POEMS  ON  OHIO 


COLLECTED  AND  ANNOTATED 

By  C.  L.  MARTZOLFF 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  OHIO  STATE  ARCHAEOLOGICAL 
AND  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY 


COLUMBUS.  OHIO 

F.  J.  HEER  PRINTING   COMPANY 

1911 


FXCHANGE 


POEMS  ON  OHIO. 


BACK  IN  OLD  OHIO\ 

Pardon,  stranger,  did  you  say  you're  from  Ohio  ?     Shake. 

Born  there,  was  you  ?     Well,  I  guess  we're  'bout  of  the  same 

make, 
An'  I'm  mighty  glad  to  see  you,  stranger,  for  the  sake 
Of  the  love  I  bear  to  old  Ohio. 

What  is  that?     You're  from  the  hills?    Well,  shake  again,  by  Jo! 
From  the  hills  along  the  river,  where  the  buckeyes  grow. 
I  hain't  been  there,  I  guess,  since  twenty  years  ago, 
But  my  heart  is  full  of  old  Ohio. 

Down  the  river !     Fished  there  many  a  summer  afternoon. 
Sat  and  dreamed  there,  too,  on  many  a  balmy  night  m  June, 
Lookin'  o'er  the  water  where  I  see  the  risin"  moon 
Smilin'  white  across  the  old  Ohio.    -    ,  ,  ^ 

Twenty  years  a  schemin'  in  among  the  crowds  of  men ! 
Twenty  years!     Fve  seen  a  heap  of  this  world  since  then, 
But  tonight  Fd  kind  o'  like  to  wander  back  agin, 
Back  among  the  hills  of  old  Ohio. 

Sweetest  times  are  the  old  times,  like  them  we  used  to  know ! 
Sweetest  scenes  an'  sweetest  dreams  are  them  of  long  ago ; 
When  we  sat  upon  the  banks  and  listened  to  the  flow 
Of  the  waves  along  the  old  Ohio. 

Still  her  spell  is  on  me,  an'  her  music's  in  my  ears. 
Still  her  beauty  shines  to  me,  although  it  be  through  tears, 
Still  my  heart  goes  back  to  her  across  the  gap  of  years, 
Back  unto  the  scenes  of  old  Ohio. 


*This   anonymous   poem   appeared   in    The  Ohio  Magazine,  January, 
1907. 

(1) 


2  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

Ain't  no  better  State  than  that  upon  God's  rollin'  earth; 
Ain't  no  better  people  ever  got  this  side  of  birth, 
Of  more  real  bottom  an'  more  energy  an'  worth. 
Than  the  folks  that's  raised  in  old  Ohio. 

Boastin'  am  I?     Well,  that's  a  Buckeye's  failin';  but 
State  of  Garfield,  Grant  and  Sherman's  got  a  right  to  strut, 
Read  the  names  of  soldiers  an'  of  statesmen  that  were  cut 
On  the  shaft  of  Fame  by  old  Ohio. 

Mighty  glad  to  see  you,  stranger,  does  a  feller  good ; 
Fills  him  with  a  sentiment  of  kin  an'  brotherhood  ; 
Makes  him  feel  as  if  he'd  met  a  feller  "of  the  blood," 
When  he  strikes  a  man  from  old  Ohio. 

Sweetest  times  are  the  old  times,  the  days  of  long  ago, 
Sweetest  scenes  an'  sweetest  dreams  are  them  we  used  to  know. 
On  the  hills  along  the  river  where  the  buckeyes  grow, 
■■;-;Ifi  the  Royal.' ;Sitai;e  of  old  Ohio. 


IMPERIUM  IN  IMPERIO. 

By  Nellie  Grant,  Oak  Harbor,  O.^ 

On  that  fair  morn  when  Liberty  awakened 

To  view  the  thralldom  of  the  eastern  world. 

She  pushed  across  the  ocean  westward — 

There  placed  her  standard  and  her  flag  unfurled. 

There  to  a  home  of  freedom  and  of  plenty 

She  beckoned  the  oppressed  of  all  the  earth : 

They  came,  of  every  tongue,  of  all  conditions ; 
And  thus  a  wondrous  nation  had  its  birth. 


"  This  Ohio  Appreciation  was  written  at  the  Ottawa  County  Teachers' 
Institute,  by  Miss  Grant,  a  teacher.  It  was  inspired  by  hearing  the 
Editor's  Lecture  on  "Ohio  and  the  Ohioans." 


Poems  on   Ohio. 

But  as  the  goddess  viewed  the  growing  empire — 

She  musing  said,  "Among  these  states  most  blest 

Will  I  erect  one  greater  than  all  the  others, 
And  make  it  type  of  all  the  rest." 

She  chose  a  tract  between  a  lake  and  river, 

That  lay  apart  like  westward  opening  gates ; 

And  there  upon  the  hills,  within  the  valleys 
Arose  Ohio-best  of  all  the  states. 


WESTERN  SCENERY. 

By  Ephraim  Peabody.     (1807-56.)^ 

Morn  on  the  Alleghanies !  on  their  side 

Crossing  a  rocky  promontory's  brow. 

That  juts  out  o'er  the  wilderness  below, 

A  band  of  emigrants  may  be  descried. 

Dawn  on  the  mountains !     Gloriously  the  morn 

Purples  along  the  seat.     The  stars  are  shorn 

And  struggle  forward  with  thin  rays  and  white, 

Then  fade  and  vanish  in  the  advancing  light. 

O'er  the  far  forest  line,  the  herald  beams 

Of  morning  upward  blaze  in  rushing  streams ; 

And  the  imperial  sun  as  he  ascends 

His  sceptered  rays  extends 

To  the  far  summits  that  to  heaven  aspire — 

And  at  the  touch  they  glow  with  heaven's  own  fire. 

The  awakening  mountain  breezes  lift 

The  mists  that  hang  in  the  deep  vales,  and  drift 


^Ephraim  Peabody,  D.  D.,  was  a  native  of  Wilton,  N.  H.,  graduated 
at  Bowdoin  College,  1827,  and  subsequently  studied  theology  at  Cam- 
bridge; pastor  of  a  Unitarian  church  in  Cincinnati,  1831-38;  pastor  New 
Bedford,  1838-46;  minister  King's  Chapel,  Boston,  1846  until  his  death. 
During  his  life  time  he  published  a  number  of  occasional  sermons,  essays, 
poems,  etc.,  three  articles  in  North  American  Review  (1829),  and  a  dis- 
course   delivered   at   the   centennial   celebration,    1840. 


Ohio  Arch,   and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

Their  folds,  now  fiery,  and  now  dark,  aloft — 
They  rise — scattered  and  thin  and  soft — 
The  incense  of  these  mountain  altars — to  the  clear 
Blue  dome  of  heaven  and  disappear. 
As  touched  by  Prospero's  wand,  a  wide  expanse 
Opens  at  once  upon  their  backward  glance ; 
Far  down  a  circling  vale,  wherein  the  might 
Of  nations  could  do  battle  for  a  nation's  right ; 
Around — heights  over  heights  the  vale  embrace. 
Like  levels  round  some  vast  arena's  space. 
And  far  beyond,  the  clouds  around  them  furled 
Heaves    each    long   mountain    range — a    rampart    of    the 
world. 

Upon  the  naked  promontory's  brow 

That  overhung  the  wilderness  b'elow, 

The  travelers  paused  to  look  upon  the  scene. 

The  wife  upon  her  husband's  arm  did  lean, 

And  he  upon  his  rifle  silently. 

Hushed  even  was  happy  Childhood's  morning  glee. 

The  vastness  of  the  scene  weighed  down  the  sense, 

The  man  felt  nothing  but  his  impotence, 

And  His  supremacy  who  reigns  alone, 

"The  earth  his  footstool  and  the  heavens  His  throne." 

Sublimest  was  the  awful  silence  there 

Hushing  the  very  progress  of  the  air, 

Through  the  deep  vale  below  a  river  flowed, 

Falling  at  times  in  silver  sheets — then  hid 

The  overhanging  wilderness  amid — 

Now  hurrying  'tween  the  jagged  rocks  and  rude; 

Yet  not  a  murmur  rose  to  where  they  stood. 

The  infrequent  clouds  drifted  across  the  sky 

Ever  and  ever  floating  silently. 

Upon  the  topmost  crag,  splintered  and  bare. 

Its  angles  glittering  in  the  morning's  glare 

With  an  unsteady  wing 

And  naked  talons  balancing, 


Poems  on   Ohio. 

An  eagle  sat  and  screamed  to  the  silence ; — hill 
And  wood  and  silent  cloud  echoed  his  accents  shrill. 


THE  WEST.* 

By  William  D.  Gallagher.     (1808-1894.)" 

Broad  plains — blue  waters — hills  and  valleys, 
That  ring  with  anthems  of  the  free ! 

Brown-pillared  groves  with  green-arched  alleys, 
That  Freedom's  holiest  temples  be! 

These  forest  aisles  are  full  of  story ; — 

Here  many  a  one  of  old  renown 
First  sought  the  meteor-light  of  glory, 

And  'mid  its  transient  flash  went  down. 

Historic  names  forever  greet  us 

Where'er  our  wandering  way  we  thread ; 
Familiar  forms  and  faces  meet  us — 

As  living  walk  with  us  the  dead. 

Man's  fame  so  often  evanescent, 

Links  here  with  thoughts  and  things  that  last; 
And  all  the  bright  and  teeming  Present, 
Thrills  with  the  great  and  glorious  Past. 


•  This  poem  was  written  for  Coggeshall's  "Poets  and  Poetry  of  the 
West"   (1861). 

^  Born  in  Philadelphia.  His  father  had  participated  in  the  Irish 
Rebellion  of  1803.  That  cost  Robert  Emmett  his  life.  He  died  when 
his  son  was  eight  years  of  age.  The  latter  was  apprenticed  to  a  Cin- 
cinnati printer  and  for  many  years  led  the  life  of  a  successful  journalist 
but  unsuccessful  business  man.  He  was  coimected  with  many  unsuccessful 
newspaper  ventures  in  Ohio.  His  most  important  enterprise  was  the 
publication  of  the  Hesperian,  a  monthly  miscellany  of  general  literature. 
But  three  volumes  were  published.  A  well  written  biography  of  Mr. 
Gallagher,  by  W.  H.  Venable,  appears  in  Volume  I  of  the  Ohio  Archjeo- 
logical  and  Historical   Society's  Publications. 


6  Ohio  Arch,   and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

THE  OHIO.« 

By  Littell  McClung. 

Smooth,  shining  steel  close  binds  thy  verdant  sides 
And  stretches  far  to  lofty  heights  that  stand, 

Like  sentinels,  watching  over  white-sailed  tides, 
That  bear  to  thee  the  fruits  of  every  land. 

Grim,  iron  monsters,  breathing  breath  of  steam, 
Rush  by  thy  noble  bosom's  crested  flow. 

And  smoke  of  mighty  cities  blurs  the  gleam 
That  makes  thee  silver  in  the  after-glow. 

Yet,  over  thee,  O  river  deep  and  wide. 

Fond  Romance  still  the  blush  of  beauty  rings; 

And  to  thy  dreamy  vales  where  shadows  hide. 
The  mystic  Spirit-of-the-Past  still  clings. 


THE  BUCKEYE.^ 

By  Kate  Brownlee  Sherwood.   (1841-). 

In  the  forests  of  Ohio, 
Fringing  river,  lake  and  bayou. 
Lifting  up  a  brave  sorosis 

Of  white  pedicles  of  bloom; 
And  a  flush  of  leaves  indented. 
Like  a  welcome  hand  presented. 
Comes  the  Buckeye,  prince  and  prophet. 
In  the  spring's  unquiet  gloom. 


*  Courtesy  of  The  Ohio  Magazine. 

'  Courtesy  of  The  Ohio  Magazine. 

'"No  list  of  Western  poets  would  be  complete  without  the  name  of 
Kate  Brownlee  Sherwood,  of  Toledo,  whose  patriotic  pen  gave  the  State 
and  the  Republic  those  inspiring  books,  'Camp  Fire  and  Memorial  Day 
Poems,'  and  'Dreams  of  the  .^ge,'  a  Poem  of  Columbia." —  W.  H.  Venabie. 


ocms  on 


Okie 


While  the  tardy  oaks  are  sleeping, 
And  the  lonesome  elms  are  weeping, 
And  the  maple  groves  grow  tipsy 

With  a  saccharine  delight ; 
Through  the  solemn  shades  and  hushes 
Glad  the  green-robed  prophet  rushes, 
With  a  prophecy  of  plenty 

Through  the  dusky  dreams  of  night. 

When  the  clearing  axe  was  flashing, 
And  the  migrant  teal  were  plashing, 
And  the  pioneer  looked  wistfully 

For  sign  of  bird  and  bee; 
He  beheld  his  promised  summer 
In  the  prophet,  earliest  comer. 
And  said,  "Buckeye,  brave  and  bounteous, 

My  sign  and  symbol  be." 

Then  the  children's  hearts  grew  merry, 
As  they  searched  for  bud  and  berry, 
And  they  carried  home  the  blossoms 

To  the  mother  sweet  and  calm ; 
And  the  lads  went  gaily,  going 
To  the  seeding  and  the  sowing. 
And  the  maidens  sifted  poppies 

Through  long  rows  of  sage  and  balm. 

Sturdy  Buckeye,  live  and  flourish ! 

Let  a  mighty  people  nourish 

In  their  groves  and  in  their  gardens 

All  thy  beauties,  emblem  tree ! 
Toss  thy  plumes  when  spring  comes  waking, 
Valiant  souls  to  action !    Taking 
From  thy  courage  inspiration — 

Flower  and  fruitage  follow  thee. 


Ohio  Arch,   and  Hist.   Society   Publications. 

THE  OHIO. 

By  Sarah  Louisa  P.  Smith."  (1811-1832.) 

The  moonlight  sleeps  upon  thy  shores, 

Fair  river  of  the  West ! 
And  the  soft  sound  of  dipping  oars 

Just  breaks  thy  evening  rest. 
Full  many  a  bark  its  silver  path 

Is  tracing  o'er  thy  tide ; 
And  list,  the  sound  of  song  and  laugh 

Floats  onward  where  they  glide. 
They're  from  light  hearts,  those  sounds  so  gay. 

Whose  home  and  hopes  are  here 
But  one  whose  home  is  far  away 

Their  music  fails  to  cheer. 

The  woods  of  Indiana  frown 

Along  the  distant  shore, 
And  send  their  deep  black  shadows  down 

Upon  the  glassy  floor ; 
Many  a  tree  is  blooming  there  — 

Mid  flowers  o'er  spread  the  ground, 
And  thousand  vines  of  foliage  rare 

The  trunks  are  wreathed  around. 
But  though  the  summer  robe  is  gay 

On  every  hill  and  tree, 
The  gray  woods  rising  far  away 

Are  fairer  still  to  me. 


"  Mrs.  Smith  was  the  grand-daughter  of  Major-General  Hull,  who 
surrendered  Detroit  in  the  War  of  1812.  Her  maiden  name  was  Sarah 
Louisa  P.  Hickman.  She  was  born  in  Detroit.  At  an  early  age  she  began 
writing  verses,  much  to  the  delight  of  the  family.  She  received  her 
education  at  Newton,  Massachusetts.  In  her  eighteenth  year  her  marriage 
with  Samuel  Jenks  Smith,  an  editor  of  Providence,  Rhode  Island,  oc- 
curred. Her  husband  in  the  same  year  published  a  volume  of  her  poems. 
In  1829  she  moved  to  Cincinnati  where  she  continued  her  writings  on 
various  themes.  Her  health  now  went  into  decline  and  on  a  visit  to  New 
York  City  she  died,  in  the  twenty-first  year  of  her  age. 


Poems  on   Ohio. 

Yon  cloudless  moon  tonight  looks  down 

Upon  no  lovelier  sight, 
Than  the  river  winding  proudly  on  — 

Yet,  beautiful  in  might ; 
Onward  still  to  the  mighty  West 

Where  the  prairie  wastes  unfold, 
Where  the  Indian  chieftain  went  to  rest 

As  his  last  war-signal  rolled. 
No  —  never  arched  the  blue  skies  o'er 

A  wave  more  fair  and  free  — 
But  the  stream  around  my  mother's  door 

Is  dearer  far  to  me. 


TO  THE  LITTLE  MIAMI  RIVER. 

By  William  H.  Venable.     (i836-)^** 

Romantic  the  rocky  and  fern-scented  regions, 
Miami,  the  grots  where  thy  brambles  begin. 

By  cedars  and  hemlocks,  in  evergreen  legions, 
With  silence  and  twilight  seclusion  shut  in. 

There  darkling  recesses  in  miniature  mountains 
Recall  to  my  fancy  the  haunts  of  the  gnome ; 

There  fabled  Undina  might  rise  from  the  fountains, 
Or  sport  in  the  water-falls  glistening  foam. 


'"  William  Henry  Venable,  born  in  Warren  County,  Ohio,  graduated 
at  National  Normal  University  in  1860 ;  taught  in  Lebanon  Normal 
School  and  later  was  principal  Jennings  Academy,  Indiana ;  professor 
natural  sciences  1802-81  ;  principal  and  proprietor  1881-6,  Chickering 
Institution ;  professor  English  Literature,  Hughes  High  School,  1889-90  ; 
Walnut  Hills  High  School  later;  Author  History  of  United  States  1872 ; 
June  on  the  Miami,  1872 ;  The  Teacher's  Dream,  1881 ;  Melodies  of  the 
Heart,  1865 ;  Footprints  of  the  Pioneers,  1888 ;  Beginning  of  Literary 
Culture  in  Ohio  Valley,  1891 ;  John  Hancock,  Educator,  1892 ;  Tales 
from  Ohio  History,  1896;  Dream  of  Empire,  1901;  Tom  Tad,  1902: 
Saga  of  the  Oak,  1904. 


10  Ohio  Arch,   and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

Now  laughing  in  ripples  and  dancing  the  sedges, 
Now  fretting  the  minnows  in  eddy  and  whirl, 

Now  kissing  the  pebbles  that  sprinkle  thy  edges, 

And  laving  the  pearl   and   the  mother-of-pearl ; 

Glide,  whispering  now  under  sycamore  shadow. 
Now  singing  by  hamlet  and  cottage  and  mill. 

Now  shimmering  onward  through  flowery  meadow, 
Now  glassing  the  image  of  foresty  hill. 

The  farm  boy  as  careless  he  follows  the  harrow 

O'er  lowlands  which  quicken  and  ripen  the  maize, 

Reads  oft  in  some  token  of  stone — axe  or  arrow. 
The  wars  and  the  loves  of  unchronicled  days. 

Then  steals  on  the  air  with  thy  murmuring  numbers 
A  moan  of  lament   for  a  race  and  its  lore, — 
A  sigh  for  yon  chieftan  forgotten,  who  slumbers 
Beneath  the  lone  mound  on  thy  emerald  shore. 


THE  BUCKEYE. 

By  Alice  Williams  Brotherton.^^ 

The  rose  and  the  thistle  and  the  shamrock  green 
And  the  leek  are  the  flowers  of  Britain ; 

The  fleur-de-lys  on  the  flag  of  France 
In  a  band  of  blood  is  written ; 


"  Alice  Williams  Brotherton,  born  at  Cambridge,  Indiana,  cdncated 
at  a  Cincinnati  High  School.  After  her  marriage  she  continued  to  live 
in  this  city.  She  has  contributed  to  The  Century,  The  Atlantic  Monthly, 
and  other  periodicals.  She  published  a  book  of  verse  in  1886,  "Beyond 
the  Veil"  in  1887,  "The  Sailing  of  King  Olaf  and  Other  Poems,"  and 
"What  the  Wind  Told  the  Tree-Tops"  (prose  and  verse,  1888).  Mrs. 
Brotherton  is  a  prominent  club-woman  of  Cincinnati.  For  some  years 
she  has  made  a  close  study  of  Shakespeare  and  other  literary  topics. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  11 

But  what  shall  we  claim  for  our  own  fair  land, 

What  flower  for  our  own  fair  token  ? 
The  golden  rod?  or  the  tasseled  maize? 

For  each  has  its  own  bard  spoken. 

Oh,  the  tasseled  corn  for  the  whole  broad  land, 

For  the  Union  no  power  can  sever ; 
But  the  buckeye  brown  for  the  Buckeye  State 

Shall  be  our  badge  forever. 

Like  twisted  thorns  are  the  waving  plumes 

Of  the  buckeye  blossom  yellow, 
The  buckeye  leaf  is  an  open  hand 

To  greet  either  foe  or  fellow  ; 
And  brown  as  the  eyes  of  the  antlered  deer. 

Is  the  fruit  from  the  branches  shaken, 
Of  the  sturdy  tree  that  in  Buckeye  hearts 

Can  a  loyal  throb  awaken. 
Oh,  the  tasseled  corn  for  the  whole  broad  land 

For  the  Union  no  power  can  sever ; 
But  the  buckeye  brown  for  the  Buckeye  State 

Shall  be  our  badge  forever. 

Oh,  the  stalwart  oak  and  the  bristling  pine 

And  the  beech  are  a  stately  trio; 
But  dearer  to  me  is  the  spreading  tree 

That  grows  by  the  fair  Ohio. 
The  buckeye  tree  with  its  branches  broad. 

Its  burr  with  the  brown  fruit  laden, 
Is  the  dearest  tree  that  springs  from  the  sod, 

To  the  Buckeye — man  or  maiden. 

Oh,  the  tasseled  corn  for  the  whole  broad  land 

For  the  Union  no  power  can  sever ; 
But  the  buckeye  brown  for  the  Buckeye  State 

Shall  be  our  badge  forever. 


12  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

TO  THE  OHIO  RIVER. 

By  William  Dana  Emerson.     (1813-1891.)' 

Flow  on,  majestic  river! 

A  mightier  bids  thee  come, 
And  join  him  on  his  radiant  way, 
To  seek  an  ocean  home ; 
Flow  on  amid  the  vale  and  hill. 
And  the  wide  west  with  beauty  fill. 

I  have  seen  thee  in  the  sunlight, 

With  the  summer  breeze  at  play, 
When  a  million  sparkling  jewels  shone 
Upon  thy  rippled  way; 
How  fine  a  picture  of  the  strife 
Between  the  smiles  and  tears  of  life ! 

I  have  seen  thee  when  the  storm  cloud 

Was  mirrored  in  thy  face, 
And  the  tempest  started  thy  white  waves 
On  a  merry,  merry  race; 
And  I've  thought  how  little  sorrow's  wind 
Can  stir  the  deeply  flowing  mind. 

I  have  seen  thee  when  the  morning 
Hath  tinged  with  lovely  bloom 
Thy  features,  waking  tranquilly 
From  night's  romantic  gloom; 
If  every  life  had  such  a  morn, 
It  were  a  Messing  to  be  born ! 


^  Mr.  Emerson  was  born  in  Marietta  and  graduated  at  the  Ohio 
University,  Athens,  in  1833.  After  leaving  college  he  taught  school  in 
Kentucky  and  in  Illinois.  Returning  to  Ohio  he  studied  law  and  did  a 
limited  practice  in  Cincinnati.  His  inclinations  being  of  a  decided  literary 
turn  he  turned  his  attention  to  literature.  His  brother  brought  out  for 
him,  in  1850,  a  volume  of  his  poems.  At  his  death  it  was  found  that 
he  had  left  to  his  Alma  Mater  one  thousand  dollars,  the  income  of  which 
was  to  be   prize  money   for   poems   written   by  the   students.     This    fund 


Poems  on  Ohio.  13 

And  when  the  evening  heavens 

Were  on  thy  canvas  spread, 
And  wrapt  in  golden  splendor,  Day 
Lay  beautiful  and  dead; 
Thus  sweet  were  man's  expiring  breath. 
Oh,  who  would  fear  the  embrace  of  death! 

And  when  old  Winter  paved  thee 
For  the  fiery  foot  of  youth ; 
And  thy  soft  waters  underneath 
Were  gliding  clear  as  truth ; 
So  off  an  honest  heart  we  trace 
Beneath  a  sorrow  frozen  face. 

And  when  thou  wert  a  chaos 
Of  crystals  thronging  on. 
Till  melted  by  the  breath  of  spring, 

Thou  bidst  the  steamers  run ;  .y); 

Then  thousands  of  the  fair  and  free  /. 

Were  swiftly  borne  along  on  thee.  '    .\  ' 

But  now  the  sun  of  summer 

Hath  left  the  sand-bars  bright. 
And  the  steamer's  thunder  and  his  fires 
No  more  disturb  the  night  ; 
Thou  seemest  like  those  fairy  streams 
We  sometimes  meet  wdth  in  our  dreams. 


is  known  as  the  Emerson  Prize  Poem  Fund.  The  following  is  a  stanza 
taken  from  one  of  Mr.  Emerson's  poems,  in  which  he  recalls  his 
college  days : 

Sweet  Athens !  the  home  of  learning  and  beauty, 

How  I  long  for  thy  hills  and  rich,  balmy  air ; 
For  thy  wide-spreading  greens,  smiling  sweetly  on  duty, 

And  the  valley  beneath,  and  the  stream  wending  there  ; 
On  the  North  the  high  rock,  on  the  South  the  lone  ferry. 

The  ville  on  the  East  and  the  mill  on  the  West; 
The  lawn  where  the  gravest  at  play  hour  were  merry. 

And  the  walks  by  the  footstep  of  beauty  made  blest. 


14  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

How  Spring  has  decked  the  forest ! 

That  forest  kneels  to  thee; 
And  the  long  canoe  and  the  creaking  skiff, 
Are  stemming  thy  current  free ; 
Thy  placid  marge  is  fringed  with  green, 
Save  where  the  villas  intervene. 

Again  the  rush  of  waters 

Unfurls  the  flag  of  steam. 

And  the  river  palace  in  its  pomp, 

Divides  the  trembling  stream; 

Thy  angry  surges  lash  the  shore 

Then  sleep  as  sweetly  as  before. 

Then  Autumn  pours  her  plenty 

And  makes  thee  all  alive, 
With  floating  barks  that  show  how  well 
Thy  cultured  valleys  thrive; 
The  undressing  fields  yield  up  their  grain, 
To  dress  in  richer  robes  again. 

Too  soon  thy  brimming  channel 

Has  widened  to  the  hill, 
As  if  the  lap  of  wealthy  plain 
With  deeper  wealth  to  fill ; 
Oh,  take  not  more  than  thou  dost  give, 
But  let  the  toil  worn  cotter  live. 

Oh.  could  I  see  thee  slumber, 

As  thou  wast  wont  of  yore. 
When  the  Indian  in  his  birchen  bark 
Sped  lightly  from  the  shore ; 
Then  fiery  eyes  gleamed  through  the  wood, 
And  thou  wast  often  tinged  with  blood. 

The  tomahawk  and  arrow. 

The  wigwam  and  the  deer, 
Made  up  the  red  man's  little  world. 

Unknown  to  smile  or  tear; 


Poems   on    Ohio.  15 

The  spire,  the  turret  and  the  tree 
Then  mingled  not  their  shades  on  thee. 

Now  an  hundred  youthful  cities 
Are  gladdened  by  thy  smile, 
And  thy  breezes  sweetened  through  the  fields, 
The  husbandman  beguile ; 
Those   fields   were   planted  by   the  brave, — 
Oh,  let  not  fraud  come  near  their  grave. 

Roll  on,  my  own  bright  river, 

In  loveliness  sublime ; 
Through  every  season,  every  age. 
The  favorite  of  Time ! 
Would  that  my  soul  could  with  thee  roam, 
Through  the  long  centuries  to  come ! 

I  have  gazed  upon  thy  beauty. 

Till  my  heart  is  wed  to  thee; 
Teach  it  to  flow  o'er  life's  long  plain. 

In  tranquil  majesty;  '.-i 

Its  channel  growing  deep  and  wide — 
May  Heaven's  own  sea  receive  its  tide! 


LA  BELLE  RIVIERE. 

By  Anna  Ricky  Roberts.     (1827-1858.)^^ 

Beautiful  river!  on  thy  placid  stream 

The  Indian's  light  canoe  is  seen  no  more, 

Gliding  as  swiftly  as  a  winged  dream. 

Parting  the  waters  with  his  flashing  oar ; 

The  hills  slow  rising  from  each  wood-fringed  shore, 
Are  mirrored  in  thy  calm  pellucid  wave, 


"  Anna  Ricky  Roberts  was  a  native  of  Cincinnati.  In  1857  her  poems 
appeared  under  the  caption  of  "Forest  Flowers  of  the  West."  She 
married  Mr.  Roberts  in  1852  and  went  to  Philadelphia  to  live. 


16  Ohio  Arch,   and   Hist.   Society  Publications. 

Whose  rippling  pours  a  requiem  as  it  rolls, 
In  softened  murmurs  by  the  humble  grave 

Of  that  brave  hardy  band  who  sleep  unknown, 

Their  resting  place  unmarked  by  monumental  stone. 

And  they,  the  rangers  of  the  broad  domain. 

Lords  of  the  forest,  hold  no  longer  sway; 
Thy  native  children  come  not  back  again, 

All,  all,  have  vanished  like  the  dew  away; 
Or,  like  the  summer  leaves  that  I  have  tossed 

Upon  thy  sun-lit  wave,  a  moment  seen 
Whirling  along  the  current  and  then  lost 

Leaving  no  lingering  trace  of  what  hath  been, 
No  mark  to  tell  upon  life's  ceaseless  river. 

That  they  have  passed  from  its  dark  tide  forever. 

Within  thy  noble  forest  now  is  heard 

The  sound  of  ringing  axe :  the  silence  ne'er 
Was  broken  save  by  the  sweet  wild  bird. 

Or  gentle  footfall  of  the  timid  deer, 
Before  the  bold,  undaunted  pioneer 

Had  sought  the  land  of  promise,  the  far  West, 
And  made  thy  lonely  shore  his  dwelling  place. 

And  reared  a  home  within  its  fertile  breast. 
And  filled  it  with  the  sounds  of  busy  life, 

With  all  its  cares,  its  pleasures,  and  its  strifes. 

Thy  hills  re-echo  to  the  cheerful  sound 

Of  pealing  church-bells  and  the  merry  hum 
Of  busy  hands  and  voices ;  and  around 

Thy  shores  are  gathered  many  who  have  come 
As  wanderers  seeking  for  a  place  of  rest, 

A  peaceful  home  upon  the  fertile  soil, 
Where  labor  is  with  plenty  ever  blessed, 

Where  wealth  awaits  the  hardy  hands  that  toil, 
And  Freedom's  sun  with  soul-inspiring  beam, 

Gilds  the  fair  bosom  of  thy  noble  stream. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  17 


OLD  ERIE. 


Old  Erie,  thy  billows  have  crumbled  the  shore, 
And  scattered  its  frail  shifting  sands ; 

For  ages  thy  life-freighted  winds  have  blown  o'er 
This  dearest,  this  loveliest  of  lands. 

Though  fierce  be  the  wrath  of  this  turbulent  breast, 
When  storms  ride  thy  foam-crested  wave, 

We  love  thy  rude  temptests ;  we  love  thy  calm  rest ; 
Thy  sweet  benediction  we  crave. 

Our  hero  behold  thou,  this  blest  Eden  land, 

The  fruit  of  thy  tenderest  love, 
The  years  since  thy  shallop  first  touched  our  wild  strand 

Are  crowned  with  rich  gifts  from  above. 

Gaze  thou  on  old  Erie,  by  Time's  restless  tide. 

Borne  on  until  lost  in  the  sea. 
Not  thus  were  thy  memory ;  that  shall  abide 

In  this  land  of  the  brave  and  the  free. 


LINES  WRITTEN  ON  MOUNT  LOGAN/^ 

By  William   Edward  Gilmore.     (1824-1908.)^® 

Ye  who  love  only  Nature's  wildest  form : 
The  desolate  rock,  the  desolating  storm; 
The  toppling,  crackling  avalanche  of  snow, 
Threat'ning  with  ruin  all  the  plain  below. 


"  This  poem  was  quoted  in  an  historical  address,  delivered  at  the 
unveiling  of  a  statue  to  Edward  Paine,  the  founder  of  Painesville,  in 
that  city,  July  -,  1901.  "Our  hero  behold  thou,"  etc.,  no  doubt  refers 
to  Gen.  Paine. 

"  Mt.  Logan  is  represented  on  the  Ohio  Seal,  since  it  was  this  range 
of  hills  that  suggested  the  device.     It  is  near  Chillicothe. 

"Colonel  William  Edward  Gilmore  was  born  at  Chillicothe,  Ohio. 
He  attended  Ohio  University,  Athens,  Ohio,  from  1839  to  1841,  when  he 
2 


18  Ohio  Arch,   and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

Where  the  poor  peasant  from  the  chilly  soil, 
Wrings  half  a  maintenance  with  double  toil; 
The  beetling  crag  out- jutting  from  the  shore, 
Where  ocean  chafes  with  everlasting  roar. 
Mindless  how  oft  the  drowning  sailor's  wail 
Has  mingled  there  with  winter's  whistling  gale; 
Who,  with  romantic  affectation,  call 
The  dreary,  lifeless  deserts  beautiful. 
Where  bleaching  bones  of  perished  pilgrims  lay 
Pointing  the  future  caravan  its  way; 
Go,  find  such  scenes  where  Libian  sands  are  spread, 
Or  huge  Mont  Blanc  uprears  its  glittering  head. 
Or  Scylla  frowns,  the  sailor's  constant  dread. 
But  thou,  O  gentler  tourist,  who  dost  feel 
A  purer  pleasure  o'er  thy  spirit  steal. 
When  softer  landscapes  open  to  thy  view 
Their  endless  novelties  of  form  and  hue ; 
Come  wander  here  with  pensive  step  and  slow. 
Where  sweet  Scioto's  silver  waters  flow. 
And  smiling  Nature  owns  how  kind  a  God 
Gave  man  this  bright  and  beautiful  abode. 


took  up  the  study  of  law.  In  1843  he  entered  Lane  Theological  Seminary, 
from  which  he  graduated  in  1846,  when  he  resumed  the  study  of  law, 
graduating  from  the  Cincinnati  Law  School  in  1848.  He  took  an  active 
interest  in  the  anti-slavery  contest.  Upon  the  breaking  out  of  the  Civil 
War  he  organized  no  less  than  six  companies  of  volunteers.  His  mind 
had  a  poetic  bent  and  during  the  latter  years  of  his  life  his  poetic  writ- 
ings were  numerous  and  meritorious.  He  was  a  great  reader  and  student 
of  literature,  and  had  at  command  a  large  fund  of  general  information. 
Among  his  literary  productions  may  be  named  "Life  of  Ohio's  First 
Governor,  Edward  Tiffin,"  and  innumerable  political  and  historical  sketches 
and  fugitive  poems  contributed  to  various  magazines  and  papers  through- 
out his  long  life. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  19 

SUNSET  ON  THE  OHIO  RIVER. 

By  Chambers  Baird.^^ 
I 

In  the  Valley. 

Aslant  the  glowing  flood  the  sun-fires  fall, 

Tingeing  with  mirrored  gleam  th'  enthralling  hills, 
Past  whose  fair  slopes  the  tide  streams  as  it  wills. 

In  winding  flow,  to  lave  that  pageant  wall 

Of  cloud-furled  sky,  that  far  illuming  all. 

Its  gorgeous  tinted  splendor  sheds,  and  fills 
The  fervent  landscape  with  rich-lustred  thrills 

Of  color  lavished  past  the  painter's  call. 

Where  flamed  those  altar  fires,  the  hills  lie  browned ; 

Far  down  the  dusk,  the  states  no  longer  foes 
Stretch  faintly,  joined  in  shadow,  to  the  west. 

And  where  flushed  nature  was  with  glory  crowned, 
The  sheltering  heights  upon  the  night's  dim  breast 

Rest  outlined,  hushed  in  infinite  repose. 

II 
On  the  Heights. 

Above  the  many-voiced,  dull  murmuring  world 

I  stood,  where  from  the  upland's  crowning  crest 
I  watched  the  evening  splendors  of  the  west 

In  gorgeous,  passionate  pageantry  unfurled; 

And  as  the  bursts  of  flame  leapt  up  and  curled 
About  the  horizon's  dome,  in  my  glad  breast 
Broke  forth  such  a  glow  of  ecstasy  unguessed. 

Whereby  were  life,  death  and  all  fate  empearled. 


"  Mr.  Baird,  a  graduate  of  Harvard  University,  is  an  attorney  at 
Ripley,  Brow^n  County,  Ohio.  The  town  of  Ripley  is  situated  in  one 
of  the  most  picturesque  regions  of  the  Ohio  Valley.  It  was  made  famous 
in  ante-bellum  days  as  a  station  on  the  "Underground  Railroad"  and  the 
home  of  Rev.  John  Rankin,  a  famous  abolitionist.  The  home  of  Rankin, 
in  which  it  is  said  a  light  burned  for  years  as  a  beacon  to  escaping 
slaves  on  the  Kentucky  shore,  is  situated  on  the  "Heights." 


20  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

All  thrilled  I  gazed  the  while  the  radiance  waned, 
Till  'gainst  the  paling  sky's  wan  cirlet-rim 
The  starlit  night's  oblivion  lapped  its  brim; 

But  mirrored  on  mine  eyes  the  glory  gained, 

And  on  my  soul  had  such  blest  rapture  dawned, 
That  I  had  almost  known  God's  peace  beyond. 


LAKE  ERIE. 

By  Ephraim  Peabody. 


These  lovely  shores!  how  lone  and  still 

A  hundred  years  ago, 
The  unbroken  forest  stood  above. 

The  waters  dashed  below  :  — 
The  waters  of  a  lonely  sea. 

Where  never  sail  was  furled 
Embosomed  in  a  wilderness 

Which  was  itself  a  world. 

A  hundred  years !  go  back ;  and  lo ! 

Where,  closing  in  the  view. 
Juts  out  the  shore,  with  rapid  oar 

Darts  round  a  frail  canoe.  — 
'Tis  a  white  voyager,  and  see 

His  prow  is  westward  set 
O'er  the  calm  wave:    hail  to  thy  bold 

World  seeking  bark,   Marquette! 

The  lonely  bird  that  picks  his  food 

Where  rise  the  waves,  and  sink, 
At  their  strange  coming,  with  shrill  scream 

Starts  from  the  sandy  brink; 
The  fish-hawk  hanging  in  mid-sky 

Floats  o'er  on  level  wing 
And  the  savage  from  his  covert  looks 

With  arrow  on  the  string. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  21 


A  hundred  years  are  past  and  gone 

And  all  the  rocky  coast 
Is  turreted  with  shining  towns, 

An  empire's  noble  boast.  — 
And  the  old  wilderness  is  changed 

To  cultured  vale  and  hill ; 
And  the  circuit  of  its  mountains 

An  empire's  numbers  fill. 


THE  OHIO.^« 

By  Ephraim  Peabody. 

Flow  on,  thou  glorious  river, 

Thy  mountain-shores  between. 

To  where  the  Mexique's  stormy  waves 

Dash  on  savannahs  green. 

Flow  on,  between  the  forests 

That  bend  above  thy  side, 

And  'neath  the  sky  and  stars  that  lie 

Mirrored  within  thy  tide. 

High  in  the  distant  mountains 

Thy  first  small  fountains  gush, 

And  down  the  steep,  through  the  ravine, 

In  shallow  rills  they  rush; 

Till  in  the  level  valley 

To  which  the  hills  descend, 

Converging   from  the  summits,  meet 

The  thousand  rills,  and  blend.  — 

And  soon  the  narrow  mountain  stream 

O'er  which  a  child  might  leap. 

Holds  on  its  course  with  a  giant's  force, 

In  a  channel  broad  and  deep. 


"This   poem   appeared   in   Gallagher's   "Poetical    Literature    of   the 
West,'  1841. 


22  Ohio  Arch,   and  Hist.   Society   Publications. 

High  up  among  the  mountains 

The  fisher  boy  is  seen, 

Alone  and  lounging  in  the  shade 

Along  the  margin  green  ; 

And  not  a  sound  disturbs  him,  save 

A  squirrel  or  a  bird. 

Or  on  the  autumn  leaves,  the  noise 

"Of  dropping  nuts  is  heard."  — 

But  here,  the  city  crowds  upon 

The  freedom  of  the  v^ave, 

And  many  a  happy  village  bank 

Thy   flowing  waters  lave. 

Upon  thy  tranquil  bosom,  floats 

An  empire's  burdened  keels, 

And  every  tributary  stream 

An  empire's  wealth  reveals. 

Flow  on,  thou  mighty  river ! 

High-road  of  nations,  flow ! 

And  thou  shalt  flow,  when  all  the  woods 

Upon  thy  sides  are  low. 

Yes,  thou  shalt  float  eternally. 

Though  on  thy  peopled  shore, 

The  rising  town  and  dawning  state 

Should  sink  to  rise  no  more. 

Though  on  the  hills  were  heard  no  more 

A  human  step  or  sound,  — 

Though  they  were  a  dead  empire's  mound; 

Still  onward  shall  thy  current  be, 

Thou  image  of  eternity 

Onward  and  onward  to  the  sea. 


Poems   on   Ohio.  23 

THE  BUCKEYE  TREE. 

Dr.  William  H.  Venable. 

"When  blue  birds  glance  the  sun-lit  wing, 
And  pipe  the  praise  of  dancing  spring, 
Like  some  gay  sylvan  prince,  and  bold. 
The  Buckeye  dons  his  plumes  of  gold. 

When  truants  angle  in  the  sun, 
Or  roam  the  wood  with  dog  and  gun, 
How  tuneful  sounds  the  honeyed  tree, 
Hummed  round  by  the  melodious  bee. 

When  boisterous  Autumn  dashes  down 
Imperial   Summer's  rustling  crown, 
Beneath  the  scattered  spoils  we  find 
The  polished  nut  in  bronzen  rind. 

The  Buckeye  brooms,  in  times  of  yore, 
Swept  for  the  dance  the  puncheon  floor; 
The  backwoods  beaux,  hilarious  souls. 
Quaffed  sangaree  from  Buckeye  bowls. 

The  friendly  Buckeye  leaves  expand. 
Five-fingered,  like  an  open  hand, 
Of  love  and  brotherhood  the  sign  — 
Be  welcome!     What  is  mine  is  thine. 

Historic,  now,  and  consecrate, 

The  emblem  of  a  loyal  state, 

A  symbol  and  a  sign,  behold 

Its  banners  green,  its  plumes  of  gold. 

Ohio's  sons !  their  bugles  sang, 

Their  sabers  flashed,  their  muskets  rang, 

Forever  unto  freedom  true, 

The  Buckeye  boys  in  Union  blue! 


24  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

OHIO  BEAUTIFUL.^" 

By  Osman  C.  Hooper.    (1858-) 

In  beauty  Ohio  stands  cut  from  the  forest, 
Early  rough-hewn  by  the  pioneer's  blade, 

But  chiseled  at  length  to  majestic  completeness. 
Glorious  home-land  in  sun  or  in  shade. 

Once  clad  in  the  green  of  the  forest  primeval, 
The  Indians  trod  o'er  her  hills  and  her  vales, 

And  sang  in  the  rapturous  joy  of  the  morning 

A  song  which  the  breeze  taught  the  westering  sails. 

O'er  sea  and  o'er  land  to  thy  beautiful  river, 

E'er  by  the  beckoning  benison  led, 
The  home-seekers  come,  bringing  virtue  and  vigor 

Meet    for   the    riches    thy   bounty   had    spread. 

They  felled  and  they  builded,  they  spun  and  they  planted, 
And  lo !  rose  a  State  from  the  wild-wood  austere, 


""These  beautiful  words  have  been  set  to  music  by  Dr.  R.  D.  Book, 
Corning,  O. 

Osman  Castle  Hooper  was  born  at  Alexandria,  Licking  County,  O., 
April  10,  1858,  son  of  Richard  and  Sarah  Celestia  Castle  Hooper.  Edu- 
cated in  public  schools  of  Alexandria  and  Columbus  and  at  Denison 
University,  where  he  graduated  with  the  A.  B.  degree  in  1879.  He  be- 
gan newspaper  work  the  following  year  as  telegraph  editor  of  the  Co- 
lumbus Dispatch  and  has  in  subsequent  years  served  in  reportorial  and 
editorial  capacities  on  that  paper,  the  Columbus  News  and  the  Cincin- 
nati Enquirer.  On  the  Dispatch  he  conducted  for  a  number  of  years,  in 
connection  with  other  work,  a  department  of  paragraphic  comment,  a 
feature  of  which  was  a  daily  bit  of  verse.  He  is  now  editorial  writer 
of  the  Dispatch,  member  of  the  board  of  trustees  of  his  Alma  Mater, 
member  of  the  Columbus  Y.  M.  C.  A.  board  of  directors  and  other  semi- 
public  bodies.  A  few  of  his  verses  have  been  collected  and  published 
under  the  title,  "The  Joy  of  Things."  In  1880  he  married  Miss  Josephine 
Babbitt,  of  Columbus.     They  have  one  son,  Richard  Babbitt  Hooper. 


Poems   OH   Ohio.  25 

A  lake  is  her  crown  and  her  path-way  a  river, 
And  e'er  as  she  walks  she  is  scattering  cheer. 

Her  fire-sides  have  given  new  strength  to  the  nation — 
Men  for  the  mightiest  problems  of  peace, 

And  war  heroes,  leading  their  armies  to  victory, 
Giving  to  bond-men  a  gracious  release. 

An  empire  within  a  vast  empire  of  free-men, 
Ohio  stands  binding  the  east  and  the  west, 

Her  sturdy  sons  striving  and  ever  achieving 

For  God  and  our  country  the  highest  and  best. 

CHORUS 

Ohio,  Ohio!  Fair  home-land  we  love  thee! 

Millions  of  glad  voices  give  thee  acclaim ! 
Rich  are  thy  fields  and  the  sky  blue  above  thee ! 

Ohio,  forever  enduring  thy  fame. 


ERIE. 

By  Rev.  L.  B.  Gurley.^i    (1804-1880.) 

Bright  lake  roll  on  thy  silvery  tide. 

Thy  voice  is  sweet  to  me. 
How  oft  we've  wandered  by  thy  side, 

And  heard  thy  minstrelsy. 


^  Rev.  L.  B.  Gurley,  pioneer  poet  and  preacher,  wrote  much  on  the 
legends  and  early  history  of  North-western  Ohio.  He  was  born  in  Nor- 
wich, Connecticut,  of  Irish  descent.  Some  of  his  poems  are,  "To  San- 
dusky Plains,"  "Mission  of  the  Spring,"  "Indian  Summer  on  the  San- 
dusky Plains,"  "The  Fair  Fugitive,"  "The  Setting  Stars,"  "Dred  Scott." 
A  full  account  of  Rev.  Gurley's  life  with  extracts  from  many  of  his 
poems  is  found  in  Volume  X,  Ohio  Archaeological  and  Historical  Publica- 
tions, by  Rev.  N.  B.  C.  Love,  D.  D. 


26  Ohio  Arch,   and   Hist.   Society  Publications. 

I  love  thy  loudest  thunderings, 

When  deepest  tones  are  given. 
Thou  mighty  harp  of  thousand  strings, 
Swept  by  the  hand  of  Heaven. 

Thy  breezes  fanned  my  youthful  cheek, 
Thy  waters  cooled  my  brow, 

I've  heard  thee  in  anger  speak. 
And  in  thy  murmurs  low. 


OUR  WESTERN  LAND.^^ 

By  William  D.  Gallagher. 
I. 

Ohio-peh-he-le  1^3  _  Peek-han-ne  !'*     The   pride 
Of  the  land  where  thy  waters,  O-pe-le-chen  ^^  glide. 
Though  thy  vales  and  the  hills  in  the  distance,  that  loom 
Till  they're  part  of  the  azure,  or  lost  in  the  gloom. 
Have  long  been  the  homes  of  the  noble  and  brave, 
Whose  proud  halls  are  built  on  the  Indian's  grave,  — 
Yet  seldom  the  poet  has  made  thee  his  theme, 
Ohio-peh-he-le !  all  beautiful  stream! 

And  he  who  now  thy  name  would  twine 

With  his  and  poesy's  and  wed 
Them  thus,  knows  not  that  e'er  his  line. 

Save  on  thy  borders  shall  be  read. 
Yet  on  thy  shore  his  boyhood  dreams 

Have  passed,  and  manhood's  truths  come  on ; 
And  here  have  flashed  those  glorious  gleams 
Of  Phantasit,  whose  light  has  won 


"  This  poem  appeared  in  Gallagher's  "Erato,"  Number  II,  published 
an  1835. 

^  "Ohio-peh-he-le" — very  white    frothy  water. 
"  "Peek-han-ne,"   deep   and  white  stream. 
*  O-pe-le-chen.  bright,  shining. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  27 

His  yearning  heart  from  worldly  things, 
And  led  it  to  the  spirit's  springs. 
And  in  the  deep  and  solemn  shades 

Hath  he  communed  with  those,  whose  page 
The  deathless  fore  of  song  pervades  — 

The  master  minds  of  many  an  age. 
And  here  have  hopes  been  formed  and  crushed 

And  wearying  trials,  ill  repaid; 
And  cheering  tones  in  death  been  hushed ; 

And  those  who  when  his  feet  have  strayed. 
Between  him  and  his  danger  rushed, 

Are  gone;  and  kindred  have  been  laid 
Forever  in  the  silent  tomb. 

Fair  stream !  I  love  thee  —  and  thy  gloom 
Of   forest  and  thy  strength  of  soil  — 

Thy  wild  and  beetling  rocks,  that,  flung 
Unfashioned  from  Creation's  hand. 
Loom  in  mid-heaven  —  where  eagles  toil, 

And  build  and  rear  their  screaming  young. 
By  earthquakes  rocked,  by  tempest  fanned ! 

n. 

Ohio-Pechen  !  =«     Belle  Riviere  l^^ 
For  beauty  none  with  thee  compare, 
How  bright  thou  first  break'st  on  the  view, 

Where  dark  Monongah's  waters  woo 
Fair  Alleghany's,  wild  and  free. 
Behold  the  clear  stream's  coquetry ! 
The  more  'tis  wooed  and  pressed,  the  more 
It  feigns  to  love  its  pebbly  shore; 
Retreating  still,  but  still  so  fair. 
Much  may  the  wooing  water  dare. 
That  they  the  self  same  bed  may  share. 


^  "Ohio-pe-chen,"  it  is  of  a  white  color. 
""Belle-riviere,"  beautiful  river. 


28  Ohio  Arch,   and   Hist.   Society   Publications. 

Still  strives  she  that  it  may  not  be ; 

And  still  retreats  the  embrace  to  flee 
Of  the  dark  wooer :     But  anon 

They  mingle  and  together  run  — 

The  same,  the  wooer  and  the  won. 

Thus  ye  may  see  a  bashful  bride, 

Consenting  half,  and  half  denying; 

Now  looking  love,  and  now  aside 

Turning  her  melting  eyes ;  now  flying 

Away,  all  loveliness  and  grace ; 

But  careful  still  her  blushing  face 

To  turn  to  him  she  hath  forsaken  — 
Full  willing  soon  to  be  o'ertaken; 

And  when  she  is  pursued  and  caught, 

A  thread  will  hold  her  —  as  it  ought ! 

Now,  modest  maiden-struggles  vain. 

She  blushing  yields,  until  the  twain 

Are  one,  even  as  these  mingled  waves. 

Which  part  but  at  their  ocean  graves. 

III. 

But  here,  thy  beetling  clift's  among, 
Ohio,  pause  we  in  our  song. 
Who  muses  by  the  wooing  wave? 
His  feet  are  on  the  Scotchman's  grave! 
Here  highland  clans  and  savage  hordes. 

With  giant  strength  have  madly  striven. 

And  Gaul's  and  Britain's  gory  swords 

Home  to  the  hilt  been  driven. 
Oh,  Caledonia !  blood  that  runs 

In  breast  of  thine,  is  free  and  strong ; 

And  here  thy  kilted  highland  sons, 

With  gallant  Grant,^^  fought  well  and  long: 


^'  Eight  hundred  men,  consisting  of  English  Highlanders  and  Vir- 
ginians, under  the  command  of  Major  James  Grant,  fought  a  large  body 
of  French  and  Indians,  Sept.  22,  1758.  in  the  attempt  to  capture  Fort 
Du  Quesne. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  29 


Scorning  to  yield  —  too  brave  to  turn  — 
The  spirit  theirs  of  Bannock-burn ! 
Sword,  war-club,  bayonet  and  knife. 
Were  busy  in  that  fearful  strife. 
There  was  no  quarter  —  "Head  for  head !' 
And  many  a  kilt  and  plume  were  red; 
And  many  a  clansman  slept  in  death  — 
His  blood  upon  a  stranger's  heath. 
And  thou  Virginia !  bravely  shared 

Thy  dauntless  hearts  the  bloody  fray; 
And  fiercely  fought  and  well,  and  fared 

As  soldiers  must  on  battle  day; 

The  night  came  and  around  they  lay! 


IV. 

Long,  years,  since  then  have  come  and  passed, 
Where  are  thy  forests  dark  and  vast. 

And  frowning  battlements,  Du  Quesne? 
Those  long  have  to  the  earth  been  cast ; 

For  thee,  we  look  in  vain. 
Where  frowned  the  fort  in  those  old  days. 

Now  stand  the  halls  of  industry; 
Nor  trench  nor  picket  mets  the  gaze  — 

But  the  proud  structures  of  the  free. 

Where  now  the  Indian  do  ye  see, 
Or  Frenchman  ?     Gone  —  forever  gone, 

Gaul,  savage,  fort  and  skulking-tree ! 
And  are  there  now  no  relics  ?    None  ! 
Their  works  ?    There's  "not  a  stone  on  stone !" 
Virginian  —  Briton  —  Highlander  — 
Where  is  their  honored  sepulcher? 
Around !    Ye'll  sometimes  find  a  bone ! 

Their  Names?    They  never  have  been  writ! 
The  dust  we  stand  upon  has  one  — 

And  they  are  part  of  it ! 


30  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

Yet  many  a  brave  one  hither  came, 

To  sell  his  heart's  blood  for  renown ; 

And  dreaming  of  a  warrior's  fame, 

Unshrinking  to  the  grave  went  down : 

Yet,  even  now,  yon  flower  ye  see, 

Knows  more  of  them  by  far,  than  we. 


V. 

But  not  alone  doth  Grandeur  mark, 
With  towering  hill  and  forest  dark, 

And  cloud-capp'd  cliff,  thy  shores,   fair  stream 
Rich  groves  and  sunny  isles  are  thine. 
And  quiet  vales  thy  borders  line ; 
And  on  thy  shores  the  fruitful  vine. 
And  ever  fragrant  eglantine, 
With  hazel,  haw,  and  thorn  combine 

To  form  enchanting  bow'rs  which  dream 
Of  Poet  never  hath  surpass'd. 
And  in  thy  pearly  waves  are  glass'd 

Tallest  and  most  gigantic  trees. 

And  skies  as  fair  as  Italy's. 
The  land  thou  wind'st  through  has  not 
A  mountain  pass  or  prairie  plat. 

Where  daring  deeds  have  not  been  done; 
And  every  dark  and  wooded  dell 
Some  thrilling  tale  of  blood  can  tell : 
There  a  heroic  father  fell, 

And  here  his  dauntless  son ; 
And  there,  perhaps,  a  rod  away, 
The  fettered  wife  and  mother  lay  — 

Her  infant  playing  by  her  side. 
And  she  hath  seen  her  first-born  slain, 
And  heard  the  hatchet  cleave  his  brain. 
And  watched  his  heart's  blood  flow  like  rain  — 

Her  first-born  and  her  pride. 
And  heard  her  lord's  loud  battle-cry, 
And  seen  him  bravely  do  and  die. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  31 

Spartan!  though  to  the  earth  o'erthrown, 
Still  waged  he  the  unequal  fight  — 
Still  aimed  the  deadly  fire  aright  — 
And  when  he  felt  death's  gathering  night 
Come,  dark  and  chill  and  cloud  his  sight 

Fell  back,  and  died  without  a  groan. 
Now  seiz'd  the  savage  her  prattling  child ! 
It  look'd  in  his  tattoo'd  face  and  smiled 

The  baubles  and  vermil  there  to  see. 
Loud  shrieks  that  mother  and  rends  her  hair  — 
Then  shivers  the  thongs  that  bind  her  there, 
And  begs  the  savage  her  child  to  spare ; 
But,  grinning,  he  swings  it  in  the  air. 

And  dashes  it  'gainst  a  tree ; 
Then  lays  it  quivering,  at  her  feet. 

A  frantic  moment  'tis  closely  prest. 

Unconsciously,  to  her  yearning  breast ; 
But  its  little  heart  has  ceas'd  to  beat. 
And  her  streaming  hair  is  its  winding  sheet. 

How  wild  has  grown  that  mother's  eye! 
Her  limbs  fail  and  her  brain  reels  round; 
Senseless  she  falls  upon  the  ground ; 
A  moment  and  again  she's  bound. 

Up,  mother!  they  must  fly! 
Up,  up,  they  cannot  longer  stay. 
And  thou  with  them  must  haste  away. 

Too  weak?    Then  thou  must  die! 
A  tomaliawk  swings  in  the  silent  air, 
A  dark  hand  clenches  her  tangled  hair. 
The  crown  of  her  head  is  bloody  and  bare. 
And,  dying,  alone  they  leave  her  there. 
But  hark!  in  that  dell  a  deathshot  rings, 
And  aloft  the  hindmost  savage  springs, 

And  falls  like  a  stone  to  the  ground; 
But  his  comrades  fear  the  vengeance  near  — 
And  away,  away  like  the  startled  deer 
When  the  baying  pack  are  close  in  the  rear. 

O'er  rock  and  log  they  bound. 


32  Ohio  Arch,   and  Hist.   Society  Publications. 

Their  foe  was  but  one,  a  younger  son, 

Who  had  skulked  when  the  havoc  was  first  begun; 

He  had  rifle  —  but  loads,  alas,  but  one. 

And  he  saw  his  father  and  brother  slain. 

And  the  dead  babe  thrown  at  its  mother's  feet; 
And  heard  her  plead  for  mercy  in  vain, 
And  soon  beheld  her  fettered  again. 

Death  but  not  mercy,  to  meet. 
A  knife  gleam'd  red  on  his  straining  eye, 
And  he  saw  her  scalp  lock  waved  on  high : 
Then  he  swore  that  the  last  who  lingered  should  die 

Of  that  dark  and  murderous  band. 
They  fly;  but  the  proud  scalp-bearer  is  still 
But  half  way  up  the  bordering  hill : 
Young  hero,  now  !    The  trigger  he  drew ; 
The  glen  was  filled  with  his  wild  halloo; 
And  away  the  cowardly  Indians  flew, 

As  if  hundreds  were  at  hand. 
But  he  who  had  led  those  murderers  on. 
And  paused  for  the  scalp  when  his  band  were  gone, 
Lay  cold  and  stiff  in  that  bloody  dell  — 
And  the  panther  found  him  where  he  fell. 

VL 

Ohio-Pechen !  —  Glorious  river ! 
Thy  children's  fame  shall  last  forever. 
There's  scarce  a  rod  along  thy  shore. 
Where  grappled  not  in  days  of  yore, 
The  warrior  or  the  Sagamore, 

And  iron-sinewed  pioneer. 
Seldom  have  foes  so  madly  striven; 
Quarter  was  neither  asked  nor  given; 
The  white  man  placed  his  trust  in  heaven; 

The  Indian  knew  not  fear. 
And  in  thy  solemn  shades  have  met 
The  war-club  and  the  bayonet, 


Poems  oyi  Ohio.  '  33 


At  rise  of  sun ;  and  at  the  set, 
Savage  and  soldier  struggled  yet 

In  merciless  border  war. 
Who  conquered  ?     Look  around  the  scene  ! 
The  wigwam  nowhere  dots  the  green ; 
The  Indian's  days  of  power,  have  been  — 

The  white  man's,  are. 

VII. 

Old  days  are  gone ;  and  passed  away 
All  traces  of  the  Indian's  way. 
Far  other  scenes  surround  us  now ; 
In  quiet  vale,  on  mountain  brow. 

And  far  retired  in  shady  glen, 
Behold  the  dwelling  of  the  free — 
A  race  who  scorn  to  bend  the  knee, 
Save  at  the  shrine  of  God  it  be : 

Fair  women  and  brave  men. 


THE  ISLANDS  OF  ERIE.^" 

By  Robert  R.  McMeens,  M.  D.     (1820-1862.) 

The  Islands  of  Erie  arrayed  in  full  dress. 

Enrobe  the  lake  scene  with  strange  loveliness, 

As  gorgeously  decked  in  bright  verdure  they  lie, 

In  the  soft  mellow  haze  of  the  still  autumn  sky. 

No  more  brilliant  gems  though  lauded  they  be 

Ever  gleamed  'mid  the  groups  of  the  old  Grecian  sea. 


"  This  poem  was  read  at  Put-in-Bay,  September  10,  1858,  on  the 
anniversary  of  the  Battle  of  Lake  Erie.  Four  of  the  survivors  of  the 
battle  were  present.  Dr.  McMeens,  the  author,  was  a  practicing  physician 
in  Sandusky  City.  At  the  outbreak  of  the  Civil  War  he  became  a  surgeon 
in  the  Union  Army  and  died  at  Perryville,  Kentucky,  in  the  discharge  of 
his  duty.  This  poem  was  published  in  Lang's  History  of  Seneca  County, 
(1880). 


34  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

They  circle  the  storm-brewing  gates  of  the  west 
To  soothe  the  "mad  spirit"  of  Erie  to  rest 
And  lend  their  slight  forms  to  the  rage  of  the  sea 
To  shelter  the  storm-tossed  in  succoring  lee; 
Or,  like  sentinels,  seem  to  be  pointing  the  way 
To  the  harboring  arms  of  bold  "Put-in-bay." 

When  the  winds  breathless  sleep  in  their  caverns  of  peace, 

How  sylph-like  they  sit  on  the  lake's  lucent  face, 

Or  mirrored  in  beauty  on  crimson  dyed  wave 

When  the  sun  silent  sinks  in  her  gold-tinted  grave, 

And  the  purple  horizon  depends  as  a  shroud, 

Of  a  tapestried  mantle,  in  folds  of  rich  cloud. 

Then  deep'ning  so  gently  upon  the  pale  glow. 

So  somber  and  sad,  scarcely  seeming  to  know 

When  the  last  flitting  ray  of  fading  twilight 

Merges  in  darkness  and  death  gloom  of  night. 

Oh !     Islands  of  Erie,  how  many  a  scene 
Of  shipwreck  and  battle  around  you  have  been ! 
How  many  a  gallant  young  hero  went  down 
When  Perry  and  sailors  won  glorious  renown ! 
You  stand  as  proud  monuments  over  the  dead, 
Who  sleep  at  your  feet  in  their  cofifinless  bed. 
While  the  winds  shriek  or  whisper  a  requiem  sigh. 
And  the  waves  join  in  murmuring  a  fond  lullaby, 
And  the  mariner  gliding  along  by  your  side 
Recounts  all  their  deeds  with  emotions  of  pride. 

Oh,  Islands  of  beauty,  on  Erie's  broad  breast 
That  smile  in  the  sunshine  like  havens  of  rest ; 
Or  when  the  storm-god  in  his  wrath  wildly  raves, 
Like  "sisters"  of  mercy  hang  o'er  the  waves, 
E'er  bloom  in  your  freshness  as  lovely  as  now, 
To  enrapture  the  eye  and  make  the  heart  glow. 


Poems  OH  Ohio.  35 

PRE-HISTORIC  RACE.^o 

By  William  Cullen  Bryant. 

"As  o'er  the  verdant  waste  I  guide  my  steed, 

Among  the  high  rank  grass  that  sweeps  his  sides, 

The  hollow  beating  of  his  footsteps  seems 

A  sacrilegous  sound.     I  think  of  those 

Upon  whose  rest  he  tramples.    Are  they  here  — 

The  dead  of  other  days?    And  did  the  dust 

Of  those  fair  solitudes  once  stir  with  life 

And  burn  with  passion?    Let  the  mighty  mounds 

That  overlook  the  rivers,  or  that  rise 

In  the  dim  forest  crowded  with  old  oaks, 

Answer.     A  race,  that  has  long  since  passed  away, 

Built  them ;  a  disciplined  and  populous  race 

Heaped  with  long  toil,  the  earth,  while  yet  the  Greek 

Was  hewing  the  Pentelicus  to  forms 

Of  symmetry,  and  rearing  on  its  rock 

The  glittering  Parthenon.     These  ample  fields 

Nourished  their  harvests ;  here  their  herds  were  fed, 

When  haply  by  their  stalls  the  bison  lowed 

And  bowed  his  maned  shoulder  to  the  yoke 

Till  twilight  blushed  and  lovers  walked  and  wooed 

In  a  forgotten  language,  and  old  tunes, 

From  instruments  of  unremembered  form, 

Upon  the  soft  winds  a  voice.    The  red  man  came  — 

The  roaming  hunter  —  tribes  warlike  and  fierce. 

And  the  mound  builders  vanished  from  the  earth." 


Selection  from  "The  Prairies.'' 


36  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

AN  APOSTHROPHE  TO  A  MOUND. 

By  Moses  Brooks.''^    (1789-?) 

Here  stood  a  mound  erected  by  a  race 

Unknown  in  history  or  poet's  song, 
Swept  from  the  earth  nor  even  left  a  trace 

Where  the  broad  ruin  rolled  its  tide  along. 

No  hidden  chronicle  these  piles  among, 
Or  hieroglyphic  monument  survives 
To  tell  their  being's  date  or  whence  they  sprung  — 
Whether  from  Gothic  Europe's  "northern  hives". 
Or  that  devoted  land  where  the  dread  siroc  drives. 

Mysterious  pile !     O  say  for  what  designed  ? 

Have  flaming  altars  on  thy  summit  shone? 
Have  victims  bled  by  pious  rites  consigned. 

T'  appease  the  wrath  above  and  thus  atone 

For  sinful  man  to  the  eternal  throne? 
Momentous  monitor  of  mortal  woe ! 

Thou  dost  proclaim  a  nation  lost  unknown, 
Smitten  from  earth  by  some  tremendous  blow, 
Which  but  a  God  could  give  and  but  the  Omniscient  knotv. 

Hill  of  the  Lord !     Where  once  perchance  of  yore 

Sincere  devotion  woke  her  pious  strain ; 
Mountain  of  God !  did  prostrate  man  adore 
And  sing  hosannas  to  Jehovah's  name. 
While  sacrifices  fed  thine  altar's  flame? 
But  when  stern  war  his  sanguine  banner  spread 
And  strewed  the  earth  with  many  a  warrior  slain, 
Didst  thou  become  a  charnel  of  the  dead 
Who  sought  imperial  sway,  or  for  fair  freedom  bled? 


"  Mr.  Brooks  was  for  many  years  an  active  lawyer  of  Cincinnati. 
He  was  born  at  Oswego,  New  York,  and  came  to  Cincinnati  in  1811. 
On  account  of  declining  health  he  gave  up  his  profession  in  1830  and 
became  a  merchant.  He  was  a  contributor  to  the  Western  Souvenir  and 
The  Ladies'  Repository. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  37 

Yes;  here  may  some  intrepid  chieftain  he. 

Some  Alexander  great  as  Phihp's  son, 
Whose  daring  prowess  bade  the  Persian  fly 

Before  the  conquering  arm  of  Mace  ion ; 

Or  greater  still,  some  former  Washington, 
Whom  glory  warmed  and  liberty  inspired  ! 
Who  for  this  hemisphere  perchance  had  won 
His  country's  freedom,  and  deplored,  expired, 
Bathed  bv  a  nation's  tears,  beloved,  revered,  admired. 


TO  AN  INDIAN  MOUND. 
By  Thomas  H.  Shreve.''-    (1808-1853.) 

Whence,  and  why  art  thou  here,  mysterious  mound? 

Are  questions  which  man  asks  but  asks  in  vain  ; 
For  o'er  thy  destinies  a  night  profound. 

All  rayless  and  all  echoless,  doth  reign. 
A  thousand  years  have  passed  like  yesterday, 

Since  wintry  snows  first  on  thy  bosom  slept. 
And  much  of  mortal  grandeur  passed  away, 

Since  thou  hast  here  thy  voiceless  vigils  kept. 

While  standing  thus  upon  thy  oak-crowned  head, 

The  shadows  of  dim  ages  long  since  gone 
Reel  on  my  mind,  like  spectres  of  the  dead, 

While  dirge-like  music  haunts  the  wind's  low  moan. 
From  out  the  bosom  of  the  boundless  past 

There  rises  up  no  voice  of  thee  to  tell : 
Eternal  silence  like  a  shadow  vast 

Broods  on  the  breast  and  shrouds  thine  annals  well. 


''■'Thomas  H.  Shreve  was  a  Quaker,  whose  later  years  were  spent 
upon  the  editorial  staff  of  the  Louisville  Journal.  He  was  engaged  in 
literary  work  of  various  sorts  also  in  Cincinnati.  An  extensive  sketch  of 
his  life  is  given  by  William  Davis  Gallagher,  in  Coggeshell's  "Poets  and 
Poetrv  of  the  West." 


38  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Didst  thou  not  ante-date  the  rise  of  Rome, 
Egyptia's  pyramids  and  Grecian  arts? 

Did  not  the  wild  deer  here  for  sheher  come 

Before  the  Tyrrhene  sea  had  ships  or  marts? 

Through  shadows  deep  and  dark  the  mind  must  pierce 
Which  glances  backward  to  that  ancient  time ; 

Nations  before  it  fall  in  struggles  fierce 

Where  human  glory  fades  in  human  crime. 

Upon  the  world's  wide  stage  full  many  a  scene 

Of  grandeur  and  of  gloom,  of  blood  and  blight 
Hath  been  enacted  since  thy  forests  green 

Sighed  in  the  breeze  and  smiled  in  morning's  light. 
Thou  didst  not  hear  the  woe  nor  heed  the  crime 

Which  darkened  earth  through  ages  of  distress; 
Unknowing  and  unknown,  thou  stood'st  sublime 

And  calmly  looked  upon  the  wilderness. 

The  redman  oft  hath  lain  his  aching  head, 

When  weary  of  the  chase,  upon  thy  breast ; 
And  as  the  slumberous  hours  fast  o'er  him  fled 

Has  dreamed  of  hunting-grounds  in  climes  most  blest. 
Perhaps  his  thought  ranged  through  the  long  past  time, 

Striving  to  solve  the  problem  of  thy  birth, 
Till  wearied  out  with  dreams,  dim  though  sublime. 

His  fancy  fluttered  back  to  him  and  earth. 

The  eagle  soaring  through  the  upper  air 

Checks  his  proud  flight  and  glances  on  thy  crest, 
As  though  his  destiny  were  pictured  there 

In  the  deep  solitude  that  wraps  thy  breast. 
Thy  reign  must  soon  be  o'er  —  the  human  tide 

Is  surging  round  thee  like  a  restless  sea; 
And  thou  must  yield  thy  empire  and  thy  pride 

And,  like  thy  builders,  soon  forgotten  be. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  39 

THE  OLD  MOUND/3 

By  Charles  A.  Jones.     (1815-1851.)^* 

Lonely  and  sad  it  stands : 

The  trace  of  ruthless  hands 
Is  on  its  side  and  summit,  and  around 
The  dweUings  of  the  white  man  pile  the  ground  ; 

And  curling  in  the  air. 
The  smoke  of  thrice  a  thousand  hearths  is  there : 

Without,  all  speaks  of  life,  —  within, 

Deaf  to  the  city's  echoing  din, 
Sleep  well  the  tenants  of  that  silent  Mound. 
Their  names  forgot,  their  memories  unrenown'd. 

Upon  its  top  I  tread, 

And  see  around  me  spread 
Temples  and  mansions,  and  the  hoary  hills, 
Bleak  with  the  labor  that  the  cofifer  fills. 

But  mars  their  bloom  the  while, 
And  steals  from  natirre's  face  its  joyous  smile : 

And  here  and  there,  below 

The  stream's  meandering  flow 
Breaks  on  the  view ;  and  westward  in  the  sky 
The  gorgeous  clouds  in  crimson  masses  lie. 

The  hammer's  clang  rings  out, 

Where  late  the  Indian's  shout 
Startled  the  wild-fowl  from  its  sedgy  nest, 
And  broke  the  wild  deer's  and  the  panther's  rest. 


^  In  the  western  part  of  Cincinnati,  demolished  years  ago  by  a  vandal 
curiosity,  near  what  is  now  the  junction  of  Fifth  and  Mound  Streets. 

'*  Charles  A.  Jones  was  born  in  Philadelphia.  When  a  mere  child 
he  came  to  Cincinnati.  When  yet  a  young  man  he  gave  promise  of 
much  literary  distinction,  but  because  of  pecuniary  conditions  he  was 
driven  into  the  practice  of  law.  He  contributed  much  to  various  period- 
icals of  the  time,  including  the  Western  Literary  Journal,  and  the  Cin- 
cinnati Gazette.  In  his  writings  he  deals  exclusively  with  what  were  then 
western  ideals  and  characters.  He  takes  his  subjects  from  the  rivers, 
the  mounds,  the  Indian  heroes  and  pioneers  of  the  Ohio  and  Mississippi 
Valleys. 


40  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications . 

The  lordly  oaks  went  down 
Before  the  ax  —  the  cane-brake  is  a  town : 

The  bark  canoe  no  more 
Glides  noiseless  from  the  shore; 
And,  sole  memorial  of  a  nation's  doom 
Amid  the  works  of  art  rises  this  lonely  tomb. 

It  too  must  pass  away : 

Barbaric  bands  will  lay 
Its  holy  ruins  level  with  the  plain 
And  rear  upon  its  site  some  goodly  fane. 

It  seemeth  to  upbraid 
The  white  man  for  the  ruin  he  has  made. 

And  soon  the  spade  and  mattock  must 

Invade  the  sleepers'  buried  dust 
And  bare  their  bones  to  sacrilegious  eyes, 
And  send  them  forth  some  joke-collector's  prize. 


A  WALK  AT  SUNSET.^^ 

By  William   Cullen  Bryant. 

"Then  came  the  hunter's  tribes,  and  thou  didst  look, 
For  ages,  on  their  deeds  in  the  hard  chase, 

And  well  fought  wars ;  green  sod  and  silver  brook 
Took  the  first  stain  of  blood ;  before  thy  face 

The  warrior  generations  came  and  passed. 

And  glory  was  laid  up  for  many  an  age  to  last. 

Now  they  are  gone,  gone  as  thy  setting  blaze 

Goes  down  the  west,  while  night  is  pressing  on 

And  with  them,  the  old  tale  of  better  days, 

And  trophies  of  remembered  power,  are  gone. 

Yon  field  that  gives  the  harvest,  where  the  plough 

Strikes  the  white  bone,  is  all  that  tells  their  story  now. 


The  last  four  stanzas  from  "The  Prairies. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  41 

I  stand  upon  their  ashes,  in  thy  beam, 

The  offspring  of  another  race  I  stand 
Beside  a  stream  they  loved,  this  valley  stream ; 

And  where  the  night-fire  of  the  quivered  band 
Showed  the  gray  elms  by  fits  and  war-song  sung 
I  teach  the  quiet  shades  the  strains  of  this  new  tongue. 

Farewell !  but  thou  shalt  come  again  —  thy  light 

Must  shine  on  other  changes,  and  behold 
The  place  of  the  thronged  city,  still  as  night  — 

States  fallen  —  new  empires  built  upon  the  old  — 
But  never  shalt  thou  see  these  realms  again 
Darkened   by   boundless   groves,   and   roamed   by   savage   men." 


INDIAN  GRAVES. 

By  Benjamin  S.  Parker.^"     (1833-) 

All  along  the  winding  river 

And  adown  the  shady  glen, 

On  the  hill  and  in  the  valley. 

Are  the  graves  of  dusky  men. 

We  are  garrulous  intruders 

On  the  sacred  burying  grounds 

Of  the  Manitou's'^^  red  children, 

And  the  builders  of  the  mounds. 

Here  the  powah  and  the  sachem, 
Here  the  warrior  and  the  maid. 

Sleeping  in  the  dust  we  tread  on. 
In  the  forests  we  invade, 


"  Benjamin  S.  Parker  was  born  in  Henry  County,  Indiana.  He 
spent  his  boyhood  and  early  manhood  on  a  farm,  enjoying  common-school 
advantages.  Dr.  Venable  says  of  him:  "Benjamin  S.  Parker  is  a  good 
poet  and  a  good  man."  He  is  the  author  of  several  books  and  the  chief 
editor  of  the  volume  "Poets  and  Poetry  of  Indiana."  He  is  now  in  his 
seventy-seventh  year  and  resides  at  New  Castle,  Indiana. 

"  "Manitou,"  the  Indian  word  for  Great  Spirit. 


42  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Rest  as  calmly  and  as  sweetly, 

As  the  mummied  kings  of  old, 

Where  Cyrene's  marble  city^® 

Guards  their  consecrated  mould. 

Through  the  woodland,  through  the  meadow. 

As  in  silence  oft  I  walk, 
Softly  whispering  on  the  breezes, 

Seem  to  come  the  redman's  talk ; 

Muttering  low  and  very  sweetly 
Of  the  good  Great-Spirit's  love 

That  descends  like  dews  of  evening. 
On  his  children  from  above. 

Still  repeating  from  the  prophets. 
And  the  sachems  gray  and  old. 

Stories  of  the  south-west  AideUj^" 
Curtained  all  around  with  gold: 

Where  the  great  and  good  Sowanna*" 
Calleth  all  his  children  home, 

Through  the  hunting  grounds  eternal, 
Free  as  summer  winds  to  roam; 

Singing  wildest  songs  of  wailing 
For  the  dead  upon  their  way. 

On  the  four-days'  journey  homeward" 
To  the  realms  of  light  and  day; 

Chanting  soft  and  gentle  measures. 
Lays  of  hope  and  songs  of  love, 

Now  like  shout  of  laughing  waters. 
Now  like  cooing  of  the  dove. 


'*  "Cyrene's  marble  city,"  a  Greek  colony  in  Northern  Africa,  founded 
A.  D.  632. 

^"South-west  Aiden."  Aiden  is  the  fanciful  spelling  of  Eden.  The 
Indian's  idea  of  the  land  of  the  hereafter  was  that  it  was  in  the  south-west. 

"  "Sowanna,"  the  All-Father. 

"  "Four  days'  journey."  The  Indian  believed  that  it  took  the  soul 
four  days  to  make  the  journey  from  this  world  to  the  spirit  world. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  43 


Then,  anon,  their  feet  make  echo 

To  the  war-song's  fiendish  howl, 

And  revenge  upon  their  features 
Sets  his  pandemonium  scowl. 

See  again  the  smoke  is  curHng 
From  the  friendly  calumet,*^ 

And  the  club  of  war  is  buried, 
And  the  star  of  slaughter  set. 

But  alas !  Imagination, 

Ever  weaving  dream  on  dream, 
Soon  forgets  the  buried  redman 

For  some  more  congenial  theme. 

But  although  the  race  is  ended 

And  forever  over  here, 
Let  their  virtues  be  remembered, 

While  we  fervently  revere 

All  their  ancient  burial  places. 

Hill  and  valley,  plain  and  glen ; 
Honor  every  sacred  relic 

Of  that  fading  race  of  men. 

Gitche-Manitou  has  called  them 

From  the  chase  and  war-path  here, 

To  the  mystic  land  of  spirits. 

In  some  undiscovered  sphere. 

In  a  land  of  light  and  glory. 

That  no  sachem's  eye  hath  seen, 

Where  the  streams  are  golden  rivers, 
And  the  forests  ever  green : 

Where  the  winter  sun  descending 
Sets  the  south-west  sky  aflame, 

Shall  the  Indian  race  be  gathered 
In  the  great  Sowanna's  name. 


'Calumet,"  the  peace-pipe. 


44  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

THE  INDIAN  RELIC. 

By  Luella  J.  B.  Case.     (?-i857.)" 

Years  ago  was  made  thy  grave, 
By  Ohio's  languid  wave, 
When  primeval  forests  dim 
Echoed  to  the  wild  bird's  hymn ; 

From  that  lone  and  quiet  bed. 
Relic  of  the  unknown  dead. 
Why  art  thou,  a  mouldering  thing, 
Here  amongst  the  bloom  of  spring? 

A'iolets  gem  the  fresh,  young  grass; 
Softest  breezes  o'er  thee  pass ; 
Nature's  voice  in  tree  and  flower 
Whispers  of  a  waking  hour; 

Village  sounds  below  are  ringing; 
Birds  around  thee  joyous  singing  — 
Thou,  upon  this  height  alone 
No  reviving  power  hast  known ! 

Yet  wert  thou  of  human  form. 
Once  with  all  life's  instincts  warm,  — 
Quailing  at  the  storm,  of  grief, 
Like  the  frailest  forest  leaf,  — 

With  a  bounding  pulse  —  an  eye 
Bright'ning  o'er  its  loved  ones  nigh, 
Till  beneath  this  cairn  of  trust 
Dust  was  laid  to  blend  with  dust. 


"Luella  J.  Bartlett  was  a  native  of  Kingston,  New  Hampshire. 
Her  grandfather  was  one  of  the  signers  of  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence. She  was  married  in  1828  to  Eliphalet  Case,  who  came  to 
Cincinnati  in  1845  and  became  one  of  the  editors  and  proprietors  of  the 
Cincimiati  Enquirer,  to  which  Mrs.  Case  contributed  several  poems  on 
western  themes. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  45 

When  the  redman  ruled  the  wood, 
And  his  frail  canoe  yon  flood, 
Hast  thou  held  the  unerring  bow 
That  the  antlered  head  laid  low  ? 

And  in  battle's  fearful  strife 
Swung  the  keen,  remorseless  knife? 
Or,  with  woman's  loving  arm, 
Shielded  helplessness  from  harm? 

Silent !     Silent !     Naught  below 
O'er  thy  past  a  gleam  can  throw. 
Or,  in  frame  of  sinewy  chief, 
Woman,  born  for  love  and  grief  — 

Thankless  toil  or  haughty  sway 
Sped  life's  brief  and  fitful  day. 
Like  the  autumn's  sapless  bough 
Crumbling  o'er  thee  thou  art  now. 

Rest!     A  young  organic  world, 

Into  sudden  ruin  hurled. 

Casts  its  fragments  o'er  thy  tomb, 

'Midst  the  woodlands'  softened  gloom. 

Died  those  frail  things  long  ago. 
But  the  soul  no  death  can  know  — 
Rest!     Thy  grave  with  silent  preaching. 
Humble  hope  and  faith  is  teaching ! 

Rest !    Thy  warrior  tribes  so  bold 
Roam  no  more  their  forest  old, 
And  the  thundering  fire  canoe 
Sweeps  their  placid  waters  through 

Science  ruled  where  Nature  smiled : 
Art  is  toiling  in  the  wild ; 
And  their  mouldering  cairns  alone 
Tell  the  tale  of  races  gone. 


46  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Thus  o'er  Time's  mysterious  sea 
Being  moves  perpetually; 
Crowds  of  swift  advancing  waves 
Roll  o'er  vanished  nations'  graves; 

But  immortal  treasures  sweep 
Still  unharmed  that  solemn  deep ;  — 
Progress  holds  a  tireless  way  — 
Mind  asserts  her  deathless  sway. 


THE  BLACK  HAND.** 

By  Hon.  Alfred  Kellev.*^ 

Have  you  ever  seen  the  place  where  the  murderer's  hand 

Had  instamped  on  the  rock  its  indelible  brand, 

A  stain  which  nor  water  nor  time  could  efface? 

'Tis  a  lonely  deep  glen,  'tis  a  wild  roomy  place 

Where  the  waters  of  Licking  do  silently  lave, 

Where  the  huge  frowning  rock  high  impends  o'er  the  wave, 

On  whose  pine-covered  summit  we  hear  the  deep  sigh 

When  the  zephyrs  of  evening  so  gently  pass  by. 

Here  a  generous  savage  was  once  doomed  to  bleed, 

'Twas  the  treacherous  white  man  committed  the  deed. 

The  hand  of  the  murderer  fixed  the  imprint, 

'Twas  the  blood  of  the  victim  that  gave  the  black  tint. 

A  captive  in  battle  the  white  man  was  made, 

And  deep  in  the  wilds  is  the  victim  conveyed, 

Here  far  from  his  kindred  the  youth  must  be  slain. 

His  prayers,  his  entreaties,  his  struggles  are  vain. 


"  The  Black  Hand  Narrows  of  the  Licking  is  midway  of  Newark 
and  Zanesville,  along  the  electric  car  line. 

*°  Hon.  Alfred  Kelley  was  one  of  the  commissioners  that  built  the 
Ohio  Canal,  when  the  "Black  Hand"  was  destroyed.  See  Ohio  Magasine 
for  November,  1006,  for  a  version  of  the  legend  ;  also  the  Ohio  Archaeo- 
logical and  Historical  Society's  Publications,  Volume  XHI. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  47 

The  war  dance  is  treading,  his  death  song  is  singing, 

And  the  wild  savage  yells  in  his  ears  is  a-ringing. 

The  fire  for  the  torture  is  blazing  on  high, 

His  death  doom  is  sealed,  here  the  white  man  must  die. 

The  hatchet  is  raised,  the  weapon  descends. 

But  quick  an  old  chief  o'er  the  victim  now  bends. 

The  hatchet  he  seizes  and  hurls  to  the  ground. 

He  raises  the  youth  and  his  limbs  are  unbound. 

"My  son  fell  in  battle,"  exclaims  the  old  chief, 

"But  ye  saw  not  my  sorrow,  tho'  deep  was  my  grief, 

And  now  shall  the  white  man  to  me  be  a  son, 

'Tis  your  chief  that  has  said  it  —  his  will  shall  be  done. 

A  friend  and  a  father  to  him  will  I  prove, 

And  me  as  a  father  and  friend  shall  he  love." 

Long  years  had  passed  by  and  peace  had  again 

Spread  her  soft  balmy  wings  over  mountain  and  plain, 

The  red  man  and  white  man  in  friendship  now  meet, 

For  the  hatchet  is  buried  deep  under  their  feet. 

Long  years  had  rolled  on  while  the  chief  and  his  son 

Rich  spoils  from  the  forest  together  had  won. 

Now  loaded  with  furs  from  the  far  distant  lake. 

The  path  to  the  traders  together  they  take. 

Through  the  Narrows  of  Licink  their  pathway  extends, 

Around  the  huge  rock  on  its  margin  it  bends. 

Where  the  shelf  on  its  face  scarce  admits  them  to  creep 

Along  the  dark  front  that  impends  o'er  the  steep. 

The  chief  with  fatigue  and  with  age  now  oppressed, 

In  the  shade  of  the  rock  seeks  a  moment  of  rest ; 

Here,  lulled  by  the  waters  he  closes  his  eyes. 

While  his  spirit  communes  with  his  friends  in  the  skies. 

By  his  side  the  false  white  man  now  silently  knelt, 

And  carefully  drawing  his  knife  from  his  belt. 

With  one  deadly  plunge  of  the  murderous  steel 

Reached  the  heart  full  of  kindness  —  a  heart  that  could  feel. 

Then  quick  in  the  river  the  Indian  was  thrown 

Lest  the  tale  should  be  told,  lest  the  deed  should  be  known. 

Oh,  the  shriek  that  he  gave  as  he  sank  in  the  flood. 

As  the  waves  eddied  round  him,  deep-stained  with  his  blood. 


48  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Oh,  the  glare  of  his  eye  as  they  closed  o'er  his  head, 

While  with  hoarse  sullen  murmur  they  welcomed  the  dead. 

Rock  told  it  to  rock,  oft  repeating  the  sound. 

While  shore  answering  shore  still  prolonged  it  around. 

That  look  and  that  sound  touched  the  murderer's  heart, 

With  frenzy  he  reeled,  and  with  shuddering  start. 

His  hand,  while  still  reeking,  with  madness  he  placed 

On  the  rock  and  the  blood  stain  could  ne'er  be  effaced. 

'Twas  avarice  prompted  the  horrible  deed, 

'Twas  avarice  doomed  the  kind  chieftain  to  bleed. 

To  form  the  safe  towing-path,  long  since  that  day 

The  face  of  the  rock  has  been  blasted  away. 

Now  the  gay  painted  boat  glides  so  smoothly  along, 

Its  deck  crowned  with  beauty  and  cheerful  with  song. 

And  the  print  of  the  Black  Hand  no  longer  is  seen 

But  the  pine-covered  summit  is  still  evergreen, 

And  still  through  the  branches  we  hear  the  deep  sigh 

Of  the  spirits  of  air  as  they  sadly  pass  by, 

While  in  mournful  procession  they  move  one  by  one 

Still  thinking  with  grief  on  the  deed  that  was  done. 


FAREWELL  SONG  OF  THE  WYANDOT  INDIANS/" 

By  James  Rankin. ^^ 

Adieu  to  the  graves  where  my  fathers  now  rest ! 
For  I  must  be  going  to  the  far  distant  west. 
I've  sold  my  possessions ;  my  heart  fills  with  woe 
To  think  I  must  leave  them,  Alas !  I  must  go. 


*'  Rev.  James  Wheeler,  the  resident  missionary,  preached  the  fare- 
well sermon  at  the  Old  Mission  Church,  Upper  Sandusky,  in  July,  1843, 
to  the  assembled  Wyandot  Indians,  who  were  removed  a  few  days  later 
by  the  government  to  the  west.  Squire  John  Greyeyes,  a  converted 
Wyandot  Indian,  preached  the  sermon  in  the  Wyandot  language.  Many 
present  were  moved  to  tears  when  Greyeyes  bade  adieu  to  the  surround- 
ing scenes  amid  which  his  people  had  long  lived.    This  pathetic  scene  was 


Poems  on  Ohio. 

Farewell  ye  tall  oaks  in  whose  pleasant  green  shade 
In  childhood  I  sported,  in  innocence  played ; 
My  dog  and  my  hatchet,  my  arrows  and  bow, 
Are  still  in  remembrance,  Alas !  I  must  go. 

Adieu  ye  loved  scenes,  which  bind  me  like  chains, 
Where  on  my  gay  pony  I  chased  o'er  the  plains. 
The  deer  and  the  turkey  I  tracked  in  the  snow. 
But  now  I  must  leave  them,  Alas !  I  must  go. 

Adieu  to  the  trails  which  for  many  a  year 
I  traveled  to  spy  the  turkey  and  deer. 
The  hills,  trees  and  flowers  that  pleased  me  so 
I  must  now  leave,  Alas !  I  must  go. 

Sandusky,  Tymochtee,  and  Brokensword  streams,** 
Nevermore  shall  I  see  you  except  in  my  dreams, 
Adieu  to  the  marshes  where  the  cranberries  grow 
O'er  the  great  Mississippi,  Alas !  I  must  go. 

Adieu  to  the  roads  which  for  many  a  year 
I  travelled  each  Sabbath  the  gospel  to  hear, 
The  news  was  so  joyful  and  pleased  me  so, 
From  hence  where  I  heard  it,  it  grieves  me  to  go. 

Farewell  my  white  friends  who  first  taught  me  to  pray 
And  worship  my  Savior  and  Maker  each  day. 
Pray  for  the  poor  native  whose  eyes  overflow, 
With  tears  at  our  parting,  Alas !  I  musr  go. 


the  inspiration  of  the  poem.  The  publications  of  the  Ohio  Archaeological 
and  Historical  Society  contain  a  full  history  of  the  Wyandot  Mission  at 
Upper  Sandusky. 

"James  Rankin  was  a  half-breed,  his  wife  was  a  full-blood  Wyan- 
dot. He  was  a  farmer  of  intelligence  and  he  lived  on  the  Indian  Reserva- 
tion, about  half  a  mile  east  of  Main  Street,  Upper  Sandusky.  He  did  not 
leave  Upper  Sandusky  until  a  few  years  after  the  other  Indians  had  gone. 

"Tymochtee  and  Brokensword  are  streams  of  Wyandot  County. 


50  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

THE  INDIAN  MAIDEN. 

A  LEGEND. 

By  Junius  V.  Jones.     (1823 — ) 

I. 
In  days  long  ago  in  the  depths  of  the  wild, 

When  the  woods  rang  with  shouts  of  the  joyous  and  free^ 
An  Indian  maid,  with  the  voice  of  a  child, 

Fondly  played  on  the  banks  of  the  pleasant  Maumee. 

II. 
'Twas  far  in  the  past,  in  the  long,  long  ago. 

In  the  days  of  her  mirth  and  youthful  glee, 
This  Indian  maiden  was  oft  seen  to  row. 

On  the  moonlit  waters  of  the  pleasant  Maumee. 

III. 
One  pale  moonlight  night,  near  the  smooth  flowing  river, 

She  stole  from  her  wigwam,  with  heart  light  and  free, 
To  meet  her  dark  lover,  with  arrows  and  quiver. 

To  rove  on  the  banks  of  the  pleasant  Maumee. 

IV. 
Her  bark  moved  in  silence  on  the  dark,  flowing  river. 

In  search  of  her  lover  so  anxious  to  see ; 
Xo  thought  for  a  moment  that  he  would  deceive  her, 

As  she  stole  near  the  banks  of  the  pleasant  Maumee. 

V. 
But  hark !  what  is  that  ?  the  pale  face  is  coming ; 

She  thought  of  her  lover;  could  she  warn  him  to  flee? 
But   the  conflict  was   sharp,   and  the  campfires   were  burning. 

Where  her  lover  was  slain,  near  the  pleasant  Maumee. 

VI. 
Each  year  just  at  autumn,  when  the  green  leaves  are  fading, 

When  the  soft  winds  are  sighing  o'er  woodland  and  lea. 
The  pale  phantom  ghost  of  this  Indian  maiden 

Is  seen  near  the  banks  of  the  pleasant  Maumee. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  51 

THE  SPOTTED  FAWN. 

By  William  Davis  Gallagher. 

On  Mahketewa's*^  flowery  marge 

The  red  chief's  wigwam  stood, 
When  first  the  white  man's  rifle  rang 

Loud  through  the  echoing  wood ; 
The  tomahawk  and  scalping  knife 

Together  lay  at  rest; 
For  peace  was  in  the  forest  shades, 

And  in  the  red  man's  breast. 

Oh,  the  Spotted  Fawn ! 

Oh,  the  Spotted  Fawn ! 
The  light  and  life  of  the  forest  shades 
With  the  Red  Chief's  Child  is  gone. 

By  Mahketewa's  flowery  marge 

The  Spotted  Fawn  had  birth, 
And  grew,  as  fair  an  Indian  girl 

As  ever  blessed  the  earth. 

She  was  the  red  chief's  only  child. 

And  sought  by  many  a  brave  ; 
But  to  the  gallant  young  White  Cloud, 
Her  plighted  troth  she  gave. 

From  Mahketewa's  flowery  marge 

Her  bridal  song  arose  — 
None  dreaming,  in  that  festal  night, 

Of  near  encircling  foes ; 
But  through  the  forest  stealthily. 

The  white  men  came  in  wrath; 
And  fiery  deaths  before  them  sped 

And  blood  was  in  their  path. 


"  Mahketewa  is  the  Indian  name  for  Mill  Creek,  which  flows  into 
the  Ohio  River  at  Cincinnati.  This  ballad  was  written  in  1845,  and  be- 
came   at   once    immensely   popular,    being    sung    everywhere. 


52  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications, 

On  Mahketewa's  flowery  marge, 

Next  morn,  no  strife  was  seen; 
But  a  wail  went  up,  where  the  young  Fawn's  blood 

And  White  Cloud's,  dyed  the  green; 
And  burial  in  their  own  rude  way, 

The  Indians  gave  them  there, 
While  a  low  and  sweet-toned  requiem 

The  brook  sang  and  the  air. 

Oh,  the  Spotted  Fawn ! 

Oh,  the  Spotted  Fawn ! 
The  light  and  life  of  the  forest  shades 
With  the  Red  Chief's  Child  is  gone. 


THE  LOGAN  ELM.="' 

[Written    for    The   Ohio   State  Journal,   1872.] 

By  Kate  Brownlee  Sherwood. 

"I  appeal  to  any  white  man  to  say,  if  ever  he  entered  Logan's  cabin 
hungry  and  I  gave  him  not  meat;  if  ever  he  came  cold  and  naked  and 
I  gave  him  not  clothing.  During  the  course  of  the  last  long  and  bloody 
war  Logan  remained  in  his  tent  an  advocate  for  peace.  Nay,  such  was 
my  love  for  the  whites,  that  those  of  my  own  country  pointed  at  me 
as  they  passed  by  and  said,  'Logan  is  the  friend  of  white  men.'  I  had 
even  thought  to  live  with  you,  but  for  the  injuries  of  one  man.  Colonel 
Cresap,  the  last  spring,  in  cold  blood,  and  unprovoked,  cut  off  all  the 
relatives  of  Logan ;  not  sparing  even  my  women  and  children.  There 
runs  not  a  drop  of  my  blood  in  the  veins  of  any  living  creature.  This 
called  on  me  for  revenge.  I  have  sought  it.  I  have  killed  many.  I 
have  fully  glutted  my  vengeance.  For  my  country  I  rejoice  at  the  beams 
of  peace.  Yet,  do  not  harbor  the  thought  that  mine  is  the  joy  of  fear. 
Logan  never  felt  fear.  He  will  not  turn  on  his  heel  to  save  him  life. 
Who  is  there  to  mourn  for  Logan?  Not  One."  —  Speech  of  Logan,  Chief 
of  the  Mingoes,  to  Lord  Dunmore,  Governor  of  Virginia,  as  reported  in 
Thomas  Jefferson's  "Notes  on  Virginia."  " 


■"  "A  few  miles  below  Circleville  on  the  celebrated  Pickaway  Plains 
may  be  seen  the  knoll  where  Lord  Dunmore  concluded  a  treaty  with  the 
Scioto  tribes.     There,  also,  is  standing  the  elm   on  the  banks   of   Congo 


Poems  on  Ohio.  53 

To-day  we  stand  with  wondering  eyes, 
Beneath  the  elm  where  Logan  stood ; 

The  spirits  of  the  spot  arise, 

And  clothe  us  with  his  silent  mood. 

Our  hearts  are  throbbing  with  his  heart, 

His  grief  from  every  bosom  rolls, 
We  feel  our  life  of  his  a  part, 

The  silent  brotherhood  of  souls. 

For  strangely  like  are  human  minds, 

Though  cast  in  rude  or  polished  die, 
And  stronger  than  a  fetter  binds 

The  common  bond  of  sympathy. 

And  whether  good  or  whether  ill, 

Our  fellows  who  beside  us  fall, 
We  feel  the  impulses  that  thrill. 

Their  hearts  —  one  Lord  has  made  us  all. 

We  stand  beneath  the  stately  tree. 

And  gaze  adown  the  fertile  plain ; 
The  years  like  trooping  shadows  flee. 

And  all  the  vale  is  young  again. 
The  paw-paw  ripens  in  the  wood. 

The  wild  grape  by  the  river  side. 
And  golden  maize,  the  simple  food 

Of  simple  people  soon  supplied. 

From  every  bend  of  wood  and  rill 

The  wild  men  of  the  forest  peer ; 
The  wily  hunter,  lithe  and  still 

Speeds  swiftly  on  the  startled  deer. 


Creek,  beneath  which  Logan,  the  Mingo  chief,  who  had  refused  to  appear 
in  council,  made  his  famous  speech." 

"  A    full    account    of    Dunmore's    War    is    given    in    Vol.    XI,    Ohio 
Archaeological  and  Historical  Publications. 


54  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publicaiions. 

Low  circling  round  the  sparkling  spring 
The  bison-covered  tents  are   spread  ; 

The  children  in  their  hammocks  swing 
And  catch  the  branches  overhead. 

Fantastic  figures  dance  around 

The  campfires  gleaming  on  the  height, 

Or  grouped  in  circles  on  the  ground 
Flash  picturesquely  on  the  sight. 

And  peace  is  in  the  silent  shade. 

And  peace  is  on  the  sunny  plain ; 
The  Indian  lover  woos  his  maid 

And  twines  for  her  the  wampum  chain. 

By  right  of  birth  the  red  men  hold 

The  broad  green  acres  far  and  wide ; 

The  pale  face  forged  his  titles  bold 
And  urges  them  with  wanton  pride. 

Already  in  the  hunter's  trail 

His  conquering  step  is  daily  seen ; 

His  plow  is  tearing  up  the  vale. 
His  ax  is  at  the  forest  green. 

The  crack  of  rifle  loud  and  long 
Awakes  the  echo  far  and  near; 

A  terror  strikes  the  feathered  throng, 
The  startled  bison  flee  with  fear. 

The  moor  fowl  calls  her  scattered  brood 
And  screaming  seeks  the  distant  brake 

The  shy,  wild  creatures  of  the  wood 
Their  flight  to  deeper  coverts  take. 

And,  savage,  from  their  broken  lair, 

The  tribes  in  common  council  meet ; 
The  Shawnee  and  the  Delaware 
:  And  Mingo  one  another  greet. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  55 

And  now  the  fires  burn  angrily 

In  all  the  sweet  Scioto  vale ; 
The  warrior  shouts  his  battle-cry 

And  stealthy  takes  the  great  war  trail. 

From  burning-ground  to  burning-ground 
The  dread  death  signals  flash  and  fly; 

The  victims  to  the  fagots  bound 
Shriek  wildly  in  their  agony. 

The  brands  are  burning  fierce  and  high 

Beside  the  settler's  cabin  piled; 
While  dying  in  the  door-way  lie 

The  pale-faced  mother  and  her  child. 

Again  the  tide  of  war  is  turned, 

The  wild  death  wails  of  battle  cease, 

The  flaring  torch  is  only  burned 
To  light  the  calumet  of  peace. 

The  dread  war-whoop  has  died  away 

The  poisoned  arrow  speeds  no  more  ; 

The  red  man  bows  his  head  to-day 

To  George  the  Third  and  Lord  Dunmore. 

But  see  the  Mingo  chieftain  stand 

With  folded  arms  and  haughty  head ; 

His  hopes  are  in  the  spirit  land. 

His  thought  are  with  the  sleeping  dead. 

The  cup  of  vengeance,  once  so  sweet, 
Has  proved  a  poisoned  draught  to  be. 

Whose  thousand  ghastly  horrors  meet 
His  eyes  in  shocking  mockery. 

No  life  to  love,  no  hope,  no  home. 

No  tribal  fame,  no  destiny; 
Forsaken  through  the  world  to  roam 

Unmourned  to  meet  eternity. 


56  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

A  prophecy  is  on  his  soul  — 

He  stands  the  type  of  all  his  race 

Who  wandering  from  pole  to  pole 
Shall  find  no  safe  abiding  place. 

Upon  their  desolate  path 

The  tempest  and  the  storm  shall  pour 
The  fury  of  their  gathered  wrath 

Till  earth  shall  know  the  race  no  more. 
*  *  * 

Thrice  thirty  times  the  summer's  sheen 

Has  turned  the  tasseled  maize  to  gold, 
Thrice  thirty  autumn  moons  have  seen 

It  garnered  safely  in  the  hold. 

Thrice  thirty  times  the  oriole  swung 
His  hammock  in  the  Elm  high. 

Thrice  thirty  times  his  farewell  sung 
Ere  fleeing  to  a  calmer  sky. 

Yet,  ever  in  the  sun  and  shade 

The  sad  lament  of  Logan  swells ; 

The  brook  that  whispers  through  the  glade 
Its  story  to  the  river  tells. 

The  murmuring  morning  breezes  break 
It  softly  to  the  downy  lea  ; 

At  eve  the  sighing  branches  wake 
A  slow  and  solemn  threnody. 

Live  on,  O  Queen  of  forest  trees ! 

O  Elm,  kissed  by  sun  and  dew ! 
Be  thine  the  blandest  morning  breeze ! 

Be  thine  the  skies  of  gladdest  hue ! 

Live  for  the  bard  whose  tales  shall  start 
Lays  of  diviner  minstrelsy  ! 

And  wake  within  the  human  heart 
The  finer  chords  of  sympathy ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  57 

Live  on,  O  monument  of  him 

Whose  scorned  and  shocked  humanity 

Has  stood  a  homily  to  dim 
Our  boasted  Christianity. 

Live  on,  while  winter  snows  shall  chill 

While  summer  heats  shall  scorch  and  burn. 

Till  man  to  do  his  Father's  will 
A  broader  charity  shall  learn. 


THE  SHAWNEES  AT  V/APAKONETA>' 

an  historical  jingle. i782-1832." 

Anonymous. 

Astray  in  the  wilderness  driven  from  home. 
The  Shawnees  to  Wapakoneta  did  roam. 
The  banks  of  Auglaize  had  hardly  been  found 
Till  Indian  wigwams  dotted  the  ground. 

Here  Wapakoneta,  the  chief  of  his  tribe. 
And  Logan  the  friend  of  the  white  man,  reside ; 
Blue  Jacket,  as  well  as  The  Turtle  so  brave. 
Selected  such  warriors  no  other  tribe  gave ; 

Tecumseh,  pretender,  was  stripped  of  his  mask^ 
By  Blackhoof  whose  judgment  then  found  it  no  task ; 
The  Prophet,  (the  Wizard,  the  brother)  bemeaned 
And  by  the  same  oracle  proven  a  fiend. 


''  The  Shawnees  settled  in  Auglaize  County  in  1782,  and  by  the 
treaties  of  Maumee,  1817,  and  St.  Marys,  1818,  they  were  to  retain  their 
reservations  forever.  But  the  United  States  government  changed  its  mind 
in  1831  and  they  were  driven  to  the  westward.  This  ballad  describes  these 
events.  Supt.  J.  D.  Simpkins,  of  Newark,  included  it  in  his  excellent 
History  of  Auglaize  County   (1901). 

"*  See  Howe's  Historical  Collections  of  Ohio,  Vol.  I,  p.  293,  for  ex- 
planations of  various  references  here. 


58  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Here  Johnny  and  Brighthorn  met  Logan  their  friend  — 
Not  chief  of  the  Mingoes  —  he  had  no  "revenge", 
Here  Johnson,  the  agent,  selected  the  scout 
Most  daring  by  far  of  any  'twere  out. 

The  hunter,  the  trapper,  the  trader  met  here 

To  deal  in  the  peltry  long  year  after  year. 

When  Tarhe  (The  Crane)  of  Tecumseh  had  dreams. 

To  him  our  old  Blackhoof  exposed  the  bad  schemes. 

Here  Winnemac,  mighty,  cruel  Ottawa  chief, 
Did  come  to  appease  but  met  with  such  grief ; 
He  found  he  had  roused  such  a  terrible  band 
That  it  soon  happened  he  fell  at  their  hand. 

Here  Roundhead,  the  warrior,  came  Prophet  to  meet, 
Saying,  "If  you're  from  Heaven  I'll  kneel  at  your  feet"; 
But  our  chiefs  again  the  illusions  dispel 
Pronouncing  the  Prophet  the  agent  of  hell. 

Here  Harvey  the  Quaker,  the  witch  doth  save 
By  off'ring  his  life  in  place  to  the  knave. 
Here  Senecas,  Wyandots,  Dela wares  join 
The  Ottawas,  Shawnees  (for)  Samuels'  coin. 

The  fiercest  and  proudest  of  Indian  bands  — 
Their  home  was  the  center  of  Indian  lands ; 
A  council  was  here  before  a  campaign  — 
A  council  was  here  when  over  again. 

In  this  capital  town  for  some  forty  odd  years, 
Old  Samuel's  Indian  business  appears, 
Jefferson.  Harrison,  Cass  inscribe 
Some  letters  of  note  to  this  powerful  tribe. 

Cincinnati,  Detroit,  where  the  courts  were  held  — 
The  judges  through  here  to  pass  were  compelled. 
When  they  stopped  over  night  so  pleased  were  the  tribe 
The  squaws  and  the  bucks  gave  a  dance  on  the  side. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  SQt 

We  took  their  last  title  by  fraud  and  by  force 

And  left  the  whole  tribe  but  little  recourse : 

Wayweleapy,  orator,  sank  in  his  tears 

While  showing  his  tribe,  "There  is  fraud  it  appears." 

A  committee  was  sent  the  Great  Father  to  see 
At  Washington  city  and  make  a  last  plea ; 
Wayweleapy,  Parks,  Duchouquet  and  Buck 
Joined  Blackhoof  and  Perry  to  try  for  good  luck. 

The  journey  was  long  and  the  roads  there  were  none 
The  weather  was  cold,  —  but  little  was  done. 
So  civilization  had  leveled  the  old 
To  give  to  the  nczv  a  firmer  hold. 

Here  witchcraft,  polygamy,  torture  were  stayed 
By  the  heart  of  the  Quaker  —  not  avarice's  blade. 
Here  Johnson,  the  agent,  saw  two  thousand  strong 
Reduced  to  eight  hundred  by  sickness  and  wrong. 

Though  their  star  it  had  set,  they  now  wind  again 
Near  eight  hundred  miles  across  the  great  plain 
As  gloomy  and  sad  they  turn  from  their  home 
You'll  glorify  virtues,  their  faults  will  condone. 

The  forest  primeval  has  gone  from  us  now,  — 
The  trails  are  all  turned  by  the  white  man's  plow. 
While  our  Liberty  Bell  was  ringing  their  knell. 
It  proclaimed  to  Progress,  that  "All  is  well." 


Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

TECUMSEH.^* 

By  Charles  A.  Jones.     (1815-1851.) 

"yVhere  rolls  the  dark  and  turbid  Thames 

His  consecrated  wave  along 
Sleeps  one,  than  whose,  few  are  the  names 

More  worthy  of  the  lyre  and  song; 
Yet  o'er  whose  spot  of  lone  repose 

No  pilgrim  eyes  are  seen  to  weep ; 
And  no  memorial  marble  throws 

Its  shadows  where  his  ashes  sleep. 
Stop,  stranger!  there  Tecumseh  lies; 

Behold  the  lowly  resting  place 
Of  all  that  of  the  hero  dies ; 

The  Caesar  —  Tully  —  of  his  race ; 
Whose  arm  of  strength  and  fiery  tongue 

Have  won  him  an  immortal  name, 
And  from  the  mouths  of  millions  wrung 

Reluctant  tribute  to  his  fame. 
Stop — for  'tis  glory  claims  thy  tear! 

True  worth  belongs  to  all  mankind ; 
And  he  whose  ashes  slumber  here 

Though  man  in  form  was  god  in  mind. 
What  matter  he  was  not  like  these 

In  race  and  color  —  this  the  soul 
That  marks  man's  true  divinity — 

Then  let  not  shame  thy  tear  control. 
Art  thou  a  patriot  ? — so  was  he  ! 

His  breast  was  Freedom's  holiest  shrine; 
And  as  thou  bendest  there  thy  knee 

His  spirit  will  unite  with  thine. 


"Tecumseh  was  born  on  the  Mad  River,  about  six  miles  from 
Springfield,  in  1768.  He  was  killed  in  the  Battle  of  the  Thames  (Canada), 
October  5,  181.3.  See  Ohio  Archaeological  and  Historical  Publications  for 
l)iography. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  61 

All  that  a  man  can  give,  he  gave — 

His  life — the  country  of  his  sires 
From  the  oppressor's  grasp  to  save ; 

In  vain  —  quenched  are  the  nation's  fires. 
Art  thou  a  soldier  ?     Dost  thou  not 

O'er  deeds  chivalric  love  to  muse  ? 
Here  stay  thy  steps  —  what  better  spot 

Couldst  thou  for  contemplation  choose  ? 
The  earth  beneath  is  holy  ground, 

It  holds  a  thousand  valiant  braves. 
Tread  lightly  o'er  each  little  mound, 

For  they  are  no  ignoble  graves. 
Thermopylae  and  Marathon, 

Though  classic  earth  can  boast  no  more 
Of  deeds  heroic  than  yon  sun 

Once  saw  upon  this  lonely  shore. 
When  in  a  gallant  nation's  last 

And  deadliest  struggle,  for  its  own, 
Tecumseh's  fiery  spirit  pass'd 

In  blood,  and  sought  its  Father's  throne. 
Oh,  softly  fall  the  summer  dew, 

The  tears  of  heaven,  upon  his  sod, 
For  he  in  life  and  death  was  true 

Both  to  his  country  and  his  God ; 
For  oh,  if  God  to  man  has  given 

From  his  bright  home  beyond  the  skies 
One  feeling  that's  akin  to  heaven, 

'Tis  he  who  for  his  country  dies. 
Rest,  warrior,  rest !     Though  not  a  dirge 

Is  thine,  beside  the  wailing  blast, 
Time  cannot  in  oblivion  merge 

The  light  thy  star  of  glory  cast ; 
While  heave  you  high  hills  to  the  sky. 

While  rolls  yon  dark  and  turbid  river, 
Thy  name  and  fame  can  never  die — 

Whom  freedom  loves  will  live  forever. 


62  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

A  LAMENT  FOR  THE  ANCIENT  PEOPLE. 

By  William  J.  Sperry.^^     (1823-1856.) 

Sad  are  fair  Muskingi;m's  waters, 
Sadly,  blue  Mahoning  raves ; 
Tuscarawas'  plains  are  lonely, 

Lonely  are  Hockhocking's  waves. 
From  where  headlong  Cuyahoga 

Thunders  down  its  rocky  way, 
And  the  billows  of  blue  Erie 

Whiten  in  Sandusky's  bay. 
Unto  where  Potomac  rushes 

Arrowy  from  the  mountain  side. 
And  Kanawha's  gloomy  waters 

Mingles  with  Ohio's  tide; 
From  the  valley  of  Scioto, 

And  the  Huron  sisters  three, 
To  the  foaming  Susquehanna 

And  the  leaping  Genesee; 
Over  hill  and  plain  and  valley — 

Over  river,  lake  and  bay — 
On  the  water — in  the  forest — 

Ruled  and  reigned  the  Seneca. 

But  sad  are  fair  Muskingum's  waters, 

Sadly  blue  Mahoning  raves ; 
Tuscarawas'  plains  are  lonely, 

Lonely  are  Hockhocking's  waves. 
By  Kanawha  dwells  the  stranger, 
Cuyahoga  feels  the  chain, 
Strangers'  ships  vex  Erie's  billows 

Strangers  plow  Scioto's  plain. 
And  the  Iroquois  have  wasted 

From  the  hill  and  plain  away ; 


"William  J.  Sperry  was  a  native  of  the  state  of  New  York.  He 
came  to  Ohio  in  1840  as  a  student  at  Oberlin  College.  In  Cincinnati  he 
was  associated  with  the  newspaper  press  and  as  a  writer  took  an  active 
part  in  the  anti-slavery  agitation.     He  died  in  California. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  63 


On  the  waters,  —  in  the  valley,  — 

Reigns  no  more  the  Seneca. 
Only  by  the  Cattaraugus,^^ 

Or  by  lake  Chautauqua's  side, 
Or  among  the  scanty  woodlands 

By  the  Alleghany's  tide — 
There,  in  spots,  hke  sad  oases, 

Lone  amid  the  sandy  plains, 
There  the  Seneca,  still  wasting. 

Amid  desolation  reigns. 


WENDING  WESTWARD. 

By  Dr.  W.  H.  Venable. 

A  new  star  rose  in  freedom's  sky 
A  hundred  years  ago ; 

It  gleamed  on  Labor's  wistful  eye, 
With  magnetic  glow. 

Hope  and  Courage  whispered.  Go, 
Ye  who  toil  and  ye  who  wait. 
Opportune,  in  star-light,  lo, 
Open  swings  the  People's  gate ! 

Beyond  the  mountains  and  under  the  skies 

Of  the  Wonderful  West  your  future  lies ; 
On  the  banks  of  the  Beautiful  River, 
By  the  shores  of  the  Lakes  of  the  North, 
There  fortune  to  each  will  deliver 
His  share  of  the  teeming  earth. 

Jocund  voices  called  him  from  the  dark 

Hesperian  solitude,  saying.  Hark  ! 

Hearken  ye  people ;  come  from  the  East, 

Come  from  the  marge  of  the  ocean,  come! 

Here  in  the  Wilderness  spread  a  feast. 

This  is  the  poor  man's  welcome  home ! 


°*  Cattaraugus  and  Chautauqua  refer  to  the  New  York  Indian  Reser- 
vations. 


64  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Hither  with  ax  and  plow, — 

(Carry  the  stripes  and  stars), 

Come  with  the  faith  and  the  vow 

Of  patriots  wearing  your  scars 
Like  trophies  upon  the  victorious  breast. 

Noblemen  —  wend  to  the  West. 
Load  your  rude  wagon  with  your  scanty  goods 

And  drive  to  the  plentiful  woods; 
Your  wheels  as  they  rumble  will  scare 

The  fleet-footed  deer  from  the  road, 
And  waken  the  sulky,  brown  bear 

In  his  long,  unmolested  abode ; 
The  Redman  shall  gaze  in  dumb  fear 

At  the  wain  of  the  strange  pioneer. 
His  barbarous  eyes  vainly  spell 

The  capital  letters  which  tell. 

That  the  White-foot  is  bound 

For  the  Hunter's  green  ground 

Where  the  bufifaloes  dwell. 

To  the  Ohio  Country,  move  on ! 
Bring  your  brain  and  your  brawn, 

(Some  books  of  the  best. 

Pack  into  the  chest!) 
Bring  your  wives  and  your  sons. 
Your  maidens  and  lisping  ones ; 

Your  trust  in  God  bring; 

Choose  a  spot  by  a  spring, 
And  build  you  a  castle  —  a  throne, 
A  palace  of  logs  —  blit  your  own  ! 

Happy  the  new-born  child, 
Nursed  in  the  greenwood  wild ; 

Though  his  cradle  be  only  a  trough. 

Account  him  well  off; 
For  born  to  the  purple  is  he — 
The  proud  royal  robe  of  the  Free ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  65 


For  the  latest  time  is  the  best, 
And  the  happiest  place  is  the  West, 
Where  man  shall  establish  anew 
Things  excellent,  beautiful,  true. 


THE  PIONEERS. 

By  Thomas  C.   Harbaugh.^^     (1849 — •) 

"I  walk  across  the  meadow  in  the  balmy  breath  of  spring; 
The  earliest  flowers  are  blooming  and  the  birds  are  all  a-wing, 
I  see  a  little  hillside  where  two  humble  stones  arise. 
And  mark  the  spot  where  sleep  the  dead  whose  memories  we 
prize. 

Beneath  their  axes  fell  the  trees,  their  rifles  sought  the  deer, 
They  struggled  with  that  fortitude  known  to  the  pioneer; 
They  met  the  redman  face  to  face,  as  eagles  they  were  free. 
And  owned  allegiance  to  no  king  who  ruled  across  the  sea. 

At  liberty's  immortal  shrine  they  worshipped  day  by  day, 
For  empire's  occidental  course  they  bravely  cleared  the  way ; 
With  hearts  of  oak  and  nerves  of  steel  and  healthy  brains,  I 

know, 
They  made  the  forests  blossom  like  a  garden  long  ago. 


"  Thomas  C.  Harbaugh  was  born  at  Middleton,  Md.  He  came  with 
his  parents  to  Piqua,  Ohio,  at  an  early  age.  Later  he  moved  to  Casstown, 
Miami  County,  where  he  still  resides.  His  literary  efforts  began  in  1867, 
and  he  has  since  contributed  to  many  prominent  journals  in  every  phase 
of  literature.  He  has  published  his  verse  in  three  volumes :  Maple 
Leaves  (1885),  Bugle  Notes  of  the  Blue  (1906),  Lyrics  of  the  Gray 
(1907).  His  works  of  fiction  are  numerous.  Among  the  most  prominent 
are  the  White  Squadron,  Janet  Sinclaire,  and  Robespiere.  He  is  a  fre- 
quent contributor  to  the  Sunday  papers.  His  productions  frequently  ap- 
pear in  the  Chicago  Ledger,  Youth's  Companion  and  Ohio  Farmer.  It  i.* 
said  he  visited  every  battle-field  of  the  Civil  War  to  gather  data  for  hiv- 
novels. 
5 


66  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

No  gilded  cradles  held  the  bab'es  the  mothers  loved  to  kiss, 
Where  howled  the  famished  wolf  at  night,  or  rose  the  serpent's 

hiss, 
And  where  she  led  them  unto  God  with  calm  and  tender  brow 
We  follow,  with  no  thought  of  her,  the  ever  busy  plow. 

No  longer  on  the  hillock's  side  rings  out  the  settler's  steel, 
No  longer  in  the  cabins  old  sings  low  the  spinning  wheel ; 
The  pioneers  have  vanished  like  the  billows  of  the  tide. 
With  here  and  there  a  stone  or  two  to  tell  us  where  tliey  died. 

So,  when  I  cross  the  meadow  in  the  balmy  breeze  of  spring, 
With  flowers  blooming  round  me  and  the  merry  birds  a-wing, 
It  is  to  part  the  grass  blades,  each  a  tiny  emerald  spear. 
And  read  upon  a  leaning  stone;  "Here  sleeps  a  pioneer." 

Then  comes  to  me  a  vision  of  the  brave,  the  true,  the  bold. 
An  era  grander,  greater  than  the  fabled  age  of  gold — 
When  the  misty  azure  mountains  'twixt  us  and  the  eastern  sea 
Heard  in  the  settlers'  march  the  tread  of  nations  yet  to  be. 

From  beyond  the  Alleghanies  came  that  small,  heroic  band. 
I  saw  them  cross  the  border  of  that  death-invested  land  ; 
No  obstacles  retard  their  march  and  dangers  lurk  in  vain, 
They  bliild  within  the  forest  and  they  rear  upon  the  plain. 

They  carve  a  way  for  progress  in  the  dark  and  lonely  wood, 
They  hold  the  savage  foe  at  bay,  they  triumph  o'er  the  flood ; 
And  commerce  follows  in  their  wake,  as  day  succeeds  the  night, 
And  fairer  beam  the  stars  that  shine  upon  our  banner  bright. 

All  honor  to  the  pioneers  whose  race  has  passed  away ! 
Their  deeds  have  won  a  fame  that  lasts  forever  and  a  day  ; 
And  when  I  part  the  tender  grass  upon  the  hillside  fair 
I  do  it  gently  for  I  know  the  brave  hearts  resting  there. 

The  homes  they  wrested  from  the  wilds  they  left  to  you  and  me, 
We  drew  from  those  heroic  souls  our  love  of  liberty ; 
The  rights  that  we  enjoy  today  they  battled  to  maintain, 
And  God,  for  them,  has  blessed  us  upon  every  hill  and  plain. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  67 

THE  FOREST  RANGERS.^« 

By  Andrew  Coffinberry."^ 
the  capture. 

Sweet  genius  of  the  forest  shade, 

Where  nature's  treasures  bloom, 
Where  Flora  decorates  the  glade 

As  stars  the  heavens  illume, 
And  ever  with  her  fragrant  breath, 

The  summer  zephyr  feeds. 
As  light  they  skim  o'er  moor  and  heath 

And  kiss  her  brier-rose  meads : 
Deign  thy  enchantment  to  impart, 

To  fan  the  latent  flame 
That  swells  and  animates  his  heart, 

A  bard  without  a  name, 
Who  fain  would  sing  of  wild  wood  fare. 

The  redman's  vast  retreat. 
And  paints  its  ills  and  terrors  where 

Its  varied  evils  meet. 
How  little  know  mankind  at  large, 

Of   vivid   joys   or  pains, 
Whose  chief  solicitude,  or  charge 

Is  to  enhance  their  gains. 
O !  how  exciting  is  his  life. 

Who  threads  the  western  brakes ; 
Whose  mind,  inured  to  deadly  strife, 

To  all  its  danger  wakes. 


"The  Forest  Rangers,  a  poetic  tale  of  the  Western  wilderness  in 
1794,  is  a  poem  of  seven  cantos,  published  in  1842.  The  above  constitute 
the  opening  lines.  It  is  meant  to  narrate  the  events  connected  with  the 
march  and  battle  of  General  Wayne's  army. 

°'  Andrew  Coffinberry  was  a  Virginian  of  German  descent.  He  served 
three  years  before  the  mast.  He  came  to  Mansfield  and  became  a  lawyer 
in  1818.     He  was  nick-named  'The  Count." 


Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Then  genius  of  the  forest  wild, 

Thy  witching  tribute  bring, 
Inspire  thy  unsophistic  child. 

Thy  sylvan  scenes  to  sing. 

II. 

As  on  a  cloudless  morn  in  May 

The  sun  upreared  his  gilded  ray, 

And  rising  o'er  the  shady  land, 

Displayed  his  glories,  bright  and  bland. 

And  soaring  in  maturer  day 

Drank  crystal  dew  from  every  spray. 

Enamored  with  his  genial  blaze 

The  woodland  warblers  woke  their  lays. 

Till  the  extended  forest  rung 

With  joyous  notes  of  sylvan  song. 

Then  where  its  deep  entangled  maze 

Embosomed  close  the  dark  Auglaize, 

A  wildered  stranger  in  the  land. 

All  drenched  with  dew-drops,  reached  her  strand. 

He  cautious  trod  the  brush-wood  o'er. 

Until  he  reached  the  rivers'  shore. 

Then  bended  low,  his  brow  to  lave 

Beneath  her  cool  and  limpid  wave, 

To  sooth  and  calm  his  fevered  blood; 

Then  slaked  his  thirst  from  her  pure  flood  — 

Arising  then  erect  he  stood, 

And  seemed  the  genius  of  the  wood. 

III. 

Such  symmetry  displayed  each  part, 
'Twas  subject  meet  for  Grecian  art, 
For  ne'er  did  artist's  chisel  trace 
A  form  or  mien  of  nobler  grace : 
The  man  was  six  feet  high  in  stature ; 
Genius  and  beauty  marked  each  feature, 


Poems  on  Ohio.  69 


And  whosoever  glanced  on  him, 
Discerned  Herculean  strength  of  limb; 
In  his  elastic  step  was  traced 
Sure  evidence  of  restless  haste; 
His  age,  though  under  twenty-four, 
From  recent  suffering  now  seemed  more : 
Upon  his  graceful  dress  of  green. 
Sprinkles  of  recent  blood  were  seen. 
To  guard  him  from  hostile  attacks, 
He  bore  a  rifle,  dirk  and  axe ; 
And  his  flushed  countenance  and  eyes 
Betokened  thoughts  of  bold  emprise  — 
His  life  seemed  cast  on  some  adventure, 
Of  all  his  consciousness  the  center. 

IV. 

The  stranger  here  surveyed  each  pass  — 

Each  inlet,  copse  and  soft  morass, 

Observant  still  of  every  sound 

That  woke  the  solitude  around ; 

And  every  impress  of  the  sand, 

His  restless  eye  with  caution  scanned, 

Then  warily  did  he  unpack 

The  contents  of  his  scanty  sack, 

And  ate  with  vigilance  and  haste. 

Of  hardened  deers'  flesh,  his  repast : 

Repacking  then  his  little  store. 

He  turned  him  from  the  oozy  shore. 

And  thence  his  lonely  way  pursued, 

Northwardly  through  the  cumbering  wood 

On  the  west  bank  of  the  Auglaize, 

Threading  with  care  the  thicket's  maze. 

As  eagerly  he  wended  on, 

His  glance  was  ever  and  anon 

Bent  through  the  darkling  forest  shade. 

Lest  foeman,  crouched  in  ambuscade, 


70  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Should  stealthily,  unseen  or  heard, 
Meet  him  with  weapons  ready  bared ; 
From  hostile  rifles  naught  was  feared, 
So  dense  the  tangled  copse  appeared. 


'Twas  seventeen  hundred  and  ninety-four, 

And  all  the  west  was  peopled  o'er 

With  painted  warriors  of  the  wood, 

Who  ever  vengefuUy  pursued 

Such  of  the  pale  faced  bands  as  strayed 

Too  near  their  bloody  ambuscade. 

Here  mustered  strong  the  Kaskaskies, 

Wyandots  and  Miamies. 

Also  the  Pottawatamies, 

The  Delawares  and  Chippewas, 

The  Kickapoos  and  Ottawas, 

And  Shawanoes  and  many  strays 

From  almost  every  Indian  Nation, 

Had  joined  the  fearless  congregation: 

Who,  after  St.  Clair's  dread  defeat 

Returned  to  this  secure  retreat : 

Here,  through  the  forest  far  and  near 

They  daily  chased  the  timid  deer, 

And  battened  on  his  dainty  flesh  — 

Oft  to  arouse  their  thirst  afresh 

For  human  sacrifice  and  blood 

And  renovate  their  warring  mood 

They  led  some  victim  to  the  stake  — 

Some  white  man  captured  in  the  brake ; 

Else  fated  settler  dragged  in  strife 

From  his  lone  home,  with  frantic  wife 

That  heard  her  suckling's  shrieks  and  cries 

When  butchered  there  before  her  eyes. 

VI. 

And  thus  the  ruthless  savage  Legion 
Held  all  tlie  trackless  w  cstern  region 


Poems  on  Ohio.  71 


Save  where  the  band  of  gallant  Wayne 
Lay  further  westward  in  campaign  :®*'' 
Though  limited  was  Wayne's  command, 
The  world  knew  not  a  braver  band , 
As  in  seclusion  there  they  dwelt, 
They  for  their  bleeding  country  felt 
And  meditated  'gainst  the  foe, 
To  strike  a  deep  decisive  blow, 
And  die  each  man  with  arms  in  hand 
Or  of  the  murderers  free  the  land. 
But  now  who  ventured  here  to  stray 
Was  deemed  to  cast  his  life  away, 
For  border  men  were  doomed  to  feel 
The  savage  prowler's  lead  or  steel. 

VII. 

The  daring  settlers  far  and  near 
Through  all  the  western  broad  frontier, 
Were  destined  to  a  scene  of  strife 
Where  many  a  brave  lay  down  his  life ; 
Night  ever  found  them  on  their  guard, 
Lest  prowlers  met  them  unprepared ; 
And  each  log  cabin  then  was  made 
A  garrison,  their  strength  to  aid. 
And  garrisons  of  prouder  name 
The  favorite  resorts  of  fame 
Did  never  nurture  braver  bands 
Than  settlers  of  the  frontier  lands 
Yet  oft  by  numbers  overborne, 
Their  wives  and  infants  thence  were  torn, 
Or  in  their  humble  homes  entombed. 
Were  by  the  dreaded  flames  consumed. 
The  warlike  fathers  falling  first, 
By  severed  brain  or  mortal  thrust. 
Were  spared  the  sight  of  many  a  scene 
That  wrenched  a  mother's  heart  in  twain. 


At  Fort  Wayne. 


72  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

VIII. 

When  Sol's  decline  in  western  heaven, 
Advanced  the  lengthened  shades  of  even, 
The  stranger  musing  sad  of  heart, 
Sighed  for  some  safe  retreat,  apart 
From  the  resorts  of  savage  men 
And  beasts  of  prey,  in  some  lone  glen, 
\\'here  for  the  night  he  might  repose 
In  less  exposure  to  his  foes ; 
For  in  advance  he  heard  loud  yells 
Of  savages  and  sound  of  bells; 
Betokening  that  some  point  he  neared 
\\'here  foes  in  numbers  to  be  feared. 
Resided,  or  collected  for 
Fresh  feats  of  murderous  border  war. 
Besides  his  store  of  meat  grew  short 
And  shooting  here  was  dangerous  sport. 
For  his  good  rifle's  piercing  crack 
Might  call  forth  odds  upon  his  track. 
For  here  might  murky  hosts  abound 
Far  better  missed  by  him  than  found. 

IX. 

His  apprehensions  all  were  right. 
For  in  advance  almost  in  sight 
Lay  modern  Ockenoxy*^  village, 
Where  warriors  were  dividing  pillage; 
Assorting  out  with  jealous  care 
And  giving  each  his  destined  share 
Of  plunder  snatched  from  the  frontier, 
And  late  supplies  of  bear  and  deer. 
As  on  the  east  the  river  lay, 
He  westward  turned  his  weary  way; 


"  The  site  of  "Ockenoxy  village"  was  at  Charloc.  The  original 
county-seat  town  of  Paulding  County.  It  was  situated  about  twelve  miles 
south  of  the  present  city  of  Defiance. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  73 


Through  matted  shrubbery,  with  pain 
He  struggled  on  with  Httle  gain 
Of  distance,  till  the  stars  appeared 
And  then  some  open  space  he  neared ; 
Anon  he  found  it  a  morass, 
Extremely  difficult  to  pass. 
With  high  resolve  and  effort  strong 
From  tuft  to  tuft  he  forward  sprung ; 
Now  heard  the  wolf  with  surly  growl, 
Responding  to  the  panther's  howl. 
And  as  the  panther  near  advanced, 
To  every  point  the  stranger  glanced. 
Yet  nothing  met  his  eager  sight 
Affording  means  to  strike  a  light. 
To  terrify  the  ravenous  beast 
That  threatened  on  his  flesh  to  feast. 

X. 

As  on  he  strained  his  watchful  eyes 

Thus  did  the  man  soliloquize: 

"Is  this  the  sequel  of  the  past, 

To  die  by  this  fierce  beast  at  last? 

Is  this  unlooked  for  immolation. 

Of  my  bright  hopes  the  consummation? 

O !  fickle  fancy  how  alluring ; 

Now  threatening  and  then  reassuring — 

This  bubble  life  seems  but  the  prey 

Of  stormy  impulse  day  by  day ; 

But  late  so  many  perils  past 

Strange  it  should  be  thus  wrecked  at  last 

These  new-born  visions  of  my  mind, 

Should  be  to  early  tombs  consigned  — 

I  deemed  my  life  destined  to  prove 

A  scene  of  glowing  sun  bright  love ; 

But  now  its  sun  is  overcast 

And  this  drear  night  may  prove  my  last ; 


74  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Well,  be  it  so,  'tis  but  a  life  — 
Yet  better  were  it  sped  in  strife 
And  bold  encounter  with  yon  race, 
Whose  deeds  the  human  would  disgrace ; 
Then  might  his  well  strung  arm  exchange 
Some  sturdy  blows  in  sweet  revenge; 
Then  should  I  die  with  heart  elate 
Compared  with  this  unlooked  for  fate.  — 
Come  death  or  danger,  weal  or  woe, 
Yet  shall  this  arm  some  action  show  — 
'Gainst  such  a  foe  and  in  the  dark, 
'Twere  strange  I  should  not  miss  my  mark." 


THE  EMIGRANT. 

By  Frederick  W.  Thomas-'^     (1811-1866.) 

the  pioneer  hunters. 
Here  once  Boone  trod — the  hardy  pioneer — 
The  only  white  man  in  the  wilderness; 
Oh,  how  he  loved  alone  to  hunt  the  deer, 
Alone  at  eve  his  simple  meal  to  dress ; 
No  mark  upon  the  tree,  nor  print  nor  track, 
To  lead  him  forward  nor  to  guide  him  back ; 
He  roved  the  forest,  king  by  main  and  might, 
And  looked  up  to  the  sky  and  shaped  his  course  aright. 


"^  Frederick  William  Thomas  was  born  in  Charleston,  South  Carolina. 
At  the  age  of  seventeen  he  began  the  study  of  law.  A  year  later  he 
wrote  a  political  satire,  which  caused  the  office  of  the  newspaper,  in  which 
it  was  published,  to  be  mobbed.  He  came  to  Cincinnati  in  1830,  where 
a  part  of  "The  Emigrant"  was  published.  Two  years  later  he  gave  it 
in  the  Young  Men's  Lyceum  of  that  city  and  so  favorable  was  its  re- 
ception that  he  was  asked  to  publish  it.  It  was  quite  popular,  extracts  of 
it  being  reprinted  in  many  of  the  best  periodicals  of  the  country.  Mr. 
Thomas  was  connected  with  many  of  the  western  papers  and  was  quite 
popular  as  a  platform  speaker.  In  1841  Thomas  Ewing  appointed  him  to 
select  a  library  for  the  Treasury  Department.  Later  he  became  a  pro- 
fessor in  the  Alabama  University. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  75 

That  mountain  there  that  lifts  its  bald  high  head 

Above  the  forest,  was,  perchance,  his  throne; 

There  has  he  stood  and  marked  the  woods  outspread, 

Like  a  great  kingdom  that  was  all  his  own  ; 

In  hunting  shirt  and  moccasins  arrayed, 

With  bear-skin  cap,  and  pouch  and  needful  blade. 

How  carelessly  he  lean'd  upon  his  gun ! 

That  scepter  of  the  wild  that  had  so  often  won. 

Those  western  pioneers  an  impulse  felt, 

Which  their  less  hardy  sons  scarce  comprehend ; 

Alone  in  Nature's  wildest  scenes  they  dwelt; 

Where  crag  and  precipice  and  torrent  blend, 

And  stretched  around  the  wilderness  as  rude 

As  the  red  rovers  of  its  solitude, 

Who  watched  their  coming  with  a  hate  profound, 

And  fought  with  deadly  strife  for  every  inch  of  ground. 

To  shun  a  greater  ill  sought  they  the  wild  ? 

No.  they  left  happier  lands  behind  them  far, 

And  brought  the  nursing  mother  and  her  child 

To  share  the  dangers  of  the  border  war; 

The  log-built  cabin  from  the  Indian  barred. 

Their  little  boy,  perchance,  kept  watch  and  ward. 

While  father  plowed  with  rifle  at  his  back. 

Or  sought  the  glutted  foe  through  many  a  devious  track. 

How  cautiously,  yet  fearlessly,  that  boy 

Would  search  the  forest  for  the  wild  beast's  lair, 

And  lift  his  rifle  with  a  hurried  joy 

If  chance  he  spied  the  Indian  lurking  there: 

And  should  they  bear  him  prisoner  from  the  fight, 

While  they  were  sleeping  in  the  dead  midnight. 

He  slips  the  thongs  that  bind  him  to  the  tree 

And  leaving  death  with  them,  bounds  home  right  happily. 

Before  the  mother,  bursting  through  the  door. 

The  red  man  rushes  where  her  infants  rest ; 

O  God !  he  hurls  them  on  the  cabin  floor ! 

While  she,  down  kneeling,  clasps  them  to  her  breast. 


76  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

How  he  exults  and  revels  in  her  woe, 
And  lifts  the  weapon  yet  delays  the  blow; 
Ha,  that  report !  behold !  he  reels !  he  dies ! 
And  quickly  to  her  arms  the  husband-father-flies. 

In  the  long  winter  eve  their  cabin  fast 
The  big-  logs  blazing  in  the  chimney  wide — 
They'd  hear  the  Indian  howling  or  the  blast, 
And  deem  themselves  in  castellated  pride : 
Then  would  the  fearless  forester  disclose 
Most  strange  adventures  with  his  sylvan  foes. 
Of  how  his  arts  did  over  theirs  prevail 
And  how  he  followed  far  upon  their  bloody  trail. 

And  it  was  happiness,  they  said,  to  stand, 

When  summer  smiled  upon  them  in  the  wood 

And  see  their  little  clearing  there  expand. 

And  be  the  masters  of  the  solitude. 

Danger  was  but  excitement ;  and  when  came 

The  tide  of  emigration,  life  grew  tame; 

Then  would  they  seek  some  unknown  wild  anew, 

And  soon  above  the  trees  the  smoke  was  curling  blue. 

The  Red  Man. 

How  patient  was  that  red  man  of  the  wood ! 

Not  like  the  white  man  garrulous  of  ill — 

Starving?  who  heard  his  faintest  wish  for  food? 

Sleeping  upon  the  snow-drift  on  the  hill ! 

Who  heard  him  chide  the  blast  or  say  'twas  cold? 

His  wounds  are  freezing !  is  the  anguish  told  ? 

Tell  him  his  child  is  murdered  with  its  mother ! 

He  seems  like  carved  out  stone  that  has  no  woe  to  smother. 

With  front  erect,  up-looking,  dignified 
Behold  high  Hecla  in  eternal  snows ! 
Yet  while  the  raging  tempest  is  defied, 
Deep  in  its  bosom  how  the  pent  flame  glows ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  77 

And  when  it  bursts  forth  in  its  fiery  wrath ! 

How  melts  the  ice-hill  from  its  fearful  path, 

As  on  it  rolls,  unquenched,  and  all  untamed ! — 

Thus  was  it  with  that  chief  when  his  wild  passions  flamed. 

Nature's  own  statesman — by  experience  taught, 

He  judged  most  wisely  and  could  act  as  well ; 

With  quickest  glance  could  read  another's  thought, 

His  own,  the  while,  the  keenest  could  not  tell; 

Warrior — with  skill  to  lengthen  or  combine. 

Lead  on  or  back,  the  desultory  line ; 

Hunter— he  passed  the  trackless  forest  through, 

Now  on  the  mountain  trod,  now  launched  the  light  canoe. 

To  the  Great  Spirit  would  his  spirit  bow. 
With  hopes  that  Nature's  impulses  impart ; 
Unlike  the  Christian,  who  just  says  his  vow 
With  heart  enough  to  say  it  all  by  heart. 
Did  we  his  virtues  from  his  faults  discern, 
'Twould  teach  a  lesson  that  we  well  might  learn: 
An  inculcation  worthiest  of  our  creed, 
To  tell  the  simple  truth  and  do  the  promised  deed. 

How  deeply  eloquent  was  the  debate. 

Beside  the  council  fire  of  those  red  men ! 

With  language  burning  as  his  sense  of  hate ; 

With  gesture  just;  as  eye  of  keenest  ken; 

With  illustration  simple  but  profound. 

Drawn  from  the  sky  above  him  or  the  ground 

Beneath  his  feet ;  and  with  unfaltering  zeal. 

He  spoke  from  a  warm  heart  and  made  e'en  cold  hearts  feel. 

And  this  is  eloquence.     'Tis  the  intense, 

Impassioned  fervor  of  a  mind  deep  fraught 

With  native  energy,  when  soul  and  sense 

Burst  forth,  embodied  in  the  btirning  thought; 

When  look,  emotion,  tone,  are  all  combined — 

When  the  whole  man  is  eloquent  with  mind — 

A  power  that  comes  not  to  the  call  or  quest, 

But  from  the  gifted  soul  and  the  deep  feeling  breast. 


78  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  F'nblications. 

Poor  Logan®^  had  it  when  he  mourned  that  none 
Were  left  to  mourn  for  him ; — 'twas  his  who  swayed 
The  Roman  Senate  by  a  look  or  tone ; 
'Twas  the  Athenian's  when  his  foes,  dismayed, 
Shrunk  from  the  earthquake  of  his  trumpet  call; 
'Twas  Chatham's*'*  strong  as  either,  or  as  all ; 
'Twas  Henry's  "^  holiest,  when  his  spirit  woke 
Our  patriot  fathers'  zeal  to  burst  the  British  yoke. 


TO  THE  OHIO. 


Auspicious  Time !  unroll  the  scroll  of  years — 

Behold  our  pious  pilgrim  fathers,  when 

They  launch'd  their  little  bark,  and  braved  all  fears. 

Those  peril-seeking,  freedom-loving  men ! 

Bless  thee  thou  stream!  abiding  blessings  bless 

Thy  farthest  wave — Nile®®  of  the  wilderness ! 

And  be  thy  broad  lands  peopled  far  and  wide. 

With  hearts  as  free  as  his  who  now  doth  bless  thy  tide 

And  may  new  states  arise,  and  stretch  afar, 
In  glory  to  the  great  Pacific  shore — 
A  galaxy,  without  a  falling  star — 
Freedom's  own  Mecca,  where  the  world  adore. 
There  may  Art  build-to  Knowledge  there  be  given. 
The  book  of  Nature  and  the  light  of  Heav'n ; 
There  be  the  statesman's  and  the  patriot's  shrine. 
And  Oh,  b'e  happy  there,  the  hearts  that  woo  the  nine.®^ 


"'Logan,  the  Mingo  Chieftain,  in  Dunmore's  War  (See  Logan  Elm, 
ante  ) . 

•^William  Pitt,  who  became  Earl  of  Chatham  and  is  esteemed  by 
Americans  for  his  defense  of  their  cause. 

""Patrick  Henry,  in  his  elegant  speech  before  the  Virginia  Conven- 
tion. 

•""Nile  of  the  Wilderness."  — The  Ohio. 

"The  Nine  Muses,  who  presided  over  song  and  the  different  kinds 
of  poetry  and  also  the  arts  and  sciences. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  79 

There  is  a  welcome  in  this  western  land 

Like  the  old  welcomes  which  were  said  to  give 

The  friendly  heart  where'er  they  gave  the  hand ; 

Within  this  soil  the  social  virtues  live, 

Like  its  own  forest  trees,  unpruned  and  free — 

At  least  there  is  one  welcome  here  for  me: 

A  breast  that  pillowed  all  my  sorrows  past, 

And  waits  my  coming  now  and  lov'd  me  first  and  last. 


THE  BACKWOODSMAN.«« 

By  Ephraim  Peabody. 

The  silent  wilderness  for  me! 

Where  never  sound  is  heard. 
Save  the  rustling  of  the  squirrel's  foot 

And  the  flitting  wing  of  bird. 
Or  its  low  and  interrupted  note, 

And  the  deer's  quick,  crackling  tread 
And  the  swaying  of  the  forest  boughs 

As  the  wind  moves  overhead. 

Alone,  (how  glorious  to  be  free!) 

My  good  dog  at  my  side, 
My  rifle  hanging  in  my  arm 

I  range  the  forests  wide. 
And  now  the  regal  buffalo 

Across  the  plains  I  chase; 
Now  track  the  mountain  stream  to  find 

The  beaver's  lurking  place. 


*'  'The  early  pioneers  in  the  settlement  of  Ohio  were  very  noble 
men,  intellectually,  morally  and  religiously.  They  were  men  who  recog- 
nized God  as  our  common  Father,  and  all  men  as  brothers.  In  heart 
and  life  they  wished  to  adopt  the  fundamental  rule  of  Christianity  in 
their  intercourse  with  their  fellow  men."     Abbot's  History  of  Ohio. 


80  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

I  stand  upon  the  mountain's  top 

And   (solitude  profound!) 
Not  even  a  woodman's  smoke  curls  up 

Within  the  horizon's  bound. 
Below,  as  o'er  its  ocean  breadth 

The  air's  light  currents  run, 
The  wilderness  of  moving  leaves 

Is  glancing  in  the  sun. 

I  look  around  to  where  the  sky 

Meets  the  far  forest  line, 
And  this  imperial  domain  — 

This  kingdom  —  all  is  mine. 
This  bending  heaven  —  these  floating  clouds  — 

Waters  that  ever  roll  — 
And  wilderness  of  glory,  bring 

Their  offerings  to  my  soul. 

My  palace  built  by  God's  own  hand. 

The  world's  fresh  prime  hath  seen; 
Wide  stretch  its  living  halls  away, 

Pillared  and  roofed  with  green. 
My  music  is  the  wind  that  now 

Pours  loud  its  swelling  bars, 
Now  lulls  in  dying  cadences  — 

My  festal  lamps  are  stars. 

Though  when,  in  this  my  lonely  home, 

My  star-watched  couch  I  press, 
I  hear  no  fond  "good  night"  —  think  not 

I  am  companionless. 
O  no!  I  see  my  father's  house. 

The  hill,  the  tree,  the  stream. 
And  the  looks  and  voices  of  my  home 

Come  gently  to  my  dream. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  81 


And  in  these  solitary  haunts, 

While  slumbers  every  tree 
In  night  and  silence,  God  himself 

Seems  nearer  unto  me. 
I  feel  his  presence  in  these  shades 

Like  the  embracing  air ; 
And  as  my  eye-lids  close  in  sleep 

My  heart  is  hushed  in  prayer. 


CROSSING  THE  ALLEGHANIES. 

By  Mrs.  Laura  M.  Thurston.     (i8i2-i842.)«» 

The  broad,  the  bright,  the  glorious  West, 

Is  spread  before  me  now  ! 
Where  the  gray  mists  of  morning  rest 

Beneath  yon  mountain's  brow ! 
The  bound  is  past  —  the  goal  is  won  — 
The  region  of  the  setting  sun 

Is  open  to  my  view. 
Land  of  the  valiant  and  the  free  — 
My  own  Green  Mountain  land  —  to  thee 

And  thine,  a  long  adieu ! 

I  hail  thee,  Valley  of  the  West, 

For  what  thou  yet  shalt  be ! 
I  hail  thee  for  the  hopes  that  rest 

Upon  thy  destiny! 


"Laura  M.  Hawley  was  born  in  Norfolk,  Connecticut.  She  re- 
ceived her  education  at  the  Hartford  Female  Seminary.  Upon  leaving 
school  she  became  a  teacher,  first  in  Hartford,  later  in  New  Bedford 
and  then  in  Philadelphia.  From  here  she  went  to  New  Albany,  Indiana, 
to  take  charge  of  a  young  women's  academy.  Here  she  married  Frank- 
lin Thurston  in  1839.  Her  untimely  death  three  years  later  no  doubt 
cut  short  the  career  of  a  writer  with  a  deep  poetic  mind. 


82  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Here  —  from  this  mountain  height  I  see 
Thy  bright  waves  floating  to  the  sea, 

Thine  emerald  fields  outspread. 
And  feel  that  in  the  book  of  fame 
Proudly  shall  thy  recorded  name 

In  later  days  be  read. 

Yet  while  I  gaze  upon  thee  now, 

All  glorious  as  thou  art, 
A  cloud  is  resting  on  my  brow, 

A  weight  upon  my  heart. 
To  me  —  in  all  thy  youthful  pride  — 
Thou  art  a  land  of  cares  untried, 

Of  untold  hopes  and  fears. 
Thou  art  —  yet  not  for  thee  I  grieve ; 
But  for  the  far-ofif  land  I  leave, 

I  look  on  thee  with  tears. 

O !  brightly,  brightly  glow  thy  skies 

In  summer's  sunny  hours! 
The  green  earth  seems  a  paradise 

Arrayed  in  summer  flowers  I 
But  oh,  there  is  a  land  afar 
Whose  skies  to  me  are  brighter  far 

Along  the  Atlantic  shore ! 
For  eyes  beneath  their  radiant  shrine, 
In  kindlier  glances  answered  mine  — 

Can  these  their  light  restore? 

Upon  the  lofty  bound  I  stand 

That  parts  the  East  and  West ; 
Before  me  —  lies  a  fairy  land  ; 

Behind  —  a  home  of  rest ! 
Here,  hope  her  wild  enchantment  flings. 
Portrays  all  bright  and  lovely  things, 

My  foot-steps  to  allure  — 
But  there  in  memory's  light  I  see 
All  that  was  once  most  dear  to  me  — 

My  young  heart's  cynosure ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  83 

THE  WESTERN  PIONEER. 

By  John  J.  Piatt.     (1835-     .y 

Into  the  prairies'  boundless  blossom, 
Into  the  wide  West's  sunburnt  bosom. 

The  earliest  emigrants  came : 
The  flowers  like  sunny  miracles,  grew 
Before  them,  fragrant  from  the  dew, 

Filling  the  grass  like  flame! 

From  some  old  land  of  song  and  life — 
Of  man  in  manhood's  glowing  strife, 

Departing  all  alone, 
And  journeying  with  the  journeying  sun. 
They  came — their  busy  empire  won — 

Before  the  white  man  known. 

The  Indian  saw  the  moving  bees, 

From  flower  to  flower,  in  dream-like  breeze 

Blowing  their  pilgrim  way; 
Or,  deep  in  honey  of  the  flower 
Hanging  in  sunshine  hour  by  hour, 

Dream  through  the  dreaming  day. 


"John  James  Piatt  was  born  at  James's  Mills,  in  Ohio  County, 
Indiana.  At  the  age  of  ten  he  went  with  his  parents  to  Columbus,  Ohio. 
When  fourteen  years  old  he  attended  the  High  School  and  Capital  Uni- 
versity and  later,  Kenyon  College,  where  he  began  his  verse  making. 
In  1856  he  accompanied  his  parents  to  Illinois.  Here  he  wrote  three 
lyrics,  that  attracted  such  men  as  James  Russell  Lowell  to  his  genius, 
who  published  "The  Morning  Street"  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly.  Upon 
revisiting  Columbus,  Mr.  Piatt  renewed  his  acquaintance  with  William 
Dean  Howells,  editor  of  the  State  Journal  and  the  two  published  a  joint 
volume  of  verse  under  the  caption,  "Poems  of  Two  Friends."  He  has 
held  some  official  positions  in  Washington,  but  he  is  best  known  and 
loved  for  his  poetry  which  has  the  swing  and  soul  of  Western  ideals. 
Literary  critics  are  agreed  in  calling  John  James  Piatt  "  a  poet  of  power 
and    refinement." 


84  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

He  saw  the  future's  garment  gleam 

O'er  mounds  of  tribes  and  legend-streams — 

O'er  the  sweet  waste  of  flowers; 
He  saw  his  hunting  ground — the  past ! 
Lit  with  the  domes  of  cities  vast — 

Glory  of  spires  and  towers ! 

Those  other  bees !     He  felt — he  saw, 
With  sorrowing  eye,  in  dreamy  awe, 

The  blossoms  of  the  West 
Thrill  with  sunny  toiling  bees 
Of  busy  Freedom,  happy  Peace — 

Wide  blessings  and  the  bless'd. 

They  come  !     They  came  !     Lo !  they  are  here ! 
The  Indian  heart-beat  everywhere 

Starts  echoes  wild  no  more ; 
The  leaves  have  fallen  from  his  trees 
Of  life :  dead  leaves,  in  every  breeze. 

Rustle  forevermore ! 


MAHONING  VALLEY  PIONEERS'  REUNION,  SEPT. 
loth,  1877. 

By  Mrs.  Kate  B.  Sherwood. 

Read  on  the  occasion  by  Miss  Jennie  Arms. 
A  sturdy  Yankee  race  were  they 

Who  swept  the  Indian  from  his  trail, 
And  set  the  humming  mills  to  play 

In  all  the  sweet  Mahoning  vale ; 

Broad-shouldered,   strong,   and   lithe   of   limb, 
Keen-eyed  and  swift  of  heart  and  hand, 

Full-bearded,  tawny  faced  and  grim 

With  watch  and  toil  in  hostile  land; 


Poems  on  Ohio.  •    85 

But  light  of  heart  and  quick  to  fling 

The  thoughts  of  hardship  to  the  breeze, 

Whose  hopes  like  eagles  on  the  wing 
Dipped  never  lower  than  the  trees. 

Men  born  to  manly  deeds,  to  row 

And  run  and  wrestle,  plant  and  plow, 

To  girdle  forests,  speed  the  bow 

And  pluck  the  game  from  copse  and  bough. 

Men  keen  of  aim,  who  never  lost 

A  bird  swift  speeding  in  his  flight, 
Who  held  their  own  at  any  cost 

If  there  were  foes  to  toil  or  fight. 

A  comely  race  of  women  they 

Sweet-eyed  and  slender,  with  a  grace 

That  comes  from  gentlest  sympathy 

Who  with  those  pioneers  kept  pace ; 

Who  held  it  good  to  follow  where 

Their  love  and  faith  sent  on  before, 
Who  held  it  were  a  shame  to  spare 

Themselves  the  toil  their  husbands  bore; 

Wise-hearted  women,  who  were  taught 
To  sew  and  spin,  to  bake  and  brew, 

Who  knew  the  virtue  of  a  thought 
Is  in  the  virtue  of  a  stew. 

Brown,  curling  locks  and  eyes  like  doves. 
Light  Saxon  braids  and  eyes  of  blue, 

But  shining  from  them  all  the  loves 
Of  loyal  faith  intense  and  true. 

"For  better  or  for  worse,"  said  they 

Low  bending  at  the  altar,  then 
Arose  and  calmly  rode  away 

The    earnest    wives    of    earnest    men ; 


S6  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Away  through  forest  dim  and  drear, 
By  river  ford,  by  mountain  crest, 

Until  they  found  and  nurtured  here 

The  new  New  England  of  the  west. 

It  is  no  little  thing  to  break 

One  after  one  the  forest  bands, 

For  nature  ever  wide-awake 

Repairs  each  breach  with  jealous  hands; 

She  sends  the  fever  and  the  cold, 

She  sends  the  famine  pale  and  bowed. 

She  sends  the  wolf  upon  the  fold, 

She  sends  the  coffin  and  the  shroud. 

And  in  their  cabins  rude  and  bare 
How  many  long  with  dying  eyes. 

For  one  sweet  glimpse  of  native  air 

Where  happy  homes  of  childhood  rise ! 

But,  when  as  on  a  hostile  height 
The  ensign  has  his  colors  set. 

A  shouting  army  hails  the  sight 
And  swarm  upon  the  parapet. 

So  came  the  tide  of  sturdy  worth, 

To  swell  the  new  New  England  band; 

The  Scotchman  with  his  pride  of  birth 
And  merry  heart  and  canny  hand ; 

The  quick  impulsive  Irish  lad ; 

The   Teuton,   staunch   and   slow   of    fears: 
A  sprinkling  of  all  lands  they  had 

That  grow  the  stuff  of  pioneers. 

The  axes  ring,  the  clearings  spread. 

The  cornfields  wimple  in  the  sun ; 

The  cabin  walls  were  over-spread 

With  trophies  of  the  trap  and  gun. 


Poems  on  Oliio.  87 

And  from  the  hearths  of  glowing  logs 

The  children's  shouts  begin  to  ring, 
Or,  in  the  lanes  as  through  the  fogs 

They  carry  water  from  the  spring, — 

Stout,  rosy  boys  and  girls  are  they 

Whose  heads  scarce  reach  the  dipping  boughs, 
Who  learn  their  first  philosphy 

While  driving  home  the  cows. 

And  now  the  gospel  tents  are  spread 

On  hill-side  or  on  river  ford. 
Rude  Tabernacles  shadowed 

By  presence  of  the  living  lord ; 

And  schools  arise,  and  courts  of  law 

To  settle  boundaries.     The  arts 
Of  law  they  value  not  a  straw 

Who  carry  justice  in  their  hearts. 

The  years  go  by !  and  towns  arise, 

And  flocks  of  cattle  dot  the  hills ; 
The  lumbering  stage-coach  onward  hies, 

The  boat-horn  makes  responsive  thrills. 

The  years  go  by !  and  mines  give  up 

The  tawny  treasures  that  they  hold; 
And  lo,  a  Midas  touch !  whose  cup 

Receives  them  has  been  turned  to  gold. 

The  years  go  by !  men  throng  around 

To  see  the  wires  that  span  the  poles. 
And  while  they  doubt,  a  humming  sound 

And  lo,  the  electric  current  rolls. 

The  years  go  by !  a  rush,  a  scream, 

A  sudden  shivering  of  the  vales. 
The  flashing  of  an  angry  gleam. — 

The  railroad  king  pursues  his  trails. 


Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

The  years  go  by !  the  calls  come  fast 
For  volunteers  and  not  in  vain; 

Our  soldiers  made  a  living  past 

Of  Bunker's  Hill  and  Lundy's  Lane. 

The  years  go  by !  and  cities  hum 

And  mine  and  mill  are  throbbing  fast; 
The  nations  to  our  markets  come 

And  bear  away  some  Titan  cast. 

O  proud  Mahoning!  like  a  queen 

Set  crowned  and  dowered  in  the  west! 
The  wealth  of  kingdoms  gleam  between 

Her  jewelled  brow  and  jewelled  breast. 

O  valley,  rich  in  fertile  plain, 

In  mighty  forest,  fair  and  tall. 
In  waving  wealths  of  corn  and  grain, 

In  pictured  glen  and  water-fall. 
O  valley,  where  the  panting  forge 

Has  stirred  the  bosom  of  the  world, 
'Till  lo,  in  every  hill-side  gorge 

The  flags  of  labor  are  unfurled. 

O  valley,  rich  in  sturdy  toil, 

In  all  that  makes  a  people  great. 

We  hail  thee  queen  of  Buckeye  soil 
And  fling  our  challenge  to  the  State ! 

We  hail  thee  Queen  whose  beauty  won 
Our  fathers  in  their  golden  years ! 

A  shout  for  grander  days  begun ! 
A  sigh  for  vanished  pioneers ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  89* 

THE  MAUMEE  PIONEERS. 

(Written  for  the  Maumee  Valley  Pioneers'  Reunion,  Toledo,  Feb- 
ruary 22nd,  1880,  by  Mrs.  Kate  B.  Sherwood  and  recited  by  Mrs.  J.  D> 
Irving). 

Come,  friends,  around  this  festal  board, 

Where  peace  and  plenty  smile, 
And  memories  in  each  bosom  stored 

Are  quickening  the  while ; 
Come,  let  your  hearts  go  back  again, 

With  more  of  joy  than  tears. 
Unto  that  sturdy  race  of  men. 
The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

Let  others  tell  the  tales  of  Dee, 

The  Danube   and  the   Don, 
The  Rhine  that  ripples  to  the  sea 

The  Iser  rolling  on ; — 
New  England's  glades  and  palisades, 

Virginia's  vaunted  years, — 
We'll  tell  of  sturdier  men  and  maids, 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

We'll  tell  how  came  the  brave  La  Salle, 

Two  hundred  years  ago, 
To  list  St.  Mary's  madrigal. 

Responsive  to   St.  Joe; 
To  speak  the  vows  that  woke  the  trance, 

Of  long  unfruitful  years. 
And  give  to  Frontenac  and  France 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

Of  Couthemanche  whose  lonely  fort 

A  century  before 
Stood  guard  where  Fort  Miami's  port 

Heard  British  cannon  roar;^^ 


"Fort  Miami,  the  oldest  fortification  in  Ohio,  was  built  by  an  ex- 
pedition sent  by  Frontenac,  Governor  of  Canada,  in  1680.  It  stood  on 
the  left  bank  of  the  Maumee  River,  where  Maumee  City  now  stands. 
The  British  occupied  the  fort  from  1785  to  1795,  and  again  in  the  War 
of   1812.  » 


90  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

How  stripped  Perrot  the  fagot  sees 
Flash  through  Miami's  jeers, 

'Till  save  the  swift  Outagamis, 
The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

I  mind  me  in  those  bloody  days 
Of  Foxes,  Sacs  and  Sioux, 

Of  Miamis  and  Ottawas, 

And  Iroquois  and  Pous, 

An  Indian  woman  'tis  we  see 
Before  her  Priest  in  tears; 

Her  prayers  have  saved  from  massacre 
The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

Our  feet  are  on  historic  ground, 

The  very  streets  we  tread 
Re-echo  to  a  solemn  sound 

Above  the  shroudless  dead. 
Now  French  now  British  we  define, 

Now   red  ally  appears, — 
They  form  a  vast  and  shadowy  line, 

The  Maumee  pioneers. 

H«re  sleep  the  braves  of  Pontiac, 

There  Harmar's  hosts  go  down. 
And  bold  "Mad  Anthony"  brings  back 

The  knights  of  old  renown ; 
There  Harrison's  battalions  glance 

Along  the  burnt  frontiers. 
And  in  the  trail  of  arms  advance 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

Fort  Meigs  and  Fort  Miami  show 

A  sweet  and  solemn  truce, 
And  old  Fort  Industry,  I  trow, 

Has  met  a  nobler  use ; 
So  we  above  our  leveled  graves. 

Across  the  flood  of  years. 
May  name  the  once  dishonored  braves 

With  Maumee  Pioneers. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  91 

For  valor's  not  of  any  race, 

And  right  of  grace  has  none, 
If  Wayne  is  given  a  hero's  place, 

Tectimseh's  fame  is  won; 
If  Wells'-  b'e  praised  for  warlike  deeds 

That  wring  the  heart  with  tears, 
Then  Simon  Girty's  fealty  leads 

The  Maiimee  Pioneers. 

The  days  of  bow  and  spear  are  fled 

Of  tent  and  bark  teepee. 
The  axe  is  ringing  in  their  stead. 

The  woodman  zones  his  tree ; 
And  where  the  Indian  village  stood 

The  cabin  chinked  appears. 
And  white-haired  children  scour  the  wood, — 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

They  fight  no  barbed  and  painted  foe. 

They  run  no  gauntlet  where 
The  Indian  tomahawk  is  slow 

A  captured  foe  to  spare ; 
They  fly  no  cruel  massacre 

Of  plundering  buccaneers ; 
But  deadHer  foes  they  stricken  see, 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

They  fought  the  famine  and  the  cold. 

They  conquered  field  and  flood, 
They  drove  the  murrain  from  the  fold, 

The  fever  from  the  blood ; 
Their  triumphs  blossom  in  the  vales 

And  blush  along  the  piers 
And  fleck  the  lakes  with  snowy  sails, — 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 


'=William  Wells  had  been  captured  by  the  Indians  when  a  child 
and  had  been  adopted  by  Chief  Little  Turtle.  He  was  a  trusted  and' 
confidential  spy  of  General  Wayne. 


Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

The  wind  is  up,  the  sails  are  spread, 

The  gales  of  traffic  blow ; 
The  Yankee  comes  with  level  head, 

The  Teuton  sure  and  slow ; 
The  thrifty  Scot,  the  Irish  true, — 

And  Quaker  grace  appears 
A  wholesome  leaven  running  through 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

O  free  born  sires !  from  whom  there  runs 

A  tide  of  valor  through 
The  hearts  of  sons  remotest  sons ! 

O  wives  and  daughters  true ! — 
Who  toil  and  spin,  and  spin  and  pray, 

And  hiding  homesick  tears 
Keep  heart  and  hope   that  crown   today 

The  Maumee  Pioneers. 

Blow  soft  above  their  lowly  graves, 

O  north  wind  swift  and  keen ! 
And  south  wind  that  the  lily  waves, 

Keep  aye  their  grasses  green ! 
O  Spirit  of  the  Centuries ! 

Blow  on  his  heart  who  hears. 
And  wake  to  fragant  memories 

The  Maumee  Pioneers ! 


THE  PIONEER." 

By  Elizabeth  Shaw. 


The  pioneer  went  from  the  firelight  that  fell 

On  the  hearthstone  he  loved  the  best, 
From  hand-clasp  and  music  and  Sabbath  bell, 

To  go  —  where  the  sun  goes  —  West. 

"This  poem  was  read  at  the  Centennial  Celebration  at  Hudson, 
Summit  County,  June  5,  1900.  The  author  is  a  grand-daughter  of  Rev. 
James  Shaw,  D.  D.,  who  graduated  from  Western  Reserve  College  in 
1834. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  93 

The  stars  on  their  way  from  Atlantic's  cold  spray 

O'er  the  proud  Appalachian's  crest 
Stretched  long  fingers  of  light  through  the  dusk  of  the  night 
To  point  the  place  of  their  rest 

In  the  West, 
The  far-away  place  of  their  rest. 
The  Pioneer  followed  the  march  of  the  spheres ; 

In  his  footsteps  veiled  History  sped ; 
And  today,  through  the  echoes  of  hurrying  years, 

We  hear  the  far  sound  of  his  tread. 
Clear-eyed  and  fearless  and  steadfast, 
The  Pioneer  went  to  his  labors ; 
Not   fiercely,   to   wring  with   a   desperate   hand    from    reluctant 

Nature 
A  pittance  for  daily  needs,  but  with  kingly  tread  advancing 
Down  the  snow-paved  halls  of  the  forest,  his  axe-scepter  raised 

in  command. 
Storm-pruned,   like   the   trees   that    he   hewed,   and.   like   them, 

with  strong  frame  ice-armored. 
Gnarled  limbs  that  feared  not  the  cold  and  skin  like  the  bark 

of  a  sapling, — 
What  wonder  that  maple  and  beech  bowed  in  humble  submission 

before  him? 
The   fresh-hewn  wood  breathed  its   fragrance   to   welcome   the 

newly  crowned  monarch, 
And  even   the  bleeding   stumps   in   his  backward   pathway  ar- 
rayed them 
In  court  robes  of  velvet  lichens  to  honor  the  tyrant  who  smote 

them. 
Triumph,    perhaps,    but    not    comfort    was    his    in    his    savage 

dominion. 
Famine  and  Fever,  grim  anarchists,  shadowed  his  coming  and 

going ; 
The  wolf,  self-appointed  Lord  Chamberlain,  stared  through  the 

cracks  of  the  cabin ; 
But  still,  with  statesmanship  dauntless,  prophetic,  the   Pioneer 

wrought  for  the  future. 


94  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

When  Hunger  and  Cold  through  the  Forest  old 

With  the  wild  b'easts  went  wandering  by, 
When  Loneliness  hung  like  the  dying  Christ 

Between  pitiless  earth  and  sky, 
The  Pioneer  toiled  that  his  children  might  reap 

In  the  years  of  the  by  and  by. 
When  stern  Death  left  empty  the  log  hewn  crib 

Far  from  service  of  human  skill, 
And  the  sunlight  cast  only  the  shade  of  a  cross 

Athwart  the  rude  cabin's  doorsill, 
The  Pioneer  toiled  that  his  God  might  give 

The  harvest  to  whom  He  should  will. 
We  garner  that  harvest  by  right  of  our  birth. 

But  the  world  shares  the  fruit  of  his  tears ; 
For  minds  that  hew  pathways  to  new  realms  of  truth, 

And  hearts  that  faint  not  through  long  years. 
And  souls  that  dare  follow  the  beckoning  stars, 

Are  the  heirs  of  the  Pioneers. 
Like  pigeons,  a-homing  the  years  wing  their  way 

To  the  silence  from  which  they  came, 
And  the  Pioneer's  story  is  written  today 

In  the  crimson-stained  annals  of  fame. 
The  town  that  our  fathers  baptized  with  their  blood. 

Though  twined  with  this  century's  birth, 
Is  destined  to  live  till  Time's  day-star  shall  give 

Eternity's  dawn  to  the  earth. 
The  blood  of  its  chrism  flows  warm  through  our  hearts 

As  we  meet,  its  sweet  hearth-songs  to  sing. 
While  the  Future  leads  swift,  like  the  stars  in  the  East, 
To  the  presence  of  Christ,  our  King. 


The  century's  labors  are   done,  and   we  gather   from   far  and 

from  near, 
As  a  family,  scattered  by  day,  gathers  home  in  the  gray  of  the 

twilight. 
The  day  was  too  long  for  our  fathers ;  they  are  sleeping  in  quiet 

green  places 


Poems  on  Ohio.  95 

While  we  who  still  wake  speak  together  of  what  has  been  done 
since  the  morning. 

No  longer  the  wilderness  hedges  our  dooryard  with  barriers 
enchanted ; 

No  longer  the  fertile  fields  lie  with  tresses  sleep-tangled  through 
ages. 

Her  trees,  swept  by  wind  fingers,  play  the  chords  of  herioc 
endeavor ; 

The  bells  of  her  churches  chime  "Worship,"  and  the  bells  of 
her  schools  echo  "Wisdom ;" 

Her  children  play,  free  from  all  fear,  angel-b'rooded  in  flower- 
strewn  pathways. 

We  sing  you  no  song  of  the  waves  in  mid-sea, 

Crowded  close  by  their  kin  everymore, 
But  a  song  of  the  breakers  that  part  from  their  mates 

To  dash  out  their  lives  on  the  shore. 
We  sing  you  no  song  of  the  waves  in  mid-sea, 

Rising  up,  sinking  down  evermore, 
But  a  song  of  the  breakers  that  climb  up  the  sands 

And  carve  the  bleak  rocks  on  the  shore ; 
The  brave  artist  breakers  that  carve  with  themselves. 

And  vanish  in  foam  on  the  shore. 


On  Culture's  mid-ocean,  with  purposeless  motion 

The  waves  of  hfe  rise  but  to  sink. 
But  with  impulse  resistless  of  conquest  and  progress 

Break  the  waves  on  Humanity's  brink. 
They  fling  themselves  forward  with  courage  sublime, 

They  crumble  grim  Savagery's  crest. 
And  they  carve  the  high  bluffs  of  a  new  world's  bold  shore, 

As  their  toil-worn  forms  sink  to  rest 
In  the  West 

The  receding,  elusive  West. 


96  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

"THE  HARDY  PIONEER."^* 

By  James  Ball  Naylor/^  (i860 — ) 

When  the  century  old  was  dying 

And  the  new  was  waking  to  birth, 

When  the  shortening  days  were  flying 

Like  the  shadows  across  the  earth ; 

When  the  speeding  months  were  a-shiver 
In  the  fall  of  the  fading  year, 

To  the  banks  of  the  bonny  river 
Came  the  hardy  pioneer. 

No  castle  secure  and  massy, 

No  orchard  or  field  of  grain, 
No  meadowland  smooth  and  grassy 

Found  he  in  his  vast  domain ; 
For  the  earth  in  its  pristine  glory 

Knew  naught  of  the  tiller's  ban — 
And  the  solitude  lisped  the  story 

Of  a  land  unspoiled  by  man. 

But  the  woods  were  his  for  the  asking, 

And  the  streams  at  his  door,  and  the  fish- 
While  the  game  on  the  hillsides  basking 

Was  the  fruitful  fact  of  her  wish. 
And  the  nuts,  in  a  fit  of  vagrance. 

Dropped  into  his  waiting  hand — 
And  the  fall  flow'rs  shed  their  fragrance 

Over  all  the  bounteous  land, 


"This  poem  was  read  at  Big  Bottom  Park,  Morgan  County,  Sep- 
tember 30,  1905,  on  the  occasion  of  the  dedication  of  a  monument  mark- 
ing the  site  of  the  Block  House  Massacre  in  1791.  Dr.  Naylor's  "In 
the  Days  of  Old  St.  Clair"  is  an  historical  novel  based  on  this  event. 

"James  Ball  Naylor,  novelist,  verse-vi^riter,  physician;  born  Penns- 
ville,  Ohio,  October  4,  1860;  early  education  in  the  district  schools  of 
Morgan  County,  Stockport  High  School,  and  Marietta  College.  Grad- 
uated, Starling  Medical  College.  Author:  Current  Coins  (verse).  1893; 
Goldenrod  and  Thistledown  (verse),  1896;  Ralph  Marlowe  (novel), 
1901;  The  Sign  of  the  Prophet  (novel),  1901;  In  the  Days  of  Old  St. 
Clair   (novel),  1902;  Songs  From  the  Heart  of  Things   (verse),  1908. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  97 

His  home  was  a  log-built  cottage, 

His  hearth  was  a  bed  of  clay; 
And  a  pone  and  a  mess  of  pottage 

Were  his  at  the  close  of  day. 
No  longer  had  he  to  stifle — 

His  domain  was  the  trackless  wild ; 
And  his  dogs  and  his  flintlock  rifle 

Stood  next  to  his  wife  and  child. 

The  sun,  in  its  midday  splendor, 

Lent  cheer  with  its  kindly  light. 
And  the  moon,  wan-faced  and  tender, 

Smiled  down  on  his  cot  at  night. 
But  his  heart  was  a-dread  with  the  vastness, 

And  a-chill  with  the  Frost  King's  breath— 
And  afar  in  the  forest  fastness 

Lurked  the  skeleton  shade  of  Death ! 

The  old  year  died  —  and  was  shrouded 

In  a  mantle  of  spotless  white, 
And  the  pall  of  his  bier  beclouded 

The  moon  and  the  stars     from  sight ; 
But  the  settler,  safe  in  his  shelter — 

Where  the  flames  on  his  hearth  leaped  high, 
Cared  naught  for  the  fearsome  skelter 
Of  the  North  Wind  moaning  by. 

But  is  that  the  voice  of  the  mourner 

A-wail  through  the  leafless  trees, 
That  brings  the  gaunt  hound  from  his  corner — 

And  the  child  to  his  father's  knees? 
Ah,  no !     'Tis  no  night  wind  benignant 

That  the  poor  settler  knows  so  well ; 
'Tis  the  sound  of  the  awful,  malignant, 

And  devilish  Indian  yell ! 
7 


98  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Small  need  is  there  now  for  reciting — 

Meager  need  for  the  poet  to  tell 
How  the  brave  pioneer  fell  fighting, 

How  his  dauntless  wife  fought  and  fell. 
Let  the  autumn  breeze  whisper  the  story, 

Till  the  rustling  reeds  quiver  and  wave — 
Till  the  goldenrod  showers  its  glory 

O'er  the  pioneer's  lowly  grave. 

As  for  us  —  when  the  spring  flow'rs  are  peeping 

From  the  frost-freed  mould  beneath. 
And  the  ice-freed  river  is  leaping 

Like  a  flashing  blade  from  its  sheath, 
Let  us  gather  the  first  wild  beauty 

We  can  find  on  the  brown  earth's  breast, 
And  place  it  here — as  a  duty — 

Where  the  pioneer  lies  at  rest. 

And  again — when  the  summer  is  dying, 

And  the  year  is  growing  old. 
When  the  russet  leaves  falling  and  flying 

Fetch  a  message  of  coming  cold, 
Let  us  deem  it  a  noble  pleasure 

Once  more  to  assemble  here 
And  bring  a  late  autumn  treasure 

To  the  hardy  old  pioneer. 


THE  PIONEERS. 

By  Charles  A.  Jones. 


Where  are  the  hardy  yeomen 
Who  battled  for  this  land. 

And  trode  these  hoar  old  forests 
A  brave  and  gallant  band? 


Poems  on  Ohio.  99 

Oh,  know  ye  where  they  shimber? 

No  monument  appears 
For  Freedom's  pilgrims  to  draw  nigh 

And  hallow  with  their  tears? 
Or  were  no  works  of  glory 

Done  in  the  olden  time? 
And  has  the  West  no  story 

And  deathless  deeds  sublime? 

Go  ask  yon  shining  river 

And  it  will  tell  a  tale 
Of  deeds  of  noble  daring 

Will  make  thy  cheek  grow  pale : 
Go  ask  yon  smiling  valley 

Whose  harvest  blooms  so  fair, 
'Twill  tell  thee  a  sad  story 

Of  the  brave  who  slumber  there : 
Go  ask  yon  mountain,  rearing, 

Its  forest  crest  so  high ; 
Each  tree  upon  its  summit 

Has  seen  a  warrior  die. 

They  knew  no  dread  of  danger 

When  rose  the  Indian's  yell ; 
Right  gallantly  they  struggled 

Right  gallantly  they  fell: 
From  Alleghany's  summit 

To  the  farthest  western  shore 
These  brave  men's  bones  are  lying 

Where  they  perished   in  their  gore; 
And  not  a  single  monument 

Is  seen  in  all  the  land, 
In  honor  of  the  memory 

Of   that   heroic   band. 

Their  bones  were  left  to  whiten 

The  spot  where  they  were  slain; 
And  were  ye  now  to  seek  them 

They  would  be  sought  in  vain. 


100  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

The  mountain  cat  has  feasted 

Upon  them  as  they  lay; 
Long,  long  ago  they  mingled 

Again  with  other  clay : 
Their  very  names  are  dying, 

Unconsecrate  by  fame, 
In  oblivion  they  slumber — 

Our  glory  and  our  shame. 


SONG  OF  THE  PIONEERS. 

By  William  D.  Gallagher. 

A  song  for  the  early  times  out  West, 

And  our  green  old  forest  home, 
Whose  pleasant  memories  freshly  yet 

Across  the  bosom  come : 
A  song  for  the  free  and  gladsome  life, 

In  those  early  days  we  led. 
With  a  teeming  soil  beneath  our  feet, 

And  a  smiling  Heav'n  o'erhead ! 
Oh,  the  waves  of  life  danced  merrily 

And  had  a  joyous  flow. 
In  the  days  when  we  were  pioneers. 

Fifty  years  ago ! 

The  hunt,  the  shot,  the  glorious  chase. 

The  captured  elk  or  deer; 
The  camp,  the  big  bright  fire  and  thei 

The  rich  and  wholesome  cheer : — 
The  sweet,  sound  sleep  at  dead  of  night 

By  our  camp  fire  blazing  high — 
Unbroken  by  the  wolf's  long  howl 
And  the  panther  springing  by. 
Oh,  merrily  passed  the  time  despite 

Our  wily  Indian  foe, 
In  the  days  when  we  were  pioneers, 

Fifty  years  ago ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  101 

We  shunned  not  labor :  when  'twas  due 

We  wrought  with  right  good  will ; 
And  for  the  homes  we  won  for  them 

Our  children  bless  us  still. 
We  lived  not  hermit  lives,  but  oft 

In  social  converse  met ; 
And  fires  of  love  were  kindled  then 

That  burn  on  warmly  yet. 
Oh,  pleasantly  the  stream  of  life 

Pursued  its  constant  flow, 
In  the  days  when  we  were  pioneers, 

Fifty  years  ago ! 

We  felt  that  we  were  f ellowmen ; 

We  felt  we  were  a  band, 
Sustain'd  here  in  the  wilderness 

By  Heaven's  upholding  hand. 
And  when  the  solemn  Sabbath  came 

We  gathered  in  the  wood 
And  lifted  up  our  hearts  in  prayer 

To  God,  the  only  Good. 
Our  temples  then  were  earth  and  sky  ; 

None  others  did  we  know, 
In  the  days  when  we  were  pioneers, 

Fifty  years  ago ! 

Our  forest  life  was  rough  and  rude. 

And  dangers  clos'd  us  round  ; 
But  here,  amid  the  green  old  trees 

Freedom  was  sought  and  found. 
Oft  through  our  dwellings  wintry  blasts 

Would  rush  with  shriek  and  moan; 
We  cared  not  —  though  they  were  b'ut  frail, 

We  felt  they  were  our  own! 
Oh.  free  and  manly  lives  we  led, 

Mid  verdure  or  mid  snow 
In  the  days  when  we  were  pioneers, 

Fifty  years  ago ! 


102  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

But  now  our  course  of  life  is  short; 

And  as,  from  day  to  day 
We're  walking  on  with  halting  step 

And  fainting  by  the  way, 
Another  Land   more  bright  than  this 

To  our  dim  sight  appears, 
And  on  our  way  to  it,  we'll  soon 

Again  be  pioneers ! 
Yet  while  we  linger  we  may  all 

A  backward  glance  still  throw, 
To  th^  days  when  we  were  pioneers, 

Fifty  years  ago ! 


REFLECTIONS  OF  AN  AGED  PIONEER. 

By  Thomas  H.  Shreve. 

The  Eternal  Sea 
Is  surging  up  before  my  dreaming  mind ; 
And  on  my  ear.  grown  dull  to  things  of  earth, 
Its  sounds  are  audible.     My  spirit  soon 
Shall  brave  its  billows  life  a  trusty  bark, 
And  seek  the  shore  where  shadows  never  fall. 
Oh,  I  have  lived  too  long!     Have  I  not  seen 
The  suns  of  four  score  summers  set  in  gloom  ? 
Hath  not  my  heart  long  sepulchered  it  hopes 
And  desolation  swept  my  humble  hearth? 
All  that  I  prized  have  passed  away  like  clouds 
Which  float  a  moment  in  the  twilight  sky 
And  fade  in  night.     The  brow  of  her  I  loved 
Is  now  resplendent  in  the  light  of  heaven. 
They  who  flung  sunlight  on  my  path  in  youth 
Have  gone  before  me  to  the  cloudless  clime. 
I  stand  alone  like  some  dim  shaft  which  throws 
Its  shadow  on  the  desert's  waste,  while  thev 


Foetus  on  Ohio.  103 

Who  placed  it  there  are  gone — or  like  the  tree 
Spared  by  the  ax  upon  the  mountain's  cliff, 
Whose  sap  is  dull,  while  it  still  wears  the  hue 
Of  life  upon  its  withered  limbs. 

Of  earth 
And  all  its  scenes  my  heart  is  weary  now\ 
'Tis  mine  no  longer  to  indulge  in  what 
Gave  life  its  bliss,  jeweled  the  day  with  joys, 
And  made  my  slumbers  through  the  night  as  sweet 
As  infant's  dreaming  on  its  mother's  breast. 
The  blood  is  sluggish  in  each  limb  and  I 
No  longer  chase  the  startled  deer  or  track 
The  wily  fox  or  climb  the  mountain's  side. 
My  eye  is  dim  and  cannot  see  the  stars 
Flash  in  the  stream,  or  view  the  gathering  storm, 
Or  trace  the  figures  of  familiar  things 
In  the  light  tapestry  that  decks  the  sky. 
My  ear  is  dull,  the  winds  autumnal  pass 
And  wake  no  answering  chime  within  my  breast : 
The  songs  of  birds  have  lost  the  whilom  spells. 
And  water-falls  unmurmuring,  pass  me  by. 
'Tis  time  that  I  were  not.     The  tide  of  life 
Bears  not  an  argosy  of  hope  for  me, 
And  its  dull  waves  surge  up  against  my  heart 
Like  billows  'gainst  a  rock.     The  forests  wide 
All  trackless  as  proud  Hecla's  snowy  cliffs, 
From  which  in  youth,  I  drew  my  inspiration. 
Have  fallen  round  me ;  and  the  waving  fields 
Bow  to  the  reaper  where  I  wildly  roamed. 
Cities  now  rise  where  I  pursued  the  deer; 
And  dust  offends  me  where  in  happier  years, 
I  breathed  in  vigor  from  untainted  gales. 
Nature  hath  bowed  before  all  conquering  Art — 
Hath  dropped  the  reign  of  empire  which  she  held 
With  princely  pride  when  first  I  met  her  here. 
The  old  familiar  things  to  which  my  heart 
Clung  with  deep  fondness,  each  and  all  ?re  gone; 


104  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

And  I  am  like  the  patriarch  who  stood 

Forgotten  at  the  altar  which  he  built, 

While  crowds  rushed  by  who  knew  him  not  and  sneered 

At  his  simplicity. 


SLEEP,  OLD  PIONEER !'« 

By  Will  Carleton.^^     (1845 — ) 

When   the   Spring-time   touch   is   lightest, 
When  the  Summer-eyes  are  brightest, 

Or  the  Autumn  sings  most  drear ; 
When  the  Winter's  hair  is  whitest. 

Sleep,  old  pioneer ! 
Safe  beneath  the  sheltering  soil, 

Late  enough  you  crept; 
You  were  weary  of  the  toil 

Long  before  you  slept. 
Well  you  paid  for  every  blessing, 

Bought  with  grief  each  day  of  cheer; 
Nature's  arms  around  you  pressing, 
Nature's  lips  your  brow  caressing, 

Sleep,  old  pioneer ! 

When  the  hill  of  toil  was  steepest, 
When  the  forest-frown  was  deepest. 

Poor,  but  young,  you  hastened  here ; 
Came  where   solid  hope  was  cheapest — 

Came  —  a  pioneer. 


""'From  Will  Carleton's  'Farm  Festivals.'  Copyright,  1891,  1898, 
by  Harper  and  Brothers." 

"Will  Carleton,  author,  lecturer,  was  born  at  Hudson,  Mich.,  Oc- 
tober 21,  1845;  graduated  at  Hillsdale  College,  1869.  After  graduation, 
did  newspaper  work  in  Hillsdale,  Detroit  and  Chicago;  became  known 
as  a  poet,  and  has  lectured  and  given  author's  readings  through  the 
United  States,  Great  Britain  and  continental  Europe.  Author  of  Farm 
Ballads,  Farm  Legends,  City  Ballads,  City  Legends,  City  Festivals, 
Rhymes  of  Our  Planet,  The  Old  Infant,  and  similar  stories ;  Young 
Folks'   Centennial    Rhymes,  and   Songs  of   Two   Centuries. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  105 

Alade  the  western  jungles  view 

Civilization's  charms ; 
Snatched  a  home  for  yours  and  you, 

From  the  lean  tree-arms, 
Toil  had  never  ceased  to  doubt  you, — 

Progress'  path  you  helped  to  clear; 
But  Today  forgets  about  you, 
And  the  world  rides  on  without  you — 

Sleep,  old  pioneer ! 

Careless  crowds  go  daily  past  you. 
Where  their  future  fate  has  cast  you. 

Leaving  not  a  sigh  or  tear; 
And  your  wonder-works  outlast  you  — 

Brave  old  pioneer ! 
Little  care  the  selfish  throng 

Where  your  heart  is  hid, 
Though  they  thrive  upon  the  strong. 

Resolute  work  it  did. 

But  our  memory-eyes  have  found  you, 

And  we  hold  you  grandly  dear ; 
With  no  work  day  woes  to  wound  you — 

With  the  peace  of  God  around  you — 

Sleep,  old  pioneer ! 


OHIO'S  PILGRIM  BANDJ« 

By  Lewis  J.  Cist.     (1818-1885.)' 

New  England  well  may  boast 
The  band  that  on  her  coast. 
Long  years  ago, 


"This  poem  can  be  sung  to  the  tune,  America. 

"Lewis  J.  Cist,  son  of  Charles  Cist,  who  was  known  by  his  "Cist's 
Advertiser,"  was  born  in  the  communistic  village  of  Harmony,  Penn- 
sylvania. While  a  child  he  was  brought  to  Cincinnati,  where  his  edu- 
cation fitted  him  for  the  banking  business.     His  verse-writing  has  con- 


106  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Their  Pilgrim  anchor  cast — 
Their  Pilgrim  bark  made  fast — 
'Mid  winter's  howling  blast 
And  driven  snow. 

Long  since  hath  passed  away 
Each  Pilgrim,  hoar  and  gray, 

Of  that  lone  band : 
Yet  where  their  ashes  lie, 
Sprang  seeds  that  shall  not  die, 
While  ever  yon  blue  sky 

Shall  arch  our  land ! 

Sons  of  that  Pilgrim  race 
Were  they  from  whom  we  trace 

Our  Buckeye  blood ; 
Ohio's  Pilgrim  band, 
Lo,  on  yon  shore  they  stand, 
Their  footsteps  on  the  land, 

Their  trust  in  God ! 

Not  with  the  bold  array 
Of  armies  dread,  came  they 

Proud  conquest  on; 
Through  a  long  warfare   rude, 
With  patient  hardihood. 
By  toil  and  strife  and  blood, 
The   soil   was   won. 

Won   from  the   Redman's   lair. 
To  be  an  Eden  fair 

To  us  and  ours ; 
Won  as  the  peaceful  home 
Of  age  and  beauty's  bloom. 
While  day  shall  chase  night's  gloom. 

While  time  endures ! 


sisted  of  "occasional  gleanings  from  such  by-nooks  and  out-of-the-way 
corners  of  the  field  of  fancy,  as  has  been  passed  by  the  more  worthy 
and  accredited  gatherers  of  the  golden-hued  harvests  of  Parnassus. 
A  collection  of  his  verses  was  published   in   1845. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  107 

God  of  the  high  and  free! 
Our  fathers'  God  to  thee 

Our  thanks  are  given ; 
Thanks  for  the  true  and  brave — 
Sires  all  that  sons  might  crave — 
Their  forms  are  in  the  grave, 

Their  souls  in  heaven ! 


THE  FOUNDERS  OF  OHIO   (1788). 
By  Dr.  W.  H.  Venable. 

The  footsteps  of  a  hundred  years 

Have  echoed   since  o'er  Braddock's  Road, 
Bold  Putnam  and  the  Pioneers 

Led  History  the  way  they  strode. 

On  wild  Monongahela's  stream 

They  launched  the  Mayflower  of  the  West, 
A  perfect  state  their  civic  dream, 

A  new  New  World  their  pilgrim  quest. 

When  April  robed  the  Buckeye  trees, 

Muskingum's  bosky  shore  they  trod ; 

They    pitched    their    tent,    and    on    the    breeze 
Flung  freedom's  star-flag,  thanking  God. 

As  glides  the  Oyo's  solemn  flood 
So  fleeted  their  eventful  years ; 

Resurgent  in  their  children's  blood, 
They  still  live  on  —  the  Pioneers. 

Their  fame  shrinks  not  to  names  and  dates, 
On  votive  stone  the  prey  of  time ; 

Behold  where  monumental  States 
Immortalize   their   lives    sublime. 


108  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Socictx  Publications. 


SETTLERS'  SONG.«-^ 

"When  rambling  o'er  these  mountains 

And   rocks,   where   ivies   grow 
Thick  as  the  hairs  upon  your  head, 

'Mongst  which  you  cannot  go ; 
Great  storm  of  snow,  cold  winds  that  blow, 

We  scarce  can  undergo ; 
Says  I,  my  boys,  we'll  leave  this  place 

For  the  pleasant  Ohio. 

Our  precious  friends  that  stay  behind, 

We're  sorry  now  to  leave ; 
But  if  they'll  stay  and  break  their  shins, 

For  them  we'll  never  grieve ; 
Adieu,  my  friends !  come  on,  my  dear?, 

This  journey  we'll   forego. 
And   settle  Licking  Creek. 

In  yonder  Ohio." 


EIGHTY-SEVEN. 

William  H.  Venable. 

As  mighty  heart  in  a  giant's  breast, 

With  rhythmic  beat, 
Sends  marching  from  brain  to  feet, 
The  crimson  vigor  of  creative  blood, 
So,  in  the  bosom  of  the  brawny  West. 
So,  in  the  stalwart  breast  of  the   Nation, 
Throbs  the  Great  Ordinance, — a  heart, 
A  vital  and  organic  part, 


*"In  1804  a  company  was  formed  in  Granville,  Mass.,  with  the  in- 
tention of  effecting  a  settlement  in  Ohio.  The  project  was  enthusias- 
tically received.  The  above  song  was  composed  and  sung  to  the  tune 
"Pleasant  Ohio."  This  company  made  its  settlement  at  Granville,  Lick- 
ing County,  Ohio. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  109 

Propelling  by  its  strong  pulsation 
The  unremitting  stream  and  flood 
Of  wholesome  influences,  that  give 

Unto  the  body  pohtic 
The  elements  and  virtues  quick 
Whereby  Republics  live. 


BATTLE  OF  POINT  PLEASANT.^i 

A  Ballad. 

Let  us  mind  the  tenth  day  of  October, 
Seventy-four,  which  caused  woe ; 
The  Indian  savages  they  did  cover 
The  pleasant  banks  of  the  Ohi\ 

The  battle  beginning  in  the  morning — 
Throughout  the  day  it  lasted   sore. 
Till  the  evening  of  shades  were  returning 
Upon  the  banks  of  the  Ohio. 

Judgment  proceeds  to  execution — 
Let  fame  throughout  all  dangers  go ; 
Our  heroes  fought  with  resolution. 
Upon  the  banks  of  the  Ohio. 

Seven  score  lay  dead  and  wounded. 
Of  champions  that  did  face  the  foe; 
By  which  the  heathen  were  confounded 
Upon  the  banks  of  the  Ohio. 

Colonel  Lewis^-  and  some  noble  captains, 
Did  down  to  death  like  Uriah  go; 
Alas !  their  heads  wound  up  in  napkins 
Upon  the  banks  of  the  Ohio. 


"This  ballad  was  sung  for  many  years  after  the  battle  by  the 
people  of  Virginia. 

""Colonel  Charles  Lewis,  brother  of  the  commander,  General  An- 
drew  Lewis,   was  among  those   slain   in   the  battle. 


110  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Kings  lamented  their  mighty  fallen 
Upon  the  mountains  of  Gilboa ; 
And  now  we  mourn  for  brave  Hugh  AUen^^ 
Far  from  the  banks  of  the  Ohio. 

Oh !  bless  the  mighty  King  of  Heaven, 
For  all  his  wondrous  works  below, 
Who  hath  to  us  the  victory  given 
Upon  the  banks  of  the  Ohio.^* 


SINCLAIRE'S   DEFEAT.«^ 

A  Ballad. 

'Twas  November  the  fourth,  in  the  year  of  ninety-one, 
We  had  a  sore  engagement  near  to  Fort  Jefferson  ; 
Sinclaire  was  our  commander,  which  may  remembered  be, 
For  there  we  left  nine  hundred  men  in  t'  West'n  Ter'tory. 

At  Bunker's  Hill  and  Quebeck,  where  many  a  hero  fell 
Likewise  at  Long  Island  (it  is  I  the  truth  can  tell) 
But  such  a  dreadful  carnage  may  I  never  see  again 
As  hap'ned  near  St.  Mary's  upon  the  river  plain. 

Our  army  was  attacked  just  as  the  day  did  dawn, 
And  soon  were  overpowered  and  driven  from  the  lawn. 
They  killed  Major  Ouldham,  Levin  and  Briggs  likewise. 
And  horrid  yells  of  savages  resounded  through  the  skies. 

Major  Butler  was  wounded  in  the  very  second  fire ; 
His  manly  bosom  swell'd  with  rage  when  forced  to  retire ; 
And  as  he  lay  in  anguish  and  scarcely  could  he  see. 
Exclaimed,  "Ye  hounds  of  hell,  O,  revenged  I  will  be!" 


"^Hugh  Allen  was  a  Virginia  Lieutenant. 

^'The  Rattle  of  Point  Pleasant  has  officially  been  declared  "The 
F'irst    Battle    of   the   Revolution." 

"•''This  battle  was  fought  in  Mercer  County.  The  Publications  of 
the  Ohio  Archreological  and  Historical  Society  give  replete  accounts  of 
the  contest. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  Ill 

We  had  not  been  long  broken  when  General  Butler  found 
Himself  so  badly  wounded,  was  forced  to  quit  the  ground, 
"My  God!"  says,  "what  shall  we  do,  we're  wounded  every  man? 
Go  charge  them,  valiant  heroes,  and  beat  them  if  you  can." 

He  leaned  his  back  against  a  tree,  and  there  resigned  his  breath, 
And  like  a  valiant  soldier  sunk  in  the  arms  of  death ; 
When  blessed  angels  did  await,  his  spirit  to  convey ; 
And  unto  the  celestial  fields  he  quickly  bent  his  way. 

We    charged    again    with    courage    firm,    but    soon    again    gave 

ground, 
The  war-whoop  then  redoubled  as  did  the  foes  around. 
They  killed  Major  Ferguson,  which  caused  his  men  to  cry, 
"Our  only  safety  is  in  flight,  or  fighting  here  to  die." 

"Stand  to  your  gims,"  says  valiant  Ford,  "let's  die  upon  them 

here 
Before  we  let  the  sav'ges  know  we  ever  harbored  fear." 
Our  cannon-balls  exhausted,   and  artill'ry-men   all   slain, 
Obliged  were  our  musket-men  the  en'my  to  sustain. 

Yet  three  hours  more  we  fought  them,  and  then  were  forc'd  to 

yield. 
When   three   hundred    bloody    warriors    lay    stretch 'd    upon    the 

field. 
Says  Colonel  Gibson  to  his  men,  "My  boys  be  not  dismayed; 
I'm  sure  that  true  Virginians  were  never  yet  afraid. 

Ten  thousand  deaths  I'd   rather  die,  than  they  should  gain  the 

field!" 
With  that  he  got  a  fatal  shot,  which  caused  him  to  yield. 
Says  Major  Clark,  "My  heroes,  I  can  here  no  longer  stand. 
We'll  strive  to  form  in  order,  and  retreat  the  best  we  can." 

The  word,  "Retreat."  being  passed  around  there  was  a  dismal 

cry, 
Then  helter-shelter,   through   the   woods  like   wolves   and   sheep 

they  fly. 
This  well-appointed  army,  who  but  a  day  before 
Defied  and  braved  all  danger,  had  like  a  cloud  ])ass'd  o'er. 


112  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Alas!  the  dying  and  wounded,  how  dreadful  was  the  thought, 
To  the  tomahawk  and  scalping-knife,  in  mis'ry  are  brought. 
Some  had  a  thigh  and  some  an  arm  broke  on  the  field  that  day, 
Who  writhed  in  torments  at  the  stake,  to  close  the  dire  affray. 

To  mention  our  brave  officers  is  what  I  wish  to  do ; 

No  sons  of  Mars  e'er  fought  more  brave,  or  with  more  courage 

true. 
To  Captain  Bradford,  I  belonged,  in  his  artillery. 
He  tell  that  day  amongst  the  slain ;  a  valiant  man  was  he. 


JOHN  CADE'S  SONG."" 

(Air,  Anacrcon  in  Heaven.) 

By  Andrew  Coffinberry. 

"In  the  heat  of  the  combat  where  bravest  men  fight. 
Our  gallant  old  leader  seeks  danger  and  glory ; 
His  prowess  in  arms,  his  bold  daring  and  might. 

Shall  pass  down  forever  in  song  and  in  story: 
The  sound  of  his  name,  in  a  halo  of  fame. 
The  bosom  of  ages  unborn  shall  inflame, 
Wherever  the  star-spangled  banner  shall  wave 
O'er  a  land  ruled  by  freemen,  a  home  for  the  b'rave. 

"Mad  Anthony's  nerve  to  the  savage  is  known; 

They  openly  dare  not  in  fair  field  to  meet  him, 
But  under  close  covert  the  demons  unshown. 

Still  strive  to  decoy,  to  delude  and  defeat  him. 
But  vigilant  Wayne  in  forest  or  plain, 
His  rich  ripened  laurels  will  ever  sustain, 
And  whither  soever  his  banner  shall  wave, 
May  unfading  glory  be  won  by  the  brave. 


*°John    Cade    is    one    of    the    characters    of    Coffinberry's    "Forest 
Rangers,"  and   when    "on   the  march"   he   is   supposed  to   sing  this  song. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  113 

''The  renegade  Girty  though  prowHng  around, 

His  dark  soul  yet  brooding  o'er  bloodshed  and  plunder, 
Is  quaking  with  fear  at  the  heart  thrilling  sound 

Of  our  trumpets  and  drums  that  in  voices  of  thunder, 
Announce  to  the  slave  his  approach  to  the  grave, 
From  the  march  of  the  valiant,  the  daring  and  brave,  i. 

With  their  star-spangled  banner  that  e'er  long  shall  wave 
O'er  all  the  green  west  as  a  home  for  the  brave. 

"Our  cup  of  forbearance  is  full  to  the  brim, 

Our  innocents'  blood  for  deep  vengeance  is  calling; 
Miami's  pure  floods  all  encrimsoned  shall  swim, 

With  the  best  blood  of  those  that  for  ours  are  prowling. 
But  where  Wayne  shall  lead  we  follow  with  speed, 
And  dauntlessly  triumph  in  each  daring  deed, 
That  shall  hallow  the  banner  still  destined  to  wave 
O'er  the  land  of  bold  daring,  the  home  of  the  brave. 


THE  DESERTED  ISLE.«^ 

By  Mrs.  Harman  Blennerhassett.^^ 

Like  mournful  echo  from  the  silent  tomb. 

That  pines  away  upon  the  midnight  air. 

Whilst  the  pale  moon  breaks  out,  with   fitful  gloom 

Fond  memory  turns  with  sad  but  welcome  care, 

To  scenes  of  desolation  and  despair ; 


"Mrs.  Blennerhassett  wrote  in  1824  while  living  in  Montreal  a  vol- 
ume of  verse,  "Widow  of  the  Rock  and  Other  Poems."  "The  Deserted 
Isle"  was  one  of  the  poems. 

'^Mrs.  Blennerhasset  was  Margaret  Agnew,  daughter  of  Captain 
Agnew,  of  the  British  Navy  and  Lieutenant  Governor  of  the  Isle  of 
Man.  After  the  destruction  of  her  island  home,  she  embarked  with 
her  children  on  a  flat-boat  and  descended  the  Ohio  where  she  joined 
her  husband.  Her  remaining  life  was  a  sad  wandering  one.  She  died 
in  1842  in  a  dreary  tenement  house,  a  broken-hearted  woman.  A  full 
account  of  the  Blennerhassett  history  is  to  be  found  in  Vol.  I.  of  the 
Ohio  Arch3:ological  and  Historical  Publications. 


114  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Once  bright  with  all  that  beauty  could  bestow, 
That  peace  could  shed  or  youthful  fancy  know.. 

To  the  fair  isle,  reverts  the  pleasing  dream ; 

Again  thou  risest,  in  thy  green  attire, 

Fresh,  as  at  first ;  thy  blooming  graces  seem : — 

Thy  groves,   thy  fields,  their  wonted   sweets   respire 

Again  thou  'rt  all  my  heart  could  e'er  desire. 

Oh !     Why,  dear  isle,  art  thou  not  still  my  own  ? 

Thy  charms  could  then  for  all  my  griefs  atone. 

The  stranger  that  descends  Ohio's  stream, 
Charmed  with  the  beauteous   prospects  that  arise, 
Marks  the  soft  isles  that,  'neath  the  glittering  beam,. 
Dance  with  the  wave  and  mingle  with  the  skies ; 
Sees,  also,  one  that  now  in  ruin  lies. 
Which  erst  like  fairy  queen,  towered  o'er  the  rest,. 
In  every  native  charm,  by  culture  dressed. 

There  rose  the  seat,  where  once  in  pride  of  life, 
My  eye  could  mark  the  queenly  river's  flow, 
In  summer's  calmness,  or  in  winter's  strife. 
Swollen  with   rains,  or  battling  with  the   snow. 
Never  again  my  heart  such  joy  shall  know- 
Havoc  and  ruin,  rampant  war,  have  passed 
Over  that  isle,  with  their  destroying  blast. 

The  black'ning  fire  has  swept  throughout  her  halls, 
The  winds  fly  whistling  o'er  them,  and  the  wave 
No  more  in  spring  floods,  o'er  the  sand  beach  crawls^ 
But  furious  drowns  in  one  o'erwhelming  grave. 
Thy  hallowed  haunts  it  watered  as  a  slave. 
Drive  on,  destructive  flood !  and  ne'er  again. 
On  that  devoted  isle  let  man  remain. 

Too  many  blissful  moments  there  I've  known; 
Too  many  hopes  have  there  met  their  decay ; 
Too  many  feelings  now  forever  gone. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  115 

To  wish  that  thou  could'st  e'er  again  display 
The  joyful  coloring  of  thy  prime  array: 
Buried  with  thee,  let  them  remain  a  blot, 
With  thee,  their  sweets,  their  bitterness  forgot. 

And,  oh !  that  I  could  wholly  wipe  away 

The  memory  of  the  ills  that  worked  thy  fall ; 

The  memory  of  that  all-eventful  day, 

When  I  returned  and  found  my  own  fair  hall 

Held  by  the  infuriate  populace  in  thrall ; — ^^ 

My  own  fireside  blockaded  by  a  band 

That  once  found  food  and  shelter  of  my  hand. 

My  children  (Oh!  a  mother's  pangs  forbear; 
Nor  strike  again  that  arrow  to  my  soul ;) 
Clasping  the  ruffians  in  suppHant  prayer; 
To  free  their  mother  from  unjust  control. 
While  with  false  crimes  and  imprecations  foul, 
The  wretched,  vilest  refuse  of  the  earth. 
Mock  jurisdiction  held  around  my  hearth. 

Sweet  isle !  methinks  I  see  thy  bosom  torn ; 

Again  behold  the  ruthless  rabble  throng, 

That  wrought  destruction  taste  must  ever  mourn. 

Alas !  I  see  thee  now — shall  see  thee  long ; 

But  ne'er  shall  bitter  feelings  urge  the  wrong. 

That  to  a  mob,  would  give  the  censure  due 

To  those  that  armed  the  plunder-greedy  crew. 

Thy  shores  are  warmed  by  bounteous  suns  in  vain, 

Columbia ! — if  spite  and  envy  spring, 

To  blot  the  beauty  of  mild  nature's  reign : 

The  European  stranger  who  would  fling, 

O'er  tangled  woods,  refinement's  polishing, 

May  find,  expended  every  plan  of  taste. 

His  works  by  ruffians  rendered  doubly  waste. 


'"This  refers  to  the  action  of  the  Wood  County,   Virginia,   Militia, 
that    destroyed   the    Blennerhassett    home. 


116  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

THE  HILLS  OF  OHIO.^« 

The  hills  of  Ohio,  how  sweetly  they  rise, 
In  the  beauty  of  nature  to  blend  with  the  skies ; 
With  fair  azure  outline,  and  tall  ancient  trees, 
Ohio,  my  country,  I  love  thee  for  these. 

The  homes  of  Ohio,  free,  fortuned,  and  fair. 
Full  many  hearts  treasure  a  sister's  love  there ; 
E'en  more  than  thy  hill-sides  or  streamlets  they  please, 
Ohio,  my  country,  I  love  thee  for  these. 

God  shield  thee,  Ohio,  dear  land  of  my  birth. 
And  thy  children  that  wander  afar  o'er  the  earth ; 
My  country  thou  art,  where'er  my  lot's  cast, 
Take  thou  to  thy  bosom  my  ashes  at  last. 


A  PARTY  SONG." 


"Arise,  my  true  love,  and  present  me  your  hand, 

And  we'll  march  in  procession  for  a  far  distant  land; 

Where  the  girls  will  card  and  spin. 

And  the  boys  will  plow  and  sow. 

And  we'll  settle  on  the  banks  of  the  pleasant  Ohio. 


""This  song  with  the  music  appeared  in  a  music  book,  'The  Key  of 
the  West."     The  air  for  it  may  be  found  in  Howe's  "Ohio,"   I.,  296. 

"This  is  the  verse  sung  in  some  of  the  games  of  young  people  at 
their  parties  in  the  east.  It  is  indicative  of  the  general  attitude  of  the 
people   regarding  the  new   land,   Ohio. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  117 

SANDUSKY.«2 

By  Judge  Elisha  W.  Rowland.     ( — 1854.)''^ 
There  is  a  prayer  now  going  round 

Which  I  dislike  to  hear, 
To  change  the  name  of  this  old  town 
I  hold  so  very  dear. 

They  pray  the  court  to  alter  it, 

I  pray  to  God  "they  won't; 
And  let  it  stand  Sandusky  yet 

And  not  John  C.  Fremont. 

Sandusky  is  a  pleasant  name ; 

'Tis   short  and  easy   spoken ; 
Descending  to  us  by  a  chain 

That  never  should  be  broken. 

Then  let  us  hand  it  down  the  stream 

Of  Time  to  after  ages, 
And  Sandusky  be  the  theme 

Of  future  bards  and  sages. 


^"This  poem  was  a  remonstrance  against  a  petition  to  the  County- 
Court  of  Sandusky  to  alter  the  name  of  Lower  Sandusky  to  that  of 
Fremont.  It  was  read  to  the  Court  by  Rutherford  B.  Hayes,  then  a 
young  attorney. 

"■^Judge  Rowland  came  to  Lower  Sandusky,  to  live,  about  1819.  He 
had  served  as  a  soldier  in  the  War  of  1812  and  was  in  the  Battle  of 
Lundy's  Lane.  By  trade  he  was  a  carpenter  and  cabinet  maker  and 
in  1819,  in  partnership  with  Thomas  L.  Hawkins,  he  constructed  a  re- 
markable river  craft,  to  ply  the  waters  of  Sandusky  River  and  Bay,  to 
which  was  given  the  classic  name  of  Pegassus.  He  held  the  office  of 
County  Commissioner  and  Judge  of  the  Common  Pleas  Court.  He  was 
a  man  of  ability,  quite  eccentric  in  character  and  noted  for  his  witty 
speeches  and  humorous  poetry. 


118  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Won't  the  old  honest  Sagums  rise, 
And  say  to  us  pale  faces, 

"Do  you  our  ancient  name  despise, 
And  change  our  resting  places? 

Our  fathers  slumbered  here ; 

Their  spirits  cry,  "Oh,  don't 
Alter  the  name  to  us  so  dear 

And  substitute  Fremont !" 

Therefore  my  prayer  shall  still  remain. 
Until  my  voice  grows  husky; 

Oh,  change  the  people  not  the  name 
Of  my  old  home,  Sandusky! 


THE  CUMBERLAND  STAGE. 

James  Ball  Naylor. 

Not  in  your  day  or  mine  have  we  known  it,  my  boy ; 
But  your  grandfather  counted  it  part  of  the  joy 
Of  the  Volume  of  Life — and  a  paramount  page 
Was  the  one  with  the  cut  of  the  Cumberland  Stage ! 
Over  hilltops  of  green,  over  highroads  of  brown, 
At  the  close  of  each  day  it  rolled  into  the  town ; 
And  with  rumble  and  rattle  and  clatter  and  din, 
It  drew  up  to  the  door  of  the  little  red  inn. 

To  the  crack  of  the  whip  and  the  blare  of  the  horn. 

The  four  horses — sleek-sided  with  clover  and  corn ! — 

All  indulged  in  a  dance,  as  the  driver  in  pride 

Touched  the  tip  of  his  lash  to  each  satiny  hide  ; 

And  the  mud-colored  wheels,  as  they  wabbled  and  whirled, 

Brought  a  promise  of  sights  from  the  far-away  world — 

So  each  youngster  in  town,  with  a  shrug  and  a  grin, 

Sought  a  place  near  the  door  of  the  little  red  inn. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  119 

The  old  Cumberland  Stage !     Its  great  body  or  bed— 
Of  a  weather-dimmed  yellow  and  weather-dulled  red ! — 
Groaned  a  grievous  complaint,  as  it  teetered  and  swung 
To  the  jolt  of  the  wheels  and  the  jerk  of  the  tongue; 
And  inside  were  the  travelers — famed  and  unfamed ! — 
While  atop  were  the  bundles  and  budgets  they  claimed; 
And  the  whole  of  those  travelers,  many  or  more, 
Tumbled  out  at  the  little  red  inn's  open  door. 

And  your  grandfather,  lad — for  your  grandfather  then 
Was  a  sturdy-limbed,  flaxen-haired  urchin  of  ten ! — 
Gaped  and  stared  at  those  travelers,  master  and  dame. 
Wond'ring  whither  they  journeyed  and  wherefore   they  came; 
And — as  boys  have  e'er  done  and  as  boys  will  repeat ! — 
He  was  over  their  luggage  and  under  their  feet, 
With  his  heart  swollen  big  with  the  hope  he  might  win 
A  few  coins,  at  the  door  of  the  little  red  inn. 

Ah,  those  travelers !    Wondrous  and  varied  the  store 
Of  belonging  they  had  and  rich  garments  they  wore ! 
There  were  b'and-boxes,  carpet-bags,  hair-covered  trunks, 
Piled  up  higgledy-piggledy — hummocks  and  chunks ; 
Satin  gowns  and  slat  bonnets  and  snuff-colored  suits — 
Baggy  coats,  and  tight  trousers  strapped  under  the  boots ! 
And  your  grandfather  marveled — but  couldn't  begin 
To  account  how  all  lodged  in  that  little  red  inn  ! 

The  old  Cumberland  Stage !    At  the  first  peep  of  day — 
Whether  winter  was  sullen  or  summer  was  gay ! — 
It  came  round  to  the  little  red  inn's  open  door. 
And  there  took  up  its  load  of  the  ev'ning  before; 
And  the  fat  boniface,  with  a  chuckle  as  shrill 
As  the  crow  of  a  cock,  and  a  royal  good-will. 
Shook  each  traveler's  hand  and  acknowledged  him  kin 
And  invited  him  back  to  the  little  red  inn ! 


120  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

It  was  off — it  was  off !     In  the  gray  of  the  morn, 
To  the  snap  of  the  whip  and  the  toot  of  the  horn, 
The  old  Cumberland  Stage  lumbered  out  of  the  town — 
Toward  the  hilltops  of  green  and  the  highroads  of  brown. 
It  was  gone — it  was  gone !     But  the  listening  ear 
Caught  the  sound  of  the  horn  rising  vibrant  and  clear, 
And  the  far-distant  rattle  and  clatter  and  din — 
And  alone  and  asleep  was  the  little  red  inn ! 


"OLD  BETSY."  «^ 
By  Thomas  L.  Hawkins. 


Hail !  thou  old  friend,  of  Fort  MeGee 
Little  did  I  expect  again  to  see, 
And  hear  thy  voice  of  victory, 
Thou  defender  of  Ohio ! 


"^This  famous  gun  that  so  valiantly  defended  Ft.  Stephenson  in 
1813  was  brought  back  to  Fremont  in  1852.  This  was  "Old  Betsey's" 
Home  Coming  and  there  v/as  a  great  celebration  upon  her  arrival.  This 
poem  was  read  on  that  occasion  by  by  Rev.  Thomas  L.  Hawkins,  who 
had  participated  in  the  battle  forty  years  before. 

"^Thomas  L.  Hawkins  was  a  highly  esteemed  citizen  of  Lower 
Sandusky,  now  Fremont,  in  the  first  half  of  the  last  century.  He  was 
a  many-sided  and  interesting  character,  a  soldier,  a  skilled  mechanic, 
business  man,  public  officer,  preacher,  artist,  dramatist  and  philosopher. 
He  served  in  the  War  of  1812  and  was  Keeper  of  the  Magazine  at 
Fort  Meigs,  during  the  siege,  and  was,  later,  in  the  battle  of  Lundy's 
Lane.  At  the  close  of  the  war  he  was  placed  in  charge  of  the  govern- 
ment property  at   Fort   Stephenson. 

In  1819  the  young  men  of  Lower  Sandusky  acted  the  play,  "She 
Stoops  to  Conquer."  Hawkins  wrote  the  prologue,  in  which  he  pre- 
dicted the  use  of  railroads,  steamboats  and  telegraphs.  He  painted  the 
scenery    and    acted   the    principal    parts. 

In  1853  he  published  at  Columbus,  Ohio,  a  volume  of  "Poetic 
Miscellany  and  World's  Wonder." 


Poems  on  Ohio.  12? 

I  wonder  who  it  is  was  that  sought  thee, 
To  victory's  ground  again  hath  brought  thee 
From  strangers'  hands  at  length  hath  caught  thee ; 
He  is  a  friend  to  great  Ohio ! 

He  is  surely  worthy  of  applause, 
To  undertake  so  good  a  cause, 
Although  a  pleader  of  her  laws, 
And  statutes  of  Ohio. 

What  shame  thy  blockhouse  is  not  standing, 
Thy  pickets  as  at  first  commanding, 
Protecting  Sandusky's  noble  landing, 
The  frontier  of  Ohio ! 

Thy  pickets,  alas !  are  all  unreared, 
No  faithful  sentinel  on  guard, 
Nor  band  of  soldiers  well  prepared. 
Defending  great  Ohio. 

Where  have  the  upthrown  ditches  gone. 
By  British  cannon  rudely  torn  ? 
Alas !  with  grass  they  are  o'ergrown, 
Neglected  by  Ohio. 

O  tell  me  where  thy  chieftains  all — 
Croghan,  Dudley,  Miller,  Ball, 
Some  of  whom  I  know  did  fall 
In  defending  of  Ohio. 

Canst  thou  not  tell  how  Proctor  swore, 
When  up  yon  matted  turf  he  tore,  * 

Which  shielded  us  from  guns  a  score. 
He  poured  upon  Ohio  ? 

And  how  Tecumseh  lay  behind  you ; 
With  vain  attempts  he  tried  to  blind  you, 
And  unprepared,  he'd  find  you, 
And  lead  vou  from  Ohio. 


122  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Perhaps  like  Hamlet's  ghost,  you've  come, 
This  day  to  celebrate  the  fame 
Of  Groghan's  honored,  worthy  name. 
The  hero  of  Ohio. 

I  greet  thee !     Thou  art  just  in  time 
To  tell  of  victory  most  sublime. 
Though  told  in  unconnected  rhyme; 
Thou  art  welcome  in  Ohio. 

But  since  thou  canst  thyself  speak  well, 
Now  let  thy  thundering  voice  tell 
What  bloody  carnage  then  befell 
The  foes  of  great  Ohio. 

(And  then  she  thundered  loud.) 


THE  OLD  NATIONAL  ROAD.«« 

By  James  Ball  Naylor. 

The  old  National  Road !     What  a  play  of  romance 
Is  called  up  by  the  name ;  and  the  shadows  advance 
From  their  corners  obscure  at  the  back  of  the  stage, 
And  evolve  into  shapes — into  scenes  of  an  age 
Whose  sweet  graces  were  too  quaint  and  homely  to  last, 
And  are  gone  with  the  roses  and  rue  of  the  past ! 
Let  the  bard,  to  the  strains  of  his  lyre,  frame  an  ode 
To  that  Highway  of  Hope — the  old  National  Road ! 


°°In  the  initial  number  of  The  Ohio  Magazine,  July,  1906,  this 
splendid  poem  of  Dr.  Naylor,  "The  Buckeye  Poet,"  appeared.  A  splen- 
did account  of  the  Old  National  Road  can  be  found  in  Volume  IX  of 
the  Ohio  Historical  Publications.  It  was  written  by  Archer  Butler  Hul- 
iert,  who  is  an  authority  on  the  roadways  of   America. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  123 

From  the  sweet-smelling  Maryland  meadows  it  crawled, 
Through  the  forest  primeval,  o'er  hills  granite — walled ; 
On  and  up,  up  and  on,  'till  it  conquered  the  crest 
Of  the  mountains — and  wound  away  into  the  West. 
'Twas  the  Highway  of  Hope !  And  the  pilgrims  who  trod 
It  were  Lords  of  the  Woodland  and  Sons  of  the  Sod  ; 
And  the  hope  of  their  hearts  was  to  win  an  abode 
At  the  end — the  far  end  of  the  National  Road. 

The  old  National  Road !     It  stretched  on — ever  on, 
Toward  the  land  where  humanity's  vanguard  had  gone  ; 
Past  the  spring  on  the  mountain,  the  rill  in  the  dale — 
By  the  hut  on  the  hillside,  the  inn  in  the  vale. 
And  the  beings  it  loved  and  the  people  it  knew 
Were  untutored  and  primitive,  kindly  and  true ; 
And  the  face  of  the  midsummer  sun  ever  glowed 
With  a  smile  for  the  faithful  old  National  Road. 

From  the  foot  of  the  mountain  still  westward  it  trailed, 
Till  the  footprints  of  settlements  faltered — and  failed; 
Under  skies  that  were  blustering,  skies  that  were  bland. 
Over  turbulent  streams  that  no  bridge  had  e'er  spanned 
But  the  Rainbow  of  Promise ;  and  ended  its  quest 
Where  the  birds  and  the  brooks  of  Ohio  sang — "Rest."' 
"Equal  chances  and  favors  for  all !"  was  the  code 
Of  the  open  and  honest  old  National  Road. 

The  old  National  Road !     In  the  heat  and  the  cold, 
There  the  emigrant's  canvas — topped  vehicle  rolled ; 
'Twas  a  great  Conestoga — its  wheels  groaning  sore 
Of  the  journey  they  made  and  the  burden  they  bore. 
Uncomplaining  the  lank  oxen  swaggered  and  swung, 
Under  yoke,  at  the  sides  of  the  teetering  tongue ; 
And  the  family  cow,  poor  and  patient  was  towed 
At  the  end  of  a  rope — down  the  National  Road. 

From  the  close-covered  depths  of  the  big  wagon-bed 
Peeped  out  laddie  and  lassie  and  tiny  towhead — 


124  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Half  a  dozen  at  least,  for  the  pioneer's  wife 

Thought  to  people  the  land  was  a  part  of  her  life; 

And  they  huddled  and  whispered,  and  clamored  and  yelled, 

At  the  noises  they  heard  and  the  sights  they  beheld, 

While  the  father  and  mother  contentedly  strode 

Toward  their  far-away  home — down  the  National  Road. 

The  old  National  Road !     'Twas  a  broad  avenue 

Leading  straight  to  the  wealth  the  West  offered  in  lieu 

Of  the  barren  reward  the  East  promised  to  give — 

Grim  compulsion  to  toil  and  permission  to  live; 

So  the  gate  of  the  mountains  saw  thousands  pass  through, 

Bearing  on,  ever  on,  from  the  old  to  the  new. 

And  our  best  blood  today  is  the  red  blood  that  flowed 

In  the  veins  of  the  Man  of  the  National  Road ! 


THE  OLD  RIVER  BRIDGE. 

By  James  Ball  Naylor. 

(Read  at  the  dedication  of  the  Malta-McConnellsville  steel  bridge, 
July  8th,  1902.  The  new  steel  bridge  superseded  the  old  wooden  toll 
bridge  built  in  1867). 

The  old  river  bridge,  grown  decrepit  and  gray, 

In  the  warfare  of  years  has,  alas,  passed  away ; 

For  Time  the  remorseless  has  triumphed  at  last — 

And  the  faithful  old  bridge  is  a  part  of  the  past. 

Like  a  warrior  it  stood,  with  its  feet  in  the  tide 

And  its  lean  arms  outstretched  to  the  bridegroom  and  bride 

Saying :     "Lovers  unwitting,  God's  will  has  been  done  ! 

I've  blessed  ye  and  bound  ye ;  ye  twain  are  made  one !" 

When  the  elements  battled  and  thunderbolts  fell — 
Like  arrows,  God-flung,  at  the  ramparts  of  hell ; 
When  a  crash  of  the  storm  sent  a  chill  to  the  blood, 
And  the  highway  of  man  was  the  gateway  of  flood ; 


Poems  on  Ohio.  125 

Then  the  sturdy  old  bridge  strained  its  sinews  of  wood, 

And  stiffened,  and  quivered,  and  tottered — but  stood ! 

And  the  message  it  sent  o'er  the  turbulent  tide 

Was:     "I've  bound  ye  and  blessed  ye;  no  storm  shall  divide!" 

At  night — in  mid-winter  when  snowdrifts  lay  deep, 
And  the  wind  was  awake  and  the  world  was  asleep ; 
Or  in  summer,  when  hill-top  and  housetop  and  stream 
Were  aglint  with  the  touch  of  the  moon's  paly  beam ; 
Then  the  old  wooden  bridge,  that  no  ill  might  betide. 
Kept  guard  o'er  the  slumbering  bridegroom  and  bride. 
And  the  words  that  it  murmured  at  daybreak's  release 
Were:     "I've  guarded  and  kept  ye;  sleep  on — sleep  in  peace!" 

Ah,  the  old  river-bridge  felt  the  terrors  and  tears 
Of  the  twain  it  had  joined — all  their  sorrows  and  fears ! 
And  it  also,  partook  of  their  pastimes  and  joy — 
Knew  their  frolicsome  girls  and  their  rollicksome  boys ! 
And  its  rigid,  impassive,  old  features  of  oak 
Went  aquiver  with  smiles,  at  the  crack  of  a  joke 
Or  the  trill  of  a  laugh ;  and  it  whispered :     "Ah  me ! 
May  their  lives  full  of  pleasure  and  happiness  be !" 

But  there  came  in  the  year  of  the  century's  birth — 

Sent  by  Time  the  remorseless,  the  ruler  of  earth — 

A  panoplied  knight  in  a  harness  of  steel ; 

And  the  old  wooden  bridge  felt  the  conqueror's  heel ! 

Knowing  well  that  its  battles  and  triumphs  were  o'er — 

That  the  friends  it  had  loved  would  now  need  it  no  more, 

It  sank  down  to  rest  with  the  tremulous  sigh : 

"I've  blessed  ye  and  served  ye;  God  keep  ye — Goodbye!" 


126  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

LEWIS  WETZEL. 

By  Florus  B.  Plimpton.     (1830 — )*^ 
I. 

Stout-hearted  Lewis  Wetzel 

Rode  down  the  river  shore, 

The  wilderness  behind  him 

And  the  wilderness  before. 

He  rode  in  the  cool  of  morning, 
Humming  a  dear  old  tune, 

Into  the  heart  of  the  greenwood, 
Into  the  heart  of  June. 

He  needs  no  guide  in  the  forest 
More  than  the  hunter  bees ; 

His  guides  are  the  cool  green  mosses 
To  the  northward  of  the  trees. 

Nor  fears  he  the  foe  whose  footstep 
Is  light  as  the  summer  air — 

The  tomahawk  hangs  in  his  shirt  belt. 
And  the  scalp-knife  glitters  there! 

The  stealthy  Wyandots  tremble 

And  speak  his  name  with  fear, 

For  his  aim  is  sharp  and  deadly, 
And  his  rifle's  ring  is  clear. 


"Florus  B.  Plimton  was  born  in  Palmyra,  Portage  County,  Ohio. 
His  father  was  a  Methodist  minister,  who  came  to  the  Western  Reserve 
from  Connecticut.  He  was  educated  at  Allegheny  College,  Meadville, 
Pennsylvania.  His  life  was  spent  in  journalistic  work,  being  connected 
with  various  newspapers  in  New  York,  Michigan  and  Ohio.  He  was 
also  a  contributor  to  many  of  the  magazines  of  the  country.  Poetry 
writing  has  been  to  him  much  as  a  recreation. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  127 

So  pleasantly  rode  he  onward, 

Pausing  to  hear  the  stroke 
Of  the  settler's  ax  in  the  forest, 

Or  the  crash  of  a  falling  oak ; 

Pausing  at  times  to  gather 

The  wild  fruit  overhead 
(For  in  this  rarest  of  June  days 

The  service-berries  were  red.) 

And  as  he  grasped  the  full  boughs 

To  bend  them  down  amain, 
The  dew  and  the  Mushing  berries 

Fell  like  an  April  rain. 

The  partridge  drums  on  the  dry  oak, 

The  croaking  corby  caws, 
The  black-bird  sings  in  the  spice  bush, 

And  the  robin  in  the  haws. 

And  as  they  chatter  and  twitter, 

The  wild  birds  seem  to  say, 
*'Do  not  harm  us,  good  Lewis, 

And  you  shall  have  luck  today." 

So,  pleasantly  rode  he  onward 

Till  the  shadows  marked  the  noon. 
Into  the  leafy  greenwood 

Into  the  heart  of  June. 

II. 

Now  speed  thee  on,  good  Lewis, 

For  the  sultry  sun  goes  down, 
The  hill-side  shadows  lengthen. 

And  the  eastern  sky  is  brown. 


?28  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Now  speed  thee  where  the  river 
Creeps  slow  in  the  covers  cool, 

And  the  lilies  nod  their  white  bells 
By  the  margin  of  the  pool. 

He  crossed  the  silver  Kaska 

With  its  chestnut-covered  hills 

And  the  fetlocks  of  his  roan  steed 
Were  wet  in  a  hundred  rills, 

"And  there,"  he  cried  in  transport, 
"The  alders  greenest  grow. 

Where  the  wild  stag  comes  for  water, 
And  her  young  fawn  leads  the  doe." 

Grasping  his  trusty  rifle. 

He  whistled  his  dog  behind, 

Then  stretched  his  finger  upward 
To  know  how  set  the  wind. 

O  steady  grew  the  strong  arm 

And  the  hunter's  dark  eye  keen, 

As  he  saw  the  branching  antlers 

Through  the  alder  thickets  green. 

A  sharp,  clear  ring  through  the  greenwood, 
And  with  mighty  leap  and  bound. 

The  pride  of  the  western  forest 
Lay  bleeding  on  the  ground. 

Then  out  from  the  leafy  shadow 
A  stalwart  hunter  sprang, 

And  his  unsheathed  scalp-knife  glittering 
Against  his  rifle  rang. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  129: 

"And  who  are  you?"  quoth  Lewis, 

"That  comes  'twixt  me  and  mine?" 
And  his  cheek  was  flushed  with  anger, 

As  a  Bacchant's  flushed  with  wine. 

"What  boots  that  to  thy  purpose?" 

The   stranger   hotly   said; 
"I  marked  the  prize  when  Hving, 

And  it  is  mine  when  dead." 

Then  their  sinewy  arms  were  grappled, 

And  they  wrestled  long  and  well, 
Till  stretched  along  the  greensward 

The  humbled  hunter  fell. 

Upspringing  like  a  panther 

In  pain  and  wrath  he  cried, 
"Though  your  arms  may  be  the  stronger, 

Our  rifles  shall  decide." 

"Stay,  stranger,"  Quoth  good  Lewis, 

"The  chances  are  not  even ; 
Who  challanges  my  rifle 

Should  be  at  peace  with  heaven. 

"Now  take  this  rod  of  alder. 

And  set  by  yonder  tree, 
A  hundred  yards  b'eyond  me. 

And  wait  you  there  and  see. 

"For  he  who  dares  such  peril 

But  lightly  holds  his  breath; 
May  his  unshrived  soul  be  ready 

To  welcome  sudden  death!" 


130  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

So  the  stranger  took  the  alder 

And  wondering  stood  to  view, 

While  Wetzel's  aim  grew  steady, 
And  he  cut  the  rod  in  two. 

"By  heaven" !  the  stranger  shouted, 

"One  only,  far  or  nigh, 
Hath  arks  like  the  Hthe  young  ash  tree, 

Or  half  so  keen  of  eye. 

And  that  is  Lewis  Wetzel :" 

Quoth  Lewis,  "Here  he  stands ;" 

So  they  spoke  in  gentle  manner, 

And  clasped  their  friendly  hands. 

Then  talked  the  mighty  hunters, 
Till  the  summer  dew  descends, 

And  they  who  met  as  foemen 

Rode  out  of  the  greenwood  friends — 

Rode  out  of  the  leafy  greenwood 
As  rose  the  yellow  moon 

And  the  purple  hills  lay  pleasantly 
In  the  softened  air  of  June. 


AT  THE  GRAVE  OF  SIMON  KENTON."' 

By  William  Hubbard.     (1821-1872.)"* 

Tread  lightly,  this  is  hallowed  ground! — tread  reverently  here! 

Beneath  this  sod  in  silence  sleeps  the  brave  old  Pioneer, 

Who  never  quailed  in  darkest  hour,  whose  heart  ne'er  felt  a 

fear — 
Tread  lightly  then,  and  here  bestow  the  tribute  of  a  tear. 


""The  grave  of  Simon  Kenton  is  about  five  miles  northeast  of 
Bellefontaine. 

*°William  Hubbard  was  born  in  the  village  of  West  Liberty,  Logan 
County,  Ohio.     His  father  died  when  he  was  a  mere  child  and  hi?  edu- 


Poems  on  Ohio.  131 

Ah,  can  this  be  the  spot  where  sleeps  the  bravest  of  the  brave? 
Is  this  rude  slag  the  only  mark  of  Simon  Kenton's  grave? 
These  fallen  palings,  are  they  all  his  ingrate  country  gave 
To  one  who  periled  life  so  oft  her  homes  and  hearts  to  save? 

Long,  long  ago  in  manhood's  prime,  when  all  was  wild  and  drear, 
They  bound  the  hero  to  a  stake  of  savage  torment  here — 
Unblanched  and  firm,  his  soul  disdained  a  supplicating  tear — 
A  thousand  demons  would  not  daunt  the  Western  Pioneer. 

They  tied  his  hands,  Mazeppa-like,  and  set  him  on  a  steed, 
Wild  as   the  mustang  of   the   plains — and,   mocking  bade   him 

speed ! 
Then  sped  the  courser  like  the  wind,  of  curb  and  bit  all  freed, 
O'er  flood  and  field,  o'er  hill  and  dale  wherever  chance  might 

lead! 

But  firm  in  every  trial  hour,  his  heart  was  still  the  same — 

Still  throbbed  with  self-reliance  strong  which  danger  could  not 

tame. 
Yet  fought  he  not  that  he  might  win  the  splendor  of  a  fame. 
Which  would,  in  ages  long  to  come,  shed  glory  on  his  name; 

He  fought  because  he  loved  the  land  where  first  he  saw  the 

light- 
He  fought  because  his  soul  was  true,  and  idolized  the  right; 
And  ever  in  the  fiercest  and  the  thickest  of  the  fight 
The  dusk  and  swarthy  foeman  felt  the  terror  of  his  might. 


cation  devolved  entirely  upon  his  mother,  a  woman  of  strong  character. 
Logan  County  was  still  a  pioneer  section  in  those  days,  and  the  log 
school  house  was  the  only  means  of  education  beyond  the  home  training. 
When  eleven  years  old  he  was  placed  in  a  printing  office  and  the  re- 
mainder of  his  life  was  spent  not  very  far  away  from  ink  and  type. 
He  taught  school  for  a  time,  studied  law,  was  admitted  to  the  bar  and 
served  two  terms  as  Prosecuting  Attorney  of  his  county.  But  his 
tastes  were  literary  and  as  editor  of  a  paper  and  author  of  verse  he 
is  best  to  be   remembered. 


132  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Are  these  his  countrymen  who  dwell  where  long  ago  he  came  ? 
Are  these  the  men  who  glory  in  the  splendor  of  his  fame? 
And  can  they  not  afford  to  give  a  stone  to  bear  his  name  ? 
O  never  let  them  more  presume  the  hero's  dust  to  claim ! 


APPLESEED  JOHN. 

By  Lydia  Maria  Child.     (1802-1880.)' 

Old  Johnny  was  bent  well-nigh  double 
With  years  of  toil  and  care  and  trouble, 
But  his  large  old  heart  oft  felt  the  need 
Of  doing  for  others  some  kindly  deed. 


"But  what  can  I  do  ?"  old  Johnny  said ; 
I,  who  work  so  hard  for  daily  bread  ? 
It  takes  heaps  of  money  to  do  so  much  good. 
I  am  far  too  poor  to  do  as  I  would." 

The  old  man  sat  deeply  thinking  awhile, 
Then  over  his  features  gleamed  a  smile, 
While  he  clapped  his  hands  with  childish  glee 
And  said  to  himself,  "There's  a  way  for  me !" 

So  he  went  to  work  with  might  and  main. 
But  told  to  none  the  plan  of  his  brain. 
He  took  stale  apples  in  payment  for  chores 
And  carefully  cut  from  them  all  the  cores. 


""Lydia  Marie  Child  is  the  PhUothea  of  Lowell's  "Fable  for  Critics." 
She  was  born  at  Medford,  Mass.,  and  died  in  Wayland,  Mass.  As  a 
writer  she  was  noted  for  her  support  of  the  Abolition  movement.  From 
1840  till  1843  she  was  editor  of  the  National  Anti-Slavery  Standard. 
Among  her  works  may  be  mentioned,  The  Rebels,  182J :  The  Amer- 
ican   Frugal   Housewife,    1829 ;    Flowers    for   Children,    1844-46. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  133 

When  he  filled  his  bag  he  wandered  away 

And  no  man  saw  him  for  many  a  day. 

With  the  well  strapped  bag  o'er  his  shoulder  flung 

He  wandered  along  and  whistled  or  sung. 

He  seemed  to  roam  with  no  object  in  view, 
Like  one  who  has  nothing  on  earth  to  do, 
But  rambling  thus  o'er  prairies  wide 
He  paused  sometimes  and  his  bag  untied. 

His  sharp-pointed  cane  deep  holes  would  bore 
And  in  every  hole  he  placed  a  core ; 
He  covered  them  well  and  left  them  there 
In  keeping  with  sunshine,  rain  and  air. 

Sometimes  for  days  he  waded  through  grass 
And  saw  never  a  living  creature  pass, 
Though  oft  when  sinking  to  sleep  in  the  dark 
He  heard  owls  hoot  and  prairie  dogs  bark. 

But  sometimes  butterflies  perched  on  his  thumbs 
And  birds  swarmed  round  him  to  pick  up  his  crumbs ; 
They  knew  he  carried  no  arrow  or  gun 
And  never  did  mischief  to  any  one. 

For  he  was  tender  to  all  dumb  things 
That  crept  on  the  earth  or  soared  on  wings 
He  stepped  aside  lest  a  worm  should  die. 
And  never  had  heart  to  hurt  a  fly. 

Sometimes  an  Indian  of  sturdy  limb 
Came  striding  along  and  walked  with  him 
Whichever  had  food  shared  with  the  other, 
As  if  he  had  met  a  hungry  brother. 

When  the  Indian  saw  how  the  bag  was  filled, 
And  noticed  the  holes  that  the  white  man  drilled, 
He  thought  to  himelf  'twas  a  silly  plan 
To  be  planting  seed  for  some  future  man. 


134  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Sometimes  a  log  cabin  came  in  view 
Where  John  was  sure  to  find  jobs  to  do, 
By  which  he  gained  stores  of  bread  and  meat 
And  welcome  rest  for  his  weary  feet. 

He  hilled  potatoes  and  hoed  the  corn, 

And  mended  shoes  that  were  sometimes  worn; 

He  taught  the  babies  to  use  their  legs, 

And  helped  the  boys  to  hunt  for  eggs. 

He  was  so  hearty  at  work  or  play 
That  every  one  urged  a  longer  stay, 
But  he  replied,  "I  have  something  to  do, 
And  I  must  go  on  to  carry  it  through." 

The  boys  who  were  sure  to  follow  him  round 
Soon  found  what  it  was  he  put  in  the  ground; 
So  as  time  passed  and  he  traveled  on 
All  the  folks  called  his  Appleseed  John. 

When  he  used  up  the  whole  of  his  store 
He  went  to  cities  and  worked  for  more; 
Then  ofif  he  marched  to  the  wilds  again 
And  planted  seeds  in  prairie  and  glen. 

In  cities  some  said  the  man  was  crazy ; 
Others  said,  No,  he  was  only  lazy. 
But  he  took   no  notice  of  gibes  and  jeers, 
He  knew  he  was  working  for  future  years. 

He  knew  that  trees  would  soon  abound, 
Where  once  a  tree  could  never  be  found ; 
That  a  flickering  play  of  light  and  shade 
Would  make  dancing  shadows  on  the  glade. 

That  blossoming  boughs  would  form  full  bowers. 
And  sprinkle  the  earth  with  rosy  showers. 
And  the  little  seeds  his  hands  had  spread 
Would  form  ripe  apples  when  he  was  dead. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  135 

So  he  kept  traveling,  far  and  wide, 

Till  his  old  limbs  failed  him  and  he  died. 

He  said,  at  last:     "Tis  a  comfort  to  feel 

I've  done  some  good  in  the  world,  though  not  a  great  deal.'  " 

Weary  travelers,  journeying  west, 
In  the  shade  of  his  trees  find  pleasant  rest. 
And  often  they  start  with  glad  surprise 
At  the  rosy  fruit  that  around  them  lies. 

And  if  they  inquire  whence  came  such  trees. 
Where  not  a  bough  once  swayed  in  the  breeze. 
The  reply  still  comes,  as  they  travel  on, 
"These  trees  were  planted  by  Appleseed  John." 


ELIZABETH  ZANE.^^^ 

By  John  S.  Adams. 

[St.  NicJwlas.] 

This  dauntless  pioneer  maiden's  name 

Is  inscribed  in  gold  on  the  scroll  of  fame. 

She  was  the  lassie  who  knew  no  fear 

When  the  tomahawk  gleamed  on  the  far  frontier. 

If  deeds  of  daring  should  win  renown. 

Let  us  honor  this  damsel  of  Wheeling  town. 

Who  braved  the  savages  with  deep  disdain, — 

Bright-eyed  buxom  Elizabeth  Zane. 

'Tis  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago. 
They  were  close  beset  by  the  dusky  foe  ; 
They  had  spent  of  powder  their  scanty  store, 
And  who  should  the  gauntlet  run  for  more  ? 


"'The  act  narrated  in  the  poem  occurred  at  the  siege  of  Fort 
Henry  in  1782.  Elizabeth  Zane  was  a  sister  of  Ebenezer  Zane,  the  com- 
mander of  the  fort  and  the  man  for  whom  Zanesville  was  named. 


136  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

She  sprang  to  the  portal  and  shouted,  "I 
'Tis  better  a  girl  than  a  man  should  die ! 
My  loss  would  be  but  the  garrison's  gain. 
Unbar  the  gate!"  said  Elizabeth  Zane. 

The  powder  was  sixty  yards  away 

Around  her  the  foemen  in  ambush  lay ; 

As  she  darted  from  shelter  they  gazed  with  awe 

Then  wildly  shouted,  "A  squaw !  A  squaw !" 

She  neither  swerved  from  left  or  right, 

Swift  as  an  antelope's  was  her  flight. 

"Quick!  open  the  door!"  she  cried  amain, 

For  a  hope  forlorn  !     'Tis  Elizabeth  Zane ! 

No  time  had  she  to  waver  or  wait 
Back  must  she  go  ere  it  be  too  late ; 
She  snatched  from  the  table  its  cloth  in  haste 
And  knotted  it  deftly  around  her  waist, 
Then  filled  it  with  powder — never,  I  ween, 
Had  powder  so  lovely  a  magazine  ; 
Then  scorning  the  bullets'  deadly  rain. 
Like  a  startled  fawn,  fled  Elizabeth  Zane. 

She  gained  the  fort  with  her  precious  freight ; 
Strong  hands  fastened  the  oaken  gate ; 
Brave  men's  eyes  were  suffused  with  tears 
That  had  been  strangers  for  many  years. 
From  flintlock  rifles  again  there  sped 
'Gainst  the  skulking  red-skins  a  storm  of  lead. 
And  the  war-whoop  sounded  that  day  in  vain. 
Thanks  to  the  deed  of  Elizabeth  Zane. 

Talk  not  to  me  of  Paul  Revere 

A  man  on  horseback  with  naught  to  fear ; 

Nor  of  old  John   Burns   with  his  bell-crowned   hat- 

He'd  an  army  to  back  him,  so  what  of  that  ? 

Here's  to  the  heroine,  plump  and  brown. 

Who  ran  the  gauntlet  in  Wheeling  town ; 

Here  is  a  record  without  a  stain, — 

Beautiful,  buxom  Elizabeth  Zane. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  137 

TECUMSEH. 
By  Jessie  V.  Donnell. 

[Magazine  of  Western  History.] 

True  son  of  the  forest,  whose  towering  form 
Imaged  the  pine  in  the  wind-driven  storm  ; 
Whose  eye  like  the  eagle's  pierced  keen  and  far, 
Or  burned  with  the  light  of  a  fiery  star ; 
Whose  voice  was  the  river's  tempestuous  roar, 
The  surging  of  waves  on  a  pitiless  shore. 

His  tongue  was  a  flame  that  leaped  through  the  West 

Enkindling  a  spark  in  each  rude  savage  breast ; 

The  wind  of  the  prairies,  resistless  and  free. 

Was  the  breath  of  his  passionate  imagery ; 

Ah!     Never  were  poet's  dreams  more  grand, 

Nor  even  a  Caesar  more  nobly  planned ! 

His  brain  was  as  broad  as  the  prairies'  sweep ; 
His  heart  like  a  mountain  cavern  deep. 
Where  silent  and  shadowed  the  water  lies. 
Yet  mirrors  a  gleam  from  the  star-strewn  skies ; 
His  soul  ablaze  with  a  purpose  high, 
Disdain  of  possession,  scorn  of  a  lie. 

What  was  Tecumseh  ?     A  threatening  cloud 

Over  the  untrodden  wilderness  bowed, 

Bringing  the  storm  in  its  desolate  train. 

Heralding  rush  of  the  hurricane ! 

Such  to  his  foes :  to  his  friends  a  spark, 

That  a  moment  gleamed  through  the  gathering  dark. 

A  comet-flash  through  a  midnight  sky ; 

The  wail  of  the  wind  as  it  hurried  by ; 

The  flight  of  a  bird  on  its  untamed  wings, — 

All  wild,  resistless,  impetuous  things, 

Symbol,  though  faintly,  that  barbaric  guide 

Who  led  forth  to  freedom,  and  failed  and  died. 


138  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Was  Tecumseh  then  blit  a  failure?     A  light 

That  faded  for  aye  in  eternity's  night? 

Will  the  sons  of  the  forest  forget  their  pride 

Forget  that  a  hero  still  he  died  ? 

Defeat  is  not  a  failure  when  spirits  are  brave ; 

God  wastes  not  the  spark  his  divinity  gave. 

Great  souls  are  not  made  for  failure;  they  fall 
But  God  in  his  patience  regathers  them  all ; 
Like  stars  they  are  set  in  the  dimness  of  time 
To  illumine  the  world  with  their  light  sublime; 
And  while  glimmers  a  ray  from  the  mightiest  star, 
The  soul  of  Tecumseh  shall  shine  from  afar. 


JOHN  GRAY,  WASHINGTON'S  LAST  SOLDIER.^^' 

(born   near   MT.  VERNON.  VA.,  JAN.   6,    1764;  DIED   NEAR   HIRAMS- 

burg,  o.,  march  29,  1 868.) 

By  Private  Dalzell.     (1838— )^*'3 

(Read  at  the  Marietta  Centennial  Celebration). 

One  by  one  the  severed  links  have  started 

Bonds  that  bound  us  to  the  sacred  past; 
One  by  one,  our  patriot  sires  departed, 

Time  hath  brought  us  to  behold  the  last; 
Last  of  all  who  won  our  earthly  glory. 

Lonely  traveler  of  the  weary  way, 
Poor,  unknown,  unnamed  in  song  or  story. 

In  his  western  cabin  lives  John  Gray. 


"^Passengers  on  the  "Narrow-guage"  running  between  Zanesville 
and  Bellaire  can  see  the  "Meadow"  cemetery  on  the  left  hand  just  as 
you  approach  Hiramsburg  from  the  west. 

'"'James  M.  Dalzell  of  Noble  County,  was  a  prolific  writer  and  his 
pen  championed  the  cause  of  the  soldiers  of  the  Civil  War.  He  was 
the  originator  of  the  Soldiers'  Reunions.  He  was  born  in  Allegheny 
Cit}',  Pa.,  and  was  nine  years  old  when  he  came  to  Ohio.     .At  the  out- 


Poems  on  Ohio.  139 

Deign  to  stoop  to  rural  shades,  sweet  Clio ! 

Sing  the  hero  of  the  sword  and  plow ; 
On  the  borders  of  his  own  Ohio, 

Weave  a  laurel  for  the  veteran's  brow; 
While  attuned  unto  the  murmuring  waters 

Flows  the  burden  of  our  pastoral  lay, 
Bid  the  fairest  of  Columbia's  daughters, 

O'er  his  locks  of  silver  crown  John  Gray. 

Slaves  of  self  and  serfs  of  vain  ambition — 

Toilful  strivers  of  the  city's  mart. 
Turn  awhile,  and  bless  the  sweet  transition 

Unto  scenes  that  soothe  the  care-worn  heart; 
Turn  with  me  to  yonder  moss-thatched  dwelling, 

Wreathed  in  woodbine  and  wild-rose  spray, 
While  the  muse  his  simple  tale  is  telling 

Tottering  on  his  crutches,  see  John  Gray. 

When  Defeat  had  pressed  his  bitter  chalice 

To  the  lips  of  England's  haughty  lord, — 
Bowed  in  shame  the  brow  of  stern  Cornwallis, 

And  at  Yorktown  claimed  his  bloody  sword ; 
At  the  crowning  of  the  siege  laborious — 

At  the  triumph  of  this  glorious  day. 
Near  his  chieftain  in  the  ranks  victorious, 

Stood  the  youthful  soldier,  brave  John  Gray. 

While  he  vowed  through  peace  their  love  should  burn  on — 

While  he  bade  his  tearful  troops  farewell 
One  alone  unto  thy  shades.  Blount  Vernon. 

Called  the  chieftain  with  himself  to  dwell. 


break  of  the  Civil  War  he  was  a  student  at  college.  For  two  years  he 
served  as  a  private  in  the  One  Hundred  and  Sixteenth  O.  V.  I.  At 
the  close  of  the  war  he  studied  law,  filled  a  clerkship  at  Washington 
and  then  settled  down  at  Caldwell,  Ohio.  He  represented  his  county 
two  terms  in  the  Legislature  and  has  taken  active  part  in  several 
political  campaigns.  His  writings,  covering  a  broad  field,  have  appeared 
in   newspapers  and   magazines   over   the   land. 


140  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Proud  to  serve  the  Father  of  the  Nation, 

Glad  to  hear  the  voice  that  bade  him  stay 

Year  by  year  upon  the  broad  plantation. 

Unto  ripened  manhood  toiled  John  Gray. 

Sowed  and  reaped  and  gathered  to  the  garner 

All  the  summer  plenty's  golden  sheaves. — 
Sowed  and  reaped  till  Time  the  ruthless  warner, 

Whispered  through  the  dreary  autumn  leaves : 
"Wherefore  tarry?     Freedom's  skies  are  o'er  thee; 

Winter  f rowneth  ere  the  blush  of  May  : 
Lo,  is  not  a  goodly  land  before  thee? 

Up  and  choose  thee  now  a  home.  John  (iray." 

Thus  he  heard  the  words  of  duty's  warning. 

And  he  saw  the  rising  Empire-star 
Dawning  dimly  on  the  Nation's  morning — 

Guiding  westward  Emigration's  car. 
Heard  and  saw  and  quickly  rose  to  follow, 

He  bore  his  rifle  for  the  savage  prey. 
Bore  his  ax  that  soon  in  greenwood  hollow 

Timed  thy  sylvan  ballads,  bold  John  Gray. 

Blessed  with  love  his  lonely  labors  cheering. 

Blithe  the  hearthstone  of  that  forest  nook, 
Where  arose  his  cabin  in  the  "Clearing," 

Near  the  meadow  with  its  purling  brook ; 
Where  his  children  from  their  noon-day  laughter 

Turned  at  eve  and  left  their  joyous  play, 
Flushed  and  still  when  the  great  hereafter 

Spake  the  Christian  father,  meek  John  Gray. 

Oh,  the  years  of  mingled  joy  and  sadness ! 

Oh,  the  hour.s — the  countless  hours  of  toil, 
Sliared  alike  through  sorrow  and  through  gladness 

By  loved  hands  now  mouldering  in  the  soil ; 
Oh,  the  anguish  stifled  in  the  shadow 

Of  the  gloom  that  bore  her  form  away ! 
'Neath  yon  mound  she  slumbers  in  the  meadow, 

Waiting,  meekly  waiting  thee.  John  Gray. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  141 

All  clay  long  upon  the  threshold  sitting, 

Where  the  sunbeams  through  the  bright  leaves  shine — 
Where  the  zephyrs  through  his  white  locks  flitting, 

Softly  whispers  of  the  "aud  lang  syne." 
How  he  loves  on  holy  thoughts  to  ponder; 

How  his  eyes  the  azure  heaven  survey. 

Or  toward  yon  meadow  dimly  wander; — 

Yes,  beside  her  thou  shalt  sleep.     John  Gray. 

In  the  tomb  thy  comrades'  bodies  slumber, — 

Unto  heaven  their  souls  have  flown  before; 
Only  one  is  "missing"  of  their  number, — 

Only  one  to  win  the  radiant  shore ; — 
Only  one  to  join  the  sacred  chorus, — 

Only  one  to  burst  the  bond's  of  clay ; 
Soon  the  sentry's  trumpet  sounding  o'er  us. 

To  their  ranks  shall  summon  thee,  John  Gray. 

Peace  be  with  thee, — gentle  spirit  guard  thee 

Noble  type  of  heroes  now  no  more ! 
In  thine  age  may  gratitude  reward  thee, 

In  thy  need  may  bounty  bless  thy  store ; 
Care  of  Vioman — gentle  true  and  tender. 

Strength  of  manhood  be  thy  guide  and  stay ; 
Let  not  those  who  roll  in  idle  splendor. 

To  their  shame  forget  thee,  lone  John  Gray. 

Five  score  winters  on  thy  head  have  whitened — 

Five  score  summers  o'er  thy  brow  have  passed; 
All  the  sunshine  that  the  pathway  brightened. 

Clouds  of  want  and  care  o'ercast. 
Thus  the  last  of  those  who  won  our  glory. 

Lonely  traveler  of  the  weary  way. 
Poor,  unknown,  unnamed  in  song  and  story, 

In  his  western  cabin,  died  John  Gray. 


142  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

OHIO'S  WELCOME  TO  JOHN  QUINCY  ADAMS/** 

By  Gideon  Tabor  Stewart. 

Old   Massachusetts  Eagle  yet, 

Hail  from  his  aeried  rock ! 

That  mounting  form  hath  often  met 

In  years  agone  the  shock, 

When  fell  Detraction  stormed  and  Hate 

Tugged  fiercely  at  his  fame; 

Think  ye  he  recked  their  venom's  prate, 

Or  quaked  for  his  good  name? 

Go,  mark  him  well.     How  braved  he  then, 

Seek  from  himself  reply. 

Aye,  read  it  in  his  conquering  mien. 

And  still  all  glorious  eye. 

Look  now  on  him,  unscathed,  unshent, 

As  when  his  pinion  first  assayed 

Its  strength  ab'ove  his  native  glade; 

Or  when  in  primal  vigor  bent, 

It  beaconed  through  mid-firmament. 

Bird  of  gray  plume  say  whither  now. 

Goes  forth  thy  soaring  eye?  ' 

Turns  it  as  erst  to  Kingly  halls, 

For  mission  firm  and  high  ? 

No,  for  I  mark  thine  aged  ken 

Seeks  not  as  wont,  the  sun; 

But  o'er  the  broad  and  prairied  West 

Its  compass  deepens  on 

To  where  the  blue  Ohio's  sheen 


"^In  1843  John  Quincy  Adams  visited  Ohio  and  public  receptions 
were  accorded  him  at  Columbus,  Cincinnati,  Dayton,  Lebanon,  Newark 
and  other  cities.  He  arrived  at  Columbus  on  November  7th  of  that 
year  and  was  a  guest  at  the  Neil  House.  The  Ohio  State  Journal  of 
that  day  contained  the  foregoing  poem  composed  for  the  occasion  by 
Gideon  Tabor  Stewart,  who  was  a  law  student  in  the  office  of  Hon. 
Noah  H.  Swayne,  who  was  afterwards  a  Justice  of  the  United  States 
Supreme  Court. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  143 

Breaks  through  its  folding  wing. 

Broods  that  Hesperian  City  Queen, 

A  stately,  gorgeous  thing. 

Why  goes  that  glorious  pilgrim  forth 

At  this  time-weary  hour? 

What  new  orbed  sun  is  mounting  now 

To  spell  him  with  its  power? 

Ask  where  Ohio's  star  is  seen 

Whence  dun  Occasus  lies, 

Blazing  from  high  with  solar  sheen, 

A  crest  in  the  skies. 

Not  with  a  feebly  waxing  ray 

Dim  struggling  from  the  cope  of  day. 

For,  like  Minerva  sprung  from  Jove, 

Sun-born  and  armed  her  car  she  drove. 

Yes,  he  hath  sought  our  glorious  state 

To  gaze  before  his  eyes  wax  dim 

On  fairest  germs  of  highest  fate, 

That  from  this  peopled  empire  great. 

Their  seer-like  presage  lend  to  him. 

And  he  is  here,  what  greeting  his  ? 

Floating  of  banners?     Trumpets'  breath? 

Trail  of  bright  arms?     Nay  what  were  this. 

But  a  mock  pantomime  of  bliss? 

The  joy  of  free  hearts  claims  a  voice. 

And  hand  seeks  hand  when  hearts  rejoice. 

Such  welcome  speaks   Ohio's   choice. 

Hear  what  the  Western  Empress  saith : 

Relic  of  olden  worth,  thy  step 

Falls  pleasant  to  my  ears. 

With  soul  of  pride  I  gaze  on  thee. 

Scion  of  Pilgrim  years. 

That  form  unbowed  by  Time's  rude  hand. 

Still  stately  as  of  yore ; 

That  step  whose  vigor  ceases  not. 

Firm  as  in  days  before ; 

That  eye  whose  living  luster  quelled 

Oft-times  the  hardiest  foes. 


144  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Looks  forth  as  though  its  cahn  clear  light, 

No  shadow  ever  knows, 

Still,  still  the  same  in  youth  or  age. 

All  hail  from  thy  far  pilgrimage ! 

And  is  this  he  whose  clarion  voice 

Rang  out  long  years  ago, 

With  thoughts  that  burned  and  words  that  scathed 

His  own  and  country's  foes? 

In  years  when  my  now  peopled  realm 

No  human  sound  awoke, 

Save  when  from  some  grim  ambushed  rock 

The  deadly  war-whoop  broke ; 

Or  savage  shout  or  stealthy  tread, 

Stirred  in  the  sullen  wold? 

Yes,  he  is  one  of  those  whose  might 

Gave  to  our  age  its  mould. 

Whose  high  and  eloquent  command, 

Reared  empires  in  this  forest  land. 

And  is  this  he  who  thrice  went  forth 

Charged  with  a  nation's  weal, 

To  dictate  peace  in  kingly  halls 

And  hush  war's  horrid  peal? 

Yes,  this  is  he.  New  England's  sage. 

With  intellect  whose  scope 

Strikes  at  the  farthest  goal  of  mind 

Where  human  thought  can  cope, 

And  still  though  age  has  looked  on  him, 

Hi=  mind  has  never  yet  waxed  dim. 

Ai  ,1  is  this  he  whose  hand  hath  strung 

With  master  skill  the  lyre, 

And  poured  its  living  chords  along 

The  bard's  impassioned  fire? 

Who  sang  of  vanquished  Erin's  King^, 

A  lay  of  olden  time. 

When  Ocean's  Emerald  Isle  was  won 

By  Aldion's  art  and  crime, 

And  Treachery's  arm  laid  waste  her  land 

With  Rapine's  torch  and  Murder's  brand? 


Poems  on  Ohio.  M5 

But  numbers  sweeter  thence  aspire 
When  gentler  themes  commove. 
Or  in  bereaves  Affection's  hour 
ConsoHng  Mother  love; 
Or  waking  strains  for  Beauty's  bower, 
Of  merry  note  and  kindly  power. 
Still  through  the  mists  of  Time  his  eye 
Reveals  its  minstrel  fire; 
And  still  the  founts  that  inly  lie 
The  Old  Man's  heart  inspire. 
And  is  this  he  whose  name  once  filled 
The  land  with  its  acclaim, 
When  by  a  shouting  people  borne 
To  its  high  place  of  fame? 
When  he  stood  forth  our  Nation's  head, 
The  guardian  pilot  of  its  helm. 
By  millions  loved,  by  all  obeyed. 
The  honored  chieftain  of  our  realm? 
Yes,  Statesman,  Poet,  Chieftain,  Sage, 
Stand  bodied  forth  in  thee. 
High  Game,  from  her  empyreal  urn. 
Has  poured  her  sunshine  free 
Upon  that  head,  time  blanched  and  bare; 
Lo,  still  its  luster  lingers  there ! 
And  is  this  he  whom  late  we  saw 
Poised  in  our  Congress  Hall, 
Where  quaking  hearts  and  craven  tongues 
Plotted  the  Old  Man's  fall. 
And  thret'ning  voices  clamored  him ; 
All  lion-like  at  b'ay. 

Spurning  the  chains  base  hands  had  forged 
On  soul  and  lip  to  fray. 
While  despots  freely  struggled  there 
To  ban  and  bar  the  free  heart's  prayer  ? 
And  lo !  a  censure  scroll  appears. 
Accursed  each  minion  lip 
Which  stirred  not  with  the  breath  of  scorn, 
10 


146  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

When  that  foul  damning  scrip 

Breathed  out  on  air  its  ghost  of  Hate. 

Aye,  doubly  cursed  each  one, 

Whose  recreant  tongue  would  visit  not, 

Those  whom  his  ancient  fame  would  blot, 

With  the  heart's  malison. 

Yes,  Adams,  when  all  hostile  tongues 

Which  then  maligned  that  fame, 

Shall  blacken  in  Oblivion's  maw. 

Thy  ever-living  name 

Will  rise  o'er  their  forgotten  dust, 

A  Nation's  pride !  a  People's  trust. 

Behold  the  Man !  Yes,  he  has  come 

To  consecrate  that  art 

Which  here  would  raise  a  dwelling  place, 

Whence  Science  may  impart 

Her  starry  lore  plucked  from  the  skies. 

To  guide  man  through  their  mysteries, 

Magician,  lay  that  hand  of  thine 

Upon  yon  quarried  base. 

And  straight  a  pillared  dome  shall  rise, 

A  tower  of  beauty  in  my  skies, 

From  whose  far-beaming  face, 

The  firmamental  night  shall  flee ; 

And  mighty  space  shall  gorgeous  lie, 

In  its  unbosomed  majesty. 

Aye  bid  it  rise,  for  it  shall  stand 

A  monument  of  thee ; 

And  may  its  light  abroad  this  land. 

Be  shed  as  true  and  well. 

As  ever,  on  thy  country's  shrine 

Thy  mind's  rich  luster  fell." 


Poems  on  Ohio.  147 

JOHN  FILSON. 

By  William  H.  Venable. 

(Matthias  Denman,  Robert  Patterson  and  John  Filson  laid  out 
the  town  of  Losantiville,  now  the  city  of  Cincinnati,  in  1788.  Filson, 
schoolmaster  and  surveyor,  went  out  to  explore  the  woods  between  the 
Miamis,  but  never  returned). 

John  Filson  was  a  pedagogue  — 

A  pioneer  was  he ; 
I  know  not  what  his  nation  was 

Nor  what  his  pedigree. 

Tradition's  scanty  records  tell 

But  little  of  the  man, 
Save  that  he  to  the  frontier  came 

In  immigration's  van. 

Perhaps  with  phantoms  of  reform 

His  busy  fancy  teemed, 
Perhaps  of  new  Utopias 

Hesperian  he  dreamed. 

John  Filson  and  companions  bold 

A  frontier  village  planned, 
In  forest  wild,  on  sloping  hills, 

By  fair  Ohio's  strand. 

John  Filson  from  three  languages 

With  pendant  skill  did  frame 
The  novel  word  Losantiville^"^ 

To  be  the  new  town's  name. 

Said  Filson  :   "Comrades,  hear  my  words : 
"Ere  three  score  years  have  flown 

Our  town  will  be  a  city  vast." 

Loud  laughed  Bob  Patterson. 


"^Losantiville  is  a  combination  of  words  —  Greek,  Latin  and  French 
meaning  "The  town  opposite  the  mouth"  (of  the  Licking). 


148  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Still  John  exclaimed  with  prophet-tongue, 
"A  city  fair  and  proud, 
The  Queen  of  Cities  in  the  West !" 
Mat  Denman  laughed  aloud. 

Deep  in  the  wild  and  solemn  woods 
Unknown  to  white  man's  track, 

John  Filson  went,  one  autumn  day, 
But  nevermore  came  back. 

He  struggled  through  the  solitude 

The  inland  to  explore, 
And  with  romantic  pleasure  traced 

Miami's  winding  shore. 

Across  his  path  the  startled  deer 
Bounds  to  its  shelter  green  ; 

He  enters  every  lonely  vale 
And  cavernous  ravine. 

Too  soon  the  murky  twilight  comes 
The  boding  night  winds  moan ; 

Bewildered  wanders  Filson,  lost. 
Exhausted,  and  alone. 

By  lurking  foes  his  steps  are  dogged, 

A  yell  his  ear  appalls ! 
A  ghastly  corpse,  upon  the  ground, 

A  murdered  man,  he  falls. 

The  Indian   with   instinctive   hate. 

In  him  a  herald  saw 
Of  coming  hosts  of  pioneers, 

The  friends  of  light  and  law; 

In  him  beheld  the  champion 

Of  industries  and  arts. 
The  founder  of  encroaching  roads 

And  great  commercial  marts ; 


Poems  on  Ohio.  149 

The  spoiler  of  the  hunting  ground, 

The  plower  of  the  sod, 
The  builder  of  the  Christian  school 

And  of  the  house  of  God. 

And  so  the  vengeful  tomahawk 

John  Filson's  blood  did  spill,  — 
The  spirit  of  the  pedagogue 

No  tomahawk  could  kill. 

John  Filson  had  no  sepulcher, 

Except  the  wildwood  dim; 
The  mournful  voices  of  the  air 

Made  requiem  for  him. 

The  druid  trees  their  waving  arms 

Uplifted  o'er  his  head  ; 
The  moon  a  pallid  veil  of  light 

Upon  his  visage  spread. 

The  rain  and  sun  of  many  years 

Have  worn  his  bones  away. 
And  what  he  vaguely  prophesied 

We  realize  to-day. 

Losantiville,  the  prophet's  word, 

The  poet's  hope  fulfils,  — 
She  sits  a  stately  Queen  to-day 

Amid  her  royal  hills ! 

Then  come,  ye  pedagogues,  and  join 

To  sing  a  grateful  lay 
For  him,  the  martyr  pioneer, 

Who  led  for  you  the  way. 

And  may  my  simple  ballad  be 

A  monument  to  save 
His  name  from  blank  oblivion. 

Who  never  had  a  grave. 


150  Ohio  Arcli.  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

JOHNNY  APPLESEED.i°« 

a  ballad  of  the  old  northwest. 

By  William  H.  Venable. 

A  midnight  cry  appalls  the  gloom, 
The  puncheon  door  is  shaken : 
"Awake !  Arouse !  And  flee  the  doom ! 
Man,  woman,  child,  awaken ! 

"Your  sky  shall  glow  with  fiery  beams 
Before  the  morn  breaks  ruddy! 
The  scalpknife  in  the  moonlight  gleams, 
Athirst  for  vengeance  bloody  !" 

Alarmed  by  the  dreadful  word 

Some  warning  tongue  thus  utters, 

The  settler's  wife,  like  mother  bird, 
About  her  young  ones  flutters. 

Her  first  born,  rustling  from  a  soft 
Leaf-couch,  the  roof  close  under, 

Glides  down  the  ladder  from  the  loft, 
With  eyes  of  dreamy  wonder. 

The  pioneer  flings  open  wide 

The  cabin-door,  naught  fearing; 

The  grim  woods  drowse  on  every  side, 
Around  their  lonely  clearing. 


'°*John  Chapman,  or  "Appleseed  Johnny,"  was  an  eccentric  charac- 
ter who  came  to  Ohio  from  Massachusetts  about  the  beginning  of  the 
1800's.  He  lived  a  great  many  years  in  Richland  County.  His  pen- 
chant was  to  plant  appleseeds  and  his  nurseries  extended  all  over  North- 
ern Ohio  and  finally  into  Indiana.  He  was  a  Swedenborgian  in  religion 
and  as  he  went  on  his  rounds  proclaimed  his  faith.  Newell  Dwight 
Hillis   has  written   a   book  entitled,   "The   Quest   of  John    Chapman." 


Poems  on  Ohio.  151 

'Come  in !  Come  in !  Nor  like  an  owl  ^ 

Thus  hoot  your  doleful  humors; 
What  fiend  possesses  you  to  howl 

Such  crazy,  coward  rumors?" 

The  herald  strode  into  the  room; 

That  moment  through  the  ashes, 
The  back-log  struggled  into  bloom 

Of  gold  and  crimson  flashes. 

The  glimmer  lighted  up  a  face, 

And  o'er  a  figure  dartled, 
So  eerie,  of  so  solemn  grace, 

The  blufif  backwoodsman  startled. 

The  brow  was  gathered  to  a  frown. 

The  eyes  were  strangely  glowing, 
And,  like  a  snow-fall  drifting  down, 

The  stormy  beard  went  flowing. 

The  tattered  cloak  that  round  him  clung 

Had  warred  with  foulest  weather; 
Across  his  shoulders  broad  were  flung 

Brown  saddlebags  of  leather. 

One  pouch  with  hoarded  seed  was  packed, 

From  Penn  land  cider-presses; 
The  other  garnered  book  and  tract 

Within  its  creased  recesses. 

A  glance  disdainful  and  austere, 

Contemptuous  of  danger, 
Cast  he  upon  the  pioneer, 

Then  spake  the  uncouth  stranger : 

"Heed  what  the  Lord's  anointed  saith ; 
Hear  one  who  would  deliver 
Your  bodies  and  your  souls  from  death ; 
List  ye  to  John  the  Giver. 


152  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

'Thou  trustful  btoy,  in  spirit  wise, 
Beyond  thy  father's  measure, 
Because  of  thy  believing  eyes 

I  share  with  thee  my  treasure. 

"Of  precious  seed  this  handful  take; 
Take  next  this  Bible  Holy; 
In  good  soil  sow  both  gifts,  for  sake 
Of  Him,  the  meek  and  lowly. 

"Farewell !  I  go  !  —  the  forest  calls 
My  life  to  ceaseless  labors; 
Where /er  danger's  shadow  falls 
I  fly  to  save  my  neighbors. 

"I  save;  I  neither  curse  nor  slay; 
I  am  a  voice  that  crieth 
In  night  and  wilderness.    Away! 
Whoever  doubteth,  dieth !" 

The  prophet  vanished  in  the  night, 
Like  some  fleet  ghost  belated ; 

Then,  awe-struck,  fled  with  panic  fright 
The  household,  evil-fated. 

They  hurried  on  with  stumbling  feet, 

Foreboding  ambuscado ; 
Bewildered  hope  told  of  retreat 

In  frontier  palisado. 

But  ere  a  mile  of  tangled  maze 

Their  bleeding  hands  had  broken. 

Their  home-roof  set  the  dark  ablaze, 
Fulfilling  doom  forespoken. 

The  savage  war-whoop  rent  the  air ! 

A  howl  of  rage  infernal ! 
The  fugitives  were  in  Thy  care. 

Almighty  Power  eternal ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  153. 

Unscathed  by  tomahawk  or  knife, 

In  bosky  dingle  nested, 
The  hunted  pioneer,  with  wdfe 

And  babes  hid  unmolested. 

The  lad,  when  age  his  locks  of  gold 

Had  changed  to  silver  glory. 
Told  grandchildren,  as  I  have  told 

This  western  wildwood  story. 

Told  how  the  fertile  seeds  had  grown 

To  famous  trees,  and  thriven ; 
And  oft  the  Sacred  Book  was  shown, 

By  that  weird  Pilgrim  given. 

Remember  Johnny  Appleseed, 

All  ye  who  love  the  apple ; 
He  served  his  kind  by  Word  and  Deed 

In  God's  grand  greenwood  chapel. 


THE  POET  OF  CLOVERNOOK. 

(Read  at  the  celebration  of  Alice  Gary's  birthday,  to  the  children 
of  the  Public  Schools  of  Cincinnati,  April  26,  1880). 

By  William  H.  Venahle. 

A  poet  born,  not  made. 

By  Nature  taught,  she  knew. 
And,  knowing,  still  obeyed 

The  Beautiful,  the  True. 

Hers  was  the  seeing  eye. 

The  sympathetic  heart. 
The  subtle  art  whereby 

Lone  genius  summons  art. 


154  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

She  caught  the  primal  charm 
Of  every  rural  scene,  — 

Of  river,  cottage,  farm. 

Blue  sky,  and  woodland  green. 

Baptized  in  Sorrow's  stream, 

She  sang,  how  sweetly  well, 

Of  true  Love's  tender  dream. 
And  Death's  pale  asphodel. 

Her  pensive  muse  has  fled 

From  hill  and  meadow-brook; 

No  more  her  footsteps  tread 

Thy  paths  fair  Clovernook.^"'^ 

No  more  may  she  behold 

The  dew-crowned  Summer  morn 

Or  wings  of  sunrise  gold 

Fly  o'er  the  bending  corn. 

No  more  her  mournful  gaze 
Shall  seek  the  twilight  sky, 

When  parting  Autumn  days 
Flush  hectic  ere  they  die. 

Nor  note  of  joyous  bird. 

Nor  April's  fragrant  breath, 

Nor  tear,  nor  loving  word. 

May  break  the  spell  of  Death. 

Sleep  on !  and  take  thy  rest, 
In  Greenwood  by  the  sea ! 

Dear  Poet  of  the  West 

Thy  West  remembers  thee. 


^"Clovernook  was  the  home  of  the  Gary  sisters.  It  is  situated 
on  the  Cincinnati  and  Hamilton  pike,  eight  miles  from  Fountain 
Square,  Cincitmati.  This  poem  is  taken  from  Dr.  Venable's  "Sage 
•of  the  Oak." 


Poems  on  Ohio.  155 

THE  GARY  SISTERS. 

By  John  Greenleaf  Whittier  (1807- 1892). 

Years  since  (but  names  to  me  before) 
Two  sisters  sought  at  eve  my  door, 
Two  song  birds  wandering  from  their  nest, 
A  gray  old  farm  house  in  the  West. 

Timid  and  young,  the  elder  had 
Even  then  a  smile  too  sweetly  sad ; 
The  crown  of  pain  we  all  must  wear 
Too  early  pressed  her  mid-night  hair. 

Yet,  ere  the  summer  eve  grew  long. 
Her  modest  lips  were  sweet  with  song; 
A  memory  haunted  all  her  words 
Of  clover  fields  and  singing  birds. 


JOHNNY  APPLESEED. 

(The  following  extract  from  a  poem,  by  Mrs.  E.  S.  Dill,  of  Wy- 
oming, Hamilton  County,  Ohio,  written  for  the  Christian  Standard,  is 
a   pleasing  tribute  to   the   memory   of  Johnny   Appleseed). 

Grandpa  stooped  and  from  the  grass  at  our  feet, 

Picked  up  an  apple,  large,  juicy  and  sweet; 

Then  took  out  his  jack  knife  and,  cutting  a  slice. 

Said  as  we  ate  it,     "Isn't  it  nice 

To  have  such  applies  to  eat  and  enjoy? 

Well,  there  weren't  very  many  when  I  was  a  boy, 

For  the  country  was  new  —  e'en  food  was  scant ; 

We  had  hardly  enough  to  keep  us  from  want. 

And  this  good  man,  as  he  rode  around 

Oft  eating  and  sleeping  upon  the  ground, 

Always  carried  and  planted  appleseeds — 

Not  for  himself  but  for  others'  needs. 


156  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

The  appleseeds  grew  and  we  to-day 

Eat  of  the  fruit  planted  by  the  way. 

While  Johnny  —  bless  him  —  is  under  the  sod 

His  body  is  —  ah  !  he  is  with  God ; 

For,  child,  though  it  seemed  a  trifling  deed 

For  a  man  just  to  plant  an  appleseed, 

The  apple-tree's  shade,  the  flowers,  the  fruit, 

Have  proved  a  blessing  to  man  and  brute. 

Look  at  the  orchards  throughout  the  land. 

All  of  them  planted  by  old  Johnny's  hand. 

He  will  forever  remembered  be; 

I  would  wish  to  have  all  so  think  of  me." 


SUCCESS  TO  YOU,  TOM  CORWIN.i«« 

By  John  W.  Van  Cleve  (i8oi-i858).i°» 

Success  to  you,  Tom  Corwin ! 

Tom  Corwin  our  true  hearts  love  you ! 
Ohio  has  no  nobler  son, 

In  worth  there's  none  above  you ! 
And  she  will  soon  bestow 

On  you,  her  highest  honor, 
And  then  our  state  will  kindly  show 

Without  a  stain  upon  her. 


""Tom  Corwin  was  the  Whig  candidate  for  governor  in  1840.  This 
song  appeared  in  a  campaign  paper,  "The  Log  Cabin." 

""John  W.  Van  Cleve  was  said  to  be  the  first  male  child  born  in 
Dayton,  Ohio,  his  father  being  one  of  the  very  first  settlers  at  that 
place.  As  a  child  he  was  quite  precocious,  and  at  the  early  age  of  six- 
musician,  painter,  engraver,  civil  engineer,  botanist  and  geologist.  He 
was  versatile  in  his  accomplishments,  being  proficient  as  a  linguist, 
musician,  painter,  engraver,  civil  engineer  botanist  and  geologist.  He 
studied  law,  became  mayor  of  Dayton  and  took  the  initial  step  in  many 
of  the  public  interests  of  the  city,  in  the  way  of  civic  improvement.  In 
the  campaign  of  1840  he  furnished  much  of  the  campaign  material  for 
The    Log   Cabin. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  157 


Success  to  you,  Tom  Corwin: 

We've  seen  with  warm  emotion, 
Your  faithfulness  to  freedom's  cause. 

Your  boldness,  your  devotion. 
And  we'll  ne'er  forget 

That  you  our  rights  have  guarded; 
Our  grateful  hearts  shall  pay  the  debt, 

And  worth  shall  be  regarded. 


TIPPECANOE  AND  TYLER,  TOO."'' 

By  a.  C.  Ross,  Zanesville,  O.     (1812-1883)"^ 

Oh,  what  has  caused  this  great  commotion,  motion,  motion. 

All  the  country  through  ? 
It  is  the  ball  a-rolling  on 

For  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too. 

And  with  'em  we'll  beat  Little  Van ! 

Van,  Van  is  a  used  up  man ; 

And  with  'em  we'll  beat  Little  Van! 


""  Whig  campaign  song  of  1840. 

"'A.  C.  Ross  was  born  in  Zanesville,  Ohio.  At  the  age  of  17  he 
was  apprenticed  to  a  watch-maker,  and  later  went  to  New  York  City 
to  complete  his  preparation.  Upon  reading  of  Daguerre's  method  of 
taking  pictures,  he  from  the  description,  rigged  up  an  apparatus  which 
successfully  did  the  work.  He  did  the  same  thing  when  he  heard  of 
Morse's  telegraph  and  when  the  first  line  reached  Zanesville,  he  was 
chosen  the  operator.  He  experimented  with  illuminating  gas  and  be- 
came the  organizer  of  a  company  to  furnish  it  to  his  native  city.  He 
was  a  lover  of  music  and  became  quite  a  proficient  operator  on  several 
instruments,  besides  being  somewhat  of  a  vocalist.  In  the  campaign  of 
1840,  he  was  an  earnest  supporter  of  General  Harrison.  There  was  a 
"Tippecanoe  and  Tyler"  club  in  Zanesville.  Ross  was  a  prominent  mem- 
ber of  it  and  he  wrote  the  song  and  led  off  with  it  in  the  old  senate 
chamber  in  that  city.  It  at  once  became  immensely  popular  and  added 
much  to  the  enthusiasm  of  that  very  enthusiastic  campaign. 


158  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Like  the  working  of  mighty  waters,  waters,  waters, 

On  it  will  go, 
And  in  its  course  we'll  clear  the  way 

For  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 

See  the  Loco's  standard  tottering,  tottering,  tottering, 

Down  it  must  go. 
And  in  its  place  we'll  rear  the  flag 

Of  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 

The  Bay  State  boys  turned  out  in  thousands,  thousands,  thou- 
sands. 

Not  long  ago, 
And  at  Bunker  Hill  they  set  their  seals 

For  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 

Now  you  hear  the  Van  jocks  talking,  talking,  talking, 

Things  look  quite  blue. 
For  all  the  world  seemed  turning  around 

For  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 

Let  them  talk  about  hard  cider,  cider,  cider. 

And  log-cabins,  too. 
It  will  only  help  to  speed  the  ball 

For  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 

His  latch-spring  hangs  outside  the  door,  door,  door, 

And  is  never  pulled  in. 
For  it  is  always  the  custom  of 

Old  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 

He  always  had  his  table  set,  set,  set, 

For  all  honest  and  true. 
To  ask  you  in  to  take  a  bite 

With  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  159 

See  the  spoilsmen  and  leg-treasurers,  treasurers,  treasurers, 

All  in  a  stew, 
For  well  they  know  they  stand  no  chance 

With  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 

Little  Matty's  days  are  numbered,  numbered,  numbered. 

And  out  he  must  go, 
For  in  his  place  we'll  put  the  good 

Old  Tippecanoe  and  Tyler,  too,  etc. 


GOVERNOR  TOD.112 

air:    rosin  the  bow. 
By  John  Greiner.^^^     (1810-1871.) 

Soon  after  the  great  nomination 
Was  held  at  Columbus,  so  odd. 

There  was  quite  a  jollification 

At  the  homestead  of  Governor  Tod. 

His  mother,  good  pious  old  lady, 

Her  spectacles  threw  on  the  sod  — 
"Good  Gracious!  who'd  thought  that  our  Davy 
Would  ever  be  Governor  Tod." 


"■  Campaign  song  of  1844,  when  David  Tod  was  nominated  for 
Governor  by  the  Democrats. 

"^John  Greiner  was  born  in  Philadelphia  in  1810;  located  when  a 
young  man  at  Marietta,  where  he  worked  at  his  trade  as  a  painter,  mar- 
ried his  first  wife,  Laura  Bennett,  and  acquired  a  reputation  as  a  com- 
poser and  singer  of  songs  of  temperance,  of  which  he  remained  an  ardent 
advocate  during  his  life.  In  the  famous  political  struggle  of  1840  he 
was  in  Ohio  the  principal  song-writer  and  singer,  though  the  identity  of 
the  verses  of  which  he  was  author  is  not  altogether  clear.  Most  of  his 
compositions  were  impromptu,  written  on  his  hat  while  riding  to  a  meet- 
ing, or  while  the  orators  were  speaking.  The  words,  even  when  pre- 
served in  print,  afford  no  idea  of  the  power  of  the  songs  as  rendered 
by  him,  with  a  great  crowd  joining  in  a  simple  chorus  with  familiar  air. 
He  also  sang  effectively  in  the  campaigns  of  1842,  1844  and  1848.     He 


Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

His  sisters  each  other  remarking, 

Said  proudly,  "Those  fellows  may  plod, 

Who  used  to  come  up  here  a-sparking 
The  sisters  of  Governor  Tod." 

The  little  Tods  building  play  houses. 
As  they  in  their  petticoats  trod, 

Said,  "O,  mother,  now  shan't  we  wear  trousers, 
Since  papa  is  Governor  Tod :'" 

'Indeed  we  will  cut  no  more  capers 

Because  it  would  look  very  odd 
If  we  were  to  play  with  the  neighbors. 

And  we  all  Governers  Tod." 

'Be  quiet  each  little  young  sappy, 

I'll  tickle  your  backs  with  the  rod ; 

It's  only  myself  and  your  papa 

Are  Governors  —  ,  saucy  young  Tods. 

So,  now,  if  the  people  are  hardened. 
And  shouldn't  elect  him  how  odd; 

They  surely  will  never  get  pardoned 
By  Davy,  the  Governor  Tod. 


was  elected  State  Librarian  in  1844;  was  appointed  Indian  Agent  for 
the  territory  of  New  Mexico  in  1849  and  later  Secretary  of  that  ter- 
ritory; in  1861,  Lincoln  appointed  him  governor  of  the  territory  a  po- 
sition which  he  held  till  1865.  His  newspaper  work  was  as  a  writer  for 
the  Ohio  State  Journal,  editor  of  the  Columbus  Gazette,  editor  and 
owner  of  the  City  Times  and  later  The  Workman,  both  of  Zanesville. 
His  last  years  were  spent  in  Columbus.  He  died  May  1.^,  1871,  at  Toledo 
where  he  was  stricken  with  paralysis  while  addressing  the  Grand  Lodge 
of  Odd  Fellows. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  161 

ODE  ON  STANTON. 

[Written  by  Prof.  George  C.  S.  Southworth"*  and  read  at  the  cele- 
bration at  Kenyon  College,  26th  April,  1906,  in  memory  of  her  dis- 
tinguished son,  Edwin  McMasters  Stanton.] 

I. 
Statesman  and  Jurist,  entered  into  rest 
What  time  our  grand  Republic  loosed  her  helm 
After  the  toils  of  war !    Among  the  blest 
None  shines  more  radiant  in  the  heavenly  realm 
Than  he,  whose  name  our  laureate  honors  overwhelm. 
Stanton,  the  patient,  fiery,  masterful  and  bold. 
Persistent,  wielding  freedom's  sword  of  flame, 
Man  cast  in  the  Arthurian  knightly  mold 
Whose  blazon  vibrates  from  the  trump  of  fame 
Down  the  resounding  avenues  of  time  the  same 
As  some  fair  star  ascends  the  arch  of  night, 
While  round  the  pole  the  constellations  wheel. 
His  good  report  mounts  brighter  and  more  bright. 
Resplendent  in  the  galaxy  of  commonweal ; 
Beside  his  tomb  a  reverent  people  kneel. 

II. 

His  perfect  courage  in  that  hour  awoke 

When  craven  counsels  paralyzed  the  arm 

Of  the  supreme  executive.     He  spoke 

In  stern  dissent,  broke  the  deceitful  calm, 

Unmasked  disunion,  startled  our  millions  with  a  shrill  alarm. 

When  nerveless  leaders  flung  our  surging  lines 

Upon  the  southern  rock,  to  break  in  crimson  foam. 

His  eye  discerned  Ulysses  of  the  wise  designs, 


"*  Prof.  Geo.  C.  S.  Southworth  is  a  Massachusetts  man  who  re- 
ceived his  Bachelor's  Degree  from  Yale  in  1863  and  his  Master's  Degree 
In  1866.  He  also  received  the  degree  of  L.  L.  B.  from  the  Harvard  Law 
School  in  1865.  He  was  Professor  of  English  Literature  and  History  in 
Kenyon  College,  1881-85,  and  of  English  Language  and  Literature,  1885- 
88.  He  is  the  author  of  "An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of  English  Lit- 
erature." 
11 


162  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Our  later  much  enduring  hero,  whom  no  dome 
Of  Ithaca  awaited,  but  a  fane  among  a  grateful  nation's  shrines. 
Impetuous  of  speech  when  vivid  truth  unchained  the  living  light- 
ning of  his  tongue 
To  smite  the  mouths  of  counsellors  of  double  things, 
To  speed  a  righteous  cause  on  morning's  glittering  wings. 
To  bar  interminable  parley ;  when  the  sirens  sung 
Of  peace  with  shame,  a  union  bound  with  chains 
A  soft  surrender  after  sore  and  desperate  campaigns. 

III. 

Servant  of  God,  as  one  whose  saintly  blood  flowed  from  a  line- 
age of  blameless  Friends, 

He  urged  Emancipation  ere  the  godlike  Lincoln  breathed  the 
fatal  word, 

Which  disenthralled  a  race  and  cloudless  splendor  lends 

To  liberty,  —  by  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  conferred. 

Till  listening  angels  the  sweet  edict  heard. 

At  last  the  ermine,  white  and  unsullied  as  his  spotless  name, 

In  that  august  tribunal  where  the  general  voice 

Concordant  hailed  him  with  reverberant  acclaim ; 

Whence  envious  gods  caught  him  on  high,  the  darling  of  their 
choice. 

Rejoice  ye  patriots  ;  Seraphs  too  rejoice  ! 


TO  JOHN  RANKIN."^ 

Chambers  Baird. 

SONNET. 

Grand  pioneer  in  Freedom's  holy  cause, 

The  praise  and  honor  thine,  who  battled  long, 
And  didst  assail  the  citadel  of  wrong 

With  dauntless  faith,  and  courage  without  pause. 


"'  Rev.  John  Rankin  was  the  Presbyterian  minister  at  Ripley,  Brown 
County.  He  was  a  sterling  abolitionist  and  his  home  was  one  of  the 
stations  on  the  Underground  Railroad.  At  Ripley  some  of  the  scenes 
of  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  are  said  to  have  occurred. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  163 

Despite  the  throttling  power  of  evil  laws 

That  made  the  bondsman's  shackles  doubly  strong, 
And  would  make  freemen  slaves  in  common  throng, 

Whilst  cowards  gave  assent  and  meek  applause. 

Dear  Hero  of  our  age,  thy  work  is  o'er. 

Thou  canst  and  needst  no  more  thy  warfare  wage, 
In  peace  and  joy  thou  sawst  thy  latest  sun; 
Thou  hast  the  victor's  crown  forevermore, 
And  leav'st  to  us  for  blessed  heritage 

The  faith  well-kept,  the  good  fight  fought  —  and  won ! 


THE  SORROW  OF  THE  NATIONS. 

In  ]\Iemoriam,  Wm.  McKinley. 

By  John  P.  Smith, "^  Sharpsburg,  Maryland. 

There's  darkness  over  every  land  — 
Man  takes  his  fellow  by  the  hand. 
The  hearts  of  men  now  almost  fail ; 
For  all  the  earth  is  one  sad  wail. 

There's  sorrow  in  the  hut  and  hall, 
Our  land's  enshrouded  with  a  pall; 
The  bells  of  death  do  sadly  toll 
The  grief  that  overwhelms  the  soul. 


""John  Philemon  Smith,  son  of  John  Hamilton  Smith  and  Sarah 
Bardoon  Krctzer,  was  born  September  2,  1845.  His  grandfather  was 
John  Philemon  Smith  the  great,  great  nephew  of  Major  Charles  Alex- 
ander Warfield,  M.  D.,  the  Hero  of  the  Peggy  Stewart.  Mr.  Smith  has 
been  a  teacher.  He  is  a  corresponding  member  of  the  Maryland  His- 
torical Society  and  the  Ohio  State  Arch?eological  and  Historical  Society. 
Mr.  Smith  is  the  author  of  many  poems  among  which  might  be  men- 
tioned "Our  Maryland  State  is  Beautiful"  and  "The  Battle  of  Antietam." 


164  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Loved  Britain's  king  of  grace  and  worth, 
The  millions  high  and  low  in  birth, 
The  proudest  thrones  of  royal  power, 
Are  one  with  us  in  sorrow's  hour. 

'Tis  not  that  bloody  handed  war  — 
Nor  pestilence  has  swept  our  shore ; 
Our  nation's  head  has  fallen  low 
Oh,  God !  to  Thee  in  grief  we  bow. 

O   cruel   vile   accursed   blow  — 

That  laid  our  loved  McKinley  low; 

The  world's  great  soul  is  bowed  with  grief, 

O  Father  I  is  there  no  relief  ? 

Despite  the  earnest  prayers  and  tears, 
Despite  the  hopeful  signs  and  fears ; 
The  protest  o'er  our  hero's  fall, 
Death  cometh  to  him  after  all. 

The  kneeling  millions  wonder  why 
A  righteous  God  should  let  him  die ; 
Unceasing  prayers  for  him  ascend, 
Our  President,  the  nation's  friend. 

Thy  fondest  hopes  were  born  to  fade, 
Thy  beauty  in  the  dust  was  laid; 
Sleep,  sainted  spirit,  sweetly  sleep, 
While  countless  thousands  for  thee  weep. 

O'er  brightest  scenes  dark  clouds  descend. 
Each  glorious  day  has  its  swift  end ; 
The  flame  soars  high  but  for  to  fall. 
Night  cometh  to  each  one  and  all. 

The  bloom  of  beauty  we  possess  — 
Though  love  and  life  make  tearfulness, 
The  shadow  of  the  funeral  pall ; 
Is  death  which  cometh  after  all. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  165 


We  love  to  think  though  lost  to  view, 
Of  one  so  noble,  grand  and  true, 
Our  President  to  us  so  dear, 
Beloved  by  nations  far  and  near. 

We  know  that  thou  hast  entered  rest, 
With  all  the  blood-washed  thou  art  blest 
In  realms  of  Amaranthine  bowers, 
The  gain  is  thine,  the  loss  is  ours. 

"God's  will  be  done,"  thy  sainted  breath 
Proclaimed  it  in  the  hour  of  death, 
Bright  seraph  angels  beckon  me, 
"Nearer  my  Father,  God,  to  Thee." 

Thus  with  thy  last  expiring  breath, 
Thy  spirit  triumphed  over  death. 
The  victory  gained,  the  crown  is  won, 
Eternal  life  through  God's  dear  Son. 

For  her  who  shared  his  hopes  and  fears  - 
His  solace  in  declining  years. 
Oh,  God,  be  Thou  her  strength  and  stay 
Through  this  her  melancholy  day. 

Conduct  her  safe,  conduct  her  far 
Through  every  ill  and  hurtful  snare. 
And  when  the  storms  of  sorrow  lower 
Be  near  her  with  thy  gracious  power. 

Mysterious  is  our  Father's  way 
Though  we  journey  day  by  day. 
Behind  the  clouds  his  face  divine, 
Like  noon-day  suns  effulgent  shine. 

Be  calm,  my  heart,  and  question  not 
The  seeming  strangeness  of  the  lot. 
Whate'er  our  Father,  God,  ordains, 
We  know  the  Lord  Jehovah  reigns. 


166  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Father,  protect  our  native  land 
From  anarchy's  accursed  hand; 
Defend  the  Hves  of  rulers  dear 
From  day  to  day  from  year  to  year. 

Blot  out  foul  anarchistic  stain, 
Let  not  a  trace  of  it  remain, 
For  traitors  on  this  nation's  sod, 
Are  traitors  to  Almighty  God. 


A  SONG  FOR  OHIO. 

By  Sullivan  D.  Harris.    (1812-)^^^ 

When  the  God  of  our  fathers  looked  over  this  land, 
To  choose  out  a  country  most  worthy  possessing, 
Where  the  rivers  and  plains  ever  beauteous  and  grand, 

Might  so  constantly  smile  on  the  light  of  his  blessing. 
From  Erie's  broad  waves  to  the  river  below. 
The  Scioto's  sparkle  and  the  Muskingum's  flow, 
And  the  graceful  Miamis  together  rejoice, 
And  bless  the  All-Father  with  silver-toned  voice. 

'Twas  here  the  good  angel  encamped  with  his  host 

To  cheer  the  brave  woodman,  'mid  his  toil  and  privation, 
Whose  sturdy  ax  fell,  never  grudging  the  cost, 

To  rear  up  such  a  state,  as  the  gem  of  the  nation ; 
Then  join  all  your  voices  in  grateful  acclaim, 
'Tis  the  triumph  of  toil  in  Jehovah's  great  name. 
Our  sons  and  our  daughters  together  may  sing. 
The  Might  is  the  Right  and  the  Farmer  is  King. 


"'  Sullivan  D.  Harris  was  born  in  Middlebury,  Vermont.  While  yet 
a  mere  lad  he  began  to  contribute  verses  for  the  village  newspapers.  He 
came  to  Ohio  in  1836,  where  he  was  by  turns  farmer,  painter  and  teacher. 
His  home  was  in  Trumbull  and  Ashtabula  counties.  He  became  the 
proprietor  of  the  Ohio  Cultivator  in  1855.  The  more  practical  concerns 
of  life  prevented  his  devotion  to  the  Muse,  whom  his  youthful  fancy 
worshipped. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  167 

And  here  we  are  gathered  from  farm  and  from  town, 
To  behold  and  rejoice  in  each  other's  progression, 
So  let  the  world  wag  in  its  up  and  its  down. 

We  are  prond  of  a  hand  in  this  noble  profession, 

Where  the  sweat  of  our  face  shall  earn  us  our  bread, 
And  the  angels  of  peace  shall  pillow  our  head. 
We  are  joined  in  a  band  no  tyrant  can  sever  — 
Hurrah  for  the  Farmer,  forever  and  ever ! 


OHIO'S  FIRST  PRINTED  POEM. 

[This  poem  appeared  in  the  first  issue  of  the  first  newspaper"'  of 
the  Northwest,  November  9,  1793.] 

Why  should  our  wishes  miss  their  aim? 
Why  does  our  love  of  wealth  and  fame, 

With  jarring  pursuits  clash? 
My  friends,  'tis  strange,  self  love  that  rules 
The  bulk  of  men,  should  make  them  fools, 

Their  pockets  drain  of  cash. 

The  mystic  cause  I  did  explore. 
My  neighbor's  failings  counted  o'er, 

And  blamed  their  want  of  thought. 
My  occupation  I  despised. 
New  schemes  and  calling  straight  devised, 

And  found  them  all  but  naught. 

To  Cincinnati  shaped  my  course, 
With  stick  in  hand,  without  a  horse, 

'Twas  galling  to  my  mind ! 
Till  on  the  banks  of  Ohio's  flood 
I  near  a  chinky  cabin  stood, 

For  selling  grog  designed. 


"'This  newspaper  was  The  Ceiitiiicl  pubHshed  by  William  Maxwell, 
who  died  and  is  Ijnried  in  Greene  Countv. 


168  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications, 

Behind  his  bar  the  cheerful  host, 
Had  sat  him  down  his  books  to  post, 

First  took  a  morning  dram ; 
Thrice  the  blotted  leaf  he  turned. 
The  want  of  money  still  he  mourned, 

The  license  fees  did  damn. 


The  profits  of  a  barrel  told, 

If  paid  for,  but  so  soon  as  sold. 

Would  count  him  full  ten  pounds ; 
But  swallowed  by  five  hundred  throats. 
One  half  not  worth  so  many  groats 

'Twould  scarcely  be  ten  crowns. 

Happy  the  grog  man  near  the  Fort 
When  soldiers  with  their  money  sport. 

And  give  it  for  a  song. 
But  oh,  the  cruel,  late  campaign 
Has  called  away  this  jolly  train, 

I  hope  they'll  not  stay  long. 

Thus  sagely  spoke  the  man  of  grog, 
My  rapturous  soul  was  quite  agog. 

While  he  tipped  off  a  glass ; 
"Sure,  then,"  I  cried,  "could  I  but  know 
When  times  again  would  turn  out  so. 

Light  should  my  hours  pass." 

Pray  Henry  K,^^*'  pray  tell  me  when 
Those  jovial  souls  will  come  again. 

With  three  months'  pay  or  two; 
Swift  as  the  streams  of  Ohio  glide 
I'd  roll  a  keg  to  the  Fort's^^'^  side 

And  keep  a  tavern,  too. 


""Henry  Knox,  Secretary  of  War. 
'^  Ft.  Washington. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  169 

THE  TRIUMPH  OF  LIBERTY. 
1788-1888. 

[Written   for  the   Marietta   Centennial   Celebration.] 

By  Rodney  K.  Shaw."^     (1829-) 

We  meet  this  splendid  April  morn 
Where  equal  Liberty  was  born. 
We  meet  to  celebrate  the  birth 
Of  her  whose  hand  redeems  the  earth. 
This  day  in  joy  and  pride  we  meet 
To  worship  at  triumphal  feet. 
Her  age  this  day  —  a  hundred  years, 
As  measured  by  the  rolling  spheres, 
As  measured  by  her  works  sublime 
She  grandly  runs  abreast  of  time. 

Here  Freedom  built  her  perfect  arch 
Through  which  her  faithful  legions  march; 
Here  wisely  formed  her  model  state, 
Here  reared  her  inner  temple  gate. 
And  on  its  stainless  pillars  white 
Her  deft  and   matchless   fingers   write 


^"^  Rodney  K.  Shaw  was  born  in  Denmark,  Lewis  County,  New 
York,  December  13th,  1829.  As  a  boy  he  worked  on  the  farm  and  not 
until  he  reached  his  majority  did  he  have  opportunity  for  an  academic 
training,  which  he  received  in  the  Union  and  Lowville  academies  of  his 
native  state.  He  spent  some  time  as  a  teacher  in  New  York,  Virginia 
and  Mississippi.  While  following  this  profession  he  studied  law  and 
was  admitted  to  practice  in  the  New  York  Courts  in  1855.  In  1859  he 
came  to  Parkersburg,  Virginia,  and  the  following  year  entered  a  law 
office  at  Marietta,  Ohio.  At  the  beginning  of  the  war  he  organized  a 
company  of  volunteers,  which  became  a  part  of  the  Sixty-Third  Ohio 
Regiment,  one  of  the  best  regiments  in  the  Civil  War.  On  account  of 
disability  he  left  the  service  and  resumed  his  profession.  Mr.  Shaw  has 
fine  literary  taste  and  his  poetry  shows  keen  ability.  He  is  a  thorough 
student  of  economics  and  of  current  events. 


170  Ohio  ArcJi.  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

"The  human  race  are  equal  —  Free ; 
Mankind  are  born  to  liberty." 
O,  matchless  boon  of  human  years, 
We  celebrate  thy  pioneers. 

We  meet  within  that  temple  gate 
Where  human  slavery  met  its  fate. 
Here  conscience  trembles  not  in  fear, 
And  woman  walks  the  earth  a  peer. 
Each  plants  his  fig  tree  and  his  vine, 
And  says,  "Apart  of  earth  is  mine ; 
I  own  the  land  that's  great  —  that's  free ; 
I  worship  God  in  liberty." 

To  lands  untrodden  by  the  slave 

Earth's  heroes  came,  the  strong,  the  brave. 

Who  freedom's  race  had  nobly  run 

When  marching  with  a  Washington. 

They  bought  these  hills  at  costly  price  — 

They  tendered  Hfe  a  sacrifice; 

Their  manhood's  strength,  their  manhood's  years 

They  spent  in  war,  in  blood,  in  tears ; 

They  grandly  grew  to  freedom's  height 

In  freedom's  struggle  for  the  riglit. 

Their  works  stand  out  in  bold  relief. 

All  others  lean  upon  their  sheaf. 

The  Mayflower  on  Atlantic's  sea 
Brought  base  alloy  with  liberty ; 
The  Mayflower  on  Ohio's  breast 
Brought  Freedom  pure  unto  the  West. 
Glorious  day  —  glorious  birth  — 
While  human  hands  shall  till  the  earth. 

The  freedom  flag  that  they  unfurled 
Shall  float  in  triumph  o'er  the  world. 
Our  freedom  made  New  England  free, 
Ted  Middle  States  to  libertv. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  171 

More  glorious  than  all  the  rest 
Made  sunny  south  free  as  the  West. 
That  banner  crosses  o'er  the  waves, 
And  lo !  it  breaks  the  chains  of  slaves ; 
'Tis  planted  on  the  old  world's  turf, 
And  Russia  fears  her  Cossack  serf ; 
It  floats  above  the  soil  of  Spain 
And  rends  her  bondsmen's  links  in  twain. 

And  marching  on  in  triumph  still 

It  carries  freedom  to  Brazil. 

For  human  slavery  cannot  be 

Where  floats  the  flag  of  liberty. 

It  bears  aloft  upon  its  folds 

The  thought  that  earth's  redemption  holds, 

"The  human  race  are  equal  —  Free  ; 

Mankind  are  born  to  liberty." 

The  little  spring  that  sparkled  here 
In  billows  washes  o'er  the  sphere. 
All  men  shall  celebrate  the  day 
When  freedom  here  her  altar  lay 
As  we  to-day  here  celebrate 
Her  pioneers  her  model  State. 

Wise  men,  they  left  the  cultured  East. 

Fought  savage  men  and  savage  beast 

Within  the  western  wilderness, 

And  made  it  bloom  with  loveliness. 

Grand  was  their  thought  their  purpose  led. 

Magnificent  its  growth  and  spread ; 

For  human  records  give  no  age 

That  ears  a  brighter,  purer  page. 

To  all  the  people  gave  the  helm 

And  launched  their  state  "The  Freedom  Realm", 

Its  keel  and  ribs  are  grand  —  are  great  — 

"xA.ll  the  people  are  the  state. 


172  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Puhlications. 

And  of  and  by  them,  government, 
And  for  them  all  its  blessings  sent." 
And  say  what  shall  its  limits  be 
And  what  our  Freedom's  boundary? 
The  narrow  breadth  of  fifty  States 
Already  in  or  at  the  gates  ? 
Nay  more,  far  more  than  all  of  these 
Our  country's  limit  shall  be  seas ; 
Columbia  on  every  side 
Thou  shalt  be  washed  by  ocean's  tide. 
Nor  then  is  Freedom's  measure  full, 
In  other  lands  shall  people  rule; 
And  when  all  men  in  every  land, 
On  human  rights  in  freedom  stand 
Shall  freedom  in  her  grandest  years 
Plant  laurels  o'er  her  pioneers. 


LOG  CABIN  SONG.^22 

Tune — Highland  Laddie. 

By  Otway  Curry.     (1804-1855.)^'^ 

Oh,  where,  tell  me  where,  was  your  Buckeye  Cabin  made? 
Oh,  where,  tell  me  where,  was  your  Buckeye  Cabin  made? 
'Twas  built  among  the  merry  boys  who  wield  the  plow  and  spade, 
Where  the  log-cabins  stand  in  the  bonny  Buckeye  shade. 
Cho. :     'Twas  built,  etc. 


'"-  Whig  campaign  song  of  1840. 

^^'  Otway  Curry  was  born  on  the  present  site  of  Greenfield,  Ohio. 
His  father  had  been  a  Revolutionary  soldier  and  his  mother  was  a  wo- 
man of  literary  inclinations.  In  1823  he  went  to  Lebanon,  Ohio,  where  he 
learned  the  carpenter's  trade,  at  which  he  labored  for  some  years.  While 
thus  engaged  he  began  writing  his  lyrics  for  the  press.  For  ten  years 
he  was  a  farmer  in  Union  County,  though  he  still  continued  his  literary 
work.  He  served  three  terms  in  the  Ohio  Legislature  and  was  a  member 
of  the   Second   Ohio   Constitutional   Convention.     With   William   D.   Gal- 


Poems  on  Ohio.  173 

Oh,  what,  tell  me  what,  is  to  be  your  cabin's  fate? 
Oh,  what,  tell  me  what,  is  to  be  your  cabin's  fate? 
We'll  wheel  it  to  the  Capitol  and  place  it  there  elate, 
As  a  token  and  a  sign  of  the  bonnie  Buckeye  State. 
Cho. :     We'll  wheel  it,  etc. 

Oh,  why,  tell  me  why,  does  your  Buckeye  Cabin  go? 
Oh,  why,  tell  me  why,  does  your  Buckeye  Cabin  go? 
It  goes  against  the  spoilsmen  —  for  well  the  builders  know 
It  was  Harrison  that  fought  for  the  cabins  long  ago. 
Cho. :     It  goes  against,  etc. 

Oh,  who  fell  before  him  in  battle  —  tell  me  who? 
Oh,  who  fell  before  him  in  battle  —  tell  me  who? 
He  drove  the  savage  legions  and  British  army,  too, 
At  the  Rapids  and  the  Thames  and  old  Tippecanoe. 
Cho. :     He  drove,  etc. 

By  whom,  tell  me  whom,  will  the  battle  next  be  won? 
By  whom,  tell  me  whom,  will  the  battle  next  be  won? 
The  spoilsmen  and  leg  treasurers  will  soon  begin  to  run ! 
And  the  log-cabin  candidate  will  march  to  Washington ! 
Cho. :     The  spoilsmen,  etc. 

Oh,  what,  tell  me  what,  then  will  httle  Martin  do? 
Oh,  what,  tell  me  what,  then  will  little  Martin  do? 
He'll  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  Price  and  Swartout.  too. 
While  the  log-cabins  ring  again  with  old  Tippecanoe ! 
Cho. :     He'll  follow,  etc. 


lagher  for  six  months  he  was  associated  editor  of  the  Hesperian,  a 
monthly  magazine  published  in  Columbus.  Removing  to  Xenia,  Ohio, 
he  became  the  proprietor  of  the  Greene  County  Torch  Light  for  a  period 
of  two  years,  after  which  he  went  to  Marysville,  and  began  the  practice 
of  law.     He  died  in  that  city  February  17,  1855. 


174  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

ANNIVERSARY  ODE.^^* 

By  D.  Bethune  Duffield.     (1821-?)^'* 

Come  ye,  whose  feet  old  Erie  kindly  laves, 
And  join  to  pour  an  anthem  o'er  her  waves, 
This  day  to  her  broad  breast  she  calls  the  free, 
And  bids  them  welcome  to  her  jubilee. 

Thou  stately  Queen  of  all  the  lordly  lakes 
Down  where  Niagara's  thundering  chorus  breaks. 
Snatch  forth  a  strain  of  nature's  lofty  praise 
To'  swell  the  chant  thy  sister  cities  raise. 
Come  thou,  old  Erie,  worthy  of  thy  name. 
Bearing  the  trophy  of  the  hero's  fame, — 
The  fragments  of  that  torn  and  shattered  wreck 
With  battle's  footprints  still  upon  the  deck ; 
And  thou,  too,  ancient  "City  of  the  Straits," 
Bring  forth  the  guns  that  once  assailed  thy  gates. 
And  thou,  fair  Forest  City,  gliding  from  thy  grove 
Come  like  the  swan  and  o'er  the  waters  move. 
And  coy  Sandusky,  nestled  in  thy  bay. 
Where  lovers  dream  the  evening  hours  away. 
Come  with  Monroe  from  river  Rasin's  shore 
And  proud  Toledo,  valiant  as  of  yore ; 


*^*Ode  read  at  the  forty-fifth  anniversar}'  of  the  Battle  of  Lake 
Erie,  at  Put-in-Bay,  September  10,  1858. 

^■°  D.  Bethune  Dufifield,  son  of  Rev.  George  Duffield  and  Isabella 
Graham  Duffield,  was  born  in  Carlisle,  Cumberland  county,  Pennsylvania, 
where  he  resided  until  their  removal  to  Philadelphia.  He  graduated  at 
the  Yale  Law  School  in  1842  and  was  admitted  to  the  practice  of  his 
profession  at  Detroit,  Michigan,  the  following  year.  He  took  an  active 
part  in  the  establishment  of  the  free  common  school  system  in  Detroit 
and  served  as  Presic':  t  of  the  Board  of  Education  for  some  time.  Be- 
sides his  efforts  along  educational  and  literary  lines,  he  excelled  as  a 
lecturer.  His  poems  were  the  spontaneous  productions,  performed  in  the 
midst  of  an  active  professional  life.  Among  his  poems  might  be  men- 
tioned "The  Maid  of  Chamouni,"  "The  Sounding  Sea,"  and  "A  Sabbath 
Sunset  Prayer." 


Poems  on  Ohio.  175 

Come,  grave  Maumee,  for  years  full-widely  known, 
By  heroes,  and  a  fever  all  thine  own. 

Let  all  our  cities  in  one  common  hymn 
Send  Perry's  praise  around  old  Erie's  brim, 
Perry  the  young,  Perry  the  bold  and  brave, 
The  Christian  hero  of  our  common  wave ; 
Let  all  the  bugles  their  best  music  pour, 
Let  all  the  cannon  in  glad  triumph  road, 
And  all  their  echoes,  leaping  from  each  shore. 

Still  chime  his  name 

And  lofty  fame 
Forever,  and  forevermore. 

New  generations  here  this  day  we  see 
With  brilliant  pomjp  and  gay  festivity. 
With  lute  and  tabret  and  the  vocal  chime. 
That  rings  far  down  the  avenues  of  time. 
With  brazen  trump  and  clanging  drum  and  bell, 
In  soul  refreshing  strains  again  to  tell 

How  well. 

How  bravely  well. 

Great  Perry  stood 

When  shot  and  shell 

Around  him  fell, 
And  vexed  and  seethed  old  Erie's  peaceful  flood. 
And  dyed  her  emerald  waves  with  valor's  precious  blood. 

Then  let  us  send  the  towering  shaft  on  high, 

To  court  new  blessings  from  each  morning  sky ; 

To  teach  our  rising  youth  on  land  and  flood. 

That  liberty  is  worthy  of  their  blood ; 

And  on  its  tablet  write  in  boldest  line, 

Those  words  that  round  this  lake  should  ever  shine  — 

That  modest  message  of  our  hero's  pen  — 

Long  may  it  live  among  our  naval  men, 

Long  gleam  from  all  our  armed  forts  and  towers  — 

"We've  met  the  enemv,  and  thev  are  ours!" 


176  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

OHIO  CENTENNIAL  ODE. 

Bv  Colonel  Coates  Kinney.     (1826-1904.)^"*' 

[Delivered  in  the  Coloseum,  Columbus,  Ohio,  on  the  Opening  Day, 
September  4,  1888,  of  the  State  Celebration  of  the  Arrival  of  the  Cen- 
tennial Year.] 

In  what  historic  thousand  years  of  man 

Has  there  been  builded  such  a  State  as  this? 
Yet,  since  the  clamor  of  the  axes  ran 

Along  the  great  woods,  with  the  groan  and  hiss 
And  crash  of  trees,  to  hew  thy  groundsils  here. 

Ohio!  but  a  century  has  gone, 
And  thy  republic's  building  stands  the  peer 

Of  any  that  the  sun  and  stars  shine  on. 

Not  on  a  fallen  empire's  rubbish  heap. 

Not  on  old  quicksands  wet  with  blood  of  wrong, 
Do  the  foundations  of  thy  structure  sleep, 

But  on  a  ground  of  nature,  new  and  strong. 


'"""  Coates  Kinney,  one  of  the  most  delightful  of  Ohio  poets  of  whom 
William  Dean  Howells  said  "is  a  truly  great  poet"  and  of  whom  the  lit- 
erary critics  have  expressed  many  beautiful  things,  was  born  in  Yates 
County,  New  York.  His  ancestry  dates  back  to  the  Mayflower.  When 
a  lad  of  seventeen  he  came  to  Warren  County,  Ohio,  where  he  attended 
the  local  schools,  when  he  was  not  otherwise  engaged  in  manual  labor. 
He  became  a  school  teacher,  studied  law  and  wrote  for  the  press.  His 
first  poem  to  attract  attention  was  a  lyric,  "Rain  on  the  Roof",  which 
appeared  in  1849.  He  now  wrote  considerably  for  some  of  the  best  pub- 
lications of  the  time,  attended  college  at  Antioch  under  Horace  Mann, 
was  admitted  to  the  bar  and  began  to  practice  law. 

The  Civil  War  found  him  ready  to  serve  his  country  and  for  four 
and  a  half  years  he  filled  the  post  of  Major  and  Paymaster  of  the  Army. 
After  the  war  he  took  an  active  part  in  politics,  as  a  writer,  and  even 
served  a  term  in  the  Ohio  Senate.  His  published  works  are :  Keenka 
and  other  poems,  (1855)  ;  Lyrics  of  the  Ideal  and  Real,  (1887)  ;  Mists  of 
Fire,  a  Trilogy;  and  some  Eclogs,  (1899).  He  is  also  the  author  of  some 
excellent  unpublished  verses  and  essays.  He  died  on  January  24,  1004, 
and  lies  buried  at  Waynesville,  Warren  County,  Ohio. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  177 

Men  that  had  faced  the  Old  World  seven  years 

In  battle,  on  the  Old  World  turned  their  backs 
And,  quitting  Old  World  thoughts  and  hopes  and  fears, 

With  only  rifle,  powder-horn  and  axe 
For  tools  of  civilization,  won  their  way 

Into  the  wilderness,  against  wild  man  and  beast. 
And  laid  the  wood-glooms  open  to  the  day. 

And  from  the  sway  of  savagery  released 
The  land  to  nobler  uses  of  a  higher  race ; 

Where  Labor,  Knowledge,  Freedom,  Peace  and  Law 
Have  wrought  all  miracles  of  dream  in  place 

And  time  —  ay,  more  than  ever  dream  foresaw. 

A  hundred  years  of  Labo-r !  Labor  free ! 

Our  river  ran  between  it  and  the  curse, 
And  freemen  proved  how  toil  can  glory  be. 

The  heroes  that  Ohio  took  to  nurse 

(As  the  she-wolf  the  founders  of  old  Rome) 
Their  deeds  of  fame  let  history  rehearse 

And  oratory  celebrate ;  but  see 
This  paradise  their  hands  have  made  our  home ! 

Nod,  plumes  of  wheat,  wave,  vanderoles  of  corn. 

Toss,  orchard-oriflammes,  swing,  wreath  of  vine. 

Shout,  happy  farms,  with  voice  of  sheep  and  kine, 
For  the  old  victories  conquered  here  on  these 

The  fields  of  Labor  when,  ere  we  were  born. 
The  fathers  fought  the  armies  of  the  trees. 

And,  chopping  out  the  night,  chopt  in  the  morn ! 
A  hundred  years  of  Knowledge !    We  have  mixt 

More  brains  with  Labor  in  the  century 
Than  man  had  done  since  the  decree  was  fixt 

That  Labor  was  his  doom  and  dignity. 
All  honor  to  those  far-foreworking  men 

Who,  as  they  stooped  their  sickles  in  to  fling, 

Or  took  the  wheat  upon  the  cradle's  swing, 
Thought  of  the  boy,  the  little  citizen 


12 


178  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

There  gathering  sheaves,  and  planned  the  school  for  him. 

Which  would  wind  up  the  clock-work  of  his  mind 
To  cunning  moves  of  wheels  and  blades  that  skim 

Across  the  fields  and  reap  and  rake  and  bind ! 
They  planned  the  schools  —  the  woods  were  full  of  schools ! 

Our  learning  has  not  soared  but  it  has  spread : 
Ohio's  intellects  are  sharpened  tools 

To  deal  with  daily  fact  and  daily  bread. 
The  starry  peaks  of  knowledge  in  thin  air 

Her  culture  has  not  climbed,  but  on  the  plain, 
In  whatsoever  is  to  do  or  dare 

With  mind  or  matter,  there  behold  her  reign. 
The  axemen  who  chopt  out  the  clearing  here 

Where  stands  the  Capital,  could  they  today 

Arise  and  see  our  hundred  years'  display  — 
Steam-wagons  in  their  thundering  career  — 
Wires  that  a  friend's  voice  waft  across  a  State 

And  wires  that  wink  a  thought  across  the  sea, 
And  wires  wherein  imprisoned  lightnings  wait 

To  leap  forth  at  the  turning  of  a  key  — 
Could  they  these  shows  of  mind  and  matter  note, 

Machines  that  almost  conscious  souls  confess, 

Seeming  to  will  and  think  —  the  printing  press. 
Not  quite  intelligent  enough  to  vote  — 
Could  they  arise  these  marvels  to  behold. 

What  would  to  them  the  vast  Republic  seem  — 
The  State  historified  in  volumes  old, 

Or  prophesied  in  Grecian  Plato's  dream  ? 

A  hundred  years  of  Freedom !    Freedom  such 

No  other  people  on  the  earth  had  known 

Till  our  America  the  world  had  shown 
What  Freedom  meant.     No  slave  might  touch 
Our  earth,  no  master's  lash  outrage  our  heaven ; 

The  Declaration  of  the  Great  July, 
Fired  by  our  Ordinance  of  Eighty-seven 

Flamed  from  the  River  to  the  northern  sky ; — 


Poeyns  on  Ohio.  179 

Ay,  that  flame  rose  against  the  Arctic  stars, 

And  shone  a  new  aurore  across  the  land, 
A  Body  scored  with  stripes  of  whip  and  scars 

Of  branding-iron  seemed  to  understand  — 
Soulless  though  reckoned  by  our  Union's  pact  — 

That  It  was  man,  for  whom  that  heavenly  sign 
Lit  up  the  North  —  and  while  the  blood  hounds  tracked 

Him  footsore  through  Kentucky,  stars  benign 
Befriended  him  and  brought  him  to  our  shore, 

A  stranger,  frightened,  hungry,  travel-worn ; 
And  we  laid  hands  on  him  and  gave  him  o'er 

Again  to  bondage  as  in  fealty  sworn. 
So  rich  in  Freedom  we  had  none  to  give ! 

While  we  might  quaff  we  could  not  pass  the  cup ; 
No  slave  should  touch  foot  to  our  soil  and  live 

Upon  it  slave  —  he  must  be  given  up  ! 
When  that  first  man  was  wrested  from  our  State, 

Then  Slavery  had  crossed  the  Rubicon  ; 
Then  Freedom  was  the  whole  Republic's  fate ; 

Then  John  Brown's  soul  began  its  marching  on ; 
Then  the  Ohio  Idea  had  to  go 

Where'er  the  banner  of  the  Union  flew. 
From  the  northmost  limits  in  Alaskan  snow 

To  the  southmost  in  the  Mexic  waters  blue. 
A  hundred  years  of  Peace !    Yes,  less  the  four 

(Our  little  Indian  squabbles  were  not  war), 
The  four  when  we,  in  battle's  shock  and  roar. 

Declared  that  Freedom  was  worth  dying  for. 
Ohio  gave  to  that  great  fight  for  Man 
Her  Grant,  her  Sherman,  and  her  Sheridan, 

And  her  victorious  hundred  thousands  more. 
Victorious,  yes,  though  legions  of  them  sleep 

In  garments  rolled  in  blood  on  foughten  fields  — 
Though  still  the  mothers  and  the  widows  weep 

For  the  slain  heroes  borne  home  on  their  shields. 
Their  glorious  victory  this  day  behold ; 

They  conquered  peace ;  and  where  their  manly  frays 


180  OJiio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Across  the  land  of  bondage  stormed  and  rolled, 

Millions  of  grateful  freedmen  hymn  their  praise. 

Ohio  honors  them  with  happy  tears : 

The  battles  that  they  braved  for  her, 
The  banner  that  they  waved  for  her, 
The  Freedom  that  they  saved  for  her, 

Shall  keep  their  laurels  green  a  thousand  years. 

A  hundred  years  of  Law !     The  people's  will 
The  might  of  the  majority, 
The  right  of  the  minority. 
The  light  hand  with  authority. 
We  promised  with  the  purpose  to  fulfill; 
But  the  contagion  of  the  border-taint 

Blackened  our  statutes  with  its  shameful  stain. 
And  left  the  color  of  our  conscience  faint 

Till  freshened  by  the  battle-storm's  red  rain. 
Ay,  war  was  legislated ;  it  has  cast 

The  "White  Man's  Government"  out  into  the  nighty 
And  Labor,  Knowledge,  Freedom,  Peace  at  last 
Stand  color-blind  in  Law's  resplendent  light. 

Now  Hail,  my  State  of  States !  thy  justice  wins  — 

Thy  justice  and  thy  valor  now  are  one; 
Thou  hast  arisen  and  thy  little  sins 

Are  spots  of  darkness  lost  upon  the  sun. 
Thy  sun  is  up  —  O,  may  it  never  set !  — 

These  hundred  years  were  but  thy  morning  red  r 
It  shall  be  forenoon  for  thy  glory  yet 

When  all  who  this  day  look  on  thee  are  dead. 
O,  splendor  of  the  noon  awaiting  thee ! 
O,  rights  of  man  and  heights  of  manhood  free! 
Hail,  beautiful  Ohio  that  shalt  be! 

Hail,  Ship  of  State  I  and  take  our  parting  cheers  \ 
Ah,  God  I  that  we  might  gather  here  to  see 

Thy  sails  loom  in,  swoln  with  a  thousand  years. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  181 

A  hundred  years  of  Freedom!    Freedom  such 

No  other  people  on  the  earth  had  knozvn 

Till  our  America  the  ivorld  had  shozvn 
What  Freedom  meant.    No  foot  of  slave  might  touch 
Our  earth,  no  master's  lash  outrage  our  heaven. 


THE  CENTENNIAL  ODE. 

By  John   AIilburn  Harding.    (1874-.)^-^ 

Columbia's  pride,  Ohio,  grand  and  fair, 

Where  wealth  and  beauty  are  beyond  compare, 
Where  labor,  truth  and  knowledge  have  control 

Thy  name  is  peer  upon  the  honor  roll. 
Ohio,  first-born  of  the  great  Northwest, 

Nursed  to  thy  statehood  at  the  Nation's  breast 
And  taught  wisdom  of  the  Ordinance  Rule — 

No  slav'ry  chain  but  e'er  the  public  school, 
Ohio,  name  for  what  is  good  and  grand. 

With  pride  we  hail  thee  as  our  native  land ; 
With  jealous  pride  we  sing  our  heartfelt  lay 

To  laud  thy  name  this  first  Centennial  Day. 
One  hundred  years  and  half  as  many  more 

Ago,  from  ripples  on  proud  Erie's  shore 
Far  to  the  south  where,  beautiful  and  grand. 

The  placid  river's  wave  kissed  untrod  sand. 


'-'John  Milburn  Harding  was  born  May  6th,  1874,  on  a  farm  in 
Guernsey  county,  Ohio.  While  quite  young  the  family  removed  to  Free- 
port  township,  Harrison  county,  where  his  boyhood  was  spent  on  a  farm 
and  at  the  district  school.  At  the  age  of  twenty  he  began  to  teach,  sup- 
plementing his  education  with  two  terms  at  Scio  College.  He  studied 
law  and  after  his  admission  to  the  bar  began  to  practice  at  Caldwell, 
Ohio.  Some  years  ago  he  went  to  Lorain,  Ohio,  where  he  has  been  a 
member  of  the  law  firm  of  Snyder  and  Harding.  He  is  now  serving 
his  second  year  as  Police  Prosecutor  of  that  city.  October  29,  1898,  Mr. 
Harding  married  Miss  Cora  Winters  Kuntz,  of  Morgan  county,  Ohio. 
They  have  one  son,  Ray  De  Mont,  born  April  H,  1901.  The  "Centennial 
Ode"  first  appeared  in  the  Ohio  State  Journal.  He  has  also  written  to 
some  extent  of  the  natural  scenes  and  early  historical  activities  in  the 
Tuscarawas  valley. 


182  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

The  dusky  twilight  of  the  forest  old 

Concealed  the  native  Indian,  wild  and  bold. 
Within  the  awe  of  that  primeval  wood 

The  white-skin  captive  lonely,  pining,  stood 
And  longed  to  lift  the  prison  veil  to  roam 

From  savag'ry  to  join  dear  ones  at  home. 
Here  lived  the  greatest,  noblest  Indian  men, 

Retreating  from  their  Eastern  glade  and  glen, 
They  crossed  the  River,  called  this  land  their  own 

And  hoped  to  hunt  and  fish  and  live  alone. 
Here  came  another  Race.     The  renegade. 

The  scout,  the  trapper,   followed  each  his   trade. 
Here,  too,  the  priest  and  bishop,  with  sad  face. 

Converted  souls,  built  missions,  "Tents  of  Grace. "^-* 
But  they  are  gone.     The  annals  of  the  strife 

That  brought  to  one  race  death  another  life. 
Have  oft  been  writ,  by  deeds  not  free  from  stains, 

In  noblest  blood  that  coursed  a  race's  veins. 
Then  came  forth  through  the  gateway  of  the  West 

That  band  of  war-scarred  soldiers,  all  in  quest 
Of  peaceful  homes.     Their  river  voyage  past, 

The  Mayflower  of  the  West,  her  moorings  fast 
To  Buckeye  faith.     With  noble,  pure  desire 

Debarked  that  crew — to  found  a  new  empire. 
They  brought  with  them  their  all ;  but  ere  they  came 

The  purest  laws  that  Liberty  could  frame. 
More  settlers  followed  them.     With  steady  stroke 

And  fire  they  cleared  the  land  of  native  oak, 
And  reared  their  cabin  homes.     Soon  did  appear 

The  rude  log-school  house  of  the  pioneer 
One  decade  and  a  half  of  honest  toil 

Create  a  state  of  Freemen  on  Free  soil. 
One  century  of  statehood — statehood  such 

As  all  the  world  proclaims  the  guiding  touch 
Of  man's  long  strife  for  liberty,  and  one 

Full-gemmed  with  pure  deeds  that  men  have  done. 


'-*  The  'Tents  of  Grace"  were  the  mission  stations  of  the  Moravians 


Poems  on  Ohio.  183 

When  Tyranny  in  dark  expiring  throe, 

A  few  times  dared  on  our  horizon  show 
A  cloud  of  war,  Ohio's  noble  sons 

Were  first  to  bear  and  last  to  stack  their  guns. 
With  Erie's  waters  mixed  their  crimson  blood ; 

They  reached  and  crossed  the  Rio  Grande's  flood; 
They  "Starred  and   Striped"  the  Montezuma's  walls 

They  filled  the  ranks  at  Lincoln's  sev'ral  calls, 
And  fought  till  Freedom  won.    Ohio's  roll 

Was  near  four-hundred  thousand  men,  each  soul 
Free-born  and  taught,  for  that  great  civil  strife. 

Ohio  men  in  every  fight  were  rife, 
In  cabinet  and  battle  camp  each  plan, 

A  Stanton,  Chase,  a  Sherman,  Sheridan, 
Or  Grant  direction  gave.     The  slave  is  free. 

The  breeze  but  one  flag  floats  from  sea  to  sea. 
Pure,  noble  women,  honest  learned  men 

For  peace  and  progress  here  have  ever  been. 
Each  morning's  breeze,  throughout  our  hills  and  dells, 

Wafts  on  its  wings  chimes  of  ten  thousand  bells; 
Ten  thousand  fields  of  sheep  and  kine  give  voice ; 

Ten  thousand  whistling  factories  rejoice ; 
Four  million  people  rise  from  slumber  sweet 

In  happy  homes  their  daily  task  to  meet. 
Ohio,  pearl  of  Western  forest  sea. 

Where  lived  a  race  of  dark  antiquity, 
To  speak  to  us  of  industry  and  toil 

With  tongues  entombed  in  mounds  of  clay  and  soil ; 
Ohio,  guardian  of  eternal  right 

The  lamp  of  justice  burned  but  dimly  bright 
Till  thou,  from  ofif  thy  Northwest  throne 

Interpreted,  with  will  and  arm  of  stone. 
That  grand  old  page,  where  Heaven's  guided  pen 
Had  said,  "Born  free  and  equal  are  all  men;" 
Ohio,  may  thy  "Jewels'  "  number  rise 

To  guard  thy  name  a  thousand  centuries. 
Caldwell,  Ohio,  February  4,  IQO^. 


184  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

OHIO'S  SOLDIER  DEAD.^^" 

By  Thomas  C.  Harbaugh. 

Upon  a  lofty  peak  I  stood,  the  heavens  overhead ; 

I  asked  the  Night  to  say  where  sleep  our  soldier  dead ; 

Where  are  the  men  who  came  not  home  when  War  its  banners 

furl'd, 
And,  flushed  with  victory,  we  stood  before  the  world? 
From  North  and  South,  from  East  and  West  came  answers  on 

the  breeze, 
And  zephyrs  from  the  orange  groves  came  to  me  there  to  tell 
The  winds  and  mountains  round  me  swept  the  storm-b'reath  of 

the  seas. 
Of  God-loved  angel-guarded  graves  in  many  a  distant  dell. 

Where  the  mighty  Mississippi  rolls  in  grandeur  to  the  sea 

And  where  Potomac  rushes  past  the  folded  tents  of  Lee, 

Where  Lookout  mountain  to  the  sky  majestic  lifts  his  crest, 

Where  sweeps  the  old  Missouri  thro'  the  prairies  of  the  West ; 

In  forests  of  palmetto,  in  shaded  brakes  of  pine, 

Where  seldom  seeks  the  busy  bee  the  blossoms  of  the  vine ; 

In  shrouds  that  are  immortal,  won  on  fields  of  carnage  red, 

Waiting  for  the  final  muster,  sleep  Ohio's  soldier  dead. 

At  Gettysburg  and  Arlington  they  fill  a  hero's  tomb, 

And  where  the  hands  of  hunger  shut  on  them  the  gates  of  doom ; 

On  Georgia's  peaceful  plains  they  lie,  their  dreams  of  battle 

o'er — 
Ohio's  sons  who  marched  away  to  come  home  nevermore. 

Their  arms  are  stacked,  their  tents  are  struck,  for  them  on  land 

and  sea 
The  battle  drums  of  fame  have  beat  the  soldier's  reveille ; 
The  flags  they  crowned  with  victory  o'er  them  their  splendors 

shed. 
And  Honor  guards  the  spot  where  sleep  Ohio's  hero  dead. 
They  camp  on  many  a  well  won  hill,  they  sleep  on  many  a  plain, 
They  dream  where  once  the  battleships  with  iron  cut  the  main, 


Courtesy  of   The  Ohio  Magazine. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  185> 

The  roses  of  Virginia  bloom  above  a  missing  host, 

Their  graves  are  mile-stones  all  the  way  from  Nashville  to  the 

coast ; 
They're  touching  elbows  yet,  I  know,  where  once  they  loved  to 

stand, 
Where  sings  the  Rappahannock  and  where  rolls  the  Cumberland ; 
The  roses  of  the  Golden  West  their  snowy  petals  shed 
Upon  the  dewy  pillows  of  Ohio's  soldier  dead. 

To  the  stars  that  shine  at  even  there  is  not  one  missing  grave, 
Their  mellow  light  falls  softly  on  the  loved  and  absent  brave, 
And  he  who  sees  the  sparrow's  fall  hath  marked  the  holy  spots,. 
And  angel  hands  have  planted  there  His  own  forget-me-nots. 
We've  left  them  to  His  keeping,  for  we  know  He'll  keep  them 

well, 
Tho'  lost  they  are  to  us  today  in  wilderness  and  dell ; 
And  tho'  we  never  more  shall  hear  their  gay  and  gallant  tread, 
We  know  God's  bugles  shall  awake  Ohio's  soldier  dead. 

O  sleepers  on  the  mountain  side !     O  campers  neath  the  pines  \ 
O  ye  o'er  whom  are  blooming  now  the  gentle  southern  vines. 
Beside  you  I  would  stand  today,  the  azure  arch  above. 
And  crown  you  with  some  symbol  of  Ohio's  deathless  love. 
She  holds  you  in  her  heart  of  hearts,  for  her  on  land  or  foam 
You   fought  and  sent  her  banners  back,  but  never  more  came 

home ; 
The  sun  upon  our  grand  old  state  his  beams  will  cease  to  shed, 
Ere  she  forgets  one  comrade  of  her  own  heroic  dead ! 


TO  CINCINNATI.i==° 

By  Edward  A.  M'Laughlin.    (1798 — .) 
City  of  gardens,  verdant  parks,  sweet  bowers; 
Blooming  upon  thy  bosom,  bright  and  fair. 
Wet  with  the  dews  of  spring  and  summer's  showers. 
And  fanned  by  every  breath  of  wandering  air; 


""This  poem  appeared  as  one  of  a  collection  printed  in  Cincinnati 
in  1841.  The  general  title  of  the  book  was  "Lovers  of  the  Deep."  To- 
any  one  who  is  acquainted  with  the  culture  of  Cincinnati,  the  prophetic 
vision  of  the  poet  can  be  keenly  appreciated. 


186  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Rustling  the  foliage  of  thy  green  groves,  where 
The  blue-bird's  matin  wakes  the  smiling  morn, 
And  sparkling  humming-birds  of  plumage  rare, 
With  tuneful  pinions  on  the  zephyrs  borne, 
Disport  the  flowers  among,  and  glitter  and  adorn : 

Fair  is  thy  seat,  in  soft  recumbent  rest 

Beneath  the  grove-clad  hills ;  Vk^hence  morning  wings 

The  gentle  breezes  of  the  fragrant  west. 

That  kiss  the  surface  of  a  thousand  spring: 

Nature,  her  many-colored  mantle  flings 

Around  thee,  and  adorns  thee  as  a  b'ride; 

While  polished  Art  his  gorgeous  tribute  brings. 

And  dome  and  spire  ascending  far  and  wide 

Their  pointed  shadows  dip  in  thy  Ohio's  tide. 

So  fair  in  infancy — O  what  shall  be 

Thy  blooming  prime  expanding  like  the  rose 

In  fragrant  beauty;  when  a  century 

Hath  passed  upon  thy  birth  and  time  bestows 

The  largess  of  a  world  that  freely  throws 

Her  various  tribute  from  remotest  shores, 

To  enrich  the  western  Rome :     Here  shall  repose 

Science  and  art ;  and  from  times  subtile  ores  — 

Nature's  unfolded  page — knowledge  enrich  her  stores. 

Talent  and  Genius  to  thy  feet  shall  bring 

Their  brilliant  offerings  of  immortal  birth : 

Display  the  secrets  of  Pieria's  spring, 

Castalia's  fount  of  melody  and  mirth : 

Beauty  and  grace  and  chivalry  and  worth, 

Wait  on  the  Queen  of  Arts  in  her  own  bowers, 

Perfumed  with  all  the  fragrance  of  the  earth 

From  blooming  shrubbery  and  radiant  flowers ; 

And  hope  with  rapture  wed  life's  calm  and  peaceful  hours. 

Oft  as  the  spring  wakes  on  the  verdant  year, 
And  nature  glows  in  fervid  beauty  dress'd, 
The  loves  and  graces  shall  commingle  here. 
To  charm  the  queenly  City  of  the  West; 


Poems  on  Ohio.  187 

Her  stately  youth  with  noble  warmth  impress'd 

Her  graceful  daughters,  smiling  as  in  May — 

Apollos  these,  and  Hebes  those  confessed ; 

Bloom  in  her  warm  and  fertilizing  ray, 

While  round  their  happy  sires  the  cherub  infants  play. 

So  sings  the  Muse  as  she  with  fancy's  eye, 
Scans,  from  imagination's  lofty  height, 
Thy  radiant  beaming  day — where  it  doth  lie 
In  the  deep  future ;  glowing  on  the  night 
From  whose  dark  womb,  empires  unveil  to  light; 
Mantled  and  diademed  and  sceptered  there 
Thou  waitest  but  the  advent  of  thy  flight, 
When  like  a  royal  Queen,  stately  and  fair. 
The  City  of  the  West  ascends  the  regal  chair. 


A  PROPHECY."^ 

By  Return  Jonathan  Meigs. 

Enough  of  tributary  praise  is  paid 

To  virtue  living  or  to  merit,  dead. 

To  happier  themes  the  rural  muse  invites. 

To  calmest  pleasures  and  serene  delights. 

To  us,  glad  fancy  brightest  prospects  shows ; 

Rejoicing  nature  all  around  us  glow ; 

Here  late  the  savage,  hid  in  ambush,  lay. 

Or  roamed  the  uncultured  valleys  for  his  prey; 

Here  frowned  the  forest  with  terrific  shade ; 

No  cultured  fields  exposed  the  opening  glade. 

How    changed    the    scene !     See    nature    clothed    in    smiles 

With  joy  repays  the  laborer  for  his  toils ; 


"'  At  a  celebration,  on  July  4,  1789,  at  Marietta,  the  above  line? 
concluded  the  oration  of  the  day.  Meigs  was  then  a  young  lawyer.  He 
later  occupied  many  places  of  honor,  among  which  was  governor  of 
Ohio.  He  died  in  18"25  and  his  grave  is  in  Mound  Cemetery,  Marietta. 
Doubtless  this  was  the  first  poem  written  in  the  Northwest  Territory. 


188  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Her  hardy  gifts  rough  industry  extends. 

The  groves  bow  down,  the  lofty  forest  bends ; 

On  every  side  the  cleaving  axes  sound — 

The  oak  and  tall  beech  thunder  to  the  ground; 

And  see  the  spires  of  Marietta  rise, 

And  domes  and  temples  swell  into  the  skies; 

Here  justice  reign  and  foul  dissension  cease, 

Her  walks  be  pleasant  and  her  paths  be  peace. 

Here  swift  Muskingum  rolls  his  rapid  waves ; 

There  fruitful  valleys  fair  Ohio  laves; 

On  its  smooth  surface  gentle  zephyrs  play, 

The  sunbeams  tremble  with  a  placid  ray. 

What  future  harvests  on  his  bosom  glide 

And  loads  of  commerce  swell  the  "downward  tide." 

Where  Mississippi  joins  in  length'ning  sweep 

And  rolls  majestic  to  the  Atlantic  deep. 

Along  our  b'anks  see  distant  villas  spread; 

Here  waves  the  corn  and  there  extends  the  mead ; 

Here  sound  the  murmurs  of  the  gurgling  rills ; 

There  bleat  the  flocks  upon  a  thousand  hills. 

Fair  opes  the  lawn — the  fertile  fields  extend 

The  kindly  flowers  from  smiling  heaven  descend; 

The  skies  drop  fatness  on  the  blooming  vale ; 

From  spicy  shrubs  ambrosial  sweets  exhale ; 

Fresh  fragrance  rises  from  the  floweret's  bloom, 

And  ripening  vineyards  breathe  a  "glad  perfume." 

Gay  swells  the  music  of  the  warbling  grove 

And  all  around  is  melody  and  love. 

Here  may  religion  fix  her  blessed  abode, 

Bright  emanation  of  creative  God; 

Here  charity  extend  her  liberal  hand 

And  mild  benevolence  o'er  spread  the  land ; 

In  harmony  the  social  virtues  blend ; 

Joy  without  measure,  rapture  without  end ! 


Poems  on  Ohio.  189 

POEM  OF  LYDIA  HUNTLEY  SIGOURNEY/^- 

( Written  in  1842.) 

Hai! !     Sister,  of  the  beauteous  West, 

Throned    on    thy    river's    sparkhng    tide. 

Who  still  seeks,  with  pitying  breast, 
The  sick  to  heal,  the  lost  to  guide. 

Still  o'er  thy  wounded  children  bend, 

With  bounteous  hand,  and  kindness  true, 

Intent  thine  utmost  skill  to  lend 

The  broken  mind  to  btiild  anew. 

The  care,  the  cure  to  thee  are  dear, 

Of  ills  to  which  the  world  is  blind, 
Or,  sunk  in  apathy  severe. 

To  torture  and  despair  consigned. 

Clothed  and  restored  to  Reason's  sway 
Thou  joy'st  thy  suffering  ones  to  see, 

And  hear  them  pour  the  votive  lay 

To  Heaven,  and  happiness,  and  thee. 

Say,  is  a  nation's  truest  praise 

In  pomp  of  lordly  power  to  shine, 
The  o'ershadowing  pyramid  to  raise, 

Or  hord  the  treasure  of  the  mine? 

No,  no !  with  sympathizing  heart 

From  sorrow's  grasp  the  prey  to  wrest; 

And  thou  hast  chosen  that  better  part; 
God  bless  thee.  Sister  of  the  West ! 


"*  Mrs.  Sigourney  is  known  as  the  "American  Hemans."  She  was 
born  in  Connecticut  in  1791  and  died  in  the  city  of  Hartford,  1865.  She 
wrote  and  compiled  many  books  for  the  young.  The  above  poem  no 
doubt  refers  to  the  building  and  opening  of  the  Asylum  for  the  Insane, 
at  Columbus,  since  this  was  the  first  institution  for  the  treatment  of  the 
insane  west  of  the  Alleghanies. 


190  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

THE  NORTHWEST.^^* 

By  George  Lansing  Taylor.     (1835-1903.)^^^ 

Hail  to  the  "Great  Northwest,"  as  it  stood  in  the  days  of  our 

grandsires ! 
Vast  territorial  realm,  and  fresh  as  at  dawn  of  creation, — 
Fair  as  the  Garden  of  Eden,  and  fraught  wnth  fertility  bound- 
less,— 
Cradle  of  five  great  States,  of  imperial  riches  and  glory ! 
Hail  to  its  limitless  forests,  unscathed  by  the  ax  or  the  firebrand ; 
Solemn,  majestic,  the  pillared  and  leafy  cathedrals  of  nature, 
Organ'd  with  anthems  ^olian,  choired  by  invisible  spirits, 
Mightiest  sylvarum  that  e'er  awed  the  realms  of  mortals ! 
Hail  to  its  prairies,  rolling  in  billowy  oceans  of  verdure. 
Silt  of  pre-Adamite  seas,  and  richer  than  Nile's  inundations, 
Gemmed  with  blossoms  by  millions,  as  bright  as  the  stars  in  the 

heavens. 
Waiting  to  teem  with  culture  and  bread  for  a  world's  population ! 
Hail  to  its  far-flowing  rivers,  voluminous,  countless,  and  pouring 
Floods  unexhausted,  prolific,  the  highways  of  travel  and  traffic : 
Vast  Mississippi,  Ohio,  Maumee,  Wisconsin  and  Wabash, 
Bright  Illinois,  Rock  River,  Muskingum,  St.  Clair  and  Scioto — 
Streams  unnamed  and  unsung,  all  yet  to  be  famous  and  classic ! 
Hail  to  the  five  Great  Lakes,  the  American  Mediterranean, 


''"  George  Lansing  Taylor  was  born  at  Skaneateles,  New  York,  in 
1835.  He  descended  from  a  long  line  of  New  England  Puritans.  When 
twelve  years  of  age  his  parents  moved  to  Fayette,  Ohio.  He  became  a 
student  of  Ohio  Wesleyan  University  but  afterward  went  to  Columbia, 
where  he  graduated  in  18G1.  Upon  graduation  he  was  for  a  time  assist- 
ant editor  of  the  Western  Christian  Advocate.  He  retired  from  this  po- 
sition to  enter  the  Methodist  ministry  and  was  identified  with  the  most 
prominent  churches  in  New  York,  Brooklyn,  New  Haven  and  elsewhere. 
In  1887  he  read  the  centennial  poem  of  Columbia  University.  Dr.  Taylor 
was  versatile  in  his  accomplishments,  —  a  preacher  of  force;  a  historian, 
geographer,  and  naturalist;  a  poet  and  litteratem,*who  contributed  largely 
to  numerous  periodicals  in  prose  and  verse.  He  died  of  paralysis  in  the 
Methodist  Episcopal  Hospital  of  Brooklyn,  Sunday,  July  26th,  1908. 

'''*This  Ohio  Centennial  Poem  appearel  first  in  the  Western  Chris- 
tian   Advocate. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  191 

Fresh  as  the  mountain  springs,  and  blue  as  the  azure  above  them, 
Deep  as  the  seas,  and  as  wide,  with  room  for  the  fleets  of  the  na- 
tions, 
Bearing  today  on  their  bosoms  a  commerce  that  rivals  Atlantic's ! 
Hail  to  the  air  of  this  realm,  its  climate,  inspiring  and  tonic ! 
Hail  to  its  quarries  and  mines — iron,  lead,  copper  and  carbon. 
Limestone  and  freestone  and  grindstone,  to  sharpen  the  sword 

or  the  plowshare 
Oil  from  the  flinty  rock,  and  gas  from  retorts  subterranean — 
Factors     for    industries     vaster     than     ever     the     Old     World 

astounded ! 
Such  was  the  ''Great   Northwest,"  as  it  stood  unexplored  and 

unpeopled. 
Stretching  from  blue  AUeghanies  to  f ar-oflf  Father  of  Waters ; — 
Such  in  its  virgin  perfection,  a  continent's  garden  and  glory. 
Fairest  cluster  of  gems  in  the  Xew  World's  diadem  destined. 


OHIO. 

1802 — 1902. 

By  Kate  Brownlee  Sherwood.     (1841 — )^^" 

Who  comes  here  clad  with  resolute  desire, 
With  arms  of  iron  and  with  limbs  of  steel? 
Who  comes  outreaching  torch  of  holy  fire. 
To  fan  the  forges  and  to  turn  the  wheel? 
Who,  with  calm  tread  and  eye  that  falters  not, 
With  steadfast  gaze  on  things  immutable, 
Pursues  the  mighty  measures  of  her  pace. 
Ascends  to  heaven  or  descends  to  hell, 
To  fathom  all  the  heights  and  depths  of  thought 
And  solve  the  ponderous  problems  of  a  race? 


"°  Mrs.  Sherwood  was  born  in  Poland,  Mahoning  county.  Through- 
out her  life  she  has  been  engaged  in  philanthropic  work,  especially  for 
those  who  suffered  in  the  Civil  War.  Her  writings  are  mostly  patriotic, 
many  being  soldier  lyrics,  which  were  sung  by  the  Union  boys  from 
'61  to  '65. 


192  Ohia  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Hers  is  the  crown  of  nations,  her  confines 

Enshrine  the  trophies  of  abounding  years; 

The  blood  of  heroes  purples  all  her  vines, 

By  valor  sown  and  wet  with  woman's  tears. 

Her  fellowship  is  wrought  of  centuries 

Of  prayers  that  kindle  and  of  deeds  that  burn 

Within  the  secret  chambers  of  the  soul, — 

Flames  from  the  altars  of  the  far  eterne: 

Her  draughts  are  honeyed  from  the  bloomy  leas^ 

The  dew  and  sunshine  mingled  in  the  bowl. 

How  happy  he,  where'er  his  feet  have  trod. 
Who  claims  her  mother,  shares  in  her  estate ; 
His  heart  returns  across  the  ocean  broad, 
To  hail  her  mistress  of  o'ermastering  fate. 
The  tongues  of  prophecy  have  winged  her  fame, 
The  blood  of  martyrs  writ  her  name  on  high ; 
And  poesy  has  struck  the  ecstatic  lyre, 
Thrilling  the  sounding  squadrons  trampling  by, 
To  rout  the  mustering  embassies  of  shame. 
And  bear  a  sign  from  struggling  sire  to  sire. 
O  happy  hills,  O  sweet  sequestered  vales. 
Whereon  the  flocks  and  herds,  in  verdure,  leap ! 
O  harbors  speeding  far  the  spreading  sails, 
O'er  lengthening  lakes  to  the  wide-circling  deep ! 
O  jeweled  cities  of  the  jeweled  West! 
A  hundred  years  of  plentitude  are  thine, 
A  hundred  years  of  dreaming  mighty  dreams, 
With  ax  and  anvil,  plummet,  rule  and  line! 
A  hundred  years  of  babes  upon  thy  breast. 
Full  fed  and  nurstled  with  unfailing  streams! 

Behold  them  coming,  coming  to  the  feast, 
Spread  wide  and  ample  'neath  the  buckeye  bloom, 
The  migrant  sons  that  woo  the  opulent  East, 
The  migrant  sons  from  Western  glade  and  gloom. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  193 

Behold  them  coming,  men  in  virtue  brave, 

And  women  dowered  with  the  diadems 

Of  regal  chastity  and  peerless  youth, 

In  hosts  invincible  no  barrier  stems, 

Clad  in  the  beauty  of  supernal  calm, 

On  fields  of  glory  by  eternal  truth. 

Throw  wide  the  doors,  our  mother  feasts  tonight! 

These  are  the  guards  that  wait  upon  her  gates! 

Fling  wide  your  arms,  your  shields  are  honor  bright ! 

Keep  wide  your  hearts,  a  world  upon  them  waits ! 

Wisdom  and  Glory,  Honor  and  Renown, 

Sit  with  her  at  her  feast,  as  friend  and  guest, 

And  proud  Invention  with  her  thousand  hands, 

Brings  greetings  by  grim  Destiny  expressed: 

"Who  kneels  to  duty  shall  put  on  the  crown 

Love-wrought  of  jewels  from  predestined  lands." 


MY  HOME  ON  THE  OLD  OHIO. 

By  Will  Lamartine  Thompson.     (1847-1909.)' 

Far  away  on  the  banks  of  the  old  Ohio 
Down  where  the  silver  maples  grow, 

Where  the  river  runs  deep  in  the  broad  green  valley, 
Oh,  there's  where  I  lived  long  ago. 


^^Will  Lamartine  Thompson,  the  well-known  and  popular  song 
writer,  was  born  at  East  Liverpool,  Ohio,  November  7,  1847.  His  father 
was  Josiah  Thompson,  a  successful  business  man  and  once  a  member  of 
the  state  legislature..  The  father  and  mother  were  great  lovers  of  music 
and  encouraged  the  natural  ability  of  their  son,  who  at  an  early  age 
began  giving  piano  concerts.  When  only  sixteen  years  old  he  composed 
two  songs  which  were  published.  His  education  was  secured  at  Union 
College  and  later  at  the  Boston  Music  School.  Among  his  published* 
songs,  which  have  become  popular,  might  be  mentioned:  "Gathering 
Shells  from  the  Seashore";  "Drifting  with  the  Tide";  "My  Home  on  the 
Old  Ohio";  "The  Old  Tramp";  "God  Save  Our  Union";  "Softly  and 
Tenderly  Jesus  is  Galling";  "The  Harvest  Time  is  Passing  By."  Mr. 
Thompson  died  September  20,  1909,  in  a  New  York  City  Hospital,  just 
after  he  had  returned  from  a  European  trip,  which  he  had  taken  for  his 
health. 

13 


194  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Ah,  well  I  remember  the  old  cottage  home, 

By  the  side  of  the  long  grassy  lane ; 
How  oft  have  I  wished  for  the  moment  to  come. 

When  I'll  stand  in  my  old  home  again. 

chorus: 
Then  carry  me  back  to  the  old  Ohio, 
Back  to  my  own  cottage  home 
On  the  banks  of  the  river, 
'Neath  the  green  weeping  willow 
Let  me  linger  and  never  more  roam. 

Oh,  'twas  there  in  the  fields  and  the  broad  verdant  meadows, 

I  wandered  with  playmates  that  I  loved 
'Mid  the  perfume  of  flowers  and  sweet  fragrant  blossoms. 

Where  the  birds  sing  so  sweetly  we  roved ; 
But  long,  long  ago  all  my  playmates  were  gone, 

One  by  one  'neath  the  flowers  they  have  lain ; 
On  the  banks  of  the  river,  'neath  the  green  weeping  willow 

I  shall  ne'er  see  their  dear  forms  again. 

Many  long  years  have  passed  since  I  stood  by  the  river, 

And  said,  "Goodbye,  my  happy  home." 
Oh,  'twas  sad,  sad  to  part  with  the  scenes  I  loved  dearly 

And  start  o'er  the  cold  world  to  roam ; 
Take  me  back,  take  me  back  to  the  dear  old  farm, 

Where  the  fields  teem  with  ripe  golden  grain ; 
For  my  heart  is  still  longing  for  my  home  by  the  river, 

Take  me  back  and  I'll  ne'er  roam  again. 


OHIO.     A  BUCKEYE  SONG. 

By  Thomas  Mason  Earl. 

All  hail  the  good  old  State  where  the  spreading  buckeyes  grow. 

The  State  where  I  was  born ; 
Ohio  the  golden  where  the  fairest  sunbeams  glow 

On  nodding  fields  of  corn. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  195 

Or  the  silvry  moonbeams  rest  on  the  meadow's  dewy  breast, 

While  whippoorwills  sing  low; 
And  the  streamlets  purl  to  me  in  their  journey  to  the  sea 

The  songs  of  the  long  ago. 

CHORUS  : 

Ohio,  Ohio,  I  ever  want  to  be 

A  Buckeye  from  Ohio  proud  and  true; 
O'er  memory's  beaten  track,  my  thoughts  will  ere  go  b'ack 

Ohio,  to  you,  to  you. 

There  stands  my  boyhood  home  by  a  little  shady  lane, 

A  meadow,  an  orchard  in  bloom; 
And  old-fashioned  garden  where  the  poppies  grew  so  vain, 

And  lilacs  shed  their  perfume. 
Oh,  I  would  I  were  today  just  a  bare-foot  boy  at  play 

By  that  cottage  home  once  more ; 
As  I  was  when  hope  was  strong,  and  the  summertime  was  long. 

In  those  good  old  days  of  yore. 

CHORUS : 
Ohio,  Ohio  I  ever  want  to  be,  etc. 

In  the  galaxy  of  stars  that  light  Old  Glory's  blue. 

There  are  many  of  lordly  ray; 
But  none  fairer  than  Ohio's  with  radiance  ever  true 

In  peace  or  erst  in  fray. 
And  on  the  scroll  of  Fame  stands  many  a  Buckeye  name 

That  History  calls  great ; 
And  many  a  noble  deed  has  won  applauded  mead 

In  the  old  Buckeye  State. 

chorus: 
Ohio,  Ohio  I  ever  want  to  be,  etc. 

Where'er  I  wander  in  this  world  of  eager  strife, 

I'm  a  Buckeye  just  the  same; 
And  when  the  summons  comes  to  lay  down  this  coil  of  life, 

I'll  breathe  Ohio's  name. 


196  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

And  when  the  angel  band  comes  and  takes  me  by  the  hand 

To  lead  to  the  Golden  Shore, 
I'll  say  I  want  to  go  by  the  way  of  Ohio, 

Thro'  the  good  old  State  once  more. 


CHORUS 

Ohio,  Ohio  I  ever  want  to  be,  etc. 


OHIO  CALLS  YOU  HOME. 

By  Helen  Frances  O'Hara.^" 

Welcome,  welcome,  to  her  borders, 

See !  her  gates  are  open  wide, 
As  she  calls  the  absent  thousands 

That  have  wandered  from  her  side. 
Come  ye,   from  the  dim  horizon 

On  the  far-off  Western  olain ; 
Come  ye  from  the  pine-clad  mountains 

In  the  distant  state  of  Maine. 

Come  from  Canada's  fair  valleys 

Where  you  erstwhile  chose  to  be; 
Come  from  where  the  Mississippi 

Rolls  its  tribute  to  the  sea. 
All  the  dear  ones  that  have  journeyed 

O'er  the  bounding  ocean's  foam; 
Hearken  to  the  joyous  summons 

For  Ohio  calls  you  home. 


'"  Helen  Frances  O'Hara  is  a  native  of  Springfield,  Ohio.  She  has 
been  educated  in  the  schools  of  Clark  and  Madison  counties  and  has 
so  far  written  her  poetry  mostly  for  weekly  papers.  Her  poem  given 
here  appeared  in  the  Ohio  State  Journal  a  few  weeks  before  the  "Buckeye 
Home  Coming,"  1907.  Some  of  her  other  writings  are  "The  Old  Guard, 
Where  are  They  Now,"  which  has  been  set  to  music;  "In  God  We 
Trust";  "Madison  Calling  Her  Children  Home",  and  the  "Home  Comers' 
Farewell." 


Poems  on  Ohio.  197 

Home  to  tread  her  grassy  meadows, 

Home  to  gaze  upon  her  sky, 
Here  to  gather  recollections 

Of  the  happy  days  gone  by. 
Though  'twas  long  ago  you  wandered 

Out  beyond  her  margin's  green ; 
She  could  never  once  forget  you 

Through  the  years  that  intervene. 

Through    your   joys    and    through   your    triumphs 

She  has  felt  the  same  for  you, 
And  was  stirred  with  deep  compassion 

All  throughout  your  sorrows,  too. 
Ev'ry  tear  of  disappointment 

That  your  childhood  days  had  known, 
And  each  sob  that  stirred  your  bosom 

Found  an  echo  in  her  own. 

She  has  guarded  well  your  footsteps 

Through  your  childhood  and  your  prime, 
And  has  seen  you  leave  her  borders. 

For  each  foreign  shore  and  clime. 
She  has  watched  your  onward  progress 

As  you  scaled  the  heights  of  Fame ; 
And  rejoiced  at  each  bright  laurel 

That  was  added  to  your  name. 

So  today  she  sends  the  message 

To  her  children  each  and  all ! 
Once  again  to  journey  homeward 

When  the  leaves  begin  to  fall. 
Once  again  to  come  and  linger 

Here  beneath  her  heaven's  blue, 
And  to  watch  the  golden  glory 

Of  her  sunset's  rosy  hue. 

Come  and  roam  beside  her  rivers 

Where  in  childhood  days  you  trod. 
When  you  heard  her  happy  songsters 

Pouring  forth  their  praise  to  God. 


198  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Come  and  rest  beneath  the  shadows 
Of  the  maple's  bending  bough; 

Listen,  pilgrim,  to  her  pleadings, 
For  Ohio  calls  you  now. 

Come  and  gaze  across  the  landscapes 

Far  extending  mile  by  mile; 
Come  and  taste  the  joy  of  living 

Once  again  beneath  her  smile. 
Give  her  back  the  cherished  homage 

You  have  held  for  her  for  years; 
Grasp  her  hand,  although  'tis  bathed 

With  an  exile's  longing  tears. 

Pour  the  words  of  loyal  triblite 

Now  within  her  waiting  ear, 
For  'twill  sound  like  long-lost  music 

That  she  often  sighed  to  hear. 
Sighed  to  hear  with  ceaseless  yearning 

For  the  voice  so  far  away. 
For  the  tone  that  rang  so  sweetly 

Through  the  songs  of  yesterday. 

She  is  waiting  for  the  footsteps 

That  oft  tread  her  dewy  lea; 
For  the  sounds  that  long  have  echoed 

Through  the  halls  of  memory. 
Rise  up!  nor  think  of  the  distance 

Across  which  you  needs  must  roam; 
But  answer  the  summons  proudly, 

For  Ohio  calls  you  home. 

London.  Ohio. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  199 

MY   BUCKEYE   HOME. 

By  Harriet  M.  Howe.     (1834-1859.)''* 

In  the  great  valley  of  the  West, 

By  bounteous  heaven  so  richly  bless'd, 

Where  Ceres  waves  her  golden  crest, 

And  plenty  makes  her  throne. 
Not  far  from  blue  Sandusky's  side, 
Whose  waves  with  grateful  murmurs  glide, 
To  lose  themselves  in  Erie's  tide. 

There  lies  my  Buckeye  Home. 

When  summer  spreads  her  glowing  skies, 
I  seek  where  dewy  woods  arise. 
Unseen  by  aught  save  fairy  eyes, 
And  fanned  by  zephyr's  balmy  sighs. 

In   pensive    rapture    roam. 
Lulled  by  the  poet's  liquid  lay, 
I  dream  unnumbered  hours  away. 
While  romance  spreads  her  magic  sway 

Around  my  Buckeye  Home. 

O'er  Nature's  book  I  daily  pore, 
Her  deepest  mysteries  ponder  o'er — 
The  silent  wood  the  lonely  shore. 
Yield  sweeter  wisdom,  richer  lore. 

Than  many  an  ancient  tome. 
I  read  Almighty  love  and  power. 
Alike  in  sunshine  or  in  shower, 
A  lesson  in  each  leaf  or  flower. 

Which  decks  my  Buckeye  Home. 


'"^  Harriet  M.  Howe  was  born  May  4,  1834,  at  Elba,  Genesee  county, 
New  York.  She  began  verse-writing  at  the  age  of  fifteen.  Her  parents 
came  to  make  their  home  at  Sandusky,  Ohio,  in  1847,  where  her  father 
lied  four  years  later.  Her  poems  appeared  in  the  Fremont  Democratic 
Messenger  and  in  the  St.  Louis  papers.  She  died  March  25,  1859,  at 
Green    Springs,   Ohio. 


200  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Warm  glows  our  hearth  each  wint'ry  night, 
And  brighter  beams  affection's  light, 
Where  loved  and  loving  ones  unite, 
To  hallow  with  each  social  rite 

The  holy  shrine  of  home. 
Fond  hearts  and  faithful  there  remain, 
Unchilled  by  winter's  icy  chains, 
And  one  eternal   summer   reigns 

Within  my  Buckeye  Home. 

The  laugh  and  song  ring  blithe  and  gay. 
The  bells  peal  forth  their  silvery  lay. 
As  swiftly  in  our  bonny  sleigh. 
We  glide  beneath  the  moon's  pure  ray. 

And  part  the  snowy  foam. 
While  far  above  with  sleepless  eye, 
Orion  guards  the  mid-night   sky. 
And  leads  his  starry  galaxy 

Above  my  Buckeye  Home. 

Thus  far  from  fashion's  mazy  tide, 
And  from  the  giddy  heights  of  pride, 
Down  life's  unruffled  stream  I  glide, 

Unnoticed  and  unknown. 
While  hovering  round  my  quiet  way, 
Contentment  gilds  each  fleeting  day, 
And  pleasure's  ever  genial  ray 

Illumes  my   Buckeye   Home. 


OHIO. 

By  Mary  E.  Kail."" 


Ohio,  I  love  thee,  for  deeds  thou  hast  done 
Thy  conflicts  recorded  and  victories  won ; 


***Mrs.  Mary  E.  Kail  was  a  native  of  Washington  City,  but  she 
spent  the  greater  part  of  her  life  in  the  village  of  Leesburg,  Carroll 
county.  Her  poems  are  mostly  patriotic  and  many  have  been  set  to 
music. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  201 

On  the  pages  of  history,  beaming  and  bright, 

Ohio  shines  forth  Hke  a  star  in  the  night. 

Like  a  star  flashing  out  o'er  the  mountain's  blue  crest, 

Lighting  up  with  its  glory  the  land  of  the  west ; 

Fo-  thy  step  onward  marching  and  voice  to  command, 

Ohio,  I  love  thee,  thou  beautiful  land. 


Commonwealth  grandly  rising  in  majesty  tall — 

In  the  girdle  of  beauty  the  fairest  of  all, 

Tho'  thunders  of  nations  around  thee  may  roar — 

Their  strong  tidal  waves  dash  and  break  on  thy  shore — 

Standing  prouder  and  firmer  when  danger  is  nigh, 

With  a  power  to  endure  and  an  arm  to  defy ; 

Ohio  shall  spread  her  broad  wings  to  the  world. 

Her  bugles  resounding  and  banners   unfurled. 

A  queen  in  her  dignity,  proudly  she  stands, 

Reaching  out  to  her  sister  states  wealth-laden  hands, 

Crown'd  with  plentiful  harvests  and   fruit  from  the  vine, 

And  richly  increasing  ores  from  the  mine. 

While  with  Liberty's  banner  unfurled  to  the  sky — 

Resolved  for  the  Union  to  do  or  to  die — 

Her  soldiers  and  statesmen  unflinchingly  come, 

'Mid  boominp^  of  cannon  and  roll  of  the  drum. 

To  glory  still  onward,  we're  marching  along, 
Ev'ry  heart  true  and  noble  re-echoes  the  song. 
Ever  pledged  to  each  other,  through  years  that  have  fled. 
We  have  hope:  for  the  living,  and  tears  for  the  dead. 
Bless  the  heroes  who  suffered,  but  died  not  in  vain; 
Keep  the  flag  that  we  love — without  tarnish  or  stain. 
Thus  uniting  with  all,  shall  my  song  ever  be 
Ohio,  my  home-land,  my  heart  clings  to  thee! 


202  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

OHIO. 

Joseph  A.  Clark.     (1887—)"" 
[Courtesy  of  the   Southwestern   Book.] 

When  the  evening  shades  have  fallen  and  the  stars  are  in  the  sky. 
And  my  thoughts  returning  homeward,  view  the  days  so  long 

gone  by, 
I  can  see  my  mother  standing  there  beside  the  blushing  rose, 
At  the  home  of  my  dear  childhood,  where  the  old  Ohio  flows. 

When  the  silv'ry  moon  is  shining  and  the  woodland  birds  do  call, 
When   the  world   is   deep  in   slumber,   and   the  dew   is   spread 

o'er  all, 
To   my   heart   there   comes   a  yearning,    for   the   scene   of   long 

ago's— 
For  the  scenes  amid  tlie  valleys  where  the  old  Ohio  flows. 

I  can  see  the  streamlet  running,  I  can  see  a  girlish  face. 
And  upon  the  picture  plainly  can  her  golden  tresses  trace. 
I  can  see  her  there  a  smiling  as  the  breeze  so  softly  blows 
'Mid  the  scenes  of  my  dear  childhood,  where  the  old  Ohio  flows. 


THE  BUCKEYE  PIONEERS. 

OsMAN  C.  Hooper. 

[This  poem  was  written  for  the  Franklin  Centennial,  held  at  Columbus, 

Ohio,   September    15,    1897.] 

Fair  Buckeyeland !  we  sing  your  praise 

And  bare  our  head  to  them 
Who  lived  and  wrought  in  other  days 

And  framed  your  diadem. 


""Joseph  A.  Clark  was  born  in  the  city  of  Cincinnati,  December 
8th,  1887.  Was  educated  in  the  Cincinnati  schools,  and  graduated  from 
St.  Xavier  College  in  1906.  During  his  college  course  he  contributed 
many  articles  and  poems  to  various  publications,  and  at  the  present  time 
is  Editor  of  the  Marquette  Magazine,  published  in  Cincinnati.  Mr. 
Clark  has  been  for  a  number  of  years  connected  with  the  purchasing  de- 
partment of  the  Cincinnati,  Hamilton  &  Dayton  Ry. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  203 


Their  handiwork  none  can  forget; 

The  jewels  of  the  years 
Would  in  your  crown  be  still  unset, 

But  for  the  pioneers! 


Then  a  song  for  the  pioneers. 
The  praise  of  a  hundred  years 

For  the  women  true 

And  the  brave  men  who 
Were  the  pioneers. 

They  blazed  their  way  through  forests  deep, 

A  hundred  years  ago, 
And,  in  the  trusty  rifle's  keep, 

They  braved  a  w'ily  foe. 
They  felled  the  monarchs  of  the  wood, 

They  tilled  the  fertile  plain; 
Kind  heaven  saw  and  called  it  good 

And  made  earth  laugh  with  grain. 
With  latch-string  out,  the  cabin  door 

Gave  greeting  unto  friend; 
To  live  was  good,  but  it  was  more 

To  succor  or  defend. 
And  here,  in  every  breast  there  beat 

A  heart  to  country  true. 
Which  clad  with  strength  the  hurrying  feet 

When  this  old  flag  was  new. 

Undaunted  then  by  any  foe. 

If  red  in  coat  or  face ; 
Unconquered  still,  their  spirits  grow 

And  give  us  of  their  grace. 
And  here,  where  toiled  the  pioneers. 

There  rises  now  elate. 
The  glory  of  a  hundred  years, 

The  beauteous  Buckeve  state. 


204  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

.THE  SONG  OF  OHIO. 

When  the  God  of  our  fathers  looked  over  this  land, 
To  choose  out  a  country  most  worthy  possessing, 
Where  the  rivers  and  plains  are  beauteous  and  grand, 
Might  so  constantly  smile  on  the  light  of  his  blessing, 
From  Erie's  broad  waves  to  the  river  below, 
The  Scioto's  sparkle  and  the  Muskingum's  flow, 
And  the  graceful  Miamis  together  rejoice, 
And  bless  the  All-Father  with  silver-toned  voice. 

'Twas  here  the  good  angel  encamped  with  his  host 

To  cheer  the  brave  woodman,  'mid  his  toil  and  privation, 

Whose  sturdy  ave  fell,  never  grudging  the  cost, 

To  rear  up  such  a  State,  as  the  gem  of  the  nation ; 

Then  join  all  your  voice  in  grateful  acclaim, 

'Tis  the  triump  of  toil  in  Jehovah's  great  name. 

Our  sons  and  daughters  together  may  sing, 

The  Might  is  the  Right,  and  the  Farmer  is  King. 

— Author  UnknotvH. 


Mcpherson  —  Tennessee.  ^" 

By  Capt.  R.  K.  Shaw,  63RD  Ohio,  ^Marietta,  O. 

Like  a  knight  of  the  cavalier  time 
Rode  McPherson,  the  leader,  sublime. 
When  the  halo  of  battle  was  near ; 
The  proud  monarch  of  danger  and  fear, 
And  a  hero  of  heroes  was  he 
When  he  led  in  his  pride,  Tennessee. 

Like  a  King  on  his  Majesty's  throne 
Rode  McPherson,  the  peerless,  alone. 
When  the  sun  in  the  Heaven  was  high, 
At  Atlanta  in  sultry  July. 
And  a  King  of  the  battle  was  he 
When  he  led  in  his  pride,  Tennessee 


General  J.  B.  McPherson  is  buried  in  the  cemetery  at  Clyde,  Ohio 


Poems  on  Ohio.  205 

When  the  guns  of  the  skirmishers  broke, 
Ere  their  pealing  echoes  awoke, 
His  black  charger  was  mounted  in  haste 
And  his  head  to  the  enemy  faced; 
Swiftly  flies  where  his  master  would  be. 
When  he  led  to  the  fight,  Tennessee. 

From  the  Sixteenth,   fast  holding  its  ground, 
To  the  Seventeenth  he  hurries  around, 
And  his  soul  its  high  purpose  divines 
As  he  runs  into  the  enemy's  lines  — 
But  one  chance ! — and  he  takes  it  at  sight 
To  turn  back  and  lead  Tennessee's  fight. 

'Twas  a  glance,  and  a  reining — a  wheel, 
And  the  black  charger  springs  to  the  steel — 
And  soon  riderless  comes  from  the  town ; 
The  lines  shudder — McPherson  is  down ! 
And  McPherson — "Revenge !"  is  the  word 
From  the  lines  of  the  Tennessee  heard. 

And  McPherson — revenge — is  the  way 
That  the  soldiers  remember  that  day. 
They  push  forward,  conquer  the  plain 
Where  McPherson,  thier  idol,  was  slain; 
They  soon  cover  the  ground  where  he  laid 
In  the  front  of  Ohio's  Brigade. 

He  still  leads  them,  though  dead,  on  the  field,. 

With  a  deadlier  purpose  they  wield 

In  his  presence  the  weapons  they  hold, 

Till  the  rebels  far  backward  are  rolled, 

And  a  hero  in  victory,  he, 

When  he  fell  at  thy  head,  Tennessee. 

In  the  hearts  of  his  soldiers  he  rests, 
For  they  buried  him  deep  in  their  breasts ; 
While  a  throbbing  their  bosoms  shall  give,. 
Will  the  love  of  McPherson  still  live. 
And  a  hero  of  heroes  shall  be, 
As  he  was  when  he  led  Tennessee. 


206  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

BEAUTIFUL  OHIO. 
R.  K.  Shaw. 

I. 
Beautiful  Ohio, 

Fairest  daughter  of  Great  Water, 
La  Belle  River  of  Great  Giver, 
Ohio,  ever  flow 
Far  and  free  to  the  sea, 
Ceaselessly  and  grandly, 
Far  and  free  to  the  sea. 

II. 
Thou  art  fed  by  the  dew 
Of  the  glades  of  the  mountains, 
By  their  springs,  by  their  fountains, 
Running  free  unto  thee 
And  with  thee  to  the  sea. 
Ceaselessly  and  grandly, 
Far  and  free  to  the  sea. 

III. 
Thou  art  fed  by  the  gems 
From  the  trees,  from  their  stems, 
They  shiver  and  quiver. 
When  they  fall  at  thy  call, 
Floating  free  unto  thee. 
And  with  thee  to  the  sea, 
Ceaselessly  and  grandly. 
Far  and  free  to  the  sea. 

IV. 
Fairest  daughter  of  Great  Water, 
Rivers  of  rivers,  God  delivers 
A  hundred  rivers   to  thee, 
Running  free  unto  thee. 
And  with  thee  to  the  sea, 
Ceaselessly  and  grandly, 
I'^ar  and  free  to  the  sea. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  207 

V. 


Beautiful  Ohio, 
River,  home  of  our  pride, 
Oft  in  rapture  we  gHde 
O'er  thy  tide  to  the  sea, 
Float  gaily,  joyously 
On  thy  breast  to  the  sea. 
Ceaselessly  and  grandly, 
Far  and  free  to  the  sea, 

VI. 

Happily  by  thy  side 
We  abide,  on  thy  shore 
Evermore,  "Pioneer's  Pride, 
Watching  thee,  floating  free, 
Far  and  free  to  the  sea. 
Ceaselessly  and  grandly. 
Far  and  free  to  the  sea. 

Marietta,  Ohio,  August  ist,  1883. 


AT   ZEISBERGER'S   GRAVE. 

John  AIilburn  Harding. 

(November   17,   1908.) 

[One  Hundred  Years  After  he  Died.] 

There  are  tombs  of  the  high,  there  are  graves  of  the  low, 

There  are  sepulchers  sacred  in  story 
But  the  grave  hollowed  here  just  a  century  ago 

Has  a  halo  of  unselfish  glory. 
'Mid  the  scenes  of  thy  triumphs  and  direst  defeat. 

Near  the  spring  rich  in  savage  tradition, 
Here  you  gave  up  the  ghost  and  at  Jesus'  feet 

You  implored  but  a  Christian  transition. 


208  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

Sixty  years  of  your  life  you  had  headed  the  strife 

To  upbuild  in  the  Indian  nation 
The  Moravian  faith  in  the  heavenly  life, 

And  a  prosperous  civilization. 
Whether  "vagabond"  preacher,  or  prisoner  in  jail. 

Or  adviser  in  savage  commotion. 
Or  a  guest  in  the  lodge,  or  a  guide  on  the  trail. 

You  possessed  the  sincerest  devotion. 

Though  your  labors  were  vain  as  to  saving  the  race, 

Yet  the  souls  that  were  saved  numbered  many. 
The  success  of  your  w^ork  on  our  fair  valley's  face 

Has  scarcely  been  equaled  by  any. 
Could  you  now,  brave  Zeisberger,  return  to  this  vale 

When  the  church  bells  on  the  Sabbath  are  pealing, 
With  thy  "Brown  Brethren"  gone,  and  the  faces  all  pale, 

Would  it  bring  to  you  a  sad  hearted  feeling? 

Still  the  stars  twinkle  down,  and  the  river  still  flows, 

And  the  flowers  broom  in  spring-time  at  Goshen,^" 
Still  the  sunshine  falls,  and  the  rains  and  the  snows, 

But  our  life  has  a  greater  commotion. 
'Twas  the  strength  of  the  race — the  invincible  one — 

That  o'ercame  your  high  hopes  and  ambition, 
And  that  forced  the  brave  Red  Man  to  follow  the  sun 

Would  this  be  to  your  fruition? 


THE  CITY  BEAUTIFUL. 

By  J.  A.  Shawan.i^^' 

Standing  in  the  Valley  where. 
The  peaceful  rivers  flow — 


'"Goshen  was  the  name  of  the  Mission  House  where  Zeisberger 
labored  and  where  he  died.  It  is  a  few  miles  below  New  Philadelphia 
on  the  Tuscarawas. 

'"  Professor  J.  A.  Shawan  is  Superintendent  of  Public  Schools, 
Columbus,  Ohio,  and  is  the  author  of  two  little  volumes  on  F.nropean 
travel. 


Poems  on   Ohio.  209 

Threading  all  the  bridges  as 

Their  waters  onward  go; 
Where  the  golden  sunset  leaves 

The  western  sky  aglow ; 
This  is  our  Columbus,  fair, 

As  ev'ry  one  should  know. 

Here  the  Indian  Councils  met 

In  days  of  long  ago ; 
Met  to  smoke  the  pipe  of  peace, 

Or  plan  to  fight  the  foe: 
Now  Ohio's  laws  are  made 

That  govern  all  the  state ; 
Now  the  din,  the  clatter,  clang, 

But  mark  a  city  great. 

Here  ten-thousand  voices  blend 

Amid  ten-thousand  homes, 
Backward  yearns  the  weary  heart 

When  far  away  it  roams : 
Give  us  our  Columblis,  fair. 

And  let  us  here  abide 
Where  Scioto's  gentle  stream 

Joins  Olentangy's  tide. 

CHORUS. 

Singing  for  Columbus,  then. 

And  singing  for  the  state ; 
Singing  for  the  nation,  too. 

Forever  good  and  great : 
O,  thou  City  Beautiful, 

To   thee   our   hearts   will    cling: 
Happy  thoughts  of  childhood  days, 

Thy  name  will  ever  bring. 


210  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

OHIO. 

Dr.  Aaron  Sherman  Watkins.  ^** 

There's  an  empire  that  lies  on  the  highway  of  trade^ 

'Twixt  the  lake  and  the  beautiful  river, 
And  a  bright  star  of  loyalty  shines  on  her  brow 

And  our  faith  sees  it  shining  forever. 
Then  send  out  the  challenge  o'er  hill,  plain  and  glen; 

From  lake,  river,  streamlet  and  bayou ; 
To  all  lands  now  floating  the  Red,  White  and  Blue  — 

We  love  the  Old  Flag  in  Ohio. 

When  forests  waved  over  this  empire's  domain 

And  wild  men  roamed  over  her  borders, 
"Take  from  him  the  talent,"  the  great  Master  said, 

And  an  army  marched  forth  with  their  orders. 
Then  read  the  great  record  o'er  hill,  plain  and  glen ; 

O'er  lake,  river,  streamlet  and  bayou; 
The  wilderness  wakened  and  bloomed  like  the  rose 

For  those  grand  pioneers  of  Ohio. 

Here  Grant,  Hayes,  McKinley  and  Garfield  were  born ; 

Written  now  in  their  country's  grand  story. 
And  a  host  of  great  men  to  our  commonwealth  dear, 

The  source  of  her  pride  and  her  glory. 


'"Aaron  S.  Watkins  was  born  at  Rushsylvania,  Ohio,  November 
29,  1863.  After  attending  the  public  school  he  became  a  student  at  the 
Ohio  Northern  University,  from  which  he  graduated  in  1886.  Three 
years  later  he  was  admitted  to  the  bar ;  in  1902  Taylor  University,  Up- 
land, Indiana,  conferred  upon  him  the  LL.  D.  In  1893  he  became  a  Meth- 
odist minister  and  served  several  pastorates  in  Northern  Ohio.  From 
1907  to  1909  he  occupied  the  chair  of  Literature  at  his  Alma  Mater. 
Resigning  this  position  he  accepted  the  Presidency  of  the  college  at 
Wilmore,  Ky.  Dr.  Watkins  was  the  Prohibition  candidate  for  the  Vice- 
Presidency  in  1908.  In  1905  he  was  the  Prohibition  nominee  for  Gov- 
ernor of  Ohio. 


Poems  on  Ohio.  211 

Then  ring  out  the  annals  o'er  hill,  plain  and  glen, 

O'er  lake,  river,  streamlet  and  bayou ; 
Of  the  good  and  the  great  that  our  nation  has  known, 

We  have  had  our  full  share  in  Ohio. 

When  the  dark  hand  of  war  overshadowed  our  land, 

And  hearts  failed  with  fear  and  with  terror, 
A  multitude  rose  in  this  grand  Buckeye  State 

To  strike  down  disunion  and  error. 
Then  ring  out  the  message  o'er  hill,  plain  and  glen, 

O'er  lake,  river,  streamlet  and  bayou ; 
If  our  nation  wants  men,  in  the  time  of  her  need, 

She  can  always  depend  on  Ohio. 


A  BUCKEYE  HOMECOMING. 

By  Thomas  Mason  Earl. 

(This  poem  was  written  to  be  sung  at  the  Home  Coming  of  the 
Buckeyes  at  Columbus,  Ohio,  September  2-6,  1907.) 

My  native  state,  Ohio, 

Once  more  thy  sward  I  tread, 
Once  more  my  eyes  behold  thy  skies 

Of  azure  overspread. 
I  breathe  again  thy  buoyant  air, 

I  taste  again  thy  waters  cool. 
And  feel  the  joy  of  growing  boy 

By  the  old  swimming  pool. 

I've  wandered  in  the  Westlands, 

And  East  I've  chanced  to  roam. 
But  never  yet  could  e'er  forget 

Ohio  as  my  home. 


212  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

I  loved  its  meadows,  peaceful  streams, 
The  vine-clad  cottage  low 

Where  first  the  light  broke  on  my  sight 
In  time  so  long  ago. 

With  clasp  again  of  friendly  hands, 

And  heart-to-heart  commune. 
Dull  cares  take  wing  while  memories  bring 

Aback  life's  time  of  June, 
When  golden  goals  rose  fair  to  view 

And  high  hopes  burned  sublime, 
When  Love  was  young  and  all  unsung 

The  vicissitudes  of  time. 

Who  would  not  be  a  Buckeye 

And  proud  with  Buckeye  stand 
To  own  the  great  OHIO  state. 

The  fairest  of  the  land? 
Come,  raise  a  carol  to  her  praise. 

The  grand  old  chorus  swell :  — 
Our  prayer  shall  be,  fair  state  with  thee 

Heaven's  peace  may  ever  dwell. 


OHIO  GOOD  AND  TRUE. 

(Tune:   Austria.) 
By  Jacob  A.  Shawan."^ 

Brightly  gleams  a  star  of  beauty 
In  "Old  Glory's"  field  of  blue, 

There  it  shines  a  glowing  emblem 
Of  Ohio,  good  and  true. 


""Jacob  A.  Shawan,  Superintendent  of  the  Columbus,  Ohio,  schools, 
was  born  at  Wapakoneta,  Auglaize  County,  Ohio.  He  was  educated  in 
the  public  schools  and  graduated  from  Oberlin  in  1880.     Since  his  grad- 


Poems  on  Ohio.  213 

We  will  stand,  our  dear  Ohio, 

Stand  for  right  against  the  wrong, 

Help  to  keep  thy  name  unsullied ; 
Loyal,   faithful,  noble,  strong. 

O,  thou  state  of  happy  childhood. 

Rippling  brooks,  and  fields  of  green, 
All  that  Nature  hath  she  gives  thee 

Richest  fruits  and  skies  serene. 
From  thy  hillsides,  from  thy  valleys. 

Loud  the  gladsome  anthems  ring ; 
Songs  of  birds  and  songs  of  Nature, 

Songs  of  joy  and  peace  we  bring. 

Mark  her  Jewels  !    Mark  her  heroes  ! 

Office,  shop,  and  field,  and  glen 
Promptly  send  a  hundred  thousand 

When  the  nation  calls  for  men. 
Float  on  !    Float !  thou  flag  eternal ; 

Still  that  star  shall  ever  shine 
For  the  Buckeye's  fame  and  honor 

Are  forever  linked  with  thine. 


uation  he  has  devoted  his  Hfe  to  public  education,  holding  three  Super- 
intendencies,  —  St.  Marys,  Mt.  Vernon  and  Columbus  —  in  which  posi- 
tions he  has  taken  high  rank  as  an  educator.  He  has  been  frequently 
honored  by  his  associates  to  places  of  confidence  in  the  associations  of 
his  profession.  He  has  served  as  President  of  the  Central  Ohio  Teach- 
ers' Association,  Central  Ohio  Schoolmasters'  Club,  Treasurer  of  the 
Ohio  Teachers'  Association  and  Vice-President  of  the  National  Edu- 
cational Association  and  member  of  the  National  Council  of  Education. 
In  December,  1881,  he  married  Miss  Jennie  Koch  Holmes  of  DegrafF, 
Ohio.     Mr.  and  Mrs.  Shawan  are  the  parents  of  three  sons. 


214  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

OHIO:  A  LEGEND. 

D.  Tod  Gilliam. 

An  Aviator  sailing  through  the  skies, 
'Tis  said,  in  quest  of  Paradise, 
Checked  suddenly  his  rapid  flight, 
And  gazed  in  rapture  at  the  sight. 
That  burst  upon  his   startled  eyes, 
And  held  him  speechless  in  surprise. 
Quoth  he,  at  length,  his  sense  regained, 
"My  long  sought  purpose  is  attained. 
If  Paradise  exist  below. 
This  surely  must  be  it  I  know ; 
'Tis  Paradise  or  Ohio. 

'I've  sailed  the  skies  of  every  clime, 
I've  seen  the  beautiful,  sublime. 
But  never  in  my  wanderings  wide. 
O'er  solid  earth  or  ocean's  tide, 
Has  such  a  realm  of  mortal  bliss. 
Filled  sense  and  soul  replete  like  this 
'Tis  one  or  t'other  —  that  I  know, 
'Tis  Paradise  or  Ohio. 


'There's  naught  in  space  to  block  the  view, 
'Twixt  green-clad  earth  and  heaven's  blue. 
Save  fleecy,  flowing,  wraith-like  shrouds, 
Of  erstwhile  tumbling  summer  clouds. 
Mellow  light,  the  perfumed  air. 
Birds  of  plume,  flowers  rare. 
Birds  of  song  with  swelling  throat, 
Pulsing  lays  of  sweetest  note, 
Crystal  streams,  the  singing  brook. 
Sunlit  plains,  the  shaded  nook, 


Poems  on  Ohio. 


215 


Verdant  hills,  the  fleecy  flock, 
Bubbling  springs,  the  mossy  rock, 
From  all  I've  heard  and  seen,  I  know 
'Tis  Paradise  or  Ohio." 


INDEX. 

Anonymous —  page 

Back    In    Old    Ohio 1 

Old  Erie    17 

The   Shawnees  at  Wapakoneta 57 

To   the   Ohio 78 

Settlers'    Song    108 

Battle  of  Point  Pleasant 109 

Sinclaire's    Defeat    110 

The   Hills   of   Ohio 116 

A   Party  Song   116 

Sandusky    117 

Governor   Tod    159 

Ohio's    First    Printed    Poem 167 

The  Song  of  Ohio 204 

Adams,  John  S. — 

Elizabeth    Zane    135 

Brotherton,  Alice  Williams  — 

The   Buckeye    10 

Baird,  Chambers  — 

Sunset  on  the   Ohio   River 19 

To   John    Rankin 162 

Bryant.   William   Cullen  — 

Pre-Historic    Race    35 

A  Walk  at  Sunset 40 

Brooks,  Moses  — 

An   Aposthrophe  to  a  Mound 36 

Blennerhassett,  Mrs.  Harman  — 

The   Deserted  Isle    113 

Case,  Luella  J.  B.  — 

The    Indian    Relic 44 

Coffinberry,  Andrew  — 

The    Forest    Rangers 67 

John  Cade's   Song 112 

Carleton,  Will  — 

Sleep,    Old    Pioneer! 104 

Cist,  Lewis  J. — 

Ohio's    Pilgrim    Band 105 

Child,  Maria  Lydia  — 

Appleseed  John    132 

(217) 


218  Ohio  .Ircli.  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 


CURRV.    OtWAY  — 

Log  Cabin   Song 172 

Clark,  Joseph   A. — 

Ohio    202 

DoNNELL,  Jessie  V.  — 

Tecumseh    137 

Dalzell,  James  M.  — 

John   Gray,  Washington's   Last    Soldier 138 

Dill,  Mrs.  E.  S.  — 

Johnny    Appleseed    155 

Duffield,  D.  Bethune  — 

Anniversary    Ode    174 

Emerson,  William   Dana  — 

To  the   Ohio    River 12 

Earl,  Thomas  Mason  — 

Ohio.     A    Buckeye    Song 194 

A  Buckeye   Homecoming   211 

Grant,  Nellie  — 

Imperium    In    Imperio 2 

Gallagher,  William   D.  — 

The   West    5 

Our   Western    Land 26 

The    Spotted    Fawn 51 

Song  of  the  Pioneers 100 

Gilliam,  D.  Tod  — 

Ohio:    A    Legend 214 

Gilmore,  William  Edward  — 

Lines  Written  on  Mount  Logan 17 

Gurley,  Rev.  L.  B. — 

Erie    25 

Hooper,  Osman  C.  — 

Ohio    Beautiful    24 

The   Buckeye    Pioneers 202 

Harbaugh,  Thomas  C.  — 

The    Pioneers    fi5 

Ohio's    Soldier    Dead 184 

Hawkins,  Thomas  L. — 

Old   Betsy    120 

Hubbard,  William  — 

At  The  Grave  of  Simon  Kenton 130 

Harris,  Sullivan  D.  — 

A    Song    for    Ohio I(i6 

Howe,  Harriet  M.  — 

My   Buckeye    Home 109 


Index.  219 

PAGE 

Harding,  John  Milburn  — 

At    Zeisberger's    Grave 207 

Jones,  Charles  A. — 

The  Old   Mound 39 

Tecumseh    60 

The    Pioneers     98 

Jones,  Juuus  V. — 

The    Indian    Maiden 50 

Kelley,  Alfred  — 

The    Black    Hand 46 

Kinney,  Colonel  Coates  — 

Ohio   Centennial   Ode 176 

Kail,  Mary  E.  — 

Ohio    200 

McClung,  Littell  — 

The    Ohio    6 

McMeens,  Robert  R.,  M.  D.  — 

The  Islands  of   Erie 33 

Milburn,  John  — 

The   Centennial   Ode    181 

McLaughlin,  Edward  A.  — 

To    Cincinnati    185 

Meigs,  Return  Jonathan  — 

A    Prophecy    187 

Naylor,  James   Ball  — 

The    Hardy    Pioneer 96 

The  Cumberland  Stage 118 

The   Old    National    Road 122 

The  Old   River  Bridge 124 

Johnny   Appleseed    150 

The    Poet   of   Clovernook 153 

O'Hara,  Helen  Francis  — 

Ohio  Calls  You   Home 196 

Peabody,   Ephraim  — 

Western    Scenery    3 

Lake   Erie    20 

The  Ohio    21 

The   Backwoodsman    79 

Parker,  Benjamin  S.  — 

Indian    Graves    41 

Platt,  John  J. — 

The    Western    Pioneer 83 

Plimpton,  Florus  B. — 

Lewis    Wetzel     126 


220  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist.  Society  Publications. 

PAGE 

Roberts,  Anna  Ricky  — 

La    Belle    Riviere 15 

Rankin,  James  — 

Farewell  Song  of  the  Wyandot  Indians 48 

Ross,  A.  C  — 

Tippecanoe  and   Tyler,  Too 157 

Sherwood,   Kate   Brownlee  — 

The    Buckeye    6 

The   Logan   Elm 52 

Mahoning  Valley  Pioneers'  Reunion,  Sept.  10th,  1877 84 

The    Maumee    Pioneers 89 

Ohio     191 

Smith,  Sarah  Louisa  P.  — 

The   Ohio    8 

Shreve,  Thomas  H.  — 

To   An   Indian   Mound 37 

Reflections  of  An   Aged   Pioneer 102 

S PERRY,  William  J. — 

A  Lament   for  the  Ancient  People 62 

Shaw,  Elizabeth  — 

The    Pioneers    92 

Stewart,  Gideon  Tabor  — 

Ohio's  Welcome  to  John  Quincy  Adams 142 

Southworth,  Geo.  C.  S.  — 

Ode   on    Stanton 161 

Smith,  John  P. — 

The  Sorrow  of  the  Nation 163 

Shaw,  Rodney  K.  — 

The  Triumph   of   Liberty 169 

McPherson  —  Tennessee    204 

Beautiful  Ohio    206 

Sigourney,  Mrs.  — 

Poem  of  Lydia  Huntley  Sigourney 189 

Shawan,  J.  A. — 

The  City  Beautiful 208 

Ohio  Good  and  True 212 

Thomas,  Frederick  W. — 

The   Emigrant    74 

Thurston,  Mrs.  Laura  M.  — 

Crossing   the   Alleghenies 81 

Taylor,  George  Lansing  — 

The    Northwest    190 

Thompson,  Will  Lamartine  — 

My  Home  on  the  Old  Ohio 193 


Index.  221 

PAGE 

Venable,  William  H. — 

To  the  Little  Miami  River 9 

The   Buckeye   Tree 23 

Wending  Westward    63 

The  Founders  of  Ohio 107 

Eighty-Seven    108 

John   Filson    147 

Van  Cleve^  John  W. — 

Success  to  You,  Tom  Corwin 156 

Watkins,  Aaron  Sherman  — 

Ohio  210 

Whittier,  John  Greenleaf  — 

The   Gary   Sisters 155 


678020 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


