OF  THE 
UNIVERSITY    ' 
OF 


ON 


a  t  n  v  a  I  jStliirt.r* 


FOE  PEACTICAL  USE  IN  EVEEY 
HOUSEHOLD, 

FOB     READERS     OF     ALL     CLASSES 
BY   A,   BERNSTEIN. 


CONTENTS: 

THE  WEIGHT  OF  THE  EARTH  — VELOCITY— NUTRITION  — LIGHT 
AND  DISTANCE  — THE  WONDERS  OF  ASTRONOMY  — METEOR- 
OLOGY—THE  FOOD  PROPER  FOR  MAN. 


fork: 
CHE.  SCHMIDT,  PUBLISHER,  39  CENTRE  STREET. 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1869,  by 
OHR.    SCHMIDT, 

in  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States,  for  the  Southern 
District  of  New  York. 


BERNSTEIN'S 

TREATISE 


NATURAL  SCIENCE. 


"In  primis,  hominis  est  propria  VERI  inquisitio  atque  investigatio. 
"Itaque  cum  sumus  negotiis  necessariis,  curisque  vacui,  turn  avemus 
"  aliquid  videre,  audire,  ac  dicere,  cognitionemque  rerum,  aut  occul- 
"tarum  aut  admirabilium,  ad  ben&  beatdque  vivendum  necessariam 
"ducimus  ; — ex  quo  intelligitur,  quod  VEBUM,  simplex,  sincerumqe  sit, 
"  id  esse  naturae  hominis  aptissimum.  Huic  veri  videndi  cupiditati 
"adjuncta  est  appetitio  qusedam  principatus,  ut  nemini  parere  ani- 
"musbenea  natura  informatus  velit,  nisi  prsecipienti,  aut  docenti, 
"  aut  utilitatis  causa  juste  et  legitimk  imperanti  :  ex  quo  animi  magni- 
tude existit,  et  humanarum  rerum  contemtio." 

CICERO,  DE  OFFICIIS,  Lib.  1.  §  13. 

Before  all  other  things,  man  is  distinguished  by  his  pursuit  and 
investigation  of  TBTJTH.  And  hence,  when  free  from  needful  business 
and  cares,  we  delight  to  see,  to  hear,  and  to  communicate,  and 
consider  a  knowledge  of  many  admirable  and  abstruse  things  neces- 
sary to  the  good  conduct  and  happiness  of  our  lives  :  whence  it  is 
clear  that  whatsoever  is  TBUE,  simple,  and  direct,  the  same  is  most 
congenial  to  our  nature  as  men.  Closely  allied  with  this  earnest 
longing  to  see  and  know  the  truth,  is  a  kind  of  dignified  and  princely 
sentiment  which  forbids  a  mind,  naturally  well  constituted,  to  submit 
its  faculties  to  any  but  those  who  announce  it  in  precept  or  in  doc- 
trine, or  to  yield  obedience  to  any  orders  but  such  as  are  at  once 
just,  lawful,  and  founded  on  utility.  From  this  source  spring  great- 
ness of  mind  and  contempt  of  worldly  advantages  and  trouble^ 


CONTENTS. 


PART    I. 

THE  WEIGHT   OF   THE  EAETH. 
CHAPTER.  PAGE. 

I.  How  many  pounds  the  whole  earth  weighs 3 

II.  The  attempt  to  weigh  the  earth 5 

III.  Description  of  the  experiment  to  weigh  the  earth 8 

PART    II, 

VELOCITY. 

I.  Velocities  of  the  forces  of  nature 13 

II.  How  can  the  velocity  of  the  electric  current  be  ascer- 
tained      15 

PART    III. 

NUTEITION. 

I.  Nothing  but  milk 21 

II.  Man  the  transformed  food : 

III.  What  strange  food  we  eat fe;: 

IV.  How  nature  prepares  our  food 29 

V.  "What  becomes  of  the  mother's  milk  after  it  has  entered 

the  body  of  the  child 32 

VI.  How  the  blood  becomes  the  vital  part  of  the  body 35 

VH.  The  circulation  of  matter 38 

VIII.  Food 41 

IX.  About  nutrition  . .  44 


CONTENTS. 


PART    IV. 

LIGHT  AND  DISTANCE. 
CHAPTER.  PAGE. 

I.  Something  about  illumination 49 

II.  The  illumination  of  the  planets  by  the  sun 52 


PART    V. 

THE   WONDEBS  OF   ASTBONOMY. 

I.   A  wonderful  discovery 57 

II.  The  main  support  of  Leverrier's  discovery 60 

m.  The  great  discovery 63 

PART    VI. 

METEOROLOGY. 

I.  Something  about  the  weather 69 

II.  Of  the  weather  in  summer  and  winter 73 

III.  The  currents  of  air  and  the  weather 75 

IV.  The  firm  rules  of  meteorology 78 

V.  Air  and  water  in  their  relations  to  weather 81 

VI.  Fog,  clouds,  rain,  and  snow 84 

VII.  How  heat  in  the  air  becomes  latent,  and  how  it  gets  free 

again ._._._._. 87 

VEIL  Latent  heat  produces  cold,  free  heat  produces  warmth. .  90 

IX.  Kules  about  the  weather,  and  disturbance?  of  the  same . .  93 
X.  The  changeableness  of  the  weather  with  regard  to  our 

geographical  position 96 

XI.  About  the  difficulty  and  possibility  of  determining  the 

weather , 98 

XII.  The  false-weather  prophets 101 

Xin.  Has  the  moon  influence  upon  the  weather? 103 


CONTEXTS.  IX 

PART    VII. 

OUB   ARTICLES   OF   FOOD. 
CHAPTER.  PAGE- 

I.  The  rapid  renewal  of  the  blood  is  an  advantage 109 

II.  Digestion 112 

III.  Coffee 114 

IV.  Coffee  as  a  medicine - 117 

V.  Usefulness  and  hurtfulness  of  coffee 119 

VI.  Breakfast 121 

VII.  Liquor 125 

VIII.  Injuriousness  of  drinking  liquor 131 

IX.  The  poor  and  the  liquor 134 

X.  The  consequences  of  intemperance,  and  its  prevention. .  137 

XI.  Dinner 140 

XII.  Necessity  for  variety  in  food 143 

XII.  Broth 146 

XIV.  What  is  best  to  be  put  into  soup 149 

XV.  Leguminous  vegetables 152 

XVI.  Meat  and  vegetables 155 

XVII.  The  nap  after  dinner 158 

XVIII.  Water  and  beer 161 

XIX.  The  supper «... 164 


PART  I. 
THE  WEIGHT  OF  THE  EARTH. 


CHAPTEE   I. 

HOW  MANY  POUNDS   THE   WHOLE   EARTH  WEIQ-HS. 

NATURAL  philosophers  have  considered  and  investigated 
subjects  that  often  appear  to  the  unscientific  man  beyond 
the  reach  of  human  intelligence.  Among  these  subjects 
may  be  reckoned  the  question,  "  How  many  pounds  does 
the  whole  earth  weigh  ?" 

One  would,  indeed,  believe  that  this  is  easy  to  answer. 
A  person  might  assign  almost  any  weight,  and  be  perfectly 
certain  that  nobody  would  run  after  a  scale,  in  order  to 
examine,  whether  or  not  an  ounce  were  wanting.  Yet  this 
question  is  by  no  means  a  joke,  and  the  answer  to  it  is  by 
no  means  a  guess ;  on  the  contrary,  both  are  real  scientific 
results.  The  question  in  itself  is  as  important  a  one,  as 
the  answer,  which  we  are  able  to  give,  is  a  correct  one. 

Knowing  the  size  of  our  globe,  one  would  think  that 
there  was  no  difficulty  in  determining  its  weight.  To  do 
this,  it  would  be  necessary  only  to  make  a  little  ball  of 
earth  that  can  be  accurately  weighed  ;  then  we  could  easily 
calculate  how  many  times  the  earth  is  larger  than  this 
little  ball;  and  by  so  doing,  we  might  tell,  at  one's  finger- 
ends,  that — if  we  suppose  the  little  earth-ball  to  weigh  a 
hundred-weight — the  whole  globe,  being  so  many  times 
larger,  must  weigh  so  many  hundred-weights. 

Such  a  proceeding,  however,  would  be  very  likely  to  mis- 
lead us.  For  all  depends  on  the  substance  the  little  ball 
is  made  of.  If  made  of  loose  earth,  it  will  weigh  little;  if 
stones  are  taken  with  it,  it  will  weigh  more ;  while,  if  metals 

(3) 


4  THE    WEIGHT    OF    THE    EARTH. 

were  put  in,  it  would,  according  to  the  kind  of  metal  you 
take,  weigh  still  more. 

If,  then,  we  wish  to  determine  the  weight  of  our  globe  by 
the  weight  of  that  little  ball,  it  is  first  necessary  to  know 
of  what  our  globe  consists;  whether  it  contains  stones, 
metals,  or  things  entirely  unknown;  whether  empty  cavi- 
ties, or  whether,  indeed,  the  whole  earth  is  nothing  but  a 
hollow  sphere,  on  the  surface  of  which  we  live,  and  in 
whose  inside  there  is  possibly  another  world  that  might 
be  reached  by  boring  through  the  thick  shell. 

With  the  exercise  of  a  little  thought,  it  will  readily  be 
seen  that  the  question,  "How  much  does  our  earth  weigh  ?" 
in  reality  directs  us  to  the  investigation  of  the  character 
of  the  earth's  contents;  this,  however,  is  a  question  of  a 
scientific  nature. 

The  problem  was  solved  not  very  long  ago.  The  result 
obtained  was,  that  the  earth  weighs  6,069,094,212  billions 
of  tons;  that,  as  a  general  thing,  it  consists  of  a  mass  a 
little  less  heavy  than  iron  ;  that  towards  the  surface  it  con- 
tains lighter  materials  ;  that  towards  the  centre  they  in- 
crease in  density  ;  and  that,  finally,  the  earth,  though  con- 
taining many  cavities  near  the  surface,  is  itself  not  a  hol- 
low globe. 

The  way  and  manner  in  which  they  were  able  to  inves- 
tigate this  scientifically,  we  will  attempt  now  to  set  forth 
as  plainly  and  briefly  as  it  can  possibly  be  done. 


CHAPTEE  II. 

THE  ATTEMPT  TO  WEIGH  THE  EARTH. 

IT  is  our  task  to  explain,  by  what  means  men  have  suc- 
ceeded in  weighing  the  earth,  and  thus  become  acquainted 
with  the  weight  of  its  ingredients. 

The  means  is  simpler  than  might  be  thought  at  the  mo- 
ment. The  execution,  however,  is  more  difficult  than  one 
would  at  first  suppose. 

Ever  since  the  great  discovery  of  the  immortal  Newton, 
it  has  been  known  that  all  celestial  bodies  attract  one 
another,  and  that  this  attraction  is  the  greater,  the  greater 
the  attracting  body  is.  Not  only  such  celestial  bodies  as 
the  sun,  the  earth,  the  moon,  the  planets, and  the  fixed  stars, 
but  all  bodies  have  this  power  of  attraction  ;  and  it  in- 
creases in  direct  proportion  to  the  increase  of  the  mass  of 
the  body.  In  order  to  make  this  clear,  let  us  illustrate  it 
by  an  example.  A  pound  of  iron  attracts  a  small  body 
near  by ;  two  pounds  of  iron  attract  it  precisely  twice  as 
much  ;  in  other  words,  the  greater  the  weight  of  an  ob- 
ject, the  greater  the  power  of  attraction  it  exercises  on 
the  objects  near  by.  Hence,  if  we  know  the  attractive 
power  of  a  body,  we  also  know  its  weight.  Nay,  we  would 
be  able  to  do  without  scales  of  any  kind  in  the  world,  if 
we  were  only  able  to  measure  accurately  the  attractive 
power  of  every  object.  This,  however,  is  not  possible ; 
for  the  earth  is  so  large  a  mass,  and  has  consequently  so 
great  an  attractive  power,  that  it  draws  down  to  itself  all 
objects  which  we  may  wish  other  bodies  to  attract. 
If,  therefore,  we  wish  to  place  a  small  ball  in  the  neighbor- 

(5) 


6  THE    WEIGHT    OF    THE    EARTH. 

hood  of  ever  so  large  an  iron-ball,  for  the  purpose  of  having 
the  little  one  attracted  by  the  large  one,  this  little  ball 
will,  as  soon  as  we  let  it  go,  fall  to  the  earth,  be- 
cause the  attractive  power  of  the  earth  is  many,  very 
many  times  greater  than  that  of  the  largest  iron-ball  ;  so 
much  greater  is  it,  that  the  attraction  of  the  iron-ball  is  not 
even  perceptible. 

Physical  science,  however,  has  taught  us  to  measure  the 
earth's  attractive  power  very  accurately,  and  this  by  a 
very  simple  instrument,  viz.,  a  pendulum,  such  as  is  used 
in  a  clock  standing  against  the  wall.  If  a  pendulum  in  a 
state  of  rest — in  which  it  is  nearest  to  the  earth — is  dis- 
turbed, it  hastens  back  to  this  resting-point  with  a  certain 
velocity.  But  because  it  is  started  and  cannot  stop  with- 
out the  application  of  force,  it  recedes  from  the  earth  on 
the  other  side.  The  earth's  attraction  in  the  meanwhile 
draws  it  back,  making  it  go  the  same  way  over  again. 
Thus  it  moves  to  and  fro  with  a  velocity  which  would  in- 
crease, if  the  earth's  mass  were  to  increase  ;  and  decrease, 
if  the  earth's  mass  were  to  decrease.  Since  the  velocity 
of  a  pendulum  may  be  measured  very  accurately  by  count- 
ing the  number  of  vibrations  it  makes  in  a  day,  we  are 
able  also  to  calculate  accurately  the  attractive  power  of 
the  earth. 

A  few  moments'  consideration  will  make  it  clear  to  every- 
body, that  the  precise  weight  of  the  earth  can  be  known  so 
soon  as  an  apparatus  is  contrived,  by  means  of  which  a 
pendulum  may  be  attracted  by  a  certain  known  mass,  and 
thus  be  made  to  move  to  and  fro.  Let  us  suppose  this 
mass  to  be  a  ball  of  a  hundred  pounds,  and  placed  near  a 
pendulum.  Then  as  many  times  as  this  ball  weighs  less 
than  the  earth,  so  many  times  more  slowly  will  a  pendu- 
lum be  moved  by  the  ball. 

It  was  in  this  way  that  the  experiment  was  made  and 
the  desired  result  obtained.  But  it  was  not  a  very  easy 


THE    ATTEMPT    TO    WEIGH    THE    EARTH.  1 

undertaking,  and  we  wish,  therefore,  to  give  our  thinking 
readers  in  the  next  chapter  a  more  minute  description  of 
this  interesting  experiment,  with  which  we  shall  for  the 
present  conclude  the  subject. 


CHAPTEE   III. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  EXPERIMENT  TO  WEIGH  THE 
EARTH. 

CAVENDISH,  an  English  physicist,  made  the  first  success- 
ful attempt  to  determine  the  attractive  power  of  large 
bodies.  His  first  care  was,  to  render  the  attraction  of  the 
earth  an  inefficient  element  in  his  experiment.  He  did  it 
in  the  following  way  : 

On  the  point  of  an  upright  needle  he  laid  horizontally  a 
fine  steel  bar,  which  could  turn  to  the  right  and  left  like 
the  magnetic  needle  in  a  compass-box.  Then  he  fastened 
a  small  metallic  ball  on  each  end  of  the  steel  bar.  The 
balls  were  of  the  same  weight,  for  this  reason  the  steel  bar 
was  attracted  by  the  earth  with  the  same  force  at  both 
ends  ;  it  therefore  remained  horizontal  like  the  beam  of 
a  balance,  when  the  same  weight  is  lying  in  each  of  the 
scales.  By  this  the  attractive  force  of  the  earth  was  not 
suspended,  it  is  true  ;  but  it  was  balanced  by  the  equality 
of  the  weights.  Thus  the  earth's  attractive  power  was 
rendered  ineffective  for  the  disturbance  of  his  apparatus. 

Next  he  placed  two  large  and  very  heavy  metallic  balls 
at  the  ends  of  the  steel  bar,  not,  however,  touching  them. 
The  attractive  force  of  the  large  balls  began  now  to  tell ; 
it  so  attracted  the  small  ones  that  they  were  drawn  quite 
near  to  the  large  balls.  When,  then,  the  observer,  by  a 
gentle  push,  removed  the  small  balls  from  their  resting- 
place,  the  large  ones  were  seen  to  draw  them  back  again. 
But  as  the  latter  could  not  stop  if  once  started,  they 
crossed  their  resting-point,  and  began  to  vibrate  near  the 

(8) 


DESCRIPTION    OF   THE    EXPERIMENT   TO    WEIGH    THE    EARTH.        9 

large  balls  in  the  same  manner  as  a  pendulum  does,  when 
acted  upon  by  the  attractive  force  of  the  earth.  Of  course 
this  force  was  exceedingly  small,  compared  with  that  of 
the  earth  ;  and  for  that  reason  the  vibrations  of  this  pendu- 
lum were  by  far  slower  than  those  of  a  common  one.  This 
could  not  be  otherwise  ;  and  from  the  slowness  of  a  vibra- 
tion, or  from  the  small  number  of  vibrations  in  a  day, 
Cavendish  computed  the  real  weight  of  the  earth. 

Such  an  experiment,  however,  is  always  connected  with 
extraordinary  difficulties.  The  least  expansion  of  the  bar, 
or  the  unequal  expansion  or  contraction  of  the  balls,  caused 
by  a  change  of  temperature,  would  vitiate  the  result  ;  be- 
sides, the  experiment  must  be  made  in  a  room  surrounded 
on  all  sides  by  masses  equal  in  weight.  Moreover,  the 
observer  must  not  be  stationed  in  the  immediate  neighbor- 
hood, lest  this  might  exercise  attractive  force,  and  by  that 
a  disturbance.  Finally,  the  air  around  must  not  be  set  in 
motion,  lest  it  might  derange  the  pendulum  ;  and  lastly,  it 
is  necessary  not  only  to  determine  the  size  and  weight  of 
the  balls,  but  also  to  obtain  a  form  spherical  to  the  utmost 
perfection;  and  also  to  take  care  that  the  centre  of  gravity 
of  the  balls  be  at  the  same  time  the  centre  of  magnitude. 

In  order  to  remove  all  these  difficulties,  unusual  precau- 
tions and  extraordinary  expenses  were  necessary.  Reich, 
a  naturalist  in  Freiberg,  took  infinite  pains  for  the  removal 
of  these  obstacles.  To  his  observations  and  computations 
we  owe  the  result  he  transmitted  to  us,  viz.  :  that  the  mass 
total  of  the  earth  is  nearly  five  and  a  half  times  heavier 
than  a  ball  of  water  of  the  same  size  ;  or,  in  scientific 
language  :  The  mean  density  of  the  earth  is  nearly  five 
and  a  half  times  that  of  water.  Thence  results  the  real 
weight  of  the  earth  as  being  nearly  fourteen  quintillioris 
of  pounds.  From  this,  again,  it  follows  that  the  matter  of 
the  earth  grows  denser  the  nearer  the  centre  ;  conse- 
quently it  cannot  be  a  hollow  sphere. 


10  THE    WEIGHT    OF   THE    EARTH. 

If  we  consider,  that  from  the  earth's  surface  to  its  centre 
there  is  a  distance  of  3,956  miles,  and  that,  with  all  our 
excavations,  no  one  has  yet  penetrated  even  five  miles,  wo 
have  reason  to  be  proud  of  investigations  which,  at  least 
in  part,  disclose  to  man  the  unexplorable  depths  of  the 
earth. 


PART  II. 
VELOCITY. 


CHAPTEE   I. 

VELOCITIES  OF  THE  FORCES  OF  NATURE. 

IN  former  times,  when  a  man  would  speak  of  the  rapidity 
with  which  light  traverses  space,  most  of  his  hearers 
thought  it  to  be  a  scientific  exaggeration  or  a  myth.  At 
present,  however,  when  daily  opportunity  is  afforded  to 
admire,  for  example,  the  velocity  of  the  electric  current  in 
the  electro-magnetic  telegraph,  every  one  is  well  convinced 
of  the  fact,  that  there  are  forces  in  nature  which  traverse 
space  with  almost  inconceivable  velocity. 

A  wire  a  mile  in  length,  if  electrified  at  one  end,  be- 
comes in  the  very  instant  electrified  also  at  the  other  end. 
This  and  similar  things  every  one  may  observe  for  him- 
self ;  then,  even  the  greatest  sceptic  among  you  will 
clearly  see,  that  the  change — or  "electric  force" — which 
an  electrified  wire  undergoes  at  one  end,  is  conveyed  the 
length  of  a  mile  in  a  twinkle,  verily  as  if  a  mile  were  but 
an  inch. 

But  we  learn  more  yet  from  this  observation.  The 
velocity  with  which  the  electric  force  travels  is  so  great, 
that  if  a  telegraph-wire,  extending  from  New  York  to  St. 
Louis  and  back  again,  is  electrified  at  one  end,  the  electric 
current  will  manifest  itself  at  the  other  end  in  the  same 
moment.  From  this  it  follows,  that  the  electric  force 
travels  with  such  speed  as  to  make  a  thousand  miles  in  a 
space  of  time  scarcely  perceptible.  Or,  in  other  words,  it 
travels  a  thousand  miles  in  the  same  imperceptible  frac- 
tion of  a  moment  that  it  does  a  single  mile. 

And  experience  has   taught  us  even  more  yet.     How- 

(13) 


14  VELOCITY. 

ever  great  the  distance  connected  by  a  telegraphic  wire 
may  be,  the  result  has  always  been,  that  the  time  which 
electricity  needs  to  run  that  distance,  is  imperceptibly 
small  ;  so  that  it  may  well  toe  said,  its  passage  occupies 
an  indivisible  moment  of  time. 

One  might  even  be  led  to  believe  that  this  is  really  no 
"  running  through  " — in  other  words,  that  this  transmission 
of  effect  from  one  end  of  the  wire  to  the  other  end  does  not 
require  any  time  at  all,  but  that  it  happens,  as  if  by  en- 
chantment, iu  one  and  the  same  instant.  This,  however, 
is  not  the  case. 

Ingenious  experiments  have  been  tried,  to  measure  the 
velocity  of  the  elective  force.  It  is  now  undoubtedly 
proved,  that  it  actually  does  require  time  for  it  to  be 
transmitted  from  one  place  to  another  ;  that  this  certain 
amount  of  time  is  imperceptible  to  us  for  this  reason,  viz., 
that  all  distances  which  have  ever  been  connected  by  tele- 
graph, are  yet  too  small,  to  make  the  time  it  takes  for  the 
current  to  go  from  one  end  to  the  other,  perceptible  to  us. 

Indeed,  if  our  earth  were  surrounded  by  a  wire,  it  would 
still  be  too  short  for  common  observation,  because  the 
electric  force  would  run  even  through  this  space — twenty- 
five  thousand  miles  very  nearly — in  the  tenth  part  of  a 
second. 

Ingenious  experiments  have  shown  that  the  electric  cur- 
rent moves  two  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  miles  in  a 
second.  But  how  could  this-  have  been  ascertained  ?  And 
are  we  certain  that  the  result  is  trustworthy  ? 

The  measurements  have  been  made  with  great  exacti- 
tude. To  those  who  are  not  afraid  of  a  little  thinking,  we 
will  try  to  represent  the  way  in  which  this  measurement 
was  taken  ;  although  a  perfect  representation  of  it  is  very 
difficult  to  give  in  a  few  words. 


CHAPTEK   II. 

HOW  CAN  THE  VELOCITY  OF  THE  ELECTRIC  CURRENT 
BE  ASCERTAINED. 

IN  order  to  illustrate,  bow  the  velocity  of  the  electric 
current  can  actually  be  measured,  we  must  first  introduce 
the  following  : 

Whenever  a  wire  is  to  be  magnetized  by  an  electric 
machine,  at  the  moment  it  touches  the  machine,  a  bright 
spark  is  seen  at  the  end  of  the  wire.  The  same  spark  is 
seen  also  at  the  other  end  of  the  wire,  if  touching  another 
apparatus.  Let  us  call  the  first  spark  the  "entrance- 
spark,"  the  other  the  "  exit-spark."  If  a  wire,  many  miles 
in  extent,  is  put  up,  and  led  back  to  where  the  beginning  of 
the  wire  is,  both  sparks  may  be  seen  by  the  same  ob- 
server. 

Now  it  is  evident,  that  the  exit-spark  appears  after  the 
entrance-spark  just  as  much  later,  as  the  time  it  took  the 
electric  current  to  run  from  one  end  of  the  wire  to  the 
other  end.  But  in  spite  of  all  efforts  made,  to  see  whether 
the  exit-spark  actually  appears  later,  the  human  eye  has 
not  been  able  to  detect  the  difference.  The  cause  of  this 
is  partly  owing  to  the  long  duration  of  the  impression 
upon  the  retina,  which  leads  us  to  the  belief,  that  we  see 
objects  much  longer  than  we  really  do;  partly,  the  immense 
rapidity  with  which  the  exit-spark  follows  the  entrance- 
spark.  From  these  two  causes,  we  are  tempted  to  believe 
both  sparks  to  appear  at  the  same  moment. 

By  an  ingenious  and  excellent  means,  however,  this 
defect  in  our  eye  has  been  greatly  diminished.  It  is  well 

(15) 


1 6  VELOCITY. 

worth  the  trouble  to  read  a  description  of  the  experiment 
attentively.  The  truly  remarkable  way  in  which  it  was 
tried,  will  please  all  who  read  it. 

In  order  to  measure  the  velocity  of  the  electric  current, 
the  ends  of  a  very  long  wire  are  placed  one  above  the 
other.  If,  now,  one  makes  the  observation  with  the  naked 
eye,  both  sparks  will  be  found  to  stand  in  a  vertical  line, 
one  above  the  other,  as  the  points  of  a  colon,  thus  (:). 

But  he  who  wishes  to  measure  the  velocity  of  the 
electrical  current  does  not  look  upon  the  sparks  with  the 
naked  eye,  but  into  a  small  mirror,  which,  by  a  clock-work, 
is  made  to  revolve  upon  an  upright  axis  with  exceedingly 
great  rapidity.  Thus  he  can  see  both  sparks  in  the  mirror. 
If  the  apparatus  be  a  good  one,  it  will  be  observed  that 
the  sparks,  as  seen  by  the  aid  of  the  mirror,  do  not  stand 
in  a  vertical  line  above  one  another,  but  obliquely,  thus  (/). 

Whence  does  this  come  ? 

The  reason  of  it  is,  that  after  the  appearance  of  the 
entrance-spark  it  takes  a  short  time,  before  the  exit-spark 
appears.  During  this  short  time  the  mirror  moves,  though 
but  little,  and  in  it  the  exit-spark  is  seen  as  if  it  had  moved 
aside  from  the  entrance-spark. 

Hence,  it  is  through  the  movement  of  the  mirror  that 
the  time,  which  is  necessary  for  electricity  to  go  through 
the  circuit  of  the  wire,  is  ascertained.  A  little  reflection 
will  readily  convince  the  reader,  that  the  time  may  be  pre- 
cisely calculated,  provided  three  things  be  known,  viz.  : 
the  length  of  the  wire,  the  velocity  of  rotation  of  the 
mirror,  and  the  angular  distance  of  the  two  sparks  as  seen 
in  the  mirror.  Thus  :  Suppose  the  wire  to  be  1,000  miles 
long;  and  suppose  the  mirror  is  made  to  revolve  100,000 
times  in  a  second.  Now,  if  the  electrical  current  traversed 
these  1,000  miles  of  wire  during  one  revolution  of  the 
mirror,  then  it  follows,  that  the  current  must  move  1,000 
miles  in  the  TOO  part  of  a  second;  or,  100,000  miles  in  a 
second. 


VELOCITY  OF  THE  ELECTRIC  CURRENT.  17 

It  is  found,  however,  that  the  mirror  does  not  revolve  an 
entire  circle,  or  360  degrees,  while  the  current  is  passing 
over  1,000  miles  of  wire,  but  we  find  that  the  mirror  turns 
through  144  degrees  very  nearly  ;  therefore  the  electric 
current  must  travel  more  than  100,000  miles  a  second. 
How  much  more  ?  Just  as  many  times  100,000  miles,  as 
144  degrees  are  contained  in  360  degrees  (the  entire 
circle),  viz.,  two  and  a  half  times.  Hence,  the  current 
travels  250,000  miles  in  a  second. 


PART  III. 
NUTRITION. 


CHAPTEK  I. 

NOTHING-  BUT  MILK. 

CONCEIVE  a  man,  gifted  with  the  keenest  intellect,  but 
not  knowing  from  experience,  that  sucklings  grow  and 
become  men,  and  imagine  what  he  would  say,  if  you  were 
to  tell  him  this  : 

"  Know,  that  the  little  being  you  see  here,  is  a  suckling, 
that  is,  a  developing  human  being,  who  Toy  and  by  will 
become  thicker  and  taller.  The  bones  of  his  body  will  be- 
come firmer  and  longer.  The  muscles  that  animate  these 
bones  will  likewise  increase  in  size.  The  same  will  hap- 
pen with  regard  to  his  eyes,  ears,  nose,  mouth  ;  to  his 
head,  body,  and  feet ;  every  component  part  of  his  small 
body  will  be  developed  further  and  further,  until  the  child 
will  become  a  perfect  man." 

There  is  no  doubt,  that  he  who  does  not  know  all  this 
from  experience,  will  shake  his  head  at  it. 

But  if  you  were  to  tell  him  :  "  This  development  and 
growth  have  their  source  in  the  baby's  sucking  at  the 
mother's  breast  a  white  juice  called  milk,  and  out  of  this 
milk  all  the  constituent  parts  of  the  child  are  manufac- 
tured within  himself," — certainly  your  hearer  would  laugh 
in  your  face,  and  perhaps  call  you  a  credulous  fool. 

"What  I"  he  would  exclaim,  "  do  you  mean  to  say  that 
milk  contains  flesh  ?  Or  can  you  make  bones  out  of  milk, 
or  hair  ?  Can  you  make  nails  and  teeth  out  of  milk  ?  Do 
you  wish  to  persuade  me,  that  milk  may  be  changed  into 
eyes  ?  that  from  milk  may  be  manufactured  feet,  hands, 

(21) 


22  NUTRITION. 

cheeks,  eyelids,  and  the  various  other  parts  of  the  human 
body?" 

And  if,  in  answer  to  this,  you  were  to  reply  :  "Yes, 
it  is  so.  Within  this  little  creature  is  a  factory,  that  not 
only  makes  all  you  have  mentioned,  but  much  more  In 
this  establishment,  bones,  hair,  teeth,  nails,  flesh,  blood, 
veins,  nerves,  skin,  juices,  and  water  are  manufactured; 
all  this  is  made  from  milk,  and  during  the  first  months  of 
the  child's  life  from  nothing  but  milk," — then  your  hearer, 
though  he  may  have  the  understanding  of  the  most  judi- 
cious of  men,  would  be  dumbfounded,  and  would  beseech 
you  to  tell  him  more  about  this  factory. 

You  may  be  certain,  he  would  like  to  know,  how  many 
boilers,  cylinders,  valves,  wires,  ladles,  oars,  pumps,  hooks, 
pins,  spokes,  and  knobs  there  may  be  in  this  factory ;  more 
especially  would  he  wish  to  know,  whether  the  engine  of 
this  wonderful  establishment  be  made  of  steel,  wood,  cast- 
iron,  silver  or  gold,  or  of  diamonds. 

Now,  if  you  were  to  tell  him,  "  It  contains  nothing  of 
the  kind.  Of  all  the  factories  you  have  seen  in  your  life, 
there  is  none  that  bears  any  resemblance  to  this  one.  And 
I  will  tell  you  furthermore,  that  it  is  not  even  a  complete 
factory,  but  it  is  continually  developing  ;  it  becomes  larger 
and  heavier  like  the  child's  body  itself ;  moreover,  the  fac- 
tory does  not  consist  of  iron  or  steel,  nor  of  gold  or  dia- 
monds, but  it  reproduces  itself  at  every  moment;  it  does 
so  merely  from  the  milk  that  the  child  drinks," — then,  to 
be  sure,  your  hearer  would  begin  to  doubt  his  own  senses; 
he  would  exclaim:  "What  is  the  intellect  of  the  intelli- 
gent, the  judgment  of  the  judicious,  what  is  the  wisdom  of 
the  wise,  when  compared  to  a  little  of  the  mother's  milk  ?" 

And  yet,  you  are  well  aware,  my  friendly  reader,  that 
mother's  milk  is,  after  all,  nothing  but  milk;  and  that  milk, 
again,  is  nothing  but  a  means  of  nutrition;  and  nutrition, 


NOTHING    BUT   MILK.  23 

in  its  turn,  is  nothing  but  a  part  of  the  action  of  the  human 
body. 

May  I  hope  that  you  will  favor  me  with  your  attention, 
while,  in  a  few  articles,  I  speak  to  you  about  the  nutri- 
tion of  the  human  body  ? 


CHAPTEK  II. 

MAN  THE  TRANSFORMED  FOOD 

BEFORE  speaking  of  the  process  of  nutrition  in  the  human 
body,  we  must  first  obtain  a  correct  idea  of  what  is  meant 
by  nutrition. 

Why  are  we  obliged  to  eat  ? 

Of  course  we  know  that  hunger  forces  us  to  do  so.  But 
every  one  is  aware  also,  that  above  all  we  must  ask, 
whence  hunger  arises;  that  we  must  first  get  better  ac- 
quainted with  hunger  itself,  in  order  to  understand  nutri- 
tion. 

To  explain  this,  however,  it  is  necessary  to  turn  our  at- 
tention to  another  thing,  no  less  a  miracle  than  nutrition 
itself,  viz.,  what  in  scientific  language  is  called  "  Exchange 
of  Matter."  To  all  of  you  it  is  a  well-known  fact,  that 
nothing  in  the  human  body  remains  even  for  a  moment  in 
the  same  state;  but  that  in  every  part  of  the  body  a  con- 
tinued exchange  takes  place.  Air  is  breathed  in  and  ex- 
haled again;  but  the  air  exhaled  is  different  from  the  air 
inhaled.  By  this  process  an  exchange  of  matter  has  taken 
place;  new  matter  has  entered  the  body  and  waste  matter 
has  been  thrown  out. 

This  exchange  of  matter — we  shall  speak  more  about  it 
at  another  opportunity — is  a  principal  necessity  for  the 
body  and  its  functions;  it  consists  in  the  main  of  an 
incessant  change,  by  which  our  body  is  forced  to  cast 
out  matter  that  formed  parts  of  it,  and  is  therefore  obliged, 
in  order  to  compensate  for  the  loss,  to  take  in  new  matter. 
Hence  there  is  no  exaggeration  in  the  expression,  "  Man  is 

(24) 


MAN   THE   TRANSFORMED    FOOD.  25 

continually  renewing  himself;"  we  indeed  lose  and  receive 
particles  of  our  body  at  every  moment.  People  have  gone 
so  far  as  to  calculate  that  it  takes  seven  years  for  the  re- 
newal of  the  whole  body  of  man,  and  that  after  this  space, 
there  is  not  even  an  atom  left  of  the  man  as  he  was  seven 
years  before. 

The  regular  exchange  of  matter,  as  we  have  seen,  sup- 
poses the  body  to  be  a  barter-place,  where  people  take  in 
at  the  same  ratio  they  pay  out.  Since,  however,  man 
often  pays  out  involuntarily  and  suffers  so  many  losses — 
by  the  mere  process  of  breathing  he  ejects  matter  which 
he  must  replace  afterwards — this  exchange  of  matter  is 
the  cause  of  the  body's  possessing  the  feeling  of  want. 
The  body  has  paid  out  and  receives  nothing  in  return;  this 
feeling  of  want  is  what  we  call  "  Hunger."  It  forces  us  to 
absorb  as  much  as  we  have  paid  out. 

Nutrition,  consequently,  is  the  continual  replacing  of 
continual  losses.  It  is  the  wonderful  transformation  of 
food  into  the  materials  composing  the  human  body. 

When  looking  at  our  fellow-men,  however,  we  must  not 
think,  that  they  are  merely  beings  that  have  eaten  food; 
but  rather  that  they  themselves,  viz.,  their  skin,  hair, 
bones,  brain,  flesh,  blood,  nails,  and  teeth,  are  nothing  but 
their  own  food,  consumed  and  transformed. 


CHAPTEK  III. 

WHAT  STRANGE  FOOD  WE  EAT, 

MAN,  according  to  what  has  preceded,  is  nothing  but 
transformed  food. 

This  idea  may  frighten  us;  it  may  be  terrible  to  our 
hearts ;  but  let  us  frankly  confess,  it  is  a  true  one  !  Man 
consists  only  of  such  substances  as  he  has  consumed;  he 
is,  in  fact,  nothing  but  the  food  he  has  eaten;  he  is  food  in 
the  shape  of  a  living  being. 

A  child  is  said  to  live  on  his  mother's  milk;  but  what 
else  does  this  mean  than  :  "  It  is  mother's  milk,  that  has 
become  alive  by  having  been  changed  into  head,  body, 
hands,  feet,  etc.,  etc." 

Indeed,  it  may  sound  strange,  yet  it  is  quite  correct: 
This  mother's  milk  in  the  shape  of  a  human  being  con- 
sumes again  new  mother's  milk,  and,  by  respiration,  by 
evaporation  and  secretion  of  matter,  casts  out  the  used-up 
milk. 

This  being  so,  it  will  now  appear  evident  to  every  one, 
that  by  a  profound  chemical  knowledge  of  our  daily  food, 
we  may  readily  learn  to  know  the  chemical  components  of 
man,  and  vice  versa;  knowing  the  substances  of  which  man 
is  made,  it  is  easy  for  us  to  determine,  what  kind  of  food 
he  must  take,  in  order  to  continually  renew  his  body. 

Since  the  mother's  milk  is  the  simplest  and  most  natural 
food  for  the  child,  let  us  consider  it  according  to  its  im- 
portance. We  shall  then  have  a  stepping-stone  towards 
the  knowledge  of  the  food  of  adults  and  its  effects.  The 
mother's  milk  contains  all  the  elements,  with  which  the 

(26) 


•    WHAT    STRANGE        FOOD    WE    EAT.  2f 

human  bod^  can  renew  itself;  should  there  be  but  one  of 
those  elements  wanting  in  it,  the  child  would  inevitably 
perish. 

If,  for  example,  milk  did  not  contain  calcareous  earth, 
the  consequence  would  be,  that  the  bones  of  the  child 
would,  soon  after  its  birth,  neither  grow  nor  increase  in 
number,  but  they  would  fast  diminish,  and  the  child  would 
die  in  consequence  of  this.  The  attempt  was  once  made 
to  feed  animals  on  articles  without  calcareous  parts,  when, 
strange  to  behold,  they  all  grew  fat,  but  very  weak  in 
their  bones,  and  finally  broke  down. 

If  milk  contained  no  phosphorus,  not  only  would  the 
bones  and  teeth  suffer  from  the  want  of  it,  but  even  the 
completion  of  the  child's  brain  could  not  properly  take 
place,  and  the  child  could  not  replace  the  quantity  of  brain 
which  it  emits  and  loses  every  moment  by  breathing. 

If  there  were  no  iron  in  the  mother's  milk,  the  child 
would  die  from  the  green-sickness,  a  malady  which,  by  the 
way,  is  dangerous  also  for  grown  people,  and  which  is 
cured  by  medicines  containing  plenty  of  iron. 

If  there  were  no  sulphur  in  it,  the  child's  bile  could 
not  develop  ;  the  bile,  as  every  one  knows,  has  an  impor- 
tant function  in  the  human  body. 

These  are  but  accessory  elements  of  the  mother's  milk, 
elements  which  usually  are  not  looked  upon  as  articles  of 
food;  for  who  is  aware  that  he  must  eat,  and  actually  does 
eat  daily,  phosphorus,  iron,  calcareous  earth,  and  sulphur  ? 
And  not  only  these;  there  are  a  great  many  other  articles, 
such  as  magnesia,  chlorine,  and  fluor,  that  we  eat  without 
being  aware  of  it ;  moreover,  our  proper  food  consists  also 
of  three  gases:  nitrogen,  oxygen,  and  hydrogen  ;  and  of  a 
solid  substance  called  "  carbon,"  which  is  no  less  and  no 
more  than  pure  coal. 

All  these,  my  friendly  readers,  are  contained  in  milk — • 
*11  these  are  the  elements  which  in  truth  constitute  the 


28  NUTRITION. 

human  body.  Perhaps  some  persons  believe  that  there  is 
nothing  easier  than  to  procure  proper  food.  It  would  only 
be  necessary  to  take  a  certain  quantity  of  carbon,  hydrogen, 
oxygen,  and  nitrogen  ;  a  little  bit  of  potassium,  natron, 
calcium,  and  magnesia  ;  to  mix  a  small  piece  of  iron,  sul- 
phur, phosphorus,  chlorine,  and  fluor,  and  take  this  mix- 
ture by  the  spoon  at  regular  intervals,  in  order  to  give 
the  body  the  necessary  aliments.  This,  however,  would  be 
a  mistake,  for  which  the  perpetrator  would  pay  with  his 
life. 

Although  it  is  true  that  these  substances  form  the 
proper  and  most  important  constituents  of  our  daily  food  ; 
yet,  in  order  to  enjoy  the  desired  result,  we  must  not  par- 
take of  them  in  their  primary  forms  ;  they  can  actually 
feed  our  body  only  when  they  are  combined  together  in  a 
peculiar,  wondrous  manner. 

In  the  next  chapter  it  may  be  seen  how  nature  first  must 
combine  these  substances  before  they  are  presented  to  us 
as  proper  food  ;  and  it  will  also  be  seen,  that  we  receive 
them  sometimes  in  altogether  different  forms  and  combina- 
tions ;  for  example,  in  the  mother's  milk,  when  we  eat  the 
above-named  elements  in  the  forms  of  caseine  (cheese), 
butyrine  (butter),  sugar  of  milk,  salt,  and  water.  . 

These  latter  names  have  a  more  savory  sound,  have 
they  not  ? 


CHAPTEE   IV. 

HOW  NATURE  PREPARES  OUR  FOOD. 

IN  the  preceding  article  it  was  stated,  that  the  food  of 
the  child  which  lives  on  mother's  milk,  consists  in  its 
primary  elements  of  peculiar  substances.  These  are  prin- 
cipally oxygen,  hydrogen,  and  nitrogen  ;  three  gases  to 
which  may  be  added  a  large  quantity  of  carbon,  or,  what 
is  the  same,  coal.  Besides  this  wondrous  mixture  of  air 
and  coal,  the  mother's  milk  contains  still  other  elements, 
but  in  a  smaller  proportion.  In  every-day  life  many  of 
them  are  unfamiliar  ;  for  example,  natron,  calcium,  mag- 
nesia, chlorine,  and  fluor  ;  the  others,  however,  are  known 
to  every  one  ;  viz.,  iron,  sulphur,  and  phosphorus.  All 
these  strange  ingredients  nature  has  carefully  transformed 
into  milk.  For  in  their  primary  state,  and  even  in  various 
chemical  combinations  that  may  be  produced  artificially, 
they  would  be  little  adapted  for  the  purpose.  It  is  there- 
fore essentially  necessary  that  nature  herself  should  make 
them  ready  for  us.  This  she  does  by  letting  them  pass 
first  into  the  vegetable  state,  and  changing  them  afterwards 
into  new  forms. 

The  plant  feeds  on  primary  chemical  elements  ;  or,  to 
state  it  more  correctly,  the  plant  is  nothing  but  trans- 
formed primary  elements!  Not  before  the  transformation 
of  these  elements  into  plants  are  the  elements  adapted  for 
food  for  animals  and  men. 

Moreover,  all  that  man  eats  must  first  have  been  in  the 
vegetable  state.  Now,  it  is  true  that  man  also  eats  the 
flesh,  fat,  and  eggs  of  animals  ;  but  whence  have  the  ani- 

(29) 


30  NUTRITION. 

mals  meat  and  eggs  ?     Only  from  the  plants  they  con- 
sume. 

There  is  a  remarkable  succession  of  transformations  in 
nature.  The  primary  elements  nourish  the  plant ;  the 
plant  nourishes  the  animal ;  and  both,  plant  and  animal, 
form  the  nourishment  of  man. 

Even  the  mother's  milk,  the  simplest  and  most  natural 
food  of  the  child,  owes  its  existence  only  to  the  fact  that 
the  mother  has  eaten  vegetable  and  animal  matter.  This 
food,  prepared  for  the  mother  by  nature,  has  been  changed 
into  the  body  of  the  same  ;  and  partly,  also,  it  has  become 
the  milk  destined  to  nourish  the  child. 

Hence  it  is  evident  that  mother's  milk  consists  of  oxy- 
gen, nitrogen,  hydrogen,  carbon,  and  a  small  portion  of 
other  chemical  primary  elements.  But  these  substances 
when  appearing  in  the  shape  of  milk,  are  combined  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  form  ready-made  food  ;  as  such  they  con- 
stitute, as  stated  above,  caseine,  butyrine,  sugar  of  milk, 
salt,  and  water. 

The  next  questions  are :  "  What  do  these  elements  of 
food  perform  when  in  the  child's  body  ?  What  becomes  of 
these  substances  after  they  have  been  eaten  by  the  child  ? 
How  are  they  changed  during  the  time  of  their  stay  in  the 
body  ?  And  in  what  condition  do  they  leave  the  child's 
body,  and  how  do  they  force  him  to  desire  food  again  ?" 

These  questions  properly  belong  to  the  chapter  on  "  Nu- 
trition," where  they  will  be  answered  in  their  turn.  After- 
wards, we  must  be  permitted  to  turn  our  attention  to  a 
further  question,  viz.,  "What  articles  of  food  are  the 
most  advantageous  to  man  from  the  time  he  is  weaned, 
or  the  time,  he  takes  from  among  vegetable  and  animal 
matter  the  same  substances  for  food,  that  are  contained  in 
the  mother's  milk  ?" 

In  order  to  arrive  at  the  answers  to  all  these  questions, 
we  were  obliged  to  first  prepare  the  ground  a  little  This 


HOW  NATURE  PREPARES  OUR  FOOD.  31 

was  a  gain  on  our  part,  for  now  we  shall  attain  the  end  in 
a  shorter  time  than  would  have  been  possible  otherwise. 
We  trust  that  we  may  give  our  reader  a  correct  idea  of 
the  subject,  if  he  will  but  come  to  our  aid  with  his  most 
earnest  attention  and  reflection  ;  these  are  needed  here  the 
more,  as  we  have  to  treat  a  difficult  subject  in  a  very  short 
space.  * 


CHAPTEE  V. 

WHAT  BECOMES  OF  THE  MOTHER'S  MILK  AFTER  IT  HAS 
ENTERED  THE  BODY  OF  THE  CHILD  ? 

WHEN  the  child  has  freed  itself  from  the  body  of  its. 
mother,  it  consists  of  blood,  flesh,  and  bones,  which  hereto- 
fore were  formed  and  nourished  by  the  blood  of  the 
mother. 

As  soon,  however,  as  the  child  is  born,  it  ceases  to  be 
nourished  in  this  manner.  It  ceases,  also,  to  secrete  through 
its  mother,  substances  which  are  useless  to  it.  The  child 
now  begins  to  breathe  for  itself,  and  by  its  breath  secretes 
carbon  in  the  form  of  carbonic  acid.  Its  skin  begins  to 
perspire,  and  secretes  chiefly  hydrogen  and  oxygen  in  the 
shape  of  water  or  vapor  ;  by  the  urine,  finally,  it  secretes 
nitrogen.  These  substances — carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen, 
nitrogen — before  their  secretion,  constituted  vital  parts  of 
the  child's  body;  now,  however,  they  are  wasted,  and  for 
this  reason  must  be  thrown  off. 

It  is  evident  that  the  child  wants  compensation  for  this 
loss.  This  is  given  by  the  mother's  milk;  for  it  contains 
chiefly  these  same  substances. 

But  how  is  this  effected  ? 

The  milk  passes  from  the  child's  mouth  through  the  gul- 
let into  the  stomach.  While  yet  in  the  mouth,  the  milk  is 
mixed  with  a  certain  liquid  called  saliva.  This  saliva  pos- 
sesses the  quality  of  preparing  the  milk  for  the  necessary 
change  which  will  take  place,  when  it  reaches  the  child's 
stomach.  The  principal  work,  however,  is  carried  on  in 
the  stomach  itself.  Its  sides  secrete  a  liquid  called  "  gas- 

(32) 


WHAT    BECOMES    OF   THE   MOTHER'S    MILK.  33 

trie  juice,"  whose  business  it  is,  to  transform  into  a  pulp 
milk,  and  also  solid  food,  provided  the  latter  be  well  mas- 
ticated and  moistened. 

Science  has  taught  us  to  prepare  gastric  juice  artificially. 
The  process  of  digestion,  that  is,  the  transformation  of 
solid  food — the  crust  of  bread,  meat,  etc. — into  a  pulp,  may 
nowadays  be  observed  in  a  glass  filled  with  warm,  arti- 
ficial, gastric  juice. 

After  the  digestion  is  completed,  the  lower  opening  of 
the  stomach,  which  leads  into  the  duodenum,  and  which, 
during  the  process  of  digestion,  was  closed  by  a  muscle, 
opens  itself.  The  pulp,  now  called  "  chyme,''  flows  into  the 
continuation  of  the  stomach — the  "  alimentary  canal"  or 
"  duodenum/5  This  is  but  a  long  bag  with  many  folds  and 
windings. 

The  chyme  is  here  mixed  again  with  a  liquid  called  "  in- 
testinal juice;"  it  has  the  quality  of  continuing  digestion 
until  the  chyme  separates  into  two  parts;  one  of  them,  a 
milky  fluid  called  "  chyle,"  contains  the  substance  which 
feeds  the  body.  The  other  is  the  solid  parts  not  adapted 
to  nutrition;  they  are  thrown  out  by  the  lower  opening  of 
the  ''rectum." 

But  how  is  this  nutritive  part,  the  chyle,  conveyed  into 
the  various  parts  of  the  body  ? 

The  intestinal  canal  is  filled  with  extremely  small  ves- 
sels called  "lacteal  absorbents."  These  vessels  absorb  the 
chyle.  This  absorption,  on  account  of  the  great  length  of 
the  intestinal  canal — in  adults  it  is  nearly  thirty  feet  long 
— is,  in  a  healthy  body,  accomplished  very  thoroughly 
The  real  nutriment  for  the  body  is  now  contained  in  the 
lacteal  absorbents,  an  infinite  number  of  small  tubes. 

All  these  small  vessels,  however,  converge  towards  the 
lower  part  of  the  spinal  column,  and  uniting,  form  a  vessel 
which  ascends  into  the  chest;  here  it  empties  into  a  large 
blood-vessel,  the  blood  of  which  is  on  its  way  to  the  heart. 


34  NUTRITION. 

Thrown  out  of  the  heart  in  another  direction,  the  blood  is 
pushed  through  the  whole  body. 

Thus  the  food,  after  having  been  transformed  into  a 
juice  very  similar  to  the  blood,  joins  the  blood  after  a  cir- 
cuitous journey,  and  is  finally  mixed  with,  or,  more  prop- 
erly, changed  into,  blood. 


CHAPTEE  VI. 

HOW  THE  BLOOD  BECOMES  THE  VITAL,  PART  OF  THE 
BODY. 

ONE  would  be  well  justified  in  calling  the  blood  "  man's 
body  in  a  liquid  state."  For  the  blood  is  destined  to  become 
the  living  solid  body  of  man. 

People  were  astonished,  when  Liebig,  the  great  naturalist, 
called  blood  the  "liquid  flesh;"  we  are  correct  even  in 
going  further  and  calling  the  blood  "  man's  body  in  a  liquid 
state."  From  blood  are  prepared  not  only  muscles  and 
flesh,  but  also  bones,  brain,  fat,  teeth,  eyes,  veins,  carti- 
lages, nerves,  tendons,  and  even  hair. 

It  is  utterly  wrong  for  anybody  to  suppose,  that  the  con- 
stituents of  all  these  parts  are  dissolved  in  the  blood,  say 
as  sugar  is  dissolved  in  water.  By  no  means.  Water  is 
something  quite  different  from  the  sugar  dissolved  in  it; 
while  the  blood  is  itself  the  material  from  which  all  the 
solid  parts  of  the  body  are  formed. 

The  blood  is  received  into  the  heart,  and  the  heart,  like 
a  pump,  forces  it  into  the  lungs.  There  it  absorbs  in  a 
remarkable  manner  the  oxygen  of  the  air  which  comes  into 
the  lungs  by  breathing.  This  blood,  saturated  now  with 
ox3rgen,  is  then  recalled  to  another  part  of  the  heart  by  an 
expansive  movement  of  that  organ. 

This  part  of  the  heart  contracts  again  and  impels  the 
oxygenated  blood  into  the  whole  body  by  means  of  arte- 
ries, which  branch  out  more  and  more,  and  become  smaller 
and  smaller,  until  at  last  they  are  no  longer  visible  to  the 
naked  eye.  In  this  manner  the  blood  penetrates  all  parts 

(35) 


36  NUTRITION. 

of  the  body,  and  returns  to  the  heart  by  means  of  similar 
thread-like  veins,  which  gradually  join  and  form  larger 
veins.  Having  reached  the  heart,  it  is  again  forced  into 
the  lungs,  and  absorbs  there  more  oxygen,  returns  to  the 
heart,  and  -is  again  circulated  through  the  whole  system. 
^  During  this  double  circulation  of  the  blood  from  the 
heart  to  the  lungs  and  back,  and  then  from  the  heart  to  all 
parts  of  the  body  and  back  again — during  all  this,the  change 
of  particles,  so  remarkable  in 'itself,  is  constantly  going 
on:  the  exchange  by  which  the  useless  and  wasted  matter 
are  secreted  and  new  substances  distributed.  This  fact  is 
wonderful,  and  its  cause  not  yet  fully  explained  by  sci- 
ence; but  so  much  is  certain,  that  the  blood  when  being 
conveyed  to  all  parts  of  the  human  body,  deposits  whatever 
at  the  time  may  be  needed  there  for  the  renewal  of  that 
part. 

Thus  the  blood  that  has  been  formed  in  the  child  from 
the  mother's  milk,  contains  phosphorus,  oxygen,  and  cal- 
cium. These  substances,  during  the  circulation  of  the 
blood,  are  deposited  in  the  bones,  and  form  "  phosphate  of 
lime,"  the  principal  element  in  the  bone.  In  the  same 
manner  fluor  and  calcium  are  given  to  the  teeth.  The 
muscles,  or  flesh,  also  receive  their  ingredients  from  the 
blood;  so  do  the  nerves,  veins,  membranes,  brain,  and 
nails;  also  the  inner  organs,  such  as  the  heart,  lungs, 
liver,  kidneys,  intestines,  and  stomach. 

They  all,  however,  in  return  give  to  the  blood  their 
waste  particles,  which  it  carries  to  that  part  of  the  human 
body  where  they  may  be  secreted. 

If  any  member  of  the  body  is  so  bound,  that  the  blood 
cannot  circulate,  it  must  decay;  for  the  life  of  the  body 
consists  in  its  constant  change  and  transformation,  in  the 
continual  exchange  of  fresh  substances  for  waste  ones. 
But  this  vital  exchange  is  only  kept  up  by  the  constant 
circulation  of  the  blood,  which,  while  it  decreases  by  being 


BLOOD   THE   VITAL   PAET   OF  THE   BODY.  37 

transformed  into  vital  parts  of  the  body,  is  always  formed 
anew  by  our  daily  food. 

Food  is  therefore  very  justly  called  "  Means  of  Exist- 
ence," and  the  blood  may  rightly  be  called  the  "  Juice  of 
Life." 


CHAPTEE   VII* 

CIRCULATION   OF  MATTER. 

THUS  we  have  seen  that  the  human  body  is  vital  blood, 
transformed  and  solidified.  Now,  blood  is  food  trans- 
formed ;  food  consists  of  primary  elements  prepared  and 
changed  by  nature ;  hence,  man  himself  is  primary  matter 
transformed  and  vivified. 

But  the  human  race  being-  thousands  and  thousands 
of  years  old,  and  there  being  upon  the  earth  besides  man 
the  whole  of  the  animal  kingdom,  developing,  preserving, 
and  nourishing  itself  bodily  like  man;  the  question  arises: 
Whence  do  they  all  come,  these  primary  elements  that  are 
obliged  forever  to  undergo  transformation  before  they  can 
become  animated  vital  matter  ?  Do  these  primary  elements 
not  incessantly  decrease  during  the  long  process  of  their 
being  changed  into  plants  and  consumed  by  man  and 
animal,  in  order  to  form  human  and  animal  bodies  after- 
wards ? 

The  answer  to  this  interesting  question  has  been  given 
already.  The  human  body  is  not  framed  or  created  anew 
at  every  moment  by  food ;  but  it  is  at  every  moment,  that 
small  particles  of  the  human  body  die.  These  particles 
are  returned  to  mother  earth  from  which  they  sprang,  thus 
going  back  to  the  primary  elements. 

It  is  not  only  those  who  are  dead,  that  render  to  the  earth 
what  belongs  to  her,  that  return  to  nature  what  she  gave 
them;  but  in  a  far  greater  degree  it  is  the  living,  that  pay 
their  debt  to  nature. 

Man's  body  is  not  his  own;  nature  has  lent  it  to  him  but  for 

(38) 


CIRCULATION    OF   MATTER.  39 

a  short  term  of  service ;  then  nature  wrests  her  loan  back 
from  him.  Thus  must  man,  spite  all  his  pride,  accept  her 
never-ceasing  offer  ;  daily  he  must  borrow  and  daily  he 
must  repay  in  part,  until  the  moment  comes  when  he 
borrows  for  the  last  time,  the  moment  he  expires;  and 
dying  he  leaves  it  to  those  around  his  bedside,  to  pay  his 
last  debt  to  earth. 

Is  it  not  wonderful  ?  His  own  blood  is  the  messenger 
that  daily  carries  new  loans  to  him,  and,  in  the  shape  of 
transformed  food,  of  transformed  elements  of  nature,  equips 
his  body.  But  his  own  blood  is  at  the  same  time  also 
his  cashier,  who,  having  rendered  him  service,  takes  the 
loan  away,  by  secreting  from  the  body  elements  that  are 
thus  returned  to  nature. 

With  every  revolution  of  the  blood  the  body  is  supplied 
with  transformed  food,  which  is  immediately  changed  into 
vital  parts  of  the  body;  with  every  return  of  the  blood  waste 
matter  is  carried  off  and  deposited,  where  it  may  be  thrown 
out. 

The  blood  carries  waste  matter  to  the  kidneys  that  they 
may  send  out  of  the  body,  in  the  shape  of  urine,  waste 
nitrogen,  mixed  with  a  part  of  the  phosphate  of  lime,  that 
served  to  form  bones  and  teeth,  but  is  now  useless.  The 
blood,  besides,  secretes  perspiration  through  the  skin. 
This  is  a  liquid  containing  water,  hence  oxygen  and 
hydrogen;  but  is  moreover  mixed  with  various  other  waste 
substances  of  the  body,  as  for  example,  carbonic  acid> 
nitrogen  and  fat.  Chiefly,  however,  the  blood  is  employed 
in  carrying  waste  carbon  to  the  lungs,  so  that  they  may,  by 
the  process  of  respiration,  exhale  carbonic  acid,  a  gas 
which  would  prove  of  deadly  effect  if  remaining  in  the 
lungs  too  long,  or  if  inhaled. 

The  quantity  of  man's  secretion  per  day  is  by  no  means 
small.  It  amounts  to  the  fourteenth  part  of  his  own 
weight:  nay,  more — the  weight  of  his  perspiration  alone, 


40  NUTRITION. 

secreted  partly  by  evaporation  in  the  shape  of  gas,  partly 
as  a  liquid  in  drops,  amounts  during  twenty-four  hours  to 
nearly  two  pounds. 

Secreted  substances  have  lost  all  the  qualities  of  trans- 
formed and  vital  matter.  They  return  to  the  primary 
elements  and  serve  as  food  principally  to  plants,  which 
before  had  offered  those  very  same  substances  as  food 
to  man. 

It  is  in  this  manner  that  the  great  circulation  of  matter 
in  nature  takes  place.  From  the  lifeless  primary  elements 
to  the  plant;  from  the  plant,  in  the  shape  of  food,  to  animal 
and  man  ;  from  these,  as  waste  substances,  back  again  to 
the  primary  elements,  there  to  begin  anew  a  circulation, 
by  means  of  which  inanimate  elements  are  reanimated, 
and  vital  elements  made  lifeless  again;  that  is,  life  changed 
again  into  death. 

And  it  is  in  this  circulation  that  our  "  Nutrition,"  or, 
more  precisely,  the  "  Change  of  Matter  in  Man,"  consists, 
an  important  link  in  the  life-preserving  chain  of  nature. 


CHAPTEE   VIII. 

FOOD. 

FROM  what  has  been  said,  it  must  appear  evident  that 
only  such  dishes  make  good  food  as  contain  the  same  con- 
stituents as  the  blood. 

To  have  these  constituents,  food  must  contain  salt,  fat, 
and  sugar  ;  all  these  ingredients  must,  of  course,  be  in  a 
certain  proportion. 

That  water  is  essential  for  the  support  and  renewal  of 
the  body  is  clear  to  every  one.  The  flesh  we  eat,  contains 
nearly  eighty  per  cent,  of  water,  and  yet  a  man  must  die, 
if  he  were  to  eat  nothing  but  meat  and  to  have  no  water, 
for  the  reason  that  the  eighty  per  cent,  of  water  he  takes 
in  would  by  no  means  be  sufficient  to  form  all  the  liquids 
necessary  for  the  human  body. 

The  albumen  that  we  eat,  forms  in  the  blood  chiefly  the 
substances  composing  the  muscular  part  of  the  flesh.  But 
it  is  an  error  to  suppose,  that  therefore  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  to  eat  eggs — the  white  of  an  egg  is  nearly  pure 
albumen — because  the  caseine  (cheese)  contains  precisely 
the  same  ingredients  as  the  albumen  ;  for  we  have  seen 
before,  and  our  readers  are  doubtless  aware  of  it,  that  the 
mother's  milk  contains  caseine,  while  it  is  entirely  free  of 
albumen.  Hence,  he  who  eates  plenty  of  caseine,  as  do 
shepherds  in  Switzerland,  for  example,  scarcely  needs  any 
meat.  But  besides  caseine  there  is  another  element,  viz., 
the  vegetable  albumen  called  gluten,  which  contains  al- 
buminous matter ;  so  do  all  glutinous  plants.  Peas, 

(41) 


42  NUTRITION. 

beans,  and  lentils  in  particular  form  food  productive  of 
flesh. 

The  salts  that  must  be  given  to  the  blood,  do  not  only 
consist  in  the  common  kitchen-salt.  By  the  expression 
"  Salts n  are  meant  various  combinations  of  substances 
which  are  usually  not  considered  articles  of  food,  for  ex- 
ample, the  combinations  of  phosphorus,  iron,  etc.,  but  are 
not  visible  to  the  eye.  They  help  to  form  bones,  teeth, 
nails,  cartilages,  and  hair. 

The  fat  which  we  take,  appears  to  many  people  to  be  a 
very  important  part  of  our  food,  and  they  believe  that  by 
eating  much  fat,  one  may  become  fat.  But  this  is  not 
correct.  Ferocious  animals  that  live  only  on  meat  and 
fat,  do  not  get  fat ;  while  herbivorous  animals  fatten  ex- 
cessively, if  provided  with  good  mast,  consisting  of  course 
but  of  plants.  Yet  fat  is,  for  all  this,  by  no  means  super- 
fluous to  our  body.  Man  needs  it,  because  it  is  the  fat 
which  chiefly  supports  his  respiration.  But  the  fat 
that  is  needed  for  the  body,  is  formed  by  man  himself  ;  so 
that  but  little  of  it  need  be  eaten,  and  that  little  only  for 
the  purpose  of  helping  to  form  new  fat  from  sugar. 

It  is  therefore  best  to  consider  fat  and  sugar  as  food  be- 
longing together;  for  the  fat  is  formed  in  the  body  from 
sugar,  and  the  small  quantity  of  fat  which  we  take  daily 
is  only  to  promote  the  transformation  of  sugar  into  fat. 

But  let  no  one  believe  that  one  must  needs  actually  eat 
sugar  ;  no,  every  food  that  contains  starch  supplies  the 
place  of  sugar  very  well,  as  starch  is  changed,  when  in  the 
body,  first  to  sugar  and  then  to  fat.  The  potato  contains 
starch  and  serves  its  purpose  well;  it  is  necessary,  how- 
ever, to  put  butter  with  it  in  order  that  the  starch  and 
sugar  formed  from  the  potato  in  the  stomach,  may  be 
easily  converted  into  fat. 

An  excellent  article  of  food  is  bread,  for  it  contains 
nearly  all  the  elements  of  nutrition.  It  contains  vegetable 


FOOD.  43 

albumen,  and  therefore  is  converted  into  flesh.  It  has 
nearly  all  the  salts  that  are  essential  to  the  body  ;  more- 
over, it  contains  starch  from  which  fat  is  produced.  There- 
fore, by  the  mere  addition  of  a  little  butter  in  order  to  make 
the  formation  of  fat  easier,  and  by  drinking  water  besides, 
the  human  body  is  able  to  exist.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
potato,  if  taken  alone,  is  an  insufficient  means  of  nutrition. 
Neither  would  meat  or  albumen,  if  taken  alone,  be  able  to 
preserve  life. 

Various  experiments  have  been  tried  with  animals,  and 
a  great  deal  of  information  about  the  best  means  of  feed- 
ing the  body  has  been  collected.  In  order  to  investigate 
the  effect  of  the  nutritive  qualities  of  food,  inquiries  have 
been  made  especially  at  military  establishments,  such  as 
barracks,  etc. 


CHAPTEE    IX. 

ABOUT  NOURISHMENT. 

IN  obedience  to  the  demands  of  modern  science,  numer- 
ous experiments  about  nutrition  have  been  made,  in  regard 
to  digestion  as  well  as  to  the  effects  of  hunger  and  of  va- 
rious elements  of  food. 

As  to  digestion,  the  most  excellent  observations  were 
made  on  men  afflicted  with  a  fistula  in  the  abdomen,  that 
is,  a  wound  penetrating  to  the  stomach.  By  means  of  this 
wound,  it  was  ascertained  very  minutely  how  long  it  took 
to  digest  food,  and  what  kind  of  transformation  it  under- 
went. From  this  and  other  experiments  it  appeared,  that 
the  time  for  digestion,  though  varying  greatly  with  the 
various  articles  of  food,  lasts  from  one  and  one-half  to  five 
and  one-half  hours.  Those  most  quickly  digested  are: 
soft  sweet  apples,  beaten  eggs,  and  cooked  brain.  To 
digest  boiled  milk,  raw  eggs,  soft  sour  apples,  roasted 
beef,  liver,  two  hours  were  required.  Cooked  spinal  mar- 
row, raw  cabbage,  fresh  milk,  roasted  beef,  oysters,  soft- 
boiled  eggs,  and  raw  ham,  took  nearly  three  hours.  Wheat 
bread,  old  cheese,  potatoes  were  digested  in  nearly  three 
and  one-half  hours;  pork,  boiled  cabbage,  lamb's  fat,  not 
before  five  hours. 

The  experiments  about  the  effects  produced  by  hunger 
were  tried  only  on  animals.  The  results  were  that 
during  the  state  of  starvation  three-fourths  of  the  blood 
disappeared ;  the  fat  was  almost  entirely  consumed ;  the  flesh 
disappeared  one-half;  even  the  skin  diminished  one-third, 
and  the  bones  lost  about  one-sixth  of  their  weight.  The  least 

(44) 


ABOUT    NOURISHMENT.  45 

decrease  was  found  to  be  in  the  nerves,  a  striking  proof 
that  nerves  possess  a  great  power  of  self-preservation, 
provided  there  be  but  a  minimum  of  matter  to  feed  them. 
From  numerous  experiments  the  conclusion  was  drawn, 
that  an  adult  weighing  about  one  hundred  and  thirty 
pounds  must  die  if  he  were  to  lose,  say  fifty  pounds,  by 
starvation. 

With  regard  to  the  effects  of  the  Various  articles  of  food, 
experiments  applied  to  dogs  have  shown  that  they  can 
live  on  bones  for  a  long  time ;  but  that  they  die  if  fed  on 
sugar  only,  and  when  examined  after  death,  no  trace  of 
any  fat  is  to  be  found. 

Animals  fed  on  substances  that  contained  no  phosphorus 
and  lime  became  fat;  but  they  died  for  want  of  the  proper 
nourishment  for  their  bones.  Animals  died  also  when 
nourished  only  with  pure  albumen  or  pure  caseine.  The 
most  remarkable  fact  in  this  connection  is,  that  they  per- 
ished in  the  same  length  of  time  in  which  they  would  have 
died,  if  they  had  taken  no  food  whatever. 

Experiments  tried  on  man  have  shown  that  it  is  injuri- 
ous to  eat  uniform  food.  A  constant  change  in  our  food 
is  extremely  nourishing  and  healthy.  This  is  an  experi- 
ence made  in  prisons  and  barracks ;  changes  of  food  arc 
made  there  every  day  during  the  week,  so  that  each  day 
they  have  a  different  dinner.  Once,  a  physician  in  Eng- 
land wished  to  try  the  effects  of  uniform  food  on  himself. 
He  took  nothing  but  bread  and  water  for  forty-five  days ; 
in  consequence  of  this  he  decreased  eight  pounds.  Then 
he  ate  for  four  weeks  but  bread  and  sugar,  then  bread  and 
oil  three  weeks;  but  finally  he  succumbed  under  his  exper- 
iments, and  died,  after  having  experimented  thus  for 
eight  months. 

We  must  not,  therefore,  call  it  daintiness  when  we  feel 
an  appetite  for  more  variety  of  food,  or  if  we  soon  get 
tired  of  uniform  meals:  a  constant  change  in  this  respect 


46  NUTRITION. 

is  necessary.  Experiments  have  shown  that  rabbits  con- 
tinue their  health,  if  alternately  they  receive  one  day  pota- 
toes, the  next  day  barley;  but  if  they  receive  exclusively 
potatoes  or  barley,  they  soon  die. 

In  conclusion,  we  will  mention  a  few  articles  of  food  and 
their  qualities.  Among  grains,  wheat  is  known  to  be  the 
most  nutritive,  and  wheat  bread  and  meat  taken  together 
is  always  good,  wholesome  food.  Rice  produces  fat,  but 
if  taken  by  itself,  it  is  not  worth  much,  since  it  is  nourish- 
ing only  if  eaten  with  butter,  or  fat,  and  a  little  meat. 
Potato  is  a  cheap,  and  yet  an  expensive  food;  for  it  con- 
tains very  little  nutriment.  In  order  to  be  of  benefit 
it  must  be  eaten  in  great  quantity ;  besides,  it  is  necessary 
to  season  it  with  salt,  butter,  or  fat,  as  otherwise  it  would 
be  totally  useless.  A  good  diet  is  peas,  beans,  and  lentils; 
but  their  hulls  are  indigestible,  and  must  be  removed. 

In  general,  beverages  are  not  counted  among  articles 
of  food;  and  kitchen-salt  is  commonly  believed  to  be  but  a 
matter  of  taste;  but  this  is  a  great  mistake.  Coffee  and 
tea,  too,  are  nourishing  in  their  way;  good  beer  is  equal  to 
half  a  dinner,  and  as  to  salt,  a  frequent  relish  of  the  same 
is  an  excellent  means  of  nutrition. 

Cheap  coffee,  cheap  beer,  and  cheap  salt  are  therefore  a 
great  benefit  to  the  people. 


PART  1Y. 
LIGHT  AND  DISTANCE. 


CHAPTEK   I. 

SOMETHING-  ABOUT    ILLUMINATION. 

FROM  time  to  time  we  hear  of  plans  to  illuminate  whole 
cities  by  a  great  light  from  a  single  point.  The  credulity 
of  the  newspaper  public  about  affairs  belonging  to  Physics 
is  so  great,  that  we  are  not  surprised  if  such  plans  are 
spoken  of  as  practicable  ;  though,  indeed,  one  needs  but 
cast  a  glance  of  reflection  on  them,  to  be  at  once  convinced 
of  their  impracticability. 

The  impracticability  does  not  consist  so  much  in  this,  that 
no  such  intense  light  can  be  made  artificially,  as  in  the  cir- 
cumstance that  the  illuminating  power  of  light  decreases 
enormously  as  we  recede  from  it. 

In  order  to  explain  this  to  our  readers,  let  us  suppose 
that  on  some  high  point  in  New  York  city,  say  Trinity- 
church  steeple,  an  intensely  brilliant  light  be  placed,  as 
bright  as  can  be  produced  by  gases  or  electricity.  We 
shall  see,  presently,  how  the  remoter  streets  in  New  York 
would  be  illuminated. 

For  the  sake  of  clearness,  let  us  imagine  for  a  moment, 
that  at  a  square's  distance  from  Trinity  church  there  is  a 
street,  intersecting  Broadway  at  right  angles.  We  will 
call  it "  A  "  street.  At  a  square's  distance  from  "  A  "  street 
let  us  imagine  another  street  running  parallel  to  it,  which 
we  will  call  "B"  street;  and  again,  at  a  square's  distance, 
a  street  parallel  to  "  B  "  street,  called  "  C  "  street ;  thus  let  us 
imagine  seven  streets  in  all — from  "A"  to  "  G" — running 
parallel,  each  at  a  square's  distance  from  the  other,  and  in- 
tersecting Broadway  at  right  angles.  Besides  this,  let  us 

(49) 


50  LIGHT    AND    DISTANCE. 

suppose  there  is  a  street  called  "X"  street,  running  par- 
allel with  Broadway  and  at  a  square's  distance  from  it ; 
then  we  shall  have  seven  squares,  which  are  to  be  illumi- 
nated by  one  great  light. 

It  is  well  known  that  light  decreases  in  intensity  the  fur- 
ther we  recede  from  it;  but  this  intensity  decreases  in  a  pe- 
culiar proportion.  In  order  to  understand  this  proportion  we 
must  pause  a  moment,  for  it  is  something  not  easily  com- 
prehended. We  hope,  however,  to  present  it  in  such  a 
shape,  that  the  attentive  reader  will  find  no  difficulty  in 
grasping  a  great  law  of  nature,  which,  moreover,  is  of  the 
greatest  moment  for  a  multitude  of  cases. 

Physics  teach  us,  by  calculation  and  experiments,  the 
following  : 

If  a  light  illuminates  a  certain  space,  its  intensity  at 
twice  the  distance  is  not  twice  as  feeble,  but  two  times  two, 
equal  four  times,  as  feeble.  At  three  times  the  distance  it 
does  not  shine  three  times  as  feeble,  but  three  times  three, 
that  is  nine  times.  In  scientific  language  this  is  expressed 
thus:  "The  intensity  of  light  decreases  in  the  ratio  of  the 
square  of  the  distance  from  its  source." 

Let  us  now  try  to  apply  this  to  our  example. 

We  will  take  it  for  granted  that  the  great  light  on  Trin- 
ity steeple  shines  so  bright,  that  one  is  just  able  to  read 
these  pages  at  a  square's  distance,  viz.,  on  "  A  "  street. 

On  "  B  "  street  it  will  be  much  darker  than  on  "A"  street; 
it  will  be  precisely  four  times  darker,  because  "  B ''  street  is 
twice  the  distance  from  Trinity  church,  and  2X2  =  4. 
Hence,  if  we  wish  to  read  this  on  "  B  "  street,  our  letters 
must  cover  four  times  the  space  they  do  now. 

"  C  "  street  is  three  times  as  far  from  the  light  as  "A" 
street ;  hence  it  will  be  nine  times  darker  there,  for 
3  X  3  =  9.  This  page  in  order  to  be  readable  there,  would 
then  have  to  cover  nine  times  the  space  it  occupies  now. 

The  next  street,  being  four  times  as  remote  from  the 


SOMETHING    ABOUT    ILLUMINATION.  51 

light  as  "A"  street,  our  letters,  according  to  the  rule  given 
above,  would  have  to  cover  sixteen  times  the  present  space, 
for  it  is  sixteen  times  darker  there  than  on  "A"  street. 

"  E  "  street,  which  lies  at  five  times  the  distance  from  the 
light,  will  be  twenty-five  times  darker,  for  5  X  5  =  25. 
"  F  "  street,  which  is  six  times  the  distance,  we  shall  find 
thirty-six  times  darker;  and,  lastly,  "  G- n  street,  seven  times 
the  distance  from  the  light,  will  be  forty-nine  times  darker 
than  "A"  street,  because  1  X  ^  —  ^9.  The  letters  of  a  piece 
of  writing,  in  order  to  be  legible  there,  must  cover  forty- 
nine  times  the  surface  that  our  letters  cover  now. 

But  the  reader  will  exclaim:  "  This  evil  can  be  remedied. 
We  need  but  place  forty-nine  lights  on  Trinity  steeple; 
there  will  then  be.  sufficient  light  on  "  G  "  street  for  any  news- 
paper to  be  read."  Our  friend  will  easily  perceive,  how- 
ever, that  it  is  more  judicious  to  distribute  forty-nine  lights 
in  different  places  on  Broadway,  than  to  put  them  all  on 
one  spot. 

This  is  sufficient  to  convince  any  one  that  we  may  be 
able  to  illuminate  large  public  places  with  one  light,  but 
not  the  streets  of  a  city,  and  still  less  whole  cities. 


CHAPTEE   II. 

ILLUMINATION  OF  THE  PLANETS  BY  THE  SOT. 

IT  was  demonstrated  above,  that  it  is  impossible  to  illu- 
minate large  distances  by  a  single  light.  Yet  we  must 
acknowledge  that  nature  herself  does  this,  and  that  the 
sun  is  the  only  light  which  shines  throughout  the  solar 
system;  for  the  light  which  is  seen  in  the  planets  is  but 
light  received  and  reflected  from  the  sun. 

This  is  sufficient  reason  for  us  to  believe,  that  there  are 
not  on  every  planet  creatures  as  we  see  them  on  our  earth; 
but  that,  on  the  contrary,  each  celestial  body  may  be  in- 
habited by  creatures  organized  according  to  the  distance 
of  the  planet  from  the  sun;  that  is,  adapted  to  the  degree 
of  light  produced  there  by  the  sun. 

For  the  natural  sciences  teach  us,  that  solar  light  is 
subject  to  the  same  laws  as  our  artificial  light:  it  decreases 
as  the  distance  increases.  The  planets  more  remote  from 
the  sun  are  illuminated  less  than  those  nearer  to  it.  The 
ratio  in  which  this  light  decreases,  is  precisely  the  same  as 
that  of  the  terrestrial  light  illustrated  above,  viz.,  accord- 
ing to  the  square  of  the  distance.  In  other  words,  when 
the  distance  is  double,  the  intensity  of  the  light  is  one-fourth 
as  great;  when  three  times,  one-ninth  as  great;  when  four 
times  more  remote,  one-sixteenth  as  strong,  etc. ;  in  short, 
at  every  distance  as  much  weaker  as  the  distance  multi- 
plied by  itself. 

Presently  we  shall  see  that  the  planets  are  illuminated  . 
in  inverse  proportion  to  their  distance  from  the  sun.    From 
this  alone  we  come  to  the  conclusion,  that  on  every  planet 

(52) 


ILLUMINATION    OF   THE    PLANETS   BY   THE    SUN.  53 

the  living  beings  must  necessarily  be  differently  consti- 
tuted. 

The  name  of  the  planet  nearest  to  the  sun  is  Mercury.  It 
is  about  two  and  a  half  times  nearer  to  the  sun  than  our 
earth,  therefore  it  receives  nearly  seven  times  as  much 
light.  We  can  scarcely  conceive  such  an  intensity  of  light 
and  all  the  consequences  resulting  from  it.  If  instead  of 
one  sun  we  should  happen  to  have  three,  there  is  no  doubt 
that  we  should  go  blind;  but  seven  suns,  that  is,  seven 
times  the  light  of  our  brightest  days,  we  could  not  endure, 
even  if  our  eyes  were  closed;  the  more  so,  as  our  eyelids, 
even  when  firmly  closed,  do  not  protect  us  from  the  sun's 
light  entirely.  This  is  a  proof  of  our  assertion,  that  the 
living  beings  on  the  planet  Mercury  must  be  differently 
organized  from  us. 

Venus,  the  third  planet,  is  one  and  a  third  times  nearer 
to  the  sun  than  we  are.  The  light  on  that  planet,  there- 
fore, is  nearly  twice  as  bright  as  on  ours.  But  inasmuch 
as  even  this  would  be  unbearable  for  us,  the  creatures  on 
this  planet  must  likewise  be  different  from  us. 

The  third  planet  is  the  earth  we  inhabit.  The  intensity 
of  the  sunlight  in  bright  summer  days  is  well  known  to  us 
from  experience,  although  no  one  has  as  yet  been  success- 
ful in  measuring  its  degree  as  precisely  as  has  been  done 
with  heat  by  the  thermometer.  It  is  true  that  in  modern 
times  a  certain  Mr.  Schell,  in  Berlin,  proposed  to  measure 
light  accurately,  in  a  way  that  elicited  the  approbation  of 
naturalists,  especially  of  Alexander  von  Humboldt.  How- 
ever, the  experiments  proposed  have  not  yet  been  properly 
carried  out,  though  they  are  very  useful  to  photographists. 
Therefore  we  do  not  know,  up  to  the  present  time,  whether 
there  is  any  difference  in  the  light  of  two  cloudless  sum- 
mer days;  just  as  little  are  we  able  to  determine  how  much 
the  moon's  light  is  weaker  than  the  sun's. 

The  fourth  planet's  name  is  Mars;  its  distance  from  the 


54  LIGHT    AND    DISTANCE. 

sun  is  one  and  a  half  times  our  distance  from  the  sun.  There 
the  sun's  light  is  about  half  as  strong-  as  with  us.  Now, 
although  we  often  may  have  days  which  are  half  as  bright 
as  others,  it  is  yet  very  doubtful  whether  we  could  live  on 
Mars ;  for  light  does  not  act  upon  our  eyes  only,  but  on  our 
whole  body  and  its  health.  It  is  likely  that  the  very  want 
of  light  there  would  prove  fatal  to  us. 

The  twenty-four  newly  discovered  planets  have  days 
that  are  nearly  six  times  darker  than  ours.  The  daylight 
on  these  planets  is  probably  as  it  was  with  TIS  during  the 
great  eclipse  of  the  sun  in  July,  1851.  This  light  was 
very  interesting  for  a  few  minutes,  but  if  it  were  to  con- 
tinue it  would  certainly  make  us  melancholy. 

Far  worse  yet  fare  the  remoter  planets.  On  the  planet 
Jupiter  it  is  as  much  as  thirty  times  darker  than  with  us. 
On  Saturn,  eighty  times.  On  Uranus,  even  three  hundred 
times;  and  upon  the  last  of  the  planets,  Neptune,  discov- 
ered in  1845,  light  is  nine  hundred  times  more  feeble  than 
upon  our  globe. 

Although  it  is  true  that  all  of  the  remoter  planets  have 
many  moons  or  satellites,  yet  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that 
the  moons  themselves  are  but  very  feebly  illuminated; 
that  their  light  benefits  during  the  night  only,  and  even 
then  only  lovers  and  night  revellers. 


PART  V. 
THE  WONDERS  OF  ASTRONOMY. 


CHAP  TEE    I. 

A  WONDERFUL  DISCOVERY. 

MANY  people  are  greatly  surprised,  that  when  a  new 
planet  is  discovered — and  within  late  years  this  has  been 
frequently  the  case — astronomers  should  be  able  to  deter- 
mine a  few  days  afterwards  its  distance  from  the  sun,  to- 
gether with  the  number  of  years  necessary  for  its  orbit. 
"  How  is  it  possible,"  they  ask,  "  to  survey  a  new  guest 
after  such  a  short  acquaintance  so  accurately,  as  to  foretell 
his  path,  nay,  even  the  time  of  his  course  ?" 

Nevertheless  it  is  true  that  this  can  be  done,  and  cer- 
tainly no  stage-coach  nor  locomotive  can  announce  the  hour 
and  minute  of  its  arrival  with  as  much  accuracy  as  the 
astronomer  can  foretell  the  arrival  of  a  celestial  body, 
though  he  may  have  observed  it  but  a  short  time. 

More  yet  is  done  sometimes.  In  1846,  a  naturalist  in 
Paris,  Leverrier  by  name,  found  out,  without  looking  in 
the  sky,  without  making  observations  with  the  telescope, 
simply  by  dint  of  calculation,  that  there  must  exist  a  planet 
at  a  distance  from  us  of  2,862  millions  of  miles;  that  this 
planet  takes  60,238  days  and  11  hours  to  move  round  the 
sun;  that  it  is  24  J  heavier  than  our  earth,  and  that  it  must 
be  found  at  a  given  time  at  a  given  place  in  the  sky ;  pro- 
vided, of  course,  the  quality  of  the  telescope  be  such  as  to 
enable  it  to  be  seen. 

Leverrier  communicated  all  this  to  the  Academy  of 
Sciences  in  Paris.  The  Academy  did  not  by  any  means 
say,  "  The  man  is  insane;  how  can  he  know  what  is  going 
on  2,862  millions  of  miles  from  us;  he  does  not  even  know 

(57) 


58  THE    WONDERS    OF    ASTRONOMY. 

what  kind  of  weather  we  shall  have  to-morrow  !"  Neither 
did  they  say,  "This  man  wishes  to  sport  with  us,  for  he 
maintains  things  that  no  one  can  prove  to  be  false  !"  Nor, 
"  The  man  is  a  swindler,  for  he  very  likely  has  seen  the 
planet  accidentally,  and  pretends  now  that  he  discovered 
it  by  his  learning."  No,  nothing  of  the  kind;  on  the  con- 
trary, his  communication  was  received  with  the  proper  re- 
gard for  its  importance;  Leverrier  was  well  known  as  a 
great  naturalist. 

Having  thus  learned  how  he  made  the  discovery,  the 
members  of  the  Academy  felt  convinced  that  there  were 
good  reasons  to  believe  his  assertions  to  be  true. 

Complete  success  crowned  his  efforts. 

He  made  the  announcement  to  the  Academy  in  January, 
1846;  on  the  31st  of  August  he  sent  in  further  reports 
about  the  planet,  which  he  had  not  seen  as  yet.  The  sur- 
prise and  astonishment  on  the  part  of  scientific  men  can 
scarcely  be  imagined,  while  on  the  part  of  the  uneducated 
there  were  but  smiles  and  incredulity. 

On  the  23d  of  September,  Mr.  Galle — now  Director  of 
the  Breslau  Observatory,  at  that  time  Assistant  in  that  of 
Berlin,  a  gentleman  who  had  distinguished  himself  before 
by  successful  observations  and  discoveries,  received  a  let- 
ter from  Leverrier,  requesting  him  to  watch  for  the  new 
planet  at  a  place  designated  in  the  heavens.  Though  other 
cities  at  that  time  possessed  better  telescopes  than  Berlin, 
this  city  was  chosen  because  of  its  favorable  situation  for 
observations. 

That  same  evening  Galle  directed  his  telescope  to  that 
spot  in  the  sky  indicated  by  Leverrier,  and,  at  an  exceed- 
ingly small  distance  from  it,  actually  discovered  the  planet. 

This  discovery  of  Leverrier  is  very  justly  called  the 
greatest  triumph  that  ever  crowned  a  scientific  inquiry. 
Indeed,  nothing  of  the  kind  had  ever  transpired  before;  our 
century  may  well  be  proud  of  it.  But,  my  friendly  reader, 


A   WONDERFUL  DISCOVERY.  59 

he  who  lives  in  this  age  without  having  any  idea  whatever 
of  the  way  in  which  such  discoveries  are  made — he  does 
not  deserve  to  be  called  a  contemporary  of  this  age. 

We  will  not  try  to  make  an  astronomer  out  of  you;  we 
merely  wish  to  explain  to  you  the  miracle  of  this  dis- 
covery. 


CHAPTEE    II. 

MAIN  SUPPORT  OF  LEVERRIER'S  DISCOVERY. 

WHEN  Leverrier  was  working  at  his  great  discovery  he 
did  not  strike  out  a  new  path  in  science;  he  was  sup 
ported  by  a  great  law  of  nature,  the  base  of  all  astronom 
ical  knowledge.  It  is  the  law  of  gravitation,  discovered 
by  Sir  Isaac  Newton. 

Those  of  our  readers  who  have  fully  understood  what 
we  said  before  (page  50)  about  light,  will  now  easily  com. 
prehend,  what  we  are  going  to  say  about  the  force  of 
gravity. 

Every  heavenly  body  is  endowed  with  the  power  of  at- 
traction; that  is,  it  attracts  every  other  body  in  the  same 
manner  that  a  magnet  attracts  iron.  If  the  celestial 
bodies,  or,  to  speak  only  of  one  €lass,  if  all  the  planets 
were  at  rest,  that  is,  without  motion,  they  would,  on  ac- 
count of  the  great  attractive  power  of  the  sun,  rapidly  ap- 
proach it,  and  finally  unite  with  it  and  form  one  body. 

That  this  does  not  take  place,  may  be  ascribed  solely  to 
the  fact  that  all  planets  have  their  own  motion.  This  mo- 
tion, combined  with  the  attractive  force  of  the  sun,  causes 
them  to  move  in  circles  around  it. 

This  may  be  illustrated  by  the  following:  Suppose  a  strong 
magnet  to  lie  in  the  centre  of  a  table.  Now,  suppose  some 
one  to  place  an  iron  ball  on  the  table;  then  will  this  ball 
run  straightway  towards  the  magnet.  But  if  some  one  were 
to  roll  the  ball  so  that  it  should  pass  the  magnet,  it  would 
at  first  run  in  a  straight  line,  but  the  magnet  attracting  it 
at  every  moment  pf  time,  the  ball  would  be  compellid  to 

(60) 


61 


deviate  from  its  straight  course  and  would  begin  to  circu- 
late round.the  magnet. 

We  see  that  this  circular  motion  round  the  magnet 
springs  from  two  forces:  first,  from  the  hand  that  starts 
the  ball  in  a  straight  line;  and  secondly,  from  the  attrac- 
tion of  the  magnet,  which  at  every  moment  draws  the  ball 
towards  itself. 

Newton,  the  greatest  natural  philosopher  of  all  times, 
who  lived  in  England  two  hundred  years  ago,  proved,  that 
all  the  orbits  round  the  sun,  as  described  by  the  planets, 
are  caused  by  two  such  forces ;  by  the  motion  of  the  plan- 
ets peculiar  to  themselves,  which,  if  not  interfered  with, 
would  make  them  fly  through  space  in  a  straight  line;  and 
by  the  attractive  force  of  the  sun,  which  is  continually 
disturbing  that  straight  course,  thus  forcing  the  planets  to 
move  in  circles  around  him. 

But  Newton  has  discovered  more  than  this.  He  suc- 
ceeded in  proving  that,  knowing  the  time  of  a  planet's 
revolution  around  the  sun,  we  can  determine  precisely  with 
what  force  the  attractive  power  of  the  sun  affects  it.  For 
if  the  sun's  attractive  power  is  strong,  the  planet  will  re- 
volve very  quickly;  if  weak,  it  will  move  slowly. 

Were  the  sun,  for  example,  all  of  a  sudden  to  lose  a  por- 
tion of  his  attractive  force,  the  consequence  would  be  that 
the  earth  must  revolve  around  him  more  slowly.  Our  year, 
which  now  has  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  days,  would 
then  have  a  much  greater  number  of  days. 

Newton  has  also  shown — and  this  is  for  us  the  main 
thing — that  the  attractive  force  of  the  sun  is  strong  in  his 
close  proximity,  but  that  it  diminishes  as  the  distance  from 
him  increases.  In  other  words,  the  remoter  planets  are  at- 
tracted by  the  sun  with  less  force  than  those  nearer  to  him. 
The  attractive  force  decreases  with  the  distance  in  the 
same  proportion  as  light,  which,  we  saw  a  little  while  ago, 
decreases  in  intensity  as  the  square  of  the  distance  in- 


62  THE    WONDERS    OF    ASTRONOMY. 

creases.  This  means,  that  a  planet  at  a  distance  from  the 
sun  twice  as  great  as  that  of  the  earth,  is  atk-acted  with 
only  one-fourth  the  force;  one  that  is  three  times  the  dis- 
tance, with  one-ninth  of  the  force,  etc. 

This  great  law  pervades  all  nature.  It  is  -the  basis  of 
the  science  of  astronomy,  and  was  the  main  support  of  Le- 
verrier's  discovery. 


CHAPTEK  III. 

THE  GREAT  DISCOVERY. 

PERHAPS  the  question  presents  itself  to  the  thinking  read- 
er: If  it  be  true  that  the  heavenly  bodies  attract  each 
other,  why  do  not  the  planets  attract  one  another  in  such 
a  manner  that  they  will  run  round  and  about  each  other  ? 

Newton  himself  proposed  this  question ;  he  also  found 
the  answer.  The  attractive  power  of  a  celestial  body 
depends  upon  its  larger  or  smaller  mass.  In  our  solar 
system  the  sun's  mass  is  so  much  larger  than  that  of  any 
of  the  planets,  that  the  balance  of  attractive  power  is 
largely  in  his  favor ;  hence  the  revolving  of  the  planets 
around  him.  If  the  sun  were  to  disappear  suddenly  the 
effect  of  the  attractive  influence  of  the  planets  upon  one 
another  would  be  tremendous.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
that  they  would  all  begin  to  revolve  around  Jupiter,  be- 
cause that  planet  has  the  largest  mass.  To  give  some 
examples  in  figures, — the  sun's  mass  is  355,499  heavier, 
while  Jupiter's  is  but  339  times  heavier  than  that  of  the 
earth.  It  is  evident  that,  the  sun's  mass  being  more  than 
a  thousand  times  larger  than  Jupiter's,  so  long  as  the  sun 
exists  the  earth  will  never  revolve  around  Jupiter. 

Yet  Jupiter  is  not  without  influence  upon  the  earth; 
and  though  it  is  not  able  to  draw  it  out  of  its  course  round 
the  sun,  yet  it  attracts  the  earth  to  some  extent.  Obser- 
vations and  computations  have  shown  us,  that  the  earth's 
orbit  around  the  sun,  owing  to  the  attraction  of  Jupiter, 
is  somewhat  changed,  or,  as  it  is  called,  "  disturbed." 

As  with  Jupiter  and  the  earth,  so  with  all  the  other 

(63) 


64  THE    WONDERS    OF    ASTRONOMY. 

planets;  their  mutual  attraction  disturb  their  orbits  round 
the  sun.  In  reality,  every  planet  revolves  in  an  orbit 
which,  without  this  "  disturbance,"  would  be  a  different 
one.  The  computation  of  these  disturbances  constitutes  a 
great  difficulty  in  astronomy,  and  requires  the  keenest 
and  most  energetic  studies  ever  made  in  science. 

Perhaps  some  of  our  readers  may  ask  here,  whether  in 
course  of  time  these  disturbances  will  become  so  great  as 
to  throw  our  whole  solar  system  into  confusion  ?  Well, 
the  same  question  was  proposed  by  a  great  mathemati- 
cian named  Laplace,  who  lived  towards  the  end  of  the  last 
century.  But  he  himself  answered  the  question  in  an  im- 
mortal work,  "The  Mechanics  of  the  Heavens."  He  fur- 
nished the  proof,  that  all  disturbances  last  but  a  certain 
time;  and  that  the  solar  system  is  constructed  so  that 
the  very  attractions  by  which  the  disturbances  are  caused, 
produce  at  the  end  of  certain  periods  a  regulation  or 
rectification ;  so  that  in  the  end  there  is  always  complete 
order. 

After  what  has  been  said,  it  is  evident  that  if  one  of  the 
planets  were  invisible,  its  presence  would  still  be  known 
to  our  naturalists,  on  account  of  the  disturbances  it  would 
cause  in  the  orbits  of  the  other  planets;  unless,  perhaps,  its 
mass  be  so  insignificant  as  to  render  its  power  of  attrac- 
tion imperceptible. 

And  now  we  may  proceed  to  explain  the  subject  of  this 
chapter. 

Up  to  the  year  1846,  when  Leverrier  made  his  great  dis- 
covery, it  was  believed  that  Uranus  was  the  most  distant 
planet  revolving  around  the  sun.  Uranus  itself  was  dis- 
covered by  Sir  John  Herschel  in  England  in  the  year  1781. 
As  this  planet  takes  eighty-four  years  to  go  round  the  sun, 
its  complete  revolution  had  not  yet  been  observed  in  1846; 
in  spite  of  this,  however,  the  course  of  Uranus  was  calcu- 
lated and  known  very  precisely,  because  the  attractive 


THE    GREAT    DISCOVERY.  65 

force  of  the  sun  was  known ;  and  all  the  disturbances  that 
might  influence  the  planet  were  taken  into  account. 

But  notwithstanding  all  nicety  of  calculations,  the  real 
course  of  Uranus  would  not  at  all  agree  with  the  one  com- 
puted. At  that  time  already,  long  before  Leverrier's  dis- 
covery, the  idea  arose  that  beyond  Uranus,  in  a  region 
where  the  human  eye  could,  in  spite  of  all  telescopes,  dis- 
cover nothing,  there  must  probably  exist  a  planet  which 
changed  the  course  of  Uranus.  Bessel,  a  great  astrono- 
mer, who  unfortunately  for  science  died  too  soon,  was 
already  on  the  point  of  finding  out  by  computation  the 
unknown  disturber.  But  he  died,  shortly  before  Lever- 
rier's discovery.  As  early  even  as  1840,  Maedler,  in  the 
city  of  Dorpat,  in  Russia,  wrote  a  fine  article  on  this  as  yet 
unseen  disturber. 

Leverrier,  however,  began  the  task  and  finished  it.  He 
computed  with  an  acuteness  that  was  admired  by  all  men 
of  science.  He  investigated  whereabout  in  the  heavens 
that  intruder  must  be  situated,  so  as  to  be  able  to  trouble 
Uranus  to  such  an  extent;  how  fast  this  disturber  itself 
must  move  in  its  orbit,  and  how  large  must  be  its  mass. 

We  live  to  see  the  triumph  of  Leverrier's  being  able  to 
discover  with  his  mental  eye,  by  means  of  computation 
only,  a  planet  at  a  distance  of  millions  of  miles  from  him. 

Therefore  let  us  say:  Honor  science  I  Honor  the  men 
that  cultivate  it !  And  all  honor  to  the  human  intellect 
which  sees  farther  than  the  human  eye  ! 


PART  VI. 
METEOROLOGY. 


CHAPTEB   I. 

SOMETHING-  ABOUT  THE  "WEATHER. 

WE  presume  that  in  a  state  of  unusual  bad  weather  there 
are  many  persons,  who  find  occasion  to  reflect  on  the  nature 
of  weather  in  general. 

A  few  years  ago,  we  had  "  green  Christmas  and  white 
Easter,"  and  spring  was  of  course  far  behind  when  Pente- 
cost arrived.  We  had  still  cold  and  rainy  days,  while  the 
nights  were  frosty;  and,  if  one  might  judge  from  appear- 
ances, it  seemed  that  nature  had  made  a  mistake,  and  had 
not  known  of  our  being  then  in  the  month  of  June,  which, 
with  us,  is  usually  a  delightful  month. 

The  sun  alone  was  right.  He  rose  on  the  9th  of  June  of 
that  year  precisely  at  4  o'clock  30  minutes,  as  was  pre- 
scribed to  him  by  the  calendar;  and  set  at  t  o'clock  30 
minutes,  precisely  according  to  orders.  At  that  time  the 
sun  was  hastening  towards  summer,  he  lengthened  the 
days  and  shortened  the  nights;  but  he  alone  is  not  capa- 
ble of  governing  the  weather,  and  our  friends  the  astrono- 
mers, although  they  are  able  to  calculate  the  sun's  course 
with  more  precision  than  the  engineer  can  the  locomotive's, 
are  themselves  greatly  embarrassed  when  asked,  "  What 
kind  of  weather  shall  we  have  the  day  after  to-morrow  ?" 

It  is  unpardonable  that  some  of  our  almanacs,  especially 
those  for  the  farmer,  contain  prophecies  about  the  weather. 
We  cannot  be  too  indignant  against  the  foolish  supersti- 
tion which  this  abuse  tends  to  foster.  And  what  is  worse, 
really  shameful,  is,  that  those  who  print  such  things  do  not 
believe  in  them  themselves,  but  consider  them  a  necessity 

(69) 


TO  METEOROLOGY. 

sanctioned  by  age  and  custom,  and  offer  it  as  such  to  the 
credulity  of  the  public. 

The  subject  of  this  article  on  the  knowledge  of  weather, 
is  a  science,  a  great  branch  of  the  natural  sciences  ;  but 
it  is  a  branch  just  developing,  and  therefore  has,  up  to  the 
present  time,  not  yet  brought  forth  any  fruit. 

It  is  very  likely  that  at  some  future  day  we  shall  be  able 
to  indicate  in  advance  the  weather  of  any  given  place. 
But  for  the  present  this  is  impossible;  and  if  from  time  to 
time  men  arise  and  announce  that  they  can  calculate  and 
determine  in  advance  the  state  of  the  weather  in  any  given 
place — pretending  to  consult  the  planets,  etc. — we  take  it 
for  granted  that  they  are  as  unreliable  as  the  weather- 
prophets  of  the  almanacs. 

We  said  above  that  the  weather  might  possibly  be  de- 
termined a  few  days  ahead;  science  is  at  present  almost 
far  enough  advanced  for  it.  But  there  are  needed  for  that 
purpose  grand  institutions,  which  must  first  be  called  into 
life. 

If  for  the  proper  observation  of  the  weather,  stations 
were  erected  throughout  the  extent  of  our  country,  at  a 
distance  of  about  seventy  miles  from  each  other,  and  if 
these  stations  were  connected  by  a  telegraph-wire,  man- 
aged by  a  scientific  reliable  observer  ;  then  we  might,  in 
the  middle  portion  of  our  country,  be  able  to  determine  in 
advance  the  state  of  the  weather,  though  for  a  short  time 
only. 

For  the  changeableness  of  the  weather  depends  on  the 
nature  and  motion  of  the  air,  and  on  the  amount  of  moist- 
ure, and  the  direction  of  the  winds.  It  is  mostly  occa- 
sioned by  currents  of  air  which  pass  over  the  earth,  pro- 
ducing, wherever  they  meet,  here  cold,  there  heat — here 
rain,  there  hail  or  snow. 

Along  a  part  of  the  coast  of  the  United  States  electric 
telegraphs  have  been  established.  Vessels  receive,  at  a 


SOMETHING    ABOUT   THE    WEATHER.  1 

considerable  distance,  the  news  of  a  storm  approaching-, 
together  with  its  velocity  and  direction.  The  electric  tel- 
egraph being  quicker  than  the  wind,  the  vessels  receive 
the  news  in  time  to  take  their  directions.  Before  the  storm 
reaches  them,  they  have  been  enabled  to  take  precaution- 
ary measures  for  its  reception. 

This  is  a  great  step  forward  in  our  new  science.  But 
not  before  the  time  when  such  stations  shall  be  established 
everywhere  throughout  the  land,  will  meteorology  mani- 
fest its  real  importance.  For  it  has,  like  every  other 
science,  firmly  established  rules,  which  can  easily  be  cal- 
culated and  verified;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  allowances 
must  be  made  for  changeable  conditions  which  tend  to  dis- 
turb the  rules. 

We  will  now  endeavor  to  introduce  to  our  readers  these 
established  rules,  and  explain  the  changeable  conditions  to 
which  we  refer. 


CHAPTEE   II. 

OF  THE  WEATHER  IN   SUMMER  AND  WINTER. 

As  we  have  stated  above,  there  exist  fixed  rules  about 
the  weather;  these  rules  are  simple  and  easy  to  compute. 
But  our  computations  are  often  disturbed  by  a  great  many 
circumstances  beyond  our  reach,  so  much  that  we  are  gov- 
erned more  by  exceptions  than  rules. 

These  latter  are  based  on  the  position  of  our  earth  with 
regard  to  the  sun.  They  are,  therefore,  easy  to  determine, 
for  astronomy  is  a  science  resting  on  firm  pillars;  and  al- 
though nothing  in  the  universe  is  so  far  from  us .  as  the 
stars,  yet  there  is  nothing  in  the  world  so  certain  as  our 
knowledge  of  the  courses  of  the  constellations  and  their 
distances.  Many  of  our  readers  may  be  surprised,  per 
haps,  to  hear  that  we  know  more  accurately  the  distance 
from  the  earth  to  the  sun  than  the  distance  from  New  York 
to  Cincinnati.  Indeed,  astronomical  knowledge  is  the  most 
reliable  in  the  world.  No  merchant  is  able  to  measure  a 
piece  of  cloth  without  being  mistaken,  to  say  the  least,  as 
much  as  -3-!^  part;  while  the  uncertainty  with  respect  to 
distances  of  bodies  in  the  solar  system  amounts  to  a  great 
deal  less  than  -3-^  part. 

Our  earth  turns  on  its  axis  once  in  every  twenty-four 
hours,  and  goes  also  round  the  sun  once  a  year.  But  the 
earth's  axis  is  inclined  towards  the  earth's  orbit — orbit  is 
the  circle  which  a  celestial  body  describes  in  its  revolution 
around  another — in  such  a  manner  as  to  cause  the  earth, 
in  its  orbit  round  the  sun,  to  be  illuminated  for  six  months 
on  one  side,  and  for  six  months  on  the  other  side  of  the 

(72) 


OF    THE    WEATHER    IX    SUMMER   AND    WINTER.  13 

earth.  Hence  it  happens,  that  at  the  north  pole  there  is. 
continual  day  during  six  months  in  the  year,  after  which 
follows  uninterrupted  winter  for  the  next  six  months;  in 
the  same  way  the  day  on  the  south  pole  lasts  six  months, 
and  the  night  following  the  same  length  of  time.  In  the 
middle  between  both  poles,  however,  in  the  regions  around 
the  equator,  the  day  has  throughout  the  year  twelve  hours; 
the  night,  of  course,  the  same;  while  in  the  countries  be- 
tween the  equator  and  the  poles,  the  length  of  day  and 
night  is,  through  the  whole  year,  constantly  varying. 

We,  in  the  United  States,  inhabit  the  northern  hemi- 
sphere ;  when,  therefore,  the  time  comes  that  the  north  pole 
has  day  for  six  months,  we  in  North  America,  being  situ- 
ated about  half-way  between  the  equator  and  north  pole, 
enjoy  long  days  and  short  nights.  The  inhabitants  of  those 
countries,  however,  situated  on  the  southern  hemisphere, 
have  at  that  time  short  days  and  long  nights.  But  when 
the  time  comes  that  there  is  six  months'  night  on  the  north 
pole  and  six  months'  day  on  the  south  pole,  then  will  the 
inhabitants  of  the  southern  hemisphere  have  long  days, 
and  we  long  nights. 

Intimately  connected  with  the  length  of  day  and  night 
are  our  seasons,  especially  summer  and  winter;  for  together 
with  the  sun's  light  heat  is  also  called  forth.  During  our 
long  days,  therefore,  it  is  very  warm  with  us,  for  the  sun's 
rays  heat  the  soil.  During  our  short  days  we  experience 
cold,  because  the  warming  light  of  the  sun  does  not  reach 
our  earth  directly.  For  this  reason  the  northern  hemisphere 
enjoys  summer  while  the  southern  has  winter;  and  vice 
versa,  when  we  have  mid-winter,  people  in  the  other  hemi- 
sphere are  in  the  midst  of  summer.  When  we  are  snow- 
ed up  at  Christmas,  and  seek  joy  and  elevation  by  the 
cheerful  fireside  in  the  brightly-lighted  room,  we  may,  per- 
haps, think  of  our  friends  and  relatives  who  have  emigrated 
to  Australia,  and  the  question  may  occur  to  us,  how  things 


74  METEOROLOGY. 

may  be  with  them  this  cold  weather,  and  how  they  are  en- 
joying- the  holidays  ? 

Now,  would  not  the  uninformed  be  surprised,  if  a  letter 
were  to  arrive  from  Australia,  written  at  Christmas,  telling 
how  the  writer  enjoyed  Christmas  in  his  vine-arbor,  where 
he  had  sought  shelter  from  the  terrible  heat  of  the  day,  and 
that  he  had  but  late  at  night  gone  to  his  room,  and  he 
could  scarcely  sleep  then  on  account  of  the  heat,  and  the 
longing  for  his  former  home  in  the  United  States,  where  he 
could  always  enjoy  cool  weather  at  Christmas. 

The  uninformed  will  now  learn  that  Australia  lies  in  the 
southern  hemisphere,  while  we  are  in  the  northern,  and 
that  there  they  live  in  midst  of  summer,  while  we  are 
buried  in  snow.  Nor  will  he  now  be  surprised  when  he 
reads,  that  it  snowed  in  Australia  in  the  month  of  August, 
and  that  his  friend  or  relative  there  reposed  by  the  fire- 
side, and  read  the  letter  from  home  by  the  light  of  the 
lamp,  at  the  same  hour  that  we  here  were  taking  an  after- 
noon walk  in  the  summer  shade. 

The  heat  of  summer,  however,  does  not  altogether 
depend  upon  the  length  of  the  day;  nor  does  the  cold  of 
winter  upon  its  shortness;  but  principally  on  this,  that 
during  summer-time  the  sun  at  noon  stands  directly  over 
head ;  that  therefore  his  vertical  rays  are  enabled  to  pierce 
the  soil  with  intense  heat;  while  in  winter-time  the  sun  at 
noon  stands  nearer  to  the  horizon ;  his  rays  fall  on  the  earth 
obliquely,  therefore  heating  the  soil  with  but  feeble  power. 

We  shall  presently  see  that  this  position  of  the  sun  ex- 
ercises great  influence  upon  the  weather. 


CHAPTER   III. 

THE  CURRENTS  OF  AIR  AND  THE  WEATHER. 

IN  order  to  fully  understand  the  conditions  of  the  atmos- 
phere, one  must  carefully  notice  the  following  : 

Though  the  sun  produces  summer  and  winter,  and 
although  his  beams  call  forth  heat,  and  the  absence  of  heat 
causes  intense  cold  on  the  surface  of  the  globe,  yet  the 
sun  alone  does  not  make  what  we  call  "  Weather.'' 

If  the  sun's  influence  alone  were  prevalent,  there  would 
be  no  change  at  all  during  our  seasons;  once  cold  or  warm, 
it  would  invariably  continue  to  be  so,  according  to  the 
time  of  the  year.  The  sun,  however,  produces  certain 
movements  in  the  air;  currents  of  air  or  winds  pour  from 
cold  countries  into  warm  ones,  and  vice  versa  from  warm 
ones  into  cold  ones.  It  is  this  that  makes  our  sky  be 
cloudy  or  clear;  that  produces  rain  and  sunshine,  snow 
and  hail,  refreshing  coolness  in  summer  and  warmth  some- 
times in  midwinter,  as  also  chilly  nights  in  summer  and 
thaw  in  winter.  In  other  words,  it  is  more  properly  the 
motion  of  the  air,  the  wind,  that  produces  what  we  call 
weather;  that  is,  that  changeableness  from  heat  to  cold, 
from  dryness  to  moisture,  all  of  which  may  be  comprised 
in  one  name,  weather. 

But  whence  does  the  wind  arise  ?  It  is  caused  by  the 
influence  of  the  sun's  heat  upon  the  air. 

The  whole  earth  is  enveloped  with  a  misty  cover  called 
"air."  This  air  has  the  peculiar  quality  of  expanding 
when  it  becomes  heated.  If  you  put  a  bladder  that  is 
filled  with  air  and  tied  up,  into  the  pipe  of  a  heated  stove, 

(75) 


76  METEOROLOGY. 

the  air  inside  will  expand  so  much  as  to  burst  the  bladder 
with  a  loud  report.  The  warm  expanded  air  is  lighter 
than  the  cold  air,  and  always  ascends  in  the  atmosphere. 
Lofty  rooms  are  therefore  difficult  to  heat  because  the 
warm  air  ascends  towards  the  ceiling.  In  every  room 
it  is  much  cooler  near  the  floor  than  near  the  top  of  the 
room.  This  accounts  for  the  singular  fact  that  in  winter 
our  feet,  though  warmly  clad  in  stockings  and  shoes  or 
boots,  feel  cold  more  often  than  our  hands,  which  are  en- 
tirely uncovered.  If  you  ascend  a  ladder  in  a  tolerably 
cold  room,  you  are  surprised  at  finding  it  much  warmer 
above  than  below  in  the  room.  The  flies  take  advantage 
of  this  in  autumn,  when  they  are  seen  to  promenade  on 
the  ceiling,  because  there  it  is  warm  as  in  summer, 
while  near  the  floor  it  is  cold  ;  owing  to  the  circum- 
stance that  warm  air,  being  lighter  than  cold,  ascends. 

Precisely  the  same  takes  place  on  the  earth.  In  the  hot 
zone  near  the  equator  the  sun  heats  the  air  continually; 
hence  the  air  there  ascends.  But  from  both  the  northern 
and  southern  hemispheres,  cold  air  is  constantly  pour- 
ing towards  the  equator  in  order  to  fill  the  vacuum  thus 
produced.  This  cold  air  is  now  heated  also  and  rises, 
while  other  cold  air  rushes  in  after.  By  this  continued 
motion  of  the  air  towards  the  equator,  however,  a  vacuum 
is  created  also  at  both  poles  of  the  earth ;  and  the  heated 
air  of  the  equator,  after  having  ascended,  flows  towards 
these  two  vacuums.  Thus  arise  the  currents  in  the  air; 
currents  which  continue  the  whole  year,  and  cause  the 
cold  air  to  move  from  the  poles  to  the  equator  along  the 
surface  of  the  earth;  while  higher  in  the  atmosphere  the 
heated  air  flows  from  the  equator  back  to  the  poles. 

Therefore  the  air  is  said  to  circulate  below  from  the 
poles  to  the  equator,  but  above  to  go  back  from  the  equa- 
tor to  the  poles, 

He   who   is   in   the  habit   of   noticing    phenomena  of 


THE    CURRENTS    OF   AIR   AND  THE    WEATHER.  77 

nature,  may  often  have  observed  something  of  the  kind 
when  opening  the  window  of  a  room  filled  with  smoke. 
The  smoke  escapes  above,  while  below  it  seems  to  come 
back  into  the  room  again. 

But  this  is  an  illusion  which  has  its  origin  in  the  fact, 
that  above  the  warm  air  of  the  room  goes  out  of  the  win- 
dow, and,  of  course,  takes  the  smoke  with  it;  below  at  the 
window,  however,  cold  air  pours  in  from  without,  driving 
the  smoke  that  is  below  back  into  the  room.  The  atten- 
tive observer  may  also  see  how  the  two  currents  of  air 
above  and  below  move  in  contrary  directions;  while  in 
the  middle  part  they  repel  each  other,  and  form  a  kind 
of  eddy  which  may  be  clearly  perceived  by  'the  motion 
of  tfie  smoke. 

What  takes  place  on  our  earth  is  nothing  different  from 
this,  and  we  shall  presently  see  the  great  influence  this 
has  upon  our  weather. 


CHAPTEK  IY. 

THE  FIRM  RULES  OF  METEOROLOGY. 

THE  air  which  is  continually  rising  in  the  hot  zones  and 
circulating  towards  the  poles  and  back  again  to  the  equa- 
tor, is  the  prime  source  of  the  wind.  This  latter  modifies 
the  temperature  of  the  atmosphere;  for  the  cold  air  from 
the  poles  of  the  earth,  in  coming  to  the  equator,  cools  the 
torrid  zone;  again,  the  hot  air  going  from  there  to  the  poles 
heats  the  colder  regions.  This  accounts  for  the  fact  that 
very  often  it  is  not  so  cold  in  cold  countries  as  it  really 
would  be,  were  it  not  for  this  circulation  of  the  air;  and 
that  in  hot  countries  we  never  find  the  degree  of  heat  that 
there  would  be  if  the  air  were  continually  at  rest. 

According  to  what  has  been  said,  however,  but  two  dif- 
ferent winds  would  exist  on  the  earth,  and  these  two  mov- 
ing in  fixed  directions;  one  sweeping  over  the  earth  from 
the  poles  to  the  equator,  with  us  called  "North  wind,"  and 
one  from  the  equator  to  the  icy  regions,  with  us  the  "  South 
wind." 

But  we  must  add  here  something  which  considerably 
modifies  this,  viz.,  the  revolution  of  the  globe.  The  earth, 
it  is  well  known,  revolves  round  its  axis  from  west  to  east 
once  in  twenty-four  hours;  the  atmosphere  performs  this 
revolution  also. 

But  since  that  part  of  the  atmosphere  nearest  to  the 
equator  -must  move  with  greater  velocity  than  the  part 
nearer  the  poles,  it  may  with  a  little  thinking  be  easily  un- 
derstood, that  the  air  which  goes  on  the  surface  of  the  earth 
from  the  poles  to  the  equator,  passes  over  ground  which 

(78) 


THE    FIRM   RULES    OF   METEOROLOGY.  19 

moves  faster  east  than  the  air  itself;  while,  on  the  contrary, 
the  air  coming  from  the  hot  zone  starts  in  an  eastern  di- 
rection with  the  velocity  it  had  on  the  equator;  but,  as  it 
it  is  moving  on,  it  passes  over  that  part  of  the  earth  which 
rotates  with  less  velocity. 

This  gives  rise  to  what  are  called  the  trade-winds,  so  very 
important  to  navigation.  In  our  hemisphere  the  trade- 
winds  come  in  the  lower  strata  of  the  air  from  the  north- 
east ;  while  in  the  upper  strata  they  move  towards  north- 
east, they  come  from  the  southwest.  On  the  other  hemi- 
sphere the  trade-winds  in  the  lower  strata  of  the  air  move 
in  a  northwesterly  direction;  in  the  upper  they  move  in  a 
southeasterly  direction. 

From  this  arise  our  rules  respecting  the  weather. 

The  idea  that  many  persons  have  that  wind  and  weather 
are  two  things  entirely  different,  is  wrong.  Weather  is 
nothing  else  but  a  condition  of  the  atmosphere.  A  cold 
winter,  cold  spring,  cold  summer,  and  cold  autumn,  do  not 
mean,  as  some  believe,  that  the  earth,  or  that  part  of  it  on 
which  they  live,  is  colder  than  usual;  for  if  we  dig  a  hole 
in  the  ground,  it  will  be  found  that  neither  cold  nor  warm 
weather  has  any  influence  upon  the  temperature  below  the 
surface  of  the  earth.  At  the  small  depth  of  thirty  inches 
below  the  surface,  no  difference  can  be  found  between  the 
heat  of  the  day  and  the  cold  of  the  night.  In  a  well  sixty 
feet  deep  no  difference  is  perceivable  between  the  hottest 
summer  and  the  coldest  winter-day,  for  below  the  surface 
of  the  earth  the  differences  of  temperature  do  not  exist. 
What  we  call  Weather"  is  but  a  state  of  the  atmosphere, 
and  depends  solely  upon  the  wind. 

It  has  been  stated  already  that  there  are  fixed  rules  of 
weather,  or,  which  is  the  same  thing,  that  there  are  laws 
governing  the  motion  of  the  winds;  but  we  have  added 
also,  that  there  are  a  great  many  causes  which  disturb 


80  METEOROLOGY. 

these  rules,  and  therefore  make  any  calculations  in  ad- 
vance a  sheer  impossibility. 

We  have  seen  that  these  rules  are  called  forth,  1st,  by 
the  course  of  the  sun;  2d,  by  the  circulation  of  the  air 
from  the  poles  to  the  equator  arid  back  again;  and  3d, 
by  the  revolution  of  the  earth,  causing  the  trade-winds. 

All  these  various  items  have  been  calculated  correctly; 
and,  owing  to  this,  we  have  now  a  firm  basis  in  meteorol- 
ogy. But  in  the  next  article,  we  shall  see  what  obstacles 
are  put  in  the  way  of  this  new  science  by  other  things; 
and  the  allowances  to  be  made  for  these  disturbances  can- 
not be  easily  computed. 


CHAPTEE  V. 

AIR  AND  WATER  IN  THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  WEATHER. 

LET  us  now  examine  the  causes  which  disturb  the  regu- 
lar currents  of  air,  and  which  render  the  otherwise  com- 
putable winds  incomputable,  thus  producing  the  great  ir- 
regularities of  the  weather. 

The  main  cause  lies  in  this,  that  neither  the  air  nor  the 
earth  is  everywhere  in  the  same  condition. 

Every  housewife  that  but  once  in  her  life  hung  up  clothes 
to  dry,  knows  full  well  that  air  absorbs  moisture  when 
passing  over,  or  through,  wet  objects.  If  she  wishes  to  dry 
her  clothes  very  quickly,  she  will  hang  then!  up  where 
there  is  much  wind.  And  she  is  perfectly  right  in  main- 
taining that  the  wind  dries  clothes  better  than  the  quiet 
sunshine. 

Whence  does  this  come  ? 

From  this  :  dry  air,  when  coming  in  contact  with  wet 
objects,  absorbs  the  moisture,  and  by  this  dries  the  object 
somewhat.  If  there  be  no  wind,  the  moistened  air  will 
remain  around  the  wet  object,  and  the  drying  goes  on  very 
slowly.  But  so  soon  as  a  little  wind  arises,  the  moist  air 
is  moved  away,  new  dry  air  constantly  takes  its  place,  and 
coming  into  contact  with  the  wet  article,  effects  in  a  very 
short  time  the  desired  result. 

Hence,  it  is  not  heat  alone  that  causes  the  clothes  to 
dry;  for  in  winter-time,  though  it  is  so  cold  that  the  clothes 
on  the  line  freeze  to  stiffness,  they  dry  nevertheless,  if  it 
be  very  windy.  It  is  the  wind  which  dries  them  by  allow- 
ing fresh  air  to  pass  through  them  continually.  For  the 

(81) 


82  METEOROLOGY. 

same  reason  our  housewives  open  doors  and  windows  after 
a  room  has  been  scoured,  so  that  by  a  thoropgh  draft  of 
air,  the  floor  may  dry  quickly;  a  large  fire  in  the  stove  or 
fireplace  could  not  effect  it  so  readily. 

From  all  this  we  may  learn  that  the  air  absorbs  parti- 
cles of  water.  It  will  now  be  evident  to  every  one,  why 
water  in  a  tumbler,  standing  uncovered  at  the  open  win- 
dow for  a  few  days,  constantly  decreases,  until  it  finally 
disappears  entirely  and  the  tumbler  is  dry.  Where  has 
the  water  gone  ?  The  air  drank  it  off,  little  by  little,  until 
at  last  the  tumbler  was  emptied. 

"  But,"  you  will  exclaim,  "  what  does  the  air  do  with  all 
the  water  it  drinks  ?  The  air  goes  over  the  whole  ocean; 
over  lakes,  rivers,  brooks,  and  springs;  over  woods  and 
fields,  and  everywhere  it  takes  in  particles  of  water.  What 
becomes  of  them  ?" 

After  being  absorbed,  the  particles  of  water  unite  and 
form  clouds;  then  they  fall  down  in  the  form  of  fog,  rain, 
snow,  or  hail. 

Many  persons,  even  highly  educated  ones,  have  false  ideas 
about  these  phenomena  of  the  atmosphere. 

Some  think  a  cloud  is  a  kind  of  bag  that  contains  the 
rain  which  is  let  fall  by  the  cloud.  This  is  entirely  false. 
The  clouds  are  nothing  but  fogs  in  the  upper  regions  of 
the  atmosphere;  fog  itself  is  nothing  but  a  cloud  imme- 
diately over  ground. 

It  is  easy  to  obtain  a  correct  idea  of  the  formation  of 
fog  and  rain;  one  need  but  observe  for  one's  self. 

He  who  has  ever  blown  upon  his  hands  in  winter-time 
in  order  to  warm  them,  will  have  observed  that  his  hands 
become  moist  from  his  breath.  If  a  window-pane  is 
breathed  upon,  it  is  covered  by  a  thin  coat  of  water.  What 
is  the  cause  of  this  ?  It  arises  from  the  fact  that  the  air 
we  exhale  contains  water-particles  from  our  blood.  We  do 
not  see  them  when  it  is  warm,  because  they  are  airy  them- 


AIR   AND    WATER    IN    THEIR   RELATIONS    TO    WEATHER.          83 

selves ;  everybody  knows  that  they  become  visible  so  soon 
as  the  air  turns  cool ;  or  that  they  appear  like  fog  when 
one  is  in  a  cold  room  in  winter;  that  they  form  drops  when 
you  breathe  upon  cold  objects;  that  they  freeze  and  be- 
come snow;  nay,  that  in  severe  cold  weather,  after  a  long- 
walk  out-doors,  they  even  cling  to  one's  moustache  like 
icicles. 

This  may  illustrate,  that  these  particles  of  water  are  in- 
visible in  the  warm  air,  but  that  when  the  air  is  colder 
they  appear  as  fog;  when  still  colder,  as  drops  of  rain; 
and  in  very  cold  weather  they  turn  to  snow,  while  in  se- 
vere cold  they  freeze  and  form  ice. 


CHAPTEK    VI. 

FOG,   CLOUDS,  BAIN,  AND  SNOW. 

THE  air  imbibes  particles  of  water  from  all  parts  of  the 
earth ;  and  thus  charged  with  water  it  is  the  same  and 
operates  the  same  as  our  breath. 

So  soon  as  a  stratum  of  air  that  contains  water-particles, 
meets  with  a  colder  stratum,  these  airy  particles  of  water 
immediately  flow  together  to  form  fog.  But  fog,  as  has 
been  said,  is  nothing  but  a  cloud.  He  who  has  travelled  in 
mountainous  countries,  has  often  noticed  this.  From  the 
valley  it  often  appears  that  the  top  of  a  high  mountain  is 
wrapped  in  clouds;  and  his  curiosity  may  be  excited  to 
ascend  the  mountain  in  order  to  examine  these  clouds.  But 
when  he  arrives  there,  he  sees  nothing  whatever  either 
before  or  behind  him  but  fog,  which  most  assuredly  he  has 
often  seen  before  without  so  much  trouble.  The  ignorant 
person  who  believes  that  a  cloud  is  something  else  than 
fog,  and  who  fancies  that  the  clouds  which  he  saw  from 
below  have  disappeared  during  his  ascent,  leaving  but  a 
mist  behind,  will  be  no  little  amazed  when  he  has  arrived 
at  the  foot  of  the  mountain  again,  to  see  the  cloud  above 
as  before,  and  to  perceive  that  he  actually  walked  among 
the  clouds. 

Hence  it  is  understood  now,  that  the  particles  of  water 
in  the  air  form  fog,  or,  which  is  the  same,  clouds,  so  soon 
as  they  come  into  a  colder  stratum.  But  the  cloud  is  not 
rain  as  yet ;  the  change  into  rain  will  depend  upon  circum- 
stances that  may  be  easily  guessed.  If  a  warmer  and 
dryer  stratum  passes  over  the  one  containing  the  newly 

(84) 


FOG,  CLOUDS,  RAIN,  AND    SNOW.  85 

formed  clouds,  then  this  warmer  stratum  will  absorb  the 
water-particles  of  the  other.  The  moist  air  fares  like  the 
wet  clothes  we  spoke  of;  the  warm  dry  air  absorbs  its  par- 
ticles of  water.  But  if  a  colder  stratum  of  air  approaches 
the  stratum  containing1  clouds,  then  the  water-particles 
of  the  latter  are  condensed;  the  cloud  becomes  small  drops 
of  water;  these  drops  are  too  heavy  to  be  supported  in  the 
air,  and  they  fall  down  as  rain. 

During  its  descent,  the  drop  of  rain  is  steadily  increased 
by  the  water-particles  of  the  air  through  which  it  passes. 
Thus  it  happens,  that  rain  often  arrives  at  the  earth  in  the 
form  of  large  drops  of  water,  while  when  yet  in  the  air 
and  beginning  to  fall,  it  consisted  of  tiny  drops.  It  is 
well  known  that  the  rain-drops  on  thereof  are  smaller  than 
those  that  fall  on  the  street.  The  difference  is  so  great, 
that  on  the  roof  of  the  royal  castle  in  Berlin,  Prussia,  there 
falls  four  and  a  half  inches  less  rain  during  the  year  than 
on  the  square  before  the  building. 

Our  readers  may  now  imagine,  without  difficulty,  how 
in  a  similar  way,  snow  is  formed.  If  a  stratum  of  air  satu- 
rated with  moisture  meets  a  very  cold  one,  the  fog  begins 
to  freeze,  and  becomes  specks  of  snow.  They,  too,  increase 
while  falling,  and  on  arriving  upon  the  earth  they  are  large 
flakes. 

On  the  occasion  of  a  lecture  about  the  formation  of  snow 
in  the  atmosphere,  Professor  Dove  once  told  an  anecdote, 
which  is  as  interesting  as  it  is  instructive.  A  musician  in 
St.  Petersburg  gave  a  concert  in  a  large  hall,  where  the 
fashionable  world  had  assembled  in  great  numbers.  It 
was  an  icy  cold  night,  such  as  is  almost  unknown  with  us; 
but  in  the  overcrowded  hall  there  was  such  excessive  heat 
as  only  Russians  can  endure.  Soon,  however,  it  became 
too  intense  even  for  them.  The  hall  was  densely  crowded ; 
the  throng  was  alarming;  several  ladies  fainted.  An 
effort  was  made  to  open  a  window,  but  without  success — 


86  METEOROLOGY. 

the  window  was  frozen  fast.  A  gallant  officer  devised 
means;  he  broke  the  window  in.  And  what  happened? 
It  commenced  to  snow  in  the  concert  room  !  How  did  this 
come  ?  The  vapor  exhaled  by  the  multitude  of  persons  in 
the  hall  had  collected  abx>ve,  where  the  air  was  hottest. 
The  sudden  entrance  of  the  icy  air  through  the  broken 
window  changed  the  particles  of  water  into  snow.  Thus 
it  was  this  time  not  heaven,  but  the  upper  space  of  an  un- 
ventilated  concert-hall,  that  sent  down  snow. 

In  a  similar  way  hail  is  formed  in  the  atmosphere;  this 
we  shall  consider  at  more  length  hereafter.  At  present 
we  must  turn  our  attention  to  the  influence  of  these  phe- 
nomena upon  cold  and  heat;  for  it  is  a  known  fact,  that 
rain  and  evaporation  are  not  only  engendered  by  cold  and 
heat,  but,  vice  versa,  that  rain  and  evaporation,  in  their 
turn,  engender  cold  and  heat  in  the  air. 


CHAPTEE  VII. 

HOW  HEAT  IN  THE  AIR  BECOMES  LATENT,  AND  HOW  IT 
GETS  FREE  AGAIN. 

IN  the  preceding  chapter  it  was  shown  how  warm  air 
produces  evaporation,  and  how  cold  air  causes  rain  and 
snow.  In  this  chapter  we  desire  to  demonstrate  how  the 
reverse  may  take  place,  viz.,  the  engendering  of  cold  and 
heat  by  evaporation  and  rain. 

Although  what  we  wish  to  prove  in  the  following  is  firmly 
established,  yet  it  is  not  easy  to  make  it  understood.  For 
this  reason  many  educated  men,  who  have  read  much  about 
"free  and  latent  heat,"  have  mistaken  ideas  about  it. 

In  order  that  what  we  shall  explain  may  be  in  the  reach 
of  every  one,  we  must  again  choose  our  examples  from  life 
itself,  and  request  our  readers  to  come  to  our  aid  with  their 
thoughts. 

Every  one  knows  how  water  is  boiled.  It  is  placed 
over  the  fire,  the  heat  of  which  communicates  itself  to  the 
water  and  heats  it  more  and  more.  Now,  where  does  the 
heat  of  the  fire  go  ?  It  is  taken  up  by  the  water;  thus  to 
speak,  the  water  absorbs  the  heat.  This  explains  why  a 
cooking-stove  on  which  a  dinner  is  cooked,  does  not  get 
near  as  warm  as  it  would,  if  the  same  quantity  of  fuel  had 
been  used  without  any  cooking  on  the  stove.  For  a  por- 
tion of  the  heat  being  absorbed  by  the  meat,  it  cannot 
heat  the  stove;  hence  the  stove  fails  to  receive  the  amount 
of  heat  that  is  used  in  cooking  the  meat. 

What  will  be  the  effect  of  taking  boiling  water  from  the 

(87) 


88  METEOROLOGY. 

stove  and  placing  it  in  the  room  somewhere  ?  Where  will 
the  heat  of  the  water  go  then  ? 

We  all  know  that  in  this  case  the  water  cools  down  by 
degrees.  The  water  gives  out  its  heat.  Now,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  while  on  the  fire,  the  water  had  absorbed  heat; 
and  that  it  gave  out  that  heat  on  being  put  in  a  colder 
place. 

But  what  will. become  of  the  water  if  it  is  allowed  to 
continue  to  absorb  heat  ?  What  becomes  of  a  pot  of  water, 
if,  on  beginning  to  boil,  it  is  not  taken  off  the  fire  ?  Does 
such  water  continue  to  absorb  heat  ? 

Observation  shows  that  this  is  not  the  case.  Put  a 
thermometer  into  boiling  water;  it  will  immediately  rise 
to  212  degrees;  let  it  remain  there  ever  so  long,  it  will  not 
rise  a  degree  higher.  But  during  that  time  there  was  a 
brisk  fire;  it  is  evident,  therefore,  that  heat  was  continu- 
ally passing  into  the  water.  Where,  then,  is  this  heat  ? 
It  has  not  remained  in  the  water,  or  else  the  thermometer 
would  have  continued  to  rise.  It  must  be,  then,  that  it 
has  passed  away  with  the  burning  hot  steam  which  has 
been  constantly  rising  and  floating  about  in  the  room. 
Moreover,  it  is  well  known  that  water,  when  allowed  to 
continue  to  boil,  decreases  in  quantity.  Our  housewives 
call  this  "  boiling  down."  In  truth,  however,  the  water  boils 
up  ;  for,  if  you  notice  carefully,  a  part  of  the  water,  while 
boiling,  is  changed  into  steam,  which  may  be  seen  rising 
from  the  pot  and  ascending  in  the  air.  The  question  nat- 
urally arises  now,  where  is  the  heat  that  the  boiling  water 
has  been  continually  absorbing  ?  It  has  not  remained  in 
the  water,  or  the  thermometer  would  have  continued  to 
rise.  The  answer  is  now  evident :  the  heat  has  risen  with 
the  steam,  and  with  it  floats  about  in  the  air;  or,  in  other 
words,  the  heat  has  been  absorbed  by  the  steam;  or,  which 
is  the  same,  the  heat  has  become  latent  in  the  steam. 
Therefore  we  are  correct  in  saying,  it  takes  heat  to  change 


HOW    HEAT   IN    THE   AIR   BECOMES   LATENT,  ETC.  89 

water  into  steam.  We  know  now  where  the  heat  has  gone ; 
it  has  become  latent  in  the  steam. 

The  next  question  might  be  :  Can  this  latent  heat  be- 
come free  again  ?  Certainly  it  can  ;  and  many  a  good 
housewife  has  convinced  herself  of  it  very  often,  though 
perhaps  she  did  not  philosophize  about  it.  When  touch- 
ing unawares  the  spout  of  the  tea-kettle  with  her  hand  she 
felt  as  though  her  hand  was  wet,  and  scalded  besides. 
Whence  did  this  come  ?  The  hand  was  wetted  by  the 
steam,  which,  on  coming  in  contact  with  the  hand, 
changed  to  water  again,  but  in  the  same  moment,  also, 
the  steam  gave  up  its  heat  to  the  hand  by  scalding  it. 
Steam,  therefore,  when  changing  into  water,  gives  its  latent 
heat  up  again  ;  or,  the  latent  heat  becomes  free. 

This  phenomenon,  which  may  be  witnessed  in  every 
kitchen,  happens  in  nature  on  a  larger  scale;  by  what  pow- 
erful effects  it  is  accompanied,  we  propose  to  show  in  the 
next  chapter. 


CHAPTEK  VIII. 

[LATENT  HEAT  PRODUCES  COLD;  FREE  HEAT,  WARMTH. 

HE  who  considers  how  water  when  heated  is  trans- 
formed into  steam,  and  how  this  steam  has  absorbed  the 
whole  portion  of  heat  that  was  necessary  to  form  it,  will 
easily  understand,  that  places  where  vapor  is  formed  must 
become  cooler.  Just  as  the  fire  used  for  cooking  purposes 
cannot  heat  the  stove,  so  that  portion  of  the  sun's  heat 
which  changes  the  water  on  the  surface  of  the  earth  into 
vapor,  cannot  heat  the  earth.  Hence  it  follows,  that 
wherever  water  evaporates,  the  air  turns  cool,  because  the 
heat,  instead  of  being  imparted  to  the  air,  is  used  in  form- 
ing vapor  ;  this  vapor,  then,  contains  the  same  portion  of 
heat  that  was  necessary  to  form  it ;  or,  scientifically  speak- 
ing, vapor  makes  heat  latent. 

When  in  summer  it  is  oppressively  hot,  and  a  heavy 
shower  comes,  it  is  often  more  oppressive  during  the  rain 
than  before ;  but  after  the  rain  the  weather  is,  as  we  call 
it,  cooled  off. 

What  is  the  cause  of  this  ?  After  the  rain  the  surface 
of  the  earth  is  wet,  and  the  moisture  begins  to  evaporate. 
In  other  words,  the  rain-water  changes  again  into  vapor. 
To  do  this,  heat  is  necessary,  and  is  withdrawn  from  the 
air  and  from  the  surface  of  the  earth;  by  this  means  air 
and  earth  become  cool. 

It  is  very  agreeable  during  the  summer-time  to  have  the 
streets  of  cities  sprinkled  with  water,  and  it  is  also  very 

(90) 


LATENT  HEAT  PRODUCES  COLD,  ETC.  91 

healthy,  because  the  evaporation  of  the  sprinkled  water 
renders  heat  latent,  and  thus  cools  off  the  air. 

The  reverse,  however,  may  also  take  place.  As  the 
housewife's  hand  is  scalded  when  the  steam  changes  on 
her  hand  into  water,  that  is,  as  the  steam  by  turning  into 
water  again  gives  up  the  heat  it  possessed,  just  so  acts 
nature.  When  vapor  in  the  air  turns  into  rain,  it  gives  up 
that  portion  of  heat  which  it  had  held  latent,  and  hence  it 
it  is,  that  'before  a  rain  or  snow-storm  the  weather  turns 
warmer. 

When  in  winter  it  suddenly  turns  a  little  warm,  that  is, 
when  the  cold  suddenly  diminishes,  we  know  that  it  is  go- 
ing to  snow.  The  only  reason  why  it  has  become  warm  is 
this,  that  in  the  air  above,  vapor  has  changed  into  snow, 
thus  giving  up  its  heat,  the  benefit  of  which  we  feel.  Thus 
in  summer-time,  when  the  sun  becomes  fiercest,  people 
say  "  The  sun  draws  water,  it  will  rain."  The  truth  is, 
that  the  vapors  in  the  air  change  into  water,  and  thus  give 
up  their  heat;  people  now  think  the  sun  has  become  hotter. 

Another  consequence  of  this  phenomenon  is  the  fact, 
that  in  countries  where  there  is  much  water,  the  air  in  sum- 
mer is  much  cooler,  because  a  great  deal  of  water  evapo- 
rates there,  by  which  means  heat  is  absorbed  or  made  la- 
tent. In  winter  the  air  in  such  countries  is  warmer,  be- 
cause much  vapor  is  changed  into  water;  thus  heat  becomes 
free. 

It  is  evident  that  all  this  has  a  great  influence  upon  the 
weather — an  influence  that  may  be  calculated  even  in  ad- 
vance. 

To  state  an  example  :  The  positions  of  Berlin  and  Lon- 
don are  such,  that  the  summer-heat  and  the  winter-cold 
ought  to  be  equal  in  both  places.  But  because  England 
is  an  island  in  the  ocean,  that  is,  surrounded  by  large 
masses  of  water,  the  evaporation  of  water  is  in  London 
much  greater;  hence  the  summer  there  is  cooler.  For  the 


92  METEOROLOGY. 

same  reason  rain  and  fog  are  much  more  frequent  there, 
and  the  winter,  consequently,  is  less  severe. 

In  the  course  of  this  work  we  shall  see  how  similar  con- 
ditions have  very  great  influence  upon  whole  countries, 
and  therefore  often  cause,  contrary  to  the  rule,  cold  sum- 
mers and  warm  winters. 


CHAPTEE   IX. 

RULES  ABOUT  THE  WEATHER,  AND  DISTURBANCES  OF 
THE  SAME. 

IF  we  cast  a  glance  upon  the  phenomena  of  our  atmos- 
phere, we  find  that  they  are  indeed  computable,  and  that 
the  weather  in  general  may  be  foretold,  even  for  large  coun- 
tries, with  some  degree  of  certainty.  Nay,  there  are  coun- 
tries where  the  weather  is  not  variable  at  all,  but  changes 
at  regular  periods  and  according  to  fixed  rules. 

In  countries  near  the  equator,  where  the  sun's  heat  is 
very  strong,  heat,  calm,  and  dryness  prevail  during  the 
summer-time.  This  state  of  the  atmosphere  continues  unin- 
terruptedly until  winter;  nor  can  there  be  any  frost  there  in 
winter,  because  even  then  the  sun's  rays  fall  with  but  little 
obliquity  upon  the  surface  of  the  earth.  But  inasmuch  as 
the  sun  no  longer  heats  the  earth  to  the  same  degree,  the 
air  ceases  to  retain  the  same  amount  of  heat,  and  as  a 
great  deal  of  cold  air  is  constantly  passing  in  from  the 
poles,  the  vapor  spoken  of  above  is,  at  that  season  of  the 
year,  changed  back  into  water.  Thus,  winter  there  is 
merely  a  long,  uninterrupted  rainy  season. 

We  see  that  for  the  warmer  countries  the  rules  of  tem- 
perature are  pretty  constant  and  sure;  there  one  is  not  sur- 
prised by  irregularities  of  weather  such  as  occur  with  us. 
Summer  brings  heat,  calm,  arid  dryness ;  winter,  east  winds, 
thunder-storms,  and  continual  rain.  The  rain  once  ceasing, 
the  sun  reappears  in  a  few  days,  and  everything  begins  to 
bloom  again. 

This  holds  good  only  for  the  countries  near  the  equator. 

(93) 


94  METEOROLOGY. 

The  further  you  go  towards  the  poles,  the  more  varied  be- 
come summer  and  winter,  the  length  of  day  and  night, 
heat  and  cold,  and  consequently,  also,  the  condition  of  the 
atmosphere  and  of  the  weather  proper. 

A  glance  upon  the  map  will  convince  any  one,  that  it 
is  with  us  that  the  weather  is  most  changeable.  The  rea- 
sons for  this  may  now  be  more  closely  examined.  Our 
country  lies  nearly  half  way  between  the  pole  and  the 
equator.  From  our  pole  we  constantly  receive  a  cold 
wind,  the  north  wind.  And  above,  in  the  atmosphere,  a 
warm  wind,  the  south  wind,  goes  continually  from  the 
equator  to  the  pole.  Through  the  rotation  of  the  earth 
around  its  axis  from  west  to  east,  the  north  wind  becomes 
an  easterly,  that  is,  a  northeast  wind;  and  the  south 
wind  in  the  upper  atmosphere  becomes  a  westerly,  or  south- 
west wind.  The  former,  coming  from  cold  countries,  car- 
ries no  vapor  with  it;  hence,  during  northeast  wind  we 
have  clear  sky,  or  sunshine,  but  without  heat.  If  this 
wind  occurs  in  winter,  it  brings  us  dry  frost;  in  daytime 
the  sun  shines  splendidly,  at  night  the  stars  sparkle  bril- 
liantly; yet  our  breath  freezes  on  our  lips.  The  same  wind 
when  prevailing  in  the  first  days  of  spring,  causes  us,  in 
spite  of  the  glaring  sun,  to  feel  considerably  cold  in  the 
shade. 

And  it  is  but  natural  that  it  should  be  so. 

The  wind  comes  from  the  north  ;  there  ice  and  snow  are 
just  melting,  and  the  sun's  heat  being  employed  for  this 
"  melting  business,"  the  air  cannot  receive  much  of  it. 

This  kind  of  weather  would  be  regular  with  us;  but,  as 
we  know  already,  the  heated  upper  air  flows  from  the  equa- 
tor to  the  north  pole;  now  we  live  in  the  very  region  where 
this  upper  air,  in  its  descent  towards  the  poles,  at  times 
touches  the  surface  of  the  earth,  thus  causing  warm  cur- 
rents of  air,  which  occasionally  are  followed  by  cold  ones. 

Near  the  equator  the  cold  current  of  air  moves  below 


RULES    ABOUT   THE    WEATHER,  ETC.  95 

and  the  warm  one  above;  while  in  our  regions,  both  cur- 
rents meet  near  the  surface  of  the  earth,  struggle  with 
each  other,  seek  to  repel  one  another,  rush  and  roll  in  all 
directions  over  the  land,  and  bring  us  such  varieties  of 
weather  as  will  exasperate  all  weather  prophets,  and 
greatly  increase  the  difficulty  of  scientific  solutions  in  me- 
teorology. 

In  the  next  chapter  we  shall  endeavor  to  prove  that  this 
state  of  affairs,  together  with  the  situation  of  our  country, 
are  the  main  causes  of  the  changeableness  of  our  weather. 


CHAPTEE    X. 

THE  CHANGEABLENESS  OF  THE  WEATHER  WITH  REGARD 
TO  OUR  GEOGRAPHICAL  POSITION. 

WE  have  endeavored  to  explain  why  our  weather  is  so 
uncertain  and  incomputable.  As  we  have  seen,  it  has  its 
origin  in  this,  that  in  our  regions  the  warmer  equatorial 
currents  of  air  no  longer  move  above  the  colder  ones,  but 
that  they  descend  here,  and  pursue  their  northern  course 
alongside  and  opposing  the  colder  currents.  This  often 
gives  rise  to  a  struggle  between  cold  and  warm  currents. 
In  summer  we  witness  such  combats  very  frequently.  The 
sky  is  at  first  bright;  the  sun  sends  down  his  most  power- 
ful rays  ;  in  the  shade  we  are  refreshed  by  a  strong 
draught,  which  keeps  the  sky  clear,  and  free  from  clouds. 
Suddenly  there  comes  a  calm.  Even  in  the  shade  the  heat 
now  becomes  intolerable.  The  trees  stand  immovable ;  no 
leaflet  stirs.  The  complete  calm  becomes  unendurable, 
and  causes  anxiety.  "Always  a  calm  before  a  storm," 
say  the  people,  and  hasten  to  seek  shelter  in  their  houses — 
and  well  1  for  it  is  not  long  before  a  counter  wind  com- 
mences to  blow.  The  weathercock  turns  round,  the  dust 
in  the  streets  is  whirled  up  in  eddies,  and  here  and  there 
rises  in  clouds  to  the  house-tops.  Suddenly  clouds  are 
seen  to  form  themselves;  the  trees  shake  their  crowns; 
the  leaves  rustle,  and  before  one  is  aware  of  it,  we  have 
storm,  thunder,  and  violent  rain,  which  cool  off  the  earth. 

Whence  came  this  weather;  more  especially,  whence 
came  the  calm  preceding  it,  and  the  whirlwind  following  ? 

There  were  two  opposite  currents  of  air,  which  for  a  time 

(96) 


THE  CHANGEABLENESS  OF  THE  WEATHER.         91 

avoided  each  other,  but  at  length  met  over  our  heads. 
Each  current  at  first  pressed  on  the  other  with  equal  force, 
so  that  they  mutually  were  brought  to  a  stand-still;  this 
we  called  a  calm.  But  such  an  equilibrium  does  not  last 
long,  for  one  current  must  in  the  end  overcome  the  other ; 
they  whirl  through  one  another,  raise  the  dust  in  high  col- 
umns, seize  the  trees  and  give  them  a  thorough  shaking. 
The  cold  current  changes  the  vapor  of  the  warm  current 
into  clouds,  then  into  rain.  The  pouring  down  rain  imme- 
diately sets  free  the  heat.  At  this  stage  electrical  phe- 
nomena are  witnessed,  such  as  lightnings,  claps  of  thun- 
der, and  concussions  of  the  air.  And  this  continues  until 
one  current  of  air  has  carried  the  victory  over  the  other; 
not  till  then  does  the  weather  become  quiet  again. 

Besides  these  opposing  currents  of  air,  which  come  from 
the  north  and  south,  there  are  other  causes  disturbing  our 
weather,  viz.,  the  geographical  position  of  our  country  in 
regard  to  the  east  and  west. 

A  glance  on  the  map  reminds  us  that  our  continent  bor- 
ders, on  the  east  and  west,  on  that  immense  waste  of 
water,  the  ocean.  We  know  now  that  the  air  above  the 
water  is  always  saturated  with  vapors,  while  the  air  over 
the  land  is  comparatively  dry.  And  moist  air  contains 
heat,  dry  air  does  not;  both,  however,  are  continually  tend- 
ing towards  equilibrium  and  wish  to  exchange  tempera- 
tures from  each  other.  As  our  dry  air  is  surrounded  on 
both  sides  by  moist  air,  it  is  evident  that  we  must  more  or 
less  partake  of  both  heat  and  cold;  but  it  moreover  ac- 
counts for  the  happy  circumstance  that  we  have  much  rain; 
hence  our  soil  is  well  watered,  and  this  is  a  blessing  to  any 
country. 


CHAPTEE   XI. 

ABOUT  THE  DIFFICULTY  AND  POSSIBILITY  OF  DETER- 
MINING-  THE  WEATHER. 

HAVING  now  explained  the  rules  referring  to  the  condi- 
tions of  our  weather,  and  proved  that  owing  to  the  geo- 
graphical position  of  our  country,  to  determine  the  weather 
in  advance,  is  difficult,  we  wish  to  examine  this  difficulty 
a  little  more  closely  in  pointing  out  the  wrong  direction 
which  has  hitherto  been  pursued  in  the  science  of  meteor- 
ology. 

The  main  difficulty  in  predicting  the  weather  for  any 
given  place  consists  in  this,  that  a  change  in  the  atmos- 
phere need  not  originate  in  the  place  where  it  occurs.  Thus, 
to-morrow's  weather  in  New  York  is  not  a  consequence  of 
the  condition  of  the  air  as  it  exists  there  to-day ;  for  the 
air  is  continually  moving,  and,  owing  to  many  disturb- 
ances, is  carried  over  city  and  country:  We  have  no  sure 
means  of  ascertaining  whence  the  wind  will  come  to  us  to- 
morrow. All  we  know  is,  that  from  all  sides  currents  of 
air  are  moving  simultaneously;  from  the  north  pole  a  cold 
current,  from  the  equator  a  warm  one,  from  the  ocean  one 
saturated  with  moisture.  All  these  winds  are  in  continual 
commotion,  and  have  the  characteristics  of  the  neighbor- 
hood from  which  they  come.  If  from  the  state  of  the 
weather  in  New  York  to-day  it  were  desired  to  predict  the 
weather  there  for  to  morrow,  one  ought  to  be  able  to  over- 
look a  space  of  about  a  thousand  miles  around;  in  other 
words,  it  must  first  be  ascertained  what  is  the  state  of  the 
atmosphere  within  about  a  thousand  miles  of  the  city.  Be- 

(98) 


DIFFICULTY    OF   DETERMINING   THE    WEATHER. 

sides,  there  should  be  known  the  direction  of  all  the  winds 
within  this  wide  space,  and  their  speed,  and  whether  they 
contain  much  moisture  or  little.  Not  without  this  infor- 
mation could  a  calculation  be  made  about  the  velocity  with 
which  a  change  of  the  weather  would  take  place  in  New 
York;  what  results  the  meeting-  of  two  or  more  currents 
of  air  might  call  forth;  and  what  kind  of  weather  this 
might  produce  there. 

Weather,  therefore,  for  the  present  state  of  meteorology, 
is  but  a  subject  of  investigation  into  the  existing  condition 
of  existing  phenomena,  and  not  a  subject  of  prediction  of 
coming  phenomena.  It  is  true,  there  are  general  rules  by 
which  a  proximate  success  in  predicting  may  be  obtained. 
If  winter  begins  mild,  or,  better,  if  southwest  winds  and 
rain  prevail  till  the  middle  of  January,  it  is  very  likely 
that  this  will  be  counterbalanced  by  a  northeast  wind  in 
the  latter  part  of  the  winter.  The  saying,  therefore,  is  cor- 
rect, "  green  Christmas  and  white  Easter;"  but  this  rule  is 
by  no  means  infallible,  the  counteraction  may  be  accel- 
erated by  violent  storms,  or  greatly  retarded  by  mild  cur- 
rents of  air. 

Not  before  the  time  that  meteorological  stations  are  es- 
tablished throughout  the  land,  and  connected  by  electric 
telegraphs — a  project  which  to  us  may  seem  immense,  but 
to  our  children  will  appear  very  simple  and  natural — not 
before  that  time  will  a  city  like  New  York,  for  example, 
receive  timely  information  about  the  conditions  of  the  cur- 
rents of  air  at  all  the  stations.  At  each  of  these  places 
the  force  of  the  current,  its  warmth,  moisture,  and  weight 
will  be  accurately  ascertained  by  instruments.  Then,  and 
then  only,  we  may  calculate  what  currents  will  meet  and 
where,  and  what  effects  the  meeting  will  have.  If  this  be 
done  on  Saturday,  the  Sunday  papers  will  be  enabled  to 
state  precisely  whether  the  church-goers  must  provide 
themselves  with  umbrellas  or  parasols. 


100  METEOROLOGY. 

But  not  for  Sunday  alone  will  this  be  of  importance.  It 
will  be  long  after  their  establishment,  that  such  weather- 
stations, connected  by  telegraphs,  will  prove  their  real 
efficiency  and  blessing;  and  our  descendants,  perhaps,  will 
wonder  how  we  could  live  without  an  institution,  which  to 
them  will  appear  as  simple  and  natural  as  do  to  us  gaslights 
and  railroads,  which  by  our  forefathers  would  have  been 
rejected  as  idle  dreams  or  works  of  witchcraft. 


CHAPTEE    XII. 

THE  FALSE  WEATHER-PROPHETS. 

WE  wish  to  speak  here  a  few  words  about  the  false 
methods,  that  have  hitherto  been  applied  to  the  investi- 
gation and  foretelling  of  the  weather. 

The  weather  prophecies  of  the  almanac  are  a  disgrace 
to  our  advanced  age.  Those  who  still  print  them  deserve 
that  their  productions  should  nowhere  find  sale.  We  are 
not  of  those  who  expect  everything  of  the  magistrates 
and  their  orders;  but  an  example  should  be  set  to  prevent 
the  publishers  from  dishing  up  to  the  people  such  absurd- 
ities. 

Some  of  these  wily  prophets  pretend  to  read  their  pre- 
dictions in  the  course  of  the  planets.  For  this  purpose, 
they  have  divided  the  planets  into  two  classes,  according 
to  their  positions  in  regard  to  the  earth  and  sun :  1st, 
those  that  produce  cold,  and  2d,  those  that  produce  heat. 
By  this  means  they  pretend  to  prophesy  how  many  de- 
grees of  heat  or  cold  there  will  be  every  day  at  sunrise 
or  sunset 

When  critically  analyzed,  these  prophecies  prove  to  be 
theoretically  and  practically  nothing  but  charlatanry. 

It  is  beyond  all  doubt  that  the  position  of  the  planets  is, 
to  state  an  example,  for  Boston  the  same  as  for  the  city  of 
Washington ;  if  there  are  any  heat  or  cold-producing 
planets,  they  would  have  the  same  effect  at  Boston  that 
they  would  at  Washington.  But  this  is  not  the  case. 
Boston  has  often  cold  weather  when  in  Washington  it  is 
very  warm,  and  vice  versa.  Besides  such  a  heating  or  cool- 

(101) 


102  METEOROLOGY. 

ing  influence  of  planets  would  be  perceivable  on  every 
spot  of  the  earth  alike  which  again  is  not  warranted  by 
facts.  On  the  contrary  it  often  happens  that  when  cold 
winds  are  passing  over  one  part  of  the  country,  warm 
winds  are  passing  over  another.  It  is  almost  certain  that 
cold  winters  in  Europe  always  accompany  warm  winters 
in  America;  and  again,  that  cold  winters  in  America  usu- 
ally accompany  warm  ones  in  Europe.  On  a  closer  ex- 
amination of  the  facts  in  the  case,  we  must  conclude  that, 
on  the  whole,  weather-prophets  take  things  very  easy. 
Noting  the  mean  heat  of  each  day,  and  trusting  to  their 
good  luck,  they  prophesy  one  or  two  degrees  above  or 
below.  Now,  there  is  no  great  risk  in  doing  this,  and  as  a 
matter  of  course  such  prophecies  are  realized  one  out  of 
two.  But  at  times,  almanacs  announce  an  extraordinary 
increase  of  cold  or  heat  for  a  given  day,  although  the  situ- 
ation of  the  planets  does  not  change  suddenly  in  one  day. 
Then,  their  predictions  very  seldom  prove  to  be  correct. 
In  such  cases  the  almanac-makers  know  how  to  manage 
affairs.  The  country  being  very  large,  they  send  for  in- 
formation to  those  places  where  observations  on  the 
weather  are  made.  It  is  almost  certain  that  somewhere 
in  the  land  their  prophesy  has  come  true.  Very  likely  the 
cold  may  have  increased  extraordinarily  in  the  course  of 
a  day  at  New  York,  Boston,  Chicago,  Cincinnati,  or  St. 
Louis,  etc.,  afterwards  the  weather-prophets  compare  their 
predictions  with  the  results  of  observation  in  the  various 
cities,  and  publish  whatever  of  them  are  found  to  have 
been  true. 


CHAPTEE   XIII. 

HAS  THE  MOON  INFLUENCE  UPON  THE  WEATHER  ? 

THE  idea  that  the  moon  exercises  an  influence  upon  the 
state  of  the  weather  is  very  general,  not  only  with  the 
people,  but  also  among  the  better  educated.  What  in- 
duces them  to  entertin  it,  is  not  real  observation  of  na- 
ture, but  a  belief  which  is  not  without  a  semblance  of 
truth.  If,  they  say,  the  moon  has  enough  influence  upon 
our  waters  to  produce  tides,  it  must  exercise  a  still 
greater  influence  upon  the  sea  of  air  surrounding  us,  and 
hence  it  must  be  of  the  greatest  importance  to  our  weather. 

This  is,  however,  an  illusion.  A  long  time  ago  it  was 
proved  by  Laplace,  that  tides  are  caused  by  the  great 
weight  of  a  liquid.  If  the  ocean  were  filled  with  mercury 
instead  of  water,  the  tides  would  reach  a  formidable  height. 
Tides,  then,  do  exist  in  the  atmosphere,  but  in  comparison 
much  less  than  in  the  water,  because  the  air  is  so  much 
lighter.  It  happens  that  we  do  not  live  on  the  surface  of 
the  atmosphere,  but  in  the  lowest  strata  of  this  airy  sea  ; 
and  in  these  strata,  where  the  weather  manifests  itself,  the 
effect  of  the  tides  in  the  upper  air  is  so  insignificant,  that 
nothing  of  it  has  yet  been  discovered  in  spite  of  most  dili- 
gent barometer  observations. 

Learned  men  have  had  such  a  respect  for  this  popular 
belief,  that  thorough  observations  and  investigations  have 
been  made  in  order  to  settle  the  question. 

These  investigations  were  of  three  kinds: 

1st.  What  influence  with  regard  to  heat  ana  cold  has 
the  nearness  or  remoteness  of  the  moon  upon  our  weather  ? 

(103) 


104  METEOROLOGY. 

2d.  What  influence  nas  the  same  upon  rain  or  aryness  in 
the  atmosphere  ?  3d.  Has  the  change  of  the  moon  any 
bearing  upon  the  variability  of  our  weather  ? 

For  the  reply  to  these  questions,  some  naturalists  have 
made  use  of  the  minutest  observations  for  a  period  of  near- 
ly forty  years;  during  which  time  the  temperature,  pres- 
sure, and  moisture  of  the  air  have  been  measured  daily. 

These  observations  have  been  scrupulously  examined; 
the  conclusion  arrived  at  is,  that  the  moon  is  not  quite 
without  influence  upon  the  state  of  our  atmosphere  ;  but 
this  influence  is  so  very  small,  that  it  is  not  brought  to 
bear  at  all  on  meteorology. 

When  the  moon  is  nearest  to  the  earth,  it  is  certainly  a 
little  colder  than  when  she  is  farther  off ;  but  the  decrease 
of  heat  amounts  in  the  average  scarcely  to  one-fifth  of  a 
degree,  and  this  is  a  quantity  entirely  imperceptible  in 
our  weather.  As  to  rain,  it  is  a  little  less  frequent  in  the 
time  of  the  moon's  greatest  distance  from  the  earth ;  but 
this  difference,  too,  is  imperceptibly  small.  In  one  thou- 
sand rain-storms  there  are  four  hundred  and  eighty-eight 
during  the  moon's  greatest  distance,  five  hundred  and 
twelve  during  her  nearest.  As  to  the  pressure  of  the  air, 
it  is  during  the  moon's  greater  distance  somewhat  greater 
than  when  she  is  nearer,  but  this  difference  is  still  less 
than  the  preceding  ones,  so  much  so  that  a  common  barom- 
eter does  not  even  indicate  it. 

The  most  thorough  investigations  have  been  made  about 
the  influence  of  the  waxing  and  waning  moon  upon  the 
weather,  because  it  was  on  this  subject  that  the  greatest 
illusion  prevailed.  The  result  here  is  likewise,  that 
scarcely  any  difference  exists,  and  that  it  is  a  mere  super- 
'Btition  for  people  to  maintain,  that  when  the  moon  changes, 
the  weather  changes  also.  The  change  in  the  moon,  more- 
over, does  not  take  place  all  of  a  sudden,  but  with  great 
regularity  from  day  to  day,  from  minute  to  minute;  while 


HAS   THE  MOON   INFLUENCE    UPON   THE    WEATHER?  105 

the  weather,  especially  with  us,  changes  often  very  ab- 
ruptly. 

It  is  therefore  certain,  that  in  meteorology  one  has  only 
to  observe  the  earth  and  her  position  with  regard  to  the 
sun,  together  with  the  currents  of  air  and  the  position  of 
land  and  water.  Other  phenomena  of  the  atmosphere  may 
be  entirely  omitted. 


PART  VII. 
OUR  ARTICLES  OF  FOOD. 


CHAPTEE   I. 

THE  RAPID  RENEWAL  OF  THE  BLOOD  IS  AN  ADVANTAO-E. 

OUR  articles  of  food  are  also  called  articles  of  life,  and 
very  properly  so;  for  that  which  lives  in  us  is,  indeed, 
nothing  but  food  transformed  into  ourselves. 

According-  to  this,  it  is  very  easy  to  determine  what  a 
man  must  eat  in  order  to  live;  what  kind  of  food  can  best 
maintain  his  health;  what  constantly  renews  his  working- 
power;  what  compensates  for  the  loss  he  experiences  by 
emission  of  breath,  perspiration,  and  excretions. 

This  easy  task  many  have  proposed  to  themselves.  They 
believe  they  have  solved  the  problem,  if  they  can  but 
prove  that  all  parts  of  the  human  body  are  fed  by  the 
blood;  and,  the  constituents  of  the  blood  being  well  known, 
they  believe  they  have  done  enough,  if  they  designate  that 
food  as  the  most  proper  for  man  which  contains  the  con- 
stituent parts  of  the  blood,  or  which,  by  digestion,  maybe 
changed  into  blood. 

As  a  general  thing  this  is  true;  yet  it  is  not  sufficient  to 
give  the  necessary  information  about  the  principal  articles 
of  our  food. 

The  poor  Irishman,  who  lives  almost  exclusively  on  po- 
tatoes, has  as  much  blood  in  his  body  as  the  Englishman, 
whose  workmen  threaten  him  with  a  strike,  if  they  do  not 
earn  enough  to  have  a  piece  of  meat  and  a  good  glass  of 
beer  for  breakfast.  The  Irishman's  blood  contains  quite 
the  same  elements  that  the  Englishman's  does,  and  yet  their 
food  is  very  different;  and  the  Irishman  is  as  justly  called 
"  poor,"  as  the  Englishman  is  said  to  be  "  well  fed." 

(109) 


110  OUR   ARTICLES    OF   FOOD. 

It  is  evident  that  the  blood  alone  does  not  account  for 
this,  nor  can  it  do  so.  There  must  be  other  additional 
items;  and  these  we  shall  try  to  learn  before  we  speak  of 
the  different  articles  of  food  and  their  worth. 

The  first  principle  which  we  must  set  up  before  all  others, 
runs  thus  :  Nutrition  does  noj^  depend  on  the  blood,  but 
rather  on  its  quick  renewal. 

The  blood  resembles  the  capital  which  a  man  possesses. 
No  one  can  live  on  his  capital  without  consuming  it;  he 
must  live  on  the  interest  of  the  capital;  he  must  live  by 
constantly  turning1  the  capital  over.  And  so  must  it  be 
with  the  blood.  The  comparison  seems  so  perfect,  that  we 
can  illustrate  our  idea  best  by  an  example. 

Imagine  two  merchants,  each  of  whom  has  but  a  hundred 
dollars.  Both  merchants  are  therefore  equally  rich  in  cap- 
ital. But  there  is  the  following  difference  between  them  : 
the  one  goes  to  the  country  twice  a  week  and  buys  cattle 
and  brings  it  to  market,  where  he  sells  it  again.  By  doing 
this  he  realizes  every  time  five  dollars  on  his  capital.  The 
other  establishes  a  notion-store,  buys  himself  a  hundred 
dollars'  worth  of  goods,  which  he  sells  in  a  month,  and 
thereby  gains  twenty-five  dollars.  Now,  which  of  these 
two  fares  the  better  ?  The  notion-dealer,  who  with  his  hun- 
dred dollars  has  earned  twenty-five  dollars,  or  the  cattle- 
dealer,  who  gained  but  five  ?  Most  assuredly  the  cattle- 
dealer.  For  while  the  other  has  twenty-five  dollars  to  live 
on,  the  cattle-dealer  has  eight  times  five,  or  forty  dollars. 
Whence  does  this  come  ?  In  a  month  the  notion-dealer 
turns  over  his  capital  but  once,  while  the  cattle-dealer 
turns  his  eight  times. 

The  same  holds  good  with  the  Irishman  and  the  English- 
man. Both  have  the  same  quantity  of  blood;  it  is  their 
capital,  and  the  same  for  both.  But  the  renewal  is  not  the 
same.  The  Englishman  works  vigorously  and  eats  vigor, 
ously.  When  he  works,  he  spends  his  capital,  his  blood; 


RAPID   RENEWAL    OF   THE    BLOOD   IS   AN    ADVANTAGE.        Ill 

by  every  blow  of  the  hammer  particles  of  his  body  are 
wasted;  the  activity  of  his  body  is  great  and  his  appetite 
is  great.  He  invests  his  capital  again  and  again  in  rapid 
succession,  and  he  takes  it  in  just  as  rapidly  and  fares  well 
with  it.  The  poor,  unhappy  Irishman,  however,  spends  his 
blood  but  very  slowly ;  he  does  not  work ;  he  eats  potatoes, 
which,  taken  alone,  are  bad  food;  thus,  he  invests  his  capi- 
tal very  slowly  and  takes  it  in  again  very  slowly;  and 
though  the  capital  is  in  both  cases  the  same,  its  slow  re- 
newal is  the  cause  of  the  Irishman's  being  miserable,  dull, 
and  lazy,  while  the  Englishman  is  sound  in  body  and  soul. 
Therefore  the  blood  alone  is  not  all,  but  its  rapid  con- 
sumption and  renewal  is  the  most  important  object. 


CHAPTEB  II. 

DIGESTION. 

IN  the  preceding  article  we  said  that  the  rapid  conver- 
sion and  waste  of  the  blood  is  the  main  point  in  nutrition 
In  the  examination  of  food,  only  such  articles  ought  to  be 
pronounced  good  and  healthy,  as  are  capable  of  rapidly 
replacing  the  blood  lost  by  work  and  vital  activity.  It 
follows  from  this,  that  our  chemists  do  not  do  enough, 
when  they  examine  the  food  and  determine  its  worth 
merely  according  to  its  contents ;  articles  of  food  must  be 
studied  also  in  reference  to  the  rapidity  and  ease  with 
which  they  may  be  converted  into  blood. 

An  article  that  contains  little  of  what  the  blood  needs, 
but  which  converts  that  little  rapidly  and  easily  into 
blood,  is  much  preferable  to  food  which  contains  many  of 
the  constituent  parts  of  the  blood,  but  turns  into  blood  very 
slowly  and  with  difficulty. 

An  example  will  illustrate  this  better  : 

It  has  been  proved  chemically,  that  the  husks  of  grain, 
the  pure  bran,  contain  a  remarkably  large  quantity  of 
vegetable  albumen  and  fat;  in  this  particular,  bran  is  richer 
than  even  flour,  and  a  distinguished  chemist,  Millon,  in 
Paris,  in  1849,  created  quite  a  sensation  by  his  earnest  ad- 
monition to  use  bran  no  longer  only  to  feed  cattle,  but  to 
use  it  mixed  with  flour,  as  food  for  man.  He  calculated 
minutely  and  proved  irrefutably,  that  such  food  must  be 
considered  a  great  advantage,  a  real  blessing. 

Although  his  investigations  and  computations  were  cor- 
rect, it  has  since  been  shown  that  his  proposition  is  false. 
In  his  capacity  of  a  chemist  he  was  right;  but  the  stomach 

(112) 


DIGESTION.  1 13 

has  not  as  much  time  and  patience  as  a  studious  chemist. 
Notwithstanding  bran  contains  much  that  the  blood  can 
use,  yet  it  is  of  no  avail  so  long-  as  our  digestive  appa- 
ratus is  not  organized  to  perform  the  change  of  the  bran 
into  blood  rapidly  and  easily.  If  bran  leaves  our  body 
undigested,  which  happens  even  to  the  strongest,  then 
it  is  certainly  more  judicious  to  give  it  to  cattle  ;  they 
can  digest  it  well,  grow  fat  and  strong  upon  it,  and  give 
us  meat,  fat,  and  milk  in  return. 

There  is  another  truth  we  must  constantly  keep  in 
view  ;  it  is  this  :  Of  two  like  articles  of  food,  the  better 
and  more  advantageous  one  to  us  is  that  which  is  di- 
gested, or  better,  converted  into  blood,  the  more  easily 
and  quickly. 

And  there  is  a  third  truth,  which  must  not  be  omitted. 
Let  no  one  for  a  moment  believe,  that  a  great  variety 
of  food  is  something  unimportant  and  indifierent  ;  on  the 
contrary,  investigations  have  shown  that  uniform  food 
is  hurtful,  while  a  constant  change  is  very  beneficial  to 
nutrition  and  health. 

Nor  must  we  neglect,  by  way  of  conclusion,  to  men- 
tion a  very  important  item,  viz.  :  that  taste  comes  in 
for  a  large  share,  and  that  a  judicious  assortment  and 
seasoning  of  the  food  is  an  essential  part  of  good  nu- 
trition. The  husband  provides  for  his  wife,  it  is  true;  but, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  good  housewife  who  prepares 
healthy,  tasteful  meals,  does  in  truth  perform  a  great  ser- 
vice, and  contributes  more  to  the  working  power  of  her 
husband,  than  most  of  men  are  aware. 

After  these  few  preliminaries,  we  will  speak  now  of  the 
articles  themselves;  in  doing  so,  we  shall  keep  within  the 
limits  of  practical  life,  though  we  run  the  risk  of  trans- 
gressing here  and  there  into  the  domain  of  our  good 
housewives,  and  of  meddling  with  what,  according  to  their 
idea,  is  not  our  business. 


CHAPTEE    III. 

COFFEE. 

WE  come  now  to  consider  the  various  articles  of  food 
in  detail.  We  shall  take  for  guide  neither  the  luxurious 
life  of  the  rich,  who,  on  account  of  his  disordered  stomach, 
constantly  tickles  his  palate  with  dainties;  nor  the  miser 
able  life  of  the  poor,  who,  on  account  of  his  empty  stom- 
ach, is  bound  to  find  everything  palatable.  We  wish 
rather  to  take  into  consideration  the  food  of  that  class  of 
people  in  which  the  husband  works  hard  to  support  his 
family;  and  where  the  wife  is  a  good  housewife,  and  cares 
for  the  health  and  strength  of  her  husband  and  children. 
In  other  words,  we  wish  to  consider  the  kind  of  food  called 
household  fare,  and  speak  of  the  meals  as  taken  every  day. 

It  is  customary  with  most  to  take  coffee  in  the  morning. 

Now,  what  are  the  qualities  of  coffee  ?  Is  coffee  an  arti- 
cle of  food  ?  Or  is  it  a  beverage  merely  to  quench  the 
thirst  ?  Is  it  a  means  of  warming  ?  Or  is  it  a  spice  ? 
Medicine  ?  Or  perhaps  poison  ? 

It  is  strange  that  science  has  not  yet  reached  the  truth 
about  these  questions. 

Coffee  has  been  chemically  analyzed,  and  has  been  found 
to  contain  a  peculiar  element,  caffeine,  which  has  an  abun- 
dance of  nitrogen.  It  is  remarkable  also  that  tea  has  been 
found  to  contain  an  element  called  theine,  which  has  the 
same  quantity  of  nitrogen, 

As  in  some  countries  tea  replaces  coffee — this  is  espe- 
cially the  case  in  Russia,  Holland,  England,  and  America — 
the  great  and  ingenious  naturalist  Liebig  has  come 

(114) 


COFFEE. 


115 


to  the  conclusion  that  it  is* nitrogen  which  constitutes  the 
chief  value  of  tea  and  coffee  as  articles  of  food  ;  and  as  our 
blood  needs  nitrogen,  in  order  to  be  able  to  form  our  mus- 
cles and  flesh,  coffee,  according  to  Liebig,  must  be  counted 
among  the  articles  of  food. 

In  later  times  this  view  has  been  attacked.  Although 
it  is  true  that  nitrogen  is  very  abundant  in  coffee,  and  that 
we  need  nitrogen  to  form  muscles,  yet  it  can  never  be  the 
nitrogen  which  incites  us  to  the  enjoyment  of  coffee.  It  is 
the  berry  of  the  coffee  that  contains  the  nitrogen  ;  a  part 
of  it  escapes  during  the  process  of  roasting  ;  a  great  part 
is  thrown  away  with  the  coffee-grounds,  so  that  the  quan- 
tity of  nitrogen  actually  left  in  the  infusion  is  exceeding- 
ly small.  Besides,  if  we  enjoy  in  coffee  only  the  nitrogen, 
we  pay  very  high  for  it. 

In  the  United  States,  annually  about  two  hundred 
and  fifty  millions  of  pounds  of  coffee  are  used.;  the  cost 
is  estimated  at  twenty-five  millions  of  dollars.  Since  the 
coffee  itself  is  not  consumed,  but  only  the  infusion,  it  fol- 
lows that  about  100,000  pounds  of  nitrogen  are  consumed 
at  a  cost  of  250  millions  of  dollars,  which  is  a  terrible 
waste,  considering  that  for  this  money  seven  times  as 
much  nitrogen  could  be  taken,  if,  instead  of  coffee,  meat 
were  used,  which  contains  also  a  large  quantity  of  nitro- 
gen. 

The  natural  sciences,therefore,  show  among  their  scholars 
professed  enemies  of  coffee.  They  are,  from  a  medical  as 
well  as  economical  point  of  view,  decidedly  opposed  to  its 
use.  Some  have  even  gone  so  far  as  to  declare  it  poison- 
ous ;  a  naturalist  by  name  of  Zobel  proved  that  it  con- 
tains Prussic  acid,  one  of  the  deadliest  poisons.  Fortu- 
nately we  know  that  this  Prussic  acid  is  rendered  ineffect- 
ual by  the  ammoniac  which  coffee  contains,  and  which  is 
used  as  an  antidote  against  Prussic  acid. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  we  have  reason  to  esteem  coffee  very 


116  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

highly.  A  beverage  which  has  become  such  a  necessity 
to  every  nation,  is  of  great  importance  ;  and  the  instinct 
with  which  millions  and  millions  of  our  fellow-men  are 
drawn  to  its  enjoyment,  is  the  best  proof  that  the  use 
of  coffee  is  not  hurtful,  but  advantageous  to  man  ;  not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  in  some  diseases  it  is  for- 
bidden, and  that  science  has  not  yet  succeeded  in 
showing  us  the  real  advantage  of  coffee  as  a  means  of 
food. 


CHAPTEE    IV. 

COFFEE  AS  A   MEDICINE. 

Itf  recent  times  coffee  has  been  considered,  not  as  an  ar- 
ticle of  food,  but  partly  as  a  spice  and  partly  as  a  kind  of 
medicine.  Spice  it  is,  inasmuch  as  it  causes,  like  many 
other  spices,  the  stomach  to  secrete  an  increased  quantity 
of  gastric  juice.  Digestion  only  takes  place  when  the 
sides  of  the  stomach  secrete  a  liquid  having  the  quality  of 
digesting  food.  Owing  to  this,  well-to-do  people  take 
after  dinner  a  cup  of  coffee  in  order  to  promote  digestion. 
It  is  because  at  night  the  power  of  digesting  is  very  much 
enfeebled — hence  the  bad  sleep  after  one  has  eaten  some- 
thing difficult  to  digest — and  because  the  stomach  is  re- 
laxed and  inactive,  that  a  cup  of  coffee  in  the  morning 
refreshes  and  stimulates  the  coats  of  the  stomach,  and 
causes  there  renewed  vigor  and  activity.  It  is  a  common 
observation,  that  more  appetite  is  felt  after  coffee  than  be- 
fore it.  So  much  for  the  importance  of  coffee  as  a  spice. 
Very  justly  we  ascribe  to  coffee  also  a  medicinal  influence; 
we  consider  it  a  medicine  for  our  mental  activity,  and  for 
the  activity  of  the  nerves. 

It  is  well  known  that  at  night  coffee  dispels  fatigue,  and 
that  by  the  use  of  strong  coffee  sleep  may  be  banished  for 
a  long  time.  And  more;  those  that  are  busy  mentally, 
often  feel  a  fresh,  invigorating  impulse  after  the  enjoyment 
of  coffee;  when  fatigued  with  work,  they  make  it  a  means 
to  recruit  their  strength.  For  a  similar  reason,  coffee  can 
animate  conversation.  When  we  meet  elderly  ladies  in 
society,  and  notice  them  sitting  quietly  and  talking  but  in 

(117) 


118  OUR   ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

monosyllables,  we  need  not  be  surprised;  they  have  had 
no  coffee  yet !  But  when,  after  a  little,  conversation 
flows  with  full  force  like  a  rapid  stream  of  water,  we 
may  from  this  safely  recognize  the  mighty  influence  of 
coffee;  it  has  loosened  not  only  the  tongues,  but  more — 
the  looks,  the  hands,  nay,  the  whole  body  and  the  whole 
soul. 

Although  the  mind  has  rested  during  the  night,  we  feel 
in  the  morning  rather  sleepy  than  otherwise,  and  hence  it 
is,  that  we  are  every  morning  desirous  of  stimulating  our 
nervous  system  with  a  cup  of  coffee,  preparing,  as  it  were, 
our  mind  for  the  day's  work.  A  modern  naturalist,  as 
genial  as  he  is  learned,  Moleschott,  ascribes  the  lately  in- 
creased consumption  of  coffee  to  the  greater  degree  of 
mental  activity,  which  life  in  former  times  did  not  require 
to  such  a  high  extent  as  our  present  age. 

We  have  now  sufficiently  explained  the  need  of  coffee- 
drinking,  and  we  must  confess  that  all  we  have  said  here 
does  not  in  the  least  affect  our  conviction  that,  according 
to  Liebig,  coffee  is  also  nutritive.  And  no  one  can  help 
believing  this  who  has  seen  how  old  people  can  subsist  on 
but  very  little  food,  provided  they  can  have  plenty  of 
coffee.  The  objection  raised,  that  it  would  be  better  for 
these  persons  to  take  the  nitrogen  contained  in  coffee  in 
the  form  of  meat,  is  correct;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  we 
must  stop  to  ask,  whether  meat  would  be  good  for  the 
stomach  at  all  such  times  as  a  cup  of  coffee  is  1  This 
would  certainly  not  be  the  case  early  in  the  morning;  and 
if  in  the  coffee  we  enjoy  a  beverage  which  gives  us  nutri- 
ment, strengthens  the  stomach  and  at  the  same  time  stim- 
ulates our  mind,  we  have  good  reasons  to  reverence  the 
instinct  of  man  which  raised  coffee  to  an  essential  means 
of  subsistence,  and  discovered  its  beneficial  influence  long 
before  this  was  done  by  science. 


CHAPTEK   V. 

USEFULNESS  AND  HUBTFUL.NESS  OF  COFFEE. 

SINCE  coffee  possesses  the  quality  of  stimulating  the 
nervous  system,  it  is  a  matter  of  course  that  in  many  cases 
its  effect  is  rather  injurious.  Phlegmatic  people,  especially, 
need  coffee,  and  they  are  fond  of  drinking  it ;  for  a  similar 
reason  it  is  a  favorite  beverage  in  the  Orient,  where  its 
consumption  is  immense.  But  to  persons  of  an  excitable 
temperament  the  enjoyment  of  coffee  is  hurtful;  they  ought 
only  to  take  it  very  weak.  With  lively  children  it  does 
not  agree  at  all,  and  it  is  very  wrong  to  force  them  to 
drink  it,  as  is  often  done;  while  elderly  people,  who  are  in 
need  of  a  stimulant  for  the  decreasing  activity  of  their 
nerves,  are  right  in  taking  as  much  of  it  as  they  choose. 

In  households  of  limited  means  it  is  often  customary 
to  use  succory  with  coffee.  We  do  not  pretend  to  pro- 
nounce this,  if  taken  in  moderate  quantity,  hurtful;  but 
we  do  say,  that  it  is  a  poor  substitute  for  coffee,  and  that 
there  is  nothing  in  it  to  recommend  its  use.  A  far  better 
mixture  is  milk  and  sugar,  and  there  is  good  reason  for  it; 
both  milk  and  sugar  are  articles  of  food.  Milk  contains 
the  same  ingredients  as  blood,  and  sugar  is  changed  in 
the  body  into  fat,  which  is  indispensable  to  us,  especially 
to  the  process  of  breathing.  Having  taken  no  food  through 
the  night,  the  loss  our  blood  has  suffered  during  sleep  by 
perspiration,  and  the  fat  which  has  been  lost  by  respira- 
tion, must  be  compensated  for  in  the  morning.  For  this, 
•lilk  and  sugar  in  coffee  are  excellent.  It  is  good  for 
Children  to  have  a  taste  for  sweetened  milk,  or  milk-coffee, 

(119) 


120  OUR    ARHCLES    OF    FOOD. 

in  the  morning.  We  must  not  find  fault  with  them  if  they 
like  it.  Nature  very  wisely  gave  them  a  liking  for  sugar; 
they  need  it,  because  their  pulse  must  be  quicker,  their 
respiration  stronger,  in  order  to  facilitate  the  assimilation 
of  food  in  their  bodies,  and  also  to  promote  growth.  Not 
that  adults  need  no  sugar;  but  the  sugar  necessary  for 
them  is  formed  from  the  starch  contained  in  their  food.  For 
this  purpose  the  digestive  apparatus  must  be  strongly  de- 
veloped; with  children  this  is  not  the  case;  therefore  they 
are  given  sugar,  instead  of  the  starch  to  make  it  from. 
Many  diseases,  particularly  rickets — prevailing  mostly 
among  the  children  of  the  poor — are  the  consequence  of 
feeding  the  child  with  bread  and  potatoes  ;  these  contain 
starch  it  is  true,  but  the  digestive  apparatus  of  children 
being  yet  too  weak  to  change  them  into  fat,  the  result  is 
that  the  flesh  falls  away,  and  the  bones  grow  soft  and 
crooked. 

But  he  who,  to  promote  digestion,  takes  coffee  imme- 
diately after  dinner,  does  best  not  to  use  sugar  or  milk ;  for 
both,  so  far  from  helping  digestion,  are  an  additional  bur- 
den to  the  full  stomach,  and  disturb  its  labor  more  than 
the  coffee  can  facilitate  it. 

It  is  very  good  to  take  wheat  bread  for  breakfast.  Wheat 
has  nearly  twice  the  quantity  of  sugar  and  starch  that 
rye  contains,  and  it  is  besides  easier  to  digest.  And  as  it 
is  our  principal  duty  in  the  morning  to  replace  as  quickly 
as  possible  what  we  have  lost  during  the  night,  it  is  a  mat- 
ter of  importance  to  give  the  stomach  such  food  as  is  both 
nutritive  and  quickly  digested. 


CHAPTEE   VI. 

BREAKFAST. 

WORKMEN,  even  those  who  must  perform  hard  labor,  are 
sufficiently  strengthened  by  coffee  and  wheat  bread  in  the 
morning  to  begin  their  work.  But  to  be  able  to  continue 
it,  a  more  substantial  breakfast  is  necessary,  since  coffee 
and  bread  alone  would  only  replace  what  was  lost  during 
the  night.  On  the  continent  of  Europe  it  is  therefore  the 
custom  to  take  coffee,  or  milk,  and  bread  very  early,  and, 
at  about  nine  or  ten  o'clock  a  more  substantial  meal,  a 
kind  of  lunch. 

Breakfast  is  with  but  few  the  principal  meal  of  the  day; 
for  those,  however,  who  rise  early  it  is  the  one  taken  with 
the  best  appetite.  This  fact  ought  to  induce  all  to  give  at- 
tention to  this  meal;  especially  those  who  early  in  the 
morning  have  worked  hard  already,  and  those  who,  mind- 
ful of  the  old  saying, 

"  Early  to  bed  and  early  to  rise 

Makes  a  man  healthy,  wealthy  and  wise," 

intend  not  to  idle  away  the  precious  morning  hours. 

To  him  who  is  in  the  habit  of  laboring,  and  who  loves  to 
labor,  an  early  breakfast  has  a  peculiar  charm;  and,  what 
is  yet  more  important  to  him,  it  tastes  well.  It  is  cus- 
tomary with  us  to  eat  much  bread.  Bread  has  as  its  prin- 
cipal constituents,  starch  and  sugar,  and  if  it  has  been  well 
baked,  a  part  of  the  starch  is  already  saccharine,  that  is, 
it  is  nearly  transformed  into  sugar,  thus  greatly  facili- 
tating the  process  of  digestion.  French  naturalists  have 
lately  written  excellent  treatises  about  the  change  which 

(121) 


122  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

fresh  bread  undergoes  when  it  becomes  old.  They  prove 
that  bread  is  most  nutritive,  and  easiest  to  digest,  when 
about  a  day  old. 

Bread  is  changed  in  our  bodies  partly  into  fat,  as  all 
food  is  which  contains  starch.  But  this  formation  of  fat 
is  greatly  facilitated,  if  we  take  a  little  ready-made  fat 
with  it.  For  this  purpose  we  eat  butter  with  our  bread. 
Hence  we  see  that  some  people  are  wrong  when  they  be- 
lieve butter  to  be  a  mere  luxury;  on  the  contrary,  butter 
is  a  very  important  article  of  food,  more  especially  so  to 
children. 

The  reason  of  this  is,  that  the  fat  performs  a  conspicu- 
ous part  in  the  human  body;  it  serves  to  keep  up  the  pro- 
cess of  respiration.  The  oxygen  which  is  inhaled,  decom- 
poses the  fat  in  our  body  and  from  it  forms  water  and 
carbonic  acid.  The  water  evaporates  through  perspira- 
tion; the  carbonic  acid  is  exhaled  again.  Now,  if  there  is 
fat  in  us,  this  perspiration  and  exhalation  will  diminish  it; 
but  this  very  act  of  using  up  the  fat  preserves  our  flesh 
from  being  consumed  in  the  process  of  producing  carbonic 
acid  and  perspiration,  which,  if  there  were  no  fat,  would 
greatly  weaken  us.  Fat,  thus  to  speak,  is  the  spare-money, 
while  flesh  is  the  capital  in  the  body.  Fat  itself  does  not 
make  us  strong,  while  flesh  does.  But  where  there  is  no 
fat,  the  processes  of  perspiration  and  respiration  attack 
our  flesh,  which,  unless  abundantly  reinforced,  begins  to 
disappear  rapidly,  while  our  strength  begins  to  decrease 
more  and  more. 

Thence  it  comes  that  lean  persons  eat  much,  while  we 
often  are  astonished  to  see  how  little  food  is  taken  by  fat 
people.  The  lean  one  has  no  fat  to  meet  the  drain  pro- 
duced by  perspiration  and  respiration  ;  he  breathes  and 
perspires  accordingly  at  the  expense  of  his  flesh,  and,  there- 
fore, is  obliged  to  continually  take  in  a  fresh  supply  of  food. 
The  fat  person,  meanwhile,  does  not  live  on  his  capital, 


BREAKFAST.  123 

the  flesh  and  the  blood,  but  on  his  supply  of  fat;  as  it  were, 
he  pays  expenses  from  his  spare-money,  and  for  this  reason 
loses  very  little  in  strength. 

From  what  has  preceded,  it  follows  that  he  who  breathes 
much  and  perspires  much  when  at  work,  must  eat  much 
fat-producing  food,  and  besides  add  a  little  ready-made  fat; 
while  he  who  breathes  and  perspires  little,  needs  but  little 
of  that  kind  of  food.  This  accounts  for  the  circumstance 
that  in  winter,  when  the  air  is  denser,  and  therefore  one 
inhales  more  oxygen  and  thus  uses  more  fat  for  exhalation, 
we  must  eat  more  fat  food;  while  in  summer  every  one 
takes  less  of  it.  We  know  that  in  cold  countries  food  is 
taken  which,  on  account  of  its  containing  great  quantities 
of  fat,  would  in  hot  climates  produce  sickness. 

A  hearty  worker  perspires  much  at  his  labor,  and,  in 
consequence  of  his  increased  activity,  breathes  more  than 
the  quiet  and  sedentary;  he  must  therefore  eat  with  his 
breakfast  some  fat — bacon,  etc. — because  this  enables  him 
to  prevent  his  flesh  and  blood  from  decreasing.  His  body 
will  be  strong  and  powerful,  and  he  will  at  all  times  be 
able  to  earn  with  his  arm  more  than  his  stomach  costs 
him. 

But  let  no  one  believe,  therefore,  that  fat  alone  is  a  means 
of  food,  and,  above  all,  beware  of  the  mistake  that  read}7'- 
made  fat  is  healthier  to  eat  than  fat-producing  articles. 
Fine  experiments  have  been  made  about  the  feeding  of  ani- 
mals with  fat.  The  results  have  shown  that  fat  taken  alone 
is  injurious,  and  goes  off"  again  without  having  been  of 
any  use  to  the  body;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  fat-pro- 
ducing food  greatly  assists  the  fattening  of  animals. 

-He  who  has  seen  how  geese  are  fattened,  will  have  a  cor- 
rect idea  about  the  process  of  the  formation  of  fat  in  the 
human  body.  A  handful  of  dough  is  forced  into  the  mouth 
and  gullet  of  the  goose;  during  the  time  of  her  fattening 
she  is  shut  up  in  so  close  a  space  that  she  can  neither  rise 


124  OUR   ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

nor  walk  about.  The  poor  creature  is  thus  deprived  of 
evaporation  by  perspiration;  the  process  of  breathing  is 
rendered  very  difficult;  and,  because  she  breathes  and  per- 
spires little,  her  fat  does  not  change  into  carbonic  acid  and 
water,  but  collects  in  the  body  in  an  unusual  manner,  until 
finally  the  creature  is  relieved  from  her  pains  by  being 
killed.  We  see  that  her  fat  is  nothing  else  than  the  trans- 
formed starch  of  the  dough,  which  remained  in  the  body 
without  being  used.  If  we  should  try,  however,  to  feed  a 
goose  on  pure  fat  only,  she  would  not  fatten  at  all,  but  fall 
sick.  Pure  fat  must  only  be  taken  together  with  fat-pro- 
ducing food.  The  cause  of  this  is,  that  only  a  part  of  the 
intestines  secretes  a  juice  which  can  dissolve  fat;  while 
the  gastric  juice  in  the  stomach  does  not  dissolve  the  fat  at 
all,  but  allows  it  to  float  on  the  surface,  as  fat  does  in 
water. 

Our  readers  will  now  find  it  natural  that  a  workman  who 
perspires  and  breathes  much,  should  by  all  means  take 
but  little  bacon  for  breakfast;  and  this  he  must  eat  only 
on  those  days  when  he  has  much  work  before  him;  and 
then  he  must  not  eat  it  without  bread. 


CHAPTEE   VII. 

LIQUOR. 

Is  it  advisable  to  take  a  "  drink"  before  breakfast  ? 

This  is  a  question  of  the  greatest  importance,  and  re- 
quires a  very  clear  and  impartial  answer;  for  which  our 
space  is  almost  too  limited. 

Liquor  is  no  article  of  food;  if  for  a  moment  it  were 
considered  as  such,  we  should  find  that  it  is  even  less  nu- 
tritious than  water  with  sugar  in  it.  What  makes  liquor 
a  necessary  article,  especially  so  to  the  working-classes, 
is  a  certain  quality  it  possesses,  a  quality  just  as  danger- 
ous as  it  is  good. 

Liquor  is  a  favorite  beverage  because  of  the  alcohol  it 
contains;  this  is  nothing  else  than  sugar  which  has  under- 
gone fermentation.  Alcohol  may  be  made  from  all  those 
plants  from  which  starch  can  be  obtained;  for,  by  the 
proper  process,  starch  may  be  changed  into  gluten,  gluten 
into  sugar,  and  sugar  into  alcohol.  Alcohol  therefore  con- 
veys more  nutriment  to  the  human  body  than  sugar  itself, 
while  it  has  qualities  that  the  sugar  does  not  possess,  and 
which  make  it  an  article  as  popular  as  it  is  dangerous.  If 
taken  in  small  quantities,  alcohol  affects  the  body  like 
medicine;  in  large  portions,  like  poison.  We  are  therefore 
not  surprised  if  partly  we  cannot  do  without  it,  and  if,  on 
the  other  hand,  we  hear  it  condemned  every  day.  What 
makes  its  enjoyment  so  very  dangerous  is,  that  although 
it  is  no  article  of  food,  it  offers  to  the  hungry  a  kind  of 
substitute  for  food,  and,  what  is  wor«se,  a  substitute  which 
is  often  the  cheapest,  and  of  most  rapid  effect  in  regard  to 

(126) 


126  OUR   ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

quieting  one's  appetite.  It  is  owing  to  this  that  its  enjoy- 
ment may  produce  the  most  fatal  and  pernicious  evils  that 
ever  were  inflicted  upon  unhappy  man. 

Let  us  now  learn  the  medicinal  qualities  of  liquor,  so 
that  we  may  see  that  it  is  natural  for  it  to  be  a  favorite; 
and  by  exhibiting  the  dangers  of  its  enjoyment,  we  shall 
succeed  best  in  showing  that  people  are  justified  in  con- 
demning its  intemperate  use;  but  it  will  also  be  seen  that, 
in  spite  of  the  evident  hurtfulness,  its  entire  banishment 
would  be  a  foolishness  not  resulting  in  good. 

Liquor,  if  taken  in  a  very  small  dose,  possesses  the 
quality  of  increasing  the  quantity  of  gastric  juices.  It 
excites  the  sides  of  the  stomach,  and  by  this  promotes  the 
secretion  of  the  juice  by  which  food  is  dissolved.  It  often 
occurs,  that  if  but  a  minute  quantity  of  fat  has  been  taken,  it 
envelops  the  food  in  the  stomach;  and  as  the  gastric  juice 
dissolves  fat  only  with  great  difficulty,  this  food  often  re- 
mains undigested  in  the  stomach,  and  nutrition  then  is  car- 
ried on  but  defectively.  Digestion,  therefore,  may  be 
greatly  improved,  if  the  stomach  is  so  affected  as  to  secrete 
a  greater  quantity  of  gastric  juice;  this  is  often  done  by 
means  of  spice — for  example,  by  putting  a  little  pepper 
upon  bacon  or  ham.  The  pepper  itself  does  not  help  dissolve 
food,  but  excites  the  salivary  glands  and  the  stomach,  thus 
increasing  the  gastric  juice  which  performs  digestion. 

If  fat  has  been  eaten,  the  same  effect  may  be  produced 
by  a  little  liquor.  Indeed,  it  is  even  preferable  to  spice; 
inasmuch  as  it  contains  ether,  which  alone  is  able  to  dis. 
solve  fat. 

Thus  we  have  seen  that  liquor  is  a  kind  of  medicine. 
And  although  every  one  must  strive  to  do  without  medi- 
cine, still  he  must  not  condemn  it;  he  should  scorn  rather 
the  wantonness  which  throws  itself  on  the  mercy  of  medi- 
cine. It  is  right  to  oppose  the  enjoyment  of  much  fat;  but 
if  once  too  much  of  it  has  been  taken,  there  is  no  reason 


LIQUOR.  127 

why  we  should  remonstrate  against  the  medical  applica- 
tion of  a  small  quantity  of  liquor.  To  those  who  believe 
that  they  see  in  alcohol  the  evil  spirit  himself,  it  may  some 
time  or  other  happen,  that  even  they  eat  a  little  too  much 
fat,  and  then  seek  relief  by  taking  some  patent  or  other 
medicine,  dropped  on  sugar.  Most  medicines  used  in  such 
cases,  however,  are  nothing  but  mixtures  of  sulphuric  ether 
and  alcohol;  and  if  alcohol  is  the  evil  spirit,  he  is  certainly 
not  changed  into  an  angel  by  putting  him  on  sugar. 

But  liquor  has  yet  another  effect  of  great  importance. 

The  alcohol  it  contains  is  immediately  conveyed  to  the 
blood;  through  this  it  affects  the  brain  and  the  nerves,  ex- 
citing them  to  increased  activity.  By  also  affecting  the 
nerves  of  the  heart,  it  accelerates  the  circulation  of  the 
blood;  this  produces  throughout  the  body  a  more  rapid 
vital  activity. 

"Wine/5  the  Bible  says,  "maketh  glad  the  heart  of 
man." 

And  wine  itself  is  nothing  else  but  an  alcohol-combina- 
tion. The  animating  element  in  wine  is  the  same  as  the 
one  in  liquor  But  it  makes  man's  heart  glad;  which 
means  as  much  as,  it  increases  our  vital  activity ;  it  rouses; 
it  strengthens  the  weary  and  him  who  is  exhausted  bodily 
or  mentally;  it  excites  the  body  as  well  as  the  mind  to  more 
vigorous  action.  Taken  in  very  small  quantity,  liquor  has 
the  same  effect.  It  is  therefore  not  only  good  for  diges- 
tion, but  also  a  prompt  remedy  for  exhaustion.  The  rean- 
imation,  however,  produced  by  the  use  of  stimulants,  is  by 
no  means  a  real  gain;  for  he  who  feels  tired  and  weary  is 
best  restored  by  nature  herself.  Artificial  stimulation  is 
followed  by  a  greater  reaction,  by  which  all  is  lost  again 
that  has  been  gained  by  artificial  animation.  Yet  many 
cases  occur  in  human  life  when  there  is  no  time  for  the 
natural  restoration  of  strength  lost;  thus,  when  it  is  pref- 
erable to  complete  one's  task  without  delay,  without  rest 


128  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

until  it  is  finished.  In  such  cases  the  desire  for  artificial 
stimulants  is  easily  explained;  then  we  ought  not  to  con- 
demn a  moderate  use  of  them,  because  that  use  is  neces- 
sary. 

The  wanderer  on  his  travels,  the  soldier  in  camp  or  bat- 
tle, have  often  neither  time  nor  opportunity  to  refresh 
themselves  with  a  meal,  or  to  recruit  strength  by  a  good 
rest.  With  them  it  is  important  to  complete  their  journey 
or  task,  and  to  rest  afterwards.  A  common  workman  may, 
at  times,  be  in  the  same  situation.  In  such  cases  a  little 
brandy  is  of  great  service.  It  increases  vital  activity  and 
courage;  in  many  countries  the  army  is  for  this  reason 
permitted  to  use  liquor,  although,  of  course,  sparingly. 

Having  now  spoken  of  the  medicinal  use  of  liquor,  we 
wish  to  examine  more  closely  its  dangers,  and  to  explain 
the  reason  why  its  enjoyment  is  to  many  so  great  a  temp- 
tation as  often  to  become  a  passion. 

A  slight  quantity  of  liquor  taken  at  breakfast,  makes 
one  feel  increased  vital  activity.  The  pulse  beats  quicker, 
the  mind  is  stirred  up,  digestion  easier,  and  before  the  food 
has  been  transformed  into  blood,  we  feel  animated  to  vig- 
orous bodily  activity  and  motion.  The  enjoyment  of  spirit 
fills  the  long  pause  between  the  meal  itself  and  its  change 
into  blood.  He  who  feels  exhausted  and  eats,  has  yet  but 
satisfied  the  demands  of  the  stomach,  without  therewith 
replenishing  his  blood.  It  takes  a  long  time,  often  from 
five  to  six  hours,  before  the  blood  is  directly  benefited.  It 
is  owing  to  this,  that  after  dinner  we  do  not  feel  lively, 
but  inactive,  disposed  to  rest.  Now,  he  who  after  dinner 
cannot  rest,  but  must  continue  to  work,  is  anxious  to  stim- 
ulate himself  by  a  dram  of  liquor,  because  this  will  act  more 
quickly  than  the  food  he  has  taken.  The  spirits  he  took 
fill  the  long  pause  which  exists  between  his  meal  and  its 
complete  transformation  into  blood. 

Is  it  any  longer  surprising,  that  it  is  the  workmen  who 


LIQUOR.  129 

mostly  are  subject  to  the  use  of  spirits  ?  No,  we  are  not 
surprised;  we  feel  sorry  that  they  are  not  taught  better; 
that  instead  of  imparting  to  the  people  a  knowledge  of 
things  useful  to'  the  preservation  of  health,  we  constantly 
remind  them  of  the  "devil  and  hell;"  and  that  in  place  of 
teaching  them,  by  the  study  of  nature,  how  to  avoid  errors 
and  dangers,  we  merely  try  to  frighten  them  with  future 
punishments. 

The  danger  of  spirits  consists  in  this,  that  their  good 
qualities,  their  advantageous  effects,  manifest  themselves 
immediately,  while  their  evils  appear  later.  Liquor  is  not 
unlike  a  man  whose  virtues  are  laid  open  to  every  one; 
whose  vices,  however,  are  hidden,  and  who  therefore  is  se. 
ductive  and  dangerous,  If  we  wish  to  warn  our  fellow- 
men  against  such  a  one,  we  must  not  do  it  by  denying  or 
concealing  his  virtues ;  on  .the  contrary,  we  must  openly 
tell  all  his  good  qualities;  the  warning  in  which  we  lay 
bare  his  vices,  will  then  be  more,  all  the  more  readily 
heeded. 

True,  liquor  is  a  medicine;  but,  like  every  other  medical 
remedy,  it  becomes  poisonous  in  the  body  of  him  who  puts 
himself  continually  in  such  a  condition  as  to  be  obliged  to 
use  it. 

He  who  wishes  to  preserve  his  health,  must  not  try  to 
help  nature  by  artificial  means;  he  will  only  become  weak. 
To  illustrate  this  by  an  example  :  it  is  a  well-known  fact, 
that  milk  contains  all  the  constituent  parts  of  the  blood; 
but  if  we  were  to  feed  a  man  merely  on  milk,  those  organs 
given  him  by  nature  to  digest  solid  food,  would  weaken  to 
such  a  degree  that  he  would  fall  mortally  ill.  Man  is  healthy 
only  when  he  permits  nature  the  free  and  unlimited  exer- 
cise of  her  functions;  if  he  helps  nature  too  much  he  may 
kill  himself.  It  is  similar  with  the  use  of  liquor.  The 
person  who  only  now  and  then  corrects  nature,  that  is, 
when  she  actually  needs  it,  is  perfectly  right.  But  he 


130  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

•% 

is  very  wrong1  and  harms  himself  greatly,  who  wishes  to 
assist  nature  when  she  needs  no  help.  Unfortunately,  the 
latter  is  very  often  the  case,  and  the  prime  source  of  evil. 
The  ignorant,  having  once  had  the  experience  that  brandy 
promotes  digestion,  thinks  it  is  good  for  him  to  continue 
to  help  his  stomach;  but  he  is  greatly  mistaken.  By  ac- 
customing his  stomach  to  secrete  gastric  juice  only  after 
the  partaking  of  brandy,  he  weakens  it;  the  natural  diges- 
tion becomes  defective  through  this;  and  the  enjoyment  of 
spirits,  at  first  a  medical  remedy,  rapidly  becomes  an  in- 
dispensable necessity^  with  all  its  evil  consequences. 


CHAPTER    VIII. 

INJURIOUSNESS   OF  DRINKING-  LIQUOR. 

HE  who  accustoms  his  stomach  to  secrete  gastric  juice 
only  after  a  stimulus  effected  by  spirits,  destroys  his  di- 
gestive power.  Unhappy  man  !  He  is  no  longer  able  to 
digest  food,  unless  he  stimulate  his  stomach  with  liquor. 
The  already  weak  stomach  is,  by  this  habit,  weakened 
more  and  more.  Soon  a  small  quantity  will  no  longer  suf- 
fice ;  a  larger  portion  must  effect  what  formerly  was  done 
by  the  smaller;  this  goes  further  and  further,  until  finally 
the  drinker  becomes — a  drunkard. 

It  is  well  to  look  at  the  terrible  consequences  of  such  a 
condition  more  closely,  to  obtain  a  clear  idea  of  it;  and  to 
examine  all  the  circumstances  which  unfortunately  produce 
it,  mostly  among  the  poorer  and  working  classes. 

The  condition  of  an  intoxicated  person  is  to  be  distin- 
guished from  that  of  a  regular  drunkard.  The  former  has 
taken  alcohol;  it  goes  into  the  blood,  arrives  in  the  brain, 
and  excites  the  nerves  to  increased  action.  The  nerves  of 
the  heart  are  also  affected  by  it,  and  cause  violent  beating 
of  the  heart  and  pulse.  The  blood  courses  through  the 
veins  and  rushes  to  the  brain.  This  produces  illusions  of 
the  senses,  and  confusion  of  sensations ;  sparks  before  the 
eyes;  buzzing  in  the  ears;  dizziness,  which  makes  the  walk 
unsteady;  redness  of  the  skin  and  eyes;  increased  perspi- 
ration; greater  activity  in  the  lungs;  a  shorter  and  more 
rapid  breathing;  excitement  of  the  mind  to  anger,  and 
dimness  of  the  faculties  of  judgment,  causing  the  inebriate 
to  believe  that  he  possesses  superior  strength.  If  he  be- 


132  OUR   ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

gins  to  move  about,  these  manifestations,  and  especially 
the  dizziness,  increase;  the  slightest  obstacle  in  the  road 
causes  him  to  stumble  or  fall ;  he  cannot  raise  himself  to 
his  feet,  nor  can  he  sit  up ;  but,  lying  on  the  ground,  he  is 
unconscious  of  everything  around  him;  overcome  with 
complete  exhaustion — the  effect  of  the  reaction — he  at  last 
falls  asleep;  but  his  sleep  does  not  rest  him,  although,  if 
sufficiently  long,  it  will  restore  the  unfortunate  to  con- 
sciousness. He  now  suffers  from  that  peculiar  fatigue  and 
lassitude  which  usually  follow  intoxication. 

To  this  abject  state  every  one  is  brought  who  in  the  en- 
joyment of  spirits  loses  self-control.  It  is  an  unworthy, 
disgraceful  and  disgusting  condition;  but  even  the  best  of 
men  may  once  fall  into  it;  all  the  more  so,  if  he  is  no  ha- 
bitual drinker.  Strictly  speaking,  this  subject  belongs  to 
another  chapter;  it  belongs  to  that  of  intemperance,  dis- 
soluteness or  bad  society.  If  such  a  calamity  has  befallen 
g^n  otherwise  good  man,  let  him  amend  his  bodily  ache  by 
a  cold  bath ;  and  his  moral  ache  by  an  earnest  vow  not  to 
do  the  like  again. 

Far  more  serious,  however,  is  the  lot  of  the  real  drunk- 
ard. This  belongs  to  the  chapter  on  nutrition,  for  it  is 
true,  we  are  sorry  to  say,  that  drunkards  are  produced 
mostly  through  want  of  proper  nutriment;  and  it  is  always 
the  case  that  constant  intemperance  is  accompanied  by 
that  sickly  condition  in  which  the  stomach  is  unable  to  di- 
gest solid  food. 

In  a  word,  he  who  has  accustomed  his  stomach  to  per- 
form digestion  only  after  the  use  of  stimulants,  has  laid 
the  foundation  for  drunkenness.  With  wealthy  people,  we 
know  it  to  be  frequently  the  case,  that  they  take  something 
"strong"  in  order  to  promote  digestion;  but  the  danger  is 
here  less  great.  For  if  the  rich  be  convinced  of  his 
wrong,  even  at  a  late  period,  he  can  yet  proceed  in  his  re- 
form energetically.  He  can  afford  to  take  liquid,  easily 


INJURIOUSNESS    OF  DRINKING   LIQUOR  133 

digestible  food  instead  of  solid.  He  will  eat  little  meat, 
but  that  little  very  savory  and  prepared  in  a  manner  to  be 
easily  digested.  He  will  choose  but  light  vegetables.  He 
will  flavor  his  breakfast  with  caviare  and  lemon;  and  at 
dinner  he  will  relish  rich  stewed  fruit,  by  means  of  which 
appetite  and  digestion  are  increased.  Should  he  not  feel 
strengthened  immediately  after  dinner,  he  has  sufficient 
time  to  wait  till  his  food  is  transformed  into  blood.  He 
takes  a  nap  after  dinner,  and  a  pleasant  walk  in  the  open 
air,  to  get  an  appetite  for  his  well-selected  supper. 

Now,  all  these  are  excellent  means  to  restore  the  wealthy 
man's  appetite  and  digestive  powers,  even  if  he  has  gone 
so  far  in  drinking  as  to  weaken  his  stomach.  It  is  not  vir- 
tue and  temperance  that  causes  the  less  number  of  drunk- 
ards among  the  rich,  but  the  ready  compensation  they  can 
afford,  to  cure  themselves.  And  it  not  unfrequently  occurs, 
that  when  the  rich  man  loses  his  fortune,  or,  in  other  words, 
when  he  becomes  poor,  he  becomes,  a  drunkard.  People 
generally  excuse  this,  saying,  "  it  is  from  despair;"  but^he 
truth  is,  that  now  he  can  no  longer  afford  the  costly  com- 
pensation which  previously  preserved  him  from  such  a 
fate. 

But  what  will  the  poor  do  in  such  a  case  more  especially 
the  workman  ? 


CHAPTEK    IX. 

THE   POOR  AND  THE  LIQUOR. 

THE  poor  workman  who  has  accustomed  his  stomach  to 
perform  digestion  only  through  the  excitement  of  a  pre- 
vious stimulant,  cannot,  even  if  he  knows  the  miserable 
condition  he  is  in,  abandon  this  bad  habit  without  almost 
superhuman  efforts. 

Working  makes  him  hungry;  but  his  stomach  not  being 
able  to  digest  solid  food,  eating  becomes  disagreeable  to 
him.  His  relaxing  strength,  however,  demands  support. 
His  vital  activity  is  suppressed;  he  must  have  afresh  sup- 
ply of  strength  to  be  able  to  work  and  earn  his  living. 
To  accomplish  this,  he  knows  no  other  means  than  liquor 
again  !  For,  unfortunately,  experience  has  taught  him 
that  spirits  not  only  stimulate  him  for  the  moment  and  in. 
crease  his  vital  activity,  but  that  they  can  also  be  to  him 
a  kind  of  substitute  for  food. 

It  was  not  until  quite  recently  that  science  told  us  how 
and  in  what  manner  the  use  of  spirits  may  actually  pro- 
mote the  working  power  of  the  starving.  It  is  of  the  ut- 
most importance  to  obtain  a  correct  idea  of  this. 

Work  promotes  evaporation  and  respiration.  Evapora- 
tion, however,  that  is  perspiration  proper,  is  nothing  but  a 
part  of  the  food  we  have  taken,  and  which  is  thus  secreted 
from  the  body.  Precisely  the  same  holds  good  with  the 
breath  we  exhale;  it  consists  of  carbonic  acid,  which  is 
likewise  tormed  from  the  food  we  have  taken.  A  man  in 
state  of  rest  does  not  perspire  and  breathe  so  much  as  the 
man  at  work;  therefore  he  needs  less  food.  If,  on  the  other 

(134) 


THE    TOOK    AND   THE    LIQUOR.  135 

hand,  a  person  works  without  taking  food,  the  perspiration 
arid  carbonic  acid  of  the  breath  are  formed  from  the  mus- 
cles of  his  body;  for  which  reason  he  must  greatly  de- 
crease, both  in  strength  and  volume.  We  must  bear  in 
mind,  however,  that  it  is  one  of  the  qualities  of  spirits  to 
be  decomposed  in  the  body  very  easily  into  water  and  car- 
bonic acid;  the  water  is  then  secreted  in  the  form  of  per- 
spiration; the  carbonic  acid,  by  exhalation.  Thus,  if  a  man 
works  without  food,  he  becomes  reduced  immediately,  be- 
cause perspiration  and  breath  are  supplied  from  the  flesh 
of  his  body;  while  if  he  drinks  liquor,  perspiration  and 
breath  are  formed  from  the  liquor  itself,  instead  of  his 
body,  which  thus,  partly  at  least,  remains  intact. 

This  is  the  solution  of  the  great  problem,  viz.,  "  How  can 
drunkards  live  a  long  time  on  nothing  but  spirits,  and, 
moreover,  how  can  they  work  ?  "  We  know  it  now  ;  liquor 
furnishes  them  the  material  for  perspiration  and  breath ; 
and  their  body  is  not  nearly  so  much  taxed  as  would  be 
the  case,  if  they  were  to  take  no  spirits  at  all.  Since,  then, 
the  drunkard  cannot  eat,  and  even  if  he  could,  would  not 
be  nourished,  because  food  passes  through  him  undigested, 
he  must  needs  continue  taking  spirits  even  if  he  works 
but  little.  Spirits  help  him  at  his  work,  and  save  his  body 
from  being  consumed. 

That  spirits  are  no  articles  of  food,  has  been  known  long; 
but  it  was  not  known  until  recently,  why  spirits  can  be  a 
substitute  for  food,  or,  more  correctly,  a  kind  of  saving  of 
food. 

Unfortunately,  liquor  is  as  deplorable  as  a  substitute  as 
it  is  fatal  as  a  means  of  saving.  It  is  only  calculated  to 
entirely  destroy  the  doomed  man  that  uses  it. 

Now,  is  it  not  more  judicious  to  understand  the  reason 
why  the  drunkard  cannot  abstain  from  spirits,  than  to  en- 
deavor to  reform  him  merely  by  "  prayer  "  and  stories  about 
the  "  devil  in  the  alcohol  ? "  And  is  it  not  of  the  highest  im- 


136  OUR   ARTICLES    OF   FOOD. 

portance  to  all,  that  the  friends  of  humanity  should  take 
care  that  the  workman  has  good  and  healthy  food,  and  that 
he  be  always  able  to  earn  enough,  so  as  not  to  be  obliged 
to  replace  bad  food  by  liquor  ? 

The  workman  who  has  nothing  but  potatoes  to  eat,  is 
bound  to  become  a  drunkard.  This  food  is  insufficient  to 
afford  him  a  proper  quantity  of  carbonic  acid  for  the  pur- 
pose of  breathing;  he  therefore  must  draw  for  this  from 
his  body,  and,  since  he  must  needs  work  for  his  living,  he 
takes  to  spirits  to  save  his  body  from  being  consumed. 
Many  an  "  Apostle  of  Temperance  "  would,  in  a  similar  situ- 
ation, act  no  better.  For  this  reason  let  us  all  provide 
healthy  food  for  the  working  class ;  intemperance  will  then 
greatly  diminish. 

Owing  to  the  importance  of  the  subject  we  have  spent 
much  time  over  "  Breakfast,"  and  the  chapter  on  "  Spirits  n 
connected  with  the  same;  but  we  could  not  help  it;  nay, 
we  must  ask  our  readers'  pardon  for  continuing  the  sub- 
ject. We  propose  to  touch  upon  the  sad  consequences  of 
intemperance,  and  desire  to  give  the  wives  of  the  work- 
men a  hint,  by  which  they  may  succeed  in  checking  the 
vice  of  their  husbands  and  the  misfortune  of  their  families. 


CHAPTEK    X. 

THE  CONSEQUENCES  OF  INTEMPERANCE  AND  ITS  PRE- 
VENTION. 

THE  digestion  of  the  drunkard,  as  we  have  seen,  is 
greatly  impaired ;  the  process  of  nutrition  entirely  changed. 
There  is  a  change  in  the  tissues  of  the  interior  of  the  body. 
The  inner  organs  are  encumbered  by  fat ;  even  under 
the  very  skin,  layers  of  fat  are  formed.  It  is  this  that  gives 
the  drunkard  that  bloated  appearance,  which  is  very  char- 
acteristic, and  an  evidence  of  the  fact  that  the  evil  has 
reached  a  high  stage.  The  stomach  and  the  heart,  the  lat- 
ter now  much  enlarged,  are  in  an  unnatural  manner  envel- 
oped by  fat.  The  action  of  the  heart,  at  times  immod- 
erately increased,  at  times  fearfully  lessened,  causes  the 
blood  to  rush  impetuously  even  to  the  finest  blood-vessels 
of  the  skin,  and  to  widen  them  considerably.  Hence  the 
reddened  face  of  the  drunkard.  The  chest  being  overbur- 
dened with  fat,  the  lungs  are  unable  to  expand  properly, 
and  cannot  therefore  feed  the  blood  with  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  oxygen,  which  would  make  the  blood  red;  therefore 
we  notice  that  the  drunkard's  blood  is  of  a  bluish  color; 
his  nose  is  blue,  his  lips,  and  often  his  whole  face,  have  a 
bluish  hue.  His  mind  is  always  clouded,  the  activity  of 
his  nerves  partly  increased,  partly  weakened;  his  hands 
begin  to  tremble,  and  become  unsteady;  soon  his  very  feet 
refuse  to  serve.  His  breath  is  in  the  beginning  saturated 
with  alcohol,  so  that  it  can  be  smelled;  in  a  little  while 
perspiration,  nay  the  whole  body,  is  imbued  with  alcohol, 
and  cases  have  been  known  in  which  the  body,  on  coming 

(137) 


138  OUR   ARTICLES    OF   FOOD. 

in  contact  with  fire,  began  to  burn,  as  a  wick  dipped  in 
alcohol,  inflicting  a  terrible  death  upon  the  unfortunate 
victim.  Many  die  from  apoplexy  or  paralysis  of  the  brain, 
in  most  cases  preceded  by  delirium  tremens.  When  it  is 
considered  that  all  this  has  its  beginning  only  in  this,  that 
the  unhappy  man  has  accustomed  himself  to  promote  di- 
gestion by  means  of  spirits — when  this  is  well  considered, 
no  one  will  find  it  strange  that  we  wish  to  discourage  from 
the  use  of  liquor  everybody,  especially,  however,  those 
among  the  laboring  classes  who  work  with  fire.  He  who 
takes  proper  care  of  himself  will  always  know  how  much 
of  spirits  he  can  take  and  when  he  must  use  it;  then,  and 
only  then,  the  enjoyment  of  the  article  in  question  cannot 
be  considered  a  crime. 

It  is  difficult  to  present  to  our  readers  a  general  rule  for 
temperance,  yet  we  may  here  state  a  principle,  the  earnest 
observance  of  which  we  heartily  recommend. 

There  are  many  people  who  say  :  "  I  can  stand  a  little 
liquor  very  well."  They  mean  by  this  that  a  little  liquor 
does  not  intoxicate  them.  But  this  is  a  dangerous  stand- 
ard to  take.  Not  the  possibility  of  intoxication,  but  the 
welfare  of  one's  stomach  should  be  consulted.  As  long  as 
breakfast  can  be  digested  without  the  use  of  spirits  there 
is  no  danger,  even  if  after  having  eaten  fat,  bacon,  etc.,  a 
desire  for  liquor  should  be  felt;  but  when  a  person  must 
needs  take  spirits  after  his  breakfast  in  order  to  be  able  to 
digest  it,  then  the  danger  becomes  imminent,  and  it  is  high 
time  to  consult  a  physician  about  this  seemingly  insignifi- 
cant circumstance;  it  is  best  to  tell  him  frankly  the  object 
of  the  visit,  viz.,  the  desire  to  avoid  the  cheap  remedy,  the 
liquor.  If  the  physician  be  the  right  man  he  will  gladly 
spend  advice  and  help. 

In  such  cases,  however,  the  housewife  can  do  even  more 
than  the  doctor. 

The  attentive  housewife  will  notice  the  bad  condition 


THE  CONSEQUENCES  OF  INTEMPERANCE,  ETC.      139 

of  her  husband's  stomach,  and  if  she  is  judicious  and 
wishes  to  be  the  benefactress  of  her  household,  she  can,  by 
a  small  sacrifice,  easily  prevent  great  misfortune.  Above 
all,  she  must  bear  in  mind  that  only  a  well-fed  husband  can 
support  her  and  her  children.  It  is  a  shame  that  we  often 
see  a  housewife  treat  her  husband  in  this  respect  worse 
than  a  horse.  The  owner  of  a  horse  knows  that  his  horse 
cannot  render  him  good  service  unless  he  feeds  the  animal 
well;  why  should  woman  not  comprehend  that  man,  her 
husband  and  provider,  must  be  properly  cared  for  ?  Let 
every  good  wife  bear  in  mind,  that  if  her  husband  takes  to 
drinking,  it  is  mostly  owing  to  her  own  bad  and  careless 
management  of  her  kitchen ;  let  her  hasten  to  remedy  the 
evil.  Although  it  may  cost  her  a  sacrifice,  yet  she  owes  it 
to  herself  and  her  family  to  provide  her  husband  with  a 
cup  of  broth,  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  when  his 
stomach  is  weakened.  At  times  she  may  surprise  him  with 
a  favorite  dish  for  breakfast,  which  he  will  eat  with  a 
relish.  And  let  her  be  especially  careful  not  to  cause  him 
grief  or  anger  at  his  return  home,  but  let  her  rather  pre- 
pare for  him  a  good  savory  dinner,  for  which  he  then  will 
save  all  his  appetite. 

Such  and  similar  insignificant  acts  of  womanly  kind- 
ness preserve  often  husband,  wife,  and  children  from  dis- 
grace; while  the  dutiful  wife  earns  the  esteem  and  grati- 
tude of  her  family  and  of  her  country.  This  is  a  merit 
which  in  course  of  time  will  be  duly  rewarded. 


CHAPTEE   XI  . 

DINNER. 

WE  wish  to  speak  now  of  dinner,  the  principal  meal  of 
the  day.  Here,  too,  we  shall  take  for  standard  neither  the 
unhappy  poor,  who  must  eat  what  little  he  can  obtain ;  nor 
the  opulent  rich,  who  finds  a  pleasure  in  eating  what  others 
cannot  obtain.  We  shall  take  for  base  the  plain  household 
of  the  citizen,  who  takes  healthy  meals  in  order  to  strengthen 
him  for  renewed  activity. 

What  may  have  been  the  reason  for  putting  the  princi- 
pal meal  in  the  middle  of  the  day  ? 

It  was  done  for  the  reason  that  eating,  too,  is  a  labor;  a 
labor  which  requires  rest.  Now  bodily  fatigue  and  appe- 
tite constantly  keep  pace  with  each  other;  they  manifest 
themselves  in  the  body  in  intervals  of  three  or  four  hours. 
Since,  then,  we  must  rest  at  noon  from  the  fatigue  of  the 
morning's  labor,  it  is  best  for  us  to  use  this  time  of  rest 
for  our  dinner;  all  the  more  so  as  the  labor  of  eating  ought 
not  to  be  performed  during  manual  labor.  And  because 
just  at  the  middle  of  the  day  we  rest  from  our  labor  and 
prepare  ourselves  for  the  afternoon  work,  it  is  natural  that 
we  should  eat  our  principal  meal  at  that  time. 

But  this  meal  needs  to  be  prepared  carefully.  The  house- 
wife is  chained  to  the  kitchen,  because  this  meal  is  dis- 
tinguished from  others  principally  in  this,  that  it  is  usually 
taken  warm. 

The  question  arises  in  the  first  place,  Why  must  food 
be  cooked  ?  Is  it  not  more  natural  to  take  the  food  as  na- 
ture gives  it  to  us?  Why  does  man  eat  nothing  raw 

(140) 


DINNER.  HI 

except  fruit?  Why  does  he  take  such  pains  to  grind, 
bake,  boil,  fry,  etc.,  while  the  animal  can  live  without  all 
this  ?  Again,  whence  does  it  come,  that  man  is  so  very 
dainty  in  regard  to  eating  and  drinking,  and  that  he  uses 
an  infinite  variety  of  articles  of  food,  as  does  no  other 
creature  in  the  world  ?  Are  there  not  animals  that  live  on 
meat  only,  and  others  that  live  only  on  plants?  Why, 
then,  does  man  need  mixed  food,  that  is,  partly  meat  and 
partly  vegetable  food  ? 

To  all  these  questions  there  is  but  one  answer. 

Nature  herself  has  pointed  this  out  to  man;  and  expe- 
rience, the  natural  instructor  of  mankind,  has  taught  man 
how  he  can  do  best  what  nature  wishes  him  to  do. 

The  human  stomach  is  so  constituted  that  it  can  digest 
but  very  little  of  raw  food.  Just  as  the  nutritive  part  of 
the  pea  is  enclosed  by  a  hull,  so  in  every  organic  food  the 
nutritive  element  proper  is  contained  in  a  hull,  called  cell- 
The  nutritive  element  of  the  potato,  for  example — the 
starch — is  enclosed  in  millions  of  small  cells,  which  are 
indigestible  for  our  stomach.  By  means  of  good  magni- 
fying glasses,  these  cells,  invisible  to  the  naked  eye,  may 
be  plainly  seen.  If  the  potato  were  eaten  raw,  these  cells, 
together  with  the  nutritive  element  in  them,  would  leave 
the  body  unchanged.  But  if  the  potato  is  boiled,  fried,  or 
baked,  the  cells,  by  their  expansion  from  the  heat,  burst, 
and  thus  allow  the  starch  to  be  free.  Now,  while  animals 
have  been  given  a  digestive  apparatus  strong  enough  to 
dissolve  the  hardest  cells — pigeons,  for  example,  swallow 
and  are  able  to  digest  raw  pease — man  has  been  endowed 
with  intelligence  which  enables  him  to  prepare  his  food 
artificially. 

Cooking,  therefore,  is  as  natural  to  man  as  the  act  of 
chewing;  for  chewing,  the  crushing  of  food  with  the  teeth, 
on  the  part  of  animals  that  live  on  plants,  is  nothing  but 
the  tearing  asunder  of  cells.  Animals  that  have  no  teeth, 


142  OUR   ARTICLES   OF    FOOD. 

birds  for  example,  possess  immensely  strong  powers  of 
digestion.  It  would  be  as  unnatural  for  the  ox,  who  has 
good  teeth  to  crush  peas  with,  to  swallow  them  entire  as 
the  pigeon  does,  as  it  were  unnatural  for  man  to  take  pease 
raw  while  he  has  the  means  of  cooking  them. 

We  often  call  art  what  really  is  nature  in  man;  for  his 
mental  gifts  are  natural  to  him;  women,  therefore,  when 
they  perform  the  art  of  cooking,  practise  a  natural  art. 


CHAPTEK    XII. 

NECESSITY  FOB  VARIETY  IN  FOOD. 

LET  no  one  believe  that  it  is  from  mere  daintiness  that 
man  is  fastidious  in  regard  to  food,  and  that  he  lives  on  a 
great  variety  of  victuals. 

The  human  body  is  the  transformed  food  which  he  has 
eaten.  It  is  quite  correct  that  man  can  live  on  bread  and 
water  a  long  time;  but  man's  nature  is  so  varied,  his  qual- 
ities are  of  such  numerous  kinds;  his  character,  his  im- 
pulses and  passions,  his  wishes  and  desires,  his  thoughts 
and  labors,  are  so  infinitely  varined  and  so  much  exposed 
to  change,  that  man's  body,  the  bearer  of  all  these  elements, 
must  also  be  formed  from  material  of  the  most  diversified 
kind. 

It  is  a  common  observation  that  animals  which  take  uni- 
form food  are  very  much  poorer  in  mind  than  those  animals 
that  feed  upon  richer  and  more  various  kinds  of  food.  Nay, 
it  has  even  been  proved  that  the  character,  the  whole  na- 
ture of  an  animal  may  be  completely  changed  by  its  food. 
Very  properly,  therefore,  does  the  genial  naturalist,  Mole- 
schott,  begin  his  excellent  treatise,  "  Our  Articles  of  Food," 
with  the  following  words:  "Food  has  made  the  wild-cat 
our  house-cat;"  thus  showing  that  food  may  completely 
change  the  character  of  an  animal,  and  more,  it  may  even 
change  the  animal's  body.  And  if  civilized  man  is  a  being 
of  a  higher  order,  more  spiritual  and  more  intellectual  than 
the  savage,  we  can  ascribe  it  to  no  other  cause  than  the 
impulse  his  food  gives  him,  not  to  sink  down  to  the  savage, 

(143) 


144  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

but,  by  varying  his  food  as  much  as  possible,  to  bestow 
upon  his  body  many  superior  qualities. 

Nature  herself  has  undeniably  impressed  upon  man,  that 
she  wishes  him  to  take  nourishment  of  different  kinds. 

Those  animals  that  live  upon  plants,  and  such  as  feed 
solely  on  meat,  are  entirely  different  from  each  other  in 
regard  to  their  bodies.  The  teeth  of  the  former,  the 
herbivorous,  are  broad  and  flat  on  the  top,  like  our  molar 
teeth.  They  serve  to  crush  vegetable  fibres  and  to  chew  the 
cells  which  contain  the  nutritive  element;  while  the  other 
class,  the  carnivorous,  have  but  pointed  teeth,  like  our  eye- 
teeth,  to  tear  their  food  asunder.  The  stomach  of  the 
herbivorous  is  also  different;  it  comprises  several  divisions 
which  have  various  functions.  For  blood  is  not  so  readily 
obtained  from  vegetable  as  from  animal  food,  which  itself 
contains  ready-made  blood.  Herbivorous  animals  are  for 
the  greater  part  ruminators,  that  is,  their  food  passes  from 
the  first  division  of  the  stomach  back  into  the  mouth,  where 
it  is  masticated  a  second  time;  this  is  called  "ruminating." 
With  the  carnivorous  this  is  not  the  case.  Finally,  the  in- 
testines of  the  herbivorous  are  long,  because  there  the 
final  change  of  the  food  into  blood  takes  place ;  a  process  re- 
quiring more  time  with  vegetable  food  than  with  animal. 
For  the  same  reason  the  intestines  of  the  carnivorous  are 
short,  the  blood  to  be  formed  being  already  present  there. 

Considering  the  fact  that  man  has  sharp  teeth  in  front, 
at  both  sides  pointed  teeth,  and  in  the  rear  of  them  molars; 
that  his  stomach  is  adapted  to  the  digestion  of  both  vege- 
table and  animal  food,  and  that  his  intestine  is  so  consti- 
tuted as  to  be  able  to  digest  and  change  into  blood  both 
kinds,  we  can  no  longer  entertain  any  doubt  that  nature 
herself  bids  him  to  change  his  food  constantly,  and  to  take 
in  such  as  is  of  the  most  varied  kind.  If,  in  addition  to 
that,  we  recollect  that  exclusive  animal  food  renders  an 
animal  wild,  quick,  and  sly,  while  vegetable  food  makes  it 


NECESSITY    FOR   VARIETY    IN    FOOD.  145 

tame,  enduring-,  and  slow  in  mind,  it  will  not  be  denied  that 
food  exercises  great  influence  upon  the  nature  of  a  being, 
and  it  will  now  be  readily  understood  that  it  would  be  a 
sin,  if  man  were  to  be  forced  to  take  uniform  nourish- 
ment. 

The  example  of  the  cat  is  very  instructive;  it  teaches  us 
that  change  of  food  has  transformed  her  into  another  be- 
ing, mentally  as  well  as  bodily.  The  wild-cat  has  short 
intestines  and  is  an  animal  of  prey;  the  tame  cat  has  long 
intestines,  and  betrays  her  old  character  only  now  and 
then  by  cunning  and  slyness.  We  also  learn  from  this, 
that  variety  of  food  produces  variety  of  bodily  and  mental 
qualities;  and  lastly,  it  may  be  inferred  that  nature,  having 
fitted  man  for  this  variety  and  given  him  such  diver- 
sity of  mental  capacities,  wishes  also  that  his  food  be  well 
selected  and  of  the  greatest  variety. 

These  short  remarks  enable  us  to  pass  to  the  principal 
dishes  themselves;  first  to  those  constituting  the  principal 
meal  of  the  day,  the  dinner,  for  which  very  justly  the 
greatest  variety  of  food  is  chosen. 


CHAPTEK   XIII. 

BROTH. 

SOUP,  meat,  and  vegetables  are  the  principal  dishes  of  a 
plain  household  dinner. 

When  examining  this  more  closely,  we  find  the  selection 
so  judicious  that  we  may  well  admire  the  tact  of  woman, 
who  discovered  it  long  before  science  did. 

The  good  tact  of  woman  does  even  more  yet;  it  selects 
the  dishes  in  such  a  manner  that  they  mutually  compen- 
sate for  their  wants,  that  is,  that  each  offers  to  the  body 
what  is  wanting  in  the  others. 

The  principal  dishes  composing  a  meal  are  divided  into 
fat-producing  and  flesh-producing  ones.  All  farinaceous 
diet  provides  the  body  with  fat;  all  albumen  substances, 
with  flesh.  To  support  the  body,  however/ it  is  also  neces. 
sary  to  give  it  salt,  from  which  bones,  hair,  nails  and  teeth 
may  be  formed. 

Our  domestic  wives,  indeed,  look  to  all  that.  Long  be- 
fore scientific  men  had  investigated  the  necessity  for  nutri- 
ment of  the  kind,  all-providing  woman  had  arranged  culi- 
nary matters  so  as  to  be  able  to  satisfy  all  the  demands  of 
nature.  But  not  only  the  proper  selection  of  articles  of 
food, — the  way  and  manner  also  in  which  they  are  cooked 
and  served,  are  of  prime  importance  to  a  proper  nutrition; 
and  we  maintain  that  household  fare  may  justly  be  re- 
garded as  a  guide  for  scientific  investigations. 

A  judicious  housewife  will  first  of  all  place  meat  on  the 
fire,  to  have  good  soup  and  well-cooked  meat.  She  will 

prefer  beef  to  any  other  kind,  because  it  contains  but  little 

(146; 


BROTH.  141 

fat  and  much  albumen  and  animal  fibre;  for  this  reason  it 
makes  better  broth,  and  still  preserves  strength  enough  to 
be  a  healthy,  strength-giving  dish. 

Besides,  meat,  by  cooking,  becomes  more  nutritive,  inas- 
much as  its  digestibility  is  greatly  facilitated.  One  of  the 
most  important  tasks  of  the  cook  consists  in  promoting 
one's  digestion;  in  other  words,  in  saving  the  stomach  la- 
bor, FJesh  in  its  raw  state  keeps  its  nutritive  elements 
shut  up  in  cells  which  are  gluey.  By  boiling  it,  the  gela- 
tine becomes  soft  and  mixes  with  the  water;  hence  it  comes 
that  broth  is  glutinous,  and,  if  allowed  to  cool,  becomes 
thick  and  like  jelly.  This  substance  is  in  part  very  nour- 
ishing; it  is  often  obtained  from  bones  and  cartilages,  and 
then  sold  under  the  name  of  "  bouillon-tables,"  which,  when 
boiled  in  water,  make  a  tolerably  good  soup.  Thus  we  see 
that  the  first  object  of  all  cooking  is  the  dissolving  of  the 
cellular  tissues.  Not  before  this  is  done  do  we  obtain  the 
real  nutritive  element  of  the  flesh,  which  then  is  taken  up 
by  the  stomach  all  the  easier,  inasmuch  as  it  has  thus  been 
well  prepared  to  be  easily  changed  into  blood. 

But  before  the  meat  reaches  the  boiling-point,  albumen 
is  separated  from  its  surface  and  mixes  with  the  water;  it 
is  this  which  gives  broth  its  real  strength  and  nutritive 
power.  Afterwards,  when  the  water  boils,  this  albumen 
condenses;  the  broth  becomes  white,  as  if  containing  the 
white  of  eggs;  from  the  inside  of  the  meat  flows  continu- 
ally more  and  more  albumen  into  the  broth,  and  makes  it 
stronger  and  stronger.  During  this  time,  moreover,  the 
fat  parts  of  the  meat  melt,  and  its  salts  are  also  dissolved 
in  the  broth;  hence  a  great  deal  of  the  most  nutritive  parts 
of  the  meat  goes  over  into  the  broth;  and  although  much 
of  the  strength  of  the  meat  has  been  withdrawn,  still  there 
is  much  of  it  left  yet,  and  the  meat  has  now  become  easier 
to  masticate  and  easier  to  be  digested.  We  need  not  add 
that  a  sufficient  quantity  of  salt  is  thrown  into  the  soup, 


148  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

which  quickly  dissolves  in  the  water;  but  in  the  same  de- 
gree that  the  meat  excretes  a  part  of  its  ingredients  and 
gives  them  to  the  water,  in  the  same  measure  does  the 
meat  absorb  salt.  By  this  it  becomes  not  only  more  taste- 
ful and  digestible,  but  also  more  nutritive.  It  was  not  un- 
til recently  that  the  importance  of  salt  as  a  nutritive  was 
recognized;  this  cannot  be  otherwise,  for  the  tissues  of  the 
human  body,  as  well  as  its  blood  and  cartilages,  need  salt 
for  their  formation  and  support.  Who  does  not  know  that 
every  farmer  gives  his  cattle  salt  from  time  to  time,  so  as 
to  improve  their  strength  and  general  health  ? 

Our  readers  will  readily  understand  now,  that  the  weaker 
the  broth  the  stronger  must  be  the  meat,  and  vice  versa. 
It  often  occurs  that  we  care  less  to  have  good  broth  than 
good  beef.  In  such  cases  we  must  not  put  the  meat  into 
cold  water,  but  into  boiling  water.  So  soon  as  the  meat 
is  thrown  into  boiling  water,  the  albumen  on  the  out- 
side coagulates,  surrounding  the  whole  piece  as  it  were 
with  a  hard  crust,  which  does  not  permit  the  nutritive 
parts  of  the  inside  to  escape.  The  same  effect  is  pro- 
duced by  the  roasting  of  the  meat  in  an  oven,  although 
here  it  is  not  covered  by  water.  It  is  more  judicious, 
however,  and  more  important  for  the  household,  to  make 
good  broth,  and  to  let  dinner  commence  with  it. 

For  he  who  has  been  at  work  all  the  forenoon,  needs  such 
food  at  first  as  will  not  cause  his  stomach  too  much  labor; 
and  soup  is  that  food.  Let  every  good  housewife  bear  this 
in  mind.  i 


CHAPTEE    XIV. 

WHAT  IS  BEST  TO   BE   PUT  INTO  SOUP? 

THE  answer  to  this  question  will  be  "  Something  farina- 
ceous," and,  indeed,  no  better  answer  could  be  given. 

Broth  contains  gluten  and  albumen,  both  of  which  are 
changed  in  the  body  into  flesh.  Not  only  the  animal  part  of 
our  body,  but  chiefly  the  active,  working  part  of  it  requires 
nutriment  that  can  be  transformed  partly  into  fat.  Breath 
and  perspiration,  so  unavoidable  in  labor,  are  supported  by 
means  of  fat  in  our  body.  This  explains  why  fat  people 
perspire  more  than  others;  why  fat  people  get  out  of  breath 
sooner  than  lean  persons;  why  the  other  sex,  who  are  more 
apt  to  become  fat  than  men,  perspire  more;  and  why  chil- 
dren, because  they  run  about  much,  and  hence  need  more 
breath  and  perspiration,  usually  prefer  bread  to  meat. 

As  has  been  said,  broth,  which  contains  only  such  ingre- 
dients as  are  intended  to  produce  muscle-fibres,  may  well 
be  mixed  with  something  farinaceous,  which  should  be 
thrown  in  and  boiled  with  the  soup,  in  order  to  promote 
the  formation  of  fat  in  the  body.  It  matters  little  what 
may  be  chosen  for  the  purpose — flour,  groats,  barley,  rice, 
or  potato,  or  any  other  article;  provided  always  it  contains 
starch;  for  this  becomes  saccharine  even  when  boiling;  it 
changes  in  the  body  into  acid  of  milk,  and  lastly  into  fat. 
Perhaps  it  is  advisable  to  use  that  which  contains  most 
starch.  Rice,  for  example,  has  much  of  it;  probably  this 
accounts  for  the  fact  that  lively  children  are  very  fond  of 
it.  A  hundred  pounds  of  rice  include  eighty -five  of  starch; 
while  a  hundred  pounds  of  wheat  contain  but  about  seventy- 

(149) 


150  OUR   ARTICLES    OF   POOD. 

four  pounds.  A  judicious  housekeeper  will  know  very  well 
that  a  less  quantity  is  taken  of  rice  than  of  flour.  The 
various  kinds  of  farina  and  barley  possess  but  about  one- 
half  the  starch  of  rice;  and  potatoes  are  so  poor  in  that, 
that  five  pounds  of  potatoes  yield  no  more  starch  than  one 
pound  of  rice.  All  this  is  a  matter  of  great  importance  to 
our  housewives. 

The  usefulness  of  soup-material  lies,  however,  not  always 
in  its  great  nutritive  capacity,  but  very  often  in  the  facil- 
ity with  which  it  may  be  cooked.  Thus  we  cannot  boil 
rice  in  the  broth  itself;  it  must,  to  loosen  its  cells  properly, 
be  boiled  first  in  water;  this  takes  a  little  over  half  an 
hour,  and  requires  of  course  a  place  on  the  fire,  and  hence 
more  fuel.  The  cell  of  the  farina  or  pearl-barley,  on  the 
other  hand,  was  crushed  already  by  the  grinding;  there- 
fore it  needs  but  little  attention,  and  may  be  boiled  in  the 
broth  itself  without  any  loss  of  time.  When  making  scien- 
tific observations  on  food,  such  circumstances  must  not  be 
overlooked;  for  time  and  fuel  cost  money,  and  may,  in  the 
eyes  of  practical  housewives,  raise  the  price  of  the  article 
too  much;  while  to  a  scientific  man  the  same  article  may 
appear  very  cheap. 

There  are  other  viands  which,  though  not  very  nutritive, 
are  yet  very  popular  and  in  common  use.  As  an  example 
of  this  class,  we  may  give  the  potato. 

That  the  latter  is  poor  in  starch,  was  stated  above.  Its 
extensive  use  is  surprising,  when  we  consider,  that,  accord- 
ing to  calculation,  the  little  nutriment  obtained  from  the 
potato  is  paid  more  highly  for  than  that  of  flour.  And  yet 
there  is  good  reason  for  the  extensive  use  of  the  article. 
Its  preparation,  in  the  first  place,  is  an  easy  one,  especially 
when  the  potato  is  boiled  whole,  without  being  peeled. 
This  is  a  great  convenience  for  the  housewife,  who,  besides 
the  time  devoted  to  the  house,  needs  time  for  work  from 
the  proceeds  of  which  she  may  support  herself.  She  values, 


WHAT   IS    BEST   TO    BE   PUT   INTO    SOUK  151 

therefore,  any  dish  which  can  be  prepared  with  little  ex- 
pense of  time  and  money;  more  than  any  other  article  may 
the  potato  be  said  to  possess  this  quality.  From  it  a  meal 
can  be  prepared  in  half  an  hour,  and  the  cook  need  not 
watch  it  constantly;  potatoes  do  not  boil  over.  Besides 
all  this,  there  is  another  advantage,  and  it  is  this  which 
makes  it  a  favorite  even  with  the  rich;  already,  when  boil- 
ing, its  starch  is  transformed  into  sugar,  giving  the  potato 
a  more  pleasant  flavor  than  any  other  cheap  dish  can  be 
said  to  have.  How  easily  the  potato  starch  is  converted 
into  sugar  may  be  noticed  best  in  half-frozen  potatoes, 
because  there  the  cells  containing  the  starch  burst  during 
the  process  of  freezing. 


CHAPTEE   XV. 

LEGUMINOUS  VEGETABLES. 

THE  greens  which  we  put  in  soup  cannot  be  considered 
nutriment,  but  rather  a  kind  of  spice,  and  perhaps  also  as 
a  means  of  giving  us  the  benefit  of  borne  medicinal  quali- 
ties which  they  in  part  contain.  We  will  dwell  no  longer 
on  this  subject,  but  proceed  to  the  most  nutritive  articles 
of  food  we  use,  viz.,  the  leguminous  vegetables. 

Pease,  beans,  and  lentils  are  so  extremely  rich  in  fat  and 
muscle-forming  elements,  that  in  this  regard  they  excel 
bread  and  are  almost  on  a  level  with  meat.  No  wonder, 
therefore,  that  they  are  very  favorite  articles  if  well  cooked, 
when  we  consider  the  fact  that  they  are  so  very  cheap. 
Where  people  are  too  poor  to  buy  meat  every  day,  legumes 
must  not  be  found  wanting.  They  play  a  great  part  in 
barracks  and  prisons;  and  in  order  to  keep  pace  with  the 
immense  progress  gastronomical  science  has  made,  one  of 
the  above-named  articles  ought  to  be  used  in  those  estab- 
lishments on  all  days  on  which  there  is  no  meat. 

The  element  common  to  all  three  is  called  legumine.  It 
is  richer  in  starch  than  brea  d  and  contains  nearly  three 
times  more  of  it  than  the  potato.  Partly  legumes  contain 
also  ready-made  sugar;  this  maybe  tasted  in  green  pease. 
Besides  this,  their  flesh-forming  parts  are  in  greater  quan- 
tity than  those  of  other  plants,  while  their  quantity  of 
water  is  less,  and  it  is  therefore  not  advisable  to  take  them 
dry.  New  pease  and  beans  have,  moreover,  the  advantage 
of  being  eatable  together  with  their  hulls  and  pods,  as 
these,  when  yet  green,  contain  likewise  sugar  and  starch. 

(152) 


LEGUMINOUS  VEGETABLES.  153 

But  we  must  recommend,  above  all,  not  to  eat  the  hulls 
of  dried  legumes.  This  may  be  avoided  if,  when  boiled, 
the  cook  crushes  them  and  strains  them  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  by  which  process  the  hulls  are  left.  If  this  is  not 
done,  we  run  the  danger  of  disturbing  the  functions  of  the 
body,  inasmuch  as  these  dry  hulls  are  dissolved  neither  by 
the  saliva  of  the  mouth  nor  the  gastric  juice  of  the 
stomach. 

Most  every  one  that  once  in  his  life  had  culinary  labor 
to  perform,  is  acquainted  with  th  fact  that  the  cooking  of 
legumes  is  often  accompanied  by  a  peculiar  circumstance. 
Pease  sometimes  may  boil  by  the  hour  without  getting  soft; 
it  happens  even  that  young  pease,  soft  by  nature,  become 
harder  and  harder  by  boiling;  while,  at  other  times,  the 
same  pease  have  become  soft  and  burst  open  after  but  half 
an  hour's  cooking.  The  reason  of  this  lies  not  in  the  pease, 
but  in  the  water  they  are  boiled  in.  Our  housewives  un- 
doubtedly know,  from  the  experience  of  their  wash-days, 
that  there  is  hard  water  and  soft.  Soap,  when  put  in  hard 
water,  breaks  into  small  pieces,  while  it  dissolves  in  soft 
water  completely  and  forms  a  slimy  liquid.  Science  has 
solved  this  mystery:  spring-water  contains  lime,  which 
combines  chemically  with  the  fat  in  soap  and  forms  with 
it  an  insoluble  element;  while  rain-water  contains  little  or 
no  lime,  and  therefore  dissolves  soap.  The  same  is  the 
case  in  regard  to  the  legumine.  The  lime  in  spring-water, 
which  settles  on  the  bottom  of  vessels  as  sediment,  com- 
bines with  some  constituent  parts  of  the  pea  and  forms  a 
very  hard,  indigestible  body;  rain-water,  however,  dis- 
solves legumine  completely. 

It  must  now  appear  evident  to  all,  that  much  fuel  and 
nutritive  element  is  gained  by  cooking  pease,  beans,  and 
lentils  in  soft  water.  To  comfort  those  who,  on  the  plea  of 
uncleanliness,  are  opposed  to  rain  or  cistern  water,  we  de- 
sire to  state  that  rain-water  when  poured  through  linen  or 


154  OUR   ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

cotton  cloth  is  not  in  the  least  impure;  especially  if  it  be 
allowed  to  stand  quietly  for  a  few  hours  and  then  have  the 
scum  removed  from  its  surface. 

Pease,  beans,  and  lentils  produce  in  the  healthy  body 
blood,  flesh,  milk,  and  fat.  By  their  being  strained  through 
a  coarse  sieve  they  lose  such  disagreeable  qualities  as,  for 
example,  the  bloating  they  produce  in  the  body,  which 
makes  them  very  unpopular  with  many. 

Another  great  advantage  in  leguminous  vegetables  lies 
in  this,  that  they  contain  phosphorus,  a  principle  needed  for 
the  formation  and  preservation  of  the  bones  and  brain; 
therefore  we  may  justly  maintain  that  legumine  is  good 
for  the  body  and  mind  both. 


CHAPTEE   XVI. 

MEAT  AND  VEGETABLES. 

IT  is  an  old  German  habit  to  consider  meat  and  vegeta- 
bles as  belonging  together. 

In  the  common  kinds  of  vegetables  there  is  very  little 
nutriment.  Nearly  nine-tenths  of  the  weight  of  cabbages 
and  other  varieties  consist  of  water.  There  is  therefore 
but  little  left  for  nutriment  proper,  as,  for  example,  vegeta- 
ble albumen,  gluten,  vegetable  fat,  starch,  and  sugar.  It 
is  only  such  vegetables  as  turnips,  etc.,  that  contain  much 
sugar,  for  which  reason  they  are  well  adapted  for  children 
and  convalescents.  In  fine,  if  nutriment  alone  were  con- 
sidered, the  enjoyment  of  our  common  vegetables  would  be 
nothing  but  a  luxury. 

In  truth,  however,  they  possess  elements  which  make 
them  very  beneficial  to  man,  if  he  takes  them  together  with 
meat.  They  contain  organic  acids — like  fruit,  which  for 
this  reason  is  so  universally  liked — and  have  the  quality 
of  preserving  in  a  state  of  dissolution  the  soluble  albumen 
of  the  meat.  Thus  they  save  much  labor  to  the  digestive 
organs,  and  accelerate  the  transition  of  meat  into  chyle. 
Hence  the  well-known  fact,  that  after  dinner,  though  we 
can  eat  nothing  more,  yet  we  like  to  taste  some  good  raw 
'fruit,  or  cooked  fruit  of  any  kind.  Vegetables  are  taken 
for  a  similar  purpose,  and  are  therefore  very  healthy  when 
eaten  with  meat. 

But  why  is  it  that  our  housewives  often  serve  vegetables 
before  they  do  meat,  and  fruit  after  the  meat  ? 

Very  likely  they  themselves  do  not  know  why,  as  is  the 

(155) 


156  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

case  so  often;  yet  they  act  here,  as  in  many  other  things, 
with  wise  instinct.  Fruit  contains  organic  acid,  which,  in 
a  ready-made  condition,  is  very  beneficial  to  us;  it  needs 
only  to  be  taken  up  by  the  stomach.  We  do  well,  therefore, 
if  we  take  fruit  after  the  meat,  and  allow  digestion  to  go 
on  with  it.  From  vegetables,  however,  this  acid  is  onty 
produced  in  th/e  stomach,  and  during  the  process  of  diges- 
tion.  If  taken  before  meat,  the  acid  may  promote  the  di- 
gestion of  the  meat;  while  if  it  is  taken  after  the  meat, 
the  acid  comes  much  too  late  to  be  of  any  benefit.  This 
explains  the  fact,  that  vegetables  in  which  this  acid  has 
been  produced  by  fermentation — as  is  the  case,  for  example, 
with  sour-crout — are  usually  taken  together  with  meat. 

Another  great  advantage  of  vegetables  is,  that  they  are 
rich  in  mineral  salts  necessary  for  the  health  of  the  body. 
There  are  ingredients  in  the  various  kinds  of  vegetables, 
of  which  it  may  scarcely  be  believed  that  they  can  be 
eaten,  for  they  belong  to  the  metals  and  metal  combina- 
tions; as,  for  example,  chlorine,  iron,  potassium,  and  na- 
tron; these  play  an  important  part  in  the  body.  It  is, 
therefore,  not  surprising  to  us  that  a  judicious  physician 
will  more  often  prescribe  a  good  vegetable  than  medicine; 
and  one  ought  to  be  thankful  to  him  if  he  sends  people 
more  to  the  market  than  to  the  drug-store.  There  are,  in- 
deed, many  diseases  successfully  cured  by  such  organical 
remedies,  which  only  nature  knows  how  to  prepare.  To 
mention  but  one  remedy,  spinage,  so  highly  beneficial  to 
children  and  young  girls  of  very  pale  appearance.  Their 
green-sickness  takes  origin  from  a  want  of  iron  in  the 
blood.  Though  every  physician  is  able  to  prescribe  medi- 
cine which  contains  iron,  yet  the  effect  of  such  artificial 
inorganic  remedies  is  often  very  doubtful;  while  spinage 
itself  contains  iron,  and  therefore  offers  a  better  organic 
remedy,  and  food. 

Meat  and  vegetables  are  sufficient  for  the  body.     There 


MEAT   AND    VEGETABLES.  15 1 

is  not  need  of  much  meat.  Prom  six  to  eight  ounces  a  day 
constitutes  the  quantity  sufficient  for  a  man.  Meat  and 
vegetables  compensate  each  other's  wants;  the  former  is 
poor  in  water,  the  latter  rich;  vegetables  are  wanting  in 
albumen,  which  is  found  abundantly  in  meat.  This  happy 
circumstance  is  favorable  to  the  formation  of  that  mixture 
of  elements  essential  to  the  preservation  of  the  body. 

Household  fare,  according  to  what  we  have  seen,  is  pre- 
cisely what  it  ought  to  be,  and  does  not,  as  some  people 
are  inclined  to  think,  result  solely  from  the  whims  of  the 
housewives.  Thus  is  proved  again  what  we  have  said 
above,  viz.,  that  the  natural  instinct  and  tact  of  woman 
have,  by  long  years  of  practice,  been  guided  by  a  better 
and  more  practical  course  than  science  itself. 

There  are  some  other  important  articles  of  food,  but  we 
must  keep  them  for  "  Supper ;"  and  our  readers  will  no  doubt 
be  very  glad  if  we  conclude  this  chapter,  and  treat  in  the 
next  one  the  question, 

"  Is  it  good  to  take  a  little  nap  after  dinner  ?" 


CHAPTEE  XVII. 

THE   NAP   AFTER,  DINNER. 

AN  old  adage  says,  "  After  dinner  thou  shalt  either  rest 
or  walk  a  thousand  steps."  Habit,  however,  has  modified 
this  very  much  ;  for  people  nowadays  neither  rest  nor 
walk;  but,  if  they  can,  they  lie  down  and  slumber.  Now, 
it  is  true  that  sleep  does  not  belong  to  the  articles  of  food. 
We  might  despatch  the  question  of  the  nap  after  dinner 
here  at  once;  yet,  if  it  has  any  influence  upon  the  diges- 
tion of  food,  it  is  of  enough  importance  to  merit  a  few 
words. 

It  was  mentioned  before,  that  eating  and  digestion  are 
a  labor.  To  many  it  may  be  the  most  pleasant  labor,  to 
others  even  the  only  labor  of  their  lives;  but  be  this  as  it 
may,  it  is  certainly  a  labor  for  all  and  every  one;  and  it  is 
important  that  during  the  process  quiet  should  be  enjoyed. 
He  who  thinks  he  gains  by  not  taking  enough  time  for 
eating,  or  he  who  takes  his  dinner  while  working  or  moving 
about,  loses  actually  more  than  he  even  thinks  of  winning. 
The  activity  without  disturbs  seriously  the  activity  within. 
The  perspiration  on  the  surface  of  the  body  withdraws 
moisture  from  the  inside  of  the  body  to  such  an  extent  as 
to  diminish  even  the  saliva  in  the  mouth,  so  necessary  to 
digestion.  Have  not  all  of  you  had  the  experience,  that 
when  fatigued  you  feel  dryness  in  the  mouth;  that  you  feel 
as  if  a  piece  of  dry  bread  would  not  pass  down,  but  remain 
in  your  throat  ?  And  as  with  the  saliva,  it  is  with  the 
other  digestive  fluids;  if  there  is  any  want  of  them,  the 
food  we  have  taken  lies  in  the  stomach  like  stone. 

(158) 


THE    NAP    AFTER   DINNER.  159 

It  is  therefore  desirable  to  take  a  short  rest  before  din- 
ner, not  to  perform  any  kind  of  labor  whatever  during  the 
same,  and,  above  all,  not  to  exercise  the  body  immediately 
after  dinner.  Eating  is  an  inward  work,  and  should  not 
be  accompanied  by  any  labor  without.  As  an  additional 
proof  of  what  we  said  above,  it  may  be  stated  that,  as 
probably  many  of  our  readers  know  already,  even  in  the 
hottest  summer,  perspiration  diminishes  after  dinner.  This 
will  convince  all,  that  when  the  digestive  apparatus  is  at 
work,  the  outer  organs  ought  to  be  at  rest.  Once  more, 
then:  before  and  after  dinner  we  need  rest,  and  it  is  this 
rest  which  renders  us  indisposed  to  labor  and  makes  us 
feel  sleepy. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  must  take  but  a  short  slumber. 
Those  who  have  accustomed  themselves  to  sleep  after 
dinner,  feel  that  half  an  hour's  slumber  is  all  that  is 
needed,  and  that  they  even  feel  weary  if  they  have  slept 
longer. 

The  reason  of  this  is,  the  process  of  digestion  is  properly 
carried  on  chemically  by  the  food,  being  dissolved  through 
the  gastric  juice.  This  digestion,  however,  is  greatly  pro- 
moted by  the  motions  of  the  stomach,  which  tosses  the 
food  about  from  one  side  to  the  other,  mixing  it  entirely, 
and  finally  making  a  large  ball  of  it,  whose  various  ingre- 
dients are,  as  it  were,  fused  together.  This  process  needs 
rest  on  our  part;  during  it  sleep  is  sweet  and  agreeable. 
But  for  the  further  digestion  of  food,  energy  is  needed, 
which  we  have  not  during  that  sleep;  therefore  its  want 
makes  our  prolonged  sleep  uneasy,  or  renders  our  diges- 
tion imperfect.  This  latter  may  be  felt  by  every  one  who 
goes  to  bed  with  a  full  stomach.  His  sleep  during  the  first 
hour  is  undisturbed  and  pleasant,  because  it  is  favorable 
to  the  first  stage  of  digestion.  But  after  that,  sleep  is 
very  uneasy;  weariness  and  complaints  about  bad  diges- 
tion follow,  and  the  imprudent  person  rises  next  morning 


160  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

with  headache,  coated  tongue,  and  indigestion  in  the 
stomach. 

From  what  has  preceded  we  may  conclude,  that  a  short 
nap  after  dinner  is  conducive  to  good  health;  while  if  taken 
too  long,  it  will  produce  the  contrary  effect.  Dizziness  in 
the  head  and  fetid  taste  in  the  mouth  are  sure  signs  of 
one's  having  overslept  one's  self,  and  he  who  has  been  so  im- 
prudent must  animate  his  system — not  by  liquor,  but  with 
a  glass  of  fresh  water;  or  he  must,  if  he  feels  very  heavy, 
wash  with  very  cold  water.  For  this  is  the  moment  when 
digestion  needs  activity  more  than  anything  else;  the  above 
symptoms  are  the  indications,  and  man  should  consider 
them  as  the  summons  of  nature,  who  calls  to  him,  "  Thou 
hast  eaten  and  reposed;  go,  then,  to  thy  labor;  this  is  the 
time  ! " 

Let  every  one  obey  her  call,  and  there  will  be  less  sick- 
ness. 


CHAPTEE     XVIII. 

WATER   AND   BEER. 

DURING  the  forenoon  a  general  desire  for  food  is  felt, 
while  in  the  afternoon  thirst  is  more  common,  in  which 
case  the  best  and  most  natural  beverage  should  always  be 
water. 

Properly  speaking,  water  is  no  article  of  food,  if  by  that 
term  we  understand  only  animal  and  vegetable  matter. 
Water  is  no  organic,  but  a  mere  chemical  agent.  But  if 
man  were  to  consume  no  water  he  would  perish.  There- 
fore water  is  essentially  necessary  to  man,  although  it  does 
not  satisfy  his  appetite;  for  it  serves  to  liquify  our  food  in 
the  body,  and  our  blood  must  contain  a  greater  quantity 
of  water  than  is  furnished  us  by  food,  although  this  itself 
contains  much  water. 

Without  water  there  can  be  neither  digestion  nor  nutri- 
tion, nor  formation  of  blood,  nor  secretion.  Furthermore, 
it  is  remarkable  that  the  most  active  of  the  human  organs, 
the  brain  and  muscles,  contain  the  most  water;  we  are 
therefore  obliged,  although  we  are  aware  of  its  containing 
no  nutritious  elements,  to  call  it  a  nutritive;  all  the  more, 
since  it  is  well  known  that  we  can  be  longer  without  food 
than  without  water. 

This  element  plays  a  great  part  in  the  body;  it  is  used 
in  three  ways.  In  the  first  place,  the  ingredients  of  water, 
hydrogen  and  oxygen,  combine  with  the  food,  and  effect  its 
digestion.  The  starch  which  we  eat  in  farinaceous  and 
vegetable  food  cannot  without  water  be  converted  into 
sugar.  And  the  latter  being  transformed  into  fat,  we 

(161) 


162  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

should  have  no  fat  if  we  took  no  water,  though  it  may 
seem  strange  that  water  should  make  us  fat. 

And  there  is  the  second  task,  viz.,  the  preservation  of 
all  the  fluids  necessary  to  our  body.  This,  also,  is  per- 
formed by  water;  and  as  they  are  excreted  their  loss  is 
compensated  for  by  water.  We  lose  it  constantly  by 
breathing,  perspiring,  and  urinating;  therefore  we  must 
continually  take  it  anew.  Those  who  perspire  and  breathe 
much,  as,  for  example,  workmen  or  foot-travellers,  must 
take  it  in  greater  quantities. 

The  third  reason  of  its  importance  lies  in  this,  that  it 
gives  us  much  of  the  salts  and  other  ingredients  that  are 
dissolved  in  it,  and  which  the  human  body  needs  for  its 
support.  Those  are  wrong,  therefore,  who  prefer  cistern 
or  distilled  water  to  spring-water;  the  former  being,  as  it 
were  artificially,  free  from  all  metallic  and  mineral  parts 
which  are  so  beneficial  to  our  health;  while  spring-water 
contains  them  in  abundance,  and  ought,  therefore,  to  be 
taken  in  preference  even  to  .the  purest  rain-water. 

But  one  of  the  most  excellent  qualities  of  water  is,  that 
one  can  scarcely  ever  drink  too  much  of  it.  If  but  for  a 
moment  in  the  stomach,  it  is  absorbed  there  and  goes  im- 
mediately into  the  blood.  From  this  arises  its  rapid  cool- 
ing quality  ;  which,  however,  may  become  very  dangerous 
when  one  is  heated.  There  is  but  one  case  in  which  water 
is  not  readily  absorbed  by  the  stomach  ;  when  it  contains 
salts  that  ma*ke  it  heavier  than  blood,  for  example,  Glau- 
ber's salt  and  bitter-salt  It  passes  then  into  the  intestinal 
canal,  and  produces  here — partly  as  liquid,  partly  by  its 
salts  exciting  the  nerves  of  the  intestines — that  medicinal 
effect  for  which  it  is  famous.  Many  water-cures,  especially 
those  applied  in  cases  of  abdominal  diseases,  are  of  simi- 
lar effects. 

Common  water,  however,  which  is  immediately  trans- 
mitted to  the  blood,  effects  by  this  accelerated  secretion  of 


WATER    AND    BEER.  163 

perspiration,  respiration  and  urine  ;  this  constitutes  the 
beneficial  effects  of  water-cures,  where  a  glass  of  water 
often  produces  better  results  than  a  bottle  of  medicine. 

If  we  can  control  our  thirst  until  several  hours  after 
dinner  have  passed,  a  glass  of  beer  will  be  a  welcome  bev- 
erage to  us.  Beer  contains  nutriment ;  it  includes  more 
or  less  albumen,  sugar,  gluten,  hops,  and  alcohol.  Owing 
to  the  variety  in  its  fermentation  and  manufacture,  we  have 
many  kinds  of  beer,  such  as,  for  example,  porter,  ale,  and, 
above  all  others,  the  lager-beer. 

Good  beer — that  is,  beer  well  brewed  and  containing  all 
the  ingredients  this  beverage  generally  does  contain — is, 
very  justly,  often  given  to  nurses  and  mothers,  because  it 
assimilates  easily  and  very  rapidly.  It  is  a  kind  of  soup  ; 
one  may  take  it  when  a  person  is  too  heated  or  fatigued 
to  eat  a  regular  meal.  There  is  a  kind  of  beer  that  con- 
tains more  hops,  and  is  therefore  very  bitter  ;  it  is  very 
good  for  the  stomach.  The  Bavarian  beer,  when  genuine, 
contains  more  alcohol  than  the  other,  which  gives  it  the 
advantages  of  liquor  without  its  disadvantages.  It  there- 
fore does  not  satisfy  one's  appetite,  but,  on  the  contrary, 
tends  to  increase  it ;  thus  it  is  more  adapted  to  be  taken 
at  breakfast  and  supper.  Another  kind  of  beer,  called 
white-beer,  contains  more  sugar  and  oxygen  ;  it  may,  for 
this  reason,  supply  the  place  of  sugar,  and  Seltzer-water 
and  is  recommended  to  all  those  who  need  Seidlitz  pow- 
ders. 

In  another  part  of  this  work  we  shall  perhaps  speak 
more  about  the  usefulness  of  beer.  To-day  we  must  pray 
our  readers  to  be  satisfied  with  what  we  have  said  about 
it ;  we  shall  now  speak  about  supper. 


CHAPTEE   XIX. 

SUPPER. 

No  time  of  the  day  is  more  pleasant  than  the  evening- 
hours  after  the  day's  work  is  over  ;  there  is  a  solemn  calm 
and  quiet  in  them  which  charms  both  soul  and  body. 

This  time  of  ease  and  rest  must  not  be  disturbed  on  our 
part  by  overburdening  the  stomach.  We  eat  only  for  the 
purpose  of  compensating  for  the  loss  experienced  through 
our  work  ;  we  should  not  eat  more  than  is  necessary  to 
supply  the  strength  lost ;  in  other  words,  to  give  us  suffi- 
cient strength  to  continue  our  labor.  And  as  the  day's 
work  is  finished,  there  being  not  much  work  before  us,  we 
need  not  take  much  food. 

When  glancing  at  a  sleeping  person  and  noticing  his 
long  breathing  and  increased  perspiration,  one  may  be  led 
to  the  belief  that  he  loses  much  oxygen  and  water  during 
his  sleep  ;  that  therefore  we  must  provide  ourselves  abun- 
dantly with  food  before  retiring  to  bed.  This  is,  however, 
a  mistake.  The  breath  of  a  sleeping  person  is  long  and 
deep,  but  very  slow ;  and  his  perspiring  does  not  cause 
any  great  loss  of  water,  but  comes  rather  from  this,  that 
one's  body  during  the  night  is  more  protected  by  covers 
and  closed  windows,  etc.,  from  draft  which  dries  our  evap- 
oration, and  therefore  prevents  perspiration  in  day-time. 
During  sleep  we  need  even  less  of  bodily  strength  than 
through  the  day;  for  this  reason  we  feel  no  hunger  in  the 
night,  and,  in  spite  of  the  long  fasting,  no  fatigue  in  the 
morning. 

From  this  we  conclude  that  supper  should  not  be  a  meal 

(164) 


SUPPER.  165 

for  the  night,  but  merely  for  the  last  hours  of  the  day.  It 
should  be  no  meal  prcenumerando,  but  postnuinerando  ! 

It  is  therefore  best  to  choose  but  light  dishes,  which,  if 
we  wish  to  rest  well,  must  be  easily  digested,  and  eaten  at 
least  two  or  three  hours  before  bed-time. 

For  healthy  people  a  warm  supper  is  unnecessary  ;  our 
dinner  is  taken  warm  for  the  purpose  only  of  keeping  the 
gluten  and  fat  of  the  food  liquid  ;  as  this  kind  of  food, 
however,  is  not  proper  for  supper,  we  need  not  take  it  at 
all  in  the  evening.  If  we  do,  it  is  but  an  additional  bur- 
den to  the  housewife,  who  surely  has  enough  trouble  and 
labor  in  the  kitchen  during  the  day.  He  who  is  not  satis- 
fied with  a  piece  of  bread  and  butter  and  a  glass  of  beer, 
may  eat  a  piece  of  cheese  besides  ;  but  it  must  be  no  other 
kind  than  sour  cheese — the  Germans  call  it  Schmirrkaese — 
common  cheese  being  too  heavy  for  night  because  of  its 
containing  fat.  This  sour  cheese,  whether  soft  or  hard- 
ened, is  easily  digested  ;  it  even  excites  the  stomach 
like  spice,  especially  if  you  eat  it  with  caraway  seeds,  and 
thus  promotes  the  secretion  of  gastric  juice.  The  other 
kind  of  cheese  is,  for  no  other  reason  than  that,  often 
eaten  after  dinner  ;  for,  though  taken  by  itself  scarcely 
digestible,  if  eaten  in  very  small  quantity,  it  increases  by 
its  action  upon  the  stomach,  the  quantity  of  gastric  juice 
there,  and,  therefore,  promotes  digestion  in  general. 

Should  we,  however,  for  one  reason  or  the  other,  insist 
upon  having  a  more  substantial  supper,  then  let  us  take 
soft-boiled  eggs.  The  nutritive  quality  of  eggs  is  equiv- 
alent to  that  of  meat.  They  unite  all  good  sides  of  the 
meat ;  nay,  we  may  say  here,  that  the  most  nourishing 
part  in  meat  is  nothing  but  egg-white,  or,  as  we  call  it, 
"  albumen." 

We  recommend  soft-boiled  eggs,  because  hard  ones  are 
difficult  to  digest.  They  are  best  prepared  by  boiling,  if 
the  water  is  allowed  to  boil  first  and  the  eggs  put  in  after- 


166  OUR    ARTICLES    OF    FOOD. 

wards.  The  reason  of  this  is,  that  the  boiling  water  hard- 
ens the  outer  part  of  the  egg  very  rapidly,  forming  a  thick 
crust,  which  prevents  the  heat  of  the  boiling  water  from 
penetrating  farther. 

It  is  a  custom  of  our  country  to  take  tea  in  the  evening. 
Tea  is  no  article  of  food,  but  it  possesses  the  qualities  of 
coffee  ;  it  warms  the  blood,  increases  the  activity  of  the 
heart,  and  produces  a  certain  freshness  of  the  mind,  which 
is  a  good  remedy  against  ennui  and  sleepiness  in  a  com- 
pany or  party. 

And  since  we  are  speaking  of  ennui  and  sleepiness,  we 
think  it  advisable  to  close  our  present  subject,  "  The  Arti- 
cles of  Food  for  the  People,"  and  we  part  from  our  readers 
with  the  full  conviction  that  they  will  enjoy  their  real 
"  articles  of  food  "much  better  than  they  have  relished 
these  scientific  conversations  about  them. 


RETURN  TO  the  circulation  desk  of  any 
University  of  California  Library 
or  to  the 

NORTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 
Bldg.  400,  Richmond  Field  Station 
University  of  California 
Richmond,  CA  94804-4698 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 
2-month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling 

(415)  642-6753 
1-year  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing  books 

to  NRLF 
Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made  4  days 

prior  to  due  date 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 


AUG1   1991 


SENT  ON  IL 


FEB  0 


U  C.  BERKELEY 


>O 


YB   17590 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CD211LOSM3 


