37417  NilesBlvd  SV/{  510-494-1411 

Fremont.  CA  94536  wvvw.nilesfilmnniseuni.org 


Scanned  from  the  collections  of 
Niles  Essanay  Silent  Film  Museum 


Coordinated  by  the 
Media  History  Digital  Library 
www.mediahlstoryproject.org 


Funded  by  a  donation  from 
Jeff  Joseph 


PRINCIPLES     OF     CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2012  with  funding  from 

Media  History  Digital  Library 


http://archive.org/details/principlesofcinemaOOwhee 


PRINCIPLES 
OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 


A  Handbook  of 
Motion  Picture  Technology 


by 

LESLIE    J    WHEELER    FRPS    ■    MBKS 

with  a  foreword  by 

I    D    WRATTEN    HON    FBKS    •     FRPS 


® 


FOUNTAIN      PRESS        ■        •        LONDON 


First  Published  1953. 

2nd  Edition  1958 

Copyright  1953  by  the  Fountain  Press. 


MADE    AND    PRINTED    IN    GREAT   BRITAIN   BY 

CHARLES    BIRCHALL    AND    SONS,    LTD., 

LIVERPOOL   AND    LONDON 


DEDICATED     TO     MY     WIFE 

without  whose  invaluable  help  this 
book  would  not  have  been  possible 


CONTENTS 


Chapter  Page 

FOREWORD  15 

INTRODUCTION 17 

1  GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  19 

The  Photographic  image  -  The  requirements  of  motion  pictures  - 
historical  survey -film  coating -film  perforating  -  standardisation 

-  the  early  cinematograph  camera  -  film  production  methods. 

2  THE  CINEMATOGRAPH  CAMERA 43 

General  considerations  -  early  mechanisms  -  claw  mechanisms - 
modern  equipment  -  the  Bell  &  Howell  shuttle  mechanism  -  variable 
aperture  shutters  -  shutter  "cut-off"  efficiency  -  the  M.G.M. 
"Follow-focus"  device  -  scene  identification  methods. 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT     71 

General  considerations  -  unit  processing  -  continuous  machines  - 
feed  rolls  and  splicing  tables  -  film  feed  elevators  -  processing  racks 
-air  squeegees  -  drying  cabinets  -  take-up  elevators  -  main  driving 
unit  -  alarm  signal  systems  -  solution  circulating  methods  -  solution 
replenishment  methods  -  general  machine  operation  -  machine 
threading  -  processing  irregularities  -  drying  temperature  -  fixing 
baths  -  hardening  -  methods  of  film  transport. 


4    PROCESSING    MOTION    PICTURE    FILM- 
QUALITY  CONTROL  AND  SENSITOMETRY      ....  105 

Processing  faults  -  aerial  fog -air  bells  -  blistering  -  broken  splices 
-cinch  marks  -  developer  staining  -  directional  effect  -  drying 
troubles  -  failure  to  harden  -  fixer  scum  -  fixer  stain  -  green  stains  - 
reticulation  -  scratches  -  sludge  -  static  marks  -  sulphide  fog  - 
functions  of  the  processing  solutions  -  silver  recovery  -  sensitometry 
-density  -  opacity  -  exposure  -  the  sensitometer  -  the  densitometer 
-  characteristic  curves  -  gamma  -  film  speed. 

7 


8  CONTENTS 

Chapter  Page 

5  PRINTING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM         141 

General  considerations  -  intermittent  contact  printers  -  intermittent 
optical  printers  -  travelling  mattes  -  rotary  contact  printers  - 
newsreel  cascade  printers  -  grading  printer  exposure  -  aids  to 
selecting  exposure  setting  -  light  changing  devices -the  Bell  & 
Howell  fully  automatic  printer. 

6  THE  MOTION  PICTURE  PROJECTOR       169 

General  -  threading  films  to  ensure  synchronism  -  the  intermittent 
mechanism  -  sprocket  and  aperture  design  -  shutter  types  and 
positions  -  screen  brightness  and  flicker  -  projector  arcs  -  projection 
lenses  and  picture  distortion  -  rear  projection  -  slide  projection  and 
stage  equipment. 

7  THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND  TO  FILMS   195 

The  nature  of  sound  -  early  disc  recording  -  modern  disc  recording 

-  photographic  sound  recording  -  light  valves  -  aeo  and  glowlamps  - 
mirror  galvanometers  -  push-pull  tracks  -  ground  noise  reduction 
-sound  recording  emulsions  -  variable  area  versus  variable  density. 

8  SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING 231 

General  considerations  -  sensitometry  of  variable  density  recording 

-  recorder  factors  -  shortcomings  of  sensitometry  -  cross  modulation 

-  intermodulation. 

9  SOUND  REPRODUCTION       256 

Reproduction  systems  -  scanning  slits -the  audible  spectrum - 
photo-electric  cells  -  film  drive  at  the  scanning  point  -  main  driving 
motors  -  speaker  and  horn  systems -the  sound  screen  -  theatre 
accoustics  and  echo -sound  fading  -  monitor  speakers  -  factors 
affecting  sound  quality  -  the  chief  operator  and  the  theatre  manager. 

10  THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS  282 

General  -  picture  reduction  printing  -  sound  reduction  printing - 
optical  reduction  printing  -  twin  16-mm  head  optical  reduction 
printing  -  beam  spiking  systems  -  pilot  pin  registration  -  printer 
adjustments  -  exposure  adjustments  and  negative  density  -  negative 
grading  -  multiple  copies. 

11  SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING     311 

Film  dimensions  -  optical  printers  -  constant  film  speed  -  reduction 
ratios  -  magnetic  drum  drives  -  sprocket  design  -  optical  systems  - 
anamorphote  lens  systems  -  printer  gates  -  printer  illuminants- 
optical  reduction  versus  re-recording  -  sound  lead  ahead  of  picture. 


CONTENTS  9 

Chapter  Page 

12  16-mm  CAMERAS  AND  ACCESSORIES      340 

General  -  basic  mechanisms  -  variable  taking  speeds  -  single  frame 
exposure  devices  -  reverse  winding  mechanisms  -  variable  aperture 
shutters  -  lens  turrets  -  "T  "  stop  method  of  lens  calibration  -  reflex 
viewfinders  -  matte  boxes  -  professional  cameras. 

13  16-mm  SOUND  FILM  PROJECTION 366 

Basic  silent  projector  mechanisms  -  intermittent  mechanisms  - 
maltese  cross  mechanisms  -  picture  steadiness  -  shutter  types  - 
illumination  -  screen    brightness  -  projection    aperture  -  projection 

lens  and  screen  sizes  -  sound  heads  -  types  of  tracks  -  scanning 
apertures  -  exciter  lamps -film  drive -sound  lead -light  beam 
conductors. 

14  35-mm  FILMS  AND  THEIR  USES     398 

Dupont  motion  picture  films  -  negative  stocks  -  positive  stocks - 
sound  recording  stocks  -  Eastman  Kodak  motion  picture  films  - 
Gevaert  motion  picture  films  -  Ilford  motion  picture  films. 

15  16-mm  FILMS  AND  THEIR  USES     407 

Acetate  film  base  -  reversal  stocks  -  negative  and  positive  emulsions 

-  Gevaert  stocks  -  Ilford  stocks  -  Kodak  stocks  -  positive  type 
emulsions. 

16  GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS  415 
Buzz  track  controls  -  volume  expansion  systems  -  ultra-violet 
recording  and  printing  -  constant  speed  sound  drives  -  fantasound 
-flickerless  projection  -  water-cooled  mercury  discharge  lamps - 
"black  light"  in  auditoria  -  stereoscopic  methods  -  polarised 
light  -  the  Telekinema  -  the  Dunning  process  -  the  travelling 
matte  -  coated  lenses  -  the  Acme-Dunn  optical  printer. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 442 

INDEX         465 


LIST   OF   ILLUSTRATIONS 


Fig. 

1  Raster's  "Mutoscope" 

2  Demeny's  "Phonoscope'* 

3  Early  intermittent  mechanism 

4  The  Prestwich  camera 

5  Lay-out  of  film  coating  apparatus 

6  System  of  film  perforating 

7  35-mm  film  dimensional  tolerances 

8  Sequence  of  film  production  operations 

9  Picture  and  sound  in  "married"  print  . . 

10  "Dog  Movement"  intermittent  mechanism 

11  Double  Maltese  Cross  by  R.  W.  Paul  . . 

12  Operation  of  oscillating  shutters 

13  Intermittent  film  motion  by  mutilated  rollers 

14  Intermittent  film  claw  by  W.  Darling    . . 

15  Early  Williamson  intermittent  mechanism 

16  Modified  Prestwich  intermittent  mechanism 

17  Analysis  of  claw  motion  by  Arthur  S.  Newman 

18  Conventional  basic  camera  lay-out 

19  Intermittent  mechanism  by  Mitchell  Camera  Corp. 

20  The  Bell  &  Howell  "Shuttle  gate"  intermittent 

21  Variable  aperture  shutter  mechanism    . . 

22  Shutter  "cut-off "  efficiency 

23  Camera- Viewfinder  parallax 

24  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  "follow-focus"  device 

25  Set  up  for  background  projection  shots 

26  Scene  identification  unit  by  Paramount  Corp. , 

27  Rack-and-pin  processing  unit 

28  Film  drying  drum  

29  Processing  apron  

30  Reel-and-tray  processing  unit 

31  Simple  film  rack 

32  Multiple  film  rack  

33  Continuous  processing  machine 

34  Splicing  unit  for  film  processing 

35  Plan  view  of  developing  racks 

36  Upper  rollers  and  drive  to  processing  rack 

37  Lower  rollers  of  processing  rack 

38  Processing  rack  assembly 

39  Processing  rack  loaded  with  film 

40  Compressed  air  squeegee 


22 
24 
25 
27 
31 
34 
34 
35 
39 
46 
46 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
56 
57 
60 
63 
65 
65 
67 
67 
69 
72 
72 
74 
76 
76 
76 
78 
81 
83 
84 
84 
84 
84 
86 


11 


12 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


Fig. 

41  Film  drying  cabinet         

42  Lower  rack  in  film  drying  cabinet 

43  Processing  machine  "supply  unit" 

44  Film  safety  locking  device  

45  Film  rack  raised  for  threading 

46  Film  rack  partially  threaded 

47  Film  rack  completely  threaded 

48  Principle  of  the  "tendency  drive" 

49  Directional  effect  -  a  processing  defect 

50  Relationship  between  Density,  Opacity  and  Transmission 

51  The  Kodak  type  2b  sensitometer 

52  A  2b  sensitometric  strip 

53  Comparison  fields  of  optical  densitometer 

54  The  Kodak  densitometer 

55  Characteristic  sensitometric  data 

56  Analysis  of  characteristic  curve 

57  Various  degrees  of  contrast  expressed  graphically 

58  Gamma  of  unity  illustrated  graphically 

59  The  effect  of  film  "speed"  

60  The  intermittent  contact  printing  mechanism  . . 

61  The  intermittent  optical  printing  mechanism   . . 

62  The  principle  of  "travelling  Matts" 

63  Travelling  Matts  in  detail  

64  A  rotary  contact  printer  . .         

65  A  rotary  contact  sound  film  printer 

66  Newsreel  "cascade"  printing  layout 

67  Comparator  for  printer  grading 

68  The  Bell  &  Howell  fully  automatic  printer 

69  Average  viewing  position  in  an  auditorium 

70  Layout  of  typical  projector  mechanism 

71  Standard  film  leaders  and  trailers 

72  Camera  and  projector  exposure  cycles 

73  Maltese  cross  intermittent  mechanism 

74  Projector  shutter  designs 

75  Relationship  between  projector  optical  components 

76  Early  "straight"  projection  arc  light  source     . . 

77  The  "keystone"  effect 

78  Lantern  slide  projection  change-over  device    . . 

79  The  transmission  of  sound  waves 

80  Sounds  of  various  frequencies 

81  The  human  ear 

82  Micro-illustration  of  disc  recording 

83  General  layout  of  disc  recording  process 

84  The  cutting  head  (disc  recording) 

85  Early  disc  recording  apparatus 

86  Lauste's  original  sound  film  recording  system . . 

87  The  moving  coil  speaker 

88  Principles  of  the  Light  Valve 

89  Early  Western  Electric  recording  machine 

90  The  "aeo-light"  modulator        

91  The  "aeo-light"  fitted  to  camera  for  direct  recording 


Page 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS  13 

Fig.  Page 

92  The  galvanometer 218 

93  Principle  of  Variable  Area  film  recording        219 

94  Bi-lateral  variable  area  recording          . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  220 

95  Push-Pull  Class  A  recording 221 

96  Noise  reduction  with  Variable  Area  recording           224 

97  Sound  recording  film  characteristics      . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  226 

98  Control  of  image  resolution       226 

99  The  cycle  of  sound  recording     . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  229 

100  Variations  in  volume  recorded  by  variable  area  and  variable  density 

systems          . .         . .         . .         . .  233 

101  Relationship  between  light- valve  opening  and  emulsion  characteristic  234 

102  Wave  distortion  analysis 235 

103  Relationship  between  dbs  and  log-exposure    . .         . .         . .         . .  239 

104  Comparison  between  sensitometric  and  recorder  characteristics     . .  239 

105  Typical  method  of  sensitometric  analysis         . .         . .         . .         . .  242 

106  Practical  overall  conditions  for  density  recording 242 

107  Image  distortion  due  to  processing       . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  246 

108  Effect  of  image  distortion  on  average  transmission 246 

109  Distortion  effecting  both  peaks  and  troughs  of  wave  form    . .         . .  248 

1 10  High  and  low  frequency  pure  tones  combined           248 

111  Cross-modulation  signals  in  detail        . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  248 

112  Diagrama tic  analysis  of  cross-modulation       250 

113  A  family  of  cross-modulation  curves    ..         ..         ..         ..         ..251 

114  Variable  density  intermodulation  analysis       ..         ..         ..         ..  253 

115  A  family  of  intermodulation  curves 255 

116  Block  schematic  of  sound  reproduction           ..         ..         ..         ..  257 

117  The  "rear  scanning"  method  of  sound  reproduction 258 

118  Methods  of  sound  track  scanning         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..  260 

119  The  audible  spectrum 262 

120  Sound  recording  and  reproducing  cycle           . .         . .         . .         . .  264 

121  Push-pull  sound  reproduction 266 

122  A  constant  speed  scanning  device         . .         267 

123  Motor  speed  control  circuit       271 

124  Typical  theatre  speaker 272 

125  Causes  of  echo  in  auditoria        275 

126  Narrow-gauge  film  dimensions 286 

127  35-mm  and  16-mm  projection  compared  at  equal  magnification     . .  288 

128  35-mm  and  16-mm  picture  areas           291 

129  35-mm  and  16-mm  sound  track  areas 292 

130  Optical  reduction  picture  printer  layout          293 

131  Twin-head  reduction  printer ..         ..  296 

132  Twin-head  beam-splitting  reduction  printer 299 

133  Principle  of  pilot-pin  registration          300 

134  Fixed  pilot-pins  with  oscillating  gate  mechanism       302 

135  Analysis  of  pilot-pin  location  and  dimensions 303 

136  Methods  of  image  framing  in  printing  equipment 306 

137  Rotary  contact  printing  mechanism 309 

138  D.I.N.  Standard  and  S.M.P.E.  Standard  16-mm  sound  track  location  313 

139  Prevention  of  "optical  slippage'*           315 

140  Magnetic  drive  to  scanning  drums        319 

141  The  design  of  sprocket  teeth 322 


14 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


Fig,  Page 

142  Transmission  of  drive  via  sprocket  teeth         323 

143  Early  optical  reduction  of  sound  tracks           327 

144  The  anamorphote  lens  system  of  optical  reduction 328 

145  The  anamorphote  lens  system  in  a  typical  printing  machine  layout  329 

146  Location   of  film   gate   and   sprocket   teeth   in   "  stationary-gate 

printers"        332 

147  Reduction  printing  processes  compared           337 

148  Optical  printing  versus  re-recording 337 

149  Basic  16-mm  camera  mechanism          343 

150  A  single-frame  exposure  device 348 

151  Preparing  films  to  produce  "wipe"  effects       351 

152  Spring-loaded  oscillating  claw  mechanism       352 

153  A  variable-aperture  shutter  mechanism           355 

154  Relationship  between  Field  of  View  and  Focal  Length         . .  . .  357 

155  A  reflex  viewfinder          359 

156  A  matt  box  attached  to  camera  extension       . .  . .         . .         . .  360 

157  Set-up  for  titles  with  moving  background  by  "single-shot"  exposure  363 

158  The  "Mitchell-type"  intermittent  mechanism 365 

159  Silent  16-mm  projector  layout 367 

160  Comparison  of  camera  and  projector  intermittent  mechanisms       . .  370 

161  The  maltese  cross  intermittent  mechanism 375 

162  Shutter  "cut-off "  efficiency         378 

163  A  double-shutter  mechanism  to  increase  "cut-off"  efficiency  . .  381 

164  The  reflector  and  even  screen  illumination      . .  . .         . .         . .  382 

165  Volume  and  frequency  characteristics  of  Variable  Area  and  Variable 

Density  Sound  Recording   . .         . .         . .         . .         . .         . .  387 

1 66  Projector  sound-head  design . .  388 

167  Sound  film  transport  at  the  scanning  point 391 

168  Details  of  sound  track  scanning. .         . .  394 

169  The  stages  of  reversal  processing          . .         . .         409 

170  Characteristics  of  positive  film  emulsions        414 

171  Scanning  areas  centred  by  "bus  track"  control  system  . .         . .  416 

172  Volume  expansion  by  control  tracks 417 

173  Block  schematic  of  control  track  apparatus 418 

174  Image  spreading  by  reflection 419 

175  Sources  of  error  in  sound  film  drives    ..         421 

176  The  fluid  flywheel  drive 421 

177  Modern  constant-speed  film  drives       ..         422 

178  "Fantasound"  multiple  sound  tracks 423 

179  Interlaced  printing  for  flickerless  projection 426 

180  A  water-cooled  mercury  discharge  lamp  as  projector  illuminant     . .  427 

181  The  polarisation  of  light  waves 430 

182  Stereoscopic  pictures  by  wire  grids       432 


FOREWORD 


I.  D.  WRATTEN,  Hon.  F.B.K.S.,  F.R.P.S. 

(Past  President  Royal  Photographic  Society,  Past  President  British 
Kinematograph  Society) 

In  view  of  the  complexity  of  the  subject,  the  number  of  books 
dealing  with  motion  picture  technology  is  comparatively  small. 
This  book,  therefore,  written  by  my  friend  Leslie  J.  Wheeler, 
is  to  be  welcomed  as  a  serious  effort  to  cover  a  very  wide  field. 
It  is  perhaps  inevitable  that  people  with  specialised  interests  in 
the  general  field  of  cinematography  may  feel  that  their  particular 
aspect  has  been  dealt  with  in  less  detail  than  the  subject  requires. 
However,  to  students  and  those  in  search  of  a  general  source  of 
reference  the  publication  of  this  work  should  be  most  helpful 
and  I  wish  it  every  success. 


15 


INTRODUCTION 


The  purpose  of  this  book  is  to  bridge  a  gap  in  the  technical 
information  available  to  professional  users  of  35-mm  and  also 
the  so-called  sub-standard  gauges  of  cinematography.  Literary 
work  in  this  field  has  generally  been  in  one  of  two  sharply  divided 
spheres;  either  as  highly  academic  theories  written  in  'scientific 
language',  and  only  read  by  the  advanced  specialist,  or  as  popular 
works  giving  the  general  outline  of  'movie  making'  without  impart- 
ing very  much  solid  information. 

Present-day  motion  pictures  are  a  combination  of  two  main 
photographic  processes;  one  is  the  pictorial  photography  of 
motion  -  cinematography  -  and  the  other  is  the  recording  and 
reproduction  of  sound  via  a  photographic  medium.  This  book 
attempts  to  explain  the  practical  theory  and  the  machinery  involved 
in  both  processes.  It  is  confined  to  photographic  work  and,  there- 
fore, whilst  it  deals  with  the  principles  of  sound  recording  generally 
-  and  explains  the  photographic  aspects  in  detail  -  it  does  not 
attempt  to  discuss  the  design  of  amplifiers  or  allied  electrical 
equipment.  A  similar  observation  is  true  of  the  many  specialised 
fields  referred  to  throughout  the  work  such  as  colour  cinema- 
tography and  lighting  techniques  and  equipments. 

Naturally,  the  camera  and  sound  departments  are  both  depend- 
ent upon  the  processing  laboratory  for  their  final  results  and, 
therefore,  a  considerable  portion  of  this  work  has  been  devoted  to 
laboratory  processes.  It  has  been  thought  advisable  to  explain 
clearly  the  principles  involved  rather  than  specific  well-known 
machines  and,  because  of  this,  the  processing  machines  discussed 
are  more  of  value  as  a  demonstration  of  methods  and  principles 
rather  than  as  up-to-the-minute  operating  instructions  to  potential 
laboratory  employees. 

It  is  hoped  that  the  related  problems  of  the  cameraman,  sound 
recordists  and  laboratory  technicians  will  have  been  explained  in 
sufficient  detail  for  each  one  to  be  able  to  understand  more  fully 
the  problems  which  beset  the  others  and,  by  so  doing,  will  bring 
about  a  better  knowledge  of  the  whole  field  of  endeavour. 

17 


18  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

To  the  experts  in  each  field  it  may  be  a  little  irritating  to  find 
such  basic  principles  as  are  given  at  the  introduction  to  most 
chapters.  No  apologies  are  made  for  this  since  it  is  hoped  that  the 
book  will  be  of  service  not  only  to  those  who  are  actively  engaged 
within  the  Film  Industry,  but  also  that  it  will  present  the  techni- 
calities of  a  vast  and  fascinating  field  of  activity  in  such  a  manner 
that  many  who  are  not  well  acquainted  with  such  work  may  gain 
a  greater  understanding  and  enjoyment  from  it. 

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  record  my  very  grateful  thanks 
for  the  assistance  given  so  freely  by  Mr.  P.  White  in  preparing  the 
many  illustrations  used  herein  and  which  form  an  invaluable 
portion  of  the  book. 

Thanks  are  also  due  to  Mr.  R.  H.  Bomback  of  Pathe  Labora- 
tories, Mr.  G.  J.  Craig  and  Mr.  E.  D.  Eyles  of  Kodak  Ltd.  and  to 
the  various  manufacturers  mentioned  throughout  the  text. 

Leslie  J.  Wheeler. 


CHAPTER  1 

GENERAL   PRINCIPLES 


The  Photographic  Image 

In  order  to  understand  the  operation  of  motion  picture  equipment, 
film  processing  apparatus  and  laboratory  control  methods,  it  is 
first  necessary  to  consider  the  basic  'common  denominator'  which 
exists  throughout  the  many  complicated  and  inter-related  activities. 
This  factor  may  be  broadly  described  as  the  photographic  image. 

For  the  present  it  is  only  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  main 
principles  of  the  formation  of  any  such  image  are  clearly  under- 
stood -  at  this  stage  we  do  not  intend  to  go  very  deeply  into  the 
theory  of  photography  but,  should  any  reader  wish  to  do  so,  there 
are  many  authorative  works  already  available  on  the  subject. 

The  following  brief  outline  of  the  process  is  therefore  merely 
intended  to  make  sure  that  subsequent  discussions  of  machinery 
and  processes  will  be  easily  understood. 

As  is  well  known,  all  every-day  objects  (other  than  self-luminous 
bodies)  are  only  seen  because  they  are  capable  of  reflecting  light. 
In  the  case  of  exterior  subjects  the  source  of  light  is  usually  the 
sun  or,  with  interior  subjects,  it  is  usually  some  form  of  artificial 
lighting  equipment. 

The  general  arrangement  for  making  a  simple  exterior  photo- 
graph is  as  follows:  Light  from  the  sun  illuminates  the  scene 
which  is  to  be  recorded;  the  lens  in  the  camera  has  the  ability  to 
focus  an  inverted  image  of  the  scene  at  a  plane  near  the  rear  wall 
of  the  camera  body;  a  shutter  is  normally  located  between  the  lens 
and  the  rear  of  the  camera  so  that,  by  actuating  a  suitable  mechan- 
ism, the  inverted  image  of  the  scene  will  pass  to  the  rear  of  the 
camera  for  a  very  short  time.  If  a  piece  of  film,  coated  with  a  light- 
sensitive  'emulsion',  is  supported  in  the  'focal  plane'  at  the  rear  of 
the  camera  whilst  the  shutter  makes  the  'exposure*  it  is  possible, 
by  suitable  treatment  to  the  film,  to  obtain  a  negative  image  of 
the  scene. 

19 


20  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

The  point  which  concerns  us  at  the  moment  is  that  some 
chemical  action  must  have  taken  place  in  the  film  emulsion  whilst 
it  was  exposed  to  the  rays  of  light  passing  through  the  lens.  The 
film  emulsion  carries  a  suspension  of  thousands  of  minute  silver 
bromide  crystaline  grains  which,  on  exposure  to  light  for  any 
appreciable  period  would  automatically  blacken  (this  is  readily 
proved  by  leaving  a  waste  piece  of  film  in  a  lighted  room  for  some 
time).  The  amount  of  exposure  given  to  a  film  by  rapidly  opening 
and  closing  the  shutter  is  not,  of  itself,  sufficient  to  produce  a 
visual  change,  but  merely  produces  a  'latent'  image.  If,  after  such 
an  exposure,  the  film  is  then  taken  into  a  dark-room  and  placed 
in  a  suitable  solution,  called  the  developer,  the  silver  bromide 
grains  which  were  affected  by  the  light  will  be  reduced,  by  the  action 
of  the  developer,  to  metallic  silver  and  will,  of  course,  become 
black. 

Since  only  those  grains  which  receive  light  will  be  so  affected, 
and  the  density  and  concentration  of  the  blackening  will  depend 
upon  the  intensity  of  the  light,  a  negative  image  of  the  scene  will  be 
formed  and,  if  the  amount  of  exposure  has  been  correct,  the 
distribution  of  the  densities  will  bear  a  true  relationship  to  the 
amount  of  light  reflected  by  the  various  sections  of  the  scene. 

So  much  for  the  actual  developing  process.  It  must  now  be 
remembered  that  other  sections  of  the  film,  which  did  not  receive 
any  illumination,  still  contain  silver  bromide  grains  which,  if  left 
in  their  present  state,  will  blacken  when  the  film  is  taken  out  into 
daylight.  Because  of  this  the  film  must  first  be  immersed  in  a  bath 
of  water,  to  remove  any  developing  solution  which  may  still  be 
on  its  surface,  and  then  be  placed  in  a  'fixing9  bath.  This  is 
basically  a  solution  of  Sodium  Thiosulphate,  and  is  capable  of 
dissolving  only  those  sections  of  the  emulsion  which  have  not  been 
reduced  to  metallic  silver.  After  this  process  the  film  will  consist 
of  areas  of  transparent  film  base  plus  areas  of  varying  degrees  of 
density  which,  together,  form  the  image  of  the  scene.  It  now  only 
remains  to  wash  and  carefully  dry  the  film. 

When  the  film  is  dry  it  may  be  placed  in  contact  with  a  piece  of 
printing  paper,  that  is,  a  piece  of  paper  on  which  has  been  coated  a 
light  sensitive  emulsion,  similar  to  that  on  the  film.  The  emulsion 
surfaces  of  both  the  film  and  paper  should  be  facing  each  other. 
Light  is  then  directed  at  the  film  side  of  this  combination  so  that 
the  paper  is  exposed  through  the  film  and  by  amounts  inversely 
proportional  to  the  densities  of  the  film  emulsion.  By  processing 
the  paper  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  undergone  by  the  film,  a 
positive  image  of  the  scene  will  be  produced. 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  21 

It  is  obvious  that  enlargements  of  the  negative  may  be  produced 
by  placing  the  film  not  in  contact  with  the  paper,  but  in  a  projector 
rather  similar  to  an  optical  lantern,  and  throwing  an  image  of  the 
negative  onto  a  large  sheet  of  sensitive  paper.  More  detailed 
information  will  be  given  concerning  the  processes  of  development 
and  fixation  when  the  operation  of  continuous  motion  picture 
processing  machines  are  considered. 

The  Requirements  of  Motion  Pictures  -  A  Brief  Historical  Survey 
In  order  fully  to  understand  the  modern  cinematograph  camera 
it  is  necessary  to  trace  its  development  from  those  early  inventions 
which  may  now  appear  to  be  extremely  simple.  Much  research 
work  has  been  done  in  an  endeavour  to  establish  the  exact  history 
of  cinematography  and,  as  is  well  known,  many  inventors  have 
contested  their  claims  in  this  connection.  The  following  survey  in 
no  way  pretends  to  unravel  this  problem  -  it  is  merely  concerned 
with  the  development  of  basic  principles.  However,  it  must  be 
remembered  that,  at  the  time  of  their  inception,  these  inventions 
were  looked  upon  as  nothing  more  than  ingenious  novelties  by  a 
public  which  had  only  recently  accepted  the  marvels  of  the 
optical  lantern. 

Motion  pictures  would  never  have  been  possible  but  for  a 
particular  characteristic  of  the  human  eye.  This  characteristic 
is  known  as  'the  persistence  of  vision',  or  retention  of  image,  and 
is  best  described  by  the  following  experiments  and  examples  of 
modern  devices  which,  like  the  motion  picture,  depend  upon  this 
peculiarity. 

If  a  glowing  cigarette  is  taken  into  a  darkened  room  and  whirled 
around  in  a  circular  path,  an  observer  will  see  a  continuous 
glowing  circle  of  light.  It  is  quite  obvious  that  no  such  circle 
actually  exists  and  yet,  due  to  our  inability  to  'forget'  immediately 
the  light  given  by  the  cigarette  after  it  has  moved  to  another 
position,  we  continue  to  'see'  the  glow  until  the  cigarette  again 
returns  to  that  position  during  the  next  revolution  of  the  hand. 
By  such  time,  of  course,  the  impression  -  which  will  then  be 
fading -is  again  stimulated  and  thus  the  eye  appears  to  see  a 
continuous  circle.  This  effect  is  most  conveniently  expressed  by 
Hopwood  as  follows: — 'We  continue  to  experience  the  visual 
effect  of  light  after  it  ceases  to  act'. 

A  modern  example  of  this  is  found  in  the  Neon  directional 
arrows  used  to  indicate  the  entrance  to  some  cinemas,  etc.  Two 
neon  arrows  are  mounted  in  the  same  plane  but  are  displaced  in 
the  direction  indicated  by  the  arrow  heads.  Each  arrow  is  illumi- 


22 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


nated  alternately  and  the  visual  appearance  so  obtained  is  that 
of  an  oscillating  arrow  actually  moving  towards  the  indicated 
direction. 

Returning  once  more  to  the  whirling  cigarette  analogy,  an 
interesting  point  concerning  the  design  of  projectors  and  screen 
brightnesses  should  be  noted.  If,  after  observing  the  imaginary 
glowing  circle  in  the  darkened  room,  the  normal  room  lighting  is 
then  switched  on,  the  appearance  of  a  circle  ceases  to  exist  and  we 
are  once  more  able  to  realise  that  we  have,  in  reality,  been  observ- 
ing the  path  of  a  single  point  of  light.  This  experiment  shows  that 
the  persistence  of  vision  is  not  of  equal  strength  at  all  levels  of 
lighting  contrast.  As  will  be  explained  later,  flicker  in  projected 
motion  pictures  is  dependent  upon  the  contrast  between  the  dark- 
ness of  the  surrounding  auditorium  and  the  brightness  of  the 
screen,  and  also  upon  the  frequency  of  the  interruptions  of  the 
light  beam. 

It  should  now  be  easy  to  realise  that  the  appearance  of  continual 
motion  may  be  obtained  without  actually  recording  the  entire 
cycle  of  movement.  A  very  good  example  of  this  is  given  in  the 
early  'Mutoscope',  which  was  invented  by  Kasler  in  1895,  and  is 
seen  in  Figure  1.  This  instrument  is  still  in  use  as  a  form  of 
entertainment  on  seaside  piers  and  at  fairgrounds.  The  mechanism 


Fig.  1. — Kasler's  "Mutoscope. 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  23 

consists  of  a  series  of  pictures  (either  drawn,  painted  or  photo- 
graphed), mounted  radially  upon  a  central  rotating  hub.  A  spring 
leaf  is  so  positioned,  relative  to  the  pictures,  that  it  will  hold 
successive  cards  stationary  for  a  short  period  whilst  the  central 
hub  is  being  continually  rotated.  An  observer  at  position  'A'  will, 
in  reality,  see  a  series  of  still  pictures,  each  of  which  is  held  in 
position  for  a  brief  period  and  is  then  quickly  removed  from  view. 
What  the  observer  appears  to  see  is  a  continuous  moving  picture, 
since  the  impression  obtained  from  the  first  picture  is  still  present 
to  the  eye  during  that  period  of  the  cycle  in  which  the  picture  is 
being  moved  forward  and  the  second  of  the  series  is  taking  its 
place.  By  so  moving  from  one  picture  to  the  next,  in  a  series  of 
intermittent  forward  movements,  the  entire  sequence  is  observed 
and  appears  to  be  as  one  continuous  whole. 

It  will  now  be  obvious  that,  instead  of  drawing  each  picture 
individually,  as  was  at  first  necessary,  it  should  be  possible  to 
photograph  the  actual  motions  themselves  and  to  record  those 
sections  required  to  obtain  the  illusion  of  continuity.  This  is, 
in  effect,  what  is  done  in  a  cinematograph  camera,  and  a  motion 
picture  may  be  said  to  consist  of  a  series  of  still  photographs 
recording  the  instantaneous  positions  of  moving  objects  at  very 
brief  intervals  of  time. 

From  the  foregoing  it  is  now  possible  to  state  the  problems 
which  beset  the  early  inventors  of  cinematograph  apparatus  and 
which  had  to  be  solved  in  order  to  obtain  the  motion  pictures  as 
we  know  them  to-day.  Firstly,  it  was  apparent  that  some  means 
should  be  provided  to  continually  supply  light  sensitive  material 
to  a  camera  in  such  a  manner  that  still  pictures  could  be  taken  in 
very  rapid  succession.  Secondly,  some  method  had  to  be  devised 
to  rapidly  move  that  section  of  material  just  exposed  and  to  replace 
it  by  an  unexposed  section.  This  change-over  must  take  place 
during  that  part  of  the  cycle  in  which  the  camera  shutter  was  closed. 
To  eliminate  picture  vibration,  an  accurate  means  of  locating  the 
individual  sections  of  photographic  material  had  to  be  devised. 
Finally,  some  means  had  to  be  provided  to  show  these  photo- 
graphic records  and  the  obvious  choice  appeared  to  be  an  adapta- 
tion of  the  optical  lantern. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  words  'light  sensitive  material'  have 
been  used  in  the  foregoing  outline.  This  was  intentionally  done 
to  draw  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  basic  idea  of  motion  pictures 
was  conceived  some  time  before  emulsions  had  been  coated  on 
flexible  celluloid  supports,  or  films. 

One  of  the  earliest  attempts  to  photograph  motion  and  reproduce 


24 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


it  as  a  moving  picture  was  made  by  Demeny  in  1892  and  the 
apparatus  for  projecting  the  results,  known  as  the  'Phonoscope', 
is  shown  in  Figure  2.  In  this  apparatus  a  series  of  twenty-four 


Fig.  2. — Demeny's  "Phonoscope 


glass  plates,  each  bearing  a  record  of  the  instantaneous  position 
of  some  moving  object,  are  mounted  on  a  disc  which  is  inter- 
mittently rotated  so  as  to  bring  each  successive  picture  in  line  with 
the  light  source  and  projecting  lens.  In  this  early  effort  the  disc 
bearing  the  twenty-four  glass  plates  moved  in  steps  and  was 
actuated  by  a  continually  rotated  handle  seen  on  the  side  of  the 
machine.  One  method  used  to  accomplish  this  motion  is  seen  in 
Figure  3  and  is  of  particular  interest. 

The  disc  'A'  was  mounted  on  a  larger  flange  'B'  which  also 
supported  a  short  pin  'C\  Disc  'A*  was  a  close  fit  in  the  semi- 
circular sections  'D'  cut  in  the  edge  of  wheel  'E\  Wheel  'E'  also 
served  to  support  the  glass  plates  'F\  Slots  were  cut  between  the 
semi-circular  sections  'D'  and  are  shown  at  'G\  The  action  of  the 
mechanism  was  as  follows: — Assuming  the  pin  wheel  'A-B-C  to 
be  continually  rotating  in  the  direction  indicated  by  the  arrow,  no 
motion  will  be  transmitted  to  wheel  'E'  until  the  pin  'C  engages 
with  a  slot  *G'  as  seen  in  Figure  3b,  then,  since  a  recess  is  cut  on 
flange  'A',  it  will  be  possible  for  the  wheel  'E'  to  advance  by  a 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  25 

distance  equal  to  one  picture.  When  this  has  occured  pin  'C  will 
be  just  leaving  the  slot  'G'  as  seen  in  Figure  3d.  The  condition 
when  the  pin  is  in  the  process  of  moving  the  pictures  forward  is 
shown  in  Figure  3c.  By  this  means  it  was  possible  to  advance  the 
picture-carrying-disc  intermittently  and  yet  to  continually  rotate 
the  operating  handle. 

Particular  note  should  be  taken  of  the  intermittent  mechanism 
just  described  since  it  forms  the  basis  for  many  modern  motion 
picture  projector  mechanisms.  With  the  introduction  of  photo- 
graphic emulsions  coated  on  transparent  film  support  the  progress 
towards  modern  cinematograph  cameras  and  projectors  became 
rapid.  Two  improvements  were  immediately  available,  the  first 
being  that  a  much  greater  number  of  pictures  could  be  taken  on  a 
roll  of  film  than  could  be  mounted  on  a  circular  disc.  The  second 
feature  was  that  the  film  could  be  easily  rolled  up  and  stored. 

Although  the  earliest  attempts  to  produce  motion  pictures  on 
lengths  of  film  were  made  by  driving  the  film  by  friction,  it  quickly 
became  apparent  that  some  more  positive  form  of  traction  was 
necessary.  The  natural  development  was  therefore  to  perforate 
holes  along  each  edge  of  the  film  and  to  pass  it  over  wheels  carry- 
ing teeth  in  a  similar  manner  to  the  action  of  a  chain  passing  over 
a  sprocket  wheel.  It  was  from  the  likeness  between  these  two 
systems  that  wheels  carrying  teeth  with  which  to  move  perforated 
film  became  known  as  'sprocket  wheels'. 


Fig.  3. — Early  intermittent  mechanism. 


26  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Standard  Dimensions  for  Film  Perforating 

Although  the  introduction  of  emulsions  coated  on  flexible  film 
support  promised  to  solve  many  of  the  problems  previously 
described,  a  state  of  affairs  soon  existed  which  threatened  to  stop 
further  progress  for  some  considerable  time.  Each  inventor  had 
his  own  ideas  concerning  the  most  useful  size  to  adopt  for  the 
actual  picture  dimensions,  the  shape  to  cut  the  perforations  in 
the  film  and  also  the  film  width. 

In  the  year  1899  six  independent  camera  manufacturers  had 
each  standardised  on  a  particular  film  width  which  was  different 
from  the  other  five.  Also,  at  the  same  time,  five  different  types  of 
perforation  were  in  use  and  the  distance  between  the  perforations 
varied  from  one  manufacturer  to  the  next.  It  must  not  be  imagined 
that  each  camera  manufacturer  also  made  his  own  film.  The  usual 
practice  was  to  purchase  the  film  cut  to  the  desired  width  and  then 
to  perforate  it  to  suit  any  particular  type  of  camera. 

So  long  as  those  films  made  by  any  one  company  were  not 
expected  to  be  projected  on  machines  made  by  a  second  company 
this  state  of  affairs  was  no  great  hardship.  However,  once  the 
motion  picture  had  proved  its  worth  small  cinema  circuits  were 
set  up  and,  in  principle,  were  operated  in  a  manner  similar  to 
present  day  practice. 

It  was  therefore  apparent  that,  once  a  manufacturer  had 
managed  to  get  his  equipment  installed  in  a  large  number  of 
cinemas,  he  was  certain  of  holding  all  the  trade  from  those  houses. 
As  would  be  expected,  this  practice  was  quickly  turned  to  profitable 
account  and  many  peculiar  situations  existed. 

This  condition  was  naturally  upheld  by  those  manufacturers 
who  had  managed  to  equip  large  numbers  of  cinemas  with  their 
apparatus.  It  was,  therefore,  perhaps  fortunate  that  at  least  one 
film  producer  found  an  unusual  method  for  overcoming  these 
monopolies  since,  by  so  doing,  it  lead  to  ultimate  standardisation 
throughout  the  industry.  A  particularly  good  film  had  been  made 
and  was  *playing'  to  ever  increasing  audiences  in  those  houses 
equipped  with  one  particular  type  of  machine  when  the  pro- 
prietors of  another  projector,  which  was  not  capable  of  showing 
this  film,  hit  upon  the  idea  of  printing  copies  from  a  film  perforated 
to  suit  the  competitors  machines  onto  film  perforated  to  suit  his 
own  machines. 

Once  this  had  been  done  it  went  far  to  convince  the  manufac- 
turers of  equipment  that  the  time  had  come  to  standardise  on  one 
size  of  film,  carrying  one  type  of  perforation  and  having  those  per- 
forations spaced  along  the  film  length  at  regular  standard  intervals. 


GENERAL   PRINCIPLES 


27 


^fe 


<3  I* 

c 

0°  tfc 


Fig.  4. — The  Prestwich  camera. 

The  Early  Cinematograph  Camera 

The  first  successful  motion  picture  cameras  contained  all  the 
basic  principles  of  their  more  advanced  successors  and  a  typical 
machine  of  the  period  around  1905  is  shown  in  Figure  4.  This 
machine  was  made  by  the  Prestwich  Manufacturing  Company  -  a 
firm  which  produced  a  large  range  of  equipment  in  England  at 
that  time. 

As  will  be  seen  from  the  figure,  the  roll  of  unexposed  film  was 
contained  in  a  light-tight  box  and  was  mounted  on  a  central 
bobbin.  The  leading  edge  of  film  was  taken  through  a  felt  lined 
light  trap  and  fed  over  a  large  sprocket  wheel,  the  teeth  of  which 
engaged  with  the  perforations  of  the  film.  The  film  was  held  in 
contact  with  the  sprocket  by  a  pair  of  jockey  rollers,  spring- 
loaded  to  press  against  the  sprocket  wheel.  A  loop  was  then 
formed  in  the  film  between  the  sprocket  and  the  channel  in  which 
it  was  held  flat  during  the  exposure.  This  channel  is  known  as  the 
'gate'  and  was  formed  in  two  sections,  one  being  fixed  solidly  to 
the  camera  body  and  the  other  arranged  to  open  on  a  hinge  to 
allow  the  film  to  be  threaded  in  the  channel.  That  section  of  the 
gate  which  opened  was  situated  behind  the  film  and  was  provided 
with  a  spring-loaded  pressure  pad  which  held  the  film  flat  in  the 
gate  and  at  the  true  focal  plane  of  the  camera. 

A  second  loop  was  then  formed  in  the  film  between  the  bottom 
of  the  gate  and  the  underside  of  the  central  sprocket.  A  second 
pair  of  jockey  rollers  were  provided  on  this  side  of  the  sprocket 
to  maintain  engagement  between  the  film  perforations  and  the 


28  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

sprocket  teeth.  The  film  was  intermittently  advanced  through  the 
gate  by  a  simple  link  mechanism,  known  as  a  claw,  the  operation  of 
which  caused  the  claw  tips  first  to  engage  with  the  film  perforations, 
pull  the  film  downwards  by  a  distance  equal  to  one  picture  length 
and  then  retreat  away  from  the  film  and  travel  upwards  in  readiness 
to  repeat  the  operation.  This  action  is  clearly  seen  in  the  series  of 
pictures  shown  beside  the  camera  in  Figure  4. 

Geared  to  the  claw  mechanism,  and  rotating  at  right  angles 
to  it,  was  a  disc  shutter,  mounted  so  as  to  interrupt  the  light 
passing  from  the  lens  to  the  film.  The  shutter  consisted  of  a  flat 
plate  having  an  aperture  cut  away  to  enable  light  to  pass  only 
when  that  section  of  the  disc  was  between  the  lens  and  the  film. 
This  shutter  is  also  shown  beside  the  camera  in  Figure  4  and  at 
the  various  positions  it  would  occupy  relative  to  the  claw 
mechanism. 

Thus  the  action  of  the  camera  was  as  follows  :-  Firstly,  the 
shutter  would  pass  across  the  lens  and  so  stop  the  light  from 
reaching  the  film.  The  claw  tips  would  then  engage  with  the  film 
perforations  at  the  top  of  their  stroke.  This  condition  is  seen  in 
Figure  4  at  'A'.  The  claw  would  then  proceed  to  move  the  film 
downwards  by  an  amount  equal  to  one  picture  length,  as  seen  at 
*B\  Figure  4.  The  claw  would  then  disengage  from  the  film 
perforations  and  the  shutter  open  as  seen  at  'C,  Figure  4. 

From  this  moment,  until  the  claw  and  shutter  again  reached 
the  positions  shown  at  'A',  the  film  would  remain  stationary  in 
the  gate  and  would  be  receiving  an  exposure.  For  the  sake  of 
completeness  a  further  condition  of  the  claw  and  shutter  have 
been  shown  at  'D',  Figure  4,  in  which  the  claw  has  returned  half- 
way along  its  path  back  to  the  top  of  the  cycle  and  the  shutter 
has  completed  half  the  exposure. 

From  the  foregoing  it  will  be  realised  that  the  film  will  move 
through  the  gate  by  a  series  of  intermittent  forward  motions, 
interspersed  by  a  series  of  rest  periods.  However,  for  other 
reasons,  it  is  necessary  to  maintain  a  constant  forward  motion 
of  the  film  at  the  central  sprocket.  Because  of  this,  loops  are  pro- 
vided above  and  below  the  gate  and  serve  to  absorb  the  relative 
change  in  length  of  the  film  which  takes  place  whilst  the  camera 
is  running.  Thus  the  loops  are  continually  varying  in  length,  the 
top  loop  being  relatively  longer  when  the  lower  loop  is  short,  and 
vice  versa.  Passing  from  the  central  sprocket  the  film  is  led  via  a 
light-trap  into  a  spool  box,  similar  to  that  containing  the  unexposed 
film,  where  it  is  automatically  wound  onto  a  central  bobbin. 

A  description  of  the  Prestwich  camera  has  only  been  included 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  29 

at  this  stage  to  give  a  more  complete  impression  of  the  develop- 
ment of  the  technique  and  should  not  be  taken  to  apply  entirely 
to  modern  cameras,  more  detailed  descriptions  of  which  will  be 
found  in  Chapter  2. 

The  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers 

In  1916  C.  Francis  Jenkins,  a  man  who  has  made  many  brilliant 
contributions  to  the  advancement  of  cinematography,  founded  in 
America  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers.  (Recently 
renamed  The  Society  of  Motion  Picture  and  Television  Engineers). 
That  we  should  recognise  our  responsibility  to  fix  standards  with 
due  regard  for  the  interests  of  all  concerned'. 

At  the  time  the  society  was  formed  only  one  thing  was  standard 
throughout  the  industry,  and  that  was  the  film  itself!  For  the  past 
41  years  the  society  has  more  than  justified  its  intentions  by 
maintaining  a  high  standard  of  technical  knowledge  as  a  criterion 
of  membership,  thus  making  possible  the  publication  of  a  valuable 
monthly  journal  containing  details  of  the  latest  advancements  in 
the  theory  and  practice  of  motion  pictures.  It  has  also  brought 
about  the  standardisation  of  much  of  the  equipment,  mechanisms 
and  practices  used  throughout  the  industry.  The  many  standard 
dimensions  relating  to  the  manufacture  of  cinematograph  film 
which  have  been  prepared  by  this  society  have  recently  been 
accepted  by  the  American  Standards  Association  and  also  by  the 
British  Standards  Institution.  These  standards  are  of  great 
importance  to  all  people  interested  in  the  theoretical  aspects  of  the 
industry  and  will  be  considered  in  detail  as  and  when  they  apply 
to  the  various  mechanisms  and  processes  covered  by  this  work. 

The  British  Kinematograph  Society 

This  society  was  originally  the  London  branch  of  the  Society  of 
Motion  Picture  Engineers,  but  in  1931  became  an  independent 
organisation  having  the  above  title.  It  is  not  surprising,  therefore, 
that  the  aims  of  this  society  are  very  similar  to  those  of  its  original 
parent  organisation.  However,  the  B.K.S.  has  so  far  confined  its 
activities  to  technical  discussions,  scientific  reports,  demonstra- 
tions of  new  apparatus  and  methods  and  the  general  advancement 
of  motion  picture  practice.  It  does  not  recommend  new  standards 
since,  by  so  doing,  it  might  easily  clash  with  the  Society  of  Motion 
Picture  Engineers.  However,  it  has  co-operated  with  the  British 
Standards  Institute  in  preparing  an  English  edition  of  cinemato- 
graph film  and  equipment  standards  which  agrees  with  those  set 
out  by  the  S.M.P.E. 


30  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

The  British  Kinematograph  Society  has  been  very  energetic 
in  co-operating  with  the  Regent  Street  Polytechnic  to  offer  a 
course  of  instruction  in  cinematograph  technique.  This  course 
is  very  comprehensive  and,  until  recently,  was  the  only  one  of  its 
kind  in  the  country. 

The  Manufacture  of  Motion  Picture  Film 

There  are  five  main  operations  necessary  to  produce  a  roll  of 

cinematograph  film,  these  are:  -  (1)  Preparing  the  emulsions, 

(2)  Coating  the  emulsions  onto  the  support,  (3)  Drying  the  film, 

(4)  slitting  the  film  to  the  required  width,  (5)  perforating  the  final 

roll. 

The  preparation  of  the  emulsion  is  essentially  a  chemical 
operation  of  exceptionally  high  standard  and  is  carried  out  under 
very  exacting  conditions.  Although  the  types  of  emulsions  used 
throughout  the  motion  picture  industry  will  be  described  when 
consideration  is  given  to  sensitometry  and  film  processing,  the 
actual  chemistry  of  photographic  emulsion  making  does  not 
come  within  the  scope  of  this  work. 

However,  brief  mention  may  be  made  of  the  manner  in  which 
the  emulsion  is  applied  to  the  film  base.  Rolls  of  film  base  are 
usually  40-inches  (101.6-cms)  in  width  and  anything  up  to  2,000- 
feet  (609.6-metres)  in  length  and  are  coated  while  still  at  these 
dimensions.  Figure  5  shows  in  outline  the  basic  requirements  of  a 
film  coating  machine.  The  roll  of  uncoated  film  base  is  mounted 
in  a  position  as  shown  at  'A'  and  the  leading  edge  of  the  roll  is 
threaded  under  a  coating  roller  'B',  which  is  then  lowered  into  a 
trough  of  warm  emulsion  as  shown  at  *C\  The  film  then  passes 
vertically  upwards  and  over  a  chilled  roller  'D'  by  which  the 
emulsion  is  'set'.  From  this  point  the  film  is  passed  to  the  first 
of  a  series  of  rollers  shown  at  4E'  which  are  continually  moving 
very  slowly  down  a  long  drying  tunnel  and  in  a  direction  away 
from  the  coating  head. 

The  thickness  of  the  emulsion  will  depend,  amongst  other 
considerations,  upon  the  speed  at  which  the  film  passes  through 
the  emulsion  trough,  and  this  must  be  relatively  fast.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  is  necessary  to  allow  the  film  to  dry  out  very  thoroughly 
and  exceptionally  slowly.  Because  of  this  the  mechanism  which 
carries  the  coated  film  down  the  drying  tunnel  must  move  at  a 
slower  speed  than  that  which  carries  it  through  the  coating  head. 
It  is  therefore  obvious  that  some  intermediate  mechanism  will  be 
required  to  overcome  this  speed  difference. 

Of  the  several  mechanisms  capable  of  performing  this  operation, 


GENERAL   PRINCIPLES 


31 


DRYING    TUNNEL 


TO   TAKE-DOWN 
MECHANISM 


Fig.  No.  5. — Lay-out  of  film  coating  apparatus. 


that  shown  in  Figure  5  is  most  easily  visualised.  It  is  assumed  that 
the  film  has  passed  over  roller  'D',  and  has  been  clamped  in  a 
stationary  position  at  'Ej'  in  the  drying  tunnel.  Under  these  con- 
ditions the  film  between  'D'  and  'E^  will,  initially,  follow  the 
path  indicated  by  'Fj\  If  the  coating  head  is  now  set  in  motion 
the  film  between  'D'  and  'E^  will  gradually  accumulate  and  form 
an  ever  lengthening  loop  as  indicated  at  'Fa',  'F3',  *F4'  and  'F5\ 
A  chain  passing  between  point  'L'  and  a  position  'G'  carries  at 
one  section  an  extension  'H'  so  arranged  that  it  will  come  into 
contact  with  the  lower  roller  of  a  waiting  stock  of  rollers  shown 
at  T. 

A  roller  is  then  picked  up  by  the  chain  extension  and,  in  passing 
upwards  towards  *L',  carries  the  film  with  it  as  indicated  at  'K^', 
4K2',  'K3'  and  'K4\  The  speed  of  the  chain  between  'G'  and  'L'  is, 
of  course,  so  arranged  as  to  absorb  the  difference  in  speed  between 
the  rollers  in  the  drying  tunnel  and  those  at  the  coating  head.  A 
transfer  mechanism  exists  between  the  top  of  chain  'G-L'  and  the 
chain  which  carries  rollers  *E'  along  the  drying  tunnel,  thereby 
automatically  forming  the  coated  film  into  a  series  of  long  loops. 
A  similar  mechanism,  operating  in  reverse,  exists  at  the  dry  end 
of  the  tunnel  and  makes  it  possible  for  the  film  to  be  again  rolled 
up  on  a  large  core.  All  the  rollers  'E'  on  the  second  chain  are  moved 
forward  by  similar  extensions  on  the  chain  links  to  those  which 
exist  on  the  chain  *G-L\ 

The  film  is  then  fed  through  a  slitting  machine  which  produces, 
from  the  wide  roll  of  film,  many  rolls  only  35-mm  in  width.  The 


32  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

slitting  machine  consists  essentially  of  a  supporting  bearing,  to 
carry  the  film  as  supplied  from  the  coating  machine,  two  sets  of 
rotating  knives,  arranged  rather  in  the  fashion  of  mangle  rollers  - 
but  accurately  spaced  to  cut  the  film  into  strips  of  the  required 
width  -  and  provision  for  spooling  up  the  individual  narrow  rolls 
after  slitting.  Film  base  is  a  pliable  material  which  is  not  entirely 
homogeneous.  It  is  therefore  necessary  that  the  spooling  operation 
be  very  accurately  adjusted  to  avoid  uneven  pull  on  the  slitting 
knives.  When  it  is  remembered  that  the  width  of  cinematograph 
film  must  not  vary  by  an  amount  greater  than  0.002-inch  (0.05-mm) 
it  will  be  appreciated  that  the  setting  up  and  operation  of  a 
slitting  machine  is  a  very  highly  skilled  piece  of  work. 

We  now  have  to  consider  a  very  important  stage  in  film  manu- 
facture and  one  about  which  so  much  controversy  occurred  during 
the  early  days  of  motion  pictures.  Bearing  in  mind  that  the  average 
cinema  magnifies  the  picture  in  the  film  by  as  much  as  350  times, 
it  is  not  difficult  to  realise  that  any  errors  made  when  perforating 
such  films  would  be  immediately  apparent  to  the  audience.  Figure 
6  shows  in  outline  the  cycle  of  operations  and  the  various  parts  of 
the  'head*  of  a  typical  perforating  machine.  Diagram  'A'  shows 
the  essential  parts  of  the  mechanism  and,  whilst  different  machines 
may  vary  somewhat  in  detail,  all  employ  these  basic  principles. 
The  'pilot  pins'  are  used  to  accurately  locate  the  film  both  before 
and  during  the  perforating  operation.  These  pins  are  tapered  over 
the  region  near  their  extremities  to  permit  their  easy  entry  into 
film  perforations  which  may  not  be  accurately  presented  beneath 
them.  The  'punch  legs'  are  usually  cut  from  separate  plates,  but 
are  'ganged'  together  for  final  milling  and  grinding.  These  legs  are 
shorter  than  the  pilot  pins  and,  being  moved  at  the  same  time  and 
by  the  same  mechanism  as  the  pilot  pins,  do  not  enter  the  film 
until  it  has  been  accurately  located.  The  shuttle  is  best  described 
by  likening  it  to  the  'under-foot'  of  a  sewing  machine  since  it  is 
used  to  engage  with  the  newly  made  perforations  and  to  advance 
the  film  in  readiness  for  the  next  perforating  operation. 

The  sequence  of  operations  is  therefore  as  follows:  -  firstly,  the 
pilot  pins  enter  the  perforations,  (b),  Figure  6,  and  at  the  same  time 
the  shuttle  commences  to  move  to  the  right.  The  pilot  pins  then 
continue  their  downward  motion  and  the  punches  make  four 
perforations  in  each  side  of  the  film  and  whilst  the  shuttle  comes 
to  the  end  of  its  traverse,  (c),  Figure  6.  The  punches  and  pilot  pins 
then  move  upwards,  clear  of  the  film,  and  the  shuttle  pins  move 
into  the  perforations  as  shown  at  (d).  The  shuttle  then  moves  to 
the  left,  carrying  the  film  with  it,  as  shown  at  (e),  by  an  amount 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  33 

sufficient  to  bring  the  four  perforations  just  made  immediately 
below  the  pilot  pins.  The  shuttle  then  moves  downwards  and  clear 
of  the  film,  as  seen  at  (f),  and  the  cycle  of  operations  is  repeated. 
As  mentioned  previously,  these  diagrams  show  the  operation  of  a 
typical  perforating  machine  and,  whilst  all  machines  are  similar 
in  principle,  many  variations  in  the  mechanism  used  to  perform 
these  operations  have  been  developed  from  time  to  time. 

From  the  plan  view  of  the  perforating  head,  shown  at  'G',  the 
film  is  seen  to  be  guided  in  the  perforating  machine  by  passing  it 
through  a  channel  formed  by  two  pairs  of  'guide  rails',  one  pair 
on  each  side  of  the  perforating  head.  The  complete  guide  rail 
assemblies  are  mounted  in  sliding  beds,  to  permit  their  easy 
removal  when  the  machine  is  being  overhauled,  and  are  fitted 
with  fine  screw  thread  adjustments  capable  of  resetting  the  rails 
parallel  to  the  main  body  of  the  punches.  The  guide  rails  at  the 
rear  of  the  perforating  head  are  termed  the  'fixed  rails'  and  are 
held  rigidly  in  their  beds,  but  the  rails  in  front  of  the  perforating 
head,  termed  the  'floating  rails',  are  spring  loaded  and  move 
sufficiently  to  accommodate  all  the  variations  of  film  width 
likely  to  be  encountered  and  also  to  accommodate  film  which 
may  be  curved. 

From  these  considerations  it  will  be  apparent  that  two  major 
errors  may  occur  in  the  perforating  operation.  Firstly,  it  must  be 
remembered  that  four  perforations  are  made  at  one  blow  of  the 
punch,  as  shown  at  'C\  Figure  6,  and  the  three  spaces  between 
these  perforations  are  therefore  formed  automatically  and  depend 
upon  the  construction  of  the  punches.  However,  the  fourth  space  is 
made  by  drawing  the  film  forward  sufficiently  to  place  the  last 
perforation  made  during  the  previous  blow  of  the  punch  directly 
beneath  the  right-hand  pilot  pin,  as  seen  at  'F',  Figure  6.  If, 
therefore,  for  any  reason,  the  film  is  not  moved  forward  by  the 
correct  amount,  this  fourth  space  will  not  be  equal  in  length  to 
the  other  three  spaces.  When  this  occurs  the  defect  is  termed 
'Uniformity  error'  and  tends  to  isolate  the  perforations  into 
groups  of  four.  Such  a  defect  may  be  caused  by  either  of  two 
errors  in  adjustment,  or  by  the  combination  of  both  errors. 
Firstly,  the  mechanism  controlling  the  stroke  of  the  shuttle,  or 
under-foot,  is  mounted  in  such  a  manner  that  its  position  relative 
to  the  pilot  pins  may  be  varied  and,  secondly,  the  distance  between 
the  pilot  pins  and  the  punch  legs  may  be  incorrect. 

The  second  major  error  which  may  occur  is  caused  when  the 
film  does  not  travel  under  the  punches  in  a  direction  absolutely 
parallel  to  the  main  body  of  the  punches.  This  type  of  defect  is 


34 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  6. — System  of  film  perforating. 

known  as  'squareness  error'  and  it  takes  place  when  the  channel 
formed  by  the  film  guide  rails  is  not  parallel  with  the  perforating 
head,  since,  under  those  conditions,  the  film  will  travel  through 
the  machine  at  an  angle  to  the  punches. 

Any  machine  designed  to  perforate  film  will  only  repeat  a 
fixed  set  of  conditions  for  a  relatively  short  period  and  will  then 
require  adjustment  to  take  up  wear  and  movement  due  to  the 
continual  vibration  of  the  oscillating  head. 

It  is  therefore  necessary  to  provide  tolerances,  between  which 


33S 

NEGATIVE 
PERFORATION 


POSITIVE 
PERFORATION 


MILLIMETRES 

INCH   EQUIVALENTS 

A 

35  OO   +000 

1378    +  O  OOO 

-OOS 

-  0  002 

B 

4  75     *OOI3 

01870  ±0  0005 

C 

2  794  tOOl 

01100*00004 

0 

185     ±OOI 

O  0730±0  0004 

E 

340    ±005 

OI34    ±0  002 

F 

28  17     ±  OOS 

1  109  =*0  002 

G 

NOT  >  0025 

NOT  >  O  OOI 

H 

2  OS  ±  O  025 

0  082=tOOOI 

P 

h98    ±OOI 

0  07B  ±0  0004 

K 

2  794  *  O  Ol 

0II00±0  0004 

R 

05 

0020 

Fig.  7. — 35-mm  film  dimensional  tolerances. 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  35 

the  various  dimensions  of  the  perforated  film  may  fall,  but  which 
will  be  sufficiently  close  to  the  chosen  standard  dimensions  to 
maintain  a  high  quality  in  the  final  screen  picture.  Such  a  series  of 
tolerances  has  been  laid  down  by  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture 
Engineers  and  is  shown  in  Figure  7.  From  this  figure  it  will  be 
readily  appreciated  that  adjusting  a  perforating  machine  is, 
indeed,  a  highly  skilled  operation.  Special  notice  should  be  taken 
of  dimension  'B',  known  as  the  film  'pitch',  which  must  be  held  to 
within  plus  and  minus  0.0005-inch  (0.0127-mm). 


Sequence  of  Operations  in  Film  Production 

Having  now  reached  the  point  when  it  is  possible  to  describe  in 
detail  specific  mechanisms  and  processes  used  in  film  production, 
it  is  timely  to  give  a  very  brief  outline  of  the  general  layout  of 
motion  picture  practice.  For  this  purpose  Figure  8  has  been 
prepared  to  show,  in  diagramatic  form,  the  order  in  which  the 
basic  general  equipments  are  used;  it  will  also  serve  to  introduce 
them  in  their  correct  relationship  to  the  complete  process.  Such  a 
diagram  is  known  in  the  engineering  world  as  a  'flow  sheet'. 

It  is,  of  course,  understood  that,  unlike  the  early  work  referred 
to  previously,  modern  studio  practice  requires  that  two  main 
processes  shall  be  carried  out.  Firstly  the  production  of  a  picture 
record,  and  secondly  the  production  of  a  sound  record.  These 
recordings,  although  originally  made  separately  and  on  different 
machines,  must  eventually  be  arranged  on  a  single  film  support 
and  in  such  relationship  that,  by  the  use  of  a  suitable  projector, 
they  may  be  reproduced  in  perfect  synchronism. 

Referring  firstly  to  the  picture  aspect  of  film  production,  the 
most  convenient  introduction  is  to  follow  the  path  of  the  negative 
film  stock  as  shown  on  the  flow  sheet.  Any  negative  material 
suitable  for  recording  the  action  in  the  manner  required  by  the 
Director  of  Photography  is  loaded  into  the  picture  taking  camera. 
In  this  illustration  Eastman  Plus  X  negative  stock  has  been 
indicated.  Assuming  all  the  necessary  lighting,  setting  and  pro- 
perties have  been  made  available,  the  camera  angles,  exposure 
and  any  effects  which  are  to  be  embodied  in  the  shot  at  this  stage 
have  been  checked,  the  Director  of  the  film  then  passes  judgement 
on  the  acting  and  gives  the  signal  for  the  shot  to  be  recorded. 

As  most  people  are  aware,  film  productions  are  not  made  by 
shooting  the  story  in  sequence.  Usually  all  those  scenes  which 
take  place  on  one  setting  are  shot  together  and  in  any  order  most 
convenient  at  the  time,  afterwards  being  edited  and  re-assembled 


36 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


ARTIST 
MICROPHONE 


CW 


H&-nr-SH 


,  5398 
MiCROF-HONE  FORUilm 
BACKGROUND 

MUSIC 


FINAL  PRINTS  RELEASED  TO  Tm£  CinEma   C'RCUiTS 

Fig.  8. — Sequence  of  film  production  operations. 


in  the  chronological  order  laid  down  in  the  original  script.  There 
are  many  more  details  connected  with  the  rehearsals  and  the 
'acting'  aspects  of  picture  production  which  need  attention  at 
this  stage  but,  to  give  details  of  such  activities  at  the  moment, 
would  only  confuse  the  broad  outline  of  the  process. 

For  editing  purposes  a  'clapper  boy'  was  originally  employed 
to  hold  a  title  card  in  front  of  the  camera  at  the  commencement  of 
shooting.  This  card  carried  all  the  necessary  identification  relating 
to  the  scene  to  be  photographed.  The  card  was  mounted  on  a 
board,  on  the  top  of  which  was  a  thin  section  of  wood  hinged  at 
one  end  -  the  boy  would  slap  the  two  boards  smartly  together 
and  then  quickly  walk  out  of  the  field  of  view  of  the  camera.  The 
picture  camera  recorded  visually  the  moment  at  which  the  boards 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  37 

came  into  contact  and,  of  course,  the  sound  recorder  registered 
the  noise  of  this  contact,  This  was  only  one  method  used  to  obtain 
synchronising  marks  on  both  the  picture  and  sound  negatives. 
Modern  studio  equipment  contains  automatic  apparatus  for 
ensuring  synchronism  and  the  'clapper  boy'  now  only  displays  a 
scene  numbering  title  board.  However,  even  under  modern 
conditions,  certain  situations  may  arise  -  particularly  if  complicated 
'process  shots'  are  being  made  with  several  cameras  in  action  at 
one  time  -  when  it  will  still  be  necessary  to  employ  'clappers'  to 
record  synchronising  marks  on  all  the  films  simultaneously. 

The  rolls  of  picture  negative  are  1,000-ft.  (304.8-metres)  in 
length  and,  when  such  a  roll  is  exhausted,  or  a  section  of  a  partly 
used  roll  is  to  be  processed  immediately,  the  film  magazine  is 
removed  from  the  camera.  These  magazines  are  the  modern 
equivalent  of  the  early  spool  chambers  and  are  fitted  with  light- 
tight  'traps'  designed  to  close  automatically  as  the  magazine  is 
removed  from  the  camera  head.  A  magazine  can  be  removed  from 
a  camera  without  disturbing  its  general  arrangement  and  whilst 
in  brilliantly  illuminated  surroundings. 

The  magazine  is  then  unloaded  in  a  dark-room,  the  film  is 
placed  in  a  light-tight  can  and  may  then  be  transferred  to  the 
processing  laboratory.  Here  it  is  passed  through  a  continuously 
operating  processing  machine,  capable  of  handling  any  amount  of 
film  without  interruption.  After  processing  and  drying  the  picture 
negative  is  transferred  to  a  picture  printing  machine  where,  by 
printing  through  the  negative  onto  a  positive  type  film  emulsion, 
such  as  Eastman  No.  5302  a  positive  image  similar  to  those  used 
in  the  cinema  will  be  produced.  This  positive  copy  is  then 
immediately  developed.  The  picture  negative  is  then  placed  in  the 
film  store,  to  be  held  in  readiness  for  future  use  in  making  up  the 
final  complete  film  if  the  'test  print'  just  made  should  be  acceptable 
to  the  Director. 

Before  proceeding  any  further  with  the  picture  aspect  of  the 
production  we  must  return  to  the  'set'  to  trace  the  course  of  the 
sound  record  up  to  this  point.  From  the  'flow  sheet'  we  see  that 
more  than  one  microphone  may  be  used  at  any  one  time.  This  may 
be  necessary  in  order  to  obtain  the  best  recording  quality  from  all 
areas  of  the  set. 

Since  the  output  from  a  microphone  is  very  small  it  must  be  fed 
into  a  'pre-amplifier'  and  then,  via  a  'mixing  panel'  into  the  main 
amplifier;  the  output  at  this  stage  being  sufficient  to  operate  the 
sound  recording  head.  The  mixing  panel  is  used  to  adjust  the 
volume  and  quality  of  sound  from  each  microphone  until  a 


38  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

correctly  balanced  output  is  obtained  from  all  the  microphones 
in  use.  The  presence  of  more  than  one  microphone  on  a  set  does 
not  necessarily  indicate  that  they  will  all  be  in  use  at  the  same  time  - 
it  is  more  likely  that  they  will  be  'faded  in'  in  turn  as  the  artistes 
walk  beyond  the  range  of  one  and  into  the  range  of  another. 

The  actual  film  used  in  a  recording  channel  depends  upon  the 
type  of  record  being  produced.  (In  Chapter  7  you  will  see  that  two 
main  types  -  Variable  Area  and  Variable  Density  recordings  are  in 
general  use  -  the  emulsions  used  in  each  case  are  vastly  different 
as  also  are  the  processing  solutions  through  which  they  must  pass). 
Here  it  is  assumed  that  a  Variable  Area  'track'  is  being  made  on  a 
film  similar  to  Eastman  No.  5398. 

As  previously  explained,  synchronism  between  sound  and 
picture  must  be  assured  and  recent  improvements  make  possible  the 
recording  of  a  synchronising  frequency  or  constant  pitch  note  on 
the  sound  track  itself  which  occurs  at  the  same  instant  and  via  the 
same  equipment  as  is  used  to  illuminate  a  small  'fogging  lamp'  in 
the  picture  camera  but,  for  the  present,  we  need  only  understand 
that  perfect  synchronism  can  be  guaranteed. 

When  either  the  roll  of  sound  recording  film  is  exhausted,  or 
it  is  required  to  process  that  section  which  has  been  used,  the  film 
magazine  -  which  is  similar  in  design,  and  attached  in  a  similar 
manner  to  that  on  the  picture  camera  -  may  be  removed  and  the 
film  taken  to  the  laboratory  for  processing.  This  film  is  processed 
in  a  machine  which  is  mechanically  identical  with  that  used  to 
process  the  picture  negative.  However,  due  to  differences  in  the  two 
film  emulsions,  it  is  not  always  possible  to  use  the  same  solutions 
and,  as  will  be  explained  later,  when  this  happens,  it  is  overcome 
by  employing  a  separate  machine  for  each  film. 

From  the  processing  machine  the  film  is  then  passed  to  the 
sound  printing  equipment.  As  in  the  case  of  the  picture  negative, 
the  sound  negative  is  then  placed  in  the  film  store  and  held  in 
readiness  for  making  future  copies  or  for  duplicating,  if  so  required. 

The  relative  positions  of  the  picture  and  sound  records  as  they 
appear  on  standard  cinematograph  film  are  shown  in  Figure  9. 
The  total  width  of  the  film  is  35-mm  and,  with  the  emulsion 
towards  the  inspector  and  the  sound  track  on  the  right-hand  side, 
this  width  is  divided  up  as  follows:  -  From  the  left-hand  edge  a 
distance  of  5.047-mm  is  provided  to  accommodate  one  set  of 
perforations,  a  further  22.05-mm  in  which  to  record  the  picture 
image,  2.856-mm  to  accommodate  the  sound  track  and  the  final 
5«047-mm  to  provide  for  the  second  set  of  perforations.  To  avoid 
confusion,  it  is  again  pointed  out  that  the  arrangement  shown  in 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES 


39 


Figure  9  actually  exists  in  positive  film  'married'  prints,  but  two 
quite  separate  films  are  used  on  which  to  record  the  negatives, 
one  being  required  in  the  picture  camera  and  the  other  in  the 
sound  recording  equipment. 

It  should  also  be  noted,  purely  for  accuracy,  that  in  normal 
studio  daily  work  the  picture  and  sound  positive  prints  are  not 
combined  at  this  early  stage  although,  for  special  purposes,  it  is 
possible  so  to  do  (we  have  shown  them  as  combined  purely  to 
give  you  a  quick  idea  of  the  general  method  of  obtaining  the  type 
of  film  used  in  your  local  cinema).  The  studio  'daily  rushes'  are 
sent  from  the  laboratory  as  separate  picture  positives  and  separate 
sound  positives  -  the  studios  have  special  projectors  in  which  the 
two  films  may  be  threaded  up  in  synchronism  and  so,  in  fact,  the 
combined  effect  is  only  seen  at  that  stage  because  of  this  special 
apparatus. 

Referring  again  to  Figure  8,  the  positive  film  will  be  complete  on 
leaving  the  sound  printer,  that  is  to  say,  it  will  contain  both  the 
picture  and  sound  tracks  in  their  correct  relationship  on  one  sup- 
port. This  roll  of  film  is  termed  a  'married  print'.  Since  positive 
film  usually  requires  developing  in  a  solution  which  would  be 
unsuitable  for  either  picture  or  sound  negatives,  a  third  processing 
machine  must  often  be  used  for  this  final  operation  although,  here 
again,  with  some  techniques,  this  is  not  necessary. 


5  347  mm 


Fig.  9. — Picture  and  sound  in  "married"  print. 


40  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

From  here  the  film  passes  to  the  sound  projector  and  it  is 
possible  for  the  Director,  Cameraman,  Sound  recordists  and  others 
to  view  the  final  results  of  that  particular  shot.  All  the  foregoing 
processes  are  carried  out  so  rapidly  that  the  studio  staff  are  able 
to  view  one  day's  'takes'  on  the  following  morning.  The  name 
given  to  this  projection  meeting  is  the  viewing  of  'daily  rushes'. 
At  such  a  meeting  the  good  and  bad  'takes'  may  be  sorted  out 
and  the  Director  will  decide  exactly  which  scenes  are  to  be  included 
in  the  final  film. 

When  the  entire  film  has  been  made  and  treated  in  this  manner 
the  separate  positive  prints  of  each  scene  must  be  re-arranged  in 
their  correct  order  as  laid  down  in  the  original  script.  While  this 
is  being  done  the  films  are  joined  together  into  rolls  of  approxi- 
mately 1,000-ft.  (304.8-metres)  in  length. 

Films  are  edited  on  an  instrument  such  as  a  'Moviola'.  This, 
in  effect,  is  a  miniature  sound  projector  capable  of  running  the 
film  forward  or  backward  and  may  be  instantly  brought  to  rest 
on  a  selected  picture  or  frame.  Some  instruments  are  provided 
with  means  of  running  at  speeds  much  lower  than  the  normal 
sound  film  projecting  speed,  thus,  enabling  the  editor  to  cut  the 
film  at  the  most  advantageous  point  to  create  any  desired  dramatic 
emphasis.  The  picture  may  be  projected  onto  a  ground  glass 
screen  or  viewed  through  a  magnifying  lens  -  it  is  therefore  quite 
small  but  this  is  unavoidable  since  it  is  not  possible  to  use  a  very 
high  powered  light  source  in  these  machines. 

It  should  be  remembered  that,  in  studio  practice,  the  sound 
and  picture  prints  will  be  separate  items  during  the  early  stages 
of  editing  and,  therefore,  must  be  edited  in  perfect  synchronism. 
It  is  during  this  work  that  the  synchronising  marks  at  the  start  of 
each  shot  are  found  to  be  so  useful. 

From  another  department  in  the  studio,  or  from  the  labora- 
tories, all  the  trick  effects,  special  animation,  credit  titles,  etc., 
are  sent  to  the  editor  to  be  cut  into  the  positive  copy  during  the 
process  of  assembly.  The  positive  prints  so  obtained  will,  of 
course,  consist  of  large  numbers  of  short  pieces  of  film  spliced 
together.  When  the  final  editing  has  been  approved  by  those 
responsible  for  the  production,  either  the  original  or  a  duplicate 
negative  is  then  edited  to  match  the  prints. 

Before  the  final  'cinema'  version  can  be  obtained  it  will  be 
necessary  to  record  special  music  to  fit  the  action,  to  record 
all  the  incidental  'effects  sounds',  such  as  footsteps,  door  bells 
and  electric  light  switches  being  operated,  and  the  many  other 
sounds  which  are  needed  to  create  realism  but,  quite  frequently, 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  41 

cannot  be  obtained  when  the  original  dialogue  is  recorded  on 
the  set. 

Eventually  all  these  sounds  will  be  available  but  they  will  most 
likely  be  recorded  on  a  great  number  of  separate  lengths  of  film. 
Each  film  will  be  provided  with  a  synchronising  mark  so  that  it 
can  be  projected  with  the  picture  film  and  in  such  a  way  that  each 
and  every  sound  on  all  the  films  may  be  reproduced  at  the  correct 
point  throughout  the  film.  Naturally,  sounds  which  do  not  overlap 
each  other  (and  also  which  can  be  conveniently  grouped  for  other 
reasons)  can  all  be  joined  together  on  one  length  but,  where 
special  treatment  must  be  given  to  a  particularly  'difficult'  sound 
effect,  this  is  usually  left  entirely  on  its  own  -  the  normal  length 
of  the  picture  reel  being  made  up  by  adding  blank  'leader  film' 
to  the  sound  effect  track. 

Clearly,  all  these  sounds  must  be  welded  together  into  one 
master  sound  track  before  it  can  be  'married'  to  the  picture.  This 
mixing  together  of  the  sounds  is  done  in  a  process  known  as 
'dubbing'  -  it  employs  a  large  number  of  sound  reproducing 
machines  which  can  each  carry  one  film  and  all  of  which  are 
electrically  connected  with  the  picture  projector.  Any  number 
of  films  can  therefore  be  projected  together  on  this  studio  equip- 
ment and  all  of  them  will  remain  in  perfect  synchronism.  Due  to 
a  highly  complicated  electrical  network  it  is  possible  at  this  stage 
to  adjust  the  balance  and  general  quality  between  the  various 
sounds  and  so  to  obtain  a  very  level  pleasing  result. 

Eventually  a  master  picture  negative  containing  all  the  trick 
effects  etc.,  and  a  master  sound  negative  containing  all  the  mixed 
or  'dubbed'  sounds  will  be  produced.  These  will  provide  a  complete 
set  of  all  the  scenes  and  sounds  in  their  correct  order  and  in  con- 
tinuous lengths  made  up  as  nearly  as  possible  to  be  1,000-ft.  (304.8- 
metres)  in  each  case.  Synchronising  marks  are  then  made  at  the 
heads  of  each  roll  of  both  sound  and  picture  negatives.  It  should 
be  noted  here  that,  in  some  of  the  major  studios,  it  is  the  general 
practice  to  preserve  the  original  negatives  which  were  taken  on  the 
studio  'floor'  and  only  to  use  them  when  the  first  duplicate 
negatives  or  master  positives  are  being  produced.  This  process  is 
very  essential  since  an  original  negative  is  an  exceptionally  valuable 
piece  of  material  and,  although  it  may  be  only  a  short  section,  may 
easily  represent  a  large  sum  of  money  spent  on  production 
technique  and  famous  artistes  fees. 

The  edited  duplicate  negatives  containing  the  picture  record 
are  then  passed  to  the  positive  release  printer  and,  before  com- 
mencing to  print  the  copy,  the  synchronising  mark  previously 


42  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

made  at  the  head  of  each  reel  is  transferred  to  the  head  of  the  new 
positive  film.  After  printing,  the  positive  film  is  rewound  and  then 
placed  with  the  sound  negative  onto  the  sound  printing  machine. 
The  films  are  threaded  into  this  machine  so  that  the  synchronising 
mark  which  was  transferred  from  the  picture  negative  to  the  posi- 
tive film  is  now  in  line  with  a  similar  mark  on  the  sound  negative. 
In  this  manner  synchronism  between  sound  and  picture  is  assured. 
It  is  worth  remembering  at  this  stage  that,  although  the  synchronis- 
ing marks  are  actually  in  line  with  each  other,  this  is  only  a  matter 
of  convenience;  they  merely  represent  an  arrangement  which  will 
provide  for  the  sound  to  be  printed  a  definite  distance  in  advance 
of  the  picture.  The  reasons  for  this  arrangement  will  become 
apparent  when  the  film  printing  operations  are  considered  in 
detail  and,  for  the  present,  it  is  only  necessary  to  realise  that  a 
system  capable  of  maintaining  synchronism  right  through  every 
stage  of  the  process  is  employed. 

After  each  printing  operation  the  picture  and  sound  negatives 
are  rewound  and  again  passed  through  their  respective  machines 
until  the  required  number  of  copies  has  been  made.  On  leaving 
the  sound  printer  these  copies  are  termed  'married  prints'  suitable 
for  release  and,  after  processing,  are  complete  in  every  detail  and 
ready  for  distribution  -  first  to  a  Trade  Showing,  then  maybe  to  a 
West  End  Release  (that  is,  of  course,  in  the  case  of  British  pro- 
ductions) and  later  to  a  General  Release  throughout  the  Country. 

It  must  not  be  assumed  that  a  copy  used  at  a  Trade  Showing 
will  necessarily  be  used  again  for  each  subsequent  release;  usually 
new  copies  are  made  for  every  release  but  the  foregoing  outline 
is  merely  to  indicate  the  manner  in  which  a  production  passes 
from  the  studios  to  the  general  public. 


CHAPTER  2 

THE   CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA 


General  Considerations 

A  thorough  understanding  of  the  mechanism  of  modern  cinema- 
tograph cameras  is  most  easily  obtained  by  tracing  their  develop- 
ment from  the  basic  requirements  and  early  inventions  up  to 
present  day  apparatus.  The  requirements  of  all  camera  mechanisms 
may  be  briefly  stated  as  follows:  -  Firstly,  provision  must  be  made 
to  house  both  the  roll  of  unexposed  film  and  also  to  automatically 
wind  up  that  film  which  has  been  exposed.  Such  provision  must, 
of  necessity,  take  the  form  of  light  tight  containers,  preferably 
designed  to  be  removable  from  the  main  camera  body.  Secondly, 
since  we  have  previously  established  the  requirement  of  inter- 
mittent film  motion  at  the  exposing  gate  one  or  more  positive 
feed  and  hold  back  (or  take-up)  sprockets  must  be  provided 
between  the  film  reels  and  the  intermittent  mechanism.  This  is  an 
obvious  requirement  to  isolate  the  constant  pull  exerted  by  the 
take-up  reel  from  that  section  of  film  in  the  gate  which  is,  of 
course,  under  accurate  control  by  the  intermittent  mechanism,  and 
also  to  provide  a  steady  pull  on  the  film  reels.  Thirdly,  the  inter- 
mittent mechanism  itself  must  be  designed  to  move  the  film 
forward  by  an  amount  equal  in  length  to  the  height  of  one  picture, 
bring  it  to  rest,  disengage  from  the  perforations  and  return  to  its 
original  position  in  readiness  to  repeat  the  cycle.  Lastly,  a  con- 
tinuously operating  shutter  must  be  provided  and  positively 
geared  to  the  intermittent  mechanism.  The  shutter  aperture  and 
speed  of  operation  must  be  so  arranged  to  provide  an  adequate 
exposure  each  time  the  film  is  brought  to  rest. 

From  the  foregoing  outline  it  will  be  apparent  that  the  heart  of 
the  camera  is  the  intermittent  mechanism,  and  all  other  considera- 
tions must  rank  as  secondary  to  the  requirements  of  this  unit. 
It  will  be  remembered  that,  to  maintain  the  illusion  of  continuous 
motion  in  the  reproduction,  at  least  16  pictures  must  be  taken  in 

43 


44  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

the  camera  every  second.  Assuming,  therefore,  that  the  complete 
cycle  of  the  intermittent  mechanism  takes  place  in  1/1 6th  of  a 
second,  approximately  half  of  this  time  must  be  occupied  by  the 
mechanism  returning  to  the  'start'  position  after  it  has  moved  the 
film  forward  by  one  picture  length.  This  being  so,  the  actual 
'pull-down'  must  take  place  within  l/32nd  of  a  second.  Since  the 
film  is  required  to  be  absolutely  stationary  both  immediately 
before  and  just  after  the  pull-down,  the  mechanism  must,  in 
engineering  terms,  accelerate  the  film  from  rest  up  to  its  maximum 
linear  speed  within  half  the  period  allotted  for  the  pull-down, 
that  is,  within  l/64th  of  a  second.  The  distance  to  be  covered  by 
the  pull-down  is,  of  course,  the  height  of  one  picture,  that  is, 
0.750-inch  (18.85-mm).  A  little  consideration  will  show  that,  at 
the  centre  of  the  pull-down,  the  film  will  be  moving  at  a  linear  speed 
of  3-feet  (91.44-cms)  per  second.  The  requirements  to  be  fulfilled 
by  a  camera  intermittent  mechanism  are  therefore  as  follows:  -  To 
accelerate  the  film  from  rest  up  to  a  speed  of  3-feet  (91.44-cms) 
per  second  and  then  to  immediately  retard  the  speed  back  to  zero  - 
the  whole  process  to  take  place  within  l/32nd  of  a  second  and  over 
a  distance  of  0.750-inch  (18.85-mm). 

The  foregoing  condition  only  applies  to  film  operating  at  so 
called  'silent  speed',  or  16  frames  per  second.  When  operating  at 
'sound  speed',  or  24  frames  per  second,  the  conditions  become 
even  more  severe  and  may  be  stated  as  follows:  -To  accelerate  the 
the  film  from  rest  up  to  a  speed  of  4-ft  6-inches  (137.15-cms)  per 
second  and  then  to  immediately  retard  the  speed  back  to  zero,  the 
whole  process  to  take  place  within  l/48th  of  a  second. 

Add  to  the  above  fact  that,  under  these  conditions,  the  mech- 
anism is  expected  to  position  the  film  to  within  an  accuracy  of 
something  less  than  0.001 -inch  (0.025-mm)  and  it  is  not  difficult 
to  realise  why  this  section  of  the  camera  is  considered  to  be  so 
important.  By  following  the  general  development  of  the  inter- 
mittent mechanism  the  progress  made  in  general  camera  design 
will  also  become  apparent. 

When  such  a  course  is  adopted  it  becomes  difficult  to  imagine 
the  conditions  which  existed  in  the  early  days  of  the  Industry. 
The  growth  of  the  motion  picture  has,  by  comparison  with  other 
activities,  taken  place  in  an  amazingly  short  period;  printing 
machinery,  continuous  processing  machinery,  the  many  optical 
devices  and,  of  course,  the  entire  field  of  sound  recording  were 
still  to  be  discovered  50  years  ago.  In  considering  these  early 
mechanisms  we  must,  therefore,  remember  that  the  pioneers 
could  only  judge  the  quality  of  their  cameras  by  the  resultant 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA  45 

films  screened  by  equally  uncertain  projectors.  As  would  be 
expected,  the  improvements  to  camera  and  projector  mechanisms 
were  both  gradual  and  inter-dependent.  In  fact,  at  the  outset,  the 
mechanism  used  in  the  camera  was  often  identical  with  that  used 
in  the  projector. 


Early  Mechanisms 

One  of  the  earliest  camera  mechanisms  which  enjoyed  any  measure 
of  success  was  manufactured  by  Demeny  and  employed  the 
eccentric  pin,  or  'dog  movement',  seen  in  Figure  10.  The  mechanism 
consisted  of  a  spring-loaded  gate  channel  'F',  at  the  lower  end 
of  which  was  mounted  a  free  guide  roller  'B\  From  this  point  the 
film  'D'  was  led  directly  to  the  continuously  rotating  sprocket 
wheel  'C,  around  which  it  was  guided  by  rollers  'G'.  Between 
gate  roller  'B'  and  the  sprocket  'C  a  circular  flange  'H\  carrying 
an  eccentric  pin  'A',  was  arranged  to  make  one  complete  revolu- 
tion for  every  picture  length  drawn  forward  by  the  sprocket.  The 
mechanism  was  so  adjusted  that  the  pin  'A'  would  just  touch  the 
film  as  it  formed  a  straight  line  between  roller  'B'  and  sprocket 
'C\  Since  the  eccentric  pin  travelled  in  the  opposite  direction  to 
the  sprocket  wheel  the  film  would  be  pulled  through  the  gate 
'F'  at  a  speed  and  by  an  amount  dependent  upon  the  combination 
between  the  action  of  the  eccentric  pin  and  the  direct  forward 
pull  of  the  sprocket. 

The  eccentric  pin  caused  the  film  to  form  into  a  looped  path, 
as  indicated  at  'E',  and  then  to  pass  out  of  contact  on  reaching 
position  'J'  until  it  again  occupied  position  'A'.  The  loop  so  formed 
then  supplied  a  reservoir  of  film  from  which  the  sprocket  'C 
could  draw  its  supply  until  the  loop  again  returned  to  a  straight 
line.  By  such  time  the  pin  would  have  travelled  from  position  'J' 
to  position  'A',  and  the  cycle  of  operations  would  then  be  repeated. 
A  considerable  tension  was  applied  to  the  film  held  between  the 
gate  sections  at  'F'  since  this  was  the  only  means  available  to 
bring  the  film  to  rest  after  the  'dog'  had  formed  the  loop. 

Although  this  mechanism  certainly  provided  an  intermittent 
motion  of  the  film  at  the  gate,  it  suffered  from  many  serious 
disadvantages.  The  variations  in  film  shrinkage  were,  at  that  time, 
so  great  that  the  pictures  did  not  remain  in  step  with  the  perfora- 
tions and  consequently  appeared  to  creep  either  up  or  down  the 
screen  when  projected.  Attempts  were  made  to  overcome  this 
tendency  by  providing  means  to  adjust  the  throw  of  the  pin  'A' 
to  suit  the  various  shrinkages  encountered.  Although  the  'dog' 


46 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

As 


Fig.  10. — "Dog  Movement"  intermittent  mechanism. 

movement  was  used  by  a  number  of  manufacturers,  and  modified 
in  several  ways,  it  was  never  entirely  successful. 

The  next  mechanism  which  should  be  noted  is  of  considerable 
importance,  being  the  forerunner  of  the  very  successful  Maltese 
Cross  movement  used  in  most  present  day  projectors.  It  is  always 
dangerous,  when  dealing  with  these  early  inventions,  to  herald  any 
particular  person  as  its  originator.  In  fact,  judging  from  the  number 
of  law  suits  recorded  in  the  Industry's  history  books,  it  seems 
likely  that  some  doubt  existed  when  the  first  patents  were  issued. 
However,  we  do  know  that  one  of  Britain's  well-known  pioneers, 
Robert  W.  Paul,  used  the  Maltese  Cross  type  of  mechanism  shown 
in  Figure  11.  This  was  used  both  in  cameras  and  projectors  and 


Fig.  II.— Double  Maltese  Cross  by  R.  W.  Paul 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH  CAMERA  47 

the  action  of  the  cross  is  as  follows:  -  The  central  pin  wheel  'A*  is 
the  driving  member  and,  if  rotated  in  the  direction  indicated, 
extension  'D'  will  eventually  engage  with  slot  'E\  cut  in  cross  'B\ 
and  cause  it  to  rotate  until  slot  'E'  occupies  the  position  *F\  At  the 
same  time,  and  in  synchronism  with  this  action,  pin  'G'  will  engage 
slot  'H\  cut  in  cross  'C,  and  rotate  it  from  'EP  to  T.  Sprocket 
wheels  are  attached  to  the  shafts  which  support  both  crosses  and 
the  film  is  drawn  tightly  between  them  as  shown  at  'L\ 

The  sprocket  wheels  will  both  rotate  in  an  anti-clockwise 
direction.  The  section  of  film  between  the  sprockets  is  utilised  as 
the  'gate'  of  the  camera  and  is  not  held  under  any  more  tension 
than  the  guiding  effect  supplied  by  the  sprockets  themselves.  It 
may  be  assumed,  however,  that  some  type  of  'back-plate'  was 
used  to  ensure  an  adequate  control  over  the  focal  plane. 

Although  this  is  a  very  neat  arrangement,  and  one  which  would 
permit  the  construction  to  become  very  small,  it  has  several  dis- 
advantages. Firstly,  it  would  require  exceptionally  accurate  work- 
manship to  manufacture  two  crosses  which  would  both  'mesh' 
perfectly  with  a  central  driving  pin,  and,  supposing  this  could  be 
accomplished,  such  an  arrangement  would  only  succeed  with  film 
which  had  been  perforated  to  an  equal  accuracy  and  remained  free 
from  shrinkage.  Quite  obviously  such  objections  could  be  overcome 
by  spring  loading  one  sprocket  with  respect  to  its  driving  cross. 
Unfortunately  such  a  move  would  tend  to  destroy  the  desired 
results,  namely  to  obtain  adequate  control  over  the  film  without 
the  use  of  complicated  gate  and  tensioning  devices. 

The  next  noteworthy  step  was  made  by  Arthur  S.  Newman  when 
Messrs.  Blair  &  Danelo  requested  him  to  modify  a  camera  operated 
by  the  'dog'  principle,  that  is,  a  movement  similar  to  that  shown 
in  Figure  10.  Details  of  this  modification  are  not  available,  but  it 
is  known  to  have  included  the  addition  of  'pilot  pins'  in  the  film 
gate.  Pilot  pins  are  used  in  almost  every  camera  these  days,  and 
their  purpose  is  to  enter  the  film  at  the  moment  it  is  brought  to 
rest  by  the  intermittent  mechanism.  This  entry  is  completed  before 
the  shutter  is  opened  and  the  pilot  pins  remain  stationary,  control- 
ling the  film,  during  the  exposure.  The  pins  move  away  and  out 
from  the  perforations  after  the  shutter  has  closed  and  just  before 
the  intermittent  starts  to  move  the  film  forward  once  more.  The 
action  of  these  pins,  and  the  accuracy  with  which  they  are  made, 
will  be  discussed  when  modern  cameras  and  equipment  are  dealt 
with.  For  the  present  it  is  worth  noting  that  they  were  in  use,  like 
most  essential  parts  of  present  day  cameras,  as  far  back  as  1900. 
Another  unusual  feature  of  this  camera  was  an  oscillating  shutter, 


48 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


/\ 


W]    p    rE 

a  •  ' 

8  2 


fltjs3 


Fig.  12. — Operation  of  oscillating  shutters. 


that  is,  a  shutter  continually  moving  up  and  down  in  front  of  the 
exposing  aperture.  It  is  very  doubtful  if  this  could  have  been  very 
efficient  since  such  mechanisms  must  cause  one  section  of  the 
negative  to  receive  more  exposure  than  the  other. 

Oscillating  shutters  have  been  used  from  time  to  time  and, 
although  admittedly  inefficient,  it  is  perhaps  advisable  to  draw 
attention  to  the  action  of  such  mechanisms.  The  type  of  shutter 
referred  to  is  seen  in  Figure  12.  The  shutter  mask  'B'  is  caused  to 
oscillate  vertically  in  guide  channels  'A'  by  a  simple  crank  and 
eccentric  *D\  The  picture  aperture  'C  has  been  misplaced  to  show 
more  clearly  the  relationship  between  it  and  the  shutter.  At  the 
beginning  of  the  stroke,  as  the  shutter  moves  downwards,  a  thin 
section  of  film  may  be  considered  as  shown  at  *1\  This  section  will 
be  exposed  for  the  maximum  time,  that  is,  until  the  shutter  returns 
to  this  position  as  shown  at  '7'.  That  section  of  film  at  the  base  of 
the  aperture  will,  however,  only  be  exposed  when  the  shutter  has 
reached  the  position  at  '3'.  This  lower  section  will  cease  to  be 
exposed  after  the  shutter  has  returned  to  a  position  shown  at  *5\ 
The  difference  between  the  exposure  given  to  these  two  positions 
in  the  aperture  may  be  reduced  by  lengthening  the  stroke  of  the 
link  and  eccentric  mechanism  'D\  Unfortunately  such  a  move 
would  require  a  very  long  shutter  mask  in  order  to  maintain 
adequate  'cut  off'  time,  in  which  the  shutter  is  closed,  to  enable 
the  film  to  be  moved  forward  by  the  intermittent  mechanism. 

Returning  to  the   development   of  the  intermittent,   a  large 


THE   CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA 


49 


number  of  machines  were  made  by  the  Biograph  Company.  One 
of  the  machines  used  by  this  concern  is  shown  in  Figure  13  and 
is  seen  to  consist  essentially  of  two  mutilated  rollers.  These 
rollers  are  so  positioned  that,  when  in  mesh,  as  seen  at  'B',  the 
film  will  be  gripped  and  caused  to  move  downwards.  When  in 
position  'A'  the  film  will  remain  stationary  and  the  exposure  may 
be  made.  Such  a  condition  will  only  exist  if  a  heavy  tension  is 
provided  between  the  members  forming  the  gate  channel.  When 
such  a  mechanism  was  used  in  a  projector  it  suffered  from  similar 
disadvantages  as  were  encountered  with  the  dog  movement.  To 
overcome  loss  of  'framing',  that  is,  in  an  attempt  to  hold  the  picture 
steady  when  the  film  pitch  varied,  provision  was  made  whereby  one 
roller  could  be  advanced  with  respect  to  the  other.  This  condition 
is  seen  at  'C  and  'D',  Figure  13.  Such  an  adjustment  served  to 
reduce  the  total  time  during  which  the  rollers  were  in  engagement 
with  the  film  and,  consequently,  reduced  the  amount  by  which  the 
film  was  advanced  during  one  revolution.  Quite  apart  from  the 
aforementioned  disadvantages,  the  mechanism  was  liable  to  lock 
solidly  if  an  attempt  were  made  to  pass  joined  film  through  the 
rollers  since,  under  such  conditions,  two  thicknesses  of  film  were 
required  to  pass  between  them.  It  is  not  surprising  that,  at  this 
stage  steady  pictures  were  the  exception  rather  than  the  rule  and 
the  cinema  became  known  as  the  'jumpers'. 

Although  many  different  intermittents  were  devised  in  an  effort 
to  improve  this  condition,  all  have  been  rejected  in  favour  of  the 
claw  mechanism  some  form  of  which  is  now  used  in  all  cinemato- 
graph cameras. 


© 


D        £<0 


Fig.  13.— Intermittent  film  motion  by  mutilated  rollers. 


50 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  14. — Intermittent  film  claw  by  W.  Darling. 


Claw  Mechanisms 

One  of  the  first  claw  mechanisms  was  used  by  W.  Darling  and  is 
seen  in  Figure  14.  The  main  claw  lever  'A'  is  attached  to  an 
eccentric  pin  *B\  mounted  on  a  rotating  disc  *C\  A  second  lever 
*D'  is  attached  by  a  universal  joint  'E'  to  the  main  claw.  One  end 
of  this  lever  is  guided  in  a  channel  'F'  and  the  other  end  is  attached 
by  an  eccentric  pin  'G'  to  a  rotating  disc  *H\  Disc  'H'  is  arranged  to 
rotate  at  twice  the  speed  of  disc  "C  and,  by  this  combination,  path 
T"  is  traced  by  the  claw  tips.  This  mechanism  is  interesting  for  two 
reasons.  Firstly,  the  time  taken  by  the  claw  to  'pull-down'  the 
film  is  comparatively  short  and  secondly  a  mechanism  very 
similar  to  this  is  now  used  in  several  well  known  16-mm  projectors. 
Figure  15  illustrates  an  early  claw  used  by  the  Williamson 
Company  and  should  be  mentioned  here  for  two  reasons.  Firstly, 
it  was  an  attempt  to  obtain  a  straight  motion  of  the  claw  tips  at 
that  section  of  their  path  when  they  were  in  engagement  with  the 
film.  Secondly,  it  forms  a  link  between  the  earlier  mechanisms  and 
many  present  day  intermittents.  The  action  of  the  claw  was  as 
follows:  -  The  main  claw  lever  *E'  was  attached  to  an  eccentric  pin 
*A\  mounted  on  a  continuously  rotating  disc  *B\  A  section  of  the 
claw  lever  was  shaped  to  form  a  segment  of  a  circle  and  a  curved 


THE   CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA 


51 


Fig.  15. — Early  Williamson  intermittent  mechanism. 


slot  'C  was  cut  therein.  This  slot  travelled  over  a  stationary  pin 
'D'  and  the  combination  between  the  circular  motion  at  'A'  and 
the  curved  oscillatory  motion  at  'C  constrained  the  claw  tips  to 
travel  in  a  path  indicated  by  *G\  This  path  is  approaching  the 
shape  of  the  capital  letter  D,  which  was  for  many  years  considered 
to  be  the  ideal  path  for  a  claw  mechanism  since,  it  was  argued,  the 
claw  could  enter  the  film  perforations  at  the  top  of  the  straight 
stroke  of  the  D,  pull  the  film  down  whilst  following  this  straight 
stroke,  and  then  retreat  outwards  and  upwards  from  the  perfora- 
tions in  readiness  to  repeat  the  operation. 

The  next  mechanism  of  interest  was  that  used  by  Prestwich, 
and  is  a  further  step  towards  the  modern  version  of  the  link 
mechanism.  The  Prestwich  claw  is  seen  in  Figure  16  to  consist  of 
a  main  lever  'A',  pivoted  at  *B'  on  a  eccentric  pin,  mounted  on 
flange  'C\  and  constrained  about  point  'D'  by  a  short  lever  *E* 
Lever  *E'  oscillates  about  a  fixed  centre  *F\  This  combination 
produced  at  point  'G'  a  path  shown  at  *H\  A  further  section  T, 
manufactured  from  spring  steel,  and  formed  with  a  slot  cut  along 
the  upper  section,  was  rivetted  to  the  main  lever  at  'K\  Point  4G' 
of  the  main  lever  was  arranged  to  pass  through  the  slot  cut  in  the 
spring  section  and  claw  tips  were  secured  to  the  spring  as  shown 
at  4L\  The  mechanism  was  operated  close  to  the  gate  *M'  and  so 
that  spring  'J*  would  be  forced  to  move  towards  the  lever  'A'  on 
contacting  the  guide  'N*  in  the  gate.  This  closing  action  was 


52 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  16. — Modified  Prestwich  intermittent  mechanism. 


arranged  to  take  place  during  that  portion  of  the  cycle  employed 
to  pull  the  film  through  the  gate,  thereby  modifying  the  claw  path 
to  that  shown  at  'P'. 

Whilst  this  mechanism  admittedly  produced  the  required 
'straight  pull-down',  it  was  not  very  rigid  and  was  liable  to  'whip' 
at  high  speeds.  A  further  disadvantage,  which  may  not  have  been 
considered  to  be  objectionable  in  days  before  the  sound  film, 
would  now  be  the  considerable  noise  set  up  by  the  spring  claw-tips 
coming  into  contact  with  the  stationary  gate  section. 

From  the  previous  examples  it  will  be  apparent  that  many 
variations  of  the  claw  path  may  be  produced  by  modifying  these 
designs.  Arthur  S.  Newman  made  a  very  exhaustive  study  of 
intermittent  mechanisms  and  standardised  upon  a  'simple  link 
claw*  as  the  basis  for  the  camera  produced  under  the  name 
'Newman-Sinclair'  and  which  is  very  popular  amongst  many 
cameramen  to-day.  The  principle  of  the  Newman  claw  is  explained 
with  reference  to  Figure  17.  The  mechanism  consists  of  a  main 
lever  'L\  anchored  to  an  eccentric  rotating  pin  'K',  mounted  on  a 
disc  'J'.  At  a  point  'O'  a  secondary  lever  'N'  is  attached  by  a  pin 
joint  and  is  constrained  to  oscillate  about  a  fixed  centre  *M\ 
The  claw  tips  are  indicated  at  'P'. 


THE   CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA 


53 


This  mechanism  has  the  advantage  of  simplicity  in  construction 
since  it  is  made  with  pin  jointing  throughout  and,  consequently, 
is  very  silent  in  operation.  Newman  considered  that  any  mechanism 
which  included  cams,  sliding  members  or  reciprocating  parts  was 
unlikely  to  maintain  an  accurate  path  and  would  certainly  increase 
manufacturing  difficulties. 

The  divided  circle  *S'  indicates  sixteen  selected  points  in  the 
rotation  of  the  eccentric  pin  on  disc  T.  By  plotting  the  path 
of  the  claw  tip  when  pin  *K*  is  placed  in  these  positions,  the 
outline  shown  at  T  is  produced.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  speed 
at  which  the  claw  moves,  while  in  engagement  with  the  film,  may 
be  gathered  from  the  separation  of  the  vertical  lines  6,  5,  4,  3,  2,  1, 
16,  15,  14  and  13.  This  mechanism  therefore  causes  the  film  to  be 
moved  first  slowly  from  rest,  up  to  maximum  speed  at  the  centre 
of  the  'pull-down',  and  then  retards  the  movement  towards  the 
end  of  the  stroke.  It  is  very  important  to  realise  that  the  claw  assists 
in  retarding  the  motion  since,  by  this  action,  it  makes  possible 
the  use  of  considerably  less  tension  in  the  film  gate  than  would 
otherwise  be  needed. 

The  shape  of  the  claw  path  may  be  altered  considerably  by 


Fig.  17.— Analysis  of  claw  motion  by  Arthur  S.  Newman. 


54  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

varying  the  proportionate  dimensions  of  the  various  members  of 
the  combination.  The  stroke  of  the  claw  is  dependent  upon  the 
throw  of  the  eccentric,  but  is  not  equal  to  this  throw  since  the 
main  claw  lever  does  not  remain  parallel  to  the  path  of  the  film. 
The  height  to  which  the  claw  is  lifted  away  from  the  film  is  control- 
led by  the  lengths  *B'  and  'C\  Decreasing  'B'  and  increasing  4C 
will  cause  a  greater  lift,  and  vice  versa.  Altering  the  length  of  link 
*E'  causes  the  straight  section  of  the  'D'  path  either  to  curve 
inwards  or  outwards.  Lengthening  the  link  will  tend  to  produce 
'path  A',  Figure  17,  while  shortening  it  will  produce  'path  B\ 
Lengthening  the  distance  between  the  two  fixed  centres,  that  is, 
dimension  'F\  will  tilt  the  right  side  of  the  path  upwards,  as 
indicated  in  'path  C,  whilst  shortening  dimension  'F'  will  tilt  the 
path  downwards.  The  claw  path  should  be  so  adjusted  that  the 
straight  back  of  the  'D'  is  at  a  slight  angle  to  the  plane  of  the  film, 
as  indicated  at  'path  D',  in  order  to  obtain  the  maximum  advantage 
from  the  decelerating  action  of  the  claw  towards  the  end  of  the 
stroke. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  consider  further  developments  of  the 
camera  intermittent  mechanism,  but  attention  should  be  turned 
to  some  interesting  developments  in  general  camera  design.  By 
the  early  1920's  most  cameras  were  fitted  with  removable  film 
magazines,  either  friction  clutches  or  belt  tensioning  devices  to 
the  take-up  shafts,  and  most  models  employed  the  single  central 
sprocket  used  both  to  supply  and  take-up  the  film.  With  such 
developments  well  established,  the  conventional  design  became 
that  which  is  seen  in  Figure  18.  The  film  magazine,  a  kidney 
shaped  casting  as  seen  at  *A\  is  secured  to  the  main  camera 
body  'C  by  a  central  locking  screw  'B\  Provision  is  usually  made, 
in  the  form  of  guide  channels,  to  accurately  align  the  magazine  with 
the  camera  body. 

The  unexposed  film,  usually  1,000-feet  (304.8-metres)  in  length, 
is  mounted  in  the  forward  compartment  of  the  magazine  on  a 
central  hub,  shown  at  'D'  whilst  the  exposed  film  is  wound  on  a 
second  hub,  mounted  in  the  rear  compartment  and  shown  at  'E\ 
The  magazine  is  usually  large  enough  to  accommodate  1,000-feet 
(304.8-metres)  of  film  on  both  the  supply  and  take-up  hubs  and 
at  the  same  time  although,  of  course,  this  condition  would  never 
arise.  However,  some  magazines  are  so  designed  that  the  supply 
and  take-up  compartments  overlap,  the  space  in  the  take-up 
section  only  becoming  sufficiently  large  to  accommodate  the  full 
roll  as  the  supply  reel  becomes  smaller.  This  practice  is  quite 
sound  and  has  much  in  its  favour  when  a  very  compact  camera  is 


THE   CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA  55 

required.  Naturally  such  a  practice  eliminates  the  possibility  of 
using  film  which  may  be  supplied  on  a  spool  -  modern  practice 
is  always  to  supply  film  on  a  2-inch  (50.79-mm)  diameter  central 
core,  without  flanges,  unless  requests  to  the  contrary  are  made 
when  the  order  is  placed  with  the  manufacturer. 

The  magazine  cover  may  be  either  a  single  door,  hinged  at 
a  line  where  the  magazine  joins  the  camera  body,  or  it  may  take 
the  form  of  two  circular  discs  which  screw  into  suitable  openings 
in  the  magazine  castings.  The  latter  method  has  now  become  most 
popular  as  it  ensures  absolute  safety  from  light  fog  and  does  not 
permit  errors  in  locating  lock  fasteners.  Some  magazines  are  fitted 
with  automatically  operated  light  traps,  (through  which  the  film 
is  led  to  the  camera  mechanism),  arranged  to  open  only  after  the 
magazine  has  been  located  on  the  camera  body  and  clamped  into 
position.  In  all  cases  provision  is  made  to  thread  the  magazine 
before  it  is  attached  to  the  camera  and  to  leave  an  adequate  loop 
between  the  inlet  to  each  spool  chamber.  A  corresponding  aperture 
is  provided  in  the  top  of  the  camera  body  through  which  this  loop 
may  be  passed  as  the  magazine  is  being  located  in  position.  If 
automatic  light  traps  are  not  used  it  is  usual  to  find  close  fitting 
felt  pads  fitted  to  the  slots  through  which  the  film  enters  and  leaves 
the  magazines.  However,  this  method  frequently  leads  to  scratches 
on  the  negative,  due  to  an  accumulation  of  dust  on  the  surface  of 
the  pads  and,  in  consequence,  has  been  discontinued  in  modern 
apparatus.  Two  guide  rollers,  'G'  and  'L',  Figure  18,  are  provided 
in  the  magazine  to  lead  the  film  from  the  central  cores  and  into 
the  camera  body. 

The  camera  body,  usually  of  cast  aluminium,  contains  all  the 
essential  mechanism  although,  by  comparison  with  early  models, 
it  is  greatly  reduced  in  size.  It  is  almost  universal  practice  to  use  a 
central  sprocket  as  seen  at  *F\  to  act  both  as  a  feed  and  take-up 
control.  The  film  gate  may  be  mounted  in  an  accurately  machined 
horizontal  slide  to  enable  the  film  channel  to  be  moved  laterally 
away  from  the  optical  axis  of  the  camera  and,  at  the  same  time,  to 
introduce  a  focusing  screen  in  precisely  that  plane  which  was 
previously  occupied  by  the  film.  Some  cameras  have  mirror- 
surfaced  shutters  at  45°  to  the  optical  axis.  By  this  means  an 
accurately  framed  image  of  the  scene  is  reflected  into  the  view- 
finder  whilst  the  camera  is  actually  recording  the  scene. 

To  simplify  this  illustration  only  a  simple  link  claw,  indicated 
at  *N\  has  been  shown  and  is  merely  to  indicate  the  approximate 
position  of  this  mechanism.  The  central  sprocket  'F'  is  surrounded 
by  four  guide  rollers,  'H'  and  T,  which  are  usually  mounted  on 


56 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  18. — Conventional  basic  camera  lay-out. 


eccentric  bearings  to  permit  their  movement  away  from  the  sprocket 
when  the  film  is  being  threaded  in  the  camera. 

A  circular  housing  'M'  is  provided  for  two  purposes.  Firstly, 
to  house  the  rotating  shutter  and,  secondly,  to  form  a  rigid  mount- 
ing on  which  to  support  a  turret  of  various  lenses.  This  turret  may 
be  rotated  to  enable  any  lens  to  be  brought  into  position  in  front 
of  the  camera  aperture.  To  ensure  accurate  centering  the  turret  is 
normally  located  by  spring  loaded  dowel  pins,  housed  in  the  mount 
*M'  and,  in  some  cases,  may  be  locked  in  any  pre-selected  position. 

The  film  path  is  therefore  as  follows:  -  Leaving  the  supply  spool 
*D\  the  leading  edge  of  the  film  passes  over  roller  *G\  Rollers  'H' 
are  then  raised  to  permit  the  film  to  be  located  on  the  sprocket 
teeth  at  *F\  After  closing  these  rollers  the  film  is  led  through  the 
gate  'K',  care  being  taken  to  leave  an  adequate  loop  between  *K' 
and  'F\  and  then  again  engaged  with  the  sprocket,  this  time  under 
the  rollers  'J'.  From  this  point  the  film  passes  via  roller  'L'  to  the 
take-up  core  *E\ 

Modern  Equipment 

It  is  now  possible  to  consider  in  detail  a  number  of  more  modern 
refinements  which  are  at  present  in  use  on  cameras  throughout 
the  Industry.  The  first  of  these,  seen  in  Figure  19,  is  the  design  and 
operation  of  the  intermittent  claw  mechanism  used  in  some  cameras 
manufactured  by  the  Mitchell  Camera  Corporation.  The  cycle  of 
operation  of  this  mechanism  is  as  follows:  -  Whilst  the  shutter  is 
open,  and  the  film  is  being  exposed,  a  pair  of  pilot  pins,  one  on 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH  CAMERA 


57 


each  side  of  the  film,  are  engaged  with  the  perforations.  These 
pins  are  manufactured  to  very  close  tolerances  and  are  designed  to 
fit  the  perforations  with  great  accuracy.  Once  the  pins  have  entered 
the  perforations  they  do  not  move  again  until  the  shutter  has 
closed  and  the  exposure  is  complete.  At  this  stage  the  pilot  pins 
move  backwards  away  from  the  film,  and  at  the  same  instant 
the  claw  pins,  now  in  readiness  and  at  the  top  of  their  stroke, 
enter  two  other  perforations  at  a  distance  of  one  picture  length 
below  those  occupied  by  the  pilot  pins. 

The  claw  pins  also  engage  one  perforation  on  each  side  of  the 
film  and,  by  the  time  they  have  completed  their  downward  stroke 
and  are  about  to  move  out  of  engagement,  the  pilot  pins  have  been 
returned  towards  the  film  and  are  once  more  about  to  enter  the 
perforations.  At  the  same  instant 'the  shutter  is  about  to  open  and 
the  next  frame  will  be  exposed.  Whilst  the  exposure  is  in  progress 
the  claw  pins  will  be  completing  their  cycle  by  returning  towards 
the  top  of  their  stroke  in  readiness  to  move  the  film  forward  once 
more. 

It  is  very  important  to  note  that  the  claw  pins  are  arranged  to 
engage  with  the  perforations  which  are  exactly  one  picture  length 
in  advance  of  the  perforations  occupied  by  the  pilot  pins.  It  will 
be  remembered  that  film  is  perforated  by  a  machine  which  makes 


Jsnafe 


1    & 

JtaBBB 

ja 

ACTION    OF  THE  ACTION    OF  TKE 

pilot  p:m  cam  a**  cam 


Fig.  19. — Intermittent  mechanism  by  Mitchell  Camera  Corp. 


58  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

four  holes  along  its  length  at  one  blow  of  the  punch.  The  most 
likely  method  of  locating  film  in  the  camera,  and  one  which  might 
overcome  any  inaccuracies  in  the  perforating  operation  is,  there- 
fore, always  to  engage  those  perforations  which  are  made  by  the 
same  punch  leg.  Fortunately,  one  picture  occupies  a  length  equal 
to  four  perforations  and  it  is  for  this  reason  that  the  pilot  pins  are 
positioned  exactly  four  perforations  above  the  claw  pins  when  the 
latter  are  at  the  top  of  their  stroke.  Obviously,  this  arrangement 
satisfies  the  requirements  and,  of  course,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
know  which  of  the  four  punch  legs  made  the  particular  perforation 
used  to  engage  with  the  mechanism. 

The  mechanism  consists  of  two  main  sections,  the  upper  unit 
being  the  pilot  pin  assembly  and  the  lower  unit  the  claw  assembly. 
The  main  pilot  pin  shaft  'N'  carries  the  cam  follower,  or  yoke, 
'H'  and  the  pin  unit  'A'.  This  unit  is  a  sliding  fit  in  the  plain  bear- 
ings 'L'  which  are  attached  to  the  back  of  the  film  gate.  That  end 
of  the  shaft  nearest  to  the  sprocket  'S'  is  supported  in  a  second 
plain  bearing  'K\  Two  pilot  pins,  one  behind  the  other  in  the 
illustration,  are  used  to  engage  with  one  perforation  on  each  side 
of  the  film  and  since  each  pin  is  supported  in  a  plain  bearing, 
the  shaft  'N'  is  not  permitted  to  rotate  or  move  in  any  direction 
other  than  a  purely  horizontal  oscillation  from  left  to  right. 

This  horizontal  oscillation  is  obtained  by  employing  a  Lumiere 
type  cam  'C,  acting  upon  the  follower  'H\  A  true  Lumiere  cam 
is  one  so  designed  that  it  will  always  remain  in  contact  with  two 
followers,  such  as  'P'  and  'Q\  Figure  19,  providing  these  followers 
are  parallel  to  each  other  and  tangential  to  the  cam  face.  Such  a 
cam  is  rotated  about  'R'  and  will  cause  the  parallel  followers  'P' 
and  'Q'  first  to  move  upwards  and  then  to  remain  stationary 
whilst  the  cam  moves  through  60°,  afterwards  moving  downwards 
and  then  again  remaining  stationary  whilst  the  cam  moves 
through  a  further  60°.  The  cam  used  in  the  Mitchell  apparatus  is  a 
modification  of  the  Lumiere  design,  but  is  essentially  similar  in 
its  manner  of  operation.  The  action  of  the  cam  is  shown  in  detail 
in  Figure  19A  and  will  be  seen  to  impart  a  purely  horizontal 
motion  to  the  follower  'H\ 

The  cam  'C  is  attached  to  a  shaft  which  also  carries  a  spur  gear 
4E\  This  gear  is  in  mesh  with  a  similar  gear  'F\  attached  to  the 
shaft  carrying  cam  *D*  and  operating  the  claw  mechanism. 
Obviously  gears  'E'  and  'F'  are  of  equal  size.  The  claw  shaft  T" 
contains  a  square  aperture  'J'  in  which  cam  'D'  is  fitted.  One  end 
of  the  shaft  is  finished  circular  and  slides  in  a  plain  bearing  *M\ 
This  bearing  is  mounted  in  such  a  manner  that  it  may  rotate  about 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA  59 

a  fixed  centre.  The  other  end  of  the  claw  shaft  is  formed  to  accom- 
modate two  claw  pins  'B\  one  behind  the  other  in  the  illustration, 
to  engage  with  a  perforation  on  each  side  of  the  film.  Cam  'D' 
may  be  so  designed  that  it  will  always  touch  all  four  sides  of  a 
perfect  square  and,  if  this  square  be  very  highly  finished,  may 
rotate  within  such  a  housing. 

The  action  of  the  claw  is  shown  in  detail  in  Figure  19B.  Firstly, 
let  it  be  assumed  that  the  claw  is  extended  towards  the  film  and 
at  the  top  of  its  stroke,  the  cam  will  then  move  in  an  anti-clockwise 
direction  and,  since  the  square  follower  T  is  parallel  to  the  main 
body  of  the  claw,  will  cause  the  claw  to  move  in  a  purely  radial 
path,  swinging  downwards  about  centre  'M\  As  the  cam  continues 
to  rotate  it  will  cease  to  move  the  claw  downwards  and  will  tend 
to  move  it  towards  centre  *M\  Provision  is  made  for  this  motion 
since  the  claw  shaft  is  a  sliding  fit  within  bearing  *M'  and  may  slide 
and  also  rotate  at  this  point.  As  the  cam  proceeds,  the  backward 
motion  towards  centre  'M'  will  cease  and  will  be  replaced  by  an 
upward  movement — thus  returning  the  claw  tips  'B'  to  a  position 
in  readiness  to  move  outwards,  away  from  centre  'M',  and  thus 
to  complete  the  cycle  of  operations.  The  claw  path  is  therefore 
curved  and  as  seen  in  Figure  19C.  Because  of  this  the  lower  gate 
section  is  also  curved  to  a  corresponding  radius  and  the  pull-down 
therefore  becomes  effectively  straight. 

The  channel  formed  by  the  gate  sections  is  accurately  machined 
to  just  accommodate  two  thicknesses  of  film.  A  pressure  pad  'X' 
is  made  with  two  rollers  in  the  centre  of  the  aperture  and  two  steel 
shoes  over  the  perforations,  so  that  no  pressure  is  exerted  on  the 
picture  area  of  the  film.  The  entire  intermittent  mechanism,  plus 
the  front  section  of  the  gate,  may  be  swung  away  from  the  main 
gate  back-plate  by  releasing  a  quick-set  control  knob  shown  at 
'U\  The  gate  back-plate  has  been  shown  in  section  at  'V  and 
contains  two  horizontal  grooves,  accurately  cut  1/16-th  inch 
(1.58-mm)  in  front  of  the  film  plane,  into  which  special  masks  may 
be  inserted.  The  entire  mechanism  is  self-contained  and  may  be 
removed  from  the  camera  by  releasing  two  locking  clamps  shown 
at  'W*,  Figure  19. 

The  Bell  &  Howell  Shuttle  Mechanism 

Another  intermittent  mechanism  employed  in  an  equally  famous 
camera  is  the  Bell  &  Howell  shuttle  gate.  The  Bell  &  Howell 
Company,  realising  the  immense  importance  of  accurate  film 
location  with  well  designed  pilot  pin  registration,  decided  upon  a 
novel  design  in  which  the  pilot  pins  are  stationary  throughout  the 


60 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


A  B  C  D  E 

Fig.  20.— The  Bell  &  Howell  "Shuttle  gate"  intermittent. 

entire  cycle  of  operations.  The  gate  and  film  therein  are  oscillated 
bodily  in  a  horizontal  direction,  so  placing  the  film  alternately  in 
contact  with  the  fixed  pilot  pins  and  the  claw  mechanism. 

The  general  arrangement  of  the  mechanism  is  shown  in  Figure 
20.  The  main  aperture  plate  'F'  supports  two  pilot  pins,  numbered 
tV  and  '3',  one  above  and  one  below  the  exposing  aperture.  These 
pilot  pins  are  rigidly  fixed  to  the  main  plate  and  do  not  move. 
The  claw  pins,  of  which  there  are  two,  one  to  enter  the  perforations 
on  each  side  of  the  film  are  shown  at  '2'.  These  pins  oscillate  in  a 
purely  vertical  direction  as  indicated  by  the  arrows.  The  film  is 
guided  through  the  gate  formed  by  two  highly  polished  metal 
plates,  relieved  over  the  picture  area  to  avoid  the  possibility  of 
scratching  the  negative.  This  gate  oscillates  in  a  purely  horizontal 
direction. 

The  action  of  the  mechanism  is  therefore  as  follows:  -  The  film 
gate,  as  shown  at  'A',  Figure  20,  has  just  moved  to  the  left,  and  the 
film  is  located  upon  the  pilot  pins.  The  gate  then  continues  to 
move  to  the  left,  as  seen  at  'B',  until  the  back-plate  comes  into 
contact  with  the  shoulders  of  the  aperture  plate.  In  this  manner  the 
film  is  clamped  rigidly  in  the  gate  channel.  At  the  same  time  the 
claw  pins  commence  to  move  in  an  upward  direction.  It  is  during 
this  part  of  the  cycle  that  the  film  is  exposed.  The  claw  pins 
complete  their  upward  movement  and  the  gate  then  moves  to  the 
right  as  seen  at  'C\  so  transferring  the  film  from  the  pilot  pins  on  to 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH  CAMERA  61 

the  claw  pins.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  nose  of  the  pilot  pins 
projects  sufficiently  to  overlap  the  nose  of  the  claw  pins,  and, 
because  of  this,  the  film  is  always  under  control  by  one  or  both 
sets  of  pins.  By  this  arrangement  it  is  possible  to  dispense  with  any 
tensioning  in  the  gate  channel,  except  for  that  which  is  automatic- 
ally applied  when  the  gate  closes  completely  on  to  the  pilot  pins. 
The  claw  pins  now  move  in  a  downward  direction,  as  seen  at  *D\ 
and  so  advance  the  film  by  an  amount  equal  to  one  frame  or 
picture.  The  gate  then  moves  to  the  left,  as  seen  at  'E',  and  transfers 
the  film  from  the  claw  pins  back  to  the  pilot  pins.  The  cycle  is  then 
repeated. 

The  pilot  pins  are  separated  by  a  distance  equal  to  five  'pitches', 
as  the  distance  between  each  perforation  is  termed.  It  is  because 
of  this  control  over  a  considerable  length  of  film,  and  also  due  to 
the  accuracy  with  which  the  pilot  pins  fit  the  perforations,  that  it 
is  possible  to  dispense  with  the  conventional  edge  guiding  in  the 
film  gate.  The  film  is  therefore  freely  suspended  on  the  pilot  or 
claw  pins  except  for  that  part  of  the  cycle  during  which  the  gate 
is  closed  and  the  film  comes  under  pressure  from  the  aperture  plate. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  pilot  pins  are  of  different  sizes. 
Pin  No.  1,  is  known  as  the  full-fitting  pilot  and  is  manufactured 
accurately  to  fit  the  perforation  in  the  direction  parallel  to  the  film 
length.  Pin  No.  2,  is  known  as  the  tolerance  pilot  and  is  suitably 
reduced  in  thickness  to  accommodate  the  permissable  tolerances  on 
film  length  over  a  section  five  perforations  in  length.  At  the  moment 
when  the  claw  has  completed  its  downward  stroke,  and  is  register- 
ing a  perforation  with  the  full-fitting  pilot  pin  No.  1,  the  relation- 
ship between  the  pilot  pins,  claws  and  the  punches  in  the  perforating 
machine  will  be  as  follows:  -  The  punch  in  the  perforating  machine 
which  pierced  the  hole  engaged  by  the  claw  pin  will  also  have 
pierced  the  hole  into  which  the  pilot  pin  will  move.  It  will  be 
remembered  that  this  condition  is  required  to  ensure  maximum 
protection  from  the  effects  of  any  errors  which  may  have  occurred 
in  the  perforating  of  the  film. 

Variable  Aperture  Shutters 

The  normal  opening  in  a  rotary  shutter  blade  is  approximately 
170°,  or  just  under  half  the  complete  revolution.  Quite  obviously 
any  alteration  from  the  selected  opening  would  cause  a  change  in 
the  amount  of  exposure  given  to  the  film.  The  ability  to  control 
the  exposure  by  this  means  is  a  decided  advantage  for  two  main 
reasons.  Firstly,  from  our  knowledge  of  still  camera  practice,  it  is 
well  known  that  a  lens  working  at  high  aperture,  and  critically 


62  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

focussed  upon  some  object  in  the  foreground,  will  not  'resolve' 
clearly  the  objects  at  a  greater  distance.  This  condition  is  known  as 
lack  of 'depth  of  focus'  or  'depth  of  field'.  The  appearance  of  such  a 
picture,  on  the  cinema  screen,  is  of  a  sharply  focussed  object  of 
interest,  plus  a  background  which  is  often  so  badly  out  of  focus 
that  it  appears  as  a  series  of  black,  grey  and  white  circles  of  light 
festooned  across  the  scene.  Such  an  effect  is  not  very  objectionable 
in  black  and  white  pictures,  in  fact,  for  some  years  many  camera- 
men considered  this  to  improve  the  picture  by  throwing  the  centre 
of  interest  up  in  relief  and  by  'removing'  all  definition  from  the 
unwanted  background. 

Whether  this  effect  really  was  good  art  or  not  will  never  be  de- 
cided, but,  it  is  quite  certain  that  a  similar  result,  produced  on 
colour  film,  is  definitely  objectionable.  Unfortunately,  all  the 
colours  in  the  background  form  into  bright  circles  rather  like 
bunches  of  coloured  balloons.  The  coloured  circles  do  not  remain 
apart  from  each  other,  but  overlap  at  the  rim  and  produce  a  third 
colour  to  add  to  the  confusion.  Obviously  then,  the  only  alterna- 
tive to  such  an  effect  is  to  close  the  lens  diaphragm  and  so  increase 
the  depth  of  field  of  the  optical  system.  To  compensate  for  the 
reduction  in  exposure  it  may  be  possible  to  increase  the  shutter 
aperture,  Such  a  move  can  only  be  carried  to  a  certain  limit, 
beyond  which  the  remaining  opaque  section  in  the  shutter  would 
no  longer  provide  a  'closed'  period  sufficiently  long  to  permit  the 
film  to  be  moved  forward.  However,  if  the  normal  exposure  when 
the  shutter  opening  is  only  say  140°,  is  arranged  to  give  an  adequate 
negative  when  the  lens  aperture  is  high,  it  would  then  be  possible 
to  reduce  the  aperture,  thereby  increasing  the  depth  of  field,  and 
to  compensate  for  this  reduction  in  exposure  by  opening  the 
shutter  aperture  to  the  full  170°  period. 

The  well  known  'fade  out',  during  which  the  scene  becomes 
progressively  darker  until  it  is  eventually  opaque,  may  be  produced 
by  two  methods.  Firstly,  by  gradually  closing  the  lens  diaphragm 
but,  as  explained  previously,  such  a  move  would  cause  the  depth 
of  field  to  be  progressively  increased  during  the  operation.  An 
alternative  method,  which  does  not  alter  the  depth  of  field,  is  to 
provide  a  variable  aperture  shutter  which  may  be  gradually  closed 
until  all  the  light  is  prevented  from  reaching  the  film.  Taking  this 
last  suggestion  one  stage  further,  we  are  able  to  provide  a  means 
with  which  to  produce  the  'lap  dissolve'  transition.  A  lap  dissolve 
is  the  name  given  to  the  transition  in  which  the  first  scene  gradually 
becomes  less  dense,  until  finally  it  disappears  entirely,  whilst,  at 
the  same  time,  the  second  scene  is  gradually  'fading  in'.  A  more 


THE   CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA 


63 


explicit  description  of  the  process  would  therefore  be  4the  fade  out 
of  one  scene  overlapped  with  the  fade  in  of  a  second  scene*. 

The  lap  dissolve  may  be  produced  by  gradually  closing  the 
variable  aperture  shutter  at  the  end  of  the  first  scene,  stopping 
the  camera  when  the  shutter  is  completely  closed,  rewinding  that 
amount  of  film  required  to  complete  the  fade-out  and  then,  after 
training  the  camera  on  to  the  second  scene  into  which  it  is  required 
to  dissolve,  starting  the  camera  and  gradually  opening  the  shutter 
blades. 

Although  both  the  'fade-out'  and  the  'lap-dissolve'  are  now 
usually  performed  on  the  optical  printing  machine,  the  foregoing 
brief  outline  of  some  of  the  possibilities  to  which  the  dissolving 
shutter  may  be  put  will  serve  to  draw  attention  to  its  general 
application  in  the  studio  camera.  Many  designs  have  been  employed 
to  obtain  the  movement  of  one  blade  relative  to  another,  and  whilst 
both  are  rotating  at  high  speed,  but  one  example,  illustrated  in 
Figure  21,  will  be  sufficient  for  the  purpose  of  this  work.  Shaft  'J' 
is  positively  geared  to  the  camera  mechanism  and  makes  one  com- 
plete revolution  each  time  the  film  is  moved  forward  one  frame, 
that  is,  it  is  geared  'one-to-one'  with  the  intermittent  shaft.  The 
main  shutter  blade  is  rigidly  mounted  on  this  shaft,  as  shown  at 
'S',  together  with  the  gear  wheel  'A'.  Freely  mounted  on  shaft  'J' 
is  a  second  gear  'B\  exactly  equal  in  size  and  pitch  to  the  first 
gear  'A',  and  attached  to  this  wheel  is  the  auxiliary  shutter  blade 


PQS'HWg 


-POSITION  I 

Fig.  21.— Variable  aperture  shutter  mechanism. 


64  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

T  which  is  to  be  rotated  with  respect  to  the  main  shutter  *S\ 
Both  gear  'B'  and  shutter  blade  "T  are  free  to  rotate  with  respect 
to  shaft  'J'  and  only  use  this  shaft  as  a  supporting  bearing. 

Referring  now  to  the  gear  train  seen  in  'position  1',  Figure 
21,  gear  'A'  is  again  seen  at  the  top  of  the  diagram.  Gear  'B',  is 
of  course,  directly  behind  gear  'A'  and,  since  both  gears  are  equal 
in  size,  will  not  be  seen  in  the  figure.  The  shafts  supporting  gear 
4  A'  and  gear  'C  rotate  about  fixed  centres.  Gear  'A'  meshes  with 
gear  'C  ;  gear  'C  meshes  with  gear  'D';  gear  'D'  meshes  with  gear 
'E'  and,  finally,  gear  'E'  meshes  with  gear  'B'.  It  is  important  to 
realise  that  gear  'E'  does  not  mesh  with  gear  'A'.  Gears  'D'  and 
4E'  are  mounted  on  bearings  housed  in  the  link  system  *F\  'G'  and 
'H\  These  links,  together  with  line  'L-M',  which  passes  through 
the  centre  of  gears  'A'  and  'C,  form  a  parallelogram  which  may 
be  adjusted  by  setting  the  control  lever  'P'.  The  mechanism 
is  shown  again  at  'position  2'  after  lever  'P'  has  been  raised  to  the 
upper  position. 

To  fully  understand  the  operation  of  this  mechanism  let  it  be 
assumed  that  gear  wheel  'A'  is  stationary.  Since  gear  'C  is  mounted 
on  a  fixed  centre,  and  is  in  mesh  with  'A',  it  also  must  remain 
stationary.  If  lever  'P'  is  then  moved  from  position  1  to  position 
2,  gear  4D'  will  be  forced  to  rotate  about  gear  'C\  This  rotation 
will  then  be  transmitted  to  gear  'E'  and  also,  through  'E\  to  gear 
'B\  Thus,  moving  lever  'P'  causes  gear  'B'  to  rotate  with  respect  to 
gear  'A'.  Obviously  this  operation  may  be  carried  out  with  equal 
success  when  the  camera  is  running. 

Shutter  'Cut- Off'  Efficiency 

Before  leaving  the  shutter  mechanism  it  is  worth  noting  the  effect 
shutter  size  has  upon  its  efficiency.  By  efficiency  is  meant  the 
time  taken  to  completely  cover  the  camera  aperture.  Obviously, 
the  change-over  period,  when  the  aperture  is  neither  completely 
open  or  thoroughly  closed,  must  be  considered  as  lost  time.  A 
shutter  which  completes  this  change-over  quickly  is  said  to  have  a 
high  efficiency. 

This  variable  is  illustrated  in  Figure  22.  Shutters  'A'  and  'B' 
are  both  of  equal  size  but,  in  the  first  case,  the  centre  of  shutter 
'A'  has  been  placed  at  the  maximum  possible  distance  from  the 
exposing  aperture.  The  shutter  will  therefore  only  need  to  rotate 
through  angle  'C  in  order  to  completely  cover  the  aperture.  In 
the  second  case,  the  centre  of  shutter  'B'  has  been  placed  close  to 
the  exposing  aperture  and,  consequently,  the  shutter  blade  must 
rotate  through  the  much  greater  angle  shown  at  'D'  in  order  to 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA 


65 


:r  a 


ANGLE   D 


Fig.  22.— Shutter  "cut-off"  efficiency. 


completely  cover  the  aperture.  The  most  efficient  shutter  will 
therefore  be  one  of  the  largest  possible  diameter,  with  its  centre 
placed  at  the  maximum  permissible  distance  from  the  aperture. 

The  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  'Follow  Focus"  Device 
In  the  early  days  of  studio  work  it  was  usual  for  the  camera  crew 
to  take  up  a  set  position  for  each  shot,  and  also  for  the  actors  to 
be  rehearsed  to  control  their  movements  to  take  place  within  the 
field  of  view  of  the  camera.  Under  these  conditions  it  was  possible 
to  measure  the  distance  between  the  camera  and  the  actors,  set 
the  focusing  ring  on  the  lens  accordingly,  and  expect  to  get  a 
reasonably  sharp  negative. 

Modern  studio  technique  requires  the  maximum  amount  of 
freedom  in  movement,  both  for  the  actors  and  also  for  the  camera. 
An  outstanding  example  of  this  was  given  in  the  Eagle-Lion 
production  'A  Place  of  One's  Own'.  In  this  picture  Margaret 

FjELD  COVERED  BY  CAMERA 


CAMERA    LENS 
VIEWFINDER  LENS 


CAMERA  LENS 
VIEWFINDER    LENS 


Fig.  23.— Camera- Viewfinder  parallax. 


66  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Lockwood  is  seen  coming  from  a  bedroom,  out  into  a  corridor, 
turning  left  to  walk  across  to  the  head  of  a  staircase  (this  section 
was  shot  with  a  combination  of  'panning'  and  'tracking'  move- 
ments); continuing  in  the  same  shot,  that  is,  without  a  new  camera 
set-up,  Miss  Lockwood  is  followed  down  the  staircase,  across  a 
large  Reception  Hall  and  into  an  adjoining  room.  The  entire 
action  outlined  above  was  completed  in  one  'take'  and  clearly 
illustrates  the  advanced  technique  now  possible. 

The  success  of  this  type  of  work  depends  largely  upon  two 
factors.  Firstly,  the  viewfinder  attached  to  the  camera  must  cover 
precisely  the  same  field  as  that  which  is  covered  by  the  objective 
lens.  Secondly,  it  must  be  possible  to  accurately  control  the  focusing 
of  the  lens  as  the  camera  and  actor  go  through  the  scene.  The 
ability  to  cover  a  similar  field  both  with  the  viewfinder  and  the 
objective  lens  is  known  as  'parallax  correction',  and  is  illustrated 
in  Figure  23.  In  diagram  'A'  the  optical  axis  of  the  viewfinder 
is  parallel  to  that  of  the  camera  objective.  Under  these  conditions 
the  field  covered  by  the  viewfinder  will  be  'off-set'  with  respect  to  a 
similar  field  covered  by  the  objective.  In  diagram  'B'  this  objection 
has  been  overcome  by  arranging  the  optical  axis  of  the  viewfinder 
to  be  at  an  angle  to  that  of  the  objective,  and  also  to  meet  it  at  point 
'S'  in  the  plane  of  focus.  Under  these  conditions  both  lenses  will 
cover  the  same  area  when  sighted  to  this  particular  distance. 

It  is  therefore  necessary  to  mount  the  viewfinder  in  such  a  fashion 
that  it  may  be  adjusted  for  all  distances  to  enable  the  optical  axes 
of  both  the  objective  and  viewfinder  lenses  to  intersect  at  the  plane 
to  which  the  camera  is  focused. 

If  shots  are  to  be  taken  in  which  the  actor  moves  towards  or 
away  from  the  camera,  and  it  is  required  to  keep  him  in  critical 
focus,  some  method  must  be  provided  to  view  the  scene  by  a 
focusing  viewfinder  calibrated  to  match  the  focusing  of  the 
objective  lens.  Obviously,  this  is  of  little  value  unless  the  mechanism 
which  focuses  the  viewfinder  is  mechanically  coupled  to  the 
focusing  ring  on  the  objective  lens.  The  finder  designed  by  the 
Metro- Goldwyn-Mayer  camera  department  fulfils  these  require- 
ments and  is  seen  schematically  in  Figure  24.  This  drawing  is  not 
intended  to  represent  the  mechanism  employed  in  the  camera, 
but  merely  to  help  in  explaining  the  principle  thereof.  An  exception- 
ally accurate  train  of  gears  is  used  to  transmit  drive  from  the  opera- 
ting handle  'C  back  to  gear  'A',  mounted  on  the  camera  objective 
lens  and  operating  the  focusing  ring.  A  cam  mounted  in  the  plane 
shown  at  'D'  will,  on  rotation,  cause  the  viewfinder  lens  to  slide 
within  its  housing  and,  if  the  cam  action  is  accurately  calculated. 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH  CAMERA 


67 


% 


OBJECTIVE 
LENS 

1 

1 

t— J 

I 

1 

' 

1 

LENS    ,—Skess^U, 

■  ■ 

'V 


Fig.  24. — Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  "follow-focus"  device. 


any  object  seen  to  be  in  critical  focus  through  the  viewfinder  will 
also  be  focused  on  the  film.  A  second  cam,  operating  as  suggested 
at  *E\  will  cause  the  viewfinder  mount  to  rotate  about  the  optical 
centre  indicated  at  'B\  This  action  may  also  be  calibrated  to 
rotate  the  viewfinder  in  step  with  the  change  in  focusing,  thereby 
keeping  the  image  seen  in  the  viewfinder  always  equal  to  the 
field  covered  by  the  objective  lens.  As  mentioned  previously, 
mirror  shutters  set  at  45°  to  the  optical  axis  overcome  completely 
this  problem  and  are  now  incorporated  in  many  cameras. 

Modern  Methods  of  Scene  Identification 

In  modern  film  production  it  is  quite  common  to  require  four  or 
more  separate  mechanisms  to  be  operated  in  synchronism  through- 
out the  complete  filming  of  one  scene.  Such  an  instance  would  be 
when  a  background  projection  shot  is  being  made.  Background 
projection  is  the  name  given  to  a  system  in  which  a  large  trans- 


Fig.  25. — Set  up  for  background  projection  shots. 


68  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

lucent  screen  is  erected  behind  the  actors,  and  onto  which  the 
moving  picture  of  some  inaccessible  background  is  projected  by  a 
machine  at  the  rear.  A  camera,  mounted  in  front  of  the  screen,  as 
seen  in  Figure  25,  will  then  record  a  complete  picture  consisting 
of  the  natural  foreground  action,  plus  the  background  as  seen 
on  the  translucent  screen. 

For  such  an  arrangement  to  succeed  it  is  essential  that  both 
camera  and  projector  mechanisms  should  be  absolutely  synchro- 
nised throughout  the  shot.  Several  systems  are  now  in  use  which 
make  this  possible,  and  it  is  therefore  also  usual  to  run  the  sound 
recording  camera  in  synchronism  and  from  the  same  system. 
One  method  used  to  obtain  this  result  is  known  as  the  'selsyn'  A.C. 
Interlock  System  in  which  the  primary  and  secondary  winding  of 
each  motor  used  to  drive  the  various  instruments  is  connected  in 
multiple  with  the  respective  windings  of  all  the  other  motors  of 
the  system  -  the  primaries  being  excited  by  alternating  current. 
The  secondaries  of  all  motors  are  thereby  electrically  interlocked, 
and  mechanically  driving  one  motor  of  the  system,  called  the 
distributor,  will  cause  all  the  others  to  rotate  at  the  same  speed. 

The  earliest  method  used  to  obtain  synchronising  marks  on  both 
picture  and  sound  negatives  was  by  employing  a  'clapper  boy',  as 
explained  in  Chapter  1.  This  was  soon  succeeded  by  the  following 
method.  The  necessary  identification  to  the  scene  was  mounted  on 
a  board,  and  held  in  front  of  the  camera  as  before,  but  this  was 
done  some  time  before  the  scene  was  photographed  and  with  the 
camera  running  'wild',  that  is,  not  electrically  interlocked  with  any 
other  apparatus.  After  sufficient  footage  had  been  exposed  on  the 
identification  title  the  camera  was  stopped.  When  all  was  ready  to 
take  the  scene  the  camera  was  interlocked  with  the  sound  recorder 
so  that,  on  starting  up,  both  camera  and  recorder  would  rotate  in 
synchronism.  A  further  refinement,  located  within  the  sound 
recorder,  caused  a  short  flash  exposure  to  be  automatically  made 
as  the  mechanism  commenced  to  rotate.  It  was  therefore  only 
necessary  to  line  up  the  last  frame  showing  the  scene  identification 
board,  on  the  picture  negative,  with  the  last  clear  section  before 
the  fogged  area  on  the  sound  negative,  to  obtain  perfect  synchro- 
nism. It  is  important  to  realise  that  both  the  camera  and  recorder 
start  in  synchronism  from  rest  and  gradually  gather  speed  while 
still  maintaining  perfect  synchronism. 

Whilst  this  system  had  the  advantage  of  completing  all  the 
identification  work  long  before  the  actors  were  keyed  up  to 
perform,  it  still  suffered  from  three  main  disadvantages.  Firstly, 
it  used  a  considerable  amount  of  film  which  was  useless  once  the 


THE  CINEMATOGRAPH   CAMERA 


69 


identification  of  the  succeeding  shot  had  been  established.  Secondly, 
considerable  time  was  lost  when  re-takes  were  made  immediately 
after  an  unsuccessful  'take'  and,  thirdly,  extra  footage  was  often 
lost  in  ensuring  that  the  assistant,  carrying  the  identification 
board,  had  walked  out  of  the  field  of  view  of  the  camera. 

With  these  objections  in  mind,  the  Camera  Department  of 
Paramount  Picture  Corporation  designed  an  improved  'scene- 
slating  attachment',  capable  of  use  with  a  wide  variety  of  cameras 
and  equipments.  Scene  slating  is  the  name  given  to  the  process  of 
identifying  individual  shots  or  'takes'.  The  general  arrangement 
of  this  device  is  seen  in  Figure  26.  A  small  housing  'B'  is  attached 
to  the  main  camera  body,  or  to  the  mounting  on  which  the  camera 
is  supported,  by  a  mechanism  engaging  with  bearing  'A'.  Con- 
tained within  housing  'F'  is  a  series  of  rotatable  rings,  each  carrying 
numbers  and  letters  formed  on  their  periphery  in  a  manner 
similar  to  that  found  in  a  footage  counter  or  speed  indicator. 
These  numbers  are  suitably  arranged,  together  with  any  other 
identification,  at  the  face  'E',  known  as  the  'slate'.  This  face  is 
illuminated  by  small  lamps  shown  at  'D\  By  the  arrangement  of 
lenses  and  mirrors  shown  in  the  illustration,  the  normal  camera 
lens  will  photograph  the  slate  when  the  housing  is  supported  in 
front  of  the  camera  as  shown. 

When  not  in  use  this  device  is  swung  downwards,  out  of 
the  camera  field  of  view,  by  pivoting  it  about  point  'A'.  Arrange- 
ments are  also  made  to  illuminate  the  slate  only  when  it  is  brought 


Fig.  26. — Scene  identification  unit  by  Paramount  Corp. 


70  THE   PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

upwards  to  the  'taking'  position.  The  camera  and  sound  recorder 
may  now  be  permanently  interlocked  to  ensure  synchronism  and 
scene  identification  takes  place  as  follows:  -  The  numbering  device 
and  other  identification  at  'E'  is  prepared  well  in  advance  so  that, 
as  soon  as  the  scene  is  to  be  shot,  the  camera  may  be  started.  The 
camera  and  recorder  will,  of  course,  both  start  together  and  in 
synchronism.  Immediately  the  camera  is  started  the  'slating  device' 
is  swung  up  into  position  in  front  of  the  camera  lens  -  this  action 
causes  the  slate  'E'  to  be  automatically  illuminated  -  and,  after  a 
very  short  interval,  the  apparatus  is  again  lowered  out  of  the  field 
of  view  and  the  photography  of  the  scene  then  proceeds  without 
interruption. 

Obviously  this  method  has  many  points  in  its  favour,  not  the 
least  being  to  protect  the  actors  from  the  nerve  racking  experience 
of  a  lad  continually  popping  up  with  his  little  board,  just  as  they 
are  all  'set'  to  shoot  the  scene  which  will  make  them  famous ! 


CHAPTER  3 

PROCESSING    EQUIPMENT 


All  modern  studio  processing  is  carried  out  by  Trade  Labora- 
tories specially  equipped  to  handle  very  large  quantities  of 
film  in  the  shortest  possible  time.  Because  of  this,  and,  as  we 
shall  see  later,  in  order  to  maintain  consistently  high  quality 
results,  machines  are  used  in  which  the  film  is  processed  con- 
tinuously by  moving  through  tanks  containing  the  various 
solutions  and  then,  finally,  through  the  drying  cupboards.  Before 
the  output  from  the  studios  became  large  enough  to  justify  this 
type  of  equipment,  film  was  processed  in  unit  lengths,  that  is,  a 
single  roll  of  film  was  taken  from  the  camera  and  loaded  onto  a 
supporting  frame  upon  which  it  remained  throughout  the  entire 
process,  only  being  removed  to  a  drum  for  the  final  drying  opera- 
tion. During  the  early  days  the  length  of  any  film  rarely  exceeded 
400-ft.  (121*9  metres)  but,  even  so,  such  a  length  required  quite  a 
large  holder  on  which  it  could  be  mounted  with  sufficient  separation 
between  the  convolutions  to  permit  reasonable  processing  results. 
Although  the  early  methods  have  now  been  discontinued  in  the 
Trade  Laboratories,  they  are  still  used  to  some  extent  and  have 
been  employed  extensively  during  the  War  years  by  Service 
departments  engaged  in  producing  instructional  and  documentary 
films.  The  main  reasons  for  using  'unit'  type  processing,  as  against 
the  continuous  methods,  are  that  short  lengths  of  film  may  be 
developed  in  relatively  simple  apparatus  which  is  compact,  easily 
transported  and  easy  to  store. 

Due  to  the  similarity  between  some  early  equipment  and 
modern  short  length,  or  'unit'  processing  apparatus,  it  will  not  be 
necessary  to  refer  to  the  history  of  film  processing  in  order  to 
introduce  the  more  complicated  continous  machines.  This  will  be 
done  by  briefly  surveying  the  modern  portable  equipment,  always 
remembering  that  it  was  from  earlier  apparatus  very  similar  to 
this  that  the  trade  laboratory  machinery  was  developed. 

71 


72 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  27. — Rack-and-pin  processing  unit. 

One  of  the  most  simple  methods  of  processing  short  lengths 
of  motion  picture  film  is  shown  in  Figure  27.  Short  vertical  pillars 
are  arranged  on  a  horizontal  board  so  that  the  film  may  be  wound 
on  edge  in  a  roughly  spiral  fashion.  The  loaded  former  is  placed 
first  in  the  developing  bath  which  must,  of  course,  be  a  shallow 
tray  large  enough  to  permit  the  operator  to  handle  the  former 
with  ease,  then  into  the  fixing  bath  and,  finally,  into  a  tray  through 
which  a  constant  flow  of  water  is  passing.  To  dry  the  film  after 
processing  it  may  be  placed  in  a  current  of  warm  dust  free  air 
whilst  still  mounted  on  the  former,  or  may  be  rewound  onto  a 
drum  in  spiral  fashion,  as  shown  in  Figure  28.  This  simple  arrange- 
ment can  only  be  used  when  very  short  lengths  of  film  are  to  be 
processed,  usually  not  longer  that  50-ft  (15-24  metres),  and,  even 
under  these  conditions,  loading  such  a  rack  is  quite  a  tedious 
business.  To  overcome  this  a  rack  has  recently  been  designed  in 
which  the  vertical  pillars  are  mounted  on  hinges  so  that  all  but 
the  central  four  pillars  may  be  folded  away  from  the  film  loading 
path  and  raised  individually  as  each  is  required.  The  hinges  are 
arranged  to  fold  outwards  so  that  loading  the  film  will  always 
tend  to  hold  the  pillars  upright. 

Since  film  base  dimensions  vary  with  the  prevailing  humidity, 
it  is  necessary  to  provide  means  whereby  the  overal  length  of  the 


Fig.  28. — Film  drying  drum. 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  73 

film  may  increase,  as  it  will  on  immersion  in  the  processing 
solutions,  and  then  decrease  once  more  on  drying.  The  shrinkage 
after  drying  is  always  sufficient  to  leave  the  final  processed  film 
shorter  than  it  was  on  leaving  the  camera  and  before  processing 
commenced.  One  simple  method  used  to  accommodate  dimen- 
sional changes  when  using  the  rack  type  of  processing  unit  is  to 
anchor  that  end  of  the  film  which  is  at  the  centre  of  the  rack,  but 
to  attach  the  outer  convolution  to  the  last  pillar  in  use  by  means 
of  an  elastic  band.  This  band  is  usually  threaded  through  a  hole 
punched  in  the  film  and  then  passed  over  the  pillar.  This  provision 
is  not  wholly  successful  since  it  requires  that  each  convolution 
of  film  shall  move  relative  to  its  neighbours  and  by  proportional 
amounts  -  dependent  upon  the  length  involved  in  each  turn. 
Whilst  this  movement  may  occur  when  the  film  is  lengthening, 
that  is,  when  it  is  in  the  solutions,  it  does  not  take  place  so  well 
during  the  drying  operation.  Uneven  shrinkage  whilst  drying 
causes  severe  strain  to  be  set  up  in  those  sections  of  film  which 
touch  the  supporting  pillars  of  the  rack  assembly  and  may  also 
cause  noticeable  drying  marks. 

The  foregoing  criticism  is  equally  true  when  the  film  is  trans- 
ferred to  a  drum  for  the  final  drying  operation.  It  is  normal 
practice  to  spring-load  the  horizontal  bars  which  form  the  drum 
to  enable  them  to  'give'  slightly  towards  the  central  supporting 
shaft.  Even  when  this  provision  is  made,  and  the  film  ends  are 
attached  to  the  drum  by  elastic  loops,  it  is  necessary  to  load  the 
drum  with  great  care  and  preferably  to  permit  each  turn  in  the 
spiral  to  remain  noticeably  slack  on  the  drum  if  undue  strain  is 
to  be  avoided. 

Many  people  are  now  familiar  with  the  'apron'  type  of  tank, 
widely  used  to  process  still  camera  films  and,  particularly,  those 
used  in  35-mm  'Leica'  and  similar  cameras.  This  process  employs 
an  ebonite  central  bobbin,  usually  split  into  two  interlocking 
halves,  fitted  with  perforated  side  flanges  through  which  the 
processing  solution  may  flow.  Attached  to  the  central  bobbin  is  a 
length  of  relatively  thick  transparent  celluloid  bearing  a  series  of 
raised  hemispheres,  moulded  along  each  edge.  The  hemispheres 
are  moulded  in  alternate  directions,  as  seen  in  Figure  29,  and  serve 
to  support  the  film  between  the  convolutions  of  the  apron  whilst 
only  permitting  contact  at  the  extreme  edges  and  over  very  small 
areas.  Tanks  have  been  designed  which  permit  a  suitable  key  to 
be  connected  with  the  supporting  bobbin  and  thereby  permit  the 
whole  assembly  to  be  rotated  within  the  tank  and  during  the 
processing  operation.   This   undoubtedly   helps   to   reduce  the 


74 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

PLAN  VIEW 


SECTONAL 
VIEW 


APRON 

Fig.  29. — Processing  apron. 

possibility  of  uneven  processing  and  also  overcomes  the  difficulties 
of  film  shrinkage  although,  to  prevent  uneven  drying,  which  would 
give  rise  to  changes  in  density,  films  processed  in  this  manner  must 
be  ultimately  wound  on  drums  for  the  final  drying  operation  or, 
if  the  length  is  short,  hung  in  a  warm  atmosphere  free  from  dust. 

The  'apron'  method  has  been  mentioned  because,  quite  recently, 
the  'Davidge'  spiral  apron  has  been  produced  in  America  and, 
working  on  the  same  principle,  is  intended  for  processing  1,000-ft 
(304-78-metres)  of  film  in  one  unit.  This  is  accomplished  on  a 
spool  approximately  4-ft  (1  -22-metres)  in  diameter,  designed  with 
extensions,  in  the  shape  of  fins,  to  each  of  the  twenty  spokes  which 
form  the  sides  and  serve  to  agitate  the  processing  solutions.  These 
spools  are  mounted  vertically  in  narrow  tanks  and  the  direction  of 
rotation  is  continually  reversed  throughout  the  process.  The  fins 
are  set  at  various  angles  to  the  spokes  and  thereby  cause  the 
solutions  to  be  thoroughly  agitated  and  the  film  to  be  evenly 
processed. 

Before  leaving  the  drum  or  spool  types  of  portable  processing 
equipment  one  further  system  is  worth  noting.  A  reel  and  tray 
processing  machine  has  recently  been  designed  by  the  Municipal 
Light  &  Power  System  of  Seattle,  Washington,  U.S.A.  This 
apparatus  is  seen  in  Figure  30  to  consist  of  a  circular  drum  *A\ 
approximately  30-inches  (76-19-cms)  in  diameter  and  54-inches 
(137-3-cms)  in  width,  and  five  semi-circular  stainless  steel  trays 


PROCESSING   EQUIPMENT  75 

*B'  in  which  the  various  processing  solutions  are  maintained  at  a 
constant  temperature  by  a  water  jacketing  system.  A  counter- 
shaft, running  the  entire  length  of  the  machine  provides,  via  gear 
boxes,  a  driving  clutch  at  the  pedestal  mounting  over  each  solution 
tray.  A  lever  mechanism  'C,  which  is  permanently  attached  to  the 
film  drum,  is  used  to  engage  with  transfer  sockets  *D'  to  enable  the 
drum  to  be  moved  from  one  tray  to  the  next.  The  gearing  which 
rotates  the  drum  whilst  in  position  at  each  stage  of  the  process  is 
arranged  to  automatically  disengage  as  the  drum  is  lifted  from 
one  tray  to  the  next.  The  transfer  from  tray  to  tray  is  carried  out 
manually  by  the  rocking  motion  of  lever  'C  against  the  sockets  'D\ 

This  machine  is  designed  to  accommodate  lengths  of  film  up 
to  200-ft  (60  •  96-metres)  and  is  claimed  to  process  such  lengths 
very  satisfactorily.  Much  experimental  work  was  carried  out  to 
eliminate  fogging,  which  was  traced  to  the  use  of  an  open  or  hollow 
drum  composed  of  rods  arranged  horizontally  between  the  end 
flanges.  Trouble  was  also  experienced  in  the  early  stages  of  develop- 
ment with  slack  loops  of  film  caused  by  swelling  taking  place 
during  the  processing  operations.  Although  elastic  bands  accom- 
modate the  expansion  at  the  ends  of  the  film  spiral,  they  do  not 
pull  sufficiently  to  remove  the  slackness  over  the  centre  turns  of 
the  spiral.  To  overcome  this  trouble  a  smooth  drum  was  made  with 
a  spiral  film  guide  channel  formed  on  the  surface  and  into  which 
the  film  was  threaded;  specially  made  soft-bristle  brushes  were 
then  held  in  contact  with  the  film  during  the  processing  and  served 
to  urge  the  film  to  slide  along  the  smooth  drum  surface  and  so 
permit  the  elastic  tension  at  each  end  of  the  spiral  to  take  up  the 
slackness  at  the  centre  portions.  After  further  experiments  it  was 
found  that,  by  increasing  the  speed  at  which  the  drum  rotated  to 
250-ft  (76  •  2-metres)  per  minute,  the  centrifugal  force  created  was 
sufficient  to  urge  the  film  to  slide  in  the  guiding  spiral  without  the 
aid  of  the  brushes.  This  increased  speed  also  caused  sufficient 
developing  solution  to  be  carried  round  the  film  so  that,  in  effect, 
it  was  always  covered  by  a  layer  of  solution  and,  in  consequence, 
more  even  processing  resulted. 

The  second  main  type  of  portable  processing  apparatus  may 
be  termed  the  'rack  and  tank'  method,  the  most  simple  form  of 
which  is  seen  in  Figure  31.  A  simple  rectangular  frame,  usually 
made  of  hard  wood,  carries  a  series  of  film  locating  pins  at  each 
end.  These  pins  are  so  arranged  that  the  film  may  be  loaded  in 
the  form  of  a  spiral  around  the  rack.  Central  rods,  shown  at  'A', 
are  often  provided  to  permit  the  rack  to  be  mounted  on  bearings 
and  rotated  during  the  loading  operation.  The  loaded  rack  is  then 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


p.. i  .,v  ft——  P   _ .   h  I 


Fig.  30.— Reel-and-tray  processing  unit. 


1 S  4 m       y       y 


T— T  l      H      ft      tf      I!      T 

Fig.  31.— Simple  film  rack. 


= 


*  *   A   -  -  -  *» 


aJ^ju^a^ju-Uo, 


5"        K 


X 


T~r~r 


__ 


i   i    t    t    I   »   i 

® 


© 


Fig.  32.— Multiple  film  rack. 


fl 

i  i  i  O  i  • 

u 

i 

i 

. 

© 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  77 

placed  vertically  in  narrow  processing  tanks  and,  to  obtain  even 
development,  the  solution  is  usually  automatically  circulated  by  a 
small  rotary  pump,  arranged  to  draw  its  supply  from  the  top  of 
the  tank  and  then  to  force  the  solution  back  again  at  the  bottom. 
Solutions  are  usually  forced  round  the  system  at  such  a  speed 
that  the  entire  volume  of  liquid  is  passed  through  the  pump  once 
every  fifteen  minutes.  The  greatest  disadvantage  of  this  type  of 
rack  is  the  considerable  size  necessary  to  accommodate  a  relatively 
short  length  of  film. 

This  may  be  overcome  by  the  design  seen  in  Figure  32.  This 
system  is  simply  three  racks  mounted  within  each  other  and  so 
arranged  that  each  may  be  rotated  independently  about  a  common 
central  axle  'P\  The  method  employed  to  load  this  type  of  rack 
is  as  follows:  -  Having  mounted  the  unit  on  supporting  bearings 
at  position  T',  racks  'B'  and  'C  are  locked  in  the  vertical  position 
so  that  only  rack  'A'  may  rotate.  The  leading  edge  of  the  film  is 
then  attached  to  rack  'A'  at  position  'D'  and,  whilst  the  rack  is 
slowly  rotated,  is  wound  in  spiral  fashion  between  the  locating 
pins  at  each  end  and  until  it  reaches  position  'E\  The  film  is  then 
taken  up  to  rack  'B'  and  to  position  *F\  Rack  'B'  is  then  locked 
solidly  with  rack  'A'  and  both  are  rotated  together  and  within 
stationary  rack  'C\  In  this  manner  the  film  is  wound  in  spiral 
form  on  rack  'B'  and  it  should  be  noticed  from  the  side  elevation, 
'L\  Figure  32,  that,  whereas  rack  'A'  is  only  a  single  frame, 
racks  4B'  and  'C  must  be  rectangular  in  section  to  enable  each 
spiral  of  film  to  be  wound  'clear'  from  those  on  the  smaller  frames. 
On  reaching  position  'G'  the  film  is  taken  up  to  position  *H'  on 
rack  'C  and  all  three  racks  are  then  locked  together  and  rotated 
about  the  central  bearings.  On  reaching  position  'J'  the  film  is 
clamped  to  the  framework  and  the  loading  is  complete.  The  film 
path  is  shown  in  outline  at  'M',  Figure  32. 

This  method  enables  considerable  lengths  of  film  to  be  enclosed 
in  a  relatively  small  framework  but,  unfortunately,  it  becomes 
very  difficult  to  avoid  slack  loops  forming,  due  to  swelling  during 
the  processing  operations.  It  is  also  a  very  awkward  piece  of 
apparatus  to  handle  and  one  which  does  not  provide  an  easy  path 
through  which  the  solutions  may  circulate. 

Continuous  Processing  Machines 

The  foregoing  brief  description  of  the  mechanical  arrangement  of 
several  portable  and  small  laboratory  processing  units  illustrates 
two  important  points.  Firstly,  great  precautions  are  necessary 
when  using  such  equipment  if  uneven  development,  blemishes 


78 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


PROCESSING   EQUIPMENT  79 

and  roll-to-roll  variations  are  to  be  avoided.  Secondly,  it  is  quite 
impossible  to  use  such  equipment  for  the  mass  production  of 
films  in  the  quantities  handled  by  modern  laboratories. 

Because  of  this  it  is  now  universal  practice  to  employ  continuous 
processing  machines  whenever  possible  and  when  the  film  output 
justifies  the  considerable  installation  expenses.  These  machines 
are  designed  to  process  and  dry  35-mm  film  of  any  length  continu- 
ously, each  roll  being  joined  to  its  predecessor  while  the  machine 
is  running.  All  continuous  processing  machines  may  be  divided 
into  four  main  sections  as  follows:  -(a)  The  feed  spools,  splicing 
and  feed  elevators,  (b)  The  processing  tanks,  together  with  the 
film  transport  racks,  (c)  the  film  squeegee,  drying  cabinets  and 
heating  system  and,  (d)  The  film  take-up  elevator,  the  take-up 
mechanism  and  the  take-up  roll.  Taken  in  this  order  it  is  possible  to 
describe  the  machine  whilst  tracing  the  path  of  the  film  through 
the  process. 

The  details  of  any  one  machine  may  differ  considerably  from 
those  of  another.  The  following  description  is  not  intended  to  be 
of  any  well-known  commercial  machine,  but  merely  to  illustrate 
general  methods  and  principles.  A  fairly  small  basic  mechanism 
has  been  selected  for  this  purpose  which,  admittedly,  does  not 
compare  with  the  very  latest  laboratory  equipment. 

The  general  arrangement  of  this  'demonstration  equipment'  is 
seen  in  Figure  33.  It  consists  essentially  of  a  wooden  tank, 
divided  into  a  series  of  smaller  compartments,  each  being  water- 
tight from  its  neighbours.  A  series  of  half-bearings,  machined  in  a 
metal  frame  mounted  on  these  tanks,  serves  to  support  the  racks 
which  carry  the  film  through  the  solutions.  The  film  spools,  splicing 
table  and  feed  elevators  serving  the  'supply'  end  of  the  machine 
are  located  to  the  left  of  these  tanks  as  shown.  The  purpose  of  this 
section  is  to  enable  rolls  of  film  to  be  spliced  together  and  fed 
continuously  through  the  tanks  without  interruption.  After  passing 
through  the  last  processing  tank,  shown  on  the  right,  the  film  is 
fed  through  an  air  squeegee  and  into  the  drying  cabinet.  From  this 
cabinet  the  film  passes  to  the  take-up  elevator  and  take-up  spool  - 
these  act  in  the  reverse  sense  to  the  feeding  mechanism  and  enable 
films  to  be  removed  without  interrupting  the  continuity  of  the 
process. 

Since  these  machines  are  required  to  run  continuously,  arrange- 
ments must  be  made  to  keep  them  loaded  with  film  both  before 
and  after  processing  actually  takes  place.  For  this  purpose  clear 
film  base  such  as  'Kodak  No.  6'  Machine  Leader,  considerably 
stronger  than  that  normally  used  for  photographic  purposes,  is 


80  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

threaded  through  each  rack  by  hand.  To  assist  in  this  opera- 
tion, the  racks  are  made  removable  and  supports,  shown 
at  *23\  Figure  33,  are  provided  above  the  tanks  on  which  to  hang 
each  rack  while  it  is  being  threaded.  The  threading  operation  is, 
of  course,  somewhat  difficult  and  it  should  only  be  necessary  to 
re-thread  a  machine  after  it  has  been  emptied  for  cleaning,  etc. 
Once  the  machine  is  threaded  with  leader  film  provision  must  be 
made  for  attaching  the  leading  edge  of  the  first  roll  which  is  to  be 
processed  to  the  trailing  edge  of  the  leader  film.  Obviously,  with 
the  machine  running  at  speeds  over  30- ft.  (9-  14-metres)  per 
minute,  a  cemented  join  is  out  of  the  question.  This  is  overcome 
by  using  a  machine  rather  similar  to  a  film  splicer  but  which 
employs  staples  or  rivets  to  secure  the  films  together  instead  of 
the  normal  film  cement. 

Feed  Rolls  and  Splicing  Table 

As  will  be  seen  from  Figure  33  two  feed  roll  holders,  marked 
(1)  and  (2),  are  provided.  This  is  necessary  since  a  support  must 
be  provided  for  roll  No.  2  while  roll  No.  1  is  still  passing  through 
the  machine.  An  alarm  signal  system  is  fitted  and  arranged  to 
cause  a  buzzer  to  operate  and  so  warn  the  man  running  the 
machine  that  either  roll  No.  1  or  roll  No.  2  is  almost  exhausted. 
This  mechanism  consists  of  an  arm  (3)  which  carries  a  stainless 
steel  roller,  mounted  in  ball  bearings  and  recessed  at  its  centre  so 
that  only  the  edges  of  the  roller  come  into  contact  with  the  film. 
Attached  to  this  arm  is  a  mercury  switch  (4)  which,  when  the  roll 
has  diminished  in  size  sufficiently  to  allow  arm  (3)  to  bring  it  to  a 
horizontal  position,  makes  electrical  contact  and  energizes  a  sole- 
noid. This  solenoid  releases  a  pawl  which  falls  by  gravity  and  locks 
the  toothed  wheel  connected  to  a  sprocket  wheel  (8),  thereby  hold- 
ing the  film  stationary.  The  mercury  switch  is  in  series  with  both 
the  solenoid  and  an  electrical  buzzer  so  that,  at  the  same  instant, 
an  alarm  signal  occurs  to  warn  the  operator  that  the  roll  of  film 
is  exhausted. 

The  splicing  unit,  shown  in  Figure  34,  consists  of  a  cast  base 
supporting  a  channel  35-5-mm  in  width.  Two  spring  loaded  dies 
are  mounted  flush  with  the  base  of  this  channel  and  it  is  at  this  point 
that  the  two  films  to  be  joined  are  overlapped.  The  perforations  of 
the  two  films  must  be  lined  up  accurately,  and  an  overlap  of  3 
perforations  is  necessary.  The  film  channel  is  divided  into  two 
halves  by  the  dies,  and  in  the  centre  of  each  half  is  mounted  a 
spring  loaded  film  clamp.  These  clamps  are  closed  onto  the  films 
after  they  have  been  lined  up  but  before  the  splicing  operation 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  81 

is  carried  out.  The  film  ends  are  then  raised  and  two  metal  rivets 
are  inserted  in  the  cupped  heads  of  the  dies  so  that  the  larger 
diameter  of  each  rivet  is  at  the  bottom. 

A  heavily  built  punch,  mounted  above  these  dies,  carries  two 
pins  designed  to  perforate  the  film,  force  it  over  the  rivet  heads  and 
then  firmly  to  close  these  heads,  so  locking  the  two  films  together. 
This  action  is  all  carried  out  in  the  one  operation  of  closing  the 
punch  smartly  over  the  film  path.  Before  releasing  the  film  sprocket 
(8),  Figure  33,  the  clamps  holding  the  film  in  the  splicer  should  be 
released,  the  film  taken  out,  and  the  edges  of  the  joint  trimmed  with 
scissors  as  close  to  the  rivet  heads  as  possible.  A  small  latch, 
located  above  the  pawl  which  locks  the  sprocket  wheel  (8),  is  then 
raised  to  allow  this  sprocket  to  rotate  once  more.  The  latch 
projects  through  an  opening  in  the  back  of  the  solenoid  housing. 


Fig.  34. — Splicing  unit  for  film  processing. 

The  Film  Feed  Elevator 

The  foregoing  operations  will,  after  a  little  practice,  be  accom- 
plished within  about  45  seconds  but,  during  this  time,  the  processing 
tanks  must  be  continuously  fed  with  film.  Time  in  which  to  perform 
this  operation  is  gained  by  causing  the  film  to  pass  through  a  feed 
elevator,  situated  between  the  splicing  table  and  the  first  processing 
bath  and  seen  at  (9)  and  (10),  Figure  33.  The  top  rollers  of  this 
unit  (9)  rotate  about  a  fixed  axle,  but  the  lower  rollers  (10)  are 
mounted  in  a  frame  which  can  move  in  a  vertical  direction  along 
two  highly  polished  runners.  The  frame  carrying  the  lower  rollers 
is  weighted  so  that  its  normal  position  will  be  at  the  bottom  of 
the  guide  channel. 

When  the  sprocket  wheel  (8)  is  locked  in  a  stationary  position, 
and  the  trailing  end  of  a  roll  of  film  is  held  in  readiness  to  be 
stapled  to  the  leading  edge  of  the  next  film,  the  processing  tanks 


82  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

will  gain  their  supply  of  film  from  the  feed  elevator  since,  under 
these  conditions,  the  lower  rollers  (10)  will  travel  slowly  up  the 
guide  channels  until  they  reach  the  top  rollers.  The  time  allowed 
for  this  operation  is  approximately  \\  minutes  (at  a  film  speed  of 
30-ft  (9*  14-metres)  per  minute),  and  splicing  will  have  been  carried 
out,  and  the  film  set  in  motion  once  more,  by  the  time  the  lower 
rollers  have  reached  approximately  the  mid-position  of  their  total 
available  travel.  Immediately  the  sprocket  wheel  (8)  is  set  in 
motion  once  more  the  lower  rollers  of  the  elevator  will  gradually 
fall  to  their  normal  position  at  the  bottom  of  the  guide  channels, 
due  to  the  weight  of  the  rack  supporting  these  rollers.  To  avoid 
undue  shock  on  reaching  the  end  of  their  travel  coil  springs  are 
located  around  the  guide  rods  and  serve  to  'cushion'  the  down- 
ward motion  and  to  bring  the  rollers  gently  to  rest. 

The  Processing  Tanks  and  Film  Racks 

In  this  small  machine  the  processing  tanks  consist  of  five  water- 
tight compartments  comprising,  (a)  the  developing  tank,  which 
is  nearest  the  splicing  table,  and  has  a  capacity  of  36  gallons  and 
holds  six  film  racks,  (b)  the  two  fixing  tanks,  which  adjoin  the 
developing  tank,  and  have  a  capacity  of  13£  gallons  each  and  hold 
two  film  racks  and,  lastly,  (c)  the  two  washing  tanks,  which  also 
have  a  capacity  of  13 \  gallons  each  and  hold  two  film  racks.  The 
developing  and  fixing  tanks  each  contain  a  coiled  stainless  steel 
tube  used  to  circulate  heating  or  cooling  water  through  the  tanks. 
A  circulating  pump  is  connected  with  the  developing  tank  and,  to 
avoid  possible  corrosion,  is  fitted  with  a  wrought  iron  rotor  and  a 
monel-metal  spindle.  A  series  of  valves  are  fitted  between  the 
pump  and  the  processing  tanks  to  enable  the  pump  to  be  used  for 
the  following  three  purposes: -(1)  To  circulate  the  developing 
solution  while  processing  is  being  carried  out,  (2)  To  pump  the 
original  developing  solution  from  the  chemical  mixing  room  into 
the  developing  tank,  and  (3)  To  pump  the  developer  replenishing 
solution  from  the  chemical  mixing  room  to  a  storage  tank  situated 
above  the  processing  machine. 

All  the  tanks  are  provided  with  a  large  drainage  pipe  and  outlet 
valve.  To  prevent  chemical  corrosion  the  outlet  valves  fitted  in  the 
pipes  leading  from  the  developing  and  fixing  tanks  are  lined  with 
hard  rubber  seatings.  The  level  to  which  the  developing  solution 
should  be  kept  is  indicated  by  a  thin  stainless  steel  strip  mounted 
within  the  tank,  just  above  which  is  an  overflow  pipe  connecting 
directly  with  the  main  drain.  The  two  fixing  solution  tanks  are 
identical  in  size,  but  are  not  connected  with  each  other.  The  two 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  83 

washing  tanks  are  interconnected  by  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  the 
partition  between  the  two  tanks,  and  2-inches  from  the  top.  Each 
tank  is  fitted  with  a  stainless  steel  sheet,  located  in  runners,  to 
divide  the  tank  effectively  into  two  compartments.  Since  the  steel 
sheet  does  not  touch  the  bottom  of  the  tank  the  water  is  caused  to 
circulate  in  the  following  manner:  -  It  enters,  via  a  water  filter,  the 
tank  nearest  the  drying  cabinet  through  a  pipe  let  into  the  top  right 
hand  corner  of  this  tank,  then  passes  down  the  first  compartment, 
across  and  under  the  steel  partition  into  the  second  compartment, 
up  this  compartment  and  through  the  hole  connecting  the  two 
tanks,  and  so  into  the  second  tank.  A  similar  path  is  followed  in 
this  tank,  and  on  reaching  the  last  compartment,  the  water  is  fed 
from  the  processing  tank  into  the  heat-transfer  coil  in  the  main 
water  storage  tank.  It  should  be  noticed  that  the  water  flows 
through  the  tanks  in  the  opposite  direction  to  the  path  travelled 
by  the  film. 


^^^^^l|^ 


^^^^N^^^i^H 


Fig.  35. — Plan  view  of  developing  racks. 

The  Film  Racks 

Figure  35  shows  a  plan  view  of  the  top  rollers  of  the  first  five 
racks  in  the  developing  tank.  The  lower  bank  of  rollers  are  the 
first  set  over  which  the  film  travels  on  entering  the  developing 
solution.  The  first  roller  in  this  rack,  that  is,  the  roller  shown  at 
the  bottom  left-hand  corner  of  Figure  35,  is  driven  by  friction 
only  between  the  roller  itself  and  its  supporting  shaft.  This  shaft  is 
driven  by  a  chain  sprocket  wheel  engaged  with  a  main  driving 
chain  which  runs  the  entire  length  of  the  tanks.  The  second  top 
roller,  on  the  same  shaft,  is  provided  with  sprocket  teeth  which  en- 


84 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  36. — Upper  rollers  and 
drive  to  processing  rack. 


Fig.  37. — Lower  rollers  of  processing 
rack. 


Fig.  39. — Processing  rack  loaded 
with  film. 


Fig.  38. — Processing  rack  assembly. 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  85 

gage  with  the  perforations  of  the  film.  This  roller  is  pinned  to  the 
centre  shaft,  and  is,  therefore,  positively  driven.  All  the  remaining 
five  rollers  on  the  top  of  this  rack  are  driven  by  friction  only  between 
the  rollers  themselves  and  the  shaft  upon  which  they  are  mounted, 
and  they  are  not  coupled  directly  with  this  shaft.  The  assembly 
of  these  rollers  is  clearly  shown  in  Figure  36. 

The  lower  rollers  are  all  free  to  rotate  on  a  fixed  axle,  mounted 
within  a  supporting  frame  as  shown  in  Figure  37.  This  frame  is 
fitted  with  edge  runners  which  allow  it  to  ride  vertically  in  the 
channel  formed  by  the  main  frame  of  the  rack.  In  this  manner  any 
variations  in  loop  length  between  the  top  and  bottom  rollers  are 
automatically  adjusted.  A  complete  rack  assembly  is  shown  in 
Figure  38  and  is  seen  to  consist  of  a  formed  framework  of  stainless 
steel  supporting,  at  the  top,  the  shaft  carrying  the  rollers  which 
rotate  about  a  fixed  centre  and,  at  the  bottom,  the  framework 
containing  those  rollers  which  may  ride  in  the  channel  formed  by 
the  framework  itself.  It  should  be  noticed  that  all  the  rollers,  with 
the  exception  of  that  top  roller  which  is  positively  connected  to 
the  driving  shaft,  are  recessed  over  the  central  area  to  avoid  the 
possibility  of  foreign  material  becoming  embedded  in  the  roller 
surface  and  so  scratching  the  film.  Figure  39  shows  a  rack  loaded 
with  film  and  illustrates  an  important  point.  The  film  enters  the 
rack  at  the  top  left-hand  roller  with  the  emulsion  surface  facing 
uppermost,  since  the  film  then  travels  in  a  spiral  form  the  emulsion 
surface  will  remain  in  this  position  throughout  the  entire  machine 
and  thereby  eliminate  the  possibility  of  scratching  this  surface. 

Referring  once  more  to  Figure  35,  it  should  be  noticed  that 
rack  No.  2  (the  second  from  the  bottom  of  the  figure)  is  similar  to 
rack  No.  1  except  for  the  position  of  the  driving  top  roller.  This 
roller  is  at  the  opposite  end  of  the  shaft  to  that  shown  in  rack  No. 
1.  It  is  also  seen  from  this  figure  that  the  position  of  this  driven 
roller  alternates  from  one  rack  to  the  next,  and  in  this  manner  the 
drive  to  the  film  is  maintained  with  even  tension  throughout  the 
whole  machine.  Although  the  rack  assemblies  are  mounted  in 
bearings  at  the  top  of  the  tanks,  wooden  guiding  key-ways  are 
fitted  within  the  tanks  and  near  the  bottom  in  which  the  racks 
should  be  fitted  to  ensure  good  alignment  and  to  eliminate  the 
possibility  of  one  rack  touching  its  neighbour. 

The  Air  Squeegee 

Modern  practice  has  shown  it  to  be  necessary  to  remove  all  the 
free  surface  moisture  from  the  film  before  it  enters  the  drying 


86 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  40. — Compressed  air  squeegee. 


compartment.  This  is  necessary  for  two  reasons,  firstly  to  enable 
the  film  to  be  dried  in  the  shortest  possible  time  and  with  the 
least  amount  of  heat  and,  secondly,  to  avoid  drying  marks  which 
would  otherwise  occur  if  spots  of  water  were  *  dried  into'  the  film 
emulsion  or  its  supporting  base. 

In  this  machine  an  air  squeegee  is  attached  to  the  outside  of 
the  drying  cabinet  in  such  a  manner  that  the  film  passing  from  the 
last  washing  tank  into  the  cabinet  must  pass  between  the  two 
nozzles  of  the  squeegee.  The  squeegee,  shown  in  Figure  40, 
consists  of  a  vertical  plate  on  which  are  mounted  the  two  air  nozzles 
one  above  and  one  below  the  film,  together  with  a  series  of  guiding 
rollers.  The  nozzles  are  locked  to  the  vertical  plate  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  angle  between  the  air  stream  and  the  film  surface  may  be 
adjusted.  The  guide  rollers  support  the  film  on  the  base  side,  and 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT 


87 


are  recessed  at  the  centre  so  that  contact  is  only  made  with  the 
extreme  edges  of  the  film.  The  swinging  jockey  roller,  which  rests 
on  the  emulsion  surface,  serves  to  prevent  the  film  from  being 
blown  up  against  the  upper  nozzle  -  which  would  then  scratch  the 
emulsion  and  catch  the  joints  in  the  film. 

The  Drying  Cabinet 

The  drying  cabinet  is  divided  into  two  sections  by  a  sheet  metal 
plate,  supported  vertically  down  the  centre  of  the  cabinet.  As  seen 
in  Figure  41,  each  section  contains  two  racks  of  film,  the  top 
rollers  of  which  rotate  about  a  fixed  centre,  and  the  lower  rollers 
are  mounted  in  brackets  which  are  free  to  ride  in  vertical  channels. 
In  a  similar  manner  to  the  processing  racks,  each  set  of  rollers  in 


Fig.  41.— Film  drying  cabinet. 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  42. — Lower  rack  in  film  drying  cabinet. 


the  top  section  of  the  cabinet  comprises  six  free  rollers  and  one 
fixed  roller,  pinned  to  the  shaft  and  fitted  with  sprocket  teeth.  The 
top  shafts  are  driven  by  an  endless  chain  positively  connected  to 
the  main  driving  train  serving  the  entire  machine.  The  arrange- 
ment of  roller  distribution  is  similar  to  that  in  the  processing 
racks,  i.e.  the  first  roller  over  which  the  film  passes  on  entering  the 
cabinet  is  free,  being  driven  only  by  its  frictional  contact  with  the 
rotating  shaft  supporting  it.  The  second  roller  is  the  one  fitted 
with  sprocket  teeth  and  is  positively  driven  by  the  shaft.  The  re- 
maining five  rollers  are  all  free  to  rotate  by  frictional  contact 
only. 

The  lower  racks  are  shown  in  detail  in  Figure  42,  and  consist 
of  cantilever  castings  which  are  supported  in  guide  channels  at 
the  rear  of  the  cabinet.  The  cantilevers  are  fitted  with  ball-bearings 
to  ensure  their  smooth  travel  along  the  guide  channels.  All  the 
rollers  in  these  lower  racks  are  free  to  rotate  about  fixed  axles. 

The  ceiling  of  the  left  hand  compartment  of  the  cabinet  is  cut 
away  to  provide  an  inlet  through  which  hot  air  is  drawn  by  the 
circulating  fan.  In  a  similar  manner  the  ceiling  of  the  right-hand 
compartment  is  cut  away  to  connect  this  section  of  the  cabinet 
with  a  ducting,  at  the  opposite  end  of  which  the  fan  is  mounted. 
Suitable  controls  are  provided  whereby  the  amount  of  heat 
employed  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  prevailing  conditions.  Provision 
is  made  in  each  section  of  the  drying  cabinet  to  house  a  safelight 
mount  into  which  may  be  fitted  the  appropriate  grade  of  filter 
suitable  for  use  with  the  film  is  question.  It  should  perhaps  be 
mentioned  that  the  use  of  safelights  at  this  end  of  the  machine  is 
only  necessary  when  the  entire  machine  is  so  compact  that  it  is  all 
housed  in  a  single  room.  The  larger  machines  are  usually  housed 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  89 

in  two  rooms,  the  second  containing  only  the  drying  cupboards 
and  which  may,  therefore,  be  illuminated  with  white  light. 

The  Take-Up  Elevator 

The  purpose  of  the  take-up  elevator  is  similar  to  that  of  the  film- 
feed  elevator  since  it  serves  to  provide  a  means  into  which  film  may 
be  fed  whilst  the  take-up  spool  has  been  stopped  in  order  to  remove 
a  full  roll  of  processed  and  dried  film.  While  the  machine  is  running, 
and  when  rolls  of  film  are  not  being  removed  from  the  take-up 
spool,  the  lower  rack  of  this  elevator  is  at  its  top  position.  When 
the  take-up  spool  is  stopped  to  allow  the  removal  of  the  film,  this 
lower  rack  gradually  travels  down  the  guide  channels  during  which 
time,  of  course,  it  is  necessary  for  the  operator  to  remove  the  full 
roll  of  film,  replace  a  new  empty  core  onto  the  take-up  spindle 
and  attach  the  end  of  the  next  roll  which  is  coming  from  the 
drying  cabinet.  A  ratchet  and  pawl  are  fitted  to  the  last  top  roller 
of  this  assembly  to  prevent  the  loose  end  of  film  slipping  back  into 
the  drying  cabinet  when  it  is  cut  away  from  the  completed  roll. 

The  Main  Driving  Motor  and  Chain  Drives 

It  will  be  obvious  to  those  who  are  at  all  familiar  with  trade 
laboratory  processing  machinery  that  the  machine  which  is  being 
described  is  a  very  small  version  of  the  normal  equipment. 
Because  of  this  it  is  possible  to  drive  the  entire  unit  by  a  J  H.P. 
synchronous  motor,  conveniently  housed  in  a  compartment 
between  the  film  feed  elevator  and  the  developing  tank.  Push- 
buttons controlling  this  motor  are  mounted  on  the  front  panel  of 
the  motor  housing  and  also  on  the  side  of  the  drying  cabinet. 
Either  switch  may  be  used  to  start  or  stop  the  motor,  one  being 
fitted  at  each  end  of  the  machine  for  convenience  of  operation. 
The  motor  fitted  to  this  machine  has  a  built-in  gear  reduction 
unit  and  a  change-speed  system  whereby  it  is  possible  to  run  the 
machine  at  film  speeds  of  either  15-ft  (4-57-metres)  or  30-ft 
(9-  14-metres)  per  minute. 

Should  the  electrical  supply  fail  while  the  machine  is  running  it 
is  essential  to  have  some  means  to  salvage  that  film  contained 
within  the  processing  tanks  with  the  least  possible  loss.  For  this 
purpose  an  auxiliary  handle  may  be  attached  to  the  main  chain 
drive  and  the  mechanism  driven  manually  until  the  last  roll  of 
film  involved  has  been  successfully  passed  through  the  baths. 
Obviously,  when  such  a  failure  occurs,  the  best  which  may  be 
expected  is  only  a  compromise,  since  the  heating  system  in  the 


90  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

drying  cabinet  would  also  stop  and  the  rate  at  which  the  operator 
rotates  the  handle  may  vary  and  so  cause  uneven  development. 
However,  when  these  possibilities  are  taken  into  account,  it  is 
better  to  obtain  a  film  which  may  not  compare  with  that  processed 
under  normal  conditions  rather  than  to  lose  entirely  a  complete 
roll  of  work. 

The  output  shaft  from  the  main  gearbox  transmits  driving 
power  to  the  main  chain.  This  chain  is  housed  in  a  channel, 
enclosed  by  a  stainless  steel  hinged  cover,  mounted  on  the  side  of 
the  tanks.  The  racks  in  each  tank  rest  on  bearings  (cut  in  the 
channel  forming  the  main  frame  on  the  tanks)  so  that  the  sprocket 
wheels  which  drive  the  shafts  in  these  racks  automatically  engage 
with  the  main  chain.  Between  the  processing  tanks  and  the  drying 
cabinet  another  shaft,  driven  by  and  supporting  the  main  chain, 
transmits  the  drive  across  the  tanks  to  another  chain  which  drives 
the  top  shafts  in  the  drying  cabinet.  The  sprocket  wheel  which 
drives  the  elevator  rollers  outside  the  drying  cabinet  is  fitted  with 
a  pulley  from  which  a  belt  transmits  the  drive  to  the  take-up  shaft. 

The  Alarm  Signal  System 

Two  essential  functions,  which  depend  upon  manual  operation, 
are  the  splicing  of  a  new  roll  of  film  immediately  the  one  in  use 
becomes  exhausted,  and  ensuring  the  film  take-up  to  be  working 
correctly.  Alarm  devices  are  therefore  usually  fitted  at  these 
points. 

In  the  case  of  film  splicing  it  will  be  remembered  that  two  arms 
have  been  fitted  in  such  a  manner  that  rollers,  supported  at  their 
extremities,  move  downwards  in  an  arc  as  the  roll  of  film  decreases 
in  diameter.  Mercury  switches,  housed  in  metal  frames  attached 
to  these  arms,  come  into  operation  on  reaching  a  horizontal 
position.  These  switches  complete  a  bell  circuit  which  is  supplied 
from  a  transformer  housed  some  distance  from  the  processing 
machine.  The  circuit  is  merely  the  mercury  switch,  a  solenoid  and 
an  alarm  buzzer  wired  in  series.  Thus,  immediately  the  mercury 
switch  reaches  a  horizontal  position  the  buzzer  gives  an  alarm 
signal.  The  solenoid  is  energized  at  the  same  instant  and  pulls  a 
support  from  under  a  pawl  which,  in  turn,  drops  into  a  ratchet 
wheel  attached  to  the  sprocket  supplying  film  to  the  developing 
tank  -  this  action  arrests  the  film. 

The  mercury  switch  housing  is  attached  to  its  arm  in  such  a  man- 
ner that  the  angle  it  makes  with  this  arm  is  capable  of  adjustment. 
The  alarm  may  therefore  be  set  to  operate  when  the  film  roll  has 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  91 

decreased  to  any  desired  size.  The  take-up  alarm  is  also  a  part  of 
the  film  feeding  mechanism.  The  last  top  roller  on  the  take-up 
elevator  is  fitted  with  sprocket  teeth,  and  a  ratchet  wheel  and  pawl 
are  attached  to  one  side  of  the  roller.  This  ratchet  and  pawl  are  a 
safeguard  to  ensure  that  the  film  end  is  not  lost  when  full  rolls  of 
film  are  removed  from  the  machine.  Since  this  pawl  causes  a 
considerable  noise  in  striking  continuously  against  the  ratchet, 
this  noise  serves  to  indicate  that  the  take-up  roll  is  operating. 
The  last  roller  on  the  take-up  elevator  is  driven  only  by  the  take-up 
spindle  and,  therefore,  would  stop  rotating  immediately  the  take- 
up  roll  ceased  to  pull  the  film  from  the  elevator. 

The  Developer  Circulating  Pump 

In  this  particular  machine  the  purpose  of  this  pump  is  threefold:  - 
firstly,  to  circulate  the  developing  solution  sufficiently  to  keep  the 
temperature  even  throughout  the  bath  -  and  to  guard  against  any 
small  pocket  of  highly  concentrated  solution  forming  at  the  inlet 
from  the  replenishing  system  and  also  to  assist  in  the  general 
evenness  of  development  throughout  the  bath.  To  do  this  the  pump 
removes  solution  from  the  bottom  of  the  tank  and  forces  it  in 
again  just  below  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  Secondly,  the  pump  is 
required  to  draw  freshly  made  developer  from  the  chemical 
mixing  room  and  into  the  processing  tanks.  Lastly,  it  may  be 
required  to  draw  developer  replenishing  solution  from  the  chem- 
ical mixing  room  into  the  replenisher  tank,  situated  above  the 
processing  machine. 

Any  of  the  above  functions  may  be  performed  by  merely 
adjusting  the  position  of  two  three-way  valves,  situated  between 
the  pump  and  the  processing  tanks.  In  order  to  do  this  work 
efficiently  the  pump  must  be  capable  of  circulating  the  total 
36  gallons  of  developer  completely  at  least  once  every  half-hour. 

The  Solution  Replenishment  System 

A  constant-head  device,  rather  like  the  carburettor  fitted  in  motor 
cars,  is  located  above  the  developing  tank  and  connected  with  the 
replenishing  tank,  thus  ensuring  a  steady  feed  from  this  tank  into 
the  main  processing  tank.  The  rate  of  replenishment  must  be  varied 
with  the  rate  of  travel  of  the  film  through  the  machine,  since  a 
given  footage  of  film  requires  a  given  quantity  of  replenishment 
(this  quantity  will  also  vary  according  to  the  type  of  film  which  is 
being  processed).  Developing  power  is  lost  by  two  causes,  firstly 
by  the  developing  solution  becoming  exhausted  and,  secondly, 


92  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

by  the  film  carrying  a  considerable  quantity  of  solution  over  into 
the  fixing  tank  although,  in  modern  equipment,  the  'carry  over' 
would  be  into  an  intermediate  washing  tank.  In  larger  equip- 
ment it  is  necessary  to  provide  an  air-squeegee  between  the 
developing  and  fixing  tanks  to  ensure  that  only  the  very  minimum 
amount  of  developer  is  lost  in  this  manner.  Automatic  replenish- 
ment is  not  fitted  to  the  fixing  tanks  of  this  machine  since  the 
entire  solution  held  in  these  tanks  is  changed  immediately  it 
becomes  exhausted. 


Operating  the  Machine 

Once  the  machine  has  been  threaded  with  film,  and  processing  has 
commenced,  it  should  be  possible  to  regard  the  normal  running  as 
a  semi-automatic  operation.  This  will  only  be  so  if  the  following 
precautions  are  observed: -(1)  That  the  machine  is  always  kept 
threaded  with  either  film  which  is  being  processed,  or  used  as 
leader.  (2)  That  the  number  of  times  leader  film  has  to  be  spliced 
in  between  films  being  processed  is  reduced  to  a  minimum.  (3) 
That  new  rolls  of  film,  or  leader  film,  are  always  loaded  on  the 
splicing  table,  ready  to  attach  to  the  end  of  the  film  passing  through 
the  machine.  (4)  That  a  supply  of  take-up  cores,  onto  which  the 
dried  film  is  wound,  is  always  kept  at  hand  near  the  take-up 
mechanism  and,  (5)  That  the  stock  of  film  staples  is  always  main- 
tained. 

The  reasons  for  these  precautions  become  very  obvious  when 
the  operator  starts  to  run  the  machine.  When  it  is  remembered 
that  860-ft  (262-1 -metres)  of  film  are  necessary  to  thread  the 
machine  completely,  and  that  this  operation  takes  about  30 
minutes  to  perform,  the  importance  of  keeping  the  machine 
threaded,  once  this  condition  has  been  achieved,  is  appreciated. 
Similarly,  if  the  number  of  times  leader  film  is  spliced  in  between 
rolls  being  processed  can  be  reduced  to  a  minimum,  two  purposes 
are  served.  Firstly,  it  will  be  an  indication  that  the  laboratory  is 
running  smoothly,  and  that  the  machine  is  operating  at  maximum 
efficiency.  Secondly,  it  will  reduce  the  amount  of  wear  and  tear  on 
the  leader  film  stock.  Whilst  this  film  is  exceptionally  strong  it 
becomes  brittle  in  time  as  a  result  of  constant  swelling  in  the 
solutions  followed  by  immediate  drying.  It  is  not  always  possible 
to  start  or  stop  running  leader  film  at  the  end  of  a  roll,  and  the 
film  subjected  to  this  treatment  soon  contains  a  large  number  of 
splices,  each  of  which  should  be  regarded  as  a  potential  source  of 
trouble  when  passing  through  air  squeegees,  etc.  The  work  should 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  93 

therefore  be  so  arranged  that  the  leader  film  is  used  only  once  at 
the  beginning  of  each  days  run,  and  again  at  the  conclusion  of 
the  day  to  leave  the  machine  threaded  in  readiness  for  future 
work. 


Fig.  43. — Processing  machine  "supply  unit'* 

Threading  the  Machine 

To  assist  those  who  are  not  very  familiar  with  processing  machinery 
a  detailed  description  of  the  threading  operation  necessary  with 
this  particular  unit  is  given.  The  threading  is  commenced  at  the 
splicing  table,  or  Teed'  end  of  the  machine.  Figure  43  shows  the 
feed  rollers,  splicing  table  and  the  top  rollers  of  the  feed  elevator. 
Threading  is  then  carried  out  as  follows:  -  The  alarm  signal  arm 
is  raised  on  the  top  film  roll  holder.  1,000-ft  (304-8-metres)  of 
machine  leader  film  is  then  placed  on  this  top  roll  holder.  The 
alarm  signal  arm  is  then  lowered  onto  the  top  edge  of  this  roll.  The 
leading  edge  of  the  film  is  then  brought  under  roller  (b),  over  the 
splicing  unit  (c),  and  towards  the  safety  locking  device  (d).  The 
film  is  then  fed  under  the  weighted  guide  roller  of  the  locking  device, 


94 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  44. — Film  safety  locking  device. 


over  the  sprocket  wheel,  and  under  the  lower  guide  roller.  This 
arrangement  is  clearly  seen  in  Figure  44. 

The  film  is  then  taken  up  to  the  nearest  of  the  top  bank  of 
rollers  on  the  feed  elevator.  It  is  fed  over  the  roller  from  the  left 
and  downwards  to  the  right.  The  leading  edge  of  film  is  then 
brought  down  to  the  first  of  the  lower  bank  of  rollers  in  the  *  Feed- 
elevator'.  It  passes  under  the  roller  from  the  right  and  up  again 
from  the  left.  This  process  is  continued  until  all  the  rollers  on  the 
elevator  have  been  threaded.  At  this  stage  the  leading  edge  of 
film  will  be  passing  over  the  last  of  the  top  bank  of  rollers.  Level 
with  this  roller  is  a  small  aperture  in  the  back  panel  on  which  the 
elevator  is  mounted,  and  the  film  is  passed  through  this  opening 
towards  the  processing  tanks.  The  first  rack  in  the  developing 
tank  is  then  raised  and  attached  to  the  first  hook  on  the  cross-bar 
mounted  above  the  tanks,  this  condition  being  shown  in  Figure  45. 
The  leading  edge  of  the  film  is  then  brought  through  the  aperture 
and  over  the  first  of  the  top  bank  of  rollers  in  the  first  rack,  as  seen 
in  Figure  46.  The  film  is  then  threaded  into  the  rack  in  spiral  form 
until  it  is  completely  filled,  as  seen  in  Figure  47.  At  this  stage  the 
leading  edge  of  the  film  will  pass  over  the  last  of  the  top  bank  of 
rollers. 

The  rack  is  then  lowered  into  the  supporting  bearings  on  the 
main  frame,  and  the  sprocket  is  engaged  with  the  main  driving 
chain.  To  load  a  second  rack  it  will  be  necessary  to  drive  the  main 
chain  and  so  rotate  the  top  shaft  in  the  rack  which  has  just  been 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT 


96  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

loaded.  The  film  is  then  threaded  in  a  similar  manner  through  all 
the  racks  in  the  machine  and,  when  this  condition  exists,  the  leading 
edge  of  the  film  will  appear  at  the  last  top  roller,  of  the  last  rack 
in  the  washing  tank. 

The  film  is  then  fed  through  the  air  squeegee  and  passed  through 
an  aperture  in  the  side  wall  of  the  drying  cabinet.  The  arrangement 
of  the  racks  in  the  drying  cabinet  is  similar  to  those  in  the  processing 
machine.  When  the  film  reaches  the  last  roller  on  the  top  bank 
nearest  the  take-up  equipment  it  will  be  level  with  a  second 
aperture  cut  in  the  walls  of  the  drying  cabinet  and  through  which 
it  is  then  passed  to  the  top  bank  of  rollers  in  the  take  up  elevator. 
This  elevator  is  threaded  in  a  similar  manner  to  the  feed  elevator 
and,  at  this  stage,  it  is  not  important  to  maintain  the  lower  bank 
of  rollers  in  any  special  position.  The  leading  end  of  the  film  is 
then  passed  to  the  core  attached  to  the  take-up  spindle  and,  by 
rotating  this  spindle  the  surplus  film  in  the  take-up  elevator  is 
removed  and  the  lower  bank  of  rollers  thereby  raised  until  it  is 
nearly  touching  the  top  or  fixed  bank. 

Irregularities  Which  May  Occur  When  Running 

As  a  further  indication  of  the  care  and  attention  which  should  be 
exercised  by  a  processing  machine  operator,  the  following  short 
list  of  the  more  important  irregularities  which  may  occur  during  the 
operation  of  the  machine  is  given.  It  should  be  remembered  that, 
whilst  many  of  these  irregularities  are  only  applicable  to  this 
particular  machine  (which  is  only  a  very  small  model  of  the  more 
usual  laboratory  equipment),  they  are  included  to  give  a  more 
detailed  impression  of  the  mechanical  aspects  of  processing 
machinery. 

Firstly,  the  lower  bank  of  rollers  in  the  feed  elevator  (that  is,  the 
mechanism  between  the  supply  spools  and  the  developing  tank) 
may  rise  in  its  channel  and  so  shorten  the  available  time  in  which 
the  splicing  operation  may  be  completed.  This  may  be  due  to  the 
feed  roll  of  film  becoming  tight  on  its  supporting  shaft,  the  shaft 
seizing  in  its  bearings,  the  automatic  locking  device  arresting  the 
supply  sprocket  or  the  top  bank  of  rollers  on  the  feed  elevator 
becoming  tight  in  their  bearings. 

Secondly,  the  lower  bank  of  rollers  in  any  rack  in  the  processing 
tanks  may  rise  in  its  channels.  A  thin  stainless  steel  rod  is  attached 
to  the  lower  framework  and  extends  vertically  up  the  side  of  the 
rack  to  appear  above  the  level  of  the  tank;  this  rod  would,  therefore, 
rise  above  the  level  of  its  neighbours  and  warn  the  operator  of  this 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  97 

irregularity.  Such  a  condition  may  be  caused  by  (a)  the  film  not 
being  positively  driven  by  the  sprocket  on  any  rack,  (b)  any  roller 
on  either  the  faulty  rack  or  the  one  preceding  it  having  seized  up 
on  the  top  or  bottom  shafts  or  (c)  the  rack  immediately  preceding 
the  faulty  one  not  being  well  seated  in  its  bearings  and,  therefore, 
not  being  driven  by  the  main  chain. 

If  any  of  the  lower  rollers  in  any  rack  fall  to  the  bottom  of  their 
guide  channels  (indicated  by  the  thin  guide  rod,  mentioned 
previously,  falling  below  the  level  of  its  neighbours)  this  will 
indicate  that  the  film  has  broken  in  this  rack.  In  these  circumstances 
everything  depends  on  the  operator  -  who  should  keep  perfectly 
calm  and  not  attempt  to  mend  the  film  immediately.  By  far  the 
safest  plan,  at  least  until  he  becomes  familiar  with  this  type  of 
machinery,  is  to  stop  the  machine  -  thereby  preventing  any  more 
film  from  entering  the  tanks  -  and  quickly  to  insert  the  hand- 
turning  gear  and  lifting  all  those  racks  between  the  break  and  the 
supply  end  of  the  machine  away  from  the  driving  chain.  These 
moves  will  salvage  the  film  between  the  break  and  the  take-up 
roll.  Since  breakages  are  extremely  rare,  and  will  only  occur  when 
either  bad  splicing  or  faulty  maintenance  has  been  permitted, 
this  course  of  action  is  easier  than  attempting  to  re-join  the  film 
while  the  machine  is  running. 

The  Drying  Cabinet  Temperature 

In  this  particular  machine  a  thermometer  is  provided  in  the 
drying  cabinet  and  the  operator  is  required  to  keep  a  close  watch 
on  this  instrument,  both  to  ensure  that  the  temperature  does  not 
rise  too  high  and  also  to  become  familiar  with  the  temperature 
ranges  to  be  expected  from  the  various  combinations  of  heating 
which  are  available.  The  normal  working  temperature  in  the 
cabinet  is  found  to  be  approximately  180°F. 

The  Appearance  of  Drying  Film 

If,  after  thoroughly  soaking  a  length  of  35-mm  film,  it  is  sus- 
pended from  one  end  it  will  show  a  marked  tendency  to  curl  in  a 
tubular  fashion.  This  curling  will  be  such  that  the  side  which  is 
coated  with  emulsion  will  become  convex  and  the  uncoated  side 
will  become  concave.  Such  a  condition  is  known  in  the  trade  as  a 
'negative  curl'.  If  the  same  length  of  film  is  then  suspended  in  a 
drying  cabinet  and  left  until  completely  dry  it  will  pass  through 
the  following  phases.  Firstly,  it  will  gradually  flatten  out  so  that 
the  tubular  effect  is  completely  eliminated.  Then,  as  the  drying 


98  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

proceeds,  the  film  will  commence  to  curl  again,  but  will  do  so  in 
the  reverse  direction,  -  the  uncoated  side  will  become  convex  and 
the  coated  or  emulsion  side  will  become  concave.  This  condition 
is  known  as  a  'positive  curl*. 

As  a  result  of  this  effect  it  is  possible  to  estimate  with  con- 
siderable accuracy  the  position  in  the  drying  cabinet  at  which  the 
film  just  commences  to  dry.  It  may  be  taken  to  be  that  position 
where  the  film  has  passed  from  its  first  curled  state  and  has  become 
reasonably  flat.  However,  it  is  necessary  to  continue  the  drying 
for  some  considerable  time  after  this  condition  has  been  reached 
in  order  to  produce  films  which  have  been  dried  sufficiently  for 
them  to  be  wound  up  immediately  upon  leaving  the  cabinet.  The 
film  should  pass  from  the  first,  or  'negative'  state,  to  the  reasonably 
flat  condition  by  the  time  it  reaches  the  middle  of  the  cabinet. 

Brief  Processing  Notes 

It  is  not  the  intention,  at  this  stage,  to  deal  in  detail  with  the  chemi- 
cal aspects  of  continuous  processing  but,  since  the  'demonstration* 
machine  has  been  described  in  such  detail,  the  following  informa- 
tion regarding  the  actual  processing  conditions  will  serve  to 
complete  the  fundamental  considerations  of  the  process.  However, 
it  should  be  remembered  that  these  conditions  only  apply  to  this 
exceptionally  small  machine  which,  when  compared  with  most 
trade  processing  equipment,  is  also  designed  to  run  at  a  relatively 
slow  speed. 

Development 

Under  normal  conditions  the  film  will  run  through  this  machine 
at  a  speed  of  30-ft  (9-  14-metres)  per  minute.  When  six  racks  are 
immersed  to  their  full  extent  in  the  developing  solution  the  time  of 
development  is  6J  minutes.  The  temperature  of  the  developer 
must  be  controlled  (by  the  heated  water  jacket  system  previously 
described)  to  remain  within  plus  or  minus  one  degree  of  70°F. 

If  adverse  atmospheric  conditions  affect  the  drying  of  the  film, 
even  when  all  the  available  heaters  are  in  operation,  the  only 
course  open  to  the  operator  is  to  reduce  the  speed  of  the  machine 
and,  consequently,  increase  the  time  during  which  the  film  is  in 
the  drying  cabinet.  Such  a  move  will  also  make  it  necessary  to 
omit  some  of  the  racks  in  the  developing  tank  completely,  since 
it  will  still  be  necessary  to  maintain  the  correct  development  time 
at  a  slower  film  speed. 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  99 

Developer  Replenishment 

This  solution  is,  in  effect,  a  more  concentrated  form  of  the 
developer  and  is  designed  to  replace  the  chemicals  which  have 
been  consumed  in  the  course  of  processing.  It  is  obvious  that 
the  addition  of  replenisher  should  be  carefully  controlled  and 
experience  has  shown  that  it  is  best  to  maintain  a  constant  flow  of 
replenisher,  rather  than  introducing  small  quantities  of  con- 
centrated solution  at  intervals.  This  is  effected  by  the  'constant- 
head'  device  previously  referred  to  and  the  rate  at  which  the 
solution  is  added  to  the  bath  is  determined  by  the  speed  at  which 
the  film  is  travelling  and  the  amount  of  developer  which  is  carried 
over  into  the  fixing  bath.  This  rate  of  replenishment  is,  therefore, 
only  ascertained  by  carefully  analysing  the  sensitometric  con- 
ditions of  the  bath  in  a  manner  which  will  be  described  later. 

The  Fixing  Baths 

After  emerging  from  the  developing  tank  the  film  enters  a  fixing 
solution  which  clears  the  unexposed  and  undeveloped  areas  of  the 
emulsion.  In  this  process  silver  passes  into  solution  in  the  'fixer' 
and,  as  its  concentration  increases,  slows  down  the  rate  of 'clearing'. 
Moreover,  since  the  water  carried  in  from  the  developer  will  dilute 
the  fixer,  this  also  tends  to  prolong  the  clearing  time.When  the 
bath  in  the  first  fixing  tank  is  fresh  the  film  is  cleared  before  it 
reaches  the  end  of  the  first  rack,  that  is,  in  less  than  one  minute. 
As  more  film  is  fixed  the  clearing  time  increases  until  the  film  is 
clearing  on  the  end  of  the  second  rack.  This  will  be  after  about 
30  1,000-ft  (304-8-metres)  rolls  of  film  have  been  fixed.  Naturally 
the  exhaustion  of  the  fixer  depends  also  upon  the  nature  of  the 
film  being  processed.  Film  only  carrying  a  sound  track  record  will 
exhaust  the  fixer  very  much  more  quickly  than  film  carrying  a 
picture  record,  since,  in  the  first  case,  almost  all  the  emulsion  will 
need  to  be  dissolved  into  the  fixer. 

Hardening 

Another  function  of  the  fixing  bath  is,  in  this  machine,  to  harden 
and  contract  the  gelatin  which  has  been  softened  and  swollen  in  the 
developer.  The  degree  of  hardening  directly  affects  the  drying  time, 
since  the  contracted  gelatin  carries  less  water  than  a  similar 
gelatin  which  is  swollen  and,  therefore,  takes  less  time  to  dry  out. 
If  processing  is  carried  out  under  conditions  where  the  prevailing 
atmosphere  causes  the  drying  cabinet  to  be  operated  with  all  the 
available  heating  in  use,  it  may  be  necessary  to  discard  the  fixing 


100  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

solutions  more  frequently  than  is  necessary  merely  to  maintain 
adequate  clearing,  in  order  to  maintain  a  very  high  degree  of 
hardening  and  thus  to  assist  the  drying  operation. 

Details  of  other  Processing  Equipment 

The  foregoing  lengthy  analysis  of  the  operation  of  one  of  the  most 
simple  types  of  processing  machines  should  enable  us  to  turn  now 
to  the  examination  of  specific  details  in  modern  large  scale 
Laboratory  equipment.  The  speed  at  which  continuous  processing 
machines  operate  varies  from  one  type  to  another  over  a  range 
from  30-ft  (9-14-metres)  per  minute  up  to  as  much  as  200-ft 
(60-96-metres)  per  minute.  The  size  of  such  machinery  may  be 
anything  between  20-ft  (6  •  09-metres)  and  150-ft  (45  •  72-metres) 
in  length.  Most  laboratories  employ  very  large  drying  cupboards, 
some  as  long  as  30-ft  (9-14-metres)  and  accommodating  several 
thousands  of  feet  of  film.  It  is  therefore  to  be  expected  that  the 
methods  employed  by  any  one  company  depend  largely  upon  the 
size  of  the  equipment,  the  speed  at  which  the  film  travels  and  the 
type  of  processing  which  is  undertaken. 

Methods  of  Film  Transport 

Three  main  types  of  film  transport  mechanisms,  apart  from  that 
previously  described,  are  at  present  in  use  by  the  Trade  Labora- 
tories and  are  as  follows :  Firstly,  a  rack  system  which  employs 
diabolos  at  the  position  of  the  lower  rollers  and  which  has  been 
used  extensively  in  processing  equipment  made  by  W.  Vinten  &  Co. 
Ltd.  Secondly,  the  tubular  processing  system  in  which  loops  of 
great  length  are  each  isolated  in  individual  tubes;  this  system  has 
been  used  in  one  type  of  machine  made  by  The  Lawley  Company. 
The  third  type  of  machine  employs  a  tendency-drive  in  which  the 
film  is  caused  to  travel  through  the  entire  processing  system  with- 
out engaging  the  perforations  with  any  sprocket  wheels;  such  a 
machine  has  been  used  very  successfully  by  the  Kodak  Company. 
The  diabolo  type  of  film  rack  is  similar  in  general  arrangement 
to  the  rack  previously  described  in  detail,  except  for  the  following 
points.  Firstly,  all  the  top  rollers  are  positively  driven  and  each  one 
is  fitted  with  sprocket  teeth  so  that,  once  the  rack  has  been  threaded 
with  film,  loops  of  constant  size  are  always  maintained.  Secondly, 
the  bottom  of  the  loops  are  only  held  in  position  by  large,  heavy 
bobbins  fitted  with  side-flanges  and  known  as  *diabolos\  Each 
bobbin  is  quite  independent  of  its  neighbours  and,  therefore,  it  is 
not  necessary  to  maintain  all  the  loops  at  equal  lengths.  The 
second  system,  which  employs  loops  of  considerable  length,  each 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  101 

isolated  within  a  separate  tube  of  solution,  again  uses  driven 
sprockets  to  each  loop  and  must,  of  course,  employ  a  lower  roller 
within  each  tube  to  control  the  loop  and  to  prevent  it  'whipping' 
against  the  walls  of  the  tube.  The  third  system,  known  as  the 
'tendency-drive'  is  so  vastly  different  from  the  others  that  it  will 
be  described  in  detail. 

The  machine  maintains  even  film  loop  size  throughout  the 
entire  process  and  at  no  time  is  the  film  driven  by  sprocket  teeth 
engaging  with  the  perforations.  One  may  at  first  ask  why  driven 
sprockets  should  not  be  used  to  effect  the  traction  through  this 
machine.  The  answer  is,  of  course,  that  quite  apart  from  the 
advantages  to  normal  35-mm  perforated  film,  many  types  of 
photographic  recording  processes  employ  35-mm  film  which  is 
not  perforated  and,  therefore,  could  only  be  processed  on  a  machine 
of  this  type  -  or  by  individual  rack-and-tank  methods.  The  machine 
is  fitted  with  racks,  the  general  principles  of  which  are  similar  to 
those  described  previously  -  it  will  be  seen  from  Figure  48  that  the 
difference  lies  in  the  method  by  which  these  racks  are  driven. 

The  rollers  in  this  machine  which  correspond  to  the  top  bank  of 
rollers  in  other  machines,  and  over  which  the  film  is  carried,  are 
mounted  on  shafts  seen  at  'A',  and  it  must  be  remembered  that  all 
these  rollers  are  exactly  alike  and  none  are  fitted  with  sprocket 
teeth.  The  lower  rollers,  shown  at  'F',  are  similar  in  design  to  those 
previously  described.  The  drive  to  the  top  rollers  is  via  a  chain  'B\ 
from  a  sprocket  wheel  *C\  This  sprocket  wheel  is  mounted  on  a 
short  spindle  to  the  opposite  end  of  which  is  attached  a  large 
flanged  pulley  wheel  *D\  This  pulley  is  driven  by  an  endless  belt 
shown  between  the  pulley  and  the  weighted  roller  'E\  It  is  the 
adjustment  of  the  contact  between  the  belt  and  pulley  'D\  by 
pressure  from  roller  *E',  which  controls  the  speed  at  which  the 
film  rollers  rotate. 

This  adjustment  can  only  be  effected  by  the  one  variable  in  the 
design,  namely,  the  distance  between  the  top  and  bottom  rollers 
in  the  racks.  It  will  be  helpful  to  remember  that,  in  this  design, 
the  film  will  become  loose  in  a  rack  not  because  the  rack  preceding 
it  is  feeding  the  film  in  at  high  speed,  but  because  the  rack  following 
it  is  not  taking  film  out  fast  enough.  Similarly,  film  will  become  very 
tight  in  any  rack  because  the  following  rack  is  taking  film  too 
rapidly,  and  not  because  the  preceding  rack  is  not  supplying  film 
at  a  sufficiently  high  speed. 

The  lower  racks  *F\  Figure  48,  are  each  supplied  with  a  thin 
vertical  rod  'G',  which  passes  through  the  top  of  the  rack  frame- 
work. The  upper  section  of  this  rod  is  fitted  with  a  compression 


102 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  48. — Principle  of  the  "tendency  drive". 

spring  'H',  which  bears  on  arm  T.  The  tension  imparted  to  arm 
T  may  be  varied  by  adjusting  the  knob  'K'-Arm  T  is  seen  to 
be  part  of  the  control  mechanism  attached  to  the  adjacent  rack. 
In  order  to  follow  its  use  more  closely  let  us  observe  the  action 
step  by  step. 

If  the  lower  rack  in  the  first  unit  rises,  it  will  indicate  that  the 
second  rack  is  taking  film  from  the  first  rack  at  a  higher  speed  than 
the  first  rack  is  receiving  it.  However,  since  such  a  condition  will 
cause  the  lower  rack  to  rise,  rod  'G'  will  also  rise  and  the  spring 
tension  will  be  taken  off  arm  T.  The  arm  'J'  will  then  rotate, 
about  bearing  'L',  in  a  clockwise  direction  and  will  lift  arm  'M\ 
It  will  be  clear  that,  as  arm  'M'  rises,  the  tension  on  the  drive  to 
the  second  rack  is  reduced,  and,  because  of  this,  the  film  will  not  be 
taken  so  rapidly  from  the  first  rack. 

Let  us  now  see  what  will  happen  if  the  tension  on  the  drive  to 
the  second  rack  has  been  reduced  more  than  necessary.  The  lower 
rack  in  the  first  assembly  will  fall  to  its  lowest  position,  and,  since 


PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT  103 

in  the  initial  threading,  all  the  racks  are  loaded  to  a  position  a 
few  inches  above  the  lower  extremity,  this  will  cause  the  spring 
'H'  to  pull  arm  'J'  downwards.  This  anti-clockwise  motion  on 
arm  'J'  will  increase  the  drive  to  the  second  rack  and  so  increase 
the  speed  at  which  the  film  is  removed  from  the  first  rack. 

Obviously,  a  balanced  condition  will  eventually  be  reached  in 
which  the  tension  drive  to  each  rack  has  been  automatically 
adjusted  to  bring  it  in  line  with  the  neighbouring  racks.  The  third 
lever  on  each  tension  adjusting  assembly  is  merely  to  provide  a 
counter-weight  to  the  mass  of  the  roller  'E'. 

Methods  of  Developer  Agitation 

One  of  the  major  problems  with  the  early  continuous  processing 
machinery  was  to  obtain  uniform  development.  Naturally,  if  the 
film  were  to  move  through  a  static  developing  solution,  a  con- 
dition known  as  'developer  drag'  (see  later  chapters)  would  be 
created  and  very  uneven  photographic  densities  would  result. 
This  is  because  very  localised  amounts  of  developer  would  more 
or  less  remain  with  the  film  during  its  passage  through  the  solution, 
would  become  exhausted  and  would  have  a  reaction  upon  neigh- 
bouring portions  of  both  film  and  developer. 

This  type  of  'directional  effect'  can  be  overcome  by  employing 
agitation  in  the  solutions  to  prevent  exhausted  pockets  of  developer 
remaining  with  any  one  portion  of  film.  Agitation  merely  by 
pumping  solutions  through  the  bath  is  sometimes  inefficient  and 
many  modern  machines  use  some  form  of  developer  spray. 

For  example,  in  the  Spoor-Thompson  processing  machine,  only 
the  lower  rollers  in  the  developing  racks  are  actually  immersed 
in  solution,  but  fine  jets  of  developer  are  sprayed  onto  the  strands 
of  film  as  they  pass  through  the  racks.  Other  modifications  are  to 
insert  a  pipe  carrying  a  series  of  jets  into  the  base  of  the  solution 
tank  and  to  spray  the  solution  'through  itself  -  this  creates  a 
very  high  degree  of  agitation  and  also  maintains  a  good  solution 
level  covering  the  main  body  of  the  film  racks 

Film  Squeegees 

In  the  'demonstration  model'  we  have  discussed  the  use  of 
compressed  air  jets  to  squeegee  the  surplus  water  from  the  film 
before  it  enters  the  drying  compartment.  Surplus  water  is  also 
sometimes  removed  by  using  rubber  squeegees  to  mechanically 
press  the  water  from  the  film  although,  of  course,  there  is  always 
the  chance  of  scratching  the  film  if  foreign  matter  should  become 
lodged  within  the  rubber  'jaws'  of  the  squeegee. 


104  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Another  ingenious  system  is  to  pass  the  film  through  a  large 
bath  of  mercury.  The  weight  of  the  mercury  pushing  against  the 
film  will  then  force  the  water  away  from  it  at  the  point  where 
the  film  enters  the  mercury.  Unfortunately  a  very  considerable 
volume  of  mercury  is  necesssary  for  this  system  to  operate 
successfully. 

Those  readers  well  acquainted  with  processing  equipment  will 
realise  that  the  foregoing  descriptions  have  been  intentionally 
academic  and  mainly  intended  to  demonstrate  principles.  After 
much  thought  this  was  felt  to  be  the  more  generally  useful 
approach  to  the  subject  since  full  details  of  such  well  known 
equipments  as  the  Debrie  and  Houston  Daylight  Processing 
machines,  or  the  Kodak,  R.C.A.  and  Debrie  High  Speed  machines 
are  readily  available  in  the  trade  journals. 

For  similar  reasons  no  details  have  been  given  of  the  various 
methods  employed  by  some  laboratories  in  the  recovery  of  silver 
liberated  into  the  fixing  solution.  As  will  be  realised,  particularly 
when  the  processing  of  sound  tracks  alone  is  considered,  the 
amount  of  silver  made  available  for  recovery  is  very  considerable. 
A  brief  outline  of  some  of  the  more  usual  methods  employed  for 
this  purpose  will  be  found  in  Chapter  4. 


CHAPTER  4 


PROCESSING 
MOTION    PICTURE    FILM- 
QUALITY    CONTROL    AND 
SENSITOMETRY 


Although  continuous  processing  machinery  has  greatly  improved 
the  general  quality  and  reproducibility  of  motion  picture  labora- 
tory work,  many  possible  causes  of  trouble  still  exist.  That  they  are 
not  seen  more  frequently  on  the  screen  is  a  tribute  to  the  high 
standard  of  maintenance  exercised  in  modern  laboratories. 

The  following  notes  on  the  probable  causes  of  the  majority  of 
these  difficulties  are  only  intended  to  be  a  rough  guide  to  emphasise 
the  need  for  great  care  when  handling  motion  picture  film,  and 
also  to  serve  as  an  introduction  to  production  quality  control. 
They  have  been  arranged  in  alphabetical  order  for  convenience 
of  reference:  - 

aerial  fog.  Caused  when  developer,  usually  that  containing  hydro- 
quinone,  is  carried  by  film  in  loops  through  the  processing  machine  so 
that  portions  of  the  film  are  exposed  to  air.  Aerial  fog  may  be  eliminated 
in  most  cases  by  adding  0  -0002  %  pinakryptol-green  to  the  developing 
solution  or  0-0004%  to  the  wash  water  prior  to  development  if  such 
a  preliminary  bath  is  employed. 

Am  bells.  Small  undeveloped  areas  in  continuously  processed  films 
can  be  caused  by  'air  bells'  or  small  pockets  of  air  being  carried  down 
into  the  solution  as  the  dry  film  enters  the  first  processing  tank.  These 
pockets  of  air  are  more  or  less  circular  in  shape  and,  unless  some  means 
are  employed  to  remove  them  from  the  film,  will  prevent  the  developer 
from  reaching  those  areas  of  the  emulsion  over  which  they  exist.  The 
area  so  affected  may  be  completely  transparent  or  any  degree  of  density, 
dependent  upon  the  stage  of  processing  at  which  the  air  was  removed,  or 
whether  it  remained  in  contact  with  the  film  throughout  development. 
With  continuous  machines  this  defect  is  almost  always  caused  by 

105 


106 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


using  developer  which  is  partially  exhausted  and,  in  consequence,  is 
inclined  to  produce  a  foam  at  the  surface.  Several  'anti-foam'  solutions 
are  available  to  prevent  this  happening  before  the  end  of  the  useful 
life  of  the  developer  is  reached.  Such  solutions  may  not  be  wholly 
effective  if  excessive  agitation  is  obtained  by  an  aerating  system.  Should 
the  film  become  contaminated  with  grease  or  oil  development  over 
those  areas  affected  will  also  be  retarded  and  a  similar  result  will  be 
produced. 

blistering.  If  the  gelatin  enters  the  fixing  bath  in  a  very  soft  condition 
it  is  possible  that  the  sodium  carbonate  of  the  developer,  as  it  is  neutral- 
ised by  the  acid  in  the  fixer,  will  produce  sufficient  carbon  dioxide  gas 
to  cause  blisters,  or  minute  depressions.  This  can  also  occur  when  the 
fixer  is  too  acid  or  when  the  rinsing  water  is  insufficient  between  develop- 
ment and  fixation.  The  trouble  is  most  likely  when  the  hardening 
properties  of  the  bath  are  poor  and  the  atmospheric  conditions  are 
unduly  hot. 

broken  splices.  If  the  operation  of  the  splicing  mechanism  and  also 
the  processing  machine  'tracking'  have  been  checked,  it  is  still  possible 
that  splices  will  tend  to  break  more  readily  if  the  film  encounters 
severe  temperature  changes  on  passing  through  the  successive  solutions 
and  drying  compartments. 

cinch  marks.  These  intermittent,  abrupt  markings  which  may  occur 
both  on  the  emulsion  and  base-side  of  the  film  are  caused  when  friction 
is  produced  between  neighbouring  convolutions  of  film  as  it  is  wound 
onto  or  away  from  the  parent  roll.  The  defect  may  occur  in  picture  or 
sound  recording  cameras,  processing  machines,  printers,  rewind 
benches,  editing  machines,  etc.  Marks  across  the  film  may  also  occur, 
particularly  when  single-sided  rewind  plates  are  used  and  the  film  is 
permitted  to  wind  up  in  an  uneven  manner. 

developer  stain.  This  usually  occurs  when  partially  exhausted  developer 
or  obviously  discoloured  developer  is  retained  in  use.  It  may  also  be 
expected  when  the  sulphite  content  becomes  too  low. 

directional  effect.  This  more  common  defect  is  shown  in  Figure  49 
and  is  almost  entirely  confined  to  continuous  processing  machinery. 
When  film  enters  the  machine  the  leading  edge  will  come  into  contact 
with  relatively  fresh  solution,  whereas  the  reaction  products  caused  by 
developing  this  leading  portion  will  pass  to  the  film  which  is  to  follow 
it  -  thereby  restraining  the  development  over  succeeding  regions.  Because 


Fig.  49. — Directional  effect  -  a  processing  defect 


PROCESSING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  107 

of  this,  a  film  bearing  an  even  exposure  throughout  its  length  may  have 
a  heavier  density  at  its  leading  edge  than  at  the  trailing  edge.  The 
effect  is  most  marked  with  films  containing  very  contrasty  subjects,  such 
as  the  example  shown,  since  the  developer  which  comes  into  immediate 
contact  with  the  film  is  carried  downwards  with  it  to  some  extent. 
That  is  to  say,  the  film  is  not  able  to  cut  a  clean  path  through  the 
developer,  but  must  drag  some  of  the  solution  along  with  it.  The 
ability  to  develop  neighbouring  areas  to  an  equal  extent  will  therefore 
depend  upon  the  amount  of  work  the  solution  is  required  to  perform. 
In  the  example,  the  number  has  been  fully  developed  out  and  such 
development  has  left  the  solution  temporarily  exhausted  over  this 
region  and,  therefore,  reduced  its  ability  to  develop  the  background 
immediately  following  that  number.  Directional  effect  may  be  reduced 
by  increasing  the  rate  of  developer  circulation,  avoiding  any  film  path 
in  the  horizontal  direction,  maintaining  fresh  solutions  and,  should  it 
be  necessary,  introducing  stationary  rubber  squeegees  at  points  through- 
out the  bath  to  mechanically  wipe  away  the  exhausted  solutions  although 
fortunately,  this  last  preventative  will  only  need  to  be  used  in  very 
rare  and  severe  cases. 

drying  troubles.  If  the  film  is  dried  too  rapidly  or  excessively  it  will 
not  contain  sufficient  moisture  to  maintain  a  flexible  condition  and 
will  become  brittle.  This  condition  may  cause  the  film  to  roll  up  on  the 
take-up  core  in  a  very  irregular  manner  and  tend  to  form  itself  into  a 
hexagonal  shape.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  film  is  dried  in  an  atmo- 
sphere of  high  humidity,  it  will  be  rolled  up  very  freely  but,  on  coming 
into  contact  with  normal  humidities  of  other  rooms  and  whilst  still  in 
the  rolled  state,  it  may  become  buckled  along  its  length.  This  occurs 
because  the  moisture  contained  in  the  film  is  only  able  to  escape  from 
the  edges  of  the  roll  and,  consequently,  the  centre  of  the  film  (viewed 
along  its  length)  remains  at  a  higher  relative  humidity  and  will  there- 
fore tend  to  maintain  a  greater  length  than  the  edges  of  the  roll. 

failure  to  harden.  This  may  be  due  to  excess  acid  or  sulphite  content 
in  the  fixing  solution,  to  a  low  alum  content  or  to  the  use  of  wrongly 
compounded  alum.  Under  such  conditions  the  amount  of  alum,  acid 
and  sulphite  in  the  solution  should  be  carefully  checked. 

ftxer  scum.  This  is  usually  produced  when  the  fixer  is  somewhat 
exhausted  and  has  not  been  used  for  some  days;  under  such  conditions 
the  hydrogen  sulphide  in  the  atmosphere  reacts  with  the  silver  thio- 
sulphate  in  the  solution  and  produces  a  metallic-like  surface  scum  on 
the  liquid.  The  scum  should  be  drawn  off  the  surface  of  the  solution 
before  it  is  again  fit  for  use. 

fker  stain.  The  precipitation  of  sulphur  on  the  gelatin  will  produce 
a  yellowish  stain  and  indicates  that  the  fixer  has  not  been  correctly 
made  up  -  is  usually  too  acid  or  lacking  in  sulphite.  Similar  results 
are  produced  when  the  fixer  is  operated  at  a  temperature  considerably 
above  normal. 

fogging.  (General  Notes).  As  most  people  are  aware,  'fogging'  is  a 
term  used  to  describe  any  density  which  appears  in  the  developed  film 
and  is  not  a  direct  result  of  intentional  exposure.  Any  photographic 
emulsion  will  tend  to  fog  if  it  is  kept  for  a  considerable  time  before  use  - 


108  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

this  tendency  is  usually  most  noticeable  with  highly  sensitive  or  fast 
emulsions  and,  for  all  types  of  emulsions,  is  greatly  increased  by  storage 
in  over-heated  vaults  or  in  a  moist  atmosphere.  Many  chemical  fumes 
are  also  known  to  attack  unexposed  film  and,  for  these  reasons,  it  is  usual 
for  laboratories  to  order  their  supply  of  film  in  regular  and  frequent 
intervals,  rather  than  to  take  very  large  stocks  and  to  hold  them  in 
store  for  any  great  length  of  time.  Modern  storage  vaults  are  held  to 
the  most  suitable  temperature  and  humidity  by  closely  controlled  air- 
conditioning  plants  which  are  now  a  standard  feature  of  printing  and 
processing  laboratories.  Fogging  may  also  be  caused  after  the  normal 
camera  exposure  and  during  the  development  if  the  developing  solution 
is  unsuitable  for  the  material,  if  it  contains  certain  impurities  or 
if  it  so  happens  that  the  processing  machine  lifts  the  film  above  the 
level  of  the  solution,  and  so  exposes  it  to  the  air,  for  any  appreciable 
time.  Obviously,  fogging  may  also  occur  if  the  safe-lighting  in  the 
dark-room  is  inadequate  for  the  type  of  emulsion  which  is  being 
handled.  Fogging  due  to  the  developing  solution  is  rarely  encountered 
when  recommended  formulae  are  used,  but  it  may  occur  if  the  solution 
is  only  used  at  intervals  over  a  long  period  or  if  it  is  used  at  temperatures 
above  70°F.  The  use  of  unsuitable  materials,  either  in  the  processing 
machine  or  in  the  chemical  mixing  equipment,  such  as  copper,  brass, 
solder,  galvanised  pails  or  red  rubber  hose  (which  may  be  used  to  convey 
the  chemicals  from  the  mixing  room  to  the  processing  machine)  are  all 
to  be  avoided  since  any  one  will  cause  fogging  during  the  developing 
process. 

green  stains.  These  are  usually  produced  when  a  stop-bath  containing 
chrome-alum  is  employed.  The  degree  of  staining  depends  upon  the 
amount  of  carbonate  and  sulphite  in  the  developer  and  the  activity  or 
concentration  of  the  chrome-alum  in  the  stop-bath.  Such  stains  can  be 
removed  by  immersing  the  film  in  a  5  %  solution  of  potassium  hydroxide. 

reticulation.  Unless  all  the  solutions  through  which  the  film  passes 
are  kept  at  approximately  equal  temperatures,  the  emulsion  may  tend 
to  wrinkle  on  passing  from  one  solution  to  the  next.  This  effect  is 
known  as  'reticulation',  and  is  rarely  encountered  in  machines  in  which 
solution  temperatures  are  thermostatically  controlled.  Although  film 
may  be  processed  in  machines  which  are  not  fitted  with  thermostats  to 
control  the  temperature,  they  should  have  some  other  equally  efficient 
system  to  ensure  that  the  temperature  of  each  solution  is  kept  within 
very  close  limits. 

rollers  sticking.  The  use  of  incorrect  materials  or,  of  course,  poor 
mechanical  fitting,  may  result  in  parts  of  the  processing  machine  becom- 
ing stiff  or  even  seizing  up.  This  can  usually  be  freed  by  cleaning  the 
affected  parts  in  dilute  hydrochloric  acid  (1  %  solution)  followed  by  a 
neutralising  wash  in  1%  sodium  carbonate  and,  finally,  a  thorough 
wash  in  running  water. 

scratches.  Foreign  particles,  particularly  in  the  washing  system, 
squeegees,  etc.,  will  cause  scratches  on  continuously  processed  films. 
Where  the  water  supply  is  suspected  all  inlets  should  be  fitted  with 
efficient  water  filters  and  these  should  be  inspected  and  changed  at 
frequent  intervals. 


PROCESSING   MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  109 

scum.  This  is  usually  the  product  of  the  fixing  salts  brought  by  the 
film  into  the  washing  water  and  some  colloidal  materials  in  the  water 
itself.  Spray  washing  installations  are,  therefore,  free  from  these  defects. 
In  those  machines  using  tank  washing  it  is  possible  to  arrange  for  the 
wash  water  to  overflow  from  the  tank,  through  holes  or  unions  to  a 
pipe  system  beyond  the  machine,  and  thus  to  carry  the  scum-forming 
products  with  it. 

sludge  in  developer.  This  is  most  severe  with  developers  containing 
borax,  and  consists  mainly  of  dissolved  gelatin  and  silver.  Under 
normal  operating  conditions  the  sludge  should  not  become  great 
enough  to  cause  staining  before  the  useful  life  of  the  developer  has 
been  exhausted. 

sludge  in  fixer.  When  this  occurs  on  mixing  the  solution,  or  a  very 
short  time  after  mixing  it,  this  will  be  due  to  bad  mixing  and  the  bath 
should  be  analysed.  Such  deposits  are  immediately  recognisable  as 
differing  from  the  normal  accumulation  expected  in  a  partially  exhausted 
bath  of  some  age. 

spots.  (Drying).  Drying  spots  or  marks  are  usually  caused  by  inefficient 
squeegees  or  air  blowers  combined  with  the  use  of  very  cold  wash- 
water.  Even  when  the  squeegees  are  operating  satisfactorily  very  cold 
water  may  harden  the  film  and  so  make  it  impossible  for  the  squeegee 
to  evenly  distribute  the  very  thin  layer  of  moisture  it  must  leave  on  the 
emulsion  surface.  Wash-water  should  not  fall  below  50°F  (10°C). 

staining.  Seldom  produced  as  local  stains  over  small  areas,  but  general 
staining  may  be  caused  if  the  solutions  are  used  after  they  become 
exhausted.  Because  of  this  it  is  more  usual  to  find  positive  rather  than 
negative  films  stained  since  the  solution  used  to  process  positive  copies 
is  more  likely  to  remain  in  use  after  it  has  ceased  to  function  satisfact- 
orily. If  the  washing,  or  stop  bath,  between  the  developing  and  fixing 
solutions  is  not  adequate  local  staining  may  occur  over  those  areas 
where  developing  solution  has  remained  after  the  film  has  passed  into 
the  fixing  solution. 

static  marks.  These  are  exposures  made  on  raw  stock,  usually  during 
unwinding,  by  an  electrical  discharge  (often  a  clearly  visible  spark) 
between  the  convolutions  of  the  film.  It  may  be  caused  by  very  rapid 
unwinding  or  by  excessive  tension.  The  more  common  it  becomes  the 
greater  is  the  indication  that  the  prevailing  humidity  is  incorrect.  All 
film-handling  apparatus  should  be  housed  in  rooms  maintained  between 
60  and  70%  relative  humidity. 

streaks.  These  may  be  caused  if  the  solutions  are  not  agitated  suffici- 
ently. It  may  be  overcome  by  circulating  the  developer  at  a  rate  high 
enough  to  eliminate  the  streaks  but  not  sufficient  to  cause  foaming.  A 
similar  cure  can  be  partially  effected,  where  possible,  by  increasing  the 
speed  at  which  the  film  travels  through  the  machine. 

sulphide  fog.  Bacteria  or  fungi  present  in  a  developing  solution  will 
cause  the  sodium  sulphite  to  be  reduced  to  sulphide  and  so  produce 
fogging.  This  will  not  normally  occur  when  a  developer  is  in  constant 
use  and,  indeed,  may  be  cured  from  one  which  has  been  standing  for 


110  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

some  time  by  developing  a  quantity  of  waste  film  -  thus  removing  the 
excess  sulphide  which  has  collected  whilst  the  developer  was  out  of 
use.  Sulphide  fog  may  be  eliminated  if  the  solution  container  is 
sterilized  with  sodium  hypochlorite  before  use. 

uneven  development.  Continuous  streaks,  parallel  to  the  films'  travel 
through  the  machine,  usually  suggest  poor  solution  circulation  and  can 
be  eliminated  by  increasing  the  agitation  and,  if  possible,  the  speed  of 
the  film  through  the  machine.  The  introduction  of  agitation  by  air 
bubbles  is  also  found  to  be  effective  in  some  cases. 

yellow  stains.  When  these  are  fairly  transparent  and  'clean'  they  are 
usually  caused  by  developer  oxidation  but,  when  darker  and  dirty  in 
colour,  they  are  caused  by  silver  left  in  the  film  due  to  inadequate  fixing. 

Functions  of  the  Processing  Solutions 

From  the  foregoing  very  brief  survey  of  some  of  the  possible 
troubles  which  may  occur  as  the  film  passes  through  the  solutions, 
it  will  be  apparent  that  two  main  systems  of  control  must  be  applied 
if  continuously  high  quality  results  are  to  be  achieved.  The  first  of 
these  concerns  the  analysis  of  the  processing  conditions  as  they 
vary  throughout  the  useful  life  of  the  developer  and  the  second, 
which  is  only  possible  after  the  first  has  been  established,  concerns 
the  adjustment  of  the  developing  conditions  to  maintain  a  rela- 
tively constant  condition. 

The  analysis  of  processing  conditions  is  made  by  a  system  of 
production  control  known  as  Sensitometry  and  will  be  discussed 
in  detail  at  a  later  stage.  Assuming  for  the  moment  that  such 
control  is  available,  it  is  obviously  necessary  to  provide  the 
means  to  hold  the  developing  conditions  stable.  Because  of  this 
a  system  of  developer  replenisher  is  used  whereby  a  known  quantity 
of  exhausted  developer  may  be  removed  from  the  solution  and 
replaced  by  a  proportionate  amount  of  fresh  concentrated  're- 
plenisher'. The  amount  of  solution  which  is  intentionally  removed 
from  the  bath  does  not  represent  the  total  amount  by  which  the 
original  quantity  has  been  reduced.  A  certain  amount  of  developer 
will  usually  be  carried  over  by  the  film  from  the  developing  bath 
into  the  rinse  bath  and,  naturally,  this  quantity  must  also  be 
determined  and  replaced. 

Once  the  quantity  lost  due  to  'carry-over'  from  one  tank  to 
the  next  and  the  amount  of  replenisher  necessary  to  overcome 
exhaustion  has  been  determined  -  by  experimental  observation 
over  a  period  of  constant  machine  conditions  and  also  by  chemical 
analysis  of  the  solutions  -it  is  then  usual  practice  to  calculate  an 
average  rate  of  flow  at  which  the  replenisher  should  be  introduced 
into  the  main  solution.  It  is  obviously  desirable  for  replenishment 


PROCESSING   MOTION   PICTURE  FILM  111 

to  be  a  continuous  operation  and,  once  the  average  rate  is  known, 
small  changes  from  this  quantity  can  be  made  according  to  the 
amount  of  work  handled  by  the  machine  and  as  indicated  by 
periodic  tests  put  through  the  bath  with  the  normal  work. 

Developing  Solutions 

Before  leaving  the  question  of  developer  action  it  is  necessary  to 
establish  the  basic  requirements  which  any  developer  must  meet 
and  to  mention  the  chemicals  most  usually  employed  for  this 
purpose.  The  main  function  of  any  developer  is  that  of  reacting 
with  the  exposed  silver  bromide  grains  in  such  a  manner  that 
metallic  silver  is  formed.  The  'reducing  agent'  used  for  this 
purpose  is  usually  a  coal-tar  derivative  such  as  Metol  (also  known 
as  Elon)  but  since  this  agent  would,  of  itself,  take  a  very  long  time 
to  complete  the  reaction,  it  is  necessary  to  add  a  second  chemical 
to  accelerate  reduction.  The  chemical  used  for  this  purpose 
is  usually  an  alkali  such  as  sodium  carbonate  or  caustic  soda. 
It  is  important  to  remember  that,  whilst  the  speed  of  the  reaction 
is  largely  controlled  by  the  strength  of  this  accelerator,  so  also  is 
the  final  grain  size  of  the  processed  film.  Since  a  considerable 
surface  area  of  solution  is  usually  exposed  to  the  surrounding  air, 
oxidation  will  quickly  take  place  unless  some  preservative  is 
included  in  the  bath  and,  for  this  purpose,  Sodium  sulphite  is 
usually  added.  Finally,  it  is  usual  to  control  the  reaction  by  adding 
a  slight  restrainer,  such  as  potassium  bromide,  the  actual  pro- 
portion of  this  addition  being  controlled  by  the  type  of  film  for 
which  the  developer  is  designed  and  the  results  which  are  required 
from  such  film. 

Developer  Circulation 

As  we  have  already  discovered,  several  defects  such  as  air-bells, 
directional  effect,  etc.,  are  usually  attributed  to  poor  developer 
circulation.  For  this  reason  most  processing  equipment  includes 
either  a  developer  circulating  pump  or  some  form  of  compressed 
air  system  with  which  to  agitate  the  solution.  For  similar  reasons 
it  is  necessary  to  maintain  the  solutions  at  a  constant  temperature  - 
either  by  thermostatically  controlled  immersion  heaters  actually 
within  the  solution  tanks  themselves  or  similar  devices  situated 
within  the  re-circulating  system. 

Unless  carefully  controlled,  a  developer  circulating  or  agitating 
system  may  cause  more  trouble  than  that  which  it  is  designed  to 
overcome.  Mention  has  been  made  previously  of  certain  'anti- 
foam'  solutions  which  are  available  to  prevent  foaming  at  the 


112  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

surface  of  partially  exhausted  solutions  but,  if  the  circulation  is 
very  active  or,  more  particularly,  if  it  is  of  the  type  which  is  created 
by  an  aerating  system,  'anti-foam'  solutions  may  be  rendered  use- 
less. On  the  other  hand,  reducing  the  degree  of  agitation  below  a 
given  level  will  almost  certainly  lead  to  the  appearance  of  'direc- 
tional effects'  and,  therefore,  careful  adjustment  is  necessary  to 
obtain  adequate  circulation  and  without  permitting  any  of  these 
defects  to  occur. 

The  Rinse  or  'Stop'  Bath 

Passing  from  the  developing  solution  the  film  is  normally  fed 
into  a  'stop'  bath,  designed  to  arrest  any  further  action  by  the 
developer  and  to  remove  that  developer  which  is  carried  over 
into  this  bath  by  the  film  itself.  If  this  bath  is  not  functioning 
correctly  it  may  be  possible  for  small  quantities  of  developer  to 
remain  in  contact  with  the  film  and  to  pass  with  it  into  the  fixing 
solution.  If  this  occurs  it  is  most  likely  that  local  staining  over 
these  areas  will  result  and,  in  consequence,  it  is  quite  common  to 
find  mechanical  squeegees  fitted  at  the  inlet  and  outlet  to  each  tank 
so  that  any  surplus  solution  will  be  removed  before  the  film  passes 
from  one  tank  to  the  next.  Although  such  devices  are  undoubtedly 
a  safeguard,  it  is  very  necessary  that  they  should  receive  constant 
attention  to  ensure  that  no  small  particles  of  dirt  or  grit  become 
embedded  in  the  wiping  blades  and  thus  become  a  possible  source 
of  scratching  to  any  film  subsequently  passed  through  them. 

Apart  from  this  arresting  of  the  developing  process,  a'stop'bath 
also  prolongs  the  life  of  the  fixing  solution  by  preventing  its 
contamination  by  developer.  If,  instead  of  being  a  simple  rinse 
bath,  this  solution  contains  a  hardening  agent,  such  as  chrome 
alum,  it  is  possible  to  harden  the  gelatin  to  a  greater  extent  than 
is  obtainable  if  the  hardening  agent  is  incorporated  within  the 
fixing  solution.  This  is  mainly  due  to  the  fact  that  the  hardening 
takes  place  immediately  after  the  development  and  when  the  film 
has  only  been  in  solution  for  a  relatively  short  time  and,  therefore, 
has  not  become  excessively  swollen. 

It  is  sometimes  only  possible  to  use  a  short  rinse  bath  between 
the  developing  and  fixing  operations  which,  although  it  may  be 
sufficient  to  arrest  the  action  of  the  developer,  may  not  provide 
sufficient  time  for  the  hardening  operation  to  be  completed.  Under 
such  circumstances  the  hardening  and  fixing  solutions  must  be 
combined  and,  if  processing  is  maintained  at  normal  temperatures, 
the  degree  of  hardening  obtained  will  be  quite  adequate.  When 
processing  is  carried  out  at  temperatures  above  normal,  and  when 


PROCESSING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  113 

rapid  drying  is  essential,  it  is  then  advisable  to  complete  the 
hardening  operation  within  the  rinse  bath  and  before  fixation 
commences.  When  such  an  arrangement  is  possible  the  speed  of 
drying  will  be  greatly  increased  by  the  more  efficient  hardening  thus 
obtained. 

Normal  practice  is  to  mix  a  suitable  quantity  of  hardening 
and  rinsing  solution  and  to  use  this  without  agitation  or  circulation 
until  it  either  becomes  exhausted  or  too  contaminated  to  be 
of  further  use.  If  hardening  is  not  carried  out  in  the  rinse  bath  it  is 
obviously  convenient  to  maintain  a  continuous  flow  of  water 
through  this  bath  when,  of  course,  its  replacement  becomes 
automatic.  However,  some  laboratories  favour  the  practice  of 
passing  the  final  washing  water  (after  the  fixing  bath)  back  through 
this  rinse  bath  and  then  to  the  main  drainage  system.  In  this  manner 
the  rinse  water  is  maintained  slightly  acidic  due  to  the  carry-over 
of  the  fixing  solution. 

The  Fixing  Solution 

From  the  rinse  or  'stop'  bath  the  film  passes  into  the  fixing 
solution  where  the  unexposed  and  undeveloped  silver  bromide 
grains  are  removed.  In  this  process  silver  passes  into  solution  in 
the  fixer  and,  as  its  concentration  increases,  slows  down  the  rate 
at  which  the  emulsion  'clears'.  Moreover,  since  the  water  carried 
into  this  tank  by  the  film  and  from  the  rinse  bath  will  dilute  the 
fixer,  the  clearing  time  will  be  further  prolonged  as  the  quantity 
of  film  passed  through  the  solution  increases. 

Many  systems  employ  two  or  more  independent  fixing  tanks 
through  which  the  film  passes.  This  has  the  advantage  that  only 
that  solution  into  which  the  film  first  enters  on  leaving  the  rinse 
bath  will  become  completely  exhausted  and,  when  this  occurs, 
the  succeeding  bath  is  still  comparatively  fresh  and  may  be  used  to 
replace  the  first  bath.  The  second  bath  is  then  refilled  with  new 
solution  so  that,  in  effect,  new  solution  is  always  introduced  into 
the  final  fixing  stage,  whilst  partially  used  solution  always  replaces 
the  exhausted  fixer  in  the  first  stage. 

Where  hardening  is  also  carried  out  in  the  fixing  operation, 
and  more  than  one  fixing  bath  are  used,  it  is  usually  possible  to 
maintain  adequate  hardening  in  the  final  bath  at  all  times  although 
the  hardening  properties  of  the  first  bath  may  become  weak  even 
before  the  bath  loses  its  fixing  properties.  Naturally,  the  actual  rate 
of  exhaustion  depends  largely  upon  the  average  nature  of  the  film 
which  is  being  processed.  For  example,  film  which  only  carries  a 
sound  track  will  exhaust  the  fixer  very  much  more  quickly  than 


114  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

film  which  carries  a  picture  record  since,  in  the  first  case,  almost 
all  the  emulsion  will  need  to  be  dissolved  into  the  solution. 

Silver  Recovery 

When  the  useful  life  of  a  fixing  bath  has  expired  it  will  obviously 
contain  most  of  that  silver  content  which  has  been  removed  from 
the  exposed  or  partially  exposed  portions  of  the  film  which  has 
passed  through  it.  This  dissolved  silver  can  be  recovered  quite 
easily  and,  if  the  quantities  involved  are  large,  such  a  course  is  very 
well  worth  while.  As  we  have  already  seen,  the  actual  silver  content 
of  these  baths  depends  upon  the  type  of  film  which  has  passed 
through  them;  it  also  depends  upon  the  amount  of  liquid  mech- 
anically 'carried  over'  from  this  bath  into  its  neighbours  and  so  on. 

There  are  several  methods  whereby  the  dissolved  silver  may  be 
precipitated,  the  choice  of  any  one  depending  largely  upon  the 
volume  of  liquid  to  be  handled  by  the  installation.  Zinc  in  powder, 
granular  or  sheet  form  may  be  used  to  precipitate  the  silver  in 
small  volumes -the  speed  of  the  operation  being  generally  slow 
and  in  the  order  given;  that  is,  sheet  zinc  is  the  slowest  of  all  three. 
The  operation  is  improved  if  the  bath  concerned  is  decidedly 
acid  -  should  tests  show  it  to  be  alkaline  it  is  advisable  to  add 
glacial  acetic  acid  to  the  bath  until  optimum  operating  conditions 
have  been  established  by  experiments  and  observations  of 
'samples'  taken  from  the  main  body  of  solution. 

When  large  quantities  of  exhausted  fixer  are  to  be  precipitated, 
sodium  sulphide  is  more  economical  and  certainly  more  speedy. 
When  used  with  an  acid  fixing  bath  the  solution  should  be  first 
neutralised  by  the  addition  of  caustic  soda  or  waste  developer  - 
if  this  is  not  done  very  unpleasant  fumes  of  hydrogen  sulphide 
will  be  liberated  during  the  process.  It  is  also  necesssary  to  carry 
out  such  work  at  some  distance  from  the  film  processing  labora- 
tories since  the  fumes  would  contaminate  the  developing  and  fixing 
solutions  normally  used  there. 

A  further  alternative  is  to  remove  silver  from  an  exhausted  bath 
by  electrolysis.  Metallic  silver  can  be  deposited  in  useful  form 
immediately  by  this  method,  but  the  conditions  of  control  and, 
particularly,  the  current  flowing  between  the  electrodes,  are  very 
critical.  Several  advantages  lie  in  using  this  method,  not  the  least 
being  that  the  exhausted  bath  may  be  treated  by  electrolysis,  the 
deposit  of  silver  removed  on  the  electrodes,  and  the  bath  returned 
into  service  for  some  considerable  time.  Complete  exhaustion 
only  occurs  when  the  bath  ceases  to  harden  the  film  satisfactorily  - 
a  quality  which  will  continue  much  longer  than  will  the  original 


PROCESSING  MOTION   PICTURE  FILM  115 

fixing  properties  of  the  bath.  These  remarks  do  not,  of  course, 
apply  when  film  such  as  Kodak  Type  5302  is  used  since  such 
material  can  be  processed  without  employing  an  hardening  agent. 

SENSITOMETRY 

So  far  we  have  considered  quality  only  from  the  point  of  view  of 
'good  processing  technique';  by  far  the  greater  concern  is,  of  course, 
the  maintenance  of  photographic  consistency  in  the  ultimate 
results.  From  the  knowledge  we  have  already  gained  concerning 
processing  equipment  and  camera  technique,  it  should  be  apparent 
that  consistently  good  quality  will  depend  upon  three  main 
factors.  Firstly,  the  film  manufacturers  must  be  able  to  supply 
the  camera-man  with  film  of  constant  photographic  speed,  that  is, 
film  which  exhibits  little  or  no  'batch-to-batch  variations'  so  that, 
for  example,  should  he  expose  it  to  an  evenly  illuminated  back- 
ground, he  could  expect  to  obtain  similar  densities  in  negatives 
made  from  all  batches  of  film.  If  any  speed  differences  or  needs 
for  modifying  the  processing  between  successive  batches  of  film 
do  exist,  then  some  means  of  measuring  such  differences  must  be 
available,  and  the  results  of  such  measurements  must  be  provided 
to  the  camera-man  and  in  a  manner  which  he  can  readily  interpret. 

To  obtain  these  conditions  also  requires  that  the  camera-man 
be  capable  of  understanding  the  system  used  by  the  stock  manu- 
facturers in  classifying  the  speed  and  other  characteristics  of  their 
products,  and  also  that  he  should  have  some  reliable  means  of 
measuring  the  illumination  of  the  scenes  he  is  to  photograph. 

In  the  past  amazing  results  have  been  produced  by  camera-men 
working  entirely  from  experience;  now-a-days  most  camera-men 
use  'exposure  meters'  to  measure  the  subject  brightness  and  to 
indicate  the  required  exposure  when  using  a  particular  film  of 
known  photographic  speed.  The  well  known  Weston  exposure 
meters  are  one  range  of  such  instruments  which  have  found  great 
popularity  amongst  studio  camera-men.  The  exposure  photometer 
distributed  by  Ilford  Limited  and  known  as  the  'S.E.I.'  instrument 
is  also  an  exceptionally  high  quality  meter  which,  having  a  photo- 
metric head,  is  capable  of  a  variety  of  uses  apart  from  exposure 
calculations  -  for  instance,  it  is  intended  for  use  in  measuring 
screen  brightness  and  light  transmissions  through  a  film  or  other 
translucent  media.  One  great  advantage  of  this  instrument  is  its 
ability  to  explore  very  small  areas  of  the  scene  -it  has  an  accept- 
ance angle  of  less  than  1°  so  that,  when  held  in  the  position  of 
the  camera,  and  not  close  up  to  the  scene  as  is  necessary  with  inte- 


116  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

grating  exposure  meters,  exceptionally  small  areas  may  be  measured 
and  precise  exposure  on  each  part  of  the  scene  can  be  forecast. 

The  next  point  which  must  be  covered  adequately  if  photogra- 
phic consistency  is  to  be  maintained  is,  naturally,  that  the  carefully 
exposed  film  shall  be  processed  in  the  laboratory  so  that  the 
anticipated  result  is  achieved.  This  requires  that  the  laboratory 
shall  be  able  to  measure  the  activity  of  their  processing  solutions, 
be  able  to  control  the  time  during  which  the  film  will  remain  in 
these  solutions,  and  keep  the  solution  temperatures  within  close 
limits.  Since  laboratories  receive  many  different  types  of  film  from 
different  studios  and,  indeed,  films  of  different  emulsion  speeds 
may  be  received  from  different  production  units  within  any  one 
studio,  it  is  necessary  for  the  laboratory  to  have  some  means  of 
testing  the  speed  of  these  films  before  the  studio  negatives  them- 
selves are  processed.  Clearly,  their  equipment  must  be  sufficiently 
flexible  to  permit  adjustments  to  the  developing  technique  in  order 
to  obtain  the  photographic  conditions  favoured  by  any  particular 
customer.  This  change  is  not  normally  very  big  in  picture  negatives 
but,  in  sound  recording,  considerable  differences  in  negative 
contrast  are  required  by  some  types  of  recording  and  will  depend 
largely  upon  the  equipment  with  which  the  prints  from  the  original 
sound  negatives  are  to  be  used. 

At  this  point  it  will  be  helpful  to  remember  the  many  inter- 
mediate steps  between  the  original  negatives  shot  on  the  studio 
floor  and  the  final  release  positive  prints  as  seen  in  the  cinemas, 
(see  Chapter  I). 

It  should  now  be  apparent  from  the  foregoing  brief  survey 
that  film  may  be  processed  under  a  variety  of  conditions  and  that, 
in  fact,  continuous  processing  machines  should  be  designed  to 
provide  the  greatest  possible  latitude  in  this  respect.  It  should  there- 
fore be  obvious  that,  to  harness  this  latitude  to  produce  the 
optimum  results  when  any  one  type  of  film  is  being  processed, 
some  form  of  control  must  be  employed  to  correlate  the  character- 
istics of  the  film  emulsion  with  those  of  the  developing  solutions 
and  machine  conditions. 

For  these  reasons  a  system  known  as  'Sensitometric  Control' 
has  been  applied  to  continuous  film  processing  although,  as  will 
become  apparent,  such  a  system  may  be  applied  to  any  mono- 
chrome photographic  process.  Broadly  speaking,  sensitometry 
is  the  study  of  the  following  characteristics  of  sensitive  emulsions 
and  processing  techniques  : — (a)  The  photographic  speed  of  the 
emulsion,  (b)  The  Gamma  or  contrast  which  may  be  obtained  with 
a  given  emulsion  under  known  processing  conditions,  (c)  The 


PROCESSING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  117 

ability  of  a  given  developing  solution  to  alter  the  gamma  produced 
with  any  particular  emulsion,  (d)  The  relationship  between  initial 
exposure,  final  density  and  processing  time. 

Density 

In  order  to  understand  fully  the  following  description  of  the 
sensitometric  control  process  it  is  necesssary  that  certain  terms  of 
reference  should  be  defined.  In  the  year  1890  Hurter  and  Driffield 
made  their  classical  experiments  which  established  the  relation- 
ship between  Density,  Opacity  and  Transmission.  The  term 
'Density*  refers  to  the  degree  of  blackness  produced  in  a  given 
emulsion  (to  coin  a  term,  it  may  be  described  as  the  'blacktitude'  of 
a  photographic  deposit).  If,  then,  a  known  amount  of  light  is 
directed  upon  a  processed  film  surface,  that  part  which  is  passed 
through  the  film  will  bear  a  relationship  to  the  'Density'  of  that 
film.  That  part  of  the  incident  light  which  is  lost  by  introducing 
into  the  beam  a  film  of  known  density  can  be  termed  the  'Opacity' 
whereas,  that  part  which  passes  through  the  film  can  be  termed  the 
'Transmission'.  It  is  therefore  obvious  that  the  Opacity  must  be 
the  reciprocal  of  the  Transmission.  The  'Transmission  Factor'  is 
the  quotient  obtained  when  the  amount  of  light  transmitted  through 
the  film  is  divided  by  the  amount  of  light  directed  upon  the  film 
to  cause  such  a  transmission. 

If,  for  example,  an  incident  beam  of  100  candle-power  is 
directed  onto  a  film  surface  which  carries  such  a  density  that  only 
10  candle-power  is  passed  through  it  to  a  measuring  instrument, 
the  'transmission  factor'  will  be  10  (the  transmitted  value  divided 
by  the  incident  value),  thus  the  transmission  factor  will  be  10  %. 

Now  it  has  been  previously  shown  that  Opacity  must  be  the 
reciprocal  of  Transmission  and,  therefore,  in  the  example  given, 
a  film  having  a  'transmission  factor'  of  10  %  must  have  an  Opacity 
equal  to  the  reciprocal  of  10% -or  of  100  divided  by  10 -that 
is,  it  must  have  an  Opacity  of  10.  Density  is  then  established  as 
the  'Logarithm  of  Opacity'  and,  in  this  case,  the  film  must  have  a 
Density  of  1  -0  since  the  logarithm  of  10  -  the  Opacity  -  is  unity. 
This  relationship  between  Density,  Opacity  and  Transmission  is 
very  important  and  will  be  clearly  understood  from  Figure  50. 
In  this  figure  section  'A'  indicates  values  of  incident  light  falling 
upon  a  processed  film  which  has  a  certain  density.  Section  'B' 
indicates  the  value  of  light  which  is  transmitted  through  the  film. 
Section  'C  indicates  the  'transmission  factor'  which,  as  has  just 
been  shown,  is  obtained  by  dividing  the  value  obtained  in  section 
'B'  by  that  given  in  section  'A'.  Section  'D'  indicates  the  Opacity 


118 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


A 

B 

c 

D 

E 

VALUE  OF  INCIDENT 
LIGHT  IN  CANDLE- 
POWER 

VALUE  OF  TRANSMITTED 
LIGHT  IN  CANDLE-POWER 

TRANSMISSION 
FACTOR  C^) 

OPACITY 

DENSfTY 
CLOG  OR4CITY) 

IOO 

IO 

I/O  -  o% 

on  -  o 

LOG  IO    -    1 

IOO 

1 

WOO  -    ^ 

ocyi  -do 

LOG  IOO  -  2 

IOOO 

1 

l/OOO-OI^ 

OOO/I-OOO 

LOG  IOOO -3 

OOO 

60 

60/000=6% 

00060=66 

LOG  6-6  =  f22 

Fig.  50. — Relationship  between  Density,  Opacity  and  Transmission. 


of  the  film  and,  since  this  must  be  the  reciprocal  of  the  Trans- 
mission, these  figures  are  obtained  by  dividing  the  value  given  in 
section  'A'  by  those  obtained  in  section  'B'.  Finally,  Density  is  the 
Logarithm  of  the  Opacity  and  is,  therefore,  the  logarithm  of  the 
values  obtained  in  section  'D'  -  these  values  of  Density  are  given 
in  section  'E\ 

The  foregoing  examples  have  assumed  that  certain  densities 
have  been  obtained  on  strips  of  film  and  also  that  instruments  are 
available  with  which  to  measure  the  value  of  light  both  before  and 
after  it  has  been  modified  by  introducing  these  densities  into  its 
beam.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  required  not  so  much  to  measure 
given  densities,  but  to  produce  densities  of  given  value,  a  relation- 
ship between  'exposure'  and  resultant  density  will  be  found  to 
exist.  This  relationship  can  be  forecast  to  some  extent  from 
Figure  50  since,  if  we  consider  the  first  two  cases  in  which  the 
incident  light  is  100  candle-power,  it  will  be  noticed  that  a  change 
in  density  from  1-0  to  2-0  occurs  when  the  amount  of  light 
transmitted  is  reduced  to  one-tenth.  It  is  therefore  reasonable  to 
assume  that  a  difference  in  density  amounting  to  1-0  could  be 
produced  if  one  exposure  had  been  made  ten  times  greater  than 
another.  (The  advanced  worker  will  realise  that,  at  this  point  we 
have  for  the  moment  assumed  the  film  carrying  these  exposures 
has  been  processed  to  a  Gamma  of  unity). 

Exposure 

However,  before  we  can  consider  these  possibilities,  it  is  necessary 
to  define  'exposure'.  Photographic  exposure  is  the  product  of  the 
Intensity  of  the  light  falling  upon  the  film  and  the  Time  during 


PROCESSING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  119 

which  such  light  is  permitted  to  operate.  At  one  time  it  was  thought 
that  photographic  exposure  obeyed  the  law  of  reciprocity  and  that 
a  high  intensity,  operating  for  a  short  period,  would  produce  a 
density  equal  to  that  obtained  when  a  correspondingly  low 
intensity  was  in  operation  for  a  long  period.  This  has  since  been 
proved  to  be  incorrect  and  it  is  now  established  that,  although  in 
both  cases  the  product  of  Intensity  and  Time  may  be  equal,  the 
resultant  densities  will  not  be  identical. 

In  attempting  to  expose  successive  pieces  of  film  so  that 
a  series  of  densities  may  be  produced  it  is  therefore  necessary 
to  decide  the  precise  manner  of  exposure  to  be  employed. 
Obviously,  an  exposure  may  be  of  long  duration  with  low  illumina- 
tion, or  short  duration  and  with  high  illumination  and,  therefore, 
the  type  of  exposure  given  when  testing  film  and  processing  con- 
ditions should  be  related  to  the  exposures  the  film  is  likely  to 
receive  under  practical  conditions.  Once  the  type  of  exposure  has 
been  fixed  it  is  necessary  to  decide  which  of  the  two  factors  shall  be 
maintained  constant  and  which  shall  be  varied  by  known  amounts. 
For  example,  it  is  possible  to  expose  film  so  that  successive  strips 
receive  increasing  exposures  either  by  maintaining  the  light 
intensity  at  a  constant  value  and  varying  the  time  of  exposure  or  by 
varying  the  intensity  of  the  light  and  maintaining  the  time  factor 
constant. 

Instruments  designed  to  give  precise  exposures  to  successive 
small  areas  on  a  length  of  film  are  known  as  'sensitometers'  and 
have  been  arranged  to  operate  either  by  varying  the  light  intensity - 
when  they  are  known  as  'Intensity  Scale  Sensitometers'  -  or  by 
varying  the  time  of  exposure  -  when  they  are  known  as  'Time 
Scale  Sensitometers'.  As  is  well  known,  the  "colour  temperature" 
of  a  tungsten  light  source  varies  according  to  its  intensity  and, 
since  monochrome  film  is  not  sensitive  to  all  colours  to  an  equal 
degree,  it  is  therefore  an  advantage  to  employ  a  neutral  density 
wedge  to  adjust  the  exposure  in  intensity-scale  sensitometers 
rather  than  to  vary  the  current  passing  through  the  lamp.  Here 
again  it  is  necessary  to  employ  lamps  running  at  different  voltages 
when  films  used  for  different  purposes  are  being  tested.  It  is  also 
necessary  to  insert  filters  in  the  light  beam  to  produce  the  most 
advantageous  conditions  for  films  of  different  colour  sensitivity. 

To  obtain  a  series  of  increasing  exposures  is,  of  itself,  of  little 
value  unless  the  amount  by  which  each  exposure  is  greater  than 
that  which  precedes  it  is  related  to  the  response  of  the  film.  As  has 
been  shown  previously,  linear  increments  in  Density  are  actually 
Logarithmic  increases  in  Opacity  and,  therefore,  it  follows  that 


120  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

the  most  useful  exposure  increments  which  may  be  related  to 
resultant  densities  are  those  which  also  increase  logarithmically. 
For  many  years  the  only  instrument  of  this  type  was  the  Kodak 
'Type  2b'  instrument  in  which  each  exposure  is  s/2  greater  than 
that  which  immediately  precedes  it. 

Instruments  designed  to  measure  the  resultant  densities  produced 
on  a  film  are  known  as  'Densitometers'  -  one  example  being  the 
Kodak  Densitometer  in  which  a  photometric  head  and  associated 
optical  system  are  used  to  compare  a  calibrated  density  range 
with  that  which  is  to  be  measured.  It  is  therefore  possible  to  make 
a  series  of  known  exposures  and,  after  processing  the  film,  to 
measure  the  resultant  densities. 


The  Sensitometer 

Before  we  can  discuss  the  process  of  Sensitometric  Control  any 
further  it  is  essential  that  the  operation  of  the  instruments  used  in 
this  work  be  thoroughly  understood.  Any  sensitometer  consists  of 
two  main  sections;  firstly  a  source  of  illumination  and,  secondly, 
a  means  for  controlling  the  amount  of  illumination  which  reaches 
various  areas  of  the  film  under  test. 

As  we  have  seen,  this  has  produced  two  main  types  of  sensito- 
meters,  the  first  known  as  the  'Intensity  Scale'  instrument  in  which 
the  exposure  time  is  constant  but  the  intensity  of  the  illumination 
is  regulated,  and  the  second  type,  known  as  the  'Time  Scale' 
instrument,  in  which  the  illumination  is  maintained  constant  but 
the  time  of  exposure  is  varied. 

The  Kodak  Type  2b  sensitometer  is  very  widely  used  through- 
out the  Industry  and  has  therefore  been  chosen  as  a  typical 
example  of  these  instruments.  It  is  of  the  'Time  Scale'  type  and  is 
one  in  which  non-intermittent  exposures  are  given,  as  opposed  to 
another  type  in  which  the  series  of  'steps'  in  the  resultant  densities 
are  produced  by  an  intermittent  series  of  exposures  of  different 
duration. 

A  cut-away  view  of  the  Kodak  sensitometer  is  seen  in  Figure  51 
and  shows  all  the  essential  parts  of  the  instrument.  Obviously,  if 
the  instrument  depends  for  its  accuracy  upon  the  constant  quality 
of  light  output,  the  lamp  'L'  must  be  carefully  selected.  These 
lamps  are  obtainable  only  from  Kodak  Limited,  where  they  are 
calibrated  for  their  colour  temperature  and  candle-power.  The 
lamps  are  considerably  under-run  to  increase  their  life  and  also 
to  maintain  more  reliable  conditions  since,  when  operating  in  the 
sensitometer,  they  are  used  as  a  standard  of  luminous  intensity 


PROCESSING  MOTION   PICTURE  FILM 


121 


Fig.  51. — The  Kodak  type  2b  sensitometer. 


with  a  candle  power  tolerance  of  only  2  %.  Under  these  conditions 
their  life  is  well  over  200  hours  but,  to  safeguard  against  probable 
ageing,  all  laboratories  carry  spare  lamps,  again  specially  selected 
by  Kodak  Limited,  with  which  lamps  which  are  in  current  use  are 
compared  from  time  to  time.  Kodak  Limited  keep  a  careful  record 
of  the  lamps  which  are  supplied  to  the  laboratories  and  are  there- 
fore able  to  supply  further  lamps  which  accurately  match  those 
previously  employed. 

Light  from  the  source  'L'  passes  through  aperture  'O'  formed 
in  the  lamp-house  and  also  in  the  main  instrument  casting.  An 
optically  flat  mirror  'M'  is  accurately  mounted  at  45°  to  the 
optical  axis  and  so  reflects  the  light  upwards  to  the  plain  of 
exposure,  indicated  at  'PL'.  A  rheostat  'R'  controls  the  current 
flowing  through  the  lamp  and  may  be  accurately  set  by  means  of 
ammeter  'A'.  The  voltage  across  the  lamp  is  also  indicated  by 
voltmeter  *V\  Since  it  is  necessary  to  adjust  these  meters  in  the 
dark-room,  safelights  'SL'  have  been  built  into  the  instrument. 
Lamps  of  different  candle-power  must  be  used  for  testing  negative 
and  positive  films;  this  entails  the  use  of  double-scale  meters  to 
obtain  precision  current  adjustments,  and  also  means  to  vary 
the  amount  of  resistance  in  series  with  the  lamps.  All  these  changes 
are  automatically  performed  by  selector  switch  'LS\  To  use  the 
instrument  to  produce  strips  on  positive  film  the  positive  lamp 
should  be  inserted  at  'L',  and  the  selector  switch  *LS'  turned  to  the 
positive  position  as  indicated  at  *P\  For  use  with  negative  material, 
the  negative  lamp  is  inserted  and  switch  'LS'  is  turned  to  the 
negative  position  as  shown  at  *N\  A  filter  'F'  is  introduced  into 


122 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


OOOaQQQQOQaOODDaDQOaQQQQQQQDaOQQQODOOODQQQQQQOaai 


/ppppopgggnggpgoononnQaggogonoooonooaannaoo.nnoooQi 


Fig.  52. — A  2b  sensitometric  strip. 


the  light  beam  to  modify  the  characteristics  of  the  light  to  the 
required  quality  for  testing  purposes. 

The  increase  in  times  in  exposure  which  are  given  to  successive 
steps  along  the  film  are  obtained  by  twenty-one  slots  of  logarithmic 
increments  in  length,  cut  in  a  circular  drum  'D'.  The  drum  is  only 
closed  at  that  end  near  the  gearbox  'G\  so  that  mirror  'M'  is 
actually  mounted  within  the  rotating  drum.  The  drum  is  rotated 
at  a  constant  speed  by  a  synchronous  motor  *SM',  and  via  a  gear 
reduction  unit  'G\  The  electrical  supply  both  to  the  motor  and 
lamp  is  through  the  main  switch  'MS'.  When  this  switch  is  closed 
the  motor  and  drum  rotate  continuously  but,  since  the  photo- 
graphic material  must  only  receive  an  exposure  during  one  revolu- 
tion of  the  drum,  a  shutter  *S'  is  introduced  into  the  light  beam. 
This  shutter  is  driven  by  a  selector  mechanism  directly  connected 
to  a  countershaft,  running  horizontally  on  a  cantilever  casting  and 
geared  to  the  main  drum.  The  selector  mechanism  is  arranged  to 
operate  as  follows:  -  After  the  main  switch  has  been  closed  and  the 
drum  is  rotating,  the  film  is  inserted  beneath  the  platen  'PL'  and 
exposing  button  'B'  is  depressed.  When  the  drum  has  reached  a 
point  when  the  complete  area  of  the  film  platen  is  covered,  the 
selector  mechanism,  which  is  geared  to  operate  in  synchronism 
with  the  drum,  opens  the  shutter  \S'  and,  immediately  the  twenty- 
one  step  exposures  have  been  made,  that  is,  in  less  than  one 
revolution  of  the  drum,  the  mechanism  closes  shutter  'S'  once 
more  and  then  remains  disengaged  from  the  drum,  which  will 
continue  to  rotate,  until  button  'B'  is  again  depressed.  When  very 
slow  film  is  used  it  is  sometimes  necessary  to  allow  more  than  one 
revolution  of  the  shutter.  The  roll  of  film  upon  which  sensitometric 
exposures  are  to  be  made  is  mounted  vertically  as  shown  at  *SR' 
and  is  taken  under  platen  'PL'  where  it  is  held  flat  during  the 
exposing  period.  A  typical  *2b'  strip  produced  by  this  instrument  is 
seen  in  Figure  52  and  it  should  be  noticed  that  a  'V  shaped  cut  has 
been  made  in  the  eleventh  step  -  that  is,  the  central  one.  This 
locating  mark  is  very  useful  when  plotting  curves  of  densities 
measured  from  these  strips. 


PROCESSING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  123 


DENSITY    DUE   TO 
THE   CALIBRATED 


CIRCULAR    — 

COMPARISON          JSP         ^^^^^^^^^^^  S 

WEDGE. 


SITY    DUE  TO 
THE   SENSITOMtTRIC 


Fig.  53. — Comparison  fields  of  optical  densitometer. 

The  Densitometer 

In  recent  years  photo-electric  densitometers,  such  as  the  Western 
Electric  type  RA-1 100,  have  become  very  popular  and  reliable  but, 
since  their  purpose  is  basically  similar  to  equipment  which,  at 
this  stage,  may  be  more  easily  visualised,  it  has  been  thought 
advisable  to  discuss  the  Kodak  densitometer. 

The  principle  of  this  instrument  is  an  arrangement  whereby  two 
concentric  circles  of  light  are  matched  in  density,  the  inner  circle 
being  the  density  of  the  step  on  the  sensitometric  strip,  and  the 
outer  surrounding  density  being  used  for  comparison.  This  is  more 
clearly  understood  by  reference  to  Figure  53  which  show  the  appear- 
ance of  the  image  as  seen  through  the  eyepiece  of  the  densitometer. 
The  inner  circular  density  is  obtained  directly  from  the  film  which 
is  to  be  measured  and  may  be  altered  until  it  is  a  perfect  match 
with  the  larger  patch  and,  in  consequence,  no  dividing  line  is  then 
visible  between  the  two  sections.  This  variation  of  the  inner 
density  is  obtained  by  mounting  a  large  circular  wedge  of 
uniformly  increasing  density  so  that,  by  rotation,  the  density  of  the 
inner  ring  may  be  varied.  The  circular  wedge  is  accurately  cali- 
brated in  such  a  manner  that,  when  a  perfect  match  is  obtained, 
the  scale  of  densities  mounted  on  the  wedge  may  be  easily  read. 

Figure  54  shows  a  cross-sectional  view  of  the  densitometer  and 
also  a  general  view  of  the  instrument.  Since  a  comparison  between 
two  densities  is  to  be  made  it  is  essential  that  the  illumination  of 
each  shall  be  equal  in  intensity.  It  is  not  practicable  to  attempt  to 
match  the  brightness  of  two  separate  sources  of  illumination; 
this  difficulty  has  therefore  been  overcome  in  the  Kodak  instru- 
ment by  using  a  single  light  source  to  illuminate  both  fields.  The 
light  source  'A'  is  a  6-Volt,  5-Amp  motor  car  type  headlight  lamp, 
and  this  form  of  lamp  burns  in  the  horizontal  plane  without  the 
filament  sagging.  Light  from  'A'  passes  through  the  circular 


124 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


'1=^0 


Fig.  54. — The  Kodak  densitometer. 


wedge  of  known  density  increments  *W\  via  the  collecting  glass 
rod  *F  to  the  opal  glass  'H',  on  which  the  density  to  be  measured 
is  placed.  A  second  beam  of  light  coming  from  the  lamp  is  led 
round  by  the  mirror  'B\  through  the  opal  glass  'C  and  is  then 
reflected  onto  the  photometric  head  by  another  mirror  'D'.  This 
photometric  head  consists  of  a  plain  glass  *F\  mounted  at  45°,  and 
so  arranged  that  light  from  the  mirror  system  is  reflected  to  the 
base  of  the  head. 

It  is  important  to  realise  that  plain  glass  will  act  as  a  mirror  in 
this  manner,  although  it  will  not  reflect  an  amount  of  light  equal 
to  that  reflected  by  a  silvered  surface.  It  is  essential  that  plain 
glass  should  be  used  at  this  point  since  both  the  reflected  light  just 
referred  to  and  also  the  direct  beam  coming  from  'A',  via  'P'  and 
*H\  must  be  viewed  through  the  eyepiece  T.  The  two  surfaces  of 
the  glass  'F'  therefore  reflect  light  to  furnish  a  comparison  beam. 
In  the  base  of  the  head  is  a  circular  mirror  'G\  mounted  with  the 
silvered  surface  nearest  the  opal  glass  *H\  In  the  centre  of  this 
mirror  the  silver  has  been  removed  over  an  area  of  J-mm  in 
diameter  so  that  the  direct  light  from  'A',  via  'P'  and  'H'  and  finally 
through  the  film  strip,  will  be  seen  through  this  central  spot 
whilst  the  reflected  light,  via  'B',  *C,  'D'  and  4F'  will  be  reflected 


PROCESSING   MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  125 

by  the  surrounding  mirror  of  "G\  Thus  an  observer  at  T  will  see 
the  central  spot  which  illuminates  the  film  to  be  measured,  and  the 
brightness  of  which  may  be  varied  by  rotating  the  wedge  'W,  and 
also  a  surrounding  comparison  beam  of  constant  brightness  with 
which  the  central  spot  must  be  matched.  Mirror  'D\  glass  'F\ 
mirror  *G'  and  eyepiece  T  are  all  mounted  in  a  casting  hinged  to 
the  main  body  of  the  instrument  so  that  the  entire  head  may  be 
raised  to  permit  the  film  to  be  inserted  between  it  and  the  wedge. 
Since  the  foregoing  arrangement  depends  entirely  upon  the 
brightness  of  the  lamp  'A',  it  is  necessary  to  adjust  this  brightness 
before  a  series  of  measurements  can  be  made.  This  operation  is 
performed  by  first  rotating  the  wedge  ' W  until  the  setting  for  zero 
density  appears  in  the  lower  right-hand  window  as  shown  in  the 
figure.  If,  under  these  conditions,  the  central  spot  is  not  of  equal 
intensity  with  the  surrounding  field  as  viewed  through  the  eyepiece, 
the  knurled  screw  'K'  should  be  turned  until  balance  is  obtained. 
It  will  be  obvious  from  the  diagram  that  this  action  moves  the  light- 
source  either  nearer  to  or  further  from  the  comparison  head  and 
therefore  adjusts  the  brightness  of  the  central  spot  without  altering 
the  surrounding  field.  The  piece  of  film  to  be  measured  is  then 
placed  in  the  centre  of  the  opal  bed,  with  the  emulsion  side  in 
contact  with  it.  The  moving  head  of  the  densitometer  is  then 
lowered  into  contact  with  the  upper  surface  of  the  film  and  the 
circular  wedge  is  rotated  until  the  spot  in  the  centre  of  the  field  is 
neither  darker  or  lighter  than  the  surrounding  area  and,  therefore, 
disappears.  The  density  of  this  spot  on  the  film  is  then  shown  under 
the  hair-line  on  the  small  window  seen  at  the  bottom  right-hand 
corner  in  the  illustration. 

Sensitometry  Applied  to  Processing 

Having  described  the  machines  used  to  produce  sensitometric 
data,  it  now  remains  to  apply  these  instruments  to  laboratory 
practice.  To  observe  any  relationship  which  may  exist  between 
Exposure  and  Density  it  is  most  convenient  to  express  the  results 
graphically  as  shown  in  Figure  55. 

It  has  been  previously  stated  that  the  Kodak  Sensitometer 
makes  a  series  of  exposures  along  a  strip  of  film  in  such  a  manner 
that  each  exposure  step  is  greater  by  \/2  than  that  of  its  pre- 
decessor. If,  for  the  purpose  of  illustration,  we  assume  that  the  first 
step,  shown  to  the  left-hand  end  of  the  horizontal  axis  of  the 
graph  in  Figure  55,  is  of  one-second  duration,  the  second  step 
will  be  V2  or  1-4142  times  greater,  the  third  step  will  be  1-4142 
times  greater  than  the  second,  and  so  on  throughout  the  entire 


126 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


w|       I        2       3       4       5       6       7       6       9      !Q      i)       12     13      14      15      16  .    17      13     19     2Q    21 
6  QJi    Q3  Q45  06  Q7S  Q9    I  OS  1 2Q  135    IS    >55  l-SO  &  2-IQ  225  2*0  255  27  235 


I     LOG   EXPOSURE 


Fig.  55. — Characteristic  sensitometric  data. 


range  of  21  steps.  The  eighth  exposure  will,  for  the  purposes  of  this 
illustration,  therefore  be  of  11-31  seconds  duration  and  let  it  be 
assumed  that,  with  a  particular  emulsion  and  under  certain 
processing  conditions,  this  eighth  exposure  produced  a  density  of 
1  *0.  Now  it  has  been  previously  shown  that  a  density  of  2-0  only 
passes  one-tenth  the  amount  of  light  which  is  passed  by  a  density 
of  1  -0  (see  Figure  50).  Inversely,  that  exposure  which  produces  a 
density  of  2-0  should  therefore  be  ten  times  greater  than  that 
which  produced  a  density  of  1-0 

If  horizontal  lines  are  now  drawn  on  the  graph,  Figure  55,  level 
with  the  densities  of  1  -0  and  2  -0,  and  are  turned  through  a  right- 
angle  by  means  of  the  45°  inclined  line  *A-B',  it  is  seen  that,  when 
a  density  of  1  -0  is  created  by  an  exposure  of  11  -31 -seconds,  a 
density  of  2  -0  is  created  by  an  exposure  of  113  -1 -seconds,  that  is, 
ten  times  more  exposure.  It  must  be  realised  that,  merely  to  illus- 
trate the  relationship  between  Exposure  and  Density,  it  has  been 
assumed  that  exposures  from  one  second  onwards  are  used. 
Actually  the  whole  series  of  exposures  takes  place  in  less  than 
five  seconds  and  we  have  only  adopted  a  convenient  figure  to 
avoid  dealing  in  decimal  parts  of  a  second.  The  ratio  between 
successive  exposures  remains  constant  whatever  units  are  employed. 


PROCESSING  MOTION   PICTURE  FILM  127 

Characteristic  Curves 

Curves  produced  by  plotting  exposure  values  against  resultant 
densities  are  sometimes  known  as  4H  &  D'  curves,  after  Hurter 
and  Driffield,  the  two  scientists  who  first  employed  this  method 
of  representing  photographic  characteristics.  Obviously,  it  would 
be  of  little  value  to  deal  with  Opacities  and  actual  Exposure  times 
when  plotting  these  curves  since  the  scales  of  reference  would  be 
very  widely  spaced  at  one  end  and  very  crowded  together  at  the 
other.  However,  by  taking  logarithms  of  each  scale,  an  evenly 
distributed  calibration  is  obtained  throughout  the  total  range  of 
densities  and  exposures.  When  logarithms  of  Opacities  are  plotted, 
as  shown  on  the  vertical  scale  in  Figure  55,  they  are  termed 
'Densities'.  When  logarithms  of  the  actual  exposure  times  are  plot- 
ted, as  shown  on  the  horizontal  scale,  they  are  known  as  'Log 
Exposures'  -  this  axis  being  popularly  known  as  the  'Log  E'  axis. 

Some  people  find  considerable  difficulty  in  plotting  character- 
istic curves  because  they  are  never  quite  sure  of  the  relationship 
between  the  units  of  density  and  the  units  of  log-exposure.  We  have 
seen  that  the  sensitometer  gives  a  series  of  exposures,  each 
of  which  is  1  -4142  times  greater  than  the  exposure  preceding  it. 
It  will  also  be  seen  from  Figure  55  that  the  logarithms  of  the 
exposures  increase  as  follows:  -  0  -15,  0  -30,  0  -45,  0  -60,  0  -75,  and 
so  on,  that  is,  each  step  increases  by  0  -15.  If,  for  example,  we  let 
0-15  increase  in  Log-Exposure  be  represented  by  15  divisions 
along  the  graph  paper,  we  must  also  let  0  -15  increase  in  Density  be 
represented  by  15  divisions  since,  in  actual  fact,  we  are  plotting 
one  logarithm  against  another.  Confusion  always  arises  because 
the  density  scale  is  marked  off  not  in  units  of  0  *15,  but  in  units  of 
0  -10  -  under  such  circumstances  it  must  be  remembered  that  the 
ratio  between  the  two  scales  is  still  maintained  although  different 
intervals  are  numbered  on  each  scale.  In  short,  no  matter  what 
type  of  graph  paper  is  used,  but  providing  the  exposure  increments 
are  known  to  be  V2,  the  number  of  divisions  along  the  graph 
paper  which  are  used  to  represent  a  change  of  0  -1  in  Density  must 
always  be  2/3  the  number  used  to  represent  one  exposure  step. 
It  should  be  noted  that,  although  <^2  is  actually  1  -4142,  the 
logarithm  of  this  is  0  -15. 

Assuming  that  a  range  of  sensitometric  exposures  has  been 
made,  processed  and  measured,  a  curve  similar  to  that  shown 
in  Figure  56  will  be  produced.  It  will  be  noticed  that  a  section  of 
this  curve,  from  point  'B'  up  to  point  'C\  will  be  substantially 
straight  and  will,  therefore,  indicate  that  within  this  range, 
densities  will  be  produced  in  proportion  to  the  magnitude  of  the 


128 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


24 

2  1 

f    D 

1  8 

~£* 

15 

>- 

|o9 

oa 
o 

&/ 

a 

A 

i 

\ 

F 

K 

Ol    04      O      IO     1-3      1-6      19     22     25    28    31 
LOG    EXPOSURE 

Fig.  56. — Analysis  of  characteristic  curve. 


exposures  given.  Below  point  'B'  the  curve  is  seen  to  flatten  out 
over  the  region  of  under  exposure  -  known  as  the  'toe'  of  the  curve 
-there  is  no  constant  relationship  between  density  and  log- 
exposure  in  this  region  but  merely  a  steady  increase  in  density 
difference  as  the  exposure  increases. 

Above  point  'C  the  curve  flattens  out  once  more  over  the  region 
known  as  the  'shoulder'  or  region  of  over-exposure  -  here  again 
the  constant  relationship  between  density  and  log-exposure  ceases 
to  exist  and  the  density  differences  decrease  as  the  exposure 
increases  until  they  finally  reach  zero  at  point  'D'. 

Of  great  importance  is  the  angle  which  the  'straight-line'  portion 
'B-C  makes  with  the  horizontal  log-exposure  axis  of  the  graph. 
This  angle  is  indicated  at  'a',  Figure  56,  and,  if  it  is  large,  and  the 
curve  is  consequently  steep,  will  indicate  that  the  combination 
between  the  film  and  the  processing  conditions  have  produced  a 
'contrasty'  result.  Obviously,  if  the  conditions  of  exposure  have 
been  maintained  constant,  the  only  way  by  which  the  curve  can 
become  steep  is  for  the  difference  between  consecutive  densities  to 
become  large.  If  angle  'a'  is  relatively  small,  and,  therefore,  the 
curve  is  shallow,  it  will  indicate  that  the  combination  between  the 
film  and  processing  conditions  have  produced  a  'flat'  result  in 
which  the  same  increases  in  exposure  as  were  used  in  the  first 
example  now  only  produce  relatively  small  increases  in  density. 
The  tangent  of  angle 'd  has  been  designated  by  the  greek  letter 
'Gamma*  and  is  used  to  indicate  the  degree  of  contrast  obtained 
with  certain  films  under  specific  conditions. 


PROCESSING   MOTION   PICTURE   FILM 


129 


It  is  obviously  necessary  that  emulsion  manufacturers  should 
produce  materials  which,  over  a  large  portion  of  their  range, 
react  proportionally  so  that  steady  increases  in  log-exposure  time 
produce  correspondingly  steady  increases  in  density.  The  actual 
increases  in  density  which  result  from  unit  increases  in  log- 
exposure  depend  upon  the  slope  or  'gamma'  of  the  proportional 
section  of  the  curve  which  represents  the  characteristics  of  each 
film  under  given  processing  conditions. 

In  Figure  57  three  straight  lines,  'A',  'B'  and  *C\  are  used  to 
represent  the  proportional  or  'straight  line*  sections  of  the 
characteristic  curves  of  three  different  emulsions  processed  under 
similar  conditions  or,  alternatively,  of  one  emulsion  processed 
under  three  different  conditions.  Since  all  three  lines  intersect  at  a 
single  point  we  see  that,  in  all  cases,  a  density  of  1  0  is  produced 
when  a  log-exposure  time  of  1  -05  is  given.  However,  a  density  of 
2  -0  is  produced  by  the  conditions  represented  by  line  'A'  when  a 
log-exposure  of  1  -65  is  given,  whereas  this  density  is  only  produced 
by  line  'B'  when  the  log-exposure  is  increased  to  2  -05  or,  by  line 
'C\  when  it  is  increased  to  2  -55.  It  is  very  important  to  remember 
that,  under  all  three  conditions,  steady  increases  in  density  at  any 
point  throughout  the  range  will  be  obtained  by  correspondingly 
steady  increases  in  log-exposure.  That  is  to  say,  all  the  emulsions 
are  reacting  proportionally  over  these  sections  of  their  character- 
istic curves. 


LOG   EXPOSURE 


Fig.  S7. — Various  degrees-  of  contrast  expressed  -graphically 


130 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


>2 

2-8 

|        1        1        1 
TAN  ^ACB  - 1|  »GAMM; 

24 

/ 

ISO 
.*,  GAMMA  -KX5 

^ 

> 

X 

^    12 

/ 

08 

/ 

| 

/ 

I 

S, 

/ 

1 

o-oo 


08 


!6 


2  4  B 


32 


40 


LOG    EXPOSURE 

Fig.  58. — Gamma  of  unity  illustrated  graphically. 


Only  under  one  particular  condition  will  increases  in  log-exposure 
be  equal  to  increases  in  density  over  this  straight  line  portion  of 
the  characteristic  curve.  This  condition  is  indicated  by  line  'B\ 
Figure  57,  from  which  it  is  seen  that  an  increase  in  density  from 
I  -0  up  to  2  -0  is  caused  by  an  increase  in  log-exposure  from  1  -05 
up  to  2  -05.  Under  these  conditions  the  relationship  between 
density  and  log-exposure  becomes  a  simple  arithmetical  pro- 
portion and  equal  increases  in  log-exposure  produce  equal  increases 
in  film  density.  A  little  consideration  will  show  that  this  condition 
can  only  occur  when  line  \B'  makes  an  angle  of  45°  with  the  Log- 
Exposure  axis. 

This  special  case  is  of  great  importance  in  all  photographic 
work  and  is  illustrated  in  Figure  58.  As  mentioned  previously, 
gamma  is  defined  as  the  tangent  of  the  angle  formed  between  the 
straight  portion  of  the  characteristic  curve  and  the  log-exposure 
axis  of  the  graph.  In  the  example,  this  straight  line  portion  has 
been  produced  to  a  point  'C  so  as  to  cut  the  log-exposure  axis. 
Considering  the  right-angled  triangle  'A.B.C,  the  height  *AB'  is 
seen  to  be  1  -8,  the  base  *BC  also  to  be  1  -8  and  the  required  angle 
is  *A.C.B.\  Since  the  tangent  of  this  angle  is  equal  to  the  height 
*AB*  divided  by  the  base  'BC  it  must,  in  this  case,  be  equal  to  unity. 

Those  interested  in  trigonometry  will  quickly  see  that  any  gamma 
value  for  any  characteristic  curve  can  be  quickly  found  by  (a) 
selecting  a  point  on  the  straight  line  portion  of  the  curve  which 
is  near  to  the  toe,  (b)  measuring  off"  10  divisions  along  the  graph 
paper  parallel  to  the  log-exposure  axis  and  starting  from  this  point 
at  (a),  (c)  at  the  right-hand  end  of  these  ten  divisions,  erect  a 
perpendicular  line  and,  where  this  line  cuts  the  characteristic 


PROCESSING   MOTION   PICTURE   FILM 


31 


curve  make  a  mark  -  the  distance  between  this  mark  arid  the  base 
of  the  perpendicular  will  now  be  a  direct  reading  of  *Gamma\ 

It  will  be  appreciated  that,  when  gamma  is  equal  to  unity,  the 
differences  in  density  must  be  equal  to  the  differences  in  log- 
exposure  and,  therefore,  the  transmission  range  of  the  negative 
will  be  equal  to  that  of  the  original  subject. 

Film  Speed 

Further  information  which  may  be  gained  from  the  characteristic 
curve  of  a  given  emulsion  concerns  the  'photographic  speed*. 
Let  it  be  assumed  that  two  emulsions  are  available  and  that, 
under  given  processing  conditions,  both  will  produce  similar 
gamma  values.  However,  on  plotting  the  curves  it  is  found  that 
one  is  much  nearer  to  the  vertical,  or  density  axis,  than  is  the 
other.  This  condition  is  seen  in  Figure  59  and  it  must  be  realised 
that  both  emulsions  are,  in  this  particular  example,  identical  in 
all  respects  other  than  the  speed  with  which  they  react  to  a  given 
exposure.  It  will  be  apparent  that  curve  'A'  represents  a  very  fast 
emulsion  since  comparatively  low  exposure  values  have  produced 
the  required  density  range.  Similarly,  curve  'B'  represents  a  much 
slower  emulsion  upon  which  a  range  of  densities  equal  in  all 
respects  to  those  produced  by  emulsion  'A',  are  only  obtained 
after  much  greater  exposure  values  have  been  given. 


y^  -^ 

y     y         ^ 

7      7 

1               t      t 

i                                  /                  / 

zrt  7 

±  _r  _r 

z    zr    zL 

LOG  EXPOSURE 

Fig.  59.— The  effect  of  film  "speed* 


132  PRINCIPLES  'OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

General  Characteristics  :  : 

The  foregoing  details  may  be  summarised  quite  briefly  to  present 
a  concise  picture  of  the  information  given  by  characteristic  curves. 
Firstly,  the  position  of  the  curve  with  respect  to  the  log-exposure 
axis  will  indicate  the  photographic  speed  of  the  emulsion  (if  it  is 
to  the  left  it  will  be  fast  and,  if  to  the  right  it  will  be  slow).  Secondly, 
the  slope,  or  gradient,  of  that  part  of  the  curve  which  is  substanti- 
ally straight  supplies  a  measure  of  the  image  contrast  -  this 
quality  is  usually  referred  to  as  the  'gamma'  of  the  emulsion 
when  subjected  to  certain  conditions.  Thirdly,  since  gamma  or 
contrast  will  increase  if  the  developing  time  is  prolonged,  it  is 
possible  to  plot  values  of  gamma  against  developing  time  and  so 
to  produce  a  'time-gamma'  curve  for  a  given  emulsion  when 
developed  in  a  given  solution. 

Further  experiments  will  quickly  indicate  that  such  'time- 
gamma'  curves  are  of  little  value  unless  the  conditions  of  the 
processing  solution  are  rigidly  controlled.  The  gamma  obtained 
after  any  developing  time  depends  upon  the  degree  to  which  the 
solution  is  agitated,  the  temperature  of  the  solution  at  the  time 
of  development  and  the  age  of  the  developer.  Even  if  all  these 
variables  are  rigidly  controlled  both  when  time-gamma  curves  are 
produced  and  when  they  are  subsequently  used  to  select  any 
required  processing  conditions,  it  does  not  necessarily  follow  that 
a  given  gamma  value  will  be  a  true  indication  of  the  actual  contrast 
of  the  material.  This  is  particularly  true  of  those  modern  negative 
emulsions  in  which  the  densities  used  in  practice  do  not  all  lie 
on  the  straight  section  of  the  characteristic  curve. 

Required  Negative  and  Positive  Gamma  Values 
Although  we  are  now  in  a  position  to  produce  negatives  developed 
to  any  required  gamma,  or  contrast  range,  it  is  still  necessary  to 
decide  upon  the  most  suitable  value  to  adopt.  For  the  moment  we 
will  consider  only  the  processing  of  picture  materials  and  will 
deal  with  the  processing  of  sound  materials  at  a  later  stage.  The 
problem  is,  of  course,  to  be  able  to  reproduce  the  entire  range  of 
brightness  encountered  in  any  subject  so  that  the  final  screen 
image  will  closely  resemble  the  original.  Only  in  very  exceptional 
circumstances  is  it  possible  to  reproduce  the  absolute  brightness 
faithfully  but,  fortunately,  such  accuracy  is  not  necessary.  Practical 
limitations  force  the  adoption  of  a  compressed  scale  of  brightnesses, 
lower  than  those  of  the  average  original.  Providing  the  brightness 
ratios  are  proportional  it  is  no  disadvantage  that  they  may  be 
reproduced  at  a  lower  intensity  level. 


PROCESSING   MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  133 

The  stages  in  the  reproduction  of  the  final  screen  picture  are  as 
follows: -(1)  Those  governed  by  image  formation  through 
lenses  -  such  stages  are,  of  course,  the  original  photography  in 
the  studio,  possibly  the  use  of  lenses  in  optical  printers  and  the 
projection  of  the  final  prints.  (2)  The  exposure  of  the  negative 
and  positive  films  -  from  a  'chemical'  point  of  view.  (3)  The 
processing  of  both  negative  and  positive  films. 

The  only  stages  over  which  the  laboratory  has  control  are, 
therefore,  the  development  of  the  negative  and  the  exposure  and 
development  of  the  prints.  It  should  be  apparent  that  the  gamma 
or  contrast  of  the  final  prints  will  be  controlled  largely  by  the 
gamma  of  the  negatives  from  which  such  prints  are  made.  A 
third  gamma  value,  known  as  the  'over-ail'  gamma  or  'reproduc- 
tion gamma'  is  used  to  decide  the  gamma  value  to  which  any 
positive  print  must  be  developed. 

In  order  to  preserve  a  final  brightness  range  proportional  to 
the  original  subject,  an  over-all  gamma  of  unity  is  required.  This 
over-all  gamma  is  the  numerical  product  of  the  negative  gamma, 
the  printing  machine  gamma,  the  positive  film  gamma  and  the 
projection  factor.  Whilst  laboratories  are  able  very  accurately  to 
determine  the  printer  gamma,  the  projection  factor  will,  of  course, 
be  slightly  different  in  each  cinema;  it  is  therefore  necessary  to 
assume  an  average  projection  factor  in  these  considerations.  The 
contrast  of  a  projected  image  also  depends  upon  the  reflection 
characteristics  of  the  cinema  screen  and  the  haze-content  of  the 
auditorium.  If  it  were  possible  to  measure  the  contrast  of  the 
image  as  it  leaves  the  projector  (but  before  it  reaches  the  screen) 
it  would  be  found  to  be  in  the  region  of  1 -25; -however,  the 
average  reflectivity  of  the  screen  (in  terms  of  contrast)  will  reduce 
this  figure  to  approximately  unity.  The  gamma  of  the  average 
printing  machine  is  of  the  order  of  0-90-0-95.  It  is  therefore 
seen  that,  if  the  negative  is  developed  to  a  gamma  of,  say,  0-60,  it 
will  be  necessary  to  develop  the  print  from  that  negative  to  a 
gamma  of  1-75  since  0-6  x  0-95  x  1-75  is  approximately  unity. 
Again,  if  the  negative  is  developed  to  a  gamma  of  0-4  it  will  be 
necessary  to  develop  the  corresponding  positive  to  a  gamma  of 
2-65  in  order  to  maintain  unity  in  the  over-all  gamma  value. 

Although  it  would  thereby  appear  to  be  possible  to  obtain  any 
combination  of  negative  and  positive  gamma  values  which,  when 
multiplied  together,  would  produce  an  over-all  gamma  of  unity, 
the  characteristics  of  negative  and  positive  emulsions  set  limits 
between  which  these  values  must  remain  in  order  to  obtain 
reasonable  results.  The  best  results  have  been  obtained  when  the 


134  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

negative  is  developed  to  a  relatively  low  gamma,  the  present 
average  being  between  0-6  and  0-75.  This  condition  automatically 
decides  that  positive  emulsions  must  be  developed  to  a  gamma 
value  in  the  region  of  1  -8  and  2-2. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  ideal  over-all  gamma  should  be  unity, 
but  this  will  only  give  the  most  satisfactory  results  under  ideal 
conditions.  Such  factors  as  stray  light,  both  in  the  camera  and  on 
the  projection  screen,  tend  to  reduce  the  apparent  contrast  of  the 
pictures  as  viewed  by  the  audience  and,  in  order  to  allow  for  these 
reductions,  the  contrast  in  the  final  results  is  made  intentionally 
higher  than  would  be  required  in  the  ideal  case.  Present  day 
practice  is  to  aim  at  producing  an  over-all  gamma  value  of 
approximately  1-2,  that  is,  to  ensure  that  the  gamma  value  of  the 
negative,  when  multiplied  by  that  of  the  positive,  the  printer  and 
the  projection  factor,  will  produce  a  quotient  of  1-2. 

When  it  is  remembered  that  the  positive  print  is  a  married 
copy,  that  is,  it  carries  both  the  picture  and  sound  records,  it  is 
obvious  that  the  positive  sound  track  gamma  has  been  auto- 
matically decided  by  the  requirements  of  the  picture.  It  is  therefore 
essential  that  the  laboratories  should  work  in  the  closest  contact 
with  the  studios  in  order  that  one  shall  be  informed  of  the  conditions 
which  are  being  enforced  by  the  other.  Modern  practice  is  first  to 
decide  upon  the  overall  gamma  value  to  be  aimed  at  and  which  is 
judged  to  be  most  suitable  for  both  sound  and  picture,  then  to 
decide  at  what  gamma  to  develop  the  positive  print;  from  this  step 
it  is  a  simple  calculation  to  determine  the  required  gamma  to  which 
the  picture  and  sound  negatives  should  be  developed. 

Obviously,  this  practice  requires  the  studio  cameraman  to  be 
able  to  control  the  lighting  of  his  sets  so  that  the  original  contrast 
range  will  produce  the  desired  screen  quality  in  the  final  reproduc- 
tion. From  the  sound  recording  point  of  view,  it  will  be  seen  in 
later  chapters  that  much  more  complicated  values  of  modern 
testing  methods  -  such  as  cross-modulation  and  intermodulation  ~ 
confine  the  choice  of  negative  gamma  and  density  values  so  closely 
that,  in  all  honesty,  the  final  combined  positive  conditions  which 
reach  the  cinemas  is  usually  a  compromise  between  the  optimum 
requirements  of  picture  and  sound. 

In  the  past  the  development  of  this  type  of  control  from  the 
processing  stage  was  not  popular  with  the  cameramen  since  it 
required  that  they  should  be  able  to  relate  photographic  analysis 
to  subject  lighting.  However,  it  is  now  almost  universally  agreed 
that  this  method  is  much  superior  to  the  earlier  practice  of  develop- 
ing the  negative  by  inspection  and  experience. 


PROCESSING  MOTION   PICTURE  tlLbi  435 

Gamma  Values  for  Sound  Recording 

Although  no  mention  has  yet  been  made  of  the  sound  recording 
processes  or  apparatus,  it  is  necessary  to  include  at  this  stage  some 
indication  of  the  sensitometric  aspects  of  this  branch  of  the 
Industry,  Two  main  types  of  sound  record  are  at  present  in  use. 
The  one  is  known  as  a  'Variable  Density'  recording  and  may  be 
briefly  described  as  a  sound  track  of  constant  width  in  which  the 
sound  frequencies  are  represented  by  the  number  of  changes  in 
density  and  the  sound  volume  is  represented  by  the  difference  of 
those  densities.  The  other  method,  known  as  'Variable  Width' 
recording,  maintains  a  constant  density  level  but  obtains  the  sound 
frequencies  by  varying  the  width  of  the  track -the  volume  is 
controlled  by  the  depth  or  degree  of  this  variation. 

As  would  be  expected,  it  is  a  relatively  simple  matter  to  select 
suitable  density  and  gamma  values  when  processing  variable-area 
tracks  (although,  as  will  be  seen  when  this  proposition  is  considered 
in  detail  in  Chapter  8,  the  control  of  such  values  is  just  as  critical 
as  that  which  must  be  exercised  with  tracks  recorded  by  the 
'Density'  method).  However,  when  Variable-Density  tracks  are 
processed,  the  sound  reproduction  depends  entirely  upon  the 
changes  in  density  in  the  record  and,  therefore,  processing  must 
be  very  carefully  controlled  if  high  fidelity  sound  reproduction  is 
to  be  achieved.  For  this  reason  only  the  sensitometric  aspects  of 
the  Variable-Density  sound  track  processing  operations  will  be 
considered  at  this  stage. 

It  has  been  stated  previously  that,  in  the  ideal  case,  the  over-all 
gamma  value  for  the  complete  process  of  picture  reproduction 
should  be  unity,  but  that  several  sources  of  contrast  loss  must  be 
provided  for  and,  in  practice,  the  overall  gamma  is  accordingly 
raised.  In  the  case  of  photographic  sound  reproduction  the 
relationship  between  the  film  image  and  the  projected  picture,  as 
seen  by  the  eye,  no  longer  exists.  The  'eye'  of  sound  reproduction  is 
the  photo-electric  cell,  in  which  the  current  is  proportional  to  the 
light  falling  upon  it  when  operating  under  recommended  conditions. 
The  changes  in  current  passing  through  the  cell  will  therefore  be 
proportional  to  the  variations  in  the  amount  of  light  striking  the 
cell,  or  in  this  case,  the  light  transmitted  through  the  sound  track. 
It  is  therefore  necessary  that  the  exposure  of  the  negative  sound 
track  shall  be  linearly  related  to  the  transmission  of  the  print  if 
faithful  reproduction  is  to  be  achieved. 

Because  of  these  requirements  it  is  more  convenient  to  study  the 
photographic  characteristics  of  sound  film  processing  in  terms  of 
initial  exposure  and  final  transmission,  rather  than  log-exposure 


136  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHS 

and  density.  However,  it  is  not  possible  to  carry  out  rapid  tests  on 
the  relationship  between  exposure  and  transmission  and,  since  the 
data  required  to  produce  such  tests  may  also  be  used  to  produce 
normal  log-exposure-density  curves,  this  method  is  only  used 
during  the  early  testing  stages  when  the  characteristics  of  the 
processing  conditions  are  being  checked.  Once  the  required 
exposure-transmission  relationship  has  been  established  it  may  be 
maintained  by  employing  the  normal  log-exposure-density  charac- 
teristic curves  produced  with  the  2b-type  sensitometers. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  the  characteristics  curve  for  a 
photographic  emulsion  consists  of  three  parts,  namely,  the  'toe' 
or  region  of  under-exposure,  the  'straight-line  section',  or  region 
of  constant  relationship  between  exposure  and  density  and, 
finally,  the  'shoulder'  or  region  of  over-exposure.  When  maintain- 
ing the  pictorial  reproduction  to  a  constant  value  it  is  necessary 
to  obtain  a  negative  gamma  of  approximately  0-7  and  a  positive 
gamma  of  2-0  in  order  to  preserve  the  required  over-all  gamma. 
However,  with  sound  track  reproduction,  the  sound  wave  form 
may  be  correctly  reproduced  by  any  set  of  sensitometric  conditions 
which  gives  a  linear  relationship  between  negative  exposure  and 
print  transmission  although,  actually,  only  one  particular  relation- 
ship will  give  the  optimum  volume  output  with  any  specific  re- 
producer. 

This  requirement  may  only  be  obtained  if  the  modulation,  or 
volume  range,  is  so  small  that  all  densities  required  throughout 
the  complete  sound  record  remain  within  the  straight  line  portion 
of  the  characteristic  curves,  both  for  the  negative  and  positive 
emulsions.  Obviously,  within  these  limitations  and  by  the  careful 
choice  of  negative  exposure  and  print  transmission,  a  linear 
relationship  may  be  obtained  for  a  wide  range  of  overall  gamma 
values.  However,  the  most  favourable  conditions  are  only  obtained 
after  other  factors,  such  as  the  frequency  and  volume  ranges  met 
with  in  practice,  are  taken  into  consideration.  The  general  trend  in 
modern  sound  processing  is  more  fully  described  in  Chapter  8. 

When  deciding  upon  the  most  favourable  sensitometric  con- 
ditions the  operator  has  at  his  command  three  variable  quantities. 
Firstly,  the  density  at  which  the  negatives  shall  be  maintained 
when  no  sound  is  being  recorded  -  this  choice  will  decide  the  range 
of  useable  density  made  available  for  recording  purposes  and  is 
known  as  the  'unmodulated  exposure'  of  the  negative.  Secondly, 
the  conditions  under  which  the  negative  is  developed  and,  as  we 
have  seen  from  pictorial  considerations,  this  choice  will  control 
the  gamma  and  therefore  the  contrast  of  the  sound  track.  It  should 


PROCESSING  MOTION   PICTURE   FILM  137 

be  obvious  that  a  development  of  high  contrast  will  cause  a  greater 
change  in  density  for  a  small  change  in  exposure  than  would  be  the 
case  with  a  low  contrast  development.  Since  the  exposure  given  is 
controlled  in  the  sound  recorder  by  the  characteristics  of  the 
sound  itself,  the  range  of  sound  frequencies  which  may  be  success- 
fully recorded  will  be  altered  by  the  degree  of  development  given. 
Finally,  the  density  of  the  print  when  no  sounds  are  recorded  on 
the  negative,  that  is,  the  unmodulated  density  of  the  print,  is  also 
available  for  adjustment.  As  explained  previously,  the  operator  has 
not  so  much  ability  to  vary  the  gamma  of  the  final  release  print 
since  this  is  set  in  conjunction  with  the  requirements  of  the  picture. 

It  is  interesting  to  remember  at  this  stage  that  the  sound  is  not 
married  to  the  picture  until  making  the  final  release  prints.  We 
have  already  discovered  the  need  for  making  special  'dubbing' 
sound  prints  and,  naturally,  at  this  stage  the  sound  is  independent 
of  the  picture  and,  therefore,  positive  sound  prints  are  processed 
to  conditions  which,  whilst  they  may  be  unsuitable  for  the  final 
'married  condition',  do  maintain  a  better  quality  for  the  inter- 
mediate operations.  This  will  be  explained  more  fully  in  subsequent 
chapters. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  the  current  passing  through  the 
photo-cell  of  the  sound  reproducer  is  proportional  to  the  light 
transmitted  through  the  positive  print  and  that  this  relationship 
is  most  easily  obtained  by  study  of  the  transmission-exposure 
characteristics  of  the  system.  Once  this  has  been  settled  it  can  be 
maintained  by  the  normal  sensitometric  control  as  applied  to 
pictorial  work.  One  method  of  obtaining  the  correct  exposure 
necessary  to  give  the  desired  transmission  is  to  analyse  a  family  of 
prints  made  from  sensitometric  strips  and  on  sound  recording 
film.  However,  several  possible  sources  of  error  must  be  taken 
into  account  if  this  work  is  to  be  of  practical  use. 

When  a  positive  print  is  being  made  from  a  negative  it  may  be 
carried  out  in  one  of  two  types  of  machinery.  Firstly,  it  may  be 
made  on  a  machine  in  which  both  negative  and  positive  films  are 
held  in  contact  or,  secondly,  it  may  be  made  on  a  machine  in  which 
a  considerable  space  exists  between  the  films,  the  image  from  the 
negative  being  focused  through  an  intermediate  optical  system. 
The  resultant  density  of  a  print  made  by  the  'contact'  process  will 
not  be  equal  to  the  density  of  a  print  made  by  the  'optical  printing' 
process,  even  when  the  incident  light  on  the  negative  is  equal  in 
both  cases. 

This  difference  between  the  two  methods  is  due  to  the  fact 
that  the  grains  of  silver  which  go  to  make  up  the  final  negative 


I3f  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

image  will  absorb  part  of  the  incident  light  and  also  scatter  some 
of  that  which  is  transmitted  through  the  emulsion.  When  a  con- 
tact print  is  made  the  positive  emulsion  receives  all  the  light 
which  is  transmitted  through  the  negative  film,  that  is  the  direct 
light,  plus  the  scattered  light.  When  a  projection  print  is  made  the 
positive  film  only  receives  that  portion  of  the  transmitted  light 
which  does  not  include  the  scattered  rays. 

This  difference  in  density,  due  to  the  method  employed  to  print 
the  film,  is  also  met  with  in  sound  reproduction.  The  positive 
sound  track  is  illuminated  by  a  beam  of  light  which  passes  to  the 
photo-cell,  via  an  optical  system  located  between  that  cell  and  the 
film.  The  effective  density  of  the  print  and,  therefore,  the  density 
important  to  the  photo-cell  circuit,  will  only  be  equal  to  the  density 
of  the  emulsion  if  the  density  of  the  emulsion  is  measured  under 
conditions  which  do  not  include  the  scattered  light  passed  through 
the  film  and  which,  in  practice,  never  reaches  the  photo-cell.  The 
measurement  of  a  density  so  that  all  the  scattered  light  is  included 
in  the  reading  produces  a  value  known  as  the  'diffuse*  density.  A 
similar  measurement  which  ignores  the  scattered  light  will  produce 
a  value  known  as  the  'specular'  density.  The  ratio  between  these 
two  densities  is  known  as  the  'callier  coefficient'  The  specular 
density  is  always  higher  than  the  diffuse  density.  Densitometers 
used  in  laboratory  work  can  usually  only  measure  diffuse  density 
and,  in  consequence,  any  transmission  values  calculated  from 
measurements  made  on  these  instruments  for  sound  reproduction 
analysis  should  be  arranged  first  to  read  the  true  specular  trans- 
missions which  reach  the  photo-cell  in  the  sound  reproducing 
equipment.  Allowance  for  this  is  made  by  employing  a  'projection 
factor'  based  upon  the  optical  absorption  of  the  system. 

Another  source  of  error  in  making  sensitometric  measurements 
for  sound  processing  control  purposes  concerns  the  'reciprocity 
law'.  The  reciprocity  law  assumes  that  the  density  of  a  photo- 
graphic image  is  a  pure  result  of  the  product  between  the  intensity 
of  the  illumination  and  the  time  during  which  it  is  active.  This 
theory  has  since  been  proved  incorrect  and  it  has  been  found  that 
a  very  high  intensity,  active  for  a  short  duration,  does  not  produce 
a  density  equal  to  that  caused  by  a  correspondingly  low  intensity, 
active  for  a  longer  duration  -  although,  in  both  cases,  the  product 
of  intensity  and  time  are  equal.  Because  of  this,  the  shape  of  the 
characteristic  curve  produced  by  reading  the  densities  exposed  in 
a  sensitometer  at  relatively  low  levels  of  intensity  is  different  from 
that  produced  in  a  sound  recorder  which  operates  at  relatively 
high  intensities. 


PROCESSING    MOTION    PICTURE   FILM  139 

The  difference  between  contact  and  optical  printing  has  been 
mentioned  to  draw  attention  to  the  difference  between  specular 
and  diffuse  light  transmission.  As  would  be  expected  from  these 
differences,  a  further  error  must  be  allowed  for,  dependent  upon 
the  optical  system  used  in  the  printing  machines  employed  for  this 
work.  If  curves  are  produced  to  show  the  relationship  between 
the  negative  exposure  and  the  print  transmission,  it  is  seen  that  a 
curve  of  slightly  different  shape  will  be  produced  by  printing 
machines  having  different  optical  constructions.  The  value  of  these 
variations,  as  compared  with  the  ideal  condition,  is  termed  The 
Printer  Factor'  and,  since  it  is  constant  for  any  one  machine,  may 
be  decided  upon  after  initial  tests  on  a  new  machine  and  should 
always  be  automatically  allowed  for  in  all  subsequent  calculations. 

Although  mention  has  only  been  made  of  three  possible  sources 
of  error  which  may  lead  to  the  wrong  interpretation  of  sensito- 
metric  results  when  controlling  Variable  Density  sound  recordings, 
these  are  most  generally  met  with  in  practice  and  may  be  briefly 
summarised  as  follows  :- 

(1)  The  Projection  Factor  -  or  the  contrast  ratio  between 
what  is  put  into  the  sound  reproducing  optical  system 
and  what  arrives  at  the  photo-cell. 

(2)  Failure  of  the  Reciprocity  Law  -  or  the  difference  in 
density  between  exposures  of  high  intensity  over  short 
periods  of  time  and  exposures  of  low  intensity  over 
long  periods  of  time  although,  in  both  cases,  the  product 
of  intensity  and  time  may  be  equal. 

(3)  The  Printer  Factor  -  or  difference  in  density  produced 
on  the  positive  copies  by  various  printers  although  the 
inherent  brightness  at  all  the  negative  printing  apertures 
may  be  constant. 

The  Processing  of  Variable-Width  Recordings 
When  Variable- Width  recordings  are  being  processed  it  is  more 
necessary  to  faithfully  reproduce  the  form  or  outline  of  the 
negative  rather  than  the  degree  of  density  or  tonal  values.  The 
transmission  of  a  variable- width  track  is  proportional  to  the  width 
of  the  clear  area,  and  varies  with  this  area.  The  variations  in  the 
width  of  the  positive  track  should  obviously  be  equal  to  the 
corresponding  variations  in  the  negative  and,  apart  from  this,  the 
transmission  over  the  clear  area  should  be  very  high,  the  trans- 
mission over  the  opaque  areas  very  low,  and  the  outline  or 
'envelope'  of  the  wave-form  should  be  very  sharply  defined. 


140  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

The  conditions  under  which  these  requirements  are  obtained 
are  different  from  one  type  of  recording  head  to  another  and  also 
vary  with  the  sensitometric  conditions  prevailing  at  any  one  labora- 
tory. However,  the  average  requirements  may  be  stated  as  follows:  - 
That  the  opaque  area  shall  have  a  density  of  2-1  at  a  gamma 
value  of  2-  7  -  3  •  0.  It  is  therefore  necessary  for  the  sound  recordist 
to  provide  an  exposure  which  will  produce  the  required  density 
when  the  film  is  processed  to  the  selected  gamma,  and  also  for  the 
laboratory  to  maintain  the  processing  conditions  and  time  of 
development  to  produce  this  gamma  with  the  type  of  film  and 
solutions  available. 

The  positive  print  is  developed  to  a  gamma  of  from  2-3-2-6, 
but  the  density  is  usually  0-5-0-6  lower  than  that  of  the  negative. 
For  example,  if  the  unmodulated  density  of  the  negative  is  2-1, 
then  the  density  of  the  positive  print  would  be  approximately  1-5 
Once  the  necessary  conditions  have  been  established  and  the 
required  exposure  and  development  has  been  obtained,  it  is  the 
responsibility  of  the  laboratory  to  control  the  processing  operations 
to  maintain  these  conditions  throughout  the  entire  production. 

The  foregoing  brief  outline  of  the  application  of  sensitometric 
control  methods  to  the  processing  of  sound  tracks  has  merely  been 
included  to  demonstrate  the  various  applications  of  sensitometry 
within  the  motion  picture  field.  As  will  be  realised  when  'Sound 
Film  Processing'  is  studied  (chapter  8),  the  brief  outline  given  here 
is  in  no  way  a  complete  picture  of  the  problem  or  its  solution. 


CHAPTER  5 

PRINTING   MOTION   PICTURE   FILM 


General  Consideration 

The  Positive  copy  from  original  negative  films  may  be  made  in 
two  ways,  firstly  by  taking  a  straight  print  directly  from  the  nega- 
tive material  which  actually  passed  through  the  camera  or,  secondly, 
by  preparing  from  the  original  camera  film  a  'duplicate  negative* 
from  which  the  many  copies  required  for  general  cinema  'release* 
may  be  taken. 

The  second  method  is  now  almost  universally  used  in  studio 
production  since  it  offers  many  advantages  over  the  straight- 
forward copying  method.  Although  it  is  now  very  unusual  for  a 
cameraman  to  produce  a  negative  which  is  very  badly  exposed, 
it  is  an  impossibility  to  produce  a  whole  series  of  shots  and  to 
expect  all  to  be  printed  with  equal  success  without  adjusting  the 
intensity  of  the  printing  light.  It  is  also  impossible  to  include  in 
the  original  negative  all  the  transition  effects,  such  as  'lap  dissolves' 
and  'wipes',  which  occur  between  scenes  in  the  final  prints. 
Although  cameras  are  fitted  with  means  for  producing  many  of 
these  effects  it  is  obviously  impractical  to  use  them  for  normal 
story  production.  As  was  mentioned  when  descriptions  of  the 
camera  mechanism  were  given  (Chapter  2),  film  productions  are 
not  shot  in  sequence,  and  the  final  arrangement  of  the  negative 
consists  of  a  series  of  individual  strips  of  film,  each  containing  one 
scene,  and  all  joined  together  in  their  correct  sequence. 

For  these  reasons  it  will  be  obvious  that  the  original  joined 
negative  would  not  stand  up  to  the  strain  imposed  by  making  a 
large  number  of  copies  and,  for  other  reasons  of  convenience  and 
as  a  measure  to  safeguard  the  original  film,  it  is  necessary  to  produce 
duplicate  negatives  from  which  the  copies  may  be  made.  A  further 
consideration  is  that  an  original  negative  represents  a  very  con- 
siderable amount  of  capital  and,  in  consequence,  all  originals  are 
insured.  If  the  producers  are  able  to  guarantee  that  these  original 

141 


142  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

negatives  will  only  be  used  to  make  one  or  two  copies,  from  which 
to  produce  duplicate  negatives,  the  insurance  rates  are  usually 
reduced.  At  first  this  may  seem  a  very  small  point  but,  when 
thousands  of  feet  of  film,  representing  many  hours  of  work  by 
highly  paid  artists,  are  involved  these  considerations  are  very 
well  worth  while. 

The  normal  practice  in  carrying  film  production  from  the 
negative  to  the  final  positive  stage  is  therefore  as  follows:  - 
Firstly,  a  rough  editing  positive  copy  is  made  from  each  negative  - 
this  may  be  that  copy  which  is  used  when  viewing  the  daily 
'rushes'  or  check  tests  on  the  previous  day's  shooting,  or  may  be  a 
separate  copy  specially  made  for  the  purpose.  This  copy  is  cut 
and  re-arranged  until  the  desired  effects  are  achieved  and  it  is 
then  decided  at  which  points  special  transitions  and  effects  shall 
be  introduced.  The  transition  effects  and  special  trick  work  are 
carried  out  on  a  very  complicated  optical  printing  machine  which 
will  be  described  later,  at  the  moment  it  is  only  necessary  to 
remember  that  such  effects  can  be  made. 

A  master  duplicate  negative  is  then  made  to  match  the  selected 
positive  prints  and,  at  the  same  time,  those  special  effects  are  incor- 
porated into  this  negative.  With  some  processes  it  may  be  necessary 
to  make  more  than  one  duplicate  negative  to  produce  the  desired 
results.  If  only  one  duplicate  negative  is  to  be  made  it  is  possible 
to  vary  the  exposure  for  each  scene  so  that  the  resultant  duplicate 
will  be  well  balanced  and  may  be  printed  without  further  adjusting 
the  light  value  in  the  printer  as  each  shot  is  copied.  If  more  than 
one  duplicate  negative  is  being  made  the  exposure  balancing  may 
be  carried  out  at  the  most  convenient  stage  in  the  process,  The 
final  rolls  of  balanced  duplicate  negative,  from  which  the  release 
prints  will  be  made,  are  usually  approximately  1,000  feet  (304*8 
metres)  in  length. 

From  the  foregoing  very  brief  outline  it  will  be  apparent  that 
any  film  printing  machine  must  fulfill  the  following  requirements:  - 
(1)  The  exposure  given  to  each  frame  must  be  very  accurate  and 
consistent  from  frame  to  frame.  (2)  Both  negative  and  positive  films 
must  obviously  be  moved  forward  in  exact  synchronism.  (3) 
Provision  must  be  made  to  control  the  degree  of  exposure  given 
to  each  shot  to  enable  a  balanced  print  to  be  produced  from 
negatives  of  varying  density.  Modern  film  printing  machinery 
may  be  divided  into  two  main  groups.  Firstly,  those  machines 
used  to  introduce  the  many  complicated  trick  effects  into  shots 
which  have  been  taken  on  normal  cinematograph  cameras  and, 
secondly,  those  machines  used  to  mass-produce  the  many  copies 


PRINTING    MOTION    PICTURE   FILM 


143 


made  from  matched  or  equalised  duplicate  negatives.  Since  the 
second  type,  of  production  machines,  are  more  easily  understood, 
these  will  be  described  first  and  will  then  be  followed  by  details 
of  the  more  complicated  optical  effect  printers. 

The  production  printing  machines  may  be  divided  into  five 
main  groups:  - 

(1)  Intermittent,  or  step- by-step,  contact  printers. 

(2)  Intermittent,  or  step- by-step,  optical  printers. 

(3)  Continuous  rotary  contact  printers. 

(4)  Continuous  rotary  optical  printers. 

(5)  Continuous  rotary  contact  printers  to  print  both  picture 
and  sound. 


Fig.  60. — The  intermittent  contact  printing  mechanism. 


Intermittent  Contact  Printers 

The  basic  principles  of  the  intermittent,  or  step-by-step,  contact 
printer  are  seen  in  Figure  60.  The  processed  negative  film  'N\ 
together  with  the  unexposed  positive  film  'P',  are  fed  over  a  con- 
tinuously rotating  sprocket  wheel  'F  and,  after  forming  a  loop, 
pass  in  close  contact  through  a  lensioned  gate  'G*  in  which  an 


144 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  61. — The  intermittent  optical  printing  mechanism. 

aperture,  equal  in  size  to  the  picture  area,  admits  light  from 
source  'L\  via  condenser  lenses  'C\  After  forming  a  second  loop 
below  the  gate  the  films  pass  under  a  take-up  sprocket  "T  and  then 
separate,  the  negative  being  spooled  up  at  'Ni'  and  the  positive 
at  'Pi*. 

The  films  are  both  moved  intermittently  through  the  gate  by  a 
claw  mechanism  'K\  of  which  the  variations  in  design  are  as 
numerous  as  those  found  in  camera  mechanisms.  Whilst  the  films 
are  being  moved  forward  a  rotating  shutter  'S'  cuts  off  the  light 
from  the  printing  aperture  but  is  so  designed  that,  immediately 
the  claw  has  completed  the  forward  stroke,  the  clear  section  of 
the  shutter  disc  is  level  with  the  aperture  and  the  next  picture  will 
therefore  be  printed. 


Intermittent  Optical  Printers 

Figure  61  shows  in  outline  the  layout  of  the  intermittent  or  'step' 
optical  printer.  Light  from  the  source  'L'  is  focused  by  means  of 
the  condenser  lens  SC  onto  the  objective  lens  'O'.  An  image  of 
the  negative  picture  'F'  is  focused  onto  the  positive  film  'G'  by 
means  of  the  objective  lens  '0\  Shutter  'S'  is  rotated  to  interrupt 
the  light  beam  whilst  the  two  films  are  moved  forward  by  an  amount 
equal  to  one  picture.  In  this  outline  drawing  only  simple  link 
claw  mechanisms  have  been  shown  at  T  and  *K\  As  in  camera 
mechanisms,  it  is  necessary  to  provide  the  usual  feed  sprocket* 


PRINTING   MOTION   PICTURE  FILM  1 45 

'M',  the  hold-back  sprockets  *N\  the  supply  spools  *P'  and  the 
take-up  spools  'Q\ 

An  optical  step  printer  has  advantages  over  the  contact  machine 
previously  described  and  has  a  wider  field  of  application.  Many 
occasions  arise  when  it  is  desirable  to  'stretch'  an  original  negative, 
that  is,  assuming  an  old,  silent  negative,  is  required  to  be  printed 
into  a  sound  film  -  such  a  state  of  affairs  often  arises  when  old 
famous  scenes  are  required  for  a  modern  historical  film  -  it  will  be 
necessary  to  run  the  final  print  at  24  frames  per  second,  in  order  to 
maintain  correct  sound  reproduction.  However,  the  original  old 
negative  was  almost  certainly  'shot'  at  16  or  less  frames  per  second. 
If  the  speed  of  the  original  is  merely  increased  the  action  will 
appear  too  fast.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  so  gear  the  printer  that 
24  pictures  are  moved  through  the  positive  head  every  time  16 
pictures  are  moved  through  the  negative  head.  This  is  done  by 
printing  two  copies  of  every  other  frame  throughout  the  negative 
film.  Obviously,  such  an  adjustment  would  be  impossible  with  a 
contact  printer. 

Travelling  Matts 

The  introduction  of  transitional  effects  may  also  be  made  on  this 
type  of  printer,  although  it  is  more  convenient  to  use  a  more 
elaborate  machine.  Let  us  assume  that  a  very  simple  transition  is  to 
be  made  whereby  a  thin  line  passes  across  the  screen,  wiping  the 
first  scene  away  and  revealing  the  second  scene  in  its  wake.  This 
effect,  known  as  the  'Horizontal  Wipe',  may  be  made  on  the 
Optical  Step  Printer  just  described  by  either  of  two  methods, 
firstly  by  using  the  'Travelling  Matt'  and,  secondly,  by  using  an 
auxiliary  mask.  The  principle  of  the  Travelling  Matt  is  best 
understood  by  reference  to  Figure  62.  For  simplicity  the  six  film 
strips  shown  in  this  figure  are  represented  by  series  of  rectangles, 
indicating  the  frames,  and  the  perforations  and  film  edges  have 
been  omitted.  The  strip  of  film  shown  at  'A'  and  carrying  the  title 
'PICTURE'  is  required  to  'wipe'  to  the  second  title  carrying  the 
word  'SOUND',  and  shown  at  'D'.  When  the  negative  of  'A'  is  in 
the  printer  a  strip  of  film  partially  opaque,  as  shown  at  'B',  is 
threaded  in  contact  with  the  positive  film  and  facing  the  negative. 
After  the  film  has  been  printed  this  film  strip  'B'  will  have  cut  off 
parts  of  each  picture  and  only  have  printed  those  sections  shown 
at  'C.  The  positive  film  is  then  rewound  to  the  position  at  which 
the  first  film  strip,  or  matt,  started  but  this  time  the  matt  shown  at 
'E'  is  threaded  in  contact  with  the  positive  film.  Negative  'D'  is 
then  placed  in  the  printer  and,  since  matt  'E'  will  protect  those 

10 


146 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTURE 


PICTUR 


PICTUJ 


PCTl 


PICT 


PIC 


3 


SCO© 


SOUND 


SOUND 


SOUND 


SOUND 


SOUND 


SOUND 


SOUND 


PICTURE 


PICTUR 


PlC^Uf  > 


PICT  I  0 


PICT  NO 


PIC  JND 


>l<pUND 


SOUND 


Fig.  62. — The  principle  of  "travelling  Matts' 


SCENEi 

SCENEI 

SCOCI 

SCENEI 

JsBCNC 

SCENEI 

SCENE2 

-s 

SCENEI 

SCENE2 

-* 

SCOCI. 

SCENES 

-X 

SCENES 

SCENE2 

SCENES 

SCENE2 

SCENES 

SCENE2 

SCENES 

SCENE4 

SCENE3 

SCENE4 

SCENE3 

SCENE  4 

58fe! 

SCENES 

SCENE* 

SCENES 

SCENE  4 

SCENES 

SCENE  4 

SCENES 

SCENE6 

SCENES 

SCENE6 

SCOC5 

SCENE6 

A  B  C  0 

Fig.  63.— Travelling  Matts  in  detail. 


PRINTING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  147 

areas  which  were  previously  exposed,  only  the  complementary 
section  of  each  frame  will  be  printed  and  the  entire  result  will  be 
as  seen  at  'P. 

In  practice  it  is  not  possible  to  rewind  each  scene  and  insert 
every  matt  as  and  when  required  and,  when  a  number  of  tran- 
sitions appear  in  a  roll  of  film  and,  if  the  only  available  machine 
with  which  to  make  them  is  the  Optical  Step  Printer,  the  more 
usual  method  is  to  prepare  two  complete  travelling  matts,  each 
as  long  as  the  duplicate  negative  which  is  to  be  copied.  The 
actual  technique  is  more  easily  understood  from  Figure  63.  The 
negative  is  divided  into  two  lengths  so  that  alternate  scenes  are 
contained  in  each  roll,  for  example,  scenes  1,  3,  5,  7,  etc.,  are 
contained  in  roll  'A',  and  scenes  2,  4,  6,  8,  etc.,  are  contained 
in  roll  *B\  For  convenience  in  the  illustration  the  scene  lengths 
have  been  greatly  reduced,  as  also  have  the  times  taken  to  complete 
the  transitions. 

Travelling  Matt  'C*  is  threaded  in  contact  with  either  the  negative 
'A'  or  the  positive  film  onto  which  the  complete  picture  is  to  be 
printed.  The  machine  is  then  set  in  motion  and  the  entire  roll  of 
negative  'A'  is  printed  without  interruption.  As  the  work  proceeds 
scene  '1'  will  be  printed  quite  normally  until  frames  *E\  'P  and 
'G*  are  reached,  the  corresponding  frames  'H',  'J*  and  'K'  in  matt 
4C  will  then  mask  off  increasing  sections  of  the  picture  until  it  is 
entirely  covered.  From  this  point  the  matt  'C  remains  opaque 
for  a  distant  dependent  upon  the  length  of  scene  '2'  in  negative 
'B\  and  a  corresponding  length  of  spacing  (equal  in  length  to 
scene  '2*  minus  the  distance  occupied  by  the  transition  at  each 
end  of  this  scene)  is  inserted  between  scenes  '1'  and  '3'  in  negative 
*A\  This  length  of  spacing  is  also  equal  in  length  to  the  opaque 
film  between  'K'  and  'L'  in  matt  *C\  On  reaching  frame  *L\ 
matt  'C,  the  first  part  of  the  first  frame  in  scene  *3\  negative  'A', 
will  be  exposed,  and  as  the  film  progresses  the  matt  'L\  'M*  and 
*N'  will  gradually  open  until  the  complete  picture  area  is  exposed. 

By  now  the  resultant  positive  film  will  contain  scene  T,  closing 
off  to  no  exposure  at  the  tail,  a  length  of  unexposed  stock  and 
then  scene  '3',  opening  up  with  the  desired  effect.  By  running  the 
entire  roll  of  negative  'A'  and  matt  'C  it  is  obvious  that  the  positive 
copy  will  then  contain  every  other  scene  of  the  final  picture 
opening  and  closing  with  the  required  effects,  but  separated  by 
distances  of  unexposed  film.  The  positive  film  is  then  rewound 
and  matt  'D'  is  accurately  located  either  with  the  positive  or  with 
the  negative  'B\  which  now  replaces  negative  'A'  in  the  printer. 
Since  the  leading  edge  of  the  positive  film  already  carries  scene 


14*  PRINCIPLES   OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 

*V9  this  is  protected  from  iurthei  exposure  by  a  length  of  opaque 
film  'P'  in  matt  'D'.  On  reaching  frame  'R',  in  matt  'D\  the 
opaque  area  is  reduced  by  a  distance  exactly  equal  to  section  'H' 
in  matt  'C\  It  must  be  realised  that  the  clear  section  in  frame  'R' 
is  equal  to  the  opaque  section  in  frame  'H'  and  also  equal  to  the 
section  of  scene  T  which  was  previously  masked  off.  It  is  therefore 
obvious  that  the  clear  section  'R',  matt  'D',  reveals  a  section  of 
unexposed  positive  film  onto  which  the  first  part  of  scene  '2', 
negative  'B',  will  be  printed.  In  a  similar  manner  frames  'T'  and 
'U'  complete  the  transition  and  permit  progressive  sections  of 
scene  '2'  to  be  printed  into  the  spaces  left  in  the  positive  film  when 
scene  '1'  was  previously  masked  off  by  matt  *C\  The  required 
length  of  clear  matt  film  between  'IT  and  'V  permits  the  whole  of 
scene  '2'  to  be  printed  normally  and  then,  since  the  opaque  area 
closes  across,  scene  '2'  will  be  cut  away  in  synchronism  with  the 
parts  of  scene  '3'  which  were  previously  printed  in  by  matt  'C. 

Two  important  points  must  be  remembered  when  preparing 
this  type  of  travelling  matt.  Firstly,  frames  'E',  *F  and  'G'  in 
negative  'A*  may  be  any  length,  such  as  30  or  40  frames,  dependent 
upon  the  speed  of  the  transition,  but  the  frames  corresponding 
to  this  section,  namely  'S',  'W  and  'X'  in  negative  'B'  must  be 
precisely  equal  in  length.  It  is  therefore  important  that  the  camera- 
man should  'over-shoot'  those  scenes  which  are  to  open  or  close 
with  transitions  in  order  to  provide  sufficient  film  before  the  import- 
ant action  takes  place  and  in  which  to  accommodate  the  effects.  The 
second  point  is  that  both  negatives  and  travelling  matts  must  be 
accurately  marked  at  the  head  of  each  roll  with  a  'starting'  frame, 
and  the  positive  film  must  also  be  marked  in  a  similar  manner 
once  it  has  been  threaded  into  the  printer  to  commence  the  first 
operation.  By  this  means  it  is  possible  to  maintain  synchronism 
between  all  films,  regardless  of  the  number  of  times  they  are 
rewound  or  the  interval  between  each  operation. 

Obviously,  this  operation  is  very  exacting  and  is  therefore 
performed  only  to  produce  a  master  positive  copy  from  which  a 
duplicate  negative  is  then  printed.  This  final  duplicate  negative 
will  then  contain  all  the  scenes  in  their  correct  relationship, 
together  with  all  the  necesssary  transitions  already  completed. 
Such  a  duplicate  negative  may  then  be  used  to  print  many  release 
copies  on  the  mass-production  printers.  It  should  be  remembered 
that,  although  we  have  not  dealt  with  sound  recording  technique 
as  yet,  the  arrangement  of  the  sound  film  to  match  this  duplicate 
negative  is,  of  itself,  a  problem  equally  formidable. 

The  second  method  whereby  these  effects  may  be  produced 


PRINTING   MOTION   PICTURE  FILM 


149 


on  an  optical  step  printer  is  by  using  a  mask  which  is  operated  by 
a  train  of  gears  and  caused  to  pass  across  the  printer  aperture  in  a 
manner  similar  to  the  opaque  areas  in  the  travelling  matt.  The 
advantages  of  a  machine  which  contains  the  necessary  mechanism 
with  which  to  drive  such  a  mask  are  that  the  considerable  trouble 
caused  when  preparing  the  travelling  matts  is  eliminated  and  the 
speed  and  design  of  the  transitions  may  be  regulated  at  will.  The 
moment  at  which  the  mask  commences  to  travel  across  the  printing 
aperture  is  usually  controlled  by  one  of  two  methods.  Firstly,  by 
notches  punched  in  the  edge  of  the  negative  film,  and  which  cause 
an  electrical  circuit  to  engage  the  mask  actuating  gear  train  or, 
secondly,  by  a  parchment  card  -  very  similar  to  the  roll  used  in  a 
player-piano  -  running  at  a  very  reduced  speed  relative  to  the 
film  and  containing  slots  into  which  a  spring  loaded  contactor 
may  fall.  This  contactor  then  completes  an  electrical  circuit  which 
again  engages  the  mask  operating  gears. 


Fig.  64. — A  rotary  contact  printer. 

Rotary  Contact  Printers 

The  remaining  general  types  of  printing  machines  are  all  classified 
as  continuous,  or  rotary  printers.  The  first  of  these  is  the  contact 
printer  seen  in  Figure  64.  In  this  machine  both  the  positive  and 


150  PRINCIPLES    OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 

negative  films  are  led  in  contact  from  the  upper  supply  sprocket, 
via  a  series  of  rollers,  to  the  main  central  sprocket  'A\  by  which 
they  are  carried  past  the  printing  aperture  'B'  and  as  the  sprocket 
rotates.  Contact  between  the  two  films  is  obtained  by  holding 
them  to  a  curved  path  at  the  printing  aperture,  firstly  by  the  tension 
derived  from  the  weighted  idler  rollers  'C  and  'D'  and,  secondly, 
by  pressure  from  the  polished  steel  shoe  *E\  The  main  sprocket 
'A'  is  enclosed  so  that  light  only  reaches  the  negative  and  positive 
films  at  the  printing  aperture  and  from  the  lamp  shown  on  the 
right  of  the  figure,  via  a  condenser  lens  system. 

To  permit  the  beam  of  light  to  pass  to  the  printing  aperture  the 
shafts  supporting  the  sprocket  are  held  on  two  bearings,  one  each 
side  of  the  sprocket  faces,  so  leaving  the  centre  section  clear  of 
obstructions.  Another  method  used  to  lead  the  light  beam  through 
the  sprocket  wheel  employs  a  system  of  prisms  which  bend  the  rays 
past  the  central  shaft,  this  shaft  may  then  take  the  normal  form 
of  a  solid  central  hub.  Obviously,  in  the  arrangement  shown,  the 
negative  must  be  first  placed  on  the  main  sprocket  with  the  positive 
film  outside,  or  nearer  to  shoe  'E'.  This  arrangement  is  only 
intended  to  convey  the  broad  outline  of  this  type  of  machine 
and  many  refinements  may  be  found  in  modern  apparatus. 

It  has  been  previously  stated  that  processed  film  will  always 
shrink  to  a  pitch  shorter  than  that  of  unexposed  material.  Because 
of  this  the  negative  material  should  always  take  the  shorter 
curvature,  as  shown  in  the  figure,  and  the  design  of  the  sprocket 
teeth  must  be  such  that  film  pitch  variations  within  the  accepted 
tolerances  will  be  accommodated  without  causing  the  two  films 
to  ride  proud  of  the  sprocket  wheel  or  lose  contact  at  the  exposing 
aperture. 

Although  the  next  machine  to  be  described  is  essentially  a 
rotary  contact  sound  printer,  it  is  interesting  to  note  the  manner  in 
which  absolute  contact  has  been  obtained  between  films  of  different 
pitch.  This  machine,  shown  in  Figure  65,  is  similar  to  the  R.C.A. 
Non-Slip  Ultra- Violet  sound  printer,  and  is  used  to  print  copies 
of  sound  tracks  from  a  negative  film  onto  successive  positive  films. 
The  two  emulsion  surfaces  are  held  in  close  contact  and  the  positive 
film  is  exposed  through  the  negative  at  a  very  narrow  slit  aperture 
indicated  by  the  term  'scanning  point'  in  the  figure.  The  negative 
film  'A'  passes  from  the  supply  spool,  under  a  constant  speed  feed 
sprocket  'B',  over  a  damping  roller  'C,  under  a  'Wrap-Controlling 
Roller',  'D',  and  round  the  scanning  drum  'E'.  From  here  the 
negative  passes  over  a  series  of  damping  rollers  and  finally  to 
the  lower  take-up  sprocket  'F*.  The  positive  film  'H'  passes  under 


PRINTING   MOTION    PICTURE   FILM 


151 


NEGATIVE 


Fig.  65. — A  rotary  contact  sound  film  printer. 


the  constant  speed  supply  sprocket  'G',  under  the  guide  roller  'J', 
over  a  loop-size  controlling  roller  'K'  and  over  the  negative  film 
at  a  point  on  the  scanning  drum  *E\  The  two  films  are  held  in 
contact  by  a  spring  loaded  pressure  roller  'L\  From  this  point  the 
positive  film  passes  in  a  free  loop  to  the  lower  take-up  sprocket  'M\ 

As  is  well  known  from  the  theory  of  belt  drives  and  pulley 
wheels,  the  surfaces  of  a  belt,  when  wrapped  round  a  pulley,  are 
not  of  the  same  length  as  those  sections  which  are  not  in  contact 
with  the  pulley.  Referring  now  to  Figure  65A,  let  us  suppose 
that  belt  'A'  is  wrapped  round  pulley  *B\  The  inner  surface  of  the 
belt  (at  'C)  will  be  compressed,  a  neutral  plane  *D'  will  remain 
at  the  original  length,  whilst  the  outer  surface  'E'  will  be  stretched. 
If  a  second  belt  is  now  brought  into  contact  with  the  first  one,  and 
caused  to  curve  slightly  in  the  same  direction  as  the  first  belt,  its 
inner  surface  'G'  will  be  compressed  and  the  outer  surface  'H' 
will  be  stretched. 

It  is  generally  agreed  that  a  processed  film  is  always  shorter  in 
pitch  than  unprocessed  raw  stock.  If,  therefore,  we  let  the  first 
belt  'A'  Figure  65A,  be  the  negative  film  'A',  as  shown  in  Figure 
65,  and  seen  to  be  wrapped  round  the  scanning  drum  *E',  and  let 
the  outer  surface  'E\  Figure  65A,  be  the  emulsion  surface  of  the 
negative  film,  we  see  that  this  negative  emulsion  surface  will  be 
stretched  (it  has  just  been  stated  that  negative  films  are  normally 


152  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

shrunk  in  processing).  If  we  then  let  the  inner  surface  of  the  second 
belt,  *G\  Figure  65A  be  the  emulsion  surface  of  the  positive  film, 
we  shall  readily  see  that  this  surface  will  be  compressed  to  a  degree 
dependent  on  its  curvature. 

This  curvature  is  controlled  in  practice  by  the  roller  'K',  Figure 
65,  and,  since  the  pressure  roller  will  not  permit  slippage  to  occur, 
the  two  films  must  move  in  synchronism.  They  can  only  do  this 
when  the  positive  film  has  assumed  the  necessary  curvature  to 
make  the  apparent  length  of  both  negative  and  positive  emulsion 
surfaces  equal  at  the  scanning  point.  Obviously,  the  two  films 
will  return  to  their  normal  lengths  immediately  they  have  passed 
the  scanning  point,  and  will  then  pass  under  their  respective 
take-up  sprockets  and  so  to  the  take-up  spools.  In  practice  it  is 
found  that  the  films  will  take  some  little  time  to  gain  the  necessary 
curvature  required  to  maintain  synchronism  and,  during  this  time, 
a  certain  amount  of  slippage  will  take  place.  Because  of  this  the 
sound  prints  are  always  made  from  the  end  of  the  roll,  travelling 
towards  the  beginning.  Sufficient  leader  film  is  attached  to  this  end 
so  that  the  films  gain  synchronism  before  the  sound  track  appears 
at  the  scanning  point.  On  reaching  the  start  of  the  rolls  the  machine 
is  brought  to  rest  with  both  films  still  threaded  in  the  scanning 
gate.  The  synchronising  mark  on  the  negative  is  then  transferred  to 
the  positive  film  in  order  to  indicate  the  correct  position  in  which 
to  thread  the  picture  negative  so  that  synchronism  may  be  main- 
tained between  sound  and  picture.  The  sound  is  therefore  always 
printed  onto  the  positive  film  first,  after  which  it  is  transferred  to 
the  picture  printing  machine  to  receive  the  pictorial  image. 

The  continuous  rotary  optical  printer  is  similar  in  principle  to 
the  contact  printer  having  two  central  sprockets,  separated  by  a 
distance  sufficient  to  accommodate  a  one-to-one  objective  lens 
which  transfers  the  image  from  the  negative  to  the  positive  film. 
Remembering  the  lengths  to  which  it  is  necessary  to  go  in  order  to 
ensure  good  contact  between  the  films  in  the  rotary  contact 
printer,  it  is  not  surprising  that  the  two  main  sprockets  carrying 
the  negative  and  positive  through  the  optical  printer  must  be 
exceptionally  well  made,  and  it  is  largely  due  to  this  difficulty 
that  this  type  of  machine  does  not  appear  to  have  gained  popularity. 
A  further  disadvantage  is,  of  course,  that  the  gearing  between  the 
two  sprockets  must  also  be  of  the  same  high  order  of  accuracy  to 
prevent  optical  slippage,  or  creep,  between  the  two  images. 

However,  one  advantage  with  such  a  machine  is  that  travelling 
matts  could  be  used  in  conjunction  with  either  the  positive  or 
negative  films  whereas,  with  the  contact  printer,  it  is  not  desirable 


PRINTING  MOTION  PICTURE  FILM  153 

to  insert  a  third  film  between  the  sprocket  and  the  guiding  shoes. 
An  advantage  which  all  rotary  machines  have  over  step  printers  is 
that,  other  considerations  being  equal,  it  is  usually  possible  to 
run  rotary  printers  at  a  higher  speed  than  step  machines.  Since 
step  machines  contain  a  number  of  relatively  heavy  oscillating 
parts  it  is  usual  for  this  type  of  machine  to  require  more  frequent 
attention  than  is  the  case  with  rotary  machines. 

Newsreel  Cascade  Printers 

Another  most  interesting  machine  is  that  used  by  some  companies 
to  make  multiple  copies  of  newsreels.  A  newsreel  is  usually  only 
750-ft.  in  length,  and  is  therefore  self-contained  on  one  spool. 
One  machine  used  to  produce  these  newsreels  is  shown  in  Figure 
66  and  is  known  as  the  'cascade'  step  contact  printing  machine. 
As  will  be  readily  seen,  the  negative  film  is  threaded  continuously 
through  a  number  of  printing  heads  and  individual  positive 
printing  heads  are  arranged  to  take  copies  from  the  negative 
at  various  points  along  its  path.  In  the  example  shown  only  four 
copies  are  being  made  at  one  operation  and  the  film  paths  are 
therefore  as  follows: -The  negative  is  taken  from  the  supply 
spool  'Ni',  over  a  constant  speed  sprocket  wheel  'A',  formed  into 
a  loop  and  then  passed  through  the  spring  loaded  tension  gate  in 
the  first  printing  head.  The  negative  film  then  passes  to  the  second 
constant  speed  sprocket,  after  having  formed  a  second  loop  below 
the  printing  gate.  In  the  example  only  a  simple  link  claw  has  been 
used  to  illustrate  the  intermittent  mechanism  which  moves  both 
the  negative  and  positive  films  through  the  gate.  After  leaving  the 
lower  roller  in  the  first  printing  head  the  negative  film  is  formed 
into  a  free  loop  and  then  passed  to  the  top  constant  speed  sprocket 
in  the  second  head.  In  this  manner  the  negative  passes  through 
each  printing  head  in  turn  as  it  travels  downwards  towards  the 
take-up  roll  'N2\ 

The  first  roll  of  positive  film  is  supported  at  'Pi'  and  its  leading 
edge  is  fed  over  constant  feed  sprocket  'B\  formed  into  a  loop, 
passed  through  the  gate  (where  it  is  moved  intermittently  and  in 
contact  with  the  negative  film)  formed  into  a  second  loop,  passed 
over  a  second  sprocket  'B'  and  so  to  the  take-up  reel  'P2\  In  a 
similar  manner  unexposed  rolls  of  positive  film  are  held  in 
positions  T3\  'P5'  and  'P7',  and  each  roll  passes  over  similar 
sprockets  (shown  at  'C\  'D'  and  'E')  and  is  then  wound  up 
on  take-up  shafts  at  positions  'P4',  'P6'  and  'P8'.  Although 
the  exact  length  of  film  between  each  head  is  not  important, 
it  is  essential  to  supply  sufficient  leader  to  completely  thread 


154 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


-HEAD  2      \^      J 


Fig.  66. — Newsreel  "cascade"  printing  layout. 


the  negative  side  of  the  machine  before  the  actual  picture  passes 
into  the  first  head.  It  is  also  necessary  to  mark  this  leader  at 
definite  intervals  so  that  a  predetermined  frame  on  the  leader  will 
be  located  with  a  corresponding  frame  on  the  positive  so  that,  by 
the  time  the  picture  section  in  the  negative  reaches  each  head,  the 
positive  film  will  be  correctly  in  synchronism  with  the  sound  track 
which  has,  of  course,  been  previously  printed  on  each  positive  copy. 

Because  of  this  it  is  necessary  to  mark  each  positive  copy  with  a 
synchronising  frame  ahead  of  the  actual  start  position  and  at  a 
distance  dependent  upon  the  position  it  will  occupy  on  the  cascade 
printer.  For  example,  the  positive  film  which  is  loaded  in  head 
No.  1  will  only  require  a  short  leader  since  the  start  mark  on  the 
negative  will  be  relatively  close  but,  by  comparison,  the  positive 
film  loaded  in  head  No.  4  will  need  a  leader  of  much  greater  length 
so  that,  by  the  time  the  start  mark  on  the  negative  has  travelled 
through  four  heads,  the  synchronising  frame  in  the  positive  film 
will  be  in  position  to  meet  it. 

With  present  day  machinery  it  is  usual  to  find  that  the  sound  and 
picture  printing  machines  both  operate  at  about  100-ft.  per  minute. 
It  would  therefore  not  be  necessary  to  instal  more  than  one  sound 
printer  in  order  to  keep  a  four-head  cascade  picture  printer  fully 
occupied. 


PRINTING   MOTION   PICTURE  FILM  155 

Grading  Printer  Exposures 

One  of  the  most  important  positions  in  a  motion  picture  labora- 
tory is  that  of  deciding  the  correct  exposure  to  be  given  to  each 
scene  in  the  negative  when  positive  copies  are  being  made  on  the 
printing  machines.  It  will  be  remembered  that  the  resultant  density 
of  any  photographic  image  is  controlled  by  the  time  of  exposure 
and  the  intensity  of  the  illumination.  In  printing  operations  the 
illumination  of  the  positive  is  dependent  upon  the  density  of  the 
negative  as  well  as  the  brightness  of  the  light  source.  The  correct 
exposure  will  therefore  depend  upon  three  factors: -(1)  The 
duration  of  the  exposure.  (2)  The  intensity  of  the  light  source. 
(3)  The  density  of  the  negative. 

As  the  density  of  the  negative  increases  the  exposure  must 
also  increase,  either  by  increasing  the  time  factor  or  the  intensity 
of  the  illumination  passing  through  the  negative.  From  the  descrip- 
tions of  various  mechanisms  already  given  it  will  be  obvious  that 
the  time  of  exposure  is  fixed  by  the  mechanisms  of  the  printers 
themselves  and,  therefore,  the  only  variable  which  remains  is  the 
intensity  of  the  illuminant.  The  intensity  of  the  light-source  may  be 
adjusted  by  altering  the  resistance  in  the  lamp  circuit,  or  by 
introducing  a  variable  aperture  diaphragm  in  the  light  beam.  Both 
these  mechanisms  are  known  as  'light-change'  controls.  There  is 
little  to  choose  between  these  two  methods  although,  if  a  series 
resistance  is  used,  variations  in  the  colour  temperature  of  the  light 
will  be  caused  and  may  become  objectionable  if  colour  films  are 
being  duplicated.  The  selection  of  the  correct  exposure  to  be  given 
in  the  printer  is  known  in  England  as  'Grading  the  negative'  and 
the  operator  is  called  a  'Negative  Grader'. 

It  is  usual  to  find  21  exposure  settings  provided  on  the  resistance 
or  diaphragm  control  to  the  printer  light  source.  The  grader  is 
therefore  able  to  select  the  correct  exposure  by  altering  two  settings. 
Firstly,  on  those  printers  having  resistance  control,  he  is  able  to 
select  any  one  of  21  series  resistances  and  also  to  vary  a  main 
control  resistance  in  the  lamp  circuit.  That  is,  assuming  his 
resistances  are  numbered  from  one  to  twenty-one,  he  is  also  able  to 
vary  a  large  main  resistance  in  series  with  these  smaller  controls  and, 
for  example,  he  may  be  able  to  obtain  an  ammeter  reading  of 
from  4-0  to  6-0  amps,  with  the  'one  to  twenty-one'  selection 
always  at  position  21.  With  such  an  arrangement  it  is  usual  to 
standardise  upon  one  main  resistance  setting  so  that,  at  selector 
position  1 1 ,  an  average  negative  would  be  correctly  exposed  and 
would  therefore  leave  10  selector  positions  each  side  of  this  average 
with  which  to  balance  the  exposure  for  light  or  dark  negatives 


156  PRINCIPLES   OF    CINEMA TOGRAPHY 

without  altering  the  main  resistance  setting.  With  the  diaphragm 
type  of  light  change  mechanism,  or  exposure  regulating  system, 
it  is  again  possible  to  calibrate  the  size  of  the  diaphragm  openings 
into  21  steps  and,  therefore,  to  set  the  main  resistance  to  give  a 
good  exposure  to  an  average  negative  when  the  diaphragm  is  set 
to  the  middle  or  eleventh  aperture  size. 

Aids  to  Selecting  the  Exposure  Settings 

There  are  three  main  courses  open  to  the  grader  when  selecting 
the  correct  exposure  for  any  particular  scene.  These  may  be 
roughly  described  as  follows: -(1)  Inspection  and  selection  by 
experience.  (2)  Selection  by  comparison  with  similar  negatives 
for  which  the  correct  exposure  is  known.  (3)  By  practical  tests  on 
instruments  designed  to  make  a  series  of  exposures  corresponding 
to  the  21  settings  available  on  the  printer. 

Whichever  method  is  adopted,  the  exposure  given  by  the 
grader  is  subject  to  correction  after  a  trial  print  has  received  its 
first  viewing  at  the  studio.  Unless  the  grader  has  had  very  consider- 
able experience  with  the  positive  film  used  to  make  the  prints,  with 
the  machines  at  his  particular  laboratory  and  with  the  type  of 
photography  practised  by  the  cameraman  who  made  the  negatives, 
he  may  have  considerable  difficulty  in  estimating  the  correct 
exposure  setting  required  to  produce  the  most  satisfactory  prints 
from  his  negatives. 

For  these  reasons  it  is  now  usual  to  find  either  one  of  the 
following  methods  used  in  present  day  laboratories.  The  first 
method  is  one  of  comparison  and  the  machine  used  for  this 
purpose  is  seen  in  Figure  67.  This  figure  shows  a  plan  view  of  the 
instrument  which  is  seen  to  consist  essentially  of  a  rectangular  box 
'B',  upon  which  are  mounted  a  supply  spool  'S\  holding  the 
film  which  is  to  be  graded,  a  take-up  spool  'W',  to  accommodate 
the  film  after  grading,  and  two  sprocket  wheels  *F  and  "F, 
used  to  carry  the  film  past  an  observation  window  'N\  To  the  left 
of  this  window  is  mounted  a  large  disc  'D'  having  21  apertures 
cut  in  it,  each  exactly  the  size  of  one  picture.  Each  aperture  is 
numbered  from  one  to  twenty-one,  and  contains  a  sample  negative 
which,  by  experience,  was  found  to  be  correctly  exposed  at  the 
light  setting  indicated  by  the  number  printed  alongside  the  picture. 
An  opal  screen  'O'  is  mounted  below  the  window  'N'  and  also 
below  a  second  window  4M\  so  that  a  light  source  within  the  box 
*B'  illuminates  both  apertures. 

In  operation  the  film  to  be  graded  is  moved  forward  until  one 
frame  of  the  first  scene  is  correctly  aligned  with  window  *N', 


PRINTING    MOTION   PICTURE   FILM 


157 


disc  'D'  is  then  rotated  until,  by  inspection,  the  sample  negative 
which  most  nearly  matches  the  scene  frame  is  located.  The 
number  corresponding  to  this  sample  will  then  indicate  the  most 
useful  exposure  setting.  It  should  be  noticed  that  the  words 
'Correct  exposure  setting'  have  been  avoided.  This  has  been  done 
to  draw  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  mechanism  can  only  give 
a  very  good  approximation  to  the  correct  exposure.  The  mechanism 
is  incapable  of  doing  more  than  this  since  it  does  not  make  any 
allowances  for  particular  lighting  techniques  used  by  the  camera- 
man. However,  after  a  little  practice  and  after  viewing  several 
trial  prints,  the  grader  will  quickly  learn  to  use  the  setting  given 
by  the  instrument  merely  as  a  close  guide  to  be  modified  as  dictated 
by  experience  previously  gained. 

■  n 


Fig.  67.— Comparator  for  printer  grading. 


It  should  perhaps  be  mentioned  here  that  many  attempts  have 
been  made  to  devise  a  photo-electric  exposure  calculator  in  which 
the  total  amount  of  light  transmitted  through  the  negative  is  caused 
to  operate  a  meter,  calibrated  in  steps  of  printer  light  control. 
Unfortunately  this  type  of  instrument  totally  disregards  the  nature 
of  the  picture  since,  for  example,  the  amount  of  light  passed  through 
a  negative  divided  into  two  sections  of  equal  area,  one  section  being 
completely  opaque  and  the  other  perfectly  transparent,  would  be 


158  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

equal  to  a  total  light  passed  through  a  certain  negative  of  more 
or  less  uniform  medium  density  over  its  complete  area.  Obviously 
two  such  negatives  could  not  be  printed  at  equal  light  settings. 
However,  experiments  as  yet  unpublished  show  surprisingly 
encouraging  results  can  be  obtained  by  photo-electric  means. 

The  most  certain  method  whereby  the  correct  exposure  may 
be  obtained  is  by  making  a  trial  print  of  twenty-one  successive 
frames  from  each  scene  and  exposing  each  frame  to  a  degree 
corresponding  to  the  twenty-one  settings  available  in  the  printing 
machine.  These  exposures  are  not  made  on  the  printing  machine 
itself,  but  on  an  instrument  known  as  a  'motion  picture  timer', 
which  is  a  compact  type  of  sensitometer  designed  to  make  a  series  of 
consecutive  exposures  through  the  negative  film  onto  the  positive, 
each  exposure  corresponding  in  intensity  to  the  steps  on  the 
printing  machine.  Two  main  types  of  motion  picture  timing 
devices  are  available.  Firstly,  those  in  which  the  exposure  is  altered 
by  varying  the  intensity  of  the  illuminant  and,  secondly,  those  in 
which  the  time  factor  is  altered. 

In  the  first  group  several  instruments  are  available  which 
contain  a  glass  tablet  carrying  a  series  of  rectangular  areas  equal 
in  size  to  a  motion  picture  frame.  Each  area  consists  of  a  neutral 
density  of  known  amount,  and  each  is  progressively  darker  than 
its  predecessor,  thus  resembling  a  sensitometric  strip  in  appearance. 
By  printing  through  this  tablet,  from  the  negative  to  the  positive, 
the  exposure  of  each  frame  on  the  positive  film  will  be  controlled 
by  the  stepped  tablet  which  is,  of  course,  between  the  two  films 
and  the  light  source.  With  such  an  instrument  it  is  necessary  to 
adjust  the  intensity  of  the  light-source  so  that  the  exposures  given 
to  the  films  are  accurately  matched  with  the  exposures  obtainable 
in  the  printing  machine.  Since  it  has  been  pointed  out  that  the 
twenty-one  possible  exposures  on  the  printing  machine  increase  by 
controlled  amounts,  it  is  only  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  neutral 
densities  in  the  timing  device  increase  by  similar  amounts  and 
that  the  illuminant  is  provided  with  a  resistance  adjustment  with 
which  to  balance  the  two  results. 

A  very  popular  instrument,  known  as  the  'Cinex  Timer',  is  used 
extensively  throughout  the  industry  and  belongs  to  the  second 
group  of  instruments,  or  those  which  depend  upon  varying  the 
time  factor  to  obtain  a  series  of  increasing  exposures.  The  Cinex 
Timer  contains  a  drum  which  is  rotated  by  a  hand-operated 
spring  loading  mechanism.  This  drum  carries  eleven  slots,  each 
being  equal  in  width  to  the  height  of  a  single  frame  on  the  film. 
Obviously,  since  a  drum  is  used,  it  is  impossible  to  employ  twenty- 


PRINTING   MOTION   PICTURE   FILM  159 

one  slots  to  correspond  to  twenty-one  successive  frames,  since 
the  drum  would  then  become  too  fragile  to  be  practical.  It  is 
therefore  arranged  that  the  eleven  slots  correspond  to  every  other 
frame  along  a  strip  of  film  twenty-one  frames  in  length,  thus 
leaving  the  material  of  the  drum  between  each  slot  equal  in  width 
to  one  frame. 

The  length  of  each  slot  is  adjustable  and  may  be  arranged  to 
give  an  exposure  which  corresponds  with  the  various  settings  on 
the  printer  light  control  device.  It  will  therefore  be  apparent  that 
the  Cinex  Timer  contains  a  slotted  drum  very  similar  to  that  used 
in  some  types  of  sensitometer.  The  light  source,  located  within  the 
drum  and  passing  through  a  platten  in  which  both  negative  and 
positive  films  are  held  in  contact,  is  also  adjustable  and  should  be 
arranged  to  correspond  with  that  used  in  the  printing  machine. 
Exposures  are  made  by  rotating  the  hand-turn  control  through  one 
complete  revolution.  The  first  half  of  this  revolution  winds  a 
driving  spring  which  is  released  during  the  remainder  of  the  revolu- 
tion, thus  causing  the  drum  to  rotate  a  full  turn  and  so  make  a 
series  of  exposures  through  the  negative. 

Should  the  intensity  of  illumination  used  in  any  timing  device 
be  considerably  lower  than  that  used  in  the  printing  machine  the 
exposure  values  given  by  the  timer  will  not  produce  the  most 
satisfactory  results  from  the  printer.  If  such  a  timer  is  used,  and  the 
results  produced  by  it  and  the  printing  machine  are  matched  so 
that  the  shadow  densities  of  the  prints  are  equal  on  both  timer 
and  printer  at  one  particular  exposure  setting,  then  the  densities 
in  the  high  lights  will  not  be  matched  at  any  one  step.  In  other 
words,  the  contrast  range  can  only  be  maintained  equal  between 
both  instruments  so  long  as  the  intensity  of  the  illumination  in 
both  timer  and  printer  are  also  equal. 

Light-Changing  Devices 

Having  established  the  methods  employed  to  ascertain  the  correct 
exposure,  it  is  now  possible  to  consider  the  mechanisms  used  to 
obtain  these  changes  in  exposure  from  scene  to  scene  whilst  the 
films  are  continually  passing  through  the  printing  machines.  As 
previously  mentioned,  there  are  two  main  types  of  'light-change' 
mechanisms,  firstly  those  which  control  the  intensity  of  the  light  by 
altering  the  resistance  in  the  lamp  circuit  and,  secondly,  those 
which  employ  a  variable  aperture  diaphragm,  the  size  of  which 
controls  the  amount  of  light  falling  on  the  positive  film  whilst,  in 
this  case,  the  intensity  of  the  printer  lamp  and,  therefore,  its 
colour  temperature,  are  held  constant. 


160  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Since  all  optical  printing  machines,  in  which  the  negative  and 
positive  films  are  separated  by  some  distance,  must  employ  a  lens 
system  to  produce  an  image  on  the  positive  film,  it  is  usual  to  find 
the  diaphragm  type  of  light-change  fitted  to  optical  printers 
and  the  resistance  type  of  light-change  fitted  to  contact  printers. 
There  also  exist  two  main  methods  whereby  these  light-change 
mechanisms  may  be  operated.  Firstly,  notches  cut  in  the  edge  of 
the  negative  may  be  arranged  to  engage  with  a  small  roller,  bearing 
against  this  edge,  and  so  permit  it  to  move  towards  the  centre  of 
the  film  at  the  moment  when  the  notch  is  in  line  with  the  roller. 
These  notches  are  cut  by  a  specially  designed  punch  and  are  so 
shaped  that  the  rollers  will  not  tend  to  tear  the  film,  but  will 
easily  slide  into  and  away  from  the  notch.  The  movement  of  the 
arm  which  supports  the  rollers  is  caused  to  operate  a  light  relay 
switch,  which  in  turn  operates  the  light-change  mechanism.  The 
second  method  is  one  in  which  a  strip  of  parchment,  perforated  along 
each  edge  in  a  manner  similar  to  motion  picture  film,  is  driven  by 
a  sprocket  wheel  at  a  speed  much  lower  than  that  of  the  film  but 
at  a  definite  ratio  to  it.  The  parchment  is  usually  about  3-inches 
(76-2-mm)  in  width  and  carries  slots  previously  punched  across 
this  width  in  any  of  twenty-one  positions.  Guide  runners,  fitted  at  a 
point  just  behind  the  sprocket  wheel  which  drives  this  parchment, 
carry  it  over  a  series  of  lightly  sprung  relay  switches.  When  a  slot 
in  the  parchment  is  level  with  a  relay  switch  the  contactor  will  rise 
above  the  general  level  of  the  parchment  and  protrude  above  its 
surface.  This  action  will  close  an  electrical  circuit  and  so  operate 
the  light-change  mechanism. 

It  is  therefore  likely  that  any  one  of  four  arrangements  may  be 
used  to  cause  a  change  in  the  exposure  given  to  successive  scenes. 
These  arrangements  are  as  follows:  -  (1)  Resistance  lamp  control 
operated  by  notches  in  the  film.  (2)  Resistance  lamp  control 
operated  by  perforated  parchment  card.  (3)  Diaphragm  intensity 
control  operated  by  notches  in  the  film.  (4)  Diaphragm  intensity 
control  operated  by  perforated  parchment  card.  Note:  The 
author  is  aware  that  metal  clips  have  also  been  'stapled'  into  the 
film  to  operate  a  light-change  mechanism  but  these  are  very  often 
responsible  for  much  negative  damage  and,  in  recent  years,  have 
been  losing  favour. 

It  is  necessary  to  arrange  that  these  changes  in  exposure  take 
place  immediately  the  scene  change  occurs  in  the  negative.  With 
perforated  card  controls  this  is  achieved  by  a  mechanism  either 
attached  to  the  instrument  used  to  assist  in  estimating  the  correct 
exposure,  or  it  may  be  a  separate  instrument  mounted  between 


PRINTING   MOTION   PICTURE  FILM  161 

two  film  rewind  heads,  and  containing  a  gear  reduction  unit 
between  two  sprockets,  one  to  drive  the  film  and  the  other  to  drive 
the  perforated  card.  The  gear  reduction  unit  obviously  fixes  the 
speed  ratio  between  the  film  and  the  card  and  must,  therefore,  be 
similar  to  the  gearing  between  the  film  and  card  on  the  printing 
machine. 

If  the  light-change  mechanism  is  actuated  by  notches  in  the 
film  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  place  the  film  in  a  specially  designed 
punch,  where  it  is  located  either  by  guide  rails  or  pins  over  which 
it  is  fitted,  the  notch  then  being  automatically  made  to  the  required 
depth  across  the  film.  A  further  point  which  must  be  taken  into 
consideration  is  that  all  relay  systems  do  not  respond  with  equal 
rapidity.  A  notch  made  two  perforations  ahead  of  a  scene  change 
might  cause  the  light-change  to  take  place  at  precisely  that  moment 
when  the  scene  changed  in  the  printing  gate  of  one  particular 
machine.  However,  this  same  notch  might  cause  the  light-change 
to  be  two  or  three  frames  early  or  late  when  used  in  a  different 
printing  machine.  It  should  be  understood  that  we  are  not  referring 
to  several  machines  by  one  manufacturer,  but  machines  of  several 
different  makes,  all  of  which  employ  the  notch  method  of  light- 
changing.  It  is  therefore  important  that  the  grader  should  arrange 
for  the  notch  to  occur  at  the  most  advantageous  point  with  refer- 
ence to  the  actual  scene  change  and,  not  only  should  he  take  into 
account  the  lag  in  the  relay  system,  but  also  the  time  required  for 
the  diaphragm  to  reach  the  required  opening. 

In  the  case  of  grading  cards  and  resistance  light-changing,  the 
position  of  the  slots  punched  across  the  cards  must  make  allow- 
ances for  the  lag  in  the  relay  system  and,  in  this  case,  for  the  time 
taken  by  the  lamp  to  reach  the  required  intensity  level.  Obviously, 
with  either  system  the  most  severe  case  will  occur  when  a  change 
is  to  be  made  from  the  lowest  available  exposure  immediately  up 
to  the  greatest  possible  exposure.  If  it  can  be  so  arranged  that  this 
change  is  completed  as  nearly  as  possible  when  the  actual  scene- 
change  passes  through  the  gate,  all  intermediate  changes  will  be 
equally  accurate  and,  once  the  correct  relationship  between  notches 
in  the  film  edge  or  slots  in  the  card,  and  the  actual  scene-change 
has  been  established,  this  condition  will  remain  unaltered  for  the 
particular  machine  in  use. 

A  parchment  card  3-inches  (76«2-mm)  in  width  is  large  enough 
to  accommodate  the  full  range  of  twenty-one  slots  across  its  width 
and,  as  we  have  seen  previously,  this  will  cover  an  adequate  range 
of  exposure  settings  for  most  negatives.  Since  twenty-one  relay 
switches  are  also  mounted  below  the  card  and  across  its  width,  the 

it 


162  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

light-change  mechanism  becomes  automatic  once  the  card  hat 
been  punched  and  threaded  into  the  machine.  However,  in  the  case 
of  the  notched  film,  it  is  only  possible  to  make  notches  of  one 
depth  and  these  will  always  operate  a  relay  system  in  one  manner. 
It  is  therefore  necessary  to  use  a  manual  control  which  loads  a 
mechanism  to  the  required  extent  to  bring  the  diaphragm  or 
resistance  to  the  necessary  setting,  but  which  does  not  come  into 
operation  until  the  notch  in  the  film  operates  the  relay  mechanism 
which,  in  turn,  brings  the  diaphragm  or  resistance  to  the  pre- 
arranged position.  Such  mechanisms  are  known  as  'Semi-auto- 
matic light-change  devices'  and  require  an  operator  in  constant 
attendance  while  the  machine  is  printing  from  an  unmatched 
negative. 

With  this  type  of  light-change  a  small  card  is  fitted  into  a  holder 
attached  to  the  printer  in  a  prominent  position  so  that  it  may  be 
easily  read  by  the  operator.  This  card  carries  a  list  of  numbers  from 
one  to  twenty-one  in  any  order,  dependent  upon  the  grading  of  the 
film,  and  repeated  as  often  as  necessary.  For  example,  if  the  card 
reads  as  follows:  -  6,  4,  7,  9,  etc.,  this  would  indicate  that  the 
first  scene  should  be  printed  at  'light  6',  the  second  scene  at  'light 
4',  the  third  at  'light  T  and  the  fourth  at  'light  9'.  The  operator  is 
therefore  required  to  set  the  selector  lever  firstly  to  a  position 
marked  '6'  and  immediately  the  first  notch  in  the  negative  passes 
the  edge  roller,  the  relay  system  will  come  into  operation  and 
set  the  exposure  control  to  the  sixth  intensity  level. 

A  distinct  warning  'buzz'  is  created  by  the  operation  of  solenoids 
in  the  circuit  and,  by  such  noise,  the  operator  is  informed  that  the 
light-change  has  taken  place.  He  then  immediately  sets  the  selector 
lever  to  position  '4'  (the  exposure  required  for  the  next  scene). 
However,  the  printer  will  continue  to  operate  at  exposure  level  '6* 
until  the  second  notch  passes  through  the  relay  control,  when  the 
exposure  will  then  be  changed  to  level  '4'.  In  this  manner  the 
operator  is  continually  pre-setting  the  selector  lever  to  the  exposure 
next  required,  and  the  relay  system  is  arranged  to  perform  the 
necessary  operations  to  give  such  an  exposure  immediately  the 
circuit  is  closed  by  a  notch  in  the  negative  and  as  this  notch  passes 
the  relay  head. 

One  other  light-change  system  should  be  mentioned;  this  is  a 
type  in  which  a  large  bank  of  resistances  are  previously  adjusted 
to  the  required  setting  for  each  scene  in  the  roll  of  film  which  is  to 
be  printed.  If,  for  example,  there  are  forty  light-changes  to  be  made 
throughout  one  roll  of  film,  it  is  necessary  to  set  forty  resistances 
to  the  correct  position  in  which  to  obtain  the  required  exposure  for 


PRINTING    MOTION    PICTURE    FILM  163 

each  change  in  negative  density.  The  resistances  are  very  quickly 
and  easily  set  by  merely  adjusting  the  position  of  a  sliding  member 
until  the  required  number,  again  any  number  from  one  to  twenty- 
one,  is  indicated  by  a  moving  pointer.  The  whole  bank  of  resistances 
is  mounted  vertically  behind  the  printer  or,  in  some  cases,  on  a 
separate  support,  and  contact  is  made  with  each  resistance  in  turn 
by  releasing  a  weighted  spring  contactor  so  that  it  moves  in  guide 
rails  and  from  one  resistance  downwards  to  the  next.  The  connector 
is  released  by  a  solenoid  and  relay  system,  again  actuated  by  notches 
in  the  negative  film. 

To  reset  the  machine,  if  a  second  copy  is  to  be  made  from  the 
same  negative,  it  is  only  necessary  to  lift  the  weighted  connector 
up  the  guide  channels  when,  due  to  a  ratchet  mechanism,  it  will 
easily  pass  the  various  resistances  and  come  to  rest  against  the 
first  setting  in  the  series.  Most  machines  which  employ  this  type  of 
light-change  provide  for  as  many  as  seventy  different  light- 
changes  within  one  1,000-ft  (304  •  8-metres)  roll  of  film.  Obviously, 
the  wiring  of  seventy  variable  resistances,  so  that  each  may  in 
turn  be  connected  in  series  with  the  printing  lamp,  is  quite  an 
impressive  sight! 

The  Bell  &  Howell  Fully  Automatic  Production  Printer 
By  the  year  1932  the  motion  picture  industry  had  become 
thoroughly  settled  down  to  the  production  of  first  class  sound 
films,  the  release  copies  of  which  were  being  printed  on  the  machines 
which  have  been  previously  described.  However,  to  maintain 
the  high  standards  required,  the  printer  operators  were  necessarily 
constantly  alert  to  the  possibility  of  faulty  machine  operation. 
For  example,  when  printing  one  copy  from  a  sound  film  the 
procedure  which  must  be  observed  is  as  follows:  -Assuming  the 
sound  and  picture  negatives  are  supplied  to  the  routine  printing 
department  as  completed  work  and  only  require  'straight'  copying, 
the  sound  negative  is  loaded  together  with  the  unexposed  positive 
stock  into  the  sound  printer.  The  positon  of  the  'start'  frame  on  the 
negative  is  noted,  and  a  similar  mark  is  made  on  the  positive. 
The  sound  is  then  printed  and  the  roll  of  positive  stock  is  rewound. 
This  stock  is  then  transferred  to  the  picture  printer  and  the  'start' 
frame  on  the  picture  negative  is  threaded  in  the  machine  in 
synchronism  with  the  start  mark  previously  made  on  the  positive 
stock.  By  this  means  synchronism  between  sound  and  picture  is 
automatically  obtained. 

When  it  becomes  necessary  to  make  many  copies  from  one 
subject  it  is  quickly  realised  that  the  dependence  upon  the  human 


164  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

element  to  transfer  synchronising  marks  from  one  film  to  another, 
and  also  to  thread  the  films  correctly  when  such  marks  are  supplied, 
was  a  potential  source  of  error.  With  negatives  which  required  the 
use  of  light-changing  operations  it  was  also  necessary  to  depend 
on  the  operator  not  only  to  thread  'grading-cards'  in  true  synchro- 
nism with  the  films  but  also,  in  the  case  of  semi-automatic  printers, 
to  remember  to  pre-set  the  exposure  selector  lever  before  the 
corresponding  notch  had  passed  through  the  negative  head. 

Because  of  this  the  Bell  &  Howell  Company  introduced  their 
fully  automatic  printing  machine.  This  machine  prints  both  sound 
and  picture  in  one  operation  and  also  automatically  adjusts  the 
light-changing  device.  The  machine  was  so  designed  that  the 
sound  and  picture  negatives,  together  with  the  rolls  of  matt  film 
used  to  control  the  light  changes,  remained  permanently  threaded 
in  the  printer  until  all  the  required  copies  had  been  made.  This  was 
accomplished  by  arranging  for  prints  to  be  made  from  either  the 
start  or  the  end  of  the  negatives,  that  is  to  say,  the  first  print  was 
made  by  running  the  negative  from  the  start  to  the  end,  the  machine 
then  automatically  stopped  with  the  negatives  still  threaded  in  the 
heads.  The  operator  then  loaded  a  new  roll  of  unexposed  positive 
film  into  the  machine  and,  on  re-starting,  the  negatives  then 
travelled  from  the  ends  back  to  the  start  positions  whilst  printing 
this  second  copy. 

The  operation  of  this  machine  will  be  more  clearly  understood 
from  Figure  68  which  shows  the  general  layout  of  the  mechanism 
and  the  film  paths.  Three  main  operations  are  performed  by  this 
machine,  firstly,  the  sound  track  is  printed  on  to  the  positive  film 
at  the  'Sound  Gate',  indicated  by  'SG\  secondly,  a  thin  black  line 
is  printed  on  either  side  of  the  sound  track  by  passing  the  positive 
film  through  the  'Line  Gate',  shown  at  'LG',  and,  thirdly,  the 
picture  is  printed  by  passing  the  positive  and  picture  negative 
films  continuously  through  the  'Picture  Gate',  shown  at  'PG\ 
Both  sound  and  picture  heads  print  by  contact  between  the  nega- 
tives and  positive  film  and  are  of  rotary,  or  continuous  type.  All 
the  sprocket  wheels,  by  which  the  films  are  positively  driven,  are 
indicated  by  the  letter  'A'  in  the  figure.  Spring-loaded  tension 
rollers  are  indicated  by  the  letter  'B\  and  guide  rollers  rotating 
about  fixed  centres  are  indicated  by  the  letter  'C  or  are  unmarked. 
All  the  films  are  cleaned  automatically  both  before  and  after 
passing  the  exposing  points  by  passing  them  between  a  pair  of 
nozzles,  indicated  at  'D\  containing  'IT  shaped  tubes  having  a 
series  of  fine  holes  drilled  on  the  inner  side  to  direct  a  jet  of  com- 
pressed air  against  both  sides  of  the  films.  Compressed  air  is  also 


PRINTING   MOTION   PICTURE   FILM 


Fig.  68.— The  Bell  &  Howell  fully  automatic  printer. 


used  to  maintain  good  contact  between  the  films  when  they  are  in 
the  exposing  gate,  thereby  avoiding  the  possibility  of  scratching 
due  to  spring-loaded  tension  shoes,  etc. 

As  arranged  in  the  figure  the  unexposed  roll  of  positive  film  is 
mounted  at  position  'P/  and,  after  the  complete  printing  process 
has  been  carried  out,  the  exposed  positive  is  wound  up  at  position 
T2\  In  passing  from  the  supply  spool  the  positive  film  travels 
through  a  compressed  air  cleaner  '£>',  via  a  guide  roller  *C  and 
under  a  driving  sprocket  *A\  It  is  then  held  under  tension  by  two 
rollers  *B',  one  on  each  side  of  the  sound  printing  gate  'SG'  and 
brought  to  the  correct  position,  to  ensure  adequate  wrap  at  the 
printing  point,  by  two  fixed  rollers  'C,  one  on  each  side  of  this  gate. 
After  leaving  the  sound  gate  and  passing  rollers  'C\  'B',  sprocket 
4  A'  and  roller  'C,  the  positive  film  is  guided  through  the  'Line 
Gate',  indicated  at  'LG',  where  a  black  marginal  line  is  printed 
on  either  side  of  the  sound  track.  From  this  point  the  positive  film 
passes  through  a  further  series  of  sprockets  and  rollers,  precisely 
similar  to  those  at  the  sound  gate,  but  mounted  to  guide  the  film 
smoothly  through  the  picture  printing  gate  ?G'.  Before  final 
winding  up  the  film  passes  through  a  second  pair  of  compressed 
air  cleaners  'D'  and  then  to  the  take-up  spool  'P2\ 

The  sound  negative  is  shown  in  the  figure  to  be  passing  from 
'SN/  to  *SN2'  and  is  first  led  through  a  cleaner  'D\  over  a  fixed 


166  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

roller  *C,  over  a  driving  sprocket  'A',  under  a  tensioning  roller 
*B'  and,  via  guide  roller  'C,  is  fed  through  the  sound  gate  in  contact 
with  the  positive  film  and  underneath  this  film.  A  similar  series  of 
rollers  and  sprockets  guide  the  film  downwards  to  the  take-up 
spool  'SN2'  and,  here  again,  before  winding  up,  the  film  passes 
through  a  second  cleaning  gate  'D\  The  picture  negative  follows  a 
path  similar  to  that  of  the  sound  negative  and,  in  this  case,  is 
seen  to  travel  from  TN^  towards  TN2\ 

The  exposure  of  the  sound  track  is  controlled  by  a  roll  of  matt 
film  having  a  variable  width  clear  centre  section,  bounded  by 
opaque  marginal  areas.  This  film  is  lead  over  the  sound  matt  gate 
'SMG'  which  surrounds  a  housing  containing  a  prism,  by  which 
the  printing  light  is  conducted  from  the  source  at  the  rear  of  the 
machine  upwards  to  the  sound  gate,  and  through  the  matt  film. 
To  conserve  film  the  matt  is  moved  intermittently  through  the 
gate  at  'SMG'  at  a  speed  one-quarter  that  of  the  negative  and  posi- 
tive films.  The  matt  is  therefore  lead  from  supply  spool  'SM', 
through  the  air  cleaning  gate  'D',  around  a  constant  speed  sprocket 
'A'  and  is  then  formed  into  a  free  loop  to  enable  the  intermittent 
motion  at  the  gate  'SMG'  to  operate  satisfactorily.  A  similar  path 
conducts  the  matt  film  to  take-up  spool  'SM2'.  In  a  similar  matter 
a  second  matt  film  is  used  to  control  the  exposure  given  at  the 
picture  gate,  and  travels  from  a  supply  spool  TM/,  through  the 
picture  matt  gate  ?MG',  to  the  take-up  spool  ?M2'.  This  film 
also  passes  through  air  cleaning  gates  before  and  after  passing 
through  the  exposing  gate. 

In  the  illustration  the  positive  film  will  be  completely  exposed 
when  it  is  fully  wound  up  on  spool  'P2'.  When  this  occurs  the 
sound  negative  will  have  automatically  come  to  rest  with  the 
last  few  feet  of  trailer  still  threaded  in  the  machine,  but  with  the 
bulk  of  the  film  wound  up  on  spool  'SN2'.  Similarly  the  sound 
matt  film  will  still  be  threaded  through  the  machine,  but  with  the 
bulk  of  film  on  spool  'SM2\  Both  picture  negative  and  picture  matt 
films  will  also  automatically  stop  when  still  threaded  in  the 
machine,  but  with  the  bulk  of  film  on  spools  'PN2'  and  TM2* 
respectively.  The  machine  operator  will  then  remove  the  exposed 
positive  film  and  replace  a  roll  of  unexposed  film  on  the  same  spool, 
that  is,  on  spool  'P2\  When  this  film  is  completely  threaded  the 
machine  is  set  in  reverse,  and  the  positive  film  travels  towards  'P^ 
whilst  the  negatives  and  matts  travel  back  to  their  starting  positions. 

Obviously,  the  layout  of  the  negatives  and  matts  to  ensure  that 
adequate  and  correctly  designed  leaders  and  trailers  are  included, 
together  with  the  automatic  stopping  devices,  is  a  very  intricate 


PRINTING    MOTION    PICTURE   FILM  167 

operation  and  is  accordingly  only  carried  out  by  highly  skilled 
'set-up'  mechanics.  Once  these  films  have  been  threaded  and  tested 
they  are  permanently  enclosed  within  a  dust-free  compartment 
where  they  remain  until  all  copies  have  been  made.  The  machine 
operator,  or  printer,  has  only  to  remove  the  exposed  film  from 
each  top  spool  in  turn  and,  after  rethreading  the  machine,  to 
engage  a  master  switch  which  automatically  reverses  the  direction 
of  the  drive.  Since  the  operator  has  a  relatively  simple  task  to 
perform  he  is  normally  expected  to  feed  and  mind  several  machines, 
once  they  have  been  passed  by  the  'set-up'  mechanics.  The  mechan- 
ism contains  many  alarm  devices  which  automatically  stop  the 
machine  if  any  film  becomes  caught  in  the  mechanism,  or  if  any 
film  should  break. 

Although  this  machine  may  seem  to  be  a  very  complicated 
instrument,  the  following  summary  of  its  capabilities,  as  published 
by  the  Bell  &  Howell  Company,  will  show  that  the  actual  opera- 
tion is  very  simple:  After  being  set  up,  the  machine  needs  only  to 
be  threaded  with  fresh  positive  stock  at  the  completion  of  each  reel. 
It  runs  equally  well  in  either  direction  (there  being  absolutely  no 
rewinding  of  the  negative  or  attention  of  any  kind).  One  handle 
starts  the  machine  forward  or  backward,  and  controls  all  services: 
Motor,  Break,  Air,  Lights,  Water,  Vacuum,  Tension,  Weights, 
Trip-locks  on  all  gates,  etc.  It  is  impossible  to  start  the  machine 
when  any  gate  is  open  or  when  any  lamp  is  burned  out.  The 
automatic  stop  and  motor-clutch  mechanism  prevent  film  waste 
and  damage  of  any  kind  to  the  machine.  Means  are  provided  for 
turning  the  machine  over  by  hand  whilst  it  is  being  set-up.  An 
automatic  stop  at  each  end  of  the  negative  and  an  automatic 
interlock  between  the  printing  heads  prevent  the  machine  from 
being  operated  in  the  wrong  direction. 

The  motor  and  printing  lamp  housings  are  maintained  at  a 
constant  low  temperature  by  means  of  a  water  jacketing  system. 
Mechanical  filters,  to  ensure  absolutely  vibration  free  rotation 
of  the  printing  drums,  are  fitted  to  all  the  printing  heads.  To 
ensure  that  all  those  parts  which  require  regular  oiling  receive 
attention  and,  at  the  same  time,  excess  oiling  is  prevented,  an  auto- 
matic system,  operating  from  a  drip-feed  pump,  has  been  installed 
in  the  machine.  Air  pressure  is  used  for  two  purposes,  firstly  to 
provide  a  means  for  cleaning  the  films  as  they  leave  and  return 
to  the  spools  and,  secondly,  to  ensure  good,  scratch-free  contact 
between  the  films  at  the  printing  points.  The  machine  normally 
runs  at  a  speed  of  60-ft  (18-3-metres)  per  minute,  but  this  speed 
may  be  increased  with  safety. 


168  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Control  of  the  value  of  the  printing  lights  is  obtained  by  'Travel- 
ling Matts'  which  dispense  with  the  need  for  notches  in  the  negative, 
and  which  is  exact  enough  so  that  the  same  negative  and  Travel- 
ling Matt'  can  be  used  on  any  printer,  irrespective  of  location, 
with  the  positive  assurance  of  exact  duplication  of  print  densities 
after  one  preliminary  setting  to  compensate  for  developer 
differences.  To  obtain  balanced  light  output  from  the  printing 
heads  of  several  machines  a  master  shutter  is  fitted  to  facilitate 
such  balancing  quickly  and  accurately. 

The  tension  of  the  weighted  rollers  (which  ensure  an  adequate 
wrap  between  the  films  and  around  the  printing  apertures)  is 
automatically  arranged  according  to  the  direction  in  which  the 
printer  is  running.  These  weights  are  adjustable  and  calibrated  in 
ounces  of  tension.  Further  refinements  which  may  be  added  to 
the  basic  machine  are:  -  (1)  The  provision  of  two  additional  take- 
up  spools  to  enable  'Duplex*  printing  to  be  carried  out.  (2)  The 
provision  for  printing  where  sound  and  picture  are  combined 
upon  the  one  negative. 

The  design  and  operation  of  this  machine  have  been  dealt  with 
in  great  detail  because  it  is  a  type  of  instrument  widely  used, 
although  not  so  much  in  England  (where  the  demand  for  great 
numbers  of  copies  from  one  negative  is  relatively  small)  as  in  the 
U.S.A.  The  first  large  studio  in  which  this  machine  was  given  very 
exhaustive  tests  was  the  Metro-Goldwyn- Meyer  Studio  where,  by 
1933,  a  bank  of  ten  such  machines  was  in  constant  operation. 

One  further  type  of  printing  machine  has  not  been  discussed 
since  it  is  more  accurately  classified  under  the  'Trick  Effects* 
department.  An  example  of  such  equipment  is  the  'Acme-Dunn 
Optical  Effects  Printer',  by  the  use  of  which  almost  every  known 
effect  can  be  printed  into  the  copy  (or,  more  usually,  into  the 
duplicate  negative)  in  a  semi-automatic  fashion.  From  the  brief 
outline  of  general  printing  machines  and,  in  particular,  the  Bell  & 
Howell  fully  automatic  printer,  it  will  be  realised  that  such  an 
effect  printer  is  rather  more  complicated  than  anything  yet 
described. 


CHAPTER  6 

THE  MOTION  PICTURE  PROJECTOR 


General  Considerations 

The  final  stage  in  motion  picture  production,  the  presentation, 
is  one  which  for  many  years  has  been  considered  relatively  un- 
important. This  is  perhaps  not  so  true  in  the  U.S.A.  as  it  is  in 
England,  but  in  any  case  it  is  obviously  a  very  bad  attitude.  Many 
people  have  been  in  an  audience  when  the  show  has  suddenly 
stopped  and  have  heard  the  angry  whistles  (presumably  intended 
to  remind  the  frantic  operator  that  he  isn't  the  only  person  in  the 
cinema !).  From  such  exhibitions  it  is  obvious  that,  no  matter  how 
good  the  story,  actors  or  technical  quality  of  the  film  may  be,  the 
final  verdict  upon  the  production  as  a  whole  rests  with  the  masses 
of  people  who  will  see  the  film  at  local  cinemas.  The  majority  of 
these  people  are  not  interested  in  or  willing  to  excuse  a  bad 
presentation  by  remembering  any  outstanding  work  made  on 
the  production  before  it  reached  their  particular  cinema. 

It  must  not  be  thought  that  the  mechanical  efficiency  of  projection 
equipment  is  below  that  of  studio  apparatus,  but  it  is  necessary  to 
realise  that  the  tolerances  permitted  in  the  manufacture  of  film,  in 
camera  mechanisms,  processing  equipment  and  printing  mach- 
inery, etc.  are  all  additive  and  that  the  final  instrument  used  to 
project  the  pictures  will  enlarge  errors  which  may  have  occurred 
at  any  stage  of  the  production,  usually  by  as  much  as  350  times, 
and  will  cause  a  seemingly  unimportant  variation  in  quality  to 
be  very  noticeable  when  magnified  to  such  an  extent. 

It  is,  of  course,  impossible  to  estimate  the  degree  of  technical 
imperfection  which  passes  unnoticed  by  the  average  audience, 
but  it  is  certain  that  the  ability  to  observe  such  errors  is  steadily 
developing.  A  very  good  example  of  the  manner  in  which  audiences 
are  educated  by  the  technicians  of  the  industry  is  given  in  the 
talking  picture.   The  early  'talkies'   were  received  with  great 

169 


170  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

enthusiasm  and,  in  most  cases,  the  audiences  have  always  been 
able  to  understand  the  sound  tracks  but,  if  one  of  these  early 
talking  pictures  were  'played'  to-day,  together  with  our  modern 
products  as  a  supporting  programme,  the  public  would  be  amazed 
that  it  ever  tolerated  such  harsh  garbled  noises  to  be  foisted  upon 
them  in  the  disguise  of  talking  pictures! 

Before  we  consider  any  particular  projection  equipment  it  is 
necessary  to  decide  upon  the  magnitude  of  screen  picture  un- 
steadiness which  may  be  tolerated.  Unsteadiness  is,  briefly,  the 
inability  of  the  picture  to  give  the  complete  illusion  of  the  cinema 
by  continually  vibrating  either  vertically,  horizontally  or  in  an 
oscillating  manner.  This  unsteadiness  is,  of  course,  a  product  of 
mechanical  imperfections  at  any  of  the  various  stages  in  film  pro- 
duction, and  the  'threshold'  of  unsteadiness,  below  which  it  is  not 
observed,  is  dependent  upon  optical  limitations  of  the  human  eye. 
In  this  connection  Messrs.  Tuttle  &  Reid,  members  of  the  Eastman 
Kodak  Research  Laboratories,  have  recommended  the  following 
tolerances  for  35-mm  projection:  -  Firstly,  that  the  unsteadiness 
of  the  centre  of  the  picture,  as  measured  in  the  projector  gate, 
shall  not  exceed  plus  or  minus  0-0005-inch  (0-013-mm),  that  is, 
a  total  jump  of  0  -001 -inch  (0  -026-mm).  Secondly,  that  the  un- 
steadiness of  the  corners  of  the  picture,  again  measured  in  the 
projector  gate,  shall  not  exceed  plus  or  minus  0  -001 -inch  (0  -026- 
mm),  that  is,  a  total  jump  of  0  -002-inch  (0  -052-mm).  The  corners 
of  the  picture  are  permitted  a  tolerance  twice  that  of  the  centre 
of  the  picture  because  it  is  believed  that  movement  away  from  the 
centre  of  interest  is  not  so  apparent  to  the  eye. 

Assuming  that  such  conditions  exist  in  the  average  theatre,  let 
us  see  how  such  a  vibration  will  appear  to  a  person  seated  in  the 
average  position  in  the  auditorium.  The  design  of  the  auditorium 
is  based  upon  definite  established  laws  connected  with  the  picture 
or  screen  size,  and  is  so  calculated  that  the  picture  will  subtend 
the  same  angle  to  the  average  seat  in  cinemas  of  all  sizes.  The 
recommendations  made  by  the  Projection  Practice  Committee  of 
the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers  state  that  the  distance 
between  the  screen  and  the  furthest  seat  shall  be  six  times  the  width 
of  the  screen,  and  that  the  space  between  the  screen  and  the 
nearest  seat  shall  be  0  -87  times  the  screen  width.  It  is  therefore 
seen  that  the  shorter  the  auditorium  the  smaller  must  be  the 
screen  if  the  picture  is  to  remain  in  good  proportion,  the  images 
be  clearly  defined  and  the  mechanical  unsteadiness  remain  below 
the  threshold  of  vision. 

Figure  69  illustrates  these  points  and  is  based  upon  the  architect's 


THE   MOTION    PICTURE    PROJECTOR 


171 


Fig.  69. — Average  viewing  position  in  an  auditorium. 


plan  of  the  Warner  Theatre,  Leicester  Square.  A  picture  24-ft 
(7  -32-metres)  in  width  and  18-ft  (5  -49-metres)  in  height  is  obtained 
at  a  throw  of  146-ft  (44  -50-metres)  when  the  projectors  are  fitted 
with  5-inch  (12-7-cms)  lenses  (the  size  of  the  picture  for  any  given 
throw  may  be  altered  by  using  projection  lenses  of  different  focal 
length).  Remembering  that  the  effective  image  on  the  film  is 
approximately  0  -825-inch  (20  -95-mm)  by  0  -60-inch  (15  -24-mm), 
the  magnification  in  this  case  will  be  350  times. 

Since  the  centre  of  the  picture,  measured  in  the  projector  gate, 
is  permitted  a  movement  of  0  -001 -inch  (0  -025-mm),  this  will 
appear  as  a  movement  of  0-350-inch  (8 -89-mm)  on  the  screen. 
For  the  sake  of  illustration  this  amount  has  been  obviously 
enlarged  in  the  figure.  If  the  seating  in  the  auditorium  is  laid  out 
as  previously  recommended,  the  most  distant  seat  will  be  6  times 
the  screen  width,  or  144-ft  (43  -89-metres)  from  the  screen,  and  the 
nearest  seat  will  be  0-87  times  the  screen  width,  or  21 -ft  (6'4-metres) 
from  the  screen.  The  most  important  position,  that  of  the  average 
audience,  will  therefore  be  81-ft  (24 -69-metres)  from  the  screen. 
When  picture  unsteadiness  is  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  the 
total  picture  height  it  is,  of  course,  a  constant  value  independent 
of  the  screen  size  and,  for  35-mm  professional  work  this  'unsteadi- 
ness factor'  amounts  to  0-162%.  More  recently  the  Society  of 
Motion  Picture  and  Television  Engineers  of  America  have  laid 
down  a  standard  requiring  that  overall  film  unsteadiness  shall  be 
less  than  0- 1  %  of  the  picture  width. 

From  the  foregoing  observations  it  will  be  appreciated  that 
modern  projection  equipment  is  manufactured  to  a  very  high  order 
of  accuracy  and,  as  would  be  expected  by  reason  of  the  continual 
wear  and  tear  of  running  as  much  as  ten  hours  every  day,  the 
intermittent  mechanism  employed  is  considerably  heavier  in  con- 
struction than  that  which  may  be  used  in  the  camera  mechanism. 


172 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  70. — Layout  of  typical  projector  mechanism. 

The  general  mechanical  layout  of  a  modern  projector  is  seen  in 
Figure  70  and,  although  we  have  not  considered  the  details  of 
sound  recording,  the  sound  reproducing  head  is  shown  in  this 
figure  for  the  sake  of  completeness.  The  upper  take-off  spool  is 
housed  in  a  fire-proof  container  having  a  capacity  of  1,000-ft, 
2,000-ft  or  even  more.  Passing  through  a  safety  trap  the  film  is 
drawn  continually  under  a  take-off  sprocket,  rotating  at  such  a 
speed  that  18-inches  (27 -5-cms)  of  film,  or  24  pictures,  are  fed 
through  the  machine  every  second.  Obviously,  the  actual  speed  of 
rotation  will  depend  upon  the  diameter  of  the  sprocket.  Sprocket 
wheels  are  designated  by  the  length  of  film  equal  to  the  number  of 
pictures  which  could  be  wrapped  round  the  circumference.  For 
example,  these  sprocket  wheels  may  be  'four-picture',  'six-picture' 
or  'eight-picture'  and  will,  of  course,  rotate  at  speeds  of  6,  4  or  3 
revolutions  per  second  respectively. 


THE   MOTION   PICTURE  PROJECTOR  173 

Between  the  take-off  sprocket  and  the  gate  the  film  is  formed 
into  a  free  loop,  but  immediately  below  the  gate  the  film  is  drawn 
taut  around  an  intermittent  sprocket  which,  as  its  name  suggests, 
rotates  sufficiently  to  draw  the  film  forward  by  a  distance  equal  to 
the  height  of  one  picture,  and  then  comes  to  rest  to  enable  that 
picture  to  be  projected.  From  this  point  the  film  is  formed  into  a 
second  free  loop  until  it  reaches  the  lower  constant  speed  sprocket. 
The  film  is  then  passed  through  the  sound  reproducer  which,  at  this 
stage,  does  not  require  description,  and  finally  is  wound  up  once  more 
on  the  lower  take-up  spool,  again  housed  within  a  fire-proof  casing. 

That  period  of  the  cycle  during  which  the  film  is  being  moved 
downwards  through  the  gate  is  not  suitable  for  projection,  since  it 
would  tend  to  blurr  the  definition  of  the  remaining  part  of  the 
cycle  during  which  the  film  is  stationary  in  the  gate.  A  shutter  is 
therefore  employed  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  used  in  the  camera 
mechanism  and,  once  again,  serves  to  cut  off  the  light  from  the 
film  gate.  However,  this  shutter  is  not  necessarily  always  found  in 
one  position  and,  although  shown  in  this  illustration  between  the 
light-source  and  the  film,  may  also  be  placed  between  the  film  and 
the  lens  or  just  in  front  of  the  lens. 

By  1956  the  Bauer  Company  produced  a  compact  2,000- watt 
xenon  discharge  lamp  for  standard  projection  purposes,  but  the 
conventional  light  source  is  the  high-intensity  carbon  arc,  one 
arrangement  of  which  is  outlined  in  the  diagram.  To  ensure  that  all 
the  available  light  is  directed  to  the  film  aperture  a  high  quality 
concave  mirror,  mounted  behind  the  arc,  and  a  condenser  lens 
placed  between  the  arc  and  the  film  aperture,  collect  all  that  light 
falling  within  a  large  angle  and  concentrate  it  in  a  converging 
beam  to  a  point  at  the  rear  surface  of  the  objective  lens.  The 
necessary  layout  of  the  optical  system  to  ensure  maximum  screen 
illumination  will  be  discussed  later.  Owing  to  the  intense  heat 
produced  by  the  arc  it  is  enclosed  within  a  large  lamp -ho  use,  to 
the  roof  of  which  is  attached  a  large  air  duct  connecting  it  to  some 
external  wall  of  the  operating  box  and  so  leading  most  of  the  fumes 
away  from  the  operators. 

The  heat  concentrated  at  the  film  gate  is  very  intense  and, 
because  of  this,  fire  precautions  are  taken  to  ensure  that  the  aper- 
tures in  the  spool  housings,  through  which  the  film  enters  and  leaves 
the  machine,  will  automatically  close  in  the  event  of  film  becoming 
ignited  at  the  gate.  Most  projectors  are  now  fitted  with  fire  extingu- 
ishing appliances  which  automatically  come  into  operation  if  the 
film  is  caught  in  the  aperture,  the  mechanism  stops  with  the  arc 
directed  onto  the  film  surface  or  if  the  safety  shutters  between 


1 74  PRINCIPLES   OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 

the  film  and  the  arc  fail  to  close  when  the  mechanism  is  brought 
to  rest  in  the  normal  manner.  Early  machines  were  fitted  with 
water  jackets  formed  around  the  back  surface  of  the  aperture 
plate  and  used  to  keep  the  gate  channels  cool.  This  practice 
has  been  largely  replaced  by  the  use  of  compressed  air  jets 
which  are  played  upon  the  aperture  plates  and  have  been  found 
to  be  more  efficient.  However,  one  modern  machine  at  least  has 
perfected  a  very  efficient  water  cooling  system,  viz,  the  Waltur- 
daw  V. 

Threading  the  Film  to  Ensure  Synchronism 

In  all  cinemas  where  the  pictures  are  projected  onto,  as  opposed  to 
being  projected  through  the  screen,  the  film  is  threaded  so  that  the 
picture  is  inverted  and  the  emulsion  surface  is  facing  the  arc.  When 
so  called  'rear  projection'  is  employed,  and  the  projector  is  located 
behind  a  translucent  screen,  the  emulsion  surface  is  arranged  to 
face  the  lens.  Most  people  are  now  aware  that  a  complete  feature 
film  is  not  contained  in  one  reel.  The  greatest  length  of  film  which 
the  British  fire  regulations  permit  on  one  spool  is  2,000-ft  (609  •  56- 
metres)  and  this  will  run  for  just  over  22  minutes,  The  average 
length  of  a  feature  film  is  of  the  order  of  9,000-ft  (2743-metres), 
although  this  length  may  be  accommodated  on  eleven  1,000  foot 
reels  or  six  2,000  foot  reels.  This  greater  accommodation  is  nec- 
essary since  it  is  not  always  convenient  to  cut  a  roll  at  exactly 
1,000  or  2,000  feet  and,  in  practice,  it  is  a  great  help  to  the  operator 
if  the  reel  ends  with  the  close  of  a  scene  and,  preferably  with  a 
fade-out  -  although  this  is  a  rare  occurrence.  It  is  therefore  seen 
that,  to  obtain  an  uninterrupted  performance,  the  operator  is 
required  to  run  two  projectors  alternately,  reels  1,  3,  5,  7,  etc. 
being  projected  on  the  first  machine  and  reels  2,  4,  6,  8,  etc.  on 
the  second  machine.  When  1,000-ft  reels  are  used  the  operator  is 
required  to  make  an  average  of  ten  faultless  'change-overs'  during 
one  feature  and,  when  2,000-ft  reels,  are  used,  this  operation  is 
reduced  to  six. 

In  the  silent  film  days  projector  threading  was  quite  a  simple 
matter  but,  with  the  addition  of  sound,  it  is  now  necessary  to 
arrange  'change-overs'  from  one  machine  to  the  next  to  take  place 
with  great  accuracy.  Unfortunately  the  time  taken  by  projector 
motors  to  attain  full  speed  varies  from  one  machine  to  the  next 
and,  therefore,  sufficient  leader  film  must  be  threaded  ahead  of 
the  actual  picture  to  enable  the  machine  to  reach  full  speed  before 
it  is  actually  showing  the  picture.  As  the  end  of  the  first  reel  is 
approached  two  indications  are  given  to  the  operator  and  may  also 


THB   MOTION   PICTURE   PROJECTOR  175 

bo  seen  on  the  screen  by  the  audience.  These  indications  take  the 
form  of  small  circular  black  dots  which  appear  at  the  top  right 
hand  corner  of  the  screen.  The  first  dot,  printed  on  four  consecu- 
tive frames,  indicates  that  the  operator  should  start  the  motor 
of  the  second  projector.  The  second  dot  printed  eleven  feet  after 
the  first  warning,  and  therefore  occurring  approximately  seven 
seconds  later,  indicates  that  the  picture  and  sound  should  be 
changed  over  from  the  first  machine  to  the  second. 

It  is  important  to  realise  that  the  warning  to  start  the  second 
projector  is  governed  by  the  first  machine  and,  to  ensure  that  this 
second  motor  reaches  full  speed  by  the  time  required,  the  leader 
attached  to  the  second  reel  is  numbered  at  every  sixteenth  frame 
that  is,  at  intervals  of  one  foot,  with  clear  numerals  from  three  to 
eleven.  Let  us  assume  that,  by  experiment,  it  has  been  found  that  a 
certain  projector  motor  takes  exactly  seven  feet  of  film  in  which 
to  attain  full  speed.  Films  would  then  be  threaded  in  this  machine 
so  that  the  number  '7'  appeared  in  the  picture  gate  when  the  mach- 
ine was  waiting  to  go  into  operation  and,  since  seven  feet  of  film 
separate  this  number  from  the  first  picture,  the  motor  will  reach 
full  speed  just  as  the  first  picture  is  about  to  be  projected.  If  the 
motor  required  five  feet  in  which  to  attain  full  speed,  then  the 
number  s5'  is  threaded  up  in  the  picture  gate  and  so  on,  dependent 
upon  the  particular  motor  in  use.  Obviously,  once  this  figure  has 
been  found  by  experiment,  it  remains  constant  and  most  operators 
paint  the  'motor  number'  on  the  back  of  the  lamp  house  to  serve 
as  a  reminder  of  the  correct  threading  position  for  that  machine. 

The  film  leaders  and  trailers  and  their  uses  are  more  readily 
understood  from  Figure  71  which  is  a  replica  of  the  specification 
issued  by  the  Technical  Bureau  of  the  Academy  of  Motion  Picture 
Arts  and  Science.  The  first  four  to  six  feet  of  the  reel  consists  of  a 
protective  leader  and  may  be  either  transparent  or  unprocessed 
film  stock.  The  next  four  feet  contain  no  less  than  32  consecutive 
frames  on  which  are  printed  the  film  title  and  the  'part'  number  of 
the  reel.  The  synchronising  leader  is  fourteen  feet  in  length  and  is 
divided  up  as  follows:  -The  first  two  feet  are  opaque  except  for 
one  'line-and-diamond'  design  exactly  20  frames  back  from  the 
end  of  this  two  feet  run.  The  next  frame  is  white,  with  the  word 
'Start'  printed  in  black  and  inverted.  When  correctly  threaded  in 
synchronism  the  'Start'  frame  should  be  in  the  picture  gate  when 
the  'line-and-diamond'  design  is  at  the  sound  aperture.  One  foot 
nearer  to  the  picture  than  the  'Start'  frame  is  printed  the  number 
'IT  and  then  at  each  foot  (or  at  intervals  of  sixteen  frames)  are 
printed  the  numbers  10,  9,  8,  7,  etc.,  in  this  order  and  until  the 


176 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


ACADEMY  SPECIFICATIONS  FOR  3Smm  MOTION  PICTURE  RELEASE  PRINTS 


PROTECTIVE  LEADER 

Either  transparent  or  raw  stock. 

When  the  protective  leader  has  been  reduced  to  a  length  of  foot  foot 
it  is  to  be  restored  to  a  length  of  six  feet. 

IDENTIFICATION  LEADER  (Part  Tide) 

Shall  contain  not  less  than  32  frames,  in  each  of  which  is  plainly 
printed  in  black  letters  on  white  background,  type  of  print  (See 
Nomenclature),  part  number  (Arabic  numeral  not  lest  than  1  A  of 
frame  height),  and  picture  title. 

SYNCHRONIZING  LEADER 

First  section  shall  be  opaque. 

Start  mark  shall  be  one  frame  in  which  ia  printed  START  (inverted) 

in  black  letters  on  white  background  1  2  of  frame  height. 

A  white  line  1  32  inch  wide  upon  which  is  superimposed  a  diamond 

1 8  inch  high  by  3  8  inch  wide  shall  be  printed  across  the  picture  and 

sound  tuck  area  at  a  point  exactly  20  frames  ahead  of  the  centre  of 

the  start  frame. 

Beginning  3  ft.  from  the  first  frame  of  picture,  each  foot  is'lo  bo 

plainly  marked  by  a  transparent  frame  containing  an  inverted 

black  numeral  at  least   1  2  frame  height.     Footage  indicator 

numerals  shall  run  consecutively  from  3  to  11,  inclusive. 

This  section  shall  be  opaque  and  contain  frame  lines  throughout 

entire  length  which  do  not  cross  sound  track  area. 

At  a  point  exactly  20  frames  ahead  of  the  centre  of  each  footage 

numeral  frame    there    shall    be   a   diamond   (white    on    black 

background),  18  inch  high  by  3  8  inch  wide. 

PICTURE 

It  is  recommended  that  picture  action  start  and  finish  on  fades 
wherever  possible,  otherwise  significant  sound  should  be  kept  at 
least  five  feet  from  the  start  and  finish  of  the  picture. 


MOTOR  CUE 

Shall  be  circular  opaque  marks  with  transparent  outline  printed 
from  the  negative  which  has  had  four  consecutive  frames  punched 
with  a  serrated  edge  die  0S4  inch  in  diameter.  The  centre  of  these 
holes  is  to  be  halfway  between  the  top  and  second  sprocket  holes 
281  inch  from  the  right-hand!  edge  of  the  film  with  heads  up  and 
emulsion  toward  the  observer. 

CHANGE-OVER  CUE 

Shall  be  the  same  as  Motor  Cue. 


4ft 


12  a 


a 


RUNOUT  TRAILER 
Shall  be 


IDENTIFICATION  TRAILER  (End-of  part  title) 

Shall  contain  not  less  than  32  frames  in  each  of  which  is  plainly 
printed  in  black  letters  on  white  background  :  End  of  Part,  part 
number  (Arabic  numeral  not  less  than  1  4  ot  frame  height),  and 
picture  title. 


la 


ea 


4  a 


Pkteo 


PROTECTIVE  TRAILER 

Same  as  protective  leader. 


(•tb  revision  10  10  30! 


Running  & 
Direction! 
Emuhion  up. 


Fig.  71. — Standard  film  ieaders  and  trailers. 


THE  MOTION  PICTURE  PROJECTOR  177 

number  *3*  is  reached.  From  this  point,  until  the  pictures  start, 
the  leader  is  completely  opaque.  Between  each  footage  number  a 
white  diamond  is  printed  in  the  centre  of  the  film.  It  is  recommended 
that  the  picture  section  should  start  and  finish  on  'fades'  when 
possible  but,  alternatively,  all  important  sound  should  be  kept  at 
least  five  feet  from  the  start  and  finish  of  the  picture.  In  practice 
the  operator  threads  the  film  into  the  projector  so  that  the  *  Start' 
frame  is  in  the  picture  gate  and  the  'line-and-diamond'  design 
is  at  the  sound  gate,  and  then  turns  the  mechanism  by  hand 
until  the  required  motor  number  appears  in  the  projection  gate. 
The  projector  is  then  ready  to  go  into  operation  and  synchro- 
nism between  picture  and  sound  has  been  assured. 

The  motor  cue,  in  the  form  of  a  circular  opaque  mark,  is 
printed  on  four  consecutive  frames  of  the  picture  and  twelve  feet 
from  its  end.  One  foot  from  the  end  of  the  picture  four  more 
opaque  marks  are  printed  on  consecutive  frames  to  indicate  the 
moment  at  which  the  projection  should  be  changed  over  from  the 
first  machine  to  the  second.  A  length  of  six  feet  of  opaque  trailer 
is  then  attached  to  the  last  picture  to  act  as  a  *run  out'  and  a 
further  four  feet  of  clear  film  bearing  at  least  32  frames,  on  which 
are  printed  the  'end  of  part'  titles  and  numbers,  is  followed  by  a 
further  protective  trailer  of  transparent  film  or  raw  stock  of  from 
four  to  six  feet  in  length.  In  passing  it  may  be  of  interest  to  point 
out  that  the  change-over  cues  are  made  by  punching  accurately 
located  holes  in  the  negative  film  which  will  then  appear  as  opaque 
marks  when  printed  onto  the  positive  film. 

The  Intermittent  Mechanism 

From  the  brief  outline  of  the  general  layout  of  the  projector 
mechanisms  and  films  it  is  now  possible  to  consider  in  detail  the 
various  sections  of  the  mechanism.  Quite  obviously  the  heart  of  the 
projector  is  in  the  intermittent  sprocket  which,  like  the  claw  in 
the  camera,  moves  the  film  forward  by  a  distance  equal  to  one 
picture.  This  forward  movement  must,  of  course,  be  performed 
whilst  the  shutter  is  closed.  One  may  very  well  ask  why  an  inter- 
mittent sprocket  should  be  used  in  a  projector  when  claws  and 
pilot  pins  are  used  in  camera  mechanisms.  One  main  reason  for 
this  difference  is  the  degree  of  wear  to  which  each  machine  is 
subjected.  A  second  reason  is  that  claw  mechanisms  will  only 
operate  to  the  required  degree  of  accuracy  when  pilot  pins  are  used 
and  when  the  film  is  relatively  long  in  pitch,  that  is,  the  distance 
between  the  perforations  is  in  accordance  with  the  manufacturing 
tolerances.  As  was  seen  earlier,  the  film  pitch  is  reduced  by  the 

is 


178 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHS 


rncrui 


CAMERA    SHUTTER 


PROJECTOR  SHUTTER 


Fig.  72. — Camera  and  projector  exposure  cycles. 

developing  process  and,  in  consequence,  varies  from  one  treat- 
ment to  another.  The  projector  mechanism  must  therefore  accom- 
modate films  containing  variations  greater  than  those  encountered 
in  the  camera,  but  must  project  all  such  films  with  equal  steadiness. 
A  third  and  most  important  reason  not  only  why  intermittent 
sprockets  must  be  used  in  projector  mechanisms,  but  also  why 
camera  and  projector  intermittents  are  not  inter-changeable,  is 
that  the  'rest'  period,  during  which  the  picture  is  exposed  or  pro- 
jected, is  a  much  greater  part  of  the  projection  cycle  than  is  the 
case  in  the  camera  cycle. 

In  camera  mechanisms  the  film  is  usually  at  rest  for  approxi- 
mately one-half  of  the  total  cycle  and  may  be  in  motion  during 
the  remaining  half  of  the  cycle  since  the  shutter  completely  masks 
the  film  for  approximately  170°.  If  such  a  shutter  were  used  in 
the  projector  the  picture  frequency  on  the  screen  would  be  at  the 
rate  of  24  every  second,  and  the  duration  of  individual  pictures 
would  be  approximately  equal  to  the  duration  of  the  dark  periods. 
This  condition  would  give  rise  to  very  noticeable  flicker  since  the 
'threshold'  below  which  flicker  is  apparent  is  48  interruptions  per 
second.  This  condition  is  only  true  when  the  light  and  dark 
periods  are  of  equal  duration.  The  threshold  below  which  flicker 
is  seen  when  the  time  of  opening  is  not  equal  to  the  time  of  closing 
is  raised  to  something  of  the  order  of  60  interruptions  per  second. 
The  comparison  between  camera  and  projector  exposure  cycles 
is  seen  in  Figure  72.  Two  main  points  are  drawn  from  this  figure, 
firstly  that,  in  the  case  of  the  camera,  the  film  is  only  stationary 
for  about  1 80°  -  or  half  the  complete  cycle  whereas,  in  the  projector, 
it  must  remain  stationary  for  270°,  or  three-quarters  of  the  cycle. 
The  second  point  is  that  the  camera  claw  may  take  half  of  the 


THF    MOTION    PICTURE    PROJECTOR 


17<) 


complete  cycle  in  moving  the  film,  but  the  projector  intermittent 
must  complete  this  movement  within  one-quarter  of  the  cycle. 
These  conditions  produce  a  further  reason  for  using  an  inter- 
mittent sprocket  instead  of  the  claw  mechanism  when  film  is 
being  projected. 

Many  different  mechanisms  have  been  used  to  produce  the  inter- 
mittent rotation  of  the  sprocket  wheel,  but  the  Geneva  Movement, 
or  Maltese  Cross,  seen  in  Figure  73,  is  now  used  almost  exclusively 
throughout  the  industry.  The  most  usual  form  of  Maltese  Cross 
is  seen  on  the  left  of  the  figure.  An  eccentric  pin,  mounted  on  a 
circular  flange,  is  caused  to  engage  with  radial  slots  cut  in  the 
'cross-like'  member,  as  shown.  The  sections  of  metal  between  the 
radial  slots  are  ground  to  a  radius  equal  to  that  of  the  circular 
locking  ring  mounted  in  the  'pin- wheel'.  A  section  of  the  locking 
ring,  in  the  vicinity  of  the  driving  pin,  is  removed  so  that  the  cross 
may  rotate  without  fouling  the  ring.  Immediately  the  driving  pin 
ceases  to  rotate  the  cross,  the  locking  ring  engages  with  the 
curved  section  of  the  cross  and  so  prevents  it  from  rotating.  The 
cross  therefore  remains  stationary  until  the  pin  has  completed  its 
cycle  and  is  again  entering  one  of  the  slots.  With  the  four-sided 
cross,  as  shown,  a  four-picture  sprocket  wheel  is  attached  to  the 


MALTESE    CROSS 
PROJECTOR    MOVEKCNTS 


■KXMM3    ANOU  Of 


HOfiKhO   «MGU  or   CBOM 


Fig,  73. — Maltese  cross  intermittent  mechanism. 


180  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

cross-shaft  and,  of  course,  will  rotate  one-quarter  of  a  revolution 
each  time  the  driving  pin  engages  with  the  cross. 

If  a  curve  is  drawn  showing  the  velocity  of  the  film  moving 
through  the  projector  gate,  plotted  against  the  angle  through 
which  the  driving  pin  is  rotated  in  order  to  so  move  the  film,  it 
will  be  seen  that  the  area  enclosed  by  such  a  curve  is  quite  sym- 
metrical and  that  the  rate  of  film  acceleration  is  equal  to  the  rate 
of  deceleration.  This  graph  is  shown  in  the  lower  left-hand  corner 
of  the  figure.  In  practice  it  is  desirable  to  accelerate  the  film 
slowly  so  that  the  friction  in  the  tensioned  gate  will  be  gradually 
overcome  and  the  life  of  the  film  will  therefore  be  prolonged. 
It  is  also  an  advantage  to  bring  the  film  to  rest  as  quickly  as  possible 
to  leave  a  certain  amount  of  time  during  which  it  may  settle  down 
before  the  shutter  is  opened.  This  may  be  done  by  using  a  cross 
cut  as  shown  on  the  right  of  the  figure.  Here  the  slots  are  cut 
tangentially  to  the  path  of  the  pin  at  the  point  of  entry,  and  the 
velocity-acceleration  curve  is  shown  in  the  graph  below  the 
mechanism.  This  modified  cross  was  introduced  in  America  in 
about  the  year  1920.  It  is,  of  course,  quite  possible  to  so  design 
the  size  of  the  pin  wheel  that  tangential  entry  may  be  achieved 
when  a  cross  with  radial  slots,  as  shown  on  the  left  of  the  figure,  is 
used.  However,  the  two  main  requirements,  namely  tangential 
entry  to  minimise  noise  and  wear  as  the  pin  engages  with  the  cross, 
and  slow  film  acceleration  to  increase  the  film  life,  should  be 
obtained  and,  therefore,  the  second  design  has  obvious  advantages. 
It  should  nevertheless  be  realised  that  the  earlier  mechanism  is 
capable  of  rotation  in  either  direction  with  equal  success,  whereas 
the  improved  cross  will  only  operate  quietly  in  one  direction.  It 
will  travel  in  both  directions,  but  in  the  reverse  direction  the 
driving  pin  will  cause  very  heavy  wear  at  the  walls  of  the  slots  in 
the  cross,  and  the  film  will  moreover  receive  a  greater  acceleration 
than  it  would  if  the  pin  rotated  in  the  correct  manner.  Of  course, 
this  objection  is  relatively  unimportant  since  it  is  very  unusual 
to  require  a  projector  to  run  in  the  reverse  direction. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  the  'pull-down'  must  take  place 
within  90°  of  the  complete  cycle  so  that  two  shutter  blades,  each 
90°  in  size  and  interlaced  by  two  open  sections  of  equal  size, 
produce  a  flicker  frequency  of  48  per  second  with  alternate  dark 
and  light  periods  of  equal  duration.  The  four-sided  cross  shown  in 
the  figure  certainly  operates  within  90°  but  usually  requires  a 
shutter  of  slightly  larger  angle,  say  100°,  and  to  overcome  this 
some  projectors  employ  a  six-  or  eight-sided  cross  which,  while 
still  maintaining  the  tangential  pin  entry,  will  operate  with  a  pin 


THE   MOTION  PICTURE   PROJECTOR  181 

engagement  of  60°  and  45°  respectively.  A  recent  patent  by  E.  Moy 
&  Co.,  consists  in  relieving  the  strain  which  normally  occurs  as 
the  pin  enters  the  grooves  of  the  cross.  This  is  accomplished  by 
removing  a  small  section  of  the  curved  faces  of  the  cross  over  a 
small  area  in  their  centres.  This  modification  leads  to  quieter 
running  and  reduction  of  wear  of  the  precision  ground  parts. 

Sprocket  and  Aperture  Design 

Since  projector  mechanisms  are  required  to  pass  films  which 
have  been  considerably  shrunk  during  the  processing  operations 
it  is  reasonable  to  expect  the  sprocket  dimensions  to  be  different 
to  those  in  the  camera  mechanism.  The  two  main  dimensions 
which  provide  these  tolerances  are  the  base  diameter  at  the  root 
of  the  teeth  and  the  diameter  across  the  tops  of  the  teeth. 
Maximum  tolerances  may  be  given  to  the  feed  sprocket,  but 
closer  limits  are  placed  on  the  intermittent  sprocket  and  also 
on  the  hold-back  sprocket  which,  of  course,  controls  the  film 
feed  to  the  sound  head.  Some  idea  of  the  accuracy  with  which 
these  parts  are  made  is  gained  from  the  tolerances  placed  on  the 
base  diameter.  For  the  feed  sprocket  this  may  be  machined 
to  within  plus  or  minus  0  -025-inch  (0  -634-mm)  of  the  standard 
dimension  but,  in  the  case  of  the  intermittent  sprocket,  this 
tolerance  is  reduced  to  only  plus  or  minus  0  -0002-inch  (0  -005-mm). 
To  ensure  that  films  taken  on  any  camera  may  be  shown  on  all 
makes  of  projectors,  standard  dimensions  also  exist  for  the  camera 
and  projector  apertures,  that  is,  to  control  the  actual  size  of  the 
pictures  photographed  and  also  the  mask  enclosing  the  pictures 
in  the  projectors.  To  provide  a  safety  margin  the  projector  aperture 
is  smaller  than  that  of  the  camera,  the  projector  aperture  being 
0-825-inch  (20 -95-mm)  wide  and  0-600-inch  (15-2-mm)  high 
whereas  the  camera  aperture  is  0-868-inch  (22  -05-mm)  wide  and 
0  -631-inch  (16  -03-mm)  high. 

Shutter  Types  and  Positions 

The  three  main  types  of  shutter,  used  to  cut  off  the  light  whilst 
the  film  is  being  moved  forward,  are  shown  in  Figure  74.  The 
two  disc  shutters,  seen  at  'A*  and  *B\  rotate  in  a  plane  at  right 
angles  to  the  projected  light  beam  and  therefore  cut  across  the 
objective  lens,  shown  in  the  'end-on'  position.  The  third  type, 
known  as  the  'barrel'  shutter,  rotates  about  a  centre  at  right 
angles  to  the  first  two  types  and,  in  the  illustration,  is  placed 
between  the  film  and  the  projection  lens.  Disc  shutters,  such  as 


182  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

lOBJECTiVE  LENS)  IOBJECTIVE  LENSl 


DIRECTION  OF  PROJECTON 


p©     ® 


r6Nb£NS£ft) 


Fig.  74. — Projector  shutter  designs. 


'A'  and  'B',  may  be  mounted  between  the  condenser  and  the 
film,  in  space  'D'  of  the  lower  diagram,  as  shown  at  'Si',  between 
the  film  and  the  lens  in  space  'E',  as  shown  at  'S2'  or  in  front  of  the 
lens  at  space  'F',  as  shown  at  4S3\ 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  diagram  that  the  beam  of  light  passing 
through  the  condenser  is  adjusted  so  that  it  comes  to  a  focus  on 
the  back  surface  of  the  projection  lens  and  the  position  of  the  film 
is  so  arranged  that  the  envelope  of  the  rays  is  just  large  enough  to 
cover  the  picture  area.  By  this  arrangement  the  maximum  use  is 
made  of  the  available  light.  A  shutter  placed  at  'S2'  has  the  import- 
ant advantage  that  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  rotate  through  a 
very  small  angle  during  which  descreasing  areas  of  the  picture  are 
still  projected  and,  in  consequence,  must  be  completed  before  the 
film  may  be  moved  forward.  It  is  therefore  important  to  reduce  the 
'cut-off'  angle  to  a  minimum.  Unfortunately,  a  shutter  in  position 
'S2'  is  not  very  convenient  when  the  projector  is  being  threaded 
and  a  shutter  in  position  *SJ  is  now  usually  fitted  to  most  machines 
since,  if  kept  as  near  as  possible  to  the  film  aperture  it  too  will 
only  require  a  very  small  angle  of  rotation  in  which  to  completely 
obscure  the  light  beam.  Such  a  shutter  has  the  added  advantage 
that  it  tends  to  reduce  the  amount  of  heat  which  reaches  the  film 
and  aperture  plate,  and,  in  some  machines,  is  fitted  with  fins 


THE  MOTION   PICTURE   PROJECTOR  183 

attached  to  the  opaque  sections,  in  order  to  create  a  forced  draft  to 
assist  further  in  this  cooling  action. 

The  two  shutters  shown  at  'A'  and  'B'  are  essentially  similar  in 
operation  (it  should  be  noted  that  in  each  case  the  blade  is  vertical 
when  in  the  mid-position  across  the  lens  face)  and  are  only  cut 
to  different  shapes  because  the  centres  of  rotation  are  not  both 
directly  beneath  the  centre  of  the  lens.  It  is  more  likely  that  a 
shutter  of  type  'A'  would  be  used  in  position  'S3'  or  '82',  whilst 
type  'B'  would  probably  be  used  in  position  'S^. 

Although  the  'barrel'  shutter  shown  at  'C  occupies  valuable 
space  when  placed  between  the  film  and  the  lens  it  has  one  very 
great  advantage.  When  rotating  in  the  direction  indicated,  the 
upper  left-hand  blade  will  be  about  to  close  across  the  film  aperture 
at  the  same  instant  as  the  lower  right-hand  blade  is  also  closing 
across  this  aperture.  The  'wasted  angle',  during  which  'cut-off' 
is  completed  is  therefore  reduced  by  this  shutter  to  approximately 
50  %  of  that  required  when  disc  shutters  are  used.  Unfortunately, 
it  is  usually  difficult  to  maintain  the  time  during  which  the  shutter  is 
completely  open  equal  to  the  closed  period,  which  must  be  obtained 
to  reduce  noticeable  flicker,  without  using  a  shutter  of  rather  large 
diameter  and,  in  consequence,  some  barrel  shutters  are  located 
not  in  the  position  shown  but  between  the  condenser  and  the  film 
gate.  Of  course,  the  efficiency  of  barrel  shutters  would  only  be 
exactly  50%  that  of  disc  shutters  if  the  beam  of  light  passing 
through  the  system  at  this  point  were  parallel  and,  since  it  is 
always  a  rapidly  converging  beam,  the  efficiency  is  not  quite  so 
great. 

At  this  point  it  is  well  to  consider  the  placement  of  the  condenser, 
film  and  objective  lens  in  order  to  obtain  maximum  efficiency  from 
the  light-source.  Figure  75  shows  three  arrangements  whereby  use- 
ful light  is  lost,  and  one  arrangement  in  which  the  maximum  effici- 
ency is  obtained.  In  the  arrangement  shown  at  'A'  rays  of  light  from 
the  arc  are  reflected  by  the  parabolic  mirror  and  collected  by  the 
condenser  so  that  they  all  come  to  a  focal  point  at  the  rear  surface 
of  the  objective  lens.  However,  since  the  film  gate  is  placed  too 
near  the  objective  lens,  the  cone  of  light  will  not  be  sufficiently 
large  to  completely  cover  the  aperture  and  will  result  in  very  low 
screen  illumination  at  the  picture  edges.  The  arrangement  shown 
at  'B'  is  similar  to  that  at  'A',  but  in  this  case  the  film  gate  is  placed 
too  near  to  the  condenser  lens  and,  therefore,  part  of  the  cone  of 
light  is  cut  off  by  the  aperture  plate  and  never  reaches  the  film. 
This  results  in  an  evenly  illuminated  picture  but  of  lower  intensity 
than  is  possible.  Arrangement  'C  shows  the  film  gate  correctly 


184  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

(ARC]       [REFLECTOR!  [CONDENSER!  flLM  GaTH  IQ&JECTlVg) 


Fig.  75. — Relationship  between  projector  optical  components. 

positioned  so  that  the  beam  of  light  is  just  large  enough  to  com- 
pletely fill  the  film  gate  without  any  being  lost  but,  since  the  cone 
comes  to  a  focus  before  it  reaches  the  objective  lens,  efficiency  is 
again  low.  If  the  condenser  lens  were  of  greater  diameter  and  longer 
focal  length  this  condition  would  be  improved  and  a  larger  beam 
of  light  would  be  collected  from  the  source.  Arrangement  'D\ 
is  therefore,  the  only  one  by  which  the  maximum  efficiency  is 
obtained  and  shows  the  cone  of  light  to  be  just  large  enough  to 
completely  fill  the  film  gate,  and  also  to  come  to  a  focus  at  the  rear 
surface  of  the  objective  lens. 

Screen  Brightness  and  Flicker 

The  incident  brightness  falling  on  the  screen  is  measured  in  units 
known  as  Toot-Candles',  and  the  light  reflected  from  the  surface 
of  the  screen  is  measured  in  units  of  'Foot-Lamberts'.  The 
relationship  between  the  two  may  be  shown  by  the  following 
definitions:  -  The  Foot-Candle  is  the  amount  of  light  falling 
on  a  surface  one  foot  away  from  the  source  of  one  standard  candle 
power.  If  this  surface  has  a  reflectivity  of  80  %,  then  we  will  have 
a  screen  brightness  of  0  -8  Foot-Lamberts. 

If  the  screen  brightness  is  measured  by  holding  the  photo- 
meter in  front  of  the  screen,  and  pointing  it  towards  the  projector, 
the  measurement  will  be  in  Foot-Candles  but,  if  the  photometer  is 


THE  MOTION  PICTURE  PROJECTOR  185 

facing  the  screen,  and  thereby  taking  into  account  both  the 
condition  of  the  screen  and  its  general  quality,  the  measurement 
will  be  in  Foot-Lamberts.  The  brightness  of  a  screen  is  usually 
measured  whilst  the  projector  is  running,  since  the  shutter  greatly 
reduces  the  intensity  of  the  light  beam.  The  screen  brightness  may 
vary  considerably  from  one  part  of  the  screen  to  another.  It  is 
therefore  usual  to  measure  the  brightness  in  the  four  corners  and 
also  in  the  centre,  and,  by  adding  all  readings  together  and 
dividing  the  total  by  five,  to  arrive  at  the  average  reading,  a  figure 
known  as  the  'mean  screen  brightness'  is  obtained. 

The  brightness  of  the  reflected  beam,  that  is  as  measured  with 
the  photometer  facing  the  screen,  varies  in  this  country  from  2  to 
15  foot-lamberts  and,  of  course,  the  reflectivity  of  the  screens 
depends  not  only  upon  their  quality  but  also  on  their  age  and  the 
frequency  with  which  they  are  cleaned. 

The  recommended  screen  brightness  both  in  America  and 
Britain  is  quoted  below:  - 

American  standard  Z.22.39.1944:  The  brightness  at  the  centre  of  the 
screen  for  viewing  35-mm  motion  pictures  shall  be  9  to  14  foot-lamberts 
when  the  projector  is  running  with  no  film  in  the  gate. 

British  standard  (Ref.:  B.S.  1404-  1947):  For  black-and-white  film 
a  minimum  of  12  foot-lamberts  and  a  maximum  of  24  foot-lamberts. 
For  Technicolor  film  a  minimum  of  7  foot-lamberts  and  a  maximum 
of  14  foot-lamberts. 

Precautions  taken  to  maintain  the  conditions  in  America 
include  a  'no  smoking'  rule  in  the  auditorium.  Obviously,  the 
dirt  collecting  on  the  screen  surface  due  to  smoke-laden  air  is 
very  considerable,  and  having  a  screen  cleaned  is  a  considerable 
item  in  the  cinema  expense  account ! 

It  has  been  previously  stated  that  the  appearance  of  flicker 
depends,  amongst  other  considerations,  upon  the  brightness  of 
the  screen.  Some  of  the  smaller  news  theatres  in  London  employ 
a  very  high  screen  brightness  which  produces  noticeable  flicker 
although  the  shutter  frequency  is  maintained  at  the  required  48 
interruptions  per  second.  The  same  projector,  used  in  a  larger 
auditorium,  and  therefore  projecting  a  picture  of  lower  intensity, 
would  not  show  any  signs  of  flicker.  However,  the  general  level 
of  screen  brightness  throughout  this  country  is  not  only  below  the 
level  at  which  flicker  from  a  48  per  second  interruption  would  be 
noticeable,  but  is  also  lower  than  is  desirable  to  avoid  eye  strain. 

Those  who  have  seen  a  positive  print,  intended  for  projection 
in  America  were  the  screen  brightness  is  high,  shown  in  this 
country  on  a  machine  producing  a  low  screen  brightness,  will 


186  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

realise  that  laboratories  are  required  to  make  their  prints  to 
different  density  levels  according  to  the  country  in  which  they  are 
to  be  used.  This  more  generally  means  that  laboratories  in  America 
print  the  positive  copies  to  a  higher  density  level  than  do  the 
laboratories  in  this  country.  It  is,  of  course,  relatively  rare  that  a 
foreign  print  is  shown  without  an  intermediate  copying  process 
being  carried  out  before-hand. 

Picture  Framing  and  Ghost  Images 

When  threading  a  film  into  the  projector  it  is  the  operators  duty 
to  ensure  that  the  picture  is  correctly  aligned  with  the  aperture 
mask.  Since  35-mm  film  is  perforated  with  four  holes  corresponding 
to  each  picture  it  is  obviously  possible  to  thread  the  film  in  three 
positions  which  would  not  bring  the  picture  boundaries  in  line  with 
a  fixed  aperture.  Assuming  that  the  film  has  been  correctly  threaded, 
it  is  still  possible  that  a  faulty  joint,  made  'out  of  frame'  may  dis- 
place that  section  of  film  which  follows  such  a  join.  It  is  also  not 
sufficient  to  rely  upon  the  operator  selecting  the  correct  perforation 
with  which  to  engage  the  intermittent  sprocket  since  the  relation- 
ship between  perforations  and  picture  positions  may  vary  from  one 
film  to  the  next.  It  is  therefore  clearly  necessary  to  provide  some 
means  whereby  the  position  of  the  aperture,  relative  to  the  pictures, 
may  be  adjusted. 

This  adjustment  is  known  as  'framing'  and  was  accomplished  in 
early  projectors  by  moving  the  lens  and  aperture  plate  vertically 
in  relation  to  the  film  itself.  This  method  had  the  disadvantage 
that  the  cone  of  light  coming  from  the  condenser  remained  in  a 
fixed  position,  and  the  illumination  across  the  picture  therefore 
fell  away  as  the  aperture  was  moved  from  the  central  position. 
The  modern  improvement  on  this  system,  known  as  'fixed  optical 
centre  racking',  causes  the  film  to  be  moved  relative  to  the  aperture 
which  is  now  maintained  in  a  fixed  position.  Two  methods  are 
generally  employed  to  obtain  this  movement.  Firstly,  by  mounting 
the  intermittent  sprocket  and  most  of  the  mechanism  on  vertical 
slides.  Secondly,  by  causing  the  drive  to  the  intermittent  to  rotate 
and  so  to  advance  or  retard  the  position  at  which  the  sprocket 
wheel  comes  to  rest.  This  second  method  is  very  neat  and  compact 
but  causes  the  shutter  to  be  thrown  slightly  out  of  phase  with  the 
intermittent  and,  on  machines  of  this  type,  it  is  then  necessary 
to  provide  a  variable  gear  drive  to  the  shutter  so  that  its  relation- 
ship with  the  pull-down  or  intermittent  sprocket  may  be  corrected. 

If  the  shutter  is  out  of  phase  with  the  pull-down  a  'ghost  image' 
will  be  seen  on  the  screen.  Such  an  effect  will  give  rise  to  the  appear- 


THE   MOTION    PICTURE   PROJECTOR  187 

ance  of  white  streaks  in  all  the  high  lights  of  the  picture  and, 
because  of  this,  will  be  most  easily  seen  when  titles  having  dark 
backgrounds  are  projected.  White  streaks  appearing  above  the 
letters  or  high  lights  indicate  that  the  shutter  is  not  completely 
covering  the  aperture  before  the  film  is  moved  and  should  therefore 
be  advanced.  If  the  streaks  appear  below  the  letters  or  high  lights 
it  is  an  indication  that  the  shutter  starts  to  reveal  the  aperture 
before  the  film  has  been  brought  to  rest  and  it  should  therefore  be 
retarded. 

Projector  Arcs 

Although  much  work  and  progress  has  been  made  on  the  possible 
use  of  Tungsten  filament  and  Mercury  Vapour  lamps  for  use  in 
projectors  it  is  still  a  fact  that,  at  the  present  time,  no  light  source 
has  yet  replaced  the  carbon  arc  for  projection  purposes.  In  a 
system  which  includes  parabolic  mirrors,  condenser  and  projection 
lenses,  it  is  essential  that  the  illuminant  should  as  nearly  as  possible 
approach  a  point  source.  The  carbon  arc  is  admirably  suited  to 
meet  this  requirement  and  is  also  a  source  of  very  high  brightness  - 
the  arc  from  pure  carbon  being  four  times  as  bright  as  the  filament 
of  a  gas-filled  electric  bulb.  A  pure  carbon  arc  is  of  the  'Low- 
Intensity'  class,  but  so  called  'High-Intensity'  arcs  are  again  four 
times  more  brilliant  than  those  of  pure  carbon.  Carbon  is  one  of  the 
few  elements  which,  when  raised  to  high  temperatures,  will  pass 
from  the  solid  to  the  gaseous  state  without  first  becoming  liquid. 
Carbon  rods  are  made  from  soot  which  is  produced  by  burning 
certain  oils  containing  large  proportions  or  naphtha.  The  soot  is 
converted  into  pure  carbon  granules  which  are  then  classified 
by  'mesh'  or  size,  so  that  any  carbon  rod  may  be  manufactured 
to  contain  a  predetermined  quantity  of  granules  of  any  particular 
size.  The  proportion  of  each  size  of  granules  used  to  make  the 
carbon  rod  is  governed  by  the  current  at  which  the  arc  is  to 
operate.  The  carbon  granules  are  first  bonded  together  with  a 
paste  and  then  forced  together  under  hydraulic  pressure  in  an 
extrusion  press.  It  is  then  necessary  to  bake  the  rods  until  the 
volatile  content  is  drawn  off  and  only  pure  carbon,  now  in  the 
solid  state,  remains.  If  two  carbon  rods  are  brought  into  contact 
and  a  direct  current  is  passed  through  them,  that  carbon  connected 
to  the  positive  side  of  the  supply  will  become  heated  until,  when  at 
approximately  3,700°C,  the  carbon  volatilises,  that  is,  it  changes 
state  from  a  solid  to  a  gas.  The  carbons  may  then  be  moved 
slightly  apart  and  it  will  be  found  that  the  circuit  will  remain 
unbroken  and  the  vapourised  carbon  will  form  an  arc  between 


188 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  76. — Early  "straight"  projection  arc  light  source. 


the  two  rods  and  across  which  the  current  will  continue  to  flow. 
The  tip  of  the  positive  carbon  will  then  become  heated  to  incan- 
descence and  the  surface  will  have  a  brightness  of  approximately 
170  candle-power  per  square  millimetre. 

The  general  arrangement  of  an  early  'straight'  arc  (now  only 
used  in  spot  lights)  is  shown  in  Figure  76.  The  upper  thick  carbon 
is  connected  to  the  positive  side  of  the  electrical  supply,  whilst  the 
lower  or  thin  carbon  is  connected  to  the  negative  supply.  Both 
carbons  are  clamped  in  position  at  'A'  and  electrical  connections 
are  made  at  'B  plus'  and  'B  negative*.  The  negative  carbon  is  made 
thinner  than  the  positive  since  the  source  of  light  is  in  the  crater 
formed  in  the  positive  and,  in  the  arrangement  shown,  the  negative 
would  tend  to  obstruct  this  light  if  it  were  as  thick  as  the  positive 
carbon.  Control  lever  T  enables  the  positive  carbon  to  be  moved 
forward  or  backward,  whilst  control  lever  *2'  permits  lateral  move- 
ment. Lever  '3'  drives  a  pinion  wheel  which  engages  with  a  rack  of 
teeth  cut  in  the  upper  and  lower  supporting  arms  so  that,  by 
one  operation,  the  two  carbons  are  moved  towards  each  other. 
Lever  '4'  serves  to  tilt  the  whole  assembly,  whilst  lever  '5'  raises 
or  lowers  the  assembly  to  maintain  the  light  source  on  the  axis  of 
the  optical  system.  Finally,  lever  *6*  permits  lateral  adjustment  of 


THE   MOTION   PICTURE  PROJECTOR  189 

the  whole  unit.  By  careful  manipulation  of  these  six  levers  it  was 
possible  to  maintain  a  reasonably  constant  screen  brightness. 

The  Low  Intensity  arc,  having  a  surface  brightness  of  170-candle- 
power  per  square  millimetre,  consists  of  a  relatively  large  diameter 
positive  carbon,  through  the  centre  of  which  is  now  added  a  soft 
carbon  core  which  has  been  found  of  great  help  in  forming  the 
required  crater  necessary  to  control  the  position  of  the  light 
source.  The  negative  carbon  is  now  approximately  4-mra  smaller 
in  diameter  than  the  positive  but,  since  such  a  reduction  would 
have  previously  limited  the  current  carrying  capacity,  it  is  now  also 
supplied  with  a  core  but,  in  this  case,  one  which  is  coated  with  a 
thin  copper  deposit  whereby  the  original  current  flow  may  be 
maintained  and  yet  the  negative  may  be  kept  sufficiently  small  to 
avoid  blocking  the  path  of  the  light  emitted  from  the  crater  in  the 
positive  carbon. 

The  modern  High-Intensity  arc  has  a  surface  brightness  of 
between  500  and  1,100  candle-power  per  square  millimetre  and 
such  a  source  depends  for  its  efficiency  upon  the  filling  used  in 
the  core  of  the  positive  carbon.  It  was  found  that,  by  filling  the 
core  with  a  particular  mineral  salts,  chiefly  cerium,  most  of  this 
intense  light  was  obtained  from  the  burning  gases  and  not  from  the 
actual  carbon  crater.  However,  it  was  found  that,  in  order  to 
control  the  flame  produced  by  this  arc,  it  was  necessary  to  con- 
tinually rotate  the  positive  rod  and  this  was  accomplished  either  by 
hand,  or  later,  by  an  automatic  feeding  mechanism. 

A  more  recent  method  used  to  control  the  position  of  the  flame 
and  the  crater  in  the  positive  carbon  is  by  introducing  a  magnetic 
field  in  the  vicinity  of  the  arc.  This  field  serves  to  stabilise  the 
operation  and,  naturally,  eliminates  a  considerable  quantity  of 
mechanism  from  the  lamp  house.  The  actual  function  of  this 
magnetic  field  is  still  not  fully  understood,  but  it  is  quite  certainly 
based  upon  the  fact  that  magnetic  fluxes  exist  around  the  carbons 
and  their  flames  and,  by  applying  similar  fields  in  opposing 
directions,  it  is  not  only  possible  to  separate  the  two  flames  but, 
if  the  field  strength  is  increased,  to  completely  extinguish  the  arc. 

Projection  Lenses  and  Screen  Picture  Distortion 
Projection  lenses  must  be  corrected  for  all  types  of  aberrations  if  a 
clear,  sharp  picture  is  to  be  obtained.  Some  of  these  aberrations 
are  briefly  mentioned  here  to  remind  us  that,  in  common  with  the 
camera  lenses,  these  objectives  are  also  of  a  very  high  order. 
Unless  a  lens  is  corrected  for  spherical  aberration  those  rays  which 
strike  the  edges  of  the  lens  will  be  refracted  to  a  greater  degree 


190 


PRINCIPLES    OF    CINFMATOOR APm' 


/"-- 

— V 

1 

A 

1 

1 

I 

( 

/ 

|  PICTURE  AS  SEENl 

I  AFTER  MASKWG  1 

/ 

/ 

1 

W 

MI 
Fig.  77.— The  "keystone"  effect. 


than  those  which  strike  the  centre  and,  consequently,  the  definition 
will  be  poor.  'Pincushion'  and  'Barrel'  distortion,  both  names 
arising  from  the  shape  projected  by  a  non-rectilinear  lens  of  a 
straight  sided  diagram,  have  long  been  eliminated  from  all  but 
very  cheap  simple  component  lenses.  'Curvature  of  field'  is  the 
name  given  to  the  inability  to  bring  all  parts  of  the  field  to  sharp 
focus  in  the  same  plane  and  is  encountered  when  only  the  centre 
or  the  edges  of  the  picture  are  perfectly  sharp. 

Since  the  image  formed  by  any  lens  is  never  perfectly  sharp,  the 
degree  of  sharpness  is  defined  as  the  'circle  of  confusion',  or  the 
smallest  area  in  which  the  image  of  a  point-source  is  located. 
Fortunately,  the  resolving  power  of  the  human  eye  is  lower  than 
that  of  a  high  grade  lens,  and  this  defect  is  never  serious  -  in  any 
case,  the  grain  size  in  the  photographic  emulsion  is  more  likely  to 
limit  the  sharpness  of  the  image  and,  as  we  shall  see  when  dealing 
with  sound  recording  processes,  is  a  more  important  limitation  on 
the  upper  frequency  recording  than  is  the  quality  of  the  lens. 
Finally,  'chromatic  aberration'  is  the  inability  of  a  lens  to  focus 
all  the  colours  of  the  spectrum  in  one  plane  and,  in  severe  cases, 
gives  rise  to  colour  fringes  around  the  images  and  in  the  form  of  a 
halo. 

In  connection  with  projection  systems  it  should  be  remembered 
that  most  cinemas  are  designed  with  the  operating  box  near  to  the 
roof  and,  consequently,  the  projector  must  be  tilted  downwards  in 
order  to  centre  the  picture  upon  the  screen.  This  tilt  is  known  as 
'Projector  Rake'  and  causes  the  image  to  be  'Keystoned'  in  shape, 
as  seen  in  Figure  77.  This  condition  is  only  severe  in  old  cinemas 


THE    MOTION   PICTURE   PROJECTOR  191 

where  the  distance  from  the  screen  to  the  back  of  the  auditorium 
is  short  and  the  projection  box  is  at  a  considerable  height,  as  would 
be  the  case  in  a  converted  Theatre.  Keystone  Effect  may  be 
eliminated  by  three  modifications  in  either  the  projector  or  the 
cinema  screen.  Firstly,  by  altering  the  shape  of  the  aperture  in 
the  projector  gate  so  that  it  is  no  longer  a  true  rectangle,  but  so  that 
it  will  produce  a  rectangular  picture  when  tilted  to  a  predetermined 
angle  or  'rake'.  Secondly,  by  tilting  the  screen  towards  the  pro- 
jector so  that  the  vertical  plane  of  the  screen  is  at  right-angles  to 
the  optical  centre  of  the  projector.  Thirdly,  by  fitting  a  black 
mask  to  the  screen  so  that  the  unwanted  picture  edges  are  not 
reflected. 

In  modern  cinemas  the  keystone  effect  is  very  slight  since  the 
operating  box  is  usually  just  above  the  balcony  level  and,  since 
the  auditorium  is  usually  quite  long,  the  angle  of  rake  is  now 
relatively  shallow.  Under  these  circumstances  it  is  most  convenient 
to  tilt  the  screen  slightly  to  obtain  the  necessary  correction,  or  to 
apply  a  black  mask  to  its  edges.  Screen  tilting  is  usually  only 
possible  in  houses  where  stage  shows  are  not  given.  Since  the 
screen  must  be  raised  above  the  proscenium  arch  to  give  clear 
access  to  the  stage  for  'live'  performances  it  is  usual  to  employ  a 
truly  vertical  screen  in  these  cases  and  to  make  the  necessary  small 
corrections  with  masks. 

With  the  introduction  of  sound  it  became  necessary  to  devise 
a  screen  material  through  which  the  sounds  could  pass  -  the 
majority  of  speaker  installations  being  located  behind  the  screens. 
In  America  the  screens  are  of  rubber  and  are  manufactured  with 
series  of  small  perforations  moulded  over  the  entire  surface. 
These  holes  are  relatively  small  and  the  eye  is  unable  to  resolve  them 
but,  of  course,  they  do  cause  a  slight  loss  in  picture  brightness.  In 
this  country  it  is  stipulated  that  perforated  rubber  screens  may  only 
be  used  if  they  are  rendered  fire-proof  and,  consequently,  many 
cinemas  are  fitted  with  open-worked,  or  woven  screens.  Here  again 
the  light  loss  is  not  very  great  but,  to  avoid  unpleasant  reflections 
from  behind  the  screen,  the  speakers  are  usually  surrounded  by  a 
black  felt  'screen  backing',  cut  so  as  to  leave  apertures  in  front 
of  the  speakers  and  through  which  the  sounds  may  travel. 

Two  major  difficulties  must  be  guarded  against  if  the  sound 
and  picture  quality  are  to  be  maintained  at  high  level.  Firstly, 
the  perforations  in  the  rubber  screens,  or  the  holes  in  woven 
screens,  will  become  coated  with  dust  and,  in  time,  will  become 
completely  closed.  This  naturally  leads  to  a  'falling  off'  of  sound 
volume  which,  to  the  inexperienced,  may  be  difficult  to  detect. 


192  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Secondly,  the  reflective  surface  of  the  screen  will  also  become 
dirty  with  a  corresponding  loss  in  picture  brilliance.  For  these 
reasons  it  is  usual  to  supply  two  screens  to  each  cinema,  so  that 
one  may  be  laundered  while  the  other  is  in  use.  The  cost  of  present- 
day  (1957)  Cinemascope  screens  is  10/-  per  square  foot  and,  for  a 
screen  50  ft.,  this  represents  an  investment  of  some  £450  -  obviously 
an  item  worth  careful  handling  and  constant  attention. 

Rear  Projection 

By  placing  the  projector  behind  a  translucent  screen  two  advan- 
tages may  be  gained,  but  many  difficulties  are  presented  to  off-set 
them.  Firstly,  the  seating  capacity  of  the  auditorium  may  be 
increased  and,  secondly,  the  distracting  beam  of  light  from  the 
projector  is  eliminated.  However,  with  such  an  arrangement  it  is 
necessary  to  thread  the  film  in  the  projector  so  that  the  images  are 
reversed  from  left  to  right.  Such  a  change  entails  the  use  of  a  special 
aperture  plate  in  the  film  gate,  since  the  picture  area  is  not  sym- 
metrical about  the  centre  line  of  the  film  but  is  off-set  in  order  to 
accommodate  the  sound  track.  The  sound  head  must  also  be 
redesigned  since  the  track  position  is  also  reversed. 

Apart  from  these  projection  modifications,  it  is  also  necessary 
to  place  the  speakers  either  at  the  sides  or  above  the  screen  instead 
of  immediately  behind  it  and  near  to  the  centre,  Unless  the  speakers 
are  specially  selected  for  this  purpose  and  the  acoustic  properties 
of  the  auditorium  are  designed  with  this  point  in  view,  the  sound 
quality  will  be  poor  and  unwanted  echoes  may  result.  Lastly,  it 
is,  of  course,  necessary  to  keep  a  long  building  behind  the  screen 
in  which  to  accommodate  the  projector  'throw'  in  order  to  obtain 
a  sufficiently  large  picture. 

Suggestions  have  been  made  that  the  picture  area  should  be 
reduced  and  made  symmetrical  about  the  centre  line  of  the  film 
and  that  dual  sound  tracks  should  be  printed,  one  on  each  side  of 
the  picture,  it  then  becoming  possible  to  use  existing  projectors  both 
for  front  and  rear  projection  merely  by  introducing  a  small 
picture  mask  in  the  present  aperture  plate.  In  case  any  reader  is 
wondering  if  such  an  arrangement  could  be  carried  a  stage  further 
so  that  two  audiences  may  be  accommodated,  one  on  each  side  of 
the  screen,  it  may  be  as  well  to  point  out  that  such  an  arrangement 
would  only  be  possible  if  the  films  did  not  contain  titles  (which 
would  certainly  be  reversed  from  left  to  right  for  one  audience) 
and  if  one  audience  had  no  objection  to  the  actors  being  left- 
handed  ! 


THE  MOTION  PICTURE  PROJECTOR 


193 


Slide  Projection  and  Stage  Equipment 

In  the  modern  cinema  the  operators  are  also  responsible  for 
showing  lantern  slides,  either  as  advertising  materials  during  the 
intervals,  or  carrying  the  words  of  a  song  for  the  organ  recital. 
They  may  also  be  called  upon  to  play  vocal  records  to  be  accom- 
panied by  the  organist.  To  ensure  that  time  does  not  hang  on  their 
hands,  they  are  also  responsible  for  lighting  the  variety  shows, 
maintaining  the  electrical  equipment  (Generators,  convertors  and 
rectifiers)  and,  of  course,  operating  the  curtains ! 


IFIRST  LANTERN  I 


>///&lV/?7/////ZZZZ, 


•foMSX    KUi-jNiNG   iN~G~ftO"QvES> 


Fig.  78:— Lantern  slide  projection  change-over  device. 

Modern  slide  lanterns  are  normally  operated  in  pairs  and 
masking  devices  are  connected  to  each  lantern  so  that  'wipe-off 
effects  cause  the  transition  from  one  slide  to  the  next.  One 
arrangement  of  this  is  seen  in  Figure  78.  A  mask,  cut  with  the 
necessary  complementary  pattern  in  each  blade,  is  arranged  to 
travel  in  grooves  so  that,  as  one  blade  is  covering  the  first  slide, 
the  second  blade  is  revealing  the  second  slide  -  this  second  slide 
is  housed  in  the  second  lantern  which  must,  of  course,  be 
suitably  located  with  respect  to  the  masks  and  the  first  lantern. 

In  the  arrangement  shown  the  mask  will  move  to  the  right  to 
complete  the  change  over,  the  operator  will  then  remove  slide 
No.  1  and  insert  slide  No.  3;  after  the  required  showing  time  the 
mask  is  moved  back  to  the  left,  so  changing  from  slide  No.  2  to 
slide  No.  3,  and  slide  No.  2  is  then  replaced  by  slide  No.  4. 
Obviously,  both  lanterns  must  be  accurately  trained  on  the  screen 
to  give  the  appearance  of  continuous  projection  and,  in  some  cases, 
these  slides  are  supplemented  by  a  third  lantern  which  is  used  to 
project  a  coloured  background  to  the  slides.  In  such  cases  the 
slides  must  be  arranged  with  white  letters  on  a  black  background 
to  avoid  excess  light  from  the  'title'  lanterns  impairing  the  quality 


13 


194  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

of  the  background  designs.  More  elaborate  effects  may  be  pro- 
duced by  employing  two  background  lanterns  to  vary  the  designs 
in  a  similar  manner  to  the  change-over  devices  used  in  the  title 
lanterns  and,  of  course,  the  actual  shapes  of  the  mask  edges  may 
be  varied  to  produce  any  type  of  wipe  over  effect  which  can  be 
obtained  by  the  horizontal  movement  of  the  blades. 

Spot  lighting  variety  acts  is  usually  carried  out  either  from  the 
operating  box  or  in  the  auditorium  dome.  The  actors  usually 
supply  a  'cue  sheet'  with  which  to  follow  their  performance  and 
this  contains  such  instructions  as  'up-stage',  meaning  towards  the 
back  wall  of  the  stage,  'down-stage',  towards  the  footlights  or 
'floats'  and  entrance  from  the  'prompt  side'  that  is,  the  right-hand 
side  as  viewed  from  the  operating  box,  or  entrance  'opposite 
prompt',  meaning  from  the  left-hand  side.  Such  devices  as  marking 
the  layout  of  the  stage  elevation  in  miniature  on  the  glass  porthole 
of  the  operating  box  greatly  assist  the  operator  in  placing  his 
spots  so  as  to  be  in  the  correct  position  to  meet  the  actors  as  they 
make  their  entrance. 

Curtains,  or  'tabs',  are  usually  controlled  by  an  automatic  wind- 
ing mechanism  driven  through  a  gear  reduction  from  a  small 
electric  motor  -  usually  not  greater  than  \  Horse  Power.  The 
electrical  circuit  provides  for  the  motor  to  be  started  or  stopped 
at  any  moment  and  to  be  rotated  in  either  direction.  These  motors 
are  usually  controlled  by  switch  gear  placed  either  in  the  'wings' 
or  under  the  stage.  Push-button  control  in  the  operating  box 
is  usually  also  fitted  and  it  is  only  then  necessary  to  start  the  cur- 
tains in  motion  to  open  or  to  close  -  the  travel  being  automatically 
controlled  to  switch  off  the  motors  at  the  end  of  the  operation. 

This  description  of  equipment  within  the  cinema  has  been 
necessarily  brief  since  it  does  not  come  within  the  scope  of  labora- 
tory or  production  technique  -  it  has  only  been  included  in  this 
book  to  give  a  better  idea  of  the  layout  of  the  cinema  and  the 
responsibilities  of  the  operators.  However,  it  will  serve  to  remind 
us  that  the  post  of  chief  operator  in  a  large  cinema  carries  many 
responsibilities  other  than  those  covered  by  the  title,  since  he  is 
also  required  to  be  an  experienced  maintenance  engineer  and 
electrician. 


CHAPTER  7 

THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND  TO  FILMS 


The  Nature  of  Sound 

Before  the  instruments  and  methods  used  to  reproduce  sound 
from  a  moving  film  strip  can  be  considered  it  will  be  helpful 
very  briefly  to  investigate  the  nature  of  sound  itself.  Firstly  it  is 
essential  to  realise  that  sound  requires  a  material  medium  by 
which  it  may  be  transferred  from  one  situation  to  another.  This 
fact  may  be  readily  proved  by  fitting  an  electric  bell  within  a  glass 
container  from  which  the  air  may  be  removed  since  it  is  mounted 
on  the  metal  plate  of  an  air  pump.  The  electrical  connections  to 
the  bell  are  made  through  an  air-tight  seal  and,  if  the  bell  is  set 
ringing  and  the  pump  is  working  to  gradually  extract  the  air  from 
the  glass  container  the  sound,  which  will  at  first  be  quite  loud, 
will  be  gradually  reduced  in  volume  until,  when  nearly  all  the  air 
has  been  removed  from  the  container  and  the  bell  is  operating 
in  a  partial  vacuum,  no  noise  will  be  heard  at  all. 

From  this  experiment  we  learn  that  sound  can  only  be  heard 
at  all  if  a  suitable  transmitting  medium  exists  between  the  source 
and  the  observer.  Although  the  normal  medium  through  which  we 
hear  sound  is  the  air,  this  is  not  the  only  suitable  transmitting 
material.  For  example,  the  fish  hear  sounds  through  the  medium 
of  water,  insects  living  under  the  earth's  surface  hear  sounds  by 
earth  tremors  and,  by  putting  one's  ear  to  one  end  of  a  fallen  tree 
whilst  a  second  person  lightly  taps  on  the  opposite  end,  we  see 
that  sound  may  also  be  transmitted  through  wood.  It  is  therefore 
concluded  that  sound  may  be  transmitted  to  a  greater  or  lesser 
extent  through  many  material  media,  but  that  it  will  not  pass 
through  a  vacuum. 

The  second  important  point  to  realise  is  that  all  sounds  are 
created  by  vibration  and  that  the  speed  of  these  vibrations 
determines  the  pitch  of  the  note.  This  point  is  very  easily  realised 
when  one  is  watching  the  strings  of  a  violin  as  they  vibrate  when 

195 


196 

UUUU1U 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

ft 


iiilliiiili 
0 


I® 


van 

© 


© 


© 


Fig.  79. — The  transmission  of  sound  waves. 


Hill 


the  bow  is  drawn  across  them.  It  is  not  quite  so  easy  to  believe 
that  sound  is  caused  by  vibration  when  we  hear  the  noise  produced 
by  drumming  the  fingers  on  a  table  top  since  we  cannot  see  our 
finger  ends  vibrating  in  a  manner  similar  to  the  violin  strings. 
However,  if  we  repeat  this  action  with  equal  force,  but  with  a 
pair  of  gloves  on  our  hands,  it  is  obvious  that  the  sound  has  been 
greatly  reduced  in  volume,  if  it  can  be  heard  at  all.  The  reason  for 
this  is,  of  course,  that  the  soft  materials  of  the  gloves  has  absorbed 
the  vibrations  and  eliminated  the  shock  of  contact  between  the 
fingers  and  the  table  top  -  hence  no  sound  is  created.  It  should  also 
be  realised  that  a  single  pure  note  is  created  by  a  series  of  mech- 
anical movements,  repeated  at  very  short  intervals.  Air  is  the  normal 
medium  through  which  we  are  able  to  hear  vibrations  and,  as  we 
have  seen,  mechanical  vibrations  are  necessary  to  create  sound. 
However,  no  obvious  movement  of  the  air  takes  place  when 
vibrations  are  passing  through  it  -  for  example,  we  do  not 
experience  a  gust  of  wind  at  the  mouth  of  a  radio  loud-speaker,  no 
matter  how  high  the  volume  control  is  adjusted.  The  explanation 
of  this  condition  is  that  sound  is  transferred  in  the  form  of 
Longitudinal  Wave  Motion. 

This  transference  of  sound  through  a   suitable  medium  is 
clearly  seen  from  Figure  79.  Let  it  be  assumed  that  'AB'  is  a  piece 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS  197 

of  spring  steel,  mounted  vertically  upon  a  base-board  so  that 
the  upper  extremity  'A'  may  be  caused  to  vibrate.  Whilst  the  spring 
is  stationary,  as  in  position  T,  assume  that  the  air  surrounding 
the  spring  may  be  represented  by  lines  of  very  small  golf  balls, 
each  suspended  on  a  separate  short  string.  As  the  spring  'AB'  is 
caused  to  vibrate  it  will  first  move  to  the  right,  as  shown  at  '2', 
and  let  us  assume  that  its  hits  the  first  golf  ball  and  causes  that 
also  to  swing  to  the  right.  Immediately  after  contact  the  spring '  AB' 
commences  to  swing  to  the  left,  but  it  has  transferred  sufficient 
energy  to  the  golf  ball  to  cause  it  to  continue  to  travel  to  the  right 
until  it  hits  the  second  golf  ball,  as  seen  at  '3'.  By  this  time  the 
spring  'AB'  has  travelled  back  to  its  central  position  and  is  still 
moving  towards  the  left,  the  first  golf  ball  has  expended  all  its 
energy  and,  after  hitting  the  second  ball,  has  started  to  move  to 
the  left.  The  second  ball  has  received  energy  from  the  first  and  is 
itself  now  swinging  to  the  right. 

In  this  manner  the  energy  is  passed  along  the  line  of  particles 
until  it  is  all  used  up.  However,  after  the  disturbance  has  travelled 
some  distance,  and  those  particles  behind  it  have  come  to  rest, 
the  spring  'AB'  has  returned  once  more  to  the  position  shown  at 
'2'  and  starts  a  second  train  of  motion.  This  condition  is  more 
clearly  seen  at  '5'.  Now  imagine  that,  instead  of  the  particles  of 
air  being  widely  spaced  they  are  more  closely  packed,  then  the 
appearance  of  the  disturbances,  if  we  could  see  them,  would  be 
rather  like  the  arrangement  shown  in  diagram  '6'  and  the  distance 
between  each  peak,  indicated  at  'C,  'D'  and  'E',  would  represent 
the  wave-length  of  the  note.  The  number  of  such  peaks  which  passed 
a  stationary  point  every  second  would  then  indicate  the  frequency 
of  the  note. 

From  the  foregoing  it  should  be  clear  that  sound  is  transmitted 
by  causing  particles  of  air  to  oscillate  and  not  to  move  bodily 
forward  in  a  constant  stream.  The  frequency  of  any  pure  note  is 
represented  by  graphs  similar  to  those  shown  in  Figure  80,  where 
'A'  represents  a  note  of  low  frequency,  'B'  a  medium  frequency 
and  ,C  a  high  frequency.  One  further  basic  point  should  be  estab- 
lished and  concerns  the  speed  at  which  sound  travels  through  the 
air.  That  we  know  sound  takes  a  considerable  time  to  travel  at  all 
is  demonstrated  by  the  lag  between  one  seeing  a  lightning  flash 
and  hearing  the  thunder  which,  of  course,  both  originated 
simultaneously.  Sound  travels  through  air  at  approximately  1,100- 
ft  (335-3-metres)  per  second,  but  varies  in  speed  according  to  the 
temperature  and  pressure  of  the  air.  Country  folk  who  live  some 
distance  from  a  railway  station  often  forecast  the  approach  of 


198 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

MA/W 


Fig.  80. — Sounds  of  various  frequencies. 

rain  by  the  loudness  of  the  train  whistles.  Actually  they  are  esti- 
mating the  pressure  and  temperature  of  the  air  since,  the  heavier 
the  pressure  the  greater  is  the  resistance  to  disturbance  and, 
therefore,  sounds  of  equal  strength  do  not  travel  so  far  through  a 
dense  medium  as  they  will  through  a  lighter  one  before  they 
become  exhausted.  Referring  back  to  the  vibrating  fork,  and 
remembering  the  speed  of  sound  through  air  is  roughly  1.100-ft 
(335-3-metres)  per  second,  let  us  assume  that  the  fork  makes 
50  complete  vibrations  per  second.  At  the  end  of  the  first  second 
the  first  disturbance  will  have  travelled  1,100-ft  and,  between  it  and 
the  source,  will  be  equally  spaced  50  other  pulses,  each  separated 
exactly  22-ft  (6-7-metres)  from  its  neighbours. 

Before  passing  on  to  consider  means  whereby  sounds  may  be 
recorded  and  reproduced  it  will  be  worth-while  to  examine  the 
action  which  takes  place  within  our  own  ears  -  this  action  will 
be  seen  to  agree  closely  with  a  similar  action  created  in  the 
diaphragm  of  ear-phones,  telephones  and  gramophone  sound- 
boxes. Figure  81  shows  a  cut-away  view  of  the  organs  connecting 
the  ear  with  the  nerve  system.  The  waves  of  pressure  travelling 
through  the  air  come  into  contact  with  the  'drum-skin',  situated 
at  the  base  of  the  outer  ear,  and  cause  it  to  vibrate  in  a  manner 
corresponding  to  the  pressure  waves  themselves.  The  motion  of 
this  drum-skin  is  transmitted  to  three  bones,  known  as  the 
'hammer',  which  is  seen  to  be  in  contact  with  the  centre  of  the 
drum,  the  'anvil'  and  the  'stirrup'. 

These  three  links  form  a  chain  of  communication  across  the 


THE   ADDITION   OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS 


199 


space  or  inner  drum  of  the  ear.  This  inner  drum  is  necessary 
since  it  forms  a  connection,  through  the  throat,  with  the  outside 
air  and  therefore  maintains  the  pressure  on  each  side  of  the  drum- 
skin  at  equal  strengths  and  ensures  that  this  skin  is  not  subjected 
to  undue  tension.  The  stirrup  is  in  contact  with  a  membrane 
covering  the  inner  ear,  or  'cochlea',  and  transmits  the  vibrations 
produced  by  the  drum-skin,  via  the  hammer,  anvil  and  stirrup, 
to  the  seat  of  hearing. 

The  cochlea  is  shaped  rather  similar  to  the  spiral  shell  of  a  snail 
and  contains  a  liquid  in  which  is  supported  a  second  thin  flexible 
tube  -  again  filled  with  a  liquid.  The  vibrations  produced  within 
this  membrane  are  considered  to  be  analysed  by  the  cochlea  and 
transmitted,  in  the  form  of  nerve  pulses,  to  the  brain.  Here  they 
are  recognised  as  being  the  expected  reactions  due  to  something 
another  nerve  system,  that  of  sight,  has  usually  just  warned  the 
brain  to  prepare  for.  From  this  reasoning  we  see  how  it  is  possible 
for  people  who  have  broken  their  ear  drum  to  hear  by  'bone 
conduction'  -  since  any  mechanism  used  to  set  the  hammer  into 
vibration  will  produce  the  nerve  reaction  of  sound. 

Early  Disc  Recording 

The  art  of  recording  and  reproducing  sounds  has  been  developing 


SEMICIRCULAR 
CANALS 


DRUM  SKIN 
EAR  DRUM 


Fig.  81. — The  human  ear. 


200  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


x/\f\f\j° 

Fig.  82. — Micro-illustration  of  disc  recording. 

for  many  years,  the  earliest  recordings  being  made  in  France  by 
Leon  Scott  in  the  year  1857,  and  the  first  reproductions  by  Edison 
in  1877.  Obviously,  the  growth  from  the  Edison  Kinetoscope 
and  Phonograph  to  modern  sound  films  has  produced  a  very  long 
chain  of  noteworthy  inventions.  To  give  a  detailed  description  of 
but  a  few  of  these  would  not  only  take  up  considerable  space, 
but  would  probably  only  lead  to  confusion.  Apart  from  this  the 
technique  of  disc  recording  is  now  so  well  known  that  we  will 
take  as  a  starting  point  the  first  large-scale  sound-on-disc  talking 
films  which  were  initiated  by  the  success  of  'The  Jazz  Singer'  and 
•The  Singing  Fool'. 

In  all  sound  recording  systems  two  fundamental  requirements 
must  be  satisfied.  Firstly,  the  note  frequency  must  be  faithfully 
recorded  and,  secondly,  the  ratio  of  loudness  or  volume  between 
the  sounds  must  be  maintained.  In  disc  recording  these  factors 
are  accommodated  in  the  mechanical  cutting  of  the  sound  grooves. 
Figure  82  shows  a  section  of  a  disc  as  it  would  appear  under  a 
high  power  microscope.  The  grooves  seen  at  'A*  represent  the 
track  cut  by  a  sapphire  cutter  when  no  sound  is  being  recorded. 
The  distance  between  the  centres  of  the  grooves  is  approximately 
0-010-inch  (0-254-mm).  Diagram  'B'  shows  the  appearance  of 
the  grooves  when  a  constant  low  frequency  note  has  been  recorded. 
It  will  be  realised  that  the  frequency  is  obtained  by  vibrating  the 
cutting  sapphire  in  a  direction  at  right-angles  to  the  normal  pick- 
up arm  and,  if  the  note  is  very  soft,  the  amplitude  of  the  groove  will 
be  small,  as  shown  at  'C  and,  if  the  note  is  very  loud,  the  amplitude 
will  be  large,  as  shown  at  'D\  It  should  be  observed  that  the  distance 
between  the  peaks  of  the  wave  form  will  remain  equal  in  both 
cases  and,  therefore,  the  frequency  will  remain  unchanged. 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS 


201 


The  layout  of  apparatus  used  in  the  disc  recording  process 
is  shown  in  Figure  83.  The  microphone  is  the  instrument  whereby 
the  sounds  are  introduced  into  the  recording  system  and  is  there- 
fore suitably  placed  within  the  field  of  pressure  waves  originating 
from  the  source  of  sound.  The  diaphragm  within  this  microphone 
will  then  be  caused  to  vibrate  in  sympathy  with  the  sound  waves 
and,  therefore,  the  initial  stage  -  taking  place  within  the  micro- 
phone-is to  transfer  these  pressure  waves  into  mechanical 
energy.  The  minute  vibrations  on  the  face  of  the  diaphragm  may 
be  employed  either  to  compress  carbon  granules  -  and  so  alter 
their  electrical  resistance  -  to  change  the  capacity  of  an  electrical 
condenser,  to  move  a  coil  of  wire  within  a  magnetic  field  or  to 
change  the  pressure  exerted  upon  a  piezo-electric  crystal.  Which- 
ever type  of  instrument  is  used  it  is  obvious  that  the  microphone 
accepts  pressure  waves  which  impinge  on  the  outer  diaphragm 
and  create  mechanical  energy  and  the  instrument  itself  is  then 
capable  of  converting  this  energy  into  electrical  pulses  by  any 
one  of  the  four  systems  outlined  above. 

However,  the  electrical  energy  so  created  is  very  small  and  must, 
therefore,  be  amplified  before  it  is  of  sufficient  strength  to  operate 
the  stylus  cutting  head  in  the  recorder.  This  cutting  head  may  be 
'tracked'  either  inwards  or  outwards  from  the  centre  of  the  wax 
recording  medium  and  by  a  very  accurately  machined  lead-screw. 
This  lead-screw  is  geared  to  and  positively  driven  by  the  motor 
used  to  rotate  the  turn- table  upon  which  the  wax  is  supported. 
The  drive  to  the  turn-table  is  supplied  from  a  synchronous  motor 
and  through  a  mechanical  filter  unit  designed  to  absorb  any  small 
variations  in  speed,  which,  of  course,  would  result  in  small  varia- 
tions in  pitch  if  they  were  allowed  to  pass  to  the  turn-table. 

The  camera  and  turn-table  motors  are  both  connected  through 
an  electrical  interlock  so  that,  once  started,  synchronism  is  main- 


RECORDING    WAX 
1 


MOTOR 
DRIVING 
TURNTASLE 


Fig.  83. — General  layout  of  disc  recording  process. 


202 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


MAGNETIC 
POLE  PIECES 


ARMATURE 
SPEECH    COIL 

ENERGISED   FROM   MICROPHONE 
AND  AMPLIFIER 


,-.P  NPE   o.riM,  STYLUS 


Fig.  84. — The  cutting  head  (disc  recording). 


tained  between  the  two  motors  throughout  the  entire  operation. 
In  the  early  days  considerable  difficulty  was  experienced  in  re- 
recording  sections  of  speech  from  many  discs  so  that  they  would 
all  match  up  with  a  composite  reel  of  pictures  after  the  production 
had  been  edited.  A  number  of  studios  accordingly  decided  to 
produce  the  finished  picture  entirely  and  then  to  rehearse  the  actors 
again  and  again  until  they  were  'word  perfect'  and  able  to  repeat 
their  lines  in  synchronism  with  the  film.  Under  these  conditions 
the  turn-tables  would  then  be  electrically  interlocked  with  the 
projectors  during  the  're-recording'  process  and  not  with  the 
cameras  as  shown  in  the  figure. 

A  cross  sectional  view  of  the  cutting  head  is  shown  in  Figure 
84.  The  fluctuating  currents  from  the  microphone  are  fed,  via  the 
amplifier,  into  the  small  speech  coil  mounted  around  the  armature. 
These  varying  currents  cause  the  armature  to  vibrate  between  the 
pole  pieces  of  an  electro-magnet  and,  since  the  armature  is  pivoted 
to  permit  oscillation  only  in  the  plane  indicated  by  the  arrows, 
the  wax  disc  will  in  this  case  be  required  to  rotate  in  a  direction 
either  towards  or  away  from  the  observer  when  looking  directly 
at  the  diagram. 

These  early  discs  were  recorded  on  an  instrument  similar  to 
that  shown  diagramatically  in  Figure  85.  In  this  figure  a  central 
heavy-duty  motor  supplies  drive,  through  flexible  couplings  and 
oil  damping  gear-boxes,  both  to  the  recording  turn-table  and  also 
to  the  lead-screw  used  to  traverse  the  cutter  across  the  disc.  It  is 
the  distance  which  the  recorder  head  moves  to  the  right  each 
time  the  turn-table  makes  one  revolution  which  decides  auto- 
matically the  fundamental,  or  unmodulated  separation  of  the 
grooves.  It  should  be  noted  that  when  the  cutting  head  moves 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS 


203 


away  from  the  centre  as  the  recording  proceeds,  this  means  that 
the  records  are  played  from  the  centre  outwards,  that  is,  in  the 
reverse  direction  to  the  conventional  gramophone  record.  This 
method  was  originally  chosen  for  two  reasons;  Firstly,  because 
when  reproducing  the  sound,  the  amount  of  record  material  which 
will  pass  under  the  needle  in  one  revolution  will  be  very  much 
smaller  in  the  centre  of  the  disc  than  it  would  be  at  the  outer  edge. 
This  in  turn  means  that  the  space  in  which  a  high  frequency  wave 
form  can  be  accommodated  is  very  small  at  the  centre  of  the  disc 
in  comparison  with  that  at  the  edge.  It  is  therefore  an  advantage 
to  have  a  new,  sharp  needle  in  use  when  the  oscillations  caused  by 
following  the  groove  are  likely  to  be  most  rapid.  It  should  be 
remembered  that  these  records  each  played  for  approximately  16 
minutes  and,  by  the  time  the  needle  reached  the  outer  convolution 
it  had  become  very  worn,  The  second  reason  for  starting  the  record- 
ing at  the  centre  is  that  the  blank  hub  of  the  disc  could  be  conveni- 
ently used  to  indicate  the  exact  position  in  which  to  lower  the  pick- 
up and  so  to  start  in  synchronism  with  the  picture  film. 


CUTTER 

DEPTH 

REGULATOR 


,1 1 


j=^=Hl}{|j^J>i====^ 


Fig.  85. — Early  disc  recording  apparatus. 


204  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

The  material  in  which  the  original  recording  is  cut  is  a  fairly 
hard  wax,  rather  like  beeswax,  but  actually  a  blended  metallic 
soap  and,  before  use,  is  approximately  2-inches  (50*7-mm)  thick. 
As  the  sapphire  cutter  ploughs  a  groove  into  the  wax  a  considerable 
amount  of  swarf  or  shavings  become  liberated  and,  to  prevent 
these  retarding  the  free  movement  of  the  cutter,  they  are  immedi- 
ately drawn  away  by  a  suction  jet,  located  close  to  the  cutting 
head.  A  microscope,  mounted  to  the  left  of  the  machine,  is  used 
to  inspect  the  cut  for  quality  and  depth.  Should  the  recording  be 
faulty  it  is  possible  to  shave  the  top  layer  of  wax  away  and  start 
once  more.  The  usual  depth  to  which  the  grooves  are  made  is 
0  -0025-inch  (0  -064-mm)  and  therefore  many  'cuts'  can  be  made 
in  a  new  wax  before  it  must  be  replaced  although,  once  a  successful 
cut  has  been  obtained,  the  whole  body  of  wax  is  then  used  in 
making  the  final  disc.  Disc  recordings  have  one  very  great  advantage 
over  film  tracks  in  that  they  may  be  'played  back'  immediately 
they  have  been  cut  although,  of  course,  such  action  will  render  wax 
of  this  type  unsuitable  for  making  the  final  moulding.  However, 
this  means  of  immediately  checking  the  recording  was  found  to  be 
so  valuable  that  it  became  usual  to  make  two  recordings  simulta- 
neously, one  to  'play  back'  and  the  other  to  keep  as  a  'master', 
if  the  'play  back'  showed  it  to  be  a  successful  recording. 

Once  the  wax  has  been  checked  and  found  to  be  correct  it  is 
then  plated  with  a  copper  deposit  so  that  a  very  fine  metallic 
surface,  exactly  following  the  wax  contour,  is  obtained.  If  the 
copper  is  applied  by  electro-deposition  it  is  necessary  first  to  coat 
the  wax  with  very  fine  graphite  powder  to  ensure  that  the  surface 
will  be  electrically  conductive.  Once  this  fine  layer  of  copper  has 
been  successfully  applied  it  may  be  built  up  until  it  is  of  sufficient 
thickness  to  be  easily  handled  without  risk  of  causing  distortion 
or  warping.  The  copper  plate  is  then  stripped  from  the  wax  and 
is  used  as  a  master  'negative'  in  which  the  sound  track  now  appears 
as  raised  bands.  It  is  quite  possible  to  make  the  normal  compound 
mouldings  from  this  master  but,  since  it  now  represents  the  only 
record  of  what  may  easily  be  a  valuable  scene  (the  original  wax 
having  been  destroyed  in  the  stripping  process)  it  is  only  used  to 
make  a  metal  equivalent  of  the  original  wax.  At  this  point  it  is 
interesting  to  compare  this  process  with  that  of  picture  negative 
production. 

The  original  wax  recording  may  be  likened  to  the  original 
camera  negative.  The  first  copper  impression  to  the  master 
positive  film  and  the  first  moulding,  again  in  metal,  to  the  first 
duplicate  negative  used  in  picture  work.  Having  now  obtained  a 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS  205 

metal  disc  equivalent  in  all  characteristics  to  the  original  wax 
recording,  any  number  of  positive  copies,  that  is,  discs  in  which 
the  sound  bands  are  raised  up  instead  of  being  cut  in  grooves, 
can  now  be  made  and  used  to  produce  the  final  compound 
mouldings. 

High  pitched  notes,  especially  when  recorded  at  the  centre  of 
the  disc,  appear  as  exceptionally  short  period  waves,  originally 
cut  with  very  acute  corners.  After  the  several  copies  which  must 
be  made  to  produce  the  metal  'moulding  positive'  these  acute 
wave  forms  naturally  loose  some  of  their  fine  outline  and,  as  we 
shall  see  later,  these  losses  correspond  to  the  slight  loss  in  high 
frequency  resolution  which  occurs  when  film  sound  tracks  are 
repeatedly  copied  from  successive  duplicate  negatives. 

In  the  early  days  of  sound  films  these  discs  were  16-inches 
(40-64-cms)  in  diameter  and  rotated  at  a  speed  of  33  1  /3  revolu- 
tions per  minute.  It  was  thereby  possible  to  project  a  full  1,000-ft 
(304-8-metres)  roll  of  pictures  during  the  playing  time  of  one  disc 
and,  naturally  this  made  possible  the  synchronism  of  disc  and 
film  before  the  machines  were  started  and,  assuming  some  form  of 
electrical  interlock  were  employed,  such  synchronism  would  be 
maintained  throughout  the  entire  roll  of  film.  It  should  be  noted 
that,  in  those  days,  the  picture  film  was  still  travelling  at  the  silent 
film  speed  of  16  pictures  per  second  and,  therefore,  a  1,000-ft 
(304-8-metres)  roll  of  film  would  run  for  just  over  16  minutes. 
As  will  be  seen  later,  it  was  in  order  to  improve  the  sound  recording 
quality  that  the  film  speed  had  to  be  increased  to  24  pictures  per 
second  when  a  photographic  sound  track  was  printed  onto  the 
picture  film. 

Modern  Disc  Recordings 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  disc  recording  is  still  extensively  used 
in  modern  studio  work  although,  of  course,  only  as  an  intermediate 
stage  in  film  production.  Many  instances  arise  when  it  is  a  great 
advantage  to  obtain  immediate  'play-back'  of  sound  on  the 
studio  'floor'.  One  example  of  this  is  when  an  elaborate  'dance 
sequence'  is  required;  it  will  then  be  necessary  to  have  the  spec- 
iality dancers  performing  so  that,  eventually,  their  movements 
may  be  accurately  synchronised  to  music  which,  for  many  reasons, 
could  not  be  recorded  directly  from  a  'live'  orchestra  arranged 
on  the  'floor'  and  repeatedly  playing  the  number  for  every 
'take'  which  may  be  necessary  before  a  satisfactory  result  is 
produced. 
Under  such  conditions  the  orchestra  is  first  recorded  under 


206  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

ideal  conditions,  both  on  a  sound-film  and  also  on  a  disc  record. 
The  sound  film  will  eventually  be  used  to  'marry'  to  the  final 
picture  of  the  dance  but,  during  all  rehearsals  and  during  the 
actual  floor  'shooting',  the  disc  will  be  'played-back'  whilst  the 
action  is  being  photographed.  Such  discs  normally  carry  synchro- 
nising sound  signals  (similar  signals  having  been  recorded  on  the 
sound  film  at  the  time  when  both  film  and  disc  were  made). 
During  the  floor  shooting  the  sound  film  recording  channels  are 
usually  operated  also  and  the  sound  from  the  play-back  disc  is 
again  recorded  on  film.  This  rough  floor  music  is  of  great  help 
to  the  editors  when  they  eventually  'lay'  the  final  sound  tracks 
and,  naturally,  also  provide  a  convenient  medium  to  give  sound 
accompaniment  to  the  'daily  rushes'. 

The  discs  used  for  recording  in  this  way  are  of  acetate  cellulose 
lacquer  coated  on  an  aluminium  centre  support.  They  are  there- 
fore unbreakable  and,  under  ideal  conditions  of  reproduction, 
may  be  played  back  approximately  100  times  with  ease. 

Magnetic  Film  Recording 

Modern  developments  in  this  field  have  lead  to  the  perfection  of 
iron  oxide  and  similar  coatings  on  35-mm  film  for  use  in  Studios 
and  on  smaller  films  for  the  'narrow  gauge'  users.  The  widespread 
impression  that  magnetic  recording  is  a  new  concept  is  quite 
wrong -its  use  dates  back  to  1898  and  is  fully  described  by 
Dr.  O.  K.  Kolb  in  a  paper  in  British  Kinematography,  Volume 
15,  No.  2,  August,  1949. 

Much  new  equipment  is  now  being  installed  in  Studios  which 
not  only  makes  possible  recordings  of  the  type  usually  hitherto 
made  on  discs,  but  also  the  original  recording  of  actual  dialogue. 
When  applied  to  dialogue  recording  the  process  is  claimed  to 
effect  considerable  economies  both  in  materials  and  man-power. 

The  well  known  advantages  of  magnetic  recording  are  (a) 
immediate  play-back,  (b)  very  remarkable  signal-to-noise  ratio, 
(c)  erasure  of  unwanted  recordings  and  (d)  use  of  the  same  length 
of  film  very  many  times.  Whilst  no  problems  are  involved  when 
magnetic  recordings  are  used  to  replace  disc  equipment,  con- 
siderable care  must  be  taken  when  dialogue  is  recorded  to  be  in 
synchronism  with  a  picture  film  since  conventional  visible  markings 
are  not  possible.  Whilst  it  is  thought  that  magnetic  recordings  will 
soon  replace  'photographic'  systems  within  the  studios,  it  is 
doubtful  if  they  will  appear  in  the  final  version  of  a  film  as  it  is 
presented  in  the  cinemas  for  some  years  to  come. 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND  TO  FILMS  207 

Photographic  Sound  Recording 

Although  the  synchronism  between  early  disc  and  picture  film 
was  maintained  to  a  remarkable  degree,  it  was  very  apparent  that 
both  production  technique  and  ease  of  projection  would  be 
greatly  assisted  if  the  sound  record  could  be  embodied  with  the 
picture  on  the  same  film  and  alongside  the  picture  frames.  Long 
before  the  first  disc  type  of  talking  picture  became  popular 
sound  had  been  recorded  onto  photographic  film  but,  at  that  time 
it  occupied  such  a  large  area  that  the  pictures  could  not  be  pro- 
jected to  the  customary  screen  sizes  and,  in  any  case,  the  sound 
quality  was  very  poor. 

One  of  the  earliest  efforts  to  embody  sound  and  picture  within 
one  film  strip  and,  at  the  same  time,  still  to  retain  the  usual  picture 
dimensions,  was  invented  by  Mrs.  Von  Madeler  and  was  a  very 
natural  development  from  the  sapphire  cut  disc  recordings.  A 
'U'  shaped  metal  frame,  pivoted  at  one  corner  and  attached  at  the 
other  to  the  vibrating  diaphragm  of  a  recording  horn  (rather  like 
a  'speaking  tube'  used  by  deaf  people)  was  mounted  close  to  the 
edge  of  the  constantly  moving  film.  Between  the  arms  of  the  'U' 
shape  frame  was  mounted  a  rotating  spindle  carrying  a  finely 
pointed  cutting  wheel.  Since  the  metal  frame  would  oscillate 
according  to  the  deflections  of  the  horn  diaphragm,  the  rotating 
cutting  wheel  would  be  moved  into  or  away  from  the  edge  of  the 
film  and  would,  therefore,  cut  a  'saw-toothed'  pattern  along  the 
film  edge.  The  wear  and  tear  caused  by  reproducing  this  mechanical 
track  soon  destroyed  its  quality  and  the  invention  therefore  met 
with  little  success. 

The  earlier  efforts  to  record  sound  photographically  as  modula- 
tions in  light  intensity  were  slowly  being  perfected  and  soon  formed 
the  basis  of  the  modern  sound  recording  systems.  It  was  realised 
that,  if  a  microphone  and  amplifier  could  be  made  to  cause  a 
sapphire  needle  to  vibrate  in  sympathy  with  sound  waves,  it  should 
be  possible  to  replace  this  needle  with  either  a  shutter,  to  vary  the 
amount  of  light  which  reached  the  film,  or  by  a  mirror  which 
could  be  oscillated  by  the  amplified  sound  currents  and  so  trace 
out  a  photographic  sound  pattern  similar  to  the  mechanical  pattern 
cut  by  Mrs.  Von  Madeler's  rotating  wheel.  The  first  of  these  two 
possibilities  required  some  form  of  light  valve  to  produce  a  track 
of  constant  width  but  of  varying  density  and,  because  of  this, 
became  known  as  'the  variable  density'  system.  The  second 
possibility  required  some  form  of  mirror  galvanometer  with  which  to 
vary  the  position  of  a  light  beam  of  constant  intensity  and,  therefore, 
became  known  as  'the  variable  area'  system  of  sound  recording. 


208 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


BATTERY 


MICROPHONE 


ffl 


MOVING  FIXED  GRID 

grid\    ■  y 

LAMP 


PIVOT 


SOUND  TRACK 
REA 


OBJECTIVE    LENS 


FILM  VIEWED   FROM  ABOVE  GATE 

Fig.  86. — Lauste's  original  sound  film  recording  system. 

Light  Valves 

The  first  successful  light  valve  was  invented  by  Eugene  Lauste 
and  was  the  subject  of  a  master  patent,  granted  in  August  1907. 
This  patent  was  so  worded  that  it  covered  all  the  key  requirements 
of  both  photographic  sound  recording  systems  and,  although 
financially  handicapped,  Lauste  realised  the  importance  of  his 
work  and  the  patent  ran  into  seven  editions.  It  is  very  unfortunate 
that,  since  any  patent  becomes  common  property  after  sixteen 
years,  Lauste  was  unable  to  obtain  any  benefit  from  his  pioneer 
work  since  sound  films  only  appeared  in  public  after  his  patent 
had  expired. 

The  principle  of  the  Lauste  mechanism  for  recording  both 
sound  and  picture  is  seen  in  Figure  86.  The  film  used  in  this 
mechanism  was  divided  into  two  sections  of  equal  width,  one  to 
accommodate  the  picture  and  the  other  the  sound  track.  Signals 
received  from  the  microphone  caused  an  electro-magnet  to 
oscillate  lever  'A'  in  the  same  manner  that  diaphragms  in  telephone 
ear-pieces  operate  at  present.  Since  this  lever  was  pivoted  about 
its  centre  the  moving  grid,  consisting  of  alternate  opaque  and  clear 
strips  and  supported  at  right  angles  to  this  lever,  would  also 
oscillate  and  therefore  modulate  the  light  passing  from  the  lamp 
and,  through  the  fixed  grid,  to  the  film. 

Modern  variable  density  recording  methods  still  employ  the 
basic  principle  of  modulating  a  light  beam  of  constant  width  but 
these  methods  have  undergone  many  changes  since  the  time  of 
Lauste's  invention.  The  track  is  now  only  approximately  0-100- 
inch  (2'5-mm)  wide,  as  compared  with  the  original  width  of 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO   FILMS 


209 


0*  500-inch  (12-68-mm),  and  the  frequency  range  it  is  now  possible 
to  reproduce  faithfully  could  never  have  entered  the  originators 
wildest  dreams.  By  the  year  1930  the  light- valve  as  we  now  under- 
stand it  was  being  used  with  much  success  but,  before  considering 
the  method  whereby  such  valves  are  operated,  it  is  necessary  to 
establish  the  principle  behind  the  action  of  coils  of  wire  which 
carry  varying  currents  and  which  are  mounted  within  magnetic 
fields. 

Figure  87  shows  a  sectional  view  of  the  construction  of  a 
moving-coil  radio  speaker.  The  outer  field  magnet  consists  of 
a  circular  housing,  supporting  a  pillar  'B'  at  its  centre.  A  coil  of 
wire,  known  as  the  'field  coil',  is  wound  round  this  central  pillar 
and,  when  excited  by  a  source  of  direct  current,  produces  a  mag- 
netic field  between  the  pole  pieces.  A  second  coil  of  wire,  known 
as  the  'speech  coil',  is  so  mounted  that  it  is  freely  suspended  within 
the  gap  between  the  field  pole  pieces.  If  a  current  is  now  passed 
through  the  speech  coil  a  second  field  will  be  set  up  and  will  react 
with  the  magnetic  flux  already  existing  between  the  field  pole  pieces. 
If  this  second  current  is  from  a  constant  D.C.  source  the  speech  coil 
will  be  permanently  moved  either  towards  or  away  from  the  field 
coil  but,  if  the  current  is  alternating,  the  coil  will  vibrate  due  to 
the  constant  changing  magnetic  forces  acting  between  the  two 
coils.  These  vibrations  will  be  in  sympathy  with  the  varying 
current.  In  practice,  of  course,  the  current  to  the  speech  coil  is 
obtained  by  amplifying  the  signal  from  a  microphone  and,  there- 
fore, the  coil  will  oscillate  in  synchronism  with  the  diaphragm  of 
the  microphone  and  so  reproduce  the  sound  waves  which  origin- 
ally created  these  currents. 


FIELD  MAGt>£T 


Fig.  87.— The  moving  coil  speaker. 


14 


210 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


FIELD 

coin 


TO  FILM   AND  LENS 

HOLLCW 

.,    .„,. >~ 


SPRING  CONSTANT 

ENSION  LIGHT   BEAM 

DEVCE  @ 


Fig.  88.— Principles  of  the  Light  Valve. 


Now  let  us  consider  a  single  loop  of  wire  as  shown  in  Figure  88 
at  'A'.  If  the  sides  of  this  loop  are  held  very  close  to  each  other, 
and  connection  is  made  to  a  D.C.  current,  it  is  obvious  that 
two  magnetic  fields  will  be  set  up,  one  around  each  side  of  the  loop. 
These  fields  will  tend  to  repel  each  other  and  to  force  the  loop 
apart.  If  the  steady  D.C.  current  is  now  replaced  by  a  alternating 
current,  such  as  would  be  obtained  from  the  amplified  signals  from 
a  microphone,  the  strength  of  the  magnetic  fields  will  be  con- 
tinually varying  and,  in  consequence,  the  wires  will  be  parted 
or  drawn  together  in  sympathy  with  these  changes  in  flux.  To 
increase  the  strength  of  these  reactions  the  wires  are  not  circular 
but  rectangular  in  section  -  with  the  longer  sides  of  the  rectangles 
facing  each  other.  Once  more  it  is  necessary  to  place  the  wires 
between  electro-magnets  to  ensure  that  the  flux  changes  set  up  by 
the  speech  currents  have  a  permanent  force  against  which  to  thrust. 
It  is  also  necessary  to  place  the  wires  under  a  mechanical  tension 
to  guard  against  their  touching  each  other  if  the  amplitude  of  the 
signals  should  become  too  large  and  'over-load'  the  valve. 

The  actual  arrangement  of  a  simple  light  valve  based  upon  these 
principles  is  seen  at  'B',  Figure  88.  A  loop  of  Duralumin  ribbon 
is  passed  round  a  spring  tension  pulley  and  so  constrained,  by 
four  adjustable  guides,  that  it  forms  a  narrow  slit  over  an  area 
covered  by  the  field  magnet.  The  two  ends  of  the  loop  are  attached 
to  adjustable  clamps  by  which  the  ribbon  may  be  brought  under 
tension.  Leads  from  the  amplifier  are  attached  to  these  clamps 
and  supply  the  varying  speech  currents  to  the  valve.  A  cross- 
sectional  view  of  the  valve  is  seen  at  'C  and  illustrates  the  relative 
positions  of  the  pole  pieces  and  the  Duralumin  ribbon.  The  upper 


THE   ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS 


211 


pole  piece  is  formed  from  the  core  of  the  electro-magnet  -  which 
is  bored  out  through  the  centre  to  permit  the  modulated  light  beam 
to  pass,  via  a  suitable  lens  system,  to  the  film.  The  lower  pole  piece 
is  secured  by  an  adjustable  plate  which  may  be  mounted  very 
accurately  with  relation  to  the  upper  pole  piece.  By  this  means 
it  is  possible  to  obtain  the  necessary  small  gap  between  the  two 
pole  pieces.  The  lower  pole  piece  is  also  bored  out  to  permit  the 
steady  light  beam  from  the  illuminating  system  to  pass  to  the 
modulating  ribbons  of  the  valve. 

The  general  layout  of  an  early  Western  Electric  recording 
machine,  fitted  with  the  'ribbon'  type  light  valve,  is  seen  in  Figure 
89.  Light  from  the  recorder  lamp  is  focused  on  to  the  objective 
lens  by  means  of  a  condenser  lens  mounted  within  the  lamp  house, 
the  light  valve  previously  described  is  situated  between  the  con- 
denser and  the  objective  lenses  and  is  carefully  aligned  with  the 
optical  centre  so  that  the  beam  of  light  will  be  accurately  modulated 
by  the  valve.  The  film  is  drawn  from  the  upper  supply  magazine 
and  passed  round  two  large  sprocket  wheels  of  equal  size.  Sound 
is  recorded  at  a  point  on  the  left  hand  sprocket  wheel  as  far  from 
the  inlet  and  outlet  to  the  film  magazines  as  is  possible.  This  point 
is  selected  to  ensure  that  any  uneven  film  motion,  due  to  the  drag 
of  the  supply  spool  or  to  the  over-drive  of  the  take-up  spool,  will 
be  isolated  by  the  right  hand  sprocket  wheel.  The  motion  of  the 
film  past  the  recording  point  should  therefore  be  as  steady  as  the 
accuracy  with  which  the  sprocket  teeth  are  cut,  plus  the  accuracy 
with  which  the  perforations  are  located  in  the  film.  Although  the 
manufacturing  tolerances  on  sound  negative  film  are  similar  to 
those  for  picture  negative,  the  tolerances  on  the  size  of  the  sound 
sprocket  teeth  are  usually  closer  than  those  for  picture  camera 


LIGHT  VAIA/E 
rfi-pVw— 

FOGGER  ( 

o 

\  UPPER  FILM 
J  MAGAZINE 

J             FLYWHEEL 

*dU 

objective/ 
lower  film1 

MAGAZINE  y 

£\ 

Ml/  FLEXIBLE 
j\    1     /   COURJNC 

/ 

-SYNCHRONOUS 
MOTOR 


Fig.  89. — Early  Western  Electric  recording  machine 


212  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

sprockets  and,  in  fact,  are  equal  to  those  for  sprockets  used  in 
continuous  printing  machines.  Obviously,  the  variations  in 
sprocket  teeth  pitch  and  the  distance  between  the  perforations  may 
tend  to  cancel  each  other  out  in  one  instance  whereas,  by  using  a 
different  recorder  or  another  roll  of  film,  they  may  work  against 
each  other  and  tend  to  increase  the  film  speed  variations. 

Referring  back  to  Figure  89  it  must  be  realised  that  the  entire 
mechanism  was  driven  by  a  synchronous  motor,  electrically  inter- 
locked to  rotate  at  a  speed  equal  to  that  of  the  picture  camera 
motors.  The  motor  shaft,  carrying  a  heavy  fly-wheel,  was  coupled  to 
the  recording  machine  through  flexible  connections.  A  small 
tubular  lamp,  fitted  directly  above  the  recording  sprocket,  was 
used  in  this  machine  to  fog  a  synchronising  mark  onto  the  film 
when  the  recording  commences.  The  picture  cameras  were  also 
fitted  with  similar  lamps  and,  since  both  lamps  were  connected 
together,  a  single  switch,  in  the  form  of  a  push-button,  may  be  used 
to  momentarily  fog  each  negative  and  so  establish  synchronism 
between  sound  and  picture. 

Since  some  interlocking  systems  do  not  become  effective  until 
the  motors  have  reached  full  speed,  synchronising  marks  were 
not  fogged  onto  the  film  until  a  signal  was  given  that  the  cameras 
and  recorders  were  running  at  90-ft  (27  •  4-metres)  per  minute, 
that  is,  at  24  pictures  per  second.  It  will  be  noticed  that  this 
speed  is  increased  from  that  which  was  used  with  the  disc  recording 
method  and,  as  will  be  explained  later,  this  was  necessary  to 
ensure  that  sufficient  film  is  made  available  to  accommodate  the 
highest  frequencies  which  may  be  required  to  maintain  good  sound 
quality. 

General  Notes  on  Light  Valves 

The  foregoing  description  indicates  the  early  type  of  studio 
equipment  used  to  record  sounds  via  light  valve  modulators. 
Whilst  it  serves  well  to  introduce  the  principle  of  this  method,  it 
must  not  be  taken  as  representative  of  modern  apparatus.  The 
valve  shown  in  Figure  88  may  be  termed  a  'two-string'  valve  and 
it  would  normally  produce  a  sound  track  of  a  width  similar  to 
that  found  on  normal  'release'  films  in  the  cinema  to-day  -  such 
tracks  are  generally  known  as  '100-mil  tracks'  since  the  width 
of  the  recording  is  0*  100-inch. 

Modern  studio  recordings  are  made  with  light  valves  con- 
taining either  three  or  four  'strings'  or  ribbons  and  an  associated 
optical  system  capable  of  producing  two  sound  tracks  alongside 
each  other. 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS  213 

Because  of  this  these  studio  recordings  are  known  as  '200-mil 
push-pull  tracks'.  The  term  'push-pull'  indicates  that  the  track  is 
really  two  recordings  so  arranged  that  the  modulation  in  one  is 
exactly  180°  out  of  phase  with  that  in  the  other -with  such  an 
arrangement  the  light  passed  through  such  tracks  on  reproduction 
may  be  picked  up  by  two  photo-cells,  again  connected  out  of 
phase,  and  to  a  push-pull  amplifier.  Several  types  of  distortion  are 
greatly  reduced  by  this  method,  particularly  second-order  har- 
monics and  rectification  effects. 

Modern  equipment  is  also  capable  of  greatly  assisting  to  reduce 
the  general  level  of  'ground  noise'  -  a  term  used  to  describe  the 
background  or  surface  noise  associated  with  the  granular  structure 
of  a  photographic  emulsion.  Present  day  light  valves  and  ampli- 
fiers are  capable  of  closing  together  the  valve  strings  when  the 
volume  of  sound  becomes  low  -  thus  producing  a  'thin'  negative 
and  a  dark  positive  film  and  so  reducing  the  surface  noise  of 
quiet  passages.  Similarly,  the  mean  spacing  of  the  valve  ribbons 
may  be  automatically  increased  to  accommodate  very  loud 
sound  passages. 

The  200-mil  studio  recordings  are  only  used  up  to  the  'dubbing' 
stage  of  production  -  beyond  this  stage  the  track  is  re-recorded 
to  produce  the  normal  100-mil  track  as  used  in  general  cinemas. 

Aeo  or  Glowlamp  Recording 

At  the  time  when  sound  on  film  was  first  introduced  portable 
and  mobile  recording  equipment  had  not  been  designed.  The 
Newsreel  companies  were  therefore  faced  with  two  alternatives, 
either  to  'post-record'  the  commentary  back  at  the  studio,  and  so 
to  forego  the  possibility  of  recording  news  sounds  as  well  as 
pictures,  or  to  devise  some  attachment  which  could  be  fitted  to 
the  picture  camera  so  that  sound  could  be  photographed  onto 
the  same  negative  as  the  picture.  Until  such  an  invention  was 
made  the  sound  accompaniment  to  newsreels  consisted  of  announ- 
cers' commentaries  plus  suitable  post-recorded  music.  Unfortu- 
nately such  music  followed  the  pattern  set  by  the  old  silent  film 
days  and  audiences  came  to  expect  certain  pieces  of  music  to 
accompany  certain  events.  For  example,  when  a  race  meeting  was 
photographed  it  was  invariably  the  rule  to  select  a  high  camera 
position  over  a  turn  in  the  track  and,  as  the  horses  galloped  round 
the  bend,  we  were  certain  to  hear  a  particular  section  from 
Ponchielli's  'Dance  of  the  Hours'!  However,  it  was  not  long 
before  an  invention  by  Theodore  W.  Case  made  possible  the 
Fox-Case  Movietone  news,  photographed  by  cameras  fitted  with 


214 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

AEP   CtCHPMP     ^ 


SIGNAL  INPUT  © 
FROM  AMPLIFIER  « 
ANO  MICROPHONE^ 


350  VOLTS  DC 
IO  MILLIAMPF.RES 


£ 


IMUiAMfcCTER 


Fig.  90.— The  "aeo-light"  modulator. 


a  device  capable  of  recording  sound  alongside  the  picture  and  on 
the  same  negative  film. 

The  Movietone  camera  was  made  possible  by  the  ability  of 
certain  gas-filled  lamps  to  vary  in  brightness  in  true  relationship 
to  the  current  which  is  passing  through  them.  The  properties  of 
'glowlamps',  as  they  are  called,  had  been  known  for  some  time  but, 
in  their  early  form,  these  lamps  were  unsuitable  for  sound  record- 
ing since  they  did  not  respond  instantly  to  changes  in  current, 
did  not  retain  a  straight  line  or  proportional  relationship  between 
current  changes  and  output  brightness  and  certainly  did  not 
produce  a  light  of  sufficient  intensity  to  record  over  a  very  narrow 
slit  on  a  fast  moving  film. 

The  redesigned  lamp,  known  as  the  'Aeo-light\  is  seen  in 
Figure  90  together  with  the  basic  electrical  circuit.  The  two 
plates  which  constitute  the  electrodes  of  the  lamp  are  mounted 
within  a  quartz  envelope  to  ensure  that  the  Ultra- Violet  com- 
ponent of  the  light  beam  is  transmitted  to  the  film  (this  would 
not  be  possible  if  an  ordinary  glass  envelope  was  used).  The 
Anode,  a  small  piece  of  sheet  nickel  1  /8th  inch  (3  ■  2-mm)  in  width 
and  1/4-inch  (6-4-mm)  in  length,  is  connected  through  a  con- 
denser to  one  side  of  the  output  from  a  transformer.  The  Cathode 
is  a  section  of  platinum,  formed  in  the  shape  of  a  'LP  and  coated 
with  a  mixture  of  alkaline  earth  oxides.  The  quartz  envelope  is 
filled  with  helium  gas  at  such  a  pressure  that  a  fairly  intense  glow 
is  produced  around  the  Cathode  when  a  potential  of  some  350- 
Volts  is  applied  to  the  circuit. 

Such  a  potential  is  obtained  from  storage  batteries  so  that  the 
risk  of  voltage  fluctuations  is  eliminated.  The  voltage  is  maintained 
constant  and  the  current  is  adjusted  by  means  of  the  resistance 
and  is  checked  by  the  milliameter  as  shown  in  the  circuit.  The 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS 


215 


amplified  signal  from  the  microphone  is  applied  to  the  input  side 
of  the  transformer  and  is  thereby  superimposed  upon  the  steady 
current  in  the  circuit.  This  causes  the  intensity  of  the  glow  around 
the  Cathode  to  be  modulated  in  sympathy  with  the  speech  currents 
and  in  direct  proportion  to  these  currents. 

Originally  a  quartz  slit,  having  an  aperture  0*  10-inch  (2*  54-mm) 
in  width  and  0*  0006-inch  (0'015-mm)  in  length,  was  mounted 
in  front  of  the  glowlamp  and  arranged  within  a  floating  guide  shoe 
so  that  it  pressed  very  lightly  against  the  film.  Later  designs 
included  optical  means  for  focusing  the  slit  onto  the  film  without 
the  need  for  this  sliding  contact.  The  position  of  the  glowlamp, 
relative  to  the  picture  film  and  camera,  is  seen  in  Figure  91. 
Obviously,  one  of  the  greatest  requirements  for  such  a  system  to 
be  successful  is  that  the  continuously  rotating  sprocket  shall  be 
exceptionally  well  made  and  shall  rotate  with  perfect  uniformity. 

Naturally  this  system  of  sound  recording  is  one  which  produces 
the  so-called  Variable  Density  sound  track  of  constant  width. 
It  will  be  noticed  that  the  sound  is  recorded  in  advance  of  the 
picture  and,  to  those  who  may  not  be  familiar  with  sound  equip- 
ment, this  may  appear  to  be  an  unnecessary  complication. 

There  are,  of  course,  two  important  reasons  for  this  displace- 
ment. Firstly,  it  is  impossible  to  mount  all  the  mechanism 
required  to  move  the  film  and  also  to  record  the  sound  in  the 


CONTINUOS    SPROCKET 


Fig.  91.— The  "aeo-light"  fitted  to  camera  for  direct  recording. 


216  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

small  space  available  just  behind  the  aperture  or  gate.  The  second 
and  more  important  reason  is  that,  as  we  have  seen  previously, 
the  film  must  be  moved  intermittently  through  the  picture  gate  so 
that  each  picture  area  is  brought  to  rest  for  a  sufficiently  long  period 
to  record  a  single  frame  as  a  'still'  picture  but,  when  recording 
sound,  it  is  essential  that  the  film  shall  be  moving  perfectly 
uniformly  past  the  recording  point  in  order  to  avoid  'flutter'  or 
'wow'  in  the  reproduction. 

The  distance  which  separates  the  sound  and  picture  apertures 
is  governed  by  two  considerations.  Firstly,  the  design  and  arrange- 
ment of  the  moving  parts  in  both  cameras  and  projectors  -  that  is 
a  physical  limitation.  Secondly,  the  shortest  path  which  the  film 
can  take  in  order  to  eliminate  completely  the  intermittent  move- 
ment created  by  the  picture  requirements  and  to  establish  continual 
movement  before  the  film  reaches  the  sound  gate.  This  distance  may 
vary  from  one  design  to  the  next  -  some  designers  may  be  able  to 
establish  constant  motion  at  a  point  much  nearer  to  the  intermit- 
tent gate  than  others.  To  ensure  that  all  films  would  maintain 
synchronism  between  lip  movement  in  the  picture  and  the  repro- 
duction of  the  corresponding  sounds  from  the  track  when  used 
on  all  makes  of  projectors,  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers 
established  a  standard  dimension  which  should  exist  between  the 
picture  and  its  corresponding  sound  record.  For  35-mm  standard 
cinema  films  this  distance  is  15-inches  (38*l-cms)  or  20  frames, 
the  sound  being  always  located  ahead  of  the  picture. 

Although  the  introduction  of  the  glowlamp  system  of  sound 
recording  certainly  helped  the  Newsreels  and  was  also  used 
extensively  for  studio  work,  it  suffered  from  two  disadvantages 
which  ultimately  caused  producers  to  abandon  the  method.  The 
most  serious  drawback  was  that,  since  both  the  sound  and  the 
picture  were  originally  recorded  on  one  negative  material,  only 
one  development  could  be  given  when  the  film  was  processed. 
It  very  quickly  became  obvious  that  the  optimum  processing  con- 
ditions for  a  sound  track  were  very  rarely,  if  ever,  similar  to  those 
for  a  picture  negative.  As  we  shall  see  later,  the  general  processing 
of  variable  density  sound  tracks,  that  is,  those  produced  by  a 
light-valve  or  a  glowlamp,  is  more  critical  than  that  for  variable 
area  tracks  although,  when  the  maximum  response  over  a  wide 
frequency  range  is  called  for,  both  systems  require  equally  rigid 
control  and  it  is  almost  impossible  to  say  that  one  system  is  any 
more  difficult  than  the  other.  However,  if  a  reasonable  sound 
reproduction  might  be  obtained  by  processing  a  variable  area 
track  together  with  its  picture,  this  is  certainly  not  true  of  the 


THE   ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS  217 

variable  density  system.  The  second  drawback  only  became 
apparent  when  other  recording  systems  had  progressed  beyond 
the  capabilities  of  the  glowlamp. 

The  faithfulness  with  which  sound  may  be  reproduced  obviously 
depends  upon  the  frequency  range  which  the  recording  and 
reproducing  equipment  is  capable  of  handling  without  introducing 
distortions.  The  glowlamp  was  only  capable  of  responding  to 
variations  in  current  up  to  a  frequency  of  approximately  5,000 
per  second,  above  which  it  failed  to  react  in  a  manner  proportional 
to  the  input  fluctuations  and  consequently  distortion  was  intro- 
duced. The  standard  test  for  modern  equipment  is  that  it  shall  be 
capable  of  faithfully  recording  a  pure  frequency  of  at  least  9,000 
cycles  per  second.  Those  interested  in  radio  amplification  may 
question  the  need  for  this  high  range  since  the  majority  of  com- 
mercial amplifiers  'cut  off'  or  fail  to  respond  above  6,000  cycles 
per  second.  Quite  apart  from  the  wisdom  in  having  recording 
equipment  capable  of  meeting  the  requirements  of  improved 
amplifiers,  which  will  undoubtedly  become  available,  it  is  also  a 
fact  that  this  extra  range  is  already  worth-while.  If  two  sound 
tracks  are  made  so  that  one  is  known  to  cut  off  at  6,000  cycles 
per  second  and  the  other  extends  to  9,000  cycles  per  second,  a 
difference  in  reproduction  will  be  detected  when  both  are  played 
through  an  amplifier  which  is  known  to  cut  off  at  6,000  cycles 
per  second.  This  difference  is  believed  to  be  due  to  a  very  slight 
alteration  in  the  character  of  the  recorded  wave  form  which  changes 
the  'timbre'  of  the  reproduced  sounds. 

Mirror  Galvanometers 

The  third  basic  method  of  recording  sound  waves  photographically 
produces  a  Variable  Area  Track  in  which  the  actual  wave  form  is 
traced  out  as  the  boundary  between  opaque  and  clear  sections  of 
the  film  and  may  therefore  be  easily  seen  under  the  microscope. 
To  understand  this  system  fully  it  is  necessary  to  consider  briefly 
the  action  of  the  galvanometer  shown  in  Figure  92.  If  a  coil  of 
wire  as  shown  at  'CC,  is  suspended  in  a  magnetic  field  it  comes 
under  the  influence  of  a  coupling  force,  the  size  of  which  is  pro- 
portional to  the  current  flowing  through  the  coil.  When  current  is 
flowing  the  coil  is  therefore  deflected  or  rotated.  This  coil  may  be 
either  rectangular  or  circular  in  shape  and  consists  of  a  number 
of  turns  of  very  fine  wire.  It  is  mounted  upon  a  suitable  former  and 
suspended  by  clamps  so  as  to  be  centrally  placed  between  two 
large  pole-pieces,  'N'  and  *S\  which  are  attached  to  a  permanent 
magnet.  The  coil  suspension  is  usually  a  length  of  fine  phosphor- 


218 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  92. — The  galvanometer. 


bronze  wire  as  shown  at  'F',  and  which  is  also  used  to  bring  the 
current  into  the  coil.  After  passing  through  the  coil  the  current 
leaves  by  a  loose  section  of  phosphor-bronze  indicated  at  'G\ 

Whilst  the  current  is  flowing  the  magnetic  couple  rotates  the 
coil  to  such  an  extent  that  a  second  couple,  due  to  the  twist  in 
the  strip  'F',  becomes  equal  and  opposite  in  force,  and  therefore 
brings  the  coil  to  rest  in  a  position  of  balance.  Since  a  soft-iron 
core  'A'  is  mounted  within  the  space  between  the  sides  of  the  coil 
former,  the  coil  rotates  within  a  circular  space  between  this  core 
and  the  pole-pieces.  The  magnetic  field  across  this  space  is  radial 
and  the  coil  therefore  remains  within  a  field  of  constant  strength 
as  it  rotates  and,  most  important  of  all,  the  degree  of  rotation  is 
therefore  proportional  to  the  current  flowing  through  the  coil. 
Let  it  now  be  assumed  that  a  small  mirror  is  attached  to  the  sus- 
pension 'F',  as  shown  just  above  the  coil.  Light  reflected  by  this 
mirror  will  sweep  through  an  angle  proportional  to  the  current 
passing  through  the  coil  and,  if  that  current  is  supplied  from  a 
microphone,  via  the  amplifier,  the  oscillations  of  the  light  beam 
will  be  proportional  to  the  fluctuating  speech  currents. 

The  basic  arrangement  of  such  an  apparatus  is  shown  in  Figure 
93,  where  a  constant  beam  of  light,  from  a  lamp  fed  by  a  D.C. 
supply,  is  focused  by  a  condenser  onto  the  mirror  in  the  galvano- 
meter. As  the  mirror  oscillates,  due  to  the  varying  speech  currents, 
a  lens  focuses  the  motion  down  to  a  fine  spot.  This  spot  oscillates 
across  a  slit,  cut  in  a  mask  behind  which  the  recording  film  is 
travelling.  The  trace  made  by  such  a  system  is  shown  to  the  right 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS 


219 


of  the  diagram  and  is  seen  to  be  of  the  simplest  form.  It  will  be 
realised  that  the  light  spot  is  rather  longer  than  half  the  slit  width 
so  that  only  one  side  of  the  spot  travels  across  the  aperture.  This 
early  form  of  Variable  Area  recording  suffered  from  difficulties 
encountered  in  manufacturing  the  necessary  thin  slit  and  keeping 
it  free  from  dust  particles.  To  give  some  idea  of  this  problem  it 
should  be  remembered  that  9,000  cycles,  each  accurately  defined, 
were  required  to  be  photographed  within  a  distance  of  12-inches 
(30*  5-cms);  assuming  the  film  speed  to  be  at  the  rate  of  16  pictures 
per  second,  that  is,  at  the  old  silent  film  speed.  This,  meant  that  one 
complete  cycle  occupied  a  distance  of  0* 0013-inch  (0*033-mm). 
If  such  a  frequency  was  to  be  accurately  recorded  the  slit  width 
would  need  to  be  even  smaller  than  this. 

The  first  step  made  to  improve  this  condition  was  to  adopt  a 
film  speed  of  24  pictures  per  second.  However,  it  should  not  be 
concluded  that  the  film  speed  was  necessarily  raised  only  to  assist 
the  Variable  Area  system,  since  those  people  working  on  the 
development  of  Variable  Density  tracks  were  also  experiencing 
similar  difficulties.  At  the  new  speed  one  complete  cycle,  at  a 
frequency  of  9,000  per  second,  now  occupied  a  distance  of  0-  002- 
inch  (0'051-mm).  Although  this  was  considerably  larger  than  that 
previously  obtained,  it  still  suffered  from  mechanical  disadvantages, 
and  an  improved  system  was  introduced  in  which  the  moving 
light  spot  was  projected  onto  a  large  slit,  thus  producing  an 
enlarged  image  of  the  trace  over  a  correspondingly  large  aperture. 
This  projected  image  was  then  optically  reduced  by  a  microscope 
objective  lens  system  to  form  an  image  of  the  required  dimensions 
upon  the  film. 

By  1932  the  Mirror- Galvanometer  system  was  again  changed, 
this  time  to  increase  the  sensitivity  of  the  system.  The  new  arrange- 


•axis  of  dotation 
iof  mirsor 


Fig.  93. — Principle  of  Variable  Area  film  recording. 


220 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  94. — Bi-Iateral  variable  area  recording. 


merit  is  seen  in  Figure  94  and,  since  it  forms  the  basis  of  modern 
Variable  Area  recording  machines,  it  is  necessary  to  examine  this 
system  very  closely.  Light  from  the  constant  D.C.  source  'L'  is 
focused  by  the  condenser  lens  'C  upon  the  'window  lens'  4B\ 
A  mask  'M',  in  which  is  cut  a  triangular  shaped  aperture  'A',  is 
mounted  very  close  to  the  condenser  lens.  A  new  type  of  galvano- 
meter is  used  and  it  is  important  to  realise  that  its  axis  of  rotation 
is  at  right-angles  to  that  of  the  earlier  instruments,  that  is,  the 
mirror  oscillates  up  and  downwards  instead  of  from  side  to  side. 
The  galvanometer  is  so  placed  that  it  reflects  an  image  of  the  mask 
aperture  onto  a  screen  *S\  A  very  narrow  slit  is  cut  horizontally 
across  the  centre  of  this  screen  and  a  lens  'E'  is  used  to  converge 
the  triangular  image  so  that  its  base  is  just  wider  than  this  slit. 
As  the  triangular  image  at  'D'  moves  up  or  down  past  the  slit 'S' 
a  narrower  or  wider  beam  of  light  will  pass  through  it.  A  micro- 
scope objective  lens  'O'  focuses  an  image  of  this  slit  onto  the  film 
and  produces  an  equilateral  track  as  shown  to  the  left  of  the 
diagram.  Obviously,  the  added  sensitivity  is  obtained  because  the 
width  of  the  illuminated  area  is  decreased  or  increased  from  both 
sides  at  once.  In  other  words,  the  angle  through  which  the  mirror 
need  rotate  in  order  to  change  the  length  of  the  illuminated 
section  of  the  slit  from  zero  to  100%  is  approximately  half  that 
which  would  be  required  by  the  earlier  system.  It  should  be  noted 
that  the  triangular  slit  in  the  mask  'M'  is  extended  at  the  base  to 
include  a  section  with  parallel  sides  of  constant  width.  This  is 
added  in  order  to  avoid  objectional  distortion  which  would  occur 
if  the  system  became  overloaded  and  the  base  of  the  triangle  were 
to  cross  the  slit  in  screen  'S\ 


THE   ADDITION   OF  SOUND   TO   FILMS 


221 


Push-Full  Tracks 

Although  we  have  not  yet  considered  the  sound  reproducing  head, 
it  is  necessary  at  this  point  to  mention  that,  in  some  amplifier  cir- 
cuits, it  is  possible  to  connect  output  valves  in  parallel  and  so  more 
than  double  the  power  of  this  'stage'.  In  case  it  may  be  thought  that 
two  valves  cannot  possibly  give  more  than  twice  the  power  produced 
by  one  valve,  it  must  be  added  that  such  an  output  is  produced  due 
to  the  reduction  of  harmonics  and  an  effective  reduction  in  dis- 
tortion. However,  more  details  of  the  actual  system  will  be  given 
when  the  sound  reproducing  circuits  are  considered.  The  only 
reason  for  mentioning  amplifier  circuits  at  this  stage  is  to  point 
out  that  so  called  'Push-PulP  output  valves  will  only  operate 
successfully  when  the  signal  applied  to  one  valve  is  directly  opposite 
and  proportional  to  that  applied  to  the  other  valve.  We  must 
assume  at  this  stage  that,  given  a  double  sound  track,  the  reproducer 
will  be  capable  of  isolating  each  track  and  feeding  it  to  the  cor- 
responding valve. 

The  single  triangular  mask,  as  shown  at  *A\  Figure  95,  moves 
across  the  slit  'C  and  produces  a  track  as  shown  at  *D\  If  we  now 
replace  the  single  triangle  by  two  smaller  triangular  apertures,  as 
shown  at  'B',  and  cause  them  to  oscillate  across  'Q',  a  double 
rack  will  be  produced  as  seen  at  'E\  It  should  be  noticed  that  one 


0 


® 


®  © 

Fig.  95.— Push-Pull  Class  A  recording. 


222  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

triangle  is  inverted  with  respect  to  the  other  so  that,  as  one  beam  of 
light  becomes  wider  the  other  beam  will  be  closing  down  towards 
the  centre.  Of  course,  both  triangles  are  cut  in  one  aperture  plate 
and,  since  they  are  both  reflected  by  one  galvanometer,  they  both 
oscillate  vertically  and  in  phase.  Referring  now  to  the  actual  track 
produced  by  this  system,  we  see  that,  when  one  track  is  almost 
closed,  the  other  is  opened  to  a  maximum.  Thus  we  have  produced 
the  required  conditions  and,  assuming  that  one  track  can  always  be 
related  to  one  of  the  two  output  valves,  (which,  it  will  be  remem- 
bered, were  connected  in  parallel  in  the  amplifier),  the  signal 
applied  to  this  valve  will  be  at  a  maximum  when  that  applied  to 
the  other  is  at  a  minimum.  This  type  of  recording  is  known  as  the 
'Class  A,  Push-Pull'  method. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  'Push-Pull,  Class  A'  tracks  may 
also  be  produced  by  the  Variable  Density  method  of  sound 
recording,  and  in  this  case,  two  pairs  of  light-valve  ribbons  are 
employed  and  so  connected  that,  when  one  pair  is  at  a  maximum 
'open'  position,  the  other  will  be  at  a  minimum. 

Ground  Noise  Reduction 

The  importance  and  definition  of  'Ground  Noise'  in  relation 
to  sound  recording  can  only  be  fully  understood  if  we  are  able  to 
measure  the  relative  volume  of  various  sounds.  This  relative 
volume  is  usually  expressed  in  terms  of  the  'Decibel'.  The  decibel 
is  the  unit  of  electrical  transmission  and  is  best  defined  as  follows:  - 
Firstly,  the  power  output  obtained  from  a  circuit  must  be  divided 
by  the  power  put  into  it.  The  quotient  so  obtained  must  then  be 
converted  to  a  logarithm.  When  this  logarithm  has  been  multiplied 
by  ten  the  resultant  figure  will  be  the  loss  or  gain  in  decibel  units. 
For  example,  if  one  sound  has  twice  the  energy  of  another, 
and  it  is  required  to  find  the  difference  between  the  two  in  terms 
of  decibels  the  procedure  is  as  follows:  -  (1)  The  difference  between 
the  two  sounds,  in  terms  of  energy,  has  been  given  as  two.  (2)  The 
logarithm  of  two  will  be  found  to  be  0-3.  (3)  By  multiplying  0*3 
by  ten  a  quotient  of  3  is  obtained.  This  quotient  3  is  then  in  decibel 
units  and  it  can  therefore  be  said  that  a  sound  having  twice  the 
energy  of  another  is  3  decibels  louder  than  the  other.  Again,  if  one 
sound  has  five  times  the  energy  of  another,  it  is  first  necessary  to 
find  the  logarithm  of  five,  which  is  approximately  0-7,  and  then  to 
multiply  this  by  ten,  which  produces  a  quotient  of  7-0.  Thus,  a 
sound  having  five  times  the  energy  of  another  will  be  7  decibels 
louder  than  the  other.  The  decibel  is  also  used  to  measure  the 
performance  of  amplifiers.  If  the  amplifier  in  a  sound  projector 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND  TO  FILMS  223 

magnifies  the  input  signal  by  100  times,  it  will  be  seen  that  the 
amplifier  has  a  'gain'  of  20  decibels,  since  the  logarithm  of  100  is 
2  and,  by  multiplying  this  by  ten  as  in  the  previous  cases,  the 
quotient  is,  of  course,  twenty. 

A  change  of  one  decibel  is  just  about  the  smallest  change  in 
volume  which  can  be  detected  by  the  human  ear  and  is  equivalent 
to  approximately  \2\%.  The  intensity  of  sounds  are  usually 
measured  as  being  so  many  decibels  above  the 'audible  threshold'. 
A  soft  whisper  at  a  distance  of  3-ft  (0-9-metres)  is  approximately 
15  decibels  above  the  threshold;  normal  speech  is  approximately 
70  decibels  above  this  threshold  and  a  full  orchestra,  playing 
fortissimo,  approximately  115  decibels  above  the  threshold. 

At  this  point  one  may  well  ask  what  all  this  has  to  do  with 
photographic  sound  tracks.  If  film  is  running  through  a  pro- 
jector, and  no  sound  is  recorded  on  the  track  which  is  any  of  those 
types  shown  in  the  previous  illustrations,  the  soft  hiss  of  the  ampli- 
fier circuit  will  be  increased  by  approximately  10  decibels  -  nearly 
as  much  as  a  soft  whisper  3-ft  (0-9  metres)  from  the  ear.  This 
small  increase  is  only  obtained  when  the  film  is  perfectly  clean 
and,  assuming  it  carries  a  constant  photographic  density  over  at 
least  part  of  the  scanned  area,  approximately  7  decibels  volume 
increase  will  be  due  to  the  film  base  and  the  remaining  3  decibels 
to  the  graininess  of  the  metallic  silver  in  the  photographic  density. 

This  increased  volume,  due  solely  to  placing  film  in  the  pro- 
jector, is  known  as  'ground  noise'  and  it  should  be  obvious  that 
this  noise  will  also  be  present  when  actual  sounds  are  being 
reproduced.  It  is  therefore  concluded  that  the  final  sound  which 
comes  through  the  speaker  is  made  up  of  three  components:  - 
Firstly,  the  hiss  due  to  the  amplifier  and  film  scanning  circuit. 
Secondly,  the  ground  noise  due  to  the  film  base  and  emulsion 
grain.  Thirdly,  the  required  variable  area  or  variable  density 
track  recording. 

When  the  signal  level  is  high,  as  would  be  the  case  when  a  full 
orchestra  is  recorded,  the  ground  noise  will  not  be  detected. 
However,  when  the  signal  is  low  as  would  be  the  case  when  the 
voice  of  one  person  whispering  has  been  recorded,  the  ground 
noise  may  be  detected.  The  important  stage  occurs  when  no  signal 
is  recorded  at  all  since  the  ground  noise  may  then  become  very 
apparent.  Unfortunately  silent  passages  usually  occur  when  some 
highly  dramatic  action  is  taking  place  -  such  as  detectives 
stalking  the  criminal  through  a  deserted  street  in  the  dead  of  night  - 
and  it  is  then  that  ground  noise  tends  to  destroy  the  artistic  effect. 
Many  people  find  it  difficult  to  believe  that  these  relatively  small 


224 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  96. — Noise  reduction  with  Variable  Area  recording. 

points  are  really  worth  while.  It  can  only  be  pointed  out  that 
although  each  improvement,  taken  separately,  may  not  of  itself 
show  a  noticeable  advance,  it  must  be  remembered  that  all  para- 
sitic noises  are  additive  and  that  any  measure  taken  to  reduce  the 
cause  of  such  noises  does  lead  to  a  general  overall  improvement 
throughout  the  Industry. 

It  has  been  stated  that,  of  the  ten  decibels  unwanted  noise 
produced  by  unmodulated  film,  seven  of  these  are  due  to  the  film 
base  and  only  three  to  the  emulsion  grain.  It  would  therefore  seem 
likely  that  the  overall  noise  could  be  reduced  considerably  if 
arrangements  could  be  made  to  keep  clear  film  base  covered  with 
emulsion  during  the  silent  or  unmodulated  passages.  One  of  the 
methods  by  which  this  can  be  achieved  is  illustrated  in  Figure  96. 
In  this  design  the  image  of  the  triangular  aperture  shown  at  'A' 
is  reflected  by  a  galvanometer  which  normally  comes  to  rest  in 
the  mid-position  as  shown;  this  naturally  causes  the  unmodulated 
section  of  the  film  track  to  contain  a  wide  central  section  which, 
in  the  print,  will  be  clear  film  as  shown  below  the  diagram.  However 
it  is  possible  to  apply  a  bias  to  the  galvanometer  so  that  the 
mirror  oscillates  about  a  different  centre  according  to  the  amount 
of  this  bias. 

In  practice  the  bias  is  equal  to  the  overall  amplitude  of  the 
modulations  so  that,  when  the  volume  of  sound  is  great,  the  bias 


THE   ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS  225 

will  shift  the  centre  of  oscillation  towards  'D'  and,  if  the  volume  is 
small,  this  centre  of  oscillation  will  be  near  the  peak  of  the  triangle, 
as  shown  at  'E\  When  no  signals  are  passing  through  the  circuit 
the  bias  will  shift  the  galvanometer  to  a  stationary  point  so  that 
the  minimum  width  is  exposed  down  the  centre  of  the  film  track. 
It  must  be  realised  that  the  size  of  the  mirror  oscillations  due  to 
the  volume  remain  unaltered.  It  is  only  the  position  in  which  the 
mirror  is,  or  the  centre  of  oscillation,  which  is  changed.  The 
track  below  slit  image  'B'  represents  the  positive  print  obtained 
from  such  a  negative.  The  speed  at  which  the  overall  envelope 
is  reduced  or  increased  must  obviously  be  below  the  audible  range 
in  order  to  prevent  its  appearance  as  a  low  frequency  hum  in  the 
reproduction. 

Sound  Recording  Films 

At  this  point  it  is  necessary  to  draw  attention  to  the  different 
requirements  of  the  two  systems  of  sound  recording  as  they  affect 
the  type  of  film  selected  for  this  work.  An  emulsion  suitable  for 
recording  variable  density  tracks  must  have  a  high  degree  of  reso- 
lution with  a  comparatively  low  gamma  or  contrast  and  also  a 
wide  latitude  or  tone  range.  High  resolution  is  obviously  necessary 
to  ensure  that  the  minute  structure  which  constitutes  the  track 
shall  be  faithfully  reproduced.  It  is  also  necessary  that  the  emulsion 
shall  not  scatter  light  as  it  penetrates  the  sensitive  layer  and  that 
halation,  or  reflections  from  the  back  of  the  support,  shall 
not  occur.  Both  or  either  of  these  failings  would  tend  to  reduce 
the  effective  resolution  of  the  film  with  a  consequent  loss  in  high 
frequency  response.  A  high  degree  of  resolution  is  only  obtained 
with  difficulty  if,  at  the  same  time,  it  is  essential  that  a  wide  exposure 
range  and  low  gamma  shall  be  retained  since  these  factors  usually 
bear  a  reciprocal  relationship  to  each  other. 

The  variable  area  system  of  sound  recording  requires  somewhat 
different  emulsion  characteristics  since  the  exposed  sections  must 
be  developed  to  a  high  density  while  the  unexposed  areas  remain 
perfectly  clear  and,  of  course,  the  dividing  line  or  envelope  be- 
tween these  areas  must  be  as  sharply  defined  as  possible.  These 
features  require  the  emulsion  to  be  of  fine  grain,  have  a  high 
resolving  power  and  a  high  gamma.  The  exposure  range  is  relatively 
unimportant.  It  is  therefore  seen  that  the  greatest  difference 
between  the  two  systems  is  briefly  that  the  variable  density  system 
requires  an  emulsion  having  a  low  gamma  and  a  wide  exposure 
range,  whereas  the  variable  area  system  requires  an  emulsion 
having  a  high  gamma  and  an  exposure  range  which  is  not  so 

15 


226 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


34*=- 

32- 

30- 

28- 

26- 

24- 

22- 

2C  - 

18- 

»6- 

14- 

!-2- 

IO- 

O  8  - 

Q6- 

04- 


EASTMAN    SOUND  RECORDING  FILM     TYPE  1357 


GAMMA  -2-30, 
Df  9MINS. 
<]DI6) 


-22 


IOO  ooo  ico  ?oo 

LOG  EXPOSUPh' 

Fig.  97. — Sound  recording  film  characteristics. 


important.  Both  systems  require  an  emulsion  of  high  resolution 
and  very  fine  grain. 

Fortunately  it  has  been  possible  to  obtain  several  sound  record- 
ing emulsions  which  will  satisfy  both  systems,  examples  being 
Eastman  Types  1357,  5398  and  5372,  and  Gevaert  S.T.4.  The 
characteristics  of  one  emulsion,  Eastman  Type  1357,  are  shown  in 
Figure  97.  Tt  will  be  noticed  that,  when  the  emulsion  is  developed 
in  Kodak  D-16  solution,  a  high  gamma  and  consequently  a  short 
exposure  range  is  produced,  thereby  making  the  material  suitable 
for  recording  variable  area  sound  tracks.  However,  when  the  same 


Fig.  98.-  control  of  inwge  resolution. 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS  227 

emulsion  is  developed  in  Kodak  D-103  solution,  a  low  active 
developer,  a  very  low  gamma  and  correspondingly  very  long 
exposure  range  is  obtained,  thereby  making  the  film  admirably 
suited  to  the  variable  density  recording  system.  The  resolution  of 
this  emulsion  is  approximately  50  lines  to  the  millimeter  and  this 
figure  remains  unaltered  when  the  film  is  processed  in  solution 
D-16  or  solution  D-103. 

Some  readers  may  not  be  familiar  with  the  term  'Resolving 
Power'  and  this  may  be  briefly  described  as  follows.  If  a  test- 
object  consisting  of  a  number  of  parallel  lines,  separated  by  spaces 
equal  in  thickness  to  the  lines  themselves,  is  photographed  and 
developed  in  the  normal  manner,  it  will  be  possible  to  place  the 
negative  under  a  microscope  and  to  count  the  number  of  these 
lines  which  are  contained  with  a  certain  unit  distance,  measured 
along  the  film  base.  A  series  of  such  test-objects  is  then  made  and 
on  each  one  the  lines  and  the  spaces  between  them  are  made 
progressively  smaller  and,  consequently,  more  are  obtained  within 
unit  area  on  the  chart.  It  will  then  be  possible  to  decide  how  closely 
these  lines  may  be  placed  on  the  film  emulsion  before  they  diffuse 
into  an  unrecognisable  mass.  The  film  just  described  was  stated  to 
have  a  resolution  of  50  lines  to  the  millimeter  which  therefore 
means  that  it  would  be  possible  to  'resolve'  fifty  distinct  lines 
separated  by  equally  thick  white  spaces  in  a  piece  of  film  one 
millimeter  in  length. 

Of  course  such  a  resolution  is  only  obtained  under  closely 
controlled  conditions  and  will  not  be  obtained  if  the  film  is  not 
exposedto  the  optimum  density,if  the  image  contrast  is  low  or  if  the 
development  time  is  prolonged.  Some  idea  of  the  accuracy  with 
which  these  variables  must  be  controlled  if  the  maximum  resolution 
is  to  be  obtained  is  given  in  Figure  98.  These  curves  represent  a 
fine  grain  emulsion  especially  designed  for  variable  density  sound 
recording. 

It  should  be  noticed  that  a  resolution  of  80  lines  to  the  milli- 
meter can  be  obtained  at  an  image  density  of  1  •  3  but,  if  the  density 
rises  to  2-0  the  resolution  will  then  fall  to  65  lines  per  millimeter. 
From  the  second  graph  it  will  be  seen  that  a  resolution  of  80  lines 
per  millimeter  is  only  obtained  when  the  image  contrast  is  1,000 
but,  in  this  case,  the  resolution  only  falls  off  very  gradually  -  a 
resolution  of  75  lines  per  millimeter  still  being  obtained  when  the 
contrast  has  fallen  to  50.  A  more  critical  situation  exists  in  the 
final  graph  where  it  is  seen  that  a  resolution  of  80  lines  per  milli- 
meter is  obtained  when  the  image  density  is  0*  30  and  at  a  develop- 
ment time  of  4  minutes  (obviously  this  curve  only  hold  true  with 


228  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

one  particular  developing  solution,  one  particular  temperature 
and  a  known  state  of  agitation).  As  the  developing  time  increases 
the  resolving  power  drops  rapidly  until,  at  8  minutes,  it  has  fallen 
to  40  lines  to  the  millimeter. 

Resolving  Powers  as  high  as  150  lines  per  mm.  are  now  quite 
common  but  it  is  important  to  realise  that  these  results,  so 
necessary  to  the  final  sound  quality,  can  only  be  obtained  if  the 
equipment  and  processing  conditions  are  very  accurately  controlled 
to  maintain  a  good  average  negative  density,  correct  image  con- 
trast and  accurate  processing  time  and  solution  activity. 

Variable  Area  versus  Variable  Density 

A  very  natural  question  to  ask  at  this  point  is  'which  is  the  better 
system  to  use,  Variable  Area  or  Variable  Density?'  From  the 
foregoing  very  brief  outline  of  the  growth  of  sound  film  recording 
processes  it  should  be  obvious  that  improvements  made  to  one 
system  are  usually  not  possible  with  the  other  system  until  further 
research  work  has  been  carried  out.  It  is  therefore  not  surprising 
that  for  many  years  the  scales  were  first  weighted  in  favour  of 
variable  area  and  then,  as  some  improvement  was  made  to  the 
other  system,  they  turned  in  favour  of  variable  density. 

As  has  been  shown,  both  systems  are  well  able  to  record  fre- 
quencies up  to  9,000  cycles  per  second,  both  are  now  provided 
with  means  to  reduce  the  ground  noise  as  and  when  silent  or  quiet 
passages  occur  in  the  sound  tracks,  both  are  capable  of  providing 
'push-pull'  types  of  sound  tracks  for  use  with  modern  amplifiers 
and  both  are  equally  flexible  in  the  methods  employed  to  make 
duplicate  copies,  in  editing  and  re-recording. 

Perhaps  the  most  amazing  feature  of  sound  recording  as  a 
whole  is  that  recent  developments  in  the  moulding  compounds  and 
waxes  used  in  the  disc  recording  process  have  made  possible  the 
faithful  reproduction  on  discs  of  a  frequency  range  equal  to  and 
in  isolated  cases,  even  beyond  that  of  the  photographic  methods ! 
However,  in  case  some  projectionists  may  be  shuddering  at  the 
possibility  of  returning  to  the  16-inch  disc,  it  should  be  added  that 
no  system  of  ground  noise  reduction,  such  as  squeezing  the  grooves 
or  raising  the  pick-up  arm  from  the  disc  has  yet  been  developed  and, 
from  this  point  of  view,  both  the  density  and  area  film  systems 
still  have  advantages  over  the  latest  disc  recordings.  On  the  other 
hand  one  must  admit  the  possibility  of  magnetic  recordings  in 
the  future  and  the  very  high  signal-to-noise  ratios  already  assoc- 
iated with  them. 


THE  ADDITION  OF  SOUND   TO  FILMS 


229 


LOUD  SPt/JCtB 

coNVtfrrwo 
ELEcraiccn' 

IMTO  SOCND 


MICROPHONE 
CONVERTING 

SOUND   *TO 

electricity 


REPRODUCER  CONVERTING  THE 

VARIATIONS   IN  TRANSMISSION 

Of    THE     FILM   INTO    ELECTRICAL 

ENERGY 


DEVELOPMENT 
ETC  OF  THE 
POSITIVE 


LIGHT  VALVE  SYSTEM 


Fig.  99. — The  cycle  of  sound  recording. 


The  Sound  Cycle 

To  complete  the  picture  let  us  briefly  consider  the  cycle  of  sound 
on  film  reproduction  -  from  the  original  source  of  the  sounds  to 
their  final  reproduction  in  the  theatre  speakers.  Figure  99  shows 
the  complete  cycle  of  events  in  the  form  of  a  'flow  sheet."  The 
pressure  waves  created  at  the  source  'X'  impinge  on  the  dia- 
phragm of  the  microphone  and  set  up  fluctuations  in  electrical 
current.  These  fluctuations  are  then  passed  to  the  amplifier,  the 
output  from  which  is  used  in  the  recording  head  to  change  the 
intensity  of  a  light-source  in  accordance  with  these  amplified 
electrical  pulses.  The  film  then  records  these  light  changes  as  a 
narrow  variable  density  or  area  'track'.  This  sound  negative  is 
then  developed  in  a  continuous  processing  machine  and  sub- 
sequently printed  onto  a  positive  film  which  will  also  carry  the 
picture  image. 

This  positive  film  is  then  processed  in  a  second  continuous 
machine  which  contains  a  different  solution  to  that  used  to  develop 
the  negative.  The  positive  film  is  then  scanned  in  the  projector 
sound  head  and  the  variations  in  light  transmission  are  again 
converted  to  electrical  fluctuations.  These  electrical  fluctuations 
are  then  amplified  and  caused  to  operate  the  loud  speakers 
located  to  the  rear  of  the  cinema  screen.  The  diaphragm  of  the 
speakers  then  create  air  impulses  which  travel  to  the  ear  drum  and 
finally,  the  nerve  system  transmits  these  impulses  to  the  brain 


230  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

where  they  are  recognised  as  the  original  sound.  Excluding  the 
source  of  sound  and  the  ear,  there  are  therefore  ten  stages  through 
which  the  impulses  must  be  transferred  before  they  reappear  and, 
obviously,  the  slightest  variation  in  quality  at  any  stage  will  be 
multiplied  as  the  process  develops. 


CHAPTER  8 

SOUND    FILM    PROCESSING 


General  Considerations 

The  Mechanical  design  of  machinery  used  to  process  sound 
film  negatives  and  positives  is  essentially  similar  to  that  of  picture 
processing  machinery  but  the  conditions  under  which  each  machine 
is  operated  are  quite  different. 

Firstly,  it  must  be  realised  that  the  most  satisfactory  results  can 
only  be  obtained  from  a  sound  negative  which  has  been  processed 
in  a  manner  which  would  not  produce  equally  high  quality  in  a 
picture  negative.  We  therefore  find  chemical  differences  between 
the  developing  solutions  used  in  the  two  machines  and  also 
differences  in  the  time  each  film  is  immersed  in  the  developing 
solutions.  As  has  been  seen  previously,  the  type  of  developer 
and  the  time  it  is  in  operation  on  any  one  section  of  film  affect  not 
only  the  resultant  image  density  but  also  the  contrast  between 
tones,  the  emulsion  grain  size  and,  consequently,  the  resolving 
power.  It  should  now  be  obvious  that  not  only  is  the  development 
required  by  picture  negatives  different  to  that  required  by  sound 
tracks,  but  also  that  a  variable  density  track  -  which  depends 
upon  accurate  tone  reproduction  -  will  require  a  different  develop- 
ment to  that  most  suitable  for  variable  area  tracks. 

When  any  large  volume  of  work  is  involved  the  chemical 
difference  in  the  developing  solutions  requires  that  processing 
machines  shall  be  set  aside  especially  for  each  type  of  recording. 
The  time  factor  is,  of  course,  simply  a  mechanical  one  since,  by 
threading  the  film  through  more  or  less  transporting  racks  orr 
equally  well,  by  shortening  or  lengthening  the  film  loops  in  each 
rack,  the  time  of  development  may  be  controlled. 

Sound  film  processing  may  therefore  be  broadly  divided  into 
three  main  categories:  Firstly,  the  developer  and  the  timing  to 
produce  the  most  satisfactory  variable  area  sound  track;  secondly, 

231 


232  PRINCIPLES  OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 

the  developer  and  timing  necessary  to  produce  the  variable  density 
tracks  and,  thirdly,  the  type  of  developer  and  operating  time 
necessary  to  produce  the  combined  positive  'married  print'  carry- 
ing both  sound  and  picture.  It  has,  of  course,  been  pre-supposed 
that  the  film  emulsions  have  also  been  chosen  to  produce  the 
required  density,  contrast  and  resolution  under  these  conditions. 

In  our  earlier  considerations  of  general  sensitometry  it  was 
found  that  strips  of  film  carrying  a  series  of  increasing  exposure 
steps  were  produced  by  an  instrument  such  as  the  Eastman  Type 
2b  sensitometer.  A  densitometer  was  then  used  to  measure  the 
result  of  exposure  and  subsequent  processing  so  that  the  combina- 
tion of  exposure  and  resultant  density  could  be  expressed  graph- 
ically, as  the  characteristic  curve  of  the  film,  by  plotting  the 
densities  against  the  logarithm  of  the  exposures. 

In  sound  film  recording  the  magnitude  of  the  initial  exposure 
given  to  the  negative  should  be  directly  proportional  to  the  volume 
of  the  original  sound  frequencies.  The  final  transmission  through 
the  positive  film  should  also  vary  with  equal  proportionality  to 
create  a  high  fidelity  reproduction  of  the  original  sounds.  As  has 
been  shown  previously,  transmission  is  closely  related  to  density  - 
in  fact,  the  reciprocal  of  transmission,  when  expressed  as  a 
logarithm,  is  the  accepted  measure  of  density  -  and  we  know  that 
density  differences  between  neighbouring  areas  in  a  film  image 
depend  upon  the  contrast  or  gamma  to  which  the  film  is  processed 
Whilst  these  considerations  are  more  easily  visualised  in  connection 
with  variable  density  recordings,  it  is  not  surprising  that  density 
and  gamma  values  used  to  control  any  sound  processing  must  be 
held  between  limits  considerably  closer  than  would  be  acceptable 
in  picture  processing. 

Quite  large  differences  in  tone  range  may  be  tolerated  in  the 
positive  picture  image  before  the  eye  will  become  critical,  but 
small  departures  from  the  correct  tone  balance  in  the  sound  record 
will  result  in  distortions  in  the  reproduction  which  the  ear  will 
immediately  detect. 

Any  sound  contains  two  primary  characteristics,  (1)  Frequency 
and,  (2)  Volume.  In  sound  film  recording  the  frequency  is  obtained 
by  changing  the  amount  of  light  which  strikes  the  film.  The  volume 
is  represented  by  the  magnitude  of  these  changes.  This  is  more 
clearly  understood  from  Figure  100,  where  a  simple  variable  area 
low  volume  track  is  represented  at  T,  a  simple  variable  area  high 
volume  track  at  '2',  a  variable  density  low  volume  track  at  '3'  and 
a  variable  density  high  volume  track  at  *4\  Referring  firstly  to 
track  T,  the  amount  of  light  passing  to  the  photo-cell  in  the 


SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING 


233 


LOW    VOLUME 


-HIGH    VOLUME 


VARIABLE     AREA 


VARIABLE    DENSITY 


Fig.  100. — Variations  in  volume  recorded  by  variable  area  and  variable  density 

systems. 


reproducer  will  only  be  slightly  less  in  position  'x'  than  it  will  be  in 
position  V  -  since  this  difference  is  small  the  volume  will  be  low 
although  the  number  of  times  this  difference  occurs  will  control 
the  frequency  of  the  notes.  In  track  '2',  the  amount  of  light 
passing  to  the  photo-cell  at  position  'a'  will  be  considerably 
smaller  than  that  passing  at  position  'b'  and,  therefore,  the  volume 
will  be  much  larger  than  that  produced  by  track  *1\  Now  con- 
sidering track  '3',  it  will  be  seen  that  the  amount  of  light  passing  at 
position  *c'  will  only  be  slightly  less  than  that  passing  at  position 
*d\  since  the  density  at  'c'  is  very  low.  In  track  '4',  the  amount  of 
light  passing  at  position  'e'  will  be  considerably  less  than  that 
passed  at  T,  since  the  density  at  V  is  very  high. 

The  important  point  to  be  realised  from  Figure  100  is  that 
frequency  and  volume  variations  are  obtained  in  the  area  track 
when  a  constant  density  is  employed.  In  the  density  track  the  varia- 
tions in  volume  are  obtained  by  changes  in  the  track  density.  The 
volume  range  covered  by  a  density  track  must  therefore  represent 
a  range  of  exposure  levels  on  the  negative  and  positive  films.  This 
in  turn  means  that  the  variable  area  tracks  employ  one  selected 
point  on  the  characteristic  curves  of  the  film  emulsions,  whilst  the 
variable  density  tracks  must  employ  a  wide  band  along  these 
curves. 

This  last  point  is  clearly  illustrated  in  Figure  101.  In  case  'F  the 
volume  range  employed  causes  the  light  valve  ribbons  to  close 
down  to  a  size  indicated  at  'A'  and  to  open  up  to  a  size  indicated 
hat  *B\  Te  incoming  signal  is  represented  by  the  curve  immediately 


234 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


\ 


IGHT    VALVE    OPENINGS 
CASE  I 


LIGHT  VALVE  OPENINGS' 
CASE  2 


Fig.  101. — Relationship  between  light-valve  opening  and  emulsion 
characteristic. 


above  'A*  and  'B'  and,  since  the  light  valve  aperture  'A'  causes  a 
low  exposure,  the  corresponding  point  on  the  signal  wave 
form  will  indicate  an  equally  low  exposure  when  projected  to  cut 
the  log-exposure  axis  of  the  film  characteristic  curve.  Similarly, 
since  the  aperture  4B'  causes  a  high  exposure,  the  corresponding 
point  on  the  signal  wave  form  will  indicate  a  high  exposure  on  the 
log-exposure  axis.  These  two  points  on  the  log-exposure  axis  are 
projected  to  cut  the  characteristic  curve  and,  at  the  points  of 
intersection,  horizontal  lines  are  projected  to  cut  the  density  axis. 
The  range  of  film  densities  covered  by  the  original  changes  in 
exposure  -  caused  by  the  changes  in  the  light  valve  aperture  -  is 
then  clearly  indicated. 

A  similar  diagram  indicating  the  condition  of  high  volume  is 
shown  in  case  '2',  Figure  101.  In  this  example,  the  minimum  and 
maximum  light  valve  apertures  are  such  that  the  corresponding 
exposure  values  occur  on  the  toe  and  shoulder  of  the  characteristic 
curve.  This  condition  will  result  in  the  lowest  and  highest  densities 
being  slightly  distorted. 

Such  distortions  are  more  easily  visualised  when  we  plot  a 
curve  showing  the  relationship  between  negative  film  exposure, 
taking  place  in  the  sound  recorder,  and  positive  film  transmission, 
taking  place  in  the  sound  reproducer.  If  the  amplitude  of  the  in- 
coming wave  form  is  known  and  plotted  in  relationship  to  such  a 
curve  the  degree  of  distortion  will  be  seen  immediately.  A  curve 


SOUND   FILM   PROCESSING 


235 


produced  by  plotting  negative  exposure  against  positive  trans- 
mission is  shown  in  the  upper  right-hand  quadrant  of  Figure  102. 
A  simple  incoming  wave  form  is  shown  in  the  lower  right-hand 
quadrant  and,  by  producing  lines  from  points  on  this  wave  until 
they  cut  the  exposure-transmission  curve,  it  is  possible  to  produce 
a  wave  form  in  the  upper  left-hand  quadrant  which  will  represent 
the  density  or  transmission  variations  in  the  final  positive  sound 
track.  This  figure  shows  the  exposure-transmission  curve  ceases  to 
remain  straight  at  very  low  and  very  high  exposure  levels.  Such 
levels  would  be  reached  in  practice  if  the  amplitude  of  the  incoming 
wave  were  too  big  and  would  mean  that  the  light  modulator  was 
operating  beyond  the  truly  proportional  range  of  the  photo- 
graphic system. 

Let  us  consider  point  'A'  on  the  original  wave  form.  To  maintain 
proportional  reproduction  a  vertical  line  from  'A'  should  intersect 
with  point  'C  on  the  exposure-transmission  curve.  This  would 
produce  in  turn  a  point  *E'  on  the  final  positive  wave  form.  How- 
ever, the  straight  section  of  the  exposure-transmission  curve  does 
not  extend  to  point  'C  and  the  vertical  projection  from  'A'  will 
accordingly  interesect  with  point  'D\  This  in  turn  produces  point 
§P  in  the  final  positive  wave  form  and  the  distance  between  'E' 
and  'P  indicates  the  degree  of  distortion  present.  This  distortion 
is  solely  due  to  the  fact  that  the  amplitude  of  the  incoming  wave 


ORIGINAL  WAVE   FORM 
Of  INPUT  SIGNAL 


Fig.  102,— Wave  distortion  analysis. 


236  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

produces  a  negative  exposure  range  greater  than  that  which  may  be 
accommodated  on  the  straight  or  proportional  path  of  the 
exposure-transmission  curve. 

It  is  now  possible  to  appreciate  fully  the  need  to  maintain  a 
very  long  straight  section  to  the  curve,  which  will  cover  a  wide 
exposure  range  since,  the  greater  the  undistorted  exposure  range 
the  greater  will  be  the  sound  wave  amplitude  which  can  be  faithfully 
reproduced.  However,  it  would  appear  that  we  must  not  lengthen 
this  straight  section  of  the  exposure-transmission  curve  by  altering 
its  angle  or  gamma  value,  since  it  is  only  possible  to  reproduce 
changes  in  amplitude  which  are  in  true  proportion  when  the  over- 
all gamma  value  of  the  entire  system  is  at  unity. 

The  Sensitometry  of  Variable  Density  Sound  Recording 

It  would  now  seem  that  we  must  first  establish  three  factors:  -  (1) 
the  position  on  the  negative  characteristic  curve  representing  a 
light  valve  exposure  when  no  signal  of  any  kind  is  passed,  that  is, 
the  unmodulated  unbiased  exposure,  (2)  the  degree  by  which  the 
normal  light  valve  ribbon  spacing  shall  be  biased  to  take  care  of 
noise  reduction  and,  (3)  the  excursion  along  the  characteristic 
curve  caused  by  the  valve  opening  and  closing  by  amounts  corres- 
ponding to  the  maximum  signal  amplitude  we  wish  to  record. 
Since  the  first  factor  can  more  easily  be  determined  after  establish- 
ing the  second,  we  will  now  consider  the  general  problems  affecting 
noise  reduction. 

As  has  been  explained  previously,  the  noise  created  by  film  base 
and  low  emulsion  densities  becomes  quite  noticeable  during 
passages  of  low  sound  volume.  Because  of  this,  variable  density 
light  valve  recordings  are  rendered  less  noisy  by  applying  a  bias 
current  to  change  the  mean  spacing  between  the  valve  ribbons  in 
accordance  with  the  'envelope'  of  the  frequencies  applied  to  them 
and,  during  passages  of  no  volume,  this  bias  closes  the  ribbon 
separation  considerably  below  its  normal  width. 

Special  microscopes,  designed  to  permit  the  easy  examination 
of  light  valve  ribbons  may  usually  be  so  connected  to  most 
recording  machines  that,  for  example,  the  valve  ribbons  may  be 
observed  in  the  microscope  whilst  a  biasing  current  is  applied  to 
them.  The  normal  unmodulated  separation  between  light  valve 
ribbons  is  usually  0-01-inch. 

The  amount  of  noise  reduction  usually  applied  is  of  the  order 
of  10-db  (decibels,  see  Chapter  7) -that  is,  the  valve  is  biased 
to  close  the  average  unmodulated  ribbon  separation  from  1  'O-mils 


SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING  237 

down  to  0*32-mils.  The  relationship  between  db  noise  reduction 
and  light  valve  ribbon  spacing  is  as  follows:  - 

„  ,  __  _       (normal  ribbon  spacing) 

db  noise  reduction=  20  Log 


(biased  ribbon  spacing) 


Obviously,  noise  reduction  is  a  very  essential  requirement 
and  most  studios  provide  a  means  whereby  the  actual  bias  applied 
to  all  films  is  readily  measureable.  This  is  done  by  exposing,  on 
the  end  of  every  reel  of  film  recorded,  first  a  length  with  the  valve 
operating  with  no  signal  and  no  bias  applied,  and  then  a  length 
with  no  signal  and  the  desired  biasing  current  applied  -  these 
'test  exposures'  will  provide  two  densities  at  the  end  of  each 
negative,  and  the  difference  between  these  densities  will  be  an 
indication  of  the  noise  reduction  actually  applied  to  the  valve 
during  production.  The  density  difference  will  only  remain  a 
constant  from  day  to  day  throughout  a  production  if  the  following 
conditions  are  observed:  - 

(a)  The  light  valve  remains  stable  from  day  to  day. 

(b)  The  biasing  current  applied  to  the  ribbons  remains  constant. 

(c)  The  exposure  of  the  film  -  in  terms  of  exciter  lamp  current  - 
remains  unaltered. 

(d)  The  point  on  the  characteristic  curve  of  the  film  emulsion 
corresponding  to  the  unbiased  density  either  remains  con- 
stant or,  if  it  alters,  is  so  modified  by  the  change  in  the 
shape  of  such  a  curve  that  the  difference  in  density  between 
biased  and  unbiased  exposure  remains  unaltered. 

(e)  The  photographic  speed  of  the  emulsion  remains  constant 
or  any  changes,  due  to  alteration  of  coating  'batch'  are 
corrected  by  adjustments  to  the  exciter  lamp  current. 

The  difference  in  density,  obtained  as  a  result  of  applying 
noise  reduction,  will  only  be  an  accurate  measure  of  the  actual 
noise  reduction  in  the  circuit  if  (1)  assuming  the  density  difference 
is  applied  to  the  2b  characteristic  curve,  this  curve  really  does 
represent  the  true  state  of  affairs  as  they  exist  when  exposures  are 
made  in  the  recording  machine  (as  will  be  shown,  due  to  reciprocity 
failure,  this  is  very  rarely  the  case)  or  (2)  if  a  'recorder'  character- 
istic or  factor  can  be  established  to  correct  any  differences  in  the 
2b  curves  as  a  result  of  reciprocity  law  failure. 

Before  we  go  any  further  it  is  necessary  to  establish  the  relation- 
ship between  decibels  and  the  log-exposure  steps  on  a  2b  character- 
istic curve  -  this  must  be  done  so  that  changes  in  density,  marked 


238  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

off  on  such  curves,  can  be  recognised  as  definite  changes  in  db 
levels.  Fortunately  the  relationship  is  very  simple:  - 

dbs  =  20  log  (ex  -  e2) 

where  ex  and  e2  are  the  two  exposures  which  caused  the  noise 

reduction  density  differences. 

The  db  difference  caused  when  an  exposure  is  increased  by  \/2 
(that  is,  an  increment  in  log-exposure  of  0*15,  or  a  change  on 
the  sensitometer  scale  from  one  step  to  the  next)  is  therefore  as 
follows:  - 

dbs  =  20  x  0- 15  since  log  (ex  -  e2)  must  be  0- 15  in  this  case) 
=  3-0 

In  other  words,  it  is  a  conveniently  fixed  relationship  that  1  /3 
of  the  increment  represented  by  one  step  on  the  log  E  axis  of  a 
characteristic  curve  is  equal  to  a  change  of  1-db. 

This  is  more  easily  understood  from  Figure  103  which  shows 
the  characteristic  curve  of  a  negative  sound  recording  film  (obtained 
by  exposing  the  film  in  a  2b  sensitometer  and  processing  it 
together  with  the  actual  recordings).  Point  'D*  represents  the 
exposure  obtained  when  the  light  valve  ribbons  are  at  their  normal 
spacing  (as  indicated  at  'A')  and,  in  this  case,  provides  a  density 
of  0-60.  Merely  by  marking  off  intervals  equal  to  2/3  of  a  y/2 
step  on  the  log  E  axis  it  is  then  possible  to  find  the  exposure  which 
is  expected,  at  the  moment,  to  correspond  to  valve  openings  or 
closings  in  intervals  of  2-dbs  at  a  time.  It  will  be  seen  that  -  6db 
closes  the  valve  ribbons  to  half  their  normal  width  (as  indicated 
at  'B')  and  -f6db  opens  the  ribbons  to  twice  their  normal  width 
(as  indicated  at  'C').  Point  'E'  indicates  the  -  lOdb  point  corres- 
ponding to  the  average  amount  of  bias  current  applied  to  light 
valves  to  obtain  adequate  noise  reduction.  This  means  that, 
when  no  signal  is  applied  to  the  biased  valve,  the  exposure  will 
be  at  point  'E'  and,  in  this  example,  a  track  density  of  0-33  will 
be  obtained.  Such  a  negative  density  will  result  in  a  final  positive 
film  density  of  approximately  0-90  -  quite  sufficient  to  reduce  the 
effects  of  emulsion  grain,  etc.,  during  quiet  passages. 

However,  those  densities  indicated  in  Figure  103  as  being 
obtained  for  any  applied  noise  reduction  biasing  current,  will 
only  hold  good  if  the  characteristic  curve  obtained  by  using  the 
2b  sensitometer  (at  long  exposure  times)  agrees  precisely  with  the 
recording  machine  'characteristic  curve'  (obtained  by  making 
exposures  onto  film  through  the  light  valve  and  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  valve  ribbons  open  in  \/2  steps,  that  is,  in  increments 


SOUND   FILM   PROCESSING 


239 


JJ 


u 

cc 

z> 

<rt 

O 

0. 

X 

w 

o 

u 

« 

9 

« 

1> 

'ft 

* 

< 

* 

<* 

o 

» 

« 

* 

N 

I  <&/ 

& 

7 

\ 

f 

«t 

* 

•0 

/ 

-/ 

/ 

+ 

*■ 

Jfi 


jtS 


^ 


f& 


LOG.     EXPOSURE 


I*    I*    I*    n    is    F    P    F    F    [^    (^    P    I*    |r7    |/0 


|3  If  \f  |t 

SENSITOMETEP.    STEPS 


•|TT|. 


Fig.  103. — Relationship  between  dbs  and  log-exposure. 


Fig.  104.— Comparison  between  sensitometric  and  recorder  characteristics. 


240  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

which  are  equal  to  the  log-exposure  steps  in  the  2b  sensitometer). 

When  such  a  comparison  is  made  the  effect  shown  in  Figure  104 
is  revealed.  It  should  be  noticed  that  the  'starting-off  point',  when 
the  valve  has  no  bias  applied  at  all,  is  always  known  to  produce  the 
desired  density  (in  this  case  0  •  60)  and  can  be  checked  by  practical 
tests.  Because  of  this,  the  curves  will  cross  one  another.  It  is 
shown  that  the  'recorder  characteristic  curve'  is  at  a  lower  gamma 
than  the  2b  characteristic  although  both  were  processed  together. 
This  difference  is  entirely  due  to  reciprocity  law  failure  -  or  the 
difference  in  the  factors  Intensity  and  Time  (which  go  to  make  up 
Exposure)  although,  in  both  cases,  the  product  of  intensity  and  time 
were  equal.  In  the  example  given  the  '2b  gamma'  is  0*70  and  the 
'Recorder  gamma'  is  0-50 -this  means  that  the  'recorder  factor* 
is  0  •  70  or,  in  other  words,  if  we  multiply  the  2b  gamma  by  0  •  70  we 
shall  obtain  the  recorder  gamma.  It  should  be  explained  that  this 
simple  relationship  will  only  hold  good  for  fairly  restricted  regions 
of  the  two  curves  and  to  an  approximate  degree  -  since  our  main 
concern  is  to  measure  noise  reduction  as  obtained  from  two 
isolated  points  on  such  curves,  it  is  quite  in  order  to  take  for  com- 
parison purposes  the  straight  line  or  chord  formed  by  the  biased 
and  unbiased  densities  at  the  points  where  they  cut  the  two  curves. 

A  further  important  point  is  revealed  from  Figure  104.  We  see 
that  the  higher  exposures  on  the  recording  machine  do  not  remain 
linear  -  in  fact,  the  recorder  curve  shoulders  upwards  -  this  is 
due  to  the  'rising  characteristic'  inherent  in  the  light  valves  used. 
Because  of  this  we  are  able  to  see  that  the  area  over  which  pro- 
portional exposures  can  be  made  is  strictly  limited.  In  the  case 
shown  in  Figure  104  it  is  bounded  by  points  'A'  and  'B'. 

Unless  the  light  valve  is  fed  with  reverse  biasing  currents  -  and  so 
made  capable  of  openings  beyond  its  normal  width  to  accom- 
modate very  loud  volumes  -  it  is  obvious  that  the  maximum 
recording  possible  is  when  the  valve  ribbons  open  to  0-02-inch. 
This  is  because  the  signal  which  opens  the  ribbons  by  a  certain 
amount  will,  in  the  opposite  half  of  the  cycle,  close  them  by  an 
equal  amount.  A  signal  which  opens  the  valve  to  twice  its  width 
must,  therefore,  also  close  it  until  the  ribbons  touch  each  other. 
Naturally,  the  ribbons  are  so  mounted  that  they  would  pass  under 
each  other  in  such  an  event  but,  nevertheless,  this  'clash  point' 
does  set  a  limit  beyond  which  bad  distortions  due  to  a  'flat  wave 
shape  at  peak  amplitude'  would  result. 

This  leads  us  to  our  first  requirement:  the  working  density  for  a 
normal  valve  spacing  when  no  modulation  or  bias  is  applied  to 
the  ribbons.  If  point  'A'  on  Figure  104  is  the  upper  limit  of  pro- 


SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING  241 

portionality  this  must  represent  the  exposure  through  the  valve 
when  it  is  opened  to  twice  its  normal  width  -  assuming  no  reverse 
bias  is  obtainable  -  and,  as  we  have  seen  in  Figure  103,  such  a  point 
is  6db  above  the  normal  working  point.  So,  if  we  move  down  the 
recorder  curve  to  the  left  of  point  'A'  by  a  distance  equal  to  6db, 
we  shall  arrive  at  the  maximum  density  and  exposure  we  can  permit 
at  the  unbiased  working  exposure  of  the  valve. 

We  have  now  answered  all  three  questions  set  at  the  beginning 
of  this  discussion  and  are  in  a  position  to  forecast  the  shape  of 
the  final  over-all  characteristic  curve  for  the  entire  system,  as  it 
would  be  obtained  by  normal  sensitometric  control.  However,  we 
must  first  list  the  following  factors  which  will  control  this  forecast :- 

(1)  We  shall  start  off  with  a  2b  sensitometric  control  strip  on 
the  negative  film. 

(2)  We  know  this  must  now  be  modified  by  the  recorder 
characteristic. 

(3)  When  this  negative  is  printed  the  printing  machine  will 
have  a  gamma  or  contrast  factor  of  its  own  and  must  be 
allowed  for. 

(4)  The  positive  film  itself  will  be  developed  to  a  certain  2b 
sensitometric  control  gamma. 

(5)  The  film  when  projected  will  be  modified  by  the  projection 
factor. 

The  system  of  sensitometric  control  is  therefore  most  easily 
visualised  by  examining  a  specific  set  of  conditions.  Such  an 
example  is  given  in  Figure  105.  In  the  lower  right-hand  quadrant 
'A'  is  shown  the  starting  point  -  the  2b  sensitometric  curve  after 
it  has  been  modified  by  the  recorder  characteristic.  In  the  lower 
left  hand  quadrant  'B'  is  plotted  the  characteristics  of  the  printing 
machine  -  thereby  indicating  the  change  in  contrast  due  to  the 
optics  of  the  printer  -  this  usually  produces  a  'printer  gamma'  of 
the  order  of  0-90-0-95.  In  the  upper  left-hand  quadrant  'C  is 
the  2b  characteristic  curve  of  the  positive  film  onto  which  the  sound 
record  was  printed.  The  measurements  of  density  in  this  quadrant 
are  increased  by  the  factor  1  •  25  to  allow  for  the  projector  optical 
system.  The  curve  in  the  right-hand  upper  quadrant  *D'  is  only 
produced  by  tracing  out  a  series  of  reference  points  through  curves 
A,  B  and  C  as  suggested  by  the  'arrowed'  line  in  the  figure  and, 
where  they  intersect  in  'D',  plotting  the  over-all  characteristic 
curve  for  the  entire  system. 

This  final  curve  'D'  is  of  positive  film  densities  multiplied  by 

16 


242 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  105. — Typical  method  of  sensitometric  analysis. 

1*25  (the  projection  factor),  plotted  against  log-exposure  of  the 
negative.  Jf  we  now  convert  these  readings  into  positive  trans- 
missions plotted  against  initial  valve  openings  it  is  possible  to 
forecast  the  degree  of  distortion  likely  to  be  introduced  by  the 
photography  of  the  sound  recording  media.  An  actual  example  of 
this  is  shown  in  Figure  106  and,  to  give  an  indication  of  the 


Fig.  106.     Practical  overall  conditions  for  density  recording. 


SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING  243 

conditions  which  produced  this  curve,  the  relevant  data  of  the 
film  and  processing  is  given  below:  - 

Type  of  recording:  Western  Electric  200- mil  push- 
pull. 

Negative  Film:  Kodak  type  1301. 

Negative  control  2b  gamma  0-85 

Recorder  factor  0  •  70 

Printer  Gamma  0-92 

Positive  Film  Kodak  type  1302. 

Positive  Control  Gamma  2-20 

Positive  working  Gamma  1  •  70 

Negative  Unbiased  Density  0-55 

Positive  Unbiased  Density  0-58 

Projection  Factor  1*25. 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  actual  curve  is  in  very  close  agreement 
with  the  ideal  condition  down  to  a  valve  closure  of  -  8db  and  up 
to  an  opening  of  -f6db. 

This  very  short  resume  of  sensitometric  control  has  only  hinted 
at  the  complicated  nature  of  the  problem  and  its  solution  -  a 
whole  book  could  be  devoted  to  this  subject  -  but  we  have  delved 
sufficiently  deeply  to  realise  the  great  importance  of  this  work. 
It  should  be  realised  that,  once  the  conditions  of  processing  are 
known,  all  the  factors  mentioned  above  may  be  checked  each  day 
during  the  production  of  a  film  from  negative  and  positive  2b 
sensitometric  strips  and  negative  and  positive  normal  and  biased 
test  densities  made  on  the  end  of  each  roll  of  film.  The  various 
factors  by  which  the  2b  strips  must  be  modified,  for  example,  the 
recorder  gamma,  the  printer  factor,  the  projection  factor,  etc., 
are  constants  and,  once  determined,  may  be  applied  from  day  to 
day. 

Shortcomings  of densitometry  when  applied  to  Sound  Film  Processing 
Although  the  foregoing  outline  of  the  general  sensitometric  control 
system  demonstrates  that  good  average  results  will  be  obtained  by 
all  laboratories  -  whether  they  are  called  upon  to  process  variable 
area  or  variable  density  tracks  -  it  has  been  found  in  recent  years 
that  the  classical  methods  of  sensitometry  do  not  necessarily 
produce  the  optimum  results  from  the  sound  recording  and  repro- 
ducing equipment.  This  statement  must  not  be  taken  to  imply  that 
any  errors  exist  in  the  theory  and  practice  of  sensitometry,  but 
rather  that  factors  exist  when  photographing  sound  waves  for 
which  provision  has  not  been  made  in  this  control  process. 


244  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

The  area  covered  by  one  step  on  the  2b  sensitometric  strip  is 
exceptionally  large  when  compared  with  the  area  covered  by  one 
complete  sound  wave,  even  at  the  lowest  usable  frequencies. 
This  is  quite  in  order  when  dealing  with  picture  processing  since 
the  smallest  area  over  which  the  density  must  be  accurately 
controlled,  in  order  to  reproduce  good  tone  rendering  in  the  pro- 
jected picture,  is  also  very  large  when  compared  with  the  area 
occupied  by  one  cycle  in  the  sound  track.  It  is  therefore  not  sur- 
prising that  factors  exist  which  escape  detection  in  general  sensito- 
metric control  and  which  are  of  sufficient  magnitude  to  reduce  the 
efficiency  of  the  photographic  sound  recording  systems. 

One  factor,  which  can  only  be  detected  when  examining  very 
small  areas  of  film,  concerns  the  reflecting  properties  of  the  film 
base.  Let  it  be  assumed  that  a  variable  density  track  is  being 
recorded  and  that  we  can  isolate  one  horizontal  bar  of  light, 
corresponding  to  the  instantaneous  aperture  of  the  light  valve.  If 
the  intensity  of  the  beam  passing  through  this  valve  to  the  film  is 
relatively  high  the  light  will  penetrate  through  the  emulsion  and 
hit  the  rear  surface  of  the  film  base.  Part  of  this  light  will  then  be 
reflected,  travel  back  through  the  film  base  and  again  hit  the 
emulsion.  Unfortunately,  three  alternatives  may  now  take  place. 
Firstly,  the  majority  of  the  reflected  light  may  return  through  the 
film  base  at  an  angle  to  the  incident  ray  and  therefore  produce  two 
new  exposed  lines,  one  on  each  side  of  the  main  exposure.  Secondly, 
the  reflected  light  may  not  return  as  sharply  defined  lines  but 
as  a  diffused  pencil  of  light  and  thus  cause  a  blurred  halo  to  be 
formed  around  the  main  exposure  -  rather  like  the  penumbra 
shadow  caused  when  illuminating  an  object  by  a  very  large  light 
source.  Thirdly,  some  of  the  reflected  light  may  travel  back 
through  the  film  base  and  reinforce  the  original  exposure.  This 
last  possibility  will  only  occur  when  sufficient  light  is  passed  by 
the  light  valve  to  penetrate  through  the  emulsion  in  the  first 
instance  -  such  an  effect  will  only  occur  when  frequencies  of  high 
amplitude  are  recorded  -  and  these  will  be  excessively  dark  when 
compared  with  the  densities  produced  at  low  amplitudes.  In  other 
words,  the  recording  will  be  distorted  as  the  amplitude  increases. 

Another  factor,  which  is  more  applicable  to  the  variable  area 
system  of  sound  recording,  concerns  the  spreading  of  the  image 
and  consequent  '  filling-in'  of  the  high  frequencies.  This  image 
spread  is  very  minute  when  compared  with  the  area  of  a  step  on  the 
2b  sensitometric  strip,  but  may  be  comparable  in  size  to  the  area 
occupied  by  a  10,000  cycle  wave  form.  It  is  therefore  possible  for 
high  frequency  loss  to  occur  in  both  variable  area  and  variable 


SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING  245 

density  recordings  even  when  the  entire  process  is  maintained 
at  the  levels  indicated  by  normal  sensitometric  control. 

Some  new  system  of  measurement  had  clearly  to  be  devised 
whereby  these  small  errors  could  first  be  detected  and  then 
eliminated.  In  both  recording  systems  this  requirement  has  been 
met  by  electrical  analysing  processes.  Very  briefly  these  processes 
consist  of  first  arranging  to  record  two  pure  frequencies,  one 
relatively  low  and  the  other  relatively  high.  The  high  frequency 
may  be  termed  the  'carrier  wave',  and  this  is  modulated  by  the 
low  frequency  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  by  which  radio  waves 
are  transmitted  through  the  ether.  By  using  a  suitable  wave-form 
analysing  equipment  it  is  possible  to  measure  the  percentage  of 
each  frequency  which  is  present  in  the  final  reproduction  and, 
fortunately,  it  is  possible  so  to  arrange  the  systems  that  the 
response  will  only  be  at  a  minimum  when  the  optimum  processing 
conditions  exist  and  the  small  errors,  not  previously  detected  by 
normal  sensitometry,  have  been  eliminated. 

The  wave-form  analysing  system  applied  to  the  variable  density 
sound  recording  process  is  known  as  Tntermodulation'  and  that 
applied  to  the  variable  area  process  is  known  as  'Cross  Modulat- 
ion'. Since  it  is  more  convenient  to  discuss  wave  forms  which  are 
recorded  in  their  convential  shapes,  we  will  first  consider  the  cross 
modulation  method  applied  to  maintain  optimum  processing  con- 
ditions when  dealing  with  variable  area  sound  tracks. 

Cross  Modulation 

Let  us  first  consider  the  growth  or  contraction  which  has  been 
found  to  take  place  when  the  sound  track  is  over  or  under- 
developed. The  pure  undistorted  wave  form  which  should  theoret- 
ically be  produced  under  perfect  processing  conditions  is  shown 
at  'A',  Figure  107.  If  the  film  is  over-developed  the  troughs  of 
the  waves,  shown  at  'X',  will  be  filled  in  due  to  excessive  image 
growth  or  spread  and  the  processed  track  will  appear  as  seen 
at  'B'.  If  the  film  is  under-developed  the  peaks  of  the  waves, 
shown  at  'Y',  will  contract  and  the  processed  film  will  appear  as 
seen  at  'C\ 

Since  the  wave  form  shown  at  'A'  is  perfectly  symmetrical  it  is 
possible  to  measure  the  amount  of  light  passing  through  a  very 
thin  slit  at  'D',  and  to  add  to  that  quantity  a  similar  measurement 
made  at  'E'.  By  dividing  this  total  by  two  we  arrive  at  the  average 
amount  of  light  which  will  be  transmitted  and  this  is  represented 
in  the  diagram  by  the  height  'F'.  It  will  be  seen  that  point  'H'  will 
be  mid-way  between  the  trough  and  the  peak  of  the  wave  form,  as 


246 


PRINCIPLES   OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  107.— Image  distortion  due  to  processing. 

indicated  by  dimension  'G\  If  similar  measurements  are  made  on 
the  wave  forms  which  were  over  and  under  developed  and,  in  each 
case,  the  average  transmission  is  again  represented  by  the  line  *F\ 
the  transmissions  will  be  modified  as  shown  in  Figure  108. 
In  this  figure  the  perfect  condition  is  once  more  shown  at  *A\ 


~^^. 


Fig.  108. — Effect  of  image  distortion  on  average  transmission. 


SOUND   FILM   PROCESSING  247 

and  the  average  transmission  is  represented  by  dimension  'F^, 
When  the  film  is  over-developed  and  the  troughs  of  the  waves  are 
consequently  filled  in  as  shown  at  *B\  the  average  transmission  is 
decreased  as  shown  at  'F2\  When  the  film  is  under-developed,  and 
the  peaks  of  the  waves  contract,  the  average  transmission  is  con- 
sequently increased  as  shown  at  'F3\  The  block  diagrams  below  the 
wave  forms  indicate  the  average  transmission  for  a  correctly 
developed  film  at  'D',  an  over-developed  film  at  'E'  and  an  under- 
developed film  at  'F\ 

Of  course,  when  over  or  under-development  occurs,  both  the 
peaks  and  the  troughs  of  the  wave  form  are  affected  simultaneously. 
This  is  more  clearly  seen  in  Figure  109  where  'A'  indicates  the 
perfect  condition,  'B'  the  condition  of  over-development  and  'C 
that  of  under-development.  This  image  growth  or  contraction  may, 
of  course,  be  caused  by  incorrect  exposure  just  as  much  as  by 
faulty  processing  and  the  cross  modulation  methods  must  be  cap- 
able of  indicating  both  the  correct  exposure  and  the  correct 
developing  time. 

When  the  recording  head  is  fed  with  a  selected  pure  wave  form, 
such  that  a  high  frequency  wave  is  modulated  by  a  low  frequency, 
the  resultant  photographic  image  will  be  as  shown  in  Figure  110. 
The  electrical  circuits  of  the  signal  generators  and  modulating 
equipment,  necessary  to  produce  such  a  wave  form,  are  of  no 
importance  to  those  who  are  only  concerned  with  the  photographic 
applications  of  this  equipment. 

If  the  modulated  wave  form,  as  shown  in  the  centre  of  Figure 
107,  is  perfectly  exposed  and  developed  the  400-cycle,  or  low 
frequency  response,  will  not  cause  any  change  in  the  average 
transmission  between  the  peaks  and  troughs  of  this  frequency 
when  the  print  is  reproduced.  This  condition  is  more  clearly  seen 
in  Figure  1 1 1  in  which  two  isolated  points  on  the  track  are  con- 
sidered in  detail.  To  simplify  the  condition  only  one  half  of  the 
track  has  been  shown  but,  obviously,  a  complementary  section, 
equal  to  this  in  all  respects,  exists  below  the  portion  shown  in  the 
figure.  Any  conclusions  drawn  from  this  figure  will  therefore  apply 
equally  well  when  the  whole  width  of  the  track  is  scanned  in  the 
reproducer. 

Let  us  now  assume  that  the  width  of  the  scanning  slit  is  equal 
to  length  'A-B\  The  amount  of  light  which  will  pass  to  the  photo- 
cell will  be  made  up  of  two  portions,  firstly  that  represented  by  the 
rectangle  'A.B.C.D.'  and,  secondly,  that  represented  by  the 
triangle  'C.D.E.\  For  the  sake  of  illustration  units  have  been  given 
to  each  dimension  so  that  these  areas  may  be  calculated.  The  area 


248 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


IMAGE 
/^GROWTH 


PERFECT 
/  WAVE  FORM 


PERFECT 
WAVE  FORM 


IMAGE 
CONTRACTION 


B 


Fig.  109. — Distortion  effecting  both  peaks  and  troughs  of  wave  form. 


19000  CYCLE    HIGH  frequency! 

r_ 


I  HIGH   FREQUENCY    MODULATED  BY    LOW    FREQUENCYl 

Fig.  110. — High  and  low  frequency  pure  tones  combined. 


BOUNDARY    OF    SCANNED    AREA 


A|  2 


Bf 
4 
C    \] 


iW    2    G 


12 


Fig.  111. — Cross-modulation  signals  in  detail. 


SOUND   FILM  PROCESSING  249 

of  the  rectangle  is  therefore  equal  to  AB  x  BC,  or  8  square  units, 
and  that  of  the  triangle  is  equal  to  CD  multiplied  by  12  (the  height 
of  the  triangle)  and  divided  by  2 -that  is,  12  square  units.  The 
total  area  of  transmission  is  therefore  represented  by  20  square 
units. 

If  there  is  to  be  no  change  in  average  transmission,  due  to  the 
low  frequency  wave  form,  the  light  transmitted  through  the  right- 
hand  diagram  in  the  figure  must  also  be  represented  by  20  square 
units.  The  area  of  rectangle  'F.G.H.J.'  is  equal  to  FG  x  GH,  or 
2x8,  and  is  therefore  16  square  units.  The  area  of  triangle  'H.J.K.' 
is  equal  to  HJ  multiplied  by  half  the  height  of  the  triangle  and  is, 
therefore,  4  square  units.  The  total  average  transmission  is  there- 
fore represented  by  16  plus  4,  or  20  square  units  and  is,  therefore, 
equal  to  that  transmitted  through  the  left  hand  diagram. 

Suitable  electrical  analysing  equipment  is  available  which  will 
differentiate  between  the  response  due  to  the  high  frequency  and 
that  due  to  the  low  frequency.  It  is  therefore  possible  to  measure 
the  change  in  average  transmission  and,  as  has  just  been  shown,  no 
such  change  will  take  place  in  the  ideal  case. 

Now  consider  the  condition  which  would  exist  if  the  film  were 
over-exposed  and /or  over-developed.  As  was  previously  seen  from 
Figure  109,  the  image  of  the  wave  form  will  spread  and  the  clear 
triangular  section  will  therefore  be  reduced  in  size.  This  condition 
is  shown  in  Figure  112,  where  the  two  extreme  cases  at  the  peak 
and  trough  of  the  low  frequency  modulation  have  been  brought 
close  together  to  afford  a  direct  comparison.  The  diagram  on  the 
left  of  the  figure  indicates  the  size  of  the  triangle  when  the  film  is 
perfectly  exposed  and  processed,  while  that  on  the  right  indicates 
the  condition  of  over-exposure  or  development.  It  has  already  been 
established  that  the  total  amount  of  light  passing  through  the  two 
left  hand  areas  is  equal,  and  may  be  represented  by  20  square 
units.  When  the  image  grows  the  apex  of  the  triangular  sections  will 
be  brought  near  to  their  respective  bases,  as  shown  at  'P'  and  'U\ 

In  this  simple  example  the  growth  has  been  assumed  to  fore- 
shorten the  triangles  by  one-quarter  of  their  original  height  in 
each  case.  In  practice  the  peak  of  the  wave  form  also  grows  to 
some  extent  and  the  angles  within  the  triangle  are  slightly  altered. 
Ali  these  considerations  are  relatively  small  when  compared  with 
the  growth  at  the  trough  of  the  wave,  that  is  at  'P'  and  'U\  and 
may  be  ignored  for  the  present.  The  amount  of  light  transmitted 
in  one  case  will  therefore  be  represented  by  the  area  of  the  rectangle 
'L;M.N.O.\  plus  the  area  of  the  triangle  'N.O.P.',  This  is  shown 
to  be  a  total  of  19  units.  In  the  second  case  the  transmission  is 


250 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


PERFECT   EXPOSURE 
AND  PROCESSING 

OVER    EXPOSURE 
AND/OR  PROCESSING 

*-2*l              h-2-* 

H-2-H         |*2-H 

A        B 

t 

4 

I 

f     c 

i  \ 

I         M 

t 

4 

1 

Q       R 

C       D 

8 

T        S 

, 

i 

H         J 

" 

O       N 

T 

t 

119 

AREA- 
UNITS 


TOTAL    AREA  = 
20  SO  UNITS 


Fig.  112. — Diagramatic  analysis  of  cross-modulation. 

represented  by  the  area  of  rectangle  'Q.R.S.T.',  plus  triangle 
'S.T.U.*,  and  this  is  shown  to  be  a  total  of  17  units. 

When  a  perfect  film  is  passed  through  the  analysing  equipment 
the  average  transmission  will  not  be  affected  in  any  way  since, 
as  shown  to  the  left  of  the  figure,  the  total  amount  of  light  trans- 
mitted between  the  high  frequency  wave  peaks  will  always  remain 
constant.  However,  when  a  defective  film,  such  as  that  shown  on 
the  right  of  the  figure,  is  passed  through  the  analyser  the  average 
transmission  will  show  a  variation  at  a  frequency  equal  to  that  of 
the  low  frequency  modulation.  This  is  clearly  seen  from  the  fact 
that,  in  one  case  the  amount  of  light  passing  between  the  high 
frequency  wave  peaks  will  be  represented  by  19  units  whilst,  in 
the  second  case,  this  will  have  dropped  to  17  units. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  the  foregoing  analysis  has  only 
taken  into  consideration  one  half  of  the  sound  track  but  it  will  be 
obvious  that  an  identical  condition  will  exist  in  both  halves.  It 
should  also  be  apparent  that  this  low  frequency  modulation  will  be 
detected  when  the  wave  form  contracts,  due  to  under-exposure  or 
under-development.  The  method  employed  to  analyse  the  resultant 
sound  track  is  to  measure  the  output  in  decibel  units,  due  entirely 
to  low  frequency  modulation,  and  to  compare  this  with  the  output 
in  decibel  units  due  entirely  to  high  frequency  modulation.  Opti- 
mum processing  conditions  will  therefore  exist  when  the  high 
frequency  output  is  at  a  maximum  and  the  low  frequency  output 
is  at  a  minimum. 


SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING 


251 


However,  it  is  now  obviously  necessary  to  provide  some 
means  whereby  any  response  from  the  low  frequency  meter  may 
be  recognised  as  an  error  in  exposure  or  as  an  error  in  develop- 
ment. This  investigation  can  only  be  made  in  the  following  manner. 
Firstly,  a  series  of  negatives  are  recorded,  each  having  a  high 
frequency  oscillation  modulated  by  a  low  frequency,  and  each 
negative  is  exposed  to  a  different  value  of  recorder  lamp  current. 
These  negatives  are  then  processed  in  the  normal  manner  as  laid 
down  by  sensitometric  control.  Each  negative  is  then  printed 
several  times,  each  print  being  made  at  a  different  exposure  setting. 
These  prints  are  then  processed  in  the  normal  manner.  Each  print 
is  then  analysed  in  the  electrical  filtering  circuit  and  the  relative 
outputs  from  the  high  and  low  frequencies  are  recorded.  These 
recordings  are  then  plotted  in  graph  form  and  produce  a  series  of 
curves  as  shown  in  Figure  113. 

Any  one  of  these  curves  is  produced  by  plotting  the  low  frequency 
output  against  the  negative  density  and  whilst  the  positive  density 
is  maintained  constant.  That  is  to  say,  since  there  are  eleven  negative 
densities  shown  along  the  base  of  the  graph,  each  of  these  negatives 
is  first  printed  to  a  positive  so  that  the  positives  are  all  maintained 
at  a  density  of  1  •  0.  The  eleven  positive  copies  so  produced  are  then 
measured  to  ascertain  the  degree  of  low  frequency  response  present 
and,  of  course,  eleven  readings  are  obtained  from  the  analysing 
equipment.  These  readings  are  then  plotted  against  the  eleven 
negative  densities.  This  entire  process  is  then  repeated  six  times, 
on  each  occasion  raising  the  positive  density  by  0  •  1 .  Thus  the  seven 
curves  shown  in  Figure  1 1 3  are  produced. 

It  will  be  realised  that  the  optimum  condition  is  that  at  which  the 
low  frequency  output  is  at  a  minimum,  since  this  condition 
indicates  that  the  wave  forms  are  as  nearly  as  possible  free  from 


Fig.  113.— A  family  of  cross-modulation  curves. 


252  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

image  spread  or  contraction.  From  the  figure  it  is  seen  that,  in  this 
example  the  lowest  response,  that  of  minus  50  decibels,  is  pro- 
duced when  a  negative  having  a  density  of  1  -9  is  printed  so  that  a 
positive  having  a  density  of  1  -4  is  produced.  Although  the  process 
necessary  to  produce  this  result  is  somewhat  lengthy,  it  need 
only  be  carried  out  to  establish  these  optimum  conditions  at  the 
outset  when  new  recording  equipment  and  processing  techniques 
are  installed.  Once  these  densities  have  been  established  the  normal 
sensitometric  methods  may  be  used  to  maintain  the  laboratory 
at  these  conditions. 

It  is  interesting  to  compare  the  densities  recommended  by 
the  classical  sensitometric  methods  with  those  just  given.  The 
sensitometric  negative  density  normally  recommended  is  2-10, 
whereas  that  indicated  by  cross  modulation  in  this  example  is  1  -90. 
Referring  to  Figure  113,  and  assuming  that  the  print  will  be  made 
to  a  density  of  1-4,  the  sensitometric  recommendation  would 
result  in  a  low  frequency  modulation  15  decibels  greater  than  that 
produced  by  the  negative  density  recommended  by  the  cross 
modulation  method.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  positive  print 
density  is  increased  to  1  •  5  when  using  the  sensitometric  recom- 
mendations, this  difference  falls  to  5  decibels.  However,  it  must  be 
remembered  that  it  has  only  been  possible  to  observe  this  degree 
of  correction,  which  can  be  obtained  by  changing  the  positive 
density,  after  the  cross  modulation  tests  have  been  made  and  the 
curves  in  Figure  113  have  been  plotted. 

It  may  at  first  be  thought  that  the  advantages  gained  by  this 
process  do  not  warrant  the  initial  work  which  is  involved.  This 
is  certainly  not  true,  particularly  since  the  best  curve  in  Figure  113 
has  been  found  to  be  relatively  steep.  Providing  that  the  positive 
density  is  maintained  at  1-4,  the  negative  density  may  vary 
between  1-8  and  2-0  without  any  serious  disadvantage  but, 
immediately  the  negative  density  goes  beyond  these  limits,  the 
high  frequency  wave  forms  become  considerably  distorted  owing 
to  image  spread  or  contraction.  This  point  is  shown  by  the  rapidity 
with  which  the  low  frequency  output  increases  on  each  side  of  the 
trough  of  the  1-4  positive  density  curve  in  the  figure. 

The  application  of  Cross-Modulation  analysis  to  practical  work 
has  resulted  in  the  recognition  of  the  term  'cancellation  density'. 
This  refers  to  the  practice  of  intentionally  slightly  over-exposing  the 
negative  and  then  slightly  under-exposing  the  positive  print  which, 
it  has  been  found,  will  result  in  a  considerable  improvement  in  image 
sharpness  without  materially  affecting  the  optimum  overall 
condition. 


SOUND   FILM  PROCESSING 


253 


It  may  not  be  out  of  place  at  this  point  also  to  mention  the 
great  need  in  practical  applications  of  these  methods  to  keep  the 
'fog'  level  to  a  minimum.  Unless  this  is  achieved  the  volume  out- 
put will  be  greatly  reduced. 


©  © 

Fig.  1 14. — Variable  density  intermodulation  analysis. 

Intermodulation 

Intermodulation  is  the  name  given  to  a  method  whereby  the  overall 
quality  of  variable  density  sound  tracks  may  be  maintained  at  a 
very  high  level.  This  method  is  very  similar  in  general  principles 
to  the  cross-modulation  system  used  with  variable  area  tracks  as 
described  previously.  Both  methods  employ  electrical  signal 
generators  and  waveform  analysers  to  produce  an  electrical 
measurement  of  a  photographic  condition.  However,  great  differ- 
ences exist  between  the  types  of  error  which  each  system  is  designed 
to  correct.  These  differences  are  due  to  the  essential  photographic 
differences  between  the  two  recording  systems. 

The  degree  of  distortion  in  variable  density  systems  is  again 
seen  by  modulating  the  original  high-amplitude  low-frequency 
wave  with  a  low-amplitude  high-frequency  wave.  The  actual  shape 
of  such  a  wave  is  shown  in  Figure  114.  The  original  high  frequency 
wave  of  low  amplitude  is  seen  at  'A',  and  the  original  low  frequency 


254  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

wave  of  high  amplitude  is  at  'B\  When  the  high  frequency  is 
modulated  by  the  low  frequency  the  waveform  shown  at  'C  is 
produced.  Such  a  signal  causes  the  ribbons  of  the  light  valve  to 
make  a  double  response,  that  is  to  say,  they  open  and  close  over  a 
wide  range  very  slowly  and,  superimposed  upon  this  action,  is  a 
series  of  smaller  changes  in  aperture  occurring  at  high  velocity. 

Now  assume  that  curve  'D'  represents  the  overall  characteristics 
of  the  negative  film  exposure  plotted  against  the  final  print  trans- 
mission for  the  system  in  use,  and  that  curve,  'C  is  applied  to  this 
system.  Those  fluctuations  which  occur  at  points  'E'  and  'F  will 
be  applied  at  points  'G'  and  'H'  respectively  on  the  curve  'D'  and, 
since  points  'G'  and  *H'  are  not  on  the  straight  line  portion  of  this 
curve,  will  consequently  be  distorted.  The  resultant  curve,  repre- 
senting the  fluctuations  in  the  print  transmission,  is  seen  at  'J'  and 
the  amplitude  of  section  'K'  is  seen  to  be  distorted  when  compared 
with  the  corresponding  original  section  at  'F'.  If  the  low  frequency 
component  in  curve  'J'  is  now  removed  from  the  output  signal, 
the  resultant  high  frequency  component  is  seen  to  take  the  form 
shown  in  curve  'L\ 

The  most  successful  processing  conditions  may  now  be  ascer- 
tained in  the  following  manner:  -  Firstly,  to  ensure  that  the  light 
valve  will  not  be  overloaded  by  the  high  amplitude  of  the  low 
frequency  wave,  the  overload  point  is  established  and  the  input 
to  the  system  is  then  selected  so  that  the  maximum  load  will  be 
2  decibels  below  this  point.  It  is  then  usual  practice  to  apply  a 
signal  of  2,000-cycles,  modulated  by  one  of  60-cycles,  and  to  make 
several  recordings  over  a  range  of  lamp  current  or  exposure  values. 

These  negatives  are  then  developed  in  the  normal  manner  as 
established  by  sensitometry  so  that,  after  printing,  the  overall 
gamma  will  be  unity.  Each  negative  is  then  printed  over  a  range 
of  printer  exposure  values  and,  once  more,  the  positive  development 
is  that  which  is  normally  given.  The  final  prints  are  then  measured 
on  the  intermodulation  analysing  equipment  to  establish  the 
percentage  intermodulation  present  in  the  high  frequency  com- 
ponent of  the  input  signals.  A  series  of  such  measurements  are 
shown  in  Figure  115,  where  each  curve  represents  a  constant 
negative  density  and  is  obtained  by  plotting  the  series  of  print 
densities  made  with  that  negative  against  the  percentage  inter- 
modulation obtained  in  each  case. 

In  this  example  it  is  seen  that  the  optimum  processing  conditions 
are  obtained  when  the  negative  is  developed  to  a  density  of  0*40 
and  the  positive  to  a  density  of  0-60,  assuming  that  both  are  pro- 
cessed to  gamma  values  as  recommended  by  standard  sensitometric 


SOUND   FILM   PROCESSING 


255 


control.  Naturally,  from  this  point,  it  is  then  necessary  to  hold  these 
densities  fixed  whilst  the  gamma  values  are  varied  in  subsequent 
experiments  and  thereby  to  completely  cover  the  whole  range  of 
possible  combinations  for  each  variable  in  the  system. 


\ 

0 

\s  \^    X 

-. 

3     \ 

6 

/I  SUM. 

PRINT   0 

NS1TY 

0 

5 

C 

6 

O 

7 

OS 

09 

Fig.  1 1 5. — A  family  of  intermodulation  curves. 


It  will  also  be  seen  from  the  figure  that  the  negative  density  may 
rise  to  0-50  and  the  positive  density  may  vary  between  0*55  and 
0-65  before  any  great  change  in  the  distortion  takes  place.  This 
observation  may  be  used  to  criticise  the  need  for  such  an  accurate 
control  system  but,  as  was  found  with  the  cross-modulation 
system,  these  limits  are  only  discovered  after  the  test  has  been 
made  and,  once  established,  may  be  maintained  by  normal  sensito- 
metric  control. 

The  negative  and  positive  densities  and  gamma  values  given 
throughout  this  chapter  are  only  isolated  examples  of  results 
obtained  with  particular  equipment  and,  therefore,  should  not 
be  assumed  to  apply  in  every  case.  The  processing  equipment, 
its  operation,  the  particular  characteristics  of  each  recording 
machine  and  the  type  of  film  employed  for  this  work  make  it 
necessary  for  each  studio  to  carry  out  tests  in  close  co-operation 
with  the  laboratory  which  will  ultimately  be  called  upon  to  process 
recordings  made  at  that  studio. 


CHAPTER  9 

SOUND    REPRODUCTION 


Although  the  master  patent  granted  to  Eugene  Lauste  in  1907 
covered  the  basic  principles  of  both  modern  sound  film  recording 
and  reproduction,  progress  in  this  field  was  very  slow  and,  as  has 
been  seen  previously,  the  first  commercially  successful  talking 
pictures  were  made  by  recording  the  sounds  on  discs  16-inches 
(40-6-cms)  in  diameter.  To  obtain  an  adequate  playing  time  these 
discs  rotated  at  33  1  /3rd  revolutions  per  minute  and,  by  starting 
the  recording  at  the  centre  of  the  disc,  relatively  simple  means 
could  be  employed  to  maintain  synchronism  between  the  disc  and 
the  picture  film.  Sounds  were  reproduced  from  these  discs  through 
an  electrical  pick-up,  amplifier  and  speaker  system  in  a  manner 
similar  to  that  used  in  present  day  radio-gramophones. 

Because  of  this  similarity  between  the  disc  reproduction  system 
and  the  modern  record  playing  section  of  a  radio-gram,  these 
early  methods  need  not  be  considered  in  any  great  detail.  However, 
it  should  be  remembered  that  much  ground  work  was  covered 
by  the  pioneer  inventions  which  produced  the  first  talking  pictures 
and  without  which  modern  sound  films  would  not  have  been 
possible. 

Film  Reproduction 

The  general  layout  of  modern  sound  film  reproduction  is  seen 
from  the  schematic  diagram  in  Figure  116.  It  should  be  noted  that 
two  identical  sets  of  equipment  exist,  one  in  each  of  the  two  pro- 
jectors necessary  to  maintain  a  continuous  performance.  By  follow- 
ing the  block  diagrams  in  the  direction  of  the  arrows  it  is  seen 
that  the  chain  of  reproduction  commences  with  the  'Exciter  Lamp'. 
This  lamp  is  used  to  illuminate  a  very  narrow  band  across  the 
area  of  film  which  is  covered  by  the  sound  track  and  must,  of 
course,  be  maintained  at  a  constant  brightness  level.  By  passing 
through  the  varying  photographic  sound  track  this  constant  light 

256 


SOUND   REPRODUCTION 


257 


beam  is  modulated  in  proportion  to  the  nature  of  the  recording  on 
the  track.  The  track  is  caused  to  move  past  the  beam  from  the 
exciter  lamp  at  a  constant  speed  and  by  one  of  a  number  of 
systems  employing  rollers,  fluid  flywheels  and  other  devices 
whereby  the  film  may  be  isolated  from  any  variations  in  speed 
which  may  be  set  up  by  other  parts  of  the  projector  mechanism 
and,  particularly,  from  the  intermittent  forward  movement  created 
by  the  picture  moving  device. 

After  passing  through  the  film  at  this  point  the  now  varying 
light  beam  is  focused  by  an  optical  unit  onto  the  'Photo-Cell'. 
The  'Sound  Optics'  is  so  designed  that  it  is  capable  of  isolating 
one  cycle  of  the  highest  frequency  which  will  be  recorded  on  the 
film  and  will,  therefore,  be  able  to  present  to  the  photo-cell  a 
light  varying  in  intensity  and  frequency  in  exact  relationship  to 
the  variations  in  the  photographic  sound  record.  The  photo-cell 
is  an  instrument  which  is  capable  of  causing  an  electrical  response  in 
true  proportion  to  the  amount  of  light  which  strikes  its  surface 
and,  by  this  instrument,  the  variations  in  the  light  beam,  caused  by 
variations  in  the  film  track,  are  converted  into  electrical  energy. 
Since  these  electrical  variations  are  initially  very  small  they  must  be 
fed  to  a  'Pre- Amplifier'.  This  unit  is  usually  situated  within  the 
projector  sound  head  and  is  used  to  strengthen  the  small  signals 
to  such  a  degree  that  they  may  be  fed  by  cables  to  the  'Main 
Amplifier'  (this  unit  may  be  some  distance  from  the  projector) 
without  any  dangerous  loss  in  signal  strength.  Before  passing  to 
the  main  amplifiers  the  signal  strength  may  be  adjusted  by  a 
'Volume  Control'  to  ensure  that  the  output  from  both  projectors 


\tia2  PROJECTORS 

Fig.  116. — Block  schematic  of  sound  reproduction. 


258 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  117. — The  "rear  scanning"  method  of  sound  reproduction. 


will  be  balanced  and  sufficient  to  adequately  fill  the  auditorium. 
The  volume  control  also  provides  a  means  for  adjusting  the 
response  from  sound  tracks  of  different  amplitude  and  thereby  to 
ensure  that  all  reels  of  sound  may  be  reproduced  to  a  matched 
volume  level.  The  output  from  the  main  amplifiers  is  fed  to  the 
speakers  at  the  rear  of  the  screen  and  also  to  a  'Monitor'  or  pilot 
speaker,  housed  within  the  projection  box. 

Having  very  briefly  outlined  the  complete  system  of  sound 
film  reproduction  it  is  now  convenient  to  consider  one  of  the 
many  sound  heads  in  more  detail.  Figure  117  shows  the  general 
layout  of  the  system  known  as  'Rear  Scanning'.  This  name  is 
given  to  all  sound  heads  in  which  the  film  is  placed  between  the 
exciter  lamp  and  the  scanning  slit;  when  the  positions  of  the  film 
and  the  slit  are  reversed  the  system  is  known  as  'Front  Scanning'. 

The  light  source  used  in  these  sound  heads  is  usually  a  very 
heavy  duty  straight  filament  lamp,  sometimes  of  the  ribbon  or 
solid  metal  strip  variety.  These  lamps  must  be  connected  to  a 
source  of  direct  current,  a  typical  supply  being  one  of  12  Volts  and 
capable  of  delivering  a  current  of  4  Amperes.  Any  variation  in  the 
brightness  of  this  light  source  would,  of  course,  eventually  find  its 
way  to  the  photo-cell  and  cause  a  corresponding  variation  in  poten- 
tial across  that  cell.  If  the  light  source  should  fluctuate  at  a  frequency 
within  the  audible  range  this  would  result  in  a  hum  or  whistle  being 
reproduced  together  with  the  sounds  from  the  film  track.  Heavy 
filaments  are  used  because  they  retain  their  brilliance  for  some 
appreciable  time  after  the  potential  has  dropped  and  also  take 
considerable  time  to  respond  to  any  increase  in  potential.  This 
inertia  to  changes  in  potential  has  the  effect  of  damping  out  any 
slight  variations  which  might  occur  in  the  supply  system. 

An  alternative  method  used  by  one  manufacturer  is  to  include 
in  the  amplifier  a  frequency  generating  circuit  with  which  to  feed 
an  alternating  current  of  some  30,000  cycles  to  the  exciter  lamp. 
This  frequency,  being  above  the  audible  range,  does  not  reproduce 


SOUND  REPRODUCTION  259 

in  the  speaker  system  and  obviates  the  need  for  a  D.C.  supply  to 
the  exciter  lamp.  The  shape  of  the  filament  is  always  a  straight  line 
at  right  angles  to  the  elevation  shown  in  the  figure  and,  as  will  be 
seen  later,  some  systems  employ  this  Tine  Filament'  to  obtain  the 
scanning  slit.  Sound  volume  will  naturally  fall  when,  after  some 
considerable  use,  the  lamp  envelope  becomes  blackened.  Because 
of  this,  and  also  to  provide  an  immediate  replacement  in  the  event 
of  a  lamp  breaking  during  a  show,  most  manufacturers  now  fit 
some  form  of  double  holder  in  the  exciter  lamp  house,  one  side 
carrying  the  lamp  which  is  in  use  and  the  other  carrying  a  spare 
lamp  already  centred  up  with  the  optical  axis  of  the  sound  head. 
The  wiring  is  so  arranged  that  this  second  lamp  will  come  into 
operation  immediately  it  is  swung  into  position  -  the  action  of 
rotating  the  mount,  to  transpose  the  lamp  positions,  automatically 
transfers  the  electrical  supply  from  one  lamp  to  the  other. 

In  the  arrangement  shown,  light  from  the  filament  is  brought 
to  a  small  highly  intense  spot  on  the  film  surface  by  means  of  a 
condenser  lens.  An  image  of  the  sound  track  is  thrown  by  the 
objective  lens  onto  the  scanning  slit.  This  slit  is  of  such  dimensions 
that  it  will  isolate  one  cycle  of  the  highest  frequency  required  in 
the  reproduction,  and  is  situated  just  in  front  of  the  photo-cell. 

The  Position  and  Size  of  Scanning  Slits 

The  size  of  the  overall  or  effective  scanning  slit  may  be  easily 
obtained  from  two  factors.  Firstly  the  film  speed  and,  secondly, 
the  highest  frequency  which  is  required  to  be  reproduced.  The 
highest  recorded  frequency  is  usually  about  9,000  cycles  and, 
although  the  amplifiers  may  'Cut-Off'  below  this  frequency,  it  is 
necessary  to  resolve  a  9,000  cycle  note  at  the  scanning  head  since 
such  a  frequency  will  alter  the  timbre  or  quality  of  tone  in  those 
lower  frequencies  which  the  amplifier  will  reproduce.  The  distance 
occupied  by  one  cycle  of  a  9,000  cycle  frequency,  at  a  film  speed 
of  24  pictures  per  second  is  0-002-inch  (0-05-mm).  If  the  effective 
slit  width  is  too  great  the  high  frequency  response  is  lost  and  dis- 
tortion is  introduced  whereas,  if  the  slit  width  is  too  narrow,  the 
response  over  the  entire  range  is  lowered.  Apart  from  these  factors 
mechanical  considerations  place  a  limit  on  the  size  of  slit  which 
can  be  made  to  any  given  accuracy.  Curves  plotted  to  show  the 
frequency  response  with  slits  of  various  widths  indicates  that  the 
most  efficient  slit  is  one  0-0013-inch  (0-033-mm)  in  width. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  term  'Effective  Slit  Width'  has  been 
used.  This  has  been  done  to  draw  attention  to  the  fact  that 
large  mechanical  slits  may  be  optically  reduced  to  the  required 


260 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


FILAMENT      WIDTH 
-00130 


Fig.  118. — Methods  of  sound  track  scanning. 


dimensions  and,  therefore,  the  size  of  the  scanning  spot  need  not 
necessarily  indicate  the  actual  size  of  the  slit  aperture.  Figure  1 1 8 
shows  three  designs  which  employ  different  methods  to  obtain  the 
required  narrow  aperture.  In  design  'A'  it  is  assumed  that  the  width 
of  the  exciter  lamp  filament  is  0 -013-inch  (O-33-mm),  that  is.  ten 
times  larger  than  the  required  slit  width.  By  using  a  high  quality 
condenser  lens  it  is  possible  to  throw  a  reduced  image  of  the  fila- 
ment directly  onto  the  film.  This  image  is  picked  up  by  the  objective 
lens  and  transferred  to  the  photo-cell.  The  difference  in  intensity 
between  the  light  representing  the  filament  image  at  the  film 
surface  and  that  representing  the  diffuse  radiation  surrounding 
this  image  is  such  that  the  filament  image  need  not  be  masked  by 
a  mechanical  slit  at  the  film  plane.  Specially  selected  photo-cells 
must  be  used  with  this  arrangement  to  ensure  that  the  response 
due  to  the  relatively  low  illumination,  surrounding  the  filament 
image,  will  be  negligible.  Although  this  system  appears  to  be 
exceptionally  simple  it  suffers  from  several  disadvantages.  Firstly, 
it  is  essential  that  the  exciter  lamp  filament  shall  be  manufactured 
to  a  high  accuracy  to  ensure  that  its  image  will  always  remain  on 
the  optical  axis  of  the  lens  system.  Secondly,  it  is  important  that 
the  position  of  the  filament  within  the  bulb,  and  the  accuracy  with 
which  the  bulb  may  be  replaced,  shall  also  be  maintained  within 
close  limits.  Thirdly,  the  lamp  must  either  be  under-run  or  so 


SOUND   REPRODUCTION  261 

designed  that  the  temperature  rise  within  the  lamp  bulb  will  not  be 
sufficient  to  cause  the  filament  to  sag  and  so  fall  below  the  optical 
axis. 

In  design  'B'  the  actual  position  and  size  of  the  exciter  lamp 
filament  need  not  be  maintained  to  great  accuracy  since  it  is  only 
used  as  a  means  to  provide  a  relatively  diffuse  cone  of  light  at  the 
plane  of  a  mechanical  slit.  This  slit  is  made  ten  times  larger  than 
the  final  requirements.  An  objective  lens  is  therefore  used  to  throw 
a  reduced  image  of  this  slit  onto  the  film  surface.  The  film  is  then 
caused  to  run  in  a  path  close  to  the  photo-cell  and,  unless  a  further 
optical  system  is  used  between  the  film  and  the  cell,  this  may  easily 
become  an  inconvenience  to  the  projector  designer.  A  great 
advantage  of  this  system  is  that  the  mechanical  slit  is  quite  large 
and  may  therefore  be  easily  manufactured.  It  is  also  possible  to 
enclose  the  slit  totally  within  a  unit  casting  containing  the  objective 
lens  and,  therefore,  to  afford  protection  from  dust.  Such  an 
arrangement  also  ensures  that,  once  the  relative  distance  between 
the  lens  and  the  slit  has  been  carefully  adjusted,  it  will  remain 
fixed  and  yet  still  permit  easy  removal  as  and  when  this  may  be 
necessary. 

In  design  'C  the  position  of  the  exciter  lamp  filament  is  again 
relatively  unimportant  since  it  is  only  used,  in  conjunction  with  the 
condenser  lens,  to  diffusely  illuminate  a  relatively  large  area 
of  the  sound  track.  In  this  arrangement  the  objective  lens  is  used 
to  throw  an  enlarged  image  of  the  track  onto  a  correspondingly 
large  slit.  If,  for  instance,  the  objective  lens  covers  a  distance  of 
0»0013-inch  (O-033-mm)  on  the  film,  and  enlarges  this  ten 
times  when  projecting  an  image  onto  the  plane  of  the  slit,  it 
will  then  be  possible  to  use  a  slit  of  0-0130-inch  (0-330-mm) 
and  still  to  maintain  adequate  frequency  response.  This  system 
has  the  advantage  that  only  the  slit  is  required  to  be  near  to 
the  photo-cell  and  it  may  therefore  be  conveniently  built  into 
the  cell  housing.  If,  for  any  reason,  this  arrangement  is  not  con- 
venient it  is  then  possible  to  use  a  one-to-one  objective  lens 
between  this  slit  and  the  photo-cell  and  then  to  place  the  cell  in  a 
more  suitable  position. 

The  Audible  Spectrum 

Before  leaving  the  question  of  the  final  or  effective  slit  width  it  will 
be  as  well  to  consider  the  frequency  range  covered  by  the  human 
voice  and  by  various  instruments.  Figure  119  shows  diagrammatic- 
ally  the  various  frequency  ranges  when  compared  with  the  full 
piano  scale  and  with  the  limits  of  the  human  ear.  It  should  be 


262 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


TSO-- -ZO\l  - 

-SAS?,    CLARINET - 


J3ASSOON-| 


BACS    TLSA— 


r 


KETTLE    OftUM-, 


1 


?      easg    s    ssffg    a    as:s    a    2*88    a    a  si s    s    a  ssa    s    ass  8    s    s 


CYCLES   PER  SECONO 


<  w  n      &      o  ®  2  d     ^     o  *c  © 

8.*  a    s    §  3  R  §    q    5*8 

-         -         -        ^  ?5  oi  »>J        **        «"   V   ■» 


■LIMITS   OF  HUMAN    EAR  SENSITIVITY 


Fig.  119. — The  audible  spectrum. 


noticed  that  the  human  voice  extends  from  40  cycles  per  second 
up  to  1,152  cycles  per  second.  The  piccolo  would  appear  to  be  the 
most  difficult  instrument  to  reproduce  by  a  photographic  film 
track  since  it  has  a  top  natural  frequency  of  approximately  4,500 
cycles  per  second.  This,  however,  is  not  the  case  since  it  will  be 
noticed  that  the  upper  harmonics  of  some  musical  instruments  may 
extend  to  10,000  cycles  per  second  and  that  of  the  piccolo  does  not 
go  further  than  6,000  cycles  per  second.  The  violin,  having  a 
fundamental  top  frequency  of  approximately  3,000  cycles  per 
second,  has  a  harmonic  range  up  to  8,000  cycles  per  second. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  all  instruments  produce  notes 
composed  of  the  fundamental  frequency  plus  one  or  more  harmonics 
-  it  is  very  rare  that  we  hear  a  pure  note.  In  the  examples  mentioned 
above  the  top  limits  to  the  harmonic  response  are  set  by  comparing 
the  volume  of  the  harmonic  with  that  of  the  fundamental  note. 
Volume  normally  decreases  as  the  harmonics  increase  and,  for 
our  purposes  may  be  ignored  after  they  fall  below  a  given  volume. 

Harmonics  are  frequencies  either  two,  three,  four  or  more 
times  that  of  the  fundamental  frequency  or  pure  note  and  are 
produced  by  the  nature  of  the  instrument  which  is  being  played. 
It  should  therefore  be  obvious  that  it  is  necessary  to  reproduce 
these  harmonics  if  the  resultant  sounds  are  to  be  identified  with  the 
instrument  which  originally  produced  them.  From  these  considera- 
tions it  will  be  found  that  a  violin  can  only  be  faithfully  reproduced 
if  the  recording  and  reproducing  systems  are  capable  of  resolving 
frequencies  up  to  8,000  per  second  -  that  is,  the  frequency  of  the 


SOUND  REPRODUCTION  263 

highest  order  of  harmonics  which  is  still  of  sufficient  volume,  when 
compared  with  the  fundamental  note,  to  noticably  affect  the  nature 
of  the  response. 

When  it  is  remembered  that  the  area  covered  by  one  high 
frequency  on  the  film  track  is  approximately  0-0013-inch  (0-033- 
mm)  in  the  direction  of  the  film  travel,  but  is  0  •  084-inch  (2  •  13-mm) 
across  the  film  width,  it  will  be  realised  that  the  scanned  area  is 
rectangular  in  shape.  The  simple  lens  system  shown  in  Figure  118 
is  therefore  frequently  supplemented  by  one  or  more  cylindrical 
lenses  and  more  complicated  optical  systems.  The  diagrams  shown 
are  only  intended  to  convey  the  general  principle  of  each  system 
and  not  to  represent  a  detailed  arrangement  of  any  one  sound 
head. 

Photo-Electric  Cells 

It  will  be  apparent  that,  whereas  the  motion  picture  largely 
depends  for  its  success  upon  the  intermittent  mechanism,  the 
reproduction  of  sound  from  photographic  records  depends  to  an 
equal  extent  upon  the  properties  of  photo-electric  cells.  The 
principle  behind  the  operation  of  the  photo-electric  cells  used  in 
sound  reproduction  is  based  upon  the  fact  that  electrons  are  emitted 
from  certain  metals  when  a  beam  of  light  falls  upon  their  surfaces. 
The  metals  used  in  sound  film  photo-cells  are  chosen  because, 
over  a  wide  range,  the  degree  of  emission  is  proportional  to  the 
intensity  of  the  light  falling  on  the  cell.  When  such  a  metal  forms 
the  cathode  of  an  electrical  circuit,  and  a  second  conductor  is 
placed  in  close  proximity  to  it,  the  second  conductor  will  form  the 
anode  of  the  circuit  and,  in  consequence,  a  current  will  flow  through 
the  circuit.  We  therefore  have  at  our  disposal  an  instrument 
capable  of  converting  variations  in  the  sound  track  into  corres- 
ponding electrical  pulses  or  waves. 

This  link  in  the  chain  of  sound  recording  and  reproduction  now 
completes  the  cycle  of  events  and  the  entire  process,  shown  in 
Figure  120,  may  be  briefly  stated  as  follows:  -  (1)  Incident  sounds, 
arising  from  musical  instruments,  the  human  voice  or  any  source 
of  vibration,  create  variations  in  air  pressure.  (2)  These  variations 
in  air  pressure  strike  the  diaphragm  of  a  microphone  which  is 
thereby  caused  to  vibrate  in  sympathy  with  them.  (3)  The  mechan- 
ical vibrations  of  the  diaphragm  control  the  electrical  properties 
of  the  microphone  and  therefore  create  electrical  waves,  again  in 
proportion  to  the  original  air  pressure.  (4)  The  electrical  waves  are 
amplified  and  caused  to  operate  a  light  modulating  device.  (5)  The 
light  modulating  device  is  so  arranged  to  create  either  a  Variable 


264 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


INCIDENT   SOUNDS  CREATE 
VARIATIONS  IN   AIR 
PRESSURE 


MICROPHONE   DIAPHRAGM 
VIBRATES  IN  SYMPATHY  WITH 
THE   AIR   PRESSURE 
WAVES 


DIAPHRAGM  CREATES 
ELECTRICAL  WAVES  PROPORT- 
IONAL TO  THE  AIR  PRESSURE 
WAVES 


FILM  IS  PROCESSED  AND 
PRINTED  TO  PRODUCE  A 
POSITIVE   IMAGE 


I 


POSITIVE  FILM  RUNS  THROUGH 
REPRODUCER  AT  A  SPEED 
ECUAL  TO  THAT  OF   THE 
ORICINAL    RECORDING 


LIGHT  MODULATOR  CREATE! 
A  VARYING  EXPOSURE    ON 
THE  PHOTOGRAPHIC  FILM 


LIGHT  BEAM  IS  MODULATED 
BY  POSITIVE  SOUND  TRACK 


ELECTRICAL  WAVES  AMPLIFIED 
TO  OPERATE  A  LIGHT 
MODULATING  DEVICE 


MODULATED  LIGHT  BEAM 
CAUSES  PHOTO-CELL  TO 
CREATE  ELECTRICAL  WAVES 


LOUDSPEAKER   DIAPHRAGM 

RECREATES    THE  ORIGINAL 

AIR  PRESSURE  WAVES 


ELECTRICAL  WAVES  ARE 
AMPLIFIED  AND  APPLIED  TO 
LOUDSPEAKERS 


Fig.  120.— Sound  recording  and  reproducing  cycle. 


Area  or  Variable  Density  exposure  on  a  photographic  film  running 
at  a  constant  speed  past  this  modulation.  (6)  After  processing  and 
printing,  a  positive  copy  of  the  photographic  record  of  the  varia- 
tions in  air  pressure  is  obtained.  (7)  This  positive  copy  is  then  run 
at  a  constant  speed,  equal  to  that  of  the  original  negative  film, 
through  the  sound  reproducing  head.  (8)  A  constant  beam  of  light 
is  directed  onto  the  sound  track  and,  after  passing  through  this 
track  emerges  as  a  beam  modulated  in  intensity  in  proportion  to 
the  original  variations  in  air  pressure,  created  by  the  incident 
sounds.  (9)  This  modulating  light  beam  is  directed  onto  the  photo- 
electric cell  which  is  capable  of  creating  variations  in  an  electrical 
circuit.  (10)  These  electrical  waves  are  finally  amplified  and  applied 
to  loudspeakers  which  will  then  cause  a  mechanical  oscillation  of 
the  diaphragm.  (11)  The  mechanical  movement  of  the  speakers 
recreate  the  air  pressure  waves  and,  therefore,  the  original  sounds. 

The  action  of  the  photo-electric  cell  is  similar  in  principle  to  that 
of  the  thermionic  valves  used  in  radio  equipment  inasmuch  as 
electrons,  liberated  by  the  Cathode,  move  through  space  and  are 
collected  by  the  Anode.  One  essential  difference  is,  however,  that 
whereas  electrons  are  liberated  from  the  Cathode  in  a  radio  valve 
by  the  action  of  heat,  those  liberated  from  the  Cathode  in  a  photo- 
electric cell  are  propelled  by  the  action  of  light  energy.  At  present 
our  knowledge  of  the  properties  of  light  is  not  sufficient  to  give  a 
satisfactory  explanation  of  this  phenomenon. 

Four  main  types  of  photo-cells  are  available,  firstly  'Photo- 


SOUND   REPRODUCTION  265 

Emissive  Cells',  or  those  in  which  electrons  are  liberated  from  the 
Cathode,  under  the  influence  of  light  energy,  and  are  collected  by 
the  Anode.  Secondly,  'Photo-Conducting  Cells',  or  those  cells  in 
which  the  electrical  resistance  varies  with  the  illumination.  Thirdly, 
'Photo-Barrier  Cells',  in  which  a  potential  is  actually  generated 
under  the  influence  of  light  energy.  Lastly,  'Photo-Voltaic  Cells', 
in  which  a  potential  is  produced  on  one  of  two  electrodes  when 
both  are  immersed  in  dilute  electrolytes  and  one  electrode  is 
under  the  influence  of  the  light  beam. 

The  first  group  of  cells,  those  known  as  'Photo-Emissive  Cells', 
are  the  type  used  in  photographic  sound  reproduction  since,  over 
certain  narrow  bands  of  the  spectrum,  they  are  very  much  more 
sensitive  than  the  remaining  three  types  of  cells.  As  yet  it  has  only 
been  possible  to  use  very  few  metals  with  which  to  make  the 
Cathode  in  these  cells,  the  most  common  being  Sodium,  Potassium, 
Rubidium  and  Caesium.  Sodium  has  been  found  to  be  the  most 
sensitive  and  Caesium  the  least  sensitive  of  these  metals.  Each  of 
these  pure  metals  is  found  to  be  most  sensitive  at  different  regions 
of  the  spectrum  but,  by  special  treatment,  this  sensitivity  may  be 
greatly  increased  and  caused  to  spread  over  a  wider  colour  or 
wave-length  range. 

The  cells  used  in  sound  reproduction  may  be  divided  into  two 
further  groups;  those  containing  an  inert  gas,  and  those  which 
operate  within  a  vacuum.  Those  containing  a  gas  have  the 
advantage  that  the  current  changes  are  slightly  amplified  by  the 
cell  itself,  whereas,  in  those  which  operate  within  a  vacuum,  the 
current  changes  consist  only  of  the  electrons  initially  liberated 
from  the  Cathode  and  due  to  the  light  falling  upon  its  sensitive 
surface.  Again,  the  envelope  or  bulb  which  contains  the  electrodes 
may  be  either  glass  or  quartz,  depending  upon  the  metal  chosen  for 
use  as  the  Cathode  and  also  upon  the  wave-length  of  the  light 
emitted  from  the  exciter  lamp. 

The  alternating  speech  current  from  such  cells  is  extremely 
small,  in  some  cases  requiring  to  be  amplified  1,000  times  before 
being  equal  to  that  from  an  electrical  pick-up  used  in  disc  repro- 
duction. Because  of  this  it  is  essential  that  the  connections  between 
the  cell  and  the  pre-amplifier  shall  be  as  short  as  possible  and  also 
that  such  connections  shall  be  adequately  'screened'  to  prevent 
interference  from  other  electrical  circuits  in  the  neighbourhood. 

When  dealing  with  sound  recording  systems  (Chapter  7)  a 
method  of  reducing  distortion  and  increasing  final  reproducer 
volume  was  described.  This  system,  known  as  'Push-PulP  record- 
ing, requires  a  particular  type  of  photo-cell  containing  two  identical 


266 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


PUSH-PULL  PHOTOCELL  WITH 
TWO  CATHODES  t  TWO  ANODES 


SINGLE  PRISM    E.   TWO 
CYLINDRICAL   LENSES 


ATHODES 


DOUBLE    PRISM 
/CONDENSER   LENS 
'CYLINDRICAL  LENS 


PUSH-PULL 
SOUND  TRACK 


NOTE^  OUTSIDE    HALF    OF  TRACK   IS 
REPRODUCED    BY  LOWER    ANOOE 
t    CATHODE ;  INNER    HALF    BY 
UPPER  ANODE  €  CATHOOE 


Fig.  121. — Push-pull  sound  reproduction. 

sets  of  electrodes,  as  seen  in  Figure  121.  It  will  be  noticed  that,  by 
using  specially  designed  optical  components,  it  is  possible  to  feed 
each  half  of  the  sound  track  to  its  respective  section  in  the  photo- 
cell. As  explained  previously,  the  current  from  the  cell  is  fed  to 
two  valves,  coupled  in  parallel,  so  that  more  than  double  the  volume 
range  previously  obtained  by  a  single  cell  and  sound  track  will  be 
reproduced. 

Film  Drive  at  the  Scanning  Point 

Obviously,  the  film  must  be  driven  past  the  light  beam  at  a  perfectly 
uniform  speed  to  ensure  that  the  pitch  of  the  reproduced  sounds  is 
free  from  variations  or  'wowing'.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the 
photo-cells  previously  described  are  able  to  respond  to  changes 
in  light  intensity  as  rapid  as  9,000  times  every  second.  The  film 
speed  past  the  scanning  point  is  18-inches  (45-7-cms)  per  second; 
a  variation  in  speed  of  1%  would  cause  a  constant  6,000  cycle 
frequency  on  the  sound  track  to  be  reproduced  with  a  rise  and 
fall  between  6,060  and  5,940  cycles  per  second,  and  would  be 
detected  by  the  audience. 

One  of  the  many  arrangements  which  have  been  devised  in 
order  to  maintain  a  constant  film  speed  past  the  scanning  point 
is  seen  in  Figure  122.  The  left-hand  diagram  shows  a  side  elevation 
of  that  part  of  the  projector  mechanism  between  the  picture  gate 
and  the  final  take-up  spool.  As  we  have  seen  previously,  the  film 
is  drawn  intermittently  through  the  picture  gate  by  a  sprocket 
wheel  solidly  connected  to  a  Maltese  Cross  mechanism.  The  film 
is  then  formed  into  a  free  loop  between  the  intermittent  sprocket 


SOUND  REPRODUCTION 


267 


and  what  was,  in  the  'silent'  days,  the  constant  speed  take-up 
sprocket.  From  this  point  the  film  passes  vertically  downwards  to 
the  curved  'scanning  gate',  over  which  it  is  guided  by  two  small 
rollers.  This  scanning  gate  is  stationary  and  has  an  aperture  cut 
through  it  so  that  light  from  the  'sound  optics'  may  pass  through 
the  film  track  and  so  to  the  photo-cell.  The  film  is  then  wrapped 
around  a  very  accurately  mounted  speed  controlling  roller,  which 
is  driven  by  a  fluid  flywheel,  as  shown  in  the  right  hand  diagram. 
After  passing  a  further  series  of  damping  rollers,  the  film  is  fed  to 
the  take-up  spool  by  a  final  constant  speed  hold-back  sprocket. 

The  success  of  this  system  depends  upon  the  fact  that  the  film  is 
only  drawn  through  the  scanning  gate  by  the  speed  control  roller, 
and  it  is  therefore  essential  that  this  roller  shall  rotate  at  a  constant 
speed.  The  drive  to  the  roller  is  seen  in  the  right-hand  diagram  to 
be  as  follows.  The  normal  projector  gear  train  or,  in  some  cases, 
a  direct  drive  from  the  motor,  causes  the  worm  drive  to  rotate  the 
large  worm  wheel.  This  worm  wheel  is  solidly  coupled  to  a  large 
circular  drum,  shown  in  section.  The  outer  periphery  of  this  drum 
is  fitted  within  a  second  hollow  drum  so  that  a  small  clearance 
exists  between  the  two.  A  particular  oil,  selected  for  its  viscosity 
and  resistance  to  changes  of  temperature,  forms  a  coupling 
medium  between  the  two  drums  -  no  mechanical  or  other  connec- 
tion existing  between  their  faces.  The  outer  and  larger  drum  is 


PICTURE   GATE 


CONSTANT    SPEED 
TAKE-UP    SPROCKET 


OUTSiDE  DRUM  IS  ONLY    DRIVEN 
BY  THC  VISCOUS  COUPLE    DUE   TO 
THE  LAYER  OF  0!L    BETWEEN   IT 
AND    THE  INNER    DRUM. 


SOUND   OPTICS 


SPEED  CONTROL  ROLLER 
ATTACHED   TO  FLYWHEEL  SHAFT 


TO    TAKE-UP  SPOOl 


Fig.  122. — A  constant  speed  scanning  device. 


268  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

heavily  built  and  acts  as  a  flywheel.  It  is  solidly  connected  to  a 
second  shaft,  on  which  is  mounted  the  speed  control  roller. 

The  combined  action  of  the  flywheel  drum  and  the  viscous 
couple  to  the  directly  driven  section  of  the  mechanism  make  the 
control  roller  very  resistant  to  changes  in  speed.  In  consequence 
almost  all  the  small  variations  in  driving  speed,  caused  by  the 
electrical  supply,  inaccuracies  in  cutting  the  gear  teeth  or  irregular 
frictional  loads  in  the  bearings,  are  eliminated  from  the  control 
roller  and  the  film  is  drawn  at  a  constant  speed  through  the 
scanning  gate. 

It  should  be  noted  from  Figure  122  that  a  considerable  mech- 
anism, occupying  a  relatively  large  container,  is  necessary  to 
produce  the  required  constant  film  speed  at  the  scanning  point. 
The  film  itself  is  required  to  pass  through  two  completely  opposite 
mechanical  conditions.  Firstly,  when  passing  through  the  picture 
gate,  it  must  move  forward  in  a  series  of  rapid  intermittent  motions, 
interrupted  by  periods  when  it  is  absolutely  stationary.  Before  the 
film  reaches  the  sound  scanning  point  this  intermittent  movement 
must  be  completely  eliminated  and,  apart  from  that,  any  in- 
accuracies in  the  projector  gearing  must  also  be  removed. 

Obviously,  the  varying  load  on  the  Maltese  Cross  intermittent 
mechanism  will  cause  corresponding  variations  in  the  friction 
between  the  teeth  of  the  gear  wheels  which  operate  this  cross. 
In  turn,  these  changes  in  gear  loading  will  be  transmitted  to  some 
extent  throughout  the  entire  machine.  Modern  equipment  and 
design  have  produced  gears  cut  to  exceptional  accuracy  and  so 
shaped  that  these  small  changes  in  loading  pass  almost  unnoticed. 
Further  assistance  is  given  by  the  heavy  duty  motor  and  flywheel 
system. 

However,  it  has  been  found  that,  to  completely  eliminate  such 
small  variations,  and  also  to  eliminate  the  large  intermittent 
movement  of  the  film  just  below  the  picture  gate,  a  film  path  of 
considerable  length  must  exist  between  the  picture  and  sound 
apertures.  To  ensure  that  all  films  may  be  reproduced  in  synchro- 
nism on  all  projectors,  a  standard  film  distance  of  20  frames  has 
been  specified  between  these  two  apertures.  This  means  that,  when 
a  given  sound  is  located  in  the  sound  gate,  the  picture  corres- 
ponding to  this  sound  is  printed  20  frames  further  into  the  roll  of 
film;  that  is,  the  sound  is  printed  ahead  of  the  picture. 

Some  people  have  questioned  this  practice,  and  have  reasoned 
that  a  further  adjustment  should  be  made  to  compensate  for  the 
relative  speeds  of  light  and  sound.  Light  travels  at  a  speed  of 
approximately  186,000  miles  per  second,  whereas  sound  only 


SOUND   REPRODUCTION  269 

travels  at  a  speed  of  1,100  feet  every  second.  In  a  theatre  of  110- 
feet  (33  •  53-metres)  in  length  it  may  be  assumed  that  the  light  will 
reach  the  screen  instantaneously.  Since  the  sounds  originate  from 
just  behind  the  screen,  the  people  who  would  most  likely  notice  a 
lack  of  synchronism  would  be  those  seated  at  the  back  of  the  hall. 
Sounds  would  reach  these  people  approximately  1  /10th  of  a  second 
later  than  they  would  reach  those  people  seated  in  the  front  row. 
Assuming  that  a  balance  would  be  struck  and  true  synchronism 
would  be  provided  for  the  seats  at  the  middle  distance,  the  sound 
should  be  advanced  by  1  /20th  of  a  second. 

Obviously,  such  an  adjustment  would  correspond  to  1  •  2  frames, 
or  a  distance  of  0  •  90-inches  (22-8-mm).  This  arrangement  would 
only  provide  perfect  synchronism  at  the  centre  of  a  theatre  of 
110-ft  (33  •  53-metres)  in  length.  Two  main  considerations  make 
such  an  adjustment  impracticable;  Firstly,  theatres  vary  in  length 
from  approximately  70-ft  (21-34-metres)  up  to  as  much  as  200-ft 
(60-96-metres),  this  would  mean  that  true  synchronism  would  be 
obtained  in  the  centre  of  the  small  theatre  if  an  adjustment  of 
0-60-inch  (15-24-mm)  were  to  be  made.  In  the  larger  theatre  true 
synchronism  would  be  obtained  in  the  centre  of  the  auditorium 
if  an  adjustment  of  1-60-inches  (40-6-mm)  were  to  be  made. 
Such  conditions  would  mean  that  either  specially  printed  films 
would  be  required  for  theatres  of  different  sizes  since,  if  such  an 
adjustment  is  worth  while  considering  at  all,  the  range  required 
would  not  be  accommodated  on  one  average  setting,  or  special 
film  threading  instructions  would  be  required  for  each  theatre. 

The  second  consideration  is  that  such  a  costly  procedure  would 
only  be  ultimately  worth  while  if  all  operators  could  be  relied  upon 
to  thread  their  machines  with  absolute  accuracy.  Firstly,  it  is 
questionable  if,  in  any  but  the  largest  theatres,  lack  of  synchronism, 
which  can  be  honestly  be  attributed  to  incorrect  sound  lead  on 
the  film  itself,  would  be  detected  by  the  audience.  When  it  is  noticed 
that  synchronism  is  lost  it  is  far  more  probable  that  either  the  print 
has  been  incorrectly  made,  it  has  been  incorrectly  threaded  in  the 
projector  or  that  it  has  been  both  incorrectly  made  and  incorrectly 
threaded.  However,  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  in  France  the 
standards  have  in  fact  been  adjusted  to  make  allowances  for  this 
time  lag. 

The  Main  Driving  Motor 

Referring  back  to  the  sound  scanning  head,  it  has  been  previously 
stated  that  constant  film  speed  depends  to  some  extent  upon  the 
driving  motor  and  the  manner  in  which  it  is  coupled  to  the  projector. 


270  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

In  some  arrangements,  where  the  drive  to  the  scanning  drum 
is  either  directly  from  the  motor  or  through  exceptionally  well 
made  gears,  fluid  couplings  may  be  unnecessary.  This  is  particu- 
larly so  in  those  systems  which  apply  accurate  speed  control  to 
the  main  driving  motor.  Where  alternating  current  is  available  it 
is  now  possible  to  use  a  specially  designed  single-phase  induction 
motor,  having  a  very  small  slip,  or  speed  change  when  under  load. 
The  motors  are  selected  for  the  particular  projectors  in  use  and, 
of  course,  the  load  applied  to  the  motor  is  therefore  measurable 
and  is  a  constant.  Exceptionally  accurate  gear-boxes  are  then 
supplied  with  the  motors  to  compensate  for  the  slip  due  to  the 
projector  load,  and  to  maintain  the  required  output  speed.  This 
is  more  easily  understood  from  a  specific  example.  Let  us  assume 
that  the  driving  shaft  to  a  particular  mechanism  is  required  to 
rotate  at  2,500  revs  per  minute  in  order  to  maintain  correct 
projection  speed  and  sound  pitch.  The  motor  selected  to  operate 
this  machine  will  run  at  2,500  R.P.M.  on  'open  circuit',  or  when 
it  is  not  coupled  to  the  projector.  When  it  is  driving  the  projector 
it  is  found  that  the  speed  drops  to  2,400  R.P.M.  Now,  due  to  the 
construction  of  the  motor  and  its  selection  for  this  particular 
work,  it  has  been  found  to  run  constantly  at  this  speed  within  plus 
or  minus  one-fifth  of  one  per  cent.  It  is  therefore  possible  to 
introduce  a  gear  box  having  a  ratio  of  2,400  to  2,500  and  so  to 
compensate  for  the  drop  in  speed  when  under  load.  Those  who  are 
familiar  with  electric  motor  windings  will  realise  that  it  is  only 
possible  to  obtain  motors  wound  to  certain  definite  speed  ratings. 
If  this  were  not  so  it  would  be  possible  to  select  a  motor  to  satisfy 
the  example  given  which  would  run  at  2,600  R.P.M.  on  open 
circuit,  but  which  fell  to  2,500  R.P.M.  when  under  load. 

Unfortunately  this  very  neat  arrangement  can  only  be  operated 
when  an  alternating  current  supply  is  available.  However,  some 
installations  employ  a  motor  generator  set,  operated  from  the 
direct  current  supply,  to  generate  a  supply  of  alternating  current 
which  may  then  be  used  to  operate  the  motor  system  previously 
described.  Where  a  motor  generator  set  is  not  available  and  the 
specially  designed  induction  motors  have  not  been  fitted,  it  is 
usual  to  find  the  motor  speed  controlled  by  a  tuned  valve  circuit 
such  as  that  seen  in  Figure  123. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  consider  the  operation  of  this  system  in 
detail,  but  those  who  are  familiar  with  valve  circuits  will  gain  a 
general  idea  of  the  principle  by  the  following  description  of  the 
three  cases  of  correct,  high  and  low  motor  speeds.  Firstly,  when 
the  motor  is  rotating  at  the  correct  speed,  there  will  be  no  voltage 


SOUND   REPRODUCTION 


271 


on  the  grid  of  the  detector  valve  'V.4*  and  this  will  mean  that  valves 
'V.T  and  'V.2'  will  not  alter  the  normal  current  flowing  through 
the  magnetic  modulator.  The  motor  will  therefore  continue  to  run 
at  this  speed. 

When  the  motor  speed  is  too  high  the  current  through  the  rotor 
winding  of  the  magnetic  modulator  will  also  be  high.  However, 
the  tuned  circuit  will  cause  the  voltages  on  the  grid  and  the  plate 
of  the  detector  valve  'V.4'  both  to  be  positive.  When  this  occurs 
there  will  be  a  high  voltage  drop  across  resistance  'R'  and,  conse- 
quently, a  large  negative  grid  bias  on  rectifier  valves  'V.T  and 
'V.2\  This  will  in  turn  reduce  the  current  in  the  D.C.  winding  of 
the  magnetic  modulator  and  produce  a  high  choking  action  in 
the  rotor  winding,  thereby  reducing  the  motor  speed. 

When  the  motor  speed  is  too  low  the  current  through  the  rotor 
winding  of  the  magnetic  modulator  will  also  be  low.  Under  these 
conditions  the  tuned  circuit  will  cause  the  voltages  on  the  grid 
and  the  plate  of  detector  valve  'V.4'  to  be  out  of  phase  and, 
consequently,  will  produce  a  low  plate  current  in  this  valve.  Under 
these  conditions  there  will  be  a  low  voltage  drop  across  resistance 
*R\  and  therefore  only  a  small  grid  bias  on  the  rectifier  valves 
'V.T  and  *V.2\  The  plate  current  in  these  valves  will  therefore  be 
high  and  the  current  through  the  D.C.  winding  of  the  magnetic 
modulator  will  also  be  high.  This  will  produce  only  a  low  choking 
action  of  the  rotor  winding  in  the  modulator  and  the  motor  speed 
will  thereby  increase. 


MAGNETIC    MODULATOR 

\c 


ROTOR' 

WINDING* 


no  VOLT 
AC   SUPPLY 


DC. 

WINDING 


INDUCTOR    GENERATOR 


RECTIFIER 
VALVES  VI. 
AND  V  2 


l/S/W— »— — f-v  x   qvalve  V* 


Fig.  123. — Motor  speed  control  circuit. 


272 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


GAUZE 
POLE    PIECES. 


TO  HORN 


FLARED    THROAT 


SPEECH    COIL 


FIELD  MAGNtT 


WOOL  \ 

PACKING        D;APHRA6M 


Fig.  124. — Typical  theatre  speaker. 


The  valve  circuit  causes  changes  in  current  through  the  D.C. 
winding  of  the  magnetic  modulator  according  to  the  condition  of 
detector  valve  'V.4\  Changes  in  motor  speed  as  small  as  0.2  of 
1  per-cent  are  detected  by  the  tuned  circuit  and  serve  to  change  the 
phase  relationship  between  the  grid  and  plate  voltages  of  the 
detector  valve.  It  is  these  changes  in  phase  relationship  which 
ultimately  change  the  current  passing  through  the  D.C.  winding 
of  the  magnetic  modulator  and  so  control  the  motor  speed. 

The  Speaker  and  Horn  System 

Having  obtained  a  constant  film  speed,  an  accurately  controlled 
motor  drive,  a  constant  exciter  lamp  source  and  a  photo-cell  to 
reproduce  the  photographic  sound  track,  we  are  able  to  feed  to 
the  main  amplifier  an  electrical  signal  which  will  be  as  nearly  as 
possible  a  faithful  reproduction  of  the  original  record.  Since  the 
theory  of  radio  amplification  is  well  known  and  readily  available 
for  those  who  are  interested  in  its  details,  there  is  no  point  in  dis- 
cussing particular  circuits  at  this  stage.  Assuming  it  is  possible  to 
produce  a  sufficiently  strong  signal  to  operate  the  speakers  we  can 
then  consider  the  final  stage  in  sound  reproduction.  Loudspeakers 
are  electro-acoustic  instruments  designed  to  transform  electrical 
signals  into  sound  waves.  Present-day  speakers  are  of  the  electro- 
dynamic  type  and  operate  in  conjunction  with  either  a  diaphragm 
or  cone.  A  typical  theatre  speaker,  designed  by  the  Western 
Electric  Company,  is  seen  in  Figure  124. 

In  this  unit  the  diaphragm  is  formed  from  an  aluminium  alloy 
less  than  0-002-inches  (0-050-mm)  thick  and  is  of  curved  section 
rather  like  a  hemisphere  This  curved  section  increases  the  strength 


SOUND    REPRODUCTION  273 

of  the  diaphragm  and,  due  to  its  shape,  the  outer  edges  are  able  to 
oscillate  in  response  to  the  impulse  from  the  speech  coil  whilst  the 
centre  of  the  curve  remains  stationary.  The  speech  coil  consists  of 
an  aluminium  tape  wound  edge-wise  as  shown  in  the  illustration, 
and  free  to  oscillate  in  the  air-gap  between  the  pole  pieces.  The 
flared  throat,  connecting  the  speaker  with  the  horn,  is  so  designed 
that  the  vibrations  from  the  inner  and  the  outer  sections  of  the 
diaphragm  will  reach  the  neck  of  the  horn  in  true  phase  relation- 
ship. The  rear  of  the  diaphragm  is  closed  by  a  gauze  and  wool 
packing  to  reduce  the  possibility  of  back  pressure  from  air  pulses 
on  this  side.  Such  a  back  pressure  might  set  up  further  sound  waves 
which  would  not  be  in  phase  with  those  produced  at  the  front  of 
the  diaphragm. 

Where  low  output  is  required,  such  as  in  a  radio  receiver,  the 
speaker  unit  may  be  directly  mounted  to  a  heavy  baffle  board 
but,  where  much  greater  output  is  required,  such  as  that  used  in 
theatres,  it  is  necessary  to  mount  the  speaker  behind  a  correctly 
designed  horn  unit.  The  size  and  shape  of  such  horns  are  of  great 
importance  if  high  fidelity  reproduction  is  to  be  achieved.  The  most 
efficient  shape  is  known  as  the  'exponential  curve'  which  means, 
very  briefly,  that  the  cross  sectional  area  of  the  horn  is  doubled 
for  every  18-inches  (45-7-cms)  of  its  length.  The  length  of  the  horn 
should  be  at  least  equal  to  the  length  of  the  longest  sound  wave 
it  is  designed  to  reproduce.  For  example,  a  frequency  of  70  cycles 
per  second  has  a  wave  length  of  approximately  15-feet  (4-6: 
metres)  and,  therefore,  the  effective  length  of  a  horn  required  to 
reproduce  such  a  note  faithfully  should  not  be  less  than  this 
amount.  However,  it  is  not  necessary  that  such  a  horn  should  be 
built  in  one  straight  length;  it  may  be  coiled  around  itself  in  a 
number  of  ways  but,  in  all  cases,  the  curvature  should  be  as  little 
as  possible.  The  relatively  high  frequencies,  such  as  those  above 
4,000  cycles,  are  often  best  reproduced  from  speakers  with  shorter 
horns  and  it  is  therefore  common  practice  to  install  two  types, 
the  large,  low  frequency  reproducer,  and  also  smaller  high 
frequency  reproducers,  usually  affectionately  known  as  'tweeters' ! 

The  Sound  Screen 

The  banks  of  speakers  are  usually  mounted  near  to  the  centre  of 
the  screen,  each  speaker  being  placed  at  different  angles  to  a 
centre  line  down  the  auditorium  to  ensure  balanced  volume  over 
the  seating  area.  In  the  early  days  speakers  were  often  placed  just 
below  the  screen  and  in  the  orchestra  pit,  but  it  was  soon  agreed 
that  such  a  position  was  not  satisfactory  and,  in  consequence,  the 

18 


274  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

screen  became  the  subject  of  many  experiments.  Sound  screens 
now  serve  the  dual  purpose  of  reflecting  light  and  also  transmitting 
sound.  If  the  screen  presents  an  unbroken  surface  to  the  sound 
waves  it  will  be  caused  to  vibrate  as  an  enormous  diaphragm  and 
will,  therefore,  produce  new  sound  waves  which  will  partially 
combine  with  and  partially  destroy  the  original  waves  from  the 
speakers.  The  more  usual  arrangement  is  to  provide  small  openings 
throughout  the  screen  surface  and  through  which  the  sound  waves 
created  by  the  speakers  may  freely  pass. 

It  will  be  realised  that  any  apertures  cut  in  the  screen,  however 
small,  will  reduce  the  effective  brilliance  of  the  picture.  It  is,  of 
course,  quite  possible  to  cut  a  series  of  small  apertures  over  the 
entire  screen  surface  without  allowing  them  to  be  big  enough  or 
sufficiently  close  together  for  the  audience  to  see  them  but  they 
will  certainly  reduce  the  screen  brightness.  The  most  efficient 
sound  screen  is  therefore  a  balance  between  the  size  and  distribu- 
tion of  the  apertures  necessary  for  successful  sound  reproduction 
and  the  maximum  definition  and  brightness  tolerances  which  may 
be  allowed  before  the  picture  quality  is  seriously  affected. 

Two  main  types  of  perforated  screen  exist;  firstly  those  manu- 
factured in  soft  rubber,  and  carrying  perforations  approximately 
0-05-inches  (1-27-mm)  in  diameter  and,  secondly,  those  woven 
in  such  a  manner  that  the  threads  are  held  apart  at  intervals  and 
similar  apertures  are  produced  throughout  the  material.  Until 
recently  it  has  not  been  possible  to  obtain  soft  rubber  perforated 
screens  which  could  be  made  fire-proof  and,  until  this  became 
possible,  most  of  the  screens  used  in  this  country  were  of  the  open 
woven  type.  Both  rubber  and  woven  screens  require  constant 
attention  and  cleaning  to  ensure  that  dirt  is  not  allowed  to 
accumulate  within  the  apertures  and  so  reduce  the  sound  volume. 
When  dirt  has  been  allowed  to  block  up  the  perforations  the  screen 
virtually  becomes  a  solid  material  and  will  then  vibrate  with  the 
air  pressure  from  the  speakers.  When  this  occurs  two  defects  be- 
come apparent,  firstly  the  volume  decreases,  and  secondly,  that 
volume  which  remains  is  distorted  and  most  of  the  high  frequency 
response  is  lost.  It  is,  of  course,  also  true  that  the  picture  surface 
will  by  this  time  also  be  very  poor,  but  a  slow  decrease  in  screen 
brightness  is  not  so  noticeable  as  a  corresponding  decrease  in 
sound  quality. 

Theatre  Acoustics  and  Echo 

Having  produced  the  sounds  within  the  auditorium,  it  is  now 

necessary  to  consider  the  design  of  this  building  from  the  stand- 


SOUND  REPRODUCTION 


275 


point  of  acoustic  quality.  Firstly,  the  most  noticeable  trouble 
which  may  occur  is  that  of  echo.  Sounds  are  reflected  from  large 
flat  surfaces  in  much  the  same  manner  that  light  is  reflected  from 
a  mirror.  Figure  125  shows  in  'Case  A'  the  simple  condition  of  a 
single  echo  due  to  such  reflections.  A  person  seated  in  'Position  B' 
will  receive  incident  sound  from  a  speaker  at  a  distance  of  45-ft 
(13'7-metres).  The  same  sound  will  travel  125-ft  (22-86-metres) 
to  the  rear  wall,  be  reflected  upwards,  and  travel  a  further  45-ft 
(13-7-metres)  to  hit  the  inclined  roof,  then  be  reflected  down- 
wards and  travel  a  further  80-ft  (24-38-metres)  before  it  again 
reaches  the  listener  in  'Position  B\  Thus,  the  incident  note  travels 
45-ft  (13-7-metres)  directly  from  the  speaker,  whilst  the  reflected 
note  travels  a  total  of  230-ft  (70-  1-metres)  before  reaching  the  same 
point.  The  listener  at  seat  'B'  would  therefore  hear  an  echo  just 
under  a  quarter  of  a  second  after  he  had  heard  the  original  note, 
and,  such  a  time  lag  would  render  speech  quite  unintelligible. 

The  analogy  between  light  and  sound  may  now  be  carried  a 
stage  further.  We  know  that  light  will  be  reflected  in  straight  lines 
from  a  mirror  surface  and  that,  should  this  surface  then  be  frosted 
or  ground,  the  reflection  will  be  scattered  or  diffused.  In  just  the 
some  manner  the  reflected  sound  beam  may  be  diffused  by  breaking 


CASE    B 

Fig.  125.— Causes  of  echo  In  auditoria. 


276  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

up  the  surface  of  the  wails  and  ceiling  of  the  auditorium  with 
artistic  mouldings  and  plaster  work.  Alternative  methods  are  to 
hang  sound  absorbing  materials,  such  as  heavy  velvet  curtains,  at 
the  points  of  reflection,  or  to  line  the  walls  with  any  of  the  well 
known  sound  absorbing  materials. 

In  'Case  B'  the  condition  is  rather  more  unfortunate  since  a 
listener  in  'Position  C  will  not  only  hear  echo,  but  the  echo  will 
be  a  concentration  of  sound  reflected  from  the  domed  roof.  Sound 
will  be  reflected  from  a  smooth  curved  surface  in  the  same  manner 
that  light  is  reflected  and  focused  by  a  curved  mirror.  If  the  hall  is 
relatively  short,  and  the  time  required  for  the  echo  to  reach  the 
listener  is  therefore  reduced,  it  may  serve  to  reinforce  the  original 
sound  and  give  the  appearance  of  extra  volume,  or,  if  it  arrives 
out  of  phase  with  the  original  sound,  it  may  counteract  the  original 
sounds  and  so  reduce  the  volume.  This  will  depend  upon  the  relative 
distances  between  the  original  sounds  and  the  reflected  sounds. 
If  the  reflected  sounds  arrive  at  the  listening  point  in  phase  with 
the  originals,  they  will  reinforce  the  volume.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  the  reflected  sounds  arrive  out  of  phase  with  the  originals,  they 
will  cancel  each  other  out  and  produce  a  'dead  spot'  in  the 
auditorium. 

Another  characteristic  of  sound  reproduction  which  is  of 
great  importance  is  known  as  the  'Time  of  Reverberation'.  It 
should  be  remembered  that  as  a  note  leaves  the  speaker  it  travels 
outwards  until  it  strikes  an  enclosed  surface.  Part  of  the  energy 
is  then  absorbed  and  the  remainder  is  reflected  to  continue  travel- 
ling in  a  new  direction  until  it  again  strikes  another  object.  This 
process  continues  until  all  the  sound  energy  has  been  absorbed. 
The  time  of  reverberation  is  the  time  required  for  the  sound  to 
completely  die  away.  Actually  the  measurement  of  reverberation 
is  the  time  required  for  a  sound  to  fall  to  1 -millionth  of  its  initial 
volume. 

Obviously,  a  certain  degree  of  reverberation  is  essential  since,  if 
all  notes  died  away  immediately,  they  would  sound  very  dead 
and  fall  without  any  bounce  or  brilliance.  Conversely,  too  much 
reverberation  blurrs  the  reproduction  and  produces  a  rumbling 
effect  known  as  'wooliness'.  Obviously,  an  optium  condition  must 
be  obtained  which  will,  of  course,  depend  upon  the  size  of  the 
auditorium,  its  decorations,  and  the  number  of  people  it  is  designed 
to  accommodate. 

Theatres  are  designed  to  produce  equal  quality  both  when  they 
are  filled  with  people  and  when  only  a  few  seats  are  occupied. 
The  quality  of  seating  and,  particularly,  the  sound  absorbing 


SOUND   REPRODUCTION  277 

properties  of  the  upholstery,  are  arranged  to  be  as  nearly  as  possible 
equal  to  the  sound  absorbing  qualities  of  persons  sitting  on  these 
seats.  It  is  rather  a  sad  thought  to  realise  that  the  delightful 
cushions  in  some  theatre  seats  are  designed  for  our  hearing 
comforts  and  not  our  physical  ease ! 

Sound  Fading 

Returning  now  to  projectors,  it  will  be  obvious  that  the  change-over 
from  one  machine  to  the  next,  in  order  to  maintain  a  continuous 
performance,  must  be  accomplished  without  any  peculiar  noises 
occuring  due  to  the  imput  signals  to  the  main  amplifier  being 
transferred  from  one  pre-amplifier  to  another.  This  is  accomplished 
by  using  a  sound  fading  device  consisting  of  two  potentiometers, 
connected  in  parallel,  and  each  controlling  the  volume  from  one 
sound  head.  Both  units  are  'ganged  together'  and  operated  by  a 
single  control  knob.  Should  the  wiring  break  or  burn  out,  an 
automatic  auxiliary  resistance  may  be  immediately  brought  into 
service  which  will  maintain  a  constant  volume,  corresponding  to  the 
centre  step  on  the  fader  setting  scale. 

Sound  films  contain  a  printed  instruction  to  the  operator 
indicating  the  correct  setting  to  use  with  any  particular  film.  For 
instance,  the  leader  film  may  contain  the  following  information 
'Play  sound  eight  or  nine  Db  above  M.G.M.  average'.  This  would 
indicate  to  the  operator  that,  assuming  he  has  made  a  careful 
check  or  has  been  told  the  average  fader  setting  to  use  with  M.G.M. 
tracks  in  his  theatre,  he  must  run  this  particular  film  with  the  fader 
set  above  this  average.  There  is  a  12  decibel  difference  between 
fader  steps  1  and  2,  a  6  decibel  difference  between  steps  2  and  3 
and  also  between  3  and  4;  all  other  steps  cause  a  difference  of  3 
decibels.  Assuming  his  normal  setting  to  be  step  9,  it  will  be 
necessary  to  increase  this  to  step  12  when  running  a  print  requiring 
8  or  9  Db  above  this  average.  The  fader  is  so  designed  that  rotating 
the  control  reduces  the  volume  from  one  machine  to  zero  and,  by 
still  rotating  the  control  in  the  one  direction,  then  increases  the 
volume  from  the  second  machine.  If,  therefore,  the  first  reel  is  to 
be  run  at  step  9  and  the  second  at  step  12,  the  operator  will  be 
required  to  move  the  fader  setting  from  position  9  on  the  one  half 
of  the  scale  smoothly  down  to  zero  and  up  to  setting  12  on  the 
opposite  half  of  the  scale,  and  at  the  moment  when  the  two 
machines  are  changed  over. 

Having  mentioned  decibels  once  more  it  may  be  as  well  to 
refresh  our  memory  regarding  these  units.  As  we  know,  air  pressure 
waves  are  created  by  sounds  and,  if  we  consider  two  sounds,  the 


278  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

first  of  which  produces  a  pressure  of  ten  units  and  the  second  a 
pressure  of  one  hundred  units  upon  a  given  surface,  we  shall 
realise  that  one  is  considerably  louder  than  the  other.  The  difference 
in  volume  will  not  be  in  the  proportion  of  10  to  100,  but  in  the 
proportion  of  their  logarithms.  Since  the  logarithms  of  10  is  one, 
and  that  of  100  is  two,  the  difference  in  volume  would  be  unity. 
Such  a  difference  is  known  as  a  'bel'.  The  more  practical  unit  is 
the  'decibel'  which  is  one-tenth  of  a  bel. 

If  a  sound  of  given  constant  frequency  is  gradually  increased  in 
volume  from  a  whisper  up  to  an  enormous  blast,  two  definite 
stages  in  the  response  of  the  ear  will  be  passed.  Firstly,  just  as  the 
ear  can  detect  the  sound,  the  point  known  as  the  'Threshold  of 
Audibility'  is  reached.  As  the  volume  increases  the  sound  will 
become  quite  painful  to  the  ear  and,  when  this  occurs,  the  point 
is  known  as  the  'Threshold  of  Feeling'.  Between  these  two  points, 
'The  Threshold  of  Audibility'  and  'The  Threshold  of  Feeling', 
there  will  be  a  difference  in  volume  of  approximately  1 60  decibels, 
depending  upon  the  age  and  health  of  the  observer,  and  the  pitch 
of  the  sound.  An  average  person  is  able  to  detect  a  change  in  volume 
of  one  decibel. 

From  these  points  we  see  that  a  change  in  fader  setting  of  8  or 
9  decibels,  or  3  points  on  the  fader  setting,  will  make  quite  an 
appreciable  change  in  the  volume  of  sound  in  the  auditorium. 

The  Monitor  Speaker 

Since  the  control  of  auditorium  volume  is  obviously  important  it 
is  rather  unfortunate  that  the  'Monitor  Speaker',  which,  as  we  have 
seen  previously,  is  usually  situated  within  the  operating  box,  may 
not  be  used  to  judge  the  actual  conditions  within  the  auditorium. 
This  speaker  is  normally  wired  to  the  output  control  panel  of  the 
main  amplifiers  but  is  provided  with  an  independent  volume 
control.  It  is  intended  to  help  the  operator  to  hear  the  sound 
reproduction  and  to  check  that  it  is  synchronised  with  the  picture 
and  is,  in  fact,  coming  through  satisfactorily.  Because  of  this  it  is 
essential  that  the  Monitor  speaker  should  be  tapped  into  the 
circuit  at  as  late  a  stage  as  possible  since,  by  this  practice  it  will  be 
most  unlikely  that  the  monitor  speaker  will  function  when  the 
stage  speakers  are  silent,  due  to  some  electrical  fault. 

In  some  theatres  an  auxiliary  main  volume  control  is  located 
within  the  auditorium,  and  is  adjusted  by  an  observer  under  the 
correct  conditions.  Another  system  provides  a  signal  system 
between  the  auditorium  and  the  operating  box  whereby  an  observer 
may  indicate  the  need  for  sound  volume  adjustments.  Usually 


SOUND  REPRODUCTION  279 

both  systems  are  unsatisfactory  unless  operated  by  skilled  observers 
and  it  is  a  much  better  practice  to  make  initial  tests  of  the  best 
conditions,  and  then  to  adjust  the  fader  setting  according  to  the 
instructions  printed  on  the  leader  of  each  film. 

Factors  Affecting  Sound  Quality 

It  is  now  possible  to  survey  the  probable  causes  of  poor  sound 
reproduction  from  a  film  known  to  contain  a  first  class  track. 
These  may  be  briefly  stated  as  follows:  -  (1)  The  sound  reproducing 
equipment.  (2)  The  adjustment  of  the  sound  system.  (3)  The 
screen.  (4)  The  theatre  acoustic  conditions.  (5)  The  maintenance 
of  the  sound  system.  Firstly,  we  have  seen  that  the  reproducing 
equipment  must  be  capable  of  supplying  an  adequate  volume 
range  for  the  hall  it  is  serving.  In  the  early  days  of  sound  film  an 
output  of  12  Watts  was  thought  to  be  quite  adequate.  The  latest 
installations  are  now  capable  of  delivering  as  much  as  150  Watts  of 
undistorted  power  and,  for  realistic  results  which  will  cover 
the  entire  volume  range  from  a  whisper  to  a  battle  scene,  this  range 
is  now  considered  necessary.  In  this  connection  it  is  worth  noting 
the  following  specification,  issued  by  the  S.M.P.E.  and  The 
Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences: -(1)  A  volume 
range  of  from  50  to  60  decibels.  (2)  A  frequency  response  from 
50  to  at  least  8,000  cycles  per  second,  with  provision  to  extend  this 
range  up  to  10,000  cycles  per  second.  (3)  The  stage  loud-speakers 
should  have  a  high  degree  of  efficiency  so  that  the  required  ampli- 
fier capacity  need  not  be  too  great.  The  speaker  system  should 
also  have  correct  angular  distribution  so  that  all  frequencies  are 
properly  distributed  throughout  the  theatre.  (4)  The  sound  head 
should  have  a  'flutter'  content  imperceptible  to  the  ear. 

The  second  probable  cause  of  poor  reproduction  is  incorrect 
sound  system  adjustment.  This  field  covers  the  sound  optical 
system,  the  scanning  mechanism,  the  setting  of  the  amplifier 
response  characteristics  and  loud-speaker  maintenance  and 
adjustment.  In  this  connection  the  S.M.P.E.  and  the  Academy 
of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences  have  produced  a  sound  test 
reel  which  contains  selected  recordings  made  by  all  the  major 
Hollywood  studios.  It  is  therefore  possible  to  adjust  the  equipment 
to  give  the  maximum  average  quality  for  all  types  of  release  prints. 
The  third  cause  of  poor  reproduction  is  the  quality  of  the  screen 
and,  as  we  have  seen  previously,  this  may  be  due  to  the  incorrect 
size  and  number  of  perforations  per  square  inch,  or  it  may  be  due 
to  the  thickness  of  the  material  used.  The  most  common  cause 
of  trouble  with  a  screen  which  is  initially  quite  good  is  usually 


280  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

traceable  to  its  having  been  resurfaced,  to  improve  the  picture 
quality,  and  the  perforations  having  become  closed  up  during  the 
process. 

The  fourth  probable  cause  of  poor  reproduction  is  bad  theatre 
acoustics.  As  we  have  seen  these  may  include  a  high  reverberation 
time,  echo,  resonance  and  parasitic  noises  due  to  auxiliary  equip- 
ment. With  new  theatres,  designed  by  architects  who  specialise  in 
sound  film  production,  many  of  these  defects  are  eliminated.  The 
present  tendency  is  towards  co-ordination  between  the  acoustic 
treatment  of  the  auditorium  and  the  lighting  arrangements,  the 
decorations,  the  air  conditioning  etc.  The  architect  is  therefore 
able  to  arrange  all  these  services  conveniently,  and  also  in  such  a 
manner  that  they  will  assist  in  producing  the  best  acoustic  results. 

Finally,  it  is  important  that,  once  having  obtained  the  best 
possible  reproduction,  regular  servicing  and  inspection  should  be 
carried  out  to  ensure  that  this  condition  is  maintained.  Sound 
quality  normally  falls  off  slowly  and  is  therefore  un-noticed  unless 
actual  measurements  are  made.  The  many  delicate  adjustments 
both  to  the  sound  head  and  the  amplifiers  require  that  all  pro- 
jection staffs  should  be  supplied  with  the  necessary  measuring 
instruments,  flutter  indicators  and  the  standard  sound  test  film 
with  which  to  check  their  adjustments,  and  to  compare  the  results 
with  those  obtained  previously. 

The  Chief  Operator  and  The  Theatre  Manager 
In  conclusion  it  is  obvious  that  the  final  sound  reproduction 
depends  upon  the  ability  of  the  Chief  Operator  and  the  Theatre 
Manager  to  maintain  all  the  equipment  in  first  class  condition  and 
also  to  correctly  interpret  the  instructions  supplied  with  each  film. 
Some  experiments  have  been  made  in  America  where  first-class 
theatre  managers  and  chief  operators  have  been  present  at  the 
original  discussions  on  sound  recording  technique  at  the  studios. 
It  is  thought  that  such  experiments  were  helpful  in  producing  better 
final  reproduction,  and  it  is  possible  that  such  arrangements  will 
be  extended  in  the  future. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  at  least  one  State  in  America  has 
introduced  a  relatively  severe  examination  which  must  be  passed 
by  all  operators  before  they  are  legally  able  to  take  charge  of 
projection  equipment.  These  examinations  are  graded  in  three 
categories,  firstly,  one  for  Junior  or  Third  Operators,  a  more 
advanced  examination  for  Intermediate  or  Second  Operators 
and  a  Final  Examination  for  Chief  Operators.  Since  these  examina- 
tions may  only  be  taken  on  payment  of  a  considerable  entrance 


SOUND   REPRODUCTION  281 

fee  (returnable  to  the  successful  candidate)  and  must  be  taken 
within  certain  time  limits,  the  system  has  been  successful  in  attract- 
ing very  keen  men  to  the  profession  and  also  to  maintain  a  very 
high  degree  of  operating  efficiency. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  a  printed  roll  of  black  and  white 
sound  and  picture  positive  film,  as  supplied  to  the  theatres,  repre- 
sents a  sum  of  between  £30  and  £40,  which  only  accounts  for  the 
initial  cost  of  the  raw  stock,  the  Laboratory  charges  for  printing 
and  processing  and  the  cost  of  distribution,  etc.  The  potential  value 
of  this  reel  of  film,  in  terms  of  box-office  takings  or,  conversely, 
the  probable  loss  due  to  film  damage  and  consequent  delays  in 
replacement,  it  is  a  quantity  which  can  only  be  estimated  by 
taking  an  average  of  many  theatres  and  film  subjects.  However, 
it  is  obvious  that  both  the  actual  and  potential  value  of  a  single 
reel  of  film  is  so  great  that  it  would  be  a  good  investment  to  make 
extensive  training  schemes  available  for  all  operators.  Unfortu- 
nately only  very  few  people  realise  that  modern  sound  projector 
operating  should  be  the  work  of  highly  trained  personnel,  who 
should  have  a  good  background  knowledge  of  electricity,  optics, 
sound  systems  and,  by  no  means  the  least  important,  dramatic 
appreciation  and  a  sense  for  film  presentation. 

Some  people  may  think  the  foregoing  comments  unnecessary 
since,  in  any  case,  both  the  Western  Electric  Company  and  the 
R.C.A.  Company  send  round  service  engineers  at  regular  intervals 
to  inspect  and  adjust  their  equipments.  Whilst  the  author  would 
agree  that  such  maintenance  does  in  fact  keep  to  a  very  high 
standard,  he  still  feels  it  to  be  desirable  to  insist  on  a  high  level  of 
technical  ability  in  the  operating  box  and,  by  this  means,  so  raise 
the  standard  of  this  occupation  to  be  in  keeping  with  its  importance. 
It  cannot  be  too  strongly  emphasized  that  it  is  through  the  work  in 
the  operating  box  that  the  general  public  see  the  ultimate  results 
of  the  whole  Industry's  endeavours. 


CHAPTER  10 

THE 
REDUCTION   PRINTING   PROCESS 


General  Considerations 

The  so-called  'sub-standard'  films  were  introduced  on  a  large 
scale  in  the  early  nineteen-twenties  with  the  intention  of  making 
cinematography  available  to  the  general  public  in  a  simple  form 
and  without  the  need  for  either  specialised  equipment  or  knowledge. 
From  the  outset  certain  types  of  enthusiasts  developed  their 
interest  to  something  rather  more  than  that  which  the  basic  pro- 
visions were  designed  to  meet.  This  naturally  stimulated  the 
sub-standard  Industry  and  brought  about  two  conditions:  Firstly, 
the  manufacturers  realised  that  any  development  work  which  they 
may  put  into  the  process  would  be  well  repaid  and,  secondly,  the 
users  of  the  films  and  equipment  became  automatically  divided 
into  three  main  groups. 

The  first  group  of  people  were  those  who  remained  content  to 
use  the  'amateur  movie'  as  it  existed  and  for  whom,  originally,  it 
was  intended.  The  second  group  were  those  people  who  became 
interested  in  the  technicalities  of  motion  pictures,  both  from  the 
mechanical  and  chemical  aspects  and  also  from  the  point  of  view 
of  producing  worth-while  films  of  some  definite  entertainment 
value.  The  third  group  consisted  of  those  people  who  realised  the 
potential  value  of  sub-standard  cinematography  as  a  medium 
through  which  to  promote  education,  propaganda,  salesmanship 
and  industrial  training.  This  final  point  is  demonstrated  by  the 
fact  that  the  Kodak  Company  marketed  in  England  an  instrument 
known  as  'The  Business  Kodascope'  as  early  as  1932. 

The  uses  to  which  substandard  and,  particularly  16-mm  films 
have  been  put  since  their  introduction  have  so  completely  changed 
from  the  original  conceptions  that  many  people  now  object 
to  the  term  'sub-standard'  on  the  grounds  that  it  implies  that 

282 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS  283 

films  of  these  sizes  are  necessarily  inferior  to  those  made  on  the 
studio  width  of  35-mm.  In  certain  cases  this  argument  is  true  and, 
therefore,  could  be  true  in  the  majority  of  cases.  It  is  interesting 
to  note  that  the  B.K.S.  has  officially  adopted  the  term  'narrow 
gauge'  in  preference  to  'sub-standard'.  Unfortunately,  the  speed 
with  which  the  demand  for  16-mm  films  of  various  types  has 
grown  has,  in  the  majority  of  cases,  outstripped  the  technical  cap- 
abilities of  those  responsible  for  their  production.  However,  it 
has  recently  been  announced  by  several  of  the  foremost  studios 
that  they  are  interested  not  only  in  the  making  of  reduction 
printed  copies  of  their  feature  productions,  but  also  in  shooting 
some  of  their  original  work  with  film  of  the  16-mm  gauge.  This 
change  in  thought  from  the  original  conceptions  to  those  now  held 
may  be  accounted  for  by  several  notable  achievements  within  the 
Industry. 

From  the  film  manufacturers  point  of  view  the  products  have 
steadily  increased  in  photographic  quality,  speed,  resolution  and 
mechanical  accuracy.  By  mechanical  accuracy  is  meant  a  higher 
standard  of  perforating  and,  therefore,  picture  steadiness,  and  a 
more  stable  film  support  with  smaller  dimensional  changes  after 
processing  and  during  the  useful  projection  life  of  the  film.  In  the 
field  of  equipment  the  Eastman  Kodak  'Special'  camera  was  for 
many  years  the  only  model  intentionally  designed  for  the  serious 
worker.  Because  of  its  high  price,  and  also  the  limited  scope  of 
the  other  equipment,  many  attachments  and  'gadgets'  appeared  on 
the  market  which,  if  handled  intelligently,  were  capable  of  pro- 
ducing a  variety  of  effects  which  had  previously  only  been  possible 
with  the  expensive  Kodak  'Special'  camera  or  with  35-mm  equip- 
ment. Since  these  attachments  were,  at  best,  only  a  compromise, 
and  did  not  produce  the  desired  result  either  as  conveniently  or  by 
the  same  methods  as  the  studio  equipment,  many  of  the  more 
serious  workers  turned  to  the  possibility  of  first  producing  their 
films  with  35-mm  equipment,  and  with  all  the  processes  of  the 
studio  at  their  command,  and  then  to  employ  some  form  of  reducing 
equipment  which  would  print  a  16-mm  positive  copy  from  the 
original  35-mm  negatives. 

This  line  of  thought  produced  the  now  familiar  Optical  Reduc- 
tion Printing  equipment  which  was  originally  used  to  make  16-mm 
copies  from  35-mm  silent  feature  films.  The  early  16-mm  film 
libraries  contained  many  reduced  feature  films,  produced  in  this 
manner.  With  the  introduction  of  16-mm  sound  projectors  further 
equipment  was  designed  to  enable  the  sound  track  to  be  reduced  in 
a  similar  manner,  and  the  16-mm  Sound  Film  Libraries  quickly 


284  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

came  into  being.  The  period  just  before  the  outbreak  of  war  in 
1939  is  of  particular  interest  and  it  is  worth  while  to  consider 
briefly  the  state  of  affairs  which  existed  in  England  at  that  time. 
Several  large  and  well-stocked  16-mm  sound  film  libraries  existed, 
notably  that  of  the  Gaumont-British  Company,  and  a  number  of 
professionally  manufactured  16-mm  sound  projectors  had  gained 
popularity  -  amongst  these  should  be  mentioned  the  Gebescope, 
The  British  Acoustic  and  the  B.T.H.  models.  Many  amateur 
enthusiasts  had  converted  existing  silent  projectors  to  reproduce 
sound  films  and,  whilst  a  number  of  these  showed  the  very  high 
standard  of  workmanship  associated  with  model  engineering,  the 
majority  of  such  conversions  left  much  to  be  desired  -  particularly 
by  the  film  libraries  -  from  the  point  of  view  of  film  transport  and 
freedom  from  scratching. 

However,  this  pre-war  state  of  affairs  had  developed  the  sound- 
film  reduction  process  to  such  a  stage  that  a  number  of  trade 
processing  Laboratories  had  installed  high-class  optical  reduction 
equipment  and  were  engaged  in  producing  16-mm  sound  films 
from  35-mm  feature  and  educational  original  subjects.  During  the 
war  these  Laboratories  developed  both  their  equipment  and 
technique  to  a  much  higher  standard  and  as  a  direct  result  of 
demands  made  by  the  Forces.  It  was  quickly  realised  at  the 
beginning  of  the  war  that  two  main  types  of  16-mm  sound  film 
would  be  required.  Firstly,  the  greater  speed  and  accuracy  with 
which  the  details  of  technical  equipment  and  processes  could  be 
taught  through  the  medium  of  the  talking  picture  produced  the 
demand  for  16-mm  educational  and  instructional  films  in  quan- 
tities both  greater  than  previously  anticipated  and  greater  than 
the  existing  equipment  had  been  designed  to  handle.  Secondly,  it 
was  quickly  realised  that  16-mm  sound  films  of  the  'feature  film* 
category  provided  a  convenient  and  portable  means  with  which  to 
supply  entertainment  near  to  the  fighting  zones.  Because  of  this, 
copyright  regulations  (which  had  previously  restricted  reduction 
printing  to  films  considered  to  be  out  of  date  from  the  cinema 
'box-office'  point  of  view)  were  relaxed  to  enable  the  very  latest 
studio  feature  films  to  be  printed  onto  16-mm  sound  stock  for 
restricted  circulation  within  the  armed  Forces. 

The  exceptional  advancement  given  to  the  reduction  printing 
Industry  as  a  result  of  the  war  did  far  more  to  establish  16-mm 
sound  films  than  could  have  been  accomplished  in  a  much  longer 
period  during  peace  time.  Thousands  of  16-mm  sound  projectors 
were  made  for  and  used  by  the  Forces,  great  numbers  of 
people  were  introduced  to  16-mm  sound  pictures  for  the  first 


THE  REDUCTION   PRINTING   PROCESS  285 

time  and  the  possibilities  of  this  form  of  talking  picture  could  be 
assessed  with  much  greater  accuracy.  As  with  most  comparatively 
new  processes  which  are  rushed  into  wide  use  by  force  of  unusual 
conditions,  the  quality  of  the  bulk  of  16-mm  sound  films  was  not 
representative  of  the  best  which  may  be  expected  from  this  process. 
Because  of  this,  the  advancement  produced  by  the  war  may  not 
prove  to  be  as  great  as  was  at  first  imagined.  Although  many  more 
people  have  now  had  an  opportunity  to  see  and  hear  16-mm  sound 
films,  it  is  to  be  expected  that  a  large  number  will  have  formed  a 
definitely  adverse  opinion  of  their  capabilities  and  that  such  an 
opinion  may  take  a  very  long  time  to  overcome. 

It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  progress,  similar  to  that  made  in 
the  field  of  reduction  printing,  has  also  been  made  with  the 
systems  of  direct  16-mm  sound  film  production.  Although  sufficient 
equipment  is  not  available  at  present  to  compare  the  two  processes 
on  equal  grounds,  it  is  obvious  that,  when  such  a  comparison  can  be 
made,  the  direct  16-mm  systems  will  offer  many  advantages  over 
the  reduction  printing  process.  Developments  in  Commercial  and 
B.B.C.  Television  have  made  great  strides  in  recent  years  and  have 
resulted  in  at  least  50%  of  all  news  programmes  originating  on 
direct  16-mm  sound  and  picture  equipment.  As  mentioned  pre- 
viously, several  major  studios  are  now  interested  in  the  design  of 
16-mm  equipment  capable  of  similar  high  accuracy  since,  with  the 
smaller  gauge  film,  many  advantages  such  as  portability,  ease  of 
manipulation  and  low  running  costs  suggest  the  possibility  of 
securing  effects  and  locations  hitherto  unobtainable  with  the 
35-mm  process. 

The  position  of  sub-standard  cinematography  in  its  broadest 
sense  may  therefore  be  classified  into  the  following  main  groups:  - 
(1)  16-mm  sound  films -these  may  be  produced  by  the  direct 
method  of  recording  sound  and  picture  on  films  of  this  size  or, 
alternatively,  by  first  recording  on  35-mm  films  and  afterwards 
employing  reduction  printing  equipment  to  produce  the  final  1 6-mm 
sound  and  picture  positive  copies.  (2)  16-mm  silent  films -these 
may  also  be  produced  by  the  direct  or  reduction  printing  processes 
and,  in  common  with  the  16-mm  sound  films,  may  employ  either 
reversal  or  the  negative-to-positive  copying  methods.  (3)  9  •  5-mm 
silent  films  -  these  are  more  usually  produced  by  the  direct  methods 
although  a  great  quantity  of  reduction  printing  work  has  been 
done  with  this  type  of  film.  (4)  8-mm  silent  films  -  by  far  the  greater 
majority  of  these  films  are  produced  by  the  direct  methods  although, 
here  again,  reduction  printing  methods  are  available  and  are  gaining 
considerable  popularity. 


286 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


16mm 
SOUND 
FILM 


15mm 
SOUND 
FILM 


-<□ 


16mm 
SOUND 
FILM 


16mm 

SOUND 

FILM 


□ 


□ 


□> 


□ 


□ 


□> 


16  mm 
SILENT 
FILM 


16mm 
SILENT 
FILM 


16mm 
SILENT 
FILM 


16mm 
SILENT 
FILM 


□ 


□ 


□ 


Fig.  126. — Narrow-gauge  film  dimensions. 


Note:  it  is  well  realised  that  9*5  and  8-mm  films  have  been 
produced  with  sound  track  accompaniment;  also  that  such 
recording  methods  as  the  modern  magnetic  systems  make  possible 
the  addition  of  a  second  length  of  film  or  'tape'  or  applying  a 
magnetic  stripe  carrying  an  auxiliary  sound  record. 

The  picture  and  film  sizes  used  in  each  case  are  seen  in  Figure 
126.  Sixteen  millimeter  sound  film  is  essentially  similar  to  silent 
film  of  the  same  size  with  respect  to  width,  perforation  size  and  pitch 
and  picture  dimensions,  the  main  difference  being  that  the  sound 
film  is  only  perforated  along  one  side  of  the  picture  -  the  other 
side  being  left  complete  and  providing  space  in  which  to  accom- 
modate the  sound  track.  The  dimensions  of  the  picture  in  both 
cases  are  as  follows:  -  Height  7-47-mm  and  Width  10-41-mm. 
The  dimensions  of  the  picture  produced  by  the  9  •  5-mm  film  are, 
Height  6 -5-mm  and  Width  8 -5-mm  -it  should  be  noted  that  the 
difference  in  size  between  16-mm  and  9 -5-mm  pictures  is  not 
as  great  as  the  difference  between  the  film  widths.  The  dimensions 
of  pictures  produced  on  film  8-mm  in  width  are,  Height  3-51-mm 
and  Width  4-80-mm.  It  must  be  remembered  that  standard 
dimensions  have  been  recommended  by  the  Society  of  Motion 
Picture  Engineers  which  cover  the  camera  aperture,  the  printer 
aperture  and  the  projector  aperture  and  that  the  sizes  of  these 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS  287 

apertures  decrease  in  the  order  given.  The  dimensions  quoted 
previously  refer  to  the  camera  apertures. 

Reduction  Picture  Printing 

The  present  work  is  mainly  concerned  with  the  production  of 
16-mm  films  of  a  technical  quality  as  nearly  as  possible  equal  to 
those  produced  with  35-mm  equipment.  Because  of  this  it  is  most 
convenient  to  consider  firstly  that  process  which  is  most  widely 
used  to  produce  high  quality  results  at  the  moment  and,  as  we  have 
seen,  such  a  process  is  known  as  Reduction  Printing. 

Before  considering  the  actual  equipment  it  will  be  as  well  to 
establish  the  optimum  conditions  which  must  be  maintained  through- 
out the  process.  The  picture  quality  and,  particularly,  the  mechani- 
cal steadiness,  which  is  acceptable  with  'home'  projection,  leaves 
much  to  be  desired  when  magnified  to  the  greater  screen  sizes 
employed  when  16-mm  films  are  used  for  purposes  similar  to  and, 
to  some  extent,  in  competition  with  35-mm  pictures.  Picture 
unsteadiness  is,  of  course,  most  noticeable  to  observers  following, 
for  example,  the  operation  of  intricate  mechanisms,  outline 
drawings  and  the  many  types  of  diagram  films  used  for  visual 
education. 

It  would  seem  likely  that,  with  the  addition  of  sound  to  16-mm 
films  and  the  improvements  made  in  Laboratory  technique,  the 
opinion  gradually  developed  that  16-mm  films  should  be  capable 
of  screen  quality  equal  to  that  obtained  with  35-mm  films 
under  comparable  conditions.  Whilst  it  is  agreed  that  the  existing 
average  screen  quality  should  be  greatly  improved,  it  can  be 
readily  proved  that,  even  by  applying  to  the  entire  16-mm  process 
working  tolerances  as  close  as  those  used  with  35-mm  films  and 
equipment,  it  is  fundamentally  impossible  to  obtain  absolute 
equality  between  both  systems.  The  following  comparison  will 
indicate  the  magnitude  of  variation  in  screen  picture  position 
which  may  be  tolerated  in  each  case  and,  although  such  a  com- 
parison only  deals  with  one  specific  problem  -  that  of  picture 
unsteadiness  -  it  is  also  representative  of  the  differences  which  may 
be  expected  when  other  aspects  of  the  two  film  sizes  are  compared. 

Firstly,  it  is  necessary  to  establish  the  magnitude  of  screen 
picture  unsteadiness  which  may  be  tolerated  when  35-mm  films  are 
projected.  Since  it  is  not  convenient  to  measure  the  percentage 
of  actual  picture  movement  at  the  screen  surface,  tolerances  are 
always  placed  upon  the  motion  between  successive  pictures  or 
frames  at  the  projection  aperture.  The  following  tolerances  have 
been  recommended  by  Messrs.  Tuttle  and  Reid  in  a  paper  to  the 


288 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

35mm  projection 


16mm  protection 


.,,!■    37*" 


comparison  between  equal  degrees  of 
movement  in  film  positioned  in  16mm  and 
35  mm  projector  gates  and  magnified  by 
equal  amounts. 


Fig.  127. — 35-mm  and  16-mm  projection  compared  at  equal  magnification. 


Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers  (see  bibliography):  (1)  That 
the  unsteadiness  of  the  centre  of  the  picture,  measured  at  the 
projector  gate,  shall  not  exceed  plus  or  minus  0-  0005-inch,  that 
is,  a  total  jump  of  0-001 -inch.  (2)  That  the  unsteadiness  of  the 
corners  of  the  picture,  again  measured  in  the  projector  gate,  shall 
not  exceed  plus  or  minus  0-001-inch,  that  is,  a  total  jump  of  0-002- 
inch.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  corners  of  the  picture  are  permitted 
a  movement  twice  that  which  may  be  tolerated  at  the  centre  of  the 
picture  -  when  it  is  remembered  that  picture  movement  need  not 
necessarily  be  either  purely  vertical  or  horizontal,  but  may  appear 
to  rotate  about  the  centre  of  the  screen  or  about  one  corner,  it  will 
be  realised  that  such  tolerances  are  applicable  in  practice.  The 
edges  of  the  picture  are  permitted  a  tolerance  bigger  than  the 
centre  since  it  is  obvious  that  movement  away  from  the  centre  of 
interest  will  not  be  so  apparent  to  the  eye. 

Assuming  that  the  foregoing  conditions  exist  when  a  given  film 
is  projected  with  machines  operating  in  a  theatre  of  average  size, 
the  actual  unsteadiness,  as  experienced  by  the  audience,  will  be  as 
shown  at  'A',  Figure  127.  This  diagram  is  based  upon  the  assump- 
tion that  a  screen  picture  of  24-ft  by  18-ft  is  obtained  at  a  'throw' 
of  146-ft  when  a  5-inch  projection  lens  is  used.  Thus  a  magnifica- 
tion of  approximately  350  times  is  obtained.  Since  the  centre  of 
the  picture,  in  the  projector  gate,  is  permitted  a  movement  of 
0-001-inch,  this  will  appear  as  a  movement  of  0-350-inch  on  the 
screen.  (For  the  sake  of  illustration  this  amount  has  been  obviously 
enlarged  in  the  diagram). 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS  289 

The  seating  in  any  theatre  should  be  arranged  so  that  good 
perspective  is  maintained  both  at  the  nearest  and  at  the  most 
distant  viewing  positions.  To  ensure  this  condition  the  Projection 
Practice  Committee  of  The  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers 
have  made  the  following  recommendations: -(1)  That  the  most 
distant  seat  shall  be  no  more  than  six  times  the  screen  width,  or 
in  this  case,  144-ft  from  the  screen.  (2)  That  the  nearest  seat  shall  be 
no  less  than  0-87  times  the  screen  width,  or  21-ft  from  the  screen 
in  this  case.  The  position  of  the  average  audience  and,  therefore, 
the  most  important  position  to  be  considered  at  present,  will 
therefore  be  81 -ft  from  the  screen  under  projection  conditions  as 
previously  stated. 

Now  let  us  assume  for  the  moment  that  it  is  possible  to  obtain 
the  same  degree  of  accuracy  in  positioning  the  16-mm  film  in  the 
gate  of  a  good  quality  16-mm  projector.  Such  an  assumption  must 
obviously  pre-suppose  that  all  previous  operations,  such  as  the 
original  camera  work,  film  printing,  etc.,  are  also  held  to  an 
accuracy  equal  to  that  obtained  with  35-mm  processes.  This  being 
so,  it  should  be  possible  to  enlarge  the  16-mm  picture  to  the  same 
degree  without  experiencing  any  loss  of  photographic  quality. 
It  must  be  realised  that  enlargement  to  the  same  degree  as  that 
obtained  with  the  35-mm  film  does  not  mean  enlargement  to  a 
similar  screen  size.  The  35-mm  film  was  magnified  350  times  and, 
therefore,  it  is  only  reasonable  to  magnify  the  16-mm  frame  by 
350  times  also  if  similar  photographic  quality  is  to  be  maintained. 

Such  a  magnification  will  produce  a  screen  picture  of  11-ft 
by  8-ft  3-inches  at  a  'throw'  of  73-ft  when  a  2-5-inch  projection 
lens  is  used.  This  layout  is  then  seen  in  diagram  'B',  Figure  127. 
The  seating  in  the  auditorium  must,  of  course,  once  more  comply 
with  the  recommended  practice  and,  therefore,  the  most  distant 
seat  will  be  six  times  the  screen  width,  or  66-ft  from  the  screen,  the 
nearest  seat  will  be  0-  87  times  the  screen  width,  or  9  •  5-ft  from  the 
screen  whilst  the  most  important  position,  that  of  the  average 
audience,  will  be  37*  5-ft  from  the  screen. 

It  is  now  important  to  realise  that  if,  in  both  the  35mm  and 
the  16-mm  projectors,  a  total  movement  of  0-001 -inch  exists 
between  the  successive  positions  of  the  frames,  when  measured 
at  the  projector  gate,  the  resultant  movement  on  the  screens  will  be 
equal  in  both  cases.  This  condition  occurs  since,  although  the 
frame  sizes  are  different,  the  errors  in  positioning,  and  also  the 
degree  of  magnification,  are  identical.  The  screen  movement  is, 
therefore,  once  more  indicated  by  a  shaded  section  in  diagram 
'B'  representing  a  vertical  shift  of  0-350-inch  and  equal  to  that 

19 


290  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

produced  on  Ike  screen  in  the  35-mm  theatre,  as  shown  in  diagram 
*A\  In  terms  of  angular  rotation  as  experienced  by  the  average 
viewer,  the  unsteadiness  experienced  in  case  'A'  will  tend  to  make 
the  eye  move  through  1  •  2  minutes  (just  over  1  /60th  of  one  degree) 
when  'resolving'  this  vibration.  In  case  'B'  screen  movement  of 
equal  magnitude  will  tend  to  make  the  eye  move  through  2-6 
minutes,  or  more  than  twice  that  encountered  in  case  'A'.  A  com- 
parison between  the  two  important  angles  is  shown  in  diagram 
'C,  Figure  127,  and  it  should  be  obvious  that  the  average  16-mm 
viewer  will  experience  greater  picture  unsteadiness  than  the 
average  35-mm  viewer. 

The  arrangement  of  the  seating  is,  of  course,  dependent  upon 
the  picture  size,  regardless  of  the  film  size  or  projection  apparatus, 
and  is  so  arranged  to  ensure  that  the  picture  will  subtend  the  same 
angle  to  the  average  viewer  in  all  cases.  If,  therefore,  picture  un- 
steadiness is  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  the  total  picture  height, 
it  is  seen  that,  in  the  case  of  the  35-mm  film,  this  amounts  to  0  •  1 62  % 
whereas,  for  the  16-mm  films,  this  figure  increases  to  as  much  as 
0-353%. 

If,  therefore,  it  were  possible  to  produce  16-mm  reduction 
prints  with  a  final  accuracy  equal  to  that  recommended  for  35-mm 
release  prints,  and  also  to  obtain  a  projector  as  accurate  as  a 
professional  machine,  the  resultant  screen  picture,  when  viewed 
from  the  correct  distances,  would  show  greater  unsteadiness  than 
the  35-mm  picture  viewed  under  similar  circumstances  and  pro- 
duced to  equal  accuracy.  The  unsteadiness  of  the  16-mm  picture 
would  exceed  that  of  the  35-mm  picture  as  353  exceeds  162,  that  is, 
it  would  be  2- 1  times  greater.  This  amount  is,  of  course,  the  ratio 
between  the  height  of  a  35-mm  projector  aperture  and  a  16-mm 
projector  aperture.  On  first  consideration  it  may  be  thought 
possible  to  overcome  this  difference  by  placing  the  audience  at  a 
greater  distance  from  the  screen.  Quite  apart  from  reducing  the 
apparent  size  of  the  picture,  such  a  move  would  require  placing 
the  audience  2-1  times  further  from  the  screen,  that  is,  in  the 
example  given,  extending  the  distance  between  the  screen  and  the 
closest  observer  to  20-feet. 

Clearly  the  foregoing  suggestion  is  quite  impracticable  and,  as 
a  basis  of  consideration,  a  screen  movement  of  0-350-inch  at  a 
magnification  of  350  times  must  be  accepted,  assuming  no  losses  of 
steadiness  in  the  projection  mechanism.  In  other  words,  we  must 
aim  to  print  successive  pictures  onto  the  16-mm  film  within  a  total 
tolerance  of  0-001 -inch,  or  plus  and  minus  0-0005-inch,  when 
measured  at  the  centre  of  the  picture  area. 


THE  REDUCTION   PRINTING   PROCESS 


291 


Methods  of  Picture  Reduction  Printing 

Before  considering  any  of  the  machines  which  are  used  to  produce 
16-mm  reduction  prints  it  will  be  as  well  to  realise  the  nature  of  the 
printing  process  involved.  Figure  128  shows  the  relative  sizes  of 
both  35-mm  and  16-mm  frames  and  their  positions  relative  to 
the  perforations.  The  35-mm  camera  aperture  is  0-868-inches  by 
0-  631  -inches  but,  to  ensure  that  all  this  aperture  is  printed  onto  the 
16-mm  film,  the  35-mm  printer  aperture  is  O-890-inches  by  0-662- 
inches,  that  is,  an  increase  on  the  camera  aperture  height  of  0-016- 
inches  at  the  top  and  bottom  frame  boundaries,  and  an  increase  on 
the  aperture  width  of  0-  011-inches  at  each  side  of  the  frame. 
The  reduction  ratio  is  approximately  2-15  and  thereby  produces 
a  16-mm  picture  area  of  0-402-inches  by  0-306-inches.  It  should 
be  noticed  that  the  black  boundaries  at  the  top  and  bottom  of 
the  frame  are  slightly  larger  than  the  distance  0-  300-inches  between 
the  centre  line  of  the  perforation  pitches,  thereby  ensuring  that  no 
clear  film  will  exist  between  successive  frames. 

A  most  important  point  to  realise  is  that  the  distance  between 
the  vertical  camera  aperture  boundaries  on  the  35-mm  film  is 
0-  117-inches,  whereas  a  similar  distance  on  the  16-mm  film  is 
only  0-008-inches.  The  ratio  between  these  two  dimensions  is 
approximately  14-5  and  not  2-15  (the  optical  reduction  ratio). 
Because  of  this  it  is  not  possible  to  use  reduction  printing  machinery 
in  which  both  films  move  continuously  since  the  ratio  between 
the  two  picture  areas  is  not  equal  to  the  ratio  of  the  spaces  between 
those  areas.  A  further  point  to  remember  is  that,  whereas  the  1 6-mm 
picture  is  symmetrical  about  the  centre  line  of  the  film,  the  35-mm 
picture  is  off-set  with  respect  to  the  centre  line  in  order  to  provide 
sufficient  space  in  which  to  accommodate  the  sound  track.  Because 


.asm 


CENTRE  - 
LINE  Of 
PS.FI.FCXUTONS 


Fig.  128.— 35-mm  and  16-mm  picture  areas. 


292 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


P 

□ 

B- 


Q 


07S' 


-HK- 


— IK- 


Fig.  129. — 35-mm  and  16-mm  sound  track  areas. 

of  this  fact  the  optical  system  within  the  reduction  printing  equip- 
ment will  be  symmetrically  located  about  the  centre  line  of  each 
picture  area  but  will  not  be  symmetrical  with  respect  to  the 
35-mm  film  gate. 

Reducing  the  Sound  Track 

Turning  now  to  the  requirements  of  the  sound  track,  we  find  that 
the  ratio  of  35-mm  and  16-mm  track  widths  is  different  from 
that  of  the  track  lengths  and  that  both  are  different  from  the  ratio 
between  the  picture  areas.  Figure  129  shows  the  relative  sizes  of 
the  35-mm  and  16-mm  printed  areas  within  which  all  sound 
tracks  should  be  located.  It  should  be  realised  that,  once  again, 
three  dimensional  standards  are  applied  to  the  width  of  all  sound 
tracks  ,  the  first  being  known  as  the  width  of  the  printed  area,  the 
second  as  the  width  of  the  sound  record  itself  and  the  third  the 
width  of  the  scanned  area.  The  width  of  the  printed  area  is  always 
the  largest  dimension  and  is  the  only  one  given  in  this  figure. 

We  see  therefore  that  the  reduction  across  the  track  width 
is  from  0-  100-inches,  in  the  case  of  35-mm  sound  tracks,  down  to 
O-085-inches,  in  the  case  of  16-mm  tracks,  that  is,  a  reduction  to 
85  %.  The  reduction  along  the  length  of  the  track  is,  of  course, 
equal  to  the  ratio  between  the  pitch  of  successive  frames  and,  as 
seen  from  Figure  129,  this  is  equal  to  the  ratio  between  0-75-inch, 
in  the  case  of  the  35-mm  frame,  and  0-30-inches,  in  the  case  of  the 
16-mm  frame,  that  is,  a  reduction  to  40%.  These  figures  lead  to 
two  very  important  conclusions,  firstly  that  the  sound  track  must 
be  reduced  on  a  continuous  printer  whereas  pictures  must  be 
reduced  by  an  intermittent  or  'step'  printer.  These  reduction 
ratios  may  be  conveniently  collected  together  as  follows:  - 

(1)    The  dimensions  of  the  16-mm  printed  picture  are  46-5% 
those  of  the  35-mm  picture. 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS 


293 


(2)  The  width  of  the  16-mm  sound  track  is  85%  that  of  the 
35-mm  track  width. 

(3)  The  length  of  the  16-mm  sound  track  is  40%  that  of  the 
35-mm  track  length. 

Because  of  these  factors,  and  also  bearing  in  mind  earlier  con- 
siderations, the  main  points  regarding  the  reduction  printing 
processes  may  also  be  summarised  as  follows:  - 

(1)  Due  to  the  difference  in  the  separation  between  frame 
boundaries  of  35-mm  pictures  and  those  of  16-mm  pictures, 
only  intermittent  or  'step'  printers  can  be  used  for  picture 
reduction  work. 

(2)  The  sound  track  must  be  reduced  by  a  continuous  process 
and  this  operation  must  be  performed  by  a  machine  cap- 
able of  reducing  the  length  of  the  record  by  a  greater 
amount  than  it  reduces  the  width. 

Optical  Reduction  Picture  Printers 

One  of  the  most  simple  forms  of  'straight'  optical  reduction 
printing  machines  used  to  intermittently  print  16-mm  pictures 
from  35-mm  negatives  is  seen  in  schematic  side  elevation  in  Figure 
130.  In  this  figure  light  is  focused  onto  the  objective  lens  'O'  by 
means  of  a  condenser  lens  'C\  This  condenser  must  be  of  such  a 
focal  length  that  the  cone  of  light  at  the  plane  of  the  35-mm 


Figure  130. — Optical  reduction  picture  printer  layout. 


294  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

picture  aperture  will  be  just  large  enough  to  adequately  cover  this 
aperture,  thereby  maintaining  an  evenly  illuminated  area,  without 
being  so  large  that  the  general  intensity  of  illumination  is  below 
the  possible  maximum.  At  the  same  time  the  cone  of  light  must 
not  on  any  account  be  smaller  than  the  diagonal  of  the  35-mm 
aperture  since,  under  such  conditions,  the  illumination  would  fall 
off  or  be  reduced  at  the  edges  of  this  aperture.  An  image  of  the 
picture  on  the  35-mm  film  'F'  is  reduced  and  focussed  onto  the 
16-mm  film  'G'  by  means  of  the  objective  lens  'O'.  This  lens  must 
be  of  such  a  focal  length  that  the  height  of  the  35-mm  'object' 
is  reduced  by  2-15  when  sharply  focused  in  the  image  plane  at 
the  16-mm  aperture,  that  is,  a  reduction  to  46  %  of  the  original  size. 

Shutter  'S'  is  an  opaque  segment  of  a  circular  disc  and  is  rotated 
so  as  to  interrupt  the  light  beam  during  that  part  of  the  cycle  when 
both  films  are  being  moved  forward.  This  shutter  therefore 
rotates  once  during  each  cycle  of  operations  and  during  which  one 
frame  is  printed  onto  the  16-mm  film.  In  this  outline  drawing  the 
two  films  are  moved  downwards  by  simple  link  claw  mechanisms 
shown  at  'J'  and  'K\  With  such  mechanisms  the  combination  of 
the  circular  motion  at  the  centre  of  the  upright  member,  caused 
by  the  rotation  of  an  eccentrically  mounted  pin  to  which  this 
member  is  attached,  and  the  oscillatory  action  of  the  lower  ex- 
tremity of  this  same  member,  produces  a  'D'  shaped  motion  at  the 
upper  extremity,  that  is,  at  the  claw  tips  which  engage  with  the 
film  perforations.  It  is  the  straight  part  of  this  'D'  motion  which 
is  employed  to  move  the  films  forward. 

The  cycle  of  operations  is  therefore  as  follows:  -  Assuming  that, 
in  the  position  shown,  both  claws  'J'  and  'K'  are  engaged  with  the 
35-mm  and  16-mm  films  respectively  and  are,  in  fact,  in  the 
process  of  moving  these  films  downwards,  shutter  'S'  will  then  be 
in  such  a  position  that  the  light  beam  is  interrupted  and,  in  con- 
sequence, the  16-mm  film  is  not  receiving  any  exposure.  The  claw 
tips  are  therefore  travelling  down  the  straight  section  of  their  'D* 
shaped  path.  On  reaching  the  lowest  point  in  their  downward 
travel  the  claw  tips  will  disengage  from  the  films  which  will,  of 
course,  then  come  under  the  influence  of  the  tension  between  the 
pressure  pad  and  gate  sections  forming  the  channels  through 
which  the  films  travel  past  the  projecting  and  exposing  planes  and 
in  which  the  printing  apertures  are  formed.  By  this  means  the 
films  are  held  stationary  during  that  part  of  the  cycle  which  follows. 

The  segment  shutter  'S'  will  by  this  time  have  rotated  to  such  a 
position  that  the  35-mm  aperture  is  about  to  be  revealed  and  the 
exposure  of  the  16-mm  film  is  about  to  take  place.  During  that  part 


THE   REDUCTION   PRINTING   PROCESS  295 

of  the  cycle  when  exposure  is  in  progress  both  films  remain 
stationary  within  their  respective  gates,  the  segment  shutter  con- 
tinues to  rotate,  but  it  is  of  such  dimensions  that  the  free  passage 
of  light  between  the  two  films  is  not  interrupted  during  this  period. 
Whilst  exposure  is  in  progress  the  claw  mechanisms  'J*  and  'K' 
are  also  in  motion  and  the  upper  claws  tips  are  tracing  out  the  curved 
section  of  their  'D'  shaped  path  and,  by  so  doing,  the  tips  will 
eventually  reach  a  position  at  the  top  of  the  straight  stroke  and  be 
in  readiness  to  engage  with  the  film  perforations  once  more  and  to 
advance  the  film  by  a  distance  equal  to  the  height  of  one  picture. 

Just  before  the  claw  tips  re-enter  the  film  perforations  or, 
in  some  designs,  whilst  the  pins  are  in  the  process  of  so  entering, 
the  shutter  interrupts  the  light  beam  between  the  two  apertures 
and  so  protects  the  16-mm  stock  from  further  exposure  during  the 
'pull-down'  or  shift  period.  To  isolate  this  intermittent  film  motion 
from  the  film  feed  and  take-up  spools  constant  speed  feeding  and 
hold-back  sprocket  wheels  are  employed  at  'M'  and  *N'  respectively. 
These  sprockets  cause  free  loops  to  be  formed  both  above  and 
below  the  film  gates  by  which  the  varying  film  motion  may  be 
accommodated.  The  unprinted  35-mm  negative  is  mounted  on  the 
upper  left  hand  supply  spool  as  shown  in  this  arrangement,  whilst 
the  unexposed  16-mm  positive  stock  is  mounted  on  the  upper 
right  hand  supply  spool.  Both  films  are  taken  up  on  separate  but 
similar  spools  as  indicated  at  'Q'  and  drive  to  these  spools  is  usually 
through  some  form  of  slipping  clutch  or  frictional  pad  device  to 
provide  a  convenient  and  automatic  speed  change  as  the  diameter 
of  the  film  rolls  increases. 

The  foregoing  description  is  only  intended  to  convey  the  general 
principles  of  the  straighforward  optical  reduction  printing  mech- 
anism. In  general,  three  main  variations  of  these  principles  are  in 
current  use,  these  are,  (1)  Machines  designed  to  print  two 
identical  16-mm  copies  in  one  operation  by  employing  two  object- 
ive lenses  arranged  in  a  similar  manner  to  that  previously  described, 
(2)  Machines  designed  to  print  two  identical  16-mm  copies  by  the 
use  of  a  combination  of  beam-splitting  prisms  and  two  objective 
lenses  and  (3)  Machines  designed  to  print  only  one  16-mm  copy 
at  a  time  but  fitted  with  pilot  pins  to  accurately  locate  the  35-mm 
and  16-mm  films  during  the  exposing  period. 

Twin  16-mm  Head  Optical  Reduction  Printers 
Two  plan  views  of  the  first  type  of  reduction  printing  machines 
mentioned  previously  are  seen  in  Figure  131.  In  both  cases  the 
arrangement  of  the  optical  components  and  the  positions  of  the 


296 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


7"l€  MM  Fl,M"tf 


[caszT] 


e 


Icasc  21 

Fig.  131. — Twin-head  reduction  printer. 

film  gates  are  identical.  The  light  beams  in  the  upper  diagram 
indicate  the  path  of  rays  from  the  lamp  'L',  via  the  condenser  lenses 
'E'  and  to  the  objective  lenses  'G'  and  'FT,  whilst  the  lower  diagram 
indicates  the  path  of  rays  from  the  35-mm  film  'F',  through  the 
two  objective  lenses  and  to  points  of  focus  at  the  plane  of  the  two 
16-mm  films  'A'  and  'B\  Considering  firstly  'case  1',  it  is  important 
to  realise  that  maximum  light  will  be  transmitted  through  each 
objective  lens  only  when  an  image  of  the  lamp  filament  is  formed 
by  the  condenser  lens  at  a  plane  very  near  to  the  rear  surface  of  the 
objective  lenses.  Because  of  this  it  is  usual  to  find  lamps  containing 
two  or  more  vertical  coils  mounted  as  indicated  at  'L\  One  filament 
coil  is  then  brought  to  a  focus  at  'G'  whilst  the  other  is  focussed 
at  "H\  Obviously  this  condition  can  only  be  checked  when  the 
35-mm  film  is  removed  from  the  gate  since  the  granular  structure 
of  the  photographic  emulsion  would  act  as  a  diffusing  medium 
and  would  destroy  the  filament  images  'G'  and  'H\ 

A  further  point  to  realise  is  that  the  maximum  amount  of  light 
will  only  pass  to  lens  'G'  when  rays  'J'  and  'D'  both  pass  through 
the  35-mm  aperture  'F'  and,  similarly,  low  illumination  will  result 
at  point  'FT  unless  rays  "C  and  'K'  also  pass  through  this  aperture. 
As  shown  in  the  diagram,  rays  'J'  and  'K'  are  cut  off  by  the 
aperture  plate  'P'  and,  although  the  intensities  of  the  light  reaching 
each  objective  lens  may  remain  equal  to  each  other,  they  will  be 
considerably  lower  than  the  maximum  possible  intensity.  This  con- 
dition can  only  be  overcome  in  this  design  by  locating  the  35-mm 
film  gate  as  near  as  possible  to  the  condenser  lens  'E*  but,  when 
this  is  done,  it  is  very  important  to  ensure  that  the  condenser 
remains  free  from  dust  and  oil  spots.  It  will  be  appreciated  that 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS  297 

objective  lenses  *G'  and  'H'  have  a  considerable  'depth  of  focus', 
or  ability  to  maintain  reasonable  sharpness  at  the  image  plane 
when  objects  at  slightly  different  distances  to  that  of  the  principle 
focus  come  within  the  field  of  view.  Because  of  this  it  is  difficult 
to  maintain  critical  focus  at  the  plane  of  the  35-mm  film  when 
this  plane  is  close  to  the  condenser  and,  at  the  same  time,  to 
maintain  an  evenly  illuminated  image  free  from  shadows  due  to 
blemishes  on  the  condenser. 

Turning  now  to  the  lower  diagram,  (case  2,  Figure  131),  we  see 
that  a  centre  line  through  the  lamp,  condenser  and  35-mm  aperture 
passes  mid- way  between  the  two  objective  lenses  'G'  and  'H\  This 
condition  is,  of  course,  unavoidable,  and  causes  the  two  images  of 
point  'F'  to  be  displaced  with  respect  to  the  optical  centre  of  each 
objective  lens.  It  is  therefore  usual  to  find  the  objective  lenses 
mounted  at  a  slight  angle  to  the  main  centre  line  of  the  instrument 
and  so  that  a  straight  line,  from  the  centre  of  the  35-mm  aperture 
to  the  centre  of  the  corresponding  16-mm  aperture,  is  coincident 
with  the  optical  centre  line  to  the  objective  lens.  It  is,  of  course, 
theoretically  impossible  to  maintain  critical  image  definition  at  all 
points  within  the  16-mm  apertures  and  usual  practice  is  to  maintain 
optimum  sharpness  at  the  centre  of  the  field.  This  difficulty  becomes 
less  noticeable  if  the  distance  between  the  35-mm  and  16-mm 
apertures  is  small  and  if  objective  lenses  of  correspondingly  shorter 
focal  length  are  employed.  Unfortunately  a  move  of  this  nature 
tends  to  increase  the  depth  of  focus  within  the  system  and, 
as  was  mentioned  previously,  this  may  cause  other  difficulties  if 
the  condenser  lens  is  not  absolutely  clean.  The  optimum  conditions 
are  therefore  a  compromise  between  overall  sharpness  across  the 
image  plane  and  the  shortest  possible  depth  of  focus. 

It  may  be  argued  that  the  depth  of  focus  could  be  reduced  by 
using  lenses  of  higher  aperture  and,  whilst  this  is  true  in  general,, 
it  does  not  apply  when  the  distance  between  the  35-mm  film  and 
the  condenser  lens  is  of  the  order  of  one  inch.  A  further  suggestion, 
which  has  been  used  in  many  machines,  is  to  insert  a  piece  of  opal 
or  ground  glass  between  the  35-mm  film  and  the  condenser.  Opal 
is  usually  rejected  on  the  grounds  that  the  overall  intensity  of 
illumination  is  reduced  by  such  an  amount  that  it  becomes  impos- 
sible to  print  any  but  the  very  'thin'  or  light  negatives.  Ground 
glass  can  only  be  used  to  advantage  if  the  granularity  is  very  fine 
indeed  since,  with  a  course  grained  material,  the  grains  themselves 
would  be  focused  by  the  objective  lens  onto  the  16-mm  film. 

Obviously,  the  only  remaining  solution  is  to  move  the  35-mm 
aperture  away  from  the  condenser  and  towards  the  objective  lens. 


298  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

This  will  undoubtedly  help  to  remove  the  depth-of-focus  problem  - 
particularly  if  a  thin  ground  glass  is  also  employed  near  to  the 
condenser  -  but,  as  we  have  seen  previously,  will  cause  a  reduction 
in  overall  image  brightness.  It  should  therefore  be  apparent  that 
the  optimum  conditions  for  the  most  satisfactory  results  are  a 
compromise  between  the  several  factors  involved  and  it  is  very 
unlikely  that  maximum  efficiency  in  any  one  section  of  the  optical 
system  could  be  obtained  without  reducing  still  further  the 
efficiency  of  other  interdependent  sections. 

Apart  from  these  considerations,  one  of  the  most  troublesome 
difficulties  with  twin-head  reduction  printers  is  to  maintain  equal 
levels  of  exposure  at  both  16-mm  apertures.  Several  factors  may 
cause  one  aperture  to  be  at  a  higher  intensity  than  the  other, 
amongst  them  being  the  following:  -  (1)  Should  the  lamp  be  mis- 
placed or  badly  centred  within  its  envelope  it  may  not  be  possible 
to  obtain  a  filament  image  at  the  centre  of  the  rear  face  of  both 
objective  lenses.  (2)  A  similar  difficulty  may  exist  if  the  focal 
length  of  the  condenser  lens,  or  the  mechanical  separation  between 
the  lamp  filaments,  are  incorrect.  (3)  If  the  objective  lenses  are 
not  accurately  matched  or  if  one  is  at  a  slight  angle  to  the  line 
between  the  centre  of  the  35-mm  and  16-mm  apertures. 

Twin  Head  Beam  Splitting  Systems 

Figure  132  illustrates  the  second  main  type  of  optical  reduction 
printing  machine  whereby  two  identical  16-mm  prints  may  be 
obtained  during  one  operation.  This  figure  shows  a  plan  view  of  the 
main  optical  layout.  As  in  the  previous  case,  it  is  necessary  to 
employ  a  lamp  having  two  vertical  filament  coils  and  to  so  adjust 
the  condenser  lens  that  an  image  of  each  coil  is  focused  at  a  plane 
close  to  the  rear  surface  of  the  corresponding  objective  lenses  'C 
and  'D\  In  the  layout  shown  this  condition  is  fulfilled  by  turning  the 
light  beam  through  something  approaching  90°  by  the  large  right- 
angled  prism  'G'  and,  once  more,  the  accuracy  with  which  these 
filament  images  are  placed  depends  upon  the  power  of  the  condenser 
lens  'E'  and  the  mechanical  separation  of  the  lamp  filament  coils. 
One  group  of  light  rays,  corresponding  to  points  on  the  35-mm 
film,  are  focused  by  lens  'C,  through  prism  T  and  onto  the  16-mm 
film  'A'.  A  similar  group  of  rays  are  focused  by  lens  'D',  through 
prism  *K'  and  onto  the  16-mm  film  'B\ 

The  use  of  prisms  'G',  'J'  and  'K'  make  possible  the  location 
of  all  three  films  on  one  side  of  the  mechanisms  and  greatly 
simplify  the  operating  conditions.  The  layout  of  the  gearing  is 
also  simplified  since  it  is  possible  to  use  one  transmission  shaft  T" 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING   PROCESS 


299 


which  may  supply  driving  power  to  the  three  intermittent  mech- 
anisms used  to  move  the  films  through  the  exposing  apertures.  A 
disc  shutter  *S'  is  also  employed  to  interrupt  the  light  beams 
during  that  part  of  the  cycle  when  the  films  are  in  motion  through 
their  respective  gates.  This  combination  of  lenses  and  prisms 
requires  very  careful  adjustment  in  order  to  obtain  relatively  even 
illumination  across  the  two  16-mm  apertures  and,  generally  speak- 
ing, suffers  from  similar  disadvantages  to  those  discussed  when 
dealing  with  the  previous  mechanism.  Points  in  favour  of  this 
arrangement  are  the  simplified  mechanism,  compactness  of  layout 
and  consequent  ease  with  which  the  mechanism  may  be  operated. 

Reduction  Printers  having  Pilot  Pin  Registration 
Modern  reduction  printing  equipment  is  usually  designed  to 
produce  only  one  16-mm  copy  during  one  operation  although  the 
latest  Debrie  reduction  printers  give  two  prints  of  both  sound 
and  picture  simultaneously  and  maintain  a  very  high  standard  of 
quality.  It  has  become  general  practice  to  fit  'pilot  pins'  to  the 
intermittent  mechanism  with  which  to  accurately  locate  the  films 
during  that  part  of  the  complete  cycle  in  which  the  exposure  takes 
place.  Unless  some  means  are  employed  to  accurately  locate  any 
film  after  the  claw  mechanism  has  disengaged  from  the  perforations, 
the  final  position  in  which  the  film  will  come  to  rest  will  depend 
upon  the  following  factors:  -(1)  The  time  during  which  the  film 


16  MM  FILM    16 MM  FILM 
'A"  "B* 


o 


Fig.  132.-- -Twin-head  beam-splitting  reduction  printer. 


300 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


C3= 


JHU 


Fig.  133. — Principle  of  pilot-pin  registration. 

movement  through  the  gate  is  retarded  from  maximum  to  minimum 
speed  and,  particularly,  the  velocity  of  movement  still  remaining 
after  the  intermittent  mechanism  has  disengated  from  the  film,  (2) 
The  coefficient  of  friction  between  the  film  and  the  channels  of  the 
gate  through  which  it  is  moving.  (3)  The  tension  which  exists 
between  the  film  gate  channels  and  which  is  intended  to  arrest  the 
film  after  the  claw  has  disengaged  and  also  to  maintain  the  film  in 
a  stationary  position  during  the  exposing  period.  (4)  The  effect 
which  may  be  introduced  by  any  system  used  to  guide  the  film 
through  the  gate  channels  by  a  spring  tension  applied  to  the 
film  edges. 

Figure  133  indicates  the  principle  of  pilot  pin  registration 
and  the  sequence  of  operations  performed  by  this  unit  in  con- 
junction with  a  simple  link  claw.  In  diagram  'A'  the  claw  has 
reached  a  point  approximately  mid-way  between  the  start  and  end 
of  the  'pull-down'  stroke  and,  therefore,  the  film  is  moving  through 
the  gate  at  maximum  velocity.  The  pilot  pins  *D'  are  therefore 
drawn  away  from  the  film.  These  pilot  pins  are  attached  to  an 
accurately  ground  shaft,  free  to  move  horizontally  within  two 
bearings  'E'.  A  central  portion  of  this  shaft  carries  a  cam  follower, 
or  yoke,  *F\  which  is  machined  to  be  a  very  close  fit  around  cam 
'G\  Cam  'G'  is  so  designed  that  it  will  cause  the  pilot  pins  'D' 
first  to  disengage  from  the  film  perforations  and  move  to  the  right, 
then  to  remain  motionless  for  a  period  equal  to  the  duration  of 
the  exposure.  The  pilot  pins  then  travel  to  the  left,  enter  the  film 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS  301 

perforations  and,  once  more,  remain  motionless  for  the  period 
of  the  exposure.  It  should  be  realised  that,  although  the  'dwell* 
which  occurs  at  the  end  of  each  horizontal  movement  is  equal  to 
the  exposure  time,  the  actual  exposure  only  takes  place  when  the 
pilot  pins  have  moved  into  the  film  perforations.  This  cycle  of 
operations  is  so  geared  to  the  motion  of  the  claw  pins  that  the 
pilots  only  enter  the  film  perforations  at  the  moment  when  the 
claw  pins  are  moving  out  of  engagement  and,  after  the  exposure  has 
been  made,  retreat  from  the  film  once  more  as  the  claw  pins  re- 
enter at  the  top  of  their  'pull-down'  stroke. 

Three  main  stages  in  this  cycle  are  seen  in  Figure  133;  that  at 
'A'  indicates  the  relationship  when  the  film  is  engaged  with  the 
claw  pins  as  described  previously;  that  at  'B'  indicates  the  moment 
of  change  over  when  the  pull-down  has  been  completed  and  the 
claw  pins  are  moving  out  of  engagement  whilst,  at  the  same 
instant,  the  pilot  pins  are  taking  control  of  the  film  and  positioning 
it  accurately  in  register  with  the  aperture;  diagram  'C  indicates 
the  condition  during  the  exposure  period  and  shows  the  pilot  pins 
in  full  control  of  the  film  registration  and  the  claw  tips  returning 
to  the  top  of  their  stroke  in  readiness  for  the  next  cycle. 

Fixed  Pilot  Pin  Registration 

The  accuracy  with  which  such  a  pilot  pin  system  will  control  the 
position  of  any  film  during  the  exposing  period  depends,  amongst 
other  considerations,  upon  the  degree  of  accuracy  with  which  the 
sliding  shaft  supporting  the  pins  fits  the  stationary  bearings,  and 
also  the  accuracy  of  the  cam  which  controls  the  horizontal  motion 
imparted  to  this  shaft.  A  recently  designed  printing  machine 
employs  fixed  pilot  pins  which  are  anchored  to  the  mechanism 
plate  itself  -  engagement  with  either  these  pins  or  the  claw  pins 
being  effected  by  oscillating  the  gate  channel  and,  therefore,  the 
film  itself  in  a  horizontal  direction.  The  general  layout  of  the  16-mm 
mechanism  used  in  such  a  printing  machine  is  seen  in  Figure  134, 
which  shows  a  side  elevation  of  the  unit. 

The  main  aperture  plate  supports  two  pilot  pins,  numbered  T 
and  '5',  one  above  and  one  below  the  exposing  aperture.  These 
pilot  pins  are  rigidly  fixed  to  the  main  plate  and  do  not  move.  The 
claw  pins,  numbered  '3'  and  '4',  oscillate  in  a  purely  vertical 
direction  as  indicated  by  the  arrows.  The  film  is  guided  through  a 
gate  formed  by  two  highly  polished  metal  plates  which  oscillate  in 
a  purely  horizontal  direction.  The  action  of  the  mechanism  is 
therefore  as  follows: -The  film  gate,  as  shown  at  'A',  has  just 
moved  to  the  left,  and  the  film  is  located  upon  the  pilot  pins.  The 


302 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


®  ®  ©  ©  © 

Fig.  134.— Fixed  pilot-pins  with  oscillating  gate  mechanism. 

gate  then  continues  to  move  to  the  left,  as  seen  at  'B',  until  the 
back-plate  comes  into  contact  with  the  shoulders  of  the  aperture 
plate  -  in  this  manner  the  film  is  clamped  rigidly  in  the  gate 
channel.  At  the  same  time  the  claw  pins  commence  to  move  in  a 
downward  direction. 

It  is  during  this  part  of  the  cycle  that  the  film  is  exposed.  The 
claw  pins  then  complete  their  downward  movement  and  the  gate 
moves  to  the  right,  as  seen  at  'C,  so  transferring  the  film  from  the 
pilot  pins  onto  the  claw  pins.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  nose 
of  the  pilot  pins  projects  sufficiently  to  overlap  the  nose  of  the  claw 
pins  and,  because  of  this,  the  film  is  always  under  control  by  one 
or  both  sets  of  pins.  The  claw  pins  now  move  in  an  upward  direction, 
as  seen  at  'D\  and  so  advance  the  film  by  a  distance  equal  to 
one  pitch  or  frame.  It  should  be  realised  that,  in  this  machine,  the 
16-mm  film  travels  upwards  whilst  the  35-mm  film  moves  in  a 
downward  direction.  The  gate  then  moves  to  the  left,  as  seen  at 
'E',  and  transfers  the  film  from  the  claw  pins  once  more  onto  the 
pilot  pins.  The  cycle  is  then  repeated. 

The  pilot  pins  are  separated  by  a  distance  equal  to  five  perfora- 
tion intervals,  or  four  pictures.  It  is  because  of  this  control  over  a 
considerable  length  of  film,  and  also  due  to  the  accuracy  with  which 
the  pilot  pins  fit  the  perforations,  that  it  is  possible  to  dispense 
with  the  use  of  conventional  edge  guides  in  the  film  gate.  The  film 
is  therefore  freely  suspended  on  the  pilot  or  claw  pins,  except  for 
that  part  of  the  cycle  during  which  the  gate  is  closed  and  the  film 
comes  under  pressure  from  the  aperture  plate.  It  should  be  noted 


THE   REDUCTION   PRINTING   PROCESS 


303 


that  the  pilot  pins  are  of  different  sizes.  Pin  No.  I  is  known  as  the 
'full- fitting  pilot',  while  Pin  No.  5  is  the  'tolerance  pilot'  and  is 
suitably  reduced  in  thickness  to  accommodate  the  permissible 
tolerances  on  a  section  of  film  four  frames  in  length. 

It  is  worth  while  at  this  point  to  consider  the  accuracy  with 
which  these  pilot  pins  are  manufactured  since  such  information 
will  indicate  the  class  of  workmanship  necessary  in  modern 
reduction  printing  equipment.  The  centre  diagram  of  Figure  135 
shows  a  plan  view  of  these  pilot  pins  and  their  relationship  with  a 
theoretically  perfect  piece  of  film.  The  shaded  area  marked  '1* 
indicates  the  full-fitting  pilot  pin  and  is  surrounded  by  a  framework 
representing  a  perfectly  formed  perforation.  However,  the  Society 
of  Motion  Picture  Engineers  recommend  that  the  perforation 
width  (that  is  the  larger  dimension,  measured  across  the  film), 
should  be  0  -0720-inch,  plus  or  minus  0  -0004-inch.  The  maximum 
width  of  Pin  No.  1  is  therefore  limited  to  0  -0716-inch.  Similarly, 
the  height  of  the  perforation  is  limited  to  0  -05000-inch,  and  it  is 
recommended  that  this  dimension  should  not  vary  by  more  than 
plus  or  minus  0-0004-inch  and,  therefore,  the  height  of  the  pilot 
pin  must  not  exceed  0-0496-inch. 

Let  us  now  assume  that  the  upper  face  of  this  pilot  pin,  shown 
at  'A',  Figure  135,  shall  be  the  base  line  in  setting  out  the  position 
and  size  of  the  remaining  pins.  The  second  and  third  shaded 
areas  will  then  represent  the  position  of  the  claw  pins  when  at  the 


ill 


H>  00500- (booo8+F(oooi)] 

H  *  Required  pin  height 

F  k  Number  of  frames  between  pins 


Fig.  135.—  Analysis  of  pilot-pin  location  and  dimensions. 


304  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

top  of  their  stroke.  Similarly,  the  third  and  fourth  shaded  areas 
will  represent  the  position  of  the  claw  pins  when  at  the  bottom  of 
their  stroke. 

Line  'B'  represents  a  distance  equal  to  one  pitch,  and  is  taken 
from  the  bottom  of  the  perforation  in  engagement  with  the  full- 
fitting  pilot  pin  to  the  bottom  of  the  second  perforation,  as  indicated 
by  line  'C\  However,  in  order  to  permit  the  film  manufacturers 
a  working  tolerance,  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers' 
recommendations  permit  line  'C  to  move  towards  line  'A'  by 
0-0005-inch.  This  condition  is  shown  in  the  right-hand  diagram  of 
Figure  135.  We  have  also  just  recognised  a  further  tolerance, 
namely  on  the  perforation  or  'hole-size'.  This  tolerance  permits 
line  'C'  to  move  a  further  0-0004-inch  towards  line  'A'.  Thus,  a 
pin  in  position  '2'  must  be  capable  of  accepting  a  film  in  which 
the  lower  edge  of  the  perforation,  as  shown  at  'C,  may  be  0-0009- 
inch  nearer  to  the  base  line  'A'  than  would  obtain  in  the  case  of  a 
theoretically  perfect  piece  of  film. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture 
Engineers'  recommendations  also  permit  a  positive  tolerance, 
that  is  to  say,  the  dimensions  given  previously  may  also  be  larger 
than  the  standard.  This  condition  is  shown  in  the  left-hand  diagram. 
The  upper  edge  of  the  pin  in  position  '2'  must  therefore  be  0-0009- 
inch  further  away  from  the  base  line  'A'  than  would  be  necessary 
to  accommodate  a  perfect  piece  of  film.  The  actual  height  of  a 
pin  in  position  '2'  is  therefore  equal  to  the  theoretical  height  of  a 
perfect  perforation,  minus  the  total  tolerances  required  on  each 
side  of  that  perforation,  that  is  to  say,  it  is  0  050-inch,  minus 
0  -0018-inch,  or  is  0  0482-inch. 

In  a  similar  manner  it  is  possible  to  calculate  the  dimensions 
of  any  pin  required  to  fit  any  perforation  a  given  distance  from 
the  base  line  'A'.  It  is  only  necessary  to  apply  the  formula  shown 
in  Figure  135  and  from  which  the  height  of  the  tolerance  pin  '5'  has 
been  calculated.  Thus,  by  subtracting  from  the  height  of  a  perfect 
perforation,  the  total  tolerances  permitted  on  the  'hole-size',  plus 
the  total  tolerances  permitted  on  a  perforation  removed  by  four 
frame  intervals  from  the  base  line  'A'  (to  accommodate  the 
permissible  errors  in  the  film  pitch,  shrinkage,  etc.),  we  see  that 
the  tolerance  pin  No.  5  will  be  0-0452-inch  in  height. 

Any  printer  of  this  type  fitted  with  pins  manufactured  to  the 
tolerances  set  out  in  Figure  135  will  successfully  pass  any  film  which 
is  perforated  to  dimensions  within  a  further  series  of  tolerances 
recommended  by  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers.  As 
seen  at  the  right  of  Figure  135,  any  film  in  which  the  overall  pitch 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS  303 

between  pins  T  and  '5*  is  shortened  to  the  minimum  length 
permitted  will  still  pass  successfully  through  the  machine.  Similarly, 
as  seen  at  the  left  of  Figure  135,  any  film  in  which  the  overall 
pitch  between  pins  T  and  '5'  is  increased  to  the  maximum  length 
permitted,  will  also  pass  successfully  through  the  machine.  How- 
ever, it  must  be  pointed  out  that,  for  other  reasons  not  relevant  to 
the  present  considerations,  it  does  not  necessarily  follow  that 
all  such  films  will  be  free  from  picture  unsteadiness  when  viewed 
on  the  screen.  The  maintenance  of  pilot  pin,  claw  pin  and  film 
pitch  dimensions  to  be  within  the  accepted  tolerances  ensures  that 
the  film  will  pass  through  the  machine  without  causing  any  damage 
to  the  edges  of  the  perforations. 

Printer  Adjustments 

Turning  now  to  consider  refinements  which  may  be  provided  with 
any  reduction  printing  equipment,  we  find  that  five  main  require- 
ments are  usually  fulfilled:  (1)  means  to  adjust  the  framing  of 
the  35-mm  negative  film,  (2)  provision  to  adjust  the  intensity  of 
the  exposure,  (3)  interchangeable  aperture  plates  to  mask  either 
sound  or  silent  35-mm  picture  areas,  (4)  provision  to  adjust  the 
reduction  ratios  and,  (5)  provision  to  adjust  the  sharpness  of  the 
16-mm  image.  Although  some  printers  do  not  provide  all  the  fore- 
going refinements,  it  is  usual  to  find  the  first  two  -  35-mm  film 
framing  and  exposure  regulation,  fitted  to  every  machine. 

The  accuracy  with  which  the  boundary  of  the  35-mm  picture  is 
located  with  respect  to  the  perforations  depends  upon  the  distance 
between  the  intermittent  mechanism  and  the  aperture  in  the  original 
camera  used  to  produce  the  negative.  An  appreciable  variation  in 
this  dimension  has  been  known  to  exist  between  cameras  of  differ- 
ent types  and,  unless  some  correction  is  available  in  the  reduction 
printer,  the  top  of  the  picture  may  be  lost  and  a  black  border,  larger 
than  that  required,  may  be  printed  at  the  bottom  of  the  16-mm 
picture  area.  If  the  bottom  of  the  35-mm  picture  is  lost  then  the 
width  of  the  black  border  is  increased  at  the  top  of  the  16-mm 
picture  area.  Obviously,  some  means  must  be  provided  to  correctly 
align  the  picture  area  and  the  aperture  in  the  printer  and,  in  early 
machines,  this  was  accomplished  by  moving  the  aperture  plate  in  a 
vertical  direction,  as  shown  in  Diagram  'A',  Figure  136.  This 
system  of  correction  is  not  satisfactory  since  it  must  cause  the 
16-mm  image  to  be  misplaced  with  respect  to  the  perforations  in 
that  film. 

Firstly,  let  us  assume  that,  in  the  perfect  case,  the  35-mm  claw 
in  the  printer  will  bring  the  film  t®  rest  so  that  picture  'A'  is 

20 


306 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


FILM      APERTURE 

j     .y        FILM.   > 


Ml! 

35  MM.  HEAD 

FILM     FILM     APERTURE 


h 


r 


[DIAGRAM    a] 


OPTICAL. 


CtNTRE 


j  DIAGRAM  'bH 


APERTURE       FILM 


rFILM      APEKTUHfc  v 


16  MM.  HEAD 

APERTURE     FILM 


11 


35  MM.  HEAD  16  MM.  HEAD 

Fig.  136. — Methods  of  image  framing  in  printing  equipment. 


symmetrically  placed  about  the  optical  centre.  Aperture  'B'  will 
therefore  be  adjusted  to  the  mid-position  and,  if  the  magnification 
is  correct,  a  perfectly  framed  16-mm  image  will  pass  through 
aperture  'E'  and  so  to  film  'F'.  It  is  assumed  that  the  16-mm 
intermittent  mechanism  in  the  printer  has  been  carefully  adjusted 
to  bring  the  film  to  rest  so  that  the  two  perforations  relative  to 
the  vertical  frame  boundaries  are  symmetrically  placed  with  respect 
to  aperture  'E\  If  a  second  35-mm  film  is  then  found  to  be  brought 
to  rest  so  that  the  picture  is  in  position  'C  and  is,  therefore,  mis- 
placed with  respect  to  the  optical  centre,  it  will  be  necessary  to  move 
the  35-mm  aperture  to  position  'D'.  Such  a  move  will,  of  course, 
cause  the  16-mm  image  to  be  misplaced  with  respect  to  aperture 
'E'  and,  if  this  aperture  is  then  adjusted  until  the  entire  picture 
passes  to  the  16-mm  film,  the  final  reduced  image  will  be  misplaced 
with  respect  to  the  16-mm  perforations.  Quite  apart  from  these 
points,  the  optical  system  may  not  adequately  'cover'  35-mm 
apertures  which  are  misplaced  by  an  amount  such  as  that  shown 
at  'D'  and,  in  consequence,  the  exposure  may  not  remain  at  equal 
intensities  across  the  16-mm  aperture.  Under  such  circumstances 
the  image  definition  would  also  suffer  at  the  extreme  edges  of  the 
field. 

In  modern  equipment  these  difficulties  are  avoided  by   main- 
taining all  pictures  apertures  in  fixed  positions  and  symmetrically 


THE  REDUCTION   PRINTING   PROCESS  307 

about  the  optical  centre.  This  condition  is  seen  in  diagram  'B\ 
Figure  136,  where  lH'  represents  the  position  of  a  perfectly  placed 
35-rnm  picture,  'J'  the  corresponding  aperture,  'K'  the  16-mm 
aperture  and  'L'  the  correct  position  in  which  the  16-mm  image 
will  fall  relative  to  the  film  perforations.  When  a  35-mm  picture  is 
mis-framed,  as  indicated  at  'G',  it  is  now  possible  to  adjust  the 
position  of  the  entire  35-mm  intermittent  mechanism  so  that  the 
film  is  moved  relative  to  a  fixed  aperture. 

Obviously,  this  adjustment  must  be  made  by  a  mechanism 
which  also  adjusts  the  phase  relationship  with  the  shutter  or, 
alternatively,  the  shutter  must  have  sufficient  covering  power  when 
set  in  an  optimum  position,  to  adequately  cover  the  'pull-down' 
when  this  occurs  either  at  the  maximum  or  minimum  retarded 
positions  of  the  available  range.  Unless  the  action  of  the  shutter 
is  related  to  the  various  positions  of  the  intermittent  mechanism 
the  light  may  not  be  completely  obscured  before  the  films  start  to 
move  and,  under  these  conditions,  image  definition  will  be  lost  and 
double-exposure  will  result. 

Exposure  Adjustments  and  Negative  Density 
As  is  well  known,  the  exposure  given  to  any  photographic  material 
is  a  product  of  the  intensity  of  the  light  source  and  the  time  during 
which  such  intensity  is  in  operation  upon  the  sensitive  surface. 
With  reduction  printing  equipment  running  at  a  constant  speed, 
the  time  of  the  exposure  is  fixed  by  the  angular  opening  in  the 
disc  shutter  and,  obviously,  this  time  is  shorter  in  machines 
running  at  high  speeds  than  it  would  be  in  machines  running  at 
low  speeds  when,  in  both  cases,  the  shutter  apertures  are  similar. 
For  example,  a  machine  in  which  the  16-mm  film  travels  at  a  speed 
of  21-feet  per  minute  and  having  a  shutter  opening  of  180°  will  give 
an  exposure  of  one-twenty-eighth  of  a  second  whereas,  a  similar 
machine  in  which  the  16-mm  film  travels  at  a  speed  of  45-feet  per 
minute  and  still  having  a  shutter  opening  of  180°  will  give  an 
exposure  time  of  one-sixtieth  of  a  second.  However,  once  the 
machine  speed  has  been  ascertained,  a  simple  calculation  will 
establish  the  actual  exposure  time  which  will,  of  course,  then 
remain  a  constant.  The  only  remaining  adjustment  with  which  to 
obtain  a  variation  in  actual  exposure  is,  therefore,  the  intensity 
of  the  printing  light. 

When  original  camera  negatives  are  produced  it  is  almost 
an  impossibility  to  obtain  a  whole  series  of  shots  which  could 
all  be  printed  to  an  optimum  quality  by  giving  identical  exposures 
from  scene  to  scene  and,  since  the  35-mm  negatives  which  are 


308  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

supplied  to  reduction  printing  laboratories  are  usually  duplicate 
copies  of  the  original  camera  negatives,  the  opportunity  is  often 
taken  to  eliminate  such  scene-to-scene  variations  in  exposure 
whilst  the  duplicate  negative  is  being  prepared. 

For  this  reason  most  of  the  modern  duplicate  negatives  supplied 
to  laboratories  can  usually  be  successfully  printed  by  using  but 
very  few  exposure  changes  throughout  the  entire  roll  of  film. 
However,  such  duplicate  negatives  have  not  been  made  for 
the  express  purpose  of  operating  in  any  particular  reduction 
printing  machine  known  to  give  a  certain  exposure  value  and, 
therefore,  the  exposure  given  to  one  negative  on  a  fast  moving 
machine  would  be  quite  different  to  that  given  to  the  same  negative 
when  printed  on  a  slow  moving  machine.  Similarly,  it  is  quite  likely 
that  a  reduction  print  may  be  required  from  an  older  35-mm 
negative  in  which  the  original  scene-to-scene  exposure  variations 
have  not  been  eliminated. 

For  these  reasons  it  is  essential  that  some  means  shall  be  pro- 
vided within  the  reduction  printer  whereby  the  intensity  of  the 
exposure  may  be  adjusted  either  from  one  scene  to  the  next  (in 
the  case  of  ungraded  negatives)  or  from  one  complete  roll  to  the 
next  (in  the  case  of  modern  balanced  duplicate  negatives).  The 
mechanism  designed  to  meet  this  requirement  is,  in  principle, 
similar  to  that  used  for  35-mm  contact  printing,  and  has  already 
been  described  in  Chapter  5. 

Negative  Grading  or  Exposure  Selection 

Before  it  is  possible  to  make  a  16-mm  reduction  print  from  any 
35-mm  negative  it  is  necessary  to  obtain  an  estimate  of  the  exposure 
required  for  each  particular  scene  or  roll  of  film.  This  is  done  by  the 
film  grader  and  three  main  systems  are  available  to  assist  him  in 
this  work.  Firstly,  it  is  quite  possible  that,  after  considerable 
experience  with  particular  machines  and  film  stocks,  the  grader 
may  be  able  to  select  quite  a  reasonable  exposure  setting  by  inspec- 
tion alone.  Secondly,  he  may  prefer  to  check  this  initial  estimate 
by  comparing  the  negative  with  a  specially  prepared  series  of 
negatives  for  which  the  optimum  exposure  values  have  been 
previously  obtained.  Thirdly,  he  may  rely  upon  practical  tests  on 
instruments  designed  to  make  a  series  of  exposures  along  a  short 
length  of  each  scene  -  the  series  of  exposure  values  being  selected 
to  correspond  to  the  settings  available  with  the  reduction  printer 
in  use.  Thus  it  is  seen  that,  for  all  practical  purposes,  grading  for 
reduction  printing  is  similar  to  that  already  discussed  when 
dealing  with  the  35-mm  contact  printing  processes. 


THE  REDUCTION  PRINTING  PROCESS 


309 


Multiple  Copies  by  Direct  Contact  Printing 

From  the  foregoing  outline  of  the  reduction  printing  process,  and 
the  need  for  accurate  reduction  ratios  and  critical  image  focusing, 
it  will  be  appreciated  that  considerable  attention  and  servicing  is 
required  to  keep  such  machines  in  first  class  condition.  Because  of 
this  some  laboratories  now  favour  the  use  of  an  optical  reduction 
printer  only  to  prepare  one  master  16-mm  positive  copy  from  the 
original  35-mm  negative.  From  this  master  copy  a  16-mm  duplicate 
negative  is  made  and,  of  course,  may  then  be  used  to  produce  the 
large  number  of  final  positive  prints  by  the  contact  printing 
method,  either  in  a  continuous  or  rotary  printer  or  in  a  step-by-step 
or  intermittent  printer.  If  equal  results  are  obtained  with  both 
types  of  equipment,  it  is  preferable  to  use  a  continuous  printer 
since,  in  such  machines,  the  perforation  loading  is  more  gradually 
applied  and,  in  consequence,  the  possible  film  damage  is  reduced 
to  a  minimum. 

The  layout  of  a  typical  rotary  contact  printer  used  to  produce 
16-mm  positive  copies  from  previously  reduced  duplicate  negatives 
is  seen  in  Figure  137.  The  raw  positive  stock  is  fed  from  a  supply 
spool  'Pi'  and  the  16-mm  negative  from  spool  'N/  so  that  both 
pass  in  contact  under  a  constant  speed  sprocket  wheel  'Fa\  The 
exposing  gate  *Eg9  is  formed  to  a  large  radius  and  is  in  such  a 
position  that  both  films  are  held  in  close  contact  at  the  exposing 
point.  The  exposing  aperture  is  usually  a  narrow  slit  across  the 
full  picture  width  but  only  about  1  /10th  of  an  inch  in  the  direction 
of  the  film  travel.  Contact  between  the  two  films  is  increased  by  a 
tension  roller  'Tr',  mounted  between  the  gate  and  the  constant 
speed  take-up  sprocket  'Ts\  The  films  then  separate  and  pass  to 
their  respective  take-up  spools  'P2'  and  'N2'. 


Fig.  137. — Rotary  contact  printing  mechanism. 


310  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

This  diagram  only  illustrates  the  general  principle  of  rotary 
contact  printing  machinery  and,  in  practice,  other  refinements  may 
be  found.  For  example,  one  manufacturer  includes  two  further 
sets  of  sprocket  wheels  between  'F,'  and  the  supply  spools  and  also 
between  Ta'  and  the  take-up  spools.  This  is  thought  to  maintain  a 
constant  tension  on  the  film  spools  and,  at  the  same  time,  to  isolate 
such  tension  from  the  sprockets  adjacent  to  the  exposing  gate.  The 
actual  length  of  the  exposing  gate,  measured  along  the  film,  can 
only  be  made  very  small  if  exceptionally  accurate  gearing  and  very 
constant  film  speed  are  maintained.  When  the  aperture  size  becomes 
too  small  any  unevenness  in  film  motion  will  appear  as  bands  of 
light  and  dark  exposure  across  the  picture  area.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  the  aperture  is  too  large,  contact  between  the  two  films  becomes 
difficult  and  definition  will  become  poor. 

Most  contact  printers  are  provided  with  means  to  vary  the 
exposure,  either  by  a  resistance  light-change  or  by  a  diaphragm 
control,  in  a  similar  manner  to  that  found  in  35-mm  equipment. 
Since  a  duplicate  16-mm  negative  must  be  made  on  an  intermittent 
optical  reduction  printer  it  is  usual  to  endeavour  to  complete  all 
the  scene  balancing  operations  by  adjusting  the  exposures  given 
when  this  duplicate  is  being  made. 

It  should  be  realised  that  the  photographic  quality  obtained  by 
contact  printing  is  somewhat  different  to  that  obtained  by  optical 
reduction  printing  directly  from  a  35-mm  negative.  This  is  partly 
due  to  the  fact  that  optical  reduction  printers  only  pass  the  specular 
light  to  the  16-mm  film,  whilst  contact  printers  pass  both  the 
specular  and  the  diffuse  illumination  to  the  positive  film.  The 
so-called  'Printer-Gamma'  in  reduction  machines  is  therefore 
very  high.  A  further  reason  for  differences  between  the  two 
methods  is  naturally  dependent  upon  the  photographic  character- 
istics of  the  intermediate  16-mm  duplicate  negative  used  in  the 
contact  process  and,  in  general,  it  has  been  found  that  slightly 
higher  contrast  and,  consequently,  prints  having  more  brilliance 
are  obtained  by  the  reduction  printing  process  than  those  possible 
with  the  contact  methods  which  use  an  intermediate  16-mm 
negative. 


CHAPTER  11 

SOUND    REDUCTION    PRINTING 


The  possibility  of  adding  sound  to  16-mm  films  was  considered 
almost  as  soon  as  35-mm  talking  pictures  became  a  workable 
commercial  proposition.  At  that  time  the  problems  which  still 
remained  unsolved  in  the  professional  sound-on-film  systems  led 
most  investigators  to  the  conclusion  that  16-mm  sound  films 
would  only  be  possible  if  some  form  of  disc  recording,  similar  to 
that  used  in  the  earliest  studio  productions,  were  adapted  for  use 
in  conjunction  with  the  normal  16-mm  silent  films.  Two  main 
points  which  appeared  to  justify  this  conclusion  were  (a)  the 
shorter  film  length  available  to  accommodate  the  high  frequency 
recordings  and  (b)  the  extra  cost  to  the  user  of  pictures  made  with 
the  speed  of  16-mm  film  projection  (in  terms  of  pictures  per 
second)  increased  to  be  equal  to  that  of  the  35-mm  film. 

At  that  time  it  was  thought  that  a  high  frequency  response  up  to 
6,000-cycles  per  second  was  the  maximum  obtainable  with  35-mm 
equipment.  Since  the  speed  of  this  film  had  already  been  increased 
from  the  silent  rate  of  16-pictures  per  second  up  to  24-pictures  per 
second  solely  to  provide  a  greater  distance  in  which  to  accommo- 
date these  high  frequencies,  it  was  argued  that,  even  if  the  speed  of 
16-mm  films  were  also  increased  to  24-pictures  per  second,  the 
available  film  length  in  which  to  accommodate  high  frequencies 
would  only  be  2/5ths  of  that  provided  with  35-mm  film.  The  ratio 
is,  of  course  governed  by  the  length  of  film  provided  to  accommo- 
date the  respective  pictures  in  each  case  and  causes  a  400-ft  length 
of  16-mm  film  to  have  a  projection  time  equal  to  that  obtained  with 
a  1,000-ft  length  of  35-mm  film.  It  will  be  realised  that  if,  at  that 
time,  this  argument  was  true,  the  highest  frequency  which  could  be 
reproduced  from  16-mm  film  must  have  been  2/5ths  of  6,000- 
cycles  -  the  top  reproduction  with  35-mm  equipment  -  that  is,  a 
frequency  of  2,400  cycles  per  second  and,  whilst  this  would  have 
adequately  covered  most  dialogue  recordings,  it  would  have 
greatly  reduced  the  quality  of  musical  and  sound  effects.  Tt  must 

311 


312  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

also  be  remembered  that  this  argument  would  only  be  sub- 
stantiated if  the  sound  reproducing  equipment,  amplifiers  and 
speaker  systems  used  with  the  16-mm  films  were  all  of  a  quality 
equal  to  those  used  with  the  35-mm  films  and  that,  in  consequence, 
the  only  restricting  influence  was  the  film  speed  and  the  area 
available  to  accommodate  any  one  frequency. 

Because  of  this  a  number  of  very  ambitious  sound-on-disc 
mechanisms  became  available  and  several  very  convincing  demon- 
strations were  given.  Particular  success  was  obtained  in  the  field  of 
advertising,  since  it  was  possible  to  prepare  a  picture  film  of 
comparatively  short  duration  and  which  could  be  screened  in 
the  time  taken  to  play  only  one  disc.  This  had  the  advantage  that 
film  and  disc  synchronising  could  be  easily  maintained  and,  unless 
the  film  became  broken,  and  subsequent  joining  shortened  its 
length  relative  to  the  playing  time  of  the  disc,  this  synchronism 
could  be  controlled  by  relatively  unskilled  operators. 

The  reasons  which  caused  the  35-mm  film  producers  to  abandon 
disc  reproduction  in  favour  of  a  photographic  sound  record  now 
apply  equally  well  to  16-mm  talking  pictures  and  eventually  caused 
sound  accompaniment  to  these  films  to  be  made  by  photographic 
processes.  Two  main  systems  were  available  for  this  purpose. 
It  must  first  be  realised  that  the  greatest  interest  was  and,  until 
recently,  has  always  been  in  producing  16-mm  sound  films  by 
reducing  original  tracks  and  pictures  from  the  larger  35-mm 
films,  and  not  by  directly  recording  onto  16-mm  stock.  As  we  have 
already  seen,  processes  had  been  available  for  some  time  whereby 
35-mm  silent  pictures  could  be  optically  reduced  to  16-mm  and 
other  sub-standard  sizes  and  it  was  a  natural  developments  of  these 
systems  which  produced  the  continuous  optical  reduction  machines 
capable  of  printing  a  smaller  image  of  the  35-mm  sound  track 
onto  the  16-mm  film.  The  second  main  systems  consisted  in  scan- 
ing  the  35-mm  track  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  used  in  professional 
projectors,  and  using  the  amplified  sound  signals  to  operate  a 
sound  recording  head  similar  to  that  used  when  the  original 
sounds  were  recorded.  This  new  recording  head  may  either  be 
fitted  with  a  fight  valve  or  a  mirror  galvanometer  to  produce  either 
variable  density  or  variable  area  tracks.  The  first  of  these  two 
systems  is  known  as  'Sound  Reduction  Printing'  and  the  second 
as  *The  Re-recording  Process*. 

Film  Dimensions 

Before  we  can  discuss  either  process  in  detail,  or  assess  the 

advantages  of  each  system,  it  is  necessary  to  consider  the  standard- 


SOUND   REDUCTION  PRINTING 


313 


ised  dimensions  to  which  16-mm  sound  tracks  should  be  made  and 
which,  of  course,  apply  equally  well  to  both  processes.  Before  1936 
considerable  difficulty  was  experienced  in  this  Country  due  to  the 
existence  of  two  main  systems  of  sound  track  standardisation.  The 
first  of  these  was  established  by  the  D.I.N.  Standards  Committees 
and  required  that  16-mm  sound  films  should  be  prepared  in  accor- 
dance with  diagram  'A*,  Figure  138.  This  figure  shows  the  position 
of  the  positive  copy  when  in  a  projector  gate  and  with  the  light 
travelling  towards  the  screen  in  the  direction  of  the  arrow.  In  this 
arrangement  the  emulsion  surface  is  away  from  the  objective  lens 
and  the  sound  track  is  located  on  the  right-hand  side.  The  standards 
recommended  by  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers  are  seen 
in  diagram  'B'  and,  whilst  still  viewing  the  film  from  the  projector 
lamphouse  and  looking  towards  the  screen,  it  will  be  noticed  that 
the  sound  track  is  now  located  on  the  left-hand  side  and  the 
emulsion  surface  is  towards  the  lens.  Obviously,  the  greatest 
difficulties  occurred  whilst  both  systems  were  in  use  since  films 
manufactured  to  one  standard  could  not  be  projected  on  machines 
designed  to  accommodate  the  other  standard.  At  that  time  the 
earliest  Gebescope  projectors  were  arranged  to  operate  with  the 
D.I.N,  standard  film  as  shown  in  diagram  'A'  whilst  the  Western 
Electric  Company  were  interested  in  obtaining  the  universal 
acceptance  of  the  S.P.M.E.  recommendations  shown  in  diagram 
*B\  The  position  was  of  such  interest  that  an  independent  arbitra- 
tor was  appointed  by  the  British  Standards  Institution  and,  as  a 
result,  it  was  finally  decided  that  the  S.M.P.E.  system  should  be 
the  accepted  standard  for  British-made  reduction  prints. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  these  early  differences  caused 
modifications  to  be  made  to  projectors  which  had  been  previously 
designed  to  handle  only  films  made  to  the  D.I.N,  specifications. 


EMULSION 
TOWARDS   LIGHT  SOURCE 


EMULSION 
TOWARDS   LENS 


® 


® 


Fig.  138.— D.I.N.  Standard  and  S.M.P.E.  Standard  16-mm  sound  track 

location. 


314  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

It  is  still  possible  to  find  some  of  the  early  Model  'A'  Gebescope 
machines  fitted  with  a  reversing  prism  in  front  of  the  normal 
projection  lens.  By  using  such  a  prism  it  is  possible  to  reverse  an 
S.M.P.E.  film  from  left  to  right  -  in  order  to  reproduce  the  sound 
track  -  and  then  to  bring  the  picture  into  correct  relationship  on 
the  screen  by  passing  the  light  rays  through  the  prism. 

From  this  very  brief  survey  of  the  early  difficulties  experienced 
with  the  introduction  of  sound  to  the  16-mm  film  it  will  be  realised 
that  a  great  deal  of  research  and  progress  had  to  be  made  before 
the  quality  which  is  now  available  became  possible.  However, 
we  may  now  accept  the  following  specification  as  representative  of 
first  class  modern  16-mm  sound  reduction  prints  and  from  this 
be  able  more  easily  to  appreciate  the  accuracy  to  which  modern 
equipment  must  be  designed  and  maintained.  Firstly,  the  greatly 
increased  emulsion  quality  and,  particularly,  the  fine  grain  and 
consequent  high  resolution  now  available,  make  possible  the 
recording  of  frequencies  up  to  9,000-cycles  per  second.  Secondly, 
since  the  projection  speed  has  been  standardised  at  a  rate  of  24- 
pictures  per  second,  a  length  of  7  •  2-inches  of  film  will  pass  the 
sound  scanning  point  every  second  and,  consequently,  one  complete 
cycle  of  a  9,000-cycle  frequency  is  accommodated  within  a  length 
of  0-0008-inch.  Thirdly,  the  effective  length  of  the  16-mm  track  is 
only  2/5ths  of  a  corresponding  35-mm  track,  whilst  the  width  of 
the  16-mm  track  has  been  standardised  at  85%  of  that  used  with 
35-mm  equipment. 

Optical  Reduction  Printers 

Of  the  two  main  systems  available  whereby  sound  may  be  trans- 
ferred from  a  35-mm  film  to  one  of  16-mm  in  width  the  Optical 
Reduction  printing  process  is  most  widely  used  and  will,  therefore, 
be  considered  in  detail  at  this  stage.  In  this  process  two  main 
requirements  must  be  satisfied;  firstly,  the  amount  of  film  which 
passes  the  35-mm  aperture  during  one  second  must  be  exactly  2-5 
times  greater  than  the  amount  which  passes  the  16-mm  aperture 
in  an  equal  time.  If  this  factor  is  not  controlled  to  very  close  limits 
an  effect  known  as  'Optical  Slippage'  will  take  place  and  the  16-mm 
record  will  be  of  very  poor  quality.  It  is  also  not  only  important 
that  the  relative  linear  film  speeds  should  remain  proportional  but 
also  that  both  films  should  move  at  a  uniform  rate.  Any  variation 
in  film  speed  will  produce  a  variation  in  exposure  time  with  a 
consequent  variation  in  16-mm  image  density.  The  second  main 
requirement  is  that  the  amount  by  which  the  width  of  the  35-mm 
track  must  be  reduced  is  not  equal  to  the  reduction  along  the 


SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING 


315 


length  of  the  track.  This  requirement  is  necessary  to  maintain  a 
relatively  wide  area  in  which  to  accommodate  the  changes  in  track 
width,  in  the  case  of  Variable  Area  recordings  for  example,  which 
must  be  kept  to  a  maximum  if  a  full  amplitude  range  is  to  be 
maintained  without  introducing  distortion.  A  relatively  wider 
track  also  ensures  a  greater  light  transmission  to  the  photo-cell  in 
the  sound  reproducing  head. 


® 


Fig.  139. — Prevention  of  "optical  slippage 


Constant  Film  Speed  and  Reduction  Ratio 

Two  of  the  most  popular  systems  used  to  ensure  that  both  the 
35-mm  and  the  16-mm  films  pass  through  the  optical  reduction 
printer  at  the  required  speeds  are  seen  in  Figure  139.  The  design 
shown  at  'A'  is  used  when  the  two  films  and  the  optical  system  are 
arranged  in  a  straight  line  relationship  along  a  common  axis  -  as 
will  be  explained  later,  the  different  optical  reduction  ratios  along 
and  across  the  film  can  be  obtained  with  such  a  system  when 
certain  lenses  are  employed.  If  it  is  assumed  that  an  A.C.  syn- 
chronous motor  is  used  and  rotates  at  a  speed  of  1,440  revolutions 
every  minute,  it  is  possible  to  use  a  worm  gear  reduction  of,  say, 
72:  1  at  position  'B'  so  that  the  35-mm  sprocket  attached  to  the 
worm-wheel  in  mesh  with  'B'  will  rotate  20  times  every  minute  and, 
by  selecting  a  suitable  sprocket  diameter,  the  35-mm  film  will 
travel  at  a  speed  of  30-feet  per  minute.  From  previous  con- 
siderations it  is  known  that  the  16-mm  film  must  travel  at  a  speed 
of  12-feet  per  minute,  or  2/5ths  of  the  speed  of  the  35-mm  film. 
This  16-mm  speed  of  12-feet  per  minute  can  be  obtained  by  three 
methods;  firstly,  by  using  a  second  worm  gear  at  position  *C 
which  also  has  a  reduction  ratio  of  72*1  and,  since  the  16-mm 
sprocket  will  therefore  rotate  at  a  speed  equal  to  that  of  the  35-mm 
sprocket,  it  will  be  necessary  to  reduce  the  diameter  of  this  sprocket 


316  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

so  that  it  is  only  2/5ths  that  of  the  35-mm  sprocket  and  then, 
although  both  sprockets  will  rotate  an  equal  number  of  turns  per 
minute,  the  actual  footage  passed  by  each  will  be  in  proportion 
to  their  respective  diameters. 

The  second  alternative  is  to  maintain  the  sprocket  wheels  at 
equal  diameters  -  this  may  be  necessary  in  order  to  retain  the 
films  at  similar  curvatures  because  of  some  optical  requirements 
and  also  since  most  printers  expose  the  films  while  they  remain  in 
contact  with  these  sprocket  wheels.  If  this  is  done  the  worm 
reduction  gear  at  position  'C  must  be  2-5  times  greater  than  that 
at  position  'B'  and  will,  therefore,  be  a  ratio  of  180:1  and,  in 
consequence,  the  16-mm  sprocket  will  only  rotate  at  a  speed  of  8 
revolutions  per  minute  as  compared  with  the  20  revolutions  per 
minute  made  by  the  35-mm  sprocket  wheel  at  position  'B\ 

The  third  alternative  is,  of  course,  to  accommodate  part  of  the 
film  speed  reduction  by  a  suitably  chosen  worm  gear  at  position 
'C  and  to  accommodate  the  remainder  by  a  small  change  in  the 
16-mm  sprocket  diameter.  On  first  consideration  this  arrangement 
may  seem  to  be  an  unnecessary  complication  but,  in  some  designs, 
it  has  proved  to  be  a  distinct  advantage.  The  curvature  placed 
upon  a  35-mm  film  in  a  direction  along  its  length  need  only  be 
relatively  slight  in  order  to  prevent  'bowing'  or  curvature  across 
the  film  width.  As  the  width  of  the  film  decreases  it  may  be  necessary 
to  increase  this  longitudinal  curvature  somewhat  in  order  to  prevent 
bowing  across  such  a  narrow  strip  and,  therefore,  the  16-mm  film 
is  most  likely  to  remain  fiat  at  the  exposing  aperture  if  the  sprocket 
wheel  is  of  a  smaller  diameter  than  that  used  to  drive  the  35-mm 
film.  However,  at  certain  printing  speeds,  it  may  not  be  possible  to 
reduce  the  diameter  of  the  16-mm  sprocket  by  the  full  amount 
necessary  to  provide  the  complete  reduction  ratio  since,  under  these 
conditions,  the  longitudinal  curvature  would  be  so  severe  that 
image  definition  would  be  poor  at  the  upper  and  lower  edges  of  the 
exposing  aperture.  Under  such  circumstances  the  only  course  open 
to  the  designer  is  to  accommodate  part  of  the  reduction  ratio  by  the 
gear  reduction  and  the  remainder  by  a  change  in  the  16-mm 
sprocket  diameter. 

Constant  Film  Speed 

In  a  straight-line  driving  mechanism  such  as  that  seen  at  'A', 
Figure  139,  three  main  sources  of  error  may  effect  the  uniformity 
of  film  motion  past  the  scanning  points.  Firstly,  the  speed  of  the 
motor  shaft  may  vary  within  small  limits;  secondly,  the  accuracy 
with  which  the  worm  gearing  is  made  may  transmit  a  'gear  tooth 


SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING  317 

flutter'  to  the  sprocket  wheels  and,  thirdly,  the  pitch  and  size  of 
the  sprocket  teeth  may  not  be  accurately  computed  to  accommodate 
films  which  may  be  old  or  shrunk,  The  most  objectionable  error  in 
this  system  is  that  a  momentary  increase  in  the  speed  of  the  35-mm 
film  can  occur  when  the  speed  of  the  16-mm  film  is  momentarily 
retarded  -  this  condition  would  be  caused  if  inaccuracies  in  the 
35-mm  worm  gear  forced  this  train  forward  at  a  speed  higher  than 
normal  and,  at  the  same  instant,  similar  inaccuracies  in  the  16-mm 
worm  gear  retarded  that  train  to  a  speed  below  normal. 

The  arrangement  shown  in  sketch  'B',  Figure  139,  is  favoured 
by  many  designers  since  variations  in  gearing  will  affect  both  the 
35-mm  and  the  16-mm  sprockets  in  a  similar  direction  at  any  given 
instant.  In  this  arrangement  drive  from  the  main  motor  is  transmit- 
ted by  a  single  worm  gear  to  a  common  shaft  upon  which  both 
16-mm  and  35-mm  sprockets  may  be  mounted.  Obviously,  any 
variation  in  the  speed  at  which  this  shaft  rotates  will  cause  equal 
changes  in  the  angular  velocity  of  both  sprocket  wheels.  Such 
variations  would,  therefore,  only  cause  changes  in  exposure  and 
not  optical  slippage  between  the  negative  and  the  relative  position 
of  the  reduced  image  on  the  16-mm  film.  However,  it  must  be  re- 
membered that  any  changes  in  the  relative  positions  of  the  sprocket 
teeth,  due  to  inaccurate  workmanship,  would  cause  optical  slippage 
although  it  would  probably  be  less  noticeable  in  a  machine  of  this 
type  than  if  it  occurred  in  a  machine  of  the  type  shown  in  design  'A'. 

It  will  be  realised  that  design  'A'  has  the  great  advantage  that 
the  optical  layout  will  be  in  one  straight  line  path  whereas,  in 
design  'B',  it  is  necessary  to  transfer  the  image  from  the  35-mm 
film  to  the  16-mm  film  by  a  path  as  indicated  by  the  'arrowed' 
line.  Because  of  this  attention  was  turned  to  the  possibility  of 
modifying  design  'A'  to  eliminate  some  of  the  possible  sources  of 
film  speed  variation. 

One  of  the  most  successful  systems  designed  to  impart  a 
constant  speed  to  film  was  originally  used  by  the  R.C.A.  Company 
and  developed  as  a  drive  for  their  35-mm  sound  recording  equip- 
ment. Until  now  we  have  considered  it  necessary  for  the  film  to  be 
supported  on  a  rotating  sprocket  wheel  as  it  passes  the  scanning 
point  and,  in  consequence,  we  have  been  forced  to  recognise  several 
sources  of  error  which  may  be  attributed  to  this  method  of  traction. 
Quite  obviously,  passing  the  film  over  a  smooth  drum  would  elimin- 
ate any  errors  present  in  the  sprocket  itself  and,  if  such  a  drum  were 
perfectly  concentric  with  an  accurately  mounted  shaft,  it  should  be 
possible  to  cause  the  film  to  travel  at  a  speed  equal  to  that  of  the 
drum  surface  -  providing  some  means  could  be  employed  to 


318  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

ensure  that  the  film  did  not  slip  relative  to  the  drum.  The  first 
requirement  -  that  the  drum  shall  remain  true  or  concentric  - 
merely  calls  for  good  workmanship  and  careful  fitting.  The 
second  requirement  -  that  the  film  must  travel  on  the  drum  with- 
out slipping  -  can  be  ensured  by  using  a  drum  with  a  somewhat 
dull  finish  and  by  applying  pressure  to  the  film  at  the  beginning 
and  end  of  the  contact  path  between  it  and  the  drum. 

Assuming  that  such  a  drum  can  be  made  it  is,  of  course,  still 
necessary  to  feed  the  film  onto  and  away  from  this  drum  by  passing 
it  over  sprocket  wheels.  Quite  apart  from  the  fact  that  such 
sprockets  would  isolate  the  drum  from  the  feed  and  takeup  spool- 
tensions,  it  is  obviously  the  number  of  perforations  which  pass 
a  given  point  every  second,  and  not  the  linear  feet  of  film,  which 
must  be  equal  in  both  the  sound  and  picture  negatives  if  syn- 
chronism is  to  be  maintained.  At  first  it  may  be  difficult  to  realise 
that  a  considerable  difference  can  exist  between  these  two  factors 
but,  when  it  is  remembered  that  a  film  shrinkage  of  only  \  of 
1  %  would  cause  a  reduction  of  5-feet  in  a  1,000-ft  roll  of  35-mm 
film,  it  is  obvious  that  the  more  fixed  reference  base,  namely 
that  four  perforations  -  regardless  of  their  actual  pitch  -  are 
provided  for  each  35-mm  picture  height,  is  the  controlling 
factor.  Since  constant  speed  is  to  be  obtained  by  passing  the  film 
over  a  smooth  drum,  it  must  be  threaded  with  free  loops  between 
the  sprockets  and  this  drum  to  provide  reservoirs  of  film  from 
which  the  drum  may  draw  a  constant  supply. 

Since,  under  these  conditions,  the  sprocket  speed  is  fixed  and 
will  only  mesh  perfectly  with  one  particular  film  of  known  shrink- 
age, the  drum  speed  must  be  variable  since  it  is  required  to  rotate 
at  a  speed  not  dependent  upon  the  sprockets  but  upon  the  film 
itself  and,  more  particularly,  upon  the  condition  of  shrinkage 
within  any  given  film.  The  drum  must  not  be  positively  driven  by 
gears,  belts  or  similar  mechanisms  unless  some  means  is  provided 
to  vary  the  ratio  between  the  drum  and  the  sprocket  speeds.  This 
ratio  must  be  capable  of  continuous  variation  and  must  be  auto- 
matically controlled  by  the  film  itself  -  preferably  by  the  changes 
in  loop  length  between  the  sprockets  and  drum  which  would  take 
place  as  the  sprocket  teeth  or  gear  inaccuracies  came  into  play. 

Magnetic  Drum  Drives 

Although  the  simplest  method  of  driving  such  a  drum  is  by 
allowing  the  film  to  act  as  a  belt  and  automatically  cause  rotation  - 
when  the  actual  speed  of  rotation  can  then  be  modified  by  an 
idler  roller  bearing  on  a  loop  between  the  drum  and  sprockets  - 


SOUND    REDUCTION    PRINTING 


319 


this  system  suffers  from  several  disadvantages  and  drive  through  a 
'magnetic  couple'  has  been  found  to  be  more  efficient.  Magnetic 
drive  may  be  applied  by  several  means,  one  of  which  is  seen  in 
Figure  140.  In  this  design  a  heavy  flywheel  is  solidly  connected 
with  the  film  drum  and  a  copper  ring  is  attached  to  one  face  so  that 
it  must  rotate  at  the  speed  of  the  flywheel.  A  series  of  magnetic 
pole  pieces  are  mounted  in  close  proximity  to  the  copper  ring 
but  are  not  solidly  connected  to  it.  These  pole  pieces  are  connected 
to  the  gear  train  which  drives  the  sprocket  wheels  and  they  are 
arranged  to  rotate  some  15  to  20%  faster  than  the  normal  drum 
speed.  Under  balanced  conditions  the  magnets  will  therefore 
exert  a  forward  torque  to  the  flywheel  and  this  torque  is  arranged 
to  just  balance  the  frictional  losses  in  the  flywheel  and  so  relieve 
the  film  from  any  strain. 

The  forward  torque  thus  applied  to  the  flywheel  is  proportional 
to  the  relative  velocity  between  the  magnets  and  the  copper  ring. 
It  is  because  of  this  fact  that  oscillating  or  irregular  driving  forces 
are  effectively  damped  out  and  eliminated  from  the  film  drum. 
Obviously,  if  the  flywheel  should  tend  to  run  at  a  speed  above  the 
selected  level  it  will  receive  only  a  slight  assistance  from  the 
magnetic  torque  whereas,  if  it  should  tend  to  run  at  a  speed  lower 
than  normal,  it  will  receive  a  much  greater  assistance  from  this 
torque.  An  alternating  torque,  in  phase  with  but  opposing  any 
oscillations  which  may  be  applied  to  the  flywheel,  is  thereby 
super-imposed  upon  the  constant  magnetic  torque  and  the  size 
of  this  supplementary  torque  is  controlled  by  the  oscillations  which 
are  attacking  the  steady  motion  of  the  flywheel. 

One  may  at  first  imagine  that  such  a  system  would  only  be  efficient 
if  the  magnets  themselves  were  rotated  at  a  perfectly  uniform 


FLYWHEEL    SOLDLY    CONNECTED 
TO  FILM  DRUM. 


COPPER    RING    ATTACHED 
TO  FLYWHEEL. 


MULTI-POLE    ELECTRQ-MAGN&T 

SOLIDLY  COUPLED  TO  DRIVING 
GEARS,  BUT  ONLY    CONNECTED 
BY  FIELD   STRENGTH  TO  THE 
COPPER    RING   I  FLYWHEEL. 


Fig.  1 10.— Magnetic  drive  to  scanning  drums. 


320  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

speed  and  that  the  initial  cause  of  irregularities  had  been  divided 
so  that  the  part  which  was  contributed  by  the  sprocket  wheels 
had  been  removed  to  a  somewhat  safer  distance  from  the  scanning 
point  but  that  the  irregularities  due  to  the  gear  train  would  still 
be  present  in  the  magnetic  couple.  The  following  consideration  of 
a  theoretical  case  will  show  this  to  be  far  from  correct.  Let  us 
assume  that  the  gearing  in  the  mechanism  is  so  inaccurate  that  a 
rise  and  fall  in  speed  of  1  %  is  applied  to  the  magnet  every  sixth 
of  a  second.  Now,  remembering  that  the  magnet  is  rotating  20  % 
faster  than  the  film  drum,  this  variation  in  driving  speed  will  only 
be  important  to  the  difference  between  film  drum  and  magnet 
speeds.  The  magnet  may  be  said  to  rotate  at  120%  the  speed  of 
the  film  drum  and,  of  course,  1  %  of  120  is  1  -2.  Now  1  -2  of  the 
20%  difference  between  the  drum  and  magnet  speeds  is  a  6% 
change  in  the  excess  of  magnet  speed  over  the  drum  speed. 

If  a  flywheel  of  the  type  used  in  these  machines  is  permitted  to 
come  to  rest  naturally,  and  from  full  operating  speed,  it  will  com- 
plete this  action  in  approximately  30-seconds,  and  the  speed  lost 
in  the  first  second  will  be  approximately  1  /20th  of  full  speed.  Now 
a  6  %  change  in  the  'over-drive'  of  the  magnetic  ring  will  cause  a 
flywheel  to  change  speed  at  the  rate  of  6  %  of  1  /20th  of  full  speed. 
It  must  be  remembered  that  the  gear  inaccuracies  do  not  occur  at 
intervals  of  one  second,  but  at  intervals  of  1  /6th  of  a  second.  The 
change  in  flywheel  speed  will  therefore  only  be  1  %  of  l/20th  of 
full  speed  and,  since  this  change  is  from  the  minimum  to  the 
maximum  variation,  the  magnitude  of  change  from  the  average 
speed  will  only  be  1  %  of  1  /40th  of  full  speed.  This  amazingly 
low  variation  occurs  when  exceptionally  bad  gearing  is  used  in  the 
mechanism  and,  therefore,  the  normal  variation,  which  could  be 
expected  when  average  gearing  is  employed,  would  be  even 
smaller  than  the  calculated  amount. 

Optical  reduction  printing  machines  of  the  'straight-line'  type, 
in  which  the  optical  path  is  along  a  single  axis,  have  therefore 
been  designed  to  accommodate  film  drums  at  both  the  35-mm  and 
16-mm  exposing  planes,  and  each  drum  may  be  magnetically 
driven  in  the  manner  here  described.  It  is  thereby  possible  to 
obtain  the  advantages  of  a  more  simple  optical  system  without 
incurring  the  greater  mechanical  errors  usually  associated  with 
this  type  of  machine. 

Sprocket  Design 

The  foregoing  considerations  pre-suppose  that  the  accuracy  with 

which  the  sprocket  teeth  can  be  made  and,  more  particularly 


SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING  321 

the  accuracy  with  which  any  given  film  will  exactly  mesh  with 
such  sprockets,  is  lower  than  desirable  for  adequate  reduction 
printing.  Whilst  this  is  no  longer  true  in  some  cases,  it  certainly 
does  hold  true  unless  the  highest  quality  workmanship  and  design 
are  employed  to  produce  sprockets  within  very  close  tolerances 
and,  since  a  large  number  of  printers  do  rely  on  this  method  of 
film  traction,  it  is  necessary  to  consider  very  briefly  the  main 
factors  controlling  sprocket  design. 

Diagram  'A',  Figure  141,  shows  the  relationship  between  a 
section  of  film  and  a  sprocket  wheel  specifically  designed  to  mesh 
with  that  film.  Here  it  is  seen  that,  over  the  area  of  complete 
contact  between  the  film  and  sprocket,  and  excluding  those 
sections  which  are  partially  engaged,  every  sprocket  tooth  is  in 
contact  with  the  leading  edge  of  its  respective  perforation  and,  in 
consequence,  the  driving  load  is  equally  distributed  amongst  all 
the  engaged  teeth.  If  this  condition  could  be  maintained  in  practice 
the  film  would  move  at  speeds  exactly  equal  to  those  of  the 
sprockets  themselves  -  that  is,  the  only  variations  in  film  speed 
would  be  due  to  variations  in  the  gear  train  and  no  'flutter'  would 
be  introduced  as  one  perforation  ceased  to  be  engaged  or  a  new 
perforation  was  brought  into  contact  with  the  teeth. 

As  is  well  known,  both  nitrate  and  acetate  film  bases  are  con- 
tinually shrinking  (if  only  by  a  very  minute  amount)  throughout 
their  useful  life  although,  super-imposed  upon  this  very  gradual 
contraction,  may  be  other  and  larger  variations  in  length  solely 
dependent  upon  the  atmospherics  conditions.  These  larger 
variations  may  either  increase  or  decrease  the  apparent  film  length 
but,  unless  exceptionally  severe,  will  not  cause  a  permanent 
deformation  and  films  subjected  to  changes  in  humidity  may 
easily  be  reconditioned  to  bring  their  dimensions  back  almost 
to  those  which  obtained  before  the  changes  took  place.  In  a  paper 
published  in  the  September  1945  issue  of  the  Journal  of  the 
Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers,  R.  H.  Talbot,  of  the 
Eastman  Kodak  Company  gives  the  following  figures  for  the 
shrinkage  of  nitrate  film:  -  (a)  that  due  to  processing  may  be 
expected  to  be  0- 1  %  along  the  film  length  and  0-15%  across  its 
width,  (b)  that  due  to  changing  humidity  may  be  0  •  2  %  along  the 
length  and  0-25%  across  the  width,  (c)  the  shrinkage  which  may 
be  expected  after  the  film  has  been  kept  for  one  year  is  approxi- 
mately 0-3  %  along  the  length  and  0-4%  across  the  film  width. 

Diagram  *B',  Figure  141  indicates  the  condition  which  exists 
when  film  having  a  short  perforation  pitch  is  meshed  with  a  sprocket 
made  to  the  correct  dimensions.  It  is  important  to  notice  that, 

21 


322 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  141.— The  design  of  sprocket  teeth. 

under  these  conditions,  all  the  load  is  taken  by  the  leading  sprocket 
tooth,  that  is,  tooth  No.  1  or  the  tooth  from  which  the  film  is 
just  about  to  strip  as  the  sprocket  rotates  in  the  direction  indicated 
by  the  arrow.  Obviously,  any  argument  applied  to  a  sprocket 
rotating  in  this  manner,  that  is,  acting  as  a  pulling  sprocket,  will 
be  equally  true  when  the  sprocket  rotates  in  the  opposite  direction 
and  acts  as  a  hold-back  sprocket.  Although  the  film  is  only  driven 
by  tooth  No.  1,  its  speed  will  be  equal  to  that  of  the  sprocket  over 
that  period  during  which  it  is  well  seated  down  at  the  base  of  the 
tooth.  Immediately  the  film  commences  to  strip  from  the  tooth 
and,  therefore,  to  ride  up  the  curved  tooth  face,  its  speed  will  be 
slower  than  that  of  the  sprocket  and  will  remain  in  this  condition 
until  the  following  tooth  and  perforation  come  into  contact. 

It  must  be  understood  that  by  saying  'a  speed  difference  will 
exist'  we  mean  a  difference  in  angular  speed  since,  of  course,  the 
linear  speed  of  the  upper  film  surface  must,  under  all  conditions, 
be  greater  than  the  linear  speed  of  the  base  side  which  is  in  contact 
with  the  root  of  the  sprocket  tooth.  The  actual,  or  linear  speed  of 
the  film  is  given  by  the  equation:  - 


V  =  ttN  (D  +  t) 

Where    V  =  the  film  velocity, 

N  =  number  of  sprocket  revolutions  per  second 

D  =  sprocket  diameter  at  the  base  circle, 

t  =  the  film  thickness. 


SOUND   REDUCTION  PRINTING  323 

Naturally,  this  formula  only  applies  when  the  film  is  in  true  engage- 
ment with  the  leading  sprocket  tooth  and  is,  therefore,  a  means 
of  obtaining  the  maximum  speed  attained  by  the  film  when  no 
slippage  is  taking  place. 

The  actual  conditions  which  exist  when  the  driving  force 
is  being  transferred  from  one  tooth  to  the  next  is  more  easily 
visualised  from  Figure  142.  In  'position  1'  the  sprocket  is  assumed 
to  be  rotating  in  the  direction  of  the  arrow  and  the  film  is  in  perfect 
contact  at  point  'A'  with  tooth  No.  1.  Because  the  film  is  slightly 
shorter  than  standard  pitch  a  gap  'B'  will  exist  between  the  second 
perforation  and  tooth  No.  2.  Obviously,  as  the  film  commences  to 
leave  the  sprocket  and  to  strip  from  tooth  No.  1,  it  is  necessary 
for  it  to  slip  backwards  with  respect  to  the  sprocket  speed  so  that 
the  second  perforation  may  make  contact  with  tooth  No.  2,  and 
the  driving  force  may  be  applied  once  more. 

If  the  sprocket  teeth  are  shaped  as  a  true  involute,  that  is,  the 
curve  which  would  be  obtained  by  plotting  the  path  of  a  fixed 
point  on  the  film  as  it  were  unwound  from  a  stationary  sprocket, 
the  film  could  strip,  as  in  position  2,  and  the  maximum  speed 
which  existed  all  the  time  the  perforation  was  in  full  contact, 
would  be  maintained  throughout  the  entire  stripping  operation. 
Under  these  conditions  perforation  'A'  would  rise  to  the  peak  of 
tooth  No.  1  and,  during  this  operation  the  maximum  film  speed 
would  be  maintained  but,  since  the  gap  between  the  second 
perforation  and  tooth  No.  2,  as  indicated  at  'B',  would  also  remain 
constant,  the  film  would  jump  backwards  immediately  the  drive 


POSmw  l 


^ 


1 


roanw? 

posmotM 


position  a 
Fig.  142.— -Transmission  of  drive  via  sprocket  teeth. 


324  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

was  removed  from  tooth  No.  1  and  as  perforation  'A'  reached  and 
disengaged  from  the  peak  of  this  tooth. 

The  obvious  remedy  for  this  condition  is  to  shape  the  curved 
tooth  surface  to  a  curvature  more  acute  than  the  true  involute  and, 
when  this  is  done,  the  film  will  gradually  slip  backwards  whilst  the 
leading  edge  is  riding  up  the  tooth  face  during  the  stripping 
operation.  This  condition  is  seen  in  positions  3,  4  and  5.  In 
'position  3'  the  film  has  commenced  to  strip  from  tooth  No.  1 
and,  since  the  curvature  of  this  tooth  is  less  than  the  true  involute, 
the  gap  'C  between  the  next  perforation  and  tooth  No.  2  is  now 
less  than  gap  'B'  in  position  2.  In  'position  4'  the  film  has  nearly 
completed  its  passage  in  stripping  from  tooth  No.  1  and,  in  con- 
sequence, the  gap  'D'  between  the  second  perforation  and  tooth 
No.  2  is  even  less  than  gap  'C  in  'position  3'.  Finally,  in  'position 
5',  the  film  is  just  about  to  disengage  from  tooth  No.  1  and  the 
gap  between  the  second  perforation  and  tooth  No.  2  has  now  been 
eliminated  and  the  drive  has  been  transferred  to  this  new  point  of 
contact. 

It  should  now  be  apparent  that,  under  these  conditions,  the 
film  will  have  two  speeds.  Firstly  the  maximum  speed,  that  is,  the 
speed  which  exists  when  no  stripping  action  is  in  progress  and, 
secondly,  the  slipping  speed  or  that  speed  which  exists  during  the 
time  the  drive  is  being  transferred  from  one  tooth  to  the  next. 
Obviously,  the  same  conditions  will  apply  when  the  film  pitch  is 
longer  than  that  of  the  sprocket  teeth  or  when  the  sprocket  is 
operating  as  a  hold-back  between  the  sound  head  and  the  take-up 
spool  as  in  a  projector  mechanism. 

Three  main  conditions  exist  under  which  the  film  can  move 
at  different  speeds.  Firstly,  when  the  gap  between  the  second 
perforation  and  the  second  tooth  is  not  completely  closed  by  the 
time  the  film  is  completely  stripped  from  the  first  or  driving  tooth. 
This  condition  will  give  rise  to  three  film  motions,  (a)  a  maximum 
speed  during  those  periods  when  no  stripping  is  occuring,  (b)  a 
slower  speed  during  the  time  of  stripping  and  (c)  a  distinct  jump 
backwards  at  the  moment  when  contact  with  the  leading  tooth 
is  lost  and  the  drive  is  transferred  to  the  second  tooth.  Secondly, 
when  the  gap  between  the  second  perforation  and  the  second  tooth 
is  just  closed  at  the  moment  when  the  film  is  completely  stripped 
from  the  first  tooth.  This  condition  gives  rise  to  two  film  speeds, 
(a)  a  maximum  speed  when  no  stripping  is  taking  place  and  (b)  a 
slower  speed  during  the  time  of  stripping.  However,  under  these 
conditions,  no  jump  back  period  will  occur.  Thirdly,  it  can  be 
arranged  that  a  perforation  commences  to  strip  from  a  sprocket 


SOUND   REDUCTION  PRINTING  325 

tooth  immediately  contact  is  made  with  that  tooth  -  under  these 
conditions  the  film  will  always  travel  forward  at  a  constant  speed, 
namely  the  'slip  back'  speed  and,  therefore,  at  a  speed  slower  than 
that  of  the  sprocket  itself. 

It  may  be  thought  that  this  last  arrangement  would  produce 
a  solution  to  the  problem,  but  it  must  be  remembered  that  the 
chances  of  obtaining  a  film  which  obeyed  these  conditions  pre- 
cisely are  exceptionally  remote  and  although  both  this  arrange- 
ment and  that  in  which  the  film  is  of  a  pitch  exactly  equal  to  that 
of  the  sprocket,  each  produce  a  constant  speed,  they  can  only  be 
considered  as  theoretical  examples  and  would  only  be  met  with  in 
practice  on  very  rare  occasions.  The  practical  performance  of  any 
sprocket  and  film  must  inevitably  be  lower  than  the  theoretical 
standard  since,  amongst  other  considerations,  the  shape  of  the 
sprocket  teeth  will  only  be  absolutely  correct  for  a  very  short 
period  during  their  useful  life  and,  even  under  such  conditions, 
would  only  operate  at  maximum  efficiency  if  their  working  faces 
were  glass-smooth  and  accurately  reproduced  from  one  tooth  to 
the  next. 

The  foregoing  considerations  have  merely  shown  that,  even 
under  ideal  conditions,  it  is  not  practical  to  assume  that  perfectly 
uniform  film  motion  may  be  obtained  at  the  arc  of  contact  between 
the  film  and  its  driving  sprocket.  However,  this  conclusion  does 
not  necessarily  indicate  that  those  errors  which  remain  will  be  of 
sufficient  magnitude  to  materially  affect  the  reproduction  of  the 
final  sound  track  -  whether  it  is  produced  by  a  direct  recording 
or  by  reduction  printing.  Obviously,  the  variations  in  film  speed 
will  be  less  in  a  sound  recording  instrument  using  raw  film  stock 
than  they  will  be  in  a  sound  reduction  printer  using  a  processed 
negative  film.  The  normal  variations  from  true  pitch  which  are 
likely  to  be  met  with  in  original  recording  are  of  the  order  of 
0-5%  (this  figure  includes  the  variations  which  may  exist  in  the 
original  perforating  and  those  which  may  occur  if  the  film  is 
stored  for  some  time  under  adverse  conditions).  Under  these 
conditions  any  change  in  the  amount  of  film  moved  forward  by 
a  perfect  and  imperfect  engagement  between  perforations  and 
sprocket  teeth  would  be  a  little  over  0-001 -inch  per  engagement. 
Since  35-mm  film  normally  moves  at  an  average  speed  of  18- 
inches  per  second,  and  assuming  a  9,000-cycle  note  were  recorded, 
this  change  in  constant  speed  would  be  equivalent  to  one  half 
cycle  at  that  frequency  and  would  only  cause  a  very  slight  flutter 
in  the  reproduction. 

It  will  be  apparent  that,  since  a  duplicate  negative  also  includes 


326  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

the  dimensional  changes  produced  by  processing  and  storage, 
that  copy  of  the  sound  track  which  eventually  reaches  the  reduc- 
tion printing  machine  may  contain  additive  variations  between 
true  perforation  pitch  and  the  position  of  any  given  sound  cycle 
amounting  to  as  much  as  10%.  This  variation  would  cause  a 
flutter  of  plus  and  minus  10-cycles  in  a  constant  frequency  record 
of  a  9,000-cycle  note.  Whilst  this  is  admittedly  small  it  must  be 
remembered  that  it  is  a  theoretical  minimum  flutter  which  is 
obtained  when  the  optimum  sprocket  dimensions  are  employed  and 
the  stripping  action  between  one  tooth  and  perforation  is  identical 
to  that  between  any  other  combination  throughout  the  film. 
Obviously,  this  minimum  variation  cannot  be  expected  in  practice 
and,  because  of  this,  the  drum  scanning  systems  mentioned 
previously  were  introduced.  However,  modern  workmanship  and 
design  have  produced  sprocket  wheels  of  a  very  high  order  of 
accuracy  and  some  present-day  reduction  printing  machines 
employing  only  this  means  of  film  traction  past  the  scanning  point 
produce  exceptionally  good  sound  prints. 

Optical  Systems  in  Reduction  Printers 

From  the  foregoing  mechanical  considerations  it  will  be  realised 
that  three  main  types  of  reduction  printing  equipment  exist. 
Firstly,  those  machines  in  which  the  35-mm  and  16-mm  films  and 
optical  systems  are  all  arranged  along  one  axis  and  which  employ 
sprocket  wheels  to  move  the  films  past  the  scanning  apertures, 
secondly,  similar  'straight-line'  machines  which  employ  mag- 
netically driven  drums  or  similar  devices  at  the  scanning  aper- 
tures and,  thirdly,  machines  which  obtain  mechanical  efficiency  by 
mounting  the  16-mm  and  35-mm  sprockets  along-side  each  other 
on  common  shafts  and  which,  therefore,  require  an  optical 
system  of  somewhat  different  design. 

As  stated  previously,  the  sound  reduction  printing  process 
requires  an  optical  system  capable  of  reducing  an  image  more  in 
the  direction  of  its  height  than  is  caused  in  the  direction  of  width. 
One  of  the  earliest  systems  used  to  produce  this  result  was  employed 
with  partial  success  for  some  time  although,  theoretically,  it  is 
incapable  of  high  quality  results.  The  outline  of  this  system  is  seen 
diagramatically  in  Figure  143,  which  is  a  plan  view  of  the  apparatus. 
The  lamp  and  condenser  lens  have  been  omitted  from  the  diagram 
but  it  will  be  realised  that  such  components  are  required  to 
evenly  illuminate  the  35-mm  sound  track  area  and,  when  no  film 
is  located  in  that  plane,  the  light  beam  will  come  to  a  focus  near 
the  rear  component  of  the  objective  lens. 


SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING 


327 


The  objective  lens  is  designed  to  produce  an  image  in  the  16-mm 
plane  which  is  2-5  times  smaller  than  the  track  on  the  35-mm 
film.  This  reduction  ratio  is,  therefore,  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements  along  the  film  length  but,  as  was  indicated  earlier, 
the  reduction  across  the  width  must  not  be  to  an  equal  extent.  In 
the  normal  manner  the  plane  in  which  the  reduced  image  would  be 
focussed  is  indicated  at  point  'A'  but,  by  introducing  a  small 
mirror  into  the  light  beam,  the  rays  are  deflected  to  position  CB\ 
It  must  be  realised  that  the  purpose  of  this  mirror  is  to  spread  the 
image  in  a  direction  across  the  film  width  and,  since  the  mirror 
is  perfectly  flat,  it  will  have  no  effect  upon  the  convergence  of 
the  beam  in  the  direction  along  the  film  length.  Obviously,  the 
mirror  must  be  of  very  high  quality  and  must  be  surface  silvered  - 
that  is,  the  first  surface  which  the  light  strikes  must  carry  the 
reflecting  medium  and  not  the  rear  surface  as  would  be  the  case 
with  a  mirror  silvered  in  the  normal  manner. 

The  action  of  the  mirror  is  seen  more  clearly  in  sketch  *C\ 
Figure  143,  which  shows  a  perspective  view  of  the  four  principle 
rays  as  they  are  reflected.  That  the  reduction  of  2-5  along  the 
film  length  is  carried  out  correctly  is  indicated  by  the  convergence 
of  vertical  rays  to  points  'D'  and  'E\  The  focus  is  not  so  complete 
in  the  horizontal  direction  and,  in  consequence,  a  separation 
exists  between  points  'D'  and  'E'  in  this  plane  which  corresponds 
to  the  image  'spreading'  effect  produced  by  the  mirror.  It  should 
therefore  be  apparent  that,  at  its  best,  this  system  can  only  be  a 
compromise  since  it  is  impossible  to  maintain  all  points  across 
the  16-mm  aperture  in  critical  focus  at  once.  In  practice  it  is  usual 
to  arrange  that  the  centre  of  the  aperture  shall  be  critically  focused 
and  that  the  edges  shall  be  out  of  focus  by  equal  amounts.  When 
this  type  of  mechanism  was  introduced  in  the  earlier  days  of  sound 


2  5  TIMES 
REDUCING    LENS 


SURFACE    SILVERED 
MIRROR 


I6MM  film 


Fig.  143. — Early  optical  reduction  of  sound  tracks. 


328 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


CYLINDRICAL  LENS 
NOT  ACTIVE 


CYLINDRCAL  LENS 
NOT  ACTIVE 


© 


CYLINDRICAL  LENS  — .  CYLINDRICAL  LENS 

ACTIVE  (g)  ACTlyE 

Fig.  144. — The  anamorphote  lens  system  of  optical  reduction. 

reduction  printing  it  was  capable  of  quite  adequate  work  since  no 
more  accurate  machine  existed  with  which  it  could  be  compared. 
However,  modern  reduction  printing  requires  a  standard  of 
accuracy  which  is  beyond  the  limits  of  this  device  although,  of 
course,  it  must  be  recognised  as  a  most  ingenious  manner  of  over- 
coming a  considerable  difficulty. 


The  Anamorphote  Lens  System 

The  modern  arrangement  of  lenses  used  in  a  'straight'  reduction 
printer  is  seen  in  Figure  144.  In  general  these  arrangements  are 
known  as  the  'anamorphote'  systems  and  employ  two  microscope 
objectives  with  two  uncorrected  cylindrical  lenses  between  them  - 
both  the  cylindrical  lenses  being  operative  in  the  same  plane. 
A  cylindrical  lens  has  a  curvature  in  one  plane  only,  and,  therefore, 
would,  of  itself,  cause  images  to  converge  to  a  thin  line  instead  of  a 
focal  point.  Diagram  'A'  shows  a  side  elevation  of  the  system,  the 
direction  of  film  travel  being  indicated  by  the  arrows  at  the  plane 
of  each  film  gate.  It  is  important  to  note  that,  in  this  plane,  the 
cylindrical  lenses  present  parallel  faces  to  the  light  rays  and, 
therefore,  are  unable  to  affect  the  system.  In  this  plane  the  light 
rays  are  focussed  solely  by  the  microscope  objectives  and  the 
image  reduction  is  in  the  ratio  of  2-5:1,  that  is,  a  magnification 
of  0-400  which  is,  of  course,  the  ratio  of  the  film  speeds  in  linear 
measure. 


SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING 


329 


Diagram  *B'  shows  a  plan  view  of  the  system  and  indicates 
that  in  this  plane  the  cylindrical  lenses  are  operative.  Acting 
together  these  lenses  modify  the  system  so  that,  in  this  plane  only, 
the  width  of  the  16-mm  image  is  85  %  of  the  width  of  the  original 
35-mm  track.  It  will  be  realised  that  maximum  image  resolution 
is  essential  in  the  longitudinal  plane,  or  as  in  Diagram  'A',  to  ensure 
that  the  highest  frequencies  are  successfully  printed  and  that,  in 
this  plane,  only  the  achromatic  lenses  are  operative.  These  lenses 
are  therefore  of  the  highest  quality  and,  to  further  increase  the 
image  definition,  are  normally  operated  at  an  aperture  lower  than 
their  possible  maximum.  In  the  transverse  plane,  or  as  in  Diagram 
'B',  the  required  image  definition  is  not  so  high  and,  therefore,  the 
fact  that  the  cylindrical  lenses  are  uncorrected  and  of  lower  quality 
than  the  achromats,  may  be  safely  permitted  and  will  not  give  rise 
to  poor  quality  in  the  resultant  print. 

When  used  with  those  printing  machines  in  which  the  16-mm  and 
35-mm  sprockets  are  mounted  side  by  side  on  a  common  spindle 
the  anamorphote  lens  system  is  usually  arranged  as  shown  in 
Figure  145.  This  figure  indicates  a  plan  view  of  the  layout  and  it 
should  be  remembered  that  sprockets  'A'  and  'B'  are  driven  through 
a  gear  reduction  unit  'C  from  a  motor  housed  within  the  main 
body  of  the  instrument.  The  two  main  functions  to  be  performed 
by  the  optical  system  are  therefore  (a)  to  uniformly  illuminate  the 
35-mm  track  aperture  'D'  and  (b)  to  transfer  the  image  from 
position  'D'  to  position  'E'  on  the  16-mm  film.  Since  it  is  very 


Fig.  145. — The  anamorphote  lens  system  in  a  typical  printing  machine  layout. 


330  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

difficult  to  manufacture  a  split  sprocket  wheel,  having  a  gap 
formed  around  the  circumference  at  the  position  of  the  sound 
track,  it  is  generally  found  that  the  35-mm  sprocket  consists  of 
one  half  only.  This  is  indicated  at  'B'  and  it  is  usual  to  provide  a 
stationary  curved  gate  through  which  the  sprocket  teeth  project 
and  over  which  the  film  may  ride.  A  small  stationary  aperture 
may  then  be  cut  in  the  gate  in  the  position  of  the  sound  track  and 
centred  with  the  optical  axis  of  the  lens  system.  Since  the  hub  of 
the  35-mm  sprocket  projects  some  distance  beyond  the  sprocket 
flange  it  is  not  possible  to  illuminate  the  35-mm  gate  by  a  straight 
optical  system. 

Light  from  a  heavy  filament  -  low  voltage  lamp  'L'  is  used  to 
illuminate  the  track,  lens  '(V  forming  an  image  of  the  filament 
at  the  plane  of  lens  'Og'  whilst  lens  '02'  forms  an  image  of  the 
uniformly  illuminated  lens  '(V  at  the  plane  of  the  35-mm  track. 
Since,  in  this  arrangement,  the  lamphouse  must  be  located  to  one 
side  of  the  driving  motor,  it  is  necessary  to  turn  the  light  beam 
through  a  right-angle  by  employing  a  prism  'P^  between  the  two 
lenses  'CV  and  '02'.  After  passing  through  lens  '02'  the  light  beam 
is  displaced  inwards  towards  the  rotating  sprocket  by  a  small 
double  prism  ab  shown  at  T2\  The  required  image  reduction  is 
then  obtained  by  the  use  of  two  cylindrical  lenses  '03'  and  '05' 
and  one  high  quality  spherical  lens  *04\  Lenses  '03'  and  '05' 
are  only  operative  in  the  lateral  plane  and  serve  to  partially  neutral- 
ise the  power  of  the  spherical  lens.  In  the  longitudinal  plane 
objective  lens  '04'  is  alone  controlling  the  image  formation  since 
lenses  '03'  and  '05'  have  no  curvature  in  this  plane.  The  large 
prism  'P3'  -  known  as  a  roof  prism  -  not  only  directs  the  fight 
from  the  35-mm  side  of  the  machine  around  to  the  16-mm  side 
but  also  inverts  the  image  in  the  longitudinal  direction  so  that  the 
image  formed  on  the  16-mm  film  travels  in  the  same  direction  as 
the  film  itself. 

Design  of  Printing  Gates 

With  machines  of  the  type  just  described  it  is  obviously  necessary 
to  use  stationary  gates  at  the  printing  point  and  to  cause  the  film 
to  slide  over  these  surfaces  by  engagement  with  sprocket  teeth 
arranged  to  project  through  a  slot  in  the  gates.  The  gates  must 
therefore  be  formed  in  a  curved  path  and  mounted  in  close 
proximity  to  the  sprocket  wheels  as  seen  in  Figure  146.  This 
figure  shows  a  side  elevation  of  the  layout  of  one  film  path  -  it 
may  be  either  the  16-mm  or  35-mm  side  of  the  machine  since  both 
are  identical  in  arrangement  although  somewhat  different  in  actual 


SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING  331 

size.  Film  passes  from  the  supply  spool  'A'  over  a  constant  speed 
feeding  sprocket  'B'  and  is  then  caused  to  assume  the  curvature  of 
the  stationary  gate  'K'  by  means  of  four  rollers,  two  of  which 
are  mounted  above  and  below  the  gate  and  are  indicated  at 
positions  *H'  and  'J';  the  remaining  pair  being  mounted  to  pivot 
about  the  centres  at  'F'  and  'G'  and  so  to  accommodate  the  free 
loops  between  the  gate  and  the  feeding  and  hold-back  sprockets. 
The  film  then  passes  via  the  lower  hold-back  sprocket  'D'  to  the 
take-up  spool  *E\ 

The  counter- weight  applied  to  rollers  'F'  and  'G'  may  either 
be  of  a  positive  or  negative  form.  At  position  'F'  it  is  assumed 
that  the  counter-weight  will  cause  the  roller  arm  to  pivot  about 
point  'L'  and  so  increase  the  effective  weight  of  the  roller  on  the 
film  -  that  is,  the  counter-weight  will  be  added  to  the  weight  of 
the  guide  roller  itself.  At  position  'G'  the  counter- weight  will  cause 
rotation  of  the  roller  arm  about  position  'M'  and  will  serve  to 
increase  the  effective  tension  on  the  film  between  the  lower  gate 
roller  'J'  and  the  hold-back  sprocket  'D\ 

It  will  be  realised  that  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the  stationary 
gate  *K'  must  be  slightly  greater  than  that  of  the  central  sprocket 
'C  so  that  the  sprocket  teeth  just  project  through  the  slot  cut  in 
the  gate  channel.  Since  the  film  is  therefore  only  driven  through 
the  exposing  gate  by  teeth  engaged  with  one  set  of  perforations 
it  is  necessary  to  apply  some  form  of  edge-guides  to  position  the 
film  laterally  and  to  prevent  'film  weave'  or  movement  across  the 
exposing  aperture.  This  is  usually  accomplished  by  applying  a 
spring  loaded  shoe  to  one  side  of  the  film  and  locating  the  opposite 
side  of  the  film  against  an  adjustable  stationary  guide.  This  adjust- 
able guide  may  be  moved  into  or  away  from  the  film  channel  by 
rotating  a  calibrated  hand  wheel  controlling  a  gear  mechanism 
used  to  locate  the  guide  shoe.  This  arrangement  makes  it  possible 
to  place  any  sound  track  centrally  with  respect  to  the  printing 
aperture,  regardless  of  the  fact  that  it  may  have  been  originally 
recorded  some  distance  from  the  standard  position  as  specified  by 
the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers. 

It  is  therefore  seen  that  the  film  is  held  under  considerable  side 
tension  as  it  passes  through  the  gate  but  only  under  very  slight 
longitudinal  tension,  controlled  by  the  weighted  rollers  'F'  and 
*G'  to  be  just  sufficient  to  cause  it  to  remain  in  engagement  with 
the  sprocket  teeth.  Those  who  have  had  experience  with  machines 
in  which  film  passes  over  a  stationary  surface  will  appreciate  that 
the  continual  passage  of  millions  of  feet  of  film  will  cause  con- 
siderable wear  to  the  surfaces  and,  inevitably,  scratches  will 


332 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


CURVED    STATIONARY        ^  § 
POINTING    GATE 


Fig.  146. — Location  of  film  gate  and  sprocket  teeth  in  "stationary-gate  printers". 


occur  in  the  finish  of  the  metal  into  which  small  particles  of 
film  base  will  become  lodged.  Once  any  such  surface  becomes 
scratched  the  small  particles  of  film  base  will  continue  to  accumu- 
late and  to  form  into  small  pockets  of  an  exceptionally  sharp 
character  which  will  cause  an  ever  increasing  scratch  to  any  films 
which  are  subsequently  passed  through  the  machine. 

In  the  design  shown  in  Figure  146  four  main  sources  of  this 
trouble  are  present.  Firstly,  stripper  plates,  shown  at  'P'  and  'Q* 
are  located  just  past  that  point  on  the  sprocket  wheels  'B'  and  *D' 
where  the  film  moves  out  of  engagement  from  the  sprocket  teeth 
and,  since  the  film  will  bear  lightly  on  the  surface  of  these  plates, 
longitudinal  scratches  may  be  caused  at  these  points  after  a 
considerable  amount  of  film  has  been  printed.  Secondly,  the 
pressure  of  contact  between  the  curved  gate  and  the  film  will, 
after  considerably  less  film  has  been  printed,  give  rise  to  further 
longitudinal  scratches  -  the  reason  for  this  is  that  the  pressure  at 
this  point  is  much  greater  than  at  the  stripper  plates.  Finally, 
the  contact  between  the  film  and  the  edge-guides  mounted  within 
the  sides  of  the  gate  is  at  a  much  higher  tension  and  scratches  at 
these  points  may  develop  very  rapidly.  Although  damage  to 
the  film  edge  may  not  appear  to  be  so  serious  it  may  cause  a 
film  to  be  printed  with  considerable  flutter,  due  to  the  varying 
load  between  the  edge-guides  and  the  rough  film  edge,  or  may 
cause  the  track  to  become  misplaced  with  respect  to  the  exposing 
aperture.  It  is  not  uncommon  for  springs,  used  to  guide  the 


SOUND  REDUCTION  PRINTING  333 

film  at  this  point,  to  be  cut  completely  away  unless  attention 
has  been  given  to  this  possibility  by  regular  inspection  and 
replacement. 

Obviously,  all  stationary  surfaces  must  be  maintained  with 
a  scratch-free  mirror  surface  if  valuable  35-mm  negatives  are  to 
be  safeguarded.  This  observation,  and  the  previous  discussion  on 
the  probable  sources  of  scratching  applies  equally  well  to  all 
machines  and  particularly  to  those  in  which  non-rotating  surfaces 
are  employed.  Since  it  is  easier  to  finish  soft  metals  to  a  high 
polish  it  is  usual  to  find  such  parts  manufactured  in  brass  which, 
after  polishing,  are  coated  with  an  exceptionally  hard  deposit  such 
as  some  forms  of  chromium  plating.  Many  people  are  of  the 
opinion  that  chromium  plating  of  itself  imparts  a  high  polish  to  a 
metal  surface  -  this  is  quite  inaccurate  and,  unless  the  base  metal 
has  been  previously  worked  to  a  finish  equal  to  that  required  after 
the  plating  operation,  it  will  be  found  that  small  scratches  or 
abrasions  which  were  not  removed  not  only  remain  present  but  are, 
in  fact,  greatly  accentuated.  This  is  an  unavoidable  occurence  with 
electro-deposition  due  to  crystal  growth  at  the  edges  of  a  surface 
and  can  only  be  eliminated  by  careful  workmanship  before  the 
plating  is  applied. 

Although  the  foregoing  observations  may  be  thought  to  indicate 
the  use  of  stainless  steel  at  all  such  vital  points  it  has  been  found 
that,  once  a  mirror  surface  has  been  obtained  on  soft  metal  and 
repeated  in  the  plated  deposit,  the  resultant  hardness  and  resistance 
to  scratching  can  be  higher  than  obtained  with  stainless  steel. 

Printer  Illumination 

In  common  with  most  other  printing  operations,  the  sound 
reduction  printer  requires  a  steady  source  of  illumination. 
Obviously,  any  variation  in  exposure  will  reduce  the  quality  of 
the  final  sound  reproduction  although  the  nature  of  the  defect 
may  cause  other  stages  in  the  process  to  be  suspected  rather  than 
the  light  source.  For  example,  small  increases  in  lamp  brightness 
above  the  selected  intensity  may  so  badly  over-expose  the  print 
that  the  high  frequencies  are  'filled  in'  and,  since  this  would 
occur  at  the  frequency  of  the  lamp  current  variations,  would  result 
in  the  periodic  loss  of  high  response  and  consequent  introduction 
of  a  low  frequency.  A  similar  effect  is  produced  when  exposure 
variations  tend  towards  low  intensities  when,  once  more,  the  high 
frequencies  are  the  first  to  be  noticably  affected  and  are  period- 
ically lost  at  a  frequency  equal  to  that  of  the  lamp  current  variations. 
In  all  cases  it  is  advisable  to  operate  the  printing  lamp  from  a 


334  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Direct  Current  supply,  preferably  through  a  stabilizing  circuit. 
Even  when  such  heavy  duty  lamps  as  the  250-watt,  50-volt  5-amp 
projector  type  sources  are  used  it  is  impossible  to  operate  them  on 
Alternating  Current  circuits  if  the  best  results  are  to  be  achieved. 
Under  such  conditions  the  filament  temperature  changes  suffici- 
ently during  each  cycle  of  the  A.C.  supply  to  cause  variations  in 
exposure  and  consequently  some  100-cycle  modulation  in  the 
resultant  print.  Naturally,  the  magnitude  of  this  interference  is 
dependent,  to  a  large  extent,  upon  the  speed  of  the  printer  and  the 
size  of  the  exposing  aperture.  If  the  film  speed  is  very  low  and  the 
exposing  aperture  relatively  large,  it  may  be  difficult  to  detect  any 
modulation  when  an  A.C.  supply  and  a  heavy  filament  lamp  are  in 
use.  However,  from  a  practical  point  of  view,  such  limited  operating 
conditions  would  considerably  reduce  the  machine  output  and 
consequently,  increase  the  cost  of  each  print  so  produced. 

Those  copies  of  35-mm  films  which  are  sent  to  Trade  Laboratories 
when  reduction  prints  to  16-mm  width  are  required  are  invariably 
matched  or  graded  copies  -  at  least  so  far  as  the  sound  negative  is 
concerned.  This  means  that  a  complete  1,000-ft  roll  of  35-mm 
sound  negative  can  be  printed  at  one  lamp  intensity  although  the 
actual  lamp  current  may  need  to  be  adjusted  from  one  negative  to 
the  next.  Quite  clearly  this  indicates  that  some  resistance  control 
must  be  connected  within  the  lamp  circuit,  but  that  rapid  exposure 
changes  -  similar  to  those  met  with  when  some  picture  negatives  are 
printed  -  will  not  be  necessary  in  this  case. 

It  is  usual  practice  to  calibrate  the  resistance  control  in  terms  of 
settings  required  to  produce  an  optimum  print  from  any  given 
negative  of  known  unmodulated  density.  This  can  best  be  arranged 
by  first  producing  a  series  of  35-mm  negatives,  each  of  which  is 
increased  in  density  by  a  known  amount  when  compared  with  its 
predecessor.  Each  negative  is  then  printed  at  a  series  of  exposure 
values  and  the  optimum  print  serves  to  indicate  the  region  of  correct 
exposure. 

It  is  very  important  to  realise  that  the  foregoing  method 
will  only  give  a  rough  indication  of  the  correct  exposure  and  that 
this  preliminary  setting  will,  in  any  case,  only  be  of  value  when 
the  film  processing  solutions  and  photographic  speed  of  the  film 
stock  are  known  to  be  held  within  close  tolerances  of  their  optimum 
values. 

Methods  of  producing  16-mm  Sound  Tracks 

As  explained  previously,  the  sound  reduction  printing  process  has 

been  dealt  with  in  some  detail  because  it  is  the  most  widely  used 


SOUND   REDUCTION  PRINTING  335 

system  for  making  16-mm  copies  from  35-mm  original  films. 
However,  it  is  now  necessary  to  consider  briefly  those  other  methods 
which  may  be  employed  for  the  same  purpose.  A  very  logical  step 
is  to  make  one  master  positive  copy  onto  16-mm  film  by  means  of 
the  optical  reduction  printer  and  from  this  positive  to  produce  a 
duplicate  negative  -  again  on  16-mm  film.  This  duplicate  negative 
may  then  be  used  to  produce  the  many  positive  copies  required  for 
release  and  such  copies,  together  with  the  duplicate  negative 
itself,  may  be  made  on  a  rotary  contact  printer.  The  advantages  of 
using  such  a  contact  printer  are  that  a  somewhat  higher  speed  of 
printing  may  be  obtained,  that  optical  slippage  -  always  a  probab- 
ility with  the  reduction  printing  process  -  is  eliminated  and  that 
wear  and  tear  on  the  original  35-mm  sound  negative  is  reduced  to  a 
minimum. 

These  advantages  are  only  obtained  in  practice  at  the  expense 
of  other  more  valuable  characteristics  of  the  reduction  printing 
process.  Firstly,  the  use  of  a  16-mm  duplicate  negative  means  that 
the  emulsion  grain  present  in  the  35-mm  negative  has  been  con- 
densed onto  the  duplicate  but  that  the  grain  inherent  in  this 
duplicate  is  printed  without  any  further  reduction  onto  successive 
positive  copies.  It  is  not  possible  within  the  present  work  to  con- 
sider the  phenomenon  of  emulsion  'graininess'  in  any  detail,  but  it 
should  be  apparent  that  the  combination  of  three  silver  images 
(in  the  case  of  duplicate  contact  printing)  is  more  liable  to  produce 
a  final  positive  copy  having  a  high  graininess  (and  consequent  low 
resolution)  than  is  the  combination  of  only  two  silver  images  as 
occurs  when  16-mm  positive  sound  tracks  are  produced  by  direct 
optical  reduction.  It  is  quite  true  that,  given  16-mm  duplicating 
material  of  very  fine  grain  structure,  contact  printing  may  be  used 
to  produce  adequate  results  but,  inevitably,  the  introduction  of 
intermediate  stages  requires  that  the  entire  process  shall  be  more 
rigidly  controlled  if  high  resolution  is  to  be  maintained.  The  effect 
of  the  intermediate  stages  may  be  reduced  if  a  35-mm  positive 
sound  track  is  used  to  produce  a  16-mm  duplicate  negative 
directly  in  the  optical  reduction  printer.  This  method  reduces  the 
final  graininess  somewhat  since  one  stage  has  been  transferred 
from  the  16-mm  section  up  to  the  35-mm  section.  The  actual  steps 
from  the  35-mm  original  down  to  the  final  16-mm  print  are  more 
easily  appreciated  by  reference  to  Figure  147  in  which  all  three 
processes  are  compared. 

In  sketch  'A',  Figure  147,  the  straightforward  production  of  a 
16-mm  positive  copy  from  an  original  35-mm  negative  by  means 
of  the  optical  reduction  printing  machine  is  seen  to  involve  only 


336  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

two  film  emulsions,  the  35-mm  original  and  the  16-mm  positive 
copy.  In  sketch  'B'  it  is  assumed  that  a  35-mm  negative  has  been 
supplied  to  the  Laboratory  and,  by  use  of  the  optical  reduction 
printer,  a  16-mm  positive  copy  is  produced.  This  16-mm  copy  is 
then  used  to  produce  a  16-mm  duplicate  negative  by  printing  the 
two  in  contact  on  a  continuous  or  rotary  machine.  Finally,  the 
duplicate  negative  is  used  to  produce  the  many  16-mm  positive 
copies  which  are  made  on  the  rotary  contact  printer.  In  sketch  'C 
the  first  copying  operation  is  not  to  produce  a  16-mm  positive - 
as  was  the  case  in  sketch  'B'  -  but  to  produce  a  35-mm  positive. 
This  35-mm  positive  is  then  used  to  produce  a  16-mm  duplicate 
negative  via  the  reduction  printer  and  in  one  operation.  This 
duplicate  negative  is  then  used  to  make  the  many  16-mm  positive 
copies  on  the  rotary  contact  printer. 

Assuming  that  the  highest  quality  film  stocks  were  used  on 
every  occasion  and  that  printing  machines  of  equal  capabilities 
were  available  for  use  with  each  process,  it  would  be  found  that 
the  most  consistent  high  quality  results  would  be  obtained  when 
using  process  'A'  and  that  process  'C  would  be  superior  to 
process  'B\  In  any  reduction  printing  operations  involving  work 
both  on  35-mm  and  16-mm  negative  and  positive  films  it  is  always 
advisable  to  carry  out  as  many  operations  as  possible  with  films 
of  35-mm  width  and  to  arrange  the  reduction  to  16-mm  width  to 
take  place  in  the  final  operation.  In  this  manner  the  graininess 
of  the  resultant  16-mm  copy  will  be  reduced  to  a  minimum. 

A  further  consideration  which  does  much  to  alter  the  photo- 
graphic contrast  of  the  final  prints  produced  by  any  of  the  three 
systems  shown  in  Figure  147  concerns  the  difference  between 
specular  and  diffuse  densities  of  a  silver  image.  When  an  optical 
projection  system,  such  as  that  found  in  reduction  printing 
equipment  is  used,  only  that  light  which  does  not  suffer  a  change  in 
direction  (as  a  result  of  passing  through  the  emulsion)  will  form 
the  final  image.  The  density  of  a  silver  image  measured  in  this 
manner  is  known  as  the  'specular  density'.  When  films  are  printed 
by  contact  both  the  specular  illumination  and  also  those  light  rays 
which  are  diffused  or  scattered  by  the  negative  emulsion  will 
reach  the  positive  stock  since  no  space  or  apparatus  exist  between 
the  two  emulsion  surfaces.  The  density  of  a  silver  image  measured 
by  contact  is  known  as  the  'diffuse  density'  and  is,  therefore, 
always  lower  than  the  specular  density  of  the  same  silver  image. 

Since  the  specular  density  is  higher  so  also  will  be  the  contrast 
of  the  final  positive  print  and,  therefore,  reduction  prints  made  by 
the  optical  reduction  process  indicated  at  'A',  Figure  147,  should 


SOUND   REDUCTION  PRINTING 


337 


REDUCTION 
PRINTING 
PROCESS 


ESMM  NEGAYlVgl 


REDUCTION  PRINTING   PLUS 
I6MM  CONTACT  PRINTING 

A 


[35MM  NEGATIVE] 


IISMM  POSlTlVCl 


||6MM  POSITIVE! 


[35MM  NEGATivn 


^ 


B6MM  DUPE   NEGATiVEl 


IciMM  PbsitiVEl 


OPTICAL 

REDUCTION 

PRINTING 


ROTARY 

CONTACT 

PRINTING 


ROTARY 

ONTACT 
PRINTING 


|35MM  POSITIVE  I 


II6MM    NEGATiVEl 


ROTARY 

CONTACT 

PRINTING 


OPTICAL 

REDUCTION 

PRINTING 


ROTARY 

CONTACT 

PRINTING 


|16MM   POSITIVE  I 


© 


© 


© 


Fig.  147. — Reduction  printing  processes  compared. 


have  a  higher  contrast  than  similar  prints  made  by  processes 
'B'  and  'C  when  all  other  factors  are  comparable.  It  will  be 
realised  that  the  final  stage  in  both  process  'B'  and  'C  requires 
that  the  16-mm  positive  copy  shall  be  produced  by  a  contact 
printing  operation  which,  of  course,  reduces  the  effective  density 
of  the  negative  since  both  the  specular  and  diffuse  illumination 
will  reach  the  positive  film  and,  therefore,  the  final  print  contrast 
will  also  be  reduced. 

Comparison  Between  Optical  Reduction  and  Re-Recording 
Some  people  are  of  the  opinion  that  superior  results  can  be 
obtained  by  electrically  re-recording  sounds  rather  than  optically 


|35MM    NEGATIVE!      -n. 


I»MM  heP  >85uCTON 


REPRODUCER)  -^ 


I16MM   REPRODUCER! 


P5MM    NEGAflvTi 


ESMty/t  C^TAC-npRiNTl 


P5MM~ 


RODUCERI 


y  RE -RECORDING 
TECHNIQUE 


flfeMM    NEGATiVEl 


jggg  CONTACT  PRINTI 


T  V.M  REPRODUCERl  -^ 

Fig  148. — Optical  printing  versus  re-recording. 


22 


338  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

reducing  the  photographic  images  of  these  sounds.  This  process 
involves  the  use  of  a  35-mm  positive  print  which  is  scanned  in  a 
sound  film  reproducer  so  that  the  photographic  variations  operate 
either  a  light-valve  or  mirror  galvanometer  and  so  produce  a  new 
light  modulation  upon  a  16-mm  film.  With  such  a  re-recording 
process  it  is  essential  to  reduce  distortion  of  a  photographic 
nature  to  a  minimum. 

The  freedom  from  distortion  and  general  response  of  any 
sound  reproducing  system  is  measured  by  its  ability  to  maintain 
a  constant  undistorted  output  volume  as  the  frequency  range  is 
increased.  In  the  present  case  it  is  therefore  possible  to  compare 
the  power  output  from  a  speaker  operated  by  a  16-mm  sound 
track  produced  either  by  optical  reduction  printing  or  by  electrical 
re-recording.  Of  particular  interest  is  the  output  loss  in  each  case  as 
the  recorded  frequency  is  increased.  The  actual  operations  involved 
in  the  two  systems  are  shown  diagramatically  in  Figure  148.  As 
previously  stated,  the  optical  reduction  process  involves  three 
main  stages  which,  if  carefully  controlled,  will  give  rise  to  an  over- 
all loss  of  approximately  12db  at  a  frequency  of  6,000-cycles  when 
using  a  particular  recording  and  reproducing  apparatus  having 
scanning  slits  of  a  known  width  and  employing  a  variable  area 
type  sound  track.  When  identical  recording  and  reproducing  slits 
and  variable  area  tracks  are  again  used  with  the  re-recording 
technique  the  overall  loss  in  output  at  6,000-cycles  was  found  to 
increase  to  approximately  24db. 

Although  the  difference  in  db  loss  between  the  two  systems  is 
proportional  to  the  number  of  steps  involved  in  each  system  it 
must  not  be  concluded  that  each  step  is  responsible  for  a  similar 
degree  of  loss.  In  actual  fact  the  second  operation  in  the  re- 
recording  process  -  that  of  producing  the  35-mm  positive  print  - 
can  be  so  controlled  to  compensate  for  some  of  the  original  losses 
inherent  in  the  negative.  However,  the  losses  introduced  by 
re-recording  and,  particularly,  by  contact  printing  from  the  16-mm 
negative  to  the  16-mm  positive  only  apply  with  certain  types  of 
film  emulsions  and,  with  the  latest  emulsions  of  much  improved 
characteristics,  such  comparisons  do  not  show  such  a  considerable 
difference  between  the  two  processes. 

Sound  Lead  Ahead  of  Picture 

One  final  point  which  applies  to  all  16-mm  films  which  carry  both 
picture  and  sound  records  concerns  the  relative  positions  occupied 
by  corresponding  sounds  and  pictures  along  the  film  length.  As 
is  well  known,  that  sound  which  is  intended  to  synchronise  with 


SOUND   REDUCTION  PRINTING  339 

any  given  picture  is  not  printed  alongside  the  picture  but  some 
distance  in  advance  of  it.  (see  Chapter  9).  In  the  case  of  35-mm 
films  this  separation  is  standardised  at  20-frames,  or  15-inches 
whereas,  in  the  case  of  16-mm  films,  the  separation  is  increased  to 
26-frames  although,  in  linear  measure,  this  is  only  equivalent  to 
7-8-inches.  The  difference  in  actual  lengths  between  the  two 
cases  is  so  much  more  than  the  difference  between  the  number  of 
frames  by  which  the  sound  is  advanced  since  the  distance  occupied 
by  one  35-mm  frame  is  0-75-inch  whereas  that  occupied  by  one  16- 
mm  frame  is  only  0  •  30-inch. 

One  further  means  whereby  sound  may  be  added  to  16-mm 
films  is,  of  course,  by  directly  recording  onto  16-mm  instead  of 
35-mm  film  whilst  in  the  original  stages  of  production.  This  pro- 
cess has  not  been  dealt  with  in  any  detail  because  it  is  broadly 
similar  to  the  methods  used  to  make  35-mm  original  recordings 
and,  therefore,  the  basic  principles  involved  have  already  been 
described  in  Chapter  7.  For  similar  reasons  no  special  attention 
has  been  paid  to  the  processing  of  16-mm  sound  film  although, 
in  Chapter  16,  mention  will  be  made  of  the  essential  processing 
differences  encountered  in  sub-standard  emulsions  of  the  'reversal' 
types. 


CHAPTER  12 


16-mm    CAMERAS    AND 
ACCESSORIES 


General  Survey 

Since  16-mm  cinematography  was  originally  introduced  as  a 
purely  amateur  hobby,  it  is  not  surprising  that  the  majority  of 
cameras  available  for  use  with  film  of  this  size  leave  something 
to  be  desired  by  those  who  wish  to  produce  films  of  a  more  serious 
character.  The  purpose  for  which  the  various  cameras  are  intended 
will  be  more  readily  appreciated  if  the  users  of  such  equipment 
are  first  classified  into  groups  according  to  their  requirements. 

The  largest  of  these  groups  consists  of  those  amateurs  who 
are  not  attached  to  any  organisation,  such  as  a  'film  society'  or 
Industrial  undertaking,  and  who  merely  use  16-mm  cinemato- 
graphy in  much  the  same  way  that  other  people  use  'still'  photo- 
graphy. As  is  well  known,  the  casual  user  of  'still'  cameras  is  not 
interested  in  the  processes  involved  in  obtaining  a  photograph 
and  is  quite  content  to  expose  a  roll  of  film,  hand  it  to  a  chemist  and, 
in  due  course,  to  receive  a  set  of  contact  prints.  In  much  the  same 
manner  a  large  number  of  people  are  only  interested  in  16-mm 
cinematography  as  a  means  to  secure  similar  casual  records  of 
events  but,  in  this  instance,  to  have  such  records  in  the  form  of  a 
'movie'.  Since  these  people  form  a  relatively  large  section  of  the 
total  number  of  potential  cine-camera  user,  it  is  obvious  that  some 
form  of  camera  must  be  available  which  is  simple  to  operate  and 
which  will,  as  nearly  as  possible,  comply  with  the  popular  con- 
ception of  photography,  namely,  'You  push  the  button  -  We  do 
the  rest'. 

The  second  group  of  16-mm  film  users  may  be  considered  to 
be  those  who  have  'graduated'  from  the  first  type  and,  having 
realised  some  of  the  possibilities  of  such  films,  have  taken  their 
hobby  more  seriously  and,  in  consequence,  have  quickly  discovered 

340 


16-MM  CAMERAS  AND  ACCESSORIES  341 

that  the  basic  cine-camera  is  no  longer  suitable  for  their  purposes. 
It  does  not  necessarily  follow  that  such  people  then  decide  to 
purchase  a  more  advanced  type  of  camera  -  as  we  shall  see 
later,  the  effects  which  most  enthusiastic  amateurs  wish  to 
secure  are  usually  only  possible  when  ingenious  gadgets  are  con- 
structed to  meet  the  individual  requirements  or  when  the  user  has  a 
more  or  less  unlimited  income  and  can  afford  to  have  specialised 
equipment  made  to  order.  The  number  of  people  in  this  field, 
which  may  be  classified  as  that  of  the  'serious  worker',  is  quite 
small  when  compared  with  that  of  the  less  exacting  amateur  and 
it  naturally  follows  that  equipment  likely  to  suit  their  require- 
ments is  more  expensive  and  less  numerous. 

The  third  section  of  16  mm  film  users  are  those  who  work 
together  by  associating  themselves  with  amateur  Film  Societies. 
Whilst  some  of  these  societies  are  capable  of  producing  very  good 
work  -  particularly  when  they  avoid  'humorous'  or  highly  dram- 
atic story  films  and  concentrate  more  on  the  production  of 
documentary,  interest  and  travel  subjects  -  past  evidence  has 
suggested  that  a  high  quality  film  is  more  likely  to  be  produced  by 
a  serious  worker,  operating  alone,  than  seems  to  occur  when 
similar  subjects  are  used  by  the  film  societies.  It  must  be  realised 
that  the  societies  referred  to  here  are  those  formed  by  small 
groups  of  amateurs  who,  in  general,  are  endeavouring  to  imitate 
the  professional  film  Studios,  and  are  in  quite  a  different  category 
from  the  larger  film  appreciation  groups  who  are  more  interested 
in  discussing  films  made  by  other  people  rather  than  making  films 
themselves.  Amateur  film  societies  are  usually  in  a  fairly  strong 
financial  position  when  compared  with  the  average  lone  worker 
and,  therefore,  are  usually  able  to  acquire  the  more  versatile 
cameras.  However,  those  societies  which  show  a  considerable 
interest  in  cinematography  as  such  are  usually  forced  to  improvise 
when  effects  beyond  the  capabilities  of  the  equipment  are  required. 

Quite  a  different  class  of  16-mm  film  users  are  those  commercial 
and  industrial  organisations  which  make  use  of  cinematography, 
either  in  advertising,  instruction  within  the  factory,  or  for  similar 
purposes.  This  group  are  more  particularly  those  companies  which 
employ  'resident'  cinematographers  as  opposed  to  those  which 
have  films  produced  for  them  by  firms  especially  engaged  upon 
such  work.  As  this  form  of  cinematography  becomes  more  widely 
used  it  is  doubtful  if  the  'resident'  photographer  will  be  able  to 
produce  films  of  a  standard  high  enough  to  compete  with  those 
made  by  the  industrial  film  producing  organisations.  However, 
at  the  moment,  a  considerable  number  of  such  films  are  being 


342  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

produced  and,  in  general,  the  equipment  used  is  the  most  versatile 
which  is  commercially  available  but  special  effect  work  which, 
at  the  moment,  can  only  be  produced  by  the  use  of  individual 
gadgets  and  attachments,  is  rarely  encouraged  by  those  responsible 
for  the  film  production. 

The  most  advanced  group  of  16-mm  film  producers,  who  have 
done  much  valuable  pioneer  work  to  demonstrate  the  capabilities 
of  such  films,  are  those  commercial  organisations  which  exist 
solely  to  produce  16-mm  films  for  advertising,  educational, 
training  and  similar  purposes.  Many  industrial  firms  who,  until 
recently,  had  either  not  considered  the  possibilities  of  16-mm 
cinematography  or  had  employed  their  own  staff  to  produce  such 
films,  have  now  realised  that  films  produced  by  specialists  in 
this  particular  field  are  of  a  much  higher  standard  than  that 
which  is  normally  associated  with  16-mm  cinematography. 

Naturally,  the  bulk  of  commercially  produced  16-mm  films  are 
now  made  with  sound  accompaniment  and  including  effects  and 
technique  which  are  comparable  with  35-mm  'studio  produced' 
films.  It  will  therefore  be  apparent  that  the  equipment  used  to 
produce  such  films  is  vastly  different  from  that  employed  by  the 
amateur  who  is  using  cinematography  as  a  hobby.  Most  16-mm 
film  producing  companies  have  employed  first-class  engineers  to 
manufacture  special  equipment  to  their  requirements.  This  practice 
has  been  largely  unavoidable  since  the  number  of  companies  likely 
to  require  such  equipment  has  not  been  sufficient  for  many 
apparatus  manufacturers  to  include  such  instruments  in  their 
standard  range  of  equipment. 

Finally,  the  wide  use  of  16-mm  films  in  Television  News  and 
advertising  'shorts'  has  lead  to  the  introduction  of  a  new  type  of 
'professional  16-mm  camera'  which  is  in  every  way  equal  in  per- 
formance to  the  35-mm  instruments  used  in  the  studios.  Although 
these  new  cameras  are  essentially  professional  machines  and  are 
exceptionally  well  made  precision  instruments  they  are  considerably 
less  complicated  than  some  of  the  existing  16-mm  cameras  which 
have  been  in  use  for  some  years.  The  reasons  for  such  differences 
will  become  apparent  when  the  methods  of  film  producing  are 
discussed  in  more  detail. 

The  range  of  16-mm  cameras  available  at  present  therefore 
fall  into  three  main  groups.  Firstly,  those  which  are  capable 
of  exposing  film  at  a  single  speed,  which  do  not  demand  any 
specialised  knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  operator  and  which  meet 
the  requirements  of  the  majority  of  'amateur  movie-makers'. 
Secondly,  those  cameras  which  include  several  devices  whereby  the 


16-MM   CAMERAS  AND   ACCESSORIES 


343 


more  common  professional  effects  can  be  produced,  which  can  be 
operated  at  a  variety  of  speeds  and  which  satisfy  the  main  require- 
ments of  the  advanced  worker  and  industrial  user.  Thirdly, 
those  cameras  intentionally  designed  as  professional  instruments 
capable  of  work  equal  to  that  produced  by  35-mm  studio 
equipment. 

The  Basic  \6-mm  Camera  Mechanism 

The  basic  16-mm  camera  mechanism,  designed  to  satisfy  the 
requirements  of  the  first  classification  mentioned  previously,  is 
merely  an  arrangement  whereby  a  continuous  series  of  instant- 
aneous 'still'  pictures  can  be  taken  at  regular  intervals  and  in  such  a 
manner  that  exposure  will  be  constant  from  one  picture  or  'frame' 
to  the  next. 

The  essential  mechanism  of  a  simple  camera  is  similar  to  that 
of  a  basic  35-mm  camera  (see  chapter  2)  and  is  seen  diagramatically 
in  Figure  149.  Film  is  drawn  from  the  supply  spool  at  a  constant 
rate  by  passing  it  over  a  combined  feed  and  take-up  sprocket; 
after  passing  through  the  gate  it  is  fed  at  a  constant  rate  to  the 
take-up  spool  by  passing  under  this  same  sprocket  wheel.  Guide 
rollers  are  mounted  above  and  below  the  sprocket  so  that  the 
film  is  held  in  engagement  with  the  sprocket  teeth  -  these  rollers 
are  usually  mounted  on  supporting  arms  which  enable  them  to  be 
moved  away  from  the  sprocket  when  the  film  is  being  loaded  into 
the  camera.  The  film  is  held  flat  at  the  plane  of  exposure  by 


|  GUIDE    ROLLERS  | 


loisc  shutter! 


|  DIAPHRAGM  | 


Fig.  149.— Basic  16-mm  camera  mechanism. 


344  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

passing  it  through  a  gate;  that  gate  member  which  is  nearest  to 
the  lens  being  fixed  in  position  whilst  the  member  to  the  rear  of 
the  film  is  spring-loaded  and  may  be  moved  clear  of  the  gate 
channel  when  the  film  is  being  threaded  in  the  camera. 

Two  apertures  are  formed  in  the  fixed  or  front  member  of  the 
gate.  One  is  symmetrical  about  the  axis  of  the  lens  system  and  is  of 
a  size  equal  to  the  required  picture  dimensions.  The  second 
aperture  is  below  the  first  and  is  so  positioned  that  the  nose  of  the 
claw  lever  may  pass  through  the  gate  to  engage  with  the  film 
perforations.  The  claw  lever  is  controlled  to  move  in  such  a  path 
that  it  will  engage  with  the  film  perforations,  move  the  film  down- 
wards by  a  distance  equal  to  the  height  of  one  picture  and  then 
disengage  from  the  film  to  return  once  more  to  the  top  of  its  path 
in  readiness  to  move  the  film  once  more. 

A  rotating  disc  shutter  having  an  aperture  of  suitable  dimensions 
is  positively  geared  to  the  claw  mechanism  so  that  it  will  only  pass 
light  from  the  lens  to  the  film  during  that  part  of  each  cycle  when 
the  film  is  stationary  in  the  gate. 

Since  these  simple  cameras  are  only  designed  to  operate  at  one 
linear  speed  -  fixed  by  the  manufacturers  at  a  rate  of  16-exposures 
every  second  -  the  time  of  exposure  will  be  unalterable.  Exposure 
adjustment  is  therefore  provided  by  including  a  variable  dia- 
phragm within  the  lens  assembly  and  by  which  the  intensity  of  the 
light  passing  to  the  film  may  be  varied.  With  the  very  simple 
camera  the  lens  is  mounted  in  a  fixed  position  so  that  the  operator 
is  not  required  to  make  adjustments  when  photographing  objects 
at  different  distances  from  the  camera.  To  ensure  a  reasonable 
degree  of  image  definition  over  a  considerable  range  of  distances 
such  cameras  are  fitted  with  lenses  of  f /3  •  5  or  smaller  and,  under 
such  conditions,  reasonable  definition  will  be  obtained  at  all 
distances  from  8-feet  (2  •  44-metres)  up  to  infinity. 

An  auxiliary  view-finding  lens  is  supplied  through  which  the 
field  of  view  covered  by  the  objective  lens  may  be  observed. 
Such  cameras  are  driven  by  a  spring  motor  which  is  capable  of 
feeding  an  adequate  length  of  film  through  the  mechanism  before 
it  becomes  necessary  to  rewind  the  spring.  The  film  supplied  for 
use  with  such  cameras  is  wound  with  the  emulsion  surface  in- 
wards and  on  spools  having  solid  side-flanges;  these  facts,  coupled 
with  the  opaque  backing  which  is  coated  on  the  base  surface  of 
the  film,  make  it  possible  to  load  the  camera  in  normal  room  or 
subdued  sun  lighting. 

It  will  therefore  be  apparent  that,  given  such  a  camera,  the 
operator  has  merely  to  follow  the  simple  loading  instructions* 


16-MM  CAMERAS  AND  ACCESSORIES  345 

adjust  the  lens  diaphragm  according  to  the  subject  brightness, 
and  push  the  release  button ! 

Several  variations  of  the  basic  design  shown  in  Figure  149 
are  in  use  at  the  moment.  Firstly,  it  is  not  necessary  that  the 
gate  channels  shall  be  absolutely  straight,  in  fact,  some  designers 
are  of  the  opinion  that  the  film  is  more  likely  to  remain  flat  in  the 
horizontal  plane  when  the  gate  has  a  slight  curvature  in  the 
vertical  plane.  Secondly,  the  claw  mechanism  may  either  be 
arranged  to  engage  with  the  film  from  the  front  or  back  of  the  gate 
channel.  Thirdly,  the  film  may  be  passed  over  one  sprocket  as  it 
is  drawn  from  the  supply  spool  and  over  another  sprocket  as  it  is 
fed  to  the  take-up  spool.  Cameras  are  also  designed  to  accommo- 
date either  50-ft  (15-24-metres)  or  100-feet  (30  •  48-metres)  of  film 
on  daylight  loading  spools -such  lengths  having  an  ultimate 
screening  time  of  approximately  two  minutes  and  four  minutes 
respectively  (at  16-frames  per  second). 

In  recent  years  the  'magazine'  type  camera  has  become  very 
popular  since  it  reduces  still  further  the  number  of  operations 
which  must  be  performed  before  the  camera  can  be  used.  With 
such  instruments  the  film  is  purchased  ready  loaded  within  a  small 
rectangular  case  or  magazine,  designed  to  fit  into  a  recess  provided 
within  the  camera  body.  The  magazine  contains  the  supply  and 
take-up  bobbins,  the  feeding  sprocket  and  film  gate  -  because 
of  this  the  operator  is  not  required  to  thread  the  film  in  any  way. 
An  extended  shaft,  projecting  from  the  magazine,  is  arranged  to 
automatically  engage  with  a  driving  member  when  the  magazine  is 
located  in  position  in  the  main  camera  body.  Suitable  apertures, 
provided  at  the  front  of  the  magazine,  are  usually  closed  by  a 
thin  metal  shield  which  may  be  slid  away  when  the  magazine  is 
placed  in  the  camera.  One  aperture  is  located  in  the  plane  of 
exposure  and  is  equal  in  size  to  the  picture  area.  The  second 
aperture  reveals  sufficient  film  to  enable  the  claw  mechanism  to 
pass  into  the  magazine  and  to  engage  with  the  film  perforations. 
With  such  cameras  it  is  therefore  only  necessary  to  locate  the 
magazine  in  the  camera  body,  fully  wind  the  driving  spring  and 
adjust  the  lens  diaphragm.  The  usual  viewfinders  are  provided  to 
align  the  camera  with  the  scene  which  is  to  be  photographed. 

Camera  Refinements 

As  mentioned  previously,  those  effects  for  which  provisions  are 
made  within  the  more  advanced  cameras  have  only  been  made 
possible  by  producing  instruments  which  are  more  complicated  in 
operation  than  many  of  the  35-mm  studio  models.  Professional 


346  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

35-mm  equipment  includes  such  instruments  as  optical  printers 
and  other  special  devices  and  also  employs  one  film  to  produce 
the  negative  and  a  separate  film  on  which  to  print  the  positive. 
Because  of  this  it  is  possible  to  shoot  scenes  in  a  relatively  simple 
manner  and  to  make  all  the  necessary  elaborations  when  the 
positive  prints  are  being  produced.  Users  of  16-mm  equipment 
do  not  usually  follow  these  methods  since  the  film  employed  is 
usually  of  the  'reversal'  type  in  which  the  actual  length  of  film 
used  in  the  camera  is  converted  from  a  negative  into  a  positive 
image  during  special  processing  operations  and  is  then  subsequently 
used  in  the  projector.  However,  if  negative  and  separate  positive 
films  are  used  the  necessary  equipment  with  which  to  produce 
special  'process'  shots  is  now  available  in  some  laboratories. 

Because  of  these  facts  the  users  of  16-mm  equipment  must  be 
able  to  carry  out  all  the  necessary  effects  work  in  the  camera  if 
they  so  desire  before  the  film  is  processed.  The  effects  which  can 
be  introduced  into  films  by  using  existing  cameras  and  without 
devising  special  apparatus  are  quite  numerous  and  will  be  con- 
sidered in  an  order  based  upon  the  ease  with  which  the  refinements 
necessary  to  produce  such  effects  can  be  added  to  the  basic 
mechanism. 

Variable  Taking  Speeds 

Assuming  a  good  quality  spring  drive  has  been  fitted  to  the  camera 
one  of  the  easiest  refinements  to  provide  is  an  adjustment  to 
regulate  the  speed  at  which  the  mechanism  may  be  operated. 
Such  an  adjustment  usually  takes  the  form  of  a  manual  control 
upon  the  lever  used  to  limit  the  speed  at  which  the  motor  governor 
may  rotate.  The  control  is  calibrated  so  that  it  may  be  set  to 
accurately  chosen  positions,  usually  to  provide  operating  speeds 
of  8,  16,  24,  32  and  64  frames  per  second.  Some  cameras  are  also 
provided  with  an  auxiliary  adjustment  whereby  the  speeds  may  be 
carefully  regulated  to  agree  with  the  calibrated  positions  on  the 
main  control  or  'speed  selector'  dial.  This  auxiliary  'fine  control' 
will  be  found  useful  after  the  mechanism  has  been  used  for  some 
considerable  time  and  has  ceased  to  operate  at  exactly  those  speeds 
indicated  on  the  selector  dial.  Since  most  16-mm  cameras  are  not 
provided  with  a  speed  indicator  (although  some  instruments  do 
include  a  frame  counter)  it  is  most  convenient  to  load  a  con- 
siderable length  of  waste  film  in  the  camera,  then  to  carefully 
mark  the  frame  which  is  located  in  the  aperture  and  to  run  the 
motor  for  a  known  time  at  the  speed  which  is  to  be  checked  -  it  is 
advisable  to  accurately  measure  the  duration  of  the  test  with  a 


16-MM   CAMERAS  AND   ACCESSORIES  347 

stop-watch.  The  frame  which  is  located  in  the  aperture  when  the 
camera  is  stopped  should  then  be  marked  and  the  film  removed 
from  the  camera.  By  counting  the  number  of  frames  which  exist 
between  the  two  marks  on  the  film  and  dividing  this  figure  by  the 
number  of  seconds  during  which  the  camera  was  in  motion  a  very 
accurate  measure  of  the  true  film  speed  will  be  obtained. 

Cameras  designed  to  operate  at  a  number  of  speeds  may  be  used 
to  obtain  'slow  motion'  pictures  or  shots  in  which  the  action 
appears  to  be  speeded  up.  It  must  be  remembered  that,  since  'silent' 
pictures  will  ultimately  be  projected  at  a  rate  of  16-frames  every 
second,  the  action  can  be  caused  to  appear  slower  than  normal  by 
operating  the  camera  at  speeds  above  16-frames  per  second. 
In  this  manner  any  given  motion  is  recorded  over  a  greater  length 
of  film  than  would  normally  occur  and,  in  effect,  the  time  element 
is  stretched.  Conversely,  operating  the  camera  at  speeds  below 
normal  will  cause  the  action  to  appear  faster  than  normal.  Under 
these  conditions  motion  is  recorded  on  a  shorter  length  of  film 
than  would  normally  be  used  and,  when  such  a  film  is  projected  at 
the  usual  speed,  will  therefore  appear  to  take  place  at  a  higher 
speed  than  recorded  at  the  time  the  record  was  made. 

It  is  very  important  to  remember  that  the  time  of  exposure 
is  controlled  by  the  speed  at  which  the  shutter  is  rotated.  The 
normal  camera  shutter  has  an  aperture  of  approximately  170°  and, 
assuming  an  operating  speed  of  16-frames  per  second,  will  give 
an  exposure  of  approximately  1  /32nd  of  a  second.  However,  if 
the  camera  is  operated  at  a  speed  of  only  8-frames  per  second 
the  time  of  exposure  will  obviously  be  increased  to  1  /16th  of  a 
second.  Similarly,  if  the  camera  speed  is  increased  to  32-frames 
per  second  the  time  of  exposure  will  be  reduced  to  1  /64th  of  a 
second.  It  is  therefore  important  to  adjust  the  lens  diaphragm 
when  operating  the  camera  at  various  speeds  so  that  the  actual 
exposure  is  maintained  at  a  constant  value. 

A  further  advantage  which  may  be  gained  when  using  a  camera 
in  which  the  speed  of  operation  is  adjustable  is  that  scenes  which 
would  be  under  or  over  exposed  when  using  a  simple  camera 
may,  under  certain  conditions,  be  correctly  exposed.  Let  it  be 
assumed  that  the  lighting  conditions  are  so  poor  that  an  adequate 
exposure  cannot  be  obtained  when  the  lens  diaphragm  is  at  its 
maximum  aperture  and  the  camera  is  operating  at  16-frames  per 
second.  With  a  variable  speed  mechanism  the  camera  may  be 
operated  at  a  reduced  speed  and  the  exposure  time  may  be  thereby 
increased.  Similarly,  if  the  lighting  conditions  are  such  that  over- 
exposure is  to  be  expected  when  the  lens   diaphragm  is  at  its 


348 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  150. — A  single-frame  exposure  device. 


minimum  aperture  (admittedly  a  very  unlikely  condition),  the 
mechanism  speed  may  be  increased  and  the  effective  exposure 
correspondingly  reduced.  Such  compensation  can  only  be  made  in 
practice  if  the  action  in  the  scene  is  very  slight  or  if  the  'performers' 
can  be  made  to  move  at  speeds  either  slower  or  faster  than  normal. 

Single  Frame  Exposures 

A  relatively  simple  addition  to  the  normal  camera  mechanism 
can  be  made  to  cause  only  one  frame  to  be  exposed  at  a  time. 
Some  cameras  are  fitted  with  an  exposure  release  button  which 
can  be  moved  in  two  directions  -  one  to  cause  the  mechanism  to 
run  continuously  and  the  other  to  cause  only  one  frame  to  be 
exposed  each  time  the  button  is  depressed.  In  other  cameras  two 
separate  release  buttons  are  provided  so  that  the  possibility  of 
accidentally  causing  continuous  operation  when  only  single 
exposures  are  required  is  reduced  to  a  minimum.  Of  the  many 
devices  used  to  obtain  such  motion  that  shown  in  Figure  150  is 
perhaps  the  easiest  to  make  since  it  can  be  formed  up  by  one  blow 
of  a  power  operated  press.  Disc  'A'  is  assumed  to  make  one  com- 
plete revolution  during  each  cycle  of  the  intermittent  claw  mechan- 
ism and  is  therefore  located  on  the  shaft  used  to  drive  this  unit. 
Pin  'B'  is  eccentrically  mounted  on  disc  'A*  and,  when  the  camera 
is  not  running,  will  normally  be  arrested  by  shoulder  'C\ 


16-MM   CAMERAS  AND  ACCESSORIES  349 

The  mechanism  release  lever  'D'  is  pivoted  about  point  'E' 
so  that  an  extension  to  this  lever,  arranged  to  project  through 
the  camera  body,  may  be  moved  in  either  of  two  directions.  When 
pressure  is  applied  in  the  direction  indicated  at  'F'  lever  'D' 
will  rotate  in  an  anticlockwise  direction  about  point  'E'  and  so 
will  permit  disc  'A'  to  rotate  continuously  and  until  such  time 
as  lever  'D'  is  returned  once  more  to  the  central  or  'stop'  position 
as  shown  in  the  figure.  When  pressure  is  applied  in  direction  'G' 
lever  'D'  will  rotate  about  point  'E'  in  a  clockwise  direction  so 
that  shoulder  'C  will  again  be  disengaged  from  pin  'B\  However, 
shoulder  'H'  is  so  positioned  above  shoulder  'C  that  it  will  pass 
over  the  path  described  by  pin  'B'  at  the  same  instant  as  shoulder  'C 
moves  away  from  that  path.  Because  of  this  pin  'B'  will  only  be 
permitted  to  make  one  revolution  before  it  is  brought  to  rest  once 
more,  this  time  by  shoulder  'H\  On  returning  the  release  lever  to 
the  central  position  pin  'B'  will  fall  from  the  position  it  occupied 
when  arrested  by  shoulder  'H'  to  that  which  is  shown  in  the  figure. 

With  most  cameras  which  are  fitted  with  single  frame  release 
mechanisms  it  will  be  found  that  the  spring  motor  is  unable  to 
gain  sufficient  momentum  during  a  single  revolution  to  produce 
an  exposure  as  short  as  that  which  normally  occurs  when  the 
mechanism  is  running  continuously.  It  is  therefore  usual  practice 
to  close  the  lens  diaphragm  by  one  'stop'  or,  reduce  the  shutter 
opening  to  50  %  of  that  normally  employed  -  in  those  cameras 
fitted  with  a  variable  aperture  shutter  -  in  order  to  compensate 
for  this  change  in  exposure  time. 

The  field  which  is  opened  to  the  operator  by  the  inclusion  of 
this  refinement  in  the  camera  mechanism  is  only  limited  by  the 
ingenuity  of  the  person  concerned.  Although  it  is  true  that  many 
of  the  effects  which  can  be  produced  call  for  a  considerable 
degree  of  patience  and  careful  planning  if  first-class  results  are 
to  be  achieved,  such  requirements  are  only  likely  to  be  a  dis- 
advantage to  industrial  film  producers  who  are  making  16-mm 
films  as  a  commercial  proposition  and,  therefore,  can  ill  afford 
the  time  which  must  be  devoted  to  such  work.  For  example,  the 
path  taken  by  a  work  piece  through  a  complicated  mechanism 
or  series  of  operations  might  appear  quite  meaningless  if  shown 
as  a  complete  line  on  a  diagram  representing  the  various  opera- 
tions. By  using  the  single  frame  exposure  technique  it  is  possible 
to  show  the  growth  of  such  a  line  as  it  passes  through  the  various 
stages  and,  if  required,  to  animate  the  mechanism  to  indicate 
certain  functions  which  may  occur  as  the  line  progresses  from  one 
point  to  the  next. 


350  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Many  of  the  more  simple  professional  transitional  effects, 
such  as  horizontal  and  vertical  'wipes'  can  also  be  produced 
with  cameras  which  include  the  single  frame  release  feature.  It 
should  be  understood  that  the  following  methods  are  only  intended 
to  show  that  such  effects  can  be  produced  with  relatively  simple 
equipment  and,  when  compared  with  the  methods  used  by  pro- 
fessional cameramen,  are  admittedly  very  laborious. 

Let  it  be  assumed  that  a  very  simple  transition  is  to  be  made 
so  that  the  appearance  on  the  screen  is  of  a  thin  vertical  line 
passing  from  left  to  right  and  wiping  away  one  scene  whilst,  at 
the  same  time,  a  second  scene  is  revealed  immediately  behind  this 
line.  Let  it  also  be  assumed  that  it  is  impossible  to  shoot  the 
scenes  in  sequence.  If  the  scenes  are  required  to  be  in  motion 
during  the  transition  it  is  essential  that  they  should  have  been 
shot  as  separate  scenes  and  with  sufficient  footage  exposed  beyond 
the  point  at  which  the  transition  is  to  commence.  It  will  also  be 
necessary  to  print  these  scenes  onto  a  second  length  of  reversal 
film  by  using  the  camera  as  a  printing  machine.  Because  of  this 
it  will  obviously  be  necessary  to  use  a  camera  fitted  with  film 
spools,  as  opposed  to  the  magazine  type  loading,  and  it  is  also 
an  advantage  if  the  gate  is  fairly  long  and  straight. 

The  two  films  which  carry  the  processed  scenes  would  then  be 
mounted  on  a  drawing  board  as  shown  in  Figure  151  so  that 
strip  'A'  represents  the  end  of  the  first  scene.  By  using  a  long 
straight-edge  and  a  negative  'spotting'  fluid  such  as  'Photopake' 
it  is  then  possible  to  obliterate  complementary  diagonal  sections 
on  each  film.  Scene  'A'  is  then  loaded  in  the  camera  so  that  the 
emulsion  surface  is  in  front  of  but  facing  the  new  length  of  un- 
exposed reversal  film.  The  camera  is  then  mounted  in  front  of  a 
uniformly  illuminated  white  screen  (preferably  an  'illuminating 
box'  carrying  a  sheet  of  opal  glass)  and  the  films  are  fed  through 
the  camera  by  the  single  frame  release  device.  By  carefully  counting 
the  exact  number  of  frames  occupied  by  the  scene  plus  the  transi- 
tion it  is  possible  to  stop  the  camera  at  the  last  frame  of  the 
transition.  If  the  camera  is  fitted  with  a  rewinding  mechanism 
it  is  a  relatively  simple  operation  to  rewind  the  two  films  to  the 
point  at  which  the  transition  commenced,  then  to  exchange  film 
*A*  and  film  'B'  and  continue  the  process  to  print-in  the  comple- 
mentary frame  sections  of  the  transition  and  the  remaining  part 
of  scene  'B'. 

If  the  camera  is  not  fitted  with  a  reversing  mechanism  it  will 
require  considerable  care  to  locate  the  particular  frames  within 
each  original  film  and,  in  any  case,  should  be  done  by  rewinding 


16-MM   CAMERAS   AND   ACCESSORIES 


351 


the  film  after  the  camera  has  been  taken  into  a  darkroom. 
Location  of  particular  frames  when  film  is  handled  in  dark  green 
safelights  can  be  assisted  if  small  notches  are  cut  in  the  edges  of 
the  processed  films  'A'  and  'B'  at  the  position  required  and  before 
the  printing  operations  are  commenced.  This  type  of  work  is  only 
suggested  when  no  other  camera  is  available  or  if  the  transition 
must  take  place  whilst  action  is  being  carried  on  throughout  the 
scene  change.  If  the  action  can  be  arranged  to  stop  just  as  the 
transition  takes  place,  or  if  a  more  advanced  camera  is  available, 
this  type  of  work  can  be  greatly  simplified.  It  should  be  realised 
that  this  method  of  scene  changing  can  only  be  used  when  a  so- 
called  'horizontal  wipe'  is  required.  Movement  in  any  other 
direction  than  that  indicated  in  Figure  151  cannot  be  successfully 
produced  by  obliterating  sections  of  each  frame  involved  in  the 
transition. 


Fig.  151. — Preparing  films  to  produce  "wipe"  effects. 


Reverse  Winding  Mechanism 

From  the  foregoing  description  of  the  basic  camera  mechanism 

it  will  be  apparent  that,  to  produce  any  but  the  most  simple 


352 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  152. — Spring-loaded  oscillating  claw  mechanism. 

effects,  it  is  necessary  that  the  camera  shall  be  fitted  with  means 
to  rewind  the  film.  On  first  consideration  it  may  be  thought  that 
an  auxiliary  handle,  fitted  to  an  extended  gear-shaft,  would  be 
all  that  was  needed  to  provide  this  refinement.  Whilst  this  may 
be  true  in  some  cases  it  can  only  operate  successfully  under  certain 
conditions.  Some  cameras  are  fitted  with  intermittent  claw 
mechanisms  which  do  not  move  out  of  engagement  from  the  film 
perforations  at  the  end  of  the  pull-down  stroke  but  merely  oscillate 
in  a  vertical  manner.  Such  a  mechanism  is  seen  in  Figure  152  and 
it  will  be  realised  that,  by  spring  loading  the  top  of  the  claw  lever, 
this  section  can  be  caused  to  automatically  'fold  back'  as  the  lever 
commences  to  move  upwards. 

As  shown  in  position  'A'  the  claw  has  just  commenced  to 
pull  the  film  downwards  in  the  direction  of  the  arrow  and,  since 
the  hinged  tip  'D'  is  spring  loaded  at  'E',  a  small  projection  'F  is 
caused  to  engage  with  the  main  body  of  the  lever  'G'  and  so  force 
the  mechanism  to  act  as  if  it  were  one  solid  piece  of  metal.  After 
the  film  has  been  drawn  downwards  and  the  claw  commences  to 
move  in  an  upward  direction,  as  shown  at  'B',  the  small  nose- 
section  will  hinge  about  point  'H'  and  so  cause  the  claw  tip  to 
disengage  from  the  perforation.  This  will  cause  spring  'E'  to  be 
compressed  still  further  and,  unless  the  tension  in  the  film  gate  is 
greater  than  the  force  exerted  by  this  spring,  the  film  may  move 
upwards  during  this  part  of  the  cycle  .After  the  claw  tip  has  moved 
some  distance  in  an  upward  direction  the  relationship  between  it 
and  the  film  will  be  as  shown  in  diagram  'C,  Figure  152. 

It  will  therefore  be  apparent  that  a  mechanism  of  this  type 
cannot  be  used  in  conjunction  with  a  film  rewind  unless  the 
operator  is  prepared  to  remove  the  film  from  the  gate  whilst 


16-MM  CAMERAS  AND   ACCESSORIES  353 

rewinding  is  in  progress.  These  considerations  therefore  imply 
that  rewinding  can  only  be  performed  with  ease  in  those  cameras 
which  employ  a  positive  claw  mechanism  capable  of  moving  the 
film  equally  well  in  both  directions. 

One  further  point  is  that  the  auxiliary  handle  which  must  be 
used  to  operate  the  mechanism  in  reverse  must  be  easily  detachable 
from  the  shaft  by  which  it  transmits  power  -  this  is  obviously 
necessary  to  ensure  that  this  handle  will  remain  stationary  when 
the  mechanism  is  operating  normally  in  the  'forward'  direction. 
Some  cameras,  such  as  the  Cine  Kodak  'Special',  are  provided  with 
two  separate  shafts  onto  which  this  handle  may  be  fitted,  one  which 
only  moves  the  film  backwards  by  one  frame  length  during  one 
complete  revolution  of  the  handle  and  the  other  which  moves 
it  back  by  eight  frames  during  one  revolution.  Such  shafts  are, 
of  course,  merely  extensions  to  existing  spindles  used  to  transmit 
drive  through  the  mechanism  and  are  selected  for  this  purpose 
because  of  their  speed  of  rotation  relative  to  the  claw  mechanism. 
However,  if  a  mechanism  does  not  contain  a  variety  of  shafts  which 
can  be  used  for  this  purpose  it  is  better  to  extend  that  shaft  which 
makes  one  revolution  per  frame  since,  for  accurate  work,  this 
will  be  found  to  be  essential  and  to  more  than  outweigh  the 
inconvenience  caused  by  prolonged  rewinding  when  a  consider- 
able length  of  film  must  be  moved  in  the  reverse  direction. 

Coupled  with  the  operation  of  the  rewind  handle  is  the  need 
to  cover  the  lens  aperture  whilst  the  film  is  being  rewound  to  pro- 
tect it  from  further  exposure.  Since  most  cameras  are  not  fitted 
with  an  auxiliary  cover  which  can  be  passed  over  the  gate  aper- 
ture it  will  be  necessary  to  place  a  cap  over  the  lens  or,  if  such 
a  cover  is  not  available,  to  hold  the  hand  in  front  of  the  lens  during 
the  rewinding  operation.  Because  of  this  it  is  necessary  that  the 
camera  release  lever  shall  be  designed  so  that  it  may  be  locked  in 
the  operating  position  and  thus  leave  the  operator  with  both 
hands  free  -  one  to  cover  the  lens  and  the  other  to  rewind  the 
mechanism.  Finally,  it  may  be  necessary  to  fit  a  free-wheel  to  the 
film  supply  spool  which,  although  driven  by  the  same  belt  which 
drives  the  take-up  spool,  will  only  cause  positive  rotation  of  the 
supply  spool  when  this  belt  is  travelling  in  the  reverse  direction. 
Such  a  mechanism  also  requires  that  the  take-up  spool  is  driven 
through  a  similar  free-wheel  which  is  only  positively  connected 
when  drive  from  the  belt  is  in  the  reverse  direction  to  that 
which  causes  positive  drive  to  the  supply  spool. 

Thus,  in  the  more  advanced  cameras,  the  addition  of  a  reverse 
winding  feature  entails  the  inclusion  of  the  following  four  refine- 

23 


354  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

ments:  -  (1)  that  the  claw  shall  operate  positively  in  both  directions. 
(2)  that  the  rewind  handle  shall  be  easily  detachable  from  the 
mechanism.  (3)  that  the  mechanism  release  button  shall  be  provided 
with  a  positive  lock  in  the  'operating'  position.  (4)  that  drive  shall 
be  provided  to  selectively  rotate  either  the  supply  or  take-up 
spools  automatically  and  according  to  the  direction  in  which  the 
film  is  travelling. 

Variable  Aperture  Shutters 

It  is  possible  to  produce  a  reasonable  'lap  dissolve'  effect  when 
only  a  rewinding  mechanism  is  provided  in  the  camera.  However, 
this  effect  will  not  be  wholly  acceptable  since  the  only  process 
by  which  it  can  be  obtained  is  that  of  gradually  altering  the  aperture 
of  the  lens  diaphragm  and,  in  consequence,  altering  the  depth 
of  focus  of  the  optical  system.  'Lap  dissolving'  is  the  term  used  to 
describe  the  effect  in  which  the  first  scene  gradually  becomes  less 
dense  until  it  finally  disappears  entirely  whilst,  at  the  same  time, 
the  second  scene  is  gradually  'fading  in'  and,  therefore,  it  may  be 
described  as  'the  fade  out  of  one  scene  overlapped  with  the  fade  in 
of  a  second  scene'.  Obviously,  any  mechanism  used  to  produce  a 
'lap  dissolve'  will  also  be  capable  of  producing  either  a  'fade  out' 
or  a  'fade  in'  since  both  such  effects  are  combined  to  produce  a 
*lap  dissolve'. 

If  a  camera  is  fitted  with  a  shutter  so  designed  that  its  aperture 
may  be  varied  whilst  it  is  continually  rotating  'lap  dissolves'  and 
'fades'  may  be  produced  without  altering  the  depth  of  focus  of  the 
lens  system  since  the  lens  diaphragm  may  remain  at  one  setting 
throughout  the  entire  operation.  The  lap  dissolve  is  produced  by 
smoothly  closing  the  variable  aperture  shutter  at  the  end  of  the 
first  scene,  stopping  the  camera  when  the  shutter  is  completely 
closed,  rewinding  that  amount  of  film  which  passed  through  the 
camera  whilst  the  shutter  was  closing  and  then,  after  selecting  the 
required  camera  angle  for  the  second  scene,  to  start  the  camera 
motor  once  more  and  smoothly  open  the  shutter  blades  at  a  rate 
equal  to  that  at  which  they  were  moved  during  the  final  stages 
of  the  first  scene. 

Most  16-mm  cameras  which  are  fitted  with  variable  aperture 
shutters  rely  upon  the  operators  skill  in  closing  and  opening 
the  shutter  at  such  a  speed  that  the  two  effects  will  be  perfectly 
overlapped.  Other  cameras,  such  as  the  Maurer  '16-mm  pro- 
fessional', can  be  operated  with  an  attachment  whereby  the  shutter 
blades  are  automatically  engaged  to  close  or  open  at  a  rate  which 
is  positively  coupled  to  the  camera  mechanism  and    therefore, 


16-MM   CAMERAS  AND  ACCESSORIES 


355 


which  cannot  fail  to  produce  an  accurately  synchronised  result. 

The  essential  requirements  of  a  variable  aperture  shutter  mech- 
anism are  that  one  blade  can  be  caused  to  move  relative  to  another 
and  whilst  both  are  rotating  at  high  speed.  Many  designs  have 
been  developed  to  produce  such  a  movement  but  the  arrangement 
shown  in  Figure  153  is  perhaps  one  of  the  most  compact  designs 
and  one  which  may  be  easily  manufactured.  Shaft  'J'  is  positively 
geared  to  the  camera  mechanism  and  makes  one  complete 
revolution  each  time  the  film  is  moved  forward  by  one  frame,  that 
is,  it  is  geared  'one-to-one'  to  the  intermittent  claw.  The  main 
shutter  blade  is  rigidly  mounted  on  this  shaft,  as  shj^wn  at  'S* 
and  is  also  fixed  to  gear  wheel  'A'.  A  second  gear  wheel  'B',  exactly 
equal  in  size  and  pitch  to  the  first  gear  'A',  is  freely  mounted  on 
shaft  'J'  and  the  auxiliary  shutter  blade  'T'  (which  is  required  to 
rotate  with  respect  to  the  main  shutter  'S')  is  attached  to  gear  *B\ 
Both  gear  'B'  and  shutter  blade  "P  are  free  to  rotate  with  respect 
to  shaft  'J'  and  merely  use  this  shaft  as  a  supporting  bearing. 

Referring  now  to  the  gear  train  as  seen  in  'position  1',  Figure  152, 
gear  'A'  is  again  seen  at  the  top  of  the  diagram.  Gear  'B'  is,  of 
course,  directly  behind  gear  'A'  and,  since  both  wheels  are  of  equal 
size,  will  not  be  seen  in  this  figure.  The  shafts  which  support 
gear  'A'  and  gear  'C  both  rotate  about  fixed  centres.  The  gear 
train  therefore  operated  as  follows:  -  Gear  'A'  is  in  mesh  with  gear 
'C\  gear  *C  is  in  mesh  with  gear  'D\  gear  'D'  is  in  mesh  with 
gear  'E'  and,  finally,  gear  'E'  is  in  mesh  with  gear  'B\  It  is  most 
important  to  realise  that,  as  the  drive  is  transmitted  through  the 


Fig.  153. — A  variable-aperture  shutter  mechanism. 


356  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

train,  the  gears  are  slightly  displaced  in  a  direction  along  their 
shafts  so  that  gear  'E'  is  caused  to  be  so  far  out  of  line  from  gear 
'A'  that  it  will  not  engage  with  this  gear  at  all  -  it  is,  in  fact,  so 
positioned  that  it  can  only  engage  with  gear  'B'.  Gears  'D'  and  'E' 
are  mounted  on  bearings  housed  in  the  link  system  'F',  'G'  and  'H\ 
These  links,  together  with  line  'L-M'  (which  passes  through  the 
centre  of  gears  'A'  and  'C)  form  a  parallelogram,  the  angles  of 
which  may  be  adjusted  by  setting  control  lever  'P\  The  mechanism 
is  shown  again  in  'position  T  after  lever  'P'  has  been  raised  to 
its  uppermost  position. 

The  operation  of  this  mechanism  can  be  more  easily  understood 
by  assuming  for  the  moment  that  gear  'A'  is  stationary.  Since 
gear  'C  is  mounted  in  a  fixed  centre  and  is  in  mesh  with  gear  'A', 
it  follows  that  this  gear  must  also  remain  stationary.  If,  under 
these  conditions,  lever  'P'  is  then  moved  from  'position  1"  to 
'position  2',  gear  'D'  will  be  forced  to  rotate  about  gear  'C\  Such 
rotation  will  then  be  transmitted  to  gear  'E'  and,  through  this 
gear  to  gear  'B\  Thus,  by  moving  lever  'P',  gear  'B'  may  be 
caused  to  rotate  with  respect  to  gear  'A'.  Obviously,  such  an 
operation  can  be  carried  out  with  equal  success  when  the  camera  is 
running  and  gear  'A'  is  rotating  at  a  constant  speed. 

Lens  Turrets 

A  further  refinement,  which  is  supplied  with  many  cameras,  is 
a  mounting  whereby  a  selection  of  lenses  may  be  located  at  will  in 
front  of  the  film  aperture.  Most  cameras  which  include  this  feature 
have  a  large  circular  turret  upon  which  three  or  more  lenses  may  be 
mounted  and  which  also  forms  a  housing  in  which  the  shutter  may 
rotate.  Lenses  are  available  which  will  cover  different  fields  when 
the  camera  is  mounted  in  one  position.  For  example,  if  a  camera 
is  mounted  so  that  the  normal  field  of  view  when  using  a  1-inch 
(25-mm)  lens  is  of  the  order  shown  at  'A',  Figure  154 -that  is, 
a  so  called  'medium  close  shot'  -  it  will  be  possible  to  rotate  the 
lens  turret  to  bring  either  a  telephoto  or  a  wide-angle  lens  into 
operation  and  so  produce  either  the  'big  close  up'  shown  at  'B' 
or  the  'medium  long  shot'  shown  at  'C  without  moving  the  camera 
or  altering  the  set-up  in  any  way. 

It  should  of  course  be  realised  that  the  'depth  of  field'  of  a 
lens  varies  according  to  its  'focal  length'  and  also  the  'aperture' 
at  which  it  is  working.  When  any  lens  is  critically  focused  to  a  given 
distance  it  will  be  found  that  objects  placed  either  slightly  infront 
or  slightly  beyond  this  critical  distance  will  also  be  focused  with 
quite  tolerable  sharpness.  The  range  of  distances  over  which 


357 


Fig.  154. — Relationship  between  Field  of  View  and  Focal  Length. 


such  sharpness  can  be  maintained  is  known  as  the  'depth  of  field*. 
The  'focal  length'  of  a  lens  is  the  distance  which  exists  between 
the  nodal  point  of  the  lens  system  and  the  plain  of  the  image 
when  the  lens  is  focused  to  infinity.  For  most  practical  purposes 
the  nodal  point  of  a  lens  may  be  considered  to  be  very  near  to 
the  rear  component  of  the  lens. 

The  'speed'  of  any  lens  intended  for  sub-standard  use  may  be 
designated  by  the  'f/'  system -such  as  f/4-5,  f/8,  etc.  These 
figures  are  obtained  by  first  ascertaining  the  focal  length  of  the 
lens  and  then  dividing  this  distance  by  the  diameter  of  the  aperture 
(or,  more  particularly,  by  the  diameter  of  the  beam  of  light  admitted 
by  that  aperture).  The  quotient  thus  obtained  is  known  as  the 
'f  /  number'  for  that  particular  setting.  For  example,  if  a  lens  has 
an  aperture  of  1 -inch  (25-mm.)  and  is  of  8-inches  (20-  32-cms)  focal 
length,  the  f/  number  will  be  8/1  or  f/8.  Similarly,  if  the  aperture 
is  then  reduced  to  be  0-5-inch  (12-5-mm)  the  f/  number  will  be 
8/0-5,  or  f/16.  It  will  therefore  be  realised  that  the  higher  the  f/ 
number  is  the  smaller  will  be  the  aperture  and,  therefore,  the  less 
will  be  the  exposure.  The  speed  at  various  apertures  varies  inversely 
as  the  square  of  the  f/  number.  Therefore,  an  aperture  of  f/16  will 
require  an  exposure  four  times  that  given  at  f/8  if  equal  densities 
are  to  be  obtained  on  the  negative.  Lens  'stops'  are  usually 
graduated  so  that  each  higher  number  requires  twice  the  exposure 
of  that  which  preceeds  it.  If,  therefore,  an  aperture  of  f /4  requires 
1  unit  exposure  time,  an  aperture  of  f/5  •  6  would  require  2  units, 
an  aperture  of  f/8  would  require  4  units,  and  so  on  throughout  the 
range  of  lens  'stops'. 


358  THE   PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

The  T  Stop'  Method  of  Lens  Calibration 

With  the  introduction  of  so-called  'lens  blooming',  or  coating 
applied  to  each  surface  of  a  lens  system  so  as  to  reduce  consider- 
ably the  reflection  and  consequent  loss  of  image  definition,  it 
quickly  became  apparent  that  the  f  /  stop  system  of  lens  calibration 
was  not  sufficiently  reliable. 

As  a  ready  example  of  what  is  meant  by  this,  let  us  remember 
that  the  f/  stop  system  is  merely  a  geometric  relationship  based 
upon  the  ratio  between  the  focal  length  and  the  diameter  of  the 
entrance  pupil  of  the  lens  -  it  thereby  does  not  take  into  account 
the  absorption  due  to  the  number  of  elements  in  the  lens  system  and 
always  assumes  a  perfectly  circular  lens  diaphragm. 

Because  of  this  it  is  possible  to  find  one  lens  nominally  rated  at 
f/2  and  passing  considerably  more  light  than  a  second  lens  of 
similar  f  /  stop  rating  -  particularly  if  the  first  lens  has  been 
'bloomed'  and  the  second  has  not.  Clearly,  the  only  satisfactory 
method  to  adopt  is  one  which  calibrates  all  lenses  in  terms  of  the 
actual  amount  of  light  transmitted  to  the  film. 

Whilst  this  object  is  only  too  easy  to  define,  it  is  very  difficult 
to  standardise  as  a  general  practice;  not  the  least  difficulty  being 
that  a  purely  geometric-ratio-system  such  as  the  f/  stop  nomen- 
clature can  be  rapidly  applied  in  the  mass  production  of  lens  iris 
rings  and  the  engraving  thereof  whereas,  with  T/  stop  calibration, 
each  lens  must  be  individually  measured.  That  these  difficulties 
have  been  overcome  and  the  photometric  transmission  of  lenses  is 
now  measured  represents  a  very  considerable  advance  in  technique 
and  should  lead  to  greater  uniformity  in  results  obtained  when 
various  lenses  are  interchanged.  A  very  detailed  account  of  the  whole 
problem  and  the  advantages  obtained  is  given  in  a  Report  of  the 
Lens  Calibration  Sub-Committee  of  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture 
Engineers,  published  in  the  October,  1949  issue  of  their  journal. 

To  be  able  to  use  a  series  of  wide  angle,  normal  and  telephoto 
lenses  when  such  a  range  is  fitted  to  the  turret  of  some  cameras 
it  is  necessary  to  remember  the  following  points  if  optimum 
results  are  to  be  obtained:  -  (1)  A  lens  of  long  focal  length  will  have 
a  smaller  'depth  of  focus'  than  will  a  lens  of  short  focal  length. 

(2)  As  the  size  of  the  aperture  in  a  given  lens  is  decreased  the  f / 
number  will  increase  and  the  'depth  of  focus'  will  become  greater. 

(3)  With  any  given  lens,  at  a  given  aperture,  the  'depth  of  focus' 
will  increase  as  the  distance  between  the  camera  and  the  subject  is 
increased.  (4)  the  'depth  of  focus'  is  always  greater  beyond  the 
distance  to  which  the  lens  is  focused  than  it  is  in  front  of  that 
distance. 


16-MM   CAMERAS  AND  ACCESSORIES 


359 


Reflex  Viewfinders 

Cameras  which  are  intended  to  be  used  with  a  wide  variety  of 
lenses  should  be  provided  with  some  means  whereby  the  actual 
field  covered  by  such  lenses  may  be  accurately  checked.  One  of 
the  most  certain  methods  used  for  this  purpose  is  that  fitted  to 
the  Cine  Kodak  'Special'  camera  and  shown  diagramatically  in 
Figure  155.  In  this  diagram  a  small  right-angle  prism  is  so  mounted 
that  it  may  be  brought  to  a  position  between  the  objective  lens 
and  the  film  aperture.  Mounted  above  this  prism  is  a  small 
ground  glass  screen  exactly  equal  in  size  to  the  film  aperture. 
This  screen  is  very  accurately  located  so  that  the  distance  'A-B'  - 
from  the  centre  of  the  prism  to  the  film  plane  -  is  equal  to  distance 
'A-C  and,  therefore,  any  image  which  is  sharply  focused  upon  the 
ground  glass  screen  must  also  be  focused  upon  the  film. 

The  prism  is  supported  by  a  small  arm  and  in  such  a  manner 
that  an  extension  to  the  camera  shutter  disc  will  engage  with  a 
lever  used  to  support  this  arm  and  so  cause  the  prism  to  fall 
downwards  below  the  optical  axis  immediately  the  camera  is  set 
in  motion.  Since  the  camera  will  always  stop  with  the  shutter  in 
a  known  position,  it  is  possible  to  rely  upon  the  prism  being 
well  out  of  the  light  beam  before  the  first  picture  is  exposed. 
As  with  35-mm  equipment,  the  professional  16-mm  cameras  such 
as  the  Arriflex  are  now  fitted  with  mirror-surfaced  shutters  set  at 
45°  to  the  optical  axis.  Thus  an  accurately  framed  image  is  reflected 
into  the  viewfinder  all  the  time  the  camera  is  running. 


GROUND  GLASS    SCREEN 


EYEPIECE 


OBJECTIVE  LEN 


FILM  PLANE 


Fig.  155. — A  reflex  viewfinder. 


360 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  156. — A  matt  box  attached  to  camera  extension. 


External  Camera  Attachments 

Those  who  are  unable  to  obtain  cameras  which  includes  the 
foregoing  refinements  or,  as  is  more  usually  the  case,  require  to 
produce  effects  which  need  different  equipment,  are  usually  able  to 
obtain  so  called  'Matt  Boxes'  and  similar  attachments  which  are 
designed  to  fit  to  a  number  of  existing  cameras.  'Matt  Boxes'  are 
small  rectangular  frameworks  mounted  a  few  inches  infront  of  the 
camera  lens  and  designed  to  carry  such  articles  as  diffusing  screens, 
masks,  etc.  One  of  the  most  straightforward  uses  to  which  such  a 
device  can  be  put  is  to  produce  the  'split  screen'  effect  in  which 
one  person  can  be  caused  to  appear  in  two  positions  at  once  or 
parts  of  one  scene  may  be  substituted  for  parts  of  another. 

One  form  of  matt  box,  shown  in  Figure  156,  consists  of  a 
rectangular  framework  'H'  in  which  grooves  'S'  are  so  formed  that 
masks,  such  as  'A',  'B'  or  *C\  may  be  accurately  held  at  right- 
angles  to  the  optical  axis  of  the  camera  lens.  The  framework  is 
usually  supported  on  a  shaft  'E'  so  that  its  distance  from  the 
camera  lens  may  be  adjusted.  This  shaft  may  either  be  attached 
directly  to  the  camera  or  to  a  clamp  fitted  between  the  camera  and 
the  tripod  head.  Bellows  are  provided  between  the  matt  box  and 
the  camera  lens  to  prevent  stray  fight  from  reaching  the  film. 

Mask  'A'  has  been  cut  in  such  a  manner  that  it  will  divide 
the  normal  camera  aperture  into  half  so  that  either  the  left  or 
right  hand  section  may  be  exposed.  With  such  a  mask  it  is 


16-MM   CAMERAS  AND   ACCESSORIES  361 

possible  to  cause  such  effects  as  when  people  appear  to  vanish  on 
walking  past  the  centre  of  the  field;  when  the  same  person,  on 
walking  across  the  field  of  view  suddenly  sheds  some  of  his  clothing 
or  when  one  or  more  people  'double'  for  themselves  in  the  same 
scene.  These  effects  are  all  produced  by  inserting  mask  'A'  in  the 
matt  box  in  the  position  shown,  running  the  camera  through  the 
action  which  is  to  occur  in  the  'open'  half  of  the  mask  and,  after 
stopping  the  camera  and  rewinding  the  film  to  the  start  of  the  shot, 
to  reverse  the  mask  from  left  to  right.  The  complementary  half 
of  the  frames  will  then  be  exposed  and  the  actors  merely  change 
their  positions  or  make  the  necessary  alterations  to  their  make-up 
before  completing  the  shot.  It  is  very  important  that  the  mask 
shall  be  accurately  made  and  that  the  grooves  in  the  matt  box 
shall  be  a  close  fit  around  the  mask.  It  is  therefore  advisable  to 
'register'  these  masks  with  dowel  pins  or  similar  locking  devices 
to  avoid  the  possibility  of  slippage  or  misplacement  which  would, 
of  course,  cause  dividing  lines  to  appear  in  the  final  pictures 
between  the  two  halves  of  the  frame. 

Mask  'B'  is  used  in  a  similar  manner  to  mask  'A'  and  is  inverted 
so  that  either  the  upper  or  lower  halves  of  the  frame  may  be 
exposed.  With  such  a  mask  it  is  quite  possible  to  cause  persons  to 
walk  out  of  the  picture  and  'forget'  to  take  their  heads  with  them. 
Such  an  effect  is  produced  by  causing  the  persons  concerned  to 
stand  within  the  frame  boundaries  for  the  entire  length  of  the 
complete  shot  whilst  the  upper  half  of  the  frame  is  being  exposed. 
The  camera  is  so  lined  up  on  the  subjects  that  the  horizontal 
centre  is  level  with  the  neck  or  that  portion  of  the  body  which  is 
to  remain  after  the  rest  has  walked  away.  The  film  is  then  rewound 
to  the  start  of  the  shot  and  the  mask  is  inverted.  The  second 
shooting  commences  with  the  actors  still  standing  in  the  picture 
but,  approximately  half  way  through  the  total  running  time,  the 
actors  walk  out  of  the  picture  and  the  camera  continues  to 
photograph  the  background  until  the  remaining  length  of  film 
(which  carries  an  exposure  in  the  top  half  of  each  frame)  has 
also  been  exposed  over  the  lower  section. 

By  very  careful  adjustment,  and  with  considerable  patience,  it 
is  possible  to  cause  more  striking  effects  such  as  a  man  having  the 
face  of  a  woman  and  talking  to  a  woman  who  is  blessed  with  the 
face  of  a  man!  However,  this  and  similar  effects  can  only  be 
produced  if  the  actors  can  be  relied  upon  to  remain  in  fairly  fixed 
positions  throughout  the  sequence  and  also  that  each  actor  will 
be  able  to  take  up  the  position  originally  occupied  by  the  other 
when  shooting  the  second  half  of  the  scene. 


362  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Mask  'C  can  be  used  to  present  two  scenes  at  once  -  the 
almost  classical  example  being  of  one  person  in  the  lower  left 
hand  corner  of  the  frame  telephoning  to  another  who,  at  the  same 
time,  may  be  seen  replying  from  some  distant  spot  shown  in  the 
top  right-hand  corner.  Mask  'C  can  also  be  used  to  present 
changes  which  take  place  as  an  article  moves  across  the  frame. 
For  example,  if  it  is  required  to  show  a  flask  of  liquid  gradually 
containing  more  fluid  as  it  passes  across  the  frame,  this  may  be 
done  by  first  locating  the  mask  as  shown  at  'C  and  moving  the 
empty  flask  from  right  to  left.  Then,  after  filling  the  flask  com- 
pletely, the  whole  sequence  is  shot  once  more  with  the  mask 
rotated  through  180°.  Such  a  scene  should  be  photographed 
throughout  by  using  the  single  frame  exposing  device  and  by 
moving  the  flask  by  known  amounts  between  each  individual 
exposure. 

A  further  effect  which  can  be  very  easily  produced  without 
rewinding  the  film  and  when  the  camera  is  running  at  full  speed 
is  that  of  a  'spot  light'  effect  upon  the  centre  of  interest  in  subjects 
which  may  be  in  motion  or  when  the  camera  is  'panning'.  The 
'spot  light  effect'  is  of  a  circular  central  section  in  the  frame 
appearing  highly  illuminated  whilst  the  surrounding  area  is  only 
slightly  illuminated.  This  may  be  produced  by  placing  a  rect- 
angular piece  of  neutral  density  filter  in  the  matt  box  and  cutting  a 
circular  section  away  from  the  centre.  Obviously,  the  full  exposure 
will  be  given  to  the  centre  of  the  picture  whilst  the  edges  of  the 
frame  will  only  receive  that  illumination  which  passes  through  the 
neutral  density  filter.  This  process  is  much  superior  to  other 
techniques  in  which  a  circular  opaque  mask  is  used  and  the  film 
is  exposed  twice  -  once  without  the  mask,  to  produce  a  slight 
exposure  over  the  entire  frame,  and  again  with  the  mask  in  position 
to  increase  the  exposure  over  the  central  section.  With  the  neutral 
density  filter  in  use  the  whole  effect  can  be  produced  at  once 
and  while  action  is  occurring  in  the  scene. 

When  titles  are  being  photographed  the  matt  box  may  be  used 
to  produce  'wipes'  from  one  title  to  the  next  although,  in  this 
case,  the  entire  sequence  should  be  photographed  by  using  the 
single  frame  release  device  and  by  a  camera  fitted  with  a  film 
rewind  mechanism.  If  shaft  'E',  Figure  156,  is  extended  beyond 
the  matt  box  it  will  be  possible  to  locate  shutter  'D'  in  line  with 
successive  graduations  'G'  marked  off  around  the  framework  of 
the  box.  The  rotation  of  the  shutter  in  a  clockwise  direction  will 
cause  an  increasing  area  of  successive  frames  to  be  masked 
off  as  the  end  of  the  first  title  is  approached  then,  by  rewinding 


16-MM   CAMERAS  AND   ACCESSORIES 


363 


the  appropriate  length  of  film,  inserting  the  second  title  and 
rotating  the  shutter  until  edge  'D'  occupies  the  position  to  which 
edge  *F'  was  first  located,  correspondingly  increasing  areas  of 
successive  frames  may  be  revealed  until  the  new  title  is  fully  shown 
across  the  entire  frame  area.  Single  frame  exposure  should  then 
be  continued  throughout  the  entire  length  of  the  shots  although 
animation  may  not  be  taking  place.  This  is  necessary  since  a  change 
in  exposure  will  occur  if  the  camera  is  run  continuously  once  the 
wipe  has  been  completed.  Although  many  manufacturers  recom- 
mend that  the  lens  aperture  should  be  opened  by  one  'stop'  when 
changing  from  single  frame  to  continuous  exposure,  such  an 
adjustment  will  not  entirely  compensate  for  such  changes  and  may 
produce  variations  in  image  density  in  the  final  pictures. 


CINE  CAMERA 


Fig.  157. — Set-up  for  titles  with  moving  background  by  "single-shot"  exposure. 


Titles  with  Moving  Backgrounds 

By  using  a  'still'  picture  camera  in  front  of  the  cine  camera  it  is 
possible  to  photograph  titles  which  have  moving  backgrounds 
which,  unlike  those  produced  by  other  processes,  are  as  sharply 
focused  as  the  titles  themselves.  The  arrangement  for  this  type  of 
work  is  shown  in  Figure  157.  Both  the  still  and  the  cine  cameras 
should  be  mounted  upon  a  base  board  which  may  then  be  attached 
to  a  tripod  head.  The  still  camera  must  be  of  the  type  which  uses 
plates  or  cut  films  and  which  has  a  ground  glass  focusing  screen. 
The  still  camera  is  then  trained  upon  the  background  scene 
and,  with  the  ground  glass  in  position,  this  scene  is  sharply  focused 
in  the  plane  which  is  normally  occupied  by  the  plates  or  film. 
The  titles  -  consisting  of  black  letters  written  on  clear  celluloid  - 
are  then  inserted  in  the  runners  at  the  back  of  the  camera.  The 


364  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

cine  camera  is  then  focused  down  to  bring  the  title  perfectly  sharp. 
The  background  scene  will  then  also  be  perfectly  sharp  when  both 
background  and  title  are  photographed  by  the  cine  camera. 

Several  points  should  be  borne  in  mind  when  this  type  of  work 
is  produced.  Firstly,  the  ground  glass  must  be  of  a  very  fine 
structure  and,  unless  a  large  field  lens  can  be  used,  must  remain  in 
position  during  the  entire  operation.  Secondly,  the  titles  produced 
by  this  method  will  always  have  black  letters  against  a  pictorial 
background.  Thirdly,  if  the  movement  in  the  background  is 
required  to  remain  in  the  centre  of  the  frame  in  the  cine  camera  it 
must  be  sighted  through  the  viewfinder  of  the  still  camera  as  the 
tripod  is  rotated.  Lastly,  the  cine-camera  and  the  title  lettering 
must  be  inverted  because  the  image  at  the  rear  of  the  still  camera 
will  also  appear  inverted. 

Professional  16-mm  Cameras 

Turning  now  to  the  more  advanced  16-mm  cameras  intentionally 
designed  for  professional  use,  the  Arriflex  instrument  is  of  par- 
ticular interest  since  the  intermittent  claw  mechanism  is  an 
exceptionally  accurate  piece  of  work.  As  is  well  known,  the  ability 
to  register  successive  frames  accurately  in  the  camera  aperture 
depends  upon  several  factors  such  as  the  gate  tension,  the  design 
of  the  claw  tip,  the  condition  of  the  film,  etc.  The  importance  of 
these  variables  can  be  greatly  reduced  if  the  intermittent  is  suppli- 
mented  with  pilot  pins  which  accurately  locate  the  film  during 
the  exposing  period. 

The  Arriflex  16-mm  camera  is  primarily  designed  for  use  with 
sound  film  (perforated  along  one  edge  only)  although,  of  course,  it 
will  also  operate  with  double-perforated  silent  stock  equally 
satisfactorily.  Because  of  this,  only  a  single  claw  and  pilot-pin 
assembly  are  employed.  Steadiness  tests  have  been  carried  out  on 
these  cameras  employing  the  double-exposure  technique  -  a  most 
severe  test  which  is  usually  only  conducted  to  assess  a  camera's 
value  for  producing  back-projection  and  similar  shots.  These 
tests  revealed  a  steadiness  figure  of  less  than  0-1%  of  the  picture 
width  which,  for  a  camera  of  this  type  and  size  is  very  good  indeed. 

The  Arriflex  is  fitted  with  a  'mirror-shutter',  that  is  a  shutter 
having  a  blade  set  at  45°  to  the  optical  axis  and  carrying  a  mirror 
surface  on  that  side  of  the  shutter  which  faces  the  lens.  By  this 
means,  and  in  conjunction  with  a  specially  designed  viewfinder, 
it  is  possible  not  only  to  see  precisely  the  field  of  view  actually 
presented  to  the  film  aperture,  but  also  to  focus  the  scene  by  means 
of  an  upright  visual  image.  Of  equal  importance  is  the  fact  that 


16-MM   CAMERAS   AND  ACCESSORIES  365 

true  'optical  viewfinding'  may  be  continued  throughout  the  whole 
shooting  period  so  that  no  doubt  remains  concerning  exactly  what 
was  or  was  not  'in  shot'  during  exposure. 

The  camera  is  provided  with  power  by  an  8-Volt  built-in  electric 
motor  of  very  robust  construction  and  controlled  by  a  sensitive 
speed  regulator  in  conjunction  with  a  visual  speed  indicator.  A  lens 
turret  provides  accommodation  for  a  battery  of  three  lenses  and 
auxiliary  film  magazines  provide  accommodation  for  400-feet  of 
film  at  one  loading. 

These  cameras  are  used  extensively  by  Industrial  film  producing 
units  and  by  Television  Newsreel  cameramen,  etc. 


CHAPTER  13 


16-mm     SOUND-FILM     PROJECTION 


In  recent  years  the  growth  of  16-mm  cinematography  has  been 
so  rapid  that  modern  sound  projectors  have  come  to  resemble 
35-mm  professional  machines  much  more  closely  than  those 
relatively  simple  and  earlier  silent  mechanisms  from  which  they 
have  been  developed.  Although  the  complete  mechanism  is  now 
quite  a  complicated  and  highly  accurate  piece  of  engineering,  it 
still  depends  upon  the  basic  systems  of  film  traction  which  have  been 
the  fundamental  requirements  of  all  motion  picture  apparatus  for 
many  years.  These  requirements  are  identical  with  those  necessary 
in  camera  mechanisms  and  are  briefly  re-stated  as  follows:  - 
(1)  That  the  film  shall  be  drawn  from  a  supply  spool  at  a  constant 
rate  and,  after  passing  through  the  machine,  shall  be  fed  to  the 
take-up  spool  at  a  similar  rate.  (2)  That  the  film  shall  be  formed 
into  a  free  loop  between  the  points  of  supply  and  take-up  so  that 
intermittent  motion  may  replace  the  constant  forward  motion  over 
a  small  section  of  the  film  path.  (3)  Assuming  that  the  film  may  be 
guided  through  a  channel  over  a  portion  of  the  path  where  inter- 
mittent movement  occurs,  an  aperture  must  be  so  formed  in 
this  channel  that  one  image  on  the  film  is  accurately  'framed'  and 
may  be  projected  onto  the  screen  by  a  suitable  illuminating  and 
associated  optical  system.  (4)  Since  the  film  will  be  caused  to 
come  to  rest  in  the  guiding  channel  whilst  projection  is  in  progress, 
and  will  then  be  rapidly  moved  forward  in  order  to  bring  the  next 
frame  into  correct  alinement,  a  continuously  rotating  shutter  must 
be  provided  so  that  light  is  only  allowed  to  pass  to  the  screen  when 
the  film  is  stationary  in  the  projecting  plane  and  so  that  the  forward 
movement  of  the  film  from  frame  to  frame  is  masked  from  view. 

Basic  Arrangement  of  the  Silent  Projector 

The  basic  arrangement  of  the  mechanism  necessary  to  project 
pictures  and,  therefore,  what  might  be  termed  the  'silent'  projector 

366 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM   PROJECTION 


367 


is  seen  in  Figure  159.  The  film  to  be  projected  is  mounted  on  a 
supply  spool  attached  to  a  supporting  arm  which,  in  modern  mach- 
ines, is  of  sufficient  length  either  to  accommodate  spools  holding 
400-ft(121  -9-metres)  or  l,600-ft(487-7-metres)  of  film.  The  spindle 
used  to  support  this  spool  is  sometimes  prevented  from  over- 
running by  the  addition  of  a  small  friction  clutch,  between  the 
spindle  itself  and  the  arm  which  supports  it.  Provision  is  also 
usually  made  whereby  this  spindle  may  be  engaged  with  the 
driving  mechanism  so  that  the  film  may  be  rapidly  rewound  after 
projection. 

Film  is  drawn  from  the  supply  spool  at  a  constant  rate  by  means 
of  the  upper  supply  sprocket  -  with  which  it  is  held  in  engagement 
by  a  series  of  guide  rollers.  Those  machines  which  are  essentially 
designed  as  'silent'  projectors  are  usually  provided  with  a  motor 
speed  control  so  that  the  rate  of  projection  may  be  varied  at  will. 
Some  sound  projectors  are  designed  to  run  at  two  fixed  speeds 
only  and  so  that  film  is  driven  past  the  supply  sprocket  either  at  a 
rate  of  16  or  24  pictures  per  second.  When  such  an  adjustment  is 
provided  the  machine  may  be  used  equally  well  to  project  both 
silent  and  sound  films  at  their  correct  speeds.  When  projectors 
are  only  designed  to  operate  at  so  called  'sound  film  speed'  this 
sprocket  will  rotate  at  one  fixed  speed  so  that  24  pictures  will  be 
fed  through  the  machine  every  second.  If  films  which  have  been 


Fig.  159. — Silent  16-mm  projector  layout. 


368  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

taken  at  a  rate  of  16  pictures  per  second  are  afterwards  projected 
on  a  machine  which  will  only  run  at  a  rate  of  24  pictures  per  second 
the  action  will  appear  on  the  screen  some  50  %  faster  than  actually 
occurred  at  the  time  the  record  was  made. 

The  film  is  then  formed  in  a  free  loop  between  the  supply  and 
take-up  sprockets  so  that,  over  a  section  of  this  loop,  it  may  be 
passed  through  the  film  'gate'  and  held  under  sufficient  tension 
to  keep  it  exceptionally  flat  and  in  the  focal  plane  of  the  objective 
lens.  The  take-up  sprocket  is  arranged  to  feed  film  to  the  take-up 
spool,  at  a  rate  equal  to  that  at  which  the  supply  sprocket  operates, 
so  that  a  constant  length  of  film  always  exists  between  these  two 
sprockets.  However,  since  the  film  is  moved  intermittently  through 
the  gate,  the  length  of  the  loop  between  the  supply  sprocket  and 
the  top  of  the  film  gate  will  be  at  a  maximum  when  the  loop 
between  the  bottom  of  the  gate  and  the  take-up  sprocket  is  at  a 
minimum. 

Since  the  circumference  of  the  roll  of  film  on  the  take-up  spool 
will  be  continually  increasing  as  more  and  more  film  is  wound  up, 
this  spool  must  be  driven  through  a  clutch  mechanism  from  the 
main  driving  train  so  that,  although  the  drive  to  the  clutch  will 
remain  at  a  constant  rate,  the  frictional  contact  between  the  clutch 
and  the  spool  will  permit  the  spool  to  rotate  at  an  ever  decreasing 
speed  until  the  whole  film  has  been  projected.  The  normal 
400-ft  (121-9-metres)  spool  has  an  internal  diameter  of  approxi- 
mately 1  •  49-inches  (37  •  85-mm)  and  an  external  diameter  of  7  •  00 
inches  (17-78-cms),  that  is,  a  ratio  between  these  diameters  of 
approximately  4-6:1.  Because  of  this  the  spool  will  be  required 
to  rotate  at  a  speed  of  60  revolutions  per  minute  at  the  com- 
mencement of  projection  and  only  13  revolutions  per  minute 
as  the  film  is  about  to  come  to  an  end.  These  figures  presuppose 
that  the  rate  of  projection  is  at  16-pictures  per  second.  If  film  is 
projected  at  a  rate  of  24-pictures  per  second  these  speeds  are 
increased  to  90  revolutions  per  minute  at  the  commencement 
and  20  revolutions  per  minute  at  the  end  of  projection. 

When  1,600-ft  (480-metres)  spools  are  used  the  core  diameter 
is  increased  to  approximately  4-6-inches  (11-7-cms)  and  the 
external  maximum  diameter  is  14-0-inches  (35-56-cms),  that  is, 
a  ratio  of  approximately  3-0:1  exists  between  the  two  extreme 
positions.  It  is  therefore  seen  that,  although  the  larger  spool 
is  rather  cumbersome  to  handle,  it  actually  places  less  strain  on 
the  friction  take-up  clutch  than  does  the  smaller  spool.  At  sound 
film  projection  speed  this  spool  will  rotate  at  a  rate  of  approximately 
30-revolutions  per  minute  when  projection  commences  and  at  10 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  369 

revolutions  per  minute  as  the  film  is  about  to  end.  It  should,  of 
course,  be  understood  that  the  foregoing  analysis  merely  indicates 
that  the  ratio  of  speeds  at  which  the  larger  spools  will  be  required 
to  rotate  is  less  than  that  required  for  the  smaller  spools  and  does 
not  imply  that  the  power  required  to  operate  the  clutches  will  be 
related  in  a  similar  manner.  Since  the  weight  of  a  fully  loaded 
1,600-ft  (480-metres)  spool  will  be  considerably  greater  than  that 
of  a  400-ft  (121-9-metres)  spool  the  loading  on  the  supporting 
bearings  and,  therefore,  the  friction  in  those  bearings,  will  also 
be  greater.  Because  of  this  the  power  required  to  rotate  the  larger 
spool  will  be  greater  than  that  necessary  to  rotate  a  small  spool 
although  the  ratio  of  speeds  at  which  each  spool  will  rotate  is 
inversely  related  as  explained  previously. 

Intermittent  Mechanisms 

Of  that  part  of  the  mechanism  required  to  project  the  pictures  - 
as  distinct  from  that  required  to  reproduce  the  sound  -  the  most 
important  section  is  obviously  that  which  enables  the  film  to  be 
brought  accurately  to  rest  in  the  gate  aperture.  Until  recently 
the  intermittent  mechanisms  used  for  this  purpose  have  always 
been  of  the  so-called  'claw'  type  and,  in  general  have  therefore  been 
similar  in  principle  to  camera  mechanisms.  There  has,  however, 
always  been  one  significant  difference  between  camera  and  pro- 
jector claws;  it  is  concerned  with  the  portion  of  the  complete 
intermittent  cycle  which  is  employed  to  move  the  film  through  the 
gate.  As  is  well  known,  the  appearance  of  continuous  motion  can 
be  recorded  if  16  separate  'still'  pictures  are  photographed  every 
second  although,  when  sound  is  added  to  the  film,  this  number  is 
increased  to  24  because  of  the  requirements  of  the  photographic 
sound  recording  systems  and  not  for  any  reason  connected  with  the 
intermittent  mechanism  itself.  However,  when  such  pictures  are 
projected,  it  is  not  sufficient  to  reproduce  them  by  a  mechanism 
identical  to  that  used  in  the  camera.  As  we  saw  previously  in 
chapter  6,  the  projector  mechanism  is  still  required  to  move  the 
film  forward  in  an  intermittent  manner,  and  at  a  rate  similar  to 
that  at  which  it  was  recorded,  but  the  shutter  is  required  to  inter- 
rupt the  light  beam  at  such  a  rate  that  the  time  during  which  the 
screen  is  dark  will  be  shorter  than  the  time  during  which  the  film 
was  protected  from  exposure  when  in  the  camera  and,  further,  so 
that  the  frequency  of  such  dark  periods  will  be  increased  to  at 
least  48  times  every  second.  These  requirements  make  it  impossible 
to  use  identical  intermittent  mechanisms  in  both  cameras  and 
projectors. 

24 


370 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


CAMERA    MECHANISM 


SILENT    PROJECTOR    MECHANISM 


ipy-i  go™) 


|fR*MC  PgQjCCTjPl 


.SOUND  PROJECTOR  MECHANISM 


Do 


^ 


IJO 


v 


Fig.  160. — Comparison  of  camera  and  projector  intermittent  mechanisms. 


The  main  differences  between  camera  and  projector  claw  mech- 
anisms are  more  easily  visualised  from  Figure  160.  The  basic 
requirements  of  the  camera  intermittent  are  that  it  shall  move  the 
film  forward  during  such  a  portion  of  the  total  cycle  of  motion 
that  sufficient  time  will  be  allowed  -  when  the  film  is  stationary  - 
to  obtain  an  adequate  exposure  during  such  remaining  portions  of 
the  cycle.  It  has  been  found  that  the  design  and  construction  of 
the  intermittent  mechanism  can  be  relatively  simple  only  when  the 
'pull-down'  portion  of  the  claw  path  is  maintained  above  a  certain 
minimum  percentage  of  the  total  cycle.  This  minimum  requirement 
is  that  the  'pull-down'  shall  occupy  approximately  170°  of  the 
total  cycle  and,  when  this  is  permitted,  a  simple  link  claw,  such  as 
that  shown  at  'A',  Figure  160  may  be  used.  It  will  be  realised  that 
the  design  of  the  shutter  is  closely  related  with  that  of  the  claw  and, 
when  the  simple  link  mechanism  is  used,  a  disc  shutter  as  shown 
at  'B'  may  be  used.  This  shutter  cuts  off  the  light  for  approximately 
180°  of  the  total  cycle  and,  therefore,  the  duration  of  the  exposure 
and  the  time  allotted  to  the  'pull-down'  motion  are  equal.  It 
should  be  noted  that  the  covering  angle  of  the  shutter  is  approxi- 
mately 180°  whereas  the  'pull-down'  occurs  within  170°  -  the  differ- 
ence between  these  two  amounts  enables  the  picture  aperture  to  be 
completely  covered  before  the  claw  commences  to  move  the  film 
forward  and,  after  the  movement  has  been  completed,  leaves  a 
sufficiently  large  section  of  the  shutter  blade  to  still  completely 
cover  the  aperture.  The  foregoing  dimensions  are  obviously  con- 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  371 

trolled  by  other  factors  such  as  the  distance  between  the  centre 
about  which  the  shutter  rotates  and  the  picture  aperture,  that  is, 
the  diameter  of  the  shutter,  and  the  relative  position  of  the 
aperture,  the  angle  through  which  the  eccentric  claw  pin  rotates  to 
completely  engage  the  claw  teeth,  etc.  In  short,  the  final  design  of 
the  shutter  blade  is  controlled  by  the  path  traced  out  by  the  claw 
teeth. 

If  the  claw  shown  at  'A',  Figure  160,  and  the  shutter  shown  at 
'B'  were  fitted  to  a  projector  mechanism  the  duration  of  the  'pull- 
down'  period  -  during  which  the  screen  would  be  dark  -  would  be 
equal  to  the  duration  of  the  period  in  which  the  picture  was  pro- 
jected and  both  would  take  place  at  a  frequency  of  16  or  24  cycles 
per  second  -  the  rates  at  which  silent  or  sound  films  are  projected. 
Although  such  an  arrangement  would  have  faithfully  reproduced 
the  conditions  under  which  the  film  was  recorded,  it  would  not 
lead  to  a  screen  picture  free  from  flicker.  The  screen  picture  will 
only  be  relatively  free  from  flicker  when  the  frequency  at  which  the 
still  pictures  are  shown  is  raised  to  approximately  48  interruptions 
per  second.  It  is  important  to  realise  that  it  is  not  necessary  to 
change  the  pictures  at  this  higher  frequency  -  indeed  it  is  most 
essential  that  the  rate  of  picture  change  should  be  equal  to  that 
which  took  place  in  the  camera  -  but  merely  to  interrupt  the  show- 
ing of  the  individual  frames  at  a  higher  frequency  than  that  at  which 
they  are  moved  forward.  To  say  that  pictures  will  only  appear 
perfectly  free  from  flicker  when  shown  at  such  a  rate  that  48 
interruptions  occur  each  second  is  not  necessarily  true  since  the 
appearance  of  flicker  is  also  largely  dependent  upon  the  brightness 
of  the  screen.  However,  with  any  of  the  normal  screen  brightnesses 
now  employed  flicker  will  be  below  the  visible  threshold  when 
such  a  frequency  is  employed. 

The  requirements  which  must  be  met  in  designing  a  projector 
intermittent  mechanism  and  shutter  blade  are  therefore  dependent 
upon  the  type  of  film  which  is  to  be  projected.  For  example,  if 
silent  pictures  are  to  be  projected  the  film  must  be  moved  forward 
at  a  rate  of  16-pictures  every  second  and,  at  the  same  time,  the 
screen  images  must  be  interrupted  at  a  rate  of  48  times  every 
second.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  projector  is  intended  for  use  with 
sound  films,  the  film  must  be  moved  forward  at  a  rate  of  24  pictures 
every  second  whilst  the  frequency  at  which  the  screen  images  are 
interrupted  must  still  be  maintained  at  48  every  second. 

In  the  first  example,  when  silent  films  are  being  projected,  any 
given  frame  or  picture  must  be  brought  into  the  projecting 
aperture  whilst  the  shutter  is  closed  and  must  then  be  projected 


372  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

onto  the  screen  three  times  before  it  is  moved  forward  and  is 
replaced  by  the  next  frame  in  the  series.  Thus,  if  each  frame  is 
projected  three  times,  and  the  frames  are  moved  forward  at  the 
rate  of  16  every  second,  screen  images  will  be  projected  at  the 
frequency  of  48  every  second.  When  sound  films  are  being  pro- 
jected any  given  frame  must  be  brought  into  the  projecting  aperture 
whilst  the  shutter  is  closed  and,  in  this  case,  need  only  be  projected 
onto  the  screen  twice  before  it  is  moved  forward  and  replaced  by 
the  succeeding  frame.  Since  sound  film  is  projected  at  a  rate  of 
24-frames  per  second  the  actual  screen  image  frquency  will  once 
more  be  maintained  at  48  per  second. 

Freedom  from  flicker  will  only  be  maintained  at  a  maximum  if 
the  dark  and  light  portions  of  the  screen  picture  cycle  are  of  equal 
duration.  If  it  is  also  assumed  that  the  shutter  will  make  one 
revolution  each  time  the  intermittent  mechanism  completes  one 
cycle  of  movement,  the  shutter  shown  at  'C,  Figure  160,  will  meet 
the  requirements  of  silent  projection.  Since  the  shutter  will  make 
1 6-revolutions  every  second  and  since  three  openings,  each  equal 
in  size  and  interlaced  with  similar  opaque  sections,  are  provided  in 
the  disc,  a  screen  image  frequency  of  48  per  second  will  be  obtained. 
It  is  important  to  realise  that  such  an  arrangement  requires  that  the 
film  shall  be  moved  forward  during  one-sixth  of  the  complete 
intermittent  cycle -that  is,  during  the  time  when  one  opaque 
section  of  the  shutter  is  covering  the  projection  aperture. 

When  sound  films  are  to  be  projected,  at  the  rate  of  24-pictures 
every  second,  a  shutter  similar  to  that  shown  at  'D',  Figure  160, 
may  be  used.  Assuming  once  more  that  the  shutter  will  rotate 
once  each  time  the  intermittent  mechanism  completes  one  cycle, 
it  will  only  be  necessary  to  employ  two  openings,  each  equal 
in  size  and  interlaced  with  similar  opaque  sections,  so  that  a 
screen  image  frequency  of  48  per  second  will  still  be  maintained. 
It  is  very  important  to  realise  that,  with  this  design,  it  is  now 
possible  to  employ  an  intermittent  mechanism  which  may  take  up 
to  90°  of  the  complete  cycle  in  which  to  pull-down  or  move  the 
film  forward.  Naturally,  it  is  advisable  to  take  full  advantage  of  this 
increased  pull-down  period  since,  by  so  doing,  the  load  applied  by 
the  claw  to  the  film  perforations  will  be  somewhat  lower  than  would 
exist  if  the  intermittent  mechanism  fitted  to  a  silent  projector  was 
also  employed  in  sound  machines.  The  load  referred  to  in  this 
instance  is  not  so  much  the  power  required  to  overcome  the  friction 
between  the  film  and  the  gate  as  the  force  of  impact  between  the 
claw  and  perforation  during  the  period  of  film  acceleration  from 
rest  to  maximum  speed.  This  period  of  acceleration  must  obviously 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  373 

be  maintained  as  long  as  possible  if  undue  strain  is  to  be 
avoided. 

It  is  therefore  necessary  to  employ  an  intermittent  mechanism 
capable  of  moving  the  film  forward  during  60°  of  the  cycle  when 
silent  films  are  projected  and,  when  sound  films  are  projected,  to 
employ  a  mechanism  which  only  completes  this  movement  after 
rotating  through  approximately  90°  of  the  complete  cycle.  The 
mechanism  shown  at  'E',  Figure  160,  consists  of  a  main  lever  'F', 
connected  to  an  eccentrically  rotating  pin  'G'  and  constrained  by 
a  second  lever  *H\  Lever  'H'  is  connected  by  a  pin  joint  to  the  main 
claw  lever  'F'  and,  at  its  other  extremity,  by  an  eccentrically 
rotating  pin  *  J'  to  a  wheel  rotating  at  twice  the  speed  at  which  wheel 
'K'  rotates.  By  this  combination  of  finks  and  eccentric  pins  the 
path  shown  at  *L'  will  be  traced  out  by  the  claw  tips,  the  'pull- 
down' will  be  accomplished  within  60°  of  the  complete  cycle  and 
over  that  portion  of  the  path  shown  to  the  left  of  the  vertical 
dotted  line.  This  mechanism  is,  therefore,  one  of  many  which  is 
suitable  for  use  in  silent  projectors  and  in  conjunction  with  the 
shutter  shown  at  'C,  Figure  160. 

If  links  are  replaced  by  one  solid  plate,  which  is  then  driven 
by  suitable  cams  instead  of  eccentric  pins,  a  mechanism  as  shown 
at  'M',  Figure  160,  will  be  produced.  This  arrangement  may  be  used 
in  conjunction  with  shutter  'D'  to  satisfy  the  requirements  met 
with  in  sound  projection.  In  the  design  shown  in  the  figure,  the 
location  of  the  main  claw  lever  'N'  is  controlled  by  two  cams  - 
one  to  move  the  claw  into  and  away  from  the  film  whilst  the  other 
causes  vertical  motion  to  move  the  film  forward.  The  shaft  which 
supports  the  rear  cam  T'  is  extended  to  pass  through  a  horizontal 
slot  cut  in  a  cover  plate  *Q\  Lever  'N'  is  therefore  variably  pivoted 
about  the  extended  shaft  so  that  it  may  move  towards  or  away  from 
the  film  gate  and  also  rotate  about  this  shaft.  Cam  'R'  rotates 
within  a  housing  so  that  contact  is  only  made  between  the  cam  and 
the  upper  and  lower  horizontal  walls  of  this  housing  -  cam  'R'  is 
therefore  only  capable  of  imparting  a  vertical  motion  to  the  claw 
lever.  The  combination  of  these  movements  causes  the  claw  pin 
to  trace  out  the  path  shown  to  the  left  of  the  figure  so  that  the 
vertical  movement,  to  the  left  of  the  dotted  line,  will  be  sub- 
stantially straight  and  will  take  place  over  one-quarter  of  the 
complete  cycle  of  operations. 

Some  projectors  may  be  operated  either  at  the  silent  speed  of 
16-frames  per  second  or  the  sound  speed  of  24-frames  per  second. 
Unless  provision  is  made  to  interchange  certain  sections  of  the 
mechanism  when  operating  at  the  different  film  speeds  it  is  not 


374  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

normally  possible  to  obtain  maximum  efficiency  at  both  speeds. 
If  the  silent  projector  shutter  and  claw  mechanism  shown  at  *C* 
and  'E\  Figure  160,  is  rotated  at  sound  film  speed  the  flicker 
frequency  will  rise  well  above  the  threshold  of  perception,  in  fact, 
it  will  rise  to  72  interruptions  per  second.  However,  this  high 
frequency  is  not  necessary  and  is  only  obtained  by  employing  a 
claw  mechanism  which  completes  the  pull-down  motion  within  60° 
of  the  total  cycle.  Whilst  this  rapid  pull-down  is  quite  permissible 
when  operating  at  16-frames  per  second,  the  added  strain  on  the 
film  perforations,  caused  by  operating  at  a  speed  higher  than  that 
for  which  the  intermittent  was  designed,  is  not  a  desirable  feature. 
On  the  other  hand,  if  the  sound  film  mechanism  shown  at  'D'  and 
'M',  Figure  160,  is  operated  at  a  speed  of  only  16-frames  per 
second  -  slower  than  that  for  which  it  was  designed  -  the  flicker 
frequency  will  thereby  be  reduced  to  32-cycles  per  second  and  will, 
of  course,  be  below  the  optimum  frequency.  Any  machine  provided 
with  speed  changing  devices  whereby  it  may  be  operated  at  both 
silent  and  sound  film  speeds,  but  which  is  not  provided  with 
interchangeable  parts,  must  obviously  result  in  a  compromise 
between  the  ideal  conditions  required  at  each  speed.  Since,  if 
sound  film  speed  is  provided  at  all,  it  is  more  advisable  to  maintain 
the  correct  conditions  when  operating  at  24-frames  per  second,  it 
is  usual  to  find  screen  flicker  to  become  noticeable  only  when  such 
machines  are  running  at  16-frames  per  second. 

Maltese  Cross  Intermittent  Movements 

At  this  point  one  may  very  well  ask  why  the  majority  of  16-mm 
projectors  are  fitted  with  some  form  of  claw  intermittent  mechanism 
whereas  35-mm  projectors  usually  employ  a  maltese  cross  and 
an  intermittent  sprocket  wheel  to  advance  the  film  through  the 
projector  gate.  One  reason  for  this  difference  is  that  the  claw 
mechanisms  are  relatively  simple  to  manufacture  and,  of  great 
importance,  that  they  all  repeat  the  entire  cycle  of  movement 
during  each  pull-down.  This  point  is  of  considerable  importance 
since  any  slight  errors  which  may  exist  in  the  claw  mechanism  will 
be  repeated  to  an  equal  extent  every  time  the  film  is  moved  forward 
from  one  frame  to  the  next. 

The  greater  accuracy  with  which  a  maltese  cross  mechanism 
must  be  manufactured  will  be  gathered  from  Figure  161.  The 
cross  itself  is  shown  at  'A'  and  is  mounted  upon  a  shaft  'F'  which 
also  carries  a  four-picture  sprocket  wheel  with  which  the  film  is 
held  in  contact.  A  'four-picture'  sprocket  is  one  of  such  a  diameter 
that  a  section  of  film  four  pictures  in  length  can  be  wrapped  around 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION 


375 


its  circumference.  Since  the  cross  consists  of  four  similar  quadrants, 
each  of  which  is  engaged  in  turn  with  the  driving  mechanism,  both 
the  cross  and  the  sprocket  rotate  through  90°  each  time  the  driving 
mechanism  comes  into  operation.  Pin  'B'  is  so  mounted  upon  flange 
'C  that,  as  this  flange  rotates  about  centre  'E',  it  will  cause  the 
pin  to  engage  with  one  of  the  four  slots  'S'  which  are  cut  in  the 
cross.  Slots  'S'  are  accurately  held  in  position  to  engage  with  pin 
'B'  by  means  of  a  locking  segment  'D'  which  is  arranged  to  rotate 
in  sliding  contact  with  the  radial  faces  of  the  cross.  A  section  of 
the  locking  ring  'D'  is  removed  over  an  area  in  the  vicinity  of  the 
pin  'B'  so  that  the  cross  may  rotate  whilst  the  pin  is  engaged  with 
any  one  of  the  slots  'S\ 

By  rotating  the  'pin-wheel'  continuously,  and  in  the  direction 
indicated  by  the  arrow,  the  cross  will  be  caused  to  rotate  inter- 
mittently, in  steps  of  one-quarter  revolutions  at  a  time  and  inter- 
spersed with  'rest'  periods  approximately  three  times  longer  than 
the  'shift'  period.  However,  the  accuracy  with  which  the  cross  and, 
therefore,  the  film  driving  sprocket  are  positioned  will  depend 
upon  the  accuracy  with  which  the  radial  faces  T,  '2',  '3'  and  '4' 
are  machined  and  also  the  closeness  with  which  they  fit  the  locking 
ring  'D\  Any  difference  between  the  positioning  of  successive 
sections  of  the  cross  will  result  in  picture  unsteadiness  on  the 
screen  which,  unlike  similar  degrees  of  inaccuracy  in  claw  mechan- 
isms, will  not  be  a  constant  amount  but  will  be  a  varying  movement 
repeated  at  intervals  every  four  pictures,  that  is,  at  a  frequency  of 
6  times  every  second.  This  figure  assumes  the  use  of  a  'four  picture' 
maltese  cross  and  a  film  speed  of  24-pictures  per  second. 


-HsK- 
Fig.  161.— The  maltese  cross  intermittent  mechanism. 


376  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Although  the  maltese  cross  must  therefore  be  manufactured  to 
exceptionally  close  tolerances  and,  in  consequence,  has  not  been 
generally  employed  in  16-mm  projectors,  it  has  several  advantages 
over  the  claw  mechanism  as  a  projector  intermittent  movement. 
Firstly,  it  is  possible  to  cause  a  considerable  number  of  film 
perforations  to  be  engaged  with  the  sprocket  wheel  and,  although  in 
theory,  only  one  perforation  will  be  in  contact  at  any  given  instant, 
the  film  is  sufficiently  flexible  for  the  load  to  be  distributed  amongst 
all  the  engaged  perforations  immediately  the  leading  perforation 
shows  signs  of  breaking  down.  Because  of  this  it  is  possible  to 
project  films  which  have  been  damaged  to  such  an  extent  that  a 
claw  mechanism  would  fail  to  operate  successfully.  Secondly, 
the  more  continual  wear  which  a  35-mm  projector  is  expected  to 
withstand  can  only  be  obtained  when  an  intermittent  of  very 
robust  design  is  employed. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  several  manufacturers  are  now 
fitting  maltese  cross  mechanisms  to  16-mm  projectors  intended  for 
professional  use  over  long  periods  of  uninterrupted  projection. 
However,  since  a  four-picture  16-mm  sprocket  would  be  exception- 
ally small,  the  mechanism  fitted  to  these  machines  is  of  the  six  or 
eight  picture  type  in  order  to  obtain  the  maximum  benefit  from 
engagement  between  the  film  and  a  great  number  of  sprocket  teeth. 
Unless  such  mechanisms  are  exceptionally  well  made  and, 
preferably,  housed  in  an  oil  bath,  it  is  usual  for  them  to  produce 
more  noise  than  is  created  by  the  majority  of  16-mm  projector  claw 
mechanisms.  Although  this  criticism  would  be  of  little  importance 
when  the  machine  is  used  in  large  halls  or  is  housed  in  projection 
booths,  it  would  apply  when  such  machines  are  used  in  small 
rooms  and  are  not  enclosed  in  some  form  of  'blimp'. 

It  is  perhaps  as  well  to  remember  that  the  majority  of  the  noise 
created  by  a  claw  mechanism  is  usually  caused  by  the  claw  pins 
making  contact  with  the  film  perforations  -  giving  rise  to  a  fairly 
high  pitched  note.  Since  the  film  is  in  constant  contact  with  the 
intermittent  sprocket  when  a  maltese  cross  mechanism  is  used  such 
noise  is  not  created  but,  in  place  of  it,  the  intermittent  engagement 
between  the  eccentric  driving  pin  and  the  slots  cut  in  the  cross 
itself  creates  a  noise  of  somewhat  lower  pitch  but  greater  volume. 

Picture  Steadiness 

Quite  apart  from  the  volume  of  noise  which  is  produced  by  any 
given  mechanism,  the  basic  requirement  of  any  intermittent  is  that 
it  shall  present  successive  frames  in  the  projecting  aperture  within 
close  limits.  In  other  words,  the  intermittent  must  maintain  a 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  377 

given  picture  steadiness  when  used  in  conjunction  with  films 
manufactured  to  be  within  accepted  tolerances. 

The  American  Standards  Association  has  published  a 
specification  covering  the  requirements  which  must  be  met  before 
any  16-mm  sound  projector  is  suitable  for  use  by  the  U.S.  Service 
Departments.  This  specification  is  known  as  'Z.52. 1-1944'  and 
includes  the  following  limitations  on  the  degree  of  picture  un- 
steadiness which  may  be  tolerated:  -  'Vertical  unsteadiness,  having 
a  period  shorter  than  1  second,  shall  not  exceed  0-2%  of  the 
picture  width  in  new  projectors  offered  for  inspection  and  shall  not 
exceed  0-3%  of  the  picture  width  in  projectors  which  have 
been  operating  for  a  period  of  500  hours.  Horizontal  unsteadiness 
having  any  period  whatsoever  shall  not  exceed  0-2%  of  the 
picture  width,  either  in  new  projectors  or  in  projectors  which  have 
been  operated  for  a  period  of  500  hours'. 

Shutter  Types  and  Efficiencies 

Assuming  that  an  intermittent  mechanism  of  suitable  design  and 
maximum  efficiency  has  been  obtained,  it  is  then  necessary  that  the 
shutter  shall  be  designed  to  operate  in  conjunction  with  this 
mechanism  and  to  preserve  this  efficiency.  As  mentioned  previously, 
the  shutter  is  employed  to  interrupt  the  light  beam  whilst  the 
intermittent  mechanism  is  moving  the  film  forward  and  also  to 
maintain  a  higher  flicker  frequency.  Within  certain  limits  it  is  an 
advantage  to  reduce  both  the  time  taken  by  the  intermittent 
mechanism  in  moving  the  film  forward  and  also  the  time  taken 
by  the  shutter  to  completely  obscure  the  picture.  Since  it  is  necessary 
to  cover  the  picture  aperture  completely  both  immediately  before 
and  after  the  film  is  in  motion,  those  parts  of  the  cycle  during  which 
the  aperture  is  actually  being  covered  or  revealed  can  only  be 
considered  as  lost  time.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  reduce  these 
periods  of  lost  or  wasted  time  to  a  minimum  if  high  efficiency 
is  to  be  obtained.  This  point  is  more  clearly  understood  by  reference 
to  Figure  162,  in  which  a  simple  shutter  blade  is  shown  at  'A'  in 
five  positions,  firstly  as  it  is  just  about  to  close  the  aperture, 
secondly,  when  the  aperture  has  been  completely  closed,  thirdly, 
during  the  'pull-down'  period  when  the  film  is  in  motion  through 
the  gate,  fourthly,  when  the  'pull-down'  has  just  been  completed 
and  the  aperture  is  about  to  be  revealed  and,  lastly,  when  the 
aperture  is  completely  revealed. 

The  angle  through  which  the  shutter  rotates  when  covering  the 
aperture  -  that  is,  when  moving  from  position  T  to  position  '2' 


378 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


®  © 

Fig.  162.— Shutter  "cut-off"  efficiency. 

is  indicated  at  'D\  This  motion  is  considered  to  represent  wasted 
time  since  the  film  must  remain  stationary  during  such  motion  to 
avoid  blurring  or  'ghost'  images  and  yet,  since  the  area  of  the 
frame  which  is  still  being  projected  will  be  continually  decreasing, 
such  periods  cannot  be  considered  as  true  'projection  time'. 
Similarly,  when  the  film  has  been  moved  forward  and  the  picture  is 
being  revealed  -  that  is,  when  the  shutter  is  moving  from  position 
'4'  to  position  '5'  -  the  angle  indicated  at  'E'  will  represent  a 
further  period  during  which  complete  projection  is  impossible  and 
during  which  the  film  must  be  stationary.  Since  the  speed  at  which 
the  picture  is  revealed  will  be  equal  and  complimentary  to  the 
speed  at  which  it  is  cut  off,  the  lost  time,  or  time  during  which 
parts  of  the  images  are  not  on  the  screen,  may  be  considered 
not  as  the  sum  of  angles  'D'  and  'E'  but  only  as  one  angle,  equal 
to  either  'D'  or  'E\ 

The  foregoing  consideration  therefore  indicates  that  the  total 
time  during  which  light  is  present  on  the  screen  is  made  up  as 
follows:  -Two  periods  'G',  position  '3',  Figure  162,  of  constant 
maximum  intensity,  plus  two  periods  'D/  of  continually  decreasing 
intensity  and  two  periods  'E^  of  continually  increasing  intensity. 
These  four  periods  'Dx'  and  lE19  become  additive  when  the  mech- 
anism is  running  at  a  constant  speed  and  result  in  an  effective  period 
of  exposure  equal  to  twice  'D/.  The  total  effective  time  of  pro- 
jection with  this  simple  shutter  blade  is  therefore  equal  to  '2G 
plus  2DX'  and  is,  therefore,  greater  than  would  be  apparent  on  first 
consideration. 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  379 

However,  during  that  part  of  the  cycle  when  the  film  is  in 
motion,  the  covering  sections  'Dx'  and  'E^  do  not  assist  the  inter- 
mittent in  any  way.  The  'pull-down'  must  always  take  place 
within  angle  'F',  position  '3',  Figure  162,  and  must  not  commence 
before  or  continue  beyond  the  boundaries  of  this  angle.  It  should 
now  be  apparent  that  the  effective  dark  and  light  periods  on  the 
screen  will  only  be  equal  when  the  opaque  sections  of  the  shutter 
are  slightly  larger  than  the  clear  sections.  In  the  example  under 
consideration  each  opaque  blade  should  be  increased  by  an  angle 
equal  to  'Dx'  if  the  dark  and  light  periods  are  to  be  equal. 

These  considerations  have  been  applied  to  a  practical  example 
and  are  shown  in  diagram  'B',  Figure  162,  in  which  a  double 
bladed  shutter  -  such  as  would  be  employed  in  a  sound  projector 
to  obtain  a  48  cycle  flicker  frequency  -  is  seen  to  be  symmetrically 
divided  into  four  equal  areas  of  90°  each.  Since  the  closing  and 
opening  of  the  aperture  must  be  of  equal  duration,  these  operations 
are  performed  by  areas  'HOK',  'LOP,  'JON'  and  'MOH'  and,  in 
this  case,  are  all  assumed  to  occupy  an  angle  of  10°  each.  The 
periods  when  the  aperture  is  completely  open  will  therefore  be 
equal  to  angles  'JOH'  which,  together  produce  a  total  'open' 
period  of  180°.  The  periods  of  partial  opening  or  closing  will  there- 
fore all  be  equal  to  angle  'HOK'  and,  since  the  change  from  'open' 
to  'closed'  occurs  four  times,  these  periods  will  effectively  increase 
the  showing  time  by  twice  the  angle  'HOK',  that  is,  by  20°.  The 
total  effective  showing  time  is  therefore  200°.  The  periods  during 
which  the  aperture  is  completely  masked  will  be  equal  to  angles 
'HOL'  and  'NOM'  which,  together  produce  a  total  'closed'  period 
of  140°  but,  to  this  amount  must  be  added  the  remaining  two 
'change-over'  periods  which  amount  to  20°.  The  total  effective 
period  during  which  the  screen  is  dark  is  therefore  equal  to  160° 
of  the  total  cycle. 

Obviously,  a  total  effective  'open'  period  of  200°  and  a  total 
effective  'closed'  period  of  160°  will  not  produce  a  balanced 
flicker  frequency  of  equal  periods  of  light  and  dark  on  the  screen. 
This  frequency  can  be  balanced  by  increasing  angles  'KOL'  and 
'HOM'  each  by  10°  and,  at  the  same  time,  decreasing  both  angles 
'HOJ'  by  equal  amounts.  Under  these  new  conditions  the  total 
effective  'open'  and  'closed'  periods  are  balanced  at  180°  each, 
whilst  the  completely  'open'  periods  are  each  80°,  the  four  'change- 
over' periods  are  each  10°  and  the  completely  closed  periods  are 
each  80°. 

It  will  be  realised  that  the  need  to  make  this  correction  to 
double-shutter  blades  such  as  that  shown  at  *B',  Figure  162, 


380  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

becomes  more  important  as  the  angle  required  for  the  'change- 
over' period  becomes  greater.  It  is  therefore  an  advantage  to  reduce 
these  'change-over'  angles  to  a  minimum  and,  with  shutters  of  this 
type,  such  reductions  can  only  be  made  by  increasing  the  outside 
diameter  of  the  shutter  blades.  Two  extreme  conditions  of  this 
effect  of  shutter  diameter  are  shown  in  diagram  'C,  Figure  162. 
When  the  shutter  is  of  a  very  small  diameter  and,  in  consequence, 
its  centre  of  rotation  is  very  near  to  the  projecting  aperture  'P',  the 
'change-over'  angle  during  which  the  aperture  is  being  cut  off  or 
revealed  will  be  very  large,  as  shown  at  'S'.  When  the  shutter 
is  of  a  much  greater  diameter  and  the  centre  of  rotation  may, 
in  consequence,  be  at  a  much  greater  distance  from  the  pro- 
jecting aperture  'Q',  the  'change-over'  period  is  accordingly 
reduced  to  the  order  indicated  at  *R\ 

To  sum  up  the  foregoing  considerations  it  may  be  stated  that 
the  change-over  angle  is  reduced  as  the  shutter  diameter  is  increased 
providing  that,  at  all  times,  the  aperture  is  placed  as  near  as 
possible  to  the  outside  diameter  of  the  shutter.  The  effect  such  a 
change-over  period  has  upon  the  balance  between  light  and  dark 
periods  upon  the  screen  becomes  proportionally  less  as  the  shuttter 
diameter  is  increased.  This  last  observation  is  only  true  of  shutters 
containing  clear  and  opaque  sections  of  equal  size  -  the  balance 
between  light  and  dark  periods  can  be  maintained  perfectly 
uniform  if  the  size  of  the  opaque  shutter  blade  is  increased  to 
exceed  the  size  of  the  clear  sections  as  explained  previously. 

Taking  these  considerations  still  further,  let  it  be  assumed  that, 
due  to  other  points  in  the  design  of  the  projector,  it  has  been  found 
that,  after  employing  the  greatest  possible  shutter  diameter, 
placing  the  aperture  in  the  most  advantageous  position  and 
making  the  necessary  correction  to  the  opaque  shutter  blades  to 
produce  a  balanced  flicker  frequency,  the  angles  which  remain, 
during  which  the  aperture  is  closed,  are  not  then  great  enough 
to  cover  the  period  required  by  the  intermittent  mechanism  to 
move  the  film  forward.  If  the  particular  intermittent  mechanism 
in  question  has  other  advantages  which  favour  its  use  it  is  then 
still  possible  to  increase  the  effective  angle  during  which  the 
aperture  is  closed. 

Diagram  T,  figure  163,  shows  one  arrangement  which  may  be 
employed  to  overcome  the  aforementioned  disadvantages.  This 
mechanism  employs  two  sets  of  shutter  blades,  mounted  upon  a 
common  centre  but  rotating  in  opposite  directions.  The  actual 
arrangement  of  the  blades  is  more  clearly  seen  in  diagram  '2', 
figure  163,  in  which  the  distance  between  the  blades  has  been 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION 


381 


greatly  increased  to  show  their  relative  positions  and  direction  of 
rotation.  Blades  'AOB'  and  'COD'  are  both  formed  in  one  plate 
whilst  blades  'EOF'  and  'GOH'  are  both  formed  in  a  second 
plate  which  is  arranged  to  rotate  in  a  direction  opposite  to  that 
of  the  first  plate.  In  practice  the  edge  'A'  of  blade  'AOB'  will 
reach  the  centre  line  of  the  projection  aperture  at  the  same  instant 
as  the  edge  'E'  of  blade  'EOF'  will  reach  this  point  and,  therefore, 
the  complete  aperture  will  be  covered  after  each  blade  has  moved 
through  a  'cut-off'  angle  only  half  that  which  would  be  necessary 
if  a  single  blade  were  used.  Because  of  this  the  remaining  angle, 
during  which  the  pull-down  may  take  place,  is  increased  by  an 
amount  equal  to  50  %  of  the  'cut-off  angle'. 


a    ,,„ 


Fig.  163. — A  double-shutter  mechanism  to  increase  "cut-off"  efficiency. 


Illumination  and  Screen  Brightness 

Although  some  models  of  Debrie,  Bell  and  Howell-Gaumont 
Kodak  and  Leitz  sound  projectors  are  now  fitted  with  a  carbon 
arc  source  of  illumination,  by  far  the  majority  of  the  machines 
employ  tungsten  filament  light  sources.  These  lamps  are  usually 
rated  to  operate  at  a  potential  of  110-Volts  and  to  consume  either 
300,  500,  750  to  1,000- Watts  per  hour.  The  resultant  screen 
brightness  which  is  obtained  in  any  given  projector  is  dependent 
upon  many  factors  such  as  the  lens  aperture,  efficiency  of  the, 
condenser  system,  type  and  position  of  the  reflector  and  efficiency 
of  the  shutter  and  is  not,  as  so  many  people  believe,  only  dependent 
upon  the  wattage  of  the  projection  lamp.  The  apparent  brightness 
of  the  screen  is  also  closely  related  with  the  eveness  of  that  illumina- 
tion which  reaches  it.  The  use  of  so  called  'coiled  coil'  lamp 
filaments  and  the  intelligent  placing  of  the  reflector  in  the  lamp- 
house  do  much  to  produce  an  even  illumination  at  all  points 
within  the  picture  area. 


382 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


ftfFLECTOR 


:cteo 
flament  (mages 


Fig.  164. — The  reflector  and  even  screen  illumination. 

The  purpose  of  a  reflector,  located  behind  the  lamp,  is  shown  in 
Figure  164  to  be  two  fold  -  firstly  to  increase  the  amount  of  light 
which  is  made  available  to  illuminate  the  picture  and,  secondly, 
to  spread  the  intensity  of  illumination  more  evenly  throughout  the 
aperture.  The  positions  of  the  various  components  should  be  so 
arranged  that  the  condenser  lenses  collect  the  largest  possible  cone 
of  light  from  the  lamp  filament  and  bring  it  to  a  focus  at  a  point 
very  near  the  back  element  of  the  objective  lens.  The  film  gate 
should  be  as  near  as  possible  to  the  objective  lens  -  to  ensure  that 
light  is  not  wasted  -  but  should  not  be  so  near  to  this  lens  that  the 
cone  of  light  is  smaller  than  the  diagonal  of  the  aperture  in  the  gate. 
Obviously,  the  relative  positions  of  the  lamp,  condenser  lens,  film 
gate  and  objective  lens  are  interdependent  and  each  component 
must  be  designed  or  selected  for  its  ability  to  operate  in  conjunction 
with  the  others  and  to  produce  a  screen  picture  of  the  required 
dimensions  and  quality. 

If  the  reflector  is  first  swung  out  of  position,  and  the  objective 
lens  is  removed  from  its  mount,  it  will  then  be  possible  to  obtain 
images  on  the  screen  of  the  coils  of  the  lamp  filament.  These 
images  will  be  of  the  'direct  filament  images'  indicated  in  diagram 
'A*,  Figure  164.  The  lamp  should  then  be  moved  until  these 
images  are  symmetrically  placed  within  the  screen  boundaries.  If 
the  reflector  is  then  brought  into  position  it  will  be  found  that 
a  second  series  of  filament  images  -  shown  as  the  'reflected 
images'  in  diagram  'A'  -  can  be  arranged  to  occupy  the  spaces 
between  the  direct  filament  images.  When  these  reflected  images 
are  symmetrically  placed  between  the  direct  images  the  reflector 
should  be  locked  in  position  and,  on  replacing  the  objective  lens, 
the  screen  should  be  found  to  be  as  evenly  illuminated  as  the 
particular  optical  system  will  permit. 


16-MM   SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  383 

Only  in  very  severe  cases,  as  when  coloured  bars  of  light  appear 
on  the  screen,  is  it  possible  to  observe  uneven  illumination  although, 
of  course,  gradual  increasing  in  brightness  towards  the  centre  of 
the  screen  is  almost  always  present.  To  ensure  that  the  difference 
between  the  light  intensity  at  various  points  across  the  screen 
does  not  become  too  great  the  following  recommendations  have 
been  made  by  the  American  Standards  Association: -(1)  That 
the  average  illumination  at  the  four  corners  shall  not  be  less  than 
65  %  of  the  illumination  of  the  centre.  (2)  That  the  illumination 
at  any  one  corner  shall  not  be  less  than  50  %  of  the  illumination 
at  the  centre  of  the  screen. 

Projection  Aperture 

A  further  standard  dimension  which  should  be  observed  by  all 
projector  manufacturers  relates  to  the  size  of  the  aperture  in  the 
film  gate.  Since  it  is  not  possible  to  guarantee  that  any  given 
film  will  pass  through  both  the  camera  and  the  projector  in  exactly 
similar  positions  it  is  necessary  to  ensure  that  any  slight  mis- 
placement which  may  occur  will  not  be  apparent  to  the  audience. 
The  projector  aperture  is  therefore  always  made  slightly  smaller 
than  the  camera  aperture  and,  in  the  case  of  16-mm  equipment, 
the  width  of  the  projector  aperture  is  0-030-inches  (0-762-mm) 
smaller  than  the  camera  aperture  and  the  height  is  reduced  by 
0-010-inches  (0-254-mm).  The  dimensions  recommended  for 
projector  apertures  are  O-380-inches  (9  -652-mm)  wide  and  0  -284- 
inches  (7-213-mm)  high. 

This  smaller  projection  aperture  is  of  great  importance  to  camera- 
men and,  particularly,  those  who  photograph  titles  or  diagrams  in 
which  the  material  is  likely  to  reach  the  frame  boundaries.  To 
ensure  that  all  the  relevant  material  which  is  recorded  through  the 
camera  aperture  will  also  pass  through  the  projector  aperture  a 
clear  border  of  0-015-inches  (0-380-mm)  should  exist  between 
the  extremities  of  the  scene  and  the  edge  of  the  camera  aperture. 
However,  since  such  a  margin  will  only  ensure  that  the  scene  edges 
are  just  within  the  projector  aperture,  this  border  should  be  in- 
creased still  further  to  provide  an  additional  safety  margin  and  to 
guard  against  the  possibility  of  the  ends  of  words  being  masked  off 
when  long  or  badly  spaced  titles  are  to  be  photographed.  The 
border  between  the  scene  and  the  edges  of  the  camera  aperture 
should  therefore  be  no  less  than  0-030-inches  (0-760-mm), 
although,  unless  cameras  are  employed  which  provide  some  form 
of  direct  vision  viewfinder  by  which  the  actual  scene  is  observed 
through  the  objective  lens,  it  will  be  difficult  to  estimate  such 


384  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

margins  to  any  great  accuracy.  When  such  cameras  are  not  available 
it  is  advisable  to  ensure  that  a  margin  considerably  larger  than  the 
foregoing  recommendations  is  obtained. 

Projection  Lens  and  Screen  Sizes 

The  size  of  the  pictures  thrown  on  any  screen  will  depend  upon  the 
focal  length  of  the  lens  which  is  supplied  with  the  projector  and 
also  the  distance  between  the  machine  and  the  screen.  Most  pro- 
jectors are  now  fitted  with  lens  mounts  which  are  so  designed 
that  a  variety  of  lenses  of  different  focal  lengths  may  be  used.  The 
dimensions  of  any  screen  picture  will  always  be  doubled  if  the 
distance  between  the  projector  and  the  screen  is  increased  to  twice 
the  original  length,  For  example,  if  a  lens  of  0-75-inch  (18-75-mm) 
focal  length  is  used,  the  picture  width  will  be  1-ft  6-in  (45-cms)  at  a 
throw  of  3-ft  (90-cms),  will  be  increased  to  3-ft  (90-cms)  at  a  throw 
of  6-ft  (180-cms),  6-ft  (180-cms)  at  a  throw  of  12-ft  (360-cms)  and  so 
on  as  the  throw,  or  distance  between  the  projector  and  screen  is 
increased.  If  the  throw  is  maintained  at  a  constant  distance  the 
size  of  the  picture  will  be  decreased  as  lenses  of  longer  focal 
length  are  employed.  For  instance,  if  the  throw  is  standardised  at 
50-ft  (15-2-metres),  the  picture  width  will  be  25-ft  (7 -5-metres) 
when  a  lens  of  0-75-inches  (18  '75-mm)  focal  length  is  employed, 
18-ft  8-inches  (566-cms)  when  a  1  -0-inch  (25-mm)  lens  is  employed, 
12-ft  6-inch  (381-cms)  when  a  lens  of  1  -5-inches  (37  -5-mm)  is 
used  or  9-ft  4-inch  (288-cms)  when  the  focal  length  of  the  lens  is 
increased  to  2-0-inch  (50-mms). 

It  will  therefore  be  apparent  that  a  variety  of  screen  sizes  can  be 
obtained  when  the  projector  is  placed  at  a  fixed  distance  from  the 
proscenium  and,  quite  naturally,  it  is  desirable  to  use  only  that 
screen  size  which  is  most  suitable  for  the  auditorium  and  will 
permit  easy  viewing  without  causing  undue  eye  strain.  As  we  know, 
the  Society  of  Motion  Pictures  Engineers  have  recommended  that 
the  size  of  the  screen  shall  bear  the  following  relationship  to  the 
distribution  of  the  audience  throughout  the  auditorium:  -(1)  That 
the  nearest  seat  shall  not  be  closer  to  the  screen  than  0-87  times 
the  screen  width  and,  (2)  that  the  most  distant  seat  shall  not  be 
more  than  6  •  0  times  the  screen  width  away  from  the  screen.  If  it 
is  assumed  that  the  projector  must  be  housed  in  an  operating  box 
at  the  rear  of  the  hall  and,  therefore,  it  is  possible  to  determine 
these  dimensions  with  some  exactness,  the  following  will  serve  as 
an  example  of  the  practical  application  of  these  recommendations. 
Let  it  be  assumed  that  the  distance  between  the  projector  and 
the  screen  is  fixed  at  50-ft  (15  -2-metres).  The  only  known  condition 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM   PROJECTION  385 

is  the  length  of  the  hall  and,  if  the  projection  box  is  built  out  to 
overhang  the  rear  wall  so  that  the  back  row  of  seats  may  be  placed 
at  a  distance  of  56-ft  (17-068-metres)  from  the  screen,  this  distance 
must  be  equal  to  six  times  the  screen  width,  that  is,  the  screen 
width  must  be  9-ft  4-inches  (283-cms).  The  only  lens  which  will 
produce  such  a  screen  picture  at  a  throw  of  50-ft  (15  -2-metres) 
is  one  which  has  a  focal  length  of  2  -0-inches  (50-mm)  and  is, 
therefore,  the  correct  lens  to  be  used  under  these  conditions. 

The  Addition  of  Sound  to  16-mm  Projection 

The  earliest  efforts  to  add  sound  accompaniment  to  16-mm  silent 
pictures  consisted  of  merely  playing  suitable  background  music, 
reproduced  from  gramophone  records,  and  suitably  timed  to 
be  in  rough  synchronism  with  the  mood  of  the  scenes  as  they  were 
projected.  By  the  use  of  dual  record  playing  tables,  and  inter- 
connected volume  controls  to  the  amplifiers,  it  was  possible  to  fade 
the  sounds  smoothly  from  one  record  to  another  and  to  maintain  an 
apparently  uninterrupted  musical  background  to  films  of  any  length. 

Several  disc  sound  recording  instruments  were  then  made 
available  whereby  the  enthusiast  could  'post  record'  speech  in 
synchronism  with  an  edited  version  of  the  picture  film.  The  method 
employed  to  produce  these  early  16-mm  talking  pictures  was  first 
to  shoot  the  film  in  the  normal  manner  and  afterwards  to  edit  the 
reversal  positive  until  the  desired  effects  were  obtained.  The 
disc  recording  apparatus  was  so  designed  that  a  flexible  coupling 
from  it  to  a  suitable  shaft  extended  from  the  silent  projector 
mechanism  ensured  that  the  turn-table  would  rotate  in  synchronism 
with  the  speed  of  the  projector.  The  disc  on  which  the  recording 
was  to  be  made  was  then  placed  on  the  turn-table  and  the  cutting 
stylus  was  lowered  into  the  starting  groove  in  the  record  blank. 
At  the  same  instant  the  leader  film  of  suitable  length  would  be 
passing  through  the  projector  ahead  of  the  actual  pictures  and 
of  such  a  length  that  the  recorder  and  projector  would  both  reach 
full  speed  just  before  the  first  picture  was  projected.  The  actors 
who  originally  appeared  in  the  film  then  spoke  the  necessary 
dialogue  in  synchronism  with  their  own  images  and  as  they 
appeared  on  the  screen. 

At  their  best  these  disc  recordings  were  only  satisfactory  when 
the  operator  exercised  considerable  skill  and  when  the  actors 
were  able  to  repeat  their  'lines'  in  perfect  sychronism  with  the 
photographic  images.  The  introduction  of  photographic  recording 
and  reproduction  of  sound  on  standard  35-mm  film,  and  the 
subsequent  optical  reduction  printing  of  these  standard  sound  tracks 

25 


386  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

onto  16-mm  films,  quickly  lead  to  the  appearance  of  16-mm  projector 
mechanisms  capable  of  reproducing  such  tracks  by  a  means 
essentially  similar  to  that  employed  in  professional  equipment. 

Types  of  Sound  Track 

As  we  found  in  Chapter  7,  the  photographic  recording  of  sound 
waves  may  be  accomplished  by  two  similar  mechanisms,  each  of 
which  produces  a  variation  in  photographic  exposure  which  is 
directly  related  to  the  variations  in  electrical  current  set  up  in  the 
recording  apparatus  by  the  incident  sounds.  The  two  main 
characteristics  of  any  sound  which  must  be  represented  on  the 
photographic  record  are  the  frequency  and  the  volume  of  the  notes. 
Figure  165  shows  once  more  the  two  basic  types  of  photographic 
records  and  the  means  whereby  these  two  characteristics  are 
represented. 

In  all  cases  it  must  be  realised  that  an  exceptionally  narrow 
horizontal  strip  of  the  sound  track  will  be  present  at  the  sound 
reproducing  point  at  any  given  instant  and,  since  the  speed  at 
which  the  film  passes  this  point  must  be  very  accurately  maintained 
at  the  rate  of  7-20-inches  (180-mm)  per  second  with  16-mm  film 
the  frequency  of  the  note  will  be  represented  by  the  number  of 
changes  in  the  record  which  pass  the  scanning  point  in  one  second. 
The  volume  of  the  note  will  be  proportional  to  the  size  of  the 
changes  in  the  record. 

When  the  Variable  Area  type  recordings  are  made  a  negative 
similar  to  that  shown  to  the  left  of  Figure  165  is  produced  in  which 
an  exposure  of  constant  density  is  seen  to  vary  in  width.  If  the 
sound  is  a  simple  pure  note  the  recorded  'wave-form'  will  smoothly 
change  from  a  minimum  width  central  exposure  to  a  maximum 
width  exposure  and  then  back  once  more  to  a  minimum  at  a  speed 
equal  to  the  frequency  of  the  note.  Thus,  the  number  of  'peaks', 
such  as  'AAA',  which  occur  in  a  given  film  length  is  directly  related 
to  the  frequency  of  the  note  -  when  these  peaks  are  close  together, 
the  frequency  or  'pitch'  of  the  note  will  obviously  be  high  and 
when  they  are  widely  spaced,  as  at  'BBB',  the  frequency  will  be 
correspondingly  lower.  The  maximum  width  to  which  the  record- 
ing extends  is  shown  at  'C  and,  when  the  film  is  subsequently 
scanned  in  the  sound  reproducer,  the  change  in  the  amount  of  light 
which  can  pass  through  a  given  narrow  slit  when  the  film  is  moving 
infront  of  it  will  be  relatively  small.  Since  this  change  in  light 
transmission  is  low  so  also  will  be  the  resultant  volume  of  sound. 

If  notes  having  frequencies  identical  with  tracks  'AA'  and 
*BB'  are  then  recorded  at  a  much  greater  volume  level  the  resultant 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION 


387 


'wave-form'  will  be  as  seen  at  'DD'  and  'EE\  Figure  165.  It 
should  be  noticed  that  the  distance  between  the  peaks  'DD'  is 
equal  to  that  between  peaks  'AA'  and,  similarly,  the  distance 
between  peaks  'EE'  is  equal  to  that  between  peaks  'BB'  -  the 
frequencies  have  therefore  remained  as  before.  However,  the 
amplitude  'F'  is  seen  to  have  greatly  increased  and,  therefore, 
if  a  similar  narrow  slit  is  now  placed  infront  of  the  moving  film 
and  a  light  beam  is  directed  onto  it,  the  amount  of  light  which 
will  be  transmitted  through  the  film  will  change  by  much  greater 
amounts  than  occured  in  the  previous  example.  Since  the  change 
in  transmission  has  now  become  large  the  volume  of  sound  must 
also  have  increased  proportionally. 

A  similar  analysis  of  the  Variable  Density  method  of  sound 
recording  is  seen  to  the  right  of  Figure  165.  The  four  conditions 
illustrated  represents  the  type  of  record  obtained  when  high  and 
low  frequencies  of  both  high  and  low  volume  are  recorded  and, 
therefore,  provide  a  direct  comparison  between  the  two  systems. 

Both  variable  area  and  variable  density  tracks  can  be  reproduced 
equally  well  by  any  sound  scanning  mechanism  since  the  photo- 
graphic record  is  only  a  means  whereby  variations  in  frequency 
and  amplitude  may  be  registered  and  subsequently  used  to  modu- 
late the  scanning  mechanism.  The  basic  principles  of  sound  re- 
production are  more  clearly  shown  in  Figure  166  where  the  main 
elements  of  the  system  are  indicated. 


VARIABLE   AREA    TRACKS 


.VARIABLE     DENSITY    TRACKS 


HIGH   FREQUENCY- 


LOW    FREQUENCY. 


LOW  AMPLITUDE 
THEREFORE   LOW    VOLUME 


HIGH   FREQUENCY- 


LOW  CONTRAST 

THEREFORE 
LOW  VOLUME 


HIGH  CONTRAST 

THEREFORE 
HIGH    VOLUME 


HIGH  AMPLITUDE 
THEREFORE  HIGH  VOLUME 


Fig.  165. — Volume  and  frequency  characteristics  of  Variable  Area  and  Variable 
Density  Sound  Recording. 


388 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Fig.  166. — Projector  sound-head  design. 


As  is  well  known,  the  current  generated  in  a  photo-electric  cell 
when  illuminated  by  a  constant  intensity  light  source  is,  over  a 
wide  range,  proportional  to  the  strength  of  that  source.  If,  therefore, 
the  film  shown  in  diagram  'A',  Figure  166,  is  removed  and  the 
intensity  of  the  exciter  lamp  is  varied  by  some  external  controlling 
device,  the  current  generated  in  the  photo-cell  can  be  measured  and 
compared  with  the  variations  in  the  lamp.  Such  a  current  is, 
originally,  very  weak  and  must  therefore  be  strengthened  by  a  pre- 
amplifier (located  within  the  projector  body  in  16-mm  mechanism) 
before  it  can  be  passed  through  the  considerable  length  of  cable 
which  usually  connects  the  projector  with  the  main  amplifier. 
This  amplifier  is  usually  located  with  the  speaker,  but  in  some 
cases,  can  be  separated  therefrom.  Obviously,  any  variations 
in  the  intensity  of  the  exciter  lamp  will  cause  a  variation  in  the 
output  from  the  photo-cell  and,  therefore  the  supply  to  that  lamp 
must  be  perfectly  constant  and,  preferably,  should  be  from  a 
Direct  Current  source.  If  the  film  is  then  replaced  in  the  position 
shown  in  diagram  'A'  the  light  beam  to  the  photo-cell  will  be 
modified  in  proportion  to  the  effective  transmission  of  the  sound 
track  on  that  film.  Since  it  is  necessary  to  reproduce  the  highest 
frequencies  which  have  been  recorded,  the  exciter  lamp  and  associ- 
ated optical  system  must  be  capable  of  isolating  one  cycle  of  the 
highest  frequency  likely  to  be  encountered,  that  is,  the  area  of  the 
sound  track  which  receives  illumination  must  be  exceptionally 
small  -  the  height  of  the  area,  measured  along  the  film  length, 
usually  being  of  the  order  of  one  half-thousandths  of  an  inch  in 
16-mm  projectors. 

Various  methods  have  been  used  to  obtain  this  very  narrow 
'slit'  or  scanning  area  and,  in  the  design  shown,  the  objective 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  389 

lens  is  capable  of  producing  a  reduced  image  of  the  lamp  filament 
at  the  plane  of  the  film.  Because  of  this  the  filament  must  be  of 
the  single  horizontal  coil  variety  and  must  not  tend  to  sag  when 
heated.  Any  movement  away  from  the  optical  centre  would 
displace  the  beam  of  light  passing  from  the  film  to  the  photo-cell. 
If  the  film  is  then  caused  to  move  past  this  scanning  beam  at  a 
constant  rate  the  beam  of  light  passing  to  the  photo-cell  will  be 
modified  at  a  frequency  dependent  upon  the  variations  in  the 
photographic  image. 

Sound  Scanning  Apertures 

Many  sound  projectors  employ  a  mechanical  slit  at  the  scanning 
point  instead  of  the  reduced  image  of  the  exciter  lamp  filament  as 
shown  in  Diagram  'A',  Figure  166.  One  such  arrangment  is  shown 
in  Diagram  'B'  in  which  it  is  possible  to  employ  a  mechanical  slit 
ten  times  larger  than  the  actual  height  which  is  scanned  on  the 
film.  In  this  design  the  objective  lens  throws  an  enlarged  image  of 
the  sound  track  onto  a  correspondingly  large  slit.  Such  an  arrange- 
ment has  two  main  advantages;  firstly  that  the  actual  position  of 
the  exciter  lamp  filament  is  no  longer  important  since  the  beam  of 
light  from  this  lamp  is  only  used  to  evenly  illuminate  the  required 
scanning  region  and,  secondly,  a  mechanical  slit  ten  times  larger 
than  the  scanned  area  may  be  more  easily  manufactured  than  one 
which  is  equal  in  size  to  this  area. 

The  actual  dimensions  of  any  mechanical  slit  may  therefore 
vary  considerably  from  one  machine  to  the  next  although,  by  the 
use  of  suitable  optical  systems,  all  scanning  light  beams  should 
have  an  effective  size  equal  to  the  following  standard  recommenda- 
tions: (1)  The  scanning  slit  height  -  measured  along  the  film 
length -shall  be  between  0-0005  and  0-0007-inch  (0-0125  and 
0-0175-mm)  and  (2)  the  scanning  slit  width  -  measured  across 
the  film -shall  be  between  0-070  and  0-072-inch  (1-778  and 
1-829-mm). 

With  such  very  small  areas  of  illumination,  and  the  size  of 
any  one  cycle  of  a  high  frequency  note,  it  is  very  necessary  that 
the  optical  units  used  in  the  sound  head  may  be  critically  focused 
onto  either  surface  of  the  film,  that  is,  on  either  the  surface 
nearest  to  or  furthest  from  the  exciter  lamp  when  the  film  is  in  the 
plane  indicated  in  Figure  166.  This  provision  is  necessary  since, 
although  the  emulsion  surface  may  in  most  cases  be  towards  the 
light  source,  for  special  processes  it  may  be  in  the  reverse  position 
and,  naturally,  critical  focusing  will  only  be  obtained  when  the 
optical  system  is  sharply  focused  on  the  emulsion  itself. 


390  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Exciter  Lamps 

It  has  been  stated  that  the  photographic  sound  record  is  actually  a 
means  whereby  a  constant  light  may  be  modified  in  intensity  and 
at  definite  frequencies.  The  exciter  lamp  must  therefore  be  abso- 
lutely free  from  any  variations  within  itself  since  any  variations 
in  light  output  would  be  superimposed  upon  the  intentional 
variations  caused  by  the  photographic  sound  track.  Exciter  lamps 
must  present  a  perfectly  constant  light  beam  to  the  film  scanning 
aperture. 

When  the  exciter  lamp  can  be  fed  by  a  direct  current  supply 
this  condition  can  be  easily  satisfied  but,  should  the  supply 
necessarily  be  of  the  alternating  current  type,  one  of  two  main 
arrangements  should  be  employed.  Firstly,  if  it  is  assumed  that  so 
called  'raw  A.C  or  unsmoothed  alternating  current  is  fed  to  the 
lamp,  only  lamps  having  exceptionally  heavy  filaments  should  be 
used.  The  light  output  from  a  heavy  filament  remains  substantially 
constant  even  when  the  supply  varies  within  small  limits.  However, 
if  relatively  light  filaments  are  used,  the  wire  is  able  to  cool  down 
very  rapidly  and,  if  examined  carefully,  will  be  seen  to  alternate 
in  brightnesss  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  frequency  of  the  A.C.  supply  - 
such  lamps  would,  of  course,  give  rise  to  a  low  pitched  hum  if 
used  in  the  sound  head  of  a  projector  mechanism. 

If  it  is  not  desirable  or  not  possible  to  use  a  heavy  filament 
lamp,  the  supply  may  be  fed  through  a  high  frequency  generating 
circuit  so  that  the  frequency  of  the  resultant  current  which  reaches 
the  lamp  is  above  the  audible  range.  Light  filament  wires  may  then 
be  used  since,  although  the  variations  in  intensity  may  pass  to  the 
amplifier,  they  will  not  only  be  above  the  audible  range  but  also 
above  the  top  frequency  response  of  the  amplifier  itself. 

Film  Drive  at  the  Scanning  Point 

The  sounds  reproduced  by  the  loudspeaker  will  only  be  a  faithful 
interpretation  of  the  photographic  record  when  the  film  is  moved 
past  the  scanning  point  at  a  perfectly  uniform  rate.  Just  as  varia- 
tions in  exciter  lamp  intensity  may  cause  a  low  pitched  hum  in  the 
reproduction,  so  will  variations  in  the  film  speed  cause  distortions 
in  the  reproduction  of  the  actual  sound  record.  Distortions  due  to 
speed  variations  are  known  as  'wowing'  since  they  cause  the 
pitch  of  the  reproduced  note  to  be  raised  and  lowered  at  a 
relatively  slow  rate  -  usually  of  the  order  of  three  cycles  per 
second  although,  of  course,  this  rate  will  vary  considerably  from 
one  machine  to  another. 
Two  main  systems  are  used  at  present  to  maintain  uniform  film 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM   PROJECTION 


391 


motion  at  the  sound  scanning  point.  Firstly,  the  film  may  be  pulled 
over  a  stationary  gate,  in  which  it  is  accurately  located  by  edge 
guides,  and  at  which  the  scanning  takes  place.  Secondly,  by  so 
designing  a  rotating  drum  that  the  sound  track  may  be  scanned  at 
a  point  on  the  drum  surface.  The  first  of  these  designs  is  shown  in 
principle  in  diagram  'A',  Figure  167.  In  this  arrangement  the  film 
is  moved  intermittently  through  the  picture  gate  and  is  then 
formed  in  a  relatively  large  free  loop  until  it  is  constrained  by 
spring  loaded  edge  guides  to  pass  over  the  curved  surface  of  a 
stationary  scanning  gate.  It  is  at  this  point  that  the  sound  repro- 
duction commences.  The  film  is  pulled  through  the  gate  by 
means  of  a  constant  speed  drum  -  contact  between  the  drum  and 
the  film  is  over  such  a  large  area  that  sufficient  power  is  imparted 
to  the  film  to  overcome  the  friction  in  the  scanning  gate.  The 
film  then  passes  over  the  usual  take-up  sprocket  and  so  to  the 
take-up  spool. 

When  the  projector  commences  to  operate  the  film  between  the 
drum  and  the  take-up  sprocket  is  pulled  taut  by  the  sprocket  and 
the  drum  is  thereby  caused  to  rotate.  This  drum  is  mounted  in 
very  free  bearings  and  is  attached  to  a  shaft  which  also  carries  a 
heavy  flywheel.  As  the  machine  gathers  speed  the  flywheel  will 


FILM  GATE  - 

PICTURE 

PROJECTION 


CONSTANT 
SPEED  DHUM 


PICTURE  GATE 


TAKE-UP 
SPROCKET 


FILM   SCANNED 
AT  THIS  POINT 


ROTARY     SOUND 
SCANNING    DRUM 


SCANNING    DRUM 


SCANNING 
POINT 


SCANNING    DRUM 


WORM 
DRIVE 


Fig.  167. — Sound  film  transport  at  the  scanning  point. 


lJ 

_ WORM 

—J     WHEEL 


VISCOUS   OIL 
COUPLE 


392  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

attain  sufficient  momentum  to  pull  the  film  through  the  scanning 
gate  at  a  relatively  uniform  speed.  If  the  take-up  sprocket  wheel  is 
inaccurately  cut,  or  if  the  drive  to  this  wheel  is  not  perfectly 
uniform,  it  will  tend  to  move  the  film  forward  at  an  uneven  speed. 
When  this  occurs  the  flywheel  has  the  ability  to  *  over-run'  the 
sprocket  if  it  tends  to  slow  down  or,  on  the  other  hand,  to  resist 
acceleration  should  the  sprocket  tend  to  impart  a  momentary 
increase  in  speed  to  the  film. 

This  design  has  the  disadvantage  that  scratches  may  easily  be 
made  in  the  film  as  it  is  pulled  through  the  scanning  gate  unless  the 
'gate  runners'  are  very  highly  polished  and  carefully  maintained. 
The  design  shown  in  diagram  'B',  Figure  167,  overcomes  this 
objection  by  dispensing  with  the  stationary  scanning  gate  and 
actually  scanning  the  film  at  a  point  where  it  is  in  contact  with  the 
rotating  drum.  The  drum  is  again  rotated  at  a  uniform  speed  by 
means  of  a  heavy  flywheel  but,  in  some  cases,  two  pairs  of  jockey 
rollers  -  shown  at  'E'  and  'F'  -  are  provided  to  accommodate  any 
'flexing'  in  the  film  path  due  to  uneven  motion  of  the  take-up 
sprocket  wheel  or  slight  variations  in  the  film  itself. 

It  will  be  obvious  that,  since  the  light  beam  must  pass  through 
the  film  at  the  point  where  scanning  takes  place,  the  drum  must  not 
be  equal  in  width  to  the  film  itself  but  must  be  smaller  than  this 
width,  as  shown  in  diagram  'C,  Figure  167.  Since  the  film  is 
curved  around  the  drum  to  a  fairly  small  radius,  the  film  may 
'overhang'  the  scanning  drum  without  fear  of  its  moving  in  or 
out  of  the  true  focal  plane  of  the  optical  system. 

Diagram  'D',  Figure  167,  shows  a  cross-sectional  view  of  a 
further  system  used  to  ensure  constant  scanning  drum  speed. 
In  this  design  some  measure  of  positive  drive  is  imparted  to  the 
drum  by  means  of  a  viscous  coupling  between  the  interior  of  the 
flywheel  and  the  main  projector  driving  mechanism.  This  viscous 
couple  is,  in  effect,  one  drum  mounted  within  another  and  in  such 
close  proximity  that  a  thin  film  of  highly  viscous  oil  will  impart  a 
driving  force  from  the  inner  drum  -  which  is  driven  from  the  pro- 
jector mechanism  -  to  the  outer  drum,  which  is  solidly  connected 
to  the  film  scanning  drum.  This  combination  of  a  viscous  drive  and 
the  normal  flywheel  effect,  due  to  the  mass  of  the  outer  drum, 
causes  a  more  complete  isolation  from  the  take-up  sprocket 
since  the  scanning  drum  is  now  not  dependent  upon  this  sprocket 
for  its  driving  power.  The  oil  used  is  very  carefully  selected  to 
ensure  that  its  viscous  properties  do  not  change  to  any  great 
extent  when  the  temperature  of  the  oil  rises  after  the  machine 
has  been  running  for  some  time. 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM   PROJECTION  393 

Sound  Lead  Ahead  of  the  Picture 

The  two  main  requirements  which  must  be  met  by  any  sound 
projector  are  that  it  will  move  the  film  intermittently,  and  at  a 
rate  of  24-pictures  per  second,  through  the  picture  gate  and  that  it 
will  then  replace  this  intermittent  motion  by  a  perfectly  uniform 
forward  motion  at  the  point  where  the  sound  is  to  be  reproduced. 
Obviously,  the  actual  mechanism  used  to  convert  intermittent 
motion  into  continuous  motion  varies  considerably  from  one 
machine  to  the  next.  It  is  therefore  important  that  the  distance 
between  the  picture  and  sound  scanning  points  shall  be  standard- 
ised so  that  all  films  may  be  produced  with  the  relevant  sound 
printed  a  known  distance  ahead  of  the  corresponding  picture 
image.  The  standardised  'sound  lead'  for  16-mm  films  is  such  that 
the  sound  which  is  scanned  at  any  given  instant  shall  be  in  true 
synchronism  with  the  picture  which  is  located  26-frames  behind 
that  sound,  that  is,  the  sound  is  printed  26-frames  ahead  of  the 
picture.  This  'sound  lead',  in  terms  of  the  number  of  frames  it  is  in 
advance  of  the  picture,  is  therefore  seen  to  be  greater  for  16-mm 
than  for  35-mm  films  -  the  'sound  lead'  for  35-mm  films  being 
only  20-frames  ahead  of  the  picture.  However,  since  the  height  of 
the  16-mm  frames  is  considerably  less  than  that  of  a  35-mm  frame, 
the  actual  lead,  in  linear  measure,  is  smaller  in  16-mm  films  than 
it  is  in  35-mm  films.  The  sound  lead  in  16-mm  films  is  approxi- 
mately 7-8-inches  (19-8-cms)  whereas  the  corresponding  lead  in 
35-mm  films  is  approximately  15-0-inches  (38-1  -cms). 

Light  Beam  Conductors 

By  far  the  majority  of  16-mm  sound  projectors  now  employ  the 
sound  scanning  system  in  which  the  track  is  scanned  as  it  is 
wrapped  around  the  speed  controlled  drum.  As  was  shown 
previously,  the  drum  must  be  relieved  over  the  area  below  the 
actual  track  to  enable  the  light  beam  to  pass  through  the  film. 
Since  the  diameter  of  all  sound  scanning  drums  is  usually  quite 
small,  some  means  of  bending  the  light  rays  must  be  employed  in 
order  to  direct  them  to  the  photo-cell.  This  point  is  illustrated  in 
Figure  168  where,  in  diagram  'A',  the  basic  requirements  of  a 
simple  sound  scanning  head  are  shown.  Light  from  the  exciter 
lamp  is  focused  by  a  suitable  optical  system  to  produce  an  image 
of  the  lamp  filament  at  the  plane  of  the  film  -  it  should  be  noted 
that  the  light  beam  does  not  come  to  a  point  in  the  horizontal 
direction  across  the  film  track.  Theoretically  it  is  then  only  necessary 
to  place  the  photo-cell  as  close  as  possible  to  the  sound  track  in 
order  to  collect  all  the  modulating  light  which  will  be  transmitted. 


394 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


b 


.    DIRECTION 

T  OF 

TRANSMITTED 


LIGHT   BEAM 

THROUGH 

FILM 


ELD 


Fig.  168. — Details  of  sound  track  scanning. 


However,  since  the  conventional  arrangement  of  the  basic 
principles  must  take  some  form  such  as  that  shown  in  diagram  'B* 
it  will  be  apparent  that  the  photo-cell  must  be  placed  some  distance 
from  the  scanning  point  and  not  in  a  direct  line  with  the  optical 
system.  It  should  be  noted  that,  in  diagram  'B',  the  light  beam  is 
focused  down  to  a  narrow  width  in  the  plane  parallel  to  the  film 
length  -  this  width  is  such  that  the  highest  frequencies  will  be 
easily  isolated  within  the  scanning  beam. 

The  plan  view  of  the  scanning  drum,  shown  in  diagram  'C, 
shows  the  direction  of  the  light  beam  as  it  passes  through  the 
film  and  clearly  indicates  that  the  beam  must  be  diverted  by  some 
optical  unit  before  it  can  be  directed  to  the  photo-cell.  Although 
it  is  possible  to  employ  a  series  of  mirrors  or  very  small  prisms  to 
control  the  light  beam,  such  arrangements  must  be  mounted  with 
great  rigidity  and  require  very  careful  adjustment  to  obtain 
maximum  light  output  to  the  photo-cell. 

The  modern  plastic  materials,  such  as  Perspex,  Lucite,  etc.,  have 
recently  been  used  with  much  success  to  direct  light  beams  to  any 
required  position.  These  materials  are  used  either  in  rectangular  or 
square  section  and  depend  upon  the  fact  that  all  the  light  which  is 
introduced  at  one  end  of  the  'rod'  suffers  total  internal  reflection 
and,  consequently,  a  very  high  percentage  of  the  total  light  must 
emerge  from  the  opposite  end  of  the  rod.  Both  ends  of  the  rod  are 
finished  'square'  with  the  main  body  of  the  material  and  are  easily 
polished  to  a  glass-smooth  surface.  These  plastics  may  be  readily 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  395 

bent  to  any  required  shape  in  boiling  water  and,  therefore,  a 
'pipe'  of  material  is  formed  to  follow  the  shortest  convenient  path 
from  the  scanning  point  to  the  photo-cell. 

If  a  photo-cell  is  placed  directly  behind  a  small  aperture  some 
known  distance  from  a  light  source  and,  in  this  position,  the  light 
transmission  is  considered  to  be  100  %,  the  introduction  of  a  parallel 
plate  of  Perspex,  0-375-inch  (9-252-mm)  in  thickness,  between  the 
aperture  and  the  photo-cell,  will  only  reduce  the  transmission  to 
90%.  If  a  similar  rod  of  Perspex  10-inches  (25-4-cms)  in  length  is 
placed  between  the  aperture  and  the  photo-cell,  the  transmission 
will  only  fall  to  65%.  When  this  same  10-inch  (25-4-cms)  rod 
is  then  bent  to  a  radius  of  1  •  0-inch  (25  •  4-mm),  and  is  so  turned 
through  a  right-angle  at  a  point  mid-way  along  its  length,  the 
transmission  is  reduced  from  65%  to  57-5%.  It  is  therefore 
possible  to  bend  a  rod  of  Perspex  or  similar  material  to  any  required 
shape  so  that  it  will  fit  around  the  shaft  and  bearings  which  support 
the  sound  scanning  drum.  Such  a  rod  may  then  be  introduced  into 
the  small  cavity  between  the  film  and  the  drum  support  and  at 
the  point  where  the  light  beam  passes  through  the  film. 

Since  the  final  transmission  through  such  a  bent  rod  will  increase 
as  the  length  of  the  rod  is  reduced,  the  number  of  bends  is  kept 
to  a  minimum  and  the  degree  of  bending  is  as  low  as  possible. 
The  light  beam  has  only  to  be  introduced  into  the  rod  to  ensure 
that  it  will  be  carried  to  the  photo-cell,  so  that  it  is  not  necessary 
for  the  rod  to  be  mounted  with  the  same  precision  as  would  be 
necessary  if  mirrors  or  prisms  were  used  for  this  purpose. 

General  Requirements 

In  concluding  this  short  description  of  the  main  features  in 
the  design  of  16-mm  sound  projection  mechanisms,  the  following 
points  are  collected  together  to  form  a  basis  of  the  more  general 
requirements  which  should  be  satisfied  by  all  such  instruments. 
(1)  The  mechanism  used  to  move  the  film  through  the  picture  gate 
should  perform  this  operation  at  a  rate  of  24-pictures  per  second 
and  to  within  0-75  %  of  this  speed  -  it  should  also  be  capable  of 
transporting  films  which  contain  two  consecutive  damaged  per- 
forations. (2)  All  sprocket  wheels,  rollers  and  guiding  shoes 
used  to  move  or  guide  the  film  through  the  entire  machine  should  be 
so  designed  that  neither  the  picture  or  sound  track  areas  of  the 
film  come  into  contact  with  stationary  parts  which  are  likely  to 
cause  scratching  after  they  become  worn.  (3)  Any  projector  should 
be  fitted  with  a  power  operated  film  rewinding  mechanism  capable 
of  rewinding  a  full   1,600-ft  (487-7-metres)  reel  of  film  within 


396  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

4  minutes.  (4)  A  mechanism  should  be  provided  to  enable  the  screen 
picture  to  be  accurately  framed  within  the  projecting  aperture  and 
without  moving  the  picture  with  relation  to  the  boundaries  of  the 
screen  when  such  adjustments  are  being  made.  (5)  The  projection 
lens  should  preferably  be  so  mounted  that  both  a  coarse  and 
fine  adjustment  is  provided  to  obtain  critically  sharp  image 
definition.  (6)  The  projection  lens  should  have  a  minimum  resolving 
power  of  90-lines  per  millimetre  in  the  centre  of  the  field  and  no 
less  than  40-lines  per  millimeter  at  the  four  corners  of  the  field. 
(7)  the  shutter  should  only  interrupt  the  light  beam  twice  during 
the  projection  of  each  frame  and  the  duration  of  the  light  and  dark 
periods  should  be  carefully  balanced.  (8)  the  diameter  of  the  shutter 
should  be  as  great  as  possible  and  the  aperture  should  be  as  far 
from  the  centre  of  the  shutter  as  possible.  (9)  The  screen  picture 
should  remain  substantially  free  from  unsteadiness  and,  when 
such  unsteadiness  can  be  traced  to  the  mechanism,  it  should 
not  exceed  0-3  %  of  the  picture  width.  (10)  Any  mechanism  should 
be  capable  of  projecting  a  new  film  -  the  perforation  pitch  being 
no  less  than  0-3  %  below  the  recommended  standard  -  for  at  least 
1,000  showings  without  causing  any  damage  sufficiently  serious 
either  to  show  on  the  screen  or  to  cause  defects  in  the  sound 
reproduction. 

Turning  now  to  the  requirements  of  sound  reproduction,  the 
following  points  should  be  carefully  checked  when  any  machine  is 
being  inspected.  (1)  The  mechanical  noise  created  by  the  projector 
gearing,  both  with  and  without  film  passing  through  the  machine, 
should  be  at  a  minimum  and,  preferably,  some  efficient  'blimp' 
should  be  provided  to  enclose  most  of  the  machine  during  opera- 
tion. (2)  The  film  should  travel  past  the  scanning  point  with  such 
uniformity  that  *wowing'  or  flutter  no  greater  than  0-35%  is 
produced  with  a  constant  frequency  sound  track  of  a  3,000  cycle 
signal.  (3)  The  sound  scanning  beam  should  measure  0-070-inches 
by  0-0005-inches  (1  -778-mm  by  0-0127-mm)  at  the  film  surface  or, 
if  a  track  magnifying  system  is  used,  proportional  measurements 
should  exist  at  the  scanning  aperture.  (4)  The  intensity  of  the 
scanning  beam  should  remain  uniform  throughout  the  scanning 
aperture.  (5)  The  film  should  run  past  the  scanning  point  with 
such  accuracy  that  lateral  movement  greater  than  plus  or  minus 
0-002-inch  (0-050-mm)  cannot  occur,  and  should  also  be  guided  so 
that  the  track  is  symmetrically  positioned  about  the  scanning 
aperture.  (6)  The  optical  system  used  to  form  the  scanning  slit  at 
the  film  surface  should  be  so  adjustable  that  critical  focus  may  be 
obtained  on  either  the  front  or  rear  surface  of  the  film.  (7)  The 


16-MM  SOUND-FILM  PROJECTION  397 

scanning  aperture  should  remain  truly  at  right  angles  to  the 
length  of  the  film  to  within  plus  or  minus  10  minutes  of  arc. 

The  foregoing  requirements  are  based  upon  standard  specifica- 
tion No.  Z.52. 1-1944,  issued  by  The  American  Standards  Associa- 
tion and,  although  they  are  in  no  way  representative  of  the  full 
requirements  laid  down  in  that  specification,  certainly  indicate  the 
high  degree  of  efficiency  expected  from  those  16-mm  sound  pro- 
jectors which  are  to  be  used  for  large  scale  work.  When  it  is  remem- 
bered that  1 6-mm  projectors  are  now  expected  to  pass  tests  which 
have  hitherto  only  been  applied  to  35-mm  apparatus,  it  is  not 
difficult  to  realise  the  important  position  which  16-mm  sound 
films  are  now  acknowledged  to  hold  within  the  cinematograph 
industry. 

Because  the  16-mm  equipment  has  assumed  by  far  the  greater 
importance  of  all  the  'narrow- gauge'  apparatus  available  and 
since,  in  principle,  both  9-5-mm  and  8-mm  equipments  are 
essentially  similar,  the  author  hopes  he  may  be  excused  for 
omitting  details  of  these  other  ranges  from  a  book  of  this  type. 


CHAPTER  14 

35-mm     FILMS    AND    THEIR    USES 


In  a  book  concerned  almost  exclusively  with  the  'mechanics'  of 
cinematography  it  should  not  be  surprising  that  little  attention 
has  been  paid  to  the  handling  and  operation  of  cameras  and 
films  under  practical  'user'  conditions.  At  the  same  time  it  is 
felt  to  be  desirable  to  include  short  references  to  the  main  types 
of  35-mm  films  available  at  the  moment  and  the  jobs  they  are 
intended  to  do.  The  following  lists  have  therefore  been  compiled  for 
this  purpose  and  they  consist  entirely  of  information  supplied  by  the 
Companies  concerned.  Where  the  information  has  been  available 
these  lists  also  include  the  recommended  processing  formulae. 

DUPONT  MOTION  PICTURE  FILMS 

(Culled  from  The  Dupont  Technical  Data  Bulletin). 

NEGATIVE  STOCKS 

Type  104.  Dupont  Superior- 1.  Panchromatic.  For  general  exterior 
and  process  background  with  good  lighting.  Has  extremely  fine  grain, 
normal  contrast  and  wide  latitude.  Gives  excellent  renderings  of  foliage 
greens. 

Recommended  Gamma:  0-65 

Development  Time:  7-minutes  in  ND-1  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  70  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Total    darkness   recommended    but 

Wratten  Series  3  where  absolutely 
necessary. 

Type  126.  Dupont  Superior-2.   Panchromatic.   General  studio  interior 
work  and  may  be  used  on  both  interiors  and  exteriors.  Fine  grain  and 
high  speed  to  satisfy  very  low  key  lighting.  Wide  latitude  and  good 
flesh  tone  renderings. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-65 

Development  Time:  8-minutesinND-l  at68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  70  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Total    darkness   recommended    but 

Wratten  series  3  where  absolutely 

necessary. 

398 


35-MM  FILMS   AND   THEIR   USES  399 

DUPONT  NEGATIVE  STOCKS— continued 

Type   127.    Dupont    Superior-3.    Panchromatic.    High    sensitivity    for 
interior  and  exterior  work  under  poor  lighting  conditions. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-70 

Development  Time:  11-minutes  in  ND-1  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  60  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Total   darkness   recommended    but 

Wratten  series  3  where  absolutely 

necessary. 

Type  105.  Dupont  Infra  D.  Used  with  red  filter  to  obtain  night  effects 
in  daylight  and  to  cut  aerial  haze. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-70 

Development  Time:  7-minutes  in  ND-1  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  Not  stated. 

Safelight:  Total  darkness  or  Wratten  series  3 

where  absolutely  necessary. 

Type    108.   Dupont  Fine   Grain  Panchromatic  Duplicating  Negative. 
High  resolution  and  anti-halation  base. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-65  (contact  printing) 

0-55  (projection  printing). 
Development  Time:  6-minutes  in  ND-1  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  160  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Panchromatic  Series  3. 

MASTER  POSITIVE  EMULSIONS 

Type  217.  Dupont  Lavender  Master  Positive. 
Recommended  Gamma:  1-70 

Development  Time:  3-5-minutes  in  PD-3  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  80  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Series  OA. 

Type  228.  Dupont  Fine  Grain  Master  Positive. 
Recommmended  Gamma:  1-45 

Development  Time:  3-minutes  in  PD-3  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  100  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Series  OA. 

SOUND  RECORDING  STOCKS 

Type  201  Dupont  Sound  Recording.  For  use  with  Variable  Area 
recording  and  may  be  used  for  Variable  Density  if  its  high  speed  is  a 
requirement,  i.e.  the  recorder  exposure  source  is  of  relatively  low  intensity. 
Recommended  Gamma  with  3  00  plus  or  to  an  unmodulated 
Variable  Area:  density  of  1-8-20. 

Development  Time:  5-minutes  in  PD-3  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  80  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Series  OA. 

Recommended  Gamma  with         0  •  55  for  Ultra  Violet  printing  or 
Variable  Density:  0-40  for  White  Light  printing. 

Development  Time:  4-minutes  in  ND-4  at  68°F. 


400 


PRINCIPLES   OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 


DUPONT  SOUND  RECORDING  STOCKS— continued 

Type  226.  Dupont  Fine  Grain  Sound  Recording.  For  both  Variable  Density 

and  Variable  Area  recordings.  With  V.D.  it  has  a  high  signal-to-noise 

ratio.  With  V.D.  white  light  recording  it  gives  low  fog  level  and  latent 

image  stability. 

Recommended  Gamma:  0-85  (for  V.D.  recording  and  print- 

ing onto  type  225  with  U.V.  or  onto 
type  232  with  white  light). 

Development  Time:  6-minutes  in  ND-4  at  66°F. 

Recommended  Gamma:  3-50  plus  for  Variable  Area. 

Resolving  Power:  100  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  OA. 

Type  232.  Dupont  Fine  Grain  Sound  Positive.  For  white  light  printing 
from  high  gamma  Variable  Density  negatives. 
Recommended  Gamma:  1-50  (recommended  print  density: 

0-60). 
Development  Time:  2  •  75-minutes  in  PD-3  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  100  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Series  OA. 


RELEASE  POSITIVE  STOCKS 

Type  213.  Dupont  Release  Positive. 
Recommended  Gamma: 
Development  Time: 
Resolving  Power: 
Safelight: 


210 

3-minutes  in  PD-3  at  68°F. 

80  lines  per  mm. 

Series  OA. 


Type  225.  Dupont  Fine  Grain  Release  Positive. 
Recommended  Gamma:  2-40 

Development  Time:  2 -75-minutes  in  PD-3  at  68°F. 

Resolving  Power:  100  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Series  OA. 


PROCESSING  FORMULAE 

Negative  Developer  Formula 

Water 

Rhodol  (Metol  or  Elon) 

Sodium  Sulfite,  Anhyd: 

Hydroquinone 

Borax 

Potassium  Bromide 

Total  Volume 


'ND-1  » 
975  0  c.c.s 


0 
90 
1 
3 
0 
1 


8  grams 
0  grams 
0  grams 

0  grams 

1  grams 
0  litre 


Low-Contrast  Developer  ■  ND-4  ' 


Water 

Rhodol  (Metol  or  Elon) 

Sodium  Sulfite,  Anhyd: 

Hydroquinone 

Borax 

Citric  Acid 

Total  Volume 


975  0  c.c.s. 
0-40  grams 
50  00  grams 
2-25  grams 
1  •  25  grams 
0-40  grams 
1  00  litre 


125  fl.  ozs. 

47  grains 

12  ozs. 

58  grains. 

174  grains. 

6  grains. 

1  gallon. 

125  fl.  ozs. 
23  grains 

6  ozs.    290  grains 

131  grains 

73  grains 

23  grains 

1  gallon 


35-MM   FILMS   AND   THEIR   USES 

DUPONT  PROCESSING  FORMULAE— continued 

Positive  Developer  *  PD-1  ■  (Rapid  Acting  Contrasty  Developer) 


401 


Water                                      975-0  c.c.s. 

125  fl.  ozs. 

Rhodol  (Metol  or  Elon)             1  -4  grams 

82  grains 

Sodium  Sulfite,  Anhyd :             60  •  0  grams 

8  ozs. 

Hydroquinone                            6  •  2  grams 

365  grains 

Sod    Carbonate     Monohyd- 

rated                                     56  0  grams 

7  •  5  ozs. 

Potassium  Bromide                    1  •  8  grams 

112  0  grains 

Total  Volume                             10  litre 

1  •  0  gallon. 

ositive  Developer  *  PD-3  ■  (Normal  activity, 

general  purpose) 

Rhodol  (Metol  or  Elon)             0-5  grams 

29  grains 

Sodium  Sulfite  Anhyd :             40  •  0  grams 

5  ozs.     150  grains 

Hydroquinone                             5  •  0  grams 

292  grains 

Sod     Carbonate     Monohyd- 

rated                                     12  0  grams 

1  oz.    263  grains 

Water  to                                      1-0  litre 

1  gallon. 

EASTMAN   MOTION   PICTURE   FILMS 

MANUFACTURED    BY  KODAK    LIMITED 

(The  following  data  is  given  by  courtesy  of  the  Technical  Service, 
Motion  Picture  Film  Dept.,  Kodak  Limited.) 

PICTURE  NEGATIVE  STOCKS:— 

Code  5230.  Background  X.  (Panchromatic).  A  very  fine  grain,  medium 
speed   negative   material,   particularly   suitable   for   general   exterior 
photography.  Background  X  for  exterior  scenes  and  Plus  X  for  interior 
scenes  forms  an  ideal  combination  for  production  work. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-60  to  0-70 

Development  Time:  9  0-minutes   for   Gamma   0-62   in 

Kodak  D-76  at  65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  60  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  Series  3. 

Code  5231.  Plus  X.  A  high-speed,  fine  grain  material,  well  suited  to 
general  interior  photography  and  to  exterior  photography  under  poor 
lighting  conditions.  This  film  represents  an  excellent  balance  between 
the  maximum  desirable  speed  for  most  purposes  and  the  finest  grain 
obtainable  at  that  speed.  Plus  X  is  widely  used  for  general  production 
work,  having  been  used  on  all  British  productions  for  some  years,  and 
it  is  also  most  suitable  for  making  composite  projection  background 
scenes,  since  its  speed  is  sufficient  to  permit  the  use  of  small  apertures 
in  order  to  secure  good  depth  of  field. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-60  to  0-70 

Development  Time:  9  0  minutes  for  Gamma  0-65  in 

Kodak  D-76  at  65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  55  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Total  darkness  preferred,  otherwise 

Wratten  Series  3. 

26 


402  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

EASTMAN  PICTURE  NEGATIVE  STOCKS— continued 

Code  5282.   Super  XX.  (Panchromatic).  A  very  high-speed  negative 

material,  designed  to  produce  maximum  emulsion  speed  consistent  with 

good  photographic  quality.  It  is  particularly  suited  to  newsreel  work, 

where  important  news  events  must  often  be  covered  under  extremely 

poor  lighting  conditions. 

Recommended  Gamma:  0-65  to  0-70 

Development  Time:  10-minutes    for    Gamma    0-65    in 

Kodak  D-76  at  65°F. 

Resolving  Power:  55  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Total  darkness  preferred  otherwise 

Wratten  series  3. 

Code  5210.   Extra  Rapid  Infra-Red  Sensitive.  This  film,  which  is  made 
to  special  order  only,  in  minimum  quantities  of  25,000-ft.,  is  extremely 
fast,  is  sensitive  to  blue  and  red,  and  has  exceptionally  high  sensitivity 
in  the  infra-red  from  6600  A.U.  to  8600  A.U.  There  are  many  special 
purposes  for  which  it  can  be  used,  amongst  which  is  the  reproduction  of 
distant  detail  ordinarily  obscured  by  atmospheric  haze,  and  the  pro- 
duction of  night  effects  in  sunlight. 
Recommended  Control  Gamma:  0-65  in  D-76 
Note:  This  infra-red  sensitive  film  has  a  very  high  rate  of  development 
and  should  not  normally  be  developed  beyond  the  control  gamma  of 
0-65,  otherwise  difficulties  with  graininess  may  be  experienced. 
Safelight:  Total  darkness  preferred  but  a  series 

9  safelight  may  be  used  when  develop- 
ment is  half  completed. 

RELEASE  POSITIVE  STOCKS 

Code  5301.  Alow  speed  positive  type  emulsion  useful  for  release  prints, 
variable  density  sound  recording,  negative  and  positive  titles,  dubbing 
prints  for  sound  and  other  purposes. 

Recommended  Gamma:  2- 10  to  2-20  (for  release  prints) 

Development  Time:  5-5-minutes    for   Gamma  2-22    in 

KodakD-16at65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  55  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  series  O  (Orange)  or  OA 

(Olive). 
Code  5302.  An  extremely  fine  grain  release  positive  material  of  approxi- 
mately one-fifth  the  speed  of  regular  release  positive,  Code  5301,  which 
it  has  largely  replaced.  Because  of  its  fine  grain,  high  resolving  power 
and  image  sharpness,  it  produces  prints  of  excellent  definition  and 
general  quality,  particularly  when  used  in  conjunction  with  the  fine 
grain  duplicating  materials.  5302  is  also  useful  for  sound  recording, 
negative  or  positive  titles,  dubbing  prints  for  sound  and  other  purposes. 
Used  for  release  positive  printing,  a  considerable  improvement  in 
sound  reproduction  is  obtained. 
Recommended  Gamma:  2-30  to  2-60 

Development  Time:  3  0-minutes   for   Gamma    2-60   in 

Kodak  D-16  at  65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  90  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  series  O  (Orange)  or  OA 

(Olive). 


35-MM  FILMS  AND   THEIR  USES  403 

EASTMAN  DUPLICATING  POSITIVE  STOCK 

Code  5365.  A  slow,  yellow  dyed  master  positive  material  of  extremely 
low  graininess  and  exceptionally  high  resolving  power,  intended  as  a 
companion  film  to  Fine  Grain  Panchromatic  Duplicating  Negative, 
code  1203.  The  use  of  these  two  films  together  results  in  duplicates 
distinguishable  from  the  originals  only  by  skilled  observers.  Special 
exposure  conditions  are  necessitated  by  the  low  speed  of  5365,  but  they 
are  fully  justified  by  the  quality  obtainable. 
Recommended  Gamma:  1-20  to  1-60 

Development  Time:  9  0-minutes   for   Gamma    1  *  35    in 

Kodak  D-76  at  65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  150  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  series  O  or  OA. 

DUPLICATING  NEGATIVE  STOCK 

Code  5203.  Fine  Grain  Panchromatic  Duplicating  Negative.  A  low 
speed  material  of  extremely  fine  grain  and  high  resolving  power,  coated 
on  the  same  type  of  grey  base  as  used  for  picture  negative  materials 
(Plus  X,  Background  X,  Super  XX).  Used  as  a  companion  film  to  Fine 
Grain  Duplicating  Positive,  Code  1365,  it  produces  negatives  similar  in 
tone  rendering  and  printing  detail  to  the  original  negative.  This  film  is 
panchromised  to  give  it  increased  speed. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-60  to  0-70 

Development  Time:  5-5-minutes    for  Gamma   0-62    in 

Kodak  D-76  at  65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  110  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  series  3  (Kodapan). 

SOUND  RECORDING  STOCKS 

Code  5301.  A  low-speed  positive  type  material  used  in  variable-density 
recording  systems,  such  as  Western  Electric,  where  the  negative  sound 
track  is  developed  to  a  low  gamma  (0  •  35  to  0  •  60).  It  may  also  be  used 
for  variable-area  recording,  but  for  this  purpose  Code  5398  film  is 
preferable. 
Recommended  Gamma :  0  •  35  to  0  •  60  (for  V.D.) 

2  0  to  2-50  (for  V.A.) 
Development  Time:  6  0-minutes   for   Gamma   0-49   in 

Kodak  D-76  (modified)  at  65°F. 
Safelight:  Wratten  series  O  or  OA. 

Resolving  Power:  55  lines  per  mm. 

Code   5398.  A   film  having  higher  photographic  speed  than  Sound 
Recording  Code  5301,  it  provides  maximum  speed  consistent  with  other 
requirements  for  variable-area  recording.  In  this  connection,  5398  may 
be  used  either  with  white  light  or  ultra-violet  exposure. 
Recommended  Gamma:  2-50  to  3-00 

Development  Time:  9-0-minutes  for  Gamma  2-70 

inKodakD-16at65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  50  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  series  O  or  OA. 


404 


PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


EASTMAN  SOUND  RECORDING  STOCKS— continued 

Code  5372.  Fine  Grain  Sound  Recording.  This  film  is  especially  designed 
for  variable-area  recording  equipment.  It  is  unsuitable  for  variable- 
density  recording.  This  new  film  extends  the  frequency  range  beyond 
that  which  can  be  obtained  on  other  sound  recording  films.  The 
material  may  be  used  as  a  negative  by  exposing  to  obtain  a  high  density 
of  the  order  of  2  •  10  to  2  •  50,  for  printing  on  Fine  Grain  Release  Positive 
Code  5302.  It  can  also  be  used  with  excellent  results  as  direct  playback 
positive  because  of  the  low  image  distortion  when  the  density  produced 
by  exposure  in  the  recorder  is  in  the  range  of  1  0  to  1  -2. 
Recommended  Gamma:  2-90  to  3-30 

Development  Time:  12  0-minutes  for  Gamma  3  14  in 

Kodak  D-16  at  65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  150  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  series  O  or  OA. 

Code   5373.   A  fine   grain   variable-density   sound   recording   film  of 
improved  recording  characteristics.  It  can  be  developed  to  a  low  gamma 
value  (e.g.  0  •  50)  in  a  normal  picture  negative  developer  without  requiring 
short  development  times. 
Recommended  Gamma :  0  •  40  to  0  •  60. 

Development  Time:  7  0-minutes   for   Gamma   0-55    in 

Kodak  SD-21  at  65°F. 
Resolving  Power:  90  lines  per  mm. 

Safelight:  Wratten  series  O  or  OA. 


KODAK  PROCESSING  FORMULAE 
Kodak  Formula  D-76 

'Elon'. 

Hydroquinone 

Sod.  Sulfite  (anhydrous) 

Borax 

Water  to  make 


Kodak  Formula  D-16 

'Elon' 

Sod.  Sulphite  (anhyd) 

Hydroquinone 

Sod.  Carbonate  (anhyd) 

Potassium  Bromide 

Citric  Acid 

Pot.  Metabisulphite 

Water  to  make 

Kodak  Fixer  Formula  F-25 

Sodium  Thiosulphate 
Sodium  Sulphite  (anhy) 
Glacial  Acetic  Acid 
Boric  Acid  (cryst) 
Potassium  Alum 
Water  to  make 


2  •  0  grams 

5  •  0  grams 
1 00  0  grams 

2  0  grams 
10  litre 

0-31  grams 
39-60  grams 

6  0  grams 
18-7  grams 

0-86  grams 
0-68  grams 
1  •  5  grams 
1-0  litre 

300-0  grams 
5  •  0  grams 

10  0  c.c.s 
5  0  grams 

10  0  grams 
10  litre 


35-MM  FILMS  AND   THEIR  USES  405 

GEVAERT  MOTION  PICTURE  FILMS 

(The  following  data  is  given  by  courtesy  of  The  Cine  Department,  Gevaert 
Limited). 

NEGATIVE  STOCKS:— 

Panchromosa  Type  47.  Good  density  curve  and  overall  speed,  fine  grain 

and  well  balanced  colour  sensitivity,  recommended  for  all  interior  and 

exterior  'shots'  even  with  subdued  light. 

Recommended  Gamma:  0-65 

Development  Time:  10-minutes  in  G.206  at  65°F. 

Safelight:  Preferably  none,  but  during  2nd  half 

of  development  Gevaert  K-535  or 
Wratten  Series  3  may  be  used. 

Panchromosa   Special.  An  emulsion  with  ultra  fine  grain,  brilliant 

gradation,  possessing  about  half  the  speed  of  Panchromosa  type  47. 

This  is  recommended  for  landscape  and  for  negatives  for  background 

projection  prints. 

Recommended  Gamma:  0-65 

Development  Time:  10-minutes  in  G.206  at  65°F. 

Safelight:  Preferably  none,  but  during  2nd  half 

of  development  Gevaert  K-535  or 
Wratten  Series  3  may  be  used. 

Panchromosa  Hyper  Rapid.  A  panchromatic  emulsion  of  very  high 
speed  for  newsreels  and  all  scenes  where  the  light  is  indifferent.  One  can 
however  use  this  emulsion  under  normal  lighting  and  with  quite  a  small 
aperture  if  increased  depth  of  focus  is  necessary. 
Recommended  Gamma:  0-65. 

Development  Time:  12-minutes  in  G.206  at  65°F. 

Safelight:  As  for  type  47. 

CINE  POSITIVE  STOCKS 

Normal  PosmvE.   A  positive  film  designed  principally  for  printing 
release  prints.  Equally  suitable  for  other  purposes,  such  as  titling 
(positive  or  negative). 
Recommended  Gamma:  2-25 

Development  Time:  5-minutes  in  G.203  at  65°F. 

Safelight:  Gevaert  L.151  or  Wratten  Series  O 

PosmvE  Fine  Grain.  A  positive  film  with  extremely  fine  grain,  in- 
tended principally  for  printing  high-quality  release  copies. 
Recommended  Gamma:  2-45 

Development  Time:  5-minutes  in  G.203  at  65°F. 

Safelight:  Gevaert  L.151  or  .Wratten  Series  O. 

PosmvE  Super  Contrast.  A  positive  film  of  high  contrast,  yielding 
vigorous  blacks  and  good  transparent  whites,  designed  for  titling  and 
similar  work  requiring  a  very  contrasty  emulsion. 
Recommended  Gamma:  3-50. 

Development  Time:  5-minutes  in  G.203  at  65°F. 

Safelight:  Gevaert  L.151  or  Wratten  Series  O. 


406  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

ILFORD  35-mm  FINE  GRAIN  RELEASE  POSITIVE 
FILM,  5BW 

(The  following  data  is  given  by  courtesy  of  the  Technical  Service. 
Department,  Ilford  Ltd.) 

Ilford  Fine  Grain  Release  Positive,  type  5BW,  is  a  slow,  high  contrast, 
very  fine  grain,  non-colour  sensitive  emulsion  for  making  prints  from 
35-mm  cine  negatives. 

Gamma  Values:  1-5     1-9    2-2    2-35  2-50 

Development  Times :  20    40    60    80    100  minutes. 

Development:  Ilford  Cine  Positive  Developer  at 

65°F.  with  vigorous  agitation. 
Safelight:  Ilford  No.  902. 

CINE  POSITIVE  DEVELOPER  FORMULA 


Metol 

48  grains. 

Hydroquinone 

288  grains 

Sodium  Sulphite  (cryst) 

3-25  ozs. 

Sodium  Carbonate  (cryst) 

6  •  50  ozs. 

Potassium  Bromide 

48  grains. 

Water  to  make 

1  gallon. 

ILFORD  PANCHROMATIC  NEGATIVE  35-mm  FILM  "SERIES  3" 

This  is  a  very  fast  fine-grain  panchromatic  film  intended  for  general 
professional  cinematography.  It  has  a  Weston  speed  rating  of  125  to 
daylight  and  100  to  tungsten  fight.  The  recommended  2b  control 
gamma  of  between  0  •  6  and  0  •  7  can  be  reached  in  approximately  1 1 
minutes  with  solutions  as  specified  by  the  manufacturers. 

Authors'  Notes: 

The  foregoing  data  only  consist  of  the  basic  details  of  each  film;  complete 
specifications  of  those  available  in  England  may  be  obtained  on  applica- 
tion to  the  Technical  Service  Departments  of  Messrs.  Kodak,  Gevaert 
or  Ilford  Ltd.  respectively. 


CHAPTER  15 

16-ram    FILMS    AND    THEIR    USES 


The  popularity  of  1 6-mm  cinematography  and  the  many  applica- 
tions to  which  it  has  been  put  since  its  introduction  have  been 
largely  due  to  the  characteristics  of  certain  film  emulsions.  Such 
films  were  introduced  in  1923  and  formed  the  foundation  upon 
which  the  Industry  has  been  built  and  by  which  it  has  since  grown  to 
its  present  state  of  development.  The  requirements  which  had  to  be 
satisfied  before  any  such  process  could  be  employed  by  others 
than  those  directly  connected  with  professional  film  production 
may  be  briefly  stated  as  follows:  -(1)  The  film  support  should  be 
on  no  account  of  the  'nitrate  base'  type  or  have  any  of  the  inflam- 
mable characteristics  of  such  supports.  (2)  The  cost  of  the  film 
should  be  reduced  to  a  minimum.  (3)  Since  the  majority  of  users 
would  only  require  one  copy  of  their  films  it  should  be  possible  to 
supply  this  without  employing  the  conventional  negative  and 
positive  independent  film  lengths.  (4)  The  operations  to  be  carried 
out  by  the  user  should  be  very  limited  and,  preferably,  should  not 
be  more  than  that  of  exposing  the  film  in  the  camera. 

Acetate  Film  Base 

The  film  base  used  to  produce  sensitive  materials  for  16-mm 
work  is  always  of  the  'acetate'  or  so  called  'safety'  type.  Film  base 
is  made  by  treating  cotton  linters  either  with  nitric  or  acetic  acid. 
Cotton  linters  are  the  small  particles  of  the  cotton  seed  which  are 
left  after  the  bulk  of  the  seed  has  been  used  to  make  cloth  or  thread. 
After  washing  and  bleaching  these  linters  have  the  appearance  of 
very  fine  powder  and,  by  treatment  with  acids,  may  be  converted 
into  nitrocellulose.  Since  nitrocellulose  is  extremely  inflamable  it 
must  then  be  dried  by  chemical  dehydration  and,  after  being 
dissolved  and  made  plastic,  can  then  be  rolled  into  sheets  of  trans- 
parent film  base  of  a  suitable  thickness  to  form  a  support  for 
the  sensitive  emulsion.  The  basis  of  standard  motion  picture  film 
is  therefore  nitrocellulose  but,  by  treating  the  cotton  with  very 

407 


408  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

concentrated  acetic  acid  instead  of  nitric  acid,  a  material  known  as 
cellulose  acetate  is  obtained.  This  material  is  relatively  difficult 
to  ignite  and,  if  wound  in  roll  form,  will  quickly  become  ex- 
tinguished or  merely  smoulder  rather  like  burning  rags. 

Reversal  Stocks 

The  remaining  requirements  which  must  be  met  by  a  film  suitable 
for  amateurs  were  all  satisfied  by  the  introduction  of  the  so-called 
'reversal'  emulsions.  A  reversal  emulsion  is  one  which,  after  the 
normal  exposure  in  the  camera,  can  be  so  treated  during  the 
processing  operations  that  a  positive  image  is  finally  obtained 
instead  of  the  normal  negative  -  this  positive  image  being  on  the 
identical  film  support  which  was  used  in  the  camera. 

In  the  normal  black-and-white  reversal  process  the  film  is  first 
developed  to  a  negative  in  the  usual  manner  but  is  then  passed 
through  a  bleaching  solution  so  designed  that  it  is  only  capable  of 
dissolving  that  silver  which  was  previously  developed  -  the  bleach- 
ing solution  does  not  attack  the  undeveloped  silver  halide  which, 
since  it  did  not  receive  any  exposure  in  the  camera,  could  not  be 
reduced  to  metallic  silver  by  the  developer.  On  leaving  the  bleaching 
solution  the  film  will  only  carry  unexposed  silver  bromide  grains 
plus  some  of  the  solution  itself  and  must,  therefore,  be  thoroughly 
washed  until  all  traces  of  the  bleach  are  removed. 

The  silver  bromide  which  remains  is  then  exposed  to  white  light 
and  the  film  is  passed  through  a  second  developing  solution  which, 
of  course,  produces  an  image  complimentary  to  that  originally 
obtained  in  the  first  developer,  that  is,  it  produces  a  positive 
image.  The  stages  of  reversal  processing  are  more  clearly  seen  from 
Figure  169  which  shows  cross-sectional  views  of  an  emulsion  as  it 
would  appear  at  each  stage  of  the  process.  Diagram  'A'  represents 
an  original  subject  which  has  been  photographed  and  which 
consists  of  alternate  rectangular  areas  of  black  and  white  material. 
Diagram  'B'  indicates  the  condition  of  the  film  used  to  photograph 
this  subject  after  it  has  passed  through  the  first  developing  solution. 
Those  small  areas  in  the  emulsion  which  become  opaque  corres- 
pond with  similar  small  areas  of  white  material  in  the  original 
subject,  whilst  those  areas  of  the  subject  which  are  black  have  had 
no  effect  upon  corresponding  areas  of  the  emulsion  which, 
therefore,  remain  as  unaltered  silver  bromide  grains. 

The  film  is  then  passed  through  a  bleaching  solution  which  will 
dissolve  all  the  metallic  silver  corresponding  to  those  sections  of 
the  emulsion  which  received  exposure  and  became  developed.  The 
condition  of  the  film  as  it  passes  from  the  bleaching  bath  is  seen 


16-MM  FILMS  AND   THEIR  USES  409 

from  Diagram  'C  to  consist  of  areas  of  unaltered  silver  bromide 
grains,  corresponding  to  the  black  rectangles  in  the  original 
subject,  interlaced  with  areas  of  transparent  film  base,  correspond- 
ing to  the  white  rectangles  in  the  original  subject.  Once  the  bleaching 
solution  has  been  thoroughly  removed  it  will  be  obvious  that  areas 
'4\  '5'  and  '6'  will  correspond  exactly  with  areas'  1 ',  '2'  and  '3'  in  the 
original  subject.  The  film  is  then  given  a  second  exposure  so  that  the 
silver  bromide  grains,  which  remain  may  then  be  reduced  in  a  second 
developing  solution  and  so  produce  the  final  result  as  shown  in 
Diagram  'D\  The  film  is  then  fixed  and  washed  in  the  usual  manner. 
As  is  well  known,  the  final  appearance  of  a  metallic  silver 
image,  and  particularly  the  granularity  of  the  image,  is  related  to 
the  size  and  the  distribution  of  the  individual  silver  grains.  The 
larger  the  grains  are  or  the  more  concentrated  their  distribution 
becomes  the  more  easily  will  they  react  to  the  developing  solution. 
Because  of  this  the  first  grains  which  become  fully  developed  are 
those  larger  ones  which  are  more  likely  to  cause  the  graininess 
appearance  of  the  image.  However,  when  the  film  is  developed  to  a 
positive  by  the  reversal  process,  the  large  and  highly  sensitive 
grains  are  all  developed  up  in  the  first  exposure  and  are 
subsequently  dissolved  away  in  the  bleaching  process.  The  resultant 
pictures  are  therefore  composed  of  the  smaller  less  sensitive  grains 
and,  in  consequence,  do  not  appear  to  have  such  a  grainy  structure 


DO 


- 

'■','■' 

.::■■ 

ORIGINAL    SUBJECT 

FILM   AFTER  Ist 
DEVELOPMENT 

H- DEVELOPED   METALLIC    SILVER 
U  -  UNDEVELOPED    SILVER  BROMIDF 

FILM  AFTER   BLEACH 


an 
on 
on 


FILM    AFTER  2nd 
DEVELOPMENT 


FIXATION 


WASHED  &  DRIED   FILM 


Fig.  169. — The  stages  of  reversal  processing. 


410  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

as  might  be  the  case  if  the  normal  negative  and  positive  methods 
were  employed. 

It  must  be  realised  that  the  foregoing  argument  is  only  true 
to  a  certain  extent  -  particularly  over  those  areas  where  exposure 
has  taken  place.  If  a  small  section  of  the  picture  remains  unexposed 
during  the  original  photography  neither  the  large  or  small  grains 
would  be  removed  during  the  bleaching  process  and,  therefore, 
the  large  grains  would  still  be  present  during  the  second  exposure 
and  would  be  the  first  to  develop  up  in  the  second  development. 
However,  the  possibility  of  one  section  remaining  without  any 
exposure  whatsoever  is  exceptionally  remote  unless  a  jet  black 
object  is  being  photographed  and,  therefore,  in  general  the 
resultant  positive  images  obtained  by  the  reversal  process  are 
not  likely  to  appear  as  grainy  as  would  similar  pictures  produced 
by  the  normal  studio  processes. 

It  is  very  important  to  realise  that  the  amount  of  silver  which 
is  available  to  form  the  positive  image  is  dependent  upon  the 
amount  which  is  left  after  the  original  camera  exposure  has  been 
bleached  away.  For  example,  if  the  original  camera  exposure 
is  very  slight  only  a  small  proportion  of  the  total  number  of  grains 
will  be  developed  in  the  first  developer  and  a  large  number  of 
grains  will  still  remain  after  the  bleaching  operation.  Because 
of  this  it  is  necessary  that  the  second  exposure  shall  also  be 
relatively  slight.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  original  camera  exposure 
had  been  considerably  heavier  and,  after  the  bleaching  operation, 
only  a  few  grains  remains  to  be  exposed  during  the  second  exposure, 
this  second  exposure  must  then  be  relatively  heavy  in  order  to 
produce  a  reasonable  density  in  the  final  print  and  so  to  compen- 
sate for  the  over-exposure  which  orginally  occurred  in  the  camera. 

If  users  of  reversal  film  could  be  relied  upon  always  to  expose 
the  film  to  the  optimum  degree  it  would  be  possible  to  employ  a 
second  exposure  of  a  constant  amount  and  still  to  obtain  satis- 
factory print  quality  at  all  times.  However,  if  a  system  can  be 
used  by  which  the  second  exposure  is  adjusted  in  accordance  with 
the  degree  of  exposure  given  in  the  camera,  it  will  then  be  possible 
to  apply  a  considerable  degree  of  correction  to  many  films  which 
would  otherwise  be  badly  over  or  under  exposed.  Such  a  control 
can  be  obtained  by  scanning  the  film  after  it  has  been  bleached 
and  before  the  second  exposure.  One  system  is  to  run  the  film 
between  a  source  of  red  light  and  a  thermopile  onto  which  the 
beam  of  light  is  directed.  The  amount  of  light  which  reaches 
the  thermopile  will  then  be  controlled  by  the  transmission  of  the 
film  itself.  The  heating  effect  caused  by  the  red  light  creates  a 


16-MM  FILMS  AND   THEIR  USES  411 

current  in  the  thermopile  which  may  then  be  used  to  operate  a 
galvanometer.  A  vane,  rather  like  a  shutter  blade,  is  then  attached 
to  the  galvanometer  so  that  the  quantity  of  light  passing  to  the 
film  during  the  second  exposure  is  adjusted  by  the  vane  which,  in 
turn,  is  positioned  by  the  current  created  in  the  thermopile.  The 
second  exposure  is  therefore  dependent  upon  the  degree  of  exposure 
given  in  the  camera  when  the  film  was  originally  shot. 

It  has  been  stated  that  black-and-white  reversal  film  is 
primarily  intended  for  use  when  only  one  positive  film  is  required. 
However,  it  is  quite  possible  for  many  duplicate  copies  to  be 
obtained  by  running  the  original  reversed  film  through  a  printing 
machine  and  in  contact  with  a  second  length  of  'duplicating 
reversal  stock'.  The  film  used  to  produce  these  successive  copies  is 
usually  a  fine-grain  emulsion  which  is  afterwards  reversed  in  the 
normal  manner. 

Typical  16-mm  reversal  emulsions  are  the  Cine-Kodak  Super  X 
and  Cine  Kodak  Super  XX  types.  In  both  cases  the  emulsions  are 
panchromatic;  the  Super  X  film  has  a  Weston  speed  rating  of  20 
and  the  Super  XX  has  a  Weston  speed  rating  of  48.  Both  emulsions 
are  available  in  either  50  or  100-ft  rolls,  but  Super  X  can  also  be 
obtained  with  perforations  along  one  side  only  (for  sound  record- 
ing on  16-mm)  and  can  also  be  obtained  in  lengths  of  400-ft. 

Negative  and  Positive  Emulsions 

In  recent  years  it  has  become  apparent  that  many  16-mm  cinema- 
tographers  require  to  produce  films  by  the  normal  negative-positive 
systems  used  in  professional  35-mm  studios.  Because  of  this 
several  manufacturers  now  market  suitable  emulsions  to  meet 
these  needs  and,  in  general,  they  are  similar  to  those  supplied 
in  the  35-mm  width  although,  of  course,  they  are  all  coated  on 
acetate  or  so  called  'safety'  base.  Typical  examples  of  these  materials 
are  listed  below:  - 

Gevaert  Limited.  This  Company  market  Tanchromosa  Special',  and 
'Panchromosa  Hyper  Rapid'  both  as  normal  16-mm  negative  film  stocks. 
Gevaert  Normal  Positive,  Fine  Grain  Positive  and  also  Positive  Super 
Contrast  materials  are  all  available  in  16-mm  width.  The  specification 
of  these  emulsions  is  identical  with  those  of  the  35-mm  range,  and  has 
already  been  given  in  Chapter  15. 

Ilford  Limited.  Ilford  Pan  FA6-mm  negative.  This  is  a  fine-grain 
medium  speed  material  and,  when  used  for  exterior  work,  prints  can 
be  made  on  Fine  Grain  Positive  Stock  which  are  comparable  in  grain 
with  that  generally  associated  in  the  past  with  the  reversal  process. 
The  speed  of  this  material  has  been  adjusted  at  a  level  which  will 
permit  the  convenient  stop  settings  of  most  cameras  to  suit  normal 
outdoor  subjects  and  lighting  conditions.  Full  advantage  has  been  taken 


412  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

of  the  required  slower  speed  of  Pan  F  to  obtain  the  maximum  reduction 
in  grain  size  and  increase  in  resolving  power  in  this  new  material.  Pan  F 
negative  film  is  coated  on  grey  anti-halation  safety  base  and  is  supplied 
in  the  usual  100-ft  and  50-ft  daylight  loading  spools.  The  material  is 
rated  at  25°  Sch.,  16  Weston  or  Ilford  Speed  Group  D.  It  is  not  intended 
for  interior  cinematography  or  where  the  lighting  conditions  in  exterior 
work  are  very  unfavourable,  when  the  faster  H.P.3.  film  is  recommended. 
The  new  material  is  fully  panchromatic  and  yellow  correcting  filters  may 
therefore  be  used  without  undue  increase  in  exposure  being  required. 
A  developer  of  the  M.Q.  Borax  type,  such  as  Ilford  ID-11  is  recom- 
mended and,  with  this  solution  and  a  developing  temperature  of  65°F,  a 
gamma  of  0  •  70  is  obtained  in  6-minutes  with  vigorous  agitation.  The 
recommended  2b  control  gamma  is  between  0  •  70  and  0  •  80. 

Ilford  H.P.3.  \6-mm  negative.  The  very  high  speed  of  H.P.3  provides  the 
cinematographer  with  a  film  which  he  can  use  with  confidence  for  all 
subjects  by  artificial  light.  It  is  also  extremely  useful  for  daylight  in 
very  poor  light  such  as  prevails  in  winter  or  in  the  late  evening.  The  use 
of  Pan  F  is  however  recommended  for  general  photography  in  bright 
daylight  because  the  high-speed  of  Ilford  H.P.3  leads  to  over-exposure 
unless  filters  or  other  special  devices  are  employed.  Ilford  H.P.3  is 
rated  at  32°  Sch.  or  80  Weston  (daylight),  64  (Tungsten)  or  Ilford  Speed 
Group  F.  As  with  Ilford  Pan  F.,  the  ID-11  M.Q.  Borax  forumula  is 
recommended  for  development  and  the  required  gamma  of  0  •  60  to  0  •  70 
is  reached  in  10  to  1 6  minutes  at  65°F  according  to  the  degree  of  agitation. 

(Authors'  note:  The  above  information  concerning  both  Ilford  negative 
materials  is  furnished  through  the  courtesy  of  Ilford  Ltd.). 

Kodak  Limited.  Kodak  Type  7231  Plus  X  16-mm  picture  negative.  This 
is  a  high  speed,  fine  grain  panchromatic  negative  material,  well  suited  to 
general  interior  photography  and  to  exterior  photography.  The 
recommended  2b  control  gamma  is  between  0-60  and  0-70  and  the 
recommended  developer  is  Kodak  D.76.  Under  these  conditions  a 
gamma  of  0-65  will  be  reached  in  9-minutes  at  65°F.  The  film  has  a 
resolving  power  of  approximately  55  lines  per  mm  in  Kodak  D.76 
developer.  It  should  be  handled  in  a  Wratten  series  3  safelight  and  is 
available  in  rolls  of  either  100-ft  or  200-ft  length. 

Kodak  Type  7302  Fine  Grain  Release  Positive  film  (16-mm).  This  is  an 
extremely  fine  grain  release  positive  material  of  approximately  one- 
fifth  the  speed  of  Positive  Film  Type  5301.  Because  of  the  fine  grain, 
high  resolving  power  and  image  sharpness,  it  produces  prints  of  excellent 
definition  and  general  quality,  particularly  when  used  in  conjunction 
with  the  fine  grain  duplicating  materials.  This  material  may  also  be  used 
for  sound  recording  purposes,  for  negative  and  positive  titles,  dubbing 
prints  for  sound,  etc.  The  material  is  blue-sensitive  only  and  should  be 
processed  to  a  2b  control  gamma  of  between  2-40  and  2-60.  The 
resolving  power  is  90  lines  per  mm.  A  Wratten  Series  OA  or  an  O  safelight 
may  be  used  and  the  film  is  available  in  lengths  of  either  400-ft  or  1 ,000-ft. 

Kodak  Type  7301  16-mm  Positive  film.  This  is  a  low  speed,  positive  type 
emulsion  used  for  16-mm  release  printing.  The  recommended  2b  control 
gamma  is  between  2-0  and  2-2,  which  will  be  reached  in  Kodak  D.16 
developing  solution  in  between  4  ■  0  and  5  •  5  minutes.  The  material  is 


1 6- MM  FILMS   AND   THEIR  USES  413 

blue  sensitive  only  and  has  a  resolving  power  of  55-lines  per  mm. 
Wratten  series  OA  safelights  should  be  used  and  the  film  is  supplied 
in  lengths  of  either  400-ft  or  1,000-ft. 

Kodak  Type  7203  16-mm  Fine  Grain  Duplicating  Negative.  This  is  a 
low-speed  panchromatic  duplicating  material  of  exceedingly  fine  grain 
and  high  resolving  power.  It  is  used  for  making  16-mm  duplicate 
negatives  from  35-mm  master  positives  in  order  to  facilitate  the  making 
of  16-mm  prints  by  contact.  The  material  is  fully  panchromatic  and 
has  a  resolving  power  of  110-lines  per  mm.  The  recommended  2b 
control  gamma  is  between  0  •  60  and  0  •  65.  (A  gamma  of  0  •  62  is  reached 
in  5-5  minutes  when  Kodak  D.76  solution  is  used  at  65  F).  The 
material  is  available  either  perforated  on  one  side  only  for  sound 
work  or  on  both  sides  for  silent  pictures.  It  can  also  be  supplied  in 
lengths  of  either  400-ft  or  1,000-ft.  A  Wratten  series  3  safelight  should 
be  used  with  this  film. 

(Authors'  note:  The  above  information  concerning  Kodak  negative, 
duplicating  and  positive  16-mm  materials  is  furnished  through  the 
courtesy  of  The  Technical  Service  Dept,  Motion  Picture  Film  Division, 
Kodak  Limited). 

Positive  Emulsions 

All  positive  emulsions  are  characterised  by  the  very  high  gamma 
which  can  be  obtained  when  processed  in  certain  developing 
solutions.  For  this  reason  they  may  be  used  for  a  variety  of 
purposes  other  than  the  straightforward  production  of  positive 
prints  from  16-mm  negatives. 

For  examples,  Travelling  Mattes  are  usually  made  so  that  some 
sections  of  the  frame  must  be  kept  perfectly  transparent  whilst 
other  sections  must  have  a  maximum  density.  Black-and-white 
titles,  or  titles  which  are  subsequently  dye-toned  for  inclusion  in 
colour  films,  must  also  have  the  very  highest  possible  contrast  if 
brilliant  lettering  against  a  jet  black  background  is  to  be  achieved. 

From  the  amateurs  point  of  view,  the  use  of  positive  film  when 
titles  are  being  produced  has  several  advantages.  Amongst  these 
the  following  three  points  are  perhaps  the  most  important:  -  (1) 
Positive  film  is  not  so  expensive  as  reversal  stock.  (2)  It  may  be 
quite  easily  processed  in  short  lengths  and  in  a  dark  room  illumina- 
ted by  a  comparatively  bright  safelight.  (3)  Since  the  film  is  not 
reversed,  but  is  given  a  'straight'  development,  titles  having  white 
letters  upon  a  black  background  may  be  conveniently  produced 
from  white  title  cards  on  which  the  letters  have  been  drawn  in 
black  Indian  ink. 

This  last  point  is  perhaps  the  most  attractive  to  the  amateur 
user  since  the  production  of  white  ink  letters  upon  a  black  back- 
ground -  as  would  be  necessary  if  reversal  film  were  used  -  is  often 
very  difficult  and  rarely  produces  perfectly  clean  cut  letters  of  uni- 


414 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


l-OO 

LOG  EXPOSURE 

Fig  170. — Characteristics  of  positive  film  emulsions. 

form  intensity.  Since  positive  film  can  be  readily  handled  in  short 
lengths  it  is  also  a  relatively  easy  matter  to  use  the  camera  as  a  print- 
ing machine  and  to  produce  a  negative  copy  from  the  original 
positive  title.  Assuming  the  original  title  card  carried  black  letters 
on  a  white  ground,  the  original  camera  film  will  contain  white 
letters  upon  a  black  ground  and,  after  a  print  has  been  made  from 
this  film,  a  copy  with  letters  and  background  similar  to  the  original 
title  card  can  be  produced.  This  copy  may  then  be  threaded  in  the 
camera  infront  of  a  length  of  normal  reversal  film  so  that  titles 
with  a  moving  pictorial  background  may  be  produced.  This 
process  is  naturally  rather  lengthy  and  should  only  be  used  when 
the  camera  is  not  fitted  with  a  matte  box  (see  Chapter  12).  When 
matte  boxes  are  available  a  similar  result  may  be  obtained  by 
mounting  a  section  of  clear  celluloid  in  front  of  the  camera  and 
upon  which  black  lettered  titles  may  be  written. 

Some  idea  of  the  contrast  which  may  be  obtained  with  positive 
film  is  gained  from  Figure  170.  This  diagram  shows  four  values  of 
gamma  which  may  be  produced  with  such  a  film  when  developed 
in  Kodak  formula  D-16  for  3-0,  4-0,  5-5  and  8-0  minutes 
respectively.  Obviously,  these  curves  can  do  no  more  than  indicate 
the  general  range  of  contrast  which  is  obtainable  under  known 
conditions.  In  practice  the  actual  contrast  obtained  will  depend 
upon  several  factors  such  as  the  age  of  the  developer,  the  temperature 
at  which  it  is  used,  the  degree  of  agitation  given  to  the  solution 
and  the  type  of  development  which  is  employed.  This  last 
point  is  mentioned  to  draw  a  distinction  between  machine,  tank 
or  dish  processing,  each  of  which  will  produce  a  slightly  different 
result  from  the  others. 


CHAPTER  16 


GENERAL    TRENDS    AND 
RECENT    INVENTIONS 


The  instruments  and  processes  which  have  been  so  far  described 
may  be  classified  under  the  heading  'General  Equipment  and 
Technique'  and,  as  such,  represent  the  normal  tools  of  the 
Industry.  However,  experiments  are  being  continually  carried 
out  with  this  basic  machinery  in  the  hope  of  perfecting  some  new 
modification  or  application  which,  it  is  believed,  will  improve  the 
quality  of  the  final  product.  It  is  often  very  difficult  to  visualise  the 
large  number  of  specialised  fields  upon  which  the  Industry  depends 
for  its  present  success,  and  each  of  which  has  contributed  its  share 
towards  perfecting  what  may,  perhaps,  be  described  as  the  greatest 
of  all  illusions.  It  is  also  equally  difficult  to  remember  that  com- 
plicated academic  theories  in  the  fields  of  physics,  chemistry, 
radio  and  optics -to  mention  but  a  few -are  necessary  to  the 
advancement  of  the  final  screen  play,  particularly  when  many  of 
these  improvements  appear,  at  first  sight,  to  be  confined  to  the 
laboratory  or  engineering  sections  of  the  studio.  Since  many  of  these 
improvements  may  be  designed  to  make  a  known  process  more 
convenient  to  handle  -  without  actually  altering  the  final  results  - 
their  value  can  sometimes  only  be  measured  by  the  increased 
frequency  with  which  such  a  process  is  afterwards  employed  in 
film  production. 

With  these  facts  in  minds  it  becomes  very  difficult  to  select  any 
one  group  of  inventions  and  to  acclaim  this  as  being  an  outstanding 
contribution  to  the  general  technique.  It  is  therefore  only  possible 
to  choose  a  very  few  isolated  cases  from  the  several  main  fields 
within  the  Industry  and  to  use  them,  not  necessarily  to  demon- 
strate the  most  remarkable  achievements,  but  as  indications  both 
of  the  general  trend  of  present  developments  and  also  the  wide 
field  of  research  work  which  is  applicable  to  the  Industry.  These 

415 


416 


PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


points  will  be  shown  by  selecting  several  improvements  made  in  the 
following  branches  of  cinematography:  -  (1)  Improvements  in 
sound  recording  and  reproduction.  (2)  Improvements  in  presenta- 
tion. (3)  Animation  and  trick  effects.  (4)  Special  equipments  and 
processes. 

(1)  Improvements  in  Sound  Recording  and  Reproduction 

(a)  Centering  Scanning  beams  by  Buzz-Track  Control.  One  of  the 
simplest  and  yet  most  helpful  recent  variations  of  the  photographic 
sound  record  is  seen  in  Figure  171.  A  specially  prepared  track  is  used 
to  adjust  the  position  of  the  scanning  beam  in  the  reproducing  heads 
and  to  indicate  in  which  direction  the  adjustment  should  be  made. 
Considering  firstly  the  35-mm  case,  shown  on  the  left  of  the  figure,  the 
Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers  have  recommended  that  the  width 
of  the  scanned  area  shall  be  0  •  084-inch  (2  •  144-mm),  and  that  the  distance 
measured  from  the  guided  film  edge  to  the  track  centre  shall  be  0  •  243- 
inch  (6  •  272-mm).  The  control  track  suitable  for  adjusting  the  reproducer 
to  these  dimensions  is  seen  below  the  film  sample  at  position  'A'. 
The  clear  area,  0- 088-inch  (2-235-mm)  in  width  and  having  its  centre 
0-243 -inch  (6 -272-mm)  from  the  guided  film  edge,  represents  the 
dimensions  of  the  scanned  area  of  a  perfectly  printed  track,  plus  a 
clearance  of  0- 002-inch  (0  050-mm)  on  each  side.  This  clearance  is 
provided  to  accommodate  film  weave  and  printing  tolerances.  A  300 
cycle  constant  frequency  note  is  recorded  on  one  side  of  this  clear  area 
and  a  1 ,000  cycle  note  is  recorded  on  the  other  side.  When  such  a  track 
is  passed  through  a  reproducer  a  signal  will  only  be  heard  if  the 
scanning  area  is  misplaced  with  respect  to  the  film.  The  nature  of  the 
signal  will,  of  course,  indicate  the  direction  in  which  the  guide  shoes  in 
the  scanning  gate  should  be  moved  in  order  to  correct  such  misplace- 


WIDTH    OF    SCANNED    AREA 
-0084' 


WIDTH     Of    SCANNED    AREA 
^O  Q74' 


300  CYCLES/ SEC 


OOO  CYCLES/SEC 


300i 


Fig.  171.— Scanning  areas  centred  by  "buzz  track"  control  system. 


GENERAL   TRENDS   AND   RECENT   INVENTIONS 


417 


Fig.  172. — Volume  expansion  by  control  tracks. 

ment.  The  dimensions  and  arrangement  of  a  similar  'buzz  track',  for 
use  when  adjusting  16-mm  sound  reproducers,  is  shown  at  position  'B'. 
It  is  worth  noting  that  the  present  developments  of  this  type  of  film 
has  advanced  to  the  point  where  controls,  equal  to  those  applied  to 
35-mm  equipment,  are  considered  necessary. 

(b)  Volume  Expansion  and  Sprocket-Hole  Control  Track.  Other 
sections  of  the  film  width,  apart  from  those  occupied  by  the  sound 
track  and  the  picture,  have  also  been  utilised  for  various  purposes. 
One  particularly  neat  invention  makes  use  of  the  emulsion  between  the 
perforations  and  on  which  to  photograph  a  'Control  Track',  both  to 
adjust  the  sound  volume  range  and  also  to  bring  into  use  additional 
speaker  units.  It  has  been  realised  that,  whilst  the  existing  volume  range 
is  quite  adequate  for  normal  studio  productions,  it  would  add  con- 
siderably to  the  realism  of  the  medium  if  extra  volume  could  be 
obtained  when  large  scale  battle  scenes  and  similar  exterior  shots  are 
to  be  made.  Realism  would  also  be  increased  if  additional  speakers, 
placed  to  the  side  of  the  screen,  can  be  brought  into  operation  auto- 
matically to  give  the  impression  that  the  source  of  sound  is  as  wide  or 
wider  than  the  screen  itself. 

Both  these  requirements  have  been  met  by  the  relatively  simple  attach- 
ment to  existing  projectors  shown  in  Figure  172.  The  film  is  fed  around 
the  normal  sound  drum  in  the  usual  manner  and  then,  via  a  constant 
speed  sprocket,  to  the  underside  of  a  circular  lamp-house  -  where  it  is 
guided  by  a  semi-circular  shoe.  The  film  then  passes  to  the  normal 
hold-back  sprocket  and  so  to  the  take-up  spool.  The  beam  of  light 
passes  through  a  relatively  large  aperture  in  the  guiding  shoe,  cut  in 
such  a  position  that  it  will  scan  the  perforated  area  'A',  as  shown  in  the 
right-hand  diagram.  The  light  is  then  caused  to  operate  a  control  photo- 
electric cell,  mounted  directly  below  the  lamp-house. 
A  sample  control  track,  shown  to  the  right  of  the  figure,  will  be  seen  to 
consist  of  a  varying  width  transparent  central  section,  enclosed  by 


27 


418 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


parallel  areas  of  opacity  symmetrically  placed  with  respect  to  the 
perforations.  In  position  T  the  clear  sections  between  the  perforations 
is  equal  in  width  to  the  perforations  themselves  and,  consequently,  no 
signal  will  pass  to  the  photo-cell.  In  position  '2'  the  amount  of  light 
transmitted  by  the  clear  section  between  the  perforations  is  approxi- 
mately one-third  of  that  which  will  be  transmitted  by  the  perforations 
themselves  and,  therefore,  a  signal  will  be  reproduced  by  the  photo-cell 
and  ampifier  circuit.  Similarly,  in  position  '3',  the  difference  in  trans- 
mission between  the  clear  sections  of  film  and  the  perforations  themselves 
is  even  greater  and,  in  consequence,  a  stronger  signal  will  be  reproduced. 
The  frequency  of  this  signal  will  always  be  controlled  by  the  number  of 
perforations  which  pass  the  scanning  point  each  second  and  will,  there- 
fore, always  be  a  96  cycle  frequency.  The  strength  of  the  signal  will  be 
controlled  by  the  relative  difference  between  the  amount  of  light 
transmitted  through  a  perforation  and  that  transmitted  through  the 
clear  central  aperture  in  the  emulsion  between  the  perforations. 
This  constant  low  frequency  of  variable  strength  is  then  fed  to  a  vari- 
able-gain amplifier  which  is  used  to  extend  the  natural  volume  range 
of  the  original  sound  track.  This  is  more  easily  understood  from 
Figure  173,  which  shows  a  block  diagram  of  the  control  track  apparatus. 
The  main  amplification  circuit  of  the  system  must  have  sufficient  power 
capacity  for  the  required  output  when  the  maximum  control  is  in 
operation.  When  the  control  is  zero  -  that  is,  when  the  area  between  the 
perforations  is  transparent  -  only  the  normal  horn  systems  and  the 
main  amplifier  arrangement  will  be  in  operation  and,  consequently, 
the  volume  range  will  be  limited  by  the  photographic  properties  of  the 
sound  track.  The  control  and  variable-gain  amplifier  is  inserted  between 
the  stages  of  the  voltage  amplifier  so  that  the  volume  of  any  signal 
generated  by  the  control  track  will  be  used  to  change  the  amplification 
range  of  the  main  amplifier,  and  so  increase  the  amplification  of  the 
sound  track  signals.  It  is  important  to  realise  that  the  variable-gain 
circuit  is  so  designed  that  the  degree  to  which  it  amplifies  one  signal  is 
dependent  upon  the  volume  of  a  second  control  signal.  The  frequency 
of  this  control  signal  is  unimportant  since  it  is  no  way  superimposed 
upon  the  final  speech  signals  from  the  sound  track  and,  in  any  case,  is 
filtered  out  before  the  main  amplication  stages. 


SOUND   TRACK 
PHOTO   CELL 


/OV        >»  VOLT* 

V^/        -"         AMPLIF 


\f       i\ 


VARIABLE  GAIN 
AND  CONTROL 
AMPLIFIER 


o 


CONTROL   TRACK 
PHOTO  CELL 


ADDED     SiDE 
HORNS 


NORMAL     HORNS 


ADDED    SIDE 
HORNS 


Fig.  173. — Block  schematic  of  control  track  apparatus. 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS        419 


INCIDENT 
LIGHT    BEAM 


SPREAD    OF  IMAGE 
IN    EMULSION 

Fig.  174. — Image  spreading  by  reflection. 

When  the  control  signal  is  between  l/3rd  and  1/2  strength  a  relay 
control  automatically  inserts  two  banks  of  additional  speakers.  These 
speakers  may  be  placed  at  the  most  advantageous  positions,  either 
behind  or  at  the  side  of  the  screen,  to  give  the  impression  of  a  broad 
sound  source.  The  volume  from  each  bank  of  speakers  will  then  be 
equal  to  that  obtained  from  the  normal  speaker  system.  When  the 
control  signal  increases  in  strength  above  the  level  this  amplification 
of  the  entire  system  is  raised  and  the  impression  of  a  broad  source  of 
even  greater  volume  is  thus  obtained. 

This  system  has  the  advantage  that  it  is  entirely  automatic  from  the 
projectionists  point  of  view;  that  the  size  and  position  of  the  control 
track  scanning  point  is  relatively  unimportant;  that  projectors  fitted 
with  this  refinement  are  still  capable  of  handling  normal  films  which  do 
not  contain  a  volume  control  track,  and  that  films  which  do  contain 
such  a  track  may  also  be  projected  on  machines  which  are  not  fitted 
with  the  attachments  necessary  to  take  advantage  of  its  possibilities. 

(c)  Ultra-Violet  Sound  Recording  and  Printing.  Another  develop- 
ment in  the  field  of  sound  recording  and  reproduction  concerns  the 
advantages  gained  by  using  light  of  a  particular  wave-length  when 
original  sounds  are  recorded  or  when  copies  are  being  printed.  This 
system,  the  introduction  of  which  is  largely  due  to  the  R.C.A.  Company, 
is  known  as  'The  Ultra- Violet  Sound  Recording  and  Printing  Technique'. 
If  a  narrow  pencil  of  light  of  known  dimensions  is  directed  onto  a  photo- 
graphic film  (as  will  occur  in  any  sound  recording  process),  it  is  essential 
that  the  dimensions  of  the  resultant  silver  image  are  as  near  as  possible 
to  those  of  the  original  light  beam.  Obviously,  if  any  image  spreading 
occurs,  it  is  conceivable  that,  at  the  high  frequencies,  this  spreading 
might  become  so  serious  as  to  fill  in  the  separations  between  individual 
wave  forms  and  so  lower  the  upper  frequency  response  of  the  system. 
That  this  actually  occurs  when  normal  tungsten  fight  is  employed  will 
be  appreciated  from  Figure  174.  The  desired  width  of  the  light  beam  is 
indicated  at  *A-A'  but,  as  the  beam  penetrates  the  emulsion  (which  must 


420  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

act  as  a  partial  diffusing  medium),  it  will  tend  to  grow  in  width  as 
indicated  by  the  heavy  shading.  The  remaining  light  which  passes 
through  the  emulsion  will  eventually  make  contact  with  the  opposite 
face  of  the  support.  Much  of  that  light  which  is  within  the  critical  angle 
will  pass  through  the  support  and  will  only  be  reflected  if  the  film  is 
mounted  on  a  highly  polished  surface.  That  part  of  the  beam  which  is 
outside  the  critical  angle  will  suffer  almost  total  reflection,  as  indicated 
at  *C  and  'D',  and  will  cause  halation  around  the  region  of  intentional 
exposure.  Obviously,  this  difficulty  will  only  become  noticeable  when 
high  frequency  response  with  the  highest  possible  quality  is  required. 
On  first  consideration  it  would  appear  that  these  reflections  could  be 
reduced  by  reducing  the  power  of  the  light  beam  so  that  it  became 
exhausted  before  it  had  completely  penetrated  the  emulsion  layer. 
This  is  not  possible  since  the  beam  then  becomes  so  photographically 
weak  that  the  track  density  is  lowered  beyond  the  useable  limits.  How- 
ever, it  has  been  found  that  a  photographic  emulsion,  whilst  photo- 
graphically sensitive  to  many  wave-lengths,  only  transmits  certain  wave- 
lengths, and  acts  as  a  very  strong  filter  to  others,  particularly  those 
approaching  the  Ultra- Violet  region  of  the  spectrum.  Fortunately, 
sound  recording  fiims  not  only  act  as  a  filter  to  resist  the  transmission  of 
Ultra- Violet  rays,  but  are  also  highly  sensitive  to  such  wave-lengths. 
The  basic  principles  of  the  Ultra-Violet  recording  process  are,  therefore, 
to  employ  light  of  such  wave-length  that  it  will  be  highly  effective  as  a 
photographic  source  but  which  will  not  be  readily  transmitted  by  the 
recording  emulsion.  Naturally,  the  result  of  this  modification  is  that  the 
reflections  originally  occuring  at  the  film  base  are  eliminated  and  the 
high  frequency  response  is  improved. 

The  required  band  of  wave-lengths  suitable  for  this  work  is  obtained 
by  inserting  a  suitable  filter  between  the  light  source  and  the  main 
optical  system  of  both  the  sound  recording  and  printing  mechanisms. 
Two  subsidiary  improvements  also  result  from  this  practice;  firstly, 
the  chromatic  aberrations  of  the  lens  system  are  obviously  reduced  and, 
secondly,  the  amount  of  diffraction  present  at  the  exposure  plane  is 
dependent  upon  the  wave-length  of  the  light  beam  and  is  decreased  with 
this  wave-length.  Since  wave-lengths  in  the  region  of  the  Ultra- Violet 
are  very  short,  by  comparison  with  those  present  in  the  normal  recording 
light  sources,  the  degree  of  diffraction  is  correspondingly  reduced. 

(d)  Constant  Speed  Sound  Drives  With  the  foregoing  improvements 
relating  almost  exclusively  to  the  ability  to  reproduce  high  frequencies 
it  is  not  surprising  that  attention  has  also  been  given  to  the  problem 
of  maintaining  a  constant  film  speed  at  the  scanning  point.  Obviously, 
any  improvement  in  high  frequency  response  will  only  be  maintained  if 
the  mechanisms  used  to  move  the  film  are  sufficiently  accurate.  The 
possible  sources  of  errors  in  the  basic  arrangement  of  such  mechanisms 
are  shown  in  Figure  175,  and  may  be  classified  as  follows:  -(1)  The 
electrical  supply  to  the  driving  motor  may  be  subject  to  irregular  surges 
which  may  cause  motor  speed  variations  at  frequencies  higher  than  the 
fundamental  surge  frequency.  (2)  The  two  most  serious  irregularities 
which  may  be  transmitted  to  the  sound  scanning  point,  and  traced  to 
the  gear  train,  are  the  tooth  frequency  of  the  sprocket  wheels  (which  is, 
of  course,  a  96  cycle  note),  and  the  varying  load  transmitted  through 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS 


421 


VARIATIONS   IN 
SPROCKET    TEETH, 
FILM    PERFORATIONS.     I 
SHAFT    FRICTIONS.  ETC   £  =  =  -• 


MAINS    VARIATIONS 
L  INHERENT  MO 
VARIATIONS 


^VARIATIONS      OF 
FRACTIONAL   LOADS 
IN    SCANNING    SYSTEM 


MECHANISM    VARIATIONS 
DUE    TO   GEAR    TEETH. 
MALTESE    CROSS    LOAD. 
SHAFT    FRICTIONS,    ETC." 


Fig.  175. — Sources  of  error  in  sound  film  drives. 

the  gears  from  the  intermittent  mechanism  which  will,  therefore,  be  at 
the  picture  frequency  of  24  cycles  per  second.  (3)  Small  variations  in 
the  cutting  of  the  teeth  in  the  gear  train  and  also  variations  in  the 
friction  between  these  teeth.  (4)  Variations  in  the  friction  between  the 
bearings  of  the  scanning  drum  and  flywheel  shaft. 
One  system  used  to  isolate  the  scanning  drum  from  these  sources  of 
speed  variation  is  shown  in  Figure  176  and  is  known  as  'The  Fluid 
Flywheel  Drive'.  The  film  'A'  is  passed  around  the  scanning  drum  'B' 
and  then  to  the  hold-back  sprocket  'C\  It  should  be  noticed  that  the 
hold-back  sprocket  is  connected  with  its  centre  shaft  by  a  compression 
spring  T>'  and,  in  consequence,  may  move  relative  to  this  shaft.  If, 
therefore,  the  speed  of  the  shaft  should  vary,  its  effect  upon  the  velocity 


Fig.  176.— The  fluid  flywheel  drive. 


422 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


of  the  film  passing  the  scanning  point  will  be  reduced  by  the  accom- 
modation of  the  spring  'D\  The  scanning  drum  'B'  is  connected  to  a 
centre  shaft  which  passes  through  an  oil  tight  chamber  *E'  and  to  the 
opposite  end  of  this  shaft  is  mounted  a  heavy  flywheel.  Two  sets  of 
vanes  'F'  are  connected  to  this  centre  shaft  and  on  that  section  which  is 
enclosed  by  the  chamber  'E'.  These  vanes  are  caused  to  rotate  within  a 
bath  of  viscous  oil  and  therefore  serve  to  reduce  any  variations  in  the 
speed  of  the  scanning  drum  'B\  In  practice  both  the  flywheel  and  the  oil 
damping  devices  offer  considerable  resistance  to  changes  in  speed, 
and  are  so  designed  that  the  peak  resistance  occurs  at  the  frequencies 
most  likely  to  be  encountered  in  such  mechanisms. 
Two  further  constant  speed  devices  are  shown  in  Figure  177.  That 
seen  in  sketch  'A'  depends  upon  the  balance  of  rotational  forces  between 
the  energy  imparted  by  the  coil  spring  and  the  resistance  to  motion  set 
up  by  a  fixed  frictional  brake,  applied  to  the  periphery  of  the  flywheel. 
The  flywheel  is  solidly  coupled  to  the  scanning  drum  but  is  only  con- 
nected to  the  main  driving  mechanism  by  the  large  coil  spring,  one  end 
of  which  is  attached  to  the  face  of  the  flywheel.  The  opposite  end  of  the 
spring  is  attached  to  the  centre  of  a  shaft  solidly  connected  to  the  main 
driving  mechanism.  The  only  connection  between  this  shaft  and  the 
flywheel  is  through  the  coil  spring.  When  in  a  state  of  balance  the  coil 
spring  will  always  be  slightly  compressed,  due  to  the  braking  action  of  the 
fixed  frictional  pad  applied  to  the  flywheel.  This  slight  compression 
provides  a  reservoir  of  power  with  which  to  accommodate  changes  in 
driving  load  from  the  main  mechanism. 

The  mechanism  seen  in  sketch  'B'  depends  upon  the  magnetic  couple 
between  the  pole  pieces  'N'  and  'S'  and  the  copper  ring  which  passes 
between  them.  The  pole  pieces  and  the  flywheel  are,  in  this  case, 
solidly  coupled  to  the  main  driving  mechanism.  The  copper  ring, 
supported  by  a  central  hub,  is  solidly  coupled  to  the  scanning  drum, 
but  the  only  connection  between  this  and  the  flywheel  is  by  the  magnetic 
couple  between  the  ring  and  the  pole  pieces.  The  magnetic  couple 
operates  in  much  the  same  manner  as  a  viscuous  drive  in  which  the 
power  is  transmitted  from  one  member  to  another  by  virtue  of  the 
viscuous  properties  of  the  oil. 


FLYWHEEL    SOLIDLY    COUPLED    TO  GEAR    DRIVE 
(MAGNETICALLY  COUPLED    TO   SCANNING     DRUM) 


INNER    END   OF    SPRING 
CONNECTED    TO  GEAR   DRIVE 


OUTER   END  OF  SPRING 
CONNECTED     TO  FLYWHEEL 


FIXED   FRICTIONAL       (S) 
Rtil^ANCt  ^ 


COPPER    R!NG    SOLIDLY 
ATTACHED    TO    SCANNING    DRUM 
(MAGNETICALLY    COUPLED    TO   GEAR     DRIVE) 


Fig.  177. — Modern  constant-speed  film  drives. 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS 


423 


STEREOPHONIC 
SOUND    TRACKS 


Fig.  178. — "Fantasound"  multiple  sound  tracks. 


(e)  Fantasound.  One  of  the  greatest  demonstrations  of  the  successful 
applications  of  all  the  foregoing  developments  was  given  in  the  Walt 
Disney  feature  film  'Fantasound'.  The  'Fantasound'  system  was  de- 
veloped to  give  the  reproduced  sounds  the  three  dimensional  character- 
istics met  with  in  real  life.  By  distributing  a  series  of  speakers  throughout 
the  auditorium  it  is  possible  to  operate  each  one  in  turn  and  to  so  pass  the 
apparent  source  of  sound  in  a  predetermined  path,  either  above,  below 
or  infront  of  the  actual  screen  pictures.  Obviously,  such  an  effect  can  be 
suitably  staged  to  bear  a  definite  relationship  to  the  screen  picture; 
for  example,  a  'Disney'  wasp  can  be  made  to  fly  in  a  circular  path 
around  the  auditorium  and,  if  it  is  seen  to  leave  the  screen  to  the  left- 
hand  side,  is  heard  to  fly  around  the  auditorium  and  is  then  seen  to 
return  to  the  screen  on  the  right-hand  side,  this  effect  can  be  still  further 
increased  by  showing  a  figure  on  the  screen  during  the  whole  scene  and 
which  is  pointing  towards  the  audience  and  is  tracing  out  the  imaginary 
path  of  the  wasp  over  their  heads. 

So  much  for  the  artistic  possibilities  of  such  a  system;  it  has  been  made 
possible  by  the  use  of  two  films,  running  in  synchronism  which  must, 
of  course,  be  electrically  interlocked.  The  first  film  carries  the  picture 
record  and  one  auxiliary  sound  track.  This  track  is  only  used  if  the  main 
sound  film  or  its  circuit  should  break  down  or,  of  course,  if  the  theatre 
equipment  is  not  capable  of  reproducing  a  'Fantasound'  multi-channel 
track.  The  second  film  carries  a  series  of  sound  tracks  printed  across  its 
width.  One  arrangment  of  such  a  sound  film  is  seen  in  Figure  178. 
It  will  be  remembered  that  the  volume  control  track  previously 
described  has  been  used  to  expand  the  amplification  range  normally 
obtained  with  general  reproducing  equipment,  and  also  to  automatically 
engage  auxiliary  speakers  to  broaden  the  apparent  sound  source. 
This  control  was  produced  by  printing  a  variable-aperture  constant- 
density  record  in  the  spaces  between  the  film  perforations.  Since  a 


424  PRINCIPLES   OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

96-cycle  frequency  was  created  by  the  perforations,  an  auxiliary 
amplifier  was  caused  to  control  the  variable-gain  amplifier,  in  the  main 
sound  circuit,  by  virtue  of  this  constant  frequency  signal  of  varying 
amplitude.  The  important  point  to  realise  is  that  such  a  control  can  be 
automatically  obtained  providing  a  constant  frequency  note  is  applied 
to  the  controlling  circuit.  Once  this  is  done  the  adjustments  are  then 
made  by  the  circuit  itself  and  as  a  result  of  changes  in  amplitude  of 
this  constant  frequency. 

Electrical  filtering  circuits  have  been  designed  which  are  capable  of 
isolating  one  constant  frequency  note  from  other  such  notes,  although 
all  such  notes  may  be  reproduced  simultaneously.  For  example,  if  a 
control  track  is  made  to  consist  of  a  constant  frequency  of  100  cycles, 
plus  another  of  300  cycles  and  yet  a  third  of  600  cycles,  all  being 
superimposed  within  one  track,  electrical  analysing  or  filtering  channels 
are  available  which  will  isolate  each  frequency  from  the  others  and  feed 
it  to  any  particular  circuit.  Obviously,  each  constant  frequency  may  be 
recorded  with  any  required  amplitude  so  that,  at  any  given  instant,  the 
100  cycle  component  may  have  a  high  amplitude,  whilst  the  300  cycle 
component  has  a  medium  amplitude  and  the  600  cycle  frequency  has  a 
very  low  amplitude. 

This  is,  very  briefly,  the  arrangement  within  the  control  track  employed 
in  the  'Fantasound'  system,  and,  if  we  assume  that  track  'A',  Figure  178, 
is  the  control  track  and  contains  the  three  superimposed  frequencies, 
each  with  its  independent  amplitude,  then  the  remaining  three  tracks 
may  carry  those  particular  sounds  which  are  to  be  reproduced  through 
certain  speaker  systems.  Let  us  assume  for  simplicity  that  the  recording 
on  track  'C  will  always  be  reproduced  by  those  speakers  at  the  rear  of 
the  screen,  the  recording  on  track  'B'  will  always  be  reproduced  by 
those  speakers  placed  along  the  auditorium  and  to  the  left  of  the 
audience,  and  that  the  recording  on  track  'D'  will  always  be  reproduced 
by  speakers  placed  to  the  right  of  the  audience.  It  should  then  be 
apparent  that,  since  each  track,  'B',  'C  or  'D',  is  controlled  by  one 
of  the  three  constant  frequencies  contained  in  track  'A',  and,  given  a 
system  whereby  these  frequencies  can  be  isolated  and  applied  to  their 
respective  circuits,  the  volume  of  any  sound  from  any  part  of  the  audi- 
torium may  be  automatically  adjusted  and  pre-arranged  by  the  studio 
technicians. 

The  recording  and  reproducing  mechanisms  necessary  to  obtain 
'stereophonic'  sound  are  exceptionally  ingenious  and  it  should  be 
remembered  that,  merely  to  reproduce  the  four  tracks  illustrated,  four 
photo-cells  must  each  be  arranged  around  a  single  scanning  drum;  each 
must  be  fed  to  separate  pre-amplifiers  and,  in  the  case  of  the  three  sound 
tracks,  each  must  be  fed  to  separate  control  channels  (modulated  by  the 
constant  frequency  track)  before  passing  to  their  main  amplifiers  and 
banks  of  speakers. 

The  arrangement  of  speakers  mentioned  previously  was  intentionally 
simplified  in  order  to  explain  the  general  principles  of  the  system; 
five  independent  banks  of  speakers  are  normally  employed  in  the 
'Fantasound'  system  -  one  placed  on  the  centre  line  of  the  screen,  and 
one  at  each  side  of  the  screen.  The  other  two  banks  are  each  placed  either 
at  the  sides  of  the  auditorium  or  in  pre-selected  positions  throughout  the 
hall  in  order  to  produce  the  desired  effects.  At  present  the  complete 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS        425 

'Fantasound*  system  has  only  been  installed  in  a  very  few  American 
theatres  and,  because  of  this,  the  film  'Fantasia'  was  normally  run  as  an 
ordinary  sound  film  using  the  auxiliary  track  printed  on  the  picture 
film  and  which  was,  originally,  intended  for  use  only  in  an  emergency. 
Under  these  conditions  the  film  could  be  reproduced  by  any  sound 
system  although,  of  course,  the  stereophonic  sound  effects  would  not  be 
obtained.  At  the  present  stage  of  development  it  seems  very  unlikely 
that  stereophonic  sound  reproduction  will  become  widely  used  whilst 
such  complicated  installations  are  required  in  the  theatres. 

(2)  Improvements  in  Presentation 

(a)  Flickerless  Projection.  Turning  now  to  recent  developments  in  the 
field  of  picture  quality  and  presentation,  it  is  interesting  to  note  one  of 
the  many  designs  which  have  been  introduced  to  maintain  the  screen 
constantly  illuminated.  It  will  be  apparent  that  two  main  defects  exist 
with  the  normal  picture  projector;  firstly,  the  arc  lamps  are  required  to 
run  at  their  present  high  intensity  because  a  large  proportion  of  the  light 
is  lost  during  those  parts  of  the  projection  cycle  which  leaves  the 
screen  dark  whilst  the  shutter  is  covering  the  lens.  That  this  is  true  may 
be  readily  proved  by  running  a  projector  with  such  a  low  powered 
illuminant  that  the  machine  may  be  safely  stopped  with  the  picture  in  the 
gate  and  with  the  shutter  open.  When  this  is  done  it  will  be  found  that 
the  screen  picture  is  considerably  brighter  when  the  machine  is  stationary 
than  is  the  case  when  the  shutter  is  running.  The  second  point,  which  will 
only  cause  trouble  in  present-day  projection  if  the  screen  brightness  is 
not  correct,  is  that  flicker  may  be  noticeable  when  very  'thin'  prints 
are  used  or,  in  any  case,  if  the  observer  should  move  his  head  from  side 
to  side. 

Assuming  that  intermittent  film  movement  is  necessary,  it  is  still  quite 
possible  to  obtain  a  constantly  illuminated  screen  by  re-arranging  the 
order  in  which  the  pictures  are  printed  on  the  positive  film.  It  then 
becomes  necessary  to  use  a  specially  designed  projector  having  two 
heads  mounted  one  above  the  other.  One  suggested  arrangement  for 
such  a  film  is  shown  in  Figure  179,  in  which  it  is  assumed  that  the  two 
picture  heads  are  mounted  one  above  the  other  and  in  such  close 
proximity  that  a  free  loop,  fifteen  frames  in  length,  will  exist  between  the 
two  machines  when  both  are  correctly  threaded. 
Let  it  now  be  assumed  that  the  lower  head  is  projecting  frame  No.  20, 
as  indicated  at  position  T,  whilst  the  upper  head  is  drawing  the  film 
forward  to  bring  frame  No.  21  into  the  gate,  as  indicated  at  position  '2' 
(fifteen  frames  above  position  T).  Since  the  two  heads  are  connected 
180°  out  of  phase,  light  will  be  projected  from  the  lower  lens  whilst  the 
upper  lens  is  masked  off  and  the  film  in  the  upper  gate  is  being  moved 
forward. 

It  should  be  noticed  that  two  important  points  exist  in  the  arrangement 
of  this  film.  Firstly,  frames  to  be  shown  consecutively  are  always  printed 
fifteen  frames  apart  on  the  film  -  that  is,  frame  No.  21  is  fifteen  frames 
further  into  the  roll  of  film  than  frame  No.  20,  frame  No.  27  is  fifteen 
frames  further  in  the  roll  than  is  frame  No.  26  and  so  on  throughout 
the  entire  film.  The  second  point  is  that  alternate  frames  are  only 
printed  with  the  normal  two  frame  separation.  For  example,  Frame  No. 
22  is  only  two  frames  away  from  frame  No.  20,  whilst  frame  No.  21 


426 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


(although  fifteen  frames  later  than  frame  No.  20)  is  only  two  frames 
away  from  frame  No.  19.  This  may  be  summarised  as  follows:  -  Let 
it  be  assumed  that  all  the  even  numbered  frames  have  been  extracted 
from  a  normal  film  and  have  been  printed  onto  one  reel,  leaving  spaces 
between  each  printed  frame  and  into  which  the  odd  numbered  frames 
would  normally  be  placed.  Now  assume  that  all  the  odd  numbered 
frames  from  the  original  film  have  been  extracted  and  printed  onto  a 
second  reel  so  that  spaces  exist  between  each  printed  frame  and  into 
which  the  even  numbered  frames  would  normally  have  been  printed. 
Now  assume  that  these  two  new  reels  have  been  moved  with  respect 
to  each  other,  by  a  distance  of  fifteen  frames,  and  have  then  been 
recombined  onto  one  support. 

It  should  be  noted  that  each  mechanism  in  the  twin-head  projector 
must  move  the  film  forward  by  a  distance  equal  to  two  frames  since,  in 
the  example  given,  the  lower  head  will  project  frames  1,  3,  5,  7,  etc., 
whilst  the  upper  head  will  project  frames  2,  4,  6,  8,  etc.  Also  it  will  be 
necessary  to  make  provision  to  tilt  one  head  with  respect  to  the  other 
to  ensure  that  both  pictures  are  accurately  aligned  on  the  screen. 
Obviously,  this  re-arrangement  could  only  be  carried  out  with  a  specially 
designed  printing  machine  and  would  only  be  possible  on  the  final 
positive  copies  of  a  production  although,  once  the  required  arrangement 
had  been  achieved,  it  could  then  be  copied  on  any  of  the  existing 
types  of  printing  machines. 

Should  the  film  become  broken  it  would  be  necessary  to  remove  either 
two  or  four  frames  when  making  a  join  to  ensure  the  alternating  odd 
and  even  frame  sequence  were  maintained.  Whether  the  reduction  in 
flicker  and  the  increase  in  screen  brightness,  obtainable  with  such  a 
system,  would  justify  its  installation  throughout  the  Industry  is  very 


d>- 


0- 


Q> 


15  FRAMES 
ADVANCE 


26 


24 


22 


-CD 


Fig.  179.— Interlaced  printing  for  flickerless  projection. 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS 


427 


TO    I 

K 


A 


±A 


¥ 


Fig.  180. — A  water-cooled  mercury  discharge  lamp  as  projector  illuminant. 


questionable  -  it  must  always  be  remembered  that  those  improvements 
which  entail  a  considerable  change-over  from  existing  costly  equipment 
are  not  received  with  enthusiasm  unless  they  constitute  such  a  great 
step  forward  that  their  adoption  is  obviously  justified. 

(b)  Water-Cooled  Mercury  Discharge  Lamps.  Recent  developments 
in  the  design  of  mercury-vapour  discharge  lamps  have  not  only  produced 
several  units  which  compare  favourably  in  light  output  with  that 
obtained  from  carbon  arcs,  but  have  enabled  the  Phillips  Company  to 
produce  a  twin  head  projector  of  very  unusual  appearance  and  with 
many  attractive  features.  Naturally,  the  size  and  output  from  these 
lamps  varies  from  one  manufacturer  to  another,  but  a  general  idea  of 
the  dimensions  of  these  units  will  be  gathered  from  Figure  180.  The 
actual  length  of  the  arc  is  usually  between  12-5  and  25  millimetres,  and 
the  diameter  approximately  2  millimeters.  With  operating  voltages 
between  500  and  840,  at  currents  of  2  and  1  •  4  amps  respectively,  the 
power  consumption  is  usually  only  1,000  Watts.  The  surface  brightness 
of  these  lamps  ranges  between  30,000  and  57,000  candle-power  per 
square  centimetre  and,  therefore,  compares  with  the  surface  brightness 
of  14,000  candle-power  per  square  centimeter  produced  by  the  average 
low-intensity  carbon  arc,  or  from  between  50,000  and  86,000  candle- 
power  per  square  centimeter  produced  by  the  high-intensity  carbon  arcs. 
One  great  advantage  gained  from  the  use  of  these  lamps  is  the  reduction 
in  heat  radiation  from  a  source  of  a  brightness  equal  to  that  obtained  with 


428  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

a  corresponding  carbon  arc.  By  comparison,  the  energy  consumed  by 
the  mercury  lamp,  plus  the  necessary  rectifier  unit,  is  1  •  5  kilowatts, 
whereas  that  consumed  by  the  carbon  arc  is  approximately  3  kilowatts  - 
apart  from  this  fact,  it  is  possible  to  enclose  the  mercury  tube  within  a 
water-jacket  so  that  approximately  90  %  of  the  radiated  heat  will  be 
dissipated  by  the  cooling  water. 

Unfortunately  the  colour  of  the  light  produced  from  these  new  sources 
is  not  immediately  suitable  for  use  when  colour  films  are  projected. 
The  blue  component  is  slightly  excessive  and  there  is  also  a  rather  lower 
red  component  than  is  desirable.  The  blue  component  is  accordingly 
absorbed  to  some  extent  by  introducing  a  yellow  filter  into  the  light  beam, 
whilst  the  red  component  may  be  accentuated  by  the  use  of  red  filters  in 
place  of  the  normal  opaque  flicker  blades  of  the  projector  shutter.  It 
must  be  realised  that  only  those  blades  of  the  shutter  which  increase  the 
frequency  of  interruptions  are  so  modified  -  the  so  called  'pull-down' 
blade,  which  covers  the  lens  during  the  time  in  which  the  film  is 
moved  forward  to  the  next  frame,  is  still  maintained  absolutely  opaque. 
Naturally,  since  the  use  of  mercury-vapour  lighting  for  projection  work 
is  still  in  the  experimental  stages,  it  may  be  expected  that  these  draw- 
backs will  be  eliminated,  particularly  since  so  many  obvious  advantages 
may  be  gained  from  such  equipment. 

(c)  'Black  Lighting'  in  the  Auditorium.  Another  unusual  application 
of  a  particular  light  source  is  found  in  the  recent  use  of  so  called  'Black 
Lighting',  both  as  a  means  of  decoration  and  also  to  produce  a  general 
low  illumination  at  floor  level  in  the  auditorium.  Certain  fluorescent 
and  phosphorescent  materials  become  luminous  when  exposed  to  a 
light  source  having  a  radiation  in  the  near  Ultra-Violet  region  of  the 
spectrum.  The  Ultra-Violet  region  of  the  spectrum  is,  of  course, 
invisible  to  the  ordinary  eye.  Should  luminescence  only  exist  when  the 
light  source  is  active  the  material  is  said  to  be  'Fluorescent'  but,  if  the 
luminescence  persists  after  the  light  source  has  been  extinguished  the 
material  is  then  said  to  be  'Phosphorescent'.  Either  material  is  equally 
suitable  for  use  in  cinema  decoration.  Lighting  equipment,  usually 
consisting  of  a  mercury- Vapour  source  combined  with  certain  filters, 
has  been  made  for  the  production  of  fluorescent  lighting  effects  without 
the  light  source  or  its  beam  being  visible  to  the  audience.  The  effect 
produced  is  that  of  a  low  intensity  glow  without  any  apparent  light 
source  to  dazzle  the  eye  or  to  reduce  the  contrast  and  appreciation  of 
the  screen  picture. 

Many  paints  and  lacquers  have  been  prepared  to  contain  fluorescent 
materials,  and  it  is  also  now  possible  to  obtain  floor  carpeting  contain- 
ing a  fluorescent  pattern  which,  of  course,  need  not  necessarily  be 
similar  to  that  design  which  is  seen  by  white  light.  Two  new  furnishings 
are  therefore  available  to  the  theatre  architect;  firstly,  the  use  of 
fluorescent  lighting  to  produce  wall  designs  and  murals,  solely  as  an 
added  decoration  and,  secondly,  the  use  of  fluorescent  carpeting 
between  the  seats  and  along  the  aisles,  both  as  a  decoration  and,  more 
particularly,  as  a  safety  measure.  The  normal  low  power  tungsten 
lamps  attached  to  the  end  seats  at  intervals  along  the  aisles  are  not 
usually  sufficient  to  guide  people  to  seats  or  to  indicate  the  balcony 
stairways.  When  hand  torches  are  used  for  this  purpose  very  few 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS        429 

cinema  attendants  are  capable  of  illuminating  the  aisles  intelligently 
and,  in  fact,  usually  succeed  in  temporarily  blinding  not  only  the  new 
patrons  but  also  those  who  are  seated  in  the  near  vicinity.  It  is  therefore 
most  likely  that  this  new  medium  will  be  quite  as  useful  as  it  is  pleasing 
in  appearance. 

Since,  with  continual  use,  the  carpet  may  become  coated  with  dirt,  and 
presumably  the  fluorescent  design  would  then  be  obscured,  it  is  necessary 
to  restrict  the  use  of  such  material  to  that  part  of  the  cinema  which  is 
within  the  auditorium  and  to  provide  sufficient  carpeting  of  the  normal 
type  or,  in  wet  weather,  carpet  covering  between  the  auditorium  and  the 
main  entrances  in  order  to  collect  the  bulk  of  the  dirt  which  is  normally 
carried  in  from  the  street. 

(d)  Stereoscopic  Pictures  by  Coloured  Spectacles.  Before  leaving 
the  presentation,  or  theatre  aspects  of  cinematography,  it  is  necessary 
to  mention  one  other  technique  which,  although  it  cannot  be  classified 
as  recent  or  wholely  successful,  indicates  one  line  of  research  which 
has  engaged  the  attention  of  many  people.  As  is  well  known,  the 
impression  of  realism  would  be  greatly  increased  if  the  screen  picture 
could  be  given  the  third  dimension.  Efforts  to  produce  this  stereoscopic 
effect  have,  in  general,  been  made  in  three  main  fields  namely  (1)  by  the 
use  of  coloured  filters,  (2)  by  the  use  of  Pola  Screens  and,  (3)  by  steel 
wire  grids  mounted  in  front  of  the  screen. 

Present  day  two-dimensional  pictures  appear  to  be  'flat'  because  they 
are  photographed  from  one  position  whereas,  in  real  life,  scenes  are 
always  viewed  from  two  positions.  These  two  positions,  corresponding 
to  the  distance  between  the  two  eyes,  enable  us  to  estimate  the  relative 
separation  between  objects  located  at  different  distances  from  the  view- 
ing position.  This  fact  may  be  easily  proved  by  attempting  to  thread  a 
needle  with  cotton  when  both  are  held  at  arms'  length  and  one  eye  is 
closed.  Stereoscopic  pictures  are  accomplished  when  two  films  are 
taken  through  two  camera  lenses  which  are  separated  by  a  distance  equal 
to  the  separation  between  the  human  eyes.  Each  film  must  afterwards  be 
projected  so  that  only  that  film  which  was  taken  by  the  left  hand  camera 
will  be  seen  by  the  left  eye  whilst  that  film  which  was  taken  by  the  right 
hand  camera  will  be  seen  by  the  right  eye. 

One  of  the  earliest  methods  employed  to  obtain  this  requirement  was  to 
mount  two  cameras  at  the  required  separation  and,  therefore,  to  produce 
the  two  required  negatives.  These  negatives  were  printed  onto  separate 
positive  reels  which  were  then  projected  in  such  a  manner  that  the 
film  corresponding  to  that  taken  by  the  left  hand  camera  was  projected 
through  a  red  filter,  whilst  that  corresponding  to  the  right  hand  camera 
was  projected  through  a  green  filter.  The  audience  was  then  required 
to  wear  spectacles,  the  left  glass  of  which  carried  a  red  filter  whilst  the 
right  carried  a  green  filter. 

In  some  cases  the  actual  projection  arrangements  have  been  modified 
so  that  two  projectors  are  not  necessary  and  both  the  original  negatives 
are  combined  onto  one  positive  film.  This  combined  picture  is  then  pro- 
jected at  double  speed  through  one  machine  and  a  rotating  disc,  carrying 
alternate  red  and  green  filters,  is  then  mounted  in  front  of  the  projection 
lens  so  that  the  pictures  corresponding  to  the  view  points  are  again 
separated  and  each  is  caused  to  appear  only  to  the  corresponding  eye 


430 


PRINCIPLES   OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 


of  the  viewer.  In  some  cases  unusual  physical  reactions  have  been 
experienced  by  people  viewing  alternate  red  and  green  pictures,  first  by 
the  left  eye  and  then  by  the  right,  and  this  system  did  not  meet  with  any 
great  success. 

The  actual  separation  between  the  two  camera  lenses  is  not  always 
kept  at  the  normal  separation  between  the  eyes.  When  the  cameras 
are  focused  on  a  very  long  shot  it  is  normally  necessary  to  increase  the 
separation  from  2-5-inches  (6-35-cms)  up  to  as  much  as  4-inches 
(10-  16-cms)  and,  when  focused  down  to  a  big  close-up,  the  separation 
is  usually  decreased  to  the  order  of  1-5-inches  (38-10-cms).  Camera 
lenses  used  for  this  work  are  usually  specially  selected  to  ensure  that  they 
are  perfectly  matched  and  are  usually  so  mounted  that  the  separation 
between  the  two  viewing  points  may  be  quickly  adjusted  by  a  mechanism 
connected  with  the  normal  focusing  mount. 

The  view-finder  used  with  stereoscopic  cameras  should  also  be  of  the 
double-ocular  type,  so  that  each  lens  system  is  matched  with  the 
field  covered  by  the  corresponding  objective  and  also  to  ensure  that 
each  image  may  be  adjusted  to  correspond  exactly  with  the  field  covered 
by  the  respective  objective  lens. 

0)  Stereoscopic  Pictures  by  Polarised  Light.  The  unpopular  use 
of  filtered  beams  was  then  overcome  by  isolating  the  two  pictures  by 
polarised  light  which  will,  of  course,  maintain  the  normal  black-and- 
white  images  obtained  with  two-dimensional  photography.  Light  waves 
may  be  considered  to  radiate  in  all  directions  and  may  be  conveniently 
visualised  from  Diagram  'A',  Figure  181,  in  which  the  two  principal 
radiations,  at  right-angles  to  each  other,  are  shown.  Light  is  said  to  be 


Fig.  181. — The  polarisation  of  light  waves. 


GENERAL   TRENDS   AND   RECENT  INVENTIONS  431 

'polarised'  when  its  wave  form  only  occurs  in  one  plane.  If,  therefore, 
a  polarising  material  is  introduced  into  the  light  beam,  its  effect  upon  the 
wave-form  will  be  as  seen  in  Diagram  'B',  where  the  normal  radiation 
is  shown  on  the  left  and,  after  passing  through  the  polar  screen,  the  polar- 
ised radiation  is  shown  on  the  right.  Since  part  of  the  beam  is  absorbed 
it  should  be  obvious  that  the  brightness  of  a  beam  of  light  is  greater 
before  it  is  polarised  than  it  will  be  after  polarisation  -  this  difference  is 
as  much  as  50%. 

Polarising  screens  are  now  quite  easily  manufactured  by  a  process 
which  accurately  aligns  certain  crystals  in  such  a  manner  that  they  will 
all  remain  parallel  to  each  other  when  supported  in  a  suitable  gelatin. 
It  is  the  fact  that  the  crystals  are  all  parallel,  and  also  due  to  their  own 
properties,  that  only  light  waves  which  are  vibrating  in  a  direction 
parallel  to  the  crystals  will  be  able  to  pass  through  such  a  filter.  It  is 
important  to  note  that  it  is  the  rays  which  are  parallel  to  the  crystals 
which  are  transmitted.  Because  of  this  it  will  be  obvious  that  any  required 
radiation  may  be  selected  for  transmission,  merely  by  rotating  the  filter. 
This  condition  is  more  easily  seen  in  Diagram  'C,  Figure  181,  which 
shows  the  rays  transmitted  when  the  filter  is  rotated  to  two  positions. 
It  should  be  noted  that  the  crystals  in  the  filter  are  arranged  in  the 
direction  of  the  arrows,  that  is,  parallel  to  the  transmitted  waves. 
Assuming  once  more  that  two  positive  prints  have  been  made,  one  from 
each  camera,  it  is  now  possible  to  run  two  projectors,  separated  by  the 
required  distance,  and  to  place  a  polarising  screen  over  each  lens.  If  the 
polarising  screens  are  placed  at  right-angles  to  each  other  the  left-hand 
projector  may  be  caused  to  transmit  only  the  vertical  vibrations  whilst 
the  right-hand  projector  transmits  only  the  horizontal  vibrations.  Since 
both  vibrations  will  be  re-combined  on  reflection  from  the  screen  it 
is  once  more  necessary  for  the  observer  to  wear  spectacles  but,  in  this 
case,  the  glasses  are  replaced  by  small  polarising  screens  so  that  only  the 
vertical  vibrations  will  pass  to  the  left-hand  eye,  whilst  only  the  horizontal 
vibrations  will  be  permitted  to  pass  to  the  right-hand  eye. 
Some  very  excellent  stereoscopic  motion  pictures  have  been  produced 
in  this  manner,  and  those  made  with  either  Kodachrome  or  Technicolor 
films  have  been  most  convincing.  Although  many  people  now  wear 
spectacles  as  a  matter  of  everyday  practice,  it  seems  impossible  to 
persuade  an  audience  to  collect  their  'viewing  screens'  with  their 
tickets  and,  of  course,  to  return  them  again  after  the  performance. 
Even  assuming  that  the  supply  problem  could  be  overcome,  the  success 
of  the  performance  depends,  to  a  large  extent,  upon  the  observers 
keeping  their  eyes  in  a  fairly  horizontal  position.  If  the  head  is  tilted 
sideways  to  any  extent  the  plane  of  polarisation  is  altered  and  the 
stereoscopic  effect  is  thereby  destroyed.  This  criticism  is  not  very  serious, 
and  the  greatest  drawback  is  the  need  for  wearing  any  viewing  apparatus 
at  all. 

(/)  Stereoscopic  Pictures  by  Steel  Wire  Grills.  Because  of  these 
objections  a  further  system  has  been  introduced  which  makes  possible  the 
isolation  of  one  particular  picture  for  each  eye  without  the  need  for 
wearing  special  equipment.  The  basis  of  this  invention  consists  in  mount- 
ing a  large  number  of  vertical  steel  wires  infront  of  the  screen  and  in 
such  a  manner  that  the  spaces  between  the  wires  are  equal  in  size  to 


432 


PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


the  diameter  of  the  wires  themselves.  The  general  principles  of  this 
system  will  be  gathered  from  Figure  182,  in  which  it  is  assumed  that  the 
pictures  are  projected  from  the  rear  and  onto  translucent  screens. 
As  arranged  in  the  figure,  the  left  eye  will  see  alternate  parallel  strips  of 
picture  area,  interlaced  with  opaque  strips  of  equal  size,  in  such  a  manner 
that  strip  'L^  will  be  clearly  seen  whilst  'Ri'  will  be  hidden  from  the 
left  eye  by  the  steel  wire  'A'.  The  left  eye  will  also  see  strip  'L2\  but  will 
not  see  'R2'  since  wire  'B'  will  obstruct  the  path.  In  a  similar  manner, 
the  right  eye  will  be  able  to  see  strips  'Ri'  and  'R2'  but  will  be  prevented 
from  seeing  strips  *Li'  and  'L2'  by  the  steel  wires  4A'  and  'B'  respec- 
tively. The  number  of  wires  which  are  necessary  will  be  governed  by 
the  resolving  power  of  the  eye  at  the  distance  it  is  situated  from  the 
grill  but,  in  any  case,  such  a  number  must  never  be  more  than  half  the 
resolving  power  of  the  film.  This  is  obviously  necessary  since  the  screen 
picture  must  be  composed  of  alternate  strips,  corresponding  to  that 
negative  taken  at  the  left-hand  viewpoint,  interlaced  with  strips  corres- 
ponding to  that  negative  taken  at  the  right-hand  view  point.  Since  it 
will  be  necessary  to  keep  the  size  of  these  strips  to  some  practical 
dimension,  and  since  the  number  of  steel  wires  in  the  grill  will  be  equal 
to  half  the  total  number  of  strips  in  the  screen  picture,  the  actual 
number  of  wires  will  be  considerably  lower  than  the  theoretical  limit. 
At  first  sight  it  may  be  thought  that  such  an  arrangement  would  only 
produce  the  desired  effect  for  one  observer  at  one  selected  distance 
from  the  screen  -  it  may  be  thought  that,  in  any  but  the  selected  position, 
the  wires  would  obscure  the  left-hand  picture  from  the  left  eye  and, 
instead,  would  reveal  the  right-hand  picture  to  that  eye.  This  condition 
may  occur  in  any  position,  including  the  theoretically  perfect  position, 
since,  by  comparison  between  the  separation  of  the  wires  and  the  distance 
between  the  eyes,  it  will  be  obvious  that  only  a  slight  movement  of  the 
head  from  left  to  right  would  cause  the  pictures  to  be  presented  to  the 
wrong  eyes,  it  is  therefore  necessary  for  the  observers  to  move  either 
slightly  to  the  left  or  to  the  right  until  stereoscopic  vision  is  obtained. 
The  angle  through  which  such  vision  can  be  made  available,  or,  in 
other  words,  the  width  of  the  seating  area  in  the  auditorium,  is  necessarily 


Fig.  182. — Stereoscopic  pictures  by  wire  grids. 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND   RECENT  INVENTIONS  433 

smaller  than  is  possible  with  two-dimensional  or  other  types  of  three- 
dimensional  projection.  The  range  of  seating,  or  the  depth  in  terms 
of  straight  line  distances  from  the  screen,  is  also  less  than  that  possible 
with  ordinary  projection. 

The  actual  film,  which  is  projected  onto  a  translucent  screen  by  rear 
projection,  may  be  a  composite  positive,  carrying  alternate  strips,  made 
from  two  negatives,  printed  into  the  required  positions  by  a  special 
machine  containing  two  masks  or  gratings.  Alternatively,  the  picture 
may  be  built  up  from  two  images,  projected  from  two  machines  but,  in 
this  case,  it  will  be  necessary  to  fit  the  line  gratings  into  the  projector 
apertures.  The  two  systems  are  essentially  similar  in  that  the  gratings 
are  used  to  obscure  from  view  alternate  strips  from  one  image  and  to 
place,  in  the  spaces  so  formed,  similar  strips  from  the  second  image. 
Although  this  system  has  made  stereoscopic  motion  pictures  possible 
without  the  need  for  special  viewing  spectacles,  it  does  require  that 
the  observer  shall  remain  fairly  motionless  in  order  to  preserve  the 
correct  relationship  between  his  eyes,  the  grill  and  the  composite  screen 
image.  At  the  present  stage  of  development  it  is  difficult  to  say  which 
system  would  be  the  more  enjoyable. 

(g)  The  Telekinema.  One  of  the  most  outstanding  attempts  to  combine 
several  notable  developments  in  kinematography  within  one  'demon- 
stration centre'  was  to  be  found  in  the  Telekinema,  erected  on  the 
South  Bank  site  for  the  1951  Festival  of  Britain.  This  is  the  first  cinema 
in  the  world  to  be  designed  and  built  for  showing  both  films  and 
television  and  demonstrates  four  main  features  of  progress  in  the 
Industry. 

The  first,  concerning  what  might  be  termed  'straight'  film  projection, 
is  described  as  the  borderless  screen  or  the  'Halochrome  border'. 
This  is  a  development  perfected  by  the  British  Thomson-Houston 
Co.  Ltd.  -  whose  35-mm  SUPA  projectors  were  installed  in  the  Tele- 
kinema -  and  consists  in  projecting  illumination  onto  the  area  bordering 
the  actual  screen  so  that  the  surround  intensity  and  colour  is  always  at 
the  average  intensity  and  colour  of  the  picture  seen  on  the  screen.  The 
technique  is  said  to  ensure  optimum  presentation  at  all  times  since  the 
neutral  background  will  always  vary  in  such  a  manner  that  the  high- 
lights within  the  screen  picture  itself  will  remain  brighter  than  the 
surround  whilst  the  dark  shadow  areas  of  the  picture  will  be  darker 
than  the  surround. 

To  produce  this  effect  the  normal  projector  shutter  is  replaced  by 
one  having  a  highly  reflective  rear  surface  so  shaped  that  it  will  reflect 
the  light  beam  upwards  whilst  covering  the  standard  gate  aperture  during 
the  'pull-down'  portion  of  the  intermittent  cycle.  A  mirror  placed  above 
the  gate  then  reflects  the  beam  forwards  in  a  position  just  above  the 
normal  axis  of  projection  but  parallel  to  it.  After  passing  through  a 
heat  absorbing  filter  the  beam  is  directed  through  the  actual  film  which 
is  being  projected  and  is  thereby  varied  in  intensity  according  to  the 
density  and  colour  of  that  film.  The  beam  is  then  masked  to  produce 
the  required  'screen  surround'  shape  and  finally  projected  so  as  to 
fit  to  the  edges  of  the  normal  picture  which  is  being  projected  by  the 
standard  fashion  just  a  few  frames  below  this  special  head. 
The  second  development  to  be  seen  in  the  Telekinema  is  a  demonstration 

26 


434  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

of  stereoscopy  -  in  this  instance  made  possible  by  the  use  of  polarised 
light  in  the  manner  previously  described  in  this  chapter  and  so,  of 
course,  the  audience  was  obliged  to  wear  spectacles  containing  'polaroid' 
screens.  Two  projectors  were  used  -  one  carrying  the  picture  correspond- 
ing to  'left  eye  vision'  and  the  other  carrying  that  corresponding  to  'right 
eye  vision'.  Since  35-mm  projectors  are  of  considerable  size,  and  the 
operators  must  be  permitted  free  access  between  the  machines,  the 
separation  between  the  two  lenses  would  normally  be  too  great  and 
would  cause  sufficient  horizontal  'keystone  effect'  to  impair  the  illusion 
of  three  dimensional  vision.  Because  of  this  the  projector  lenses  were 
off-set  from  their  normal  axes  so  that  the  left-hand  lens  was  off-set  to 
the  right  and  vice  versa.  Each  machine  projected  pictures  at  the  rate 
of  24-frames  per  second  with  two  interruptions  per  frame  and  the 
mechanisms  were  interlocked  by  Selsyn  motors  in  the  manner  described 
in  Chapter  2. 

The  third  major  demonstration  was  of  stereophonic  sound.  This  was 
done  by  running  a  sound  film  in  synchronism  with  but  separately  from 
the  picture  film.  Employing  a  special  four-track  reproducing  machine 
the  film  was  made  to  carry  three  actual  sound  tracks  -  one  delivering 
sound  substantially  to  the  left  of  the  auditorium,  one  to  the  centre  and 
one  to  the  right -and  a  fourth  track,  known  as  the  control  track, 
whereby  the  volume  and  balance  between  the  remaining  three  tracks 
could  be  maintained.  Fifteen  speaker  units  were  located  throughout  the 
auditorium  -  three  behind  the  screen,  two  in  the  ceiling,  four  under  the 
overhanging  projection  room  and  reinforcing  sound  at  the  rear  stalls, 
two  on  the  back  wall  of  the  circle  and  four  on  the  back  wall  of  the  stalls. 
In  broad  principle  this  demonstration  was  therefore  similar  to  the 
Fantasound  system  described  earlier  in  this  Chapter. 
The  final  main  feature  was  the  projection  of  large  screen  television. 
It  will  be  realised  that  in  a  book  of  this  nature  one  cannot  do  more 
than  give  a  brief  outline  of  television  as  applied  to  kinematography  and 
we  must  therefore  assume  the  existance  of  a  sufficiently  bright  television 
image,  available  on  a  moderate  sized  cathode  ray  tube.  The  problem 
then,  so  far  as  kinematography  is  concerned,  is  one  of  projecting  that 
image  to  fill  a  large  screen  with  reasonable  brilliance  and  sharpness. 
The  apparatus  used  for  this  purpose  was  the  'Cintel'  projector  manu- 
factured by  Cinema-Television,  Ltd. 

In  this  machine  the  cathode  ray  tube  faces  away  from  the  projection 
screen  and  the  light  emitted  by  it  is  reflected  by  a  large  spherical  mirror 
27-inches  in  diameter.  Since  such  mirrors  always  suffer  from  spherical 
aberration  -  that  is,  the  red  rays  from  the  edges  of  the  mirror  come  to  a 
focus  at  a  different  plane  to  those  from  the  centre  -  it  is  necessary  to 
correct  this  by  employing  a  'Schmidt'  lens  or  correcting  plate.  A 
schmidt  lens  is  optically  ground  in  such  a  manner  that  it  will  correct 
the  aberrations  of  the  mirror  and,  in  this  machine,  was  18-inches  in 
diameter.  The  whole  system  had  an  effective  aperture  of  f/114. 
Unfortunately,  the  combination  of  mirror  and  correcting  plate  has  to 
remain  as  a  'fixed  focus'  projector  -  in  this  case  with  a  throw  of 
approximately  40-feet. 

Apart  from  these  four  main  features  the  Telekinema  was  also  capable 
of  projecting  16-mm  films  and,  as  a  feature  of  the  architecture  -  made 
possible  due  to  relaxed  fire  regulations  with  the  introduction  of  safety 


GENERAL  TRENDS   AND   RECENT  INVENTIONS  435 

film  base  -  one  wall  of  the  projection  box  consisted  of  a  plate  glass 
panel  through  which  visitors  could  see  the  apparatus  under  working 
conditions. 

(3)  Trick  Photography 

(a)  The  Dunning  Process.  The  next  branch  of  the  Industry  in  which 
progress  has  been  made  very  rapidly  may  be  roughly  classified  as  The 
Camera  Department',  but,  more  particularly,  the  'Special  Effects'  or 
trick  photography  section  of  that  Department.  Here  again,  it  is  only 
possible  to  discuss  the  basic  principles  behind  a  relatively  few  processes, 
the  first  of  which  is  known  as  the  'Dunning  Process'  of  superimposition. 
This  process  is  intended  for  use  in  black-and-white  film  production  and 
is  not  normally  suitable  for  use  with  colour  films  since,  as  we  shall  see, 
it  employs  coloured  images  to  act  as  filters  when  one  scene  is  to  be 
superimposed  upon  another. 

The  process  will  be  more  clearly  understood  by  following  the  pro- 
duction of  a  specific  scene.  Let  us  assume  that  it  is  required  to  show  on 
the  screen  a  pair  of  grey  flannel  trousers  walking  about  in  the  park  and, 
apparently,  housing  an  invisible  body !  The  first  step  towards  this  scene 
is  to  take  a  normal  tracking  shot  through  the  park  and  along  the  course 
which  the  'trousers'  are  to  follow -but  without  anybody  actually 
walking  in  the  scene.  This  scene  is  then  printed  to  a  positive  and  the 
positive  is  then  bleached  and  subsequently  dyed  yellow  so  that,  instead 
of  a  silver  image  of  the  scene,  a  yellow  image  without  any  silver  deposit 
is  obtained. 

It  is  now  important  to  realise  that,  if  this  scene  is  viewed  by  any  light 
except  yellow,  an  image  will  be  detected  in  just  the  same  manner  as 
would  exist  if  the  silver  deposits  were  present.  However,  when  this  scene 
is  viewed  by  a  light  which  is  exactly  similar  in  colour  to  the  dye  itself,  no 
image  will  be  detected  at  all  since,  of  course,  yellow  dye  will  not  act  as 
a  filter  to  yellow  fight.  (This  condition  is  only  absolutely  true  when  both 
dye  and  viewing  fight  are  accurately  matched  but,  for  all  practical 
purposes,  is  sufficiently  true  when  the  viewing  light  is  very  nearly  equal  in 
colour  to  the  dye  image).  Remembering  this  point  it  is  obvious  that  the 
yellow  image  will  be  detected  when  viewed  by  blue  light  and,  should  this 
yellow  image  be  mounted  infront  of  a  section  of  unexposed  panchromatic 
film,  a  print  of  the  yellow  dye  scene  would  be  produced  on  the  negative 
film  in  just  the  same  manner  as  if  a  silver  image  had  been  present 
instead  of  the  dye  image. 

The  next  step  is  to  prepare  a  stage  so  that  the  floor  and  back-cloth  are 
painted  blue  and  will,  therefore,  only  reflect  the  blue  component  when 
illuminated  by  white  light.  A  person  is  then  required  to  wear  the  most 
important  flannel  trousers  but  must  be  so  covered  elsewhere  that  the 
remainder  of  his  outline  reflects  blue  light  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  does  the  background.  The  background,  floor  and  man  are  then  all 
Dluminated  by  white  light,  but  the  man  is  also  illuminated  by  a  yellow 
light  which,  even  if  it  reached  the  blue  background,  would  only  reflect 
from  the  flannel  trousers.  It  will  now  be  apparent  that  all  the  blue  light, 
reflected  from  the  'scene-plus-man'  will  act  as  a  'printing  light'  when  the 
dyed  positive  of  the  exterior  scene  is  threaded  in  the  camera  and  in  front 
of  and  in  contact  with  a  roll  of  panchromatic  film  stock. 
However,  it  will  be  realised  that,  since  the  trousers  are  merely  reflecting 


436  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

yellow  light,  two  effects  will  take  place.  Firstly,  those  parts  of  the  yellow 
dyed  exterior  scene  onto  which  the  yellow  light  from  the  trousers  is 
focused  will  not  be  printed  at  all.  This  is  because  the  yellow  dye  image  is 
unable  to  modify  the  yellow  light  reflected  from  the  trousers.  However, 
since  the  yellow  light  from  the  trousers  varies  in  intensity  in  relation 
to  the  pattern  and  shape  of  the  trousers,  and,  since  such  light  will  pass 
unhindered  through  the  dyed  positive  film,  an  exposure  must  occur  in 
the  negative  film  behind  the  dyed  positive  and  will,  of  course,  correspond 
in  density  to  that  which  would  be  produced  if  the  picture  were  made 
directly  onto  a  panchromatic  film  but  with  a  yellow  sky  filter  placed 
over  the  taking  lens.  If  the  man  is  then  told  to  walk  about  in  a  predeter- 
mined manner,  the  final  result  will  be  a  composite  scene  of  the  required 
trousers,  walking  about  in  the  park,  to  which  the  actor,  (or  the  trousers) 
have  never  been  taken ! 

In  practice  it  is  necessary  to  select  the  yellow  lighting  on  the  set,  and 
also  the  yellow  dye  in  the  positive  film,  with  very  great  care.  It  is  also 
essential  that  no  required  section  of  the  studio  action  shall  reflect  the 
blue  component  of  the  lighting.  If,  due  to  an  oversight,  an  actor  wears 
a  blue  scarf  around  his  throat,  the  composite  shot  will  show  a  body 
and  a  head  going  through  the  required  motions,  but  minus  any  visible 
link  between  the  two !  Since  the  process  places  limitations  upon  the  cloth- 
ing and  make-up  which  may  be  used,  and  also  since,  in  this  form,  the 
process  is  not  suitable  for  use  with  colour  films,  its  applications  are 
perhaps  rather  more  restricted  than  may  at  first  be  realised  and,  in 
consequence,  other  systems  must  also  be  considered. 

(b)  The  Travelling  Matt.  A  system  which  will  accomplish  all  that  is 
possible  with  the  Dunning  Process,  and  which  may  also  be  used  with 
colour  films,  is  known  as  the  'Travelling  Matt'.  This  method  depends, 
to  a  large  extent,  for  its  success  upon  the  accurate  registration  of  several 
films  within  one  mechanism  and  during  several  printing  operations. 
Because  of  this  it  is  now  general  practice  to  produce  such  shots  on  the 
Optical  Printing  Machine  and  so  to  avoid  running  two  or  more  films 
in  contact  and  through  the  camera  gate. 

As  an  example,  let  us  consider  the  production  of  a  typical  matt  shot, 
say,  the  well-known  magic  carpet  scene  as  used  in  the  Technicolor 
production  'The  Thief  of  Baghdad'.  Here  once  more,  the  first  operation 
is  to  photograph  the  background  over  which  the  carpet  is  going  to 
fly  but  not  indicating  in  any  way  the  course  it  will  take.  From  this 
negative  is  made  a  correctly  exposed  master  positive  copy.  The  next 
operation  is  to  photograph  the  carpet  and  its  passengers  against  a  black 
background  and,  from  the  negative  of  this  shot,  a  second  correctly 
exposed  master  positive  copy  is  made. 

From  the  negative  of  the  carpet  shot  a  very  contrasty  print  is  then  made 
and,  from  this  print  is  made  a  still  more  contrasty  duplicate  negative. 
This  reprinting  from  duplicate  negatives  back  again  to  positive  copies 
is  continued  and,  at  each  step,  the  contrast  is  increased  until,  eventually, 
a  duplicate  negative  exists  in  which  the  carpet  and  passengers  appear 
as  a  solid  black  area  surrounded  by  absolutely  transparent  film.  The 
final  positive  copy  must  also  be  of  such  high  contrast  that  the  carpet  and 
the  passengers  appear  as  a  perfectly  clear  area,  surrounded  by  absolutely 
opaque  film. 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS        437 

A  new  length  of  negative  film  is  then  threaded  into  the  camera  head  of 
the  Optical  Printer  and  together  with  it  is  loaded  the  final  contrasty 
duplicate  negative  (that  is,  the  film  in  which  the  carpet  is  absolutely 
black  and  the  background  is  transparent).  The  original  correctly 
exposed  master  positive  of  the  background  scene  is  then  threaded  in  the 
printing  head  of  the  machine  and  the  optical  system  is  adjusted  to  give  a 
one-to-one  copy.  As  the  printer  goes  into  operation  the  background 
will  only  be  exposed  through  the  contrasty  matt  and  only  over  those 
areas  of  the  new  duplicate  negative  stock  which  are  not  covered  by  the 
opaque  area  in  that  matt  and  which,  of  course,  correspond  to  the 
original  picture  of  the  magic  carpet. 

The  correctly  exposed  master  positive  of  the  background  scene  is  then 
removed  from  the  printing  head  and  is  replaced  by  the  original  correctly 
exposed  master  positive  of  the  carpet  and  its  passengers.  The  composite 
duplicate  negative  which  is  in  the  course  of  production  is  then  rewound 
and  is  threaded  through  the  machine  in  contact  with  the  final  contrasty 
positive  copy  of  the  carpet  shot  (that  is,  the  film  in  which  the  carpet 
is  perfectly  transparent  but  the  background  is  absolutely  opaque). 
This  opaque  background  will  now  protect  those  areas  of  the  new  com- 
posite duplicate  negative  which  have  been  previously  exposed.  The 
transparent  'window'  in  this  new  matt  will  now  reveal  those  unexposed 
sections  of  the  new  duplicate  and  onto  which  may  be  printed  the  correctly 
exposed  images  of  the  carpet  and  its  passengers. 
Since  the  scene  is  to  be  produced  in  Technicolor  it  will  be  apparent  that 
a  Technicolor  camera  head  must  be  used  in  the  Optical  Printer  and, 
since  this  colour  process  requires  two  film  gates,  one  to  contain  a  single 
film  and  the  other  a  bi-pack,  it  is  more  usual  to  thread  the  travelling 
matts  in  contact  with  the  correctly  exposed  prints  in  the  head  at  the 
opposite  end  of  the  machine.  Obviously,  it  is  necessary  to  very  carefully 
mark  the  'start'  frame  on  each  negative,  matt,  positive  copy  and  final 
composite  negative,  to  ensure  accurate  synchronisation. 
Hie  success  of  this  process  is  largely  controlled  by  the  accuracy  of  the 
mechanism  and  also  of  the  film  perforations.  It  is  usual  to  find  a  very 
narrow  black  fringe  around  the  edge  of  the  composite  picture  but,  in- 
stead of  reducing  the  effect,  this  is  thought  by  many  to  improve  the 
appearance  and  to  add  to  the  illusion  by  causing  the  centre  of  interest 
to  stand  out  in  relief. 

(c)  The  Addition  of  Clouds  to  Exterior  Shots.  A  very  recent  process 
has  been  introduced  to  provide  clouds  in  exterior  scenes  which  must  be 
'taken'  on  a  cloudless  day.  Such  work  is  mainly  of  interest  to  the 
American  Studios,  where  weeks  of  cloudless  sky  are  not  uncommon. 
The  system  consists  essentially  of  an  extended  matt  box,  located  some 
18-inches  (45-7-cms)  infront  of  the  camera  lens,  and  capable  of  holding 
a  glass  plate  of  suitable  dimensions.  The  glass  plate  carries  a  positive 
photographic  record  of  a  suitable  cloud  formation,  located  in  the  upper 
section  of  the  area,  and  transparent  glass  at  the  lower  section.  Obviously, 
the  clouds  do  not  finish  in  an  abrupt  line  and  it  is  also  necessary  so  to 
mount  the  transparency  that  the  original  horizontal  plane,  which 
should  be  indicated  on  the  edge  of  the  plate,  is  lined  up  with  the  true 
horizon  of  the  scene  which  is  to  be  photographed.  The  clouds  in  the 
transparency  will  be  printed  onto  the  camera  negative  by  the  light  from 


438  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

the  clear  sky  and  will  therefore  appear  as  densities  in  the  composite 
negative. 

Should  a  building  or  a  steeple  extend  above  the  sky-line  the  'printing 
light'  coming  from  the  sky  will  be  obscured  over  that  area  representing 
the  building,  and  only  the  light  surrounding  this  building  will  pass 
through  the  glass  plate.  It  will  be  realised  that  buildings  at  such  a 
distance  will  photograph  as  black  solid  shapes  in  any  event  but,  should 
the  buildings  be  somewhat  nearer  to  the  camera,  and  consequently 
reflect  a  considerable  amount  of  light,  it  will  then  be  necessary  to  select 
particular  cloud  'stills'  in  which  suitable  gaps  occur  in  the  formations 
and  through  which  the  light  reflected  from  such  buildings  may  pass. 
Where  big  close-ups  are  cut  in  with  long  shots  it  is  not  only  necessary 
to  prepare  a  glass  'still'  with  a  suitably  large  aperture  in  the  cloud  forma- 
tion, but  also  to  match  the  formation  with  that  shown  in  the  long-shot. 
This  is  usually  possible  by  making  an  enlargement  of  the  selected  long- 
shot  clouds  and  to  use  this  when  the  close-up  scene  is  shot.  If  the  camera 
is  required  to  record  a  'panning'  shot  it  is  necessary  to  mount  the  cloud 
'still'  separately  from  the  camera  so  that  the  clouds  will  appear  to  pass 
in  front  of  the  lens  as  the  camera  swings  around.  Under  these  conditions 
it  is  essential  that  the  perspective  of  the  shot  shall  be  maintained  in 
keeping  with  the  cloud  formation,  and  also  that  the  clouds  shall  be 
printed  onto  flexible  film  support  since  it  will  be  necessary  to  mount  the 
film  in  a  circular  path,  at  a  radius  from  the  camera  lens. 
To  obtain  the  appearance  of  reasonably  sharp  clouds  it  is  necessary  to 
operate  at  camera  lens  apertures  in  the  neighbourhood  of  f/16,  when 
it  is  found  that  the  cloud  boundaries  are  only  slightly  more  'woolly' 
than  in  the  original  glass  or  film  negative. 

(4)  Special  Equipment 

(a)  Coated  Lenses.  Of  the  developments  made  in  the  fields  of  Optics 
one  which  can  in  no  way  be  classified  as  a  modern  invention  deserves 
mention  since  it  has  recently  attracted  much  attention.  This  development, 
concerning  the  increased  transmission  and  picture  contrast  obtained 
when  a  coating  is  applied  to  lenses  at  all  the  air-glass  surfaces,  was 
observed  by  H.  Dennis  Taylor  approximately  50  years  ago.  At  that  time 
lenses  were  considered  to  be  inferior  if  their  surfaces  became  tarnished 
but  Taylor  discovered  that,  quite  apart  from  being  inferior,  the  amount 
of  light  transmitted  by  such  lenses  was  greater  than  that  obtained  with 
similar  lenses  which  had  not  become  tarnished.  Taylor  then  experimented 
to  produce  an  artificial  tarnish  by  chemical  action  and  with  the  hope  of 
obtaining  this  higher  efficiency.  However,  it  was  found  that,  at  that  time 
only  a  limited  number  of  kinds  of  glass  could  be  so  treated. 
More  recently  Dr.  J.  Strong,  of  the  California  Institute  of  Technology, 
has  succeeded  in  coating  lenses  by  a  physical  rather  than  a  chemical 
process  and,  therefore,  such  coatings  may  be  removed  if  desired  and  will 
leave  the  lens  in  its  previous  condition.  Dr.  Strong  showed  that,  theo- 
retically, a  film  or  coating  of  a  thickness  equal  to  one-quarter  the  wave- 
length of  the  incident  light  will  produce  the  maximum  increase  in  the 
amount  of  light  transmitted  and  will  reduce  the  amount  of  light  reflected 
and  scattered  to  a  minimum.  He  also  showed  that  the  intensity  of  the 
reflected  light  will  only  be  at  a  minimum  when  the  refractive  index  of 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS        439 

the  coating  is  equal  to  the  square  root  of  the  refractive  index  of  the  glass 
to  which  it  is  applied.  After  allowing  for  the  required  hardness  and 
durability  of  the  coating  Dr.  Strong  was  able  to  produce  a  film  which 
eliminates  85  %  of  the  surface  reflections. 

The  selected  coating  was  applied  to  the  lens  surfaces  by  the  high  vacuum 
evaporation  method  and  could  be  deposited  in  a  porous  state  and  so 
permit  the  air  to  penetrate  it.  The  final  coating  therefore  produced  an 
effective  refractive  index  which  was  the  average  of  the  index  of  the  coat- 
ing material  and  that  of  the  air  contained  within  it.  By  this  method  he  was 
able  to  reduce  the  reflectivity  of  plate  glass  from  4  %  down  to  0  •  6  %  and, 
if  such  plate  was  treated  on  both  sides,  this  produced  an  increase  in 
light  transmission  from  92  up  to  99  per  cent. 

Several  systems  have  been  invented  for  applying  such  very  minute 
coatings  to  glass  surfaces  and  a  number  of  different  coatings  have 
also  been  developed.  It  will  be  apparent  that  the  increase  in  light 
transmitting  efficiency  depends,  amongst  other  considerations,  upon 
the  number  of  air-to-glass  surfaces  within  the  lens  since  losses  by 
reflection  occur  at  each  surface.  With  lenses  containing  six  or  eight 
surfaces  it  is  quite  common  to  obtain  an  increase  in  transmission  of  as 
much  as  30  %  which,  in  terms  of  the  ultimate  printing  conditions  from 
the  negative  to  the  positive,  usually  means  a  difference  of  between  5 
and  6  printer  lights  lower  than  would  normally  be  employed. 
Such  improvements  mean  that  certain  previously  impossible  shots 
under  poor  lighting  conditions  are  made  available,  and  that  the  detail  in 
the  shadow  of  all  such  shots  will  be  increased  due  to  the  increase  in 
contrast  brought  about  by  the  reduction  in  light  scatter  within  the  lens 
system.  Similar  improvements  are  also  noticed  with  projection  lenses 
and  one  case  has  been  recorded  where  a  lens  having  eight  surfaces 
produced  an  increase  of  40%  in  screen  brightness  after  a  coating  had 
been  applied. 

(b)  The  Acme-Dunn  Optical  Printer.  A  recent  major  advance  in  the 
field  of  special  equipment  has  been  made  with  the  introduction  of  the 
Acme-Dunn  Optical  Printer.  This  machine  received  its  name  from 
L.  S.  Dunn,  the  designer,  and  the  Acme  Tool  Company,  of  Burbank, 
U.S.A.,  the  manufacturers.  The  entire  machine  is  designed  as  a  self- 
contained  unit  and  contains  a  precision  projector  mechanism  and 
a  Bell  &  Howell  type  camera  unit.  The  projector  fitted  is  normally  of 
the  35-mm  type,  but  may  be  rapidly  interchanged  with  one  suitable  for 
projecting  16-mm  film.  An  auxiliary  projector  head,  at  right-angles  to 
the  main  apparatus,  may  be  used  to  produce  titling,  rocking  or  rotating 
effects  since  the  image  from  this  head  is  introduced  into  the  main  optical 
system  by  a  right-angle  prism. 

Provision  is  made  for  the  camera  to  be  automatically  tracked  forward 
or  away  from  the  projector  head  and,  during  such  motion,  sharp  focus 
may  be  automatically  maintained.  The  normal  effects  such  as  dissolves, 
wipe-offs,  reverse  action  and  stop-motion  may  all  be  produced  by  this 
machine,  as  also  may  the  following  more  unusual  effects:  -  Auto- 
matically controlled  'dolly'  or  'zoom'  shots  at  any  of  a  very  wide  range 
of  speeds;  horizontal  or  vertical  frame  'slide-off'  effects;  wipes,  moving 
in  any  direction  and  operating  at  any  speed;  enlargement  from  16-mm 
to  35-mm  and,  by  a  special  frame  combination  drive,  any  16-mm 


440  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

Kodachrome  film,  originally  shot  at  16  frames  per  second,  may  be 
enlarged  to  35-mm  colour  at  the  normal  24  frames  per  second  and  printed 
onto  successive  three-colour  separation  negatives. 
The  more  normal  features  of  this  machine  are  as  follows: -four 
speeds  are  available  and  may  be  used  in  either  the  forward  or  reverse 
direction;  these  are  10,  20,  30  and  60  feet  (305,  610,  9-15  and  18-30 
metres)  of  35-mm  film  per  minute;  provision  either  to  automatically 
stop  the  camera  head  and  to  maintain  the  projector  head  operating  for 
any  pre-determined  film  length,  or  to  arrest  the  projection  head  and  to 
continue  the  camera  operating  under  similar  conditions  (this  provision 
makes  possible  the  inclusion  of  'fade-outs'  at  the  tail  of  shots  which 
would  normally  be  too  short  to  print  such  a  transition  and  for  which 
the  cameraman  may  not  have  previously  made  adequate  allowance); 
vertical  and  horizontal  adjustments  to  all  lenses  are  made  by  precision 
attachments,  adjusted  to  readings  obtained  with  dial  indicators.  The 
lenses  are  not  solidly  attached  to  the  camera  or  projector  mechanisms 
and  may,  therefore,  be  moved  without  disturbing  the  general  set-up. 
Focusing  and  frame- viewing  is  accomplished  by  sliding  prisms  between 
the  film  and  the  lenses  and  so  directing  the  image  to  ground  glass 
screens,  housed  within  castings  which  also  support  viewing  eyepieces. 
The  normal  printer  illumination  is  from  a  1,000  Watt  incandescent 
lamp,  cooled  by  a  forced  air-draft  from  below  the  lamphouse.  When 
special  effects  are  produced  by  manual  control  an  audible  timer  is 
available  which  will  sound  a  warning  at  any  pre-determined  interval 
up  to  a  frequency  of  once  every  frame.  Such  effects  are  also  assisted  by 
the  inclusion  of  three  footage  counters,  one  at  the  projection  head,  a 
second  at  the  camera  head  -  which  may  be  pre-set  at  the  end  of  each 
scene  -  and  a  third  which  record  the  cumulative  footage  passed  through 
the  camera  mechanism. 

At  the  time  at  which  this  machine  was  first  announced  by  L.  S. 
Dunn  in  his  paper  to  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers,  April 
1944,  these  machines  were  being  made  only  for  departments  of  the 
U.S.  Government  and,  as  yet,  no  report  of  their  use  in  major  studio 
productions  has  been  made. 

General  Conclusions 

In  conclusion  it  must  be  pointed  out  that  the  foregoing  very  brief 
descriptions  of  modern  processes  and  equipment  is  neither  intended 
to  be  indicative  of  the  very  latest  developments  or,  necessarily,  of 
the  most  useful  advances  which  have  been  made  throughout  the 
Industry.  However,  two  very  healthy  signs  are  indicated  by  this 
review;  firstly,  that  progress  in  all  directions  is  being  constantly 
made  and,  secondly,  that  the  ever  increasing  variety  of  arts  and 
sciences  which  are  being  usefully  applied  as  a  whole  are  maintain- 
ing the  policy  of  the  Industry  to  raise  the  quality  of  the  final  talking 
picture. 

With  these  thoughts  in  mind,  and  also  remembering  the  great 
advances  which  have  already  been  made  in  the  field  of  Television, 
it  is  quite  impossible,  and  most  likely  dangerous  to  attempt  to 


GENERAL  TRENDS  AND  RECENT  INVENTIONS        441 

predict  the  position  which  may  exist,  or  the  further  improvements 
which  may  be  made,  within  such  a  relatively  short  period  as,  say, 
the  next  five  years.  Much  speculation  has  been  made  on  the  quest- 
ion of  whether  Television  will  ultimately  gain  preference  over  the 
Talking  Picture  and  yet,  in  the  light  of  past  experience,  there  seems 
no  fundamental  reason  to  doubt  the  issue.  Quite  apart  from  the 
atmosphere  of  collective  entertainment  (which  does  not  exist  with 
the  home  television  receiver),  two  earlier  examples  of  similar 
situations  indicate  the  error  of  these  thoughts.  In  the  first  case,  the 
introduction  of  radio  programmes  was  thought  to  indicate  the 
end  of  the  gramophone  and,  in  the  second  case,  the  introduction 
of  the  motion  picture  was  expected  to  close  down  the  theatres. 
As  we  know,  neither  of  these  possibilities  took  place  and  it  would 
therefore  seem  reasonable  to  suggest  that  there  is  room  for  still 
another  form  of  entertainment  before  any  of  those  already  in 
existence  will  be  completely  discarded. 

The  more  likely  use  of  television  would  be  in  radiating  one  central 
film  programme  to  many  houses,  fitted  with  large  screen  television 
receivers,  and  so  effecting  a  saving  in  film,  projection  equipment 
and,  possibly,  the  number  of  operators  required  to  run  the  new 
equipment.  However,  this  would  seem  to  be  the  most  that  can  be 
forseen  at  the  moment  since  the  nature  of  present-day  television 
equipment  does  not  allow  for  the  immediate  radiation  of  play  or 
film  stories  with  the  many  camera  angles  and  transitional  effects 
which  are  now  expected  in  modern  film  entertainments. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


ABBREVIATIONS. 

Acad.  Mot.  Pict.  A.  &  Sc.    =     Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences. 
Amer.  Cine.  =     American  Cinematographer. 

Int.  Phot.  =     International  Photographer. 

J.B.K.S.  =     Journal  of  the  British  Kinematograph  Society. 

J.S.M.P.E.  =    Journal  of  the  Society  of  Motion  Picture 

Engineers. 
ACCESSORIES,  Camera.  -  see  under  Camera  Accessories. 
ACOUSTICS. 
Sound  Recording  -  see  under  Sound  Recording  Acoustics. 
Spectrum 
Sivian,  L.  J.,  Dunn,  H.K.,  and  White,  S.D.  'Absolute  Amplitudes  and  Spectra 
of  Certain  Musical  Instruments'.  J.  Acous.  Soc.  Amer.,  2.  (1931),  p.  330. 
Theatre  -  see  under  Theatre  Acoustics. 

AIR  CONDITIONING 

Lindsay,  D.  C.  'Air  Conditioning  as  Applied  in  Theatre  and  Film  Labora- 
tories'. J.S.M.P.E.  11,  30  (Aug,  1927),  p.  334. 

Simonds,  A.  H.,  and  Polderman,  L.  H.  'Air  Conditioning  in  Film  Labora- 
tories' J.S.M.P.E.  17,  4  (Oct.  1931),  p.  604. 

Holden,  E.  C.  'Silica  Gel  Air  Conditioning  for  Film  Processing'.  J.S.M.P.E. 
18,  4  (April),  1932),  p.  471. 

Murphy,  H.  C,  'Air  Filtration  in  the  Production  of  Motion  Pictures'  J.S.M.P.E. 
26,  6  (June,  1936),  p.  637. 

Patterson,  J.  C,  'Use  of  Silica  Gel  in  Air  Conditioning'  J.S.M.P.E.  27,  5 
(Nov.,  1936),  p.  545. 

Gitterman,  H.,  'A  New  Electrostatic  Air  Cleaner  and  Its  Applications  to  the 
Motion  Picture  Industry*  J.S.M.P.E.  39,  1  (July,  1942),  p.  70. 

AMPLIFICATION. 

Sound  Track  -  see  under  Sound  Track  Amplification. 

AUDITORIA 
Factors  Affecting  Sound  Quality  in  Theatres.  A.  Goodman,  J.S.M.P.E.,  Vol. 

37,  Nov.,  1941,  p.  510. 
Film  Problems  in  Theatre  Operation.    S.  Sumner,  J.S.M.P.E.,  Vol.  19.  Sept., 

1932,  p.  286. 
Motion  Picture  Auditorium  Lighting.  B.  Schlanger,  J.S.M.P.E.,  Vol.  34. 

Mar.  1940.  p.  259. 

BLACK  LIGHTING 
Black  Lighting  in  Theatre  Auditoriums.  H.  J.  Channon  and  F.  M.  Falge. 
J.S.M.P.E.,  Vol.  37,  Aug.  1941.  p.  197. 

442 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  443 

BOOKS  AND  GENERAL  REFERENCES 

Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences:  'Motion  Picture  Sound 

Engineering.'  D.  Van  Nostrand  &  Co.  (New  York),  1938. 
Mees,  C.  E.  K.,  The  Theory  of  the  Photographic  Process.'  Macmillan,  (New 

York),  1942. 
Hardy  and  Perrin:  'The  Principles  of  Optics,'  McGraw-Hill  Book  Co.  (New 

York  &  London),  1932. 
Eastman    Kodak    Company:    'Motion    Picture    Laboratory    Practice    and 

Characteristics  of  Eastman  Motion  Picture  Films.'  (Rochester),  1936. 
Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences:  'Recording  Sound  for  Motion 

Pictures.'  McGraw-Hill  Book  Co.  (New  York  and  London),  1931. 
Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers:  'The  Technique  of  Motion  Picture 

Production.'  Interscience  Publishers,  Inc.  (New  York),  1944. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.,  and  Matthews,  G.  E.:  'Photographic  Chemicals  and  Solutions.' 

American  Photographic  Publishing  Co.,  (Boston),  1939. 
Glossary  of  Technical  Terms  Used  in  the  Motion  Picture  Industry.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  17.  Nov.,  1931,  p.  819. 
Tasker,  H.  G.:  'The  Technique  of  Production  Sound  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  39.  Oct.,  1942.  p.  213. 
BUZZ  TRACK 
Kellogg,  E.  W.:  'A  Recorder  for  Making  Buzz-Track.'  J.S.M.P.E.,  Vol.  30. 

Feb.,  1938.  p.  150.  (See  also  under  'Test  Films'). 

CAMERAS 

Art  Reeves  Reflex  Motion  Picture  Camera.  A.  Reeves.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  44. 

June,  1945.  p.  436. 
Fearless  Silent  Super-Film  Camera.  (65  or  35-mm  film  width).  H.  Hall. 

Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  10,  Apr.,  1930.  p.  13. 
Twentieth-Century  Camera  &  Accessories.  D.  B.  Clarke  and  G.  Laube. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Jan.  1941.  p.  50. 
Wall  Motion  Picture  Camera.  H.  Griffin.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Oct.  1935.  p.  363. 
Warner  Brothers  New  Camera.  W.  Stull.  Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  1 1 .  Dec.  1930.  p.  1 1 . 
CAMERA  ACCESSORIES 
Background    Projection   for    Process    Cinematography.    G.    G.    Popovici. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  Feb.  1935.  p.  102. 
Development  of  two  follow-focus  Devices  for  use  in  Cinematography.  J.  T. 

Strohm  and  W.  G.  Hickler.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Oct.  1945.  p.  302. 
Positive  Vary-Focus  View-Finder  for  Motion  Picture  Cameras.  F.  G.  Back. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Dec.  1945.  p.  466. 
Scene-Slating  Attachment  for   Motion   Picture   Cameras.   F.  C.  Gilbert. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Apr.,  1941.   p.  355. 

CINEMATOGRAPH  CAMERAS 

General  -  see  under  Text  Books. 
CLASS  'B'  SOUND  RECORDING 

Dimmick,  G.  L.  and  Belar,  H.  'An  Improved  System  of  Noiseless  Recording*. 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  July,  1934.  p.  48. 

Bradshaw,  D.  Y.  'Production-Quality  Sound  with  Single-System  Portable 
Equipment.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Feb.  1941.  p.  180. 

Bloomberg,  D.  J.  and  Lootens,  C.  L.  'Class  B  Push-Pull  Recording  for 
Original  Negatives.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Dec.  1939.  p.  664. 

Cartwright,  C.  H.  and  Thompson,  W.  C,  'The  Class  A-B  Push-Pull  Record- 
ing System.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Sept.  1939.  p.  289. 


444  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

CLEANLINESS  AND  CONTROL  OF  SOLUTIONS 
Hickman,  K.  C.  D.  'Washing  Motion  Picture  Film.'  Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict. 

Eng.  Vol.  23.  Oct.  1925.  p.  62. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Ross.  J.  F.  'A  Method  of  Testing  for  the  Presence  of  Sodium 

Thiosulphate in  Motion  Picture  Films.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  April,  1930.  p.  419. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Matthews,  G.  E.  'Effect  of  the  Water  Supply  in  Processing 

Motion  Picture  Films.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  16.  April,  1931.  p.  437. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  'Uniformity  in  Photographic  Development.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

25.  Dec.,  1935.  p,  512. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  'Directional  Effects  in  Continuous  Film  Processing.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  18.  Feb.,  1932.  p.  207. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Waddell,  J.  H.  'Directional  Effects  in  Sound  Film  Process- 
ing.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Nov.  1933.  p.  351. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Ives,  C.  E.  'A  Replenishing  Solution  for  a  Motion  Picture 

Positive  Film  Developer.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Nov.,  1930.  p.  627. 
Dundon,  M.  L.,  Brown,  G.  H.,  and  Capstaff,  J.  G.  'A  Quick  Test  for  Determining 

the  Degree  of  Exhaustion  of  Developers.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  Apr.,  1930.  p.  389. 
Henn,  R.  W.  and  Crabtree,  J.  I.  'Calcium  Scums  and  Sludges  in  Photography.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  Dec.,  1944.  p.  436. 
COATED  LENSES 

Recent  Improvements   in   Non-Reflecting   Lens   Coatings.   W.   C.   Miller. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Sept.,  1941.  p.  265. 
Treatment  of  Camera  Lenses  with  Low-Reflecting  Films.  C.  H.  Cartwright. 

Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  21.  May,  1940.  p.  215. 

COLOUR 

General 
Colour.  H.  B.  Franklin.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Jul.,  1931.  p.  3. 
Processes  of  Photography  in  Natural  Colour.  G.  E.  Matthews.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  16.  Feb.,  1931.  p.  188. 
Measurement 
Colour  Densitometer  for  Subtractive  Processes.  R.  M.  Evans.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  31.  Oct.  1938.  p.  194. 
Fundametals  of  Colour  Measurement.  D.  L.  MacAdam.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 
31.  Oct.,  1938.  p.  343. 
Processes 

British  Dufaycolour  Film.  S.  H.  Geary.  J.B.K.S.  Vol.  2.  Jul.,  1939.  p.  185. 
Gasparcolour  comes  to  Hollywood.  A.  Wyckoff.  Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  22. 

Nov.,  1941.  p.  510. 
Kodachrome  Process  of  Amateur  Cinematography.  L.  D.  Mannes  and 

L.  Godowsky.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Jul.  1935.  p.  65 
Morgana  Colour  Process.  J.  A.  Dubray.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Nov.,  1933  p.  403. 
Multicolour  Process.  R.  M.  Otis.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Jul.  1931.  p.  5. 
Optical-Photographic   principles    of  the   Agfacolour   Process.    F.    Weil. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  20.  Apr.  1933.  p.  391. 
Technicolor  Process  of  Three-Colour  Cinematography.  J.  A.  Ball.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  25.  Aug.  1935.  p.  127. 
Processes  {Operation  of) 

Lighting  for  Technicolour  Motion  Pictures,  C.  W.  Handley.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  25.  Nov.  1935.  p.  423. 
Machine  Processing  of  16-mm  Ansco  Colour  Films.  J.  L.  Forrest.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  45.  Nov.,  1945.  p.  313. 
Processes  (Principles  of) — See  under  Text  Books. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  445 

COMPARISON   OF   DENSITY   AND   AREA   METHODS   OF   SOUND 
RECORDING. 

Kellogg,  E.  W.  'A  Comparison  of  Variable-Density  and  Variable-Width 
Systems.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Sept.,  1935.  p.  203. 

COMPRESSION 

Aalberg,  J.  O.  and  Stewart,  J.  G.  'Application  of  Non-Linear  Volume 
Characteristics  to  Dialog  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Sept.  1938.  p.  248. 

Miller,  B.  F.  'Elimination  of  Relative  Spectral  Energy  Distortion  in  Elect- 
ronic Compressors.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  39.  Nov.,  1942.  p.  317. 

CONSTANT  SPEED 
Kellogg,  E.  W.  'A  Review  of  the  Quest  for  Constant  Speed.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

28.  Apr.,  1937.  p.  337. 
Shea.  T.  E.  MacNair,  W.  A.  and  Subrizi,  A.  'Flutter  in  Sound  Recordings.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Nov.  1935.  p.  403 
Kellogg,  E.  W.  'A  New  Recorder  for  Variable-Area  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  15.  Nov.  1930.  p.  653. 
Cook,  E.  D.  'The  Technical  Aspects  of  the  High  Fidelity  Reproducer.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Oct.,  1935.  p.  289. 
Loomis,  F.  J.  and  Reynolds,  E.  W.  'New  Apparatus  -  A  New  High-Fidelity 

Sound  Head."  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Nov.,  1935.  p.  449. 
Drew,  R.  O.  and  Kellogg,  E.  W.  'Filtering  Factors  of  the  Magnetic  Drive.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  35.  Aug.,  1940.  p.  138. 
Chandler,  J.  S.  'Some  Theoretical  Considerations  in  the  Design  of  Sprockets  for 

Continuous  Film  Movement.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Aug.,  1941.  p.  164. 
Albershem,  W.  J.  and  MacKenzie,  D.  'Analysis  of  Sound- Film  Drives.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Nov.,  1941.  p.  452. 
Wente,  E.  C.  and  Muller,  A.  H.  'Internally  Damped  Rollers.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  37.  Oct.,  1941.  p.  406. 
Hopper,  F.  L.,  Manderfield,  E.C.  and  Scoville,  R.  R.  'A  Light-Weight  Sound 

Recording  System.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Oct.,  1939.  p.  449. 
Kellogg,  E.  W.  and  Morgan,  A.  R.  'Measurement  of  Speed  Fluctuations  in 

Sound  Recording  and  Reproducing  Equipment.'  J.  Acous.  Soc.  of  Amer. 

Vol.  7.  April,  1936.  p.  271. 
Scoville,  R.  R.  'A  Portable  Flutter-Measuring  Instrument.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

25.  Nov.,  1935.  p.  416. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  'Sound  Film  Printing -1.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Oct.,  1933. 

p.  294.  Part  2,  Vol.  22,  Feb.,  1934.  p.  98. 
See  also  under  'Sprocket-Hole  Modulation.' 

CROSS-MODULATION 

Baker,  J.  O.,  and  Robinson,  D.  H.  'Modulated  High-Frequency  Recording 

as  a  means  of  Determining  Conditions  for  Optimal  Processing.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  30.  Jan.,  1938.  p.  3. 
Cook,  E.  D.  'The  Aperture  Effect.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  June,  1930.  p.  650. 
Dimmick,  G.  L.  'High-Frequency  Response  from  Variable-Width  Records 

as  Affected  by  Exposure  and  Development.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Nov.  1931. 

p.  766. 
DENSITOMETERS 
Automatic  Recording  of  Photographic  Densities.  J.  G.  Frayne  and  G.  R. 

Crane.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Nov.,  1945.  p.  370. 
Densitometric  Method  of  Checking  the  Quality  of  Variable  Area  Prints. 

C.  R.  Daily  and  I.  M.  Chambers.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Oct.,  1939.  p.  398. 


446  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

DENSITOMETERS— continued 

Microdensitometer  as   a   Laboratory   Measuring   Tool.   W.    R.   Grehner. 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  Dec,  1934.  p.  318. 

Physical  Densitometer  for  Sound  Processing  Laboratories.   F.   L.  Leich. 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  Feb.,  1935.  p.  180. 

Precision  Integrating  Sphere  Densitometers.  J.  G.  Frayne  and  G.  R.  Crane. 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  35.  Aug.,  1940.  p.  184. 

Tuttle,  C.  and  Koerner,  A.  M.  'Standardization  of  Photographic  Densito- 
metry.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  29.  Dec,  1937.  p.  622. 

Frayne,  J.  G.  'The  Measurement  of  Photographic  Printing  Density.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  36.  June,  1941.  p.  622. 

Tuttle,  C.  and  McFarlane,  J.  W.  'The  Measurement  of  Density  in  Variable- 
Density  Sound-Film.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Sept.,  1930.  p.  345. 

White,  D.  R.  'A  Direct-Reading  Photoelectric  Densitometer.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  33.  Oct.  1939.  p.  403. 

Lindsay,  W.  W.  Jr.,  and  Wolfe.  W.  W.  'A  Wide-Range  Linear-Scale  Photo- 
electric Cell  Densitometer.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  28.  June,  1937.  p.  622. 

Tuttle,  C.  'The  Relation  between  Diffuse  and  Specular  Density.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  20.  Mar.,  1933.    p.  228. 

Eggert,  J.  and  Kuester,  A.  'Grain-Size  Determination  and  other  Applications 
of  the  Cailler  Effect.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  39.  Feb.,  1938.  p.  181. 
DENSITY 

Density  of  Sound  Track  -  see  Sound  Track  Density. 
DESIGN  OF  SPROCKETS 

See  under  'Sprockets.' 
DEVELOPERS 

Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Matthews,  G.  E.  'Photographic  Chemicals  and  Solutions.' 
Amer.  Photo.  Pub.  Co.  (Boston).  1939. 

Moyse,  H.  W.  and  White,  D.  R.  'Borax  Developer  Characteristics.'  Trans. 
Soc  Mot.  Pict.  Eng.  13.  May,  1929.  p.  445. 

Wilkinson,  J.  R.  'Motion  Picture  Laboratory  Practices.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  39. 
Sept.  1942.  p.  166. 
DEVELOPMENT  FILM 

Borax  Developer  Characteristics.  H.  W.  Moyse  and  D.  R.  White.  Amer.  Cine. 
Vol.  10.  Sept.,  1929.  p.  5. 

Directional  Effect  in  Machine  Development.  B.  C.  Sewell.  J.B.K.S.  Vol  3.  p.  84. 

Reduction  of  Development  Sprocket-Hole  Modulation.  M.  Leshing,  T.  Ingman 
and  K.  Pier.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  May,  1941.  p.  475. 

Effect  of  Aeration  on  Photographic  Properties  of  Developers.  J.  I.  Crabtree 
and  G.  W.  Schwingel.  Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  21.  June,  1940,  p.  253. 

Some  Properties  of  Fine-Grain  Motion  Picture  Film  Developers.  H.  L. 
Carlton  and  J.  I.  Crabtree.  Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  10.  Jul.,  1929.  p.  17. 

DIMENSIONAL  STANDARDS 
Revision  of  S.M.P.E.  Standards,  Proposed  for  Adoption  by  the  Society  of 

Motion  Picture  Engineers.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Mar.,  1938.  p.  249. 
See  also  under  'Test  Films.'  and  'Buzz  Tracks.' 
DIRECT  POSITIVES 
Dimmick,  G.  L.  and  Blaney,  A.  C.  'A  Direct  Positive  System  of  Sound  Record- 
ing.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.33.  Nov.  1939.  p.  479. 
Blaney,  A.  C.  'Notes  on  Operating  Experience  Using  the  Direct  Positive 
Push-Pull  Method  of  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  42.  May,  1944.  p.  279. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  447 

DRYING 

White,  D.  R.  'Drying  Conditions  and  Photographic  Density.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  19.  Oct.  1932.  p.  340. 

DUPLICATING 

Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Ives,  C.  E.  'Two  New  Films  for  Duplicating  Work.* 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  29.  Sept.,  1937.  p.  317. 

Roberts,  F.  W.  and  Taenzer,  E.  'Photographic  Duping  of  Variable-Area 
Processing.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  Jan.,  1940.  p  .26. 

Blaney,  A.  C.  and  Best  G.  M.  'Latest  Developments  in  Variable-Area  Process- 
ing.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  32.  Mar.,  1939.  p.  237. 

EQUIPMENT 

Processing  Equipment  -  See  under  'Processing  Equipment.* 
Recent  Inventions 
Davidge  Developing  Apparatus.  (No  author).  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  May, 

1935. 
Mechanical  and  Optical  Equipment  for  the  Stereophonic  Sound  Film 

System.  E.  C.  Wente,  R.  Biddulph,  L.  A.  Elmer  and  A.  B.  Anderson. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Oct.,  1941.  p.  353. 
Multiplane  Camera  Crane  for  Animation  Photography.  W.  E.  Garity  and 

W.  C.  McFadden.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Aug.,  1938.  p.  144. 
New  Acme-Dunn  Optical  Printer.  L.  G.  Dunn.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  42.  Apr., 
1944.  p.  204. 

FILM  BASE 

Historical  -  See  under  Historical  Surveys. 

FILM  CHARACTERISTICS 

Eastman  Kodak  Company:  'Motion  Picture  Films  for  Professional  Use.* 
(Rochester,  N.Y.).  1942. 

FILM  DEVELOPMENT 

See  under  Development  of  Film. 

FILM  FIXATION 
See  under  Fixation,  Film. 

FILM -PHYSICAL  PROPERTIES  OF 

See  under  Physical  Properties  of  Film. 

FILM  PROCESSING  (SOUND). 

See  under  Sound  Film  Processing. 

FILM  PROCESSING  (GENERAL) 
See  under  Text  Books. 

FILM  SHRINKAGE 
Maurer,  J.  A.  and  Bach,  W.  'The  Shrinkage  of  Acetate  Base  Motion  Picture 

Films.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  July,  1938.  p.  15. 
Calhoun,  J.  M.  'The  Physical  Properties  and  Dimensional  Behavior  of  Motion 
Picture  Film.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  Oct.,  1944.  p.  227. 

FILM  WEAR 
A  note  on  the  Projection  Life  of  Film.  D.  R.  White  and  C.  deMoos.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  41.  Oct.,  43.  p.  297. 
The  Projection  Life  of  Film.  R.  H.  Talbot.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Aug.,  1945. 

p.  78. 


448  PRINCIPLES   OF    CINEMATOGRAPHY 

FINE-GRAIN  FILMS 
Daily,  C.  R.  'Improvements  in  Sound  and  Picture  Release  through  the  use 

of  Fine-Grain  Films.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  Jan.  1940.  p.  12. 
Report  on  the  Adaption  of  Fine-Grain  Films  to  Variable-Density  Sound 

Technics.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  Jan.,  1940.  p.  3. 
Daily,  C.  R.  and  Chambers,  I.  M.  'Production  and  Release  Applications  of 

Fine-Grain  Films  for  Variable-Density  Sound  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

38.  Jan.,  1942.  p.  45. 
Wilkinson,  J.  R.  and  Eich,  F.  L.  'Laboratory  Modification  and  Procedure  in 

Connection  with  Fine-Grain  Release  Printing.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  38.  Jan., 

1942,  p.  56. 
Eastman  Kodak  Company:  'Motion  Picture  Films  for  Professional  Use.' 

(Rochester,  N.Y.).  1942 

FIXATION  -  FILM 

Some  Properties  of  Fixing  Baths.  J.  I.  Crabtree  and  H.  A.  Hartt.  Amer.  Cine. 
Vol.  10.  Sept.,  1929.  p.  3. 

The  Removal  of  Hypo  and  Silver  Salts  from  Photographic  Materials  as 
affected  by  the  Composition  of  the  Processing  Solutions.  J.  I.  Crabtree, 
G.  T.  Eaton  and  L.  E.  Muchler.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  41.  July,  1943.  p.  9. 

FOG 

Dundon,  M.  L.  and  Crabtree,  J.  I.  'The  Fogging  Properties  of  Developers.' 
Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict.  Eng.  12.  Sept.,      1928.  p.  1096. 

GENERAL  PRINCIPLES 

General  Principles  of  Cinematography  and  Historical  Surveys.  See  under 
Text  Books. 

GLOW-LAMP  SOUND  RECORDING 

Glow-Lamp  Sound  on  Film  Recording.  V.  T.  Braman.  Electronics.  June, 
1931.  p.  679. 

The  Glow-Lamp  Portable  Recording  Equipment.  D.  Canady.  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  21.  Dec,  1933.  p.  483. 

Tykocinski-Tykociner,  J.  'Photographic  Recording  and  Photo-Electric  Re- 
production of  Sound.'  Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict.  Eng.  16.  May,  1923.  p.  90. 

Dr.  Forest,  L.  'Pioneering  in  Talking  Pictures'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Jan.,  1941. 
p.  41. 

Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences:  'Motion  Picture  Sound 
Engineering.'  D.  Van  Nostrand  &  Co.  (New  York),   1938. 

GRAININESS 

Crabtree,  J.  I.  'Graininess  of  Motion  Picture  Film.'  Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict. 

Eng.  11.  July,  1927.  p.  77. 
Sandvik,  O.  'A  Study  of  Ground  Noise  in  the  Reproduction  of  Sound  by 

Photographic  Methods.'  Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict.  Eng.  12.  Sept.  1928.  p.  790. 
Jones,  L.  A.  and  Hardy,  A.  C.  'Graininess  in  Motion  Picture  Negatives  and 

Positives.'  Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict.  Eng.  14.  May,  1922.  p.  107. 
Sandvik,  O.,  Hall,  V.  C.  and  Grimwood,  W.  K.  'Further  Investigation  of 

Ground-Noise    in    Photographic  Emulsions.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  22.   Feb., 

1934.  p.  83. 
Goetz,  A.  and  Gould,  W.  O.  'The  Objective-Quantative  Determination  of  the 

Graininess  of  Photographic  Emulsions.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  29.  Nov.,  1937. 

p.  510. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  449 

GRAININESS— continued 
Goetz,  A.  and  Gould,  W.  O.,  and  Dember,  A.  'The  Objective  Measurement 
of  the  Graininess  of  Photographic  Emulsions.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  Mar., 

1940.  p.  279. 

Albersheim,  W.  J.  'Mathematical  Relations  between  Grain,  Background 

Noise  and  Characteristic  Curve  of  Sound-Film  Emulsions.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  29.  Oct.,  1937.  p.  417. 
Sandvik,  O.,  and  Grim  wood,  W.  K.  'An  Investigation  of  the  Influence  of 

the  Negative  and  Positive  Materials  on  Ground  Noise.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

35.  Aug.,  1940.  p.  126. 

GROUND-NOISE  REDUCTION. 
Townsend,  R.  H.,   McDowell,  H.  Jr.,  and  Clark,  L.  E.  'Ground-Noise 

Reduction.'  Reprint  No.  26,  Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences 

(Hollywood). 
Kellogg,  E.  W.  'Ground-Noise  Reduction  System.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Feb., 

1941.  p.  137. 

Silent,  H.  C,  and  Frayne,  J.  G.  'Western  Electric  Noiseless  Recording.* 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18.  May,  1932.  p.  551. 
Kreuzer,  B.  'Noise  Reduction  with  Variable-Area  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  16.  June,  1931.  p.  671. 
Scoville,  R.  R.  and  Bell,  W.  L.  'Design  and  use  of  Noise-Reduction  Bias 

Systems.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  38.  Feb.,  1942.  p.  125. 
Hansen,  E.  H.  and  Faulkner,  C.  W.  'Mechanical  Reversed  Bias  Light- Valve 

Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  26.  Feb.,  1936.  p.  117. 
Frayne,  J.  G.  'Noise-Reduction  Anticipation  Circuits.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43, 

Nov.,  1944.  p.  313. 

HIGH-FREQUENCY  LOSSES 

Cook,  E.  D.  'The  Aperture  Effect.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  June,  1930.  p.  650. 

Dimmick,  G.  L.  'High-Frequency  Response  from  Variable- Width  Records 
as  Affected  by  Exposure  and  Development.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Nov., 
1931.  p.  766. 

Foster,  D.  'The  Effect  of  Exposure  and  Development  on  the  Quality  of  Vari- 
able-Width Photographic  Sound  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Nov., 
1931.  p.  749. 

Loye,  D.  P.,  and  Morgan,  K.  F.  'Sound  Picture  Recording  and  Reproducing 
Characteristics.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  32.  June,  1939.  p.  631. 

HISTORICAL  SURVEYS 
Film  Base. 

History  of  Nitrocellulose  as  a  Film  Base.  E.  Theisen.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  20. 

Mar.,  1933.  p.  259. 
Manufacture  of  Motion  Picture  Film.  A.  E.  Amor.  J.B.K.S.  Vol.  1.  Oct., 
1938.  p.  188. 
The  Manufacture  of  Motion  Picture  Film.  E.  K.  Carver.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  28. 

June,  1937.  p.  5  94. 
Kinematography 
A  Brief  History  of  Kinematography.  W.  K.  L.  Dickson.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

21.  Dec.,  1933.  p.  435. 
Early  Stages  in  Kinematography.  C.  H.  Bothamley.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  20. 

Mar.,  1933.  p.  263. 
The  Depicting  of  Motion  prior  to  the  Advent  of  the  Screen.  E.  Theisen. 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  20.  Mar.,  1933.  p.  249. 

29 


450  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

ILLUMINATION 

Printer.  See  under  Printer  Dlumination. 

INTERMITTENT  MECHANISMS 

Calculation   of  Acceleration   in    Cam-Operated   Pull-Down   Mechanisms, 

E.  W.  Kellogg.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Aug.,  1945.  p.  143. 
Camera  Mechanisms  -  Ancient  and  Modern.  A.  S.  Newman.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  14.  May,  1930.  p.  534. 
Method  of  Measuring  Steadiness  of  Motion  Picture  Cameras.  M.  G.  Townsley. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  July,  1944.  p.  45. 
Present  and  Future  of  the  Kinematograph  Camera.  A.  S.  Newman.  J.B.K.S. 

Vol.  2.  July,  1939.  p.  143. 
Silent  Bell  &  Howell  High-Speed  Intermittent  Mechanism.  A.  S.  Howell  and 

J.  A.  Dubray.  Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  10.  June,  1929.  p.  3. 

INTERMODULATION  (MEASUREMENTS  OF  SOUND  DISTORTIONS) 

Meschter,  E.  'Some  Practical  Aspects  of  the  Intermodulation  Test.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  45.  Sept.,  1945.  p.  161. 

Sandvik,  O.  and  Hall,  V.  C.  'Wave-Form  Analysis  of  Variable-Density 
Sound  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  19.  Oct.,  1932.  p.  346. 

Frayne,  J.  G.,  and  Scoville,  R.  R.,  'Analysis  and  Measurement  of  Dis- 
tortion in  Variable-Density  Recordings.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  32.  June,  1939. 
p.  648. 

Sandvik,  O.,  Hall,  V.  C,  and  Streiffert,  J.  G.  'Wave-Form  Analysis  of  Vari- 
able-Width Sound  Records.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Oct.,  1933.  p.  323. 

IRREGULARITIES  IN  DENSITY. 
Ives,  C.  E.  and  Jensen,  E.  W.  'The  Effect  of  Developer  Agitation  on  Density 

Uniformity  and  Rate  of  Development.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Feb.,  1943.  p.   107. 
Ives,  C,  E.  and  Kunz,  C.  J.  'Solution  Agitation  by  Means  of  Compressed  Air.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  Apr.  1940.  p.  364. 
Leshing,  M.,  Ingman,  T.,  and  Pier,  K.  'Reduction  of  Development  Sprocket 

Hole  Modulation.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  May,  1941.  p.  475. 
Frayne,  J.  G.  and  Pagliarulo,  V.  'The  Influence  of  Sprocket  Holes  upon  the 

Development  of  Adjacent  Sound-Track  Areas.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  28.  Mar., 

1937.  p.  236. 
Grignon,  L.  D.  'Flicker  in  Motion  Pictures.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Sept.,  1939. 

p.  235. 

KERR  CELL  RECORDING 

Zworykin,  N.,  Lynn,  L.  B.,  and  Hanna,  C.  R.  'Kerr  Cell  Method  of  Recording 
Sound.'  Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict.  Eng.  12.  Sept.,  1928.  p.  748. 

KINEMATOGRAPHY  -  Historical  Surveys. 
See  under  Historical  Surveys. 

LEARNED  SOCIETIES 
Aims  of  The  British  Kinematograph  Society.  A.  G.  D.  West.  J.B.K.S.  Vol.  1. 

Oct.,  1938.  p.  155. 
American  Standards  and  their  place  in  the  Motion  Picture  Industry.  J.  W. 

McNair.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Feb.,  1941.  p.  113. 
Historical  Summary  of  Standardisation  in  the  S.M.P.E.    L.    A.    Jones, 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Oct.,  1933.  p.  280. 
The  Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers  -  Its  Aims  and  Accomplishments. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Publication.  New  York,  1930. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  451 

LENS  COATING 

Blodgett,  K.  'Use  of  Interference  to  Extinguish  Reflection  of  Light  from 

Glass.'  Phys.  Rev.  Vol.  55.  Second  Series.  (Feb.  15,  1939),  p.  391. 
Dimmick,  G.  L.  'A  New  Dichroic  Reflector  and  Its  Application  to  Photocell 

Monitoring  Systems."  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  38.  Jan.,  1942.  p.  36. 
Strong,  J.  'On  a  Method  of  Decreasing  the  Reflection  from  Non-Metallic 

Substances.'  J.  Opt.  Soc.  Amer.  Vol.  26.  Jan.,  1936.  p.  73. 
Cartwright,  C.  H.  and  Turner,  A.  F.  'Multiple  Films  of  High  Reflecting 

Power.'  Phys.  Rev.  Vol.  55.  June,  1939.  p.  1128. 
Miller,   W.  C  -  'Recent   Improvements    in    Non-Reflective   Lens    Coating. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Sept.,  1941.  p.  165. 

LIGHT  SCATTER  IN  EMULSIONS  AND  IMAGE  SPREAD 

Mees,  C.  E.  K.  'The  Theory  of  the  Photographic  Process.'  MacMillan  (New 
York)  1942. 

Jones,  L.  A.  and  Sandvik,  O.  'Photographic  Characteristics  of  Sound  Record- 
ing Films.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  Feb.,  1930.  p.  180. 

Dimmick,  G.  L.  'Improved  Resolution  in  Sound  Recording  and  Printing  by 
the  use  of  Ultra-Violet  Light.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  27.  Aug.,  1936.  p.  168. 

Sandvik,  O.,  Hall,  V.  C.  and  StreirTert,  J.  G.  'Wave-Form  Analysis  of  Variable- 
Density  Sound  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  19.  Oct.,  1932.  p.  346. 

Baker,  J.  O.,  and  Robinson,  D.  H.,  'Modulated  High-Frequency  Recording 
as  a  means  of  Determining  Conditions  for  Optimal  Processing.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  30.  Jan.,  1938.  p.  3. 

LIGHT  SOURCES 

Carlson,  F.  E.  'Properties  of  Lamps  and  Optical  Systems  for  Sound  Repro- 
duction.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  July,  1939.  p.  80. 

Buttolph,  L.  J.  'Mercury  Arcs  of  Increased  Brightness  and  Efficiency.' 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  28.  Jan.,  1937.  p.  43. 

Noel,  E.  B.  and  Farnham,  R.  E.  'A  Water-Cooled  Quartz  Mercury  Arc' 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Sept.,  1938.  p.  221. 

Herriott,  W.  and  Foster,  L.  V.  'Recent  Optical  Improvements  in  Sound-Film 
Recording  Equipment.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  Sept.,  1934.  p.  167. 

LIGHT  VALVES 

Sound  Recording  with  the  Light  Valve.  MacKenzie,  D.  Trans.  Soc.  Mot. 

Pict.  Eng.  12.  Sept.,  1928.  p.  730. 
Recent  Optical  Improvements  in  Sound-Film  Recording  Equipment.  J.S.M.P.E 

Vol.  23.  Sept.,  1934.  p.  167. 
Light  Valves  for  the  Stereophonic  Sound  Film  System.  E.  C.  Wente  and 

R.  Biddolph.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Oct.,  1941.  p.  397. 
Permanent  Magnet  Four-Ribbon  Light  Valve  for  Portable  Push-Pull  Record- 
ings, E.  C.  Manderfield.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Sept.,  1938.  p.  315. 
Principles  of  the  Light  Valve.  T.  E.  Shea,  W.  Herriott  and  W.  R.  Goehner. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18.  June,  1932.  p.  697. 
Push-Pull  Recording  with  the  Light  Valve,  J.  G.  Frayne  and  H.  C.  Silent. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  July,  1938.  p.  46. 
Recent  Contributions  to  the    Light   Valve  Technique.  O.  O.    Ciccarini. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Sept.,  1931.  p.  305. 
Straight  Line  and  Toe  Recording  with  the  Light  Valve.  D.  MacKenzie. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Aug.,  1931.  p.  172. 
Visual  Light  Valve  Checking  Device.  J.  P.  Corcoran.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  42. 

May,  1944.  p.  283. 


452  PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

LOUDSPEAKERS 
An  Improved  Loudspeaker  System  for  Theatres.  J.  B.  Lancing  and  J.  K.  Hilli- 

ard.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Nov.,  1945.  p.  339. 
Frequency  Modulation  Distortion  in  Loudspeakers.  G.  L.  Beers  and  H.  Belar. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  40.  Apr.,  1943.  p.  207. 
Piezo-electric  Loudspeakers.  A.  L.  Williams.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  Feb.  1935. 

p.  121. 
Recent  Developments  in  Theatre  Loudspeakers.  H.  F.  Olson.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  18.  May,  1932.  p.  571. 

MACHINERY  -  Printing.  See  under  Printing  Machinery. 
MEASUREMENT  OF  COLOUR  -  See  Colour  Measurement. 

MECHANISMS 

Intermittent.  See  under  Intermittent  Mechanisms. 
Projector.  See  under  Projector  Mechanisms. 

MICROPHONES 
Characteristics  of  Modern  Microphones  for  Sound  Recording.  F.  L.  Hopper. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Sept.,  1939.  p.  278. 
Determination  of  Microphone  Performance.  F.  L.  Hopper  and  F.  F.  Roman- 

oro.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Apr.,  1941.  p.  341. 
Moving  Coil  Microphone  of  High  Quality  Reproduction.  W.  C.  Jones  and 

L.  W.  Giles.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Dec.  1931.  p.  977. 
Piezo-Electric  Microphones.  A.  L.  Williams.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  Oct.,  1934 

p.  196. 
Ribbon  Microphones.  H.  F.  Olson.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  16.  June,  1931.  p.  695. 

MONITORING  AND  VOLUME  INDICATORS 

Dimmick,  G.  L.  'A  New  Dichroic  Reflector  and  Its  Applications  to  Photo- 
Ceil  Monitoring  Systems.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  38.  Jan.,  1942.  p.  36. 

Read,  S.  Jr.  'RCA  Victor  High-Fidelity  Film  Recording  Equipment/ J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  20.  May,  1933.  p.  396. 

Read,  S.  Jr.  'A  Neon  Type  Volume  Indicator.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  28.  June, 
1937.  p.  633. 

Kreuzer.  B.  'Recent  Improvements  in  the  Variable- Width  Recording  System. 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  27.  Nov.  1936.  p.  562. 

MOTION  PICTURE  PROJECTION  -  General. 
See  under  Text  Books. 

OSCILLOGRAPH 

Hardy,  A.  C.  "The  Optical  System  of  the  Oscillograph  and  similar  Recording 
Instruments.'  J.  Opt.  Soc.  Amer.  and  Rev.  Scien.  Instruments.  Vol.  14.  June, 

1927.  p.  505. 
Dimmick,  G.  L.  'Galvanometers  for  Variable-Area  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  15.  Oct.,  1930.  p.  428. 

PENUMBRA  VARIABLE-INTENSITY  SYSTEM 
Dimmick,  G.  L.  'Optical  Control  of  Wave-Shape  and  Amplitude  Character- 
istics in  Variable-Density  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Dec.,   1939. 
p.  650. 
Faulkner,  C.  W.  and  Batsel,  C.  N.  'Operation  of  the  Variable-Intensity 
Recording  System.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  36.  Feb.,  1941.  p.  125. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  453 

PHOTOCELLS 
Jamieson,  M.  F.,  Shea,  T.  E.,  and  Pierce.  P.  H.  'The  Photocell  and  Its  Method 

of  Operation.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  27.  Oct.,  1936.  p.  365. 
Hollands,  L.  C.  and  Glover,  A.  M.  'Vacuum-Tube  Engineering  for  Motion 

Pictures.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Jan.,  1938.  p.  38. 
Dow,  W.  G.  'Fundamentals  of  Engineering  Electronics.'  J.  Wiley  (London) 

1937. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC  TONE  VALUES 

Hardy,  A.  C.  'The  Rendering  of  Tone  Values  in  the  Photographic  Recording 
of  Sound.'  Trans.  Soc.  Mot.  Pict.  Eng.  11.  Sept.  1927.  p.  475. 

Jones.  L.  A.  'On  the  Theory  of  Tone  Reproduction  with  a  Graphic  Method 
for  the  Solution  of  Problems.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  16.  May,  1931.  p.  568. 
Also  in  J.  Opt.  Soc.  Am.  Vol.  4.  1920.  p.  420.  Also  in  J.  Franklin  Inst. 
Vol.  190.  (1920)  p.  39.  (Unabridged). 

Mees,  C.  E.  K.  'Some  Photographic  Aspects  of  Sound  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  24.  Apr.,  1935.  p.  285. 

Schmidt,  R.  and  Kuster,  A.  'Analysis  of  Sound  Quality  with  the  Variable- 
Density  Recording  Method  from  Sensitometric  Data.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21. 
Nov.  1933.  p.  374. 

MacKenzie,  D.  'Straight  Line  and  Toe  Records  with  the  Light- Valve.' 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Aug.,  1931.  p.  172. 

Nicholson,  R.  F.  'The  Processing  of  Variable-Density  Sound  Records.' 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Sept.,  1930.  p.  374. 

PHYSICAL  PROPERTIES  OF  FILM 
Film  Perforation  and  its  measurement.  W.  H.  Carson.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14. 

Feb.,  1930.  p.  209. 
Physical  Properties  and  Dimensional  Behaviour  of  Motion  Picture  Film 

J.  M.  Calhoun.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  Oct.,  1944.  p.  227. 
Precision  Recording  Instrument  for  Measuring  Film  Width.  S.  C.  Coroniti 

and  H.  S.  Baldwin.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  41.  Nov.,  1943.  p.  395. 
Some  Relationships  between  the  Physical  Properties  and  the  Behaviour  of 

Motion  Picture  Film.  R.  H.  Talbot.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Sept.,  1945.  p.  209. 

PICTURE  UNSTEADINESS -projection 
See  under  Projection,  Picture  Unsteadiness. 

PRE  AND  POST  EQUALIZATION 

Steinberg,  J.   C.   'The  Stereophonic    Sound-Film    System.   Pre  and   Post 

Equalisation  of  Compandor  Systems.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Oct.,  1941.  p. 

366. 
Hilliard,  J.  K.  'Projects  of  the  Committee  on  Standardisation  of  Theatre 

Sound  Projection  Equipment  Characteristics.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Jan., 

1938.  p.  81. 
Revised    Standard   Electrical    Characteristics   for  'Two- Way    Reproducing 

Systems  in  Theatres.'  Tech,  Bull.  Research  Council  of  The  Academy  of 

Mot.  Pict.  Arts  and  Sciences.  (Oct.,  10,  1938). 
Hilliard.  J.  K.  'Report  on  Recent  Activities  of  the  Research  Council  of  The 

Academy  of  Mot.  Pict.  Arts  and  Sciences.'  Vol.  32.  J.S.M.P.E.  June,  1939. 

p.  610. 

PRINTERS  (CONTACT) 
Wood,  R.  V.  'Shrinkage-Compensating  Sound  Printer.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18. 
June,  1932.  p.  788. 


454  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

PRINTERS  (CONTACT)— continued 

Batsel,  C.  N.  'A  Non-Slip  Sound  Printer.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  Aug.  1934. 

p.  100. 
DePue,  O.  B.  'A  Combination  Picture  and  Ultra-Violet  Non-Slip  Printer.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Jan.,  1938.  p.  107. 
Howell,  A.  S.  and  Mitchell,  R.  F.  'Recent  Improvements  in  The  Bell  and  Howell 

Fully  Automatic  Printer.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  22.  Feb.,  1934.  p.  115. 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  'Sound-Film  Printing.'  (Part  1)  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Oct.,  1933. 

p.  294.  (Part  2)  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  22.  Feb.,  1934.  p.  98. 

PRINTERS  (OPTICAL  REDUCTION) 
Sandvik,  O.,  and  Streiffert,  J.  C.  'A  Continuous  Optical  Reduction  Sound 

Printer.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Aug.,  1935.  p.  117. 
Batsel,  C.  N.  and  Sachtleben,  L.  T.  'Some  Characteristics  of  16-mm  Sound  by 

Optical  Reduction  and  Re-recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  Feb.,  1935.  p.  95. 
Dimmick,  G.  L.,  Batsel,  C.  N.,  and  Sachtleben,  L.  T.  'Optical  Reduction 

Sound  Printing.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  Aug.,  1934.     p.  108. 
Collins,  M.  E.  'Optical  Reduction  Sound  Printing.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  27.  July, 

1936.  p.  105. 
Townsley,  M.  G.  and  Zuber,  J.  G.  'A  Continuous  Optical  Reduction  Sound 

Printer.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Oct.,  1938.  p.  405. 

PRINTER  ILLUMINATION 

Effect  of  Ultra-Violet  Light  on  Variable-Density  Recording  and  Printing. 

J.  J.  Frayne  and  V.  Pagliano.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  June,  1940.  p.  614. 
Illumination  in  Projection  Printers.  C.  Tuttle  and  D.  A.  Young.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  19.  July,  1932.  p.  842. 
Improvements  on  Illumination  Efficiency  of  Motion  Picture  Printers.  C.  J. 

Kunz.,  H.  E.  Goldberg  and  C.  E.  Ives.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  42.  May,  1944.  p.  294. 
New  Light  Control  for  Printing  Machines.  K.  Schneider.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  19. 

July,  1932.  p.  865. 

PRINTING  -  GENERAL 

Careless  work  in  Printing.  I.  Gordon.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Mar.,  1938.  p.  347. 
Duplication  of  Motion  Picture  Negatives.  J.  I.  Crabtree  and  C.  H.  Schwingel. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  19.  July,  1932.  p.  891. 
Improvements  in  Sound  and  Picture  Release  through  the  use  of  Fine  Grain 

Films.  C.  R.  Daily.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  Jan.,  1940.  p.  12. 
Measurements  of  Photographic  Printing  Density.  J.  G.  Frayne.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  36.  June,  1941.  p.  622. 
Reduction  of  Loop  Length  in  Non-Slip  Printers.  E.  W.  Kellogg.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  30.  Feb.,  1938.  p.  136. 
Reproduction  of  Colour  Film  Sound  Records.  R.  Gorlisch  and  P.  Gorlich. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  Sept.,  1944.  p.  206. 

PRINTING  -  MACHINERY 

Combination  Picture  and  Ultra-Violet  Non-Slip  Sound  Printer.  O.  B.  Depue. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Jan.,  1938,  p.  107. 
New  Acme-Dunn  Optical  Printer.  L.  G.  Dunn.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  42.  Apr.,  1944. 

p.  204. 
Recent  Improvements  in  the  Bell  &  Howell  Fully  Automatic  Printer.  A.  S. 

Howell  and  R.  F.  Mitchell.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  22.  Feb.,  1934,  p.  115. 

PROCESS  -  COLOUR 
General.  See  Text  Books. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  455 

PROCESS  PROJECTION 

High-Efficiency  Stereopticon  Projector  for  Colour  Background  Shots.  F. 

Edcourt.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  Aug.,  1944.  p.  97. 
Motor  Drive  (Improved)  for  Self-Phasing  of  Process  Projection  Equipment. 

H.  Tasker.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Aug.,  1941.  p.  187. 
Paramount    Transparency    Process    Projection    Equipment.    F.    Edourt, 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  40.  June,  1943.  p.  368. 
Paramount  Triple-Head  Transparency  Process  Projector.  F.  Edourt.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  33.  Aug.,  1939.  p.  171. 
PROCESSES  -  COLOUR 
See  under  Colour  Processes  and  also  under  Text  Books. 

PROCESSING  CONDITIONS 
Automatic  Silver  Recovery  Control.  K.  Hickman.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Oct., 

1931.  p.  591. 
Drying  Conditions  and  Photographic  Density.  D.  R.  White.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  19.  Oct.,  1932.  p.  340. 
Effect  of  Developer  Agitation  on  Density  Uniformity  and  Rate  of  Develop- 
ment. C.  E.  Ives  and  E.  W.  Jensen.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  40.  Feb.,  1943.  p.  107. 
Maintenance  of  Developer  by  Continuous  Replenishment.  R.  M.  Evans. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Sept.,  1938.  p.  273. 
Some    Turbulation    Characteristics    of   the    new    Twentieth    Century-Fox 

Developing  Machine.  M.  S.  Leshing  and  T.  M.  Ingman.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

44.  Feb.,  1945.  p.  87. 
PROCESSING  EQUIPMENT 
Film  Splicing  for  Developing  Machines.  J.  G.  Capstaff  and   J.  S.  Beggs. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  Mar.,  1940.  p.  339. 
Improvements  in  Motion  Picture  Laboratory  Apparatus.  C.  E.  Ives  and 

E.  W.  Jensen.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  35.  Oct.,  1940.  p.  397. 
Materials  for  the  Construction  of  Motion  Picture  Processing  Apparatus. 

J.  I.  Crabtree  and  G.  E.  Matthews  and  J.  E.  Ross.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  16. 

Mar.,  1931,  p.  330. 
Modern  Studio  Laboratory.  G.  Best  and  F.  R.  Gage.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  35. 

Sept.,  1940.  p.  294. 
Simplifying  and  Controlling  Film  Travel  through  a  Developing  Machine. 

J.  F.  VanLeuven.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Nov.,  1939.  p.  583. 
See  also  under  Text  Books. 
PROCESSING  QUALITY  CONTROL  -  SENSITOMETRY  (GENERAL) 

See  under  Text  Books. 
PROCESSING  SOUND  FILM 

See  under  Sound  Film  Processing. 
PROCESSING  VARIABLE  DENSITY  RECORDS 
Processing  of  Variable  Density  Sound  Records.  R.  F.  Nicholson.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  15.  Sept.,  1930.  p.  374. 
The  Sensitometric  Control  of  Sound  Records  on  Film.  A.  Kusterand  R. 

Schmidt.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  19.  Dec.,  1932.  p.  539. 
PROJECTION 
Auditoria.  See  under  Auditoria. 
Film  Wear.  See  under  Film  Wear,  Projection. 
Lenses 

New  Lenses  for  Projecting  Motion  Pictures.  W.  B.  Rayton.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

35.  July,  1940.  p.  89. 


456  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

PROJECTION— continued 
Picture  Steadiness 

Displacement  Meter  for  Testing  Unsteadiness  in  Motion  Picture  Pro- 
jectors. R.  W.  Jones.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  44.  June,  1945.  p.  456. 
Film  Distortions  and  their  Effect  upon  Projection  Quality.  E.  K.  Carver, 
R.  H.  Talbot  and  H.  A.  Loomis.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  41.  July,  1943.  p.  88. 
Process.  See  under  Process  Projection. 
Stereoscopic.  See  under  Stereoscopic  Projection. 
PROJECTOR 
Light  Sources. 

Efficiency  of  Picture  Projection  Systems.  E.  W.  Kellogg.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

45.  Sept.,  1945.  p.  191. 

Improved  Methods  of  Controlling  Carbon  Arc  Position.  D.  J.  Zaffarano, 

W.  W.  Lozier  and  D.  B.  Joy.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Nov.,  1941.  p.  485. 
Light  Source  Requirements  for  Picture  Projection.  F.  E.  Carlson.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  24.  Mar.,  1935.  p.  35. 
New  35-mm  Projector  with  a  new  Light  Source.  (Phillips  machine  with 
Mercury  Vapour  Lamp).  T.  Schaffers.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  44.  Mar.,  1945. 
p.  393. 
Operating  Characteristics  of  the  High  Intensity  A.  C.  Arc  for  Motion 
Picture  Projection.  D.  B.  Joy  and  E.  R.  Geib.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  July, 
1934.  p.  35. 
Operation  of  Projection  Arcs  from  Motor  Generator  Sets.  C.  C.  Dash. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Nov.,  1930.  p.  702. 
Some  causes  of  variations  in  the  light  steadiness  of  High-Intensity  Carbons. 

D.  B.  Joy  and  A.  C.  Downes.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  16.  Jan.,  1931.  p.  61. 
Water-Cooled  Quartz  Mercury  Arc.  E.  B.   Noel  and  R.  E.  Farnham. 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Sept.,  1938.  p.  221. 
Mechanisms. 
Analysis  of  Geneva  Mechanisms.  W.  A.  Willis.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  44.  Apr., 

1945.  p.  275. 
Flexible  Drive  Shafts  -  Their  Application  to  Sound  Pictures.  J.  C.  Smack. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  Apr.,  1930.  p.  384. 
Flicker  in  Motion  Pictures.  L.  D.  Grignon.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  Sept.,  1939. 

p.  235. 
The  Projection  of  Motion  Pictures.  H.  A.  Starks.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  41. 
Aug.  1943.  p.  183. 
PROJECTORS  -  GENERAL  See  under  Text  Books. 

PROPERTIES  OF  FILM  -  PHYSICAL.  See  under  Physical  Properties  of  Film. 
PUSH-PULL  SYSTEMS 
Frayne,  J.  G.  and  Silent.  H.  C.  'Push-Pull  Recording  with  the  Light- Valve.  * 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  July,  1938.  p.  46. 
Hilliard,  J.  K.  'Push-Pull  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Feb.,  1938.  p.  156. 
Ceccarini,  O.  O.  'Theoretical  Notes  on  the  Push-Pull  Method  of  Recording 

Sound.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30  Feb.,  1938.  p.  162. 
Blaney,  A.  C.  and  Best,  G.  M.  'Latest  Developments  in  Variable-Area  Process- 
ing.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  32.  Mar.,  1939.  p.  237. 
QUALITY  OF  SOUND  REPRODUCTION  See  under  Sound  Reproduction. 
RECENT  INVENTIONS 
Equipment  -  see  under  'Equipment.' 
Recent  Special  Effects  -see  under  'Special  Effects.' 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  457 

RECORDING  SOUND  -  GENERAL.  See  Text  Books. 

REPRODUCTION  OF  SOUND  -  GENERAL  -  See  Text  Books. 

RE-RECORDING 
Goldsmith,  L.  T.,  'Re-Recording  Sound  Motion  Pictures.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

39.  Nov.,  1942.  p.  277. 
Hopper,  F.  L.  'Electrical  Networks  for  Sound  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

31.  Nov.,  1938.  p.  443. 
Miller,  W.  C.  and  Kimball,  H.  R.  'A  Re-Recording  Console  Associated 

Circuits  and  Constant  B  Equalizers.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  Sept.,  1944.  p.  187. 

RECIPROCITY 

Jones,  L.  A.  and  Webb,  J.  H.  'Reciprocity  Law  Failure  in  Photographic 

Exposures.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  23.  Sept.,  1934.  p.  142. 
Kuster,  A.,  and  Schmidt,  R.  'The  Densitometric  Control  of  Sound  Records 

on  Film.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  19.  Sept.  1932.  p.  539. 
RECORDING  ON  16-MM  FILM 
Maurer,  J.  A.  'The  Present  Technical  Status  of  16-mm  Sound  Film.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  34.  Sept.,  1939.  p.  315. 
Batsel,  C.  N.  and  Baker,  J.  O.  'Sound  Recording  and  Reproducing  Using 

16-mm  Film.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Aug.,  1933.  p.  161. 
Kellogg,   E.   W.   'The  Development  of  16-mm   Sound   Motion   Pictures.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  Jan.,  1935.  p.  63. 
Maurer,  J.  A.  'Commercial  Motion  Picture  Production  with  16-mm  Equip- 
ment.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  35.  Nov.,  1940.  p.  437. 
Thompson,  L.  'The  Practical  Side  of  Direct  16-mm  Laboratory  Work.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Aug.,  1943.  p.  157.  and  also  'Notes  on  the  Applications  of 

Fine-Grain  Film  to  16-mm  Motion  Pictures.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Nov.,  1943.  p.  374. 
Shapiro,   A.   'Present  Aspects  in    the    Development    of    16-mm   Sound.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  29.  Sept.,  1937.,  p.  303. 
McKie,  R.  V.  'Commercial  Processing  of  16-mm  Variable  Area.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  43.  Dec,  1944.  p.  414. 
Thompson,  L.  'What  to  Expect  from  Direct  16-mm.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43. 

Sept.,  1944.  p.  178. 
Boyer,  M.  R.  'Report  of  Sub-Committee  C  on  16-mm  Laboratory  Practice.* 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  43.  July,  1944.  p.  21. 
Maurer,  J.  A.  'Report  of  Sub-Committee  B  on  16-mm  Sound.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  43.  July,  1944.  p.  19. 
Offenhauser,  W.  H.  Jr.,  'The  16-mm  Commercial  Film  Laboratory.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.41.  Aug.,  1943.  p.  157. 
REPRODUCING  SYSTEMS 
Aalberg,  J.  O.  and  Stewart,  J.  G.  'Application  of  Non-Linear  Volume  Charac- 
teristics to  Dialog  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  Sept.,  1938.  p.  248. 
Stryker,  N.  R.  'Scanning  Losses  in  Reproduction.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Nov., 

1930.  p.  610. 
Cook,  E.  D.  'The  Aperture  Alignment  Effect.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Nov., 

1933.  p.  390. 
Foster,  D.  'Effect  of  Orientation  of  the  Scanning  Image  on  the  Quality  of 

Sound  Reproduced  from  Variable-Width  Records.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33. 

Nov.,  1939.  p.  502. 
Batsel,  C.  N.  and  Cartwright,  C.  H.  'Effect  of  Uneven  Slit  Illumination  upon 

Distortion  in  Several  Types  of  Variable  Width  Records.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

29.  Nov.,  1937.  p.  476. 

30 


458  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

SCANNING  LOSSES 
Stryker,  N.  R.  'Scanning  Losses  in  Reproduction.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Nov., 

1930.  p.  610. 

Loye,  D.  P.  and  Morgan  K.  F.  'Sound  Picture  Recording  and  Reproducing 
Characteristics.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  32.  June,  1939,  p.  631. 

SENSITOMETRY 
Jones,  L.  A.  'Photographic  Sensitometry.'  (Part  1)  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Oct., 

1931.  p.  491.  (Part  2)  Vol.  17  Nov.,  1931.  p.  695.  (Part  3).  Vol.  18.  Jan., 

1932.  p.  54.  (Part  4).  Vol.  18.  Mar.,  1932.  p.  324. 

Huse,  E.  'Sensitometric  Control  in  the  Processing  of  Motion  Picture  Film  in 
Hollywood.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  July,  1933.  p.  54. 

Shaner,  V.  C.  'A  Note  on  the  Processing  of  Eastman  1302  Fine-Grain  Release 
Positive.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  38.  Jan.,  1942.  p.  66. 

Jones,  L.  A.  and  Sandvik,  O.  'Photographic  Characteristics  of  Sound  Record- 
ing Film.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  Feb.,  1930.  p.  180. 

Chambers,  G.  A.  and  Wratten,  I.  D.  'The  Eastman  Type  2b  Sensitometer  as  a 
Control  Instrument  in  the  Processing  of  Motion  Picture  Film.'  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  21.  Sept.,  1933.  p.  218. 

White,  D.  R.  'Two  Special  Sensitometers.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18.  Mar.,  1932.  p. 
279. 

SHUTTERS 

Kellogg,  E.  W.  and  Batsel,  C.  N.  'A  Shutter  for  Use  in  Reduction  of  Ground- 
Noise.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Aug.,  1931,  p.  203. 

Baker,  J.  O.,  Hasbrouck,  H.  J.,  and  Batsel,  C.  N.  'Improved  Noise-Reduction 
System  for  High-Fidelity  Recording.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  29.  Sept.,  1937. 
p.  310. 

Townsend,  R.  H.  McDowell,  H.  Jr.,  and  Clark,  L.  E.  'Ground-Noise  Reduc- 
tion.' Reprint  No.  26.  Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences. 
(Hollywood). 

SILVER  RECOVERY 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Ross,  J.  F.  'The  Recovery  of  Silver  from  Exhausted  Fixing 

Baths.'  American  Annual  Phot.  Vol.  41.  1927.  p.  159. 
Hickman,  K.  C.  D.,  Sandford,  C,  and  Weyerts,  W.  J.  'The  Electrolytic 

Regeneration  of  Fixing  Baths.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  1931.  p.  568.  and  Ind. 

Eng.  Chem.  Vol.  25.  1933.  p.  202. 

SLIT  ANGLE 
Cook,  E.  D.  'The  Aperture  Alignment  Effect.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Nov., 
1933.  p.  390. 

Foster,  D.  'Effect  of  Orientation  of  the  Scanning  Image  on  the  Quality  of 
Sound  Reproduced  from  Variable-Width  Records.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33. 
Nov.,  1939.  p.  502. 

SOUND  FILM  PROCESSING 
Directional  Effects  in  Continuous  Film  Processing.  J.  Crabtree.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  18.  Feb.,  1932.  p.  207  and  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  21.  Nov.,  1933.  p.  351. 
Physical  Densitometer  for  Sound    Processing    Laboratories.  F.  L.  Eich. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  Feb.,  1935.  p.  180. 
General  -  see  under  Text  Books. 
Sensitometric    Control.    See  under  Sensitometric   Control   of  Sound  Film 

Processing. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  459 

SOUND  RECORDING 

Acoustics 
Acoustic  Control  of  Recording  for  Talking  Motion  Pictures.'  J.  P.  Maxfield, 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14.  Jan.,  1930.  p.  85. 
One  Type  of  Acoustic  Distortion  in  Sound  Picture  Sets.  R.  L.  Hanson. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Oct.,  1930.  p.  460. 
Recent  Developments  in  the  Acoustics  of  Motion  Picture  Sound  Stages. 

M.  Rettinger.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  May,  1935.  p.  395. 
Solving  Acoustic  and  Noise  Problems  Encountered  in  Recording  for 

Motion  Pictures.  W.  L.  Thayer.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Nov.,  1941.  p.  525. 
Sound  Proofing  and  Acoustic  Treatment  of  R.K.O.  Stages.  A.  S.  Ringel. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15.  Sept.,  1930.  p.  352. 

General. 

See  under  Text  Books. 
General  Papers. 
A.B.C.  of  Photographic  Sound  Recording.  E.  W.  Kellogg.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

44.  Mar.,  1945.  p.  151. 
Decibel  in  the  Motion  Picture  Industry.  V.  C.  Hall.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18. 

Mar.,  1932.  p.  292. 
Galvanometers  in  Variable  Area  Recording.  (No  Author).  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

15.  Oct.,  1930.  p.  428. 
High-Fidelity  Lateral  Cut  Disc  Recordings.  F.  C.  Barton.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol. 

22.  Mar.,  1934.  p.  179. 
Lighting  in  Sound  Film  Recorders.  L.  Dunoyer.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18.  Jan. 

1932.  p.  3. 
Noise  Measurement.  S.  K.  Wolfe  and  G.  T.  Stanton.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17. 

Dec,  1931.  p.  966. 
Recent  Developments  in  Sound  Tracks.  E.  M.  Honan  and  C.  R.  Keith. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  41.  Aug.,  1943.  p.  127. 
Reproduction  of  Colour  Film  Sound  Records.  R.  Gorisch  and  P.  Gorlich. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.,  43.  Aug.,  1944.  p.  206. 
Variable  Area  Release  from  Variable  Density  Original  Sound  Tracks. 

G.  P.  Livadary  and  S.  J.  Twining.  J.  S.M.P.E.  Vol.  45.  Nov.,  1945.  p.  380. 
Volume  Compression  in  Sound  Recording.  M.  F.  Cooper.  J.B.K.S.  Vol.  3. 

1940.  p.  3. 
Glowlamps 

See  Under  Glowlamp  Recording. 
Light  Valves 

See  under  Light  Valve  Recording. 
Microphones 

See  under  'Microphones.' 
Variable  Density. 
See  under  Western  Electric. 

SOUND  REPRODUCTION 

Acoustics. 

See  under  Theatre  Acoustics. 
Amplification. 

See  under  Sound  Track  Amplification. 
General. 

See  under  Text  Books. 


460  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

SOUND  REPRODUCTION— continued 
Horn  Systems. 

See  under  Loudspeakers. 

Quality. 

Recent  Developments  in  Sound  Control  for  the  Legitimate  Theatre  and  the 
Opera.  H.  Burris-Meyer.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  41.  Dec,  1943.  p.  494. 

Review  of  the  Quest  for  Constant  Speed.  E.  W  Kellogg.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  28. 
Apr.,  1937.  p.  337. 

Scanning  Losses  in  Reproduction.  N.  R.  Stryker.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  15. 
Nov.,  1930.  p.  610. 

Sound  Control  in  the  Theatre  comes  of  Age.  H.  Burris-Meyer.  J.S.M.P.E. 
Vol.  41.  Dec,  1943.  p.  500. 

Transmission  and  Reproduction  of  Speech  and  Music  in  Auditory  Per- 
spective. H.  Fletcher.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  22.  May,  1934.  p.  31. 

SOUND  TRACK  AMPLIFICATION 

Vacuum  Tube  and  Photo-Electric  Tube  Development  for  Sound  Picture 
Systems.  M.  J.  Kelly.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18.  June,  1932.  p.  761. 

SOUND  TRACK  DENSITY 
Physical  Densitometer  for   Sound   Processing  Laboratories.   F.   L.   Eich. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  24.  Feb.,  1931.  p.  180. 
Measurement  of  Density  in  Variable  Density  Sound  Films.  C.  Tuttle  and  J.  W. 

MacFarlane.  Amer.  Cine  Vol.  11.  Nov.,  1930.  p.  14. 
Relationship  between  Diffuse  and  Specular  Density.  C.  Tuttle.  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  20.  Mar.,  1933.  p.  228. 

SPECIAL  EFFECTS 
Black  Light  in  Theatre  Auditoriums.  H.  J.  Channon  and  F.  M.  Falge. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Aug.,  1941.  p.  157. 
Dunning  Process.  C.  H.  Dunning.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17.  Nov.,  1931.  p.  743. 
Fantasound.  W.  E.  Garity  and  J.  N.  A.  Hawkins.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Aug., 

1941.  p.  127. 
Studio  Cloud  Effects.  ('Clouds  made  to  Order')  C.  G.  Clarke.  Amer.  Cine. 

Vol.  22.  July,  1941.  p.  315. 

SPROCKET  HOLE  MODULATION 
Crabtree,  J.  I.  and  Herriott,  W.  'Film  Perforation  and  96-cycle  Frequency 

Modulation  in  Sound-Film  Records.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30.  Jan.,  1938.  p.  25. 
Kellogg,  E.  W.  and  Belar,  H.  'Analysis  of  the  Distortion  Resulting  from 

Sprocket-Hole  Modulation.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Dec,  1935.  p.  492. 
Baker,  J.  O.  and  Drew,  R.  O.  'New  and  Old  Aspects  of  the  origins  of  96-cycle 

distortion.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Sept.,  1941.  p.  227. 

SPROCKETS  (DESIGN  OF) 

A  method  of  Designing  Film  Sprockets.  W.  G.  Hill  and  C.  L.  Schaefer. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Aug.,  1941.  p.  177. 
Some  Theoretical  Considerations  in  the  Design  of  Sprockets  for  Continuous 

Film  Movement.  J.  S.  Chandler.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37.  Aug.,  1941.  p.  164. 

STEREOSCOPIC  PROJECTION 

Progress  in  Three-Dimensional  Pictures.  J.  A.  Norling.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  37. 

Nov.,  1941.  p.  516. 
Russian  Third  Dimension  Movies.  S.  Ivanov.  Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  22.  May,  1941. 

p.  213. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  461 

TELEKINEMA 
Brit.  Kine.  18,  No.  4,  April,  1950,  p.  108. 
Brit.  Kine.  18,  No.  5,  May,  1950,  p.  142. 
Ideal  Kine.  16,  No.  175,  Feb.,  1950,  p.  5. 
TEST  FILMS 
Standard  S.M.P.E.  Visual  and  Sound  Test  Reels.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  22  Mar., 

1934.  p.  173. 
American  War  Standards  Specification  -  Test  Films.  Z52-7  -  1944  American 

Standards  Association  (70,  East  45th  St.  New  York  17). 
Townsley,  M.  G.  'A  Film  for  Measuring  Projector  Steadiness.'  J.S.M.P.E. 

Vol.  43.  July,  1944.  p.  30. 
Kellogg,  E.  W.  'A  Recorder  for  Making  Buzz  Track.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  30. 
Feb.,  1938.  p.  150. 
TEXT  BOOKS 
Cinematograph  Cameras. 
American  Cinematographers  Handbook  and  Reference  Guide.  Jackson  J. 

Ross.  American  Society  of  Cinematographers.  Hollywood,  1938. 
Cinematographers  Book  of  Tables.   F.   Westerberg.   The  International 

Photographer.  Hollywood,  1934. 
Der  Praktische  Kameraman.  G.  Seeber  and  G.  V.  Mendel.  Lichtbildbuhn, 

Berlin,  1927. 
Hilfsbush  fur  den  Kamerman.  W.  Knappe.  Halle.  1926. 
Kine  Handbook.  Agfa,  Berlin,  1929. 
Kinematograph  Studio  Technique.  L.  C.  MacBean.  I.  Pitman  &  Son, 

London,  1922. 
Living  Pictures.  H.  V.  Hopwood.  (2nd  Edition)  The  Hatton  Press,  London, 

1915. 
Motion  Picture  Cameraman.  F.  G.  Lutz.  Chas.  Scribners  &  Sons,  New 

York,  1927. 
Motion  Picture  Photography.  C.  L.  Gregory,  1920.  (2nd  Edit).  Edited  by 
H.  C.  McKay.  Falk,  Pub.  Co.  New  York,  1927. 
Colour  Processes. 
Colour  Cinematography.  A.  B.  Klein.  Chapman  &  Hall.  London,  1936. 
Colour  Photography  in  Practice.  D.  A.  Spencer.  I.  Pitman  &  Sons,  and 

Henry  Greenwood  &  Co.  London,  1939. 
History  of  Colour  Photography.  J.  S.  Freidman.  American  Photographic 

Pub.  Co.  Boston,  1944. 
History  of  Three  Colour  Photography.  E.  J.  Wall.  American  Photographic 

Pub.  Co.  Boston,  1925. 
Measurement  of  Colour.  W.  D.  Wright.  Adam  Hilger  Ltd.,  London,  1944. 
Universe  of  Light.  W.  H.  Bragg.  G.  Bell  &  Co.,  London,  1936. 
General  Cinematographic  Principles  and  Historical. 
Etablissements  Gaumont  (1895-1929).  Leon  Gaumont.  Imprimerie  Gauther 

Villars,  1936. 
Geschichte  der  Kinematographie.  W.  Dost.  W.  Knappe,  Halle,  1925. 
Handbook  of  Photography.  K.  Henney  and  B.  Dudley.  McGraw-Hill  Book 

Co.  New  York  and  London,  1939. 
Histoire  du  Cinematographe.  M.  Coissac.  Gauthier- Villars,  Paris,  1925. 
How  Motion  Pictures  are  Made.  Homer  Croy.  Harper  Brothers,  New  York 

and  London,  1918. 
Illustrated  Catalogue  of  the  Will  Day  Historical  Collection  of  Cinemato- 
graph and  Moving  Picture  Equipment.  W.  E.  I.  Day,  London,  1930. 


462  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 

TEXT  BOOKS— continued 

Le  Film  Vierge  Pathe.  Pathe-Cinema,  Paris,  1926. 

Life  of  George  Eastman.  C.  W.  Ackerman.  Constable  &  Co.  London.  1930. 

Life  of  Thomas  A.  Edison.  W.  K.  L.  and  A.  Dickson.  Chatto  &  Windus, 

London,  1894. 
Living  Pictures.  H.  V.  Hopwood.  (2nd  Edit.).  The  Hatton  Press,  London, 

1915. 
Million  and  One  Nights  -  The  History  of  Motion  Pictures.  T.  Ramsage. 

Simon  &  Schuster,  New  York,  1921. 
Movement.  E.  J.  Marey.  W.  Heinemann  &  Co.,  London,  1895. 
Moving  Pictures  -  How  They  are  Made  and  Work.  F.  A.  Talbot.  W. 

Heinemann  &  Co.,  London,  1923. 
Photography  -  Its  Principles  and  Practices.  C.  B.  Neblette.  Chapman  & 

Hall,  London,  1942. 
Photography  To-Day.  D.  A.  Spencer.  Oxford  University  Press,  1936. 
Pictorial  History  of  the  Movies.  D.  Taylor,  Simon  &  Schuster,  New  York, 

1943. 
Story  of  the  Motion  Picture.  B.  J.  Lubschez.  (Short  Treatise).  Reeland 

Pub.  Co.,  New  York,  1942. 
Theory  of  the  Photographic  Process.  C.  E.  K.  Mees,  MacMillan  &  Co.. 

New  York,  1942. 

Motion  Picture  Projectors. 
Complete  Projectionist.  R.  H.  Cricks.  Kinemat.  Pub.  Co.,  London,  1934 

and  thereafter  annually. 
Motion  Picture  Theatre  Management.  H.  B.  Franklin,  G.  H.  Doran  &  Co., 

New  York,  1927. 
Projecting  Sound  Pictures.  A  Nadell.  McGraw-Hill  Book  Co.,  New  York, 

1931. 
Servicing  Projection  Equipment.  Mancall  Pub.  Co.,  New  York,  1932. 

Processing  Equipment. 

Handling  and  Mixing  Photographic  Chemicals  and  Solutions.  J.  I.  Crabtree 

and  G.  E.  Matthews.  Tennant  &  Ward.  New  York,  1926. 
Motion  Picture  Laboratory  Practice.  Eastman  Kodak  Co.  Rochester,  N.Y., 

1936. 
Tirage  et  developpement  des  films  cinematographiques.  M.  Mayer.  Editions 

du  'Cineopse',  Paris,  1926. 

Processing  Quality  Control  and  Sensitometry. 

Investigations  in  the  Theory  of  the  Photographic  Process.  S.  E.  Sheppard 

and  C.  E.  K.  Mees.  Longmans,  Green  &  Co.,  London,  1907. 
Manuel  de  sensitometrie,  L.  Lobel  and  M.  Dubois,  P.  Montel,  Paris,  1929. 
Motion  Picture  Laboratory  Practice.  Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester, 

N.Y.,  1936. 
Photographic  Researches  of  Hurter  and  Driffield.  Royal  Photographic 

Society,  London,  1920. 
Theory  of  the  Photographic  Process.  C.  E.  K.  Mees,  MacMillan  &  Co., 

New  York,  1942. 

Sound  Film  Processing. 

Motion  Picture  Laboratory  Practice.   Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester, 

N.Y.,  1936. 
Theory  of  the  Photographic  Process.  C.  E.  K.  Mees,  MacMillan  &  Co., 
New  York.  1942. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  463 

TEXT  BOOKS— continued 
Sound  Recording. 
Motion  Picture  Sound  Engineering.  Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  & 

Sciences.  Chapman  &  Hall,  London,  1938. 
Motion  Pictures  with  Sound.  J.  R.  Cameron.  Cameron  Pub.  Co.,  New 

York,  1929. 
Photo-Electricity.  H.  S.  Allen.  Longmans,  Green  &  Co.,  London,  1913. 
Recording  Sound  for  Motion  Pictures.  Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  & 

Sciences.  McGraw-Hill  Book  Co.  New  York  &  London,  1931. 
Science  of  Musical  Sounds.  D.  C.  Miller.  MacMillan  &  Co.,  New  York,  1934. 
Sound  Motion  Pictures.  H.  B.  Franklin.  Doubleday,  Doran  &  Co.,  New 

York,  1929. 
Talking  Pictures.  B.  Brown.  I.  Pitman  &  Son,  London,  1931. 
Text  Book  of  Sound.  A.  B.  Wood.  G.  Bell  &  Son,  London,  1930. 
Sound  Reproduction. 
Encyclopedia  of  Sound  Motion  Pictures.  J.  R.  Cameron.  Cameron  Pub. 

Co.  New  York.  1930. 
Motion  Picture  Sound  Engineering.  Research  Council,  Academy  of  Motion 

Picture  Arts  &  Sciences.  Chapman  &  Hall,  London,  1938. 
Sound  Projection.  R.  Miehling.  Mancall  Pub.  Co.,  New  York,  1929. 
Talking  Pictures.  B.  Brown.  I.  Pitman  &  Sons,  London,  1931. 
Talking  Pictures  and  Acoustics.  C.  M.  R.  Balbi.  Electrical  Review.  London, 
1931. 
THEATRE  ACOUSTICS 
Acoustics  of  Large  Auditoriums.  S.  K.  Wolf.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18.  Apr.,  1932. 

p.  517. 
Electro- Magnetic  Recording  of  Acoustic  Phenomena.  G.  Stille.  Amer.  Cine. 

Vol.  10.  Sept.,  1929.  p.  16. 
Noise  Measurement.  S.  K.  Wolf  and  G.  T.  Stanton.  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  17. 

Dec.,  1931.  p.  966. 
Some  Acoustic  Faults  in  Large  Auditoria.  H.  J.  O'Dell.  J.B.K.S.  Vol.  2. 

Apr.,  1939.  p.  98. 
Theatre  Acoustics  in  Sound  Reproduction.  S.  K.  Wolf,  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  14. 
Feb.,  1930.  p.  151. 

THEATRE  LOUDSPEAKERS 

See  under  Loudspeakers. 
TRACK  DENSITY 

See  under  Sound  Track  Density. 
ULTRA-VIOLET  PRINTING 

See  under  Printing. 
ULTRA-VIOLET  RECORDING 

Dimmick,  G.  L.  'Improved  Resolution  in  Sound  Recording  and  Printing 
by  the  use  of  Ultra-Violet  Light.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  27.  Aug.,  1936.  p.  168. 

Frayne,  J.  G.,  and  Pagliarolo,  V.  'The  Effect  of  Ultra-Violet  Light  on  Variable- 
Density  Recording  and  Printing.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  34.  June,  1940.  p.  615. 

Baker,  J.  O.  'Processing  of  Ultra-Violet  Recordings  on  Panchromatic  Films.* 
J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  July,  1938.  p.  28. 

Dimmick,  G.  L.,  and  Sachtleben,  L.  T.  'An  Ultra-Violet  Push-Pull  Recording 
Optical  System  for  Newsreel  Camera.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  31.  July,  1938,  p.  87. 

Drew,  R.  O.,  and  Sachtleben,  L.  T.,  'Recent  Laboratory  Studies  of  Optical 
Reduction  Printing.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Dec.,  1943,  p.  505. 


464  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 

UNEVEN  SLIT  ILLUMINATION 

Batsel,  C.  N.  and  Cartwright,  C.  H.  'Effect  of  Uneven  Slit  Illumination  upon 
Distortion  in  several  types  of  Variable-Width  Records.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  29. 
Nov.,  1937.  p.  476. 

Carlson,  F.  E.  'Properties  of  Lamps  and  Optical  Systems  for  Sound  Repro- 
duction.' J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  33.  July,  1939.  p.  80. 

VARIABLE-AREA  RECORDING 

Dimmick,  G.  L.  and  Belar,  H.  'Extension  of  the  Frequency  Range  of  Film 

Recording  and  Reproduction.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  19.  Nov.,  1932.  p.  401. 
Dimmick,  G.  L.  'The  R.CA  Recording  System  and  its  Application  to  Various 

Types  of  Sound  Track.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  29.  Sept.,  1937.  p.  258. 
Sachtleben,  L.  T.  'Characteristics  of  Photophone  Light-Modulating  System.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  25.  Aug.,  1935.  p.  175. 
Batsel,  M.  C.  and  Kellogg,  E.  W.  'The  RCA  Sound  Recording  System.' 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  28.  May,  1937.  p.  507. 

VARIABLE  DENSITY  RECORDS  -  PROCESSING  OF 

See  under  Processing. 

VOLUME  RANGE  DESIRABLE 

Mueller,  W.  A.  'Audience  Noise  as  a  Limitation  to  the  Permissible  Volume 
Range  of  Dialog  in  Sound  Motion  Pictures.'  J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  35.  July,  1940. 
p.  48. 

WESTERN  ELECTRIC  SOUND  RECORDING 

Motion  Picture  Sound  Recording  -  Western  Electric  Method.  D.  MacKenzie. 

Amer.  Cine.  Vol.  10.  Feb.,  1930.  p.  10. 
Western  Electric  Noiseless  Recording.   H.   G.   Silent  and  J.  G.   Frayne. 

J.S.M.P.E.  Vol.  18.  May,  1932.  p.  551. 


INDEX 


Aberration,  Chromatic  in  lenses,  190 

„        Spherical  in  lenses,  1 89 
Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  & 

Sciences,  175,  279 
Acetate  Film  Base,  407 
Acme-Dunn  Optical  Effects  printer, 

168,  439 
Acoustics,  Theatre,  274 
Aeo  Lamps  in  sound  recording,  213 
Aerial  Fog,  105. 
Air  Bells,  105 
„    Squeegee,  85,  103 
Alarm  system,  Continuous  Processing 

Equipment,  80,  90 
American  Standards  Association, 

377,  397 
Amplifier  "  cut-off  "  217 
Anamorphote  Lens  System  328 
Anti-Foam  solutions,  106,  111 
Aperture  plates,  Projector — cooling  of 

174 
Aperture  plates,  Projector — design  of 

181 
"  A  Place  Of  One's  Own  ",  65 
Appearance  of  drying  film,  97 
Apron-Type  film  processing,  73 
Arc,  high-intensity  projection,  173, 187 
Audible  Spectrum,  261 

Threshold,  223,  278 
Audience  distribution,  171 
Auditorium,  "Black-Lighting"  in,  428 

Background  projection,  67 
Barrel  distortion  in  lenses,  190 

„      type  shutter,  181 
Base,  Film — see  Film  Base 
Bell  &  Howell  Automatic  printer,  163 

„  „      Shuttle-type     intermit- 

tent, 59,  439 

„  „      Sound  projectors,  381 

Bias  current  in  Light  Valves,  236,  238 
Bi-Lateral  Variable  Area  Recording, 

220 
Biograph  Company,  49 
Black-Light  in  Auditoria,  428 


Blair  &  Danelo,  47 

Blistering — processing  defect,  106 

Brightness  of  Carbon  Arcs,  189 

„       „  Projection  Screens,  184 
British  Acoustic  Company,  285 

„    Kinematograph  Society,  29, 206 

283 
„    Thomson-Houston   Company, 
284,  433 
Broken  splices — processing  defect,  106 
Buzz  tracks,  416 

Callier  coefficient,  138 
Camera  Aperture,  291 

„      General,  43 

„      Narrow-Gauge — see   Narrow 
Gauge  Cameras 

„      Principles  of,  27, 43,  54 

„      Sub-standard — see      Narrow 
Gauge  Cameras. 
Cancellation  density,  252 
Carbon  rods — manufacture  of,  187 
Case,  Theodore  W.,  213 
Caustic  Soda  as   Developer   accelera- 
tor, 111 

„         „   in  Silver  Recovery,  114 
Cerium — use  of  in  carbons,  189 
Change-Overs,  174,  277 
Characteristic    Curves — sensitometry, 

127,  129 
Chromatic  aberration,  190 
Chrome-alum  hardener,  112 
Cinch  Marks,  106 
Cinema  seating  distribution,  170 
Cinema-Television  Limited,  434 
Cinex  timer,  158 
Circle  of  confusion,  190 
Clapper  boy,  36,  68 
Claw  mechanism — see  Intermittent. 
Coated  lenses,  438 
Colour     temperature     of    Tungsten 

lamps,  119 
Comparators — printer  grading,  157 
Compressed  air — gate  tension  by,  165 
Condensers — projector,  184 


465 


466 


THE  PRINCIPLES  OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Constant  speed  devices,  266,  421 
Contact  printers — see  Printers. 
Continuous  Processing  Machines,  Air 

squeegee,  85,  103 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Alarm  systems,  80,  90 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Circulating  fans,  88 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Circulating  pumps,  91 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Constant-head  replenishment,  91, 99 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Drying  cabinets,  87,  97 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Film  feed,  80,  93 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

splicing,  82 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Film  transport,  84,  100 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Fixing  baths,  99 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

General,  77 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Irregularities  in,  96 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Main  drive,  89 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Operating,  92 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Solution  replenishment,  91 
Continuous     Processing     Machines, 

Take-up  elevators,  89 
Cross-Modulation,  245,  250 
Curvature  of  field — lenses,  190 
Cut-off  efficiency— shutters,  64,  182 
Cutting  head — disc  recording,  202 


Daily  Rushes,  39 
Danelo,  Blair  and,  47 
Darling,  W.,  50 
Davidge-type,  aprons,  74 
Debrie  Reduction  printers,  299 

„       Sound  projectors,  381 
Decibel— definition  of,  222,  238,  277 
Demeny,  24,  45 
Densitometers,  123 
Density  20,  117,  127 

„     Diffuse,  138 

„      Release  print,  186 
Depth  of  Field,  62 

„    „  Focus,  62,  297 


Developer  Accelerator,  111 
„        Agitation,  103,  111 
„        Formulae,  400,  404,  406 
General,  20,  111 
Replenishment,  99,  1 10 
Stain,  106 
Sludge,  109 
„        Temperature,  98 
Development — sound  film — see  Sound 
Film. 
„  Uneven,  110 

Diabolos — film  transport  system,  100 
Diaphragm  light  change,  156 
Directional  effect,  106,  112 
Disc  Recording,  199,  203,  205,  228 
Distortion  measurement — sound  film, 

245,  247,  250,  253 
Dog-Movement,  45 
Driffield,  Hurter  and,  117,  127 
Drying  Cabinets,  87 

„      Film — appearance  of,  97 

Marks,  73,  86 
„      Temperature,  97 
„      Troubles,  107,  109 
Dubbing  sound,  41,  137,  213 
Dunning  process,  435 
Duplicate  negatives,  41,  141 
Dupont  Film  Stocks,  398 

„        Formulae,  400 
Duralumin  ribbon — light  valves,  210 

Eagle-Lion  productions,  65 
Ear,  the  Human,  199,  261,  278 

„   threshold  of  audibility  of,  223, 278 
Eastman  film  stocks,  226,  401 
„       Kodak — see   also   under 

"  Kodak  ". 
„  „      laboratories,  170 

Echo  in  theatres,  274 
Edison,  200 
Editing,  40 

Effective  slit  width — sound  reproduc- 
tion, 259 
Electrolysis — silver  recovery  by,  114 
Emulsion  composition  of,  20 

„       grain  in,  231,  238 
Exciter  lamps,  258 
Exponential  horns,  273 
Exposure  control,  61 

general,  118,  126 
„        meters,  115 
„        sound  film,  232 
Eye,  the  human.  Persistance  of  vision, 
21 


INDEX 


467 


Eye,  the  human,  picture  steadiness 
and,  170 
„      „       „      strain  and  flicker,  185 

Fade  Out,  62 
Failure  to  harden,  107 
Fantasound,  423 
Field  of  view,  357 
Film  Base,  Manufacture  of,  31,  407 
„     Reflection  from,  244 
„     Stability  of,  72 
Contact  by  compreessed  air,  165 
Definition  of,  23 
Dimensions  of,  39 
Drive — constant  speed  and,  266, 
391 

„        sprocket  design  for,  322 
Drying  drums,  72 
editing,  40 

feed — processing  machines,  80 
„     projector,  etc. — see  Inter- 
mittent mechanisms, 
gate,  27,  55,  59,  60 
grading,  155,  308 
leader  for  editing,  41 
magazines,  37,  54 
narrow-gauge,  see  narrow-gauge 

film, 
perforating,  standard  dimensions 
26 
„      system  of,  33 
„      tolerances  in,  34 
processing.    See  Processing, 
production,  sequence  of,  35 
resolving  power  of,  225,  227 
sound.   See  sound  film, 
speed — mechanical,  219 

„        photographic,  115,  131 
squeegee,  85,  103 
staples — processing,  80 
sub-standard.  See  narrow-gauge 
films, 
„     types  and  uses,  398 
Fire  extinguishers  in  projectors,  173 
Fixing  scum,  107 
„     sludge,  109 
„     solution,  20,  113 
„     stain,  107 
Flicker,  22,  178,  183,  371,  425 
Fluid  flywheel  film  drive,  267,  421 
Focal  length  of  lenses,  357 
Focusing  screen — camera,  55 
Fogging,  75,  107 
Fog  level,  sound  recording  and,  253 


Follow-focus  device,  65 
Foot-candles,  definition  of,  184 
Formulae,  processing,  400,  404,  406, 

407 
Fox-Case  Movietone,  213 
Framing,  projector,  186 
Frequency,  definition  of,  197 

„         range  in  recordings,  217 
„  „     of  instruments,  262 

„         recording  characteristic, 
232 

Galvanometer,  biasing  of,  224 

general,  207,  217,  220 

Gamma,  definition  of,  128 
„       overall  value,  133 
„       value  of  emulsions,  132,  134 
„  „    of  printers,    241,  310 

Gate,  film,  design  of,  27,  55,  59,  60 
„    projector,  173 
„  „        cooling  of,  174 

„    sound  reduction  printer,  330 
„  „    scanning,  267 

„    tension  by  compressed  air,  165 

Gaumont-British    Corporation,    284, 
381 

Gelatin,  blistering  of,  106 

Geneva  Movement  (see  also  Maltese- 
Cross),  179 

Gevaert  Film  Stocks,  226,  405,  411 

Ghost  images,  projection,  186 

Glacial  acetic  acid  in  silver  recovery, 
114 

Glowlamp  recording,  213 

Grading  printer  exposure,  155,  308 

Grain  size,  231,  238,  409 

Green  stains  in  processing,  108 

Ground  noise,  definition  of,  213 
„        „      reduction,  222, 236 

Halochrome  borders — projection,  433 
Hardening  in  fixing  solutions,  99,  112 
Harmonics,  262 
High  intensity  arc,  187 
Hop  wood — persistance  of  vision,  21 
Horizontal  wipe,  145 
Horn   systems — sound    reproduction, 

272 
Hurter  and  Driffield,  117,  127 

Ilford  film  stocks,  406,  41 1 

„    formulae,  406 
Image  spread — V.A.  Recordings,  245 

419 
Insurance  of  negatives,  142 
Intensity,  definition  of,  118 


468 


THE   PRINCIPLES   OF   CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Intensity-Scale,  sensitometers,  119 
Interlocking — selsyn  system,  68 
Intermittent  claw  by  Bell  and  Howell, 
59 
„    „  Darling,  W.,   50 
„  „    „  Mitchell  Camera 

Corp.,  57 
„  „    „  Newman,     A.S., 

53 
„  „    „  Prestwich,  52 

„  „    „  Williamson  Co., 

51 
„  „    general,  28,  44 

„        contact    printers — see 
Printers, 
motion  by  dog  movemnet, 
45 
„  „      „  mutilated  rol- 

ler, 49 
Intermodulation,  245,  258 

"  Jazz  Singer  "  The,  200 
Jenkins,  C.  Francis,  29 

Kasler's  Mutoscope,  22 
Keystone  Effect,  190 
Kodak  "  Business  Kodascope  "  282 
Cine-Kodak  Special,  359 
„      Continuous  processing  by  ten- 
dency drive,  100 
Motion  picture  film  stocks,  401 , 
411,413 
„      No.  6  Machine  leader,  79 
„      Processing  formulae,  404 
„      Research  laboratories,  170 
„       Sound  projectors,  381 
,,       Type  2-b  sensitometer,  120 
Kolb,  Dr.  O.  K.,  206 

Lap-dissolve,  59,  141 
Latent  image,  20 
Lauste,  Eugene,  208,  256 
Lawley  processing  machines,  100 
Leader  film  in  editing,  40 

„      „      Kodak  No.  6  machine,  79 
Leica  cameras,  73 
Leitz  sound  projectors,  381 
Lens,  coated,  438 

„    focal  length  of,  357 

„     projection,  189 

„    T-stop  calibration,  358 

„    turret,  56,  357 
Light  beam  conductors,  393 

„    change  control,  155,  161 

„    scatter  in  printers,  138 

.,    speed  of,  268 


Light  traps,  55 

„    valves  208,  234,  256 

„       „     clash  point  in,  240 

„        „     miscroscopes  for,  236 

„     overload  of,  210,  234,  254 
„        „     rising  characteristic,  240 
Lockwood,  Margaret,  65 
Log-Exposure,  definition  of,  127 
Longtitudinal  wave  motion,  196 
Lumiere-type  cams,  58 

Madeler,  Mrs.  Von,  207 

Magazines,  camera,  37,  54 

Magnetic  drive,  318 
field,  209 
„  field     control  of  carbon 

arcs  by,  189 
film,  206 

Magnification,  picture,  32 

Maltese  cross,  25,  46,  179,  374 

Masking,  projection,  186 

Master  positive  films,  41,  148 

Mean  screen  brightness,  185 

Mercury  discharge  lamps,  427 
„       squeegees,  104 

Metol,  111 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer,  65,  168 

Microphones,  37,  201 

Mirror   galvanometers — see  Galvano- 
meters. 

Mitchell  Camera  Corp.,  57,  364 

Mixing  panel,  37 

Monitor  horns,  258,  278 

Motion  picture  timer,  158 

Motion  pictures — general,  21 

Motor  cue — projection,  177 
„      speed  control,  271 
„  „     projector,  174 

Movietone  camera,  214 

Moving  coil  speakers,  209 

Moviola,  40 

Moy,  Ernest  &  Co.,  181 

Municiple   Light   &   Power,   Seattle, 
U.S.A.,  74 

Musical  instruments— frequency  range 
of,  262 

Mutilated  rollers — intermittent  motion 
by,  49 

Mutoscope,  22 

Narrow-gauge  cameras  gate  design,  345 
M  „      general,     340, 

343 
„         „  „      intermittent 

for,  352 


INDEX 


469 


Narrow-gauge  cameras,  lens  turrets, 

356 

>»         »» 

„      reflex       view- 

finders,  359 

>»         »> 

„      reverse    wind- 

ing, 351 

»>         »> 

„      single-frame 

exposures,  348 

»»         »> 

„      taking  speeds, 

346 

»»         »» 

„      trick      effects 

with,  360,  363 

>»             w 

„      variable  aper- 

ture   shutters, 

355 

„         „     film  dimensions,  286 

t»          >» 

„      stocks,  411 

Narrow-Gauge  Projectors,  apertures 

in,  383 

*»         »> 

„        general,  366 

»»          »» 

„        illumina- 

tion, 381 

»»          »» 

„        intermit- 

tent, 369 

374 

»>          »» 

„        lenses   for, 

382,  384 

91                    »» 

„        screen 

brightness, 

381 

»»                     »» 

„        shutter  de- 

sign, 370 

377 

„         „      Sound  lead,  338 

»»         »» 

„     printing — see 

reduction 

printing. 

Narrow-Gauge 

Sound     projectors, 

film  drive  in, 

391 

Narrow-Gauge 

Sound     projectors, 

general,  385 

Narrow-Gauge 

Sound     projectors, 

light-beam  conductors,  393 

Narrow-Gauge 

Sound     projectors, 

optics,  of,  388 

Narrow-Gauge 

Sound     projectors, 

scanning  apertures,  389 
Negative  curl  in  film  drying,  97 

„       gamma  values,  133 

„       grading,  155 

„       image,  20 

„       shrinkage,  150 
Newman,  Arthur  S.,  47,  52 

„       Sinclair  and,  52 


Neutral  density  wedges,  119,  124 
Newsreels,  sound  recording  for,  213 
Noise  reduction,  226,  236 
Non-slip  U.V.  printer,  150 

Opacity,  117 
Optical  lantern,  23 

printers,  63, 137,  144 

„       reduction  printers,  283 

„       slippage,  314 
Optics  for  projectors,  173,  184,  189 
Oscillating  shutters,  48 
Overall  gamma,  133 

Parallax  correction,  66 
Paramount  picture  corp.,  69 
Paul,  Robert  W.,  46 
Perforating  film,  32 

„        standard  dimensions  for,  26 
Persistence  of  vision,  21 
Phonoscope,  24 
Photo-electric  cells,  135,  263 
Photographic  image,  19 

speed,  115,  131 
Photography,  principles  of.  19 
Picture,  magnification  of,  32,  169 

„     unsteadiness,  170 
Pilot  pin  registration,  32, 47, 57, 60, 303 
Pinakryptol-green,  aerial  fog  and,  105 
Pincushion  distortion,  190 
Play-back,  205 
Polarised  light,  430 
Portable  processing  units,  72 
Positive  curl — film  drying,  98 
„      film  emulsions,  413 
„      gamma  values,  133 
„      image,  20 
„      prints,  37 
Potassium  bromide  restrainer,  111 
Pre-amplifier,  37 
Pressure  pad,  camera  gate,  59 
Prestwich  company,  27,  51 
Printer  factor,  139 

Printing  machines,  average  gamma  of, 
133,  241,  310 
Bell  &  Howell,  163 
„        control   of  travel- 
ling masks,  149 
diaphragm     light- 
changes,  156 
„        exposure    grading, 
155 
general,    141,    425 
„        intermittent     con- 
tact, 143 


470 


THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


106 
107 
107 


108 


Printing  machines,  intermittent  opti- 
cal, 144 
„  „        light-change      de- 

vices, 159 
„  „        newsreel    cascade, 

153 
„  „        rotary  contact,  149 

„  „        sound,  137 

„      Reduction — see    reduction 

printing. 
„      Ultra-Violet,  419 
Processing  faults  aerial  fog,  105 
„    air  bells,  105 
„    blistering,  106 
„    broken  splices,  106 
„    cinch  marks,  106 
„    developer  stain,  106 
„    directional  effect, 
„    drying  troubles, 
„    failure  to  harden, 
„    fixer  scum,  107 
„      „    stain,  107 
„    fogging,  75,  107 
„    green  stains,  108 
„    reticulation,  108 
„    rollers  sticking, 
„    scratches,  108 
„    scum,  109 
„   sludge  in  developer, 

109 
„    sludge  in  fixer,   109 
„    spots,  drying,  109 
„    staining,  109 
„   static  marks,  109 
„    streaks,  109 
„    sulphide  fog,  109 
„   uneven  development, 

110 
„    yellow  stains,  110 
formulae,  400,  404,  406 
laboratory — duty  of,  37,  71 
machines — continuous,  see 
Continuous     Processing 
Machines. 
„      reversal  film,  409 
„      solutions,  functions  of,  1 10 
Processing  sound  film — see  sound  film 

processing. 
Process  shots,  37,  67 
Projection  factor,  133,  138 

practice  committee, 

S.M.P.E.,  170 
rear,  192 
slide,  193 


Projector  aperture  design,  181 

factor,  241 

framing,  186 

general,  169,  172,  427 

illuminant,  187 

intermittent,  177 

lenses,  189 

motor  speed,  174 

narrow-gauge — see  narrow- 
gauge  projectors, 

optics  of,  173,  184 

rake,  190 

shutter  phasing,  186 
„     types,  181 

sprocket  design,  181 

sub-standard — see    narrow- 
gauge  projectors, 

threading,  174 
Pump,  solution  circulating,  77,  82,  91 
Punched  card  light  changes,  161 

Rack-and-pin  processing  unit,  72 
Rack-and-tank  processing  unit,  75,  76 
Racking,  framing,  masking,  186 
Radio  Corporation  of  America,  the, 

150,  281,  317,  419 
Rake,  projection,  190 
Rear  projection,  174,  192 

„  scanning,  258 
Reciprocity  law  failure,  119,  138,  237 
Recorder  characteristics,  237 
Recording  sound — see  sound  record- 
ing. 
Reduction  printing,  beam  splitting  sys- 
tems, 298 
„  „        contact  machines, 

309 
„  „        exposure    adjust- 

ment, 307 
„  „        general,  282 

image      framing, 
306 
„  „        picture  machines, 

287,  291,  293 
„  „        picture   machines 

twin  head,  295 
„  „        picture    unsteadi- 

ness, 288 
„  „        pilot  pin  registra- 

tion, 299 
„  „        sound,  constant 

speed,  315 
„     gate  de- 
sign,    330 


INDEX 


471 


Reduction  printing,  sound  general, 
292,      311 
„     illuminant 

333 
„     magnetic 

drive,  318 
„     optical 
slippage, 
314 
„      optics  for, 

326 
„      reduction, 
ratios,  315 
versus    re-record- 
ing, 337 
Reflection  characteristics  of  screens,  1 33 
Reflex  viewfinders,  359 
Regent  Street  Polytechnic,  30 
Reid,  Tuttle  and,  picture  steadiness, 

170,  287 
Release  print  density,  186 
Resistance-type  light  change,  160 
Resolving  power,  227,  231 
Reticulation,  108 
Reverberation,  time  of,  276 
Reversal  film,  408,411 
Rinse  bath,  112 

Rollers  sticking — continuous  pro- 
cessing fault,  108 
Rotary        printers  —  see        printing 

machines. 
Rotating  carbon  arcs,  189 

Safelight  screens,  88 
Scene  identification,  67,  69 
Scott,  Leon,  200 
Scratches  in  processing,  108 
Screen  brightness,  184 

„     perforated  projection,  191,  273 
Scum  in  processing,  109 
S.E.I,  exposure  meter,  115 
Selsyn  interlocking,  68 
Semi-automatic  light-change,  162 
Sensitometers,  119,  120,  232 
Sensitometry  110,  115,  125,  127,  132 
sound  film,  236,  242,  243 
Shutter,  camera,  28 

„  „     and  projector  com- 

pared, 178 

„      cut-off  efficiency,  64,  182 

„      oscillating,  48 

„      projector,  181 

„      variable  aperture,  61 
Shuttle  gate— Bell  &  Howell  type,  60 


Silver  bromide,  20 
„    recovery,  114 
44  Singing  Fool  ",  200 
Slide  projection,  193 
Slitting  film,  32 
Sludge  in  developers,  109 
Societies — see  under  individual  names. 
Society  of  Motion  Picture  Engineers, 

29,  170,  216,  279,  286 
Sodium  carbonate  developer  accelera- 
tor, 111 
„      sulphide  in  silver  recovery,  1 1 4 
„      sulphite   developer   preserva- 
tive, 111 
„      thiosulphite,  20 
Solution  circulation,  83 

„       replenishment,  91,  99 
Sound  film  printing,,  421 
„        „  processing,  231 
„     lead  ahead  of  picture,  216,  268 
„     nature  of,  195,  232 
„     printers  —  see  printing  mach- 
ines, sound. 
„     recording,  aeo  lamps  for,  213 
bi-lateral,  V.A.,  220 
„  „        film   characteristics, 

219,  225 
„  „        frequency  range,  217 

„  „        galvanometers     for, 

217,  220,  224 
„  „        gamma   values   for, 

135 
general,  207,  229 
„        ground  noise  reduc- 
tion, 222,  236 
head,  37 
light  valves  for,  208, 

210 
on  disc,  199,  203 
push-pull,  213,  221, 
265 
„        sprockets  for,  211 
„        ultra-violet,  419 
„  „        variable-density  pro- 

cessing, 236 
„  „        wave    distortion, 

analysis,  235 
„     reproduction,  constant    film 

speed,  267 
„  „  fader  setting,  277 

general,  256,  264 
„  „  quality    control, 

279 
„  „         rear  scanning,  258 


472 


THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  CINEMATOGRAPHY 


Sound  reproduction,  scanning,  meth- 
ods, 260 
„    slits,  259 

„  „  speaker  systems, 

272 

„     scanning  beams,   buzz   tracks 
for,  416 

„     speed  of  197,  269 

„      test  films,  279 
Spectrum,  the  audible,  261 
Specular  density,  138 
Speed  of  film  emulsions,  115,  131 
Spherical  aberration,  189 
Splicing  units,  81 
Spoor-Thompson  spray  development, 

103 
Spots,  drying,  109 
Sprocket  hole  control  track,  417 

wheels,  25,  172,  181,  320 
Squareness  error  in  perforations,  34 
Squeegee,  air,  85 
Stage  equipment,  193 
Staining,  109 
Static  marks,  109 
Stereoscopic  pictures,  429 
Stock — see  Film  Stock. 
Stop  Bath,  112 
Streaks,  109 
Stretch — printing,  145 
Strong,  Dr.  J.,    438 
Sub-standard  films — see  Narrow-gauge 

films. 
Sulphide  fog,  109 
Synchronism,  picture  and  sound,  38, 

68,  174,  212,  216 

Talbot,  R.  H.,  321 
Taylor,  H.  Dennis,  438 
Telekinema,  433 
Tendency  drive,  100 
Test  films,  279 
Theatre  acoustics,  274 

„       seating  distribution,  170 
Time  factor  in  exposure,  118 

„   gamma  curves,  132 

„   of  reverberation,  276 

„   scale  sensitometer,  119 
Timer,  motion  picture,  158 
Title  card,  36,  68 
Track,  sound — see  Sound  Track. 
Translucent  screens,  68,  192 
Transmission  factor,  117 
„  sound,  195 

Travelling  mattes,  145 


Trick  photography,  435 
T-stop  lens  calibration,  358 
Turret — lens,  56 
Tuttle  and  Reid,  170,  287 
Twin-head  picture  printers,  295 

Ultra- Violet  non-slip  printers,  150 

„        „     recording,  419 
Uneven  development,  110 
Uniformity  error  in  perforating,  33 
Unmodulated  exposure,  sound,  136 
Unsteadiness,  picture,  170,  288 

Variable  aperture  shutters,  61 
„       area  processing,  139,  231 
„  „    recording,  38,  135,  207, 

217,  233,  387 
bi-lateral,  220 
„         „  „        cross-modu- 

lation, 245, 
250 
„  „  „      film  for,  225 

„      image  spread 
in,  244 
„       density  processing,  231,  236 
„  „       recording,    38,     135, 

207,  215,  228,  233,  387 
„  „  „       film     for, 

225 
„      „      intermodu- 
lation, 
253 
Variety  acts,  cue  sheets  for,  194 
Vibration,  195 
Viewfinders,  camera,  66 
reflex,  359 
Vinten,  W.  and  Co.,  100 
Volume  expansion  systems,  417 

„      recording  characteristic,  232, 
387 

Walturdaw  V.  projector  174 
Warner  theatre,  171 
Wave  distortion  analysis,  235, 247,  250 
„    length,  definition  of,  197 
„    motion,  196 
Wax  for  disc  recording,  201,  204 
Western-electric  densitometer,  123 
„         „       recording  channels, 

211 
„         „        speaker  systems,  272 
Weston  exposure  meter,  115 
Williamson  Company,  51 

Yellow  stain  in  processing,  1 10 

Zinc  in  silver  recovery,  114 


