National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


TEACHER'S  GUIDE 


SERVICES 


RAY  BRADBURY'S 


Fahrenheit  451 


I 


NATIONAL 
ENDOWMENT 
FOR  THE  ARTS 


y 


LU 


READ 


RAY  BRADBURY'S 

Fahrenheit  451 

TEACHER'S  GUIDE 


NATIONAL 
ENDOWMENT 
FOR  THE  ARTS 

A  gro.it  nation 
deserves  gre.it  art 


WS    , -INSTITUTE  o/ 

:♦..  Museum^dLibrary 

•V?  SERVICES 


AM 

MIDWEST 


The  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts  is  a  public  agency  dedicated  to  supporting 
excellence  in  the  arts — both  new  and  established — bringing  the  arts  to  all  Americans, 
and  providing  leadership  in  arts  education.  Established  by  Congress  in  1965  as  an 
independent  agency  of  the  federal  government,  the  Endowment  is  the  nation's  largest 
annual  funder  of  the  arts,  bringing  great  art  to  all  50  states,  including  rural  areas,  inner 
cities,  and  military  bases. 

The  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services  is  the  primary  source  of  federal  support 
for  the  nation's  122,000  libraries  and  17,500  museums.  The  Institute's  mission  is  to  create 
strong  libraries  and  museums  that  connect  people  to  information  and  ideas.  The  Institute 
works  at  the  national  level  and  in  coordination  with  state  and  local  organizations  to 
sustain  heritage,  culture,  and  knowledge;  enhance  learning  and  innovation;  and  support 
professional  development. 

Arts  Midwest  connects  people  throughout  the  Midwest  and  the  world  to  meaningful  arts 
opportunities,  sharing  creativity,  knowledge,  and  understanding  across  boundaries.  Based 
in  Minneapolis,  Arts  Midwest  connects  the  arts  to  audiences  throughout  the  nine-state 
region  of  Illinois,  Indiana,  Iowa,  Michigan,  Minnesota,  North  Dakota,  Ohio,  South 
Dakota,  and  Wisconsin.  One  of  six  nonprofit  regional  arts  organizations  in  the  United 
States,  Arts  Midwest's  history  spans  more  than  25  years. 

Additional  support  for  The  Big  Read  has  also  been  provided  by  the  W.K.  Kellogg 
Foundation. 


Published  by 

National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 
1100  Pennsylvania  Avenue,  N.W 
Washington,  DC  20506-0001 
(202)  682-5400 
www.nea.gov 

Sources 

Bradbury,  Ray.  Fahrenheit  451.  1953.  New  York:  Random  House  Publishing  Group,  1996. 

Acknowledgments 

David  Kipen,  NEA  Director  of  Literature,  National  Reading  Initiatives 

Sarah  Bainter  Cunningham,  PhD,  NEA  Director  of  Arts  Education 

Writers:  Philip  Burnham  and  Sarah  Bainter  Cunningham  for  the  National  Endowment  for  the 
Arts,  with  an  introduction  by  Dana  Gioia 

Series  Editor:  Molly  Thomas-Hicks  for  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 

Graphic  Design:  Fletcher  Design/Washington,  DC 

Image  Credits 

Cover  Portrait:  John  Sherffius  for  The  Big  Read.  Page  iv:  Fahrenheit  451  book  cover  used  with 
permission  of  Del  Ray/The  Random  House  Ballantine  Publishing  Group;  fire  image  by  Stockbyte 
Gold/Getty  Images;  Page  1:  Caricature  of  Dana  Gioia  by  John  Sherffius.  Inside  back  cover:  Ray 
Bradbury,  Getty  Images. 


July  2006 


Table  of  Contents 


Introduction 1 

Suggested  Teaching  Schedule 2 

Lesson  One:  Biography 4 

Lesson  Two:  Culture  and  History 5 

Lesson  Three:  Narrative  and  Point  of  View 6 

Lesson  Four:  Characters 7 

Lesson  Five:  Figurative  Language 8 

Lesson  Six:  Symbols 9 

Lesson  Seven:  Character  Development 10 

Lesson  Eight:  The  Plot  Unfolds 11 

Lesson  Nine:  Themes  of  the  Novel 12 

Lesson  Ten:  What  Makes  a  Book  Great? 13 

Essay  Topics 14 

Capstone  Projects 15 

Handout  One:  The  Fifties 16 

Handout  Two:  Science  Fiction 17 

Handout  Three:  The  Book  of  Ecclesiastes 18 

Teaching  Resources 19 

NCTE  Standards 20 


4 It  was  a  pleasure  to 
burn.  It  was  a  special 
pleasure  to  see  things 
eaten,  to  see  things 
blackened  and  changed, 

— RAY  BRADBURY 
from  Fahrenheit  451 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


Introduction 

Welcome  to  The  Big  Read,  a  major  initiative  from  the  National 
Endowment  for  the  Arts  designed  to  revitalize  the  role  of  literary 
reading  in  American  culture.  The  Big  Read  hopes  to  unite  communities 
through  great  literature,  as  well  as  inspire  students  to  become  lifelong 
readers. 

This  Big  Read  Teacher's  Guide  contains  ten  lessons  to  lead  you  through 
Ray  Bradbury's  classic  novel,  Fahrenheit  451.  Each  lesson  has  four 
sections:  a  thematic  focus,  discussion  activities,  writing  exercises,  and 
homework  assignments.  In  addition,  we  have  provided  suggested  essay 
topics  and  capstone  projects,  as  well  as  handouts  with  more  background 
information  about  the  novel,  the  historical  period,  and  the  author.  All 
lessons  dovetail  with  the  state  language  arts  standards  required  in  the 
fiction  genre. 

The  Big  Read  teaching  materials  also  include  a  CD.  Packed  with 
interviews,  commentaries,  and  excerpts  from  the  novel,  The  Big  Read 
CD  presents  first-hand  accounts  of  why  Bradbury's  novel  remains  so 
compelling  five  decades  after  its  initial  publication.  Some  of  America's 
most  celebrated  writers,  scholars,  and  actors  have  volunteered  their 
time  to  make  these  Big  Read  CDs  exciting  additions  to  the  classroom. 

Finally,  The  Big  Read  Reader's  Guide  deepens  your  exploration  with 
interviews,  booklists,  timelines,  and  historical  information.  We  hope 
this  guide  and  syllabus  allow  you  to  have  fun  with  your  students  while 
introducing  them  to  the  work  of  a  great  American  author. 

From  the  NEA,  we  wish  you  an  exciting  and  productive  school  year. 

Dana  Gioia 

Chairman,  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts  THE  BIG  READ  •   | 


Day  One 

FOCUS:  Biography 

Activities:  Listen  to  The  Big  Read  CD,  Track 
One  (16:40).  Read  Reader's  Guide  essays. 
Write  on  Jimenez  quote.  Have  students  write 
about  books  that  have  influenced  their  lives. 

Homework:  Handout  One.  Read  to  page  31 
in  the  novel  * 


Day  Two 

FOCUS:  Culture  and  History 

Activities:  Listen  to  The  Big  Read  CD, 
Track  Two  (12: 10).  Write  about  the 
depiction  of  technology  in  the  novel. 

Homework:  Finish  Part  One  (pp.  32-68). 


3 

Day  Three 

FOCUS:  Narrative  and  Point  of  View 

Activities:  Explore  Beatty's  monologue.  Write 
the  story  from  Clarisse's  point  of  view. 

Homework:  Begin  Part  Two  (pp.  69-91). 

4 

Day  Four 

FOCUS:  Characters 

Activities:  Explore  Montag's  relationship  to 
the  other  characters.  Write  about 
the  antagonist. 

Homework:  Finish  Part  Two  (pp.  91-110). 


5 


Day  Five 

FOCUS:  Figurative  Language 

Activities:  Explore  the  meaning  of  the  chapter 
titles.  Write  using  techniques  of  image,  simile, 
and  metaphor. 

Homework:  Begin  Part  Three  (pp.  1 1 1-130). 
Read  Handout  Two. 


Page  numbers  refer  to  the  Random  House  Publishing  Group  1996  edition  of  Fahrenheit  451. 


2  *  THE  BIG  READ 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


m 


6 


Day  Six 

FOCUS:  Symbols 

Activities:  Review  the  novel  to  identify 
symbols.  Explore  the  Mechanical  Hound 
as  a  symbol. 

Homework:  Continue  with  Part  Three 
(pp.  131-145). 


7 


Day  Seven 

FOCUS:  Character  Development 

Activities:  Focusing  on  the  myth  of  Icarus, 
compare  Montag's  development  to  that  of 
Icarus.  Analyze  Montag's  new  relationship 
to  nature. 


9 


Day  Nine 

FOCUS:  Themes  of  the  Novel 

Activities:  Develop  an  interpretation  of 
the  novel  inspired  by  Faber's  lecture  about 
civilization  and  books. 

Homework:  Work  on  essay. 


10 


Day  Ten 

FOCUS:  What  Makes  a  Book  Great? 

Activities:  Explore  the  qualities  of  a  great 
novel  and  the  voice  of  a  generation. 
Examine  qualities  that  make  Bradbury's 
novel  successful.  Peer  review  of  paper 
outlines  or  drafts. 


Homework:  Finish  Part  Three  (pp.  146-165).      Homework:  Student  will  finish  their  essays. 

8 

Day  Eight 

FOCUS:  The  Plot  Unfolds 

Activities:  Chart  a  timeline  of  the  story. 
Develop  a  plot  for  the  sequel. 

Homework:  "Afterword"  and  "Coda" 
(pp.  167-179).  Handout  Three. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •  3 


FOCUS: 

Biography 


Examining  an  authors  life  can  inform  and  expand  the  readers 
understanding  of  a  novel.  Biographical  criticism  is  the  practice  of  analyzing 
a  literary  work  through  the  lens  of  an  author's  experience.  In  this  lesson, 
explore  the  authors  life  to  understand  the  novel  more  fully. 

Fahrenheit  451  is,  in  some  ways,  the  author  s  tribute  to  the  role  that  books 
and  libraries  have  played  in  his  life.  After  all,  Bradbury  wrote  hundreds 
of  works  (novels,  stories,  screenplays,  essays,  and  poems)  with  only  a  high 
school  education,  an  inspiring  desire  to  learn,  and  a  worn  out  library  card. 

Discussion  Activities 

Listen  to  The  Big  Read  CD,  Track  One  (approximately  17  minutes).  Students  will 
take  notes  as  they  listen  and  will  present  the  three  most  important  points  they 
learned  from  the  CD. 

Copy  Reader's  Guide  essays,  "Ray  Bradbury"  (pp.  4-5),  "Literature  and 
Censorship"  (pp.  6-7),  and  "Bradbury  and  His  Other  Works"  (pp.  12-13). 
Divide  the  class  into  groups.  Assign  one  essay  to  each  group.  After  reading 
and  discussing  the  essays,  each  group  will  present  what  they  have  learned  from 
the  essay.  Ask  students  to  add  a  creative  twist  to  make  their  presentation 
memorable. 

The  novel  begins:  "It  was  a  pleasure  to  burn."  Why  does  Bradbury  start  the 
novel  in  this  way?  Why  might  it  be  more  pleasurable  to  burn  books  rather  than 
read  them? 


Writing  Exercise 


Bradbury  opens  the  novel  with  a  quote  from  Juan  Ramon  Jimenez:  "If  they  give 
you  ruled  paper,  write  the  other  way."  Why  did  Bradbury  select  this  statement, 
and  what  does  it  mean?  Students  should  write  two  paragraphs  on  how  this 
statement  relates  to  what  they  have  learned  about  Bradbury's  life. 

Have  students  write  one  page  about  a  book  that  opened  new  doors  for  them.  If 
a  book  had  a  profound  impact,  explain  why.  If  the  book  was  pleasurable,  explain 
in  detail  what  kind  of  pleasure  was  experienced.  Have  students  present  their 
books,  ideas,  and  conclusions  to  the  class. 


U]  Homework 


Read  Handout  One:  "The  Fifties."  Read  to  page  31  of  the  novel.  Consider  the 
differences  between  Montag's  life  and  Clarisse's  life. 


BIG  READ 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


FOCUS: 

Culture  and 
History 


C  Cultural  and  historical  contexts  give  birth  to  the  dilemmas  and  themes  at 
the  center  of  the  novel.  Studying  these  contexts  and  appreciating  intricate 
details  of  the  time  and  place  help  readers  understand  the  motivations  of 
the  characters. 

Fahrenheit  451  was  published  in  1953,  the  year  the  Korean  War  ended. 
The  memory  of  Hitlers  atrocities  and  World  Wir  II  was  less  than  a  decade 
old.  The  Cold  War,  meanwhile,  had  hardened  into  a  standoff.  In  1952 
the  United  States  tested  a  hydrogen  bomb,  and  the  Soviet  Union  followed 
suit  a  year  later.  A  year  after  the  publication  of  Fahrenheit  451,  the  Voice 
of  America  began  broadcasting  jazz  worldwide.  In  New  York,  saxophonist 
Charlie  Parker  and  trumpeter  Dizzy  Gillespie  inspired  audiences  with 
their  dynamic  virtuosity.  In  1956,  the  U.S.  State  Department  sent  Duke 
Ellington,  Dizzy  Gillespie,  and  Louis  Armstrong  on  tour  in  the  hope  that 
their  performances  would  spread  American  democracy  and  alleviate  the 
tensions  of  the  Cold  War. 


Discussion  Activities 

Listen  to  The  Big  Read  CD,  Track  Two  (approximately  12  minutes).  After 
listening  to  the  first  two  tracks  of  the  CD,  your  students  should  be  able 
to  identify  several  aspects  of  the  novel  that  link  to  trends  in  politics,  music, 
literature,  and  technology.  Discuss  NEA  Jazz  Master  Paquito  D'Rivera's 
comments  that  relate  his  youth  in  Cuba  to  the  themes  of  the  novel. 

Go  to  NEA's  Jazz  in  the  Schools  Web  site  at  www.neajazzintheschools.org.  Go  to 
Lesson  Three  and  play  clips  of  Charlie  Parker,  Dizzy  Gillespie,  Miles  Davis,  and 
Dave  Brubeck.  Ask  students  to  take  notes  as  they  listen.  See  if  they  can  identify 
patterns  in  the  music.  Team  with  your  school's  music  specialist  to  further  explore 
the  music  of  the  1950s. 


Writing  Exercise 


Montag's  television  includes  headphones  called  seashells.  The  "wall  to  wall  circuit' 
allows  Mildred  to  enter  the  "play"  and,  therefore,  the  television  programming. 
How  does  the  technology  within  the  novel  compare  to  our  current  technology? 
Does  technology  improve  the  quality  of  life  for  Montag  and  his  wife,  Mildred? 
Why  or  why  not? 


23  Homework 


Finish  Part  One  (pp.  32-68).  Ask  students  to  consider  why  the  narrator 
introduces  us  to  Montag  at  this  time  of  his  life,  when  he  encounters  Clarisse 
and  confronts  Mildred's  overdose. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •  5 


Lesson  Three 


FOCUS: 

Narrative 
and  Point  of 
View 


The  narrator  tells  the  story  with  a  specific  perspective  informed  by  his  or 
her  beliefs  and  experiences.  Narrators  can  be  major  or  minor  characters, 
or  exist  outside  the  story  altogether.  The  narrator  weaves  her  or  his  point 
of  view,  including  ignorance  and  bias,  into  telling  the  tale.  A  first-person 
narrator  participates  in  the  events  of  the  novel,  using  "I."  A  distanced 
narrator,  often  not  a  character,  is  removed  from  the  action  of  the  story 
and  uses  the  third-person  (he,  she,  and  they).  The  distanced  narrator  may 
be  omniscient,  able  to  read  the  minds  of  all  the  characters,  or  limited, 
describing  only  certain  characters'  thoughts  and  feelings.  Ultimately,  the 
type  of  narrator  determines  the  point  of  view  from  which  the  story  is  told. 

Bradbury  employs  a  third-person  limited  narrator  in  Fahrenheit  451.  We 
know  only  Montags  movements  and  thoughts.  The  narration  follows 
Montag  like  a  camera,  and  the  reader  is  never  allowed  into  the  lives  of  other 
characters,  except  for  what  they  say  to  him.  This  inevitably  increases  our 
sympathy  for  Montag. 


Discussion  Activities 

Reread  Captain  Beatty's  monologue  (pp.  57-59).  Discuss  his  view  that  school 
cultivates  anti-intellectual  sentiment  (p.  58).  Do  students  think  it  accurately 
depicts  their  school?  Do  books  violate  the  idea  that  "everyone  is  made  equal" 
(p.  58)? 

How  might  this  story  be  narrated  in  the  first-person  from  the  point  of  view  of 
a  government  official  that  believes  burning  books  protects  society?  Have  the 
class  brainstorm  the  outline  of  a  new  version  of  Fahrenheit  451  told  from  this 
perspective. 


Writing  Exercise 


Clarisse  says:  "People  don't  talk  about  anything  ...  nobody  says  anything 

different  from  anyone  else My  uncle  says  it  was  different  once"  (p.  31).  Begin 

writing  the  novel  in  the  third  person  using  Clarisse  as  the  central  character. 

Have  students  write  a  letter  to  Captain  Beatty  responding  to  his  ideas  about 
education  and  his  charge  that  "a  book  is  a  loaded  gun"  (p.  58).  Do  they  agree 
or  disagree  with  his  ideas?  In  the  letter,  students  should  explain  their  own  ideas 
about  education  and  the  value  of  books. 


U]  Homework 


Begin  Part  Two  (pp.  69-91).  Five  significant  characters  have  been  introduced: 
Montag,  Clarisse,  Mildred,  Beatty,  and  Faber.  Have  students  make  lists  of  what 
motivates  each  of  these  characters. 


6  "  THE  BIG  READ 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


fA 


Lesson  Four 


FOCUS: 

Characters 


The  central  character  in  a  work  of  literature  is  called  the  protagonist. 
The  protagonist  usually  initiates  the  main  action  of  the  story  and  often 
overcomes  a  Haw,  such  as  weakness  or  ignorance,  to  achieve  a  new 
understanding  by  the  works  end.  A  protagonist  who  acts  with  great  honor 
or  courage  may  be  called  a  hero.  An  antihero  is  a  protagonist  lacking 
these  qualities.  Instead  of  being  dignified,  brave,  idealistic,  or  purposeful, 
the  antihero  may  be  cowardly,  self-interested,  or  weak.  The  protagonists 
journey  is  enriched  by  encounters  with  characters  who  hold  differing 
beliefs.  One  such  character  type,  a  foil,  has  traits  that  contrast  with  the 
protagonist's  and  highlight  important  features  of  the  main  character's 
personality.  The  most  important  foil,  the  antagonist,  opposes 
the  protagonist,  barring  or  complicating  his  or  her  success. 

Captain  Beatty,  the  fire  chief,  is  a  key  foil  and  a  historian  of  sorts.  While 
Montag  once  followed  Beatty's  values,  he  now  resists  Beatty's  commitment 
to  burning  books.  Meanwhile,  Faber  represents  a  musty,  academic  link 
to  the  past.  Clarisse  McClellan,  a  teenager,  longs  for  the  romantic  days  of 
front  porches  and  rocking  chairs,  complaining,  "we  never  ask  questions." 
Mildred,  the  model  citizen,  attempts  suicide  while  living  in  a  world 
enchanted  by  television. 


Discussion  Activities 

Divide  the  class  into  groups  to  examine  the  role  of  foils  in  the  novel.  Assign  each 
group  a  character:  Mildred,  Clarisse,  Faber,  or  Beatty.  Ask  students  to  review  the 
first  ninety-one  pages  of  the  novel  and  look  for  occasions  when  this  character 
brings  out  dramatic  responses  from  Montag.  How  does  the  character  lead 
Montag  toward  self-realization?  How  does  Montag's  relationship  to  the  character 
change?  Have  students  present  their  conclusions  to  the  class,  using  specific 
textual  support. 


Writing  Exercise 


Students  have  examined  many  dimensions  of  the  protagonist  by  exploring 
secondary  characters.  Have  students  write  two  pages  on  the  character  they 
believe  to  be  the  antagonist.  Why  is  this  character  opposed  to  Montag?  How 
does  this  character  force  him  to  reevaluate  himself?  Remind  students  to  use 
passages  from  the  text  to  support  their  conclusions. 


23  Homework 


Finish  Part  Two  (pp.  91-110).  Students  will  write  one  page  explaining  why 
Bradbury  chose  either  "The  Hearth  and  the  Salamander"  or  "The  Sieve  and 
the  Sand"  as  a  section  title.  In  their  essays,  students  should  explain  what  this 
title  means. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •  7 


Lesson  Five 


Writers  use  figurative  language  such  as  imagery,  similes,  and  metaphors 
to  help  the  reader  visualize  and  experience  events  and  emotions  in  a  story. 
Imagery — a  word  or  phrase  that  refers  to  sensory  experience  (sight,  sound, 
smell,  touch,  or  taste) — helps  create  a  physical  experience  for  the  reader  and 
adds  immediacy  to  literary  language. 

Some  figurative  language  asks  us  to  stretch  our  imaginations,  finding  the 
likeness  in  seemingly  unrelated  things.  Simile  is  a  comparison  of  two 
things  that  initially  seem  quite  different  but  are  shown  to  have  significant 
resemblance.  Similes  employ  connective  words,  usually  "like,"  "as,"  "than," 
or  a  verb  such  as  "resembles."  A  metaphor  is  a  statement  that  one  thing  is 
something  else  that,  in  a  literal  sense,  it  is  not.  By  asserting  that  a  thing  is 
something  else,  a  metaphor  creates  a  close  association  that  underscores  an 
important  similarity  between  these  two  things. 


Discussion  Activities 

Begin  the  discussion  by  exploring  student  responses  to  the  homework.  Why  did 
Bradbury  use  "The  Hearth  and  the  Salamander"  and  "The  Sieve  and  the  Sand" 
as  section  titles?  How  does  this  deepen  your  interpretation  of  these  sections? 

What  does  figurative  language  ask  of  the  reader?  Does  exploring  a  novel's 
figurative  language  train  us  in  precisely  the  thinking  that  Beatty  hates?  Why  or 
why  not? 


Writing  Exercise 


Have  students  write  a  paragraph  about  their  favorite  place  using  the  techniques 
reviewed  in  class:  imagery,  simile,  and  metaphor.  Vary  this  exercise  by  assigning 
three  paragraphs,  with  each  paragraph  using  a  different  technique. 


E3  Homework 


Read  pp.  111-130.  Read  Handout  Two.  Note  the  descriptions  of  the  Mechanical 
Hound.  How  is  the  Mechanical  Hound  a  symbol  of  something  else?  Are  there 
other  images  in  the  reading  that  could  be  symbols? 


8  •  THE  BIG  REAE 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


FOCUS: 

Symbols 


Symbols  are  persons,  places,  or  things  in  a  narrative  that  have  significance 
beyond  a  literal  understanding.  The  craft  of  storytelling  depends  on 
symbols  to  present  ideas  and  point  toward  new  meanings.  Most  frequently, 
a  specific  object  will  be  used  to  refer  to  (or  symbolize)  a  more  abstract 
concept.  The  repeated  appearance  of  an  object  suggests  a  non-literal,  or 
figurative,  meaning  attached  to  the  object.  Symbols  are  often  found  in 
the  books  title,  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  story,  within  a  profound 
action,  or  in  the  name  or  personality  of  a  character.  The  life  of  a  novel  is 
perpetuated  by  generations  of  readers  interpreting  and  reinterpreting  the 
main  symbols.  By  identifying  and  understanding  symbols,  readers  can 
reveal  new  interpretations  of  the  novel. 

Bradbury  repeats  and  expands  certain  images.  Front  porches  and  rocking 
chairs  symbolize  the  past,  a  time  when  people  intermingled  without  the 
distraction  of  electronic  screens.  The  Mechanical  Hound,  an  especially 
important  symbol,  represents  Montag's  modern  world  and  the  deadly 
possibilities  around  every  corner. 


Discussion  Activities 

Bradbury  writes,  "The  books  leapt  and  danced  like  roasted  birds,  their  wings 
ablaze  with  red  and  yellow  feathers"  (p.  117).  Divide  the  class  into  groups  that 
will  examine  twenty-page  segments  of  the  book,  starting  at  the  beginning.  Each 
group  will  present  the  symbols  that  appear  in  its  section.  Students  should  be 
especially  attentive  to  the  way  Bradbury  uses  fire  and  books  both  literally  and 
symbolically. 


Writing  Exercise 

Reread  the  detailed  description  of  the  Hound  (p.  24)  and  the  battle  (p.  120). 
Why  might  Montag's  expression  of  affection  to  the  Hound  mark  a  turning  point 
in  his  development?  What  role  does  affection  play  in  this  world?  What  might  be 
the  significance  of  Montag's  final  battle  with  the  Hound?  Finally,  how  might  the 
Mechanical  Hound  be  a  symbol  for  Montag's  world? 

Ask  students  to  write  about  a  conflict  in  our  world.  They  should  explain  the 
details  of  this  conflict.  Have  students  then  develop  a  symbol  to  capture  its 
complexity. 


EJ  Homework 


Read  pp.  131-145.  Ask  students  to  think  about  what  kind  of  transformation 
Montag  has  experienced  and  consider  whether  anyone  else  in  the  novel  has 
undergone  a  similar  journey. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts  THE  BIG  READ  •  9 


Lesson  Seven 


FOCUS: 

Character 
Development 


Novels  trace  the  development  of  characters  who  encounter  a  series  of 
challenges.  Most  characters  contain  a  complex  balance  of  virtues  and  vices. 
Internal  and  external  forces  require  characters  to  question  themselves, 
overcome  fears,  or  reconsider  dreams.  The  protagonist  may  undergo 
profound  change.  A  close  study  of  character  development  maps,  in  each 
character,  the  evolution  of  motivation,  personality,  and  belief.  The  tension 
between  a  character's  strengths  and  weaknesses  keeps  the  reader  guessing 
about  what  might  happen  next  and  the  protagonist's  eventual  success 
or  failure. 

Montag  questions  whether  his  profession  is  justified  and  whether  the  values 
he  has  held  so  dear — burning  books  and  all  it  implies — are  wrong.  Mrs. 
Hudson  forces  Montag  to  question  whether  his  life  might  be  fundamentally 
improved  by  reading.  Is  he  missing  something  invaluable?  He  then 
repudiates  his  profession.  He  does  so  partly  through  the  intercession  of 
Clarisse  and  Faber,  messengers  from  a  world  he  barely  understands.  The 
narrator  explains,  "Even  now  he  could  feel  the  start  of  the  long  journey, 
the  leave-taking,  the  going-away  from  the  self  he  had  been"  (p.  103).  By 
the  end  of  the  novel,  Montag  has  been  profoundly  changed.  As  a  three- 
dimensional  character,  Montag  has  an  inner  and  an  outer  life  unlike  the 
two-dimensional  portraits  of  other  characters. 


Discussion  Activities 

In  Part  Three,  Beatty  explains  "Old  Montag  wanted  to  fly  near  the  sun  and  now 
that  he's  burnt  his  damn  wings,  he  wonders  why.  Didn't  I  hint  enough  when  I 
sent  the  Hound  around  your  place?"  (p.  113).  Beatty  refers  to  the  myth  of  Icarus, 
told  in  Ovid's  first-century  poem  The  Metamorphoses.  A  version  can  be  found  at 
www.loggia.com/myth/daedalus.html.  Ask  students  why  Bradbury  compares  Montag 
to  Icarus.  How  does  this  shed  light  on  Montag's  development? 


Writing  Exercise 


As  Montag  escapes  the  city  and  enters  the  silences  of  the  natural  world,  he 
looks  forward  to  the  time  "needed  to  think  all  the  things  that  must  be  thought" 
(p.  143).  He  discovers  "He  was  not  empty.  There  was  more  than  enough  here 
to  fill  him"  (p.  144).  How  has  the  silence  and  emptiness  of  nature  proved  fulfilling 
compared  to  his  former  life?  How  have  books  led  to  these  realizations? 


23  Homework 


Finish  Part  Three  (pp.  146-165).  Ask  students  to  begin  to  think  about  how 
Bradbury  has  constructed  the  plot  to  reach  this  dramatic  conclusion.  Students 
should  come  to  class  ready  to  discuss  the  two  most  important  turning  points  in 
the  novel. 


I  0  *  THE  BIG  READ  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


FOCUS: 

The  Plot 
Unfolds 


The  author  crafts  a  plot  structure  to  create  expectations,  increase  suspense, 
and  develop  characters.  The  pacing  of  events  can  make  a  novel  either 
predictable  or  riveting.  Foreshadowing  and  flashbacks  allow  the  author  to 
defy  the  constraints  of  time.  Sometimes  an  author  can  confound  a  simple 
plot  by  telling  stories  within  stories.  In  a  conventional  work  of  fiction,  the 
peak  of  the  story's  conflict — the  climax — is  followed  by  the  resolution,  or 
denouement,  in  which  the  effects  of  that  climactic  action  are  presented. 

Ray  Bradbury  made  choices  about  how  to  structure  and  pace  events  to 
explore  how  bookbuming  can  erode  the  human  imagination.  In  this  lesson, 
map  the  events  of  the  story  to  assess  the  artistry  of  storytelling.  Some  of  the 
turning  points  in  the  novel  include  Mrs.  Hudson's  willingness  to  die  for 
books,  Montag's  confrontation  with  his  wife's  friends,  Montag's  murder 
of  Captain  Beatty,  and  Montag's  creative  escape  from  the  Mechanical 
Hound.  Punctuated  by  an  audible  refrain  of  flying  jets  as  well  as  constant 
surveillance,  Bradbury  amplifies  Montag's  unease  and  foreshadows  war. 
Montag,  like  a  rat  in  a  maze,  turns  corner  after  corner  until  he  finds 
an  exit. 


Discussion  Activities 

In  small  groups,  students  will  map  a  timeline  that  depicts  the  development  of  the 
story.  This  map  includes  the  most  significant  turning  points  but  also  examines  the 
lesser  events  that  build  tension.  As  students  develop  their  timelines,  they  should 
define  the  beginning,  middle,  and  end  of  the  novel.  Groups  should  present  their 
work  to  the  class. 

Have  students  imagine  they  are  making  a  movie  of  Fahrenheit  451.  Tell  them  they 
have  to  cut  certain  scenes  because  of  limited  running  time.  Divide  the  class  into 
groups  and  have  each  suggest  two  scenes  that  could  be  dropped.  How  does 
cutting  certain  scenes  change  the  story? 


Writing  Exercise 


Ask  students  to  imagine  a  sequel  to  Fahrenheit  451.  Have  them  outline  the  sequel. 
What  would  the  beginning,  middle,  and  end  of  the  sequel  look  like?  Then  write 
the  opening  paragraphs  to  the  sequel,  creating  a  beginning  that  immediately 
plunges  the  reader  into  the  story. 


EJ  Homework 


Read  the  'Afterword"  and  the  "Coda"  (pp.  167-179).  Read  Handout  Three. 
Although  we  have  focused  on  Montag  as  the  central  character,  could  books  be 
the  heroes  of  the  novel? 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •    II 


Lesson  Nine 


FOCUS: 

Themes  of 
the  Novel 


Themes  are  the  central,  recurring  subjects  of  a  novel.  As  characters  grapple 
with  circumstances  such  as  racism,  class,  or  unrequited  love,  profound 
questions  will  arise  in  the  reader's  mind  about  human  life,  social  pressures, 
and  societal  expectations.  Classic  themes  include  intellectual  freedom  versus 
censorship,  the  relationship  between  ones  personal  moral  code  and  larger 
political  justice,  and  spiritual  faith  versus  rational  considerations.  A  novel 
often  reconsiders  these  age-old  debates  by  presenting  them  in  new  contexts 
or  from  new  points  of  view. 

As  one  reads  Fahrenheit  45 L  certain  themes  stand  out:  the  repression  of 
free  thought  through  censorship,  a  proper  education  that  values  books, 
the  loss  of  culture  and  history,  the  threat  that  new  technology  may  deaden 
human  experience,  the  constant  demand  to  satisfy  immediate  visual  and 
sensory  appetites,  the  value  of  authentic  human  interaction,  and  the  value  of 
the  natural  world.  For  Bradbury,  our  choice  to  use,  misuse,  or  discard  books 
relates  to  all  these  themes. 


Discussion  Activities  and  Writing  Exercise 

Use  the  following  questions  to  stimulate  discussion  or  provide  writing  exercises. 
Have  students  link  Faber's  comments  on  books  (pp.  80-89)  to  other  passages 
that  reflect  on  the  same  theme. 

Happiness 

"We  have  everything  we  need  to  be  happy,  but  we  aren't  happy.  Something's 
missing"  (p.  82).  How  might  Bradbury  be  defining  happiness  in  Fahrenheit  451? 
Does  he  present  a  new  idea  of  happiness  or  preserve  an  older  idea? 

Knowledge 

"[Books]  stitched  the  patches  of  the  universe  together  into  one  garment  for  us" 
(p.  83).  How  do  books  draw  together  ideas  and  information  so  as  to  capture 
details  that  might  otherwise  be  missed? 

Freedom  of  Thought 

"The  televisor  . . .  tells  you  what  to  think  and  blasts  it  in"  (p.  84).  Members  of  this 
world  have  "plenty  off-hours"  but  do  they  have  "time  to  think"?  What  kind  of 
thinking  do  Faber  and  Bradbury  prefer?  Will  it  initially  make  life  more  difficult? 

Education 

"Remember,  the  firemen  are  rarely  necessary.  The  public  itself  stopped  reading 
of  its  own  accord"  (p.  87).  What  kind  of  education  is  necessary  to  create  citizens 
who  recognize  "quality  of  information,"  take  "leisure  to  digest  it,"  and  "carry  out 
actions  based  on  what  we  learn  from  the  first  two"  (p.  84)?  How  might  this  relate 
to  our  current  educational  system? 


Ul  Homework 


Students  should  begin  working  on  their  essays.  See  the  essay  topics  at  the  end  of 
this  guide.  For  additional  questions,  see  the  Reader's  Guide  Discussion  Questions 
(pp.  14-15).  Students  will  turn  in  outlines  and  rough  drafts  at  the  next  class. 


12  *  THE  BIG  READ  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


Lesson  Ten 


FOCUS: 

What  Make 
a  Book  Great? 


s 


Great  stories  articulate  and  explore  the  mysteries  of  our  daily  lives  in  the 
larger  context  of  the  human  struggle.  The  writers  voice,  style,  and  use  of 
language  inform  the  plot,  characters,  and  themes.  By  creating  opportunities 
to  learn,  imagine,  and  reflect,  a  great  novel  is  a  work  of  art  that  affects 
many  generations  of  readers,  changes  lives,  challenges  assumptions,  and 
breaks  new  ground. 

Discussion  Activities 

Ask  students  to  make  a  list  of  the  characteristics  of  a  great  book.  Put  these 
on  the  board.  What  elevates  a  novel  to  greatness?  Then  ask  them  to  discuss, 
within  groups,  other  books  that  include  some  of  the  same  characteristics.  Which 
characteristics  can  be  found  in  Fahrenheit  451? 

A  great  writer  can  be  the  voice  of  a  generation.  What  kind  of  voice  does 
Bradbury  provide  through  Montag?  What  does  this  voice  tell  us  about  the 
concerns  and  dreams  of  his  generation? 

Writing  Exercise 

Ask  students  the  following  questions:  If  you  were  the  voice  of  your  generation, 
what  would  be  your  most  important  message?  Why  might  you  choose  to  convey 
this  in  a  novel  rather  than  a  speech  or  an  essay?  What  story  would  you  tell  to  get 
your  point  across? 

Have  students  work  on  their  essays  in  class.  Be  available  to  assist  with  outlines, 
drafts  and  arguments.  Have  them  partner  with  another  student  to  edit  outlines 
and  rough  drafts.  For  this  editing,  provide  students  with  a  list  of  things  they 
should  look  for  in  a  well-written  essay. 


EJ  Homework 


Students  should  finish  their  essays.  Celebrate  by  participating  in  a  Big  Read 
community  event. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •    13 


The  discussion  activities  and  writing  exercises  in  this  guide  provide  you  with  possible  essay  topics, 
as  do  the  Discussion  Questions  in  the  Reader's  Guide.  Advanced  students  can  come  up  with 
their  own  essay  topics,  as  long  as  they  are  specific  and  compelling.  Other  ideas  for  essays  are 
provided  here. 

For  essays,  students  should  organize  their  ideas  around  a  thesis  about  the  novel.  This  statement  or 
thesis  should  be  focused,  with  clear  reasons  supporting  its  conclusion.  The  thesis  and  supporting 
reasons  should  be  backed  by  references  to  the  text. 


1.  Explain  why  Bradbury  chose  Ecclesiastes  to 
be  the  material  that  Montag  would  memorize. 
How  does  this  expand  on  other  themes  within 
the  novel?  How  might  this  be  the  right  guide 
for  Montag's  further  development?  Refer  to 
Handout  Three  as  well  as  additional  research 
on  Ecclesiastes. 

2.  Beatty's  dying  words  are  quoted  from 
Shakespeare's  Julius  Caesar:  "There  is  no  terror, 
Cassius,  in  your  threats,  for  I  am  arm'd  so 
strong  in  honesty  that  they  pass  me  in  an  idle 
wind,  which  I  respect  not!"  (p.  119)  Beatty 
mocks  Montag  as  a  "second  hand  litterateur." 
Explain  why  Bradbury  would  portray  the  fire 
captain  as  a  literary  expert.  Why  has  Bradbury 
chosen  these  final  words  for  Beatty? 

3.  Consider  the  symbolism  of  fire  in  the  novel. 
Explore  passages  where  fire  significantly 
factors  into  the  story.  How  does  Montag's 
understanding  of  fire  (and/or  burning)  change 
throughout  the  novel?  At  the  end  of  the  novel 
Granger  looks  at  the  fire  and  says  "phoenix" 
(p.  163).  How  does  fire  capture  both 
destruction  and  renewal? 


4.  Mildred's  leisure  makes  her  suicidal.  Faber 
argues  for  the  leisure  of  digesting  information. 
Beatty  mocks  how  people  "superorganize 
super-super  sports."  What  is  wrong  with  the 
concept  of  leisure  in  Montag's  world?  Does 
Bradbury  succeed  in  establishing  a  new  idea 
of  leisure  by  the  end  of  the  novel?  Why  or 
why  not? 

5.  Does  Montag  kill  Beatty  out  of  self-defense 
or  to  preserve  something  lost?  Has  Montag 
avenged  the  deaths  of  Mrs.  Hudson  and 
Clarisse?  Can  Montag  justify  murder  in 
defense  of  books?  Finally,  do  the  extreme 
circumstances  of  Montag's  world  justify  lawless 
behavior  to  preserve  the  freedom  to  read? 

6.  As  noted  in  the  Reader's  Guide,  Bradbury  has 
suggested  the  story  turns  on  the  input  from  a 
teenager,  Clarisse.  Explore  Clarisse's  character 
in  detail,  explaining  her  motivations  and  the 
values  she  represents.  Why  must  Clarisse  be 
killed  or  silenced? 

7.  Near  the  novel's  end,  Granger  tells  Montag 
that  "the  most  important  single  thing  we  had 
to  pound  into  ourselves  is  that  we  were  not 
important"  (p.  153).  What  does  he  mean? 
How  does  Granger's  statement  reflect  a  major 
theme  of  the  novel? 


14  *  THE  BIG  READ  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


apstone  r rejects 


Teachers  may  consider  the  ways  in  which  these  activities  may  be  linked  to  other  Big  Read 
community  events.  Most  of  these  projects  could  be  shared  at  a  local  library,  a  student  assembly, 
or  a  bookstore. 


1.  Public  Presentations:  Have  students  memorize 
a  paragraph  of  Bradbury's  novel  and  recite 
these  at  a  public  presentation.  Have  them 
organize  a  Big  Read  (or  Big  Recite)  night  in 
which  they  present  each  piece  to  a  public 
audience.  Ask  each  one  to  explain  why 
these  passages  are  valuable.  Discuss  how  the 
experience  of  memorizing  affected  his  or  her 
understanding  of  the  material. 

2.  Parent's  Night:  Have  students  re-enact  several 
different  scenes  from  the  novel  as  might  be 
done  in  a  movie  version.  Ask  them  to  write 
down  their  lines  in  a  script,  but  only  in  order 
to  memorize  them.  Before  each  presentation, 
have  a  narrator  explain  the  context  of  the 
scene.  After  each,  have  a  commentator  explain 
why  the  scene  was  chosen. 

3.  Ask  students  to  create  their  own  science 
fiction  scene.  Have  them  observe  a  routine, 
habit,  or  technological  device  that  seems 
commonplace.  Then  have  them  brainstorm  a 
future  where  this  routine,  habit,  or  device  has 
gained  exaggerated  prominence.  What  does 
this  world  look  like?  Have  students  produce 
the  scene  at  a  local  bookstore,  library,  or  Big 
Read  partner  organization. 


4.  Ask  students  to  design  uniforms  for  Montag's 
fire  department.  Have  them  create  a  logo 
for  the  fire  department  and  the  Salamander. 
Sketches  and  drawings  might  be  displayed 

at  a  Big  Read  partner  institution.  Ambitious 
students  might  actually  sew  their  designs  or 
create  fabric  models. 

5.  Team  with  your  school's  visual  arts 
specialists  and  ask  students  to  illustrate  the 
most  explosive,  vibrant  image  in  the  story. 
Students  should  select  the  image  that  was 
most  profound  for  them.  They  should 
produce  a  sketch,  to  be  presented  and 
reviewed  in  class  discussion,  which  provides 
an  outline  for  a  larger  piece  of  visual  art. 
Allow  students  to  work  two-dimensionally 
or  three-dimensionally. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •    15 


HANDOUT  ONE 


The  Fifti 


As  much  as  Fahrenheit  451  is  about  a  time  in  the 
not-too-distant  future,  Ray  Bradbury's  novel  is 
anchored  in  the  1950s.  Mildred  Montag  sits  like 
a  zombie  in  front  of  a  telescreen.  The  sound  of  jet 
fighters  crosses  the  sky  in  preparation  for  war.  A 
neighborhood  sits  full  of  cookie-cutter  houses  and 
the  complacent  souls  who  live  in  them.  All  of  these 
would  have  been  familiar  scenes  to  a  writer  at  work 
in  1953. 

The  era  following  World  War  II  in  the  United 
States  was  known  for  its  productivity,  its  affluence, 
and  its  social  conformity.  The  economy  was  strong. 
The  technology  of  television,  air  travel,  and  the 
transistor  brought  the  future  to  the  front  stoop. 
The  neighborhood  Montag  lives  in  probably  looks 
a  lot  like  Levittown,  the  famous  low-cost  housing 
developments  of  the  age  that  ushered  in  the  rise 
of  suburbia. 

Although  the  1950s  are  remembered  as  a  decade 
of  peace  and  prosperity,  they  were  anything 
but.  The  Korean  War,  which  ended  in  the  year 
that  Fahrenheit  451  was  published,  saw  tens  of 
thousands  of  American  deaths.  The  larger  Cold 
War  that  lingered  was  a  source  of  constant  anxiety. 
In  the  new  atomic  age,  everyone  was  learning  that 
the  world  could  be  destroyed  with  the  push  of  a 
button,  a  fate  Bradbury  more  than  hints  at  in 
his  novel. 


Not  only  were  governments  endowed  with 
nuclear  weapons,  they  exercised  the  power  to 
persecute  suspected  enemies  closer  to  home.  The 
congressional  House  Committee  on  Un-American 
Activities  began  investigating  suspected  espionage 
in  1946,  and  within  a  few  years  Senator  Joseph 
McCarthy  of  Wisconsin  was  charging,  without 
evidence,  that  dozens  of  government  officials 
were  Communist  Party  members.  Meanwhile, 
memories  of  Nazi  book  burnings  and  Soviet 
censorship  were  still  fresh  in  people's  minds. 

As  a  result,  censorship  was  alive  and  well  in  the 
media.  Communists  were  assailed  in  the  press. 
Comic  books  were  condemned  as  subversive  by 
parents  and  educators.  Images  of  the  "organization 
man"  and  the  "lonely  crowd"  reflected  changes  in 
the  American  spirit. 

For  all  their  prosperity  and  rising  expectations,  the 
1950s  were  a  decade  of  atomic  tests  and  regional 
wars;  racial  segregation;  government  censorship 
and  persecution;  subtly  enforced  social  orthodoxy; 
and  building  angst.  The  social  and  psychological 
problems  of  the  era  are  watchfully  scrutinized  in 
Fahrenheit  451,  a  book  that  examines  an  intolerant 
society  that  seems  oddly  un-American  in  its 
penchant  for  censorship  and  governmental  control. 


16  '  THE  BIG  READ 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


HANIXHJTTWO 


Science  Fiction 


Extremely  prevalent  in  film  and  literature  today, 
science  fiction  has  only  established  itself  as  a  genre 
in  the  last  ISO  years.  Despite  its  recent  rise  to  fame, 
it  has  very  old  roots  in  mythical  and  philosophical 
literature.  Epic  poems  like  Homers  Odyssey,  or 
hooks  like  Plato's  The  Republic  and  Utopia  by 
Thomas  More,  have  elements  of  the  fantastic 
anticipating  the  popularity  of  science  fiction  writing 
in  the  twentieth  century. 

Nineteenth-century  writers  such  as  Edgar  Allan 
Poe  {The  Raven)  and  Mary  Shelley  {Frankenstein) 
pioneered  the  genre  of  fantasy  literature  in  the 
emerging  industrial  world.  But  it  was  not  until  late 
in  the  nineteenth  century  that  H.G.  Wells,  Jules 
Verne,  and  Edgar  Rice  Burroughs  began  penning 
scientific  romances  that  envisioned  interplanetary 
travel  and  alien  invasions.  These  writers  had  an 
extraordinary  influence  on  the  coming  golden  age 
of  science  fiction. 

Inspired  by  Hugo  Gernsbacks  pulp  magazine 
Amazing  Stories,  founded  in  1926,  science 
fiction  spread  throughout  the  United  States  and 
England.  It  moved  from  cheap  magazines  devoted 
to  futuristic  stories  to  a  legitimate  branch  of 
literature  with  the  plot,  characters,  and  themes  of 
major  novels.  In  so  doing,  a  whole  generation  of 
visionaries — among  them  Robert  Heinlein,  Isaac 
Asimov,  and  Ray  Bradbury — was  introduced  to  a 
world  increasingly  fascinated  by  the  technology  of 
the  new  atomic  age. 


Future  visions  of  technology  and  science  are 
essential  to  these  stories.  Common  subjects  have 
come  to  include  robotics,  aliens,  time  travel, 
biological  experiments,  and  apocalyptic  disaster. 
Although  a  branch  of  fantasy,  science  fiction 
often  makes  philosophical  statements  about  our 
current  existence. 

Over  time,  science  fiction  has  presented  not  only 
some  of  the  greatest  stories  in  modern  literature 
but  has  foreseen  many  developments  that  define 
the  contemporary  world.  Writers  such  as  George 
Orwell,  Aldous  Huxley,  Kurt  Vonnegut,  and 
Michael  Crichton  have,  like  Bradbury,  practiced 
social  criticism  and  sometimes  prophecy  that  has 
made  them  favorites  around  the  world. 

Science  fiction  has  come  to  embrace  a  wide  diversity 
of  writers  and  approaches.  C.S.  Lewis  used  the 
genre  as  a  medium  for  religious  allegory.  In  The 
Handmaid's  Tale,  Margaret  Atwood  imagines 
a  dangerous  future  world  from  a  feminist  point 
of  view.  And  writers  like  Samuel  R.  Delany  and 
Octavia  Butler  have  created  African  American 
characters  within  a  genre  that  has  come  a  long  way 
since  Frankenstein. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •    |7 


HANDOUT  THREE 


The  Book  of  Ecclesiastes 


When  Guy  Montag  meets  Granger,  he  is 
introduced  to  a  community  in  which  each  member 
is  dedicated  to  learning  a  book  by  heart.  Their 
purpose  is  to  commit  whole  texts  to  memory  and 
pass  them  down  to  future  generations,  surviving 
the  "Dark  Age"  of  atomic  war  and  government 
censorship. 

Montag  chooses  the  book  of  Ecclesiastes,  a  text 
from  the  biblical  Old  Testament  probably  written 
about  the  third  century  BC.  Narrated  by  the 
"Teacher"  who  is  traditionally  considered  to  be 
King  Solomon,  Ecclesiastes  is  a  wonderfully  diverse 
collection  of  advice  on  matters  including  good  and 
evil,  temptation  and  vice,  love  and  hate,  vanity,  and 
wisdom.  Along  with  the  Old  Testament  books  of 
Job  and  Proverbs,  Ecclesiastes  is  an  essential  part  of 
the  wisdom  literature  of  early  Jewish  philosophy. 

A  philosophical  essay  rather  than  a  narrative  or 
history,  Ecclesiastes  offers  ambiguous  guidance 
about  the  nature  of  the  world.  Its  tone  changes 
throughout;  it  is  merciful,  skeptical,  loving,  cynical, 
sorrowful,  and  ecstatic.  As  one  of  its  most  famous 
passages  says,  there  is  "a  time  to  rend  and  a  time  to 
sew;  a  time  to  keep  silence,  and  a  time  to  speak;  a 
time  to  love  and  a  time  to  hate"  (3:7-8).  Ecclesiastes 
does  not  provide  any  easy  answers. 


Ultimately,  this  very  short  book  is  an  endorsement 
of  concrete  human  experience  rather  than  dogmatic 
abstraction.  The  Teacher  asserts  that  one  should 
experience  life  as  fully  as  possible,  even  if  death  and 
God's  judgment  are  final.  The  use  of  simple  and 
concrete  imagery  is  a  call  to  experience  all  one  can 
while  learning  that  the  difference  between  good 
and  evil  is  not  to  be  fully  divined  by  mere  mortals. 

The  prominent  themes  of  wisdom  and  mercy  in 
Ecclesiastes  make  the  book  a  fitting  choice  for 
Montag  to  learn.  This  is  not  a  text  that  lends  itself 
to  systematic  answers.  It  is,  in  a  sense,  a  book  to 
stand  for  all  books,  which  in  their  entirety  give  a 
loud  chorus  of  voices,  the  voices  that  the  firemen 
in  Fahrenheit  451  wanted  to  extinguish  in  the 
first  place. 


I  8  '  THE  BIG  READ  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


Printed  Resources 

Aggelis,  Steven  L,  ed.  Conversations  with  Ray  Bradbury. 
Jackson:  University  Press  of  Mississippi,  2004. 

Bloom,  Harold,  ed.  Ray  Bradbury.  Philadelphia:  Chelsea 
House  Publishers,  2000. 

de  Koster.  Katie,  ed.  Readings  on  Fahrenheit  451. 
San  Diego:  Greenhaven  Press,  2000. 

Eller,  Jonathan,  and  William  Touponce.  Ray  Bradbury:  The 
Life  of  Fiction.  Kent,  OH:  Kent  State  University  Press,  2004. 

Mengeling,  Marvin.  Red  Planet,  Flaming  Phoenix,  Green  Town: 
Some  Early  Bradbury  Revisited.  Bloomington:  1st  Books 
Library,  2002. 

Re  id,  Robin  Anne.  Ray  Bradbury:  A  Critical  Companion. 
Westport,  CT:  Greenwood  Press,  2000. 

Weist,  Jerry.  Bradbury:  An  Illustrated  Life:  A  Journey  to  Far 
Metaphor.  New  York:  William  Morrow,  2002. 

Weller,  Sam.  The  Bradbury  Chronicles:  The  Life  of  Ray 
Bradbury.  New  York:  William  Morrow,  2005. 


Web  sites 

www.raybradbury.com 

This  is  the  official  web  site  on  Bradbury,  maintained  by 

HarperCollins  publishers. 

www.spaceagecity.com/bradbury 

This  is  a  privately  maintained  site  with  considerable 

information  on  Bradbury  and  his  writing  career. 

www.raybradburyonline.com 

This  is  a  private  site  with  valuable,  but  not  quite  up-to- 
date,  bibliographies. 


National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


THE  BIG  READ  •    19 


t 


CTE  Standards 


National  Council  of  Teachers  of  English  (NCTE)  Standards" 


6.  Students  apply  knowledge  of  language 
structure,  language  conventions  (e.g.,  spelling 
and  punctuation),  media  techniques,  figurative 
language,  and  genre  to  create,  critique,  and 
discuss  print  and  non-print  texts. 

7.  Students  conduct  research  on  issues  and 
interests  by  generating  ideas  and  questions,  and 
by  posing  problems.  They  gather,  evaluate,  and 
synthesize  data  from  a  variety  of  sources  (e.g., 
print  and  non-print  texts,  artifacts,  people)  to 
communicate  their  discoveries  in  ways  that  suit 
their  purpose  and  audience. 

8.  Students  use  a  variety  of  technological  and 
information  resources  (e.g.,  libraries,  databases, 
computer  networks,  video)  to  gather  and 
synthesize  information  and  to  create  and 
communicate  knowledge. 

9.  Students  develop  an  understanding  of  and 
respect  for  diversity  in  language  use,  patterns, 
and  dialects  across  cultures,  ethnic  groups, 
geographic  regions,  and  social  roles. 

1 0.  Students  whose  first  language  is  not  English 
make  use  of  their  first  language  to  develop 
competency  in  the  English  language  arts  and  to 
develop  understanding  of  content  across  the 
curriculum. 

11.  Students  participate  as  knowledgeable, 
reflective,  creative,  and  critical  members  of  a 
variety  of  literary  communities. 

12.  Students  use  spoken,  written,  and  visual 
language  to  accomplish  their  own  purposes 
(e.g.,  for  learning,  enjoyment,  persuasion,  and 
the  exchange  of  information). 


*  This  guide  was  developed  with  NCTE  Standards  and  State  Language  Arts  Standards  in  mind.  Use  these  standards  to  guide  and 
develop  your  application  of  the  curriculum. 


1 .  Students  read  a  wide  range  of  print  and 
non-print  texts  to  build  an  understanding  of 
texts,  of  themselves,  and  of  the  cultures  of 
the  United  States  and  the  world;  to  acquire 
new  information;  to  respond  to  the  needs 
and  demands  of  society  and  the  workplace; 
and  for  personal  fulfillment.  Among  these 
texts  are  fiction  and  nonfiction,  classic  and 
contemporary  works. 

2.  Students  read  a  wide  range  of  literature  from 
many  periods  in  many  genres  to  build  an 
understanding  of  the  many  dimensions  (e.g., 
philosophical,  ethical,  aesthetic)  of  human 
experience. 

3.  Students  apply  a  wide  range  of  strategies  to 
comprehend,  interpret,  evaluate,  and  appreciate 
texts.  They  draw  on  their  prior  experience, 
their  interactions  with  other  readers  and 
writers,  their  knowledge  of  word  meaning 

and  of  other  texts,  their  word  identification 
strategies,  and  their  understanding  of  textual 
features  (e.g.,  sound-letter  correspondence, 
sentence  structure,  context,  graphics). 

4.  Students  adjust  their  use  of  spoken,  written, 
and  visual  language  (e.g.,  conventions,  style, 
vocabulary)  to  communicate  effectively  with  a 
variety  of  audiences  and  for  different  purposes. 

5.  Students  employ  a  wide  range  of  strategies  as 
they  write  and  use  different  writing  process 
elements  appropriately  to  communicate  with 
different  audiences  for  a  variety  of  purposes. 


20  'THE  BIG  READ  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 


NATIONAL 
ENDOWMENT 
FOR  THE  ARTS 


'Books  bombarded  his  shoulders,  his 
arms,  his  upturned  face.  A  book  lit, 
almost  obediently,  like  a  white  pigeon, 
in  his  hands,  wings  fluttering.  In  the 
dim,  wavering  light,  a  page  hung  open 
and  it  was  like  a  snowy  feather,  the 
words  delicately  painted  thereon.  In  all 
the  rush  and  fervor,  Montag  had  only 
an  instant  to  read  a  line,  but  it  blazed 
in  his  mind  for  the  next  minute  as  if 
stamped  there  with  fiery  steel." 


-RAY  BRADBURY 
from  Fahrenheit  451 


The  Big  Read  is  an  initiative  of  the  National 
Endowment  for  the  Arts  designed  to  restore  reading 
to  the  center  of  American  culture.  The  NEA  presents 
The  Big  Read  in  partnership  with  the  Institute  of 
Museum  and  Library  Services  and  in  cooperation 
with  Arts  Midwest. 


A  great  nation  deserves  great  art. 


:-.i   .. INSTITUTE  ol  ., 

•;.\.  MuseurrhndLibrary 

'•-••  SERVICES 


