


Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 


It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 


Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 


Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 


at htip:/ / books: coodle.com/ 























THE READER'S HANDBOOK 











THE 


READERS HANDBOOK 


OF 


ALLUSIONS, REFERENCES, PLOTS 
AND STORIES 


WITH TWO APPENDICES 


BY THE REV. 


E. COBHAM BREWER, LL.D. 
TRINITY HALL, CAMBRIDGE 


QUTHOR OF ‘ DICTIONAKY OF PHRASK AND PABLE’”® AND “GUIDE co SCIENCE.” 





PHILADELPHIA: 
J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY. 
18809. 


|.° 








9964660 








ws 
R\ 
Sw 
Q 
q 
é 
J 
\ 


o Pe en 





TO MY DAUGHTERS, 


NELLIE AND AMY, 


Chis Volume is Wevicated 
RY THEIR 


AFFECTION ATE FATHER 





PREFACE. 


Tug object of this Handbook is to supply readers and speakers with a lucid, 
but very brief account of such names as are used in allusions and references, 
whether by poets or prose writers,—to furnish those who consult it with 
the plot of popular dramas, the story of epic poems, and the outline of 
well-known tales. Who has not asked what such and such a book is about ? 
and who would not be glad to have his question answered cortectly in a few 
words ? When the title of a play is mentioned, who has not felt a desire to 
know who was the author of it ?—for it seems a universal practice to allude 
to tho title of dramas without stating the author. And when reference is 
made to some character, who has not wished to know something specific about 
the person referred to? The object of this Handbvok is to supply these 
wants, Thus, it gives in a few lines the story of Homer’s Jliad and Udyssey, 
of Virgil’s neid, Lucan’s Pharsalia, and the Thebaid of Statius; of Danté’s 
Dicine Cumedy, Ariosto’s Oriando Furioso, and Tasso’s Jerusalem Delivered ; 
of Milton’s Paradise Lost and Paradise Reguined ; of ‘Thomson’s Seasons ; 
of Ossian’s tales, the Nibelungen Lied of the German minnesinzers, the 
Romance of the Rose, the Lusiud of Camoens, the Loves of Theayénés and 
Charicleia by Heliodorus (fowth century), with the several story poems 
of Chaucer, Gower, Piers Plowman, Hawes, Spenser, Drayton, Phineas 
Fletcher, Prior, Goldsmith, Campbell, Southey, Byron, Scott, Moore, ‘Tenny- 
son, Lonzfellow, and soon. Far from limiting its scope to pvets, the Hand- 
book tells, with similar brevity, the stories of our national fairy tales and - 
rempances, such novels as those by Charles Dickens, Vantty Fair by 
Thackeray, the Rasselas of Johnson, CGulliver’s Travels by Swift, the 
Sentimental Journey by Sterne, Don Quixote and Gil Blus, Telemachus by 
Fénelon, and Undine by De la Motte Fouqué. Great pains have been 
taken with the Arthurian stories, whether from sir T. Malury’s collection or 
(run the Mubsnoyion, because ‘Tennysun has brought thea to the troat 








viii PREFACE, 








in his Jdylls of the King; and the number of dramatic plots sketched out 
1s MAY hundreds, 

Another striking and interesting fenture of the book is the revelation of 
the source from which dramatists and romancets have derived their stories, 
and the strange repetitions of historic incidenta, Compare, for example, the 
stratagem of tle wooden horse by which Troy was taken, with those of Abu 
Obeidah in the siege of Arrestan, and that of the capture of Sark frum the 
French, ». 454. Compare, again, Dido’s cutting the hide inte strips, with 
the story about the Yakutsks, p. 164; that of Romulus and Remus, with the 
story of Tyro, p. $43; the Bhibboleth uf Seripture story, with those of the 
“Sicilian Vespers,” aud of the Danes on St, Bryce’s Day, p. 904; the story 
of Pisistratos and his two sona, with that of Cosmo de Medici and his two 
grandsons, p. 771; the death of Marcus Licinius Crassus, with that of 
Manlius Nepos Aquilius, p, 302; and the famous “ Douglas larder,” with 
the larder of Wallace at Ardrossan, p. 269. Witness the numerous tales 
resembling that of Willinm Tell and the apple, p. 960; of the Pied Piper ot 
Hamelio, p. 766; of Llewellyn and his dog Gelert, p. 369; of bishop Hatto 
aud the rats, p. 429; of Ulysses and Polyphemoa, p. LOO: aud of lurd Lovel’s 
bride, p. ai 1, W itness, again, the parallelisms of David in his Hight from 
Baul, and that of Mahomet from the hon ishites, p. 937! of Jephtha and his 


dauzhter, and the tale of ldomeneus of Crete, or that of Agamemnon and _ 








— 


PREFACE. ix 





undex—few have patience to wade through tliem, and fewer still obtain there- 
from any clear idea of the spirit of the actors, or the progress of the story. 
Brevity has been the aim of this Handbook, but clearness has not been 
sacrificed to terseness; and it has been borne in mind throughout that it 
is not enough to state a fact,—it must be stated attractively, and the 
character described must be drawn characteristically, if the reader is tuo 
appreciate it, and feel an interest in what he reads. 

It would be most unjust to conclude this preface without publicly 
acknowledging the great oblization which the author owes to the printer's 
reader while the sheets were passing through the press. He seems to have 
entered into the very spirit of tae book; his judyment has been sound, his 
queries have been intelligent, his suggestions invaluable, and even some of 
the articles were supplied by him. 








Those verses fotroduced but not signed, or signed with initials only, are by the author of the 
Handbook. They are the Stornellu Verses, p. 948; Nones and Ides, p. 689; the Seven Wise Men, 
p- 898; the Seven Wonders of the World, p. 894; and the following translations :—Luca‘)’s ‘Ser- 
penta,” p. 759; “Veni Wakefield peramanum,” p. 373; specimen of Tyrteos, p. 1047; “Vos non 
tobias,” p. 1075; “Roi d’Yvetwt,” p. 1126; “Non amo te,”’ p. 1126; Marot’s epigram, p. 569; epigram 
en a violin, p. 1070; epigram on the Fuir Rosamond, p. 844; the Heidelberg tun, p. 1010; Dismas and 
Gesmas, pp. 248, 375; ‘“‘ Roger Bontemps,” p. 839; “ Le bon roi Dagubert,” p. 678 ; ‘‘ Pauvre Jacques,” 
p. 141; Virgil’s epitaph, p. 1070; “Cunctis mare,” p. 874; ‘Ni fallat fatum,” p. 879; St Elmo, 
1. 859; Baviad, etc., pp. 85, 591; several oracular responses (sce PROPHECY, p. 795; Woonnm 
Vatts, p. 1117; etc); and many otbers. The chief object of this note is to prevent any useless 
warch after these (rifles. 





CONTENTS OF THE VOLUME. 


Animals almitted into paradise, p.983; animals with human speech, p. 1073 

Athens, the violet-crowned city, p. 1070, 

Authors and dates of dramas, operas, and oratorios, Appendix 1. 

Children of precocious genius, p. 789; calculating boys, p. 149. 

Curiosities connected with dates, dynasties, names, and letters (see M). 

Dates of poems, novels, tales, and so on, of our best authors, Appendix II 

Death by wild horses, p. 1102; death from strange causes, p. 242. 

Dying words of historic characters, p. 282. 

Elastic tents, ships, horses, and carpets, p. 983. 

End of the world, p. 1118; an endless tale, p. 515, col. 2, last art. 

Errors of references and illustrations, pp. 301-7; anachronisms, p. 34; ete, 

Examinations, stock books and pieces for, p. 1009. 

Foote’s farrago of nonsense, p. 727; “ An Austrianarmy .. .” p. 719; Tom 
Tusser’s T totals, p. 968; Stornello Verses, p. 948; “The cipher you 
sigh for,” p. 190. 

Harmonious blacksmith, who, and where he lived, p, 1096. 

Historical, legendary, dramatic, and other parallels, 

Kings of Ireland, p. 1049, art. ULsteR ; kings of England, p. 617; kings of 
France, p. 618; surnames of kings, pp. 511-15. (See SovEgeiens.) 
Legends, such as “The Devil’s Dyke,” Brighton, p. 249; the “ Jackdaw of 

Rheims,” p. 826; the sinner saved, p. 915; and many others. 

Lists of bogie names, p. 675; of noted diamonds and nuggets, dwarfs and 
giants, fools and jesters; favourites of great men, p. 573; improvisators; 
kings with character names, pp. 511-15; knights; literary impostors, 
pp. 469-70 ; of lives exceeding 100 years, p. 564 ; of lord mayors who have 
founded noble houses, p. 626; of medical quacks, pp. 804-6; of the 
oaths of great men, relics, revolutionary songs, ring posies, runners, 
the sagas ; instances of spontaneous combustion, p. 938; water standards, 
pp. 941; strong men, pp. 949-50; the ill-fated Stuarts, p. 950; sum- 
monses to death, p. 954; famous swimmers, p. 964; United States of 
America, p. 30; warning-givers, pp. L082-87 ; ete. 





xii CONTENTS. 


Marriage a civil contract in Shakespeare’s time (see Vincewrio, p. 1068), 

Men with tails, p. 969; men turned to wolves, p. 1114, 

Mimcle-workers or Thaumaturgi, p. 998. 

Musical instruments which played at a bidding, p. 979. 

Names and characters of dramas, novels, tales, romances, epic poems, etc, 

Nine tailors make a man, p, 970, 

Numbers associated with great names: as September 3 with Cromwell, p 
90"; number 2 with Napéleon, p. 677; number 7 with Rienzi, p. 892; 
number 83 with the Stamrta, p. 951; number 2 unlucky in the English 
dynasties, p. 1045; number 3, pp. 097-09. 

Jmens of evil averted, p, 1034, 

Painters and sculptors who have rivalled nature, p. 721; characteristics of 
noted artists, pp. (2l—2g. 

Parallel tales: as Perrette and her milk-pail, p. 763; Scogan’s jest, p. 878; 
the “ House that Jack built,” p. 456; Parnell’s Hermit, p. 440; Wolsey’s 
remark, “ Had I but served my God...” p. #91; Shylock and Samp- 
eoa Ceneda, p. 907; sir Philip Sidney at Zutphen, Alexander, and David, 
p. 908; Ali Baba or the Forty Thieves and Tycho in German “ history,” 
p. 1046; Don Quixvte and the flock of sheep, p. #01; William Tell and 
the apple, p. 980; Trajan, Hadrian, and Philip, with importunate 
women, 1022. and scores of others, 





—— A ST ——we te © es Ge ee ee ee 


CONTENTS. siil 





Stimulants used by public actors and orators, p. 946. 

Stock Exchange nicknames, p. 946, 

Street nomenclature. 

Striking lines of noted authors, and sayings of great men. 

Superstitions and traditions about animals, precious stones, etc., pp. 955-61. 

Thieves screened by kings, p. 992; thieves of historic note, pp. 993-94; the 
penitent and impenitent, 248. 

The Times newspaper, p. 1006. 

The twelve Table Knights; twelve Paladins; twelve Wise Masters; eta. 

Three a sacred number, pp. 997-99. 

Thirteen precious thiugs, p. 994; thirteen unlucky, p. 995. 

Titles and superscriptions of the popes, p. 785. 

Toad with an R, p. 1012. 

Touching for the kiny’s evil, p. 1019. 

Transformations, p. 1023. 


Trees noted for specific virtues and uses, pp. 1025-31; largest in the world, 
p- 1025. 


Unlucky possessions, p. 1052. 

Vicarious punishment (art. ZELEvous), p. 1129; whipping boys, p. 1096. 

Vulnerable parts of different heroes, p. 1076 ; invulnerability, p. 474. 

Warning-givers, pp. 1082-87. | 

Waste time utilized, p. 1088, 

Welsh Triads, pp. 999-1001. 

Wind sold, p. 1108. 

Wines named from their effects, p. 1109; three-men wine, p. 1109; the 
rascal who drank wine out of a boot, p. 1040 (see Tun). 


Women changed to men; made of flowers; the nine worthy; abanduned 
women, p. 1115. 


Wooder horse of Troy and parallel stories, p. 1117. 
Wisdom honoured, p. 1110; wisdom persecuted, p. 1111. 


Wheo ov nage 18 aduen. louk uuder the word with a canital joitla) laser 





THE READER'S HANDBOOK. 


A. 


AA‘RON, a Moor, beloved by Tam’- 
ueen of the Goths, in the y 
us Andron’icus, published amongst 


of 
the plays of Shakespeare (1593). 

(The classic Same Gs We raises but 
the character of this play is purely 
fictitious. ) 

Aaron (St.), a British ma 


Citv of ions (Newport, in South 
Wales). He was torn limb from limb by 
order of Maximian’us Hercu’lius, general 
in Britain, of the army of Diocle’tian. 
Two churches were founded in the City of 
Legions, one in honour of St. Aaron and 
one in honour of his fellow-martyr, St. 


Julius. Newport was called Caerleon by 
the British. 


... two others... sealed their doctrine with thelr blood ; 
Sc. Julius, and with him St. Aaron, have their room 
At Carloon, suffering deuth by Diocletian's doom. 
Dr_yton, Polyolbion, rztv. (1622). 
Aaz’iz (3 syl.), so the queen of Sheba 
or Saba is sometimes called; but in the 
Koran she is called Balkis (ch. xxvii.). 


Abad’don, an angel of the bottomless 
pit (Aer. ix. 11). The word is derived from 
the Hebrew, abud, “lost,” and means the 
lost one. There are two other angels intro- 
duced by Klopstock in Zhe Messiah with 
similar names, but must not be con- 
founded with the angel referred to in 
Rec.; one is Obaddon, the angel of death, 
and the other Abbad’ona, the repentant 
devil. 

Ab’aris, to whom Apollo ve a 
golden arrow, on which to ride thrcugh 
the air.—See Dictionary of Phrase ana 
Fable. 

Abbad’ona, once the friend of Ab’- 

was drawn into the rebellion of 
Satan half unwillingly. In hell he con- 
stantly bewailed his fall, and reproved 
Satan for bis pride and blasphemy. He 


) 1 


of the’ 


rs ' 


openly declared to the infernals that he 
would take no part or lot in Satan's 
scheme for the death of the Messiah, and 
during the crucifixion lingered about the 
cross with repentance, hope, and fear. 
His ultimate fate we are not told, but 
when Satan and Adramelech are driven 
back to hell, Obaddon, the angel of death, 
says— 

* For thee, Abbadona, I have no orders. How long 
thou art permitted to remain on earth I know not, nor 
whether thou wilt be allowed to see the resurrection of 
the Lord of giory . . . but be not deceived, thou cans 


not view Him with the Joy of the redeemed.” “ Yet let 
eee Him, let me seo Him !"—Klopstock, fhe Messiah, 


Abberville (Lord), a young noble- 
man, 23 years of age, who has for 
travelling tutor a Welshman of 65, called 
Dr. Druid, an antiquary, wholly igno- 
rant of his real dutics asa guide of youth. 
The young man runs wantonly wild, 
squanders his moncy, and gives jooke te 
his passions almost to the verge of ruin, 
but he is arrested and reclaimed by his 
honest Scotch bailiff or financier, and the 
vigilance of his father's executor, Mr. 
Mortimer. This ‘fashionable lover” 
promises marriage to a vulyar, malicious 
city minx named Lucinda Bridgemore, 
but is saved from this pitfall also.—Cum- 
berland, The Fashionable Lover (1780). 


Abdal-azis, the Moorish governor 
of Spain after the overthrow of ki 
Roderick. When the Moor assum 
regal state and affected Gothic sovereignty, 
his subjects were so offended that they 
revolted and murdered him. He married 
Evilona, formerly the wife of Roderick.— 
Southey, fouderick, etc., xxii. (1814). 

‘Ab’dalaz’iz (Omar ben), a caliph 
raised to ‘‘ Mahomet's bosom” in reward 
of his great abstinence and self-denial.— 
Herbelot, 690. 


He was by no means scrupulous; nor did he think 
with the caliph Omar ben Abdalaziz that it was nese 
gary to make a hell of this worid tu enjuy paradise in the 
next.—W. Beckford, Futhed (1786). 

B 





ABDALDAR. 





Abdal'dar, onr of the magicians s in 
the Domdanie) cav me, ** under the roots 
of ‘he ocean.” Thi se sprite were destined 
to be destroved by one of thé mace of 
Hodei'rah (3 syl.), so they ge 
the race even to death, Only one 
survived, named Thal‘aba. and Aldaldar 
wasappointed by lot to find him out and 
killbim. He discovered the simipling in 
an) Arnb's tent, and while in pryer was 
alont to stab him to the heart with « 
dageer, when the angel of death breathed 
on him, and be fell dead with the d 
in hie hand. Thalaha drew from the 
Wivicinn's fingeraring whieh gure hiv 
commnnd over the sprite. — Southoy, 
Thilaba the Destroyer, ii. hi. (1797). 

Abdalla, one of cir Brian do Bols 
Guilbert’s slavos.—ir W, Seott, Jeanhoe 
(time, Kichard I.). 

Abdallah, brother and predecessor ; of 
Giaffer (2 syl.), pacha of Abydos. He 
wee murdered by the pacha.—Byron, 
Binal of Abydos, 

Abdal'lah el Hadgi, Saladin’s en- 
voy.—Sir W. Scott, Tie Talisman (time, 
Richard I,), 


Abdals or Santons, a class of re- 


ligienista who pretend to be inspired | 


with the 
divine lowe. 


most ravishing mptures of 


Regarded with creat rene | 





Abra, the most beloved of Solomon's 


concubines, 


Froit ther afoot loef amd meats their teste, 
MW gene Abin feed mot decid the femal ; 
Dishononresd did the sparking eoblet steel, 
Unies received From gentle Abra’s femll; _ . 
Bor qeald my peel appre the qapalc’) Lome 
TH) ol wet boshed, and Abra ming alone. 
ML Prior, Selemen (16e4—-17 01). 


great Macedonian 








ABSOLUTE. 


=e age? GE 


ACHILLES, 





share, could dance, and play either on 
the ribible or the gi s ris 


y spark 
paid bis addresses to . istress Alison, the 
wife of John, a es ee aes car- 
penter; bat Alison herself loved a poor 
scholar named roragersy Rett rer in the 
house.— The Miller's 7: 


Absolute (Sir Anthony), a testy, but 
warm-hearted old gentleman, who ima- 
gimes that he & most angelic 
temper, and when he quarrels with his aon, 
the in fancies it is the son who is 
oat of temper, and not himself. Smol- 
lett’s “‘ Matthew Bramble” evidently sug- 
| this character. 

(1764-1851) was the best actor of this 
M iiglei Alscluls, not Of six Anthony, tt 
love with Lydia Lanuish, the heiress, to 


whow he is known only as ensign Bever- | 


| Bob Acres, his neighbour, is his 
rival, and sends a challenye to the un- 
known ensign; but when he finds that 
ensign Beverley is captain Absolute, he 
declines to fight, and resigns all further 
claim to the lady's hand.—Sheridan, J'he 
Birals (1775). 
Simeon crenata a 
ty, Wo & the fellow lu hie top-koot, 
tote Kempt _ ar ac 
Abu'dah, in the Tules of the Genii, by 
H. Hudley, is a wealthy merchant of Bag- 
dad, who goes in quest of the talisman of 
Oroma'nés, which he is driven to seek by 
a lite old hag, who haunts him every 
night aud makes his life wretched. He 
finds at last that the talisman which is to 
free him of this hag [cunscence] is to 
“fer Ged and keep His command- 
ments,” 


Alw'dah, in the drama called The Siege 
of Damascus, by John Hughes (1720), is 
next in command to Caled in the 
Arsbian army set down before Damascus. 
Though undoubtedly brave, he prefers 
oe to war; and when, at the death of 
aled, he succeeds to the chief command, 
be makes 
houwurable terms. 


Acade'/mus, an Attic hero, whose 
garden was selected by Plato for the place 
of his lectores. Hence his disciples were 
called the ** Academic sect." 

The m retrents of Acacdercs, 
fore, Pleagure of /magination, L 
Aca'dia (i¢. Nora Scotia), so called 
ly the French from the river [Shuben]- 
sande, In 1621 Acadia was given to air 
Williay Alexander, and ‘ts name changed ; 


with the Syrians on 


William Dowton | 





and in 1755 the old French settlers wery 
driven into exile by George I]. Longe 
fellow has made this the subject of a poem 
in hexameter verse, called van'yeline 


| (4 syl.). 


Acas'to (Lord), father of Seri'no. 
Casta’lio, and Polydore; and guardian if 
Monimia ‘the orphan.” He lived to see 
the death of his sons and his ward. 
Polydore ran on his brother's sword, Cas- 
talio stabbed himeelf, and Monimia took 


| poison,—Otway, The Orphan (1630). 


Accidente! (4 syl.), a eurse and 
oath much used in Italy. 

Accidente! ea qal real dire en bon F 
mourir di ot, sana confession §«amund.—Mous, 
About, Tilla (a tale). 

Aces'tes (3 «y/.). Ina rial of skill 
Acestés,the Sicilian, dischm ,ed hisarrow 
with such foree that it took fire from the 
friction of the air.—The Eweid, Hk. V. 

Like Acest#s" shaft, of old, 
The swift thought kindles os \t Mies, 
Longfellow, To a Child, 

Achates [ A-ka'-teze], called by Virgil 
“fidus Acbates.” The naine bas become a 
synonym fora bozom friend, a crony, but 
is generally ueed langhingly.—The#ineid. 

He, lite Achates. falthfal we the tomb, 
Kyrou, fon Juan, |, 130 

Acher'ia, the fox, went partnership 
with a bear mn a bowl of mitk. Hefore 
the bear arrived, the fox skimmed off the 
cream and drank the milk ; then, filling 
the bowl with mud, replaced the cream 
atop. Saya the fox, “ llere is the bowl ; 
one shall have the cream, and the other 
all the rest: choose, friend, which you 
like.” The bear tuld the fox to take the 
cream, and thus bruin had only the mud. 
—A Basque Tale. 

A similar tale oecurs in Campbell's 
Popular Talesof the West Highlands \iu. 94), 


gals; Pols-te 


called ““The Keg of Butter.” The wo 


chooses the buttum when ‘‘ oats" were the 
object of choice, and the fop when *‘ pota- 
toes" were the sowing. 

Rabelais tells the same tale about a 
farmer and the devil. Each was to have 
on alternate years what grew under and 
orer the soil. The farmer sowed turnips 
and carrots when the under-aoil produce 
came to bis lot, and barley or wheat when 
his turn was the orer-soil produce. 


Ac’heron, the ‘' River of Grief,” and 
one of the five rivers of hell; hell itself, 
(Greek, dxor pia, I flow with crief.”) 

fed Acheron of sorrow, biark ond cheep. 
Bad Acoeilton, Posadias Loat, il, BFS (160%, 


Achilles (3 sy/.), the bero of the 








ACHILLES' HEEL, 4 ACRES. 





allied Greek army in the siege of ‘Tro 
and king of the My ne es ; . 
honary of Phrase and Fable, 1 | hiner ren Ls 
The English Achilles, John Talbot, 8 first | Graces used to Tab 
earl of Shrewsbury (1373- 1453), 1 Acidalia 
The duke of Wellington is #0 Galled 
sometimes, and ts represented by a atatae Aes ike eam ook 


of Achilles of pigantic sxe in 
Park, London, close to Apsley House A’cis a Sicilian a? . nl lowed 
Gulate’s, The monster 


(1760- 1852). 
mph Gnlate’a, The t 
»), a Cyel an hia 
| ane Ogi), § Oxo was hia rival, 


The Achilles of Germany, Allert, €lee- 
tor of Brandenburg (1414- 1488). ‘ rock 
es) 
blood of Acis was change! into « ri aa 
the same nmatne at the foot of mount 


Aehalles af Rome, Sicin 1g Denuta' tus 
(put to cde ath #.c. 450). 

aa We ah om 
awe Ww. me nad (Sr Phos tue’ the Gar 


Achilles’ Heel, the vulnerable part. 
Tt iw suid that when Thetis dipped ber son 
in the nver Styx to make hin Involner- 
able, she held him by the bee), and the 
part covered by her hand wow the a 


part bs washed by the water, ‘Thiw ia monwealth 

post-Homerie story, Av'oa (9) “ bearing," tn the New 
. 

_fRevever] lo the Achitler heel to Invulnershle Eagiend | Tpotamen acnne (Low, x.. 17), 


cometh Oy hearing.” The nurse of | 
[fawtA|. Yler daughter 1 Meditation, 
(Greck, a45¢, ** hearmng,') 
WH biths alan frig hh nur we “i careful Aood, 

Witome baton firet fons Like iwiibeat's wool: did tke 


(Sometimes Jreland is called the Achil- 
les’ heel of England.) 

°° Similarly, the only vulnerable part 
of Urlandn was the sole of his foot, and 
henee when Bernardo del Carpio assailed 
him at Roncesvallés, and found that he 
could net wound him, he lifted him up in Acras’ia, Intemperance personified. 
bis arms and squeezed him to death, as | Spenser says ahe is an enchantress living 
Hereulés did Antsw’os, | im the §* Power of Miles "in “§ Wandering 


huitn, 
And et dew have fotere! tenderly. 
Tila Vieteher, fhe Purple [dasa la (1627), 











ACRISIUS. 


This he learnt from a militia officer, who 
told him the ancients swore by Jove, 
Bacchus, Mars, Venus, Minerva, etc., 
according to the sentiment. Bob Acres 
is a great blusterer, and talks big of his 
daring, but when put to the push “his 
courage always oozed out of his fingers’ 
ends.” J. Quick was the original Bob 
Acres.—Sheridan, The Rivals (1775). 

Go Juan's virtue sbbed, I Know not bow." 

Byron, Dow Juan. 

Acris’ius, father of Dan’aé@ An 
oracle declared that Danaé would give 
birth to a son who would kill him, so 
Acrisius kept his daughter shut up in an 
apartment under ground, or (as some say) 
ma brazen tower. Here she became the 
mother of Per’seus (2 sy/.), by Jupiter in 
the form of a shower of gold. e kin 
of Argos now ordered his daughter and 
her infant to be put into a chest, and 
cast adrift on the sea, but they were 
rescued by Dictys, a fisherman. When 
grown to manhood, Perseus accidentallv 
struck the foot of Acrisius with a quoit, 
and the blow caused his death. This tale 
is told by Mr. Morris in The Earthty 
Paradise (April). 

Acte#o’on, a hunter, changed by Diana 
into a stag. A synonym for a cuckold. 
Divatge Page himself for a secure and wilful Acton 

{euckob! } 

8 . Merry Wives, etc., act lil. ae. 2 (1596). 

Acte’a, a female slave faithful to Nero 
in his fall. It was this hetera who 
wrapped the dead body in cerements, and 
saw it decently interred. 

The Actea was beautiful. She was seated on the 
Ground; the bead of Nerv waeon her lap, his nakel body 
Was stretched on those winding-sheets in which she was 
ebret to fad bim, to lay hin in his grave upon the garden 
bil. —Ouida, Ariadnd, L 7. 

Ac'tius Since’rus, the nom de plume 
of the Italian t Sannazaro, called 
“The Christian Virgil ” (1458-1530). 


Actors and Actresses. The last 
male actor that took a woman's character 
on the stage was Edward Kynaston, noted 
for nia beauty (1619-1687). The first 
female actor for hire was Mra. Saunder- 
om, afterwards Mrs. Betterton, who died 
io 1712. 

Ad, Ad’ites (2 sy/.). Ad is a tribe 
descended from Ad, son of Uz, son of 
Irem, son of Shem, son of Noah. The 
tntw, at the Confusion of Babel, went 
and settled on Al-Ahkaf [the Winding 
Sand:], in the province of Hadramant. 
Bhedad was their first king, but in conse- 
quence of his pride, both he and all the 





ADAM. 


tribe perished, either from drought oF 
the Sarsar (an wy wind).—Sale’s Koran, 1. 
Woe, woe, to Irem! Woe to Ad! 
Death Is gone up into her palaces! . . . 
failaround me. Thousands fell around, 
king and all his pesple fell ; 
All, ail, they perished all. 
Southey, Taluba the Destroyer. 1. 41, 45 (1797). 
A’dah, wife of Usain. After Cain had 
heen conducted by Lucifer through the 
realms of space, he is restored to the home 
of his wife and child, where all is beauty, 
ntleness, and love. Full of faith and 
ervent in gratitude, Adah loves her infant 
with a sublime maternal affection. She 
sees him sleeping, and says to Cain— 
How lovely he appears! His little cheeks 
In their pure incarnation. vying with 
The rone leaves strewn beneath them. 
And his lips, too, 
How beautifully parted! No; you shall not 
Ki-s bim ; at least not now. He will awake soon—~ 
Hls bour of midday rest is nearly over. 
Byron, Cain, 
Adam. In Greek this word is com- 
pounded of the four initial letters of the 
cardinal quarters : 


Arktos, . Gpsror . north. 
Dusis, . dvore = gs West 
Anatolé, . dvarody . east. 
Mesembria, peoenufpia south. 


The Hebrew word XIDM forms the ana- 
gram of A[dam], D[avid], M[essiah]. 

Adam, how made. God created the body 
of Adam of Salzal, te. dry, unbaked 
clay, and left it forty nights without a 
soul, The clay was collected by Azarael 
from the four quarters of the earth, and 
God, to show His approval of Azarael's 
choice, constituted brim the angel of 
death.—Rahbadan. 

Adam, Eve, and the Serpent. After the 
fall Adam wax placed on mount Vassem 
in the east; re was banished to Djidda 
(now Gedda, on the Arabian coast) ; and 
the “erpent was exiled to the coast of 
Eblebh. 

After the lapse of 100 years Adam 
rejoined Eve on mount Arafaith [place 
of emembrance], near Mecca.—D Ohsson. 

Death of Adan, Adam died on Friday, 
April 7, at the age of 930 years, 
Michael swaithed his body, and Gabriel 
discharged the funeral rites. The body 
was buried at Ghar'ul-Kenz [fhe yrotts of 
treasure), which overlooks Mecca, 

His descendants at death amounted te 
40,00U souls.—D'Uhasson. 


When Noah entered the ark (the saine writer rays) be 
took the bedy of Adium ina coffin with him, and shen be 
ht. the ark restored it to the place he had taken it from, 


Adam, a bailiff, a jailor. 


Not that Adam that kept the paradise, but that Adags 
that heepa the prion.—Shakespeare, Comedy of Srrere 
act lv. sc. 3 (1508). 








ADICUS. 





a 


ADOSINDA. 





Adicia, im violation of international law, , 


thrusts her (Samient] out of doors like a 
, and seta two knights upon her. Sir 
comes tw her rescue, attacks the 
two knights, and knocks one of them 
from his eaddle with such force that he 
breaks his neck. After the discomfiture 
of the soldan, Adicia rushes forth with a 
knife to stab Samient, but, being inter- 
cer y sir Artegal, is chan into a 
i —S8 Faéry Queen, v. 


*,°* The ‘‘soldan” is king Philip IT. of 
Sparr ‘‘ Mercilla is queen Elizabeth ; 
‘* Adicia” is Injustice personified, or the 
bigotry of popery; and ‘“‘Samient” the 
ambassadors of Holland, who went to 
Philip for redress of grievances, and 
were most iniquitously detained by him 
as prisoners. 


Ad'icus, Unrighteousness personified 
m canto vii. of The Purple Island 
(1633), by Phineas Fletcher. He has 
eight gone and daughters, viz., Ec’thros 


( ’ . daughter, 
Zelos (emulation), Thumos (oer 
Erith'ius (strife), Dichos’tasis (sedition), 
Envy, an on’os (murder) ; all fully 
described by the (Greek, adtkos, 
“an unjust man.”) 


Adie of Aikenshaw, a neighbour 
of the Glendinnings.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Monastery (time, Elizabeth). 

Adme’tus, a king of Thessaly, 
husband of Alcestis. Apollo, being con- 
demned by Jupiter to serve a mortal for 
twelve months for slaying a Cyclops, 
entered the service of Admetus. James 
R. Lowell, of Boston, U.S., has a poem 
on the subject, called The Shepherd of 
King Admetus (1819- _—). 


Ad’mirable (The): (1) Aben-Esra, 
a Spanish rabbin, born at Tole’do (1119- 
1174). (2) James Crichton (Ary-ton), 
the Scotchman (1551-1574). (3) Roger 
Bacon, called ‘“‘The Admirable Doctor” 
(1214-1292). 


Adolf, bishop of Cologne, was de- 
Youred by mice or rats in 1112. (See 
Watro.) 


Ad’ona, a seraph, the tutelar spirit 
of James, the ‘first marty of the 
ib lia aati The Messiah, iii. 
743). 


A'donbec el Hakim, the physi- 
ean, a disguise assumed by Saladin, who 
vieits sir Kenneth’s sick squire, and 


cures him of a fever.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Talisman (time, Richard J.). 


Ado’nis, a beautiful youth, beloved 
by Venus and Proser’pina, who quarrelled 
about the possession of him. Jupiter, to 
settle the dispute, decided that the boy 
should spend six months with Venus in 
the upper world and six with Proserpina 
in the lower. Adonis was gored to death 
by a wild boar in a hunt. 

Shakespeare has a m called Venus 
and Adonis. Shelley calls his elegy on the 
poet Keats Adonu’is, under the idea that 
the untimely death of Keats resembled 
that of Adonis. 

(Adonis is an allegory of the sun, which 
is six months north of the horizon, and 
six months south. Thammiz is the same 
as Adonis, and so is Osiris.) 


Ado’nis Flower, the pheasant's 
eye or red maithes, called in French 
goute de sanj, and said to have sprung 

m the blood of Adonis, who was 
killed by a wild boar, 

O fleur, si chére a Cythérée, 
Ta corolle fut, en naissant, 
Du sang d’ Adonis colorée. 
Anonyme. 

Adonis’s Garden. It is said that 
Adonis delighted in gardens, and had a 
magnificent one. Pliny says (xix. 4), 
** Antiquitas nihil prius mirata est quam 
Hesperidum hortos, ac regum Adonidis 
et Alcinéi.” 
shall I honour thee for this success f 

Thy promises are like Adonis’ gardens, 

That one day blvoin'd, and fruitful were the next. 

Shakespeare, 1 Henry ¥/]. act 1 sc. 6 (1580). 

An Adonis garden, a very short-lived 

leasure; a temporary garden of éut 
Rowers : an horticultural or floricultural 
show. The allusion is to the fennel ana 
lettuce jars of the ancient Greeks, called 
‘* Adonis’ gardens," because these planta 
were reared for the annual festival of 
Adonis, and were thrown away when the 
festival was over. 


Ad’oram, a seraph, who had charge 
cf James the son of Alphe’us.—Klopstock, 
The Messiah, iii. (1748). 


Adosinda, daughter of the Gothic 

overnor of Auria, in Spain. ‘The Moors 
favin slaughtered her parents, husband, 
and child, preserved her alive for the 
captain of Alcahman's regiment. She 
went to his tent without the least resis- 
tance, but implored the captain to give 
her one night to mourn the death of those 
so near and dear to her. To this he 
complied, but during sleep she murdered 





ADRAMELECH, 


him with his own scymitar, Hoderich, 
disguised os a monk, hel her to bury 
the dead bodies of her honse, mud then 
she vowed to live for only one object, 
veuzeance. In the great when the 
Moors were overthrown, she it was who 
mve the word of attuck, ™ Vaslory and 
Decrees ["—Southey, Riderich, ete., 
ni. (1814). 


Adram’elech (cl—4), onenttlefallen 
angels. Milton makes him ovériinowns b 
U'nel and Kapha?! | /arodien Load, vi, 865). 
According to Scriptore, he was one of the 
idole of Svpharvaim, and Shalinene’ser 
introduced his worship inte Samaria, 
(‘The word means “the mighty magnifi- 
eent king.” | 

The =epharriie beret "hele chilies i Gi fiw be 
Adrimelch.—) Aimge avi. FL 


Klopatock introduces him into Jie) 


Messwih, and represents him a #0 poe 
Sar, in malice and guile, ambition 
mischief. He is made to hate very One, 
even Satan, of whose rank he is jealous, 
and whom he hoped to overthrow, that by 
iting an end to his servitude be might 
fonoae the supreme god of all the created 
worlds. At the crucifixion he and Satan 
are both driven back to bell by Obad'don, 
the angel! of death. 


Adraste’ (2 sy/.), a French gentleman, 
whe oncetelea o (ireek slave named Isi- 








| 


: for & i ' Fl : = 
enroamed “The Resolute,” a philologist, 
Holofernes, the pedantic schoolmaster, in 
the same play, is aloo meant in ridicule of 
the same lexieographer, ) 

Adriat'ic wedded to the Doce. The 
ceremony of wedding the Adriatic to the 
doge of Venice was instituted in 1174 by 


| pope AJexander I1]., who gave the doge a 


gold ring from his own finger in token of 
the victory achieved hw the Venetian 








ZGEON. 


hurling at them 300 rocks at once. 
omer says men call him “ #ge'on,” but 
by the gods he is called Bri’areus (3 sy/.). 
(Milton accents the word on the first 
syllable, and so does Fairfax in his 
translation of Jasso.—See Paruilise Lost, 
i. 746.) 
ge’on, a merchant of Syracuse, in 
Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors (153). 


Zegi’na, a rocky island in the Saronic 
gulf. It was near this island that the 
Athenians won the famous naval battle of 
Sal’amis over the fleet of Xerxés, n.c. 
480. The Athenian prows were decorated 
with a figure-head of Athe’nz or Minerva, 

And of old 
Rejoled the virgin from the brasen prow 
Of Athens o'er Agina's gloomy surge 
o- - oerwhelmiluy all the Persian promis! glory. 
Akeuaide, Zyma to thie Nia. 


Z2lia, Leo'lia Crispis, an inex- 
plicable riddle, so called from an in- 
scription in Latin, preserved in [ologna, 
which may be rendered thus into [nylish : 


ALIA L-ELIA CRISPIS, 
Kelther man, nor woman, nor androgyne ; 
Nestber girl. nor boy, nor eld; 
Neither harlot nor virgin; 
But all [of these} 


Carried off neither by bunger, nor sword, fur polenn ; 
But by all [of them}. 

Reither in heaven, nor iu the water, nor {i Lie earth ; 
But biuing everywhere. 


LUCIUS AGATHO PRISCUS, 


Neither the busband, nor lover, nur friend : 
Nether grieving, nor rejuicing, nor weepitiy ; 
But all (of these}— 


This—neither a pile. nor a pyramid, nor a sepulchire 
That is built he knows and knows not | whilicti lit lel 
Ut ts a sepulchre containing uo corpse with it ; 
Kein a corpre with no sepn'chre containing jt ; 
But the corpes and the sepulchre are cud and ihe 
came, 





it would senrcely guide a man to the soluilon af the 
“Sila Lalas Crispds.”"—J. W. Draper. 

Zmelia, a lady of high degree, in love 
with Am/ias, a squire of inferior rank. 
Going to meet her lover at a tryvsting- 
place, she was caught up by a hidewus 
Monster, and thrust into his den fur future 
food. Kelpharbé (3 syi.) slew ‘thie caitiff " 
and released the maid (canin  vii.). 
Prince Arthur, having slain Cortlainbo, 
released Amias from the durance of 
Pea'na, Cortlambo’s daughter, and browylit 

. the lovers toyvether ‘in peace and settled 
rest” (canto ix.).—Spenser, Fudry Queen, 
tv. (1596). 


Aimil'ia, wife of A ye’on the Syra- 
¢:sian mer*hant, and mother of the twins 
called Autiph’olus. When the buovs were 
shipwrecked, she was parted from them 
and taken to Epliesus. Here she entered 
& copvent, and rcse to be the abless. 





ZENEID. 


Without her knowing it, one of her twins 
also settled in Ephesus, and rose to be 
one of its greatest and richest citizens. 
The other son and her husband A‘geon 
both set foot in Ephesus the same day 
without the knowledge of each other, and 
all met together in the duke's court, when 
the story of their lives was told, and they 
became again united to each other.— 
Shakespeare, Comedy of Errors (1593). 


7#imon‘ian Arts, magic, so called 
from /Emon’‘ia ( Thessaly), noted for magic. 

The Asmonian, Jason was so called 
because his father was king of “monia. 


AGne’as, a Trojan prince, the hero of 
Virgil’s epic called Zneid. He was the 
son of Anchi’ses and Venus. His first 
wife was Creu’sa (3 sy/.), by whom he had 
ma som named Asca’nius ; his second wife 
was Lavinia, daughter of Latinus king of 
Italy, by whom he had a posthumous son 
called ‘Ene'as Sylvius. e succeeded his 
father-in-law in the kingdom, and the 
Romans called him their founder. 

According to Geotfrey of Monmouth 





| “ Brutus,” the first king of Britain (from 


whom the island was called Britain), was 
a descendant of A°ncas. 

#fine’id, the epic poem of Virgil, in 
twelye books. When Troy was taken by 
the (reeks and set on fire, -Ene’as, with his 


| father, son, and wife, took flight, with the 
intention of going to Italy, the original 


liirtliplace of the family. The wife was 
lust, and the old father died on the way ; 
Lut after numerous perils by sea and land, 
tens and his son Asca’nius reached 
ltuly. Here Latinus, the reigning king, 
revwived the exiles hospitably, and pro- 
niised his daughter Lavin’ia in marriage 
to .Eneas; but she had been already 
betrothed by her mother to prince Turnus, 
son of Daunus, king of Ru’tuli, and 
Turnas would not forego his claim. 
Latinus, in this dilemma, said the rivals 
tiiust settle the dispute by an appeal to 
artis. Turnus beioy slain, Aneas married 
Lavinia, and ere long suceeded his father- 
in-law on the throne. 

Took I, The escape from Troy ; -Eneas 
and his son, driven by a tempest on the 
shores of Carthage, are hospitably enter- 
tained by queen Dido, 

ll. Eneas tells Dido the tale of the 
woolen horse, the burning of Troy, and 
hia tight with his father, wife, and sex. 
The wife was lost and died. 

lif. The narrative continued. Tre 
perils he met with on the way, and the 
deatl) of his father. 





— =a =— 





#OLUS. 


TV. Dide falls in love with pigent 
but he steale away from re, a 
to ber 


ome ona funeral pyre, pula ane 
lite. 

V. Eineas reaches Sicily, and eelebrates 
there the games in honor of Anohipoa, 
This book corresponds to the /frad, xxiii. 

regions. 





Vi. .neas visits the infernal 
This book corresponds to Odyssey, xi. 

VII. Latinus king of Italy, entertains 
Aineas, and promises to him Lavinin (hein 
daughter) in marringe, bot priace Turns 
Lad heen already betrothed to her by the 
mother, and raises an army to resist 
AL.neas. 

VIII. Preparations on both gidea for a 
general war. 

IX. Turnus, during the absence of 
/uveas, fires the ships and assaults the 
camp. The episode of Nimis anil Eury’= 


alus. 

X. The war between ‘oro and 
Aineas, Episode of Mezentius and Lan- 
sus. 


XI. The battle continued. _ 
AJI. Turnus challenges peas to 
single comilut, and is killed. 


NR —L The @ery of Gino ome! taking of Trop la bor 
rowel from Pieler, a Maowhi ce inion oo 

2 Tie kee of [edo ood Aes ere copied [rom thus 
@ wets ered Jam, lo Apollon 

a The tory af th women hore gil Coe borning of 
Troy are ‘rane Arcee of Mild, 


eee of Bgl ad, Jobn Gay (168% 
etal Fre Jean de In Fontaine 


Lessing (1729-1781). » 


(third century n.c.). b . 


full south, Seago 


Mea i TE St 


long” 
an und cavern. As Aladdin re- 
fused to hand it to the magician, be shat 
him in the cavern and left him there, 
loddin contrived to get out by virtue of 
@ magic cing, and y the wecret of 
the lamp, became it rich, built s 
superb palace, and married the sultan's 


daughter. Several years after, the African 
resolved to make himself master of the 
lamp, and accordingly walked up and 
down before the palace, crying inces- 
sandy, ““ Who will change old lamps for 
new?" Aladdin being on a hunting ex- 
sursion, bis wife sent a eunuch to exchange 
the ‘‘wonderful lamp” for a new one; 
and forthwith the magician commanded 
“the slaves of the lamin to trenenart the 





il 


AGANDECCA. 


similar prover | proverb is, “There are hills beyond 
Pentland and fields beyond Forth.” 


Agandecca, daughter of Starno king 


of Lochlin Scandinacia] promised in 
marriage to Fingal king o Morven [north- 
west of . The maid told Finyal 


to beware of her father, who had set an 
ambush to kill him. Fingal, being thus 


-~ 


a. 
4 syl.), fountain of the 
Muses, at the foot of mount Helicon, in 


ape (3 syl.) the fay. She had three 
wont a birth, Priamond, Diamond, and 
Triamona. Being anxious to know the 
future lot of her sons, she went to the 
abyss of Demogorgon, to consult the 
“Three Fatal Sisters.” Clotho showed her 
the threads, which ‘‘were thin as those 
epun by a spider.” She the fates 
to lengthen the life-threads, but they said 
this could not be; they consented, how- 
ever, to this agreement— 


F 


tha® his may be so trebly wext. 
Spenser, Fasry Queen, iv. 3 (1500). 
Agapi'da (Fray Antonio), the ima- 
i Mehronicler of The Conquest of 
(1889) written by Washington Irving 
829). 


aric, a genus of fungi, some of 

ich are very nauseous and disgusting. 

That emolls as foul-Gesbed agaric in the holt { forset} 
Tennyson, Gareth and Lynatte. 


Agast’ya (8 sy/.), a dwarf who drank 
the sea dry. was walking one day 
with Vi the insolent ocean asked 
the god who the pigmy was that strutted 
by his side. Vishnoo replied it was the 
patriarch Agastya, who was going to 
restore earth to its true balance. Ocean, 
in contempt, spat its spray in the pigmy's 
faec, and the sage, in revenge of this 
affront, drank the waters of the ocean, 
leaving the bed quite dry.— Maurice. 








AGED. 


Ag athe, daughter of Cuno, and the 
betrothed of Max, in Weber's opera of 
Der Freischiitz.—See Dictionary of Phrase 
and Fable. 


ath‘ocles (4 ss/.), tyrant of Sicily. 
noes the son of a potter, and raised 
himself from the ranks to become general 
of the army. He reduced all Sicily under 
his power. When he attacked the Ca:- 
thaginians, he burnt his ships that his 
soldiers might feel assured they must 
either conquer or die. Agathociés died 
of poison administered by his grandson 
(B.C. 361-289). 

Voltaire has a tragedy called Agathocle, 
and Caroline Pichler has an excellent 
German novel entitled Agathoclés. 


Agathon, the hero and title of a 
hilosophic romance, by C. M. Wieland 
1733-1813). This is considered the best 

of his novels, though some prefer his Don 
Sylow de Rosalva. 


distes (3 syi/.), the mystagog of 
the Acrasian bower, or the evil yenius 
lor. Spenser says the ancients call 
“Self” the Agdistes of man; and the 
Socratic ‘‘ demon” was his Agdistes. 


They in that place him "Genius * did call; 
Not that celestial power . . . age Antiquity 
Did wisely niake, and good Agdistes call ; 
But this... wae... the fue of life. 
Spenser, Faéry Queen, ii. 13 (1590). 


Agdis’tis, a genius of human form, 
uniting the two sexes, and born of the 
stone Agdus (4.0-). This tradition has 
been preserved by Pausanias. 





Agdus, a stone of enormous size. 
Parta of this stone were taken by Deu- 
calion and Pyrrha to throw over their 
heads, in order to repeople the world 
desolated by the Flood.—Amobius. 


Age. The Age of the Bishops, accord- 
ing to Hallam, was the ninth century. 
he Aye of the Popes, according te 
Hallam, was the twelfth century. 

Varu recoynizes Three Ages: 1st. From 
the beginning of man to the great Flood 
(the period wholly unknown). 2nd. From 
the F lood to the first Olympiad (the mythi- 
cal period). 3rd. From the first Olympiad 
to the present time (the historical period). 
—Varo, Fragments, 219 (edit. Scaliger). 


(The), 30 Wemmick's father is 
called. He lived in ‘‘ the castle ut Wal- 
worth.” Wemmick at ‘‘the castle” and 
Wemmick in business are two ‘different 
beings.” 

Wemmick's house was a little wooden cottage. in the 
midet of plots of garden. and the top of it was cut owt 








AGELASTES. 12 


aad painted he os battery mounted wi... 2 

the amallest of lowes, with queer Gather wiedgas (by far 

the greater part ol them ghaun!, and e —— 

too mal) fo oot in wh... —_ Pale Op 4 
... The brideo oases plank aod Wore @ 


Naw. 

gievut four feet wide and jou dee . « 2 At wine otek 
every eight “the gum fired,” ihe eu being Mmanted in - 
separate fortres cide of lattice wurk [Tt wee protected 
from the weather by o tarwilia . . ~ Gobeil 0, 
Dickens, Greut Ecpectations, unv. (Lai, 


Ag’elastes ( Vichaecf), the epuie piilo- 
sopher.—Sir W. Scott, Count Nobert of 
é‘aris (time, Rufus). 


Agesila’us (5 sy/.). Pimtanch tells 
us that Avesilaus, king of Sparta, waa 
one day discovered nding -horse on 
im long stick, to please and amore his 
children. 

A'zib (Aimy), “The Third Calen- 
der" (Aratian Nijzhts’ Entertaiamenta). 
He was wrecked on the lonidstone mown- 
tain, which drew all the mails and in 


bolts from his ship; but he overthrew the | 
which — 


bronze statue on the mountain-fo 
was the cause of the mischief. Agib 
visited the ten young men, each of whom 
had loat the nght eye, and was carned 
bv a rocto the palace of the forty prin- 
ceqses, with whom he tarred a year, The 
frineesses were then obliged to leave for 
forty days, bot entrusted him with the 
keys of the palace, with free permission 
to enter every room but one. (mn the 
fortieth day conosity indoced him to 








| 





each time, and she does aa she 
bas been taught to do by askno ring 
the salute. Of course, the young man 
(Horace) becomes ber lover, whom «he 
marries, and M. Amolphe loses his 
“model wife.” (See Pincitwirx.) 

Elie faut (Agnes, She pretends to be 
wholly unsophisticated and verdantly 
eoraatenee = ach J'roverd (from the 
‘“Acnea” of Molitre, Lcowe dea Jenne, 
1662). 


Aqnes (Black), the countess of March, 








AGRAWAIN. 


mant, king of the Moors, in Orlando 
Fanamorato, by Bojardo, and Orlando 
Faurioso, by Arivsto. 


wain (Sir) or Sir Agravain, 
surnamed ‘‘The Desirous” and also ‘‘The 
Alaughty.” He was son of Lot (king of 
Orkney) and Margawse half-sister of king 
Arthur. His brothers were sir Gaw’ain, 
sir Ga‘heris, and sir Garcth. Mordred 
was his half-brother, being the son of 
king Arthur and Margawse. Sir Agra- 
vain and sir Mordred hated sir Launcelot, 
and told the king he was too familiar 
with the queen; so they asked the king 
to spend the day in hunting, and kept 
watch. The queen sent for sir Launcelot 
to her private chamber, and sir Ayravain, 
sir Mordred, and twelve others assailed 
the door, but sir Launcelot slew them all 
except sir Mordred, who escaped.—Sir T. 
Malory, History of Prince Arthur, iii. 
142-145 (1470). 


Agrica’ne (4 sy/.), king of Tar- 
tary, in the haa Innamorato, of 
Bojardo. He besieges Angelica in the 


castle of Albracca, and is slain in single 
combat by Orlando. He brought into 
the field 2,200,000 troope. 

Gach forces met not, nor so wide a camp, 

When Agrican, with all his northern powers, 

Besieged Albracca. 

Milton, Paradise Regained, ili. (1671). 
Ag’rios, Lumpishness personified ; 

a ‘sullen swain, all mirth that in 
himeelf and others hated ; dull, dead, and 
leaden.” Described in canto viii. of 
The Purple Island, by Phineas Fletcher 
(1635). (Greek, agrios, ‘‘a savage.") 


Agrippina was granddaughter, wife, 
sister, and mother of an emperor. She 
was granddaughter of Augustus, wife of 
Claudius, sister of Caligula, aud mother 
of Nero. 

*.* Lam’pedo of Lacedsemon was daugh- 
ter, wife, sister, and mother of a king. 


Agripy’na or ri e (8 syl.), 
a ete beloved Tee" king of 
Cyprus’ son, and madly loved by Orleans." 

Thomas Dekker, Old Fortunatus (a 
comedy, 1600). 


A’gue (2 syl.). It was an old super- 
stition that if the fourth book of the /liad 
was laid open under the head of a person 
suffering from Quartan ague, it would cure 
him at once. Serénus Sammon’icus (pre- 
eeptor of Gordian), a noted physician, has 
amongst his medical precepts the fullow- 


Mesonice INados quartum suppone timentt 
free. 50. 


13 





AHMED. 
e-cheek (Sir Andrew), a silly 


A 
old fop with ‘' 3000 ducats @ year,” very 
fond of the table, but with a shrewd 
understanding that ‘‘ beef had done harm 


to his wit.” Sir Andrew thinks himself 
‘*oid in nothing but in understanding,” 
and boasts that he can ‘‘cut a caper, 
dance the coranto, walk a jig, and take 
delight in masques,” like a young man.— 
Shakespeare, Zicelfth Nijht (1614). 


Woodward (1797-1777) always sustained ‘“‘sir Anire@ 
Ague-ctvek~ with Infinite drollery, aaisted by t! at ex. 
pression of ‘** rueful di-unay,” which gave sv peculiar a 
sest ty his Marp/ot.— Buaden, Le ef siddons, 


Charles Lamb says that ‘‘Jein White saw James Dudd 
one evening in Aywe-chack. and ; iiang him next 
day in Fleet Street. took off his hat, and «.wuted hin with 
** Save you, slr Andrew: ” Dudd simply waved his hand 
and . Away, fool 1” 

A’haback and Des’ra, two en- 
chanters, who aided Ahu’bal in his rebel- 
lion against his brother Misnar, sultan of 
Delhi. Abubal had a magnificent tent 
built, and Horam the vizier had one built 
for the sultan still more magnificent. 
When the rebels made their attack, the 
sultan and the best of the troops were 
drawn off, and the sultan’s tent was 
taken. The enchanters, delighted with 
their prize, slept therein, but at night the 
vizier led the sultan to a caye, and asked 
him to cut a rope. Next morming he 
heard that a huge stone had fallen on the 
enchanters and crushed them to mummies. 
In fact, this stone formed the head of the 
bed, where it was suspended bv the rope 
which the sultan had severed in the 
night.—James Ridley, Zules of the Genii 
(‘‘The Enchanters’ Tale,” vi.). 

Ahasuo’rus, the cobbler who pushed 
away Jesus when, on the way to exe- 
cution, He rested a moment or two at his 
door. ‘ Get off! Away with vou!” cried 
the cobbler. ‘‘Truly, I goaway," returned 
Jesus, ‘and that quickly; but tarry thou 
till I come.” And from that time Aha- 
suerus became the ‘wandering Jew,” 
who still roams the earth, and will con- 
tinue so to do till the ‘‘second coming 
of the Lord.” This is the legend given 
by Paul von Eitzen, bishop of Schleswig 
(1547).—Greve, Memoir of Paul von 

jitzen (1744). 

Aher’man and Ar’gen, the formes 
a fortress, and the latter a guite of im- 
menge halls, in the realm of Eblis, where 


are lodjred all creatures of human intelli- 


gence before the creation of Adam, and 
all the animals that inhabited the carth 
before the present races existed.—W. 
Beckford, Vuthek (1786). 


Ah'med (Prince), noted for the tent 








=—_ = 





AHOLIBAMAH, 14 ALADDIN. | 


giren him by the fairy a 
which would cover a whole amy, 

yet would fold up so smal) that 1 might 

carried in one's pocket, "The same | 

rood fairy also gave him the apple of 
i ciateonit a panacea for all dixeaten,— 
Arabian Nijits Entertainments (“ Prince 
Abmed, etc.”’). dik 

*." Solowon'’s carpet of green whe 
large enough for all hie anmmy to stand 
upon, and when arranged the carpet was 
wafted with ite freight to am 
kin desired. This carpet alao fold 
jote a Very small com pass. 

The ship Sivdadnir bod asimviler elastic 
virtue, for though it would held all the 
inhabitants of Valhalla, if might be 
folded up like a sheet of paper. | 

Kavard, the horse of the four sonm of ' 
Aymon, grew larger or smaller as one or | Francis 
more of the four sons mounted it, (See | Susybodly (1709). - 
Armoy.) A'jax, son of ()ilens | O.?huce), 

Aholiba'mah, granddaughter of | generally called “the less.” In conse- 
Cain, and sister of Anah. She was | quence of his insolence to Cassan’dra, the 
loved by the seraph Samise’a, and like prophetic daughter of Priam, his sbip 
her sister wna carried off to another planet | Was dnven on a rock, and he perished at 
when the Flood came.—lIyron, PO sea.—Homer, Udysscy, iv. 507; Virgil, 





and Earth. | nen, i. 41, 
eh, Sa, ene Bee ee ee ee A'jax Tel'amon. Sophoclés has a 


@ornilpe the aerageh, mod dhecire> Ut hip Leeeortall ty con - ; 
eto bo lowe more pure ood worm ao heer am reel tragedy called Ajaz, in which ‘the 
et oopreeee 6 Conricion that there ip a rey within ber ; an aro ‘ : 

"whice, thous forbukden yee is shina” ls nevertoohens madman” écourges a ram he mistakes for 


» ‘ 
mi... Milewwons lid oman anti =o Book af 











an African magician accosted him, pre- 
tending to be his uncle, and sent him to 
bring up the ‘wonderful lamp,” at the 
same time giving him a “ ring of safety.” 

in secured the lamp, but would not 
hand it to the magician till he was out of 


from the cave, he returned home. 
By means of his lamp, he obtained 
untold wealth, built a superb , and 
married Badroul’boudour, e sultan’s 
ter. After a aay noe African 
magician got ion o lamp, and 
caused the calace, with all its content: to 
be transported into Africa. Aladdin was 
abeent at the time, was arrested and 
ordered to execution, but was rescued by 
the populace, with whom he was an im- 
mense favourite, and started to discover 
what had become of his palace. Happen- 
ing to slip, he rubbed his ring, and when 
the genius of the ring ap and asked 
his orders, was instantly posted to the 
pore bc me palace was in np 
€ poiso e magician, regain © 
jamp, and had his palace restored to its 

original place in China. 

Yea, ready money ie Aladdin's lamp. 
Byroa, Don Juan, xi, 12. 
Lamp, 


erground cavern in ‘the 
middle of China.” Being i 

food, the mother of Aladdin began to 
scrub it, intending to sell it, when the 
Saar of the lamp appeared, and asked 
er what were her commands. Aladdin 
answered, “I am hungry; bring me 


food;" and immediately a banquet was | 
thus become | 


eet before him. Having 

uainted with the merits of the lamp, 
he me enormously rich, and married 
the sultan’s daughter. By artifice the 


African magician got ion of the 
lamp, and transported the palace with its 
contents to Africe. Aladdin poisoned the 
Magician, recovered the lamp, and re- 
translated the to its original site. 
Aladdin's Palace Windows. 
top of the palace was a saloon, containing 
-four windows (six on each aide), 
and all but one enriched with digsmonds, 
mbies, and emeralds. One was left for 
the sultan te complete, Lut all the jewel- 


At the | 





© o_o, 


ALASNAM. 


lers in the empire were unable to make one 
to match the others, eo Aladdin com- 
manded ‘‘the slaves of the lamp” to 
complete their work. 

A n's Ring, given him by the 
African magician, ‘‘a preservative 
aguinst every evil.”"—Aradi Nights 
(** Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp”). 


Al’adine, the ious but cruel 
king of Jerusalem, slain by Raymond.— 
Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered (1575). 


Aladme (8 syl.), son of Aldus ‘a 
lusty knight."—Spenser, Fuéry Queen, 
vi, 3 (1596), 


Alaff, Anlaf, or Olaf, son of 
Sihtric, Danish king of Northumberland 
(died 927). When £thelstan [Athelstan 
took possession of Northumberland, A 
fled to Ireland, and his brother Guthfrith 
or Godfrey to Scotland. 


Char teh Athelstan, 
~ Pe Noeennres fields, with cent vero mien 
Pui A powers to more Inglorious 

Draytou, penctten oh Gani 


Al Araf, the great limbo between 
paradise and hell, for the half good.—Ai 
Aoran, Vii. 

Alar’oon king of Barca, who joined 
the armament of Egypt against the cru- 
saders, but his men were only half 
armed.—Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered (1575). 

Alaric Cottin. Frederick the Great 
of Prussia was so called by Voltaire. 


|“ Alaric” because, like Alaric, he was a 
| great warrior, and ‘*Cottin” because, like 


a lamp brought | (Cotin, satirized by Boileau, he was a 


very indifferent poet. 


Alas’co, alias Dra. Demxtrrivs Do- 
nooBIUS, an old astrologer, consulted by 
the earl of Leicester.—Sir W. Scott, 
Avenilworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Alas’nam (Prince Zeyn) 
cizht statues, each a single diamond on a 
gold pedestal, but had to go in search of 
a ninth, more valuable than them all. 
This ninth was a-lady, the most beauti- 
ful and virtuous of women, ‘“‘ more pre- 
cious than rubies,” who became his wife. 

(me pure and pertect [woman) is... like Alasn:.m's 
indy, worth them all —Sir Walter Scott. 

Alasnam’s Mirror. When Alasnam was 
in search of his ninth statue, the king of 
thu Genii gave him a test mirror, in which 
he was to look when he saw a beauti- 
ful girl, “if the glass remained pure 
ani unsullied, the damsel would be the 
saine, but if not, the dsmsel would not 





—=—=—<—<——= 


be wholly pure in body and in 
This mirror was called “ the) 





Zeyn Alasnaim"). 


Alas’tor, A boWee demon, the  skele 
tan io the olovet,” which bmonte am 
torments afamily, Shelley has & poem 
entitle! Alastor or the Spirit of Sole 
tuale. 


Ger er he meditated (lio timesiil Goel be cA 
fesse dee Alastor af Ao) curt, whe Ee Gael 
teeth, Cioers, ate | fare! Live) 


Gea) Abel ty ineeters! op an cee of evbee ageless hee 
arch ibietog! | Varo, sel anil Ue Go jor & - 
Eis bors Aletore —ioa pe, Orne, Bh 

Al'ban (&.) of Verulam, bid his con- 
fessor, St. Aim ‘philal, and clothes 
with him, sullered death fo Bee mead, 
This was during the fnghbifal tion 
of Maximia’nus Hervu'ling, poner) of 
Dioecle'tian’s arwy in Uritain, when 1000 
Clinistians fell at Lichileld. 

AL Gautt—oar poor eae . 
Dryuo, Po poloo, mate. (eS 

Alba'nia, the Scotch Highlands, eo 
ealled from Albonact, son of Lrute, the 
mythica) Trojan king of Diritaim., At the 
death of rote “ Hritamn” was divided 
between his three sons: Locrin had Lng- 
land; Albanact bad Albamia ( Sootlianad) j 
and hamber had Cambria | Walew), 

Ils | Arka) by Cope of are Alene operran, 


Fug rere | if tie PP hote Ney ia) Pima t Lado 
[ray toe, al pw iievm. |*. (a). 








mind,” | 
touchetone 
of virtue."—Anvum Nights ('' Primes 


and judge 
hell Wyoming 
cand 





| _ALBION, 
aie 


Abert, fath 

y on seh te 
wem ' 

i let 





er of 
alee > Sp yreby ber 
ahot by m mixed force of 


| Brit Indian kroo Pty jel by ome 
poe be 


furtwer, who married Char! called 


© Lotte” in the novel), wilh whem Qeethe 


was in love. Goethe bimsetf 
ander the mame of Werther (qe Wade 

Albert of Gei'erstein -¢ . 
brother of Armold Biederman, 


| dent of the “ Secret Tribunal.” Wesome 


times appears as a “black pest of St 
Paul's,” and sometimes as the “‘ monk of 
St. Vietoire,"—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Gerstein (time, Edward lV), 


Albertaz'’zo tarred Alda, daughter 
af Otho, duke of MLE OY. His et | 
were Uyo and Foleo. From this stem 
springs the Koyal Family of England.— 








ALBORAK. 


of pani t, they were cast adrift in a 
ship, unmanned, but the wind drove the 
vessel to our coast, where these Syrian 
damsels disembarked. Here they lived 
the rest of their lives, and married with 
the aborigines, ‘‘a lawless crew of devils.” 
Milton mentioneg this legend, and naively 
adds, ‘‘itis too absurd and unconscionably 

to be believed.” Its resemblance to 
the fifty daughters of Dan’‘aos is palpable. 

Drayton, in his Polyolbion, savas that 
Albion came from Rome, was ‘‘the first 
martyr of the land,” and dying for the 
faith’s sake, left his name to the country, 
where Offa subsequently reared to him 
“ag rich and sumptuous shrine, with a 
monastery attached.”—Song xvi. 

Alown, king of Briton, when O’beron 
held his court in what is now called ‘‘ Ken- 
sington Gardene.” T. Tickell has a poem 
upon this subject. 

Albion wars with Jove's Son. Albion, 
son of Neptune, wars with Her’culés, son 
of Jove. Neptune, dissatisfied with the 
share of his father’s kingdom, awarded to 
him by Jupiter, aspired to dethrone his 
brother, but Herculés took his father's 
part, and Albion was discomfited. 

Since Albion wielied arms against the son of Jove. 

M. Drayton, Polyetb:on, iv. (1613), 

Albo’rak, the animal brought by 
Gabriel to convey Mahomet to the seventh 
heaven. It had the face of a man, the 
cheeks of a horse, the wings of an eagle, 
and spoke with a human voice. 


Albrac’ca, a castle of Cathay (China); 
to which Angel’ica retires in grief when 
she finds her love for Rinaldo is not re- 
Ciprocated. Here she is besieged by 
Agricané king of Tartary, who is re- 
solved to win her.—Bojardo, Orlando 
Jnnamorato (1495). 


Albracca’s Damsel, Angel’ica. (See 
abore.)—Ariosto, Orlando Furioso (1516). 


Albuma’zar, Arabian astronomer 
(776-885). 

Cuauateciere, our cocke, must tell what is o'clocke, 

By the that he hath naturally 

Vonceyned caught; for he was never taught 

aT haes OF brie of ast 

ow Ptholom: ° astronomy. 

J. Bksltou, Paithy Sparce (time, Henry VIIL). 


Alcai’ro, the modern name of Mem- 
phis (Egypt). 


Not Babylon 
Xor great Alkairo such 
Equailed, in all their g‘ories. 


Milton, Paradies Lost, L 717 (1668). 
Alceste (3 sy/.) or Alcestis, wife of 


Admétus. On his weddiny da Admétus 
Neglected to offer sacrifice to Diana, but 


17 





ALCHEMIST. 
Apollo induced the Fates to spare his 
life, if he could tind a voluntary subeti- 
tute. His bride offered to die for him, 
but Ilerculés brought her back from the 
world of shadows. 

*,” Euripidés has a Greek tragedy on 
the subject (Alcestis) ; Gluck has an opera 
(Meeste) libretto by Calzabigi (1765) ; 

*hilippi Quinault produced a French 
tragedy entitled Alceste, in 1674; and 
Lagrange-Chancel in 1694 produced a 
French tragedy on the same subject. 


Alceste’ (2 syl.), the hero of Molibtre's 
comedy Le Misanthrope (1666), not une 
like Timon of Athens, by Shakespeare. 
Alceste is in fact a pure and noble mind 
soured by perfidy and disgusted with 
socicty. Courtesy seems to him the vice 
of fops, and the usayes of civilized life no 
better than hypocrisy. Alceste pays his 
addresses to Celiméne, a coquette. 


Alceste ts an upright. manly ch:racter, but rude and im- 
pauent. even of the ordinary civilities of life.—Sir Wulter 


Alces’tis or Alces’tes (3 syi.), 
daughter of Pel’ias and wife of Adme’tus, 
who pave herself up to death to save the 
life of her husband. Herculés fetched her 
from the grave, and restored her to her 
husband. Her story is told by Wm. 
Morris, in The Furthly Paradise (June). 

*,* Longfellow, in The Gulden Leyend, 
has a somewhat similar story: Henry of 
Hoheneck was like to die, and was tuld 
he would recover if he could find a 
maiden willing to lay down her life for 
him. Elsie, the daughter of Gottlieb 
(a tenant farmer of the prince), vowed 
to do so, and followed the prince to 
Salerno, to surrender herself to Lucifer; 
but the prince rescued her, and made 
her his wife. The excitement and exer- 
cise cured the indolent young prince. 


Al’chemist (Tic), the last of the 
three prreat comedies of Ben Jonson (1610). 
The other two are Vol’pune (2 syl.), 
1605), and Zhe Silent Woman (1600). 

he object of The Alchemist is to ndicule 
the belief in the philosopher’s stone 
and the elixir of life. The alchemist 
ig ‘‘Subtle,” a mere quack; and ‘sir 
Epicure Mammon” is the chief dupe, who 
supplies money, etc., for the ‘transmu- 
tation of metal.” ‘Abel Drugver” a 
tobacconist, and ‘‘ Dapper” a lawyer's 
clerk, are two other dupes. ‘Captain 
Face,” ulias ‘‘ Jerenry,” the house-scrvans 
of ** Lovewit,” and ‘Dol Common" are 
his allies. The whole thing is blown up 
by the unexpected return of ‘‘ Lovewit.” 


¢ 








=— 


ALCIBIADES. 


Alecibi'ades (5 ey/.), the Athenian 
general, Being banished by the senate, he 
marches against the city, and the senate, 
being unable to offer resistance, 
the gates to him (r.c. 450-404), 
incident is introduced by Shakespesre in 


Tonon of Athens. 


Alcibiades has furnished Otway with 
the subject of an English y Sis), 


and J. G. de Campuistron one 
French (Alcibiades, 1683). 


Alcibi'ades’ Tables a 
god or goddess outwardly, anda Sile’ona, 
or deformed piper, within, Exuanous ling 
RB curious dissertation on these tables 
(Adaje, 667, edit. R. Stephens); hence 
emblematic of falsehood and 
tion, 

Whee wants piri ls compere! io ih 

Fale tables wreogh! by Adedbees 5 

Wich voted well of all were ied oe 

Maps fair withowl, bot moos define t 
Wm browne, frvamnis's Pasterela, | (15). 

Alci'des, Herculés, son of Alewus; 
any strong and valiant hero, The drama 
called /ferculés Furens is by Eurip'idés, 
Seneca has a tracedy of the same title. 

The Tuscan pret [4 rises] doth advance 
The frantic paladin of France |feriemde Pardiom); 
dod thee wor ancien! do enhance 


Aleidiés in hile fiory 
M. Drayton, Nygeraphidia (1-11). 
Where is the greui Alejdlip of thee ele, 
Wallant hor! Taliot carl of Borewsinery ! 
finkegeare, | Grery V's, act ie. oc. 7 RD). 


Tate 





and ulster to penance ah aid bm : 
| at en to ~ 


Damascus, and be banished from 
Syria. The two ladies came to Ragdad, 
and were taken in by the charitable syn- 
dee of the jewellers. When the jealous 
fit of the caliph was over he sent for the 
two exiles. Alcolomb he made his wife, 
and her mother he married to bis vizier. 
—Arabian Niz/ta (**Ganem, the Slave of 
Love"). 











ALETHES, 
marry Aloasio. with whom she had been 
previously ec cohabiting -. —Bellini’s opern, 
La Sonnanrula (18: 41). 


. Ale thes (3 sy!.), an pe yey 
fey pt to king Al'adine (dav) ¢ eubetle, 
false, dec eitful, ard full of wiles -—Tasao, 
Jerusalem Delivered ( (1575). 


Alexander the Great, a 
by Nathaniel Lee (1674). Ip we 
have a novel called Komen df Alecondre. 
ks 1V {aor bet= | core (twe «) ft century), and 
atraygedy by Racine (1665), 

Ths was a favours part with TL Metiepion | 


io), Woe Wa at wr) itt Lr, ie Soars 
ae): C. Mudet (jy 1 e),. and 


: neta 
rr) pa a, W Croker td thee i 


* Wa - Coriglaass, “! Ale a 1 antl” 
seoled cut Dulw seraciat ow, — hep 
Alerander an Athlete. Adis 


bong daked if he woold fin ® ours 
at Use Olympic cares, replied, * Tes, if 


my competitors are all kings” 


fhe Albom Aleoander, George 
Lasinot (Soicerhey of Jac ander Oey, 
1404-1467). 
The Persian Alerander, Sandjor (1117- 
1154), 


Ate rander of the North, Charles XII, 
of Swollen (1082-1718), 
Atc pore ibe fi nerruncl, 
Anwnoe's gree! eon one choulier had) ios bleh. 
Vivger, (reeogua fo fhe Magirws, UF, 





; 


Cage "Then understood. fre rian | 
oe gain reget ; 
stone, he waa boried in atl thot 
his hour Was come, for the oe leneath 
him wae tron, and his tron boekler we 
hia vaultof heaven above, So he ced, 
Aierander ond the Stolle r, When 
Dion'ides, aw pirato, Was broucht before 
Alexandor, he exclaimed, “ Vile brigand | 
how dare you infest the psoas with your 
misdeeds 7" “And you,” replied the 
pirate, ‘* hy what nght do you ravage the 
word? Boe | have only one ship, 


AWee 
1: “ o— Wu 





ALFONSO. 


governor of the universe, patron of arts 
and magic, etc. 


Alfonso, father of Leonn'ra d'Fete, 
and duke of Ferrara. Tasso the poet fell 
in love with Leonora. The duke confined 
him as a lunatic for seven years in the 
asylum of Santa Anna, but at the expira- 
tion of that period he was released through 
the intercession of Vincenzo Gonzago, 
duke of Mantua. livron refers to this in 
his Childe Aaruld, iv, 36. 

Alfones XJ. of Castile, whose ‘‘favour- 
tte” was Leonora de Guzmen.—Donizetti, 
La Fatorita (an opera, 1842). 


Alfon’so (Dum), of Seviile, a man of 50 
and husband of donna Julia (twenty-seven 
years his junior), of whoin he was jealous 
without cause.—liyron, Jun Juan, i. 


Alfons 20, in Walpole’s tale called The 
of Otranio, appears a4 an appari- 
tion in the moonlight, dilated to a gigantic 
form (1769). 


Alfred as a Gleeman. Alfred, 
wishing to know the strength of the 
Danish camp, assumed the disguise of a 
minstrel, and stayed in the Danish camp 
for several days, amusing the soldiers 


with his harping and singing. After he | 
had made himself master of all he re- | 
quired, he returned back to his own place. | 
—Wiliam of Malmesbury (twelfth cen- | 


tcry). 

“William of Malmesbury tells a similar 
sory of Anlaf, a Lianish king, who, he 
ways, just before the battle of Hrunan- 
burh, in Northumberland, entered the 
camp of king Athelstan as a pleeman, 
harp in hand; and so pleased was the 
rate king that he pave him gold. 
Anlaf would not keep the gold, but buried 
tt in the earth. 


21 





Algarsife (5 sy/.) and Cam'ballo, sons | 


ef Cambuscan’ king of Tartary, and 


Elfta his wife. Alcarsife married 
ora. 
1 of Algarif 
Bow thal he mat Thechura to hile wife. 


, Pha Squire's Tale, 
Al'gebar’ (‘the yinnt"). So the Ara- 
bans call the constellation Urion. 
Seetrt we many ® binalug Mar, 
Orton. Thartger of Wea bone 
Longtelluw, The Gccultation af Orion. 
Ali, cousin and son-in-law of Ma- 
bomet, _The beauty of his eyes is pro- 
verbial in Persia. Ayn /lali (‘eyes of 
Ali") is the hichest compliment a Persian 
san pay to beavty.—Chardin, 


ALICIA. 
Ali Baba, a poor Persian wood- 


earrier, who accilentally learns the magio 
words, i'm tig Sesame!” Shut Seaamé !* 
by which he yvains entrance into o vast 
cavern, the repository of stolen wealth 
and the lair of forty thieves. He makes 
bimeelf mech by plundering from these 
stores; and liv he shrewd cunning of 
Morriana, his female slave, the captain 
and his whole band of thieves are extir- 

ted. In reward of these services, Ali 
faba gives Morgiana her freedom, anid 
marries her to his own #on,—aArithoin 
Nuits (“Ali Baba or the Forty Thieves”). 


Alias, "You have as many aliases 
as Kobin of Hagehot.” (See Ronin or 
Baasor,| 


Al'ice (2 sy!.), sister of Valentine, m 
Mons, Tinea, ao comedy by BKeanmont 
and Fletcher (161%). 


Alive (2 syl.), foster-sister of Robert le 
Diable, and boride wf Ranilmldea, the Nor- 
man troubadiur, in Meverbeer's opera of 
Roberto id Diocesan, She cones to Malermo 
to place in the duke's hand his mother's 
“will,” which he is enjoined not to read 
till he tea virtuous man. She ta Robert's 
goad genius, and when Tlertram, the 
Send, claims hia woul as the price of his 
ill deeds, Alice, by reading the will, re- 
claims him. 


Alice (2 syl.), the servant-cirl of dame 
Whitecraft, wife of the innkeeper at Al- 
tringham.—Sir W. Scott, Lereril of the 
Peak (time, Charles I1.). 


Altice, the miller's daughter, a story of 
happy first love told in later years by 
an old man who bad married the rustic 
beauty. le was o dreamy Ind when he 
first loved Alice, and the passion roused 
him into manhiww. (See Hosk.)—Tenny- 
son, The Miller's fAswy iter. 


Alive (The Lady), wilow of Walter 
knight uf Avenel (2 s)/.).—Sir W. Scott, 
Tie Mimastery (tine, Elizabeth). 

Al'we [Gnay], called “Old Alice Gray,” 
a quondam tenant of the lord of Ravens- 
woud, Lacy Ashton visita her after the 
funeral of the old lonl.—Sir W. seett, 
Bride of Lamuinertmovr (time, William 
III.) 


Alichi'no, a devil in Dante's Jnjferne. 


Alicia cave her heart to Mosby, out 
married Arden for hia position. As oe 
wife, she played falsely with her hus- 
band, and even joined Moshy in a plot to 
murder him, Vacillating between love 








ALICIA, 


for Mosby and respect for Arden, she 
repents, and goes on sinnt 
ot discutangled, but is oan : 


osby's stronger will. Alicia's passions — 


impel her to evil, but her judgment ac 
cuses her and prompts ber to the ¢ 
course, She halts, and parleys with «i 
like Halaam, and of course is lost,—Anon,, 
Arden of Feversham (1592). 


Alicia, “‘a laughing, toying, wheed- 
ling, whimpering she,” who onee bold 
lord Hastings under her distal, bot her 
annoying jealousy, “vexatious days, and 
jarring, joyless nights," drove him away 
from her. Being jealous of Jane | 
she accused her to the duke of Gloster 
alluring lord Hastings from his alle 


and the lord protector seam trusipedt ip a 


charge against both; the lonl chamberlain 
be ordered to execution for tramaon, and 
Jane Shore he persecuted for witchem#ft. 
Alicia goes raving mad.—Rowe, Jane 
More (1713). 

Th king of Denmark ent io oe Mre Bellamy play 


* Alicte “and fell into aed weep. The ainery lady had 
® ey, "OU Beep fale lord | eel ee drew peer io ihe 


sumtering monwrth, wei shouted the word inion tim | 


foral baa, The Wing sterted, robb bis opm, ond re- 
marie) that he would oof hero ewe ao women for he 
wifes, though she hed no ond of Kingdoms for o dowry. — 
Cored] Magecine (|S). 


Alia (The lady), daughter of lord 


Waldemar Fitzarse.—Sir W. Scott, Joan 
it Peto «6 Ld Ft 


wishes to | 





Alisnunder was knighted, his mother gave 
him his father’s doublet, ‘*bebled with ald 
blood,” and charged him to revenge hia 


father’s death, Alisaonder mart.ied Alis 
la Keale Pilgrim, and had one son called 
Bellen'cerus le Beuse. Instead of ful- 
filling hia mother's charge, he was him- 
self ‘falsely and feloniously slain” by 
king Mark.—Sir T. Malory, History of 








ALEKOREMMI. 


end how she is to be huuted.—Ben Jon- | 


son, The Sad Shepherd (1637). 


Alkoremmi, the palace built by the 
Motassem on the hill of ‘* Pied Horses.” 
His son Vathek added five wings to it, 
one for the gratification of each of the 
five senses, 

J. Tue Ereevat Banquet, in which 
were tables covered both night and day 
with the most tempting foods, 

Il. THe Necrar or tue Sovt, filled 
with the best of poets and musicians. 

I. Tae Dewigut or Tue Eves, filled 
with the most enchanting objects the eye 
could look on, 

IV. Twe Pacace or Peercaes, which 
was always pervaded with the sweetest 
oduura. 

¥. Twe Rerreat or Jor, filled with 


the loveliest and most seductive houris.— 


W. Beckford, Fathet (1784). 


All’s Well that Ends Well, a 


comedy by Shakespeare (1598). The 
hero AP gs Bara are Bertram count of 
Rousillon, and Hel’ena a Payviciin's 
daughter, who are married by the com- 


mand of the king of France, but part | 
because 


se Bertram thought the lady not 
sufficiently well-born for him. Ulti- 
mately, however, all ends well. (See 
HELENA.) 

The story of this play is from Painter's 
Giletta of Narbon, 

All the Talents Administration, 
formed by lord Greville, in 1806, on the 
death of William Pitt. The members 
were lord Greville, the earl Fitzwilliam, 
viscount Sidmouth, Charles James Fox, 
earl Spencer, William Windham, lord 
Erskine, sir Charles Grey, lord Minto, 
lord Auckland, lord Moira, Sheridan, 
Richard Fitzpatrick, and lord Ellen- 
borough. It was dissolved in 1807, 

On “all the talents “ vent pour vena 
Byron, Fuglish Bards ard Seotch 

Allan, lord of Ravenswood, a decayed 
Seotch nohleman.—Sir W. Scott, The 
iy of Lammermoor (time, William 

Allan (Mrs.), colonel Mannering's 
housekeeper ot Woodburne.—Sir W. 
Scott, Guy Monnering (time, George II.). 

4fian [Breck Cameron], the per- 

t sent to arrest Hamish Bean 
eTavish, by whore he is shot.—Sir W. 
Highland Widow (time, George 


Allan-a-Dale, one of Robin Hood's 


ALL-FAIR. 


men, introduced by sir Ww. Scott te 
Ivanhoe. (See ALLUN-A-DALE.) 


Allegory for Al'ligator, » male 
propism. 
Site as hendctreng ot 0 atepey en the hanks of the 
Sheridan, The Aieals, Wi. 2 (TTR. 


Alle’gre (3 sy!.), the faithful servast 
of Philip Chabot. When Chabot was 
accused of treason, Allegre was put tothe 
rack to make him confess something to 
his master's damage, but the brave fellow 
was true as steel, and it was afterwards 
shown that the accusation had no foun- 
dation but jeslousy.—(i. Chapman and 
J. Shirley, The Tragedy of Philip Chabot, 


Allelu'jah, wood-sorrel, so cailed by 
a corruption of its name, Juliolu, where- 
by it ia known in the south of Italy. 
Its official name, Lurula, is another e 


of the same word. 


Allemayne (2 sy/.), Germany, from 
the French Allemagne, Also written 
ALLEMAIN. 

yd filthful bron wwonned with pam, 
0 loveliest madden of A le‘magiee, 
Campbell, The rae lend, 

Allen (u/pA), the friend of Pope, 
and benefactor of Fielding. 

Let bomtle Alen, with an awkward share, 
De good by stealth, and blush jo find it fame 





Allen (omg), a soldier in the ‘' ruards” 
of king Richard I,—Sir W. Scott, The 
Talisman, 


Allen (Mayor), an officer in the duke of 
Monmouth's army,—Sir W. Scott, Old 
Mortality (time, Charles I1.). 


Alley (The), te. the Stock Ex- 
change Alley (London), 


John Rive, alter many active years in the Alley, retired 
to the Convent ; ad dhol ot the age of 1L16.—O8d ond 
New London. 


All-Fair, a princess, who was saved 
from the two lions (which guarded the 
Desert Fairy) by the Yellow Dwarf, on 
comdition that she would become his 
wife. On her return home she hoped to 
evade this promise by marrying the brave 
king of the Gold Mines, but on the wed- 
ding day Yellow Dwarf carried her 
off on a Spanish cat, and confined her in 
Steel Castle. Here Gold Mine came to 
her rescue with a magic sword, but in his 
joy at finding ber, he dropped his sword, 
and was stabbed to the heart with it 
by Yellow Dwarf. ALl-Fair, falling on 
the body of her lover, died of a broken 








——= — — — 


ALLIN-A-DALE. 





besrt. The syren changed the dead © 
tose 


lovers into tw ries treea,—Com 
TAunoy, Fairy Tales (“The Yellow 
Dwarf,” 1682). 


Allin-a-Dale or Allen-a-Dale, of 
Nottinghamshire, was to be moartied to 8 
lady who returned his ae but her 
mrents compelled her to ¥F young 
alin for an | nid knicht of wil “Allin | 
told his tale to Robin Hood, amd the bold 
forester, in the diagenise of @ , went 
to the church where the wedding eer 
inony was to take place, Whon the 


wedding party stepped in, Rebin oad | 


exclaimed, “‘Thia i no tit match; the 
bride shall be married o nly to the man of 
her choice.” Then acu ridimge his horn 
Allin-a-Dale with four and twenty rev 
men entered the church, The buho 


refused tu marry the woman to Allin i! | 


the hanns had heen asked theese times, 
whereupon Kobin polled off ay agen + 
gown, and invested Little John in th, whe 
asked Qice banns seven times, and per- 
forme] the ceremony.—/i4nm Howl and 
Allin-a-Dale (oa ballad). 


Allnut (Noll), landlord of the Swan, 
Lambythe Perry (1625), 

iroce Alsat, his wife, 

Olrer <Ajlwel, the landlord's son.— 
Sterling, Joln Felfon (1Ai2). 


Aree Se se ee 
a i | 
a Nereis Sea | O leat 0 


that man,” ead 
. wad he then told she Saciohhseati 
yhood he on a es and 


eet Mfoclas” (Chef). Atmansor 


founded the city, and called it Bagdad, 


the name of the hermit,—Mangny. 


Alman'zor, in Dryden's tragedy of The 
Conquest of Grrana’da, 

Almon'zor, lackey of Madelon and her 
ecusin | “ath. the affected fine ladies ia 
Moliere’s comedy of Les Preteeuses 
Redwules (1659). 


Almavi'va (Cownf ond conten). 





ALMIRODS. 


ef India. In his engagement with the 


wnited fleets of Cambava and Egypt, he 
had his legs and thiyhs shattered by chain- 
shot, but instead of retreating to the 
back, he had himself bound to the ship- 
mast, where he ‘‘waved his sword to 
eheer on the combatants,” till he died 
from loss of blood. 

Similar stories are told of admiral 
Be: bow. Cynregeros brother of the poet 
schyloa, Jaafer who carried the sacred 
tanner of ‘‘the prophet” in the battle 
ef Muta, and of some others. 

Whirled by the cannons’ rage, in shivers torn, 
acattered o'er the waves are burne; 


Bound 

Waves his proud sword and cheers his 

Tho’ winds and seas their wunted aid deny, 

To yield he knows not; but he knows tw die. 
Camoens, Lusiad, x. (1569). 


Almirods (Zhe), a rebellious people, 
who refused to submit to prince Pan- 
tag’ruel after his subjugation of Anar- 
chus king of the Dipsodes (2 syl.). It 
was while Pantagruel was marching 
against these rebels that a tremendous 
shower of rain fell, and the prince, putting 
out his tongue ‘‘ half-way," sheltered his 
whole army.—Rabelais, Pantagrucl, ii. 32 
(1533). 


Alnas’char, the dreamer, the “ bar- 
ber’s fifth brother." He invested all his 
money in a basket of glassware, on which 
he was to gain so much, and then to in- 
vest again and again, till he grew so rich 
that he would marry the vizier’s daughter 
and live in grandeur; but being angry 
with his supposed wife, he gave a kick 
with his foot and smashed all the ware 
which had given birth to his dream of 
wealth.— The Arabian Nights’ Entertain- 
ments. 

Echep’ron's fable of The Shoemaker and 
a Ha'poth of Milk, in Rabelais; The 
Milkmaid and her Pail of Iilk, Dodsley ; 
and Perrette et le Pot au Lait, by le 
Fontaine, are similar fables. La Fon- 
taine’s fable is a poetical version of one 


of Xsop’s. 

The Alnasehar of Modern Literature, 
8. T. Coleridge, #0 called because he wns 
constantly planning magnificent literary 
enterpriees which he never carried out 
(1772-1834). 

Alnec’ma or Alnecmacht, ancient 
name of Connaught. 


In Alneema was the warrior bonoured, the first of the 
fate uf {the Beiya af South Ireland) —Osian 
("* Temora,” ii.). 


Aloa'din (4 sy/.), a sorcerer, who made 
for himself a palace and garden in Arabia 
ealled ‘‘The Earthly Paradise.” Thalaba 


ALP. 


slew him with a club, and the scene of en- 
chantment disappeared.—Southey, Tha- 
laba the Destroyer, vii. (1797). 

A. L. O.E. (that is, A L[ady] O[f] 
E[ngland]), Miss Charlotte Tucker, from 





Alon’so, king of Naples, father of 
Ferdinand and orother of Sebastian, in 
The Tempest, by Shakespeare (1609). 


Alonzo the brare, the name of a ballad 
by M. G. Lewis. The fair Imogine was 
betrothed to Alunzo, but during his ab- 
sence in tho wars becaine the bride of 
another. At the wedding-feast Alonzo's 
ghost sat beside the bride, and, after re- 
buking her for her infidelity, carried her 
off to the grave. 


Aionzo the brave wac the name of the knight ; 
The maid was the fair Imogiae. 
M.G. Lewis. 


Alon’zo, a Portuguese gentleman, the 
swom enemy of the vainglorious Duarte 
(3 syl.), in the draina called Zhe Custom 
of the Country, by Beaumont and Flet- 
cher (1647). 

Alonzo, the husband of Cora. Heisa 
brave Peruvian kniyht, the friend of Rolla, 
and beloved by king Atali’ba. Alonzo, 
being taken prisoner of war, is set at 
liberty by Rolla, who changes clothes 
with him. At the end he fights with 
Pizarro and kills him.—Sheridan, /’izarro 
(altered from Kotzebue). 


Alonzo (Don), ‘‘the conqueror of Afric,” 
friend of don Carlos, and husband of 
Leonora. Don Carlos had been betrothed 
to Leonora, but out of friendship resigned 
her to the conqueror. Zanga, the Moor, 
out of revenge, persuaded Alonzo that his 
wife and don Carlos still entertained for 
each other their former love, and out of 
jealousy Alonzo has his friend put to 
death, while Leonora makes away with 
herself. Zanga now informs Alonzo that 
his jealousy was groundless, and mad with 

rief he kills himself.—Edw. Young, The 

evenge (1721). 


Alonzo Fernandez de Avella- 
neda, author of a spurious Dun Quixote, 
who makes a third sally. This was pub- 
lished during the lifetime of Cervantes, 
and caused him great annoyance. 


Alp, a Venetian renegade, who was 
commander of the Turkish army in the 
siege of Corinth. He loved Francesca, 
daughter of old Minotti, governor of 
Corinth, but she refused to marry a rene- 
gade and apostate. Alp was shot in the 





ALPH, 





—— 


fHece, and Behiuieats ea died of a broken 
heart.—Byron, Sieve of Corinth, 

Alph, a riverin Xanadu, mentioned 
by Coleridge in bis Kelle Kikow, The 
Dame Ww an invention of Coleridge's i 

to Xatedo did Katie i 
A eka le i® pe eu? = Li lary ee, 
wy heey AON, Ue om = er, fe, 


Tire M47! Desi le. 
Loan tae Kubin: sa, —— fealty an 


Alphe'us (3 sy/.), « magicma and 
prophet in the army of Churle 
Haim in sleep by | ‘\orida'no.—Arlosto, 


etude J gri wo (1516). 


Ai plein (3 ayl.), of classic story, bet 


r vasrunately in love with Apethin'ea, por 
ail 


ed her, but she fed from him 
fright and was chanced by Diens into 
1ountain, Which bears her nine, 


Alphon’ so, an imecible old ford in — 
T! i 


eri, A comedy by Beaumont aod 
Fletcher (|/671). 


Alpiom'so king of Sea deposed by 
hiv brother Frederick. Sora'no tried to 
poison him, bot dad net snc com, Llti- 
mately he recovered hia crown, and Fred- 
erick and Sorano were sent ton monastery 
for the rest of ther lives.—Heaumont 
and Fletcher, A Wife fora Month (1624), 

Alphonse, son of count Pedro of Canta- 
bria, afte ribheria king of Spain. He was 
nlichted to Herme sind, Pe iter of Jord 











the seven think it ve a 
the namo of the dog sh aoe the cave 
with them; buat — a wlone OF 
metal tab seb dine 2 eon 


king James's son-in-law was the 
Palatine. Sir Walter Scott, in The For- 
tunes of Neel, has graphically described 
the life and state of this rookery, but is 
greativ indebted to Shadwell’a comedy, 
She Spure of Alsatia, 


Alsecrip | Miss), ‘‘the heiress,” a vulgar 
parteaue, affected, conceited, il)-natored, 
and ignorant. Having had a fortune left 
her, she assomes the airs of a woman of 








ALTAMORUS. 


who joined the ptianarmament against 
the crusaders. e surrendered himself 
to Godfrey (bk. xx.).—Tasaso, Jerusalem 
Delivered (1575). 

Althzea’s Brand. The Fates told 
Althza that her son Melea’ger would live 


just as long as a log of wood then on the 
fire remained unconsumed. Althza con- 


27 
Altamo’rus, king of Samarcand’, | 


trived to keep the log unconsumed for | 


many years, but when her son killed her 
two brothers, she threw it angrily into the 
fire, where it was quickly consumed, and 
Mel rexpired at the same time.—Ovid, 
HMetaph. viii. 4. 
The fatal brand Althsea barned. 
2 Henry V1, act Lac. 1 (1801). 

(Shakespeare says (2 Henry JV. act ii. 
sc. 2), Althea dreamt ‘‘she was delivered of 
a fire-brand.” This isamistake. It was 
Hecuba who so dreamt. The story of 
Althza and the fire-brand is given above.) 


Althe’a (The divine), of Richard Love- 
lace, was Lucy Sacheverell, called by the 
poet, Lucretia. 

When love with unconfindd wings 
Hovers within my gates, 

And my divine Al brings 
To whisper at my grates... . 

(The ‘* grates” here referred to were 
those of a prison in which Lovelace was 
confined by the Long Parliament, for his 
petition from Kent in favour of the king.) 


Altisido’ra, one of the duchess's 
servants, who pretends to be in love with 
don Quixote, and serenades him. The 
don sings his response that he has no 
other love than what he gives to his 
Dulcin’ea, and while he is still singing 
he is assailed by a string of cats, let into 
the room by a rope. As the knight was 
leaving the mansion, Altisidora accused 
bim having stolen her garters, but 
when the knight denied the charge, the 
damsel protested that she said so in her 
distraction, for her garters were not stolen. 
**T am like the man,” she said, ‘‘ looking 
for his mule at the time he was astride its 
back.”—Cervantes, Don Quixote, II. iii. 
9, ete. ; iv. 5 (1615). 


Alton (Miss), alias Miss CLirrorp, a 
sweet, modest young lady, the companion 
of Miss Alscrip, ‘‘the heiress,” a vulgar, 
conceited ue. Lord Gayville is 
expected to marry ‘the heiress,” but 
detests her, and loves Miss Alton, her 
humble companion. It turns out that 
£2000 a year of ‘‘ the heiress’s” fortune 
belongs to Mr. Clifford (Miss Alton's 


brother), and is by him settled on his | 








was princess of Brittany (Bre 


~ AMADIS OF GREECE, 


rister, Sir Clement Flint destroys this 
bond, whereby the money returns to Clif- 
ford, who marries lady Emily Gayville, 
and sir (lement settles the same on his 
nephew, lord Gayville, who marries Miss 
Alton.—General Burgoyne, Zhe Heiresa 
(1781), 

Al'ton Locke, tailor and_ poet, a 
novel by the Rev. Charles Kingsley 
(1550), This novel won for the author 
the title of ‘* The Chartist Clergyman.” 

Alzir’do, king of Trem’izen, in Africa, 
overthrown by Orlando in his march to 
join the allied army of Ag’ramant.— 
Anosto, Orlando Furioso (1516). 


Am'aclis of Gaul, a love-child of 
king F'er'ion and the princess Elize’na, 
He is the hero of a famous prose romance 
of chivalry, the first four books of which 
are attributed to Lobeira, of Portugal 
(died 1403), These books were trans- 
lated into Spanish in 1460 by Montal'vo, 
who added the fifth book. The five were 
rendered into French by Herberay, who 
increased the series to twenty-four books. 
Lastly, Gilbert Saunier added seven more 
volumes, and called the entire series Le 
Ronan des Romans. 

Whether Amadis was French or British 
is disprvted, Some maintain that “Gaul” 
means Wales, not France; that Elizena 
e), and 
that Perion was king of Gaul ( Wales), not 
Gaul (#rance). 

Amalie de Geu) wep a tall man, ofa fair complexien, 
bls capoc! Sometliing hetween mild emd austere, and had 
a heandeome bleck beard. He was a person of very fow 
worla, waa mol easily provoked, and was soon appeased.— 
Corvanion, hom (jalowee, I. Lb 1 (1615). 


(William Stewart Rose has a poem in 
three books, called Amadis of Gaul.) 

As Aritbur is the central figure of 
British romance, Charlemagne of French, 
anid Diderick of German, so Amadis 18 
the central figure of Spanish and Portu- 
guese romance; but there is this difference 
—the tale of Amadis is a connected whole, 
terminating with his marriage with 
Oria'na, the intervening parts being only 
the obstacles he encountered and over- 
came in obtaining this consummation. In 
the Arthurian romances, and those of the 
Charlemagne series, we have a number of 
adventures of different heroes, but there 
is no unity of purpose, each set of adven- 
tures is complete in itself. 

(Southey the poet has an admirable 
abridgment of Amadis of Gaul, and also 
of Paiimerin of Enjland., 


Am‘adis of Greece, a supplemental 
part of Amadis of Gaul, by Felicia’no de 








AMARANTH. 





AMBROSE. 





ellow, by a strange error, crowns the 
anzel of death with amaranth, with which 
(as Milton says) ‘‘the spirits elect bind 
their resplendent locks,” and his anyel of 
life he crowns with asphodel, the tower 
of Pluto or the grave. 


He who wore the crown of asplhodels . . . 
(ait = My errand ts at Seah but life” tee 
Wer! Whispered a word. that hari a soand like death. 
Longfeliuw, The Two Angels 
Amaranth (Lady), in Wild Oats, by 
vohn O'Reefe, a famous part of Mrs. 
Pope (1740-1797). 


Amaril a shepherdess in love 
with Perigot (¢ sounded), but Perigot 
loved Am’oret. In order to break off this 
affection, Amarillis induced ‘‘the sullen 
shepherd” to dip her in ‘‘the magic well,” 
whereby she became transforined into the 
perfect resemblance of her rival, and soon 
effectually di ted Perigot with her 
bold and wanton conduct. When after- 
wards he met the true Amoret, he repulsed 
ber, and even wounded her wich intent to 
kill, Ultimately, the trick was dis- 
covered by Corin, ‘‘the faithful shep- 
herdess,” and Periyot was married to his 
true love.—John Fletcher, The Faithsud 
Shepherd (1610). 

Amaryllis, in Spenser's pastoral 
Colin Clout’s Come Home Ayain, is the 
countess of Derby. Her name was Alice, 
and she was the youngest of the six 
daughters of sir Juhn Spenser, of Al- 
thorpe, ancestor of the noble houses of 
Spenser and Marlborough. After the 
death of the earl, the widow married sir 
Thomas Egerton, keeper of the Great 
Seal (afterwards baron of Ellesmere and 
viscount Brackley). it was for this very 
lady, during her widowhood, that Milton 
wrote his Ar’cudes (3 syl.). 


Of which 1 meanest boast myself to be . 
Phyllis. Lis, and sweet 
Phyllis the is eldadt of the three, 


i 


Amarytlis a degree. 
Spenser, Cotin Cloul's Come Home Again (1984). 

Am’'asisi, AmJdsis, or Aah’mes (3 syl.), 
founder of the eighteenth Eyyptian 
dynasty (n.c. 1610). Lord Brooke at- 
tnbutes to him one of the pyramids. The 
three chief pyramids are usually ascribed 
to Suphis (or Cheops), Sen-Suphis (or 
Cephrenés), and Mencherés, all of the 
fourth dynasty. 

Amncis and bow can time f 

Who in their Drramids would live ? 
Lord Brooke, P 


Amateur (Ax). 


Pierce Egan the ! 


ounger published under this psendon 
is Rev Life in London, or The Rambles 
and Adrentures of [vb Tally-ho . 
Dasha 


and his Cuusin, the Hon. Tum 
throuyh the Metrupolis (1821-2). 


Amaurots (Tie), a people whose 
kingdom was invaded by the Dipsodes 
2 syl.), but Pantag’ruel, coming to their 
efence, utterly routed the invaders.— 
Rabelais, Paatayruel, ii. (1533). 


Ama'via, the personification of In- 
temperance in grief. Hearing that her 
husband, sir Mordant, had been enticed 
to the Bower of Bliss by the enchantress 
Acra’sia, she went in quest of him, and 
found him so changed in mind and body 
she could scarcely recognize him; how- 
ever, she manayed by tact to bring him 
away, but he died on the rvad, and 
Amavia stabbed herself from excessive 
grief.—Spenser, 
(1590). 


Amazo’na, a fairy, who freed a 
certain country from the Oyri anc the 
Blue Centaur. When she sounded her 
trumpet, the sick were recovered and be- 
came both voung and strong. She pave 
the princess Carpil’lona a bunch of gilli- 
flowers, which enabled her to pass un- 
recognized before those who knew her 
well.—Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy Tales 
(‘‘ The Princess Carpillona,” 1682). 

Amazo’nian Chin,a beardless chin, 
like that of the Amazonian women. 
Especially applied to a beardless young 
soldier. 

When with his Amazonian chin he drove 
The bristled lips before him. 
Shakespeare, Coriolanus, act il. se. 2 (1609). 

Ambassadors at foreign courts. 

est vir bonus miwus ad mentiendum 
reipub.icss causa. —Sir Henry Wotton (1610). 

Amber, said to be a concretion of 
birds' tears, but the birds were the sisters of 
Melea’yer, called Mecleay’ridés, who never 
ceased weeping for their dead brother.-— 
Pliny, Natural History, xxxvii. 2, 11. 


Fuéery Queen, ii, 1 


Around thee shall glisten the lovelie-t amber, 
That ever the surrowing sea-birds have wept. 
T. Moore, fire- Worshippere 

Ambrose (2 sy/.), a sharper, who 
assumed in the presence of (il Blas the 
character of a devotee. He was in league 
with a fellow who assumed the name of 
don Raphael, and a young woman who 
called herself Camilla, cousin of denra 
Mencia. These three sharpers allure Gi 
Blas to a house which Camilla says is hers, 
fleece him of his ring, his portmanteau, 
and his money, decamp, and leave him 








AMERICA. 


so called in 1517, because genera] Lalle- 
mant gave there “ protection” to a colony 
of French refugees. 

Vermont (ic. ** Verta Monts"), so called 
from the Green Mountains, which traverse 
the state. 

Firymia, so called (1584) by sir Walter 
Raleigh, in compliment to Elizabeth, 
“the virgin queen.” 

*.” Jilmois, Jowa, Kansas, Kentucky, 
Michigan (‘‘a lake"), Minnesota (“‘laugh- 
ing waters"), Mississippi (‘‘sea of 
waters”), Missouri, Nebraska, Vhio, Ore- 
jos, and Wisconsin, are names of rivers. 


America. Nicknames of the United 
States’ inhabitants :—Alobama, lizards ; 
Arken'sas, tooth-picks; Califurn'ia, gold- 
hunters ; Colora’do, rovers; Connecticut, 
wooden nutmegs ; Delaware, musk-rats ; 
Florida, fly-up-the-creeks; (Feor'yia, 
burzards; Jilimois, suckers; Jndiana, 
hoosiers; Jowa, hawk-eyes; Acnsas, 
jay-hawkers; Aentucky, corn-crackers ; 
Jowisana, creoles; Maine, foxes ; 
Moeryland, craw-thumpers; MicdA'ijan, 
wolverines; Minnesot’a, gophers; Jfis- 
sump'pi, tadpoles; Aissow'ri, pukes ; 
Nebraska, bog-eaters: Nera‘ia, sage 
hens; New Hampshire, granite boys ; 
Ner Jersey, blues or clam-catchers ; 
Nee Fork, knickerbockers; North Care 
I'na, tar-boilers and tuckoes; (hia, 
buck-eves ; Or'eyon, web-feet and hard- 
eases; 3 =Pennsylea'nia, Pennanites and 
leather-heads ; ARAcde Island, run-flints ; 
South Carol’na, wensela; Jennesarc’, 
whelps; Jeras, beef-heads; Vermont, 
Green Monntain boys; Viryin'ia, beadies ; 
Wisconsin, badgers. 


Amethyst is said to dispel drunken- 
ness, 


Ameu'ti, the heaven of Egyptian 
mythology. 

‘pen the gife of heaven... open the gute of the 
fam fegion ; open the pite of Aneuil !—/maeription 
me lw wey oped by Penigrew, in 1508 

Am '‘giacl, son of Camaralzaman and 
Radoura, and half-brother of Assad (gon 
of (amaralzaman and Haiatal'nefons). 
Each of the two mothers conceived a base 
passion fur the other's son, and when the 
Toone princes revolted at their advances, 
accused them to their father of designs 
upon their honour. Camaralzaman or- 
dered hia emir Giondar to put them both 
ty death, but as the young men had saved 
fia from a lion he laid no hand on them, 
but told them not to return to their 
father's dominions. They wandered on 
for a time, and then parted, but both 








= 


| 





AMIDAS. 





reached the same place, which was a city 


of the Mun. Here by a ad- 
venture Aniiad was made vizier, while 
Assad was thrown into a dungeon, where 
he was designed as a sacrifice to the fire- 
god. Bosta'na, a daughter of the old 
man who imprisoned Assad, released 
him, and Amgiad out of gratitude made 
her his wife. After which the king, whe 
was greatly advanced in years, appointea 
him his successor, and Amgiad used his 
best. efforts to abolish the worship of fire 
and establish “‘the true faith.”"—Arabian 
Nights (** Amgiad and Assad”). 


Ambara, the kingdom in whith was 
the “‘hapny valley,” where the Abys- 
zinian princes were doomed to live. The 
valley was encompassed by mountains, 


and bad bot one entrance, which was 


under a cavern, concealed by woods and 
closel by iron gates.—Dr. Johnson, 
Rasselas (1759), 


Am ‘ias, a squire of low degree, be- 
loved by /milia. They agreed to meet 
at a given spot, but on their way thither 


both were taken captives—Amias by 
Corflambo, and Amilia by a man 
monster. Aimilia was released by Bel- 


phoebe (9 syi.), who slew ‘ the caitiff ;" 
and Amias by prince Arthur, who slew 
Corflambo. The two lovers were then 
brought together by the prince ‘‘in peace 
and settled rest.”—Spenser, Fuéry Queen, 
iv. 7, 9 (1496). 


Am'idas, the vounger brother of 
Brac'idas, sons of Mile’sio; the former 
in love with the dowerless Lucy, and the 
latter with the wealthy Philtra. The 
two brothers had each an island of equal 
size and value left them by their father, 
but the sen daily added to the island of the 
younger brother, and enroached on that 
belonging to LBracidas. When Philtra 
saw that the property of Amidas was 
daily increasing, she forsook the elder 
brother and married the wealthier; while 
Lucy, seeing herself jilted, threw herself 
into the sea. A floating chest attracted 
her attention, she clung to it, and was 
drifted to the wasted island. It was 
found to contain great riches, and Lucy 
enve its contents and herself to Bracidas. 
Amidas claimed the chest as his own by 
right, and the question in dispute was sub- 
mitted to sir Arteyal. The wise arbiter 
decided, that whereas Amidas claimed as 
his own all the additions given to his 
island by the sea, Lucy might claim as 
her own the chest, because the sea bud 











AMMON’S SON. 


(Ammon is Han, son of Noah, founder of 
the African race.) (See AMALTHEA.) 
] 


[Here] Amaltbea pours, 
Well pleased, the wealth of that Ammonian horn, 
Her dower. 
Akenszide, Zymn to the Natads. 


Am’mon’s Son. Alexander the 
Great called himself the son of the god 
Ammon, but others call him the son of 
Philip of Macedon. 

Of food I think with Philip's son, or rather 

Ammon’s (ili pleased with one world and one father). 

Byron, Don Juan, v. 31 
(Alluding to the tale that when Alex- 
ander conquered the whole world, he 
wept that there was no other world to 
conquer.) 

A'mon’s Son is Rinaldo, eldest 
son of Amon or Aymon marquis d’Este, 
and nephew of Charlemagne.—Ariosto, 
Orlando Furioso (1516). 


Amoret’ta or Am/’oret, twin-born 
with Belphebé (3 sy/.), their mother 
being Chrysog’oné (4 sy/.). While the 
n:tner and her two babes were asleep, 
Diana took one (Belphabé) to bring up, 
and Venus the other. Venus committed 
Amoretta to the cha of Psyché 
(2 syf.), and Psyché tended her as lovinyly 
as she tended her own daughter Pleasure, 
‘‘to whom she became the companion.” 
Wher grown to marriageable estate, 
Amoretta was brought to Fairyland, and 
wounded many a heart, but gave her own 
only to sir Scudamore (bk. ili. 6). Being 
seized by Bu’sirane, an enchanter, she was 
kept in durance by him because she would 
not ‘*her true love deny;” but Britomart 
delivered her and bound the enchanter 
(bk. iii. 11, 12), after which she became 
the tender, loviny wife of sir Scudamore, 

Amoret is the type of female loveliness 
and wifely affection, soft, warm, chaste, 
gentle, and ardent; not sensual nor yet 
platonic, but that living, breathing, 
warm-hearted love which fits woman for 
the fond mother and faithful wife.— 
Spenser, Faéry Queen, iii. (1590). 


Am’oret, a modest, faithful shep- 
herdess, who plighted her troth to Per'igot 
(¢ sounded) at the ‘* Virtuous Well.” 
The wanton shepherdess Amarillis, having 
by enchantment assumed her appearance 
and dress, su disgusted Perigot with her 
bold ways, that be lost his love for the true 
Ainoret, repulsed her with indignation, 
and tried to kill her. The deception was 
revealed oy Corin, “the faithful shep- 
herdess,” and the lovers being reconciled, 
were happily married.—John Fletcher, 
Tuc Fuctigul Shepherdess (before 1611). 








AMPHITRYON. 


Amour’y (Sir Giles), the Grande 
Master of the Knights Templars, who 
conspires with the marquis of Mont- 
serrat against Richard I. Saladin cuts off 
the Templar’s head while in the act of 
drinking.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Talisman 
(time, Richard I.). 


Am’perzand, acorruption of And-as- 
and, i.e. ‘‘ &-as-and.” The symbol is the 
old Italian monogram e? (‘‘and”), made 
thus &”, in which the first part is the letter 
¢ and the flourish at the end the letter ¢. 


Btate episties, so dul) and so grand, 
Mustn’t contain the shortened * and. * 

O my nice little amperzand ! 

Nothing that Cadmus ever planned 

Equals my elegant amperzand. 

Quoted in Notes and Queries (May 5, 1877). 
(Cadmus invented the original Greek 
alphabet.) 


Am 'phibal (St.), confessor of St. 
Alban of Verulam. When Maximia’nus 
Hercu'lius, general of Diocle'tian’s army 
in Britain, pulled down the Christian 
churches, burnt the Holy Scriptures, and 
put to death the Christians with unflaggin 
zeal, Alban hid his confessor, and offe 

to die for him. 


A thousand other saints whom Amphfhal had taught... 
Were slain where Lichfield is, whose name doth rightly 
soun 





, (There of those Christians slain), ‘‘ Dead-field * or burying- 


Drayton, Polyoldion, xxiv. (1622). 


Amphi’on is said to have built 
Thebes by the music of his lute. Tennv- 
son has a poem called Amphion, a skit 
and rhyming jeu Mesprit, 

Amphion there the loud creating lyre 


Strikes, and behold a sudden Thebes aspire. 
Pope, Temz:le af Fame. 


Amphis-beena, a reptile which could 
6° head foremost either way, because it 
ind a head at each extremity. Milton 
uses the word in Jarudise Lost, x. 524, 
(Greck, ampi baino, ‘*1 go both ways.”) 

The amphis-twena doul:ly armed appears, 
At either end a threatening bead she renrs. 
Rowe, fharsulia, ix. Gud, etc. (by Lucan). 

Arnphitryon, a Theban general, 
husband of Aleme’né (3 sy/.). While 
Amphitryon was absent at war with 
Pter’elas king of the Tel’eboans, Jupiter 
assumed his form, and visited Alcmené, 
who in due time became the mother 
of Her’culés. Next day Amphitrvon re- 
turned, having slain Pterelas, and Alemend 
was surprised to see him so soon ayain. 
Here a great entanglement arose, Alc- 
mené telling her husband he visited her 
last night, and showing him the ring he 
gave her, and Aiphitrvon declaring he 
was with the army. This confusion is 

bD 








AMREET. 


still further increased by his slave Sos’ia 
who wenl to take to Alemené the newa of 
victory, but wae stopped ot the dior of 
the house by Mercury, who had agsutned 
fur the nonce Sovia's form, and the slave 
could net make out whether be wre 
himwelf or not. This plot has Tew nae 
n comedy by Plautus, Molitee, and 
Dryden. 
The sem etch Plus drew, tonight ao aim, 


Towolied by Molltre, ty Drpdien tangit Go pio, 
Protoqrae bo iifalie usw) Pon, 





Ae sy Amphilryan clea gaunt 








Com dJow, 29 Ge boner | 


fewer lian Chl Lhe Goes, oll recluetr hd On ll Vel, 
/ 


Ceivkriviies, che 
sAnapitl ryom 3 Ta 


be Tit TT, “Wk iW. rs re rifle A 
yon caf 0 Anrep try on ow fom dim the. | 
tiacer Of the feast is the master of the | 
putiee "). White the confusion wae mf ily 
beizht between the fi ilse and trod Amphi- 
tryvon, Seow | Sosim)| the slave is reqneated 
bo dee hie whe hy yh as whic hi, and replied — 
7 mot farina 


Je Ga foe iron pels fa, feelers | 
Toite Creare brs} icp 5 
Le weniialle Aton, 4b licen 
Baa Lrg eae aie bee) ile 
Maslibes, Ang phd yee, IL ee), 
Demme? heme aun) Choro 
Are dot blew pietel) nem in bear, 
Dot that if focal Ale BR) on 
hors Lor hire plea! hi i eer 
Mt A, [euggiers jis7 2 


= SSF |. 


Amree’t, the drink which imparts 
Immortality, orthe W ater of [mimortality. 
lt is obtained by churning the sea, either 
with the mountamn Merceo or with the 


opreat amusement of Anffas of Ambia 


ANACHEONISMS. 
| » thes. Henry TV. alludes to this 


when he s.ys— 
File b Oe Saatic. unt the Tshie comnts 
ab Are, were, 


hor fare, 
Kiskeyente, 8 dfeney (1, mele we, @ CURL 


Amusements of The 





was currying heures ; off Artotea'aes 

of Persia, was mole-catehing ; of Demation 

of Kome, wae catching flies; of Fordimand 

Vii. of Spain, was embroidering petii- 

conte; of Lows XVI. clock and lock 

making ; of mje IV. the game of 
pationce. 

‘tas, in Colim Clowf's Come 

| Hon Saran im, by Spenaer, is a 

of 


iv, who died 1504, 

Ameren, flower ot chepherd + pride furtorn, 

Me, bite livid. was the tes al 

That ovor pi ay am: 

Spenser, ( ; owl's Come ome pode (LDL), 
Amyn'tor. (Se Aursron.) 
A'mys and Amyl'ion, the Damen 

and Pythies of medieval romance.—See 
Ellis's Spe, Ler of ts cur by EB re haa Metriaal 
Humances, 

Anab’asis, the expedition of the 
younger Cyrus against his brother Arta- 
xerxes, and the retreat of his “tem 
thousand” Greeks, described by Xen’- 
ophon the Greek historian. 


Your chrontider lo Wrillig (hika 


| 





ANACHRONISMS. 





Morcrar makes Dido tel! A°neas that 


she should have been contented with a 
gon, even “if he had been a cockney 
daad.prat ” (1582). 

ScHILLER, in his Piccolomini, speaks 
of lijAtniny conductors. This was about 
150 years before they were invented. 

SHAKESPEARE, in his Cor/olanus (act ii. 
ec. 1), makes Menenius refer to (ialenabove 
600 vears before he was born. 

Cominius alludes to oman plays, but 
ne such things were known for 250) years 
afver the death of Cominius,—Coriolanus, 
act ii. sc. 2. 

Brutus refers to the “ Warcian waters 
Lrought to Rome by Censorinus." This 
was not done till 300 vears afterwards. 

In Hamlet, the prince Hamlet was 
educated at Witternbery School, which was 
not founded till 1502; whereas Saxo- 
Germapicus, from whom Shakespeare bor- 
rowed the tale, died in 1204. Hamlet 
was 30 years old when his mother talks 
of his going back to schoo! (act 1. ec. 2). 

In 1 Henry JV. the carrier complaina 


that “the turkeys in his pannier are sl 


starved” (act ii. sc. 5), whereas turkeys 
cawe from America, and the New World 
was not even discovered for a century 
after. Againin Heury V. Gower is made 
to say to Fluellen, “ Here comes Pistol, 
eweil.ng likea turkey-cock " (net v. sc. 1). 

In Jaliue Carevr, Urutus says to 
Cassius, * Peace. count the clock.” To 


which Casaius replics, © The clock haa | 


stricken three.” Clocks were nol known 
to the Romans, and striking-clocks were 
pet invented till some L400 years after 
the death of Cesar. 

Virgin places -Eness in the port 
Velinus, which was made by Uurius 
Den atus. 

This list with very little trouble 
mizht be greatly multiplied. The hotbed 
of anachronisms is medimval romance; 
there nations, times, anid places are moet 
recklessly disregarded. This may be 
instanced by a few examples from 
Arivato’s great poem Orlandy Furiony. 

Here we have Charlemagne and bis 
aladins joined by Edward king of 
Pugland. Richard earl of Warwick, Hen- 
ty duke of Clarence, and the dukes of 
York and Gloucester (Lk. vi.). Wehave 
eapnons employed by Cymoseo king of 
Friza (bk. iv.), and also in the elege of 
Paris (bk. vi.). We have the Moors 


eztablished in Spain, whereas (hey were | 


pot invited over by the Saracens for 
nearly 300 years after Charlemagne’s 
death. In bk. xvii. we have Prester Jolin, 








ANAGRAMS. 





who died in 1202; and in the last three 


books we have Constantine the Great, whe 
died in 337. 


Anac’reon, the prince of erotic and 
bacchanalian poets, insomuch that songs 
on these subjects are still called Anac- 
reon'tic (n.c. 563-478). 

Anacreon of Painters, Francesco Al- 
Laino or Alba'ni (1578-1660). 

Anacreon of the Guillotine, Bertrand 
Bartre de Vieuzac (1755-18-41). 

Anacreon of the Temple, Guillaume 


Amfrye, abbé de Chaulieu (1639-1720). 


Anacreon of the Twelfth Century, 
Walter Mapes, ‘The Jovial Toper."” His 
famous drinking song, ‘‘Meum est pro- 
pone . «' has been translated by Leigh 
Hunt (1150-1196). 

The French Anacreon. 1. Pontus de 
Thiard, one of the ‘Pleiad poets” 
(1521-1605). 2. P. oped ed aaa pre- 
sident of the Caveau Moderne, a Paris 
club, noted for its good dinners, but every 
member was of necessity a poet (1727- 


1511). 
The Persian Anacreon, Mahommed 
Hafiz. The collection of his poems is 


called Tie Jiean (1310-1389). : 
The Sicilian Anacreon, Giovanni Meli 
(1740-1815). 


Anacreon Moore, Thomas Moore 
of Dublin (17#U-1852), poet, called ‘* Anac- 
reon,'’ from his translation of that Greek 
poct, and his own orginal anacreontic 
sons. 

Described by Mabomet and Anacreon Moore. 
Byron, Don Juan, L 104 
Anadems, crowns of flowers. 


With fingers neat and Ane 
Lirave anadems they make. 
Crayton, Polycibion, xv. (1619), 


Anagnus, Inchastity personified in 
The Purple /eland, by Phineas Fletcher 
(canto vii.). He had four eons by Caro, 
named Mwchus(adultery), Pornei’us( for- 
nicatiow), Acath’arus, and Asel’gés (/as- 
all of whom are fully des- 
cribed by the poet. In the battle of Man- 
agul (canto xi.) Anognus is slain by 


ciciglsieee |, 


| Acuei’n (wifely chastity), the spouse of 


Enera’tes (temperance) and sister of Par- 
then'ia (mardenly chastity.) (Greek, an- 
agnos, “impure.”) (1633.) 

Anagrams. 

Cuances Jawes Stuart (James I.). 
Claima Arthur's Seat. 

Dawe Exeanor Davies (prophetees in 
he reign of Charles I.). Never so mad 
a fadie. 








AND ARE YE SURE. 


87 


ANDRONICUS. 





Drayton was born. Hence Wm. Browne 
ealls him the shepherd, 
Who on the banks of Ancor tuned his pipe. 
Sritannia'’s Pastorals, 1. & (1613). 
And are ye sure... (See Bur...) 


An'derson (Eppie), @ servant at the 
mn of St. Ronan’s Well, held by Me 
Dods.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan's Well 
(ume, George III.). 


André (2 syi.), Petit-André and Trois 
Echelles are the executioners of Louis XI. 
of France. They are introduced ty sir 
W. Scott, both in Quentin Durward and 
in dane of Geierstein. 

André, the hero and title of a novel 
bw George Sand (Mde. Dudevant). This 
novel and that called Consuelo (4 syl.) are 
considered her best (1804-1876). 


An’drea Ferrara, a sword, 80 
called from a famous Italian sword- 
maker of the name. Strictly speaking, 
enly a broad-sword orclaymore should be 
80 called. 

There's nae de thing as standing a Hightlander’s Andrew 
Ferara; they will slaughle aff a falluw'’s bead at a dash 
aap.—C. Macklin, Love d-tu-mode (1779). 

Andre’os, Fortitude personified in 
Tie Purple Island, by Phineas Fletcher 
(canto x.). ‘* None fiercer to a stubborn 
enemy, but to the yielding none more 
sweetly kind.” (Greek, andria or andreia, 
‘‘ manliness.”’) 


An'drew, gardener, at Ellangowan, 
to Godfrey Bertram the laird.—Sir W. 
Scott, Guy Mannering (time, George I1.). 


Andrews, a private in the royal army 
of the duke of Monmouth.—Sir W. Scott, 
Ud SMurtality (time, Charles IJJ.). 


Andreics (Joseph), the hero and title 
of a novel by Fielding. He is a footman 
who marries a maid-servant. Joseph 
Andrews is a brother of [Richardson's] 
‘‘Pamela,” a handsome, model young 
man. 

The accounts of Joseph's bravery and good qualities, 
his voce toy muvical to halloa to the dogs, bis bravery in 
tiding races fur the gentlemen of the county, and his 
constancy in refusing bribes and temptation, bave 
eorsething refreshing in thelr naiveté and (reshress, and 
prepo-wess one in favuur of that handsome young hero. 
—t y. 

Androclus and the Lion. An- 
droclus was a runaway Roman slave, who 
took refuge in a cavern. A lion entered, 
and instead of tearing him to pieces, 
lifted up its fore paw that Androclus might 
extract from it a thorn. The fuyitive, 
being subsequently captured, was dvomed 
to tight with a lion in the Koman arena, 
and it so happened that the very same 





lion was let out against him ; it instantly 
recognized its benefactor, and began tc 
fawn upon him with every token of 
gratitude and joy. The story being told 
of this strange behaviour, Androclus was 
forthwith set free. 

A somewhat similar anecdote is told of 
sir George Davis, English consul at 
Florence at the beginning of the present 
century. One day he went to see the 
lions of the great duke of Tuscany. 
There was one which the keepers could 
not tume, but no sooner did sir George 
appear, than the beast manifested every 
symptom of joy. Sir George entered 
the cage, when the creature leaped on his 
shoulder, licked his face, wagged its tail, 
and fawned like adug. Sir George told 
the great duke that he had brought up 
this lion, but as it grew older it became 
dangerous, and he sold it to a Barbary 
captain. The duke,said he bought it of 
the same man, and the mystery was 
cleared up. 


Andromache [ An.drom'.a.ky], widow 
of Hector. At the downfall of Troy both 
she and her son Astv‘anax were allotted 
to Pyrrhus king of Epirus, and Pyrrhus 
fell in love with her, but she repelled his 
advances. At length a Grecian embassy, 
led by Orestés son of Agamemnon, 
arrived, and demanded that Astyanax 
should be given up and put to death, lest 
in manhood he should attempt to avenge 
his father’s death. Pyrrhus told Andro- 
mache that he would protect her son in 
defiance of all Greece if she would become 
his wife, and she reluctantly consented 
thereto. While the marriage ceremonies 
were going on the ambassadors rushed on 
Pyrrhus and slew him, but as he fell he 
placed the crown on the head of Andro- 
maché, who thus became the queen of 
Epirus, and the ambassadors hastened to 
their ships in flight.—Ambrose Philips, 
The Distressed Mother (1712). 

*,* Andromahe was a favourite part 
with Charlotte Clarke, daughter of Colley 
Cibber (1710-1760), and with Mrs. Yates 
(1737-1787). 

Androni’ea, one of Logistilla’s hand- 


maids, noted for her beauty.—Aniosto, 
Orlando Furioso (1516), 


Androni’cus ( 7itus), a noble Roman 
general against the Goths, father of La- 
vin’ia. In the play go called, published 
amonyst those of Shakespeare, the word 
all through is called Andron'icus (1593). 

Marcus Andronicus, brother of ‘Titus, 
and tribune of. the people. 








ANDROPHILUS. 


Androph'‘ilus, Philanthre 
eonified in Zhe Jurple Joland, by Phim 
Fletcher (1633). Fully desenibed in 
conto x, (Greek, Andro-philos, “ - lover 
of mankind.”) 


An'‘eal (2 ay/,), daughter of Mau'ni, 
who loves Djabal, and believes im to be 
“hakcem’’ (the incarnate 1 and 
founder of the Drases) returned Wo life 
for the restoration of the people and 
their return to Syria from exile im the 
Spo'radés. When, however, she diacovers 
hie imposture, she dies in the bitterness 
of her disappointment,—Hobert Browning, 

he Aeturn of the Dirases. 

Angel. When the Rev. Mr, Patten, 
vicar of Whitstable, was dving, rch- 
bishop of Canterbury sent him £10; and 
the wit said, * Tell hia grace that now | 





own him to be a man of God, for | have 


aeen Dis ampels.” 

To write /ike an Angel, thet is like 
Ange! [Vergecios],a Greck of the fifteenth 
century, noted for his caligmphy. 

Dense de Piew, leabenu la belle, the 
“ioepired prophet-child” of the Cami- 
éards, 


Angels (Orders of). According to 
Dict nus the Areopagite, the angels are 
divided anto mine orders: Seraphim and 
Cherubim, in the urse Thrones 


Hi ] 
CIPCVe y 


per- 











Foord (1598). 

Anjelien, on beirese with whom Va- 
lentine Lerend is in love. For a time 
he is unwilling to declare himself because 
of his debts; but Angelica gets possession 
of a bond for £400), and tears it. The 
money difficulty being adjusted, the 
Muirriage is arranged amicably.—W. Con- 
grieve, oce for Love (1695), 


[Mir Aeoe Brecegindie | equally dalighiold in ooslting 
tendletness aol plivlel omquecry, in “ Aieiiee ~ of “ Mile 
Rant ;” «od eves sian edveorel age, whem abe played 


“ Ameeliee “fs” Peele 








ANGELIQUE. 








ANGUISANT. 





(2 syf.). In order to prove whether his 
wife or daughter loved him the better, 
Aryan pretended to be dead, whereupon 
the wife rejoiced greatly that she was 
relieved of a ‘‘diagusting creature,” hated 
by every one; but the daughter grieved as 
tf her neart would break, rebuked herself 
for her shortcomings, and vowed to devote 
the rest of her life in poyer for the re 
of his soul. Argan, being assured of his 
daughter's love, gave his free consent to 
ber i with Cléante. — Molitre, 
Malade Imajinaire (1673). 


Anjelique, the aristocratic wife of George 
Dandin, a French commoner. She has a 
liaison with a M. Clitandre, but always 
contrives to turn the tables on her hus- 
band. Geo Dandin first hears of a 
tendezvous from one Lubin, a foolish 
servant of Clitandre, and lays the affair 
before M. and Mde. Sotenville, his wife's 

The baron with George Dandin 
call on the lover, who denies the accu- 
sation, and George Dandin has to 
pardon. Subsequently, he catches his 
wife and Clitandre together, and sends at 
once fur M. and Mde. Sotenville; but 
Angelique, aware of their presence, pre- 
tends to denounce her lover, and even 
takes up a stick to beat him for the ‘‘in- 
sult offered to a virtuous wife ;” so again 
the parents declare their daughter to be 
the very parazon of women. Lastly, 
Georze Dandin detects his wife and Cli- 
tandre together at night-time, and succeeds 
in shutting his wife out of her room ; but 
Angelique now pretends to kill herself, 
and when George goes for a light to look 
for the body, she rushes into her room 
and shuts him out. At this crisis the 
parents arrive, when Angelique accuses 

er husband of being out all night in a 

debauch ; and he is made to beg her pardon 
on his knees.—Moliere, Georye Dandin 
(1663). 


An’gelo, in Measure for Measure, lord 
deputy of Vienna in the absence of Vin- 
centio the duke. His betrothed lady is 
Maria’na. Lord elo conceived a base 

ion for Isabella, sister of Claudio, but 

is designs were foiled by the duke, who 

compelled him to marry Mariana.— 
Shakespeare (1603). 


An'jelo, a gentleman, fnend to Julio in 
The Captamn, a drama by Beaumont and 
Fletcher (1613). 


Anger...the Alphabet. It was 
Athenodu’rus_ the State who advised 


Augu stus to repeat the alphabet when ee 
felt inclined to give way to anger. 
Un certain Grec disait & l'empereur Auguste, 
e une instruction atlle autant gue juste, 
, lorsqu’ une aventure en colére nous met, 
ous devons, avant tout, dire notre alphabet, 
Afin que dans ce temps la bile se tempére, 
Bt quion ne fase rien que l'on ne doive faire. 
Molidre, L'école des Fommes, iL 4 (106% 


ioli’na (4 syl.), daughter of 
Loreda’na, and the oung wife of Mari’no 
Faliero, the one of Venice. A patrician 
named Michel Steno, having behaved in- 
decently to some of the women assembled 
at the great civic banquet given by the 
doge, was kicked out of the house by 
order of the doge, and in revenge wrote 
some scurrilous lines against the do 
ressa. This insult was referred to ‘ The 
Forty,” and Steno was sentenced to two 
months’ imprisonment, which the doge 
considered a very inadequate punishment 
for the offence.—Byron, Marino Faliero. 


The character of the calm, pure-spirited Angiolina ts 
deve'uped most admirably. The great difference between 
her temper and that of her fiery husband is vividly por- 
trayed, but not less vividly touched {s that strong bond of 

on which exists in the common nobleness of thelr decp 
natures. There is no spark of jealousy in the old man's 
thoughts. He dves not expect the fervour of youthful 
passion in his young wl.e; but he finds what is far better— 
the fearless confidenco of one so innvcent that she can 
scarcely believe In the existence of guilt. . . . She thinks 
Bteno's test punishment will be ‘the blushes uf his 
privacy.” —Lockhart. 

Anglan'te’s Lord, Orlando, who 
was lord of Anglanté and knight of 


Brava.—Ariosto, Orlando Furioso (1516). 


An’glesey, i.e. Angles ed-land (the 
island of the English). Edwin king of 
Northumberland, ‘‘warred with them that 
dwelt in the Isle of Mona, and they 
became his servants, and the island was 
no longer called Mona, but Anglesey, the 
isle of the English.” 


An’glides (3 syi.), wife of good prince 
Boud'wine (2 syl.), brother to sir Mark 
king of Cormwall (‘‘the falsest traitor 
that ever was born"). When king Mark 
slew her husband, Anylides and her son 
Alisaunder made their escape to Mazounce 
(i.e. Arundel), where she lived in peace, 
and brought up her son till he received 
the honour of knixhthood.—SirT. Malory, 
Hist. of Pr. Arthur, ii. 117, 118 (1470). 


An’glo-ma/nia, generally applied to 
a French or German imitation of the 


- manners, customs, ete., of the English. 


It prevailed in France some time before 
the first Revolution, and was often ex- 
tremely ridiculous. 


An’guisant, king of Erin (Jreland), 
subdued by king Arthur fighting in behalf 








ANNIR. 


Annir, king of Inis-thona (an island | 


of Seandinavia). He had two sons (Argon 
and Ruro) and one daughter. One day 


Cor'malo, a neighbouring chief, came and 
| the honour of a tournament. 
Argon granted the request, and overthrew 


him, which so vexed Cormalo that during 
a hunt he shot both the brothers secretly 
with his bow. Their dog Runs ran to 
the palace, and howled so as to attract 
attention; wherenpon Annir followed the 
hound, and found both his sons dead, 
and on his return he further found that 
Cormalo bad carried off his danghter. 
Osear, son of Ossian, led an army agammat 
the villain, and slew him ; then liberating 


the young lady, he took her back to Inis- | 


thena, and delivered her to her father.— 
Ossian (** The War of Inis-thona"). 


An'nophel, daughter of Cas’ silane 
(3 sy/.) general of Candy. 
and Fletcher, Zhe Laws of Candy (1647). 

Snort, rior of St. Dominic, the 
confesso ing Henry IV 


Scott, The fair Maid ot Perth (time, 
Henry IV.). 


Anselme (2 syl.), father of Valtre 
(2 sy.) and Mariane (3 sy/.). In reality 
he is don Thomas d’Alburci, of Naples. 
The family were exiled from Naples for 
pelitica!l reasons, and being shipwrecked 
were all parted. Valére was picked up 
by a Spanish captain, who adopted him; 
Mariane fell into the hands of « corsair, 
who kept her a captive for ten years, when 
she eflected her escape; and Anseluie 








wandered from place to place for ten | 


years, when he settled in Paris, and 
Intended to marry. 
sixteen VCare they al] met in Varis nt the 
house of Har'pagon, the miser. Valére 
was in love with Eliwe (2 sy/.), the 
nuser's daughter, promised by Ilarpagon 
in marriage to Anselme ; and Mariane, 
affanced tu the misers son Cléante (2 sy/.), 
was sought in marriage by Harpaon, 
the old father. As soon as Anselme 
discovered that Valére and Mariane were 
his oven children, matters were soon amic- 
ably arranged, the young people married, 
and the old ones retired from the unequal 
sontest.—Molicre, £'Arare (1007). 


Anselmo, a noble cavalier of 
lorence, the friend of Lothario. An- 
elma wiarcked Camilla, and induced his 
friend to try to currupt her, that he might 
wjoice in ber incorruptible fidelity. 
Lotharie unwillingly undertook the task, 
and suvceeded but tuo well, Fur a time 





Anselmo was deceived, but at | 


At the expiration of | 








ANTHONIO. 


Camilla eloped, and the end of the a1 
affair was that Anselmo died of grie? 
Lothario was slain in battle, and Camilla 
died in a convent.—Cervantes, Don 
Quixote, 1. iv. 5, 6; Fatal Curiosity (1605). 

An'ster (Hv), a constable at 
Kinross village.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Alot (time, Elizabeth), 

; Ant. Ants’ eggs are an antidote to 
ove, 

Ants never sleep, Emerson says this 
ig a “recently observed fact."—.Vature, 
iv. 

Ants have mind, etc. “In formica non 
modo sensus, sed etiam mens, ratio, 
memoria.”"—Pliny. 

Ant (Sulomen's), one of the ten ani- 
mala admitted into paradise, aceordin 
to the Koran, ch. xxvii. (See Maiyats} 

Ants fay up a store for the winter, 
This is an error in natural histery. 
as ants are torpid during the winter. 


Ante'os, a gigantic wrestler of 
Libya (ur Irassa). llis strength was 
inexhaustible so long os he tonvhed the 
earth, and was renewed every time he did 
touch it, Mer'culés killed him ly lifting 
hin. up from the earth and squeezing him 
to death, (Sce MALEGEK.) 

As when earths son Antous . . in [rae trove 

With Juve's Alchiie, aod off follesl, et) roe, 
Leceiviit frank ble mutler carth new strength, 
Freshi (rot lite fat. Amd Bercer grapqele julie, 
Thrvtiled at length | the wir, einiirel anal fell, 
Milton, Parodia Hepained, bw. (1671). 

*." Similarly, when IJsernardo del 
Carpio assailed Orlando or Kowland 
at Koneesvallées, ashe found bis body was 
net to be joerced by any instrument of 
war, be took him up im his arms and 
squeezed him to death. 

N.E.—The only vulnerable part of Or- 
lando was the sole of hia fwot, 


Ante'nor, a traitorous Trojan prince, 
related ty I'rium. He advised Ulyssés to 
carry away the jialladium from Troy, and 
when the wooden horse was built it was 
Antenor who urged the Trojans to makea 
breach in the wall and drag the horse 
into the city.—Shakespear: jius intro- 
duced him in Zrui/us und Cressi (1602), 


Anthi'a, the lady beloved by Abroe’- 
omas in the Greek rouwmnce called 
De Amoriius <Anthie ct Abrocome, by 
Xenophon of Mphesua, who lived in tle 
fourth Christian century, (This is net 
Xenophen the histerian, who lived B.c. 
444-354.) 


Anthonio, “the merchant of Ve 











ANTIPHOLOUS. 





ANTONY. 





Her charms were ‘the glowing modesty 
of her countenance, her silent diffidence, 
end her sweet reserve ; her constant at- 
tention to tapestry or to some other useful 
and elegant employment ; her diligence 
in household affairs, her contempt of 
finery in dress, and her ignorance of her 
own beauty.” Telemachus says, ‘ She 
encourages to industry by her example, 
sweetens labour by the melody of her 
voice, and excels the best of painters in 
the elegance of her embroidery.”— 
Fénelon, Tdémaque, xxii. (1700). 

Me (Pexf} fancied he had found in Virginia the 
whdom Antiope with the misfortunes and the 
tenderness of 
end Virginia (1788). 

Antiph’olus, the name of two 
brothers, twins, the sons of Hge’on a 
merchant of Syracuse. The two brothers 
were shipwrecked in infancy, and, being 
picked up by different cruiscrs, one was 
carried to syracuse, and the other 
Ephesas. e Ephesian entered the 
service of the duke, and, being fortunate 
enough to save the duke’s life, became a 
great man and marricd well. The Syra- 
cusian Antipholus, going in search of 
his brother, came to Ephesus, where a 
series of blunders occurs from the won- 
derful likeness of the two brothers and 
their two servants called Dromio. The 
confusion becomes so great that the 
Ephesian is taken up as a mad man. It 
s) happened that both brothers appeared 
before the duke at the same time; and 
the extraordinary likeness being seen by 
all. the canse of the blunders was evident, 
and everything was satisfactorily °>x- 
plained.—Shakespeare, Comedy of Errors 
(1593), 


Antiph’ony, alternate singing of 
opposite choirs, as when pealins are 
inoned in cathedrals. 

Ow ! never more for me shall winds intone 
Wish all your topes a vast antiphony. 
Robert Browning, 4 Biet on the ‘srutcheon. 

Anton (ir). Tennyson says that 
Merlin vave Arthur, when an infant, to sir 
Anton and his lady to bring up, and they 
brought him up as their own gon. This 
dees not correspond with the History of 
l'rince Arthur, which states that he was 
committed to the enre of sir Ector and 
his lady, whose eon, sir Key, is over 
and over again called the prince's foster- 
brother. ‘Lhe History furthermore states 
that Arthur made sir Key his seneschal 
benzuse he was his foster-brother. 


Bu che child was delivere! unte Merlin, and he bare 
few forth anty ar Letor, aod made a huly nian christén 


him, and named him * Arther.” And so sir Ector’ 
nourished him with her own breast.—Part i. 3. _—/ 


Anton, one of Henrv Smith's men in 
The Fair Maid of Perth, by sir W. 
Scott (time, Henry IV.). 


Anto’niad, the name of Cleopatra « 
ship at the battle of Actium, so named 
in compliment to Mark Antonv.—Plu- 


Anto’nio, a sea captain who saved 
Sebastian, the brother of Vi’ola, when 
wrecked off the coast of [llvria.— 
Shakespeare, Twelfth Night (1614). 


Anto’nio, the Swiss lad who acts as 
the guide from Lucem, in sir W. Scott's 
Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Anto'nio, a stout old gentleman, kins- 
man of Petruccio, governor of Bologna.— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe Chances 
(a comedy, before 1621). 


Antonio (Don), father of Carlos a 
bookwomn, and Clodio a coxcomb; a 
testy, headstrong old man. He wants 
Carlos to sign away his birthright in 
favour of his younger brother, to whom 
he intends Angelina to be married ; but 
Carlos declines to give his signature, and 
elopes with Angelina, whom he marries, 
while Clodio engages his troth to Elvira 
of Lisbon.—C. Cibber, Love AMukes a 

an. 


Antonio (Don), in love with Louisa, the 

daughter of don Jerome of Seville. A 
or nobleman of ancient family.— 
heridan, Zhe Ducnna (1778). 


Antonomas’ia (Tie princess), 
daughter of Archipiela, king of Candaya, 
and his wife Mayuncia. She marnmicd 
don Clavijo, but the giant Malambru’no, 
by enchantment, changed the bride intoa 
brass monkey, and her spouse into a 
crocodile of some unknown metal. Don 
Quixote mounted the wooden horse 
Clavileno the Winged, to disenchant the 
lady and her husband, and this he 
effected ‘simply by making — the 
attempt.”"—Cervantes, Don Quirete, II. 
ili. 4, 5 (1615). 


Antony (Suint) lived in a cavern on 











APOLLYON. 





feet high, made by Charts, a pupil of 


Lysip and set up B.c. 300. 

Anenale consecrated to Apollo, the cock, 
the crow, the grassbopper, the hawk, the 
raven, the swan, and the wolf. 


poll’yon, king of the bottomless 
pit introduced by Bunyan in his 
iljrim’s Progress. Apollyon encounters 
Christian, by whom, after a severe 
contest, he is foiled (1678). 


Apostle or Patron Saint of— 
aBTOSINLAIS, St. Framentius (died 380). His day, 


October 27. 
ALra, Feltx Neff (1798-1839). 
A.‘Trocan, 8t. Marearet (died 273). Her day, July 90. 


AxpExxxa, Ot. Hubert (668-730). 

ARMENIANS, Gregory of Armenia (256-331). 

CaGlisani (Sardinial, 8t. Efisin. 

CugFu, 6. Spirkiion (fvurth century). His day, Decem- 


ber 14 
Exutisn, St. Angustin (died 607); St. George (died 290). 
Bruturta. Se. Frumentius (ded 300, His day, Octo- 
Frawusia, 8 Kilian (died 689). His day, July & 
Faces Traps, Richard Cobden (1804-1865). 
Frexcu, Be. Denis (died ash His day, October 9. 


Gipgsia, St. Nino. 

GERMANT, Bt Boniface (680-755). His day, June 5. 

Hicntaspars, &t. Calumb (521-897). His dav, Jane 9. 

Hcesesatasa, Bt Anastasius (died 6278). His day, 
January 22. 

Lypiasa, Bartolomé de Las Casas (1474-1566); Rev. John 
Eliut (103-1640). 

IspDiexs, 8 Francis Xavier (1506-1552). His day, Decem- 


ber 3 

S<rrpenrty, Voltaire (1694-1778). 

Inte s, St. Patrick (272-493). Hie day, March 17. 

LisexTy, Thomas Jefferson, third president of the U.8. 
17 45-lss6} 

Lospox, Be Panl; 8t. Michael. Days, January 25; 
September £9. 

NrTMeERLAXIM, St. Armand (589-679). 

Nogrn, St Anegar (801-864); Bernard Gilpin (1517-1563). 

Papca, &. Anthony (1195-1231). His day, June 13. 

Pagis, St Genevieve (419-512). Her day, January 3. 

PEAk, W. Ragshaw, 90 called from his missionary labours 
in Dertsyshtre (1638-1702). 

Picts, &t, Ninian. 

fovrriag Raerpoawega, John Knox (1505-1572). 

BICILY (the tutelary deity is) Cerés. 

BLavEn, St. Cyril (died 885). His day, February 14. 

Spats, St. James the Greater (died H). His day, July 2. 

Tuxpamanca Father Mathew (1780-1856). 

Vexicy. 8t. Mark; St Pantaleon; St Andrew JustinianL 
St. Mark's day, April 25; St. Pantaleon’s, July 27. 

Youxsuing, St Pauli’nus. bebop of York (507-644). 

Watas, 8t David (480-541) His day, March 1. 


A e of Free Trade, Richard 
Cobden (1804-1865). John Bright is 
also so called (1811- +). 


Apostolic Fathers (The Fire): 
Clement of Rome, Barnabas, Hermas, 
Igna‘tius, and Polycarp. All contem- 
porary with the apostles. 

Ap’petiser. A Scotchman being told 
that the birds called kittiewiaks were ad- 
mirable appetisers, ate six of them, and 
then complained ‘‘he was no hungrier 
than he was before.” 


Apple (Prince Ahmed’s), a cure for 





ee ow eR 


AQUILINE. 
every disorder.—Arahbian Nights’ Enter- 
tainments (‘‘ Ahmed and Pari-banou”). 

The Singing Apple, the perfect eme 
bellisher of wit. It would persuade by 
its smell alone, and would enable the 
possessor to write poetry or prose, to 
make people laugh or cry, and discoursed 
such excellent music as to ravish every 
one.—Countess D'Aunoy, Fairy Tales 
(‘Chery and Fairstar,” 1682). 


Apples of Sodom (called by Wit- 
man, oranjcs) are the yellow fruit of 
the osher or ashey tree. Tacitus (fHis- 
tory, v. 7) and Josephus both refer to 
these apples. Thevenot says, ‘‘ The 
fruit is lovely [externally], but within is 
full of ashes.” 


The fruit of the osher or ashey tree. called °* Apples or 
Oranges of Sodom,” resembles a smooth apple or orange, 
hangs in clusters of three or four on a branch, and is of 
a yellow colour when ripe. Upon bel struck or 
pressed, it explodes with a puff, and {s reduced to the 
rind and afew fibres, being chiefly filled with alr.— 
Gallery of Geography, 811. 


Like to the apples on the Dead Sea shore, 
All ashes to the taste. 
Byron, Childe Harold, iti. 4. 
Appul’durcombe (4 g/.), the 
Isle of Wight. The word is a com- 
pound of apuldre-combe (‘ valley of apple 
trees"), and not y pul dur y cum (‘‘ the 
lake in the valley ”). 


April Fool. One of the favour 
ite Londun jokes was to send green- 
horns to the Tower, “to sce the lions 
washed.”—See Dictionary of Phrase and 

‘able. 


April Showers. 
bring May flowe-s. 
Sweet April showers do spring May flowers. 

T. Tusser, 500 foints of Good Husbandry, xxxix. (1557), 


Aquarius, Sagittarius. Mrs. 
Browning says that ‘ Aquarius” is & 
symbol of man beariny, and “ Sagit- 
tarius” of man combitting. The passive 
and active forins of human tabour. 

Eve. Two phantasmns of two men. 
ddam One that su-tiins, 
And one that strives, so the ends 
Of manhoods cur e of labour. 
EB. B. Browning, A rama of Exile (1851). 

A’quilant, son of Olive’ro and 
Sigismunda; a knight in Charlemagne’s 
army. He was called ‘‘hlack,” and his 
brother Gryphon “wiite,” from the colour 
of their armour.—Arivsto, Orlanda 
Furioso (1516). 


A’quiline (3 sy/.), Raymond's steed, 
whose sire wag the wind.—Tasso, Jerwe 
galem Delicered, vir. (1575). 

(Solinus, Columella, and Varro relate 
how the Lusitanian marcs “ with open 











April showers 








ARCADES AMBO. 


rustic of Domrémy, near Vaucouleurs, in 
France. She was servant at an inn when 
ahe conceived the ides of liberating France 
from the English. Having gained ad- 
mission to Charles VII., she was sent by 
him to raise the siege of Urlenns, and 
actually succeeded in so doing. Schiller 
has a tragedy on the subject, Casimir 
Delavigne an elegy on her, Southey an 
epic poem on her life and death, and 
Voltaire a burlesque. 

In regard to her death, M. Octave 
Delepitre, in bis Doute Historique, denies 
the tradition of her having been burnt to 
death at Rouen; and Vignier discovered 
io a family moniment chest the “contract 
of marriage between” Robert des Annoise, 
knight, and Jeanne d'Arc, surnamed “‘ The 
Maid of Orleans,” 

Ar’cades Ambo, both fools alike ; 
both ‘“‘sweet innocents;" both alike 
eccentric. There is nothing in the cha- 
racter of Corydon and Thyrsia (Virgil's 
Eclayue, vii. 4) to justify this disparaging 
application of the phrase, All Virgil 
says is they were both ‘in the flower of 
their youth, and bwth Arendians, both 
equal in setting a theme for song or cap- 
ping it epigrammatically ;" but as Ar- 


eadia was the least intellectual part of | 


Greece, an “' Arcadian” came to siynify a 
dunce, and hence “ Arcades ambo” re- 
ceived its present acceptation. 

Arca'dia, a pastoral romance by sir 
Philip Sidney, in imitation of the Lhan’a 
of Montemayor (sixteenth century). 

Arcala’'us (4 my/.), an enchanter who 
bound Am‘adis de Gaul to a pillar in his 
courtyard, and administered to him 200 
stmpes with his horse's bridle.—Amuads 
de Gaul (fifteenth century). 

Arca'nes (3 sy/.), a noble soldier, 
friend of Cas‘silane (3 ayi/.) general of 
Candy.—Beaumont and Fletcher, The 
Laws of Candy (1647). 

Archan'geL Burroughs, the puritan 
preacher, called Cromwell “‘the arch- 
ang! that did battle with the devil.” 

Archas, “‘the loral subject" of the 
great duke of Moscovia, and yeneral of 
the Moscovites. His son is colonel Theo- 
dure. 

Fiung Archas, son of the jeneral, 
lhacuised og a woman, he assumes the 
aame of Alinda.—Leaumont and Fletcher, 
The Loyal Subject (1618). 

Archbish'op of Grana'‘da told his 
@ecretary, Gil LB when he hired him, 


“Whenever thon shalt perceive my pen 





ARCHY M‘SARCASM. 


emack of old age and my genius flag, 
don't fail to advertise me of it, for I don't 





| trust tomy own judgment, which may be 


seduced by self-love.” After a fit of 
apoplexy, Gil Blas ventured in the most 
delicate manner to hint to his grace that 
‘his last discourse had not altogether 
the energy of his former ones.” To this 
the archbishop replied, ‘‘ You are yet too 
raw to make proper distinctions. Know, 
child, that 1 never composed a better 
homily than that which you disapprove. 
Go, tell my treasurer to give you 100 
ducats, Adien, Mr, Gil Blas; "1 wish 
you all manner of prosperity, with a little 
more taste."—Lesage, Gi Blas, vii. 3 
(1715). 

Ar’cher (Francis), friend of Aimwell 
who gan him in fortune-hunting. These 
are the two “beaux.” Thomas viscount 
Aimwell marries Dorinda, the daughter 
of lady Bountiful. Archer hands the 
deeds and property taken from the hiyh- 
waymen to sir Charles Freeman, who 
takes his sister, Mrs. Sullen, under his 
charge agnin.—George Farquhar, Zhe 
Beaus’ Strutugem (1707). 


Arch'ibald (Jo/n), attendant on the 
dnke of Arcyle.—Sir W. Scott, Hcurt 
of Afidlothian (time, George II.). 


Archima'go, the reverse of holiness, 
and therefore Satan the father of lies 
and all deception. Assuming the guise 
of the Kel Crowa Knight, he deceived 
Una; and under the guise of a hermit, he 
deceived the knight himself. Archimago 
is introduced in bks.i, andii. of Spenser's 
Futry Queen, The poet gays: 

., me could take 
As many forma are! -hapes fa seeming wise 
Asever Proteus to bimeelf oratd make : 
Konectimes & fowl, sometimes a fsb mn lake, 
Huw |ike a fit, now like a dragon fell. 
Bperuer, The Maery Queen, I. ii, 10 (1590) 

Ar'chy M'‘Sar'casm (Sir), ‘‘a proud 
Caledonian knight, whose tongue, like the 
dartof death, spares neither sex norage... 
His insolenee of family and licentious- 
ness of wit gained him the contempt of 
every one” (1. 1). Sir Archy tells Char- 
lotte, ““In the house of M‘Sarcasm are 
twa barons, three viscounts, six earls. ane 
marjuisnte, and twa dukes, besides barv- 
nets and lairds oot o' a’ reckoning ” (i. 1). 
He makes love to Charlotte Goodchild, 
but supposing it to be true that she 
has lost her fortune, declares to her that 
he hos just received letters ‘‘frae the 
dukes, the marquis, and a’ the dignitaries 
of the family . . . expreasly prohibiting 
his contaminating the blood of M‘Sarcasm 








ARCHYTAS. 


wi onvthing spring from o hogehead or | 


a ceonting-house " (ii. 1). 


The rer: ‘Pema er cae Ne Null Sui | Fivlbew*iem He 
Wiis de berate Dl onl ly eared, Ae rete ae 
bliviest taanied ln ani T, Glew wel 
erereO). ile etree Vow ouwneio hevnyoeln, ‘(Galle Ser 

Sie Amal bbe ity rere why et heme why, ore Moaglat tale fut 
fer @ perindolwwk dart of @ twice fi —D. =O Macklin, 


Lere a-iaimnls, | | (ip) 


Sir Archy's Ctreut--prammetier, Sir 
Arels M: SUPCAAM Ins state cL ey fighting air 
Callavhay OHrallazhan of @ poink of 
Anccstry. The 
lrieh are nw oO loony rpm Scotland, “an 
ootcoal, & Mere owt ist,” The lriahosan 
trl arto. bey aAVIng that * ‘oot Mac Fergus 
O'rallaghan went fron Carnekferrus, 
and peopled all Seotland with iw own 
hatide.” Charlotte [loodehild) inter 
jWeod, and asked ae couse of the oon- 
Lutlion, wheres pot, ar allogharn replied, 
Alin lew, it 1s atoout cir Apch Greal- 
gr rary eael Mac Klin, Lone "tne 
foe 1 (178). 

Ws et fel new ehay to qoarrel alool ale Arche 
ral fiidmother.—Macphenon, Diaeriaiien aya 
Cie ae 

Archy'tas of Tarentum made a 
Wemden plzeon that could iy; mrad hegio- 
Monta tus, @ Lerman, made «a wooden 
eavle iat few iro wi Kamicshberc to niect 
Loe eniperor, and » having ealuted bim, 
tulurned whenve it set out (1496-1476), 


T Whe Figiod Wop bey SoTL i reyel from the sume prin | 





af Ale re ey 
ce Rialcwee | | 


Scotchman @aid that the 








ARETHUSA. 
Ar‘den of Fev‘ersham,a noble cha- 
honourable, forgiving, 
and modeat. Hie . wits Alicin in ber sleep 
roveat« to him her guilty love for Mosby, 


bet he pordens her on condition that 
Sen will nover seo 


part, asd throws bios of his 
rd. ‘Arden "thinks he haa . 
ant wand invites him to hie howe, Lor 


eomepires with two bined rfians 
raw Aan 


is host du 
by lite, the right moment 
osby'w saying, “Now I take you, 
eden ia baienierete i but the whole Kang 
is approhended and bron; to ft 
(This drama is t 
which took place in 1851, a A 


hus translated the play inte German, Tr} 
Fenaine production of Shakespeare. = 


asenbe the play to George Lillo, bot 
Charles Lamb gives 1592 o6 the date of 
ita production, and says the mutwer ls 
wnknown, ) 


Ardenne (Water of). This wat 
had the power of converting love to hate. 
The fountain was made by Merlin, to cure 
air Tretram of his love for Isolt (but sir 


or (Aeeank wi ce) Ve 


& pune of 


in 


A 


a kl a 
Vrictre en Tae es ue 








ARETHUSE. 49 


end now, “like friends once parted 
single-hearted,” they leap and 

ow and slumber together, “‘like spirits 

that love but live no more.” _ 

*.° This fable has been exquisitely 
turned into Poetry by Percy B. Shelley 
(Arethusa, 1820). 

Arothu’se (4 syl.), a Syracusian 
fountain, especially noted because the 

Thioe’ritos was born on its banks. 
Efiton alludes to it in his Lyc’idas, v. 85. 


Argali’a, brother of Angel’ica, in 
Ariost >’ Orlando Farioso (1516). 
Argan, the malade wmaginaire and 


father of ique. He is introduced tax- 
ing his a *s bills, under the con- 
viction he cannot afford to be sick 


at the prices charged, but then he notices 
that ne has already reduced his bills 
during the current month, and is not so 
well. He first hits upon the plan of 
marryin ique to a you octor, 
bat to this ead objects. i brother 
suggests that Argan himeelf shou 

his own doster, and when the invalid 
replies Le hag not studied either diseases, 
drugs, or Latin, the objection is over- 
ruled by investing the ‘‘malade"’ in a 
doctur’s cap and robe. The piece con- 
eludes with the ceremonial in macaronic 


Latin. 

*,¢* When Argan asks his doctor how 
many graius of salt he ought to eat with 
an egg, the doctor answers, ‘‘ Six, huit, 
dix, etc., par les nombres pairs, comme 
dans les medicaments par les nombres 
impairs.”—Molicre, Le Malade [mayinuire, 
ii. 9 (1673), 

Argan’te (3 syi.), a giantess called 
“the very monster and méracie of lust.” 
She and her twin-brother Ollyphant or 
Oliphant were the children of Typha’us 
and Earth. Arganté used to carry off 
young men as her captives, and seized 
‘the Squire of Dames” aa one of her 
victims. The equire, who was in fact 
Britomart (the heroine of chastity), was 
delivered by sir Sat’yrane (3 sy/.).— 
Spenser, Fuéry Queen, iii. 7 (1590). 


Argante’ (2 syl.), father of Octave (2 
sy/.) and Zerbinette (3 syl.). He pro- 
mises to give his daughter Zerbinette to 
Leandre (2 syl.), the son of his triend 
Geéronte (2 sy/.); but during his absence 
abroad the young people fall in love 
unknown to their respective fathers. 
Both fathers storm, and threaten to break 
eff the engagement, but are delighted 
beyond measure when they discover that 


5 


a 


ARGILLAN. 


the choice of the young people has unm 
Knowingly coincided with their own.— 
Moliere, Les Fuourberies de Scapin (1671). 

(Thomas Otway has adapted this play 
to the English stage, and called it The 
Cheats of Scapin. ‘‘ Argante” he calls 
Thrifty ; *Geronte” is Gripe; “ Zerbi- 
nette” he calls Lucia; and ‘“ Leandre” 
he Anglicises into Leander.) 


Argan’tes (3 sy/.), a Circassian of 
high rank and undoubted courage, but 
fierce and a great detester of the Naza- 
renes. Argantés and Solvyman were un- 
doubtedly the bravest heroes of the 
infidel host. Argantés was slain by 
Rinaldo, and Solyman by Tancred.— 
Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered (1575). 

a ecg fe te edema 

Ar’genis, a political romance by 
Barclay (1621). pe 


Ar’genk (The halls of). Here are 

rtrayed all the various creatures that 
inhabited this earth before the creation of 
Adam.—W. Beckford, Vuthek (1784). 


Ar’gentile (3 sy!.), daughter of king 
Adelbright, and ward of Edel. Curan, a 
Danish prince, in order to woo her, became 
a drudge in her house, but being obliged 
to quit her service, became a shepherd. 
fdel,°the guardian, forcing his suit on 
Argencile, compelled her to flight, and 
she became a neatherd’s maid. In this 
capacity Curan wooed and won _ her. 
Edel was forced to restore the possessions 
of his ward, and Curan became king of 
Northumberland. As for Edel, he was 
put to death.—William Warner, Albion's 
England (1586). 


Ar’gentin (Le sicur d), one of the. 
officers of the duke of Burgundy.—Sir 
we Scott, Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward 

-). 


Arge’o, baron of Servia and husband 
of Gabrina. (See Dictionary of Phrase 
and Fuble.)—Ariosto, Orlando Furtoso 
(1516). 


Arges’tes (3 sy/.), the west wind. 
Winged Argestes, faire Aurora's sonne, 
Licensed that day to louve Lis dungeon, 
Meekly attend 
Wm. Browne, Britunnia’s Pasturals, i. & (1613). 
Arges'tes (3 syl.), the north-east wind ; 
Ce'cias, the north-west ; Bo'reas, the ful! 
north. 
Boreas and Ceecias and Aryestes loud 
. Pend the woods, and seas upturn. 
Milton, Paradtee Loe, x. G99, etc. (1685). 
Argillan, a haughty, turbulent 
knight, born on the banks of the Trot 
BR 








ARGON AND RURO. 


He induced the Latians to revoll, was 


arrested, made his cacape, but was ulti- 
mately slain in battle by Solyman.— 
Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered, vii, ix. 


(1575). 


Argon and Ruro, the two sone of 
Annin king of Inis-thona, a6 tdland of 
Scudimavria. Cormalo, @ bowing 
chief, came to the islund, and gaked for 
the honour of a tournmment, Argon 
granted the request, and overthrew him, 
aod this so vexed Cormalo that during a 
loons be shot both the brothers with is 
bow. Their dog Runo, rusning to the 
hall, howled so as to attract affeniien, aid 
Annin, following the hound, found hi 
two sons both dead. On his returo he 
discovered that Cormalo — run off with 
his daughter. Oscar, son of Ossian, slew 
Cormalo in fight, and restored the daugh- 
ter to her father.—Osnan (“The War of 
Inis-thona"), 

Arg’uri (in Rossian Armenia), tra- 
ditionally where Noah first planted the 
vine, (Argh urn, “be planted the yine,”) 

Ar’gzus, the torf-writer, was Irvin 
Willesa, who died in 1871. 

Argyle’ (Mac Callum More, duke of), 
in the reign of George I.—sir W. Scott, 
Nob Koy (1818). 


Ln eee ae 


Sa 





Atideus [A.ree.deur), 0 herald im 


Delivered (LS75). on 

A'riol, in The Tempest, an 

able (o arsuime an acne 
eos owes euslaved 


rr 


af 


i 


y- 
duke 
act free. 

dod Vike Ariel in the claren ping free, 
For li frei gramme wed wig, 
Lougiellow, The Gulden Milestone 
A'riel, the sylph in Pope's Kape of the 
Tock. ‘The impersonation of “fine life" 
in the abstract, the nice adjuster af hearts 
and necklaces, When disobedient be is 
punished by being kept hovering over 
the fumes of the chocolate, or is trans 





A RIOCH. 


amides bellum ese circa acialis com 
quale vuln 





Ming, Fat. Bist. vii. % 

Arioch (‘‘a fierce lion”), one of the 
fallen angels overthrown by Abdiel.— 
Milton, Paradise Lost, vi. 871 (16065). 


Ariodan’tes (5 syl.), the beloved of 
Geneu’ra, a tch princess. (ieneura 
ing accused of incontinence, Ariodantés 
forth her champion, vindicated ber 
mnocen and married her.—<Ariosto, 
Ortandc Furioso (1516). 


Ari’on. William Falconer, author of 
The Shi; speaks of himself under 
this nom de plume (canto i1i.). He was 
sent to sea when a lad, and says lic was 
eager to investigate the ‘‘antiquitics of 

ign states.” He was junior officer in 
the Britannia, which was wrecked ayainst 
the projecting verge of cape Colonna, the 
most southern point of Attica, and was 
the only officer who survived. 

Thy woes, Arion, and thy simple tale 

Oa all the hearts shal} triumph and prerall. 

Campbell, Pleasures of Hope, \i, (1720). 

Arion, a Greek musician, who, to avoid 
being murdered for his wealth, threw 
himself into the sea, and was carricd to 
Te’naros on the back of a dolphin. 


Arvun, the wonderful horse, which [ler- 
eults gave to Adrastos, It had the gift 
of human speech, and the feet on the night 
eide were the feet of a man. 

(One of the masques in sir W, Scott's 
Kenilworth is called ‘‘ Arion.”) 


Ario’sto of the North, sir Walter 
Scott (1771-1832). 
And, like the Ariorto of the North, 
ladyw-iove 


and war, romance aod knigh!!y worth. 
Byron, Childe Haro‘, iv. 4. 


Aristeo’us, protector of vines and 
olives, huntsmen and herdsmen. Ile in- 
structed man also in the management of 
bees, taught him by his mother Cyréné. 

in such a palace Aristseus found 

Cyrené, when he bore the plaintive tala 

Of bis lost bees to her maternal ear. 
Cowper, Tae los Palace of Anne qf |fuiiia. 


Aristar’chus, any critic. Aristar- 
chus of Samcthrace was the greatest critic 
of antiquity. His labours were chictly 
directed tc the Jad and Odyssey of Hummer, 
He divided them into twenty-four books 
each, marked every doubtfu) Line witli an 
obelus, and every one he cotisidered 
especially beautiful with an asterisk. 
(Fi. p.c. 156; died aged 72.) 

The whole region of bellec lettre: fell under aiy |napec- 
Gan ... Thare, airs, like another: Aristarch 








i dent oof | 


ARISTOMENES. 


cr ~- damosiion at plewure.—unuel Foote, The 
F, 

“How, friend." replied the archbishop, “has it [eke 
Aordily) met whih any Artetarchas (sewers eritic|{"— 
Lesage, Gi! Mhas, vil. 4 \L715). 

Ariste (2 syi.), brother of Chrvaale 
(2 syi.), not a savant, but a practical 
tradesman. He sympathizes with Hen- 
riette, his womanly niece, against his 
sister-in-law Philaminte (3 sy) and her 
daughter Armande (2 syl.), who are 
femmes savantes.—Molitre, ias Femmes 
Savanfes (1672). 


Ariste'as, a poet who continued to 
appear and disappear alternately for above 
400 years, and who visited all the mythi- 
cal nations of the earth, When not in 
the human form, he took the form of a 
stag.—trreek Leyend. 


Aristi'des (The Aritisk), Andrew 
Marvell, an influential member of the 
House of Commons in the reign of Charles 
I]. He refused every offer of promotion, 
and a direct bribe tendered to him by the 
lord treasurer, Dying in great poverty, 
he was buried, like Anstidés, at the public 
expense (1U20-1678). 





Aristip’pos, a Greek philosopher of 
Cyre'né, who studied under Soc'rates, and 
set up a philosophic schuol of his own, 
called ** he'donism " («4orn, “* pleasure"). 

*.* C. M. Wieland has an histona 
novel in German, called Aristippus, in 
which he sets forth the philosphical 
dogmas of this Cyrenian (1763-1413). 

An axiom of Aristippos was Ommnas 
Aristipipan deécuit colur, ef status, et res 
(Horace, Lpist. i, 17, 23); and his great 
precept was Wii res, non me rebus sul- 
jumjére (Horace, Epist. i. 1, 18). 

Dar. a eert of Ariatip pes, ood con eqenlly accommo 
mye te company mil ellie, to alvence mud frugelite 
—Lemge, tii! Miwa, ¥. LE ye 1B). 

Aristobu'lus, called by Drayton 
Aristub‘ulus (#iow. xvi. 10), and said to 
be thie first that brought to England the 
“clad tidings of salvation.” He was 
murdered by the Britons, 

The first that ever told Christ crucified to os, 
Hy Pail and Peter gent, just dristotolos . , 
By the Lritons niiitdered was, 
Drayton, Polpolilou, rule, (Leza). 

Aristom’enes (5 s,/.), . young Mes- 
genian of the roval line, the “Cid” of 
ancient Messe'nia. (m one occasion he 
entered Sparta by might to suspend a 
shield from the temple of L'allas, {im 
the shichl were insenbed these words : 
“ Aristomencs from the Spacing spoile 
dedicates this to the goddess.” 

*.* A similar tale is told of Fernando 





ARISTOPHANES, 


Perec del Pulgar, when under 
Ferdinand of Uastile at the of 
trana'da. With fifteen oo 
entered Granada, then in the power of the 
Moors, ond nailed to the door of the 
prince ipal meeque with his dagpmr a talillet 
inscribed “Ave Mana!” then wnll oped 
hack, before the cuanie recovered from 
their amazement.—Washingtos Irving, 


Cumqueat of Granada, O1, 





Aristoph'anes (5 Creek 


nyt), 
who wrote fifty-four comedias, deve of 











= = picesn 
wie q 
Armande 
rietto a “th 
Clitandre, but per ore him oo 
tonicly, while Henriette loves him with 
wocastly afection. Clitandre ane 


tonal ntl, soevby te 


woich have survived to the present day Les Femenes Savantes (1672), 

(nc. 444-380). He is called “The Prince ‘da, » sorceress, who peduces 
of Ancient Comedy,” and Menader | Rinaldo and ofiercrusnlers from the 
‘The Prince of New Comedy” (i. | of Jerusalem, TWinaldo ic oonducted by her 
a42-201). to her splendid palace, where he hie 


The Englich or Afolern Aristophanes, 


Samuel Foote (1722-1777). 
The French Aristophen®s, a, Baptiste 


Poquelin de Moliere (1622-1678), 


Aristotle. The mistress of this 
philosopher was Hepyllis; of Plato, 
Archionassa: and of Epicurne, Leontium. 

Aroatolle of China, Tehuhe, who died 
Ab. 1200, called “The Prince of Science.” 

Aristotle of Caretianity, Thos. Aqui'nas, 
who tried to reduce the 
to svilomiate formule (1224-274), 

Aristotle of the Ninetocnti 


Georve Cuvier. the naturalist (1709-1: 


but she follows him, and not 
| to allure him back again, sete ore hee 


dectrines of faith | 


i meu’ my; | 





palace, rushea into the midet of the fight, 
arid i8 slain, 
[Ful bao | ermal) boned 

W ithdrew Wteel? frm lila, that len Lewd bewel 

A = Mage re . ent ne er tlle weed 

Wieder che al al Armikle fay ar 

Like | — al thie Loght tone lef on Jia © her 

Byron, fen Jaan. L TL 
When the yonng queen of Frederick 

William of Prossia rede about in nulitary 
eostume to incite the Priasiana to arms 











James I., introduced in The Fortunes of 
Kigel, by sir Walter Scott (1822). 


Arnaut, an Albanian mountaineer. 

The word means ‘“‘a brave man.” 
Stained with the best of Arnaut blood. 
Byron, The Giacur, 336. 

Arnheim (2 syé.). The baron Her- 
man com Arnheim, Anne of Geierstein’'s 

er. 

Sdilla of Arnheim, Anne's mother. 

The baroness of Arnheim, Anne of Geier- 
stein.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of Geierstein 
(time, Edward IV.). 

Arno, the river of Florence, the birth- 
place of both Danté and Boccaccio. 

At inst the Muses rose . . . amd scattered . . . as they 


few 
Their ticoming wreaths from fair Vaicluse’: bowers 


(Petrarch 
Te Arno's myrtie harder, 
Akeniide, Pleasures of imagination, fi, 
Ar’nold, the deformed son of Bertha, 
who hates him for his ugliness. Wea 
of life, he is about to make away wi 
himself, when a stranger accosts him, and 
romises to transform him into any sha 
e likes best. He chooses that of Achilles, 
and then goes to Rome, where he joins 
the besieging army of Bourbon. During 
the siege, Arnold enters St. Peter's of 
Rome just in time to rescue Olimpia, but 
the proud beauty, to prevent being taken 
captive by him, flings herself from 
the high altar on the pavement, and is 
taken up apparently lifeless. As the 
drama was never completed, the sequel 
is not known.—Byron, Zhe Deformed 
Transformed, 


Ar’nold, the torch-bearer at Rotherwood. 
—Sir W. Scott, /vanhoe (time, Richard 1.). 


Ar'ndld of Benthuysen, disguised as a 
gar, and called ‘‘ Ginks.”—Beaumont 
Fletcher, The Begyar’s Bush (1622). 


Arnoldo, son of Melchtal, patriot of 
the forest cantons of Switzerland. He 
was in love with Mathilde (3 syl.), sister 
of Gessler, the Austrian governor of the 
district. When the tyranny of Gessler 
drove the Swiss into rebellion, Arnoldo 
joined the insurgents, but after the death 
of Gessicr he married Mathilde, whose 
life he had saved when it was imperilled* 
by an avalanche.— Rossini, Guylielino Tell 
(1829). 


Arnd'do, a gentleman contracted to 
Zeno'cia, a chaste lady, dishoneourably 

rsued by the governor, count Clodio.— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe Custum of 
the Country (1647). 





oc -_<= ‘(. er! 


ARROW SHOT A MILE. 


Ar’nolphe (2 sy/.), a man of wealth, 
who has a crotchet about the proper traine 
ing of girls to make good wives, and tries 
his scheme on Agnes, whum he adopts 
from a peasant’s hut, and whom he in- 
tends in time to make his wife. She is 
brought up, from the age of four years, 
in a country convent, where differenca 
of sex and the conventions of society are 
wholly ignored ; but when removed from 
the convent Agnes treats men like school- 
girls, nods to them familiarly, kisses 
them, and plays with them. Being told 
by her guardian that married women have 
more freedom than maidens, she asks him 
to marry her; however, a young man 
named Horace falls in love with her, and 
makes her his wife, 30 Armolphe after all 
profits nothing by his pains.—Molitre, 
L’école des Femmes (1662). 


Dans un petit couvent loin de toute pratique 

Je le fis élever selon ma politique 

Cest-a-dire, ordonnant quels suins on emploferoit 
Pour le rendre idiote autant qu'il se pourrolt, Lh 





Ar'not (Andrew), one of the yeomen 
of the Balafré [Ludovic Lesly].—Sir W. 
Scott, Quentin Durward (time, Edward 

V.). 


Aron’'teus (4 sy/.), an Asiatic king, 
who joined the Eyyptian armament 
against the crusaders.—Tasso, Jerusalem 
Delivered (1575). 


Aroun'dight, the sword of sir Lan- 
celot of the Lake. 


a’sia, the betrothed of Mone’sés, 
a Greek, but made by constraint the bride 
of Ba)j’avet sultan of Turkey. Bajazet 
commanded Moncsés to be bow-strung in 
the presence of Arpasia, to fnghten her 
into subjection, but she died at the sight. 
—N. Rowe, Zameriane (1702). 


Ar’rant Knave (An). a corruption 
of the Anglo-Saxon nearo-cndpa (‘ great 
knave’’). Similarly, neuro-breyd (“ great 
fear") ; nearv-yrdp (‘‘great grip”); near 
wrence (‘‘ great deceit”), ete. 


Ar’rot, the weasel in the beast-epic of 
Reynard the Fox (1498). 


Arrow Festival (The), instituted 
by Zoroaster to commemorate the flight 
of the arrow shot from the top of the 
Peak of Demavend, in Persia, with such 
miraculous prowcss as to reach the banks 
of the Oxus, causing the whole intervening 
country to be ceded to Persia. 


Arrow shot a Mile. Robin Hood 








ARS ACES, 





—_—— ~~ 


and Little John “ frequently shofan arrow 
a mensured mile" (1760 yards), 


Trewin eile oe thet in one of Roi 
ene taaiels 


limite wilemlesd Dry Lites Lin, 


rhitns Alleey ‘with hee ath vd Richens Eieey arent ta 

| Daeg ‘al Clow imp ye) cel hem hot au arrow, 
wh rai] (oll reavt Car te “in Whi (yh la ae 
OP by tie abit wher mal) ATS ee both 


fal) fre tka a mene wolle (ro Ue abitey.— Charl 
tom Nintery of Whithy, Poe, 14a. 

Ar’saces (4 myi.), the ag ys peg 
fame of the Persian Sines recess, 
their great monarch, It wha ecieall 
aided to some distinctive Dame OF 
lation, as the Noman emperare added the 
name of (“wsar to their own. | 

Clue mercorke home honorees Pet) Gilera of, 
Cis lade rege aoe Atl ne 
Justio, Mlteuriore Philippdoe, wih 

Arse'tes (5 wyl.), the aged eunuch 
who brought wp t lorinda, and attendes: on 
her,—Tseso, Jerusalem Delivered (L000). 


Ar’taban, the French type of nobi- 


liary pride. 


Ar’tamenes (5 ay 
Cyrus, a “long-winded romance,” by 
Malle, Scuden (1007-1741). 


Artaxam'inous, king of Utopia, 
married to (srniskinisse, whom he wishes 
to divorce for Distaffi'na,. Hut Distatlioa 
is betrothed to general Bombastés, and 
when the general finds that his ‘' fund 
o” prefers “half a crown” to himeelf, 
be hates all the world. and challences the 


!.) or De Grand 








bk. ii. of be, 


one , 
opey 
(canto 4). e then f 
of Kad"igund queen of 
wae reloaded by Britemart femsiee 

6), who killed Radi, 

and 
deliverance of rn 
Grantorto (rebellion), 
fennte 17), 

N.1.—This rebellion was that ealled the 
earl of Desmond's, in 1580. Before bk. iv. 
6, Artegal is epelt Arthegal, but never 
afterwards. 

*.* © Sir Artecal” is meant for lord Gray 
of Wilton, Spenser's friend. He waa gent 
in 1580 into Treland as lord-lieutenant, 

| and the poet was his secretary, The 








ARTFUL DODGER. 





Een rhs 
Lord Brooke. Am /equiry apen Forme, ete. (1554-1038). 


Artful Dodger, the sobriquet of John 
Dawkina, a young thief, up to every sort 
of dodge, and a most marvellous adept in 
villainy.—Dickens, Oliver Twist (1837). 


allo, a mythical British king, 
brother of Gorbonian, his predecessor on 
the throne, and son of Mor'vidus, the 
tyrant who was swallowed by a sea- 
monster. Arthgallo was deposed, and 
his brother El’idure was advanced to the 
throne instead.—Geoffrey, British History, 
fii. 17 (1142). 


Arthur (King), parentage of. His 
father was Uther the pendragon, and his 
mother Ygerné (3 syl.), widow of Gorlois 
duke of Cornwall. But Ygerné had been 
a widow only three hours, and knew not 
that the duke wa nd (pt i, 2), and 
her marriage wil e pendragon was 
not consummated till thirteen days after- 
wards, When the boy waa boro Merlin 
took him, and he was brought up as the 
foster-son of sir Ector (Tennyson says “sir 
Anton“), till Merlin thought proper to 
annvunce him as the lawful successor of 
Uther, and had him crowned. Uther lived 
two vears after his marriage with Yerné. 
—Sir'T. Malory, Afistory of Prine Arthur, 
i. 2, 6 (1470). 
Wherefore Merlin took the child 

And gave bim fo ole Anton, on old knight 

And ancient friend of Uther; and hla wife | 

Kure the young prince, and reared him with ber own. 

Tennyson, Coming af A rf hiar, 

Cuminy of Arthur, Lend'ogran, king of 
Cam‘eliand (3 sy/.), appealed to Arthur to 
assist Lim in clearing his kingdom of 
rubbers and wild beasta. This beag 
done, Arthur sent three of bis knihts 
tu Leodovran, to beg the hand of his 
daughter Guenever in marrage. To this 
Levdogran, after some little hesitation, 
avreed, and sir Lancelot was sont to escort 
the iady to Arthur's court. 

Arthur not dead, According to tra- 
dition Arthur is not dead, Lut rests in 
Glastonbury, “till be shall come again 
full twice aa fair, to rule over his people.” 
(See BAKBAROSSA.) 


Areordimg to tradition, Arthur never died. but wo 
eqiverted inte a raven by enchantment, aud will, in the 
fine w of time, appear again io ble original saline, to 
refer hi thre aod erepire For this reason there is 
at . ro Killed lu England. —Corvantes, ion Quitete, 

i Byles 


Arthur's Twelve Sattles (or victones 
orer the Saxons). 1. The battle of the 
river Glem (i.e. the glen of Northuinber- 
land), 2 to 5. The four battles of the 








ARTHUR. 
Duglas (which falls into the estuary o 
the Ribble). 6. The battle of Bassa, said 
to be Bashall Brook, which joins the 
Ribble near Clithero. 7. The battle of 
Celidon, said to be Tweeddale. 8. The 
battle of Castle Gwenion (i.e, Caer Wen, 
in Wedale, wees! > 9. The battle of 
Caerleon, i.¢, Carlisle ; which Tennyson 
makes to be Caerleon-upon-Usk. 10. The 
battle of Trath Treroit, in Anglesey, some 
say the Solway Frith. 11. The battle of 
Agned Cathregonion (ie. Edinburgh). 
127. The battle of Badon Hill (i.e. the 
Hill of Bath, now Bannerdown). 
Then bravely chanted thay 

The several twelve pitched fielda be [Arthur] with oe 

fasona fought 

MM, Drayton, Polpoliion, ty. (112). 

Arthur, one of the Nine Worthies, Three 
were Gentiles: Hector, Alexander, ond 
Julius Cesar; three were Jews: Joshua, 
David, and Judas Maccabreus; three were 
Christians: Arthur, Charlemagne, and 
Godfrey of Bouillon. 

Arthur's Foster-Father and Mother, sir 
Ector and hia lady. Their son, sir Key 
(his foater-brother), was his seneschal or 
ateward.—Sir T. Malory, History of Prince 
Arthur, 1. 3, B (1470). 

N.1.—Tennysen makes sir Anton the 
foster-father of Arthur, 

Arthur's Butler, air Lucas ot Lacan, son 
of duke Corneus ; but sir Gnflet, son of 
Cardol, assisted sir Key and sir Lucas ‘in 
the rule of the service."—Aistory of 
Prince Arthur, 1. 8 (1470), 

Arthur's Sisters Neeser Mor- 

use or Margawse (wife of king Lot); 

wluin (wife of king Nentrea of Carlot) ; 
anil Morgan le Fay, the “yreat clark of 
Nivromancy,” who wedded king Vrience, 
of the land of Coré, father of Ewayns le 
Blanchemayne. Only the last had the 
same mother (Yuernaine or Yyerne) as the 
king.—Sir 'T. Malory, Afistury of J’rince 
alrtéur, i. 2. 

Arthur's Seas—tU rien, Llew, and Arawn. 
Rorre was his son by Lyonors, daughter 
of the earl Sanam.—/istory of Prince 
Arthur, i. 15, Mordred was his aon hy 
Elain, wife of king Nentres of Carlot. 
In some of the romances collated by sir 
T. Malory he is enlled the son of Mar- 
gause and Arthur; Marenause being called 
the wife of king Lot, and sister of Arthur. 
This incest 15 said to have been the cause 
of Mordred’s batred of Arthur.—Pt. 1. 
17, 56, ete, 

Arthur's Drintiny-J/orn. No one could 
drink from thia horn who waa either 
unchaste or unfaithful.—Lai du Cora and 
Morte d'Artiur, (See Ciastiry.) 


7 











ARTS AND GENIUS. 





&7 


ED 


ARYAN LANGUAGES, 





W. Scott's novel called Redgauntlet | 


(time, George ITI.). 

Arts (The fine) and Genius, Sir 
Walter Scott was wholly ignorant of 
pictures, and quite indifferent to music. 
Wordsworth cared nothing for paintings, 
sod music gave him positive discomfort. 
Sir Robert Peel detested music. Byron 
sod Taseo cared nothing for architecture, 
and Byron had no earfor music. Mde. de 
Sta#] could notappreciate scenery. Pope 
and Dr, Johnson, like Scott and Byron, 


had no ear for music, and could scarcely | 
discern one tune from another; cd a | 


premeared a street organ to Ilandel's 
exmal, 


Arturo (lord Arthur Talbot), a 
eavalierafianced to Flvi'ra“' the puritan,” 
daughter of lord Walton. On the day 

inted for the wedding, Arturo has to 
aid Enrichetta (/fenrictta, widow of 
Cheries J.) in her escape, and Elvira, 
supposing he is eloping with a rival, 
temporarily loses her reason. On his 
return, Artoro explains the circumstances, 
and they vow never niore to part. At 
this juncture Arturo is arrested for treason, 
and Jed away to execution; but a herald 
anodunces the defeat of the Stuarts, and 
free pardon of all political offenders, 
whereupon Arturo is released, and marries 
“the fair puritan.”—lLellinis opera, J 
Puritans (1834). 


Ar'turo[Bvcxtaw]. So Frank Hayston 
is called in Donizetti's opera of Lucia di 
Lammermoor (1835). (See Hayvstox.) 


Arundel, the stecd of sir Bevis of 
Southampteno, given him by his wife 
Josian, daughter of the king of Armenia. 
—Drayton, Pulyolbion, i, (1612). 


Arundel Castle, called Magounce 
(2 ayi.). 
fea | img ble) ure to 6 cetle that wae oiled Ma- 
Yio) ow i called Arundell, i Routheen —eir Ff, 
7. Higery of Prices Artaur, IL 116 (ldo), 


Ar'valan, the wicked son of Keha'ma, | 


slain by Ladur'lad for attempting to 
@ishonour his daughter Kail'yal (2 sy/.). 
Afuer this, his spirit became the relent- 
less persecutor of the holy maiden, but 
holiness and chastity triumphed over ain 
and just. Thos when Kailyal was taken 
to the lower of bliss in paradise, Arvalan 
Sorreed the dragon-car of the witch 
Lor'rumite (4 syl.) to carry her off ; but 
when the dragons came in sight of the 
boly place they were nnalile to mou t, 
and went perpetually downwards, ull 
Arvalan was dropped into an ice-nft of 





| 


pe tual snow. When he presented 
imself before her in the temple of Jaga- 
naut, she set fire to the pagoda, And 
when he caught the maiden waiting for 
her father, who waa gone to release the 
mgt from the submerged city of 
aly, Baly himself came to her rescue, 
“Help, belp, Rehama! help!“ be erie 
Bt tarried net. to alka 
He stumapt sad eft the earth. It opened wida, 
And gave bim r A 
Down like ih Siemmat sa cones 
Bemok... to pinkbment deserved and endless wos, 
Soothes, Cwree af Kehoma, evil. 12 (1800), 
Arvi'da (Prince), a noble friend of 
Gustavus Vasa. Hoth Arvida and Gus- 
tavus are in love with Christi'na, daughter 
6f Christian Il. king of Scandinavia, 
Christian employa the prince to entrap 
Gustavus, but when he approaches him 
the better instincts of old friendship and 
the nobleness of Gustavus prevail, so that 
Arvida not only refuses to betray his 
friend, but even abandons to him all 
further rivalry in the love of Christina.— 
H. Brooke, (usturus Vasa (1730). 


Arvir’agus, the hnsband of Do'rigen, 
Aurclius tried to win her love, but Dongen 
made answer that she would never listen 
to hia suit till the rocks that beset the 
coast were removed, “‘and there nis no 
atone y-seen.” Hv the aid of mazic, 
Aureling caused all the rocks of the const 
to disappear, and Dorigen’s husland 
insisted that she should keep her word, 
When Aurelius aaw how sad she was, and 
was told that she had some in obedience 
to her husband's wishes, he said he would 
rather die than injure ao true ao wife and 
neble a ventleman.—Chaneer, Ceaterbury 
Jules (** The Franklin's Tole,” 1384). 

(This is substantinlly the same ms 
Boceaccio’s tale of Jianora and Gilberto, 
day x. 4. See Diaxona.) 

Arcir'wya, younger son of Cym'beline 
(3 sy/.) king of Dritain, and brother of 
Guide'riua. ‘The two in early childhood 
were kidnapped by Tbela'riug, out of re- 
rence for being unjustly banished, and were 


| brought up by him inacave. When they 
| were prown to wanhood, [elarius, having 


reacued the king from the Romans, waa 
restured to fuwour, He then introduced 
the two young men to Cymbeline, and 
told their story, won which the king was 
rejoiced te tiowl that his twe sone whim 
he theueht dead were both lving.— 
Shakespeare, Cynuleline (160%). 

Aryan Languages ( Z/e)— 
1. Sanskrit, whence Hindustanee. 


2. £ead, = l'ersian, 





\s YOU LIKE Tr. 

8. Greek viaaties Romatii 

4. Latir »  ltalian, French, § i 
Portuguese, W ql 
( Romance). 

6. Keitic, ,, Welsh, Trish, Gnaelie. 

6. ( thic, ,, Teatonic, English, Sean- 
dinavian, 

7. Wavonic,,, European Russian, and 
Austriag, 


As You Like It, comedy by Shake 
ipeare. Oneof the Freneh dukes, being 
driven from his dukedom bp his brother, 
went with certain followers to the toreat 
of Arden, where they lived « free and easy 
life, chiefly occupied in thé thase, The 
deposed duke had one danghter, named 
Yowulind, whom the usurper kept at 
‘court om the compamon of his own 
daurhter Celia, and the two Gousiia were 
very fond of each other. ABo wrestling 
match Kosalind fell in love with Orlanda, 
who threw his antagonist, @ giant and 
professional athlete, The usurping dube 
(Frederick) now banished her from the 
court, but her cousin Celia resolved to go 
to Arden with her; a0 Kosalind in boy's 
clothes (under the name of Ganimed), and 
Celia a# a rustic maiden (under the name 
of Alie’na‘, started to find the deposed 
duke. Orland being driven from homa 
by his élder brother, alan went to the 
forest of Ardon, and wns bak “Ty une ler the 


Pe, a et — ie 





| and his steed Arundel, 
| prt ey beside his horse, 


=—-+-—— 


ASGIUS TRANSLATION. 


under bis arm, 
Sir Bevis afterwards made his 


of sir mips, te ia on Sg city nf Sonik 

. oe pr bey: kes Ee 
a cndll have maaan en ot eee 

pp mr are ee risa 








Thus (rattated * re. (1588 4) 


Kach Auapert of 
For quatte beth fyenple te ond Easton Comte, 
poet, 


Ascrm’an Bage, of Ascomm 
Besiod, who catees ae Ascra, in Poso'tin, 
Virgil cally bin “The Old Ascrewm” 

femioateet e 
eet, vl TH 

a aebte (3 Bayt), 3 wy + Tote gee 

4 
Fletcher eanto vil, ). Oe had 
Idol'atros (ubolatry), Ph aan (3 out. sy. j 
(nite. ora rr) » Ai erect’ ua, ond iy pocriay : 
all fully de acribed by the puet. (Greek, 
ascheia, * impiety.) 

Asel'ges (3 sy!.), Lasciviousness per- 
sonified, One of the four sons of Anag’= 
nua (ichtstity), his three brothers being 
Meechus (adultery), Pornei'us (fornication), 


and Acath’arns. Seeing his brother Por- 


mre oe DD Powe ia anne a Th. ath. he 








ASHFIELD. 


Susptody, i. 3 (1709). 

Ash’field (Farmer), a truly John 
Ball farmer, tender-hearted, noble-minded 
Lut homely, generous but hot-tempered. 
He loves his daughter Susan with the 
love of a woman. His favourite ex- 

ion is ‘‘ Behave pratty,” and he 
imself always tries to do so. His 
daughter Susan marries Robert Handy, 
the son of sir Abel Handy. 

Dame Ashfield, the farmer's wife, whose 
bis nore is a neighbouring farmer named 
Grundy. What Mrs. Grundy will say, 
er what Mrs. Grundy will think or do, is 
dame Ashfield’s decalogue and fospel too. 

Susan Ashfeld, daughter of farmer and 
dame Ashfield.—Thom. Morton, Spced 
the Plowyh (1764-1838). 

Asb’ford (/saac), “a wise, 
man, contented to be poor.”—Crabbe, 
Parish Register (1807). 

Ash’taroth, a general name for all 
Syrian goddesses. ee ASTORETH.) 


had geveral names 
Ot Paxhen cet Ashtaruth : those male, 


These feminine. 
Milton, Paradise Lost, 1. 422 (16685). 
Ash'ton (Sir William), the lord 


keeper of Scotland, and father of Lucy 
Ashton. 

Lady Eleanor Ashton, wife of sir Wil- 
liam. 

Culunel Sholto Dowylas Ashton, eldest 
son of sir William. 

Lucy Ashton, daughter of sir William, 
betrothed to Eagar (the master of Ravens- 
wood); but being compelled to marry 
Frank Hayston (laird of Bucklaw), shetries 
bo murder him tn the bridal chamber, and 
becomes insane. Lucy dies, but the laird 
recovers.—Sir W. Scott, The Bride of 
Lammermoor (time, William IIT.). 

(This has been made the subject of an 
epera by Donizetti, called Lucia di Lum- 
tnerinucr, 1835.) 


Asia, the wife of that Pharaoh whu 
brought up Moses. She was the daugh- 
ter of Mozahem. Her husband tor- 
tured her for believing in Moses: but 
she was taken alive into Paradise.— 
Sale, Al Kordn, xx., note, and Ixvi., 
note 

Mabomet says, ‘* Among women four 
have been perfect: Asia, wife of Pha- 
raoh; Mary, daughter of Imran; Kha- 
dijah, the prophet’s first wife; and 
Fatima, his own daughter.” 


As’ir, the twelve chief gods of Scandi- 


59 ASPATIA. 
his grent-grandmother not marrying —Mrs. Contiivre, Phe 





navian mythology—Odin, Thor, Baldr, 


Niord, Frey Bragi eimdall, 
Vidar, Vali, Unur, and Forset.. 
Sometimes the goddesses—Fri 


Freyja, Idu’na, and are ran 
amongst the Asir also. aags 

As’madai (3 sy/.), the same as Asmo- 
deus (4 sy/.), the lustful and destroying 
angel, who robbed Sara of her seven hus. 
bands ( Zodié iii. 8). Milton makes him 
one of the rebellious angels overthrown 
by Unit] and Ra’/phat]. Hume says the 
word means ‘‘the destroyer.”— Paradise 
Lost, vi. 365 (1665). 


Asmode’us (4 syi.), the demon of 
vanity and dress, called in the Talmud 
‘king of the devils." As ‘‘dress” is 
one of the bitterest evils of modern life, 
it is termed ‘‘the Asmodeus of domestic 
peace,” a phrase employed to express any 
‘skeleton” in the house of a private 
faniily. 

In the book of Zobdit Asmodeus falls in 
love with Sara, daughter of Ray’uél, and 
causes the successive deaths of seven 
husbands each on his bridal night, but 
when Sara married Tobit, Asmodeus 
was driven into Eyypt by a charm made 
of the heart and liver of a fish burnt on 
perfumed asbes. 

(Milton throws the accent on the third 
syl., Tennyson on the second.) 


Better pleased 
Than Aamudéus with the fishy fame. 
Milton, Paradise Lost, iv. 168. 


Abaddon and Asin: déus caught at me 
Tennyson, St. Simeon Stylités. 

Asmnode’us, a ‘“‘diable bon-bomme,” 
with more gaiety than malice; not the 
least like Mephistophelés. He is the 
companion of Cle’ofas, whom he carries 
through the air, and shows him the inside 
of houses, where they see what is being 
done in private or secrecy without being 
seen. Although Asmodeus is not malig- 
nant, vet with all his wit, acuteness, and 
plaxfal malice, we never forget the fiend. 

e Sage, Le Diable Botteur. 

(Such was the popularity of the Diable 
Roiteur, that two young men fought a 
duel in a bookseller’s shop over the cnly 
remaining copy, an incident wortky to Le 
recorded by Aamodeus himself.) 

Miss Austen gives us juot auch a picture of domesitie life 
ae Asmodeus would present could he remove the roof of 
many an English home.—Ancyc. Brit Art. “‘ Roman e.” 

Aso'tus, Prodigality personified in 
The Purpl Island’ (1633), by Phineas 
Fletcher, fully described in canto viii. 
(Greek, asedus, ‘a protliyate.” ) 


Aspa'tia, a maiden the very ideal of 














ASPHALT Ic POOL, _ 

















ASSIDOS, 





“An intel but Fy 
rea marries 


for. ar " Arpt but abe | 
The pathos of 
most tout and ber 
‘ tracieal event which 
« to the drama.—Beaom ont and 
Phe Maus Jragedy (1610), 


Asphal tie Pool (The), the Dead 
Sou, a ¢ alle a from the asphalt or bitu’- 
The river Jonian 
“ pool," —Milton, | 


sient (ma ooo olf into ehita 


As [ scaciry in the language of Gowers, | 
" Tris «aid thet tha 
sustain themeelneam with 
It wos planted ro 
vraves, and beth Theo 
state that the plicit 
Liev cnnel Ma -+hfron roam through the mea- 
“ of Asp hedel, in order if poaible to 


tn of this flower, 


Rees was dedicated to 
vely enough crowns his 
with amaranth, wilh which 
lund their resplendent 
bie angel of fe with aspho- 


Senne 


1 = 

ourney to Jernssbem on the day of 

, The ase on which ale , aod 

which reproved the | 

with the voice of A man. tte wes 

Aax'i» queen of Sheba or Saba, who came 

fo visit walieod. (Sen AWiatata, pi. 40, 
Aci's Fare, Midas wax chosen to deci 

mt Ea The Pay mt ag 

« Phryg ve 


| one, or not ence 
dng o hole in the er te 
mouth into it, cried out, ** 
has ass'é ears.” He then filled up th é hole, 
and felt relieved. Tennyson makes the 
barber a woman, 
Bo llveller (han Ube “lane 

Thal whiepered "' Ames’ cars” (ste) cong the selge, 

* fil lid ase $s Prien, 
 As'sad, son of Camaral'zaman and 
Haiatal’nefous (i sy/.), and half-brother 
of Amgiad (son of Camaralzaman and 





ASSISE. 








ASTREE. 





Prester John. It not only protects the 
wearer from evil spirits, but forces every 
spirit to tell its business. 
Assise (in feudal times), toute chose 
Civere ‘on cour du roinume.—Clf de 
verer en cour du roiaume.—Clef des 


Pa eeiaiee, a female fiend, who has 
the power of mer storms.—Tasso, 
Jerusalem Delivered (1575). 


Astar’te (3 syl.), the Phoenician 
mon-goddess, the Astoreth of the 
Syrians. 


With thes 
fore Mecteneih, whom the Proenbeians called 
daeris, qeten of heaven, with crescent horn 
Milton, Parodize Lost, 1 €04 (1665) 


ae (2 ie), © an attendant on the 
mue'na.—Sir W. Scott, 
esa Ser Robert of Paris (time, Rufus), 


Astarte (2 or 3 syl.), beloved by Man- 
fred.— Byron, Manfred. 


sod Wh a countenance pet pale wi 
We bead bot o pliner of beer in rie pet othe 
Se ee ee tie Seine ee OE A ee ee of a 
SS en with sed. gaend, anid pasionless eyru, revenliny, 
i. and eterulty.—Professor Wilson, 
2 apt.) ps Lily Acwurte bis? Hush! who comes here? 
apt.) . . . Tie game Aptarte! ro (ill. 4). (ii, a} 
As’tery, a nymph in the train of 
Venus: the lightest of foot and moet 
active of all. One day the goddess, 
walking abroad with her nympbe, bade 
them yo gather flowers. Astery gathered 
mest of all; but Venus, in a fit of 
jealousy, turned her into a butterfly, and 
threw the tlowera into the wings. Since 
then all Luttertlies have borne wings of 
many gay colours. ——Spenser, HMuiopotinos 
or the Butterfly’s Fate (1590). 


As'tolat, Guildford, in Surrey. 
Astol'p ho, the English cousin of 


Orlando ; Nis father was Otho, He was 
& great boaster, hut was penerous, cour- 
tenus, gay, and singularly hands ome. 
Astel pho was carried to Alei/na's isle on the 
back of a whale: and when Alcina tired 
of Sim, she changed him into « myrtle 
tree, but Melissa disenchanted him. 
Astelpho descended into the infernal 
terione; he also went to the moon, to 
eure ()rlande of his madness by bringing 
back hie Inst wita in a phial.—Arivsto, 

Cried Furieo (1416). 
Astiulpho's fforn, This horn waa the 
rot Pore Logistiia. Whatever man or 
it, wae wcized with instant 


panic, and became an easy r captive — 
Anosto, Oriando Furioso, viii. 
Astolpho's Buok, The same fairy 
gave tim a book, which would direct 
im aright in all his journeyings, 
give him any other information he 
quired.—Ariosto, Orlando Furios«, vit, 


As'ton (Sir Jacob), a cavalier during 
the Commonwealth ; one of the partisans 
of the late king.—Sir W. Scott, Woud. 
stock (period, Commonwealth). 


As’ton (Enrico), So Henry Ashton 
is called in Donizetti's opera of Lucia di 
Lammermoor (1835). (See Aswroy.) 


As'torax, king of Paphos and 
brother of the sieineuen Calis,— Beau mont 
a) The Mad Lover (before 
1618). 


As'toreth, the dess-moon of 
Syrian mythology; ca led by Jeremiah, 


‘“The Queen of Heaven,” and by the 
Pheenicians, “ Astar’té.” (See AsuTa- 
ROTH, ) 


With these [the host af Arapen| in troop 
Cama Astcreth, whom tha Preenicians called 
dAstirié, queco of heaven, with crescent horn 

Ailton, Forudies Lot, | is (lag 


(Milton does not always preserve the 
difference between Ashtaroth and Asto- 
reth; for he speaks of the “mooned 
Ashtaroth, heaven's queen and mother,”) 


As'tragon, the philosopher and creat 
hee by whom Gondibert and his 
rienids were cured of the wounds re- 
ceived in the faction fght, stirred up by 
rioce Oswald. Astragon had a splendid 
ibrary and museum. One room was 
called ‘‘Great Nature's Office,” another 
“Nature's Nursery," and the library was 
called ‘The Monument of Vanished 
Mind.” <Astragon (the poet eays) dis- 
covered the londstone and its use in 
navigation. He had one child, Hertha, 
who loved duke Gondibert, and to whom 
she was promised in marriage, The tale 
being unfinished, the sequel is not known. 


—Sir W. Davenant, Gondibert (died 
1605). 
Astre‘'a, Mrs. Alphm Tehn, an 


outhoress. She published the story of 
I'rince Oroonoki died 1689), 
The stage now loosely does Astres tread. 
Pops. 

Astrée (2 sy/.), a pastoral romance 
hy Honore I Urfe (1616), very vele- 
brated for giving birth to the pastoral 
achoul, which had for a time an over- 
whelming power on \iteratun dress, and 








ASTRINGER, 


amusements, Pastoral ree had re 
ajpeared in Portwzal fall gis year 
reenitinats in the “pastoral peer Bs of 
Montemayer called [vena (1652); and 
Lonyos, in the fifth century, had 
duced a beautiful prose pastoral ¢ 

The Loves of Dophnis and Chloe, | 
boch these pastora's stand alone, while 


that of D'Urfe is the beginning of @ 


long series. 
Astringer, a faleoner, Shakespes 
introduces an astringer in Als Well that 


Ands Well, actv, ac. 1. (From the Prmeli 


eusfour, Latin gustercus, ““@ goshiawk."’) | 


A “gentle astringer" is @ 
falconer. 

We omally call a teoner who keeps thet kied of 
baek [the guetawk) on strlger—Lowell, Low 
Diatisnary. 

As'tro-fiamman'te (5 ayl.), queen 
of the night. The word meana™ 
star.”"—Mozard, Die Zaulerflile (1791). 


Astronomer (Tic), in Rasselaa, an — 


old enthusiast, who believed himeelf to 
bave the contro) and direction of the 
weather. He leaves Imlac his successor, 
but implores him not to interfere with 
the constituted order. 

| hase [_eer ~ aa jad he te [misc * for five jT]nr 
fhe regulates ul Ube Wendler, aod the daetriiation of the 
(eds Liew mei) fmt Lee fo oe bee, mane jae 
fram trope te trope by my dlimectian >; the howe, ot ony 
Gul, have preredl thelr Sailers, aie! ike Nile bas over 
Gores] wt wy onmmuaen! : T laanw reelradisn) Live ie uf 





ae s 


damming ised Indian, takes an onth of virginity 


nl 
but subseqaently fnlling in lowe with 
Chactue, a young Indian, she poirons 
herself for fear that she may be tempted 
to break heroath. The novel was reooived 
with extraordinary enthusiasm (1801), 

(This has nothing to do with Affila, 
king of the Huns, ner with Afhale (queen 
of Judah), the subject of Hacine'’s great 
tryed y.) 

Atalanta, of Areadia, wished to 
remain single, and therefore gave out 








ATELLAN FABLES. 


Her abode, ‘‘ far under ground hard by 
the of hell," is described at lengtt 
in bk. iv. 1. When sir Elandamour was 
challenged by [iragendoccio (canto 4), 
the terms of the contest were that the 
conqueror should have “‘ Florimel,” and 
the other ‘the old haz Ate,” who wns 
always to ride beside him til! he could 
pass her off to ancther.—Spenser, Foéry 


Owes | iv. (1596). 


Atell’an Fables (The), in Latin 
Atella'ne Fabule, a species of farce - 
fermed by the ancient Romans, anc 
called from Atella, in Campania. They 
differ d from comedy because no magis- 
trates or persons of rank were introduced ; 
they di from the talernarie or 
geare drama, because domestic life was 





not represented in them ; and they differed | 
on the mimes, because there was neither | 


eae nor nibaldry. ‘They were not 
rformed by professional actors, but by 
Roman citizens of rank; were written 
in the Oscan lanuae, ‘and were ‘dis- 

tinguished for their refined humour. 
were suppus= fo be directly derived from the 


They were 
ancient Mimé of the Alellan Faliles —Sir W. Scott, Phe | 


Drama. 


A’tha, a country in Connaught, which 
for a time had its own chief, and some- 
times usurped the throne of Ireland. 
Thas Cairbar (lord of Atha) usurped the 
throne, bat was disseated by Fingnl, who 
restored Conar king of Ulster. The war 
of Fingal with Cairbar is the subject of 
the Ussianic poem Jem'ora, so called 
from the palace of that name whers 
Cairbar murdered king Cormac. The 
kings of the Fir-bolg were called “ lords 
of Atha.” — Ossuin. 


Ath’alie (3 sy/.), daughter of Ahab 


and Jezabel, and wife of Joram king of | 


Judah. She massacred all the remnant 
of the house of Liavid; but Jonel eseayred, 
and six vears afterwards was proclaimed 
king. Athalie, attracted by the shouts, 
went to the temple, and was killed hy 
the mob. This forms the subject and 
title of Racine’s cie/+wwrre (1691), 
and was Mdlle. Rachel s creat part. 


(Racine’s tragedy of Athaflie, queen of | 


Judah, must net be confounded with 
Corncille’s travedy of Attia, king of the 
Huns.) 

Atheist’s Tragedy (7c), by Cyril 
Toarneur. The “atheist” is I! Amville, 
wi > murders his brother Montferrers for 
bis estates.— (Seventeenth century.) 


Ath’elstane (3 sy/.), surnamed “' The 








ATHOS. 


Unready,” thane of Coningsburgh.—Su 
Ww. Seite Fests (time, Richard I.). 
*,* ‘‘Unready” does not mean unpre- 


pared but ‘njsdicionis (from Anglo-Saxon, 


réd, ‘‘ wisdom, counsel”), 


Athe’na (Juno) once meant “the air,” 
but in Homer this goddess is the repre- 
sentative of civic prudence and military 
skill; the armed protectress of states 
and cities. 


Athe’nian Bee, Plato, so called 


| from the honeyed sweetness of his com- 


osition. It is said that a bee settled on 
is lip while he was an infant asleep in 
his cradle, and indicated that ‘‘ honeved 
words” would fall from his lips, and flow 
from his pen. Sophocles is called ‘*The 
Attic Bee.” 


Athenodo’rus, the Stoic, told Augus- 
tus the best way to restrain unruly anger 
was to repeat the alphabet before giving 


way to it. 


The sacred line he did but once repeat, 
And laid the storm, and cooled the raging beat. 
Tickell, The Horn-book, 
Ath’ens. 


German Athens, Saxe-Weimar, 

Athens of Ircland, Belfast. 

Modern Athens, Edinburgh, so called 
from its resemblance to the Acropolis, 
when viewed from the sea opposite.— 
Willis. 

Muhummedun Athens, Bagdad in the 
time of Haroun-al-Kaschid. 

Athens of the New World, Boston, 
noted for its literature and literary in- 
stitutions. 

Athens of the Nurth, Copenhagen, un- 
rivalled for its size in the richness of ite 
literary and antique stores, the number 
of its societies for the encouragement of 
arts, sciences, and gencral learning, to- 
gether with the many illustrious names 
on the roll of citizenshi 

Athens of Switzerland, Zurich, so called 
from the number of protestant refugees 
who resorted thither, and inundated 
Europe with their works on controversial 
divinity. Coverdale’s Bible was printed 
at Zurich in 1535; here Zuinglius 
preached, and here Lavater lived. 

Athens of the West. Cor’dova, in Spain, 
was so called in the middle ayes. 


Ath’'liot, the most wretched of all 
women. 


Her comfort Is (if for her any be), 
That none can show more causc of grief than she. 
Wm. Browne, Sritunnia’s s‘astoruls, t. & (161%). 


Ath’os. Dinoc’ratés, a sculptor, pro- 
posed to Alexander to hew mount Athos 








ATHUNREE. 
into a statue representing the eae con- 
queror, with a city in his left and 
a basin in his 


Alexander preally ap proved of the sug- 
geation, b ut “objec ted to the locality. 
Are uew out a hace meontaln af 
de Plioduip ss eon proper! to de wi ) Ac 
Byron, Dow Jaan, alll GB. 
Athun'ree, in 
was fought the great battle between 
Felim O'Connor on the side of the Trish, 
and William de [}ourro on the aide — 
Mrviloh. The Irish lost 10,000 mien, a 
the whole tibe of the (Connor fail oon 
cept. Fe'lim’s brother, who eseaped ative, 


At'im us, Daseness of Mind personified 
in The Purple /sland (1633), by Thineas 
Fletcher, ‘A careless, idle ewhifl. .. 


his work to ent, drink, sleep, and purge | 


bis reins.” Ful Wy descnbed in eanto Vill. 
(iareck, afimos, ‘one dishonoured, na 


A’tin ( Strife ), the aqjuire of Pyr’- 
ochlés,—Spenser, Faery Queen, ii, 4, 5, 6 
(1500). 


Atlante'an Shoulders, shoulders 
Uroad and strong, like those of Atlas, 
which support the world. 


ar ee 
Wiih Allen ‘i TL us 
Tk a eee Ti! a ite ‘Ni hared) jiriete tite Dee 


Be hata r omadian Lot, i ab | Li. 





night to receive Wi the 
waters which flewed from the monwiaiq, | 


Connanght, where | 





euCSeEee 


AUBREY. . 


PA caps rns Mme of the Paton, whose 
ut the thread of life with « 
pair of ucissors. 


Wor whemre of Alipnpen: ho Ft 


Attic 





495-400). Se ate oo 


nian 
Attic Boy | ag tr 
Mitten in Hen Pou 4 
was was belowed by Aurorn or Mor, 
a# roarried to He waa | 
ately fond of hunting. 
TW ete ad adil 
Wis che Artie bop tn ame, 
in a tom 
fers (1 
Attic Muse (The), Xenophon the 
historian (n.c, 444-859), 


At'ticus (The English), Joseph Addi- 


| gon tiers Tre). 


* Who bet cvord leogh ff eeck 6 man fiers be, 
Who wenalel cook aa OW Attics) area fe F 
lope, Praiapue tp the Zane, 

The Christian Atticus, Reginald Heber, 
bishop of Calcutta (17 83-18: 20). 

The frish Atticus, George Faulkner, 
printer and author (1700- 1775). 

At'tila, one of the tragedies of Pierre 
Cormeille (1667). This king of the Huna, 
usually called ** The Scourme of (iod." 





AUBRI’S DOG. 








65 





AUGUSTA. 


house and seek protection with Mr. | the Epcans, in Elis, kept 8000 oxen for 


Mortimer. 

Aupusta Al , daughter of Mr. 
Aubrey, in love with Francis Tyrrel, the 
nephew of Mr. Mortimer. She is enubbed 
and persecuted by the vulgar Lucinda 
Bridgemore, and most wantonly. per- 
secuted by lord Abberville, but ae 

ssing through many a most painfu 
visitation, ke ts happily married to the 
man of her choice.—Cumberland, The 
‘whole Lover (1780). 

Au'bri’s Dog showed a most un- 
accountable hatred to Richard de Macaire, 
snarling and fying at bim whenever he 
appeared in might. Now Aubri had 
been murdered by some one in the forest 
of Bondy, and this animosity of the dog 
directed suspicion towards Richard de 
Macaire. Richard was taken up, and 
condemned to single combat with the 
deg, by whom he was killed. In his 
dying moments he confessed himself to 
be the murderer of Aubri. (See Doc.) 


Le combat evtre Macaire et le chien ewt lien A Pars, 
@ora [Mie Looviersn, Oo place co fait mervaeilleos en 
151, mals... fl eet bien antéricur, car il et men- 
thet dis fe sitele précédent par Alteiric des Trois 
fut —Boullet fiat, Csalrereel, tc. 

Auch'termuch'ty (./ojn), the Kip- 
mes carrier.—Sir W. Scott, The AMul 
(time, Elizabeth). 

Audhum’'bla, the cow created by 
Surt to nourish Ymir. She supplied him 
with four rivers of milk, and was herself 
nourished by licking dew from the rocks, 
—andinavian Miytholozy. 


Audley. Je Join Audley here? In 
Richardson's travelling theatrical booth 
this question was asked aloud, to signify 
that the performance was to be brought 
to a close a3 soun as 
platfurm was crowded with new-comers, 
waiting to be admitted (1766-153). 

The same question was asked by Shuter 
(in 1759), whose travelling company pre- 
ceeded Richardson’s. 


Audrey, a country wench, who jilted 
William fur Touchstone, She is an ex- 
cellent specimen of a wondering she- 
gawkr. She thanks the gods that ‘ she 
is foul,” and if to be poetical is not to be 
honest, she thanks the gods also that 
“adhe is not poetical,"—Shakespeare, As 
Yuu Like Jt (1508). 

The character of “ Audrey.” that of a feiss fool, shen 
wt hive been ged [i.e by Mie Poss, in ber Lol 
pearance in public); the last fine of the farewell addeews 
re, “And coe pour Audley bits joo ob isrewell" 
(ay 3, ee) J ioe Smith, Meracirs, ete. (1) 400). 


Au'gean Stables. Auytas hing of 


w;wesible, as the | 


thirty years in stalls which were never 
cleansed. It was one of the twelve 
labours of Her'culés to cleanse these 
stables in one day. This he accomplished 
by letting two rivers into them. 


If the Augean stable fay" dramatic impurity] waa nc¢ 
ficiently chen ihe aiream of public opinion was 
fhirly directed agalnel |i conglomerated impurities.—Sh 


Ww. tt, The frame, 
Augusta. London [TZrinobantina] 
was so called by the Romans. 
Where full in view Augusta's spires are seen, 
With flowery lawns sud waving wouds betwees 
A homide habitation roen, beside 
Where = meandering rolls his ample tide. 
Falconer, he Shépevreck, i. 3 (1786) 
Awyus'fa, mother of Gustavus Vasa. 
She is a prisoner of Christian IT. king of 
Denmark, but the king promises to set 
ber free if she will induce ber son to 
submission. Augusta refuses, but in the 
war which follows, Gustavus defeata 
Christian, and becomes. king of Sweden. 
—H. Brooke, Gustavus Vasa (1730). 


Auwjusta, a title conferred by the 
Roman emperors on their wives, aisters, 
daughters, mothers, and even concubines, 
lt had to be conferred ; for even the wife 
of an Augustus was not an Augusta until 
after her coronation. 

l. Ewpresses. Livia and Julia were 
both Awyusta; so were Julia (wife of 
Tiberius), Mesealina, Agrippina, Octavia, 
Poppa, Statilia, Sabina, Domitilla, 
Domitia, and Faustina. In imperials the 
wife of an emperor is spoken of as 
Awyustu: Serenissinut Augusta conjus 
nostra; Divina Awjusta, etc. But the 
title had to be conferred ; hence we read, 
“Domitian uxorem suam = Aruyustam 
jussit nuncupari ;" and “ Plavia Titiana 
enilem die, uxor ejus (te. Pertinax | 
Anjusta est appellata,” 

2. Mornees or ls taNDMOTHERS. An- 
tonia, grandmether of Caligula, was 
created Anyjvela, Claudius made his 
mother Antonia Awyusta after ber death, 
Helioval)'alus had coims inscribed with 
Julia Mocsa Aumywsta,” in honour of his 
granimether; Mamma, mother of Alex- 
ander Sevérus, is styled Augusta on 
coins; and so is IJleléna, mother of 
Constantine, 

$3. Sistims. lIlonorius speaks of his 
sister as “‘venerubilis Augusta germana 
noetra,” Trajinm has coins inscribed with 
“Diva Marciana Auwysysta.” 

4. Davuwrerns., Mallia Scantilla the 
wife, and Lidia the daughter of Didius 
Julianus, were both Auyusta. Titus in- 
scribed on coins his daughter as ‘‘ Julia 

¥ 








AUGUSTAN AGE, 
Sabina Auyusta ;™ 
emperce Decius tusersteed with ** Hereunia. | 
Etruscilla Awyustc,” and “ Sallaatiia Ase 
gusta,” sisters cf the em peror Deciua, 
5. Ornens. Matidia, nieoe of Trajan, 
is called Auwyusta om coma § Constantine 
Monomachus called his conaubine Aw 


quslz. 


Augus'tan Age, the golden age of 


a people's literature, so called because 
while Augustus was emperor, Rome was 
noted for ite literary giants. 

The Awyustun Aye of the 
Flicobethan period. That Anne is 
called the “ Silver Age.” 

The Awyustan Age of Fromes, that of 
Lovis XIV. (181n- 1740). 

The Awyusten Age of Gennany, Dine 
teenth centurr. 

Tie Awyustan Age of Portagal, the 
rego of don Alphonse Henrique. In 
this reign Brazil wes occupied; the 
African coast explored ; the sea-route to 
‘ndin was traversed; and Camoens 
dqounshed. 

Augusti'na, the Maid of Saragoza. 
She waa only 22 when, ber lover being 
shot, she mounted the battery in his 


place. The Freneli, after a siege of two 
months, were vbliged to retreat, Augual 
15, Laos, 


Seo) were the erpholte uf the Meld of Soreporm. fhe 





See islets 
Auro'ra’s 


Pera the 
These teats are shed for the death nee te 
son Memnon, who was slain ty Achill& 
at the sieve of Troy. 
Auso'nia, Italy, 
son, son of Ulysses, 


roman the Fain, — 
ioey Wilkes “\ Gandele « a! Freee, of, eee eefinel, 
The oft Ageia) Ini uemewial fein 
Conmplell (otra of WT pemimy, 1 15 (a 


Austin, the assumed name of the 
lind of Marines!) when he frenannend the 


Hi 


so called from Am- 








AUTOLYCOS. 


AVILION. 





Autol . the craftiest of thieves. 


He stole the flocks of his neighbours, and 
ehanged their marks. Sis’yphos out- 
witted him by marking his sheep under 
their feet. 

Aatol'yer lar and witty 
rogue, in The he Winterte Tale, by Shake. 
speare (1604). 


Av’alon or Avalion, Glastonbury, 
generally called the ‘‘isle of Avalon.” 
The abode of ki Arthur, Obéron 
Morgaine la Fée, the Fees generally, an 
sometimes cailed the ‘‘island of the 
It is very fully described in the 
French romance of Ogier e Danois. 
Tennyson calls it Avil’ion (q.0.). Dray- 
ton, in his Polyolbion, stylesit “the ancient 
isle of Avalon,” and the Romans “ insula 
Avalonia.” 

three times famnous isle: where ts that 
Be with thyzelf compared for glory and 
Whit Giastoabery stood 

M. Drayton, Pelyolbion, lil. (1619). 

Avan’turine or Aven’turine (4 
syl.), a variety of rock-crystal having 
a spangled appearance, caused by scales of 
mica or crystals of copper. e name 
is borrowed from that of the artificial 
gold-spangled glass obtained in the first 
instance par aventure (‘‘ by accident”). 

. and the hair 
All over glanced with dew-drop or with gem, 
Like sparkles in the stone avauturine. 
Tennyson, Gareth and Lynette. 

Avare (L’). The plot of this comedy 
is as follows: Ha on the miser and 
his son Cicante (2 sy/.) both want to 
marty Mariane (3 syi.), daughter of An- 
seime, alas don Thomas d'Alburci, of 
Naples. Cléante gets possession of a 
casket of gold belonging to the miser, 
and hidden in the garden. When Har- 
pazon discovers his loss he raves like a 
mad man, and Cléante jrives him the choice 
of Marane or the casket. The miser 
chooses the casket, and leaves the voung 
luiv to his son. The second plcet is 
connected with Elise (2 syl. ), the miser’s 
dauyhter, promised in marriage by the 
father to bis friend Anselme (2 sil.) § 
but Elise is herself in love with Valeére, 
who, however, turns out to be the son of 
Anselme. As soon as Anselme discovers 
that Valere is his son, who he thought 
bad been lost at sea, he resigns to him 
Elise, and eo in both instances the young 
folks marry together, and the ol 
give up their unnatural rivalry.—Moliere, 

Avare (1657). 


that might 
t, 


Ava'tar, the descent of Brahma to | 
this earth. It iv said in Hind mytho- . 


ones . 
’ Nar uever shall, whyles any worlde may stande 
. Where men have mliude ts take good bookes in handa 


logy that Brahma has already descended 
nine times in various forms, but is yet to 
appear a tenth, in the figure of a warrior 
upon a white horse, to cut off all incor- 
rigible offenders. 

Nine times have Brahma's wheels of lightning bared 

Nine times bat Guile thn throu mug all bis ¢ t frame, 

Lonvalsive trem bled. te the ne Mighty an 

But hearen th serie ae mre i taeda 

He comes | dread Brahma shakes the suviess sky . 

Heaven's fiery horse, beneath Sis warrior-form, 

Paws the light clouds, and gallops on the storm. 

Campbell, Pleasures af Hope, |. (1799). 

Ave'nel (2 syl.), Julian Avenel, the 
usurper of Avenel Castle. 

Lady Alice Avenel, 
Walter. 

Mary. Avenel, daughter of lady Alice. 
She marries Halbert Glendinnin —Sir 
W. Scott, The Monastery (date 1559). 


Ave'nel (Sir Halbert Glendinning, knight 
of), same as the bridegroom in 


The The lady Mary of Avenel, same as The 


widow of s.r 


bride in Lhe Monastery. —Sir W. Scott, 
The Abbot (time, Elizabeth). 
The White Lady of Arencl, a spirit 


mysteriously connected with the Avenel 
family, as the Irish banshee is with true 
Mile’sian families. She announces good 
or ill fortune, and manifests a general 
interest in the family to which she is 
attached, but to cthers she acts with con- 
siderable caprice; thus she shows un- 
mitigated malignity to the sacristan and 
the robber. Any truly virtuous mortal 
has commanding power over her. 
Nvon gleams on the lake, 
Noon glows on the fell ; 
Awake thee, awake, 
White maid of Avenel ! 
Sir W. Scott, Tae Monastery (time, Elizabeth) 
Aven'ger of Blood, the man who 
had the birthright, according to the 
Jewish polity, of taking vengeance on 
him who had killed one of his relatives. 
. . . the Christless code, 
That must have Jife for a blow. 
Tennywa, Maud, ILL 1 
Av'icen or Abcu-ibn-Sina, an Arabian 
physician and philosopher, born at 
Shiraz, in Persia (9830-1037). He com- 
posed a treatise on logic, ard another on 
metaphy sics. <Avicen is called both the 
Hippo’cratés and the Aristotle of the 
Arabs. 


Of physicke speake for me, king Aviesn ... 
Yet was his xlory never set un sheife, 


G. Gascvigne, The Pruits uf Warre, ivik (died 1577). 


Avil'ion (‘the apple island"), near 
the terrestrial paradise. (See AVALON.) 





AYLMER. 


Where falls oct hail, or ralo, or any eeaey 

fu ever wind blirws bawiliy ; teal ic lie 

fk=poeemdowed, happy, Gur with orchaneer 

And iowery hollow cowoe] 2) ne 

Where | | Artier) will bee! me of oy gies we, 
Tennyson, arte all anche, 


Avl'mer (.Wrs.), a neighbour of sir 
Henry Lee.—Sir W. Scutt, Woodstock 


(time, Commonwealth), 


Ay'mer (/’rior), a jovial Benedictine 
monk, prior of Jorvaalx Abber,—Sir W, 
Scott, Joan4oc (time, Richard Lh. 


Ay'’mon, duke of Dordona (Dor- 





dvyw), He had four sana, Rinaldo, 
drujcoiardo, Alardo, and Ricciasdetto 
(ue. Kenaud, (rulseard, Aland, sod | 


Kichan!), whose adventures are De gab 
ject of a French romance, ontivded Jes 
Quire ilz dymon, by H. de Alleneuve 
(1105-1223), 


Az’amat-Bat'uk, pseudonym of M, 
Thichland, war correspondent of the 
fali-Mall Gazette, in 1870, 


Aza'zel, one of the ginn or jinn, all of 
whom were muie of “smokeless fire,” 
that is, the fire of the Simoom., 
jinn inhabited the earth before man was 
created, bit on account of their persistent 
dhanbedicace were driven from it by an 
ariny of ansrels. When Adam wag 
frente) tor feed commended all ta wines 





| War. 


These | 








BAAL 





aes Kap i the Gon af Barns 


Az’tecns, an Indian tribe, which con- 


suered the Hoainan 2 syl.), selved their 
furvitiocy, and wabinahet: eoeteas on 
a southern branch of the Miseoun, having 
Az'tlan as their im i é Fr 


North America, he towk the part 
Hoamen, and, cong the Axtocu, 
restored the city anil the territory 
perlining thereto to fhe queen Erill’yab, 
and the Aztecas migrated to Mexico, 
city Aztlan 1s described na “full of 
pulaces, gardens, groves, and houses” (in 
the twelfth century).—Southey, Mado 
( 1). 


Z 


Agzuce’na,s gipsy. Manri'co is sup- 
posed to be her son, but i in nealitw the 
som of (Garzia (lrother of the coate di 
Lana).—Verdi, /i Trorato’ré (1558). 








BAALBEC OF IRELAND. 
and Carthaginian proper names, as Hanni- 
bal, Hasdru-bal, Bel-ehazzar, etc. 

=» [the] grveral! names 
Of Baten aul Astron ; those euale ; 
medi be 
Milton, Parsdiee Lent, 1 43 (1605). 


Baalbec of Ireland, Kilmallock 


in Limerick, noted for its ruins. 


Bab (Lady), a waiting maid on a lady 
eo called, who assumes the airs with the 
name and address of her mistress. Her 
fellow-servants and other servants address 


heras ‘lady Bab,” or “* Your ladyship.” | 


She is a fine wench, ‘‘ but by no means 
ticular in keeping her teeth clean,” 
be says she never reads but one “ book, 

which is Shikspnr." And she calls 

Lovel and Freeman, two gentlemen of 

fortune, “downright hottenpota."—Rev. 

J. Townley, Mijh Life Helow Stairs (1763). 


Ba'ba, chief of the ewnuchs in the 
court of the sultana Gulbey’az.—Byron, 
Don Juan, v. 28, ete. (1820). 


Baba (Ali), who relates the story of the 
“ Forty Thieves" in the Araiian Nights’ 
Entertainments, He discovered the 
thieves’ cave while hiding in a tree, and 
hear? the mazic word “Ses'ami,” at 
which the door of the cave opened and 
ehiut. 

Cusm Baba, brother of Ali Taba, who 
entered the cave of the forty thieves, but 
forgot the pass-word, and stood crying 
‘Wipen Wheat!" ** Open Barley!" to the 
door, which obeyed no sound but ‘* Open 
Sesame !" 

Baba Mus'tapha, a cobbler who 
eewed together the four pieces into which 
Casaim's lwxdy had been cleft bv the forty 
thieves. When the thicves discovered 
that the body had been taken away, they 
sent one of the band into the city, to 
ascertain who had died of late, The man 
happened to enter the cobbler's stall, and 
falling inbo a eossip heard about the body 
which the cobbler had sewed tovether. 
Mustapha pointed out to him the house 
of (assim Piaba's widow, and the thief 
marked it with a piece of white chalk. 
Next day the cobbler pointed out the 
house to another, whe marked it with 
rel chalk. And the day following he 
pointed it ont to the captain of the band, 
who instead of markiny the door studied 
the house till be felt sure of recognizing 
t.—Aronan Niydts (*“Ali Babs or The 
Forty Thieves"). 


Bababalouk, chief of the black 
"u he, whose duty it was to wait on the 


69 BACCHUS. 








sultan, to guard the sultanas, and te 
superintend the harem.—Habesci, State of 











| the Ottoman Empire, 153-6. 


Ba’bel (‘“‘confusion”). Thereisatown 
in Abyssinia called /Habesh, the Arabic 
word for ‘‘ confusion.” This town is se 
called from the great diversity of races 
by which it is inhabited: Christians, 
Jews, and Mohammedans, Ethiopians, 
Arabians, Falashas (exiles), Gallas, and 
Negroes, all consort together there. 


Babes in the Wood, insurrec- 


| tionary hordes that infested the mountains 


of Wicklow, and the woods of Ennis- 
carthy towards the close of the eighteenth 
century. (See CHILDREN IN THE Woop.) 


Babie, old Alice Gray's servant-girl. 
—Sir W. Scott, Bride of Lammermoor 
(time, William III.). 


Babie'ca (3 sy/.), the Cid’s horse. 

] learnt to prize Babieca from his head unto his hoof, 
The Cid (1128). 

Baboon (PAiip), Philippe Bourbon, 
duc d'Anjou. 

Lewis Baboon, Louis XIV., ‘a false 
loon of a grandfather to Philip, and one 
that might justly be called a Jack-of- 
all-trades.” 


Sometimes you would see th's Lewis Baboon behind his 
counter, selling beoad-cloth, «ometimes measuring linen; 
next he would be dealing {1 mercery-ware; bigh 
heads, ribbons, gloves, funy, and lace, be understood toa 
aicety .. . nay, he would deavend to the selling of tapes, 
garters, and shwebuckles When shop was shut up be 
would go abwit the neighbourhood, and earn half-a-crown, 
by teaching the young men and maidens to dance. Ly 
these means he had acquired iminense riches, which he 
ased to wjuander away at back-sword (in war) quarter- 
staff, and cudgel-play. in which he took great pleasure.— 
Dr. Arbuthnot, History af John Aull, i. (1712). 


Bab’ylon. Cairo in Egypt was so 
called by the crusaders. Rome was so 
called by the puritans; and London waa, 
and still is so called by some, on account 
of its wealth, luxurv, and dissipation.-— 
The reference is to Rev. xvii. and xviii. 


Babylonian Wail. The foundress 
of this wall (two hundred cubits high, 
and fifty thick), was Semiramis, mythic 
foundress of the Assyrian empire. She 
was the daughter of the fish-goddess 
Der’ceto of Ascilon, and a Syrian youth. 


Onr statues... . she 
The fuundress of the Babylonian wall. 
Tennyson, The Prinecas, 1. 


Bacchan’tes (3 syl.), priestesses of 
Bacchus. 
Round about him [ Bacchus) fair Bacchantés, 
Bearing crmbale, flutes, and thyr-es, 
Wild from Naxtan groves, or Zanté's 
Vineyards, sing del:rious verses. 
Longfelluw, Drinking Song. 


Bacchus, in the Lusud, an epic 








BACTIARACH, 





m by Canineny (1569), is the 
Reation of the evil principle whieh acts in 
opposition to Jupiter, the lord af Destiny. 
Mars is made by the poet the — 
power of Christianity, and Bacchus of 
Mohammedaniam. 


Bacharach, « red wine, no called 
from o town of the same pame i the 
Lower Palatinate. Pope Pius 11, used to 
I po it a tun of it to Rome early, andl 
Nuremberg obtained its freedom at the 
price of four casks of it s-year 
rors Bachbarnch means ‘the alter of 
Bacchus” (BuccAi ara), the altar referred 
to tele a rock in the bed of the tively 
which indicated to the vine-growerm W 
sort of year they might expect, If the 
head of the rock appeared abowe waiter 
the season was a dry one, and a fine 
vintage might be looked for; if mot it 
was a wet season, and bad for the grapes. 

thal gucien! Gren of Teacher, — 
The beastifil tren that gives ue wine, 
With che fragrant alow of Musca) pe, 
Lougielow, Fhe Golden Leapend. 

Backbite (Sir Benjamin), nephew of 
Crabtree, very conceited, and very cen- 
sonous. His fnends called him a creat 
poet and wit, bot he never published any- 


thin; Ey because ‘twas very vulvar to | 
print; besides, m3 he anid, his little pro- 
ductiona circulated more “liv civing 





and 
Dickens, Bleah House (1853), 


PR gm oem) ory of Selenite 


wae the name of the 
clothes he esca ge the tortrens of 
Ham (1808, 1844-1878). 
_ Ba‘don, Bath. The twelfth creat vies 
of Arthur over the Saxons was af 
on ITU (Bannerdown). + 


Tory bor be himaaif (Hing 4rthar| at Radin hore 
Worn 

Sis atergianeacaat 
Thre Tundra pe with Ms ows vallot and, 


Badou'ra, tient tC of den (2 
s(.) king of China, the “ moat beantiful 
woman ever seen upon earth.” The em- 
peror Galour wished her to marry, but 
she expressed an aversion to wedlock. 
However, one night by fairy influence she 


| Was shown prince Camaral‘zaman aslecy, 


fell in love with him, and exchanged 
rings. Next day she inquired for the 
a L ‘ a = a # 








BATICA. 


hospitality to the false Fatima. Aladdin 
killed both these magicians.— Arabian 
Nights (‘‘ Aladdin or The Wonderful 
Lamp”). 

asd Andalusia, oF Spain vo general. So 

usia, or Spain in general. 

called from the river Batis or Guadal- 
quiver. 





Or care’ the towers of Meme [Keypeh ortho pas 
or 
By mcred Ganges watered. conduct 
Engtish . 
Akenside, Hymn to the Natads. 


Bagdad. A hermit told tho caliph 
Almanzor that one Moclas was destined 
to found a ay on the spot where he was 
standing. ‘‘I am that man,” said the 
ealiph, and he then informed the hermit 
how in his boyhood he once stole a 
bracelet, and his nurse ever after called 
him ‘*‘ Moclas,” the name of a well-known 


thief.—Marigny. 
Bagshot, one of a gang of thieves 


who conspire to break into the house of 
lady Bountiful.—Farquhar, The DBeasz’ 
Stralagem (1705). 


Bagstock (Major Joe), an apo- 
lectic retired military officer, living in 
Princess's Place, opposite to Miss Tox. 
The major had a covert kindness for Miss 
Tox, and was jealous of Mr. Dombey. 
He speaks of himself as ‘‘ Old Joe Bag- 
stock,” “Old Joey,” ‘Old J.,” ‘‘Old 
Josh,” ‘Rough and tough Old Jo,” “J. 
B.,” “Old J. B.,” and soon. He is also 
given to over-eating, and to abusing his 
poor native servant.—C. Dickens, Dombey 
and Son (1846). 


Bah’adar, master of the horse to 
the king of the Magi. Prince Am’giad 
was enticed by a collet ‘o enter the 
minister’s house, and when Bahadar re- 
tured, he was ncta little surprised at the 
sight of his uninvited guest. The prince, 
however, explained to him in private how 
the matter stood, and Bahadar, entering 
into the fun of the thing, assumed for the 
nonce the place of a slave. The collet 
would have murdered him, but Amgiad, 
to save the minister, cut off her head. 
Bahadar, being arrested for murder, was 
condemned to death, but Amgiad came 
forward and told the whole truth, where- 
upon Bahadar was instantly released, and 
Amgiad created vizier.—Arabian Nwhts 
(‘‘Amgiad and Assad’). 


Bahman (Prince), eldest son of the 
sultan Khbrossou-echah of Persia. In 


71 


BAILLIF. 


infancy he was taken from the palace by 
the sultana's sisters, and set adrift on a 
canal, but being rescued by the superin- 
tendent of the sultan’s gardens, he was 
brought up, and afterwards restored to 
the sultan. It was the “talking bird” 
that told the sultan the tale of the young 
prince's abduction. 

Prince Bahman’s Knife. When prince 
Bahmac started on his exploits, he gave 
to his sister Parazidé (4 syl.) a knife, 
saying, ‘‘ As long as you find this knife 
clean and bright, you may feel assured 
that I am alive and well; but if a drop 
of blood falls from it, you may know that 
I am no longer alive.”-—Arabian Nights 
(‘‘ The Two Sisters,” the last tale). 


Bailey, a sharp lad in the service «f 
Todger’s boarding-house. His ambition 
was to appear quite a full-grown man. 
On leavin dirs. Todger's, he became the 
servant o ontague Tigg, manager 0 
the ‘* Anglo-Bengalee empan —C, 
Dickens, Martin Chuzzlewit (1844). 


Bailio (General), a parliamentary 
leader.—Sir W. Scott, Leyend of Mont- 
rose (time, Charles I.). 





Bailie (Giles), « gipsy; father of Ga- 
brael Fua (nephew to Meg Merrilies).—- 
Sir W. Scott, Guy Munnering (time, 
George II.). 


Bailiff’s Daughter of Isling- 
ton (in Norfolk). A squire’s sen loved 
the bailiff's daughter, but she gave him 
no encouragement, and his friends sent 
him to London ‘‘an apprentice for to 
binde."" After the lapse of seven years, 
the bailiffs daughter, ‘‘in ragged attire,” 
set out to walk to London, ‘‘ her true love 
to inquire.” The young man on horse- 
back met her, but knew her not. ‘ One 
penny, one penny, kind sir!” she said. 
‘““ Where were you born?” asked the 
young man. ‘‘ At Islington,” she replied. 
‘‘ Then prithee, sweetheart, do you know 
the bailiff's daughter there?” ‘She's 
dead, sir, long ago.” On hearing this the 
young man declared he'd live an exile in 
some foreign Innd. ‘‘Stay, oh stay, 
thou goodly youth,” the maiden cried, 
‘‘she is nxt really dead, for I am she.” 
‘*Then farewel: yrief and welcome joy, 
for I have found my true love, whom [ 
feared I should never see agsin.”—Percy, 
Relics of Enjlish Poetry, ii, 8. 

Baillif (ferry), mine host in the 
Canterbury Tales, by Chaucer (1388). 
When the poet begins the second fit af 








BAIL LZOU, ‘ 72 BALANCE. 


the “Rime of Sir Thopas," mine host "the mob which surrounded the palage ah 
exclaime : Yoqssllion, Staenienring Bes Deraa, 
kh. pee i oe ee Ba'luam 2 syl.), the carl of Hant- 


For (han nuk=!@ ow = © 
Sine paren chro ir hy ty pet, ingdon, one ¢ the rebela in the army of 





the duke of Mopmosth 
Bailzou (Ann'aple), the nore of Ard Chereturs, in Ove seme of dalton, Toe 
Effie [leans in her co niinemedt.—Sie Wi The ar lean elk cau ‘ 


Scott, Heart of Mullothian (Gime, George 
N1.). 

Balser-Lamourette (sea Lamour-— 
ette's Avan), a short-lived reconeiliation, | 

Dy wrelt (2 joule, ie), en | 
ra omeTiibab jo, Latnitetie as vlad ao Poel der, 
Geuke par oo dle at. = oat Yn eg 
fotree =Minle  Cutte i eu athe ne dure ia | 
amare; © ali fut beeen vs rh rid i Ue avant aun ir tenet 
Leerrstear ert, — Foneylliet, bibne Cie, oie 

Bajar'do, Rinaldo's steed.—Ariosto, 


Oriundo /rweo (Lolt). 


Baj'azet, surnamed “ The Thonder- 
bolt (i/derim), sultan of ‘Twirkey. 
After suljapating [bulparia, Macedumia, 
Thessaly, and Asia Minor, he laid sieve 
to Constantinople, but was taken captive 
by Tamerlane empe ror of Tartary. He 
was fierce o# a wolf, reckless, and in- 
domitable. Heing osked by Tamerlane 
how be would have treated him had their 
lots been reversed, “Like a dog,” he 
cred, “| would have made you mv 
foutatool when I mounted my saddle, Balairé (ic), alias Ludovic Lesiy, an 
and when your services were not needed old archer of the Scottish Guard at Plessis 


Bu'loom, a “citizen of sober a. 
wi Fh ean the monument of Landon, 
© poor ho was ** 
Ss Bor ee 
— knighted, he séllom Wet ty 
"atc beranie a couruer, took a bribe 
—Pope, Moral Essays, iii, 






‘rance,” wad hung for treason, 


. (For plot, soe Jomaricar.) 
Balack, Dr. Burnet, ee Salie 
bury, who wrote o history called Bwrnets 
Ovn Time, and Ilistory of the Reforma- 
tion.—Dryden and Tate, Afealan and 
Achitop! hel, il. 


Balacla'va, a corruption of fella 
chiare ("* beautiful port”), so called by 
the Genoese, who raised the fortress, some 
peTtions of which stillexist. (See Citance.) 








BALAND OF SPAIN. 


young —G. Farquhar, The Recruiting 
Oficer (1708). 


Balland of Spain, a man of gigantic 
strength, who called himself ‘‘ Fierabras.” 
—Mediaval Romance. 

Balchris'’tie (Jenny), housekeeper to 


the laird of Dumbiedikes.—Sir W. Scott, 
Heart of Midlothian (time, George II.). 


Baldassa're (4 syi.), chief of the 
monastery of St. Jacopo di Compostella. 
—Donizetti’s opera, La Favorite (1842). 

Bal'der, the of light, peace, and 
day, was the pores and Kaanttfal eon of 
Odin and Frigga. His Briedab- 
lik (‘‘ wide-shining "), stood in the Milky 
Way. He was slain by Hiéder, the blind 
old god of darkness and night, but was 
restored to life at the general request of 
the gods.— Scandinavian Mytholoyy. 


(Sydney Dobell has a poem entitled 
Balder, published in 1854.) 
Bal’derston (Caleb), the favourite 
old butler of the master of Ravenswood, 
at Wolfs Crag Tower. Being told to 
vide supper for the laird of Bucklaw, 
Be pretended that there were fat capon 
and good store in plenty, but ali he could 
‘the hinder end of a 


on the table already, and the heel of a 
ewe-milk kebbuck [cheese] ” (ch. vii.).— 
Sir W. Scott, Bride of Lammermoor 
(time, William III.). 

Baldrick, an ancestor of the lady 
Eveline Berenger ‘‘the betrothed.” He 
was murdered, and lady Eveline assured 
Kose Flammock that she bad seen his 
host frowning at her.—Sir W. Scott, 
ne Betrothed (time, Henry 11.). 

Bal’ (The lady Eirmen- 
wrde o great-aunt of lady Eveline 

y) " the betrothed."—Sir W. 
Scott, Zhe Betrothed (time, Henry II.). 


Baldwin, the youngest and comeliest 
of Charlemagne’s paladins, nephew cf sir 
Kouland. 4 





BALIN. 


Baldwin, the restless and ambitious 
duke of Boloi leader of 1200 horse 
in the allied istian army. He was 


_Godfrey’s brother, and very like him, but 
Jerusalem Delivered 


not so tall.—Tasso, 
(1575). ‘ 

*,* He is introduced by sir Walter 
Scott in Count Robert of Paris. 


Baldwin. So the Ass is called in the 
beast-epic entitled Reynard the Fox (the 
word means ‘‘ bold friend "). In pt. iii. he 
is called ‘* Dr." Baldwin (1498). 


Bald’ win, tutor of Rollo (‘the bloody 
brother”) and Otto, dukes of Normandy, 
and sons of Sophia. Baldwin was put to 
death by Rollo, because Hamond slew 
Gisbert the chancellor with an axe and 
not with a sword. Rollo said that 
Baldwin deserved death “‘for teachi 
Hamond no _better.”—-Beaumont 
Fletcher, Zhe Bloody Brother (1689). 


Baldwin (Count), a fatal example of 
paternal self-will. le doted on his elder 
son Biron, but because he married against 
his inclination, disinherited him, and 
fixed all his love on Carlos his youngerson. 
Biron fell at the siege of Candy, and was 
suppoced to be dead. His wife Isabella 
mourned for him seven years, and 
being on the point of starvation, applied 
to the count for aid, but he d_ e her 
from his house as a dog. Villeroy (2 sy/.) 
married her, but Biron returned the 
following day. Carlos, hearing of his 
brother's return, employed ruffians to 
murder him, and then charged Villeroy 
with the crime; but one of the ruffians 
impeached, Carlos was arrested, and 
Isabella, going mad, killed herself. Thus 
was the wilfulness of Baldwin the source 
of infinite misery. It caused the death of 
his two sons, as well as of his daughter- 
in-law.—Thomas Southern, Zhe Fatal 
Murriage (1692). 

Baldwin, archbishop of Canterbury 
(1184-1190), introduced by sir W. Scott ~ 
in his novel called Zhe Betrothed (time, 
Henry II.). 

Baldwin de Oyley, esquire of sir 
Brian de Bois Guilbert (Preceptor of the 
Knights Templars).—Sir W. Scott, 
Ivanhoe (time, Richard I.). 


Balin (Sir), or ‘Balin le Savage,” 
knight of the two swords. He was a 
Northumberland knight, and being taken 
captive, was imprisoned six months by 
king Arthur. It so happened that a 
damsel girded with a sword came te 


Balsam of Fiera 
famous balsam,” said don Quixote, “ only 
costs three rials [about sixpence] for three 
) geet It was the balsam with which 
body of Christ was embalmed, and was 
[ Fe.a’.ra.brah]. 
that one single drop 


Baltha’zar, a name assumed by Portia, 
in Shakespeare's of Venice 
(1598). 


Baltha’car, servant to Romeo, in 
Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet (1597). 


Baitha’zar, servant t» don Pedro, in 
Peres Much Ado about Nothing 
1600). 


Baltha’zar, one of the three ‘‘ kings” 
shown in Cologne Cathedral as one of the 
“Magi” led to Bethlehem by the guiding 
star. The word means “lord of treasures. 
The names of the other two are Melchior 
(“king of light”), and Gaspar or Caspar 
(ine white one”). Klopstock, in 

ah, makes six ‘‘ Wise Men,” and 
hone of the names are like these three. 


Balthazar, father of Juliana, Vo- 
lanté, and Zam’ora. A proud, peppery, 
and wealthy gentleman. His daughter 
Juliana marries the duke of Aranza; his 
tecond daughter the count Montalban ; 
and Zamora marries signor Rinaldo.— 
J. Tobin, Zhe Honeymoon (1804). 

Balue (Cardinal), in the court of 
Louis XI. of France (1420-1491), intro- 
duced by sir W. Scott in Quentin Dur- 
ward (ume, Edward IV.). 

Balugantes (4 syi.), leader of the 
men from Leon, in Spain, and in alliance 
with t.—Ariosto, Orlando Furioso 
(1516). 


Balveny Lord) kinsman of the earl 
of Nev ens Sir . Scott, Fair Maid of 
Perth (time, Henry I'V.). 


Balwhidder [Badl’.wither], a Scotch 
presbyterian r, filled with all the 
old-fashioned national prejudices, but 
sincere, kind-hearted, pious. He is 
garrulous and loves his juke, but is quite 


75 





BANASTAR, 


ignorant of the world, being “in it but 
not of it."—Galt, Annals of the Parish 
(1821). 
ait ie Micah Batehidder ls 9 fine tation of 
and exornplary in. bis but without the fiery seal and 
** kirk-Al eloquence” of 
nant. —R. bers, Znuglish Literature, ii. SOL. 
Baly, one of the ancient and gigantic 
kings of India, who founded fre city 
called by his name. He _ redressed 
wrongs, upheld justice, was generous and 
tru » compassionate charitable, 
so that at death he became one of the 
judges of hell. His city in time got 
overwhelmed with the encroaching ocean, 
but its wails were not overthrown, nor 
were the rooms encumbered with the 
weeds and alluvial of the sea. One day 
a dwarf, named Vamen, asked the mighty 
monarch to allow him to measure three 
of his own paces for a hut to dwell in. 
Baly smiled, and bade him measure out 
what he required. The first pace of the 
dwarf compassed the whole earth, the 
second the whole heavens, and the third 
the infernal regions. Baly at once per- 
ceived that the dwarf was Vishni, and 
adored the present deity. Vishnu made 
the king “Governor of Pad’alon” or 
hell, and permitted him once a year to 
revisit the earth, on the first full moon of 
November. 


Baly built 
A city, like the eities of the gods, 
Being Ilke a gud hinwlf. For many an age 
Hath ocean warred against palaces, 
Till overwhelmed they lie beneath the waves, 
Not overthrown 
Southey, Curse of Kehama, rv. 1 (1808). 


Ban, king of Benwick [Brittany], 
father of sir Launcelot, and brother of 
Bors king of Gaul. This ‘‘shadowy king 
of a still more shadowy kingdom” came 
over with his royal brother to the aid of 
Arthur, when, at the beginning of his 
reign, the eleven kings leagued against 
him (pt. i. 8). 

Yonder | vee the most valiant knight of the world, and 
the man of most renown, for such two brethren as are king 


Ban and king Bors are not living. —Sir T. Malory, History 
af Prince Arthur, L 14 (1470) 


Ban’agher, a town in Ireland, cn the 
Shannon (King's County). Jt formerly 
sent two members to parliament, and was 
a ket borough. yhen a member 
spoke of a rotten borough, he could de- 
vise no stronger expression than That 
beats Banayher, which passed into a 
household 

Banastar (//umfrey), brought up by 
Henry duke of Buckingham, and ad- 
vanced by him to honour and wealth. 





BAPTISTI DAMIOTTI. 





ead Bianca.—Shakespeare, Taming of the 
Shrow (1594). v 


Ba Paduan k, 
wie owe in the en nated incare a 
resenting the clandestine mar- 


of sir Philip Forester. 
unt Margaret's Mirror 
(time, Wilkes” III.). 


Bar of Gold. A ba: of gold above 
the instep is a mark of sovereign rank in 
the women of the families of the deys, 
and is worn as a ‘‘crest” by their female 
relatives. 


4 like god 
Aanounced 


rage en ape fadeli 


predhad eal nanthaerary 
r rank. 


Byren, Deon Juan, fil. 73 (1886). 


Bar’abas, the faithful servant cf 
Ralph de Lascours, ca of the Uran’ia. 
His favourite expression is ‘‘] am afraid ;” 
bat he alwavs acts most bravel v when he 
isafraid. (See Baznanas.)—E, Stirling, 
The Orphan of the Frozen Sea (1856). 


Bar’adas (Count), the king’s fa- 
vourite, first gentleman of the chamber, 
and one of the co ie aun to dethrone 
Louis XIIJ., kill Richelieu, and place the 
duc d'Orléans on the throne of France. 
Karadas loved Julie, but Julie married the 
chevalier Adrien de Mauprat. When 
Richelieu fell into disgrace, the king 
made count Baradas his chief minister, 
but scarcely had he so done when a 
despatch was } at into his hand, reveal- 
‘ng the conspiracy, and Richelieu ordered 
Saradas’ instant arrest.—Lord Lytton, 
Bucheliew (1839). 


Barak el Hadgi, the fakir’, an 
emissary from the aes of Hyder Ali.— 
Sir W. Scott, The Surgeon's Dauyhler 
(time, George ei ). 


Barata’ria, the anland <1) over which 


Sancho Pargza was appointed governor. 
The table was presid over by Dr. Pedro 
Rezio de uel ro, who ca every dish 


set before the governor to be whisked 
away without being tasted,—some be- 
cause they heated the blood, and others 
because they chilled it, some for one evil 
effect, and some for another, so that 
Sancho was allowed to eat nothing. 

Sancho then arrived at a town containing about a 
th eenmi inbahitanta. They gave him to understand 
thit i¢ was called the Island of Harataria, either because 
Purntena was really the nane of the piace, or because be 
obtained the government daruto, i.e. ‘'at a cheap rate.“ 
On bts arrival near the gates of the town, the niunicipal 
efcers cauw out to rsceive him. Presently afier, with 
certain ridiculous ceremonies, they presented bim with 


7 








BARD OF AVON. 


Barbarossa (‘' red beard’ "), Surname 


| of Frederick I. of Germany (1121-1190), 


the keys of the town, and constituted bim perpetual | 


pvernar of the Island of Barataria. —Cervantes, Lon 
@ubests [I. iti. 7. otc. (1615) 


It is said that he never died, but is still 
sleeping in Kytthiluserberg in Thuringia, 
There he sits at a stone table with his six 
knights, waiting the “‘fulnesa of time,” 
when he will come from his cave to 
reacne Germany from bondage, and give 
ber the foremost place of all the world. 
His beard has already grown through the 
table-slab, but must wind itself thrice 
round the table before his second advent. 
ioe Mansun, CHARLEMAGNE, AKTHUR, 

Jeemuonp, SkBASTIAN I1,, to whom 
similar leyends are attached.) 


Like Farber, who ols in o cave, 
Taciurn, sombre, sedaie, and grave, 
Longfellow, Fha Goidan Legenal, 


Barbarossa, a tragedy by John Brown. 
This is not Frederick Barbarossa, the 
emperor of Germany (1121-1190), but 
Horuc Barbarossa, the corsair (175- 
1519). He was a renegade Greek, of 
Mitylené, who made himself master of 
Algeria, which waa for a time subject to 
Turkey. He killed the Moonsh king; 
tried to cut off Selim the son, but without 
success; and wanted to marry Zaphi'ra, 
the king's widow, who rejected bis suit 
with scorn, and was kept in confinement 
for seven years. Sclim returned unex- 
pectedly to Alyiera, and a general nsing 
took place; Harbarossa was slain by the 
insurgents; Zaphira was restored to the 
throne; and Selim her son married Irené 
the daughter of Barbarossa (1742). 


Barbary (St.), the patron saint of 
arsenals, When her father was about to 
strike off her head, she waa killed by « 
fiash of lightning. 
Harbary (foan), the favourite horse of 
Richard II. 
Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary, 
Thai horses that thug eo often Iieet bewtric | 
Shakespeare, Michard //. act ¥. . 5 (JOST. 
Bar’bason, the name of a demon 
mentioned in Tie Merry Wires of Wind- 
gor, act i. sc. 2 (1506), 
1 am not Barisaon; you qunne) conjore me.—Shake 
fimare, Meary F. act ll oe. 2 |, 
Barco'chebah, an antichrist. 
Bhared the fall of theaotichriat Geroochebesr,— >: ofa 
Belwin, Ecor Noma, 


Bard of Avon, aiakeupears, bora 


and burned at Stratford-upon-Aron (1564- 
1616). Also called the Sard of af 
Tins. 


turd of Ayrshire, Robert Burna, s 
native of Ayrshire (1759-1796), 

Hard of Hope, ‘Thomas Campbell, author 
of The Pleasures of Hope (1777-1844). 








BARLAHAM AND JOSAPHAT. 


when he wrote home to say 
to nurse “* Barkia is willin'.” Clara 


(Mer of sir John Falstaff, 
one, e'en othe tide."— 
Henry V. 20. 3, 1 


pants ond Xeineiiak: the 

heroes and title of a minnesong, the 

object of which was to show the tnumph 
Christi . - 


over 
who converts Josa- 
sich on iusliam peiesees This “ Iny " was 


mmensely po in the Middle Ages, 
and has been Gorislated into every Euro- 
pean language.—Rudolf of Ems (a min- 


pesinger, thirteenth century). 


paxtey (i y Cinema Satees Chiefly 


ing rum and pra 
ing on the on drinking Tam um 
Expectations (1860). 


Barleycorn (Sir Joka), Malt-liquor 
personified. His neighbours vowed that 
air John should die, so they hired raffians 
to ** boas 3 him with ploughs and bury 
him ; i@ they did, and afterwards 
“combed him with harrows and thrust 
clods on his head,” but did not kill him. 
Then with hooks and sickles they “ cut 
his legs off at the knees,” bound him like 
a thief, and left him “‘ to wither with the 
wind,” but hedied not. They now “rent 
him to the heart,” and having ‘‘ mowed 
him in a mow," sent two bravos to beat 
him with clubs, and they beat him so sore 
that “all his flesh fell from hia bones,” 
but vet he died not. Toa kiln they next 
heuled him, and burnt him like ao 
martyr, but he survived the burning. 
They crushed him between two stones, 
bot killed him oot. Sir John bore no 
malice for this ill-usage, but did his best 
to cheer the flagging epirits even of his 


song, from the Fnalish 
Wana Uacier 1641), is nerally 
ascribed to Robert Burns, but all that the 
Seutch poet did was slightly to alter 
parts of it. The same may be anid of 


“Anld lang 5 " Ca’ the Yowes,” 
“My Heart ww ir for Somebody,” 
“Green grow the Rashes, ©!" and 
several other songs, set down to the credit 
of Horna, 
Barlow 


the favourite archer of 
Henry VIII. 


He was jocosely created 


——sEDp 


BARN-BUENERS. 
by the merry monarch “ Duke of Shore- 
ditch,” and his two companions * iis 
of Islington” and “‘ Earl of Pancras. 


Barlow (Billy), a jester, who fancied 
himeelf a “mighty potentate.” He was 
wel] known in the east of Londo 
died in Whitechapel workhouse. ‘bones 
of his sayings were really witty, and some 
of his attitudes truly farcical. 


Bar’mecide Feast, a mere dream- 


| feast, an illusion, a castle in the air. 


Schacabac “the hare-lipped,” a man in the 
greatest distress, one day called on the 
rich Barmecide, who in merry jest asked 
him to dine with him. Barmecide first 
washed in hypothetical water, Schacabac 
followed his example. Barmecide then 
nded to eat of a daintiea, 
bac did the same, and praised them 
highly, and so the “‘ feast " went on to the 
close. The story anys Barmecide was so 
pleased that Schacabac had the 
sense and temper to enter into the 
irit of e joke without resentment, 
at he inland in a real banquet, at 
which Schacabac was a welcome guest,— 
Arabian Niyits (“‘The Barber's Sixth 
Brother"). 


Barnabas (&.), a disciple of Gama- 
liel, cousin of St. Mark, and fellow- 
labourer with St. Paul. He was mar- 
tyred at Salamis, a.m. 63. St. Burnabas’ 

y is June 11.—<Acts iv. 86, 37. 


Barnaby ( Widow), the title and chief 
character of a novel by Mrs. Trollope 
(1839), The widow is a vulgar, pre- 
tentious husband-hunter, wholly without 
principle, Widow Karnahy has a sequel 
called The Barnabys in America or The 
Wide Married, a satire on America and 
the Americans (1840). 


Barnaby Rudge, a half-witted lad, 
whose companion is © raven. He wae 
allured into joining the Gordon rioters. 
—C. Dickens, Barnaby Rudge (1841). 
(See Mudge.) 


Barnacle, brother of old Nicholas 
Cockney, and guardian of Priscilla 
Tomboy of the West Indies. Barnacle is 
a tradesman of the old school, who thinks 
the foppery and extravagance of the 
“Cockney " school inconsistent w th pros- 
perous shop-keeping. Though brisyue 
and even ill-mannered, he has g@od senpe 
and good ens of character.— The 

cto from Bickerstaif's Love m 


Barr-Burners, ultra-adicals of 





BARNES, 


—————— 


destictives, who barnt the barns ia 
order to reform social and politi 
These wiseacres were about as 

the Dutchman who bumt down pens 
to get rid of the rats which infested them. 


Barnes (1 sy/.), 
Mannering, at W ood burne.—Sir W. Scott, 
(ruy Moannering (time, George IL}. 


Barney, 4 repulsive Jew, who waited 
on the customers at the low publie-houss 
frequented by Fagin and his aaac 
lumey always spoke throogh his pose.— 
t. Dickens, liter Tuist (1837), 


Barn'stable (JLicutenunt), in the 
British navy, in love with Kate Plowden, 
niece of colonel Howard of New York. 
The alliance not being approved af, Kate 
ia removed from England to Amer 
but Darngtable goes to Amenea to die 
cover her retreat. In this he succeeds, 
but Leing seized as o spy, is commanded 
by colonel Howard to be hung to the 
yardarm of an American frigate called the 
Alucrity. Scarcely¥ is the young man led 
off, when the colonel is informed that 
Barnstable is his own aon, and he arrives 
at the scene of execution just in time to 
eave him. Of course after this he marnes 
the lady of his affection.—E. Fitrball, 
The Puot (a burletta), 

Barnwell (Ge amrye ), the chief character 


—— et ae T dts 





servant to eolenel | 











of I 
i. 
4). 


Barsad (Jodn), alias Solomon Pros, 


a. epy. 


ae coe pred Bene eg bee 
thereforn, dnister,—C [ickeos, A Fails af Pew Cicien, i 
ie Lee. 


Barsis'’s (Seton), in the Guardian, 
the lasix of the story called The Momk, by 
M. G. Lewis (1796). 


Barston, alias captam Fenwicke, s 
jesuit and secret gg? yar of tha 
countess of Derby.—Sir W. Seott, Peneri 


of the Peak (time, (Charles 11.). 





BARTOLE 81 





tified his treasures, and at the accusation 
of his own wife was tried and executed,— 
Dean Milman, Firio (1815). 

Bartoldo, same as Bertoldo (q. w.). 

Bartoli (in French Jorthole, better 
known, however, by the Latin form of the 
name, Surtolus) was the most famous 
master of the dialectical school of jurists 
(1313-1356). He was born at Sasso Fer- 
rata in Italy, and was professor of Civil 
Law at the University of Perugia. His 
reputation was at one time immense, and 
bie works were quoted as authority in 
nearly every European court. Hence the 


French proverb, applied to a well-read | 


lawyer, He knows hia “ Barthole” aswell 
es a Cordelier hia “ Dormi” (an anony- 
mous compilation of sermons for the use 
of the Cordelier monks). Another com- 
moo French expression, Résolu comme 
Barthole (“ aa decided as Barthole"’), isa 
sort of punning allusion to his Hesoln- 
tiowes Bartoli,a work in which the knot- 
tiest questions are solved with ex cathe- 
dra peremptoriness. 


Bar’tolus, a covetous lawyer, hus- 
tend of Amaran’ta.—Deaumont and 
Fletcher, The Sounish Curate (1022). 


Barton (Sir Andrew), a Scotch sea- 
Officer, who had obtained in 1411 letters 
of marjue for himself and hia two sons, 
ts make reprisals upon the subjects of 
Portugal. 
at which the earl of Surrey presided, was 
daily pestered by complaints from British 
merchants and sailors against Barton, and 
at lust it wae decided to put him down. 
Two ships were, therefore, placed under 
the commands of sir Thomas and sir 
Edward Howard, an engayement took 
place, and sir Andrew Durton was slain, 

ravely fighting. .A ballad in two parts, 
called “Sir Andrew Darton,” ia inserted 
in Percy's Religques, 11. ii, 12. 

Baruch. JPites, done, avez-vous Iu 
Barwch? Said when a person puta an 
unexpected question, or makes a startling 
preposal, Tt arose thus: Lafontaine 
went one day with Racine to tenebra, and 
was given a Bible, He turned at random 
to the ** Praver of the Jews," in Baruch, 
and was ao struck with it that be eaid 


aloud to Racine, “ Dites, done, whe was — 


this Harach? Why, do you know, man, 


he was a fine genius ;" and fer some days | 
afterwards the first question he asked his | 
Mons., avez-vous | 


fnends was, Dites, 
és Baruch? 


oa 


‘be council-board of England, | 





BASIL. 


Barzil'lai (3 sy/.), the duke of 
Ormond, a friend and firm adherent of 
Charles II. As Barzillai assisted David 
when he was expelled by Absalom frem 
his kingdom, so Ormond assisted Charles 
Il. when be waa in exile. 

Baraillal, crowned with honours and with years, . . « 

Porn nomen and Sits ran 

den, dieiom ond Ackdioplel, L 

Basa-Andre, the wild woman, s 
sorceress, married to Lasa-Jaun, o sort of 
vampire. Basa-Andre sometimes is sp 
sort of land mermaid (a beautiful lad 





who sits ina cave combing her locks wil 


a golden comb). She hates church bella. 


(See Basa-J aun.) 


Basa-J aun, a wood-sprite, married tc 
Basa-Andre, a sorceress. Both hated the 
sound of church bells, Three brothers 
and their sister agreed to serve him, but 
the wood-sprite used to suck blood from 
the finger of the girl, and the brothere 
resolved to kill him, This they accom- 
plished. The Fiass-Andre induced the 

irl to put a tooth into each of the foot- 

atha of her brothers, and, lo! they be- 
came oxen. The girl crossing a bridge 
saw linsa-Andre, and snid if she did no* 
restore her brothera she would put her 
into a red-hot oven, so Hasa-Andre told 
the pirl to give each brother three blows 
on the back with a hazel wand, and on so 
doing they were restored to their proper 
forms.—Rev.W. Webster, Basque Levens, 
49 (1877). 


Bashful Man (7he), 2 comic drama 
by W. T. Moncrieff. Edward Blush- 
ington, © young man just come into a 
large fortune, is a0 bashful and shy that 
life is a misery to him. He dines at 
Friendly Hall, and makes all sorts of 
ridiculous blunders. Tis college chum, 
Frank Friendly, semia word to suy that 
he and his sister Durwh, with sir Thomas 
and lady Friendly, will dine with him at 
Blushington House. After a few glasses 
of wine, Edward loses his shyness, 
makes a long speech, and becomea the 
accepted suitor of Dinah Friendly. 


Basil, the blacksmith of Grand Pré, 
in Acadia (now Nota Scotia), and father 
of Gabriel the betrothed of Evangeline, 
When the colony was driven into exile in 
1713) by Gere I1., Basil settled in 
Louisiana, and greatly prospered ; but his 
aon led a wandering life, looking for 
Evangeline, aod died in Pennsylvania 
of the plague.—Lougfellow, Evangeline 
(1849), 

Qe 








BASTARD. 


BATTLE OF WARTBERG. 





bably so, Teucer certainly, and Darius 
gloved in the surname of Nothos. 
Bastard (The), in English history is 
Wiliam [i natural son of easant itl 
mother was a peasant 
of Falaiso. 


Bastille. The prisoner who had 
been confined in the Bastille for sixty-one 
years was A. M. Dussault, who was in- 
carcerated by cardinal Richelieu. 


Bat. In South Staffordshire that 
slaty coal which will not burn, but which 
lies 7 in the fire till it becomes red hot, is 
called ‘“‘bat;” hence the expression, 


Bata‘via, Holland or the Nether- 
lands. So called from the Bata’vians, 
a Celtic tribe, which dwelt there. 

- veld of care, 
Batavia rushes forth ; and as vwoe? 
Ou sovading skates, oent ways, 
The thea gig land is ‘maddened al) wi 
Thomson, Seasons ('' Winter.” 1728). . 
qoutes (1 syl.), a soldier in the army of 
V., under sir Thomas Erpingham. 
He is introduced with Court and 
Williams as sentinels before the English 
eamp at Agincourt, and the king un- 
known comes to them during the watch, 
and holds with them a conversation 
moses Neary the impending battle.—Shake- 
V. act iv. sc. 1 (1599). 


patos Frank), the friend of Whittle. 
A man of good plain sense, who tries to 
laugh the old beau out of his folly.— 
Garrick, The Irish Widow (1757). 


Bates (Charley), erally called 
“« Master Bates,” one of Fagin’s ‘‘ pupils,” 
training to be a pickpocket. e is 
always laughing uproariously, and is 
almost equal in artifice and adroitness 
to “The Artful er” himself. 

C. ar Oliver Twist (1837). 


ath, called y the Romans Aque 
baste (‘‘ waters of the sun”), and by the 
Saxons Achamunanum (‘‘city of the 
sick”). 


Bath ( King of), Richard Nash, generally 
ealled ‘ash, master of the cere- 
monies for fifteen vears in that fashion- 
eble city (1674-1761). 


Bath (The Maid of), Miss Linley, a 
beautiful and accomplished singer, w: 
married Richard B. Sheridan, the states- 
man and dramatist. 


Bath (The Wife of), one of the 

Eastertury, travelling from Scuthwark te 
ucer’s 

Tales. e tells her tale in turn, an 

chooses ‘ Midas” for her subject (1888). 


Bath‘sheba, duchess of Portemouth, 
a favourite court lady of Charles II. As 
Bathsheba, the wife of Uri’ah, was 
criminally loved by David, so Louisa P. 
Keroual (duchess of Portsmouth) was 
criminally loved by Charlies IT. 
eee Oneries 11.), whom with reverence I name . 

bas embraces old. 
A bealom and Achiteptel, Ui. 

Battar (A)), t.c. the trenchant, one of 

Mahomet's swo 


Battle (The British Soldiers’), Inker- 
man, November 5, 1854. 


Battle of Barnet, 14th April, 1471, 
was certainly one of the most decisive 
ever fought, althou ch it finds no place 

‘ de- 
It closed for ever the 


amongst professor y’s list of 
cisive battles.” 

Age of Force, the potentiality of the 
barons, and opened the new era of trad 
literature, and public opinion. Flere fe 
Warwick, the ‘‘ king maker,” ‘‘ last of the 
barons ; ” and thenceforth ‘the king had 
no r, but king was fing, lords were 
ne peer, commons the people. 

Battle of Nations, the terrible 
conflict at Lei sic (October 18 and 19, 
1813) between apoleon and the Allies. 
Its issue was tbe efeat of Napoleon and 
the deliverance of Germany. It is called 
“the Battle of Nations” not only from 
the numbvcr engaged therein, but also 
from its being the champion battle of the 
nations of Europe. 


Battle of Prague, a piece of de 
scriptive music very popular in the first 
quarter of the nineteenth century. It 
was composed by Franz Kotzwara of 


Prague, born 1791. 


Battle of Wartberg (The), the 
annual contest of the minnesingers for 
the prize offered by Hermann mar- 
graf of Wartberg, near Gotha, in Ger- 
many, in the twelfth century. There is 
& minnesung so called, celebrating the 
famous contests of W alter von der ogel- 
weide and Wolfram von Eschenbach with 
Heinrich von Ofterdingen. Heinrich lost 
the furmer and won the latter. 





a ee 
ry 


their wish, and were converted into two 
trees before the temple.—Greek and Ro- 
man Mythology. 

Baul’die (2 syl.), stable- boy of 
Joshua Geddes the quaker W. Scott, 
Redgauntiet (time, rge III.). 

Baul'die (2 syl.), the old shepherd in 
the inteodin ction v) the story called The 
Black Dwarf, by sir W. tt (time, 
Anne). 

Bav‘iad (The), a satire by W. Gifford 
on the Della Cruscan school of poetry 

1794). It was followed in 1800 by The 
enad. The words ‘‘ Baviad” and 
“Maeviad” were suggested by Virgil, 
Edi, iii. 90, 91. 
Sophos etme 

Bavian Fool (The), one of the 
characters in the old morris dance. He 
wore a red cap faced with yellow, a 
yellow ‘‘ slabbering-bib.” a blue doublet, 
ted hose, and black shoes. He represents 
an overgrown baby, but was a tumbler, 
and mimicked the barking of a dog. The 
word Bavian is derived from davon, a 
“bib for a slabbering child” (see Cot- 

ve, French I[ictionary). In modern 
French bare means ‘‘drivel,” ‘‘slabbering,” 
and the verb baver ‘‘ to slabber,” but the 
bib is now called barette. (See Morris 
Daxcez.) 


Bavie’ca, the Cid’s horse. He sur- 
vived hia master two vears and a half, 
and was buried at Valencia. No one was 
ever allowed to mount him after the 
death of the Cid. 

Batie’ca [i.e. ** Booby}. When Rodri- 

was taken in his boyhood to choose a 
Forse, he passed over the best steeds, and 
selected a scrubby-looking colt. His 
godfather called the boy a booby [bavie- 
ca) for making such a silly choice, and 
the name was given to the horse. 

Ba'vius, any vile poet. 
Mavivs.) 

Qui Barviam pon odit, amet tua carmina. Mavi, 


Atque idem jungat vulpes, et mulgeat hircos. 
Virgil, Aol, Lil. 90, 92. 


Mey every Bavius bave hie Rafe atie? ui 

Pope, Prologue to the Satires. 
Bawtry. Like the saddler of Bawtry, 
who was hanged for leaving his siquor 
(Yorkshire Proverb). It was customary 
for criminals on their way to execution 
to stop at a certain tavern in York for a 
“* parting draught.” The saddler of Baw- 
try refused to accept the liquor, and was 


(See 








ee eee ee 


hanged, whereas if he had stopped a few 
minutes at the tavern his reprieve, which 
was on the road, would have arrived in 
time to save him. 


Ba’yard, Le chevalier sans peur et 
sans reproche (1476-1524). 

The British Bayard, sir Philip Sidney 
(1554-1584). 

The Polish Bayard, prince Joseph Poni- 
atowski (1763-1814). 

The Bayard of fndia, sir James Outram 
(1803-1868). So called by sir Charles 

apier. 


Ba'yard, a horse of incredible speed, 
belonging to the four sons of Aymon. 
If only one mounted, the horse was of 
the ordinary size, but increased in pro- 
portion as two or more mounted. ( ‘he 
word means “bright bay colour.”)— 
Villeneuve, Les Quatre-Filz-Aymon. 


Bayard, the steed of Fitz-James.—Sir 
W. Scott, Lady of the Lake, v. 18 (1810). 


Bayar’do, the famous steed of 
Rinaldo, which once belonged to Amadis 
of Gaul. It was found in a grotto by 
the wizard Malagigi, along with the 
sword Fusberta, both of which he gave 
to his cousin Rinaldo. 

His colour bay, and bence his name he drew— 
Bayardo called. A star of diver hue 
Emblazed his frout. 

Tasso, Rinaldo, i 220 (2462) 

Bayes (1 sy/.), the chief character of 
Lhe Kehearsal, a farce by George Villiers, 
duke of Buckingham (1671). Bayes is 
represented as greedy of applause, im- 
patient of censure, meanly obsequiovs. 
regardless of plot, and only anxious for 
claptrap. The character is meant for 
John Dryden. 

*,” C. Dibdin, in his History of th3 
Stage, states that Mrs. Mountford played 
‘* Bayes” ‘“‘ with more variety than had 
ever been thrown into the part before.” 


No species of novel-writing exposes Itself to a severert 
trial. since it not only resigns all Bayes’ pretensions "' to 
elevate the imagination.” rai] but ipiaces {ts productions 
within the range of [gen or. —Ancyc. Brit. 
Art. ** Romance” 


Dead men may rise again, like Bayes 
troops, or the suruyes in the Fantocini. In 
the farce above referred to a battle is 
fought between fvot-soldiers and great 
hubby-horses. At last Drawcansir kills 
all on both sides. Smith then asks Bayes 
“* How are they to go off?” ‘As they 
came on,” says Bayes, ‘‘ upon their les.” 
Whereupon the dead men all jump up alive 
again. 

*,* This revival of life is imitated by 





BEARNAIS. 87 





BEAUJEU. 





thick, and broad. Sir Hugh Will 
was allowed to take it inte Aide Niecaned 

Tie Bearded Master. Soe'ratée was 60 
ealied by Persius (n.c. 468-399). 

Handsome Beard, Baldwin IV. earl 
“Jota the Bearded, Yoh Mayo, th 

ohn Mayo, the 
German painter, whose beard touched the 
groend when he stood upright. 

ee earnais ais (Le), Henri IV. of France, 

his native province, Le 
Beara (18 (1558-1610). 

Be’atrice (8 sy!.), a child eight vears 

old, to wn whom Dente at th the age of nine 
attached. She was the 
cee Mee olco Portina’ri, a rich citizen 
Beatrice married Simoni « de 

and died before she was 24 

old old (ise6-1290). Danté married 
ma i, and his marriage was a mont 
one. His love for Beatrice re- 
after her decease. She was the 
fountain of his poetic inspiration, and in 
his Diwina Commedia he makes her his 

guide through paradise. 
Dant#’s Beatrice and Milton's Eve 
Were not drawn from their spouses you conceive. 
Byron, Dou Juan, tii. 10 (1830). 

(Milton, who married Mary Powell, of 
Oxfordshire, was as unfortunate in his 
choice as Danté.) 

Beatrice, wife of Ludov’ico Sforza, 

Beatrice, daughter of Ferdinando ki 
of Naples sister of Leonora duchess o 
Ferrara, and wife of Mathias Corvi‘nus 
of Hungary. 

Beatrice, uiece of Leonato governor of 
Messina, lively and light hearted, affec- 
tionate and impulsive. wilful 
she is not not wear’ though volatile she 
is not unfeeling, though teeming with 
wit and gaiety she is affectionate and 
energetic. At firet she dislikes Bene- 
dick, and thinks him a flippant conceited 
coxcomb ; but overhearing a conversation 
between her cousin Hero and her gentle- 
woman, in which Hero bewails that 
Beatrice should trifle with such deep love 
as that of Benedick, and should scom 
po true and good 8 tleman, she cries, 
‘‘ Sits the wind thus? then farewell con- 
tempt. Benedick, love on ; [ will requite 
gou.” This conversation of Hero's was 
® mere ruse, but Benedick had been 
canght by a similar trick played by 
Clandio. The resuli was they sincerely 
loved each other, and were married.— 


dean. Much Ade about Nothing 


Faocit’y impersonations are nature iteelf 
* Imogen,” “ Beatrice,” all 


Beatrice Cenci, The Beautiful Par- 
ricide (q.v.). 


Beatrice D’Este, canonized at 


Rome. 

Beau Brummell, Geo Bryan 
Brummel (1778-1840). ee 

Beau Clark, a billiard-maker at the 
beginning the nineteenth century. 
He was 8 ed ‘‘The Beau,” assumed the 
name of Beauclerc, and paid his addresses 
to a proteyée of lord Fife. 


Beau Fielding, called ‘‘ Handsome 
Fielding "by Char es II., by a play on 
his name, which was Hendrome ieldi 
He died in Scotland Yard. 


Beau Hewitt was the original of sir 
George Etherege’s ‘‘sir Fopling Flutter,” 
in the comedy called The Man of Mode 
or Sir Fopling Flutter (1676). 


Beau Nash, Richard Nash, called 
also ‘‘King of Bath;” a Welsh entleman, 
who for fifteen years nataged the 
rooms of Bath, and conducted the ‘pala 
with unparalleled splendour and decorum. 
To his old age he sank into poverty (1674- 
1761) 


Beau d’Orsay (Ze), father of count 
d’ Orsay, whom Byron calls ‘‘ Jeune Cu- 
pidon.” 


Beau Seant, the Templars’ banner, 
half white and half blac ; the white 
signified that the Templars were good to 
Christians, the black tbat they were evil 
to infidels. 

of eet Tibbs, in Goldsmith's Citizen 

the World, a dandy noted for his 
dnery, vanity, and poverty. 


Beauclerk, Henry I. king of Eng- 
land (1068, 1100-1135). 


Beaufort, the lover of Maria Wilding, 
whom he ultimately marries.—A. 
phy, The Citizen (a farce). 


Beaujeu (Mons. le chevalier -de), 
keeper of a gambling-house to which 
Dalgarno takes Nig eL—_Sir W. Scott, 
Fortunes of Niget (time, James I.). 


Beaujeu (Mons. le comte de), a French 
officer in the army of the Chevalier 
Charles Edward, the Pretender.—Sir W. 
Scott, Waverley (time, George II.). 





BEAUMAINS, _ 88 
Beaumains (‘' diy hands”), a niek- | 





name which sir hey (Arthur's steward) 
gaveto Gareth when he was kitehendrud 
inthe palace, “ He had the largest 1 
that ever man saw.” 
of king Lot and Margawse (king Arthur's 
sister). His brothers were air Gaw’aln 
sir Acravain, and sir Gahers, Mo 
was his bhalf-brother.—Sit T, Malory, 
History of Prince Arthur, L 120 (1470), 

*,* His achievements are given a ) 
the name “Gareth ™ (7.0. | 

Tennyson, in his Gareth amd Dy ' 
makes cir Kay tauntingly address La 
lot thus, referring to Gareth ; 

Falr and fine, forsmoth | 
Er Pine-fnce, cir Fair} ude! Bot ee en to 


Thet thine ofp ingress, Lanoolot some fine dlp, 
TL evelee Lee pecpt, 


Be it remembered that Kay himself 
called Gareth ‘* Geaumain" from the extra- 
ordinary size of the lad's handa; hut the 
tannt pot into the mouth of Kay by the 
poet indicates that the lad prided himaelf 
on hig “‘fine™ face and “fair” hands, 
which is not the case. If “fair hands" 
is) «fo 6ctransiation of this nickname, it 
should be ‘‘fine hands,” which bears the 
equivocal acnse of bay and beautiful. 

Beau'manoir (Sir Luees), Grand- 
Master of the Knights Templars.—Sir 
W. Scott, /ranAoe (time, Richard I.). 


Beaupre [fo-prray'"l, son of inde 


Gareth was the son — 





wos called, | : Pas 3 
cousin, Bed'reddin’ Hassan, son of Nour’ 
eddin’ All, vizier of 

Nuyhts (“ Nowreddin Adi,” ete,). 


Beauty and the Beast v Betie 
wt la Béte), from Lea Contes | 
Mae, Villenenvre (1740), the most beau 
tiful of all nursery tales. Ay and 
er, woman saved her Fates by pang 
bh f in the power of a frightful 
kind-hearted monster, whose respectful 
affection and melancholy overcame ber 
aversion to his ugliness, and she consented 
to become his bride. Being thus freed 
from enchantment, the monster assumed 
hia proper form and became a young and 
handsome prince. 

Beauty but Skin-deep, This ex- 


neescinn arenrein Balok Vannine'a fled hn 


a 





BED OF WARE. 











BEE. 





wo part of the pla ; all we are told is 
that she returns to the roof of her brother, 
er Charles Freeman (1707). 

Bed of Ware, a large bed, capable of 
holding twelve persons. Tradition as- 
signs it to Warwick, the “ king maker." 

Bede (Cuthbert), the Rev. Edward 


Bradley, author of Adventures of Mr. 
oe ‘Grom, an Oxford Fredvnan 
1857). 


Bedegrain (Castle of), in Sherwood. 
It was « royal castle, belonging to king 
Arthur. 

Bed’er (“ the full moon"), son of Gul- 
na're (5 ayl.), the young king of Persia. 
As his mother was an under-sea princess, 
he was enabled to live under water a5 
wellas on land. Beder was a young man 
of handsome person, quick parts, agree- 
able manners, and amiable disposition. 
He fell in love with Giauha'ré, daughter 
of the king of Samandal, the most power- 
fal of the under-sea empires, bot Giau- 
haré changed him into a white bird with 
ted beak and red legs. After various 
airentores, Beder resumed his human 
forms and married Ginuhar’. — Arabian 
Awhits (*' Beder and Giauharé"). 

Bed’er or Bedr, a valley noted for 
the victory gained by Mahomet, in which 
“he was assisted by 3000 angels led by 
Gabriel mounted on his horse Haiz'um.” 
—Sale’s Avrun, 

Bed'ivere (Sir) or Bed'iver, king 
Arthur’s butler and a knight of the Round 
Table. He was the last of Arthur's 
knights, and was sent by the dying king 
te throw his sword Excalibur into the 
mer. Being cast In, it was caught by 
an arm “‘clethed in white samite,” and 
drawn into the stream.—Tennyson, Morte 
df Arthur 

Tennyson's Morte d Arthur is a very 
eloee and in many parts a verbal render- 
ing of the same tale in sir Thomas 
Malorr's Morte d' Arthur, iii. 168 (1470). 

Bedlam Beggars, lunatics or mad 
wen belonging to Bethlehem Hospital. 
This institution was designed for six 
lunatics, but in 1641 the number admitted 
was forty-four, and applications were so 
numerous that many were dismissed half 
eured. These “ticket-of-leave" men 
wacd to wander about as vagrants, singing 
‘*mad songs" and dressed in the oddest 
Ganrer, to excite compassion. 


oe er etching sang drone de 4 byt ch 
Gea!) all | a. on ee plnitee etpck in emviry places 
tm hie naked Seeb, expecially lo his arms, which paine be 





gladly pots himesalfe to only to make pou believe be lon 
Of bhiawita He calls binwelfe... * Poors Tom,” and comp 


Bed'ouins|[ Sed’. winz), nomadictribes 
of Arabia. In common parlance, “the 
homeless street poor.” Thus gutter. 


children are called ‘‘ Bedouins." 


Bed'reddin’ Has'san of Baso'ra, 


| aon of Nour'eddin’ Ali grand vizier of 


Basora, and nephew to Schema’eddin’ 


Mohammed vizier of pt. His beauty 
was transcendent and his talents of the 
first order. When 20 years old his 


father died, and the sultan, angry with 
him for keeping from court, confiscated 
all his dz, and would have seized 
Bedreddin if he had not made his escape. 


| During sleep he was conveyed by fairies 
| to Cairo, and substituted for an ugly 


groom (Hunchback) to whom his cousin, 
the Queen of Beauty, was to have been mar- 
ned. Next day he was carried off by the 
same means to Damascus, where he lived 


| for ten years as a pastry-cook. Search 


was made for him, and the search party, 
halting outside the city of Damascus, 
sent for some cheese-cakes, When the 
cheese-cokes arrived, the widow of Nour- 
eddin declared that they must have been 
made by ber son, for no one else knew 
the seerct of making them, and that she 
herself had taught it him. On hearing 
this, the vigier ordered Hedreddin to le 
seized, ‘for making cheese-cakes with- 
out pepper,” and the joke was carried on 
till the purty arrived at Cairo, when the 
pastry-cook prince was re-united to his 
wife, the Queen of Teauty.— Arabian 
Nights (** Noureddin Ali,” ete.), 
_Bedwin (airs), housekeeper to Mh. 
Brownlow. <A kind, motherly soul, who 
loves Oliver ‘I'wist most dearly. —C, 
Dickens, Giiter Zwist (1837). 


Bee, The ancient Egyptiana sym- 
bolized their kings under this emblem. 
The Avney indicated the reward they gave 
to the meritorious, and the sfiny the 
punishment they awarded to the uan- 
worthy. 

As the Egyptians used by bees 
To gipres Wielr anclent Piolen’ea. 
B. Butler, Mudidrea, WL 

*.* In the empire of France the roval 
mantle und standard were thickly sown 
with golden bees inatead of ‘Louis 


flowers.” In the tomb of Chil’demc more 





BEGGAR'S OPERA. 


saw ber in the streets of London, and 
subsequently, after diligent search, dis- 
covered her in the Queen's Arma inn at 
Romford. It turned owt that her father 
Albert was brother to lord Woodville, 
and Wilford was his truant son, so that 
Bees was his cousin. Queen Elizabeth 
senctioned their nuptials, and took them 
under her own conduct. (See Biinp.) 


epee Opera (Tihz), by Ga 
727). The beggar is captain Mecheath, 
For plot, see MacurATH.) 


Beggar's Petition (Tks), a poem 
ote ev. Thomas Mogs, minister of 
ierly Hill and Trentham, in Stafford- 
shire. It was given to Mr, Smart, the 
inter, of Wolverhampton.—(rentieman' s 

agasiwne, Lxx. 41. 

Beguines [ /ej-wins), the earliest of 
al) lay prot or wien united for 
religious purposes. Hrabant says the 
order received its name from St. 
daughter of Pepin, who founded it at 
Namur, in 696; but it is more likely to 
be derived from fe Aéque (‘‘the Stam- 
merer™); and if so, it was founded at 
Lieye, in 1180. 

Beh‘ram, captain cf the ship which 
was to convey prince Assad to the 
“mountain of fire,” where he was to be 
offered up in sacrifice. The ship being 
driven on the shores of queen Maryia'na’s 
kingdom, Assad became her slave, but 
was recaptured by BPehram's crew, and 
carried back to the ship, The queen 
next day gave the ship chase, Assad 
was thrown overboard, and swam to the 
city whence he started. Hehram also 
was drifted to the same place, Here the 
captain fell in with the prince, and re- 
conducted him to the oriyinal dungeon. 
Bosta’na, a daughter of the old fire- 
worshipper, taking pity on the prince, 
released him; and, at the end, Assad 
married queen Mariana, Bostana married 
prince Amyiad (half-brother of Assad), 
and Bebra, renouncing his religion, 
became a mussulman, and entered the 
service of Amiad, who Lbeeame king of 
the city.—Aradumn Niyhts (‘‘ Amgiad and 
Assad"). 


Bela’rius, a sohbleman and soldier in 
the army of bym’veline (3 syl.) king of 
Britain. Two villains having sworn to 


the king that he was “confederate with | 
the Romans," he was banished, and for | 


twenty years lived in a cave; but he 
stole away the two infant sons of the 
king cut of revenyve. Their names were 


91 





~- 


BELERMA. 





| Guide’rius and Arviragus. When these 


two princes were grown to manhood, a 
battle was fought between the Romans 
and Britons, in which Cymbeline was 


| made prisoner; but Belarius coming to 


the rescue, the king was liberated and 
the Roman general in turn was made 
Belarius was now reconciled to 
Cymbeline, and presenting to him the 
two young men, told their story ; where- 
upon they were publicly acknowledged 
to be the sons of Cymbeline and princes 
of the realm.—Shakespeare, Cymbelina 
(1605). 


Beleh (Sir Joly), uncle of Olivia 
the rich countess of Illyria, He is a 
reckless roisterer of the old school, and 
a friend of sir Andrew Ague-cheek.— 
Shakespeare, Twelfth Night (1614). 


Belcour, «a foundling adopted by Mr. 
Beleour, a rich Jamaica merchant, who 
at death left him all his property. He 
was in truth the son of Mr. Stockwell, 
the clerk of HRelcour, senior, who clan- 
destinely married his master’s daughter, 


| and afterwards became a wealthy mer- 


chant. On the death of old Belcour, the 
young man came to England as the guest 
of his unknown father, fell in love with 
Miss Dudley, and married ber. He was 
hot-blooded, impulsive, high-spirited, and 
generous, his very faults serving aa a 
foil to his noble qualities ; ever erring and 
repenting, offending and atoning for hia 
offences.—Cumberland, The West Jndian 
(1771). 

Be'led, one of the six Wise Men of 
the East, lead by the guiding star to 
Jesus. He was a king, who gave to his 
enemy who sought to dethrone him half 
of his kingdom, and thus turned a foe 
into a fast friend,—Klopstock, The Mes- 
siaA, v. (1747). 

Belen, the mont St. Michael, m 
Normandy. Here nine druidesses used 
to sell arrowa to sailors ‘‘ to charm away 
storms.” ‘These arrows had to be dis- 


| charged by a young man 25 years old. 


Belerma, the lady whom Durandarté 
served for seven years as a knight-errant 
and peer of France. When, at length, 
he died at Roncesvallés, be prayed his 
cousin Montesi'nos to carry his heart to 
Delerma, 

1 aaw o proceedon of beaotiful damsels In moorning, 
with white turbans on their bewda In the rear cate mo 
hay with « vell ao long that it reached the ground: her 
arte wad (wice a largo aa the largest of the others 5 
her eyebrows were Joined, ber noe war rather Gat, 


ber mouth wide, bet ber lips of s vermilion colour. Ha 





- ‘BELESES, 


teeth were Uhinset and Irregular, menah white 
afl ghee cerried In ber haved «a One lop F 
pheert Mooteiow informed me Thal aly ng 
Belerma —Cervantes, Jon ipuiente, IL, 16 /DELS) 

Bele'ses (3 sy/.), « Chaldean sooth- 
enyer and Assyrian a who told 
Arba’ces (3 sy/.) governor of Me’dia, that 
he would one day sit om the throne of 
Nineveh and Assyria. His pro . 
came troe, and Heles®s was rewnrded 
with the government of Babylon,—Byton, 
Sardanapal we (1819). 


Belfab orac, the palace of the em- 
peror of Lilliput, in the middle of 

lildendo, the metropolis of the empire.— 
Swift, Gulliver's Travels (" Voyage to 
Lilliput,” 1726). 

Belfield (/rothers). The elder 
brother is a squire in Cormwall, betrothed 
to Sophia (daughter of sir Benjamin 
Dove), who loves his younger brother 
ob. The younger brother is driven 
to sen by the cruelty of the squire, but on 


his return renews his acquaintance with | 


Sophia, He is informed of her unwilling 
betrothal to the elder 
aiready marred to Violetta, but parted 
from her. Violetta returns home in the 
eame ship as Bob lelfield, becomes 
reconciled te her husband, and the 
¥Younger brother marries Sophia.—Rich. 
Cumberland, The Mrothers (1769). 


Rael'ford. a friend of l.avelace (9 evl.\. 





brother, who is | 





(An English abridgment of this m- 
mance was published in 1673.) 


Belinda, niece and companion of 
lady John Brute, Young, pretty, full of 
fun, and possessed of £10,000. Heart- 
free marries her.—Vanbrugh, The /'ro- 
voked Wife (1697). 








BELINDA. 





Relin'da, the heroine of Miss Edge- 
worth’s novel of the same name. The 
object of the tale is to make the reader 
feel what ia good, and pursue it (1803). 

Belm'da, a lodging-house servant-cirl, 
very poor, very dirty, very kind-hearted, 
and shrewd in observation. She married, 
and Mr. Middlewick the butter-man set 
her hosband op in business in the butter 
line. —H. J. Byron, Our Boys (1875). 


Beline (2 #y/.), second wife of Argan 
the malade umaymaire, and step-mother 
of Angelioue whom sehe hates, Heline 

tends te lowe Argan devotedly, 
umours him in all his whims, calls him 
“mon fils,” and makes him believe that 
if he were to die it would be the death of 
her. Toinette induces Argan to put these 
tpecious protestations to the test by pre- 
tending to be dead. He does go, and 
when Beline enters the room, instead of 
deploring her loss, she cries in ecstasy : 

“(eo cel em soll loot) Me voli doivrée fun prands 
foie |... de goal eervelt-ll wr la terre! Un homie 
fseeneecls ib togt le mromedle, malpropre, dégoitant.. . 
et, leet, crechdiot ftoijours,, mines éepril, 
eaouyeut, de masvaise huumeur, fatiguant sine crue bes 
qa. 6 promdleni jour et mult perrentes ot raleta™ (iti. 1a). 
She then proceeds to ransack the room 
for bonds, leases, and money ; bat Argan 
starts up and tells her she has taught him 
one useful lesson for life at any rate.— 
Molitre, La Malads Imajinaire (1673). 


Belisa'rius, the greatest of Justi- 
nian's generals. Being accused of treason, 
he was deprived of all his property, and 
bis eves were put out. In this state he 
retired to Constantinople, where he lived 
br begging. The story says he fastened 
a lubel to his hat, containing these worda, 
“Gre on obdlua to poor old Lelisarius.” 
Marmonte] has written a tale called 
Felisaire. which has helped to perpetuate 
these fables, onginally invented by 
Teetzca or Crsios, a Greek poet, born at 
Constantinople in 1120, 


Bélise (2 sy/.), sister of Philaminte 
(3 syl.), aod, like her, a femme srrante. 
She imagines that every one is in love 
with her.—Moli-re, Lea Fenuncs Savantes 
(1672). 


! 


Bell (Adam), a wild, north-country | 


eotlaw, noted, like Robin Hood, for his 
skillinarcherv. IJlis place of residence 
was Enelewood Forest, near Carlisle ; and 
bis two comrades were Clym of the 
Clough [Clement of the Clif] and Wil- 
liam of Cloudesly (3 syf). William 
was maried, but the other two were not. 
When William was captured at Carlisle 


BELL-THE-CAT. 








and was led to execution, Adam and 


Clym rescued him, and all three went te 
London to crave pardon of the king, 
which, at the queen's intercession, was 
" Ancgp them. They then showed the 

ing specimens of their skill in archery, 
and the king was so well pleased that he 
made William a ‘‘ gentleman of fe,” and 
the two others Phileas of the bed-cham- 
ber.—Percy, Keliques (‘‘ Adam _ Bell.” 
etc.), I. ii. 1. 


Hell (Bessy), Bessy Bell and Mary 
Gray were the daughters of two country 
gentlemen near Perth. When the plague 

roke owt in 1666 they built for them- 
selves a bower in a very romantic spot 
called Burn Hraes, to which they retired, 
and were supplied with food, etc., by a 
young man who was in love with both of 
them. The young man caught the plague, 
communicated it to the two young ladies, 
and all three died.—Allan Ramsay, Bessy 
Bell and Mary Gray (a ballad). 


Bell. Anne, Charlotte, and Emily 
Bronte assumed the noms de plume of 
Acton, Currer, and Ellis Bell (first halt 
of the nineteenth century). Currer Bell 
or Bronte married the Rev. Arthur Bell 
Nicholls, She was the author of Jane 

It will be observed that the initial 
letter of both names is in every case pre- 
zerved throughout—Acton (Anne), Currer 
(Charlotte), Zits (Emily), and Bell 
(Bronte), 


Sell (Peter), the subject of a “tale in 
verse" by Wordsworth. Shelley wrote a 
rie uc upon it, entitled Peter Bell the 

fia! 


Bell Battle (The). The casus bells 
was this Have the local magistrates 
power to allow parish bells to be rung at 
their discretion, or is the right vested in 
the parish clergyman? This squabble 
was carned on with great animosity in 
the parish of Paisley in 1832. The 
clergyman, John Macnaughton, brought 
the «juestion before the local council, 
which gave it in favour of the magis- 
trates ; hut the court of sessions gave it 
the other way, and when the magistrates 
granted a permit for the bells to be rung, 
the court issued an interdict against them. 

For nearly two years the Paisley bell battle was fought 
with the fercest real. It was the subject of every political 
mevine. the theme of every board. the gossip at tea- 
table: ond dipimer parties, and children delighted In 
chalk lig ot ite wolls ** Please to ring the bell” (May 14 
LES, fo Beg IL, LASS). —Newspaper paragruph, 


Bell-the-Cat, sobriquet of Archibald 








(1849). 
Bel'lenden (Lady sorgavet » an old 
Tory lady, ork of the re Til- 


ms Edith 7 
of lady ret, betrothed 
Evendale, of the king's army, but in love 
with Morton (a leader of the covenanters, 
and the hero of the novel). After the 
death of lord Evendale, who is shot by 
Balfour, Edith marries Morton, and this 
terminates the tale.—Sir W. Scott, Old 
Mortality (time, Charles II.). 


Beller’ophon, son of Glancos. A 
kind of Joseph, who refused the amorous 
solicitations of Antéa, wife of Protos (2 
ey.) king of Argos. Antea accused him 

attempting to dishonour her, and 
Pretos sent him into Lycia with letters 
desiring his destruction. Accordingly, 
he was set several enterprises full of 
hazard, which, however, he surmounted. 
In later life he tried to mount up to 
heaven on the winged horse Pegasus, but 
fell, and wandered about the Alei‘an 
plains till he died.—Homer, Jliad, vi. 


Aa once 
Bellerophon . . . dlemounted in the Aleian field . . . 
Milton, Parcdise Lost, vil. 17, ete. (1085). 

Letters of Bellerophon, a treacherous 
letter, pretending to recommend the 
Genrer bat in reality denouncing him, 
like the letter sent by Prevtos to the king 
ef Lycia, requesting him to kill the 
bearer (Bellerophon). 

Pavsa'w1as the Spartan, in his treason- 
eble correspondence with Xerxes, sent 
eereral such letters. At last the bearer be- 
thought that none of the persons sent ever 
Seturned, and opening the letter found it 





BELLICENT. 


contained directions for his own death, 
It was shown to the ephors, and Panganias 
in alarm fied to a temple, where he waa 
starved to death. 
De Lacy, being sent by king John 
inst De Courcy, was informed by two 
the servants their master always 
laid aside his armour on Good Friday, 
De Lacy made his attack on that day, 
and sent De Courcy prisoner to London. 
The two servanta now asked De Lacy for 
rp pene from Ireland and England, and 

Lacy gave them Letters of Hellerophon 
exhorting ‘all to whom these = 





| come to spit on the faces of the be 


drive them forth as hounds, and use them 
as it behoved the betrayers of their masters 
to be treated."—Cameos of English ffis- 
tory (‘* Conquest of Ireland"). 


Beller’ophon (4 syl.), the English man- 
of-war under the command of captain 
Maitland. After the battle of Water- 
loo Bonaparte set out for Rocheford, in- 
tending to seek re in America, but 
the Aellerophon being in sight and escape 
impossible, he made a virtue of necessity 
by surrendering himself, and was forth- 
with conveyed to England. 


Belle'rus, a Cornish giant, whence 
vr ss air a called Bellerium. 
ilten in his /yeldas suggests the p 
sibility that Edward King, who athe 
drowned at sea, might be sleeping near 
Bellerium or the Land's End, on mount 
St. Michael, the spot where the archangel 
appeared, and ordered a church to be 

built there. 
Where the creai vision of che guarded 
Looks fwanls Kamanes [ela Custis) 
Milton, Lpriaias, LOO, ote. (eS, 
Belleur’, companion of Pinac and 
Mirmbel (‘‘the wild goose"), of stout 
blunt temper; in love with Rosalu’ra 
a daughter of Nantolet,—Heaumont an 
Fletcher, Tie Wild Goose Chase (1652). 


Bellicent, daughter of Gorlois lord of 
Tintag’i] and his wife Ygerné or Iyerna. 


| Asthe widow married Utherthe pendragon, 


and was then the mother of king Arthur, it 
follows that Bellicent was half-sister of 
Arthor, Tennyson in Garcth and Lynetto 


says that Bellicent was the wife of Lot 


king of Orkney, and mother of Gaw'ain 
and Mordred, but this is not in accordance 
either with the chronicle or the history for 
Geoffrey in his Chronicle says that Lot's 
wife was Anne, the sister (not half- 
sister) of Arthur (vili, 20, 21), and ap 





——— $$ ee 


BELLIN. 
[ Malory, in his History of Prince 
dgtiur, sare : 
i al wehded 
RS rr; od aha py Bain that 
Largan le Fay wus [4 rthur's] third siete 0G LS ; 3 


Bel'lin, the ram, in the beast-eple of 
Reynard the For, The werd gieana 
* gentleness” (1498), 


Bellingham, » man about town,— 
TD), Boucicaalt, After Dark, 


| waa engaged for two jean at St James’) Theatre, 
Scting “Chari Burfare ~ ee | — © ell rates on, 


£ cunple of hanire! might, ond | ae emcee 


men for “" Mercitic™ at the Ly 
Bel'lisant, sister of king. 6 ies off 

France, and wife of Alex 

of Constantinople. Being 


she took refuge in a vest fos where 


she became the mother of Valentime and | 


Orson.— Valentine aad Orson. 


Bellmont (Sir William), father of | 


George Hellmont ; tyrannjeal, 

and headstrong. He imagines tt is the 
duty of a son to submit to his father’s will, 
even in the matter of matrimony. 

Georyé Bellmont, eon of sir William, in 
love with Clariasa, his friend Beverley's 
sister; but his father demands of him to 
marry Belinda Blandford, the troth-plight 
wife of Beverley. Ultimately all comes 
ncht.—A. Murphy, AZ m tie Wrong 
fishy 


pedo aa 


infidelity, the emperor banished her, and | 











cette | 
As, Goacter New 
proved thot his brother was already 


| married, the young lady willingly aban- 


doned the elder for the younger brother, 
—R. Cumberland, The Erothers (1769). 


Belmour (Fdward), a gay yo 
man about town.—Congreve, The ‘Ob 
Bachelor (1693). 


jelmeur (Mrs.). a widow of “ agreeshia 








BELTED WILL. 


BENBOW. 





women, cold, passionless, correct, and 
minded. Amoret is the “ Venns,” 


pn Oregons Peer wrampaee 2% whore 


iL iv. (1590), 
~ = Belphasbé is queen Elizabeth. 


Belten'ebros (4 sy/.). 
Gaul assumes the name when he retires to 
after receiving a cruel 


Belvide'ra, da 
senator of Venice. 
the sea by Jaffer, eloped with him, and 
married him, Her father then discarded 


her, and her husband joined the con- | 


iracy of Pierre to murder the senators. 
He tal tells Belvidern of the plot, and 
Helvidera, in order to anve her father, per- 
suades Jaffier to reveal the plot to Priuli, 
if he will promise a general free pardon. 
Priuli gives the required promise, but 
notwithstanding, all the conspirators, ex- 
cept Jaffer, are cundemned to death by 
torture. Jaffier stabs Pierre to save him 
from the dishonour of the wheel, and 
then kills himself. Belvidera goes mad 
and dies.— Otway, Venice Preserved (1682). 

We here to cheek our tears, although well aware that 
@e “ Delviders © with whoe sorrows we syropathiae la no 
@ther than war own inimitble Mra —air W. 
Gem, The oe 





neler Whois. neal | be 





| (The speak in 
| rapture of Mrs, Porter's “‘ Belvidera.” = 


obtained for Mrs. Barry the title 
Miss O'Neill and Miss Helen 
siedt werd both reat in the same part.) 
Ben [Lecenp], sir Sampson | Legend's 
younger son, a sailor and a MD ! seeewit,” 
in whose composition there enters no part 
of the conventional generosity and roe 


| frankness of a British tar, His _ 
rase is ‘‘ D've see," and his 
* Mesa !"—W, Lowe = Love 


ae — agree with the follow- 


What 
i—tnit a sae Bl of 
al) the = mals OF © enilor’s Barner it contempt of 
money, ity t wormen, with 
homme | never think the 


nerer been performed since to any 


Ben Israel (Nathan) or Nathan 
ben Samuel, the physician and friend 


C Dibdin co ot Fat Sredereeey 1 peel gg nt the part aa 
perfection,” 


of Isaac the Jew.—Sir Scott, Jranhoe 
(time, Richard I.). 
Ben Joc’hanan, in the satire of 


Absalom and Achitophel, by Dryden and 
Tate, is meant for the Rev. Samuel John- 
gon, who suffered much persecution for 
his defence of the right of private judg- 
ment. 

Let Metron, nay, Jet bell prodoce a man 
Bo made for mischief og Hen Jechanae. 


Adew of homble parentage wos he. 
By trade a ST TO EN ONO mace Ue 


Benai'ah (8 syl.), in Absalom and 
Achitophel, ia meant for general Geo 
Edward Sackville. As Benaiah, captain 
of David's guard, adhered to Solomon 
against Adonijah, so general Sackville 
adhered to the duke of York against the 


| prince of Orange (1590-1652) 


Hot oan Froud when pale sora Tie, 
wben public storma were 
OW stenly sou ah hn 


ro high. 
d Tate, part iL 
Benas'kar or Bennaskar, & 
wealthy inerchant and magician of Delhi, 
—James Ridley, Tales of the G 
(" History of Mahoud,” tale vii., 1751). 


Benbow (Admiral). In an engaged 
ment with the French near St. Martha on 
the Spanish coast in 1701, admired 
Benbow had hia legs and thighs shivered 
into splinters by chain-shot, but supported 
in a wooden frame he remained on the 
Lenka till morning, when Lu Caasi 


red 
Similar acta of hervism are recorded of 
H 





BENVOLIO. 


Ben to Mont and 
Sones 5 testy, litigious fellow, 

about goat's wool or 

‘3 world gaara Mercutio says to him, 

“Thou hast quarrelled with a man for 

oa e street, Decause Sc hath 

beri og that hath lain asleep 


wan” [ac i 98 » eee 


pores (2 mt the kingdom of 
kng Ban, father of sir Launcelot. It 
was situate in that extremel shadowy 
locality designated aa “beyond seas," but 
whether it was Brittany or Utopia, “non 
hostrum tantas componere lites." 

Probably it was Brittany, because it 
was across the and was in 
France. Ban king of Benwicke was 
brother of Bors king of Gaul.—Sir T. 
Malory, History of Prince Arthur, i. 8 
(1470). 

Beowulf, the name of an Anglo- | 
Saxon epic poem of the sixth century. It 
received its name from Beowulf, who 
delivered Hrothgar king of Denmark from 
the monster Grendel. This Grendel was 
half monster and half man, and night 
after t stole into the king’s palace 
ealled Heorot, and slew sometimes as 
many as thirty of the sleepers at a time. 
Beowulf put himself at the head of a 
mixed band of warriors, went against the 
monster and slew it. This epic is very 
Ossianie in style, is full of beauties, and 
is most interesting.—AemMWe's Ti ransiation. 

(A. D. Wackerbarth published in 1849 
4 metrical translation of this Anglo- 
Saxon poem, of considerable merit.) 

Beppo. Byron's Beppo is the husband 
of Laure, a Venetian | He waa taken 
captive in Troy, ae | Turk, joined a 
hand of pirates, grew rich, and after 
several years returned to his native land, 
He found his wife at a carnival ball with 
@ carafiero, made himeelf known to her. 
and they lived together again ns man sand 
wife. ppo 1s a contraction of Guiseppe, 
as Joe is of Joseph, 1820.) 


Beppo, in Fra Diavola, an opera b 
Auber (1836). * my 


Beralde (2 syl. ), brother of Argan the 
malade imayinaire. He tells Argan that 
his doctors will confess this much, that 
the cure of a pene is a very minor con- 
sideration with them, “! foute Cercellence 
d@ icur art consiste en ge ape | gali- 
watas, on un specieur babil 
pence tect rent np raisons, ot dea 

ets.” Again he says, | 


———= ep 


BERENICE, 


« presque tous les hommes meurent de lew 
remédes et non pas de leurs maladies." He 
then proves that Argan’s wife is a mere 
hypocrite, while his daughter is a true- 
hearted, loving ag and he makes the 
invalid join in the dancing and singi 

vided for his cure, =Bcliare: 
maginaire (1673). 

Berch'ta (“‘the white lady"), mer st 
southern Germany, answering to Hulda 
(‘the gracious lady" *) of northern Ger- 
many. After the introdnction of Uhria- 
tianity, Berchta lost her first estate and 
lapsed into a bogie. 

Goddess Scoala 


Berecynthian 
hr is so called from mount Be 
in Phrygia, where she waa hel in 
ort adoration. Sheis represented as 
crowned with turrets, and holding keys 


| in her hand. 
Her helmid bead 
With towers. 


Southey, Aoderiek, ef¢,, fi. (1514), 
| Bereoyn thian Hero (The), Midas 
king of Phrygia, en called from mount 
Berecyn’tus (4 sy/.), in Phrygia. 


Berenga'ria, queen-consort of 
Richard Coeur de Lion, introduced in The 
Talisman, a novel by sir W,. Scott 
(1825). Berengaria died 1230. 


Berenger (Sir Raymond), an old 
Norman warrior, living at the castle of 
Garde Doloureuse. 

The ludy yee Berenger, sir Ray- 
mond's antgs hter, betrothe to wir Hugo 
de Lacy. Sir Hugo cancels bis own 
betrothal in favour of his nephew (sir 
Damian de Lacy), who marries the lady 
Eveline “the betrothed."—Sir W. Scott, 
The Betrothed (time, Henry I1.). 


Bereni'ce (4 syl.), sister-wife of 
Ptolemy II], She vowed to sacrifice her 
hair to the gods if ber husband returned 
home the vanquisher of Asia. On his 
return, she suspended her hair in the 
temple of the war-god, but it was stolen 
the first night, and Conon of Samos told 
the king that the winds bad carried it to 
heaven, where it still forms the seven 
stars near the tail of Leo, called Coma 
Berenices. 

Pope, in his Rape of the Lock, has 
berrowed this fable to account for ig 
lock of hair cut from Helinda’s head, the 
restoration of which the young lady 


insisted upon. 
Berenice (4 syl.), a Jewish pri 
daughter of Agrippa. She marned lierod 


aQance® 





——_— ee ~ ” 


Bernardo del Carpio, one of 
the most favourite subjecta of the old 
Cees minetrela. The other ty> were 

Qi and Lara's Seven /nfants. Ber- 
nardo del i0 was the person who 
assailed Or 

and finding him invulnerable, took 
him up in his arms and squeezed him to 
death, as Herenlés did Antw’os.—Cer- 
vantes, Don Quirofe, II. ii. 18 lege? 

*,° The only vulnerable part Or- 
lando was the sole of the foot. 


Bernesque Poetry, like lord By- 
ron’s ‘Don Jana, is a olbinse of satire, 
tragedy, comedy, serious thought, wit, 

ridicule. L. Pulci was the father of 
this class of rhyme (1432-1487), but 
Francesco Berni of Tuscany (1490-1537) 
so greatly excelled in it, that it is called 
Berneaque, from his name, 


Bernit‘ia with Dei'ra constituted 
Northumbria. Aernitia included West- 
moreland, |)urham, and part of Cumber- 
land. Dewa contained the other part of 
Cumberland, with Yorkshire and Lan- 
cashire. 

Two kinedors which had been with mvers| thrones an- 
walled. 


Bernitis hight the one, Dera [ate] th otther called. 
Drapton, Folyolbion, xvi. (1613). 


Ber’rathon, an island of Scandinavia, 


Berserk 
handed Starka’der and the benotifel 
Alfbil’dé. He was so called because he 
wore “no shirt of mail,” but went to 
battle unharnessed. He married the 
daughter of Swaf'urlam, and had twelve 
sons. ( Bar-syrce, Anglo-Saxon, “ bare of 
shirt ;” Scotch, ‘‘ bare-sark."') 

You my that | am a Bererker, ond. . . baremrk | go 
® morrow to the war, aml boresark | win that war or 
ée—Ker. C. Kingiley, Hereword the Wake, . 247. 

Bertha, the supposed daughter of 
Vandunke (2 sy/.) burgomaster of Hruges, 
and mistress of Gosawin a rich merchant 
of the same city. In reality, Bertha is 
the duke of Brabant's daughter Gertrude, 
and Goswin is Florez, ser of Gerrard king 
of the beggars.—heaumont and Fletcher, 
The Beggars’ Bush (1672). 

Ber'tha, daughter of Burkbard duke of 
the Alemanni, and wife of Kudolf II. 
king of Burgundy beyond Jura. She is 
presented on monuments of the time as 
sitting on her throne spinning. 

Youare the besuilful Bertha tha Sploner, the queen af 
Whe a: the rode on ber palfrey o'er valley, and imeadow, 
end moentsi i. 





BERNARDO DEL CARPIO. 101 


o (or Rowland) at Ronces- | 


| before the king. 





BERTOLDO. 
Bret wer spinning her thoved from the dist! fixed oo hep 
She was 0 thrifty and good that ber name passed Into @ 
Louginow, Lowrandto of Miles Sartie* vill 

Bertha, alias AGaTua, the betrothed of 
Hereward (3 sy/.), one of the emnaror’s 
Varangian guards. The novel concludes 
with Hereward enlisting under the banner 
of count Robert, and marrying Bertha.— 
Sir W. Scott, Count Holbert of Paris (time, 
Rufus). 

Ber'tha, the betrothed of John of Le7- 
den. When she went with her mother 4 
ask count Oberthal's permission to marry, 
the count resolved to make his pretty 
vassal his mistress, and confined her in 
his castle. She made her escape and 
went to Munster, intending to set fire to 
the palace of ‘“‘the prophet,” who, she 
thought, had caused the death of her 
lover. Being seized and brought before 
the prophet, she recognized in him her 
lover, and exclaiming, “I loved thee 
once, but now my love is turned to hate," 
stabbed herself and died.—Meyerbeer, / 
Prophéte (an opera, 1849). 

Berthe au Grand-Pied, mother of 
Charlemagne, 80 called from a club-foot. 

Bertolde (3 sy/.), the hero of a little 
jeu Vesprit in Italian prose by ./. C. Crocé 
(2 syl.). He is acomedian by profession, 





| whom nothing astonishes, Ile is as much 


er, grandson of the eight- | at his ease with kings and queens as with 


those of his own rank. Hence the phrase 
dmperturbable as Hertolde, meaning ‘never 
taken by surprise,” “never thrown off 
one's guard," ‘‘ never disconcerted.” 


Bertoldo (Prince), a knight of Malte, 
and brother of Roberto king of the two 
Sicilies. He is in love with Cami’ola 
“the maid of honour,” but could not 
marry without a dispensation from the 

“, While matters were at this criris, 
Bertalde laid siege to Sienna, and was 
taken prisoner, Camila paid his ransom, 
but before he was released the duchess 
Aurelia requested him to be bronght 
before her. Immediately the duchess saw 
him, she fell in love with kim, and 
offered him marrage, and Bertoldo, for- 

etfn) of Camiola, accepted the offer. 

he betrothed then presented themselves 
Here Comiola exposed 
the conduct of the knight; Roberto is 
indignant ; Aurelia rejects her Rance’ with 
scom: and Camiola takes the veil.— Mas- 
singer, The Maid of Honour (1607). 


Fertol'do, the chief character of & 
comic romance called Vita di Hertoldo, by 





BERTRAND. 
ef geod over evil.— Me , Roberto di 
Diasalo (an opera, 1831). 

Bertrand, a simpleton and a villain. 
He is the accomplice of Robert Macaire, 
alibertine of unblushing impudence, who 
sing without compunction.—Daumier, 
DL Auberge des Adrets. 

Bertrand du Gueslin, a romance 


of chivalry, reciting the adventures of | 


Charles V. 
Bertrand du Gueslin in prison. The 
ince of Wales went to visit his captive 
and asking him how he fared, 
the Frenchman i “Sir, I have 
heard the mice and the rats this many a 


day, but it is long since I heard the song of | 


birds,” sc. I have been long a captive 
and have not breathed the fresh air. 

The reply of Bertrand du Gueslin 

to mind that of Douglas, called 

sir James,” the companion 

Robert Bruce, ‘‘ It is better, 1 ween, 

hear the lark sing than the mouse 


E 


z 


sa 


cheep,” ¢.¢. It is better to keep the open 


field than to be shut up in a castle, 


persulpne (2 syl.), provost of Bruges, 
the son of a serf. his A erie and 
energy he became richest, most 
honoured, and most powerful man in 
Bruges. His arm was strong in fight, his 
wisdom swayed the council, his step was 
proad, and his eye untamed. He had one 
child, most dearly beloved, the bride of 
sir Bouchard, a knight of noble descent. 


Charles ‘“‘the Good,” earl of Flanders, | 


made a law (1127) that whoever married 
aserf should become a serf, and that serfs 
were serfs till manumission. By these 
absurd decrees Bertulphe the provost, his 
caughter Constance, and his knightly 
son-in-law were all serfs. The result was 
that the provost slew the earl and then 
himself, his daughter went mad and died, 
and Bouchard was slain in fight.—S. 
Knowles, The Provost of Brujes (1836). 


Ber’wine (2 syl.), the favourite 
attendant of lady Er’mengarde (3 sy/.) 
of RBaldringham, great-aunt of lad 
Eveline ‘‘the betrothed.”—Sir W. 
Beott, The Betrothed (time, Henry II.). 


Ber’yl Mol’ogzane (3 sy/.), the 
lady-love of George Geith. All beauty, 
love, and sunshine. She has a heart for 


evry one, is ready to help every one, and 
is by every one beloved, yet her lot is 
most pai y, and ends in an 


y unha 
early death.—F. G. Trafford (J. H. Rid- 
dell, George Geith. 


108 


| 








BETIQUE. 


Beso'nian (4), a scoundrel, From 
the Italian, bisognoso, ‘“‘a needy person, 
a beggar.” 

Proud lords do tumble from the towers of their high 
descents; and be trod under feat of every Inferior bea 
nlan.—Thomas Nash, Poennglese, Ady Supepli 





Bess (Good queen), Elizabeth (1533. 
1558-1603), 


Bess, the daughter of the “blind 
beggar of Bethnal Green," a lady by 
birth, a sylph for beauty, an angel for 
constancy and sweetness. She was loved 
to distractica by Wilford, and it turna 
out that he was the son of lord Wocd- 
ville, and Bess the daughter of lord 
Woodville's brother; so they were 
cousins. Queen Elizabeth sanctioned 
their nuptials, and took them under her 
own especial conduct.—S. Knowles, 7'he 
Beggar of Bethnal Green (1834). 


Bess o’ Bedlam, a female lunatic 
vagrant, the male lunatic vagrant being 
called a Jomo’ Bedlam, 


Bessus, governor of Bactria, wn 


| seized Dari‘us (after the battle of Arbe'la) 


and puthimtodeath. Arrian says, Alex- 
ander caused the nostrils of the regicide 
to be slit, and the tips of his ears to be 
cut off. The offender being then sent te 


| Ecbat’ina in chains, was put to death. 


Lol Beams, be that ermde with monierer’s koyfe 
And tray trou hart ageynet bis royal king, 
With bluddy bands bereft bile oasier’s life... 
What booted him hls fais wurped rages... 
Whee like a wretche ted In an iron chayue, 
He waa presents) by his chiefeat friende 
Unite the foes of him whom be had glaynet 
T. Gackrille, A presse fer Magiatra pie 
(*" The Complaynt,” 1B87). 


Bes'sus, a cowardly bragging captain, 
a sort of Bobadil or Vincent de la Rosa, 
Captain Gessus, having received a chal- 
lenge, wrote word back that he could not 


| accept the honour for thirteen wecks, as 


he had already 21? duels on hand, but he 
was much gneved he could not appoint 
an earlier day.—Heaumont and Fletcher, 
Kiny or No Ainy (1619). 

Rochester { despien for want of wit... 

Bo often dow he nlm, of seldom bit... 

Mean in each acilon, leud in every limb, 

Manners themselyes are mischievous In him ,. . 

(Ot) what & Begs has he always lived ! 

Dryden, Lody upon Satire, 


Bétique (2 sy!.) or Be'tica (Gr. 
na’da and Andalusia), so called from the 
river Betis (Guadalguier), Ado'am de- 
ecribes this part of Spain to Telem'achus 
as a veritable Utopia.—Feénelon, doom 


| tures de Télémayue, viii. (1700). 








105 BICKERTON. 





consent, the other two brothers retired 
from the field.—O' Brien, Cross Purposes, 

Be'vis, the horse of lord Marmion.— 
Sir W. Scott, Marmion (1808). 


Be'vis (Sir) of Southampton. rar i 
reproved his mother, w still 
for murdering his weet, she employed 


saber to kill him; but Saber only pr 
him on a desert land as a waif and he was 
brought op as a shephe Hearing that 


bis mother had eee "Mor’dure (2 yl. » | 


the adulterer, he forced his way into the 
marriage hall and struck at Mordure; but 
Moidure slipped aside, and escaped the 
blow. Bevis was now sent out of the 
country, and being sold to an vache 
was presented to the ting. Jos‘ian, the 
tingle bter, fell in love with him; 
rea were duly married, and Bevis was 
ted. Having slain the boar which 

e holes in the earth as big as that 
mote which Curtius sears, he was ap- 
pointed general of the Armenian forc 
subdued Brandamond of ascua, an 
made Damascus tributary to Armenia. 
Being sent, on a future occasion, as am- 
bassador to Damascus, he was thrust into 
& prison, where were two huge serpents ; 
these he slew, and then effected his 
exape. His next encounter was with 
Ascupart the giant, whom he made his 
slave. Lastly, he slew the great dragon 
of Colein, and then returned to England, 
where he was restored to his lands and 
titles. The French call him Sewves de 
Hoantone. —M. Drayton, Polyolbion, ii. 
(1612). 

The Sword of Bevis of Southampton 
wos Morglay, and his stee! Arundel. 
Both were fan him by his wife Josian, 
daughter of | the king of Armenia. 


Piss octnty in the satire of Absalom 
Achitophel, is meant for the marquis 
oT Worcester, afterwards duke of Beau- 
fort. As Bezaliel, the famous artificer, 
“was filled with the Spirit of God to 
devise excellent works in every kind of 
workmanship,” 60 on the a of 
Worcester— 


-. + 9 largely Nature heaped sarah, 
There scares remained for arts to give him more. 
Dryden and Tate, port iL 
Bezo’nian, a beggar, a rustic, 
(Italian, bisaynoso, “‘ necessitous,") 
The onpfinary tiliers of the earth, such os we coll Aue 
loam: in Free, pees; in Bpeline, heey 5 


Sted generally elowfabor.—Markham, Ang/ish /welanad- 
naam, 


Bian’ca, the younger daughter of 
Baptista of Pad’ua, as gootle and meek 


irritable. As it was not likel 
| would 


marry before her sister, 





as her sister Katherine was violent and 
any one 
Katherine “the shrew,” the 
father resolved that Bianca should not 
Petruchio mar- 
ried Aa ae hae then —— 
married Bianca. es amimng 
of the Shrew (1594). ese 

Bian'ca, a courtezan, the “almost” 
wife of Cassio. Iago, speaking of the 
lieutenant, says : 


, Florentine 
A fellow simest dama'd io o fale wife. 
Shakespeare, Ochello, act L wc. 1 (1811) 

Bian'ca, wife of Fazio. When her 
husband wantons with the marchioness 
Aldabella, Bianca, out of jealousy, ac- 
cuses him to the duke of Florence of 
being privy to the death of Bartol'do, 
an old miser. Fazio a condemned 
to death, Bianca repenta of her rashnesa, 
and tries to save her husband, but not 
succeeding, goes mad and dies.—Dean 
Milman, faz (1515). 


Bibbet (aster), secretary to major- 
general Harrison, one of the parliamentary 
commissioners.—Sir W. Scott, Woodstock 
(time, Commonwealth), 

Bibbie'na (//), cardinal Bernardo, 
who resided at bibbiena, in Tuscany. 
He was the author of Ca/andra, a comedy 
(1470-1620). 


le * Butler, alias Stephen 
Butler, ndfather of Reuben butler 
the presbyterian minister (married to 


Jeanie Deans).—Sir W. Scott, Heart of 
Midlothian (time, George II.). 


Bib'lis, a woman who fell in love 
with hee brother Caunus, and was 
changed into a fountain near Mile’tus,— 
Ovid, Het. ix, 662. 

Bot that (fountain) where Biblls dropt, too et light, 


Her tears and eclf may dare compere with U 
Poin, Fleicber, The Purple pany v. (LEER. 


Bib'ulus, a colleague of Julius Caesar, 
but a mere cipher in office; bence his 
name became a household word for a 
nonentity,. 

Bic'kerstaff (Jeeac), a peeudonym 
of dean Swift, assomed in the paper-war 
with Partridge, the SSmanadceaken and 
subsequently adopted by Steele in The 
Tatler, which was announced as edited 
by “ Isanc Bickerstaff, Esq., astrologer.” 

Bickerton rps landlady of the 
Seven Stars inn of York, where Jeanie 
Deane stops on her way to London, 





BID ME DISCOURSE, 








whither she is ia a plead for her 
sister's pardon.—Sir 
Midlothian (time, George mm ). 


Bid Me Discourse . .. The words 
of thia celebrated song ame taken from 
Saakespeare's poem called Venus and 
Adonis, 25. Masic by Bishop, 


Bid'denden Maids (The), two 
sisters named Marv and Flizabeth Chulk- 


hurst, born at Biddenden in 1100, They 
were joined together by the 1 Lders 
and hips, and lived to the ape of 4, 
Some sav that it was Mary and Eliza- 


beth Chulkhurst who left twenty acres 


of land to the poor of Biddendem, Thix 
tenement is called “ Bread and Cheese 
Land,” because the rent denved from 
it ia distributed on Easter Sanlay in 
doles of bread and cheese, Haletead 
says, in his //istory of Kent, that it wie 
the gift of two maidens named | 

and not of the Biddenden Maida. 


Biddy, servant 


aunt, who kept an ‘ 


to Wopsle’s great 
‘educational institu- 


tion." A good, honest girl, who falls in 
love with Pip, was loved by Dolye 
Orlick, but married Joe Gargery.—U. 


Dickens, Great Lrpectations (1860). 
Biddy [Bellair) (Wiss), ‘* Misa in 

her teens," in love with captain Loveit. 

She was promised in marriage by her 


Hoart of | 





Geieratewn (time, perp Se 
Bi-forked Letter of the 
HF So a U), which oe a 


Fi tort dato ha an 
Lomgiellvw, Fike (ee (prehetiel 

Bi'frost, the bigs which spans 
heaven and earth. The minbow is this 
Wridge, and its eolours are attribated to 
the precions stones which bested it— 
Scmlmoenan Myth, 

Big-en‘dians |The), a hypothetical 
religious party of a 9 ae who made it 
a matter of “faith” to break their eggs 
at the “big end.” Those who broke 
them at the other end were conaideped 
heretics, and called JLittle-eudians.— 
Dean Swift, Gulliver's Trawels (1726 








10? BIRD SINGING TO A MONK. 





BILBO. 
Bilbo, a 8 blade noted for its 
flexibility, and so called from Bilba’o, 


where at one time the best blades were 
made, 


Bilboes (2 syi.), a bar of iron with 
feiters annexed to it, by which mutinous 
tailors were at one time linked together. 
seme of the bilboes taken ne me 

panish Armada are preserved in 
British Museum. They are so called not 
because ‘were first made at Bilba’o, in 
m the entanglements of the 
tiver on which Bilbao stands. These 
“entanglementa™ are called The Bilboes. 
Beaumont and Fletcher compare the mar- 


Klage knot to bilboes. 
Bil’dai (2 syl. and the 
tutelar ae enaatan wath er ihe apostle, 


tir aot wealthy parents aod b ht 
im great luxury.—Klopstock, Jhe 
Manali iti. (1748). 


yy ‘ (Josh.). A. W. Shaw go 
tigns His Book of Sayings (1866), 
ae (3 syl.). Beling was 
8 fmend of '* Brennus” the Gauly who 
owned a wharf called DBeling's-gate. 
Geoffrey of Monmouth derives the word 
from Belin, a mythical king of the 


ancient Gritons, who “' built a gate there, 
ac, 400" (1142). 


Billy Barlow, a merry Andrew, so 
ealled from o semi-idiot, who fancied 
himself “a potentate.” He was 
well aon in the east of London, and 
died in Whitechapel workhouse. Some 
of his sayings were really witty, and 
some of his attitudes truly farcical. 


Billy Black, the conundrum-maker, 
—The Hundred-pound Note. 

When Keeley Fiack” at Chebme- 
for be sdrancrad to the highs at the close of the 

esi eid, * Pve one more, and this ls a gee an. yy a 
Cieiemfiond Theatre like « half-moon? Dye give it upt 
Bececee it is never full “—Aeourds 


af a Stage Veteran, 

Bimater ('‘fwo-motier"). Bacchos 
was so called becanse at the death of his 
mother during gestation, Jupiter put the 
fetus into his own thigh for the rest of 
the time, when the infant Bacchus waa 
duly brought forth. 

Bimbister (Afarjery), the old Ran- 
selman's spouse,—Sir WwW. Scott, The 
Pirate (time, William II.). 


ee te nee], a fabulous island, 
the Haha'ma yroup, 
ua containing ae fuuntain possessed of 


the power of youth. This 
island was an object po bom search by 


the Spanish navigator Juan Ponce de 
Leon (1460-1521). 


Bind'loose (Join), sheriffa clerk 
and banker at Marchthorn.—Sir W 
St, Ronan's Well (time, George III.). 


| biahop Tatts (Bishop of), of), generally « a 


a re Mes he invited a ae to rape ‘tenn 
on a certain day, under the plea of dis- 
tributing corn to them; but when the 
barn was crowded he locked the doot 
and set fire to the building; for which 
iniquity he was himself devoured by an 
army of mice or rats. Tlis castle is the 


-Mouse-tower on the 


They ahenet devour ma with iden, 


Binks (Sir Bingo), a fox-hun 
baronet, and visitor at the Spa. wi: 

Lady Binks, wife of sir "Bi » bot 
before marriage Miss 
rigg. Visitor at the Sp 
band.—Sir W. Scott, 


¥- 
with her hus 
. Ronan's Well 


(time, George III.). 


Bi'on, the rhetorician, noted for his 
acrimonious and sharp sayings. 
Bionie sermonibus et sale nlgra. 
Horace, Apdet. IL 3, 60. 
- Biondel'lo, one of the servanta of 
Lucentio the future busband of Bianca 
(sister of “the shrew"). His fellow- 
servant is Tra'nio.—Shakespeare, Jamming 
of the Shrew (1594). 


Birch (Harvey), a prominent cha- 
racter in Zhe Spy, a novel by J. F 
Cooper. 


Birch'over Lane (London), 
called from Hirchover, the builder, whe 
owned the houses there. 


Bird (Tiz Little Green), of the frozen 
regions, which could reveal every secret 
and impart information of events past, 
present, or to come. Prince Chery went 
in search of it, ao did his two cousina, 
Brightsun and Felix ; last of all Fairstar, 
who succeeded in obtaini x it, and libe- 
rating the princes who had failed in 
their attempts. — Comtesse D'Aunoy, 
Fairy Tules (‘‘ Princess Chery," 1682). 

This tale is a mere reproduction of 
‘The Two Sisters,” the last tale of the 
Arainan Nights, in which the bird is 
ealled ‘‘ Bulbul-hezar, the talking bird.” 


Bird Singing to a Monk. The 
monk was Felix,—Longfellow, 
Lejend, ii, 








BIRON. 108 


BLACK AGNES, 


oe EE 





Biron (Harriet), the object of sir 
Charles Grandison's affections. 
Cee worvkd et Duleines del Toboss to Miss Biron ms 
orn hee 
er, on the Story of Dali ond Derathil-joous, 
Bic ger It was lord Thurlow who 
ed high birth “the accident of an 

peries 


Birtha, the motherless daughter and 
enly child of As’ on the Lombard 
philosopher. In spring she ered 
Liussoms for her father’s still, in autumn 
berries, and in summer flowers. She fell 
in love with duke Gondibert, whose 
wounds she assisted her father to heal. 
Birtha, ‘in love unpractised and unread,” 
is the bean-ideal of innocence and purity 
of mind. Gondibert had just plighted 
his love to her when he was summoned to 
court, for king Aribert had proclaimed 
him his successor and future son-in-law. 
Gondibert assured Birtha he would 


remain true to her, and gave her an | 


emerald ring which he told her would 

lose ita lustre if he proved untrue. Here 

the tale breaks off, and as it was never 

a the sequel ig not known.—Sir 
W. Davenant, Grondibert (died 1668). 


Bise, a wind prevalent in those 
valleys of Savoy which open to the sea. 
It eepecially affects the nervous system, 


Biser’ta, formerly called U'tica, in 
Africa. The Saracens passed from 
Biserta to Spain, and Charlemagne in 
800 undertook a war against the Spanish 
Saracens. The Spanish historians assert 
that he was routed at Fontarabia (a 
strong town in Biscay); but the French 
maintain that he was victorious, although 


they allow that the rear of his army waa | 


cut to pieces. 
O+ whom Mieerts arnt from Afric shore, 
When Chariemain with all bls peerage fell 
By Fontarahia 
Milton, Paradise Lost, |. 585 (1605), 
Bishop. Burnt milk is called by 
Tusser ‘milk that the bishop doth ban.” 
Tyndale says when milk or porridge is 
burnt ‘* we saye the bishope hath put his 
fote in the potte," and explains it thus, 
“the bishopes burn whom they lust.” 


Bishops. The seven who refused 
to read the declaration of indulgence 
sboliahved by James I]. and were by 
fim ith prisonesd for recusancy, were arch- 
bishop Sancroft (Cunterdury), bishops 
Liovd (St. Aso Puy Turner (£ly), Kew 
Bath and Wells), V White (Peterborough), 
ke (Chichester), Trelawney (Bristol), 





Being tried, the were “all accmuitted acrruitted 
(June, 1688). if 


Bishop Middleham, who was 
always declaiming against ardent drinks, 
and advocating water as a beverage 
killed himself by secret intoxication. 


Bisto'nians, the a peeacians, so called 
from Biston (son of Mars), who bui? 
vag nia on lake Bis’tonia. 


the Bistonian race. a maddentag tam, 
Exalt aod rorel ou ine Thraciom pate 
Satine, i 


Bit'elas (3 wt) sister of Fairliinb, 
and daughter of Rukvnaw the wpe = 
tt beaat-<pic called Reynard the 

1498 


ote pe Remark (A). Near'chos 
ordered Ze'no the philosopher to be 
rg to death ina mortar. When he 
af precy some time, he told 

Nearchos had an important com- 
munication to make to him, but as the 
tyrant bent over the mortar to hear what 
he had to say, Zeno bit off his ear. 


| Hence the proverb, A remark more biting 


thun Zeno's. 


Bit'tlebrains (ford), friend of 
sir William Ashton, lord-keeper of Scot- 
land. 

Lady Fittlebrains, wife of the above 
lord.—Sir W. Seott, Bride of Lammer- 

moor (time, William ITI.). 


Bit'zer, light porter in Bounderby’s 
bank at Coketown. He was educated at 
M‘Choakumehild’s ‘practical school,” 
and became a general spy and informer. 
Bitzer finds out the robbery of the bank, 
and discuvers the perpetrator to be Tom 
i (son of Thomas Gradygrind, 

, M.P.), informs against him, and 
gets romoted to his place.-—C. Dickens, 
Times (1854). 


Bizarre [/e.zar’], the friend of 
Orian'a, for ever coquetting and sparring 
with Duretete [ Dure.tait], and placing 
him in awkward predicaments.—G. Far- 
quhar, The Jnconstant (1702). 


Mice Farren's lant performances were ‘* Bizarre,” March 
i i7wT, aml “Luly Toute” on the 28th.—Memoire o° 
Elizabeth Cointen af Geriy (Lop 


Black ‘nes, the countess of 
March, noted for ber defence of Dunbar 
during the war which Edward III. main- 
tained in Scotland (1353-1338). 


Bhe ket wo otir in tower and trench, 
Thai brawilog, belst rows Scottish wench, 
Came | early, camo | late, 

I found Black Agnes at the gate. 


Blr Walter Senate cays: “The countess was called ‘ hncd 











BLACK RIVER. 111 BLADUD. 
Shi falis into the general error: Blackguards (Victor H 
rley soldiers ae fen ron, mene 


Our dhied Edward... and his breve son... 
la bis black armour. 
Bdcsard the Bleek Prines, iv. 1 (1640). 


Black River or Arna’na, of Africa, 
so called from the quantity of black earth 
brought down by it during the rains. 
Thus earth is deposited on the surface of 
the country in the overflow of the Nile, 
and hence the Atbara is regarded as the 
“ dark mother of Egypt.” 


Greeks M Be ole") Py hee 
7 : i itable ”), ei 
the Seythians on ite coast were 


to na was after- 
wardscalled Kurxinus (‘‘hospitable”) when 
the Greeks themselves became masters of 
it, The Turks called it The Black Sea, 
cther a return to the former name 
Axinus,” or from the abounding black 
roe: oe 


Black Xhuraday, the name giren 
in the colony of Victoria, Australia, 
to Thureday, February 6, 1851, when 
the most terrible bush fire known in the 
annals of the colony occurred. It raged 
over an immense area. One writer in the 
newspapers of the time said that he rode at 
headlong speed for miles, with fire 
raging on each side of his route. The 
heat was felt far out at sea, and many 
birds fell dead on the decks of coasting 
vessels. The destruction of animal life 
and farming stock in this conflagration 
was enormous. 


Blacks (The), an Italian faction of the 
fourteenth century. The Guelphs of 
Florence were divided into the Blacks 
who wished to open their to Charles 
de Valois, and the Whites who o 
him. Danté the poet was a ‘‘ White,” 
and as the ‘ Blacks” were the pre- 
dominant party, he wan exiled in 1302, 
and during his exile wrote his immortal 
poem, the Divina Commedia. 


_Black’acre (Widow), a masculine, 


litigio pettifoggin eadstrong wo- 
tien? — Wycherly, The Plain Dealer 
c ). 


Blackchester (The countess of), 
ester of lord Dalgarno.—Sir W. Scott, 
Fortunes of Nigel (time, James I.). 

Blackfriar’s Bridge (London), was 
mee ‘alled ‘‘ Pitt’s Bndge.” This was 
the bridge built by R. Mylne in 1780, but 
the .ame never found favour with the 
general pablic. 


discipline to wear their red coats (which 
were lined with black) inside pat. The 

rench equivalent, he says, is Blaqueurs. 
—L' Homine i Rit, IT. fi 1. 

It is quite impossible to believe this to 
he the true derivation of the word. 
Other suggestions will be found in the 
Dictionary of Phrase and Fable. 


Blackless (Zomalin), a soldier in the 
guard of Richard Coeur de Lion.—Sir W. 
ott, Zhe Talisman (time, Richard I.). 


Blackmantle (Rernard), Charles 
Molloy Westmacott, author of The English 


Spy (1826). 


Black’pool (Stephen), a power-loom 
weaver in Bounderby’s mh at Coketown. 
He had a knitted brow and pondering 
expression of face, was a man of the 
strictest integrity, refused to join the 
strike, and was turned out of the mill. 
When Tom Gradgrind robbed the bank of 
$150, he threw suspicion on Stephen 
Black pool, and while Stephen was hasten- 
ing to Cokeburn to vindicate himself he 
fell into a shaft, known as “the Hell 
Shaft,” and, although rescued, died on 
a litter. Stephen Blackpool loved 
Rachael, one of the hands, but had 
already a drunken, worthless wife.—C. 
Dickens, Hard Times (1854). 


Blacksmith (The Flemish), Quentin 
Matasys, the Dutch painter (1460-1529), 


Blacksmith ( The Learned), Elihu Burritt, 
United States (1811- —). 


Blacksmith’s Daughter (The), 
lock and key. 

Place it ander the care of the blacksmith's daughter.— 
C. Dickens, Tale af Two Cities (1859). 

Blackwood’s Magasine. The 
vignette on the wrapper of this m ine 
is meant for George Buchanan, the Scotch 
historian and poet (1506-1582). He is 
the representative of Scottish literature 
generally. 

The m 


ine originated in 1817 with 
William 


lackwood of Edinburgh, pub- 
lisher. 


Blad’derskate (Lord) and lord 
Kaimes, the two judges in Peter Peeble’s 
lawsuit.—Sir W. Scott, Redyauntlet 
‘time, George III.). 


Bla’dud, father of king Lear. Geof- 
frey of Monmouth says that Bladud 
attempting to fly, fell on the temple of 


Apollo, and was dashed to pieces. Hence 








BLATHERS AND DUFF. 128 


BLIND BEGGAR. 





opinion. The beast had 100 tongues and a 
sting. Sir Artegal muzzled the monster, 
and d it to Fatry-l 
it broke looee and regal its liberty. 
Subsequently sir Cal’idore 8 syl.) went 
in quest of it.—Spenser, 'y Queen, 
v. and vis (1596). 

o,° ‘* Mrs. randy is the modern 
name of Spenser's “‘ Blatant Beast.” 


Bleeding-heart Yard (London). 
So called because it was the place where 
the devil cast the bleeding heart of lady 
Hatton (wife of the dancing chancellor), 
after he had torn it out of her body with 
his claws.—Dr. Mackay, E. 

Popular Delusions. 

Blefus’ca, an island mbabited by 
pizmies. It was situated north-east of 
alli from which it was & 
chase! 800 yards wide Beant Swift, 
Gulliver's Travels (1726). 

acti res ty inane Mle 
Sarat oer hotes 

Creed and Bolingbroke to Paria.—Gir W. Boot. 

Bleise (1 sy/.) of Northumberland, 
lustorian of king Arthur's period. 


j 


rH 
A 
i 
i 
g 
E 
E 
E 
5 
q 
z 


He 
rif 
rt 
lf 
iy 
4 

an 


Hl 
t 
+ 

: 


Blem’myes (3 sy/.), a people of 
Africa, fabled to have no head, but 


having eyes and mouth in the breast. 

(See Gaona.) 

aatammyie treduntar capits abease, ore et oculis pectori 
Cresias speaks of a people of India 

near the G sine cervice, 08 in 


Bienheim aniels. The Oxford 
electors are 80 led, because for many 


years they obediently supported any candi- 


date which the duke of Marlborough ecom- 
throceh them to return. Lockhart broke 

ro is custom by telli e le 
the fable of the Vog and the Wolf. ‘The 
dog, it will be remembe had on his 
neck the marks of his collar, and the 
wolf said he preferred liberty. 

(The race of the little dog called the 
Blenheim spaniel, has been preserved ever 
since Blenheim House was built for the 
dake of Marlborough in 1704.) 


Blet’son (Master Joshua), one of the 
three parliamentary commissioners sent 
by Cromwell with a warrant to leave the 
royal | to the Lee family.—Sir W. 
oodstock (time, Commonwealth). 


Bli’fil, a noted character in Fielding’s 
novel entitled The History of Tom Jones, 
a Foundliny (1750). 

*,* Blifil is the original of Sheridan’s 
‘* Joseph Surface,” in the School for 
Scandal (1777). 


Bligh (William), captain of the 
Bounty, so well known for the mutiny, 
(i790) by Fletcher Christian, the mate 
1790). 


Blimber (Dr.), head of a school for 
the sons of gentlemen, at Brighton. It 
was a select school for ten pupils only ; 
but there was learning enough for ten 
times ten. ‘‘ Mental green peas were 
produced at Christmas, and intellectual 
asparagus all the year round.” The 
doctor was really a ripe scholar, and truly 
kind-hearted ; but his great fault was 
over-tasking his boys, and not seeing 
when the bow was too much stretched. 
Paul Dombey, a delicate lad, succumbed 
to this strong mental pressure. 

Mrs. Bli , wife of the doctor, not 
learned, but wished to be thought so. 
Her pride was to see the buys in the 
largest possible collars and stiffest pos- 
sible cravats, which she deemed highly 
classical. 

Cornelia Blimber, the doctor's daughte1, 
a slim young lady, who kept her hair 
short and wore spectacles. Miss Blimber 
“Shad no nonsense about her,” but had 

wn ‘‘dry and sandy with working in 
the graves of dead lanjuages.” She mar- 
ried Mr. Feeder, B.A., Dr. Blimber's 
usher.—C, Dickens, Dombey and Son 
(1846). 


Blind Beggar 
Green, Henry, son and heir of sit 
Simon de Montfort. At the battle of 
Evesham the barons were routed, Mont- 

5 


of Bethnal 





BLOODY. 


enemies, and could could “neither sue nor be 
SRC SIE SOUR Hh SAL NER AE Eee 


William Fite-Roger, being arraigned 
dik Navas 1h) tor te evavlen wd 
de Cantilon, pleads that he was 
not guilty of felony, because his victim 
was not of “free blood,” 2. one of the 
“five bloods of Ireland." The plea is 
admitted by the jury to be J spas 
weassesry fis ¢ John 
a, thei be could not hemi hare com- 


“bees the decease] wes a mere [rish- 
wus. snd nat one of the Give blooda"—Sir John Darien 


Panta: PO ip! on). Il. emperor of 
973-083 


sini kenSsanins 5 taki 
ds ted ws ~Bloody-bones of Lonsford (ie dr Thome 
Lanner. porernor of the Tower, the dread of every one). 


—i iutler, 

Bloody Brother (The), a tragedy 
by Beaumont and Fletcher (1639). The 
“bloody brother™ is Rollo duke of Nor- 
mandy, who kills his brother Otto and 
several other persons, but is himeelf 


killed ultimately by Hamond captain of 
the guard. 





Bloody Butcher (The), the duke | 


of Cumberland, second son of George 1I., 
eo called from his barbarities in the sup- 
sion of the rebellion in favour of 
‘harles Fadward, the young pretender. 
“Black Clifford" was also called “‘The 
Butcher " for hia cruelties (died 1461). 


Bloody Hand, Cathal, an ancestor 
of the O'Connora of "Ireland, 


Bloody M 


queen Mary of Eng- 


ary, | 
, daughter of Henry VIII. “and elder 


balf-sister of queen KE lizabeth. So called 
an account of the sanguinary persecutions 
carried on by her against the protestants, 
lt is said that 200 persons were burnt to 
death in her short reign (1516, 1553- 
1554). 

sary! Wedding 7%)» that of 
Henri of 8 javarre with Margaret, sister 
of Charles 1X. of France. Catherine de 


Medicis invited all the chief protestant | 


nobles to this wedding, but on the eve of 
the festival of St. Bartholomew (August 
#4, 1572), a general onslaught was made 
on all the protestants of Pana, and next 
dav the same massacre was extended to 
the provinces. The number which fell 
ia this wholesale slaughter has been esti- 
mated at between 50,000 and 70,000 per- 
eons of both sexes. 


Bloomfield (Lowisa), a young lady 





BLOUNT. 


engaged to lord Totterly the beau of 
60, but in love with Charles Danvers the 
embryo barrister.—C, Selby, Zhe Un- 
finished Gentleman. 


Blount (Nicholas), afterwards kni 
ed; master of the horse to the earl of 
Sussex.—Sir W. Scott, Kenilworth (time, 
Elizabeth). 


Blount (Sir Frederick), a distant rela- 
tive of sir John Vesey. He had a 
objection to the letter r, which he con 
sidered “wough and wasping.” He 
dressed to ection, and though not 
“wich,” prided himself on having the 
best opewa-box, the best dogs, the best 
horses, and the best house" of any one, 
He liked Georgina Vesey, and as she had 
£10,000 he thought he should do himself 
no harm by “ mawywing the girl."—Lord 
L. Bislwer' Lytton, Money (1840). 


Blount (Master), a wealthy pavele 
of Ludgate Hill, London. n old- 
fashioned tradesman, not ashamed of his 
calling. He had two sons, Jobn and 
Thomas; the former was his favourite. 
Mistress Blount, his wife. A shrewd, 
discerning woman, who loved her son 


| Thomas, and saw in him the elements of 
| @ rising man, 


Join Blount, eldest son of the Ludgate 
jeweller. Being left successor to his 


| father, he sold the goods and set up for a 


man of fashion and fortune. His vanity 
and snobbism were most gross. He had 
good-nature, but more cunning than dis- 
cretion, thought himself far-seeing, but 
was most easily duped. ‘* The phaeton 
Wis built after my design, my lord," he 
say's, ‘‘mayhap your lordship bas seen it.” 
“My taste is driving, my lord, mayhap 
your lordship has seen me handle the 
ribbons.” “My horses are all bloods, 
mayhap your lordship has noticed my 
team.” “'T pride myself on my seat in 
the saddle, mavhap your lordship has 
seen meride.” “If ] am superlative in 
anything, ‘tis in my wines.” ‘So please 
your ladyship, ‘tis dress | most excel im. 
"tis walking 1 pride myself in.’ 
No matter what is mentioned, ‘tis the one 


| thing he did or had better than any one 


elee, This conceited fowl was duped into 
believing a parcel of mien-servants to be 
lords and "duine and made love w @ 
lady's maid, supposing her to be a 
countess, 

Thomas Hiomf!, John's brother, and one 
of nature's gentlemen. He entered the 
army, became a colonel, and married 








BLUE HEN. 
penny for every year of the king's life, 
1 loaf of bread, and a bottle of ale, No 
new member has been added gince 1833. 


Blue Hen, a nickname for the state 
eof Delaware, United States. The term 





arcee thus: Captain Caldwell, an officer | 


of the let ware ‘iment im the 
American War for Independence was very 
fond of game-cocks, but maintained that 
no cock was truly came unless its mother 
wes a “blue ben.” As he was exceed- 
ingly pular, his regiment was called 
“The Blue Hens,” and the term was 
afterwards transferred to the state and 
its inhabitants. | 
Four mother was a Wue Aen, no dowht ; 
a reproof to a braggart, especially to one 


who boasts of his ancestry. 
Blue Knight The), sir Persannt 
of India, called by ‘reanysoa “ Morming 


Star" or “ Phosphirus.” He was one 
of the four brothers who kept the pas- 
taces of Castle Perilous, and was over- 
thrown by sir Gareth.—Sir T. Malory, 
History of Prince Arthur, i, 131 (1470) ; 
Tennyson, Jdylls (‘‘Gareth and Ly- 
bette ¢: 

*.* It is evidently a blunder in Tenny- 
son tw call the Alwe Knight ** Morning 
Star," and the Green Knight “‘ Evening 
Star.” The reverse is correct, and in 
the old romance the combat with the 
Green Knight was at dav-brenak, and 
with the Blue Knight ot sunset, 

Blue Moon. (nce in a blue moon, 
rery rarely indeed. The expression re- 
eembles that of “‘the Greek Kalende,’ 
which means ‘‘ never,” because there were 
oo Greek Kalends. 


Blue Roses.—The blue flower of the | 


Jerman romantic poets represented the 
ideal and unattainable—what Worda- 
worth calls “the light that pever was on 
sea or land”—and Alphonse Karr, fol- 
lowing in the wake of the Germans, gives 
the name of Rosew Bienes to all impos- 
wible wishes and desires. 


Blue-Skin, Joseph Blake, an Eng- | 


fieh burglar, a0 called from his complex- 
lon. He was executed in 1723. 

Bluff (Captam Noll), a swaggering 
bolly and boaster. He says, ‘'T think 
that fighting for fighting's sake is suffi- 
cient cause for fighting. Fighting, to 
me, is religion and the laws." 

“Ts pot know, ofr, | wee reddent in Flandem the 
jen campeies . .. there was ecarce anything of moment 
dee bot a fombde servant of soors. .. had the 
q@reutest share Int... . Well, would you think it, in all 


Chis time na 
exes mentioned me? Not once, by the wars! Tuok no 


117 
| tort notions of Noll Blaif than if be had not been ta the 
Bachelor (300. 


. Cet reecally Govetie never mw mech a | his own 








BOANERGES. 


aod of the ving. "—Congrere, The Old 
Bluff Hal or Bivyr Harry, Heary 


Ere pet In scorn of Peters panca, 
And vormbered bead aul eturilt, 
Muff Hall he broke into the spence [eo lerder), 
And tarned the cowls sirift. 
Tennyson. 
Blunder. The bold but disastrous 
charge of the British Light Brigade at 
Balacia'va is attributed to a blunder; 
even Tennyson says of it, ‘Some one 
hath blundered,” but Thomas Woolner, 
with lesa reserve, enya : 


A poner] 
May blunder troops to death, yea, and reeetve 
than ka, 


His sonatie’s Vols of 
My Beautiful Laay. 
Blun'derbore (3 syh.), the giant 
who was drowned because Jack scuttled 


his boat.—Jack the Giant-hiler. 
Blunt (Colonel), a brasque royalist, 


who vows “‘ he'd woo no woman,” but 
falls in love with Arbella an heiress, 
woos and wins her, T. Knight, who 
has converted this comedy into a farce, 
with the title of Jfonest Thieves, calls 
colonel Blunt ‘captain Manly.”—Hon. 
sir R. Iloward, 7Ae Committee (1670). 


Blunt (Major-General), an old eavalry 
officer, read in speech, but brave, 
honest, and a true patriot—Shadwell, 
The Volunteers. 


Blushington (Fdirard), a bashful 
young gentleman of 25, sent as a poor 
scholar to Cambridge, without any 
expectations, but by the death of his 
father and uncle left all at once as ‘rich 
as a nmablol.” At collece he was called 
‘the sensitive plant of Brazenose,” be- 
cause he was alwarys blushing. He dines 
by invitation at Friendly Hall, and com- 
mits ceaseless Wlunders. Next day his 
collece chum, Frank Friendly, writes 
word that lie and his sister Dinah, with 
sir Thomas and lady Friendly, will dine 
with him. After a few glasses of wine, 
he loses his bashful modesty, makes a 
long speech, and becomes the accepted 
suitor of the pretty Miss Dinah Friendly. 
—W. T, Moncrieff, TAe Bashful Man. 


Bo or Fol, savas Warton, was a fierce 
Gethie chief, whose name was used to 
frighten chiliiren, 

Boaner’ges (4 syl.), a declamatory 
pet parson, who anathematizes all except 
‘elect. “He preaches real 
rousing-up discourses, but sits down 








BODACH GLAY. 
and “ Pistol (Shakespeare) ; ‘‘ Bessus ” 





Beaumont and Fletcher). (See also 
suussco, Horxovcueiuirr, CAPTAIN 
Quazex, Carraix Nou, Buvrrr, Sin 


PeTsower FLasH, SackiIPant, VINCENT 
oe LA Rose, etc.) 
Bodach G 

a house demon 
the Iriah banshee. 
Be'mond, the Christian king of 
Antioch, who tried to teach his subjects 
arts, law, and religion. He is of the 


or “Grey Spectre," 
the Scotch, similar to 


Norman race, Roge’ro's brother, and son — 


ef Roberto Guiscar' do.—Tasao, Jerusalem 
Delivered (1575). 


Beeo'tian Bars, ears unable to ap- 
inte music and rhetoric. Breotia was 
ed at by the Athenians for the dul- 
ness and stupidity of its inhabitants. 
“Thin ts having taste and sentiment Well, triend, 1 
@eery thee thes hast nat got Peeotian care” |fecauer he 
trThin extracts read fo kim by dn Gather | — 
Coe. Gu Bias, vi 3 (1715) 
Boouf (Front de), a gigantic ferocious 
follower of prince John.—Sir W. Scott, 
feanhoe (time, Richard I.). 


Boffin (Nicodemus), “the golden 
dustman,” foreman of old John Harmon, 
dustman and miser. He was “a broad, 
round-shouldered, one-sided old fellow, 
whose face was of the rhinoceros build, 
with over-lapping ears." A kind, shrewd 
aan was Mr. fin, devoted to his 
wife, whom he greatly admired. Being 
residuary legatee of John Harmon, dust- 
wan, te came in for £100,000. After- 
wards, John Harmon, the son, being 
discovered, Mr. Boffin surrendered the 
property to him, and lived with him. 

rs, Boffin, wife of Mr. N. Boffin, and 
daughter of a cat's-mest man, She was 
a fat, smiling, good-tempered creature, 
the servant of old John Harmon, dust- 
man and miser, and very kind to the 
miser's son (young John Harmon). After 
Mr. Hoffin came into his fortune she 
became “‘a high fiver at fashion,” wore 
black velvet and sable, but retained her 
kindness of heart and love for her hus- 
tend. She was devoted to Hella Wilfer, 
who altrmately became the wife of young 
Inbo Harmon, alias Rokesmith. — C. 
Dickens, Our Mutual Friend (1864). 

Bo'gio, one of the allies of Charle- 
magne. He promised his wife to return 
within six months, but was slain by 
Dardinello.— Ariosto, Orlando Furioso 
(1516). 


Bogle Bwindle (The), a gigantic 





introduced in the ball 








BOISTERER. 
ewindling scheme, concocted at Paris 

fourteen sharpers, who expected to clear 
by it at least a million sterling. This 
swindle was exposed by O'Reilly in the 
Times newspaper, and the corporation of 
London thanked the proprietors of that 





| journal for their public services. 


Bo'guas, sham, forged, fraudulent, as 
boyus currency, bogus transactions; said 
to be a corruption of Borghese, a swindler, 
who supplied the North American Statee 
wae ees bills, bills on fictitious 

#, and sham mortgages. — Boston 
Daily Courier. 

Some think the word a corruption of 
Feige! Pocus, and say that it refers to 

e German ‘' Hocus Imperatus, 
wer nicht sieht ist blind.” The core 
responding French term is Passe muscade. 


Bohe'mia, any locality frequented by 


| journalists, artists, actors, opera-singers, 


spouters, and other similar rs. 

Bohemian (A), a gipsy, from the 
French notion that the first gipsies came 
from Bohemian, 

A Literary Bohemian, an author of 
desultory works and irregular life. 

Never waa there an editor with less about bim of the 


| Uterury Bobomlan,— Fortnightly Review ('° Pastoa 
| Letters”). 


Bohemian Literature, desultory reading. 

A Bohemian Life, an irregular, wander- 
ing, restless way of living, like that of a 
Bipsy. 

Bo'hemond, prince of Antioch, a 
crusader.—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert of 
Paris (time, Rufus). 

Bois'gelin (The young countess de), 
yiven by king 
Rene at Aix.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Geierstein (Lime, Edward IV.). 

Bois-Guilbert (Sir Brian d:), a 

receptor of the Knights Temp’ars. 
ivanhoe yanquishes him in a toarnament. 
He offers insult to Rebecca, and she 
threatens to cast herself from the battle- 
menta if he touches her. When the castle 
is set on fire by the sibvl, sir Brian 
carries off Rebecca from the flames. The 
Grand-Muaster of the Knights Templars 
charges Kebecen with sorcery, and she 
demands a trial by combat. Sir Brian de 
Bois-Luilbert is appointed to sustain the 


| eharge against her, and Ivanhoe is her 


champion. Sir Brian being found dead 
in the lista, Rebecca is declared innocent. 
—Sir W. Scott, /ranhoe (time, Richard ].). 


Boisterer, one of the seven attend- 





BOMBASTES FURIOSO. 





Ia 


F 


Rehearsal, by the duke of Buck- 
Bayes’ troops are killed, every 
them, by Drawcansir, but revive, 
“ go off on their lege 
See the translation of Don Quixote, by 
C. H. Wilmot, Esq., ii. 368 (1764). 
Borbastes Furioso (The French), capi- 
taine Fracasse.—Théophile Gautier. ° 
Bombas’tus, the family name of 
Paracelsus. He is said to have kept a 
gral] devil prisoner in the pommel of his 


tword. 
Ghat ta the = of his sword, 
Fe nt Line all the cocaine pranks 


Of past and moun 
& Butler, Audidras, fi. 8. 


Bo’naparte’s Cancer. Napoleon 
eaffered from an internal cancer. 

i. would mon rather have a sound digestion 

one" Byron, Don Juan, tx. 14 (1821). 

Bonas’sus, an imaginary wild beast, 
whieh the Ettrick shepherd encountered. 
(The Ettrick shepherd was James Hogg, 
the Scotch )—Noctes Ambrosiane 
(No. xlviii., April, 1830). 


Bounaventu’re (Father), a disguise 
assumed for the nonce by the chevalier 
Charles Edward, the pretender.—Sir W. 
Scott, Redyauntiet (time, George 1II.). 


Bondu’ca or Boadice’a, wife of 
Presu'tagus king of the Ice'ni. For the 
better security of his family, Presutagus 
made the emperor of Rome coheir with 
bis daughters ; whereupon the Roman 
officers took pasession of his palace, 

ve up the princesses to the licentious 

tality of the Roman soldiers, and 
scourged the queen in public. Bonduca, 
roused to vengeance, assembled an army, 
burnt the Roman colonies of London, 
Colchester [Camalodunum], Verulam, etc., 
and slew above 80,000 Romans. Sub- 
sequently, Sueto’nius Paulinus defeated 
the Britons, and Bonduca poisoned herself, 
a.p. 61. John Fletcher wrote a tragedy 
entitled Bonduca (1647). 


Bone-setter (The), 
(died 1736). 

Bo’ney, a familiar contraction of 
Bo'naparte (3 syi.), used by the English 
in the early part of the nineteenth cen- 
tury by way of depreciation. Thus 

om. Movre of “the infidel 


ot 


Sarah Mapp 


Bonhomme (Jacques), a peasant who 
interferes with politics ; hence the peasants’ 
rebellion of 1358 was called Lu Jucquerie. 


BONNIVARD. 


The words may be rendered “ Jimmy” og 
“Jhonny Goodfellow.” 


Boniface (St.), an Anglo-Saxon 
whose name was Winifrid or Winfrith, 
born in Devonshire. He was made arch- 

ishop of Mayence by regor . 
and is called ‘‘ The Apostieofthe Germans. 
St. Boniface was murdered in Friesland 
by, come peasants, and his day is June 5 
(680-755). 

... In Friedand first 8t. Boniface oar best, 

Who of the see of Ments, while there he sat possessed, 

At Dockum had his death, by faithless Frisians slain. 

Drayton, Pelyoldion, xxiv. (1623). 

Bon! iface (Father), ex-abbot of Kenna- 
quhair. He first appears under the name 
of Blinkhoodie in the character of gardener 
at Kinross, and afterwards as the old 
gardener at Dundrennan. (Kennaguhaw, 

t is, “I know not where.”)—Sir W. 
Scott, The Abbot (time, Elizabeth). 

Bon'iface (The abbot), successor of the 
abbot Ingelram, as Superior of St. Mary's 
Convent.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Monastery 
(time, Elizabeth). 

Bon'iface, landlord of the inn at Lich- 
field, in league with the highwaymen. 
This sleek, jolly publican is fond of the 
cant phrase, ‘‘as the saying is.” Thus, 
‘‘ Dues your master stay in town, as the 
saying is?” ‘So well, as the saying is, 
I could wish we had more of them.” 
“I'm old Will Boniface ; pretty well 
known upon this road, as the saying is.” 
He had lived at Lichfield ‘‘ man and boy 
above eight and fifty years, and not con- 
sumed eight and fifty ounces of meat.” 
He says: 

bare fed Purely spon ale. I have eat my ole, drank 
bar, The Beaux’ Scratagem Lito 

Bonne Reine, Claude de France, 
daughter of Louis XII. and wife of 
Francois I (1499-1524). 


Bonnet (Je parle &@ mon), “I am 
talking to myself.” 

Harpagon. A qui tu parle! 

La Fléce. Je parie & mon bonnet. 

Moliére, L’Avare, 1. 8 (1687). 

Bonnet Rouge, a red republican, 
so calied from the red cap of liberty 
which he wore. 


Bonnivard (Francois de), the pris- 
oner of Chillon. In Byron’s poem he 
was one of six brothers, five of whom 
died violent deaths. The father and two 
sons died on the battle-field; one was 
burnt at the stake ; three were imprisoned 
in the dungeon of Chillon, near the lake 
of Geneva. Two of thc three died, and 











BORDER MINSTREL. 123 ‘BORS. 
Border Minstrel (The), sir Walter sellor of the great-duke of Moscovia.— 
Seott (1771-18372). Beaumont and Fletcher, The Loyal 
My tinpe the Border Minstrel led Subject (1618). 
Borough ( The), in ten-syllable verse 


States Whee America: 
iabare Mary lan Virginia, o- 
tucky, and Missouri, So called because 
they bordered upon the line of Free 
States and Slave-holding States. The 
term is now an anachronism. 
Bore (1 syl.), a tidal wave. The 
largest are those of the 


om (espe- 
cially the Hooghly branch), Brahmaputra, 


end Indus. In (rest Britain, the Severn, 
the T the Wye, the Solway, the Dee 
in Cheshire, the Clyde, Dornoch Frith, 
and the Lune. That of the Trent is 
ealled the “ heygre.” 

Bo'reas, the north wind. He lived in 
@cave on mount Hemus, in Thrace. 


Bor’gia (Lucrezia di), duchess of Fer- 
rs'ra, wife don Alfonso. Her natural 
eon Genna'ro was brought up by ao fisher- 
man im Naples, but when he grew to 
manhood a gave him a paper 
from his mother, announcing to him that 
he was of noble blood, but concealing his 
name and family. He saved the life of 
Orsi'ni in the battle of Kim'ini, and they 
became eworn friends. In Venice he was 
introduced to a party of nobles, all of 
oe had some tale to tell against Lu- 

: Orsini told him she had murdered 
hon te brother ; Vitelli, that she had caused 
his uncle to be slain; Liverotto, that she 
had poisoned his uncle Appia'no; Gazella, 
that de had caused one of his relatives 
to be drowned in the Tiber. Indignant at 
these acts of wickedness, Gennaro struck 
off the B from the escutcheon of the duke's 
pa at Ferrara, changing the name 

rgia into Orgia. Lucrezia prayed the 
duke to put to death the man who had 
thus insulted their noble house, and Gen- 
paro was condemned to death by poison. 
Lucrezia, to save him, gave him an anti- 
dote, and let him out of prison by a secret 
door, Soonafter his liberation the princess 
Negroni, a friend af the Horgina, gave a 
grand supper, to which Gennaro and his 
companions were invited. At the close of 
the banquet they were all arrested by 
Lucrezia, after having drunk poisoned 
wine. Gennaro was told he was the son 
of Locrezia, and died, Locrezia no sooner 
savy him die than she died alao,—Doni- 
zetti, Lucrezia di Borya (an opera, 1835), 


Boros’kie (3 s/.), a malicious coun- 


with rhymes, in twenty-four letters, is by 
George Crabbe (1810). 

Bor’oughcliff (Captain), s 
Yankee, boas ioe boastful, conceited, and ee 
“'T guess,” ‘I reckon,” ay calculate,” 
are used indifferently by him, and he 
perpetually appeals to sergeant Drill to 
confirm his boastful assertions: as, “ I'm 
Naltoee considerable favourite with the 

ea; arn't I, se it Drill?” “ My 
character for valour is eye well known ; 
isn't it, sergeant Drill?" “If you once 
saw me in battle, you'd never forget it ; 
would he, sergeant Drill?” “I'ma sort 
of a kind of a nonentity; arn't I, sergeant 
Drill?" ete. He is made the butt of 
Long Tom Coffin, Colonel Howard 
wishes him to indy hae wi niece Katharine, 
but the young lad given her heart to 
lieutenant Barnstable, who turns out to 
be the colonel's son, and succeeds at Inst 
in marrying the lady of bis affection, — 
E. Fitzball, The Pilot, 

Borre (1 syi.), natural son of ki 
Arthur, and one of the knights of the 
Round Table. His mother was Lyo- 
nors, an earl’s daughter, who came to do 
homage to the young king.—Sir T. 
rete History of Prince Arthur, i. 15 
(1470). 

*," Sir Bors de Ganis is quite another 
person, and so is king Bors of Gaul. 


Borriohoo'la Gha, in Africa, (See 
JELLYBY, Mrs.) 


Borro'meo (Charles), cardinal and 
archbishop of Milan. Immortalized by 
his self-devotion in ministering at Mil'an 
to the plague-stricken (1558-1584). 

St. Koche, who died 1527, devoted 
himself in a similar manner to those 
stricken with the plague at Piacenza; and 
Mompesson to the people of Eyam. In 
1720-22 H. Francis Xavier de Belsunce 
was indefatigable in ministering to the 
plague-stricken of Marseilles, 


Borrowing. Who qoeth a-borrowing, 
goeth a-sorrowing.—T. 'Tuseer, Fire J/wn- 
dred Points of Good Husbandry, xv 8 
and again xiii. 6 (1557). 

Bors (Ainy) of Gaul, brother of king 
Ran of Benwicke [? Brittany]. They 
went to the aid of prince Arthur when 
he was first established on the British 


| throne, and Arthur promised in returp to 








BOTTLED BEER. 125 


Geoffrey Bothwell, the husband of 
lady Bothwell. 

irs. Maryaret Bothwell, in the intro- 
duction of the story. Aunt aret 
proposed to use Mrs. Margaret's tomb- 
stone for her own.—Sir W. Aunt 
Margaref's Mirror (time, William III.). 

Bottled Beer, Alexander Nowell, 
author of a celebrated Latin catechism 
which first appeared in 1570, under the 
title of Chrutone pietatis prima Insti- 
In 1560 he was promoted to the deanery 
of St. Paul's 
Worthies of England (‘‘ Lancashire") 

Bottom (Nick), an Athenian weaver 
a compound of profdund ignorance and 
unbounded conceit, not without good 
nature and a fair dash of mother-wit. 
When the play of Piramus and Thishe 


is cast, Bottom covets every part; the | 


lion, Thisb@, Pyriimus, all have charms 
forhim. In order to punish Titan’ia, the 
fairy-king made her dote on Bottom, on 
whom Pock had placed an ase’s head.— 
Shakespeare, Midanmmer Night's Dream, 

Whies Gollenith, jexkae of the atienilon which a 
@oring monkey attracted In & coffee-house, anid, “7 con 
@o that as weil,” ond om saben} to attempt it, be wea but 
Paring “ Bottom."—IL. G. White. 

Bottomless Pit (Tic), a ludicrous 
sobriquet of Willinm Pitt, who was re- 
markably thin (1759-1806). 

Boubekir’’ Muez’in, of Bagdad, 
“a vain, proud, and envious iman, 
who hated the rich because he him- 
eelf was poor.” When prince Zeyn 
Alasnam came to the city, he told the 


people to beware of him, for probably he | 


was “‘some thief who had made himself 
rich by plunder.” The prince's attendant 
called on him, put into his hand a purse 
of gold, and requested the honour of his 
acjuaintance. Next day, after morning 
| be pos the iman said to the people, “] 

i, my brethren, that the stranger who 
is come to Lagdad is a young prince 
peesessed of a thousand virtues, and 
worthy the love of all men, Let us pro- 
tect him, and rejoice that he has come 
among us."—Arabiun Nights (‘ Prince 
Zeyn Alasnam ™), 


Bouchard (ir), a knight of Flan- 
ders, of most honourable descent. He 
mained Constance, daughterof Rertulphe 

rovest of Brujes. In 11297 Charles ‘the 

~«],” earl of Flanders, made a law that 
a serf was always a serf till manumitted, 
and whoever married a serf became 
s serf. Now, Bertulphe’s father was 


(1507-1602). — Fuller, | 


BOUNTY. 


Thancmar's serf, and Bertulphe, who had 
raised himself to wealth and yreat honour, 
was reduced to serfdom because hia father 
was not manumitted, Hy the same law 
Bouchard, although a knight of roym 
blood, became Thancmar's serf because 
he married Constance, the daughter of 
Bertul phe aa of Uruges). The 
result of this absurd law was thw 
Bertulphe slew the earl! and then ree 
Constance went mad and died, Bou | 
and Than:mar slew each other in fight, 
and all Haages was thrown into confusion, 
ae The Provost of Brwuyea 


Bought Wit is Dear. Wisdom 
een by experience is dearly bought.— 
» Gascoigne, Magnum Vectiyal, ete, 
(died 1577). 


Bouw'illon (Godfrey duke p> A 
crusader (1058-1100), introduced in Con 
Robert of Paris, a novel by sir W. Scott 
(time, Kufus). 


Bounce (Mr. T.), a nickname given 
in 1847 to T. Barnes, editor of the Tunes 
(or the Zurnabout, as it was called). 


Bound 'erby (Josiah), of Coketown, 
banker and mill-owner, the “ lully of 
Humility," a big, loud man, with an iron 
stare and metallic laugh. Mr. Bounderby 
is the son of Mrs. Pegler, an old woman, 
to whom he pays £30 0 year to keep out 
of sight, and in a boasting way he pre- 
tends that “he was dragywed up from the 
rutter to become a millionaire.” Mr.’ 
lounderby marries Louisa, daughter of 
bis neighbour and friend, Thomas (irad- 
grind, Kay., M.P.—C. Dickens, /fard 
Times (1854), 


Bountiful (Lady), widow of sir 
Charles Bountiful. Her delight was 
curing the parish sick and relieving the 
indigent. 

My lady Rountifal is one of the best of women, Her 
late liwband, er Charles Bowntital, left her with #1000 
a year; ond | believe che lays oul one-half on't in 
Charitable mes for the good af her nelghboora In short, 
bhe hae cured more people tot and aboot Lichfield witht 
ten yeanmthan the doctors have killed in twenty: al 
that's a bold word.—(George Farquhar, Tay Bear’ Sram 
gem, Lt (1705), 

Bounty {Mutiny of the), in 1790,, 
headed by Fletcher ‘Christian, The 
mutineers finally settled in Pitesirn 
Island (Polynesian Archipelago). In 
108 all the mutincers were dead except 
one (Alexander Smith), whe had chanced 
his name to John Adams, and became @ 
model patriarch of the colony, which was 
taken under the protection of the British 
Government in 1839, Lord Byron, i= 





BOYET. 137 


mast possess a certain amount of expe- 


rience. 

There is a sea axiom, A “boy” does not 
ship to know - that i when a 
of “boy” on 


Boyet’, one of the lords attending on 


of France.—Shakespeare, 
Lads Labour's Lost (1654). 


Boythorn (Leurence), a robust 
gentleman with voice of a Stentor, 
and a friend of Mr. Jarndyce. He would 
utter the most ferocious sentiments, while 
at the same time he fondled a pet canary 
on his finger. Once on a time he had 
been im love with Miss Barbary, lady 
Dedlock’s aster. But ‘“‘the good old 
times—all times when old are —were 
gooe.”"—C. Dickens, Bleak 
om” is a 


Bos, Charles Dickens. It was the 
nickname of a pet brother dubbed Moses, 
in honour of ‘‘ Moses Primrose” in the 

woar of Wakefield. Children called the 
name Sozes, which got shortened into 
Boz (1812-1870). 

Who the dickens ‘Bes ” ould be 


Pussied many 2 learned olf ; 
ar sated ae Dickerst 
And “ Bos ° appeared as oolf. 
Epigram on the Ourthusien. 


Boszy, James Boswell, the gossipy 
Liographer of Dr. Johnson (1740-1795) 


Braban'tio, a senator of Venice, 
father of Desdemo’na; most proud, 
arrogaot, and overbearing. He thought 
the “‘insolence” of Othello in marrying 
his daughter unpardonable, and that 
Desdemona must have been d with 
love-potions so to demean herself.— 
Shakespeare, Othello (1611). 


Brac’cio, commissary of the repablie 
ef Florence, employed im picking up 
every item of scandal he could find 
against Lu’ria the noble Moor, who com- 
manded the army of Florence against the 
Pisans. The Florentines hoped to find 
sufficient cause of blame to tessen or 
wholly cancel their obligations to the 
Moor, but even Braccio was obliged to 
eonfess ‘“‘This Moor hath borne his 
faculties so meek, hath been so clear in 


bie office, that his virtues wuuld 
plead like angels, trumpet-tongued,” 





BRADWARDINE. 


against the council which should censure 
him.—Robert Browning, ” 


Brac’idas and Ami the twe 
sons of Mile’sio, the former in love with 
the wealthy Philtra, and the latter with 
the dowerless Lucy. Their father at 
death left each of his sons an island of 
equal size and value, but the sea daily 
encroached on that of the elder brother 
and added to the island of Amidas. The 
rich Philtra now forsook Bracidas for the 
richer brother, and Lucy, seeing herself 
forsaken, jumped into the sea. floating 
chest her attention, she clung te 

and was ‘trifted to the wasted island, 
w IFracidas received her kindly 
The ches. was found to contain property 
of great value, and Lucy gave it to 
Bracidas, together with herself, ‘the 
better of them both.” Amidas and 
Philtra claimed the ches as their right, 
Atel disp te was submitted to sir 

. Sir Artegal deci 
whereas Amidas claimed as his own all 
the additions which the sea had given 
to his island, so Lucy might claim as her 
own the chest which the sea had given 
into her hands.—Spenser, Fatry Queen, 
v. 4 (1596). 


Bracy (Sir Maurice de), a follower 
of prince John. He sues the lady Rowen’‘a 
to become his bride, and threatens to kill 
both Cedric and Ivanhoe if she refuses. 
The interview is intercepted, and at the 
close of the novel Rowena marries 
Ivanhoe.—Sir W. Scott, J/eunhve (time, 
Richard I.). 


Brad’amant, danghter of Amon and 
Beatrice, sister of Rinaldo, and niece of 
Charlemagne. She was called the Virgin 
Kn jit. Her armour was white, and her 

lume white. She loved Roge’ro the 
foor, but refused to marry him till he 
was baptized. Her marriage with 
pomp and Rogero’s victory over Rodo- 
mont. form the subject of the last book of 
Orlando Furivso. Bradamant possessed 
an irresistible spear, which unhorsed any 
knight with a touch. Britomart had a 
similar spear.—BHojardo, Urlando Inna- 
meritto (1495); Ariosto, Orlundy Furiwse 
(1516). 


Brad’bourne§ (Mistress = Lilias), 
waitiny-woman of lady Avenel (2 sul), 
at Avenel Castle.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Abbut (time, Elizabeth). 


Bradwardine (Como Cosmyne), 
baron of Bradwardine and of 





BRAMBLE. 


ist," “‘always on the fret,” i Ae 
ic, and afflicted with gout, but 


evolent, generous, and kind-hearted. 
Misa Tibthe Bramble, an old maiden 


sister of Matthew Bramble, of some 45 
' of age, noted for her bad spel- 
ing. She is starch, vain, prim, and 
ridiculous; soured in ery proud 
imperious, prying, mean, icious, and 
uncharitable, She contrives at last to 
marry captain Lismaha'o, who is content 
to take “ the maiden" for the sake of her 


*.° ‘ Matthew Bramble” is “‘ Roderick | 


Random" grown old, somewhat cynical by 


experience of the world, but vastly im- | 


proved in taste. 

Seoflett took sora of the Incidents of the family tour 
from“ Anestey’s New Bath Guide,"—Chambers, £nglish 
Literature, ii. 

Bramble (Sir Robert), a baronet living 
at Blackberry Hall, Kent. Blunt an 
atv, but kind-hearted ; “charitable as a 
Christian, and rich as a Jew;™ fond of 
argument and contradiction, but de- 
testing flattery; very proud, but miost 
considerate to bis poorer neighbours. In 
his firet interview with lieutenant Wor- 
thington ‘the of gentleman,” the 
lieutenant mistonk him for a bailiff come 
to arrest him, but sir Robert nobly paid 
the bill for £500 when it was presented to 
him for signature as sheriff of the county. 

*,* “Sir Robert Bramble" is the same 
trpe of character as Sheridan's “sir An- 
thony Absolute.” 

Frederich Bramble, nephew of air 
Robert, and son of Joseph Bramble a 


Russian merchant. His father nering | 


failed in business, Frederick was adop 
by his rich unele. He is full of life and 
noble instincts, but thoughtless and 
impulsive. Frederick falls in love with 
Emily Worthington, whom he marries,— 
G. Colman, The Poor Gentleman (1802). 

Bra'mine (? sy/.) and Bra’min 
(Tae), Mra, Elizabeth Draperand Laurence 
Sterne. Sterne being a clergyman, aod 
Mrs. Draper being born in 
gested the names. Ten of Sterne’s letters 
to Mrs. Draper are published, and called 
Letters to Eliza. 


Bran, the deg of Lamderg the lover 


ndia, sug | 


129 





BRANGTONS. 


of Gelchossa (daughter of Tuathal).— 
Ossian, Fingal, v. 
*," Fingal king of Morven had a do 
~ the same name, and another nam 
uiith, 


Call White-brewted Bron and ihe strength 
Lutth.—Omlan, Fingal, vl my - 


Brand (Sir Denys), a county magnate, 
who apes humility. He rides a sorry 
brown nag “‘ not worth £5," but mounts 
his groom on a race-horse “ twice victor 
for a plate.” 

_Bran'damond of Damascus, whom 
sir Bevis of Southampton defeated. 


That dreadfol battle where with randamond he fonght 
Aod with hla eworl and steed mich earthly wonder 


wrought 
As e'en among his foes him admiration won, 
M. Drayton, Pe'yeliden, IL (1812). 

Bran'dan (/sland of St.) or IsLanp 
or San Boran'pay,a flying iceland, so 
late os 1755 set down in geopraphical 
charts west of the Canary group. In 
1721 an expedition waa sent by Spain in 
quest thereof. The Spaniards say their 
king Rodri'go has retreated there, and 
the Portuguese affirm that it is the retreat 
of their don Sebastian. It was called St. 
Brandan from a navigator of the sixth 
century, who went in search of the 
“« Islands of Paradise.” 

Ita reality was fora long time « matter of firm bellef... 
the garden of Armi‘da, where Rinaldo was detalned, and 
Which Taso places in one of ihe Canmry lales, bas been 
identified with San Borandan.—W. Irving. 

(If there is any truth at all in the 
legend, the island must be ascribed to 
the Fata Morgana.) 


Bran'‘deum, plu. Frandea, a piece 
of cloth enclosed in a box with relics, 
which thus acquired the same miraculous 
powers as the relics themselves. 

Pope Leo proved this fact beyond a doubt, for when 
some Greeks ventured io qudtion it, he cut a brandeum 
through with o pair of sclwors, nd It wae instantly 
covered with biond,—J. Drady, (forls Calemdania, 15d. 

Bran'dimart, brother-in-law of 
Orlando, son of Monodantés, and husband 
of For'delis. This “ king of the Distant 
Islands" was one of the bravest knights 
in Charlemagne’s army, and was slain by 
Gradasso.—finjarde, Urlando [nnamorate 
(1495) ; Ariosto, Orlando Furioso (1016). 


Brandy Nan, queen Anne, who was 
very fond of brandy (1664-1714). 

Brandy Nan, brandy Nan. left (4/7) in the lorch, 
Her fece to the gin-shop, her back te the chorch, 
Written ox the statue af queen annein St Pauls palont, 
- Brangtons (The), vulgar, jealous, 
malicious gossips in Evelina, a novel by 

Miss Rurney (1778). " 





BRAZEN HEAD. 





BRETWALDA. 





time comes.” Byron refers to it in the 
Sette rote te eee 
- ™ Den Juan, 1 S17 (1819). 


by the marquis of 
(1384-1484). Anda sixth 
, & disciple of Escotillo an 


Another was made 
Viléna of 


by a Pe 


Brazen Head (The), » gigantic head 
kept in the castle of the giant Fer’ragus 
of Portugal. It was omniscient, and 
told those who consulted it whatever they 
desired to know, sow, past, present, or future. 
— Valentine znd 


Bread Street (London) 
gread-market in the time of 
Here Milton was born. 


wpreening a Stick is part of the 
ceremony of the Anierican 
Indians, as breaking a glass is still part 
the marriage ceremony of the Jews.— 
lady Augusta Hamilton, Marriaye Rites, 
etc., 292, 298. 
In one of Raphael's pictures we see an 
unsuccessful suitor of the virgin Mary 
breaking his stick, and this alludes to the 
legend that the ‘several suitors of the 
“virgin ” were each to bring an almond 
stick which was to be laid up in the sanc- 
tuary over night, and the owner of the 
stick which budded was to be accounted 
the suitor God ordained, and thus Joseph 
became her husband.—B. H. Cowper, 
A Gospel (‘* Peeudo-Matthew's 
Gospel,” 40, 41). 
In Florence is a 
Fejected suitors b 
back of Joseph. 


Breathes there a man... 


Breathes there a man with soul so dead, 
Whu never ed himeslf hath said, 
* This te my own, my native land“? 
ae WV. Scott, Lay ef the Last Minstrel, vi. 1 (1808). 
Brec’an, a mythical king of Wales. 
He had twenty-four daughters by one 
wife. These dauyhters, for their beaut 
and were changed into rivers, all 
ef which how into the Severn. Breck- 
nockshire, according to fable, is called 
after this king. (See ne next art.) 
Wie dye inet bie nears naane to that no that his to nubiles seat. 
tth twice tecive daughters bles. by one and 
beauties rare and annctity of life, 
%- rtvers were traasiormed ; whose porenes doth declare 
er fait Sec aap tnt rare they are... 
(een) 0 Hover: M. Draytou, Felyclbien, tv. (1613). 


Brec‘han (Prince), father of St. 


was the 
of Edward 1. 


icture in which the 
their sticks on the 


Cadock and St. Canock, the former a 
martyr and the latter a confessor. 


Thea Cadock, next to whom eomes Canock, both whish 


. were 
Prince Brechan's sone, who gave the name to Brecknesk 


The first a martyr made, a confemor the ether. 
Drayton, Polyeldion, xxiv. (167%). 
Breck (Alison), an old ishwife, friend 
wf the Mucklebackits.—Sir Scott, 
The Antiquary (time, George I ‘Je 


Breck (Angus), a fo a follower of Rob Roy 
M‘Gregor, outlaw.—Sir W. Scott, 
Roh Roy (time, George I.). 

Bren’da (Trot), daughter of Magous 
Troil and sister of Minna.—Sir 
* rong’ (time, William IJI.). 


wain, the confidante of Is’olde 
ny Si ) wife of sir Mark king of Corn- 
Gaim Isolde was criminally attached to 


her nephew sir Tristram, and Brengwain 
assisted the queen in her intrigues. 


Beng’ wain, wife of Gwenwyn ce of 
Powys-land. —Sir W. Scott, Fae 


trothed (time, Henry II.). 

Brenta’no (A), one of inconceivable 
folly. The Brentanos, Clemens and his 
sister Bettina, are remarkable in Ger- 
man literary annals for the wild and 
extravagant character of their genius. 
Bettina’s work, Githe’s Correspondence 
with a Child (1835), i is a pure fabrication 
of her own. 

Af the point where the folly of others ceases, that of 
the Breatasos begins. —German Preverd, 

Brer.tford (The two kings of). In 
the duke «of Buckingham's farce called 
The Rehearsal (1671), the two kings of 
Brentford center hand-in-hand, dance to- 
gether, sing together, walk arm-in-arm, 
and to heighten the absurdity the actor 
represent them asx smelling at the same 
noseyay (act ii. 2). 


Bres’an, a smal! island upon the verv 
point of Cornwall. 


Upon the utmost end 
Of Cornwall's furrowing beak, 
Where Besan from the and ak 
The tilting waves doth break. 
M. Drayton, Potyolbion, £. (1612). 
Breton. Entété comme le Breton. 
French proverbial expression. 
Bretwalda, the over-king of the 
Saxon rulers, established in England 
during the heptarchy. In Germanv the 
ov rer-king was called emperor. The 
bretwalda had no power in the civil 
affairs of the under-kings, but in times 
of war or danger formed an important 
centre. 





—— 





BREWER OF GHENT. 18 =—Ss BRIDGE OF SIGHS. 
Brewer of Ghent (Tie), James ta hem carrion @ lua sand) thd 
van Artevelde, a creat ue ho — | ~- . yo Le Lal 


Philip fell in the battle of Rosberg 
(fourteenth century). 


Bria'na, the Indy of a castle who 
demanded for toll “the locks of every 
lady and the beard of every k t that 
passed.” This toll was establi he- 
cause sir Crodor, with whom she wre ig 
love, refused to marry her til] she hed 
provided him with human hair eqiiicient 
io “purfle a wantle” with, Sir Cruden, 
having been overthrown in knightly 
combat tw sir Calidore, who refused to 
vive ‘the passage pay,” is made to 
release Briana from the condition im- 
posed on her, and Briana sweare to dis- 
eontinue the discourteous toll,—Spenger, 


Faery Queen, vi. 1 (1596). 


Bri'anor (Sir), a knight overthrown 
by the “ Salvage Knight,” whose name 
wis sir Artegal.—Spenser, Faary Queen, 


.o (1596). 


” Seatagh eos (4 myl.), usually called 
Briareus [ Bri’.a.ruce), the piant with a 
hundred hands. Hence Dryden says, 
‘(And Briareus, with all his hundred 
hands” ( Virgil, ri.) ; 
the name Hriartoa ( Paradise Lost, i. 199). 

Then, colle! tr thee, the mansier Titan come, 


Whom goles Briere, teen igen teaniee 
Pingee L J Tiana, L. 


senting a unity of 


| Diiseates ie chndnnien 


but Milton writes | 





heart.—Hyron, Bride of Abydos (1813). 
Bride of Lammermoor, Lacy 


wten Caleb 
eiend too 
srastioann, bul LE Serves'en'a tae 
tragic scenes, 


In The Deide of Lasser ©e Be eeicciial (Se 
dark spirit of (stathen—that april whic heed on the 
friliog of the Gree’ traced lina When they Crane the per- 


Flynn the spell tegelie ariel thes choad bieckes cee | 
ian, CO) they chose the tale in a olgit of borra.—D, Ber, 

_ Bride of the Sea, Venice, so called 
from the ancient ceremony of the doge 
marrying the city to the Adnatie by 


thrwine anne inte it nranaeneine Phaeen 





Bridges of Cane, in many parts 
of Spanish America, are thrown over 
narrow streams. 


Wihé-cane ow profound. 
Caapball, Gersade of Woecing: I. 16 (1800) 


wealthy, vulgar, and purse-proud. He 
is invited to a suiree given by lord Abber- 

ille, ** counts the servants, gapes 
a the lustres, and never enters the 
drawing-room at all, but stays below, 
er atting with the travelling tutor.” 

Mrs. Brid wife of Mr. Bridge- 
more, equally vulgar, but with more pre- 


tension to gentility. 
Miss Lexada Bridyemore, the spiteful, 


parse-proud, malicious daughter of Mr. 
and Mire. “Driduemore, of Fish Street 
Hill. She was engaged to lord Abber- 
ville, but her money would not out- 
balance her vulgarity and ill-temper, so 
the young ‘fashionable lover” made 
his bow and retired.—Cumberland, The 
Fushionable Lover (1780). 
Bridgenorth (Major Ralph), a 
roundhead and conspirator, neighvotr of 
sir Geoffrey Peveril of the Peak, a staunch 
eavalier. 
Mrs. Bri th, the major's wife. 
Alice Bro th, the major's dauchicer 
and heroine of the novel. Her marriage 
with Julian Peveril, a cavalier, concludes 
the novel.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the 
Peak (time, Charles 11.). 
Brid’get (ifiss), the mother of Tom 
Jones, in Fielding’s novel called The 


History of Tom Jones, a Foundliny (1750). | 


It bas bewn wondered why Fielding should have chosen 
to leave the stuin of filegis? on the birth of his 


Brit. Art. ‘* Fielding. 

Brid'yet (Mrs.), in Sterne’s novel called 
The Life and Op«nions of Tristram Shandy, 
Gent. (1759). 

Bridjet (Mother), aunt of Catherine 
Sevton, and abbess of St. Catherine.— 
Sir W. Scott, The Abvot (time, Elizabeth). 

Brid et (Slay), the milkwoman at Falk- 
land Castle.-—Sir W. Scott, Fuir Maid of 
Perth (time, Heury IV.). 

Bridge’ward (eter), the bridge- 
keeper of Kennaquhair (“I know not 
where”).—Sir W. dent, he Abbot (time, 
Plizabeth 


. Bridjeward (Peter), warder of the 


bridge near St. Mary’s Convent. He 
refuses a passage to father Phili 
carrying off the Bible of lady Alice.—Sir 
No pee The Monastery (time, Eliza- 


Bridle. John Gower says that Roai- 
ele princess of Armenia, insensidle to 
ove, saw in a vision a troop of ladies 
splendidly mounted, but cne of them rode 
a wretched wretchedly accoutred 
except as to the bridle. On asking the 
reason. the princess was informed that 
she was disgraced thus because of her 
cruelty to her lovers, but that the splendid 
bridle had been recently given, use 
the obdurate girl had for the last month 
shown symptoms of true love. Moral— 
Hence let ladies warning take— 
Of love that they be not idle, 
And bid them tbink of my bridle. 
Confessio A mantis (“ Episode of Rosiphele,” 1425-1408). 

Bridlegoose (Judye), a ju who 
decided the causes brought eres him 
not by weighing the merits of the case, 
but by the more simple process of throw- 
ing dice.—Rabelais, Pantay'ruel’, iii. 39 
(1545). 

*,* Beaumarchais, in his Marnayje of 
Fijuro (1784), has introduced this judge 
under the name of ‘ Brid’vison.” The 
person satirized by Rabelais is the chan- 
cellor Poyet. 


Bri'dlesly (Joe), a horse-dealer at 
Liverpool, of whom Julian Peveril buys 
a horse.—Sir W. Scott, Peteril of the 
Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Brid’oison [ Bree.dwoy.zdnq'], astupid 
judge in the Jfariaye de Faro, a comedy 
in French, by Beaumarchais (1784). 

Bridoon (Corporal), in lieutenant 
Nosebag’s iment.—Sir W. Scott, 
Watrerley (time, George I.). 


Brien’nius (Nicephorus), the Ceesar 
of the Grecian empire, and husband of 
Anna Comne’na (daughter of Alexius 
Comninus, emperor of Greece).—Sir W. 
Scott, Cuunt Robert of Paris (time. 
Rufus). 


Brigado’re (4 syi.), sir Guyon's 
horse. e word means ‘‘Golden bridle.” 
—Spenser, Fuéry Quecn, v. 3 (1596). 


Brizgan’tes (3 sy/.), called by Drayton 
Brij'ants, the people of Yorkshire, Lan- 
cashire, Westmoreland, Cumberland, and 
Durham. 


Where in the Britons’ rule of yore the Br 
The powerful Bi tablicned 8 Matcrsboeiaad 
| Horthumdria). 
Drayton, Pelyeldion, xvi. (418). 











BRITANRNIA. 


for ome of the king’s court favourites, 
some say Frances Theresa Stuart, duchess 
of Richmend, and others Barbara Villiers, 
duchese of Cleveland. 


Britannia, the name of the ship under 
the command of captain Albert, in Fal- 
eoner’s poem called } It was 
dashed to pieces on the projecting verge of 
eape Colunna, the most southern point 
of Attica (1756). 


British History of Geoffrey of 
Monmouth, is a translation of a Welsh 
Chronicle. It is in nine books, and con- 
tains a “history” of the Britons and 


Welsh from Brutus, dson of 
Trojan Aneas to the death of Cadwallo 
or wallader in 688. This Geoffrey 


was first archdeacon of Monmouth, and 
then bishop of St. Asaph. The general 
outline of the work is the same as that 
given by Nennius three centuries pre- 
viously. Geoffrey's Chronicle, published 
about 1148, formed a basis for many 
subsequent historical worke. A com- 
pendium by Diceto is published in Gale's 
Chronicles. 


British Lion (The), the spirit or 
pugnacity of the British nation, as o 
posed to John Bull, which symbolizes the 
substantiality, obstinacy, and solidity of 
the British nation, with all its prejudices 
and national peculiarities. oO rouse 
John Bull is to tread on his corns, to 
rouse the British Lion is to biow the war- 
trumpet in hie ears. The British Lion also 
means the most popular celebrity of the 
British nation for the time being. 

Our giorioes coantitution Is owing to the hahit which 
the Britis: Lion observes of sitting over his wine after 
dinner.— William Jerdan. 

British Soldiers’ Battle (The), 
me battle of Inkerman, November 5, 
1854. 


For stabborn valour, for true old English resolution to 
fight it out to the last, amid every disadvantage and 
against almost overwhelming odds, men will for 

4 to Imberman, “the British Soldiers’ Battle."—Sir 
Creasy, The Fifteen Decisive Batties (preface). 

Brit’omart, the representative of 
ehastity. She was the daughter and 
heiress of king Ryence of Wales, and her 


legend forms the third book of the Faéry 
Quren. One day, looking into Venus's 
looking-glass, given by Merlin to her 


father, she saw therein sir Artegal, and fell 
in love with him. Her nurse Glaucé 
(2 syi.) tried by charms ‘‘to undo her 
love,” but ‘‘love that is in gentle heart 
begun no idle charm can remove.” Find- 
ing her ‘‘charms” ineffectual, she took 
her to Merlin’s cave in Carmarthen, and 


185 





BROBDINGNAG. 
the magician told her she would be the 
mother of a line of kings (the Tudors), 
and after twice 400 vears one of her 
offspring, ‘‘a royal virgin,” would shake 
the power of Spain. Glaucé now sug- 
gested that they should start in quest of 
sir Artegal, and Britomart donned the 
armour of An’gela (queen of the Anyles), 
which she found in her father’s armoury, 
and taking a magic spear which “ nothing 
could resist,” she sallied forth. Her 
adventures allegorize the triumph of 
chastity over impurity: Thus in Castle 
Joyous, Malacasta (/ust), not knowing her 
sex, tried to seduce her, ‘“‘ but she flces 
youthful lust, which wars inst the 
soul.” She next overthrew inel, son 
of Cym’oent. Then made her appearance 
as the Squire of Dames. Her last achieve- 
ment was the deliverance of Am/’oret 
(reafely love) from the enchanter Basirane. 

er i is deferred to bk. v. 6, 
when she tilted with sir Artegal, who 
‘‘shares away the ventail of her heimet 
with his sword,” and was about to strike 
again when he became so amazed at her 
beauty that he thought she must bea god- 
dess. She bade the knight remove his 
helmet, at once recognized him, consented 
“to be his love, and to take him for her 
lord.”—Spenser, Faéry Queen, iii. (1590), 

She charmed at once and tamed the heart, 
lnenmparabie Britomart. 
Sir W. Score 


Briton (Colonel), a Scotch officer, 
who sees donna Isabella jump from 
a window in order to escape from a mar- 
riage she dislikes. The colonel catches 
her, and takes her to the house of donna 
Violante, her friend. Here he calls upon 
her, but don Felix, the lover of Violante, 
supposing Violante to be the object of his 
Visits, becomes jealous, till at the end the 
mystery is cleared up, and a double 
marriage is the result.—Mrs. Centlivre, 
The Wonder (1714). 


Broadside (A). To constitute a 
broadside, the matter should be printed 
on the entire sheet, on one side of the 
paper only, not in columns, but in one 
measure. It matters not which way of 
the paper the printing is displayed, or 
what the size of type, provided the whole 
is presented to the eye in -one view. 
Although the entire matter of a broadside 
must be contained on one side of a sheet 
of paper, an endorscment may be allowed. 


Brob’dingnag, a country of enor- 
mons giants, te whom Gulliver wasa tiny 
dwarf. They were as tali ‘‘as an or 








BROWN. 


BRULGRUDDERY. - 





Nicholas Nickleby. John Browdie marries 
Matilda Price, o millers danghter.—C, 
Dickens, Nicholas Nickleby (1838). 

Brown ( Vanbeest), lieutenant of Dirk 
Aatteraick.—Sir W. Scott, Guy Man- 
rng (time, George IT.). 

Breen (Jonathan), landlord of the 
Black Bear at Darlington. Here Frank 
Osbaldistone meets Rob Roy at dinner. 
— W. Scott, Bob Loy (time, George 
ape 

Proen (Mrs.), the widow of the brother- 
a-law of the Hon. Mrs. Skewton. She 
had ene danghter, Alice Marwood, who 
was first cousin to Edith (Mr. Dombey's 
second wife). Mrs. Brown lived in great 

verty, ber only known vocation bein; 
‘to etrip children of their clothes, whic’ 
ebe sold or pawned."—C, Dickens, Dom- 
bey and Som (1546). 


Brown (Mrsz.), a “Mrs. John Bull," 
with all the practical sense, kind- 
heartedness, absence of conventionality, 
and the prejudices of a well-to-do but 
balf-educated Englishwoman of the middle 
shop class. She passes her opinions on 
all current events, and travels about, 
taking with her all her prejudices, and 
despising everything which is not Eng- 
lish.—Arthur Sketchley [Rev. George 
Rose]. 

Broen (abot) illustrated some of 
Dickens's novels, and took the pseudonym 
of “ Phiz " (1812- ). 


Brown the Younger ( Thomas), the 


nom di plume of ‘Thomas Moore, in The: 


Tico-peany Posl-bay, a series of witty and 
very popular satires on the prince regent 
(afterwerds George IV.), his ministers, 
and bis Leon companions. Also in J'‘e 
Fodje Family in Para, and in The Fudyes 
in England (1835). 

Brown, Jones, and Rebinson, 
three Enyvlishmen who travel toyether, 
Their alventures, by Richard Doyle, were 
pablished in funch. In them is held up 
to ridicule the guwcherie, the contracted 
notions, the vulgarity, the conceit, and 
the general spobbism of the middle-class 
Eaglish abroad. 


Browns. To astonish the Brorns, 
to do or suy something regardless of the 
tnnevance it may cause or the shock it 
say giveto Mre. Grundy. Anne Boleyn 

a whole clan of Browns, or “ country 
cousins,” who were welcomed at court in 
the seiga of Elizabeth. The queen, how- 


ee — eeEeEOEOEOEOEeEeeeEeee 


ever, was quick to see what was gauche, 

and did not scrople to reprove them for 

uncourtly manners. Her plainness of 

fs aie used quite to “‘astonish the 
rowns,” 


Browne (Genera!) pays a Visit to 
lord Woodville. His bedroom for the 
night is the “‘ tapestried chamber," where 
he sees the apparition of “the lady in 
the sacque,” and next morning relates his 
adventure.—Sir W. Scott, The Tapestricd 
Chumber (time, George I1I.). 
Brownlow, 4 most benevolent old 
tleman, who rescues Oliver Twist from 
is vile associates. He refuses to believe 
in Oliver's guilt of theft, althongh ap- 
neces were certainly against him, and 
e even takes the boy into his service.— 
C. Dickens, Uliver Twist (1837). 


Brox’mouth (JoAn), a neighbour of 
Happer the miller.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe 
Monastery (time, Elizabeth), 

Bruce (Tie), an epic poem by John 
Barbour (1520-1995). 

Bru'el, the name of the goose, in the 
tale of Reynard the For. The word 
means the “ Little roarer" (1498). 


Bru'in, the name of the bear, in the 
beast-epic called Reynard the For, Hence 
a bear in ceneral, 

The word means the “brown one” 
(1498). 

Lru'in, one of the leaders arrayed 
aces Iludibras, He 1a meant for one 

alyol, a Newgate butcher, who obtained 
& captain's commission for valour at 
Naseby. He marched next to Orsin 
[fs sino Grualine, landlord of the Lear- 
parunae at Southwark ].—S. Butler, //udi- 

rua, 1, 3. 


ruin (Urs. and Afr.), deughter and 
son-in-law to sir Jacob Jollup. Mr, 
liruin is a hoge bear of a fellow, and rules 
his wife with scant courtesy,—S. Foote, 
The Muyor of Gurratt (1763), 


Brulgrud'dery (Dennis), landlord 
of the ed Cow, on Muckslush Heath, 
He calls himself “an Irish gintleman 
bred and born.” He was “brought up to 
the church,” ie. to be a church beaille, 
but lost his place for snoring at aermon- 
time. He is o sot, with a very hind 
heart, and is honest in great matters, ol- 
though in business be will palm off an 
old cock for a young capon. 

Mrs, Bruliyrwidery, wife of Dennis, and 
widow of Mr. Skinnygauge, former lanc 











BRUTUS. 





fF 
Es 
t 
E 


An Brute should be 
the death of both his parents; his mother 
died in child-birth, and at the age of 
15 Brute shot his father accidentally 
Longa, be collected a band of old Trojans 
a old Trojans 
and landed at T in Devonahire. 
Ha wife was Innogen, danghter of Pan- 
dra’ous king of Greece. His tale is told 
at length in the Chronicles of Geoffrey of 
Monmouth, in the first song of Dray- 
ton's Polyolion, and in Spenser's Fatry 
Queen, ii. 
Brute (Se John), & coarse, surly, ill- 


wo “isa 
tady, and a virtnous lady, but yet I hate 
her. In a dranken frolic he interce a 


: asked his name, he gives itas 
Jehn te,” and is dismiseed. 


-house valour of “sir John Brite ° (Garrick’s 
te wel] conerasted with the Sine-ledy alrs and 


sflectation Surely this naust t 
ageiies to “ indy Fanciful,” but not to ‘lady Brote. }-R. 

Brute Green-Shield, the successor 
ef Ebranc king of Britain. The mythi- 
eal line is: (1) Brute, d- 
is son; (3) 
Locrin; (4) 
Ebranc ; (5) Brute Green-Shield. Then 


follow in order Leil, Hudibras, Bladud, _ 


Leir [Shakespeare's ‘‘ Lear”], etc. 
. . - of ber couragsues k 


Brute’s City, London, called Trino- 
vant (New Troy). 

The goodly Thames near which Brute’s city stands 

Drayton, Polyeldion, xvi. (1613). 

(Of course Zrinovunt is so called from 
the Trinovantés or Trinobantés, a Celtic 
tribe setticd in Essex and Middlesex 
when Casar invaded the island.) 


Bru'ton Street (London), so called 
from Bruton, in Somersetshire, the seat of 
John lord Berkeley of Stratton. 


Lucius Junius), first cones! 

his own twe 

sons to death for joining a conspiracy to 

restore Tarquin to the throne, from which 

he had been banished. This subject has 

been dramatized by N. Lee (1679) and 

John H. ral af under the title of 
) 


or The Fal Tarquin (1820). Alfieri 
has an Italian y on the same sub- 
ect. In French we have the ies of 
Asnault (1792) and Ponsard (1843). (See 
Lucretia.) 

The elder Kean cn ene cerasion ennesnted te at 
the Giasgow Theatre fer his son's benefit. play 


‘or murder, and to 
prevent a rescue caused him to be exe- 
cuted from the window of his own house 


brother, king Sancho IV., and having 
Guzman’s son in his power; threatened to 
kill him unless Tarifa was given up to 
him. Guzman replied, ‘‘ Sooner than bo 
guilty of such treason I will lend Juan 


” and so 
saving tossed his 
Sad to say, Juan took the dagger, and 
assassinated the young man th d 
then (1258-1309). 


Brutus (Jfarcus), said to be the son of 
Julius Cesar by Servilia. 
Brutus’ bastard hand 
Btabb’d Jultus Cusar. 
Shakespeare, 3 Henry FJ. act tv. sc. 1 (1081). 
This Brutus is introduced by Shake- 
speare in his tragedy of Julius Casur, 
and the t endows him with every 
uality of a true patriot. He loved 
r much, but he loved Kome more. 


Joba P. Kemble seems to me to play best those 
characters {u which there is a ominating tinge uf 
. The patnectian pride of 


Brutus. Et tu, Brute. Shakespeare, 
on the authority of SuetOnius, pate Came 








BUCKLE. 


Buckle (Put isto into pawn at 
bo aie of 45 per cont’ iaterest e 

_ Buckle (Tc talk), to talk about mar- 
riage. 





I web a 
the gat on 


te dinacr whe talked buckle to me, and 
ether side talked ball.—Téva, 154. 


(London) so called 
grocer Old and New 
of Elizabeth and 
ong a by Buck rebury was chiefly 
inhabi druggists, who sold green 
end dried herbs. Hence Falstaff says to 
Mis. Ford, he could not assume the wa 


ping hawthorn buds (ie, 
ty to 


}, who smell like Bucklers- 

simple - time.” — Shakespeare, 
Merry Wives of Windsor, act iii. sc. 3 
(1601). 


Bude ht, a light devised by Mr. 
Garey of Bude, in Cornwall. Intense 
light is obtained by supplying the bummer 
with an abundant stream of oxygen. 
The principle of the Argand lamp is also 
a free supply of oxygen. Gurncy’s in- 
vention is too expensive to be of general 
service, but an intense light is obtained 
by reflectors and refractors called Bude 
lights, although they wholly differ in 
principle from Gurney’s invention. 


Buffoon (Zhe Pul ti Hugh Peters 
is so called by Dugdale (1599-1660). 


Bug J , ® negro, ionately in 
love with a white woman, but tempering 
he wildest passion with the deepest re- 
pect.—Victor Hugo, Bug Juryal (a 
sovel). 

Bulbul,an Oriental name for a night- 
tIngale. When, in The Princess (by 
Tennyson), the prince, disguised as a 
woman, enters with his two friends 
(similarly disguised) into the college to 
which no man was admitted, he sings; 
end the princess, suspecting the fraud, 
save to him, ‘* Not for thee, O bulbul, any 
rose of Gulistan shall burst her veil,’ t.e. 
‘*() singer, do not suppose that any woman 
will be taken in by such a flimsy deceit.” 
The bulbul loved the rose, and Gulistan 
means the ‘‘ garden of roses.” The prince 
was the bulbul, the colleye was Gulistan, 
and the princess the rose suught.—Tenny- 
son, The Princess, iv. 

Bulbul-He’szar, the talking bird, 
which was joined in singing by all the 
sung-birds in the neighbourhood. (Sce 
TaALaixe Binp.)—Aradan 2S iyhts (‘The 
Two Sisters,” the last story). 


Bulis, mother of Egyp’ius of Thessaly. 


141 


a TS i aL 


BULL-DOG. 


Egypius entertained a criminal love for 
Timandra, the mother of Neoph’ron, and 
Neophron was guilty of a similar passion 
ulis, Jupiter changed Egypius and 
Neophron into vultures, Bulis into a duck, 
and Timandra into a sparrow-hawk.— 
Classic Mythology. 

Bull (John), the English nation per- 
sonified, and hence any typical English- 
man. 





. Noman a better house, nor epent his 
generocsiy. thay. 6. 


{The subject of this History is the 
“s ish Succession” in the reigns of 
Louis XIV. and queen Anne.) 

Mrs. Bull, queen Anne, ‘ very apt to be 
choleric.” hearing that Philip Baboon 
(Philippe duc d’ Anjou) was to succeed to 
lord Strutt’s estates (ic. the Spanish 
throne), she said to John Bull: 

** You evt, you loiter about ale-houses and taverns, spend 


liveries at Lewis Baboun's shop ‘ France|? .. . Fie upoa 
ie: Up, mant... VU sell my shift before I'l) be so 
used.“—Chap. 4 


John Bul?s Mother, the Church of 
England. 


John had a mother, whom he loved and honoured ex- 
tremely; a discreet, grave, sober, good-conditiuned., cleanly 
old gentloewoman as ever lived. She was none of your 
cruse-graiued, termagant, scolding jades . . . always 
the contrary, she was of 


ecensuring your conduct .. . on 
a meek spirit... and put the beet constrrection ujon 
the wurd« and actions of her neighbours... . She neither 


wore a ruff, forehead cluth, nor high-crowned hat... . 
am to patch and paint, yet she loved cleanlin 

- » « She was no bess genteel in her behaviour . . . lu the 

due mean between one of your affected curt ing 

formality, and your il-mannered creatwesa whic 

regard to the cummon rules of civility.—Pt. ib 1. 


John Bulls Sister Pey, the Scotch, in 
love with Jack (Cultin). 

John had a sister, a poor girl that had been reared... 
on oatmeal and water. . . and lodged in a garret exposed 
to the north wind. . . . However, this usage... gave 
her a hardy cunstitution.. .. Peg had, indeed, sou.e udd 
huiwours and conical antipathies, .. . sbe would {alot at 
the seund of an onan, and yet dana and friak at the 
nulse of a bagpipy.—Dr, Arbuthnot, History af Johan 
Bali, U. 2 (1712). 


Bulls, ludicrous blunders. 

M tales, witty jests, and ridiculous balls.—Aangues 
4 Muste (1683), “y 

That such a poem should be toothless and affirm to be 
a bull.—Milton. A polugy for Smnectynvnuus (1643). 

Bull-dog, rough iron. 


A man was putting some bu/!-doz into the relia, Whew 
his spade t hetween the rolls, — limes, 


ve LO 





nei. eee verything must 
way or *s no getting any peace.” 
frequented the minor the- 
atres, and > sa notions of sentimental 
e told Wilelmina, if she 
refused to marry Robin : 
Ze ert 1s een Oy ae Se 
mie. maean. paltry, low, Ul-bred notions 


{your father's} family, the 
fhe Waterman (1774). 


Bungen [Bung-'n], the street in 
Hamelin dows w a the pied piper 
Banting led the rats into the nver Weser 
and the children into a cave in the moun- 
taiu Koppen . No music of any kind 
t< permitted to be played in this street. 


(Friar), personification of 
Pegcen: oe of also in the fifteenth 


century. 
*,° In The Last of the Barons, by lord 
Lytton, friar Bungey is an historical 
, and is said to have ‘raised 
mists and vapours,” which befriended 
Edward IV. at the battle of Barnet. 
Buns (Captain Join or Jack), 
owner of the Cautious Claro. Captain 
Cattle i him “a philosopher, 
and quite an oracle.” Captain Bunaby 
had one ‘‘ stati and one revolving 
eye,” a very red face, and was extremely 
taciturn. e ca was entrapped by 
Mrs. McStinger (the termagant landlady 
of his friend captain Cuttle) into marry- 
ne bee Dickens, Dombey and 
(1846). 


Bunting, the vied piper of Hamelin. 
> was so called he iis areas. 


BUBLEIGH. 





, the brazier of Penzance. a 
in his manners, but most dev y 
attached to his master, by whom he was 
taken from the workhouse. John Bar 
kept his master’s ‘‘ books” for twenty- 
two years with the utmost fidelity.—G. 
Colman, jun., John Bull (1805). 


Buyr’bon (i.e. Henri IV. of Frosh’ 
He is betrothed to Fordclis (Francs), 
who has been enticed from him by Gran- 
torto (rebellion). Being assailed on all 
sides by a rabble rout, Fordelis is carried 
off by “‘hellrake hounds.” The rabble 
batter Burbon's shield ( ism), 
and compel him to throw it away. Sir 
Artegal (rijht or ice) rescues the 
“‘recreant knight” from the mo 
blames him for his anknightly folly in 
puewing Sway his shield (of fatth). 
Talus (the executive) beats off the hell- 
hounds, gets possession of the lady, and 
though she flouts Burbon, he catches her 
up upon his steed and rides off with her. 
—Spenser, Faéry Queen, v. 2 (1596). 


Burchell (r.), alias sir William 
Thornhill, about 30 years of age. 
When Dr. Primrose, the vicar of Wake- 
field, loses £1400, Mr. Burchell presents 
himself as a broken-down gentleman, 
and the doctor offers him his purse. 
He turned his back on the two flash ladies 
who talked of their high-life doings, and 
cried ‘‘ Fudge!” after all their boastings 
and remarks. Mr. Burchell twice rescued 
Sophia Primrose, and ultimately married 
her. 5) Goldsmith, Vicar of Wakefield 
(1765). 


Burgundy (Charles the Bold, duke 
of), introduced by sir W. Scott in Quentin 
rd and in Anne of Geierstein. The 

latter novel contains the duke's defeat at 
Nancy’, and his death (time, Edward IV.). 


Bu'ridan’s Ass. A man of inde- 
cision is so called from the hypothetical 
ass of Buridan, the Greek sophist. Bu- 
ridan maintained that ‘if an ass could 
be placed between two hay-stacks in such 
a way that its choice was evenlv balanced 
between them, it would starve to death, 
for there would be no motive why he 
abou choose the one and reject the 

er.” 


Burleigh (William Cecil, lord), lord 
treasurer to quecn Elizabeth (1520-1598), 
introduced by sir W. Scott in his his- 
Sen called Kenilworth (time, 


)- 
He is «no of the principal characters 











SUBY BODY. 145 BYRON AND MARY. 
and as both i and Butler Revo. HMr.), vaili 
considered he fod got the | chaplai ides. Sir W. Scots sce 
ventict, both were fully satisfied, ‘‘a Suryeon's Daughter (tine, rge II. 
thing om Parallel in al} the annéls of Butler (Rewben), a presbyterian min- 
ti — Balen Remar | lite married i Jeanie Deane 
° jamin But of ben. 
Busy Body (The), acomedy by Mrs. brie ; y called “ Bible 
Ceatlivre aa 8) nat a Francis soiree wd Butler,” Reuben 
{grardian of father of min. 
of Charies), a man 66 year years old, Widow J: th Butler, Reuben’s grand- 
wishes to for the sake | mother and Stephen’ wife. 
of her money. Miranda loves and is Ei hernias or Femie Butler, Reuben's 


But are Ye sure the News is 
TrueP This exquisite lyric is gene generally 
ascribed to William Micki 
Tyler, in Good Woods, Marcy, 1969 
ascribes it to Jean Adam of Crawfurd’s 
Dyke. Sie says, ‘‘Colin and Jean” are 
Colin and Jean Campbell < of Crawfurd's 
Dyke—the Jean being the poetess and 
writer of the poem. 

The), Achmet pasha, who 
struck off the heads of seven of his wives 
tt once. He defended Acre against Napo- 

John ninth lord Clifford, called ‘‘ The 
Black Clifford ” (died 1461). 

Oliver de Clisson, constable of France 
(1820-1407). 

Butcher (The Bloody), the duke of 
Camberland, second son of George II. ; 80 
called for his great barbarities in sup- 
pressing the rebellion of Charles Edward, 
the young pretender (1726-1765). 

Butcher of England, John Tiptoft, 
earl of Worcester, a man of great learni 


and a patron of learning (died 1470). 
of Edward IV. be ordered 


fopeled forty Lancastrian prisoners at put 
) the infsat children of the Irish chief a, 
and eoquired the nickname of “ The of Eaginnd. 


David and Rev'on Butler, Reuben's sons. 
—Sir W. Scott, Heart "of Midlothian 
(time, George II.). 

Buttercup (John), a milkman.—W. 
Brough, A P tna Smock Frock. 


Buxo’ma, a shepherdess with whom 
Cuddy was in love. Pa 


Bus’fusz (Serjeant), the pleader re- 
tained by Dodson and Fogg for the 
plaintiff in the celebrated case oF of ‘‘ Bar- 
dell v. Pickwick.” Serjeant Buzfuz is a 
driving, chaffinc, masculine bar orator, 
who proved that Mr. Pickwick's note 
about ‘‘chope and tomato sauce” was a 
declaration of love ; and that his reminder 
“not to forget the warming-pan” was 
only a flimsy cover to express the ardour 
of his affection. Of course the defendant 
was found guilty by the enlightened j ery: 
(is unior was Skimpin.)—C. Dic 
tchuick Papers (1836). 


Bus’sard L (The); § in The Hind and the 
Panther, by ond en (pt. iii.), is meant 
for Dr. Uilbe urnet, whose figure was 
lusty (1643-1715). 


Bycorn, a fat cow, so fat that its sides 
were nigh to bursting, but this is no 
wonder, for its food was “good and 
enduring husbands,” of which there is 
good store. (See Curcui-VAcue.) 

n (The Polish), Adam Mickie- 
wicz (1798-1855). 

Byron (The Russian), Alexander Sei- 
geivitch Puschkin (1799-1837). 

Byron (Miss Harrict), a beautiful and 
accomplished woman of high rank, de- 
votedly attached to sir Charles Grandison, 


whom ultimately she marries.— 
son, Sir Charles (rrandisos (1758). 


Byronand Mary. Th: “‘ Mary ” of 
L 





CADWALLON. 143 





im the twelfth century.—Southey, Madoc 
(1806). 


Cadwal’lon, the favourite bard of 
ri io ea de He entered the sere 
vice of sir e Lacy. ander 
the cecained nama of Renault Vidal.— 
i Betrothed (time, 


i 


e 


W. Scott, The 
Benry I1.). 


Cee’cias, the north-west wind. Ar- 
= is the north-east, and Bo’reas the 


loud 
turn. 
Mila, Paradies Lest, x. 030, ete. (1068). 


Ceslesti*ua, the bride of sir Walter 
Terill. The king commanded sir Walter 
to bring his bride to court on the night 
of her marriage. Her father, to save 
her honour, gave her a mixture supposed 
to be poison, but in reality it was only a 
sleeping draught. In due time the bride 
recovered, to the amusement of the king 
and delight of her husband.—Th. Dekker, 
Satiro-mastiz (1602). 


Ceo’neus [Se.nuce] was born of the 
e sex, and was originally called 
Ceenis. 
all lovers, but was one day surprised by 
Neptune, who offered her violence, 
her sex, converted her name to 
Ceneus, and gave her (or rather him) the 
gift of being invulnerable. In the wars 
of the Lap'ithe, Ceneus offended Jupiter, 
and was overwhelmed under a pile of 
wood, but came forth converted into a 
yellow bird. neas found Ceneus in the 
infernal regions restored to the feminine 
sex. The order is inverted by sir John 
Davies: 
And how was Cosneus made at first a man, 
And then & woman, then a inan again. 
Orchestra, 


eto. (1618). 

Ceasar, said to be a 
meaning ‘‘an elephant,” ‘‘Qudd avus 
ejus in Africa manu propria occidit 
elenkantem " (Plin. Hist. viii. 7). There 
are old coins stam on the one side 
with DIVUS JULIUS, the reverse hav- 
ing S.P.Q.R. with an repnants in allu- 
sion to the African original. 

i pes ieee ree oe ae 
wep Omar” dicebatur, quad tatamen et iat 

—Casaubon, 4 

Souewhere I've read, but where I forget, be could dic- 
Seven letters at once, at the same time writing his 
Better be rat, he said, in a little Iberian village 
ee he was right when 





| millions. 


Vain of her beauty, she rejected | 


Punic word | 





CZSAR. 


Twice om be yaerriat ‘before: ba wae 38, and many eee 


Battles £00 be fought, and a thoesand ¢fties be esm- 
But wen nally stabbed by his friend the orntor Brutus, 
Longfellow, Courtship ef Miles Standish, ii. 
(Longfellow refers to Pliny, vii. 25, 
where he says that Cesar “‘ could employ, 
at one and the same time, his ears to 


| listen, his eyes to read, his hand to wri 


and his tongue to dictate.” He is sai 
to have conquered 3800 nations; to have 
taken 800 cities, to have slain in battle a 
million men, and to have defeated three 
i See below, Casar’s Wars.) 
Caesar and his Fortune. Plutarch says 
that Cesar told the captain of the vessel 
in which.he sailed that no harm could 
come to his ship, for that he had *‘ Cesar 
and his fortune with him.” 
Seat ee 
1 Benry V1. act 1. os. 3 (1880). 


when Julius Cesar was in r 
being upset into the sea by the overload- 
ing of a boat, he swam to the nearest 
ship, with his book of Commentaries in 
his hand.—Suetonius. 

Cesar’s Wars. The carnage occa- 
tenes by the wars of Cesar is usually 
estimated at a million fighting men. He 
won 320 triumphs, and fousht 500 bat- 
tles. See above, Cassar (Caius Julius). 

What millions died that Cusar might be t 
Campbell, The Pleasures of Hepes, il. (1790). 

Casar’s Famous Despatch, “ Veni, vidi, 
vici,” written to the senate to announce 
his overthrow of Pharnacés king of 
Pontus. This ‘‘ hop, skip, and a jump” 
was, however, the work of three days. 

Caesar's Death. Both Chaucer and 
Shakespeare say that Julius Cesar was 
killed in the capitol. Thus Polonius says 
to Hamlet, ‘‘I did enact Julius Cesar ; 
I was killed i’ the capitol” (/umlet, act 
iii. sc. 2). And Chaucer says: 

This Jullus to the capitol4é wente ... 

And in the capitole anon him Bente 

This faleé Brutus, and bis other soon, 

Anda sticked him with bod&Skins anon. 
Canterbury Tales (‘The Mook's Tale,” 1388), 

Plutarch expressly tells us he was 
killed in Pompey’s Porch or Piazza; and 
in Julius Ceasar Shakespeare says he fell 
‘Se’en at the base of Pompey’s statue” 
(act iil. sc. 2). 


Cesar, the Mephistoph’elés of Byron's 
unfinished drama called Zhe Deformed 
Transformed. This Cesar changes Ar- 
nold (the hunchback) into the form of 
Achilles, and assumes himeelf the de- 
formity and agliness which Arnold casts 


oer 


CAIN-COLOURED BEARD. 


Judas in old tapestries and pai : 

in pain are 
siwapn represceted with yollivw beats. 
Be hath a Nettie wee face, with a little yellow beard: a 
Cain-coloured beard. Merry Wea Wf 
Wésedsor, act 1. os. 4 (1001). 


Cain’s Hill. Maundrel tells us that 
** some four miles from Damascus is a 


hill, to be the same on which 
Can slew his brother Abel.”— Travels, 
181. 

te that where Damesces was founded, Kayn 
demghe his beother.—Sir John Manodeville, Traceis, 


Caina [ Xa.1’.nah), the place to which 
: femal: 


murderers are 


Caine waits 
The soul whe apills man's life. 
Darte, Mell, v. (1300). 

Cair’bar, son of Borbar-Duthol, “lord 
ef Atha” (Co t), the most potent 
of the race of the Fir-bo ine ot tre. 
rebellion against i re- 
land,” murdered him (Zemora, i.), and 
usurped the throne; but Fingal (who was 
distantly related to Cormac) went to Ire- 
land with an army, to restore the ancient 
dynasty. Cairbar invited Oscar (Fingal's 
grandson) to a feast, and Oscar accepted 
the invitation, but Cairbar having pro- 
voked a quarrel with his guest, the two 
fought, and both were slain. 

“Thy heart ts arock. Thy thoughts are dark and bloody. 


Those art the brother of Cathmor .. . but soul ts not 
Uke thine, thoa feeble hand in Aght. The of my 
Does is stained by thy “—Ovwian, T 


Cair’bre (2 aul), sometimes called 
** Cair’bar,” third king of Ireland, of the 
Caledonian line. (There was also a Cair- 
bar, “lord of Atha,” a Fir-bolg, quite a 
different person.) 

The Caledonian line ran thus: (1) 
Conar, first ‘‘ king of lreland ;” (2) Cor- 
mac I., his son; (3) Cairbre, his son; (4) 
Artho, his son ; (5) Cormac II., his son; 
(6) Ferad-Artho, his cousin.—Ossian. 


Cai’us (2 syl.), the assumed name of 
the earl of Kent when he attended on 
kiug Lear, after Goneril and Re’yan re- 
fused to entertain their ee father with 
his suite.—Shakespeare, Ktny Lear (1605). 


Cai'us (Dr.), a French physician, 
whose servants are by and Mrs. 
Quickly.—Shakespeare, Merry Wives of 
Windsor (1601). 

The clipped English of Dr. Caius —Macaulay, 

Cai’us College (Cambridge), origin- 
ally Gonville Hall. In 1587 it was 
erected into a college by Dr. John Key, of 


149 








CALDERON. 


Norwich, and called after him Caius of 
Key's College. 


Cakes (Land of). Scotland, famous 
for ita oatmeal cakes. 


Calandri’no, a character in the De- 
cameron, whose “‘ misfortunes have made 
all Europe merry for four centuries.” 
— Boccaccio, viii. 9 (1850). 


Calan’tha, princess of Sparta, loved 
by Ith’oclés. Ithoclés induces his sister, 
Penthe’a, to break the matter to the prin- 
cess. This she does; the princess is won 
to requite his love, and the king consents 
to the union. During a grand court cere- 
mony Calantha is informed of the sudden 
d of her father, another announces to 
her that Penthea had starved herself to 
death from hatred to Bcss’anés, and a 
third follows to tell her that Ithoclés, her 
betrothed husband, has been murdered. 
Calantha bates no jot of the ceremony, 
but continues the dance even to the bitter 
end. The coronation ensues, but scarcely 
is the ceremony over than she can sup- 

rt the strain no longer, and, broken- 
earted, she falls dead.—John Ford, Zhe 
Broken Heart (1683). 


Calan’'the (3 sy/.), the betrothed wife 
of Pyth’ias the Syracusian.—J. Baaim, 
Damon and Pythius (1825). 


Cala'ya, the third paradise of the 
Hindis. 

Cal’culator (The). Alfragan the 
Arabian astronomer was so called (died 
A.D. 820). Jedediah Buxton, of Elmeton, 
in Derbyshire, was also called ‘‘ The Cal- 
culator” (1705-1775). George Bidder, 
Zerah Colbum, and a girl named Hey- 
wood (whose father was a Mile End 
weaver), all exhibited their calculating 
powers in public. 

Pascal, in 1642, made a_ calculating 
machine, which was improved by Leibnitz. 
C. Babbage also invented a calculating 
machine (1790-1871). 

Calcut’ta is Aali-cuttah (‘‘temple of 
the goddess Kali’). 

Cal’deron (Don Pedro), a Spani 
poet born at Madrid (1600-1681). As 
the age of 52 he became an ecclesiastic, 
and composed religious poetry only. Ab 
together he wrote about 1000 dramatic 
pieces. 

All Calderon and greiter partof Lope) 
Byron, Don Juan, 1. 1) (18198. 

*,* ‘‘Lope” that is Lopé de Vega, the 

Spanish poet (1562-1635). ” 








CALES. 181 





CALISTA. 





that the MMahons were descended from 


the Fitz-Ursulas, a noble English family. 
iota (2 syi.). So gipsies call them- 
ves. 


Beltran Crusade, count of the Cailss. 
. The Spanish Student. 

Calf-ekin. Fools and jesters used to 
wear a calf-skin coat buttoned down the 
back, and hence Faulconbridge says inso- 
lently to the arch-duke of Austria, who 
had acted very basely towards Richard 
Lion-heart : 


Thow wear a Hon's hide! dof it for shame, 
And a ealf-ckin on those recreant limba, 
King John, act ill. sc. 1 (1808). 

Caliianax, sa humorous old lord 
father af Aspatia the troth-plight wife of 
Amin’tor. It is the d of Aspatia 
which gives name to the drama.—lieau- 
neo Fletcher, The Maid's Tragedy 
(1610). 


Cal'i @ savage, deformed slave 
of Prospero (the rightful duke of Milan 
and of Miranda). Caliban is the 


“freckled whelp” of the witch Syc’orax. 
Mrs. Shelley's “ Frankenstein” is a sort 
a 609), nh Shakespeare, The Tempest 


Cal’iburn, same as Excalibur, the 
famous sword of king Arthur. 


Ouward Arthur paced, with hand 
Ou Caliburn's resistiess brand. 
Sie W. Beutt, Bridal of Triermain 1113). 


with great fury into the thickest uf the enemys 


a age om, ay of ee 
Britiah Htetory, tx. 4 (1143). 

Cal’idore (Sir), the type of courtesy, 
and the hero of the sixth book of Spenser’s 
huéry Queen. The model of this character 
was sir Philip Sydney. Sir Calidore 
(3 syd.) starts in quest of the Blatant Beast, 
which had escaped from sir Artegal 
(bk. v. 12). He first compels the lady 
Iiria’na to discontinue her discourteous 
toll of ‘* the locks of ladies and the beards 
of knights” (canto 1). Sir Calidore falls in 
luve with Pastorella, a shepherdess, dresses 
like a shepherd, and assists his lady-love 
im keeping sheep. Pastorella being taken 
captive by brigands, sir Calidore rescues 
her, and leaves her at Belyard Castle to 
be taken care of, while he goes in quest of 
the Blatant Beast. He finds the monster 
after a time, the havoc it had made 
with religious houses, and after an obsti- 
nate fight succeeds in muzzling it. and 


fH 


dragging it in chains after him, but it 
loose again, as it did before (canto Asia 
Spenser, Faéry Queen, vi. (1596). 

Str Gewain was the “ Calidore” of the Round Table.— 


*,* ‘ Pastorella” is Frances Walsi 
(daughter of sir Francis), whom sir Philip 

ydney married. After the death of sir 
Philip she married the earl of Essex. The 
‘Blatant Beast” is what we now call 
“6 Mrs. Grundy.” 


Cc orant, an Egyptian giant and 
cannibal, who used to entrap travellers 
with an invisible net. Jt was the very 
same net that Vulcan made to catch 
and Venus with. Mercury stole it for 
the purpose of entrapping Chloris, and left 
it in the temple of Anu’bis, whence it was 
stolen by Caligorant. One day Astolpho, 
by a blast of his magic horn, so frightened 
the giant that he got entangled in his own 
net, and being made captive was despoiled 
of it.—Ariosto, O Furioso (1516). 


Cali'no, a famous French utterer of 
bulls. 


Caliph means “ vicar" or representa- 
tive of Mahomet. Scaliger says, ‘‘Calipha 
eat vicarius ” (/sayoy, 3. The dignity of 
sultan is superior to that of caliph, 
although many sultans called themeelves 
caliphs. That pas which in our 
version of the New Testament is ren- 
dered ‘‘ Archelaus reigned in his stead” 
(i.e. in the place of Herod), is translated 
in the Syriac version Chealaph Herodes, 
that is, ‘‘ Archelaus was Hervd’s caliph ” 
or vicar. Similarly, the pope calls him- 
self ‘‘St. Peter's vicar.”—Selden, Titles 
of Honour, v. 68-9 (1672). 

Calip’olis, in The Battle of Alcazar 
a drama by George Peele (1582). Pisto 
says to Mistress (Juickly : 

Then feed and be fat, my fair Calipolis. ~Shakespeara, 
2 Henry 1V. act ii. ec. 4 (1586). 

Cal'is (Zhe princess), sister of As’- 
torax king of Paphos, in love with Poly- 
dore, brother of general Memnon, but 
loved greatly by Siphax.—Beaumont and 
Fletcher, The Mad Lover (1617). 


Calis’ the fierce and haughty 
daughter of Sciol’to (3 syl-)s & proud 
Genoese nobleman. She yielded to the 
seduction of Lotha’rio, but engaged tu 
marry Al'tamont, a young lord who loved 
her dearly. On the wedding day a letter 
was picked up which proved her guilt, 
and she was subsequently seen by Aita- 
mont conversing with Lothario. A duel 
ensued, in which Lothario fell ; in a street 





CALYDON. 


Rogers, Account of North America, (Dee 
_ PIrE.) 
img, a-courting. In the day- 


tisne any act of gallantry would 
deemed indecorous by the American 
Indians; but after sunset, the young 
lever _a-calumeting. He, in fact, 
lights his pipe, and entering the cabin of 
his well-beloved, presenta it to her. If 
the lady ishes it, she accepts his 
widresses: but © cas vitesse bs 
she rejects them, and the gentleman 
retires.—Ashe, Jravels, 

Cal (Prince of), Melea'gcr, famed 
for killing the Calydonian boar.—. —Apullud. 
LB. (See sroper yaar 


Uno the prin’ beat af Calydhon, 
Shakespeare, 3 Hemry VJ. act L wc. 1 (100i). 
Cal’ ydon, a town of to'lia, founded 
by Calfdon. 
Calydon is a forest in the north of our 
island. Probably it is what Richard of 
Cirencester calls the “Caledonian Wood," 
westward of the Varar or Murray Frith. 


Calydo'nian Hunt. Art?mis, to 

nish (Eneus | £*.nuce) king of Cal'ydon, 
in Eto'lia, for neglect, sent a monster 
bear to ravage his vineyards. His son 
.Melea’ger collected together a large 
company to hunt it. The boar being 
killed, a dispute arose respecting the 
head, ‘and this led to a war between the 
Curétés and Calydo'nians. 

A similar tale is told of Theseus (2 syl.), 
who vanguished and killed the gigantic 
sow which rv the territory of 
Krommyon, near Corinth. (See Krom- 
MYONIAN Sow.) 


Calyp’so, in Telémayue, a prose-epic 
by Fénelon, ia meant for Mde. de Mon- 
tespan. In mythology she was queen of 
the island Ogyg’ia, on which Ulvssés 
was wrecked,.and where he was detained 
for seven years. 

Calypeo's Isle, Ogygia, a mythical 
island “‘in the navel of the sea.” Some 
eonsider it to be Gozo, near Malta. 
Ogygia (mot the island) is Deeco'tia, in 
Greece, 





Camacho, “ richest of men," makes 
od preparations for his wedding with 
uite’ ria, “fairest of women,” bot as the 
bridal pasty are on their way, Basil’ius 
cheats him of his bride, by pretending 
to kill himself. As it is supposed that 
Basilius is dying, Quiteria is married to 
kim a2 a mere matter of form, to soothe 





158 
all its ornaments are deep ro red.—Major his last moments; but when the service ia 


In Arthurian romance — 








Ga 


CAMBALLO. 


“ag up jumps Basilius, and shows that 

“mortal wounds” are a mere 
srvlanie —Cervantes, an episode in Don 
Quirote, Il. ii. 4 (1615). 


Camalodu'num, Colchester. 
Girt by half the tribes of Britaln, near the colony Came 


Tennyson, Socom, 


Caman'ches (3 al.) or Comax’- 
CHES, an Indian tribe the Texas 
(United States). 

ii le a caravan, whitening the desert where dwell the 
Longfellow, To the Driving Claud. 

Camaral'zaman, prince of “ the 
Island of the. Children of owen 
situate in the open sea, some twent 
gail from the coast of Persia.” Hae < dad 
the only child of Schah’zaman and 
Fatima, king and queen of the island. 
He was very averse to marriage ; but one 
night, by fairy influence, being shown 
Radou'ra, only child of the king of 
China, he fell in love with her and 
exchanged rings. Next day both in- 

uired what had become of the other, and 

e question was deemed so ridiculous 
that each was thought to be mad. At 
length Marzavan (foster-brother of the 
rincess) solved the mystery, He 
induced the prince Camaralzaman to po 
to China, where he was recognized by the 
princess and married her. (The name 
means the moon of the period.”\— Arabian 
Nights (* Camaralzaman and M Pin ")s 


Cam'ballo, the second son of Cam- 
busean’ king of Tartary, brother of 
Al’garsife (3 syl.) and Can’acé (3 syl.). 
He fought with two knighta who asked 
the lady Canacé to wife, the terms being 


| that none should have her till he ba 


succeeded in worsting Camballo in 
combat, Chaucer does not give us the 
sequel of this tale, but Spenser savs that 
three brothers, named Priamond, Dia- 
mond, and ‘Triamond were suitors, and 
that Triamond won her. The mother of 
these three (all born at one birth) was 
Agape, who dwelt in Faéry-land (bk. 
iv, 2). 

Spenser makes Cambi'na (daughter of 
Agape) the lady-love of Camballo. 
Camballo is also called Camballus snd 
Cam 

Camballo's Ring, given him by nis 
sister Canacd, “ had power to stanch all 
wounds that mortally did bleed.” 


Wall mote ye wonder how that nobie knight, 
After be had en olen wounded bean 
iisnls Shand ams toakiew ne einer Ear 2 











CAMBYSES. 


Camdeo, the god of love in Hind@t 
mythology. 

Camel. The pelican is called the 
“river camel,”in French chameau d'eau, 
and in Arabic jimmel ef bahar. 

We enw abundance of camels [i.¢. pefioane 

Cameliard (3 syl.), the realm of 

’ or Leod’ogrance, father of 
Guinevere (3 sy/.) wife of king Arthur. 
Met coe tals danger amed mous other child coe 
Guinevere, and in ber his one delight. 
Teanyson, Coming of 4rthur. 
Camelot (8 a There are two 
so called. e place referred to in 
jimy Lear is in Comwall, but that of 
Arthurian renown was in Winchester. In 
to the first Kent says to Cornwall, 
“ if I had you apon Sarum Plain 
Id drive ye cackling home to Camelot,” 
i.e. to Tintag’il or Camelford, the ‘‘home” 
of the duke of Cornwall. But the Came- 
lot of Arthur was in Winchester, where 
visitors are still shown certain large en- 
trenchments once pertaining to ‘‘ king 
Arthur’s palace.” 
fir Balin’: sword was put inte marble stone, 
spright as a great millstone, and it swam down the stream 
to the Camelot, that le, In English, Winchester.— 
Ge T. , Misery of Prince Arthur, | 44 (1470). 

*,° In some places, even in Arthurian 
romance, Camelot seems the city on the 
Camel, in Cornwall. Thus, when sir 
Tristram left Tintagil to go to Ireland, a 
tempest “drove him back to Camelot” 
(pt. ii. 19). 

Camilla, the virgin queen of the 
Volscians, famous for her fleetness of 
foot. Shc aided Turnus against £neas. 


Ket sp whee swtft Camilla scours the plain, 
Pies o'er th’ unbending corn, or skins along the main. 


Camilla, wife of Anselmo of Florence. 
Anselmo, in order to rejoice in her incor- 
saptible fidelity, induced his friend Lo- 


155 CAMLAN. 


Cam 8 eyi.), pons, 
resting Nasneter a Preaton's togedy af 
that name. 


thario to try to corrupt her. This he did, 
and Camilla was not trial-proof, bat fell. 
Anselmo for a time was kept in the dark, 
but at the end Camilla eloped with Lo- 
thariv. Anselmo died of grief, Lothario 
was slain in batsle, and Camilla died in a 
copvent.—Cervantes, Don Quixote, I. iv. 
6, 6 (‘* Fatal Curiosity,” 1605). 


Camille’ (2 sy!.), in Corneille’s tragedy 
of Les Horaces (1639). When her brother 
meets her and bids her congratulate him 
for his victory over the three curiatii, she 

ives utterance to her grief for the death of 

t lover. Horace says, ‘‘What! can you 
prefer a man to the interests of Rome?” 

ereupon Camille denounces Rome, and 
concludes with these words: ‘‘Oh that 
it were my lot!” When Mdlle. Rachel 
first appeared in the character of ‘' Ca- 
mille,” she took Paris by storm (1838). 
Voir le dernier Romain 4 son dernier . 
Mot seule en étre cause, et mourir de 

*,* Whitehead has dramatized the suo~ 
ject i called it Zhe Roman Father 
(1741). , 


Camillo, a lord in the Sicilian cou 
and a very good man. Being command 
by king Leontés to poison Polixenés, 
instead of doing so he gave him warning, 
and fled with him to Bohemia. When 
Pclixenés ordered his son Florizel to 
abandon Perdita, Camillo persuaded the 
young lovers to seek refuge in Sicily, 
and induced Leontés, the Ein thereof, 
to protect them. As soon as Polixenés 
discovcred that Perdita was Leontés’ 
daughter, he readily consented to the union 
which before he had forbidden.—Shake- 
speare, The Winter's Tale (1604). 


Cami’ola, ‘‘the maid of honour,” a 
lady of great wealth, noble spirit, and 
great beauty. She loved Bertoldo 
(brother of Roberto king of the two Sici- 
lies), and when Bertoldo was taken 

risoner at Sienna, paid his ransom. 

rtoldo before his release was taken 
before Aurelia, the duchess of Sienna. 
Aurelia fell in love with him, and pro- 
posed marriage, an offer which Bertoldo 
accepted. The betrothed then went to 
Palermo to be introduced to the king, 
when Camidla ex posed the conduct of the 
base young prince. Roberto was dis- 

usted. at his brother, Aurelia rejected 

im with scorn, and Camiola retired tc 
a nunnery.—Massinger, The Mui of 
Honour (1637). 


Camlan (in Cornwall), now the rives 


Alan or Camel, a contraction of Cam-alar 








CANDID FRIEND. 


between the great Trapoba’na and the 
South Sea, a couple of leagues beyond 
cape Com‘orin.—Cervantes, Quixote, 
IL. iii. 4 (1615). 


Candid Friend. ‘Save me, oh, 
save me, from a candid friend!” (See 
Harer.) 

Give mo th’ avowed, the erect, the open, foe. — 

tura his blow 


Bia I mest, 5 
But of al (onde that Heaven tm wrath can ond 


Rave ma, ob, mve mea, from a candid friend 


taire’s novel of the same name. All 
conceivable misfortunes are piled on his 
head, but he bears them with cynical 
sndiff 
Volaize sage °* No.” He tells you that Candide 
Found life most tolerable after meals. 
Byron, Den Juen, v. 31 (1890). 


Candour (Xrs.), the beau-ideal of 
female backbiters.—Sheridan, The School 
for Scandal (1777). 

The name of “ Mrs. Candour” has become one of those 
formidable 


a winest remoastrance reasoning.—T. Moore. 
Since the of Mins Pope, it may be questioned 
whether “ Mrs. “ has ever founda more admirabie 


sepresentative than Mrs. Stirling.— Dramatic Memoirs. 
Can’‘idia, a Neapolitan, beloved by 
the poet Horace. When she deserted 
him, he held her up to contempt as an old 
sorceress who could by a rhomb unsphere 
the moon.— Horace, Epodes v. and xvii. 
Such a charm were right 


Mrs. browning, Hector in the Garden, iv. 


Canker of the Brain, mental de- 
fusion. We often say ‘‘a person is full of 
magyots,” meaning whims and fancies. 
‘See Maccors.) 

If amy vision should reveal 
Thy Ukenes, | might coant it valn, 
As but the canker of the brain. 
Tennyson, /n Memoriam, xcil. 


CanmoreorGreat-Heap. Malcolm 
MI. of Scotland (*, 1057-1093).—Sir W. 
Scott, Tales of a Grand/suther, 1. 4. 


Canning (George), statesman (1770- 

1877). Charles Lamb calls him : 
A pte 

Cano'pos, Menelaos’s pilot, killed 
in the return voyage from Troy by the 
bite of a serpent. The town Candpos 
(Latin, Canojus) was built on the site 
where the pilot was buried. 


Can’tab, a member of the University 
ef Cambridge. The word is a contraction 
ef the La:in Can abriy’ia. 


—- 


CANTON. 
Canta’brian Surge (The), Bay of 


Biscay. 
Sbe ber thundering navy leaae 
To Calpé (Gibraltar). . . or the rovgn 
Akenside, Hymn te the Natads. 
Cantab’ric Ocean, the sea which 
washes the south of [reland.—Richard of 
Cirencester, Ancient State of Britam, i. 8. 


Can'tacusene’ (4 syi.), a noble 
Greek family, which furnished twe 
emperors of Constantinople, and several 

rinces of Moldavia and Wallachia. Tha 
mily still survives. 
We mean to show that the Cantacusenés are not the 
only princely family in the world.—D leracll, Lothaire. 
There are other members of the Cantacumené family 
besides mysell.— Ditto. 


Can’tacuzene’ (Michael), the grand 
sewer of Alexius Comne’nus, emperor 3f 
Greece.—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert of 
Paris (time, Rufus). 


Canterbury, according to mythical 
story, was built by Rudhudibras. 
By Rudhudibras Kent's famuus town . . . arore. 
Drayton, Polyolbion, vili (1614.) 
Canterbury Tales. Eighteen tales 
told by a company of pilgrims going to 
visit the shrine of ‘‘St. Thonias a Beck ed 
at Canterbury. The party first asseml.Jed 
at the Tabard, an inn in Southwark, and 
there agreed to tell one tale each both 
going and returning, and the person who 
told the best tale was to be treated by the 
rest to a supper at the Tabard on the 
homeward journey. The party consisted 
of twenty-nine pilgrims, so that the 
whole budyet of tales should have been 
fifty-eight, but only ecighteen of the 
number were told, not one being on the 
homeward route. The chief of these tales 
are: ‘* The Knight's Tale " (Pal'amunard 
Ar’cite, 2 syl.); ‘‘The Man of Law's 
Tale” (Custunce, 2 syl.); ‘*The Wife of 
Bath's Tale" (3fi’dus) ; ** TheClerk’s Tale” 
(Grisiidis) ; ‘* The Squire's Tale” (Cam- 
n', incomplete); ‘‘ The Franklin's 
Tale” (Dor'ujen und Arvir’agus) ; ‘The 
Prioress's Tale” (//ujh of Lincoln) ; ‘‘ The 
Priest's Tale" (Chunticleer and Partelite) ; 
‘The Second Nun's Tale” (St. Cecil'ia) ; 
‘The Doctor's Tale” a: init); ‘* The 
Miller's Tale” (JoAn t arpenter and 
Alison); and ‘‘The Merchant's Tale” 
(January and May), (1388). 


Canton, the Swiss valet of lord 
Ogleby. He has to skim the morning 
rs and serve out the cream of them 

to his lordship at breakfast, ‘‘ with good 
emphasis and gvod discretion.” He 
laughs at all his master’s jokes, flatters 


157 











CAPTAIN. 


ments tongue-doughtinesa, and his whole 
man Brommagem. 


Te thu on captain confided the command of the 
cape Ws irving 


inte hp yb hedge ct natal 
rei 6 = 
Ger bow | garkles Hike an old lady's eyes, .... 

pnt ras Scan of nay ow ht re 

Pot dese aol them on, poo're a man of copper ; 

A Kied of cquadlestickh ; a copper, copper captaln, 

Bewrment and Fletcher, fwea Wie and 
Hare a Wife (lhe). 

Captem (A fed), a poor obsequious 
eaptain, who is led about as a cara/lier 
erventé by those who find him hospitality 
and pay nunky for him. He is not the 
leader of others, as a captain ought to be, 
but is by others led. 

cr | quantal Wita ibs iamily of Dinndish, you only 

vedeed be fed 
pest rc lel epee Baa gus Tea sone, eat }. 

Captain (The Biack), lieutenant-colonel 
Dennis Davidoff, of the Russian army. 
In the French invasion he was called by 
the French Le Cupitaine Noir. 

Captain Loys [Z0.is]. Louise Labé 
was so called, because in early life she 
embraced the profession of arms, and 


nas 


ve repeated proofs of valour. 
She was also called La Belle Cordiére. 
Louise Labé was a , and has left 


several sonnets of greene and 
some good elegies (1526-1566). 


Captain ht, a fictitious com- 
mander, ie aes ohne ona das ts 


Ireland. In the last century the peasants 
of Ireland were sworn to captain Hight, 
as chartists were sworn to their articles 
of demand called their charter. Shake- 
speare would have furnished them with 
a good motto, ‘‘ Use every man after his 
d and who shall ‘scape whipping?” 
(Hamlet, act ii. sc. 2). 


Captain Rock, a fictitious name 
assumed by the leader of certain Irish 
insurgents in 1822, ete. All notices, 
summonses, and 80 on, were signed by 
this name. 

Captain is a Bold Man (The), a 
popular phrase at one time. J’eachum 
applies the expression to captain Mac- 
heath.—Gay, The Beyyar's Opera (1727). 


Capu’cinade (4 sy/.). 
einade” is twaddling composition, or 
wishy-washy literature. e term is 
derived from the sermons of the Capu- 
ehins, which were netononsy incorrect 
in doczrine and debased in style. 


ts was a vague discourm, the rhetoric of an old 
hore @ mere capucinade.— Lemge. Od Blas, vies 


“A capu- 


159 





CARACTACUS. 


Cap’ulet, head of a noble house of 
Verona, in feudal enmity with the house 
of Mon’tague (3 sy/.). Lord Capulet is 


| @ jovial, testy old man, sclf-willed, pre- 
| judiced, and t 


nical. 

Lady Capulet, wife of lord Capulet 
and mother of Juliet.—Shakespeare, 
tomeo and Juliet (1598). 


Thon lady comes sweeping by with her train 
of velvet, ber hood, her fan, and her . the 
very beaa-ideal of a proud Italian matron of the fi ta 


lameatation over ber.—Mrs. Jameson. 
(Lord Capulet was about 60. He had 


“left off masking” for above thirty 
| years (act i. ec. 5),,and lady Capulet was 


only 28, as she tells the nurse; but 
her daughter Juliet was a marriageable 
"The mb of all the Capulets. Burk 
omb of a ‘ 

in a letter to Matthew Smith, says: ft 
would rather sleep in the comer of a 
little country church-yard than in the 
tomb of all the Capulets.” It does not 
occur in Shakespeare. 


Capys, a blind old seer, who pro- 
phesied to Romulus the military triumphs 
of Rome from its foundation to the de- 
struction of Carthage. 

In the hall-gate sat Capys, 
ory eee seer ; 
From head to foot be trembled 
As Romulus drew near. 
And up stood stiff his thin white halr, 
Lent eminent Tas Pope 
of Capmany 

Car’abas (Ze marquis de), an hypo- 
thetical title to express a fossilized old 
aristocrat, who supposed the whole world 
made for his behoof. The ‘‘king owes 
his throne to him;” he can ‘trace his 
pedigree to Pepin ;” his voungest son is 

‘sure of a mitre;” he is too noble ‘‘ to 
pay taxes ;" the very priests share their 
tithes with him; the country was made 
for his ‘‘ hunting-ground ;” and, there- 
fore, as Béranger says: 

Chapeas bas! chapeac bas! 
Gloire au marquis de Carabas ! 

The name occurs in Perrault’s tale of 
Puss in Bvots, but it is Béranger's song 
(1816) which has given the word its 
present meaning. 


Carac’ci of France, Jean Jou7e- 
bet, who was paralyzed on the right side, 
and painted with his left hand (1647- 
i707). 

Carac’tacus or Caradoc, king of 
the Sil’urés (Monmouthshire, etc.). For 








CARDANR. 


Left hand bottom comer turned down 
meant 
Car’dan (Jeréme) of Pa'via (1501- 
3 Sei 


s5°8), gaa cian and astro- 





to have a demon or 
iliar spirit, who revealed to hin the 
secrets of nature. 


Carde’nio of Andalusia, of opulent 
pe fell in love with Lucinda, a lady 
family and fortune, to whom he 
was formally engaged. Don Fernando, 
his friend, however. iled on Lucin- 
da’s father, by artifice, to break off the 

ment and promise Lucinda to 
himself, ‘‘ contrary to her wish, and in 
violation of every principle of honour.” 
This drove Cardenio mad, and he haunted 
the Sierra Moréna or Brown Mountain 
for about six months, as a maniac with 
tucid intervals. On the wedding day 
Lacinda swooned, and a letter informed 
the bridegroom that she was married to 
Cardenio. Next day she privately left. 
her father’s house, and took 
convent; but being abducted by don 
Fernando, she was carried to an inn, 
where Fernando found Dorothea his wife, 
and Cardenio the husband of Lucinda. 
All parties were now reconciled, and the 
two gentlemen paired respectively with 
their proper wives. — Cervantes, Don 
Quirote, 1. iv (1605). 


Carduel or Kar'tel, Carlisle, the | 


where Merlin prepared the Round 
aole. 

Care, described «s a blacksmith, who 
“worked all night and day.” His 
bellows, says Spenser, are Pensiveness 
and Sizhs.—Fuéry Queen, iv. 5 (1596). 

Care’l one of the boon com- 

ions of les Surface.—Sheridan, 
Behoul for Scandal (1777). 

Care’less (Colunel), an officer of high 
spirits and mirthful temper, who seeks to 
win Rath (the daughter of sir Basil 


Thoroughgood) for his wife.—T. Knight, | 


The Humest Thieves. 

This farce is a mere réchuuffé of The 
Committee, by the Hon. sir RK. Howard. 
The names ‘colonel Careless" and 
“Rath” are the same, but ‘‘ Ruth” says 
ver proper Christian name is ‘‘ Anne.” 


Careless, in The Commitice, was the part 
sor which Joseph Ashbury (1638-1720) 
was celebrated.—Chetwood, J/istory of 
the Stare. 


refuge in a | 








CARKER, 


(The Committee, recast by T. Knight, 
is called The Honest Thieves.) 

Careless (Ned), makes love to lady 
Pliant.—W. Congreve, Z'he Dowble Deasler 
(1700). 

Careless Husband ( Tie), acomedy 
by Colley Cibber (1704). The “ careless 
husband" is sir Charles Easy, who has 
amours with different persons, but is ao 
careless that he leaves his love-letters 
about, and even forgeta to lock the door 
when he has made ao liaison, so that his 
wife knows all; yet so sweet 1s her 
temper, and under such entire control, 
that she never reproaches him, nor abows 
the slightest indication of jealousy. Her 
confidence so wins upon her husband that 
he confesses to ber his faults, and reforms 
entirely the evil of bis ways, 


Caréme (Jean de), chef de cuisine of 
Leo X. This was a name given him by 
the pope for an admirable soupe maigre 
which he invented fur Lent. A descendant 
of Jean was clef to the prince regent, at 
asalary of £1000 per annum, but he left 
this situation because the prince had only 
a menaje bourgevis, and entered the ser- 
vice of baron Rothschild at Paris (1754— 
1833). 

Carey (Fatrick), the poet, brother of 
lord Falkland, introduced by sir W. 
Seott in Woodstock (time, Common- 
wealth). 

Car'gill (The Rev. Josiah), minister 
of St. Ronan's Well, tutor of the Hon. 
Augustus Didmore (2 sy/.), and the suitor 
of Miss Augusta Bidmore, his pupil's 
sister.—Sir W. Scott, St. Aonun's Well 
(time, George ITT,). 


Caribee Islands (London), now 
Chandoa Strect. It was called the 
Caribee Islands from its countless straite 
and intricate thieves’ passaes. 





Cari'no, father of Zeno'cia the chaste 


| troth-plight wife of Arnoldo (the lady 


dishonourably pursued by the gore 
count Clodiv).—Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Custom of the Country (1647). 


Car’ker (ames), manager in the 
house of Mr. Dombey, merchant. Carker 
wos a nian of 40, of a florid complexion, 
with very glistening white teeth, which 
showed conspicuously when he spoke, 
Hia smile was like “the snarl of o cat.” 
Ile was the Alas'tor of the house of 
Dombey, for he not only brought the 
firm to bankruptey, but be seduced Alice 

“ 











CARO. ‘168 
who are idle. When a vessel is dcomed, 


the kobold ap emoking a short piy 
dressed in yellow, nad weating a might- 
cap. 

Caro, the Flesh or “‘ natural man” 
personified. Phineas Fletcher says ** this 
dam of sin” is a bag of loathsome shape, 
arrayed in steel, polished externally, but 


rusty within. On her shield is the device | 


va mermaid, with the motto, “ Hear, 
jaze, and Die."— The Purple Island, Vil. 
(1633). 

Carocium, the banner of the Mi- 
lanese, having for device ‘St. Ambrose,” 


(the patron saint of Milan. It was | 


moanted om an iron tree with iron leaves, 
and the summit of the tree was sur- 
meunted by a lar - The whole 
was mised on & car, drawn by four 
red bulls with red harness. Mass was 
always said before the car started, and 
Guinefolle tells us, “‘ toute In cérémonie 
etait une imitation de l'arche d'alliance 
des Israclites.” 

Le arecia On teen étalt. a9 milieu, entoorrd de 
Pe) eines pers, 
ra ia mort, oe ie centres ‘Batailie de 
Ligaane, S Mal. 1170. 

Caroline, queen-consort of George IT., 
introduced ey be W. Scott in The Heart 
of Midlothian, Jeanie Deans has an 
interview with berin the gardens at Rich- 
mond, and her majesty promises to inter- 


cede with the king for Effie Deana’s | 


Caros or Carausius, 4 Roman 
captain, native of Belgic Gaul. The 
emperor Maximian employed Caros to 
defend the coast of Gaul against the 
Franks and Saxons. He aciyuired great 
wealth ard power, but fearing to excite 
the jealousy of Maximian, he sailed 
for Britain, where (in A.p. 287) be caused 
himself to be proclaimed emperor. Caros 
resisted all attempts of the Romans to 
dislodge him, so that they ultimately 
acknowledged his independence. Le 
repaired Ayricola's wal] to obstruct the 
incursions of the Caledoniana, and while he 
was employed on this work was attacked 
by a party commanded by Oscar, son of 
Ossian and grandson of Fingal. “ The 
warriors of Caros fled, and Oscar remained 
like o rock left by the ebbing sea."— 
Ussian, The Wur of Caros, 


‘étaient auls & In vie & ls mort pour | 








CARPILLONA. 


Car’ove (3 syi.), ‘a story without 
an end."—Mrs. Austin, 7rans/ation. 


1 most get on, or my renders will anticipate thar mp 
ftory, like Caroré's mors colnbrated one, will prove a 
Garis Garant ond"“—W. J. Thom, ate ond 


Carpath'ian Wizard (The), Pro- 
tens (2 sy/.), who lived in the island of 
Car'piithos, in the Archipelago, He was 
a wizard, who could change his form at 
will. Being the sea-god's shepherd, le 
carried a crook. 

(2 the Carpet roa, Comes, 73 (1684). 

Carpet (Prince Housain’s), a magic 
carpet, to all appearances quite worthless, 
but it would transport any one who sat on 
it to any part of the world in a moment. 
This carpet is sometimes called ‘the 
magic carpet of Tangu," because it came 
from Taogu, in Persia.—Arabian Viyhls 


| (“Prince Ahmed"). 


Carpet (Solomon's). Solomon had a 
green silk carpet, on which his throne was 
set. This carpet was large enough for all 
his court te stand on; human beings 
atood on the right side of the throne, and 
spirits on the left, When Solomon 
wished to travel he told the wind where 


to set him down, and the carpet with all 
| its contents rose into the air and alighted 


at the proper place. In hot weather the 
birds of the air, with outspread w.ngs, 
formed a canopy over the welbola party.— 
Sale, Aoran, xxvii. notes. 


Carpet Knight (4A), « civil, not a 
military knight. 

Carpet Knight or¢ men who ore, by the prince's 
grace and favour, made Knight) af home ond in the time 
of peace. by the impoation of ying on of the king's 
worl, having, by sume special service dome to the com- 
monwealth, deserve) thia Utle and dignity, They ore 
clei “Carpet Knighta™ bernie receive their 
heniwur in the court, and upon corp [and mol in the 
batle-feld|—Frwch Markham, Soke af Manoerr |i), 

Carpil'lona, (frincess), the daughter 
of Subliimus king of the Peaceable 
Islands. Sublimiisa, being dethroned by a 
nsurper, waa with his wife, child, and a 
foundling boy, thrown into a dungeon, 
and kept there for three years. The four 
captives then contrived to escape; but 
the rope which held the basket in which 
Carpillona was let down, snapped 
asunder, and she fell into the lake. 
Sublimus and the other two lived in 
retirement as a shepherd family, and 
Carpillona, being rescued by a fisherman, 
was brought up by him as his daughter. 
When the “ Humpbacked” Prince de- 
throned the usurper of the Peaceable 
Islands, Carpillona was one of the cap. 








CARTHAGE OF THE NORTH. 


of the North. J.abeck 
Bpeber econ it was the head of the 
Hanseatic League. 

Car’thon, son of Cless’ammor and 
Moina, was born while Clessammor was 
in flight, and his mother died in child- 
birth. hen he wae three years old, 
Comhal (Fingal’s father) took and bumt 
Balclutba (a town belonging to the 
Britons, on the Clyde), but Carthon was 
carried away safely by his nurse. When 
gtown to man’s Carthon resolved 
to revenge this attack on Balclutha, and 
sccordingly invaded Morven, the king- 
don of Fi . After ter overthrowing two 
of Fingal's on was slain by 
his own father, who knew him not; but 
when Clessammor learnt that it was his 
own son whom he had slain, he mourned 
for him three days, and on the fourth he 
died.—Ossian, 

Car’ton (Sydney), a friend of Charles 
Darnay, whom he personally resembled. 
Sydney Carton loved Lucie ette, but, 
knowing of her attachment to Darnay, 
never attempted to win her. Her friend- 
ship, however, called out his 
qualities, and he nobly died instead of 
his friend.—C. Dickens, A Tale of Two 
Cities (1859). 


Cartouche, an eighteenth centu 
highwayman. He is the French Dic 
Turpin. 


Car’un, a smal! river of Scotland, now 
called Carron, in the neighbourhood of 
ferirola's wall. The word means “ wind- 


Ca’rus (Slow), in Garth's Dispensary, 
is Dr. Tyson (1649-1708). 


Caryati'des (5 syi.) or Carya’tes 
(4 syl.), female figures in Greek costume, 
used in architecture to support entabla- 
tures. Ca’rya, in Arcadia, sided with the 
Persians when they invaded Greece, soafter 
the battle of Thermop’ylz, the victorious 
Greeks destroyed the city, slew the men, 
and made the women slaves. Praxit'elés, 
to perpetuate the disgrace, employed 
figures of Caryan women with Persian 
men, for architectural columns. 


Cas’ca, a blunt-witted Roman, and 
one of the conspirators who assassinated 
Julius Cesar. aan called “ Honest 
Casca,” meaning in- -—Shake- 
speare, Julius Casar (1607). 


Casch’'casch, a hideous genius 
“hanchbacked, lame, and blind of one 


165 


CASSANDRA. 

eye; with aix horns on his head, and both 
his hands and feet hooked.” The fairy 
Maimou’né (8 sy/.) summoned him to de- 
cide which was the more beautiful, “ the 
rince Camaral’zaman or the princess 
ou’ra,” but he was unable to deter- 
mine the knotty point.—Arabian Nights 

(**Camaralzaman and Badoura"). 


Casella, a musician and friend of 
the poet Danté, introduced in his Pur- 
gatory, ii. On arriving at purgatory, the 
poet sees a vessel freighted with souls 
come to be purged of their sins and nade 
fit for se ; among them he recognizes 
his friend Casella, whom he ‘‘ woos to 
sing ;” whereupon, Casella repeats with 
enchanting sweetness the words of 
[Danté’s] second canzone. 

Danté shall give Fame leave to set thee higher 
Than his Casella, whom he wooed to aing, 
Mst tn the milder shades of purgatory. 

Milton, Sonnet, xiil. (To H. Lawes). 

Casket Homer, Alexander's edition 
with Aristotle's notes. So called because 
it was kept in a golden casket, studded 
with jewels, part of the spoil which fell 
into the hands of Alexander after the 
battle of Arbe’la. 


Cas’par, master of the horse to the 
baron of Amheim. Mentioned in Don- 
nerhugel’s narrative.—Sir W. Scott, 
Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Cus’par, a man who sold himself to 
Za'micl the Black Hunteman. The night 
before the expiration of his life-lease, he 
bargained fora respite of three years, on 
condition of bringing Max into the power 
vf the fiend. On the day appointed for 
the prize-shooting, Max aimed at a dove 
but killed Caspar, and Zamiel carried off 
his victimn to ‘his own place.”—Weber's 
opera, Der Freischiitz (1822). 


Cassan'dra, daughter of Priam, 
gifted with the power of prophecy ; but 
Apollo, whom she had offended, cursed 
her with the ban ‘‘that no one should 
ever believe her predictions.”—Shake- 
speare, Troilus and Cressida (1602). 

Mra Barry in characters of greatness was 
noble, and dignified; no violence of passion was be 
the reach of her fecling, and in the most melting distress 
and tenderness she was exquisitely affecting. us she 
was equally admirable in ‘’ Casaan "ee patra,"’ 
** Roxana,” ‘* Munimia,” or ‘* Belvidera.“—C, Dibdin, His- 
tory a the Stuge. 

*,* ‘Cassandra ” ( 7roilus and Cressida, 
Shakespeare) ; ‘‘Cleopatra” (Antony a 
Cleopatra, Shakespeare, or All for Love, 
Dryden) ; ‘* Roxana" (Alexander the 
Great, Lee); ‘‘Monimia" (Zhe 


Otway) ; “ Belvidera” (Venice Prectrved 


; Otway 





—_—— 


CASTAGNETTE. 


Stranger” (B. Thom : “ Pierre ° 
Venice ‘Touma Obey) Zanga 
ee tte eT ecther one 


stomach was ; a leather one 
made Deagenettes Ge. » but 
his caret was soon ended it Ut 
shell, which blew him into atoms.— 
Manuel, A French Extravaganza. 

Casta'lio, son of lord Acasto, and 
Polydore'’s twin-brother. Both the 
brothers loved their father’s ward, Mo- 
nim ‘ia ‘the -”_ The love of Poly- 
dore was dishonourable love, but Castalio 
loved her truly and married her in 

On the bridal night Polydore by 
took his brother’s place, and 
next day, when Monimia discovered the 
deceit which had been practised on her, 
and Polydore heard that Monimia was 
really married to his brother, the bride 
i herself, the adulterer ran upon 
brother’s sword, and the husband 
aap himself.—Otway, The Orphan 

1 e 

Mr. Wiiks's excellence tn comedy wus never once dis- 
ped, bat she Ln Jase hin x cterrng pat 
~ Jahier.” —Chetwood. 

*." ‘¢ Hamlict ” (Shakespeare) ; ‘‘ Ed- 
gar” (King Lear, Shakespeare); ‘‘ Mo- 
neses” (Zameriane, Rowe); ‘“‘ Jaffier” 
( Venice Preserved, Otway). 


Cas’taly, a fountain of Parnassos, 


sacred to the Muses. Its waters had the 
virtue of inspiring those who drank 
thereof with the gift of poetry. 


Casta’ra, the lady addressrd by Wm. 
Hlabington in his poems. She was Lucy 
Herbert (daughter of Wm. Herbert, first 
lord Powis), and became his wife. (Latin, 
easta, ‘‘chaste.”) 


If then, Castara, I in heaven nee move, 
Kor ros bell, where am | hut in love ? 
Habington, To Castara (died 1684). 


Te aera i Scans 
~ceaara” whor be afterwurds married.— Hallam. 

Castle Dan us, a novel by sir 
W. Scott, after the wreck of his fortune 
and repeated strokes of paralysis (1831). 
Those who read it must remember they 
are the last notes of a dying swan, and 
forbear to scan its merits too strictly. 


Castle Dangerous or ‘* The Perilous 
Castle of Douglas.” So called because 
it was thrice taken from the English 
between 1806 and 1307. 

1. On Palm Sunday, while the English 
evidiers were at church, Douglas fell on 





167 





CASTLE IN THE AIR. 


them and slew them ; tien, entering the 
castle, he put to the sword all he G 
o and set fire to the castle (March 


2. The castle being restored was placed 
under the guard of Thirwall, but Douglas 
disguised his soldiers as drovers, and 
Thirwall resolved to ‘‘ pillage the rogues.” 
He set upon them to drive off the herds, 
but the ‘‘drovers,” being too strong for 
the attacking party, overpowered them, 
and again Douglas made bimeelf master 
of the castle. 

8. Sir John de Walton next volunteered 
to hold the castle for a year and a day, 
but Douglas disguised his soldiers as 
market-men carrying corn and grass to 
Lanark. Sir John, in an attempt to 
plunder the men, set upon them, but was 
overmastered and slain. This is the 
subject of sir W. Scott’s novel called 
Castle Da but instead of the 
market-men ‘with corn and grass,” the 
novel substitutes lady Augusta, the pri- 
soner of Black Douglas, whom he pro- 
mises to release if the castle is surrendered 
to him. De Walton consents, gives up 
the castle, and marries the lady Augusta. 


Castle Perilous, the habitation of 
lady Lionés (called by Tennyson 
Lyonors). Here she was held captive by 
sir Ironside the Red Knight of the Red 
Lands. Sir Gareth overcame the knight, 
and married the lady.—Sir T. Malory, 
IMstory of Prince Arthur, i. 120-153. 

*,* Tennyson has poetised the tale in 
Gareth and Lynette, but has altered it. 
He has even departed from the old story 
by making sir Gareth ma Lynette, 
and leaving the lady Lyonors in the cold. 
In the old story Gareth marries Lionés 
(or Lyonors), and his brother Ga‘beris 
marries Linet.(or Lynette). 

Tennyson has quite missed the scope of the Arthurisa 
allegury, which {s a Bunyan’s Pilgrim's Pr . 
nette ts the people of this world or the fubabit- 
ants of the ‘* City of action.” ‘' Lionés” represents 
the ° bride,” which saya to the Christian “Come!” ang 
is the bride in heaven of those who fight the fight of 


faith. ‘‘Castle Perilous” ts the Celestial City, set on a 


hil. Lynette scoffs at Gareth after bad conquest, for 

“*the carnal mind is enmity against 3” but Gareth 

** fights the fight,” and wins the bride. Tennyron makes’ 
Destruction 


th . 
(January 19, February 16, March 16, 1878}. 


Castle in the Air or Chateau 
d’Espagne, a splendid thing of fancy 
or hope, but wholly without any real 
existence, called a ‘castle of Spain,” 
because Spain has no castles or chateaux, 
So Greek Kalends means ‘‘never,” be- 





= 





to put down this cruel “ sport;” and one 





CATAIAR. 160 


CATH-LODA. 


; Morna, daughter of Cormac king of 


day, just as two unfortunate cals were 
sim the alarm was given that the 

was riding "P post haste. An 
offeer present cut through their tails 
with his sword and liberated the cats, 
which scampered off before the colonel 
arrived.—From a correspondent, signed, 
R. Glenn (4, Rowden Buildings, 
T 


G. 
“The Kitkonsy Cats. The story is that 


wo cats fought in a saw-pit so ferociously 
that each swallowed the other, leaving 
caly the tails behind to tel! of the won- 


encounter. — See Jictionary of — 


derful 
Phrase and Fable, for several other re- 
ferences to cats. 


Catai’an (8 sy!.), a native of Catai’a 
or Cathay, the ancient name of China; a 
boaster, a liar. Page, speaking of Fal- 
staff, says: 


Cateucla’ni, called Catiewehla'ni by 
Ptolemy, and race | Richard of Ciren- 
cester. They occupied Buckinghamshire, 
Bedfordshire, and Hertfordshire. Dray- 
ton refers to them in his /’o/yollnon, xvi. 


Catgut (Dr.), a caricature of Dr. 
Arne in The Commissary, by Sam. Foote 
(1765). 

Catharine, queen-consort of Charles 
I].; introduced by sir W. Scott in 
Peveril of the Penk, (See CATUERINE, 
end also under the letter K.) 


Cath'arine (St.) of Alexandria (fourth 
century), patron saint of girls and vir- 

ns erally. Her real name was 
Borothea ; but St. Jerome says she was 
called Catharine from the Syriac word 
Kethar or Kathar, “a crown,” because 
ahe won the triple crown of martyrdom, 
virginity, and wisdom. She was put to 


death on a wheel, November 25, which is | 


her féte day. 
o brasd St. Catharine's hair means “to 
live a virgin.” 
Thou art too fair te be left to braid St. Catharine's tresses. 
» Keangeliove (1 SiH), 
Cathay’, Chine or rmither Tartary, 
a corruption of the Tartar word AjAita’, 
“the country of the Khitai'ans or Khi- 
tans.” The capital was Albracca, ac- 
cording to Ariusto (Orlando Furiovo), 
o « the chip 
Pram Caron. Iesiron, Don Juan, ti 9 (180) 


8 





Ireland. He was killed out of jealous 
by Duché'mar, and when Duchémar tol 
Morna and asked her to marry him she 
replied, “Thou art dark to me, Duch6- 
mar; cruel is thine arm to Morna, 
Give me that sword, my foe;" and when 
he gave it, she “pierced his manly 
breast," and he died. 


MERE, SONNY ah, Of Sabet, Ses mrt Of Hs Cae of 
Morn. to fubbeem ip the day of tha gloomg 


| form —Oedan, Fingal, 


Catherine, wife of Mathis, in The 
Polish Jew, by J. R. Ware, 

Catherine (The countess), usually called 
“The Countess,” falls in love with Huon, 
a erf, her secretary and tutor. Her 
pride revolta at the match, but her love is 
masterful. When the duke her father is 
told of it, he insists on Huon's marrying 
Catherine, a freed serf, on pain of death. 
Huon refuses to do so till the countess 
herself entreats him to comply. He then 
rushes to the wnhrs, where he greatly 


| distinguishes himself, is created prince, 


and learns that his bride is not Catherine 
the quondam serf, but Catherine the 
duke’s daughter.—S8. Knowles, Love 
(1840). 

Cath'erine of Newport, the wife 
of Julian Avenel (2 sy/.).—Sir W. Scott, 
The Monastery (time, Elizabeth). (See 
CATHARINE, and under K.) 


Cath‘leen, one of the attendants on 
Flora M‘Ivor.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George IT.). 


Cath'lin of Clu'tha, daughter of 
Cathmol. Duth-Carmor of Cluba had 
slain Cathmol in battle, and carried off 
Cathlin by force, but she contrived to 
make her escape and craved aid of Fingal. 
Ossian and Oscar were selected to espouse 
her cause, and when they reached Kathe 
eol (where Doth-(Carmor lived), Ossian 
resigned the command of the battle to his 
son Usear. Oscar and Duth-Carmor met 
in combat, and the latter fell. The victor 
earned the mail and helmet of Duth- 
Carmor to Cathlin, and Cathlin said, 
“Take the mail and place it high in 
Selma's hall, that you may remember the 
helpless in a distant jand.”"—Ossian, 
Cathlin of Clutha, 


Cath-Lo'da. The tale is this; Fingal 
in his youth, making a voyage to the 
Orknoys, was driven by stress of weather 
to Denmark. The king Starno invited 


| him to a feast, but Fingal, in distrust, 
Cath’be, son of Torman, beleved by | declined the invitation. 58 


tarno then 









mame, the of the Cato of 
Utica, who resembled him in character 
and manners. 

Cato and Hortens’ius. Cato of Utica’s 
second wife was Martia daughter of 
Philip. He allowed her to live with his 

Hortensius, and after the death of 
Hortensius took her back again. 


or “‘ garden of roses “4? 
and The Bostan (or ‘‘ garden of fruits”), 
(1176-1291). 


Cau’dine Forks, a narrow pase inthe 
mountains near Capua, now called ‘the 
Valley of Arpaia.” Here a Roman army 
under the consuls T. Vetu’rius Calvi'nus 
and Sp. Postu’mius fell into the hands of 
the Sam‘nites (2 sy/.), and were made to 
‘* pass under the yoke.” 


Cau’dle (Mrs. Margaret), a curtain 
lecturer, who between eleven o'clock at 
night and seven the next morning, deli- 
vered for thirty years a curtain lecture to 
her husband Job Caudle, generally a most 
gentle listener; if he replied, she pro- 
nounced him insufferably rude, and if he 
did not he was insafferably sulky.— 


Douglas Jerrold, Punch (‘‘The Caudle 
Papers”). 


Cau‘line (Sir), a knight who served 
the wine to the king of Ireland. He fell 
in love with Christabelle (3 sy/.), the 
king's daughter, and she became his 
troth-plight wife, without her father’s 
know! When the king knew of it, 
he banished sir Cauline (2 sy/.). Aftera 
dente Slat el 

i t sir e en i 
rival and slew him. He himself, however 
died of the wounds he had received, an 
the lady Christabelle, out of grief, ‘‘ burst 
her geutle hearte in twayne.”—Percy's 
Releques, 1. i. 4. 


171 CAVE OF ADULLAM, 





Cau’rus, the stormy west-north-west 
wind ; called in Greek, Arges'tés. 

“The Croumea, Onacle ef Tncetonen ti. (768 

Caustic, of the Despatch newspaper 

was the si re of Mr. Serle. ¥ 

: Caustic, the don 
Thomas Green F ecsenden, 1 author of 
Terrible Tractoration, a Hudibrastic poem 
(1771-1887). 


Caustic (Colonel), a fine gentleman of 
the last century, very severe on the 
degeneracy of the present race.—Henry 
Mackenzie, in The . 


Ca'va or ida, daughter of 8t. 
Julian. It was the violin ae Cava by 
Roderick that brought about the war 
between the Goths and the Moors, in 
which Roderick was slain (a.p. 711). 


Cavalier (The). -Eon de Beaumont, 
called by the French Le Chevalier d' Eon 
1728-1810). Charles Breydel, the 

lemish landscape painter (1677-1744). 
Francisco Cairo, the historian, called 
El Chavaliere del Cairo (1598-1674). Jean 
le Clerc, Le Chevalier (1587-1633). J. 
Bapt. Marini, the Italian poet, called 
Ml Cavaliere (1569-1625). Andrew Michael 
Ramsay (1686-1743). 

*,* James Francis Edward Stuart, the 
‘“‘Old Pretender,” was styled Le Chevalier 
de St. Georye (1688-1765). Charles 
Edward, the ‘‘ Young Pretender,” was 
styled The Bonnie Chevalier or The 

oung Cavalier (1720-1788). 


Cavalier Servente, same as the 
Spanish corte'jo, an Italian epithet for 
& young gentleman who plays the gal- 
lant to a married woman, escorts her 
to places of public amusement, calls her 
coach, hands her to supper, buys her bou- 
quets and opera tickets, etc. 

He may resume his amatory care 
As cavalier servente, 
Byron, Don Juan, til. 96 1830), 

Cavall’, ‘‘king Arthur's hound of 
deepest mouth.”—Tennyson, Jdylls of the 

‘ing (‘* Enid”). 

Cave of Adul’lam, a cave in 
which David took refuge when he fled 
from king Saul; and thither rescrted to 
him ‘ every one that was in distress, and 
every one that was in debt, and every one 
that was discontented” (1 Sam. xxii. 1, 2). 
Mr. John Bright called the seceders of 
the reform party Adull’amites (4 syé.), 
and said that Lowe and Horsman, like 


David in the cave of Adullam, yathesed 








CELIA. 


ealind was driven from her oncle’s court, 
‘Celia determined to go with her to the 
forest of Arden to seek out the banished 
duke, and for security sake, Rosalind 
dressed in boy's clothes and called her- 
self “‘Gan'imed,” while Celia dressed as 
a pe t girl and called herself 
<s Alena.” en they reach ee Boot 
they lodged for a time in a shepherd's 
hut, and Oliver de Boys was sent to tell 
them that hie brother Orlando waa hurt 
and could not come to the hut as usual. 
Oliver and Celia fell in love with each 
other, and their wedding day was fixed. 
Ganimed resumed the dress of Rosalind, 
and the two brothers married at the same 
time.—Shakespeare, As Fou Like It 
(1498). 

Celia, a girl of 16, in Whitehead's 
comedy of The School ‘or Lovers, It 
wae written expressly for Mrs. Cibber, 

Mire Cibber was at the the more than 0 years old, bot 
the om: and exact | ion in her 
Sean ta esr reste, ete Rr nero 
the character of “ with all (he Jovenle appearance 
euried by the author.—Percy, 4 needotes, 

Celia, a — name for any lady- 
love: as ‘‘Would you know my Celia's 
charms . ..?” Not unfrequently 
Streph’on is the wooer when Celia is the 
wooed. Thomas Carew calls his “ sweet 
eweeting” Celia; ber real name is not 
known. 

Celia (Dame), mother of Faith, Hope, 
and Charity. She lived in the hospice 
called Holiness. (Celia ia from the Latin, 
oelum, ‘ heaven.”)— Spenser, 
Queen, i, 10 (1590). 


Cel'idon, the scene of one of Arthur's | 


twelve battles, also called ‘ Celidon-the- 
Forest.” and said to be Tweeddale. 
Celyddon was a common term for a 
British forest. 

Céliméne (8 sy!.), a coquette courted 


really good man, both upnightand manly, 
bot bunt in behaviour, rude in aa 
and unconventional). 
liméne to forsake Apap and live with 
him in seclusion; this she 
and he replies, as you cannot find, “' tout 
en mor, comme moi tout en vous, allez, 
je vous refuse.” He then proposes to her 
cousin Eliante (3 ayl.), but Eliante tells 
him she is already engaged to his friend 
Philinte (2 syi.), and so the play ends.— 
Molitre, Le Misanthrope (1606). 
“Céliméne” in Molitre's Les Preciewses 


Foéry | 


Alceste wanta Cé& 
refuses to do, | 








178 CENTAUR. 
daughter of the banished duke. When Ro- 





hidicutes is a mere dummy. She is 
brought on the stage occasionally towands 


the end of the play, but never utters one 
word, and seems a supernumerary uf no 
importance at all. 

Celin’da, the victim of count Fathom's 
noe —Smollett, Cuunt Fathom 
1754). 


Cel'lide (2 syl.), beloved by Valentine 
and his son Franciseo. The lady natorally 
ae the vounger man.—eanmont and 

letcher, Mons, Thomas (1619). 

Celt. rome ealls the irritability 

of the Irish and Welsh 
The blind hysterics of the Celt, 
dn Memoriam, cbt, 

Celtic and Ibe’rian Fields ( The), 

France and Spain. 
re Oe aE a liltou, Commmnn, 00 (1486) 

Celtic Homer (Tie), Ossian, said 
to be of the third century, 

Lf Ossian Lived at the intraduetion of Christianity, as by 
al) appenrinoes he did, bile epeorth will be the Intter ened 
the third nivel beginning of the fourth century. 

of Fingal, who is noe other than Gere 
falle (aon of Beve'rua, cmperor of Rome), and the bottle 
t sgainet Caro or Usrooslos,. . . fin the & of 


Fingal to the third century, and Irish historians place bis 
Ciath in the yeu sm, (esi wae Fingal’s wou.— dre of 


Cenci, Francesco Cenci was a most 
profligate Roman noble, who had four 
sons and one daughter, all of whom he 
treated with abominable cruelty. It is 
suid that he assassinated his two elder 
sons and debauched his daughter Beatrice, 
Heatrice and her two surviving brothers, 
with Lucretia (their mother), conspired 
against Francesco and accomplished his 
death, but all except the youngest brother 
perished on the scaffold, September 11, 


by Alceste (2 sy/.) the “ misanthrope” (a | ool, 


It has been doubted whether the fam- 
ous portrait in the Barberini palace at 
Rome ie really of Beatrice Cenci, and even 
whether Guido Reni waa the painter. 

Perey H. Shelley wrote a tragedy called 
The Cenci (1819). 


Cenimag’ni, the inhabitants of 
Norfolk, Suffolk, and Cambridge.—Ceear, 
Commentaries, 


Centaur (Tie Bive), a human form 
from the waist upwards, and a goat 
covered with blue shag from the waist 















wit, and the political caricaturist of 
Charwari (the F Punch). The count 


was one of the founders of the French 
Republic in 1875. As Cham or Ham was 
the second son and scapegrace of Noah, 
eo Amddde was the second son and scape- 
grace of the comte de Noé [Noah]. 


Cham of Literature, the Great, a nick- 
name given to Dr. Samuel Johnson by 
Smollett in a letter to John Wilkes (1709- 
1784). 

Cham of Tartary, & corruption 
ef Chan or Khan, ti.¢. ‘ lord or prince,” 
as Hoccota Chan. “Ulu Chan” means 
*¢ great lord,” “‘ulu” being equal to the 
Latin and ‘ to dommus or 
tmperator. Sometimes the word is joined 
to the name, as Chan-balu, Cara-chan, 
ete. The Turks have also had their 
“ Sultan Murad chan bin Sultan no 
chan,” i.e. tan Murad prince, son o 
Sultan Selim prince.—Selden, Titles of 
Honour, vi. 66 (1672). 


Chamberlain (Matthew), a tapster, 
the successor of Old Roger Raine (1 sy/.). 
—Sir W. Scott, Peveri of the Peak (time, 
Charles II.). 

Chamont, brother 
“the orphan,” and the troth - plight 
husband of Seri’na (daughter of lord 
Acasto). He is a soldier, so proud and 


of Monimia 


susceptible that he is for ever taking 


offence, and setting himself up as censor 
or champion. e fancies his sister 
Monim’‘ia has lost her honour, and calls 
her to task, but finds he is mistaken. 
He fancies her guardian, old Acasto, has 
not been sufficiently watchful over her, and 
draws upon him in his anger, but sees his 
folly just in time to prevent mischief. He 
fancies Castalio, his sister's husband, has 
ill-treated her, and threatens to kill him, 
but his suspicions are again altogether 
erroneous. an fact, his presence in the 
house was like that of a mad man with 
fire-brands in a stack-yard.—Otway, The 

Orphan (1680). 
There are characters In which he (C. 4. Young) ts 
enrivalied and almost perfect. His ‘ Pierre” [lentes 
is more é than 


Preserend, } sold Kemnbie's ; 
bis “ Chamont” is full of brotherty pride, nubie in- 
oor heroic scorn.—New Monthly Magatine 


Champagne (/lenry earl of), a 
erusader. Sit W. Scott, Zhe Talisman 
(time, Hichard I.). 


Cham ’'perne]’, a lame old gentle- 
man, the busband of Lami’ra, and son- 





CHANTICLEER. 


in-law of jud Vertaign /.).— 
Beaumont wa Fietcher, “Attic rosea 
Lawyer (1647). 


Champion and Severall. A 
‘“‘champion” is a common, or land in 
allotments without enclosures. A 
“‘severall” is a private farm, or land 
enclosed for individual use. A ‘cham- 
pion” also means one who holds an open 
allotment or ‘‘ champion.” 





Champion of the Virgin. St. 
Cyril of Alexandria is so called from his 
defence of the “ Incarnation ” or doctrine 
of the ‘“‘hypostatic union,” in the long 
and stormy dispute with Nesto’rius 
bishop of Constantinople. 


Champneys (Sir Geoffry), a fossi- 
lized old country gertleman, who believes 
in ‘‘blue blood” and the “ British peer- 
age. Father of Talbot, and neighbour 
0 Perkyn Middlewick, a retired butte: - 
man. e sons of these two magnates 
are fast friends, but are turned adrift by 
their fathers for marrying in opposition 
to their wishes. When reduced to abject 
poverty, the old men go to visit their 
sons, relent, and all ends happily. 

Talbot Champneys, a swell with few 
brains and no energy. His name, which 
was his port into society, would not 
find him in salt in the battle of life. 
He marries Mary Melrose, a girl without 
& penny, but his father wanted him to 
ma iolet the heiress. 

Afiss Champneys, sir Geoffry's sister, 
proud and anstocratic, but quite willing 
to sacrifice both on the altar of Mr. 
Perkyn Middlewick, the butterman, if 
the wealthy plebeian would make her 
his wife, and allow her to spend his 
money.—FI. J. Byron, Our Boys (1875). 


Cr andos House (Cavendish Square, 
London), so called from being the resi- 
dence of James B ges, duke of Chan- 
dos, generally call ‘‘The Princely 
Chandos.” 

Chandos Street. (See Caninex 
IsLaNnDs.) 


Chan’ticleer (8 syé.), the cock, is 





CHARLEMAGNE OF SERVIA. 


Charlemarne’s Nine Wives: (1) Hamil- 
trade, a poor frenchwoman, who bore him 
several chi 


dren. (2) Desidera’ta, who 
was divoreed. (3) Hildegarde. A oe 
e 


trade, 
Saxon. (5) Luitgarde the German. The 
made. Ci) Ge before him. (6) Malte- 


) Gersuinde the Saxon. (8) 
Sica, A Seord: La Joyeuse. 
Charlemayne and the Ri * 


- Pasquier 
says that les le Grand fell in love 
with a t girl [ , in whose 


societ y seemed bewitched, insomuch 
that al! matters of State were neylected 
by him ; but the girl died, to the great joy 

all. What, however, was the astonish- 
ment of the court to find that the kin 
seemed no less bewitched with the d 
body than he had been with the living, and 
spent all day and night with it, even when 
its smell was quite offensive. Archbishop 

in felt convinced there was sorcery 

im thi tral infatuati ion, and on ex- 
amining y, found a ring under 
the tongue, which he removed. “echarle- 
magne now lost ali regard for the dead 

y ; but followed Turpin, with whom 
he seemed infatuated. The archbishop 
now bethought him of the ring, which he 
threw into a pool at Aix, where Charle- 
magne built a palace and monastery, and 
no spot in the world had such attractions 
for him as Aix-la-Chapelle, where “the 
ring” was buried.—Accherches de la 
France, vi. 33. 

Charlemayjne not dead. According te 
legend, Charlemagne waits crowned and 
armed in Oden (Hesse) or Untersberg, 
near Saltzburg, till the time of antichrist, 
when he will wake up and deliver Christen- 
dom. (See BARRAKOSSA.) 

Charlemagne and Yeurs of Plenty. Ac- 
cording to German legend, Charlemagne 
appears in seasons of plenty. He crosses 

e Rhine on a golden bridge, and blesses 
Soth corn-fields and vineyards. 

Thou standext, tke im Charlemagne, 
pon ay Longfellow, 4 wtamn, 

Charlemagne of Servia, Stephen 
Dushan. 

Charles ITI. of England, introduced 
by sir W. Scott in two novels, viz., 
Peverit of the Peak and Woodstock. In 
this latter he appears first as a gipsy 
woman, and afterwards under the name 
of Louis Kerneguy (Albert Lee’s page). 

Charles XII. of Sweden. ‘ Deter- 
Mined to brave the seasons, as he had 
Gone his enemies, Charlies XII. ventured 


177 


> SS A ae. 


CHARLES’S WAIN. 
to make long marches during the cold 
of the memorable winter of 1709. In one 
of these marches 2000 of his men died 
from the cold. 


sank, bis last. 
Campbell, The Pleasures of Mepe, ii. (1790). 
(Planché has an historical drama, in 
two acts, called Charies X/I.; and the 
Life of Charles XIT., by Voltaire, is con- 
sidered to be one the best-writies 
historical works in the French language.) 


Charles ‘the Bold,” duke of Lur- 
gundy, introduced by sir W. Scott in 
two novels, viz., Quentin Durward and 
Anne of Ceierstein. The latter novel 
contains an account of the battle of 
Nancy, where Charlies was slain. 


Charles prince -f Wales (called ‘‘ Babie 
Charies”’), son of James [., introduced by 
sir W. Scott in The Fortunes of Nigel. 


Churles “the Good,” earl of Flanders, 
In 1127 he passed a law that whoever 
married a serf should become a serf: 
thus if a prince married a serf, the 

rince would become a serf. This absurd 
aw caused his death, and the death of 
the best blood in Bruges.—S. Knowles, 
The Provost of Bruges (1836). _ 

Charles Edward [Stuart], called 
‘©The Chevalier Prince Charles Edward, 
the Young Pretender,” introduced by sir 
W. Scott in Redjauntlet (time, George 
I1I.), first as ‘‘ father Buonaventura,” 
and afterwards as ‘‘ Pretendcr to the 
British crown.” He is again introduced 
in Waverley (time, George II.). 


Charles Emmanuel, son of Victor 
Amade'us (4 sy/.) king of Sardinia. In 
1730 hie father abdicated, but somewhat 
later wanted his son to restore the crown 
again. This he refused to do; and when 
Victor plotted against him, D’Orme’s 
was sent to arrest the old man, and he 
died. Charles was brave, patient, single- 
minded, and truthful.—R. Browning, 
King Victor and King Charles, etc. 


Charles’s Wain, the constellation 
called The Great Bear, a corruption of 
the old English ceorles wen (‘‘ the churl's 
or farmers waggon"), sometimes still 
further corrupted into ‘‘ King Charles's | 
wain.” 

Heigh ho! An ‘t be not four by the day, Il be hanged. 
Charles’ wain is over the new chimuey.—Shakespwara, 
1 Henry /¥. act fi. ac. 1 (1897). tee's wain. 

$ 
Ca ot et 


% 





CHASTITY. 


.baries and Leon (758, 791-885 abdicated, 
died 842). 


Chastity (Trsts o Alasnam’s 
mirror, Arthur's drinking- om, the boy’s 
mantle, cutting the brawn’s head, Flori- 
mel’s girdle, horn of fidelity, la cou 
enchantée, the mantle “t  nility, “the 
grotto of Ephesus, ete. RADOC, 
and each article ee 

Chateau (See 
CasTLe IN 7HE An.) 

Chatookee, an Indian bird, that 
never drinks at a stream, but catches the 
rain-drope in falling.—Perwd. Account 
of the Baptist Missionaries, ii. 809. 


_(hatitanach (MC Gili), chief of the 
elan Chattan.—Sir W. Scott, Fair Maid 
of Perth (timo, Henry IV.). 


of religion” at the Spe Simon + the man 
relivion ” at the one of the - 
ing committee. Sir’ W. Scott, &. 
Ronan’s Weill (time, George I1I.). 


Chaubert (ons.), Master Chif- 
finch's cook.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the 
Peak (time, Charles JI.). 


Chaucer of France, 
Marot (1484-1544). 


Clément 


Chau’n ce personified in 
The y Phineas Fletcher 
(1633). ‘Fondly oat bitveett with praising 


he dispraised.” Fully described in canto 
viii. (Greek, chawnos, ‘‘ vain.”) 

Chau’vinism, a blind idolatry of 
Napoleon I. Now it is applied to a blind 
ido of France and Frenchmen. A 
chawesn is the person who idolizes. The 
word is taken from ‘Chauvin” in 
Scribe’s Soldat Labourewr, a veteran 
soldier of the first empire, whose admira- 
tion of Napoleon was unbounded, and 
who honoured even ‘‘the shadow of his 
shoe-tie.” 

Such ts the theme on which French chasvinism is 
inexhaustible, —fieces, 1871. 

Cheap as the Sardin’ians 
(Latin). The reference is to the vast 
crowds of Sardinian prisoners and slaves 
brought to Rome by Tiberius Gracchus. 


Cheap Jack means market Jack or 
Jack the chapman. ha ae yo Pe 
**e market,” hence 


Cheat'ly (2 sy. - a loa, tm prudent 





179 











CHEERYBLE BROTHERS. 


debauchee of Alsatia (Whitefriars). He 
dares not leave the ‘‘ refuge” by reason 
of debt ; but in the precincts he fleeces 
young heirs of entail, helps them to 
money, and becomes bound for them.— 
Shadwell, Squire of Alsatia (1688). 


Che’bar, the tutelar angel of Mary, 
sister of Martha and [Lazarus of Bethany. 
—Klopstock, The Messiah, xii. (1771). 


Chedleraza'de (5 yl), mother of 
Hem’junah and wife of Zebene’zer 
sultan of Cassimir’. Her daughter having 
run away to prevent a forced marriage 
with the prince of Georgia, whom she had 
never seen, the sultana pined away and 
died.—Sir C. Morell [J. : Ridley) 1 tale 
the Geni (‘* Princess of Cassi 

vii., 1751). 


Cheder‘les (8 sy!.), a Moslem hero, 
who, like St. George, saved a virgin 
exposed to the tender mercies of a huge 
dragon. He also drank of the waters of 
immortality, and lives to render aid in 
war to any who invoke it. 





When Chederiés comes 
the Moslem on bis deathless horse, 
apa 
Southey, Joan of Are, JP sos, ote. (1887. 


Cheeney (frank), an outspoken 
bachelor. e marries Kate Tyson.— 
Wybert Reeve, Parted. 


Cheerly’ (4/rs.), dau hter of colonel 
Woodley. Yaher te ng married three 
years, she was left pity ow, young, bande 
some, rich, lively, and gay. She came 
to London, and was seen in the opera by 
Frank Heartall, an open-hearted, im- 
pulsive. young merchant, who fell in 

ove with her, and followed her to her 
lodging. Ferret, the villain of the story, 
misinterpreted all the kind actions of 
Frank, attributing his gifts to hush- 
money ; but his character was amply vin- 
dicated, and ‘‘the soldier's daughter” 
became his blooming wife.—Cherry, 
The Soldier's Daughter (1804). 


Miss O'Neill, at the age of 19, made her début at the 
oer hn: a Nebo Crow Street, in 1811, as “The Widow 


Cheeryble Brothers (The), brother 
Ned and brother Charles, the incarnations 
of all that is warm-hearted, generous, 
benevolent, and kind. They were once 
homeless boys running about the streets 
barefooted, and when they grew to be 
wealthy London pmerchants, were ites 
ready to stretch forth a helping h to 

e buffets of 


those struggling against 
fortune. 








CHESTERFIELD. 


ee ee 


Chesterfield (Charlies), a young 
man of i the hero and title of a 
novel by Ars. Trollope (1841). The object 
of this novel is to satirize the state of 
cmsure aathore’ editors, and publishers, 
censure rs, 
os profligate, selfish, and corrupt. 


Chesterfleld House (London) 
built by Isaac Ware for Philp fourth 
earl of Chesterfield, author of Chester- 
field's Letters to His Stm (1694-1778). 


P Chesterton (Paw), nephew to, Mr. 

Chaffington -Droker an Py ot 
—T.M. Morton, If I had @ Thousand a 
Year (1764-1888). 


Chevalier d’Industrie, a man 
who lives by his wits and calls himself a 


66 
gen 
Denicheur de fanvetien, chavalier de Fordre de rindus- 
ote, qual va chereber quelque bon nid, quelque femme qni 
tad fhawe om fortane.—Gongum ou L’homme Prodigioux 


Chevalier Malfet (Ze). So sir 
Launcelot calls himself after he was cured 
of his madness. The meaning of the 
phrase is ‘‘ The knight who has done ill,” 
or ‘* The knight who has tres 
Sir T. Malory, History of Prince Arthur, 
iii, 20 (1470). 


Cheveril (Hans), the ward of Mor- 
dent, just come of Impulsive, 
hot-blooded. He resolves to 
fe a rake, but scorns to be a villain. 
However, he accidentally meets with 
Joanna ‘“‘the deserted daughter,” and 
falls in love with her. He rescues her 
from the clutches of Mrs. Enfield the 
crimp, and marries her.—Holcroff, The 
Deserted Dawyhter (altered into 
Steward 


9 
_— 


placed eiter Lacy in the position 
ote a co etien Beth oil 4 The 

from Holeroft’s Deserted Daughkter.—W. Lacy, 
Letter te W.C. Russell, 


Chevy Chase is not the battle of 
Otterburn, although the two are mixed 

together in the ballad so called. Chevy 
Chase is the chase of the earl of Douglas 
among ‘‘the Chyviat Hyls” after Percy 
of Northumberland, who had vowed ‘‘ he 
would hunt there three days without 
asking the warden's consent.” 


Chibia’bos, the Harmony of Nature 





181 CHICKENS AND THE AUG 











° - on 
. 


personified ; a musician, the friend of 
iawatha, and ruler in the land of spirits, 
When he played on his pipe, the “brooks 
ceased to murmur, the wood-birds to sing, 
the squirrel to chatter, and the rabbit ast 
upright to look and listen.” He was 
drowned in lake Superior by the breaking 
of the ice. 


Most Hiawatha 
Was the gentile Chiblabos 
He of all musicians, 
. o He the sweetest of all singers. = = 
wv, Hawatha, vi. and rv. 


Chi She’.hka.no’], @ litigious 
tradesman, in J L Plaidewrs’ by Racine 


Chich’i-Vache (8 sy/.), a monstes 
that fed only on good women. ‘The word 
nieans the ‘‘ sorry cow.” It was all skin 
and bone, because its food was so ex-~ 
tremely scarce. (See Brcorn.) 

Ps noble fall of beigh prudence, 
Lest Chich!-Vache roa 6 swolive or cotraile 
Chaucer, Canterbury Tales (** Merchant's Tale,” 1388), 

Chick (r.), brother-in-law of Mr. 
Dombey; a stout gentleman, with a 
tendency to whistle and hum airs at in- 
opportune moments. Mr. Chick is some- 
what hen-pecked ; but in the matrimonial 
squalls, though apparently beaten, he not 
unfrequently rises up the superior and 
gets his own way. 

Louisa Chick, Mr. Dombey’s married 
sister. She is of a snappish temper, but 
dresses in a most juvenile style, and is 
persuaded that anything can be accom- 
plished if persons will only ‘‘make an 
effort.” —C. Dickens, and Son 
(1846). 


Chicken (Tie), Michael Angelo 
Taylor, barrister, so called because in his 
maiden s h, 1785, he said, ‘I deliver 
this opinion with great deference, being 
but s chicken in the profession of the 

w.” 


Chicken ( The Game), a low fellow, to be 
heard of at the bar of the Black Badger. 
Mr. Toots selects this man as his instruc- 
tor in fencing, betting, and self-defence, 
The Chicken has short hair, a low fore- 
head, a broken nose, and ‘‘a considerable 
tract of bare and sterile country behind 
see Dickens, Dombey and Son 


Chickens and the Augura, 
When the augurs told Publius Claudias 
Pulcher, the Roman consul, who was 
about to engage the Carthaginian fleet, 
that the sacred chickens would not eat, he 














CHILD IN THE WOOD. 188 CHIRON. 
gare enough on Good Friday, 127/i, the | Chimane (La Belle) or Xime’na, 
countess brought forth 865 at ‘one birth; | daughter of count Lozano de Gormas, 
ell the males were christened Jolin, and | wife of the Cid. After the Cid's death 
the females Elizabeth. were | she defended Valentina from the Moors 


Hague, and the 
hich they were 


tf 
i 
“a 


) younger 
ane), left by a Norfolk gentle- 
wan on his death-bed to the care of his 
deceased wife’s brother. The boy was to 
on coming of age, and 
as a wedding portion ; but 
children died in their minority the 
to the uncle. The 
secure the property, 
rafians to murder the children, 
of them relented and killed his 
of murdering 
them in Wayland Wood, 


“e 


ret! 
a 
4. 


i 
: 


Fi 
ff 
4] 


where they gathered blackberries, but 
died at night with cold and terror. All 
things went ill with the uncle, who 


in gaol, and the ruffian, after a 
an ria seven years, confessed the whole 
iny.—Percy, Reliques, II. ii. 18. 


Children of the Mist, one of the 
branches of the MacGregors, a wild race 
i who had a skir- 
mish with the soldiers in pursuit of Dal- 

vy and M‘Eagh among the rocks 
ch. 14).—Sir W. Scott, Legend of Mont- 
rose (time, Charles 1.). 

heer 3 (Dr.), « 
tended Mrs. Copperfi 
David. 

He was the meskest of his set, the mildent oof little men. 
—C. Dichens, David Copperfield, |. (180). 

Chillon’ (Prisoner of), Frangois de 
Bonnivard, of Lunes, the Gencvese pa- 
triot (1496-1571), whoo pores the enter- 
prises of Charles IIT. (t e duke-bishop 
of Savoy) against the independence of 
Geneva, and was cast by him into the 

rison of Chillon, where he was confined 
or six years. Lord Byron makes him 
one of six brothers, two of whom diced 
on the battle-field; one wae burnt at 
the etake, and three were imprisoned 
at Chillon. Two of the prisoners died, 
but Francois was set at liberty by the 

eople of Berne.—Byron, Prisoner af 
Chillon (1816). 

Chil'minar’, | the cit af rd 

illars,” built by the genii for a lurking- 
ri to hide siiem sires in. Balhac va 
also built by the genii. 


a 


hysician who at- 
at the birth of 


—— SE rl ______eesese_._|_| | |_|__-ee 


with great bravery, but without success, 
Corneille and Guilhem de Cantro have 
introduced her in their tragedies, but the 
réle they represent her to have taken is 
wholly imaginary. 
China, 4 corruption of Tina, the ter- 
ritory of Tsin. The dynasty of Tain 
nc, 256-202) takes the same position in 
‘hinese history as that of the Nomans 
(founded by William the Conqueror) does 
in English history. The founder of the 
Tsin dynasty built the Great Wall, divided 
the empire into thirty-six provinces, and 
made roads or canals in every direction, 
so that virtually the empire ins with 
this dynasty. ; 


Chinaman (John), a man of China, 


Chindasuin'tho (4 syl.), king of 
Spain, father of Theod'ofred, and pone 
father of Roderick last of the Gothie 
kings.—Southey, Roderick, etc. (1814). 


Chinese Philosopher (A). Oliver 
Goldsmith, in the Citizen of the World, 
calla his book “‘ Letters from a Chinese 
Philosopher residing in London to his 
Friends in the East" (1759). 


Chingacheook, the Indian chief, 
ealled in French Le (fros Serpent. Feni- 
more Cooper has introduced this chief in 
four of his novels, Zhe Last of the Mo- 


hicans, The PatAinder, The slayer, 
and Tie J’ioneer. 
Chintz (Mery), Miss Bloomfield's 


maid, the bespoke of Jem Miller.—C. 
Selly, The Unjinished Gentleman, 


Chi'’os (The Man of), Homer, who 
lived at Chios [Ai'.os]. At least Chioe 
was one of the seven cities which laid 
claim to the bard, according to the Latin 
hexameter verse : 

Smyrna, Rhodos, Coliphon, Salim, Chios, a 


Chirn'side ({J:uckie), poulterer at 
Wolf's Hope village.—Sir W. Scott, 
Bride of Lammermoor (time, William III.), 


Chi'ron, « centaur, renowned for his 
skill in hunting, medicine, music, gymnas- 
tics, and prophecy. Hen um bered among 
bis pu ‘ils, Achilles, Peleus, Diomede 
and indeed all the moat ooted heroes o 
Grecian story. Jupiter took him ts 


——o 








- OSIRISTABEL. 





end ascension. 
GAINED.) 


185 
(See Parapiszk Re- 


Chris'tabel (chA=s), the heroine of | 
a poem of the same title by | 


Caristabel, the heroine of an ancient 
romance entitled Sr Eylamour of Artois. 


Christabelle [Aris tote). daughter 
of “a bonnie king of Ireland,” beloved 
by sir Canine (2 sy.) When the king 


knew of their loves he banished sir 
Cauline from the kingdom. Then as 
Christabelle droo e king held a 


tournament for her amusement, every 
prize of which was carried off by an 
unknown knight in black. On the 
lest day came a giant with two ‘‘ gog- 
glag Pe he and mouthe from ear to 
ear, the Soldain, and defied all 
eomers. No one would accept his chal- 

lenge save the knight in black, who 
- succeeded in killing his adversary, but 
© wounds 


the knight was air Canline, the lady 
“fette a sighe, that burst her gentle hearte 
in twa —Percy, Reliques (‘‘ Sir Cau- 
line,” J. i. 4). 

Christian, the hero of Bunyan’s 
allegory called Zhe Pilgrim's Progress. 
He flees from the City of Destruction 
and journeys to the Celestial City. At 
starting he has a heavy pack upon his 
shoulders, which falls off immediately he 
reaches the foot of the cross. (The pack, 
of course, is the bundle of sin, which is 
removed by the blood of the cross. 1678.) 


Ctristian, a follower of Christ. So 
ealled first at Antioch.— Acts xi. 26. 


Christian, captain of the patrol in s 
small German town in which Mathis is 
burgomaster. He marries Annette, the 
burgomaster’s daughter.—J. K. Ware, 
The Polish Jew. 


Christian, synonym of ‘ Peasant” in 
Russia. This has arisen from the abund- 
ant legislation under czar Alexis and czar 
Peter the Great to prevent Christian serfs 
from entering the service of Mohammedan 
masters. NoChristian isallowed to belong 


toa Mohammedan master, andno Moham- | 


medan master is allowed to employ a 
Christian on his estate. 

Chsistian J1, (or Christiern), king of 
Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. When 
the lians rose in rebellion against 
him and chose Gustavus Vasa for their 
lender, 2 great battle was fought, in which 


CHRISTIE. 


the Swedes were victorious ; but Gustavep 
allowed the Danes to retum to thelr 
country. Christian then abdicated, and 
Sweden became an independent kingdom. 
—H. Brooke, Gustavus Vasa (1730). 


Chris’tian (Ed » & conspirator. 
He bas two aliuses, ‘‘ Richard Gan'leese ” 
(2 syl.) and ‘‘ Simon Can’ter.” 

olonel William Christian, Edward’s 
brother. Shot for insurrection. 
Fenella alias Zarah Christi hteg 
of Edward Christian.—Sir Wy, 
Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Christian (Fletcher), mate of the 
Bounty, under the command of captain 
Bligh, and leader of the mutineers. 
After setting the captain and some others 
adrift, Christian took command of the 
ship, and, according to lord Byron, the 
mutineers took refuge in the island of 
Toobouai (one of the Socicty Islands). 
Hero Se one of the mutineers, mar- 
ried Neuha, a native. After a time, a 
ship was sent to capture the mutineers. 
Torquil and Neuhba sae and lay 
concealed in a cave; but Christian, Ben 
Bunting, and Skyscrape were shot. This 
is not according to fact, fur Christian 
merely touched at Toobouai, and then, 
with eighteen of the natives and nine 
of the mutineers, sailed for Tahiti, where 
all soon died except Alexander Smith, 
who changed his name to John Adams, 
and became a model patriarch.—Byron, 
Lhe Island, 


Christian Doctor (Most), John 
Charlier de Gerson (1363-1429). 

Christian Bloquence (The Founder 
of ), Louis Bourdaloue (1632-1704). 


Christian King (fost). So the 


| kings of France were styled. Pepin /e 


Bref was so styled by Stephen 111, 
Gat 768). Charles it le Chaute was 
so styled by the Council of Savonnitres 
(823, 810-877). Louis XI. was so stvled 
by Paul IT. (1423, 1461-1483). 


Christian’a (ch=h), the wife of 
Christian, who started with her children 
and Mercy from the City of Destruction 
long after her husband's slight. She was 
under the guidance of Mr. Greatheart, 
and went, therefore, with silver slippers 
along the thorny road. This forms tha 
second part of Bunyan's Pilyrim's Pro- 
gress (1684). 


Chris’tie (2 syl.) of the Clint Hil, 
one of the retainers of Julian Avenel ( 








+ GHRONOLOGY. 





CHURCH. 





and The Surgeon's Damghter, a 
femoved from this fatterwards 
Sir W. ptaine The Fur Maid te” 
roni 0 
(introduction to The Highland coun 


The Father of), J. J. 
Besliges (iBtonT G0), #) 


Chronon-Hoton-Thol’ ogos (King). 
Py — Bom bardin'ean, 
iving him ha hashed nate = 
serio as great as Chronon- 
logos ve made a ae =e 
on worse.” The king calls his Sool spore 
traitor. ‘“* Traitor in thy 


the general. h d the ki ki 
dies.—H. Carey Thy gh, and e king 
ate * 


meine Mir (2 Ay), tread 9 of Ar- 


“Chryeat e (2 syl.),, ), a simple-minded, 
hen-pecked French tradesman, whose wife 
Philaminte (3 sy/.) neglects her house for 
the learned languages, women's ts, 
and the aristocracy of mind. He is him- 
self a plain practical man, who has no 
eympathy with the pas blue movement. 
two daughters, Armande (2 sy/.) 

a Henriette, Toth of whom love Cli- 
tandre; but Anrmande, whois a “ blue- 
stocking,” loves him platonicly ; while 
i who is a “thorough woman,” 
loves him with woman's love. Chryasale 
sides with his daughter Henriette, aud 
when he falls into money difficulties 
through the “ Jearned proclivities " of his 
wife, Clitandre comes forward like a 
man, and obtains the consent of both 
— to his marriage with eee 

oliere, Les Femmes Savantes (1672) 


Chrysa’or (ch = &), the sword of 
ar Ar'tegal, which ““exceeded all other 
ewords.” Jt once belonged to Jove, and 
was need by him against the Titans, but 
it had been laid aside till Astrea gave 
it to the Knight of Justice, 

CH mat reeetal it was i 
dimant... bo mleianics We m. . 


But it would plerce or cleave whereso it enme, 
Spenser, Falry Que, v, (1500), 


*,* The poet tells us it was broken to 
pieces by igund queen of the Ama- 
gona (bk. v. 7), yet it re-appears whole 


and sound (canto 12), when it is used with 
good service against Grantorto (fhe spirit 
rebellion). Spenser says it was called 
rysnor because “the blade was gar- 
nished all with ,old.” 


| Harlequin Padinenaba, in 1810. 





Chrysa’or son of Neptune and Medu'sa, 
He married Callir’rhod (4 syl.), one af 
the sea-nympha., 

neha out of the sna, 


Chryseis [Ari.see’. a] hter of 
Chrysés priest of Apollo. e was 
famed for her beanty and her embroidery, 
During the Trojan war Chryseis was taken 
eaptive and allotted to Agamemnon 
king of Argos, but her father came to 
ransom her. The king would a accept 
the offered ransom, and Chry yah cana 
—-e ee enigtt tall onthe ees 

His prayer was answered, er 
in ender to avert the plague Agamemnon 
gent the lady back to her father not only 
without ransom but with costly gifts.— 
Homer, Jiiad, i. 


m, a famous scholar, who 


| _ Chrysosto 
died for love of Marcella, “rich Wil- 


liam's daughter.” 


Peter gory He Sain Ahern Rg 
Galen 
ft and a without . rrbinleet, 
complaint meno in a worl, ee the 
foremast in peotuame of heart, and ascond to 
colefurtunes. tatunienDorensiten, Sen Guiata L 1 SHE. 


Chucks, the boatewain ander captain 
Savage.—Captain Marryat, Peter Sunple 
(1833). 


Chuffey, Anthony Chuzzlewitt's old 
clerk, almost in his dotage, but master 
and man love each other with sincerest 
affection. 

Chuffey fell back inte a dark corner on ona side of the 
fire-) lnc, where be always epent hls evenings, and was 
neither aan mor .. « BPO ones, when o cmp of 
ten was given ey ee 
breed rocchanically. : He remaloed, as It were, [rocen 
op, Wo aey tari. eupresiive of such & rigurcus process cin 
ar eee mi, Martian Chase eit, ol 

Chunes (A /a), very huge and bulky. 
Chunce waa the largest elephant ever 
brought to England. Henry Iarris, 
manager of Covent Garden, ‘bought it 
for £900 to appear in the pantomime of 
It was 
subsequently sold to Cross, the pro- 

rietor of Exeter ‘Change, Chunce at 

ength became mad, and was shot by a 
detachment of the Guards, receiving 15z 
wounds. The skeleton is preserved in 
the museum of the College of Surgeons, 


| Tt is 12 fect 4 inches high. 


Church. J yo to church to hear God 

raised, not the fing. This was the wise 

ut severe rebuke of George III. to Dr. 
Wilson, of St. Margaret's Charch, lon 
don. 








CID. 189 





then assembled hie vaseals, and marched 
against the Moors, whom he conquered 
im several battles, so that Alphonso was 
necessitated to recall him. Both Cor- 
neille and Guilhem de Cantro have 
admirable ies on the subject; 
Roses Neil has an lish drama called 
The Cid; Sanchez, 1775, wrote a 
long of 1128 verses, called Poema 
del - Southey, in his 
Chronicle of Cid (1808), has collected 
al] that is known of this extraordinary 


(It was The Cod (1686) which gained for 
ille the title of ‘“‘ Le Grand Cor- 


aeille. 
The 8 Father, don Diego Lainez. 
The Cod's Mother, dotia Teresa Nuiiez. 
The Cid’s Wife Xime’na, daughter of 
e 


eount Lozano Gormaz. The French 
call ber Za Belle Chiméne, but the rdle 
ascribed to her by Corneille is wholly 
imaginary. 
Sever move © thine own castle 
Wile thon turn Bableca’s ren ; 
Never will thy loved Kinena 
Gee thee at ber side agnin. 


The Cid’s Children. His two daughters 
were Elvi’ra and Sol; his son Diego 
Rodriquez died young. 

The Cid's Horse was Babieca [either 
Bab.i.é’.keh or Ba.bee’.keh}. It survived 
ite master two years and a half, but no one 
was allowed to mount it. Babieca was 
buried before the monastery gates of 
Valencia, and two elms were planted to 
mark the spot. 


Troth it goodly was and pleasant 
To bebold him at their head, 


(Here ‘* Babieca” is 4 sy/., but in the 
verse above it is only 3 sy. 

The Cid’s Cola’da and Tizo’na 
(*‘ terror of the world”). The latter was 
taken by him from king Bucar. 


Cid (The Portuguese), Nunez Alva’rez 
Perei’ra (1360-1431). 

Cid Hamet Benengeli, the hy- 

ical author of Don Guizote, (See 

ENENGELI.) 

Spanish commentators have discovered 
this peendonym to be only an Arabian 
version of Bignior Cervantes. Cid, i.e. 
“signior;” Hamet, a Moorish prefix 3 
and qeli, meaning ‘‘son of a stag. 
80 cereato (‘‘a young stag”) is the basis 
of the name Cervantes. 


Cid li, the daughter of Jairus, re- 
etored to life by Jesus. She was beloved 


by Sem‘ida, the young man of Hain, alos 





CINQ-MARS. 





raised by Jesus from the dead. Op: 
stock, Zhe Messiah, iv. (1771). 


Cil’laros, the horse of Castor or 
Pollux, so named from Cylla, in Troas. 


Cimmerian Darkness. Homer 
places the Cimmerians beyond the Océiinus, 
in a land of never-ending gloom; and 
immediately after Cimmeria, he 
the empire of Hadés. Pliny (Astoria 
Naturals, vi. 14) places Cimmeria nesr 
the lake Avernus, in Italy, where “the 
sun never penetrates.” Cimmeria is now 
called Kertch, but the Cossacks call it 
Prekla (Hell). 

There under ebon shades and iow-browed necks . . . 

In dark Cimmerian deserts 


ever dwell. 
Milton, L’Aegro (1000). 
‘ Ye spectre-doubts that reli 
Chumerian ness on the parting soul. 
Campbell, Pleasures ef Hope, \i. (1790). 


Cincinna‘tus of the Americans, 
George Washington (1732-1799). 

Cinderel’la, the heroine of a fairy 
tale. She was the drudgeof the house, “‘put 
upon” by her two elder sisters. While the 
elder sisters were at a ball, a fairy came, 
and having arrayed the ‘‘little cinder- 
girl” in ball costume, sent her in a mag- 
nificent coach to the palace where the ball 
was given. The prince fell in love with 
her, but knew not who she was. This, how- 
ever, he discovered by means of a “‘ glass 
slipper” which she dropped, and which 
fitted no foot but her own. 

(This tale is substantially the same as 
that of Rhodopis and Psammit'ichus in 
#lian (Var. Hist., xiii. 32). A similar 
one is also told in Strabo ((eoq. xvii.).) 

The glass slipper should be the fur 
slipper, pantoujfle en vair, not en verre ; out 
version being taken from the Contes de 
Fees of C. Perrault (1697). 


Cinna, a tragedy by Pierre Corneille 
(1637). Mdl!le. Rachel, in 1838, took the 
chief female character, and produosed 
& great sensation in Paris. 


Cing-Mars (H. Coiffer de Ruze, 
marquis de), favourite of Louis XITI. and 
protéyé of Richelieu (1620-1642). Irri- 
tated by the cardinal’s opposition to his 
marriage with Marie de Gonzague, Cing- 
Mars tried to overthrow or to assassinate 
him. Gaston, the king's brother, sided with 
the conspirator, but Richelieu discovered 
the plot, and Cinq-Mars, being arrested, 
was condemned to death. Alfred de 
Vigny published, in 1826, a novel (in 
imitation of Scott’s historical novels) om 
the sub-ect, under the title of Cinq-Mara, 











=D 


191 CIVIL WARS, 














ilding is in love with Beaufort, 
she behaves so sillily to her betrothed 
thet he refuses to marry her, whereupon 
eha gives her hand to Beaufort (1757). 


Citizen ( The), Louis Phili 
the first electi of F 1b 
ta em coat ng. at Fnac (Ia 


City, Cities. 
Churches, Brook! N 
York! which has an unusual nutaber of 
charches. 


7 «Bole ps 
in the story of “‘ Beder Prince 
of Persia.”"—Aratian Nights’ Entertain- 
ments, 


ity of God, the Church or whole bod 
at bellevere The phrase is used by Se. 


ity of Lanterns, an imaginary cloud- 
city somewhere beyond the zodi 
i Vera Historia. 
City of Legions, Caerleon-on-Usk. New- 
rt is the port of this ancient city 
Monmouthshire and Glamorganshire). 
t was in the City of Legions that Arthur 
beld his court. It contained two cathe- 
drals, viz., St. Juliusand St. Aaron, built in 
honoar of two martyrs who suffered death 
here in the reign of Diocletian. 

City of Masts, London. 

City of Monuments, Baltimore, in Mary- 
land. One of its streets is called Monu- 
ment Street. : 

City of Paluces, Three cities are so 
called: (1) Rome from the reign of 
Augustus. Agrippa converted “a city of 
brick huts into a city of marble palaces.” 
ed fee (3) St. Petersburg is 80 
from its numerous Imperial and 

ore 

ity o uge, Medi’na, in Arabi 

where Mahomet took refu ve when driven 
by conspirators from Mecca. He en- 
the city nct as a fugitive, but in 


triumph (A.D. 622), 
Cites of Refuge, Bezer, Ramoth, and 
Golan (east of Jordan) ; Hebron, She- 


ebem, and Kedesh (west of that river). 
— Dent - iv. 43 i slosh. xx 1-8. 

ity of t reat King, Jerusalem.— 
Ponies x{ciii. 2; Matt. v.25. 





Cities of the Plain, Sodom and Go- 
mene xiii. tai! 

ity o rophe i’na, in Arabia, 
where Manornet was protected when he 
fled from Mecca July 16, A.D. 622). 


Cty of the 
Greek, eliop’olis (‘‘sun-city”). 

*,* In panella’s romance the 
‘* City of the Sun” is an ideal republic, 
constructed on the model of Plato's 
republic. It is an hypothetical perfect 
society or theocratic communism. Sir 
T. More in his Utépia, and lord Bacon 
in his Aé/antis, devised similar cities. 

City of the Tribes, Galway, in Ireland, 
“the residence of thirteen tribes,” which 
"City of the West, Glasgow, in Scotland 

ity of t est, G » in ’ 
situate on the Clyde, the principal river 
on the west coast. 

The Cleanest City in the World, Broek, 


in Holland, which is “painfully neat 


and clean.” 

The Seven Cities, Jerusalem, 
Babylon, Athens, Rome, Constantinople, 
and London (for commerce) or Paris (for 
beauty). 


(In the Seven Wonders of the World, 
the last of the wonders is doubtful, some 
giving the Pharos of Egypt, and others 
the Palace of Cyrus; so again in the Seven 
Sages of Greece, the seventh is either 
Periander, Myson, or Epimenidés.) 


City Madam (The), a comedy by 
Philip Massinger (1633). She was the 
daughter of a farmer named Goodman 
Humble, and married a merchant, sir 
John Frugal, who became immensely 
wealthy, but retired from business, and 
by a deed of gift transferred his wealth 
to his brother Luke, whereby madam and 
her daughter were both dependent on 
him. uring her days of wealth the 
extrav ce of lady Frugal was un- 
bounded, and her dress costly beyond 
conception; but Luke reduced her state to 
that of farmers’ daughters in general. 
Luke says to her: 

Stirred You were served in plate; 
picnic fetranln wt 
Your pomp. 
of actual Life Wieallzed into & ceed cede eee ey Dieter 
—Profemor Spalding, 
Civil Wars of England. 


There Dutton Dutton kills; a Done doth kill 
A Booth a Booth, and Leigh by Leigh ls overthrown 3 
A Venables against a Venables doth stand ; 

A Troutbeck fighteth with a Troutbeck hand to hand; 











CLARE. 
tacter in Goethe's Egmont, noted for her *,* ‘(Estifania,” in Rule a Wife and 
eenstancy and devotion. Have a Wife, by E Beaumont and Fletcher. 


Clare (Ada), cousin of Richard Car- 
stone, both of whom They wary and 


but Richard ‘dies ye ii 
Oo 
by te e's delay in the, ra Chae 
Dicken, Bloat 2 ce v. 
fouse (1853). 
"Clarsnoe George duke of), intro- 
duced by non (Seep dle fi 
stem (time, Edward 1V.). 


porence and the 


a pean Fee to tradi Geome 
tion, 
eer Clarence, joined Wave 
to Heary VI. on on the throne, was 
to death, the choice being offered 
was drowned m a butt of malmsey 
wine (1478). 
“Twere better sure te dis a0, than be shut 
With mandiis Clarence malmesy- butt. 
Byroa, Don Juan, |. 166 (1819). 
Clarendon (The car! of), lord chan- 
cellor to Charles 11. Introduced by sir 
W. Scott in Woodstock (time, Common- 


wealth). 

Claribel (Sir), surnamed. “ The 
Lewd.” One of the six knights who con- 
tended for the false Florimel.—Spenser, 
Fatry Queen, iv. 9 (1596). 

Clar'sbel, the pseudonym of Mrs. 

author of numerous popular 
songs (from 1865 to ). 


Clarice (3 8!.), wife of Rinaldo, and 
sister uf Huon of Bordeaux. Introduced 
in the romances of Bojardo, Ariosto, 
‘lasso, ete. 


rrntiyen nC. 


Clarin or Clarin’da, the con- 
fidential maid of Radigund queen of the 
Am’azons. When the queen had got sir 
Ar’teyal into her power, and e him 

bis armour for an apron, and his 

sword for a distaff, she fell in love with 
the captive, | and sent Clarin to win him 
over by fair promises and indulgences. 
Clarin performed the appointed mission, 
but fell in love herself with the knight, 
and told the queen that sir Artegal was 
and rejected her advances with 


Faéry Queen, v. 5 


Clarinda, the heroine of Mrs. Cent- 
tvre’e ¢ drama The Beau's Duel (1703). 


ovuid be more ca than Mrs. Pritchard 

Dru a teiiy Maxtor = Ties Gaeen in Hamlets 
Extifenia ine in short, every 

a recatver ber a pulish and Te ection th thas 


Qateure 
Which nothing ould 'e more truly captivating.—C. Dib- 
On metore, cae ace. 


CLAUDINE, 





Clarin'da, a merry, good-humoured, 

high-spirited lady, in love with Charles 

Frankly. The madcap Ranger is her 
cousin.—Dr. Hoadly, 

Husband (1747). 


Clarinda of Robert Burns, was Mrs. 
Maclehose, wno was alive in 1883. 


wa et ion, the son and heir of Mus- 
He was the fairest and most 
cron perous of all the race of ier, 
Aragnol, the son of Arachné (the s 
entertained a deep and secret 
of tho young prince, and set himself t od 
destroy him ; so, weaving a most curious 
net, Clarion was soon caught, and Aragnol 
ve him his death-wound by piercing 


im under the left wing.—Spenser, 
re eae or The Butterfiy's Fate 
'Claris’sa, wife of Gripe the 
scrivener, A lazy, lackadaisical, fine 


city lady, who thinks ‘“‘a woman must 
be of mechanic mould who is either 
troubled or pleased with anything her 
husband can do" {act i. 3). She has ‘‘ wit 
and beauty, with a fool to her husband,” 
but tho “fool,” a hard, grasping, 
mean, ¢ old hunks. 


subjecta for spleen than one. Is it not a 
moat horrible Dlg eee | one ce ee eter eet 


Don't you, think natare nature designed me for something 
elevte}) Why, | dare abuse nobody. for something pha 
pet hd . or to ruin their reputations. ... 


Confederacy, i. 3 

Claris’sa, sister of Beverley, plighted 
to Geo rge Bellmont.—A. Murphy, All in 
the Wrouy (1761). 


Clarissa Harlowe. 
LOWE.) 

Clark (The Rev. T.), the pseudonym 
of Juhn Gall, the novelist (1779-1839). 


Clarke (The Rev. C. C.), one of the 
many pseudonyms of sir Richard Philli 
author of The Hundred Wonders of the 
World (1818), Readings in Natural 
Philosophy. 

Cla’tho, the last wife of Fingal and 
mother of Fillan, Fingal's youngest son. 


Claude ( The English), Richard Wilson 
(1714-1782). 
Clau'dine (2 sy/.), wife of the porter 
of the hotel Harancour, and old nurse of 
° 


(See Har- 


| 








CLEANTE. 


195 


CLEMENTINA. 





Cleante (2 - “ls of 
Orgon.. He G eae rr a . his 
geduine piety, and tare tind 
(1664). 

Ciéante (2 syl.), son of Har’ the 


pagon 

miser, in love with Mariane (3 syl.). 
Harpagon, though 60 years old, wished 
marry the same young lady, but 
Ciéente solved the difficulty thus: He 
up a casket of gold from the garden 
hilien 1 under a tree by the miser, an 
m was raving about the loss 


of bis gold Cléante told him he mi ttake 
his choice between Mariane and the gold. 
The miser the casket, which was 


restored to him, and Cidante married 
Mariane.—Molitre, L’ Avare (1667). 
Ciéante (2 sy/.), the lover of Angelique 
daughter of the malade imaginarre. 
Argan promised Angelique in 
to Thomas Diafoirus a young 
wurgeon, Cidante carries on his love as 
& music-master, and though Argan is 
present, the lovers sing to each other their 
Plans under the guise of an interlude 
ealled “‘Tircis and Philis.” Ultimately, 
Argan assents to the marriage of hie 
daughter with Cicante.—Moliere, 
yf Imaginaire (1673). 


Clean'the (2 syl.), sister of Siphax 
of Paphos.—Beaumont and F letcher The 
Mad (1617). 


Cleanthe (3 syl.), the lady beloved by 
Ion.—Talfourd, Jon (1835). 


Clean’thee (8 syi.), son of Leon‘idés 
and husband of Hippolita, noted for his 
filial piety. The duke of Epire made a 
law that all men who had attained the 
age of 8) should be put to death as use- 
less incumbrances of the commonwealth. 
Simonidés, a youn libertine, admired the 
law, but Cleanthés looked on it with 
horror, and determined to save his father 
from its operation. Accordingly, he gave 
out that his father was dead, and an 
ostentatious funeral took place; but 
Cleanthés retired to a wood, where he 
concealed Leon’idés, while he and his wife 
waited on him and administered to his 
wants.—TZhe Old Law (a comedy of 
Philip Massinger, T. Middleton, and W. 
Rowlev, 1620). 

woe (Holdfast), a 

wright. —Si We Bee Scott, 
(time, Charles II.). 


on sh’ botham (Jedediah), school- 
master and parish clerk of Gandercleuch, 


uritan mill- 
everil of the 


who emplo ed his assistant teacher to 
arrange and edit the tales told the 
landiord of the Wallace inn tue 
same These tales the editor dis- 
posed in three series, called by the 
title of The Zales of H. (gq. 0.)- 
See introduction of Black Dear} 
course the real author is sir Walter 

Scott (1771-1832). 

Mrs. Dorothea 


Cleishbotham, wife 
schoolmaster, a a, perfect Kanes, and 
‘*sworn sister of the Eumen/idés.” 


Ole‘lia or Clos‘lia, a Roman maiden, 
one of the hostages given to Por’sena. 
She made her escape from the Etruscan 
camp by swimming across the Tiber. 
Being sent back by the Romans, Porsena 
not only set her at liberty for her gallant 
deed, but allowed her to take with her 
a part of the hostages. Mlle. Scudéri 
has a novel on the subject, entitled 
Clélie, Histoire Romaine. 

Our statues—not 


Of Agrippina. 
Tennyson, The Princess, ti. 


Cle’'lia, a vain, frivolous female butter- 
fly, with a smattering of everything. In 
youth she was a coquette; and when youth 
Wab pasoed, tried sundry means to earn 
a living Borne but without success. —Crabbe, 

(1810). 


Clélie (2 sul), the heroine of a novel 
so called by Mdlle. Scudéri. (See 
CLELIA.) 


Clement, one of the attendants of 
sir Reginal Front de Beuf (a follower of 
prince John).—Sir W. Scott, /canhoe 
(time, Richard I.). 


Clement (Juste), a man quite able 
to discern between fun and _ crime. 
Although he had the weakness ‘of 
justices’ justice,” he had not the weak- 
ness of ignorant vulgarity. 

Knowell. They my be will commit a man for taking the 


wall of bis hove. of 
Wellbred. Ay, ot for one shonider, 

Fee ee tit corner in the way 
of his humour.—B. Jonson, Every Man in His Humour, 


or serving God. An 
iil. 3 (1588). 

Clementi'na (The 1), anamiable, 
delicate, beautiful, accomplished, but un- 
fortunate woman, "dee eeply in love with sir 
Charles Grandison. Sir Charles married 
Harriet Biron.—S. Richardson, The Hise 
tory of Sir Charles Grandison (1758). 

Those menes relating to the history of Clementina 
contain pamages of deep pathos —Zncye. Brit. Art. 


Shakespeare himself has scarcely drawn 8 more affect- 
ing or harrowing picture of high-eouled suffering aad 








CLESSAMMOR. 197 





elle] “St. Nicholas’s Clergymen,” in 
allusion to the tradition of ‘‘ St. Nicholas 
and the thieves.” Probably a play on 
the words Nich-olas and Wid Nick may 


be designed.—See Shakespeare, 1 Henry 


IV. act ii. ec. 1 (1597). 


Cless’ammor, son of Thaddu and 
brother of Morna (Fingal's mother). He 
married Momma, daughter of Reutha'mir 
(the principal man of Halclutha, on the 
Clyde). It so happened that Moina was 


beloved by o Briton named Reuda, who | 


came with an army to carry her off, 
Keoda was slain by Clessammor; but 
Cheuammor, being closely pressed by 
the Hritons, fled, and never again saw 
his bride. In due time o son was 
born, called Carthon; but the mother 


died. While Carthon was still an infant, | 
Fingal's father attacked Balclutha, and | 


slew Reuthama (Carthon's grandfather). 
When the boy grew to manhood, be 


determined on vengeance; accordingly | 


he invaded Morven, the kingdom of 
Fingal, where Clessammor, not knowing 
who he was, engaged him in single 
combat, and slew him, When ha dis- 
covered that it was his son, three days he 
mourned for him, aod ou the fourth he 
died. ian, Carthon. 

Cleve'land (Barbara Villiers, duchess 
of), one of the mistresses of Charles II., 
introduced by sir W. Scott in /everil of 
the Peak. 

Cleveland (Captain Clement), alias 
Vaucnan [ Varn], ‘the pirate,” son of 
Noma of the Fi Head. He is in love 
with Minna Troil (daughter of Magnus 
Troil, the udaller of Zetland).--Sir W. 
Scott, The Pirate (time, William 1II.). 

Clever, the man-servant of Hero 
Sutton ‘‘the city maiden.” When Hero 
assumed the guise of a quaker, Clever 
called himself Obadiah, and pretended to 
be a rigid quaker also. is constant 
exclamation was ‘‘Umph!"—S. Knowles, 
Woman's Wit, etc. (1838). 

Clifford (Sir Thomas), betrothed to 
Julia (daughter of Master Walter ‘‘ the 
hunchback” ‘es He a me ponees pee 
ful, and well-favour ind, valiant, an 
pradent.—S. Knowles, The Hunchback 
(1831). 

Cufford (Mr.), the heir of sir William 
Charlton in right of his mother, and in 
love with lady Emily Gayville. The 
scrivener Alscrip had fraudulently got 
possession of the deeds of the Chariton 
estates, which he had given to his 





CLINKER, 


danchter called “ the heiress,” and which 
amounted to £2000 a year; but Rightly, 
the lawyer, discovered the frand, . 
“the heiress" was compelled tw relin- 
nish this part of her fortune. Clifford 
hen proposed to lady Emily, and was 
Pn eager Burgoyne, Lhe Lewes 
(1781). 

Cliford (Paul), a highwayman, re- 
formed by the power of love.—Lord 
Lytton, /aw Clijford (1830). 

Clifford (Aosamond), usually called 
“The Fair Kosamond,” the favourite 
mistress of Henry Il.; daughter of 
Walter lord Clifford. She is introduced 
by sir W. Scott in two novela, The Talis 
man and Woodstock, Dryden says: 

Jane Clifford was ber name, as books aver, 

“Falr Roamond” wes but her nom de peerre, 

Lpliegue to Henry II. 

Clifford (Henry lord), a general in the 
English army.—Sir W. Scott, Custle 
Dangerous (time, Henry I.). 

Clifford Street (London), so named 
from Llizabeth Clifford, daughter of the 
last earl of Cumberland, who married 
Kichard Boyle, earl of Burlington, (See 
SAVILE Row.) 

Clifton (Harry), lieutenant of H.M. 
ship Zwer. A daring, dashing, care-for- 
nobody young English sailor, delighting 
in adventure, and loving a good scrape. 
He and his companion Mat Mizen take 
the side of El Hyder, and help to re- 
eatablish the Chereddin, prince of Delhi, 
who had been dethroned by Hamet Ab- 
dulcrim.—Barrymore, E/ Hyder, Chief of 
the Giuut Mountains, 


Clim of the Clough. (See Crm.) 


Clink ony the turnkey at New- 
gate.—Sir W. Scott, Pereril of the Peak 
(time, Charles I1.). 


Clinker (fumphry), a poor work- 
house lad, put out by the parish as 
apprentice to a blacksmith, and after- 
wards employed as an ostler's assistant 
and extra postilion. Being dismissed 
from the stables, he enters the service 
of Mr. Bramble, a fretful, grumpy, but 
kind-hearted and generous old gentle- 
man, greatly troubled with gout. Here 
he falls in love with Winifred Jenkias, 
Mise Tabitha Bramble’s maid, and turns 
ey to . ry agg et of Mr. ag ta 

- Smollett, The Lpedition of Hwaphry 
Clinker (1771). 


(Probably this novel suggested to O, 
Dickens his Adventures of Olwer Twist.) 








CLORIB. 


198 








CLUTHA, 





tet Pmcnt pagans 


ees Fletcher The Pulhful Shepherdess (1620). 


the damsel beloved b 
Cloris, the a : eae 


Ciptaire (3.9t). The king of France 
exclaimed on his death-bed, “Oh how 
great mast be the King of Hea 


can kill wat fen eae 


Cloten or Cloton, king 
wall, one of the five ki Sof Britain 
after the extinction of the line of Hrute 
(L142). 

Clo'ten, a vindictive lout, son of the 
second wife of Cymbeline by a former 
ceeee He is noted for “his unmean- 


vg Pog et Srafliiog gait, his burst 

IrelerntSénnee, his 
sd fits 0 o vee al frowurd 
tetchiness, unprincip malice, and 
occasional gleams of geod sense * Gloten 
is the rejected lover of Imogen ~ 


danghter of hia father-in-law by his 
wife), and is alain in a duel de Guideris 
—Shak Cymbel 


espeare, ine (1605 


am!" 


of Corm- 


| 


if He | 


Miss Hoyden, 


Clotha’rius or ieptaian leader of | 


the Franks after the death of Hugo. He 
is ehot with an arrow by Clorinda,— 
Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered, xi. (1675). 


Cloud. A dark spot on the forchead 
of a horse between the eyes is so called, 
It gives the creature a sour look indicative 
of bid ogi and is therefore regarded as 
a blemish. 


Ba [di mftony) has a clood In bis face, 
aokirbut ta were the worse for Ua! wore be a 
OE in Oe RT 


Ciowd (St.), patron saint of nail-smiths. 
Ate on the French word cluu (‘‘a 


Cloudes'ley ( Wilham of), a famous 
North-country archer, the companion of 
Adam Bell and Clym of the Clongh, 
Their feats of robbery were chietly carried 
on in Englewood Borest, near Carlisle. 
William was taken prisoner at Carlisle, 
and was about to be hanged, but was 
rescued by his two companions. The 
three then went to London to ask pardon 
of th: king, which at the queen’ ‘8 inter- 
cession was granted. The king s besged 
to see specimens of their skill in im axchany 
and was so delighted therewith, that 
made William a ‘‘ gentleman of. fe," and 
the other two “ yemen of his chambre." 


The feat of William was very similar to 
that of William Tell (¢.0.).—Perey, 
Reliques, 1. ii. 1. 


Clout, (Colin), a shepherd loved by 


Marian ' ns mai but for 
whom Colin ewe | loved Geely 
affection. (See Cotix CLovut, 


Young Colin Clout, = iad of peerless mood, 
Full well ond deftly tune the rend; 
In every wood his carols aweet. were known, 
Atevery woke bis olmble feats were shown. 
Gay, Magerad, ii (1714) 
Clout (Lodbin), a herd, in love with 
Blouzelinda. He ght ron Cuddy to a 


contest of song in praise of their respec- 
tive sweethearts, and Cloddipole was 
appointed umpire. Cloddipole was os wntalie 
to award the prize, for merited “an 
oaken staff for his pains." ‘‘ Have done, 
somerens § for the herds are weary of the 

re so am I,"—Gay, Pastoral, i, 
sar ee 


An imitation of Virgil's Eel. iii.) 


ia ib-Bearer (The), Periphe'tés, the 
robber of Ar’golis, w o murdered his 
victims with an iron club.—Grees Fable, 


Clumsey (ir nese fs father of 
A mean, ill-mannered 

squire and justice of the peace, living 
near Searborongh. Most cringing to the 
aristocracy, whom he toadies and courte, 
Sir Tunbelly promised to give his 
darghter in marrage to lord Foppington, 
but Tom Fashion, his lordship’ Essie, i 
brother, pretends to be lord Foppington, 
ins admission to the famil fe marries 
ex When the real lord” Foppington 
arrives, he ia treated as an impostor, but 
Tom confesses the ruse. His lordship 
treats the knight with such ineffable con- 
tempt, that sir Tunbelly’s temper is 
arvused, and Tom is received into ‘high 
favour. —Sheridan, A Trip ta A 

(1777). 

" This character appears in Van- 
brugh's sepa of which comedy the 


ane Scarborough is an abridgment 
saaceanies. 


‘sae the name of Belgrade's dog, 

Clu'ricaune (5 sy/.), an Irish elf of 
evil disposition, especially noted for his 
knowledge of hid treasure. He generally 
assumes the appearance of a wrinkled old 
man. 


Clu'tha, the Cly - 





COBB. 201 


of the As'tecas by the White 

the chief priest declared that some one 
had atraitor, and resolved to dis- 
cover who it was by handing round a cup, 


which he said w be harmless to the 
i but death to the guilty. When | 
it was to Coa ashe was 50 


frightened that she dropped down dead. 
Her father stabbed himself, and “fell 
upon his child,” and when Lincoya heard 


thereof, he Sang hime! down fromasteep | 


precipice on to the rocks below.—Southey, 


Madoc (1805). 

Cobb (Ephraim), in Cromwell's troop. 
—Sir W. aes Woodstock (me, Com 
monwealth). 


Cobbler-Poet (The), Hans Sachs 


of Nuremberg. (See Twx_vze Wisk 
Masrxrs. 
Cobham (Eleanor), wife of Hum- 


y duke Gloucester, and aunt of 

ing Henry V1., compelled to do penance 
bare-foot in a sheet in London, and after 
that to live in the Isle of Man in banish- 
ment, for “sorcery.” In 2 Henry VI, 
Shakespeare makes queen Margaret ‘‘ box 
her ears,” but this could not be, as 


Eleanor was banished three years before | 


Margaret came to England. 


Stand forth, dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloster’s wife... 
You, madam . . . despoiléd of your bonour . . . 


Live tp your country here In banishment, 
With sir John Stanley, In the Isle of Man. 
Shakespeare, 2 Henry '"/. act ti. se. 3 (1881). 
Cocagne (The Land of), a poem full 
of life and animation, by Hans Sachs, 
the cobbler, called ‘‘The prince of meis- 


ter-singers ” (1494-1574).—See Cockaigne. 


Cock and Pie. Douce explains thus: 


Ip the days of chivalry it was the practice to make 
solemn vows for the performance of any considerable 
enterpri-e. This was usually dune al suine festival, when 
a rested peacock, being served up in a dish of guld or 
stiver, was presenied to the knight, who then made his 
vow with great solemnity. 

Cock of Westminster (7hc). 
Castell, a shoemaker, was so called from 
his very early hours. He was one of the 


benefactors of Christ's Hospital (London). 


Cockade. 

The Black Cuckade. Badge of the 
house of Hanover, worn at first only by 
the servants of the royal household, the 
diplomatic corps, the army, and navy; 
but now worn by the servants of justices, 
deputy-lieutenants, and officers both of 
the militia and volunteers. 

The White Cockade. (1) Badge of the 
Ktuarta, and hence of the Jacobites. (2) 


of the Bourbons, and hence of the 
poe 8 of France, 


The White atid Gen Cockade, 





COCKLE, 


wor by the French inthe * Seven Years’ 
War" (1756), 

The Blue and Red Cochade. Badge of 
the city of Paris from 1789, 

Lie Tricolour was the union of the 
white Bourbon and blue and red of the 
city of Paria. It was adopted by 
Louis XVI. at the Hétel de Ville, 
July 17, 1789, and has ever since been 
recognized as the national symbol, ex- 


| cept during the brief “ restoration,” when 


the Bourbon white was for the time 
restored, : 

Royal Cockades are lange and circular, 
half the disc projects above the top o 
the hat. . 

Naval Cockades have no fan-shaped 
appendage, and do not project above the 
top of the hat. 

(All other cockades worn for livery 
are fan-shaped.) 


ign’ ( Zhe Land of), an imagi- 
nary land of pleasure, wealth, luxury, 
and idleness. London is so called, 
Boileau applies the word to Paris, The 
Land of Cokayne is the subject of a bur- 
leanue, which, Warton gays, “‘ was evi- 
dently written soon after the Conquest, at 
least before the reign of Henry I," 
—History of English Puetry, i. 12. 

The howses were muule of barleyngar and coles, the 
Hrectia were paved with pastry, ate) the shops supplied 
peels without requiring money in payment.—The Load 
of Conhuigre (ani ald Firiich posm, thirteenth century). 

(This satirical poem is printed at 
length by Ellis, in his Specimens of Early 
Enjlizh Poets, i, 83-95.) 


Cocker (£dward) published a useful 
treatise on arithmetic in the reign of 
Charles I1,, which had a prodigious suc- 
cess, and has given rise to the proverb, 
** According to Cocker " (1632-1675), 

Cockle (Sir Join), the miller of 
Manstield, and keeper of Sherwood 
Forest. Hearing a gun fired one nigh 
he went into the forest, expecting to fin 


) ponciars; and seized the king (Henry 


I1].), who had been hunting and had pot 
separated from his courtiers. When the 
miller discovered that his captive was not 
a poacher, he offered him a night's lodging. 
Next day the courtiers were brought to 
Cockle's house by under-keepers, to be 
examined as poachers, and it was then 
discovered that the muiller’s guest wes 
the king. The “merry monarch” 
knighted the miller, and aettled on hom 
1000 marks a year.—RK, Dodaley, 7h 


. King and the Alilier of Mansfield (1787). 








COLE. 


was succeeded by Lucius, “the first 

British who embraced the Christian 
100." of these two mythical 

eee Sr en ee 


Cole Pg This character is 
al or Mother Douglas, who Seok’ 
yentlemen's ine of frail beauties" 
a ae tenet fernished house at the 
ct ow. corner of Covent Garden. She 
died 1761.—S. Foote, Z'se Minor (1760), 


Colein (2 , the great dragon 
slain by Ay peti of Southam pton.— 
Drayton, Polyolbion, ii, (1612). 


Golesirs (3 syl.), @ poetical name 


fora cook. The word is compounded of 
ped enol es 
gderea thy moruied well-wealved taoe, 
Thar twhat | (aogbore, 
Aud yield me lowe, or feces io more,” 
ee, 
pper (Captain) or Carrain 
noes ian bully.—-Sir 


als fo the 
W. Scott, Fortunes of Niyel 


. (time, 
James I.). 


Colin, or in Scotch Cailen, (freen | 


Colm, the laird of Dunstaffnage, so called 
from 
his tartan, 

Colin and Rosalinde. In The 
Shephearde's Calendar (1579), by Edm, 
Spenser, Rosalinde ts the maiden vainly 
beloved by Colin Clout, as her choice was 
already fixed on the shepherd Menalcas, 
Rosalinde is an anagram of 
Danil,” a lady beloved by Spenser (Cui 
Clout), but Rose anil bad already fixed 
her affections on John Florio the Keso- 
lute, whom she subsequently married. 


And I to thee will be as kind 
ds Colln wea to Romine, 


Colin Clout, the pastoral name as- 
sumed by the poet Spenser, in Lhe Shep- 
Aeurde's Calendar, Ruins of Time, 
Dap naida, and in the pastoral poem called 

in Clout’s Come Home Ayain (from hia 
Visit to sir Walter Raleigh). Excl. i. and 
xii. are soliloquies of Colin, being lamen- 
tations that Rosalinde will not return his 
love, Eel. vi. is adialogue between Hob- 
binol and Colin, in which the former tries 
te comfort the disappointed lover, Eel. 
xi. is a dialogue between Thenot and 
Colin. Thenot begs Colin to sing seme 
juyous lay ; - but Colin pleads grief tor 
the death of the shepherdess Dido, and 
then ings @ mouody on the great shep- 


the green colour which prevailed in | 


“ Rose | 





908 COLLINGBOURNE'S RHYME. 


as she shepherd Menalcas "bz 
last book of the Fairy 
a dave 4a reference to ‘* Colin’ Penge his 
as " (Spenser and his wife) supposed 
and elsewhere “oalled 
m Mirabella” (See CLouT, etc.) 
nag tof =e pred eae 


all salts 
mornad, bois writings vilified, 


0 Poe Visicbec oe a Br {oe 
Colin Clout and his Lassie, referred to 
in the last book of the Fulry Queen, are 
Spenser and his wife Elizabeth, elsewhere 


| called “ Mirabella” (1596), 


Colin Clout’s Come Home 


| “Colin Clout” is Spenser, who had been tu 


London on a visit to ‘the Shepherd of the 


| Ocean” (sir Walter Raleigh); + 1589; on 


bis return to Kilcolman, in reland, he 
wrote this I tse “« Hobbinol : his friend 
(Gabriel Harvey, LL.D.) tells him how 
all the shepherda had missed him, and 
begs him to relate to him and them his 
adventures while abroad. The pastoral 
contains a eulogy of British contemporary 

ota, and of the court beauties of queen 

zabeth (1591), (See Coirn,) 


faite TaMpS n, the nickname of o 
Swiss, as John Bull means an English- 
man, etc, 


Colkitto (Young), or Vich Alister 
More,” or “‘ Alister M‘Donnell," « High- 
reg tape in a army - Montrose.— 

ir W. Scott, Leyend o ontrose (tim 
Charilea !.). v A 


Collean (May), the heroine of a 
Scotch ballad, which relates how “ fause 
sir John” carried her to a rock for the 
purpose of throwing her down into the 
eea; but May outwitted him, and sub- 
jected him to the same fate as he had 
designed for her. 


Colleen’, iz. “ girl;" Colleen bawn 
(“the blond girl”); Colleen rhue (** the 
red-haired “ir "i ete, 


*,.” Dion Loucicault has o drama en- 
titled The Colleen Bawn, founded upon 
Gerald Griffin's novel The Collegiuns. 

Collier (Jem), a smuggler.—Sir W. 
Scott, Hedjauntiet (time, Georze L1I.). 

Collingbourne’s Rhyme. The 
rhyme for which Collingbourne was 
executed was: 


A cat, a raf, and Lovel the dag. 
Rule all Biiglasd under tha hog. 





COLOPHON. 


shipwreck" canto iii.); and Byron 
tales of Greece, 
Colonna’s height, 
vas glad the benrt that hails the sight, 
Byron, The Glacur (1513). 
Uol'ophon, the end clause of a book 
containing the names of the printer and 
publisher, and the place where the book 
was printed in former times the date 
and edition were added also. Colo- 
phon was a city of Iona, the inhabitants 





4 


rELECHSEEY 
Lee al 
Eee 


fh 


Col’thred (Benjamin) or ‘Little 


Benjie,” a spy employed by Nixon 
Edward Redervantlots 4 t).—Sir W. 
Redyauntilet (time, rge III.). 


Columb (S&.) or St. Columba was 
of the family of the kings of Uister; 
and with twelve followers founded 


tian establishments of presbyterian cha- 
racer i that in lo’na was founded in 


The Pictish ssen by St. Columb taught. 
Campbell, 


Columbus. His three ships were 
the Sunta Maria, the Pinta, and the 
Nina.—W ashi Irving, 
the Life, etc., of Columbus, 183. 

Colyn Clout ( The Boke of), rhym- 
mg six-syllable tirade against the clerey, 
hea Skelton, poet-laureate (1 
1529). 


Comal and Galbi’na. Comal was 
the son of Albion, ‘“‘ chief of a hundred 
hills.” He loved Galbi'na (daughter of 
Conlech), who was beloved by Grumal 
also. One day, tired out by the chase, 
Comal and Galbina rested in the cave of 





During his abeence, Galbina dressed her- 
self in armour “to try his love,” and 
‘‘ strode from the cave.” Comal thought 
it was Grumal, let fly an arrow, and she 
fell. The chief too late discovered his 
mistake, :ashed to battle, and was slain. 
—Ossian, Fingal, ii. 


Com ala, daughter of Sarno of 
Inistore (the Orkneys). She fell in love 
with Fingal at a feast to which Sarne 
had invited him after his return from 
Denmark or Lochlin (Fingal, iii.). 
Disguised as a youth, Comala followed 
him, and begged to be employed in his 
wars; but was detected by Hi son 
of Lamor, whose love she had slighted. 
be eae called beers Caneeal he bed 

e was to oppose who 
invaded Caledoniay Comala witnessed the 
battle from a hill, thought she saw Fingal 
slain, and thongh he returned victoriows, 
the shock on her nerves was so great 
she died.— Ossian, Comala. 


Comanches (3 sy/.), an Indian tribe 
of the Texas. (See CaMANCHES.) 


Comb ( 3s Wonderful), said to 
be made of Pan’thera's bone, the per- 
fume of which was so fragrant that no 
one could resist following it; and the 
wearer of the comb was always of a 
merry heart. This comb existed only in 
the brain of Master Fox.—Re the 
Foz, xii. (1498). 


Co’me (St.), a physician, and patren 
saint of medical practitioners. 

** By St. Come!” anid the surgeon, “here's a prety 
adventure.”—Leange, Gil Bias, vis. 1 (1738). 

Come and Take Them. The re- 
ply of Leon’idas, king of Sparta, to the 
messengers of Xerxés, when commanded 
by the invader to deliver up his arms. 


Comedy (The Father of), Aristoph’e 
anés the Athenian (B.c. 444-880). 

Comedy (Prince of Ancient}, Aristoph’- 
anés (B.C. 444-380). 


Comedy (Prince of New), Menandes 
(B.c. 842-291). 


Comedy of Errors, by Shakes 
(1593). milia wife of geen had two 
sons ata birth, and named both of them 
Antipholus. en wn to 

each of these sons had a slave named 
Dromio, also twin-brothers. The brothers 
Antipholus had been shipwrecked ip 


| | 
COMEDY OF ERRORS. 
| 
Ronan ; hut ere 1 a deer appeared, 
and Comal went forth to sheot it 








CONA. 


‘a “masque” so called, the “lady” 

is ‘ady Alice Egerton, the younger 
brother is Mr. Thomas Egerton, and the 
elder brother is lord viscount Brackley 





te 


long _ is left in a wood by 

her two SNhes while they A to gather 
“eooling fruit" for her. e sings to 
adh them know her whereabouts, and 
us, coming up mises to conduct 

ber to's to” a ee i her brothers could 
The brothers, hearing a noe 
, gop alarmed about their 
a Pe spirit informs 


bri‘na, who breaks the the spell 


and releases the lady (1634). 


Co'’na or Coz, a river in Scotland, 
ling into Lochleven, It is distin- 
ed for the sublimity of ite scenery. 
-coe is the glen held by the M‘Do- 
malds (the chief of the clan being called 
Maclan). In “Ossian,” the Ossian 
son of ane is called “‘ The voice of 
oa.”"—Ossian, Songs of Selrma. 
Toe rsd tbe voice of Cons, first among a thoumauma 
' Omian, Songer af Sadrma, 


hland ap preatce 


ali 


Conach’ar, the Hi 
of Sinnon Glover, the old lover 
is in love with his rdetar 
daughter, Catharine, called ‘‘the fair 
maid of Perth ;" but Catharine loves and 
ultimately marries Henry Smith, the 
armourer. Conachar is at a later period 
lan Eachin [ Hector] M‘lan, chief of the 
elan Quhele,—Sir W. Scott, Fair Maid of 
Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


of Trenmor, and first 
“king of of ‘Ireland, " When the Fir-bolg 
(or from Britain settled in the 
south of Ireland) had reduced the Cael 
{or salen of Caledonians settled in the 


morth of Ireland) to the last extremity | 
by war, the Cae] sent to Scotland for | 


aid. Trathe! (grandfather of Fingal) 
accordingly sent over Conar with an 
army to their aid; and Conar, having 
reduced the Fir-bolg to submission, as- 
eumed the tithe of “king of Ireland." 

Conar was succeeded by his son Cormac 
1. Cormac |. by bis son Cairbre; Cair- 
bre by his son Artho; Artho by his son 
Cormac 11, (a minor); and Cormac (after 


into the hands » 


on the conn, while the spirit | 


| pathy of his neighbours and 





CONLATH. 


ht interregaum Ferad-Arthe 
traieed by Foal) -Onlian 


Con-Cathlin (means “ mild beam of 
the wave"), the . 


While yet my losks were young, I mashed 
im dale, irom scoau's palghty weee.—Oalan, 





(1898), at 


fessor, a priest of Venos named Genius, 
As every vice is wunamiable, Materghaboc iro 
be free from vice in order 
iL¢. belowed ; 

amines the lover on every vice he 
willgrant him absolution. Tale after tale 
he at effec tye ion 

e ev ects Vices, 
the lover is ba 
Aristotelian phil caophy,” th 
equip him to win ters 

e end is ;: 
not complain the 
nny but that he 
old. 

Gower is indebted a good to 
Eusebius's Greek romance of Jeméné and 
Ismenias, translated by Viterbo. 
speare drow his Pericles Prince of Zye 
from the same romance. 


Confession. Theemperor Wencesias 


ordered John of Nep’omuc to be oe from 


the Moldau bridge, for — 
the confession of the em 
was canonized as St. John hn Ne mu'cen, 
and his day is May 14 (1880-1888). 
Confusion worse Confounded. 
With roin Laon ruin, rout on rout, 
Mutton, Paradise Lest, i. 996 (6053. 
Modern), R. B, 
Tha mr sel ee ee 


a Tee? Tareas ne 
Bercin tet aclea 6. 


Conkey Ghiakwesd: the man who 
robbed himself of 827 guineas, in erder to 
make his fortune by exci the — 


if 


Congreve 
Shendan phan Sg 


tale is told by detective 
Dickens, Oswer Twist (1837). 


Con'lath, youngest son of HT a and 
brother of famous Gaul (a man’s 
name). Conlath was betrothed to Ca- 


tho’na, daughter of Ruma, but before the 

espousals Toscar came from Ireland te 

34 Nr * and ive; hos Gathonn” received by 
orn. 


ona out h 
Toscar es a off in his skiff M 
force, and being overtaken by 











CONTINENCE, 





Vortigern ad an self succeeded by 
was him 

his rer brother, Uther Pendragon, 

father king ur. Hence it w 


appear that Constans was Arthur's uncle. 
Constant (Ned), the former lover of 
lady Brute, with whom he intri after 


ight.— 
Vanbragh, Provoked Wife ced). 


Constant (Sir Bashful), a younger 
brother of middie life, who tumbles into 
an estate and title by the death of his 
se ii ans Yan 

i it comme i 
Eis love be Luows, treats er with 


Lady Constant, wife of sir Bashful, a 
woman of spirit, taste, sense, wit, and 
beauty. She loves her husband, and 
repels with scorn an attempt to shake 
her fidelity because he treats her with cold 
indifference.—A. Morphy, The Way to 
beep Him (1760). 


Constan'tia, sister of Petruccio go 
vernor of Bologna, and mistress of the 
uke of Ferrara.— Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Chances (1620). 


Constantia, a protégée of lady McSy- 
cophant, ra amiable girl, in ove with 
Egerton McSyco t, by whom her 
love is ampl Teturned.—C: in, Zhe 
Man of the World (1764). 


& 


Our English Athelstan.. . 
And Constantine, the king, a food hither Hiro 

Constantinople (Little). Kertch 
was so called by the Genoese from ite 
extent and ite prosperitv. Demosthenés 
calls it ‘‘ the granary of Athens.” 

Consuelo (4 sy/.), -he impersonation 
ef moral purity in the midst of temp- 
tations. Consuelo is the heroine of a 
novel so called by George Sand (i.¢. Mde. 
Dudevant) 


Consul Bib’ulus (A), a cipher iz 
office, one joined with others in but 
without the slightest influence. Bibulus 
was joint consul with Julius Cesar, but #0 
insignificant that the wits of Rome called 
it the consulship of Julius and Cesar, not 
of Bibulus and (B.C. 59). 


Contem: Discoverers. 
Goethe and Vieg d'Azyrs discovered at 
the same time the intermaxil bone. 
Goethe and Von Baer discov 
same time. Morphology. Goethe 
Oken discovered at the same time the 


vertebral system. The Penny Cyolo- 
padia and 3 Journal were started 
nearly at the same time. The invention 


of printing is claimed by several contem- 
poraries. The processes called Tal 

and were nearly sim 
taneous discoveries. Leverrier and Adams 
discovered at the same time the planet 


Neptune. 
«* This list may be extended to a 
very great length. 


Contest (Sr Adam). Having lost 
his first wife by shipwreck, he married 
again after the lapee of some twelve or 
fourteen years. His second wife was a 
girl of 18, to whom he held up his first 
wife as a pattern and the very 
vf women. On the wedding day this frst 
wife made hcrappearance. She had been 
saved from the wreck; but sir Adam 
wished her in heaven most sincerely. 

Lady Contest, the bride of sir Adam, 
‘young, extremely lively, and pro- 
digiously beautiful.” She had been 
brought up in the country, and treated as 
@ child, eo her naiveté was quite capti- 
vating. When she quitted the bride- 
groom's house, she said, ‘* Good-bye, sir 
Adam, good-bye. I did love you a little, 
upon my word, and should be really un- 
happy if I did not know that your hap- 
pines will be infinitely greater with your 

rat wife.” 

Mr, Contest, the grown-up son of sir 
Adan, by his first wife.—Mrs. Inchbald, 
The Wedding Day (1790). 


Continence. 

ALEXANDER THE Great having 
gained the battle of Issus (n.c. 888), 
the family of king Dartus fell into his 
hands; but he treated the ladies as 
queens, and observed the greatest deco- 
rum towards them. A eunuch, having 
escaped, told Darius that his wife re- 
mained anspotted, for Alexander had 


j shown himself the most contivent and 














COPPERHEADS. 211 CORDELIA. 
‘hard, tyrannical man, who made the Mls long chin proved bis wit : bis aint-lhe gman, 
home of David a dread and terror to A Cuurth ve and a Moses’ faces 
the boy. | When his mother died, Murd- Coald plots, enomading suam's ballet. repent, 


and ran away to Dover, where he 

was Lindly received by his rreat]-aunt 

Retsey Trotwood, who him, and 
9 


Coppernoee (8 sy/.). Henry VII. 
was 60 called, because he mixed so much 
copper with the silver coin that it showed 
after a little wear in the parte most 
nounced, as the nose. Hence the sobri- 

pernosed Harry,” ‘Old 


ucts‘ P 
ppernose.” etc. 
Copple, the hen killed Reynard, 

(1438) st pic called Reynord Fox 

1 e 


Cora, the tle, loving wife of 
Alonzo, and the kind friend of Rolla 
general of the Peruvian army.—Sheridan, 

% (altered from Kotzebue, 1799). 

Co’rah, in Dryden's satire of Absa- 
tom and Te hitophel ia meant for Dr. Titus 
Oates. As Corah was the political calum- 
miator of Moses and Aaron, so Titus 
Oates was the political calumniator of the 
pope aud English papiste. As Corah was 
punished by “going down alive into the 
pit,” so Oates was ‘‘condemned to im- 
[ risonment for life,” after being publicly 
whip ard exposed in the pillory. 
North descnbdes Titus Oates as a very short 
man, and says, “if his mouth were taken 
for the centre of a circle, his chin, fore- 
bead, and cheekbones would fall in the 
eircumference.” 

@unk were his esos, bis voice wae harsh and lead. 

@ure cigus he neither eholeric was, nor proud ; 


you should have seen Shuter. 
The public are pleasod to think that I act 
» but his acting was as far 
superior to mine as mount 
a bd t.” 
Cor’bant, the rook, in the 


beast-epie 
f nard the Fox (1498). (French, 
carbon, “a rook.”) (1498). ( 


Corbrech’tan or Corybrechtan, 
a whirlpool on the west coast of Scotland, 
near the isle of Jura. Its name signifies 
‘¢ Whirlpool of the prince of Denmark,” 
from the tradition that a Danish prince 
once wagered to cast anchor in it, bet 
perished in his foolhardiness. In calm 
weather the sound of the vortex is like 
that of innumerable chariots driven with 
speed. 

The distant isles that hear the loud Corbrechtan ruas. 

Campbell, Gertrude af Wyoming, |. 5 (1908). 

Corce’ca (3 syl.), mother of Abessa. 
The word means “ blindness of heart,” or 
Romanism. Una sought shelter under 
her h but Corceca shut the door 
against her; whereupon the lion which 
accompanied Una broke down the door, 
The “lion” means England, ‘‘ Corceca” 
popery, “Una” stantism, and 
‘ breaking down the door” the Reformae 
tion.—Spenser, Faéry Queen, i. 8 (1580). 

Cordelia, youngest danghter of 
Lear. She was disinberited by ber royal 
father, because her protestations of love 
were less violent than those of her sisters. 
Cordelia married the king of France, anJ 





CORINTHIAN TOM. 


conflagration was #0 great that it melted 
the metal, which ran down the streets in 
streams. The three mentioned above ran 


er, and obtained the name of 
Bertechion brass.” 


3 think Ie may be of “Corinthian brass,” 
Which was s mixture of all metals, but 
appermost. 


The brasen 
Byron, Don Juan, vi, 58 (1821). 


Corinthian Tom, ‘a fast man,” 
the sporting rake in Pierce Egan's Life in 


Coriola’nus (Caius Marcius), called 
Coriolanus from his victory at Cori’oli. 
His mother was Vetu’ria (not ronmna 
and his wife Volumnia (not Virgilia 
Shakes has a drama eo called. 
H also adrama entitled Cortolan, 
produced in 1781.—Livy, Anna/s, ii. 40. 
wher A sehr ing or ete 





Corita‘ni, the people of Lincolnshire, 
Nottinghamahire, Derbyshire, Leicester- 
shire, Rutlandshire, and Northampton- 
shire. Drayton refers to them in his 
Polyolbion, xvi. (1613). 
Cork Street (London). 

from the Boyles, earls of Burli 
Cork. (See Ciirrorp STREET. 


Cormac L., son of Conar, a Cael, who 


So called 
mn and 


succeeded his father as ‘‘ king of Ireland,” 
and reigned many years. In the latter 
part of his reign the Fir-bolg (or Belgex 


settled in the south of Ireland), who had 
been subjugated by Conar, rebelled, and 
Cormac was reduced to such extremities 
that he sent to Fingal for aid. Fingal 
went with a large army, utterly defeated 
Coleulla ‘lord of Atha,” and re-estab- 
lished Cormac in the sole possession of 
Ireland. For this service Cormac gave 
Fingal his daughter Roscra’na for wife, 
aud Ossian was their first son. Cormac I. 
was succeeded by his son Cairbre; Cair- 
bre by his son Artho; Artho by his son 
Cormac I]. (a minor); and Cormac II. 
after a short interregnum) by Ferad- 
Artho.—Ossian. 
Cormac IT. (a minor), king of Ire- 
land. On his succeeding his father Artho 
on the throne, Swaran king of Lochlin 
Scandinavia] invaded Ireland, and de- 
the army under the command of 
Cuthullin. Fingal's arrival turned the 
tide of events, fur next day Swaran was 


213 


La 
when 
flashed Oss 








CORMORAN. 
touted and returned to Lochlin. 





Yo the 
third year of his reign Torlath rebelled, 
but was utterly discomfited at lake 

by Cuthullin, who, however, was him 
mortally wounded by a random arrow 
during the pursuit. ot long after this 
Cairbar rose in insurrection, murdered 
the young king, and usurped the govern- 
ment. His success, however, was only of 
short duration, for having invited Oscar 
to a feast, he treacherously slew him, and 
was himself slain at the same time. His 
brother Cathmor succeeded for a few 
days, when he also was slain in battle b 
Fingal, and the Conar d resto 
Conar (first king of Ireland, a Cale- 
donian) was succeeded by his son 
Cormac I.; Cormac I. was succeeded by 
his son Cairbre ; Cairbre by his son 
Artho; Artho by his son Cormac II.; 
and Cormac II. (after a short inter- 
regnuin) by his cousin Ferad-Artho.— 
ian, Fingal, Dar-Thula, and Temora. 


Cor’mack (Donald), a Highland 
robber-chief.—Sir W. Scott, Fair Muid 
of Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Cor’malo, a ‘chief of ten thousand 
spears,” who lived near the waters of 
Lano (a Scandinavian lake). He went to 
Inis-Thona (an island of Scandinavia), to 
the court of king Annir, and ‘“‘ sought the 
honour of the spear” (i.e. a tournament). 
Argon, the elder son of Annir, tilted with 
him and overthrew him. This vexed 
Cormalo greatly, and during a hunting 
expedition he drew his bow in secret 
and shot both Argon and his brother 
Ruro. Their father wondered they did 
not return, when their dog Runa came 
bounding into the hall, howling so as to 
attract attention. Annir followed the 
hound, and found his sons both dead. 
Inthe mean time his daughter was carried 
off by Cormalo. When Oscar, sen of 
Ossian, heard thereof, he vowed vengean 
went with an army to Lano, encoiste 
Cormalo, and slew him. Then rescuing 
the daughter, he took her back to Inis- 
Thona, and delivered her to her father.— 
Ossian, Zhe War of Inis- Thona,. 


Cor’moran! (The Giant), a Cornish 
Jack the Giant-killer. 
is was his first exploit, accomplished 
when he was a mere boy. Jack dug a 
deep pit, and so artfully filmed it over 
atop, that the giant fell into it, where- 
upop Jack knocked him on the head and 
killed him. 

The Persian trick of “Ameen and the Ghoel” resus 


iant slain b 








ety pet ae 1815, 
during the attack of the British on New 
Orleans.) 


Cor’ magistrate at the ex- 
eon Dik Hatteraick at Kipple- 
—Sir W. Scott, Guy Mannering 

pn George II. ). 
Corsican General (The), Napoleon 
L., who was born in Corsica (1769-1921). 
Cor’sina, wife of the corsair who 
found Fairstar and Chery in the boat as 
it drifted on the sea. ing made very 
rich by her foster-children, Corsina 
brought them np as princes.—Comtesse 
D'Aunoy, Fairy Tales (‘The Princess 

Fairstar,” 1682). 


Oo, a cavalier servente, who as | 


Byron says in Beppo; 

Coach, servants, gondola, mast go to call, 

And carries fan and tippet, gloves and shawl 

Was It for this that no cortejo ere 

I yet Lave chon frum the pouth of Berle? 

Byron, Dow Juan, L 148 (119), 
Corti'na (a cauldron), It stood on 

three feet. The tripod of the Pythonesa 
was 80 called, because she sat in a kind 
of basin standing on three feet. When 
not in use, it was covered with a lid, and 
the basin then looked like a large metal 


Cor’via or Corvi'na, a valuable 
stone, which will canse the or to 
be both rich and honoured, It is obtained 
thus: Take the 
and boil them | , then replace them in 
the nest, and the mother wil go in search 
of the stone, in ore: to revivify her 
eges.— Mirror of Stones 

Corvi'no (Sgnior), a Venetian mer- 
ehant, du by Mosca into believing 
that he is Vol’pone’s heir.—Ben Jonson, 
Volpone or the Fox (1605). 


Coryate’s Crudities, a book of 
travels went Net Thomas Coryate, who mee 
e “ Odcombian ' 
te tun iheabinat the rector of Odcombe 

(1577-1617). 





| Sir 


8 from « crow's nest, | 








Coryc’ian Cave (The), on mount 
Parnassus, so called from the nymph 
Coryc’ia. Sometimes the Muses are called 


Coryc'ides (4 syl.). 


Alenside, ymin to che Waleds, 
Corycian hs (The), ene 
Muses, celia front cave of | 
on Liycortin, dun of the tare chief? maxnal 
of mount Parnassus, in Greece, 


Gor 7eon, 
sheph It occurs in the ayes 
Theocritos; the of Hegnes, ied rgil ; 
The cones v., of 


a common name for & 


mays tyes the aber ae tan ed. 
for at torella (canto Sir 
Calidore, the Risen Rog treated him 


most courteously, and when he married 
the fair shepherdess, gave Corydon both 
flocks and la to miti his dis- 
appointment (canto 11).—Spenser, Faéry 
Gucen, vi. (1596). 

Cor’ the shoemaker, a citizen.— 
. Seott, Count obert of Paris 
(time, Rufus). 


arty heus of German Litera- 
“), Goethe. 

‘he pate pees cle Su: Tay shapely Laer 

April 27, 1478. , 


Coryphe'us (4 sy/.), a model man or. 


leader, from the Koruphaios or leader of 
the chorus in the Greek drama. Aris- 
tarchos is called The Corypheus of Gram- 
marins, ; 

Phd real vpn bayer and reflected with plawore 

that | should jp or the I oe ag hl all domestics, — 
Lesage, iil Bins, ahs t (l7a4p 

Cosme (5t.), patron of surgeons, 
born in Arabia, He practised medicine 
in Cilicia with his brother St. Damien, 
and both suffered martyrdom under Dio- 
cletian in 403 or 310. Their féte day is 
December 27. In the twelfth century 
there was a medical society called Sainé 
Coxme. 

Cos'miel (3 syi.), the ms of the 
world. He gave to Theodi sa boat 
of asbestos, in which he sailed to the sun 
and planets.—Kircher, Lcstatic Journey 


to Hearen. 


Cosmos, the personification of “the 
world” oa pS eneniy man. Phineas 
Fletcher calls him ‘the first son to the 

ragon red” (the devil), ‘ Mistake,” 
he saya, ‘point all his darta;" or, as tas 


ee 





COUNTIES. 





Coun “The clownish blazon of 
each county” (from Dra ‘s Polyoltion, 
=xiii., towards the close), 

BeDPornenink: Malthorees, 
PESEsi WE eo tat, anal fom the bell 
Beewice (ta the Qume) : Bnaifle, apur, aod epemr. 
BOMAMBHIBE : 

Bread and beef, 

Where if you beat the bash, ‘the odds poo start o thief 
CAVE DOWIE: Hold nef, aod let os win. 
CHESAINE: Gat ten. 


Comrwall: | wey wrestle for o fall 
bpm arty 


‘cool ed bend 
Taos ETS MIRE : La pol 
: Calves amd atl 
GLOCCESTERASIRE : Weigh thy weed. 
Haste: Hampshire 
Hex EPORDSHIEE: cant te 
eure: 


thd nek sulle ice again a stalk through (hick 


DLESET 
Up te Landon let os gpa, 
ont ee ee let's here @ pot or feo. 


, but Little eles abore. 


sharp: 

Lay wood wpon the fire, reach hither me the 

Ad whilet the black bowl walks, we merrily 
BOM ERA ETEUURE: Set thee bandog on the boll 
BT ATPOR DSH LEE : 

A woth «wil ich poaech! Ae mg ion 

| my 
Bran 1 Thine lot 'tee Soot haemo lags 
Wak eckentan: TU hod the sturdy bear. 
WiLTshi@e;: (Get homer anal ay for all 
Wukcesteesuine: Avid | mjuirt the poar. 
Pe Yorkshire and Gunga 


neg J (Father of his). Cicero was 
rig y the Roman senate (n.c. 
106-43), Julius Cesar was £0 called 
after nee the insurrection in Spain 
(z.c. 100-43). Augustus Cwsar was 
called Pater atque Princeps (n.c. 63, 81- 
14). Cosmo de Med'ici (1089-1464). G. 
Washington, defender and coun- 
sellor of the American States (1732-1799). 
Andrea Dorta is so called on the base 
of his statue in Gen'on (1468-1560), 
Andronicus Paleol’ogus I]. assumed the 
title (1260-1832). See 1 Chiron. iv. 14. 


Sosatey Girl (The), a comedy by 


on 


VORESHIFE: 


Garrick, altered from Wycherly. 
—_ comntey 6 girl” is Peggy Thrift, the 
orphan ghter of sir Thomas Thrift, 


and ward of Moody, who brings her op 
in the country in perfect seclusion. en 
Moody ia 0 and is 19, he wants 
to marry her, but she outwits him and 


10 





217 


| with 


COUVADE. 


marries Belville, a young man of suitable 
age and position, 

Coun Wife { The), a comedy by 
William wn echedy ly (1678). J 

Pop? eas proud ig receives noties from the acther of 
es crenare Wve— Chasubers, Hegiled Lideripers, 

Cou ee, the dancing-master, who 
eays “if it were not for dancing-masters, 
men might as well walk on their heads as 
heels." He courts Lucy By promising to 


teach her .—Fiel , The Virgin 


Courland Weather, wintry weather 
nitiless snow-storms, called 
from the Russian province of that name. 
Cour’ Holy b hve “et polian 
meaningless compliments o litessdy 
greet in French on tonite er. 
Fivrio, ftation co ere os hae ial 
Cour’tain, one of the swords of 
Ogier the Dane, made by Munifican, 
His other sword was Sauvagine. 


But Oger cured cpon It [the anc) doubt fully 
One mament, and then, sheathing Courtaln, & 
“What taley aro these t 
Ww. Morris. 7: The Larthly Paradies |" Acgust “), 
urtall, a fop and consummate 
libertine, for ever boasting of his love- 
conjuests over ladies of the Aaut monde, 
He tries to corrupt lady Frances Tonch- 
wood, but is foiled by Saville-—Mra, 
Cowley , Tie Belle's Stratagem (1780). 


Courtly (Sir Charles), a young liber- 
tine, who abducted the beautiful wife of 
Farnier Cornilower,—Dibdin, The Far- 
mer's Wife (1730). 

Cousin Michel or Micnaet, the 
nickname of a German, as John Bull is 
of an Englishman, Brother Jonathan of 
an American, Colin Tampon a Swias, 
John Chinaman a Chinese, etc. 


Couvade’ (2 sy/.), a man who takes 
the place of his wife when she is in 
child-bed. In these cases the man lies 
a-bed, and the woman does the household 
duties. The people called “ Gold Tooth,” 
in the confines of Burmah, are cow 
M. Francisque Michel tells us the custom 
still exists in Biscay ; and colonel Yule 
assures us that it is common in Yunnan 
and among the Miris in Upper Assam. 
Me. Tylor has observed the same custom 
among the Caribs of the West Indies, 
the Abipones of Central South America, 
the aborizines of California, in Guiana, 
in West Afnca, and in the — 
Archipelago. Diodérugs speaks of it 











CRANBOURNE. 219 CRAWLEY. 
Sr Je a friend | character, makes him his care. 
Sea My C. Dickens, A Chrtstmas Earet (fa five 


ef ar Geoffrey Peveril. ° 
Peserii of the Peak (time, Charles I1.). 


Crane (Dame Alison), mistress of the 
Crane inn, at Mari 

Gaffer Crane, the dame's husband.— 
beth). Scott, Keniiworth (time, Riiza- 


Crane (Ichabod), a credulous Yankee 
schoolmaster. 


Cranion, queen Mab’s charioteer. 
Four nimble gnats the horses were, 
harnesses of gomamere, 
Fly Cranion, her charioteer. 
M. Drayton, Symphidia (1563-1631). 
Crank (Dame), the papist laundress 
at Marlborough.—Sir W. Scott, Kenil- 
worth (time, Llizabeth). 


Cra’paud (Johnnie), a Frenchman, as 
John Bull is an Englishman, Cousin 
Michael a German, Silin Tampon a 
Swiss, Brother Jonathan a North Ameri- 
can, etc. Called Crapaud from the device 
of the ancient kings of France, ‘three 
toads erect, saltant.” Nostraddmus, in 
the sixteenth century, called the French 
crapauds in the well-known line : 

Les enciens erapauds prendront Sera. 


(“‘Sara” is Aras backwards, a city 
taken from the Spaniards under Louis 


Cratchit (Bob or Robert), clerk of 
Ebenezer Scrooge, stock-broker. Though 
Bob Cratchit has to maintain nine persons 
on 15s. a week, he has a happier home 
and spends a merrier Christmas than his 
master, with all his wealth and selfish- 
n 


ens. 

Tiny Tim Cratchit, the little lame son 
of Bob Cratchit, the Benjamin of the 
family, the most helpless and most 
oeloved of all. Tim doee not die, but 
Ebenezer after his change 


Scrooge, of 


staves, 1848). 
the | 


Craw’ford (Lindsay eari 
oung Marl omarahal of Sand bts W. 


Scott, Fair Maid of Perth (time, Heary 


sagorow'ford (Lord), captain of the Soot~ 


lessis lés Tours, in the 
of Louis XI.—Sir W. Scott, Qucetin 
Durward (ume, Edward IV.). 


Crawley (Sir Pitt), of Great Gaunt 
Street, and of Queen’s Crawley, Hants. 
A sharp, miserly, litigious, vulgar, i 
norant baronet, very rich) y 

i with a taste for 


second wife, sir Pitt asxed her to become 
lady Crawley, but Becky had already mar- 
ried his son, captain Rawdon Crawley. 
This ‘‘aristocrat” spoke of ‘brass far- 
dens,” and was unable to spell the simplest 
words, as the following specimen will 
show :—‘‘Sir Pitt Crawley begs Miss Sharp 
and bageidge may be hear on Tuseday, 
as 1 leaf... to-morrow erly.” ‘The 
whole barone 
age of Englan 
cunning, mean, foolish, disreputable old 
rogue than sir Pitt Crawley.” He died 
at the age of fourscore, ‘lamented and 
beloved, and honoured,” if we 
can believe his monumental tablet. 

Lady Crawiey. Sir Pitt's first wife was 
**a confounded, quarrelsome, high-bred 
jade.” So he chose for his second wife 
the daughter of Mr. Dawson, ironmonger, 
of Mudbury, who gave up her sweet- 
heart, Peter Butt, for the gilded vanity 
of Crawleyism. This ironmonger’s daugb- 
ter had ‘‘ pink cheeks and a white ‘skin, 
but no distinctive character, no opinions, 
Do occupation, no amusements, no vigour 
of mind, no temper; she was as mere 
female machine.” Being a “ blonde, she 
wore dragyled sea-green or slatternly 
sky-blue dresses,” went about slip-shod 
and in curl-papers all day till dinner- 
time. She died and left sir Pitt for the 
second time a widower, ‘‘ to-morrow toe 
fresh woods and pastures new.” 

Hr. Pitt Crawley, eldest son of sir Pi 
and at the death of his father inheritor 
the title and estates. Mr. Pitt was a 
most proper gentleman. He would rather 
starve than dine without a dress-coat and 
white neckcloth. The whol« aouse buwed 








CRETE. 


231 CROAKER. 





B 
¥ 
. 
a 
a 


e 
Hy 
BE 
4 
eis 
seg 
i 
£2 


sis 
E 
£ 


ined 


f 


Hound of), 2 blood-hound.— 
idsummer Night's Dream, act iii. 


serge, that’s the word; I thee defy again, 
Henry VY. act i. oc. 1 (1888). 
Orete (The Infamy of), the Minotaur. 
he Mnfrs of Crete, detested brood 
OF the feigned heifer. 
Daaté, Hell, xii. (1900, Casy's translation). 
Crévecour (2 syi.). The count 
Palip de Crévecour is the envoy sent by 
“the Bold,” duke of Burgundy, 
with a defiance to Louis XI. king of 
France. 


Crévecour, wife of the 
eount.—Sir W. tt, Quentin Durward 
(time, Edward IV.). 


Crib (Zom), Thomas Moore, author 
ef Tom Crib’s Memorial to Conyrese 


(1819). 


Crillon. The following story is told 
of this brave but simple-minded officer. 
Henri IV., after the battle of Arques, 
wrote to him thus: 

Prends-tol, brave Crillen, nous avons vaincn A Arques, 
ot ta n'y étais pas. 

The first and last part of this letter have 
become proverbial in France. 

When Crillon heard the story of the 
Crucifixion read at church, he grew so 
excited that he cried out in an audible 
voice, (x Ctais tu, Crillon? (‘* What 
were you about, Crilion, to permit of 
such atrocity ra 

*,* When Clovis was told of the 
Crucifixion, he exclaimed, ‘‘ Had I and 
my Franks been by, we would have 
avenged the wrong, I warrant.” 


Crime—Blunder. Talleyrand said 
of the execution of the duc d'Enghien by 
Napoleon I., that it was ‘‘not merely 
a crime, it was a blunder.” The words 
have been attributed to Fouché also. 


Cri:no’ra and Connal. Crimora, 
daughter of Rinval, was in love with 
Connal of the race of Fingal, who was 
detied by Dargo. He beys his ‘‘ sweet- 
ing" to lend him her father's shield, but 
she says it is ill-fated, for her father fell 
by the spear of Gormar. C went 





against his foe, and Crimora, disguised im 
armour, went also, but unknown to him. 
She saw her lover in fight with 

and di an arrow at the foe, but it 
missed its aim and shot Connal. She ran 
in agony to his succour. It was too late. 
He died, Crimora died also, and both 
were buried in one grave.—Ossian, 
Carric- Thura. 


Tartary, 
Crime’a. 
Crispin (&.). Crisptnocs and Cris- 
planus were two brothers, born at Rome, 
m which place they travelll te 
Soissons, in France (about A.p. 8f 8), to 
propagate the gospel, and worked as 
ers, that they might not be char, wable 
to any one. The governor of the tuwn 
ordered them to be beheaded the very 
year of their arrival, and they were made 
the tutelary saints of the ‘gentle craft.” 
St. Crispin’s Day is October 25. 
This day ts called the feast of Crispian .. . 
Crisp by. 


now called the 


Shakespeare, Henry V. act tv, ec. 3 (1200). 

Critic (A Bossu), one who criticizes 
the ‘‘ getting up” of a book more than its 
literary worth; a captious, carping critic, 
Réne le Bossu was a French critic (1631- 
16380). 

Th 
le Es Rag tlt trin Pat id 
trying them at bome upon an exact scale of Bossu’s, ‘tis 
out, my lord, In every one of ite dimensions. Admirable 
connoiweur |—Sterne, 


(Probably the scale referred to was that 
of Bossut the mathematician, and that 
either Bossu and Bossut have been con- 
founded, or else that a pun is intended.) 

Critic (The), by R. B. Sheridan, sug- 
gested bY The Rehearsal (1779). 

*,* The Rehearsal is by the duke of 
Buckingham (1671). 


Critics (The Prince of), Aristarchos of 
Byzantium, who compiled, in the second 
century B.C., the rhapsodies of Homer. 


Croaker, guardian to Miss Richland. 
Never so happy as when he imagines 
himself a martyr. He loves a funeral 
better than a festival, and delights to 
think that the world is going to rack and 
ruin. IHlis favourite is ‘*‘ May te 
not.” 

a AES aa tea pe em re ee 

Mrs, Croaker, the very reverse of her 
grumbling, atrabilious husband, SLe is 





; CRONA. 

gersber was considered by Oliver Crom- 

well to be his red-letter day. On 8rd 

Dian ‘hed September, 1651 he on 
on ¢ won 

the battle of Worcester ; "and ‘on 8rd 


September, 1658, he died. It is 
however, true that he was born on 2 
September, as many affirm, for his birth- 
day was 25th April, 1599. 
Cromwell's Dead Body Insulted. Crom- 
well’s dead body was, by the sanction if 
not by the ex order of Charles II., 
taken from its 


Hi 


Similarly, the tomb of Am’asis ki 
was broken os 


o * 
ef o by Camby’ses ; 
Pe ed eaned 


was 
the of Charles, his only crime being 
was a huguenot. 
Crona (‘‘ murmuring”), asmall stream 
running into the Carron.—Ossian. 
Cro’nian Sea (7c), the Arctic Ocean. 
Pliny (in his Nat. Hist. iv. 16) says: “A 
Thulé unius diei navigatione mare con- 
eretam a nonnullis cronitm appellatur.” 


4s when two poler winds blowing adverse 
Upon the Cronian eca. 
Milton, Paradies Lost, x. 330 (1685). 


Crook-fingered Jack, one of Mac- 
heath’s of thieves. In eighteen 
months’ service he brought to the general 
stock four fine gold watches seven 
silver ones, sixteen snuff-boxes (five of 
which were gold), six dozen handkerchiefs, 
four silver-hilted swords, six shirts, 

iwigs, and a ‘‘ piece” of broadcloth. 
‘chum calls him ‘a mighty clean- 
handed fellow,” and adds: 


a eatidering these the fruits of his leimre 
beers, | don’t a Tvettiy follow. for 20 man alive 


i 











[.) 





CROSBIE. 


noteworthy. Crop tells his wife he 
that better times are coming, and 
the low “suit is over Uwe vi have Fosst 
pork for dinner every Sunday.” | 
plies, ‘‘ It shall be lamb.” ‘“ Bust 
I say it be pork.” *I hate pork, ri 
have lamb.” “ Pork, I tell you.” “I say 
lamb.” lam 1 will have 


money for his 
Knowing that y Worthington was 
the ter of a ‘‘ poor gentleman,” he 


offers her ‘‘a house in town, the run 
of his estate in the country, a chariot, 
two footmen, and £600 a year;” but the 
lieutenant’s daughter rejects with scorn 
such ‘‘aplendid infamy.” At the end. 
sir Charies is n.ade to see his own 
beseness, and offers the most ample 
apologies to all whom he has offended.— 
. Colman, The Poor Gentleman (1802). 


Croquemitaine [Croak.mit.tain], 
the bogie raised by fear: Somewhere near 
Saragossa was a terrible castle called 
Fear Fortress, which ap quite im- 
pregnable ; but as the bold approached 
it, the difficulties of access graduall 
gave way and even the fortress ital? 
vanished into thin air. 

itaine is a romance in three 
: the first part is a tournament 

tween the knights of Marsillus, a 
Moorish king, and the paladins of Char- 
lemagne ; the second part is the siege of 
Saragossa by Charlemagne 3 and the 
third part is e allegory Fear Fortress. 
Mitaine is the godchild of Charlemagne, 
who goes in search of Fear Fortress. 

uis (Al » Daniel Maclise, 
R.A. is pseudonym was attached to 
a series of sharacter-portraits in Frazer’s 
Mayazine between the years 1830 and 
1838. Maclise was born 1811, and died 
1870. 


Cros’bie ( Wiliam), provost of Dem: 





CROTONA'S SAGE. 





Rethmar, and both routed the army and 
er nae te Grona. 
ao 
cling becese bis it and chiet schoo 
philosoph was es at 
Soon (fm. BAO). 


from the invention of | 


Crouch’mas, 
the Cress to St. Helen’s Day, ie. fro 


wey Eo 8 to August 15. Halliwell, in 
Archaic Dictionary, rn teenpemen  Cicriale 
mas,” aca a this is wholly impossible, as 


his “May Remembrances,” 

says: + From ball cow fae till Croneh- 

minas be past, ic. elen's Day.” 
means «Grose mas." 

Crow. gag oro flies, that be 
seat from int starting to the 
be ached without turned 
by houses, rivers, hills, or 

which do not divert the 
The Americans cal] 


his 


one of the rabble leaders 


character was Jackson or Jephson, @ 
milliner in the New Exchange, Strand, 
London. He lost a leg in the service of 
the paar ae and “ie a cage nah the 
earning a livin ayin 
a crowd jig Bt Pe Ag few 
to ale-house.—8. Butler, //wiibras, i. 2 
(1664). s 
(The crouth was a long box-shaped 
seule ates with six or more strings, sup- 
gts by a bridge. [t was played with 
last noted performer on this 
ripesll was John Morgan, a Welsh- 
man, who died 1720.) 


Crowe (Captain), the attendant of sir 
Launcelot Greaves (1 5y//.), in his peregri- 
nations to reform society. Sir Launcelot 
is a modem don (juixote, and captain 
Crowe is his Sancho Panza. 

Captaia Crowe had commanded a merchant ship in the 
peetng hegre tiara A pe yaa, “had saved peas 
cellent senman, brave, phi frinelly in his. wrap, bed A 


honest, but ss litthe « nim) with - 
as a sacking child; “whimsical, 
hel 


it wi 
re ie eee io spake, iow 


aever Gnished his T. Smollett, The ddeentures 
af tir Launcelet Greaves (/ (17001. 

Crowflield (Ciristopler), a u- 
donym of Mrs. Sarciet” Beclbor Se Stowe 
(1814- =). 


Crown. Godfrey, when made the | 


ever-lord of Jerusalem, or ‘' Daron of the 
Holy Sepulchre,” refused to wear a crown 


na paki ai | 


ma inter | 


CRUCIFIXION. 


of gold where his Saviour had only wort 
a crown of thorns. 

Canute, after the rebuke he gave to his 
flatterers, refused to wear eforth any 
symbol of royalty at all. 

From thot tees ford forth did for bis brows disown 
The mvohetions aymbol of a crown, 
Preamps and valn 

Crown of the East, Antioch, also 

called “ Antioch the Beautiful.” 


Crown of Ionia, Smyrma, he 
largest city of Asia Minor. 


Crowns. Byron, in Don Juan, says 
the sultan is “master of thirty king- 
doms™ (canto vi. 90). The czar of 
Russia is proclaimed as sovereign of 
seventeen crowns, 

*,* Of course the sultan is no longer 
master of thirty kingdoms, 1878, 


Crowned after Death. Inez de 
Castro was exhumed six years after her 
assassination, and crowned queen of 


Portugal by her husband, don Pedtr_, 
(See Inez pe Castro.) 

Crowgquill (Alf Sasy Henry 
Parenter 2 author of from my 


Memorandum- Book (1859), 0 one of the 
artists of Punch (1805-1872). 


OCroye (Jaahelle countess of), a ward 
of Charles Ps Bold," duke of Burgundy. 
She first a ra ab the turret window in 
Plessis ies ourd, disguised as Jacyueline 
and her marriage with Quentin Durward 
concludes the novel. 

The countess Hameline of Croye, aunt 
to countess Isabelle, Virst disguised as 
Dame Pervtte (2 syl.) at Plessis les 
Tours ; afterward; married to William de 
ka Marck. —Sir W. Scott, Quentin Dur- 
ward (Lime, Edward IV. ). 


Croye (Monseigneur de la), an officer of 
Charles "the Bold," duke of Burgundy, 
—sir W. Scott, Anne of Geierstem (time, 
Edward IV.). 


Croysa'do (The Great), general lord 


Fairfax (L611-1671).—S. Butler, Audi- 
Eas 
Crucifixion (Tic). When Clovis 


was told the story of the Crucifixion, he 


| exclaimed, “Had I and my Franks been 


there, we ‘would soon have avenyed the 


| wrong.” 


When Crillon “the Brave” heard the 
tale, he grew so excited that he could nat 
contain himaelf, and starting in toe 





CUDDIE. 227 





Cud’die or Curusgrr Heaparico, 
a in the service of lady 
af the Tower of Tillietudlem. 


ogue between ‘Thenot 
and C in which Caddy is a lad 
who com of ‘the cold, and Thenot 


degen of ‘pastoral life. 
, At one time and herdsmen 
ys, ‘‘ they are 


and contented ; but 
are effeminate, 
(uxurions, and ambitious.’ He then tells 
the fable of ‘‘The Oak and the 
" (See THExor.) 

Brel. vii. Cuddy is a full-grown man, 
in ong betwen he ste abepher Wily 
n song two she 
worthy of the prise, and then sings to 
them the “Lament of Colin for 

Ecl. x. is between Piers and Cuddy, 
the subject bei ‘6 divine 


enhinged by dip inted poled lava: Spenmer, 
579). 


Cuddy, a shepherd, who eect that the 
charms of his Buxo’ma far exceed those 
of Blouzelinda, Lobbin, who is Blouze- 
linda’s swain, repels the boast, and the 
two shepherds agree to sing the praises 
of their respective shepherdesses, and to 
wake Clod’dipole arbiter of their con- 
tention. Cloddipole listens to their 
alternate verses, pronounces that ‘ both 
merit an oaken staff,” but, says he, ‘‘the 
herds are weary of the so and so am 
I."—Gay, Pastoral, i. (1714 

(This eclogue is in imitation of Virgil's 
Edi. iii.) 


re 


CuiBonoP ‘Of what practical use 
is it? "See Cicero, Pro iM , xii. 82. 
Cato, that great and id commonly 
éemand, when any new unto 
him, “Cal bono?” What would enwe in case the 

pong hehenineiies » Werthies (°° The 
Culdees (is. persons), 
the toe atrimiive ct ele of presbyterian 
in Io’na or Icolm- 


kill Feabenb-tal by St. Columb and 
kil [i of his followers in 563. They 


also founded similar church establial- 
ments at Abernethy, Dunkeld, Kirk- 
saldy | Xirh-Culdee|, etc., and ut Lindes- 





‘CUMNOR HALL. 
fame, in England. Some say as many as 
800 churches were founded them. 
Augustine, a bishop of Waterf 
176 a war of 
mination, when those who could riginal cradle 
sought refuge in Iona, the original 

e sect, and were not driven thence 

till 1203. 
their shades | the 


Peace to 
Ww "s 
Beeson (Seothonas cart pete of God, 


By of Sazom monk was trod. 

Rewiure. 
hh (Sawney), a pedlar.—Sir W, 
Mannering (time, George 


Cumberland ( (Joke of). * The devil 
and John of Cumberland” is a blunder 
for ‘‘The devil and John-a-Camber.* 
John-a-Cumber was a famous Scotch 


gent, Oe Guy 


magician. 
He poste to Seotiand for brave John-a-Camber, 
The renownde for skill. 
Off have I heard he once deoriil. 


unday, John-a-Kent and Jeohn-a-Oumber (1508). 


Cumberland (William Augustus dube 
of), cocnmande: in-ehiet of the arm of 


orge II., whose son he was. 
duke was es ly celebrated for his 
victory of Cullo’den (1746) ; bat he was 


calied ‘‘The Butcher” 
severity with which he stam out the 
clan system of the Scottish Highlanders. 
He was wounded in the leg at the battle 


from the great 


of Dettin ingen (1 (1743). Sir W. Seott has: 
introdu in Waverley (time, 
George II.). 


And thelr hoof. beaten bossa are ted to tae lain. 
Campbell, Lechiel’s Warning. 
Cumberland Poet (The), William 
Wordsworth, born at ( Cockermo uth 
(1770-1850). 


Cumbria. It included Cumberland, 
Dumbarton, Renfrew, Ayr, 


Peebles, Selkirk, Roxburgh, and Dum- 
et | 


Cumnor Hall, a ballad by Mick ie, 
the lament of Amy Ro who 
been won and thrown away by the earl 
of Leicester. She says if ees and 
lilies grow in courts, why did he pluck 
the primrose of the field, which some 
country swain might have won and 
valued? Thus sore and sad the lady 

ieved in Cumnor Hall, and ere dawn 

e death bell rang, and never more was 
that countess seen. 

*.* Sir W. Scott took this for the 
groundwork of his Kenilworth, which he 
called Cwnnor Hall, but Constable, his 





CURTANA. 


the sword of Edward the 

ch had no point, and was 

parvo Wey Ny of ee sich ak hoe 

peg chy (ge sword of 
aes"? 


was so called. 
when Cesena wit vot do the deed, 
Fou hy the Uew clorgy-weapon by, 


Nimes iF erord p tytn 
The Wind aed the Focather, 1 OST 


Curta'na or Courtain, thé sword 
af Ogier the Dane. 
We [Opler) drew Queresin ba sword cat of Its sheath. 
W, Morris, Sorthly Poredia, GL, 


Curt-Hose (2 sy/.), Robert II. duc 
de Normandie (1087-1134). 


Curt-Mantle, Henry II. of Eng- 
laod (1138, 1154-1189). So called be- 
cause he wore the Anjou mantle, which 
was shorter than the robe worn by his 
predecessors, 

Curtis, one of Petruchio’s servants. 

Sha Taming of the Shrew 
(1504). 


Cas‘em Street (London 
after the ground-landlord, Poodles jer Au- 
gustua fhicsan, third viscount Howe. 


Cushla Machree (Irish), ‘‘My 
heart's delight.” 

Custance, daughter of the emperor 
of Rome, sffianced to the sultan of Syria, 
whe abjored his faith and consented to 
be baptized in order to marry her. His 
mother hated this apostacy, and at the 
wedding breakfast slew all the apostates 
except the bride. Her she embarked in a 
ship, which was set adrift, and in due 
time reached the Writish shores, where 
Custance was rescued by the lori-con- 
stable of Northamberland, who took her 
home, and placed her under the care of 
his wife Hermegild, Custance converted 
beth the constable and his wife. A 
young knight wished to marry her, but 
she declined his suit, whereupon he 
murdered Hermeild, and then laid the 
bloody knife beside Custance, to make her 
suspected of the crime. King Alla ex- 
amined the case, and soon discovered the 
real facta, wherenpon the knight was exe- 
cuted, and the king married Custance, 
The quecn-mother highly disapproved of 
the woth, and during the absence of her 
am in Scotland embarked Custance and 
her infant boy in a ehip, which was 
turned adrift, After floating about for 
five years, it was taken in tow by a 
Roman fleet on ita return from Syria, and 


Custance with her son Maurice became | 


the guests of a Roman senator. It so 











CUTHULLIN. | 


nt Home that Alla at this same time wae 


me on a iigrimage, s and encountered 
wife, wher raters with him to 


Northumberland and aod lived im peace and 
happiness the rest of her life.—Chaucer, 
Ca Tales (“The Man of Law's 
Tale,” 1388), 


Custance, a gay and rich widow, whom 
Ralph Roister Doister wishes to marry, 
but he is wholly baffled in his scheme.— 
Nicholas Udall, Ralph Roister Doister 
(first English comedy, 1534). 


Cute (Alderman), a “ practical philo-~ 
sépbar” Lentves nage tr Seen oreryiites. 


In his | Opinion Mit trerg Baer be pot 


otpg Starvation must put down, 

| and so must suicid eS ee 

and poverty.—C, “Dickens The Chimes 
(1844). 


Cuthal, same os Uthal, one of the 
Orkneys. 


Cuthbert (St), a Scotch monk of 
the eae cent 
» Cuthbert’ s " Beads, joints of the 
aeeauaer stems of encrinites, used for 
rosaries. So called from the legend that 
St. Cuthbert sits at night on the rock in 
Holy Island, forging these ‘* beads.” 
she opposite rock serves him for anvil. 


of Lind Lefarn 
" R Cadhbert olin and bulls ve Ina 
Tie sm 


St. Cuthbert's Stane, a granite rock 
in Cumberland. 

St. Cuthbert’s Well, a spring of water 
close by St. Cuthbert's Stane. 


Cuthbert Bede, the Rev. Edw. 
Bradley, author of Vendané Green (1857). 


Cutho'’na, daughter of Rumar, was 
betrothed to Conlath, youngest son of 
Morni, of Mora. Not long before the 
espousals were to be celebrated, Toscar 
came from Ireland, and waa alge 
entertained by Morni. On the fourth da 
he saw Cuthona out hunting, and carried 
her off by force. Being pursued by 
Conlath, a fight ensued, im which 
the young men fell, and Cuthona, after 
languishing for three dave, died also,— 
Ossian, Conlats and Cuthona. 


Cuthullin, son of Semo, commander 
of the Irish ariny, and mayest during the 
minority of Cormac. Ilis wife was 
Tirag’ela, dau apie of Sorglan. Im the 

m called Fingal, Cuthullin was de- 
ted by Swaran king of Loghlin 
[ Soandinacia” , and beng ashanrea te 





» 


CYLLENIUS. 


~ Cylle’nius, Mercury ; 80 called from 
mount Cylléné, in Arcadia, where he was 


Cym'beline 8 syl.), mythical king 
of Liritain for rty-five years. He 
began to reign in the nineteenth year of 
Auyustas Cesar. His father was Tenan- 
tius, who refused to pay the tribute to 
the Romans exacted of Cassibelan after 
hie defeat by Julius Cesar. Cymbeline 
married twice. By his first wife he had 
a daughter named Imogen, who married 
Posthumus Leondtus. His second wife 
had a son named Cloten by a former 
busbend.—Shakespeare, Cymbeline (1605). 


ochles [S8i.mdk’.leex], brother 
of Prresn'lte sont of Marita and hus- 


band of Acras’ia the enchantress. | He 
sets out against sir Guyon, but bei 
ferried over Idle Lake, abandons hime 
self to self-indulgence, and is slain by 
king Arthur (canto oy onsen Faéry 
Queen, ii. 5, etc. (1590 


mr modoce (4 syl.). The mother of 
inel is so called in bk. iv. 12 of the 
Faéry Queen, but in bk. iii. 4 she ig 
spoken of as Cymo’ent ‘‘daughter of 
Nereus” (2 sy/.) by an earth-born father, 
“¢the famous Dumarin.” 


Cymoent. (See Crmopocsg.) 


Cym’ry, the Welsh. 
The Welsh always called themesives ‘’Cymry 


Miteral meaning of which fs “aborigines.” ... 
game word as “Cimbri.” .. . They call their 
© Cymaracg,” Le. “ the primitive tongue."—E. Williams. 
C i’ros, brother of the poet 
= ylow When the Persians, after 
the battle of Marathon, were pushing off 
from shore, Cynegiros seized one of 
their ships with his right hand, which 
being lopped off, he grasped it with his 
left hand : this being cut off, he seized it 
with his teeth, and lost his life. 
ADMIRAL BENBOW, in an eng 
ment with the French, near St. Martha, 
in 1701, had his legs and thighs shivered 
unto splinters by chain-shot ; but (sup- 
ported on a wooden frame) he remained 
on deck till Du Casse sheered off. 
ALMEYDA, the Portuguese governor 
of India, had his legs and thighs shattered 
in a similar way, and caused himself to 
be bound to the ship’s mast, that he might 
wave his sword to cheer on the com- 
batanta. 
Jaarrk, at the battle of Muta, car- 
ried the sacred banner of the prophet. 
One hand being lopped off, he held it 


q@ith the uther; this also being cut off, he . 


281 





CYNTHIA. 


held it with his two stumps, and when ag 
last his head was cut off, he contrived to 
fall dead on the banner, which was thus 
detaincd till Abdallah had time to rescue 
it and hand it to Khaled. 


Cyne’tha (8 syi.), eldest son of Cad- 
wallon (king of North Wales). He was 
an orphan, brought up by his uncle Owen. 
During his minority, Owen and Cynétha 
loved each other dearly; but when the 
orphan came of age and claimed his in- 
heritance, his uncle burnt his eves out by 
exposing them to plates of hot brass. 
Cynetha and his son Cadwallon accom- 
panied Madoc to North America, where 
the blind old man died while Madoc was 
in Wales preparing for his second voyage. 
—Southey, Madoc, i. 8 (1805). 

Cadwallonis erat primeevus jure Cyndtha 

Pron pudor! hare oculis petruus privaris Ooms, 
The Pentarehta. 

Cynic Tub ( The), Diog’enés, the Cynie 
philosopher lived in a tub, and it is to 
this fact that allusion is made in the line: 

[TAey] fetch their doctrines from the Cynic tub. 
Milton, Come, 708 (1634). 

Cy’nosure (8 syl.), the pole-star. 
The word means “‘ the dog’s tail,” and is 
used to signify a guiding genius, or the 
observed of aJ] observers. e nosu’ra was 
an Idean nymph, one of the nurscs 
Zeus (1 syi.). 

Some gentle taper, 
Tho’ a rush candie, from the wicker hole 
Of some clay habitation, visit us 





With thy long levelled rule of streaming 
And thos shaft be our star of Arcady, nen 
Or Tyrian cynosure. 
Milton, Cowwes (168@. 
perhaps 
Tue cynosure of neighDouring eyes 
L' Allegre (143%. 
Cynthia, the moon or Di whe 
was born on mount Cynthus, in Délos. 


Apollo is called ‘* Cynthius.” 
. « « Watching. In the night, 
Beneath Cynthia's melancholy Heht. 
alconer, The Satpewreck, lil. & (1756). 

Cyn'thia. So Spenser, in Colin Clout's 
Come Home Aqain, calls queen Elizabeth, 
‘whose angel’s eye” was his life’s sole 
bliss, his heart's eternal treasure. Ph. 
Fletcher, in Zhe Purple Island, iii., 
also calls queen Elizabeth ‘‘ Cynthia.” 


Her words were like a stream of honey Gesting .. a 
Her deeds were like great clusters of ripe grapes . «« 
Her looks were like beams of the morning sun 
Forth hooking thro’ the wiudows of the east... 
Her thoughts were like the fumes of fran 
Which from a golden censer forth doth risa. 

Spenser, Colén Clout’s Come Home Again (1801) 


Cynth'ia, daughter of sir Pan! Pliant, 
and daughter-in-law of lady Pliant. She 
is in love with Melle’font (2 syl.). Sls 








DALDAH. 


well;" but Tennyson eays that | 


passing 
sir Gawain made him “a mock-kuight of 


the Round Table."—The Last Tirurna- | 


mend, 1, 


Dal'dah, Mahomet's favourite white 


mule. 


Dalga, a Lombard harlot, who tries to 
seduce young Goltho, but Goltho is saved 
oy his fnend Ulfinore.—Sir W. Da- 
venant, Gondibert (died 1668). 


Dalgarno (ord Malcolm of), a pro- 
fi.zate young nobleman, son of the earl 
of Huntinglen (an old Scotch noble 


family). Nigel strikes Dalgarmo with 
bis sword, and is obliged to seek refuge 
un“ Alsatia.” Lord Dalgarno's villainy 


to the lady Hermioné excites the displea- 
eure of king James, and he would have 
been banished if he had not married her. 
After this, lord Dalgarno carries off the 
wife of John Christie, the ship-owner, 
and is shot by captain Colepepper, the 
Alsatian bully. —sir W. Scott, Fetinn 
of Niyel (time, James 1,). 

Dalgetty (Dwjyald), of Drim- 
thwacket, the union of the soldado with 
the pedantic student of Mareschal College. 
Aa a soldier of fortune, he is retained in 
the service of the earl of Monteith, The 
marquis of Amryll (leader of the parlia- 
mentary army) tried to tamper with him 
in prison, but Dugald seized him, threw 
him down, and then made his escape, 
locking the marquis in the dungeon, 
After the battle, captain Dalgetty was 
knighted. This "* Rittmaster” ig o pe- 
dant, very conceited, full of vulgar 
assurance, With a good stock of worldly 
knowledge, a student of divinity, and a 
soldier who leta his sword out to the 
highest bidder, The character is original 
and well dmwn.—Sir W. Scott, Leyend 
of Montrose (time, Charles I.). 

1 war an obd fortalice, but ix now refoced to 
dimenson of a “sconce” that would have delighted oH 
Hrategic wml of Lusgnlel 
Yaies, Celebrities, ie. 

*," The original of this character wna 
Munro, who wrote an account of the 
campaigns of that band of Scotch and 


English auxilianes in the island of 


. af Drmebwacket — 


Swinemiinde, in 1630, Munro was himself | 


one of the band. Dugald Dalgetty is one 
of the best of Scott's characters, 

Dalton (Jrs.), housekeeper to the 
Kev. Mr, Staunton, of Willingham Rec- 
twry.—sir W. 7 Heart of Midiothian 
i ST HM.) 


: the hero of a novel 
apalien es ae lt the (1832) 





DAMOCLES. 


Dalsoll (General Thomas), in the 


royal army of Charles I] —Sir W. Scott, 
Old Mortality (1818). 


Damascus ofthe North. Bosns- 
Serai Sy eae of Bosnia, is so called from 
its garden-like aspect, trees being every- 
where mingled with the houses, > 


Dame du Lac, Vivienne le Fa 
The lake was “en la marche de la pe 
Bretaigne;" “‘en ce lien... avoit le 
dame moult de belles maisons et moult 
riches." 

Dame du Lac, Sebille (2 syl.). Her 
castle was surrounded bya nver on which 
rested so thick a fog that no eve could 
see across it. Alexander the Great 
abode a fortnight with this fay, to be 
cured of his wounds, and king Arthur 
was the result of their amour, (This ia 
not im accordance with the genern 
legends of this noted hero. See Ap- 
THUR. rl haa i. 42. 


Dam ‘ian, aire attendi 
Grand- Master of e Knights onto 
—Sir W. Scott, JoanAce (tine, Richard I.), 


Damiot'ti (Dr. Baphsti), a Paduan 
quack, who exhibits “the enchanted 
mirror” to lady Forester and lady Hoth- 
well, They see therein the clandestine 
marriage and infidelity of sir Phili 
Forester.—Sir W. Scott, Aunt Wargaret's 
Mirror (time, William Ill. ). 


Damis [Dah.me}, son of Orgon and 
Elmire (2 syl.), impetuous and self- 
willed. —Moliere, Tartujfe (1664), 


Damn with Faint Praise. 
Damn with faint protee, aasent with civil leew, 
Aod without mucering teach the ret to meer, 
- Prologus to the Satires, 201 (1734). 
Damno' the people of Damno'- 
nium, that is, Cornwall, Devon, Dorset- 
shire, and part of Somersetshire, This 
region, says Richard of Cirencester (Hist, 
vi. 18) waa much frequented the 
Pheenician, Greek, and Gallic i Soy 
for the metals with which it bounded’ 
and particularly for its tin. 
Wherein our Devo food furthet Cornwal are, 


heblire now 
The ol Danmonli [aie) dwelt 
Drayton, Polpatkien, rv. (1613). 


Dam 'ocles (3 sy/.), asycophant, in the 
court of Dionys'ius the Elder, of Syracuse, 
After extolling the felicity of princea, 
Dionysius tuld him he would give him 
experimental proof thereof. Acco “J 
ne had the courtier arrayed in royal ro 
and seated at a sumptuous bangu bus 
overhead was a sword suspended | 








DANAW. 285 DANTE AND BEATRICE. | 
eine they were doomed in hadés to | In matters of the robe and cap supreme ; 
pour waler everhating’y into sieves. teh nl) rag a 

Let not your prodeoce, dearest, drowsa or prove Fazio, iL 1 (1 


The Dansld of o leaky rose. 
Tenoyson, Tha Prince, {L 


a ae tae CO See 


was Hypermnestra, whose husband's | 


use). 


Dan’aw, the German word for the 
Danube, rete Milton in his Paradise 
Lost, i. 853 (1665) 

Dancing Chancellor (The), sir 
Christopher Hatton, who attracted the 
attention of queen Elizabeth by his 
ful dancing at a 


*,” Mons. de Lauzun, the favourite of 
Louis XIV., owed his fortune to his 
dancing in the king's quadrille, 


Dancing Water (The), from the 
Burning Forest. This water had the 
power of imparting youthful cope Me to 
those who used it. ince Chery, aided 
by a dove, obtained it for Fairstar. 

The water is the eighth wonder of the world. 
Tt hematite: ladims, tnakes them young again, and even 
eoriches them —lomimees D'Aunoy, 
cous Fairstar,” 1623). 

Dandies (The prince of), Beau Brum- 
mel (1778-1840). 

Dandin (George), a rich French 
tradeaman, w os marries Ang’elique, the 
anges of Mons. le baron de Sotenville, 

and has the “ privilege" of paying off 
the family debts, maintaining his wife's 
noble parents, and being anubbed on all 

ons to his heart's content. He 
constantly said to himself, in self-rebuke, 
Vous (avez cvulu, vows Cavex poulu, Georye 
Pandin! ("You have no one to blame 
but yourself ! you brought it on yourself, 
George Dandin !") 


Eine Favew sei, Wout Susie yous, Ueaue Sawin I 
pn tet 


i ek, 
*.” There is no such phrase in the 
eomedy as 7 fas voulu, it is always Vous 
Saves vouls. 
Dan'dolo (Signor), a friend to Fazio 
im prusperity, but who turns from him 
wien in 


The latter portion 
) hat the ret reminds oe of Mr, Le 





Dane'lagh @ syl.), the fifteen 
Enuland, viz” Essex, Middlenes, Suffolk, 
viz., x, esex, 
Norfolk, Herta, Cambs., Hanta, Lincoln, 
Notts., Derby, Northampton, Leicester- 
shire, Bucks., Beds., and the vast ter- 
ritory called’ Northumbria, — Bromton 

CAronicle (printed 1652). 


pangsan (Juwer 4 ia), to play os 
at cards ox Philippe de 

urcillon, marquis de Dangeau (1638- 
1720). 

Dan'gerfield (Captain), a hired wit~ 
ness in the “ Popi Po Se Ww. 
Tai Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles 

Pecan ged gentleman bitten with the 
mania, Agecr annoys & manager 


= rg merges flat and hao,» pl It 
SiL1 t ons han, 6 
t of small napatation, the 


wiped of this cbaracter.-Bher 
The Critic (see act i. 1), (1779). 


of the sentence is intelligible . 
ae pean the harder to rs remark, thal the 
pace Brit. Art " Lomasce.” 


as haeate one of the ii who 


. didnot “acknowledge the great olan” 


When the princess Badoura in her slee E podloas 
was carried to the bed of prince Camaral 
zaman that she might see him, Danhasch 
changed himself into a flea, and bit her 
lip, at which Badoura awoke, saw the 
prince sleeping by her side, and after- 
wards became his wife—<Arahan Nights 
( Camaralzaman and Badoura”). 


Daniel, son of Widow Lackitt: a 
wealthy Indian planter. A noodle of the 
softest mould, whom Lucy Weldon mar- 
ries for his money.—Thomas Southern, 
Urvonofo (1696). 

Dan'nischemend, the Persian 
sorcerer, mentioned in Donnerhugel's 


narrative.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of Geier- 
stein (time, Edward 1V.). 


Dante and Beatrice. Some say 
that Beatrice, in Danté’s Divina Com- 


mediz, merely personities faith ; Dsgsiay 
think it a real ter, and say she was 
the daughter of an illustrious ate 


Portinan, for whom the poet catertaleed 
@ purely platonic sie, a 


the a after he 
tans 


Sault ued Goaaieta river 


DARIUS AND HIS HORSE. 





Wa. Deveosnt Gondibert, 


Darlemont, ian and maternal 
uncle of Julio arancour; formerly a 
He takes on the 
inheritance of his by foul means, 
bat is proud as Lucifer, suspicious, ex- 
acting, and tyrannical. Every one fears 

im; no one loves him.—Thom. Hol- 
croft, Deaf and Dumb (1785). 


peng Goose daughter of William 
th use-keeper on Longstone, 
one one oft the Farne Ialands. On the mormn- 
ing of September 7, 1838, Grace and her 

saved nine of the crew of the 
Forfarshire steamer, wrecked among the 
Farne Islands opposite Bamborough 
Castle (1815-1842). 


Darnay (Charles), the lover and 
afterwards the husband of Lucie Ma- 
nette. He bore a strong likeness to 
Sydney Carton, and was a noble character, 
worthy of Lucie. His real name was 
Evre’monde.—C. Dickens, A Tale of Two 
Cities (1859). 


Darnel (Aurelia), a character in 
Smollett’s novel entitled The Adventures 
ws  eocle Launceot Greaves (1760). 


the amant of Charlotte 


fam Hypocrite, by I 
mer i In “Moti res comedy of 
‘© Mariane,” 


I: ¢, Charlotte is call 
ey is * Value.” 


a 


ter of Colla, and 
She fell in 
one of the evilshine). 


cc Pnaet of Herin’s 

eich a Ba ge heya 
sn 0 

Coen rebel, wae also ta with 

her, but his suit was rejected. Nathos 

wag made commander of king Cormac's 








army at the death of Cuthallin, and fer 
e time i held the tottering throne. 

e rebel grew stronger and stronger, 
and at | ech found means to murder 
the young ing; whereu 
under Nathos deserted. Nathos was now 
obliged to quit Ireland, and Dar-Thula 
fied with him. A storm drove the vessel 
back to Ulster, where Cairbar was en- 
cam , and Nathos, with his two 

rothers, being overpowered by numbers, 
fell. Dar-Thula was arrayed as a young 
warrior; but when her lover was slain 
‘“‘her shield fell from her arm; her 


founded 
sto rat of Deirdri,” i ¢ Trans. of ne 
Dar'tle (Rosa), companion of Mrn 


Steerforth. She loved 1 Mrs. Steerforth's 
son, but her love was not reciprocated. 
Mise Dartle is a vindictive woman, noted 
for a ecar on her lip, which told tales 
when her temper was aroused. This scar 
was from a wound given by young Steer- 


forth, who Dickens er on the lip when a 
David Copperfeld 


(18i9). 


Darwin’s Missing Link, the 
link between the monkey and man. 


According to Darwin, the present host 
of animal li life began from a few elemental 
form which developed, and by natural 
selection 
animal while oth others less cer tited to the the 
battle of life died out. Thus, beginning 
with the larve of ascidians (a marine 
mollusc), we get by development to fish 
lowly o ized (as the lancelct), thence 
to ganoids and other fish, then to am 
From amphibians we get to birds 
and reptiles, and thence to mammals, 
among which comes the monkey, 
which and man is a Missino LINK. 


Dashall (The Hon. Tom), cousin of 

Tall -ho. The rambles and adventures 

ese two blades are related by Pierse 
ean (1821-1822). 


D’Asumar (Count), an old Nestor, 
who fancied nothing was so good as when 
he was a young man. 


ii 








DAVID. 





Darid, of North Wales, eldest 
gon of Owen, by his second wife. Owen 
died im 1169. Sazon princess. He slew 
Plantagenet, a Saxon princess. He slew 
his brother Hoel and his half-brother 
Yorwerth (son of Owen bow first wife), 
who had been set aside the succes- 
sion in consequence of a blemish in the 
face. He also imprisoned his brother 
Rodri, and drove others into exile, 
Madoc, one of his brothers, went to 
America, and established there a Welsh 
eae, Madoc (1805). 


rontt son of Xantus prince of 
yanshire) and the nun Ma- 
yee was the uncle of king Arthur 
Sc Ds David first embraced the ascetic life 
in the Isle of Wight, but subsequently 
removed to Menevia, in Pembrokeshire, 
here he founded twelve convents. In 
the archbishop of Caerleon resigned 
see to him, and St. David removed 
seat of it to Menevia, which was sub- 
sequently called St. David's, and became 
the metro of Wales, He died at the 
of 146, in the year (42. The waters 
of Bath “owe their warmth and et 
quilities to the benediction of this saint. 
ero gs be lived in the valley of 
eat ts syi.), between the hills of 
onmouthshire. 
een ae with moe acl ivy grown, 
Rpt eal Dap Berg heped sedate 
Thai reverend British mint in selouws ages pais, 
To contemplauion Lived. 
Polyoltion, tv. (1512). 


St. Dawd's Day, March 1. The leek 
worm by Welshmen on this day ia in 
memory of a complete victory obtained 
by them over the Saxons (March 1, 640). 

is victory is ascribed ‘‘to the prayers 
of St. David,” and his judicious adoption 
of s leek in the eap, that the Britons 
might readily recognize each other. The 
Saxons, having no badge pot unfre- 
quently turned their swords against their 
own supporters. 


Davidand Jona inseparable 

friends. The allusion is to David the 

mist and Jonathan the son of Saul. 

; etl lamentation at the ripe he 

ona WBA never su in pathos 
end beauty.—2 Samuel ar. 


Davie Debet, debt. 
Bo ofte thy nelghhoury ban yuect 
Tm Darts Dott ta ty parle eLand. i 
Ad this thee] welconre' ts thine own dec 
G Gascoigne, Vagnem lectigal, etc. 17H. 


Davie of Stenhouse, a friend of 
Hobbie Elliott.—Sir W. Scott, The Black 
Dw wf (time, Anne), 


s 


BFES 








DAWSON. 


Davies (John), an old fisherman 
employed by Joshua Geddes the quaker, 


W. ‘Sco let 
George Ili). ee Ses 


Da'vus, a plain, uncouth servitor; 
a common SR pg a slave in Greek and 
Roman plays, as in the Andria of 
Terence. 

His fee made of brea, Ike a rico ‘in rT 





Davus sun, non G'dipus. I am a 


homely man, and do not understand 
hints, innnendoes, and riddles, like (cdi- 
pus. (Edipus was the Theban who 
expounded the riddle of the Sphinx, that 
puzzled all his countrymen. Davus was 
the stock name of a servant or slave in 
Latin comedies, ‘The proverb is used by 
Terence, Andria, 1, 2, Bs 

Davy, the variet of justice Shallow, 
who so identifies himself with his master 
that he considers himself half host half 
varlet. Thos when he seata Bardolph 
and PF, at table, he tells them they 
must take “his” pr will for ther 
assurance of welcome.—Shakespeare, 2 
Henry JV. (1598). 


Daw (Sir Dard), a rich, dunder- 


| headed baronet of Monmouthshire, with- 


out wit, words, or worth, but believi 
himself somebody, and fancying him 

a sharp fellow, because his servants la 

at his good say Lp ze, and his mother callr 
him a wag Javid pays his suit to 
Miss [Emily] Teupeat ut as the affec- 
tions of the youn lady are fixed on 
llenry Woodville, the baron goes to the 
wall.—Cumberland, Zhe Wheel of For- 
tune (1779). 


Dawfyd, ‘the one-eyed” freebooter 


chief.—Sir W. Scott, The Setrothed 
(time, Henry II.). 

Dawkins (Jack), known S fen 
sobriquet of the “‘J Lb " He 
is one of Fagin's tools. Jack Dawkins is 


a young scamp of unmitigated villainy, 
and full of artitices, but of a cheery, 
buoyant temper.—C. Dickens, liver 
Twist, viii. (1887). 

Dawson (Jully), a London sharper, 
bully, and debauchee of the seventeenth 
century.—See Spectator, No, 2. 

Bully Dawson kicked by baif the town, and bait the 
town kicked by Bully Dawson.—Charles Lamb, 

Dawson (Jemmy). Ca tain James Dawe 
son was one of the cight officers 
ing to the Manchester volunteers in t 





DAZZLE. 241 


DEANS, 








Cromweii's day was September 4. 

Qn September 8, 1650, he won the battle 

bar; on September 3, 1651, he 

won the battle of Meret on Septem- 
died. 


ber 3, 1658, he 
HaAnovp's day was October 14. It was 
his birthday, and aleo the day of his 
death. William the Conqueror was born 
on the same dav, and, on October 14, 1066, 
won England by conquest. 
NaPoLeon's day was A , 15, his 
lirthday ; but his “lucky” day, like 
that of his nephew, Napoleon I1J., was 
the Sud of the month, He was made 
eonsul for life on August ?, 1802; was 
erowned December 2, 1804 ; won his 
greatest battle, that of Austerlitz, for 
which he obtamed the title of ‘‘Great,” 
December 2, 1805: married the arch- 
duchess of Austria April 2, 1810; ete. 
Naroteow Iii. e coup d'état was 
December 2, 1851, Louis Hareloet was 
made emperor December 2, 1852; he 
opened, at Saarbriick, the Franco-German 
war August 2, 1870 ; ‘and surrendered his 
fig to William of Prussia, September 2, 
0 


Dazzle, in London Assurance, by 
D. Boncicanlt. 


ws never epee Sa ss 
beret cnt acting 
—Percy Fitegerald. 


De Bourgo ( William), brother of the 

earl of Lilster and commander of the 

lish forces that defeated Felim 

O'Connor (1915) at Athunree, in Con- 
' t. 


Why tho’ fallen her brothers kerne [/risA infantry 
Beneath De Bourgo's battle evern. 
OCeaner's Child. 


De Courcy @ romance called 
Women, by the Rev. C. R. Matnrin. An 
Irishman, made up of contradictions and 


improbabilities. He is in love with 
Zaira, a brilliant Italian, and also with 
ber unknown hter, called Eva Went- 


worth, a model o 
are blighted by his :nconstancy. Eva 
dies, but Zaira lives to see De Courcy 
perish of remorse (14722). 


De 1, a noble, staid gentleman, 
pewlyv lighted from his travela; brother 
ot Orisa’ lk, 7 who ‘‘ chases" Mi'rabel “the 

" and catches him.—Heaumont 
one Fletcher, The Wild-ypoose Chase (1052), 


De L’Epée( Ae). Seeing a deaf and | 


dumb lad eahandoned in the streets of 
Paris, be rescues him, and brings him up 
ander the name of Theodore. The found- 


1* 


purity. Both women | 





ling turns out to be Julio count of Har 
ancour. 


“In opinion, a as recat penina thag 
France tos over Behe woealad 
Dalembert, Nature (woud ) Daffon ; Wit aml 

Taste | would] prement Voltaire ; tine € for 


Profundis (‘‘out of the 
depths . . ."), the first two words of 
Poalm cxxx, in the Roman Catholic 
Liturgy, sung when the dead are com- 


mitted to the grave. 
At eve, Instead! of tris! verse, 
The De Profundis Blled the alr. 
Longiellow, Tha lind Girt. 


De vee a - Seg of 
Florian and unele of During 
his nbvenee in the war He left his ae 
man, n Longueville, guardian 
his castle; but ander the hope of coming 
into the property, the baron set fira to the 
castle, intending thereby to kill the wife 
and her infant Koy When De Valmont 
returned and knew his losses, he became 
a wayward recluse, querulous, despoudent, 
frantic at times, at at times most melan- 
choly. He adopted an infant ‘* found ine 


| forest," who turned out to be hisson, His 


wife wag ultimately found, and the vil- 
lainy of Longuey ille was brought to light. 
—W. Dimond, The Foundling of the Forest. 

Many "De Velmeonts” | have wiki’ in fom 
Holumn (17641815) Dowden 

Deaf and Dumb (The), « comedy 
by Thomas Holeroft. ‘The deaf and 
dumb" is Julio count of Harancour, 
a ward of ae Darlemont, who, in rors to 
get possession of his ward's prope 
abandens him when very young in 
streets of Paria. Here he is rescued by 
the abbé De |'Epée, who brings him up 
under the name of Theodore. The boy 
being recognized by his old nurse ana 
others, Darlemont confesses his cnm 
and Jolio is restored to his rank am 
inheritance.—Th. Holeroft, The Deaj and 
Dumb (1785). 

Dean of St. Patrick (The), Jona- 

Swift, who waa appointed to the 
deanery in 1713, and retained it till his 
death (1667-1745). 

Deans (Dowe Davie), the cowherd 
at Edinburgh, noted for hia religious 
peculiarities, his magnanimity in affec- 
thon, and his eccentricities, 

Mistress Rebecca Deans, Douce Davie's 
second wife. 

Jeanie Deans, daughter of Douce Davie 

B 


aes eo o> EER queer, nw 


| DEBON. 





DEFARGE. 





styled The Debatable [and. Sir Richard 
Graham bought of James I. of England a 
lease of this tract, and got it united to 
the county of Cumberland. As James 
ruled over both kingdoms, he was 
supremely indifferent to which the plot 
was annexed. 


Deb’‘on, one of the com 
Brute. According to British fable, Devon- 
shire is a corruption of ' Debon's-share,” 
or the share of country assigned to Debon. 

Deborah Debbitch, governante at 
lady Peveril's.—Sir W. Scott, Peveri of 
the Peat (time, Charles I1.). 

Dec’ Iu, dec'adis, the holida 
every ai’ Pi in substitution of the 
Sunday or sabbath, in the first French 
Revolution. 


AD déead) be labours In the corner of the Augustin 
—— be culls thal bls bo iday.—The Afetier du 


Decem Scriptores, a collection 
of ten ancient chronicles on E _ 
00D) 


history, edited by Twysden and 
Selden. The names of the chroniclers 
are Simeon of Durham, John of Hexham, 
Richard of Hexham, Ailred of Rieval 
Ralph de Diceto, John Brompton of 
Jorval, Gervase of Canterbury, Thomas 
Stubbe, William Thom of Canterbury, 
and Henry Knighton of Leicester. 


De'cius, friend of Antin'ous (4 syi.). 
—Beaumont and Fletcher, Laws of Candy 
(1647). 

Decree of Fontainebleau, an 
edict of Napoleon I., ordering the destruc- 
tion by fire of all English goods (dated 
October 18, 1810, from Fontainebleau), 


Dec'uman Gate, one of the four 
gates ina Romancamp. It was the gate 
opposite the pretorian, and furthest from 
the enemy. Called decwnan because the 
tenth legion was always posted near it. 
The other two gates (the porta principalis 
dextra and the porta principals simustra) 
were on the other sides of the square. If 
the pretorian yale was at the top cf this 

é, the decuman gate would be at the 
tiom, the porta derira oo the right 
hand, and the porta sinistra on the left. 

Dedlock (Sir Lewester), bart., who 
has a general opinion that the world 
might get on without hills, but would 
be totally done up" without |edlocks. 
He loves lady Dedlock, and believes in 
her implicitly. Sir Leicester is honour- 
able and truthful, but intensely preju- 


diced, immovably obstinate, and proud | 


os “county” can make a mao; but his 


ions of | 


| Prairie, in which lazt boo 





pride has a most dreadful fall when the 
me lady eirvane3 eae re 

ady Dedlock, wife sir Leicester, 
beautiful, cold, and apparently heartless ; 
but she is weighed down with this terrible 
Migr ap ae Sy cae i she _—— 
a daughter by captain Hawdon. " 
ares name is Esther (Summerson] 
the heroine of the novel. 
Dedlock, cousin of sis 
A “young” Indy of 60, 
given to rouge, pearl-powder, and cos- 
metics, She a habit of prying into 
the concerns of others. Dickens, 
Bieak House (1853). 


Dee's um, a mirror, which 
Dr. foba Den asserted was brought 
to him by the Is Raphael and 
Gabriel. At the d of the doctor it 
eee into the possession of the earl of 

eterborough, at Drayton; then to lady 
Betty Germaine, By whom it was given 
to John last duke of Argyll. The duke's 

deon (lord Frederic Campbell) gave 
it to Horace Walpole; and in 1542 it was 
sold, at the dispersion of the curiosities 
of Strawberry Hill, and bought by Mr. 
Bmvythe Pigott. At the sale of Mr. 
Pigott’s library, in 1853, it passed into 
the possession of the Iste lord Londes- 
borough, <A writer in Notes and Queries 
(p. 876, November 7, 1874) anys, it ‘has 
now been for many years in the British 
Museum," where he saw it “some 
aa ae years neo. Le eee 

ig magic apeculum is o fla is 
mineral, like sean coal, of a Seudier 
form, fitted with a handle. 

Deerslayer ( The), the title of a novel 
by J. F. Cooper, and the nickname of its 
hero, Natty or Nathaniel Bumppo. He 
ia a model uncivilized man, honourable, 
truthful, and brave, pure of heart and 
without reproach. He is introduced in 
five of Cooper's novela: The Deerslayer, 
The Pathfinder, The Lawt of the Mohicans, 
The Pianeera, and The Prairie. He is 
called “‘ Hawk-eye” in The Laat of the 
Mohicans; “ Leather-stocking” in The 
Pioneers; and “ The es ra in The 
he diea, 

Defar Mons.), keeper of a wine 
shop in the Faubourge St, Antoine, in 
Paria. He is o bull-necked, good- 
humoured, but implacable-looking man, 

Ade. Defarye, his wife, a dangerous 
woman, with great force of character ; 
everlastingly knitting. 


Mda Deforge had o watehfal eps, thet ldom seemed 
folook ot anything. —C Dithens, 4 Fala of Teo Oldies 
L.@ Lee 


Volumnia 
Leicester, 








DELPHINE. 


in 1582 to a society in Florence, 
orgie’ bn 108 the national lan- 
gusee and sift it all its impurities ; 
applied in England to a brotherh 
bl roe (at the close of the last senkary’ 
the leadership of Mrs. Piozzi. 
This school was conspicuous for affec- 
tation and high-flown ics on each 
—_ It was stam Gifford, in 
The Baviad, in 1794, and a The Maria in 
1796, — | Marey who 
Della 
“(bio grapher of Dr. John- 
orton, Reynolds, Hol- 
Mrs. H, Cowley, and Mrs. Robinsun were 
ita best eats 





ames Cobb a fa writer, 
gon 
po ay Sheridan, Colman the younger, 


Delphine ), the heroine and title 
terse det dy Steak Delphine is 
a charm , who has a faithleas 


leven and dies of a broken heart. This 
novel, lik like Corinne, was written during 
her banishment from France b Napo- 
Jeon J., when she travelled in Sw terland 
and care aol It is generally thought that 
‘* Delphine” was meant for the authoress 
(1902). 


Delphine Classics (The), a set of 
in ics edited in France for the use 
ef the grand dauphin (son of Louis XIV.), 
Huet wae chief editor, assisted by Mon- 
tausier and Bossuet. They had aa * 
nine scholars working under them, a 
rea of these classics are very valu- 
e. 


Delta [4] of Blackwood is D. M., 
Moir (1798-1851). 


Del’ville (2 sy!.), one of the guardians 
of Cecilia. @ is a man of wealth and 
great wabeatatiot with a haughty bhu- 
mility and condeacending pride, especially 
in his intercourse with his social inferiors. 
—Miss Burney, Cecilia (1782). 


Demands. Jn full of all euaaate, 
as his lordship says, His “ lordship" 
the marquis of Blandford; and the 
ullusion is to Mr. Benson, the jeweller, 
who sent in a claim to the marquis for 


tnferest to a bill which had run more than | 


twelve months. Ilia lordship sent a 
cheque for the bill itself aod wrote on it, 
“In full of all deman Mr. Benaon 
accepted the bill, and sued for the 
interest, but was non-auited (1871). 

Deme’ South Wales ; the inhabit- 
acts are called Demetians, 


Denevoir, the seat of the Deametian king. 
Drayton, Iulgodldon, 1. (101%), 


himself | 





DEMOGORGON, 
trius, o young Athenian, to 
whom Egeus (3 sy/.) promised his 
Senate level lopseetec, she: 
ermia lo to 
Demetrius, and fled from Athens 
with Lysander, Demetrius went in quest 


doted on him, All four 
‘‘dreamed a dream” about the 
On waking, Demetrius became more 


liked i bat that Leary a _ 
since so he consented to fo 8 
rect take to wife the elise, When 
Egeus, the father of Hermia, found out 
how the case stood, he consented to the 


union of his ter with Lysander.— 
| Shakespeare, “Midwmuncr Night's Dream 


(1592). 


Deme'trius, in The Poetaster, by Ben 
7 paged Jobo Marston (died 


Deme'trius (4 Antig’- 
onus, in love Cn bie alias Roane. 
—Beaumont and Fletcher, The Afumorous 


Lieutenant (1647). 


Deme'trius, m citizen of Greece durin ag 
the reign of Alexius 4 —Sir V 
aha). Count obert of aris (time, 

ua 


Demiurgus, that mysterious agent 

which, according to Pinto, made the 

world and all that it contains. The 

Logos or ““ Word” of St. John's Gc 
ch. i. 1) is the demiurgua of platonizmg 
ristians, 


Democ'ritos (in Latin Democritus), 
the laughing or scoffing philosopher, the 
friar Bacon of his age. To ‘dine with 
Democritos” is to go without dinner, the 
same as “dining with duke Hen preys 
or “dining with the cross-l 
knights.” 
hag a be think Se ee 
the fraternity who ls not welcome to some good tabla.— 
Lesage, Gi) Bla, cll. 7 (1725). 

Democritus Junior, Robert Bur- 
ton, author of Zie Anatomy of Melancholy 
(1576-1640), 


Demod'ocos (in Latin Demodocus), 
bard of Alcin’ous (4 sy/.) king of the 
Phwa'cians. 


eee the wae Demodicos once told 
— Ne am ee of king Aaa 


font, 
“ih ht osteo + ely ntmmnleney 
Are hei pack Hie trae coe oe 
ond wwent captivity. 
Milton, Vocation Zuetsteo (DOAN. 


Dem ‘ogor’gon, tyrant of the elves 








DERBY. 


tke barons, knights, and squires (1845). 
Next year he tock the fortresses of 
Monsegur, Monsepat, Villefranche, Mire- 
mont, ennins, Damassen, Aiguilon, and 

e. 

Heary's third wallasi son, the carl of Lancaster, 

That only Mars of men. 

Drayton, Pelyeldion, xviii (1613). 


Derby (Countess of), tlotte de la 
Tremouille, sranteas ct Derby and queen 





Derby, king of Man, son 
of the antes — Sir y. Scott, Peveril of 
the Peak (time, Charles I].). 

Derrick, hangman in the first half of 
the seventeenth century. The crane for 
hoisting goods is called a derrick, from 
this hangman. 

Derrick (Tom), quarter-master of the 

Pirate 


irate's vessel.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe 
time, William II].). 


Derry-Down Triangle (The) 
lord ereagh ; rwards marquis 0 
Londonderry ; 80 called by illiam 


Hone. The first word is a pun on the 
title, the second refers to his lordship’s 
oratory, a triangle being the most feeb ne 
monotonous, and unmusical of all musi 
instruments. Tom Moore compares the 
oratory of lord Castlereagh to ‘‘ water 
spouting from a pump.” 


Why is a pump like viscoun 
Ds Because it is a slender thi 


That ap and down its a arm doth sway, 
And coolly spout, and t, and away, 
In one weak. washy, 
T. Moore. 


Dervise (‘‘a poor man"), a sort of 
religious friar or mendicant among the 
Mohammedans. 


Desborough (Colonel), one of the 
rliamentary commissioners.—Sir W. 
Boot, Woodstock (time, Commonwealth). 


Desdemo’na, daughter of Brabantio 
a Venetian senator, in love with Othello 
the Moor (general of the Venetian army). 
The Moor loves her intensely, and marries 


her; Lut lago, by artful villainy, induces 
him to believe t she loves io too 
well. After a violent conflict between 


Jove and jealousy, Othello smothers her 
with a bolster, and then stabs himself.— 
Soakespeare, Othello (1611). 


The soft dmplicity of Desdemona. confident of merit 
nd comarioue of innocence. artless perseverance in 


Desert Fairy (Zhe). This fairy 
was gua.ded by two lions, which coul 








DESERTER,. 


be pacified only by a cake made of 
millet, sugar candy, and crocodiles’ eggs. 
The Desert Fairy said to Allfair, ‘‘I sweng 
by my coif he shall marry the Yellow 
Dwarf, or I will burn my crutch.” 
Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy Tales (‘* The 
Yellow Dwarf,” 1682). 
Deserted Daughter (The), a 
comedy by Holcroft. Joanna was the 
Hed of Mordent, but her mother 





d 

died, and Mordent married lady Anne. 
Ia order to do so he ignored his daughter 
and had her brought up by strangers, 
intending te apprentice her to some trade. 
Item, & moey-lender, acting on the ad- 
vice of Mordent, lodges the girl with 
Mrs. Enfield, a crimp, where Lennox is 
introduced to her, and obtains Mordent’s 
consent to run away with her. In the 
interim Cheveril sees her, falls in love 
met, her, and determines to her. 

ordent repents, es the girl hom 
acknowledges her to be his daSshter and 
she becomes the wife of the gallant 
young Cheveril (1784). hee and 
« is com as been recast, 

called The Steward. 


Deserted Village (The). Tho 

t has his eye chiefly on Lissoy, its 
andscapes and characters. Here his 
father was pastor. He calls the village 
Auburn, but tells us it was the seat of 
his youth, every spot of which was dear 
and familiar to him. He describes the 
pastor, the schoolmaster, the ale-house ; 
then tells us that luxury has killed all 
the simple pleasures of village life, but 
asks the friends of truth to judge how 
wide the limits ‘‘ between a splendid and 
a happy land.” Now the man of wealth 
and pnde 

SSEvEEyasre 

apace sae e 0. Goldamnith (1770) 

Some think Springfield, Essex, is the 

place referred to. 
oan 
authori of the 
Three Pigeons swi over the Goor-way. as ‘that 


Queries, October 12, 1878. 


Engtend, Art. ‘'Spring- 


Deserter (The), a musical drama by 
Dibdin (1770). » & soldier, is en- 
gaged to Louisa, but during his nce 
some rumours of gallantry to his disad- 





eee Cee 


DEVIL. 


Devil (Son of the), Ezzeli’no, chief of 
the Gibelins, governor of Vicenza. He 
was so called for his infamous cruelties 
(1215-1259). 





Devil Dick, Richard Porson, the 
eritic (1759-1808). 

Devil on Two Sticks (The), that 
is Le Diable Boitcuz, by Lesage 1707). 
The plot of this humorous satirical tale 
Cofactor com the apes). re Dratot oho 

] y Gueva’ra (1635). Asmode’us 
(le diahle boiteur) perches don Cle'ofas 
on the steeple of St. Salvador, and 

ing out his hand the roofs of all 
the houses open, and expose to him what 
is being done privately in every dwelling. 

Devil on Two Sticks (The), a farce by 
S. Foote; a satire on the medical pro- 
fession. 

Devil to Pay (The), a farce by C. 


Coffey. Sir John Loverule has a terma- 
gant wife, and Zackel Jobson a patient 
issel, o spirits named Nadir and 


b’ishog transform these two wives for a 
time, so that the termagant is given to 
Jobson, and the patient wife to sir John. 
When my lady tries her tricks on Jobson, 
he takes his strap to herand soon reduces 
her to obedience. After she is well re- 
formed, the two are restored to their 
original husbands, and the shrew becomes 
an obedient, modest wife (died 1745). 

The Devil to Pay wes long a favourite, chiefly for the 
character of * Neil ~ [the codtier's wife] which made 

bers, Znglish 


the fortunes of several actremoa —Cham 
Léeoreture, li 141. 

Devil’s Age (Zhe). A wealthy man 
once promi to give a poor gentleman 


and his wife a large sum of money if at 
& given time they could tell him the devil's 
age. When the time came, the ventleman, 
at his wife's suggestion, plunged first 
into a barrel of honey and then into a 
barrel of feathers, and walked on all 
fours. Presently, up came his Satanic 
majesty, and said, ‘‘ Y and x years have | 
tived,” naming the exact number, “yet 
never saw J an animal like this.” e 
gentleman had heard enough, and was 
able to answer the question without diffi- 
culty.—Rev. W. Webster, Basque Leyends, 
58 (1877). 

Devil’s Arrows, three remarkable 
*¢ Jruidical” stones, near Borouyhbridge, 
in Yorkshire. Probably these stones 
si:oply mark the boundary of some pro- 
perty or jurisdiction. 

Devil’s Bridge (The), mentioned by 
Longfellow, in the Goiden Legend, is the 





DEVIL'S DYKE, BRIGHTON. 


bridge over the falls of the Reuss, in the 
canton of the Uri, in Switzerland. 


Devil’s Chalice (The). A wealthy 
man gave a poor farmer a large sum 
money on this condition: at the end of a 
twelvemonth he was either to say “of 
what the devil made his chalice,” or else 
ve his head to the devil. The poor 
armer, as the time came round, hid 
himself in the cross-roads, and presently 
the witches assembled from all sides. 
Said one witch to another, ‘You know 
that Farmer So-and-eo has sold his head 
to the devil, for he will never know 
of what the devil makes his chalice. 
In fact, 1 don’t know myself.” ‘* Don't 
you?” said the other; ‘“‘why, of the 
parings of finger-nails trimmed on Sun- 
days.” The farmer was overjoyed, and 
when the time came round was quite 
ready with his answer.—Rev. W. Web- 


ster, Basque Legends, 71 (1877). 


Devil’s Current (Zhe). Part of the 
current of the Bosphorus is so called ffom 
its great rapidity. 


Devil’s Den, a cromlech in Pres- 
chute, near Marlborough. 


Devil’s Dyke (The), otherwie 
called Grim’s Dyke. This dyke ran from 
Newmarket into Lincolnshire, and was 
designed to separate Mercia from the East 
Angies. Part of the southern boundary 
of Mercia (from Hampshire to the mou 
of the Severn) was called ‘* Wodene 
Dyke,” the present Wan's Dyke. 


Because my depth and breadth so strangely doth exceed 
Men's low and wretched ts, they constantly decreed 
That by the devil's help I nm must rale¢d be, 
Wherefure the “ Devil's Ditch” they 


basely naméd me 
Drayton, Polyolbion, xxi. (163) 


Devil’s Dyke, Frighton (The. 
One day, as St. Cuthman was walking over 
the South Downs, and thinking to him- 
eclf how completely he had rescued the 
whole country from paganism, he was 
accosted by his sable majesty in n. 
‘‘Ha, ha!” said the prince of darkness ; 
‘so you think by these churches and 
convents to put me and mine to your 
ban; doyou? Poor fool! why, this very 
night will I swamp the whole land with 
the sea.” ‘‘ Forewarned is forearmed,” 
thought St. Cuthman, and hies him to 
sister Cecilia, superior of a convent which 
then stood on the spot of the present 
Dyke House. ‘‘ Sister,” said the saint, 
“I love you well. This night, for the 
grace of God, keep lights burning at the 
convent windows from midnight to day- 














DIAMOND SWORD. 261 DIBUTADES. 
Gennevere, in a tiff, flung them into the Diana the Second of 
river which ran by the palace.—Ten- tin, a pastoral romance by Gil Polo. 


nyson, Jdylis of the King (‘* Elaine”). 
, Diamond orere . magic sword 
ven e yren e king 
the Gold Mince 
She gave him 2 word made of one entire diamond, thet 


as lustre as the sun.—Comteme D'Aunoy, Puiry 
Falee ithe Yellow Dwarf,” 1682). 
Diamonds. The largest in the world: 
@ren 
(rssecacd). Onst. Name. Possreser. 
leso ° 8 Bragansa King of Portugal 
— 27 —_— Rajah of Mattan 
(Borneo) 
— 354 MaroftheSouth —— 
— 184 Orloff Caar of Russia 
— 139¢ Florentine Emp. of Austria 
— —_— King of Portugal 
410 136§ Pitt Ki: g of Prussia 
1939 1064, Koh-i-noor queen of England 
— 86 Shab - r of Rare t 
— 824 Pigott essrs. 
and Bridge 
— 78 WNaseac Lord Westminster 
1120 «673 «=Blue —_— 
— 63 Cear of Rusela 
884 44% Dudley Earl of Dudley 
— 4@ Pachaof Egypt Khedive vf Egypt 


*.* For particulars, see each under its 
pame. 


Diana, the heroine and title, a pastoral 
of Montemayor, imitated from the Daph- 
nis and Chloe of Longos (fourth century). 


Dian’a, daughter of the widow of Flo- 
rence with whom Hel’ena lodged on her 
way to the shrine of St. Jacques le Grand, 
Count Bertram wantonly loved Diana, 
bat the modest girl made this attachment 
the means of bringing about a reconcilia- 
tion between Bertram and his wife Helena, 
ns) Alls Well that Ends Weil 

1598). 


Dian’a de Lascours, daughter of 
Ralph and Louise de Lascours, and sister 
of Martha, alias Ogari’la. iana was 
betrothed to Horace de Brienne, whom 
she resigns to Martha.—E. Stirling, The 
Orphan af the Frozen Sea (1856). 


Dian’a the Inexorable. (1) She 
slew Orion with one of her arrows, for 
daring to make love to her. (2) She 
chau Actzon into a stag and set her 
own dogs on him to worry him to death, 
because he chanced to look upon her 
while bathing. (3) She shot with her 
arrows the six sons and six daughters of 
Niobé, because the fond mother said she 
was happier than Latina, who had only 
two childre n. 


Diap@ son movends numina. 
Horace, Rpede, uri. 


** We will preserve that book,” mid the curd, “as care 
fully as tf Apollo himeelf had been its author."—Cervantal, 
Don Qutzote, L. 1. 6 (1605). 

Diana (the Temple of), at Ephesus, 
one of the Seven Wonders of antiquity, 
was set on fire by Herostratos to immor- 
talize his name. 


Diana of the Stage, Mrs. Aane 
Bracegirdle (1663-1748). 
Dian'a’s Fo “‘ minions c4 


the moon,” ‘‘ Diana's knights,” etc., high- 

waymen. 

as that are “ squires the nights boty calied 

thieves... be * Diana's ” * Gentlomes 
Shakespeare, 


of the snnde.”"" minions of the moca.” 
1 Henry 1V. act 1. oc. 3 (1887). 
_Diana’s Livery (To wear), to bea 
virgin. 
One twelve-msoons more sbeTi wear Diana's livery 3 
Tols .. . hath she vowed. 
Perteles Prince of Tyre, act ti. on, 5 (2000. 
Diano'’ra, wife of Gilberto of Friu’li, 
but amorously loved by Ansaldo. In 
order to rid herself of his importunities, 
she vowed never to yield to his suit till 
he could ‘‘ make her garden at midwinter 
as gay with flowers as it was in summer” 
(meaning never). Ansaldo, by the aid of 
& magician, accomplished the appointed 
task; but when the lady told her 
husband insisted on her keeping her 
promise, Ansaldo, not to be outdone in 
generusity, declined to take advantage 
of his claim, and from that day fo 
was the firm and honourable friend of 
Gilberto.—Boccaccio, Decameron, x. 5. 
The Franklin's Tale of Chaucer is sub- 
ae the same story. (See Dori- 
GEN. 


Diarmaid, noted for his ‘beauty 
spot,” which he covered up with his cap; 
for if any woman chanced to see it, she 
would instantly fall in love with him.— 
Campbell, Tales of the West Highlands 
(‘‘ Diarmaid and Grainne"). 


Diav’vlo (Fra), Michele Pezza, in- 
surgent of Calabria (1760-1806).—Auber, 
Fra Diavolo (libretto by Scribe, 1886). 


Dibble (Davie), gardener at Monk- 


barns.—Sir W. Scott, Antiquary (time, 
George ITI.). 

Dibu’tades (4 syl.), a potter of 
Sicyon, whose daughter traced on the 


wall her Jover’'s shadow, cast there by 
the light of a lamp. This, it is said, ts 
the origin of portrait painting. The 
father applied the same process to his 





DIET OF PERFORMERS. 258 





P a ee ae rg 1 with 
Pecnona, ah aia and 
duennas, and Diego (2 sy/.) found them 


Leonora a handsome warriage por- 
ea Bickerstaff, Zhe Padlook. pr 
Bra s buttled porter 
HAM on . 
CaTLrr (Miss) took linseed tea and 
madera. 


Cooxsg (G. F.) drank everything. 
Hewbn eon, yum arabic and sherry. 


INCLEDON on madeira. 

Jorpax (Jfrs.) drank calves’-foot jolly 
Kran (C.) took beef-tea for breakfast, 
and seeferre a J for dinner. 


Kean (Zdm.), Emery, and Rezve 
cold -and-water, 


™ 
uently lived almost wholly on a vege- 
table diet. 


Oxserey drank tea. 
Rvusse.y (henry) took a boiled egg. 
Surrn y ) ae oo ug At 
roop (Mrs.) sang on porter. 
Wrencn and HAarRuzy took no refresli- 
ment during a performance. — W. C. 
Russell, Representative Actors, 272. 
Die'trich (2 syl.). So Theod’oric the 
Great is called by the German minne- 
singers. In the terrible broil stirred up 
by queen Kriemhild in the banquet b 
of el, Dietrich interfered, and, suc 
ceeded in capturi agan aD e 
Bu dian log Cunther. These he 
ed over to the queen, praying her to 
set them free; but she cut off both their 
heads with her own hands.—7he Niebe- 
junyen Lied (thirteenth century). 


Dietrich (John), a labourer’s son of 
Pomerania. He spent twelve years 
under ground, where he met Elizabeth 
Krabbin, hter of the minister of his 
own village, bin. One day, walkin 
together, they heard a cock crow, an 
an irresistible desire came over both of 
them to visit the upper earth. John so 
frightened the elves by a toad, that the 
yielded to his wish, and gave him hoards 
of wealth, with part of which he bought 
half the island of R He married 
Elizabeth, and became the founder of a 
very powerful familvy.—Keightley, Fairy 
Mythology. (See TanmAvaxr.) 





DIMANCHE. 


Dieu et Mon Droit, the 
ot ‘Richard 1. at te bate of Gow 








at Susebexy Hall, Being stage strack, 
w ‘ 8 

he inoculates his fellow-scrvants (Cymon 
and Wat) with the same taste. In the 
same house is an heiress named Kitty 
Sprightly (a ward of sir Gilbert Fump- 
kin), also stage-struck. *s 
vourite character was “‘ Alexander the 
Great,” the son of ‘‘Almon.” One day, 
playing Romeo and Juliet, he turned 
oven into the balcony but, being rung 
for, the Ate acting “ Juliet” was nearly 
roasted ali See Diacory.)—J. Jack- 
man, Ali the World's a Stage. 

Digges (Miss Maria), a friend of 
lady Penfeather ; a visitor at the Spa.— 
Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan's Well (time, 
George III.). 


Diggon [Davie], a shepherd in the 
(pavie] ser. He 


8 ’ by Spen 

tells Hobbinol that he drove his sheep 
into foreign lands, hoping to find better 

ury and profiigacy of the shepherds 
uxury and profligacy e she 
whom he saw there, and the wretched 
condition of the flocks. He refers to 
the Roman Catholic clergy, and their 
abandoned mode of life. Diggon also 
tells Hobbinol a long story about Roffin 
the bishop o Rochester) and his watch- 
ul dog Lauder catching a wolf in sheep’s 
clothing in the fold.—£cl. ix. (Septem- 
ber, 1572 or 1578). 


Diggory, a barn labourer, employed 
on state occasions for butler and footman 
by Mr. and Mrs. Hardcastle. He is 
both awkward and familiar, laughs at 
his master’s jokes and talks to his 
master’s ests while serving. ( 
Diacery.)—Goldsmith, She to 
Conquer (1773). 

iqqgory (Father), one of the monks of 
St. tolph’s Priory.—Sir W. Scott, 
Ivanhoe (time, Richard I.). 

Dill or Ane’'thum. The seeds are 
warm, strong-smelling, and aromatic. 

The wonder-working dill he . 

Which curious women use tn a nice disense. 
dion, xili, (1613). 

Dimanche (fons.), a dun. Mona, 
Dimanche, a tradesman, applies to dos 
Juan for money. Don Juan treats him 
with all imaginable courtesy, but every 
time he attempts to revert to business 
interrupts him with some such question 
as, Comment se porte madame Dimanche? 


DINEVAWR 





Rev. Sidney Smith ; 0 called by the 
Certriy Boar (170-14). y 


Din’evawr (8 sy/.) or Dirxas Vawn 


resid of th 
bing of South Wales, built by Whods 


NIL). 
Dinias and Dercyllis (The W. 
Adventures, oo) Tous of), an 
eld k novel, “the’besis of the recaance 


and bres 
beyond Thule [Za Huper Thoulen Apisia], 
a which subsequent 
writers have borrowed ly. The 


work is not extant, but Photius gives an 
eutline of its _ 


i.e. Andrew), an 
eccentric and eorttas store farmer at 
Charlie's Hope. He is called ‘‘ The Fight- 
D8, Dinmont of Liddesdale.” 

ilie Dinmont, wife of Dandy Dinmont. 
_$ir ve Booth Guy Mannering (time, 


oor 

Thi, povel has been dramatized by 

Daniel Terry. 

peianer Bell. Burke was 20 called 
m his custom ing so long as 

to interfere with the dinner of the mem- 

bers (1729-1797). 


Dinneriess ( The) are said to sit at 
a ‘‘Barmecide feast;” to ‘dine with 
duke Hamphrey ” ito dine with sir 
Thomas Gresham ;” to ‘dine with De- 
mocritos.” Their hosts are said to be the 


knights. 


In the French version, the father is 
called ‘ Delopathon” 
of ow ones tf i.), the negro slave 
cynic losopher ichael 
‘nate. (4 syl.).—Sir W. Scott, 
Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 


Di'omede (8 sy/.) fed his horses on 








DIONYSIUS. 


human flesh, and he was himself eatea 
his horse, being thrown to it by Li 





Dion (Lord), father of Euphra’sia, 
Ruphrasia is in love with Philaster, heir 
to the crown of Messi‘na. 


(There 
between «Ba " and Viola” in 
Shakespeare's Toeifth Wight, 1614.) 


Dionss’an Ceesar, Julius Cusar, 
who claimed descent from Venus, ¢ aiid 
Disné from her mother. 
son of Venus and inte, On 
Ecea, Diensl prosemit Consarie astram. tw, 
Dio’ne 


aité Penus\, a cr dove “being, ti 


ther. Venus 
called Dioné. 
Oh .s green recess, 
Where young DOn@ straye, with swectast abe 
Entice forth to lend her angel form 
Akenside, Piencures of imagination, |. (174@. 


Di wife of Cleon governor 
of Tarsus. Periclés prince of Tyre 
commits to her charge his infant daughter 
Mari’na, supposed to be moth 
When 14 years old, Dionysia, out of 
jealousy, employs a man to murder her 
toster-child, and the people of T 
hearing thereof, set fire to her house, 
ionysia "and Cleon are burnt to 
death in the flames.—Shakespeare, Pericles 
ee of Tyre (1608). 


‘ius, tyrant of Syracuse, de- 
toned vand er, and imprisoned him in 
a@ dungeon deep in a intending 
to starve him Re death. But uphrasia, 
havin gained access to him, fed him 
By er own breast. , Timoleon afety 

Yracuse, an onysius, seeking 
in a tomb, saw there Evander the deposed 
king, and was about to kill him, when 
Eu ia rushed forward, struck the 
tyrant to the heart, and he fell dead at 
her feet.— A. Murphy, Zhe Grecian 


nid (1772). 
* In this tragedy there are several 
ss historical errors. In act i. the 


ethor tells us it was Dionysius rus the 
Elder who was ‘ate 

exile to Corinth ; but the elder Diograts 
died in Syracuse, at the 


it was the Dionyat sinus ne “ 
dethroned by timoleon- and went te 


DISTAFF'’S DAY. 





257 





DIVINA COMMEDIA. 





up his boots on the branch of a tree, and 
dared any one to removethem. The king 
eut the boots down, and the gen 
cut the king down. Fusbos, coming up 
at this crisis, laid the Sales prostrate. 
At the close of the burlesque all the 
dead men gem. up and join the gg 
mising ‘‘to die again to-morrow,” i 
fre audience desires it.—W. B. Rhodes, 
Bombastes Furioso (1790). 
Bn iri 
Purioso te love to Distafina —K Sargent 
Distaff’s Day (St.), January 7; so 
called because the dl fie festivities 
terminate on ‘‘ Twelfth Day,” and on the 
day following the women used to return 
to their distaffs or daily occupations. 


*,* Also called Rock Day, because | 


*‘ rock ” is another name for a distaff. 


Distance. ‘’Tis distance lends en- 
chantment to the view.”—Campbell, 
Pleasures of Hope, i. (1799). 


Distressed Mother ( The), atragedy 
by Ambrose Philips (1712). 


widow of Hector. At the fall of Troy 
she and her son Asty’anax fell to the lot 
of Pyrrhus king of Epirus, Pyrrhus fell 
in love with her and wished to marry her, 
but she refused him. 
bassy from Greece, headed by Orestés, 
son of memnon, was sent to Epirus 
to demand the death of Astyanax, lest in 
smianhood he might seek to avenge his 
father’s death. Pyrrhus told Andro- 
maché he would protect her son, and 
defy all Greece, if she would consent to 
marry him; and she yielded. While the 
marnage rites were going on, the Greek 
ambassadors fell on Pyrrhus and mur- 
dered him. As he fell he placed the 
crown on the head of Andromaché 
who thus became queen of Epirus, and 
the Greeks hastened to their ships in 
flight. This play is an English adaptation 
of Racine’s romaque (1667). 

Ditchley (Gaffer), one of the miners 
employed by sir Geoffrey Peveril.—Sir 
W. Scott, Peversl of the Peak (time, 
Charles II.). 


Dithyrambic Poe Father o 
Arion of Lesbos (fl. B.c. 6). Le 


Ditton (Zhomas), footman of the 
Kev. Mr. Staunton, of Willingham Rec- 
tory.—Sir W. Scott, Heart of Midlothian 
(time, George I].). 


Divan (Zhe), the supreme council and | 


e ‘‘dis- | 
tressed mother” is Androm’aché, the | 


At length an em- | 





court of justice of the caliphs. The 
abbassides always sat in person in this 
court to aid in the redress of wrongs. It 
was called ‘‘a divan” from the benches 
covered with cushions on which the 
members sat.—D'Herbelot, Bidliothéque 
Orientale, 298. 


Dive [deev], a demon in Persian 
mythology. In the mogul’s at 
Lahore, there used to be sev: pictures 
of these dives (1 sy/.), with long horns, 
staring eyes, hair, great fangs, 
ugly paws, long tails, and other horrible 
deformities. remember seeing them 
exhibited at King’s College in one of the 
sorrées given there after the Indian 
Mutiny. 


Diver (Colonel), editor of the New 
York Rowdy Journal, in Aterica. His 
air was that of a man oppressed by a 
sense of his own greatness, and his 
physiognomy was a map of cunning and 
ore Dickens, Martin Chuzzlewit 
1844). 


Di'ves (2 syl.), the: name popularly 

given to the ‘‘rich man” in our Lord's 
rable of the rich man and Lazarus; in 
atin, Divés et Lazarus.— Luke xvi. 


Divide and Govern, a maxim of 
Machiavelli of Florence (1469-1527). 


Divi’na Comme’dia, the first poer. 
of note ever written in the Italian lan- 


| guage. It isan epic by Danté Alighie’ri, 
and is divided into three parts: Hel 
Purgatory, and Paradise. Danté call 


it 9 comedy, because the ending is happy ; 
and his countrymen added the word 
divine from admiration of the poem. The 
poet depicts a vision, in which he ia 
conducted, first by Virgil (Auman reason) 
through hell and purgatory; and then by 
Beatrice (revelation) and finauy oy St. 
Kemard through the several heavens, 
where he beholds the Triune God. 

‘‘Hell” is represented as a funnel- 
shaped hollow, formed of gradually con- 
tracting circles, the lowest and smallest 
of which is the earth's centre. (See IN- 
FERNO, 1300.) 

‘‘Purgatory” is a mountain risi 


| solitarily from the ocean on that side o 


the earth which is opposite to us. It is 
divided into terraces, and its top is the 
terrestrial paradise. (See Purcatory, 
1808.) 

From this “top” the poet ascends 
throrgh the seven planetary heavens, 
the fixed stare, and the “‘ primum mobile, 








DUCTORS OF THE CHURCH. 259 





The Divine Doctor, Jean Ruysbroek 
(1294-1881). 

arene (* 19% ate Doctor, Antonio An- 

The Ecstatic Doctor, Jean Ruysbroek 


(1294-1381). 
The Doctor, Peter Aureolus, 
archbishop of Aix (fourteenth century). 
The ical 


Doctor, J. Wy 
(1824-1384). 


The [iluminated Doctor, Raymond Lally 
(128571815), or Most Enlk htened Doctor. 
The Invincible Doctor, Willi Occam 


OTe | Trvgfragable Doctor, Al d 
Irre exander 
Fiales (*-1245). 

The Mellifiuous Doctor, St. Bernard 
(1691-1153). 

The Most Christian Doctor, Jean de 


Gerson (1863-1429). 
Most Methodical Doctor, John 


The 
Bassol seo Cri 347). 
rofound Doctor, Zgidius 
de Columee Cr 16) 
The Most Resolute Doctor, Durand de 
St. Pourwain (1267-1332). 
The Perspicuous Doctor, Walter Bur- 
lev (fourteenth century). 
“The Profound Doctor, Thomas Brad- 
wardine (*-1349). 
The Scholastic Doctor, Anselm of Laon 
(ge ALL). 


Seraphic Doctor, St. Bonaventura 


(1221-1274). 

The Singular Doctor, William Occam 
(1276-1347). 

The Solemn Doctor, Henry Goethals 


(1227-1293), 
om Solid Doctor, Richard Middleton 


HN 
tle Doctor, Duns Scotus (1265- 
1808), or Most Subtle Doctor. 

The Thorowjh Doctor, William Varro 


(thirteenth century). 
The Universal tor, Alain de Lille 


(1114-1203) ; Thomas Aquinas 1224-1274), 

The Venerable Doctor, illiam de 
Champeaux (*-1126). 

Well-founded Doctor, MEgidius 

Romanus (*-1316). 

The Wise Doctor, John Herman Wessel 
(1409-1489). 

The Wonderful Doctor, Roger Bacon 
(1214-1292). 


Doctors of the Church. The 
Greek Church recognizes four doctors, 
viz., St. Athanasius, St. Basil, St. Gregory 
of Nyssa, and St. John Chrysostom. 

The Latin Church recognizes St. Au- 
gus atin, St. Jerome, St. Ambrose, and 

t. Gregory the Great. 


DODONA. 


(For all other doctors, see under the 
proper name or nickname.) 


Doctor’s Tale (The), 
Can _Tales, is the Roman story of 
told in I given by Livy This sto 

in French in the Bi oman de la 
ii. 74, and by Gower in his Confessio 
Amantis, vii. Ithas furnished the mubject 
of a host of tragedies: for example, in 
French, Mairét (1628) ; Leclere 645) ; 
Campestron (1683); Chabanon 1769) 
Laharpe (1786) ; Latianede Guillet (17 
Guiraud (1827) ; Latour St. Ybars +1845)" 
In Jtalian, Alfieri (1784) ; in German, 
(ieea2 (1775) ; and in English, Knowles 

29). 

Doctor’s Wife (The), 
Miss Braddon, adapted 
Bovary, a French novel. 


Dodger (The Artful), the sobriquet 
of Jack Dawkins, an artful, thievish 
young scamp, in the boy crew of Fagin 
the Jew villain.—C. Dickens, Oliver Zwois8, 
viii. mee 


whom Thomson _ in- 
vein in his "Sumsner, i is George Bubb 
Dodington, lord Melcomb-Regis, a British 
statesman. Churchill and Pope ridiculed 
him, while Hogarth introduced him in 
his picture called the ‘‘ Orders of Peri- 
wigs.’ 

Dod'ipoll (Dr.), any man of weak 
intellect, a Fy dotard. Hence the proverb, 
Wise as Dr. Dodipoll, meaning “‘ not wise 
at all.” 


Dodman or Doddiman. A snail 
is so called in the eastern counties. 

I'ma regular dodman, | am,” said Mr. cee tty ty 
which he meant “ snall.”—C, Dickens, David Copper- 
Acid, vii, (1849). 

Doddiman, doddiman, put out your horns, 
For here comes a thief to steal your corns. 
Common Popular Ehyme in Novform 
Dodon or rather Dodoens (Ren- 
bert), a Dutch botanist (1517-15 86) phy- 
sician to the emperors Maximilian Ioan 
Rodolph IJ. His works are onan 
et Leguminum [istoris ; Florum Histeria ; 
Puryantium Rudicumet Herbarum Historia; 
Stirpium Historia; all included under 
the general title of ‘*The History of 
Plants.” 
Of these moet helpful herbs yet tell we but a few, 
To note unnumbered surts, of simples here that grew, 
hich justly to setdown een Dodon short doth fall. 
Drayton, Polyeldton, xlil. (1613). 
Dodo’na (in Epiros), famous for the 
most ancient oracle in Greece. The 
nses were made by an old woman 
called @ pigeon, because the Greek wosd 


in Chaucer's 


a novel by 
m Madame 





DOG. 261 








army. Aubri was murdered in the forest 
of Bondy by his friend, lieuvenant 
Macaire, in the same regiment. After its 
master’s death, the dog showed such a 
strange aversion to Macaire, that suspicion 


was aroused inst him. Some say he 
was pitted nst the dog, and confessed 
the’crime. ers say a sash was found 


on him, and the sword-knot was recog- 
nized by Ursulaas her own work and gift 
to Aubri. This Macaire then confessed 
the crime, and his accomplice, lieutenant 
Landry, trying to escape, .was seized by 
the dog and bitten to death. This story 
has been dramatized both in French and 


lish. 
a ae $; one was named “Arc- 
toph’onos” and the other ‘‘ Pto-ophagos.” 

Punch’s » Toby.” 

Sir W. Scott’s Dogs. His deer-hound 
was “‘ Maida.” His jet-black greyhound 
was “Hamlet.” He had also two Dandy 
Dinmont terriers. 

Doy of the Seven Sleepers, ‘‘ Katmir.” 
It spoke with a human voice. 

In Sleary's circus, the performing dog 
is called ‘“ Merryleys.”—C. Dickens, 
Hard Times. 

(For Actzon's fifty dogs, see Dictionary 
of Phrase and Fable, 234.) 


Dog. The famous mount St. Bernard 
dog which saved forty human beings, was 
named ‘ Barry.” The stuffed skin of 
this noble creature is preserved in the 
museum at Berne. 


Dog (The), Diogtnés the cynic (B.C. 
412-323), When Alexander encountered 
him, the young Macedonian king intro- 
duced himself with the words, ‘‘] am 
Alexander, surnamed ‘the Great.’” To 
which the philosopher replied, ‘‘ And I 
am Diogenés, surnamed ‘the Dog.’” The 
Athenians raised to his memory a pillar 
of Parian marble, surmounted with a dog, 
and bearing the following inscription :— 

“Bay dog, what suard in that tomb?” 

4dceg “His name?” Diogenés. ‘From far?” 

**He who made a tub his home?” 

The same; now dead, among the stars a star. 

Dog (The Thracian), Zo'ilus the gram- 
marian; socalled for his snarling, captious 
eriticisms on Homer, Plato, and Iso’cratés. 
He was contemporary with Philip of 

on, 


Dog’s Nose, gin and beer. 
Cold as a dog's nose. 


There sprung a fenk in Noab's ark, 
’ Which made the doy baxin to bark 3 
Noah took his nove to stup the hole, 
4ad hence his nose fy always onld. 
Metes and Queries, February 4 1871 





DOILEY. 


Dogs were supposed by the ancient 
Gaels to be sensible of their masters’ 
death, however far they might be sepa- 
rated. 
ate iis eat oe at i 

wling in ee * 
my fair-haired son, in 3 dismal wart"—Osien, 

Dogs. The two sisters of Zobei’dé (8 
syl.) were turned into little black dogs 
for casting Zobeidé and ‘‘the prince” into 
the sea. (See ZoBEIDE.) 


FOS of War, Famine, Sword, and 
ire. 


Then should the waritke . like himeesif, 
testes i boca a Pasi” Brod and Fr 
Crouch for employment. 

Shakespeare, King Henry Y.1 chores (1980). 


Dog-headed Tribes (of India) 


mentioned in the Italian romance of 
Gueri'no Meschi'no. 


Dog-rose (Greek, uno-rodon). Se 
called use it was supposed to cure the 
bite of mad dogs. 

A mors vero [i.¢. ef a mad dog) unicum remediam 
or tance] ¢ morrhodoe uppellatur Pile, tiae Net, 
vill 63; we aiso xxv. 6. is ” ata 

Dogbe and Verges, two ig- 
norant concerted constables who wreath 
muulate their words. Doyberry calle 
‘“ assembly ” dissembly ; ‘‘ treason” ne 
calls perjury; ‘‘calumny” he calls ber- 
glury ; “‘ condemnation,” redemption ; 
‘* respect,” suspect. When Conrade save, 
“‘ Away! you are an ass;" Dogberry tells 
the town clerk to write him down “aa 
ass.” ‘' Masters,” he says to the officials. 
“remember I am an ass.” “Oh that I 
had been writ down an ass!" (act iv. sc. 2). 


—Shakespeare, Afuch Ado Nothing 
(1600). 
Dogget, wardour at the castle of 


Garde Doloureuse.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Betrothed (time, Henry IJ.). 


Dogget’s Coat and Badge, the 
great prize in the Thames rowing-maich, 
given on the Ist of Augustevery year. So 
called from Thomas Dogget, an actor of 
Drury Lane, who siynalized the accession of 
George I. to the throne by giving annually 
a waterman’s coat and bade ‘o the 
winner of the race. The Fishmongers’ 
Company add a yuinea to the prize. 


Doiley (Abraham), « vitizen and ce- 
tired slop-seller. lie was a charity boy, 
wholly withuut education, but made 
£80,000 in trade, and is determined to have 
‘a larned skollard for his son-in-law.” 








DOLOPATOS. 38 
fellow, and having “ pumped" out of 
him all about the Trojan s, and the 


anche of Rhesus, Diomed smote him 
with his falchion on the mid-neck and 
slew him. This is the subject of bk. x. 
of the Jiiod, and therefore this book is 
called “Dolonia” (*‘‘the 
Dolon") or “ Déilophon'ia” (“* Dolon's 
murder "). 
Fall of conning, bike Uipeses’ whistle 
When be alors poor Dolo, 
Byron, Don Juan, xiii, 105 (1M), 

Dolopa'tos, the Sicilian king, who 
placed is son Lacien under the charge 
of ** seven wise masters.” When grown 
to man's estate, Lucien'’s step-mother 
made improper advances to him, which 
he repulsed, and she accused him to the 
king of insulting her. By astrology the 
prince discovered that if he could tide over 
weven days his life would be saved; so 
the wise masters amused the king with 
seven tales, and the king relented. The 
prince himself then told a tale which 
embodied his own history; the eyes of the 
king were opened, and the queen was con- 
demned to death.—Sandabar's Parables 
(French version). 


Dombey (Jfr.), a purse-proud, self- 
contained London merchant, living in 
Fortland Place, Brvanstone Square, with 
offices in the City. His god was wealth; 
and bis one ambition was to have a son, 
that the firm might be known as “ Dom- 
bey and Son.” When Paul was born, 
lus ambition was attained, his whole 
heart was in the boy, and the loss of the 
mother was but a small matter, The 
boy's death turned his heart to stone, 
and be treated his dauchter Florence not 
only with utter indifference, but as an 
actual interloper. Mr. Dombey married 
a second time, but bis wife eloped with 
his manager, James Carker, and the proud 
spint of the merchant was brought low, 

Paul Dombey, son of Mr. Dombey ; a 
delicate, sensitive little boy, quite un- 

ual tothe great things expected of him. 

e was sent to Dr. Blimber's school, but 
goon gave way under the strain uf school 
discipline. in his short life he won the 
love of all who knew him, and his sister 
Florence was especially attached to him, 
His death is beautifully told. During his 
last days he waa haunted by the sea, and 
was always wondering what the wild 
SAVES WEEE BAY Irie. 

Fiorence Dombey, Mr. Domber's 
daughter; ao preity, amiable, mother- 
leat child, who incurred ber father's 
hatred 


because «he lived and thrived | 


deeds of | 


| in fact, Thalaba 


| Catholic clergy ; 





' DOMINIE SAMPSON. 


| while her younger brothes Paul dwindled 
and died. Fiorence hungered to be 


loved, but her father had no love to 
bestow on her. She married Walter Gay, 
and when Mr. Dombey was broken 
spirit by the elopement of his second 
wate, as eee ig were the ayer 
of his o re.—L. Dic Dombey and 
Son (1846). or 
Dom-Daniel originally meant a 
ublic school for magic, established as 
‘unis ; but what is generally understood 
by the word is that immense establish- 


| ment, near Tunis, under the ‘roots of 


the ocean,” establiahed by Hal-il-Man’- 
graby, and completed by his son. Tuere 
were four entrances toit, each of which had 
a staircase of 4001) steps; and mayicians, 
gnomes, and sorcerers of every sort were 
expected to do homage there at least 
once o year to Zatanal Soar gl seen 
Daniel was utterly destroyed 

Habed-il- -Rouman, zon of the call h "of 
Syria.—Continwation of the Arabian Nights 
(‘* History of Mauyraby "). 

Southey has made the destruction of 
Dom-Daniel the subject of his Thulaba— 
takes the office of 
Habed-il-Rouman; but the general inci- 
dents of the two tales have no otber 
resemblance to each other. 


Domestic Poultry, in den's 
Hind and anther, mean the Roman 
so called from an estab- 
lishment of priests in the private chapel of 
Whitehall. The nuns are termed “ sister 
partlet with the hooded head ” (1687). 


Dominick, the ‘Spanish fryar,” a 
kind of ecclestastical Falstaff. A most 
immoral, licentious dominican, who for 
money would prostitute even the Church 
and Holy Scriptures. Dominick helped 
lorenzo in his amour with Elvi’ra the 
wife of Gromez. 


He Wb o hoge, fat, religie gen - tle 
fo be pope His gills ore oo galleprpyet piaee = 
big belly walks in state before Sim ees harbinger 
hla guoly leg: come Linping after Rk. Never was pial 
ton of devotion seen. — Dery The Spanish Fryer, iL. 8 


( Ltr). 

Dom'‘ine Stekan ion of 
Dominus tecum, ‘' the Lord thee”’). 
A witch, being asked how she contived ie 
kill all the children of a certain family 
infancy, replied, ‘‘ Easily enough. W a 
the infant sneezes, nobody says ‘ Domine 
stekan,' and then | become mistress of 
the child."—Kev. W. Webster, Basque 
Legends, 74 (1877), 


Dominie Samnson; his Christian 
name is Abel. He is the tutor at Ellan- 


weekly 








DONNERHUGEL. 


DORAX. 





the sound of the death-spectre, and fell 
lifeless in the arms of her lover. Presently 
the dead maiden received a supernatural 
vitality, but her cheeks were wan, her 
lips livid, her eyes lustreless, and her 
lap-dog howled when it saw her. Ehber- 
hard still resolved to marry her, and to 
a@hurch they went; but when he took 
Donica's hand into his own it was cold 
and clammy, the demon fied from her, 
und the body dropped a corpse at the feet 
ef the bridegroom.—R. Southey, Donica 
ia Finnish ballad). 


Donnerhu’gel {fudoiph), one of the 
Swies deputies to rles ‘‘the Bold,” 
duke of Burgundy. He is cousin of the 
sons of Arnold Biederman the landam- 
mans of Unterwalden (alias count Arnold 
of Geierstein). 

Theodore Donnerhugel, uncle of Ru- 
dolph. He was to the former baron 
of Arnheim [Arn.hime].—Sir W. Scott, 
Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Do’ny, Florimel’s dwarf.— Spenser, 
Faéry iii. 5 and iv. 2 (1590, 1596). 


Dongel del Fe'bo (£1), the knight 
of the sum a Spanish romance in the 

irror of Knighthood. He was ‘most 
excellently fair,” and a ‘‘great wanderer ;" 
hence he is alluded to as ‘‘that wander- 
ing knight so fair.” 


Doo'lin of Mayence (2 syl.), the 
hero and title of an old French romance 
of chivalry. He was ancestor of Osier 
the Dane. His sword was called Mar- 
veilleuse (*‘ wonderful’). 


Doomsday Se ick, William 
ck, a fanatical “‘ prophet” during 
the Commonwealth. He pretended that 
the time of doomsday had been revealed 
to him in a vision; and, going into the 
garden of sir Francis Russell, hedenounced 
8 party of gentlemen playing at bowls, 
and bade them prepare for the day of 
doom, which was at hand. 


Doorm, an earl who tried to make 
Enid his handmaid, and “ smote her on 
the cheek" because she would not wel- 
come him. Whereupon her husband, 
count Geraint, started up and slew 
the ‘‘russet-bearded earl.”—Tennyson, 
Gdylis of the Kiny (‘‘ Enid”). 


Door-Opener (The), Cratés, the 
Theban ; so called because he used to go 
ruund Athens early of a morning, and 
rebuke the people for their late rising. 

Dora [Bpenlow], a pretty, warm- 


12 


hearted little doll of a woman, with no 
practical views of the duties of life or the 
value of money. She was the ‘child- 
wife” of David Copperfield, and loved to 
sit by him and hold his pens while he 
wrote. She died; and David then mar- 
ried Agnes Wickfield. Dora's great pet 
was a dog called ‘‘Jip,” which died at the 
same time as its mistress.—C. Dickens, 
David Copperfield (1849). 

Dora'do (£1), a land of exhaustless 
wealth; a golden illusion. Orella’na, 
lieutenant of Pizarro, asserted that he had 
discovered a “ gold country " between the 
Orino’co and the Am/’azon, in South 
America. Sir Walter Raleigh twice visited 
Guia’na as the spot indicated, and pub- 
lished highly coloured accounts ite 
enormous wealth. 


Dorali’ce (4 sy!.), a lady beloved by 
Rodomont, but who married Mandri- 
cardo.—Ariosto, Orlando Furioso (1516). 


Dor’alis, the lady-love of Rodomont 
aing of Sarza or Algiers. She eloped 
with Mandricardo king of Tartary.— 
Bojardo, Orlando Innamorato (1495) ; and 
Ariosto, Orlando Furioso (1516). 


Dorante (2 sy/.), a name introduced 
into three of Molitre's comedies. In Les 
Facheux he is a courtier devoted to the 
chase (1661). In La Critique de Vécole des 
Femmes he is a chevalier (1662). In Le 
Bouryeois Gentilhomme he is a count in 
love with the marchioness Dorimtne 
(1670). . 


Doras'tus and Faunia, the heroand 
heroine of a popular romance by Robert 
Greene, published in 1588, under the title 
of Pandosto and the Triumph of Time. 
On this ‘‘ history” Shakespeare founded 
his Winter's Tale, 

Why, sir William, it is a romance, a novel, a pleasanter 
history by balf than the loves of Dorastus and nia, 
Is. Bickerstaff, Love in @ Village, itl, 1 

Dorax, the assumed name of don 
Alonzo of Alcazar, when he deserted 
Sebastian king of Portugal, turned rene- 
gade, and joined the emperor of Barbary. 

e cause of his desertion was that Sebas- 
tian gave to Henri’quez the lady betrothed 
to Alonzo. Her name was Violante 
(4 sy/.). The quarrel between Sebastian 
and Dorax is a masterly copy of the 
quarrel and reconciliation between Bratus 
and Cassius in Shakespeare's Julius Cesar. 

Like *‘ Dorax “in the pix. submitted, ‘* the’ with a 
swelling beart.”—Sir W. 

This quotation is not exact. It cccurs 
in the ‘‘quarrel.” Sebastian says to 


DORMER. 








| DDRRILLON. 





waa false and had married another, so 
she gave her hand to lord Davenant. 
anianne Dormer, sister of the cap- 
tain. She married lord Davenant, who 
called himself Mr. Brooke; but he forsook 
ber in three months, giving out that he 
was dead, Marianne, supposing herself 
to be a widow, married his lordship's son. 
—Cumberland, The Mysterious 
(1783). 


Dormer (Caroline), the orphan daughter 
of o London merchant, who was once er 
wealthy, but became bankrupt and died, 
leaving his daughter £200 8 year. This 
annuity, however, she loses through the 
knavery of her man of business, en 
reduced bo penury, her old lover, Henry 
Morland iwapgoeee to have perished at 
sea), Makes his ap v and marries 
her, by which she becomes the lady 
Duberly.—G. Colman, The Heir-at-Law 
(1797). 

Dornton (Mr.), a great banker, who 
adores his son Harry. He tries to be 
stem with him when he sees him 
going the road to ruin, but is melted by 
a kind word. 

Jomph Monden (1795-1539) wae the origina] repre- 
entative of “Old Dornton” and a bot of other characters 
=— Memelr (1202). 

Harry Dornton, son of the above. A 
noble-hearted fellow, spoilt by over- 
indulgence. He becomes a regular make, 
loses money at Newmarket, and goes 

ost-apeed the road to ruin, led on by 
Jack Milford. So great ia his extrava- 
gance, that his father becomes a bankrupt; 
but Sulky (his partner in the bank) comes 
to the resesce, Harry marries Sophia 


Freelove, and both father and son are | 


saved from ruin.—Holcroft, The Road to 
Ruin (1792). 
Dorober'’nia, Canterbury. 


Dorothe’a, of Andalusi'a, daughter 
of Cleonardo (an opulent vassal of the 
duke Ricardo). She was married to don 
Fernando, the duke'’s younger son, who 
deserted her for Lucinda (the daughter of 
an opulent gentleman), engaged to Car- 
denio, her equal in rank and fortune. 
When the wedding day arrived, Lucinda 
fell into & swoon, a letter informed the 
bridegroom that she was already married 
to Cardenio, and next day she took 
refuge inacenvent, Dorothea also left 
ber home, dressed in boy's clothes, and 
eoncealed herself in the Sierra Morena or 
Brown Mountain. Now, it so happened 
that Dorothea, Cardenio, and don Quixote's 
party happened to be staying at the Cres- 


tended by Angelo, an 


| affectionate and good-hearted, 





eent inn, and don Fernando, who had 
abducted Lucinda from the peavans, 
halted at the same place. Here he fo 

hia wife Dorothea, and Lucinda her 
husband Cardenio. All these misfortunes 
thus came to an end, and the parties mated 
with their respective spouses.—Cervantes, 
Don Quixote, I. iv. (1605), 


Dorothe'a, sister of Mons. Thomas,—- 
Beaumont and Fletcher, Jfons, Thomas 
(1619). 

Dorothea, the "virgin martyr," st» 

bl of fi ia sod $0 
semblance a page, first _to 
Dorothea as a | r-boy, to whom she 
ave alms.—Philip Massinger, The Virgin 

artyr (1622). 


Dorothe'a, the heroine of Goethe's 
entitled Hermann and Dorothea (1797). 


Dor’otheus (3 sy/.), the man who 


| spent all his life in endeavouring to eluci- 


date the meaning of one single word im 
Homer. 


Dor'othy (Old), the housekeeper of 
Simon Glover and his daughter “ the 
fair maid of Perth."—Sir W. Scott, Fair 
Maid of Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Dorothy, charwoman of Old Traphois 
the miser and his daughter Martha,—Sir 
W. Scott, Fortunes of Nigel (time, 
James I.), 

Dorrillon (Sir Wiliam), a rich 
Indian merchant and a widower. He had 
one pr placed under the care of 
Mr. and Miss Norberry. When this 


| daughter tt was grown to woman- 


hood, sir William returned to England, 
and wishing to learn the character of 
Maria, presented himself under the as- 
sumed name of Mr. Mandred. He found 
his gr gtd a fashionable young lady, 
fond of pleasure, dress, and play, but 
a wis 
enabled toextrcate her from some money 
difficulties, won her heart, revealed him- 
aarti Maris)” Dorvition des het. 

155 aru ud daughter of 
air Willis’ gRy, fashionable lig ht- 
hearted, highly accomplished, and very 
beautiful. ‘Brought up without # 
mother's care or father's cantion,” she 
had sume excuse for her wayward ess 
and frivolity. Sir George Evelyn was 
her admirer, whom for a time ahe teased 
to the very top of her bent; then ahe 
married, loved, and reformed.—Mrs. 
Inchbald, Wives as they Were and Maids 
as they Are (1797). 


DOUGLAS. 260 


natural aon of “The Good sir James” 
{died *). 

Tie Black Douglas, William lord of 
Nithsdale (murdered by the earl of Clif- 
ford, 1890). 

Tineman (the loser), Archibald fourth 
earl, who lost the battles of Homildon, 
Shrewsbury, and Verneuil, in the last of 
which he was killed (1424). 

William Douglas, eighth earl, stabbed 
by James I],, and then despatched with a 
battle-axe by sir Patrick Gray, at Stirling, 
February 13, 1459. Sir Walter Scott 
alludes to this in Zhe Lady of the Lake. 

James Douglas, ninth ond last earl 
taied 1488). With him the senior branch 


oses. 
Il, Tae Rep Doverases, a collateral 
branch. 


Beil-the-Cat, the great earl of Angus. 
He is introduced by Scott in dfarmion. 


His two sons fell in the battle of Flod- | 


den Field. Iledied in a monastery, 1514. 
Archibald Douglas, sixth earl of 


Angus, and grandson of “ Rell-the-Cat." | 


James Bothwell, one of the family, forms 
the most interesting part of Scott's Lady 
ofthe Leke. Ile was the prandfather of 
Darnley, husband of Mary queen of 
Seote, He died 1460, 

James Donglas, earl of Morton, 
younger brother of the seventh earl of 
Angus. He took port in the murder of 
Kizzio, and was executed by the instru- 
ment called “*the maiden” (1530-1581), 

The “lack Douylas,” introduced by 
ar W. Seott in Cusfle Dungerous, 1 
“The Gud schyrJames.” This wasalso the 


Db iu | ic | i} or 4 | 
nonres which was such a terror to the | «Good sir James” Douglas, in 1304, took 


| his castle by a comp de main from the 


English that the women used tu fnghten 
their unruly children by saving they 
would “make the Black Douvlas take 
them.” He first appears in Custle Dan- 
qeroua as “ Knight of the Tomb.” 
following nursery rhyme refers to him :— 

Hush ys, bush pe, little pet ye; 

Hiuel ye Inde ye, hs Gk Ire yey 


The Busch (+ glss shall not pet then 
Bir 'W. Bout, Fad; of a dromd faker, |. 


Douglas, a tragedy by J. Home (1757). 
Young Norval, having saved the life of 
lord Randolph, ia given a commission 
in the army. Lady Randolph heara of 
the exploit, and discovers that the youth 
is her own aon by her first husband, lord 
1) vuprlas, 


his wife is too intimate with the young 
upetart, and the two surprise them in 
familiar intercourse ip 


and wife of prince Robert duke of Rot 


The | 


ilenalvon, who hates the new | 
favourite, persuades lord Randolph that | 





weed. The | 





DOULOUREUSE GARD 


ath, being attacked, slays Glenalvon; 

ut is in turn slain by lord Randolph, 
who then learns that the young man was 
lady Randolph's son. Lady Thandolp 
in distraction, rushes up a precipice 
ele gers oe gear and lord 
Kiandolph goes to the war then raging 
between Scotland and Denmark, mae 

Douglas (Archibald earl of), father-in- 
law of prince Robert, eldest son of 
Robert III. of Scotland, 

Maryery of Douglas, the earl's daughter, 


¥ 





say. The duke was betrothed to Eliza- 
beth danghter of the earl of March, but 
the engagement was broken off by in- 
trigue.—Sir W. Scott, Fuir Maid of Perth 
(time, Henry IV.). 

Douglas (¢ ), nephew of the re 
gent Murray of tland, and grandson 
of the lady of Lechleven. George Doug- 
las was devoted to Mary queen of Scots. 
—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Abbot (time, Eliza- 
beth). 

Douglasand the Bloody Heart. 
The heart of Bruce was entrusted to 
Douglas to carry to Jerusalem, Landing 
in Spain, he stopped to aid the Cas- 
tilians against the Moors, and in the heat 
of battle cast the “ heart,” enshrined in a 
golden coffer, into the very thickest of 
the foe, saying, ‘* The beart or death!" 
On he dashed, fearless of danger, to 
reyain the coffer, but perished in the 
attempt. The family thenceforth adopted 
the “bloody heart” as their armorial 
device, 


Douglas Larder Sbeag When tne 


English, be caused all the barrels con- 
taining flour, meal, wheat, and malt to 
be knocked in pieces and their contents 
to be thrown on the floor; be then staved 
in all the hoysheads of wine and ale upon 
this mass. To this he flung the dead 
bodies slain and some dead horses. The 


| English called this disgusting mess “‘ The 
| Douglas Larder.” 


He then set fire to the 


eastle and took refuge in the hills, for he 
said ‘* he loved far better to hear the lark 
sing than the mouse cheep.” 

*," Wallace's Larder is a similas 


phrase, It is the dungeon of Ardrossan 
m Ayrshire, where Wallace had the dend 
bodies of the garrison thrown, surprised 
by him in the reign of Ecward I. 
Douloureuse Garde (La), a castle 
in Herwick-upon-Tweed, won by sit 


ee ee 


DRAGON. — 


271 





DRAPIER’S LETTERS. 





dragons to be made, one of which he 


eee aw 
that eonea the oe Bavition of the king. 
Dragon (The), one of the masques 
at Kennaquhair “Abbey.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Abbot (time, Elizabeth) 


(The Red), the personification 
of ‘the devil,” as the enemy of man. 


—Phineas Fletcher, The Purple Island, 


Dragon of Wantley (i.¢. Warn- 
cliff, in Yorkshire), a okt on the old 
metrical romances, especially on the old 
rhyming legend of sir is. The ballad 
describes dragon, its out the 
flight of the inhabitants, the knight 
choosing his armour, the damsel, the 
fight, and the victory. The hero is called 
‘“* More, of More Hall” (g.v.).—Percy, 
Relques, Hil. iii. 13. 

(H. Carey has a burlesque called The 
Dragon of Wantley, and calls the hero 
‘* Moore, of Moore Hall,” 1697-1743.) 


Dragon’s Hill (Berkshire). The 
I d says it is here that St. George 
killed the dragon; but the place as- 
signed for this achievement in the ballad 
iven in Percy's Reliques is ‘“‘Sylcné, in 
Fibya.” Another legend gives Berytus 
( Beyrat) as the place of this encounter. 
(In regard to Dragon Hill, according 
to Saxon annals, it was here that Cedric 
founder of the West Saxons) slew 
aud the pendragon, with 5000 men.) 


Dragon’s Teeth. The tale of Jason 
and Actés is a repetition of that of 
Cadmus. 

In the tale of Capwus, we are told 
the fountain of Arei’a (3 sy/.) was 

ed by a fierce dragon. Cadmus 
illed the dragon, and sowed its teeth in 
the earth. From these teeth sprang up 
armed men called * Sparti,” among whom 
he fi stones, and the an.ed men fell 
foul of each other, till all were slain 
excepting five. 

In the tale of Jasom, we are told 
that having slain the dragon which kept 
watch over the golden fleece, he sowed its 
teeth in the ground, and armed men 
sprang up. Jason cast a stone into the 
midst of them, whereupon the men at- 
tacked each other, and were all slain. 


ns. 
AHRIMAN, the dragon slain by Mithra. 
—Persian Mythology. y 
Danak, the three-headed dragon slain 


Drago 


by Thraetana-Yacna.— Persian. 
Farnir, the n slain by Sigurd. 
GRENDEL, the n slain by Beo- 


wulf, the Anglo-Saxon hero. 

La GARGOUILLE, the dragon which 
ravaged the Seine, slain by St. Romain 
of prouen- ch 

HON, the dragon slain by Apollo. 
Tcteete 2 oi), th _mges sin 
ABRASQUE (2 syl. e m slain at 
Aix-la-Chav alle by St. Martha. 

ZOHAK, we dragon slain by Feridun 
(Shahnameh). 

*,* Numerous dragons have no i 
name. Many are denoted Red, ite, 
Black, Great, etc. 


Drama. The earliest European 
drama since the fall of the Western 
cmpire appeared in the middle of the 
fifteenth century. It is called La Celes- 
tina, and is divided into twenty-one acta. 
The first act, which runs through fifty 
pages, was composed by Rodrigo Cota; 
the other twenty are ascribed to Fernando 
de Rojas. The whole was published in 
1510. 

The earliest English drama is entitled 
reaiph Roister Doister, a comedy by 
Nicholas Udal (before 1551, because men- 
tioned by T. Wilson, in his Rule of Reason, 
which appeared in 1551). 

The second English drama was Gammer 
Gurtun’s Needie, by Mr. S. Master of 
Arts. Warton, in his History of English 
Poetry (iv. 32), gives 1551 as the date of 
this comedy ; and Wright, in his Historia 
Histrionica, says it appeared in the rei 
of Edward v1, who died 1553, It is 
generally ascribed to bishop Still, but he 
was only eight years old in 1551. 


Drama (Father of the French), Etienne 
Jodelle (1532-1573). 

Father of the Greek Drama, Thespis 
(B.c. sixth century). 

Father of the Spanish Drama, Lopé de 
Vega (1562-1635). 


Drap, one of queen Mab’s maids of 
honour.—Drayton, Nymphidia. 


Dra’pier’s Letters, a series of 
letters written by dean Swift, and signed 
‘““M. D. Drapier,” advising the Irish not to 
take the copper money coined by William 
Wood, to whom George 1. had given a 
patent. These letters (1724) stamped out 
this infamous job, and caused the patent 


DROPPING WELL. 


by a transparent watery humour distilling 
on the optic nerve. It caused total blind- 
neaa, but made no visible change in the 

e. It is now known that this sort of 
blindness arises from obstruction in the 
capillary nerve-vessels, and in some cases 
at least ie curable. Milton, speaking of 
his own blindness, expresses a doubt 
whether it arose from the Gutta Serena or 
the suffusion of a cataract. 

8o thick a “ drop serene” hath quenched thelr orbs, 

Or dim “ suffusion " veiled. 

Milton, Paradise Lost, ill, 25 (1665). 

Dropp Well, near the Nyde, 

yore 
Well” it call, 


-.. men * ft 
Fecwase out of « tock vaail in drope doth “23 7 
ear to foot whereof it makes a le pon (depository 
Which in as little space converteth wood to stone. 


Drayton, Potyoldiun, xxvill. (1683). 
Drudgeit Peter), clerk to lord 
Bladderskate.—Sir W. Scott, Hedgauntlet 
‘time, George III.). 


Drugger (Abel), a seller of tobacco ; 
artless si ible in the extreme. He 
was building a new house, and came to 
Subtle “the alchemist,” to know on which 
side to set the shop door, how to dispose 
the shelves so as to ensure most luck, on 
what days he might trust his customers, 
and when it would be unlucky for him so 
to do.—Ben Jonson, The Alchemist (1610). 

Thomas Weston was “* Abel ” himself [1727- 
1776} but David Garrick was fond of the part also (1716- 
1779, —C. Dibdin, Mistury uf the Stage. 

(This comedy was cut down into a 
two-act farce, called The Tubacconist, by 
Francie Gentleman.) 


Drugget, a rich London haberdasher, 
who has married one of his dauyhters to 
sir Charles Racket. Drugget is “ very 
fond of his garden," but his taste goes uo 
further than a suburban tea-garden, with 
leaden images, cockney fountains, trees 
cut into the shapes of animals, and other 
similar abominations. He is very head- 
rung, very passionate, and very fond of 


ttery. 

Mfrs. Druqget, wife of the above. She 
hnows her husband's foibles, and, like a 
wise woman, never rubs the hair the 
wrong way.—A. Murphy, Zhree Weeks 
after Marriage. 

Druid (The), the nom de plume of 
Henry Dixon, sportsman and sporting 
writer. 
chasing, appeared in the Gentleman's 
Majazine, His last work was called 
The Sadd'!e and Surivin. 

*.* Collins calls James Thomson 
(azthor of Zhe Seusons) a druid, mean- 








273 


One of his books, called Steeple- ; 





—, 


DRUNKEN PARLIAMENT. 


ing a pastoral British poet or “ Nature's 
High Priest.” 
In yonder Druid Hes, 
onree Collins (0748). 


Druid (Dr.), a man of North Wales, 
6! wo of age, the travelling tutor of 
lord Abberville, who was only 23. The 
doctor is a pedant and antiquary, choleric 
in temper, and immensely bigoted, wholly 
without any knowledge of the human 
heart, or indeed any practica]) knowledge 
at all. 


‘‘Money and trade, I scorn ‘em both; ...I have 
Pend the Ores and the Fo traversed the Riphran 
Mountains, and pierced into the Inmost tesarts of Kiloue 


fruf 
with such a catalogue of pata, cles, ta, scorpions, 
sss eBintm ona s reais 
contreniplation indeed to a mind 1™ 
land, The Fashionable Lover (1780 


Druid Money, 8 promise to pay on 
the Greek Kalends. Patricius says: 
‘¢ Druide pecuniam mutuo accipiebant in 
posteriore vita reddituri.” 

Like money by the Druids borrowed, 


In th’ other world to be restoréd. 
Butler, Hudibras, ili. 1 (1676). 


| 


*,* Purchas tells us of certain priests 
of Pekin, ‘who barter with the people 
upon bills of exchange, to be paid in 
heaven a hundredfold."—Pugrims, iii. 2. 


Drum (Jack). Jack Drum's entertain~ 
ment is giving a guest the cold shoulder. 
Shakespeare calis it ‘‘John Drum's 
entertainment” (All's Well, etc., act iii. ac. 
6), and Holinshed speaks of ‘‘Tom Drum 
his entertaynement, which is to hale a 
man in by the heade, and thrust him out 
by both the shoulders.” 

In faith, gentlemen, I think we shall be forcea te 
give you right John Drui's entertainment —latroduction 
to Juck Drum's Entertainment (1601). 

Drummle (Bentley) and Startop, 
two young men who read with Mr. 
Pocket. Drummle was a surly, il- 
conditioned fellow, who married Estella. 
—C. Dickens, Great Expectations (1860). 


Drunk. The seven phases of drunken- 
mess are: (1) Ape-drunk, when men 
make fools of themselves in their cups; 
(2) Lion-drunk, when men want to fight 
with every one; (3) Swine-drunk, when 
men puke, etc. ; (4) Sleep-drunk, when 
men get heavy and sleepy in their cupe ; 
(5) Martin-drunk, when men become 
boastful in their cups; (6) Goat-drunk, 
when men become amorous; (7) Fox- 
drunk, when men become crafty in thets 


cups. 
Drunken Parliament, s Scotch 


r 


—~— aa 


wTOennmPr0 SS... 
eee SET ee, oe. 


oer =a 


DUCHESS STREET. 





leaving David his successor. ‘Jenrysnn 


introduces him in hia Coming of Artéur, 
Ena, etc. 
Be Dubric, whease report old Garlenn yet doth carry, 
Drayton, #olyoltion, xxiv. (1629). 


To whom arrived, by Dubric the high ralnt, 

Colef of the Chorch in Brivaln, aod before 

The statelies! of her altarahrines, the king 

Theat mara wes married, 

Tenoysou, The Coming of Arter, 
Duchess Street (Portman Square). 

So called from & iret duchess of Port- 
land. (See DuKE STREET.) 


Ducho'mar was in love with Morna, 
daughter of Cormac king of Ireland. 
Out of jealousy, he slew Cathba, his more 
wuceessful rival, went to announce hia 
death to Morna, and then asked her to 
marry him. She replied she had no love 
for him, and asked him for his sword. 
“He gave the sword to ber tears,” and 
she stabbed him to the heart. Duchimar 
begged the maiden to pluck the sword 
from his breast that he might die; and 
when she approached him for the pur- 
pose, “he seized the sword from her, and 
slew her.” 

* [eechfonar, cnet | of man; dark are thy brows 
and terrible; red are th ve som eos T lowe thee 
not.” auld Marna; * har ts thy beast of roc, and dark 
Me thy territile brow."—Oselan, L 

Duchran (The laird of), a friend of 
baron Bradwardine,—Sir W. Scott, Wa- 
verley (time, George II.). 

Ducking-Pond Row (London), 
now called “ Grafton Street." 


Duck Lape (London), a row near 
Smithfield, once famous for second-hand 
books. It has given way to city improve- 
ments. 

Geotistes amd Thomists now in peace remain, 
Amidat thelr tindred cobwebs [io Duck Lane. 
Pope, Amoy ow Crindoiwrn (TL). 

Du Croisy and his friend La Grange 
are desirous to marry two young ladies 
whose heads are turned by novels. The 
silly girls fancy the manners of these 
gentlemen too unaffected and easy to be 
aristocratic; so the gentlemen send to 
them their valets, os "‘ the viscount de Jo- 
delet,” and “‘the marquis of Mascarille.” 
The girls are delighted with their titled 
visitors; but when the game has gone 
far enough, the masters enter and unmask 
the trick. Ky this means the girls are 
taught a useful lesson, without being 
subjected to any fatal consequences,— 
Molitre, Les Précwuses Ridicules (1659). 


Dudley, a young artist; a disyruise 
ageume. by Harry Kertram.—sir W. 


Beott, Guy Mannering (time, George II.). | 


275 





DUENNA, 


Dudley (Captain), a poor 
officer, of strict honour, good 
and many accomplishments. 
served his country for thirty y 
can scarcely provide bread for hi 

Charles Dridiey, son of captain 
sHigh-oeinded, virtuous, genero 
and proud. He falls in love 
cousin Charlotte Rusport, but 
proposing to her, because he is 
she is rich. His dfather’s 1 
time brought to light, by whic 
comes the heir of a noble fortun 
then marries his cousin. 

aouisa Dudley, daughter of 
Dudley. Young, fair, tall, fr 
lovely. She is courted by Be' 
rich West Indi to whom u 
she is married.—Cumberland, 1 
Indian (1771). 


Dudley Diamond (The 





: ). 
a black shepherd named S: 


brought to his master, Nie K 
diamond, and received for it £ 
which he drank himself to des 
Kirk sold it for £12,000; and 
of Dudley gave Messrs. Hunt 1 
kell £30,000 for it. It weighe 
rough 88} carats, but cut into 
at weighs 441 carats. : 

in shape, and of great b: 
ee This magnificent diamo 
called the ‘‘Stewart” (q.v.), 
‘*Twin,” have all been disco 
Africa since 1868. 


Dudu, one of the three be 
the harem, into which Juan, 
sultana’s order, had been adn 


| female attire. Next day, the sul 


of Jealousy, ordered that both I 


| Juan should be stitched in a |: 


cast Into the sea; but, by the co 
of Baba the chief eunuch, they 
their escape.—Byron, Don Juan 
etc. 


Duenna (The), a comic ¢ 
R. B. Sheridan (1773). Marg 
duenna, is placed in charge of 
the daughter of don Jerome. | 
in love with don Antonio, a po 
man of Seville; but her father 
to give her in marriage to Isa 
doza, a rich Portuguese Jew. A 
will not consent to her father’s 
ment, he locks her up in her 





+ ee 


DUKE COMBE. 








** Sforza” is Othello; ‘* Francesco,” 
3; ‘*Marcelia,” Desdemona; and 
‘* Eagenia,” Emilia, Sforze ‘the More” 
js} doted on Marcelia his young 
ride, who amply returned his love. 
Francesco, Sforza’s favourite, being left 
lord protector of Milan during a tem- 
porary absence of the duke, tried to 
corrupt Marcelia; but failing in this, 
accused her to Sforza of wantonness. 
The duke, believing his favourite, slew 
his beautiful young bride. The cause of 
Francesco's villainy was that the duke 
had seduced his sister Eugenia. 
*,* Shakespeare’s play was produced 
1611, about eleven years before Massin- 
rs tragedy. In act v. 1 we have, 
‘Men's injuries we write in brass,” 
which brings to mind Shakespeare's line, 
** Men's evil manners live in brass, their 
virtues we write in water.” 
(Cumberland reproduced this drama, 
with some alterations, in 1780.) 


Duke Combe, William Combe, 
author of Dr. Syntar, and translator of 
The Devil upon Two Sticks, from Le Diable 
Boiteur of Lesage. He was called duke 
from the splendour of his dress, the pro- 
fusion of his table, and the magnificence 
of his deportment. The last fifteen vears 
of his life were spent in the King’s Bench 
(1743-1823). 


Duke Street (Portman Square, 
London). So called from William Bentick, 
second duke of Portland. (Sce DucHxas 
STREET.) 


Duke Street (Strand, London). So 
uamed from George Villiers, duke of 
Buckingham, 

For other dukes, see the surname or 
titular name.) 


Duke’s, a fashionable theatre in the 
reign of Charles IJ. It was in Portugal 
Street, Lincoln’s Inn Fields. So named 
in compliment to James duke of York 
(James I1.), its great patron. 


Duleama’ra (Dr.), an _ 

hysician, noted for his pomposity ; very 

Poastful, and a thorough charlatan.— 
Donizetti, ZL’ Elisire d Amure (1832). 


Dulcarnon. (Sce Duvu’t Karnein.) 


Dulcifiuous Doctor, Antony An- 
dreas, a Spanish minorite of the Duns 
Scotus school (*-1320). 


Dulcin’ea del Tobo’so, the lady 
of don Quixote’s devotion. She was 
a fresh-coloured country wench, of ap 


itinerant 





277 


DUMARIN. 





adjacent village, with whom the don was 


once in love. Her real name was Al- 
donza Lorenzo. Her father was Lorenzo 
Corchuelo, and her mother Aldonza 
Nogalés. Sancho Panza describes her in 
t. I. ii, 11.—Cervantes, Don Quixote 
. i. 1 (1605). 

** Her flowing bair,” 
head Elystan flelds, 


¢ 


the knight. °'ls of Ler 
ni weet 


anpow. 
She is not a descendant of the ancient-Cali, Curtil, and 
Sciplus of Rome; nor of the modern Colonas and Orsia! 
nor of the Moncadas and Reyucsenes of Catalonia; nor 
the Rebillas and Villanovas of Valencia; neither {s she » 
descendant of the Palafoxes, Newras, Rocabertis, 

Lunas, Alagones, Ureas, Fores, and Gurreas of Aragon; 
neither does the nea from the Cerdas, 
Manriquez, Mendozas, and Castille; nor from 
the Alencastros, and Menezes of Portugal; bat che 
derives her origin from the fainlly ef Tobouo dela Mancha, 
most [tinetrious of all.”"—Cervantes, Don Quicote, L i. 5 
(1 


Ask for whom my tears do flow ao? 
Tis for Dulcinea del foboeo. 
Don Quixote, I it, 11 (605). 


Dull, aconstable-—Shakespeare, Love's 
Labour's Lost (1594). 


Du’machus. The impenitent thief is 
so called in Longfellow’s Golden Legend, 
and the penitent thief is called Titus. 

In the apocryphal Gospel of Nicode- 
mus, the impenitent thief is called Gestas, 
and the penitent one Dysmas. 

In the story of Juseph of Arimathea, the 
impenitent thief is called Gesmas, and the 
penitent one Dismas. 

Alta petit Dianas, Infellx infima Geamas. 
4 Monkish Churm to Scare away Thieves, 


Dismas In paradise would dweil, 
But Geamas chose bis lot in bell. 


Dumain, a French lord in attendance 
on Ferdinand king of Navarre. He 
agreed to spend three years with the king 
in study, during which time no woman 
was to approach the court. Of course, the 
compact was broken as soon as made, and 
Dumain fell in love with Katharine. 
When, however, he proposed marriage, 
Katharine deferred her answer for tweive 
months and a day, hoping by that time 
‘“ his face would more bearded,” for, 
she said, ‘I'll mark no words that 
smooth-faced wooers say.” 

The young Dumain, a well-accomplished youth, 
Of all that virtue love for virtue loved ; 

Most power to do most harm, least knowing fll 5 
For he hath wit to make an 10 shape good, 


And shape to win grace, tho’ he had no wit, 
Shakespeare, Love's Labowr’s Lost, act ti. ov. 1 (}004). 


Du’marin, the husband of Cym’oent, 
and father of Marinel.—Spenser, Fairy 


Queen, ti. 4. 


DUNDAS. 279 





The 
oet-laureate 


himeelf upon his literary enemies. 
lot is this: Eusden the 
dead, the goddess of Dulness elects 
Colley Cibber as his successor. The in- 
stallation is celebrated by games, the 
most important being the ‘‘reading of 
two voluminous works, one in verse and 
the other in prose, withont nodding.” 
King Gi Cibber is then taken to the temple 
ulness, and lulled to sleep on the 
lap of the goddess. In his dream he sees 
the triumphs of the empire. Finally, the 
goddess having established the kingdom 
en s firm basis, Night and Chaos are 
restored, and the poem ends (1728-42). 


Dundas (Starvation), Henry Dundas, 
first lord Melville. So called because he 
introduced into the language the word 

starvation, in a speech on American 
affairs (1775). 


Dunder (Sr David), of Dunder Hall, 
near Dover. An hospitable, conceited, 
whimsical old gentleman, who for over 
interrupts a speaker with ‘Yes, yes 
know it,” or ‘* Be quiet, I know it.’ e 
rately finishes a sentence, but runs on in 
this style: ‘‘ Dover is an odd sort of a— 

eh?” ‘It is a dingy kind of a—humph !” 
“ The ladies will be happy to—eh?"” He 
is the father of two hters, Harriet 
and Kitty, whom he accidentally detects 
in the act of eloping with two guests. 
To prevent a scandal, he sanctions the 
marriages, and discovers that the two 
lovers, both in family and fortune, are 
suitable sons-in-law. 

Lady Dunder, fat, fair, and forty if 
not more. A country lady, more fond of 
making jams and pastry than doing the 
fine lady. She prefers cooking to cro- 
quet, and making the kettle sing to sing- 

herself. (See HARRIET and Kitty.) 
- Colman, Ways and Means (1788). 
iam Dowton [1764-1851] played * sir Anthony Abso- 
tute.” ‘air Peter Teale,” “and “sir 
Jubn Falstaff,” and looked tie Dar hecctars he epee 
sented.—W. Donakison, Recollections. 

*,* “Sir Anthony Absolute,” in The 
Rivals hel for 8 ‘‘air Peter Teazle,” 
in The or Scandal (Sheridan). 


Dundreavy (Lord), a good-natured, 
indolen binadering, empty -headed 
swell; the chief character in Tom Tay- 
lor's dramatic piece entitled Our Ameri- 
can Cmsin. He is greatly characterized 
by his admiration of ‘‘ Brother Sam,” for 
Lis incapacity to follow out the sequence 
of any train of thought, and for supposing 
all are insane who differ from h 

(Mr. Sothern of the Hay market created 








——~,, <p 


DUNS SCOTUS. 


this character by his pcwer of conceptian 
and the genius of his acting.) 
Duned’in (8 syl.), Edinburgh. 
her firm-est rock 
Denia cat fll a meret shock 
Byron, English Bards und Sceteh Reviewers (1808). 


Dunlathmon, the family seat of 
Nutt, father of Oithona (q.v.).—Ossian, 


Dunmow Flitch (The), given to 
any married couple who, at the close of 
the first year of their marriage, can take 
their oath they have never once wished 
themselves unmarried again. Dr. Short 
sent a gammon to the princess Charlotte 
and her consort, prince Leopold, while 
they were at Claremont House. 

*,* A similar custom is observed at th 
manor of Wichenor, in Staffordshire, 
where corn as well as bacon is given tc 
the ‘ happy pair. 

(For a list of those who have received 
the flitch from its establishment, see 
Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, 251. 


Dunois (The count de), in sir W. 
Scott’s novel of Quentin Durward (time, 
Edward IV.). 


Dunois the Brave, hero of the 
famous French song, set to music by 
queen Hortense, mo er of Na leon HII., 
and called Partant His 
prayer to the Virgin, when he | left for 

yria, was: 

qe Salme la pius belle, 
t sols le plus vaillant. 
He behaved with t valour, and the 
count whom he followed gave him his 
daughter to wife. The guests, on the 
bridal day, all cried aloud : 
Amour A la plus belle! 


Dun’over, a poor gentleman intro- 
duced by sir W. Scott in the introduction 
of The Heart of Midlothian (time, George 


Dunrommath, lord of Uthal, one 
of the Orkneys. He carried off Oith’ona, 
daughter of “Nuath (who was en to 
be married to Gaul, son of Morvi), and 
was slain by Gaul in fight. 

Gaul advanced in his arms. Dunrommat: shrunk be- 


ploomy ebb bie is eword lopped ef his bed ai bead 

Duns ns Bootus, called ‘‘ The Subtle 
Doctor,” said to have been born at Duuse, 
in Berwickshire, or Dunstance, in North- 


we srland (1265-1308). 
* John Scotus, called Zrigéne 





re 


DURWARD. 


*,* Charlemagne’s sword “ Joyeuse' 
was also buried with him, and “ Tizo'na”™ 
was buried with the Cid. 

Duroti'ges (4 sy/.). Below the 
Hedui (those of Somersetshire) came the 
Durotigés, sometimes called Moér’ini. 
Their capital was Du’rinum (Dorchester), 
and their territory extended to Vindél’ia 
(Portland Isle).—Richard of Cirencester, 
Ancient State of Britain, vi. 15. 

a PE raion bed Ppotyolbion, 2¥4 (169). 

Durward (Quentin), hero and title 
of a novel by sir W. Scott. Quentin 
Durward is the nephew of Ludovic Lesly 
(sumamed Le Balafre). He enrolls him- 
eelf in the Scottish guard, a company 
of archers in the pay of Louis Xi. at 
Plessis lcs Tours, and saves the king in 
a boar-hunt. When Lidge is assaulted 











by insurgents, Quentin Durward and the | 


countess Isabelle de Croye escaje on 


horseback. The countess publicly refuses | 


to marry the duc d'Orléans, and ultimately 
marries the young Scotchman. 


Dusronnal, one of the two steeds | 


of Cuthullin general of the Irish trilies, 
The other was ‘‘ Sulin-Sifadda ” (q.0.). 


Before the left side of the car ts seen the snorting | 


borse. 
Geet, bounding sun of the hill. His name is Dusronnal, 
emong the stormy sons of the sword . . . the (twa! ifm ili 


The thin-maned, high-headed, strong: himfr, 


Hike wreaths of nist fly over the vales, The wild of 


deer ts in their course, the strength of eagics 
on the prey. Fingal, 1. 

Dutch School of painting, noted 
for its exactness of detail and trutliful- 
ness to life :— 


descend lig 


For portraits; Rembrandt, Bol, Flinck, | 


Hals, and Vanderhelst. 
e For conrersation 
keg tin Mieris, and Netschier. 


For life: Ostard, Bower, and Jan | 


Steen. 

For landscapes: Ruysdael, Hobbima, 
Cuyp, Vanderneer (mvonlwht sccnes), 
Berchem. and A. Both. 

For battie scenes: Wouvermans and 
Huchtenburg. 

For marine pieces: Vandevelde and 
aaron att ife and flowers : Kalf 

or stil life 3: Kalf, A. van 
Utrecht, Van Huysum, and De Heem. 


Dutton (Hrs. Dolly), dairy-maid to 
the duke of Argyll.—Sir W. Scott, Heart 
of Midivthian (time, George IT.). 

Dwarf. The following are cele- 
brated dwarfs of reai life :— 

ANDROMEDA, 2 feet 4 inches. 
éulia's free maids. 

Anistr<tus, the poet. 


One of 


“So small,” 





teces: Gerhard Douw, | 








DWARF. 





ore Athenseos, “that no one could see 
m.” 

Bese (2 syl.), 2 feet 9 inches, The 
dwarf of Stanislas king of Poland (died 
174). 

Boruw ask: (Count Joseph), 2 feet 
4 inches, Died aged 98 (1789-1887), 
He had a brother and ao sister both 
dwarfs, 

Bucnuincer (Matthew), who had no 
arms or legs, but fins from the shoulders, 
He could draw, write, thread needle 
and play the hanutboy. Fac-similes o 
his writing are preserved among the 
Harleian MSS. (born 1674"), 

Cuuxe, recently exhibited with Chang 
the giant. 

Co.o'nr: (Prince), of Sleawig, 55 
inches ; weight, 25 lbs. (1851). , 

Coxoras, 2 feet 4 inches. One of the 
dwarfs of Julia, mece of Augustus. 

Corrruntis, the dwarf of the princess 
of Wales, mother of George III, The 
last court-dwarf in England, 

Cracuaml! (Caroline), a Sicilian, born 
at Palermo, 20 inches, Iler skeleton is 
preserved in Hunter's Museum (1814- 
18:4). 

Deckex or Drexee (JoAn), 2 feet 
6G inches. An Englishman (1610). 

Fauken (Uren), 3 fect 9 inches. Born 
at Cavan, Le was of enormous strength 
(died 1742). 

Fenny (Nicholas), uaually called Bébe, 
contemporary with Lboruwlaski, He was 
a native of France. Height at death, 
2 feet 9 inches (died 1737). 

Ginson (Jfichard) and his wife Anne 
Shepherd. Neither of them 4 feet. 
Gibson was a noted portrait painter, and 
a page of the back-stairs in the court of 
Charles ]. The king honoured the wed- 
ding with his presence; and they had 
nine children (1615-1690), 

Deven or chance takes ofhers wire, 
But bature did this atch sootrive. 
Wehbe (Lit, 

HMupsow (Sir Jeffrey), 18 inches. fle 
was born at Oakham, in Rutlandshire 
(1619-1678). 

Lucius, 2 feet; weight, 17 Iba. The 
dwarf of the emperor Augustus. 

PHite'tas, & poet, eo small that “he 
wore leaden shoes to prevent being blows 
awny by the wind” (died n.c, 280), 

Puinirs (Calein) weighed less than 
2 lbs. His thighs were not thicker thup 
aman's thumb. He was born at Lridge- 
water, Massachuectts, in 1791. 

Rircnie (Darul), 3 feet 6 inches 
Native of ['weeddale. 





DYOTT STREET. 





EASTWARD HOE, — 





Mayctnoy E Mon Dieu! La nation Frangaie! Fite 
— Were you at Sedan? (To Dr. Con- 
a pads Soe X Sere nant ig Oe, 

Beso, Qualls artifex pares | 


Palaan jthe act 


Onn ry. 00 Re Hams, hi bung 5 Ene is he 
Pure (Wiican i] how 1 thea | 
= ar cenatans 
Pora he aggg fe head, gh ye 
down the 


Sism iacsone ie 
the tom grea do Gut sver oer wil bricks or stone.” 


George Bond waa 
Shine ovo grontioy piles andl dled 


Benin Many things 
bo wy cudertaoding. 
= (Sir Walter). God bles yoo all! (To his 


the farce is over. 


Ark ATER ka, We 
Brak. "(ulda, de), have loved Ged, oxy & 


Pane” Lov To Py dst comand ny et 
Tasso. ni com t 
rmiheapee Ill be shot if 1 don't belleve I'as 


wt Ear asia%, ——e 
fuutast IIL fot i j. (Gam this last long? (To 


(LUAM of Nassav. O God, have upon me, 
and 6 this poor gation! [This wae ald os he woe shot 


by Geran, } 
Wutrs (Genera!) What! do they ron already? Then 


T dhe baa 
That which I then eid [ 


GPary 
WATT | Thorns). 
That which | now is traa, (This to the priest who 


may 

reminded him that he had sotceed Lhe princess 

of tremeon trewon to the council, and that be now alleged ber to 
be Logeomert) 


*,” Those names preceded by similar 
pilcrows indicate that the “‘dying words” 
ascribed to them are identical or nearly 
eo. Thos the * before Charlemagne, 
Columbus, lady Jane Grey, and Tasso, 
shows that their words were alike. So 
with the ¢ before Augustus, Demonax, 
and Rabelais; the ¢ before Louis XVIII. 
and Vespasian ; the § before Coeear and 
Maszaniello ; the | before Arria, Hunter, 
and Louis XIV;; ; and the ¥ before Goethe 
and Talma. 


Re A Street (Bloomsbury Square, 
on), now called George Street St. 
Giles, The famous song “In my 
Chamber that's next to the Sky" ia in 
Dombastes Furioso, by T. B. Rhodes 
(1790). 


Dys'colus, Moroseness onified in 
The Furple Jsiand, by Phineas Fletcher 
1633). ‘‘ He nothing liked or praised.” 
‘ally described in canto viii. (Greek, 
duskdlos, ‘ fretful.”) 


Dysmas, Dismas, or Demas, the 

eres thief crucified with our Lord. 
¢ impenitent thief ia called Geamaa or 
(estas, 
dlte potlt Dionas, lnfella infima Geeman 

Purtof a Ciarm. 
To parndi: thSef Tier wen, 
Bent Cees dic Joplin, 


There lb another and a better | 


| wife, 


Meaning, “Leave | 





E. 


Eadburgh, danghter - Edward the 
Elder, stew 2 of England, and Kadgifu his 
When three years old, her father 
ae on the child some rings and brace- 

and showed hera chaliceand a book of 
the Gospels, asking which she would have. 
The child chose the chalice and book, and 
Edward was pleased that “the child 
wuighter of God." She 


became a nun, and lived and died in 
Winchester. 

Eagle (Tie), ensign of the Roman 
legion. Before the Cimbrian war, the 


wolf, the Horse and the boar were also 
borne as ensi but Marius abolished 
these, and retained the eagle only, hence 
called emphatically “ The Roman Bird.” 

Eagle (The Theban), Pindar, o native of 
Thebes (B.o, 518-442), 


Eagle of Brittany, Bertrand Du- 
ea constable of France (1320- 
B80) 

Eagle of Divines, Tho Aqui’- 
melted. ee 


Eagle of Meaux [arly 
Benger Bossuet, bishop of Meaux (1 
U4) 


Eagle of the Doctors of France, 
Pierre d'Ailly, a great astrologer, who 
maintained that the stars foretold the 
great Hood (1850-1425). 


Barnscliffe (Patrick), the youn 
laird of Earnscliff.—Sir W. Scott, "Black 
Diwarf (time, Anne), 


East Saxons or ‘oma o capital 
Colchester, founded by Erchinwin. 
Sebert began to reign in Essex in 604, 
and, according to tradition, where West~ 
minster Abbey now stands wasa heathen 
temple to Apollo, which be either con- 
verted into a church called St. Peter's, 

ulled down and erected a church so 

lied on the same site, 
from the loins of Erehinein (who roleed 
Th’ East Baxous' Kingdon first) brave debert may be 
Wha] began the goodly chureh of Westminster to 
ho Drayton, Polyo: blow, aL (1614). 
Eastward Hoe, a comedy by Chap- 
man, Marston, and Jonson. For 
this drama the three authora were im- 
risoned “‘ for disrespect to their 
ford king James |." (1605), (See Wasr- 
WARD Hog.) 


1027. 














Widen (The Garden of). There is a 
varia so called, because, like 


ion of 
Een, itis waterec by four streams, viz., 
the ite Maine, the Eger, the Saalle, 
and the Naabe. 

an the Xordn the word Eden means 
*‘ everlasting abode.” Thusin ch. ix. we 
read, ‘‘ God promiseth to true believers 


ens of perpetual abode,” literally 
‘ gardens of Eden.” 


Eden, in America. A dismal swamp, 
the climate of which generally proved 
fata] to the poor dupes who were induced 
to settle there through the swindli 
transactions of general Scadder an 
general Choke. So dismal and dan- 

us was the place, that even Mark 
Fapley was satisfied to have found at last 
a place where he could ‘“‘ come out jolly 
with credit."—C. Dickens, Martin Chuz- 
slewit (1844). 

Eden of Germany (Das Eden 
Deutschiands). Baden is so called on 
account of its mountain scenery, its 
extensive woods, its numerous streams, 
its mild climate, and its fertile soil. 
The valley of Treisam, in the grand- 
duchy, is locally called ‘‘ Hell Valley” 
Hollenthall). Between this and the lake 

nstance lies what is called ‘‘ The 
Kingdom of Heaven.” 


Edenhall ( The Luck of), an old 
inted goblet, eft by the fairies on St. 
Cuthbert's Well in the garden of Eden- 
hall. The superstition is that if ever this 
goblet is lost or broken, there will be no 
more luck in the family. The goblet is 
in the possession of sir Christopher Mus- 
grave, bart., Edenhall, Cumberland. 
*,* Longfellow has a poem on The Luck 
of Edenhall, translated from Ubland. 
ar (959-775), “king of all the 
English,” was not crowned till he had 
reigned thirteen years (A.p. 973). Then 
the ceremony was performed at Bath. 
After this he sailed to Chester, and eight 
of his vassal kings came with their fleets 
to pay him homage, and swear fealty to 


him by land and sea. The eight are 
Kenneth (ding of Scvts), Malcolm (of 
Cumberland), Maccus (of the Jsies), and 


five Welsh princes, whose names were 
Dufnal, Siferth, Huwal, Jacob, and 
Jachil. The eiyht kings rowed Edgar in 
a boat (while te acted as steersman) 
from Chester to St. John's, where they 
offered prayer, and then returned. 

At Ceeoster, while be { Zdyur) lived, at more than kingly 


Bight tri kings there rowel him in his barge. 
md Tayton, Jet, olbion, iii. (1613). 





EDINA. 


Edgar, son of Gloucester, and his 
lawful heir. He was disinherited by 
Edmund, natural son of the earl.—Shake- 
speare, King Lear (1605). 

*,* This was one of the characters of 
Robert Wilks (1670-1782), and also of 
Charles Kemble (1774-1854). 


Edgar, master of Ravenswood, son ot 
Allan of Ravenswood (a detayed Scotch 
nobleman). Lucy Ashton, being attacked 
by a wild bull, is saved by Edgar, who 
shoots it; and the two, falling in love with 
each other, plight their mutual troth, and 
exchange love-tokens at the “ Mermaid’s 
Fountain.” While Edgar is absent in 
France on State affairs, sir William Ashb- 
ton, being deprived of his office as lord 
keeper, is induced to promise his daugh- 
ter Lucy in marriage to Frank Hayston, 
laird of Bucklaw, and they are married ; 
but next morning, Bucklaw is found 
wounded, and the bride hidden in the 
chimney-corner, insane. Lucy dies in 
convulsions, but Bucklaw recovers and 
goes abroad. Edgar is lost in the quick- 
sands at Kelpies Flow, in accordance with 
an ancient prophecy.—Sir W. Scott, Bride 
of Lammermoor (time, William IJ1.). 

*,* In the opera, Edgar is made to stab 
himself. 


Edyar, an attendant on prince Robert 
of Scotland.—Sir W. Scott, Fair Maid of 
Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Edgardo, master of Ravenswood, in 
love with Lucia di Lammermoor [Zucy 
Ashton]. While absent in France on 
State affairs, the lady is led to believe 
him faithless, and consents to marry the 
laird of Bucklaw ; but she stabs him on 
the bridal night, goes mad, and dies. 


_ Edgardo also stabs himself.— Donizetti, 


Lucia di Lammermoor (1835). 

*,” In the novel called The Bride of 
Lammermoor, by sir W. Scott, Edgar is 
lost in the quicksands at Kelpies Flow, in 
accordance with an ancient prophecy. 


Edgeworth (L' Abbe), who attendet 
Louis AVI. to the scaffold, was called 
‘‘ Mons. de Firmount,” a corruption of 
Fairy mount, in Longford (Ireland), where 
the Edgeworths had extensive domains. 

Edging (Mistress), a prying, mischief- 
making waiting-woman, in Zhe Careless 
Husband, by Colley Cibber (1704). 

Edi’na, a poetical form of the word 
Edinburg. It was first employed by 
Buckanan (1506-1582). 


And pale EAina eshaddered at the sound. 
Byrou, Anglish Bards and Scotch Reviewers (900) 


@eewwee — 


ome we 


EDWIDGE. 

Ba'’widze 
Rossini, Guglielmo Tell (1829). 

Bdwin “the minstrel,” a youth living 
in romantic seclusion, with a t thirst 
for knowledge. He lived in Gothic days 
in the north countrie, and fed his fl 
on Scotia’s mountains, 


Beatic, The Mimstrel, 1 (1773). 


reli‘na. Angelina 
was the daughter of a wealthy lord, 
“beside the Tyne.” Her hand was 
sought in marriage by many suitors, 
amongst whom was win, “who had 
neither wealth nor power, but he had 
both wisdom and worth.” Angelina 
loved him, but ‘‘trifled with him," and 
Edwin, in despair, left ker, and retired 
from the world. One day, Angelina, in 
boy’s clothes, asked eg Pete at A 
hermit’s cell; she was kindly enter- 
tained, told her tale, and the hermit 
proved to be Edwin. From that hour 
they never parted more,—Goldsmith, 7'he 
Hermit 


Bdwin and 


A correspondent acemes me of having taken thh 
ballad from fie Friar af Orders Gray... but if Uvere 
fs any resemblance between the Pwo, Mr. Perry's balled 
is taken from mine. | real roy hiv lhed ty Mir. Perey, wir 
be told me afterwards that he had then my plan to 
spoare into 6 ballad of bb 


form the fra ite of Eliade: 
sm acolo, Galdaulth. 1707 


Edwin and Emma. Emma was 


wife of William Tell.— 








287 


——s 


a rustic beauty of Stanemore, who loved | 


Edwin ‘‘the pride of swaings;" but 
Edwin's sister, out of envy, induced his 
father, ‘“‘a sordid man," to forbid any 
intercourse between Edwin and the 
cottage. Edwin pined away, and being 
on the point of death, requested he might 
be allowed to see Emma. She came and 
said to him, ‘‘ My Edwin, live for me ;" 
but on her way home she beard the death 
bell toll. She just contrived to reach her 
cottage door, cried to her mother, ‘* He's 
one!” and fell down dead at her feet.— 
allet, Edwin and Emma (a ballad). 


Ed‘yrn, #0n of Nudd. He ousted the 
earl of Yn'iol from his earldom, and tried 
to win E’nid the earl's daughter, but 
failing in this, became the evil genius 
of the gentle earl. Ultimately, being 
sent t the court of king Arthur, he 
became quite a « man—from 








verted “into & courteous geotleman.— 
Tennyson, Jdylls of the Aing (‘* Enid"), 


Hel. The best in the world are those 
of Ancum, a river in that division of 
Lincolnshire called Lindsey (the highest 
por The best pike are from the 
Vitham, in the division of Lincolnshire 
called Kesteven (in the west). 

As Kesteven doth boast her Wytham, so have I 

My Ancum ,.. whose fume os far doth 

For fat ood dalnty eels, oe ber's doth for ber 7 fee 

Drayton, Yo yolWen, cov, (LEE 

Efeso (St.), a saint honoured in Pisa, 
He was a Roman officer [/phesus) in the 
service of Diocletian, whose reign waa 
marked by a great persecution of the 
Christians. This Efeso or Ephesus was 
appointed to see the decree of the emperor 
against the obnoxious sect carmed out in 
the island of Sardinian; but being warned 
ina dream not to persecute the servants 
of the Lord, both he and his friend Potito 
embraced Christianity, and received a 
standard from Michael the archangel 
himself, On one occasion, being taken 
captive, St. Efeso was cast into a furnace 
of fire, but received no injury ; whereas 
those who cast him in were consumed by 
the flames. Ultimately, both Efeso and 
Potito suffered martyrdom, and were 
burned in the island of Sardinia, When, 
however, that island was conquered by 
Pisa in the eleventh century, the relics of 
the two martyrs were carried off and 
interred in the duomo of Pisa, and the 
banner of St. Efeso was thenceforth 
adopted as the national ensign of Pisa, 


Egalité (Philippe), the duc d'Orléans, 
father of Louis Philippe king of France. 
He himself assumed this ‘ tithe” when 
he joined the revolutionary party, whose 
motto was “Liberty, Fraternity, and 
Egalité (born 1747, guillotined 1798). 


Ege'us (3 syl.), father of Her’mia. 
He summoned her before The'seus (2 sy/.) 
duke of Athens, because she refused to 
marry Demetrius, to whom he had pro- 
mised her in marriage ; and he requested 
thatshe might either be compelled to marry 
him or else be dealt with “according to 
the law," .¢, “either to die the death,” 
or else to “endure the livery of a DUMy 
and live a barren sister all ber life, 
Hermia refused to submit to an “une 
wished yoke,” and fled from Athens with 
Lysander, Demetrius, seeing that Ilermia 
disliked hun but that Hel'ena doted oa 
him, consented to abandon the one end 
wed the cther. When Egius was ine 


malicious * sparrow-hawk” he was con- | formed thereof, he withdrew his summons, 





EINION. 289 








each sufficiently wide to 
t men abreast to pass through. 
ian Mythology. 

Binion (Father), chaplain to Gwen- 
wyn prince of Powys-land.—Sir W. 
Scott, The Betrothed (time, Henry II.). 

Eivir, a Danish maid, who assumes 
boy's clothing, and waits on Harold ‘“‘the 
Dauntless,” as his . Subsequently, 


had 540 
admit ei 


her sex is discov and Harold marries 
Ser.—Sir W. Seott, Harold the 
(1817). 


Blain, sister of king Arthur by the 
same mother. She mated sir Nentres 
ot Carlot, and was by king. Arthur the 
mother of Mordred. (See Evern.)—Sir 
T. Malory, History of Prince Arthur, i. 
(1470). 

*,* In some of the romances there is 
great confusion between Elain (the sister) 
and Morgause (the half-sister) of Arthur. 
Both are called the mother of Mordred, 
and both are also called the wife of Jot. 
This, however, is a mistake. Elain was 
the wife of sir Nentres, and Morgause of 
Lot; and if Gawain, Agrawain, Gareth, and 
Gahtris were {half} brothers of Mordred, 
as we are told over and over again, then 
Morganse and not Elain was hia mother. 
Tennyson makes Bellicent the wife of 
Lot, but this is not in accordance with 
any of the legends collected by sir T. 
Malory. 

Elaine (Dame), daughter of ki 
Pelles (2 syl.) ‘Sof the fo country, 
and the unwedded mother of sir Galahad 
by sir Launcelot du Lac.—Sir I. Malory, 

istury of Prince Arthur, iii. 2 (1470). 

Elame, daughter of king Brandeg’oris, 
by whom sir Bore de Ganis had a child. 

For all women was sir Bore a virgin, aave for one, the 
Gaughter of king Brandegoris, on he had a child, 
bight Blaine; aave for her, sir Bors was a clean maid.— 
Gir T. Malory. History af Prince Arthur, lil. 4 (1470). 

*,* Itis by no means clear from the 
history whether Elaine was the daughter 
of king Brandegoris, or the daughter of 
sir Bors and granddaughter of king 
Brandegoris. 


Elaine’ (2 syl.), the strong contrast of 
Guinevere. Guinevere’s love for Lance- 
lot was gross and sensual, Elaine's was 

latonic and pure as that of a child; but 

th were masterful in their stre . 
Elaine is called ‘‘the lily maid of As’- 
tolat” (Guddford), and knowing that 
Lancelot was pledged to celibacy, she 
pined and died. According to her dying 
request, her dead body was placed on a 


13 





ELEAZAR. 


bed in a barge, and was thus conveyed 
by a dumb servitor to the palace of king 
Arthur. A letter was handed to the king, 
telling the tale of Elaine’s love, and the 
king ordered the body to be buried, and 
her story te be blazoned on her tomb.— 
Tennyson, Jdylis of the King (‘‘ Elaine”). 


El’amites (3 syi.), Persians. 80 
called from Elam, son of Shem. 


El’berich, the most famous dwarf 
of German romance.— Zhe Heldenbuch. 


El’bow, a well-meaning but loutish 
constable. — Shakespeare, Measure for 
Measure (1608). 


Elden Hole, in Derbyshire Peak, 
said to be fathomfess. rey 


El Dorado, the ‘‘ golden city." So 
the Spaniards called Man‘hoa of Guia’na. 
Gaians, | whose great city Geryon’s sons 

Milton, Paradise Lost, xi. 411 (1068). 


Eleanor, queen-consort of Henry II., 
alluded to by the presbyterian minister 
in Woodstock, x. (1826). 

“* Believe me, young man, thy servant was more likely 
to see vislous than to dream idle dreams in that apart- 
ment; for I have always heard that, next to Rosamond’s 
Bower, in which . . . she played the wanton, and was 
afterwards polsoned by queen Eleanor, Victor Lee's 
chamber was the place. . . peculiarly the haunt of evil 
spirite.”"—Sir W. Scott, Woodsteck (time, Commonwealth). 

Eleanor Crosses, twelve or four- 
teen crosses erected by Edward J. in the 
various towns where the body of his queen 
rested, when it was conveyed from Her- 
delie, near Lincoln, to Westminster. The 
three that still remain are Geddington, 
Northampton, and Waltham. 

(In front of the South-Eastern Railway 
station, Strand, London, is a model of 
the Charing Cross, of the original dimen- 
sions.) 


Eleagar the Moor, imsolent, blood- 
thirsty, lustful, and vindictive, like 
‘¢ Aaron,” in [Shakespeare's ?] Titus An- 
dron’icus. The lascivious queen of Spain 
is in love with this monster.—C. Marlowe, 
Lust's Dominion or The Lascivious Queen 
(1588). 


Elea'zar, a famous mathematician, who 
cast out devils by tying to the nose of the 
possessed a mystical ring, which the 
demon no sooner smelled than he aban- 
doned the victim. He performed before 
the emperor Vespasian ; and to prove that 
something came out of the possessed, he 
commanded the demon in making off to 
upset a pitcher of water, which it did. 

I imagine if Eleamer’s ring had been put uader Gaal 
U 








ELIJAH FED BY RAVENS. 


fer the third time.—Geoffrey, British 
History, tii. 17, 18 (1470). 


bead. 
Polyolbion, vill, (1612). 
*,* Wordsworth has a poem on this 
subject. 


Elijah fed by Ravens. While 
Elijah was at the brook Cherith, in con- 
ment, ravens brought him food every 

morning and evening.—1 Kings xvii. 6. 
A strange parallel is recorded of Wyat, 
in the reign of Richard III. The king 
east him into prison, and when he was 
pearly starved to death, a cat ap at 
the window-grating, and dropped into his 
& pigeon, which the warder cooked 

for him. This was repeated daily. 


Elim, the guardian angel of Lebb&us 
(B syi.) apostle. Lebbeus, the softest 
and most tender of the twelve, at the 
death of Jesus ‘‘sank under the burden 
ot ar net." —Klopstock, The Messiah, 


El'io 
of Ghe. 


consort of Beruth, and ‘ather 
choniathon. 


Eliot (George), Marian Evans (or 
‘Mrs. Marian Lewes"), author of Adam 
Bede (1858), Mill on the Floss (1860), 
Silas Marner (1861), etc. 

Elisa, often written Eliza in English, 
Dido queen of Carthage. 

Dum memor ipee mel, dum ites hos reget arts. 
Vv -#neid, iv. 386, 338, 
Bo to Hise dawred that cruel day 
Which tore A:neas from her sight away, 

That aaw him parting, never to return, 
Herself in funeral flames 


decreed to burn, ° 
Falconer, The Shipwreck, iil 4 (1786). 


Elis’abat, a famous surgeon, who 
attended queen Madasi’ma in all her 
solitary wanderings, and was her sole 
companion.—Amadis de Gaul (fifteenth 
century). 

filisabeth ou Les Exilés de 
Biberie, a tale by Madame Cottin 
1778-1807). The family being exiled 
or some political offence, Elizabeth 
walked all the way from Siberia to 
Russia, to crave pardon of the czar. She 
obtained her prayer, and the family 
returned. 


Elise (2 syl.), the motherless child of 
on the miscr. She was affianced 

to Valtre, by whom she had been 
‘rescued from the waves.” Valere turns 
eat to be the son of don Thomas d'Alburci, 


291 





ELMO. 


a wealthy nobleman of Naples.—Molites, 
LL’ Avare (1667). 


Elis’sa, step-sister of Medi’na and 
Perissa. ey could never agree upoa 
an sop ioct— Spenser, Faéry Queen, ii. 


‘Medina” the golden mean) ‘* Klisea * 
and « Perioaa * ( two extremes). 

Elixir Vite, a drug which was onen 
thought would ensure perpetual life and 


He that has once the * Flower of the Sun,” 
The rere eae nin we call atietr, 


ape fin 


He'll make an old man 
Ben Jonson, The 4 inb<enest, f1. (1616). 


Elizabeth (The ‘ '. 
imperious, but fevoted te her pe 
She loved the earl of Eseea. and, w 
she heard that he was mer-ied to the 
countess of Rutland, exclaimeS that she 
never ‘‘ knew sorrow before.” The queen 
gave Essex a ring after his rebellion, 
saying, ‘‘ Here, from my finger take this 
ring, a pledge of mercy ; and whencoe’er 
you send it back, I swear that 1 wil 
nt whatever boon you ask.” Aftes 
is condemnation, Essex sent the ring i 
the queen by the countess of Nottingham, 
craving that her most gracious majest) 
would spare the life of lord Southampton ; 
but the countess, from jealousy, did nce 
give it to the queen. However, the queen 
sent a reprieve for Essex, but Burlei 
took care that it came too late, and the 
earl was beheaded as a traitor.—Henry 
Jones, The Earl of Essex (1745). 


Elizabeth (Queen), introduced by sir 
W. Scott in his novel called Kenilworth. 


Elizabeth of H (St.), 
patron saint of queens, bei erself a 
queen. Her day is July 9 (1207-1231). 


Ellesmere (Wistress), the head 
domestic of lady Peveril.—Sir W. Scott, 
Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles IT.). 

Elliott (Hobtive, i.c. Halbert), farmer at 
the Heugh-foot. His bride-elect is Grace 
Armstrong. 

Mrs. Eliott, Hobbie’s grandmother. 

John and Harry, Hobbie’s brothers. 

Lilias, Jean, and Arnot, Hobbie's 
sisters.—Sir W. Scott, The Black Dwarf 
(time, Anne). 

Elmo (St.). The fre of St. Elmo 
(Feu de Saint Elme), a comazant. If 
ocly one appears on a ship-mast, foul 
weather is at hand; but if two or more, 








ELVIRA. 
“marries Amina, bi his first and only love.— | love.— 
Bellini's opera, La Sonnambula (1 1831). 


_Eilvi'ra, sister of don Duart, and 
niece of the governor of Lisbon. She 
marries Clodio, the coxcomb son of don 
Antonio.—C. Cibber, Love Makes a Man. 


Elv’ra, the young wife of Gomez, a 
rich old banker. carries on a liaison 
with colonel Lorenzo, by the aid of her 
father-confessor Dominick, but is always 
checkmated, and it turns out that Lorenzo 
is her brother.—Dryden, Zhe Spanish 
Fryar (1680). 

Elvira, a noble lady, who gives up 
everything to become the mistress of 
Pizarro. She tries to soften his rude and 
croel nature, and to lead him into more 


generous ways. Her iove being changed 
to hate, she Rolla to slay Pizarro 
in his tent; but € no noble Peruvian spares 
his encmy, and makes him a friend. 


Ultimately, Pizarro is ‘slain in fight with 
Alonzo, and Elvira retires to a convent.— 
Sheridan, Pizarro (altered from Kotzebue, 
1799). 


Elei’ra (Donna), a lady deceived by 
don Giovanni, who basely deluded her 
into an amour with his valet Leporello.— 
Mozart's opera, Don Giovanni (1787). 

Elvi'ra “the puritan,” daughter of 
lord Walton, betrothed to Arturo (lord 
Arthur Talbut), acavalier. On the day of 
CHoanets the young man aids Enrichetta 

tta, widow of Charles I.) to escape, 
va Elvira, thinking he has eloped with 
a rival, temporarily loses her reason. 
Cromwell's soldiers arrest Arturo for 
treason, but he is subse uently pardoned 
and marries Elvira.— "S opera, 7 
Purdani (1834). 


Elvira, a lady in love with Erna’ni the 
robber-captain and head of a league 
against don Carlos (afterwards Charles V. 

Spain). Ernani was just on the point of 
marrying Elvira, when he was summoned 
to death by Gomez de Silva, and stabbed 
himself.—Verdi, Ernani (an opera, 1841). 


Elov’ra, betrothed to Alfonso (son of 
the duke d’Arcos). No sooner is the 
marriage completed than she learns that 
Alfonso nas seduced Fenella, a dumb 
girl, sister of Masaniello the fisher- 
man. Masaniello, to revenge his wron 
heads an insurrection, and Alfonso with 
Elvira run for safety to the fisherman’s 
hut, where they find Fenella, who pro- 
mises to protect them. Masaniello, bei 
made chief magistrate of Por'tici, is kill 





EMILE. 


by the mob; Fenella throws herself into 
the crater ¢ of Vesuvins ; nd Alfonso is 

to live in peace wi vira.— Auber, 
Masaniello (1831). 


Elvire (2 syl.), the wife of don Juan, 
whom he abandons. She enters a 
convent, and tries to reclaim her pro- 
fligate husband, but without success.— 
a aa Juan (1665). 


of), introduced by sir W. 

Scat in Ce Pairs p: isman (time, Ri I.). 
Elysium (the Elysian fields), the 
land of the blest, to which the favoured 


of the gods passed without dyi The 
ros in one of the “ Fortunate Lalande“ 


Of sacred f and Elysian groves, 
And vales of bilsa. 
Akenside, Pieasures of Imagination, & (1746@. 
Emath'ian Conqueror ( The Great), 
Alexander the Great. Emathia is Mace- 
douia and Thessaly. Emathion, a son of 
Titan and Aurora, reigned in Macedonia. 
Pliny tells us that Alexander, when he 
besieged Thebes, spared the house in 
which Pindar the poet was born, out of 
reverence to his great abilities. 
Lift not Sy bens against the Nuses core 
The great Eniathian conquerur bid 
The house of Pindirus, when temple and and tower 
Weut to the ground. 
Milton, Sonnet, vit 


Embla, the woman Eve of Scandi- 





navian mythology. Eve or Embla was 
made of elm, but Ask or Adam was made 
of ash. 


Em elie or Emg.rke, sister-in-law of 
duke Theseus (2 sy/.), beloved by both 
Pal‘amon and Ar’cyte (2 syi/.), but the 


’ former had her to wife. 


Emelie that fairer was to scene 
Than is the lilie on hire stalkés grene, 
Aud fresecher thao the May with flourés newe, 
Chaucer, Canterbury Taivs ("The Knight's Tale i "ae 
Emerald Isle (The), Ireland ; 
called first by Dr. W. Drennan, in 
poem entitled "Erin (1754-1820). 


Emeral'der, an Irishman, one of the 
Emerald Isle. 


Emerita (St.), sister of king Lucius, 
who, when her brother abdicated the 
British crown, accompanied him to Swit- 
zerland, and shared with him there a 
martyr’s death. 

Emerita the next, king Lucius’ sister dear, 

Who in Helvetia with her martyr brother dled 

Drayton, Polyoldion, xxiv. (68%), 
Emile ( 2 avi. .), the chief character of 

a philesophical romance on education by 








ENCELADOS. 


amd Fletcher, Zhe Humorous Lieutenant 
(1647). 
we powerful of all the he cone 
m 0 @ giants who con- 
spired ag inst Jupiter. He was struck 
with a thunder-bolt, and covered with 
the heap of earth now called mount Etna. 
The smoke of the volcano is the breath of 
the buried giant ; and when he shifts his 
side it ia an earthquake. 
Fama est, Enceladi semaiustum fulmine 
Unger! mc mole hac, i emque insuper Ztnam 
Impositan, ruptis caminis ; 
Et, fomam quoties matat lati, intremere omnem 
Trinacriam, eo coplum subtexere fuimo. 
Virgil, ameid, ili. 878-082. 
Where the burning cinders, blown 
From the lips of the o'erthrown 
Enceladus, fill the air. 
Longfellow, Bnosladus. 
soe erates (3 syl.) Temperance 
the husbend of Agnei's (wiyely 
chastity When his wife's sister Par- 
in (maidenly hss 2 was wounded in 
the’ battle of Mansoul, by False Delight, 
he and his wife ran to ‘her assistance, and 
soon routed the foes who were hounding 
her. Continence (her lover) went also, 
and poured a balm into her wounds, which 
healed them. (Greek, egkrdtés, ‘continent, 
tem perate.”) 
So have I often seen a flower, 
Painting thro’ heat, down ber x Grooping head ; 
Rut, welcome sho 


with @ 

Begins again rie ber uikan fare spread. 

The Purple Island, TA. (1633). 

Endell (Martha, a poor fallen girl, 
to whom Em'ly goes when Steerforth 
deserts her. She emigrates with Dan’el 
Veggot’ty, and marries a yo ung farmer 
in Australia.—C. Dickens, id Copper- 
field (1849). 


Endermay, i.e. Andermatt or Ur- 
scren, a town and valley in the Uni of 
Switzerland. 

Boft as the happy swain’s enchantin nie 
That pipes among tne anaice of En 
Palconer, The Shtperreck, ill. 8 (1786). 

Endiga, in Charles XII., by J. R. 

Planché (1826). 


Endless, the rascally lawyer in No 
a) No Supper, by P. Hoare (1754~- 


corpus 


And wih new 
Phineas 


Endymion, a noted astronomer who, 
froai mount Latmus, in varia, discovered 
the course of the moon lence it is 
fabled that the moon slceps with Endy- 
nvr. Strictly speaking, Endymion is 
the setting sun. 

6 Latmus by the wise Endyroton is renowned ; 
That hil on whose high top he was the first that found 
‘3 wandering course; so shilifui in ner sphere, 
hs come stich mot to my that he enjoyed ber thers. 
Drayton, Polyotbion, vi. (1618). 





295 


ENID. 


To sleep fike Endymion, to sleep ke 
and soundly. ymion requested cated of 


Jove permission to sleep as long as he 
felt inclined. Hence the proverb, - 
mionis somnum dormire. Jean Ogier 
Gombaud wrote is French a 11624)" and or 
prose poem ymion ’ 
onc of the best paintings of A. L. Ctiodet 
is ‘ Endymion. " Cowley, referring to 
Gomban "a romance, says: 

pnile there is s people or a sun, 

Endymion's story with the moon shall run. 

John Keats, in 1818, published bis 

Endymion (a poetic romance), and the 
oritioiem of the Quarterly Review was 
falsely said to have caused his death. 


Endym’ion. So Wm. Browne calls sy 
Walter Raleigh, who was for a time in 
with queen Elizabeth, whom he 


‘‘ Cyn’thia. 
The first note that I heard I scon was wonne 
To think the sighes of faire En 

subject of whose 


Enfants de Dieu, the Camisards. 

The royal troops outnumbered the Enfants de Dieu, and 
a not flight took place.—. Gillias, 4agdeem 
Chrteti, ili. 

Enfield (4frs.), the keeper of a house 
of intrigue, or “ gentlemen's azine” 
of frail beauties.—Holcroft, The 
Dauyhter (1784). 


Engaddi (Theodorick, hermit of), an an 
enthusiast. He was Aberick of 

mar, an exiled noble.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Tulisman (time, Richard I.). 


Enjaddi, one of the towns of Judah, 
forty miles from Jerusalem, famous for 
its palm trees. 

aera egies 


, Sand of the Desers. 
Engel’brecht, one of the Va 
ruards.—Sir W. Scott, Count of 
Saris (time, Rufus). 


En'gelre uire of sir Reginald 
Front mn Beat (fa (fal lower of prince John 


of Anjou, the brother of Richard I.).— 
Sir W. Scott, /vanhoe (time, Richard I.}. 


En guerraud, brother of the mar- 
uis of Montserrat, a crusader.—Sir W. 
qc The Talisman (tame, Richard I.). 


Hnid, the personification of spotless 
purity he was the daughter of 

and wife of Geraint. The tale of Gent 
and Enid allegorizes the contagion of 


_ distrust and jealousy, commencing with 





EPHIALTES. 


serpenta because they happened to kill 
one belonging to Mars.) 

Bphial’tes (4 sy/.), one of the 
who made war upon the . He was 
deprived of his left eye by Apollo, and of 
his right eye by Herculés. 

° seven youthful warriors, 
won ) one een chiefs who laid siege 
to Thebes. All the seven chiefs (except t 
Adrastos) perished in the siege & put the 
seven sons, ten years ter, too e cl 
and razed it to the ground. The Shiew 
and sons were: (1) Adrastos, whose son 
was Zgi’aleus (4 syi.); (2) Polynikés, 
whose son was Thersan’der; (3) Am- 
phiar’ace (5 sy/.), whose son was Alk- 
mon (the chief) ; (4) Ty’ deus ae gah +) 
whose son was Diomé 'dés 
aneus (8 sy/.), whose son was i glen’ Sloe : 
(6) Parthenops’os, whose son was Pro- 
machos; (7) Mekis’theus (3 sy/.), whose 
son was alos 

Eschylos has a " traged on The Seven 
Cisefa against Thebes. ere are also 

one The Thebaid of Statius, 

ma The pioni sometimes attributed to 

Homer and” sometimes to one of the 
Cyclic poets of Greece. 


Epigon'iad (The), called “the 
Scotch MMiad,” by William Wilkie (1721- 
1772). This is the tale of the Epig’oni 
or seven sons of the seven chieftains who 
laid siege to Thebes. The tale is this: 
When (E’dipos abdicated, his two sons 

to reign alternate years; but at 
the expiration of the first year, the elder 
son (Eté’cclés) refused to give up the 
throne. Whereupon the younger brother 
(Polynikés) interested six Grecian chiefs 
to espouse his cause, and the allied 
armies laid siege to Thebes, without suc- 
cess. Subsequently, the seven sons of the 
old chiefs went against the city to avenge 
the deaths of their fatbers, who had fallen 
in the former siege. They succeeded in 
taking the city, and in placing Thersan- 
der on the throne. The names of the 
seven sons are Thersander, A‘gi’aleus, 
Alkmaon, Diomedés, Sthen’elos, Pro’- 
machus, and Eurydalos. 


Epimen’ides (5 sy/.) of Crete, some- 
times reckoned one of the ‘‘seven wise 
men of Grecce" in the place of Peri- 
ander. He slept for fifty-seven years in 
a cave, and, on waking, found every- 
thing so changed that he could recognize 
Rothing. Epimenidés lived 289 years, 
and was adored by the Cretans as one 
of their ‘‘Curctés” or priests of Jove. 
H- was contemporary with Solon. 





297 








EQUIVOKES. 


the has a poem called Des 
Erwachen.—See Heinrich's 





nidee t Ehime. 


niles.) 
Epi pimenides's Drwg.. A nymph who loved 
Epimenides gave him a draught in a 


bull's horn, one single drop of which 
would not only cure any ailment, but 
would also serve for a hearty meal 

Le Nouveau Epimencde is a man who 
lives in a dream in a kind of ‘Castle ot 
Spain,” where he deems himself a ki 
and does not wish to be disillusion 
The song is by Jacinthe Lecltre, one of 
the mem! the ‘‘ Societé de Momus” 


inogris (Sir), son of the king of 
num berland. e loved an earl's 
ter, but slew the earl in a knightly 

con na ” Next day, a knight 
him to fight, and e lad was to be the 
prize of the victor. Sir Epinogris, being 
overthrown, lost the lady ; ; but when sir 
Palomidés heard the tale, he promised to 
recover her. Accordingly, he challenged 
the victorious knight, who turned out to 
be his brother. e point of dispute tin 
then amicably arranged by givin 
lady to sir Epinogris.—Sir T. Sidon, 
History of Prince Arthur, ii. 169 ( 1470)” 


Eppie, onc of the servants of the Rev, 
Josiah Caryill. In the same novel is 
Eppie Anderson, one of the servants at 
the Mowbray Arms, Old St. Konan's, 
held by Me ef Dods.—Sir W. Scott, St 
Runan's Well (time, George III.). 


Epps, | cook, of Saunders Fairford a 
awycr.—sir . ott, Redyauntiet 
(time, George III.). 


Equity (Father of), Heneage Finch, 
earl of ‘ottingham (1621-1682). In 
Absalom and Achitophel (by Dryden and 
Tate) he is called ‘* Amri.” 


Sincere was Amri, and not only knew, 

But Israel’s sanctions into tice drew ; 
Our laws, that did a bound OOSAN seem, 
Were cuasted all, and fathomed all by bine him. 
To bim the duuble nton, doth Resend 


With Moses’ ins; -iration 
didnalom end Aohidephet. phen ih (16am. 


Equivokes. 

Ixnry IV. was told that “he 
should not die but in Jerusalem,” which 
he supposed meant the Holy Land ; bat 
he died in the Jerusalem Chamber. ‘Lon- 
don, which is the chapter-house of 
minster Abbey. 

2. Pork SYLVESTER was also told he 
should die at Jerusalem, and he died 
while saying mass in a church so called 
at Rome. 


ERECK. 


Breck, a knight of the Round Table. 
He marries the tiful Enite (2 sy/.), 
daughter of a poor knight, and falls into 
a state of idleness and effeminacy, till 
Enite rouses him to action. He then 
goes forth on an expedition of adven- 
tures, and after combatiny with brizands, 
giants, and dwarfs, returns to the court 
of king Arthur, where he remain: till 
the death of his father. He then enters 
on hes inheritance, and lives peaceably 
the rest of his life—Hartmann von der 
Aue, Zreck (thirteenth century). 


Ereen’ia (3 syl.), a glendoveer’ or 
pe the beloved son of Cus'yapa 
3 syl. 
took pity on Kail’yal (2 sy/.), daughter 
ef Ladar’lad, and carried her to his 
Bower of Bliss in paradise (canto vii.). 
Here Kailyal could not stay, because she 
was still a living daughter of earth. On 
her return to earth, she was chosen for 
the bride of Jagan-naut, and Ar'valan 
game to dishonour her; but she set fire 
to the 





witeh Lor’rimite (3 sy). and carried to 
the submerged city of Bualy, whence he 
was delivered by Ladurlad. The plen- 
doveer now craved Seeva for venveance, 
but the god sent him to Yamen (ic. 
Pluto), and Yamen said the measure of 
iniquity was now full, so Arvalan and 
his father Kehama were both made in- 
mates of the city of everlasting woe; 
while Ereenia carried Kailyal, who had 
uaffed the waters of immortality, to his 
wer of Bliss, to dwell with him in 
everlasting joy.—Southey, Curse of Av- 
hama (1809), 


Bret’rian Bull (The). Menede'mos 
of Eretria, in Eubce’a, was called “ [ull " 
from the bull-like breadth and gravity 
of his face. He founded the Eretrian 
school (fourth century B.c.). 


Eric, ‘‘Windy-cap," king of Sweden. 
He could make the wind blow from any 
quaries by simply turning his cap. 

ior arose the expression, ‘‘a capful of 
wind.” 


Erichtho [E£.rik’.tho], the famous 
Thessalian witch consulted by Pompey. 
—Lucan, Pharsalia, vi. 


Erickson (Sireyn), a fisherman at | 


Jarishof.—Sir W. 
(time, William IJI.). 


Erioc’tho, the witch in John Murston's 


Scott, The irute 


father of the immortals. Ereenia | 


oda, and Ereenia came to her | 
rescue. Ereenia was set upon by the | 











ERISICHTHON., 


tragedy called The Wonder of Women er 
Sophonisha (1605). 

Er’idan, the river Po, in Italy; a0 
called from Eridan (or Phaston). ibe 
fell into the stream when he overthrew 
the sun-car, 

Bo down the eller streums of Eridan, 
On either side bankt with a ly wall 
Whiter than beth, rakes the triam owen, 
And sings tls dirge, and fi 
Giles Fletcher, Cirie”s Triumph [over Death) (16M). 

Erig’ena (John Scotus), called ‘*Sco- 
tus the Wise.” He must not be con- 
founded with Duns Scotus, “the Subtle 
Doctor,” who lived some four centuries 
later. Erig@na died in 875, and Duns 
Scotus in 1308, 

Erig’one (4 syl.), the constellation 
Vurgo. She was the daughter of Icarios, 
an Athenian, who was murdered by some 
drunken peasants. Erigoné discovered 
the dead body by the aid of her father’s 
dog Mera, who became the star called 
Canis, 

“Wha ty companion sot preeminence [ote} 
Lord Brooke, Of MesiNey. 

Erill'yab (3 syl.), the widowed and 
deposed queen of the Hoamen (2 sgi.), 
an Indian tribe settled on a south branch 
of the Missouri, Her husband was 
Tepol'loni, and herson Amal’ahta. Madoc, 
when he reached America, espoused her 
cause, and succeeded in restoring her to 
her throne and empire.—Southey, Madoc 
(1805). 


Erin, from ear or tar (“west”) and 
in (‘‘island"'), the Western Island, Ireland, 


Eriphy'le (4 sy/.), the wife of Am- 
phiara’os. Heing bribed by a golden 
necklace, she betrayed to Polynt’cés where 
her husband had concealed himself that 
he might not go to the siege of Thebes, 
where he knew that he should be killed. 
Congreve calls the word Eriph’fle. 

When Eriphfl broke ber plighted faith, 
And for « bribe procured her husband's death. 
Ovid, Art of Looe, i, 

Er'iri or Er’eri, Snowdon, in Caer- 
narvonshire. The word means “ Eagle 
rocka.” 

In thie region ,Ordericia] Is the stupendous mountain 
Erirl —Hichand of Clrenmcester, On the Anetent State of 
Hritain, L €, 23 (fourteenth contary) 

Erisich'thon (should be Erysich- 
thon), & Thessalian, whose appetite was 
insatiable, Iiaving spent all his estate 
in the purchase of food, nothing was left 
but his daughter Metra, and her he sold 
to buy food for his voracious appetite; 
but Metra bad the power of tekiatoriatng 


EROTA. 


301 





a 


ERRORS OF AUTHORS. 





his name." Unlike Erostratos, the name 
of this knight has not transpired. 


Ero'ta, a very beautiful but most 
imperious princess, passionately beloved 
by Philander prince of Cyvpros.—PBenu- 
mont and Fletcher, The Laws of Candy 
(1647). 


Erra-Pater, on almanac, on alma- 
nac-maker, an astrologer. Samuel Butler 
ealls Lilly, the almanac-maker, an Erra- 
Pater, which we ore told was the name 
of a famous .ewish astrologer. 

Bis ently Bide wes on Erra- Pater, 
Phin. Fletcher, The Parjls Jahand, vil, (EET) 
What's here? Erra-Pater or a bearded silyl [the person 
ey a Looe for Looe, Iv. (1006). 

Erra 
navia). Aldo, a Caledonian chief, offered 
him his services, and obtained several 


important victories; but Lorma, the 


king's wife, falling in love with him, the | 


uilty pair escaped to Morven. Erragon 

Inv the country, and slew Aldo in 
single combat, but was himself slain in 
battle by Gaul, son of Morni. As for 
Lorma, she died of grief.—Ossian, The 
Batile of Lora. 


Errant Damsel (The), Una.—Spen- 
ser, Fuery Queen, iil. 1 (1590), 

Drrol ( (Filbert earl of), lord high con- 
stable of Scotland.—Sir W. Scott, Fair 
Muid of Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Error, 4 monster who lived in a den 
in “Wandering Wood," and with whom 
the Red Cross Knight had hia first ad- 
venture, She had a brood of 1000 young 
ones of sundry shapes, and these cubs 
crept into their mother's mouth when 
alarmed, a4 young kanparoos creep into 
their mother’s pouch. 
nearly killed by the stench which issued 
from the foul tiend, but he succeeded in 
“rafting her head off, whereupon the 


brood lapped up the blood, and burst | 


with satiety. 
Half Uke 4 serpent horribly displayed, 
Bert th’ other half lid woruuna's shape retalg .. . 
Avel aa she lay upeen the dirty creund, 
Mer bugs long tall her den all overnprend, 
Yet wae in knot ond many boughita | folds) upwound, 
Pointed with mrrtal silng. 
ipa, Pucry Quarn, L 1 (1500), 

Errors of Artists. (See ANa- 
CHRONISMB. ) 

Axoet.o (Michel), in hia great picture of 
the “Last Judgment," has introduced 
Charon’s bark. 

BaexGiect, the Dutch painter, in a 
picture of the “Wise Men of the East" 
making ther offerings ‘0 the infant Jesus, 


m, king of Lora (in Seandi- | 


The knight was | 





| fire by a salamander, and air by a camel 


has represented one of them dressed in a 


large white surplice, booted and spurred, 
offering the model of a Dutch seventy- 
four to the infant. 

Erry has placed bw the bedside of 
Holofernes a belmet of the period of the 
seventeenth century. 

Mazzocu! (Paulo), in his “‘Symbolical 
Painting of the Four Elements,” repre- 
sents the sea by fisies, the carth by emery 
Evidently he mistook the camehon (which 
traditionally lives on air) for a camel. 

TiNTORET, ina picture which representa 
the ‘‘ Israelites Gathering Manna in the 
Wilderness," has armed the men with 


ns. 

Veronese (Pewl), in his ** Marriage 
Feast of Cana of Galilee," has introduced 
among the guests several Benedictines. 

West, president of the Royal Academy, 
has represented Paris the Phrygian in 
Roman costume. 

Wesarminstkr HAL ia full of ab- 
surdities. Witness the following as 
epecimens :— 

Sir Clondesley Shovel is dressed in a 
Roman cuirass and sandals, but on his 
head is a full-bottomed wig of the 
elhteenth century. 

The duke of buckingham is arrayed in 
the coatume of a Roman emperor, and his 


| duchess in the court dress of George I. 


period, 

Errers of Authors. (See Ana- 
CUKUN ISM, ) 

AkcNStDE. He wiews the Ganges 
from Alpine heights.—SJleasures of Imayi- 
nal con. 

ALnison (Sir Archibad) says: “ Sir 
Pereyrine Pickle was one of the pall- 
bearers of the duke of Wellington."—Life 
of Lord Custlereajh, 

In his /fistury of Europe, the phrase 
drint de timbre (“stamp duty”) he trans- 
lates “timber duties,” 

ArtTicLes or Wak For THe ARsY. 
It ia ordered ‘*that every recruit shall 
have the 40th and 4th of the articles 
read to him” (art. iii,). 

The 40th article relates wholly to the 
misconduct of chuplains, and has no sort 
of concern with recruits. Probably the 
dist is meant, which is about mutiny and 


insuburdination. 
Browse (William). Ajellés’ Crrtasn, 
W. Browne says: 
If... leat my penet! to Apellis’ tnble [padentiog’ 
Gir dara io ee ia caieaie ( J 
Jritonmea's Psderaks, UO. 2 
This curtain was not drawn by Apelles, 








ERRORS OF AUTHORS. 


died Sunday June 26, 18380; and only 
George II. died on a Saturday, ‘‘ the day 
[9] to the present dynasty.” 
HAUCER says: ‘The throstle-cock 

sings so sweet a tune that Tubal himself, 
the first musician, could not equal it."— 
The Court of Love. Of course he means 
dnbal. 

CiBBER ( Colley), in his Love Makes a 

an, i.. makes los the student say) 
‘* For the cure of herds [ Virgil's] bucolic 
are a master-piece; but when his art 
describes the commonwealth of bees . . . 
I'm ravished.” He means the G 
the Bucolics are eclogues, and never touch 
upon either of these subjects. The 
diseases and cures of cattle are in Georgic 
iii., and the habits, etc., of bees, Georgic iv. 

cip (The). When Alfonso succeeded 
his brother Sancho and banished the Cid, 
Rodrigo is made to say: 





The historic fact is, not that Rodrigo 
rescued Alfonso from thirteen foes, but 
that the Cid rescued Sancho from thirteen 
of Alfonso's foes. Eleven he slew, and 
two he put to flight.— Zhe Cid, xvi. 78. 

Cotman. Job Thomberry says to 
Peregrine, who offers to assist him in his 
difficulties, ‘‘ Desist, young man, in time.” 
But Peregrine was at least 45 years old 
when so ad - He was 15 when 
Job first knew him, and had been absent 
thirty years in Calcutta. Job Thormberry 
himself was not above five or six years 
older. 

Cowper calls the rose ‘the glory of 
April and May,” but June is the great 
rose month. In the south of England 
they beyin to bloom in the latter half of 
May, and go on to the middle of July. 
April roses would be horticultural cu- 
riosities. 

Critics at fault. The licentiate tells 
don Quixote that some critics found fault 
with him for defective memory, and 
instanced it in this: ‘‘ We are told that 
Sancho’s ass is stolen, but the author has 
forgotten to mention who the thief was.” 
This is not the case, as we are distinctly 
informed that it was stolen by Gines de 
Passamonte, one of the galley-slaves.— 
Don Quirote, II. i. 8. , 

Dicxess, in Edwin Drood, puts “‘ rook 
and rooks' nests" (instead of daws) ‘in 
the towers of Cloisterham.” 

In Nicholas Nickleby he represents Mr. 
Squeers as setting his boys “to hoe 
turnips” in midwinter. 











ERRORS OF AUTHOKS. 


In The Tule of Two Cities, iii. 4, be 
says: ‘“‘The name of the strong man of 
Old Scripture descended to the chief 
functionary who worked the guillotine.” 
But the name of this functionary was 
Sanson, not Samson. 

GALEN says that man has seven bones 
in the sternum (instead of three); an‘ 
Sylvius, in reply to Vesalius, contends 
that “in days of yore the robust chests 
or heroes had more bones than men now 

ve.” 

GREENE (Robert) speaks of Delphos as 
an tsland ; but Delphos, or rather Delphi, 
was a city of ocis, and no island. 
‘*Six noblemen were sent to the isle of 
Delphos."—Donastus and Faunia. Pro- 
bably he confounded the city of Delphi 
with the isle of Delos. 

HALLIWELL, in his Archaic Dutionary, 
says: ‘*Crouchmas means Christmas, 
and adds that Tusser is his authority. 
But this is altogether a mistake. Tusser, 
in his ‘May Remembrances,” says: 
‘From bull cow fast, till Crouchmas be 
past,” se. St. Helen’s Day. Tusser evi- 
dently means from May 3 (the invention 
of the Cross) to August 18 (St. Helen's 
Day or the Cross-mas), not Christ-mas, 

Hicoons (Bevil) says: 

Cyprian queen, drawn by Apetiés’ 
beauty did the pattern stand ! 


Of perfect 
But then bright nymphs ‘rom evary part of Greses 
Did all contribute to adorn the plece. 


Te Sir Godfrey Knellor (1/6:). 
Tradition says that Apellés’ model was 
either Phryné, or Campaspé afterwards his 
wife. Campbell has borrowed Protog’eaks 

ut ascribes the painting to 
the Rhodian. ang 

When first the Rhodlan's mimic art 

The hanpy master mingled tn the plece 

Each look that charmed him in the fair of Greece. 
Pleasures ef Hepe, i 

JOHNSON (Dr.) makes Addison speak 
of Steele as ‘‘ Little Dicky,” whereas the 
person so called by Addison was not 

ichard Steele, but a dwarfish actor who 
played ‘“‘Gomez” in Dryden's Spanish 

ryar. 

Loxpox Newspaper (A), one of the 
leading journals of the day, has spoken 
three times within two vears of ‘* passing 
under the Caudine Forks,” evidently sup- 
posing them to be a ‘‘ yoke” instead of a 
valley or mountain . 

LONGFELLOW calls Erig’ena a Scotch- 
man, whereas the very word means an 
Irishman. 


Done into Latin by that Soottish beast, 
Erigena Jobanues 


Golden Legend, 
Witbout doubt, the poet mistook Johu 





eee 


ERRORS OF AUTHORS. 


805 





ERRORS OF AUTHORS 





pepper 5 (3) it was not the vizier his 
in-law and uncle, but his mother, 
the widow of Noureddin, who made the 
discovery, and why ? for the best of all 
reasons—because she herself had taught 
her son the receipt. The party were at 


Pamascus at the time.—Arabian Nights 
‘* Noureddin Ali,” etc.). (See next page, 
‘*Thackeray.”) 

heme to. be broken and devtoyed only Decaes 
(Kevin ie 

Again, sir Walter Scott speaks of 
“the philosopher who appealed from 
Philip inflamed with wine to Philip in his 
hours of sobriety ” (Antiquary, x.). This 
“s philosopher ” was a poor old woman. 

SHAKESPEARE. Althea and the Fire- 
brand. Shakespeare says (2 Henry JV. 
act ii. sc. 2) that ‘‘ Althea dreamt she was 
delivered of a fire-brand.” It was not 
Althea but Heciiba who dreamed, a little 
before Paris was born, that her offspri 
was a brand that consumed the kingdom.” 
The tale of Althwa is, that the Fates laid 
a log of wood on a fire, and told her that 
her son would live till that log was Con- 
sumed; whereupon she snatched up the 
log and kept it from the fire, till one day 
her son Melea’ger offended her, when 
she fiung the log on the fire, and her son 
died, as the Fates predicted. 

Bohemia's Coast. In the Winter’s Tale 
the vessel bearing the infant Perdita is 
‘driven by storm on the coast of Bohe- 
mia;” but Bohemia has no sea-board at 
all. 


In Coriolanus Shakespeare makes Vo- 
lumnia the mother, and Virgilia the wife, 
of Coriolanus; but his wife was Volum- 
siia, and his muther Veturia. 

(phi an Island. \n the same drama 
(act ini. sc. 1) Delphi is spoken of as an 
island ; but Delphi is a city of Phocis, 
containing a temple to Apollo. It is no 
island at all. 

Duncan's Murder. Macbeth did not 
murder Duncan in the castle of Inverness, 
as stated in the plav, but at “the smith’s 
house,” near Elgin (1039). 

Kisinorc. Stakespeare speaks of the 
“‘beetling cliff of Elsinore,” whereas 
Elsinore has no cliffs at all. 

What if it {the ghost) tempts you to the flood... 

Or to the dreadful) summit of the cliff 

That beeties o'er its base into the sea ? 

Hamlet, act i. se 4 

The Ghost, in HHumlet, is evidently a 
Roman Catholic: he talks of purgatory, 
absolution, and othar catholic dogmas ; 
but the Danes at the time were payans. 


St. Louis. Shakespeare, in i Vv. 
act i. sc. 2, calls Louis X. ‘St. Louis,” bet 
‘* St. Louis " was Louis JX. It was Louis 
IX. whose ‘‘ grandmother was Isabel,” 
issue of Charles de Lorraine, the last of 
he own lane, Bays X. was the son 
0 ilippe IV. (le , and grandson of 
Philippe III. and ‘Isabel of ” 
not Isabel ‘‘ heir of Capet, of the line of 
Charles the duke of Lorain.” r 

was no tyrant, as Shakespeare 
makes him out to be, but a firm and 
equitable prince, whose title to the throne 
was better than that of Duncan. 

Again, Macicth was not slain by Mac- 
duff at Dunsin’ane, but made his 
from the battle, and was slain, in 10: 
at Lomphanan.—Lardner, Cabinet Cyc., 

In The Winter's Tale, act v. sc. 2, 
one of the gentlemen refers to Julio 
Romano, the Jtalian artist and architect 
(1492-1546), certainly some 1800 years 
or more before Romano was born. 

In Twelfth Nwht, the Illyrian clown 
speaks of St. Bennet’s Church, London. 
‘* The triplex, sir, is a good tripping mea- 
sure, or the bells of St. Bennet’s sure may 
put you in mind: one, two, three” (act v. 
sc. 1); as if the duke was a Londoner. 

SpensER. Bacchus or Saturn? In 
the Faéry Queen, iii. 11, Britomart saw 
in the castle of Bu’sirane (3 sy/.), a pic- 
ture descriptive of the love of Saturn, 
who had changed himself into a centaur 
out of love for Erig’oné. It was not 
Saturn but Bacchus who loved Engoné, 
and he was not transformed to a centaur, 
but to a horse. 

Benoné or Enoné? In bk. vi. 9 (Faéry 
Queen) the lady-love of Paris is called 
Benoné, which ouyht to be Endné. The 

t says that Paris was ‘‘ bv Plexippus’ 

rook" when the golden apple was 

brought to him; but no such brook is 
mentioned by any classic author. 

Critias and Socrates. In bk. ii. 7 (Faéry 
Queen) Spenser says: ‘‘ The wise Socra- 
tés . . . poured out his life . . . to the 
dear Critias; his dearest bel-amie.” It 
was not »ocratés but ‘Theram’enés, one 
of the thirty tyrants, who, in quaff 
the poison-cup, said smiling, ‘‘ This 
drink to the health of fair Critias.”— 
Cicero, Zusculun Questions. 

Critias or Crito? In Faéry Queen, iv. 
(introduction), Spenser says that Socra- 
tés often discoursed of love to his triend 
Critias; but it was Crito, or rather Criton, 
that the poet means, 

Cyprus and Paphos. Spenser makes 


x 





ERRUA. 


Tn PKC iii. 171, Virgil makes ness 
speak of “' Ausonia;" but as Italy was 
so called from Anson, son of Uiysses and 
Calypso, of course /Eneas could not have 
known the name. 


Aguin, in .dneid, ix. 571, he repre- 


sents Chorinwus as slain by Asy'las ; but | 


in bk, xii. 298 he is alive again. Thus : 
OChorlnaum slernlt Asp les. 


Bk. tz. G71, 
Then: 
Civiue am bastom torrem Chorinas ab ara 
Corripit ef venient! Huse Bagaandve ue ferent 
: ; Bk il 994, ote 


Again, m_ bk. ix. Numa is slain by 
Nisus (ver. 554); but in bk. x. 562 Noma 
is alive, and nens kills him. 

Once more, in bk. x. Aneas slays 
Camertés (ver. 562); but in bk. xii. 224 
Jaturna, the sister of Turnus, assumes 
his shape. But if he was dead, no one 
would have been deluded into supposing 
the figure to be the living man. 

«” Of course, every intelligent reader 
will be able to add to this list; but no 
more space can be allowed for the subject 
in this dictionary. 


Er’rua (“‘the mad-cap"), a young 
mrn whose wit defeated the strength of the 
giant Tartaro (a sort of one-eyed Poly- 
pheme). Thus the first competition was in 
throwing a stone. The giant threw his 
stone, but Errua threw a bird, which the 
giant supposed to be a stone, and as it 

out of sight, Erroa won the wager. 

The next wager was to throwa bar of iron, 
After the giant had thrown, Errua said, 
‘* From here to Salamanca ;" whereupon 
the giant bade him not to throw, lest the 
bar of iron should kill his father and 
mother, who lived there; so the giant lost 
the second wager. The third was to pull 
a tree up by the roots; and the giant gave 
in because Errun bad run a cord round a 
host of trees, and said, “‘ You pull up one, 
but I pull up all these." The next ex- 
ploit was at bed-time: Errun was to 
sleep in a certain Led; but he placed a 
dead man in the bed, ‘while he himaeclf 
got under it. At midnight Tartaro took 
is cluband belaboured the dead body most 
unmercifully. When Errun stood before 
Tartaro next morning, the giant was 
dumfoundered. 
had slept, ‘“‘Excellently well,” said 
Errua, “but somewhat troubled by 
lens.” 
alweys in favour of Errun, At length a 
race was proposed, and Errua sewed into 
a bag the bowels of a pig. When hi 


Ile asked Errua how he | 


Other trials were made, but | 
| lord in the deputation of the duke of 
Measure for Mes 








807 ESCALUS, 





started, he ci the bag, strewing 

bowels on the road Tartans bea 
told that his rival had done this to make 
himself more fleet, he cut hia belly, and 
of course killed himeelf. ig W. Web- 


ctistaaee sory ote d and the 
exploita of Jack the (Gianf-hiller, See 
also eentelr 8 Popular Tales of the West 
Highland doe} 827, and Grimm's Valiané 


Tattle Tai 

Erse I), the native of 
the West tenders or iim ekry 
Gaelic is a better word, 

*," Erse is a corruption of Irish, from 
the” supposition that these Highlanders 
were a colony from Ireland; but whether 
the Insh came from Scotland or the 
Scotch from Ireland, is one of those 
knotty points on which the two nations 
will never agree. (See Fin-no.a.) 


Erskine (The Rev. Dr.), minister of 
Greyfriars’ Charch, Edinburgh,—Sir W. 
Scott, Guy Mannering (time, George II.) 


Er'tanax, a fish common in the 
Euphrates. The bones of this fish impart 
courage and strength. 


A flash... haunteth the flood of Eufretiy. .. Tk lp 
ealied an ertanax, and bis bores be of such a manner ol 
ans that whos handleth them he mot hare so mock 

‘oy oor sorry that ba bath ad be shall oot 
_ 


chink on Joy nor sorrow that be b = 
the th he wh Bn 


beboldeth before h 
Hiatery af Prisce Arthar, bi hare ted 

Erudite (Jost). Marcus Terentius 
Varro is called “the most erudite of the 
Romans" (#.c, 116-27). 

Erythre’an Main (The), the Red 
Sea, The “ Erythreum Maré" included 
the whole expanse of sex between Arabia 
and Africa, including the Red Sea and the 
Persian Gulf, 

The ruddy waves be cleft in twaln 


Of the Erythran nialn. 
Milton, Palm comer. (1a 


_Er’ythre, Modesty personified, the 
virgin page of Parthen'ia or maiden 
chastity, in The Purple Jsland, by Phineas 
Fletcher eel Fully grog ee in 
canto x. ((rreek, crufAjrog, “ red," from 

eruthriao, “* to blush, ") 

Erysichthon [£rri.sik'’.tion), agrand- 
gon of Neptune, who was punished by 
Cerés with insatiable hunger, for cutting 
down some trees in a grove sacred to that 
goddess. (See ExisicuTwHon.) 


Es'calus, an ancient, kind-hearted 


Vienna.—Shakespeare, 
cure (16038). 





ESTIFANIA. 


Chancery. Eventually she marries Allan 
Woodcourt, a surgeon.—C. Dickens, 
Bleak House (1852). - 


Estifa’nia, an intriguing woman, 
servant of donna Margaritta the Spanish 
heiress. She palms herself off on don 
Michael Perez (the copper captain) as an 
heiress, and the mistress of Margaritta’s 
mansion. The captain marries her, and 
finds out that all her swans are only 
Geoee.— Beaumont and Fletcher, Rule a 

ife and Have a Wife (1640). 
pie tay StS ae at 
Centiivre) ""Eatilanin§ * Doll Commmda” [ho a obemied. 
B, Jonson} —Charies Dibdin. 

Est-il-Possible ? a nickname given 
to George of Denmark (queen Annc’s 
husband), because his general remark to 
the most startling announcement was 
Est & possible? With this exclamation he 
exhausted the vials of his wrath. It was 
James II. who gave him the sobriquet. 





Est'’mere (2 syl.), king of England. 
He went with his younger brother Adler 
to the court of king Adlands, to crave his 
daughter in marriage; but king Adlands 
replied that Bremor, the sowdan or sultan 
of Spain, had forestalled him. However, 
the lady, being consulted, gave her voice 
in favour of the king of England. While 
Estmere and his brother went to make 
preparations for the wedding, the ‘‘sow- 
dan” arrived, and demanded the lady to 
wife. A messenger was immediately de- 
spatched to inform Estmere, and the two 
brothers returned, disguised as a harper 
and his boy. They gained entrance into 
the palace, and Adler sang, saying, 
“© ladve, this is thy owne true love; 
no harper, but a king;" and then drawing 
his sword he slew the ‘‘ sowdan,” Est- 
mere at the same time chasing from the 
ball the ‘“‘kempery men.” ing now 
master of the position, Estmere took 
“the ladve faire,” made her his wife, and 
brought her home to England.—Percy, 
Relsques, 1. i. 5. 


Estot’iland, a vast tract of land in 
the north of America. Said to have been 
discovered by John Scalvé, a Pole, in 
1477. 


Estrildis or Elstred, daughter of 
the emperor of Germany. She was taken 
captive in war by Locrin (king of 
Britain), by whom she became the mother 


809 ETHIOPIANS. 





of Sabrin or Sabre. Gwendolen, the 
wife of Locrin, feeling insulted by this 
liaison, slew her husband, and had 
Estrildis and her daughter thrown into a 
river, since called the Sabri’na or Sevorn. 
—Geoffrey, British History, ii. 2, etc. 





Polyotdion, vi. (1612). 
Ete’ocles and Polyni’ces, the two 


sons of (E’dipos. After the expulsion of 
their father, these two young princes 
to reign alternate years in Thebes. 


teoclés, being the elder, took the firat 
turn, but at the close of the year refusec 
to resign the sceptre to his brother; 
whereupon Polynicés, aided by six other 
chiefs, laid siege to the city. The two 
brothers met in combat, and each was 
slain by the other’s hand. 

*,* A similar fratricida] s le is 
told of don Pedro of Castile and his half- 
brother dun Henry. When don Pedro 
had estranzed the Castilians by his 
cruelty, dua Henry invaded Castile with 
a body of French auxiliaries, and took 
his brother prisoner. Don Ilenry visited 
him in prison, and the two brothers fell 
on each other like lions. Henry wounded 
Pedro in the face, but fell over a bench, 
when Pedro seizedhim. At that moment 
a Frenchman seized Tedro by the ley, 
tossed him over, and Henry slew him,— 
Menard, History of Du Gueac.in. 

(This is the subject of ore of Lock- 
hart’s Spanish ballads.) 


Eth’elbert, king of Kent, end the 
first of the Angio-Saxon kings who was 
a Christian. He persuaded Gregory to 
send over Augustine to convert the Eng- 
lish to ‘‘ the true faith” (596), and buiit 
St. Paul's, London.—Ethelwerd's Chro- 
nicle, ii. 

Good Ethelbert of Kent, first christened king, 
To preach the faith of Christ was first did hither bring 
Wise Au’gustine the monk, from boly Gregory sent . . . 
That mighty fane to Paul in London did erect. 
Drayton, Polyelbion, xi (1613). 

Eth’erington (The late earl of), 
father of Tyrrel and Bulmer. 

The titular earl of Etherington, his suc- 
cessor to the title and estates. 

Marie de Martigny (Lu comtesse), wife 


of the titular earl of Etherington. —Sir 
W. Scott, Ronan’s eli (time, 
George III.). 


Ethiopians, the same as Abas- 
sinians. The Arabians call these people 
El-habasen or Al-habasen, whence our 
Abassins, but thev call themselves Ithis- 








EUCLIO. 


hence this style of head was called 
ata Fontange) oe 


Bu’ clio, & penurious old hunks.— 
wularia. 


Plautus, A 
in al} this to me, uales 


Now you mast 
= 
Mu'crates (8 syl.), the miller, and 
ome ct fhe valway of Athens. a A 
uffiing fellow, always evadi uty 
and breaking his his promise ; ; fence the 
Latin proverb: 


Vies Recrates (“ He hes 
1 novi. oles taciat ( more 


Budo’cia (4 syl.), daughter 
Ku'menés oversor of Damaccee Pho 


cyas, general of the Syrian forces, bein 
im love with her, asks the consent of 
Eam and is refused. In revenge, he 

over to the Arabs, who are besieging 
amascua. Eudocia is taken captive, 
but refuses to wed a traitor. At the end, 
Pho’cyas » dies, and ee The Se Sone r 
nannery.—John es, t) 
Damascus (1720). 


Eudon (Count) of Cantabria. A baron 
favourable to the Moors, “too weak- 
minded to be independent.” When the 
Spaniards rose Up against the Moors, the 
first order of the Moorish chief was this: 
*¢ Strike off count Eudon's head; the fear 
which brought him to our camp will bring 
him else in arms inst us now” (ch. 
ray }—Southey, oderick, etc., xiii. 
(181 


Eudox’ia, wife of the emperor 
Valentin’ian. » Petro’ nius Max’imus ‘ poi- 
soned” the emperor, and the empress 
killed Maximus.—Beaumontand Fletcher, 
Valentinian (1617). 


Euge’nia, called ‘‘ Silence” and the 


**Unknown.” She was wife of count de 
Valmont, and mother of Florian, ‘the 
foundling of the forest.” In order to 


come into the property, baron Longueville 
used every endeavour to kiil Eugenia and 
Florian, but all his attempts were abortive, 
and his villainy at length was brought to 
light. —W. Dimond, Zhe Foundling of the 


mio, a young gentleman who 
goat-herd, because Leandra jilted 


him and elo with a heartlesa adven- 
turer, named Vincent de la Rosa.—Cer- 
vantes, Don Quixote, I. iv. 20 (‘* The 


Goat-herd's Story,” 1605). 


Buge’ nius, the friend and wise coun- 
ealor of Yorick. John Hall Stevenson 





811 


EUPHRASIA. 


was the original of this character 
Sterne, Zyistram Shandy (1759). 


Buhe'meros, s a Sicilian Greek, who 
wrote a History to explain the 
historical or allegorical character of the 
Greek and Latin mythologies. 

One could wish Eub@nérus had been bern. 38 
wan be who apt (the old pth} rt Ou, Artec 

Eulenspi ad ft i li 
Owlglass,” of aan whe 
runs through the world a as v charlatan, 
lansquenet, domestic servant, artist, an 
ot | thane bet renee He undertakes an 

ut rejoices in eating ose W. ° 

employ him ; he verbs, re~ 
joices in mischief, and brimful "od 
pranks and drolleries. Whether Eulen- 
spiegel was a real character or not is a 
matter of dispute, but by many the au- 
thorahip of the book recording his jokes 
is attributed to the famous German sat- 


irist, Thomas Murner. 
In the English versions of the story he 
is called Howle-glaes. 


To few mortals has it been ted to earn such a place 
in uviversal history ae Tyll Now, after five 
centuries, bis native is ted out with pride te 
the traveller.—Cartyle. 


Eumsos (in Latin, Zumcaus) 
slave and swine-herd of Ulysses, hence 
any swine-herd. 


Eu'menes (8  syi.), governor of 
Damasc and father of Eudo’cia.— 
John Huyhes, Siege of Damascus (1720). 


Eumnes'tes, Memory personified. 
Spenser says he is an old man, decrepit 
and half blind. He was waited on by a boy 
named Anamnestés. (Greek, eumnésti 
‘* good memory,” anamnéstis, research.”} 
—Fatry Queen, i ii. 9 (1590). 

which oud [praight commics them a patho 
Burnrestes old, who in his Piving acteen 

His living breast) the rolls and records 
d hecpe locked up fy fathfl regatora 

APP hin Fletcher, The Purple ldend, vi. (108Be. 


Bu'noe (3 syi.), a river of purgatory 
a draught of which makes the mi recall 
all the good deeds and Good offices of 
life. It is a little beyond Lethé or the 
river of forgetfulness. 

Lo! where Bunce flows, 
Lead thither; and, as thou art woat, revive 
Danté, Purgatory, 1xxil, (138, 

Euphra’sia, daughter of lord 
a character resembling ‘‘ Viola” in Shake~ 
speare’s Twelfth Niyht. Being ip love 
with prince Philaster, she assumes boy’s 
attire, calls herself “ Bellario,” and 





EVELYN. 


815 











Clara Douglas, a dependent of ladv Frank- 
lin's, but she was poor also, and declined 
to marry him. Scarcely had she refused 
him, when he was left an immense fortune 
and proposed to Georgina Vesey. What 
little heart Georgina had was given to 
sir Frederick Blount, but the great fortune 
of Evel made her waver; however, 
being told that Evelyn's property was in- 
secure, she married Frederick, and left 
Evelyn free to marry Clara.—Lord L. 
Bulwer Lytton, Money (1840). 


Evelyn (Sir George), a man of for- 
tune, family, and character, in love with 
Dorrillon, whom he marries.—Mrs. Inch- 
bald, Wives as they Were and Maids as 
they Are (1795). 


Even Numbers are reckoned un- 
lucky. 

The ...crow... cried twice: this even, air, fe no 
good namber.—f. &., The Honcet Lawyer (16) 

Among the Chinese, Acaren ts odd. and earth even. 
The numbers 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, belong to yang or heaven; but 
& 4 6, 8, 10, belong to yin or carth.—Rev. Mr. Edkins. 

*.* Shakespeare says. ‘‘there is divinity 
in odd numbers" (Merry Wives of Wi 
gor, act v. sc. 1, 1590). 


Everard (Colonel Markham), of the 
mmonwealth party. 
Master Everard, the colonel's father.— 
Sir W. Scott, Woodstock (time, Common- 
wealth). 


Ev’erett (Master), a hired witness of 
the ‘‘Popish Plot.”—Sir W. Scott, Lever 
of the Peak (time, Charles I].,. 


Every Man in His Humour, a 
comedy by Ben Jonson (1598). The 
original play was altered by David 
Garrick. The persons to whom the title 
of the drama apply are: ‘captain 
Bobadil,” whose humour is bragging of 
his brave deeds and military couraye— 
he is thrashed as a coward by Down- 
right; ‘‘Kitely,” whose humour is jea- 
lousy of Lis wife—he is befooled and 
cured by a trick played on him by Brain- 
worm ; ‘‘Stephen,” whose humour is 
verdant stupidity—he is played on by 
every one; ‘ Kno’well,” whose humour 
is suspicion of his son Edward, which 
turns out to be all moonshine; ‘ Dame 
<itely,” whose humour is jealousy of her 
husband, but she (like her husband) is 
cured by a trick devised by Brainworm. 
Every man in his humour is liable to be 
duped thereby, for his humour is the 
** Achilles’ heel” of his character. 


Every Man out of His Hu- 
mour, a comedy by Ben Jonson (1599). 


EWART. 
Every One has His Fault, a 
comedy by Mrs. Inchbald (1794). By 


the fault of rigid pride, lord Norland 
discarded his daughter, lady Eleanor, 
because she married inst his consent. 
By the fault of gallantry and defect of dne 
courtesy to his wife, sir Robert Ramble 
drove lady Ramble intv a divorce. By 
the fault of irresolution, ‘‘Shall I marry or 
shall I not?” Solus remained a miserabla 
bachelor, pining for a wife and domestic 
joys. By the fault of deficient spirit and 
manliness, Mr. Placid was a hen-pecked 
husband. By the fault of marrying with- 
out the consent of his wife's friends, Mr. 
Irwin was reduced to poverty and even 
crime. Harmony healed these faults: 
lord Norland received his daughter into 
favour; sir Robert Ramble took back his 
wife ; Solus married Misa Spinster ; Mr. 
Placid assumed the rights of the head 
of the family; and Mr. Irwin, being 
accepted as the son-in-law of lord Nor- 
land, was raised from indigence to do- 
mestic comfort. 

Evil May-Day, May 1, 1517, when 
the apprentices committed great excesses, 
especially ayainst foreigners; and the 
constable of the Tower discharged his 
cannons on the opulace. The tamuit 
beyan in Cheapside (time, Henry VII1.). 


Eviot, page to sir John Ramomy 
(master of the horse to prince Robert 
of Scotland).—Sir W. Scott, Fair Maid 
of Perth (time, Henry IV.). 

Evir-Allen, the white-armed daugh- 
ter of Branno an Irishman. ‘A thousand 
heroes sought the maid; she refused her 
love to a thousand. The sons of the 
sword were despised, for eful in ber 
eyes was Ossian.” This Evir-Allen was 
the mother of Oscar, Fingal's grandson ; 
but she was not alive when Fingal went 
to Ireland to assist Cormac ayainst the 
invading Norsemen, which forms the 
subject of the poem called Fingal, in six 
books.—Ussian, Finyal, iv. 

Ew’ain (Sir), son of king Vrience 
and Morgan le Fay (Arthur's half-sister). 
—Sir TT. Malory, J/istory of Prince 
Arthur, i. 72 (1470). 

Ewan of Brigglands, a horse- 
soldier in the army of Montrose.—Sir W. 
Scott, Rob Roy (time, George I.). 


Ewart (Nanty, t.e. Anthony), cap 
tain of the smugyler’s brig.—Sir W. 
Scott, Red jauntiet (time, Geurge IH.). 


Excal’'ibur, king Arthur's famous 





EYRE, 


— 


Tartaro, in Basque legends, was a one- 
eyed giant. Sindbod the sailor, in his 





ird voyage, was cast on an island in- 
habited by one-eyed giants. 


Eyre (Janc), a governess, who stoutly 
copes with adverse circumstances, and 
ultimately marries a used-up man of 
fortune, in whom the germs of good 
feeling and sound sense were only ex- 
hausted and not destroved.—Charlotte 
Bronté, Jane Eyre (1847). 


Ez’zelin (Sir), the gentleman who 
recognizes Lara at the table of lord Otho, 
and charges him with being Conrad the 
corsair. A duel ensues, and Ezzelin is 
never heard of more. A serf used to say 
that he saw a huntsman one evening 
cast a dead body into the river which 
divided the lands of Otho and Lara, and 
that there was a star of kniyzhthood on 
the breast of the corpse.—Byron, Lara 
(1814). 


F 


Faa (Gabriel), nephew of Meg 
Merrilies. One of the huntsmen at 
Liddesdale.—Sir W. Scott, Guy Munner- 
ing (time, George I1.). 


Fab’ila, a king devoted to the chase. 
One day he encountered a wild boar, and 
commanded those who rode with him not 
to interfere, but the boar overthrew him 
and gored him to death.—Chrunicu An- 
tigua de Espufa, 121. 

Fa'bius (The American), 
Washington (1732-1799). 

Fa'bius (The French), Anne duc de 
Montmorency, grand-constable of France 


(1493-1567). 

Fabricius [ Fa.brish’.e.us}, an old 
Roman, like Cincinnatus and Curius 
Dentatus, a type of the rigid purity, 
frugality, and honesty of the ‘‘ good old 
times.” Pyrrhos used every effort to 
corrupt him by bribes, or to terrify 
him, butinvain. ‘* Excellent Fabricius,” 
cried the Greek, ‘tone might hope to 
turn the sun from its course as soon as 
turn Fabricius from the path of duty.” 


Fabric’ius, an author, whose composition 
was so obscure that Gil Blas could not 
eomprehend the meaning of a single line 
of hie writings. lis poetry was verbose 


George 





817 


—_———D 


FPADLADEEN. 
fustian, and his prose a maze of far- 
fetched expressions and perplexed 
phrases. 

“If not Intelligihle,” said Fabricius, ‘‘so much the 
better. The natural and dmple won't do for sonnets, 
odes, and the mublime. The merit of these is their 
obecurity, and it is quite sufficient Ifthe author hinsself 
thinks be understaruls them. .. . There are five or six 
of us who bave undertaken to introduce a thorough 
change, and we will do so, Ip spite of Lopé de Vegu 
Cervantes, and all the fine geniuses who cavil af us.”- 
Lesage, (4 Slaa, ¥. 123 (1724). 

Fabrit’io, a merry soldier, the friend 
of captain Jac’omo the woman-hater.— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe Captain 
(1613). 

Face (1 syi.), alias “Jeremy,” house- 
servant of Lovewit. During the absence 
of his master, Face leagues with Subtle 
(the alchemist) and Dol Common to tum 
a penny by alcheiny, fortune-telling, and 
magic. Subtle (a beggar who knew 
something about alchemy) was discovered 
by Face near Pye Corner. Assuming the 

shilesopher’s garb and wand, he called 
fimoelf ‘* doctor ;"" Face, arrogating the 
title of ‘‘captain,” touted for dupes; 
while Dol Common kept the house, and 
aided the other two in their general 
scheme of deception. On the unexpected 
return of Lovewit, the whole thing blew 
up, but Face was forgiven, and continued 
in his place as house-servant.—Ben 
Jonson, The Alchemist (1610). 


Face Index of the Mind. 


Fair on the face (Goad) wrote the index of the mind. 
Phineas Fletcher. The Purple /eland, v. (1633), 


Facto’tum (Johannes), one employed 
to do all sorts of work for another; one 
in whom another contides for all the odds 
and ends of his household management or 
business. 

He is an absolute Johannes Pactotum, at least in hlsown 
conce:t.—Greene, Groat’e-worth of Wit (15972). 

Faddle (William), a ‘fellow made 
up of knavery and noise, with scandal for 
wit and impudence for raillery. He was 
so needy that the very devil might have 
bought him for a guinea.” Sir Charles 
Raymond says to him: 


** Thy life isa disgrace to humanity. A foolish prodigality 
makes thee needy; need makes thee viclous; and butb 
uiake thee contemptible. Thy wit is prostituted toslander 
and buffounery; and thy Jud<ment, ff thou hast any, to 
tineanness and villainy. Thy better-, that laugh with 
thee, Inugh at thee; and all the varieties of thy life are 
but pitiful rewards and painful abuses. "--Ed. Moore, The 
Foundling, tv. 2 (17-48). 


Fa'dha (A), 
cuirass. 

Fadladeen, the great nazir’ or 
chamberlain of Aurungze’bé’s harem. 
He criticizes the tales told tc Lalla Rookh 
by a young poet on her way to Delhi, and 








Mahomet's silver 


FAIRBROTHER,. 819 


wedding day that she had been seduced 
by Lotha’rio. This led to a duel between 
the bridegroom and the libertine, in which 
Lothario was killed ; a street riot ensued, 
in which Sciolto received his death- 
wound ; and Calista, ‘‘ the fair penitent,” 
stabbed herself. This drama 1s a mere 
réchauffé of Massinger’s Fatal Dowry. 

*,* For Fair Maids and Fair ——, see 
the propes name or titular name. 


Fairbrother (2/r.), counsel of Effie 
Daans at the trial.—Sir W. Scott, Heart 
of Midlothian (time, George II.). 


Fairfax (Thomas lord), father of 
the duchess of Buckingham.—Sir W. 
Scott, Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles 

.)- 

Fairfield, the miller, and father of 
Patty “the maid of the mill.” An 
honest, straightforward man, teful 
and modest.—Bickerstaff, Zhe uid of 
the Mill (1647). 

Fairford (Mr. Alecander or Saun- 
ders), a lawyer. 

Allan Fairford, a young barrister, son 
of Saunders, and a friend of Darsie 
Latimer. He marries Lilias Redgauntlet, 
sister of sir Arthur Darsie Redgauntlet, 
called ‘‘ Darsie Latimer.” 

Peter Fairford, Allan’s cousin.—Sir W. 
Scott, Redyauntlet (time, George III.). 

Fairleigh (Frank), the pseudonym 
of F. E. Smedley, editor of Sharpe's 
London Mayazine (1848, 1849). It was 
in this magazine that Smedley’s two 
novels, Frank Fairleiyh and Lewis Arun- 
dei, were first published. 


Fairlimb, sister of Bitelas, and 
daughter of Rukenaw the ape, in the 
heast-epic called Keynard the Fur (1498). 


Fair’scrieve (2 syl.), clerk of Mr. 
James Middleburgh, a mayistrate of 
Edinburgh.—Sir W. Scott, Heart of Bfid- 
luthian (time, George 11.). 


Fairservice (Jfr.), a magistrate’s 
clerk.—Sir W. Scott, Heart of Afid- 
luthwn (time, George 1I.). 


Fairservice (Andrew), the humorous 
Scotch gardener of sir Hildebrand Os- 
baldistone, of Osbaldistone Hall.—Sir 
W. Scott, Rob Roy (time, George I.). 

Overfiowing with a humour as peculiar in ite way as the 
@.cnours of Andrew Fairservice.— London Athena@um. 

Fairstar (Princess), daughter of 
queen Blon’dina (who had at one birth 
two boys and a girl, all ‘‘with stirs 
on their foreheads, and a chain of g“d 
about thcir necks”). (ua the same day, 





FAKENIIAM GHOST. 


Blondina’s sister Brunetta (wife of the 
king’s brother) had a son, afterwards 
called Chery. The queen-mother, wishin 
to destroy these four children, orde 
Fein’tisa to strangle them, but Feintisa 
sent them adrift in a boat, and told the 
queen-mother they were gone. It sc 
happened that the boat was seen by a 
corsair, who brought the children to his 
wife Cor’sina to bring up. The corsair 
soon grew immensely rich, because every 
time the hair of these children was 


‘ combed, jewels fell from their heads. 


When grown up, these castaways went 
to the land of their royal father and his 
brother, but Chery was for a while em- 
ployed in getting for Fairstar (1) The 
dancing water, which had the gift of 
imparting beauty ; (2) Zhe singing apple, 
which had the gift of imparting wit; 
and (3) Zhe green bird, which could 
reveal all secrets. By this bird the story 
of their birth was made known, and 
Fairstar married her cousin Chery.—Com- 
tesse D’Aunoy, Juiry Zales (‘‘ Princess 
Fairstar,” 1682), 

*,* This tale is borrowed from the 
fairy tales of Straparola, the Milanese 
(1550). 


Faithful, a companion of Christian 
in his walk to the Celestial Citv. Both 
were seized at Vanity Fair, and Faithful, 
being burnt to death, was taken to heaven, 
in a chariot of fire.—Bunyau, Pilgrim's 
Progress, i. (1678). 


Faithful (Jacob), the title and hero of a 
sea tale, by Captain Marryat (1835). 


Faithful (Father of the), Abraham 
—Rom. iv. ; Gal. iii. 6-9. 


Faithful Shepherdess (The), 9 
pastora' drama by John Fletcher (1610). 

he ‘‘ faithful shepherdess" is Cor’in, 
whose lover was dead. Faithful to his 
memory, Corin retired from the busy 
world, employing her time in works of 
humanity, such as healing the sick, exor- 
cizing the bewitched, and comforting the 
atilicted. 

(A part of Milton’s Comus is almost a 
verbal transcript of this pastoral.) 


Fakar (Dhu'l), Mahomet’s scimitar, 


Fakenham Ghost (Zhe). An old 
woman, walking to Fakenham, had to 
cross the churchyard after night-fall. 
She heard a short, quick step bebind, and 
looking round saw what she fanciod to 
be a four-footed mcnster. On she ran, 
faster and faster, and on came the patier- 








FAMOUS. 821 





In the king's army, “sir John” was 
5 oP 

captain, ‘ Peto” lieutenant, ‘' listo! ” 
ancient [ensign], and ‘‘ Dardolph" cor- 
poral. 

C. R Leatle eps “ Quin’s * Falta!’ most have been 
glorious, Sluce Garfick's thse there bare bern more thaw 
s. * Richart,” ‘Hamlet, * Komen,” * Macbeth,” mod 


but since Quis [1 Ge-Iiud) ouly coe * Faletady,* 
John “ef fake, (Lia7-17 88," 


(Robert William Elliston (1v74-1831) 
was the beac of all ‘‘Falstaffs."” His was 
a wonderful combination of wit, humour, 
sensuality, and philosophy, but he was 
ulways the gentleman.) 

Faulstal, unimitate!, fulmitable Falstaff, how shall 
I describe thee? Thoo compound of muse an| vice: of 
eres which may be aalerb tat mot en : nf rice 
which omy be desplesd, but bardly detested, ‘* Pols ~ 
fs character buaded with falta, aia) with those faults 
wijboh | prollace Coat beara rt He age thief and o 
gluilton, a cower! ond o always memady to cheat 
the weak gud prey upon the poor, to terrify the Umar 
ard [rowlt the defenorles, At once oberqul ia md malig: 
nu, pet the man thi corrupt, this desj-icobls, makes 
hlnel! pocemury to the prince by perpetual galcty, and 
by unfailing power of exclulug lougltar,—Dr, Jubosun, 


Famous. “I woke one morning and 
found myself famous.” So said Byron, 
after the publication of cantos i. and ii. 


of his Chude Hurvld (1412). 


Fanciful (Lady), a vain, conceited 
beauty, who calls herself “nice, strangely 
nict, and says she was formed “to make 
the whole creation uneasy.” She loves 
Jlenartfree, a railer a; enim woman, and 
when he proposes marriage to Iielinda, a 
rival beauty, spreads a must impudent 
evandal, which, however, reflects only on 
herself, Heartfree, who at one time waa 
partly in love with her, save to ber: 

“Nature made you handseme, gave you beawty to o 
qilracls, o Ging witlhuut a fal, wit eomgh to oiake 
Cthirin relish . hat mrt fie mle pou bere The pally of 
Gur ST, eral tle jest of peor own. There's pet o foalure 
fe sour fare hut pou howe fd Cee ony bo Leech (f eon 
eilected coorulsion. Yur feet, your hands, your very 
fogerends, are direchal never lu move withwol mone 
Tiliciilioe alr, awd poe Lect le a eltebde Prompt Lo 
draw peqples eyes upon the roel * jot LL 1).— Ven 
brugh, The Proeoked Wife | Liar) 


Fan-Fan, alias Phelin O’T ug, ‘a 
lolly-pop maker, and manifacturr of 
mails of bonowr to the court." 
merry, shy, and blundering elf, concealed 
in a bear-skin, makes love to Christine, 
the faithful attendant on the countess 
Marie. VPhelin (Tug saya his mother 
was too bashful ever to let him know her, 
and his father always kept in the back- 
ground.—K, Stirling, The J’risoner of 
State (1847). 


Fang, 0 bullying, inselent magistrate, 
who would have sent Oliver ‘Twist to 
nson, on Susp cin of theft, if Mr. 
rowulow had not interposed on the 


This | 








FARINATA. 


boy's behalf,—C, Dickens, Oliver Tote 

(lasy). 
The rel of this Me ballring magizirate 
was Mr. rig, of Harton ranived (rom Che 
tie —John Foster, Lifs af 





Fang and Snare, two sheriff's 
tr oe -—Shakespeare, 2 Henry JVs 
5 


Fanny (Lord), So John lord Her- 


| vey was usually called by the wita of the 


time, in consequence of his effeminate 
habits, His appearance was that of a 
“half wit, half fool, half man, half beau,” 
He used ronge, drank ass's milk, and took 
Scotch pills (1694-1743). 

Conmlt lord Fin 

Kyron, Eusltch birds ond Bonteh = ‘Bovianera (1306). 

Fonny (Miss), younger daughter of 
Mr. Sterling, a nch City merchant. She 
was clandestinely married to Lovewell. 
“Gentle-looking, soft-speaking, sweet- 
siniling, and aflable,” wanting “nothing 
but a crook in ber hand and a lamb under 
her arm w be a rfect icture of inno- 
cence and simplicity.” very une loved 
her, aud as her niarriage was a secret, sir 


| Joho Melvil and lord “Oyleby both pre- 


posed to her. Ulcer marriage with Love- 
wel] being ultimately made known, her 
dilemma was removed,—Colman and 
Garrick, The Clandestine Marriaye (1766). 


_ Fan'teries (3 sy/.), foot-soldiers, 
infantry. 
Five other bandes of Finellah fanteries, 
G. Gascoigne, The /ruites af Marre, 159 (died 1557), 


Faquir’, « religious anchorite, whose 
life is spent in the severest austerities and 
Murtilivation, 

Ve diverted himeelf, howrrer. .. eepecialip with the 
Bralimiiis, fogiilre, ainl onloor enthusets who had tra 


velled fran the heart of Unilin, are! badlted on ihelr way 
with whe cnilr,—W, Levkfurd, Vodhek , Le), 


Farceur (Tie), ogee Reoleo, the 
Italian farce-writer, Called Ruzzandé in 
Italian, frou ruzzure, “to play the fool” 
(12-1642). 


Farina'ta [Dror U ener]; a noble 
Florentine, leader of the Ghibelline fac- 
tion, and driven from his country in 1250 
by the Guelfes (1 sy/.). Some ten years 
later, by the aid of Mainfroi of Naplea, 
he bent the Gauelfes, ond took all the 
towns of ‘Tuscany and Florence. Danté 
conversed with him in the city of Dis, 
and represents him as lying in a fier 

tomb vet open, and not to be closed t 

the Inst judyiient day, When the mein 
ayvreed to raze Florence to the ground, 

Y 











FAT. 838 FATES. 

eount Rodolph and Luitgarde. She was Fatal Curiosity, an « im 
ene of the nine wives of Don Quixote (pt. I. iv. 5, 6). s anb- 
Those same soft belle at even-tide ject of this tale is the trial of o wife's 
gp eens i Dears erring fidelity. Anselmo, a Florentine gentle- 

At Ingethelm in all bis pride, man, had marned Camilla, and wishi 
Cy eased WER coeret els to rejoice over her incorruptible fidelity, 
, ee, induced his friend Lothario to put it te 
Fat (The). Alfonzo II. of Portugal | the test. The lady was not trial-proof, 


(1186, 1212-1223). Charles II. (/e Gros 
of France (852-882). Louia VI. (fe Gros) 
of France (1078, 1108-1137). 

Edward Bright of Essex weighed 44 
gtone (616 Ibs.) at death (1720-1750), 
David Lambert of Leicester weighed 
1908) 52 stone (759 ibs.) at death (1770- 


Fat Boy (The), Joseph or Joe, a lad 
ef astounding obesity, whose employment 
consisted of alternate eatiny and sleeping, 
Joe was in the service of Mr. Wardle. 
He was once known to “burst into a 
horse laugh,” and was once known to 


defer eating to say to Mary, “ How nice — 


you do look |" 

Tide wae weld In ap sdmiring manner, ond wee so far 

¢ bot alll there wm enough of (he caunnlba) in 

the young gentleman's eyes to render the compliment 
éonbtful. —C. Dickens, Pickwick Papers, liv. (1536). 

Fata Alci'na, sister of Fata Morga’- 
na. She carried off Astolfo on the back 
of a whale to her isle, but turned him 
into a myrtle tree when she tired of him. 
—Bojardo, Oriamio Innamorata (1495) ; 
Ariosto, Oriando Furioso (1516). 


Fata Ar’gea (‘‘/a reina delia Fata”), 
grotectress of Floridanté. 


Fata Falsire’na, on enchantress in | 


the Aduné of Marini (1623), 

Fata della Fonti, an enchantress, 
from whom Mandricardo obtained the 
arms of Hector.—Hojardo, Orlando Jn- 
namoralo (1495). 

Fata ere om sister of Arthur 
and pupil of Merlin. She lived at the 
bottom of a lake, and dispensed her 
treasures to whom she willed. This fairy 
is introduced by Bojardo in his Urlando 
Janamorato, first os “lady Fortune," but 
subsequently as an enchantress. In Tasso 
her three daughters (Morganetta, Nivetia, 
and Carvilia) are introduced. 

*.* "Fata Morgana” is the name 
given to a sort of mimge occasionally 
seen in the Straits of Messi’na, 

Fata Nera and Fata Bianca, 
protectresses of Guido'né and Aquilanté, 
—Dojirdo, Orlando Jnnamorato (1495). 


Fata Bilvanella, an enchantress in 
Oriando Innumoruto, by Lojardo (1495). 





but eloped with Lothario. The end was 
that Anselmo died of grief, Lothario was 


| slain in battle, and Camilla died in a 


convent (1605). 


Fatal Curionly, by George Lillo, 
Young Wilmot, yo gee to have perished 
at sea, goes to India, and having made 
nia fortune, returns to England. He 
inatantly visits Charlotte, whom he finds 
still faithful and devotedly attached to 
bim, and then in disguise visita his 
parents, with whom he deposits a casket. 
Agnes Wilmot, out of curiosity, opens 
the casket, and when she discovers that 
it contains jewels, she and her husband 
resolve to murder the owner, and secure 
the contents of the casket. Scarcely have 
they committed the fatal deed, when 


| Charlotte enters, and tells them it is their 


own son whom thev Mave killed, where- 
upon old Wilmot first stabs his wife and 
then himself. Thus, was the * curiosity" 
of Agnes fatal to herself, ber husband, 
and her son (1736). 


Fatal Dowry (Tie), « tragedy by 
Philip Massinger (1632). Rowe has bor- 
rowed much of his Mar Penitent from 
this drama. 


Fatal Marriage (The), a tragedy 
by Thomas Southerne (1650-1746). Isa- 
bella a nun marries Biron eldest son of 
count Baldwin. The count disinherita 
hia son for this marnage, and Biro 
entering the army, is sent to the siege o 
Candy, where he is seen to fall, and is 
reported dead. Isabella, reduced to the 
utmost poverty, after seven years of 
‘\ widowhood,” prays count Baldwin to 
help her and do something for ber child, 
but he turns her out of doors, Mire 
(2 sy/l.) proposes marmage to her, and 
her Babb a gs of him was “the fatal 
marriage,” for the very next day Biron 
returns, and is set upon by ruffians in the 

iy of his brother Carlos, who assassinate 
him. Carlos accuses Villeroy of tha 
murder, but one of the mffians impeaches, 
and Carlos is apprebended. Aa for Isa- 
bella, she stabs herself and diea, 


Fates. The three Fatal Sisters were 
Clo'tho, Lachesis [ Lad’.e.ais), and Ai’- 





FATIMA. 


plunged a r into the heart of the 
magician and killed him.—Ariwhan Nights 
(“ din or the Wonderful Lamp”). 


Fat’ima, the mother of prince Camaral’- 
saman. Her husband was Schal’'zaman 
sultan of the ‘Isle of the Children of 
Khal’edan, some twenty days’ sail from 
the coast of Persia, in the open sea.”— 
Arabian Niyhts (‘‘Camaralzaman and 
Badoura”). 

Fat'ima, the last of Bluebeard’s wives. 
She was saved from death by the timely 
arrival of her brothers with a party of 
ie Perrault, Contes de fees 

1697). 


Fat’imite (3 syl.). The Third Futimite, 
the cali Hakem B'amr-ellah, who 
prot to be incarnate deity, and the 

prophet who had communication 
between God and man. Ile was the 
tounder of the Druses (v.v.). 


What say you dows this wizard style himself— 
Hakeem ralinh, the Third | atimite! 
Rebt. Browning, The Return af the Druset, ¥. 


Faulconbridge (Philip), called ‘the 
Bastard,” natural son of king Richard I. 
and lady Robert Faulconbridge. An 
admirable admixture of greatness and 
levity, daring and recklessness. Le was 

nerous and open-hearted, but hated 
oreigners like a true-born islander.— 
Shakespeare, Ainyg Juin (1595). 





Faulkland, the over-anxious lover 
of Julia [Meloute], always fretting and 
tormenting himself about her whims, 
spirit, health, life. Every feature in the 
sky, every shift of the wind was a source 
of anxiety to him. If she was gay, he 
fretted that she should cure so little for 
his absence; if she was low-spirited, he 
feared she was going to die; if she 
danced with another, he was jealous; if 
she didn't, she was out of sorts.—Sheri- 
dan, The Rivals (1775). 


Fault. ‘‘Faultily faultless, icily 
regular, splendidly null.” Tennyson so 
describes his ‘‘ Maud.” 


Fault-bag. A fable says that every 
man has & hanging before him in 
which he puts hie neighbours’ faults, and 
another behind him in which he stows 
his own. 

Oh that you could turn your eye: towards the napes of 
your necks, and make but an interior survey of your good 
selves |—Shakespeare, Coriclanus act ij. ec. 1 (1609). 

Faultless Painter (The , Andrea 
del Sarto (1488-1530).— rowning, 
Andrea del 0. 








Faun. Tennyson uses this sylvan 
deity of the classics as the symbo. of a 
drunkard. 

Arise and fly 
The reeling Faun, the sensual feast. 
Ju Memoriam, 

Faust, a famous magician of the six- 
teenth century, a native of Suabia. A 
rich uncle having left him a fortune, 
Faust ran to cverv excess, and when his 
fortune was exhausted, made a pact with 
the devil (who assumed the name of 
Mephistoph’elés, and the appearance of a 
little grey monk) that if he might in- 
dulyve his propensities freely for twenty- 
four years, he would at the end of that 
period consign to the devil both body and 
soul, The compact terminated in 1550, 
when Faust disappeared. His sweetheart 
was Maryheri'ta [{Jfaryaret], whom he 
seduced, and his faithful servant was 
Wagner. 

Goethé has a noble tragedy entitled 
Faust (1798); Gounod an opera called 
Fuust e Muryherita (1859). (See Faustus,) 


Faustus (Dr.), the same as Faust; 
but Marlowe, in his admirable tragedy, 
makes the doctor sell himself to Lucifer 
and Mephistophilis. 


When Faustus stamda on the brink of everlasting ruin, 
waiting for Che fatal moment... a acene of enchanting 
luterest, fervid passion, aud overwheludug carries 
captive the sternest heart, and }-tuclaime the first tiumph 
of the trugic poet. —R. Chambera, Knglish Literature, 1 
721. 


*.* W. Bayle Bernard, of Boston, 
U.S. America, has a tragedy on the same 
subject. 


Favori’ta (La), Leonora de Guzman, 
“favourite” of Alfonzo XI. of Castile. 
Ferdinando fell in love with her; and the 
king, to save himself from excommunica- 
tion, sanctioned the marriage. But when 
Ferdinando learned that Leonora was the 
king's mistress, he rejected the alliance 
with indignation, and became a monk. 
Leonora also became a novice in the same 
monastery, saw Ferdinando, obtained his 
forgiveness, and died.—Donizetti, Le 
Favorita (an opera, 1842). 


Faw (TJtbhice), the ostler's wife, im 
Wandering Willie’s tale.—Sir W. Scott, 
Redjauntlet (time, George 111.). 


Faw'nia, the lady beloved by Doras- 
tus.—R. Greene, /’undosto, the Triumph 
of Time (158s). 

*.* Skakespeare founded his Winter’s 
Tale on Greene's romance. 


Fazio, a Florentine, who firat tried to 
make a fortune by alchemy, but being 


. 








FELICE. 


Felice, wife of sir Guy of Warwick, 
paid to have “ the same high forehead as 
Venus.” 


Felio’ian (Father), the catholic priest 
and schoolmaster of Grand Prd, in Acadia 
‘now called Nova Scotia). He accom- 
panied Evangeline in part of her wander- 
ngs to find Gabriel her affianced husband. 

ellow, Evanyeline (1849). 


Felicians (The), the happy nation. 
The Felicians live undera free sovereignty, 
where the laws are absolute. Felicia 
is the French ‘‘ Utopia.”—Mercier de la 
Rivitre, L'fleureuse Nation (1767). 


Feliciano de Sylva, don Quixote's 
favourite author. e two followin, 
extracts were in his opinion uns 


and uansurpassable :— 

The reason, most adored one, of your unreasonable 
waressonablenem hath 00 my 
reason, that I bave no reasonable reason for reasoning 
eguinst such an nea. 

The bright heaven of your divinity that lifts you to the 
etars, most cslestial women, renders you 
of every desert which your charms so deserve. 
—Orrvantes, Don Quirote, L 1. 8 (1605). 


Felix, a monk who listened to the 
singing of a milk-white bird for a hundred 
vears; which length of time seemed to 
him “but a single hour,” so enchanted 
was he with the song.— Longfellow, The 
Golden Legend. (See also Hildesheim.) 


Feliz (Don), son of don Lopez. He 
was a Portuguese nobleman, in love with 
Violante ; but Violante’s father, don Pedro, 
intended to make her a nun. Donna 
Isabella, having fled from home to avoid 
& marriage disayreeable to her, took 
refuge with Violante; and when colonel 
Briton called at the house to see donna 
Isubella, her brother don Felix was 
jealous, believing that Violante was the 
object of his visits. Vivlante kept “her 
friend's secret,” even at the risk of losing 
her lover; but ultimately the mystery 
was cleared up, and a double marriave 
took —khirs. Centlivre, Zhe W ’ 
(1714). 


Feliz (Hf. Minucius), a Roman lawyer, 
who flourished a.p. 230; he wrote a 
dialogue entitled Octavius, which occupies 
a@ conspicuous place among the early 
Apologies of Christianity. 

Like Menectus Feliz, she believed that evil demons hid 


faceneelres in the marbles (statues) —Uuida, Ariadné, 


Feliz um of Burgundy, who converted 
Sigbert (Sigebert or Sabert) king of the 


827 FENELLA. 





Kast Saxons (4.D. 604).—Ethelwerd, 
8, Ve 
Bo dy to us three men most reverend base . s « 
Converted to Ee fal kg ight at. Him agin 
Ensusth Anselm... and eee Mehep of Linceha) 
Fe'lixmar’te (4 sy/.) of Hyrcania, 
son of Flo’risan and Martedi’na, the hero 
of a Spanish romance of chivalry. 
curate in Don Quirote condemned this 
work to the flames.— Melchior de Orteza, 
Caballero de Ubéda (1566). 


Fell (Dr.). Tom Brown, being in dis- 
was set by Dr. Fell, dean of Christ 
urch (1625-1686), to translate the 
thirty-third epigram of Martial. 
Non amo te, Zebidl, per posmm dicere quare¢ 
Hoc tantum possur dicere, non amo te. 


Which he rendered thus : 

I do not like thee, Dr. Fell— 

The reason why I cannot tell ; 

But this I know, and know fall well, 

I do not like thee, Dr Feil. 
Feltham (Black), a highwayman 
with captain le pper or Peppercull 
the Alsatian bully).—Sir W. Scott, 


ortunes of Nigel (time, James I.). 


Femmes Savantes (les), womes 
who go in for women’s rights, science 
and philosophy, to the neglect of 
domestic duties and wifely amenities. 
The ‘* blue-stockings " are (1) Philaminte 
3 syl.) the mother of Henriette, who 
ischarges onc of her servants because she 
speaks bad grammar ; (2) Armande (2sy/.) 
sister of Henriette, who advocates platonic 
love and science; and (3) LBeélise sister 
of Philaminte, who sides with her in me 
things, but imagines that every one is in 
love with her. Henriette, who has no 
sympathy with these “lofty flighta,” is 
in love with Clitandre, but Philaminte 
wants her to marry Trissotin, a bel esprit, 
However, the father loses his property 
through the ‘‘ savant” proclivities of his 
wife, Trissotin retires, and Clitandre 
marries Henriette the ‘‘perfect” o2 
thorough woman.—Molitre, Les Femmes 
Savantes (1672). 


Fenella, alis Zarah (daughter of 
Edward Christian), a pretended deaf and 
dumb fairy-like attendant on the countess 
of Derby. The character seems to hgve 
been sugyested by that of Mignon, the 
Italian girl in Goethe’s Wilhelm Meister’s 
Apprentweship.—Sir W. Scott, Peverd of 
the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Let It be tadlenus rivants, and I will as‘ Mencia.“ 
—Percy Fitzgerald, Parvonu Fast'g, th. £33. 








FEN ELLA. 


— SS ee 


Fenelia, a deaf ‘tad domb girl, sister 


of Maszaniello the fisherman. She was 
seduced by Alfonso, san of the duke of 
Areos; and Masaniello resolved to kill 
him. He accordingly beaded an ineur 
reclion, and met with such creat eoectee 
that the mob made him chicf magiatrate 
of Forticl, bot afterwards shot hin. 
Fenella, on hearing of ber brother's death, 
threw bereelf inte the crater of Vesuvius, 
—Auber, Wasaniel/o (an opera, 1A31)., 

Fenris. the demon wolf of Nithheim., 
When he gapes one jaw tooches the earth 
and the otherheaven. This monster will 
awallow up Odin at the day of doom, 
(Often butincorrect!y written Pawan )— 
Scand iandn Myth rf ays 


Fenton, the lover of Anne Page, 
daughter of Mr. and Alrs. Page, gentle- 
folke living at Windsor, Fenton ia of 
good birth, and seeks to marry a fortune 
to “heal his poverty.” In “eweet Anne 
Page" he soon diseovers that which 
makes him love her for herself more than 
for bet moner —Shakespeare, Merry 
Wites of Windsor, act ili. se. 4 (L601), 


Ferad- Artho, eon of Cairbre, and 
enly surviving descendant of the line of 
Conar (the frat king of Jreland). On 
the death of Cathmor (brother of the 











FERGUS. 





her lover to challenge Cuthull thullin bo mortal 
combat. Moat my eg! the twa 
friends fough erds fell, “The 


@minbeam of Roe fell—the first of 


Cuthollin’s friends. Unhappy Tunduoky} 
is the hand of Cuthullin Gass the hero 
foll,”"—Osaian, Finjal, ti. 

Ferdinand, king of Navarre. He 
agreed! with three you lords Lo apend 
three years in severe study, during which 
time no woman was to approach his 
courts but no sooner was the agreement 
made than he fell in lowe with the 
princess of France, In consequence of 
the death of her father, the Indy deferred 
the marriage for twelve months and ao 


day. 


«« » the aole inherijor 
ae ey es 6 men tay owe (ome | 
| Kavnrre, ; 
Bhekopeara, Love's Lotowr's Loed (1 BG), 


Ferdinand, son of Alonso king of 
Naples, He falls in love with Mirsnda, 
daughter of Prospero the exiled duke 
of Milan.—Shakespeare, The Tempest 
(1609). 

Haply = 


Mirander’s bope had pletured Ferdinand 
Long ¢re the guint wove toed lin on the abore 
Lowell 


Ferdinand, n fiery yvoung Spaniard, in 
love with {eonera,—lenhson. Thoo Struma 





FERGUS, $29 





FERRARDO. 





According to tradition, Fergus (son of 
Fingal) was the father of Conzal ; Congal 
of Arcath; and Arcath of Fergus II., 
with whom begins the real history of the 
Scots.—Ossian. 


Fe-gus, son of Rossa, a brave hero in 
the army of Cuthullin general of the 
Irish tribes. 

Fergus, first in our joy at the feast; som of Ros; arm 
of death.—Onsian, singel, i. 

Fe ‘gus is another form of Ferrigus or 
Ferracute, the Portuguese giant. (See 
FERRACUTE.) 

Fern (Fanny), the peeudonym of Sarah 
Payson Willis, afterwards Eldredge, 
afterwards Farmington, afterwards Par- 
ton, sister of N. P. Willis, an American 
(1811-1872). 


Fern (Will), a poor fellow who, being 
found asleep in a shed, is brought before 
alderman Cute. He says emphatically 
“he must be put down.” The poor 
fellow takes charye of his brother's clild, 
and is both honest and kind, but, alas! 
he dared to fall asleep in a shed, an 
offence which must be ‘‘ put down,""—C., 
Dickens, Zhe Chimes, third quarter 
(1844). 


Fernan Cabal'lero, the pseudonym 
of Cecilia Bih) de Faber, a Spanish 
novelist (1797-1877). 


Fernando, son of John of Procida, 
and husband of Isoline (3 sy/.) daughter 
of the French governor of Messina. The 
butchery of the Sicilian Vespers occurred 
the night after their espousals. lernando 
was among the slain, and Isoline died of 
a broken heart.—S. Knowles, Join of 
Procida (1840). 


Fernando (Don), youngest son of the 
duke Ricardo. Gay, handsome, encrous, 
and polite; but faithless to his friend Car- 
denio, for, contrary to the lady's inclina- 
tion, and in violation of every principle 
of honour, he prevailed on Lucinda's 
father to break off the betrothal between 
his daughter and Cardenio, and to bestow 
the lady on himeelf. On the wedding 
‘day Lucinda was in a swoon, and a letter 
informed, the bridegroom that she was 
married already to Cardonio; she then left 
the house privately, and retired to a con- 
vent. Don Fernando, having entered the 
convent, carried her off, but stopping at 
ap inn, found there Dorothea his wife, 
with Cacdenio the hasband of Lucinda, and 


the two parties paired off with their re- 


spective spouses.—Cervantes, Don Quizcte, 
J. iv. (1605). 

Fernan'do, a Venetian captain, servant 
to Annophel (daughter of the governor of 
Candy).—Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe 
Lav of Candy (1647), 


Fernan'do[ Floresta “s a State prisoner 
of Seville, married to Leonora, who (in 
boy's attire and under the name of Fidélio) 
became the servant of Rocco the jailer, 
Pizarro, governor of the jail, conceived a 
hatred to the State prisoner, and resolved 
to murder him, so Rocco and Leonora 
were sent to dig his grave. The arrival 
of the minister of state put an end to the 
infamous design, and Fernando was set 
at liberty.—Becthoven, Fidelio (1791). 


Forney ( The Patriarch of), Voltaire 4 
so called because he lived in retirement 
at Ferney, pear Geneva (1694-1778). 


Ferquhard Day, the absentee from 
the clan Chattan at the combat.—Sir W, 
Seotty Fuir Maid of Perth (time, Henrv 

".)e 


Fer’racute, a giant who had the 
strength of forty men, and was thirty-six 
feet high. He was slain by Orlando, 
who wounded him in the navel, his only 
vulnerable part.—Turpin, Chrunicle of 
Charlemagne. 

*,” Ferracute is the prototype of 
Pulci’s ‘‘Morzante,” in his hervi-comie 
poem entitled Aforyante Mayywre (1494). 


Fer’ragus, the Portuguese giant, who 
took Bellisant under bis care after her 
divoree from Alexander emperor of Con 
stantinople.— lulentine and Orson (fife 
teenth century). 


My sire's tall form might grace the part 
Of Ferragus ur Ascapart. 
Sir W. Scott. 


Fer’ramond (Sir), a knight, whose 
lady-love was Lucida, 


Ferrand de Vaudemont (Count), 
duc de Lorraine, son of René king of 
Provence. He first appears disguised as 
Laurence Neipperg.—sSir W. Scott, Anne 
of Geierstein (time, Edward 1V.). 
Ferrardo [Gonzaaa], reigning duke 
of Mantua in the absence of his cousin 
Leonardo. He was a villain, and tried to 
prove Mariana (the bride of Leonardo) 
guilty of adultery. His scheme was tbis: 
He made Julian St. Pierre drunk with 
druyyred wine, and in his sleep conveyed 
him to the duke’s bed, throwing his scarf 
under the bed of the duchess, which was 
in an adjuvining chamber. He then re- 








FIDES. 831 


ape ESS RI 


FIELDING’S PROVERBS. 





iler, and hold intercourse with her 
usband,—Beethoven, Fidelio (1791). 


Fides (2 sy/.), mother of John of 
Leyden. ieving that the prophet- 
ruler of Westphalia had caused her son's 
death, she went to Munster to curee him. 
Seeing the ruler pass, she recognized in 
him her own son; but the son [obregel 
nut to know his mother, and Fidés, to 
sive him annoyance, profeased to have 
nmacr a mistake. She was put into a 
dungeon, where John visited her, and when 
he set fire to bis both pe Fidés rushed into 
ihe flames, and rished together,— 
Meyerbeer, Le Prophete (1849). 


Fidessa, the companion of Sansfoy ; 
but when the Red Cross Knight slew that 
“faithless Saracen,” Fidessa told him she 
was the only danghter of an emperor of 
Italy: that she was betrothed to a rich 
anid wise king ; and that her betrothed 
Iwing slain, she had set forth to find the 
uel, in order that she might decently 

inter it. 
iiza Sansfoy had met her and com- 
pelled her to be his companion; but she 
thanked the koight for having come to 
her rescue, The Red Cross Kni; wht, 
wholly deluded by this plausible tale, 


assured Fidessa of his sympathy and pro- | 


tection; but ahe turmmed out to be Duessa, 
tic daughter of Falsehoml and Shame, 
The sequel must be sought under the 
werd [kasa.—Spenser, fairy Queen, 
i. 2 (1540). 

Fi‘do, Faith personified, the foster-son 
of Aco (“bearing,” Rum. x. 17); his 
foster-sister is Meditation. Fully de- 
ecriled in canto ix. of The Purple [sland 
(1633), by Phineas Fletcher, (Latin, 

pues, * faith.) 


Field of Blood, Aceldama, the 
plot of Iand purchased by the thirty 
jicces of silver which Judas had received 
ef the high prest, and which he threw 
duwn in the Temple when he saw that 
Jesus waa condemned to death._—WMatt. 
zxVil. 6. 


Field of Blood, the battle-field of 


Canoe, where Hannibal, nc. 216, de- | 


fented the 
alauyhter. 

Fiold of Mourning, o battle-field 
sear the city uf Aragun. The battle waa 
funehe July 17, JI, between the 
Clristians and the Moora, 


Field of Peterloo, the site of an 
attack made by the military upon a reform 


Romans with very ‘grent 


She eaid that in ber wander- | 





meeting held in St. Peter's Field, Mane 
chester, August 16, 1819. As many as 
60,000 persons were wounded in this 


| absurd attack, The word is a burlesq ae - 


on Waterloo. 


Battles atel blaedshed, September masacrm, bridges of 
Lowi, revrests of Moscow, Waterlies, Peierions, ten- pound 
franchises, tor-berrela, and guillotine: —Cariyhe 


wee of the Cloth of Gold, s 
plain between Ardres and Guisnes 
Cokes where Frangois ]. interviewed 


fenry VIL, in 1520. 
They dim procesiicn baney- 
ewreyars differs from The Field ‘of the Cloth Sof Gola 


Field of the Forty Footsteps, 
at the back of the British Museum, once 
ealled Southampton Fields, The tra- 
dition is that two brothers, in the Mon- 
mouth rebellion, took different sides, and 
engared each other in fight. Both were 
killed, and forty impressions of their feet 
were traceable in the field for years 
afterwards. 

*." The Misses Porter wrote a novel 
called The Field of the Forty Fuotstepa, 
and the Messrs. Mavhew tock the aame 


| subject for a melodrama. 


Fielding (Jfrs.), a little querulous 
old lady with «a peevish face, who, in con- 
sequence of having once been better off, 


| or of labouring under the impression that 
she might have been if something 


in the 
indie trade had happened dif erently, 
was very pentec] and patronizing indeed, 
When she dressed for a party, she wore 
gloves, anil a cap of state i almost as 
tall and quite as sliff ag a mitre." 

Muy Feldiny, her daughter, very pretty 
and innocent. She waa engaged to 
Falward Flunimer, but heard that be had 
died in South America, and consented 
to marry Tackleton the toy merchant. A 
few days before the day fixed for the 
wedding, Edward Plummer returned, and 
they were married. Tackleton pave them 
ag o present the enke he bad ordered 
for his own wedding feast.—C. Dickens, 
The Criccet on the Heurth (1845), 


Fielding of the Drama, George 
Farquhar, author of Ihe Leaus’ Stratayem, 
etc. (1678-1707). 


Fielding’s Proverbs, These were 
in reality compiled by W. Ienry Ireland, 
the Shakespeare impostor, whu published 
Miseellanevis Papers and Jnstruments, 
wnder the hand and seal of Wiliam 


Vutkespearr, inc nal “f the beds ge | of Aim 
Lear and a 








FILLAN. 
ts settled so far as the Church of England 
is concemed. 


Fillan, son of Fingal and Clatho, the 
most highlv finished character in the 
m of Zem'ora. Fillan was younger 
than his nephew Oscar, and does not appear 
on the scene till after Oscar's death. He 
is rash and fiery, eager for military glory, 
and brave as a lion. When Fingal ap- 
inted Gaul to command for the day, 
illan had hoped his father’s choice 
might have fallen to his own lot. ‘On 
his spear stood the son of Clatho... 
thrice he raised his eyes to Fingal; his 
voice thrice failed him as he spoke... 
He strode away; bent over a distant 
stream ... the tear hung in his eye. 
He struck at times the thistle’s head with 
his inverted spear.” Yet showed he no 
jealousy, for when Gaul was in danger, 
e risked his own life to savehim. Next 
day was Fillan’s turn to lead, and his 
deeds were ur.rivalled in dash and bril- 
liancy. lle slew Foldath, the general of 
the opposing army, but when Cathmor 
“lord of Atha,” the commander-in-chief, 
came aguinst him, Fillan fell. His 
modesty was then as prominent as his 
bravery. ‘‘ Lay me,” he said to Ossian, 
“Sin that hollow rock. Raise no stone 
above me. 
of my fields, fallen without renown.” 
Every incident of Fillan’s life is beautiful 
in the extreme.—Ossian, Zemora, v. 


Fillpot (7vby), a thirsty old soul, 
who ‘‘among jolly topers bore off the 
bell.” It chanced as in dog-days he sat 
boosing in his arbour, that he died “ full 
as biy as a Dorchester butt.” His body 
turned to clay, and out of the clay a 
brown jug was made, sacred to friend- 
ship, mirth, and mild ale. 


His body, when long In the ground {t had lain, 
And time Into clay had resolved it again, 
A potter found vut In Its covert so snvg, 
And with part of fat Toby he formed th‘s brown jug, 
Now sacred to friendship. to mirth. and mild ale. 
Bo bere's to my lovely sweet Nan of the vale, 
Rev, Francis Fawkes (1721-1777). 
*,* The two best drinking songs in the 
lanyuace were both by clergymen. The 
other is, J Cunnot Fat but Little Meat, 
by John Still, bishop of Bath and Wells 
(1543-1607). 


Filome’na (Santa). At Pisa the 
church of San Francisco contains a chapel 
lately dedicated to Santa Filomena. Over 
the altar 13 a pee by Sabatelli, which 
represents Filomena as a nymph-like 
figure floating down from heaven, at- 
tended by two angels bearing the lily, 











. - I am fallen in the first | 





oD es Eo 


FINGAL. 


co oe ee ee ee ee —sae ee 


the palm, and a javelin. In the fore- 
ground are the sick and maimed, healed 
by her intercession, 

Nor ever shall be wanting here 








The . the Iily, and the spear: 
e symbols that of yore 
St. Filomena bore. 
Longfello™, Sta. Fuemena, 
*,* Longfellow calls Florence Nightin- 


gale “St. Filomena” (born at Florence, 
1820). 


Finality John, lord John Russell 
(afterwards ‘‘earl Russell”), who main- 
tained that the Reform Bill of 1832 was a 
finality (1792-1878), 

Finch (argaret), queen of the 
gipsies, who died aged 109, a.p. 1740, 
She was born at Sutton, in Kent, and was 
buried at Beckenham, in the same county. 


Fine-ear, one of the seven attend- 
ants of Fortunio. He could hear the 

rass grow, and even the wool on a 
sheep's back.—Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy 
Tales (‘ Fortunio,” 1682), 

*,* In Grimm’s Goblins is the same 
fairy tale (‘‘ Fortunio”). 


Fin’etor, a necromancer, father of 
the Enchantress Damsel.—Vasco de Lo- 
beira, Amadis de Gaul (thirteenth cen- 
tury). 

Finetta, ‘‘the cinder girl,” a fairy 
tale by the comtesse D'Aunov Cees 
This is merely the old tale of Cinderella 
slightly altered. Finetta was the youngest 
of three princesses, despised by them, and 
put to all sorts of menial work. The two 
sisters went to balls, and left Finetta at 
home in charge of the house. One day 
she found a gold key, which opened a 
wardrobe full of most excellent dresses ; 
80, arraying herself in one, she followed 
her sisters to the ball, but she was so fine 
that they knew her not, and Tan 
home before them. This occurred two 
or three times, but at last, in running 
home, she lost one of ber slippers. The 


| young prince resolved to marry her alone 


whose foot fitted the slipper, and Finetta 
became his wife. Finetta was also called 
Auricula or * Fine-ear,” 


Fingal (or Fion na Gael). 

His father was Comhal or Combal, and 
his mother Morna. 

(Comhal was the son of Trathal king 
of Morven, and Morna was the daughter 
of Thaddu.) 

His tirst :cife was Roscrana, mother of 
Ossian. His second was Clatho, mother 
of Fillan, etc. 








FIRE A GOOD SERVANT, ETC. 9885 


and a general war between the two races 
ensued. The Cael were reduced to the 
last extremity, and sent to Trathal (grand- 
father of Fingal) for aid. Trathal ac- 
cordingly sent over Conar with an army, 
and op his reaching Ulster he was made 
“king of the Cael” by acclamation. He 
utterly subdued the Fir-bolg, and assumed 
the title of ‘‘ king of Ireland;” but the 
Fir-bolg often rose in insurrection, and 
made many attempts to expel the race of 
Conar.—Ossian. 


Fire a Good Servant, but Bad 
Master. 


For fire and people doe tn this vee. 
weber good servants, both ili masters be. 

Lord Inquisition upon Fume, ete. (1554-1638). 
Fire-Brand of France (Tie), 

John duke of Bedford, regent of France 

(1389-1435). 

J2hn duke of Bedford, styled ‘‘ The Fire-brand of France.” 

Drayton, Polyelbdion, xvill. (1613). 

Fire-drake, a fire which flies in 

the night, likea dragon. Metaphorically 

it means a spitfire, an irritable, passionate 

person. 

Common people think the fire-drake to be a t that 
kecpeth some hid treasure, but philosophers a it to 
be a great unequal exhalation inflamed between wo 
clouds, the one bot and the other cold, which is the reason 
that it smoketh The middle part . being ater 

eo 


than the rest, maketh it seeme like a bellies, an 
Calg ee ante @ head and talle. —Bullokar, 


Fire-new, 1.e. bran-new (brennan, 
**to burn,” brene, ‘‘ shining”). 
Your fire-new stamp of honour is scares current. 
Shakespeare, Richard ///. act 1. ac. 3 (1897). 
Firougz Schah, son and heir of the 
king of Persia. One New Year's Day an 
Indian brought to the king an enchanted 
horse, which would convey the rider 
almost instantaneously anywhere he 
might wish to go to; and asked, as the 
price thereof, the king’s dauyhter for his 
wife. Prince Firouz, mounting the horse 
to try it, was carried to Bengal, and there 
fell in love with the princess, who accom- 
Penied him back to Persia on the horse. 
en the king saw his son arrive safe 
and sound, he dismissed the Indian dis- 
courteously ; but the Indian caught up 
tre princess, and, mounting the horse, 
conveyed her to Cashmere. She was 
rescued by the sultan of Cashmere, who 
cut off the Indian’s head, and proposed 
marriage himself to the princess. To 
avoid this alliance, the princess pretended 
to be mad. The sultan sent for his physi- 
cians, but they could suggest no cure. 
At | came one who promised to cure 
the lady; it was prince Firouz in disguise. 


FISH. 


He told the sultan that the princess had 
contracted enchantment from the horse, 
and must be set on it to disenchant her. 
Accordingly, she was set on the horse, 
and while Firouz caused a thick cloud of 
smoke to arise, he mounted with the lady 
through the air, saying as he did s 
‘* Sultan of Cashmere, when you woul 
espouse a princess who craves your pro- 
tection, first learn to obtain her consent.” 
—Araban Nights (‘‘The Enchanted 
Horse”). 


First Gentleman of Europe, 
George IV. (1762, 1820-18380). 
wou d‘Artois of France was so called 
80. . 
The “ First Gentleman of Europe” had not yet 
his once elegant figure.—&. Yates, Celebrities, x 
First Grenadier of France. 
Latour d’Auverge was so called by Na- 
poleon (1743-1800). 


First Love, a comedy by Richard 
Cumberland (1796). Frederick Mowbray's 
first love, being dowerless, marries the 
wealthy lord Ruby, who soon dies, leaving 
all his fortune to his widow. In the mean 
time, Frederick goes abroad, and at Padua 
falla in with Sabina Rosny, who nurses 
him through a severe sickness, for which 
he thinks Fre is bound in honour to ma 
her. She comes with him to England, 
and is placed under the charge of lady 
Ruby. Sabina tells lady Ruby she can- 
not marry Frederick, because she is mar- 
ried already to lord Sensitive, and even 
if it were not so, she could not marry 
him, for all his affections are with lady 
Ruby ; this she discovered in the delirium 
of tte young man, when his whole talk 
was about her ladyship. In the end, lord 
Sensitive avows himself the husband of 
Sabina, and Frederick marries his first 
love. 


Fish (One-eyed), inthe mere of Snow- 
donia or the Suowdon group. 
ST a es a 
oe f 
He eee * pray ton, Polyotbson, t. (1612. 
Fish, All's fish that cometh to my net. 


Alle fish they get, that cometh to net. 

T. Tumer, Five Hundred Pointe of Geed 
Husbandry, xxxiv. (1567). 
Al ls fishe that cometh (o the net, 
G. Gascoigne, The Stecle Glas (died L577). 

He eats no fish, that is, ‘She is no 
apist,” ‘‘he is an honest man, or one to 
Ge trusted.” In the reign of queen Eliza- 
beth papists were the enemies of the 
Government, and hence one who did not 
cat fisk, like a papist, on fast days was 





ite lost 





—— = 


FISH AND THE RING. 


considered a protestant, and friend to tha 
Government. 

Ido prot . ty serve him (rely thai willy 
Pat... ard to eet no fel —Shakeaqeare, 
eet ee dl | d8), 

Fiah and the Ring. 

1. Peiverites, being too fortunate, waa 
advised to cast away something he modt 
hichly prived, and threw into the sca AD 
engraved gem of great value. A Tew 
dave afterwarda a fish came to hie table, 
and in it was this very cem.—/feredotas, 
i. 40), 

A certain queen, having formed an 
Dlicit attachment to a soldier, cave him ao 
nag which had been the present of her 
hustand. The king, being ap ppnzed there- 
of, got possession of the ring while the 
soldier was asleep, threw it into the sea, 
and then asked his queen to bring if bion 
In great alarm, ale went to St. Kentigern 
and told him everything. The sunt went 
to the Clyde, caught a salmon with the 
Mog in its mouth, and pave it to the 
queen, who thus saved her character and 
her bushand. This lerend ia told about 
the Glagvow arins. 

i. The arms of dame Rebecca Berrrv, 
wife of sir Thomas Elton, Stratford-le- 
Tiow, to be seen at St. Dunstan's Church, 
Stepney. The tale is that a knicht, bear- 


PO Te Ba 





too in 
kan 


nm f 7. FT pyre) Te re - Leon noe 


336 
ing to explain the a ition ; but “her 
frolic | at he t persounted the 








FIVE WITS. 





joat tO carry on oke, She was, 
owever, 4, discovered by dn 
was reso to penetrate the m ; 
ith this discovery the sixteenth and 
last book of Don Juan enda,—Byron, Don 
Jwin (1824). 


Fitzurse (Lond Waldemar), a baron 

in the enite of prince John of Anjou 

brother of Richard Cour de Lion si 
, Beott, JeanAoe (time, Richard I. 


Five, says P ras, “has ae 
forea in expiations. It is everything. 
It stops the er of poisona, and is re- 
doubted by evil spirits. Unity or the 
monad is deity, or the first cause of all 
Sead te Gea rebate principle. Two or the 
the symbol of diversity—the exw 
syciple. ree or the friod contains 
the mystery of mysteries, for everything 
is composed of three substances. It re- 
presenta God, the soul of the world, and 
the epint of man. Five is 2+, or the 
combination of the first of the equals 
and the first of the unequals, hence also 
the combination of the good and evil 
powers of nature."—Pythagoras, On the 
fentad, 


Five Kings of France. the five 





FLACCUS. 


8. Fantasy eneryizes the mind to act in 
accordance with the judgment thus pro- 


4. Estimation decides on all matters 
peeing to time, space, locality, re- 

ion, and s0 on. . 

5. Memory enables the mind to retain 
the recollection of what has been imparted. 


These are tle five witts removyng inwardly— 

First *Coninon Witte,” and then ** Ymugination,” 
= opts f and °° Estimation “ truely, 

And © Memory.” 


Gtephen Hr wes, The Psso-tyme of Plesure, xxiv. (1515). 


Flaccus, Horace the Roman poet, 
whose full name was Quintus Horiatius 
Flaccus (n.c. 65-8). 

Fladdock (General), a friend of the 
Norris family in America, and, like them, 
devoted to titles and aristocracy.—C. 
Dickens, Martin Chuzzlewit (1844). 


Flags. 
Baxxers of saints and images are 
smaller than standards, and not slit at the 
extremity. 

Royal Banners contain the royal coat 
of arms. 

BANNEROLS, banners of great width ; 
thev represent alliances and descent. 

PexNons, smaller than standards. 
They are rounded at the extremity and 
charged with arms. 

Pxensivs, small flags shaped like the 
vanes which surmount pinnacles, 

STAXDARDS, much larger and longer 
than barners. 

The Royal British Standard has three 
red and one blue quarter. The first and 
third quarters contain three leoparded 
lions, the second quarter the thistle of 
Scotland, and the fourth the harp of 
Treland. 

*,* The Union Jack is a blue flag with 
three united crosses extending to the ex- 
treme edges: (1) St. George's cross (red 
on wAite) for England; (2) St. Andrew's 
cross (white on oe) for Scotland ; (3) St. 
Patrick's cross (red on ehite) for Ireland. 
In all other flags containing the ‘* Union 
Jack,” the Jack is confined to the first 
quarter or a part thereof, 

Flam 'bderge (2 sy/.), the sword which 
Mauyis took from Anthe’nor the Saracen 
admiral, when he attacked the castle of 
Griande la Fee. The sword was made 
by Weyland, the Scandinavian Vulcan.— 

omance of Maujis P@Ayyremont et de 
Veesan son Frere. 

Flaraborough (Solumon), farmer. 
A talkative neighbour of Dr. Primrose, 
vicar of Wakeficld. Moses Primrose 
marries one of bis daughters. 

15 








887 


| Cantab, nephew to lord Totterly. 





FUATTERER. 


The Misses Flamborough, daughters ef 
the farmer. Their homeliness contraste 
well with the flashy pretenders to fashion 
introduced by squire Thornhill. —Gold- 
smith, Vicar of Wakefield (1766). 

Flame (Lord), Johnson the jester 
and dramatist, author of Hurlo- Thrwnbo, 
an extravaganza (1729). 

Flammer (Zhe Jon. Mr. ve a 

e is 
a young gentleman with a vivid imagina- 
tion, small income, and | debts.—C. 
Selby, The Unfinished Gentleman. 

Flammock (Wilkin), a Flemish 
soldier and burgess at the castle of Garde 
Doloureuse. 

Rose or Roschen Flammock, daughter of 
Wilkin Flammock, and attendant on lacy 
Eveline.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Betrothed 
(time, Henry II.). 

Flanders (Moll), a woman of extra- 
ordinary beauty, born in Old Bailcy. 
She was twelve years a harlot, five years 
a wife, twelve years a thief, and eight 
years a convict in Virginia; but ulti- 
mately she became rich, lived honestly, 
and died a penitent in the reign of Charles 


| I].—Defoe, The Fortunes of Moll Flanders. 


Flash(Captain),a blustering, cowardly 
braggart, ‘‘always talking of fighting 
and wars.” In the Flanders war he pre- 
tended to be shot, sneaked off into a 
ditch, and thence to England. When 
captain Loveit met him paying court to 
Miss Biddy Bellaw, he commanded the 
blustering coward to ‘deliver up his 
sword,” and added : 


** Leave this house, change the colour of your clothes and 
flerceness of your looks; appear from top to toe the 
wretch, the very wretch thou art i"-——D. Garrick, Miss in 


Her Teens (1753). 
Heury Woodward [1717-1777] was the best ‘‘Coppes 
and “ Bobadil" of Lis day.— 


Captain,” “captain = 
C. Lealie, Life af Reynolds, 

*,* ‘Copper Captain” in Rule a Wife 
and Have a Wife (Beaumont and Flet- 
cher); ‘* Bobadil” in Every Man in His 
Humour (B. Jonson). 

Flat Simplicity. ‘‘The flat sim- 

licity of that reply was admirable.”— 
Boley Cibber, Zhe Husband, i. 1 
(1728). 

Flatterer. The Romans called a 


| flatterer ‘‘a Vitellius,” from Vitellius 


president of Syria, who worshipped 
Jehovah in Jerusalem, and Calig’ula in 
Kome. - Tacitus says of him: ‘* Exemplar 
apud posteros adulatorii habetur” (Annals, 
vi. 82). 


Idem {Ficoltine} mirl tn edulande inguall ; 
ain ea x? 


aao.ari ut deum Inetitult.—Sustonim, 
r 





ad 





FLIBBERTIGIBBET. 


gives man the squint eye and harelip 
sends mildews and blight, etc. , 


ele she foul fend upbeat CRI a thing 
wed disnases 7, sq 2 the eye, 
and makes haretip ; (he) ews the a A wheel, 
and hurts the poor creature of earth.—<Xing Lear, act 
oo 
*,* Shakes t this name from 


bishop Harsnett’s Declaration of Popish 
dImpostures, where Flibberdigibet is one 
of the fiends which the Jesuits cast out of 
Mr. Edmund Peckham. 


Fid/bertigi'bet or “Dickie Sludge,” 
the dwarf grandson of Gammer Sludge 
(landlady of Erasmus Holiday, the 
schoolmaster in the vale of Whiteborse). 
In the entertainment given by the earl 
of Leicester to queen Elizabeth, Dickon 
Sladge acta the part of an imp.—Sir W. 
Scott, Kenilworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Flint (Lord), chief minister of state 
to one of the sultans of India. He had 
the enviable faculty of a very short 
memory when he did not choose to recol- 
lect. ‘*My people know, no doubt, but 
1 cannot recollect,” was his stock phrase. 
—Mrs. Inchbald, Such Things Are (1786). 


Flint, jailer in The Deserter, a musical 
drama by Dibdin (1770). 


Flint (Sir Clement), a very kind-hearted, 
generous old bachelor, who ‘trusts no 
one,” and though he professes his un- 
doubted belief to be ‘‘that self is the 
predominant principle of the human 
mind,” is never so happy 4s when duing 
an unselfish and generous act. He settles 
£2000 a year on the young lord Gayville, 
his nephew, that he may marry Miss 
Alton, the lady ofthis choice; and says, 
‘To reward the deserving, and make 
those we love happy, is self-interest in 
the extreme.”—General Burgoyne, The 
Heiress (1781). - 


Flint Jack, Edward Simpson, who 
used to tramp the kingdom, vending 
spurious flint arrow-heads, celts, and 
other imitation antiquities. In 1867 he 
was imprisoned for theft. 


Flippan’ta, an intriguing lady's- 
maid. Daughter of Mrs. Cloggit. She 
is in the service of Clarissa, and aids her 
in all her follies.—Sir John Vanbrugh, 
The Confederacy (1695). 

] aw Miss Pope for the second time In the year 1790, In 
the character of *' Flippanta °—James Smith. 

Flite (fiss), a poor crazed, good- 
hearted woman, who has lost her wits 
through the ‘‘law’s delay.” She is 
always haunting the Courts of Chancery 


FLORA. 


with “‘her documents,” hoping against 
hope that she will receive a Jad gay. tte 
a i Dickens, Bleak House, iv. (1852). 
Flock’hart ( Widow), landlady of the 
lodgings in the Canongate where Waver- 
ley and M'‘Ivor dine with the baron of 


Bradwardine (3 sy/.).—Sir W. Scott 
Waverley (time, George II.). 


Flogged by Deputy. The marquis 
de Leganez forbade e tutor of his son te 
use rigour or corporal punishment of auy 
kind, so the tutor hit upon this device to 
intimidate the boy: flogged a lad 
named Raphael, brought up with young 
Leganez as a playmate, whenever that 
yo hg nobleman deserved punishment. 
xis produced an excellent effect; but 
Raphael did not see its justice, and ran 
away.—Lesage, Gil Blas, v. i. (1724). 


Flollo or Flollio, a Roman tribune, 
who held the province of Gaul under the 
emperor Leo. When king Arthur invaded 
Gaul, the tribune fied to Paris, which 
Arthur besieged, and Flollo proposed to 
decide the quarrel by single combat. To 
this Arthur agreed, and cleft with his 
sword Caliburn both the helmet and head 
of his adversary. Having made himself 
master of all Gaul, king Arthur held his 
court at Paris.—Geoffrey, British His- 
tory, ix. 11 (1142). 

And after these . . . 
ASP rae et 
” Drayton, Pelyeibion, iv. (1612 

Flor and Blanchefior, the title 
of a minnesong by Conrad Fleck, at ona 
time immensely popular. It is the sto 
of two children who fall in love with each 
other. There is a good deal of grace and 
tenderness in the tale, with an abund- 
ance of trash. Flor, the son of Feinix, 
& pagan king, is brought up with 
Blancheflor (an enfant volé). The two 
children love each othcr, but Feinix sells 
Blancheflor to some Eastern merchants. 
Flor goes in quest of Blanchefior, whom 
he finds in Babylon, in the palace of the 
sultan, who is a sorcerer. He gains 
access to the palace, hidden in a basket 
of roses; but the sultan discovers him, 
and is about to cast both into the flames 
when, touched with human gentleness and 
love, he sets them free. They then return 
to Spain, find Feinix dead, and marry 
(fourteenth century). 


Flo’ra, goddess of flowers. In nataral 
history all the flowers and vegetable Or 
ductions of a country or locality are 








tars, the baron is slain, and the princess 





marries the count.—J. P. Kemble, Lo- | 


7. 


Florez, son of Gerrard king of the | 


beggars. He assumes the name of Gos- 
win, and becomes, in Bruges, a wealthy 
merchant. His mistress is Rertha, the 
supposed daughter of Vandunke the 
burgomaster.—Hieaumont and Fletcher, 
The Beqyars' Hush (1622). 


Florian, “the foundling of the 
forest," discovered in infancy by the 
count De Valmont, and adopted as his 
own son. Florian is light-nearted and 
volatile, but with deep affection, very 
brave, and the delight of all who know 
him. He is betrothed to his cousin, lady 
Geraldine, a ward of count De Val- 
mont.—W. Dimond, Zhe Fuundiiny of the 
Forest. 


Flor’imel “the Fair," courted by 
sir Sat’yrane, air Per'idure, and sir ('nl'i- 
dore (each 3 sy/.), but she herself “ loved 


none but Mar’incl,"” who cared not for her. | 


When Marine! was overthrowa by Brito- 
mart and waa reported to be dead, Flori- 
mel resulved to search into the truth of 
this rumour, In her wanderings, she 
came weary to the hut of a hag, but when 
she lIcft the hut the hap sent a savage 
monster to bring her back. Florimel, 

wever, Jumped into a boat and escaped, 
but fell into the hands of Proteus (2 syl.), 
Who kept her in a dungeon “deep in the 
bottom of a hae great rock,” One day, 
Marine! and his mother went to a banquet 


given by Proteus to the sea-gods; and | 


@s Marine! waa Imtering aleut, he heard 
the captive bemoaning her hard fate, and 
all “for love of Marinel.” lis heart 
was touched; he resclved to release the 
prisencr, and oljtained from his mother 
& warrant of release, signed by Neptune 
himeclf. Proteus did not dare to dis- 
obey ; the lily woe released, and became 
the happy bride of her liberator,—Spenser, 
Faéry Quewn, iii. 4, 8, and iv, 11, 12 (1690, 
1596). ; 

*,* The name Florime!l means “ honey- 
flower.” 


Fivrimel (The False), made by a witch 
of Riphw'an snow and virgin wax, with 
an iifusion of vermilion. Two burning 
lamps in silver sockets served for eves, 
fine ,old wire for locks, and for aon) “a 
sprite that had fallen from heaven,” 
Braguendocrio, seeing this falae Florimel, 
earried “her” off as the veritable Flori- 


mel; but when he was stripped of his 





FLOREZ. 841 





e o aap 


FLORINDA. 


borrowed plumes, this waxen Florimel 
vanished into thin air, leaving nothi 
behind except the “golden girdle | 
was about her waist."—Spenser, Juéry 
Queen, iii. 8, and v. 3 (1590, 1596). 


Florimel’s Girdle, a girdle which 
wave to those who wore it, "the virtue of 
chaste love and wifehood true;" if any 
woman not chaste or faithful put it o 
it immediately “loosed or tore asunder, 
It was once the cestus of Venus, bat 
when that queen of beauty wantoned with 
Mars, it fell off and waa left on the “Acie 
dalian mouont."—Spenser, Faéry Queen, 
iv. 2 (1596). 

One day, sir Cambel, sir Triamond, sir 
Paridel, sir Blandamour, and sir Ferra- 
mont agreed to give Florimel's girdle to 
the most. beautiful lady; when the pre- 
vious question was moved, ‘Who was the 
most beautiful?" Of course, each knight, 
as in duty bouad, adjudged his own lady 
to be the paragon of women, till the 
witch's image of snow and wax, made to 
represent Florimel, was produced, when 
ali agreed that it was without a peer, 
and so the girdle was handed to “‘the 
false Florimel.” On trying it on, however, 
it would in no wise fit her; and when b 
dint of pains it was at length fastened, 1¢ 
instantly loosened and fell to the ground. 
It would fit Amoret exactly, and of course 
Florimel, but not the witch's thing of 
snow and wax.—Spenser, /uéry Queen, 
iv. & (1596). : 

*.* Morgan la Fée sent king Arthur 
a hora, ont of which no lady could drink 
“who was not to herself or to her husband 
true.” Ariosto's enchanted cup possessed 
a similar spell. 

A boy showed king Arthur a mantle 
which no wife not leal could wear. If 
anv unchaste wife or maiden put it on, 
it would either go to shreds or refuse to 
drape decorously. 

At Ephesus was a grotto containing a 
statue of Diann, If oa chaste wife or 
maiden entered, a reed there (presented by 
Pan) gave forth most melodious sounds ¢ 
but of the unfaithful or unchaste entered, 
its sounds were harsh and discordant. 

Alasnam's wurror remained unsullied 
when it reflected the onsullied, but be- 
came dul! when the unchaste stood before 
it, (See Cananoc, p. 160.) 


Florin‘da, daughter of count Julian 
one of the high lords in the Gothic court 
of Spain. She was violated by king 
Roderick ; and the count, in his indigna 
tion, renouwcen the Ubristian religion wad 





a SR ATE ETT OTATEP 


"FLOWER SERMON. 





pope of wine (one of the carnation family) 
“ woman's love." 
ae the pinks, aed porple collambine, 
gillificwors ; 
; caren, agg in wits, 


ore of 
Spenser, Phe 3. ‘it Colemedor (* April,” Lara). 


Flower Sermon, sermon preached | 
every Whit Monday in St. Cather: ‘oe | 


Cree. On this occasion each of the con- 
gregation carries a bunch of flowers, and 
a bunch of flowers is also laid on the 
puloit cushion. The Flower Sermon is 
pot avw limited to St. Catherine Cree, 
other churches have adopted the custom, 


Flowerdale (Sir John), father of 
| and the neighbour of colonel 
Oldboy.—Bickerstaff, Lionel and Clarissa, 


Flowered Robes. In ancient Greece 
te say “a woman wore flowered robes" 
was the same as to say she was a fille 
pwilique. Solon made it a law that 
virtuous women should appear in simple 
ani! mudest apparel, but that harlots 
should always dresa in gay and flowered 
roles. 


As fogitive caves ore known by their silgmata, so 
fugensd garments Jodicawm one of the decl-moode 
[wot paArda].—Clemens of Alexandria 


Fiowery Kingdom (7he), China. 
The Chinese call their kingdom Hwa 
Kwok, which means “The Flowery King- 
dom," ie. the flower of kingdoms. 

Fluel'len, a Welsh captain and great 
pedant, who, amonyst other learned quid- 
dities, drew this parallel between Henry V. 
and Alexander the Great: ‘One was bom 
in Monmouth and the other in Macedon, 
both which places begin with M, and in 
both a river flowed.” —Shakespeare, Henry 
V. act iv. ac. 7 (1099), 


Flur, the bride of Cassivelaun, " for 
whose love the Roman (wear first invaded 
Britain."—Tennyson, Jdylis of the Any 
(** Enid). 


Flute (The Magic), « flute which has 
the power wf inspiring love. When given 
by the powers of darkness, the love it in- 
spires ia sensual love ; 
by the powers of light, it becomes aub- 
servient to the very holiest ends, In the 
opera called Jie Liuber tite, Tami'no and 
Pami'na are guided by it through all 


worldly dangers to the knowledge of 


divine truth (or the mysteries of Isia).— 
Mozart, Jie Zauberjidte (1791). 


Flutter, a cossip, fond of telling a | 


god story, but, unhappily, unable te do 
eo without a blunder, "A good-natured, 


but when bestowed | 





insiguificant creature, admitted »very- 
where, but cared for nowhere” (sct i. 3). 
—Mrs. Cowley, Zhe Beile's Lem 
(1780). 


Fly-gods, Beelzebub, a god of the 
Philistines, supposed to "ward off flies, 
Achor was worshipped by the Cyr@neans 
forasimilarobject. Zeus Apomy’ios was 
the fly-god of the Greeke. 


On the aad olde of aloft, 
Write Machial, Toonnal ant Sam ‘oret ; 


. Johnaon, rhea lodermdad, |. aA 

Flying Dutchman (The¢)}, a 
tom ship, seen in stormy weather o the 
Cape of Good Hope, and thought to fore- 
bode ill luck. The legend is that it was 
a vessel laden with precious metal, but a 
horrible murder having been committed 
on board, the plague broke out among 
the crew, and no port would allow the 
ship to enter, so it was doomed to float 
about like a ghost, and never to enjoy 
rest.—Sir W. Scott 

*.* Another legend is that a Dutch 
captain, homeward bound, met with long- 
continued head winds off the Cape, but 
swore he would double the Cape and not 
put back, if he strove till the day of doom. 
le was taken at hia word, and there he 
still beats, but never succeeds in rounding 
the point. 

(Captain Marryat has a novel founded 
on this legend, called The Phantom Ship, 
LBS. ) 


Flying Highwayman, Williom 
Harrow, whe leaped his horse over turn- 
pike gates aa if it had been furnished 
with wings. Ile was executed in 1768. 


Flyter (Afrs.), landlady of the lodg- 
ings occupied by Frank Usbaldistone in 
Glasgow.—Sur W. Scott, Aud Hoy (time, 
George I.). 

Foible, the intriguing lady's-maid of 
lady Wishfort, and married to Waitwell 
(lackey of Edward Mimbell). She inter- 
lards her remarks with “says he," “the 


agave says be," ‘“* she mye! dy es 
etc.—W. Congreve, The ays in 
World (1700). 


Foi'gard (futher), one of a gan, 
of thieves. He pretends to be a Fren 
iieat, but “his French shows him to be 
‘nglish, and his English shows him to 


be Insli."—Farnjubar, Die Beaur’ Strata- 


gem (1105), 
Folair’ (2 sy/.), a pantomimist at the 
Portsmouth Theatre, under the manaye- 








FOOLS, JESTERS, ETC. 


FOOLS, JESTERS, ETC. 





king James for sheep-steali 

implored that he might live 
he had read his Bible through for his 
wejoined, w This was granted, and Archie 
with asly louk, “Then de’il tak’ 

win | ever read a word on't!” 

vt “‘joculator” to William the 
towns and five cara- 


jt 


by the king. 

Biusgt p’ARnERES (seventeenth cen- 
tury), fool to the duke of Mantua. 
During a pestilence, he conceived the idea 

offering his life as a ransom for his 
en, and actually starved himself 
to stay the plague. 

Boxy (Patrick), Roster te the regent 


Morton. 
(Andrew), usually called 
aSdrew " physician to Henry 
Merry Andrew 
Of this court fool Bran- 


Riis 


BrusQuer. 


). 
(Cc ulaume), who flourished about 
1490. is likeness is Bots ( in the 
frontispiece of the Ship of Fools (1497). 

Cuicort, jester of Henri II]. and Henri 
IV. Alexandre Dumas has a novel 
called Chicot the Jester sy predecess 

CoLQuHouN (Jemmy predecessor of 
James (Geddes, jester in the court of 
Mary queen of Scots. 

Coryat, “‘ prince of non-official jesters 
and coxcombe,” Kept by prince Henry, 
brother of Charles I. 

CouLom, doctor and jester to Louis 
XVIII. He was the very prince of 
mimics, He sat for the portraits of 
Thiers, Mold, and comte Joseph de Villéle 
(died 1858). 

Da’conet (Sir), jester to king Arthur. 
He was knighted by the king himself. 

DERRI£, @ court jester to James I. 
Contemporary with Thom. 

Durresnoyr, poet, playwright, actor, 
gardener, glass-manufacturer, spend- 
thrift, wit, and honorary fool to Louis 
XIV. His jests are the “Joe Millers” 
of France. 

Gevpes (James), jester in the court of 
Mary queen of Scots. He was daft, and 
followed Jemmy Colquhoun in the motley. 

Gronizut (Le), jester of Charles le 

ard of B 

GONKLLA, domestic jester of the duke 
of Ferrara. His jests are in print. 
Gonella used to ride a horse all skin 
and bone, which is spoken of in Don 


Harop (Jack). a retainer in the house 


of Mr. Bartlett, of Castlemorton, Worcee- 
tershire. He died af the close of the 
eighteenth cen century, and birth 
to the expression * As big @ ‘ool as Jack 
Hafod.” He was the ulimus sourrarwm 
in Great Britain. 

Herywoop (JoAn), author of numerous 
dramatic works (1492-1565). 

Jean (Seigni), or ‘Old John;" so 
called to distinguish him from Jean of 
Johan, called Le Fol de Madame (fi. 1880). 

Jonax, Le Fol de Madame, mentioned 
by Marot in (8) itaphs. 

Johnson (3), familiarly known as 

6 character he 


his own exisevagansn of 
K Gensral), " Sax general, 
gavw a on 
famous for his broad jests. 

KILLIGREW ( Thomas), called ‘king 
Charles's jester” (1611- 1682). 

LONGELY jester to Louis XIII. 

NARR (Ki aus), Jester to Frederick 
“the Wise,” elector of Prussia. 

Pace. 

Patcn, court fool of Elizabeth wife 
of Henry VII. 

PaTcHe, cardinal Wolse ve jester. 
The cardinal made Henry Ill. a pre- 
sent of this ‘‘ wise fool, cf and the 
returned word that “the gift was a most 
acceptable one.’ 

Patis0N, licensed jester to sir Thomas 
More. He is introduced by Hans Hol- 
bein in his famous picture of the lord 
chancellor. 

Paul (Jacob), baron Gundling. This 
merrvman was laden with titles in ridi- 
cule by Frederick William I. of Prussia. 

Pearce (Dice), fool of the earl of 
Suffolk. Dean Swift wrote an epitcph 
aes j Henry I. of 

AYERE, court jeter to Henry I. 
land. 


t08sEN (Kunz von der), private jester 
to the emperor Maximilian Y 

ScoGAN, court jester to Edward IV. 

Soc.1a (Cardinal), the fun-maker of 
pope Gregory XVI. He was succeeded 

y Aopi. 

Somers ( Will), court jester to Henry 
VIII. The effigy of this jester is at 
Hampton Court. And in Old Fish Street 
was once a public-house called Will 
Somers’s tavern (1490-1560). 

STK ALIN (Professor), in the household 
of czarina Elizabeth of Russia. Ho was 
teacher of mathematics and history to 
the grand-duke (Peter II.), and was alse 
his licensed buffoon, 

Iurletun (Richard), the famous dlewn 


and so on.—Sheridan, A Trip to Scar- 
porous (1777). 

*." This comedy is The Relapse, 
slightly altered and curtailed, 

Ford, a gentleman of fortune living 
at Windsor, He assumes the name of 
rook, and being introduced to sir John 
Falstaff, the knight informs him “ of 
his whole course of wooing,” and how at 
one time he eluded Mra. Ford's jealous 
husband by being carried out before his 
eyes in a buck-basket of dirty linen,— 
Act ii. se. 5, 

Mrs. Ford, wife of Mr. Ford. Sir 
John Falstaff pays court to her, and she 
— to accept his protestations of 
ove, in order to expose and puniah him. 
Her husband assumes for the nonce the 
name of Brook, and sir John tells him 
from time to time the progress of his 
suit, and how he succeeds in duping her 
fool of a husband.—Shakespeare, Merry 
Wives of Windsor (1596). 


Forde'lia (i sy/.), wife of Bran'di- | 


mart (Orlando's intimate friend). When 
Drandimart was slain, Fordelia dwelt for 
atime in his sepulchre in Sicily, and 
died broken-hearted. (See FourpELts.)— 
Anoato, Uriandy Furivso (1516), 

Forehead. A high forehead was at 
one time deemed a mark of beauty in 
women; hence Felice, the wife of Guy of 
Warwick, is described as having “the 
same high forehead as Venus,"—/istery 
of Guy of Warwick, 

Fore'sight (2 syl.), © mad, super- 
stitious old man, who “consulted the 
etars, and believed in omens, portents, 
and predictions.” [le referred “ man's 
goatish disposition to the charge of a 
etar,” and says he himeelf was “born 
when the Crab was ascending, so that all 
his affairs in life have gone backwards.” 

i know the signa, and the planets, and their houses; 
ean judge of mothone, direct wml retrograda, of mrtiba, 
Qumirates, tring, and oppaitions, fiery bLrigons snd 
aquatic trigona Know whather life shall he lung of 
short, happy or unhappy ; whether diseases are curable of 
fneuebte : of journeys shal! be prosperous, undertakings 
eicemeful, or shulen goxks recoversd.—H. Congreve, Love 
for Love, IL (1G05). 

Forester (Sir Philip), a libertine 
knight. He goes in disguise to lady 
Hothwell's ball on his return from the 
Continent, but, being recognized, decampa. 

Lod, Jemuna Firesie, wife of air 
Thilip, who goes with her sister Indy 
Bothwell to consult “the enchanted 
mirror,” in which they discover the clan- 
destine marrisge and infidelity of air 
Philip. —Sir W. Scott, Aunt Maryaret's 
Wirror (time, William I1}.). 





FORD. 847 








FORGERIES 
Forgeries (Literary). 
Bertram (C. Julius), professor of 


English at Copenhagen, professed to have 
discovered, in 1747, the De Situ Bri , 

of Richardus Corinensis, in the library of 
that city; and in 1757 he published it 
with two other treatises, calling the whole 
The Three Writers on the Ancient History 
of the Lfritish Nations (better known as 
Seriptores Tres). His forgery was ex- 
posed by J. EB. Mayor, in his preface 


to Hicardi de Cirencestria Speculum Hiv- 


foriale, 
CMATTERTON (Thomas), in 1777, pul - 
lished certain poems, which he affinncd 


were written in the fifteenth century by 


Thomas Rowley, a monk. The poets 
oer and Mason detected the forgery. 
His other literary forgeries were: (1) 
The Pedijree of Burgum (a Bristol pew- 
terer), professed to have been discovered 
in the muniment-room of St. Mary's 
Church, Redcliffe He accordingly 
printed a history of the ‘‘ De Bergham” 


family, with a m called Ro- 
mamt of the Cnyghte, by John de 
Bergham (fourteenth century). (2) A 
forged account of the opening of the old 


bridge, signed ‘‘ Dunhelmus Bristoliensis,” 
and peat to have been copied from 
an old MS. (3) An Account of Bristol, 
by Turgotus, “‘ translated out of Saxon 
into EKnglials, by T. Rowley.” This 
forgery was made for the use of Mr. 


| Catcott, who was writing a history of 


Bristol, 
Ine.asp (8S. W. 4.) published, in 
folio, 1796, Miscellaneous Papers and 


Jnetruments, under the hand and seal o 
William Shakespeare, including the 

of Ainy Lear and a acl armen of 
Hamicet, from the oripinal, price £4 4s. 
Hie actually soduced MSS. which he 
had forged, aud which he pretended were 
original. 

On April 2, 1796, the play of Vort:- 
gern ami ouwena, “from the pen of 
Shakespeare,” was announced for repre- 
sentation. It drew a most crowded 
house; but the fraud was detected, and 
Ireland made s public declaration of his 
impositions, from inning to end. 

Mewrz, who lived in the ninth century, 
published fifty-nine decretals, whic he 
asserted were by Isidore of Seville, who 
lived three centuries previously. The 
object of these forged letters was to exalt 
the papacy and to corroborate certain 
dogmas. 

At Liremen, in 1837, were printed nine 
books of Saxcuonr’aTHON, and it was said 





(3 sy!.) the kin 
tesse D'Aunoy, 
eo 2 The 
ins. 
Fortunio’s Horse, Comrade, which not 
only possessed incredible speed, but knew 
all things, and was gifted with human 


speech. 
Fortunio’s Attendants. 


Trinquet drank up the lakes and ponds, and thus caught 
7 fish. Lightfoot hanted 


of her country.—Com- 
airy Tales (1682). 
e is reproduced in Grimm’s 


Marksman, he gave neither partridge nor pheasant any 
quarter; and va? amount of gaine shot, 
would carry without incunrenience.—Com 


tewe D’Aunoy, Suiry Tales (** Fortunio,” 1683). 

Fortunio’s Sisters. Whatever gifts 
Fortunio sent her sisters, their touch 
rendered them immediately worthless. 
Thus the coffers of jewels and gold, ‘‘be- 
came only cut glass and false pistoles” 
the moment the jealous sisters touched 
them. 

Fortunio’s Turkey-leather Trunk, full 
of suits of all sorts, swords, jewels, and 
gold. The fairy told Fortunio ‘‘ she 
needed but to stamp with her foot, and 
call for the Turkev-leather trunk, and it 
would always come to her, full of money 
and jewels, fine linen and laces.”—Com- 
tease D'Aunoy, Fuiry Tules (1682). 


Forty Thieves, also called the tale 
of ‘‘ Ali Baba.” These thieves lived in a 
vast cave, the door of which opened and 
shut at the words, ‘Open, Sesamé!” 
“Shut, Sesamé!” One day, Ali Ba 
a wood-moncer, accidentally discovere 
the seoret, and made himself rich by 
carrying off gold from the stolen hoards. 
The captain tricd several schemes to dis- 
cover the thicf, but was always outwitted 
by Morgia’na, the wood-cutter’s female 
slave, who, with boiling oil, killed tho 
whole band, and at length stabbed the 
captain himself with his own dagyer.— 
Aradiun Nights (‘* Ali Baba or the Forty 
Thieves"). 

Forty-five (Vo. 45), the celebrated 
number of Wilkes's North Britain, in 
which the ministers were accused of 
‘* patting a lie into the king's mouth.” 


Forwards (Marshal). Blucher is so 
ealled for his dash and readiness to attack 
in the camnvaignu of 1813 (1742-1819). 


Fosca’ri (Francis), doge of Venice 
for thirty-five years. lle saw three of his 
sons die, and the fourth, named Jac’opo, 
was banished by the Council of Ten for 
takiny bribes from his country’s enemies. 
The old doge alse was deposed at the age 


FORTY THIEVES. 849 
and servants, Fortunio married Alfurite 


FOSTER. 


of 84. As he was descending the “‘ Giant 
Staircase” to take leave of his son, he 
heard the bell announce the election of 
his successor, and he dropped down dead. 

Jac’opo Foscari, the fourth and only 
surviving son of Francis Foscari the doge 
of Venice. He was banished for taking 
bribes of foreign princes. Jacopo h 
been several times tortured, and died soon 
after his banishment to Candia.—Byron, 
The Two Fuscari (1820). 

*,* Verdi has taken this subject for aa 
opera. 


Foss (Corporal), a disabled soldier, 
who served many years under lieutenant 
Worthington, and remained his ordinary 
when the lieutenant retired from the ser- 
vice. Corporal Foss loved his master and 
Miss Emily the lieutenant’s daughter, 
and he gloried in his profeasion. Though 
brusque in manner, he was tender-hearted 
as a child.—G. Colman, Zhe Poor Gentle- 
man (1802). 

*,* Corporal Foss is modelled from 
‘‘corporal Trim,” in Sterne’s Jristram 
Shandy (1759). 


Foss-way, the longest of the Roman 
roads, from Mt. Michael, in Comwall, to 
Caithness (the furthest north of Scotland). 
Drayton says the Foss-way, Watling 
Street, and Iknicld Street were con- 
structed by Mulmutius, son of Cloten 
kinz of Cornwall, who gained the sceptre 
of Britain after the period of anarchy 
which followed the murder of Porrex by 
his mother (about n.c. 700). 

The Foss exceeds me { Watling Strret} many a mile, 
That holds from shore to shore the length of all the isla, 
Fruan where rich Cornwall points to the Iberian seas, 
Til co.der Caithness tells the scattered Orcades. 
Drayton, Polyolbion, xvi. (1613). 

Foster (Captain), on guard at Tully 
Veclan ruin.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George II.). 


Foster, the English champion.—Sir W. 
Scott, The Laird’s Juck (time, Elizabets:). 


Foster (Anthony) or ‘ Tony-fire-the- 
Faggot,” agent of the earl of Leicester at 
Cumnor Place.—Sir W. Scott, Aenal- 
worth (time, Elizabeth). 


Foster (Sir John), the English warden. 
—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Munustery (time, 
Elizabeth). 


Foster (Dr. James), a disscuviing 
minister, who preached on Sunday even 
ings for above twenty years, from 1/28- 
1749, in Old Jewry (died 1753). 

Let modest Foster, if he will, exeel 
Ten metropolitans in preaching well. Pope, 








—— =< -—— 


FOUL-WEATHER JACKE. 


Foul-weather Jack, comendlient | 
Byron (1723-1786). 

Foundling (T7h-z). 
mond, whose mother died in childbirth, 
wae committed to the charge of @ 
yourernanic, who announced to her father 
(aur Charles ‘Ray mond) that the child was 
dead, This, however, was not true, for 
the gowrernante changed the child's 
name to Fidelia, and sold her at the age 
of 12 to one Villiard. One night, Charles 
Belmont, passing Villiard'’s house, beard 
the cries of a girl for help; he reseued her 
and took her to his own home, where he 
gave her in charge to his sister Kosetta, 
‘he two girlae became companions atid 
frends, and Charles fell in lowe with the 
“founding.” The gourerumic, on er 
death-bed, revealed the secret tocir Charles 
Raymond, the mystery was cleated api, 
and Fidelia became the wife of Charles 
Telmont. Rosetta gave her hand to 
Fidelia’s trother, colonel Kaymond.— 
Edward Moore, Tie Fowndling (1748), 


Fountain, Bellamore, aid 
Hare’brain, suitors to lady itartwell, 
a Widow, 
tine the gallant, who would nn 
Sime) to keep bis estate. —Henin ot 
and Fletcher, Wit withowt Money (1639). 


—x = = 








Harriet Ray- | 


Womktbasies 
| Molitee (1671). Seapi 


 gitodem lyw the 


with Heaecimthe. whom he sup 


They are the chums «of Valer- | 
le pur= | 





FOURTEEN. - 


arrows ; while on the surface of the 
tamulna was plana the horn of o deer, 


Four mone: ree on the grav of CAthbe . ,. Cathlra, 
-_ és, SS enh lo Dein —O ion, 





de Sca a hia » Wy 
son of seignior (idronte (2 in 
who arg gs in love eith 455 
posed to be a gipsy, but in reality 
daughter of semmior Argante (2 sy/l.), 
peices in ue ® childhend, 
a (2 oy!.) falls in love 
supposes to be 
Hracinthe Fapiolehip of Tarentum, Tout 
woo turns out to be Hyacinthe Gerontn, 
the sister of Landre. “Now, the Li rm 
demand £1400 as the ransom er- 
binette, and Octave requires £0 for his 
marringe with Ulyacinthe, Sempin ob- 
taine both these snma from the fathers 
under false pretences, and at the end of 
the comedy is brought im on o litter, with 
his head bound as if on the point of death, 
He hegs forgiveness, which he readily 
obtains; whereupon the “sick man’ 
jumps from the litter to join the ban- 
Queters. (See Scarry.) 


Pourde'lis, personification of Franee, 
called the true love of Kurlan ( Henri /V,), 
het enticed nwavy from him hr (prantorto 


Her brother 





FOURTEEN. 851 





FRANCESCA. 





this sack, if you oniy say ‘Artchila murt- 
chila!’” (i.6. ‘‘come (or go) into my 
sack”). Fourteen’s last achievement was 
this: He went to paradise, and boing re- 
fused admission, poked his sack through 
the keyhole of the door; then crying out 
“ Artchila murtchila!" (‘get into the 
sack"), he found himeelf on the other side 
of the door, and, of course, in paradise. — 
Rev. W. Webster, Basque Leyends, 195 
(1877). 

Fourteen. This number plays a very 
conspicnous in French history, 
especially in the reigns of Henri lV. and 
Louis XIV. For example: 

14th May, 1699, the frst Henri was consecrated, and 
lath May, 1610, the iast Heari was 

14 letters composes the name of Henri de Bourden, the 


ligh king of France and Navarre. 
rtes, 14 decades, end 14 


the erronnerie. This order was carried out, 
and 4 times 14 years later Henri [V. was asenssinated 


rather than serve the buguenot king, Henri IV. 
léth November, 1302, the Paris pariement 
the papal bull which excluried Hen: 


1V. frot ee 
. in reigning. 
Lith December, 1609, the duke of Gavoy was reconciled 
w Henri IV. 


lith September, 1606, the danphin (Louis XIIL), son of 
Henri [V., was baptized. 

14th May, 1610, Ravailiac murdered Henri IV. in the 
Rue de la Ferronnerie. Henri LV. lived 4 times 14 years 
14 weeks, and 4 times 14 dars, {.¢.56 years and 6 months. 

14th May, 1648, died Louis XIII., sun of Heurl IV. (the 
eame day and month as his father). And 1643 added to- 
gether = 14; just as 1553 (the Dirta of Ilenri IF jo ld. 

Louis XIV. mounted the throne 1613, which added to- 

ver =n 14, 

Louis XIV, died 1715, which added there 14 

Louis XIV. lved 77 years, which ther=14 

Louis XV. mounted the throne 1715, which added to- 


gether = 14. 

Louts XY. died 1774 (the two extremes are 14, and the 
two means 77 214 

Louis XVL published the edict for the convocation of 
the states- general in the 14th year of his reign (September 


Z?, 1788). 
Louis XVIII. wae restored to the throne, N 


apoleon 
abidicated, the ‘Peace of Paris” was ned, and the 
“ Congress of Vienna” met in 1814; and these figures 


added together = 14. 

In 1831— 14, was the death of the duc de Reichstadt (only 
son of Napoloun [.). 

In 184114, the law wae pased for the fortification of 


In 1880 214, Louls Philippe died. 


Fourteen Hundred! the cry on 
‘Change when a stranger enters the sacred 
precincts. The question is then asked, 

‘Will you purchase my new navy five 

r cents., sir’ after which the stranger 
« hustled out without mercy. 

Fox (That), Herod Antipas (B.c. 4 to 
an. 89). 


Go ye, and tel] that fox, Behold, I cast out devila — 
Sebe xiii. 33. 


Fox (The Old), marshal Soult (1769- 
1851). 


Foxley (Squire Matthew), a 
trate ee aimee Darsie Delmer 1.6. 
sir Arthur Darsie Redgauntlet], after he 
had been attacked by the rioters.—Sir 
Wi  Beott, Redgauntiet (time, George 


Fracasse (Capitaine), the French 
Bombastes Furioso.—Theophile Gautier. 


Fra Diavolo, the sobriquet of 
Michel Pozza, a Calabrian insurgent and 
brigand chief. In 1799 cardinal Ruffo 
made him a colonel in the Neapolitan 
army, but in 1806 he was captured by the 
French, and hanged at Naples. Auber 
has a comic-opera so enti the libretto 
of which was written by Scribe, but 
nothing of the true character of the 
brigand chief appears in the opera. 


Fradu'bdio [i.¢. brother Doubt]. ta 
his youth he loved Frelissa, but riding 
with her one day they encountered a 
knight accompanied by Duessa (false 
faith), and fought to decide which lad 
was the fairer. The stranger knight fell, 
and both ladies being saddled on the 
victor, Duessa changed her rival into a 
tree. One day Fradubio saw Duessa 
bathing, and was so shocked at her de- 
formity that he determined to abandon 
her, but the witeh anointed him during 
sleep with herbs to produce insensibility, 
and then planted him as a tree beside 
Frelissa. The Red Cross Knight plucked 
a bough from this tree, and seeing with 
horror that blood dripped from the nift, 
was told this tale of the metamorphosis. 
—Speuser, Faéry Queen, i. 2 (1590). 


Frail (3frs.), ademirep. Scandal says 
she is a mixture of ‘‘ pride, folly, affec- 
tation, wantonncss, inconstancy, covetous- 
ness, dissimulation, malice, and ignorance, 
but a celebrated beauty" (acti.). She is 
entrapped into marriage with Tattle.—W. 
Congreve, Luve for Luve (1695). 


Francatelli, a chef de cuisine at 
Windsor Castle, Crockford’s, and at the 
Freemasons’ Tavern. He succeeded Uda 
at Crockford's. 


Frances, daughter of Vandunke 
(2 syl.) burgomaster of Bruges.—Beau- 
mont and Fletcher, Zhe Begyars’ Bush 
(2522). 

Francesca, daughter of Guido da 
Polenta (lord of Ravenna). She was given 
by her father in marriage to Lanciotto, 








FRANKLIN. 








eto 


FREDERICK THE GREAT. 





of ; but on her death-bed her hus- 
band went to see her, and forgave her,.— 
John Heywood, A Woman Ailed 
Ainaness (1576-1645). 


_Pranklin (Lady), the half-sister of 
sir John Vesey, and a young widow. 
Lady Franklin an angelic temper, 
which nothing disturbed, and she really 
believed that “whatever is is best.” She 
could bear with unrufiled feathers even 
the failure of a new cap or the disappoint- 
ment of a new gown. This paragon of 
women loved and marred Mr. Graves, 
a dolorous widower, for ever sighing over 
the superlative excellences of his “‘sainted 
Maria,” his first wife.—Lord L. Bulwer 
Lytton, Money (1840). 


Frontlin (The Polish),'Thaddeus Czacki | 


(1705-1813), 


Franklin’s Tale (7ic), in Chancer’s 
Canterbury ‘Tales, is that of ** Dorigen and 
Arvir'agus.” Dorigen, a Indy of rank, 
married Arviragus, out of pity for his 
love and meekness, One Aurélius tried 
to corrupt her, but she said she would 
pbever listen ta his suit tall ** on these 
coasts there n'is no stone y-seen.” Aure- 
linus contrived by magic to clear the coast 
of stones, and <Arviragus insisted that 
Dorigen should keep touch with him. 
When Aurelius heard thereof, and saw 
the deep grief of the lady, he said he 
would rather die than injure so true a 
wife and so noble a gentleman, 

*,* This tale is taken from The De- 
cuncron, x. 5, (See DIiASOKA, p- 251.) 
There is also a very similar one in Boc- 
eaccio's Philucopo, 


Frankly (Caries), a light-hearted, 
joy ous, ent Usiastic young man, in love 
with Clarinda, whom he miarries,—Dr. 
Hoadly, Tie Suspicivus Hushund (1747). 


Franval (.Madame), born of a noble 
family, is proud as the prondest of the 
old French noblesse, Captain St. Alme, 
the son uf a merchant, lowes her daughter ; 
but the haughty aristocrat looks with 
disdain on such an alliance. However, 
her danzlter Murianne is of another way 
of think ing, and loves the merchant's 
een. Ther brother intercedes in her behalf, 
are) ‘iddame makes a virtne of necessity, 
with as much grace as possible.— 
it ileroft, Pw fh af tru Liter (Ly HO). 


Fra'teret'to, 0 fiend, whotold Edgar 
teat Nero wis an angler in the Lake of 
Darkness. — Shakespeare, Aing 
W605). 


Lear | 





Fraud, seen by Danté between the the 
sixth and seventh circles of the Inferno, 


His hen and upper pert expel on lool, 
Bat inhi oot on the shore bis bestia) oad, 
His ince the seth of o Jost man's wore 
ag kiod aod gracious was Its gutword cheerh 

12 rest wi kerpentall Two shaggy claws 
Reached to the armplu, aed the tact ood bres 
And elther dde were paloted o'er wilh nodes 


And orbit 
Danté, Mell, xvii. (1990), 


Freckles Cured. “ The entrails of 
crocodiles,’ says Ovid, “are excellent to 
take freckles or spots from the face and 
to whiten the skin,” As Pharos, an island 
in the mouth of the Nile, abounded in 
crocodiles, the poet advises those who are 
ewarthy and freckled to use the Pharian 
wash, 

I pwarthy, to the Plarian rornieh fy, 
Wl, at af Loe, il, (a, FL, 


Fred or Frederick Lewis prince of 
Wales, father of George III., was struck 
by a cricket-ball in front of Cliefden 
House, in the autuinn of 1750, and died 
the following spring. It was of this 
prince that it was written, by way of 
epitaph : 

He war alive, and b demi; 


Agel as it is only Fred, 
Why, there's no more te be eal, 


Frederick, the usurping duke, father 
of Celia and uncle of Rosalind. He was 
about to make war upon his bamshed 
brother, when a hermit encountered him, 
and so completely changed him that he 
not only restored his brother to his duke- 
dom, but he retired to a relizious house, 
and passed the rest of his life in penitenve 
and acts of devotion.—Shakespeare, As 
Fuu Like Jt (1598). 


Frederick, the unnatural and licentions 
brother of Alphonso king of Naple 
whose kingdom he usurped. He trie 
to seduce Evanthé (3 sy/.), tne chaste 
wife of Valerio, Lut not succeeding in hia 
infamous desivo, he offered her as a con- 
culine for one month to any one who, at 
the end of that period, would vield bis 
head to the block. As no one would 
accept the terms, Evanthé was restored 
to her husband. —l\eaumont and Fletcher, 
A Wife fur a Month (1624). 


Frederick (Don), a Portuge 
ps friend of don Felix.— 
he Wonder (1714), 


Frederick the Great in Flight. 
In 1741 wos the battle of Molwitz, io 
which the russians carried the day, and 
the Austrians tled ; but Frederick, who 
vommianuded the cavalry, was ac} to Pig hs 

A 


remy ed 
Centlivre, 








FRIAR'S TALE. 


Ne 


thermore called Fratres Majores, and the 
Franciscans Fratres Minores, 

(For friars famed in fable or story, see 
under each respective name or pseu- 
donym.) 

Friar’s Tale { The), by Chaucer, in 
The Canterbury Tales (1388). An arch- 
deacon employed o sumpnour as his 
eecret spy to find out offenders, with the 
view of exacting fines from them. In 
order to accomplish this more effectually, 


the sumpnour entered into a compact ) 


with the devil, disguised as a yeoman. 
Those who imprecated the devil were to 
be dealt with by the yeoman-devil, and 
those who imprecated God were to be 
the sumpnours share. They came in 
time to an old woman “‘of whom they 
knew no wrong,” and demanded twelve 
pence “for cursing.” She pleaded 
poverty, when the sumpnour exc imed, 
“‘The foul fiend fetch me if 1 excuse 
thee!" and immediately the foul fiend 
at bis side did seize him, and made off 
with him too. 


Fribble, a contemptible molly- 
coddle, troubled with weak nerves, Ile 
“apenks like a lady for all the world, and 
never swears. . . . He wears nice white 
gloves, and tells bis lady-love what 
nbbons become her complexion, where 
to stick her patches, who is the best 
milliner, where they sell the best tea, 
what is the best wash for the face, and 
the best paste for the hands. He is 
always playing with his lady's fan, and 
showing his teeth.” Lle says when he is 
marned : 


"A the demestic boeness will be taken from my wife's 
bands | hall moake the te, comb the nig, and Ure 
the children myeell."—D. Garrick, Misi in Mer Tern i. 
(i; Ba). 


Friday (Jfy man), a voung Indian, | 


whom Robinson Crusoe saved from death 
ona Friday, and kept as his servant and 
companion on the desert island.— Defoe, 
Folunson Crusoe (1711). 


Friday Street (Londen). So called 
because it was the atreet of fishmongers, 
who served the Friday markets.—Stow. 

Friday Tree (A), a» trial, mis- 
fortune, or cross; oo called from the 
“accursed tree" on which the Saviour 
waa crucified on a Friday, 

Friend (se foor Man's), 
Gwynne (1642-1691). 

Friend of Man (Tie), the marquis 
de Mirabeau; so called from one of bis 


hell 


eed 


FROG. 


books, entitled L’ Ami des Hommes (1715~ 
1789). 


Friends. 

Frenchmen: Montaigne and Etienne de 
la Bottie. 

Germans: Goethe and Schiller. ° 

Greeks: Achillés and _ Patroc’los; 
Diomédés and Sthen’alos ; Epaminondas 
and Pelop’idas; Harmo’dias and Aristo- 
i’‘ton ; Herculés and Iola’os ; Idomeneus 
4 syl.) and Merion ; Pyl’adés and Ores’- 
tés; Septim’ios and Alcander; Thesecs 
(2 syl.) and Pirith’ots. 

Jews: David and Jonatnan; Christ 
and the beloved disciple. 
OS Mohan Damon and Pythias; 

arissa and Amoret. 

Trojans: Nisus and Eury alus. 
Ot Feudal History: Amys and Amy- 

on. 


Friends Falling out. 
Paint friends, when they fal) out, most ervel foomen ba. 
Spenser, Fadry Queen, iv. 8 (1008). 
Friendly (Sir Thomas), a gouty 
baronet living at Friendly Hall. 
Lady Friendly, wife of sir Thomas. 
Frank Friendly, son of sir Thomas 
and fellow-collegian with Ned Blushing- 


ton. 

Dinah Friendly, daughter of mr 
Thomas. She marries Edward Blushing- 
ton ‘‘the bashful man.”"—W. T. Mon- 
erieff, The Bashsul Man. 


Frithiof [ Frit.yof], a hero of Ice- 
landic story. He married Ingéborg 
[Jn.ye.boy’e}, daughter of a petty Norwe- 
gian kiny, and the widow of Himng. His 
adventures are recorded in an ancient 
Icelandic saga of the thirteenth century. 

*,* Bishop Tegner has made this 
story the groundwork of his poem en- 
titled RLS s Saja, 

cae n s Sword, Angurva’del, 

*,* Frithuf means ** peace-maker,” 
and Anyurtudel means ‘stream of an- 
guish.”” 


Fritz (Old), Frederick II. ‘the 
Great,” king of Prussia (1712, 1740- 
1788), 

Fritz, a gardener, passionately fond of 
flowers, the only subject he can talk 
about.—E. Stirling, The Prisoner of 
State (1847). 

Frog (Nic.), the linen-draper. The 
Dutch are so called in Arbuthnot's Aistos y 
of John Bull, 





Nie. was se cunning, sly rogue, quite the reverse of 
Jon [Bel/}in many ‘ > covetous tragal ; ssinded 
dumestic : would pinch his belly to eave his peshet 3 








FULGENTIO. 857 





in England. The skit is meant to sa- 
tirize the parrenu English abroad. 

Phil Fudyc, £sq., father of Bob and 
Biddy Fudge; a hack writer devoted 
to legitimacy and the Bourbons. He 
is a secret agent of lord Castlereagh 

Kar.'sl.ray], to whom he addresses letters 

and ix., and points out to his lordship 
that Robert Fudye will be very glad te 
receive a snug Government appointment, 
and hopes that his lordship will not fai 
to bear him in mind. Letter vi. he ad- 
dresses to his brother, showing how the 


Fudge family is prospering, and ending 
us: 


' Should we but still the sway 


enjoy 
Of Sidmouth and of Castlereagh, 
1 hope ere long to see the day 
When England's wisest statesmen, judges, 
Lawyers, peers, will all be—Fupags. 


Miss Biddy Fudyje, a sentimental girl 
of 18, in love with ‘‘ romances, high bon- 
nets, and Mde. le Roy.” She writes 
letters i., v., x., and xii., describing to 
her friend Dolly or Dorothy the sights 
of Paris, and especially how she be- 
comes acquainted with a gentleman 
whom she believes to be the king of 
Prussia in disyuise, but afterwards she 
discovers that her dis.cuised king calls 
himself ‘‘colonel Calicot.” Going with 
her brother to buy some handkerchiefs, 
her visions of glory are sadly dashed 
when ‘the hero she fondly had fancied 
a king” turns out to be a common 
linen-draper. ‘‘ There stood the vile trea- 
cherous thing, with the yard-measure in 
his hand.” ‘One tear of compassion for 
your poor heart-broken friend. P.S.— 

ou will be delighted to know we are 
going to hear Krunel to-night, and have 
obtained the governor's box ; we shall all 
enjoy a hearty good laugh, I am sure.” 

ob or Kobert Fudye, son of Phil 
Fudge, Esq., a young exquisite of the 
first water, writes letters iil. and viii. to 
his friend Richard. These letters describe 
how French dandies dress, eat, and kill 
time.—T. Moore (1818). 

*.* A sequel, called The Fudge Family 
in England, was published. 


Fulgentio, a kinsman of Roberto 
(king of the two Sicilies). Ele was the 
most rising and most insolent man in 
the court. Cami’ola calls him ‘‘a suit- 
broker,” and savs he had the worst report 
among all good men for bribery and ex- 
tortion. This canker obtained the king's 
leave for his marriage with Camidla, and 
he pleaded his suit as aright, not a favour ; 
but the lady rejected him with scorn, and 
Adoni killed the arrogant “sprig of no- 


FUROR. 


bility "in a duel.—Massinger, The Maid 
of Honour (1637). 

Fulmer, a man with many shifts, 
none of which succeeded. He says: 


TI have beat through every quarter of the compass. . . 
I have blustered for prerogative; 1 have bellowed for 
freedom; I have offered to serve country; I have 
engaged to betray it... I have ed treason, writ 





Patty Fulmer, an unprincipled, flashy 
woman, living with Fulmer, with the 
brevet rank of wife. She is a swindler, 
a scandal-monger, anything, in short, to 
turn a penny by ; but her villainy brings 
her to grief.—Cumberland, The West 
Indian (1771). 


-Fum, George IV. The Chinese fem 
is a mixture of goose, stag, and snake, 
with the beak of a cock ; a combination 
of folly, cowardice, malice, and conceit. 

And where is Fum the Fourth, our royal bird f 
Byron, Don Juan, xi 78 (1884). 

Fum-Hoam, the mandarin who re- 
stored Malek-al-Salem king of Georgia 
to his throne, and related to the king "s 
daughter Gulchenraz - [Gundogdi] his 
numerous metamorphoses: He was first 
Piurash, who murdered Siamek the 
usurper ; then a flea; then a little dog; 
then an Indian maiden named Massouma ; 
then a hee; then a cricket; then a mouse; 
then Abzenderoud the imaum’; then the 
daughter of a rich Indian merchant, the 
Jezdad of Iolcos, the greatest beauty of 
Greece; then a foundling found by a 
dyer in a box; then Dugmé queen of 
Persia; then a young woman named 
Hengu; then an ape; then a midwife'’s 
daughter of Tartary ; then the only son 
of the sultan of Agra; then an Arabian 
physician; then a wild man named Kolao; 
then a slave; then the son of a cadi of 
Erzerim; ther a dervise; then an Indian 

rince; and lastly Fum-Hoam.—T. S8. 

ueulette, Chinese Tales (1723) 


Fum-Hoam, first president of the cere- 
monial academy of Pekin.—Goldsmith 
Citizen of the World (1764). | 


Fumitory (‘‘earth-smoke’'), once 
thought to be beneficial for dimness of 
sight. 

[TAe hermét) furni Legg fealty he 

Fungo’so, a character in Ben Jon- 
son's drama, Every Man in His Humour 
(1598). 

Unlucky as Fungoso tn the play. 
Pope, Assuy on Critictem, 838 (1711), 


Furor (intemperate anger), a mad man 








GABRIELLE. 


life in trying to find him. After many 
wanderings, she went to Philadelphia, 
and became a sister of mercy. The 
plague visited thia city, and in the alma- 
ouse the sister saw an old man stricken 
down by the pestilence. It was Gabriel. 
He tried to whisper her name, but died 
in the attempt. He was buried, and 
Evangeline lies beside him in the grave. 
—Longfellow, Lvanyeline (1549), 

Gabrielle (Charmante), or La Belle 
Gabrielle, daughter of Antoine d'Estrées 
aa of artillery and governor 

the Ile de France). Henri FV. (1590) 

happened to stay for the night at the 
ehiteau de Coeuvres, and fell in love with 
Gabrielle, then 19 years old. To throw 
a veil over his intrigue, he gave her in 
marriage to Damerval de Liancou 
crested ber duchess of Beaufort, anc 
took her to live with him at court. 

The song beginning ‘ Charmante 
Gabrielle . . ." is ascribed to Henri LV. 


Gabri'na, wife of Arge'o baron of 
Servia, tried to seduce Philander, a 
Dutch knight; but Philander fled from 
the house, where he was a guest, She 
then accused him to her husband of a 
wanton insult, and Areo, having appre- 
hended him, confined him in a dungeon. 
One day, Gabrina visited him there, and 
implored him to save her from a knight 
who sought to dishonour her. Philander 
willingly espoused her cause, and slew 
the knight, who proved to be her hus- 
band. Gabrina then told her champion 
that if he refused to marry her, she would 
accuse him of murder to the magistrates. 
On this threat he married her, but ere 
long was killed by poison. Gabrina now 
wandered about the country as an old 
hag, and being fastened on Odori'co, was 
hung by him to the branch of an elm.— 
Ariosto, Orlando Furivsc (1516), 

Gabriolet'ta, governess of Brittany, 
rescued by Am’'adia de Gaul from the 
hands of Halan (‘‘the bravest and 
strongest of all gianta"),— Vasco de 
Lobeira, Amadis de Gaul, iv. 129 (four- 
teenth century), 

Gadshill, a companion of sir John 
Falstaff. This thief receives his name 
from a place called Gadshill, on the 


Kentish road, noturiouws for the many | 


robberies cummitted there, —Shake- 
epeare, 1 Henry JV. act ii, wc. 4 (1597). 
Ga‘heris (4ir), son of Lot (king of 
Orkney) and Morgatise (king Arthur's 
ester).  Leing taken captive by air 
@ 


852 





EE oe © © Oe Ce 


GALAHAD. 


Turquine, he was liberated by sir 
Lanuncelot du Lac. One night, sir Gaheris 
caught his mother in adultery with. sir 
Lamorake, and, holding her by the hair, 
struck off ber head. 

“ Aloe!" aad sir Lamorake, “why beve you slaty your 
own mether? With more right shook) ye have siain ma,* 
a. re condor tinge that alt Gaheria tod alalm 
ae ee ae T. Malory, Jistery 

Gaiour [Djow.'r], em r of China, 
and father of corde (the most beau- 
tiful woman ever seen upon earth”). 
Badoura married Camaral'za the most 
beautiful of men.— Arabian Nig is ('" Ca- 
maralzaman and Badoura”), (See 
GIAOUR.) 


Gal'ahad (Sir), the chaste son of sir 
Launcelot and the fair Elaino (king 
Pelles's daughter, pt. iii. 2), and thus was 
fulfilled a prophecy that she should be- 
come the mother of the noblest knight 
that was ever bom. Queen Guenever 
eays that sir Launcelot ‘“‘came of the 
eighth degree from our Saviour, and sir 
Galahad is of the ninth. . . and,therefore, 
be they the greatest gentlemen of all the 
world” (pte il, 35). His sword was 
that which sir Balin released from the 
maiden's sceabbard (see Bain), and hig 
shield belonged to king Enelake [2ve- 
lake], who received it from Joseph of 
Arimathy. It was a snow-white shield, 
on which Joseph had made oa cross with 
his blood (jt. in. 99), After divers 
adventures, sir Galahad came to Sarraa, 
where he was made king, waa shown the 
gangraal by Joseph of Arimathy, and 
even ‘‘took the Lord's body between hia 
hands," and died. Then suddenly ‘‘a 
great multitude of angels bear his soul 
up to heaven," and “ sithence was never 
no man that could say he had seen the 
pangreal” (pt. ili. 103). 

Sir Galabad was the only knight who 
could sit in the “Sieve Derilous," a peng 
in the Round Table reserved for the 
knight destined to achieve the quest of 
the holy grasl, and no other person 
could sit in it without peril of his life 
(pt. iii, 32). He also drew from the 
iron and marble rock the sword which 
no other knight could release (pt. iii, 33), 
His great achievement was that of the 
holy grasl. Whatever other persons 
may say of this mysterious subject, it 
is quite certain that the Arthurian 
legends mean that sir Galahad saw with 
his bodily eyes and touched with hig 
hands ‘‘the incarnate Saviour,” repro« 








| duced by the consecration of the elements 








qean « a=" = 


GALERE. 


—— 





and Adalin'da.—Ariosto, Orlando Furioso, 


xxi. (1516), 
Galére (2 syl.). Que diable allait-il 
fase dans cette gqalére? Secapin wants to 
from Geéronte (a miserly old hunks) 
2500, to help Leandre, the old man s son, 
out of a j*oney difficulty, So Seapin 
vampe up ¢ cock-and-lull story about 
Leandre bel 7 invited bya Turk on beard 
bis galley, where he was treated to a most 
sumptuow, repast; but when the young 


man was abcut to quit the galley, the | 


Turk tol him he was a prisoner, and 
@emanded £1500 for his ransom within 
two hours’ time. 
this, he exclaims, “Que diable allnit-il 
faire dans cette colére?” and he swears 
he will arrest the Turk for extortion. 
Being shown the impossibility of so doing, 
he again exclaims, '‘ Que disble allait-il 
faire dans cette galbre?" and it flashes 
into his mind that Scapin should give him- 
self up as surcty for the payment of the 
ransom. This, of course, Scapin objects 
to. The old man again exclaims, “ Que 
diable allait-il faire dans cette galere?" 
and commands Scapin to go and tell 
the Turk that £1500 is not to be picked 
off nhedge. Scapin save the Turk does 
not care a straw about that, and insists 
onthe ransom. ‘‘ Mais, que diable allait- 
il faire dans cette galtre?” cries the old 
hunks; and tells Scapin to go and pawn 
certain goods. Scapin replies there is no 
time, the two hours are nearly exhausted. 
**Que diable,” cries the old man again, 
*‘allait-il faire dans cette galere?” and 
when at last he gives the money, he 
repeats the same words, ‘‘ Mais, que 
diabie allait-il faire dans cette ealpee? : 
—Molitre, Les Fourberies de Scapin, ii. 11 
(1671). 

*,° Voque la galére means ‘‘come what 
may,” ‘‘ let what will happen.” 


Gale’sian Wool, the best and finest 
wool, taken from sheep pastured on the 
meadows of Galésus. 

Dale pellitts ovfbus Gales! flumen. 
Horace, Carm., ii. 6, 10. 

Gal’gacus, chief of the Caledonians, 
who resisted Agrivdla with great valour. 
In a.p. 84 he was defeated, and died on 
the field. Tacitus puts into his mouth a 


noble speech, made to his army before 
the battle. 
Amongt hie murthered troups tere enna died. 
Drayton, Polyolbion, vill. (1612). 
oe a a Moorish prinches daughter 
ef Gadaifo king of Tulédo. Her father 
16 


When Geéronte hears | 





GALLO-MANIA. 


built for her « palace on the Tagus, es 
| splendid that ‘‘a palace of Galiana” has 


become a proverb in Spain. 


Galien Restored, a mediaval 
romance of chivalry. Galien was the 
aon of Jaqueline (daughter of Hugh ki 
of Constantinople). His father was count 
Oliver of Vienne. Two fairies interested 
themselves in Jacueline’s infant son: one, 
named Galienne, had the child named after 
her, Galien; and the other insisted that 
he should be called “* Restored,” for thas 
the boy would restore the chivalry of 
Charlemagne.—Author unknown. 


Galile'o Nes vq pal born at Pisa. 
but Lived chiefly in Florence. In 1683 he 
published his work on the Copernican 
system, showing that “‘the earth moved 
and the sun stood still.” For this he was 
denounced by the Inqaisition of Rome, 
and accused of contradicting the Bible. 
At the age of 70 he was obliged to abjure 
his aystem, in order to gain his liberty. 
After pronouncing his abjuration, he said, 


| ina stage whisper, 2 pur si muove (“ It 


does move, though"). ‘This is said to be 
a romance (1lob4—142), 


Galinthia, daughter of Preetus king 
of Argos. She was changed by the Fates 
into a cat, “and in that shape was made by 
Hecate her high priestess. —Antonius Li- 
beralis, Metam., xxix. 

Galis, i= Arthurian romance, meane 
** Wales,” as sir Lamorake de Galis, te, 
sir Lamorake the Welshman. 


Gallegos [Gal’.le.goze}, the es of 


Galicia (once a province of Spain), 


Gal'lia, France. ‘‘ Gauls,” the in- 
habitants of Gallia. 


Gallice’nsa, Erietesees of Gallic my- 
thology, who had power over the winds 
and waves. There were nine of them, all 
Virgins. 

Galligan'tus, the giant who lived 
with Hocus-Pocus the conjuror. When 
Jack the “iant-killer blew the magic 
horn, votn the giant and conjuror were 
overthrown.—Jack the Giant-hiller 


Gallo-Bel'gicus, an annual register 

in Latin, first published in 1598 
It Is believed .. . 
As If ‘twere writ in Galio-Belgicus, 
T. May, The Hote (1635). 

Gallo-ma/‘nia, a forer for every- 
thing French. Generally applied to that 
vile imitation of F fench literature and 
custoins which prevailed in Germany in 
the time of Frederick II. of Prussia. B 





Eee ce 


GAMP. 868 





GANGES. 





Bath and Wells;" but in 1551 John Still 
was a boy not nine years old. The fun 
of this comedy turns on the loss and 
recovery of a needle, with which Gammer 
Gurton was repairing the breeches of her 
man Hodge. The comedy contains the 
famous drinking song, “1 Cannot Eat but 
Little Meat.” 
lar characters, mich as “Tie Sturdy Beggar,” “The 

wa,” The Country Viear,” and “The Shrew,” of 
the dizteanth century. ore dm in coloun taken from the 
Its... . The place ls the open syoare of the village before 
Gummer Garton’ deo; the action, the lom of 
peedie; acd this, followed by the search for it and ite 
Binal ,  internised with oo other thwarting or 
suburdinate luterest—Sir W Scott, Tha Drama. 

Gamp (Sarai), a monthly nurse, 
residing in Kingsgate Street, High 
Holborn. Sarah waa noted for her gouty 
umbrella, and for her perpetual reference 
to an hypothetical Mrs. Harris, whose 
opinions were a confirmation of her own. 

ye waa fond of strong tea and strong 
stimulants. “Don’t ask me,” she said, 
‘““whether I won't take none, or whether 
J will, but leave the bottle on the chimley- 
piece, and let me put my lips to it 
when I am 60 dispoged." When Mrs. 
Prig, “‘her pardner,” stretched out her 


hand to the teapot [filled with gin], Mrs. | 


Gamp stopped the hand‘and said with 
great feeling, ‘‘ No, Betsey! drink fair, 
wotever you do." (See Hargis.)—O. 
Dickens, Martin Churzlewit, xlix. (i943). 

*,” A big, pawky umbrella is ealled a 
Mrs, Gamp, and in France un Robinson, 
from Robinson Crusoe’s umbrella, 

*,* Mra. Gamp and Mrs. Harris have 
Parisian sisters in Mde, Pochet and Mde. 
Gibou, creations of Henri Monnier, 


Gan. (See Gaye.on.) 


Gan'‘abim, the island of thieves, 
Hebrew, ganna), “a thief.”)—Rabelais, 
aniay'ruel, iv. G6 (1549). 

Gan'dalin, earl of the Firm Island, 

and ‘squire of Am‘adis de Gaul, 

Ganialin. t an earl, never qeake fo hile meter but 
ep io bad, ble bead bewling al) tie tine, ond ble bly 
ben! after ths Turkish manoer.—Cervanies, Dea Yuirete, 
L OL & (lao) 

Gander-Cleugh (" folly-cliff"), that 
mysterious place where a person makes 
a goose of himeelf, Jededi’ah Cleish- 
botham, the hypothetical editor of She 
Tales of My Landlord, lived at Gander- 
cleugh.—Sur W. Scott. 

Gan'elon (2 sy/.), count of Mayence, 
the *‘ Judas” of Charlemagne's paladins. 
His castle was built on the Blocksberg, 
the loftiest peak of the Ilartz Mountains. 
Charlemagne was always trusting this 


| base knight, and was as often betrayed by 


him. Although the very business of the 
paladins was the upholding of Chris- 
tianity, sir Ganelon waa constantly in- 
triguing for its overthrow. No doubt, 
jealousy of sir Roland made him a traitor, 
and he basely planned with Marsillns 
(the Moorish king), the attack of Ron- 
ceavallés. ‘The character of sir Ganelon 
was marked with spite, dissimulation, 
and intrigue, but he waa patient, ob- 
stinate, and enduring. He was six feet 
and a half in height, had large glaring 
eyes, and fiery red boir. He eat soli- 
tude, was very taciturn, disbeliaved iH 
the existence of moral good, and has 
become a by-word fora false and faith- 
less friend, Danté has placed him in his 
“Inferno.” (Sometimes called Gan.) 


The most falthies spy since the days of Ganelon —Glr 
W. Soott, The éblet, xxiv. (1290), 


Ganem, “‘the Slave of Love.” The 
hero ard title of one of the Arabian 
Nights tales. Ganem was the son of a 
rich merchant of Damascus, named Abou 
Aibou. On the death of his father he 


| went to Lagdad, to dispose of the mei- 


chandize left, and accidentally saw three 
slaves secretly burying a chest in the 
earth. Curinsity induced him to dis- 
inter the chest, when, lo! it contained a 
beautiful woman, sleeping from the effects 
of a narcotic drug. He took her to his 
lodgings, and discovered that the victim 
was Fetnab, the caliph’s favourite, who 
had been buried alive by order of the 
sultana, ontof jealousy, When the caliph 
heard thereof, he was extremely jealous 
of the young merchant, and ordered him 
to be put to death, but he made good his 
escape in the guise of a waiter, and lay 
concealed till the angry fit of the caliph 
had subsided. When Haroun-al-Raschid 
(the caliph) came to himself, and heard 
the unvarnished facta of the case, he 
pardoned Ganem, gave to him Fetnab for 
a wife, and appointed him to a lucrative 
post about the court. 


Gan'‘esa, goddess of wisdom, im 
Hindé mythology. 
he Cairmdes Loew) bright and Ganem eoblioe 


With joy thelr own pryplibans cline, 
Campbell Pieaiares of Jue, Lb, 


Gan'ges, liny tells us of- fifea 
living on the odour emitted bv the wate 
of this river.—Nul. /liat., xii. 

By Ganges’ hank, an wild Gra itiicns fell, 
a nid tie tele Ure Viel kf "9 the sone] ¢ 
Su final ther boow, Sil) fragrant repos Po 


Hic from the fewer low) wuert Ganges foo, 
(fie, Lebel, lL 








GARETH. 865 


romance, was the youngeet son of Lot 
king of Orkney and Morgawse Arthur's 
{hal}-sister. [iis mother, to deter him 
om entering Arthur's court, said, jest- 
ingly, she would consent to his so doing 
if he concealod his name and went as a 
scullion for twelve months. To this he 
creed, and sir Kay, the king’s steward, 
nicknamed him ** "‘Beaumains,” because 
his bands were unusually large. At the 
end of the year be was knighted, and 
obtained the quest of Lipet’, who craved 
the aid of some knight to liberate her 
sister Lionés, who was held prisoner by 
sir Ironside in Castle Perilous. Linet 
treated sir Gareth with great contumely, 
calling him a washer of dishes and a 
kitchen knoave; but he overthrew the 
five knights and liberated the lady, whom 
he marned, The knights were—first, the 
Hlack Knight of the Black Lands or sir 
Pere’ad (2 sy/.), the Green Knight or sir 
Pertolope, the Red Knight ur sir Peri- 
mo'oéa, the Blue Knight or sir Persaunt 
of India (four brothers), and lastly the 
Red Koight of the Red Lands or sir lron- 
side,—Sir T. Malory, History of Prince 
ArtAur, i, 120-153 (1470). . 
af he According to Tennyson, sir Gareth 
was '‘ the last and tallest son of Lot kin 
of Orkney and of Hellicent hia wife. 
He served as kitchen knave in king 
Arthur's hall a twelvemonth and a day, 
and was nicknamed ‘‘ Fair-handsa” (fea 
TES | 
wos ‘nighted, and obtained leave to 
accompany Lynette to the liberation of 
her sister Lvonora, who was held captive 
in Castle Perilous by a knight called 
Death or Mors. The passages to the 
castic were kept by four brothers, called 
by Tennyson, Morning Star or Phoa’- 
phorus, Noonday Sun or Meridies, Even- 
mg Staror llespérus, and Night or Nox, 
all of whom he overthrew. At length 
l‘eath leapt from the cleft skull of Night, 
and praved the knight not to kill him, 
seeing that what be did his brothers had 
noalehbimdo, At starting, Lwoette treated 
Gareth will great contumely, Lut softened 
to hom mcer- and more after each victory, 
and at last marned him. 
Tie thet told the tale in okden thoes 
Baye that dr Gareih wedded Lyonore; 
Bul be that told it loler maps Lynette. 
Tenoyeon, /dgily af fhe King (** Gareth aml Lpoetio™) 
(fareth and Linet’ ia in reality an alle- 
gory, a sort of bunyan's /‘ilyrim's Pro- 
yresa, deacribing the warfare of a Christian 
trem birth to hia entrance into glory. 
The " Hride” lived in Castle Perilous, 
aud was named Livoes; Linet represents 


At the end of twelve months he | 


GARGANTUA. 


the “carnal world,” which, like the im 
habitants of the City of Destruction, jest 
and jeer at every the Christian does. 
Sir Gareth fought with four knights, 
keepers of the roads “to Zion” or 
Perilous, viz., Night, Dawn, Midday 
and Evening, meaning the temptations of 
the four ages of man. Having conquered 
in al) these, he had to encounter the last 
enemy, which is death, and then the bride 
was won—the bride who lived in Castle 
Perilous or Mount Zion. 

*,* Tenn in his version of this 
beautiful allegory, has fallen into several 
erave errors, the worst of which is his 
making Gareth marry Linet instead of 
the true bride. This is like landing his 
Pilgrim in the City om Destruction, after 
having finished hte ourney and passed 
the flood. Gareth’s brother was wetaed 
to the world (#.¢. Linet), but Gareth him- 
self was married to the ‘true Bride,” 
who dwelt in Castle Perilous. Another 
rave error is making Death crave of 

jareth not to kill him, ae what he did he 
was compelled to do by his elder brothers. 
I must confess that this to me is quite 





past understanding. — See Nutes and 
Queries, January 1 ” February 16, March 
16, 1878. 


Gar'gamelle (8 syl.), wife of Gran- 
gousier and daughter of the Parpaillons, 
(nm the day that she gave birth to Gar- 
gantus, she ate 16 qrs. 2 bush. 3 pecks 
and a pipkin of dirt, the mere remains 
left in the tripe which she had for supper, 
although the tripe had been cleaned with 
the utinest care-—Rabelais, Garyantua, i. 
4 (1503). 

*,” Gargamelle is an allegorical skit 
on the extravagance of queens, and the 
dirt is their pin-money. 


Gargan’tua, son of Grangousier and 
Gargcamelle. Jt needed 17,913 cows to 
supply the babe with milk. Like Gara- 
gantua (9.0.), he ate in his salad lettuces 
as big as walnut trees, in which were 
lurking eix pilgrims from Sebastian. 
Ile founded and endowed the abbe of 
Theleme (2 syl.), in remembrance of his 
victory over Picrochole (3 sy/.).—Rabe- 
lnis, Gurpantua, i. 7 (1533). 

,° (of course, Gargantua is an alle- 
gorical skit on the allowance accorded to 
princes for their maintenance. 

Lrurgantua’s Afure. This mare was 
os big os six elephants, and had feet 
with fingers. On one occasion, going hd 
svlionl, Cie ** bov ” hung the bells of 
Lame de Paris on his mare's necks, a 





GASHFORD. 


867 


GAUL, 





abashed, the noble 1 prisonee 
King's Beach.—8ir The Governeur (1581). 
Gashford, secretary to lord Geo 
A detestable, cruel sneak, who 
dupes his half-mad master, and leads 
him to imagine he is upholding a noble 
in plotting against the lish 


bum ‘The Warren, 
resided. Gashford commits suicide.—C. 
Dickens, Barnaby Rudye (1841). 


Gaspar or Caspar (‘‘ the white one”), 
one of the three Mayi or kings of Cologne. 
His offering to the infant Jesus was 

mcense, in token of divinity. 

*,* The other two were Melchior 
(‘Sking of light”), who offered gold, 
symbolical of royalty; and Balthazar 
(‘lord of treasures”), who offered myrrh, 
to denote that Christ would dic. op- 
stock, in his Afcssiah, makes the number 
of the Magi siz, not one of which names 
agrees with those of Cologne Cathedral. 


Gaspard, the steward of count De 
Valmont, in whose service he had been 
for twenty years, and to whom he was 
most devotedly attached.—W. Dimond, 
The Foundling of the Forest. 


Gas’pero, secretary of state, in the 
drama called Zhe Laws of Candy, by 
Beaumont and Fletcher (1647). 


Gate of France (/ron), Longwy, a 
strony military position. 

Gute of Italy, that part of the valley 
of the Adigé which is in the vicinity of 
Trent and Koverédo. It is a narrow 
gorge between two mountain ridges. 


Gate of Tears (Babelmanded), the 
passage into the Red Sea. 


Like some Ill-destined bark that steers 
In s‘lence through the Gate of Tears. 
Moore, Lulia Kovkts (‘* The Fire- Worshippers,” 1817). 
Gates (/ron) or Demir Kara, a cele- 
trated pass of the Teuthras, through 
which all caravans between Smyrna and 
Brusa must needs pass. 


Gates of Cilicia (pyle Citx¢@), a 


defile connecting Cappadocia and Cilicia, 
Now called the Pass of Gdlek Béghds. 
tes of Syria (pyla Syria), a 
Beilan . Near this was the 
battle-field of Issus. “ 

Gates of the Caspian (pyle Cas- 
pia), @ rent in the high mountain-wall 
south of the Caspian, in the neighbour- 
hood of the modern Persian capi 


(The) erty the Occult Sciences 
, forty, or as some say forty-ei 
books on magic, ip Arabic. The Brat 
twelve teach the art of sorcery and 
enchantment, the thirteenth teaches how 
to disenchant and restore bodies to their 
native shapes again. A complete set 
was always kept in the Dom-Daniel or 
school for magic in Tunis.— inuation 
of the Arabian Nights (‘‘ History of Man’- 
graby"). 

Gath’era] (Old), steward to the duke 
of Buckingham.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril 
of the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Gath’erill (Old), bailiff to sir Geof- 
frey Peveril of the Peak.—Sir W. Scott, 
Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles 11.). 


Gauden'tio di Lucca, the hero 
and title of a romance by Simon Bering- 
ton. He makesa journey to Mezzoramia, 
an imaginary country in the interior of 
Africa. 

Gau'difer, «a champion in the 
romance of Alexander. 


Gaudio’sa (Lady), wife of Pelayo; 
a wise and faith counsellor, high- 
minded, brave in danger, and a real help- 
mate.—Southey, Roderick, Last of 
Goths (1814). 


Gaudissart, the droll French bag- 


man. 


Gaul, son of Morni of Strumon. He 
was betrothed to Oith’ona daughter of 
Nuiath, but before the day of marriage he 
was called away by Fingal to attend him 
on an expedition against the Britons. 
At the same time Nudth was at war, and 
sent for his son Lathmon; so Oithona 
was left unprotected in her home. Dun- 
rommath lord of Uthal (or Cuthal 
seized this opportunity to carry her off, 
and concealed her in a cave in the desert 
island of Trom’athon. When Gaul ro 
turned to claim his betrothed, he found 
she was gone, and was told by a visinn 
in the night where she washidden. Next 
day, with three followers, Gaul went to 
Tromatbon, and the ravisher coming 








GAZBAN, 869 





GELLATLY. 





himself to the lady, by whom he is 
“as Burgoyne, The Heiress 
1). 


Gas’ban, the black slave of the old 
Gre-worshipper, employed to sacrifice the 
Mussulmans to be offered on the ‘‘ moun- 
tain of fire.” — ian Nights ‘‘‘ Amgiad 
and Adsad”). 


Gazette (Sr Gregory), a man who 
delights in news, without having the 
slightest comprehension of politics.— 
Samuel Foote, The Aniyhts. 


Gaz’nivides (3 syl.), a Tersian 
dynasty, which gave four kings and 
lasted fifty years. It was founded by 
Mahmoud Gazni (999-1049). 


Ge’ber, an Arabian alchemist, born 
at Thous, in Persia (eighth century). He 
wrote several treatises on the “art of 
making gold,” in the usual mystical 
jargon of the period ; and hence our word 
° vibberish (‘* senseless jargon”). 

This art the Arabian Geber taught . . 
The E:ixir of Perpetual Youth. 
Longfellow, The Golden Legend. 

Geddes (Joshua), the quaker. 

Rachel Geddes, sister of Joshua. 

Philip Geddes, grandfather of Joshua 
and Rachel Geddes.—Sir W. Scott, 2ed- 
gauntlet (time, George III.). 


Gehen’na, the place of everlasting 
torment. Strictly speaking, it means the 
Valley of Hinnom (Ge L/innom), where 
sacrifices to Moloch were offered, and 
where refuse of all sorts was subsequently 
cast, for the consumption of which fires 
were kept constantly burning. There 
was also a sort of aqua tofana, called 
daquor Gehenna. 

Holy water it may be to many, 


But to me the veriest liquur Gehennam. 
Longfellow, The Golden Legend. 


And black Gehenna called. the type of hell. 
Milton, Puradise Lost, 1. 405 (1665). 

Geierstein ([G?.er.stine], Arnold 
count of. 

Coun: Albert of Geierstein, brother of 
Arnold Yiederman, disguised (1) as the 
black priest of St. Paul's; (2) as pre- 
sident of the secret tribunal ; (3) as monk 
at Mont St. Victoire. 

Anne of Gerstein, called ‘The Maiden 
of the Mist,” daughter of count Albert, 
and baroness of Amheim. 

Count Heinrich of Ceierstem, grand- 
father of count Arnold. 

Count Williewald of Geierstein, father 
of count Armoid.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Geislaer (Feterkin) one of the in- 
surgents at Litge [ Le.aje].—Sir W. 
we Quentin Durward (time, Edward 


Geith (George), a model of untiring in- 
dustry, perseverance, and moral co 
Undaunted by difficulties, he pursued hi 
onward way, and worked as long as 
breath was left him.—Mrs. T 
[Riddell], George Geith. 


Gelert, Llewellyn's favourite hound. 
One day, Llewellyn returned from hunt- 
ing, when Gélert met him sineared with; 
gore. The chieftain felt alarmed, and 
instantly went to look for his baby son. 
He found the cradle overturned, and all 
around was sprinkled with gore and blood. 
He called his child, but no voice replied, 
and thinking the hound had eaten it, he 
stabbed the animal to the heart. ) 
tumult awoke the baby boy, and on search- 
ing more carefully, a huge wolf was found 


under the bed, quite dead. Gélert had 
slain the wolf and saved the child, 
And now a t tomb they raisa, 


With co-tly sculpture decked ; 
And marbles, storied with bis praisa, 
Poor Gelert's bunes protect. 

Hoa. W. K. Spencer, Beth-Gelert (‘* Gélert’s Grave”). 

*,* This tale, with a slight difference, 
is common to all parts of the world. It 
is told in the Gesta Rumanorum of 
Follicilus, a knight, but the wolf is a 
‘‘ serpent,” and Folliculus, in repentance, 
makes a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. 
In the Sanskrit version, given in the 
Pantschatantra (a.p. 640), the tale is 
told of the brahmin Devasaman, an 
‘‘ichneumon” and ‘black snake” taking 
the places of the dog and the wolf. In 
the Arabic version by Nasr-Allah (twelfth 
century), a ‘‘ weasel” is substituted for 
the doz; in the Mongolian Ulwerun a 
“‘nolecat;” in the Persian Sind. imch, 
a ‘‘cat;” and in the HHitopadesa (iv. 8), 
an ‘‘otter.” Im the Chinese Forest of 
Pearls from che Gurden of the Law, the 
doy is an ‘ichneumon," as in the Indian 
Version (A.D, 608), In Sandabar, and 
also in the Hebrew version, the tale is 
told of a dog. A similar tale is told of 
czar Piras of Russia ; and another occurs 
in the Seven Wise Masters, 


Gel’/latly (Durie), idiot servant o1 
the baron of Bradwardine (3 syl.). 
Old Junet Gellat/y, the idiot’s mother. 


—Sir W. Scott, Wuverley (time, George 


II.). 
$s In some editions the word is spelt 
‘‘ Gellatley.” 3 
B 











Gemini, Mrs. Browning makes Eve 
view in the constellation Gemini a 
symbol of the increase of the human race, 
and she loved to gaze on it.—E. B. 
Browning, A Drama of Exile (1850). 

Geneu'ra. (See Grvevea.) 

*.* Queen Guinever or Guenever is 
sometimes called “Geneura,” or “ Ge- 


nevra." 
Gene'va Bull ( The Stephen 
Marshall, a Calvinistic ‘. 
Geneviiéve (5t.), the patron saint of 


Paris, born at Nanterre, She was a 
shepbersom, but went to Paris when her 
parents 
Attila'’s invasion (A.p. 451). She tol 
the citizens that God would spare the 
city, and “‘her prediction came true.” 
At another time, she procured food for the 
Parisians suffering from famine. At her 
request, Clovis built the church of St. 
Pierre et St. Pal, afterwards called 
Bite. Genevieve. Her day is January 3. 
Her relics are deposited in the Panthdon 
now called by her name (419-512). 


Genii or Ginn, an intermediate race 
between angela and men. They ruled on 
earth before the creation of Adam.— 
D'Herbelot, Biblioth?ywe Orientale, 35T 
(1697). Also spelt Djinn and Jing. 

*»* Solomon is supposed to preside 
over r the whole race of genii, This seems 
to have arisen from a mere confusion of 
words of somewhat similar sound. The 
chief of the genii was called a suley- 


man, which got corrupted into a proper — 


ane. 


Genius and Common Sense, 
T. Moore says that Common Sense and 
Genius once went out together on a 
ramble by moonlight. Common Sense 
went prosing on his way, arrived home 
in good time, and went to bed; but 
Genius, While gazing at the stars, stum- 

into a river, | and died. 

*." This story is told of Thalés the 
philosopher by Plato. Chaucer has also 
ao allusion thereto in his Miller's Tale, 

a totais eh eee 
Le was lw a arid pil (fall, 
Ghauer, Cumerbury Poles, My, ete. (1S 

Genna’'ro, the natural son of Lucrezia 
di Borgia (daughter of pope Alexander 


VI.) before her marriage with Alfonso | ty. 


duke of Ferra'ra. Ile wos brought up 
by a Neapolitan fisherman, In early 
manhood he went to Venice, heard of 
the scandalous croelty of Lucrezia, and, 


ED 


GEMINI. Beh 





died, and was there ma 8 De | 





GEOFFBEY. 


with the heedlesa ulance of 
mutilated the duke’ _Pitalince by atrike 
ing out the 1% ig converting Bo 
into Orgia ( ). Lucrezia dem 
vengeance, Pn [ecpage was condemned 
to death by poison, When 
discovered that the offender was her own 
son, she gave him an antidote to the 
poison, set him free. Not long after 
this, at o exis given by Negro‘ni, 
Luerezia revealed herself to Gennaro aa 
his mother, and both expired of poison in 
the banquet hall.—Donizetti, di 
Borwyia (1834), 


pq Gomnil (ap ), & veteran in tho 





sir Sir W. 
Scott, The Betroted (te (time, entry Il.). 
Genove'fa, wife of Si count 


palatine of Brabant. ing sus 
pected of infidelity, she was driven ona 
the forest of Ardennes, where she 
birth to a son, who was suckled 
white doe. After a time, Siefried is 
covered hia error, and both mother and 


| child were restored to their proper home. 
| —German Po, 


ar Stories, 

Tieck and Miller have popularized the 
tradition, and Kaupach has made it the 
subject of o drama. 


Gentle Shepherd (The Gongs 
Grenville, In oa of his bea, 
exclaimed in the Honse, “Tell me 
pet when Pitt hummed the line of 

popular song, ‘Gentle Shepherd, tell 
ares ere!" and the Honse was convulsed 
with laughter (1712-1770), 


Gentle Shepherd (The), the = and 


chief character of Allan a pas 
toral (1724), 

Gentleman of Euro The First), 
George 1V. (1762, BB ea) 


Te waa the “* first setlliiates In Europe ~ to whom bigs 

rhage aeabeg ton ttet seep erdleny —— nil tok 
Glation ; ao it monet ee 

doc "une her virlen. What a culls a 

racter mkt thy 

that soguat soversign was invested with the ‘Ue al 

Premicr Genii/homme a ali Eureyo |! — Thackaray, 


| Kamdsy Pode (18, 


Gentleman of MHurope (First 
eating if (First), Lows 

Gentleman Smith, William Smith, 
actor, noted for his gentlemanly deport- 
ment on the stage (1730-1790), 


A ery yar of York.—Si1 
» Scott, dhe Talisman (time, Richard 


Geoffrey, the old ostler of John M 
(innkeeper at Kirchhoff),—Sir W. | 


| Anne of Geierstem (time, Edward IV). 








GEORGE. . 878 





GERALDINE. 





Mary Darby, at the age of 15, married 
Mr. Robinson, who lived a few months on 
credit, ond was then imprisoned for 
debt. Mra. Robinson sought a livelihood 
on the stage, and George 1V., then prince 
of Wales and a were lad, saw her os 
** Perdita,” fell in love with her, cor- 
responded with her under the assumed 
name of ‘‘ Florizel,” and gave her a bond 
for £20,000, suleequently cancelled for 
an annuity of £500 (1758-1800), 

*,* George 1V. was born in 1762, and 
was only 16 in 1778, when he fell in love 
with Mra. Robinson, The young prince 
suddenly abandoned her, and after two 
other love affairs, privately married, at 
Carlton House (in 1785), Mra. Fitzherbert, 
a lady of ypood family, and a widow, 
seven years hia senior. The woarriage 
being contrary to the law, he married the 

mncess Caroline of Hranswick, in 1795; 

uot still retained his conwection with 
Mra. Fitzherbert, and added o new fa- 
vourite, the countess of Jersey. 


George [or Lavar], a friend of | 


Horace de Brienne (2 syl.). Having 
committed forzery, Carlos (alias marquis 
d’Antas), being cognizant of it, had bim 
in his power; but Oarita (a/ias Martha) 
obtained the document, and returned it to 
George.—F. Stirling, Orphan of the Frozen 
dea (1856), 


George-a-Green, the pinner or 
pound-keeper of Wakefield, one of the 
chosen favourites of Robin Hood, 

Ven! Wakefield perummaenum, 

UM quart Georgium (Greenum, 

Hon liwerk, eel in lignan, 

Fitum roperi Georgii sdgnum, 

Uhl alleen betel form, 

Dune: Georgie furtki erun. 

Oranken Larnaty (Lid), 

Oore in Watefeld town, so pleasant, 
Soaught | Geormrea-Green, the pont § 
Pisin him tet, bot splerl instead, alr, 
06 o sign, “ The George's Head,” oir 5 
Vallant groan wlth ale like nectar, 
Wliat quel | for Genin or Hector? 

*,* Robert Green bas a drama entitled 
Georje-a-(Green, the Pinner of Wakefield 
(15si!). 


George Street (Strand, London), 
one of n serics of streets named after the 
second duke of Buckingham. The series 
consivts of George Street, Villiers Street, 
Dake Street, and BuckingLam Street. 


Georgian Women (Tic). Allah, 


wishing to atock his celestial harem, com- | 


Missioned an immum to Belect for him 
forty of the loveliest women he could 
God. The imaum journeyed into Frankis- 
fan, and from the country of the Ingliz 





carried off the king’s daughter. From 


| Gernnany he selected other maidens; but 


when he arrived at Gori (north-west of 
Tiflis) he fell in love with one of the bean- 
ties, and tarried there. Allah punished 
him by death, but the maidens remained 
in Gori, and became the mothers of the 
most benutiful mee of mortals in the 


whole earth.— A Levend, 


Georgina [Vesey], daughter of sir 
John Vesey. Pretty, but vain and frivo- 
lows. She loved, as much as her heart 
was susceptible of such a ion, sir 
Frederick Blount, but wavered between 
her liking and the policy of marrying 
Alfred Evelyn, a man of great wealth. 
When she thought the property of Evelyn 
Was insecure, ahe at once gave her hand 
to sir Frederick.—Lord L. Bulwer Lytton, 
Money (1840). 

Geraint’ ( Sir), of Devon, one of the 
knights of the Round Table. He was 
married to E'nid, only child of Yn'iol. 
Fearing lest Enid should be tainted by 
the queen, sir Geraint left the court, and 
retired to Devon, Half Lg and 
half waking, he overheard part of Enid's 
words, and fancying her to be unfaithful 
to him, treated her for a time with great 
harshness ; but Enid nursed him when he 
was wounded with sach wifely tenderness 
that he could no longer doubt her fealty, 
and a complete undersianding being esta 
lished, “they crowned a happy life with 
mn fair death."—Tennyson, Jdyiis of the 
Kiny (“ Geraint and Enid"), 

Ger'aldin (Lord), son of the ear! of 
Glenallan. Tle appears first as William 
Lovell, and afterwards as major Neville, 
He marries Isabella Wardour (daughter 
of sir Arthur Wardour). 

Sir Aymer de Geralitin, an ancestor of 
lord Geraldin.—Sir W. Scott, The An- 
tiquary (time, George IIT.). 


Ger’aldine (5 s,/.), a young. man 
who comes home from his travels to find 
his playfellow (that should have been his 
wife) married to old Wincott, who receives 
him hospitably as a friend of hia father’s, 
takes delight in hearing tales of his 
travels, and treats him most kindly, 
Geraldine and the wife motually agree 
not in any wise to wrong so noble and 
confiding an old gentleman.—lohn He 
wood, The English Traveller (1576-1045), 


Geraldine (Lady), an orphan, the ward 
of her uncle count de Valmont, and the 
betrothed of Florian (‘‘the foundling of 
the forest,” and the adopted son of the 





GERONTE. 


forgot,” says Geéronte, and he pays the 
money (act ii. 11).—Moliétre, Les Puur- 
beries de Scapin (1671). 

In the English version, called Zhe 
Cheats of Scapin, by Utway, Géronte 
is called Gripe," Hyacinthe is called 
“Clara,” Léandre is Anglicized into 





** Leander,” and the sum of money bor- | 


rowed is £20), 


Geronte (2 syl.), the father of Lucinde 
(2 sy) e wanted his danghter to 
mury Horace, but as she loved Leandre, 
in order to avoid a marriage she detested 
she pretended to have lost the power of 
articulate speech, and only answered, 
** Han, hi, hon!” “ Han, hi, hon, han!" 
Sganarelle, “le mrdecin malgré lui,” 
seeing that this jarcon was put on, and 
ascertaining that Leandre was her lover, 
introduced him as an apothecary, and che 
young man soon effected a perfect cure 
with “pills matrimoniac."—Moliere, Le 
Hédecin Maliyjré Lisi (Lue). 


Gerrard, king of the beggara, dis- 

ised under the namic of Clause. He is 
he father of Florez the rich merchant of 
Bruges.—Beauciont and Fletcher, Dhe 
&eqyars’ Bus|\ (1022), 


Ger’trude (2 sy/.), Tlamlet's mother, 
On the death of ber husband, who was 
king of Denmark, she marned Claudius, 
the late king's brother, Gertrude was 
accessory to the murder of ber first 
husband, and Claudius was principal. 
Clandius prepared poisoned wine, which 


he intended for Hamlet; but the qneen, | 


not knowing it was poisoned, drank it 
and died. Hamlet, seeing his mother 
fall dead, rushed on the king and killed 
him.—Shakespeare. Mumilvt (1596). 

*,* In the Jiistorie of Hambleti, Ger- 
trade is called ** (reruth.” 


Gertrude, daughter of Albert patriarch 
of Wy’oming. One day, an Indian 
brought to Albert a lad (nine years old) 
pamed Hlenry Waldegrave (2 sy/.), and 
told the patriarch he had promised the 
boy’s mother, at her death, to place her 
son under his care. The lad remained at 
Wyoming for three years, and was then 
sent to his fricnds. When grown to man- 
hood, Henry Waldermve returned to 
Wyoming, and married Gertrude; but 
three months afterwards, Iirandt, at the 
bead of a mixed army of [ritish and 
Indians, atiacked the settlement, and both 
Albert and Gertrude were shot. Teury 
Waldegrave then ees the army of 
Wachington, which waa fighting for 








GESSLER, 
American independence.—Campbell, Gers 
trude of Wyoming (1809). . 

*,* Campbell accents Wyoming on the 
first syllable, but it is more «sual tu throw 








the accent on the second. 


Gerun'dio (fray), te. Friar Gerund, 
the hero and title of a Spanish romance, 
by the jesuit De l'Isla. It is a satire on 
the absurdities and bad taste of the 
popular preachers of the time (1758), 


Ge'ryon’s Sons, the Spaniards ; #0 
called from Geryon, an ancient king of 
Spain, whose oxen were driven off by 
Her'culés, This task was one of tha 
hero's ‘“‘twelve labours.” Milton uses 
the expression in Paradise Lost, xi, 410 
(1665). 


Geryon'eo, s human monster with 
three bodies. He waa of the race of 
giants, being the son of Geryon, the 
tyrant who gave all strangers ‘‘as food to 
his kine, the fairest and the flercest kine 
alive." Geryoneo promised to take the 
young widow Helgé (2 sy/.) under his 
protection; but it was like the wolf pro- 
tecting the lamb, for “he gave her 
chudren to adrendful inonster to devour.” 
In her despair, she applied to king Arthur 
for help, and the British king, espousing 
her cause, 600n sent Geryoneo “down to 
the house of dole."—Spenser, Fuéry 
Queen, v. 10, 11 (1596), 

*,* “Gervoneo™ is the house of Aus- 
trian, and Philip of Spain io particular. 
** King Arthur" is England, and the earl 
of Leicester in particolar. The ‘ Widow 
Belge” ia the Netherlands; and the mon- 
ster that devoured her children the in- 
quisition, introduced by the duke of Alva. 
““Geryoneo ” had three bodies, for Philip 
ruled over three kingdoms—Spain, Ger- 
many, and the Netherlands. The earl 
of Leicester, sent in 1585 to the aid of 
the Netherlands, broke off the yoke of 
Philip. 


(Jes'mmas, the impenitent thief cruci- 
fied with our Lord. In the apocryphal 
Gospel of Nicodemus, he is called Gestas. 
The penitent thief was Dismas, Dysmas, 
Demas, or Dumacus. 

Three bedles on three eros hang explne + 

Diam ad Gear Gd the Power Divine, 

Dis othe heaven, Ge ble rn cone thom, 


The Mid-one seeks oor ransom and salvation, 
Trosaatio of a Latin Chores, 


Gessler (Albrecht), the brotal and 
tyrannical governor of Switzerland, ap- 
pointed by Austria over the three forest 
cantons. When the people rose in re 

4 





ow ——— —— 


GIANTS OF MYTHOLOGY, ETC. 877 GIANTS OF MYTHOLOUY, ETV. 





Awr.zos, 60 cubits (85 feet) in height. 
— Plutarch. 

Arogs (2 syl.), one of the Cyclops.— 
Greek Fable. 


ASCAPART, a giant 80 feet high, and 
with 12 inches between his eyes. Slain 
by sir Bevis of Scuthampton.— Britisa 

e. 

Artzas, the giant of the Aths Moun- 
tains, who carries the world on his back. 
A beok of maps is called an “atlas” 
from this giant.—Greek Fable. 

Baran, ‘bravest and strongest of the 
giant race.”— Amddis of Gaul. 

Beie, famous for his three lea 
which gave names to the places ed 
Wanli Burstall, and legrave.— 
British Fable. 

Bevis'rvs, the giant from whom 
Cornwall derived ita name “ Bellerium.” 
—British Fable. 

B.iuxpersore (3 syl.), the giant who 
was drowned because Jack scuttled his 
boat.—Jack the Giant-khiller. 

Bararg’os (4 syl.), a giant with a 
hundred hands. One of the Titans.— 
Greek Fable. 

BrorvinGcNnaG, a country of giants, to 
whom an ordinary-sized man was ‘not 
half so big as the round little worm 
pricked from the lazy fingers of a maid.” 
—Swift, Gulliver's Trureis. 

Brontes (2 sy/.), one of the Cyclops. 
—Greek Fable. 

BuBLona, a giant mentioned in the 
romance of Sir 7ryamvur. 

Cacvs, of mount Aventine, who dragged 
the oxen of Herculés into his cave tail 
foremost.— Greek Fuble. 

Car.1G’ORANT, the Egyptian giant, who 
entrapped travellers with an invisible net. 
—Aniosto, 

CARACULIAMRO, the giant that don 
Quixote intended should kneel at the foot 
of Dulcin’ea.—Cervantes, Don Quirote. 

Cereus or Crus, son of Heaven and 
Earth. He married Phiebé, and was the 
father of Latona.— Greek Fuble. 

CHaLRRoTH, the stem of all the giant 
race.—Rabelais, Pantajruel, 

CHRISTOPHERUS or ST, CHRISTOPHER, 
tne giant who carned Christ across a 
ford, and was weli-nizh borne down with 
the ‘‘child'’s” ever-increasing weight.— 
Christian Legend. 

Crytios, one of the giants who made 
war upon the gods. Vulcan killed him 
with a red-hot iron mace.—Greek Fable. 

Cotrranp, the Danish giant slain by 
Guy of Warwick.—Bnitish Fable. 

CorFLAmMBo, a giant who was always 





attended by a dwarf.—Spenser, Fairy 


iv. 8. 

Cormoran’, the Cornish giant who fell 
into a pit twenty feet deep, dug by Jack 
and filmed over with a thin layer of grass 
and gravel.—Jack the Giant-hiller. 

CoRMORANT, a giant discomfited by 
sir Brian.—Spenser, Faéry vi. 4. 

Coutin, the British giant pursued by 
Debon, and killed b falling into a deep 
chasm.— British Fable. 

Crc Lops, giants with onlv one e 
and that in the middle of the forehead, 
They lived in Sicily, and were black- 
smiths.— Greek Fable. 

Despair, of Doubting Castle, who 
found Christian and Hopeful asleep on 
his grounds, and thrust them into @ 
dungeon. He evilly entreated them, bat 
they made their escape by the key “Pro- 
mise.”—Bunyan, Piyrim’s Progress, i. 

Donvascn, a giant contemporary with 
Seth. ‘' There were giants in the earth 
in those days.”—Oriental Fable. 

ENCEL’avos, “most powerful of the 

iant race.” erwhelmed under mount 
tna.—Greek Fable. 

EruIactes (4 syl.), a giant who 
nine inches every month.—Greek Fuble. 

Erix, son of Goliah [sic] and grandson 
of Atlas. He invented legerdemain.— 
Duchat, Gurres de Rabelais (1711). 

Ev’kYTos, one of the giants that made 
war with the gods. Bacchus killed him 
with his thyrsus.— Greek Fable. 

FERRACUTE, a giant 36 feet in height, 
with the strength of forty men.— 7urpin's 
Chronicle. 

FERRAGUS, a Portuguese giant.— Va. 
lentine and Orson. 

Fitrapras, of Alexandria, ‘the 
greatest giant that ever walked the 
earth.”— Hedieval Romance. 

Fiox, son of Comnal, an enormous 
giant, who could place his fect on two 
mountains, and then steop and dri 
from a stream in the valley between.— 
Gaelic Legend, 

FiokGwyn, the gigantic father of 
Frigga.— Scandinavian Mythology. 

Fracassus, father of Ferrigus, and 
son of Morganté, 


Primus erat quidam Fracaems prole gigantia, 
Cujus stirps olim Morganto venit ab ilo, 
bacchioconem campane ferre solebat, 
vo mille hominum colpos fracaseet in ane. 
eriln Cocaius (i.e. Théophile Folenso), Hésteére 
Meacarontique 


GannarRa, father of Goliah [sic] of 
Secondille, and inventor of the custom 


of drinking healths.—Duchat, Gueres ds 
Rabelais (1711). 








Onr’ox, a giant hunter, noted for his 
beauty. He was slain by Diana, and 
made a constellation.— Greek Fuble. 

Oros, a giant, brother of Ephialtés. 
They both grey nine inchea every month. 
According to liny, be he was 46 cubits (66 

feet) in oe tnt. Greek 

Pa.vas, one of the giants called Titans. 
Minerva flayed him, and used his skin for 
armour; hence she was called Pallas 
Minerva.— Greet Fuble. f Gargantua, and 

ANTAG RURL, 600 0 tua, 
last of the race of giants. 

Pocrso'rns (4 syi.), one of the giants 
who fought against nst the The sea- 
god pursued him to the island of “land 
and, away 8 
threw it on him and » 
the mass.—Greek 

PoLyPur’os, ‘ine of the Cyclops. 
His skeleton was found at Trapa’ni, in 
Sicily, in the fourteenth century, by 
which it is calculated that his height was 
800 feet.— Greek Fadle. 

PoRPHYR’ ON, one of the giants who 
wade war with th He hurled the 
sland of Delos agains Zeus ; but Zeus, 
with the aid of ulés, overcame him. 
— Greek F. 

Prascuos, ope of the Cyclops.— 
Greek F. 

Ritno, othe giant who commanded 
King Arth ur to send his beard to complete 

the lining of a robe.—Arthurian Romance. 

SLar-Goop, & ant slain by Great- 


heart.—Bunyan, rogress, ii. 
STEE ores ves (3 syl. 5 ie vot the ‘the Cyclops. 


— Gree 

Tantanon” ‘the Cyclops of Basque 

legendary lore. 

wxcrosocil’us, a king, whose remains 
were discovered in 1613, near the river 
Rhone. His tomb was 80 feet long.— 
Mazurier, fistoire Véritable du Géant 
Teutobochus (1618). 

Taos, one of the giants who made 
war with the gods. Ile was killed by the 
Parce.—Hesiod, Theoyony. 

TITANS, a race of giants. —Greek Fable. 

Tit’yoe, a giant whose body covered 
nine acres of land. He tried to defile 
Latina, but Apollo cast him into Tar- 
tarus, where a vulture fed on his liver, 
whiea grew again as fast as it was de- 
voured.—Greek Fable. 

Tyrrnuaus, a giant with a hundred 
heads, fearful eyes, and most terrible 
voice. He was the father of the Harpies. 
Z: us [Jupiter] killed him with a thander- 
bolt, and he lies buried under mount 


ktna.—Hesiod, Theoyony. 


GIANTS OF MYTHOLOGY, ETC. 879 





GIANTS IN REAL LIFE. 


TYPHON, son of Typheas, a giant with 
ahundred heads. He was so tall that he 
touched heaven with ‘Genoa, His eff- 
spring were 

and the hvdra of Lerné. "We se’ ties ariel 
aader mount Etna.—Homer, Hymns. 

WIDENOSTRILS, & huge giant, who lived 
on windmills, and died from a 
lamp of fresh butter.—Rabelais, 





mb ot Duchet, bk. i, 1 of his vores de 


Anak, father of the Anakim. The 
Hebrew spies said hey themselves were 
mere grasshoppers 1, ede Le a0, 
gianta.—Josh. x xv. are Judges i, 20 


ANAK, 7 feet 8 inches at the age of 26. 
Exhibited in London, 162°. Toy , 
Ramonchamp, in the Vosges (1! ’ 
1840. His real name was Jeepk Brice. 

Axproy’iccs II., 10 feet. Grandson 
of Alexius Comnénus, Nicetas asserts 
that he had seen him. 


stan’s Churchyard. 

Bates (Captain), 7 feet 11 inches; of 

Kentacky. | Howe) 7 in tt inches, aad 
LACKER (/ienry), 7 feet 

most symmetrical. Bom at Cuckfield, 

Sussex, in 1724. Generally called ‘‘ The 

British Giant.” 

Brap.ey, 7 feet 8 inches at desth. 
Born at Market Weighton, in Yorkaaire. 
His right hand i is reserved in the museum 
of the Colle ege of urgeons (1798-1820). 

Brice (Joseph), 7 feet 8 inches. His 
hand coulds spen 194 inches. (See “ Anak.”) 

Bussy (JoAn), 7 feet 9 inches; of Dar- 
field. His brother was about the same 


hei 
Eon ea-Woo-Goo, 7 feet 6 inches ; of 
Fychou. The Chinese giant. Exhibited 
in JTondon, 1865-6. 
vid squeeze together three horee-shoas 
could squeeze er three 
at once with his hands. 
Corrner (Patrick), 8 feet 74 
The Irish giant. cast of his 
reserved in the museum of the 
urgeons (died 1802). 
ELza’ ZER, 7 cubits rt eaoned 10 feet $ 


The Jewish oned by J 


He lived in 


‘ 


i aa 








881 GIGGLESWICK FOUNTAIN, 





GIAOUR. 








*Gotmagot’s Leap.” Now called Haw, 
mear Plymouth. The legend is that 
Cori’neus 3 syl.) wrestled with Gotma- 
got king of the Albion giants, heaved the 
monster on his shoulder, carried him to 
the top of a high rock, and cast him into 
the sea. 


At the beginning of the encounter, Corinews and the 
t, standing frunt to front, beld each other strongly in 
arma, and panted aloud for breath ; but GoSnagot 
presently grasping Corinous with all his might, broke three 
of his ribs. two on the right side and one on bis left. 
Cortneus, highly enraged, roused up his whole strength, 
matched up the giant, ran with him on his shoulders to 
te neighbouring cliff, and heaved him Into the sea... 
The place where he fel] ls called Lam 
Gay. —Geolfrey, British History, 1. 16 (1143). 


Giaour [dione Byron's tale 
ealled The Giaour is supposed to be 
told by a Turkish fishernian who had 
been emploved all the day in the gulf of 
gi’na, and landed his boat at night-fall 
on the Pirg’us, now called the harbour of 
Port Leoné. He was eye-witness of all 
the eal aoe and in one He pone 
incipal agent (see line 352: ‘‘] hear the 
sound of coming feet... "”). The tale 
is this: Leilah, the beautiful concubine 
of the caliph Hassan, falls in love with a 
giaour, flees from the seraglio, is over- 
taken by an emir, put to death, and cast 
into the sea. The giaour cleaves Ilassan’s 
skull, flecs for his life, and becomes a 
monk. Six years afterwards he tells his 
history to his father confessor on his 
death-bed, and prays him to ‘lay his 
body with the humblest dead, and not 
even to inscribe his name on his tomb.” 
Accordingly, he is called ‘‘the Giaour,” 
and is known by no other name (1813). 


Giauha’re (4 3y/.), daughter of the 
king of Saman’dal, the mightiest of the 
under-sea empires. When her father was 
made captive by king Saleh, she emerged 
for safety to a desert island, where she 
met Bed’er the voung king of Persia, 


who proposed to make her his wife; but | 


Giauhare ‘‘spat on him,” and changed 
him ‘‘into a white bird with red beak 
and red legs.” The bird was sold to a 
certain king, and, being disenchanted, re- 
sumed the human form. After several 
marvellous adventures, Beder ayain met 
the under-sea princess, proposed to her 
= et and she became his wife and queen 
Persia.—Arabian Niyits (‘‘ Beder and 
Giauharé"’). 
Gibbet, a foot-pad and a convict, 
who ‘left his country for his country's 
ood.” He piqued himself on being ‘‘ the 
t-behaved man on the road.” 


“Twas for the good of my country | should be abroad. — 
George Farquhar, The Seauz' Ssratagem, iil, 3 (1707). 


tto this | 


| 


| Centlivre, 





Gibbet maid’ when bo beard’ that’ Alcrwell bad pono to 
church, “ That looks ve Snith. 

(hibbet (Ifaster), secretary to Martin 
Joshua Bletson rliamentary commis- 
sionet).—Sir W. Scott, Woodstock (time. 
Commonwealth). 

Gib’bie (Guse), a half-witted lad in 
the service of y Bellenden.—Sir W. 
Scott, Old Mortality (time, Charles I1.). 
A pen pica! feghr years essed SB etagthees sl 
> Sm eae important office of minding the cowa.— 

Gibby, a Scotch Highlander in attend- 
ance on colonel Briton. He marries Inis, 
the waiting-woman of Isabella.—Mrs. 
Wonder (1714). 


Gibou (Madame), a type of feminine 
vulgarity. A hard-headed, keen-witted, 
coarsely clever, and praymatical mattress 
femine, who believes in nothing but a 
good digestion and money in the Funds. 
—Henr Monnier, Scenes : 
(1852). 

Mde. Pochet and Mde. Gibou are the 
Freneh *‘ Mrs. Gamp and Mrs. Harris.” 


Gibraltar of America, Quebes. 


Gibraltar of Greece, a precipitous 
rock 700 feet above the sea. 


Gibraltar of the New World, 
Cape Diamond, in the province of Quebec. 

Gibson (Janet), a young dependent 
on Mrs. Margaret Bertram of Singleside. 
—Sir W. ee Guy Mannering (time, 
George IT.). 


Gifford (John). This pseudonym Las 
been adopted by three authurs: (1) John 
Hichards Green, Bluckstune's mmen- 
tarws Abridjed (1823); (2) Edward Foss, 
An Abridyment of Blackstune's Commen- 
turies (1821); (8) Alexander Whellier, 
The English Lawyer. 

Giford (William), 
Surud, a tical satire, which annihi- 
luted the Della Crusca school of poets 
(1794). In 1796, Gifford published Zhe 
Meriad, to expose the low state of dra- 
matic authorship. 
sierra es tis Seer 
Lhriing except authors; them he regarded as a 
felimonger regards eels, or a9 Lzank Walton did worms — 
Geeilleay, 

Giggleswick Fountain ebbe and 
flows eight times aday. The tale is that 
(iicgeleswick was once a nymph livi 
wilh the Oreads on mount Craven. 
satyr chanced to see her, and resolved to 
win her; but Giggleswick fled to escape 


—James 


author of The 








GILBERT. 








ber pursuer, and prar ing to the “topic | 


pods” (the local genit), was converted 
inte & fountain, which still pants with 
fear. The tale is told by Drayton, tn bis 
Polyolbion, xxviii. (1622). 

Gilbert, butler to sir Patrick Charteria 
provost of Perth.—Sir W. Scott, Jair 
Maid of Pert (time, Henry IV.). 


Gilbert (Sir), noted for the eanatire 


virtue of his eword and cere-cloth, Sir 


Launcelot touched the wounds af alr | 


Meliot with «ir Gilbert's sword and wiped 
them with the cere-cloth, and “anon @ 
wholer man was he never in all his life.” 
—Sir T. Malory, History of Prines 
Arthur, i. 116 (1470). 


Gilbert with the White 
one of the com panions of Robin Hood, 
mentioned often in The Lyttell Geale of 
Robyn Lode (fytte v. and vil. ). 


Thalr sow | Malllaind wren sel Beir Crag, 
Reiser Hode, ered i) \\ eth the qobite bene 
Quboem fay of Naocllen ew or Maal iy Lome 


oe’ Porm, L 
Gilbertscleugh, cousin to Indy 
Margaret Bellenden.—Sir W. Scott, Vid 


Mortality (time, Charles 11.) 


Gil Blas, son of Blas of Santilla'’né 
‘squire or “‘escudero” to a lady, and 
brought up by his unele. canon Gil Peres. 


Aedglhnion, both robbers, and beth 
langed. One lived in the seventeenth 
cont and “had the honour” of 
robbing cardinal Richeliea and Oliver 
Cromwell. she saat one been 
r ig “Edinburgh fr “« stealing 
exec in n | 

sheep, borses, and oxen.” In the Percy 
Kehques, I, iti, 12, is the lament of 


Gilderoy's widow at the execution of ber 


and Campbell has a ballad on the same 
subject. Both are entitled “' Gilderoy,” 
and refer to the latter robber: bot m 
Thomson's Orpheus Culedonius, iL is @ 
copy of the older ballad. 

A Thomson’ 5 ballad places Gilderw 
in the reign of Mary “queen of Scots,” 
Imt this is not consistent with the 
tradition of his robbing Richelieu and 








GILES. 

Giles (1 syl.), jailer of sir inald 
Front ae Beat '—Bir W. Seott, eanhoe 
(time, Richard I.). 

Giles (Will), apprentice of Gibbie 
Girder the at Wolf's Hope 
village.—Sir W. Scott, Bride of 


moor (time, William III.). 


Giles, the ‘farmer's boy,” ‘meek, 
fatherless, and poor,” the hero of Robert 
Bloomfield’s principal poem, which is 
divided into “Spring,” ‘‘ Summer,” 
*‘ Autamn,” and ‘‘ Winter” (1798). 


Giles of Antwerp, Giles Coignet, 
the painter (1530-1600). 


Gilfillan (Habakkuk), called ‘‘ Gifted 
Gilfillan,” a Camero’nian officer and 
enthusiast.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George II.). 

Gill (Harry), a farmer, who forbade 
old Goody Blake to carry home a few 
sticks, which she had picked up from his 
land, to light a wee-bit fire to warm her- 
self by. Old Goody Blake cursed him 
for his meanness, saying he should never 
from that moment cease from shivering 
with cold ; and, sure enough, from that 
hour, a-bed or up, summer or winter, at 
home or abroad, his teeth went ‘* chatter, 
chatter, chatter still.” Clothing was of 
no use, fires of no avail, for, spite of all, 
he muttered, ‘‘ Poor Harry Gill is very 
cold.”— Wordsworth, Goody Blake and 
Harry Gill (1798). 


Gillamore (3 sy/.) or Guillamur, 
king of Ireland, being slain in battle by 
ur, Ireland was added by the con- 
queror to his own dominions. 
Bow Gillamore again to Ireland he pursued . . . 
And having slain the king, the country waste be laid. 
Drayton, Polyolbton, iv. (1612). 
Gillian, landlady of don John and 
don Frederic.—Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Chances (1620). 


Gil'lian (Dame), tirewoman to lady 
Eveline. and wife of Raoul the huntsman. 
~--Sir W. Scott, The Letrvthed (time, 
Henry II.). 

Gilliflowers. A nosegay of these 
flowers was given by the fairy Amazo’na 
to Carpil‘lona in her flight. The virtue 
of this noseyay was, that so long as the 
princess had it about her person, those 
whe knew her before would not recognize 
her.—Comtesse D’Aunoy, Fairy Tales 
(‘* Princess Carpillona,” 1682). 

Gils (Sulunon), ship's instrument 
waker. A sio'vy, thoughtfal old man, 


wacle of Walter Gay, who was in the | 





SS SS eS A <A 


8838 GINES DE PASSAMONTE, 





house of Mr. Dombey, merchant. Gills 
was very proud of his stock-in-trade, 
but never seemed to sell anything.—oO 
Dickens, Dombey and Son (1848). 


Gilpin (John), a linen-draper and 
train-band captain, living in 
His wife said to him, ‘‘ Though we have 
been married twenty years, wehave taken 
no holiday ;” and at her advice the well- 
to-do linen-draper agreed to make a 
family party, and dine at the Bell, at 
Edmonton. Mrs. Gilpin, her sister, and 
four children went in the chaise, and 
Gilpin promised to follow on horseback. 
As madam had left the wine bebind, 
Gilpin girded it in two stone bottles to 
his belt, and started on his way. The 
horse, being fresh, began to trot, and then 
to gallop; and John, being a bad rider, 
grasped the mane with both his hands. 
n went the horse, off flew John Gilpin’s 
cloak, together with his hat and wig. 
The dogs barked, the children screamed, 
the turnpike men (thinking he was riding 
for a wager) flung open their gates. He 
flew through Edmonton, and never stopped 
till he reached Ware, when his friend the 
calender gave him welcome, and asked him 
to dismount. Gilpin, however, declined, 
saying his wife would be expecting him. 
So the calender furnished him with 
another hat and wig, and Gilpin harked 
back again, when similar disasters 
occurred, till the horse stopped at his 
house in Tondon.—W. Cowper, John 
* John Gilpin was a Mr. Beyer, of 
Paternoster Kow, who died in 1791, and 
it was lady Austin who told the anecdote 
to the poet. The marriaye adventure of 
commodore Trunnion, in Pereyrine Pickle, 
is & similar adventure. 


Giltspur Street, a street in West 
Smithfield, built on the route taken b 
the knights (who wore gilt spurs) on their 
way to Smithtield, where the tournaments 
were held. 


Gines de Passamonte, one of the 
galley slaves set free by don Quixote. 
sines had written a history of his life and 
adventures. After being liberated, th.. 
slaves set upon the knight ; they assaulted 
him with stones, robbed him and Sancho 
oi everything they valued, broke to pieces 
‘¢ Mambrino's helmet,” and then made off 
with all possible speed, taking Sancho’s 
ass with them. After a time the arse was 
recovered (pt. I. iv. 3). 
Hark ys. friend,‘ said the galley slave, * Giaes fs ay 
Dm Quizete, LiL 808), . 








GIPSEY. 885 





has also a comedy on the same favourite 
haro. 

Gipsey, the favounte greyhound of 
Charles I. 
aromas wl Srind es aria 
—Memeire, 330. 


Gi Ring, a flat gold ring, with 
stoned lat ato st, at given distances. So 
called because the stones were originally 


Egyptian pebbles—that is, agate and 
jeaper. 


Gipsies’ Head-quartera, Yet- 
holm, Roxburgh. 
Heod-quarters of the sipsies porte “, 
*,* The tale is, that the gipsies are 
wanderers because they ref to shelter 
the Virgin and Child in their flight into 
Fayre. — Aventinus, Annales : 


Giralda of Seville, called by the 
Knight of the Mirrors a giantess, whose 
body was of brass, and who, without 
ever shifting her place, was the most un- 
steady and changeable female in the 
world. In fact, this Giralda was no 
other than the brazen statue on a steeple 
in Seville, serving for a weathercock. 


I zed the changenhble Giralda . . . I ob! her to 
atand still; for during the space of a whole no wind 
Biew but from the north.” —Cervantes, Don Quéizete, 11. L 


34 (1618). 

Girder_ Cidbie, 1.6. n Gilbert), the 
cocper at Wolf's Hope village. 

ean Girder, wife of the cvoper.—Sir 
W. Scott, Bride of Lammernwor (time, 
William III.). 

Girdle (Armida's), a cestus wom by 
Armi’da, which, like that of Venus, poe- 
sessed the mayical charm of proveking 
irresistible love.—Tassv, in De- 
bicered (1575). 

Girdle (Flor’imel s), the prize of a grand 
tournament, in which sir Sat/vrane (3 sy/.), 
sir Jirianor, sir Sanglier, sir Artégal, 
sir Cambel, sir Tri’amond, Brit’omart, 
and others took part. It was accidentally 
dropped by Florimel in her flight (bk. 
fii. 7, 31), picked up by sir Satyrane, 
and employed by him for binding the 
monster which frightened Florimel to 
flight, but afterwards came ayain into sir 
Satyrane's possession, when he placed it 
for safety in a yolden coffer. Jt was a 
Gereeous girdle, made by Vulcan for 

emus, and embossed with pearls and 
precious stoncs ; but its chief merit was 

Bs gave the rirtue of chaste love 
And wifehoud true to all that it did bear; 


17 


GLADIATOR. 





*,* Other tests of chastity weres 
‘6 Arthur's drinking horn,” mentioned ia 
the Morte d Arthur. The “court mantel,” 
mentioned in the ballad called ‘‘ The Boy 
and the Mantel,” in Percy's . 
The ‘enchan cup,” mentio in 
Orlando Furioso, ii., etc. 

broidered the pas 
embroi e ons, desi ° 
and pains of love. It was seaalty ated 
a cestus, which means ‘‘embroidered,” and 
was worn lower down than the cin’gulam 
or matron’s girdle, but higher up than 
the zone or maiden's girdle. It was said 
to possess the magical power of exciting 
love. Homer describes it thus: 


e on which was 


Pope, /Mad, xiv. 


Girdle of Opakka, foresight and 
prudence, 

” The girdle of Opakka, with which Kifri the 
fe exdned, what is it,” said Shemahelnar, ** but foresight 
earth 1 "—Str G Morell [ie J Ridley) Fates of the Gowid 
(** History of Mahoud,” tale vil., 1761). 

Girdles, impreseed with mystical 
characters, were bound with certain cere- 
monien round women in gestation, to 
accelerate ithe birth and pileviate the 
pains o ur. It wasa id custom, 
observed bY the Gaels, and continued in 
practice till quite modern times. 

Aldo offered to give Erragon “a handred stecds, chil- 
dren of the rein; a hundred hawks with 


-.. anda hummlred girdles to bind 5 
friends of the bisthe of, heroes "--Oekaa, Phe Battie of 


G n( The laird va previously 
Frank Hayston, laird of Bucklaw, the 
bridegroom of Lucy Ashton. Heis found 
wounded by his bride on the wedding 
night, recovers, and leaves the country ; 
but the bride foes mad and dies. 

W. Scott, Bride of Lammermoor (time, 
William IIT.). 


Gjallar, Heimdall's horn, which he 
blows to give the gods notice when any 
one approaches the bridge Bifrtet.— 
Scaadinucian Mythology. 


Gladiator (The Dying). This fam- 
ous statuc, found at Nettuno (the aa- 
cient Antium), was the work of Agasiag, 
a sculptor of Ephesus. - 

20 








GLATISANT. 


Glastonbury Thorn. The leyend is that 
poy ah of Arimathés etuck his staff into 
in “the sacred isle of Glas- 


oa ‘and Hh nerBi db - this thorn are | 
“on y” every year. 
$a rises Daye every yee 


fa at pein me er er 
bear thelr summer's 


Drayton, Polyoliden, UL (113) 


Glatisant, the questing beast. It 
had the head of a serpent, the body of a 
libbard, buttocks of a lion, foot of a hart, 
and in its body “there was a noise like 
tha® of thirty couple of hounds questi 
ae in full cry). Sir Palomi’dé@s the 

was for ever following this beast. 
—Sir T. Malory, History of Prince 
Arthur, ii, 52, 53,149 (1470), 


Glau'ce (2 fyt.), nurse of the princess 
Brit‘omart. She tried by charms to 
“ando” her lady's love for sir Artegal, 
“but love that is in gentle heart begun, 
= idle charm can remove." Finding her 

useless, she took the princess to 

oma ang ‘and Merlin told her that 
Artegal she would found a 

mh > of bition Kings from which would arise “a 

royal virgin that shall shake the power of 

Si Right. b two now started in quest of 

e t, but in time got separated, 
Glauci became “the ‘squire" of sir 
Scu'damore, but re-appears (bk. iii, 12) 
after the combat between Brtomart and 
Artegal, reconciles the combatants, and 
the sp hyped' consents “'to be the love of 
+ : ray Neyer him pol her Gus . 

» iV: penser, Fuéry Queen 
11390, 1596). 


Glaucus, « fisherman of Beco'tia. 
He observed that all the fish which he 
laid on the grass received fresh vigour, 
and immediately leaped into the sea. 
This grass had been planted by Kronos, 
and when Glaucus tasted it, he also 
leaped into the sea, and became a pro- 
phetic marine deity. Once a year he 
visited all the coasts of Greece, to utter 
his predictions. Glaucus is the sailors’ 
patron 





By) old pentane (beagle nag 

Milton, Vemma, B74 (1. 

ds Glace, when be tevted of the herb 

That cade him peer among the ocmun gole 
Daotd, Paradi, L (FLL 


Glaweus, son of Hi Sg er Being 
smothered in a tub of honey, he was 
ty Een to life by [a] enete given him 

by Escula’pios aang Ag a rece BO 
called).—A poll 


8387 





GLENDINNING. | 
Glaucus, of Chios, inventor of the art of 
seldecing rasta, ~Paannaiiat, itinerary of 
Tee. 


self by horses, This refers to Glancus, 

et iy Sere who was killed _ 
pectg Some say he was tramp 
death by them, and some that 

Gi oy et Diomédis ‘bere 

auc , o 
foolish exchange. omer (Jliad, - 
tells us that Glancus his golden 
armour for the iron one of Diomédés. The 


Glaucua was the grand- 
won of Bellerophon (In Greek, “ Glau- 
oa. 

Glem, the scene of Arthur's battle, is 
bs Seeteneiberbante. 


that all 
Sass fey the wales soancs of tes 


Tennyson. 

Glenallan (Joscelind dowager countess 
of), whose funeral takes place by torch- 
light in the Catholic cha 

The eari of Glenallan, son of the dow- 
ager countess.—Sir W. Scott, The Anti- 
quary (time, George IT].). 

Glenalvon, heir of lord Randolph 
When young Norval, the son of lady 
Randolph, makes his ‘unexpected appear- 
ance, G enalvon sees in him a sera Gaceal whom 
he hates. He pretends to lord Randol 
that the young mano is a suitor of 
Randolph's, and, having excited the pas- 
son of jealousy, contrives to bring his 
lordship to a place where he witnesses 
their endearments, A fight ensues, in 
which Norval slays Glenalvon, but is 
himeelf alain by lord Randolph, who then 
discovers too late that the supposed suitor 
was his wife's son.—Home, Dowjlas 
(1787). 


Glencoe (2 syl.), the scene of the 
massacre of M‘lan and thirty-eight of his 
glenmen, in 1692. All Jacobites were 
commanded to submit to William IT], by 
the end of December, 1691. M‘lan was 
detained by a heavy fall of snow, and sir 
John Dalrymple, the master of Stair, sent 
captain Campbell to make an example of 
the rebel,” 

*.* Talfourd has a drama entitled 
Glencoe or the Fall of the M‘Donalds, 


Glendale (Sir Richard), 
conspirator ith “Red uanntlet,—Bir per 
Scott, Medyauntlet (time, George ITI.). 

ne ae Elspeth) or Exvarera 
Brypoxe \ wade to of 
Glendinning of the rower of of 


ae | 





GLUMDALCA. 





GOD. 


EE oer EEE — —— 
ists, and those of the Italian school | thinking death preferable to “ gtasvation 
Fiovinist ses ect k iaimerable al 


Est-ce Gltck, est-ce Puccini, 
qe dalt cuuronner Polynnie? 
ne entre Glick et Puccinl 
’ Pout le Parnasse eat désunt, 
L'an souticut ce que autre nie, 
Et Clio veut hattre Uraule. 


Pour mol, qu! crains toute manila 
id trréwclu ee 

"“épourant in a Gitek, 
Jon'y ergo Gitek. 


*.* A similar contest raged in Eng- 
land between the Bononeinists and 
Handelists. The prince of Wales was 
the leader of the Handel or German 
party, and the duke of Marlborough of 
the Bononcini or Italian school, (Hee 
TWEEDLEDUM.) 


Glumdalea, queen of the giants, 
captive in the court of king Arthur. 
The king cast love-glances at her, and 
made queen Dollallolla jealous ; but the 
siantess loved lord Grizzle, and lord 
Griesle lowa the princess Huncamu 
-and Huncamunca loved the valiant Tom 
Thamb.—Zom Thumb, by Fielding the 
novelist (1780), altered ‘by O’Hara, author 
of Midas (1778). 


Glum-dal’clitch, a 
old ‘‘and only forty feet 
such a ‘“‘little thing,” 


his sojourn in Brobdingnag.—S 
Gulliver's Travels. 


-sepiaelgerivar ent ince ypee ney rayon 

She wept, sabe blubbered, and she tore her ade 

Glumms, the male population of 
the imaginary country Nosmnbdsgrsatt, 
visited by Peter Wilkins. Te glumms, 
like the females, called 8 (9.0. i 
had wings, which served eh or flying 
ee —R. Pultock, Peter Wilkins 
MV 


Glutton (The), Vitellius the Roman 
emperor (born a.p. 15, reigned 69, died 
69). Visiting the field after the battle of 
Bedriac, in Gaul, he exclaimed, ‘‘The body 
of a dead enemy isa deli htful perfume. 

*,* Charles IX. of France, when he 
went in grand procession to visit the 

ibbet on which admiral Coligny was 

anging, had the wretched heartlessness 
to exclaim, in doggere] verse: 

Fragrance sweeter than the rose 

Rises from our slaugitered foss. 

Glutton (The), Gabius Apicius, sali 
lived during the reign of Tiberius. 
epent £300,000 on the luxuries of the 
table, and when only £80,000 of his 
fortune remained, he hanged him 


irl nine | 
igh.” Being 


the ates 
Gulliver waa commited to her wine | 


_ hitherto without success. 





le pittance.” 
Gna, the messen of Frigga.— 
Scandinavian Mythology. 
Goats. The Pleiades are called in 
Spain The Seven Little Goats. . 
sta Carnie bon Qe Sy 
Sancho Panza affirmed that two 
of ‘dayons eee of a green colour, two 
camation, two blue, and one motley ; 
** but,” he adds, ‘* no he-goat or cucko 
ever passes beyond the horns of the 
moon. 


duak whe ee who ut otlered apd by 
um wno ons 
in) 


Gobbo (Old), the father of Launce- 
lot. He was stone blind. 

Launcetot Gobbo, son of Old Gobbo. 
Hie left the service of Shylock the Jew 
for that of Bassa’ nio a Christian. Launce- 
lot Gobbo is one uf the famous clowns of 
Shakespeare.—Shakespeare, Merchant of 
Venice (1698). 


Gob'il re God, ti te assumed 
name of Shae vt aie Sten 
as a dwarf, peat 
hollow eyes, croo 

a pied 

eden His neck 


od boner sang sheoka 
hanging. lips, and black 
ort, his shoulders 
, his breast fat, his arms long, his 
pa ‘ kewed," and Le rode “ bri 
bragge on a little nag.” He to 
Graunde Amoure he was wanderi 
the world to find a virtuous 


over 
ife, but 
y Correc- 
tion met the » and commanded 
Gobilyve (3 sy/.) to be severely beaten 
for a lving variant. Stephes Hawes, The 
Passe-tyme of Plesure, xxix., XXXi., 
Xxxii. (1515). 


Gobseck, a grasping money-lender, 
the hero and title of one of Balzac’s novels. 


God. 
Full of the god, full of scl ite 


intoxicated. 
God made the country man made 
the town.—Cowper’s rok (eT ("The Sots”). 


Varro, in his De Re Rustica, has: “‘ Divina 
Natura ayros dedit, are humans edificavit 
urbes.” 

God sides with the strongest. Napoleca 
]. said, ‘Le bon Dieu est toujours du 
coté des gros bataillons.” Julius Casar 
made the same remark, 








° © Goethe has made this the title and 
of an historical drama. 


how ya” (Ca; anh, eateain 5 nf the ie 
William lik). ). Bree 

Gog, according to Ezek. xxxviii., 
EXXI2., was of Magog” (a 


country or ole Calmet s Cam- 
by'sés king of “Bersia is feenk but 

Antiochus Epiph’anes is 
alluded to. 


Pitas y Rey ii 7-9, means Anti- 
an agog, in conjunc- 
coe mean all princes of the earth who 
are enemies of the Christian Church 
° * Sale says Gog is a Turkish tribe. 
ie Korda, xviii. note. 


Gog and Magog. Prester John, | 


in ies letter to Manuel Comnénus, em- 


peror of Constantinople, speaks of Gog | 
and as two separate nations | 


trib to him, These, with thirteen 
pram e says, are now shut up behind 
inaccessible mountains, but at the end of 
the world they will be let loose, and 
overrun the whole earth. — Albericus 
Triom Fontinm, CAronicles (1242). 

Sale tells us that Gog and M og are 
called by the Arabs ** Yajui" ond, Ma- 
jij,” which are two nations or tribes 
Jeaconded from Japhet, son of Noah, 
Gog, according to some authorities, is a 
Turkish tribe; and Magog is the tribe 
ealled “Gilin™ by Ptolemy, and “Geli ™ 
or “ Gela" by Stabe Al ‘Korda, EViil. 
note, 

Respecting the re-appearance of Gog 
and Magog, the Kordn says: ** They [the 
res shall not return... till Gog and 

. have a passage opened for them, 
pa ey [the dead] shall hasten from 
every high hull,” i.e. the resurrection (ch. 
XX1.). 


Gog and Magog. The two statues of 
Guildhall so called are in reality the 
statues of Gogmagog or Gotmagut and 
Corineus, referred to in the next article, 

See also Conmnevs,) The Albion 5 
known by his pole-axe and spiked 
Two statuca so called stood on the same 
spot in the reign of Henry V.; but those 
now eeen were made by Richard Saunders, 
in 1708, and are fourteen feet in height. 


Ln Howe's tine, children mie! coaniry vision were told 


ilay, ng the glants heard the cluck strile 
ptt! Ray doen Ww duarn—We and Mew 


foul of each other in angry combat. 


—— eee 


GOFFE. 891 








: GOLD OF TOLOGA. 


Gog'’mago Srvc, he the Albion giants, 
eighteen foet » feet in| ht, killed by Corin 
in a Ww anu flung by bim 
over the Hoe or ‘Haw of Plymouth, Fo 

this achievement, Brute gave his follower 
all that Aorn of land now called Corn- 





| aul Mafetld ag a contraction of Corin- 


contest ia described by Drayton 
i ‘his Polyoltion, i. (1612), 


Een thus unmoved 
Seed Corteoms, the sisw af Guendiclen, 
with his monstrous ememry, 

nent Fharied, all hatiered to the 
Dore run thee’ hgh umn sce ant a 
Called Lan’ gema 

Joon gf lire, will, 595, 
Spenser throws the accent of Corineus 


} on the seco liable, Sow on the 
| first, while Drayton makes i oeued a 


four syllables, and accents the third. 


magog Hill, the higher of the 
Rh Saws | some three miles a, of 


Cambridge. It once belonged to the 
Balsham Hills, but, “being rode and 
bearish, | neither God nor man," 


it was named in reproach Goges 
The legend is that this Gogmag ill 


was once a huge giant, who fe in love 


| with the nymph Granta, and, meetizng 


her alone, told her all his heart, saying: 


but the saucy n onl 
it, and told aie love ane 
uses, and all made him eheis’ jest and 
rt and laughter.— Drayton, Poly- 
biom, xxi. (1622). 


Goitre. 


Who would believe that there 
Dew-lapp'd like bolls, whose throats heed 

Waillats of flesh ? 

Slakeeare, The Tempest, act Ul se 3 (1608). 
Gold of Nibelungen (Tiz), un- 
lucky wealth. “To have the gold of 
Nibelungen™ is to have ao \ sion 
which seems to bring a curse with it, 
The uncle who murdered “the babes in 
the wood™ for their estates and money, 
ot the “ gold of Nibelunyen ;" nothing 
m that moment went well with him— 
his cattle died, his cropa failed, bia barns 
were destroyed by fire or tem and 
he was reduced to utter rum, (See 
celandic Edda, 


oe Oe 


' | Nipeiusces.)—J 
Another tale was that they then fell | 


Gold of Tolo’sa 
which never prosper. 














GOMER. 





GOLDEN STATE, 898 
47-407). The name is the Greek | king of the Gold-minesand All-Fair were 


ehrusos stdin, ** gold mouth,” 


Golden State (The), California, in 
North Anerica. 


Golden Stream (Jie), Joannes Da- 
masctpus (diced 756). 

Golden-tongued (Tie), St. Peter 
of Ravenna (4%5-450). Our equivalent 
is a free transla‘ion of the Greek chry- 
sofogos (chruwos logos, “ gold discourse "), 


Golden Valley (Tic), the eastern 


portion of Limerick ; 80 called from its 
great fertility. 

Golden Water (Tie). One drop of 
this water dropped into the basin of a 


fountain would (il! it, and then throw up — 
It was 


a jet Meaw of exquisite device, 
ed “golden” because the water looked 
like liquid gold.—Araivan Nights (“ The 
Two Sisters,” the last tale). 
*,* In Chery and Fairstar, by the 
comtesse D'Aunoy, the “golden water" 
is called “the dancing water.” 


Goldfinch (Charles), a vulgar, horsy 
fellow, impudent and insolent in manner, 
who flirts with Widow Warren, and con- 
spires with ber and the Jew Silky to 
destroy Mr. Warren's will. [iy this will 
the widow ‘vas left £600 a year, but the 


bulk of the property went to Jack Milford | 


his natural son, and Sophia Freelove the 
daughter of Widow Warren by a former 
marriage. (See EAULE.) 

Father was a ‘baker, grandfather a dopeacller, to. 
@ gentleman.—Holcralt, The Koad fo Kulm, il | (Lea). 


Goldiebirds (Aessrs.), creditors of 


sir Arthur Wardour.—ir W, Scott, The 


aAntiquary (tinie, George I1!.). 
Gold-mine ( The) or Miller of 

Grenoble, o drama by F. Stirling 

(1854). (For the plot, see Simon.) 


Gold-mine of Europe (T7%e). 
Transylvania was once so called; but 
the supply of gold obtained therefrom 
has now very reatly diminished. 


Gold-mines (Ain of tic), a powerful, 
handsome prince, who was just about to 
marry the princess All-Fair, when Yellow 
Dwarf claimed her as his betrothed, and 
carried her to Stee) Castle on a Spanish 
eat. A good evren gave the betrothed 
king a dianiond sword to secure All-Fuir's 
deliverance ; jut after overcoming every 
obstacle, he was so delighted at seeing 
her, that he ener. hia eword. In a 
moment Yellow Dwarf snatched it op, 
and stabbed liix rival tothe heart, The 


} but simply to advertise the fact 





both changed into two palm treesa.—Com- 
tesse Aer fairy Zales (“The Yellow 
Dwarf,” 1682), 

Gold-purse of Spain. Andalo’- 
cia is so called becuse it is the city from 
which Spain derives its chief wealth. 

Goldsmith ( Oliver). 


Here lie Wolly Goldemith, for shortness called Moll, 
Sen ak ie ea. 


Goldsmith (Rev. J.), one of the many 
ae a adopted by sir Richard 
Phillips, in a series of school books. 
Some other of his false names were the 
Rev. David Dlair, James Adair, Rev, C. 
Clarke, ete., with noted French names 
for educational Frerch books, 


Goldsmith’s Monument, in West- 
minster Abbey, is by Nollekena, 

Gold'thred omreneine mercer, near 
Cumnor Place.—Sir W. Scott Kenilworth 
(time, Elizabeth). 


Gold'y. Oliver Goldsmith was so 
called by Dr. Johnson (1728-1774). 


Gol'gotha ("' the place of a seull"), 
small elevated spot north-west of Jeru- 
salem, where criminals were executed, 
Used in poetry to signity a battle-field or 
place of yreat slaughter, 

Sepa wid mesai te bathe in reaking wounds 
Shakespeare, Mackerk, met L we. 2 (16046). 

*,* In the University of Cambridge, 

the dons’ gallery in Great St. Mary's is 


| called ‘“‘Golgotha™” because the Aeads of 


the colleges sit there. 


Gol'gotha (The City), Temple Bar, 
London ; so called because the heads of 
traitors, etc., used at one time to be ox- 
posed there after decapitation. This was 
not done from any notion of punishment, 
a6 @ 
warning to evil-doers, Temple Bar was 
taken away from the Strand in 1878. 


Golightly (4J/r.), the fellow who 
wants to borrow 5s. in Lend Me Five Shil- 
linys, a farce by J, M. Morton, 


Goltho, the friend of Ul'finore (3 
aut). He Pal ode ka Birt 
daughter of lord As‘tragon the 1 
but Dirtha luved the duke Gondibert 
The tale being untinished, the sequel of 
Geltho is not known.—Sir William 
Davenant, (rondébert (died 1668), 


Gomer or Godmer, a British giant, 





GOSH. 


Gosh, the Right Hon. Charles 
Arbuthnot, the most confidential friend 
of the duke of Wellington, with whom 
he lived. 


Gosling (Giles), landlord of the 
Black Bear inn, near Cumnor Place. 

Cicely Gosling, daughter of Giles.—Sir 
W. Scott, Aenilworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Gospel Doctor (Zhe), John Wy- 
slitfe 1324-1384). 


Gospel of the Golden Rule, ‘ Do 
as you would be done by,” or “ As ye 
would that men should do to you, do ye 
alse tv them.” — Lute vi. 31. 

. He preached to a!) men everywhere 
The Gospel of the Golden Rule. 
Longfellow, The Wayside /nn (prelude). 

Gospeller (The Hot), Dr. R. Barnes, 
burnt at Smithfield, 1540. 


Gos’samer (i.e. God's seam or 
thread). The legend is that gossamer is 
the ravellings of the Virgin Mary's 
winding-sheet, which fell away on her 
ascension into heaven. 





Gossips (Prince of), Samuel Pepys, 
noted for his gossiping Diary, commenc- 
ing January 1, 1659, and continued for 
nine years (1632-1703). 


Goswin, a rich merchant of Bruges, 
who is in reality Florez, son of Gerrard 
king of the beggars. His mistress, Bertha, 
the supposed daughter of Vandunke the 
burgomaster of Bruges, is in reality the 
daughter of the duke of Brabant.— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, The Seggars’ 
Bush (1622). 


Goths (The last of the), Roderick, the 
thirty-fourth of the Visigothic line of 
kings in Spain. He was the son of 
Cor’dova, who had his eyea put out by 
Viti'za the king of the Visigoths, where- 
upon Roderick rose against Vitiza and 
dethroned him; but the sous and ad- 
herents of Vitiza applied to the Moors, 
who sent over Tank with 90,000 men, 
and Koderick was slain at the battle of 
Xerres, a.p. 711. 

*,.* Southey has an epic poem called 
R wh, the Last of the Goths. He 
makes ‘‘ Rusilla” to be the mother of 
Roderick. 


Gothland or Gottland, an island 
called ‘‘ The eye of the Baltic.” Geoffrey 
of Monmouth savs that when king Arthur 
had added Ireland to his dominions, he 
sailed to Iceland, which he subdued, and 
then both ‘ Doldav'ns king of Gothland 





now ee 


897 GRAAF, 


and Gunfasius king of the Orkneys 
voluntarily became his tributaries.”—- 
British History, ix. 10 (1142). 
To Gothland how n this conqueror maketh forth. .. 
Where Iceland he won, and Orkney after got. 
Drayton, Polyeldion, iv. (1612). 
Gottlieb [Got./eed), a cottage farmer, 
with whom prince Henry of Hoheneck 
went to live after he was struck with 
leprosy. ‘The cottager’s daughter Elsie 
volunteered to sacrifice her life fir the 
cure of the prince, and was ultimately 
married to him.—-Iartmann von der Aue, 
Poor Henry (twelfth century); Long- 
fellow, Golden Legend. 


Gour'lay (Aishie), a privileged fool 
or jester.—Sir W. Scott, Lhe Antiquary 
(time, George III.). 

Gourlay (Ailsie) an old sibyl at the 
death of Alice Gray.—Sir . Scott, 
Bride of Lammermoor (time, William ITI.). 


Gourmas (Don), a national portrait 
of the Spanish nobility.—Pierre Corneille, 
The Cid ( 1636). 

The character of don Gormas, for its very excellence, 
drew down the censure of the Freuch Academy.—Sir W, 
Scott, The Drama. 

Go'vernale (3 sy’.), tirst the tutor 
and then the attendant of sir Tristram de 
Lionés, 


Gow (Old Niell), the fiddler. 

Nathaniel Gow, son of the fiddler.— 
Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan’s Well (time, 
George III:). 

Gow (Henry) or Henry Smith, also 
called ‘* Gow Chrom” and ‘Hal of the 
Wynd," the armourer. Suitor of Ca- 
tharine Glover ‘the fair maid of Perth,” 
whom he marries.—Sir W. Scott, Faw 
Maid of Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Gowk Storm, a short storm, suchas 
occurs in spring, when the gowk or 
cuckoo comes. 


He trusted the present (disturbance) would prove Sut 
a gowk storm.—Sir W. Scutt, Sales of a Grandfather, 4 
#@. 


Gowk-thrapple (Aaister), a co- 
venanting preacher.—Sir W. Seott, 
Waterley (time, George IT.). 

A man of cuarse, mechanical, perhaps rather {ntrinal- 
cally feeble intellect, with the vehemence of some 
drunindng Gowk-thrapple.—Carly le. 

Graaf (Count) was a great speculator 
in corm One year a sad famine pre 
vailed, and he expected, like Pharaoh 
king of Egypt, to make an enormous 
fortune by his speculation, but an army 
of ms, pressed by hunger, invaded his 
barns, and then swartoing into tha 











GRACE WAS IN ALL HER STEPS. 899 GRAMMAR. 
Grace was in all Her Ste town, disguised ised as a black servant, dD 
Adam says of Eve: pe he effects hi escape from 
Grace was in all ber steps, heaven in her eye, Louisa Gradyrind, eldest of 


la gesture dignity and love. 
Paradise Lest, vill. 488, ote. (1685). 
Grace’church, London, means the 
gras or grass church. It was built on 
the site of the old grase-market. 


Gracio’sa, a lovely princess, who is 
the object of a step-mother’s most im- 
e 


place . The step-mother's name 
w % 
her 


on, and the tale shows how all 

icious plots are thwarted by Per- 

cinet, a fairy prince, in love with 
Graciosa. 

Gracio’so, the licensed fool of Span- 
ish drama. He has his coxcomb and 
truncheon, and mingles with the actors 
without aiding or abetting the plot. 
Sometimes he transfers his gibes from the 
actors to the audience, like our circus 
clowns. 

Gradas’so, king of Serica’na, 
‘* bravest of the pagan knights.” He 
went against Charle e with 1C0,000 
vassals in his train, “all discrownéd 
kings,” who never addressed him but on 
their knees.—Bojardo, Orlundu Jnnamo- 
glee Ariosto, Orlando Furioso 

1516). 


Grad’ GQ (Thomas), a man of 
facts realities. Everything about 
him is square; his forehead is square, 
and so is his fore-finger, with which he 
emphasizes all he says. Formerly he 
was in the wholesale hardware line. In 
his greatness he becomes M.P. for Coke- 
town, and he lives at Stone Lodge, a 
mile or so from town. He prides him- 
self on being eminently practical; and 
though not a bad man ai heart, he blights 
his children by his hard, practical way of 
bringing them up. 

rs. rind, wife of Thomas Grad- 
grind. A little thin woman, always 
taking physic, without receiving from it 
any benetit. She looks like an indif- 
ferently exccuted transparency without 
light enough behind the figure. She is 
always complaining, always peevish, and 
dies soon after the marriage of her 
daughter Louisa. 

um Gradyrind, son of the above, a 
sullen young man, much loved by hi 
sister, and hulding an office in the bank 
of his brothcr-in-law, Josiah Kounderby. 
Tom robs the bank, and throws suspicion 
em Stephen Black bridge, one of the hands 
is Bounderby’s factory. When found 
out, Tom takes refuge in the circus of the 


Thomas Gradgrind, M.P. She marries 
Josiah Bounderby, banker and mill- 
her bringing up, thet she appears cold 
er bringing up, appears 
and indifferent to everything, but she 
dearly loves her brother Tom.—C. 
Dickens, Hard Times (1854). 


Greoame (Roland), heir of Avenel 
(2 ayl.). He first appears as page to the 
lady of Avenel, then as page to Mary 
queen of Scots. 

_Afagdalene Grame, dame of Heather- 

1, grandmother of Roland Greme 

he ap to Roland disgui as 
Mother Nicneven, an old witch at Kin- 
ross.—Sir W. Scott, The Abbot (time, 
Elizabeth 


Graeme ( William), the red riever 
booter] at Westburnflat.—Sir W. 
The Black Dwarf (time, Anne). 


Greovius or J. G. Grafe of Saxony, 
editor of several of the in classics 
(1632~1703). 

than I's sheers. versing oth Grewia ant 
Gronovius.—Mra. Cowley, Who's the Dupes 1. & 


(Abraham Gronovius was a famous 
philologist, 1694-1775.) 


Gra‘hame (Colonel John), of Claver- 
house, in the royal army under the duke 
of Monmouth. Afterwards viscount of 


ndee. 

Curnet Richard Grahams, the colonel's 
nephew, in the same army.—Sir W. 
Scott, Old Mortality (time, Charles II.). 


Grahame’s Dike, the Roman wall 
between the friths of the Clyde and 
Forth. 

This wall defended the Britons for a the, but the Scots 
and Picts... climbed over it. ... A man named 
Grahause ts sald to have been the first soldier who got 
over, and the common people stil cal the remains of the 
wall “Grabame’s Dike.” — Sir W. Scott, Teles of « 
Grandfather. 

Grahams, nicknamed ‘‘Of the Hen.” 
The reference is this: The Grahams, 

aving provi ur & 
feast, found that a raid been made 
upon their poul by Donald of the 

ammer (q.v.). ey went in pursuit, 
and a combat took place; but as the 
fight was for ‘‘cocks and hens,” it ob- 
tained for the Grahams the nickname of 
Gramoch an Garriyh. 


Gram, Siegfried's sword. 
Grammar. Sigismund, sumamea 
Augustus, said, “igo eum Ismperates 





GRANTAM. 





— 


401 





GRAUNDE AMOURE. 





*,* “Grangonsier™ is meant for John 
baked king of Navarre; ‘ eames 


for Catherine de Forx, queen of Navarre ; 

end “‘Gargantua™ for Henri d'Albret, 
king of Navarre. Some fancy that 
 Grangousier” is meant for Louis XII., 
but this cannot be, inasmuch as he is 
distinctly called a “heretic for declaim- 
ing against the sainta” (ch. xlv.). 


Grantam (Miss), a friend of Miss 
aodfrey, emg sir James Elliot,— 
Sam. Foote, The Lier (1761). 


Grant’mesnil (Sir Hugh de), one of 
the knights Le i. ee “tee 
ment.— Sir ‘ time, 
Richard I.), " 


Grantorto, the ification of * 
bellion in general, and of the evil 
of the Irish rebellion of 1580 in particular, 
Grantorto is represented as a buge giant, 
who withheld from Iréna [i.e. /erné or 
freland| her inheritance, Sir Artégal 
(Arthur lord tre f Wilton), being sent 
to destroy him, Se lenged him to single 
combat, and pothee | felled him to the 
earth with his sword Chrysa'or, ‘* reft off 
his head to ease him of his pain.”— 
Spenser, Fuery Queen, v. 12 (1596). 


Grapes of God. Tennyson calls 
the wine-cup of the eucharist ‘the 
chalice of the grapes of God,” alluding, 
of course, to the symbolical character of 
the sacramental wine, which represents the 
death-blood of Christ, ahed for the re- 
mission of sin. 

Where the ee Saaees 
The chalice of the ePapes uf Gua, 
Tennyson, ja Memento, 1. 

Grapes Painted. Zeuxis of Hera- 
clita painted prapes so admirabiy that 
birds flew to them and tried to eat them, 
(See Horse Paisren.) 

the bee did suck the palnted flower, 
Ard birds of gripes the cunning semblance pee 
Bir doko Luvka, J monortaliy of the Soul, il, (Lace 

Grass (Cronvs), a grass which gives 
those who taste it an irresistible desire 
for the sen. (ilaucus, the co'tian 
fisherman, observed that all the fishes 
which he laid on the grass instantly 
leaped back intw the water, whereupon 
he ‘also tasted the vrass, and was seized 
with the aime irresistible desire, Loree 
inte the sea, he became 4 ininor sea-g 
with the gift of prophecy, 

Grasa( Ju yire), to acknowledge a os 
vanquished. A Latin phrase, Herb 
dare _ porriyére.—Fliny, Nut. Jiist., 
XXII. 


| howe, 





Grasshopper (A). What animal & 
that which avoids ev one, ia a com 
und of seven animals, and lives ip 
esolate places ? 
Dar id anewremed, ime ‘tha, 
hemd of a horses, the neck of an ox, the wing of a 


Grass-market (Edinburgh), at ona 


| time the place tf public executions. 


- Gra’tian (Father), 
at John M ase er ete ata the = 
Edward Vv. 


Gratia'no, one of Anthonio's friends, 
He “talked an infinite deal of nothing, 
more than any man in on Venice. 
Gratiano married Nerissa, the waiting~ 
, helenae 7 of Portia.—Shakespeare, 

Aunt of Venice (1598), 


Gratia'’no, brother of Brabantio, and 
uncle of Desdemona, — Shakespeare, 
Othello (1611), 


_ Graunde Amoure (Sir), walking 
in a meadow, was told by Fame of a 
beautiful lady named La belle Pucell, 
who resided in the Tower of Musyke. 
He was then conducted by Gonvernance 
and Grace to the Tower of | ine, where 
he received instruction from the seven 
Sciences :—Gramer, Logyke, Rethorik 
Arismetricke, Musyke, Geome and 
Astronomy. In the Tower of usyke 
he met La belle Pucell, with whom he fell 
in love, but they parted foratime. Graunde 
Amoure went to the Tower of Chivalry 
to perfect himself in the arts of knight- 
hood, and there he received his degree 
from king Melyz'yus, He then started 
on his adventures, and soon encountered 
False Report, who joined him and told 
him many e lying tale; bot lady Correc- 
tion, coming apy had False Report soundly 
beaten, and the knight was entertained 
atbercastle, Next day be left, and came 
to a wall where hong a shield and horn, 
On blowing the horn, a three-headed 
monater came forth, with whom he fought, 
and cut off the three heads, called F 
Imagination, and Perjury. He 
pissed the night in the house of lady Com- 
net whoattended tohis wounds: and next 
day he slew a giant fifteen feet high and 
with seven heads. Lastly, he slew the 
monater Malyce, made by enchantment of 
weven metals. His achievements over, he 
2c 





GREAT COMMONER. 408 
Great Co (The), William 
Pus (1759-1806). 


Great Dauphin (The), Louis the 

*,* The “Little Dauphin” was the 
duke of Bourgogne, son of the Great or 
Grand Dauphin. Both died before Louis 


Great Duke (The), the duke of 
Wellington (1769-1852). 
the Great Duke 
Letes bay tot Grest Dubs sation 
Tennysce. 


Great-Head or Canmore, Mal- 
colm III. of Scotland (*, 1057-1093). 


Great-heart (tr), the guide of 
Christiana and her family to the Celestial 
ie). Pilyrin’s Progress, ii. 


Great Magician (The) or The 
Great Magician of the North, sir Walte: 
Scott. So called first by professor John 
Wilson (1771-18382). 


Great Marquis (Zhe), James Gra- 
ham, marquis of Montrose (1612-1650). 
I've told thee how we swept Dundes, 
And the Lindsays’ pride; 
But never have | to:d thee 
How the Great Marquis . 


Great Marquis (The), dom Sebastiano 
Jose de Carvalho, marquis de Pombal, 


of all the Portuguese statesmen 
1699-1782). , 


Great Moralist (The), Dr. Samuel 
Johnson (1709-1784). 


Great Sea (The). The Mediterra- 
nean Sea was so called by the ancients. 


Great Unknown (The), sir Walter 
Scott, who published his Waverley Novels 
anonymously (1771-1832). 


Great Unwashed (7%). The 
artisan class were first so called by sir 
W. Scott. 


Greaves (Sir Launcelot), a well-bred 
young English squire of the George II. 

riod; handsome, virtuous, and en- 
ightened, but crack-brained. He sets 
out, attended by an old sea-captain, to 
detect fraud and treason, abase inso- 
lence, mortify pride, discourage slander, 
disyrace immodesty, and punish ingrati- 

e. Sir Launcclot, in fact, is a modern 
don Quixote, and captain Crow is bis 


GREEK CHURCH. 


Sancho Panza.—T. Smollett, The Adeene 
tures of Sir Launcelot Greaves (1760). 


became editor of the Créfies! Bestew, and 
Know!les led to a 


Grecian Daughter (The), Es- 
phrasia, daughter of Evander a G 
who dethroned Dionysius the Elder, 
became king of 8 - In his old age 
he was himself roned by Dionysius 
the Younger, and confined in a dungeon 
in a rock, where he was saved from star- 
vation by his daughtcr, who fel him with 
“the milk designed for her own babe.” 
Timoleon having made himself master of 
Syracuse, Dionysius accidentally en- 
countered Evander his prisoner, and was 
about to kill him, when Eu rushed 
forwards and stabbed the tyrant to the 
CTs) The Grecian Daughter 


*,* As an historical drama, this plot is 
much the same as if the writer had said 
that James I. (of England) abdicated and 
retired to St. Germain, and when his son 
James II. succeeded to the crown, he was 
beheaded at White Hall; for Murphy 
makes Dionysius the Elder to have been 
dethroned, and going to Corinth to live 
(act i.), and Dionysius the Younger to 
have been slain by the dagger of En- 
phrasia; whereas Dionysius the Elder 
never was dethroncd, but dicd in S 
at the age of 63; and Dionysius the 
Younger was not slain in Syracuse, bet 
being dethroned, went to Corinth, where 
he lived and died in exile. 


Greece ( The two eyes of), Athens and 
Sparta. 


Greedy (Justice), thin as a thread- 
per, always cating and always hungry. 
ie says to sir Giles Overreach (act iii. | 
‘6Oh, I do much honour a chine of } 
Oh, I do reverence a loin of veal!” Asa 
justice, he is most venial—the promise of 
a turkey will buy him, bat the promise 
of a haunch of venison will out-buy him. 
aes A New Way to Pay Old Debts 
1628). 


Greek (A), a pander; a merry 
@ foolish Oreck, a Corinthian, ete., 
mean either pander or harlot. Frequently 
used by Sha 


espeare in Jtmon x Athens 
(167%), and in Henry JV, (1597-8). 
Greek Church (Fathers of the): 
Eusebius, Athana’sius, Basil ‘‘ the Great,” 
Gregory Nazianze’nus, Gregory of Nysaa, 





Q@REEN KNIGHT. 
Star.” In the old romance the combet 





with the ‘“‘Green Knight” was at dawn, 
and with the “Blue Knight” at sunset. 
1878) Notes and Queries (February 16, 


Green Knight (The) » pagan knigh t, 
who demanded : ezon in re oblieed ut 
being overcome rson, Was 0 

resign his claim. — Valentine and Orson 
(fifteenth century). 

Lettuce Lane (St. Law- 
rence, Poultney), a corruption of ‘‘Green 
Laitice ;" so called from the green lattice 
gate which used to open into Cannon 


Green Linnets, the 89th Foot. 
Their facings are green. 

Green Man (Tie). The man who 
used to let off freworks was so called in 
the reign of James I. 

Joun “Kirke {K Jotnaoe) The Basen Champions @ 
Christendom (1617). 
Green Man (The), a gentleman's 
gamexeeper, at one time clad in green. 
But the grevn man sball | pass by ansung?. .. 
A equtres attendant clad in keeper's green. 
Crabbe, Borough (1810). 

Greenhalgh, messenger of the earl 
of Derby.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the 
Peak (time, Charles 11.). 


Greenhorn (¥#7r. Gilbert), an attor- 
nev, in partnership with Mr. Gabriel 
Gninderson. 

Mr. Gernigo Greenhorn, father of Mr. 
Gilbert.—Sir W. Scott, The Antiquary 
(time, Georgs ITT.). 


Greenleaf (Gilbert), the old archer at 
Douglas Castle.—Sir W. Scott, Castle 
Dangerous (time, Henry I.). 


Gregory. ‘St. Gregory's Day,” 
March 2. ws 


Gow runctvals timely, and all that fs gray; 

But euw not the white [;--14, efe.] till St. Gregory’s day. 
T. Tuser, Five Hundred Points of Geod 

fusbundry, xXXvV. 3 (1557). 

Gregory, a fagyot-maker of 
education, first at a charity school, 
then as waiter on an Oxford student, and 
then as the fag of a travelling physician. 
When compelled to act the doctor, he 
says the disease of his patient arises from 
“propria que maribus tribuuntur mas- 
eula. dicas, ut sunt divorum, Mars, 
Bacchus, Apollo, viroruam.” And when 
air Jasper says, ‘“‘I always thought till 
now that the hcart is on the left side and 
the liver on the right,” he replies, ‘‘ Ay, 


405 





GRENVILLE. 


sir, so they were formerly, but-we have 
ail that.” In Molidre’s 

Le Médecin Malgré Lui, Gregory is called 

‘¢ Sganarelie," and all these jokes are in 

at 6.—Henry Fielding, The Mock 


Gregory, father and hangmen in 
the seventeenth century. In the time of 
the Gregorys, hangmen were termed 
‘Seaquires.” In France, executioners were 
termed ‘‘ monsieur,” even to the breaking 
out of the Revolution. 


Gregson ( Widow), Darsie Latimer's 
landlady at Shepherd's Bush.—Sir W. 
Scott, Redgauntiet (time, George ITI.). 

Greqson (Giubert), the messenger of 
father Buonarentura.—Sir W. 
Redjauntiet (time, George III.). 

srry Biatca, but the “lady” prefer 
marry t the laay 
Lacentio, a young man.—Shak 
Taming of the Shrew (1594). 

Grendel, the monster from which 
Beowulf delivered Hrothgar king of 
Denmark. It was half monster, half 
mab, whose haunt was the marshes amo 
‘*a monster race.” Night after night it 
crept stealthily into the palace called 
Heorot, and slew sometimes as many as 
thirty of the inmates. At length Beowalf, 
at the head of a mixed band of warriors, 
went against it and slew it.— Beowulf, an 
Anglo Saxon epic (sixth century). 


Grenville (Sir Richard), the com- 
mander of Zhe é, in the reign of 
queen Elizabeth. Out of his crew, ninety 
were sick on shore, and only a hundred 
able-bodied men remained on board. 
The Revenge was one of the six ships 
under the command of lord Thomas 
Howard. While cruising near the Azores, 
a Spanish fleet of fifty-three ships made 
towards the Enylish, and lord Howard 
sheered off, saying, ‘‘ My ships are out 
of gear, and how can six shipe-of-the- 
line fight with fifty-three?” Sir Richard 
Grenville, however, resolved to stay and 
encounter the foe, and “ship after ship 
the whole night long drew back with her 
dead ; some were sunk, more were shat- 
tered;”” and the brave hundred still 
fought on. Sir Richard was wounded 
and his ship riddled, but his cry was still 
‘* Fight on!” When resistance was no 
longer possible, he cried, ‘* Sink the shi 

master gunner! sink her! Split her fi 
twain, nor let her fail into the hands of 
the foe!” But the Spaniards boarded 














GRIFFIN-FEET. 407 GRIPE. 
QGriffin-feet, the mark by which the | dence. As noone would live with hi 
Desert Fairy was known in all her meta- | he turned mad, was | i 


morphoses.—Comtesse D’Aunoy, Fairy 


Tales (** The Yellow Dwarf,” 1682). 


. Griffiths (Old), steward of the earl 
of Derby.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the 
Fak (time, Charles II.). 


Griffiths (Samuel), London agent of sir 
Arthur Darsie tlet.—Sir W. 
Scott, Redyauntiet (time, George ILI.). 

Grifiet (Sr), knighted by ki 
Arthur at the request of Merlin, who to 
the king that sir Griflet would prove 
‘Sone of the best knights of the world, 

th of arms.”—Sir T. 


up. This infant was the son of the king 
Denmark, and when restored to his 
royal father, the fisherman, laden with 
i ta, built the vi which he 
called after his own name, (ri or 
“ Grim's town.” 
*,* The ancient seal of the town con- 
i ‘‘Gryme” and 


3 


Grim (Giant), a h iant, who tried 
to stop pilgrims on ther way to the 
Celestial City. He was slain by Mr. 
Greatheart.— Bunyan, Pugrim’s Progress, 
ii. (1684). 

Grimalkin, a cat, the spirit of a 
witch. Any witch was permitted to 
assume the body of a cat nine times. 
When the “first Witch” (in Macbeth) 
hears a cat mew, she says, ‘I come, 
Grimalkin” (act i. sc. 1). 

Grime, the partner of Item the 
usurer. It is to Grime that Item appeals 
when he wants to fudge his clients. 
“Can we do so, Mr. Grime?” brings the 
stock answer, ‘‘Quite impossible, Mr. 
Item.”—Holcroft, The Deserted Daughter 
(1784), altered into The Steward. 


Grimes (Peter), the drunken, thievish 
gon of a steady fisherman. He had a 
boy, whom he killed by ill-u and 
two others he made away with; but es- 
eaped conviction through defect of evi- 


in the 
oor-house, confessed his crimes in de- 
hy and died.—Crabbe, Borough, xxii. 


Marlborough) Sir Wo Boots, Kendearee 
(time, Elizabeth). 


Grimwig, an irascible old gentle- 
man, who hid a very kind heart under a 
rough exterior. He was Mr. Brownlow’s 
Brest friend, and was alwa i 

imself y to “eat his ” if he 
was mistaken on any point on which he 
Prise (1887 pPinion. Dickens, Oliver 


Grinderson (Mr. : 
ef Mr. Greeatona. Thee are he ation 
meys who press sir Arthor Wardour for 
the payment of debtsa.—Sir W. Scott, 


The Antiquary (time, George III.). 


Grip, the clever raven of Barna 
Rudge. During the Gordon riots 
learnt the cry of “No Po ” Other 
of its phrases were? Dp m a devil!” 
‘Never say die!” olly, put the 


kettle on!” etc.—C, Dickens, 
Rudge (1841). 

Gripe (1 syl.), a scrivener, husband 
of C ane but with a tendre for Ara- 
minta the wife of his friend Moneytrap. 
He is a miserly, money-loving, pi 
headed hunks, but is duped out of £8 
by his foolish liking for his neighboure 
wife.—Sir John Vanbrugh, Con- 
federacy (1695). 


Gripe (1 syl.), the English name of 
Géronte, in Otway's version of Molitre’s 
comedy of Les Fuurberies de Scapin. His 
daughter, called in French Hyacinthe, is 
called * Clara,” and his son Leandre is 

nglicized into ‘‘ Leander.”—Th. Otway, 
The Clwats of Scapin. ° 


Gripe (Sir Francis), a man of 
ardian of Miranda an heiress, 
ather of Charles. He wants to m 

his ward for the sake of her money, and 
as she cannot obtain her property withont 
his consent to her marriage, she pretends 
to be in love with him, and even fixes the 
day of espousals. ‘‘Gardy,” quite secure 
that he is the man of her choice, gives 
his consent to her marriage, and 
marries sir George Airy, a man of %, 
The old man la at sir 

he fancies he is duping, but he 





GROOM. 409 


(Scali father (1484-1558), son 
(1840-16095, critics and humanists.) 

Groom (Squire), ‘‘a downright, 
Enyliah, Newmarket, stable-bred gen- 
tleman-jockey, who, having ruined bis 
finances 0 ms, cocks, an 
horses . . Y thin 3 te retrieve his affairs 
by a matrimonial alliance with a City 
fortune ” (canto i. 1). i 
1 Charlotte Goodchild § at 
su i e report to be true e 
has’ lost” her money, he says to her 


i! 


ply. “ , 1° cried Macklin; 
Pols that?" Mi » oiled Lewes.“ 
my nonessnee.” ~ But,” sald Macklin, eave). “ 

better than yours,"—-J. 0” 


& 

2 

ae 
“= 


Grosvenor [Grove’.nr] _ 8, 
London. So called becayse it is built 


a young woman, charged with dishonour, 
entered this grotto, and the reed gave 
forth musical sounds, she was declared to 
be a pure virgin; but if it gave forth 
hideous noises, sie was denounced and 
never scen more. Corinna put the grotto 
to the test, at the desire of Glaucon of 
Lesbos, and was never seen again by the 
eye of man.—E. Bulwer Lytton, Jules 
of Miletus, iii. (See Cuastiry, for other 
tests.) 

Grouse’s Day (Saint), the 12th of 
August. 
oe cheat ah ema! Ss Pea 
Revenge“). 

Groveby (0d), of Gloomstock Hall, 
aged 65. He is the uncle of sir Ha 
Groveby. Brusque, hasty, self-willed, 
but kind-hearted. 

Sir Harry Groveby, nephew of old 


Groveby, engaged to Maria ‘tthe maid 
of the ."—J. Burgoyne, The Maid of 
the Oaks. 


Groves (Jem), landlord of the Valiant 
Soldier, to which xe attached a | a 
skittle-ground.” — ickens, Zhe 
Ola Curiosity Shop, xxix. (1840). 
18 





GRUEBY. 


Grub (Jonathan), a stock-broker, 
weighted with the three plagues of life— 
a wife, a handsome marri le daugh- 
ter, and £100,000 in the Funds, “any 
one of which is enough to drive a man 
mad ; but all three to be attended to at 
once is too much.” 

Mrs. Grub, a wealthy City wo who 
has moved from the east to the ion- 
able west quarter of London, and has 
abandoned merchants and tradespeople 
for the gentry. 

Emily Grub, called Milly, the hand- 
some daughter of Jonathan. She marries 
captain Bevil of the Guards.—O’Brien, 


Grub Street, near Moorfields, Lon- 
don, once famous for literary hwks and 
inferior literary publications. It is now 
called Milton Street. No compliment to 
our great epic poet. 

Fd sooner ballads write and Grub Street bye, 

*,* The connection between Grub 
Street literature and Milton is not ap- 
parent. However, as Pindar, Hesiod, 

lutarch, etc., were Boso’tians, so Foxe 
the martyrologist, and Speed the his- 
torian, resided in Grub Street. 

Grub’binol, a shepherd who sings 
with Bumkinet a dirge on the death of 
Blouzelinda. 


Thus wailed the louts in melancholy straia, 
Till bonny Susan across the ; 
lam, in apron 
to house forced the willing maid; 
Tn ale and kisses they forgot cares, 
Susan Biousslinds’s loss 


Gay, Pastoral, v. 01714). 
(An imitation of Virgil’s Kel, v. 
“¢ Daphnis.”) ren 
Gru'dar and Bras’solis. Cairbar 
and Grudar both strove for a tted 
bull ‘that lowed on Golbun H ” in 
Ulster. Each claimed it as his own, and 
at length fought, when Grudar fell. 
Cairbar took the shield of Grudar to 
Brassolis, and said to her, “Fix it on 
high within my hall; ‘tis the armour of 
my foe;” but the maiden, “ distracted, 
flew to the spot, where she found the 
youth in his blood,” and died. 
ew pla herent soe pian. Stately was Greder os 
Grueby (John), servant to lord 
George Gordon. An honest fellow, who 
remained faithful to his master to the 
bitter end. He twice saved Haredale’s 
life; and, although living under lord 
Gordon and loving him, detested the 
crimes into which his master was be- 





GUARINI. 411 





Qua'rini (PAuip), the ‘squire of sir 
H de Lacy.—Sit W. "hoot, The 
Bebrothed (time, Henry IT.). 

Guari’nos (Admiral), one of Char- 
lemagne’s paladins, taken captive at 
Roncesvallés. He fell to the lot of 
Mario’tés, a Moslem, who offcred him 
his daughter in marriage if he would 
become a disciple of tne Arabian pro- 
phet. Guarinos refused, and was ept 
in a dungeon for seven years, when he 
was liberated, that he might take part 
in a joust. The admiral then stabbed 
the Moor to his heart, and, vaulting on 
his grey horse Treb’ozond, esca to 
France. 


Gu’drun, a lady married to Sigurd 
by the magical arts of her mother; and 
on the death of Sigurd to Atli (Aétila), 
whom she hated for his fierce cruelty, 
and murdered. She then cast h 
into the and the waves bore her to 
the castle of king Jonakun, who became 
her third husband.—Zudda of S&mund 
Sigfusson (1130). 

Gu'drun, a model of heroic fortitude 
and pious resignation. She was the 

hter of kiug Hettel (Attila), and 

the betrothed of Herwig king of Heli- 
land, but was carried off by Harmuth 
ing of Norway, who killed Hettel. As 
she refused to marry Harmuth, he put 
her to all sorts of menial work. One 
day, Herwig appeared with an army, and 
having gained a decisive victory, married 
Gudrun, and at her intercession pardoned 


Harmuth the cause of her t misery 
A Aor th Saran Poem (thirteenth con- 
tury). 


Gud’yill (Old Jokn), butler to lady 
Bellenden.—Sir W. Scott, Old Mortality 
(tame, Charles II.). 


Quelph’o (8 sy/.), son of Actius IV. 
marquis d'Este and of Cunigunda (a 
German). Guelpho was the uncle of 
Rinaldo, and next in command to God- 
frey. He led an army of 5000 men from 
Carynthia, in Germany, to the siege of 
Jerusalem, but most of them were cut 
off by the Persians. Guelpho was noted 
for his broad shoulders and ample chest. 
erusalem Delivered, iii. (1575). 


—Tasao, J 


Guen‘dolen (3 sy/.), a fairy whose 
mother was a human being. King Arthur 
fell in love with her, and she became the 
mother of (:yneth. When Arthur de- 
gested the frail fair one, she offered him 
@ parting cup; but as he took it in his 





GUENEVRA. 
hand, a drop of the liquor fell 





8 
E | 


horse and burnt it so severely that us 
‘leapt twenty feet high,” ran and 
ground, whereupon ft set fire ta the grass 
ground, whereupon it set to 

and consumed the fairy palace. ‘As for 
Guendolen, she was never seen after- 
wards.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Bridal of 


Triermain, i. 2 (“ Lyulph’s Tale,” 1818). 
Guendole’na, 
(eldest son of 


mareh Locrin, who’ © was 
against in, w was 
killed by the shot of an arrow.” 
doleena now assumed the reins of govers- 
sian wth Sau “ee nog 
tri er 
Sabre into the Severn, which was called 
Sabri‘na or Sabren from that dey. 
Geoffrey, British History, ii. 4, 5 (11 
Guenever or Guinever, a corrupt 
form of Guanhuma’ra (4 syl.), daughter 
of king Leodegrance of the land 
Camelyard. She was the most beautiful 
of women, was the wife of king Arthur, 
but entertained a criminal attachment to 
sir Launcelot du Lac. Respecting tne 
latter part of the queen’s history, the 
greatest diversity occurs. Thus, Geoffrey 
says: 


& 


Another version is, that Arthur, being 
informed of the adulterous conduct o 
Launcelot, went with an army to Ben- 
wick (Brittany), to punish him. 
Mordred (his son by is own sister), left 
as nt, usurped the crown, proclaimed 
that Arthur was dead, and tried to m 
Guenever the queen ; but she shut h 


BE 


up in the Tower of London, resolved to 
die rather than m e usu . 
When she heard of the death of ur 


she ‘stole away” to Almesbury, “and 
there she let make herself a nun, and 
wore white cloaths and black.” And there 
lived she ‘‘in fasting, prayers, and alms- 
deeds, that all marvelled at her virtuous 
life."—Sir T. Malory, History of Prinos 
Arthur, iii. 161-170 (1470). 

*,* For Tennyson's aceount, see Gui- 
NEVERE. 


Guene’vra (8 syl.), wife of Kes 








GULBEY AZ, 





of robbers who levied black mail in the 
mountainous districta of Catalonia. He 
is etrogueed by Cervantes in his tale of 


Guinea. (Adventures of a), a novel by 
Charles Johnstone (1761). A guinea, as 
it passes into different hands, is the his- 
torian of the follies and vices of its 
master for the time being; and thus a 
series of scenes and personages are made 
to pase before the reader, somewhat in 
the same manner as in che Devil upon 
Two Sticks and in The Chinese Tales, 


Guinea-hen, a fille de joie, a word 
of contempt and acta for a woman. 


Ere 1 wold. Srene' wud Be. the ton wy 
@rinen-hen, { would chauige my — 
—Ghsakeyears, Ocbelia, act Lec. 9 (DOLL 


Guines-pig (A), a sehaia of 
sufficient name to form a bait, who 
allows himself to be put on a directors’ 
list for the guinea and lunch which the 
board provides.—Cily Slany. 


Guin'evere (3 ay/.). So Tennyson 
Po. the name of Arthur's queen in his 

iia. He tells us of the liaison be- 
tween her and ‘sir Lancelot,” and says 
that Modred, having discovered this 
familiarity, f brought bis creatures to 
the basement of the tower for testimony,” 
Sir Lancelot flung the fellow to the 
ground, and instantly took to horse; 
while Guinevere fled to the nunnery at 
Almesbury. Here the king took leave 
of her; and when the abbess died, the 
queen was appointed her successor, and 
remained hend of the establishment for 
three years, when she also died. 

*," lt will be seen that Tennyson 
departa from the #ritish History by 
Geoffrey, and the /fwlury of Pri 
Arthur aa edited by sir T. Malory, (See 
GUESEVEK.) 


Guiomar, mother of the vain- 
glorious Duar'te.—Leaumont and Fiet- 
cher, Tie Custum of the Country (1647), 


Guiscardo, the ‘squire, but previously 
the paye, of ‘Tancre king of Salerno. 
Sigismunda, the king's daughter, loved 


him, and clandestinely married him, When | 


Tancred discovered it, he ordered the young 


| below. 





man to be waylaid and strangled. He 
then went to his daughter's chamber, 
and reproved her for loving a base-born 
slave.” Sigismunda boldly defended 
her choice, but next day received a human 
pi Bry a goiden eet het loze no 
prophet to her w pened, 
and she drank a draught of poison. ae 
father entered just in time to hear her 
dying request that she and Guiscardo 
might be buried in the sametomb. The 
royal father 


Guise (Henri de Lorraine, duo de) 
comnece? the Massacre of Hartholomew 
by the assassination of admiral Coligny 

Co.leen'.ye]. Being forbidden to enter 
is, by order of Henri IJII., he dis- 


| obeyed the injunction, and was mur- 


dered (1550-1588), 

*,* Henri de Guise has furnished the 
subj ect of several t ies. In Anglish 

ave Guise or the Massacre of Fra 

ie Jolin Webster (1620); The Duke o 
(uise, by Dryden and Lee. In F 
we have Etats de Flois (the Death of 
Guise), by Francois Raynouard (1814), 


Guis‘la (2 sy/.), sister of Ra 
love with Numac’ian a renegad (khe 
inherited her mother's leprota: taint.” 
Brought back to her brother's house by 
Adosinda, she retumed to the Moor, 
“cursing the meddling spirit that in- 
terfered with her most shameless love.” 
image Roderich, Last of the Goths 
Isl 


Gui'zor (2 syl.), groom of the Saracen 


Pollenté. His “scalp wos bare, betray 
ing bis state of bond: ay " [lis office was 
to keep the bridge on Pollenté's territory, 


and to allow no one to pass without pay- 
ing “the passaye-penny.” This bri 
was full of trap-doors, through whi 
travellers were apt to fall into the river 
When Golsoe demanded toll of 
sir Artégal, the knight ve him a 
a nani blew any tee. : Le! there's my 
hire;"" and the villain dropped te 
dead. — Spenser, fugry Queen, v. 
(1596). 

*,* ()pton conjectures that ‘‘Guizor® 
is intended for the duc de guise, and his 
master “ |’ollenté™ for Charles LX. of 
France, notorious both for the St. Bare 


| tholomew Massacre. 


Gulbey'az, the sultana. Having 
seen Juan amongst Lambro's captives, 





° qnuiewe ewroeew- 


GUPPY. 


ebstreperously that the bridegroom had 
i to apply to his friend for assistance. 
ied contrived to get sion of 
her ring and girdle, after which she 
became s submissive wife. Ginther, 
with baze ingratituce, was privy to the 
murder of his friend, aud wss himself 
slain in the dungeon of Etzel by his 
sister Kriemhild.— The Nibelungen hed. 
*,* In history, Gfnther is called 
*Gtintacher,” and Etzel “ Attila.” 
Gup'py Mr.). clerk. in the office of 
Kenge an toy. A weak, common- 
place youth, who has the conceit to 
see to Esther Sammersen, the ward 
pr Cbancery.—C. Dickens, Bleak House 
(18538). 


G tus, accoriing to Drayton, 
son of Inus. This is a mistake, as 
Gu , or rather Gurgustius, was son 


of Rivallo; and the son of Bolinus was 
Garginnt Brabtruc. The names given by 
Geoffrey, in his British History, ran thus: 
Leir ( Zeur), Cunedag his grandson, Rivallo 
his son, Gurgustius his son, Sisillivs his 
son, Jago nephew of Gurgustius, Kinrosre 
son of Sisillius, then Gorbogud. Here the 
line is broken, and the new dynast 
begins with Molmutius of Cornwal 
then his son Belinus, who was succeeded 
by his son Gurgiunt Brabtruc, whose son 
and successor was Guithelin, called by 
Drayton ‘‘Guynteline.”—Geoffrey, British 
History, ii., ui. (1142). 

Se TL pe 

soon 
To his beir. 
M. Drayton, Polgeldion, vill. (161%). 

Gurney (Gilbert), the hero and title 
of a novel by Theodore Hook. This 
novel is a spiced autobiography of the 
author himself (1835). 


Gurney (Thomas), shorthand writer, 
and author of a work on the subject, 
ealled Brachyjraphy (1705-1770). 


Hf you would like to see the whole proceetings . . . 
The best is that in shorthand ta‘en by Gurney, 


Who 0 Madrid 0 Pe ee eee yes nish 

Gurth, the swine-herd and thrall 
of Cedric of Rotherwood.—Sir W. Scott, 
Icanhoe (time, Richard 1.). 

Gurton (Gammer), the heroine of an 
old Enyliah comedy. The plot tarns 
wpon the loss of a needle by Gaminer 
Gurton, and its subsecquent discovery 
sticking in the breeches of her man 
Hodye.—Mr. J. S. Master of Arts (1561). 

Guse Gibbie, a balf-witted lad in 
the service of lady Bellenden.—Sir W. 
Beott, Ord Mortality (time, Charles II.). 





415 


GUY EARL OF WARWICK. 
Gushington (Angelina), the nem ds 
plune of lady Dufferin. h 
Gustavus ITI. used to nay there were 
two things he held in equal abhorrence— 
the German language and tobacco. 


Gusta’vus Vasa (1496-1560), hav- 
made his from Denmark 


ing escape from 

where he had been treacherously carried 
captive, worked as a common labourer 
for a time in the cop Thines of Dale- 
carlia ele. -ya|; bat the tyranny 
of Christian IT. of Peninark induced the 
Dalecarlians to revolt, and Gustavus was 
ehosen their leader. The rebels made 
themselves masters of Stockholm ; Chris- 
lian abdicated, and 
became an in dent kingdom.—H. 
Brooke, Gustavus Vasa (1780). 


Gus'ter, the Snagsbys’ maid-of-all- 
work. <A pour, overworked 
gee. to fits.--<.. Dickens, Bleak House 

Gusto Picaresco (“taste for rogue- 
ry”). Inromanceof this school the Span- 
iards especially exoel, as don Diego de 
Mondo’sa’s Lazurillo de Tormes (1553); 
Mateo. Aleman’s Guzman d'Alfarache 
(1599); Quevedo’s Gran Tacano, etc. 

Guthrie (John), one of the archers 


of the Scottish guard in the employ of 
Louis XI.—Sir W. Scott, Quentin Dur 
ward (time, Edward IV.). 

Gutter Lane, London, a corrup- 
tion of Guthurun Lane; so called from a 
Mr. Guthurun or Guthrum, who * 
sessed the chief property therein.” -—Stow, 
Survey of London (1598). 

Gutter Lyrist (The), Robert 
Williams Buchanan ; so called from his 
poems on the loves of costermongers and 
their wenches (1841- ). 


Guy (Zhomas), the miser and philen- 
thropist. He amassed an immense fortune 
in 1720 by speculations in South Ses 
stock, and gave £238,292 to found and 
endow Guy's Hospital (1644-1724). 


knight tle proposed marriage to Dbl 
t. He pro iage to 

or Phillis, who refused to listen to his 
suit till he had distinguished himself 
knightly deeds. He first rescued B 
daughter of the emperor of Germany. 
then fought against the ns, and 
slew the doughty Coldran, Elmage king 
of Tyre, and the Soldan himself. Then, 
returning to England, he was acce by 
Phelis and married ber. In forty days he 
returned to the Holy Land, when he 





GWYNNE. 





Gwynne (Nell), one of the favourites 
of Charles II. She was an actress, bat 
in her palmy days was noted for her 
many works of benevolence and kindness 
of heart. The last words of king Charles 
were, ‘* Don't let poor Nelly starve 1"—Sir 
W. Scott, Peveril of Peak (time, 
Charles II.). 


Gyas and Cloan’thus, two com- 
penions of £ne’as, generally mentioned 

gether as “‘ fortis Gyas fortisque Cloan- 
thus.” The phrase has become prover- 
bial for two very similar characters.— 
Virgil, Ane. 

The“ Gyas” and the “ strong Cloanthus” are les 
Gistinguished the poct than the struug Percival aud 
the strong Osbaldistones were by outward 
Str W. Scott. 

G (2 syl.), one of the Titans. 
We had fifty heads and a hundred hands. 


Gyges, a king of Lydia, of whom Apollo 
eaid he deemed the poor Arcadian Ag'laos 
more happy than the king Gyges, who 
was proverbial fur his wealth. 


Gyges (2 syl.), who dethroned Can- 
daulés (3 syl.) king of Lydia, and married 
Nyssia the young widow. Herodotos 
eays that Candaulés showed Gyges the 

ueen in her bath, and the queen, in- 

dignant at this impropriety, induced 
Gvges to kill the king and marry her 
(bk. i. 8). He reigned B.c. 716-678. 

Gyqes's Ring rendered the wearer in- 
visible. Plato says that Gyges found the 
ring in the flanks of a brazen horse, and 
was enabled by this talisman to enter the 
king's chamber unseen, and murder him. 

Why dif you think that you had Gyges’ ring. 
Or the herb [ fern seed) thut gives invisibility? 
Beaumontand Fletcher, Jair Muid uf the /nn, L. 1 (1647). 

Gynec’ium, the apartment in which 
the Anglo-Saxon women lived.—Fos- 
broke, Antiquities, ii. 570 (1824). 

Gyneth, natural daughter of Guen- 
délen and king Arthur, The king 
promised to give her in marriage to 
the bravest knight in a tournament in 
which the warder was given to her to 
drop when she pleased. The haughty 
beauty saw twenty knights fall, among 
whom was Vanoc, son of Merlin. Im- 
mediately Vanoc fell, Merlin rose, put 
an end to the jousts, and caused Gyneth 
to fall into a trance, from which she was 
never to wake till her hand was claimed 
in marriage by some knight as brave as 
those who had fallen in the tournament, 
After the lapse of 500 years, De Vaux 
undertook to break tlc spell, and had to 
evercome four temptations, viz., fear, 


417 








avarice, pleasure, and ambition. Ha 
succceded in these encounters, G 
awoke and became his bride.—Sir W. 
Scott, Bridul of Triermain (1818). 


Gyp, the college servant of Blushing- 
ton, who stole his tea and sugar, candles, 
and soon. After Blushington came into 
his fortune, he made Gyp his chief 
domestic and private secretary.—W. T. 
Moncrieff, The Bashful Man, 


H. 


H. B., the initials adopted by Mr. 
Doyle, father of Richard Doyle, in his 
Reform Caricatures (1830). 


H. U. (hard up), an H. U. member 
of socicty. 


Hackburn (Simon of), a frierd of 
Hobbie Elliott, farmer at the Heugh-foot. 
—Sir W. Scott, The Black Dwarf (time, 


Anne). 


Hackum (Captain), a thick-headed 
bully of Alsatia, once a sergeant in 
Flanders. He deserted his colours, fied 
to England, took refuge in Alsatia, and 
asstinied the title of captain.—Shadwell, 
Squire of Alsatia (1688). 

Had I a Heart for Falsehood 
oe — Sheridan, The Duenna 

‘ ° 


Hadad, one of the six Wise Men of 
the East led by the guiding star to Jesus. 
He left his beloved consort, fairest of the 
daught-ra of Bethu’rim. At his decease 
she shed no tear, yet was her love ex- 
ceeding that of mortals.—Klopetock, Zhe 
Messiah, v. (1771). 

Had’away (Jack), a former neigh- 
bour of Nanty Ewart the smuggler- 
captain. — Sir W. tt, Redyauntlet 
(time, George III.). 

Ha’des (2 syi.), the god of the un- 
geen world; also applied to the grave, of 
the abode of de spirits. . 

*,* In the Apostles’ Creed, the plrass 








HAIMON. 
the revelry, the old pirate returned, and 
ordered don Juan ti be seized and sold 
asa slave. Haidee broke a blood-vessel 
from grief and fright, and, refusing to 
take any nourishment, died.—Byron, 
Juan, ii. 118; iii., iv. (1819, 1821). 
pores with so sncsh beauty and lle of de cription as tbat 
which narrates the loves of Juan and Haides.—Sir Eyger- 


Haimon (The Four Sons of), the 
title of a minnesong in the degeneracy 
of that tic school, which rose in Ger- 
many with the house of Hvhenstaufen, 
and went out in the .middle of the 
*hirteenth century. 

Hair. Every three days, when Cor’- 
eina combed the hair of Fairstar and her 
two brothers, ‘“‘a great many valuable 
jewels were combed out, which she sold 
at thenearest town.”"—Comtesse D’Aunoy, 
Fairy Tales (“‘ Princess Fairstar,” 1682). 


Hair. Mrs. Astley, an actress of the 


last century, wire of ‘‘Old Astley,” could | 


stand up and cover her feet with her 
fiaxen hair. 
She had such fuxuriant hair that she could stand upright 


end it covered her to her feet like aveill. She was very 
seal Si ag boelipraamllggs oem iar onl gamma sett by fire 
ving befallen them 


. She resulved ever after to playina | 


used, therefore, to wind this immense quantity of 
caxon, 


hall does to its body.—Philip Astley (1742-1814). 


Mdlle. Bois de Chéne, exhibited in 
London in 1852-3, had a most profuse 
head of hair, and also a strong black 
beard, large whiskers, and thick hair on 
her arms and legs. 

Charles X}1. had in his army a woman 
whose beard was a yard and a half long. 
She was taken prisoner at the battle of 
aly a and presented to the czar in 
Johann Mayo, the German painter, had 
a beard which touched the ground when 
he stood up. 

Master George Killingworthe, in the 
eourt of Ivan ‘“‘the Terrible” of Russia, 
had a beard five fect two inches long. It 
was thick, broad, and of a yellowish hae. 
—Hakluyt (1589). 


419 





HAKIM., 


Hair Cut Of It was id by the 
Grecks and Romans that life would not 
quit the body of a devoted victim Gill 4 
lock of hair had first been cut from the 
head of the victim and given to Proger- 
pine. Thus, when Alcestis was about to 
die as a voluntary sacrifice for the life of 
her husband, Than‘atos first cut off a lock 
of her hair for the queen of the infernals, 
When Dido immolated herself, she could 





| not die till Iris had cut off one of her 


yellow locks for the same purpose.—Vir- 
gil, Acne, iv. 693-705. 

[ria cut the yellow hale of una Nido, aod broke iby 
charm .—d, W Holmen, Awlecres a the Sremijfas Tuhie, 


Hair Sign of Rank. 

The Parthians and ancient Persians of 
high rank wore long flowing hair. 

Homer speaks of “the long-haired 
Greeks" by way of honourable distinction. 
Subsequently the Athenian cavalry wore 
long hair, and all Lacedwmonian soldiers 
did the same. 

The Gauls considered long hair a notable 
honour, for which reason Julius Cesar 
obliged them to cut off their hair in 
token of submission. 

The Franks and ancient Germans con- 
sidered long hair a mark of noble birth. 
Hence Clodion the Frank was called “* The 
Long-Ilaired,” and his successors are 
spoken of as les rors chevelures. 

The Goths looked on long hair as a 
mark of honour, and short hair as a mark 
of thraldom. 

_ For many centuries long hair was in 
France the distimetive mark of kings and 
nobles, 


Haiz'um (3 syl.), the horse on which 
the archangel Gabriel rode when he Jed 
a squadron of 3000 angels against the 
Koreishites (3 sy/.) in the famous battle 
of Bedr, 


Hakem’ or Hakeem, chief of the 
Druses, who resides at Deir-cl-Kamar. 
The first hakem was the third Fatimite 
caliph, called B’amr-cllah, who professed 
to be incarnate deity and the last prophet 
who had personal communication between 
Ged and man, He was slain on mount 
Mokattam, near Cairo (Egypt). 

Hakem the bhalif vanlshel ors. 
In whet em! death to uninsiroeted open, 
On red Mokatiaon') verge. 
Roberi Browning, Tie Detern of ths Dre, L 


Hakim (Advn/ec ef), Saladin in the 
disguise of a physician. He visited 
Richard Cour de Lion in sickness; gave 
him a medicine in which the “ talisman” 


had been dipped, and the sick king 








HAMET. 421 





was raised to the throne of his forefathers. 
—Murphy, The Orphan of China, 


Hamet, one of the black slaves of sir 
Brian de Bois Guilbert preceptor of the 
Knights Templars.—Sir W. Scott, Jvan- 
hoe (time, Ri I.). 


Hamet (The Cid) or Tre Crp Hamer 
BENENGEL’!, the hypothetical Moorish 
chronicler who is fabled by Cervantés to 
have written the adventures of ‘don 
Quixute.” 

Q Nature's noblest gift. my gray goose aalll! . ce 


Our task complete, amet's, shall be 
Byron, English Bards and Scvtch Neviewers (1800). 
The Cid Hamet, addreming himself to his pen, 
enya, ‘‘ And now, my slender quill, whether ski‘fully cut 
er otherwise, bere from this rack, sucpended by a wire, 
abak thou peacefully live w di-tant times, unles the hand 
bate 


of some rash whan disturb thy repuse by taking thee 
down and pro thee."—Cervantes, Den (Guisete 
Gast chap., 1615). 


Hamilton (Lady Emily), sister of 
lord Evandale.—Sir W. Scott, Old Mor- 
tality (time, Charles II.). 


Hamiltrude (3 sy/.), a poor French- 


woman, the first of Charlemagne's nine 
wives. She bore him several children. 
neck was tinged with a delicate nee... . Her 


Her 
Becks were bound abuut her temples with guid and te. 


Her dres was looped up with ruby chop. He 
eorunet and ber purple rules gave ber an als of surpassing 
majenty.—L Epine, Croyucmiaine, 

Hamlet, prince of Denmark, a man 
of mind but not of action; nephew of 
Claudius the reixning king, whe had 
married the widuwed queen. l.amlet 
loved Ophelia, daughter of Polo’nius the 
lord chamberlain; but fecling it to be 
his duty to revenge his father's murder, 
he abandoned the idea of marriage, and 
treated Ophelia so strangely, that she 
went mad, and, gathering flowers from 
@ brook, fell into the water and was 
drowned. While wasting his enerzy in 
speculation, Hamlet accepted a challenge 
from Laertes of a friendly contest with 
foils ; but Laertes used a poisoned rapier, 
with which he stabbed the young prince. 
A scufile ensued, in which the combatants 
changed weapons, and Laertes being 
stabbed, both died.—Shakespeare, Lamlet 
1596). 
( ‘The whole play,” says Schlegel, ‘is 
intended to show that calculating con- 
sideration which exhausts... the power 
of action.” Goethe is of the same opinion, 
and zays that ‘* Hamict isa noble nature, 
without the strenvth of nerve which forms 
ahero. He sinks beneath a burden which 
he cannot bear, and cannot [nwhe up his 
sacri “7 cast aside.” 

*.* The best actors of ‘ Hamlet” have 
been Thomas LUetterton (1635-1710), 





HAMPDEN. 
Robert Wilks (1670-1782), Garrick 
(1716-1779), John Henderson (1747- 


1785), J. P. Kemble (1757-1823), and W. 
H. Betty (1792-1874). Next to these, C. 
Kemble (1775-1854), C. M. Young (ti7e~ 
1856), Edmund Kean (1787-1833), Henry 
Irving (1810 )s ete 

«” Inthe History of Hamblet, Hamlet's 
father is called ‘ Hocccndille.” 


Hammer (The), Judas Asamcneus, 
surnamed Jf. “the hammer 
(B.c. 166-136). 

Charles Martel (689-741). 

On p:¢tend qu'on Jui donna le surnem de Martel 

aa Aralt_écrast comme avec un marten les 
envahi ia France Bouillet 

Hammer and Sco of Eng- 
land, sir William Wallace 1270-i80e, 

Hammer of Heretics. 

1. Pizrnre pD'AILzy, president of the 
council which condemned John Huss 
(1350-1425). 

2. St. Avaustixg, ‘the pillar of 
truth and hammer of heresies” (895- 
43U).— Hakewell. 

3. JoHN Farrer. So called from the 
title of one of his works, Mfalicus Heretic- 
orum (1470-1541). 


Hammer of Scotland, Edward I. 
His son inscribed on his tomb: “‘ Edwardus 
Longus Scotorum Malleus hic est” (1239, 
1272-1307). 

Hammerlein (Claus), the smith, one 
of the insurgents at Litge.—Sir W. Scott, 
Quentin Durward (time, Edward IV.). 


Hamond, captain of the guard of 
Rollo (‘* the bloody brother” of Otto, and 
duke of Normandy). He stabs the duke, 
and Rollo stabs the captain ; so that they 
kill each other.— Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Bivody Brother (1639). 

Hampden (John) was bom in 
London, but after his marriage lived as a 
country squire. He was imprisoned in 
the gate-house for refusing to pay a tax 
called ship-money, imposed without the 
authority of parliament. The case was 
tried in the Exchequer Chamber, in 1687, 
and given against him. He threw him- 
self heart and soul into the business 
of the Long Parliament, and commanded 
a troop in the parliamentary army. Ia 
1648 he fell in an encounter with prince 
Rupert; but he has ever been honoured 
as a patriot, and the defender of the rights 
of the people (1594-1643). 


Xha!!| Hampden no more, when suffering Fresdem entig ° 
ter Fate, and (riumpb as be tails? 
Campbell, Pieusures of Bape, L UTR 





HANS OF ICELAND. 


428 





HARDCASTLE. 





killed at Boston.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of 


the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Hans of Iceland, a novel by 
Victor Hogo (1824). Hans is a atern 
savage, Northern monster, ghastly and 
fascinating. 

Hans von ppack [Fir pak), i.e. 
Jack of Rippach gang id a me 
near Feel This Hans von Ripoach 
is a ** Mons. en lang: ee that is, 

asked for, who does not exist. 
The “joke” is to ring a house up at 
some unseasonable hour, and ask for 


Herr Hans von Kippach or Mons. Nong- 


tongpas. 


Hanson (Neil), a soldier in —, 
eastle of Garde Doloureuse. 
Beott, The Betrothed (time, Henry Ji.}, 


Hanswurst, the “ Jack Padding” of 
old German comedy, but almost anni- 
hilated by Gottached,in the middle of the 
eighteenth century. He was clumsy, 


huge in person, an immense re | 


fond of vulgar practical jokes 
*,.* The French * Jean Potage,” the 
Italian Macaroni,” and the Dutch 
“ Pickel Herrioge," were similar charac- 
ters. 


Hapmouche (2 syl.), te. ‘fly- 
catcher," the giant who first hit upon 
the plan of smeking pork and neats’ 
tongues.—Rabelais, /antuyruel, ii. 1. 


supplies St. Mary's Convent. 

Mysie Happer, the niuller's danghter. 
Afterwards, 1 in disvuise, she acts as the 
page of sir Piercie Shafton, whom she 


marries.—Sir W. Scott, Zia Monastery | 


(time, Elizabeth). 


Happuck, s magician, brother of 
Ulin there enchantress, lle was thei instiga- 
tor of rebellion, and intended to kill the 
sultan Misnar at a review, but Misnar 
had given orders to a body of archers to 
shoot the man who was left standing 
when the rest of the soldiers fell pros- 
trate in adoration. Misnar went to the 
review, and commanded the army to give 
thanks to Allah for their victory, when 
all fell prostrate except Happuck, who 
was thus detected, and instantly de- 
speecnet: —Sir C. Morell [ James Hidley], 

thea of the Geni (*‘The Enchanter 


be Bi , 1751). 


prevalled aralost Ulin and Bay Olle 
bbe le red Dara * call wo 
ty ab pose dant hctulatar iene 


wil. azsil 


| country. 
} bank was not robbed at all, but Tom 
| merely removed the money to another 
Happer or Hob, the miller who © 





Ha: Vall The), in the king: 
dom of Amhara, it Su here the sonal 
rinces and princesses of Abyssinia lived. 
t was surrounded by high mountains, 
and was accessible only by one 


| under a cave. This spot was concealed 


by woods and closed by iron gates.—Dr. 
Johnson, Hasselas 1788). 


tant of Gal” a descendant of Anak the 
giant of Gath. He went to mock Sam- 
son in rg A but durst not venture 
within his —Milton, Samson 
Ayonistes 1683) 


Har’bothel (Mester Fabian), the 
Liner the of “1 Aymer de Valence.—2ir W. 


Scott, Castl (time, Henry I.). 


Hard aI a novel by C. Dickens 
(1854), dramatized in 1867 under the title 
of Under the Earth or The Sons of Toil, 
Bounderby, a street arab, raised himself 
to banker and cotton prince, When 55 
paar of age, he p — marringe to 

visa, dauchter of Thomas Gradgrind, 
Fay., J.P.,and was accepted. One night, 
the bank was robbed of £150, and Boun- 
derby believed Stephen Black pool to be 
the thief, because he had dismissed him, 
being obnoxious to the mill hands ; but 
the culprit was Tom Gradgrind, the 
banker's brother-in-law, who lay 
for a while, and then escaped out of the 
In the dramatized version, the 


drawer for safe custody. 
Hardcastle (Sjuire), a jovial, rosy, 
of the 


| but hospitable country caylee 


old school. He loves to tell hia long- 
winded stories about prince Eugene 
and the duke of Marlborough. He say 
‘T love everything that's dd— a 
friends, old times, old manners, old 
books, old wine” (act i. 1), and he might 
have added, “old stories. 

Mrs. Iurdcastle, a very ‘genteel ” 
lady indeed. Mr. Hardcastle is her 
second husband, and Tony Lumpkin her 
son by her former husband. She is 
fond of genteel" society, and the last 
fashions. Sirs. Hardcastle says, “There's 
nothing in the world I love to talk of 
so much as London and the fashions, 
though I was never there myself” (act 
ii. 1), Her mistaking her husband for a 
highwayman, and imploring bim on her 
knees to take their watches, money, all 
they have got, but to spare their | ives: 
“ Here, good gentleman, whet your rage 
upon me, take my money, my life, bat 








HARMONIA’S NECKLACE. 


425 


HARPAGON, 





*,* For explanation of the mystery, 
gee vol. I. ii. 18. 


Harmo’nia’s Necklace, an uon- 
lucky possession, something which brin 
evil to ita possessor, Harmonia was the 
daughter of Mars and Venus. On the 
day of her marriage with king Cadmos, 
she received a nebklene made by Vulcan 
for Venus. This unlucky ornament 
afterwards to Sem'el@é, then to 
Jocasta, then Eriphy’l@, but was bee pa 
fatal in every case. (See Luck.) vid, 
- Metaph., iv. 6; Statius, Thebaid, ii, 

Harmonious Blacksmith. It is 
eaid that the sound of hamniers on an 
anvil suggested to Handel the “theme” 
of the musical composition to which he 
has given this name.—See Schoelcher, 
Life of Handel, 65. 

A similar tale is told of Pythagoras, 
ae aes Seta ee 
une day ner a eulthy, and waa slruck by the 
found pridoced ga the hammer bent out a plece of 
im onanaunl ,.. He recognise! in thes enunds the 
iispaaon, the dlapanie, ond Ue dintesmrin harmony, . . « 


Going then into the stithy, be discovered that the dlf- 
ference of solnd afoee foun the diferent simee of the 
heirnuers, ond not from the difference of force employed 
in giving Ure strokes nor yet fro any difference m Ue 
Of the hammers, ... From this hint be constructed 
his oumieal ecale.—lamddichua, Life of /'pthagoras, Exvi. 
The same tale is also told of Tubal- 
Cain. 

Tuball hadde greete lykynger to here the hamers eiwne, 
and be funda premio oid acunle of melalye by 
werght of tie here; md eo hie -8 |) them merhe in the 
sours uf iuehelya, leit he wea not fdr of the Lngiru- 
metitie of mmupke —Higden, Polpercayoun, 


(Jt would be more to the point, per- 
haps, if the tale had Leen teld of Jubal, 
“*the fynder of certain lustrumentes of 
musyke.") 


Harmony (J/r.), a general peace- 


maker, When he found jersuns a 
variance, be went to them separately, 
and told them how highly the other 


spoke and thought of him or her. If 
it were man and wife, he would tell the 
wife how hichly her husband esteemed 
her, and would apply the “wiled feather” 
in a similar way to the husband. “ We 
all have our faults," he would say, “and 
So-and-so knows it, and grieves at his 
infirmity of temper; but though he con- 
tends with you, he praised you to me this 
morming in the hisshot terms." Hy this 
means he succeeded in smoothing many 
a rullled mind.—Inchbald, Lcery Une Aas 
flia Fault (1794). 

Harness Prize, a prize competed 
for triennially, on some Shakespearian 
subject. ‘Lhe prize consists of three 
years’ accumulated interest of £500. It 


was founded by the Rev, Mr. Harness, and 
accepted by the University of Cambridge. 
The first prize was awarded in 1874, 

Harold “the Dauntless,” son of 
Witikind the Dane. “ [le was rocked 
on a buckler, and fed from a blade.” 
Hiarold married Eivir, a Danish maid, 
who had waited on him as a page.—Sir 
W. Scott, Harold the Dauntless (1817). 

Harold (Childe), a man of good birth, 
lofty bearing, and peerless intellect, who 
has exhausted by dissipation the plea- 
sures of youth, and travels. Sir Walter 
Scott calls him “lord Byron in a fancy 
dress.” In canto i. the childe visits 
Portugal and Spain (1809); in canto ii,, 
Turkey in Europe (1810); im canto iii., 
Belyium and Switzerland (1816) ; in canto 
ive, Venice, Rome, and Florence (1817). 

«” Lord Byron was only 21 when he 
Childe Harold, and 28 when he 
finished it. 

Haroun-al-Raschid, caliph, of 
the Abbasside mee, contemporary with 
Charlemagne, and, like him,a patron of 
literature and the arts, The court of this 
ealiph was most splendid, and under bim 
the caliphate attained its greatest degree 
of prosperity (765-809), 

"8 Baus of the tales in the Arabian 
Nights are placed io the caliphate of 
Ilaronn-al-Raschid, as the histories of 
*Am'ind,” “ Sindlad the Sailor,” “Aboul- 
hasson and Shemselnihar," “* Noureddin,” 
‘‘Codadad and his Hrothera,” “‘ Sleeper 
Awakened," and ‘*Cogia T[assao.” In 
the third of these the caliph is a prin- 
cipal actor, 

Har'pagon, the miser, father of: 
Cleante (2 sy/.) and Elise (2 syl.). Hoth 
Harpagon and his son desire to marry 
Mariane (3 sy/.); but the father, having 
lost a ensket of money, is asked whi 
he prefers—his casket or Mariane, and 
as the miser prefera the money, Cleante 
marries the lady. Harpagon imagines 
that every one is going to rob him, and 
when he loses his casket, seizes his own 
arm in the frenzy of passion. He pro- 
poses to give hia daughter in marriage 
to an old man named Anselme, because 
no “dot” will be required; and when 


| Valire (who is Elise's lover) urges reason 


afler reason ayainst the unnatural alli- 
ance, the miser makes but one reply 
“sans dot.” “ Ah," says Valvre, | 
est vrai, cela ferme la bonche & tout, 
sins uvt.” Har n, at another time, 
Bolicita Jacques (1 syl.) to tell him what 
folks say of him; and when Jacoogs 





HARRY. 


427 





HASSAN. 





Harry (Sir), the servant of a baronet, 
who assumed the airs and title of his 
niaster, and was addressed as ‘ Baronet,” 
er “sir Harry.” He even quotes a bit 
of Latin: “‘O tempora! O Moses! "— 
Rev. James Townley, Hyh Life Below 
Stairs (1759). 


yo (Blind), the minstrel, friend of 
Henry Smith.—Sir W. Scott, Fuir Maid 
of Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Harry (The Great) or Henri Grace @ 
Dieu, a man-of-war built in the reign of 
Henry VII. 

Towered the Great Harry, crank and tall. 
Longfellow, The Building of the Shig, 

Ha Paddi n, a highway- 
man in the gang ote captain Macheath. 
Peachum calls him ‘‘a poor, petty-lar- 
ceny rascal, without the least genius ;” 
and says, ‘‘ even if the fellow were to live 
six months, he would never come to the 
gallows with credit.”"—Gay, Zhe Beygar's 
Opera (1727). 


Hart’house (2 sy/.), a young man 
who beyins life as a cornet of drayoons, 
but, being bored with everything, coaches 
himself up in statistics, and comes to 
Cokctown to study facts. He falls in 
love with Louisa (ne Gradgrind], wife 
of Josiah Bounderby, banker and mill- 
owner, but, failing to induce the young 
wife to elope with him, he leaves the 
place.—C. Dickens, Hurd Times (1854). 


Hartley (Adam), afterwards Dr. 
Hartley. Apprentice to Dr. Gray.—Sir 
W. Scott, Zhe Suryeon’s Daughter (time, 
George I1I.). 


Hartwell (Lad), a widow, courted 
by Fountain, Bellamore, and Harebrain. 
—Beaumont and Fletcher, Wit without 
Money (1639). 


Harfit and Marit, two angels 
gent by Allah to adminster justice upon 
earth, because there was no righteous 
judgment among men. They acted well 
till Zoha’ra, a beautiful woman, applied 
to them, and then they both fell in love 
with her. She asked them to tell her the 
secret name of God, and immediately she 
uttered it, she was borne upwards into 
heaven, where she became the planet 
Venus. Ag for the two angels, they were 
imprisoned in a cave near Babylon.— 
Sale's Auran, ii. 

Allah bade 
That two untempted spirits should descend, 


Judges on earth. Hardth and Marfith went, 
The chosen sentencera They fairly hea~’ 


The appeals of men... At length, 
A woan came before them ; besutifg 


Hassan, caliph of the Ottoman 
empire, noted for his splendour and hos- 
pitality. In his seraglio was a beautiful 
youny slave named Leila (2 sy/.), who had 
formed an attachment to ‘the Giaour” 
(2 sy/.). Leila is put to death by the 
emir, and Hassan is slain near mount 
Parnassus by the giaour ([djow’.er].— 
Byron, Zhe Giaour (1313). 


Hassan, the story-teller, in the retinue 
of the Arabian physician.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Talisman (time, Richard J.). 


Hassan (Al), the Arabian emir of 
Persia, father of Hinda. He won the 
battle of Cadessia, and thus became 
master of Persia.—T. Moore, Lalla 
Rookh (‘‘ The Fire-Worshippers,” 1817). 


Hassan, surnamed Al Habbal (‘‘the rope- 
maker"), and subsequently Cogia (‘‘ mer- 
chant”); his full name was then Cogia 
Hassan Alhabbal. Two friends, named 
Saad and Saadi, tried an experiment on 
him. Saadi gave him 200 pieces of gold, 
in order to see if it would raise him from 
extreme poverty to afiluence. Hassan 
took ten pieces for immediate use, and 
sewed the rest in his turban; but a kite 
pounced on his turban and carried it 
away. The two friends, after a time, 
visited Hassan again, but found him in 
the same state of poverty ; and, having 
heard his tale, Saadi gave him another 
200 pieces of gold. Again he took out ten 
pieces, and, wrapping the rest in a linen 
rag, hid it in a jar of bran. While Has- 
san was at work, his wife exchanged this 
jar of bran for fuller’s earth, and again 
the condition of the man was not bettered 
by the gift. Saad now gave the ro 
maker a small piece of lead, and this 
made his fortune thus: A _ fisherman 
wanted a piece of lead for his nets, and 
promised to give Hassan for Saad’s piece 
whatever he caught in his first draught. 
This was a large fish, and in it the wife 
found asplendid diamond, which was sold 
for 100,000 pieces of gold. Hassan now 
became very rich, and when the two friends 
visited him again, they found him a man 
of consequence. He asked them to stay 
with him, and took them to his country 
house, when one of his sons showed him 
& curious nest, made out of a turban. 
This was the very turban which the kite 
had carried off, and the money was found 
in the lining. As they returned to the 








HATTO. 429 





Hatto, archbishop of Mentz, was 
devoured by mice in the Mouse-tower, 
Bituate in a little green island in the 
midst of the Khine, near the town of 
Bingen. Some say he was eaten of rats, 
and Southey, in his ballad called God's 
Judjpnent on a Wicked Bishop, has 
adopted the latter tradition. 

This Hatto, in the the of the great famine of #14, 
@hen be ow the poor eiceelingly oppreerd by funina, 


aeembled a greet company of them toyvetler into a harne 
at Kaob, ood burnt them , . . berawe bo thouhi the 
famine woold sooner cenee If those poor folks were de 
che) cut of the world, for like nice they unks devour 
Al sud are of ne good wiatiwerer,.,. But Gud... 
eit aginst him a plage if mim... , ond the prelate 
retredted to @ lower ln ibe hive aso gametoary:... Lat 
the mice chase) him mmliiuails, ..., and at lost he was 
Get miserably devoured by thos sil crentores.—Coryad, 
Pruadifios, BS), Gr. 


*,* Giraldus Cambrensis, in his Jtine- 
rary, xi. 2, saya: “‘the larger sort of 
mice are called rufi."” This may account 
for the substitution of rats for mice in 
the legend, 

The legend of Hatto is very common, 
as the following stories will prove :— 

Wrierolf, Iishop of Strasburg (997), 


was devoured by mice in the seventeenth | 


year of his episcopate, because he sup- 
eased the convent of Selizen on the 
shine. 

Lishop Adolf, of Cologne, was devoured 
by mice or rata in 1112. 

Frederr con Giiltinjen collected the 
en In a great barn, and burnt them to 
Jeath, mocking their cries of agony, 
He, like Hatto, waa invaded by mice, 
ran to his castle of Gilttingen, in the 
lake of Constance, whither the vermin 
ursued him, and ate him alive. The 
swiss lerend says the castle sank in the 
lake, ond may still be seen, Freiherr 
von Gilttingen had three castles, one of 
which was MM voslure. 

Count Grau, in order to enrich him- 
self, bourht up all the corn. One year 
a bad famine prevailed, and the count 
expected to reap a rich harvest by his 
speculation; but an army of rats, pressed 
by hunger, invaded his barns, and, awarm- 
ing into his Khine tower, fell on the 
old baron, worried him tw death, and then 
devoured him.— Lejenis of the Ahine, 

A similar story is told by William of 
Malmesbury, Jfatory, ii, §1d (Bobn's 
edit.). 

*," Some of the lerends state that the 
“mice” were in reality “the souls of 
the murdered people.” 

Hatton (Sir Christopher), “the 
dancing chancellor.” We first attracted 
the attention of queen Elizabeth by bis 


graceful dancing at a masque, He was 











HAVISH AM. 


made by her chancellor and knight of 
the Garier. 

*.* M. de Lanzun, the favourite of 
Louis X1IV., owed his fortune also to the 


| manner in which be danced in the king's 


quadrille, 

You know ar Christopher by hh turning out his 
toe, —fan, pou know, for his dancing —Sle kian, The 
Crisiz, LL 1 \i77y). 

Hautlieu (Sir Artoran de), in the 
introduction of sir W. Scott's Count 
Hibert uf Paris (time, Rufus). 

Afautlieu (The lady Margaret de), first 
disguised as sister Ursula, and afterwards 
affianced to sir Maleolm Fleming.—Sir 
W. Scott, Castle Dangerous (time, Henry 


Have'lok (2 s!.) or Hablok, the 
orphan son of DGirkabegn king of Den- 
mark, was exposed at sea through the 
trenchery of his guardians. The raft 
drifted to the coast of Lincolnshire, 
where it was discovered by Grim, a fisher- 
man, Who reared the youny foundling as 
his own son. It happened that some 
twenty years later certain English nobles 
usurped the dominions of an English 
princess, and, to prevent ber gaining any 
access of power by o noble alliance, 
resolved to marry her to a peasant, 
Young Ilavelok was gelected as the 
bridegroom, but having discovered the 
story of his birth, he applied to bw 
father Dirkabern for aid in recoverin 
his wife's possessions. The king afford 
him the aid required, and the joung 
foundling became in due time both kin 
of Denmark and king of that part o 
England which belonged to him in right 
of his wife.—Jiucdiw tie Dune (by the 
trouveurs), 


Havisham (iss), an old spinster, 
who dressed alwovs in her bridal dress, 
with lace yell from head to foot, white 
shoes, bridal* flowers in her white hair, 
and jewels on her handa and neck. 
She was the daughter of a mch brewer, 
engaged to Compevson, a young man, who 
threw ber over on the wedding morming ; 
from which mument she became fossilized 
(ch. xxii.). She fell into the fire, and 
died from the shock, 

Lestelia Hacishoam, the adopted child of 
Miss | lavisham, by whom she was brought 
up. She was proud, handsome, anil self- 
possessed. Pip loved ber, and probably 
#he reciprocated his love, but she married 
Itentley Drummle, who died, leaving 
Estella a young widow. The tale ends 
with these worda : 





431 


| ++ emewemeemep © fk? 


HEARTALL. 


royal pardon is sent to Edinburgh, Effie 


ie released, and marries her seducer, now 
sir George Staunton; but soon after the 
marriage sir George is shot by a gipsy 
boy, who is in reality his illegitimate 
son. (mn the death of her husband, lady 
Staunton retires to a convent on the Con- 
tinent. Jeanie marries Reuben Butler 
the presbyterian minister, The novel 
opens with the Porteous riots, 


Heartall (Governor), an old bachelor, 
peppery in temper, but with a generous 
eart and unbwunded benevolence. He 
is as simple-minded asa child, and loves 
his young nephew almost to adoration. 
Frank Heartall, the governor's nephew ; 
impulsive, free-handed, und free-hearted, 
benevolent and frank. He falls in love 
with the Widow Cheerly, the daughter of 
colonel Woodley, whom he sees first at 
the opera. Ferret, a calumniating rascal, 
tries to do mischief, but is utterly foiled. 
—Cherry, The Soldier's Dawyhter (1504), 
Heartfree (Jack), a trailer against 
women and against marriage. He falls 
half in love with lady Fanciful, on whom 
he rails, and marries Belinda.—Van- 
brugh, The Provoked Wife (1693). 
Heartwell, a friend of Modely's, 
who falls in love with Flora, a niece of 
old Farmer Freehold. They marry, and 
are happy.—John Philip Kemble, Zhe 


Farm-/wuse. 


Heatherblutter (Join), camekeeper 
of the baron of Hradwardine (3 syi.) at 
Tully Veolan.—sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(tune, George I1.). 


Heaven, according to Danté, begins 
from the top of the mountain Purgatory, 
and rises upwards through the seven 
planetary spheres, the cee of the fixed 
stars, the primum mobil’, and terminates 
with the empyréum, which is the seat of 
God, (See PaArapise.) Milton preserves 
the samedivisions. He says, ‘* they who 
to be sure of paradise dying put on the 
garb of monks :" 


o. . fae the planets ren, and pas the “ fixt,* 
And that crystallin sphere whee balance weighe 
The trepidauion talked, aod that first mune... saa 


io 
At foot of heaven's mecent they UM thelr fect, when loi 
A Tiulent crom wind... blowsthom.,.. awry 


Vobo tbe devious air, 

Heaven-sent Minister (VTihe), 
William Pitt (1759-1806). 

Hebe (2 sy/.), goddess of youth, and 
cup-bearer of the immortals before 
Ganymede superseded her. She was the 


HECTORS. 
wife of Herculés, and had the power of 
making the aged young again. (See 
PLovusiya.,) 

Hebés ore they to hand embroela, mix 

The rctar, 

Tennyson, The Princess, UL 
Heb'ron, in the first part of Absalom 

and Achitupiel, by Dryden, stands for 
Ilolland; but in the second part, by 
Tate, it stands for Scotland, Hebronite 
similarly means in one case a Hollander, 
and in the other a Scotchman. 


Hec'ate (2 sy/.), called in clasme 
mythology Sec',a.te (3 syl.); @ triple 
deity, being Luna in heaven, Dien'’a ov 
earth, and Proserpine (3 sil.) in hell 
Hecate presided over magic and enchant- 
ments, and was generally represented as 
aba the head of a horse, dog, or boar, 
though sometimes she is represented with 
three bodies, and three heads looking 
different ways. Shakespeare introduces 
her in hia tragedy of Macbeth (act iii. 
ec. 6), as queenof the witches; but the 
witches of Macbeth have been largely 
borrowed from a drama called The Witch, 
by Thom, Middleton (died 1626). The 
following ia m specimen of this indebted- 
ness :— 


Heeote. Black spirits and white, red spirits and greg, 
Mingle, tilngle, mingle, poo that mingle may. . 

le Witch Here's the blow! of o bat 

Areafe, Put in that, oh pot in thet 





| Set tek Here's Uber‘ le, 


Heeate, Put in agaln, eft., ote 
Middleton, Taw Witch. 
And yonder pale-faced Werate there, the moon, 
Doth give quent to that ia done in dasknes, 
Thom. Kyd, The Spanish Tragedy (1587), 
Hector, one of the sons of Priam 
king of Troy. This bravest and ablest 
of all the Trojan chiefs was weneralissimo 
of the allied armies, and was slain in the 
last year of the war by Achillés, who 
with barbarous fury, dragged the dead 
body insultingly thrice round the tomb of 
Patroclos and the walls of the beleagured 
city.—Llomer, Jliad, 


Hector de Mares (1 syl.) of 
Marys, a knight of the Round Table, 
brother of sir Launcelot du Lae. 

The gende Gaw nin's courtevus lore, 
Hector de Mara, and Pellinore — 
Bir W. Gott, frida of Friermain, iL 13 (im 

Hector of Germany, Joachim II, 
elector of Drandenburg (1514-1571). 

Hector of the Mist, an outlew, 
killed by Allan M‘Aulay.—Sir W. } 
Legend of Muntrvse (time, Charles I), 


Hectors, street . bullies, Since the 
Restoration, we have had a succession of 
street brawlers, as the Muns, the Tityre 








conquest of Ireland (1172).—Leland, His- | 


tor) of Ireland (1775). 


Helen, the heroine of Miss Edge- 
worth's novel of the same name, This 
was her last and most popular tale (1834) 


Helen, cousin of Modus the bookworm, 
She loved her cousin, and tanght him 
there was a better “art of love” than 
that written by Ovid.—S. Knowles, The 
Hunchback (1831). 

Mis Taylor was the original “ Helen,” and her per- 
formance was universally pronounced tio be exqelelte and 
Soartyaes tle, (in ome cecadon, Mr. Knowles alroiped a 
Goss whirh Miss Taylor wore in the part, and after Cire 
play she sent it him. The poet, in reply, oot the lady ~ 
@opy of verses. — Walter Lary, 

Helen ( Lady), in love with sir Edward 
Mortimer. Her uncle insulted sir 
Edward in « county assembly, strock 
him down, and trampled on him. Sir 
Edward, returning home, encountered the 
drunken ruffian and murdered him, He 
was tried for the crime, and acquitted 
“without a stain upon his character ;" but 
the knowledge of the deed preyed upon 
his mind, so that he could not marry the 
niece of the murdered man, After lead- 
ing a life of utter wretchedness, sir 
Edward told Helen that he was the 
murderer of her uncle, and died.—, 
Colinan, The Jron Chest (1796). 


ITelen [Mow nray], in love with Wal- 
singham. “Of all prace the pattern— 
person, feature, mind, heart, everything, 


as nature had exsayed to frame a work | 
whicre none could find a flaw.” Allured by | 


lord Athunree te a house of ill-fame, 


under pretence of doing a work of charity, | 


she was seen by Walsingham as she came 
out, and he abandoned her as a wanton, 
She then assumed male attire, with the 
name of Eustace, Walsingham became 
her friend, was told that Eustace was 
Helen's brother, and finally discovered 
that Eustace was Helen herself. The 
mystery being cleared op, they became 
man and wife.—S. Knoowles, Woman's 
Wit, ete. (1834). 


Helen's Fire (feu dHeléne), a 
comazant, called ‘* St. Helme’s ” or “ St. 
E)mo's fire" by the Spaniards; the “ fires 
of St. Peter and St. Nicholas" by the 
Italians; and “Castor and Pollux™ by 
the ancient Romans. This electric licht 
will sometimes play about the masts of 
ships. If only one appears, foul weather 
may be looked for; but if two or more 
flames appear, the worst of the storm is 
ovor. 


W here 'er Fhe aome of Lewks alavel 
Their dara on oor rea els hed, 


19 





Helen of One’s Troy, the ambi- 
tion of our heart, the object for which 


we live snd die. The allusion, of ccurse, 
ia to that Helen who eloped with Paria, 
and thus brought about the siege and 
destruction of Troy. 

For which men all the life here enjoy 


Still fight, aa for the Helena of their Troy. 
Lord Brooke, Preatie of Sumine Leornlag (1O4-lESi, 


Hel'ena (St.), daughter of Coel duke 


Colchester and afterwards king of 
Britain. She married Constantius (a 


Roman senator, who succeeded ‘“' Old 
king Cole”), and became the mother of 
Constantine the Great. Constantins died 
at York (aA.v. 300), Helena is saidto have 
discovered at Jerusalem the sepulchre 
and cross of Jesus Christ.—Goeoffrey, 
Eritish History, v. 6 (1142). 

*," This legend is told of the Col- 
chester arms, which consist of a cross and 
three crowns (two atop and one at the 
foot of the croas), 

At aconeldorable depth heneath the surface of the earth 
were fad Shree treme, e hich were listantly reeguleet 
es thidoee on wh Chriet and the two thieves bad aoiffered 
deh, To sererialn which wae the fre crom, o formals 
Corie whe plo! ae all tires alternately; Ue two fling 
tried prajurel ae rifert, bot the thind imatantly meanl- 
thited the body.—J, Brady, Claris Calemieria, 151, 
Herel! in person went to mek (hai hely cro 
Whereon sor Baviour died, whieh found, as it ©as sought; 
From Salem unio Rome trlumphaotly she brought 

Drayton, Polpofbiom, will (161%). 

Ticl'ena, only daughter of Gerard de 
Narbon the physician. She was left 
under the charge of the countess of 
Rousillon, whose gon Tertram she fell in 
love with, The king sent for Bertram 
to the palace, and Helena, hearing the 
king was ill, obtained permission of the 
countess to give him a prescription left 
by her late father. The medicine cured 
the king, and the king, In gratitude, 
promised to make her the wife of any one 
of hia courtiers that she chose. Helena 
selected Iertram, and they were married ; 
but the baoghty count, hating the alliance, 
left France, to join the army of the duke 
of Florence. liclena, in the mean time, 
started on a pilgrimage to the shrine of 
St. Jacques le Grand, carrying with her a 
letter from ber husband, stating that he 
would never sea her more “* till she could 
get the ring from off his finger.” On her 
way to the shrine, she lodged at Florence 
with a widow, the mother of Diana, with 
whom Dertram was wantonly in love, 
Helena was permitted to pass herself off 
as Diana, and receive his scaiaas in one of 

F 





a a oe? 


SHELL PAVED, ETC. 435 





Teethers... 2 


spleth near ber bank | 
eee en een enemas 


owout 


*.* One of the caverns is 19 feet 6 
inches _decp, another is 14 feet deep, and 
the third is 17 feet. These three com- 
una Gt fection, Weck nines 

& eep, W is quite separate 
from the other three. 


Hell Paved with Good Inten- 
tions.—A Portuguese Proverb, 


ying Be are on 
Te pity ——— ee es pines 
Hellebore (3 orig celebrated in 


Abd to cores helletore. 
thilancholy by ‘Eerten Pametion, yan 
Hellespont. Leander used to swim 

acrogs the Hellespont to visit Hero, a 
peeten of Sestos, Lord Byron and 
ieutenant Ekenhead repeated the feat, 
and accomplished it in seventy minutes, 
the distance being four miles (allowing 
for drifting). 

He could, perhaps, hare poe the Hellespont, 

As ones ja feat on whieh ourselves we prided) 

Leander, Mr. Ekentvend, ancl | did. 

Byron, Don fmm, UL 108 (La). 
Hellica'’nus, the able and honest 

minister of Per'iclés, to whom he left the 
eharge of Trre during hia absence, 
Reing offered the crown, Hellicinus nobly 
declined the offer, and ‘remained faithful 
to the prince throughout.—Shakespeare, 
Jcricles Prince of Tyre (1604). 


Helmet of Invisibility. The 
helmet of Persens (2 sy/.) rendered the 
wearer invisible, This was in reality the 
* Helmet of Ha'dés," and after Perseus 
had slain Medu'sa he restored it, together 
with the winged sandals and magic 
wallet. The “yorgoo's head” he pre- 
sented to Minerva, who placed it in the 
middle of her egis. (See |xvistAiliry,) 

*,* Mambrino'’s helmet had the same 
magical power, though don Quixote, even 
in hia midsummer madness, never thought 
bimeelf invisible when he donned the 
barber's basin. 


Heloise. La Nouvelle Hélvtse, a ro- 
mance by Jean Jacques Rousseau (1761). 
Helvet'ia, Switzerland, modernized 
Latin for Ayer Helvetigrum. 
Englands glory and Helvetia’s charm 
Camphell Plater gf Soe, ll. (LPO. 
The Helcetian Mountains, the Swias Alps. 


“Tew een et, are (he pomeierarkes 

shine bo @ere oct th’ Holretian Miata nt ung, 

Teal te dake Wie Goalie grile) bedever 
emo, 





| in bis // Penseroso, s 


HENNEBERG. 





He sister of prince Memn 
mentioned by Dictys Mabe ane Milton, 


Memnon's sister™ (1 % oP raed 


Hem'junah, princess of Cassimir’, 
daughter of the sultan’ Zebene’ zer ; 
betrothed at the -, er donna heer re 
of Georgia. As Hemjunah had never 
seen the prince, she ran away to avoid 
a forced marriage, and was 
Llin the enchanter into a toad. 
form she became acquainted with Misnar 
sultan of India, wha had likewise been 
transformed into a toad by Ulin. Misnar 
was disenchanted i, dervise, and slew 
iia whereupon princess recovered 

roper shape, and areal home, A 

lion broke | ont in Cassimir, but the 
‘angel of death” Geakroved the rebel 
army, and Zebenezer was restored to his 
throne. His surprise was unbounded 
when he found that the prince of 
and the sultan of India were one and the 
same person; and Hem reiren enid, “* Bo 
assured, © sultan, that I shall oot refuse 
the hand of the prince of Georgia, even if 
my father commands ny obedience."—Sir 
C. Morell [J. Ridley }, Zales of the Genii 
(‘« Princess of Cassimir," vii., 1751), 


Hemlock. Socratés the Wise and 
Phocion tie Good were both by the Athe- 
nians condemned to death by bemlok 
juice, Socratés at the age of 70 (n.c. 529) 
and Phocion at the age of 85 (n.c. 317). 


Hempe'kirke (2 sy/.), a captais 
serving under Wolfort the usurper of the 
earldom of Flanders.—Deaumont and 
Fletcher, The Begyars’ Bush (1622), 


Hen and Chickens (7+), the 
Plewdes, Calledin Dasque Oiloa Chituehin 
(same meaning).—Miss Frere, Old Deccan 


= 


Uyay ate 


Henbane makes those who chance to 
eat of it “ bray like asses or neigh like 
horses." 


Hen'derson (filias), chaplain aot 
Leivhleven (astle.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe 
Abbot (time, Elizabeth). 

Henneberg (Count), One day pa 


bexgar-woman asked count Henneberg's 
wife foralms. The countess twitted her 
for carrying twins, whereupon the womay 
cursed ber, with the assurance that “her 
ladvship | should be the mother of 5345 
children.” ‘The legend says that the 
countess bore them at one birth “ but 
none of them lived any | of time, 
All the girls were named Liizabeth, and 











HEOROT. 487 HERCULES. 

He’orot, the magnificent palace built | hence led a life of great bet was 
by Hrothgar king of Denmark. Here‘‘he | ultimately received smonget the im- 
distributed rings [treasure] at the feast.” | mortals.— Xenophon. 

Then was for the sons of the Geats a bench cleared in *,* Mrs. Baubauld has borrowed this 
the beer hail ; there the bold "he, free, from, . | allegory, but instead of Herculés hes 
bie hand the twisted ale-cur nwhile the poet sang | Substituted Melissa, ‘‘a young girl,” whe 


He'par, the Liver personified, the 
arch-city in The Island, by 
Phineas Fletcher. Fully described in 
eanto iii. (1683). 


Wephess’tos, the Greek name for 
Vulcan. The Vulcanic period of geo- 
is that unknown period before the 
creation of man, when the molten granite 
and buried metals were upheaved by 
internal heat, through the overlying 
strata, sometimes even to the very sur- 
face of the earth. 
The early dawn and dusk of Time, 
The reign of datelew old Hephastus, 
Longfellow, The Geiden Legend (1851). 
Herbert (Sir William), friend of sir 
Hugo de Lacy.—Sir W. Scott, The Be- 
érothed (time, Henry I1.). 


Her’culés shot Nessus for offering 
insult to his wife Di’-i-a-ni-ra, and the 
dying centaur told Diianira that if she 
dipped in his blood her husband's shirt, 
she would secure his love for ever. Her- 
culés, being about to offer sacrifice, sent 
Lichas for the shirt; but no sooner was it 
warmed by the heat of his body than 
it caused such excruciating agony that 
the hero went mad, and, seizing Lichas, 
he flung him into the sea. 

Herculés Mad is the subject of a Greek 
tragedy by Enurip’idés, and of a Latin 
one by Sen’eca. 

As when Alcidés . . . felt the envenomed robe, and tore, 
Theu' cain, up by the roots Theaalian 
And Lichas from the top of (Eta [a mount) threw 
Into the Ruboic Rea (eke Archijelago), 
Milton, Paradise Lost, iL 542, ete. (1668). 

*,* Dioddrus says there were three 
Flerculéses ; Cicero recognizes six (three 
of which were Greeks, one Egvptian, one 
Cretan, and one Indian); Varro says 
there were forty-three. 

Herculés's Choice. When Herculés 
was a young man, he was accosted by 
two women, Pleasure and Virtue, and 
asked to choose which he would follow. 
Pleasure promised him all carnal delights, 
hut Virtue promised bim immortality. 
Herculés gave his band to the latter, and 


is accosted by Dissipation an Honse- 
wifery. While somewhat in doubt which 
to follow, Dissipation’s mask falls off, 
and immediately Melissa beholds such a 
‘“‘wan and ghastly countenance,” that 
she turns away in horror, and gives her 
hand to the more sober of the two ladies. 
— Evenings st Home, xix. (1795). 

Herculés's Horse, Arion, given him by 
Adrastos. It had the git of human 
speech, and its feet on the right side were 

ose of a man. 

Herculés’s Pil Calpé and Ab’yls, 
one at Gibraltar and the other at Ceuta 
(3 syé.). They were torn asunder 
Alcidés on his route to Gadés (Cadiz). 

Herculés's Ports : (1) ‘* Herculis Corsani 
Portus” (now called Porto-Ercolo, in 
Etruria) ; (2) ‘* Herculis Liburni Portes" 
(now called Livorno, t.e. Leghorn) ; (3 
** Herculis Moncosci Portus” (now call 
Monaco, near Nice). 

Herculés (The Attic), Theseus e syl.), 
who went about, like Herculés, destroy- 
ing robbers, and performing most won- 
derful exploits. 


Herculés (The Cretan). All the thres 
Idean Dactyls were so called: viz., Cel- 
mis (‘‘the smelter”), Damnaméneus (‘‘the 
hammer"), and Acmon (‘the anvil”). 


Herculés (The Egyptian), Sesostris (fi. 
n.c. 1500). Another was Som or Ch 
called by Pausanias, Macéris son 

mon. 


Herculés (The English), Guy earl of 
Warwick (890-958). 


Herculés (The Farnesé), a statue, the 
work of Glykon, copied from one by 
Lysip'pos. Called Farne'sé (8 syi.) from 
its being placed in the Farnesé of 
Rome, where were at one time collected 
also the “‘ Toro di Famesé,” the “ Flora di 
Farnesé,” and the ‘*Gladiatoré di Far- 
nes&,” The “ Hercuiés” and “Toro” are 
now at Naples. The ‘ Farnesé Her- 
culés " represents the hero exhausted by 
toil, leaning on his club; and in his 
hand, which rests on his back, he holds 
one of the apples of the Hesperidés. 

*.* A copy of this famous statue 
stands in the Tuilleries gardens of Paris. 





HERMES. 489 
| wood, and falling asleep from weariness, 


say to the Thames, referring to the 
merchant ships of quand £ 

By yous [ship] 

1 pce 


Abenside, yma te the Nala (1767). 
Betis is the Guadalquiver, and 
the Hectic vale Granida and Andalucia.) 


Her'més Ay sy/.), the same as Mercury, 
and applied both to the god and to the 
metal. Milton calls quicksilver “‘ volatil 


Hermés (St.), same aa St. Elmo, Suerpo 
Santo, Castor and Pollux, etc. A coma- 
gant or electric light, seen occasionally on 
ships’ masts. 

“ They shall we the fire which sylor call Bt. Hermes, 
Oo shippe. amd al ii ar oll 
@y o wernt thelr fon Fecnear hgh ay Jn tbe 


Herm 3 Prism 

thrice-yreatest "), the Erv ptian Thoth, to 
whom is ascribed a host of inventions: 
as the art of writing in hieroglyhica, the 
first Egyptian code of laws, the art of 
harmony, the science of antiolony, the 
invention of the lute and lyre, magic, 
etc. (twentieth century f.c.). 


The achool of Herne Trianecistus, 
Who vitered his oracles subline 
Befure the (yp mpilads 
w, Tie Golden Legend (1851). 


Her’mesind (3 syl.), daughter of 
Pelayo and Gaudio'ss, She was plighted 
to Alphonso, con of lord Pedro of Can- 
tabria. Both Alphonso and Hermesind 
at death were buried in the cave of St. 
Antony, in Covadonga. 


Besoty ond pride ond iniociece in her 
itimvenly onion shone, One who hl held 
The falth of elder Green would cure have thought 
otk py reg h pepsapyl lye sear a 
Greed or Ly pr tulan 
Angel or soa) tea! ified, from readona 
Of blie . . . te earth resent. 

, Rederich, ete, evi. (1814) 


Her’mia, daughter of Eye’us (3 sy/.) 
of Athens, and promised by him in 


marriave to Demetrius. Aa Hermia loved — 


Lysander, and refu to marry De 
metrius, her father summoned her before 
the duke, and requested that the “ law of 
the land" might be carried out, which 
was death or perpetual virginity. The 
duke gave Hernia four days to consider 
the subject, at the expiration of which 
time she was cither to obey her father or 
lose her life, Sbe now fled from Athens 
with Lysander. Demetrius went in pur- 
suit of her, and Helena, who doted on 
Demetrius, followed. All four came too 





ad. Li ie Bleek | 





~ HERMIONE. 


had a dream about the fairies. When De- 


| metrius woke up, he came to his senses, 


and seeing that Hermia loved another, 

consented to marry Helena; and pew 

gladly gave the hand of his dat 
Lysander.—Shakespeare, Afi 

flight's Dream (1592). 


Herm’‘ion, the young wife of Damon 


“the Py im —— mae of Syrm- 
cuse.—J, and Py 
(1825). 


Hermi’one (4 ay. ), only daughter wf 
Menela’os and Helen. She became the 
wife of Pyrrhos or Neoptoltmos, on of of 


Achillés; but Orestés gna dares 
and married H Hermioné, who been 
already betrothed to him. 


Hermioné (4 syl.) or Harmo‘nia, wife 
of Cadmus. Leaving Thebes, Cadmns 
and his wife went to IJliyr'ia, "and were 
both ehanged into serpents for havin 
killed a serpent sacred to Mars.—Ovic 
= apnea iv. 590, - 


Lovellen. ma not theres ‘hvoes that bal ilipris [wore] changed-— 
Harmon _ Caulenna, 


tou, Puradiss Lost, tx, O05, ete, (1005, 


Hermioné (4 syl.), wife of Leontis 
king of Sicily. The king, boing jealous, 
sent her to prison, where she gave birth 


- twadaughter, who, at the king's command, 


was to be placed on a desert shore an 

left to perish. The child was driven by 
a storm to the “ coast" of Bohemia, and 
brought up by a shepherd who called her 
Per'dita. Florizel, the son of Polixenés 
king of Bohemia, fell in love with her, 
and they fled to Sicily to escape the 
vengeance of the angry king. Heing 
introduced to Leontés, it was soon dis- 
covered that Perdita was his lost daugh- 
ter, and Polixenés gladly consented to 
the union he had before objected to. 
Pauli’na (a lady about the court) now 
asked the roval party to ber house to 
inspect a statue of Hermioné, which 
turned out to be the living queen herself, 
—Shakespeare, The Winter's Tale (loO4), 


Llermiuné (4 syl.), only ” oe of 
Helen and Menelii‘ua (4 5 tt ng of 
Sparta. She was betroth 

but after the fall of Troy naa, promi 
by her father in marriage to Pyrrhus 
king of Epirus. Orestés madly loved her, 
but Hermione as madly loved Pyrrhua, 
When I’vrrhus fixed his affections on 
Androm‘aché (widow of lector, and 
his captive), we pride and jealousy of 
Hermiondé were roused, At this crisis, 





HERO. 





the chamber balcony ; he then induced 

udio to hide himself in the en, to 
everhcar what was said. Claudio, think- 
ing the person to be Hero, was furious, 
and next day at the altar rejected the 
bride with scorn. The priest, convinced 
of Hero's innocence, gave out that she 
was dead, the servant confessed the trick, 
don John took to flight, and Hern married 
Claudio her betrothed. — Shakespeare, 
Much Ado about Nothing (1600). 


Hero [Surrox], niece of sir William 
Sutton, and beloved by sir Valentine de 
Grey. Hero “was fair as no eye ever 
fairer saw, of noble stature, head of 
antique mould, magnificent as far as may 
consist with softness, features full of 
thought and moods, wishes and fanci 
and limbs the paragon of symmetry. 
Having offended her lover by waltz. 
with lord Athunree, she assumed the gar 
of a quakeress, called herself ‘‘Ruth,” and 
got introduced to sir Valentine, who 
proposed marriage to her, and then dis- 
covered that Hero was Ruth and Ruth 
was Hero.—S. Knowles, Woman's Wit, 
etc. (1838). 


Hero and Leander (3 sy/i.). 
Hero, a priestess of Venus, fell in love 
with Leander, who swam across the 
Hellespont every night to visit her. One 
night he was drowned in so doing, and 
Hero in grief threw herself into the same 
sea.—Museus, Leander and Hero. 


Hero of Fable (The), the duc de 
Guise. Called by the French L'Hero de 
ia Fable (1614-1664). 


- Hero of History (The), the duc 
d’Enghien [Darn zjéahn]. Called by the 
French ZL’ Hero de [ Histoire. This was 
Le grand Condé (1621-1687). 

Hero of Modern Italy, Gari- 
baldi (1807- +). 


Herod'otos of Old London, J. 
Stow (1525-1605). 


Her’on (Sir G of Chip-chace 
gn officer with sir John Foster.—Sir W. 
tt, The Monastery (time, Elizabeth). 


Heros’tratos or Erostratos, the 
Fphesian who set fire to the temple of 
Diuna at Ephesus (one of the seven won- 
ders of the world) merely to immortalize 
bis name. The Ephesians made it penal 
even to mention his naine. 


Herostratus shall prove vice gurernes fame, 
Who built that church he tarnt hath just hte name. 
Brooke, /ngusition apoa Fume (1864-1696) 


4l1 





HESPERIA. 


Herries (Lord), a friend of quem 
Mary of Sotland and attending on her 
at ndrennan.—Sir W. Scott, Tie 
Abbot (time, Elizabeth). 





Herring (Good red). 


Deyden, Duke of Gutes 


Herring Pond (The), the ocean 
between the British Isles and America. 
sn is 5 uP a tes oe 

Herschel (Sir F. Wm.) discovered 
the eighth planet, st first called the 
Georgium sidus, in honour of George III. 
and now called Saturn. In allusion to 
this, Campbell says he 

Gave the lyre of heaven another string. 
Pleasures of Hope, i. 07001. 

He now called St. Kilda, one of 

the Hee tae. as 


Hertford (Zhe marquis 4 in the 
court of Charles I].—Sir W. Seott, 
Woodstock (time, Commonwealth). 


Her Trippa, meant for Hen 
Cornelius Agrippa of Nettesheim, phi- 
losopher an physician. “Her” is a 
contraction of He'ricus, and “ Trippa” a 

lay on the words Ayrippa and tripe.— 

abelais, Pantay'ruel, iii. 25 (1545). 


Herwig, king of Hel’igoland, ba. 
trothed to Gudrun, daughter of king 
Hettel (Attila). She was carried off by 
Hartmuth king of Norway, and as she 
refused to ma him, was put to the 
most menial work. Herwig conveyed an 
army into Norway, utterly Sefeated Hare- 
muth, liberated Gudrun, and married her, 
—Gudrun, » German Epic of the thir- 
teenth century. 


Her’zog (Pukc), commander-in-chiet 
of the ancient Teutons (Germans). 
The herzog was elected by tne freemen 
of the tribe, but in times of war and 
danger, when several tribes united, the 
princes selected a leader, who was alse 
called a ‘* herzog,” similar to the Gaulish 
‘““brennus” or “‘bren,” and the Celtie 
** pendragon ” or head chief. 


Heskett (Ralph), landlord of the 
village ale-house where Robin Oig and 
Harry Wakefield fought. 

Dame Heskett, Ra:ph's wife.—Sir W. 
thy The Two Drovers (time, George 


Hesper’ja. Italy was #0 called by 
the Greeks, because it was to them the 








HIERCCLES. 


in 1813, when in war with the 
Creek Indians, he fell short of supplies, 
and ™ his men on hickory nuts (1767- 
845 

*.* This general Andrew Jackson 
must not be confounded with general 
Thomas Jackson, better known as 
** Stone-wall ” Jackson (1826-1863). : 


Hi’eroclos (4 syl.), the first person 
who compiled jokes and bon mots. After 
a life-long labour, he got together twenty- 
ene, which he left to the world as his 

. Hence arose the phrase, An 

weroc'lean leyacy, no legacy at all, a 
legacy of empty promises, or a legacy of 
oo worth. 

One of his anecdotes is that of a man 
who wanted to sell his house, and carried 
about a brick to show as a specimen 
of it. 

He that tries to recommend Shakespeare aslect 
sri we teeth 
fm bls pocket as a specimen.—Dr. Johnson, Preface te 
Shaheopenre. 


Hieron’imo, the chief character of 
Thomas Kyd's drama in two parts, pt. i. 
being called /icrunimo, and pt. ii. The 
Spanish Trayedy or Hieronimo is Mad 
Ayun. In the latter play, Horatio, only 
aon of Hieronimo, sitting with Belim- 
pe’ria in an alcove, is murdered by his 
rival Balthazar and the lady's brother 
Lorenzo. The murderers hang the dead 
body on a tree in the garden, and Hie- 
ronimo, aroused by the screams of Be- 
limperia, rushing into the garden, sees 
the dead body of his son, and goes raving 
mad (1588). 


Higden (4frs. Betty), an old woman 
nearly four score, very poor, but hating 
the union-house more than she feared 
death. Betty Higden kept a mangle, 
and ‘‘minded young children” at four- 
vence a week. A poor workhouse lad 
named Sloppy helped her to turn the 
mangle. uM. . Boftin wished to adopt 
Johnny, Betty's infant ndchild, but 
he died in the Children's Hospital. 

Khe was one of those old women, was Mra. Betty 
Hluden, who, by dint of an Indumitable purpuse asd a 


etrong constitution, fight out many years; an active old 
woman, with a bright dark ese & reeulute face, yet 
quite a temier creature, tvo.—C. Dickens, Our Mutual 
Priend, 1. 16 (1064). 

Higg, ‘‘the son of Snell,” the lame 
witness at the trial of Rebecca.—Sir W. 
Keott, Jranhoe (time, Richard 1.). 

i n, Prigg, Snapp, and Fer- 
et, pavioh besyars in The Beyyars 
Sush, a drama by Beaumont and Filet- 
eher (1622). 


448 


HIGHLAND MARY. 





High and Low Heels, two fac- 
tions in Lilliput. onth called from the 
high and low 8 eir shoes, badges 
of the two factions. The High-heels 
tories and the huh-church party) were 

e most friendly to the ancient consti- 
tution of the empire, but the emperor 
employed the Low-heels (whigs and low- 
churchmen) as his ministers of state.— 
SO, Gulliver's Travels (** Lilliput,” 
4 e 


High Life Below Stairs, a farce 
by the Rev. James Townley. Mr. Lovel, 
a wealthy commoner, suspects his ser- 
vants of ‘‘wasting his substance in 
riotous living ;" so, pretending to go to 
his country seat in Devonshire, he as- 
sumes the character of a country bump- 
kin from Essex, and places himeelf 


under the of his own butler, to 
learn the duties of a gentleman's 
servant. As the master is away, 


Philip (the butler) invites a large party 
to supper, supplies them with the 
choicest wines. The servants all assume 
their masters’ titles, and address each 
other as ‘‘ My lord duke,” “sir H ” 
‘““My lady Charlotte,” ‘My lady ‘<< 
ete. and mimic the airs of their em- 
oyers. In the midst of the banq 
vel appears in his true charater 
breaks up the party, and dismisses his 
household, retaining only one of the lot, 
named Tom, to whom he entruste the 
charge of the silver and plate (1759). 


Highgate (a suburb of London). 
Drayton says that Hi was 60 
called because Brute, the mythical Tro- 
jan founder of the British empire, ** ap- 
pointed it for a gate of London;” but 
others tell us that it was so called from 
@ gate set up there, some 400 years 
ago, to receive tolls for the bishop of 
London. 

Then Highgate boasts bis way which men do mest fre- 
Me Se ea en 
Drayton, Polyeidion, xvi. (1613). 

Hightand Mary, immortalized 
Robert Burns, is generally thought to be 
Mary Campbell ; but it seems more likely 
to be Mary Morison, “‘one of the poet's 
youthful loves.” Probably the songs, 
Will ye yo to the Indies, my Mary’ High- 
land Mary, Mary Morieun, and Mar 
tn Heaven, were all written on one 
the same Mary, although same think 
Buyltand Mary and Mary in Heaven re- 


fee campbell, who, we am 








BIPPOLYTA. 


445 





HOB. 





*,* Shakespeare has introduced Hip- 
polyta in his Midsummer Nigh?s Dream, 
betroths her to Theseus (2 sy.) 
duke of Athens; but according to classic 
fable, it was her sister An’tiopd (4 syi.) 
who married Theseus. 


Hippol'yta, a rich lady wantonly in love 
with Arnoldo. By the cross purposes of 
the plot, Leopold a sea-captain is en- 
amoured of Hlippol Arnoldo is con- 
tracted to the chaste Zeno’cia, and 
Zenocia is dishonourably pursued by the 

vernor count Clo’dio.— Beaumont and 
(leary The Custum of the Country 
l e 


Hippolytos (in Latin, Hippolytus), 
son of” Presvus. He provoked the anger 
of Venus by disregarding her love, and 
Venus, in revenge, made Phsdra (his 
mother-in-law) fall in love with him, and 
when Hippolytos repulsed her advances, 
she accused him to her husband of 
seeking to dishonour her. Theseus 
prayed Neptune to inish the young 
man, and the sea-god, while the youn 
man was driving in his chariot, sca 
the horses with sea-calves. Hippolytos 
was thrown from the chariot and killed, 
but Diana restored him to life ayain. (See 
Hrpro.iro.) 

Hippelytus hinwelf would leave Diana 
To fullow such a Venus. 
Masinger, 4 New Way to Puy Uld Debts, lil. 1 (1638). 

Hippom’enes (4 syi.), a Grecian 

rince who outstripped Atalanta in a 
oot-race, by dropping three golden 
apples, which she stopped to pick up. 
By this conquest he won Atalanta to 
wife. 


Een bere, in this reg’ -. of wonders, I find 
That light-fucted Fancy leaves Truth far behind; 
Ur, at least, like Hippomenés, turns her catray 
By the gokiun na he dings in ber way. 
. Moure. 


Hippopot’amus, symbol of impiety 
and ingratitude. Lear says that “in- 
gratitude ins child is more hideous than 
the sea monster.” 

The hippoputamus killeth his are, and ravisheth his 
éam.—sandys, Trevels (1615). 

Hippot’ades (4 syi.), Edlus the 
wind-god, son of Hippota. 

[Fel questioned every gust of rugged wi 


And sce Hip,otatés their answer bri 
That nota 


Hiren, a atrumpet. From Peele's play 
The Turkish 3ahomet and Hyren the Fair 
Greek (1581). 


in Itallan called a courtezim : in Spaine a margarite: 
French une pufuine; in Eagilsh. . . a punk. 


“There be «arens in the sea of the world. 

Bivens os are .ow called. Wek s namber thate 
harlots, swimme amongst as !“—Adame, Spiricual Sav 
gator (1615). 

Hiroux (Jean), the French ‘ Bill 
Sikes,” with aD the tragic elements 
eliminated. 
fra, hes Seetney en tee sg 


were you 
Pres. Where te that? Jean. At Galard. 
Pres. What t? Jean. Galard. 
Moanter, 


Hislop (John), the old carrier at Old 
St. Ronan’s.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan's 
Well (time, George III.). 

Hispa’nia, Spain. 

Histor’icus, the nom de plume of 
the Hon. E. Vernon Harcourt, for many 
years the most slashing writer in the 
Saturday Review, and a writer in the 

Unes. 


History (Father of). Herod’otos, the 
Greek histonan, is so called by Cicero 
(B.c. 484-408). 


History (Father of Ecclesiastical), 
Polygnotos of Thaos (fl. B.c. 463-435), 
The Venerable Bede is so called some- 


times (672-735). 


History (Father of French), Andre 
Duchesne (1584-1640). 


Histrio-mastix, a tirade agaist 
theatrical exhibitions, by William Prynne 
(1632). 


Ho‘amen, an Indian tribe settled on 
a south branch of the Missouri, having 
Az'tlan for their imperial city. The 
Az'tecas conquered the tribe, depose” 
the queen, and seized their territory by 
right of conquest. When Madoc landed 
on the American shore, he took the part of 
the Hoamen, and succeeded in restoring 
them to their rights. The Aztecas then 
migrated to Mexico (twelfth century).— 
Southey, Maduc (1805). 


Hoare (1 syl.), 37, Fleet Street, 
London. The golden bottle displayed 
over the fanlight is the sign of James 
Hoare, a cooper, who founded the bank. 
The legend is that it contains the leather 
bottle or purse of James Hoare, and the 
half-crown with which he started busi- 
ness in 1677. 

Hob Miller of Twyford, an insur- 
rent.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Betrothed 
time, Ilenry II.). 


Hob or Ha r, miller at 
Mary's Convent. pper, 








HOCHSPRINGEN. 





at Cambridge in the seventeenth century. 
He kept a livery stable, but obliged the 
university students to take his hacks in 
rotation. Hence the term Hudson's 
ics came to signify ‘“‘this or none.” 
Milton (in 1660) wrote two humorous 
poems on the death of the old carrier. 


Hochspring ‘en (The young duke 
» introduced in Donnerhugel’s narra- 


Ler W. Scott, Anne of Geterstein 
(time, Edward IV.). 


Hocus (Humpiry), ‘the attorney ” 
into whose ohn Bull and bi 
friends put the law-suit they carried on 
against Lewis Baboon (Lows XIV.). 


Uf course, Humphry Hocus is John 
Churchill, duke of Marlborough, who 
commanded the army employed against 
the Grand Monarque. 

Hocus was on old cunning 3 and this 
was the first considerable sult he was ever in, be 
showetl bimeslf superiure in addres: to most of his 
soecth wongenl paca rs i his 
Ret 
Barca hisnestt etier Une theen lL The weighionrs 
reported that be was hen-pecked, which was impouible by 
euch a mild-cpirited woman as bis wife was (Ais wife was 

dreperate taermaygant | —Dr. y | of Jehan 
Budi, v. (1713). 


Hodei’rah (3 sy/.), husband of Zei’- 
aab (2 ey/.) and father of Thalaba. He 
died while Thalaba was a mere lad.— 
Southey, Thalaba the Destroyer, i. (1797). 


Hodeken (i.e. little hat), a German 
kobuld or domestic fairy, noted for his 
little felt hat. 


Hd’der, the Scandinavian god of 
darkness, typical of night. He is called 
the blind old god. der is the god of 
light, typical of day. According to fable, 
Héder killed Balder with an arrow made 
of mistletve, but the gods restored him to 
life again. 

Hoder, the blind old god, 
Whose feet are shud with gilenes. 
ellow, Tegner’s Death, 

Hodge, Gammer Gurton’s goodman, 
whose breeches she was repairing when 
she lust ber needle.—Mr. S. Master of 
Arta, Gummer Gurtun's Needle (1551). 

*,* Mr. S. is said to be J. Still, after- 
wards bishop of Kath and Wells, but in 
1551 he was only eight years old. 


Hodges (John), one of Waverley's 
servants.—Sir W. Scott, Waterley (time, 
George II.). 

Hod.jes (Joe), landlord of Bertram, by 
the lake near Merwyn Hall.—Sir W. 
beott, Guy Auancriny (time, George II.). 


Hodge’son (Gafer), a puritan.—Sir 


447 


HOLDENOUGH. 


W. Peveril the Peak (time, 
Charles II.). f ( 
Hoel (2 sy/.), king of the Armorican 
Britons, and nephew of king Arthur. 
Hoel sent an army of 15,000 men to 
assist his uncle the Saxons (501). 
In 6, being driven from his kingdom 
ovis, he too in 
but in 613 he recovered ‘his threes and 
died in 545. 





Dragton, Polyetiion, tv. 0612. 
Hoel, aon of prince Hoel and Lla’ian. 
Prince Hoel was slain in rattle by his 
half-brother David king of North Wales, 
and Lisian, with her son, followed the 


fortunes of prince Madoc, who migrated 
to North America. Young Hoel was 
kidnapped by Ocell’opan, an Aztec, and 
carried to Az’tlan for a pitiatory 
sacrifice to the Aztecan H 
confined in a cavern without food; but 
Co’atel, a young Aztecan wife, took pity 
on him, visited him, supplied him wi 
food, and assisted Madoc to release him. 
—Southey, Madoc (1805). 


Hornescar, a German mode of 
punishment, which consisted in carrying a 
dog on the shoulders for a certain number 
of miles. 

Plosieurs comtes accuses de 

al‘tante du hevnvece?, peine 
condanid.—P. W. docharts L 

Ho’ (William), called ‘‘ The 

Juavenal of Painters” (1695-1764). 


Ho'yarth (The Scottish), David Allan 


(1744-1796). 
Hogarth of Novelists, Henry 
Fielding (1707-1754). 
Hog Lane, Whitecha London ; 
afverwords called ‘ peechapel Lan " and 
now ‘* Middlesex Street.” 


Hohenlin’den, in Bavaria, famous 
for the battle fought in November, 1801 
between the Austrians under Klenan, and 
the French under Moreau. The French 
remained the victors, with 10,000 pri- 
soners. 


in their snlpburvus canopy. 
Campbell, Battle of Mohenijnden (1881). 
Hold’enough (Afaster Nehemiah), 
presbyterian preacher, ejected from his 
pulpit by a military preacher.—Sir W 
tt, 


vodstock (time, Commonwealth), 





HOLY MOTHER OF THE RUSSIANS. 449 


VIII.) would die a sudden death if he 

di arine and married 

3 m At sone time she wes 

ought to inspired with a prophetic 

ift, and even the lord chancellor, sir 
omas More, was inclined to think so. 


Holy Mother of the Russians. 


Moscow is so called. 


Ho ll Street, London. So 
ealled from a spring of water ‘‘ most 
sweet, salubrious, and clear, whose runnels 
murmur over the shining stones.” 

*.* Other similar wells in the suburbs 
of London were Clerkenwell and St. 
Clement's Well. 


Home, Sweet Home. The words 
of this popular rong are by John Howard 
Payne, an American. It is introduced 
in his melodrama called Clari or The 
Maid ‘4 Milan, The music is by sir 
Henry Bishop. 

Homer (The British). Milton is so 
called on Gray’s monument in West- 
minster Abbey. 

No more the Grecian muse unrivalled reigns ; 
To Britain Ict the nations homage pay : 
Ge felt a Homer's fire in Milton's strains. 
A Pindar's rapture in the lyre of Gray 

Homer (The Casket), an edition of 
Homer corrected by Aristotle, which 
Alexander the Great carried about with 
him, and placed in the golden casket 
richly studded with gems, found in the 
tent of Darius. Alexander said there 
was but one thing in the world worthy to 
be kept in so precious a casket, and that 
was Aristotle's Homer. 


Homer (The Celtic), Ossian, son of 
Fingal king of Morven. 


Homer (The Oriental), Ferdusi, the 
Persian poet, who wrote the Chah Nameh 
or history of the Persian kings. It con- 
tains 120,000 verses, and was the work of 
thirty years (940-1020). 


Homer (The Prose). Wenry Fielding 
the novelist is called by Byron ‘The 
Prose Homer of Human Nature” (1707- 
1764). 

Homer ( The Scottish), William Wilkie, 
author of The Lpwoun'iad (1721-1772). 

Homer of our Dramatic Poets 

Zhe). So Shakespeare is called by 

den (1564-1616). 


Shakespeare was the Homer or father of our dramatic 
re Jouon was the Virgil, I admire rare Ben, but 
love Shakesprare.— Dryden. 


Homer of Ferra’ra (The). Ariosto 


HOMESPUN. 


was called by Tasso, Omero Ferraresl 
(1474-1583). y 
Homer of the Franks (The). 


Angilbert was so called by Charlemagm 
(died 814). y 


Homer of the French Drama 
(T. *). Pierre Corneille was so called by 
sir Walter Scott (1606-1684). 


Homer of Philosophers (7h), 
Plato (B.0. 429-847). 


Homer the Younger, Philiscos, 
one of the seven Pleiad ’ of Alex- 
andria, in the time of lemy Phila- 

elphos. 


, Homer a Cure for It 
is an old superstition that if fourth 
book of the ied is laid under the head 

a ent suffering from quartan ague, 
it will cure him at once. derenus Sam™ 
monicus, preceptor of Gordian, a noted 
physician, says: 

Maonie iades quartam sappone timenti. 


Pres. 3. 

Homeric Characters. 

AGAMEMNON, haughty and imperious; 
ACHILLES, brave, impatient of command, 
and relentless ; DiomEn, brave as Achil- 
les, but obedient to authority ; AsAx the 
Greater, a giant in stature, fool-hardy, 
arrogant, and conceited; Nestor, a 


old man, garrulous on the glories of his 
youthful days; ULyssis, wise, crafty, 
and nt; Patrocios, a gentle 
friend; TukRsiT&s, a scurrilous dema- 


gogue. 

Fecror, the protector and father of 
his country, a brave soldier, an affection- 
ate husband, a wise counsellor, and a 
model prince; SARPEnoN, the favourite 
of the gods, gallant and generous; 
Panis, a gallant and a fop; Troitus, 
“‘the prince of chivairy;” Priam, a 
broken-spirited old monarch. 

HELEN, a heartless beauty, faithless, 
and fond of pleasure; ANDRo™M’acn®, a 
fond young mother and affectionate wife; 
CASSANDRA, a querulous, croaking pro- 
phetess ; Hecusa, an old she-bear robbed 
of her whelps. 


Homespun (Zékiel), a farmer of 
Castleton. Being turned out of his 
he goes to London to seek his fortune, 
Though quite illiterate, he has warm 
affections, noble principles, and a most 
ingenuous mind. Zekiel wins £20,000 
a lottery ticket, bought bv his d 
father. 

Cicely Homespun, sister of Zekiel, be=. 

e 





HONEYMAN. 451 





HOOD. 





of her nurse. This folly, however, is 
happily interrupted. — G. Colman the 
elder, Polly Honeycombe (1760). 


Honeyman (Charlies), a free-and- 
easy clergyman, of social habits and 
fluent speech.—Thackeray, The Newcomes 
(1855). 


Honeymoon (The), a comedy by 
J. Tobin (1804). The general scheme 
resembles that of the Zaminy of the Shrew, 
viz., breaking-in an unruly colt of high 
mettle to the harness of wifely life. 6 
duke of Aranza marries the proud, over- 
bearing, but beautiful Juliana, eldest 
daughter of Balthazar. After marriage, 
he takes her to a mean hut, and pretends 
he is only a nt, who must work for 
his daily bread, and that his wife must 
do the household drudgery. He acts 
with great gentleness and affection; and 
by the end of the month, Juliana, being 
thoroughly reformed, is introduced to 
the castle, where she finds that her hus- 
band after all is the duke, and that she is 
the duchess of Aranza. It is an excellent 
and well-written comedy. 


Honeywood, ‘the good-natured 
man,” whose property is made the prey 
of swindlers. iis uncle, sir William 
Honeywood, in order to rescue him from 
sharpers, causes him to be scized for a 
bill to which he has lent his name “‘to a 
friend who absconded.” By this arrest 
the yourg man is tauyht to discriminate 
between real friends and _ designing 
knaves. Honeywood dotes on Miss Rich- 
Jand, but fancies she loves Mr. Lofty, 
and therefure forbears to avow his love; 
eventually, however, all comes right. 
Honeywood promises to ‘ reserve his pity 
for real distress, and his friendship for 
true merit.” 

Though inclined to the right, [Ae] had not courage to 
eondemn the wrung. [His] charity was but Injustice ; 
(dé) benevulence but weakness; and (Ais) friendship but 
q@redulity.—Act v. 

Sir William Honeytrood, uncle of Mr. 
Honeywood ‘the yood-natured man.” 
Sir William secs with reyret the faults 
of his nephew, and trics to correct them. 
He is a dignified and high-minded gen- 
tleman.—Goldsmith, Zhe Govd-natured 
San (1767). 


Hono’ra, daughter of general Archas 
“the Joyal subject” of the great-duke of 
Moscovia, and sister of Vivola.—Beau- 
mont and Fletcher, The Loyal Subject 
(1618). 


Hono’ria. a fair but haughty dame, 


tly loved by Theodore of Ravenns 4 
Bat the ladv ‘‘hated him alone,” 
‘“‘the more he loved the more she dis~ 
dained.” One day, she saw the ghost 
of Guido Cavalcanti hunting with two 
mastiffs a damsel who despised his love 
and who was doomed to sutfera year for 
every month she had tormented him, 
Her torture was to be hunted by dogs, 
torn to pieces, disemboweled, and re- 
stored to life again every Friday. This 
vision so acted on the mind of fonoria, 
that she no longer resisted the love o 
Theodore, but, ‘‘ with the full consent of 
all, she ch her state.”—Dryden, 
Theodore and Honoria (@ poem). 

*,* This tale is from Boccaccio, De- 
cameron (day v. 8). 


Honour (4frs.), the waiting gentle- 
woman of Sophia Western.—Fielding, 
Tom Jones (1749). 


This is worse than Suphy Western and Mra. Honcar 
ebout Tom Jones's broken arm.—Prof. J. Wilson. 


Honour and Glory Griffiths. 
Captain Griffiths, in the reign of William 
IV., was so called, because he used to 
address his letters to the Admiralty, to 
‘“‘Their Honours and Glories at the 
Admiralty.” 


Honour of the Spear, a touma- 
nent. 

He came to Runa’s echoing halls, and sought the honoer 
of the spear.—Umian, The War of Inis-Thona. 

Honours (Crushed by His or Her). 

Tarpeia (3 sy/.), daughter of Tarpeius 
(governor of the citadel of Rome), pro- 
mised to open the gates to Tatius, if his 
soldicrs would give her the ornaments 
they wore on theirarms. As the soldiers 
entered the gate, they threw on her their 
shields, and crushed her to death, saying, 
‘These are the ornaments we Sabines 
wear on our arms.” 

Draco, the Athenian legislator, was 
crushed to death in the theatre of gina 
by tbe number of caps and cloaks 
showered on him by the audience, as a 
mark of honour. 

Elagab’alus, the Roman emperor, in- 
vited the leading men of Rome to a 
banquet, and, under pretence of showin 
them honour, rained roses upon them ti 
they were smothered to death. 


Hood (Robin), a famous English out- 
law. Stow places him in the reign of 
Richard J., but others make bim live at 
divers periods between Cocur de Lion and 
Edward 1]. His chief haunt was Sher~ 
wood Forest, in Nottinghamsaire. Apcient 





HOP-0O’-MY-THUMB. 





453 


HORATIUS. 





Hop-o’-my-Thumb, a character in 
several nursery tales. Tom Thumb and 
Hop-o’-my-thumb are not the same, 
although they are often confounded with 
ccc othe. hted by king Arth d 

nta, knig y king ur, an 
was killed by a spider; but Hop-o'-my- 
devauiogs tho Hvanch te petit powcr, and 

ing, the Frenc tit pouce, 
the Scotch Tom-a-lin oF Tamlanes He 
was not a human dwarf, but a fay of 
usual fairy proportions. 
Your boclned tous frou Lilt come 

Kane (Hara, Midas (1778). 

Horace, son of Oronte (2 sy/.) and 
lover of Agnes. He first sees Agnes in a 
balcony, and takes off his hat in passing. 
Agnes returns his salute, ‘‘ pour ne puint 
manquer & la civilité.” He again takes 
off his hat, and she again returns the 
eompliment. He bows a third time, and 
ehe returns his “‘ politeness" a third time. 
** Il passe, vient, repasse, et toujours me 
fait a chaque fois révérence, et moi 
nouvelle réverence aussi je lui rendois.” 
An intimacy is soon established, which 
ripens into love. Oronte tells his son he 
intends him to marry the daughter of 
Enrique (2 sy/.), which he refuses to do; 
but it turns out that Agnes is in fact 
Enrique’s daughter, so that love and 
obedience are easily reconciled.—Moliére, 
L'eécole des Femmes (1662). 

Horace (The Enyjlish). Ben Jonson is 
ies by Dekker the dramatist (157 

é e 

Cowley was preposterously called by 
George duke of Buckingham“ The Pindar, 
Horace, and Virgil of England” (1618- 
1667). 

Horace (The French), Jean Macrinus or 
Salmon (1490-1557). 

Pierre Jean de Beranger is called ‘‘The 
Horace of France," and ‘‘The French 
Burns” (1780-1857). 


Horace (The Portuguese), A. Ferreira 
(1528-1569). pases 


Horace (The Spanish). Both Lupercio 
Argen’svla and his brother Bartolome are 
so called. 


Horace de Brienne (2 sy/.), en- 


ed to Diana de Lascours; but after the 
iscovery of Ogari'ta (alias Martha, 


Tom Thumb was the son of | 





Roman father.” She was to 
Caius Curiatius, whom her survivi 

brother slew in the well-known poniliet 
e a three Sera and kitted, Albans. 
‘or the purpose of being ki she in- 
sulted her brother Publius in his triumph, 
and spoke disdainfully of his “‘ otic 
love,” which he preferred to filial and 
brotherly affection. In his anger he 
stabbed his sister with his sword.— 
Whitehead, The Roman Father (1741). 


Hora’tio, the intimate friend of prince 
Hanlet.—Shakespeare, Hamlet Prince of 
Denmark (1596). 


Hora’tio, the fnend and brother-in-law 
of lord Al’tamont, who discovers by 
accident that Calista, lord Altamont's 
bride, has been seduced by Lothario, and 
informe lord Altamont of it. A duel 
ensues between the bridegroom and the 
libertine, in which Lothario is killed; and 
Calista stabs herself.—N. Rowe, Zhe Fuir 
Penitent (1708). 


Horati “the Roman father.” 
He is the father of the three Horatii 
chosen by the Roman senate to espouse 
the cause of Rome against the Albans. 
He glories in the choice, hae he. ay 
country to his offspring. His ter, 
Horatia, was espoused to one of the 
Curiatii, and was slain by her surviving 
brother for taunting him with murder 
under the name of patriotism. The old 


| man now renounced his son, and would 


Diana's sister], he falls in love with her, | 


and marrics her with the free consent 
of hie former choice.—E. Stirling, The 
Orphan of the Frozen Sea (1856). 


Horatia, daughter of Horatius “the 


| Tuscan was also des 


have given him up to justice, but king 
and people interposed in his behalf. 

Publius Horatius, the surviving son 
of ‘‘the Roman father.” He pretended 
flight, and as the Curiatii pursued, ‘* but 
not with equal speed,” he slew them one 
by one as they came up.—Whitehead, 
The Roman Father (1741). 


Horatius [Cocles., captain of the 
bridge-gate over the Tiver. When Por’- 
séna brought his host to replace Tarquin 
on the throne, the march on the city 
was so sudden and rapid, that the consul 
said, ‘‘The foe wili be upon us before 
we can cut down the bridge.” Horatius 
exclaimed, “lf two men will join me, | 
will undertake to give thé enemy play 
till the bridge is cut down.” Spurius 
Lartius and Herminius volunteered t join 
him in this bold enterprise. Three men 
came against them and were cut down. 
Three others met the same fate. Then 
the lord of Luna came with his brand 
‘‘ which none but he could wield,” but the 
Horatius 





tale of the ‘‘ Wooden Horse” forms no part 

of Homer's Jiiad, but is told by Virgil in 

his .dine’id, Virgil borrowed the tale from 

Arctinos of Milétus, one of the Cyclic 

poets, who related the story of the 

some Horse” and the “burning of 
y. 

*," A very similar stratagem was em- 
ployed in the seventh century a.m. by 
Aba Obeidah in the siege of Arrestan, in 
Syria. He obtained leave of the governor 
to deposit in the citadel some old lumber 
which impeded his march. Twenty boxes 
(filled with soldiers) were accordingly 
placed there, and Abn, like the Greeks, 
——_ to march homewards, At night 

soldiers removed the sliding bottoma 
of the boxes, killed the sentries, opened 
the city Po wen, and took the town.— 
Ockley, Afistory of the Saracens, i, 185, 

The capture of Sark was effected by a 
similar trick. A gentleman of the Nether- 
lands, with one ship, asked permission of 
pss ae bury one of his crew in the 

pel. e request was granted, but 
the coffin was full of arms, The pre- 
tended mourners, being well provided 
with arma, fell on the guards and took 
ed island by surprise.—Tercy, Ancedoles, 


Horse (Merlin’'s Wooden), Clavileno, 
This was the horse on which don Quixote 
effected the disenchantment of the infanta 
Antonomisia and others. (See CLavi- 
LENO, p 14.) 

Horse (The Enchanted), a wooden 
horse with two pegs. Hy turning one the 
horse rose into the air, and by turning 
the other it descended where and when 
the rider listed. Jt was given by an 
Indian to the shah of Persia, as a New 
Year's gift. (See Firovz Scman.j— 
Araian Nights (*' The Enchanted Horse"), 


Horse (The fifteen points of a good). 
A geod bore chokle have three propyrtecs af o — 


6 beer<. 6 grote eye, adry bead, and well reon . Of 
ar. ae, a bypee chyne o Mat legge, and o good {.— 
Wi petes dz Worde | 1a) 

Horse-hair breeds Animals. 
According to legend, if the hair of a horse 
is dropped into corrupted water, it will 
turn to an animal. 

A tbere-balr laid In o palefoll of torbid water, will ina 
Ghort time stir and became a ving cresture.—Iolinshea, 
Basrijtien of England, D4. 

Horse Neighing. On the death of 
Gmerdis, the several competitors for the 
Persian crown agreed t he whose 





466 





“ap eo « 





HORTENSE. 


horse neighed first should be 
king. e horse of Darius nei first, 
and Darius was made king. Lord Brooke 
calle him a Seythian; be was son of 
Hystaspés the satrap, 


The brare Seythian 
Whe Sound menve exestness in is bowa'y neues 


Painted. Apelliés of Cos 





Horse 
| painted Alexander's horse so wonderfully 


well that a real horse, seeing it, began to 
neigh at it, supposing it to be alive, 

Myro the statuary made a cow so true 
to life that sev bulls were deceived 


Velasquez painted a Spanish sdmirl 
so true to life that Felipe [V., mista 


| by it. 


it for the man, reproved the sn 


officer ly for wasting his time in a 
pees studio, when he ought to be with 

15 fleet. 

Zeuxis painted some grapes so ndmir- 
ably that’ birds flew at them, thinking 
them rea) fruit. 

Parrhasios of Ephesus painted a 
curtain so inimitably that Zeuxis thought 
it to be a real curtain, and bade the artist 
draw it aside that he might eee the 
painting behind, 

Quintin Matsys of Antwerp painted a 
bee on the ontstretehed leg of a fallen 
angel so naturally that when old Mandyn, 
the artist, returned to his studio, he tried 
to fnghten it away with his pocket-hand- 
kerchief. 

Horse of Brass (The), « present 
from the king of ony at nd to 
Cambuscan’ king of Tartary. : 

Red to 


| whispered in its ear where he wis 


go, and having mounted, turned a pin, 


| whereupon the brazin steed rose in the 


air as high as the rider wished, and 
within twenty-four hours landed him at 
the end of hia journey. 


This stee! of trees, thal raslly and 

Can, in the of a naturel, . ss 

re whack peor aft wiliere 

rs] | four ar Lo 

Tale.” 13). 


Horst (Conrude), one of the in 
surgents at Litge.—Sir W. Scott, bi 
Demand tithe Edward 1V.). 


Hortense’ (2 syl.), the vinlictive 


| French maid-servant of lady Dedlock. 


shown by 


In revenge for the partiali 
beau 


lady Dedlock to Roea the vil 


, ty, 
| Hortense murdered Mr. Tulkinghorn, and 


tried to throw the suspicion of the crime 
on lady Dedlock, Dickens, Bleak 
Houses (1853). 





HOUSSAIN. 


457 HRIMFAXI. 





ve the following Hebrew 


otes and 3$i— 
1. [Tadeo és} the kid that my father bought for two susim 
3 MA as the ent that est... 
3 [Thte is] the dog that bi 
4 [This ie] the stick that beat ° 
& [Fade ts] the fre that bornt 
@ [Phés is] the water that quenched ... 
7. [Phde de} the ox that drank .. . 
4 Thte ie the butcher that killed ... 
s is the angel, the angel of death, that slew... 


he has often heard the Kafirs tell their 
children the same story. 


Hous’sain ( rince), the elder brother 
of prince Ahmed. He possessed a 
of such wonderful powers that if any one 
sat upon it it would transport him in a 
moment to any place he liked. Prince 
Houssain bought this carpet at Bisnagar, 
in India.—Arabian Niyhts (“* Ahmed and 
Paribanon "). 


The wish of the penman isto him like prince Houssain’s 
tapestry in the Eastern fable.—Sir W. Sevtt. 


*,* Solomon's carpet (q.0.) possessed 
the same locomotive power. 


Houyunhnma [ Whin'.ims], a race 
of horses endowed with human reason, 
and bearing rule over the race of man.— 
Swift, Gulliver's Travels (1726). 
pected a tits, Ptr at oes Bt 


Guy Mannering (1815). 

Howard, in the court of Edward IV. 
—Sir W. Scott, Anne of Geierstein (time, 
Edward IV.). 

How’atson (Luckie), midwife at 
Ellangowan.—Sir W. Scott, Guy dfan- 
nering (time, George II.). 

Howden (.frs.), salesewoman.—Sir 
.W. Scott, Heart of Midlothian (time, 
George I1.). 

Howe (Miss), the friend of Clarissa 
Harlowe, to whom she presents a strong 

ontrast. She has more worldly wisdom 
and lexs abstract principle. In questions 
of doubt, Miss Howe would suggest some 
practical solution, while Clarissa was 
mooning about hy pothetical contingencies. 
She is a girl of high spirit, disinterested 
friendship, and sound common sense.— 
Richardson, Clarissa Hurlowa (1749). 

2 


Howel or Hoel, king of the West 
Welsh in the tenth cents » surnamed 
‘the Good.” He is a very famous king, 
especially for his code of laws. 
not the Howel or Hoel of Arthurian 
romance, who was duke of Armorica in 
the sixth century. 

What Mulmutian lawe, or Martian, ever were 

More excellent than those which our goed Howel here 

Ordained to govern Wales? 

Drayton, Pelyerbion, tr. (1419). 

Howie (Jamie), bailie to Malcolm 
Bradwardine (8 ri of Inchgrabbit.— 
Sir W. Scott, Waverley (time, George 


Howlaglass (Master), a preacher. 
Friend of justice anletotate. oar W. 
Foote, Peverii of the Peak (time, Charles 


Howle’glas (Father), the abbot of 
Unreason, in the revels held at Kenna- 
guhair Abbey ir W. Scott, The Abbot 
(time, Elizabeth). 

Howleglass (2 sy/.), a clever rascal, 
so called froin the hero of an old German 
jest-book, popular in England in queen 
Elizabeth’s reign.—Seo Eulenspiegel. 


Hoyden (iss), a lively, ignorant, 
romping, country girl.—Vanbrugh, The 
Relapse (1697). 

*,* is was Mrs. Jordan’s great 
character. 

Hoyden (Miss), daughter of sir Tun- 
belly Clumsy, a green, ill-ed 
country girl, living near Scarborough. 
She is promised in marriage to lord Fop- 
pington, but as his lordship is not person- 
ally known either by the knight or his 
daughter, Tom Fashion, the nobleman’s 
you r brother, himself off as 
ord Foppington, is admitted into the 
family, and marries the hciress.—Sheri- 
dan, A Trip to Scarborough (1777). 

*,* Sheridan’s comedy is The Relapse 
of Vanbrugh (1697), abridged, recast, and 
somewhat modernized. 


Hrasvelg, the giant who keepe watch 
on the north side of the root of the Tree 
of the World, to devour the dead. His 
shape is that of an eagle. Winds and 
storms are caused by the movement of 
his wings.— Scandinavian Mythology. 


Hrimfax'i, the horse of ftom 
whose bit fall the rime-drops every 








HUBERT. 
hell Sanfherd tn Den, fer ha wan sother dalersted, and 
a moet forbidding 


bal countenne.—Q. Dibdin, Mistery 
oS the stage. 

Hubert, on honest lord, in love with 
Jac'ulin daughter of Gerrard king of the 


beggars.—Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe 
Beygars' Bush (1622). 


Hubert, brother of prince Oswald, 
severely wounded by count Hurgonel in 
the combat provoked by Oswald against 
Gondibert, his rival for the love of 


Rhbwdalind the heiress of Aribert king of 


Lombardy.—Sir W. Davenant, 
(died 1668), 

Hubert, an archer in the service of «ir 
Philip de Malvoisin.—Sir W. Scott, 
Tauehie (time, Richard I.). 

Hubert (St.), patron saint of huntsmen. 
He was son of Lertrand duc d'Acquitaine, 
and cousin of king Pepin, 

Huddibras (Sir), s man “ more 
huge in strength than wise in works,” 
the auitor of Perissa (erfrarajance).— 
Spenser, Faéry Queen, ii. 2 (1590). 

Hudibras, the hero and title of a 
rhyming political satire, by 5. Butler. Bir 


Hudibras iso Presbyterinn justice in the | 


Commonwealih, who ects out with bis 
’equire Kalph (an independent) to reform 
abuses, ot enforce the obsorvance of the 
laws fur the suppression of popular sports 
and amusements (1663, L664, 1678). 

*.* The Grwb Street Journal (1781) 
maintains that the academy figure of 
Hudibras was colonel Rolle of Devon- 
shire, with whom the poet lodged for 
some time, and adda that the name is 
derived from Ilugh de Hras, the patron 
saint of the county. Others say that 
sir Samuel Luke was the original, and 
cite the following distich in prouf there- 
ef :— 

"Tes ming, there's w vallant Mameluke, 
In foreign inode yolepel 8 FF [oir Loko J] 

Hudiadge, a shah of Persia, suffered 
much from sleeplesaness, and commanded 


Fitead, hia porter and gardener, to tell | 


him tales to while away the weary hours, 
Fitead declared himself wholly unable to 
comply with this request. ‘Then find 
some one who can," said Wudjadge, “ or 
suffer death for disolwdience.” On reach- 
ing home, greatly dejected, he told his 
only daugliter, Moradbak, who was 
motherleas, and only 14 years old, the 
shah's command, and e undertook 
the task. She told the shah the stories 
called Zhe Criental Yales, which not only 
emusei him, but cured him, and he 





HUGH OF LINCOLN. 


married her.—Comte de Caylus, Oriental 
Tales (1748). 

Hudsin mF Geoffrey), the famous 
dwarf, formerly page to queen Henrietta 
Maria, Sir G y tells Julian Peveril 
how the late queen had him enclosed in a 
pie and brought to table.—Sir W. Scott, 

everil of the Peak (time, Charles I].). 

*,* Vandyke has immortalized sir 
Geoffrey by his brush; and some of his 
clothes are eaid to be preserved :n air 
Hans Sloane's museum. 


Hudson (Tom), ekeeper.—Sir W. 
Seott, Guy Mannering (time, George II.). 

Hugh, biackemith at Ringleburn ; 
a friend of Hobbie Elliott, thee “yo 
foot farmer.—Sir W. Scott, The B 
Dwarf (time, Anne), 


Hugh, servant at the Maypole inn, 
This gene in stature and ringleader in 
the "‘ No Popery riots,” was a natural son 
of sir John rand a gipsy. He 
loved Dolly Varden, and was very kind 
to Barnaby Rudge the half-witted Ind. 
Hugh was exccuted for his participation 
in the “ Gordon riota,"—C, Dickens, 
Barnaby Rude (1841). 


Hugh count of Vermandois, a 
crusader.—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert of 
Paris (time, Rufus). 


Hugh de Brass (Jfr.), in A Regular 
Fiz, be. M. “rstepaly = 


Hugh of Lincoln, a boy eight yean 
old, seid to have been stolen, p ter 
and crucified by Jews in 1255. Eighteer 
of the wealthiest Jews of Lincoln wen 
hanyed for taking part in this affair, and 
the boy was buried in state. 

*,* There are several documents fb 
Rymer's fiedera relative to this event 
The story is told in the Chronictes of 
Matthew Paris. It is the subject of thy 


| Privress'a Tula in Chaucer, and Words 
| worth 


bas a modernized version of 
Chaucer's tale. 

A similar story is told of William af 
Norwich, said to have been crucified by 
the Jews in 1137. 

Percy, in hie Feligues, i, 5, hos o 
ballad about a boy named Hew, whose 
mother was ‘‘lady Hew of Merryland” 
(? England), We was enticed by an apple 
given him by a Jewish damecl, whe 
“stabbed him with a penknife, rolled 


| him in lead, and cast him into a well.” 


Werner is another boy ssid to have 
been crucified by the Jews, The 
of this alleged murder waa 


= 








HUMPHREY. 


William Martin, and others by persons 
wholly unknown 


Humphrey (The good duke), Humphrey 
Plantagenet, uke of Gloucester, youngest 
son of Henry IV., murdered in 1446, 


Humphrey (To dine with duke), to 
without dinner. To stay behind in St. 
Paul's aisles, under pretence of finding 
out the monument of duke Humphrey, 
wrile others more fortunate go home to 


ner. 

*,* It was really the monument of John 
Beauchamp that the ‘‘dinnerléss” hung 
about, and not that of duke alum phrey- 
John Beauchamp died in 1359, and d 
Humphrey in 1446. 

A similar phrase is, ‘‘To be the guest 
of the cross-! knights,” meanin 
the stone effigies in the Round Chu 
(London). Lawyers at one time made 
this church the rendezvous of their 
clienta, and here a host of dinnerless 
vagabonds used to loiter about, in the 
hope of picking up a job which would 
furnish them with the means of getting a 
dinner, 

‘To dine or sup with sir Thomas 
Gresham” means the same thing, the 
Royal Exchange being at one time the 
great lounye of idlers. 

Tho’ little coln thy purseless pockets line, 

et company thou art taken up 3 
For often with duke Humph thou dost dina, 
And often with 1s sup. 
widlibet (epigreym ou a luafer, 1038). 

Huncamunea, (Princess), hter 
of king Arthur and queen Dollallolla, 
beloved by lord Grizzle and Tom Thumb. 
The king promises her in marriage to the 
fiany giant-queller.” Huncamunca 
kills Frizaletta ‘‘for killing her mamma.” 
But Frizaletta killed the queen for killing 
her sweetheart Noodle, and the queen 
killed Noodle because he was the messen- 
ger of ill news.— Zui Thums, by Fielding 
the novelist (1730), altered by O'Hara, 
author of Midis (1778). 

Hunchback (7c). Master Walter 
**the hunchback ” was the guardian of 
Julia, and brought her up in the country, 
training her most strictly in knowledge 
and goodness. When grown to woman- 
houd, she was introduced to sir Thomas 
Clitford, and they plighted their troth to 
each other. Then came achange. Clifford 
lost his title and estates, while Julie went 
to London, became a votary of fashion 
and pleasure, abandoned Clitford, and 

omised marriage to Wilford earl of 
Rochdale. The day of espousals came. 
The love of Julia for Clifford revived, 








HUNDRED-HANDED. 


V———_—— eee 
and she implored her guardian to breaks 
off the obnoxious marri Mastes 
Walter now showed hi to be the 
earl of Roch dale, and the father of Julia 3 

e marriage wi i 
and Julia became the wife of sir Theos 
Clifford.—S. Knowles (1881). 

*,* Similarly, Maria ‘‘the maid of the 
Oaks” was brought up by Oldworth ag 
his ward, but was in reality his mother 
less child.—J. Burgoyne, Maid of the 





Hunchback (The Little), the buffoun of 
the sultan of . Suppin with a 
tailor, the little ow was ki a 
bone sticking in his throat. The tailor, 
out of fear, carried the body to the house 
of a physician, and the physician, stam- 
bling against it, knocked it downstairs. 
Thinking he had killed the man, he let 
the bod 
room of his neighbour, who was a pur- 
veyor. The purveyor, supposing it to be 
a thief, belaboured it soundly ; and 

thinking he had killed the little hrmp- 
back, carried the body into the street, and 
set it against a wall. A Christian mer- 
chant, reeling home, stumbled against the 
body, and gave it a blow with his fist. 
Just then the patrol came up, and arrested 
the merchant for murder. He was con- 
demned to death ; but the purveyor came 
forward and accuscd himeelf of being the 
real offender. The merchant was ac- 
cordingly released, and the purveyor 
condemned to death ; bat then the phy- 


_ sician appeared, and said he had killed 


the man by accident, having knocked 
him downstairs. When the purveyor 
was released, and the physician awa\ 
to execution, the tailor stepped up, and 
told his tale. All were then taken before 
the sultan, and acquitted ; and the sultan 
ordered the case to be enrolled in the 
archives of his kingdom amongst the 
causes oe'lébres.——Arubsan Niyhts (“The 
Little Hunchback "). 


Hundebert, steward to Cedrie of 
Rotherwood.—Sir W. Scott, /eanhoe. 

Hundred Fights (Hero of a), Conn, 
son of Cormac king of Ireland. Called 
in Irish “ Conn Keadcahagh.” 

Arthur Wellesley lord Wellington. 


For this in Rngland’s greatess sen, 
He who gained a hundred Aghts 
Nur ever lost a British gun.— Zenngeen. 


Adwiral Horatio lord Nelson. 
Hundred-Handed ( The). Briar’ece 


(4 ayl.) or Agecon, with his brothers 








HUR AL OYUN. 


Dunlop's Histury of Fiction, See also 
Keightley’s Fury Mythology. It ie also 
the subject of Wieland’s Gberon, which 
gi been translated by Sotheby. 


al Oyiin, the poe 

date hters of paradise, created of pure 
They are free from all bodily 
onkouess and are ever young. Every 
believer will have seventy-two of these 
girls as his heusebold companions in 
ise, and those who desire children 





will see them grow to maturity in an 
hour.—A/ Aordn, Sale's notes. 


Hurgonel (Count), the betrothed of 
Orna sister of duke Gondibert.—Sir Wm. 
Davenant, Gondibert, iii. 1 (died 1668), 


Hurlo-Thrum bo, burlesque which 
had an extraordinary run at the Haymar- 
ket Theatre.—Samuel Johnson (nof Dr. 
8S. Johnson), /furlo-Tirwaho or The 
Supernatural (1730). 


Comeder, then, before. Uke Hurlo-Thromba, 
Feo sim jour ca a any cream oo eerth, 
Thal, by the simple sackhlent of birch, 
Vou miglil have been high pried lo Mumbo-J ambos. 


H , servant of Oldworth of Old- 
worth Oaks. He is always owt of breath, 
wholly unable to keep quict or stand 
etill, and proves the truth of the prov erb, 
“The more haste the worse speed." He 
fancies everything must go wrong if he is 
not bustling about, and be is a constant 


ee. urgeyne, Lhe Muid of the 
erin real li Thad tt tell thom” whe 


retina het this pei e=rnier of oatera, thal in 

= Hurry” le thiew the eure Inte heel Bo of molec 
—_—— = dintmpig & tee ol bile features | Aor =17T a, 
=I. Tim, 


Hurtali, a ciant who reigned in the 
time of the Flood. 

The Masurets affine that Hertall, being tem big to 
inte the ark, oat nets de peor 1, oe chine etree 
heres, —Habelaw, Samtayreed, Ui 1. 

(Minage says that the mbbins assert 
that it was Uy, not Murttli, who thus 
outrodethe Fliwd.—See Le Pelletier, chap. 
zxv. of bis \wuds's Arh.) 


Hush'ai (2 4y/.), in Dryden‘s satire 
af Absdun and Achitophel, is Hyde earl 
of Rochester. As Hlushai was David's 
friend and wise counsellor, 6o was Hyde 
the fricod and wise counsellor of Charles 
J). Aw the counsel of Hushai rendered 
abortive that wf Achitophel, and caused 
the plot of Alwalom tuo miscarry, bo the 
counsel of Iiyde rendered alwrtive Lhat 
of lord Shaftesbury, and cause tne plot 
ot Moumvuth to miscarry. 





oes sew «oe 





468 HYDER ALI KHAN BEHAUDER. 





Huehal, the friend of Duvhi in distress 5 

lo palibe storm of man 

Dy forage beetles be 

Aud jlned experience to luis we Grech. 

Dryden, Slovious aad debdbepaal t (em) 
Hut'cheon, the auld domestic in 
bee Willie's tale,—S8ir W. Seott, 

Redpauntiet (time, George LII.). 


Hut'cheon, - Bae eee re- 
tainers.—Sir tt, the Monastery 
(time, Elizabeth). 


Hutin (Je), Louis X. of France; so 
called from his expedition against "the 
Hutina, a seditious peo noe of Navarre and 
Lyons (1289, 1314-191 


Hy’acinth, son of Am 
Spartan king. He was pla 
with Apollo, when the w desee ths 
quoit of the sun- against the boy's 6 
head, and killed him on the me From 


the blood grew the flower called h wordy al 
6é 


las the 
quoi 


which bears on its petals ™~ wo 
Ar!" (‘alas ! alas !").— 


Hyacinthe (3 sy/.), the ie of 
seigneur Géronte (2 syl.), who passed in 
Tarentum under the assumed name of 
Pandolphe (2 sy/.). When he quitted 
Tarentum, he left behind him his wife and 
daughter Ilyacinthe. Octave (2 sy.) 
son of Argante (2 sy/.) fell in love with 
livacinthe (supposing her surname to be 
Pandelphe), and Octave's futher wanted 
him to marry the daughter of his friend 
seiyneur Geéronte. ‘The y man would 
not listen to his father, and declared that 
Hyacinthe, and Iiyacinthe alone, should 
be his wife. lt was then explained to 
hint that Hyacinthe Pandolphe was the 
same person aa Hyecinthe (séronte, and 
that the choice of father and son were it 
exact accord.—Moliétre, Les Ft de 


| Seaprn (1671), 


(In dhe Cheats of Soapin, Otway’s ver- 
gion of this play, Hyacinthe is called 


| “Clara,” her father Geronte ‘*(GGripe,” and 


Octave is Anglicized into ‘‘ Uctavian.”) 


Hyucinthe (Futher), Charles Loyeon, a 
celebrated pulpit orator and French 
theologian ()/83/- ). 

Hy Brasail, the Gaelic “Island of 
the blest." 

That bright, pases weed ween, Rie Hy Bron, was 
to ber only Gains, delicious dream, —/naré Colleca, 

Hyder (£!), chief of the Ghaut 
Mountains; hero and tithe of a melodrama 
by Barry mere. 

Hyder Ali Khan Behauder, the 
nawaub of Mysore (2 syi.), diaguised us 








IACHIMO. 





L 


Tachimo [ Yak’.i.mo], an Italian liber- 
tine. When Posthu’mus, the husband of 
Inogen, was danished for marrying the 
king's daughter, he went to Rome, and 
in the house of Philaric the conversation 
fell on the fidelity of wives. Posthumus 
bet a diamond ring that nathing could 
change the fidelity of Imo, and 
lachimo accepted the wager. e liber- 
tine contrived to get into a chest in 
lmogen's chamber, made himself master 
of certain details, and took away with 
him a bracelet belonging to Imogen. 
With these vouchers, lachimo easily per- 
suaded Posthumus that he had won the 
bet, and Posthumus handed over i vet, 
the ring. ttle su yently ens 
in which Tachimo nnd ther Romans, 
with Imogen disguised as a page, were 
made prisoners, and brought before kin 
Cymbeline. Imogen was set free, an 
told to ask a boon. She asked that 
aachimo might be compelled to say how 
he came by the ring which he had on his 
finger, and the whole villainy was brought 
to light. Posthumus was pardoned, and 
all ended happily.—Shakespeare, Cymbe- 
bine (1605). 

*,* The tale of Cymbeline is from the 
Decumeron of Boccaccio (day ii. 9), in 
which Iachimo is called ‘* Ambrose,” 
Imogen is ‘ Zineura,” her husband Ber- 
nard ‘“‘ Lomellin,” and Cymbeline is the 
‘‘gultan.” The assumed name of Imo- 
gen is ‘* Fidelé,” but in Boccaccio it is 
*Sicurano da Finale.” 

Ia'go (2 or 3 syi.), ancient of Othello 
commander of the Venetian army, and 
husband of Emilia. Iago hated Othello, 
both because Cassio (a Florentine) was 
promoted to the lieutenancy over his head, 
and also from a suspicion that the Moor 
had tampered with his wife ; but he con- 
cealed his hatred so artfully that Othello 
felt confident of his ‘‘ love and honesty.” 
Jago strung together such a mass of 
circumstantial evidence in proof of Des- 
demona's love for Cassio, that the Moor 
killed her out of jealousy. One main 
argument was that l)esdemona bad given 
Cassio the very handkerchief which 
Othello had piven her as a love-gift; but 
in reaity lavo had induced his wife 
Emilia to purloin the handkerchief. 
When this villainy was brought to light, 
Othello stabbed Iago; but his actual 


commanded it?” 
@han be. Thoe 





IDER. 


death is no incident of the tragedy.— 
Shakespeare, Othello (1611). 
subtle in his designs and stedious st cuce of Bis | 

bs proofs of 


skill in human nature’ se it would’ be vain te eoakt ia eam 
maodern writer.—Dr. Johnson. 

*,* Byron, speaking of John P. Kem- 
ble, says: ‘‘Was not his *I ’ perfection 
— particularly the last look? I was close 
to him, and I never saw an English coun- 
tenance half so expressive.” 


Iambic Verse (The Father of), 
Achil’ochos of Paros (B.c. 714-676). 


Ianthe (3 syi.), mm The 
Richee te sir Wilidten Davenant 





Mrs, Betterton was cafled “ lanthe” by tm tip 
Diary, m havi performed that chorener oe 
hor "sweet vice and tasonparable asting."—W. C. 
Russell, Zepresentative Actors. 

Tan'the (8 syl.), to whom lord B 
dedicated his Childe Harold, was lady 


Charlotte Harley, who was only eleven 
years old at the time (1809). 


Ibe’ria’s Pilot, Christopher Co- 
lambus. Spain is called ‘‘Iberia” and 
the Spaniards the ‘‘lbe’ri.” The river 
Ebro is a corrupt form of the Latin word 


Ibe’rus 
Launebed with Iberia’: plot from the steep, 
To worlds unknown, and isles per the 
Campbell, The Pieusures of Hope, ti. (15 

Iblis (‘‘despair™), called Aza’zil before 
he was cast out of heaven. He 
to pay homage to Adam, and was rejected 
by God.—Al Aordan. 

you, and afterwards formed you, and a}i 
worshipped except Ebliz.” . .. And God mid unto him 
** What hindered i from worshipping Adam, dines I 

e@ answered, ‘‘] am nore excellent 
created me of fire, but him of clay.” 
God said, "Get thee down, therefore, ase 
thou shalt be one of the contemptiule.“—Al Kerdn, vil, 

Ib’rahim or L’Illustre Bassa, 
an heroic romance of Mudlle. de Scadé 
(1641). 

Ice'ni (8 syl.), the people of Suffolk, 
Norfolk, Cambridgeshire, and Huntin 
donshire. Their metropolis was Ven 
(Cuistor, neir Norwich).—Richard ef 
Cirencester, Chronicle, vi. 30. 


The An jes, . . . allured with . .. the fittness of the plass 
Where the Iceni lived, did set their kir.griom down... 


And the East Augies’ ki thoas did luetile. 
Meee petacibton, avi. (i6ish 


Idalia, Venus; so called from 
Lddlium, a (wn in Cyprus, where she was 
worshipped. 


Iden (Alcrunler), a poor squize of 
Kent, who slew Jack Cade the rebel, and 
brought the head to king Henry VL, tor 
which service the king said to kim 

§ 








ILDERTON. 


Tiderton (Miss Lucy and Miss Nancy), 
cousins to Miss Vere.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Black Dwarf (time, Anne), 

Tl'iad (3 sy/.), the tale of tho siege of 
Trov, an epic pom in twenty-four books, 
by Homer. eneldos, king of y wie 
received as a guest Paris, a son of Priam 
king of Troy. Paris eloped with Helen, 
his host's wife, and M induced the 
Greeks to lay siege to Troy, to avenge the 
nerfidy. The siege lasted ten years, when 

roy was taken and burnt to the ground, 
Homer's poem is confined to the last year 
of the siege. . 

Book I, opens with a pestilence in the 
Grecian camp, sent by the sun-god to 
avenge his priest Chrysés. The case is 
this: Chrysés wished to ransom his 
daughter, whom Agamemnon, the Greek 
cvmmander-in-chief, kept as « concu- 
bine, but Agamemnon refused to give her 
up; so the prest prayed to Apollo for 
Vengeance, and the god sent a pestilence, 
A council being called, Achillés 
braids Agamemnon as the cause of the 
divine wrath, and Agamemnon replies he 
will give up the pricat’s daughter, but 
ehall take instead Achillés’s coneubine, 


On hearing this, Achillés declares he | 


will no longer fight for such an ex- 
tortionate king, and accordingly retires 
to his tent and sulks there. 

I]. Jupiter, being induced to take the 
part of Kehillés, now sends to Agamem- 
oon a lying dream, which induces him to 
believe that he shall take the city at once ; 
but in order to see how the soldiers are 


affected by the retirement of Achillés, the | 


king calls them to a council of war, asks 
them if it will not be better to give up 
the sieve and return home. He thinks 
the enldiers will shout ‘‘no” with one 
Voice; but they rush to their ships, and 
would set anil at onee if they were not 
restrained by those privy to the plot, 

Il]. The soldiers, being brought back, 
are then arrayed for battle. Paris pro- 
poses to decide the contest by single 
combat, and Menelaos accepts the chal- 
Jenge. Paris, being overthrown, is carried 
off by Venus, and Agamemnon demands 
that the Trojans should give up Troy in 
fuliilment of the compact. 

IV. While Agamemnon is speaking 
Pandirus draws his bow at Menelaos and 
wounds him, aod the battle becomes 
general. 

V. Pandarus, who had violated the 
truce, is killed by Diomed. 

VI. Lector, the general of the Trojan 
allied armies, recommends that the Tro- 


467 


| point, Shows how the city 


ILLAD. 








jan women in a body should supplicate 
the gods to pardon the sin of Pandarus, 
and in the mean time be and Paris make 
A oy, from the city gate. . 
VII. Heetor fights with Ajax in single 
combat, but the combatants are parted yr 
the heralds, who declare it a drawn 
battle; #9 they exchange gifts and re- 


VIII. The Grecian host, being discom- 
fited, retreats; and Hector prepares to 
assault the enemy's camp, 

IX. A deputation is sent to Achillés, 
but the sulky hero remains obdnrate. 

X. A night attack is made on the Tre- 
jans by Diomed and Ulyssés ; 

XI. And the three Grecian chiefs 
(Agamemnon, Diomed, and Uiyssés) are 
all wounded, 

XII. The Trojans force the gates of 
the Grecian ramparts, 

XIII. A tremendous battle ensues, in 
which many on both sides are slain, 

XIV. While Jupiter is asleep, Nep- 
tune interferes in the quarrel in behalf of 
the Greeks ; 

XV. But Jupiter rebukes him, and 
Apollo, taking the side of the Trojans, 

uts the Grecians to a complete rout. 

e Trojans, exulting in their success, 
prepare to set fire to the Grecian camp. 

XVI. In this extremity, Patroclos 
armya himself in Achillés's armour, and 
leads the Myrmidons to the fight; but he 
is slain by Hector. 

XVII. Achillés is told of the death of 
his friend ; 

XVIII. 


XIX. And is reconciled to Agamemnon, 

XX. A general battle ensues, in which 
the gods are permitted to take part. 

XX1. The battle rages with great fury, 
the slaughter is frightful; but the Tro= 
jans, being routed, retreat into their town, 
and close the cates. 

XXII. Achillés slays Hector before he 
is able to enter the jprates, and the battle 
igatanend. Nothing now remains but 

XXIII. To burn the body of Patroclos, 
and celebrate the funeral games, 

XXIV. Old Priam, poing to the tent of 
Achillés, craves the body of hia son 
Hector; Achillés gives it up, and the 
poem concludes with the funeral rites of 
the Poy hn hero. 

*,* Virgil continues the tale from this 

was taken 
and burnt, and then continues with the 
adventures of Ene'as, who escapes from 
the burning city, makes bis way to Italy, 


| turn to their respective tents, 


Resolves to return to the . 








Ariosto (1474-1533), and Tasso (1544- 
1595). 
The ports read! he o'er ad o'er, 
hy apes the Loumortal Four 
Longfellow, The Wayside fren (prelede). 


Imogen, daughter of Cym'beline 
@ ay/l. king of Britain, married clan- 
estinely Posthumus Leonitus; and Post- 
humus, being banished for the offence, 
retired to Rome. (One day, in the house 
of Philario, the conversation turned on 
the merits of wives, and FPosthumus bet 
his diamond ring that nothing could 
tempt the fidelity of Imogen. lIachimo 
accepted the wayer, laid his plans, and 
after due time imduced Posthumous to 
believe that Imogen had played false, 
showing, by way of proof, a bracelet, 
which ‘be afirmed she had given him; 
BO dporencgee banded over to him the 
ting given him by Imogen at parting. 
Posthumus now ordered his servant 
Pisanio to inveigle Imogen to Milford 
Haven, under pretence of seeing her hus- 
band, and to murder her on the road; 
but Pisanio told Imogen his instructions, 
advised her to enter the service of 
Locius, the Roman peneral in Britain 
as a pace, ond promised that he would 
make Posthunius believe that she was 


dead. This was dene; and not long 


afterwards a battle ensued, in which the | gtabbed the lieutenant-governor, put an 


Romans were defeated, and Lucius, 
lachimo, and Imuzen were taken pri- 
soners. VPosthurmus also took part in 
the ba’tle, and obtained for bis services 
the royal pardon. The captives being 
brought befure Cymbeline, Lucius en- 
trented the king to liberate Imogen. 
The petition was not only granted, but 
Imogen was permitled, at the same time, 
toask a boon of the British king, She 
only begged that Jachimo should inform 
the court how he came by the ring he 
was wearing on his finger. The whole 


villainy was thus revealed, a concilia- | 


tion towk place, and all ended happily. 
en ZISEUKA.)—Shakespeare, Cynubeline 
1605). 
* Jollet.” * Raaalind,” “the lady Comefiance,* ™ 7 
* beady Macbeth,” and the divine “loogen™ [aff Shake 
ihcen cretertere in oc, hive ‘teen a obama, worth 4a 
peeuy revue —JeMin Cmiversity Magarin, 1A 
Im‘ogine (The Fair), the lady be- 
trothed ty Alonzo “the rave,” and who 
said to him, when he wont tothe wars: “If 
ever] marry anether, may thy ghost be 
present at the bridal feast, and Sear me 
otf to the grave.” Alonzo fell in battle ; 
iné marred another; and, at the 








IMPOSTORS. 


marriage feast, Alonzo's ghost, claimi 
the fulfilment of the compact, carri 
away the bride.—M. G, Lewis, Alonzo 
the Brace and the Fair Jimoyine (1795). 


Jm'ogine (The lady), wife of St. Aldo~ 
brand. Before ber marriage, she was 
courted by count Bertram, but the at- 
tachment fell through, becanse Bertram 
was outlawed and became the leader of 
a gang of thieves. It so happened one 





_ day that Bertram, being shipwrecked off 
| the coast of Sicily, was conveyed to the 


castle of lady Imogine, and the old at- 
tachment revived on both sides. Bertram 
murdered St. Aldobrand ; Imogine, goin, 


| mad, expired in the arms of Bertram ; an 
‘Tvertram killed himself.—C. Maturin, 


Bertram (1816). 


Imoin'da (3 syl.), daughter of a 
white man, who went to the court of 
Angola, changed his religion, and grew 
great as commander of the forces. His 
daughter was married to prince Oroonoko, 
Soon afterwards the young prince waa 
trapanned by captain Driver, taken te 
Surinam, and seld for a alave. Here he 
met his young wife, whom the lieutenant- 
governor wanted to make his mistress, 
and Qroonoko header a rising of the slaves. 
The end of the story is that Imoinda 
slew herself; and Oroonoko, having 


end to his own life.—Thomas Southern, 
OUroonoky (1696). 


Impertinent (The Cwrious), ap 
Italian, who, to make trinl of his wife's 
fidelity, persuades his friend to try and 
seduce her. The frend sneceeds in win- 
ni‘ the lady's love, and the impertinent 
curiosity of the hushand is punished by 
the loss of his friend and wife too,— 
Cervantes, Jon Quirote, 1. iv. & (an 
episode, 1605). 


SL DOSOER (Literary). 

1, Bertram (Dr. Charles Julius), pro- 
fessorof ees atCopenhagen, Hegave 
out that he discovered, in 1747, in the 
library of that city, a book entitled De 
Situ Britunnia, by Richardus Corinensis, 
Iie published this with two other treatises 
(one by Gildas Badon‘icus, and the other 
by Nennoius Banchorensis) in 1757, The 
forgery was exposed by J. E. Mayor, in 
his preface to Nicardi de Cirencestria 
Speculum fistoriale, 

2. Cuattenton (Thomas) polished, 
in 1777, a volume of poems, which he 
ogy to be from the pen of Thomas 

owley, a monk of the fifteenth century, 





a 


INCHCAPE ROCK. 





To these add Cicconi, Bindocci, Sestini ; 


the brothers Cl of Holland, Wolf 
Altdna, warz Germany, 
Eugene de el of France, and our 


swn Thomas Hood (1798-1845). 


Inchcape Rock (The), east of the 
Isle of May, twelve miles from all land 
In the German Sea. Here a warning bell 
was tloated on a buoy by the forethought 
of an abbot of Aberbrothok. Southey 
sayathat Ralph the Rover, in a mischievous 
ke, cut the bell from the buoy, and it 
ll into the sea ; bat on his return voyage 


A similar story is told of St Goven’s 
bell, in Pembrokeshire. The silver bei] 
was stolen one night from the chapel by 
pirates ; but no sooner had their boat put 
out to sea than all the crew were wrecked. 
The silver bel] was carried by sea-nym 
to a well, and whenever the stone of 
well is etruck the bell is heard to moan. 


Inconstant (The), a comedy by G. 
Farquhar (1702). ‘‘The inconstant” is 
young Mirabel, who shilly-shallies with 
Oria‘na till she saves him from being 
murdered by four bravoes in the house of 
Lamorce (2 sy/.). 

This comedy is a réchauffé of the Wild- 

va by Beaumont and Fietcher 
1652). 


Incorruptible (The). Maximilien 
Robespierre was so called by his friends 
in the Revolution (1756-1794). 

‘William Shippen,” says Horace Wal- 

res the only man proof against a 

ri aa 

@,* Fabricius, the Roman hero, could 
not be corrupted by bribes, nor influenced 
by threats. [TP yrrhus declared it would be 
as easy to divert the sun from its course 
as Fabricius from the path of duty.— 
Roman Story. 


In’cubus, a spirit half human and 
half anyeiic, living in mid-air between 
the moon and our carth.—Geoffrey, Bri- 
tish Histury, vi. 18 (1142). 


Indian File, one by one. The 
American Indians, when they go on an 
attack, march one by one. The one 
bebind carefully steps in the foot-marks 
af the one before, and the last of the file 


471 


ae + 


INEZ DE CASTRO. 


obliterates the foot-prints. By this 
means their direction and number are net 
detected 





Fach man followed his leader in 
Burnaby, On SZerseback through Asia Miner (18771. 

Indra, of the elements. His 
palace is secribed by Southey in Jas 
Curse of Kehama, vii. 10 (1809). 


Inesilla de Cantarilla, ter 
of a Spanish lute-maker. She anf oe 


unu power of charming the male sex 
during the whole course of her life, which 
exceeded 75 years. Idolized by the noble- 
men of the old co she saw herself 
adored by those of new. Even in 
her old age she had a nobdie air, an en- 
chanting wit, and graces peculiar to her- 
self suited to her years.— Lesage, Gil 


Blas, viii. 1 (1785). 
addressed in Childe 


I'nez of Cadiz, 

Harold, i. (after stanza 6&4). Nothing 
known of her. 

I'nez (Donna), mother of don Juan. 
She trained her son according to pre- 
scribed rules with the strictest propriety 
and designed to make him a model of al 
virtues. Her husband was don José, 
whom she worried to death by her prudery 
and want of sympathy. Donna Inez 
was a ‘‘blue-stocking,” learned in all 
the sciences, her favourite one being 
‘“Sthe mathematical.” She knew every 
Euro lan ‘Sa little Latin and 
less Greek.” In a word, she was “ per- 
fect as perfect is,” according to the 
standard of Miss worth, Mrs. Trim- 
mer, and Hannah More, but had “a 

t opinion of her own good qualities.” 

ike Tennyson's ‘‘ Maud,” this paragon 

of women was, to those who did not look 

too narrowly, ‘ faultily faultless, icily 

regular, splendidly null.”"—Byron, Don 
Juan, i. 10-30 (1819). 


Inez de Castro, crowned six years 
after her death. The tale is this: Don 
Pedro, son of Alfonso 1V. of Portugal, 

rivately married, in 1345, the “‘ beauty of 

‘astile,” and Alfonso was so indi t 
that he commanded her to be put to 
(1355). Two years afterwards, don Pedro 
succeeded to the crown, and in 1361 had 
the body of Inez exhumed and crowned. 

Camoens, the Portuguese has 
introduced this story in his , + ae 

erreira, another Portuguese a 

y called Jnez de Castro 71554) « 
Lamotte produced a tragedy with 
same title (1728); and Guiraud ancthes 
in 1826. (See next art.) 








INFERNO. 





478 





INI, 





wealth. Crossing this region, they come 
to the “ fifth steep," and see the Stygian 
Lake of inky hue. This circle iso hope 
bog in which ‘the miry tribe” tlounder, 
ond “gulp the muddy lees.” It is the 
abode of those who put no restraint upon 
their anger (canto vil.). Next comes the 
city of Dia, where the soula of heretics 
are “ interred in vadlts" (cantos viil., 1x.). 
Here Danté recognizes Farina'ta (a leader 
of the Ghibelline faction), and is in- 
formed that the emperor Frederick II. 
and cardinal Ubaldini are amongst the 
number (canto x.). The city of Dis con- 
taina the next three circles (canto xi.), 
through which Nessus conducts them ; 
and here they see the Minotaur and the 
Centaurs, as Chiron who nursed Achillés 
and Pholus the passionate, The firat 
circle of Dis (the sixth) is for those who 
by force or frand have dune violence 
to man, as Alexander the tireat, Dio- 
nytius of Syracuse, Attila, Sextus, and 
Pyrrhus (canto xii.). The next (the 
seventh circle) is for those who have done 
violence to themselocs, ns suicides ; here 
are the Harpies, and here the scula are 
transformed to treea (canto xili.). The 
eighth circle is for the souls of those 
he have done violence to (rod, as blas- 
phemers and heretics ; itis a hell of burmn- 
ing, Where it snows finkes of fire. Ilere 
is Cap’aneus (3 sy/.) (canto xiv.), and 
here Wanté held converse with Drunetto, 
his old achowlmaster (canto xv.). Hav- 
ing reached the confines of the realm 
of Dis, Ger'yon carrica Danté into the 
eee of Malébolyé (4 sy/.), a horrible 
hell, containing ten pits or chasms (canto 
xvil.): Inthe first is Jason; the sceond 
is for harlots (canto xviii.) ; in the third 
is Simon Magus, “‘ who prostituted the 
things of God fur gold ;" in the fourth, 
pope Nicholas II. (canto xix.); in the 
fifth, the ghosts bad their heads “ re- 
versed at the neck-bone,” and here are 
Amphiarios, Tirtsias who was first a 
woman and then a man, Michael Seott 
the magician, with all witches and 
diviners (canto xx.) ; in the sixth, Caia- 
pbhas and Annas his father-in-law (canto 
Exi.); in the seventh, mbborm of 
churches, as Vanni Fucci, who robbed the 
eacriaty of St. James's, in Pistoia, and 
charged Vanni della Nona with the crime, 
for which she anffered death (canto 
xxiv.) ; in the eychth, Ulyssés and Din- 
med, who were punished for the strata- 
gem of the Wooden Llorse (cantea XxVI., 
MAVii.); in the ninth, Mahomet and Ali, 
“horribly mangled" (canto xxviii.) ; in 





the tenth, alchemists (canto xxix.), 
eniners and forgers, Potiphar's wife, 
Sinon the Greek who delgded the Tro 
jans (canto xxx.), Nimrod, Ephialtéa, 
aod Anteus, with other giants (canto 
xxxi.). Antwus carries the two visitors 
into the nethermost gulf, where Judas 
and ere r ch Mi prepen It is o 
region of thick-ribbed ice, and here they 
see the frozen river of Coc "tus (canto 
xxxii.). The last persons the poet sees 
are Brutua and Cassius, the murderers of 
Julius Caesar (canto xxxiv.). Danté 
and his conductor Virgil then make 
their exit on the “ southern hemi- 
7 oe where once was Eden, and where 

e “moon rises when here evening seta.” 
This ia done that the poet may visit 

rgatory, which is situate in mid-ocean, 
somewhere near the antipodes of Jndea, 

*,” Canto xvi. opens with « descriptiog 
of Frand, canto xxxiii. contains the tale 
of Uyoli'no, and canto xxxiv. the da- 
ecription of Lucifer, 


Ingelram (Abbot), formerly superior 
of St. Mary's Convent.—Sir W, Scot 
The Monastery (time, Elizabeth), 

lewood (Sjuire), = magistrate 
near Osbaldistone Hlall.—Sir W. Scott, 
fivh Roy (time, George I.). 


Inglis (Corporal), in the royal army 


| under the leadership of the duke of Mon- 


mouth.—Sir W. Scott, ld 
(time, Charles II.), 


I lds Thomas), the Rev, 
Richard Te tamees hoon of Jn 


Mortality 


| goldsby Leyends (1788-1845), 


Ini, Ine, or Ina, king of Weasex 3 
his wife was A-thelburh; both were of the 
royal line of Cerdic. After a grand ban- 
quet, king Ini set forth to sojourn in 
another of his palaces, and his queen 
privately instructed his steward to “fill 
the house they quitted with rubbish and 
offal, to put a sow and litter of piga in 
the royal bed, and entirely dismantle the 
room." When the king and queen had 
gone about a mile or so, the queen en- 
treated her husband to return to the house 
they had quitted, and great was his 
astonishment to behvld the change. 
/Ethelburh then anid, “Behold what 
vanity of vanities is all earthly greatness [ 
Where now are the good things you saw 
here bot a few hours ago? See huw foul 
a beaat occupies the royal bed, So will 
1 be with you, unless you leave earth) 
things four heavenly.” So the king ab 
eated his kingdom, went to Rome, and 








ION. 475 





Medea rendered Jason proof against 
wounds and fire by anointing him with 
the Promethe’an ent.—Ureek Fable. 

Siegfried was ered invulnerable by 
bathing his body in dragon's bluod.— 
Niebelungen Lied. 


Ion, the title and hero of a tragedy by 
T. N. Talfourd (1835). The oracle of 
Delphi had declared that the pestilence 
which raged in Argos was sent by way of 
punishment for the misrule of the race 
of Argos, and that the vengeance of the 
gods could be averted only by the extir- 


pition of the guilty race. lon, the son 
of the king, offered himself a willi 
sacrifice, and as he was dying, Irus en 


and announced that “the pestilence was 
abating.” 


To’na, an island of Scotland south of 
Staffa, noted for its Culdee institutions, 
established by St. Columb in 563. It is 
aow called ‘ Icolm-kill,” and in Afacteth, 
act ii. sc. 4, ‘‘Colmes-kill” (A:é means 
* burying-ground”). 

v they left Iona's strand 
When the opal morn frst flushed the sky. 
Campbell, Zeullura. 

Io’na’s Saint, St. Columb, seen on 
the top of the church spires, on certain 
evenings every year, counting the sur- 
rounding islands, to see that none of them 
have been sunk by the power of witchcraft. 

As lona’s mint, a giant form, 
Throned on his towers conversing with the storm . .. 
Counts every wave-worn ble and awuntain hoar 
Frew Kilda to the green lerne’s shore[/rom the Hebrides 
eo ireland} 
fhe Pleasures of Hope, ti. (1798). 

I-pal-ne-mo'-ani (i.e. He by whom 
we iwe), an epithet of God used by the 
ancient Mexicans. 

po res eT 
Gouthey, Madvs, 1 8 (1808). 


Iphigeni’a, daughter of Agamem- 
non king of Argos. Ayamemnon vowed 
to offer up to Artémis the best possession 
that came into his hands during the 
ensuing twelve months. This happened 
to be an infant dauyhter, to whom he 

ve the nawe of Iphigenia, but he for- 

»re to fulfil his vow. When he went on 
his voyage to Troy, the ticet was wind- 
bound at Aulis, and Kalchas the priest 
said it was because Ayamemnon had not 
carried out bis vow ; sv Iphiyenia, then 
in the pride of womanhood, was bound 
to the altar. Artemis, being satistied, 
carried the maiden off to Tauris where 
she became a pricstess, and substituted a 
hind ia her place. 


IRELAND. 


For parallel instances, such as Abrae 
ham and Isaac, Jephthah and his daughter, 
Idomeneus and 


is son, etc., see Ino- 
MENKUS, 


When, a new Iphigene, she went te Tauris. 
Byron, Dea Juan, =. 49 (1881). 
Cary, in his translation of Danté 
accents the name incorrectly on the third 
syliable. 

Whence, on the altar Iphigenia mourned. 

Her virgin beauty. 
Dant, Peradics, v. (311), 
Iphis, the woman who was 

to a man. The tale is this: Iphis was 
the daughter of Lygdus and Telethusa 
of Crete. Lygdus gave orders that if the 
child about to be born was a girl, it was 
to be put to death. It hap to bea 
girl ; bat the mother, to save it, t it 
up as a boy. In due time, the er 
betrothed Tphis to Ianthé, and the mother, 
in terror, prayed to Isis for help. wae 
rayer was » for Isis changed i 
Into a man on the day of es a 
Ovid, Metuph., ix. 12; xiv. 699. 
' ae Ceneus [ Se.nuce was born of the 
emale sex, but Neptune changed her 
into a man. /inéas found her in hadés 
changod back again. 
Tirésias, the Theban prophet, was con- 
verted into a girl for ing two ser- 
pents, and married. He afterwards 
recovered his sex, and declared that the 
pleasures of a woman were tenfold greater 
than those of a man. 


I’'ran, the empire of Persia. 


Tras, a female attendant on Cleo 
When Cleopatra bad arrayed herself with 
tobe and crown, prior to applying the 
asps, she said to her two female attend- 
ants, ‘‘ Come, take the last warmth of my 
lips. Farewell, kind Charmian! Iras, fare- 
well!” And having kissed them, Iras fell 
down dead, either broken-hearted, or else 
because she had already applied an asp to 
her arm, as Charmian did a little later. 
—Shakespeare, Antony and 
(1608). 


Ireby (Ar.), a country squire.—Sir 
W. Scott, Zuo Drovers (time, George III.). 
Ireland (S. W. #.), a literary forger. 
His chief forgery is Miscaitancous 
Papers and Instruments, under the hand 
and seal of William Shake » ine 
cludiny the trayedy of Kin , and a 
small frayment of Hamlet, the 
ores , 1796, folio, £4 48. (1795). 

jis most impudent forgery was the 
ion of a new play, which he tried 











IROLITA., 


that the supposed poison is innocuous, 
and tells them so, whereupon Iroldo 
eo struck with his fricnd’s generosity, 
that he quits Babylon, leaving Tisbina to 
Prasildo. Su uently Iroldo’s life is 
in peril, and Prasildo saves his friend at 
the hazard of his own life.—Bojardo, 
Orlando Innamorato (1495). 


Irolit’a, a princess in love with prince 
Parcinus, her cousin. The fairy Dan’amo 
wanted Parcinus to marry her danghter 
Az’ira, and therefore used all her endea- 
vours to marry Irolita to Brutus; but all 
ber plans were thwarted, for Parcinus 
married Irolita, and Brutus married 





The beaaty of Irolita was worthy the work!'s aimire- 
She was about 14 years old, her halr was brown, 

blooming as the her mouth deli. 
dart of love Comtesse D Aunoy, Fairy Tales (‘* Portest 
Love,” 1032). 

Iron Arm. Captain Francois de 
Lanoue, a huguenot, was called Bras de 
Fer. He died at the siege of Lamballe 
(1531-1591). 


Iron Chest (7he), a drama by G. 
Colman, based on W. Godwin’s novel of 
Caleb Willams. Sir Edward Mortimer 
kept in an iron chest certain documents 
relating to a murder for which he had 
been tried and honourably acquitted. His 
secretary Wilford, out of curiosity, was 
prying into this box, when sir Edward 
entered and threatened to shoot him; 
but on reflection he spared the young 
man’s life, told him al] about the murder, 
and swore him to secrecy. Wilford, 
unable to endure the watchful and sus- 
icious eye of his master, ran away; 
t sir Edward doyged him like a blood- 
hound, and at length accused him of 
robbery. The charge could not be sub- 
stantiated, so Wilford was acquitted. 
Sir Edward confessed himself a murderer, 
and died (1796). 


Iron Duke (The), the duke of Wel- 
lington (1769-1852). 

Iron Emperor (The), Nicholas of 
BRassia (1796, 1826-1855). 


Iron Gates or Demir Kara, a cele- 
brated of the Teuthras, through 
which caravans between Smyma and 
Brusa must nceds pass. 


Iron Hand, Goetz von Berlichingen, 
who replaced his right hand, which he 
lost at the sieve of Landshut, by an iron 
ene (sixteenth century). 


TF 


477 


IRREFRAGABLE DOCTOR. 


*,* Goethe has made this the subject af 
* 
an historical drama. 

Iron Mask (The Man in the). This 
mysterious man went by the name of 
Lestang, but who he was is as much m 
nubibus as the author of the Letters 
Junius. The most general opinion is that 
he was count Er’colo Antonio Matthioli 
a senator of Mantua and private 
Ferdinand Charles duke of Mantua; and 
that his long imprisonment of twenty-four 
years was for having deceived Louis XIV. 
in a secret for the purchase of the 
fortress of Casale. M. Loiseleur utterly 
denies this solution of the m -—Beo 
Temple Bar, 182-4, May, 1872. 

*,* The ies of Zechokke in 
German (1795), and Fournierin French, are 

on the supposition that the man in 
the mask was marechal Richelieu, a twin- 
brother of the Grand M. and this 
is the solution given by the abb:¢ Soulavie. 


Ironside (Sir) called ‘The Red 
Knight of the Lands.” Sir Gareth, 
after fighting with him from dawn to 
dewy eve, subdued him. Tennyson calls 
him Death, and says that G won the 
victory witha single stroke. Sir Ironside 
was the knight who kept the lady Lionés 
{called by Tennyson “ Lyonors”) captiveim 

tle Perilous.—Sir T. Malory, Hi 
of Prince Arthur, i. 184-187 (1470). 

*,* Tennyson seems very greatly to 
have misconceived the exquisite allegory 
of aot and Linet. (See GARETH, pp. 








Tronside. Edmund II. king of the 
Anglo-Saxons was so called from his 
iron armour (989, 1016-1017). 

Sir Richard Steele signed himself 
‘© Nestor Ironside” in the Guardian 
(1671-1729). 


Ironsides. So were the soldiers of 
Cromwell called, especially after the 
battle of Marston Moor, where they dis- 
played their iron resolution (1644). 


Tronsides (Captain), uncle of Belfield 
(Brothers), and an old friend of sir Ben~ 
jamin Dove. He is captain ofa pri 
and a fine specimen of an English na 
officer. 

He's true Engtish oak to the heart of him, and a fine 
old sraman-like figure be is.—Cumbesiand, fae Srethera, 

Iron Tooth, Frederick II. elector of 
Pig} neere (Dent de Fer), (1657, 1688~ 


Irrefragable Doctor (The), Ales- 








ISABELLA. 





yf wife of Hieronimo, in The 
Spanish Tropecy, by Thomas Kyd (1388). 
mother of Ludov’ico Sforza 


Isabella, ; 
duke of Milan.—Massinger, Zhe Duhe of 
Milan (1622). 


Isabella, a nun who marries Biron 
eldest son of count Baldwin, who disin- 
herits him for this marriage. Biron 
enters the army, and is sent to the 
siege of Candy, where he falls, and (it is 
supposed) dies. For seven years |! 
meurns her loss, and is then reduced 
to the utmost want. In her distress she 

assistance of her father-in-law, but 
he drives her from the house as a dog. 
Villeroy (2 yi.) offers her marri and 
she accepts him ; but the da her 
copousals Biron returns. Carlos, hearing 
his brother’s return, employs ruffians 
to murder him, and then charges Villeroy 
with the crime; but one of the ruffians 
impeaches, and Carlos is apprehended. 
Teabella mad, and murders herself 
in her distraction.—Thomas Southern, 
The Fatal Marriage (1692). 

The part of “*Iabella ” affords scope for a tragic actress 
ecarcely inferior in pathos to *’ Be! "—R. Chambers, 
Buglish Litcrature, |. 588, 

(Mrs. E. Barry, says T. Campbell, was 
enrivalled in this part, 1682-1783.) 

*,.* Wm. Hamilton painted Mrs. 
Siddons as ‘‘Isabella,” and the picture 
belongs to the nation. 


Isabella, the coadjutor of Zanya in his 
acheme of revenge against don Alonzo.— 
Young, The Revenje (1721). 

Isabella, princess of Sicily, in love 
with Roberto il Diavolo, but promised in 
marriage to the prince of Granada, who 
challenges Koberto to mortal combat, 
from which he is allured by Bertram his 
fierd-father. Alice tells him that Isabella 
is waiting for him at the altar, when a 
struggle ensnes between Bertram and 
Alice, one trying to drag him into hell, 
and the other trying to reclaim him to 
the ways of virtue. Alice at length pre- 
rails, but we are not told whether Roberto 
marries the princess.—Meyerbeer, Kuberto 
i Diavolo (1431). 

Isabella (Donna), daughter of don Pedro 
& Portuguese nobleman. who designed to 
marry her to don Guzman, a geatle- 


mar of large fortune. To avoxi this 





ISABINDA. 


hateful marriage, she 
window, with a view of escaping from 
the house, and is caught by a colonel 
Briton, an English officer, who conducts 
her to the house of her friend donna 
Violanté. Here the colonel calls upon 
her, and don Felix, supposing Violanté 
to be the object of his visits, becomes 
furiously jealous. After a considerable 
em broglio, the mystery is cleared up, and 
a double marriage takes | 
Centlivre, The Wonder (1714). 
Middile-cised, a lovely brown, a fine pouting lip, 
Isabella (The comtess), wife of Roberto. 
After a long series of crimes of 
to her husband, and of murder, she 
brought to execution.—John 
diets of Women or Sophomeba 
1 ° ° 


Isabella (The lady), a beautiful young 
girl, who accompanied her father on a 
chase. Her step-mother requested her 
to return, and the cook to prepare the 
milk-white doe fordinner. Lady Isabella 
did as she was told, and the cook repli 
‘‘Thou art the doe that I must dress. 
The scullion-boy exclaimed, ‘‘Oh save the 
lady's life, and make thy pies of me!” 
But the cook heeded him not. When the 
lord returned and asked for his daughter, 
the scullion-boy made answer, ‘if my 
lord would see his daughter, let him cut 
the pasty before him.” The father, 
horrified at the whole affair, adjudged 
the step-mother to be burnt alive, and 
the cook to stand in boiling lead, but the 
scullion-boy he made his heir.—Percy, 
Reliques, iii. 2. 

Isabelle, sister cf Léonor, an orphan; 
brought up by lie according to 
his own notions of training a girl to make 
him a good wife. She was to dress in 
serge, to keep to the house, to occupy 
herself in domestic affairs, to sew, knit, 
and look after the linen, to no 
flattery, attend no places of public 
amusement, never to be left to her own 
devices, but to run in harness like a 
mill-horse. The resalt was net ne 
duped Sganarelle and married 
(See Lftonon.) — Moliere, L'école des 

aris (1661). 





umps from & 


Isabinda, daughter of sir Jealous 
Traffick a merchant. Her father is re 
solved she shall marry don Diego Bare 
binetto, but she is in love with Char’es 
Gripe; and Charles, in the dress uf 4 
Spaniard, passing off as 








ISLE OF MIST. 481 





ISOND. 





*,* Lucian hasa similar conceit, called 
The City of Lanterns ; and dean Swift, in 
his iver's Truvels, makes his hero visit 
Laputa, which is an empire of quacks, 
false projectors, and pretenders to science. 


Isle of Mist, the Isle of Sky, whose 
high hills are almost always shrouded in 
mist. 

Nor sleep thy hand by thy side, chisf of the Isle of Mist. 
—Oesian, Magal, L 


Islington (The marquis of), one of 
the companions of Billy Harlow the noted 
archer. Henry VIII. jocosely created 
Barlow ‘‘duke of Shoreditch,” and his 
two companions ‘‘earl of Pancras” and 
** marquis of Islington.” 


Ismael “the Infidel,” one of the 
Immortal Guard.—Sir W. Scott, Count 
Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 


Isme’ne and Isme’nias, a love 
story in Greek by Eustathius, in thetwelfth 
century. It is puetile in its delineation 
of character, and full of plagiarisms; but 
many of its details have been copied 
by D'Urfé, Montemayor, and others. 
Ismené is the ‘‘ dear and near and true” 
lady of Isme’nias. 

*,* Through the translation by God- 
frey of Viterbo, the tale of Jsmené and 
Ismenias forms the basis of Gower's 
Corfessio Amantis, and Shakespeare's 
Periclés Prince of Tyre. 

Isme'no, a magician, once a Christian, 
but afterwards a renegade to Islam. He 
was killed by a stone hurled from an 
enrine.— Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered, xviii. 
(1575). 


Isoc'rates (The French), Esprit 
Fléchier, bishop of Nismes (1632-1710). 


Isoline (3 syl.), the high-minded and 
hervic daughter of the French governor of 
Messi’na, and bride of Fernando (son of 
Juho of Procida). Isoline was true to 
her husband, and truce to her father, who 
had opposite interests in Sicily. 
fell victims to the butchery culled the 
* Sicilian Vespers” (March 30, 1282), and 
Iseline died of a breken  heart.—S. 
Knowles, Juin of Procida (1840), 


Isolt. There are two ladies connected 
with Arthurian romance of this name: 
one, Isolt ‘the Fair," daughter of Anguish 
king of Ireland ; and the other Isolt “ of 
the White Hands,” dauyhter of [lowell 
king of Brittany. Isolt the Fuir was the 
wife of sir Mark king of Cornwall, but 
Isolt of the White Hands was the wife of 
sir Tr'stram. Sir Tristram loved Isolt 


21 


Both - 


the Fair ; and Isolt hated sir Mark, her 
husband, with the same_measure that she 
loved sir Tristram, her nephew-in-law. 
Tennyson's tale of the death of sir Tris- 
tram is so at variance with the romance, 
that it must be given separately. He 
says that sir Tristram was one day 
dallying with Ieolt the Fair, and a 
ruby carcanet round her neck. en, 
as he kissed her throat : 


Out of the dark, the had toushed, 


Bele ond, daughter of Anguish Ling of 
ughter 

Ireland. hen sir Tristram nuished 
sir Marhaus, he went to | to be 
cured of his wounds. La Beale Isond 
was his leech, and fell in love with him ; 
but she married sir Mark the dastard 
king of Cornwall. This i was 
very unhappy, for Isond hated k as 
much as she loved sir Tristram, with 
whom she eloped and lived in Joyous 
Guard Castle, but was in tame restored to 
her husband, and Tristram married Isond 
the Fuir-handed. In the process of time, 
Tristram, being severely wounded, sent for 
La Beale Isond, who alone could cure him, 
and if the lady consented to come the 
vessel was to hoist a white flag. The 
ship hove in sight, and Tristram's wife, out 
of jealousy, told him it carried a 

at the mast-head. On hearing this, sir 
Tristram fell back on his bed, and died. 
When La Beale Isond landed, and heard 
that sir Tristram was dead, she flung 
herself on the body, and died also. The 
two were buried in one grave, on which 
& rose and vine were planted, which grew 
up and so intermingled thcir branches 
that no man could scparate them.—Sir T. 
Malory, Histury of Prince Arthur, ii. 
(1470). 

*.* Sir Palimedes the Saracen (i.¢, 
unbaptized) also loved La Beale Isond, 
but met with no encouragement. Sir 
Kay Hedius died for love of her.— History 
of Prince Arthur, ii. 172. 

Isond le Blanch Mains, daughter of 
Howell king of Britain (ic. Brittany). 
Sir Tristram fell in love with her for 
name's sake ; but, though he married her, 
his love for La Beale Isond, wife of his 
uncle Mark, grew stronger and stronger. 
When sir Tristram was dying and sent 
for his uncle's wife, it was Isoud le 
Sfuins who told him the ship was in sight, 
but carried a black at the mas 
on hearing which sir Tristram bowed his 

g 





ITHURIEL. 


word means ‘‘ God's discovery.”)— 
ilton, Paradise Lost, iv. 788 (1668). 
ithurie?’'s Spear, the spear of the angel 

Ithuriel, whose slightest touch exposed 

deceit. Hence, when Satan sq like 

a toad “close to the ear of Eve,” 

Ithuriel only touched the creature with 

his spear, and it resumed the form of 
tan. 


- . « for no falsehood can endure 
Touch of celestial tamper, but returns 
Of force to Its own likeness. 
Milton, Paradise Lost, tv. (1665). 
Ithu'riel, the guardian angel of Judas 

Iscariot. After Satan entered into the 
heart of the traitor, Ithuriel was given to 
Simon Peter as his second angel.—Klop- 
stock, Zhe Messiah, iii. and iv. (1748, 
1771). 


Ivan the Terrible, Ivan IV. of 
Russia, a man of great energy, but in- 
famous for his cruelties. It was he who 
first adopted the title of czar (1529, 
1583-1584). 

I’'vanhoe (3 sy/.), a novel by sir W. 
Scott (1820). The most brilliant and 
splendid of romances in any language. 
Rebecca, the Jewess, was Scott’s favourite 
character. The scene is laid in England 
in the reign of Kichard I., and we are 
introduced to Robin Hood in Sherwood 
Forest, banquets in Saxon halls, tourna- 
ments, and all the pomp of ancient 
chivalry. Rowena, the heroine, is quite 
thrown into the shade by the gentle, 
meek, yet high-souled Rebecca. 


Icanhoe (Sir Wilfred knight of), the 
favourite of Richard I., and the disin- 
herited son of Cedric of Kotherwood. 
JDiayuised as a palmer, he goes to Kother- 
wood, and meets there Rowe’na his father’s 
ward, with whom he falls in love; but 
we hear little more of him except as the 
fnend of Kebecca and her father Isaac of 
York, to both of whom he shows repeated 
acts of kindness, and completely wins 
the affections of the beautiful Jewess. 
In the grand tournament, Ivanhoe 
[/’.cas.ho] appears as the ‘* Desdichado ” 
or the ‘‘ Disinherited Knight,” and over- 
throws all comers. King Kichard pleads 
for him to Vedric, reconciles the father to 
his son, and the young knight wmarnes 
Rowena.—Sir W. Scott, Jvanhoe (time, 
Richard I.). 


Ivan’ovitch (son of Ivan or John), 
the popular name of a Kussian. Similar 
in construction to our ‘‘John-son,"’ the 
Danish ‘* Jan-sen,” and the Scotch ‘' Mac- 





483 





IVY LANE. 


*,* The popular name of the English 
as a people is John Bull; of the Germans, 
Cousin Michael; of the French, Jean 
Crapaud ; of the Chinese, John China- 
man; of the Americans, Brother Jon- 
athan ; of the Welsh, Taffy; of the Scotch, 
Sandy ; of the Swiss, Colin Tampon; of 
the Russians, [vanovitch, ete. 


Iverach (Allan), or steward of Invera- 
schalloch with Gallraith, at the Clachan 
of Aberfoyle.—Sir W. Scott, Rob Roy 
(time, George I.). 


Ives (St.), originally called 
Its name was changed in honour of 
Ive, a Persian missionary. 
From Persia, led by seal, St. Ive this island sought, 
And near our eastern fensa Gt place fading, taught 
The faith ; which plnce frum him alone the name 
Aud of that saluted man has since been called St. ives. 
Drayton, Polyolbion, xxiv. (2688), 
Ivory Gate of Dreams. Dreams 
which delude through the svory gate, 
but those which come true through the 
horn gate. This whim depends upon two 
puns: Ivory, in Greek, is e/€phas, and the 
verb clephairo means ‘‘to cheat;” horn, 
in Greek, is seras, and the verb karande 
means ‘‘to accomplish.” 


Sunt gemingw somni ports, quarum altera ferter 
Cornea, qua veri. facilis datar oxitus umbris ; 
Altera candend perfecta nitens elephanto, 
Sed falea ad calum mittunt insomnia Manes. 
Virgil, .Knetd, vi 893-6, 
From gate of horn or Ivory, dreams are sent; 
These to deceive, and those for warning meast. 


Ivory Shoulder. Deméter ate the 
shoulder of Pelops, served up by Tan’- 
talos ; so when the gods restored the 
body to life, Demeter supplied the lack- 
ing shoulder by one made of ivory. 

ythay’oras had a golden thigh, which 
he showed to Ab’aris the Hyperbortau 
priest. 
Not Pelope’ shealder whiter than her hands, 
Nor snowy swans that jet on Lsca's annda. 

Wm. Browne, Sritannia’s Pastorals, U. 3 (1613). 

Ivory Tube of prince Ali, a 
sort of telescope, which showed the per- 
son who looked through it whatever he 
wished most to see.—Arabian Nights 
(‘‘ Abmed and Pari-Banou”). 


Ivry, in France, famous for the battle 
won by Henry of Navarre over the 
League (1590). 

Hurrah | burrab! a single Geld 
Hath turned the chance of war, 
Hurrah ! hurrah ! for Ivry, 


And Henry of Navarre. 
Lord Macaulay, Lays (“ Ivry,* 180%, 


Ivy Lane, London; so called from 
the houses of the prebendaries of &, 
Paul, overgrown with ivy, which ones 
stood there. 





JACK AND JILL, 





485 


a 
JACK-WITH-A-LANTERN. 





Jack and Jill, said to be the Saxon 
and Norman stocks united. 


Jack and Ji!) went up the hill, 
To feteh « pall of water; 
eck hod crackel ila crown, 
And Jil) came Wumbling arter. 
Aurcery Liam, 
Or thus: 


_, Dut homely Ergitah exnil ; 


And tho’ wolied in thelr alm, 
Were severed in thelr fall 


Jack and the Bean-Stalk. Jack 
was a very poor lad, sent by his mother 


to sell a cow, which he parted with to a | 
His mother, in | 
her rage, threw the beans away; but one | 


butcher for a few leans. 


of them grew —< the night as high 
as the heavens. Jack climbed the stalk, 
and, by the direction of a fairy, came to 


a giant's castle, where he beywed foodand © 


rest. This he did thrice, and in his three 
visits stole the giant's red hen which \aid 
golden egzs, hia money-bags, and his 

rp. As he ran off with the last trea- 
sure, the harp cried out, ‘' Master! 
master!" which woke the giant, who 
ran after Jack; but the nimble lad cut 
the bean-stalk with an axe, and the yiant 
was killed in his fall. 

*,* This is said to be an allegory of 
the Teutonic Al-fader: the ‘red ben" 
representing the all-producing sun, the 
‘‘money-bags” tlic fertilizing min, and 
the ‘‘ harp” the winds. 


Jack-in-the-Green, one of the 
ay-day mummers. 


*,* Dr. Owen Pugh says that Jack-in- | 


the-Green represents Melvas king of 
Somersetshire, disyuised in green boughs 
and lying in ambush for queen Guenever 
the wife of king Arthur, as she was 
returning from a hunting expedition, 


Jack-o’-Lent, 2 kind of aunt Selly 
set up during Lent to be pitched at; hence 
a puppet, a shecjish booby, a boy-page, 
w scarecrow. Mirs. |'aye says to Hobin, 
Falstaff's page : 

You little Jack-a-Lent. hare you been true to us t— 
Shakeapoare, Merry iiirw of Windsor, act. UL m, 3 
(16u3). 

Jack of Newbury, John Winch- 
comb, the greatest clothier of the world 
in ‘ae reign of Ilenry VIII. [le kept a 
hundred looms in lis uwn house at New- 
bury, and equipped at his own expense 
a bumired of lis men to aid the king 
oe the Scvtch in Flodden Fiel 
(1612). 





Jack Robinson. This fameus 
comic song is by Hudson, tobacconiat, 
No. 98, Shoe Lane, London, in the early 

rt.of the ninetcenth century. The last 

ing ia, ‘And he was off before you could 


| say ‘Jack Robinson.’” The tane to which 


the words are sung is the Sailors’ Horn- 


pipe. Halliwell quotes these two lines 
from an ‘old play: ™ 
A warke it 75 os eae to be doone 
As ‘tye to oye, Jacks / rolps on, 
Archaic Dictionary. 
Jack Sprat, of nursery rhymes, 
mare eee, 
And so betwixt ‘om both, 
They licked the platter clean, 
Jack the Giant-Killer, a series of 
nursery tales to show the mastery of skill 
and wit over brute strength. Jack en- 


counters various giants, but outwits them 
all. The following would illustrate the 
Bort of combat: Suppose they came to a 
thick iron door, the giant would belabour 
it with his club hour after hour without 
effect ; but Jack would apply a delicate 
key, and the door would open at once, 
This is not one of the stories, but will 
serve to illustrate the sundry contests. 
Jack was a “valiant Cornishman," and 
hia first exploit waa to kill the giant 
Cormoran, by digging a deep pit which 
he filmed over with proas, etc, The giant 
fell into the pit, and Jack knocked him 
on the head with a hatchet. Jack after- 
wards obtained a coat of invisibility, a 
cap of knowledge, a resistlesa sword, and 
shoes of swiftness; and, thus armed, he 
almost rid Wales of its giants. 


for Jack the Glant-kilher lb clearly the last molern 
trnonutation of the vld Beitiah legend til’ ty Ge ffrey 
of Monnwath, of Corin the Tron, the companion 
of the Trojan Brutus when be first sted in Britala.— 


Jack-with-a-Lantern. This me- 
teoric phenomenon, when seen on the 
ground or a little above it, is called by 
sundry names, as Lrenningsimke, Burn- 
ing candle, Corpse candles, Dank Will, 
Death-fires, Dick-a-Tuesday, Elf-fire, the 
Fair maid of Jreland, Friar’a lantern, 
Gillion-a-burnt-tail, Gy] Burnt-tail, Ignis 
futuus, Jack-o'-lantern, Jack-with-a-lao- 
tern, Kit-o'-the-canstick, Kitty-wi'-a- 
wisp, Mad Crisp, Peg-a-lantern, Pack, 
Robin Goodfellow, Shot stars, Spittle of 
the stars, Star jelly, a Sylham lamp, a 
Walking fire, Wandering fires, Wandering 
wild-fire, Will-with-a-wisp, 

Those jed astray by these “ fool-fires” 
“3 asid to be Elf-led, Mab-led, or Puck- 








JAIRUS’S DAUGHTER. 


eyes set very deep in his head, | 
suspicions black dots where his beard 
and whiskers would have been if he had 
let them. His hands smelt strongly of 
scented soap, he wore a very large watch- 
chain, was in the constant babit of biting 
his on he toed and when he spoke to any 
bend fore-4 nger at him 
juntdly. “a d, logical man was Mr. 
who required, an answer to be 
yea” or “‘no,” allowed no one to express 
an opinion, but only to state facts in the 
fewest ae words. _Magwitch ap- 
and he was 
rine Hivishac : man of business.—C. 
Dickens, Great Expectations (1860). 


fe by Jesus taealied opstock Cidli. 
esus, is 
—Klopstock, The Messiah | iv. (1771). 
Jalft, the Arabic name for Goliath.— 
Sale, Ai Korda, xvii. 


James (Prince), youngest son of king 
Robert Ii. of Seotland, in introduced b ir 
W. Scott in The Fair Maid of 
(1828). 


James I. of England, introduced by 
sir W. Scott in The Fortunes of Nye 
(1822). 

Ja ‘mie Don), younger brother of don 
Henri “ane ); by whom he is cruell 
t umont and Fletcher, 7) 
Spanish C Curate (1622). 


Jamie Duffs. Weepers are so called, 
from a noted Scotchman of the eighteenth 
century, whose craze wasto follow funerals 
in dee mourning costume.—Kay, Ori 
ytnal Portraits, i. 7; ii. 9, 17, 95. 


Ja’mieson (Bet), nurse at Dr. Gray’s, 
surgeon at Middlemas.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Surycon’s Duwyhter (time, George 

) 

Jamshid, king of the genii, famous 
for a golden cup filled with the elixir of 
life. The cup was hidden by the genii, 
but found mhen digging the foundations 
of Persepolis 

1 know, too, where the geafl hid 
The cup of their king Jamehid, 


With life's ollxir 
T. Moore, Lalla RuokA |" the Pert,” 1827). 


Jane Eyre, heroine of a novel so 
called by Currer Bell. 

Jan’et, the Scotch laundress of David 
Ramany the watchmaker.—Sir W. Scott, 
Furtunes of Niyel (time, James I.). 


Jan’et of Tomahourich (Afuhme), 
aunt of Robin Uig M’Combich a Highland 




















drover.—Sir W. Scott, The Tio Drovers 
ar oe. III.). 


annekin (Littl )» apprentice af 
Hon Smith the armourer.—Sir 
ate Fair Maid of Perth (time, Henry 


Jannie Duff, with her little sister 
and brother, were sent to er broom, 
and were lost in the b (Australia). 
The ts called in the aid o 

and on 


native blacks to find th 
iscovered. 
eried the little boy, “(why 


the ninth day they were 

‘6 Father,” 

didn’t you ¢ me before? We cooed quite 
loud, but you never came.” The sister 
only said, “Cold!” and sank in stupor. 
Jannie had stri herself to cover little 
Frank, and spread her frock over ber 
sister to keep her warm, and there all 
three were found almost dead, lying 
under a bush. 


Janot [Zha.no], a simpleton, one whe 
exercises silly ingenuity or says vapid 
and silly things. 

Without pete ted cael Core pometiones im oes 


and May. January isan 
old  tombard baron, some 60 years of 


who marries a girl nam:d May. 
young wife loves Dam an, a you 
squire. One day, the old baron 28 
them in close em race; but May persuaded 
her husband that his eyes were so dim he 
had made a mistake, and the old baron, 
too willing to believe, allowed himself to 
give credit to the tale.—Chaucer, 

ry Tales (‘‘ The Merchant's Tale ” 1388). 

*,° Modernized by Ogle (1741). 


J aquemart, the automata of a clock, 
consisting of a man and woman who 
strike the hours on a bell. So called 
from Jean Jaquemart of Dijon, a clock- 
maker, who devised this piece of mechan-~ 
ism. Menage erroneously derives the 
word from jaccomarchiardus (‘‘a coat of 
mail”), ‘‘ because watchmen watched the 
clock of Dijon fitted with a jaquemart.” 


Jaquenetta, acountry wench courted 
by dan Adriano de Armado.—Shake- 
speare, Love’s Labour's Lost (1594). 


Jaques (1 sy/.), one of the lords at- 
tendant on the banished duke in the 
forest of Arden. A philosophic idler, 
cynical, sullen, contemplative, and mo- 
ralizing. THe could “suck melancholy 
out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs. 

Jaques resents Orlando's passion a foe 
Rosalind, and quits the duke as soon as 








JAUP. 


——. w -  , 
489 JEDBURGH JUSTICE. 

perticular in the character of the geutleman of thelr George Colman (1761). Harriot Russet 

ST tekinc and there \- arcink In hie eyme’= C. Dicnomm mares Mr. Oakly, and becomes “the 

Phe Old Curtesity Shop, xxvill. (1840). ealous wife;" but is ultimately cured 


Jaup (Alison), an old woman at 
Middlemas village.-“Sir W. Scott, The 
Suryeon’s Daughter (time, George II.). 

Jaup (Saunders), a farmer at Old St. 
Ronan's.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan’s Well 
(time, George III.). 


Javan lost his father on the day of his 
birth, and was brought up in the “ patri- 
arch’s glen | by his mother, till she also 
died. He then sojourned for ten years 
with the race of Cain, and became the 
disciple of Jubal the mhusicizn. 
He then returned to the glen, and fell in 
‘ove with Zillah; but the glen being 
imvaded by giants, Zillah and Javan, 
with many others, were taken captives. 
Enoch reproved the giants; and, as he 
ascended up to heaven, his mantle fell 
en Javan, who released the captives, and 
conducted them back to the glen. The 

zante were panic-struck by a tempest, 
ond their king was killed by some un- 
known hand.—James Montgomery, The 
World before the Flood (1812). 


Ja'van’s Issue, the Jonians and 
ureeks generally (Gen. x. 2). Milton 
ases the expression in Puradise Lost, i. 


*.° In Jsaiah Ixvi. 19, and in Ezek. 
xxvii. 13, the word is used for Greeks 
collectively. 


Javert, an officer of police, the im- 
rsonation of inexorable law.—Victor 
lugo, Les dsfiserables. 


Ja'zer,a city of Gad, personified by 
Jeaiah. ‘‘Moab shall how] for Moab, 
every one shall howl. ... I will be- 
wail, with the weeping of Jazer, the vine 
of Sibmah; I will water thee with my 
tears, O Heshbon.”—/saiah xvi. 7-9. 

"It 4id not content the congregation to all of 
@heee ; but they howled with a loud voice, weeping with 
the weeping of Jazer.—Airkton, 150. 

Jealous Trafiick (Sir), a rich mer- 
chant, who fancies everything Spanish is 
better than English, and intends his 
daughter Isabinda to marry don Diego 
Barbinetto, who is expected to arrive 
forthwith. Isabinda is in love with 
Charles [(iripe], who dresses in a Spanish 
costume, passes himself off as don Diexo 
Barbinetto, and is married to Isabinda. 
Sir Jealous is irritable, headstrong, pre- 
judiced, and wise in his own conceit.— 

re. Centlivre. Zhe Busy Body (170%). 


so2lous Wife (The), a comedy by 


y the interposition of major y, her 
brother-in-law. 
*,* This comedy is founded on Field- 
ing’s Tom Jones. 


Jeames de la Pluche, a fiunky. 
Jeames means the same thing.—Thacke- 
ray, Jeames's Diary (1849). 


Jean des Vignes, a French expres- 
sion for a drunken blockhead, a good. 
for-nothing. The name Jean is oftem 
used in France as synonymous with 
clown or fool, and etre dans les vignes is 
a popular euphuism meaning ‘to be 
drunk.” A more fanciful explanation of 
the term refers its origin to the battle of 
Poictiers, fought by king John among 
thevines. Un mariage de Jean des Vi: 
means an illicit marriage, or, in the ing. 
lish equivalent, “a hedge marriage.” 


Jean Folle Farine, a merry An- 
drew, a pvor fool, a Tom Novdle. do 
called because he comes on the stage like 
a great loutish boy, dressed all in white, 
with hi» face, hair, and hands thickly 
covered with flour. Scaramouch is a 
sort of Jean Folle Farine. 

Ouida has a novel called Folle Farine, 
but-she uses the phrase in quite another 
sense. 


Jean Jacques. So J. J. Rousseay 
is often called (1712-1778). 

That is almost the enly maxim of Jean Jacques to 
which I can... subscribe.—Lord Lytton. 

Jean Paul. J. P. Friedrich Richter 
is generally so called (1763-1825). 


Jeanne of Alsace, a giil ruined by 
Dubosc the highwayman. She gives him 
up to justice, in order to do a goud tam 
to Julie Lesurques (2 sy/.), who had be- 
friended her.—E. Stirling, Zhe Courier 
of Lyuns (1852). 


Jedburgh, Jeddart, or Jedwood 
Justice, hang first and try afterwards. 
The custom rose from the summary way 
of dealing with border marauders. 

*,* Jeddart and Jedwood are merely 
corruptions of Jedburgh. ; 

Cupar Justice is the saine thing- 

Abinjdon Lau, the same as ‘‘ Jedbargh 
Justice.” In the Commonwealth, major 

eneral Brown, of Abingdon, ‘rst hanged 
is prisoners and then tried them. 

Lynch Law, wod law. So called from 
Jamea Lynch of Piedmont, iu Virginia. 








JENKIN. 


bare "Robert G 
Green, the Pinner of We 





on the 


(1584). 


Jenkin, ono of the retainers of Julian 
Avenel (2 aul.) of Avenel Castle.—Sir 
W. Scott, Monastery (time, Eliza- 

Jenkins (Mrs. Wwifred), ‘Miss 
Tabitha Bramble's maid, noted for ae 
bed spelling, misapplication of wo 
and weir misnomers. Mrs. Winifred 
Jankins is the original of Mrs. Malaprop. 
-Smollett, The Expedition of Humphry 
Clinker (1771). 

Jenkins, a vulgar lick-spittle of the 
aristocracy, who retails therr praises and 
witticisms, records their movements and 
deeds, gives flaming accounts of their 
dresses and parties, either viea voce or in 
newspaper phs: ‘‘ Lord and lady 
Dash attended divine rervice last Sunday, 
and were very attentive to the sermon” 
(wonderful !). ‘‘Lord and lady Dash took 
a drive or walk last Monday in their 
magnificent park of Snobdoodleham. 
Lady Dash wore a mantle of rich silk, 
a bonnet with ostrich feathers, and shoes 
with rosettes.” The name is said to 
have been first given by Punch to a 
writer in the Morning Pet. 

Jenkinson (Ephraim), & green old 
swindler, whom Dr. Primrose met in a 
public tavern. Imposed on by his vener- 
able appearance, apparent devoutness, 
learned talk about ‘‘cusmogony,” an 
still more so by his flattery of the doctor's 
work on the subject of monogamy, Dr. 
Primrose sold the swindler his horse, 
Old Blackberry, for a draft upon Farmer 
Flamborough. When the draft was pre- 
sented for ent, the farmer told the 
vicar that Ephraim Jenkinson ‘‘ was the 

test rascal under heaven,” and that 

e was the very rogue who had sold 
Moses Primrose the spectacles. Subse- 

uently the vicar found him in the count 
jail, where he showed the vicar great kind- 
ness, did him valuable service, became a 
reformed character, and probably married 
one of the daughters of Farmer Flam- 
wee ee Vicar of Wakefield 

1765). 

For our own part, we must admit that we have never 
been able to treat with due gravity any allusion to the 
learned speculativuus of Man‘etho, Herv'nus, or Sanchoni'. 
athon. from their indisoluble connection In our mind 
with the Gnished cosmagony of Jonkinson.— Aneye. Brit., 
Ast. " Romance,” 

Jennie, housekeeper to the ald laird 
of Dumbiedikes.—Sir W. Scott, Beart of 
Midlothian (time, George 11.). 


- 





491 











JEPHTHAH’S DAUGHTER, 
Jenny [Diver]. 


Captain Macheath 
says, ‘ my p Jenny ! as prim 
and demure as ever? ere’s nota 


though ever so high bred, hath a more 
sanctifed look, with a more mischievous 


heart.” She pretends to love Macheath, 
bat craftily secures one of his pi that 
his other *‘ pals” may the more easily be- 


tray him into the hands of the constables 
act ii. 1).—J. Gay, The Beyyar's Opera 

1727). 
of a 


Jenny )’Ouvridére, the 
hard-working Parisian’ oman. 


She is contented with a few window- ~ 
flowers which she terms ‘“‘her garden,” a 
caged bird which she calls ‘‘her songster ;” 
and when she gives the fragments of her 


food to some one poorer than herself, she 
calls it “ her delight.” 


Emile Baratene (1867). 


Jeph’thah’s Daughter. When 
went forth against the Am- 
monites, he vowed that if he returned 
victorious he would sacrifice, as a burnt 
offering, whatever first mct him on his 
entrance into his native city. He gai 

a splendid victory, and at the news 
thereof his only daughter came fortn 
dancing to give him welcome. The 
miserable father rent his clothes in y, 
but the noble-spirited maiden would not 
hear of his violating the vow. She 
demanded a short respite, to bewail upon 
the mountains her blighted hope of 
coming a mother, and then submitted to 
her fate.—Judyes xi. 

An almost identical tale is told of 
Idom’eneus king of Crete. On his retarn 
from the Trojan war, he made a vow ina 
tempest that, if he escaped, he would offer 
to Neptune the first living creature that 
presented itself to his eye on the Cretan 
shore. His own son was there to welcome 
him home, and Idomeneus offered him up 
a sacrifice to the sca-god, according to his 
vow. Fénelon has introduced this legend 
in his Télémaque, v. 

Agamemnon vowed to Diana, if he 
might be blessed with achild, that he would 
sacrifice to her the dearest of all his 
sessions. Iphigenia, his infant 
was, of course, his ‘‘ dearest on ;° 
but he refused to sacrifice her, and thus 
incurred the wrath of the goddess, which 
resulted int ee ebioenie, being of = 

eet at Aulis, igenia bei 
wacrifice, the offended deity was satisfied, 





JERVIS. 498 


JEW. 





eae in twenty books, by Torquato Tasso | 


1575). 

The crusaders, having encamped on the 
plains of Torto’sa, choose Godfrey for 
their chief. The overtures of Aryantés 
being declined, war is declared by him in 
the name of the kiug of Eyvypt. The 
Christian army reaches Jerusalem, but it 
is found that the city cannot be taken 
without the aid of Rinaldo, who had with- 
drawn from the army because Godfrey 
had cited him for the death of Girnando, 
whom he had slain in a duel. Godf 
sends to the enchanted island of Armi'da 
to invite the hero back, and on his return 
Jerusalem is assailed in a night attack. 
The poem concludes with the triumphant 
entry of the Christians into the Holy 
uty, and theiradoration at the Redeemer's 
tomb. 

The two chicf episodes are the loves of 
Olindo and Sophronia, and of Tancred 
and Corinda. 


Jervis (Ars.), the virtuous house- 
keeper of young squire Bb. Mrs. Jervis 
protects Pam'ela when her young master 
assails her.—Richardsun, Lunela or 
Virtue Rewarded (1740). 


Jessamy, the son of colonel Oldboy. 
He changed his name in compliment to 
lord Jessamy, who adopted him and left 
him his heir. Jessamy is an affected, 
conceited prig, who dresses as a fop, 
carries a muif to keep his bands warm, 
and likes old china better than a pretty 
virl, ‘This popinjay proposes to Clarissa 
Nowerdale ; but she despises him, much 
to his indignation and astonishment.— 
Bickerstatf, Lionel and Clarissa (1785- 
1790). 

He's a coxcomb, a fop, a dainty milksop, 
Who emenced and dizened from buttom to top, 

And looked like a dull fruin a milliner’s shop... 

He shrugs and tikes snuff, and carries a muff, 

4 minickin, Auicking, French puwlered putt LL 

Jessamy Bride (Tie), Mary Hor- 
neck, with whom Goldsmith fell in love 
in 1769. 

Jes’sica, daughter of Shylock the 
Jew. She clopes with Lorenzo.—Shake- 
speare, Werchunt of Venice (1597). 

Jessica cannot be called a sketch, or, if a sketch, she ts 
dashed of In glowing colour from the rainbow of 


a kubens. She hasa rich tut of Urientalism over 
—Mrs. Jamewun. 


Jesters. (See Fuo.s.) 

Jests (The Futher of), Joseph or Joe 
Miller, an English comic actor, whose 
pame has become a household word fur a 
stale joke (168i-17u3). The book of 


jests which goes by his name was come 
piled by Mr. Mottley the dramatist 
(1739). Joe Miller himself never uttered 
a jest in his life, and it is a /ucus a non 
lucendo to father them on such a tacitarn, 
commonplace dullard. 


Jesus Christ and the Clay 
Bird. The Aordn says: ‘O Jesus, son 
of Mary, remember . . . when thou didst 
create of clay the figure of abird..., 
and did b e thereon, and it became a 
bird ! "—Ch. v. 

The allusion is to a legend that Jesus was 
playing with other children who amused 
themselves with making clay birds, but 
when the child Jesus breathed on the one 
He had made, it pnstantly Taphal New 
and flew away.—Hone, Apoer ew 
Testument (1820). 


Jew (The), a comedy by R. Cumber- 
land (1776), pritten to disabuse the 

ublic mind of unjust prejudices against 
p people who have been long “ scattered 
and peeled.” The Jew is Sheva, who 
was rescued at Cadiz from an auto da fe 
by don Carlos, and from a howling Lon- 
don mob by the son of don Carlus, called 
Charles Ratcliffe. His whole life is spent 
in unostentatious benevolence, but his 
modesty is equal to his philanthropy. 
He gives £10,000 as a marriage portion 
to Ratclitfe’s sister, who marries Fre- 
derick Bertram, and he makes Charles the 
heir of all his property. 


Jew (The). 
This is the Jew 
That Shakespeare 


This couplet was written by Pope, and 
refers to the “Shylock” of Charles 
Macklin (1690-1797). 

Jew (The Wandering). 

1. Of Greek traditwn. Arts’T a 
poct, who continued to appear and dis~ 
appear alternately for above 400 ycars, 
and who visited all the mythical nations 
of the earth. 

2. Uf Jewish story. Tradition says 
that Cartarn’iLos, the door-keeper of 
the judgment hall in the service of Pon- 
tius Pilate, struck our Lord as he led Him 
forth, saying, ‘‘Get on! Faster, Jesus!” 
Whereupon the Man of Sorrows replied, 
“Fam going; but tarry theu till 1 come 
[ayain].” ‘This man afterwards became 
a Christian, and was baptized by Ananias 
under the name uf Joseph. Every hun- 
dred years he falls into a trance, out of 
which he rises again at the age of 30. 

*.* The earliest account of the Wan- 
dering Jew is in thr. Bouk of the Chronicien 








JINGOES. 











_> ee 


JOBLING. 





in his Welsh wars, and the Plan- 
nets held the Basque provinces in 
ion. This Basque oath is a land- 

mark of these facts. 


Jingoes (The), the anti-Russians in 
the war between Russia and Turkey ; 
hence the Eaglish war party. The term 
arose (1878) from a popular music-hall 
song, beginning thus: 

We don't want to fight ; but by Jingo if we do, 
We've got the ships, we've got the men, we've got tha 
money too. 

(This song has also furnished the 
words jinyuism (bragging war spirit, 
Bobedilism) and the adjective jinyo.) 


Jiniwin (2rs.), a widow, the mother 
of Mrs. Quilp. A shrewd, ill-tempered 
old woman, who lived with her son-in- 
law in Tower Street.—C. Dickens, Zhe 
Old Curiosity Shop (1840). 


Jinker (Licutenant Jamie), horse- 
dealer at Doune.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George II.). 


Jinn, plu. of Jinnee, a sort of fairy 
in Arabian mythology, the offspring of 
fire. The jinn propagate their species like 
human beings, and are governed by kings 
called sulevmans. Their chief abode 1s 
the mountain Kaf, and they appear to 
men under the forms of serpents, dogs, 
cats, etc., which become invisible at 

leasure. Evil jinn are hideously ugly, 
Put good jinn are exquisitely beautiful. 

*,* Jinnistan means the country of 
the jinn. The connection of Solomon 
with the jinn is a mere blunder, arisin 
from the similanty of suleyman an 
Solomon. 


J. J., in Hogarth’s ‘Gin Line,” 
written on a gibbet, is sir Joseph Jekyll, 
obnoxious for his bill for increasing the 
duty on gin. 

*,* Jean Jacques [Rousseau] was 
often referred to by these initials in the 
eighteenth century. 


Jo, 8 poor little outcast, living in one 
of the back slums of London, called 
‘©Tom All-alone’s.” The little human 
waif is hounded about from place to place 
tiJi he dies of want.—C. Dickens, Bleak 
Huuse (1853). 


Joan. Cromwell's wife was always 
called Joan by the cavaliers, although 
ber real name was Elizabeth. 


Joan, princess of France, affianced to 
the duke of Orleans.—Sir W. Scott, 
Quentin Durtcurd (time, Edward 1V.). 


Joan of Arc, surnamed La Pucelle, 
born in a village upon the marches of 
Barre, called Domremy, near Vaucouleurs. 
Her father was James of Arc, and her 
mother Isabel, r country-folk, who 
brought up their child to keep their 
cattle. Joan professed to be inspired to 
liberate France from the English, and 
actually raised the siege of Orleans, after 
Wet Charles II. was crowned (1402- 

431). 


*,* Schiller has a tragedy on the sub- 
e 
ject, Juny frau von Orleans (1801) ; Soumet 
another, Jeanne d'Arc (1825). Besides 
Southey’s epic, we have one by Francais 
Czaneaux; another by Chapelain, ed 
La Pucelle (1656), on which he laboured 
for thirty years. Cassimir Delavigne 
has an admirable el on The Maid 
(1816), and Voltaire a burlesque. 


Joanna, the ‘deserted dauyhter” of 
Mr. Mordent. Her father abandoned her 
in order to marry lady Anne, and his 
money-broker placed her under the 
charge of Mrs. Enfield, who kept a house 
of intrigue. Cheveril fell in love with 
Joanna, and described her as having 
‘‘blue eyes, auburn hair, aquiline nose, 
ivory tecth, carnation lips, a ravishing 
mouth, enchanting neck, a form divine, 
and the face of an angel."”—Holcroft, The 
Deserted Daujhter (altered into The 
Stewurd). 


Job and Elspat, father and mother 
of sergeant Houghton.—Sir W. Scott, 
Watcericy (time, George IT.). 


Job’s Wife. Some call ber Rahma 
daughter of Ephraim son of Joseph; an 
others call her Makhir, daughter of Ma- 
nasses.—Sale, Aurdn, xxi. note. 


Joblillies (7he), the small gentry 
of a village, the squire being the Graad 
Panjandrum. 


There were t the Picninnies, and the Jobliliies, 
and the Garyulies, and the Grand Panjandrum himsel.— 
8. Foute, The Quarterly Review, ucv. 616-7. 

Jobling, medical officertothe “‘ Anglo- 
Bengalee Company.” Mr. Jobling was a 
portentous and most carefully dressed 





mE. eH A aS 


John, the driver of the Queen's Ferry 
diligence.—Sir W. Scott, Ze Antijuary 
(time, George III.). 

John (Don), brother of Leonato governor 
of Messina, whom he hates. In order 
to torment the governor, don John tries 
to mar the happiness of his daughter 
Hero, who is about to be married to 
lord Claudio. Don John tells Claudio 
that his fiancee has promised him a ren- 
dezvous by moonlight, and if Claudio 
will hide in the garden he may witnesa it. 
The villain had bribed the waiting-woman 
of Hero to dress up in her mistresa’s 
clothes and to give him this interview. 
Claudio believes the woman to be Hero, 
and when the bride appears ai the altar 
next morning he rejects her with scorn, 
The truth, however, comes to light; don 
John takes himeelf to flight; and Hero 
is married to lord Claudio, the man of her 
choice.—Shakespeare, Mucii Avo about 
Nothing (1600). 

I have ssen the great Henderson [1747-17]... . Hh 
“don John” ts a comic “Cato,” wild bile “ Homlet™ 
&@ mixture of . comedy, pastoral, (arcs, andl iun- 
eonse.—David (1775). 

John (Friar), a tall, lean, wide-mouthed, 
long-nosed friar of Seville, whodespatched 
his matins and vigils quicker than any of 
his fraternity. Ie swore like a trooper, 
and fought like a Trojan. When the 
army from Lemé pillayed tho convent 
vineyard, friar John seized (he staff of a 
cross and pummelled the roves without 
mercy, beating out brains, smashing 
lim cracking ribs, gashing faces, 


breaking jaws, dislocating join‘s, in the | 


most approved Christian fnshiun, and 
never was corn so mauled by the finil as 
were these pillagers by ‘‘ the liaton of the 
eross,""—Rabelais, Garyantiii, i. 27 (Loc), 

*,* Of course, this is a satire of what 
are called Christian or relijrious wars, 


John (Hing), a tragedy by Shakespenre 
1508). This drama is founded on Ihe 
irst and Second Parts of the Trowhles 
some Raijne of Juhn King of /njland, ete, 
As they were sundry times puldichly acted 
Yy the Queenes M-tjesties pliyera in the 
fonuurable Cite of London (1591), 
In ° Macbeth,” “Hamlet,” “ Wolsey,” “ Qorinianm,* 
and “lang Juhn.” hel Admund Kean, 1787-25 never 


sp cceche within any measurable ditiainee of he leurted, 
ca and majestic Kembla —(juarier/y Seriew 


W. C. Macready [1713-1873], In the mene where he 

aiestea to “ Hubert” the murder of “ Arihur.” wea 
masterly, and his reprerotation of death by pulaon was 
true, forcible, and te: ific.—Talfuurd. 


*,° Aynje Johan, a drama of the 
transition stale between the moralities and 


| who makes 








a_i eee, 


tragedy. Of the historical persons intro- 
duced we have king John, pope Innocent, 
cardinal Pandulphus, Stephen 

etc, ; and of alleyorical personages we hava 
Widewed Uritannia, Imperial Majesty, 
Nobility, Clery, Civil Order, Treason, 
Verity, and Sedition. This play waa 
published in 1838 by the Camden Society, 
under the care of Mr. Collier (about 
1550), 


John (Little), one of the companions of 
Robin Hood.—Sir W. Seott, Zhe Taliee 
man (time, Kichard I.), 


John (Prester), According to Mande- 
ville, Prester John was a lineal descendant 
ofOvierthe Dane. This Ogier penetrated 
into the north of India with fifteen barons of 
his own country, among whom he divided 
the land. Juhn was made sovereign of 
Tenedac, and waa called Prester because 
he converted the nativea, 

Another tradition says he had seven 
kings for his vassals, and was seen by hie 
subjects only three times a year, 

Marco Polo says that Prester John was 
the khan Ung, who was slain in battle by 
Jenehiz Khan, in 1202, He was converted 
by the Nestoriana, and his baptismal name 
was John. Gregory Bar-Hebneus, says 
that God forsook him because he had 
taken to himself a wife of the Zinish 
nation, called ()uarakhata, 

Otto of Freisinven is the first author 
mention of Prester Jobn. 
His chronicle is brought down to the 
year 1156, and in it we are assured that 
this most mysterious personage was of 


| the family of the Magi, and ruled over the 


country of these Wise Men. ‘* He used” 
(according to Otto) ‘a sceptre made of 
emeralds,” 

liiahop Jordiinus, in his description of 
the world, sets down Abyssinia as the 
kingdom of reater John. At one time 
Ans xine went by the name of Middle 
peti he: 

Maimonidés meutions Prester Joh 
ani calla him Preste-Cuan, The date o 
Maimonidés is 1135-1204, 

*.” ltefore 124! « letter was addressed 
by D’rester John to Manuel Comne'‘nus, 
emperor of Constantinople, It is to be 
found in the Chroniwle of Albericus Trium 
Fontiun, who gives the date us 1165, 

In Ariosto'’s Uriando Furioso, xvii 
Prester John is called Sena’pas king of 
Kthiopia., Ife was blind. Though the 
richest monarch of the world, he pined 
“in plenty with endless famine,” because 
harpies carried off his food whenever the 

3 








JOHNSON. 


499 


- ae oD 


JORDAN. 








Johnson (Dr. Samuel), lexi 
grapher, connie: and poet (1709-1784). 


theme his art, 

thunder or a rumbling cart, 
Peter Pindar (Dr. John Woloot) (1816). 
saronnstone eo Pegey thy’ lnuadeys 
an, er to e - 
maid at Woodburne. 
Johastore, his son.—Sir W. 
Scott, Mannering (time, George II.). 

Johnstone’s Tippet (5t.), a halter. 

Joliffe (2 aul.) footman to lady Pen- 
feather.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan's Well 
(time, George ITII.). 

Joliffe (Joceline), under-keeper of 
Woodstock Forest.—Sir W. Scott, Wood- 
stock (time, Commonwealth). _ 

J oliquet (Bibo), the garcon of the 
White Lion inn, held by Jerome Le- 
surques (2 sy/.).—Edward Stirling, The 
Courier of Lyons (1852). 

Jollup (Sir Jacob), father of Mrs. 
Jerry Sneak and Mrs. Bruin. Jollup 
is the vulgar pomposo landlord of Gar- 
ratt, who insists on being always ad- 
dressed as ‘“‘ sir Jacob.” 

Bie J. Gari adrvah? and s - 
rascal’ Ie that all your manasnt Has bis’ majong 
dabbed me knight, you to make me a mister 
Foote, Phe Mayor of Gerrate, |. 1 (1763). 

Jolter. In the agony of terror, on 
hearing the direction given to put on the 
head-lights in a storm off Calais, Smol- 
lett tells us that Jolter went through the 
steps of a mathematical proposition with 
great fervour instead of a prayer. 

Jonas, the name given, in Absalom and 
Achitophel, to sir William Jones, judge 
of the Lrish court of Common Pleas under 
James[. Itisa pun onthename.—Dry- 
den, Absalom and Achitophel, i. (1681). 

Jonathan, a sleek old widower. He 
was a parish orphan, whom sir Benjamin 
Dove apprenticed, and then took into his 
family. When Jonathan married, the 
knight gave him a farm rent free and 
well stocked. On the death of his wife, 
he gave up the farm, and entered the 
knivht’s service as butler. Under the 
evil influence of lady Dove, this old 
servant was inclined to neglect his kind 
master; but sir Benjamin soon showed 
him that, although the lady was allowed 


a | 


to peck him, the servants were not.—R. 
Cumberland, The Brothers (1769). 

Jonathan, one of the servants of 
general Harrison.—Sir W. Scott, Wood- 
stock (time, Commonwealth). 
Sew Scott, Peveril * Che Peak i 

ir W. ° time, 

Charles II.). v ( 

Jonathan (Brother), a national nick- 
name for an American the United 
States. In the Revolutionary war, 
Washington used to consult his friend 
Jonathan Trumbull, governor of Con- 
necticut, in all his difficulties. ‘We 
must ask brother Jonathan,” was so often 
on his lipe, that the phrase became sy- 
nonymous with the good ius of 
States, and was subsequen 
the North Americans generally. 

Jonathan’s, a noted 
"Change Alley, described in The Tatler 
as the “‘ general mart for stock-jobbers.” 
What is now termed “‘The Royal Stock 
Exchange” was at one time called 
*¢ Jonathan's.” 

Yesterday the brokers and others 


coffee-house in 


Jones (7om), the hero of a novel 

Fielding, called The History of Tom Jones, 
a Foundling (1749). Tom Jones is a 
model of generosity, openness, and manly 
spirit, mingled wi oughtless dissipa- 
tion. With all this, he is not to 
admired; his reputation is flawed, he 
sponges for a guines, he cannot pay his 
landlady, and he lets out his honour to 


i 


The romance of Tom Jones, that exquisite picture of 
homan manners, will outlive the of the Escurial 
and the imperial eagle of Austria. 

To Tom Jenes is added the charm of a plot of a- 

threads of in 


Jones (Mrs.), the waiting-woman of 
lady Penfeather.—Sir W. 
Ronan's Well (time, George III.). 
Jonson (Ben), the poet, introduced 
by sir Walter Scott in his Woodstuck, 
Shakespeare is introduced in the same 
novel. 


Jopson (Jucod), farmer at the village 
Gifton. , Hise 


near 

Cwely Jopson, Incob’s daughter. She 
marries Ned Williams.—Sir W. Scott, 
Waverley (time, George I1.). 


Jordan (Jfrs.), the actress, who lived 








JOTHAM. 
Jo'tham, the 





rson who uttered the 
parable of ‘ The Trees choosing a King,” 
when the men of Shechem made Abime- 


lech king. In Dryden's Absalom and 
Ach , it stands for George Saville, 


maryws of Halifax. 


Jotham of piercing wit and pregnant thought, 

Eudued by na‘ure. and by learning taught 

To move awrmblie.. . . turned the too; 

So much the weight of one brave man can do. 
Drydea, A besion and Achisephel, 1, (1681), 


Jour des Morts (Ali Souls’ Day). A 
Dieppoise legend explains the phrase thus: 
Le gnotteur de ia jetée voit au miltei de la nuit arriver 


Dieppe of ove Knvirons ( 
Jour king of Mambrant, the 
person who carried off Jos’ian the wife of 
sir Bevis of Southampton, his sword 
** Morglay,” and his steed ‘ Ar’undel.” 
Sir Bevis, disguised as a pilgrim, re- 
covered all three.—Drayton, Poly Y 
fi. (1612). 


Jourdain (Jfons.), an elderly trades- 
man, who has euddenly fallen into a large 
fortune, and wish<a to educate himself up 
to his new position in society. He em- 

loys masters of dancing, fencing, philo- 
ogy, and so on; and the fun of the 
drama turns on the ridiculous remarks 
that he makes, and the awkward figure 
he cuts as the pupil of these professors. 
One remark is especially noted: he savs 
he had been talking prose all his life, and 
never knew it till his professor told him. 
—Mohire, 
(1670). 

Journalists. Napoleon I. said: 


A journalist [sa grumbler, a censnrer, a giver of advice, 
@ regent of sovereizns, a tutor of nations. Four hostile 
pewspepers are more formilable than a 
bayonets. 


Jovian, emperor of Rome, was bath- 
ing one day, when a person stole his 
cluthes and passed himsclf off as the 
emperor. Jovian, naked and ashained, 
weht to a knight, said he was emperor, 
and begged the loan of a few garments 
for the nonce; but the knight called him 
an impostor, and had him scoured from 
the gate. Hie next went to a duke, who 
was his chief minister ; but the duke had 
him confined, and fed on bread and water 
aS a vagrant and amadman. He then 
applied at the palace, but no one recoy- 
nized him there. Lastly, he went to his 
eonfessor, and humbled himself, confess- 
ing his sins. The priest took him to the 

and the sham emperor proved to 
an angel sent to reform the proud 
monarch. The story says that Jovian 


Le Bourycois Gentilhomme 


a ee eee 


501 


= GRO 


JGAN,. 


thenceforth reigned with merey and jne- 
tice, till he died.— Evenings with the Old 
Story-tellers. 


Ji oveuse (2 syl.), Charle e's 
sword, which bore the inscription : 
praceptorum custus Cardius. It was 
uried with the king, as Tizo’na (the 
Cid's sword) was ed with the Cid. 


Joyeuse-Garde or Garde-Jo- 
yeuse, the estate given by king Arthur 
to wir Launcelot du Lac for defending 
the -jueen’s honour against sir Mador. 
Here sir Launcelot was buried. 


Joyous Isle, the place to which sir 
Launcelot retired during his fit of mad- 
ness, which lasted two years. 


Juan (Don), a hero of the sixteenth 
century, a natural son of Charles-quint, 
born at Ratisbonne, in 1545. He con- 
quered the Muvuors of Grana’ woo a 
great naval victory over the Turks at 

nto, made himself master of Tunis, 
and put down the insurgents of the 
Netherlands (1545-1578). 

This is the don Juan of C. Delavigne’s 
Crass} encitled Don Juan d Autriche 
(1835 e 


Juan (Don), son of don Louis Tenorio, 
of Sicily, a hearthss roué. His vale 
says of him: 

Tu vols en don Juan ls plus grand sefliérat tn torre 
alt jamais porté, un enrs.%, un chinn, 40 us 
Ture, un hérétique qui ne colt ni ciel. ni enfer, ul diable 
z pase cette vie en veritable béte brute, un puurcese 
o Eviccre: . 





> Qui ferme lureilie & toaves 
veatee tout ce aia nous lui peut faire, et tralte de bille- 
1. 2 (1685), , 

Juan (Don), a uative of Seville, son of 
don José and donna Inez (a blue-stock- 
ing). When Juan was 16 years old, he 
got into trouble with donna Julia, and 
was sent by his mother (then a widow) 
on his travels. His adventures form the 
story of a poem so called ; but the tale is 
left incomplete.—Lord Byron, Don “Juan 
(1819-21). 

Juan (Don), or don Giovanni, the prince 
of libertines. Tne original of this cha- 
racter was don Juan Tenorio, of Seville, 
who attempted the seduction of the 

overnor's daughter; and the father, 
forcing the libertine to a duel, fell. A 
statue of the murdered father was erected 
in the family vault; and one day, when 
don Juan forced his way into the vault, 
he invited the statue to a banquet, The 
statue accordingly placed itself at the 
board, to the amazement of the host, and, 
compelling the libertine to follow, de- 


ben Juan, 








JULETTA. 508 
Tromp and De Ruyter. He defeated the | tamed renegade the better te etfect his 
Moors 


Swedes in 1677 in several engagements. 
ney sae esta rege 
The power?” 
Longhillow, King Ohrtstian (7.}. 

Julet'ta, the witty, sprightly attend- 
ant of Alinda.—_Beausont and Fletcher, 
The Pilgrim (1621). 

Julia, a lady beloved by Protheus. 
Her waiting-woman is Lucetta.—Shake- 
speare, Zwo of Verona (1594). 

Julia, the “ward” of Master Walter 
“Sthe hunchback.” She was brought up 
by him most carefully in the coun 
and at a marriageable was betrothed 


to sir Thomas Clifford. ing brought to 
London, she was carried away in the 
vortex of fashion, and became the votary 


of pieaare and dissipation, abandoned 
Clifford, and promised to marry the ear! 
of Rochdale. As the wedding day drew 
nigh, her love for Clifford retu and 
she implored her guardian to b off 
her promise of marri to the earl. 
Walter now showed himscif to be the 
real earl of Rochdale, and father of Julia. 
Her nuptials with the supposed earl fell 
to the ground, and she became the wife of 
sir Thomas Clifford.—S. Knowles, The 
Hunchback (1831). 


Ju'lia (Donna), a lady of Seville, 
of Moorish origin, a married woman, 
‘* charming, chaste, and twenty-three. 
Her eye was large and dark, her hair 
glessy, her brow smooth, her cheek “ all 
pu le with the beam of youth,” her 

usband 50, and his name Alfonso. nna 
Julia loved a lad of 16, named don Juan, 
*‘ not wisely but too well,” for which she 
was confined in a convent.—Byron, Don 
Juan, i. 59-188 (1819). 


virtue’s mke,” and then, “In the 
security of innocence,” she seeks temptation, and Sade 
retreat imposible.—Finden, Byron Zeauties, 

. Julia Melville, award of sir Anthony 
Absolute; in love with Faulkland, who 


the water by tne upsettin 
Sheridan, Rivals (1775). 
Julian (Count), a powerful lord of 
the Spanish Goths. en his daughter 
Florinda was violated by king Roderick, 
the count was so indignant that he 
invited over the Mvors to come and push 
Roderick from the throne, and even 


= 


JULIE. 


purpose. 
condemned count Julian to death, ‘to 
punish treachery, and prevent worse ill.” 
clian, befure he died, sent for “ father 
Maccabes,” and said: 
I would hin 

Die in the faith wherein my fathers dled. 

I feel that I have dnaed, and from my soul 

pcre takth, which in my seul 

Southey, Rederiah, ete. xxiv. (814. 

Julian (St.), patron saint of hos 

ality. An epitate a man of hospitality. 
An househalder and that a gret wes he ; 
Seint Julian he was in bis countré. 

Chaucer, /ntredustion te Canterbury Tales (1308). _ 

Julian St. Pierre, the brother of 
Mariana (q.0.).—8. Knowles, The Wife 
(1888). 

Juliana, eldest daughter of Bal- 
thaza. A proud, arrogant, overbeari 
Aathurine,” who marries the duke of 
Aranza, intends to be lady 
mount. The duke takes her to a poor 
hut, which he calls his home, gives her 
the household duties to rm, and 
pretends to be a day urer. She 
chafes for «2 time; buat his manliness, 
affection, end firmness yet the mastery ; 
and when he sces that she loves him for 
himself, he announces the fact that after 
all he is the duke and she the duchess of 
Aranza.—J. Tobin, Z7ke Honeymoon (1804). 


Ju'liance, a giant.—Sir T. Malory, 
History of Prince Arthur, i. 98 (1470). 

Julie (2 syi.), the heroine of Molitre’s 
comedy cntitled Mons. de Puurceaugnae 
(1669). 

Ju'lie (2 syl.), the heroine of J. J. 
Rousseau's novel entitied Julie on ie 
Nouvelle Hélotse (1760). The prototype 
was the comtesse d'Houdetot. Dalie 
a pale complezion, a graceful Agure, a 
profusion of light brown hair, and her 
near-sightedness gave her ‘‘a charming 
mixture of gaucherie and grace.” Ros- 
seau went every morning to meet her, 
that he might receive fron her that single 
kisa with which Frenchwomen salute a 
friend. One day, when Kousseau told her 
that she might innocently love others 
besides her husband, she naively replied, 
‘‘Je pourrais donc aimer mon pauvre 
St. Lambert.” Lord Byron has made beg 
familiar to English readers. 

His love was peaion's exsence 

This breathed itaelf to life f Jule; this 

Invested her with all that’s wild and sweet; 

This hallowed, tuo, the memorable kiss 


" 





JUSTINIAN. 505 
Justin’ian (The English), Edward I. 


(12489, 1272-1307). 

Ju'venal (The English), John Old- 
ham (1653-1683). 

Ju'venal (The Young). [Dr.] Thomas 
Lodge is so called by Robert Green (1555- 
1625).—A Groatsworth of Wit, At 
with a Million of Repentance. 

Ju’venal of Painters (The), 
William Hogarth (1697-1794). 

suis et reste (‘‘ Here am 
| red and need mean to remain”). 
This was said by marshal de MacMahon, 
and shows the character of the marshal- 


president of the French better than a 
volume (1877). But he resigned in 1879. 


K. 
_Kadr (Al), the night on which the 


ordn was sent down to Mahomet. Al 
Kadr is supposed to be the seventh of the 
last ten nights of Ramadan, or the night 
between the 23rd and 24th days of the 

month. 
Verily we sent down the Korfin on the night of Al 
how ex- 


Kader; and what can make thee com 
cellent the night of Al Kadr ist—.«4i Korda, xucvil. 


K&f (Mount), n mountain encircling 
the whole earth, xnid to be a huye table- 
land which walls in the earth as a ring 
encircles one’s finzer. It is the home of 
giants and fairics, jinn, peris, and deevs, 
and rests on the sacred stone called Sakh- 
rat. It is fully described in the romance 
of Hatim Taf, the hero of which often 
visited the region. The romance has 
been translated into English by Duncan 
Forbes.— dvhamuncdan Afytholoqy. 

The mountain of K&f surrounds the whol 
com af one entire emerald. bf 
forty other workis, entirely different to this; each 
forty worlds has 0,000 cities, and each city 400,000 gates, 
The Inbabitants of these cities are enti eiempt from 
all the suffering- of the race of man; the day there has no 
wight. the earth ts guid, and the inhabitants angola, who 
sing without ceasing the praises of Allah and bis prophet. 

The nountain Kaf is placed between the horns of a 
white ox, named Kirnit. The head of this uz touches the 
east, and hia hind parts the west, and the distance het ween 
these borus could not be traversed in 100,000 1 
Comte de Caylus, Ordentul Tales ('' History Abdal 
Motilleh,” 1743). 

The mountain of Kaf may set bounds to the world, but 
mot to the wisheeof the ambitious, Cumnmtede Cayliua, Or¢- 
ental Tales \'° Dakianos and the Beven Sleepers,” 1743). 


From Auf to Adf, from one extremity 
of the carth to the other. 
22 


The sun was | 


KALED. 


supposed to rise from one of its eminences 


and to set on the opposite. 

The mountain of Kaf may tremble, bat the a 
Avlah remaineth fast for ever and ever.--W. 
Vathek (1784). 

Kaf, a fountain, the waters of which 
confer immortality on the drinker. 


Bare bis 3 
Have drunk of Ket dork fountain, and be ormes 
Serong Southey, Aederteh, ote., xv. (1814, 
Kail, a prince of Ad, sent to Mecca te 
pray for rain. wate clouds Libpeared, 
a white one, 3 one, ald a one, 
and Kail was bidden to make his choice. 


Kail’ (2 syf.), the lovely and holy 
da rt her Ladurled, persecuted re- 
len eoaly by Arvalan ? but yalrat and 
chastity, person 0 ways 
triumphed over sin and lust. Whee 
Arvalan “in the flesh” attempted t 
dishonour Kailyal, he was slain by La- 
durlad; but he then continued his attacka 
‘‘ out of the flesh.” Thus, when Kailyal 
was taken to the Bower of Bliss by a 
benevolent spirit, Arvalan borrowed the 
dragon-car of nthe griteh Lor rimite (3 
syl.) to drag him thence; the dragons, 
however, unable to mount to paradioe, 
landed him ine ion of thie -ri oe 
ice. Again, ilyal, being obliged 

uit the Bower, was made the bride of 
Jaga-naut, and when Arvalan presented 
himself before her again, she set fire 
to the and was carried from the 
flames by her father, who was charmed 
from fire as well as water. Lastly, while 
waiting for her father’s return from the 
submerged city, whither he had gone 
to release Ereen’ia (3 sy/.), Arvalan once 
more appeared, but was seized by Baly, 
the governor of hell, and cast into 
bottomless pit. Having descended to hell, 
Kailyal quaffed the water of immortality, 
and was taken by Ercenia to his Bower 
of Bliss, to dwell with him for ever in 
endless joy.—Southey, Curse of Kehama 
(1809). 

Kaimes (Lord), one of the two judges 
in Peter Peebles's lawsuit.—-Sir W. Scott, 
Redyauntlet (time, George III.). 

Kalas’rade (8 sy/.), tho virtaocus 
wife of Sadak, persecuted by the sultan 
Am’urath. (See SADAK.)—Esdlay, Tales 
of the Genii, xi. (1751). 

Kaled, Gulnare (2 syl.) disguised as 








KAY. 507 





slept nor ate. At death it was taken up 
into paradise.—Sale, A/ Aordn, xviii. 
notes. 
*," Katmir, in the Oriental Tales, is 
called “ Catnier,” 
pba tops ade ne eer Sees th 
bis left Ig, bat the dog still 
0 


| 
se 
eee 
it 
: 
: 
; 


He wouldn't give a bone to Katmir, or 
He wouldn't throw a bone to the dog of the 
seven sleepers, an Arabic proverb, applied 


Kay (Sir), son of sir Ector, and foster- 
brother of prince Arthar, who made him 
his aeneschal er steward. Sir Kay was 
ill-tempered, mean-spirited, boastful, and 
overbearing. He had not stren of 
mind enough to be a villain like Magen, 
nor strength of passion enough to be o 
traitor like Ganelon and Mordred; but he 
eould detract and calumniate, could be 
envious and spiteful, could annoy and 
irritate. His wit consisted in givin 
nicknames: Thus he called young arth 
" Big Handa " ( feawnains), '' because his 
hands were the largest that ever any one 
had seen.” He called sir Brewnor “‘ The 
Shocking Bad Coat" (/.a Cote Male-faile), 
because his doublet fitted him so badly, 
and was full of sword-cuts.—Sir T. 
Malory, History of Prince Arthur, i, 3, 4, 
120, ete. (1470). (See Key.) 


Kayward, the name of the hare in 
the beast-epiec of Reynard the For (1498), 


Keblah, the point towards which 
Mohammedans turn their faces in prayer. 


EKecksey, a wheezy old wittol, who 
pretends to like a termagant wife who 
ean flirt with other men—ugh, uch !—he 
loves high spirits—ugh, ugh !—and to see 


his wife—ugh, uch!—happy and scamper- | 


ing sbout—uyh, ugh!—to theatres ari 


balls—uogh, ugh !—he likes to hear her | 
lsugh—agh, ugh !—and enjoy herself— | 


ugh,ugh! Oh! this troublesome cough ! 
—uph, ugh |[—Garrick, The frish Widow 
(1767). 

Ke'derli, the St. George of Moham- 
medan mythology. Like St. George, he 
elew a monstrous dragon to save adamael 
expoved to its fury, and, having drunk of 
the water of life, rode through the world 
to aid those who were oppressed. 


Se eo 





KENGE. 


Keelavine (Mr.), painter at the 
hotel.—Sir W. Coot’ St. Honan's Well 
(time, George III,). 


Keene (Abel), a village schoolmaster 
afterwards a merchant's clerk, Being led 
astray, he lost his place and 
himself.—Cralbe, Borough, xxi. (1810). 





K of Piers Plowman's vision 
| the Statcers Hills, Piers Plowman (W, 


or R, Langland, 1562) supposes himself 
fallen asleep on the Malvern Hills, and 
in his dream be sees various visions of 
an allegorical character pasa before him, 
These “ visiona™ he pnt into , the 
whole containing 15,000 verses, divided 
into twenty parts, each part being called 
O passus or separate Vision. 

epers of Plers Plowman’s vision, thro’ the sunshine and 

Mr. Browning, The Leet Dower, 

EKeha'ma, the almighty jah of 
earth, and Silepowerfale ine oa or 
heaven. After a long yeas , he went 
to Pan'dalon (Ael/) to claim arestuation 
there also, Kehama demanded why the 
throne of Yamen (or Pluto) was supported 
by only three persons, and was tall that 
he himself must be the fourth. He paid 
no heed tothis prophecy, but commanded 
the amreeta-cup or draught of immortali 
to be brought to him, that he might qua 
it and reign for ever. Now there are two 
immortalities: the immortality of life for 
the good, and the immortality of death 
for the wicked. When Eehama drank 
the amreeta, he drank immortal death, 
and was forced to bend his prond neck 
beneath the throne of Yamen, to become 
the fourth supporter.—Southey, Curse of 
Kehama (1809). 

*,* Ladurlad was the person subjected 
to the “curse of Kehama,” and coder 
that name the story will be found. 

Kela, now called Calabar, 

Palling with } wr Pearl i | 
orice ares 
sera me rien ’ m Nighca |“ Bind 

Keltie (Old), innkeeper at Kinross.— 
mes W. Scott, The Abbot (time, Elize- 

eth), 


Kempfer-Hausen, Robert Pearce 
Gillies, one of the s ers in the “ Noctés 
Ambrosiang.”—Blackwood's Magazine, 

Kendah, an Ambian tribe, which 
used to bury alive their female children 
as soon aa they were born. The Aordn 
refers to them in ch. vi. 


Kenge (1 sy/.), of the firm of Kenge 








KENT. 


Kent (The Fair Maid of), Joan, only 
daughter of Edmund Plantagenet earl of 
Kent. She married thrice: (1) William 
de Montacute earl of Salisbury, from 
whom she was divorced ; (2) sir mas 
Holland; and (3) her second cousin, 
Edward the Black Prince, by whom she 
became the mother of Ri Il. 


Ken (Mr.), a tarner in ivory, 
and ‘‘a monstrous genteel man.” e 
teadies Mr. Lillyvick, his wife's uncle, 
from whom he has “‘ ex tions.” 

Mrs, Kenwigs, wife of the above, con- 
sidered ‘‘ quite a lady,” as she has an 
uncle who collects the water-rates, and 
sends, her daughter Moleena to a day 


00 oe 

The Misses Kenwigs, pupils of Nicholas 
Nickleby, remarkable for wearing their 
hair in long braided tails down their 


backs, the ends being tied with bright 


ribbons.—C. Dickens, Nicholas Ni 
(1838). 


Kera Khan, a gallant and generous 
Tartar chief in a war between the Poles 
and the Tartars.—J. P. Kemble, Lodoiska 
(a melodrame). 


Kerns, light-armed Irish foot-soldiers. 
The word (Awheyren) means “a hell 
showcr;” so called because they were hell- 
rakes or the “‘devi.'s black-guard.” (See 
GALLOWGLASSES.)—Stanihurst, Desorip- 
tion of Ireland, viii. 28. 


Kesche’tiouch, the shepherd who 
joined the six Greek slaves of Ephesus, 
and was one of the ‘‘seven sleepers.” 

eschetiouch’s Dog, Catnier, called by 
Sale, in his notes to the Aurdn, “ Kat- 
mir.”—Comte de Caylus, Oriental Tales 
(‘‘ History of Dakianvs,” 1748). 

Kes’teven. Lincolnshire is divided 
into Lindsey, the highest lands; Aesteven, 
the heaths (west) ; and Holland, the fens. 

Sous of ber foeay fetta to hear rude Holland prate! 

Drayton, Polpolbion, xuxv. (1623). 

Kettle of Fish (A Pretty), a pretty 
muddle, a bad job. A corruption of 
Kiddie of fish. A kiddle is a basket set 
in the opening of a wear for catching fish. 
(French, quadeuw. ) 


Kettle-drum, acorruption of Kiddle- 
drum, a drvm in the shape of a kiddle or 
basket employed for catching fish. (See 
above.) 


EKettledrummle (Gatriel), a cove- 
panter preacher.—Sir W. 
Mortality (time, Charles I1.). 











KEYS OF KNOWLEDGE. 
Keuser, one of the rivers of Mae 
homet's ise, the waters whereof are 
sweeter new milk. 


He who has seen the garden of beauty, O adarebis 
princes, would sa won for one 








of the water of 
("The Basket,” 

Kevin (S.), a young man who went 
to live on a solitary rock at G 
in Wicklow. This he did to flee from 
Kath’leen, who loved him, and whose eyes 
he feared his heart world not be able to 
resist. Kathleen tracked him, and 
while he slept ‘“‘bent over him ; but, 
starting from his sleep, the “ holy man 
cast the girl from the rock into the sea, 
which her ghost haunted amidst the 
sounds of sweet music.—T. Moore, Irish 
Melodies, iv. (‘ By that Lake ee ” 1814). 


Key (Sir), son of sir Ector the 
-father of prince Arthur. He was 
Arthur’s seneschal, and is represented as 
rude and boastful. Sir Gaw’ain is the 
ty pe of courtesy, sir Launcelot of chivalry 
sir Mordred of treachery, sir Galahad of 
mee sir Mark of cowardice. (See 
Y. 


Key and Bible, used for the detec- 
tion of thieves. A key is placed over an 
open Bible at the words, ‘* Whither 
goest, I will go” (Ruth i. 16) 5 and, the 

ngers of the person being held so as te 
form a cross, the text is repeated. The 
pames of suspected persons are then pro- 
nounced in succession, and when the name 
of the thief is uttered, the key jumps and 
dances about. An instance of this meth 
of thief Gnding was brought before the 
mayzistrates at the borough petty sessions 
at Ludlow, in January, 1879. 


; 


B 


fi 


Defendant then 
thief,” and charged ber with stealing the 
payer paragruph (January, 1678). 

Key of Russia, Smolensk, on 
Dnieper. Famous for its resistance 
Napoleon I. in 1812. 


Key of the Mediterranean, the 
fortress of Gibraltar, which commands 
the entrance of the Mediterranean Nea. 


Keys of Knowledge. Five thirgs 


s& 

















KILDERKIN. 


Like the Wright lamp thet shone te Racers fane, 
2. Meore. frist Meiedian ti (“ Erin, O Eria:” 1814) 
Aped Kilderian: ocourrit ignis Ganctes Brigides quem 


ete romat Cambrensis, Bibernis, 
© 94a] 


Kilderkin (Ned), keeper of an 
eating-house at Greenwich. — Sir W. 
Scott, Fortunes of Nivel (time, James I.). 

Kilian (S.), an Irish missionary who 

martyrdom at Wurzburg, in 689. 
A cathedral was erected to his memory in 
the eighth century. 

Kilian of Kersberg, the ‘squire of 
sir Archibald von Hagenbach. ir W. 
ae Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward 


Killed by Kindness. It is said 
that the apc not unfrequently strangles 
its young ones by hugging them too hard. 

The Athenians, wishing to show honour 
to Draco the law-giver, showered on him 


their caps and cloaks, and he was 
smothe to death by the pile thus 
heaped upon him. 


Killing no Murder. Carpentier 
de Marignv, the enemy of Mazarin, 
issued, in 1658, a tract entitled Zuer un 
Tyran n'est par un Crime. 

Sexby wrote a tract entitled Ailling no 
Murder, generally thought to have been 
the production of William Allan. The 
object of the book was to show that it 
would be no crime to murder Cromwell. 


Kilmansegg (Hiss), an heiress ith 

t expectations, and an artificia 
ff solid yold.—Thomas Hood, 4 Golden 
Leyend (1828). 

ing, a title of sovereignty or 
honour At one time, crown tenants were 
called kings or dukes, at the option of the 
sovereiyn; thus, Frederick Burbarosss 
made one of his brothers a king-vasaal, 
and another a duke-vassal, simply by the 
investiture of a sword. In English his- 
tory, the lord of Man was styled ‘* king ;" 
so was the lord of the Isle of Wight, and 
the lord of Connaught, as clearly appears 
in the grants of John and Henry Jill. 
Several examples might be quoted of 
earls conferring the title of‘ king "on their 
vassals. —See Selden's Titles of Honour, 
iii. (1614). 

Bing (Like a). When Porus, the 
Indian prince, was taken prisoner, Alex- 
ander asked him how he expected to be 
treated. ‘‘ Like a kiny,” he replied; and 
Alexander made him his friend. 


Aing (The Factory), Richard Oastler 


Bll 





KING. 


of Bradford, the successful advocate eof 
the “Ten Hours Bill” (1789-1861). 
King (The Rail George Hudscn ; 


way), 
so called by the . 8 Smith 
(1800-1871). 


King (The Red) the king of Persia 
so called from hi3 red turbae ° 

Credo ut Persam wanc propter 
Rubeum Caput vocant, ita 
tegumenta Albes Rages 

King (The Snow), Gustavus Adolphus 
of Sweden, killed in the “ Thirty Years’ 
War" at the battle of Latzen, 1682. 


At Vienna he ¢ .3 called °’ The Guow King” tn det iaion. 
Like a enow-ball, ..2 was kept together the cold, het as 


peared De. Crichton, Soondieanta, © 61 OBIS) 
*,* Sweden and Norway are each 
called ‘‘ The Snow Kingdom.” 


Let no vessel of the kingdom of mow{ Yorway), bound 
oa the dark. rolling waves of Inistore (the Otneet 


King (The White). The ancient kings 
of Muscovy were so called from the white 
robe which they used to wear. Solomon 
wore a white robe; hence our Lord, speak- 
ing of the lilies of the field, says tha 
‘Solomon in all his glory was not 
arrayed like one of these " (Luke xii. 27). 
ope Moscoviee Album Regen puncepant. oes 
Rubsum Caput vocaat, tte reges Mosenviss, alba 
tagumenta 4 /bee Reges appeliari. 

*,* Another explanation may be sug- 

e 
Freted : Muscovy was ealled ‘‘ White 
ssia,” as Poland was called ‘ Black 
Russia.” 


King (Tom), ‘the choice spirit of the 
day for a quiz, a hoax, a joke, a jest, a 
song, 8 dance, a race, or arow. A joll 
deg, a rare blood, prime buck, rum 80 
and funny fellow.” He drives M. Mor- 
bleu, a French barber, living in the 
Seven Dials, London, almost out of hia 
senses by inquiring over and over again 
for Mr. Thompson.— Moncrieff, Mon. 
Tunson. 

(There is a Afon. Junson by Taylor, 
1767.) 


King (surnamed the Affable), Charles 
VIII. of France (1470, 1483-1498). 


Kinj (surnamed the Amorous), Philippe 
I. of France (1052, 1060-1108). 


Aing (surnamed A tus), Phili 
II. of | France. So called because he Lies 
born in August (1165, 1180-1223). 
Sigismund IT. of Poland ; born in the 
month of Angust (1520, 1548-1572). 


King (surnamed the Avenger), Alphonse 


rebea 
Segment copie 





KING. 


William 
(*, 166-1189). 


ing (surnamed the Great), Abbas I. 
of Peis (1657, 1585-1628). 
Alexander of Macedon (B.0. 856, 340- 


823 
aitred of En land (849, 849, 871-901). 
sot rit turids, etc. (848, 


Alphogso V. count of Savoy (1249, 
1285-1823). 
Boleslaus I. of Poland (*, 992-1025). 
Canute of England (995, 1014-1085). 
Casimir II]. of Poland (1809, 1338- 
1870). 
Charlemagne ( (742, 768-814). 
duke of Lorraine (1548, 
1547-1608). 


Charles Emmanuel I. duke of Savoy 
(1562, 1580-1630). 

Constantine I. emperor of Rome (272, 
806-837). 

Cosmo de’ Medici grand-duke of Tus- 
eany (1519, 1537-157 

Ferdinand I. of Cantile, etc. (*, 1034- 


1065). 
Frederick II. of Prussia (1712, 1740- 
1786 


Frederick William the Great Elector 
(1620, 1640-1688). 

Gregory I. pope (544, 590-604). 

Henri IV. of France (1553, 1589-1610). 

Herod I. of the Jews (B.c. 73, 47-4). 

Herod Agrippa I. the tetrarch 
(*, *-44). 

Iliao-wen-tee of China (B.0, 206, 179- 


157). 

John II. of Portugal (1455, 1481- 
1495). 

Justinian I. emperor of the East (483, 


627-565). 
(onan ey% or Chosrots I. of Persia 
531-579). 
CL pope (890, 440-461), 
Louis XIV. of France 1638, 1643-— 
1715). 


Ludwig of Hungary (1326, 1842-1381). 
Mahomet II. of 


urkey (1430, 1451- 
1481). 


Matteo Visconti lord of Milan (1250, 
9295-1322). 

Maximilian duke of Bavaria (1578- 
651). 


Napoleon I. of France (1769, 1804- 
1814, died 1821). 

Nicholas I. pope ( (*, 858-867). 

Otto I. of Germany (912, 936-973). 

Pedro III. of Aragon (1239, 1276- 
1285). 

Peter J. of Russia (1672, 1689-1725). 

Sapor II. of Persia (310, 308-380). 


518 KING. 
II. of the Two Sicilies 





' saigiammand I. of Poland (1466, 1506. 


Theodosius I, Gratedek (G46, 576898). 


. of Denmark (1181, 1157~ 
1181). 


King (surnamed the Illustrious), Albert 
Vv. emperor of Austria (1898, 1404-1439). 
Jam-sheid of Persia (n.c. 840-800). 
Kien-lén of ho 1798-1798) 
Nicomed ithynia 
Hey appt, o Terk 
emy V., 2, 
(p.0. 210, 208-181). , 


Ki Wey (ome (surnamed the Inf 0001 one 
(993, 9 900-911 
x ILI. of 


7 (surnamed needy, Edmund IL 
of te J kw (989, 1016-1017). 
erick II. elector of Brandenburg 
was cae “Tron Tooth” (1657, 1688- 
1713 
Nicholas of Russia was called ‘‘ The 
Iron a ” (1796, 1826-1852). 


ing (surnamed the Just), Baharam of 
Peni! (276-296). 
we Ii. of Poland (1117, 1177- 


94) 

tar grdinand I. of Aragon (1878, 1412~ 

16) 

Haroun-al-Raschid (765, 786-808). 
sa Il. of Aragon (1261, 1285- 

Khosrou or Chosroés I. 
(*, 531-579). 

Louis XIII. of France (1601, 1610- 
1643 

Pedro I. of Portugal (1820, 1857- 
1367). 


Ki gcurmamed the Lame), 
lads o arta (n.c. 444, 898-361). 
Albert 1. of Wistria (1289, 1330-1858), 
duke of Austria, 
Charles II. of Naples (1248, 1289-1809), 
Heinrich II. of Germany (972, 1 
ne 


of Perna 


surnamed the Lion) Alep Ars- 
lan he Valiant Lion), son r 
the Perso-Turkish monarch 
1072). 

Arioch, called ‘The Lion King of 
Assyria a (n.c. 1927-1897). 

Damelowiez prince of Haliez, whe 
founded Lemberg (‘S the lion city ’) a 
1259. ° 

L 





KING, 514 
Gustavus Adolplius, called “The Lioa 

of the North ” (1594, 1611-1632). 
Heiorich duke of Bavaria and Saxony 


(1129-1193). 
France (1187, 1223- 


Louis VIII, 
B22). 

Richard I. of England, Comr de Zion 
(11457, 1189-1199), 

William of Scotland: so called be- 
cau e be chose for his cognizance a red | 
liot rompant (*, 1165-1214). 

King (surnamed the Little), Charles | 
fil. of Naples (1545, 1381-1386), 

Kimy (surnamed the Lony-leqqged), Fd- 
ward |., Longshants, of England (1299, 
1272-1307). 

Philippe V. fe Long, of France (1294, 


1317-1322). 


Aing (summamed the Maynanimous), 
Alphonso V.of Aragon and Naples (1885, 
1416-1458), 

Khosrou or Chosro#a of Persia, Nouw- 


shirwan (*, 631-579). 





of 


King (surnamed the Magnificent), Soli- 
man |. sultan (1493, L520-1 hob), 


Aiiny (surnamed the Martyr), Charles | 
J. of England (100), 1625-1649), 

Edward the Martyr, of England (o6), 
975-979). 

Louisa XVI. 


1793}. 


of France (1/f4, 1774 








yn 
VI, of Austria (1418, 1439-1463), 


KING. 
Eric 1X. of Sweden ( 1155-1191 
the house wi 


Ernst J. founder of 
eri le Pwr, of France (971, 996— 
1051). 





(1601-1674). 


(surnamed the Prodigal), Albert 


_ King (surnamed the Aaah), Charles te 
Temeraire, of Wargunidy (1435, 1467-1477), 


| duke, 


King (surnamed the Red), Amodems 
VII. count of Savoy (1960, 1558-1891), 
ui na IT. - eee ~~ 73-883). 

‘illiam T1,, Rufus, of England (1087 
ioe ius, of England (1057, 


King (surnamed Ned Beard), Frederick 
I, kaiser of Germany, called Dortarued 
(1121, 1152-1190). 

Horush or Horuc sultan of Almere 


(1474, 1516-1418). 
sultan of Algiers 


Khar Eddin 
(*, 1518-15-46). 
Aing (surnamed the Saint), Boniface 1. 
pope (*, 418-422). 
tontface 1V. pope (*, 607-415), 
Celestine I. pope (*, 422-432). 
Celestine V. pope (1215, 1294-1296), 
Charles the Good, count of Flandes 
(*, 1119-1127). ; 
Dies J a O21 at 


ee | 11nd ira 








KING. 


surnamed the Sin aah Charles 


Ac 
nt runce (879, 
(surnamed the Stammerer 


UU. a ‘gue, of France (846, Sree 
Michael ‘II. mnpetor of Aon 
, 820-829). 

King (surnamed the Terrible), Ivan II. 
ef Russia (1529, 1533-1584). 


en (surnamed the Thunderbolt). Pto- 
Pusloan of Macedon, eldest son of 
tér I., was so called from his 

~ im petuosity (8.C. *, 285-279). 


(surnamed the Thunderer), 
siepen I. of Llungary (1100, 1114- 


King (surnamed the Unready), Ethelred 
ITI. of England (*, 978-1016). Unready, 
in this case, does not mean unpre 
bat unwise, lacking rede (‘‘ wisdom or 
counsel”). 


King (surnamed the Valiant), John IV. 
duke of Brittany (14388, 1364-1399). 


King (surnamed the Victorious), 
Charles VII. of France (1408, 1422-1461). 


King (surnamed the Well-belored), 
Charles VI. of France (1368, 1380-1422), 
Louis XV. of France (1710, 1715-1774). 


King (sumamed the Wise), Albert IT. 
duke of Austria (1289, 1330-1358). 

Alphonso X. of Leon and Castile (1203, 
1252-1284). 

Charles V. of France, le Saye (1887, 
1864-1380). 

Che-Tsou of China (*, 1278-1295). 

Frederick elector of Saxony (1463, 


1544-1554). 
Solomon, of England (1566, 


James I., 
1603-1625). 

John VY. duke of Brittany (1389, 1899- 
1442). 


Kin, (surnamed the Wonder of the 
World), Frederick 11. of Germany (1194, 
1215-1250). 

Otto 111. of Germany (980, 983-1002). 


King (sumamed the Young), Dagobert 
IJ. of France (652, 656-679). 

Leo II. pope (470, 474-474). 

Louis VII. fe Jeune, of France (1120, 
1187-1180). 

Ladwig II. of Germany (822, 855-875). 

Romanus II. emperor of the East (939, 

63). 


King Franco’ni, Joachim Mura; so 
ealled Dovause his dress was s0 exceedingly 


515 


- Eee 


KING AND THE LOCUSTS. 


showy that he reminded one of the fine 
dresses Franconi the mountebank 
(1767-1815). 


King Tog, « ainéant, an allusion 
to Hsop’s fable of rte Frroge ‘aeking fora 
King. Jupiter threw a log into the pond 
for their first king, and a stork for their 
second. The one was too peonie the 
other was a “‘ devourer of his peo 


King Maker , Richard Nevill 
ear. arwick, iby ell i in the battle 


| 
Barnet (1420-1471). So called because 
when he espoused the Yorkists, Edward 
IV. was set up king; and when ke 
espoused the Lancastrian side, Henry VI. 
was restored. 


Thus fortune to his end the mighty Warwick brings, 
This pulamut enttercap and phicbor-down of 
Drayton, Polyetdion, od (ea). 


King Pétaud, aking whose subjects 
are Te his equals. court of king Petaud 
is a board where no one pays any attention 
to the chairman ; a meeting of all talkers 
and no hearers. The king of the 
is OT bee king Pétaud, from the Latin, peto, 


King Stork, a tyrant who devours 
his subjects and makes them suomissive 
from fear. The allusion isto Zsup’s fable 
of the Frogs asking for a King. Jupiter 
Bret sent them a log, but they despised 

the pase thing ; he then sent them a 
ho devoured them. 


King and the Locusts. 
made a proclamation that, if any man 
would tell him a story which should last 
for ever, he would make him his heir and 
son-in-law ; but if any one undertook to 
do so and failed, he should lose his head. 
After many failures, came one, and sai 
‘“‘A certain king seized all the corn 
his kingdom, and stored it in a huge 
granary ; but a swarm of locusts came, 
and a small cranny was descried, through 
which one locust could contrive 'to creep. 
So one locust went in, and carried off 
one grain of com; and then another 
locust went in, and carried off another 
grain of corn ; and then another locust 
went in,” etc. ; and so the man went on, 
day after day, ‘and week after week, ‘‘and 
80 another locust went tin, and carried red of 
another grain of corn.” A mon 
a year passed. In six months more, the 
king said, ‘‘How much longer 
locusts be?” Oh, your oneresty,” sald 
the story-teller, ‘“‘they have cleared at 
present only a cubit, and there are many 








KING'S CAVE. 





Frace the same corceit. Both 
aa standi 
Iahive) 5 ; Pro Me nea 
ower te king sort Bruce with his 
retinue lod in "it Statistical Account 
V xing Scotland, v. 167. 


King’s Chair, the hands of two 

reons so crossed as to form a seat, On 

mas Day (February 2), it was at one 

time customary for Scotch children to 

carr offerings to their schoolmaster, and 

y and girl who brought the richest 

faite were elected king and queen for the 

nonce. When school was dismissed, each 

of these two children was carried in @ 
king’s chair, by way of triumph. 


Many lines of kings have 
e name of some famous forefather 
or oan some founder of a dynasty as a titular 
name.—See Selden, Titles of Honour, v. 
Alban kings, called Sicius. 
Amalekite kings, Ajay. 
Bithynian kings, Nicomédés, 
Constantinopolitan kings, Constantine, 
Egyptian kings (ancient), Pharaoh. 
(medieval), Ptolemy. 
Indian kings, called PulibotAri (from the 
city of Palibothra). 
Parthian kings, Ar’sdcés. 
Roman emperors, Cesar, 
Servian kings, Zazar, t.e. Eleazar Bulk 
or Bulk-ogar, sons of Bulk. 
Upsala kings, called Drott. 
Koyal patrunymics.— Athenian, Cecrop’- 
ids, from Cecrups 
Danish, Skio d-ungs, from Skiold, 
Persian, Achmen’-idx, from Achmenés, 
Thessalian, Aleva-dee, from Alevas; 
etc., etc. 


3 Cave 
King's Arey 


of Cologne (The Three), 
the three Mai who came from the East to 
offer gifts to the infant Jesus. Theirnames 
are Melchior, G are and Balthazar. 
The first offered yu/d, symbolic of king- 
ship; the second, Vrrankincense, symbolic 
of divinity; the third, myrrh, sy mbolic of 
death, my rh being used in embalming 
the dead. (See CoLoGug, p. 204.) 


Kings of England. Since the 
Conquest, not more than three successive 
povervigns have reigned without a crisis: 

William I., William II., Henry I. 

Stephen wurper. 

Henry II., Richard I., John. 

The pope gives the crown to the danphin. 

Henry II]., Edward I., Edward II. 

Kdward IL aardered. 





617 








KINGS OF ENGLAND. 


Edward III., Richard II. 
Richard IL. deposed. 

Henry IV., V., VI. 
Lancaster changed to York. 

Edward IV., V., Richard ITL 
Dynasty changed. 

Henry VII., VIII., Edward VI. 
Lady Jase Greg, 

Mary, Elizabeth. 
Dynasty changed. 

James I., Char.es I. 
Charles J. beheaded. 

Charles II., James II. 
James Il. dethroned. 

William III., Anne. 


Dynasty changed. 
George I., II., III. 


Bageucy. 
George IV., William IV., Victoria 
(indirect successions). 


Kings of England. Except in one tn- 
stance pple of John), we have never had 
ndchid sovereign in direct 

descent, The exception is not creditable, 
for in John’s reign the kingdom was 
given away twice his son Henry III. 
was imprisoned by Leicester; and his 

w 


Great grandson ard Hi. was mur- 
ered. In two other instances a grande 
child has succeeded, viz., Henry VI., 
whose reign was a continued civil war% 
and Edward VI., the sickly son of Jane 
Seymour. Stephen was a grandchild of 
William I., but a usurper; Richard Il 
was a prandchild of Edward IlI., and 
George III. was grandson of George II. 
but ‘their fathers did not succeed to the 
throne. 

William I.; his sons, William II., 
Henry I. 

Stephen (a usurper). 

Henry II.; his sons, Richard I., Joha 
(discrowned). 

From John, in regular succession, we 
have Henry III. (imprisoned), Edward 
]., Edward II. (murdered), Edward III. 

Richard II., son of the Black Prince, 
and without offspring. 

Hlenry IV., Henry V., Henry VI. 
(civil wars). 

Edward IV., Edward ve 


Richard HI. (no offep 
Ville edward VL 


Henry VII., Hen 
vie” Elizabeth ‘Caaughters of Heney 
) 





James I., Charlies I. 

Cromwell (called lord protector). 
Charles .II., James II. (two 
William III. 





KINGSHIP. 


obeisance, he and his heirs 
covered in the presence of the ki 
his successors. 


ight stand 
and 


Lord Forester had the same right 


confirmed to him by Henry VIII. 
John Pakington, ancestor of lord 


Hampton, had ao grant made him in the 


20th Henry VIII. “of full libert proven 
his life to wear his hat in roy 
presence.” 


ngship (Disqualijications for). An 
personal blemish disqualified r paren 
m being king during the semi-bar- 


barous stage of society ; thus putting out 
the eyes of a prince, to disqualify’ him 
from reigning, was by no means uncom- 
moo. It will be remembered that Hubert 
designed to put out the eyes of prince 
Arthur, with thia object. Witi'za the 
Visigoth put out the eyes of Thendo- 
fred, *‘inhabilitandole para la monarchia," 
says Ferraras, When Alboquerque took 
 pemer gery: of Ormuz, he depo fifteen 

ings of Portugal, and, instead of killing 
them, put out their eyes. 

Yorwerth, sou of Owen Gwynedh, was 
ect aside from the Welsh throne because 
he had a broken nose, 

Count Oiiba of Barcelona was set aside 
because he could not speak till he had 
stamped thrice with his foot, like a goat. 

The son of Ilenry V. was to be received 
as ki 


stunted. — Monstrelet, Cironupues, v. 190 
(1512). 
Uns Conde de Gallicla que fuera valiada, 
P tare nombre, cue lo desfursada, 
FP tle vidken, ade enn herd, 
Ome que fon vede, non debie seer nado 
Goomles do Bereen, 8. Dern, 238 (ilied | 560), 

Kinmont Willie, William Arm- 
strong of Kinmonth. This notorious 
freebooter, who lived in the latter part of 
the sixteenth century, is the hero of a 
famous Scotch ballad. 

Einoce'tus, a precious stone, which 
will enable the possessor to 
devils.—JAirrour of Stones, 

Kirk (Jr. Join), foreman of the jury 
on Effie Deans's trial.—Sir W. Scott, 
Heart of Midlothian (time, George I1.). 

Kir rarrate d (Scotland), = corruption 
ef Kirk-Culdee, one of the churches 


founded in [id by St. Colamb and hia 
established 


twelve brethren, when they 
the Culdee institutions. The doctrines, 


discipline, ans! government of the Culdees 


resembled preabyterianiam. 
Kirkrapine (3 sy/.), a sturdy thief, 





of France, only on condition that | then, 11 was a goodish stretch,” 


his y¥ was without defect, and was not 


cast out 


| officer,” 


KITE. 


| “wont to rob churches of their ornaments 
and 


i r men's boxes.” he eng ht er 
lay hands on he lyrought to the hat 
Abessa, daughter of Corce'ca. i 
Una was in the hut, Kirkrapine knocked 
at the door, and as it was not immediately 
agree knocked it down; whereupe 

lion sprang on him, “under his 
lordly foot did him suppress," and than 
‘rent him in thousand pieces small.” 

The meaning is that popery wae rT 
formed by the British lion, which slew 
Kirkrapine, or put a stop to the traffic in 
eg yey Una represents truth 
or the Reform urch.—5Spenser, Fairy 
Queen, i. 3 (1590), 

Kiss the Scavenger’s Daughter 
(Tv), to be put to the torture. trictly 
speaking, “the scavenger’s danghter 
was an instrament of torture invented 
by William Skevington, lieutenant of the 

ower in the reign of Henry VIII. 
Skevington became corrupted into sca- 
cenyer, and the invention was termed Aw 
duuyhter or offapring. 


Kit [Nunnes], the lad employed to 
wait on little Nell, and do all sorta of 
odd jobs at the “curiosity shop” for her 
grandfather. He generally begins his sen- 
tences with ‘*Why then.” Thus, “ "Twas 
a long way, wasn't it, Kit?" “Why 

serie 


Kit. “Did you find the house easily 7" 
“Why then, not over and above,” said 
Kit. ‘“‘Of course you have come back 
‘““Why then, 1 do think J am 
rather so."" When the “ curiosity shop” 
was broken up by Quilp, Kit took service 
under Mr, Garland, Abel Cottage, Finch- 
ley. 

Kit was a shock-beaded, she 
op dog and A beht suesical arpresiom of ion 
seeutel chart at the door on =elng & slraoger, twirled in 


his hand an old round hat withouta vestige of brim, rest- 

wi e med ley ain 16 ofbar, 
locking with o fet cotraon inary . He waa evidently 
the cuunly of litte Nell's lie—C Dickens, Pha Old 
Curiosity Shop, |. |). 


Kite (Seageanth, the “recruiting 
lle describes his own character 


thambling, awkward lad. with 
ee ey bee 


F 


E 


thus: 


[ wa horn @ , and bred among that cew ill 1 
Was 10 years oh | 1 lewnt canting aod /pimg, I 
wu bought from my mother by a cortain nebheman for 


three pation, as - oe ag bo oe ee 
impedence ond pimping. ig tag of tor woe 
ieerenem, asd drinking my laly'» ratefin, | t 
balls follower; there I learnt | od faced pearing. 
I nt Inet gol into tbe army, anal Ubere | bose 

Bu that... , the whele eum la: canting, lying, 

pimyding, ballying, swearing, drinking, a 
—i. Farquhar, Tae Xecruiiing Giecer, U1 (1m) 


i 








KLEINER. 521 










Kleiner (Ge 


governor of 


} 
Prague, brave as a lion, but tender- 
hearted as a girl. It Was Kleiner who 
rescued the i t danghter of Mahldenau 


at the siege of Magdeburg. A soldier 
scized the infant’s nurse, bot Kleiner 


smote him down, saved the child, and | 


breaght it up as his own daughter. 
Mahidenau being imprisoned in Prague 
as a epy, Meeta his daughter came to 

to beg for his pardon, and it then 
came to light that the governor's dt ey 
daughter was Mecta's sister.—5. Knowles, 
The Maid of Mariendorpt (1838). 

Enag (Miss), forewoman of Mde. 
Mantaliui, milliner, near Cavendish 
Square, London, After doting on Kate 
Nickleby for three whole days, this spite- 
ful creature makes op her mind to 
her for ever.—C. Dickens, Nicholas 
Nickleby, xviii, (1838). 

Knickerbocker (Diedrich), nom de 
plune of a T808) Irving, in his 
History of New Fi 


Knight of Arts a Industry 
the hero of Thomson's Custle of Jndolence 
(canto ii, 7-13, 1748). 


Knight of La Mancha, don 
Quixote de In Mancha, the hero of 
Cervantes’s novel called Dun Quircols, 
#tc, (1605, 1615). 


Knight of the Blade, a bully; so 
called because when swords were worn, & 
bully was for ever asserting his opinions 
by an appeal to his sword. 


Knight of the Ebon Spear, Fri- 
timart. In the preat tournament she 
“ sends sir Artezal over his horse's tail,” 
then disposes of Cambel, Tri’ amond, 
Blan'damuur, and several othera in the 
mame summary way, for ‘‘no man could 
bide ber enchanted spear.”— Spenser, 
Fuéry Queen, iv. 4 (15%), 

Knight of the Fatal Sword, 
Emedorus of Grana’da, Known for his 
love to the incomparable aley ‘de. 


Bir," eld the lady, peur nnd bp op celebrated in fhe 
work, that | ama peered oot tiirng ba Impandble tor your 
arn bo emecube,” ee Lhwnoy, Jury Taken |“ The 
Knight Errant,” 1642 


Maa ight of cen Invincible 8word. 

nadia da Gaul styled himeelf.— 

v a ae Lobeira, Amadis dy Gawl (four- 
teenth century). 


Enight of the Leopard. David 
earl of [luntingdon, prince royal of Scot- 
land, ssaumed the name and disruise of 


eS ae A) oD EE 0 EE ee 


KNIGHT OF THE SWAN. 


sir Kenneth, “ Knight of the Losers? 
in the crusade.—Sir W. Scott, The Tulis- 
man (time, Richard I.). 

Knight of the Lions, the appella- 
tion assumed by don Quixote after his 
attack upon the van containing two lions 
sent by the general of Ses ox 8 preeet 
to the king of rrr tape tea, Don 
Quixote, ir i. IT 615). 


Enews t of the Pestle, an apothe- 
cary or druggist, 

ght of the Post, one whe 
haunted the purlieus of the courts, ready 
to be hired to swear anything. So called 
becanse these mercenaries hung about the 
posts to which the sheriffs ed their 





announcements, 
FE De ne ROME of Dee pet, Mie boul for a bribe 
Tho’ all my fortune: be cromend, vet ) ovorm the cheney 


Ragged and Torn and True |e ballad). 
Also a man in eee or one that 
has been publicly tied to a post and 
whipped. 


Knight of the Rainbow, «a foot- 
man; go called from his gorgeous rai- 
ment. 


Knight of the Roads, « foot-pad 
or highwayman; so termed by o pun on 
the military order entitled ‘| nights 
of Rhodes.’ 


Knight of the Rueful Counten- 
ance, Don Quixote de la Mancha, the 
hero of Cervantes'’s novel, is so called by 
Sancho Panza his ‘squire. 


Knight of the Shears, a tailor. 
Shires (counties), pronounced shears, gives 
birth to the pun. 


Knight of the Sun, Almanzor 
prince of Tunis. So called because the 
sun was the device he bore on bis shield, 
—Comtesee D'Aunoy, Fuiry Tiles (“* Prine 
cess Zamea,” 1682), 


Knight of the Swan, Lohen 
gon of Parzival. He went to Bra 
in a ship drawn by a swan. Here he 
liberated the princess Elsen, who was o 
captive, and then married her, but de- 
clined to tell his name, After a time, he 
jomed an expedition against the Hun- 
gariana, and after performing miracles of 
valiur, returned to lirabant covered with 
glory. Some of Elsen's friends la 
at her fer not knowing her husband's 
name, 80 she implored him to tell her of 
his family ; but no sooner was the ques- 
tion asked than the white swan re-ap 
peared ond conveyed him away,— 








KNIGHTS OF RHODES. 


ge igi us house of carpe yas oawaee 
400 by John patriarch of Jerusalem, 
in honour of Elijab, and this gave rise to 
the legend. 

Knights of Rhodes. The “ Knights 
of Malta" were so called between 1510 
and 1523. (See Kwicurs or MALTA.) 


Knights of St. Andrew, inati- 
tuted by Peter the Great of Moscovy, in 
1698. Their badge is a gold medal, 
having St. Andrew's crosa on one side, 
with Ehesa words, Cazar Pierre monarquée 
de tout le Russie. 

hts of St. Genette (CAzera- 
fiers de [Ordre de St. Genette), the most 
ancient order of knighthood in France, 
imatituted by Charles Martel, after his 
victory over the Saracens in 742, where a 
vast number of yennects, like Spanish cata 
(cicet cats), were found in the enemy's 
camp. 


Enights of St. George. There 
are several orders so called : 

1. St. George of Alfama, founded by 
the kings of Aragon. 

2. St. George of Austria and Corinthian, 
instituted by the emperor Frederick III. 
first archduke of Austria. 

%. Another founded by the same em- 
peror in 1470, to guard the frontiers of 

hemia and Hunyary ayainst the 
Turks. 

4. St, George, generally called ‘‘ Knights 
of the Garter" (y.0.). 

5. Ao ordor in the old republic of 
Genoa. 

6. ‘The Teutonic knights were originally 
called “‘ Knights of St. George.” 

Enights of St. Jago, a Spanish 
order, airs under sce Aieneader 
IIl., the grand-master of which is next 
in rank to the sovereign. St. Jago or 
James (the Grester) is the patron saint 
of Spain, 

Knights of St. John at Jeru- 
galem, instituted im 1120. This order 
touk its name from Joho patriarch of 
Alexandria, and from the place of their 
abode Cake 9 These knighta sub- 
sequently resided at Rhodes (between 
1310 and 1523). Being driven out by the 
Turks in 1425, they took up their abode 
in Malta, and were called “ Knihts of 
Malta." 

Knights of St. Lagare (2 sy/l.), 
a religious and military onicr of Knights 
Hosypitallers, established in the twelfth 
eentury, and coolirmed by the pope in 





| Louis 





638 KNIGHTS OF THE BROOM, &KTC, 


1255. Their special mission was to take 
care of lepers. The name is derived 
from Lazarus the begcar who Iny at the 
gate of Divés. The order was intro- 
uced into France under Louis VII., and 
was abolished in the first Revolution. 


Knights of Bt. ; alene 
syl.), a French order, instituted by Pig 
Louis (TX.), to suppress duels, 


Knights of St. Maria de Mer- 
eede (3 sy!.), a Spanish order, for the 
redemption of captives. 

Knights of St. Michael the 
Archangel (Chevaliers de [ Ordre de St, 
Michel), a French order, instituted by 
I. in 1469, The king was at the 
head of the order. M. Bouillet sunys: 
“St. Michel est regardé comme le pro- 
tecteur ot l'ange tutelaire de la France.” 


Enights of St. Patrick, instituted 
in 1783. The ruling sovereign of Great 
Britain aod Tralee and the lord-lien- 
tenant of Iraland, are ex-ojficio members 
of thia order. The order is named after 


St. Patrick, the patron saint of Ireland. 


Knights of St. Salvador, in 
Ht ae instituted by Alphonso I. in 
1115, 


Knights of Windsor, formerly 
ealled “Poor Knights of Windaor,” but 
now entitled ‘* The Military Knights of 
Windsor,” a body of military pensionera, 
who have their residence within the pre- 
cincts of Windsor Castle. 


Knights of the Bath, an order of 
knighthood derived from the ancient 
Franks, and so termed because the mem- 
bers originally “bathed” before they 
performed their vigils, The lost knights 
created in this anciont form were at the 
coronation of Charles I]. in 1661. 
_G.C.B, stands for Grand Cross of the 
Bath (the first class); K.C.B. for Amight 
Cummunder of the Bath (the second 
class); ond C.B, for Cumpanion of the 
Bath (the third class), 


Enights of the Blood of Onur 
Baviour, ao order of knighthood in 
Mantua, instituted by duke Vincent 
Gonyaga in 1608, on his marriage. It 
cpealited of twenty Mantuan dukes. The 
name originated in the belief that in St. 
Andrew's Church, Mantua, certain drops 
of our Saviour's blood are preserved aa & 

f. 


| ghts of the Broom Flower 
(Chevuliera de (' Urdre de la Feneste), insti- 





KNIGHTS OF THE RED STA¥F. 525 

Knights of the Red Staff, an 
order instituted by Alfonso XI. of Cas- 
tile and Leon in 1330. 


Knights of the Round Table. 
King Arthur's knights were so called, 
because they sat with him at a round 
table made by Merlin for king Leode- 

raunce. This king gave it to Arthur on 

ig marriage with (suinever, his daughter. 
It contained seats for 150 knights, 100 of 
which king Leodegraunce furnished when 
he sent the table. 


Knights of the Shell. The argo- 
nauts of St. Nicholas were so called from 
the shells worked on the collar of the 
order. 


Knights of the Ship, an order of 
knighthood founded by St. Louis (IX.) 
of France in his expedition to Egypt. 


Knights of the Star (Cheraliers 
de [ Ordre de C Etvile), an ancient order of 
knighthood in France. The motto of the 
order was Mounstrant reysibus astra via, 


Knights of the Swan (Cheruliers 
de { Ordre du Cyjne), an order of knight- 
hood founded in 1443 by the elector 
Frederick IT. of Brandenburg, and re- 
stored in 1843 by Frederick William TV. 
of Prussia. Its object is the relief of dis- 
tress yvenerally. The king of Prussia is 
grand-master. The motto is Gott mit 
uns (‘‘God be with you”) ; and the collar 
is of gold. The white swan is the badge 
of the house of Cleves (Westphalia). 

Lord Berners has a novel called The 
Eniyht of the Swan (sixteenth century). 


Knights of the Thistle, said to 
be founded by Archaicus kiny of the Scots 
in 809; revived in 1540 by James V. of 
Scotland ; again in 1687 by James II. of 
Great Britain ; and ayain by quecn Anne, 
who placed the order on a permanent 
footing. The decoration consists of a 
collar of enamelled gold, composed of 
sixteen thistles interlaced with sprigs of 
rue, and a small golden image of St. 
Andrew within a circle. The motto is 
svemo me impune lacessit. The members 
are sometimes called ‘‘Knights of St. 
Andrew.” 

The rue mixed with the thistles is 
@® pun on the word ‘ Andrew,” thistles 
And-rue. 

*,” There was at one time a French 
&* Order of the Thistle” in the house of 
Bourbon, with the same decoration and 
motto. 


Knights of the Virgin’s Look- 


— = 





K 9H-I-NOOR. 
ing-glass, an order instituted in 1410 
y 





erdinand of Castile. 


Knights Teutonic, originally called 
** Knights of St. George,” then “ Knights 
of the Virgin Mary,” and lastly “Teutonic 
Knights of the Hospital of St. Mary the 
Virgin.” This order was instituted by 
Henry king of Jerusalem, in compliment 
to the German volunteers who accom- 
panied Frederick Barbarossa on his cru- 
sade. The kniyhts were soon afterwards 
placed under the tutelage of the Virgin, 
to whom a hospital had been dedicated 
for the relief of German pilgrims; and 
in 1191 pope Celestine III. contirmed the 
privileges, and changed the name of the 
order into the ‘Teutonic Knights,” etc. 
Abolished by Napoleon in 1809. 


Knighton, groom of the duke of 
Backingham.—Sir W. Scott, Fortunes of 
Nigel (time, James I.). 


Knockwinnock (Sybil), wife of sir 
Richard of the Redhand, and mother of 
Malcolm Misbegot.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Antiquury (time, George III.). 


Know. Not to know me argues your- 
selves unknoicn. The words of Satan to 
Zephon and Ithu’rit], when they dis- 
covered him Jurking in the garden of 
Eden.—Milton, Puradise Lost, iv. 880 
(1665). 


Kochla’ni, a race of Arabian horses, 
whose genealogy for 2000 years has been 
most strictly preserved. They are derived 
from Solomon's studs. This race of horses 

can bear Une pcreatest rath ue, Can piles UBYs 
without food, show undaunted couraze 
in battle, and when their riders are slain 
will carry them from the field to a place 
of safety.—Niebuhr. 

(The AudiscA‘ is another celebrated race 
of horses, but not equal to the AovAluni.) 


Koh-i-noor (‘‘ mountain of light"), a 
diamond once called *' The Great Mogul.” 
Held in the fourteenth century by the 
rajah of Malwa. Later it fell into the 
hands of the sultans of Delhi, after their 
conquest of Malwa. It belonged in the 
seventeenth century to Aurunyzebe the 
Great. The schah Jihan sent it to 
Hortensio Borgio to be cut, but the 
Venetian lapidary reduced it from 7933 
carats to 186, and Jeft it dull and lustre- 
less. lt next passed into the hands of 
Aurungzebe's great-grandson, who hid it 
in his turban. Nadir Schah invited the 

or to a feast, and insisted on 
chanying turbans, ‘‘ to cement their 'ove,” 











KWASIND. 
is the son of Siegebrand king of 
Triand, and is carried off by « griffin to 


@ distant island, where three princesses 
take charge of him, In due time a ship 
touches on the island, takes all the four 
to Irland, and Hagen marries Hilda, the 
ye of the three sisters. 

iii In due time Hilda has a 
danghter, who is called by the same name, 
and at a marriageable age she becomes 
the wife of Hedel king of Friesland. 

Audrun. Hilda has two children, 
Otwein [Ot.vine] a son, and Kudrun a 
daughter. Kudrun is RT fag 6 Ee 

it, but, while prepari weddit 
areas, th carri off by Hartmut, aoa 
Ludwig king of Normandy. Her father 

in pursuit, bot is slain by Ludwig. 
On reaching Normandy, (rerlinde (3 ay), 
the queen-mother, treats Kudrun with the 
greatest cruelty, and puts her to the most 
menial work, because she refuses to 
her gon. At length, auccour is at fant. 
Her lover and [rother arrive and slay 
Ludwig. Gerlinde is just about to put 
Kedrun to death, when Watt Long-beard 
rushcs in, slays the queen, and rescues 
Kudrun, who is forthwith married to 
Herwig her affianced lovor.—Anuthor 
unknown (some of the minnesingers). 


Ewa'sind, the strongest man that 


ever lived, the Werculéa of the North | 


American Indians. He could pull up 
eedars and pines by the roots, and toss 
huge rocks about like playthings, His 
wondrous strength waa ‘‘sented in hia 
crown,” and there of course lay his point 
of weakness, but the unly weapon which 
could injure him was the “blue cone of 
the fir tree," a secret known only to the 
pygmiesor Little-folk. This mischievous 
race, out of jealousy, determined to kill 
the strong man, and one day, finding him 
galeep in a boat, pelted him with fir 
cones till he died; and now, whenever the 
tempest rages throuczh the forexta, and the 
branches of the trees creak and groan and 
aplit, they say ‘‘ Kwasind is gathering in 
bis fire-wood," 

Dear, ton, unio Alewstha 

Was the very strong man Kwaelod ; 

He the strongest of all mortals. 

Longfellow, Miawatka, vi. and owill, 


e Elyson de Montalban 

Don) or “don Quirieleyson de Mon- 

van,” brother of Thomas de Montalban, 

in the romana: called Tirante le Blanc, 
author unknown, 

*," Dr. Warburton, in his esany on the 


old romances, falla into the strange error | 
this character 


<f callin 


an “early 


L. 
Lab’arum, the imperial standard 


earried before the Roman emperors in 


| war. Constantine, having seen aluminous 


cross in the sky the night before the 
battle of Saxa Rubra, added the sacred 
monogram XP (CAristos).—Gibbon, Decline 
and Fall, etc., xx. note (1788), 

kK. Browning erroneously calla the word 
laba'rum. 


- + Stam would write bis will in heaven, 
As once when 6 lidinim wea not deemed 
Hoe neh for the old founder of these walls [Constanti- 
- K Browning, Paracelzus, tl 
Labe (2 syl.), the sorceres een of 
the Island of Enchantments. She tried 
to change Beder, the young king of Per- 
sia, into a halting, one-eyed hack ; but 
Beder was forewarned, and changed Labé 
herself into a mare.—Arabian Nights 
(“* Beder and Giauharé"), 
Labe'rius, a Roman writer of panto. 
mimes, contemporary with Julius nee . 
Lahering would be always sary of more [ollowers thas 
Sopbochts —J. Macpherson, /Neertation of Ogi im, 
La Creevy (Afiss), a little talka- 
tive, bustling, cheery miniature-painter, 
Simple-minded, kind-hearted, and bright 
agalark, She marries Tim Linkinwater, 
the old clerk of the brothers Cheeryble.— 
C. Dickens, Nicholas Nickleby (1838), 


Lackitt (Widow), the widow of an 


| Indian planter. This rich vulgar widow 


falla in love with Charlotte Weldon, who 
assumes the dress of a young man and 
calls herself Mr. Weldon. Charlotte 
even marries the widow, but then informs 
her that she is a girl in male apparel, 
engaged to Mr. Stanmore. widow 
consoles herself by marrying Jack Stan- 
es). Southern, Oroonoke 





LADY OF MERCY 


Pauline os his loving and true-hearted 
ci L. B. Lytton, Lady of Lyons 


Lady of Mercy (Our), an order of 
boii in Spain, instituted in 1218 
ames |. of Aragon, for the deliver- 


nts of Christian captives amongst the | 


Moors. As many ox 400 captives were 
rescued in six years by these knighta, 


Lady of Bhalott, a 
died for love of sir Lancelot of the Lake. 
a he has a poem so entitled, 
The story of Elaine, “‘ the sd 
maid of Astolat," in Tennyson's Jdyé 
of the King, is substantially the same. 


Riles Dowslas the goers Heart, 


las, The cognizance of the 
gage family i “bleedin heart."— 
¥ cf) 


(1810). 
Lady of the Lake 
(Anglo-Saxon, ldc, “apresent.") A 
‘culnea-fowl” or “ guinea-hen” is a 
similar term, 


fiat for the difference marriages makes 
“Terist wives and ** adhe of the lake. 
B. Bother, Mmatiivas, tL 1 toe] 
Lady of the Lake (The), Nimoe 

one of the damsels of the lake, that ri 
Pellinore took to his court. Merlin, in 
bis dotage, fell in Jove with her, when 
she wheedied him out of all his BOcTets, 
and mone him in a rock, where he 
died ( 60). Subsequently, Nimua 
marrie sir Pellens (pt. i. 61, 82). (See 
next art.) 


fo Uroe it happened that Marlin showed 
siete tea bok rock whore wm 8 greet wonder, and 
wrought by enchentoent, whieh wral ooder a sions. 
Bu, ly ber ebile oroaff ond working, the male Meriio 
go auder‘thaistene .. , om!) a wrought thal he oerer 
coer-out aga do she oral heft a. —Sir 

T. Maley, Mistery af Prince edie L i Leo). 


*,* Tennyson, in his /dyils of the King 
ch Merlin and Vivien"), makes Vivien 
the enchaniress who wheedled old Merlin 
out af his secrets; and then, “in a hollow 
oak," ebe shut him fast, and there “‘he 
lay as dead, and list to life, and use, and 
Dame, anil fame.’ 

This seems to bean error. At any rate, 
it t@ mot in accordance with the DMurt 
@ Arthur of Caxton renown. 


Lady of the Lake (The), Nineve. It is 
ant evident from the narrative whether 
Nineve is oot the same person as Nimue, 
and that one of the two (probably the 
latter) ia not a typographical error. 

Then the Lady of the Lake, thet wee aftwuype 


Wat king Aribur. untertieed by bar subtle crafts that 
roped ; are 


king Arthur was like ts hare beeen chegt there 
uare j of the Lake, that bight Nimers, came Into 


2s 


52 
| the forest to nesk dir 
Hiatery 


a maiden who © 


(A), a harlot. | 





LADIES’ BROCE 


dr Lameeiot do Leke.—Sir T, Malory, 
of Prince Arter, iL GF (Lat). 


| The feasts that underground the faery did him (4 rther] 


Li its 
Drayton, 


Lady of the Lake (The). Vivienne 
al.) Os La Somme che du Lac, and Ah 
aed bag pendant gy bag? syd enbaag, bae 
She stole Lancelot in his infancy, and 
plunged with him into her home lake ; 
: ce was Lancelot called du Lac, ibe = 
er profége was grown to manhood, 
presented him to ing Arthur. 


the Lake ( The) Ellen 
ee yourite of king James ba 
when her father fell into she 


) sane oe ae ae ee of 


the Lake (1810). P vas of 


yofthe Lake and Arthur’s 

Ewen en any of lake ve to 

poe are sword “ Excalibur.” 
ay Fei pee ah poy wero barge 
and row yourself to the sword, and 
it.” §o Arthur and Merlin came to the 
aword that a hand beld up, and took it 
by the handles, and the arm and hand 


went under the lake again (pt. i. 23). 
This Lady of the e asked ’ re- 
compensa the head of sir Balin, becanse 


te had alain her brother; but the king- 
refused the request, Then said Balin, 
““ Evil be ye found! Ye would have m 
head ; therefore ye shall lose thine own.’ 


| So saying, with his sword he smote off 


her head in the presence of Arthour, 
—Sir T. Malory, History of Prince 

| Arthur, i. 28 (1470). 
Atheliled 


= Saaae of the Mercians, 
da, daughter of king Alfred. 
She married #thelred chief of that por- 
tion of Mercia not claimed by the Danes, 


Lady of the Sun, Alice Perrers 
(or Pierce), 2 mistress of Edward III. of 
England, She was o married woman, 
and bad been lady of the bed~<chamber 
to queen Philippa. Edward lavished on 
ber both riches and honours; but when 
the king was dying &, he ahe ge ‘his jewels, 


and even the rings fro fingers. 
Lady with a shee Florence 
Nightingale (1820- ). 
o Eagle's anpals . 
& Lady with a pp shall stand . 
A motile type gonnl, 
efulc fun lice, 


Longielow, Famia Pileeies 

Ladies’ Rock, Stirling (Scotland) 
Se ees Ss a Piper Maem 

preter oe aleut anecrs, .. . for jostings eee 
nes. oo, Chats eliinicg. . ee 








LAKEDION. 


Laked’ion (iiss : the name given 
in Fraace to the Wandering Jew (¢.v.). 
ale Rookh, the eel sts ee 
emperor 
Ses betretbak ty Lilvis salina: of Lasser 
Bucharia. On her journey from Delhi 
to Cashmere, wets was entertained 
Fer’amorz, 8 Persian poet, wi 
whom she ‘a ove, and unbounded 
was her delight when she discovered that 
the young poet was the sultan to whom 
she was betrothed.—T. Moore, alla 


Rookh (1817). 
Seat. Wondstook (time, 





Lambert 
leader.—Sir W 
leader Sir. Son 


Sir John), the dupe .of Dr. 
Cantw: hypocrite.” He entertains 
him as his guest, settles on him £400 a 
and tries to make his oe 
Tha: lotte marry him, although he 
ang she is sander 20. His oye ore cpaaed 
at length by the mercenary and licentious 
conduct of. the doctor. Lady Lambert 
assists in exposing him, but old lady 
Lambert remains to the last a believer 
in the “saint.” In Molitre’s comedy, 
i “ Orgon” takes the place of Lam 
‘© Mide. Parnelle” of the old lady, an 
“ ee ” of Dr. Cantwell. 
Lambert, the gentle, loving wife 
of sir Sa Bya ‘stratagem, she convinces 
de ere of Dr. Cantwell’s true cha- 


Colonel Lambert, son of sir John and 
lady Lambert. He assiste in unmasking 
** the hypocrite.” 

Charlutte Lambert, daughter of sir John 
and lady Lambert. "A pretty, bright girl, 
somewhat giddy and fond of teasin her 
swectheart Damley (see act i. 1).—I. 
Bickerstaff, The Hipocrite (1769). 


Lambourne (Jfichael), a retainer of 
the earl of Leicester.—Sir W. Scott, 
Kenilworth (time, ages 

father of 


Lambro, a Greek 
ecg (« .0.).—Byron, uan, iii. 26, 
ete. (1820). 


© confer thet our sympathy ts most excited by the 
tect, woif.like suffering of when he ez 

“the of passing his own door without } a welcome,” 
and Gnde *' the Innucenre uf that sweet child ” polluted. 
Finden, Byron Beasties. 

*,° The original of thie character was 
major Lambro, who was Sa es (1791) 
of a Russian piratical squadrun, which 
plundered the ixlands mot the Greek 
Archipelago, and did great damage. When 
bie squadmo was attscked by seven 
Algerine corsairs, major Lambro was 








ety eh corer 
a ee Vv 
and sevenfold. " en, iv, 28, 24. 


As Lemech gree old, bls eyes became iim, and finally 
ell sight wat taken from them. and Tubal-cuin, his aon, 
yl him by the hand when he walked abroed, And it 

came io pam... . Dhoet he lel bib father Into the Neds to 

bunt, wd el ‘to hue thither: “ Lot yorder ls a bent of 
preys sheet thine arrow In that directv.” Lemeck 
as eo bie! qpenken, ated thee prow etrock Calin, wha 
was Walking alar off, ond Eile) him... How whew 
Lemecii . . . =® |nie} that be hed killed Cain, be 
trent! Soeslingiy... . and being blind, be Gow pot 
bks sori, /ul eirock the bul’ heed between his juan, mal 
kitted bin. . And be ciel to bie wires, Ada onl 
Zieh, “ Listen to ay voles, ye wives of Lemech. . | 
have ee, — bs giana te nig lec, aiid @ chile) bo may @caind- 
ing! "The Talmud, L 

Lamin’ak, Basque fairies, little 
folk, who live under ground, and some 
times come into houses down the chimney, 
in order to change a fairy child for a 
human one. They bring luck with 
them, but insist on great cleanliness, and 
always give their orders in words the 

opposite of their Denroe Lanes 

hate church bells. Ev 
is named Guillen (Willian)? (See Say 
AXD ne ) 


on, a follower of sir 
Ponies ir V iw Peveril raf the Fock 
(time, Charles I 


Lami’ra, he of Cham and 
daughter of Vertaigné (2 cd a nudle- 
men and a judge --Beaumont and Filet 


cher, The Little Fretch Loreyer (1667). . 





LANCELOT DU LAC. 








LANGUAGE. 





from his master.—Shakespeare, Werchant 
of Venice (1598), 

Tarleton [1530-1558] was Inimitable In such parte ms 
oie gts Abeta i ool eo coe oa 
Baker, Orr vskel on ™ 

Lancelot du I by Ulrich of 
Zazikoven, the most ancient poem of the 
Arthurian serics. 
of a young knight, ey, and goxnes with 
animal spirits and light-heartedness. 
(See Lauxce.ot.)—(ne of the minne- 
songs of Germany (twelfth century), 


Lancelot du Lac and Tarquin. 
Sir Lancelot, seeking adventures, met 
with a lady who prayed him to deliver 
certain knights of the Round Table from 
the power of Tarquin. Coming to a 
river, he saw a copper basin hung on 4 
tree for gong, and he struck it so hard that 
it broke. This brought out Tarquin, and 
a furions combat ensued, in which Tarquin 
was slain, Sir Lancelot then liberated 
three score and four knights, who had 
been made captives by Tarquin. (See 
Launce.cot.)—lercy, Moliques, I. ii, 9. 


Lancelot of the Laik, a Scotch 
metrical romance, taken from the French 
Launcelot du Lac. Galiot, a neighbour- 
ing king, invaded Arthur's territories, and 
captured the castle of lady Melyhalt 
among others. When sir Lancelot went 
te chastise Galiot, he saw geeos Guine- 
vere, and fell in love with her. The 
French romance makes Galiot submit to 
king Arthur; but the Scotch tale termi- 
nates with his capture. (See Launce- 
LOT.) 


Land of Beulah, land of rest, re- 
presenting that pence of mind which some 
true Christians experience prior to death 
(Jsaiah Ixii. 4).—Lunyan, J’ilyrim’s Pro- 
gress, i. (1078). 


Land of Joy. Worms, in Germany, 
was so called by the minnesingers, from 
its excellent wine. 


Landey'’da (“the desolation of tie 
eountry "), the miraculous banner of the 
ancient Lanes, on which was wrought a 
raven by the daughters of Regner Lod- 
brok, It was onder this banner that 
Hardrada and Tostig attacked Harold at 
the battle of Stamford Bridge, a little 
hefore the battle of Senlac ( Mustimys), 

Landi (The Féte of the) 
mayne showed to pilgrims once a year 
the relica of the chapel in Aix-la-Chapelle. 
Charles /¢ Chrmure removed the relics to 


Paris, and exhilited them once a year in | 


Tt is the adventures | 


Charle- | 





a large field near the boulevard St. Denis 
fnec]. A procession was au en 
ormed, and a fair beld the first Monday 

after St. Barnabas’s Day. 

‘abort Lagat fat déankivement (ao On de oes 

an lew dineietumn,; Fieukier, Temil'’, 

fandit, & enfin landi.—A. Domes, L' arvatepa, L 

Landois (Peter), the favourite minis- 

ter of the duc de Bretagne.— Sir W. 

Scott, Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward 

IV.). 


Landsca Gardening (Father 
of), Lenotre (is1s-1700). 

Lane (Janz), danghter of Thomas, 
and sister of colonel John Lane. To save 
king Charles If. after the battle of 
Worcester, she rode behind him from 
Bentley, in Staffordshire, to the house 
of her cousin Mrs, Norton, near Bristol. 
For this act of loyalty, the king granted 
the family the following armorial device: 
A strawberry horse saliant (couped at the 
flank), bridled, bitted, and i 
ers elgg 3 between its feet royal crown 
proper. Motto: Garde fe roy. 

Lane (Tie), Drury Lane. 

Been ve Ceska: oct ulurresehs Uae Lame —atnnpte 
Bur (W. C, Macready), 76 (1873) 

Lansham (Master Robert), clerk of 
the council-chamber door. * 

Sybil Lancham, his wife, one of the 
revellers at Kenilworth Castle.—Sir W. 
Scott, Aenitworth (time, Elizabeth), 

Langeale (The laird of), a leader im 
the covenanters’ army.—Sir W. Scott, 
Qld Mortality (time, Charles I1.). 

Langley (Sir Frederick), a sniter to 
Miss Vere, A one of the M ebite con- 
gpirators with the laird of Ellicslaw.—Sir 
W. Scott, The Black Dwarf (time, Anne). 


Langosta (Dwte of), the 8 
nickname of Aosta the elected k nig of 
Spain. The word means “a locust” oF 
‘“ plunderer.” 


Language (The Pri , 

Peametichuos, an Egyptian king, wiso- 
ing to ascertain what e Nature 
gave to man, shut up two infants where 
no word was ever uttered in their heag- 
ing. When brought before the king, they 
said, bekos (** toast ").—Herodutos, i, 2. 

Frederick LJ, of Sweden tried the same 
experiment. 

James I'V. of Scotland, in the fifteenth 
century, shut op two infaats in the Lale 
of aith, with only a dumb attendant 





LARA. 








CT) 


LAST MAN. 





Lara, the name assumed by Conrad 
the corsair after the death of Medo'ra. 
On his return to his native country, he 
was recognized by sir Ezzelin at the 
table of lord Otho, and charged home by 
him. Lara arranged a duel for the day 
following, but sir Ezzelin disa 
mysteriously, Subsequently, Lara eaded 
@ rebellion, and was shot by Otho,— 
Byron, Zara (1814). 

Lara (The Seoen Sons of), sone 
Gonzalez Gustios de Lara, a Cantilion 
hero, brother i Ferdinaed Gonzalez 
eount of Castile. A quarrel having arisen 
between Gustios Rodrigo Velasques 
his brother-in-law, Rodrigo caused him 
to be imprisoned in Cordova, and then 
allured his seven nephews into o ravine, 
where oe were all slain by an ambus- 
eade, after pen eee of valour. 
While in prison, Zaida, da of 
Almanzor the Moorish prince, fell in ia love 
with Gustios, and became the mother of 
Mudarm, who avenged the death of hia 
seven brothera (a.m. 993), 

7° Lape de Vega has made this the 
subject o Spanish drama, which has 
several imitations, one by Mallefille, in 
1836,—See Ferd. Denis, Vhroniques Cheoa- 
beresques I Es payne (1839). 


Larder (Tie Dowylas), the flour, 
meal, wheat, and malt of Douglas Castle, 
emptied on the floor by good lord James 
Douglas, in 1507, when he took the 
castle from the Ken lish garrison. Hav- 
ing staved in all the barrels of food, he 
next emptied all the wine and ale, and 
then, having slain the garrison, threw the 
dead bodies into this disyusting mesa, 
“to eat, drink, and be merry."—Sir W. 
Scott, Tules of a Grandfather, ix. 
Wisllace's er is wm similar mesa. 
Tt consisted of the dead bodies of the 
arrison of Ardrossan, in Ayrshire, cast 
into the dungeon keep. The castle was 
surprised by him in the reign of Edward I, 


Lardoon (/ady Hab), a caricature of 
fine life, the “‘ princess of dissipation,” 
and the il prentest qamester of the times.” 
She becomes engaged to sir Charles 
Dupely, and says, “‘to follow fashion 
where we fecl shame, is the strongest of 
all hyporrisy, and from thia moment I 
renounce it." '—J. Hurgoynoe, The Maid of 
the Ouks, 


La Roche, a Swiss pastor, travelling 
through France with his daughter 
Margaret, was taken ill, and like to die. 
There was only o /ayside inn in the 


«place, but Hume the ~ 
of the circumstance, and 


| good nursing, La Roche recovered, 


lesopher heard 
removed the 
sick man to his own house. Here, with 
friendshi ake 
strong friendship sprang rt between the 
two. Hume even accompanied La Roche 
to his manse in Berne. the lapse of 
three years, Hume was infers that 
Mademoiselle waa about to be married 
to a young Swiss officer, and hastened to 
Berne to be present at the wedding. On 
reaching the neighbourhood, he observed 
some men filling up a grave, and found 
on inquiry that Mademoiselle had Just 
died of o broken heart. In ber 
lover ca been shot in «a duel, and the 
shock ws too much for her. The old 
pastor bore up heroically, and Hume 
admired the faith which could sustain a 
man in such an affliction.—H. Mackenzi 
“Story of La Roche" (in The Mirror). 
Is the emperor or over-king of the 
ancient Etr ns. <A khedive, satrap, 


or under-king, waa called /iciimo. Thus 
the king of Prossin, os emperor of 
Germany, is fare, but the king varia 
is a /ucwne. 

nique wiest of thelacd 

Vie soe by Lars octia, 


Larthmor, petty «ing of Ber’rathon, 
one of the Scandinavian islands. He 
was dethroned by his son Uthal, but 
Fingal sent Ossian and Toscar to his aid, 
Uthal was slain in single combat, and 
Larthmor was restored to his throne,— 
Ossian, Berration, 


Larthon, the leader of the Fir-bolg 
or Belew of Britain who settled in the 
southern parts of Ireland. 


Larthon, the first of Bolga’s rice who travelled in the 
finds Whitthsonm) sprenl the milla of the bling 
towards . a [ireftnad | Don night wna 


rulied bedure with tts skirts of mist, Uneonstant 
blew the wleds and rolled him from ware to ware, — 
Outen, Femora, vil 

Lascaris, a citizen.—Sir W. Scott, 
Count Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 

Las-Ca'sas, a noble old Spaniard 
who vainly attempted to pot a age rr 
the barbarities of his yg ee 
even denounced them (act i her 
dan, Pizarro (1799, altered A ~Sher 
hue}. 


Tameetien (Lad: op al mappa 
to be Misa M. FE, don,— 
207%, p. 82 (C. R. Jackson). 


Last Man (The), Charles J.5 on 








hinds jeered at her as she knelt by a 
frontain in Delos to drink, and were 
changed into frogs. 
when those binds that were transformed to frogs, 
at Latona's twin-born progeay, 
after held the sun and moon in fea 
Milton, Sennete. 
Latorch, duke Rollo’s ‘‘earwig,” in 
the y called The Bloody Brother, 
hy Beaumont and Fletcher (16389). 
Latro (Marcus Porcius), a Roman 
rhetorician in the reign of Augustus ; a 
Sp: niard by birth. 
I became as mad as the disciples of Porcius Latro, 


who, when they made themesives as pale as their 
master by drinking decoctions of cumin, imagined them- 
eslves as —Levage, Gt! Bias, vil. 9 (1738). 


Laud (Archbishop). One day, when 
the archbishop was rbout to say grace 
before dinner, Archie Armstrong, the 


royal jester, begged igsion of les 
I. to perform the office instead. The re- 
guest being granted, the wise fool said, 
* All praise to God, and little Laud to 
the devii!” the point of which is much 
increased by the fact that the archbishop 
was a very smal] man. 


Lauderdale (The duke of); president 
of the privy council.—Sir W. Scott, Old 
Mortality (time, Charles IT.). 


Laugh (Jupiter's). Jupiter, we are 
told, laughed incessantly for seven days 
after he was born.—Ptol. Hephzstion, 
Nov. Hist., vii. 


Laugh where you Must, be 
id where you Can.—J. Bur- 
goyne, Zhe Mud of the Oaks, i. 2. 


Laughi Philosopher (The), 
Democ’ritos of Abde’ra (B.c. 460-357). 

*,* He laughed or jeered at the feeble 
powers of man so wholly in the bands 
of fate, that nothing he did or said was 
uncontrolled. The ‘‘Crying Philosopher ” 
was Heraclitos. 

Dr. Jeddler, the philosopher, who 
locked upon the world as a ‘‘ great prac- 
tical joke, something tov absurd to be 
considered scriously by any rational 
rigié). Dickens, The Buttle of Life 

1846). 


Laughter is situated in the midriff. 
Here -portful laughter dwetls, here, ever sitting, 
Defies al) Jurmpish griefs and wrinkled care. 

Pb. Fletcher, The Purple laland (1633). 

Lawyhter (Death from). A fellow in 

rage told Chalchas the soothsayer that he 
would never drink the wine of the grapes 


growing in his vineyard; and added, ! 


LATORCH. §37 





LAUNCELOT. 


the wine was mde, Chalchas made a feast, 
and sent for the fellow to see how his 
prediction had failed ; and when he ap- 
peared, the soothsayer laughcd so im- 
moderately at the would-be pro that 
he died.—Lord Lytton, Tales of Miletus, 
iv. 

Somewhat similar is the tale of An- 
cwos. This king of the Lelégés, in 
Samos nted » vineyard, but was 
warned y one of his slaves that he 
would never live to taste the wine there- 
of. Wine was made from the 





and the king sent for his slave, said, 
** What do you think of your 
now ?” 6 slave made answer, 


‘“‘There’s many a slip 'twixt the cup 

the lip ;” the words were 

uttered, when the king rushed from 

to drive out of his vineyard a boar 

which was laying waste the vines, but 

was killed in the encounter.—Pausanias. 
Crassus died from laughter on eceing 

an ass eat thistles. Margutte the gian 

died of laughter on seeing an ape 

to pull on his boots. Philemon or 

loménés died of laughter on secing an 

ass eat the figs provided for his own 

dinner (Zucian, i. 2). Zeuxis died of 

laughter at sight of a hag which he had 

just depicted. 


Launay ( Vicomte de), peeud of 
Bide. Emile de Girardin (née Delphine 
ay e 


Launce, the clownish servant of 
Protheus one of the two ‘“ gentlemen 
of Verona.” He is in love with Julia, 
Launce is especially famous for solilo- 
quies to his dog Crab, “the sourest- 
natured dog that lives.” Speed is the 
serving-man of Valentine the other 
‘* ventleman.” — Shakespeare, The Twe 
Gentlemen of Veruna (1594). 


Launcelot, bard to the countess 
Brenhilda's father.—Sir W. Scott, Cound 
Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 


Launcelot (Sir), originally called Gaia- 
had, was the son of Ban ing of Ben- 
wick (Brittany) and his wife Elein (pt. i. 
60). He was stolen in infancy by 
Vivienne the Lady of the Lake, whe 
brought him up till he was presented te 
king Arthur and knighted. In conse 
uence, he is usually called sir Launcelot 
u Lac. fon] of in see eighth Geis 
ur generation] of our our” iii, 
); was uncle to sir Bors de Ganis 


If these words do not come true Y (pt. iii. 4) ; his brother was sir Ector de 


may claim me for your slave.” 


(pt. ii. 127); and his soa, by 





LAUNCELOT. 


Launcelot and (fwenever, Sir Launce- 
lot was chosen by king Arthur to conduct 
Guenever (his bride) to court; and then 

that disloyalty between them 
which lasted to the end, Gottfried, the 
German minnesinger (twelfth century), 
who wrote the tale of sir Tristan [our 
Tristram), makes king Mark send Tris- 
tan to Ireland, to conduct Yseult to 
Cornwall, and then commenced that dis- 
ty between sir Tristram and his 
uncle's wife, which also lasted to the end, 
and was the death of both. 

Launcelot Mad. Sir Lanncelot, having 
offended the queen, was so vexed, that he 
went mad for two years, balf raving and 
half melancholy. Being partly cored by 
a vision of the holy graal, settled 
for a time in Joyous Isle, under the 
assumed name of La Chevalier Mal-Fet. 
liis deeds of prowess soon blazed 
abroad, and brought about him certain 
knights of the Hound Table, who pre- 
vailed on him to return to court. en 
followed the famous quest of the holy 
graal, Theo quest of the gran] ia the 
subject of a minnesong by Wolfram 
(thirteenth century), entitled Parzival, 
(In the Mistory of Prince Arthur, com- 
piled by sir T. Malory, it is Galahad son 
of sir Lasnesiot. not Percival, who ac- 
complished the quest.) 

*," The madness of Orlando, by 
Ariosto, resembles that of sir Launcelot. 

Launcelot a Mont, When sir Launcelot 
discovered that Guenever was resolved to 
remain a nun, he himself retired to a 
monastery, and was consecrated a hermit 
by the bishop of Canterbury. After 
twelve months, he was wiraculoualy 
summoned to Almesbury, to remove to 
Glastonbury the bie who was at. the 
sr of death. (Guenever died half an 

our before sir Launcelot arrived, and 
he himself died soon afterwards (pt. iii. 
174). The bishop in attendance on the 
dying knight altirmed that “he saw 
angela heave sir Launcelot up te heaven, 
and the gates of paradise open to receive 
him" (pt. iii, 175). Sir Bors, his nephew, 
discovered the dead body in the cell, and 
had it buried with all honours at Joyous 
Guard (pt. iii. 175).—Sir. T. Malory, 
flustury uf Prince Arthur (1470), and also 
Walter Mapes. 

Whee dr Bor and bie felleews come to bbe (oir Laance- 
at's) beel. they found bint siark del, and he lop os he 
bed culled, srl the ewretet savoer alwut hl that ever 


Giay suelini.—sir T, Mallory, Siatery of f*'risca Artur, 
UL 176 | iaveL 


N.B.—Sir Launcelot intended, when 





be guitted the court of Arthur and re-— 


| Charretie, 





LAURA. 


tired to Renwick, to found religions 
houses every ten miles between 

wich and Carlisle, and to visit every one 
of them barefoot ; but king Arthur made 
war upon him, and put an end to this 
intention, 

*,* Other particulars of sir Lawnoolet. 
The tale of sir Launcelot was first com- 
peed in monkish Latin, and was trans- 
ated by Walter Mapes (about 1180). 
Robert de Borron wrote a Froneh version, 
and sir T. Malory took his greg of 
Prince Arthur from the French, the thi 
part being chiefly confined to the adven- 
tures and death of this favourite knight, 
There is a metrical romance called La 
n by Chrestiens de Troyes 
Saige oy century), and finished by Geof- 

de Ligny. 


Laun'celot, the man of Mons. Thomes. 
(See LaxceLor.)—Heaumontand Fletehes, 
Afons. Thomas (1619), 


Launfal (Sir), steward of king 
Arthur, Dotesting queen Ciwennere, he 
retired to Carlyoun, and fell in love with 
a lady named Tryamour. She gave him 
an unfailing purse, and told him if he 
ever wished to see her, all he had to do 
was to retire into a private room, and she 
would be instantly with him. Sir Launfal 
now returned to court, and excited mach 
attention by his great wealth. Gwen- 
nere made advances to him, but he told 
her she was not worthy to kiss the feet 
of the lady to whom he was devoted. 
At this repulse, the angry queen com- 
plained to the king, and apdared to him 
that she had been most grossly insulted 
by his steward. Arthur bade ur 

roduce this paragon of women. On 

er arrival, sir Launfal was allowed to 
accompany her to the isle of Ole’ron; 
and no one ever caw him safterwards.— 
Thomas Chestre, Ser Launfal (a metrical 
romance, time, Henry VI.). 

*," James Russell Lowell has a poem 
entitled The Vision of Sir Launfal, 

Laura, niece of duke Gondibert, 
loved by two brothers, Arnold and Hugo, 
the latter dwarfed in stature. Laura 
herself loved Arnold; but both brothers 
were slain in the faction fight stirred up 
by prince Oswald against, duke Gondie 
bert, his rival in the love of Rhodalind 
only ebild of Aribert king of Lombardy. 


became attached to Tybalt. As tale 
was oever finished, we have no key te 
the poet's intention respecting Laura ead 


| On the death of Amold and H 





LAVINIA. 





Lavir'ia, daughter of Titus Andron’- 
icus a Roman general emploved ayainst 
the Goths. She was betrothed to Bassia’- 
nus, brother of Saturnius emperor of 
Rome.  Heing defiled by the sons of 
Tamora queen of the Goths, her hands 
were cut off and her tongue plucked out. 
At length her father Titus killed her, 
saying, ‘‘I am as woeful as Viryinius was, 
and have a thousand times more cause 
than he to do this outraye."—(?) Shake- 
speare, Titus Andron’icus (1593). 

In the play, Andronicus is always 
called An.drun’.i.kus, but in classic 
authors it is n.dro.ni’.kus. 


Lavin'ia, sister of lord Al’tamont, and 
wife of Horatio —N. Rowe, Zhe Fair 
Penitent (1703). 


Lavinia and Pale’mon. Lavinia 
was the daughter of Acasto patron of 
Palemon, from whom his “liberal fortune 
took its rise.” Acasto lost his property, 
and dying, left a widow and daughter in 
very indigent circumstances. Palemon 
often sought them out, but could never 
find them. One day, a lovely modest 
maiden came to glean in VPalemon’s 
felds. The young squire was greatly 
struck with her exceeding beauty and 
modesty, but did not dare ally himself 
witb a pauper, Upon inquiry, he found 
that the beautiful gleaner was the daugh- 
ter of Acasto; he proposed marriage, and 
Lavinia ‘ blushed assent."’ — Thomson, 
Seasons (“ Autumn,” 1730), 

*.* The resemblance between this tale 
and the Bible story of Ruth and Boaz 
must be obvious tu every one. 


Lavinian Shore (Tic), Italy. La- 
vinium was a town of Latium, founded 
by A.ne’as in honour of his wife Lavinia. 


From the rich Lavinlan shore, 
I yuur market come to store. 


Shakespeare. 

Law of Athens (Tir). By Athe- 
nian law, a father could dispose of his 
dauzhter in marriaze as he liked. Egitus 
pleaded this law, and demanded that his 
dauyhter Hermia should marry Demétrius 
or suffer the penalty of the law; if sbe 
will not 


Consent to marry with Demetrius, 
Lt» the ancien? privilege of Athens 3 
Asahbe ls mine, I may dispos of her: 
Which shall be either to this gentleman, 
Or to her death; sceording to our law, 
Bhakespeare, Midsummer Niyht's Dream, 
act L ec. 1 (150z). 


Law of Flanders (74e). Charlies 
“the Good,” earl of Flanders made a law 
that a serf, unless legally emancipated, was 


541 





LAW'S TALE. 


always a serf, and that whoever married 
a serf became a serf. S. Knowles has 
founded his trazedy called Zhe Provost of 
Brwyes on this law (1836). 


Law of Lombardy ( The}. 
We have a law peculiar to this realm, 
That -ubjects to a mortal penalty 
A'l women nobly born... who, to the shane 
Of chastity, o’ertenp Its thorny bounds, 

Tu wanton in the dowery path of plensure. 


Act iL & 

On this law Robert Jephson has founded 
the following tragedy: The duke Bire’no, 
heir to the crown, falsely charges the 
princess Sophia of incontinence. The 
villainy of the duke being discovered, he 
is slain in combat by a Briton named 
Paladore, and the victor marries the 
princess (1779). 


Law’s Bubble, the famous Missis- 
sippi scheme, devised by John Law 
(1716-1720). 


Law’s Tale (The Man of), the tale 
about Custance, daughter of the emperor 
of Rome, affianced to the sultan of Syria. 
On the wedding night the sultan’s mother 
murdered all the bridal party for apos- 
tacy, except Custance, whom she turned 
adrift in a ship. The ship stranded on 
the shores of Britain, where Custance was 
rescned by the lord-constable of North- 
umberland, whose wife, Hermegild, be- 
came much attached to her. A young 
knizht wished to marry Custance, but 
she declined his suit; whereupon he 
murdered Herimegild, and then laid the 
knife beside Custance, to make it appear 
that she had committed the deed. Kin 
Alla, who tried the case, soon discover 
the truth, executed the knight, and 
married Custance. Now was repeated 
the same infamy as occurred to her in 
Syria: the qucen-mother Donegild dis- 
approved of the match, and, during the 
absence of her son in Scotland, embarked 
Custance and her infant son in the same 
ship, which she turned adrift. After 
floating about for five years, it was taken 
in tow by the Roman fleet on its return 
from Syria, and Custance was put under 
the charge of a Roman senator. It so 
happened that Alla was at Rome at the 
very time on a pilyrimage, met his wife, 
and they returned to Northumberland 
toyether. 

This story is found in Gower, whe 
probably tovk it from the French chru- 
nicle of Nicholas Trivet. 

A similar story forms the outline of 
Enmiré (3 syl.), a romance in Riteon’s 
collection. 











LEAD APES IN HELL. 


that ber only wish was to “dwell in 
jurity and serve God in singleness of 

art.” Herangel lover, in the madness 
of his passion, told Las the spell-word 
that gave him admittance into heaven. 
The moment Lea uttered it, her body 
became spiritual, rose through the air, 
aod vanished from sight, On the other 
band, the angel lost his ethereal nature, 
and became altogether earthly, like a 
ehild of cla —T. Moore, Loves of the 
Angels, i, (1822). 

Lead Apes in Hell, ue. die an old 
maid, 

Ard cow Tatlanth?, theo art all my cre... 

Pity that pou, who've so hong ml weil, 

Should die a virgin, and lead apes in bell 

for youreel!, der girl, cur emplien noone : 
Your portion la twelve hundred thuusand pound. 
Carcy, CArinmiiwtonthelagas, 

League (Tie), a league formed at 
Peronne in 1576, to prevent the accession 
of Henri 1V. to the throne of France, 
because he was of the reformed reliyion. 
This leagne was mainly due to the Guises, 
Tt is occasionally called “The Holy 
Leayue;" bot the “Holy League™ 
strictly so called is quite another thing, 
and it is better not to confuund diflerent 
events by giving them the same name, 
(See Leaguer, Hoy.) 

League (The Achrun), n.c. 791-146, 
The old leayue consisted of the twelve 
Achwan cities coufedersted for self- 
defence from the remotest times, The 
league properly ao called wos formed 
against the Macedonians. 

Jenjue (The Astolvin), formed some 
three centuries n.c., when it became o 
formidable nvalte the Macedonian mon- 
archs and the Achwan League. 


Lea pue (The tirey), 1424, called Lia 
Grischa or Griulind, from the grey 
homespun dress of the confederate 
renasanta, the Gansons, in Switzerland, 
This league comliuned with the Leajrue 
Caddee (1401) and the Leayue of the Ten 
Juriedictions (14:55), in a perpetual 
alliance in 1471. The object of these 
leagues was tu resist domestic tyranny. 


Leayue (The Hunse or Hfunseatic), 1241- | 


1630, a creat commercial confederation of 
German towns, ty protect their merchan- 
dise avainstthe Ihultic pirates, and defend 
their ricbia against the Gierman barons 
end princes, JL becan with Hamborg 
and Lubeck, and was joined by Lremen, 
Hroges, Berpyn, Novogorod, London, 
Cologne, Mrinawick, Danzig; and, after. 
wanls by Lunkerjie, Anvers, Ustend, 


648 LEAGUE OF PUBLIC WEAL. 


2 =D © 


Dordrecht, Rotterdam, Amsterdam, ete. ; 
still later by Calais, Rowen, St. Malo, 
Bordeaux, Ikayonne, Marseilles, Barce- 
lona, Seville, Cadiz, and Lisbon; and 
lastly by Messina, Naples, etc.; in all 
eighty cities, 

League (The Holy), Several leagues 
are so derominated, but that emphatically 
go called is the ow of 151) against 
Louis XII., formed by pope Julius II., 
Ferdinand “the Catholic," Henry VIII., 
the Venctians, and the Swiss. Gnaston de 
Foix obtained a victory over the league 
at Ravenna in 1512, but died in the midat 
of his triumph, 

5, aaa (The Solemn), 1638, formed in 
Scotland against the episcopal govern- 
ment of the Church. 

League Caddee (Tie) or Ligue de 
la Maison de Diew Te a confederation 
of the Grisons for the purpose of resisti 
domestic tyranny, (See Leaaus, Gury. 

League of Augsburg (1686), a 
confederation uf Teg teey of Austria 
with Sweden, Saxony, Favaria, the 
circles of Swabia and Franconia, ete., 
against Louis XIV. This league was 
the beginning of that war which termi- 
nated in the peace of Ryswick (1698). 


League of Cambray (1508), formed 


| by the emperor Maximilian I,, Louis XII, 


of France, Ferdinand “ the Catholic” and 
ope Julius [1., against the republic of 
renice, 
Le e of Ratisbonne (1524), by 
the catholic powers of Geroiany against 
the progress of the Reformation. 


League of Smalkalde (December 
31, 1550), the protestant states of (er- 
many leagved against Charles Quint. It 
was almost broken up by the victory 
obtained over it at Miblberg in 147. 


League of Wurtzbu (1610), 
formed by the catholic states of (ierman 
ayainst the ‘*Trotestant Union” of Final, 
Maxiniilian J. of Havaria was at its head, 

League of the Beggars (1560), » 
combination formed against the Inquini- 
tion in Flanders. 


League of the Cities of Lom- 
bardy (1167), under the paren of 
wpe Alexander II]., against Frederick 
Parbaroea emperor of Germany. Ip 
1225, the cilies combined against Fre 


| derick II. of Germany. 


League of the Public Woal 








LEGEND. 





‘LEAR. 545 
wards put an end to her own life. Lear 
£1808) ied.— Shakespeare, King Lear 

1 e 


(The best rmers of ‘‘king Lear” 
were David Garrick (1716-1779) and W. 
C. Macready (1793-1873). The stage Lear 
is a corrupt version by Nahum Tate (Tate 
and Brady); as the stage Richard J]. 
is Colley Cibber’s travesty.) 

*.* Percy, in his Reliques of Ancient 
English Poctry, has a ballad about ‘‘ King 
is and His Three Daughters ” (series I. 
ii.). 

The story is given by Geoffrey of Mon- 
mouth, in his British History. Spenser 
has introduced the tale in his Faéry 
Queen (ii. 10). 
' Camden. tells a similar story of Ina 
se) of the West Saxons (Remains, 


Lear (Kinz), Shakespeare’s drama, 
first printed in quarto (1608), is founded 
on The True Chronicle History of Aing 
Leir and His Three Dawjhters, Gonorill, 
Ragan, and Cordelia (1605). 


Learned (7hc), Coloman king of 
Hungary (*, 1095-1114). 


Learned Blacksmith (7he), Elihu 
Burritt, the linguist (1811-1879). 


Learned Painter (The), Charles 
Lebrun, noted for the accuracy of his 
costumes (1619-1690). 


Learned Tailor (Zhe), Henry 
Wild of Norwich, who mastered, while 
he worked at his trade, Greek, Latin, 
Hebrew, Chaldaic, Synac, Persian, and 
Arabic (1684-1734). 


Learned Theban (4A), a guesser of 
riddles or dark sayings; in allusion to 
Cdipos king of Thebes, who solved the 
riddle of the Sphinx. 

I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban. 
Shakerpeare, Aing Lear, act iif. sc. 4 (1606). 

Leather-stockings, the nickname 
of Natty Bumppo, a_half-savaye and 
half-Christian chevalier of American 
wild-life. He appears in five of J. F. 
Cooper's novels, hence called the Leath- 
er-stocking Tales.—Sce Bumppo. 


Leather-stockings atands half-way between savage and 
olvilized life. He bas the freshness of nature and the 
fNevt-fruite of Christianity; the seed drop into vigorous 
peil, These are the elements of one uf the most 
sharacters in Beton. —Duychinck 


Le Castre, the indulvent father of 
Mirabel “the wild goose.”"—Beaumont 
ana Fletcher, Jie Wild-joose Chase 
(1652). 


L’Eclair (Philippe), orderly of 
tain Florian. L'Ectaie is a great boaster, 
who masks his brag under the guise of 
modesty. He pays his court to Rusa- 
belle, the lady’s-maid of lady Geraldine. 
—W. Dimond, The Foundling cf the 
Forest. 


Led Captain (A), an obsequious 
person, who styles himself ‘‘Captair ;" 
and, out of cupboard love, dances attend- 
ance on the master and mistress of a 
house. 

Mr. Wagg. the celebrated wit, and a led captain and 
of my lord Steyne, was caused by the ladies 
to make the asmult.—Thackeray, Vanity Fair, li. (1848). 

Lee (Sir Henry), an officer in attend- 
ance at Greenwich Palace.—Sir W. Scott, 
Kenilworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Lee (Sir Henry), an old royalist, and 
head-ranger of Woodstock Forest. 

Alice Lec, daughter of the old knight. 
She marries Markham Everard. 

Colonel Albert Lee, her brother, the 
friend of Charles II.—Sir W. Scott, 
Woodstock (time, Commonwealth). 


Leek, worn on St. David's Day. The 
general tale is that king Cadwallader, in 
640, gained a complete victory over the 
Saxons by the special interposition of 
St. David, who ordered the Britons te 
wear lecks in their caps, that they might 
recognize each other. The Saxons, for 
want of some common cognizance, often 
mistook friends for foes. Drayton gives 
another version: He says the saint lived 
in the valley Ewias (2 sy/.), situate be- 
tween the Ilatterill Hills, in Monmouth- 
shire. It was here ‘‘ that reverend British 
saint to contemplation lived,” 


. .. and did ao truly fast, 
As he did only drink what Hodney yields, 
And fed upon the leeks he gatbered In the Gelds, 
In memory of whom, tn each revotving year, 
The Welstimen, on his day | Murch 1}, that sacred herb do 
wear, 
Potyoldion, iv. (1612}. 

Lefevre (Lieutenant), a poor officer 
dving from want and sickness. His 
pathetic story is told by Sterne, in a novel 
called The Life and Opinions of Tristram 
Shandy (1759). 

**Mr. Fulmer, I have borrawed a book from shop. 
“Tis the sixth volume of my deceased friend, eae 
The divine story of Lefevre, which makes part of this buok, 
. . . des honogr, not to its author only, but to buman 
nature.”—CumbLerland, The Weat Jndian, i, L 


Legend (Sir Sampson), a foolish, 
testy, prejudiced, and obstinate old maa, 
between 50 and 60. His favourite oath 
is ‘‘Qdd!" He tries to disinherit his 
eldcr son Valentine, for his favourite eon 
Ben, a sailor; and he fancies Angelica 

u 











lover of his tukes possession of it, 
lie os the livi ott | 
y 


reat oes aska how he came 
b told he took it from his wife, and con- 


eludes that he means Célie. He accuses 


her of infidelity in the presence of 5gana- 
relle, and the whole mystery is cleared 
up,—Molitre, Syanarelle (1 


Lelie, an inconsequential, light-headed, 
but gentlemanly coxcomb, — Molibre, 
I’ Etourdi (1658). 
Le'man (Late), the lake of Geneva ; 
e in L ti I iz. 


Lake Laman woos me with its crystal face, 
The mirror where the stars and mntiolns view 
The stillness of their in @neh tre 


a apa aate ns their far height and mars), 
Lemnian Deed (A), one of u- 
led cruelty and barbarity. This 
reek phrase owes its origin to the 
legend that the Lemnian women rose 
one night, and put to death every man 
and male child in the island. 

On another occasion they slew all the 
men and all the children born of Athenian 
parents. 

Lenore, a name which Edgar Poe 
has introduced in two of his poems; one 
ealled Vie Haren, and the other called 
Lenore (1811-1849), 

Lenore, the heroine of Btirger’s ballad 
of that name, in which a spectral lover 
appears to hie mistress after death, 
and carries her on horseback behind him 
to the graveyard, where their marringe is 
Pa get amid a crew of howling gob- 

ing. 

*.* The Suffolk Mirocle is an old 
English ballad of like character. 


Lenormand ( Vdile.),a famous tireuse 
de cartes. She was o squat, fussy, little 
‘old woman, with a gnarled and Khotted 
Visage, and an imperturbable eye. She 
wore her hair cut short and parted on one 
side, like that of a man; Gressad in an 
odd-looking casagwin, embroidered and 
frog like the jacket of an bussar; 
aud snuffed continually. This was the 
little old woman whom Napoleon I, 
regularly consulted before setting ont on 
scampaign. Mdlle. Lenormand foretold 
to Josephine her divorce; and when 
Murat king of Naples visited her in 
disguise, she gave him the cards to cut, 
Ff he cut four times in anccession /e 

ea ith (king of diamonds); where- 
io Idle. rose and ssid, “‘ La scance 


eat terminée; c'est dix louis pour lea | 








- gave him the famous Round Table, 





who cuts it, will die by the hands of the 
executioner, See Granp Penpv.) 


Lent (Galearzo's), a form of torture 

devised by Galeazzo isconti, calculated 

prolong the victim's life for fortv 
Va. 


Len'ville (2 syl.), first ian at 
the Portsmouth Theatre. When licholas 
Nickleby joined the company, a Len- 
ville was jealous, and attem to pall 
= nose; bat t Nicholas ed the noge 

Mr. Lenville in —C, Dickens, 
Wieholcs Nickleby (1838). 


Leodegraunce or Lzopocray, king 
of Camelyard, father of Guenever (king 
Arthur's wife), Uther the dragon 
which 
would seat 150 knighta (pt. i. 45) ; _ 
when Arthur married Guenever, 
Greene gave him the table and 100 

hts as a wedding gift (pt. i. =. 
The table was made by Merlin, and 
seat had on it the name of the knight to 
whom it belon One of the seats was 
ealled ihe ‘Siege Perilous,” because no 
one could sit on it without s peril of his 
life except sir Galahad the vin 
and chaste, who accomplished the « 
History of Prince Arthur (1470). 

Lesdogran. the king of Cametlard [sel 


, Coming gf A rth, 
Le'oline (5 syi.), one of the male 
attendants of Dionys'ia wife of Cleon 
governor of Tarsus, and emplo (mpm by his 
mistress to murder Mari‘na. 


| daughter of prince Periclés, wie hed had 


been committed to her charge to bring 
up. Leoline took Marina to the shore 
with this view, when some pirates seized 
her, and sold her at Metali'né for a slave, 
Leoline told hia mistress that the orphan 
was dead, and Dionysia raised a splendid 
sepulchre to her memory.—Shakespeare, 
Pericles Prince of Tyre (1608), 


Leon, on of Constantine = Greek 
emperor, Amon an Beatrice, a ta 
of phter Brad Le ay to him thei 
daughter amant in 
the lady is in love with Pa Wwhes 
Leon discovers this attachment, he 
withdraws his suit, and Bradamant mate 





LEONORA. 549 





| LEONTES 





* to whom ahe proved a very tender and 
loving wife. Zanga the Moor, out of 
revenge, poisoned the mind of Alonzo 


against his wife, by insinuating her 


criminal love for don Carlos, Out of 
jealousy, Alonzo had his friend put to 
death, and Leonora, knowing herself sua- 

ted, put an end to her life.—Edward 
Young, DAe Nevenge (1721). 

Leono'ra, the daughter of poor parents, 
who atruck the fancy of don Diego. The 
don made a compact with her parents to 
take her home with him and place her 
under a duenna for three months, to ascer- 
tain if her temper was os sweet os her 
face was pretty, and at the expiration of 
that time, either to return her spotless or 
to make her his wife. At the end of 
three months,don Diezo (a man of 60) 
goes to arrange for the marriage, lock- 
ing bis house and garden, as he sup- 
poses, securely; but Leander, a young 
student, emitten with Leonora, makes his 
way into the house, and is about to elope 
with her when the don returns, Like a man 
of sense, don Diego at once sees the suit- 
ability of the match, consents to the union 
of the young people, and even settles a 
marriage portion on Leonora, hia ward 
if not his wife—I. Lickerstaff, The 
Padlock. 


Leonora, betrothed to Ferdinand a 
fiery young Spaniard (jealous of donna 
Clara, who has aasumed boy's clothes for 
atime), Ferdinand despises the “ am- 
whibious coxcomb,” and calls hia rival 
‘a vile compound of fnnye, lace, and 
powder.”"—Jephson, Jwo Strings to your 
Bow (1792). 


feono'ra, the heroine of Mias Edyge- 
worth'’s novel of the same name. 


fecl what is cued, and desirous of being 
eo (180%). 

feonora, wife of Fernando Florestan 
a State prisoner in Seville. In order to 
effect her husband's relense, she assumed 
the attire of a man, and the name 
of Fidelio. In this disyuise she entered 
the service of Iveco the jailer, and 
Marcellina the joiler’s daughter fell in 
love with her. lizarro, the povernor of 
the prizin, resolving to assassinate Fer- 
nando Florestan, sent Rocco and Fidelio 
te dig his grave in the pirison-cell, When 
Pizarro descended to perpetrate the deed 
of blood, Fidelio drew a piatel on Lim; 
and the minister of «tate, arnving at this 
erisia, ordered the prisrner to be released, 


The | 


object of the tale is to make the render | 





Leonora (Fidelio) was allowed to am 


| lock her husband's chains, and Pizarro‘s 


revenge came to naught.—Beothoven, 
Fidelio (an opera, 1791). 


Leono'ra, a princesa, who falls in love 
with Manri’co, the supposed son of 
Azuce'na a gipsy, but in reality the son 
of Garzia (brother of the conte di Luna), 
The conte di Luna entertains a base 
a for the princess, and, gettin 
Manrico into hia power, is about to kill 
him, when Leonora intercedes, and pro- 
mises to give herself to the count if he 
will spare his nephew's life. The count 
consents; but while he to release 
Manrico, Leonora kills herself by suck- 
ing poison from a ring, and Manrico 
dies also.—Verdi, Ji Trovato'ré (an opera, 
1853). 

Leonora (The History of), an episode 
in the novel of JosepA YY trek, b 
Fielding (1742). 


Leow'ra [p'Esrx] (2 syl.), sister of 
Alfonso IJ. reigning duke of Ferrara, 
The poet Tasso conceived a violent 
mission for this princess, but “she knew 
it mot of viewe! it with disdain.” 
Leonora never muarried, but lived with 
her eldest sister, Lauretta duchess of 
Urbino, who was separated from her 
husband. The episode of Sophronia and 
Olindo (Jerusalem Delivered, 11.) is based 
on this loveincident, The description of 
Sophronia is that of Leonora, and her 
ignorance of Olindo’s love points to the 
poet's unreyarded devotion. 


Bat thou... . shalt hare 
One-hall the lured wiih oerhades my graeme. « « 
Tre, Lemos, lt shal) be cr foie 
To be soteueed fer ever,—but tow Lala, 
Broo, Fhe Limenf af Posen (1817). 


Leonora de Guzman, the 
“fayounte"™ of Alfonzo XI. of Custile, 
Ferdinando, not knowing that she was the 
king's mistress, fell im love with berg 
and Alfunze, to reward Ferdinando’s ser- 
vices, cave her to him in marrage. No 
enoner was thia done, than the bride 
groom learned the character of hia bride, 
rejected ler with scorn, and became 
monk. Leonorm became a noviciate in 
the same convent, obtained her husband's 
forgiveness, and died.—Donizetti, Za 
Favoritu (an opera, 142), 


Leon'tesa (5 syi.), king of Sicily. 
Tie invited his old friend Polixen 
king of Bohemia to come and stay with 
him, tut became so jealous of him that 
he commanded Camillo to poison him. 
lustead of doing so, Camillo warned 





LETHEAN DEWS. 


" Lethe’an Dews, that which pro- 
duces a dreamy or and obliviousness 
of the tevmbhen | of Léthé personified 
oblivion in Grecian mythology, and the 
eoul, at the death of the body, drank of 
the river Léthé that it might carry into 
the world of shadows no remembrance of 


earth and its concerna, 
‘The wool with tender lorory the Mapes 
died o'eF thé ene Lethean a ei jen, 
Falsoner, Phe Shigeereck, lil & (17S). 


,, introduced sixteen; Simonidés and 
versity upon what letters, orhow man 

pric te to him f, 1, #. Dr. Sthith, im 

double letters" (n,#,@.x.@%). Lempriere, 


Letters (Greek). Cadmus, the Phoni- 
icharmos (the poets) introduced six or 
-— others; but there is the greatest 
attributed to them. Aristotle 
pratig Neer introduced @, x; others 

his Classical Dictionary, tells us Simoni- 

dés introduced “the” a, 
under “‘Capmvs," ascribes to him #, f ¢ 
a; and onder “Srmonipes,” 5, =, § ¥- 


Others maintain that the Simonidés' 
aren =» G ¥. 
Letters (Father of), Francois I. of 


France, Pere des ttres (1494, 1515- 
1547). Lorenzo de’ Medici, ‘the Mag- 
mificent " (1448-1492), 


Letters of the ul the 
Baws made by Godfrey and the patriarchs 
of the court of Jerusalem, ere were 


two codes, one respecting the privil 

of the nobles, and the other Napection 
the rights and duties of burghers, These 
codes were laid up in a coffer with the 
treasures of the Church of the Holy 


Sepulchre. 


Leuca‘dia’s Rock, a promontory, 
the south extremity of the island Leucas 
or Leucadia, in the Ionian Sea. Sappho 
leapt from this rock when she found 
her love for Pha'on unrequited. At the 
annual festival of Apollo, a criminal was 
hurled from Leucadia's Rock into the sea ; 
but birds of various sorts were attached to 
him, in order to break his fall, and if he 
was not killed he was set free. The leap 
aes this rock is called “The Lovers’ 

ip 


ALL Ciscoe ee eee See eee 
ovETiocka Ube wave, 


(Lapsbcoetldes ‘a 
“pyran, dom Ju 505 


dey (3 sy!.), wife of Menippus; 
eo bawd who caters for king Antig’onus, 
who, although an old man, indulges in 
the amorous folliea of a youth.— 

mont and Fletcher, The Humorous Liew- 
tenant (16-4; ). 


551 


Leucoth’'ea, once called “Ino.” Ath’- 
amas son of lus had by her two sons, 
one of whom was named Melicer’tés, 


Milton, Porudios Lost, xi, 155 (1085), 
Lev’ant Wind (The), the east wind, 


| from /evant (“the sunrise"). Ponent is 


vowels and | 


the wont wind: ux-wind teens Cha pena. 
Forth rush the Levant and the Pouant 
Mitm, Horatio 


iad, x 700 (1668. 

Leven (The ear! of), a parliamentary 
leaders Sis W. Scott, of Montrose 
(time, Charles J.), 


Leviathan of Literature (Tie), 
Dr. Samuel Johnson (1700-1784). 


Levites (The), in Dryden's Absalom 
and Achilopiel, means the nonconformiss 
ministers expelled by the Act of Con- 
formity (1681-2). 


W. ‘Seots, Heart’ of Midiothian (ine, 


George II.). 


Lewis (Don), brother of Antonio, and 
uncle of Carlos the bookworm, of whom 
he is dotingly fond. Don Lewia is no 
<ifecaee eee but he . echolar- 

ip. He 16 headstro teaty, aim 
hearted and kind, Si 4 sit 


Join ats great parts were “don Lewk." * Touy 
Lompkin, “Deb Acre ~ [1744-L531 |, —ecords af 
a Stage ary 


*.* “Tony Lumpkin” in She to 
Compuer (Goldsmith); ** Bub Acres” in 
The Kivals (Sheridan), 

Lew'is (Ld) father of . i'na.— 
Beaumont and Fletch ‘ . Eider 
wae (1637). 


peg fe mera pee! Grevory) peony] 

called ‘Monk Lewis,” from his 

The Momk (1794). Lis eer ola ae verses 
arc the ballads of Alonzo the Brave and 

Bill Jones. He also wrote a drama em 

titled Zimour the Darter (1775-1818), 








— 


LIBITINA. 


says to young Marlow and Hastings, when 
the entetabe his house for an ‘‘ inn,” 

give themselves airs, ‘This is 
Liberty Hall, gentlemen; you may do 
just as you please here."—Goldsmith, She 
Stoops to Conquer, i. 2 (1778). 


Libiti’na, the goddess who presides 
over funerals, and hence in Latin an un- 
dertaker is called /ibitina’rius. 

Be ems emacs a, Dnt 

—~Lamge, Oil Bias, tx. & (1738). 

Lib (St. Victor's), in Paris. 
doeeph Scaliger says ‘it had absolutely 
nothing in it but trash and rubbiab." 
Rabelais gives a long list of its books, 
amongst which may be mentioned the 


, se, the Cobbled-Shoe of Humility, 
Trivet of Thougit, the Cures Rap on 


the Knuckles, the Pilyruns’ Spectacies, the 
Prelutes’ ipes, the Lawyers’ Furred 
Cut, the inals' Rasp, etc.—Rabelais, 


Pantagrwel, ii. 7 (1533). 


Lichas, servant of Herculés, who 
brought to him from Dejani’ra the 
poiscned shirt of Nessus. He was thrown 

y Herculés from the top of mount Etna 
into the sea. Seneca says (Hercules) that 
Lichas was tossed aloft into the air, and 
sprinkled the clouds with his blood. 

id says: ‘‘ He congealed, like hail, in 
mid-air, and turned to stone; then, falli 
into the Euboic Sva, became a rock, whi 
still bears his name and retains the 
human form” (Jfet., ix.). 


Let me lodge Lichas on the horns of the moon. 
Qeakespenre, Antony and Cleo,atra, act iv. sc. 10 (1608). 


Licked into Shape. According to 
legend, the yous bear is born a shapeless 
mass, and the dam licks her cub into its 


proper shape. 
The she-bear licks ber cubs lato a sort 


of 
Byrun. The Deformed Transformed, 1 1 (1881). 


Lickitup (The laird of), friend of 
Neil Hlanc the town piper.—Sir W. 
Scott, Vid Mortality (time, Charles II.). 


Lie. The four P's disputed as to 
wnich could tell the greatest lie. The 
Palmer asserted that he had never seen a 
woman out of patience ; the other three 
P’s (a Pardoner, a Poticary, anda Pedlar) 
were su taken aback by this assertion that 
they instantly gave up the contest, saying 
that it Pai certainly the greatest false- 





LIGHT OF THE AG 
hood had ever heard.—Joha lay- 
wood, ri Four P's (1520). Hay- 

Lie, Tennyson says: 
A is which sails le tany be mat and frags WER ou 


ts 
Det oie ‘rhiah fe part a trath fs a harder mateer te fight. 
The Grandasther. 


Liebenstein and Sternfels, wwe 
ruined castles on the Rhine. Leoline the 
orphan was the sole surviving child o. 
the lord of Liebenstein, and two brothers 
(Warbeck and Otto) were the only sur- 
viving children of the lord of Sternfels. 
line, but as the Indy. gave Otto the pee 

as ve 
ference, Warbeck vined the craselles. 
Otte followed his brother to Palestine, 
but the war was over, and Otto brongit 
back with him a Greek girl, whom 
had made his bride. Wa now sent 
a 


the fi 

eloped, and Otto died childless. Leoline 
retired to the adjacent convent of Born- 
hofen, which was attacked by rob 
and Warbeck, in repelling them, recei 
his death-wound, and died in the lap of 
Leoline.— Zruditions of the Rhine. 


Life (The Battle o): a Christmas 
story, by C. Dickens (1846). It is the 
story of Grace and 100, the two 
daughters of Dr. Jeddler, both of whom 
loved Alfred lIleathfield, their father’s 
ward. Alfred loved the yo daugh- 
ter; but Marion, knowing of her sister's 
love, left her home clandestinely, and all 
thought sho had eloped with Michaa 
Warden. Alfred then married Grace, 
and in due time Marion made it known 
to her sister that she had given up Alfred 
to her, and had gone to live with her aunt 
Martha till they were married. It is 
said that Marion subsequently married 
Michael Warden, and found with him a 
happy bome. 

‘a, one of the three syrens. Mil- 
ton gives the classic syrens combs; but 
this is mixing Greek 8 rrens with Scandi- 
navian mermaids. igéa or Larges 
means “shrill,” or ‘‘ sweet-voiced.”) 

They oa tee Fon, Soonond rocka, 
Siecking ber suft alluring locks. 
Milton, Cones, 680 (1634). ° 

(The three syrens were Parthen’ 
Ligéa, and Leucvs’ia, not Leucothea, q.9. 

Light of the Age, Maimon’idés or 
Rabbi Moses ben on of Cors’dova 
(1135-1204). 








LILLIA-BIANCA. 555 


aanghter cf Nantolst, beloved ‘by Pine 
an 

the fellow-traveller of Mirabel *¢ the 
wild ."—-Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Wild-goose Chase (1652). 


Lilliput, the country of the Lilli- 
putians, a race of pygmies of very di- 
minutive size, to whom Gulliver appeared 
& monstrous giant.—Swift, iwer’s 
Travels (“‘ Voyage to Lilliput,” 1726). 

*.* The voyage to Lilliput is a satire 
on the manners and habits of George I. 


Lilly, the wifeof Andrew. Andrew is 
the servant of Charles Brisac a scholar.— 
eer and Fletcher, Zhe Elder Brother 

1 . 


Lilly ( William), an English astrologer, 
who was employed during the Civil Wars 
by both parties; and even Charles J. 
consulted him about his projected escape 
from Carisbrooke Castle (1602-1681). 


He talks of .¢.) and the oe . 
—W, Congreve: Looe for Lavell (ies) chost f Ualy 


ck, the collector of water- 
rates, and uncle to Mrs. Kenwigs. He 
considered himself far superior in a social 
point of view to Mr. Kenwigs, who was 
only an ivory turner; but he deigned to 
acknowledge the relative, and confessed 
him to be “an honest, well-behaved, 
respectable sort of a man.” Mr. Lilly- 
vick looked on himself as one of the 
Gite of society. ‘‘If ever an old gentle- 
man made a point of appearing in public 
shaved close and clean, that old gentle- 
man was Mr. Lillyvick. If ever a col- 
lector had borne himself like a collector, 
and assumed a solemn and portentous 
dignity, as if he had the whole world on 
his books, that collector was Mr. Lilly- 
vick.” Mr. Kenwigs thought the collec- 
tor, who was a bachelor, would leave 
each of the Kenwigses £100; but he “‘had 


the baseness"’ to marry Mise Petowker 
of the Theatre Royal, and swindle the 

enwigses 0 eir golden expecta- 
tions."—C. Dickens, Nicholas Nekleby 
(1838). 

(The), the French king for the 
time being. So called from the lilies, 
which, from the time of Clovis, form 
the royal device of France. Tasso 
Jerusalem Delivercd) calls them giyli 

ore C golden lilies”); but lord Lytton 
calls them ‘silver lilies: ” 


Lord of the ailver lilies, canst thou tefl 
If the same fate await not thy descendant f 
Cerd EB. L. B. Lytton, The Duchess de la Valldere (1086). 





LIMBO. 


Maid of Astolst, Elaine Gah 
(See LAUNCELOT AND NB. 


Lily of Medicine (The), a treatise 
written by Bernard Gordon, called Létien 
Medicine (1480). (See Gorponrus.) 


Limberham, a tame, foolish keeper. 
Sup to be meant for the duke of 
e.—Dryden, Limberham oc The 

Kind Keeper. 


‘And for no other onik we are lost. 
Danté, Informe, fv, (13008, 
Limbo of the Moon. Ariosto, in his Or 
lando Furvoso, xx xiv. 70, says, in the moon 
are treasured up the precious time misspent 
in play all vain efforts, all vows never 
paid, all counsel thrown away, all d 
fat lead to nothing, the vanity of titles, 
ry men’s. i court 
services, od d “bed alms.’ Pope 


Rape of the Leok, ¥. (171%, 

Limbo Fatuorum or the “ Fools’ Para- 
dise,' for idiots, madmen, and othars: 
who are not responsible for their sine, 
but yet have done nothing worthy 
salvation. Milton says, from the exth 
fly to the Paradise of Fools 

and vain... the fruits 





LINGO. 


, in O'Keefe’ - 
Lingo, aa 8 comedy yreeable 
Tim), confidential 


ark ta the brothers Ch 

clerk to the brothers Cheeryble. A kind- 
hearted old bachelor, fossilized in ideas, 
but most kind-hearted, and devoted to 
his masters almost to idolatry, He is 
are ape te to a blind black bird called 

ick," which he keeps in a large cage. 
The bird has lost its voice from old age; 
but, in Tim's opinion, there is no equal 
to it in the whole world, 
marries Miss La Creevy, a miniature- 


painter 
Pancteal a the ovunting-h Bs periornes) 
the single | uel a ~ articles 


pens, Ink, roler, seallng-eaa, walers,... Tim's bat, ‘s 


Suore 
waier.— Dickens, Victolas Nickleby, rorvil. (Lae) 


Linklater (Zauriz), yeoman of the 
king's kitchen, <A friend to Ritchie 


Moniplies.—Sir W. Scott, Fortunes of 


Nigel (time, James 1.), 


Linne (The Her of), a great spend- 
thrift, who sold his estates to John-o'-the- 
Scales, his steward, reserving for himeelf 
only a “poor and lonesome lodge in a 
lonely glen." Here he found a rope, with 
& running nonse, and put it round his 
peck, with the intention of hanging him- 
eclf. The weight of his body broke 
the rope, and he fell tothe ground. He 
now found two chests of gold and one of 
silver, with this inscription: “ Once 
more, my son, | set thee clear. Amend 
thy life, or a rope must end it.” The heir 
of Linne now went to the steward for the 
loan of forty pence, which was denied 
him. One of the guests said, “ Why 
John, you ought to lend it, for you | 
the estates cheap enough.” “Cheap! 
say you. Why, be shall have them back 
for a hundred marks leas than the money 
I gave for them.” “Done!” said the 
her of Linne; and counted out the 
money. Thus he recovered his estates, 
and made the kind puest his forester.— 
Percy, Aelijues, 11. ii. 5. 

Lion (4), emblem of the tribe of 
Judah, In the old church at Totnes is a 
stone pulpit divided into compartments 
containing shields, decorated with the 
several emblems of the Jewish tribes, of 
which this is one. 


Jodah }) a lion's whelp* ... be courbed as o len, 
end as an old Wun; dal] pos him op +/—en, 
win i 


Lion (Tie), evmbol of ambition. When 
Danté began the ascent of fame, he was 





867 


The old clerk | 





——= 


LION ATTENDING ON MAN. 


met first by a eines (eee), aed Wee 
by a lion (ambition), which tried to stop 
. er progress. 
A lion come 
Danté, sett, L (2200). 

Jion (The), Henry duke of Bavaria 
and Saxony, son of Henry “the Proud™ 
(1129-1195), 


Louis VIII, of France, born under the 
sign Leo (1187, 1223-1226). 
=. a of ne chose o 
(*, 1165-1214). ‘ 


Inon (The Golden), emblem of ancient 
ea The bear was that of ancient 
Perel. 


ion (The Valiant), Alep Arslan, son 
of Togrul eg the Perso-Turkish mon- 
arch (*, 1063-1072). 

Lion Attending on Man. 

Una was attended by a lion. Spenser 
eaves that Una was secking St. 
and as she sat to rest herself, o lion 
rushed suddenly owt of a thicket, with 
gaping mouth and lashing tail ; but as it 
drew near, it was awe-struck, licked her 
feet and hands, and followed ber like a 
dog. Sansloy slew the faithful beast.— 
Fuery Queen, 1. iii, 42 (1590). 

*,” This is an allegory of the Refor- 
mation. The “lion” means a aps 
and “‘Una™ means truth or the reform 
religion. England (the lion) waited on 
truth or the Reformation. ‘“‘Sanaloy" 
means queen Mary or false faith, which 
killed the lion, or separated England 
from truth (or the true faith). It might 
seem to some that Sanafoy should have 
been substituted for Sansloy; but this 
could not be, because Sansfoy had been 
slain already. 

Sir Ewain de Gallis or [eain de Galles 
was attended by a lion, which, in grati- 
tude to the knight, who had delivered it 
from a serpent, ever after became his 
faithful servant, approaching the knight 
with tears, and rising on its hind feet. . 

Sir Geoffrey de Latuur waa aided by 
a lion against the Baracens; but the 
faithful brute was drowned in attemptin 
to follow the vessel in which the kni; 
had embarked on his departure from the 
Holy Land. 

St, Jerome ia represented as attended 
by a lion, (See Anppocus, p. 87.) 





LIRIS. 


Death of the Children of Touran and The 
Death of the Children of Usnach. (Bee 
FIonNuaLa.)—O'Flanagan, Transactions 
of the Gaelic Society, i. 

*,* Lir fx) father of Fionnuala. 
On the death of Fingula (the mother of 
his daughter), he married the wicked 
Aoife, who, through spite, transformed 
the children of Lir into swans, doomed 
to float on the water for centuries, till 
they hear the first mass-bell ring. Tom 
Moore has versified this legend. 


Siient, O Moyte, be the roar of thy water; 
breezes, your chain of reposs— 


tale of woes 

(°’ Song of Fionnuala,” 1814). 

Liris, a proud but lovely daughter of 
the race of man, beloved by Rubi, first 
of the angel host. Her passion was the 
love of knowledge, and she was capti- 
wated by all her angel lover told her of 
heaven and the works of God. At last 
she requested Rubi to ap before her 
in all hia glory, and, as she fell into his 
embrace, was burnt to ashes by the rays 
which issued from him.—T. Moore, Loves 
of the Angels, ii. (1822). 


Lisa, an innkeeper’s daughter, who 
wishes to marry Elvi’no a wealthy far- 
mer; but Elvino is in love with Ami’na. 
Suspicious circumstances make Elvino 
renounce his true love and promise 
marriage to Lisa; but the suspicion is 
shown to be causeless, and Lisa is dis- 
covered to be the paramour of another. 
So Elvino returns to his first love, and Lisa 
is left to Alessio, with whom she had been 
living previously.—Bellini’s opera, 
Sonnernbula (1831). 


Lis’boa or Lisbo’a, Lisbon. 


Lisette. Les Infidélités de Lisette and 
Les Gucur are the two songs which, in 
1813, veined for Beranyer admission to 
the ‘‘Caveau,"a club of Paris, established 
in 1729 and broken up in 1749, but re- 
established in 1806 and finally closed in 
1817. 

Les Infidélités supposes that Béranger 
loved Lisette, who bestowed her favours 
on sundry admirers; and Béranger, at 
each new proof of intidelity, ‘‘ drowned 
his sorrow in the bowl.” 

Lisette, ma Lisette, 
Tu nie ns trompe toujours 3 
Mals vive la grisette! 
Je veux, Lisette, 
Bore & nus amwours. 
Les Infdblités de Lheotte. 

Lismaha’go (Captain), a super- 
anniated officer on half-pay, who marries 
Miss Tabitha LBrau.ble fur the sake of 


559 





LITTLE CORPORAL. 


her £4000. He is a hard-featured, for- 
bidding Scotchman, singular in dress, 
eccentric in manners, _ self-conceited, 
pedantic, disputatious, and rude. Though 
most tenacious in argument, he can yield 
to Miss Tabitha, whom he wishes to con- 
ciliate. Lis reminds one of don 
Quixote, but is sufficiently unlike to y 
original.—T. Smollett, Zhe Expedition 
Humphry Clinker (1771). 


Lissardo, valet to don Felix. He 
is a conceited high-life-below-stuirs fop, 
who makes love to Inis and Flora.—Mrs. 
Centlivre, The Wonder (1718). 

Lee Lewes (1740-1808)  Limardo “ in the style of 
his puster (Woedward), and most divertingly.— 

LK~ Oo Mre. Biddons. 

Lis’uarte (The Exploits and Adven- 
tures of), part of the series of Le Roman 
des omans, or that pertaining to 
‘6 Am’adis of Gaul.” This part was 
added by Juan Diaz. 


Literary Forgers. (See Forces.) 


Literature (Father of Modern French), 
Claude de Seyssel (1450-1520). 


Literature (Father of German), Gott- 
hold Ephraim Lessing (1729-1781). 


Littimer, the painfully irreproach- 
able valet of Steerforth; in whose 
presence David Copperfield feels always 
most uncomfortably small. Though as 
a valet he is propriety in Sunday best, he 
is nevertheless cunning and deceitful. 
Steerforth, tired of ‘Little Em'ly,” 
wishes to marry her to Littimer; but 
from this lot she is rescued, and migrates 
to Australia.—C. Dickens, David - 
field (1849). 

Little (7homas). Thomas Moore pub- 
lished, in 1808, a volume of amatory 
poems under this num de plume. The 
preface is signed J. H. H. H. 

"Tis Little !—young Catullus of his day, 
As sweet but as immoral as bis lay. 

Byron, Snylish Bards and Scotch 

Little Britain, Brittany ; also called 
Armorica, and in Arthurian romance 
Benwicke or Benwick. 

*,* There is a part of London called 
‘Little Britain.” It lies between Christ's 
Hospital (the Blue-coat School) and 
Aldersgate Street. It was here that Mr. 
Jagyers had his chambers. (See Jac- 
Gkks, p. 486.) 


Little Corporal (The). Genera] 
Bonaparte was so called after the battle 
of Lodi in 1796, from his youthful age 
and low stature. 











LITTLEJOHN. 


Charles Perrault (1697). Ludwig Tieck 
reproduced the same tale in his Volks- 
mirchen (Popular Stories), in 1795, under 
the German title Leben und Tod des 
Aleinen FRibthhappehen, A little girl 
takes a present to her grandmother; but 
a wolf has assumed the place of the old 
woman, and, when the child gets into bed, 
)derours her. The brothers Grimm have 
;reproduced this tale in German. In the 
Swedish version, Red Riding-Hood is a 
young woman, who takes refuge in a 
tree, the wolf gnaws the tree, and the 
lover arrives just in time to see his 
mistress devoured by the monster, 

Littlejohn (/ailice), a magistrate at 
Fairport.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Antiquary 
(time, George IIT.) 


Live to Please. . . Dr. Johnson, in 
the prologue spoken by Garrick at the 
opening of Drury Lane in 1747, says: 


The dren's lag the dius patrons give, 
For we that live to plemee, oroet plans bo les, 


Livy (The Russian), Nicholas Mi- 
chaelovitch Karamizin (1765-1826). 

Livy of France, Juan de Mariana 
(1537-1624), 

Livy of Portugal, Jodo de Barros 
(1496-1570). 

Lizard Islands, fabulous islands, 
where dameels, outeast from the reat of 
the world, find a home and welcome,— 
Torquemada, Garden of Flowers, 

Lizard Point (Comwall), a corrup- 
tion of Lasur's Point, beg a place of 
retirement for lazars or lepers. 





Lla’ian, the unwed mother of prince 
Hoel, Tis father was prince Hoel, the 


illegitimate aon of king Owen of North | 


Wales, Hoel the father was slain in battle 
by his half-brother David, successor to 
the throne ; and Llaian, with her young 
eon. also called Hoel, accompanied prince 
Madoc to <America.—Southey, Madoc 
(1805). 

Llewel'lyn, son of Yorwerth, and 
rrandsin of Gowen king of North W ales. 
Ficrenti was the eldest son, but was 
set aside becuse he had a bleniish in the 
face, and hin half-brother David was 
king, Dtavid began his reign by killing 


or banishing all the family of his father 
Wl oonght disturb his suecession, 
Amerge-t these he killed was Yorwerth, 
in censeience of which Llewellyn re- 
solved te avence his faulwr's death ; and 
bis hatred navainst his uncle was op- 


buunided.—Svuthey, Madoc (1806). 


| cashire Manufac 








LOCAL DESIGNATIONS, ETA. 
Lloyd with an ‘L." 


One morning, a Welsh coach-maker cume with bike bill 
to my Jord [the earl of Hrent/ard “Fou aay EY 
think. Mr. Lloyd 1“ “At your ship's service, my 
Jord.” “What! Lloyd with an * Lt" It waewith an “LL 

"In pour part of the world [ have beard that Lop and 
Filoyd are | rFuenyimeun; ia it eo F* a Se 





Very often, indeed, my lord,” waa the “You 
pay that you spell your name with in * Lt" * my 
lord” “That, my Liev, lb a litte nine or iam 
paylng try deble 2 


Phabetically, ard ie four oe five years 
Pp 
5. Foote, Pie Lame Lover, 

Lioyd'’s Books, two enormous 
ledger-looking volumes, raised on deska 
at nght and left of the entrance to Lloyd's 
Rooms, These books give the principal 
arrivals, and all losses er wreck, fire, or 
other accident at sen. The entries are 
written in a fine, bold, Roman hand, 
legible to all readers. 

»” Lloyd's List is a London penodical, 
in which the shipping news received at 
Lloyd's Rooms is regularly published. 


L. N. R., initialism of Mra. Ranyard, 
nuthoress of Zhe Book and Jta Story, The 
Aissiny Link, etc. Died 1879, 


Loathiy Lad (The), a hideous 
creature, whom sir Tease" ain marries, aud 
whe immediately becomes a most bean- 
tiful woman.—The Marriaye of Sir 
trawain (a ballad). 


The walla... were dothed with grim old tapestry, 
representing the menvwrahle atury of air Gawaln's wedding 
. With the Loathly Lady,—élr W, Beott 


Loba'ba, one of the sorcerers in 
the caverns of Dom-Daniel, ‘‘ under the 
roots of the ocenn.” These spirits were 
destined to be destroyed by one of the race 
of Hodeirah, and, therefure, they perse- 
cuted the whole of that roce even to death. 
Tal’aba, however, eseaped their malice, 
and became their destroyer, Okba tried 
to kill him, but foiled. Abdaldar was 
next sent against him, and would have 


| #truock the lad in prayer, but was himself 


killed by a simoom.  Lobiba was the 
third envoy sent to compnss his death. 
He assumed the guise of an old merchant, 
and beguiled the young man into the 


| wilderness, where he roused up a furions 
| whirlwind ; 


but Talabo was saved, and 
Luliabon himself fell a victim to the storm 


| which be had rmised.Southey, Zialaba 
: the Destroyer (1i97). 


Local Designations and Lan. 
tures, etc, 

Aan» | Achten-ander-Lyoe], fetes, 

ferns | Relies) Sy or fraifers, 

hw pis | Bolton, downs (La pote, 

ART, muafers 

RAT, epee i 

CHEADLE, singers a peculiar con) 





oe oe. 





tones. He was also an excellent scald 
or bard, like Ossian. Falling into the 
hands of his enemies, he was cast into 
jail, and devoured by serpents. 


Lodging. ‘‘My lodging is or the 
cold ereand-"—W, B. Rhodes, Bombastes 
Purioso (1790). 

Lodois'ka [4 syl.), a beautiful Polish 

rinceas, in love with count Floreski. 
Bie is the daughter of prince Lupanaki, 
who places her under the protection of a 


friend (baron Lovinski) during a war be- | 


tween the Poles and Tartars. Here her 
lover finds her a prisoner at large; but 
the baron seeks to poison him. At this 
crisis, the Tartars arrive and invade the 
eastle, The baron is killed, the lady 
released, and all ends bappily.—J. F. 
Kemble, Lodviska (a melodrume). 


Lodo'na, a nymph, fond of the 
chase. Une day, Pan saw her, and tried 
to catch her: but she fled, and implored 
Cynthia to save her. 
beard, and she was instantly converted 
inte “a silver stream, which ever keepa 
its virgin coolness.” Lodona is an af- 
fluent of the Thames.—Pope, Windsor 
Forest (1713). 


GLodore (2 sy/.), a cataract of the 
Tarn, in France, rendered famous for 
Southey's piece of word-painting called 
The Cataract of Leadore (1820), This 
and Edgar Poe's Fells are the best pieces 
of word-painting in the language, at least 
of a similar length. 


Lodovi'co, kinsman to Brabantio 
the father of Desdemona,—Shakeapeare, 
Othello (1611). 


Lodovico and Piso 
ulls.—Keagmont and Fletcher, 
Captain (LOL). 


two cowardly 


The 


Todowick, the name assumed by the 
duke of Vienna, when he retired for a 
while from State affairs, and dressed as 
a friar, to watch the carrying out of a 
law recently enforced against prostitu- 
tion.--Shakespeare, Weasure for Measure 
(1603). 


Loe'gria (4 sy/.), England, the king- 
dom of Loris or Locrine, eldest son of 
Brute the mythical king of Britain, 

Thor Cambria | ales] tu ber right that weld herself 
remlure, 


4€od raier than to lee Listeria, lovks for more 
MM, Drayiin, Pulpoldion, iv. (MELE). 


~ LODGING. 568 


century), famous for his wars and vic- | 


Her prayer wag | 








LOHENGRIN. 


Detéheviatushen 
tout le hoymuine de [care 
Qui jadia fut la terre &s ogres 
It par cette lance. 
Chrétien de Troyes, Parciea’ (270) 
Lofty, a detestable prig, always 
boasting of his intimacy with people of 
uality.—Goldsmith, The Good-naturea 

an (1767). 

Lofty (Sir Thomas), a caricature of lord 
Meleombe., Sir Thomas is a man utterly 
destitute of all capacity, yet sete himsclf 
up for a Mecenas, and is well sponged 
by needy secribblers, who ply him with 





fulsome dedications,—Samuel Foote, Tho - 


Patron. 


Log (Xing), a roi faineant. The frogs 
prayed to Jove to send them a king, and 
the god threw a log into the pool, the 
splash of which terribly alarmed them 
for a time; but they soon learnt to de- 
epise a monarch who allowed them to 
jump upon its back, and never resented 
their familinrities, The cronkers com- 
plained to Jove for sending them so 
worthless a king, and prayed him to 
send one more active and imperious; so 
he sent them mo stork, which devoured 
them.—.disop's Fables. 

Logistil'la, a good fairy, sister of 
Avwi'na the sorceress. She taught Rag- 
gie’ro (3 syi.) to manage the hippogriff, 
and gave Astolphoa magic book and horn. 
Logistilla is human reason personified.— 
Anosto, Uriando Fwrioso (1516). 


Logothete (Tie), or chaivellor of 
the Grecian empire.—Sir W. Scott, Count 
Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 

Logres (2 syi.). England is so called 
from Logris or Locrine, eldest son of the 
mythical king Brote, 

» « « le propane de Logres, 
Qual Jacliis fat la terre & ogres. 
Chintiien de Troyes, Porsiend (1270) 

Logria, England. (See Loarrs.) 


Logris or Locris, same as Locrin or 
Locrine, eldest son of Brute the mythical 
king of Britain. 

Logris, England. 

Tam banked oot of the country of 


fiat ja to soy, oul of the country of Ex 
Malory, Mistery of Prince Arthor, OL 19 (10). 


Lohengrin, *‘ Knight of the Swan,” 
son of Parzival, He came to Drabante 
in o ship drawn by a swan, and having 
liberated the duchess Elsen, who was a 
captive, he married her, but declined to 
reveal his name. Not long after his 
marriage, he went against the Hune 


a for ever; 
—&r T. 





LONGIOS. 565 








Ie Shiffnal (Salon) St. Andrew's 
Church are these tablets : 

WILtiamM WAKLEY (124), baptized at 
Tdeall, otherwise Shiffnal, May 1, 1590; 
and was buried at Adbaston, November 28, 
1714. He lived in the reign of eight 


Many Yares 27). wife of Joseph 
Yates of ommon Shiffnal, was 
born 1649, ead buried August 7, 1776. 
She walked to London just after the fire 
in 1666, was hearty and strong at 120 
years, and married, at 92 years of age, 

er third husband. 


Longius, the name of the Roman 
soldier who pierced the crucified Saviour 
with a spear. The spear came into the 

ion of Joseph of Arimathea.—Sir 
r al History of Prince Arthur, i. 41 
1470 


Longomonta'’nus (Christian), of 
Jutland, a Danish astronomer (1562- 
1647). 

wr Pies yyoU Newmans nd 
your barony’ of crirmsaney with astrology }_W. Coo. 
Greve, Love for Love, iv. (if). 

Lonna, that is, Colonna, the most 
southern point of Attica, called ‘‘Su- 
nium's marbled steep.” Illere once stood 
a temple to Minerva, called by Falconer, 
in he Shipwreck, ‘‘ Tritonia’s sacred 
fane.” The ship Britannia struck 
against ‘the cape's projecting verge,” 
and was wrecked. 


Yes, at the dead of t, hy Lonna’s steep, 
The seaman’s cry was along the deep. 
Campbell, The Pleasures of i Hope, i. (1790). 


Loose-Coat Field. The battle of 
Stamford (1470) was so called, because the 
men led by lord Wells, being attacked by 
the Yorkists, threw off their coats, that 
they miyht tlee the faster. 

Cast off their country’s cuata, t ‘o haste thelr speed 
Which * Loose-Cuat Field ” i alod ven tote dag 
Drayton, Polyotbion, xxil. ». 

Lo’pe de Vega (Flix), a Spanish 
poet, born at Madrid. He was one of 
those who came in the famous “* Armada” 
to invade Enyland. Lope (2 sy/.) wrote 
altogether 1800 tragedies, comedies, 
dramas, or religious pieces called autos 
sacrumentales (15t02-1655). 

Her memory wasa mine. Sbe knew by heart 
Al Calderun and gre iter part of Lopé, 
hyrun, Don Juan, 1 12 (1819), 

Lopez, the ‘Spanish curate."— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, The Spanish 
Curate (1622). 


Tapez (Dun), a Portuguese nobleman, 
the father of dun Felix. and donna 


LOREDANO. 


Isabella.—Mrs. Centlivre, Zhe Wonder 
(1714). 


Lorbrul’grud, the capital of Brob- 
dingnag. The ord is humorously said 
mean ‘Pride of the Universe.”"— 
Swift Gulliver's Travels (“ Voyage to 
Brobdingnag,” 1726). 


Lord, a hunchback. (Greek, lordos, 


** crooked.”’) 


Lord Peter. The pope is so called in 
Dr. Arbuthnot's His of John Bull, 
Swift, in his Zale of a Tub, introduces the 
three brothers Peter, John, and Martin, 
meaning the pope, Calvin, and Luther. . 


Lord Strutt. Charles II. of Spain 
is so called by Dr. Arb in his 
History of John Bull (1712). 

one most 


Lord Thomas and Annet bad 
a lovers’ quarrel; whereupon, lord 
Thomas, in his temper, went and offered 
marriage to the nut-brown maid who hi had 
houses and lands. On the weddi 
Annet went to the church, an Tord 
Thomas gave her a rose, but the nut- 
brown maid killed her with a “ bodkin 
from her hcad-year.” Lord Thomas, see- 
ing Annet fall, plunged his dagger into 
the heart of the murderess, and then 
stabbed himself. Over the graves of lord 
Thomas and the fair Annet grew ‘“‘a 
bonny briar, and by this ye may ken that 
they were lovers dear.” In some ver- 
sions of this story Annet is called 
‘*Elinor.”"—Percy, Heliques, etc., INI. iii. 


Lord of Crasy Castle, John Hall 
Stevenson, author of Crazy Tales (in 
verse). J. H. Stevenson lived at Skelton 
Castle, which was nicknamed ‘Crazy 
Castle” (1718-1789). 


Lord of the Isles, Donald of Islay, 
who in 1346 reduced the Hebridés under 
his sway. The title of “lord of the 
Isles" had been borne by others for 
centuries before, was borne by Steven- 
son's successors, and is now one of the 
titles of the prince of Wales. 

Sir W. Scott has a metrical ro 
entitled Zhe Lurd of the Isles (1815). 


Loredani ((fiacomo), interpreter of 
king Richard I.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Tulisman (time, Richard I.). 


Loreda’no eer A 


a co rnatien 
patrician, and Council of 





LOT. 867 





ef Lot, but this is a mistake, Elain was 
Asthor’s sister by the aame mother, and 
was the wife of sir Nentres of Carlot. 
Mordred was the son of Morgawee by 
her brother Arthur, and consequently 
Gawain, Agravain, Gaheris, and Garet 
were his half-brothers. 


Lot, ay of Orkney, According to 
Tennyson, king Lot's wife was Hellicent, 
daughter of (rorloia lord of Tintag’il 
Castle, in Cornwall, and Lot was the father 
of Gaw'ain (2 sy/.) and Modred. This 
account differs entirely from the History 
of Prince Arthur, by sir T. Malory, 

ere the wife of Lot ts called Margawse 
or Morgawse (Arthur's sister), Geoffrey 
of Monmouth, on the other hand, calls 
her Anne (Arthor’s sister). The sons of 
Let, according to the History, were 
Gawain, Agravain, Gaheris, and Gareth ; 
Modred or Mordred being the offapring of 
Morgawze and Arthur. This ignonle 
birth the Hisfory assigns as the reason of 
Mordred's hatred to king Arthur, his adul- 
terous father and uncle. Lot was anb- 
dued by king Arthur, fighting on behalf 
of Leodogran or Leodogrance king of 
Cam’eliard.—See Tennyson, Coming of 
Arthur. 


Lot’s Wife, Wahela, who was con- 
federate with the men of Sodom, and 
gave them notice when any straner came 
to lodge in the house. Her sign was 
smoke by day and fire by night. Lot's 


wife was turned into a pillar of salt.— | 


Jallalo'ddin, A! Z2ma%h, 


Lotha'rio, a noble cavalier of Flo- | 


rence, the friend of Anselmo. Anselmo 
induced him to put the fidelity of his 
wife Camilla to the test, that he might 
rejoice in her incorruptible virtue; but 
Camilla was not tral-proof, and eloped 
with Lothario, Anselmo then died of 
ef, Lothario was slain in battle, and 
amilla died in a convent.—ervantes, 
Dom Quirote, I. iv. 5, 6 (*' Fatal Curiosity,” 
1605). 


Lothario, a young Genoese nobleman, 
** haughty, yallant, gay, and pertidious,” 
He sedideest Calista, dauchter of Seil'to 
(3 syl.) a Genoese nobleman, and was 
killed in a duel by Altamont the hueluand, 
This is the “yay Lotharie,” which haa 
become a househel!l worl for a libertine 
and male coquctte.—N. Nowe, Dike Fair 
Penitent (V7). 


Ie this the haaghiy, elant, gay LotherloT 
Koee, Poo Pode Penifend. 








LOUIS Ix. 


Massinger’s Fatal Dowry, in which Lo- 
thario is called “ Novall, Junior.” 

Lothian (Scotland). So named from 
Llew, second son of Arthur; also called 
Lotus and Lothus. Arthur's eldest som 
was Urian, and his youngest Arawn. 

*,." In some legends, Lothian ia made 
the father of Modred or Medraut, leader 
of the rebellious army which fought at 
Camlan, A.p. 537, in which Arthur re- 
ceived his death-wound ; but in Malory's 
collection, called The History of Prince 
Arthur, Modred is called the 50” of 
vad ag by his own sister the wife of king 

t. 





Lotte (2 syl.), a young woman of 
strong affection and domestic winning 
ways, the wife of Albert a young German 
farmer. Werther loved Lotte when she 
was only betrothed to Albert, and con- 
tinued to love her after she became a- 
young wife. His mewling and poling 
after this “forbidden fruit,” which ter- 
minates in suicide, make up the sum and 
substance of the tale, which is told in 
the form of letters addressed to divers 
persons.—Goethe, Sorrows of Werther 
(1774). 

‘(Lotte was Charlotte Buff, who 


| married Kestner, Goethe's friend, the 


** Albert" of the novel. Goethe was in 
love with Charlotte TBoff, and her mar- 
riage with Keatner soured the temper of 
his over-sensitive mind, 


Lotus-Eaters or LotopA'agi, a people 


| who ate of the lotus tree, the effect of 


which was to make them forget ‘heir 
fnends and homes, and to lose all desire 
of returning to their native land, The 
lotus-eater only cares to live in ense, 
luxury, and idleness.—Homer, Odyssey, 
x1, 

*,* Tennyson has a poet called The 
Tutus-Futers, a set of islanders who live 
in a dreamy idleness, weary of life, and 
regardless of all its stirring events. 


Louis, duc d'Orlcana.—Sir W. Scott, 


| Quentin Durward (time, Edward 1V.). 


Louis de Bourbon, the prince- 
bishop of Litge Nig Pak W.. Scott, 
Quentin Durrard (time, Edward IV.). 

Louis CX. The sum of the figures 
which designate the birth-date of this 
king will give bis litular number. Thos, 
be was born in 1215, the sum of which 
fizurea is 9. This is true of several other 
kings. The discovery might form on 


| oeensional diversion on a doll e\ening, 
@.° The Fuir Penilent is taken from | 


(fre lovis ALV. and AVIIT.) 





enw 


LOUISE. 


Sie W. Scott, Fair Maid of Perth (time, 
Henry IV.). 


Louise (de Lascours], wife of 
Ralph captain of the Uran’a, and mo- 
ther of Martha (afterwards called Or- 
parte). Louise de Lascours sailed with 

er infant daughter and her husband in 
the Urania. Louise and the captain 
were drowned by the breaking up of an 
iceberg 5 but Martha was rescued by some 
wild Indians, who brought her up, and 
called her name Orgarita (‘‘ withered 
wheat"”).—E. Stirling, Orphan of the 
Frozen Sea (1856). 


Loupgarou, leader of the army of 
iants in alliance with the Dipsodes 
é syl.). As he threatened to make 
mincemeat of Pantag’ruel, the prince 

ve him a kick which overthrew him, 
then, lifting him up by his ankles, he 
used him as a quarter-staff. Having 
killed all the giants in the hostile army, 
Pantagruel flung the body of Loungarou 
en the ground, and, by so doing, crushed 
a tom-cat, a tabby, a duck, and a 
brindled goose.—Kabelais, Pantayruel, ii. 
29 (1533). 

Louponheight ( The young laird of), 
at the bull at Middlemas.—Sir W. Scott, 
itp Surgeon's Dauyhter (time, George 


Lourdis, an idiotic scholar of Sor- 
bonne. 


De la Sorbonne un Docteur amoureuz 

Disoit ung Jour & an dame rebelle : 

** Je ne puls rien meriter de vous, belle” . . 

Arguo sic: °' Si magizster Lourdis 

De sa Catin meriter ne peut rien; 

Ergo ne peut meriter paradia, 

Car, pour le moins, paradis la vaut blen.” 

Marot, Zpigrem, 
When Doctor Lourdis cried, In humble spirit, 
The hand of Kath'rine he could never nietit, 
** Then heaven to thee,” said Kate, “can ne'er be given, 
For less my worth, you must allow, than heaven.” 
Lourie (Zum), fhe innkeeper at 

Marchthorn.—Sir W. Scott, St. Avunan's 


Well (time, George LIT.). 


Louvre (The), a corruption of lupara, 
as it is called in old title-deeds. Da- 
gobert built here a hunting-box, the 
nucleus of the present pile of buildings. 


Louvre of St. Petersburg (Tie), 


the Ilermitaye, an imperial museum. 


Love, a drama by S. Knowles (1840). 
The countess Catherine is taught by a 
serf named Iluon who is her secretary, 
and fails in love with him ; but her pride 
struggles agninst such an unequal match. 
The duke, her father, heamng of his 
daughter's love, commands Huon, on pain 








-LOVE-CHASE. 


of death, to marry Catherine a freed serf. 
He refuses ; but the countess herself bids 
him obey. He plights his troth to Ca- 
therine, supposing it to be U atherine the 
quondam serf, rushes to the wars, obtains 
reat honours, becomes a prince, and then 
earns that the Catherine he has wed is the 
duke’s daughter. 


Love, or rather affection, according to 
Plato, is disposed in the liver. 
Within, some Love hath his habitation ; 
Not Cupid's olf, but Cupid's better brother ; 
Por Cupid's self dwells with a lower nation, 
But this, more sure, much chaster than the other. 
Ph. Fletcher, The Purple sland (1633). 
Love. ‘' Man's love is of man’s life 
a thing apart; ‘tis woman's whole exist- 
ence.”—Byron, Don Juan, i. 194 (1819). 


Love. 


It ts better to have loved and lost, 
Than never to have loved ut all, 
Tennyson, /n Memoriam, xxi, 


Thomas Moore, in his Jrish Melodies, 


“expresses an opposite opinion: 


Better far to be 
In endless darkness lying, 
Than be in light and see 
That light for ever flying. 
Ail that’s Bright must Fad 
Love. All for Love or the World Well 
Lost, a tragedy by Dryden, on the same 
subject as Shakespeare's Antony and 
Cleopatra (1679). 


Love &-la-Mode, by C. Macklin 
(1779). The ‘‘ love a-/a-raode” is that of 
fortune-hunters. Charlotte Goodchild is 
courted by a Scotchman ‘of ponderous 
descent,” an Italian Jew broker of great 
fortune, and an Irishman in the Prussian 
army. It is given out that Charlotte has 
lost her money through the bankruptcy 
of sir Theodore Goodchild, her guardian. 
Upon this, the a@-lu-moede suitors with- 
draw, and leave sir Callaghan O’Bral- 
laghan, the true lover, master of the 
situation. The tale about the bankruptcy 
is of course a mere myth. 


Love cannot Die. 
They sin who tell us Love can die. 
With life all other passions fly ... 
They perish where they have thelr birth: 
But Love is indestructib'e. 
Its huly flame for ever burneth; 
henven it came, to heaven returneth . 

It soweth here in tuil and care; 

But the harvest-time of Love is thera 

Southey, Curse af Achama, x. 10 (1800) 


Love-Chase (7he), a drama by S. 
Knowles (1837). Three lovers chased 
three beloved ones with a view to mar- 
riage. (1) Waller loves Lydia, lady’s- 
maid to Widow Green, but 1n reality the 
sister of Trueworth. She quitted home 





LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST. 


the love of his father to his mother. 
The love of Tristram and Ysold is at- 
tributed to their drinking on their 
journey a love-potion designed for king 

ark, the intended husband of the fair 
princess. , 

An Irish superstition is that if a lover 
will run a hair of the object beloved 
through the fleshy part of a dead man’s 
leg, e person from whom the hair was 

en will go mad with love. 

We are told that Charlemagne was be- 
witched by a ring, and that he followed 
any one who possessed this ring as a 
needle follows a loadstone (see p. 177). 

*,* To do justice to this subject would 
require several pages, and all can be 
done here is to give a few brief hints and 
examples. 


Love’s Labour’s Lost. Ferdinand 
king of Navarre, with three lords named 
Biron, Dumain, and Longaville, agreed to 
spend three years in study, during which 
time no woman was to approach the 
court. Scarcely had they signed the 
compact, when the princess of France, 
attended by Rosaline, Maria, and Katha- 
rine, besought an interview respecting 
certain debts said to be due from the 
king of France to the king of Navarre. 
The four gentlemen fell in love with the 
four ladies: the king with the princess, 
Biron with Rouwaline, Longaville with 
Maria, and Dumain with Katharine. In 
order to carry their suits, the four gentle- 
men, disguised as Muscovites, presented 
themselves before the ladies; but the 
ladics, being warned of the masquerade, 
disguised themselves also, so that the 
gentlemen in every case addressed the 
wrong lady. However, it was at length 
arranyved that the suits should be de- 
ferred for twelve months and a day ; and 
if, at the expiration of that time, they 
remained of the same mind, the matter 
should be taken into serious considera- 
tion. —Shakespeare, Love's Labour's Lost 
(1594). 


Loves of the Angels, the stories 
of three angels, in verse, by T. Moore 
(1822). The stories are founded on the 
Fastern tale of //urut and Marit, and the 
rabbinical fictions of the loves of Uzziel 
and Shamchazai. 

1. The first angel fell in love with Lea, 
whom he saw bathiny. She returned love 
for love, but his love was carnal, hers 
heavenly. He loved the woman, she 
luved the angel. One day, the angel told 
ber the spell-word which opens the gates 





871 LOVEL. 





ees RE 8 SE oe RD 


of heaven. She pronounced it, and rese 
through the air into paradise, while the 
angel became imbruted, being no longer 
an angel of light, but ‘‘of the earth, 
earthy.” 

2. The second angel was Rubi, one of 
the seraphs. He fell in love with Liri 
who asked him to come in all his celesti 

lory. He did so; and she, rushing into 

is arms, was burnt to death; but the 
kiss she gave him became a brand on his 
face for ever. 

8. The third angel was Zaraph, who 
loved Nama, It was Nama's desire to 
love without control, and to love holily ; 
but as she fixed her love on a creature, 
and not on the Creator, both she and 
Zaraph were doomed to live among the 
things that perish, till this mortal is 
swallowed up of immortality, when Nama 
and Zaraph will be admitted into the 
realms of everlasting love. 


Love’s White Star, the planet 
Venus, which is silvery white. 

Til every daisy slept. and Love's white star 
Beamed thro’ the thickened cedar in the dusk. 
Tennyson, Tas Gardener's Daughter. 

Loved. Who ever loved that lovea 
not at first sight ?—Marlowe, Hero and 
Leander (1687). 

Lovegold, the miser, an old man of 
60, who wants to marry Mariana, his 
son's sweetheart. In order to divert him 
from this folly, Mariana pretends to be 
very extravagant, and orders a necklace 
and ear-rings for £3000, a petticoat and 
gown from a fabric £12 yard, and besets 
the house with duns. vegold gives 
£2000 to be let off the bargain, and 
Mariana marries the son.—A. Fielding, 
The Miser (a réchaufé of L’Avare, by 
Molitre). 

John Emery [1777-1822] made his frst appearance at 
Corent Garden Theatre in the year 1708, in very opposite 
charaters, " Frank Uskland” in 4 Cure for the Heart- 
ache [by Morton} and in‘ Lovegold.” In both which 
parts he obtained great applause. — Memoir (1823). 

Love'’good (2 sy/.), uncle to Valen- 
tine the gallant who will not be per- 
guaded to kecp his estate.—Beaumont 
and Fletcher, Wit without Moncey (1639). 


Lovel, once the of lord Beau-° 
fort, in love with lady Frances; but he 
concealed his love because young Beau- 
fort ‘‘cast his affections first upon the 
lady."—Murphy, The Citizen (1767). 

Lovel (Lord), the bridegroom who wet 
his bride on the wedding day from play- 
ing hide-and-seck. The lady hid in an 
old oak chest, the lid of which fl] on 
her and closed with a spring-lock. Many 








LOVEMORE. 


some unkindsem chown bim by the 
rock (s called “The Poor Rock.” 
Quixete, 1. iil 2 (1606). 

Love’more (2 sy/.), a man fond of 

iety and pleasure, who sincerely leves 

is wife; but, finding his home dull, and 
that his wife makes no effort to relieve 
its monotony, seeks pleasure abroad, and 
treats his wife with cold civility and 
formal politeness. He is driven to in- 
trigue, but, being brought to see its folly, 
acknowledges his faults, and his wife re- 
solves ‘‘to try to keep him” by making 
his home more lively and agreeable. 

Afrs. Lovemore (2 syl.), wife of Mr. 
Lovemore, who finds if ‘‘she would kee 
her husband” to herself, it is not enoug 
to ‘‘bea prudent manager, careless of her 
own comforts, not much given to plea- 
sure; grave, retired, and domestic ; to 
govern her household, pay the trades- 
men’s bills, and love her husband ;” but 
to these must be added some effort to 
Poe and amuse him, and to make his 

ome bright and agreeable to him.—A. 
Murphy, The Way to Acep Him (1760). 


Lovers (Romantic). 
of distinguished men: 

ARISTOTLE and Hepvllis. 

Boccaccio and Fiaumetta (Jfaria 
daughter of Robert of Naples!. 

Burns and Highland Mary [either 
Mary Campbell or Mary Robinson). 

Byron and Teresa are F 

CaTuLuus and the lady Clodia called 
‘ Lesbia.” 

CHARLES II. of England and Barbara 
Villiers [duchess of Cleveland]; Louise 
Renée de Kerouaille (duchess of Ports- 
mouth]; and Nell Gwynne. 


tes, Don 


The favourites 


Oria’na [The | 


CuHakves VII. of France and Agnes | 
[d’ Este]. 


Sorel. 

Cin (The) and the fair Xiména, after- 
wards his wife. 

Dantfé and Beatrice [Portinari]. 

Epicurvs and Leontium., 

Francors J. and la duchesse d’Etampes 
[Afuile. d Heilly). 

GeEonGE I. and the duchess of Kendal 
{Eranjard Melrose de Schulembery}. 

GeorGE J], and Mary Howard duchess 
of Suffolk. 

Grorce TIT. and the fair quakeress 
[Hannah Lushtfoot]. 

Gronce IV. and Mrs. Mary Darby 
Rubinson called ‘* Perdita™ (1758-1800) ; 
Mrs. Fitzherbert, to whom he was pri- 
wately married in 1785; and the countess 
of Jersey. 

Goetr#He and the frau von Stein. 

Hawinctron, the poct, and Castara 


| 


578 


LOVERS, ETC. 


[Lucy Ferbert, daughter of lord Powis], 
afterwards his wife. 

Haz.uitr and Sarah Walker. 

Henri IJ. and Diane de Poitiers. 

Henri IV. and La Belle Gabrielle 
(d'Fstrces]. 

(Jane laf ond] and the fair Rosamond 

ane Cli , 

Horace and Lesbia. 

Jounson (Dr.) and Mrs. Thrale. 

LAMARTINK and Elvire the Creole girl. 

Louts XIV. and Mdlle. de la Vallitre ; 
Mde. de Montespan ; Malle. de F oueage 

LOVELACE and the divine Althéa, 
called Lucasta { Lucy Sachevereil]. 

MIRABEAU and Mde. Nehra. 

NELson and lady Hamilton. 

PERICLES and Aspasia. 

PrTRARCH and Laura [wife of Hugues 
de Sade}. 

Piato and Archianassa. 

Prior and Chloe or Cloe the cobbler’s 
wife of Linden Grove. 

Rargaen, and La Fornarina the ba- 
ker’s daughter. 

RovssEau and Julie [/a comtesse 
@ Houdetot]. 

Scarron and Mde. Maintenon, after- 
wards his wife. 

Sipney and Stella [ Penelope Devereur]. 

Spenser and Rosalind {Rose Ly 
of Kent]. 

STERNE (in his old age) and Eliza [ Mra, 
Draper). 

STESECHOROS and HimGra, 

Surrey (Henry Howard, earl of) and 
Geraldine, who married the earl of Lin- 
coln. (See GERALDINE. 

Swirr and (1) Stella Hester Johnson}, 
(2) Vanessa [ Esther Vantomrigh). 

Tasso and Leonora or Eleanora 





THEOCRITOS and Myrto. 

WALLER ard Sacharissa [lady Dorothea 
Sidney]. 

Wiittram IV. as duke of Clarence 
and Mrs. Jordan [Dora Bland}. 

Wo tsky and Mistress Winter. 

Wryart and Anna [ Anne Boleyn], parely 


platonic. 
‘Lovers Struck by Lightning, 
John Hewit and Sarah Drew of Stanton 


Harcourt, near Oxford (July 31, 1718). 
Gay gives a full description of the inci- 
dent in one of his letters. On the morn- 
ing that they obtained the consent of 
their parents to the match, they went 
together into a field to gather wild 
flowers, when a thunderstorm overtook 
them and both were killed. Pope wrote 
their epitaph. 








Linbber-Land or Cockagne (2 syl.), 


pectin pa 
ye he a y= the 
Fier mina SG Peeres 
Lucan (Sir), sometimes called “ sir 
Lucas," peryoe of king Arthur, and a 
kn the Round Table.—Sir T. 
Spina History of of Prince Arthur (* Lo- 
ean,” ; Lucas,” ii, 78; 1470). 

Li whom saw oe 
‘chteote, was Lucy Sacheverell. = 
easta or Jur canta, * chashs tight”) — 

Lucentio, son of Vicentio of Pisa, 
He marries Bianca sister of Katharina 
“the Shrew” of Padua.—Shakespeare, 
Taming of the Shrew (1504). 

Luce waiting-woman of Julia the 
lady-love 
of the play).—Shakes 
Gentlemen of Verona (1594). 


Lu'cia, daughter of Lucius (one of | 


the friends of Cato at Utica, and a mem- 
ber of the mimic senate). Lucin waa 
loved by both the sona of Cato, bat she 

ferred the more temperate Porcius to 
the vehement Marcus, Marens being slain, 
left the field open to the elder brother.— 
Addison, Cato (1718), 

Lw'cia, in The Cheats o f Scapin, Otway's 
version of Les Fuurberes de Scapin, ty 
Molitre. Lacia, in Molitre's comedy, is 
ealled * Zerbinette ;" her father Thrifty 
is called ** Argunte " her brother Octa- 
vian is “Octave;" and her sweetheart 
Leander son of) Gri pe ts called by 
Moliere “ Léandre son of Geronte™ (2 
ayl.). 

Lucia (St.). Struck om St. Lucia's 
féorn, on the-rack, in torment, moch 
perplexed and anneved. St. Lucia was 
& Virgin martyr, put to death at Syracuse 
in 404. Her fete-day is December 13, 
The ‘‘thorn” referred to is in reality the 
point of a eword, shown in all paintings 
of the saint, protruding through the nak 


I 1 dow") reeralt . T shall be struck © St Locia's 
tharn.—Cervantes, Dow (uizots, HL Wh. 3 (1605). 


Lucia di Lammermoor, called | 


by sir W. Seott “ Locy Ashton,” sister of 
lord Henry Ashton of Lammermoor, In 
vrder to retrieve the broken fortune of 
the family, lord Tlenry arranged o mar- 
riage between bis sister and lord Arthur 
Buocklaw, alias Frank Hayston laird of 
Bucklaw. Unknown to the brother 
Edyardo (Fdjar) master of Itav renswood 
(whee family bad long had a feud with 


576 





Protheus (one of the heroes | 
The Two | 


| poet says, there shot forth two enormous 





LUCI NDA. 


the Lammermoore) was betrothed to 
Lucy. wae Edgardo was absent in 

Lucia (Lucy) is made to believe 
that be is onfaithful to her, and in her 
temper she consenta to the laird of 
Bucklaw, but on the wedding night she 


stabs eee ae foes mad, =a dies.—Donizetti, 


sie W. “Boeth, The Bride apg we theen 


(time, William I1J.). 

a egy er —_ . Adrian's. She 
marries Antipholus yracuse.— Shake- 
apeare, Comedy of Errors (1593). 

Lu 'cida, the lady-love of sir Ferra- 
1). Fadi Quem, iv. 5 


Lucifer is described by Danté as a 
inicaive giant, with three faces: one red, 
cative of anger; one yellow, indicative 
and one black, indicative of 
Between his shoulders, the 





nc va oly 


wings, without plumage, “* in | aga 
like a bat's,” ith these “he fla pon 

i the air," and “Cocy'tus to its epth 
was frozen.” “At six eyes he wept," 
and at every mouth he champed a sinner, 
—Danté, fell, xxxiv. (1801). 


Lucifera (/’ride), daughter of Plute 
and Proser'pina, Her usher was Vanity. 
Her chariot was drawn six different 
beasts, on each of which was sented 
one of the queen's counsellors. The 
foremost beast was an ass, ridden by 
Idleness who resembled a monk; paired 
with the ase was a swine, on which rode 
Gluttony clad in vine leaves, Next 
came a goat, ridden bof Lechery arrayed 
in green; paired with the poat was o 
camel, on which rode Avarice im thread- 
bare coat and cobbled shoes, The next 
beast was a wolf, bestrid by Envy 
arrayed in a kirtle full of eyes; and 

ired with the wolf was a lion, bestrid 
ty Wrath in a robe all blood-stained, 
The coachman of the team was Satan, 


Lo! undernes her scornfal feel waa loin 


, Pastry Queen, 4 (1a), 

Lucinda, the daughter of Speen 
parents, engaged in miarrii Car- 
denin, a young gentleman of Snilar rank 
and ps opulence. Lucinda was, how- 
ever, promised by her father ts iat marti 
to den Fermando son of 
duke Ricardo. When wedding day 
arrived, the young lady fell into a woe 
and a letter informed don Fernando 





LUCBETIA. 
He now started for Rome; but being told 


that Modred had usurped the crown, he 
hastened back to Britain, and fought the 
eat battle of the West, where he re- 
ceived his death-wound from the hand of 
Modred.—Geoffrey, British History, ix. 
15-20; x. (1142). 
Great Arthor did advance 
To mest, with his allies, that pulsant force In Frances 
By Luckes thither led. 
Drayton, Potyeldion, tv. (1613). 
Lucre’tia, daughter of Spurius Lu- 
eretius prefect of Rome, and wife of 
Tarquinius Collati’nus. She was dis- 
honoured by Sextus, the son of Tar- 
quinius Superbus. Having avowed her 
our in the presence of her father, 
her husband, Junius Brutus, and some 
others, she stabbed hersclf. 
This subject has been dramatized in 
Ant. Vincent Arnault, in a 
tragedy called Zucréce (1792); and b 
Francois Ponsard in 1843. In English, 
by Thomas Heywood, in a tragedy en- 
titled The Rape of Lucrece (1630); by 
Nathaniel Lee, entitled Lucius Junius 
Brutus (seventeenth century); and by 
John H. Payne, entitled Brutus or The 
Fall of Tarquin (1820). Shakespeare 
selected the same subject for his poem 
entitled The Rape of Lucrece (1594). 
Lucrezia di Borgia, daughter of 
pope Alexander VI. She was thrice 
marricd, her last husband being Alfonso 
duke of Ferra’ra. [Defure this marriage, 
she had a natural son named Genna’ro, 
who was brought up by a Neapolitan 
fisherman. When grown: to manhood, 
Gennaro had a commission given him in 
the arniy, and in the battle of Rimini he 
saved the life of Orsini. In Venice he 
declaimed freely against the vices of 
Lucrezia di Borgia, and on one occa- 
sion he mutilated the excutcheon of the 
duke by knocking off the B, thus con- 
verting Borgia into Orgia.  Lucrezia 
insisted that the perpetrator of this insult 
should suffer death by poison ; but when 
she discovered that the offender was ber 
own son, she gave him an antidote, and 
released him from jail. Scareely, ow- 
ever, was he liberated, than he was 
poisoned at a banquet given by the 
rincess Neg’reni. Ywucrezia now told 
Gennaro that he was her own son, and 
died as her son expired. — Donizetti, 
Leereria di Bor yia (an opera, 1834). 
*,* Victor Hugo has a drama entitled 
Lacréce Lor.jia. 
Lucullus, a wealthy Roman, notel 
for h's banquets and self-indulgence. On 
25 


577 LUCY. 


when a superb su had 
been , being asked who were to 
be his guests, he re lied, * Lucullus will 
ri ae i wi us” (3.0, 
110-57). 

Ne'er Falernian threw a richer 


Light Luculhes’ tables. 
“on . Drinking & 


Luc’umo, a satrap, chieftain, or 
khedive among the ancient Etruscans. 
The over-king was called Jara, Servius 
the grammarian says: “Litctimo rex 
sonat lingua Etrusca ;” but it was such a 
king as that of Bavaria in the empire of 


Germany, where the king of Prussia is 
the /ars. 
And plainly and more 
Dy pert and rot. by end wrest, 
Lord i] 
wert Sl at 


Lucy, a dowerless girl betrothed to 
Amidas. Being forsaken by him for 
the wealthy Philtra, she threw ‘herself 
into the but was saved by clinging to 
a chest. Both being drifted ashore, it 
was found that the chest contained great 
treasures, which Lucy gave to Bracidas, 
the brother of Amidas, who married her. 
In this marriage, Bracidas found “two 
goodly portions, and the better she.”— 

penser, Faéry Queen, v. 4 (1596). 

Lucy, daughter of Mr. Richard 
Wealthy, a rich London merchant. Her 
father wanted her to marry a wealthy 
tradesman, and as she refused to do so, 
he turned her out of doors. Being intro- 
duced as a jille de joie to sir George 
Wealthy ‘the minor,” he soon ived 

ad been 


her tO ea & modest girl who 
entrapped, an @ pro marriage. 
When the facts of the case were known, 
Mr. Wealthy and the sir William (the 
father of the young man) were delighted 
at the happy termination of what might 
have proved a most untoward affair.— 
8. Foote, Zhe Minor (1760). 


Lucy |Goopwitt), a girl of 1 
and a ound of matte, i by he” 
father who was a widower. ‘She has 
seen nothing,” he says; “she knows 
nothing, and, therefore, has no will of 
her own.” Old Goodwill wished her to 
marry one of her relations, that his money 
miyht be kept in the family ; but Lucy 
had ‘ will” enough of her own to see 
that her relations were boobies, and 
selected for her husband a big, burly 
footman named Thomas.—Fielding, 
Virgin Unmashed. 

Lucy [Locx1T], daughter of Lockit the 

P 





LUKE. 





when she and her daughter became de- 
dent on him, he cut down the super- 
ities of the fine lady to the measure of 
her original state—as daughter of Giood- 
man Humble, farmer.— inger, Zhe 
City Madam (1689). 
Luke, patriarch’s nuncio, and bishop of 
the Druses. He terms the Druses P 
beaists went to make me blshop of 
Robart Browning. The Return f the Drwee, ¥ 
Luke (Sir) or Sin Luxg Lixp, a taft- 
hunter, a devotee to the bottle, and a 
hanger-on of great men for no other 
reason than mere snobbism. Sir Luke 
will ‘‘cling to sir John till the baronet 
is superseded by my lord; quitting the 
pony peer for an earl, and sacriticing all 
ree to a duke.”"—S. Foote, Zhe Loune 


Luke’s Bird (5.), the ox. 


Luke’s Iron Crown. George and 
Lake Dosa headed an unsuccessful revolt 
against the Hungarian nobles in the six- 
teenth century. Luke was put to death 
by a red-hot iron crown, in mockery of 
his having been proclaimed king. 

This was not an unusual punishment 
for those who sought regal honours in 
the Middle Ages. Thus, when Tancred 
usurped the crown of Sicily, kaiser 
Heinrich VI. of Germany set bim on a 
red-hot iron throne, and crowned him 
ur) red-hot iron crown (twelfth cen- 
tury). 

*,* The ‘iron crown of Lombardy” 
must not be mistaken for an iron crown 
of punishment. ‘The former is one of 
the nails used in the Crucitixion, beaten 
out into a thin no of iron, magnificently 
get in gold, and adurned with jewels. 
Charlemagne and Napoleon I. were both 
crowned with it. 


Luke’s Summer (:.), or L'eté de 
& SMaurtin, a few weeks of tine summerly 
weather, which occur between St. Luke's 
Day (October 18) and St. Martin's Day 
(November 11). 

In axh St. Luke's short summer lived these men, 
Nearing the goal of three score years and ten. 
W. Morris, The hurthly Purudisc ("' March”), 

Lully (ayjmond), an alchemist who 
searched for the philosopher's stone b 
distillation, and made some useful chemi- 
cal discoveries. Lully was also a mayi- 
cian and a philosophic dreamer. He is 
generally called Doctor Iliuminatus (1285- 

15). 





LUMPEIN. 
Me ana Ragged Lao ace ea 
(Lord), a voluptuary, 


Lumbercourt 
greatly in debt, who consented, for a 
money consideration, to give his daughter 


to McSycophant. 
however, had no fancy for the 
married Constantia, the girl of his choi 
His lordship was in alarm lest 
tretemps should be his ruin 
Pertinax told him the bargain 
still remain if Egerton’ 
brother, Sandy, were acce 
lordship instead. To this hi 

Lady Fool a Lumbercourt, 
of lord Leaabeeone who, for 
sideration, consented to marry 
McSycophant; but as Egerton 
fancy for the lady, she agreed to 
Egerton’s brother Sandy on the 
terms. 





E 


fd 


A 
F 


cit 


rE 


H 


brother teins good to Rudoipha as another.°—O. 
Phe Man of the Worid, ¥. (1764). 

Lumbey (Dr.), a stout, bluff-looking 

ntleman, with no shirt-collar, and a 

d that had been growing since yester- 

day morning; for the doctor was very 

popular, and the neighbourhood prolific, 

Dickens, Nicholas Nickleby (1888). 


Lumley (Captain), in the royal arm 
under the Ati ontrose.—Sir W. 
Scott, Old Mortality (time, Charles II.). 


Lumon, a hill in Inis-Huna, near the 
residence of Sulmalla. Sulmalla was the 
daughter of Conmor (king of Inis-Huna) 
and his wife Clun’-galo.— Ossian, Zemora, 

Where art thou, beam of light? Hunters from the 
raz) Lunson, near the bed of rose? “Ah me!” I bebeid 
Per bow in the hall. Where art thou, beam of lyht? 

Bishop bas selected these words from 

Zemora for a glee of four voices. 


Lumpkin (Tony), the 
natured booby son of Mrs. Hardcastle 
by her first husband. Tony dearly loved 
@ practical joke, and was fond of low 
society, where he could air his conceit 
and self-importance. He is described as 
““an awkward booby, reared up and 
spoiled at his mother's apron ” (act 
i. 2); and ‘if burning the footman's 
shoes, frighting ic] the maids, and worry- 
ing the kittens, amorous,” then Tony 
was humorous to a degree (act i. 1).— 





LUTIN. 


sensminde,” with thie inscription: ‘‘Upon 
this stone, in 1528, Hans Tausen tirst 
paeached Luther's doctrine in Viborg.” 


Lutin, the gipsy of lord Dal- 
o.—Sir W. Scott, Fortunes of Nigel 
time, James I.). 


Lux Mundi, Johann Wessel; also 
ealled Mayister Contradictionum, for his 
opposition to the Scholastic philosophy. 
14a) the predecessor of Luther (141 


Luz, a bone which the Jews affirm 
remains uncorrupted till the last day, 
when it will form the nucleus of the new 
body. This bone Mahomet called Al 
Ajo or the rump-bone. 

Eben Ezra and Manasseh ben Israil 
aay this bone is in the rump. 

The learned rabbins of the Jews 

Write, there's » bung, which they call bees (1 api.) 

8. Butler, Hudibras, til. 3 (1678). 

Lyvous (‘‘ spleen-melter”), one of the 
names of Bacchus. 

Of young Tyan Pert the dread exploits, 
evikenside, Hymn to the Natads (1767). 

Lyb’ius (Sir), a very young knight, 
who undertook to rescue the lady of 
Sinadone. After overcoming sundry 
knights, giants, and enchantera, he en- 
tered the palace, when the whole editice 
fell to picces, and a hornole serpent 
coiled about his neck and kissed him. 
The spell being broken, the serpent tumed 
into the lady of Sinadone, who became 
gir Lybius’s bride.—Lidcuur (a romance). 


Lyca’on, king of Arcadia, instituted 
human eacritices, and was metamorphosed 
into a wolf. Some say all his sons were 
also changed into wolves, except one 
pamed Nictimus. Oh that 


Of Arcady the beares 
Might plucke awaye thine ears; 
The wikle wolfe, Lichun’, 
Bite asundre thy backe-bone ! 
J. Skelton, /AWip Sparow (time, Heury VIIL) 
For proof, when with Lycd‘on's tyranny 
Man dur-t not deal, then did Jove... 
Him fitly to the greedy wolf transform, 
Lord Bruouke, Declination ef Monarchy (1633). 


uyce’um, a gymnasium on the banks 
of the Ilissus, in Attica, where Aristotle 


taught philosophy as he paced the walks. 
Gutde my way 
Through fair Lyceurn’s walks. 

tAkenside, Pleasures of /muyination, 1. 715 (1746). 

Lychor’ida, nurse of Mari’na who 
was born at sea. Marina was the daugh- 
ter of Fericles prince of Tyre and his 
wife ‘Thais’a. — Shakespeare, Pericles 
Prince of Tyre (1608). 





oe 


LYDIA LANGUISH. 


Lyc’idas, the neme under which 
Milton celebrates the untimely death of 
Edward King, Fellow of Chriet’s Coll 
Cambridge. Edward King was dro 
in the passage from Chester to Ireland, 
August 10, 1637. He was the son of sir 
John King, secretary for Ireland. 

*,* Lycidas is the name of a shepherd 
in Virgil's Ecloyue, iii. 

Lycome’des (4 syl.), king of Scyros, 
to whose court ae was sent, dias- 
guised as a maiden, by his mother Thetis, 
who was anxious to prevent his going te 
the Trojan war. 


Lycore’a (He has slept on Lyooréa 
one of the two chief summits mount 
Parnassus. Whoever slept there became 
either inspired or mad. 


Lydford Law. “First hang and 
draw, then hear the cause by Lydford 
law.” Lydford, in the county of OR. 

I oft have heard of Lydford law, 
How od dtin jadgmeetaliens 
‘A Devonshire post {anom.), 

Jedburgh Justice, Cupar Justice, and 
Abingdon Law, mean the same thing. 

Lynch Law, Burlaw, Mob Law, and 
Club Law, mean summary justice dealt to 
an offender by a self-constituted judge. 


dia, daughter of the king of Lydia, 
wey, sought in marriage by e icesvoa 8 
Thracian knight. His suit being rejected, 
he repaired to the king of Armenia, who 
gave him an army, with which he be- 





siered Lydia. He was aded to 
raise the siege, and the lady tested the 
sincerity of his love by a series of taska, 


all of which he accomplished. Lastly, 
she set him to put to death his allies, 
and, being powerless, mocked him. Al- 
cestts pined and died, and Lydia was 
doomed to endless torment in hell.— 
Ariosto, Orlando Furioso, xvii. (1616). 
Lydia, lady’s-maid to Widow Green, 
She was the sister of Trueworth, ran 
away from home to avoid a hateful 
marriage, took service for the nonce, and 
ultimately married Waller. She was “a 
miracle of virtue, as well as beauty,” 
warm-hearted, and wholly without arti- 
fice. —S. Knowles, Zhe Love-Chase (1837). 


Lydia Languish, niece and ward 
of Mrs. Malaprup. She had a fortune of 
£30,000, but, if ahe married without her 
aunt's consent, forfeited the 
thereof. She was a great noyel reader, 
and was courted by two rival lovere— 
Bob Acres, and captain Absolute whom 





eee 


LYRISTS. 583 





used him very scornfully at first; but at 
every victory which he gained she abated 
somewhat of her contempt ; and married 
him after he had succeeded in delivering 
ryoners. The lot of Lyonors is not told. 

Liones.}—Tennyson, /dylis of the 

‘ing (‘Gareth and Lynette”). 

*,* According to the collection of 
tales edited by sir T. Malory, the lady 
Lyonors was quite another person. She 
was daughter of earl Sanam, and mother 
of sir Borre by king Arthur (pt. i. 15). 
It was Lionés-who was the sister of Linet, 
and whose father was sir Perraunt of Castle 
Perilous (pt. i. 153). The Sistory says 
that Lionés married Gareth, and Linet 
married his brother, sir Gaheris. (See 
GARETH, p. 364.) 


Lyrists (Prince of), Franz Schubert 
(1797-1828). 


Lysander, a young Athenian, in love 
with Hermia daughter of Egéus (8 syl.). 
Eyeus had promised her in marriage to 
Demé¢trius, and insisted that she should 
either marry him or suffer death ‘‘ac- 
cording to the Athenian law.” In this 
dilemma, Hermia fled from Athens with 
Lysander. Demetrius went in pursuit, 
and was followed by Helena, who doted 
on him. All four fell asleep, and 
*‘dreamed a dream” about the fairies. 
When Demetrius awoke, he became more 
reasonable, for, seeing that Hermia dis- 
liked him and Iiclena loved him sin- 
cerely, he consented to forego the former 
and wed the latter. Egeus, being in- 
formed thereof, now readily agreed to 
give his daughter to Lysander, and all 
went merry as a marriage bell.—Shake- 
ppeare, Afidsummer Nujit's Dream (1592), 


Lysim’achus, governor of Metali’na, 
who marries Mari’na the daughter of 
Per’iclés prince of Tyre and his wife 
Thais'a.—Shakespeare, Pericles Prince of 
Tyre (1608). 


Lysimachus, the artist, a citizen.—Sir 
W. Scott, Cuunt Rubert of Paris (time, 
Rufus). 


Lyttelton, addressed by Thomson in 
*‘ Spring,” was lord George Lyttelton of 
Hagley Park, Worcestershire, who pro- 
cured for the poet a pension of £100 a 
ear. Tle was a poet and historian 
179-1773). 
O Lyttelton . . . from these, distracted, off 
You wander thre’ the philcsophic world; . 2 « 
And oft, conducted by hiaturic truth, 
You tread the long extent of backward times... 
Or, turning thence thy view, these graver thoughts 
The Muses charm. 
Thoinson, The Seasons (*‘ Spring,” 1738), 





M. 


M, said to represent the human face 
without the two eyes. By adding these, 
we get Om 0, the Latin Aomo, “man.” 
Danté, speaking of faces gaunt with star- 
vation, says: 


Who reads the name 
For man upon his forehead, there the M 


Had traced most ly. 
4, Purgatery, xxili. (1306). 
*,* The two downstrokes stand for: 
the contour, and the V of the letter for 
the nose Thus: I°Y°% 


M. This letter is curiously 
coupled with Napoleon I. and III. - 
1. NAPOLEON I.; 

(a) Mack, (Generai capitulated af Ulm (October 19, 


MalITLAND (Qaptain), of the Bellerophon, was the 
person to whom he surrendered (1814) 

MALET conspired against him (1812). 

MALLIZU was one uf ministers, with Maret and 
Montalivet. 

ant rrvedpeey ened ed recognize his geotus at the 
military college (1779). 

MARCHAND was his valet; accompanied him to 86 
Helena; and assisted Montholon in his A/émoirea 

MagetT duke of Bamano was his most wusty coun- 
sellor (1904-1814). 

Marpixz Louise was his wife, the mother of his son, 
and shared his highest fortunes. His son was born 
in March ; 90 was the son of Napoleva IIL. 

MARMONT was the second to desert him; Murat the 


first (buth in 1814). 
division had M for their 


6 Mar-hals and 26 
initial letter. 

MAnsKNA was the general who gained the victory of 
Kivoli (1797), and Napoleon gave him the subei- 
quet of L' Knfant Cheri de la Victutre. 

MELAS was the Austrian seneral conquered at Maren- 
Ro, and forced back to the Mincio (June 14, 1800). 

Maxov lost bim Egy pt (1gvl). 

METTERNICH vanquisbed him in diplomacy. 

MIOLLIS was employed by him to take Pius VII. 
prisoner (1800). 

MONTALIVET was one of his ministers, with Maret 
and Mallicu. 

MUNTBEL wrote the Ife of bis som, * the king of 
Rome ™ (1583). 

Montesqvixu was his first chamberiain. 

MoNTHULON was his companivn at 83t. Helena, and, 
in conjunction with Marchand, wrote his Mé:nvires, 

Moregac betrayed him (1813). 

MoBTI&B was one of bis best generals, 

MoURAD Bey was the general he vanquished In the 
battle of the Pyramids (July 23, 1798). 

MunaT was bis -in-law. He was the first 
martyr in bis cause, and was the frst 
him; then Marmont. 

Murat was made by him king of Naples (1806 
(8) MADRID capitulated to him (December 4, 1&8). 
MAGLIANI was one of bis famous victories (April 15, 


1796). 

MALMAISON was his last halting-piace in France, 
Here the empress Joe phine lived after her divorce, 
and here she died (]8)4). 

MALTA taken (June 1), 1797), and while there be 
abolished the order called * The Knights of Malta” 
(1798). 

Max<tua was murrendered te him by Wurmeor, in 
17v7, 


MARENGO was his first great victory (June 14, 1800). 
MARKKILLES fs the place be retired to when pro- 
wtibed by Paoll (1792) Here, too, was his first 
exploit, when captain, 1s reducing the * Federal 
iste” (1793), 








ehurchyard"). The dance of death was 
@ favourite subject in the Middle Ages 
for wall-paintings im cemeteries and 
churches, especially in Germany. Death 
ig represented as presiding over a round 
of dancers, consisting of rich and poor, 
old and young, male and female. <A 
work descriptive of this dance, originally 
in German, bas been translated into most 
European languages, and the painting of 
Holbein, in the Dominican convent at 
Basle, bas a world-wide reputation. 
Others are at Minden, Lucerne, Lubeck, 
Dresden, and the nurth side of old St. 
Paul's. 
#ivie, What are these pointing: on the walls arcund ua! 
The Dane Micaber™ ... “The Lance of 
Longfellow, The Golden Legend (1851). 


Macaire (Le Chevilier Richard), a 


French knight, who, aided by lieutenant | 


Landry, murdered Aubry de Moutdidier 
in the forest of Dondy, in 1371, Muont- 
didier’s dog, named Dragon, showed such 
an aversion to Macaire, that suspicion was 
aroused, and the man and doy were pitted 
to single combat. The result was fatal 
to the man, who died confessing lis 
guilt. 

There are two French plays on the 
subject, one entitled £e Chien de dfoni- 
arji, and the othur Le Chim d' Aubry, 


The former of these has been adapted to | 


the English stave, lrayon waa called 
Chien de Mountinjs, because the asansei- 
nation took plaice near this castle, and was 
depictel in the great hall over the 
chininey-piece. 

In the Lnylish drama, the sash of the 
muniered wan is found in the possession 
of lieutenant Macuire, ond is recognized 
by Ursula, who worked the sword-knut, 
aod gave it to caplain Aubn, who was 
her sweetheart. Mavcaire then confessed 
the crime, Ilia acewmplice, lieutenant 
Landry, trving to escape, was seized by 
the doy Dragon, and bitten to death. 


Muctire (fubert), a cant name for a 
Frenchman, 


Mac.Alpine (Jemie), landlady of the 
Clachan of Aberfuvle.—Sir W, Seutt, 
div toy (time, George T.). 


Macamut, a sultan of Cambaya, who 
lived so inuch upon poison that his very 
breath and tewwh were fotal.—lurclas, 
Pilyrinvje (Mil). 


MacAnaleister (Furhin), a follower 
of Tivh Iuv.—sir W. Seott, Bod fioy 
(time, George I). 


585 





LLL A eee 


MACBETH. 
Macare (2 syl.), the impersonation 





| of ood tem pee V oltaite, Theléme and 


Jfacare (an allegory). 
Macaulay (Anus), o Highland chief, 


| in the army of the earl of Montrose, 


Allan Macaulay or “ Allan of the Red 
Hand," brother of Angus. Allan is “‘a 
seer,” and is in love with Annot Lyle. 
Ile stabs the earl of Menteith on the eve 
of his marriage, out of jealousy, but the 
earl recovers and marries Annot Lyle,— 
Sir W. Scott, Legend of Muntrvse (time, 
Charles I,). 

Macbeth’, son of Sinel thane of 
Glamis, and grandson of Malcolm II. 
by his second danghter; the elder 
daughter married Crynin, father of Dun- 
ean who succeeded hia grandfather on 
the throne. Hence king Duncan and 
Macbeth were cousins, Duncan, stayin 
as a jruest with Macbeth at the castle o 
Inverness (1040), was murdered by his 
host, who then usurped the crown. The 
battle which Macbeth had just won was 
this :—Sueno king of Norway had landed 
with an army in Fife, for the purpose of 
invading Scotland; Macbeth and Banquo 
were sent against him, and defeated bim 
with such loss, that only ten men of all 
his army esenped alive, Macbeth was 
promised by the witehes (1) that none of 
woman born should kill him, and (2) 
that he should not die till Durham Wood 
removed to Dunsinane. He was slain in 
battle by Macduff, who was ‘from hia 
nivther’s womb untimely mpped;" and as 
for the moving wood, the soldiers of 
Macduff, in their march to Dunsinane, 
were commanded to carry boughs of the 
forest before them, to conceal their 
numbers, 

Lidy Macheth, wife of Macbeth, a 
woulan of great ambition and inexorable 
will. When ber hislind told her that 
the witches prophesied he should be king, 
she induced him to murder Duncan, who 
wis at the time their guest, She would 
herself have done it, but “he looked in 
sleep a0 like her father that she could 
not.” Ilowever, when Macbeth bad mur- 
dered the king, she felt no scruple in 
murdering the two grooms that slept with 
him, anithrowing theguiltonthem. After 
her husland was crowned, she was greatly 
troubled ty dreams, and used to walk in 
her sleep, trying to rub from her hands 
imaginary staina of blood, She died, 
probwbly, by her own hand,—Shake- 
apeare, Macbeth (1606), 


She je a terrible imperonation of evil pardom and 
mighiy powers, newer sc far romorel from cur own tmiure 








MACFITTOCH. 





MacFittoch (4fr.), the dancing 
master at Middlemas.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Surgeon's Dawjhter (time, GeorgeII.). 


MacFleck'noe, in Dryden's satire so 
called, is meant for Thomas Shadwell, 
who was promoted to the office of poet- 
laureate. The design of Dryden's — 
is to represent the inanguration of one 
dullard as successor of another in the 
monarchy of nonsense. R. Flecknoe was 
an Irish priest and hackney poet of no 

tation, and Afac in Celtic being son, 

acFlecknoe" means the son of the 

taster so named, Flecknoe, seeking 
or & successor to his own dulness, selects 
Shadweil to bear his mantle. 


Bhadwell alone my perfect | beurs, 
Mature in dulnem from bis ag LER 
The reat to ene felt meaning & = 
Bat Shadwell never deviates ino enmc. 


, Moe Plecknos (a entire, 1632). 
An ordinary reader would scarcely suppose that Shad. 
wall, who bb here meant by M “he rece, worth 
tel andl that descending to mich 


gant, wea like 2 an eagle stooping to catch flies, But the 
truth ra, that Shadwell at one one hekd dovides mph ew 
ten with this great poet. bev 
able dumces, who... spply talkative eoluare with 
muateriala for convermtion.. -(Gvkimith, Deol: gj 
Baglish Posts (1767). 

MacGrainer (Master), a dissenting 
minister at Kippletringan.—Sir W. Scott, 
Guy Manaeriny (time, George 1.). 


MacGregor (fob Roy) or Ronertr 
CaAMPRELL, the outlaw. He was a 
Highland freebooter. 

felen M'Grejor, Rob Roy's wife. 


Hamish and Robert Oiy, the sons of | 


Rob Ruy.—Sir W. 
George I.). 


MacGrejor, or Robin Oig M‘Combich, 
& Highland drover, who stabbed Harry 
Wakefield at an ale-house. Being tried 
at Carlisle for the murder, he was found 
guiltv and condemned.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Two Drovers (time, George III.). 


- MacGruther (Sandie), a bezgar 
imprisoned by Mr. Godfrey Bertram 
laird of Kllangowan.—Sir W. Scott, Guy 
Mannerin) (time, George II.). 


MacGuffog (David), keeper of Por- 
tanferry prison. 

Mrs. } ‘Guifoq, David's wife.—Sir W. 
Scott, Guy Manncriny (time, George LI.). 


Macham (vert), the discoverer of 
Madeira Island, to which he was driven 
while eluping with his laly-love (A.D. 
1344). The lady soon died, and the 
mariners made off with the ship. Mac- 
ham, after his mourning was wver, made 
a rude boat out of a tree, and, with two or 


Scott, Moh Roy (time, 


MACILDUY. — 
three men, putting forth to sca, landed on 
the shores of Africa. The Re Rev. W. L. 


Bowles has made the marvellous adven- 
tures of Robert Macham the subject of 
a poem; and Drayton, in his Polyolbion, 
xix., has devoted twenty-two lines to the 
same subject. 


Macheath (Captain), captain of 
gang of highwa _ whe Phold-faced 
ruffian, “game” to the very | He is 
married to Polly Peachum, but finds 
himself dreadfully embarrassed between 
Polly his wife, and Lucy to whom he haa | 
promised m Being ns Hage begs by | 
sens women at a drinking 

captain is lodged in Newgate, at Lane 
effects his esca He ia reca 
tried, and condemned to death ; but 
being: reprieved, acknowledges Polly to 
be his wife, and promises to remain 
constant to her for the future.—J. Gay, 
Lhe Beggar's Opera (1727). 
scqtind on the tage—De. Jobs = 

T. Walker was the original ‘* Mac- 
heath,” but Charles Hulet (1701-1786) 
was allowed to excel him, O'Keefe 
gays West Ligges (1720-1786) waa the 
best ‘‘ Macheath " he ever saw in ny 
song, and manners. Incledon (1764— 
1826) performed the part well, and in 
1821 Miss Blake delighted play-goers by 


| her pretty imitation of the highwayman. 


Machiavelli (Niccolo del), of Me- 
rence, author of a book called 
Prince, the object of which is to oe 
that all is fair in diplomacy, as well as in 
“Jove and war" (1469-1527). 

**  Miuchiavellism, political eunni 
and duplicity, the art of tricking an 
overreaching by diplomacy, 

Tiberius, the Roman emperor, is called 
“The Imperial Machiavelli” (n.c. 42 
to A.p. 37). 


MaclIan ((ilchrist), father of Tan 
Eachin M'‘lan, 

fan Fachm (or Hector) M'Tan, called 
Conachar, chief of the clan Quhele, son of 
Gilchrist M‘lan, Hector is old Glover's 
Highland apprentice, and casts himself 
down a precipice, because Catharine 
Glover loves Henry Smith better than 
bimself.—Sir W. t, Fuir Maid of 
Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Macliduy, or Mhich Connel Dhu, a 

a chief in the army of Montrose. 

ir W. Seott, Legend of Montrose 
(time, Charles L.). 1 





Ses 6 _ 


MACROTHUMUS. 589 


Ethiopian race, said to live to 120 years 
and upwards. They are the handsomest 
and tallest of all men, as well as the 
longest-lived. 

Macroth'umus, Long-suffering per- 
aonified. Fully deseribed in canto x. 
(Greek, matrot/imaa, “ long-suffering.") 
—Phineas Fletcher, The Purple Island 
(1633). 


MacSarcasm (Sir Arc), in Love a- 
la-mode, by C. Macklin (1778). Boaden 
gaye: “To Covont Garden, G, F. Cooke 
[1746-1812] was a great acquisition, as he 
was a ‘Shylock,’ an ‘Tago,’ a ‘ Kitely,' 
a ‘sir Archy,’ anda ‘sir Pertinax'’ [WeSy- 
cophant].” Leigh Hunt says that G. F, 
Cooke was a sew kind of Macklin, and 

like him, execlled in “ Shylock" and 
“sir Archy M‘Sarcasm.” 

*,* “Shylock” in the Merchant oj 
Fenice (Shakespeare) ; “ Iago” in Othelio 
Shakespeare); “‘ Kitely" in Avery Afun 
wm Jlis Humour (0. Jonson) ; “sir Archy™ 

that is, ““M‘Sarcasm"; “sir Pertinax 
MeSvcophant" in Zhe Mun of the World 
(Macklin). 

MacBillergrip, a Scotch pawn- 
broker, in search of Robin Scrawkey, his 
runaway apprentice, whom he pursues 
apstaira and assaila with blows, 

Mrs. M‘oillerjrip, the pawnbroker’s 
wife, always in terror lest the manager 
should pay her indecorous attentions.— 
Charles Mathews (At home, in Multiple). 

The skill with which Mathews [1773-115| carrl<l on 


Gonvermtion betwren thes Uirce perwos praluced @ 


mat, metonkhing efect.—Lvatonpwrary Paper, 


MacStin’ger (J/rs.), a widow who © 


kept lodgings at No. 9, Brig Place, on 
the brink of a canal near the India Docks, 


Captain Cuttle lodged there. Mrs. Mac- 


Stinger was a turmagant, and rendered | 
lie was 


the captain's life miserable. 
afraid of her, and, although her lodyer, 
was herslave. When her son Alexander 
was refractory, Mrs. MavStinger used to 
seat him on a cold paving-stone. 


second hishand.—C. Dickens, Dumbey 
and Son (18-40). 


MacSye'ophant (ir Pertinar), the | 
2, ae | of the inhabitants, generally one in each 


hot-healed, ambitions father of Charles 
Egerton, His love for Scotland i very 
grent, and he is continually quorrelling 
with his family becanuwe they do not bold 
his country in sufficient reverence, 

1 rater it [my fortene| by Lowing ... I never could 
Stand stralglit inthe preernre of o greet mon, bul alwaye 
oo Luced, cud Lue, ms lt were by Instinct.—Ace 


She | 
contrived to make capluin Luosby her | 





MAD. 


Charles Egerton M'Sycophant, son of 
sir Pettus: Feeetton a the mother’s 
name. Charles Egerton marries Con- 
atantia.—C. Macklin, Zhe Man of the 
World (1764). 


Mactab (The Hon, Miss Tucretia), 
sister of lord Lofty, and sister-in-law of 
lieutenant Worthington “ the poor gentle- 
man.” Misa Lucretia was an old maid, 
“stiff as a ramrod.” Being very poor, 
she allowed the .ieutenant “‘the honour 
of maintaining er," for which “ she 
handsomely yave . im her countenance ;” 
but when the lieuwenant was obliged to 
discontinue his hospitality, she resolved 
to “countenance a tobacconist of Glas- 

ow, who was her sixteenth cousin,”"—G, 

vlman, Tie Poor Gentleman (1802). 


MacTavish Mhor or Hamish 
M‘Tavish, a Highland outlaw. 

Elspat M‘ Turish, or “‘ The Woman of 
the Tree,” widow of M*Tavish Mbor; 
“the Highland widow." She prevents 
her son from joining his regiment, in 
consequence of which he is shot as a 
deserter, and Elepat goes mand, 

Hamish Bean Af Tavish, son of Elspat 
M'Tavish. He joins a Highland reqi- 
ment, and goes to visit his mother, who 

ives him o sleeping draught to detain 
1im. As he does not join his regiment in 
time, he is arrested for desertion, tried, ~ 
and shot at Dunbarton Castle.—Sir W. 


Scott The Highland Widow (time, George 
| IL). 


MacTurk (Captain Munjo or ITector), 


| “the man of peace,” in the managin 


hotel.—Sir W. 
Vell (time, George 


committee of the Spa 
Scott, St. Monan's 
III,). 


MacVittie (Epiraim), a Glasgow 


| merchant, one of Osluldistone’s creditors, 
| —Sir W. Scutt, Jus Loy (time, George 


I.). 


MacWheeble (Duncan), bailie ot 
Tully Veolan to the baron of Bradwar- 
dine.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley (time. 
George II.). 


Mad. The Bedlam of Belgium is 
Gheel, where madmen reside in the houses 


family. 

lymphna was a woman of rank, mur- 
dered by her father for resisting his 
incestuous passion, and became the 
tutelar saint of those stricken in spirit. 
A shrine in time rose in ber honour, which 
for ten centuries has been consecrated to 





(Gao ca oo 


MADOR. 691 





MAGIC GARTERS. 





Mador (Sir), s Scotch knight, who 
accused queen Guinever of having poisoned 
his brother. Sir Launcelot du Lac chal- 
lenged him to single combat, and over- 
threw him ; for which service king Arthur 

ve the queen's champion La Joyeuse 

e as a residence. 


Mesce’nas (Caius Cilnius), a wealthy 
Roman nobleman, a friend of Augustus, 
and liberal patron of Virgil, Horace, 
Propertius, and other men of genius. 
His name has become proverbial for a 
“munificent friend of literature” (died 
B.C. 8). 
pectnne to called a rai ha oar pg ea ar 

Meo’ a Bacchant, plu. Meonads 
or Meo’nades (8 sy/.). So called from 
the Greek, mainomai (“‘to be furious”), 
because they acted like mad women in 
their “ religious” festivals. 

ote ee ee 
Phin. Fletcher, The Purple Jeland, vil. (1633). 

Meson’ides (4 syl.). Homer is so 
called, either because he was son of 
Meon, or because he was a native of 
Meon’ia (Lydia). He is also called 
Sieonius Senex, and his poems Afaunian 


Lays. 
When great Nieonides, tn rapid song, 
The thundering tide of hattle rol's along, 
Exch ravished mm feels the high alarms, 
And all the burning pulses beat to arms 
: Falcuver, The SAhbpeorcck, lil 1 (1756). 
Meoviad, a satire by Gifford, on the 
Della Cruscan school of poetry (pub- 
lished 1796). The word is from Viryil’s 
Eclogue. 
Qui Bavium non odit, amet tua carmina, Mavi, 


idem et | hi 
A Eee Re ee etl Bet. BL 60; 6h 


Who hates not Bavius, or on Meevius dotes, 
Should plough with foxes, or shuuld milk he-goats, 
Meevius, any vile poet. (See Ba- 
vius.) 
But if fond Raviua vent his clouted song, 
Or Meevius chant hls thoughts in brothel charm, 
The widee-w vulgar, ina numerous throng, 
Like summer files about the dunghill swarm .. « 
Who hatea not one may he the other love. 
Phineas Fletcher, Tac Purple idand, 1. (1633). 
Magalo’na (The Fair), daughter of 
the king of Naples. She is the heroine of 
an old romance of chivalry, originally 
written in French, but translated into 
Spanish in the fifteenth century. Cer- 
vantes alludes to this romance in Don 
Quirvte. The main incident of the story 
turns on a flying horse made by Merlin, 
which came into the possession of Peter 
of Provence.— Zhe History of the Fair 


Mayalona and Peter Bom of the Count of 


rovence. 
*,.* Tieck has reproduced the histo 
of ona in German (1778-1853). a 


M megro King, Gaspar ee of 
Tarshish ry Magi races and 
0 e three - Hie offering was 
myrrh, indicative of death. 

As the Carlet the 
Mage negre te babe, ‘ 

Maggots of the Brains. Swift 
says it was the opinion of certain virtuosi 
that the brain is filled with little mag- 
gots, and that thought is produced by 
their biting the nerves. 

Re eS ae ere 

Maggy, the half-witted grand- 
daughter of Little Dorrit’s nuree, She 
had had a fever at the age of ten, from 
ill-treatment, and her mind and intellect 
never went beyond that period. Thus, if 
asked her age, she always replied, ‘‘ Ten ;” 
aod she always re e last two or 
three words of what was said to her. 
She called Amy Dorrit ‘ Little Mother.” 


Ehe wae ohout elght anid twenty, with large bones, 
large features, lorce feet and harale, large eyes. gue) ful 
halr. Wer large open were limp anil pimiet Colorless ¢ 
they @emed to be very ite affected by light, and ip 


and nomitivally ail. There wae oleo that attentive 
Dttening eipreadon in ler face, which is een do tie fee 
of the blind ; bat she was got bili, having ong telerwhiy 


tervicesble eve. Fler face wae not eucoefiegly agty, being 
relecivel by alle... A grest while cop, with © quan. 
iy of opyoe friling , .. apologiawd for Mogary’s 
Det, id cree it eo emt Vr ter old) Ila beret fu 
relalo We place open ber bial, theft 0 held on round her 
neck like a gipey's babe. . . . The pet of lier doe 
Teele staweel, with here and there a elpunile ima. 
len!, Her steel] jowke! te a hoge tes-lenf after long 
iifimien.—C. Dickens, Ldtife Gorrig, le. (1607), 

Magi or Three kings o the 
‘¢ wise men from the Foc whe ollowed 
the guiding-star to the manger in Beth- 
lehem with offerings. Melchior king of 
Nubia, the shortest of the three, offered 

old, indicative of royalty; Balthazar 
ing of Chaldea offered frankincense, in- 
dicative of divinity ; and Gaspar 
of Tarshish, a black Ethiop, the tallest 
a ae three, offered myrrh, symbolic of 
eath. 

Melchior means ‘‘ king of light ;” Bal- 
thazar, ‘‘ lord of treasures ;" and Gaspar 
or Caspar, ‘‘ the white one.” 

*,” Klopstock, in his Messiah, makes 
the Magi six in number, and gives the 
names as Hadad, Selima, Zimri, Mirja, 
Beled, and Sunith.—Bk. ve. (1771). 


Magic Garters. No horse can keep 
up with a man furnished with these gar- 
ters. They are made thus: Strips of the 
skin of « young hare are cut two inches 








MAGOG. 


Moa'joq, one of the princes of Satan, 
whose ambition is tu destroy hell. 


Magounce (2 sy/.), Arundel Castle. 

Bhe drow somthward onto the sea-cide, BIL by forme, 
she came ton catle calle) Maweniect, nid now ls culled 
Arindell, in Southsen.—Sir T. Malory, Niatory of Prince 
Arehur, Ui, 118 (147 0), 


Magricio, the champion of Isabella 
of Portugal, who refused to pay truage to 
France. He vanquished the French 
champion, and thus liberated his country 
from tribute. 


M itch (Alel!), a convict for life, 
the unkoown father of Fstella, who waa 
adopted from infuncy by Misa lavisham, 
the daughter of a rich banker, The 
convict, Saving made his escape to Aus- 
tralia, became a successful sleep farmer, 
and sent money secretly to Mr. Jaggera, 
a London lawyer, to educate Pip 74 a 
opener When Tip was 24 years old, 

lagwitch returned to England, under the 
assumed name of Provis, and made him- 
self known to Pip. He was tracked by 
Orlick and Compeyson, arrested, con- 
demned tv death, and died in jail, All 
bis money was confiscated.—C. Dickens, 
Great ELrjectations (1800), 


Mahmut, the “ Turkish Spy," who 
remained undiscovered in Paris for fortv- 
five vears, revealing to his Government 
all the intrigues of the Christian courts 
(1657-1682), 


Mahomet or Mouawnen, the titular 
name taken by Halabi, founder of Islam 
(570-632). 

APPTED Box: Cema son of Zaid bi freedumn, (See 
below, “ Zalnali“) 

ASGEL who reveled the Keninm to Mahomet: trabriel, 

Bansha; Sanjakeherif, kept in the Eyal mosyiio ot 
(Carn shat 0 | reveq ube. 

MIETHPLArE: Meern, A.D oO 

Baw: Al dard fe atria"), eonfersicd fron the 
Jews. Uv hits first battle he drew Lt with mich force Usat 
Mb enajifent ini two, 

UaAw aL + Al Adha ("the alit-eured “), the weiftest of Whe 
@ime en ne of the ten duh aloes wlllttel Lote 

cab all. 

Cewenisee: Marich, mother of Torahts bb won, 
was bile Geevurite: but tee hol burteen other: 

wees: Ali, hikd Leet friew!; Abd Bullin eho al 
Harethi, 

Urinage: Al Folh 
cated fro the Jews 

Iacanri na PY KaApWAlL; Zalnah, Roksaljah, Vou 
Kulthim., aid Fas\iiu Wie Gevuriie (ellel gow oF the 
“hres perfect wien 

Dereat: Aviijud, where [E ena reported Uiet be wes 
abs |A.0, 0)). 

Din ai Medion, on the bp of Ayleinh, bli Gevourlte 
wife, 1) Helirah ‘Jyine 8, ii 

Fatikm : Aled (holy, ccf thee fut lly of Fdetatin ried tril 
of Kaireieh, AlelgiiAli waa a enpill mien Rank al diced 
wien hie eon Wee fe pears wild. Al the death of bia 
titer, lii- Grevliviher feck charge of blet; bot he aleo 
Dice) WIThits (we bea Hie Dliede Lowel m hy Vel» tune be Aba 
Tweh (frou ee age oD eevee te Da Dee Zee ET.) 

FaTuvbR ib-baes Abd Deke, Goer of bie fovnirlie 
Wile Avbelials. 

FiiouT: Hedjrah ur Heg lin, Joly 14, 7. 





lt wa of silver, end wea confis 





5938 








MAHOMET. 


FoLlowtns : called Moslem or Mussulmana, 

Gaasteon: Abed-cl-Motallet, 

Hofee: Al Borak |" the lightning™), bromght to bim 
by Gabriel to carry him to the seventh benven. It bad 
the wings of an onglo, the boo of o oman, with the cheeks 
Of alice, andl equcke Arable 

Ju iner To ATEN (PA), on Al Boral, is called I.ra, 

Mutt: Anina or Aminta, of the family of Zubra 
and tribe of Koreleh (2oe Ze QeT. | 

NickS4ME IN Buyin: El Amin |" the afe man”) 

PRRSUSAL APPEARANCE: Middle beight, rather lean, 
brow shoulders, strongly bolt, shandances of black eurly 
halt, com-black eyes with thick lashes, nose large and 
dlightly bent, beurd long. He had between lle shoalders 
@ idack mole, ** Uie sel of propbery.” 

Poisosan by Zainal, a Jowem, who placed before him 
jolene| int, io fe, He torte it, and ever after 
eufers! from te effects, but survived elght years, 

SCRIPTURE: 4! Aordm |“ the reading). Tt ts divided 
inte 114 chapters, 

fovea uy Kapivan: Al Kielm and Abd Man&f; both 
Ged in chili’, Ty Marlyeh (Mary) bis concubine: 
[brahim who diel when 15 mantha i Adopted soa ¢ 
Vama, the child of ble freedioan Zaid, ‘* Eainab.”) 

BTASDARD : Biajura. : 

Fuccem=on; Abdi Bekr, bli father-in-law (father of 
Agrlstunl |. 

Swuups; Dbo'l Fakir ("the trenchant); Al Batter 

- Tegal Hatel (‘the domlly"); Medham (°* the 
eon”), 

TRIGE: that of the Roralchlies of Roraich of Koretsh, 
om beth eld, 

Usctes: Ab Taleb, a prince of Mecca, bat poor; he 
hook chiarce of the boy between the igo of sown and 14, 
and woe alway bile friend, Abd Label, who called hin 
“aifool,” ood wee always bi bliter enemy; In the 
Kordn, ezi.. “ihe prophet” dewunce him, Hamza, a 
third head of [elon / 

Vicronies: Bedr (4); Muts (029); Toll (60); Honeia 
(0 or 6 Heal jab), 

Witt Mite: Foddla, 

Wives: Teo, and fifteen sono bine 

(1) Kacdijah, o rich whiow of hiv own tribe She had 
teen twier married, an wae 4) yours of age (Mahomet 
beiog LS). Kadicah waa bis sole wife for tornty-fve bral 
and brogbt bio two ome aod fowr daiaghter, (Fatima 
wai ler youngest chill, | , 

(1) Gouin, widow of Bokran, curse of Kis daughter 





Fitinn He married ber in 1), conn alter the death of 
bie fet wlin The fulluwing were slowlinngous with 
Bevuula. 


id) Ayitih, daoghter of Abd Bebr, She was only nine 
yess old on her wedding day. This wes his favourite 
wile, on whee lap be died He called ber une of the 
“Lined periect women,” 

\4) Heod, o whiew, 4 yenrs ok Fhe had » pon when 
fw married Her biber was Linea. 

(ji fainab, dvorced wife of Zaki hia freed slave, 
Married 27 (5 Hevljrali). 

: jf) Terre, & cipdive, widow af a young Arah chief slain 
ewe 

iT) Diehana, a Jewish captive. Her father was Simeon. 

is) Sifipa the copptiond wile al Kendnn This wife 
Githve! the priphet fir forty years, Mahomet put 
Kein to eath la order to marry ler. 

(¥) Unit Halibe jniwther of Halli), widow of Aba 
Bai fis. 

(0) Molmuna, who wae 2 when he married her, and a 
wihew, She sirviwed all bie bet wives, 

*.* [toil be obearved thar musi of Mahomet’s wives 


were whlowe 

Mouhomet. Voltaire wrote a drama 
so entitled in 1748; and James Miller, in 
1740, produced an English version of the 
aame, called Jiuwhomet the /mposter. The 
scheme of the play is this: Mahomet is 
laving sieve tou Mecea, and has in his 
camp Zaplina and Palmira, taken captives 
in childhood and brought up by him. 
They sro really the children of Alcanor 
the chief of Mecca, but know it not, and 
love cach other. Mahomet is in love 
with luluira, and sets Zaphna to murder 

ze 





MAID OF HONOUR. 595 








Maid of Honour (The), by P. Mas- 
singer (1637). Cami’ola, a very wealthy, 
high-minded lady, was in love with prince 
Lertoldo, brother of Roberto king of the 
Two Sicilies; but Bertoldo, being a knight 
‘of Malta, could not marry without a 
dispensation from the . While 
matters were in this state, Bertoldo led 
an army ayainst Aurelia duchess of 
Sienna, and was taken prisoner. Camidla 
paid his ransom, and Aurelia commanded 
the prisoner to be brought before her. 
Bertoldo came; the duchess fell in love 
with him and offered marriage, and Ber- 
toldo, forgetful of Camiola, accepted the 
offer. The betrothed then presented 
themselves to the king, when Camiola 
exposed the conduct of Bertoldo. The 
king was indignant at the basenese, 
Aurelia rejected Bertoldo with scorn, 
Camiola took the veil. 

Maid of Mariendorpt (The), a 
drama by S. Knowles, based on Miss 
Porter's novel of The Villaye of Mfarien- 
dorpt (1838). The “maid” is Mecta, 
daughter of Mahldenau minister of 
Mariendorpt, and betrothed to major 
Rupert Roselheim. The plot is this: 
Mahldenau starts for Prague in search of 
Meeta's sister, who fell into some soldiers’ 
bands in infancy during the siege of Mag- 
debury. On enterin,: Prague, he is seized 
as aspy, and condemned to death. Meeta, 
bearing of his capture, walks to Prague 
to plead for his life, and finds that the 

overnor’s ‘“‘ daughter” is her lost sister. 
Tn vert storms the prison and releases 
Mahldenau. 


Maid of Norway, Margaret, daugh- 
ter of Eric ll. and Margaret of Norway. 
She was betrothed to ‘idward, son of 
Edward J. of England, but died on her 
passage (1290). 

Maid of Orleans, Jeanne d’Arec, 
famous for having raised the siege of 
Orleans, held by the English. The general 
tradition is that sbe was burnt alive as a 
witch, but this is doubted (1412-1431). 


Maid of Perth (Fuir), Catharine 
Glover, daughter of Simon Glover, the 
old glover of Perth. She kisses Henry 
Smith while asleep on St. Valentine's 
morning, and ultimately marries bim.— 
Sir W. Scott, Auir Mui of Perth (time, 
Henry IV.). 

Maid of Saragoza, Augustina, 
noted for her heroism at the siege of 
Saragoza, 1808 9.—See Southey’s //ts- 
tory of tae J’eninsular War. 


Maid of the Mill (The), an opera 
by Isaac Bickerstaff. Patty, the daugh- 
ter of Fairfield the miller, was brought 
up by lord Aimworth’s mother. At the 
death of lady Aimworth, Patty returned 
to the mill, and her father promised her 
in marriage to Farmer Giles; but Patty 
refused to m him. Lord Aimwo 
about the same time betrothed himself to 
Theodosia, the daughter of sir Harry 
Sycamore ; but the young lady loved Mr. 
Mervin. When lord Aimworth knew of 
this attachment, he readily vielded up his 
betrothed to the man of her choice, and 
selected for his bride Patty ‘‘ the maid of 
the mill” (1765). 


- Maid of the Oaks (The), a two-act 

drama by J. Burgoyne. Maria “the 
maid of the Oaks" 1s brought up by Old- 
worth of Oldworth Oaks as his ward, but 
is informed on the eve of her marriage 
with sir Harrv Groveby that she is Old- 
worth’s daughter. e under-plot is 
between sir Charles Dupely and lady Bab 
Lardoon. Dupely professed to despise 
all woinen, and lady Lardoon was ‘the 
princess of dissipation ;" but after they 
fell in with each other, Dupely confessed 
that he would abjure his creed, and lady 
Lardoon avowed that henceforth she 
renounced the world of fashion and its 
o1lies. 


Maid’s Tragedy (The). The ‘*maid” 
is Aspa’tia the troth-plight wife of Amin- 
tor, who, at the king's command, is made 
to marry Evad’ne (3 sy/.). Her death 
forms the tragical event which gives name 
to the drama.—Beaumont and Fletcher 
(1610). 

(The scence between Antony and Ven- 
tidius, in Dryden's tragedy of All for 
Inve, is copied from The Muid's B 
where ‘‘ Melantius” answers to Ven 
dius.) 

Maiden (The), a kind of guillotine, 
introduced into Scotland by the regent 
Morton, who was afterwards beheaded by 
it. The ‘‘maiden” resembled in form 
a painter's easel about ten feet high. 
The victim placed his head on a cross- 
bar some four feet from the bottom, kept 
in its place by another bar. In the inner 
edjres of the frame were grooves, in which 
slid a sharp axe weighted with lead and 





MALAGIGI. 


and receive a father’s blessing.—Moliere, 
Le Malade Imayinaire (1674), 
Malagi'gi, son of Buovo, brother of 
Aldiger at ving (of Clarmont’s race), 
one of Charlemagne's peace and cousin 
of Rinaldo. Being brought up by the 
fairy Orianda, he became o en- 
chanter.—Arioato, Oriandu J urioso (1516), 


Malagri'da ((Gobrie!), an Italian 





deauit and missionary to Brazil, who | 


was accused of conspiring apninst the 
king of Portugal (1689-1761). 
Lord Shelburne was nicknamed “ Mala- 


da.” He was a zealous oppositionist 
, ert lord S».rth's administration (1757- 
1805). 


* Do you know,” oid Goldunith to bis lordship, "that 

perer could cunceive why they enll you * Malazrida.” for 

ids wae a very pul cortofaman”.. He mnt 

@o sag, ae Malogrida wos good sort of @ man,” be ovoid 
not conclve bow It become a word of reproach.—W, 


Mal 
tune, and peerish from infirmitics. He 
tries to make every one as sour and dis- 


contented as himself.—Sir W. Scott, 
Fortunes of Nigel (time, James I.). 

Malayrovther (Jfalachi), sir Walter 
Scott, “On the proposed change of 
currency, etc." (1826), 

Lockhart says that these “ diatribes pro- 
duced in Scotland # sensation not inferior 
to that of the Drapicr's letters in Ire- 
land.” They came out in the Edinburgh 
Weekly Journal, 

Malambru'no, 4 giant, first cousin 
to queen Mayuncia of Candaya. “ Ex- 
elusive of his natural barbarity, Malam- 
bruno was also a wizard,” who enchanted 
don Clavijw and the princess Antono- 
masia—the former into o crocodile of 
some unknown metal, and the latter into 
a monkey of brass, The giant sent don 
Quixote the wooden horse, and was a 
ane. i “by the simple attempt of the 

night to disenchant the victims of his 
displeasure."—Cervantes, Dun Quirote, 
Tl. ii. 4, & (1015). 


Malaprop (.Wrs.), wot and guardian 
to Lydia Languish the heiress, Mrs. 
Malaprop ects her cap at sir Lucius 
O'Trigver, ‘‘a tall Trish baroot," and 
corres; onda with him under the name of 
Delia, Sir Lucius fancies it is the niece, 
and, when he discovera bis mistake, de- 
Clines the honour of marriage with the 
anot. Mra. Malaprop is 3 synonym for 
those who misapply words without mis- 
pronennerg them. Thus Mrs, Malaprop 





| talke of a Derbyshire 


agrowther (Sir JMfunyjo), a | 
erabbed old courtier, soured by ee | 


MALBROUGH. 








putrefaction, as 
allegory of the Nile, a ‘esheets Vandy 
she requests that no delusions to the 3 
folie e, +e of fying with the utmost 
icity, and would say precimiale one 
down the prejudice instead of “ precipice.” 
—Sheridan, The Hivals (1775). 

Mr. Malaprop's mistakes in what she calls “ortho 
deoxy,” have often been objected to as Lop from ® 
aalia "nae otal pp EE : on the banks of ike 
Wiis.” will be ackmowbedged ox [pescedsabte nitehelL—T, Moore 

Malbecco, “a cankered, crabbed 
earl,” very wealthy and very miserly, 
husband of a young wife named Hel'i- 
nore (8 syi.), of whom he is very jealous, 
and not without cause. Helinore, falling 
in love with sir Paridel her sets 
fire to the closet where her husband keeps 
his treasures, and elopea with Paridel, 
while Malbecco stops to put out the 
flames. This done, Malbecco starts in 
pursuit, and finds that Paride] has tired 
of the dame, who has become the satyrs’ 
dairy-maid, He soon finds her out, but 
she declines to return with him ; he, 
in desperation, throws himeelf from a 
rock, bat receives no injury. Malbeceo 


| then creeps into oa cave, fecds on toads 


and frogs, and lives in terror lest the 
rock should crush him or the sea over- 
whelm him, ‘Dying, he lives on, and 
can never dic,” for he is no longer Mal- 
beeco, ‘but JeaLousy is hight."— 
Spenser, Faéry Queen, iii. 9, 10 (1590). 
Malbrough’, corrupted in English 
into Murlbrvok, the hero of a popular 
French song. Generally thought to refer 


| to Joho Churchill duke of Marlborough, 


s0 famous for his victories over the French 
in the reign of Louis XIV. ; but no inci- 
dent of the one corresponds with the life 
of the other, The Malbrough of the 
song was evidently o crusader or ancient 
baron, who died in battle; and his lady, 
climbing the castle lower and looking 
out for her lord, reminds one of the 
mother of Sisera, who “ looked out at » 


window, and cried through the —, 


Why is his chariot so ary, ty coming 
Why tarry the wheels of his chariots? 
. «+ Havethey not sped? Have they not 
divided the apoil?” (./udycsv. 26-00), The 
following are the words of the song :— 
“Maliruogh is gowe fo the wera Ab! when will be 
nium?” “He will come -heck ly Master, indy, oF ot 


Latest, Trinity." “WH t in p cr 
% ‘ Malbrough has uot returnel.” "The 








° MALFY. 


MALVOLIO. 





tor, “houseless, friendless, defenceless, 
and forlorn." The wants of Malfort are 
temporarily relieved by the bounty of 
Frank Heartall and the kindness of Mrs. 
Cheerly “the soldier's daughter.” The 


return of Malfort, senior, from India, | 
nence.— | 


restores his son to ease and 
Cherry, The Soldier's Daughter (1804). 


Malfy (Duchess of), twin-sister of 
Ferdinand duke of Calabria. She fell 
in love with Antonio, her steward, and 
gave thereby mortal offence to her twin- 
Erother Ferdinand, and to her brother 


the cardinal, who employed Bosola to | 
her.—John Webster, Duchess of | 


‘Malfy (1618). 


, a mythical king of Britain, 
noted for nis beauty and his vices, his 
mounificence and his strength Malg 
added Ireland, Iceland, Gothland, the 
Orkneys, Norway, and Dacia to his 
dominions.—Geoffrey, Jritish History, 
xi. 7 (1142). 

Pron Demick then Lotuoel ond vensines Wareag wun, 
falzed Iceland for hoz. nad Ones 


Malherbe (2 syi.). If any one asked 
Malherbe bia opinion about any French 
words, he always sent him to the street 
porters at the Port au Foin, saying that 
they were his “‘ masters in lanyguage,"— 
Racan, Vie de Malherbe (1630). 

It is eaid that Shakespeare read his 
oy to an oyster-woman when he wished 
to koow if they would suit the popular 
taste. 


Mal'inal, brother of Yuhid'thiton, 
When the Az'tecas declared war against 
Madoe and his colony, Malinal cast in 
his lot with the White strangers. He 
was a noble youth, who received two 
arrow-wounds in his leg while defending 
the white women; and being unable to 
stand, fought in their defence on his 
knees, When Malinal was disabled, 
Amal'abta canght up the princess, and 
ran off with her; but Mervyn the “young 

ro" (in fact, a girl) struck him on the 
a with a bill-hook, and Malinal, 
ctawling to the spot, thrust his sword in 
the villain'’s groin and killed him.— 
Southey, Wudve, ii. 16 (1805), 

Mal'iom. Mahomet is so called in 
some of the old romances. 


“Bend five, end sit agaist mei By Maliom | | oreer 
FO take thee all.”-- Mierairas, 


Malkin, The Maid Marian of the 


Preertish, 
| (ranches reid me; but thy dath come ike 








Put on the af onder and 
Or you must saaory Malkin the Mag Lady. 
Thomas (0619), 


donnie 
Cut : a 
thief and receiver of stolen ohn 
Day, in 1610, wrote “a booke called The 
Prancks 5 es Mall the 
Bankside, with : 


Mal-Orchol, king of Fotrfed (an 
island of Scandinavian). Being asked 
Ton-Thormod be gs im his ter in 
marriage, he refused, and the rejected 
suitor made war on him. Fingal eent his 
son Ossian to assist Mal-Orchol, and on 
the very day of his arrival he took Ton- 
Thormod prisoner. Mal-Orchol, in grati- 
tude, now offered Ossian his daughter in 
marriage ; but Ossian pleaded for Ton- 


 Thormod, and the marriage of the lady 


with her original suitor was duly solem- 
nized, (The daughter's name was Oina- 
Morul.)—Ossian, (ma-Aforw, 

Maltworm, a tippler. Similarly, 
bookworm means a sludent. 

Gocdah@L | am joloed with no foot-land-eabers (fesd- 
of thes .. . purplehucl maliwurms; bet with nobiligy, 
—Siakespeare, 1 Momry /F. net Li me 2 (L887), 

Mal'venu, Wait Fels porter. —S pen 
ser, Fugry Queen, i. 4 (1590). 


Malvi'na, daughter of Toscar. She 
was betrothed to Oscar son of Ossian ; 
but be was slain in Ulster by Cairbar 
before the day of marriage arrived.— 
Temuora, 1. 


was & lovely tree im thy pre Oscar, with a¥ my 


Malvoisin (Sir Albert de), a pre- 
ceptor of the Knights Templars, 

Sir Philip de Malooisim, one of the 
knights challenyers at the tournament.— 
Sir W. Scott, Feankus (time, Richard I.). 


Malvo'lio, Olivia's steward, When 
he reproves sir Toby Belch for riotous 
living, the knight says to him, ‘ Dost 
thou think, because thou art Virtuous, 
there shall ba no more cakes and ale? 








MAN, 


to be the fairy Gialout, who gave him for 
his humanity the power of joining and 
mending whatever was broken. He 
mended a pies egg Te ink — 
into twenty pieces, and so ec at 
the egg nA hatched. He also menial 
in » moment a ship 
wrecked and broken in a violent storm,— 
T. 8. Guenlette, Chinese Tales (‘ Corcad 
and His Four Sons," 1723), 
Man. His descent accordi 
Darwinian theory: (1) The of 
gacidians, a marine mollusc; (2) fish 
lowly orgsnined, as the lancelet; (3 
epi 4 
6 


to the 


ganoids, lepidosiren, and other fish ; 

amphibians; (5) birds and reptiles; 

from reptiles we get the monotremaia, 
which connects reptiles with the mam- 
malin; (7) the marsupials ; (8) placental 
mammals; (9) lemuridw ; (10) simiids« ; 
(11) the New World monkeys called 
platyrhines, and the Old World monkeys 


called catarrhines; (12) between the catarr- | 


hines and the race of man the “ missing 
link” is placed by some; but others 
think between the highest organized ape 


and the lowest organized man the prada- 


tion is simple and easy, 

Moan (fale of), a corruption of main-a 
(‘little island”) ; Latinized into Menar- 
w. Caesar calls it “* Mon-a,” the Scotch 

unciation of mam-av; and hence 
comes “ Monalia™ for Menavia, 


Man (Races of). <According to the 
Bible, the whole human race sprang 
from one individual, Adam. Virey 
affirms there were two original pairs, 
Jacquinot and Latham divide the race 
into three primordial stocks; Kant into 
four ; Blamenbach into five; Buffon into 
aix; Llunter intu seven; Agassiz into 
eight; Iickering into eleven; Bory St. 
Vincent into fourteen; Desmoulina into 
sixteen ; Morton into twenty-two; Craw- 
furd into sixty ; and Lurke into sixty- 

ree. 


Man in Black (The), said to be 
meant for Goldsmith's father. A true 
oddity, with the tongue of a Timon and 
the heart of an uncle Tuby. Ile declaims 
aainat beyuara, but relieves every one 
he meets; he mdicules generosity, but 
would share his last cloak with the 
necdy.—Guldsmith, Citizen of the World 
(1749). 

** Washington Irving has a tale called 
The Man in Jilack, 


Man in the Moon (//s). Some 
®ay it ie the man who picked up a bundle 
26 








601 MAN OF BRASS. 


| of sticks on the sabbath day 
89-86). 





ay (Numb, xv. 
Danté saya it is Cain, and that 
Ge, Gaee puicenneall on, Ge comb’ 
he curse on : 1 
“ Thorns also and thistles shall it bring 
forth to thea" ((fen. iii. 18). Some any 
it is Endymion, taken there by Diana. 
The curse pronounced on 


was thia: ‘ ou sogneees not ‘Sun- 
day ‘on earth, you shall keep a perpetual 
' oon-day * in heaven.” This, of course, 


‘ roan” 


| is a Tentonic tradition. 


The bush of thorns, in the Schaumburg- 
lippé version, is to indicate that the man 
strewed thorns in the church path, to 
hinder people from attending mass on 


ys. 
Site Baths Cates with Reel at aires canton 


A North Frisian version gives oabdages 
instead of a faggot of wood. 

*,* There are other ET pee Pony | 
which may be mentioned “lhe Story 
the Hare and the Elephant.” In this 
story “the man in the moon” is a 
—Fantschatenira (a collection of San- 
skrit fables), 

Man in the Moon, a man who visits the 
Pea fr pgp ear Thomeon, 

anmudh or Human Nature Displayed on 
a Grand Scale (1789). 

Man in the Moon, the man who, by the 
aid of s magical glass, shows Charles 
Fox (the man of the Lar 99 Bickers, 
eminent contemporaries,—W. Thomson, 
Tie Man in the Moon or Travels into the 
Lunar Ieyions (1783). 

Man of Blood. Charles I. was so 
called by the puritans, because he made 
war on his parliament. The allusion is 
to 2 Sum, xvi. 7. 


Man of Brass, Talos, the work ot 
Hephzstos (Vulcan). lie traversed the 
Isle of Crete thrice a year. Apollo'nins 
( Argoneutica, iv.) says he threw rocks af 
the Argonauts, to prevent their landing. 
It is also anid that when o stranger was 
discovered on the island, Talos made him~ 
self red hot, and embraced the intruder to 
death. 








MANCIPLE'S TALE. 


erow which he taught to speak; it was 
white as down, and as big as a swan. 


He had also a wife, whom he dearly | 


loved. One day when he came home, 
the crow cried, ‘*Cuckoo, cuckoo 
cuckoo!” and Phebus asked the bird 
what it meant; whereupon it told the 
Sapshaeg his wife was unfaithful to him. 

bus, in his wrath, seized his bow, 
and shot his wife thro the heart; but 
to the bird he said, ‘‘ on thy tell- 
tale tongue! never more shall it brew 
mischief.” So he deprived it of the 
power of s , and its plum- 
age from white to black. Moral—Be no 
tale-bearer, but keep well thy tongue, and 
think upon the crow. 


Kep wel th pd think the crowe. 
Chaeser, Contorbury Tales, 17,2814 (1388), 

#,° This is Ovid's tale of ‘‘Coronis” 
in the Metamorphoses, ii. 548, etc. 

Manda’ne (3 sy/.), wife of Zamti the 
Chinese mandarin, and mother of Hamet. 
Hamet was sent to Corea to be brought 
up by Morat, while Mandané brought up 
Zaphimri (under the name of Etan), the 
orphan prince and only surviving repre- 
sentative of the royal race of China. 
Hamet led a party of insurgents against 
Ti’murkan’, was seized, and ordered to 
be put to death as the supposed prince. 
Mandané tried to save him, confessed he 
was not the prince; and Etan came for- 
ward as the real “orphan of China.” 
Timurkan, unable to solve the mystery, 
ordered both to death, and Mandané 
with her husband to the torture; but 
Mandané stabbed herself.—Murphy, The 
Orphan of China (1759). 

Mandane (2 syl.), the heroine of Mdlle. 
Scud’eri's romance called Cyrus the Great 
(1650). 

Manda’ne and 8Stati’ra, stock 
names of melodramatic romance. When 
@ romance writer hangs the world on the 
caprice of a woman, he chooses a Mandané 
or Statira for his heroine. Mandané of 
elassic story was the daughter of king 
Astvagés, wife of Cambgses, and mother 
of Cyrus the Great. Statira was daugh- 
fer of Darius the Persian, and wife of 
Alexander the Great. 


Man’'dansg, an Indian tribe of Dacote, 

in the United States, noted for their ski 

in horsemanship. 

Marks not the buffalo’s track, nor the Mandans’ dexterous 
horse-race. 


Longiellow, Beangeline 0%. 


608 
Manciple’s Tale. Phebus had a | 


ieee 





MANETTE. 


Mandeville, any one who 
the long-bow; a flam. Sir John 
deville | Maw’ deo], an 
ler, pu ed a narrative of his voyages, 





_ which abounds in the most extravagant 


fictions (1800-1872). 
Oh! he is a ir poly onan At sarstonapiy dae 
Foote, The tder, A GTeL 


deistical writer, author of The JV; 


Cninashad (170) Brey Thoughts on Be 


ligion (1712), of the Bees (1714), ete. 
(1670-1788). 
Man’'drabul’s Ofering, one tet 
os, havi a 
offered a iden-ram to Juno the dis- 


corer. ext year he offered a silver 
one, the third year a brasen one, and the 
fourth year nothing. | 
Mandrag’ora, a narcotic and love- 
philter. ds 
of the world, 


Which thou owedst : 
oct @1. se. 3 (2613). 


Mrs. Dead Pan, tt. 
Mandricardo, king of Tartary, son 
of Agrican. Mandricanto wore Hector’s 
cuirass, married Dord&lis, and was slain 
ingle combat.—Bojardo, 
(1495) ; Ariosto, Ore 


ceardo, a knight 
adventures are recorded by Barahona 
(Mandriccardo, ete., i. 70, 71). 


Manduce (2 sy/.), the idol Gluttony, 
venerated by the Gastrol’aters, a peo 
whose god was their belly. 

It is a monstrous 3... ite are Baw 

abe lit or Se ear ee 

of teeth, by the magic of twine, are made to 

jaws of Bt Clemen ars dregs os te Mark's provecalen ou en 
—Rabelais, Pa 

Manette (Dr.), of Beauvais. He 
had been imprisoned eighteen years, and 
had gradnally lost his memory. After 
his release he somewhat recovered it, 
but any train of thought connected with 
his prison life produced a relapee. While 
in prison, the doctor made shoes, and, 
whenever the relapse occurred, his desire 
cas cobbli See at 

ucie Manette ; polar 
haired, blue-eyed danghter of . Ma 
nette. She marries Charles Darnay. ~ 


Lacie Manette had a forehend with the singular eagaciiy 


lando Furioso (1516). 








MANLY. 










anti, 2 ie fas seuch—he sysens pais andl honest. 


Reach, Plain Seals inet trea 
T. Knight, Tee Monest TAleres. 


Manly (Colonel), a bluff, honest soldier, 
to whom honour is dearer than life. 


Tho hero of the drama.—Mrs. Centlivre, | 


The Beau's Duel (1703). 


Mann (Jfrs.), a dishonest, grasping 
woman, who kept a branch workhouse, 
where children were farmed. Oliver 
‘Twist was sent to her child-farm. Mrs. 
Mann systematically starved the children 
placed under her charge.—C, Dickens, 
Oliver T'wist (1837). 


Mannaia, dess of retribution. 
The word in [talian means “an axe.” 


All in a terriide moment cumne the blow 
That beat down Paolo's Tence, anded the 
O the foil, and brought Mannalsa on the 


BK. Browning, The Ring and the Soak, Ui. (date 
Of the story, Lei), 


‘Mannering ((y) or colonel Man- 


Mrs. Mannering (née Sophia Well- 
wood), wife of Guy Mannering. 

Julia Manneriny, daughter of Guy. 
She marries captain liertrain, “* Rather 
a hare-brained girl, but well deserving the 
kindest regards " (act i, 2 of the drama- 
tized version). 

Sir Paul Jfannerinj, uncle to Guy 
Mannering.—Sir W. Scott, Guy Manner- 
my (time, George Il.). 

«” Scott's tale of Guy Mannering has 
been dramatized by Daniel Terry. 


Mano’a, the fabulous capital of El 
Dora'do, the houses of which city were 
roofed with gold. El Dorado was anid 
to be situated on the west shore of lake 
Parime, at the mouth of a large river. 


Manon l'Eseaut, the heroine of a 
French novel entitled /listuire de Chevalier 
Desjrieuc et de Afunon Lescot, by A. F, 
Prévost (1733). Manon is the ‘fair mis- 
chief" of the story. Her charma seduce 
and ruin the chevalier des Gricux, who 
marries her, After marriage, the selfish 
mistress becomes converted into the faith- 
ful wife, who follows her husband into 
disgrace ‘and banishment, and dies by his 
aide in the wilds of America, 

The object of this novel, like that 
of Be Dunw ave Cumeélias, by Dumas fila 
(1844), le to show how true-hearted, how 
self-sacrilicing, how attractive, a jille de 
juw may be. 

Manri’ co, the supposed son of Azu- 
ce'na the pipay, but in renlity the son 
of Garzia (lrother of the conte di Luna), 
Leono’ra ia in love with him, but the 





count entertains a base passion for her, 
and, getting Manrico into his power, con- 

demns him to death. Leonora promises 
the count to give herself to him if he 
will spare the life of Manrico, He con- 
sents, but while he goes to relense his 


| “‘nephew,” Sag: sucks aged tea a 


ring and dies. Sarat a 
this, dies also,.—Verdi, Trosataré ( fan 
opern, 1853). 
Man’s, « fashionable coffee-house in 
Charles 1. 


ger 
ang (The om Hele aloo ew 
of Charlcn the 


“knight of Blaives.” 


Mansel [a Beene), lieutenant of 


the Tower of London, 


wens Manael, wite of sir Edward.—Sir 
W. Scott, Fortunes of Nigel (time, James 


1). 


Mansfield (Tie Miller of), «a hu- 
morous, Hon -natured countryman, who 
offered Henry VIII. hospitality when he 
had lost himself in a huntin a bed with 
The miller gave the king with 
his son Richard. Next morning, the 
courtiers were brought to the cottage by 
under-keepers, and 


ny! in Merry pin, 
koighted is host, wh o thus became sir 
John Cockle. He then oad him “* orer- 


seer of Sherwood Forest,” ) = sala 
of 1000 marks a yeat,—R. Dodasl 
King and the Miller of Mons eld (1 (1787). 

*,* In the ballad call Siig and 
the Miller of Mansfield, the king is Henry 
II., and there are several other points of 
difference between the ballad and the 
play. In the play, Cockle hears a gun 
tired, and goes out to look for poachers, 
when he ayn hold of the king, but, being 
satisfied that he is no poacher, he takes 
him home. In the ballad, the king out- 
rides his lords, » ete lost, and, meeting the 
miller, asks him @ nig cht’s mn So 
When the miller feels satiated wi 
face and bearing of tho stranger, he 
entertains him right hospitably. He 

ives him for supper & venison . 
but tells him on no account to | a 
king ““that they made free with his deer.” 
Another point of difference is this; In 
the play, the courtiers are seized by the 
under-keepers, and brought to Cockle’s 


| house; but in the ballad they track the 


kin and a before him next morni 
In the ding. tee king settles on air Joba 
Cockle 1000 marks ; in the ballad, £300 « 
year.—Percy, Aeliques, INI. ii. 20, 

(Of course, as Dodsley introduced the 
“firing of a gun,” be was obliged to 





es Te 


MARCELLIN DE PEYRAS. 607 


Chrysostom, the favourite of the Mery. i 
who died of disappointed hope, and t 
at ie wrote on his tombstone: 
* From Chrysostom's fate, learn to abhor 
Marcella, that common enemy of man, 
whose beauty and cruelty are both in 
the extreme."—Cervantes, Dun Quisote, 
I. ii. 4, 6 (1605). 

Marcellin de Peyras. The cheva- 
lier to whom the baron de Peyras gave 
up hie estates when he retired to Grenoble. 
De Peyras eloped with lady Ermestine, 
but soon tired of her, and fell in love with 
his cousin Margaret, the baron's daugh- 
ter.—E. Stirling, Zhe Gold-Mine or Dh 
Miller of Grenob @ (1854). 


Marcelli'na, daughter of Rocco 
erg of the State prison of Seville, She 

ll in love with Fidelio, her father’s 
servant ; but this Fidelio turned out to be 
Leonora, wife of the State prisoner Fer- 
nando Florestan,—Deethoven, Fidelio (an 
opera, 1791). 

Marcello, in Meyerbeer's opera of 
Les Hwyuenols, unites in marriage Valen- 
ti’na and Raoul (1836). 


Marcello, the pseudonym of the duchess 
of Castiglioné Colonna, widow of the 
duc Charles de Castiglion@ Aldiovandi. 
The best works of this noted sculptor 
are “ The Gorgon,” “‘ Marie Antoinette,” 
“‘ Hecate," and the “‘ Pythia” in bronze. 
Born 1837. 


Marcellus (¥. Clawdius), called 
“ The Sword of Rome." Fabius “* Cune- 
tator™ was * The Shield of Rome." 


Marcellus, an officer of Denmark, to 

whom the ghost of the murdered king ap- 

red before it presented itself to prince 
Hamilet.—Shakespeare, Hamiet (1596). 


Marchioness ( T'he), the half-starved 
girl-of-all-work, in the service of Samp- 
aon lirass and his sister Sally. She was 
so lonesome and doll, that it afforded ber 
relief to peep at Mr. Swiveller even 
through the kevhole of hiadoor. Though 
eo dirty and ill cared for, “the mar- 
chioness " was sharp-witted and cunning. 
Jt was Mr. Swiveller who called her 
the “‘marchioness," when she played 
cards with him, “‘because if seemed 
more real aod pleasant" to play with a 
marchioness than with a domestic slavy 
(ch. lvii.)< When Dick Swiveller was 
turned away and fell sick, the “ mar- 
chioness" nursed him carefully, and he 
afterwards married her.—C. Dickens, Zhe 
Vid Curwaity Shop (1840), 


Marchmon tilda), the 
fidante of Julia Mann —Sir W. 





MARDI-GRAS. 
: t (Miss Matilda), the cone 
Scott, Guy Mannering (time, II.). 

Marcian, armourer to count Robert 
of Paris.—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert of 
Paris (time, Rufus). 

Marck (William de ia) a French 
nobleman, called ‘*'The ild Boar of 
Ardennes" (Sanglier des Ardennes),—Sir 
Ww. Beats Quentin Durward (time, Edward 


Marecliffe (Theophilus), pseudonym 
of William Godwin (author of Caleb 
Williams, 1756-1886). 


MatrJomanic War, a war carried 
on by the Marcomanni, under the leader- 
ship of Maroboduus, who made himself 
master of Bohemia, etc. Maroboduug 
was defeated by Arminius, and his con- 
federation broken up (A.p. 20). In the 
second Christian century a new war broke 
out between the Marcomanni and the 
Romans, which lnsted thirteen years. In 
A.D. 180 peace was purchased by the 
Romans, and the war for o time ceased. 


Marcos de Obregon, the hero of a 


| Spanish romance, from which Lesage has 


borrowed very freely in his (il Slas,— 


| Vicente Espinel, Vida del Escudero Marcos 


de Obregon (1618). 


Marculf, in the comic mof Salo- 


| mon and Murewl/, w fool who outwits the 


Suge of Iarael by knavery and cunning. 
The earliest version of the poem extant 
ia a German one of the twelfth century. 


Marcus, son of Cato of Utica, a 
warm-hearted, impulsive young man, 
passionately in love with Lucia daughter 
of Lucias; but Lucia loved the more 
temperate brother, Portius. Marcus was 
slain by Cwsar's soldiers when they in- 
vaded Utica. 

Marcus fs furioms, wild in tls com 

I hear with o secret kolo of 

And tremble at hia rehemence of temper. 
Addison, Cato, L 1 (17D, 

Mardi-Gras (J), the last day of the 
carnival, noted io Paria for the travestie 
of » Roman precession marching to offer 
an ox in sacrifice tothe gods. The ox, 
which is always the “ prize" beast of the 
season, is decorated with gilt horns and 
fillet round ita head, mock priests with 
axes, etc., march beside it, a band with 
all sorts of tin instruments or instruments 
of thin brass follow, and lictors, ete., Ol 
uy the procession. 

Tous les ana on vient dela ville - 








MARGARET FINCH. 





Margaret Finch, queen of the 
gipsies. She was born at Sutton, in 

ent (1631), and finally settled in Nor- 
way. From a constant habit of sitting 
on the ground, with her chin on herkn 
she was unable to stand, and when 
was buried in a square box; 1740, aged 
109 years. 


Margaret Gibson, afterwards 
ealled atten, a famous Scotch cook, 
whu was employed in the palace of James 
I. She was born in the reign of queen 
Elizabeth, and died June 26, 1789, either 
186 or 141 years of age. 


et Lamburn, one of the 

ecrvants of Mary queen of Scots, who 
undertook to avenge the death of her 
royal mistress. For this end, she dressed 
in man's clothes and carried two pistols— 
one to shoot queen Elizabeth and the 
other herself. She had reached the 
garden where the queen was walking, 
when she accidentally dropped one of the 
pistols, was seized, carned before the 
queen, and frantically told her tale. 
fhen the queen asked how she expected 
to be treated, Margaret replied, ‘‘ A judge 
would condemn me to death, but it would 
be more royal to grant me pardon.” The 
queen did so, and we hear no more of 

Cc. 


Margaret Simon, daughter of Mar- 
tin Simon the miller of Grenoble; a 
brave, beautiful, and noble girl.—E. 
Stirling, The GWold-Mine or Miller of 
Grenoble (1854). 


Margaret Street, Portman Square, 
London. So called from Marteret 
only child of Edward second earl 
of Oxford and Mortimer. (See Brey- 
TICK.) 


Margaret of Anjou, widow of ki 
Henry ¥ I. of Kogieod She presents 
herself, disguised as a mendicant, in 
Strasburg Cathedral, to Philipson (s.¢, 
the earl of Oxford).—Sir W. Scott, Anne 
of Geerstein (time, Edward IV.). 


M t’s Ghost, a ballad by 
David Mallet (1724). William courted 
the fair Margaret, but jilted her; he 
promised love, but broke his promise ; 
said her face was fair, her lips sweet, and 
her eyes bright, but left the face to pale, 
the cyes to weep, and the maid to 
languish and die. Her ghost appeared 
to him at night to rebuke his hearticss- 
ness; and next morning, William left his 
Sei raving mad, hicd him to Maryaret's 





MARGHERITA DI VALOIS. 


grave, thrice called her by name, “ and 
never word spake more.” 





low be stuck up with Margaret's 

Ghost nat the walls of every cottages in the eoumizy. 

—L Bk Love in a Village (1763). 
Margaretta, a maiden attached te 


‘Sa stupid old man, because he was 

so she rap away from home and lived as 
a buallad-singer. Kobin emigrated for 
three years, and made his fortune. He 
was wrecked on the coast of Cornwall on 

is return, and met Margaretta at 

house of Farmer Crop his brother-in-law, 
when the acquaintance was renewed. 
(See No Sona, oo No Song 
no Supper (1754-1834). 


Margarit’ta (Donna), a Spani 
heiress, ‘‘fair, voung, and wolte 
marry that she may 
the more freely indulge her wantonness. 
She selects Leon for her husband, because 
she thinks him a milksop, whom she 
can twist round her thumb at pleasure; 
but no sooner is Leon married than he 
shows himself the master. By ruling 
with groat firmness and affection, he wins 
the esteem of every one, and the wanton 
coquette becomes a modest, devoted, and 
obedient wife.—Beaumont az.d Fl 
Rule a Wife and Have a Wife (1640). 
Marge Dame), the old nurse of 
lady Eveling Berenger “the betrothed.” 
—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Betrothed (time, 
Henry II.). 


Margheri’ta, a simple, uncultured 
irl, “of great fascination, scduced by 
‘aust. Margherita killed the infant of 
her shame, and was sent to jail for so 
doing. In jail she lost her reason, and 
was condemned to death. When Faust 
visited her in prison, and tried to per- 
suade her to fice with him, she refused. 
Faust was carried off by demons, and 
Margherita was borne by angels up 
heaven; the intended moral being, 
the repentant sinner is trium t.— 
Gounod, Fuust ¢ Maryherita (1859). 
Margheri'ta di Valois, daughter 
of Catherine de Medicis and Henri ITI. of 
France. She married Henri le Bearnais 
(afterwards Henri lV. of France). It was 
uring the wedding sclemnities of Mare 
herita and Henri that Catherine de 
fedicis carried out the massacre of the 
French huguenots. The bride was at a 
ball during this horrible slanghvere ° 
B 








MARIA. 
French, and although the marchioness 
had promised Maria in marriage to 
another, she consented to her woion with 
Tonto, who had risen to the rank of a 
field-officer. — Donizetti, La Figlia del 
: (an opera, 1540). 

val], daughterofcolonel 
lighted to Mr. Versatile, but 
just previous to the marriage Mr. Versa- 
tile, by the death of his father, came 
into a large fortune and baronetcy, The 
marri was deferred; Mr. (now sir 
George) Versatile went abroad, and became 
aman of fashion. They met, the altach- 
ment was renewed, and the marriage 
consummated. 
Sweetness and anile plays! opon her countenance 
She was the delight of ber friends the admiration of the 
wortd, and the coveted of every Lovers af fortune anal 





Maria 
Delaval. 


ry oe. 


heurt.—Holereft, He's Muck fu Mumma, v. 2 (17R0). 

Maria [Wivpixc], daughter of sir 
Jasper Wil ing. She is in love with 
Beaufort; and being promised in marriage 
against her will to Gieorge Philpot, dis- 

ts him purposely by her silliness. 
George refuses to marry her, and she 

ives heir hand to Beaufort.—Murphy, 

he Citizen (1757). 

Maria Thereea Panza, wife of 
Sancho Panza. She is sometimes called 
Maria, and sometimes Theresa,—Cer- 
vantes, Dun Quirote (1605). 


Foreé (Le). Sganarelle, 
a rich man of 64, promises marriage to 
Doriméne (83 sy/.), a girl under 20, but, 
having ecruples about the matter, consults 
his friend, two philosophers, and the 
gipeies, from none of whom can he obtain 
any practicable advice. At length, he 
overhears Dorimtne telling a young lover 


that she only marries the old man for his | 


money, and that he cannot live above a 
few months; so the old man goes to the 
father, and declines the alliance. On this, 
the father sends hia son to Sganarelle. 
The young man takes with him two 
swords, and with the utmost politeness 
and san)-froid requesis Mons. to choose 
one. When the old man declines to do 
so, the young man gives him a thorough 
drubbing, and again with the utmost 

liteness requests the old man to’ make 

is choice. On his again declining to do 
eo, he is again beaten, and at last con- 
sents to ratify the marriage.—Molibre, Le 
Muriaje Forvd (1664). 


Mariamne (4 sy/.), « Jewish princess, 
daughter of Alexander and wife of 
Herod ‘the Great.” 


611 


Marianint was the | 





MARIANA. 


mother of Alexander and Aristobu'lua, 
both of whom Herod put to death in a 
fit of jealousy, and then fell inte a state 
of morbid madness, in which he fancied’ 
he saw Mariamné and heard her asking 
for her sons, 

*,* This bas been made the subject 
of several tragedies: ¢.g. A. Hardy, 
Morianne (1623); Pierre Tristan |'E 
mite, Mariamne (1640); Voltaire, 
Mariamne (1724). 


Marian, “' the Muses’ only darling,” 
is ret countess of Cumberland, 
sister of Anne countess of Warwick. 

Fair Marian, the Muses’ only darling, 

a oe 
Bpemer, Cola Cloat's Come Homa Again (1595). 
Marian, “the parson's maid," in love 

with Colin Clout who loves Cicely. 
Marian sings a ditty of dole, in which 
she laments for Colin, and saya how he 
ty her once a knife, but ‘‘Woe is me! 
or knives, they tell me, always sever 
love."—Gay, fastorals, ii, (1714). 


Marian, ‘the daughter” of Robert a 
wrecker, and betrothed to Edward a 
young sailor, She was fair in person, 
loving, and holy. During the absence of 
Edward at sea, a storm arose, and Robert 
went to the coast to look for plunder, 
Marian followed him, and in the dusk 
saw some one stab another, She thought 
it was her father, but it was Black 
Norris. Her father being taken u 
Marian gave evidence against him, an 
the old man was condemned to denth. 
Norris now told Marian he would eave 
her father if she would become his wife. 
She made the promise, but was saved 
the misery of the marriage by the arrest 
of Norris for murder.—s. Knowles, Tie 
Dawyiter (1836), 


Marian'a, a lovely and lovable lady, 
betrothed to Angelo, who, during 


| absence of Vincentio the duke of Vienna, 


acted as his lord deputy. Her —— re 
to the duke for Angelo are wholly un- 
rivalled.— Shakespeare, Meusure for Mea- 
sure (1603). 

Timid and shrinking before, she does not now walt to 
te encourgel in ber mit. She bb instant and lope 
tunate, Bie dows not resson with the duke; she begs, 
ehe boplore —K. G. White 

Mariana, sister of Ludovi'co Sforza 
duke of Milan, and wife of Francesco 
his chief minister of state.— Maasinger, 
The Duke of Milan (1622). 


Muriana, daughter of lord Charney; 
taken prisoner by the English, and in 








MARIE. 


Caermarthen).—Spenser, Fairy Queen, 
fii. 8 (1590), 


Marie (Countess), the mother of Ul'- 
ricn (a wove-daughter), the father of 
Ulrica being Ermest de Frdberg, “ the 
ynigoner of State.” Marie married count 
W'Osborn, on condition of his ubtaining 
the acquittal of her lover Ernest de Frid- 
berg ; but the count broke his promise, 
and even attempted to get the prisoner 
amothered in his dungeon, His villainy 
being made known, the king ordered him 
to be executed, and Ernest, being set at 
liberty, duly marricd the countess Marie, 
Stirling, The Prisuner of State 
(137). 

Marie de Brabant, daughter of 
Jlenni IJ. due de Brabant. She married 
Mhilippe fe /fardi, king of France, and 
was accused by Labrosse of having poi- 
soned Philippes son by his former wife, 
Jean de Brabant defended the queen's 
mnocence by combat, and being the 
victor, Labrosse was hung (1260-1821), 

Aneelot has made this the ewbject of 
an historical poem called Marie de /rabant, 
in aix chanta (1825). 


Marie Kirikitoun, a witch, who 
prow ised to do a certuin task for a Inasie, 
in onler that she might win a husband, 
provided the lasaic either remembered the 
witcha name for a vear and a day, or 
submitted te any punishment she might 
chime te inflict. The lassie was marred, 
and forrot the witch's name; but the fay 
was heard singing, “* Houpa, houja, Marie 
Kirikitoun! Nobody will remember my 
nawe.” The lassie, being able te tell the 
witch's name, waa no mure troubled.— 
Basque Leona, 

Grimm has o similar tale, but the name 
is Rumpel-stilzchen, and the song waa: 
Witte dreams my dainty diame, . 
Fitiipes let Lie Lie Ls ag imaeial, 

Mari'na, daughter of ler'irlés prince 
of Tyre, bern at sea, where her mother 
Thais'a, os it was supposed, died in 
giving lwr tarth. V'rincee Periclés en- 
truste:l the mfant te Cleon (covernor of 
Tarsus) and his wife Diunys'ia, who 
brought her up execllently well, and she 
lewame moet hichly aeeomplished ; but 
When grown te budding wornnhood, 
Tiionvsia, out af jealousy, emploved 
Letnine (aes) te murder her. Leenine 
took Marina to the coast with this intent, 
but the outenm=t was seized by pirates, and 
soli at Moetaliry: 48 «2 aluve, Ilere Pen- 
Clos landed on lis vevape from 'lnrsus to 
Tyre, nod Marina was introduced to him 





I 
a 
"i da 





618 


==. 


to chase away his melancholy. 


the ‘‘ lily-hand 








MARINI. 





She told 
him the story of her life, and he perceived 
at once that she was his daughter. 
Marina was now betrothed to Lysimachus 
governor of Metalin¢é; but, before the 
espousals, went to visit the shrine of 
Diana of Ephesus, to return thanks to the 
goddess, and the priestess was discovered 
to be Thaisa the mother of Marina.— 
Shakespeare, Pericles Prince of Tyre 
(1608). 


Mari’na, wife of Jacopo Fos’cari the 
ions son.—Byron, The Two Foscari 
1820). 


Marinda or Maripan, the fair con- 
cubine of Haroun-al-Raschid. 


Marine (The Female), Hannah Snell 
of Worcester. She was present at the 
attack of Pondicherry. Itimately she 
left the service, and opened a public- 
house in Wapping (London), but still 
retained her male attire (born 1723). 


Mar‘inel, the beloved of Florimel 
“the Fair.” Marinel was the son of 
black-browed Cym’vent (daughter of Ne- 
reus and Dumarin), and allowed no one 
to pass by the rocky cave where he lived 
without doing battle with him. When 
Marinel forbade Bntomart to pass, she 
replied, ‘‘I mean not thee entreat to 
pass ;" and with her spear knocked him 
** grovelling on the ground.” His mother 
with the sea-nyimphs, came to him; and 
Liaygore,” who knew 
leechcraft, feeling his pulse, said life 
was not extinct. So he was carried to 
his mother's bower, ‘‘deep in the bottom 
of the sea,” where Tryphon (the sea-goda’ 
physician) soon restored him to perfect 
health. One day, Proteus asked Marinel 
and his mother to a banquet, and while 
the young man was sauntering about, he 
heard a female voice lamenting her hard 
lot, and saying her hardships were brought 
about for her love to Marinel. The young 
man discovered that the person was 
Florimel, who had been shut up in a 
dungeon by Proteus for rejecting his 
suit ; so he got a warrant of release from 
Neptune, and married her.—Spenser, 
Fucry Queen, iii. 8; iv. 11, 12 (1590, 
1506), 

Mari'ni (J. B.), called Le cavalier 
Murin, born at Naples. He was a poet, 
and is known by his poem called Adonis 
or 1,’ Adone, in twenty cantos (1623). The 
poem is noted for its description of the 
‘*Garden of Venus.” 

Uf the reader will... read ever Artosto’s pletuse of 











MARLBOROUGH. 
Marlborough (The duhe of), John 
Churchill. He sath called til Relr 


'Turenne, Le Bel Anylais (1650-1722). 
(See MaLnrouan, p. 597.) 


Marlow (Sir Charles), the kind- 
hearted old friend of squire Hardcastle. 

Young Marlow, son of sir Charles. 
** Among women of reputation and virtue 
he is the modestest man alive; but his 
acquaintances give him a very different 
character among women of another 
stamp” (act i. 1). Having mistaken 
Hardcastle’s house for an inn, and Miss 
Hardcastle for the barmaid, he is quite 
at his ease, and makes love freely. 
When fairly caught, he discovers that 
the supposed ‘‘inn” is a private house, 
and the sup barmaid is the squire’s 
daughter; but the ice of his shyness 
being broken, he has no longer any 
difficulty in loving wae A to his 
station.— Goldsmith, She Stoops to Conquer 


(1778). 

When Goldsmith was between 16 and 
17, he set out for Edgworthstown, and 
finding night coming on, asked @ man 
which was the ‘‘ best house ” in the town— 
meaning the best inn. The man pointed 
to the house of sir Ralph Fetherstone {or 
Mr. Fetherstonc), and Oliver, entering the 
parlour, found the master of the mansion 
sitting at a good fire. Oliver told him he 
desired to pass the night there, and 
ordered him to bring in supper. ‘“ Sir 
Ralph: knowing his customer, humoured 
the joke, which Oliver did not discover 
till next day, when he called for his bill. 
(We are told in Notes and Querics that 
Ralph Fetherstone was only .r., but his 
grandson was sir Thomas.) 


Marmion. Lord Marmion was be- 
trothed to Constance de Beverly, but he 
jilted her for lady Clare an heiress, who 
was in love with Ralph de Wilton. The 
lady Clare rejected lord Marmion’s suit, 
and took refuge from him in the convent 
of St. Hilda, in Whitby. Constance took 
the veil in the convent of St. Cuthbert, 
wn Holy Isle, but after a time left the 
convent clandestinely, was captured, 
taken back, aud buried alive in the walls 
of a deep cell. In the mean time, lord 
Marmion, being sent by Henry VIII. on 
an embassy to James IV. of Scotland, 
topped at the hall of sir Hugh de Heron, 
who sent a pene as his guide. On his 
return, lord Marmion commanded the 
abbess of St. Hilda to release the lady 
Clare, and place her under the charge of 
her kinsman, Fitcclare of Tantallon Hall. 


her royal master 


MARPHISA. 


Here she met the palmer, who was Ral 

de Wilton, and as lord Marmion was 

in the battle of Flodden Field, she was free 

to mary the man she loved.—Sir W. 
tt, Marmion (1808). 


Marmion (Lord), « aescendant of 
Robert de Marmion, who obtained from 
William the Conqueror the manor of 
Scrivelby, in Lincolnshire. This Robert 
de Marmion was the first royal champion 
of England, and the office remain 
the family till the reign of Edward I., 
when in default of male issue it passed to 
John Dymoke, son-in-law of Philip Mar- 
mion, in whose family it remains still. 

Ma’ro, Virgil, whose full name was 
Publius Virgilius Maro (n.c. 70-19). 

Ob, were it mine with sacred Maro's art 


To wake to sym the feeling heart, 
ones tie - ond mccrnfal vores te dame 
Then might I. ; ce 


Falconer, The Shipwreok, iii. 5 (1788). 

Mar’onites (3 syl.), a religious 
semi-Catholic sect of Syria, constantly 
at war with their near neighbours the 
Druses, a semi-Mohammedan sect. Both 
are now tributaries of the sultan, but 
enjoy their own laws. The Maronites 
number about 400,000, and the Druses 
about half that number. The Maronites 
owe their name to J. Maron, their founder ; 
the Druses to Durzi, who led them out of 
Egypt into Syria. The eseber his 

ronites resides at Kanobin ; the hakem 
of the Druses at Deir-el-kamar. The 
Maronites or ‘Catholics of Lebanon” 
oe from the Homes Catholics in 
scveral points, an ve & or peer 
arch of their own. In isto ‘the ruses 
made on them a horrible onsl 
which called forth the intervention 
Europe. 


Marotte (2 syl.), footman of Gor- 
gibus; a plain bourgeois, who hates affec- 
tation. When the fine ladies of the house 
try to convert him into a fashionable 
flunky, and teach him a little grand- 
eloquence, he bluntly tells them he does 
not understand Latin. 


Marette. Volld un laquals qual demande of vous 6¢es an 
logis, et dit que son maitre, vous venir voir. 
Madcion. Apprenes, sotie, & vous émoncer moles 
t Dites: Vollk un nécomaire qui demande al 
vous é(es en commodité d’étre visihies, 
Marotte. Je o’entends point le Lattn.—Moliice, Les 
Pricteuss Bid toutes, vil (1650). 


Maxpht sa, sister of Roge’ro, and a 

female knight of amazing prowess. 

was brought up by a magician, but being 

stolen at the age of seven, was sold to 

the king of Persia. When she was 18, 
assailed 


d her honours 








MAR’S YEAR. 





rolling itself up, the wounded spirit rose 
on the wind, and the island shook to its 
foundation. 


Mar’s Year, the year 1715, in 
which occurred the rebellion of the earl 
oft Mar. 

Anid uncle Jobn wha wedlock’: joys 
did desire. 


Sin Mar’s year 
R. Burns, Halteween, @. 


Marseilles’ Good Bishop, Henri 
Francois Xavier de Belsunce (1671-1775). 
Immortalized by his philanthropic diii- 
F509). in the plague at Marseilles (1720- 


Charles Borrom6o, archbishop of Milan 
a century previously (1576), was equally 
diligent and self-sacriticing in the plague 
of Milan (1538-13584). 
tot Jobn Lawrence, lord mayor of 

ndon during the great plague, su 
ported 40, 9008 dismissed servants, an and 

eserves immortal honour. 

Darwin refers to Belsunce and Law- 

rence in his Loves of the Plants, ii. 433. 


Marshal Forwards, Blucher ; so 
called for his dash in battle, and rapidity 
of his movements, in the campaign of 
1813 (1742-1819). 


Marsi, a part of the Sabellian race, 
noted for mayic, and said to have been 
descended from Circé. 

Mareis vi quadam genitall datrm, ut 
lentorum domitores aliit, et Incantationibus 
encels faciant suedelarum mira. —Cellius, xvi 1 

Marsig‘lio, a Saracen king, who 
plotted the attack upon Roland, ‘‘ under 
the tree on which Judas hanged himself.” 
With a force of 600,000 men, divided 
into three companies, Marsi; wlio attacked 
the paladin in Roncesv alles, and over- 
threw him ; but C harlemagme, coming up, 
routed the Saracen, and hanged him on 
the very tree under which he planned the 
attack.—Turpin, Chronicle (1122). 


Marsilia, bears up 
Cynthia's train,” is the marchioness of 
Northampton, to whom Spenser dedicated 
his Duphnaida, This lady was Helena, 
daughter of Wolfgangus Swavenburgh, & 

wede. 


Ne Iran praiseworthy ts Marsilia, 
Beet known by bearing up great Cynthia's train, 
She ls the pattern of true wumanhead . 
Worthy next after Cynthia (yucon Eltsadeth} to tread, 
As she is next ber in nobillty. 
Spenser, Colin Clout's Come Home Agatn (1596). 


Mar’syas, the Phrygian flute-player. 
He challenged Apollo to a contest of 
skill, but being beaten by the god, was 
dayed alive for his presumption. 


virn- 
banumque 


6 “who 





617 


+, EE eee 


MARTHA. 


aD 


Mar'tafax 

ay .), two famous rat ind bought up etre 

eomtece DeAus Fuiry Tales (the 
Yomtesse uno 

White Cat,” 1682). >” ( 


Marta’no, a great coward, who stole 
the armour of Gryph on, and presented 

himself in it before king Nerandi'no, 
Having received the honours due to the 
owner, Martano quitted Damascus with 
Origilla; but Aquilant unmasked the 
Villain, and he was 1 (dks. vill, 
ix.).—Ariosto, Orlando (1516). 


Marteau. des  Heretiques, 
Pierre d’Ailly; also called L’Aigie de de ia 
France (1850-1420). 


Martel (Charles), Charles, nateral 
son of Pépin d’Héristal. 
Colli de, Plancy says that this 


plac mayor" 
artel” use he :martelé 
mered ") the Saracens under 
Rahman in 732, but became his patron 
saint was Jfartellus (or St. Murtih).— 
Bibliothéque des Leéye 
Thomas Delf, in his translation of 
Chevereul’s Principles o Harmony, clon, 
les 


of Colours (1847), signs himself ‘ 


Martext (Sir Oliver), a vicar in 
oe 8 comedy of ‘As You Like i 
(1 ° 


sister to ‘‘The Scornful 
Lady ” (no name given).—Beaumont and 
F letcher, The Scornful Lady (1616). 


Martha, the servant-girl at Shaw's 
Castle.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan's Well 
(time, George IIT.). 


Martha, the old housekeeper at Osbal- 
distone Hall.—Sir W. Scott, Rob Roy 
(time, George I.). 


Martha, daughter of Ralph and Louise 
de Lascours, and sister of Diana de Las- 
cours. When the crew of the Urania 
rebelled, Martha, with Ralph de Lascours 
(the captain), Louise de Lascours, and 
Barabas, were put adrift in @ re on and 
cast on an iceberg in ‘‘ the Frozen 
The iceberg broke, Ralph and Louise 
were drowned, Barabas wos picked np by 
a vessel, and ‘Martha fell into the 
of an Indian tribe, who fare her the 
name of Orgari’ta (‘‘ withered corn”). 
She married Carlos, bat as he married 
under a falsc name, the marriage was 
illegal, and when Carlos was given up te 





MARTIN'S SUMMER. 


619 





MARY GRAHAM. 





certainly come when thy sins or faults 
will be chastised.” 


Martin’s Summer (&.), halcyon 
days; a time of prosperity ; fine weather. 
L'été de & Martin, from October 9 to 
November 11. At the close of autumn 
we generally have a month of magnificent 
summer weather. 


Amigned is 4 to be the English scourge. .. 
Gines I have entered into these wara. 
Shakespeare, 1 Henry V/. act 1. so. 8 (1088). 


*,* Also called ‘ St. Luke’s Summer.” 
Martival (Stephen de), a steward of 


the field at the tournament.—Sir W. Scott, 
foanAce (time, Richard I.). 


Martivalle (Martius Galeotti), astro- 
loger to Louis XI. of France.—Sir W. 


Martyr Kin The), Henr 
buried a: Windsor a Kaward 1V 


Here o’e the Martyr a rl. 
yy Povo, Sopetrat fas spe ward | iv. “aes 
The grave ouite sites whore ves the o grave Ol 
mingled lie the oppremor and 


VI., 


Ant Pope. 
Martyr King (The), Charles I. of 
England 1600, 1625-1649). 


VI. of France is also called 
Lowe" “the Martyr” (1754, 1774-1798). 


Martyrs to Science. 

Claude Louis count Berthollet, who 
tested on himself the effects of carbonic 
acid on the human frame, and died under 
the experiment (1748- 182: 2). 

Giordano Bruno, who was burnt alive 
for maintaining that matter is the mother 
of all things (1550-1600). 

Galileo, who was imprisoned twice by 
the Inquisition for maintaining that the 

moved round the sun and not the 
sun round the earth (1564-1642). 
And scores of others. 


Marvellous Boy (Tie), Thomas 
Chatterton (1752-1770). 
pat as ea 
ordeworth. 


Marwood (Alice), daughter of an 
old woman who called herself Mrs. Brown. 
When a mere girl, she was concerned in 8 
burglary and was transported. Carker, 
manayer in the firm of Dombey | and Son, 
seduced her, and both she and her mother 
determined on revenge. Alice bore a 
striking resemblance to Edith (Mr. Dom- 
bey’s second wife), and in fact they were 
cousins, for Mrs. Brown was ‘‘ wife” of 
the brother-in-law of the Hon. Mrs, 


‘and jealousy.” 


Skewton (Edith’s mother).—C. ‘Dickens, 
Dombey and Son (1846). 

Marwood (Mistress), jilted Fainall 
and soured st the whole tale 9ex. 
She says, “ have done hating those 
vipers—men, acd am now ¢ come to manyingt to 
them ;” but she thinks of 
keep her husband en the mack E 

Congrev 
of the World (1700). " “ 
, the pretty housemaid of the 
porehiptul al the mayor of of Ipewich. (Ni 
kins). When Arabella Al.en marries nh 
Winkle, Mary enters her service; but 
eventually marries Sam Weller, and lives 
at Dulwich as Mr. Pickwick's house- 
Craney. .—C. Dickens, The Pickwick Papers 

Mary, niece of Valentine and his sister 
Alice. In love with Mons. Thomas.— 
(ie and Fletcher, Mons. Thomas 


Mary. The "s Marys, four young 
ladies of quality, of the same age as 
Mary afterwa *‘queen of Scots.” 


They embarked with her in 1548, on 
board the French galleys, and were des- 
tined to be her playmates in childhood, 
and her companions when she grew up. 
eir names were Mary Beaton (or 
Bethune), Mary Livingston (or Lewson), 
Mary Fleming (or Flemyng), and 
Seaton Seyton). 


Setun or 
*,.* Mary Carmi has no in 
authentic hu history, although an ballad 
aays: 
This night etree bat ie ; 


And 
*." One of Whyte Melville's novels is 
called The Queen's Marys. 


Mary Anne, a slang name for the 

illotine ; also called L’ubbaye de monte- 
a-reyret (* the mountain of mournful 
ascent”). (See ManiaNnxeE.) 


Mary Anne, a generic name fora secret 
republican society in France. (See Ma- 
RIANNE.)—B. Disraeli, Lothair. 


Mary Graham, an orphan adopted 
by old Martin Chuzzlewit. She eventu- 
ally married Martin Chuzzlewit the 
— and hero of the tale. 


The young anid the old “hs 
© Hy ee bond and edecated. ot, yen 








MARY STUART, 





_ hy CoM, Asp she wy only ma | here 
they «4 ees oath not to lee her o sitpeee @han T 
Me: eit while TF live, 1 make her an ant aligns, 
nul cient in its amauct, and yet not aint“ — 
C. Wickens Moertin CAass/ewis, O11. (126). 


Mary Stuart, an historical tragedy 
by J. Haynes (1840). The subject is 


the desth of David Kizzio. 

*.” Schiller bas taken Mary Stuart 
for the mune tofatrgedy. P, Lebrim 
turned the German drama into a French 
play. Sir W. Scott, in The Abbot, has 
taken for his subject the Hight of Mary 
to England. 

Mary Tudor. Victor Mogo has a 
tragedy so called (1833), and Tennyson, in 
1878, issued a play entitled Queen Mary, 


an epitome of the reign of the Todor 


Marv. 

Mary and Byron. The “Mary” of 
lord Hyron was Miss Chaworth Both 
were under the guardianship of Mr, 
White, Miss Chaworth married Joho 
Musters, and lord Byron married Misa 
Milbanke; both equally unfortunate. 
Lord Byron, in The Dream, refers to his 
love-offuir with Mary Chaworth (See 
p- 140.) 

Mary in Heaven (7s) and Highland 
Mury, lyrics addressed by Robert Burns 
to Mary Campbell, between whom and 
the powt there existed a strong attach- 








fer the worl alopted. For o jou oF ter ae tee 


| rbela 


MASANIELLO, 
Schiller has taken Mary Stuart far 


eubject of his bese trageay soi F Lr 
bronght owt in France a French 
thereof (1729-1807), 





and pedtical. caomplisieh arae, Menta 
a 


worn was paid Lo Mary queen 
y 5 eign: ma i sia amie Nei 
a the merm is 


phan Mary means the 

-, spall = of Feasce,” when ea mar- 
soa meang the “ 

asd the stare that shot liar 


emeans “the prigces.w 
on earn grace the ee 
BI ey; A 
And heard  merencid, mh Gudyhoa'a Banal, 


Un Martane mach dubort mre a breath, 
eee eee 
To baw (he em-inaid's oe 
Act U. om 1 (100m, 
These “stars” wore the earl of North- 
umberland, the carl of Westmoreland, and 
the duke of Norfolk, 


Mary the Maid of the Inn, & 
delight and sunshine of the parish, about 
to be marned to Richard, an idle, worth- 
leas fellow. One autumn night, two 
fuests were drinking at the inn, and one 
remarked he should not much lke to co 
to the abbey on such a nicht. “Jl 
wager that Mary will zo,” said the other, 








MASCARILLE. 





631 





_ MATABRUNE, 





it was taken out and interred with much 
eeremony and pomp. When Fenella 
beard of her brother's death, she threw 
herself into the crater of Vesuvius, = 
ee Auber has an opera on the subject 
1831 


, the libretto by Scribe. Caraffa | 


josen the same subject for an opera 
previously. 

Mascarille (3 syl.), the valet of La 
Grange. In order to reform two usilly, 
romantic girls, La Grange and Du Croisy 
introduce to them their valets, as the 


* marquisof Mascarille" andthe‘ viscount | 


of Jodelet.” The girls are taken with their 
“aristocratic visitors;" but when the 

e has cone far enouch, the masters 
enter and omidl the trick, By this 
means the girls are taught a most useful 
lesson, and are saved from any serious 
ill consequences.—Molicre, Les Precicuses 
Pidwules (1659). 

*.* Moliere had already introduced 
the same name in two other of bis 
comedies, L' Etowrdi (1053) and Le Depit 
Amoureur (1654). 

Masetto, a rustic engaged to Zerlina; 
but don Giovanni intervenes before the 
wedding, and deludes the foolish girl 
inte believing that he means te make ber 
@ great lady and his wife.—Mozart, Don 
Ghotaani (libretto by L. da l’onte, 1787). 


Mask'well, the “double dealer.” 
He pretends tu love lady Touchwood, 
but it is ouly to make her a tool for 
breaking the attachment between Melle- 
font (2 sy/.) and Cynthia. Maskwell 
pretends brig ty fur Mellefont merely 
to throw dust in bis eyes respocting hia 
designs to carry off Cynthia, to whom 
Mellefunt is betrothed, Cunning and 
hypocrisy are Maskwell's substitutes for 
wisdor and honesty.—W, Congreve, The 
Double Dealer (1700), 


Mason (William), The medallion to 
this poet in Westminster Abbey wus by 
Racon. 


Mast (The Tulicst), The mainmast 
of the Merry Dun of Dorer was eo tall 
“that the boy who climbed it would be 

¥ with extreme age before he could 
Feach deck aain."—‘vundinarian J/y- 
thology. 

Master (Tic). Goethe is called Der 
Meister (1749-1852), 

M Nr ede ed nal alee — be ao mercastic on 

Master Adam, Adam Billaut, the 
French poet (1602-1062), 


| im captain Macheath's gang. 





Master Humphrey, the narrator 
of the story called ‘The Old oe ae 4 
a 


Shop."—C. Dickens, Master 
Clock (1840), 

Master Leonard, grand-master of 
the nocturnal orgies of the demons. He 
presided at these aes op in the form of 
a three-horned goat with a black human 
face.— Middle Aye Demonology. 


buck master, ach man. 

. Tomer, zexvill. 
Bech master, och man; aod ch mistrom, och mold; 
Buch busbawied aod howls; euch hones 

T. Tumor, Mier i af Goud 
Hustandry, raxiz, © (1857). 


Master Matthew, a town - 
Ben Jonson, Lvery Man in His Humour 
(1598). 

We hare the cheating bameur In the character of “ Nyprm.* 
ie” Menicr’ Guephen,” sl: tea geet numer $0 


“ Master Matthow,”— Kaly 
Master Stephen, « country gull of 
(See Mastee Mat- 


melancholy humour. 
reew,)-—Hen Jonsun, Every Man in His 
Humour (1543), 


Master of Sentences, Pierre Lom- 
bard, author of w book called Sentences 
(1100-1164), 

Masters (Poctor), physician to queen 
Rlizabeth Sir W. jmbeg Aenilworts 
(time, Elizabeth), 

Masters (The Four): (1) Michaes 
O'Clenghe (or Clery), who died 1643; 
2) Cucoirighe Rig ped (3) Maurice 

ory; (4) Fearfeafa Conry; authors of 
Annals of Doneyal. 

Mat Mizen, mate of H.M. ship 
Tver. The type of oa daring, reckless, 
dareslevil English enilor. His adven- 
tures with Larry Clifton in Delhi form 
the main incidents of Barrymore's melo- 
drama, El Jiyder, Chief of the Ghaut 
Mountains, 


Mat-o’-the-Mint, o highwayman 
Peachum 
says, “Iie is a promising, sturdy fellow, 
and diligent in wis way. Somewhat too 
bold and hasty ; one that may raise good 
contributions on the public, if he does 
net cut himeelf short by murder."—Gay, 
Tie Beggar's Opera, i. (1727). 

 Matabrune (3 yl), wife of king 
Pierron of the Strong Island, and mother 
of prince Oriant one of the ancestors of 
Godfrey of Bouillon.—Mediaval Romance 








MATTIE. 





gomance of Espinel, entitled Vida del 
Eecudero Marcos de om, 1618.) 


Mattie, maidservant of Bailie Nicol 
Jarvie, and afterwards his wife.—Sir W. 
Scott, Rob Roy (time, George I.). 


Maud, a young lady, described as: 
Faultily fanitiess, icily regular, splendidly null. 
Tennyson, Maud, 1. if 
Maude (1 syl.), wife of Peter Prate- 
fast, ‘‘ who loved cleanliness." 
She kepe her dishes from all foulenes ; 
she lacked clowtes withouten 
She wyped her dishes with her dogges tayll. 
Pase-tyme of Piesure, 2xix. (1516). 
s, the Nestor of French rv- 
mance. He was one of Charlemagne's 
paladins, a magician and champion. 
*," In Italian romance he is called 


“ Malagigi " (g.v.). 


Ma @’Aygremont, son of 
duke Bevis d’Aygremont, stolen in in- 
fancy by a female slave. Ags the slave 
rested under a white-thorn, a lion and 
a leopard devoured her, and then killed 
each other in disputing over the infant. 
Oriande la fée, attracted to the spot by 
the crying of the child, exclaimed, ‘‘ By 
the powers above, the child is mal gist 
(‘ badly nursed’)! and ever after it was 
ealled Mal-piat or Mau-gis’. When grown 
to manhood, he obtained the enchanted 
horse Bayard, and took from Anthenor 
(the Saracen) the sword Flamberge. Sub- 
sequently, he gave both to his cousin 
Renaud (Renaldo).—Romance of Maugis 
@ Aygremont et de Vivian son Frére. 

*.* Inthe Italian romance, Maugis is 
called ‘‘ Malayiyi,” Bevis is ‘ Buovo,” 
Bavard is ‘‘Bavardo,” Flamberye is 
* Fusberta,” and Renaud is ‘* Renaldo.” 


Maugrabin (Zumect), a Bohemian 
hung near Plessis l¢és Tours. 
ayraddin Mauyjrabin, the * Zingaro," 
brother of Zamet Maugrabin. He as- 
sumes the disguise of Rouge Sanglier, 
and pretends to be a herald from lidge 
Le.aje].—Sir W. Scott, Quentin Durward 
time, Edward IV.). 


Mau’graby, son of Hal-il-Man- 
graby and his wife Yandar. Hal-il- 

augraby founded Dom-Daniel ‘‘ under 
the roots of the ocean” near the coast 
of Tunis, and his son completed it. 
He and his son were the greatest 
magicians that ever lived. Maugraby 
was killed by prince Habed-il-Rouman, 
gon of the caliph of Svria, and with his 
death Dom-Daniel to exist.— 





MAURI-GASIMA. 
Continuation of Arabian Nights (‘* His- 
tory of Maugraby "). 

Did they not may to us 
haughty, by would 
drabdian Nights, iv. 74 


day that if we wae 
us 1—-Continuation of 


Ma a giant who kept the bridge 
leading to a castle in which a lady was 
besieged. Sir Lybius, one of the knights 


of the Round Table, did battle with him, 
slew him, and liberated the lady.— 
Libeaur (a romance). 


Maul, a giant who used to spoil 
young pilgrims with sophistry. He at- 
tacked Mr. Greatheart with a club; but 
Greatheart pierced him under the fifth 
rib, and then cut off his head.—Bunyan, 
Pilgrim's Progress, ii. (1684). 


Maul of Monks, Thomas Crom- 
well, visitor-general of English monas- 
terics, which he summarily suppressed 
(1490-1540). 


Maulstatute (Jfaster), a magistrate. 
—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the Peak (time, 
Charles II.). 


Maun’drel, a wearisome gossip, a 
chattering woman. 
throwing the cobwebvur, the door and wie dresing. 
—Sazon and Gasl, lil 81. 

Maundrels, vagaries, especially those of 
a person in delirium, or the disjointed 
gabble of a sleeper. 

*,* The word is said to be a corru 
tion of Mandeville (sir John), who pu 
lished a book of travels, full of idle tales 
and maundering gossip. 


Mauprat (Adrien de), colonel and 
chevalier in the king's army i ‘‘ the 
wildest gallant and bravest knight of 
France.” He marricd Julie; but the 
king accused him of treason for so doing, 
and sent him to the Bastille. Being 
released by the cardinal Richelieu, he 
was forgiven, and made happy with the 
blessing of the king.—Lord Lytton, 
Richelieu (1839). 


Maurice Beevor (Sir), a miser, 
and (failing the children of the countess 
heir to the Arundel estates. The countess 
having two sons (Arthur and Percy), sir 
Maurice hired assassins to murder them ; 
but his plots were frustrated, and the 
miser went to his grave ‘“‘a sordid 
spat-upon, revengeless, worthless, and 
rascally poor cousin.”——Lord Lytton, The 
Sea-Cuptuin (1839). 


Mauri-Gasima, an 
Formosa, said to have been 


near 


island 
sank in the 





Got Maximus at lengtli the victory in Gaul, 

. . . where, after Gratian's fall, 

Arnorica to them the ralluin! vietor gare. . . 

Whiel colony... is“ Linthe Britala ™ called. 

Drayton, Pulyoliion, lx. (1618). 
Maxwell, deputy chamberlain st 

Whitehall.—Sir W. Scott, Fortunes of 
Nijel (time, James !.). 


Maxwell (Mr. Pate), \aird of Summer- 
trees, called ‘‘ Pate in Peril ;" one of the 
pist conspirators with Redgauntlet.— 
Bie W. Scott, Aedyauntiel (time, George 
II.). 

Maxwell (The Rijht Hon. Willa), 
lord Evandale, an officer in the king's 
army.—Sir W. Scott, Wid Mortality (time, 
Charles IT.). 


May,a girl who married January, a 
Lombard baron 60 years old. She loved 
Damyan, a young squire; and one day 
the baron caught Dainyan and May fond- 
ling each other, but the young wife told 
her husband his eves were so defective 
that they could not be trusted. The 
old man accepted the solutivn—for what 
is better than ‘‘a fruitful wife and a 
confiding spouse ? "—Chisucer, Conferdury 
Tales (‘* The Merchant's Tale,’ 1488), 


May unlucky for Brides. Mary 
queen of Scotland nmiarrie) Hothwell, the 
murderer of her husland lord Darnley, 
on May 12. 

Mense malum Majo cobere role alt 
Uvhl, \aferim, ¥. 

May-Day (Fril), May 1, 1517, when 
the London apprentices rose up against 
the foreign residents and did incalculable 
mischief. This mot began May 1, and 
lasted till May 22. 


May Queen (7c), 1 poem in three 
rts i Tennyson (i812). Aller, a 
right-eved, merry child, was chosen 
May queen, and, being afraid she might 
oversleep herself, told lier jother bo be 
sure to call her carly. 
I aleep so sound al] night, mother, thal | stall) never 


wake, 
If you do not call me load when the day begios fo break + 
But I must gather knots of fiwers, and buds aud garlands 


may. 
For I'in to be queen o’ the May, mutiher, lim bo be qaeen 
o' the May. 
The old vear passed away, anil the black- 
eyed, rustic maiden was dying. She 
hoped to greet the new year before her 
eyes, closed in death, ani! bade her mother 
once again to be sure tu call her early; 
but it was not now because she slept eo 
soundly. Alas! no. 
Good night, sweet mother: cal] me before the day lb 


AI night I lie awake, but I fall naleep af worn ; 
27 





MAXWELL. 625 


| violets were in bloom, 








 MAYLIE. 


But I would see the sun rine © mi the New Year, 
Bo. if pou're waking, call ma, ae mle Ay 


The day rose and sed away, but 





| Alice lingered on till March. The snow- 


one before her, and the 
Robin had dearly 
loved the child, but the thoughtless 


drops had 


| willage beauty, in her joyons girlhood, 


tossed her head at him, and never thought 
of love; but now that she was going to 
the land of shadows, her dying words 
Were: 

Ard my te Roblin a kind word, and tell bie mot to fret; 
There's many worthler than |, would make him happy 


If t had lived—I cannot tell—I might have been ble wife: 
ut al! these thlungs have censed to ba, with my desire af 

Maye (Tic), that subtile and ab- 
struse sense which the goddess Maya 
inspires. Plato, Epicharmos, and some 
other ancient philosophers refer it to the 
presence of divinity. ‘It is the divinity 
which stirs within us." In poetry it 
gives an inner sense to the outward word, 
and in common minds it degenerates into 
delusion or second sight. Maya is an 
Indian deity, and personates the “* power 


| of creation." 


Hartmann posikie In Mays, . . . 1 lake péndtre dans 
see dcrits bes sentiments, et les pentes dont son Ame oot 
remnile, et chetche sans cee fi tesoodre bes antithies — 
G. Weber, Diet, dala Ligdreotery 4 liema nae, 

Mayeux, a stock oame in France for 
a man deformed, vain, and licentious, but 
witty and brave. It occurs in a 
number of French romances and can- 


| catures, 


Mayflower, ship of 180 tona, 
which, in December, 1620, started from 
Plymouth, and conveyed to Massachusetts, 
in North America, 102 puritans, called the 
“Pilgrim Fathers,” who named their 
acttlement New Plwmouth. 


.« » the Magd ower elled from Lhe hartovad PlyrmoatA | 

Took the wind on ber quarter, and site! [or ihe open 
Atlin ile, 

Borne on the eond of the oem, ol the welling hearts of 
the gellgri aa, 
Langicliow, Coaruhlp qf Miles Sfand leh, ¥. (1858), 


Men of the Mayflower, the Pilgrim 
Fathers, who went out in the Afayflower 
to North America in 16720, 


Mayflower (PAcbe), servant at gir 
Henry Lee's lodye.—Sir W. Scott, Wood- 
stock (time, Commonwealth). 


Maylie (Mrs.), the lady of the house 
attacked burglariously by Bill Sikes and 
others. Mrs. Maylie is mother of Harry 
Maylie, and aunt of Rose Fleming who 
lives with her. 

fhe wo well odvaooed in yearn, bot fhe ‘rn he cll 
caken chal In which she ot was bot more upright than 


28 





ee 


MEAL-TUB PLOT. : 
and his daughter's servant called Tatty- 
coram. A jolly man was Mr. Meagles ; 
bot clear-headed, shrewd, and perse- 


Mrs. Meagles, wife of the “ 


man," and mother of Pet.—C. Dickena, 
Little Dorrit (1857). 

Meal-Tub Plo fictitious con- 
spiracy concocted by tield for the 


of cutting off those who o 
fie puccenslon of James duke of ‘ork, 
afterwards James I]. The scheme was 
concealed in a meal-tub in the house of 
Mrs. Cellier (1685), 


Measure for Measure, There 
was a law in Vienna that made it death 
for a man to live with a woman not his 
wife; but the law was so little enforced 


that the mothera of Vienna complained to | 


the duke of its neglect. So the gern 
deputed Angelo to enforce it; and, 
suming the dress of a friar, abeented 
himself awhile, to watch the result. 
Scarcely was the duke gone, when Claudio 
was sentenced to death for violating the 
law. His sister Isabel went to intercede 
on his behalf, and Angelo told her he 
would spare her brother if she would 
become his Phryné@. Isabel told her 
brother be must prepare to die, os the 
conditions proposed by Angelo were out 
of the question, The duke, disguised as 
a friar, heard the whole story, and _pet- 
suaded Jeabel to “‘nasent in words,” but 
to send Mariana (the divorced wife of 
Angelo) to take her place. This was 
done; but Angelo sent the provost to 
behead Claudio, a crime which ‘the 
friar” contrived to avert, Next day, the 
duke returned to the city, and Isabel ‘told 
ber tale. The end was, the duke married 
Jeabel, Angelo took back his wife, and 
Claudio married Julict whom he had 
seduced.—Shakespeare, Measure fur Mea- 
one 1003). 


“f This story is from Whetstone’s 
Heptameron (1578). A similar story is 
Cinthio‘s third 


iven also io Giraldi 
- rbd of stones, 


Medam'‘othi, the island at which the 
flect of Pantag’rvel landed on the fourth 
day of their voyage. Here many choice 
curiosities were bought, such as “* the 

icture of o man's voice," an "echo 
wo to life,” ** Plato's ideas," some of 

“ Epicuros's atoms,” a sample ‘of “ Phi- 
lome’la's needlework,” and other objects 


of virtu to be obtained nowhere else.— | 


Kabelais, Puntayruel, iv. 3 (1545). 


| compound, meani 










MEDECIN MALGRE LUI, 


** Medamothi is a ‘compound Greek 
word meaning ‘‘never in any place.” 
So Utopi is a Greek compound, m 
“no p Kennwyuhur is a 
““T know not where ;” 
and Kennahtwhar | Anglo-Saxon for the 
same. AJIl these 4 are in 91° north 
lat. and 180° 1’ west long., in the Niltalé 





Medea, a famous sorceress of Colchin, 
who married Jason the leader of the A 


| nauts, and aided him in getting 


of the golden fleece. After being married 
ieayears Jason repudiated her for Glancé ; 

and Medes, in rev sent the bride a 
poisoned robe, which killed both Glaucd 
and ber father. Medea then tore to pieces 


her two sons, and fed to Athens in a 


chariot drawn ihe Bes pect 
The sto ramatized in —_ 
ad Euripid(@s; in an by Sentca 

by Ovid; in "Veened , by Corneille ( Médeéa, 
1635), Longepierre (1605), and 
(1849) ; in English, by Glover (1761). 

Mra. Yates was a operb “ Medes."—Thomas Campbell, 


Mede'a and Absyr’tus. When 
Medea fled with Jason from Colchis (in 
Asia), she murdered her brother Absyt- 
tus, and, cutting the body into severag 
pieces, strewed the fragments about, thas 
the father might be delayed in picking 
err ep bad § us be unable to overtake 


pete fe Seer ae ee See ae 
low ws many gobiets will | cut li 
As wild Medes young A! 
7 


hayrtus 
Heury Fi. act vy. oc 2 (1B). 


Mede'a’s Kettle. Medea the sor 
ceress cut to pieces an old ram, threw the 
parts into her caldron, and by her incan- 
tations changed the old ram into a young 
lamb. The daughters of Pelias tho 
they would Ine their father 4H ‘ 

outh, as Zson had been, ser 
Killed him, and put the body in Medea 
caldron ; but Medea refused to utter the 
needful ‘Incantation, and eo the old map 
was not restored to life, 
the and shake off nce. Get ther Meltene 


kettle, nud be anew.—W. Congreve, Love fer Lovg, 
fy. (L005). 


comedy ty Molitre (1666). The “enforced 
doctor” é, a faggot-maker, 
who is called in by Geéronte to core his 
daughter of dumbness. narelle soom 
perceives that the sales fen is assumed in 
order to prevent a hatef and 
introdnces her lover aa Avy 


The dumb spirit is at once exorcised, and, 





MEGNOUN. 





MELESIGENES. 





taught man the science of medicine. 
This t Pearl-Feather slew the father 
of Niko’mis (the grandmother of Flia- 
watha). Hiawatha all day long fought 
with the mayician without effect; at night- 
fall the woodpecker told him to strike at 
the tuft of hair on the magician’s head, 
the only vulnerable place ; accordingly, 
Hiawatha discharyed his three remaining 
arrows at the hair tuft, and Megissogwon 
1 e 
* Honour be to Hiawatha ! 

He hath slain the great Pear!-Feather; 

Slain the mizhtiest of magicians— 

Him that sent the fiery fever, . . . 

Sent disease and death ainong ua.” 

Longfellow, Hiawatha, tx, (1865). 


Megnoun. (See Mesnovn.) 


Meg’ra, a lascivious lady in the 
drama called PhAiluster or Love Lies a- 
beedinj, by Beaumont and Fletcher 
(1608). 

Meigle, in Strathmore, the place 
where Guinever, Arthur's queen, was 
buried. 


Meiklehose (Jsaac), one of the 
elders of Roseneath parish.—Sir W. 
peott, Heart of Midlothian (time, George 

-). 


Meiklewham (Afr. Saunders), “the 
man of law,” in the managing committee 
of the Spa hotel.—Sir W. Scott, Sé 
Ronan's Well (time, George IIT.). 


Meister (Wilhelm), the hero and title 
of anovel by Gocthe. The object is to 
show that man, despite his errors and 
shortcomings, is led by a guiding hand, 
and reaches some higher aim at last 
(1821). 


Meistersingers, or minstrel trades- 
men of Germany. An association of 
master tradesmen, to revive the national 
minstrelsy, which had fallen into decay 
with the decline of the minnesingers or 
love-minstrels (1350-1523). Their sub- 
jects were chietly moral or religious, and 
constructed according to rigid rules. 
The three chief were Hans Rosenblit 
(armorial painter, born 1450), Tans 
‘olz (surgeon, born 1479), and Hans 
Sachs (cobbler, 1494-1574). The next 
best were Heinrich von Mueglen, Konrad 
Warder, Master Altschwert, Master Bar- 
thel Reventoyen (the blacksmith), Mus- 
cabliit (the tailor), and Hans Blotz (the 
barber). 


Moj’noun and Leilah (2 syi.), 
a Persian love tale, the Romeo and 
Jaliet of Eastern romance. They are the 
moet beautiful, chaste, and impassionate 


of lovers; the models of what lovers 
would be if human nature were perfect. 

When he sang the loves of Megndun and Lelleh. . . 
tears inseusibly overflowed the cheeks of his auditora —-W, 
Beckford, Machek (1788). 

Melan’chates (4 syl.), the hound 
that killed Acteon, and was changed 
into a hart. 

Nelanchetes, that bound 
Gaue his his mortal wound, eee 
Was chaungéd to s barte. 
J. Skolton, Pbeilépy Aparew (time, Henry VITL) 


Melantius, a rough, honest soldier, 
who believes every one is true till con- 
victed of crime, and then is hea relentless 

unisher, Melantius and Diph‘ilus are 

rothers of Evadné.—Beaumont and 
Fletcher, The Maid’s Tragedy (1610). 

*,” The master scene between Antony 
and Ventidius in Dryden's Ali for Love is 
copied from The Muid’s Tragedy. ‘“ Ven~ 
tidius” is in the place of Melantius. 

Melchior, one of the three kings of 
Cologne. Ie was the ‘‘ Wise Man of the 
East” who offered to the infant Jesus 
gold, the emblem of rovalty. The other 
two were Gaspar and Balthazar. Mel- 
chior means ‘“‘king of light.” 


Melchior, a monk attending the black 
priest of St. Paul's.—Sir W. tt, Anne 
of Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Melchior (i.e. Melchior Pfinzing), a 
German poet who wrote the Tec Ane 
an epic poem which has the kaiser Maxi- 
milian (son of Frederick III.) for ite 
hero. This poem was the Oriande 
Furioso of the Germans, 
Gat the post Melchior, singing kaleer r Maxisalion’y praise, 

Melea’ger, son of Althea, who was 
doomed to live while a certain log re 
mained unconsumed. Althea kept the 
log for several years, but being one day 
angry with her son, she cast it on the 
where it was consumed. Her son died 
the same moment.—Ovid, AMetam., viii. 4. 

Sir John Davies uses this to illustrate 
the immortality of the soul. He says 
that the life of the soul does not depend 
on the body as Meleager’s life depended 
on the fatal brand. 

Again, if by the body's prop she stand-= 
lf an the body's itfe her life depend, 
As Mv lenwer’s on rants brand 7 
The budy's guod intend. 

Molesig’enes (5 sy/.). Homer is se 
called from the river Melés (eds in 
Asia Minor, on the banks of w scane 
say he was 








MELIZYUS. 


the drama called The Laws of Candy, by 
Beaumont and Fletcher (1647). 


Melisyus, king of Thessaly, in the 
golden era of Saturn. He was the first 
to tame horses for the use of man. 

In whose time reigned also in Themayle (3 ay/.), 

A parte of Grece, the kyng Melizyus, 

That was right strong and fierce in battalle ; 
whose iahoure, as the storye sheweth us, 

He e first horses, wilde and rigorous, 

Teaching his men on them right wel ta ryde; 

And he biniwelfe dil first the horse bestride. 

Stephen Hawes, The Passe-tymne af Plesure, |. (1515). 


Meliz’yus (King) held his court in the 
Tower of Chivalry, and there knighted 
Graunde Amoure, after giving him the 
following advice :— 


And first Good Hupe his legge harneyes should be; 
His habergion. of Perfect Ryghtcousnes, 
Gird first with the girdle of Chustitie : 

busines, 





His swerde God's Word, as St. sayeth. 
Stephen Hawes, TAe Passe-tyme of Piesure, rxviil. (1515). 

Mell (3/r.), the poor, down-trodden 
second master at Salem House, the school 
of Mr. Creakles. Mr. Mell played the 
flute. His mother lived in an almshouse, 
and Steerforth used to taunt Mell with 
this ‘‘deyradation,” and indeed caused 
him to be discharged. Mell emigrated 
to Australia, and succeeded well in the 
new country.—C. Dickens, David Copper- 
feid (1249). 


Melle’font (2 syi.), in love with 
Cynthia daughter of sir Paul Pliant. 
His aunt, lady Touchwood, had a criminal 
fondness for him, and because he re- 
pelled her advances she vowed his ruin. 
After passing several hair-breadth escapes 
from the ‘‘double dealing” of his aunt 
and his ‘‘ friend” Maskwell, he succeeded 
in winning and marrying the lady of his 
attachment.—W. Congreve, Zhe Double 
Dealer (1700). 


Mellifluous Doctor (The), St. 
Bernard, whose writings were called “a 


river of paradise " (1091-1153). 


Melnotte (Claude), a gardener’s son, 
in love with Pauline ‘‘the Beauty of 
Lyons,” but treated by her with contempt. 
Beauseant and Glavis, two other rejected 
suitors, conspired with him to humble 
the proud fair one. To this end, Claude 
assumed to be the prince of Como, and 
Yauline married him, but was indignant 
when she discovered how she had been 
duped. Claude left her to join the French 
army, and, under the name of Morier, 
rose in two years and a half to the rank 
of colonel. He then returned to Lyons, 
and found his father-in-law on the eve 





681 


o—_ 


MELVIL. 


of bankruptcy, and Pauline about to be 
sold to Beauseant to pay the creditors. 
Claude paid the money required, and 
elaimed Pauline as his loving and truthful 
1858). L. B. Lytton, ly of Lyons 


Melo (Juan de), born at Castile in the 
fifteenth century. A dispute having 
arisen at Esalo’na upon the question 
whether Achillés or Hector were the 
braver warrior, the marquis de Ville’pa 
called out, ‘‘ Let us see if the advocates 
of Achillés can fight as well as prate.” 
At the word, there appeared in the’ 
assembly a gigantic fire-breathing mon- 
ster, wich repeated the same challenge. 
Every one shrank back except Juan de 
Melo, who drew his sword and placed 
himself before king Juan IT. to protect 
him, ‘‘tide life, tide death.” The king 
appointed him alcaydé uf Alcala la Real, 
in Grana’da, for his loyalty.—Chronica 
de Don Alvaro de Luna, 


Melrose (Violet), an heiress, who 
marries Charles Middlewick. This was 
inst the consent of his father, because 
Violet had the bad taste to snub the 
retired tradesman, and considered vul- 
garity as the ‘unpardonable sin.” 

Maury Melrose, Violet's cousin, but with- 
out a penny. She marries Talbot Champ- 
neys; but his father, sir Geoffry, wanted 
him to marry Violet the heiress.—H. J 
Byron, Our Boys (a comedy, 1875). 








Melusi’na, the most famous of the 
fées of France. Having enclosed hes 
father in a mountain for offending her 
mother, she was condemned to become 
a@ serpent every Saturday. When she 
married the count of Lusignan, she made 
her husband vow never to visit her on 
that day, but the jealousy of the count 
made him break his vow. Melusina was, 
in consequence, obliged to leave her 
mortal husband, and roam about the 
world as a ghost till the day of doom. 
Some say the count immured her in the 
dungeon wall of his castle.—Jean d Arras 
(fourteenth century). 

*,* The cry of despair given by the f@ 
when she discovered the indiscreet visit of 
her husband, is the origin of the phrase, 
Un cri de Mélusine (‘‘A shriek of de- 


spair"). 
Melvil (Sir John), a young baronet, 
engaged to be married to Miss Sterling, 


the elder daughter of a City merchant, 
who promises to settle on £80,000, 





Ess 


MENCIA OF MOSQUERA. 688 








ritos, the Ecloguwes of Virgil, and the 
Shepheardes Calendar of Spenser. 


Men'cia of Mosquera (Donna) 
married don Alvaro de Mello. A few 
days after the marriage, Alvaro hap- 
pened to quarrel with don Andrea de 
re and killhim. He was obliged to 
flee from Spain, leaving his bride behind, 
and his property was confiscated, For 
seven years she received no intelligence of 
his whereabouts (for be was a slave most of 
thefime), but whenseven years had elapsed 
the report of hia death in Fez reached 
her. The young widow now married the 
marquis of Gnardia, who lived ina grand 
castle near Burgos, but walking in the 
grounds one morming she was struck with 
the earnestness with which one of the 


under-gardeners looked at her. Thisman | 


proved to be her first husband don Alvaro, 
with whom she now fled from the castle: 
but on the road a gang of robbers fell 
upon them. Alvaru was killed, and the 
lady taken to the rubbers’ cave, where 
Gil Blas saw her and heard her aad tale. 
The lady was soon released, and sent to 
the castle of the marjuis of Guardia, 
She found the marquis dying from grief, 
and indeed he died the day following, 
and Mencia retired to a convent.—Lesage, 
Gul Silas, i. 11-14 (1715), 


Mendo'za, a Jew prze-fi¢hter, who 
held the belt at the close of the last 
century, and in 1791 opened the Lyceum 
in the Strand, to teach “‘ the noble art of 
self-defence.” 

1 would have deali the fellow thal abused you mich a 
Feeoniypens in the fifeh bution, thatmy friend Merdean 
ook) not have placed it betier.—H, Comberland, Shira 
fhe Jew, ly, 2 bis. 

There i a oprivt often seen In old picture shopa, of 
Bumpiress aid Mirth sparring, and a queer aneular 
mhibiiien ti What that bb tothe maleri an uf boring, 
Quick's eile of acting ea to Darwioti— Records of 
Stage liriecran, 


Mendoza (fsauc), a och Jew, who 
thinks himself nwnstrowly wise, but is 
duped hy everyone, (See under ISAAC.) 
—Sheridan, Jhe Janna (1774), 

John Kenhle | 173: -l2) nore dreiziesd to pela = ela 
beeih” [ites Opera, by tay be jot ale aa much 
Suited tu bint ae“ lar Meteo” | is metoriau tbat 
he perisie| in playing “Charles Surface “ia, the Sedan! 
for Sens | lief ile rida) Gay Filia, Mr. 
Kemble, you lave offen goven ue Charles's niartyrdom," 
Sheu shall we linwe Pilea reelarml lain 1" — W. LL Li sell, 
Hr) reacatatire Actara, Sab 


fill sone Bae 


Menech'mians, persone exactly 
like each other, as the brothers Drom, 
Socalled from the Menochmi of Plautus, 


Menec'rates (4 sy/.), a physician of 
Svracuse, of uopblounided Vanity and arro- 
cance. le gesumied to limeelf tle tiule 








MEPHISTOPHELES. 


of Jupiter, and in a letter to Philip king 
e pecedae ai thus: ‘* Menecratée 

upiter to ki ilip greeting.” i 
asked by Philip to ; banquet, the phy- 
siclan was served only with frankincense, 
like the gods ; but Menecratés was greatly 
offended, and hurried home. 


Buch was Menecratés of little worth, 
Who Jove, the saviour, to be called presumed, 
To whom of incense Philip made a feast, 
And gave pride, scorn, and bunger to 
Lard Brooke, /nguisition upors Fame, etc. ( 


Mene’via, St. David's, in Wales. A 
corruption of Henemenew, its old British 





name, 
Mengs (John), the surly innkeeper at 
Kirchhoff vi .—Sir W. Scott, Anne 


of Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Menippee (Satyre),; oa famous 
political satire, written during the time 
of what is called in French history the 
Holy League, the objects of which wern 
to exterminate the huguenots, to confine 
the king (Henri ITI.) in a monastery, 
and to crown the duc de Guise. The 
satire is partly in verse, and partly in 
prose, and its object is to expose the 
perfidious intentions of Philip of Spain 
and the culpable ambition of the Guises. 

It is divided into two parts, the first of 
which is entitled Cutholicon @ Espagne, 
by Pierre Leroy (1593), exposing those 
who had been corrupted by the gold of 
Spain ; the second part is entitled Abrégd 
des Etats de la Ligue, by Gillot, Pithou, 
Rapin, and Passerat, published 1594. 

*,* Menippus was a cynic philosopher 
and poet of Gadara, in Phanicia, who 
wrote twelve books of satires in prose 
uid verse. 

Varro wrote in Latin a work called 
The Satires of Menippus (Satyr@e Menip- 
pea). 

Mennibojou, a North American 
Indian deity. 


Menteith (The earl of), a kinsman 
of the earl of Montrose.—Sir W. Scott, 
Lcyend of Mmtrose (time, Charles J.). 


Mentor, a wise and faithful adviser 
or guide. So called from Mentor, a 
friend of Ulyssés, whose form Minerva 
assumed when she accompanied Tele- 
machos in his search for his father.— 
Fénelon, Zetémague (1700). 


Mephistoph’eles (5 syl.), the 
sneering, jeering, leering attendant 
demon of Faust in Goethe's drama of 
/uust, and Gounod's opera of the same 
name, Marlowecallsthename ‘‘ Mephus- 












be found—that of the 
@ volos, a manner, and a person, all equally graceful 
airy, and features at once wil and genteel, he 
on the top of his prufession like a plume. 
Phe Town (1843). 
Mercy, s young pilgrim, who ac- 


companied Christiana in her walk to Zion. 
When Mercy got to the Wicket Gate, she 
swooned from fear of being refused ad- 
mittance. Mr. Brisk proposed to her, 
but being told that she was poor, left 
her, and she was afterwards married to 
Matthew, the eldest son of Christian.— 
Banyan, Pilyrim's Progress, ii. (1684). 
Merdle (Jfr.), banker, a skit on the 
directors of the Royal British Bank, and 
on Mr. Hudson “the railway king.” Mr. 
Merdle of Harley Street, was called 
the “Master Mind of the Age.” He 
became insolvent, and committed suicide. 
Mr. Merdle was a heavily made man, 
with an obtuse head, and coa 
common features. His chief butler r said 
of him, ‘‘ Mr. Merdle never was a gentle- 
man, and no ungentlemanly act on Mr. 
Merdle's part would surprise me.” The 
great banker was ‘“‘the greatest forger 
and greatest thief that ever cheated the 


gallows.” 
Lord Decimas {BSarnac’e) waring Mr. Merdle 
about... as Giganule Enterpri«, The Wealth of Eng. 
ty, and all manner of 


and, Credit, Prosperity 
blessings. on ar 


Bfrs. Merdic, wife of the bank swindler. 
After the death of her husband, society 
decreed that Mrs. Merdle should still be 
admitted among the sacred few ; so Mrs. 
Merdle was still received and patted on 
the back by the upper ten.—C. Dickens, 
Little Dorrit (1857). 


Meredith (J/r.), one of the con- 
spirators with Redyauntlet. — Sir W. 
ott, Redjuuntict (time, George I1J.). 


Meretith (Mr. Michael), ‘the man of 
mirth,” in the managing committee of the 
Spa hotel.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan’s 

‘ell (time, George I11.). 

Meredith (Sir), a Welsh knight.—Sir 
W. Scott, Castle Dungervus (time, Henry 

Meredith (Oven), pseudonym of the 
Hon. Edward Robert Bulwer Lytton 
lord Lytton), author of The Wanderer 
(1850), etc. This son of lord Bulwer 

om poet and novelist, succeeded to 

the peeraye in 1873. 


Me'rida (Jfarchioness), betrothed to 
eount Valantia.—Mrs. Inchbald, CAidd of 
Nature. 


Meridarpax, the pride cf mice. 
ASDA os ae rae ree 





Merid'ies or ‘* Noonday Sun,” one of 
the four brothers who kept the Ron has 
of Castle Perilous. So Tennyson 
named him ; but in the History of Prince 
Arthur, he is called ‘sir Perminés, the 


Red Knight.” abe a sory’ Hades 
and Lynatte "); sir T. Malory, History 
of Prince A » i. 129 (1470).” 


Merlin (Ambrose), prince of enchan- 
ters. His mother was Mati an 
who was seduced by a “‘ guileful sprite 
or incubus, ‘‘half angel and half man, 
dwelling in mid-air betwixt the earth 
and moon.” Some say his mother was 
the daughter of Pubidius lord of Math- 
traval, in Wales; and others make her a 

rincess, daughter of Demetius king | 

met’ia. Blaise baptized the i nha 
and thus rescued it from the powers 
darkness. 

Merlin died spell-bound, but the author 
and manner of his death are given 
differently by different authorities. 
in the Listury of Prince Arthur (sir T. 
Malory, 1470), we are told that the en- 
ohantress Nimue or Ninive enveigled the 
old man, and ‘‘ covered him with a stone 
under a rock." In the Morte d' Arthur it 
is said ‘“‘he sleeps and sighs in an old 
tree, spell-bound by Vivien.” Tennyson, 
in his ddylis _(‘* Vivien”), says that 
Vivien induced Merlin to take. shelter 
from a storm in a hollow oak tree, and 
left him spell-bound. Others say he was 
spell-bound in a hawthorn bush, but this 
is evidently a blunder. (See. MERLIN 
THE WILD. 

*,* Merlin made ‘the fountain of 
love,” mentioned by Bojardo in Orlando 
Innamorato, 1. 8. 

Ariosto, in Orlando Furioso, yt ae 
made ‘‘one of the tour fount fountains’ (ch. 
xXvi. 

He also made the Round Table at Car- 
duel for 150 kni ignite, which came into 
the ion of king Arthur on his 

ewith queen Guinever ; and 
brought from Ireland the the stones 


" Stonehenge on Salisbu 


> in Ellis's 
Heh Metric Robes is Bm 


Potyolbion ; in Kenilworth, by 


guitlusion is made t Bi in in the ee: 
as 








MERVYN. 687 





is pores rich in mountains, meres, 
and eprings. 
eo ja) audience 
Mervinia for her hits gl ard 
Mervyn (Mr. Arthur) ardian of 
Julia Mannering.—Sir W. Boots, Guy 
Manneriny (time, George I1.). 


Mesopota’mia or Cwiloges ig, the 
district ions Warwick and Eccleston 
eluates, in London, mainly built by 

bit. 


Messali'na, wife of the emperor 
Clandius of Rome. Her name is a by- 
word for incontinancy (a.p. *-48). 

Che ie not one of thoes Meenlinas who, belylng the 
pride of birth, hmiohle thelr affections even ta the dust, 

dbhoncur themeete whihowt a blosk.—Lenge, OH 
Bias, by, 1 (174). 
Ob thou epltiew! of thy virtuoos set, Madam Meealinn 


I1., retire fo thy apartment !—DLryden, The Spanish Fryar, 
iL 2 (Lea). 


When f meet a Mesalina, Grei and oneated In her 
Se ie Tulle abies ter chortas over ber 
beliecwt, Linu ul w ng her over 
nae mr belly, herror lordes my fornltiea, —C, 
Obhber, Low Mate oa Man (1709), 

Messalina (The Modern), Catherine II. 
of Russia (1729-1796), 


Messalina of Germany, Harbary 
of Cilley, second wife of kaiser Sigismund 
of Germany (fifteenth century). 

Messiah (Tic), an epic poem in 
fifteen bouks, by F.G. Klopstock. The 
firat three were published in 1748, and 
the last in 1773. The subject is the last 


days of Jesus, His crucifixion and resur- | 


rection. Ik, i. Jesus ascends the Mount 
of Olives, to spend the night in prayer. 
Bk. ii. John the Beloved, failing to 
exorcise a demoniac, Jesus goce to his 
assistance; and Satan, relwked, returne 
to hell, where ho tella the fallen angela 
his version wf the birth and ministry of 
Christ, whose death he resulves on. = Dk, 
iii. Messiah slecpa for the Inat time on the 
Mount of Ulives; the tutelar angels of 
the twelve apostics, and a description of 
the apostles are given. Satan gives Judas 
a dream, and then enters the heart of 
Caiaphas, Ik. iv. The council in the 
palace of Cainphas decree that Jesus must 
die; Jesus sends I’eter and Jubn to prepare 
the Passover, and cats His Last Supper 
with His ajweties. bk, v. The three 
hours of ageny in the garden. Idk. vi. 
Jesus, bound, is taken before Annas, and 
then before Cainplina, Teter denies hia 
Master. 
Pilate; Judas bangs himself; Pilate 
sends Jesus to Ilerud, but Herod sends 
Him ayain to I'ilate, whe delivers Ilim to 





| Fletcher 
Uk. vii. Christ is brought before | ’ 





= |, 2 


METOPIHIIS. 


the Jews. Ek. viii. Christ nailed to the 
cross. ik. ix. Christ on the croms, 
Bk. x. The death of Christ. Bk. xi, 
The ¥ail of the Temple rent, and the re- 
surrection of many from their graves, 
Ik. xii. The burial of the body, and death 
of Mary the sister of Lazarus. Bk. xiii. 
The resurrection and auicide of Phils, 
Rik. xiv. Jesus shows Himself to His dis- 
ciples, Bk. xv. Many of those who had 
risen from their graves show themselves 
to others, Conclusion. 

Messiah, an oratorio by Handel (1749), 
The libretto was by rles Jennens, 
nicknamed '* Soliman the Magnificent.” 


Metanoi'a, Repentance personified, 
by William Binyeta) in Britanna's Pas- 
torals, v. (Greek, métanoia, ““repentance.") 

Sa eryenan thin wieh Moun bars toad Lea eo bali 

Metasta'sio. The real name of this 
Italian poet was Trapassi (death), He 
was brought up bv Gmyvina, who Urecized 
the name ()/69A-1782). 

*.* So “Melancthon™ is the Greek 
form of Schwarserdé (‘black earth”); 
“(Ecolampadias” is the Gireek form 
the German name //ausscheinn;s “ De- 
sidering Erasmus” is (fAeraerd (7 
the first “‘Gheraerd™ ia \atinized into 

derius, and the latter is Grecized into 
Erasmus), 


Meteoric Stones, In the museam 
of Carlton (Melbourne) is preserved s 
huge meteoric stone twenty-five tons in 
weight. It fell on a large plain between 
Mellourne and Kilmore in 1860, with 
auch force that it eank six feet in the 
ground, Some said it mast have been 
shot from a crater of the moon, 

*.* The larest in the world isin Brazil, 
and exceeds thirty tons, There is another 
in the Imperial Museum at St. Peterabarg, 
of unusual dimensions; and one is pre 
served in Paris. 


Meth’os, Dronkenness personified, 
Ile is twin-brother of Gluttony, their 
mother being Caro (flesAly (ust), In the 
battle of Mansoul, Methos ia slain by 
Agnei'a (wifely chastity) spouse of Eu- 
era'téa (temperance), and sister of Par- 
then'ia (raden chastity). (Greek, methd 
or methds is “dronkennesa,”)— 

The Purple Island, i,’ ti. 





(1634), 


Met'ophis, the corrupt chief minisves 
of Sesostns, 











MICHAL. ose MIDLOTHIAN. 
He used all his efforts to introduce the burgh (Afr. James), 
dewish sabbath and sacrifice. edna pa gal = 
SS aie Heart of atthe (me, George 1) 


Mi in the satire of Absalom and — 
Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is meant 
for Catharine the wife of Charles 11.—Pt. 
ii. (1682), 

Michelot, an unprincipled, cowardly, 

y man, ‘who tries to discover | 
meret of “the gold-mine.” 
procurator of the president of Lyon, bis 
office was ‘‘to capture and arrest 
charged with civil or criminal offences,— 
E. Stirling, The Gold-Mine or Miller of 
Grenoble (1854). 

Pg eo gry the pretended kingdom 

of Dorothea Be ey of Cleonardo of 
Andalusia), a hundred days' journey from 
Meo'tia, and a nine years’ voyage from 
Carthagéna. 


Micomico'na, the pretended queen 
of Micomicon, Don Quixote's adventure 
to Micomiconnia comes to nothing, for he 
was taken home in a cage, almost as soon 
as be was told of the wonderful enchant- 
ments.—Cervantes, Lion Quirote, I. iv. 2 
(1605). 

Mic’romeg’as ("the littlepreat "), 
Voltaire’s imitation of Gullirer's “Travels. 


Mi'das (./ustice), appointed to adjudge 
a musical contest between Pol and Pan. 
He decides in favour of Pan, whereupon 
Pol throws off his disguise, ap a8 
- god Apollo, and, being indignant at 

decision, ives Midas * the ears of an 
—Kane fi Hara, Aidas (1764), 

ov iaward Shuter (1728-1776) was pro- 
nounced by Garrick “‘the greatest comic 
actor;" and C, Dibdin eays: * Nothing 
on earth could have been superior to his 
* Midas.'" 

Midus's Ears. 'The servant who used 
to cut the king's hair, discovering the 
deformity, was afmid to whisper the 
secret to any one, Lut, being unable to 
contain himself, be dug a hole in the 
earth, and, putting his mouth inte it, 
eried out, *‘ King Midas bas asa’s ears ! 
He then filled up the hole, and felt 
relieved. 

Tennyson makes the barber a woman: 

Nu livelier than ihe dame 
That whlkoersd ‘Ages cary” (sic) among the mig 
Tennyeon, Pie Primcces, tL 

Middle India, Abyssinia, the 
country of Prester John.—Bishop Jor- 
danus. 


- 





Middlemas (Wr. Matthew), a nome 
pe nigh 4 neral Witherington. 
cmas, wife of the general 
(hoon Zelia de Moncada). 
Richard Mi 


sha foundli toed iM 
m, a foundling, a to '. 
Gray. He discovers ( at he j is the son of 
genera] Witherington, and goes to India, 


where he assumes the character of Sadoc, 
a black slave in the service of Mde, 
Montreville. He delivers iy iyder Al 
treachery to Tippoo Saib, and H 

gives him up to be crushed to death by 
an ele t.—Sir W. Scott, The Surgeon's 
Dauyhter (time, George II.). 

Middlewick (Mr. Perkyn), a 
tired butterman, the neighbour of A 
Geoffry Champneys, and the father of 
Charles. The butterman is innately 
out of drops avtieds as inserts them 
out o makes the preatest 

hii mew historical blunders, a 
csrianteal temper, but a tender heart. He 
turns his son adrift for marrying Violet 
Melrose an heiress, who anub the 
plebeian father. When reduced to great 
distress, the old butterman goes to his 
son's squalid lodgings and relents. So 
all ends happily. 

Charles Wick iddlewick, son of the retired 
butterman, well educated and a gentle- 
man, His father wanted him to marry 
93 Melrose, a ak without a penny, 
but he preferred Violet an heiress.—H. 
J. Byron, Gur Boys (18765). 

Midge, the miller’s son, one of the 
companions of Robin Hood. (See Mucn.) 
Then #epped forth brave Little Jobo 

Aod Midge the quiller's pon, 
Kolin Mou ate wl Min-a- Dele, 


Midian Mara, the Celtic mermaid, 

Jaey wiiegated ts cadk ether That Bay Sell tenet Ge 
tong of Midian Mars.—The Dark Coflern, b. 

Midlo’thian (Tie Heart of), a tale 
of the Porteous riot, in which the inei- 
dents of Effie and Jeanie Deana are of 
absorbing interest. Effie was seduced 
by Geordie Robertson (alias George 
Staunton), while in the service of Mra, 
Saddletree. She murdered her infant, 
and was condemned to death; but her 
half-sister Jeanie went to London, leaded 
her cause before the queen, and o 
her pardon, Jeanie, on her return to 
Scotland, married Reuben Butler; and 
Geordie Robertson (then~ sir George 
Staunton) married Effie. Sir George 








MILDENDO. 641 





Mildendo, the metropolis of Lilli- 
put, the wall of which was two feet and 
@ half high and eleven inches thick. The 
city was an exact square, and divided 
into four juarters. The emperor's palace, 
called Belfab’ornc, stond in the centre 
of the city.—Swift, (tiullicer’s Travels 
(“ Lilliput,” iv., 1720). 


Mile'sian Fables (Milesie Fubule), 
very wanton and ludicrous tales. Sir 
Edward Bulwer Lytton (lord Lytton) 
published six of the Lost Tales of 
Jiletus in rhymeless verse. He says he 
borrowed them from the seattered rem- 
nants preserved by Apollody'rus and 
Conon, contained in the pages of Pausa’- 
nias and Athenmeus, or dispersed throngh- 
out the Scholiasts, The Milesian tales 
were, for the most part, in prose; but 
Ovid tells us that Aristi’des rendered 
some of them into verse, and Sisenna 
into Latin. 

Junwit Aristhles Milla, carina acm 
Pulsus Aristidis teed ladies urls em est 

The original talea by Antonius Diog'- 
enés are described by Vhotins, It ap 
pears that they were great favourites 
with the luxuriows Sybarites, A eom- 
pilation was made by JAristides, ly whom 
(according ty Ovid) some were versified 
also. The Latin translation bv Sisenna 
was mode about the tine of the eivil 
wars of Ma‘rius and Syila. Darthen‘ius 
Nice’nus, who taught Virgil Greek, bor- 
rewed thirty-six of the tales, which he 
dedicated to Cornelius Gallus, and eno- 


titled Frotitun d'ithemutun § ("* love 
storivs "). 
Milesia Crit, amatory offences. 


Venus was worshipped at Miletus, and 
hence the loose amatory tales of Actoning 
Dioyvenes were entitled Milesie Fill. 


Mile’sians, the “ancient” Irish. 
The legend is that Ireland was once 

ypled by the Fir-bole or Dele from 
sritain, whe were solelucd ly Milesians 
from Asia Miner, called the Gacls of 
Irelani!. 

My femily, by ovr Cuther's obfe, are all the troe oil 
Milesiatva, gol related te Je te Plabertys, and i) Sheng 
tread, Ade Ue Mo Daviy felts, flue OP Demag lo, ala 
ghaus, Wiiemuthicis, and ao) the thek blo of the 
ration: nied 1 oyal) ard ey OO rallies, alae ie thee 
0 Ideat vf then wll.—U Mierklin, Lore d-fa-naate (ITTV) 


Pat's Miles bho beling roused, 
Very Pur Wret faded, 


Milford (Cufonel, a friend of sit 
G-aifrey Tereril.— sir W, Seott, J'ereril 
of the oak (time, Charles 1.). 

Milford (fiw), a. natural son of Widow 
Warren's late Lusband. te was the 





MILLER. 


erony of Harry Dornton, with whom 
he ran “the road to ruin.” Jack had o 
furtune left him, but he soon scattered 
it by his extravagant living, and was 
Imprisoned for debt. Harry then pro- 





| mised to marry Widow Warren if she 


would advance him £6000 to pay off his 
friend's debts with, When Harry's father 
heard of this bargain, he was s0 moved 
that he advanced the money himself; 
and Harry, being set free from his bar- 
gain, marned the widow's daughter in- 
stend of the widow. Thus all were 
rescued from ‘‘the road to ruin,”"—Hol- 
croft, Te Road to Ruin (1792). 


Milk-Pail (Tie), which was to gain 
afortune. (See PERRETTE.) 


Milk Street (London), the old Milk- 
market, Here sir Thomas More wus 
born. 


Millamant, the pretendue of Edward 
Mirabell. She is most brilliant girl, 
who says she “loves to give pain be- 
cause cruelty is a proof of power; and 
when one parta with one's cruelty, one 
parts with one’s power." Millamant is 
far cone in poetry, and her heart is not 
in her own keeping. Sir Wilful Wit- 
would makes love to her, but she detests 
““the superannuated lul)ber.”"—W. Con. 
greve, The Woy of the World (1700). 

There oever we a more perirc® repreeniation of 
feminine wrearliy thas Mise ML Tree's Mitlanawat™ oF 
“lel Townly “—« viveckty fuwing from the Lig: -heart 
odo of a inte gent and gentle girl—Talfourd (VASLL 

Miller (James), the “tiger” of tha 
Hen. Mr. Flammer. James was brought 
up in the stable, educated on the turf and 
pre, polished and completed in the fives- 
court. He was engaged to Mary Chints, 
the maid of Miss Mloomtield.—CU. Selby, 
The Cap ished Gentleman, 


Miller (Joe), James Tallantyne, author 
of Cid Joe Miller, by the Lditur of New 
J.J, three vola. (is01). 

*.* Mottley compiled a jest-book in 
the ren of James II., entitled Jug 
Miller's Jests. The phrase, “That's «4 
Joe Miller,” means “that’s @ stale jest” 
or "that’s a jest from Mottley's book.” 


Miller (Maximilian Christopher), the 


| Saxon piant; height, eight feet, His 


hand nivasared a foot; bia second finger 
was nine inches long; bis head unusually 
large. He wore a rich Hungarian jacket 
and a have plumed cap. This giant was 
exhibited in Londen in the year 1735, 
He died aged 60; was born at Leipsie 
(1074-1734). ‘ 

ef 








MINCING. 


Min'cing, lady‘'s-maid to Millamant. 
She says mem for ma'am, jit for fought, 
la’ship for ladyship, etc.—W. Congreve, 
The Way of the World (1700), 


Mincing Lane (London), a corrup- 
tion of Minicen Lane. So called from 
the Minicens or nuns of St. Helen, who 
had tenements in Dishopsyate Street. 


Min'cius, a Venetian river which | 
incil was born at | 


falls into the Po. V 


Gawoth-sliding Mincios, crowned with vocal reeds, 
Milton, Lyetaias, 85 | Lua). 

Minikin (Zord), married to a cousin 
of sir John Trotley, but, according to bon 
ton, ho flirts with Miss Tittup; and Miss 
Tittup, who is engaged to colonel Tivy, 
flirts with a married man. 

Lady Minikin, wife of lord Minikin, 
According to bon ton, she hates her 
husband, and flirts with colonel Tivy ; 
and colonel Tivy, who is engaged to Miss 
Tittup, flirts with a married woman, It 
is bon tun to do so.—Garrick, Bon Tun 
(1760). 

Minjekah'wun, Hiawatha's mittens, 
made of deer-akin. When Hiawatha had 
his mittens ou, he could smite the hardest 
rocks asunder. 

He [| ficwarha] had mittens, Minjokahwun, 
mites nade of deer-skin ; 
When upon bis hands be wore them, 
He could aulte the rocks aaunder. 
Lonrialluw, iawathea, iv, (LEB), 

Minna and Brenda, two beautiful 
girls, the daughters of Magnus Troil the 
old udaller of Zetland, Minna was 
stately in forni, with dark eves and raven 
locks; credulous and vain, but not 

iddy ; enthusiastic, talented, and warm- 

earted. She loved captain Clement 
Cleveland ; but Cleveland! was killed in 
an encounter on the Spanish main. 
Brenila bad golden hair, a bloom on ber 
checks, a fairy form, and 4 serene, 
cheerful disposition. 
heroine than her sister, but more the 
loving and conliding woman. 
ried Murdaunt Mertuun (ch, iii.).—sit 
We Seott, The J'irule (time, William 

I). 


Minneha‘ha (“the lawzhing water"), 
dauyhter of the arruw-makerof Daco'tah, 
anil wife of bliawatha. She was called 
Minnehaha from the waterfall of that 
name between St. Anthony and Fort 
Snelling. 

Frem the waterfall, he named her 
Minnekals, Lash 


She was less the | 


She mar- | 





MINOTTI. 


Minnesingers, the Troubadours of 
Germany during the Hohenstaufen pe- 
riod (1158-1294), minstrels who com- 
posed and song short lyrionl poems—usu- 
ally in praise of women or iu celebration 
of the beauties of pature-—called Minne, or 
love, songs. The names of nearly threo 
hundred of these poets have oome down 
to oa, ineluding all classes of society, 
the most famous being Dietmar von Aist, 
Ulrich von Lichtenstein, Heinrich von. 
Frauenlob, and above all Walther ron 
der Vogelweide (1168-1230). Wolfram 
von Eschenbach, Gottfried von 5tras- 
burg, and Hartmann yon der Aue are 
also classed among the Minnesingers, 
but their principal fame was won in the 
field of metrical romance. 


Mino'na, “the soft-blushing dangh- 
ter of Torwan,” a Gaelic bard in the 
Songe of Selma, one of the most famous 
portions of Macpherson’s Ovsian. 


Minor (The), a comedy by Samuel 
Foote (1760). Sir George Wealthy, “‘the 
minor,” was the son of sir illiam 
Wealthy, a retired merchant. He was 
educated ata public school, sent to col- 
lege, and finished his training in Paris. 
His father, hearing of his extravagant 
habits, pretended to be dend, and, 
agssuininy the guise of a German baron, 
employed several persons to dodge the 
lad, some to be winners in bis gambling, 
some to lend money, some to cater to 
other folliea, till he was apparently on the 
brink of ruin. His aie, Mr. Richard 
Wealthy, a City merchant, wanted his 
daughter Lucy to marry a wealthy 
trader, and as she refused to do go, 
he turned her out of doors. This yom 
lady was brought to sir George as a fil 
de joie, but she touched his heart by her 
manife-t innocence, and he not only 
relicved her present necessities, but 
removed her to am asylum where her 
“innocent beauty would be guarded from 





| temptation, and her deluded innocence 


would be rescued from infamy.” The 
whole scheme now burst as a bubble, 
Sir George's father, proud of his son, told 
him he was his fnther, and that bis losses 
were only fictitious; and the uncle 
melted into a better mood, gave his 
daughter to his nephew, and blessed the 
boy for rescuing his disearded child, 
Minotti, governor of Corinth, then 
under the power of the doge. In 1715, ~ 
the city waa stormed uy the Turks ; 
during the siege one of the mayazines is 








MIRAMONT. 


her was that she should ‘ride on a mangy 
jade, accompanied by a fool, till she had 
saved as many lovers as she had slain” 
(canto 7). Mirabella was also doomed to 
carry a leaky bottle which she was to fill 
with tears, and a torn wallet which she 
was to fill with repentance ; but her tears 
and her repentance dropped out as fast as 
they were put in, and were trampled 
under foot by Scorn (canto 8).—Spenser, 
Faéry Queen, vi. 6-8 (1596). 

*,* “ Mirabella” is supposed to be meant 
for Rosalind, who jilted Spenser, and 
who is called by the poet ‘‘a widow's 
daughter of the len, and poor.” 


Mir’amont, brother of justice Brisac, 
and uncle of the two brothers Charles 
(the scholar) and Eustace (the courtier). 
Miramont is an ignorant, testy old man, 
but a great admirer of learning and 
echolars.—Lseaumont and Fletcher, The 
Elder Brother (1637). 


Miran’da, daughter of Prospero the 
exiled duke of Milan. and niece of An- 
thonio the usurping duke. She is brought 
up on a desert island, with Ariel the fairy 
spirit, and Cal’iban the monster, as her 
only companions. Ferdinand. son of the 
king of Naples, being shipwrecked on 
the island, falls in love with her, and 
marries her.—Shakespeare, Lhe Zempest 
(1609). 

Identifying herself with the druple yet noble-minded 
Miranda in the isle of wonder and exachantment —s8ir W. 
Bott. 

Mirand1, an heiress, the ward of sir 
Francis Gripe. As she must obtain his 
consent to her marriaye before she could 
obtain possession of her fortune, she 
pretended to love him, althouzh he was 
64 years old; and the old fool believed it. 
When, therefore, Miranda asked his con- 
sent to marry, he readily gave it, thinking 
himself to be the man of her choice ; 
but the aly little hussy laushed at her 
old guardian, and plizhted her troth to 
sir George Airy, a man of 24.—Mr. 
Centlivre, Zhe Jiusy Body (1709). 


Mir’ja, one of the six Wise Men of 
the East, led by the jruiding star to Jesus, 
Mirja had five sens, who followed his 
holy life.—Klopstock, Zhe M€esswh, v. 
(1771). 

Mirror (Alasnmium's), a mirror which 
showed Alasnam if ‘‘a beautiful irl 
was alao chaste and virtuous.” The 
mirror was called ‘tthe touchstone of 
virtue."—Arabian Nights (“Prince Zeyn 
Alasuam "’). 


ee ee ee ewe em ee ee ee ee 


645 MIRROR. 


oe eee eee 


Mirror (Cambuscan’s), a mirror sent 
to Cambuscan’ king of Tartary by the 
king of Araby and Ind. lt showed 
those who consulted it if any adversity 
was about to befall them; if any in- 
dividual they were interested in was 
friend or foe; and if a person returned 
love for love or not.—Chaucer, Canterdury 
Tales (‘* The Squire's Tale,” 1388). 

*.* Sometimes called = ‘“ é’a 
Mirror,” but incorrectly so. 





Mirror (Kelly's), Dr. Dee's speculum. 
Kelly was the doctor's speculator or seer. 
The speculum resembled a ‘piece of 
polished cannel coal.” 

Kelly dil all his feats upon 
The devil's luoking-ginas, a stone, 
8. Butler, Mudibras (1683-78). 

Mirror ([ao's), a looking-glass which 
reflected the mind as well as the outward 
form.—Goldsmith, Citizen of the World, 
xlv. (1759). 


Mirror (Merlin’s Magic) or Venus's 
looking-glass, fabricated in South 
Wales, in the days of king Rvyence. It 
would show to those that looked therein 
anything which pertained to them, any- 
thiny that a friend or foe was doing. It 
was round like a sphere, and was given 
by Merlin to king Ryence. 

That never foes his kinxdom might invade 
But he it knew at bome before he beard 
Tidings thereof. 

Britomart, who was king Ryence's 
daughter and heiress, saw in the mirror her 
future husband, and also his name, which 
was sir Artegal.—Spenser, Fuéry Queen, 
Hii. 2 (1590). 


Mirror (Prester John's), a mirror which 
possessed similar virtues to that made by 

erlin. Prester John could see therein 
whatever was taking place in any part of 
his dominions. 

*," Dr. Dee's speculum was alsu 
spherical, and possessed a similar reputed 
virtue. 


Mirror (Reynard’s Wonderful). This 
mirror existed only in the brain of 
Master Fox. He told the queen lion that 
whoever looked therein could see what 
was being done a mile off. The wood of 
the frame was part of the same block 
out of which Crampart’s magic horse was 
made.—feynard the Fox, xii. (1498). 


Mirror (Venus'’s), generally called 
** Venus'’s looking-glass,” the same as 
Merlin's magic mirror (y.0.). 


Mirror (Vulcan's). Vulcan made a 








MISHE-NAHMA. 


Mudjekeewis,—Longfellow, Hiawatha, 
i. (1855). 





Mishe-Nah'ma, the great sturgeon, 
“king of fishes," subdued by Hiawatha. 
With this labour, the “great teacher” 
taught the Indians how to make oil for 
winter. When Hiawatha threw hia line 
for the sturgeon, that king of fishes first 

a pike to swallow the bait and 
to break the line, but Hiawatha 
threw it back into the water. Next, a 
sun-fish was persuaded to try the bait, 
with the same result. Then the sturgeon, 
m anger, swallowed Hiawatha and canoe 
also; but Hiawatha smote the heart of 
the sturgeon with his fist, and the ki 
of fishes swam to the shore and die 
Then the sea-guils opened a rift in the 
dead body, out of which Hiawatha made 
his escape. 
"Thave slain the Mishé- Nahm, 
Blain the king of fubes,” sald be, 


Misnar, sultan of India, transformed 
Ulin into a toad. ‘‘ He was disen- 
ted by the dervise Shemshel’nar, the 
most ‘‘ pious worshipper of Alla amongst 
all the sons of Asia.” By prudence and 
piety, Misnar and his vizier Horam de- 
stroyed all the enchanters which filled 
India with rebellion, and having secured 

ee, married Ilem'junah, daughter of 
S henaee sultan of Cassimir, to whom 
he had been betrothed when he was 
known only as the prince of Georgia.— 
Sir C. Morell [J. Ridley], Tales of the 
Genis, vi., Vii. (1751). 

Misog’onus, by Thomas Rychardes, 
the third English comedy (1560). It is 
written in rhyming quatrains, and not in 
couplets like RalpA Aoister Doister and 
Gammer Gurton's Needle. 

Misquote. 

With jot enongh of learning to misyoote. 

Byron, Eay/iA Sards and Seated Reviewers | LE), 

Miss in Her Teens, a farce by David 
Garrick (1753). Miss Diddy Bellair is in 
love with captain Laveit, who is known 
to her only by the name of Khodophil; 
but she coqueta with captain Flash and 
Mr. Fribble, while her aunt wants her to 
marry an elderly man by the name of 
Stephen Loveit, whom she detesta, When 
the captain returns from the wara, ahe 
sets captain Flash and Mr, Fribble to- 
en by the esrs ; and while they stand 

nting each other but afraid to fight, 
captain Loveit enters, recognizes Flash 
as 6 deserter, takes away his sword, and 
dismisses Fribble as beneath contempt. 


647 














MITA. 
Mississippi Bubble, the “South 
Sea scheme” of France, plone by 
John Law, a ! an. called be- 


cause the projector was to have the 
exclusive trade of Lousiana, on the banks 
of the Mississippi, on condition of his 
taking on himself the National Debt 
(incorporated 1717, failed 1720). 
The debt was 208 millions 
Law made himeelf sole creditor of 
debt, and was allowed to issue ten times 
the amount in paper money, and to 
= per Royal ger of France” em- 
we to issue this pa currency. 
| long 8. 20-franc note was worth 


20 francs, the scheme was a prodigies 
success, but immediately paper 
money was at a discount, a run on the 


bank set in, and the whole scheme 
burst. 


Mistletoe Bough (The). The 
song so called is by Thomas Haynes 
Bayley, who died 1849, The tale is this: 
Lord Lovel married a young lady, a 
baron's daughter, and on the wedding 
night the bride prone that the guests 
should play *' hide-and-seek.” The bride 
hid in an old oak chest, and the lid, 
falling down, shot her in, for it went 
with a spring-lock. Lord Lovel sought 
her that night and sought her next da 
and so on fora week, bat nowhere cou 
he find her. Some years after, the old 
oak chest was sold, which, on being 
opened, was found to contain the skeleton 
of the bride. 

Rogers, in his Jialy, gives the same 
story, and calls the lady “‘Ginevra”™ of 
Modéna, 

Collet, in his Felics of Literature, has » 
similar story. 

Another is inserted in the Causes Cel¢- 


bres. 
Marwell Old Hall (near Winchester) 
once the residence of the Seymours, and 
afterwards of the Dacre family, has a 


similar tradition attached to it, and 


(necording to the Host-Ufice Directory) 

“the very chest is pow the property of 
, rector of Upham * 
| 


| the Rev. J. Haygarth 


(which joins Marwell). 

Iiramshall, Hampehire, has 4 similar 
tale and chest. tt 

The great house at Malsanger, pear 
Basingstoke, also in Hampshire, has a 
similar tradition connected with it, 

Mi'ta, sister of Aude. She married 
sir Miton de Rennes, and became the 
mother of Mitaine, (See next art,)— 
Croquemitaine, XV. 








MOCKING-BIRD. 


imto compliance, and taken to the patient. 
He soon learns the facta of the case, and 
employs Leander as apothecary. Lean- 
der makes the lady speak, and completes 
his cure with "pills matrimoniac." Sir 
Jasper takes the joke in good part, and 
becomes reconciled to the alliance. 


Mocking-Bird. “ During the space 
of a minate, I have heard it Faitate the 


woodlark, chaffinch, blackbird, thrush, | 


and sparrow. - 8 @ Their few natural 

notes resemble those of the nightingale 

but their song is of greater compass anc 

mone varied."—Ashe, Travels in America, 
73. 


a famous Arabian robber, 
whose name is synonymous with “thief.” 
(See ALMANzOR, the caliph, p. 24.) 


Mode (Sir William), in Mrs. Cent- 
livre's drama The Beau's Duel (1703). 


Mode'love (Sir Philip), one of the 
four guardians of Anne Lovely the 
heiress. Sir Philip is an “old beau, that 
has May in his fancy and dress, bat 
December in his face and his heels. He 
sdmires all new fashions . . . loves 
operas, balla, and masqueradesa™ (act i. 1). 

lone! Freeman personates a French 
fop, and obtains his consent to marry his 
ward, the heiresa.—Mrs. Centlivre, A 
Bold Stroke for a Wife (1717). 


Modely, 2 man of the world, aay 
fashionable, and a libertine. Ile had 
ecores of “lovers,” but never loved till 
he saw the little rustic lass named Aura 
Freehold, a farmer's daughter, to whom 
be proposed matrimony.—John Philip 
Kemble, The Farm-/owse, 


Modish (/ady Fetty), really in love 
with Jord Morelove, but treats him with 
Assumed scorm or indifference, because 
her pride prefers “power to ease.” 
Hence she coquets with lord Foppington 
(a married man), to mortify foots bie 
and arouse his jealousy. Hy the advice 
of sir Charles Easy, lord Morelove pays 
her out in her own coin, by flirting with 
lady Groveaira, and assuming an air of 
indifference. Ultimately, lady Hetty is 
reduced to comnion sense, and gives her 
heart and hand to lord Murelove.—Coiley 
Cibber, The Cnreless f/usband (1704), 

Mrs, Oldfield excellently acted “lady 
Betty Modish” (says Walpole); and 
T. Davies eaye of Mrs. Pritchard (1711- 
1763); **She conceived accurately and 
acted pleasantly ‘Indy Townly,’ ‘ lady 
Betty Modish,' and ‘Maria’ in The Non- 

28 





| adulte 





MODRED. 
."_ Mrs. Blofield is called “ Indy 


| ‘Betty Modish” in The Tutler, No. x. 


Modo, the fiend that urges to murder, 


= one Bm five that ssed “‘ poor 
fom.” —Shakea Lear, act iv. 
sc. 1 (1605). peare, Aing ’ 

son of Lot king of Norway 


and Anne own sister of king Arthur 
(pt. viii, 215 ix. a He ia always called 
“the traitor.” ile king Arthur was 
absent, warring with the Romans, Mo- 
dred was left | bot osu the 
crown, and married his aunt the queen 
(pt. x. 15). When Arthurheard thereof, he 
returned, and attacked the usurper, who 
fled to Winchester (pt. xi. 1). » king 
followed him, and Modred drew up his 
army at Cambula, in Cornwall, where 
another battle was fought. Inthis 
met Modred was alain, and Arthur 

received his death-wound ( pt. xi, 2). The 
queen, called Goanhoma'ra (but better 
known as Gwen'ever), retired to a convent 


| in the City of Legions, and entered the 


order of Juliug the Martyr (pt. xi. 1).— 
Geoffrey, British History (1142). 

*.* This is a0 very different to the 
accounts given in Arthurian romance of 
Mordred, that it is better to give the 
two names as if they were different 

(Sir), nephew of 


individuals, 

Modred —_ 
Arthur. He hated sir Lancelot, ar 
sowed discord among the knights of the 
Round Table. Tennyson says that 
Modred ‘tampered with the lords of 
the White Horse,” the brood that Hen- 
gist left. Geoffrey of Monmouth says, 

e made a league with Cheldric the 
Saxon leader in Germany, and promised 
to give him all that part of England 
which lies between the Humber and 
Scotland, together with all that Hengist 
and Horea held in Kent, if he would aid 
him inst king Arthur. Accordingly 
Cheldrc came over with 800 ny 8 ed 
“with pagan soldiers" (GrntisA History, 


xi. 1). 
Ww a the king was in Brittany, whither 


he had gone to chastise sir Lancelot for 
with the queen, he left sir 
Mod regent, and sir Modred raised a 
revolt. The king returned, drew up his 
anny inst the traitor, and in this 
“great battle of the West” Modred was 
slain, and Arthur received his death- 
wound,—Tennyson, Jdylls of the King 
(‘* Guinevere,” 1858). 

*," This version is in accordance 
neither with Geoffrey of Monmouth (see 








MOIDART. — 
earringe os it was passing down Pall 
Mall. 


*.” Elizabeth Perey, within three 
months of the murder, married the duke 
of Somerset. 


Moidart (Join of), captain of the 
clan Ronald, and a chief in the army of 
Montrcss.—Sir W. Scott, Legend of 
Montrose (time, Charles [.). 

Moi'na (2 syl.), daughter of Reutha’- 
mir the principal man of Balclu'tha, a 
town on the Clyde, belonging to the 
Britons. Moina married Clessammor 
(the maternal uncle of Fingal), and died 
in childbirth of ber son Carthon, during 
the absence of her busband.—Ossian, 
Carthon, 





Mokanna, the name given to Hakem 
ben Haschem, from a silver gauze 
veil worn by him “‘to dim the Instre of 
his face,” or rather to hide its extreme 
ugliness, The history of this impostor 
is given by LD 'Herbelot, Jidbliothéque 
Orientale (1697). 

*.* Mokanna forms the first story of 
Lalla Rookh (‘‘The Veiled Prophet of 
’ Khorassan"), by Thomas Moore (1417). 

Mokattam (Jfount), near Cairo 

ypt), noted for the massacre of the 
ipp Hakem B'amr-ellah, who was 
iven out to be incarnate deity and the 

t prophet who communicated between 
God and man (eleventh century). Here, 
also, fell in the same massacre his chief 
prophet, and many of his followers, In 
eonsequence of this persecution, Durzi, 
one of the “prophets” chief apostles, 
led the survivors into Syria, where they 
pettled between the Libanua and Anti- 
Libanus, and took the name of Durzis 
corrupted into Lruses, 

As the khallf vanished erst, 
seemed death tu uilostructad eyes, 

On red Mokattam's verge 

Robert Browning, Tie Aiturn of he Drea, 1 

Molay (Jacques), grand-master of 

the Knights Templars, as he was led to 


the stake, summoned the pope (Clement | 


vel within forty days, and the king 
(Philippe IV.) within forty weeks, to 
appear before the throne of God to answer 


for his death. They both died within 
the stated periods, (See SuMMONS TO 
DrarTu.) 


Moliére (The Italian), Charlo Gol- 
doni (1707-1793). 


Mouliére (The Spanish), Leandro Fer- and Betlzebub second, The word means 


nandez Moratin (1/60-1428). 
Moll Cutpurse, Mary Frith, who 


bois 


= 


MOLOCH. 


once attacked general Fairfax on Houns- 
low Heath. 

Moll Flanders, a woman of great 
beauty, born in the Old Bailey. She 
was twelve years a courtezan, five years 
a wife, twelve years a thief, eight . 
convict in Virginia ; but ultimat 


. y grew 
| rich, and died a penitent in the reign of 
Charies I1 


*," Daniel Defoe wrote her life and 
adventures, which he called The Fortunes 
of Moll Fianders (1722). 


Molly, Jaggers's housekeeper. A 
aemerton: scared-looking woman, with 
® deep sear across one of her wrists, 
ir Sresma ne full of m . 
and Pip suspected her of being ‘3 
mother.—C. Dickens, Great Expectations 
(1860). : 
Molly Maggs, a oung house- 
oa love with Repay She hates 
Polyglot the tutor of ‘‘ Master Charles,” 
but is very fond of Charles. Molly tries 
to get “the tuterer Polypot" into oa 
scrape, but finds, to her consternation, 
that Master Charles is in reality the 
party to be blamed.—J. Poole, The 
Scapegoat, 

Molly Maguires, stout, active 
young men dressed up in women's 
clothes, with faces blackened, or other- 
wise disguised. This secret society was 
organized in 1848, to terrify the officials 
employed by Irish landlords to distrain 
for rent, either by grippers (bumbailiffs), 
process-servers, keepers, or driv 
sons who unpound cattle till the rent w 
paid).—W. 3S. Trench, Realities of Irish 
Life, 82. 

Molly Mog, an innkeeper’s daughter 
at Dokoaiienn Deeks. Molly Mog. was 
the tuast of all the gay sparks in the 
former half of the eihteenth century ; 
but died o spinster at the age of 
(1699-1766). 

*,* Gay has a ballad on this Fair Maid 
of the Jun. Mr. Standen of Arborfield, 

e “enamoured swain,” died in 1750, 
Molly's sister was quite as beautiful os 
“‘the fair maid" herself. A portrait of 
Gay stil) hangs in Oakingham inn, 


Molmu'tius, (See MuLmurics.) 


Mo'loch (ch = 4), the third in rank 
of the Satanic hierarchy, Satan being first, 


“king.” The rabbings aay the idol wns 
of brass, with the head of a calf, 








MONEYTRAP. 658 








MONKBARNS. 





He loved Clara Douglas, a poor de- 
pass of lady Franklin, proposed to her, 

ut was not accepted, ‘because both 
were too poor to keep house.” A large 
fortune being left to the poor scholar, he 

roposed to Georgina, the daughter of sir 
ohn Vesey; but Georgina loved sir 
Frederick Blount, and marred him, 
Evelyn, who loved Clara, pretended to 
have lost his fortune, and, being satisfied 


that she really loved him, proposed a | 


second time, and was accepted, 


Moneytrap, husband of Araminta, 
but with a tendre for Clarisan the wife of 


his frend Grpe.—Sir John Vanbrugh, | 


Tie Confederacy (1695). 

Kone who ever aie Parsons (1730-1705)... con forget 
hie effective mode of exclaiming. while representing the 
character of the gmercu och “Money trap.” “Eb! how 
long will it be, Flippanta? —C. Lilelin, 


Monflathers (Miss), mistreas of a 
boarding and day establishment, to whom 
Mrs. Jarley sent little Nell, to ask her to 
nae the wax-work collection. Misa 

fonflathers received the child with frigid 

virtue, and said to her, ‘* Don't you think 
you must be very wicked to be a wax- 
work child? Don't you know it is very 
naughty to be a wax child when you 
Might bave the proud consciousness of 
assisting, to the extent of your infant 
powers, the noble manufactures of your 
country?" (Qne of the teachers here 
chimed in with ‘‘Tiow doth the little—,;" 
bot Miss Monflathers remarked, with an 
indignant frown, that ‘the little busy 
bee” applied only to genteel children, and 
the “works of labour and of ekill” to 
painting and embroidery, not to vulgar 
children and wax-work shows.—Charles 
Dickens, The Old Curivaity Shop, xxxi. 
(1840). 


Monford, the lover of Charlotte | 
He plans various devices to | 


Whimsrv. 
hoodwink her old father, in order to elope 
with the dauchter—James Cobb, The 
First Floor (1756-1818). 

Monime (2 s,/.), in Racine’s tragedy 
of Witiridute. This was one of Malle. 
Rachel's great characters, first performed 
by her in 1sJs. 


Monim’ia, ‘‘the orphan,” sister of 
Chamunt and ward of lord Acasto. 
Monimia waa in love with Acasto’s son 
Castalio, and privately married him. 
Polvdore (the brother of Castalio) also 
loved her, but his love was dishonourable 
love, Hy treachery, Polvdure obtained 
admission to Minimia's chaniber, and 
passed the bridal night with her, Monimia 





supposing him to be her husband; but 
when next day she discovered the deceit, 
she poisoned herself ; and Polydore, being 
apprised that Monimia was his brother's 
wife, proraned a quarrel with him, ran 
on his brother's sword, and died.—Otway, 
The Orphan (1680). 

More tears have been shed for the sorrows of “ Belvi- 
déra” and “ Monimia,” than for those of " Juliet” and 
“ Deaiemona."—Sir W, Scott, The Grama, 

Monim'ia, in Smollett's novel of Cound 
Fathom (1754). 

Moniplies (Richie), the honest, self- 
willed Scoteh servant of lord Nigel Cli- 
faunt of Glenvarloch.—Sir W, Scott, 
Fortunes of Niel (time, James 1.). 


Monk (¢ ), introduced by sir 
Walter Scott in Woodstock (time, tom- 
monwealth). 


Monk (The Bird Singing to a). The 
monk ia Felix, who listened to a bird for 
® hundred years, and thought the time 
only an hour.—Longfellow, The Golden 
Lejend, ii, (1851), 


Monk (The), a novel, by Matthew G. 
Lewis (1794). 

Monk Lewis, Matthew Gregory 
rt so called from his novel (1773- 

418). 


Monk of Bury, John Lydgate, poet, 
who wrote the Sieye o Troy. the Story af 
Thebes, and the Full of Princes (137 
1460). 

Nothynge | am exparte In poetry, 
Stephen * apsnnyg Ag aherondale Planere (LOLA, 

Monk of Westminster, Richard 

of Cirencester, the chronicler (fourteenth 
century). 
_ This chronicle, On the Ancient State of 
Brituin, was first brought to light in 
1747, by Dr. Charles Julius Bertram, 
professur of English at Copenhagen ; but 
the oryinal being no better known than 
that of Thomas Rowley's poems, pub- 
lished by Chatterton, grave suspicions 
exist that Dr. Hertram was himself the 
author of the chronicle. 

Monks ( The Futher of), Ethelwold of 
Winchester (*-954). 

Monks, alias Edward Leeford, a violent 
man, subject to fits, Edw Leeford, 
though half-brother to Oliver Twist, was 
in collusion with Bill Sikes to min him, 
Failing in this, he retired to America, 

id died in jail.—U. Dickens, Oliwer 

wivt (1837). 


Monkbarns (Laird of), Mr. Jonathan 








MONT ST. JEAN. 665 


MONTESINOS. 





of enormous strength and insatiable appe- 
tite. He was bandy-legged, had an 
elastic stomach, and four rows of teeth. 
He was a paladin of Charlemagne, and 
one of the four sent in search of Croque- 
mitaine and Fear Fortress.—Croquemi- 
taine. 

Mont St. Jean or WarerLoo. &- 
and-s9 was my Mont St. Jean, means it 
was my coup de gruce, my final blow, the 
end of the end. 


vue Pie Moscow [turning-point], and Faliero 
My Laipale [downfall] and my Mont 8t. Jean ecoms 
a. 


Byron, Don Juan, xi. 56 (1834). 


Mont St. Michel, in Normandy. 
Here nine druidesses used to sell arrows 
to sailors to charm away storms. The 
arrows had to be discharged by a young 
man 25 years of age. 

The Laplanders drove a profitable trade 
by selling winds to sailors. Even so late 
as 1814, Bessie Millie, of Pomona (Ork- 
ney Islands), helped to eke out a liveli- 
hood by selling winds for sixpence. 

Eric king of Sweden could make the 
winds blow from any quarter he liked by 
a turn of hiscap. Hence he was nick- 
named ‘‘ Windy Cap.” 

Mont Trésor, in France; so called 
by Gontran ‘‘the Good,” king of Bur- 
gundy (sixteenth century). One day, 
weary with the chase, Gontran laid him- 
self down near a small river, and fell 
asleep. The ‘squire, who watched his 
master, saw a little animal come from the 
king’s mouth, and walk to the stream, 
over which the ‘squire laid his sword, and 
the animal, running across, entered a hole 
in the mountain. When Gontran was 
told of this incident, be said he had 
dreamt that he crossed a bridye of steel, 
aod, having entered a cave at the foot of 
& mountain, entered a palace of gold. 
Gontran employed men to undermine the 
hill, and found there vast treasures, which 
he employed in works of charity and re- 
ligion. In order to commemorate this 
event, he called the hill Mont Trésor.— 
Claud Paradin, Symbola Jferovica. 

*,* This story has been ascribed to 
numerous persons. 


Mon’tague (3 sy/.), head of a noble 
he age in Verona, at feudal enmity with 
the house of Capilet. Komeo belonged 
to the former, and Juliet to the latter 
house. 

Lady Muntayue, wife of lord Montague, 
and mother of Komeo. — Shakespeare, 
Romeo and Juliet (1598). 


Montalban. 
Don Kyrie Elyson de Montalban, a hero 
v Fomance, in the Llistory of Tirante the 
ste, 
Thomas de Montalban, brother of don 
Kyrie Elyson, in the same romance of 


chivalry. 

Rinaldo de Montalban ahero of romance, 
in the Mirror of Knighthood, from which 
work both Bojardo and Ariosto have 
largely borrowed. 


Mon'talban', now called Montauban (a 
contraction of Mons Alba’nus), in France, 
in the department of Tarn-et-Garonne. 

Te ean 

Montal'ban (The count), in love with 
Volanté (3 syl.) daughter of Balthazar, 
In order to sound her, the count disguised 
himself as a father confessor; but Vo- 
lanté detected the trick instantly, and 
said to him, ‘‘Come, come, count, pull off 
your lion's hide, and confess yourself an 
ass.” However, as Volanté really loved 
him, all came right at last.—J. Tobin, 
The Honeymoon (1804). 


Montanto (Siynor); 2 master of fence 
and a great braggart.—Ben Jonson 
Man in His Humour (1598). yeeery 


Montargis (The of), named 
Dragon. It belonged tones ie Aubri 
de Montdidier, and is especially noted for 
his fight with the chevalier Richard 
Macaire. The dog was called Montargis, 
because the encounter was depicted over 
the chimney of the great hall in the 
castle of Montargis. It was in the forest 
of Bondi, close by this castle, that Aubri 
was assassinated. 


Montenay (Sir Philip de), an old 
English knight.—Sir W. Scott, Castle 
Danyerves (time, Henry I.). 


Montenegro. The natives say: 
“When God was distributing stones over 
the earth, the bag that held them burst 
over Montenegro,” which accounts for 
the stoniness of the land. 


Montesi’nos, a legendary hero, who 
received some affront at the French 
court, and retired to La Mancha, in 
Spain. Tere he lived in a cavern, some 
sixty feet deep, called ‘‘ The Cavern of 
Montesinos.” Don Quixote descended 
part of the way down this cavern, and 
fell into a trance, in which he saw Mon- 
tesinos himself, Durandarté and Belerma 
under the spell of Merlin, Dulcin’ea del 
Tvuboso enchanted into a countrv wench, 








MONTSERRAT. 








MOON-DROP. 





pears first disguised as Anderson, vervent 

of the earl of Menteith.—Sir W. 

Legend of Montrose (time, Charles I,). 
Montserrat (Conrade oo us o 

a crusader.—Sir W, Scott, The slimmed 

(time, Richard J.). 


Moody (Join), the guardian of Peggy 
Thrift an heiress, whom he brings up 
in the country, wholly without society. 
John Moody t morose, suspicious, and 
unzocial. When 50 years of age, and 
Peggy 19, he wants to marry: her, bat 
is outwitted by “‘the country girl,” who 


prefers Belville, a young man of more | 


suitable age. 

Alithea Moody, sister of John. She 
jilts Sparkish a conceited fop, and mar- 
res Harcourt.—The Country Girl (Gar- 
rick, altered from Wycherly). 


Mooma, younger sister of Yeriti. 
Their father and mother were the only 
persons of the whole Guarini race who 
esca a semall-pox plague which 
corithed that part of Rameniay. They 
left the fatal spot and lived in the Mondai 
woods, where both their children were 
born. Before the birth of Mooma, her 
father was eaten by a jagiar, and the 
three survivors lived in the woods alone, 
When grown toa youthful age, a Jesuit 
priest persuaded them to come and live at 
St. Joachin (3 sy/.); so ther left the wild 
woods for a city life. Here the mother 
soon flagged and died. Moomna lost her 
spirits, was haunted with thick-comin 
fancies of good and bad angels, and died” 
Veruti begged to be baptized, received 
the rite, cned, “‘ Ye are come for me! I 
am ready ;" and died alao.—Southey, A 
Tale of Paraguay (1814). | 


Moon (Zhe) increases with horns 
towards the east, but wanes with horns 
towards the west. 

The Moon. Danté makes the moon the 
first planetary heaven, ‘the tardicst 
sphere of all the ten," and assigned to 
those whose vows ‘‘were in some part 
neglected and made void" (canto iii.). 

It meme! io mg oe if ochre baal covered im, 

Trandocnnt, cell, fir, arel polished bright 

Like adamant which the sun's bru hed aif, 

Withio iterdf the everduring pearl (fhe moon] 
firreive] os, as tie wae a ray of Light 
elie, end recy woler chen 

Dasts, Parmediee, Ul. (1311) 

Boon (Blue) “Once in a blue moon,” 
very occasionally, once in oe while, 
Similar to ** Greek kalendds,” 

"Leow be offen come of an @rening?" ashe Jennie 
© Ob, jut ono iia bhie moun, ond ihen aleays wilh 
@iewd."—B5. iL Busiua, Jennie of the Prime's, U. 140 


essences of the 





Moon (Man in the), said to be Cain, 
with a bundle of thorns. 
Now doth Calin with fork of thorns confine 


On either hemisphere, teuching the ware 
Beoeth the towers of Geville, Yesternight 
The moon waa pound, 


Danté, Melt, cx (1200), 

Moon (Spots in the), 
Beatrice say that these spots are not due 
to diversity of density or rarity, for, if 
so, in eclipses of the sun, the sun would 
be seen through the rare portions of the 


| moon more or less distinctly. She says 
different 


the spots are wholly due to the di 
planet,” which reflect 
in different ways the efflmence of the 
heaven, “which peace divine inhabits." 
sm Do a np 
Danté, Porwdise, iL (311). 


Milton makes Raphael tell Adam that 


| the spota on the moon are due to clouds 


and vapours ‘‘not yet into the moon's 
substance turned,” that is, undigested 
aliment. 
For know whatever wa created, neada 
To be omisioel ond fed. Of elements, 
The grower feads the purer,—carth the aea— 
Barth aod the on feed alr—the alr those fred 
Eihercal as ley the t 
Whence, in her view round, those spote,— gape 
Vapors Ses a6 BS eee 7 
Milton, Paradies Loot, v, 415, tr. ; oom leo 
wiih, 105, ete. (10S). 
Moon (Minions of the), thieves or high- 
waymen, (See Moon's Mex.) 


Moon and Mahomet. Mahomet 
made the moon perform seven circuits 
round Casha or the holy shrine of Mecca, 
then enter the right sleeve of his mantle 
and out at the left. At its —_ 
it split into two pieces, which re-uni 
in the centre of the firmament. This 
miracle was performed for the conversion 
of Hahab the Wise. 

Moon-Calf, an inanimate, shapeless 
human masa, said by isa’ By be en- 


gendered of woman only. Hist, Xs 
64, 
Moon Depository. Astolpho found 


the moon to be the great depository of 
misspent time, wasted wealth, broken 
vows, unanswered prayers, fruitless tea 
abortive attempts, unfulfilled desires 
intentions, ete. Lribes, he tells us, were 
hong on gold and silver hooks; princes’ 
favoura were kept in bellows; wasted 
talent was stored away im urns; but 
every article was duly labelled.—Anoato, 
Orlando Furiveo, xviii. (1516). 
Moon-Drop (in Latin virus lunare), 
®& vaporous drop supposed to r shed by 
: U 








MORAT. 
parts he had a fierce, Hon-like 


atverance, that ec the spectators a 
Morat, in Switzerland, famous for the 


battle fought there in 1476, in which 
the Swiss defeated Charles le Téméraire, 


in his and 
of trembling 


of Burgundy. 
” Merat and Marathon twin names shall stand. 
Byron, CAtide Harold, iil 64 (1616). 


Morbleu! This French oath is a 
corrupt ec atraction of Mau’graby ; thas, 
maugre mau'bleu. Maugraby was 
the Arabian enchanter, and the 
word means ‘‘ barbarous,” hence a bar- 
barous man or a barbarian. The oath is 
common in Provence, Languedoc, and 
Gascoigne. I have often heard it used 
by the : medical students at pout of 

robably it is a ing corruption 
Mort de Diew. pasnneg 

Mordaunt, the secretary at Aix of 
queen Maryaret the widow of Henry VI. 
of England.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Mordecai (Beau), a rich Italian 
Jew, one of the suitors of Charlotte 
Goodchild, but, supposing the report to 
be true that she has lost her fortune, he 
calls off and retires.—C. Macklin, Love 
@-la-smode (1769), 

The part that fire brought John Quick [1748-1831] Into 
notices was ‘’ Beau Mordecai,” in which be appeared as far 
back as 1770.—Heeurds of a Stage Vcteran, 

Mordent, father of Joanna by s 
formerwife. In ordertomarry lady Anne, 
he ‘‘ deserts" Joanna and leaves her to be 
brought up by strangers. Joanna is 

laced under Mrs. Enfield, a crimp, and 

ordent consents to a Proposal of 
Lennox to nn off with her. Mordent is 
@ spirit embittered with the world—a bad 
man, with a goading conscience. He sins 
and suffers the an:uish of remorse ; does 
wrong, and blames Providence because 
when he ‘‘sows the storm he reaps the 
whirlwind.” 

Lady Anne, the wife of Mordent, 
daughter of the carl of Oldcrest, sister 
ef a viscount, niece of lady Mary, and 
one of her uncles is a bishop. She is 
wholly neglected by her husband, but, like 
Grisilda (7.v.), bears it without complaint. 
—Holeroft, The Deserted Daughter (1784, 
altered into The Steward). 


Mordred (Sir), son of Margawse 
(sister of king Arthur) and Arthur her 
brother, while she was the wife of Lot 
king of Orkney (pt. i. 2, 85, 86). The 
sons of Lot himeelf and his wife were 
Gaw’ain, Agravain, Ga‘heris, and Gareth, 


MORDURE. 


all knights of the Round Table. Out of 
hatred to sir Launcelot, Mordred and 
Agravain accuse him to the king of too 
great familiarity with queen Guenever, 
and induce the king to spend a day in 
hunting. During his. absence, the queen 
sends for sir Launcelot to her private 
chamber, and Mordredand Agravain, with 
twelve other knights, putting the worst 
construction on the interview, clamorously 
assail the chamber, and call on sir Launce- 
lot to come out. This he does, and kills 
vain with the twelve knights, tut 
ordred makes his escape and tells the 
king, who orders the queen to be burnt 
alive. She is brought to the stake, but is 
rescued by sir Launcelot, who carries ber 
off to Joyous Guard, near Carlisle, which 
the ki ieges. While lying before the 
castle, king Arthur receives a bull from 
the pope, commanding him to take back 
his queen. This he does, but as he 
refuses to be reconciled two sir Launcelot, 
the knight betakes himself to Benwick, 
in Brittany. The king lays si to 
Benwick, and during his absence leaves 
Mordred regent. ordred usurp the 
crown, and tries, but in vain, te induce 
the queen to marry him. When the ki 
hears thereof, he raises the siege 
Benwick, and returns to land. He 
defeats Mordred at Dover, and at Baron- 
down, but at Salisbury (Camlan) Mor- 
dred is slain fighting with the king, and 
Arthur receives his death-wound. The 
queen then retires to a convent at Almes- 
bury, is visited by sir Launcelot, declines 
to marry him, and dies.—Sir T. Malory 
Canon? of I’rince Arthur, iii. 143-1 4 
1470). 

*,* The wife of Lot is called ‘‘ Anne” 
by Geoffrey of Monmouth (British His- 
tory, viii. 20, 21); and “ Bellicent” by 
Tennyson, in Gareth and Lynette. 

This tale is so very different to those 
of Geoffrey of Monmouth and Tennyson, 
that all three are given (sec MopRgED). 





Mor’dure (2 ayl.), son of the em- 

ror of Germany. He was guilty of 
illicit love with the mother of sir Der's 
of Southampton, who murdered her 
husband and then married sir Mordure. 
Sir Bevis, when a mere lad, reproved his 
mother for the murder of his father, 
and she employed Saber to kill him 
but the murder was not committed, 
young Bevis was brought up as a shep- 

erd. One day, entering the hall where 











MORGANY. 661 MORNA. 


converted to Christianity by Orlando. Morglay, the sword of sir Bevis of 
After performing the most wonderful Life] ante t.¢. Southam given to 
feats, he died at last from the bite of a | him by his wife Josian, ter of the 
erab.—Pulci, Morgante Maggiore (1488). king of Armenia.—Drayton, Polyolbion, 
He [don Quizete] spoke favourably of te,who, | ii. (1612). 
though of gigantic race. was most gentie in his manners. 
Dow Quizote, L. 1 1 (1605). 











Morgany, Glamorgan. 
aS geal OP Morgue la Faye, a fé who watchod 


over the birth of er the Dane, 
after he had finished his earthly sian 
restored him to perpetual youth, and took 
him to live with her in everlasting love in 
the isle and castle of Av’alon.—Ovyier ie 
Danois (a romance). 


Morice (Gi or Chtld), the natural 
son of lad “b t forth in 
her father's house wi’ mickle sin and 
shame.” One day, Gil Morice sent Willie 
to the baron’s with a request that 
lady Barnard would go at once to Green- 
_ wood to see the child. Lord Barnard, 
fancying the “child” to be some par- 
amour, forbade his wife to leave the hall, 
and went himself to Greenwood, where 
he slew Gil Morice, and sent his head to 
lady Barnard. On his return, the lady told 
her lord he had slain her son, and added, 
‘*Wi'’ that same spear, oh, pierce my 
heart, and put me out o' pain!” But the 
baron repented of his hasty deed, and 
cried, ‘‘1'll ay lament for Gil Morice, as 
gin he were mine ain."—Percy, Reliquea, 
etc., III. i. 

*,* This tale suggested to Home the 
plot of his tragedy called Douglas. 


Morisco, a Moorish dance, a kind of 
hornpipe. 
| aut Mauri ese videantur, aut e longius remot&é patrié 
credantur advolase.—Junius. 

Mor’land, in Lend Me Five Shillings, 
by J. M. Morton (1838). 


Morland (Henry), ‘‘the heir-at-law™ 
of baron Duberly. It was ly 
supposed that he had perished at sea; 
but he was cast on cape Breton, and 
afterwards returned to England, and mare 
ried Caroline Dormer an o —G 
Colman, The Heir-at-Law (1797). 
and suyaged toe na a walking guntiemmaa for hie Lonane 
theatre, where 1 made my Srst pes rpg aa“ 
Morland,” !n The Heir-at-Law, w to avoid 

ings, he called The Lord's Warming-pan. 


ao pease or Marcawse, wife of 
aing Lot. Their four sons were Gaw’ain, 
Agravain, Ga’heris, and Gareth (ch. 86) ; 
but Morgause had another son by prince 
Arthur, named Mordred. Her son Ga- 
heris, having caught his mother in adul- 
tery with sir Lamorake, cut off her head. 


King Lot had wedded king Arthur's sister, vat king 
Arthur had . . . by her Mordred, therefore king Lot 


aguiad king Arthar (ch. 35).—-Sir T. Malory, Mistery ef 
Arthur, 1 35, 36 (1470). 


Morgia’na, the female slave, first 
of Cassim, and then of Ali 
“crafty, cunning, and fruitful in in- 
ventions.” When the thief marked the 
door of her master's house with white 
chalk in order to recognize it, Morgiana 
marked several other doors in the same 
manner; next day, she observed a red 
mark on the door, and made a similar 
one on others, as before. A few nights 
afterwards, a merchant with thirty-eight 
oil-jars begyed a night's lodging ; and as 
Morgiana wanted oil for a lamp, she went 
to pet some from one of the leather jars. 
“Te it time?” asked a voice. ‘‘Not yet,” 
replied Morgiana, and going to the others, 
she discovered that a man was concealed 
in thirty-seven of the jars. From the 
last jar she took oil, which she made 
boiling hot, and with it killed the 
thirty-seven thieves. When the captain 
discovered that all his men were dead, 
he decamped without a moment's delay. 
Soon afterwards, he settled in the city as 
a merchant, and got invited by Ali Baba 
to supper, but refused to eat salt. This 
excited the suspicion of Morgiana, who 
detected in the pretended merchant the 
captain of the forty thieves. She danced 
awhile for his amusement, playfully 
sported with his dayyer, and sudden! 

unged it into his heart. When Ali 

ba knew who it was that she had slain, 
he net only yave the damsel her liberty, 
but also married her to his own son.— 
t iedtai Nights cs Ali Baba or the Forty Morley (Mrs ) the name under whieh 

jeves"’). oe . . 

wae. - ¥ queen Anne corresponded with Mrs. Free= 
the indy of your maner (CuedmL and we swat endeavour | man (the duchess of Marlborough). 


to pour microm." All Babe ur the Forty Thieves’ |  Morna, daughter of Cormac king of 





MORRIS. 

hill, when an eagle, taking his white head 
for a stone, let on it a shell-fish in order 
to break it, and all-to cracked his skull. 


pate ian was killed by a easie} 
on his y an e.]— 
Calend. aa 


Spenser. rdes Vii. 
is is an allegory of the high and 
low church parties. Morel is an anagram 


of Elmer or Aylmer bishop of London, 
who ‘sat on a hill,” and was the leader 
of the high-church y. Algrind is 
Grindal archbishop of Canterbury, head 
of the low-church party, who in 1578 
was sejuestrated for writing a letter to 
the queen on the subject of puritanism. 
Thomalin represents the puritans. This 
could not have been written before 157 
unless the reference to Algrind was add 
in some later edition.) 


Morris, a dontestic of the earl of 
Derby.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the Peak 
(time, Charles II.). 


Morris (Sfr.), the timid fellow-traveller 
of Frank Osbaldistone, who carried the 
portmanteau. Osbaldistone says, con- 
cerning him, ‘Of all the propensities 
which teach mankind to torment them- 
selves, that of causeless fear is the moet 
irritating, busy, painful, and pitiable.”"— 
Sir W. Scott, Aub Ruy (time, George I.). 


Morris (Peter), the pseudonym of John 
G. Lockhart, in J’eter's Letters tu His 
“insfolk (1819). 


Morris-Dance, a comic representa- 
tion of every grade of society. The 
characters were dreased partly in Spanish 
and partly in English costume. Thas, 
the huge sleeves were Spanish, but the 
laced stomacher English. Hobbvy-horse 
represented the king and all the knightly 
order; Maid Manan, the queen; the 
friar, the clergy generally ; the fool, the 
court jester. The other characters repre- 
sented a franklin or private gentleman, 
a charl or farmer, and the Iower grades 
were represented by a clown. The Span- 
ish costume is to show the ongin of the 
dance. 

A representation of a morris-dance 
may still be seen at Betley, in Stafford- 
shire, in a window placed in the house of 
George Tollet, Esq., in about 1620. 


Morrison (f/wjh), a Lowland drover, 
tne friend of Robin Uig.—Sir W. Scott, 
Zhe Teo Drvcers (time, George II1.). 


Mortality (Old), a religious itine- 
rant, who frequented country church- 
yards and the graves of the covenanters. 








668 MORTE D‘ARTHOUR. 


He was fines discovered in the barial- 
ground at eugh, clearing 
moss from the grey tom renewing 
with his chisel the half-defaced inscrip- 
tions, and _Tepairing the decorstions of 
the tombs.—Sir W. Scott, Old Mortality 
(time, Charles II.). 

*,* ‘Old Mortality” is said to he 
meant for Robert Patterson. 


Morta’ra, the boy who died from 
ing covered all over with gold-leaf ty 
Leo XII., to adorn a pageant. 


Mortcloke (Mr.), the undertaker at 
the funeral of Mrs. Margaret Bertram of 
Singleside.—Sir W. Scott, Guy 
(time, George I1.). 


Morte d’ Arthur, a compilation of 
Arthurian tales, called on the title-page 
The History of Prince Arthur, compiled 
from the French by sir Thomas > 
and printed by William Caxton in 1470. 
It is divided into three parts. The first 
part contains the birth of king Arthur, 
the establishment of the Round Table, 
the romance of Balin and Balan, and the 
beautiful allegory of Gareth and Linet’. 
The second part is mainly the romance 
of sir Tristram. The third part is the 
romance of sir Launcelot, the quest of 
the holy graal, and the death of Arthur, 
Guenever, Tristram, Lamorake, and 
Launcelot. 

*,* The difference of style in the third 
part is very striking. The end of ch. 4, 
pt i. is manifestly the close of a romance. 

t is a pity that each romance is not 
marked by some formal indication, 
thus, pt. i. bk. 1, etc.; and each book 
might be subdivided into chapters. 


This beok was finished the ninth year of the reign 
of king Edward IV. by sir Thomas Malory, knight. The 
endeth this poble and joyuus 


Sancgreall, and in the end the 
parting out of the world of 
graph. 


Morte d Arthur, by Tennyson. The 
poet supposes Arthur (wounded in the 
great battle of the West) to be borne off 
the field by sir Bedivere, The wounded 
monarch directed sir Bedivere to cast Exe 
calibur into the mere. Twice the knight 
disobeyed the command, intending to save 
the sword ; but the dying king detected 
the fraud, and insisted on being obeyed. 
So sir HKedivere cast the sword into the 
mere, and ‘tan arm, clothed in white 
aamite, caught it by the hilt, brandished 
it three times, and drew it into the mere.” 





MORVIDUS. 


665 


nS @re 


MOSES SLOW OF SPEECH. 





Morvi'dus, son of Danius by his 
eoncubin2 Tangusttla. In his reign, 
there ‘‘came from the Irish coasts a most 
cruel monster, which devoured the people 


continually, but as soon as Morvidus | 


heard thereof, he ventured to encounter it 
alone. When all his darts were spent, 
the monster rushed upon him, and 


swallowed him up like a small fish.”"— | 


Geoffrey of Monmouth, British History, 
iii. 15 (1142). 
. .. that valiant bastard... 
Morvides (Danius' son), who with that monster fought, 
His enbjects that devoured. 
Drayton, Polyolbiun, vill, (1613). 

(Morvidus is erroneously printed 

‘6 Morindus” in Drayton, but has been 


corrected in the quotation given above.) 
Mosby, an unmitigated villain. He 


seduced Alicia, the wife of Arden of 
Feversham. Thrice he tried to murder 


Arden, but was baflled, and then fright- | 


ened Alicia into conniving at a most 
villainous scheme of murder. Pretending 
friendship, Mosby hired two ruffians to 
murder Arden while he was playing a 
game of draughts. The villains, who 
were concealed in an adjacent room, were 


to rush on their victim when Mosby | 


said, ‘‘Now J take you.” The whole 
gang was apprehended and executed.— 
Arden of Ferershuin (1592), altered by 
George Lillo (1739). 


Mosca, the knavish confederate of 
Vol’pone (2 sy/.) the rich Venetian 
“© fox.”"—Ben Jonson, Volpone or The 
Fox (1605). 

If your mother, in hopes to ruln me, should consent to 
marry my pretended uncle, he might, like ‘* Musca” In 
The fox, stand upon terms —W. Congreve, Tae Way af 
the World, i 1 (17u0). 

Mosce’ra, a most stately convent 
built by the abbot Rodulfo, on the ruins 
of a dilapidated fabric. On the day of 
opening, an immense crowd assembled, 
and the abbot felt proud of his noble 
editice. Amongst others came St. Gual- 
ber’'to (3 sy/.), who, when the abbot 
showed him the pile and the beauty 
thereof, said in praver, ‘If this convent 
is built for God's glory, may it abide to 
the end of time; but if it is a monument 
of man’s pride, may that little brook 
which flows hard by overwhelm it with 
its waters.” At the word, the brook 
ceased to fluw, the waters piled up 
mountain high, then dashing on the 
convent overthrew it, nor left one stone 
upon another, so complete was the ruin. 
—Southey, St. Gualberto, 


Moscow. So-and-so was my Moscow, 





| Sheridan's 


that is, the tuming-point of my good 

fortune, leading to future ‘‘ shoals and 

misery.” The reference is to Napoleon 

Bonaparte’s disastrous Russian expe- 

dition, when his star hastened to its 
set.” 


sa tre ea aceasta ruin af my reputation and 


Jame 

Byron, Den Juan, xi. 56 (1884). 
Mo’ses, the Jew money-lender in 
comedy for 
Scandal (1777). 


Moses’ Clothes. The Kordn says: 
‘God cleared Moses from the scandal 
which was rumoured inst him” (ch. 
Xxxiil.). The scan was that his 
body was not properly formed, and 
therefore he would never bathe in the 

resence of others. One day, he went te 

the, and laid his clothes on a stone, but 
the stone ran away with them into the 
camp. Moses went after it as fast as he 
could run, but the Israelites saw his 
naked body, and perceived the untruth- 
fulness of the common scandal.—Sais, 
Al Aordn, xxxiii. notes. 


Moses’ Horns. The Vulgate gives 
quod curnuta esset facies sua, for what 
our version has translated “‘he wist not 
that the skin of his face shone.” The 
Hebrew word used means both a ‘‘horm” 
and an “‘irradiation.” Michael Angelo 
followed the Vulgate. 


Moses’ Rod. 


While Moses was Hlving with Re'udl (Jithro} the 
Midianite, he noticed a In the garden, and he took 
it to be his walking-stick. This staff was Ju-eph's, and 
Re'vel carried it away when he fied frum Fgypt. This 
same staff Adan) carmed with him out of Eden. Noah 
{uherited it, and gave tt to Shem. It passed Into the 
bands of Abraham, and Abrahan: left ft to Isaac; and 
when Jacob fied from his brother’s anger tnto Mesopo- 
tama, be carried it in bis hand, and gave it at death 
to his son Joseph.—The Talmud, vi. 


Moses Slow of Speech. Th. 
tradition is this: One day, Pharaoh was 
carrying Moses in his arms, when the 
child plucked the royal beard so ade med 

m 


| that the king, in a passion, ordered 


to be put to death. Queen Asia said to 
her husband, the child was only a babe, 
and was so young he could not dis- 
cern between a ruby and a live coal, 
Pharaoh put it to the test, and the 
child clapped into his mouth the burn- 
ing coal, thinking it something good 
to eat. Pharaoh’s anger was appeased, 
but the child burnt its tongue so severely 
that ever after it was ‘‘ slow of speech. 

—Shalshel, //akkabala, 11. 


Moses Slow of Speech. The account 
given in the Jalmed is somewhat different. 








MOTHER HUBBERD. 


MOUNTAIN, 





running about all day to supply Master 


The dame made 
a . ore, pet mage rt new * Bow, 
ww 
4d Nursery Tole io Diya. 


Mother Hub the supposed 
narrator of a tale called The For and 


the Ape, related to the poet Spenser to 
beguile 
Several persons told him tales, but 


Mother Hubberd’s Tale. A fox 
and an ape determined to travel about the 
world as chevaliers de l'industrie, First, 
Ape dressed as a broken-douwn soldier, and 
Fox aa his servant, A farmer agreed to 
take them for his shepherds; but the 
devoured all his lambs and then decam 
They next ‘went in for holy orders.” 
Reynard contrived to vet a living ; 
him, and appointed the ape as his c shee 5 
but they soon made the parish too hot to 
hold them, and aynin sheered off. They 
next tried their fortune at court; the 
ape set himself up aa a foreigner of dis- 
tinction, with Fox for his groom, They 
played the part of mkes, bat being found 

: desperate royues, had to tlee with 
all despatch, and seek another field of 


action. Ae they journeyed on, they saw | 


a lion sleeping, and Master Fox persuaded 
his companion to steal the crown, sceptre, 
and royal robes. The ape, arrayed in 
these, Assumed to be king, and Fox was 
his prime minister; 
govern that J upiter interfered, the lion 
was restored, andl the ape was ‘docked of 
his tail and had his ears cropt. 

Bin whirh, afl ages but half thelr sors have left, 

And of their tills are utterly bereft, 

By Mother Hubbard her discourse did end. 

Bpiacr, Mother Nubierda Tala, 

Mother Shipton, T. Evan Preece, 
of South Wales, a propheteds, whose pre- 
dictions (venerally in rhymes) were at 
one time in everybody's mouth in South 
Wales, especially in Glamorganahire. 


*,* She predicted the death of Wolsey, — 
Her prophecies | 


lord Perey, and others. 
are stil) extant, and contain the announce 
ment that “the en of the world shall 
eoinein eighteen hundred and eighty-one.” 


Mother of the People bay om Mar- 


guerite of France, fa Mere des J’cuples, 
daughter of Franyois 1. (1523-1574), 


the weary hours of sickness, | 


but so ill did they | 


Mother's s Three Joys ae (The 
three Tecra hoes allowed to the fona 
ther's heart,” by the ecstasy ot 
the birth of her pesnile: ave 


L When fat he white lemons of i eth 
the crimeon bul that did encom them ; st La 


wa est. er uaghlng and. Gelsbeod te hie 
rep gt op Et ag 
a. And eweeter wil) the third, whenever 
— ahndl utler tha mond of 
* father, eo cls, that fe the of allt 
Mould (‘r.), undertaker, Hia face 


had a queer attempt at melancholy, sadly 
satisfaction 


et varinnce witha smirk of 


which might be read between the lines, 
Though bis calling was not a lively one, 
it did not depreas his spirits, as in the 
bosom of his family he was the most 
cheery of men, and to him the “‘tap, se al 
of coffin-making was as sweet and exhi 
rating as the tapping of a woodpecker,— 
C. Dickens, Martin Churriewit (1844). 


Moul ““g good-limbed 
ee y = hy eae and of good friends." 
Ralph was pricked for a recruit in sir 
John Falstai!s regiment. He promised 
Bardolph forty shillings “to stand hia 
frieod." Sir John, being | told this, sent 
Mouldy home, and when justice Shallow 
remonstrated, saying that Ralph ap ee 
the likeliest man ‘of the pera alstaff 
replied, “* Will you tell me, States Shal-. 
low, how to choose a man? Care I for the 
limb, the thews, the stature, bulk, and big 
assemblance of a man? Give me the 
oe Master Shallow. "—Shakespeare, 2 
cary JV. wet iii, oe, 2 (1598), 


Moullahs, Mohammedan lawyers, 
from which are selected the judges. 


Mountain (The), a name given in 
the French Revolution tu a faction which 
gat on the benches moat elevated in the 
Hall of rebate The Girondims sat 
in the centre or lowest part of the hall, 
and were nicknamed the “plain.” The 
‘‘mountain” for a long time was the 
dominant part; it utterly overthrew the 
“plain” on Aggust 31, 1793, but was in 
turn overthrown at the fall of Robespierre 


| ( Thermidor il. or July 27, 1794). 


Mountain (The Old “wat of the), 
the imaum Hassan ben Sabbah omairi. 
The sheik Al Jebal was so called. He 
waa the prince of the Assassins. 

*,* In Rymer's Fadera (vol. ED Dr 
Clarke, the oditor, has added two tere 
of this sheik; but the doctor must be 
responsible for their genuineness, 





MOZAIDE. } 
- ‘Mozaide (2 syl.), the Moor who be- 
friended Vasco de Gama when he first 





Janded on the Indian continent. 
The Moor atiends, Mranide, whose malous core 
To Game's eyes revealed each treechervus ears. 
Camoena, Luciod, lx. (LD). 
Mogart (The English), sir Henry 
Bishop (1780-1855). 
Mozart (The Italian), Cherubini of 
Florence (1760-18-42). 
Much, the millers son, the bailiff or 
“arater™ of Rebin Hood. (See Mince.) 


ain I pol atin, 

Ad Mork the oiller's sone, 

Ritson, Sobin Mood Ballads, 1 1 (104). 
Much, the miller's son, iu the morris- 
dance. Ilis feat was to bang, with an 
inflated bladder, the heads of faping 
spectators. He represented the fool or 

r. 


Much Ado about Nothing, 
eomedy by Shakespeare (1600), ero, 
the daughter of Ieonato, is engaged to be 
married to Clandio of Aragon; but don 
John, out of hatred to his brother Leonato, 
determines to mar the happiness of the 
lovers. Accordingly, be bribes the wait- 
ing-maid of Hero to dress in her mistress's 
clothes, and to talk with him by moon- 
light from the chamber balcony, The 
villain tells Claudio that Hero bas made 


an assignation with him, and invites him | 
raunded | 


to witness it. Claudio is fully 
that the woman he sees is Hero, and 
when next day she presents herself at 
the altar, he rejects her with scorn. The 
priest fecls assured there is some mistake, 
bo he takes JJero apart, and gives out that 
she is dead. Then don John takes to 
flight, the waiting-woman confesses, 
Claudio repents, and by way of amend- 
ment (as Ilero is dead) promises to 
marry ber cousin, but this cousin turns 
out to be [ero herself, 

*,* A eimilar tale is told by Ariosto in 
his Orlands Furivso, v. (L516). 

Another occurs in the fuéry Queen, by 
Bpenser, bk. ii. 4, 38, ete. (1590). 

George Turbervil's (fencura (1576) is still 
more like Shakespeare's tale. Delleforest 
and Bandello huve also similar tales (see 
Lfist., xviii.). 

Mucklebacket (Siumders), the old 

erman at Museselerag. 

Old Klapeth Muckicbacket, mother of 
Saunders, and formerly servant to lady 
Glenallan. 





| miserly old uncle and 





Maggie Mucklebachet, wife of Saunders. 
Steenie Muchlebacket, eldest son of 
Saunders. He is drowned. 

Little Jennie Mucklebachet, Saunders's. 
child.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Antiquary 
(time, George IJI.). 


Mucklethrift (Sailie), ironmonger 
and brazierof Kippletringan, in Scotland. 
—Sir W. Scott, Guy Mfannering (time, 
George IT.). 


Mucklewrath (Hobukkuk), a fanatic 
preacher,—Sir W, sects, Old Mortality 
time, Charles II.). 


Mucklewrath (John), amith at Cairn- 
vreckan villag 

Dame Muchlewrath, wife of John, A 
terrible virago.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George IT.). 


Muckworm (Sir Penuriow), the 
ian of Ar- 
bella, He wants her marry squire 
Sapskull, a raw Yorkshire tike; but she 
loves Gaylove, a young barrister, and, of 
course, Muckworm is outwitted.—Carey, 


| The Honest Yorkshireman (1736). 


Mudarra, son of Goncalo Bustos de 
Salas de Lara, who murdered his uncle 
Rodri'go while hunting, to avenge the 
death of his seven half-brothers, ‘he 
tale is, that Rodrigo Velasquez invited 
his seven nephews to a feast, when a fray 
took place im which a Moor was slain; 
the aunt, who wos a Moorish lady, de- 
manded vengeance, whereupon the seven 
boys were allured into a mvine and 
cruelly murdered. Mudarra was the son 
of the same father as “the seven sons 
of Lara,” but not of the same mother, 
—Homance of the Eleventh Century. 


Muddle, the carpenter onder captain 
Savage and lieutenant O'Brien,—Captain 
Marryat, Peter Simple (1833). 

Muddlewick  (Triptolemus), 
Charles AJJ., an historical drama by 
J. K. Planché (1826). 


Mudjekee’wis, the father of Hia- 
watha, and subsequently potentate of the 
winds, He gave all the winds but one 
to hia children to rule; the one he re- 
served was the west wind, which be him- 
self ruled over. The dominion of the 
winds was given to Madjekeewis because 
he slew the great bear called the Mishé. 
Mokwa, 

Thus was slain the Mishé-Molewa 


“ Honaur be to Madjebaewis ah 
Henesforth be shall be the weat wind, 








MULTON. 


SOubmetine this land in such estate maintained 
Aa his great beisire Brute. 
vill, (1619). 


Drayton, Polyeldion, 
Multon (Sir Thomas de), of Gilsland. 
He is lord de Vaux, a crusader, and 
master of the horse to king Richard 
1.—Sir W. Scott, The Talisman (time, 








Richard J.). 

Mumblasen (Master Michael), the 
od herald, a dependent of sir Haugh 
Robeart.—Sir W. Scott, Aenilworth (time, 
Elizabeth). 


Mumbo Jumbo, an African bogie, 
hideous and malignant, the terror of 
women and children. 

Mum (7%), keeper of the 
se Mumps! He ale-hous’,” on the road to 
Charlie's Hope farm.—Sir W. Scott, Guy 
Maanering (time, George II.). 

Munchau’sen (Zhe baron), a hero 
of most marvellous adventures.— Rudolf 
Erich Raspe (a German, but storekeeper 
of the Dolcoath mines, in Cornwall, 1792). 

*,* The name is said to refer to 
Hieronymus Karl Friedrich von Minch- 
hausen, a German officer in the Russian 
army, noted for his marvellous stories 
(1720-1797). It is also sup to be an 
implied satire on the travellers’ tales of 
baron de Tott in his Mémoires sur les 
Turcs et Tartares (1784), and those of 
James Bruce ‘The African Traveller” 
in his Zraveis to Discover the Sources of 
the Nile (1790). 

Munchausen (The baron). The French 
baron Munchausen is represented by M. 
de Crac, the hero of a French operetta, 


Mu’nera, daughter of Pollenté the 
Saracen, to whom he gave all the spoils 
he could lay his hands on. Munera was 
beautiful and rich exceedingly ; but Talus, 
having chopped off her golden hands and 
silver feet, tossed her into the moat.— 
Spenser, Faéry Queen, v. 2 (1596). 

Mungo, a black slave of don Diego. 

Dear heart, what a terrible life am I led! 
A dog has a better dat's sheltered and fed ... 
Mungo ererrwhers, 
Mo wish to de Loni me was dead. 
ul. Bickerstaff, The Padlock (1768), 

Murat (7he Russian), Michael Milo- 
radowitch (1770-1820). 

Murdstone (uward), the second 
husband of Mrs. Copperfield. His cha- 
racter was ‘‘firmness,” that is, an un- 
bendi self-will, which rendered the 
young life of David intolerably wretched. 

Jane Murdstone, sister of Edward, as 
hard and heartless as her brother. Jane 


671 


MUS8SCAROL. 
Murdstone became the companion of Dora 
Spenlow, and told Mr. of David's 


love for Dora, hoping to annoy David. 
At the death of Mr. 8 , Jane re- 
turned to live with her brother.—Dickens, 
David Copperfield (1 


Murray or Moray (Zhe bonnis ear! 
of), James Stuart, the ‘* Good Regent,” 
Margaret cough en of John | nd Erskine 
ter 0 i 
He joined the reform y in 1 and 
went to France in 1561 to invite 
queen of Scots to come and reside is 
her kingdom. He was an accomplice in 
the marder of Rizzio, and during the 
queen’s imprisonment was appointed 
regent. According to an ancient ballad, 
this bonny earl ‘‘ was the queen's love, 
s.e. queen Anne of Denmark, daughter of 
Frederick IT., and wife of James I. of Eng- 
land. It is said that James, being jealous 
of the handsome earl, in e earl 
of Huntly to murder him (1531-1570). 
Introduced by sir W. Scott in The 
Monastery and The Abbot (time, Eliza- 


MM (John), of Broughton, secre- 
to Charles ‘dward, the Young Pre- 
tender. He turned king’s evidence, and 
revealed to Government all the circeum- 
stances which gave rise to the rebellion, 
and the persons most active in its organi- 


zation. 
If crimes Nhe these hereafter are forgiven, 
Judas and Murray both may go to beaven. 
Jacobite Relics, ti. We, 


Museous, the poet (n.c. 1410), author 
of the elegant tale of Feeder and Hero. 
Virgil places him in the Elysian fields, 
attended by a vast multitude of ghosts, 
Museus being taller by a head than any 
of them (Z£neid, vi. 677). 
Swarm. . . as the infernal spirits 
On sweet Musseus when he came to bell. 
C. Marlowe, Dr. Punstus (1580), 
Muscadins of Paris, Paris exqui- 
sites, who aped the London cockneys in the 
first French Revolution. Their dress wag 
top-boots with thick soles, knee-b 
a dress-coat with long tails and high sti 
collar, and a thick cud called a con 
stitution, It was thought John Bull-like 
to assume 8 huskiness of voice, a dis- 
courtesy of manners, and a swaggering 
vulgarity of speech and behaviour. 
Cockaeys of London ! Muscadins of Paris! 
Byten, Don Juan, vill, 134 (18R4), 
Mus’carol, king of flies, and father 
of Clarion the most beautiful of the race. 
—Spenser, Musopotmos or The Butterfy's 
Fate (1590). 








MUSIDORUS. 


678 MY LITTLE ALL. 





bathing, and his delicacy on the occasion 
wo enchanted her that she at once ac- 
cepted his proffered love.—Thomeson, 
Seasons (“ Summer,” 1727). 


Musido’rus, a hero whose exploits 
are told by sir Philip Sidney, in his 
Arcadia (1581). 

Musketeer, a soldier armed with a 
musket, but specially applied to a com- 
pany of gentlemen who were a mounted 


gnard in the service of the king of 
rance from 1661. 


They formed two companies, the grey 
and the black; so called from the colour 
of their hair. Both were clad in scarlet, 
and hence their quarters were called the 
Haison rowje. In peace they followed 
the king in the chase to protect him; in 
war they fought either on foot or horse- 
back. They were suppressed in 1791; 
restored in 1814, but only for a few 
months; and after the restoration of 
Louis XVIII., we hear no more of them. 
Many Scotch gentlemen enrolled them- 
selves among these dandy soldiers, who 
went to war with curled hair, white 
gloves, and perfumed like milliners. 

*,* A. Dumas has a novel called The 
Thrve Musketeers (1844), the first of a 
series ; the second 1s Zicenty Feurs After- 
wards; and the third, Viconte de Braye- 
lonne. 

Muslin, the talkative, impertinent, 
intriguing suirante of Mrs. Lovemore. 
Mistress Muslin is sweet upon William 
the footman; and loves cards.—A. Mur- 
phy, Zhe Way tu Acep Him (1760). 


Mussel, a fountain near the waterless 
sea, which purges from transgression. 
So called because it is contained in a 
hollow stone like a mussel-shell. It is 
mentioned by Prester John, in his letter 
to Manuel Comnénus emperor of Con- 
stantinople. Those who test it enter the 
water, and, if they are true men, it rises 
till it coverz their heads three times. 


Mus'tafa, a poor tailor of China, 
father of Aladdin, killed by illness 
brought on by the idle vayabondism of 
his son.—Arubian Nishts (‘* Aladdin and 
the Wonderful Lamp"). 


Mutton, a courtezan, sometimes 
called a ‘‘Jaced mutton.” ‘! Mutton 
Lane,” in Clerkenwell, was so called 
because it was a suburra or quarter for 
harlots. The courtezan was called a 
‘‘ Mutton” even in the reign of Henry 
I[I., for Bracton speaks of them as oves. 
—De Legibus, etc., ti. (1569). 


29 


Mutton (Who Stole the)? This was a 
common street jeer flang on policemen 
when the force was first organized, and rose 
thus: The first cuse the force had to deal 
with was the thief of a leg of mutton; 
but they wholly failed to detect the thief, 
and the laugh turned against them. 


Mutton - Eating i ( The) 
Charles II. of England (1630, 1659- 
1685). 

HGThoee word oo man reife ons 
He never said a foolish thing, 
And never did a wise on’. 
Bari of Rochester. 

Mutual Friend (Our , & novel by 
Charles Dickens (1864). e ‘mutual 
friend” is Mr. Boffin ‘‘ the golden dust- 
man,” who was the mutual friend of 
John Harmon and of Bella Wilfer. The 
tale is this: John Harmon was supposed 
to have been murdered by Julius Hand- 
ford; but it was Ratford, who was 
murdered by Rogue Riderhood, and the 
mistake arose from a resemblance be- 
tween the two persons. By his father’s 
will, John Harmon was to marry Bella 
Wilfer; but John Harmon knew not the 
person destined by his father for his 
wife, and made up his mind to dislike 
her. After his supposed murder, he 
assumed the name of John Rokesmith, 
and became the secretary of Mr. Boffin 
“‘the golden dustman,” residuary legatee 
of old John Harmon, by which he became 

ssessor of £100,000. Boffin knew 

okesmith, but concealed his knowledge 
foratime. At Boffin’s house, John Har- 
mon (as Rokesmith) met Bella Wilfer, 
and fell in love with her. Mr. Boffin, in 
order to test Bella's love, pretended to 
be angrv with Rokesmith for presuming 
to love Bella; and as Bella married him, 
he cast them both off ‘‘ fora time,” to 
live on John's earnings. A babe was 
born, and then the husband took the 
young mother to a beautiful house, and 
told her he was John Harmon, that the 
house was their house, that he was 
the possessor of £100,000 through the 
disinterested conduct of their ‘‘ mutual 
friend” Mr. Boffin; and the young couple 
live happily with Mr. and dirs. Koffin, in 
wealth and luxury. 

My-Book (Dr.). Dr. John Aber- 


ne’thy (1765-183U) was so called, because 
he used to say to his patients, “Read my 


book ” (On Suryical sons). 
My Little AIL 
I was twice burnt out, and lost my )%tle all both times, 
—Sheridan, The Critte, 1. 1 (1779). 9 
x 








NAG’S HEAD CONSECRATION. 675 


NAMES OF TERROR. 





to be seen waiting for some one who never 
appeared ; and he would glide along ap- 
ntly taking no notice of any one.— 

- Dicxens, Martin Chuzzlewit (1844). 


Nag’s Head Consecration, s 
scandal perpetuated by Pennant on the 
dogma of ‘‘apostolic succession.” The 
‘“‘high-church clergy ” assert that the 
ceremony called holy orders has been 
transmitted without interruption from 
the apostles. Thus, the apostles laid 
hands on certain persons, who (say they) 
became ministers of the gospel; these 
persons ‘‘ ordained” others in the same 
manner; and the succession has never 
been broken. Pennant says, at the Re- 
formation the bishops came to a fix. 
There was only one bishop, viz., Anthony 
Kitchen of Llandaff, and Bonner would 
not allow him to perform the ceremony. 
In this predicament, the fourteen candi- 
dates for episcopal ordination rummaged 
up Story, a deposed bishop, and got him 
to ‘lay hands ” on Parker, as archbishop 
of Canterbury. As it would have been 
profanation for Story to do this in a 
cathedral or church, the ceremony was 

rformed in a tavern called the Nap's 

ead, corner of Friday Street, Cheapside. 
Strype refutes this scandalous tale in his 
Life of Archbishop Parker, and so does 
Dr. Hook ; but it will never be stamped 
out. 


Naggleton (Mr. and IMrs.), tvpes of 
a nagging husband and wife. They are 
for ever janyling at trifles and wilful 
misunderstandings.— Punch (1864-5). 


Naked Bear (Tic). Hush! the naked 
hear trill hear you! a threat and reproof to 
unruly children in North America. The 
naked bear, says the legend, was laryer 
and more ferocious than any of the species. 
It was quite naked, save and except one 
spot on its back, where was a tuft of 
white hair.—Heckewelder, Zransactions 
of the American Phil, Soc., iv. 260. 

Thus the wrinkled o'd Nokomis 

Nureed the litte Hiawatha, 

Rocked hints in his linden cradle, 

Stled his fretful wail by swaying, 

** Hush! the naked bear will get thee !* 
Longfellow, d/sawatha, til. (1858), 

*.* Even to the present hour the threat, 
“Tl see vour naked nose!" is used 
occasionally in England to quiet fretful 
and unruly children. I have myself 
heard it scores of times. 


Nakir’, Nekir, or Nakeer. (See 


MoNnKER AND NAKIR.) 
Nala, a legendary king of India, 


noted for his love of Damayanti, and hie 

subsequent misfortunes. This legendary 

king has been the subject of numerous 
ms. 

*,* Dean Milman has translated into 
English the episode from the Mahdbhdrata, 
and W. Yates has translated the Nalodaya 
of the great Sanskrit poem. 


Nama, a daughter of man, beloved 
by the angel Zaraph. Her wish was to 
love intensely and to love holily, but as 
she fixed her love on a seraph, and not 
on God, she was doomed to abide on 
earth, ‘‘unchanged in heart and frame,” 
so long as the earth endureth ; but at the 
great consummation both Nama and her 
seraph will be received into those courts 
of love, where ‘‘ love never dieth.”— 
Moore, Loves of the Angels, ii. (1822). 


Namancos, Numantia, a town of 
Old Castile, in Spain. Milton says the 
‘‘ onarded mount looks towards Naman- 
cos,” that is, the fortified mount called 
St. Michael, at the Land’s End, faces Old 
Castile.—Milton, Lycidas, 161 (1638). 


Namby (Major), a retired officer, 
living in the suburbs of London. He 
had been twice married; his first wife 
had four children, and his second wife 
three. Major Namby, though he lived 
in a row, always transacted his domestic 
affairs by bawling out his orders from 
the front garden, to the annoyance of his 
neighbours. He used to stalk half-wa 
down the garden path, with his head hig 
in the air, his chest stuck out, and flour- 
ishing his military cane. Suddenly he 
would stop, stamp with one foot, knock 
up the hinder brim of his hat, begin to 
scratch the nape of his neck, wait a 
moment, then wheel round, look af the 
first-floor window, and roar out, ‘* Ma- 
tilda!” (the name of his wife) ‘‘ don’t do 
so-and-so ;" or ** Matilda! do so-and-so.” 
Then would he bellow to the servants to 
buy this, or not to let the children eat 
that, and so on.—Wilkie Collins, Pray 
Employ Major Namby (a sketch}. 


Name. To tell one’s name to an enemy 
about to challenge you to combat was 
deemed by the ancient Scotch heroes 9 
mark of cowardice ; because, if the pre- 
decessors of the combatants had shown 
hospitality, no combat could ensue. Hence 
‘to tell one’s name to an enemy” was an 
ignominioussynonym of craven or coward. 

‘LT have been renowned tn battle,” mid Clea’ammor, 
** but | nevez told my name to a foe."—Ossian, Certhen, 


Names of Terror. The following, 








NANNIE. 


maiden, who preferred Strephon to the 
gay lordlings who sought her hand in 
marriage.—Shenstone, A fiallad (1554). 








Wannie, Miss Fleming, daughter of 
8 farmer in the parish of Tarbolton, in 
Ayrshire. Immortalized by HK. Burns. 


Nan'tolet, father of Rosalura and | 


Lillia-Bianca.—Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Wild-yoose Chase (1652), 


Wapoleon L., called by the Germans 
“kaiser Alia” (9.0.). 

“M" ta curiously coupled with the 
history of Napoleon J. and III, (See 
M., p. 5A3,) 

The following ia a curious play on the 
worl Napoleon :— 

Napoletin apolein polein olefin  letin etn 

ar Apaligen citled déatruplig o-lion podig-beat 
being. That ta: 

ae (being) oo Don golng about destroy 


CAaurausm, Napoleon idolatry. Chanu- 
vin is a blind idolator of Napoleon 1,, in 
Scribe's drama entitled Suldal Lubuwrewr. 


The picture of Napoleon galloping up | 
the Alps on a rampant war-charger, is by | 
The war-horse is a poetical | 


David. 
representation of a patient mule trudging 
wearily up the steep agrent. The cocked 
hat and cut-away coat, which the emperor 
wore on gala days, are poetical repre- 
sentationa of the fur cap pulled over his 
ears, and the thick great cont, ‘' close- 
buttoned to the chin,” during his passage 
over the mountains. 


Napoleon IIL /fis Nicknames. 

ASEX EN DERG Karen a) 68o be colled hineelf afier 
hls eenys Prony the fortress of Ham, 

Bahisater, the naawe of lhe oan he abot in ble 
Bouleene capade. 


KawTRAFA, © compound of Rowjoene] Strasbourg] | 


ail Pafris|, the places of lils noted eocnjewlen, 


Cmepec. Bo called from the rather wits) des of 


hilly nose, 

May of Devrewmane 80 called bernie [erember wu 
his month of ghey. Thos, be was elected preeident 
December 11, lid; made bls rowp do dtut Peoember 3, 
Ii; and was create! emperor December 2, 140, 

Mas of Benois. 8o elle) bernie af Sedan he me- 
i his sword to the dig of Irusda (Sepuenitser, 

o}. 

EaTIPOLe, sume ad the Weet of England RANTIPOLE, 
6 harun-srum, bell klk, ball madenp, | myself in 
1AM sow a in forbkhden to rend «a single might io 
Paris, became be addres! his dog as * Ratipols.” We 
were dining of Lhe same talile. 

Twe Littke. Vietor Vago gave bili thls tthe; but 
Che katred of Hoge to Napwleon waa a mononun le, 

VRERNUEL, the meme of his mijposed father, 


Number 2, The second of the month 
was Louis Napoleon's day, 
one of the days of his uncle, the other 
being the fifteenth, 

The coup d'¢lut was December 2; he 
was made emperor December 2, 1852; 


677 


it 





It was also | 





NAPOLEON AND TALLEYRAND. 
the Franco-!"russian war opened! at Saar 
briick, August 2, 1870; he surrendered 
hia sword to William of Prussia, Septem- 
ber 2, IRyt), 

Napoleon I, waa crowned December 2, 
1404; and the victury of Austerlitz was 
December 2, 1805. 

Numerical Curiosities, 1, 1809, the 
Inst vear of Napoleon's glory; the next 
year was that of his downfall. As o 
matter of curiosity, it may be observed that 
if the day of his birth, or the aay of the 
enipress'’s birth, or the date of the caji- 
tulation of Paris, be added to that of the 
coronation of Napoleon IIf., the result 
always points to 1869. Thus, he was 
crowned 1452; he was born 1808; the 
empress Eugenie was born 1826; the 
capitulation of Paris was 1871, Whence: 
laa LS «coronation, 


1 1 
6! birth of Ht hirth of 6 | caytutation 
0 { Napoleon. + hepato Tj of Parla 
6, 6 i) 
Lain aay Li 
ci 


2. 1870, the year of his downfall. By 
adding the numerical values of the birth- 
date either of Napoleon or Eugénie to the 
date of the marriage, we get their fotal 
year of L870. ‘Thus, Napoleon was born 
1808; Eugenie, 1826; married, 1453, 


a _,, jear of muarrings. 
a | birth of | birds of 
i | Nopouleon, 2 | Eugenie, 
a) ‘J 
ne 1870 
3, Empereur, The votes for the presi- 


dent to be emperor were 7,119,791; those 
aainst him were 1,119,000. If, now, 
the numbers TLWTOF ITO be written on a 
piece of paper, and held up to the light, 
the reverse side will show the word 
enpereur, (The dash is the dividing 
mark, and forms the lung stroke of the 
oe p ") 

Napoleon and Talleyrand. Nn- 
poleon I, one day entered a roadside inn, 
and called for breakfast. There was 
nithing in the house but eggs and cider 


(which Napoleon detested), ‘ What 
shall we do?" said the emperor to 
Tullevrand. Io answer to this, the 


gramé chambellan unprovised the rhymes 
fullowing :— 
Le bon rol Dmgobert 
Aliimlt fe ber vlo ao deer. 
Le grail 5i. Eloi 
Lui dit, “0 oon rod, 
Le droit rows 
L's bien reochdrl™ 
“Eh blen 1" hol di loro, . 


But he could get no further, Whereupos 





NATTY BUMPPO. 


parliament of 1792. It consisted of 721 
members, but was reduced first to 500 
then to 500. It succeeded the National 
Assembly. 


Natty Bumppo, called ‘‘ Leather- 
stockings.” He ap in five of F. 
Cooper's novels: (1) The Deersiayer ; 
(2) The Pathfinder; (8) ‘‘The Hawk- 
eye,” in The Last of the Mohicans ; (4) 
** Natty Bumppo,” in The Pioneers; and 
(5). ‘©The Trapper,” in The Prairie, in 
which he dies. 

Nature Abhors a Vacuum. 
This was an axiom of the peri ic 
philosophy, and was repeated by Galileo, 
as an exp ion of the rise of water 
for about thirty-two fect in wells, etc. 


Nausic’aa (4 syi.), daughter of 
Alcinous king of the Phaoa’cians, who 
conducted Ulysses to the court of her 
father when he wae shipwrecked on the 
coast. 


Nausicaa, as she had gone down through the orchards 
and the olive gardens to the sea, i 


that 
driadné, L 10, 


Navigation (The Father of), don 


Henrique duke of Viseo, the greatest 
mao that Portugal has produced (13894— 
1460). 


Navigation (The Father of British In- 
land), Francis Egerton, duke of Bridge- 
water (1736-1803). 

Naviget Anticyram (Horace, Sat., 
ii. 3, 166), Anticyra, in Thessaly, famous 
for hellebore, a remedy for madness ; 
hence, when a person acted foolishly, he 
was told to go to Anticyra, as we should 
say, ‘‘to get his simples cut.” 


Naxian Groves. Naxos (now 
Nucia), an island of the Agtan Sea or 
the Archipelago, was noted for ita wines. 

Whd from Naxian groves. 

. drinking Seng. 

Neeora, a fancy name used by Horace, 
Virgil, and Tibullus, as a synonym of 
sweetheart. 

To sport with Amaryilis in the shade, 
Or with the tangles of Nesera’s hair. 
Milton, Lyeidas (1638). 

Neal'liny (4 sy/.), a suttee, the young 
widow of Ar’valan son of Keha’ma.— 
Southey, Curse of Achuma, i. 11 (1809). 

Nebuchadnezzar [Ne-boch-ad-ne- 
Tear), in Russian, means ‘there is no 


God but the czar."—M. D., Noles and 
Queries (2ist July, 1877). 





679 


ewes 


NEGUS. 


‘ Necessity. Longfellow, in The Way- 
side Inn (1863) , says the student : 


Quoted Horace, whore be sings 
dire Necessity of things, 


Neck. Calig’ala the Roman emperor 
used to say, ‘‘Oh that the Roman people 
had but one neck, that I might cut it off 
at a blow!” 


The 
Que neci', which he with one fell stroke might - 


Weck or Nothing, a farce by Gar- 
rick (1766). Mr. Stockwell promises to 
give his daughter in marriage to the son 
of sir Ha Harlowe of Dorsetshire, 
with a dot of £10,000 ; but it so happens 
that the young man is privately married. 
The two servants of Mr. Belford and sir 
Harry Harlowe try to get possession of 
the money, by passing off Martin (Bel- 
ford’s servant) as sir Harry's son ; but it 
so happens that Belford is in love with 
Miss Stockwell, and hearing of the plot 
through Jenny, the young lady’s-maid, 
arrests the two servants as vagabonds, 
and old Stockwell gladly consents to his 
marriage with Nancy, and thinks himeelf 
well out of a terrible scrape. 


Nectaba’nus, the dwarf at the cell 
of the hermit of Engaddi.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Talisman (time, Richard I.). 


Nectar, the beverage of the gods. 
It was white as cream, for when Hebé 
spilt some of it, the white arch of heaven, 
called the Milky Way, was made. The 
food of the gods was ambrosia. 


Ned (Lying), ‘the chimney-sweeper 
of Savoy,” that is, the duke of Savoy, 
who juined the allied army ayainst France 
in the war of the Spanish Succession.— 
it Arbuthnot, History of John Bull 

712). 


Negro’ni, a princess, the friend of 
Lucrezia di Borgia. She invited the 
notables who had insulted the Korgia to 
a banquet, and killed them with poisoned 
wine.—Donizetti, Lucrena di Soryia 
(an opera, 1834). 


Ne’ sovercign of Abyssinia. 
Erco’co or Erquico cn the Red Sea marks 
boundary 


the north-east this empire. 








NEPHELO-COCCYGIA. 681 


That nepeathts which the wife of Thone 
“ Milton, Comms, 675 (1634). 
N thé ls a drink of sovereign grace, 


netead thereof 

It doth establish in the troubled mind . . . 

And euch as drink, eternal happiness do find. 

Spenser. Piséry Queen, tv. 3 (1588). 

Weph’elo-Coccyg’ia, the cloud- 
land of air castles. e word means 
‘cuckoo cloudland.” The city of Nephe- 
lo-Coccygia was built by cuckoos and 
gulls, and was so fortified by clouds 
that the could not meddle with the 
affairs of its inhavitants.—Aristophanés, 


* The name occurs also in Lucian’s 
Vera Historie. 
Without fying to Ni or to the court of 
meet with era, 


amours —Macaalay. 
Wep’omuk or Nep’omuck (&. 


John), canon of Prague. He was thrown 
from a bridge in 1381, and drowned by 
order of king Wenceslaus, because he 
refused to betray the secrets confided to 
him by the queen in the holy rite of con- 
fession. The spot whence he was cast 
into the Moldau is still marked by a 
cross with five stars on the pet, in- 
dicative of the miraculous flames seen 
flickering over the dead body for three 
days. Nepomuk was canonized in 1729, 
and became the patron saint of bridges. 
His statue in stone usually occupies a 
similar position on bridges as it does at 
Prague. 
Like St. John Nep’omuck In stone, 
Lovking down Into the stream. 
allow, The Golden Legend (1851). 

*.* The word is often accented on 

the second syllable. 


Neptune (Old Futher), the ocean or 
pea-god. 


Nerestan, son of Gui Lusignan 
D'Outremer king of Jerusalem, and 
brother of Zura. Nerestan was sent on 
his parole to France, to obtain ransom for 
certain Christians who had fallen into 
the hands of the Saracens. When Osman, 
the sultan, was informed of his relation- 
ship to Zara, he ordered all Christian 
captives to be at once liberated ‘* without 
money and without price."—A. Hill, 
Zura (adapted from Voltaire’s tragedy). 

Ne’reus (2 s/.), father of the water- 
nymphs, A very old prophetic god of 

t kindliness. The sealp, chin, and 
reast of Nereus were covered with sea- 
weed instead of hair. 


NESTOR, ETC. 


By hoary Néreus’ wrinkled look. 
Milton, Conene, 871 (1686. 


Neri’n6, Doto, and Nysé6, the 
three nereids who ed the fleet of 
Vasco da Gama. en the treacherous 
pilot had run Vasco’s ship upon a sunken 
tock, these three oy oymphs lifted up 
the prow and turned it roun 


The lovely Nyst and Neriné 
With all the pebemence tnt of wing. 
Camvens, Lusiad, 


% (198. 
Worissa, the clever confidential wait. 
ing-woman of Portia the Venetian heiress, 
Nerissa is the counterfeit of her mistress, 
with a fair share of the y's elegance 
and wit. She marries Gratiano a fri 
of the merchant Anthonio.—Shakes 
The Merchant of Venice (1698). 


gre of aay ae Christian II. 
0 mar. reigned 534-1588, 
died 1559). , 


Nesle (Blondel de), the favourite 
minstrel of Richard Coeur de Lion 
[Nesle= Neel].—Sir W. Scott, The Talis- 
man (time, Richard I.). 

Nessus’s Shirt. Nessos (in Latin 
Nessus), the centaur, carried the wife of 
Herculés over a river, and, attempting to 
run away with her, was shot by Herculés. 
As the centaur was dying, he told Del- 
ani’ra (5 sy/.) that if she steeped in his 
blood her husband's shirt, she would secure 
his love for ever. This she did, but 
when Hlerculés put the shirt on, his body 
suffered such ny, that he rushed to 
mount (Eta, collected together a pile of 
wood, set it on fire, and, rushing into the 
midst of the flames, was burnt to death. 

When Creadsa (3 sy/.), the daughter of 
king Creon, was about to be married to 
Jason, Medéa sent her a splendid wedding 
robe ; but when Creusa put it on, she was 
burnt to death by it in excruciating pain. 

Morgan le Fay, hoping to kill King 
Arthur, sent him a superb royal robe, 
Arthur told the messenger to try it on, 
that he might see its effect; but no 
sooner had the messenger done so, than 
he dropped down dead, ‘burnt to mere 
coal,"—Sir T. Malory, History of Prince 
Arthur, i. 75 (1470). 

Eros, bo! the shirt of Neus is upon me (ic. / em om 


Ghaksyesie, Antony and Cleopatra, act iv. os. 10 (1608). 


Nestor (A), a wise old man. Nestor 
of Pylos was the oldest and most ex- 
perienced of all the Greek chieftains whe 
went to the siege of Troy.— Homer, Jiiad. 


Nestor of the Ohemical Revo 





Saws oe 


NEW ZEALANDER. 





——————— a ee 


NEWSPAPERS. 





his paternal estates, sir Giles pays his | 


nephew's debts, and supplies him li ly 
with ready money, to bring about the 
marriage as soon as possible. Having 
paid Wellborn's debts, the overreach- 
ing old man is compelled, through the 
treachery of his clerk, to restore the 
estates also, for the deeds of conveyance 
are found to be only blank sheets of 
parchment, the writing having been 
erased by some chemical acids. 


New Zealander. It was Macaulay 
wha said the time might come when 
some “' New Zealand artist shall, in the 
midst of a vast solitude, take his stand on 
a broken arch of London bridye to sketch 
the ruins of St. Paul's," 

*.* Shelley was before Macaulay in 
the same conceit,—See Dedication of Peter 
Bell the Third. 


Newcastle (The duchess of), in the 
eourt of Charles I].—Sir W-. Scott, 


Peveril of the I’eak (time, Charles 11.). 


Newcastle (The marquis of), a royalist 
in the service of Charles I.—Sir W. Scott, 
Leyend of Muntroze (time, Charles I.). 


Wewcastle Apothecary (The), Mr. 
Bolus of Newcastle used to write his pre- 
scriptions in rhyme. <A bottle bearing the 
couplet, ‘* When taken to be well shaken,” 
was sent ton mitient, and when Lolus called 
next day tu inquire about its effect, John 
told the apothecary his master was dead, 
The fact is, Jolin had shaken the sick man 
instead of the bottle, and had shaken the 
life out of himsi.—G, Colnian, junior. 


Neweome (Ciemency), about 80 
vears old, witha plump and cheerful face, 
wut twisted into a tightness that made 
it comical, IJler gait was very homely, 
ber linibs seemed ol) odd ones ; her shoes 
were so self-willed that they never 
wanted to wo where her feet went. She 
wore blue stockings, a printed gown of 
hideous pattern and many colours, and a 
white apron. tler sleevea were short, 
ber elbuws always grazed, her cap any- 
where but in the right place; but she 
was scrupulously clean, and ‘maintained 
a kind of dislorated tidiness." She 
earricd in her pocket “a handkerchief, 
a piece of wax-candle, an apple, an 
orange, a lucky penny, & cramp-bone, 
e padlock, a pair of scissors, a handful 
Of limse Leads, several balls of worsted 
and cotton, a needle-case, a collection of 
eurl-papers, a biscuit, a thimble, ao 
butimey-grater, and a fuw miscellaneous 


articles.” Clemency Newcome married 
Benjamin Britain, her fellow-servant at 
Dr. Jeddler's, and opened a country 
inn called the Nutmeg-(rater, a cozy, 
well-to-do place as ine one could wish to 
see, and there were few married Lar ag ha 80 
well assorted as hg rig Phe 
Hritain.—C, Dickens, The Battle of Life 
(1846), 


Newcome (Colonel), o 
tinguished the the moral of his 
life. He loses his money and enters the 
Charter House. 

Clive Newcome, his son. He is in love 
with Ethel Newcome, his cousin, whom 
he marries ag his second wife.—" t- 
ray, The Newcomes (1855). 

Newcome (Jolnay), any mw youth 
when he first enters the army or navy. 


Wewgate Fashion (7o MarcA), 
two and two, as the prisovers were at one 
time conveyed to Newgate two and two 
together. 

Falsay, Moet ve all marcht 

SS ee Sewoule fasblon, 

L Mewry /7, act Ul ae. 8 (LSOT). 

Newgate Fringe, a beard worn only 
under the chin, as the hangman's rope is 
fastened round the neck of those about to 
be hanged. Sometimes called the Mew- 
gate Fril, and sometimes the Zyburs 
Cullar, 

The Newgate Knocker, a lock of hair 
Worn espec eclally by costermongers, twisted 
towards the ear. It is supposed to re- 
mind one of the knocker on the prison 
duor of Newgate. The cow-ick is a curl 
worn on the temples, 


Newland (Abrahum), one of the 
governors of the Bank of England, to 
whom, in the early part of the nineteenth 
century , all Bank of England notea were 
made payable. A bank-nete was called 
an “Abraham Newland ;" and hence the 
popularsong, ‘I've often heard say, sham 
Al'ram you may, but must not 
Abrahnm Newland.” 

Trees are poles ieee! from the hank of nature, and ng 
current do thoes pojyahle jo Abr Newlend.—G, Gol 
man, The Pour Gentleman, L i \ laud), 

Newspapers (Zhe Oldest), 

Stumpord Mercury, 1695. The editor 
says that No, 6833, July 7, 1626, means 
that the paper had arrived at the 688urd 
week of issue, or the 13lst year of ita 
existence. 

Nuttimjham Journal, 1710. 

Northampton Mercury, 1720, 

Glowester Journal, 1722. 

*," Chalmers saya that the first 


widower, dis- 








NIBELUNGERS. 


more than the first part. The number of 
lines in the two parts is 9886; so that 
the poem is almost as long as Milton's 
Paradise Lost. 

Nibelungers, whoever p 
the Nibelungen hoard. When it was in 
Le aye’ the at fo he were ay raga 
when Siegfri Seye. freed] @ pos- 
session Fit the ochorlasslurs were 80 
called ; and when the hoard was removed 
to Burgundy, the Burgundians were the 
Nibelungers. 

Nic. .the Duteh, as a nation ; 
as the English are called John Ball.—Dr. 
Arbuthnot, History of Juin Bull (1712). 

Wica'nor, “the Protospathaire,” a 
Greek general.—Sir W. Scott, Count 
Ribert of Paris (time, Rufus). 

Nice (Sir Court/y), the chief character 
and title of a drama by Croune (1685). 


Nicholas, « poor scholar, who boarded | 


with John, a rich old miserly carpenter, 
The poor scholar fell in love with Alison, 
hie landlord's young wife, who joined 
him in duping the fuolish old carpenter. 
Nicholas told John that soch a rain 
would fall on the ensuing Monday aos 
would drown every one in “less than 
an hour; and he persuaded the old 
fool to provide three latys tubs, one for 
himself, one for his wife, and the other for 
his lodger. In these tubs, said Nicholas, 
they would be saved; and when the flood 
abated, they would then be lords and 
masters of the whole earth. A few hours 
before the time of the “ flood," tha old 
carpenter went to the top chamber of his 
house to repeat his puter nosters, Le fell 
asleep over his prayers, and was roused 
by the ery of “Water! water! Help! 
help!" Supposing the rain had come, 
be jumped into his tub, and was let down 
by Nicholas and Alison into the street, 
A crowd soon assembled, were delighted 
at the joke, and pronounced the old man 
an idiot and Kick Chasiced, Cunterbury 
Zales (*! Lhe Miller's Tule,” 1388). 

Nicholas, the barber of the village in 
Which don (Juixote lived, — Cervantes, 
Don Quicote, 1. (1005), 

Nichulas (Lrother), a monk at St. 
Mary's Convent.--Sir W. Scott, The 
Munastery (time, Elizabeth). 

Nwholus (S2.), patron saint of boys, 
parish clerks, snilors, thieves, and of 
Aberdeen, Kuossia, etc. 


Nicholus (St.). The legend is, that an 





-80 called by a pun 





2 °@ eo. evan ne. 


NICKLEBY, 


angel told him a father was Bo poor he 
was about to raise money by the prostita- 
tion of his three daughters. On hearing 
this, St. Nicholas threw in at the cottage 
window three bags of money, sufficient 
to portion each of the three damsels, 
Of Nicholas, whieh data aniee be 
Rounteous bestowed, to mve their pogthfal prime 
Unblexnistved, 
Dantd, Purgatory, 11. (1308). 
Nicholas of the Tower (Tie), 





the duke of Exeter, constable the 


Tower. 
He was : | with o ahippe of warre 
to the duke of +, the eveatahie of the Towrs 
all , called The Nicholas gf the Towre.—Hall, 


Wicholas’s Clerks, highwaymen 
on ie eee Old 

Nick and St. Nicholas who presided over 

scholars, 

Kingnon, i ceesie of ie Nichelars cherbs—-Rowlee 

Match at Mic might (Les). 

St. Nicholas's Clerts, echolara ; so called 
because St. Nicholas was the patron of 
scholars. The statutes of Paul's School 
require the scholars to attend divine 
service on St. Nicholas's Day.—Knight, 
Lije of Dean Culet, 862 (1726). 

Nickleby (Nicholas), the chief cha- 
racter and title of a novel by U. Dickens 
(188s). He is the son of a poor country 
gentleman, and has to make his own way 
in the world. He first goes as usher to 
Mr. Squeers, schoolmaster at Dotheboys 
Hall, in Yorkshire; but leaves in dis- 

ust with the tyranny of Squeers and 
Gis wife, especially to a poor boy named 
Smike. Smike runs away from the school 
to follow Nicholas, and remains his 
humble follower till death, At Ports- 
mouth, Nicholas joins the theatrical 


company of Mr. Crummiles, but leaves 


the profession fur other adventures. He 
falls in with the brothers Cherryble, who 
make him their clerk; and in this 
he rises to become a merchant, and ulti- 
mately marries Madeline a 

Mra, Nwhleby, mother of Nicholas, and 
a widew. She is an enormous talker, 
fond of telling long stories with no con- 
nection, Mrs. Nickleby is a weak, vain 
wonan, who imagines an idiot neighbour 
is in luve with ber because he tosses 
cabbages and other articles over the gar- 
den wall. In conversation, Mrs. Nickleby 
rides off from the main point at every 
word suggestive of some new idea, Ags 
a specimen of her seyuence of ideas, 
take the following example:— “The name 
began with ‘B' and ended with ‘g,' J 





NINA-THOMA. 








NINON DE LENCLOS. 





tive betravon of Merlin. and says she 

enclosed him “in the four walls of a 

hollow tower;” but the History says 

60 Nimue put him under the stone " (pt. i. 
). 


Nina-Thoma, daughter of Tor- 
Thoma (chief of one of the Scandinavian 
islands). She eloped with Uthal (son of 
Larthmor a petty king of Berrathon, a 
neighbouring island); but Uthal soon 
tired of her, and, having fixed his affec- 
tions on ancther, confined her in a desert 
island. Uthal, who had also dethroned 
his father, was slain in single combat by 
Ossian, who had come to restore the 
deposed monarch to his throne. When 
Nina-Thoma heard of her husband's 
death, she languished and died, ‘for 
though moat cruclly entreated, her love for 


Uthal was not abated.’ '"—Ossian, Berra- 
thon, 
Nine. “It is by nines that Eastern 


presents are given, when they would ex- 
tend their magnificence to the highest 
deyree.” Thus, when Dakianos wished to 
ingratiate himself with the shah, 


He caused himacif to be precrded by nine superb camels. 

The first was loaded with nine suits of path adorned with 

le; the secund bore nine sabres, the bilts and acab- 

of which were adorned with diamonds; upon the 

rd camel were nine sults of armour; the ‘tourth hed 

nine mits of bore furniture; the fifth had nine cases fall 

of mpphires; the sixth had nine canes f full of rubles; the 

eeventh nine cases full of emeralds; the eighth had ‘Bine 

caste full of amethyots: and the valuth had nine cases full 

of dl dlamonds —Zonite de Cazlue « priental Tates (** Dakla- 
mos and the Seven Sleepers, 


Nine Gods (Tic) of the Etruscans : 
Juno, Minerva, and Tin’ia (the three chief). 
The other six were Vulcan, Mars, Saturn, 
Hlerculés, Summa’nus, and Vedius. (See 
NoveEnsi.es.) 

Lars Por's#na of Cludam, 
By the nine gods he swore 
That the great howe of Tarquin 
Shoal! euffer eroag ao more, 
By the nine gods he »wore it, 
And named a trysting day 
To summon his array. 
Lord emma 4 lay of Ancient Rome 
uratiua,” £., 1842), 


Wine Orders of Angels (The): 
(1) Seraphim, (2) Cherubim (in the first 
cwcle) ; (3) Thrones, (4) Dominions (in 


the second circle) ; (5 p Archange 6 
@) “Prime ‘8) A (6) Ee ts, (93 


ore 
The efuilgent bands in cireles 
faa, Jens Daler OR 


(3) Archangeles, (3) Virtetes, ny Fotomate 
Hes rcipain, () Domnth pa Re rerey 34 (4.9. eae 
Nine Planets (The): Mercury, 
Venus, the Earth, Mars, the P1 
he eg Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. 

* According to the Ptolemaic system, 
there, are only take Pt or 
strictly the Moon, planetary vens,” 
viz., th lercury, Venus, the Sun, 
Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Beyond these 
were three other spheres, that of the fixed 


or more 


stars, the primum mobile, and the em- 
py rea. is is the system Danté follows 
in his . 


Nine Worthies (Zhe). Three were 

ans: Hector, Alexander, and Julius 

. Three were Jews: Joshua, David, 

and Judas Maccabeus. Three were 

Christians: Arthur, Charlemagne, and 
Godfrey of Bouillon. 


Nine Worthies (privy councillors to 
William Hl.). our were Whigs: 


Devonshire, Dorset, Monmouth rant 
Edward Russell. Five were 
Caermarthen, Pembroke, Nottingham, 


Marlborough, and Lowther. 


Nine Worthies of London ( Tic): 
sir William Walworth, sir Henry Prit- 
chard, sir William Sevenoke, sir Thomas 
White, sir John Bonham, Christopher 
Croker, sir John Hawkwuod, sir Hugh 
Caverley, and sir Henry Maleverer. 

e chronicles of these nine 
worthies are written in prose and verse 
by Richard Johnson (1492), author of 
The Seren Champions of Christendom. 


Nineve (2 sy/.), the Lady of the Lake, 
in Arthurian romance. 


Lady of the Lake, that was friendly unte 
king Arther. understood her subtie that he was 
like to have been dest 3 aden the Lady of the Laks, 

hight Ineve, ‘came into, the forest to ssek ot 


Lau du 
Artaur, 11, 87 ion 


*,* This name occurs three times m 
the "Morte d Arthur—once as “ Nimue,” 


- once as *‘ Nineve,” and once as ‘‘ Ninive.” 


Probably ‘“ Nimue” (q.0.) is @ clerical 
error. 


Ninon de Lenclos, s beautiful 
Parisian, rich, spirituelle, and an atheist, 
who abandoned herself to epicurean .2- 


dulgence, and preserved her charms te @ 





NOAH’S WIFE. 


~ Woah’s Wife, Wailea (8 syil.), who 
endeavoured to persuade the people that 
her husband was distraught. 
The wife of Nonh (Wate) and the wife of Lot 
Wéhela) were both unhel and deceived their 
usbands . .. and It shall be enld to them at the lest day, 
* Enter ye into hell fire."—Sale, 4{ Loran, Invi. 
Wobbs, the horse of ‘‘Dr. Dove of 
Doncaster.”—Southey, Zhe Doctor (1884), 


Noble ( The), Charles III. of Navarre 
(1361, 1387-1425). 
1 “om Tchelibi, the Turk (died 
410 
* Khosrou or Choerods I. was called 
6s The Noble Soul” (*, 531-579). 


Nodel, the lion, in the beast-epic 
called Reynard the For. Nodel, the lion, 
represents the reyal element of German 
Isenyrin, the wolf, represents the baronial 
element ; and Rey nard, the fox, the 
Church element (1498). 


Noel (Eusebe), schoolmaster of Bout 
du Monde. ‘‘Ilis clothes are old and 
worn, and his manner vacant” (act i. 2). 
—E. Stirling, The Gold-Mine or Miller of 
ene (1854). 


Noggs (4 (Newnan), Ralph Nickleby’s 
clerk. tall man, of middle age, with 
two goggle eyes (one of which was 
fixed), a rubicund nose, a cadaverous 
face, and a suit of clothes decidedly the 
worse for wear. He had the gift of dis- 
torting and cracking his finger-joints, 
This kind-hearted, dilapidated fellow 
ss Ke t his hunter and hounds once,” but 
rough his fortune. He discovered 
a plot of old Ralph, which he confided to 
the Cheery ble brothers, who frustrated it 
and then provided for Newman. —C, 
Dickens, Nicholus Nickleby (13838). 


Noko’mis, mother of Weno’nah, and 
grandmother of Hiawatha. Nikomis 
was the daughter of the Moon. While 
she was swinging one day, some of her 
companions, out of jealousy, cut the ropes, 
and she fell to earth in a meadow. The 
same night her first child, a daughter, 
was born, and was named Wenonah. 


There among the ferns ahd mosses. 
Fair Nokon bore a daughter, 
Aud she called ber name Wenonah, 
Longfellow, Hiawatha, Il. (1883). 


Non Mi Ricordo, the usual 
answer of the Italian courier and other 
Italian witnesses when on examination at 
the trial of queen Charlotte (the wife of 
George 1V.), in 1820. 


The Italian witnesws often created ammsament. when 
under examination, by the frequet.t answer, ‘Non mf 
thoordo. ‘—Camell's History of Angland, via iv. 1 





NORLAND. 


‘Lord Flint,” in Such Things Are, 
Mrs. Inchbald (1786), when sated "a 
question he wished to evade, used 
reply, ‘* My people know, no “doubt, bat 
I cannot reco 

‘“‘ Pierre Choppard,” in The Courier of 
Lyons, by Edward Stirling (1852), when 

asked an agly question, always answered, 
“Ti ask my wife, my memory's so 
8 
e North American society called the 
** Know Nothings,” founded in 18538, used 
to reply to every question about them- 
selves, ‘‘I know nothing about it.” 


Nona’‘cris’ Stream, the river 
Styx, in Arcadia, Cassander cays be 
has in a phial some of this “horrid 
spring,” one drop of which, mixed with 
wine, would act asa deadly poison. Te 
this Polyperchon replies : 

» for I have seen it tried. 





Nonentity (Dr.), a metaphysician, 
and thought by most people to be a pro- 
found scholar. Ile generally spreads 
himself before the fire, sucks his pi 
talks littJe, drinks much, and is recko 

good company. You may know him 
by is long grey wig, and the blue hand- 
kerchief round his neck. 


malice eomyes cid revises any work with © tagie 
on enanys, we any a 
—Goldatnith, 


hori 4 Citioen of the World, 
Nones and Ides (each 1 syi.). 


the year. 
If to the Nunes you ald an 8, 
Of all the Ides you'll find the date. 


Hence we have the 15th for the Ides of 
March, June, July, and October; and the’ 
13th for every other month. 


Norbert (Father), Pierre Parisot Nore 
bert, the French missionary oth, aang 


Norfolk Street A abe an 
Arundel, Surrey, and Howard § 

upy the site of the house and 
of the Howards (earls of 
Surrey). 


Norland (Zerd), father of lady 
Eleanor Irwin, and guardian of lad 
Ramble (Miss Maria Wooburn). Ile 
disinherited his daughter for marrying 
ayainst his will, and left her to starve 
but subsequently relented, and reli 
her wants and those of her young bus 


Sand 
el and 








NORUMBEGA. 691 





- Norumbe’ga, A province of North 
America. 

Of Norumbegs and the Bamoed shore. . . 

Buress aod Cmrias, and Argestés loud, 

And la rend the woods, and aes upturn. 

Milton, Purwedilee Leet, x. G00 (605). 

*.* “(Samoed shore,” the shore con- 
tiguous to the frozen ocean; ' Borena," 
north wind; “* Ceecias,” north-west wind; 
“ Argestés," north-east wind; ‘* Thras- 


cias,” wind from Thrace. 


Norval (O/d), a shepherd, who brings 
up lady Randolph's son (Douglas) as his 
own, He was hidden at birth ina basket, 
because sir Malcolin (her father) hated 
Douglas, whom she had privately mar- 
ried. The child being found by old 
Norval, was brought up as his own, but 
the old man discovered that the foundling 
was “sir Malcolm's heir and Douglas's 
gon." When 18 years old, the foster-son 
gaved the life of lord Randolph. Lady 
Randolph took great intereatin the young 
man, and when old Norval told her his 
tale, she instantly perceived that the 
young bero was in fact her own son. 

Pathos rendered the wolee of Willlam Berneley [1728- 
1817) in “Old Norval rogeed os well ao repulsive; and 
he never, a: to hile feet, elther stowed of walked with the 
Character ol see, Hila belple ection hed a charactor of 
retired vier; be loplurel pity In the ooly shout 
of deflance.—lioaden, 

Youny Norval, the infant exposed, and 
brought up by the old shepherd as his 
own son, He turned out to be sir Mal- 
eolm's heir, His mother was lady Kan- 
dolph, nnd his father lord Douglas, her 
first husband. Young Norval, having 


saved the life of lord Randolph, was | 
given by him a commission in the army, | 


Glenalyon, the heir-presumptive of lord 


Randolph, hated the new favourite, and | 
persuaded hia lordship that the young | 


man was too familiar with lady Randolph, 
Being way laid, Nurval wos attacked, slew 
Glenalvon, but was in tarn slain by lord 
Randolph, After the death of Norval, 
lord Randolph discovered that he had 
killed the son of his wife by a former 
marriage. The mother, in her distrac- 
tion, threw herself headlong from a lofty 
precipice, and lord Randolph went to the 
war then raging between Denmark and 
Scotland.—J, llime, Jéuwylas (1757). 

(This was a favourite character with 
John Kemble, 1737-182.) 

Dewy Jchosten elected “ Young Norval™ for hils 
makien part Tlie geathfel for and halen ee 
dv cwsionnes wou for hoo onolversal agguerrdieton. 
Previoiely the yuan shapers hil Leen dee) io Le 
feces and Bevstich jacket: but when Juhaston appeared in 
full Highland catone, blit, breastplate, efibekil 
ail bonnet, the whole hue nee re eee, or mech oO 
Fretepthen eae never wileeses| within the wally of « 
provincial theatre Lefore,—W, Donaldson, Secellections, 





NOTTINGHAM, 


- - i 

Worway (The Fair Maid of), Mar- 
garet, granddaughter of Alexander III. 
of Scotland. he died (1290) of sen 
sickness on her passage from Norway to 
Scotland. Her father was Eric 11. king 
of Norway, and her mother was Margaret 
only daughter of Alexander III, 


Wose (olden), Tycho Bridé, the 
Danish astronomer. Having lost tis nose 
in a duel with one Passberg, he :slopted 
a golden one, and attached it to his face 
by a cement which be carried about with 

im. 





Nosebag (J/rs.), wife of a lieutenant 
in the dragoons. She is the inquisitive 
travelling companion of Waverley when 
he travels bw stage to London.—Sir W. 
Scott, Waverley (time, George IT.). 


Nosey (lay up)! This exclamation 
was common in our theatres in the days 
of Macklin, etc. M. Nozay was 
leader of the orchestra in Covent Garden 
Theatre, 

*.* Some persons affirm that “ Old 
Nosey™ was Cervetto, the violoncello 
player at Drury Lane (1753), and say 
that he was so called from his long nose. 

Napolcon III. was nicknamed Grosbee 
(** Nosey "). 


Wosnot-Bocai [o'.4y], prince of 
purgatory. 
Bir, 0 last night recelved command 
To are you out of Paary-hanel 
Inte the realng off Mcoret-[iwrnll, 
Klug, Grplhows aud Furydilce, 
Nostrada’mus (Afichoel), an ns- 
trologer of the sixteenth century, who 
published an annual Almanac and a Jie- 
cucil of Prophecies, in verse (1503-1566). 


Nostrada’mus of Portugal, Gon- 
galo Anots Dandarra, a poet-cobbler, 
whose career was stopped, in 1556, by the 
Inquisition, 

Nottingham (Tie countess of), a 
quondam sweetheart of the earl of Fssex, 
and his worst enemy when she heard that 
he had married the countess of Rutland, 
The queen sent her to the Tower to ask 
Essex if he had no petition to make, and 
the carl requested her to take back a ring, 
which the queen bad given him asa pledge 
of mercy in time of need, As the coun- 
teas out of jealousy forbore bo deliver it, 
the carl was executed.— Henry Jones, 
Tie Earl of Essex (1745). 








NOUROUNNIHAR. 


before he waa half dead.—W. Beckford, 
Vathek (1784). 

Wouroun'nihar, niece of a sultan 
of India, who had three sons all in love 
with her. The sultan said he would give 
her to him who, in twelve mon‘hs, gave 
him the most valuable present. The 
three princes met in a certain inn at the 
expiration of the time, when one prince 
looked through o tube, which showed 
Nourounnibar at the point of death; 
another of the brothers transported 
three instantaneously on a magic carpet to 
the princess's chamber; and the third 


brother gave her an apple to smell of, | 


which effected an instant cure. It was 
impossible to decide which of these 
presents was the most valuable; so the 
sultan said he should have her who shot 
an arrow to the greatest distance, The 
eldest (Houssain) shot first; Ali overshot 
the arrow of his elder brother: but that 
of the youngest brother (Ahmed) could 
nowhere be found. So the award was 
given to Ali,—Arabian Nijlts (‘Ahmed 
and Pan-Banou"™). 


Novel (Father of the English). Henry 
Fielding is so called by sir W. Scott 
(1707-1754). 

November or Slot-monath, te. 
"blood month,” meaning the month in 


which oxen, sheep, and swine were | 


blauphtered, and afterwards salted down 
for winter use. Some idea may be formed 
of the enormous stores provided, from 
the fact that the elder Spencer, in 1327, 
when the season was over, had a surplus, 
in May, of “0 salted beeves, 500 bacona, 
and f{) muttons.” In Chichester the 
October fair is called “Sli-fair,” we. 
the fair when beasts were sold for the 
glaushter of Blot-month (Old English, 
sléun sioh, “to slaughter"), 


Noven'dial Ashes, the ashes of 
the dead just consigned, or alwut to be 
consined, to the yrave. The Romans 
kept the body seven days, burnt it on the 
eighth, and buried the ashes on the 
ninth, ' 

A Noven'idir! Aoliday, nine days set 
spent by the Romana, in expiation of a 

ower of stones, 


WNoven'siles (4 #yl.), the nine Sabine | 


rods: viz., Hercul’s, Romulus, Escu- 
Eine liacchus, -Enens, Vesta, Santa, 
‘Fortuna, and Filéa or Faith. (See Nixz 
Gons of the Etruscans.) 


Novit (Afr. Nichil) the lawyer of the | 


a a EEE 


NUMBER NIP. 


old laird of Dumbiedikes.—Sir W. Scott, 
Heart of Midlothian (time, George I1.), 


Novius, the usurer, famous for the 

loudness of his voice. 
a . - «at hie of plaastra dacenta 
Coriia al Tinciigoe tila Le 

pes rapes me est eb Sop 
me Sony eget en the boise of coruen, 

Now-now ((id Anthony), an itine- 
rant fiddler. The character is a skit on 
Anthony Munday, thedramatist,—Chettle, 
Xindheart's Dream (1592). 

Wuath (2 sy/.), father of Lathmon 
and Oith’ona (qg.c.).—Ossian, Dithona, 

WNubbles|rs.), a poor widow woman, 
who was much given to going to Little 
Bethel. | 

Christopher or Kit Nubbles, hor son, the 
servant in attendance on little Ne 
whom he adored. After the death o 
little Nell, Kit married barbara, a fellow- 
servant.—C. Dickens, The Old Curiosity 
Shop (1840). 


Wudio'si, small stones, which 
vent the sight of those who carry them 
about their person from waxing dim, 
They will even restore the sight after it 
is lost or impaircd. The more these 
stones are gazed on, the keener will be 
the gazer's vision. Prester John, in his 
letter to Manuel Comne'nus emperor of 
Constantinople, says they are found in 
his country. 


Nugget. The largest ever found: 

1. The SaraA Sands nawpyet, found at 
Ballarat. Jt weighed 130 lbs. troy or 
Lhi0 ox, This, at £4 per ounce, would 
be worth £6240), 

2. The Blanche Barkly mwjqet, dug u 
at Kingower. It weighed 145 lbs., an 
was worth £5900, 

8h. The Welcome nujget, found at Bal- 
larat. It weighed 184 lbs., and was sold 
for £10,000. This wag the largest ever 
found. 

*,* The first nugget was discovered in 
New South Wales, in 1851; the next in 
Victoria, in 1852. The former of these 
two weighed o hundredweight, and waa 
purchased of a shepherd for £10, 


Wulla Fides Fronti. 


There js no art 
To Gad the mind's construction in the fare. 
Slakejpeare, Nacketh, act a 4 (1005) 
Number Nip, the name of the 
ome king of the Giant Mountaings,—- 
useus, Popular Tales (1782). 

















the Toppan 
sgt be engraved on less than half 
column of this dictionary, provided both 
sides were used. (See IL1Ap, p. 468.) 


Wym, ral in the army under 
captain sir John Falstaff, introduced in 
Merry Wives of Windsor and in 
Feary V., but not in Afenry JV. It 
seems that lieutenant Peto had died, and 
ven a step to the officers under him, 
‘hus ensign Pistol becomes lieutenant, 
corporal Bardolph becomes ensign, and 
Nym takes the place of Bardolph. He 
ja an arrant rogue, and both he and 
Bardolph are hanged (Henry V.). The 
word means to “ pilfer.” 
ft would be dificult to give pag otnar say See teas 


opel Nym—it wos the author's bameur 
Gir W. Boot. 


Wymphid'ia, a mock-heroic by 
Desyine. The fairy Pigwiggen is so 
gallant to queen Mab as to arouse the 
Sealouny of king Oberon. One day, 
coming home and finding his queen 
absent, Oberon vows vengeance on the 
gallant, and sends Puck to ascertain the 
whereabouts of Mab and Pigwiggen. In 
the mean time, Nymphidia gives the 
queen warning, and the queen, with all 
her maids of honour, creep into a hollow 
nut for concealment, Puck, coming up, 
gets foot in the enchanted circle which 
Nymphidia had charmed, and, after 
stumbling about for a tine, tumbles into 
aditch. Pigwiggen seconded by Tomalin, 
encounters Oberon seconded by Tom 
Thom, and the fight is ‘both fast and 
furious.” Queen Mab, in alarm, craves 
the interference of Proserpine, who first 
envelopes the combatants in ao thick 
emoke, which compels them to desist; 
and then gives them a draught ‘‘to as- 
suage their thirst.” The draught was 
from the river Lethé; and immediately 
the combatants had tasted it, they forgot 
not only the cause of the quarrel, but 
even that they had quarrelled at all.—M. 
Drayton, Nymphidia (1590). 


Wysa, daughter of Siléno and Mys'is, 
and sister of Daphn®, Jnstice Mi'das is 
in love with her; but she lovea Apollo, 
ber father's guest.—Kane O'Hara, JWidas 
(1764). 


Nys6é, Doto, and Neri'ne, the 
three nereids who went before the feet 
of Vascoda Gania. When the treacherous 
pilot steered the ship of Vasco towards a 
sunken rock, these three sea-nymphs 
lifted up the prow and turned it round.— 
Camoens Lusiad, ii. (1569), 


af 





process, the entire Hiad | 


—_ eae 


OATHS. 


0, 


O (Our Lady of). The Virgin Mary 
is cated in Bis, old Raman rit 
from the ejaculation at the beginning | 
the seven anthems preceding the Mag- 
nificat, as: ““O when will the day are 
rive... ?” “Owhen shall[ see.. .?” 
“Owhen. .. ?” and 60 or, ‘ 
Oak, The Romans gave a crown cf 
oak leaves to him who saved the life of a 
citizen. 
To a cruel war | sent him; from whence he returned, 


hula 
| ect Lo BL 


Oekly (Major), brother to Mr. Oakly, 
and uncle to Charles. He assista his 
brother in curing his “jealous wife.” 
Mr, Oatly, husband of the “ jealous 
wife.” <A very amiable man, but de- 
ficient in that strength of mind which 


| is needed to cure the idiosyncrasy of 


his wife; so he obtaina the assistance 
of his brother, the major. 

Mrs. Oukly, “ the jealous wife" of Mr, 
Oakly. A woman of such suspicious 
temper, that every remark of ber husband 
is distorted into a proof of bis infidelity. 
She watches him like a tiger, and makes 
both her own and her husband's Life 
uiterly wretched. 

Charles Oakly, nephew of the majer. 
A fine, noble-spirited young fellow, w'1o 
would never sland by and see a women 
insulted ; but a desperate debanchee and 
drunkard, He aspires to the love of 
Harriot Russet, whose influence over him 
ia sufficiently powerful to reclaim him.— 
George Colman, The Jeulows Wife (1761). 


Oates (Dr, Titns), the champion of 


| the popish plot.—Sir W. Scott, FPeverd 


of the Peak (time, Charles I1.). 


Forth cune the notoriows Dr. Oates, rustling In the fol 
ken canonicals of prieatheml, for... he affected mp 
mall dignity of exterior deonration ard NE. . 4 © 
His cateriot wea portentoga A fleece of white periwig 
showed! o coset uncouth viege, of great length, having the 
meth... Placed lo the very centre of the countruance, 
ard exhildting to the asteniatel spectator a much chim 


to bitmeeit.—Ch. sil. 

Oaths, 

Joux Perrot, a natural son of Henry 
VIII., waa the first to employ the pro- 
fane oath of God's Wownds, which cuees 
EvizanetTn adopted, but the ladies of he» 
court minced and softened it into zownds 
and souteriuns 





OBI. 





OCTAVIAN. 





his mistress. This drove John into re- 
bellion, and he joined the anabaptists. 
The count was taken prisoner by Gio’na, 
a discarded servant, but was liberated by 
John. When John was crowned prophet- 
king, the count entered the banquet-hall 
to arrest him, and perished with him in 
the flames of the burning palace.—Meyer- 
beer, Le Prophete (opera, 1849). 


Obi. Among the negroes of the West 
Indies, ‘‘ Obi" is the name of a magical 
power, supposed to affect men with all 
the curses of an ‘‘evil eye.” 


Obi-Woman (An), an African sor- 
@eress, a worshipper of Mumbo Jumbo. 


Obi’dah, a young man who meets 
with various adventures and misfortunes 
allegorical of human life.—Dr. Johnson, 
The Rambler (1750-2). 


Obid'icut, the fiend of lust, and one 
of the five which possessed ‘‘ poor Tom.” 
—Shakespeare, Aing Lear, act iv. sc. 1 
(1605). 


O’Brallaghan (Sir Callaghan), ‘a 
wild Irish soldicr in the Prussian army. 
His military humour makes one fancy he 
was not only born in a siege, but that 
Bellona bad been his nurse, Mars his 
schoolmaster, and the Furies his play- 
fellows” (acti. 1). He is the successful 
suitor of Charlotte Goodchild.—Macklin, 
Lore a-ta-mode (1759). 


O’Brien, the Irish lieutenant under 
captain Savage.—Captain Marryat, Peter 
Simple (1833). 

Observant Friars, those friars 
who observe the rule of St. Francis: to 
abjure books, land, house, and chapel, 
to live on alms, dress in rags, feed on 
scraps, and sleep any where. 


Obsid’ian Stone, the /apis Obsidia’- 
mus of Pliny (Nat. /fist., xxxvi. 67 and 
xxxvi. 76), A black diaphanous stone, 
discovered by Obsidius in Ethiopia. 

For with Obddlan stone "twas chiefly Uned. 
Sir W, Cavenant, Gundibert, Ll. 6 (died 1688) 

Obstinate, an inhabitant of the City 
of Destruction, who advised Christian to 
return to his family, and not run on a 
wild-goose chase. — Bunyan, Pilyrim's 
Prev jress, i. (16738). 

Obstinate as a Breton, a French 


proverbial phrase. 


Occasion, the mother of Furor; an 

ugly, wrinkled old hag, lame of one foot. 

er head was bald behind, but in front 

she had a few hoary locks. Sir Guyon 
30 


seized her ged her, and bound her.— 
Spenser, Pasry Queen, ii. 4 (1590). 


Oce’ana, an ideal republic, on the 
plan of Plato's Atlantis. It represents 
the author's notion of a model com- 
monwealth.—James Harrington, Oceana 
(1656). 


Ochiltree (Old Edie), a king’s bedes- 
man or blue-gown. Edie is a garrulous, 
kind-hearted, wandering beggar, who 
assures Mr. Lovel that the sup ruins 
of a Roman camp is no such ing. The 
old bedesman delighted ‘‘to daunder 
down the burnsides and ‘green shaws.” 
He is a well-drawn character.—Sir W. 
Scott, The Antiquary (time, George IIT.). 


Ocnus (The Rope of), profitiess labour. 
Ocnus is represented as twisting with 
unwearied diligence a rope, which an ass 
eats as fast as it is made. The allegory 
signifies that Ocnus worked hard to earn 
money, which his wife spent by her ex- 
travayance, 


Octa, a mountain from which the 
Latin poets say the sun rises. 


Octave (2 syi.), the son of te 
(2 syl.). During the absence of his 
ather, Octave fell in love with Hya- 
cinthe daughter of Géronte, and married 
her, supposing her to be the daughter 
of signior Pandolphe of Tarentam. His 
father wanted him to marry the daughter 
of his friend Géronte, but Octave would 
not listen to it. It turned out, however, 
that the daughter of Pandolphe and the 
daughter of Géronte were one and the 
same person, for Géronte had assumed 
the name of Pandolphe while he lived in 
Tarentum, and his wife and daughter 
stayed behind after the father went to 
live at Naples.—Molitre, Les Fourberica 
de Scapin (1671). 

*,* In the English version, called The 
Cheats of Scapin, by Thomas Otway, 
Octave 1s called “Octavian,” Argante 
is called ‘‘ Thrifty,” Hyacinthe is called 
‘* Clara,” and Géronte is ‘‘ Gripe.” 


Octavian, the lover of Floranthe. 
He goes m ause he fancies that 
Floranthé loves another; but Roque, a 
blunt, kind-hearted old man, assures him 
that dofa Floranthé is true to him, and 
induces him to return home. —Colman 
the younger, The Mountaineers (1793). 


Octavian, the English form of “Octave” 
2 syl.), in Otway's Cheats of Scapia, 
tee OcTave.) 








ODYSSEY. 





699 OFFA'S. DYKE. 





Il. Telemachos, the son of Odysseus, 
starts in search of his father, accom- 
panied by Pallas in the guise of Mentor, 

11]. Goes to Pylos, to consult old 
Nestor, and 

IV. Is sent by him to Sparta; where 
he is told by Meneliios that ¢ Odysseus ia 
detained in the island of Calypso. 

V. In the mean time, Odysseus leaves 
the island, and, being shipwrecked, is cast 
oo the shore of Phiedcia, . 

Vi. Where Nausicia, the king's 
es es finds him asleep, and 

Takes him to the court of her 
gather Alcinios, who 

VIII. Entertains him hospitably. 

IX. Ata banquet, Odysseus relates his 
adventures since he started from Troy, 
Tells about the Lotus-eaters and the 
Cyclops, with his adventures in the cave 
of Poly phemos. He tells how 

X. The wind-god gave him the winds 
ina bag. In the island of Circé, he says, 
his crew were changed to swine, but 
Mercury gave him a herb called Moly, 
which disenchanted them. 

XI. He tells the king how he de- 
scended into bades ; 

X11. Gives an account of the sy Tens; of 
Scvila and (Charvbdis; and of bis being 
east on the island of Calypso, 

XII. Alcinoos gives Udvsseus a ship 
which conveys him to Ithaca, where he 
assumes the disyruise of a bear, 

XIV. And is lodged in the house of 
Euinuwos, a faithful old domestic. 

XV. Telewachos, having returned to 
Ithaca, is lodged in the same house, 


XVI. And lecumes known to his 
father. 
XVIT. Odyssens goes to his palace, is 


recognized liv his dos Argos; but 
XVII1. The besyvar Iros insults him, 
anil (iivssens birenks his jaw-bone, 


XIX, While bathing, the returned mon- | 


arch ia recognized by a scar on hia le 
XX. And when he enters his cal bs 
becvimes an eve-wilnesa to the disorders 
af the court, and to the way in which 
XXL. Penelope is pestered by suitors. 
Ty excuse herself, enelope tells ber 
suitors he only shall be her husband who 
can lwnid Usiveseus's bow. None can do 
a lit the straner, who bends it with 
ease, (Concealuient is po longer possible 
or desiralile § 
XX. Ile falls on the suitors hip and 
thigh ; . 
XXIII. Is recognized by his wife; 
XXIV. Visits his old father Laertés ; 
and the poem ends, 


| we have (Edipus 
(Edipe, 


| body of old 
| feet, she stabbed herself. 





(Ha‘grian Harpist (The , 
pheus son of Cka’gros and C olf no 


Disten hes Renda wiancer the wine wick 


iBagrian for erin 
aliens with hanger a allt thee pew 
n. Browns, Jritaania’s Pasteraa, ¥, 


Ge'dipos (in Latin dipus), son 
Lajus and Jocasta, The son Mrsaed 
tale of classic story. 

*,” This tale has furnished the subject 
matter of several tragedies. In Greek 

nus and (CEdipus at 
toclés, In French, 
by Gorneilie ° (1609) (Edipe, by 
Voltaire (1718) ; Cee ole « Admete, by 
J. F. Ducis (1778) ; 2a oe 
a Colone, by Chenier; ete. In Eng 
C&lipus, by Dryden and Lee. 


GEno’ne (3 sy/.), a nymph of mount 
Ida, who had the gift of prophecy, and 
told her husband, Paris, that voy 
to Greece would inv olve him and hum 
country (Troy) in ruin. When the dead 
iam's son waa laid at hex 


Colonus, ta 


Hither came at moon 
Moornfal (Koiird, wandering forlorn 
iW Maria, oboe ber playmates on the bills [fata], 
Tennyson, 


*,” Kalkbrenner, in 1804, made this 
the subject of an opera. 

GSno'pian, father of Mer’op@, to 
whom the giont Orion made advances, 
(Enopian, unwillin ee give his rhter 
to him, put out giant's eyes in e 
drunken fit. 

PP peoe 
Reeled a3 of yore beside the wna, 
Whew blinded bey Coogan. 
Loagfelluw, The Gerwliation of Orie, 

@te’'an Enight (Tic). Mer'cul’s ig 
so called, because he burnt himself to 
death on mount (Eta or (Etea, in Thessaly, 


Bo ales did thet gread (Etean bight 
Fur ho love's sake _ [e's skim aesligtht. 
Fadry Queen, v. 6 (150), 


Offa, king of Mercia, was the son of 


| Thingferth, and the eleventh in deseeng 


from Woden. Thus: Woden, (1) his son 
Wihtleg, (2) his son Wermund, (3) Uffa 
+, (4) Angeltheow, (5) Eouuer, (6) Icel, 
7) Pybba, (8) Osmed, (9) Enwalf, (10) 
“hingferth, (11) Offa, whose #00 was 
Eyfert who died within a year of his 
father. His daughter, Eadburga, married 
Bertric king of the West Saxons; and 
after the death of her husband, shoe went 
to the court of king Charlie ie Offs 
reigned thirty-nine years (755-794), 
Offa's Dyke, a dyke from amy A 
to Flintshire, repaired by Offa king of 








OITHONA. 


brought about a happy recanciliation.— 
Ossian, Oina-Morw!, 
Oith'ona, daughter of Nulith, be- 
pa lomge to Gaul son of Morni, and the 
of their marriage was fixed; but 
se hs the time arrived, Fingal sent for 
Gaul to aid him in an expedition against 
the Britons, Gaul promised Oithona, if 
he survived, to return by o certain day. 
Lathmon, the brother of Uithons, was 
called away from home at the same time, 
to attend his father on an expedition ; 80 
the damsel was left alone in Dunlathmon. 
It was now that Dunrommath lord of 
Uthal (one of the Orkneys) came and 
carried her off by force to Trom‘athon, a 
desert island, where he concealed her in 
acave. Gaul returned on the day ap- 
inted, heard of the rape, sailed for 
m‘athon, and found the lady, who 
told him ber tale of woe; but scarcely 
had she ended when Dunrommath entered 


the cave with his followers. Gan) in- | 


stantly feli on him, and slew him, While 
the battle was mying, Oithona, arrayed 
asa warrior, rushed into the thickest of 
the fight, and was slain. When Gaul had 
cut off the head of Dunronmath, he saw 
what he thought a youth dying of a 
wound, and taking off the helmet, per- 
ceived it was QWithona, She died, and 
Gaul returned disconsolate to Dunlath- 
moo.—Ussian, Vit/hvna. 


O. E., all correct. 

“You are galte mfe now. and we shall be of | 
mlnute,~ dary. “The der be hick, <a tie Bak 
oO. K*—E H. Burton, freee af tha Prince's, UL 32 

Okba, one of the sorcerers in the caves 
of Dom-Daniel “under the routs of the 
ocean.” Jt was decreed by fate that one 
of the race of Hodei’rah (3 sy/.) would 
be fatal to the sorcerers; so Okba was 
gent forth to kill the whole race both 
root and liranch, Tle succeeded in cutting 
off eight of them, lut Thal'aba contrived 
to warape. Abdaldar was sent to hunt 
down the aurvivor, but was himself killed 
by @ Simon. 


“ure on thee, (kha !" Khawls erie, ... 
“ihhe, wert Wie wok of hewrit 
he, ert hed belo of ope? 
Thy fate std ar were on the lot , 
Tiinas het lat elp the rele uf Destiny. 
(ures flee, Corer . Wiehe 2 
Beiitbey, FPliaids ilies the itrerpr, U. 7 TL 


O’Kean aaa nunt), a quondam 
admirer of Mra. Margaret Dertram of 
Singleside.—Sir W. Scott, Guy Jfunner- 
it) (tine, leorge LI.). 


Olave, |rother of Norma, and grand-— 


father of Minna and lirenda Troil.—Sir 
W. Scott, Zhe J‘irate (time, William III). 





701 OLD GLORY. 


Old restored to Youth, 
The og des means are efficacious :— mai 
The de jouvence, *' cui fit rajo- 
venir la gent ;” the fountain of Bi’mini 
the river of juvescence at the foot 
Olympus ; the dancing water, presented 
by prince Chery to Fairetar; the broth of 


etc. 
Wes are also told pri ing old men 
0 rene old, ~~ 


into young. i ara Raw 
i] bool 


restored to the 
iven him by | eae the ee youd 


ring 
Hebe bad the power of 


and beauty to whom she chose, 
Old Bags. John Scott, lord Eldon 
hatan wie 


| so ealled becanse he carried 


him in sundry bags eae cases pending hia 
judgment (1751-1838), 


Old Bona Fide (2 sy/.), Louis XIV. 
(1634, 1643-1715). 

Old Curiosity Shop ( i%) 
by C. Dickens (1840). An o 
having run through his fortune, o 
a curiosity shop in order to earn a living 
and brought up a granddaughter, nam 
Nell [Trent], 14 years of age. The child 
was the darling of the old man, but 
deluding himself with the hope of making 
a fortune by gaming, he lost everything, 
and went forth, with the child, a beggar, 
Their wanderings and adventures are 
recounted till they reach a quiet country 
village, where the old cleryyman gives 
them « cottage to live in. Here Nell soon 
dies, and the grandfather is found dead 
upon her ve. The main character 
next to Nell is that of a lad named Kit 
[Nubbles], employed in the cpeene 5 § 
shop, who adured Nell as ‘an ange 
This bov gets in the service of Mr. Gi Gay 
land, o genial, benevolent, well-to-do 
man, im the suburbs of London; but 
Quilp hates the lad, and induces Irasa, a 
solicitor of Lewis “Marks, to oon! a £5 
lank-note in the boys aod then 
accuse him of theft. Kit ia ae and 
condemned to transportation, but the 
villainy being exposed by a girl-of-all- 


a tale 


} work nicknamed “‘The Marchioness,” 


Kit is liberated and restored to his place, 
and Quilp drowns himeelf. 

Old Cutty Soames (1 ayl.), the 
fairy of the mine. 


Old Fox (Tie), marshal Soult; 
ealled from his strategie abilities ‘und 
never-failing resources (1769-1851), 

Old Gib., Gibraltar Rock. 


Oli Glory, sir Francis Burdett ; so 








OLD NOLL. 


*.* The proto otype of ** Old Mortality” 
was Robert Patterson. 


Old Woh, Oliver Cromwell (1599- 
1658 


Old Noll's Fiddler, sic Rozer Lestrange 
who played the basa-viol at the musi 
parties held at John Hingston's house, 
where Oliver Cromwell was a constant 
guest. 

Old Rowley, Charles IT. ; so called 


from his favourite race-horse (1630, | ) 0 as the distance of eight miles, 


1660-1685). 
*,* A portion of Newmarket race- 
course is still called *“‘ Rowley mile." 
Old Stone, Henry Stone, statuary 
and painter (died 1653). 


Old Tom, cordial gin. So called 
from Tom Chamberlain (one of the firm 
of Messrs. Hodges’ gin distillery), who 
first concucted it. 

Oldboy (Cvlonc!), o manly retired 
officer, fond of his glass, and not averse 
to a little spice of the Lothario spirit. 

Lady Mary Oldboy, daughter of lord 
Jeazamy and wife of the colonel. A 
sickly nonentity, ‘ever complaining, ever 
having something the matter with her 
head, back, or legs." Afraid of the 
slightest breath of wind, ty by a loud 
voice, and incapable of the least ex- 
ertion. 

Diana Oldboy, daughter of the colonel, 
She marries Iarman. 

Jeseonuy, son of the colonel and lady 
Mary. An insufferable prig.—Hicker- 
stall, Livne! and Clurissa. 

Oldbuck (Junathun), the antiquary, 
devoted to the study and accumulation 
of old coins and medals, ete. He is 
sarcastic, irritable, and a woman-hater ; 
but kind-hearted, faithful to his friends, 
and a humorist. —Sir W. Scott, Zhe 
Antiquary (time George II1.). 

Ao exrellent temper, with o aight degree of mbackd 


hw: ber ii, wail, ae oir regi tue Gane polgmaast | 
thee L 


thet Wey Sere oe little cron kel peculiarities of am 
ol becheber: a Sumo of | 
forciide by a0 otal gallo uf ea pteenlon, 

wore the quale bi which tbe creature ull may Pda 
wt reenblel my leamuent aad excellent od 
=—Kir W. Beret. 

The merit of The Antiquery ow 4 novel rests on the 
ittndindde deiliealion of hibeck, tint mde! of black. 
hitter ond Kone-comp anthyrles, who oddities amd 
Govermthe are fieh aial ary oa my of Lhe 
pert Chat Juin of the Girne! might have held in bie 
nonast lic offi —Chamier, Eagllak Literofers, iL De, 


Oldcastle (Sir Jvin), o drama by 
Anthony Munday (1600). This play 
appeared with the name cf Shakespeare 
on the tithe-pagre. 


Oldworth of Oldwrrth Oaks, o 





708 


tL rower more | 
thea 


OLINDO. 


wealthy squire, liberally educated, very 
hospitable, benevolent, humorons, and 
whimsical. He brings up Maria “the 
maid of the Oaks" as his ward, but she 
ishis daughter and heiress.—J. Burgoyne, 
The Mail of the Uaks (1779). 


Olifant, the horn of Roland or 
Orlando. This horn and the sword 
‘* Durinda’na ™ were buried with the 
bero. Turpin tells ua in his Chronicle 
that Charlemagne heard the blare of thia 


Olifant (Basil), a kinsman of lady 
Margaret Bellenden, of the Tower of 
Tillietu*lem.—Sir W. Seott, Old Mour- 
tality (\.me, Charles IT.). 


Olifaunt (Lord Nigel), of Glenvar- 
loch. On going to court to present 
a petition to James J., he aroused the 
dislike of the duke of HBucki Mil. 
Lord Dalyarno gave him the cut direct, 
and Nigel struck him, but was obliged to 
seek refuge in Aleatia. After various 
adventures, he married Margaret Ramaay 
the watchmaker's daughter, and obtained 
the title-deeds of his estates.—Sir W. 
er The Jurtunes of Nijel (time, James 


Olimpia, the wife of Bireno, uncom. 
promising in love, and relentless in hate. 
—Ariosto, Orlandu Furioso (1516), 


Olta'pia, a proud Roman lady of high 
rank. When Rome was sacked by Bour- 
bon, she flew for refuge to the high altar 
of St. Peter's, where she clung toa golden 
cross. On the advance of certain soldiers 
in the army of Bourbon to seize her, she 
cast the huge cross from its stand, and as 
it fell it crushed to death the foremost 
Boldier, Others then attempted to seize 
her, when Arnold dispersed them and 
rescued the lady; but the proud beauty 


| would not allow the foe of ber country te 


touch her, and flung herself from the hi 
altar on the pavement. Apparently Li 
leas, she was borne off; but whether she 
recuvered or not we are not informed, as 
the drama was never finished.—Byron, 
The Deformed Transformed (1821). 


Olindo, the lover of Sophronia. Ala- 
dine king of Jerusalem, at the advice 
of his magicians, stole an par aoe the 
Virgin, aod set it up as o palladium in 
the chief mosque. During the night it was 
carried off, aud the king, unable to dis- 
eover the thief, ordered all hia Christian 
subjects to be put to death. To prevent 








OLIVIA. 706 





inst than sinning."—Shicl, Fvadne or 
The Statue (1320). 
Olivia, “the rose of Aragon," was the 


daughter of Ruphi'no, a peasant, and | 
The | 


bride of prince Alonzo of Aragon, 
king refused to recognize the marringe, 
and, sending his son to the army, com- 

Ned the cortez to pass an act of divorce. 

his brought to a head a general revolt. 
The king was dethroned, and Almagro 
made regent. Almagro tried to make 
Olivia marry him; ordered ber father to 
the rack, and her brother to death. Mean- 
while the prince returned at the head of 
hisarmy, made himself masterof the city, 
pot down the revolt, and had his mar- 
riage dnly recognized. Almagro took 
poison and died.—S. Knowles, Zhe Rove 
of Aragon (Ie42). 

Olivia [Primmose], the elder daugh- 
ter of the vicar of Wakefield. She was 
a sort of Hebéiin beauty, open, eprightly, 
and commanding. Olivia Primrose 
“wished for many lovers,” and eloped 
with squire Thornhill. 
in search of her, and, on his return home- 
ward, stopped at a roadside inn, called 


the Harrow, and there found her turned | 


out of the house by the landlady. Itwas 
ultimately discuvered that she was legally 
marned to the aquire.—Goldsmuth, 


of Wakefield (1765). 


Olivia de Zuniga, daughter of don | 


Cesar. She fixed her heart on having 


Julio de Melessina for ber husband, and | 
eo behaved to all other suitors as to drive | 


them away. Thus to don (Garcia, she 
retended to be a termagant; to don 
‘incentio, who was music mad, she pro- 
fessed to love a Jew's-harp above every 
other instrument. At lastJulio appeared, 
and ber “‘ bold stroke" obtained aa its 
reward “the husband of her choice."— 
Mrs. Cowley, A Buld Stroke for a Hus- 
bund (1782). 
Olla, bard of Cairhar 
acted as bheralds.—(asian. 


Ollapod (Curne!), 
Head, An cecentric country apothecary, 
“a jumble of physic and shooting.” Pr. 
Ollapod is verv fond of “ wit,” and when 
he has said what he thinks a smart thing, 
he calle attention to it, with “He! he! 
he!" and some such expression as, '* Do 
you take, goud sir? do you take?" hut 
When anther eays a smart thing, he 
titters, and crivs, “That's well! tliat's 
very well! Thank you, good sir, I owe 
you one!" Ile is a regular rattle; de- 


These bards 





Hier father went | 


‘oar | 


at the Galen's | 











OMAWHAWS. 
| tails all the scandal of the : boasts 
of his achievements or m ventures 


ia very m » and wholly with 
principle.—G. Colman, Zhe Poor Gentle- 
mn (1802). 

*,* This character is evidently a 
of Dibdin’s “doctor Pother” in eA 
Farmer's Wife (1780). 

Ollomand, san enchanter, who pe- 
evaded Ahu’bal, the rebellious brother of 
Mismar sultan of Delhi, to try by bribery 
to corrupt the troops of the s By 
an unlimited supply of gold, he soon 
made himeelf master of the southern 
vinees, and Misnar marched to give hi 
battle. Ollomand, with 5000 men, went 
jn advance and concealed his company in 
a forest ; but Misnar, apprized th by 
Bpies, set fire to the forest, and Ollo- 
mand was shot by the discrete of his 
own cannons, fired spontaneously by the 
flames: ‘‘ For enchantment has no power 
except over those who are first deceived 
by the enchanter.”—Sir C. Morell [J. 
Ridley}, Tules of the Genii (“The 
chanter’s Tale,” vi., 1751). 


Olof (Sir), a bridegroom who rode 
late to collect guests to his wedding. On 
his ride, the daughter of the ett king 
met him, and invited him to danes a 
measure, but sir Olof declined. She then 
offered him a pair of gold spurs, a silk 
doublet, and a heap of gold, if he would 
dance with her; and when he refused to 
do so, she struck him “with an elf- 
stroke.” On the morrow, when all the 
bridal party was assembled, sir Olof was 
le dead in a wood.—A Danish Leyend 
(Herder). 


“ahr ts countess of Holland and 
wife of Bire’no. Being deserted by 
liireno, she was bound naked toa rock by 
pirates, but was delivered by Orlando, 
who took her to Ireland, where she mare 
ried king Oberto (bks. iv., v.).—Ariosto, 


| Urlando Furioso (1516). 


Olym'pia, sister to the uke of 
Muscovia.—Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe 
Loyal Subject (1618). 

Olympus, of Greece, was on the 
contines of Macedonia and Thesealy. 
Here the court of Jupiter was held. 

Olympus, in the dominions of Prester 
John, was ‘three days’ journey from 
paradise.” This Olympus is a corrept 
furm of Alumbo, the same as Columbo, 
in Ceylon. 


Omawhaws lOve sa fone 6 Om’. 
s 





———— a ae 


ORACLE OF THE SIEVE, ETC. 707 
ee SEE = — 


the knotty point “whether Panurge (2 
yl.) should marry or not." The question 
had been put tosiby! and pe 


eould answer it. The oracle was ultimately 
found in Lantern-land. 

This, of course, ia a satire on the 
celibacy of the clergy and the withhold- 
ing of the cup from the laity. Shall the 


clergy marry or not /—that was the moot — 


point; and the “ Bottle of Tent Wine,” 
or the clergy, who kept the bottle to them- 
selves, alone could solve it. The oracle 
and priestess of the bottle were both called 
Bachue (Hebrew for “‘ bottle").—Rabelais, 
Pantag'rual, iv., v. (1545). 


Oracle of the Sieve and Shears 


( Zhe), a method of divination known to | 


the Greeks. The modus operwndi in the 


Middle Ayes was as follows:—The points — 


of a pair of shears were stuck in the rim 
of a sieve, and two persons supported the 
elears with their finger-ti A verse of 
the Kible was then read aloud, and while 
the names of persons suspected were called 
over, the sieve was supposed to turn when 
the right name was sugyested, (See Key 
AND Binue, p. 509.) 
Searching for things lost with « seve aod cher — Ben 
donsun, Alchemea, | | (110). 
Oracle of Truth, the magnet. 
And by the orncle of truth belirw, 
The wondnai magnet, guide the wapword prow, 
Falouner, The SMpwrent, Ui 9 (17 Se). 
Orange (Prince of), o title given to 
the heir-apparent of the king of Holland. 
“Orange” ia a petty principality in the 
territory of Avignon, in the possession of 


the Nassau family. 


Orania, the lady-love of Am'adis of 


Gaul.—Lobeira, Amadis of Gaul (four- | 


teenth century). 


Orator Henley, the Rev. John 
Henley, who for about thirty years de- 
livered lectures on theological, political, 
and literary subjects (1692-1756), 

*.” Hogarth has introduced him into 
eeveral of hia pictures ; and Pope says of 
him: 

Imbround with native bronae, I ! y standa, 

Tunis reel «ak oy Selene bie eae 

Hew fucnt feiertice trickles frum his tongne! 

How sweet the perk da, oclther add nor mang! .. . 

(ih, great reaturer of the gmel old stage, 

Pree. bet af core gre gany of Ly age! 

Oh, worthy thi of Egypt's wise abeales; 

A decent priest where monkeys were the goede | 

Fhe Dunciad, (1, 1p, ete. (1742). 

Orator Hunt, the creat demagocue 
fm the time of the Wellington and Peel 
awiministration. Henry Hunt, M.P., used 
to wear o grey hat, and these hats were 


monk and | 
fowl, philosopher and witch, but none — 





OREADES. 


for the time a of democratic — 
ciples, and called “radical hats" (1773- 
1835). 

Orbaneja, the painter of Dbe'da, who 
painted so preposterously that he inscribed 
oe his objects what he meant them 

OF, 
wat he was Suligel to inactive nie "This rT pon 
—Cervantes, Dou Quleete, IL |. 3 (1815). 

Orbilius, the schoolmaster who tanght 

Horace. The poet calls him “the logger” 


layosus).—Fp,, ii. 71. 
om The Orbiilan Stick is a birch rod 
or cane. 


Ordeal (A Fiery), a sharp trial or 
test. Im England there were anciently 
two ordeals—one of water and the other 
of fire. The water ordeal was for tho 
lnity, and the fire ordeal for the nobility, 
If a noble was accused of a crime, he or 
his deputy was tried by ordeal thus: He 
had either to hold in his hand a piece of 
red-hot iron, or had to walk blindfold and 
barefoot over nine red-hot ploughshares 
laid lengthwise at unequal distances, If 
he passed the ordeal unhurt, he was de- 
elared innocent; if not, he was accounted 
guilty. This method of _panishment arose 
from the nution that “God would defend 
the right,” even by miracle, if needs be. 


Ordigale, the otter, in the beast-epic 
of Reynard the Fox, i. (1498). 


Ordovi'ces (4 sy/.), people of Ordo- 
vicia, that is, Flintshire, Denbighshire, 
Merionethshire, Montgomeryshire, Car- 
narvonshire, and Anglesey. (In Latin 
the ( is short: Ordoricés.) 

The Ondovices now which North Wales people be. 

Drayton, Mofyalbiem, xvi, (JU). 

Or’dovies (3 sy/.), the inhabitanta of 
North Wales, (In Latin North Wales is 
called Urduwic’ia.) 
(tokehtiog the’ wath thee poops ea 
ee» Withetoord, 

Or’ead (3 syl.), a mountain-nym 
Tennyson calls © Maud™ an priate Re 
cause her hall and garden were on o hill, 


lame my Oreld coming down. 


Oreéd. Echo is eo called. 
Ore’ades (4 m/l.) or O’reads (8 syi.), 


mountain-nymphs, 
Ve Cambrian [elsh) shepherds then, whom these ou 
Poontel ses pubes. 
Aud ye ow felow-nymphe, yo light Oreiides 
Drayton, Pelyolbier. ‘b. (613, 





ORIANDE. 


man went between ‘‘the chief and the 
wall,” and discharged an arrow, which, 
glancing aside, pierced the lady's heart 
and killed her. The ballad is the lamen- 
tation of the spouse on the death of his 
bride (1830). 


O’riande (3 sy/.), a fay who lived 
at Rosefleur, and brought up Mauyis 
d’Aygremont. When her protéjé grew 
up, she loved him, ‘‘d’un si grand amour, 
welle doute fort qu'il ne se departe 
‘avecques elle."—oumance de Buwis 
DP Ayyremont et de Vivian sun Frére, 


O’riel, a fairy, whose empire lay along 
the banks of the Thames, when king 
Oberon held his court in Kensington 
Gardens.—Tickell, Acnsington Gardens 
(1686-1740). 


Oriflamme, the banner of St 
Denis. When the counts of Vexin be- 
came possessed of the abbey, the banner 
passed into their hands, and when, in 
- 1082, Philippe I. united Vexin to the 
crown, the oriflamme or sacred banner 
belonged to the king. In 1119 it was 
first used as a national banner. It con- 
sists of a crimson silk flag, mounted on a 
gilt staf (an ylacre tout dure vu est atachi€ 
une rondre cermecille), The loose end is 
cut into three wavy vandykes, to represent 
tongues of tlame, and a silk tassel 1s hung 
at each cleft. In war, the display of this 
standard indicates that no quarter will be 
given. The English standard of no 
quarter was the ‘ burning dragon,” 

Raoul de Presle says it was used in the 
time of Charlemagne, being the gift of 
the patriarch of Jerusalem. We are told 
that all intidels were blinded who looked 
on it. Froiesart says it was displayed 
at the battle of Rosbeeq, in the reign of 
Charles VI., and ‘* no sooner was it un- 
furled, thun the fog cleared away, and 
the sun shene on the French alone.” 


Thave nef reared the Oriflamme of death. 
2 ne it hebusyee 
Tu spare the faben foe. 
Southey, Joan of .tre, vill. 621, ete. (1837), 
Origilla, the lady-love of Gryphon 
brother of Aquilant ; but the faithless fair 
one took up with Martano, a most im- 
pudent boaster and a coward. Being at 
Damascus during a tournament in which 
Gryphon was the victor, Martano stole 
the armour of Grvphon, arrayed himself 
in it, took the prizes, and then aecamped 
with the lady. Aquilant happened to see 
them, beund them, and took them back 
to Damascus, where Martano was hanged, 
and the lady ke:t in bondage for the 


709 





ORION. 


judgment of Lacina.—<Ariosto, Orlande 
Furwso (1516). 


Orillo, a magician and robber, whu 
lived at the mouth of the Nile. He was 
the son of an imp and fairy. When any 
one of his limbs was lopped off, he had the 
power of restoring it; and when his head 
was cut off, he could take it up and 
replace it. When Astolpho encountered 
this magician, he was informed that his 
life lay in one particular hair; so instead 
of seeking to maim his adversary, As- 
tolpho cut off the magic hair, and the 
magician fell lifeless at his feet.—Ariosto, 
Oriaundo Furioso (1516). 


Orinda ‘the incomparable,” Mrs. 
Katherine Philipps, who lived in the 
reizm of Charles 1]. and died of small- 
pox. 
*,* Her praises were sung by Cowley, 
Dryden, and others. 


We allowed you beauty, and we did whink ... 
Ah, cruel eex will you depo-e us two in wit? 
Orinda dves in that too reign. 
Cowley, On Orinda's Poems (1607. 


O’riole (3 sy/.). The‘ Baltimore bird” 
is often so called in America; but the 
orwle is of the thrush family, and the 
Baltimore bird is a starling. Its nest is 
a pendulous cylindrical pouch, some six 
inches long, usually suspended from two 
twigs at the extremity of a branch, and 
therefore liable to swing backwards and 
forwards by the force of the wind. Hence 
Longfellow compares a child's swing to 
an orivle’s nest. 


. .. like an oriole’s nest, 
From which the laughing birds have taken wing ; 
By thee abandured hangs thy vacant swing. 
Loagfellow, To a Child 


Ori’on, a giant of great beauty, and 
a famous hunter, who cleared the island 
of Chios of wild beasts. While in the 
island, Orion fell in love with Merdpe, 
daughter of king (Enop’ion ; but one day, 
in a drunken fit, having offered her 
violence, the king put out the giant's eyes 
and drove him from the island. Orion 
wes told if he would travel eastwards, 
and expose his sockets to the rising sun, 
be would recover his sight. Guided by 
the sound of a Cyclops’ hammer, he 
reached Lemnos, where Vulcan gave him 
a uide to the abode of the sua. In due 
time, his sight returned to him, and at 
death he was made a constellation, The 
tion’s skin was an emblem of the wild 
beasts which he slew in Chios, and the 
club was the instrument he employed for 
the purpose. 











ORLANDO INNAMORATO. 711 


ORMUS. 





ratber his wits were taken from him 
for three months by way of punishment, 
and deposited in the moon. Astolpho 


went to the moon in Elijah's chariot, : 


and St. John gave him ‘‘the lost wits 
in an urn. On reaching France, Astol- 
pho bound the madman, then, holdin 
the um to his nose, the wits return 


again. After this, the siege was con- 
tinued, and the Christians were wholly 
successful, (See ORLANDO INNAMORATO.) 
—<Ariosto, Orlundo Furiso (1516). 

*,* This romance in verse extends to 
forty-six cantos. Hoole, inhistranslation, 
has compressed the forty-six cantos into 
twenty-four books; but Rose has retained 
the original number. The adventures of 
Orland », under the French form ‘* Roland,” 
are related by Turpin in his Chronicle, 
and by Théroulde in his Chunson de 
Roland. 


*,* The true hero of Ariosto's romance 
is Kogéro, and not Orlando. It is with 
Rogero’s victory over Rodomont that the 
poem ends. The concluding lines are: 

Then at full stretch he { Rogero) raised bis arm above 

The furious Rodumunt. and the weapuo drove 
Thrice in his gaping thrmat—eu ends the strife, 
And leaves secure Rogeru's fame and life. 

Orlando Innamora'to, or Orlando 
in lore, in three books, by count Bojardo 
of Scandiano, in Italy (1495). Bojardo 
supposes Charlemagne to be warring 
against the Saracens in France, under the 
walls of Paris. 
to be besieyed by two intidel hosts—one 
under Agramante emperor of Africa, and 
the cther under (:radasso king of Serica’na. 
His hero is Orlando, whom he sup 
(though married at the time to Aldabella) 
to bein love with Angelica, a fascinating 
coquette from Cathay, whom Orlando 

brouvht to France. (See OnLaNvo 
FURIO80.) 


*,* Kerni of Tuscany, in 1538, published | 
@ burlesque in verse on the same subject. | 


Orleans, a most passionate innamo- 
rato, in love with Agripy’na.—Thomas 
Dekker, Old Furtunatus (1600). 


eae talks 7, are Biron and Romeo; ” be 4s almodt as 
Lapirrbesplar Lamb. . 


(** Biron,” ia Shakes ‘s Love's 
Labour's Lost ; ‘‘Romeo,” in his Romeo 
and Juliet.) 


Orleuns (Gaston duke of), brother of 
Louis XIII. 
aasasuinate Richelieu and dethrone the 
king. If the plot had been successful, 
Gaston was to have been made regent; 


He represents the city | 


He heads a conspiracy to | 





but the conspiracy was disco and 
thie duke was theaited in Sis ambldoas. 
plans.—Lord Lytton, Richelicu (1839). 


Orieans (Louis duc da’), to whom the 
princess Joan (daughter of Louis XI.) is 
affianced.—Sir W. Scott, Quentin Dur- 


| ward (time, Edward IV.). 
to their nidus, and the hero was himself | 


Orlick (Dolge), usually called “ Old 
Orlick,” though not above five and ria 
journeyman to Joe Gargery, blacksmith. 
Obstinate, morose, broad-shouldered, 
loose-limbed, swarthy, of great strength, 
never in a hurry, and always slouching. 
Being jealous of Pip, he allured him to a 
cave in the bound him to a 
ladder, and was about to shoot him, when, 


| being alarmed by approaching steps, he 


fled. Subsequently, he broke into Mr. 
Pumblechook's house, was arrested, and 
confined in the county jail. This surly. 
ill-conditioned brute was in love with 
Biddy, but Biddy married Joe Gargery. 
—C. Dickens, Great Expectations (1860). 


Orloff Diamond (7he), the third 


| largest cut diamond in the world, set in 
| the top of the Russian sceptre. The weight 


of this magnificent diamond is 194 ca 

and its size is that of a pigeon’s egg. I 
was once one of the eyes of the idel Sher- 
ingham, in the temple of Brahma; came 
into the hands of the shah Nadir; was 
stolen by a French grenadier and sold to 
an English sea-captain for £2000; the 
captain sold it to a Jew for £12,000; it 
next passed into the hands of Shafras; 
and in 1775, Catherine II. of Russia gave 
for it £90,000. (See Diamonns.) 


Or’mandine (3 syl.), the necro- 
mancer who threw St. David into an 
enchanted sleep for seven years, from 
which he was reclaimed by St. George.— 
R. Johnson, Zhe Seven ons of 
Christendom, i. 9 (1617). 


Orme (Victor), a poor gentleman in 
love with Elsie.—Wybert Reeve, Parted. 


Ormond (The duke of), a privy 
councillor of Charles I1.—Sir W. 
Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Ormston (Jock), a sheriff's officer at 
Antiquary 


| Fairport.—Sir W. Scott, The 


(time, George IIT.). 


Ormus ( Wealth of), diamonds. The 
island Ormus, in the Persian Gulf, is a 
mart for these precious stones. 

High ons throne sf sopal state, whieh fer 
MBton, Paradies Lest, 1. 1 (168%). 








ORPHEUS OF HIGHWAYMEN. 713 


es 


libretto of Alceste (1767). King pro- 
duced an English version of Orp/iwus and 
Eur ydice. 
*,* The tale is introduced by lope in 
his St. Cocilia's Ode. 
Of Orphers now no more let poets tell, 
To bright Cecilia greater power is given | 
Hls numbers raised a shade from hell, 
Hers Uft the soul to heaven, 
Pope, St. Cecilia's Fiay (17001 
Orpheus of Highwaymen, John 
Gay, author of The Begyur's Opera (1G838- 
1732). 
Orpheus of the Green Isle 
(The), Furlough O'Carolan, poet and 
musician (1670-1738). 


Or’raca (Quecn), wife of Affonso IT. 
The legend says that five friars of Mo- 
roeco went to her, and said, * Three things 
we prophesy to you: (1) we five shall 
all suffer martyrdom ; (2) our bodics will 
be brought to Coimbra; and (ii) which- 
ever sees our relics first, you or the king, 
will die the same day.” When their 
bodies were brought to Coimbra, the king 
told queen Orraca she must join the pro- 
cession with him. She pleaded illness, but 
Affonso replied the relics would cure hier ; 
eo they started ontheir journey. As Lliey 
were going, the queen told the king to 
speed on before, as she could nol travel 
go fast ; so he speeded on with his retinue, 
and started a boar on the road.‘ Fullow 
him!" cried the king, and they went 
after the buarand killed it. In the mean 
time, the queen reached the procession, 
fully expecting her husband had joined 
it long ayo; but, lo! she beheld him riding 
up with ypreat speed. That niht the 
king was aroused at midnight with Lhe 
intellizence that the queen was dead.— 
Southey, Queen Orraca (1838); Francisco 
Manoel da Esperanga, Historia Sercfiva 
(eighteenth century). 

Orrock (/eiagic), a sheriff's officer at 
Fairport.—Sir W. Scott, The Antipuary 
(time, George IIT.). 





Orsin, one of the leaders of the rabble 
rout that attacked Hludibras at the lear- 
baiting.—S. Butler, Anudibras (103). 

** The prototype of this rabble leader 
was Joshua Gosling, who kept the l'aria 
Bear-Garden, in Southwark. 


Orsi’/ni (J/uffir), a young Italian 
nobleman, whose life was saved by 
Genna’ro at the battle of Rim/‘ini, Orsini 
became the fast friend of Gennaro, but 
beth were poisoned by the princess Ne'- 
reni at a banquet.—Donizetti, Lucresia 


di Bory a (opera, 1834). 


"| effeminate employments. 


| became a yreat favourite, 
married Sebastian (Viola's brother), and 








ORTHODOXY. 








Orsi'no, duke of Illyria, who sought 
the love of Olivia a nich countess; but 
Olivia gave no encouragement to his 
suit, and the duke moped and pined, 
leaving manly sports for music and othor 
Viola entered 
re, and soon 

When Olivia 


the duke's service as a 


the sex of Viola became known, the duke 
married her and made her duchess of 
Illyria. — Shakespeare, Twelfth Night 
(1614). 


Orson, twin-brother of Valentine, 
and son of Bellisant. The twin-brothers 
were born in a wood near Orleans, and 
Orson waa carried off by a bear, which 
euckled him with its cuba, When he 
grew up, he became the terror of France, 
ani was called “‘ The Wild Man of the 
Forest.” Ultimately, he was reclaimed 
by hig brother Valentine, overthrew the 
Green Koight, and marred Fezon dauch- 
ter of the duke of Savary, in Aquitaine. 
luleatine and Orson (tifteenth century). 


Orson and Ellen. Young Orson 
was a comely young farmer from Taune 
ton, stout as an wak, and very fond of 
the lasses, but he hated matrimony, and 
used to say, ** the man who can buy milk 
isa foolto keep a cow.” While still a 
lal, Oraon made love to Ellen, a rustic 
maiden ; but, in the ticklenesa of yonth, 
forsook ber for a richer lass, and Ellen 
left the village, wandered far away, and 
hecame walting-maid to old Iivniface 
the innkerper, One day, Orson hap- 
pened to stop at this very inn, and bllen 
Waited on him. Five vears had passed 
since Hey had seen each other, and at 
first neither knew the other. When, how- 
ever, the facts were known, Oraon made 
Ellen his wife, and their marriage feast 
was given by Doniface bimself.—l'eter 
Pindar [Dr, Wulecot], Grsun and ilen 
(180). 


Ortel'lius (Abraham), a Dutch geo- 
grapher, who published, in 1470, his 
Theoalram Ure Terre or Universal 
Geujruply (1527 -140R), 

I moore coal tell to prove che place oor own, 


Phas ly hui spacious tape are bey Uriel acre 
Liraylon, Polpalidom, vi (/iiap 
Orthodoxy. When lord Sandwich 
said, ‘‘he did not know the difference 
between orthodoxy and heterodoxy,” 
Warburton bishop of Gloucester replied 
“Orthodoxy, my lord, is my doxy, a 


heterudoxy is another man's doxy.' 








OSIRIS. 


to the top of her speed, while all the 
fiends chased after him. The river Doon 
was near, and Tam just reached the 
middle of the bridge when one of the 
witches, whom he called Cutty Sark, 
touched bim ; but it was too late—he had 
the middle of the stream, and was 
out of the power of the crew. Not so 
his mare's tail—that bad not yet ed 
the magic line, and Cutty Sark, clinging 
thereto, drazyed it off with an infern 
wrench.—R. Burns, Zam O'Shanter. 


Osi'ris, judge of the dead, brother 
and husband of Isis. Osiris is identical 
with Adonis and Thammaz. All three 
represent the sun, six months above 
the equator, and six months below it. 
Adonis passed six months with Aphro- 
dité in heaven, and six months with 
Persephiné in hell. So Osiris in heaven 
was the beloved of Isia, but in the land 
of darkness was embraced by Nepthys. 





Osiris, the sun ; Isis, the moon. 
They [the pricsts| wore rich mitres shaped like the moon, 
To show that [ex doth the moun portend, 
Like as Osiris signifies the sun. 

Spenser, Fuéry Queen, ¥. 7 (1506). 

Osman, sultan of the East, the great 
conqueror of the Christians, a man of 
most magnanimous mind and of noble 
generosity. He loved Zara, a young 
Christian captive, and was by her beloved 
with equal ardour and sincerity. Zara 
was the daughter of Lusignan d'Outremer, 
a Christian king of Jerusalem; she was 
taken prisoner by Osman’s father, with her 
elder brother Nerestan, then four years 
old. After twenty years’ captivity, Neres- 
tan was sent to France for ransom, and 
on his return presented himself before 
the sultan, who fancied he perceived a 
sort of intimacy between the young man 
and Zara, which excited his suspicion 
and jealousy. A letter, begging that 
Zara would meet him in a “° secret 
passage” of the seraglio, fell into the 
kultan’s bands, and confirmed his sus- 
picions. Zara went to the rendezvous, 
where Osman met her and stabbed her to 
the heart. Nerestan was soon brought 
before him, and told him he had mur- 
dered his sister, and all he wanted of her 
wus to tell her of the death of her father, 
and to bring her his dying benediction. 
Stung with remorse, Osman liberated all 
his Christian captives, and then stabbed 
bimeelf.—Aaron Hill, Zara (1735). 

*.* This tragedy is an Enylish adapta- 
tion of Voltaire’s Zaire (1733). 


Osmand, a necromancer who, by 


715 


OSSEO. 


enchantment, raised up an army to resist 
the Christians. Six of the champions 
were enchanted by Osmand, but St. 
nefrag i restored them. Osmand tore off 
his hair in which lay his spirit of 
enchantment, bit his tongue in two, em- 
bowelled himself, cut off his arms, and 





_ died.—R. Johnson, Scren Champions 


Christendom, i. 19 (1617). 


Osmond, an old Varangian guard.— 
Sir W. Scott, Count R of Paris 
(time, Rufus). 


Osmyn, alias ALPitcsev, son of 
Anselmo king of Valentia, and husband 
of Alme’ria daughter of Manuel king of 
Grana’da. Supposed to have been lost at 


| sea, but in reality cast on the African 


coast, and tended by queen Zara, who 
falls in love with him. Both are taken 
captive by Manuel, and brought to 
Granada. Here Manuel fails in love 


| with Zara, but Zara retains her passionate 


love for Alphonso. Alphonso makes his 
escape, returns at the head of an army to 
Granada, finds both the king and 
dead, but Almeria being still alive be- 
comes his acknowledged bride. —W. 
Congreve, The Mourning Bride ry: 

*,* ‘‘Osman ” was one of John Keme 
ble’s characters, Mrs. Siddons taking the 
role of ‘‘ Zara.” 


Osnaburghs, the cloths so called; 
a corruption of Osnabriick, in Hadover, 
anes these coarse linens yere first pro- 

uced. 


Osprey. When fish see the osprey 
the legend says, they are so fascina 
that they ‘‘ swoon,” and, turning on their 
backs, yield themselves an easy prey to 
the bird. Rattlesnakes exercise the same 
fascination over birds. 

But ee caenlng * hair belites up. a tho’ thelr death 
They ai his leamise lie, to stuff his gluttonous maw. 
Drayton, Polyolbion, xxv. (1682), 

Osrick, a court fop, contemptible fos 
his affectation and finica] dandvism. He 
is made umpire by king Claudius, when 
Laertés and Hamiet ‘‘ play" with rapiers 
in ‘friendly ’ combat. —Shakespeare, 
Hanict (1596). 


Osse’o, son of the Evening Star, whose 
wife was O’weenee. In the Northland 
there were once ten sisters of surpassing 


-beauty; nine married beautiful youn 


husbands, but the youngest, nam 

Oweenee, fixed her affections on Osseo, 
who was ‘‘old, poor, and »” bat 
‘most beautiful within.” being 











OTRANTO. 717 
Ernest of Otranto, page of the prince 
of Otranto.—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert 


of Paris (time, Rufus). 
Otranto (The Castle of), a romance by 
Horace Walpole (1769). 


OO RRor (Sir Lucius), a fortune- 
hunting Irishman, ready to fight every 
one, on any matter, at any time.— 
Sheridan, Zhe Rivals (1775). 

“Bir Lucius O'Trigger,” ‘‘Callaghan O’Brallaghan,” 
rsd or O'Flaherty,” ‘’ Teague,” and ** Dennt< Brulgrod- 
dery” were portrayed by Jack Johnstone [1750-1828) in 
a tu.—The New Monthly Mayusine 

*,* “Callaghan O'Krallaghan,” in Love 
@-la-mode (Macklin) ; “major O'Flaherty,” 
in The West Indian (Cumberland) ; 
‘‘ Teague,” in Zhe Committee (Hon. sir 
R. Howard); ‘Dennis Brulgruddery,” 
in John Bull (Colman). 


Otta’vio (Don), the lover of donna 
Anna, whom he was about to make his 
wife, when don Giovanni seduced her 
and killed her father (the commandant 
of the city) in a duel.—Mozart, Jon 
Giovanni (opera, 1787). 


Otto, duke of Normandy, the victim 
of Rollo called ‘(The Bloody Brother.” 
—Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe Bloody 
Brother (1639), 


Ot’'uel (vr), a haughty and pre- 
sumptuous Saracen, miraculously con- 
verted. He was a nephew of Ferragus 
or Ferracute, and married a dauyhter of 
Charlemagne. 


Ouida, an infantine corruption of 
Louisa, The full name is Louise de la 
Ramee, authoress of Under Two Flags 
(1867), and many other novels. 


Ouran’abad, a monster represented 
as a fierce thying hydra. It belonys to 
the same class as (1) the Audsie, whose 
ordinary food was serpents and drayons ; 
(2) the SvAam, which had the head of a 
horse, four eyes, and the body of a tiery 
drazon; (3) the Sy/, a basilisk, with 
human face, but so terrible that no eye 
could look on it and live; (4) the /jder. 
—Hichardson’s Dictionary (** Persian and 
Arabic"). 

In his hand, which thunder had blasted, he [ £dM%s) 
ewaye! ths [ron areptre that causes Che monster ourana- 
bad. the alrits, and sil the powersof the abyss to tremble, 
—W. Beckford, Vuathek (1,88). 

Outalissi, eayle of the Indian tribe 
of OUney'da, the death-enemies of the 
Hurons. When the Hurons attacked the 
fort, under the command of Waldeyrave 
(2 s/.), @ genern] massacre was made, in 
which Waldeyrave and his wife were 
slain. Lut Mrs. Waldegrave, before she 





OVERREACH. 


died, committed her boy Henry to the 
charyve of Outalissi, and told him to place 
the child in the hands of Albert of Wy'- 
oming, her friend. This Outalissi did, 
After a lapse of fifteen vears, one Brandt, 
at the head of a mixed army of British 
and Indiana, attacked Onevda, and a 
general nigssacre was made; but Outa- 
lissi, wounded, escaped to Wyominy, 
just in time to give warning of the 
approach of Brandt. Scarcely was this 
done, when Brandt arrived. Albert and 
his daughter Gertrude were loth shot, 
and the whole settlement was extirpated, 
—Campbell, Gertrude of Wyoming (1809). 





Outis (Greck for “nobody "™), ao 
name assomed by (hdysseus ( U/ysses) in 
the cave of Polypheme (3 sy/.). When 
the monster reared with pain from the 
loss of his eve, his brother giants de- 
manded who wos hurting him. “ Ont" 
(Nubody), thundered! out Polypheme, and 
his companions left him.—lHomer, Odys- 
ar if. 

Outram (/inec), park-keeper to sir 
Geoffrey Peveri.—sir W. Scott, Peveril 
of the Jeank (time, Charles IT.). 


Over the Hills and Far Away. 


—Farquhar, he Averuitinyg Officer (1705). 


Overdees (furiry), «a highwayman, 
—Sir "". Scott, Guy Afunneriny (time, 
George IT.). 


O'verdo (./ustice), in Ben Jonson's 
Barthwlomew Fair (1614). 


Overdone (Mistress), a bawd. - 
Shakespeare, Jfeisure for Measure (1603). 


Overreach (Sir Giles), Wellborn’s 
uncle. An unscrupulous, hard-hearted 
rascal, wrasping and ar Ile ruined 

eth of Wellbur and All- 
worth, and by overreaching grew enors 
mowsly mich. Hie ambition was to see 
his daughter Margarct marry peer 5 
but the overrencher was overreached, 
Thinking Wellborn was alout to marry 
the neh dowager Allworth, he not only 
pail all bis debts, but supplied his pre- 
vent wants mnst liberally, under the 
delusion “if she prove his, all that ia bers 
is mine.” Having thus done, be finds 
that lady Allworth dors not marry Well- 
born but lord Lovell. In regard to 
Maryaret, fancying she was sure to marry 
lord Lovell, he gives bis full consent to 
her marnage ; but finds she returns from 
eburch not lady Lovell but Mra. All 
worth.—Massinger, A New Way to Pay 
Old Debts (1628), 


the bates 








OXFORD. 


he has married and is hen-pecked ; cala- 
mity has befallenhim. The black ox was 
sacrificed to the infernals, and was con- 
sequently held accursed. When Tusser 
sayn the best way to thrive is to pet 
married, the objector says: 
Trg, ts, ot pret ok 
If that way were to thrive 
Wiving and Theteing, Wil. (BGT), 





Heywood (iii. 


Oxford (John earl of), an exiled Lan- 
castrian. He appears with his son Arthur 
as a travelling merchant, under the name 
of Philipson. 

> son of the merchant Philipson 
Is sir Arthur de Vere. 

The countess of Oxford, wife of the earl. 
—Sir W. Scott, Anne of Geierstein (time, 
Edward IV.). 


Oxford ( The young earl o 
of queen Flizabeth.—Sir \ 
worth (time, Elizabeth). 


Oxford Boat Crew, dark blue. 
Cambridge boat crew, (ujht blue. 

*,* Oxford Blues, the Royal Horse 
Guards. 


Oxford University, said to have 

been founded bv king Alfred, in 88. 
. . Pelilous Alfred . 

Renowndd Oxford built to Apollo's learned brood 

And on the halluwed bank of [als’ goodly flood, 

Worthy the glorious arts, did gorgeous bowers jrrmrisda. 

Drayton, Polyolbton, xi. | Liii5). 

Oyster. Pistol says, “The world's 
mine oyster, which I with sword will 
open.” He alludes to the proverb, *‘ ‘The 
mayor of Northampton opens oysters wilh 
his dagger,” for, Northampton being some 
eighty miles from the sea, oysters were 
so stale before they reached the town 
(before railroads or even coaches were 
known), that the ‘‘mayor” would be 
loth to briny them near his nose. 


Oysters. Those most esteemed by 
the Komans were the ovsters of Cyxicum, 
in Bithyma, and of Lucrinum, in “Apulia, 
upon the Adriatic Sea. The best in 
Britain used to be the oysters of Walfleet, 
pear Colchester. 


Think you our oysters here unworthy of your pruim | 
Pure Walfieet ... as excellent as those . 
The C)aic shells, ‘of those on the Lucrintan coast. 
Drayton, Pelyoibien, xiz. | iT). 
*,* The oysters most esteemed by 
Englishinen are the Whitstable, which 
fetch a fabulous price. Colchester oysters 


, in the court 
. Scott, Aenil- 


‘natives) in 1875 were sold at 4s. a dozen. | 


719 


P. 
- Ozair (2 syl.), prope One day, 


riding on an ass ‘Y e ruins of Jerusa~ 
lem, after its destruction by the Chal- 
deans, he doubted in his mind whether 
God could raise the city up again. 
Whereupon God cansed him to die, and 
he remained dead a hundred years, but 
was then restored to life. He found the 
basket of figs and cruse of wine as fresh 
as when he died, but his ass was a mass 
of bones. While he still looked, the dry 
bones came together, received life, and 
the resuscitated ass began to bray. The 
oe ety no longer doubted the power of 

rod to raise op Jerusalem from its ruins, 

— Al! Korda, it. (Sale's notes). 

*.* This legend is based on NeA. ii. 
12-20, 





P. 


P. Placentins the dominican wrote a 
poem of 253 Latin hexameters, called 
urna Porcerum, every word of which 
beyins with the letter p (died 1548). It 
begins thus: 


Plasdiie, PorseDl, person pig propa 
Prugreditur,.. oe 


There was one composed in honour of 
Charles le Chauve, every word of which 
beran with ec. 

The best-known alliterative poem in 
English is the following :— 


An Amtrinn anny, aefolly array, 
Boldly by buttery beatggml Deloracde, 
muck smnunien anocmling., aor, 
Leaving destreciin's dewnsioding dieu 
Every endarour engines aay 
For fame, for fortum, forming forious (ray, 
Gaunt gcunvere grayqle, giving pacles poe 
Heaves files hile tend berole hartitiorL 
Jira, Lele, Leiel, Lopes ii bl 
Joile Jobo Jarovliia, Jem, Jom Jock, JD; 
Kick kimlling Kotusof kines’ Kinane kil ; 
Lalweur brew bevels boftiest, jougeet ilies ; 
Mar oumrecis ‘oiled masked, “tidal mous, ‘nll poh 
milrees 
How olghifalls nich, now needful nature towthe, 
Oppumel, oj; [eming, overcoming o 
Pir penn ri be, partly pitched, partly presecsl, 
Quite qanking, * Quarter] Quarter!” quickly qusst 
Lamon Peiarua pocolls redloidlant roge, 
Rave diking middie, aftens alge ee, 
Truce, Turkey, truce! truce. trexcherqus Tartar train | 
Vows, dnjust, gamerctiul UV orale | 
Vanish, vile fweepeere | vanish, victory valn[ 
Wisdom walla wer—wells warring worn, Wha werw 
Zari, Maiilippd, Rime, Aavier? 
Vet Vamy as yout, ye piel pour yuuthful Jet 
Zenicnialy, aan les, Bmildialy, Renda Get. 
From H. Southgate, Mawy Tieaght om Many Thing, 


Tusser has a poem of twelve lines, in 
rhyme, every word of which begina with 
t.” The subject is on Thriftiness (died 
1680°, 








PAGE, 

Windsor, When sir John Falstaff made 
love to Mra. Puye, Page himaclf assumed 
the name of Itronk, to outwit the knight. 
Sir Jolin told the supposed Lrook his 
whole “course of wooing,” and how 
nicely ne was bainbowsling the husband. 
On one occasion, he gays, ‘*] wos carried 
out in a buck-basket of dirty linen before 
the very cyes of Lave, and the deluded 
bushend did net knuw it.” Of course, 
gir John is thoroughly outwittel and 
played upon, being made the butt of the 
whule villaye, 

Mrs. J’aje, wife of Mr. Page, of Wind- 
sor, When sir Jobn Falstalf made love 
to her, she joined with Mrs, Ford to dupe 
bin and Uaesape him. 


Anne /‘uye, daughter of the above, in 
love with Fenton, Slender calls her 


“the eweet Anne Page.” 

Willi Jaye, Anne's brother, a school- 
be ve — Shakespeare, Merry Wires of 
Wincdeur (1500), 


Jaye (Sie Francis), called The Iang- 
ing Judee (1itil-1741), 

Klander an) jeden reed frm Dielia'e rage ; 
lian wounds or hanging UW yuur jualge le Page, 
lope. 

Paget (fhe dint), one of the ladies 
of tue ledehamtwer in queen bhlizabeth s 
eourt.—Sir W, sett, Dendenoth (lime, 
Elizala tlij. 

Painted Chamber ( ir), an apart- 
ment in tue old Reval Palace of West- 
minster, the Walls of which were painted 
chi ih’ with bal'ie-scenes, in #Ix lands, 
aonewhet eimilar tv the Hayenux ta- 
pec strs ‘ 


Painted Mischief, playing cards. 


Thre ure pelannty of Bape eal peril Hig Bi a withmnt 
Peete tee the petted iil Sled wee tet in 
wititesd for the benetit ol bot tials VL uf Fee — 
digs gg Sows, Blank ®, boo 


Painter of Nature. hemi bellean, 
one df the llewad pawts, tage culled (lo26— 
iva a ps 

Jie Shepheards Calomiar, by Spenser, 
is Jargely Lerroweedl trom Dellewu's Sumy 
PP ok bi alle 

Painter of the Graces, Andrea 
Appian (174-18 1e). 

Painters. 

A dice. ()uintin Matevse, the Dutch 
paiuter, jalitited ao lee so well that the 
artist Mandi thivyht it a renl bee, and 
weeded te brush it away with his 
F ndher hvaerd { } ‘AL ht). 

i tw, Myre carved a cow so true 
to nature that lulls mistook it for a living 
Bpltial (Ww. 41), 

31 


721 PAINTERS' CHARACTERISTICS. 
A Curtain. Parrhasios painted a cur- 











tnin so admirably that even Zeuxis, the 
artist, mistook it for real drapery (B.c. 
400), 

A Fly. George Alexander Stevens sa 
in his Lectures un Heads: sa 


T have beard of a connolseur who was one day in an 
socfion-room where thers wa an [nimlinlle jtece of 
maining of fruls and flowera The conmoleeur would 
nm give lile oplulon of the pleture till lie hed fiews exe 
poe! ie comlogus; ml Gidling it waa done by an 
Entlishtiman, he pulled oot hh eyegin, “Oh, afr,” 
mye be, “thom English fellows have mo more idea of 
penlue than o Detch skipper bes of dancing a cotiliion. 
The disc hee polled a fue plese of cunvea; he tf wore 
tha a Mary Alley clamn-poet dawker, There's no keeping, 
no permpeciive, no foreeround. Why, thers now, the 
fel-ew hn actully dtiempied to pulat & fy gpom thas 
rosted. Why, it i oo more like ao fy thon | am Ube 
— >" bul m he approacivl bla finger to ihe 


| the fly Sew away (17a) 


Grapes. Zeuxis (2 syl.), a Grecian 

inter, painted some grapes so well that 
Lirds came and pecked at them, thinking 
them real grapes (B.c. 400). 

A Horse. Apellés painted Alexander’s 
horse Bucephalos so true to life that 
sume Mares came up to the canvas neigh- 
ing, under the supposition that it was a 
real animal (about B.c. 334). 

A Man, Velasquez painted a Spanish 
adniiral so true to life that when king 
Felipe IV. entered the studio, he mis- 
towk the painting for the man, and 
Lean repruving the supposed officer for 
neglecting his duty, in wasting his time 
in the studio, when he ought to have been 
with his tleet (1590-1660). 

Aveidental effects in painting. 

Apelles, being at a loss to paint the 
foam of Alexander's horse, dashed his 
brush at the picture in a fit of annoyanc 
and did by accident what his skill 
failed to do (about B.c. 33-4). 

The same tale is told of Peeing ench 
who dashed bis brush at a picture, an 
thus produced “the foam of a dog's 
mouth,” which he had long been trying 
in Vain to represent (about h.c. 332). 


Jainters (Prince of). YVarrhasios and 
Apelles are both so called (fourth century 
BK...) 

Painters’ Characteristics. 

ANcELo (Sfwhuel): an iron frame, 
strongly developed muscles, and an ana- 
tomical display of the human _ figure. 
The #schylos of painters (1474-1564). 

CARRACCI: eclectic artists, who picked 
out and pieced together parts taken from 
Correggio, Raphael, Titian, and other 
great artists. If Michael Angelo is the 
/JEechylos of artists, and Raphael the 
Sophocléa, the Carracci may be called 
the Euripidés of painters. Lid not 

r 





PALAMEDES., 


PALINODE. 





Selectationem magna eruditione atque Ingenio invenit, 
Tabala enim est mondus terre-tris, doudenartus numerus 
ort Zodincas, ipes vero arce ot septem in ea grana sunt 
septem stelle planpetarum. Turris est altit corti, ex 
qua o omnibus bona e¢ mals rependuntur.—Sui‘as (Wolf's 

Palame’des (Sir), a Saracen, who 
adored Isolde the wife of king Mark of 
Cornwall. Sir Tristrem also loved the 
same lady, who was his aunt. The two 
“lovers” fought, and sir Palamedés, 
being overcome, was compelled to turn 
Christian. He was baptized, and sir 
Tristrem stood his sponsor at the font.— 
Thomas of Erceldoune, called ‘* The 
Rhymer,” Sir Tristren (thirteenth cen- 
tury). 

Palame’des of Lombardy, one 
of the allies of the Christian army in the 
first crusade. He was shot by Corinda 
with an arrow (bk. xi.).—Tasso, Jeru- 
salem Delivered (1575). 

Pal’amon and Arcite (2 sy/.), two 

oung Theban knights, who fell into the 

ds of duke Theseus (2 sy/.), and were 
by him confined in a dungeon at Athens. 
Here they saw the duke's sister-in-law 
Emily, with whom both fell in love. 
When released from captivity, the two 
knights told to the duke their tale of 
love; and the duke promised that which- 
ever proved the victor in single combat, 
should have Emily for his prize. Arcite 
prayed to Mars ‘‘for victory,” and Pala- 
mon to Venus that he might ‘ obtain 
the Indy,” and both their prayers were 
granted. Arcite won the victory, ac- 
cording to his prayer, but, being thrown 
from his horse, died; so Palamon, after 
all, ‘‘ won the lady,” though he did not 
win the battle.—Chaucer, Canterbury 
Lules (** The Kniht’s Tale,” 1388). 

This tale is taken from the Le Teaside 
of Boccaccio. 

The Black Horse, a drama by John 
Fletcher, is the same tale. Richard 
Edwards has a comedy called Pulamon 
and Arcyte (1566). 

Pale (Thr) or Tir Excuisn Pate, 
a part of Ireland, including Dublin, 
Meath, Carlow, Kilkenny, and Louth. 


Pale Faces. So the American 
Indians call the European settlers. 


Pale’mon, son of a rich merchant. 
Tle fell in love with Anna, daughter of 
Albert master of one of his father’s 
ships. The purse-proud merchant, in- 
dinant at this, tried every means to 
enduce his son to abandon such a “ mean 
connection,” but without avail; so at 
Jaat he sent him in the Lritannia (Albert's 


ship) ‘‘in charge of the merchandise.” 

The ship was wrecked near cape Colonna, 

in Attica; and although Palémon es- 

caned, his ribs were so broken that he 

died almost as soon as he reached the 
ore. 


Pale’mon and Lavinia, a poetic 
version of Boaz and Ruth. ‘‘ The lovely 
young Lavinia” went to glean in the 
fields of young Palemon “the pride of 
ewains;" and Palemon, falling in love 
with the beautiful gleaner, both wooed 
and won her.—Thomson, The Seasons 
(‘‘ Autumn,” 1730). 


Pales (2 syl.), god of shepherds and 
their focks.— Roman Mythology. 
Pomdna loves the orchard ; 


kine, 
Lord , Lays of Ancient Rome (“ 
Macaulay nen ons | Prophesy 


Pal’inode (8 sy/.), a shepherd in 
Spenser's Lcloques. In ecl. v. Palinode 
represents the catholic priest. He in- 
vites Piers (who represents the protestant 
clergy) to join in the fun and pleasures. 
of May. Piers then wams the you 
man of the vanities of the world, an 
tells him of the great degeneracy of 
pastoral life, at one time simple and 
rugal, but now discontented and licen- 
tious. He concludes with the fable of 
the kid and her dam. The fable is this: 
A mother-goat, going abroad for the day, 
told her kid to keep at home, and not to 
open the door to strangers. She had not 
been gone long, when up came a fo 
with head bound from ‘‘ headache,” an 
foot bound from ‘ gout,” and ying a 
ped of trinkets. The fox told the kid 
a most piteous tale, and showed her a 
little mirror, The kid, out of pity and 
vanity, opened the door ; but while stoop 
ing over the ped to pick up a little 
the fox clapped down the lid, and carried 
her off. 

In ecl. vii. Palinode is referred to a 
the shepherd Thomalin as ‘lo 
over God's heritage,” feeding the sheep 
with chaff, and keeping for himself the 
Feray, ePenser pheardes Calendar 

(%). 

Pal'inode (3 syl.), @ poem in recanta- 
tion of acalumny. Stesich’orcs wrote a 
bitter satire ayainst Helen. for which her 
brothers, Castor and Pollux, plucked out 
his eyes. When, however, poet se- 








PALOMIDES. 





was pot to death on the capture of 
Zenobia. 
The Palmyrene that fought Aurelian. 
Tennyson, The Princess, iL. (1847), 

Pal’omides (Sir), son and heir of 
sir Astlabor. His brothers were sir Safire 
and sir Serwaridés. Ile is always called 
the Sarncen, meaning ‘‘unchristened.” 
Next tothe three great knights (sir Laun- 
celot, sir Tristram, and sir Lamorake), he 
was the strengest and bravest of the 
fellowship of the Round Table. Like sir 
Tristram, he was in love with La Belle 
Isond wife of king Mark of Cornwall ; but 
the lady favoured the love of sir Tristram, 
and only despised that of the Saracen 
knight. After his combat with sir Tris- 
tram, sir Palomides consented to be bap- 
tized by the bishop of Carlisle (pt. ili. 28). 

He was well male, cleanly, and bigty, and neither too 
young nor teo ld. And though he was not christened, 
yet he believed in the best manners. and was faithful and 
true of his promise, and also well conditioned. He made 
avow that he would never be christened unto the time 
that he achieved the beast Glatiaint. . .. And also be 
avowed never to take full christendom unto the time that 
be haul done seven battles within the lista,~-Sir T. Malory, 
History Of Prince Arthur, Mt 149 (1479). 

Pam, Henry John Temple, viscount 
Palmerston (1784-1805). 


Pam’ela. Lady Edward Fitzgerald is 
go called (*-1831). 


Pan’ela’ [ANprews], a simple, un- 
sophistical country yirl, the daughter of 
two ayved parents, and maidservant of a 
rich youny squire, called B, who tries to 
seduce her. She resists every temptatio 
and at lenvth marries the vouny squire an 
reforms him. Pamela is very pure and 
modest, bears her attlictions with much 
meckness, and is a model of maidenly 
prudence and rectitude. The story is told 
Ina series of letters which Pamela sends 
to her parents.—S. Richardson, /’amnela or 
Vortue Lerrarded (1010). 

The pure and niowde-t character of the English malden 
[fameli) isso well maintained, .. . her sorrows and 
afflictions are borne with ao much meekness; her litue 
Intervals of bope oo. . break in on her troubles so much 
Dhe the specks of blue sky through a clouds atmosphere, 
—that the whole teeotlectlon is soothing, tranquilllaing, 
and deubth ~~ elifying.—Sir W. Scott 

Pamel: isa work of much bumbler pretenstone than 
Claursea Purtowe. . 0. Asiupie country girl, whom ber 
Naswter attenipts to seduce, and afterwards marries... . 
The wantrobe of poor Pamela, her gown of sid-coloured 
stuff. ane her round-esred cape; ber various attempts ag 
ewape, ated the conveyance of her letters; the hateful 
charter of Mrs, Jewkee, and the fluctuating passions of 
her nieter before the better part of his nature obtains 
nae dates,—these are ail touched with the band of a 
tas ter. —Cisunbers, Angles Leterature, Wo 16L 


Pope calls the word ‘* Paméla:” 


The eta, to curse Pamdla with ber prayers, 
Gave the galt couch and dappled Flanders mares, 
The shintie roles, rich jewels, beds of state, 
Aut, to conplete hee bliss, « fool for mate, 

Ble clares in balls, front boxes, and the ring, 

4 vain, unquict, glittering, wretubed thing 3 


725 








PANCASTE. 


Pride. P. and state, but reach her outward part,— 
She and is no duchess at her heart. 
Eypistios (“To Mra. Blount, with the worst 
of Voiture,” 1709). 

Pami’na and Tami’no, the two 
lovers who were guided by ‘the magic 
flute” through all worldly dangers to 
the knowledge of divine truth (or the 
mysteries of Isis).—Mozart, Die 
fbte (1790). 


Pamphlet (Hr.), a penny-a-line. 
His great wish was *‘to be taken up for 
sedition.” He writes on both sides, for, 
as he says, he has ‘“‘ two hands, ambe 

xter.”' 


** Time has been,” he says, *‘ when I could turn a penny 
by an earthquake, or live upon a jall distemper, or dine 
upon a bloody murder; but now that's all over—nothing 
will do now but roasting a minister. or talling the people 
they are ruined The ple of England are never so 
happy as when you tell the:n they are ruined."—Murphy, 
The LU; Aolsteren, ib. 1 (1758). 

Pan, Nature personified, especially 
the vital crescent power of nature. 


Universal Pan. 
Knit wit). the Graces and the Hours in danca, 
Lad on the eternal spring. 
Milton Parisdisc Lost, iv. 966, etc. (1008), 


Pan, 1n Spenscr’s ecl. iv., is Henry VIII, 
and “Syrinx "is Anne Boleyn. Inecl, 
v. ‘* Pan” stands for Jesus Christ in one 
passage, and for God the Father in 
another.—Spenser, Shepheardes Casendar 
(1572). 

Pan (The Great), Francois M. A. de 
Voltaire; also called ‘‘The Dictator of 
Letters” (1694-1778). 


Panacea. Prince Ahmed’s apple or 
apple of Samarcand (see p. 45). The 
balsam of Fierabras (see p. 75). The 
Promethean unguent rendered the body 
invulnerable. <Aladdins rng was a pre- 
servative against all ills that flesh is heir 
to (see p. 15). Then there were the Youth 
Restorers. And the healers of wounds, 
such as Achillés’s spear, also called ‘‘ The 
Spear of Telephus” (see p. 4); Gilbert's 
sword (see p. 382) ; and 80 on. 


Pancaste (3 sy.) or CAMPASPE, one 
of the concubines of Alexander the Great. 
Apellés fell in love with her while he 
was employed in painting the king of 
Macedon, and Alexander, out of regard to 
the artist, gave her to him for a wife. 
Apellés selected for his ‘‘ Venus Rising 
from the Sea” (usually called ‘ Venus 
Anadyoméné”) this beautiful Athenian 
woman, together with Phryné another 
Oe,” Phrynd Iso the acad 

* ryn8 was also the em 
figure for the “‘ Cnidian Venus ” of Praxi- 
es. 











- ser me ee oe eww Se oe 


PANDOSTO. 








727, +PANTAGRUEL 





N LAWSUIT. 





have been; ” so audaciur, timidwr, vehe- 
mentior, iracundior, etc. 


Pandosto or The Trivmph of Time, 
a tale by Robert Greene (1588), the quarry 
of the plot of The Winter's Tile by 
Shakespeare. 


Panel (The), by J. Kemble, ia a 
modified version of Hickerstaff’s comedy 
“Tis Well ‘tis no Worse. It contains the 
popular quotation : 

Perhaps it was right to dissemble your lore; 
But why do you kick me downetaira 

Pangloss (Pr. Peter), an LL.D. and 

A.S.5. Ile begun life as a muffin-maker 
in Milk Alley. Daniel Dowlas, when he 
was raised from the chandler's shop in 
Gosport ty the peerage, eniploved the 
doctor “to larn him to talk English ;" 
and subsequently made him tutor to his 
eon Dick, with a salary of £300 a year. 
lbr. Tangloss was a literary prig of 
ponderous ,pomposity. He talked of a 
‘Locomotive morning,” of one's “* spon- 
serial and patronymic appellations,” and 
go on; was especially fond of quotatiuns, 
te all of which he assizned the author, 
as “' Lend me your ears. Shakespeare, 
Hem!" or “ Veroun sal. orace, 
Hem!” He also indulged in an affected 
“He! he!"—G, Colman, The Jfeir-ut- 
Law (1797). 

A.5.5. stands for Artinum Socwtatis 
Socius (‘* Fellow of the Society of Arts"). 


Pawjloss, an optimist philosopher. (The 
word meana “‘ All Tongue.”)—Voltaire, 
Cunclide. 


Panjam, a male idol of the Oroungou 
trilesof Africa ; lis wifeis Aléka, and his 
priests are called panjans., Danjam is 
the special protector of kings and govern- 
mits. 


Panjandrum (Jhe Grawi), any vil- 
lage potentate or [rummagem magnate, 
The word oecura in 5. Foote’s farmyo of 
bengense, Which he wrote to test the 
Hiemery of old Macklin, whe said in a 


lecture ** he had broughthis own meniory | 
tu such perfection that he could learn 


anVthing by rete on once hearing it.” 


ile wat the Great Paojandrum of the plae,.—Perey | 


Fitrgeralad. 

*.* The squire 
Grand Manjandrium, and the small gentry 
the Pieninnies, Joblillies, and Garyulies, 

Fowte's nonsense lines are these : 


Fo the weit inte the ganien to cote cabbage leaf to | 


Piake oi ayejile pele; Gil at ihe dare Le & prem abe. 
bear, conaing up Ue Street, psp Ike bed loto the shi, 
* What! tie map?” ee he diel, ond aha very impr 
dently married the barber; amd tuere were present the 


| Her 


| traceable to 


of a village is the | 





Picninnies, and the Jobliliies, amd the Garyulies, and the 
Grand Panjandrum bimeelf, with the little round bettes 
at top, aol they all fell 1 playing the gume of catch os 
cquch can, Ul! the gunpowdler ran owt at the heel of thelz 
—— Foote, Tha Querter!y Leriew, tev. 516, 517 


Pan'ope (3 sy/.), one of the nereids. 
“sisters” are the ses-nympha. 
Panopé was invoked by eailora in storms. 


ok ne a 

Pantag’ruel', king of the Dipsodes 
(2 syl.), son of Gargantua, and of 
the race of giants. His mother Badelec 
died in giving him birth, His paternal 
randfather was named (srangousier. 
Pantaurnal was a lineal descendant of 
Fierabrar, the Titans, Golinth, Poly- 
pheme \8 sy/.), and all the other giants 
ialbrook, who lived in 
that extraordinary period noted for its 
“week of three Thursdays.” The word 
is a hybrid, compounded of the Greek 
panta (“all”) and the Hagarene word 
gruel (‘thirsty"). [lis immortal achieve- 
ment was hia ‘‘ quest of the oracle of the 
Hloly Bottle."—Rabelais, Garyantua and 
Pantayruel, ii. (1533). 


Pantag’ruel’s Course of Study. 
Pantagruel’s father, Gargantua, said 
a letter to his son: 


“| inter! and loetet that you learn all Wnguagres 
perfectly; first of oll Greek. in Qulntillan’s method; 
then Latin, then Hebrew, then Arable and Chaldee. I 
wish fu to form your efyle of Creek on the model ot 
Plate, and of Latin un that of Cieeru. Let there be no 
history wu hawe mot af your fingers’ ends, and study 
thercughly comagraphy ond geography. Of Nberal arts, 
sich ma geimetry, saatbematies tol mule, 7 gave you 
Af taste whe not above five years old, ard | would have 
you mow miter them fully. Stal mtromomy. bute not 
Wivinathin and judleln) satrology, which | consder mere 
wanliles, As for civil law, | wuld have thee know the 
digewtis ly heart Viti deeold ale linve a perfect know- 

eof the works of Nature, m that there is no own, 
Fiver, or anialles! sien which po du not know fur 
What fel it bi wretm!, wheres Lt proorests. and whither it 
directs Ite course; all fewle wf the olr, all shrube and 
trees whether forest or orchard, al! herle and flowers 
al) mortals ond whine, showkd be oastered by you. Fail 
ful at ie cone Line niet carefully ty jerome the Tal- 
Ciinliste oil Cobeljeis suvel ley sure iy [reqieent anatomnics 
io goin aw jerfert kLiuwhelge of thal other work! called 
the tilrrcom, which ls mun, Master all these in your 
mong days, ool let molhing be superficial; as you grow 
Hit micheal tr nt Learn chivalry, @arlare, and Geld 
fetes.” —Halelaks, Santagre!, IL B LSS) 


Pantag'ruel’s Tongue. It formed 
shelterfora wholearmy. Ilis throat and 
mouth contained whole cities, 


Then did ty [fhe army) pot Chemmelves in closes 
onder, and gos) os pen Li och other me they could, and 
Paotecrued jurt out ble tommue hall-way, and covered them 
OL m ahben doth her chickent.—babelaia, Sontugrad, i. 


2 (1553). 

Pantagruelian Lawsuit (12). 
This was between lord “tonne ng 
lord Suckfist, who pleaded their owr 
cases. The writa, etc., were as much as 
four asses could carry. After the 
plaintiff had stated his case, and the de. 





eee ee 


PAPHIAN MIMP. 729 








PARADISE. 





Paphian Mimp, a certain plie of 
the lips, considered needful for “ the 
bighly genteel.” Lady Emily told Miss 
Alserip “the heiress" that it was 
acquired by placing one's self before o 
looking-glass, and repeating continually 
the words “nimini pimini:” ““when the 
tips cannot fail to take the mght plie,”"— 
General Burgoyne, Jie Heiress, ui. 2 
(1781). | 

4G. Dickens has made Mrs, General 
tell Amy Dorrit that the pretty plie is 
given to the lips by pronouncing the 
words, “papa, potatoes, poultry, prunes, 
and prism.") 


Papillon, « broken-down critic, who 
earned four shillings a week for reviews 
of translations “without knowing one 
-6¥ilable of the orginal,” and of “ books 
which he had never read.” Ile then 
turned French valet, and eot well paid. 
He then fell mto the service of Jack 
Wilding, and was valey, French marquis, 
or anything else to suit the whims of that 
etd scapezrace.—S. Foote, Zie Liar 

1761). 


Papimany, the kinglom of the 
Papinans. Any prest-ndden country, 
as Spain. Papiman is compounded of 
two Gireek words, poy mini (** pope- 
mminess "),—IDtabeluis, /untayruel, iv, 45 
(L545). 


Papy'ra, godiless of printing and 
literature ; si calied from pyrus, o 
fulaiance once used for books, before 
the invention of paper. 

TU te satonlebel! reli Pay tht 

Tet pagent doe tjgetie Cedars ame aia) Picmnigey ty 
With Whalen’: iunw to prot the pegee ollie, 
And miark in wliinnt the wep of Tine. 


Larwis, Lore of fee Miata, LL PLR 
Pa'quin, I'vkin, o roval city of 
China. Milton saya: “ Payuin [the 


throne) of Sinwan kings,”"—J'arudise Lust, 
xi. shia (Lt). 


Paracelsus is sail to hare kept a 
ginal devil prisoner in the pommel of his 
ewer. ie favourcd metallic substances 
for medivines, wile Galen preferred 
herle, lis foll name waa Philippus 
Aure'clus Theophrastus [aracelaus, tees 
his fanily come was Rombastus (1495— 
Lid). 


/iricefang, at the age of 20, thinks 
Anmvitiidye the suruinn bonum, and at the 
wivice of lua two friends, Festua and 
Mivhal, nmetires ty o seat of learning in 

ueat thereof, Eight veors later, being 
witisticd, le falla in with Aprile, ao 


Italian poet, and resolves to scek the 
summon Sonum in love. Again he fails, 
and finally determines “to know and te 
enjoy."—R. Drowning, Paracelsus, 


Par’adine (3 syl.), son of Astolpho, 
and brother of Dargonet, both rivals for 
the love of Laura. In the combat 

rovoked by prince Oswald against 

rondibert, which was decided by four 
combatants on each side, Hugo “ 
Little” slew both the brothers.—Sir Wm. 
Davenant, Gondibert, i. (died 1668), 

Paradisa'ica (“the fruit of para- 
die”), So the banana g called. The 
Mohammedans aver that the “ forbidden 
fruit” was the banaca or Indian fig, and 
cite in confirmation of this opinion that 
our first parents used fig leaves for their 
covering after their fall, 

Paradise, in thirty-three cantos, by 
Danté (1311). Paradise ia separated 
from Purgatory by the river Lethé; and 


| Dant@ was conducted through nine of 


the spheres by Ieatrice, who left him in 
the sphere of “* unbodied light," under the 
charge of St. Bernard (canto xxxi.). 
The entire region is divided into ten 
spheres, cach of which is appropriated 
to its proper order, The first seven 
spores are the seven planeta, via. (1) 
1 Moon for angels, (2) Mercury for 
archangels, (3) Venus for virtues, (4) the 
Sun for powers, (5) Mara for principalities, 
(i) Jupiter for dominions, &) Saturn for 
thrones, The eichth ephere is that of 
the fixed stars for the cherubim; the 
ninth is the primum mobtlé for the 
aeraphim ; and the tenth is the empyre'an 
for the Virgin Mary and the triune deity. 
Beatrice, with Ruchel, Sarah, Judith, 
Rebecea, and Ruth, St. Augustin, St. 
Frincis, St. Benedict, and others, were 
enthroned in Venus the sphere of the 
virtues. The empyrean, he says, is a 
aphere of ‘“‘unbodied light,” “ bright 
ciluence of bright essence, uncreate,” 
This is what the Jews called “the 
heaven of the heavens.” 


Paradise was placed, in the lerendary 
maps of the Middle Ages, in Ceylon; 
but Muhomet placed it “in the seventh 
heaven.” The Arabs have a tradition 
that when oar first parents were cast out 
of the garden, Adam fell in the isle of 
Cevlon, and Eve in Joddah (the port off 
Mecca).—Al Avran, i. 

f'arudise of Central Africa, Fatiko.— 
Sir S. Baker, Lzploration of the. Mile 
Sources (1566). 





PARAGUAY. 





781 


PARIDEL. 





Jews were for the present under a clond 
for their sins, but that the time would 
come when God would put forth His 
hand on their behalf. 

IV. Satan shows Jesus Rome, with all 
ite greatness, and says, ‘‘] can easily 
dethrone T iberius, and seat Thee on the 
imperial throne.” He then shows Him 
Athens, and says, “‘I will make Thee 
master of their wisdom and high state 
of civilization, if Thou wilt fall down 
and worship me.” ‘Get thee behind 
Me, Satan!" was me indignant answer ; 
and Satan, finding all his endeavours 
uzeleas, tells Jesus of the sufferings 
prepared for Him, takes Him back to 
the wildernesa, and leaves Him there; 
but angels come and minister unto Him, 
—Milton (1671). 


Paraguay (A Tule of), by Southey, 
in four cantos (1814). “The small-pox, 
having broken out amonpst the Guarinis, 
carried off the whole tribe except (huidra 
and his wife Monntma, who then mi- 
erated from the fatal spot to the Mondai 
woods, Tere a son (Yerati) and after- 
words a daughter (Mooma) were born; 
but before the birth of the latter, the 
father was eaten by a jagiar, W hen the 
children were of a youthful age, a Jesuit 
Priest induved the three to come and live 
at St. Jodchin (3 sy/.); 80 they left the 
wild woois for a city life. Here, in a 
few months, the mother flagged and 
died, The daughter next drooped, and 
goon followed her mother to the grave. 
The son, now the only remaining one of 
the entire race, begued to be baptized, 
received the rite, eried, “ Yeare come for 
me! Jam ready ; 


Parallel. “None but thyself can 
be thy parallel," from Ze Domble Fulse- 
Awe, tw Theobald (1721). Massinger, 
in J’ Jétke of Milan, iw. & (1662), 
makes Sforza say of Marelia: 

Her peal dors dlelaln comparison, 
Aud, bot Lerpelf, gilimiie re poured 

Parc aux Cerfs (‘the deer park"), 
a mansion in Versailles, to which girls 
were inveizled for the licentioua pleasure 
of lawia XV. An Alentia, 

Boul ie nay on proud of being the pare ager oer’ 
fo thee whem renter greed drives from their island 
hone, — el ured y irrire, 

Par’cinus, a young prince in love 
with his rousitt Trelit'a, but beloved by 
Avi. «~The fatry Tanamo was Azirn‘s 
mother, 
marry the fairy Irutus ; 
aided by 


“and died also, 


but Pareinus, 
the fairy Favourable, sur- 


| Preaching the spot, 
| treasure, 


and resolved to make Trolita | 





mounted all obstacles, married Irolita, 
and made Brotus marry Azira. 


Parciow had a noble alr, a ee 
of hair adorably wee -« « Ne did cd al the 
danced and ang to ection, and mined thes prises 
at tournaments, whenever he contended 
Comtesse D’Aunoy, Fairy Fafes (*' Perfect low" 1), 
Par'dalo, the demon-steed given to 
Iniguez Guerra by his gobelin mother, that 
he might ride to Tolédo and liberate hia 
father, don Lhego Lopez lord of Biscay, 
who had fallen into the hands of the 
Moora.— Spanish Story. 


Par'diggle (Jfrs.), a formidabie 
lady, who conveyed to one the idea “ of 
wanting a great deal of room.” Like 
Mrs. Jellyby, she devoted herself to the 
concerns of Africa, and made her family 
of small boys contribute all their pocket 
money to the enuse of the Borrioboola 
Gha mission.—C, Dickens, Bleak Mouse 
(1853). 

Pardoner’s Tale ( Tic), in Chaucer's 
Canterbury Tales, ia ** Death and the 
Rioters.” Three rioters agree to hant 
duwo Death, and kill him. An old man 
directs them to a tree in o lane, where, 
as he said, he had just left him. On 
they find a rich 
and cast lots to decide who is 
to po and buy food. The lot falls on the 
youngest, and the other two, during his 
absence, * to kill him on his return. 
The rascal sent to buy food poisons the 
wine, in order to secure to himself the 
whole treasure. Now comes the catas- 
trophe: The two set on the third and 
slay him, but die seon after of the poi- 
soned wine; so the three rioters find death 
under the tree, as the old man said, 
pallering in a double sense (1384), 


Parian Chronicle, a register of 
the chief events in the history of ancient 
Greece for 1318 years, beginning with 
the reign of Cecrops and ending with 
the archonship of Lhiognétua, It is one 
of the Arundelian Marbles, and was 
found in the island of Paros, 


Parian Verse, ill-natured satire ; 
- called from Archil'ochus, a native od 
Paros. 


Pari-Ba'nou, oa fairy who gave prince 
Ahmed a tent, which would fold into so 
small a compass that a lady might carry 
it about as a toy, but, when spread, it 
would cover a whole army.—Aratian 
Niyits (“* Prince Ahmed and IT ari- 
HBanou "), 

Paridel ia a name employed in the 








PARISMUS. 


the Golden Tower.”—Emanuel Foord, 
Parisienos (1598). 


Paris’mus, a valiant and renowned 
prince of Bohemia, the hero of a romance 
eo called. This ‘‘history ” contains an 
account of his battles against the Per- 
sians, his love for Laurana, daughter of 
the king of Thessaly, and his strange 
adventures in the Desolate Island. The 
wecond part contains the exploits and 
leve aftaira of Parisine’nos.—Emanuel 
Foord, Parismus (1598). 


Pariza’de (4 syl.), daughter of 
Khrosron-schah sultan of Persia, and 
sister of Bahman and Perviz. These 
three, in infancy, were sent adrift, each at 
the time of birth, through the jealousy 
of their two maternal aunts, who went to 
nurse the sultana in her continement; but 
they were drawn out of the canal by the 
superintendent of the sultan’s gardens, 
who brounyhtthem up. Parizadé rivalled 
her brothers in horsemanship, archery, 
running, and literature. Qne day, a 
devotee who had been kindly entreated 
by Parizade, told her the house she lived 
in wanted three things to make it per- 
fect: (1) the talking bird, (2) the sinjing 
tree, and (3) the qold-coloured water, 
Her two brothers went to obtain these 
treasures, but failed. Parizade then went, 
and succeeded. The sultan paid them a 
visit, and the talking bird revealed to 
him the story of their birth and bringing 
up. When the sultan heard the infamous 
tale, he commanded the two sisters to be 
put to death, and Parizadeé, with her two 

rothers, were then proclaimed the lawful 
children of the sultan. —Arubian Niyhts 
(The Two Sisters,” the last story). 

*.* The story of Chery and Fairstar, 
by the comtes-e D' Aunoy, is an imita- 
tion of this tale: and introduces the 
‘orreen bird,” the ‘singing apple,” 
and the ‘dancing: water.” 


Parley. ‘If ve parlev with the foe, 
yowre lost.’"—Arden of Feversham, ur. 2 
(1502) 5 recast by Geo. Lillo (1739). 


Parley (Iter), Samuel Griswold Good- 
rich, an American. Above seven millions 
of his books were in circulation in 1859 
(1793-1860). 

*.* Several pirac.es of this popular 
name have appeared, Thus, S. Nettell of 
Ancrica pirated the name in order to sell 
under false colours: Darton and Co. issued 
aleter Parlev’s Angee! (1841-1855); Sim- 
kins, a Peter Parleyv's Lifeof Paud (1845) ; 


PAROLi.KS. 





ete. (1844) ; Tegg, several works under 
the same name ; Hodson, a Peter Parlev's 
Bille Geoyraphy (1839) ; Clements, a Peter 
Parlev's Child's First Step (1839). None 
of which works were by Goodrich, the 
real ‘‘ Peter Parley.” 

William Martin was the writer of 
Darton's ‘‘ Peter Parley series.” Geo 
Mogridge wrote several tales under +. 
name of Peter Parley. How far such 
‘‘false pretences” are justifiable, public 
opinion must decide. 


Parliament (The Black), a parlia- 
ment held by Henry VII. in Bridewell. 

(For Addled parliament, Barebone's 

rliament, the Devil's parliament, the 

runken parliament, the Good parlia- 
ment, the Long parliament, the Mad 
parliament, the Pensioner parliament, 
the Rump parliament, the Running par- 
liament, the Lomerciful parliament, the 
Useless parliament, the Wonder-making 
parliament, the parliament of Dunces, 
see Jiictionary of Phrase and Fable, 657.) 


Parnassus (in Greek Parnassos), 
the highest part of a range of mountains 
north of Delphi, in Greece, chief seat of 
Apollo and the Muses. Called by poets, 
‘*double-headed,” from its two highest 
summits, Zitidér'@a and Lycoré’a. On 
Lycores was the Corycian cave, and 
hence the Muses are called the Corycian 
nymphs. 

Conquer the severe ascent 
Of high Parnassus. 
Akenaide, Plassures of Imagination, |. (1748). 

Parnassus of Japan, Fusiyama (‘ neb 
scholar’s peak "’).—Gibson, Gallery of 
Geoyraphy, 921 (1872). 


Parnelle (Jidc.), the mother of Mon. 
Orvon, and an ultra-admirer of Tartuffe, 
whem she looks on as a saint. In the 
adaptation of Moliere’s comedy by Isaac 
Bickerstat¥, Mde. Parnelle is called ‘ uld 
ladv Lambert ;” her son, ‘‘sir John Lame 
bert ;" and Tartuffe, ‘Dr. Cantwell.”— 
Moliere, Zurtugfe (1664); Bickerstaff, Zhe 
MM pocrite (176%), 

*,* The Nonyuror, by Cibber (1706), 
was the quarry of Bickerstaff’s play. 


Parody (futher of), Hipro’nax of 
Ephesus (sixth century B.c.). 


Parolles (3 syi.), a boastful 
cowardly follower of Bertram count ol 
Rousiilon. Ilis utterances are racy 
enough, but our contempt for the man 
smothers our mirth, and we cannot laugh, 
In one scene the bully is taken blindfold 


Bogue, a Peter Parley’s Vist to Londun, | among his old acquaintances, wha he 








PARTHENOPEAN REPUBLIC. 


—— —_ 


7385 





PASSAMONTE. 





Parthenope'an Republic, Naples 
(1799). 


Partington (J/rs.), an old lady of 
amusing affectations and ridiculous blun- 
ders of speech. Sherndan's ‘‘ Mrs. Mala- 
prop” and Smollett’s ‘* Tabitha Bramble" 
are similar characters.—H. P. Shillaber 
(an American humorist). 


I do nol mora to be dlareepectiol; bot the attempt of 
he lords to top the progres of reform reniinds me very 
forcibly of the great eturm of Bhimouth. nul the eondact 
of the oxerllent Mra. Partington on that oceadon. In the 
winter of (834, there set in a great Bom! upon Uhal town ; 
the tide rose to an Inerediide belght; the waves rebel in 
upon the boos; and everything was threatened with 
destruction. In the midat of this sublime sterm, Done 
Partingtou, whe Ileal upon the beach, wna seen af the 
dour of her hose with mop and patterns, trandilng her 
mop, squerilic cul the sea-water, aid vigorously pushing 
away the Atlanil: Gireui, The Aflaiitic Was roused > Mra 
Partiugtow ¢ adrift wae up; bot | need et tell you that 
the contest wna tintsyqual, The Atliuuthe beat Mra Port- 
ington. She wos enrellent at odlop or paddle, but showld 
pever have meliled with & tompent. — @piney Builth 
(speech af Miiiuitwni, LAI), 

Partlet, the hen, in “The Nun's 
Priest's Tule," and in the famous beaat- 
epic of He ynard the For (1498),—Chaucer, 
Cunterbury Liles (188). 

Sister Partiet with her hooded head, the 
cloistered community of nuns; the 
Roman (Cathelic clergy being the “ barn- 
door fowls,."—LDryden, find and Panther 
(1687). 

Partridge, Talus was changed into 
a partricdyre. 

Partridje, cobbler, quack, astrologer, 
and aliianac-omker (died 1708), Dean 
Swift wrote an elegy on lim. 

Here, five feet deey, lira on like back, 
A cobler, etarmmHicet, find quack, 
Whe, bo the ature bin pairs pose willl, 
Dhas toe his bert look igen ei. 
Weep all yee customers tht use 

Hie pills, bie abies, oF chore, 

Partredjc, the attendant of Tom Jomes, 
ax Strap is of Socllett’s “* Redenck Ran- 
dom.” Faithful, ehrewi, and of child-like 
simplicity. le is half barber and half 
achooluinster, His excitement in the 
play-house when he went to see Garrick 
in “Hamlet is charming. — Fielding, 
The History of Tran Jones (1744), 


fhe huniair il Frrllert, althovigh whine mel hhemurty 
fs conre andl cilcmr, He we mp where Fielding 
showed deep jimiziit; but he hed & hide Gincepihen 
generosity which Flebling eine licapsble. Ti owing 
to this thal “ Sinip™ wi euperkor to Mertriden”—Haliet, 
Curnie W rilrrs. 


Partridge’s Day (Snnf), September 
1, the fret day of partridge shouting. 
So Airust 12 is called “St, Grouse’s 
Day.” 

Parvenue. One of the O'Neals, 
being told that Thurrett of Costlemone had 
only been 400 years in Ireland, replied, 


“*] hate the upstart, which can only look 
back to yesterday.” 

Parviz (‘‘cictorious"), surname of 
Khosrou IT. of Persia. He kept 15,000 
female musicians, 6000 household officers, 
20,00 anddle-mules, 960 elephants, 200 
slaves to scatter perfumes when he went 
abroad, and 100 seknbers to water the 
roads before him. Tlis horse, Shibdiz, 
was called ‘‘the Persian Bucephilos.” 

The reigns of Khoerou I. and IJ. were 
the golden period of ]‘ersian history, 


Parzival, the hero and title of a metri- 
cal romance, by Wolfram v. Eschenbach, 
Parzival was brought up by a widowed 
mother in solitude, but when grown to 
manhood, two wandering knights per- 
sunded him to go to the court of king 
Arthur, Ifis mother, hoping to deter 


| him, consented to his going if he would 


wear the dress of a common jester. This 
he did, but soon achieved such noble 
deeds that Arthur made him a knight 
of the Round Table. Sir Parzival went 
in quest of the holy graal, which was 
kept in a magnificent castle called Granl- 
burg, in Spain, built by the royal priest 
Titurel. He reached the castle, but 
having neglected certain conditions, was 
shut out, and, on his return to court, the 
= of Graal-burg insisted on hia 
ing expelled the court and degraded 
from knighthood. Parzival then led a 
new life of abstinence and self-abnega- 
tion, and a wise hermit became his in- 
atructor, At length he reached such a 
state of purity and sanctity that the 
priestess of Graal-burg declared hin 
worthy to become lord of the castle 
(1205). 
*,” This, of course, is an allegory of 
a Christian giving up everything in order 
to be admitted a priest and king in the 
city of (rod, and becoming a fool in order 
to learn true wisdom (see 1 Cor. tii. 18). 
Pasquin, a Roman cobbler of the 
latter half of the fifteenth century, whose 
shop stood tn the neighbourhood of the 
Hraschi palace near the Piazza Navoni. 
He was noted for his caustic remarks and 
bitter sayings. After his death, a muti- 
lated statue near the shop was called by 
his name, and made the repository of ail 
the bitter epigranis and satirical verses of 
the city ; hence called pasquinades (3 syl.). 
Aly Acchy A rcn—the cmon Paaqule of the (own, 
—O. Macklin, Loew d-fa-rudie, L 1 (LTT. 
Fey 
& fe- 


Passamonte ( (fines de), the 
slave set free by don Quixote. 
turned the favour by stealing Sancho's 








PATAMBA. 


that these foot-prints were duc to a 
arge clumsy shoe worn by the natives. 
and were not the impressions of naked 
feet. 


Patam’ba, 4 city of the Az’tecas, 
south of Missouri, utterly destroyed by 
earthquake and overwhelmed. 

The tempest is nbroad. Fierce from the north 
A q@ind uptears the inke, whose lowest depths 
Rock. while convulsions shake the solid earth. 
Where is Patamba?. . . The mighty Inke 
Hath burst its bounds, and yon wide valley roara, 
A troubled sea, before the rulling storm. 

Southey, Madoe (1805). 

Patch, the clever, intriguing waiting- 
woman of Isabinda daughter of sir 
Jealous Traffick. As she was handing a 
love-letter in cipher to her mistress, she 
let it fall, and sir Jealous picked it up. 
He could not read it, but insisted on 
knowing what it meant. ‘‘ Oh,” cried the 
ready wit, ‘‘it is a charm for the tooth- 
ache!" and the suspicion of sir Jealous 
was diverted (act iv. 2).—Mrs. Centlivre, 
The Busy Body (1709). 


Patch (Clause), king of the begrars. 
He died in 1730, and was succeeded by 
Bampfylde Moore Carew. 


Patche (1 sy/.), cardinal Wolsey’s 
jester. When the cardinal felt his favour 
giving way, he sent Patche as a gift to 
the king, and Henry VIII. considered 
the gift a most acceptable one. 


We call one Patche or Cowlson, whom we see to do a 
thing foolish!y, Secause Uiese two tn their time were 
notable fuol. —Wilson, Art af Khetorique (1553). 


Patched-up Peace (Zhe), a treaty 
of peace between the duc d'Orléans and 
John of Burgundy (1409). 

*,* Sometimes the treaty between 
Charles LX. and the hucuenvts, concluded 
at Lonygjumeau in 156%, is so called (La 
Puc kuurrec), 


Patelin (2 syl.), the hero of an 
ancient French comedy. He contnves 
to obtain on credit six ells of cloth from 
William Jossenume, by artfully praising 
the tradesman's father. Any subtle, 
crafty fellow, who entices by flattery 
and insinuating arts, is called a Patelin. 
—P. Blanchet, L'Avocat J’atelin (1499- 
1519). 


Ou lu cttritue, mais & tort, ln farce de L'A zorat Putelin, 
qui ext plus ancienne qve jul. — Buulllet, Dictionary 
C niversel Dd Mistusre, ctc., wit. ** Blanchet.” 

Consider, or, I pray you. Low the uoble Patelin, having 
Anond toe |tethe tint ceavens the father of William 
Jos eqaume, aod no more Cian this. be did lend his goods 
freely to those who were desiruus of them. —Habelais, 
Pat ores ca & 1905). 


*,° D. A. de Irueys reproduced this 
eomedy in 1706. 





PATRIARCAS. 


Pater Patrum. St. Gregory of 
Nyssa is so called by the .council of 
Nice (332-395). 


Paterson (Pate), serving-boy to 
Bryce Snailsfoot the pedlar.—Sir W. 
Scott, Tie irate (time, William IIJ.). 


Pathfinder (Thc), Natty Bumppo; 
also called ‘‘The Deerslayer,” ‘* The 
Hawk-eye,” and “The Trapper."— 
Fenimore Cooper (five novels called The 
Pathfinder, The Pioneers, The Deerslayer, 
The Lust of the Mohicans, and The 
Prairie. 

Pathfinder of the Rocky 
Mountains (Jie), major-general John 
Charles Fremont, who conducted four 
exploring expeditions across the Rocky 
Mountains in 1842. 


Patience and Shuffle the 
Cards. 

In the mean time, as Durandarté says in the cave of 
pontest’nos, * Patience and shufSe the cards.”—Lord 

Patient Griselda or Grisildis, 
the wife of Wauticr marquis of Salucés. 
Boccaccio says she was a poor country 
lass, who became the wife of Gualtiere 
marquis of Saluzzo. She was robbed of 
her children by her husband, reduced to 
abject poverty, divorced, and commanded 
to assist in the marriage of her husband 
with another woman ; but she bore every 
affront patiently, and without complaint, 
—Chaucer, Cunterbury Tales (‘‘ The 
Clerk's Tale,” 1388); Boccaccio, De- 
cameron, x. 10 (1352). 

The tale is allegorical of that text, 
“The Lord gave, and the Lord hath 
taken away ; blessed be the name of the 
Lord” (Jud i. 21). 

Patient Man. “ Beware the fury 
of apatient man.”—Dryden, Absalom and 
Achituphel, i. (1081). 


Patin, brother of the emperor of 
Rome. He fights with Amadis of Gaul, 
and has his horse killed under him.— 
Vasco de Lobeira, Ainadis of Gaud (thir- 
tecnth century). 

Patison, iicensed jester to sir Thos. 
More. Hans Holbein has introduced 
this jester in his famous picture of the 
lord chancellor. 

Patriarch of Dorchester, Jcha 
White of Dorchester, a puritan divine 
(1574-1648). 

Patriarchs (The Last of the). Se 
Christopher Casby of Bleeding-heart 

3B 











PATTEN. 


Adriel, the Muse's friend, himself a 
Muse," but by those who loved him less, 
“the modern Midas.” Books without 
number were dedicated to him, and the 
writers nidressed him as the “ British 
Follio, Atticus, the Mweénas of Eng- 
land, protector of arts, paragon of poeta, 
arbiter of taste, and sworn appraiser of 
Apollo and the Muses." The plot is very 


simple: Sie Thomas Lofty has written a | 


‘av called Hobinson Crusoe, and gets 
Richard Hever to stand godfather to it, 
The play is damned past redemption, 
and, to soothe Hever, sir Thomas allows 
him to marry his niece Juliet. 

Horace Walpole, earl of Orford, is the 
original of “sir Thomas Lofty" (1v1/- 
1797). 


Patten, according to Gay, is 90 called 
frem Tatty, the pretty daughter of a 
Lincolnshire farmer, with whom the 
village blackamith fellin love. To save 
her from wet feet when she went to milk 
the cows, he mounted ber clogs on an 
iron eke. 

The patten now eopporte each frogal dame, 
Which from the blue-eyed Palty ake it noma 
lay, Frida, |, (1712). 

(Of course, the word is the French 

ain, ‘*a skate or high-heeled shoe," 
ron the Greek, putein, “to walk,") 


Puttieson nr Peter), in the intro- 
duction of Tie Heart of Midlothian, by sir 
W. Sevtt, and again in the introduction 
of The Aral of Jammermoor, Ile is a 
bypothetica) assistant teacher at Gander- 
cleuch, and the feigned author of The 
Jules of My Lanford, which sir Walter 
Seitt pretends were pubished by Jede- 
diah Cleishbutham, after the death of 
Pattieson. 


Patty, “the maid of the miil,” 
dauchter of Fairfield the miller, She 
wis lireught up by the mother of lord 
Aimwerth, and was prmdaed by her 
father i iarriage to Farmer Guiles; but 
ele tefused te marry lim, and became 
the bride of loml Aimworth. Patty was 
very clever, very pretty, very ingennous, 
and lowed lis lordslup to aderation,— 
Hickerstaff, The Maid of the Mil (1765), 


Pattypan (J/rs.), a widow who 
keeps lelyings, and makes lowe to Tim 
‘Tartht, to whom she ia ultimately en- 
paged, 

By all arrgyts, che ly joel oa loving now os che waa 


Hiny peor agu.—J ome Cobb, Tee Foret Fleer, L 
Pe tLe), 


Patullo (J/rs.), waiting-woman to | 


789 


PAUL. 


lady Ashton.—Sir W. Scott, Bride of 
Lanmermoor (time, William IIT.), 


Pau-Puk-Keewis, 9 cunning mis 
chief-maker, who taught the North 
American Indians the game of hazard, and 
stripped them by his winnings of all 
their possessions. Jn a mad freak, Pan- 


| Puk-Keewisa entered the Wigwam of 
| Hiawatha, and threw everything ito 


confusion; so Hiawatha resolved to slay 
him. Pau-Puk-Keewis, taking to flight, 
prayed the beavers to make him a beaver 
ten times their own size. This they did ; 
but when the other beavers made their 
escape at the arrival of Hiawatha, Pau- 
Puk-Keewis was hindered from getting 
away by his great size; and Hiawatha 
slew him. His spirit, escaping. flew 
upwards, and prayed the storm-fools to 
make him a ** brant” ten times their own 
size. This was done, and be waa told 
never to look downwarda, or he would 
lose his life. When Hiawatha arrived, 
the “brant” could not forbear looking 
at him; and immediately he fell to 
earth, and [Tliawatha transformed him 
into an eayrle, 

Now in winter, when the anowfakes 

Whirl in evidees round the beige... 

© There,” they cry, “ comes Pau-Puk-Keewls; 

Ei benidee ors 

: Lougfellow, Hiawatha, xvil (1855), 


Paul, the love-child of Margaret, who 
retired to port Louis, in the Mauritius, 
to bury herself, and bring up her only 
child. Hither came Mde. de la Tour, a 
widow, and was confined of a daughter, 
whom she named Virginia. Between 
these neighbours a mutual friendship 
arose, and the two children became play- 
mates, As they grew in years, their 


| fondness for each other developed into 


love. When Virginia was 14, her 
mother's aunt adopted her, and begged 
sie might be sent to France to finish 
her education. She was above two years 
in Frmnee; and as she refused to marry a 
count of the “aunt's” providing, she 
was disinherited, and sent back to her 
mether, When within a cable'a length 
of the island, a hurricane dashed the 
ship to pieres, and the deal body of 
Virginia was thrown upon the shore, 
Poul drooped from grief, and within two 
months followed her to the grve.— 
Bernardin de St. Pierre, Pawl ef Virgina 


| (17s). 


In Cobb's dramatic version, Tanl’s 
mother (Margaret) is made a faithful 
domestic of Virginia's parents. Viryinia’s 








PAULINE. 741 





PEACE. 





creditors. Weing convinced that Pauline 
really loved him, Claude paid the moncy 
required, and claimed the lady as his 
loving und grateful wife.—Lord L. B. 
Lytton, The Lady of Lyons (1838), 


Pawine (Mademoiselle) or Mowxwa 
Pavi.a, the attendant of lady Erminia 
Pauletti the goldsmith's ward.—Sir W. 
The Furtunes of Neyel (time, James 


Pauli'nus of York christened 10,000 
men, besides women and their children, 
in one single day in the Swale. (Al- 
together some 60,000 souls, Le. LO4 every 
minute, 6250 every hour, supposing he 
worked eight hours without stopping.) 

When the Guxons first received the Christina faith, 
Panlinus of ok) Vor‘, the sealous blehoy then, 
Io @wrale’s abort steam christened ten thon man, 
With women ail thelr bulws, a Huniber tiore Leeda, 
Upon ove happy day. 
Dryian, Polpolidiom, srvill, (1622), 

Paulo, the cardinal, and brother of 
count Guido Franeeschi'ni. He advised 
the count to repair his bankrupt fortune 
by marrying an heiress.—K. Browning, 
The Bing und the Book. 


Paupiah, the Hinlii steward of the 
British governor of Myyilras.—Sir W, 
Scou, Jie Surycon's Duwyiter (time, 
George LI.). 


Pausa'nias (Tie Sritish), William 
Caniden (1551-1625). 

Bome village Catden that with danities breast 

The Wtthe ty) mits of the held withstenl, 

firny, Ategy (17-40). 

Pauvre Jacques. When Marie 
Antoinette had her artificial Swiss village 
in the '* Little Tnanes," a Swiss girl wos 
brousht over to heighten the illusion. 
She was obeerved tu pine, and was heard 
to sich out, panrre Fimeal This little 
romance plensed the queen, who sent for 


Jace wes, Amd pave tie es a wedding | 


iwness de Tra- 


portion; while the miuare 
yenet wrote the sone called Jauere 


digues, Which erented at the time quite | 


BaAéclcaition, ‘Die tiret and List versés run 


tus: 

Route Joanie, quand fetale prea de ool 
ee ee i 

Mais & priori que tu vba bop le el, 
Je Huiiep lit dhe tl aor la bere 

Tver Jack, while | wm ment fo thee, 
Thi yor, teh Lilie tire Uni deap ell g 

Bat ton thet) dwell ob Lor froin tit, 
Tlie wurkd apace liriieeciine Vidal, 


Pa'via (Jidtle of). Francois I. of 
France is saul to have written to his 
mother these words after the loss of thia 


tattle: “Madame, tout est perdu hors | 





Vhonneur;" but what he really wrote 
was: “Madame. . . de toutes choses ne 
m'est demeuré pas que l'honneur et la 
V1 " 

: did with a noble dege rewnlied Paria took, 

Drayton, Pol yelbien, xwilh (1803) 

Pavilion of prince Ahmed. 
This pavilion was so small that it might 
be beld and covered by the hand, and 
yet so large when pitched that a wholo 
army could encamp beneath it. Its size, 
however, was elastic, being alwara pro- 

rtionate to the army to be covered b 
it.—Araban Nights (““ Ahmed and Pari- 
Banou "). 

Pavillon (Mcinkeer Hermann), the 
syndic at Litge [toi ; 

Mother Mabel Pavillon, wife of mein- 
heer Hermann. 

Trudchen or Gertrude Pavillon, their 
danghter, betrothed to Ilans Glover.—Sir 
W. Scott, Quentin Durward (time, 
Edward IV.). 


Pawkins (Jfsjor),a huge, heavy man, 
“one of the most remarkable of the age.” 
He was o prreat i at and great p 
triot, but generally under a cloud, whelly 
owing to his distinguished genius for 
bold speculations, not to say ‘* swindling 
schemes.” Ilis creed was ‘“‘to run 
moist pen slick throuch everything, and 
start afresh.”"—C. Dickens, Martin Chuz- 
atewit (1844). 

Pawnbrokers’ Balls. Every one 
knows that these balls are the arma of 
the Medici family, but it is not so well 
known that ther refer to an exploit of 
Avernrdo de Medici, a commander under 
Charlemagne, ‘This bold warrior slew 
the ciant Mugello, whose club he bore as 
a trophy. This mace or club had three 
iron bulls, which the family adopted as 
their device.—Koscoe, Life of Lorenzo 
de Medici (1790). 

Paynim Harper (Jie), referred to 
by Tennyson in the Last Tournament, 
was Urpheus. 

Sedne, goats, fume, And) po 
Troopod round a payne Darper onee, . 2 « 
Theil Were belies, Goals, As, Heres 
The wiser fools, welng thy payilis bed 
That be cod harp ‘sts wife wp out of hell 
Tennyem, The Last Tournauerst (1835). 

Peace (/'rince cf), don Manuel Godoy, 
born at Badajoz. So culled because he 
eoncluded the “* peace of Liasle” between 
the French and Spanish nations in 1795 
(1767-1851). 

Peave (The Father of), Andrea Doria 
(1463-1560), 








PEDANT. 





748. PEEPING TOM OF COVENTRY. 





is pretty and true-hearted ; though flippant 
and foolish as a girl, she becomes greatly 
toned down bv the troubles of her married 
life.—C. Dickens, Martin Chuzslewit 
(1843). 


Pedant, an old fellow set up to per- 
sonate Vincentio in Shakespeare's comedy 
ealled The Taming of the Shrew (1695). 


Péedre (Don), a Sicilian nobleman, 
who has a Greek slave of creat beauty, 
named Isidore (3 syl.). This slave is 
loved by Adraste (2 sy/.), a French 
gentleman, who gains access to the house 
under the guise of a portrait-painter. 
He next sends his slave Zaide to com- 
plain to the Sicilian of ill-treatment, and 
don Pédre volunteers to intercede on her 
behalf. At this moment Adraste comes 
up, and demands that Znide be given op 
to deserved chastizement. Pedre pleads 
for her, Adruste appears to be pacified, 


and Pédre calls for Zaide to come forth, | 


Isidore, in the veil of Zaide, comes out, 
and Pédre says, ‘* There, take her home, 
and use her well.” ‘‘ 7 will do so,” says 
Adrste, and leads off the Gireck slave.— 
Molitre, Le Sicilien ou L'Amour FPeintre 
(1667). 

Pedrillo, the tutor of don Juan. 
After the shipwreck, the men in the boat, 
being wholly without provisions, cast lots 
to know which should be killed as food 
for the rest, and the lot Pell op Pedrillo, 
but those who feasted on him 
ravenously went mad. 

Hie totor, the licentiats Perils, 
Whe several languages did onderetand. 
Byron, Jen Juan, 1 2s oe 7670 (1818). 

Pe'dro, “the pilgrim,” a noble gentle- 
man, servant to Alinda (daughter of lord 
Alphonso).—Beaumont and Fletcher, The 
Pilyrun (lH2T). 

Pedra (Don), prince of Aragon. -- 
Shakespeare, Jweh Ado about Nuthing 
(1600), 

Pedro (Fon), father of Leonora,—R. 
Jephson, Dice Strings to your Bow (1792), 


most 


Pedro (fim), a Portuguese nobleman, 
father of donna Viclante.—Mrs. Cent- 
livre, The Wonder (1714), 

Pedro (Pr.), whose full name was Dr. 
Pedro Rezio de Aguero, court physician 
in the island of Ibirataria, He carried a 
whalebone rod in hie hand, and whenever 
any dish of food was set before Sancho 
Panza the governor, he touched it with 
his wand, that it might be instantly re- 
moved, as unfit for the governor to eat, 





Partridges were ‘forbidden by FHippoc’- 
rates,” olla ridas were ‘‘most per- 
nicious,” rabbits were ‘‘a sharp-haired 
diet,” veal might not be touched, but ‘‘a 
few wafers and a thin slice or two of 
quince” might not be harmfal. 


The governor, being served with some beef hashed with 
onions, . . . fell to with more avidity than if he bad been 


et down to Milan godwita, Roman pheasants, Sorrente 
veal, Moron purtridges, 


turning to Dr. Pedro, td ge sama rival ag nrg 
| want wo dulnties, ... for I heve been always used 
beef, bacon, pork, turnips, and onions ”—Cervantes, Dew 
Qudeote, I]. Ll. 10, 18 (1618). 

Peebles (Peter), the pauper litigant. 
He is vain, Vicigiocs, hard-hearted, and 
credulous; aliar,adrunkard, anda pauper. 
His ‘‘canging plea” is Hogarthian comic. 
—Sir W. Scott, Redyauntlet (time, George 
1II.). 


Peecher (Hiss), a schoolmistress, in 
the Hat country where Kent and Surre 
meet. ‘Small, shining, neat, miathodical, 
and buxom was Miss Peecher; cherry- 
cheeked and tuneful of voice. A little 
pincushion, a little hussif, a little book 
a little work-box, a little set of tables and 
weights and measures, and a little woman, 
all in one. She could write a little essay 
on any subject exactly a slate long, and 
strictly necordingtorule. If Mr. Bradley 
Headstone had proposed marriage to ber, 
ehe would certainly have replied ‘ yes, 
for she loved him;” but Mr. Headstone 


| did not lowe Miss Peecher—he loved Lizzie 


Ilexam, and had no love to spare for any 


| other woman.—C. Dickens, Our Mutual 


friend, ii. | (1864). 


Peel-the-Causeway (Old), a 
emugeler.—Sir W. Scott, Redyauntlet 


| (time, George III.). 


Peeler (Sir), any crop which greatly 
impoverishes the ground. To peel is to 
impoverish soil, as ‘oats, rye, barley, 
and grey wheat,” but not peas (xxxiil. 51). 

Wheat doth not well, 
Mor wer sir Peeler he loveth to dwell, 
T. Tuser, Five Hundred Points of 
Husbandry, xviii. 12 (1587) 

Peelers, the constabulary of Ireland, 
appointed under the Peace Preservation 
Act of 1814, proposed by sir Robert Peel. 
The name was subsequently given to the 
new police of England, who are also called 
** Hoblnes from sir Robert Peel. 

Feep-o Day Boys, Irish insap 
genta of 1784, who prowled about at day- 
break, searching for arms. 


Peeping Tom of Coventry. 
Lady (:odiva eamestly besought her hus- 
band (Leofric earl of Mercia) to relieve 





PEGGY. 745 


exertion after she was dressed, some of the buttous on the 
back uf her gown flew off.—Ch. iL 


Panel Peygotty, brother of David 
Copperfield’s nurse. Dan'el was a Yar- 
mouth fisherman. His nephew Ham 
Pegyotty, and his brother-in-law’s child 
“little Em'ly,” lived with him. Dan'el 
himself was a bachelor, and a Mrs. Gum- 
midge (widow of his late partner) kept 
house forhim. Dan’el Peggotty was most 
tender-hearted, and loved little Em'ly 
with all his heart. 

Ham Peyqotty, nephew of Dan’el Peg- 
otty of Yarmouth, and son of Joe, 
Yan‘el's brother. Ham was in love with 

little Em'ly, daughter of Tom (Dan’s 
brother-in-law) ; but Steerforth stepped 
in between them, and stole Em'ly away. 
Ham Peggotty is represented as the very 
beau-ideal of an uneducated, simple- 
minded, honest, and warm-hearted fisher- 
man. He was drowned in his attempt to 
rescue Steerforth from the sea. 

Em'ly Peqqotty, daughter of Dan’s 
brother-in-law Tom. She was engaged 
te Ham Pegyotty ; but being fascinated 
with Steerforth, ran off with him. She 
was afterwards reclaimed, and emigrated 
to Australia with Dan'el and Mrs. Gum- 
mide.—C. Dickens, Ducid Copperfield 
(1849). 


Peggy, grandchild of the old widow 
Maehive a covenanter.— Sir W. Scott, 
Vld Mort vity (time, Charles IT.). 


Peyjy, the laundry-maid of colonel 
Mannering at Woodburne.—Sir W. Scott, 
Guy Mannering (time, George IT.). 


Peggy [Thrift , the orphan daugh- 
ter of sir Thomas Thrift of Hampshire, 
and the ward of Moody, who brings her 
upin perfect seclusion in the country. 
When Moody is 50 and Peggy 19, the 
guardian tries to marry her; but ‘the 
country yirl” outwits him, and marries 
Helville, a young man of more suitable 
ave. Peyey calls her guardian ‘ Bud.” 
She is very simple but sharp, ingenuous 
but crafty, lively and = girlish. — The 
Country Girl (Garrick, altered from 
Wvceherly’s Country Wife, 1675). 

Mra Jontan (1763-1816) made her first a nee in 
Londun at Drury Lane in 1755. The ¢ ter ahe 
selected was *' Peury.” her cuc.ess was Iminediate, her 
@lary doubled, and ahe was allowed two benefita —W, C, 
Rusell, Lapresentatire Actors. 

Pegler (Hrs.), mother of Josiah 
Bounderby, Esy., banker and mill-owner, 
called The Bully of Humility.” The 
aon allows the old woman £30 a year to 
keep out of sight.—C. Dickens, Hard 
Times (1854). 

32 








ee ee ee Teme, 


PELLEAS. 

Pek’uah, the a:tendant of princess 
Nekayah, of the “happy valley." She 
accompanied the princess in her wander- 
ings, but refused to enter the great 
pyramid, and, while the princess was 
exploring the chambers, was carried off 
by some Arabs. She was afterwards 
ransomed for 200 ounces of gold.—Dr. 
Johnson, Rasselas (1759). 


Pelay’o (Prince), son of Feavil’a, 
founder of the Spanish monarchy after 
the overthrow of Roderick last of the 
Gothic kings. He united, in his own 
person, the royal lines of Spain and of 
the Goths. 


or In him the old Iberian blood, 
From undisputed source, flowed undefiled ... 
He, too, of Chindasuintho's Une 


Sole remnant now, drew after the love 
Of all true Goths 
Southey, Rederick, efe., vill (1814) 


Pelham, the hero of a novel by lord 
Lytton, entitled Pelham or The Adven- 
tures of a Gentleman (1828). 


Pelham (df.), one of the many aliases 
of sir R. Phillips, under which he pub- 
lished The Parent's and Tutor’s First 
Catechism. In the preface he calls the 
writer authoress. Some of his other 
names are Rev. David Blair, Rev. C. C. 
Clarke, Rev. J. Goldsmith. 


Pe'lian Spear (The), the lance of 
Achillés which wounded and cured Te’- 
lephos. So called from Peleus the father 
of Achillés. 

Such was the cure the Arcadian bero found— 

The Pelian spear that wounded, made him sound. 

Ovid, Remedy af Love. 

Peli’des (3 syl.), Achillés, son of 
Peleus (2 syi.), chief of the Greek 
warriors at the siege of Troy.—ILomer, 


Iliad. 
When, like Pelidés, bold beyond control, 
Homer raised high ty heaven the loud impetuous song, 
Beattlo, The Minstrel (1773-4). 
Pe'lion (‘‘ mud-sprunj"), one of the 
frog chieftains. 
A spear at Pelion, Troglod cast 
Areata dss fe ont 
And life's red tide ruas ebbing from the wound. 
Parnell, Battle af the Frogs and Mice, lil. (abvut 1718), 
Pell (Solomon), an attorney in the 
Insolvent Debtors’ court. He has the 
very highest opinions of his own merifs, 
and by his aid Tony Weller contrives to 
get his eon Sam sent to the Fleet for debt, 
that he may be near Mr. Pickwick to 
protect and wait upon him.—C. Dickens, 
The Pickwick Papers (1836). 


Pelleas (Sir), lord of many isles, and 





me ee 


PENDENNIS. 


from beginning to end with one pen, and 
hence he himself wrote: 


With ong sole pen I writ this book, 
Made of o grey giee-quill ; 

A pen it wae when li I took, 
And a peo | leave it still, 


Pendennis (ArtAur), psendonym of 


W. Mz. Thackeray in The Newcomes 
(1854). 
Pendennis, a novel by Thackeray 


(1849), in which much of his own history 
and experience is recorded with a nove- 
list’slicence, /endennis stands in relation 
to Thackeray as David Copperfield does to 


Charles Dickens. 


Arthur Pendennis, a young man of | 
ardent feelings and lively intellect, but | 


self-conceited and selfish, He has oa 
keen sense of honour, and a capacity for 
loving, but altogether he is mot an at- 
tractive character. 

faura Mendennis, Thie ia one of the 
lest of Thackeray's characters. 

Majur Pendennis, 
fawns on his patrons for the sake of 
welving himeelf 


ally in munthly parts, beginning 1849. 


Pendrag’on, probably a tithe menn- 
ing ‘‘ehief leader in war." Dragon ia 
Welsh for a * leader in war,” and pen for 
“head” or “chief.” The title was given 
to Uther, brother of Constana, and father 
of prince Arthur. Like the word *‘ Pha- 
righ," it is used as & proper name with- 
ont the article, le.—Ueoft rey of Monmouth, 
Caron., vi. (1142). 

Ones T read, 
That steat Peridragon In hie litter, wel, 
Gane to thee flak, mtd munguiahddl bile fom, 
Shakespeare, 1 Seory VJ, act lil a 8 (15m), 

Penel'ope’s Web, a work that 
never progresses. Penelope, the wife of 
Livases, being importunated by several 
suitors during her hasband’s long ub- 
sence, Made reply that she could not 
marry avain, even if Ulysses were dead, 
till she had finished weaving a shroud 
for her aged father-in-law, Every night 
she pulled out whet she had woven 
during the day, and thus the shroud 
Tine no prorress towards completion,— 
trrvek Mytholoyy. 


The French say of a work “never | 


enuliny, still beyinning,” 
fvnelope, 


Penel'ophon, the beggar loved by 
king Cophetus, Shakespeare calla the 
name Zenelophon in Love's Labour's 
Just, act iv. ac. 1 (1500).—Dercy, Ze- 
lngues, I, ia, 6 (1765). 


c'est louvraye de 


747 


a tuft-hunter, who | 


into their society,— | 
History of Lencdeuni«, peep origin- 








PENLAKE. 


Penelva (The Exploits and Adven- 
tures of), part of the series called Le 
Roman des Romans, pertaining to “* Am'- 
adis of Gaul.” ‘This part was added by 
an anonymous Portoguese (fifteenth cen- 
tury). 


Penfeather (Lady anh bean the 
lady patroness at Spa.—Sir 
St. Ronan's Well (time G George III. 5 it 


Pengwern (Tie Torch of), prince 
Gwenwyn of one laal ar BN Boo 
The Betrothed (time, Henry II.). 


Pengwinion (Ar.), from Cornwall ; 
a Jacohite consr Sa ahah Mr. Red- 


gauntlet.—Sir W. Scott, Aedgauntiet 
(time, George III.). 


Peninsular War (The), the war 
carmed on by sir Arthur Wellesley 
against Napoleon in Portugal and Spain 


| (1808-1814), 


seg as wrote a History of the Penin-~ 
sular War (1822-82). 


Penitents of Love (Fraternity of 
the), an institution established in Langue- 
doc in the thirteenth century, consisting 
of knights and eaquires, dames and 
damsels, whose object was to prove the 


excess of their love b bearing, with 
invincible constancy, the extremes of 
heat and cold. They pa the greater 


past of the day abroad, wandering about 
rom castle to castle, wherever they were 
summoned by the inviolable duties of 
loveand gallantry ; so that many of these 
devotees perished by the inclemency of 
the weather, and received the crown of 
martyrdom to ther profession. —Sec 
Warton, Afistory of Lnglish Poetry 
(1781). 


Pen'lake (fichard), a cheerful mai, 
both frank and free, but married to 
Kebecen ao terrible shrew. Rebecca 
knew if she once sat in St. Michael’s 
chair (on St. Michael's Mount, in Corn- 
wall), that she would rule her husband 
ever after; so she was very desirous of 

going to the mount, Jt so happened that 

ichard fell sick, and both vowed to 
give six marks to St. Michael if he re- 
covered. Richard did recover, and they 
visited the shrine; but while Richard 
was making the offering, Rebecca ran to 
seat herself in St. Michael's chair; but 
no wooner had she done so, than she fell 
from the chair, and waa killed in the 
fall.—Southey, St. Michael's 
ballad, 1798). 








PEOPLE. 


People (Man of the), 
Fox (1749-1806). 


mepin (Wiliam), a White friar and 
most famous preacher at the beginning 
of the sixteenth century. [lis sermons, 
in eight volumes quarto, formed the 
grand repertory of the preachers of those 
times. 

Qui nescit Pepinare, nescit pradicare.—Prover’, 

Pepper Gate, a gate on the east 


side of the city of Chester. It is said 
that the daughter of the mayor eloped, 





and the mayor ordered the oc to be 
closed. Hence the proverb, When your 
danyhter ts stolen, close Pep Gate ; or 


in other words, Lock the stable door when 
the steed ts stulen.—Albert Smith, CAris- 
topher Tadpole, i. 


Pepperpot (Sir Peter), a West 
Indian epicure, immensely rich, con- 
ceited, and irritable.—Foote, The Patron 
(174). 


Peppere. (See WHITE Horse or 
rik PEPPERS.) 


Peps (Dr. Parker), a court physician 
who attended the tirst Mrs. Dombey on 
her death-bed. Dr. Peps always gave his 
patients (by mistake, of course), a title, 
to impress them with the idea that his 
practice was exclusively contined to the 
upper ten thousand.—C. Dickens, Dumbey 
and Son (18-46). 


Perceforest (Ainqg), the hero of a 
prose romance ‘‘in Greek.” The MS. 
1x said to have been found by count 
William of Hainault in a cabinet at 
‘*Kurtimer” Abbey, on the Humber; 
and in the same cabinet was deposited a 
crown, Which the count sent to king 
Kdward. The MS. was tured into 
Latin by St. Landelain, and thence into 
French under the titleof La Tres Elegante 
Deiicwuse Mellijlue et Tres Paisunte Hys- 
ture du Tres Noble Roy DPerceforest 
(printed at Paris in 152%). 

(Of course, this pretended discovery is 
onl:; an invention. An analysis of the 
romance is given in Dunlop's History of 
Fiction.) 

He was called ‘‘ Perceforest” because 
he dared to pierce, almost alone, an en- 
chanted forest, where women and children 
were most evilly entreated. Charles 1X. 
of France waa especially fond of this 
romance. 


Perch, messenger in the house of 
Mr. Dombey, merchant, whom he adored, 
and piainly showed by his manner to the 


Charles James 





749 





PERDITA. 


great man: ‘‘ You are the light of my 


ee ™—"™“— ” |__|) 


eyes,” ‘* You are the breath of my soul. 
—C. Dickens, Dombey and Sun (1846). 
Perche Notary (A), a lawyer who 
sets people together by the ears, one 
who makes more quarrels than contracts. 
The French proverb is, Notaire du Perche, 
qui pusse plus d'échalliers que de contrat. 


boiste, 
champs sont entourée de 
certaines 


ouvertures 
pres & Passage aux piétons seulement, o que 
‘on nomme éehaliers.—Htiaire le Gat. 

Percinet, a fairy prince, in love with 
Graciosa. The prince succeeds in thwart- 
ing the malicious designs of Grognon, the 
step-mother of the lovely princess.— 
Percinet and Graciosa (a fairy tale). 


Percival (Sir), the third son of sir 
Pellinore king of Wales. His brothers 
were sir Aglavale and sir Lamorake 
Dornar, usually called sir Lamorake de 
Galis (Wales). Sir Tor was his half- 
brother. Sir Percival caught a sight of 
the holy yraal after his combat with 
sir Ector de Maris (brother of sir Launce- 
lot), and both were miraculously healed 
by it. Creétien de Troyes wrote the 
Roman de Perceval (before 1200), and 
Menessier produced the same story in a 
metrical form. (See PARZIVAL.) 


fr Percivale had a glimmering of the Sancgreall and of 
the inaiden that it, for 


ival, “ what ismean?”... “ weil, 
sir Ketor . .. ‘it is the holy vemel, wherein is a part of 
the holy blood of our hlesed Saviour; but if may not be 
seen but by a perfect man.”"—Pt fil 14. 

Sir Percival was with sir Bors ard sir 
Galahad when the visible Saviour went 
into the consecrated wafer which was 
given to them by the bishop. This is 
called the achicvement of the quest of 
the holy graal (pt. iii. 101, 102).—Sir 
T. Malory, Jfistury of Prince Arthur 
(1470). 

Percy Arundel lord Ashdal 
son of lady <Arundel by her secon 
husband. hot, fiery youth, proud and 
overbearing. When grown to manhood, 
a ‘‘sea-captain,” named Norman, made 
love to Violet, lord Ashdale’s cousin. 
The young ‘ Hotsprr” was indignant 
and somewhat jealous, but discovered 
that Norman was the son of lady Arundel 
by her tirst husband, and the heir to the 
title and estates. in the end, Norman 
agreed to divide the propert uall 
but claimed Violet fie hin) bide task 
Lytton, Zhe Sea-Cuptain (1839). 


Per'dita, the daughter of the qas 








PEREGRINE PICKLE. 


prig, who talks by the book. At the age 
of 15, he runs away from home, and Job 
Thornberry lends him ten guineas, ‘ the 
firet earnings of his trade as a brazier.” 
After thirty years’ absence, Peregrine re- 
turns, just as the old brazier is made 
a bankrupt ‘through the treachery of a 
friend.” He tells the bankrupt that his 
lean of ten yvuinens has by honest trade 
grown to 10,000, and these he returns to 
Thornberry as his own by right. It turns 
out that Peregrine is the eldest brother of 
sir Simon Rochdale, J.P., and when sir 
Simon refuses justice to the old brazier, 
Peregrine asserts his right to the estate, 
etc. At the same time, he hears that the 
ship he thought was wrecked has come 
safe into port, and has thus brought him 
£1(0),000,—G. Colman, junior, Join Bull 
(1805), 


Peregrine Pickle, the hero and 
title of a novel by Smollett (1751), Pere- 
grine Iwkle is a savage, ungrateful 
apemdthrift, fund of practical jokes, and 
eulfering with evil temper the misfortunes 
brought on himself by his own wilful- 
Has, 

Peregri'nus Proteus, a cynic phi- 
losopher, born at larium, on the Helles- 
pont. After a vouth spent in debauchery 
and crimes, he tarned Christian, and, to 
obliterate the memory of his youthful ill 
practices, divided his inheritance among 
the people. Ultimately he burned bim- 
self to death in public at the Olympic 
mmes, AD. 164. Tucan has held up this 
Immelation to ridicule in his Peuts of 
Perejrinus ; and C. M. Wieland bas an 
histeric romance in (rerman entitled 

‘ereyriaua Proteus (1733-18) a). 

Per’es (fril), a canon, and the eldest 
brother of tril [laa's mother. Gil was 
a little punchy man, three fect and o half 
hich, with his head sank between hia 
sliuhiers, He lived well, and broaght 


oy bis nephew and godchild Gil Blas. | 


“In se doing, Perea taught himself also 
ti rend his breviary without stumbling,” 
Ile was the mowt illiterate canon of the 
whole chapter, — Lesaye, Gil Blas, i. 
(1714). 

Perez (Michael), the ‘copper captain,” 
a brave Spanish soldier, duped into 
marrying Kxtifania, o servant of intrigue, 
who passed herself off as o lady of 
property. Heing reduced to great ex- 
treniitices, Estifanin pawned the clothes 
and valuables of her Siinband ; but these 
“valuables were but of litthe worth—a 
vewel which sparkled aoa the “light of o 


75t 








PERICLES PRINCE OF TYRE. 


dark lanthorn,” a “chain of whitings’ 
eyes" for pearls, and as for his clothes, 
she tauntingly says to ber husband : 
Put these and them [Ada jewels) on, ond you're a man né 
A wuneer, neseat capital a, 
: Beaumont aod Fletcher, wea Wife and 
Have a Wife (1), 

Perfidious Albion. Great Britain 

was 50 called by Napoleon I. 


Peri, plu. Peris, gentle, fairy-like 
beings of Eastern mythology, offspring 
of the fallen angels, and constituting a 
race of beings between angels and men. 
They direct with o wand the pure-minded 
the way to heaven, and dwell in Shadu’- 
kiam' a .d Am'bre-abad, two cities subject 
to Eblis, 

Aro the perles coming down from their epherea ? 
W. Deckford, Farhek (178i, 

Pe'richole, the heroine of Offen- 
bach’s comic operetta, She is a street 
singer of Lima, in Peru. 


Perichole (La), the chére amie of the 
late viceroy of Peru. She was a foreigner, 
and gave creat offence by calling, in her 
bad Spanish, the creole ladies pericholas, 
which means ‘flaunting and bedizened 
creatures.” They, in retaliation, nick- 
named the favourite La Perichole, 


Pericles, the Athenian who raised 
himself to royal supremacy (died n.c, 
429). On bis death-bed he overheard his 
friends recalling his various merits, and 
told them they had forgotten his greatest 
praise, viz., that no Athenian through his 
administration had had to put on mourn- 
ing, i.¢, he had caused no one to be pat 
to death. 


Pericles waa o famous man of warre,.. 
Yet at his death be mother did re 
In demencie, .. . “Be wll,” quoth ha, “you grave 


Athenian ™ 
(Whe whl-perid and told his valiant acts); 
Vou hare fort my greatest chirle gat : 
For set by ee fet nine oncashin 
Waa fever eon & mourning garment worn.” 
i, Gamculgue, Pie Steels Glas (died 177), 


Per'icles prince of Tyre, a 
voluntary exile, in order to avert the 
calamities which Anti'nchns emperor 
of Greece vowed agninst the Tyrians, 
Periclés, in his wanderings, first came to 
Tarsus, which he relieved from famine 
but was obliged to quit the city to avoid 
the persecution of Antiochus, Fle was then 
shipwrecked, ond cast on the shore of 
Pentap‘olia, where he distinguished him- 
self in the public games, and being in- 
troduced to the king, fell in love with 
the princess Thals'’a and married her, 
At the death of Antiochas, he returned to 
Tyre; but his wife, supposed ta be dead 





PERKER. 


753 PERSEUS. 








SS OS OD 





He is o “silly, half-witted virtunso, 
positive and aurly; fond of everything 
antique and foreign; and weara clothes 
of the fashion of the last century. Mr. 
Periwinkle dotes upon travellers, and 
believes more of sir John Mandeville 
than of the Lible” (act i. 1). Colonel 
Feignwell, to obtain hia consent to his 
marriage with Mr. Periwinkle's ward, 
diaguised himaelf as an Egvptian, and 
assed himself off aos a great traveller, 
His dress, he said, ‘‘belonged to the 


famous Claudius Ftoleméus, who lived | 


in the venr 155." One of his curiosities 
was pwnslosboio, “part of those wares 
which bore Cleopatra's vesecl, when slie 
went to meet Antony.” Another was the 
morus muxpAimaon, or girdle of invisibility, 
His trick, however, miscarried, and he 
then personated Pillage, the steward of 
Periwinkle’s father, and obtained Peri- 
winkle’s sipnature to the marriage by a 
fluke.—Mrs. Centlivre, A fluld Stroke for 
a Wife (1717). 


Perker (J/r.), the lawyer employed 
for the defence in the famous suit of 
“oriell c. Pickwick” for breach of 
remise, —, Dickens, The Pickwick 
y. ‘vapers (1836). 


Perkin Warbeck, an historic play 
or “‘vhroniche history,” by John bord 
(lids). 


Pernelle ( Madame), mother of Orgon; 
a reular vixen, who interrupts every one, 
without waiting to hear what was to have 
been said to her. — Moliere, Zurtujfe 
(Ltt). 


Perone!lla, « pretty country lass, who 
chanyes places with an old decrepit queen. 
leronella rejoices for a time in the 
idolatry paid to her rank, bot gladly 
resumes her beauty, youth, and raga.— 
a fiury Tule, 

Perrette and Her Milk-Pail 
LTerrette, carrying her milk-peuil weil- 
sen upon lier heal, beyan to specu- 
ale on ita value. She would sell the 
milk and buy ergs; she would set 
the egcs and rear chickens; the chickens 
she would sell and buy a pig; this she 
wuld fatten and change for a cow and 
ealf, and would tt not be delightful to 
see the litthe calf skip and play? So 
saving, she pave a skip, let the milk-pail 
fill, nnd all the milk ran to waste. * Le 
lnit tombe. Adieu, veau, veche, cochon, 
couver,” anil poor Perrette “va sexcuser 
Ain mmr, en grand danger d'etre 
putue," 





Quel toe bat bb compre? 
Qui we felt chiliow on Eogmgne ? 
Picrechole [q.e.) Fyrrhes, lo ldére, enfin boos, 
At le ges qe lew fom. . 
Qoclhjue accident dat-D que je rentre an mol-médmes 5 
Je sols GreeJean come dere. 
Lafuntnine, Faves (‘* La Laitiére et lo Pot am Lat,” 1608), 


(Dodsley has this fable, and makes 
his milkmaid speculate on the gown 
abe would buy with her money, It 
should be n, and all the young 
fellows would ask her to dance, but she 
would toas her head at them all—bnt ah | 
in ‘tossing her head she tossed over her 
milk-pail.) 

*,* Echephron, an old soldier, related 
this fable to the advisers of king Picro- 
chole, when they persuaded the king to 
go to war: A shoemaker bought a 
ha'porth of milk; thia he intended to 
make into butter, and with the money 
thus obtained he would buy a cow. The 
cow in doe time would have a ealf, the 
calf was to be sold, and the man when 
he became a nabob would marry a 
princess; only the jug fell, the milk waa 
spilt, and the dreamer went supperless to 
bed.—Rabelais, Gurjantua, i. 3d (1503). 

In « similar day-~ldream, Alnaschar in- 
vested al! his money in a basket of glass- 
ware, Which he intended to sell, and buy 
other wares, till by barter he became a 


princely merchant, when he should 
marry the viziers daughter. Leing 
offended with his wife, he became so 


excited that he kicked out his foot, 
stumshed all his wares, and remained 
wholly pennyless. — Arahan Nights 
(“ The Barber's Fifth Brother”), 


Perrin, « peasant, the son of Thibaut, 
—Molitre, Ze Medecin Malyre Lui (1666), 

Persaunt of India (Sir), the 
Blue Knight, called by Tennyson 
* Morning Star” or ‘* Phosphorus.” One 
of the four brothers who kept the passages 
to Castle Perilous. Overthrown by sir 
Gareth.—Sir T. Malory, History of Prince 
Arthur, i. 131 (1470); Tennyson, Jdylis 
("‘ Gareth and Lynette”). 

*,." Itis manifestly a blunder to call 
the filwe Knight “' Morning Star" and 
the Green Knipht “* Evening Star.” The 
old romance makes the combat with the 
“(ireen Knight” at dawn, and with the 
““Hlue Knicht" at sunset. The error 
arose from not bearing in mind that our 
forefathers hegan the day with the pre- 
ceding eve, and ended it at sunset. 


Perseus [J'er.suce], a famous Argive 
hern, whose exploits resemble those of 


| Herculés, and hence he was called “‘ The 


Aryive Hercules," 
WA 


PETER. 


sorry itis not in my 
youriordship.” Pet, ‘* Extremely sorry.” 
Sol. “Your lordship’s most obedient, 
humble, and devoted servant.” Pet. 
** Devoted servant.”—Benjamin Thomp- 
eon, The Stranjer (1797). 

Petcr, the pseudonym of John Gibson 
Lockhart, in a work entitled Peter's 
Letters to his Kinsfolk (1819). 


Peter (Lord), the pe of Rome.— 
Dean Swift, Zule of a Lub (1704). 


Peter Botte, a steep, almost per- 
pendicular ‘‘mountain” in the Mauritius, 
more than 2800 feet in heiht. It is so 
called from Peter Botte, a Dutch sailor, 
who scaled it and fixed a flag on its sum- 
mit, but lost his life in coming down. 


Peter Parley, the nom de plume of ; 


Samuel G. Goodrich, an American, whose 
books for children had an enonnous cir- 
culation in the middle of the nineteenth 
century (1793-160), 

‘The name was pirated by numerous 

rsons. Darton and Co., Simkins, Boyue, 

egz, Hodson, Clements, ete., brouzht 
out books under the name, but not written 
by S. G. Goodrich. 

Peter Peebles, a litigious, hard- 
hearted drunkard, noted for his lawsuit. 
—Sir W. Scott, Acd suuntict (time, George 
HIT.). 


Peter Pindar, the pseudonym of 
Dr. John Woleot, of Dodbrooke, Devon- 
shire (1738-1819). 

Peter Plymley’s Letters, attri- 
buted to the Rev. Sydney Smith (1769- 
1845). 

Peter Porcupine, William Cobbett, 
when he was a tory. He brought out 
Peter Porcupine’s Gazette, The Porcupine 
Papers, ete. (1762-1835). 


Peter Wilkins, the hero of a tale 
of adventures, by Robert Pultock, of 
Clifford's Inn. His ‘flying women” 
(gawreys) sugested to Southey the 
“yvlendoveer” in The Curse of Kehama. 


Peter of Provence and the 
Fair Magalo’na, the chief characters 
of a French romance so called. Peter 
eomes into possession of Merlin’s wooden 
horse, 


Peter the Great of Egypt, 
Mehemet Ali (1768-1848). 


Peter the Hermit, a gentieman of 
Amiens, who renounced the military life 
for the rel'zg'ous. He preached up the 


power to entertain 


755 


first crusade, and put himself at 








PETIT PERROQUET. 
the head 
of 100,000 men, all of whom, except a 
few stragglers, perished at Nicea. 

He is introduced by Tasso in Jerusalem 
Delivered (1575) ; and by sir W. Scott in 
Count Rubert of Paris, a novel laid in the 
time of Rufus. A statue was erected to 
him at Amiens in 1854, 


Pater the Wild Boy, a sa 
discovered in November, 1725, ia the 
forest of Hertswold, Hanover. He 
walked on all fours, climbed trees like a 
monkey, ate grass and other herbage. 
Eiforts were made to reclaim him, but 
without success. He died February, 
178A, 


Peter’s Gate (St.), the gate of pure 
gatory, guarded by an angel stationed 
there by St. Peter. Virgil conducted 
Danté through hell and purgatory, and 
Beatrice was his guide through the 
anetary spheres. Danté aays to the 
fantuan bard : 


aE Pee ap 
Dantd, Zor, © (00h 

Peterborough, in Northamptons- 
shire; so called from Peada (son of 
Pendar king of Mercia), who founded 
here a monastery in the seventh century. 
In 1541 the monastery (then a mitred 
abbey) was converted by Henry VIII. 
into a cathedral] and bishop’s see. Before 
Peada's time, Peterborough was a vil 
called Medhamsted.—See Drayton, Poly- 
olbion, xxiii. (1622). 

Peterloo (The Field of), an attack of 
the military on a reform meeting held in 
St. Peter's Field, at Manchester, August 
16, 1819. 


Peterson, a Swede, who deserts from 
Gustavus Vasa to Christian II. king of 
Denmark.—H. Brooke, Gustavus Vasa 
(1730). 

Petit André, executioner.—Sir W. 
hw Quentin Durwurd (time, Edward 





Petit Perroquet, a king's gardener, 
with whom the king’s daughter fell in 
love. It so happened that a prince was 
courting the lady, and, being jealous of 
Petit Perroquet, said to the king that the 
young man boasted he could bring hither 
Tartaro’s horse. Now Tartaro was a 
“ave giant and a cannibal. Petit Perro- 

uet, however, made himself master of 

e horse, The prince next told the king | 
that the young gardener neshad ta 





PEVERIL OF THE PEAK. 


Ana.” ‘ Well, it is a capital name for a novel, I must 
gay.” he replied. In the very next novel by the author of 
Waverley, the hero's name is ‘‘Julian.” 1 allude, of 
course, to Peseril af the Peak.—J. Young, Memoirs, 91. 


Peveril of the Peak, the longest 
of all sir W. Scott's novels, and the most 
heavy (1823). 


Pheedra, daughter of Minos, and 
wife of Theseus. (See PHEDRE.) 


Phaedra, waiting-woman of Alcme’na 
(wifeof Amphit’ryon). A type of venality 
of the lowest and grossest kind. Phedra 
is betrothed to judge Gripus, a stupid 
magistrate, ready to sell justice to the 
highest bidder. Neither Phedra nor 
Gripus forms any part of the drumatis 
persome of Moliere’s Amphitryon (1668). 
~—Drvyden, Amphitryon (1690). 


Pheedria, the impersonation of 
wantonness. She is handmaid of the 
enchantress Acrasia, and sails about Idle 
Lake in a gondola, Secing sir Guyon, 
sie fernes him across the lake to the 
floating island, where he is set upon by 
Cymoch'les, — Phuedria_ interposes, and 
ferries sir Guyon (the Kmght Tem- 
perance) over the lake again.—Spenser, 
Fuéry Queen, i. (1590). 


Pha’eton (3 sy/.), son of Helios and 
Clymené. He obtained leave to drive his 
father's sun-car for one day, but was 
overthrown, and nearly set the world on 
fire, Jove or Zeus (1 sy.) struck him 
with a thunderbolt for his presumption, 
and cast him into the river Po. 


Phal’aris, tyrant of Agrigentum, in 
Sicly. When Perillos, the brass-founder 
of Athens, brought to him a brazen bull, 
and told the tvrant it was tntended for 
the punishment of criminals, Phalaris 
inquired into its merits. Perillos said 
the victim was to be enclosed in the bull, 
and reasted ative, by making the figure 
red hot. Certain tubes were so con- 
structed as to make the groans of the 
victim resemble the bellowings of a mad 
bull. The tvrant much commended the 
invenuity, and ordered the invention to 
be tried on Perillos himself. 

Letters of Philaris, certain apocryphal 
letters ascribed to Phalaris the tyrant, 
and published at Oxford, in 1718, by 
Charles Bevle. There was an edition in 
live by Walekenaer ; another in 1223 by 
G. H. Schwfer, with notes by Boyle and 
others. Bentley maintained that the 
letters were ferzerics, and no doubt 
Bentley was right. 


787 





PHARAOH. 


Phallas, the horse of Heraclius. 
(Greek, phalios, ‘‘a grey horse.”’) 


Phantom Ship (The), Carimilhan 
or Carmuhan, the phantom ship on which 
the kobold of the Cape sits, when he 
appears to doomed vessels. 

... that phantom ship, whose form 
Shoots like a meteer thro’ the storm . . « 
And well the duumed spectators know 
"Tis barblnger of wreck and woe. 
Gir W. Scott, Robedy, iL 11 (181%, 

Pha’on, a young man who loved 
Claribel, but, being told that she was 
unfaithful to him, watched her. He saw, 
as he thought, Claribel holding dn assig- 
nation with some one he supposed tobe a 

oom. Returning home, he encountered 

laribel herself, and ‘‘with wrathfull 
hand he slew her innocent.” On the trial 
for murder, ‘the lady" was proved to 
be Claribel'’s servant. Phaon would have 
slain her also, but while he was in pur- 
suit of her he was attacked by Furor.— 





Spenser, Fuéry Queen, ii. 4, 28, ete. 
(1590). 
*.* Shakespeare's Much Ado about 


Nothing is a similar story. Both are 
taken from a novel by Belleforest, copied 
from one by Bandello. Ariosto, in his 
Orlando Furioso, has introduced a similar 
story (bk. v.), and Turbervil’s Geneura is 
the same tale. 


Pharamond, king of the Franks, 
who visited, incoynito, the court of king 
Arthur, to obtain by his exploits a place 
among the knights of the Round Table. 
He was the son of Marcomir, and father 
of Clodion. 

Calprenétde has an heroic romance so 
called, which (like his Cleopatra and 
Cassandra) is a Ruman de Longue Huleine 
(1612-1666). 

Phar'amond, prince of Spain, in the 
drama called J’Ailuster or Love Lies a~ 
bledinj, by Beaumont and Fietcher 
(date uncertain, probably about 1662). 


Pharaoh, the titular name of all the 
Egvptian kings till the time of Solomon, 
as the Roman emp-rors took the titular 
name of Cesar. After Solomon's time, 
the titular name Pharaoh never occurs 
alone, but only as a forename, ss Pharaoh 
Necho, Pharaoh Hophra, Pharaoh Shi- 
shak. After the division of Alexander's 
kingdom, the kings of Egypt were all 
called Ptolemy, generally with some dis- 
tinctive aftername, as Ptolemy Phila-~ 
delphos, Ptolem Fuergeta, Ptolemy 
Philopator, etc.—Selden, Jities of Honou-, 
v. 50 (1614). 





— 


-. 





PHEASANT. 


tained by Cleopatra (bk. x.). While here, 
he tarries in luxurious dalliance, the 
palace is besiered by Egyptians, and 
‘yesar with difficulty escapes to Pharos, 
He is closely pursued, hemmed in on all 
sides, and leaps into the sea. With his 
imperial robe held between his teeth, 
his commentarica in his left hand, and 
his sword in his right, he buffets with the 
wares. A thousand javelins are hurled 
at him, but touch him not. He swims 
for empire, he swims for life; ‘tis Caesar 
and his fortunes that the waves bear on. 
Hie reaches his fleet; is received by his 
«ildiera with thundering applause, The 
stars in their courses fought for Cesar, 
The sea-pode were with him, and Egypt 
with ber host was a by-word and a 
acorn, 

*.* Bk, ix. conlains the account of 
the African serpents, by far the most 
celebrated passage of the whole poem, 
The following is a pretty close translation 
of the serpents themselves. It would 
have occupivd too much room to give 
their onslaught also :— 


Here all the eerpent dead!y brood aqepenrs: 

Furst the dull Asp ite swelling heck Gprears; 

The hoge Heniorrh [a vanipire of the blomd ; 

Chersy dere, Liat pollute both fell aod Bund j 

The Water-serpent, tyrant of the lake; 

The bose Cobre; and the Plaitain snake ; 

Here with distended joe tho [reser elrays; 

And Sepa, whee bite beth fleeh and bone decays; 

The Amphisikena with ta double heal, 

oe on the neck, aod one of tall in efhemal 5 

The borne! Cemutés; and the Hainimedlyia, 

Wis cons hoe milgiit lalk the epee aight 3 

Afeverah third hetays the Dipens ating; 

The Fy tile, Ite aegh that costs bo apring 5 

The Nalria bere the crystal etree pillotes; 

bu ft (hr Lee alt the rencined Javall showta | 

Vlere the Tarte, mating um |te toll, ; 

Marts in tlie tau Is jeri ta tral 5 

The sperkded Ceochris darts Ita devi way, 

Tis chi with apa ne Theben marble gay ; 

Tie italia Bilode; mined Benaal 

With when moo linking Chirag ite Nfs would risks, 

Whereer it muvee none cle would dare remake, 

Tyrant alike aod Leno of the plain, 
} EGE 


In this battle Pompey had 45,000 
leviunaries, TOM) hurse, and a large 
numlerof guxiliaries. Cesar bad 22,1000 
lvvinnaries, and 00 home. Pompey's 
battle ery waa Jfercules invictue! That 
of (‘wear was Venus victric! Cesar won 
the battle. 


Pheasant. So called from Ihasis, a 
giream of the [Slack Sea. 

There was formerly af the fort of Potl o preserve of 
phraoiitt, which birds detive their Durepeso name frown 
the river Phase (Lie porn! Ben ).—Lieot deneral Mon- 
eit hs 

Phebe (2 sy/.), a shepherdess beloved 
by the shepherd Silvius. While Rosalind 
was in boy's clothes, Phebe fell in love 


759 


PHILANDER. 


of marriage; but when Rosalind ap- 

red in her true character, and guava 

er hand to Orlando, Phebe was content 

to accept her old love Silvius.—Shake- 
apeare, As Fou Like Jt (L600), 


Phedre (or Prapra), daughter of 
Minos king of Crete, and wife of The- 
seus. She conceived a criminal love for 
Hippolytos her step-son, and, being re- 
pulsed by him, sansa him to her’ lens 
band of attempting to dishonour her, 
Hippolytos was put to death, and Phaedra, 
wrung with remorse, strangled herself. 

This has been made the subject of tra~ 
redy by Eurip'idés in Greek, Sen’eca in 
zatin, Racine in French Jetta “Phedre™ 
was the great part of Mdile. Rachel; 
she first appeared in this character im 
1838. 

Pradon, under the patronage wf the 
i Hears de Douillon socal the duc de 
Nevers, produced, in 1677, his tragedy of 
Piedre in opposition to that of ine, 
The duke even tried to hiss down 
Racine's play, but the public judgment 
was more powerful than the duke; and 
while it pronounced decidedly for Ra- 
cine's chef d'aucre, it had no tolerance 
for Pradon's production.) 

Phelis “the Fair," the wife of sir 
Guy earl of Warwick, 

Phid'ias (The French), (1) Jean 
Goujon; also called * The Correggio of 
Sculptors.” Iie was slain in the St. 
Bartholomew Massacre (1510-1572). (2) 
J. B. Pigalle (1714-1785). 


Phil (Little), the lad of John Davies 
the old fisherman.—Sir W. Scott, Aed- 
gauntlet (time, George IIT.). 


Philaminte (3 syl.), wife of Chry- 
sale the lnurreois, and mother of Ar- 
mande, Henriette, Ariste, and Belise,— 
Muliere, Les Femines Suvantes (1672). 


Philan‘der, of Holland, was a zuest 
at the house of Arge’o baron of Servia, 
and the baron’s wife Gabri’na fell in love 
with him. Philander ted the house, and 
Gabrina told her husband he had abused 
her, and had fled out of fear of him, 
Iie was pursued, overtaken, and cast 
into « dungeon. One day, Gabrina 
visited him there, and asked him to 
defend her against a wicked knight, 
This he undertook to do, and Gabrina 
pested him in a place where he could 
niake his attack. Philander slew the 
knight, but discovered that 1t was Argeo, 


with the stranger, and made a proposal | Gabrina now declared thea wood Wore 








PHILIPSON., 


Philipson (The elder), John carl of 
Oxford, an exiled Lancastrian, who goes 
to France disguised as a merchant. 

Arthur Phiipson, sir Arthur de Vere, 
soa of the earl of Oxford, whom he 
eccompanies to the court of. king René 
of Provence.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Geierstcin (time, Edward IV.). 


Phil'isides (3 sy/.), sir Philip Sidn 
(1854-1686). (3 syl.) p Sidney 
It was the harp of Phil'isides, now dead. . oe 





o° Philip) Sad[ ney), with with the Greek 
termination, makes Phili-sides. Bisho 
Hall calls the word PAsl-ts’-sdes : ** Whi 
sweet Philis’ides fetched of late from 
France.” 

rich, the 


Philistines, the vulgar 
pretentiously renteel not oO *S society,” 
sovial sno distinguished for their 
much iewellery and loud finery. 
Demonstrative and offensive whiskers, which are the 
iuberitance of the British Philistines,—MMra, 
t, Phade, Junr., 1 2 
Phillips (Jessie), the title and chief 
character of a novel by Mrs. Trollope, 
the object being an attack on the new 
poor-law system (1843). 


Phillis, a drama written in Spanish 
Lupercio Leonardo of Argensola.— 
antes, Dun Quirote (1605-15). 


PaAillis, a pastora] name for a maiden. 
Where Corydon and Thy nis, met, 
Are at their savoury dinner set, 
Of herbs and other cuuntry menses, 
Which the neat-banded Piillis dresses. 
Milton, L'4Ueyre (3638). 
Phillis, ‘the Exigent,” asked ** Damon 
thirty sheep for a kiss ;" next day, she 
een him ‘‘thirty kisses for a 
sheep ;” the third day, she would have 
given " thirty sheep for a kixs;” and 
the fourth day, Damon bestowed his 
kissea for nothing on Lizette.—C. Rivitre 
Dufresny, Lis Coyuctle de VWillaye (1715). 


Philo, a Pharisee, one of the Jewish 
sanhedrim, who hated Caiaphas the high 
priest for being a Sadducee. Philo made 
a vow in the judgment hall, that he 
would take no rest till Jesus was 
numbered with the dead. In bk. xiii. he 
commits suicide, and his soul is carried 
te hell by Obaddon the angel of death.— 
Klopstock, Zhe Messiah, iv. (1771). 


Philoc'lea, that 18, lady Penelopé 
Devereux, with whom sir Phili ud aanthe, Sidney 
was in love. The lady marri 





761 PHILOSOPHER OF WIMBLEDON, 





and sir Philip transferred his affections 


to Frances Walsingham, eldest daughter 
of sir Francis Walsingham. 


Philocte'tes (4 syl.), one of the 
Argonauts, who was wounded in the 
foot while on his way to Troy. An 
oracle declared to the Greeks that Troy 


Greek chiefs sent for him, ar and he re- 
paired to Troy in the tenth and last yeaz 
of the siege. 


All have thelr day, rabid 
pr rh its eae tee 


Philom mel, daughter of Pandion 
king of Attica. She was converted into 
a nightingale. 


Philosopher (The). 
lius Antoninus, the Roman emperor, was 
so called by Justin Mart reve (121 161-180). 

Leo VI. emperor o East (866, 
eporphy the Neopla (228-804). 

orphyry, the Neoplatonist 

Alfred or Alured, surnamed “ Angie 
cus,” was also called ‘‘ The Philosopher” 


(died 1270). 

Philosopher of China, Confacius 
(B.c. 551-479). 

Philosopher of Fern 2 Voltaire, 


who lived at Ferney, near 
the last twenty years of his life leet 
1773). 

Philosopher of Malmesbury, 
Thomas Hobbes, author of Zeviuthan. 
He was born at Malmesbury (1588. 
1679). 


Philoso opher of Persia (The), 
Abou Ebn Sina of Shiraz (died 10387). 


Philosopher of Sans Souci, 
Frederick the Great of Prussia (1712, 
1740-1786). 

*,* Frederick elector of Saxony 
called “The Wise” (1463, 1544-1584). 


Philosopher of Wimbledoa 
The), Juhn Horne Tooke, author of the 
icersions Purley, He lived a 
Wimbledon, near London (1736-1812), 
ott the ave eae the different 
reek sects, as Cyrenaie, 
Eleac, Eleatic, Epicurean, Hoeraclitien, 








Ach’eron, Cocy’tus, and Le'thé&. (See 
Srrx.) 


Flore Phiegethon, 
Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage. 
Miltou, Paradise Lost, ii. 580 (1665). 
Phieg’rian Size, gigantic. Phlegra 
or the Phiegrw’an plain, in Macedon, is 
where the giants attacked the gods, and 
were defeated by Herciilés. Drayton 
makes the diphthong @ a short 3: 
Whore only love surprised those of the Phiegrian siss, 
The Titanola, that once against high hearen durst rise, 
Polyoldion, vi. (1613). 
Phobbs. Captain and Mrs. Phobbs, 
with Mrs. major Phobos a widow, sister- 
in-law to the captain, ia Lend Me Five 
Shiulings, by J. M. Morton. 


Pho’cion, husband of Euphra’sia 
“the Grecian daughter.” —A. Murphy, 
The Grecian Daughter (1772). 


Pho’cyas, general of the Syrian army 
in the sieyxe of Damascus. Phocyas was 
in love with Eudo’cia, daughter of Eu’- 
menés the governor, but when he asked 
the governor's consent, Eumenés sternly 
refused to give it. After gaining several 
battles, Phocyas fell into the hands of 
the Arabs, and consented to join their 
army to revenge himself on Eumerés. 
The Arabs triumphed, and Eudocia was 
taken captive, but she refused to wed a 
traitor. Ultimately, Phocvas died, and 
Eudocia entered aconvent.—Jobna Hughes, 
Sieye of Damascus (1720). 

Phebus, the sun-god. Phosbe (2 
syl.), the moon-goddess.—Greek Mytho- 


ARE 

Phabus's Son. Pha’éton obtained per- 
mission of his father to drive the sun-car 
for onc day, but, unable to guide the 
horses, they left their usual track, the car 
was overtumed, and both heaven and 
earth were threatened with destruction. 
Jupiter struck Phaeton with his thunder- 
bolt, and he fel! headlong into the Po. 


. . . hke Phoebus’ fayrest childe, 
That did presume his father's fiery wayne, 
And @auntug mouths uf steeds unwunted wilde, 
Thru’ Lighest heaven with weaker hand to rayme3.. « 
He leaves the welkin way most beaten playne, 
And, wrapt with whirling wheels, inflames the 
With dre not made to Lurne, but faytely fur to shyne, 
Bpeuser, Pudry Queen, i. 4 10 (1980), 
Phadus. Gaston de Foix was so called, 


from his great beauty (1488-1512). 


Phebus (Captain), the betrothed of 
Fleur de Mane. He also entertains a 
base love fur Esmeralda, the beautiful 

ipsy girl.—Victor Hugo, Notre Dame de 

aris (1331). 


Phonix (The) is said to live 500 (or 


PHLEGRIAN SIZE. 768 





PHRAORTES. 
1000) years, when it makes a nest of 
Spices, burns itself to ashes, and comes 
forth with renewed life for another simi- 
lar period. There never was but one 
phenix. 


The bird of Arabye . . . Can never 
And yet there is nune, Bat on 


ly one, 
A - . - Pliuni showew al in bls Mery Natural, 
What he doth finde Of the phenix kinde. 


J. Skelton, Philip Sparow (time, Heary VITL) 
Phonix Theatre (The), now called 
Drury Lane. 


Phonix Tree, the rasin, an Arabian 
tree. Floro says: ‘‘ There never was but 
one, and upon it the phenix sits.”— 
Dictionary (1598). 
pheraie thinks ei i the 

cenix was su to “is the 
date tree (called (a Greek hoinix), addi 
that ‘‘the bird died with the tree, an 
revived of itself as the tree revived.”— 
Nat. Hist., xiii. 4. 








At this bour reigning there. ns oe ee 
Shakespeare, The Tempest, act ill. se. 3 (3608). 
Phorcus, ‘‘the old man of the sea.” 
He had three daughters, with only one 
eye and one tooth between ‘em.—Greek 
Mythology. 
his is not ‘the old man of the sea” 
mentioned in the Arabian Nights (‘* Sind- 
bad the Sailor”). 


Phor’mio, a parasite, who is “all 
things to all men.”—Terence, Phormio. 
Phosphor, the light-bringer or morn- 
ing star; also called Hespérus, and by 
Homer and Hesiod Heés-phdros, 
Bright Phosphor, fresher for the night, 
Sweet Hesper-Phospher, double name. 
Tpuonyzon, J Memorism, cxxi. (1850), 
Phos’phorus, a knight called by 
Tennyson ‘‘ Morning Star,” but, in the 
History of Prince Arthur, “sir Persaunt 
of India or the Blue Knight.” One of 
the four brothers who kept the passages 
to Castle Perilous. — Tennyson, Jdylis 
‘‘ Gareth and Lynette”) ; sir T. Malory, 
estory of Prince Arthur, i. 131 (1470). 
*,* It is evidently a blunder w call 
the Blue Knight ‘‘ Morning Star” and the 
Green Knight ‘‘ Evening Star.” In the 
old romance, the combat with the “ Green 
Knight " is at dawn, and with the *‘ Blue 
Knight” at nightfall. The error arvse 
from not bearing in mind that our fore- 
fathers began the day with the preceding 
eve, and ended it at sunset. 
Phraortes (3 sy/.), a Greek admiral, 
—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert of Paris 
(time, Rufus). 





PICKEL-HERRINGE. 763 





' PICTURE, 





im 1879. The tale is this: Marthe, an | 


han girl adopted by a Swiss pastor, 
is in love with Frédéric Auvray, a roung 
artist, who ‘‘loved and left his love: 
Marthe plods through the snow from 
Switzerland to Rome to find her young 
artist, but, for greater security, puts on 
boy’s clothes, and assumes the name of 
Piccolino. She sees Fr. déric, who knows 
her not; but, struck with her beauty, 
makes a drawing of her. Marthe dise 
covers that the faithless Frédéric is pay- 
ape Be addresses to Elena (sister of the 
duke Strozzi). She tells the lady her 
love-tale; and Frédcric, deserted by 
Elena, forbids Piccolino (Marthe) to 
come into his presence again. The poor 
Swiss wanderer throws herself into the 
Tiber, but is rescued. Frédéric repents, 
and the curtain falls on a reconciliation 
and approaching marriage. 


Pickel-Herringe (5 sy/.), a popular 
name among the Dutch for a buffoon; a 


corruption of pickle-hadrin (“a hairy | 


sprite"), answernng to Ben Jonson's 
uck-hairy, 


Pickle (Pereyrine), a savage, un- 
grateful spendthrift, fond of practical 
pokes, delighting in tormenting others ; 
ut suffering with ill temper the mis- 
fortunes which resulted from his own 
wilfulness. His ingratitude to his uncle, 
and his arrozance to Hatchway and 
Pipes, are simply hateful.—T. Smollett, 
The <Adventurcs of Lereyrine Pickle 
(1751). 


Pickwick (Simul), the chief cha- 
racter of Lhe Pickwick Papers, a novel 
by ©. Dickens. He is general chairman 
of the Pickwick Club. A> most. ver- 
dant, benevolent, elderly gentleman, who, 
as meniber of a club instituted ‘‘for the 
purpose of investizating the source of 
the Hlampstead ponds,” travels about 
with three members of the club, to whom 
he aets as puardian and adviser. The 
adventures they encounter form the sub- 


ject of the PostAwnous Papers of the | 


Pihicick Clb (1836). 

The original of Seymour's picture of 
“ Pickwick " was a Mr. John Foster (not 
the biographer of Dickens, but a friend 
of Mr. Chapman's the publisher). He 
lived at Richmond, and was “a fat old 
beau,” neted for his ‘drab tights and 
black gaiters.” 


Pickwickian Sense (/n a), an 
insult whitewashed. Mr. Pickwick ac- 
cused Mr. Blotton of acting in “a vile 


- esteem.” 


| brethren” 








anil calumnious manner;” whereu 
Mr. Blotton retorted by calling ° 
Pickwick ‘‘a humbug.” But it finally 
was made to appear that both had used 
the offensive words only in a pariia- 
mentary sense, and that each entertained 
for the other ‘“‘the highest regard and 
So the difficulty was easily 
adjusted, and both were satisfied. 

ribald and politicians dally abuse each other tn a 
Pickwickian sense. —Bowditch. 

Pic’rochole, king of Lerné, noted for 
his choleric temper, his thirst for empire, 
and his vast but ill-digested projects.— 


| Rabelais, Garyantua, i. (1533). 


Supposed to be a satire on Charles V. 
of Spain. 

The rustics of Utopia one day asked the cake-bakers of 
Lerné to eell them some cakes. A quarrel ensued, and 
king Picrochole marched with all bisaray apiset Utopia, 
to extirpate the insolent inbabitants.—Bk. i 33. 

Picrochole’s Counsellors. The 
duke of Smalltrash, the earl of Swash- 
buckler, and captain Durtaille, advised 
king Picrochole to leave a small garrison 
at home, and to divide his army into 
two parts—to send one south, and the 
other north. The former was to take 
Portugal, Spain, Italy, Germany (but 
was to spare the life of Barbarossa), to 
take the islands of the Mediterranean, 
the Morea, the Iloly Land, and all 
Lesser Asia. The northern army was to 
take Belyium, Denmark, Prussia, Poland, 
Russia, Norway, Sweden, sail across the 
Sandy Sea, and meet the other half at 
Constantinople, when king Picrochole 
was to divide the nations amongst his 
great captains. Echephron said he had 

eard about a pitcher of milk which was 
to make its possessor a nabob, and give 
him for wife a sultan's daughter; only 
the poor fellow broke his pitcher, and 
had to go supperless to bed. (See Bona- 
pviL.)—Rabelais, Puntagruel, i. 33 (1533). 

A shoemaker bought a ha'p'orth of milk; with this he 
intended to make butter, the butter was to buy a ouw, 
the cow was to have a calf, tho calf was to be sold, 
Sid nye ena aris eae 
to bed. —Pantagruel, | 32 2 

Picts, the Caledonians or inhabitants 
of Albin, t.e. northern Scotland. The 
Scots came from Scotia, north of Ire 
land, and established themselves under 
Kenneth M‘Alpin in 843. 

The etymology of ‘‘ Picts” from the 
Latin picti (‘‘ painted men”), isabout equal 
to Stevens's etymology of the word 

from sake pacha *¢ because 
we breathe-therein.” 


_Picture (Zhe), a drama by Mas- 
singer (1629). Tha etary of Sma pag 











te save his wife's father, Priuli), reveals 
the plot, under promise pardon ; 
but the senators break their pledge, and 
order the conspirators to torture an 

ction evidence’ stabs Pier Mo prevent 
‘king's evidence,” ierre 

his being broken on the wheel, and then 
kills himeelf.—T. Otway, Venice Pre- 
served (1682). 


John Kemble [1767-1438] could “air Pertines” 
Mhe Cuvha, nor ed * ike Kembia, 
—(. RB. Leatie, Autodiegrapag. 

Charien M. Young's “ Pierre,” 8 not co lofty, ts mere 
materal and soldierly than Kaembie's. 
Magasine (1028). 

Macready's * Pierre” oceasionally too feniifer, and 


@ very injuisitive servant of 
M. Darlemont, who long suspects his 
master has played falsely with his ward 
Julie count of Harancour. — Thomas 
Hlolcroft, The Deaf and Dwnb (1785). 


Pierre Alphonse (Ratti Motse 
Sephardi), a Spanish Jew converted to 
Christianity in 1062. 

AD stories that recorded are 
By Pierre Alfunse he knew by beart. 
Longfellow, The Ki ageide Jun (prelude). 

Pierre du Coignet or Coig- 
ndres, an advocate-general in the 
of Philippe de Valois, who stoutly 
opposed the encroachments of the Church. 

e monks, in revenge, nicknamed those 
grotesque figures in stone (called ‘‘ 

oyles"), du cownet. At Notre 

Jame de varie there were at one time 
gargoyles or extinguishing torches, 
and the smoke added not a littlo to their 
ugliness. 

You a may associate them with Master Plerre du Coignet, 
eee perform the oflice of ez —Rabelais, 
Gargantua and Pantagrue 


Pierrot [Pe’-er-ro), a character in 
French pantomime, representing a man 
in stature and a child in mind. He is 

nerally the tallest and thinnest man in 
fhe company, and appears with his face 
and hair thickly covered with flour. He 
wears a white gown, with very long 
sleeves, and a row of big buttons down 
the front. The word means “ Little 
Peter.” 


Piers and Palinode, two shep- 
herds in Spenser's fifth eclogue, represent- 
ing the protestant and the catholic priest. 

icrs or Percy again appears in ecl. x. 
with Cuddy, a pherd. This 
noble eclogue has for its subject “‘ poetry.” 


PIGROGROMITUS. 


aR en 


a 
A peasant said to the audience that 


would himself next night 

and beat the actor. When the 
arrived, the audience unanimously gave 
judgment in favour of the actor, saying 
that his squeak was by far the better 
resented to 


. Fhedrus tells a tale of « popelar 
ace who imitated the squeak Pig. 


imitation ; but the peasant 
them a real pig, and said, ‘‘ old, what 
excellent ju are ye!” This is 
similar to the judgment of the connois- 
seur who sented hy, the fellow one 
actually attem to paint a fly on 
rosebud, but it is no more like a fly than 
I am like——;” bat, a» he approached his 
finger to the pictare, the fly flew away.— 
G. A. Stevens, Zhe Connoisseur (1754). 


(fons. de), the dancing-master 
win Caen’ Alice ts Sdeenorth = Sir W. 
iroth Peverdl of the Peak (time, Charies 

Pigeon and Dove (7he). Prince 
Constantio was changed into a pi 
and the princess Constantia into o dove, 
because they loved, but were always 
crossed in love. Constantio found that 
Constantia was sold by his mother for a 
slave, and in order to follow her he was 
converted into a pigeon. Constantia was 
seized by a giant, and in order to 
him was changed into a dove. Cu 
then took them to Paphos, and 
became ‘‘examples of a and sin- 
cere passion ; and ever since have been 
the emblems of love and constancy.”.— 
Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy Zales ("‘ The 
Pigeon and Dove,” 1682). 

Pigmy, a dwarf. (See Proxy.) 

tt Diamond (The), brought 

from India by lord Pigott. Me w 
82} carats. In 1818 it came into 
hands of Messrs. Rundell and Bridge. 


m’itus, a name alluded te 
by sir Ague-chack.. 








EE 


PILLAR OF THE DOCTORS. 


——aee 


game road, to join Christian, who had | 


gone before. 


Pillar of the Doctors (La Colonne 
des Doctcurs), William de Champeaux 
(*-1121). 


Pillars of Hercules (The), Calpé | 


and Abfla, two mountains, one in Europe 
and the other in Africa. Calpé is now 
called ‘*The Rock of Gibraltar,” and 
Abyla is called ‘“‘The Apes’ Hill” or 
**mount Hacho.” 


Pilot (Zhe), an important character 
and the title of a nautical burletta by E. 
Fitzball, based on the novel so called by 
J. Fenimore Cooper of New York. ‘‘ The 
pilot” turns out to be the brother of 
colonel Howard of America. He hap- 
pened to be in the same vessel which 
was taking out the colonels wife and only 
son. The vessel was wrecked, but ‘the 
pilot’ (whose name was John Howard) 
saved the infant boy, and sent him to 
England to be brought up, under the 
name of Barnstable. When young 
Bamstable was a licutenant in the 
British navy, colonel Howard seized 


him as a spy, and commanded him to be | 
huny to the yardarm of an American | 


frivate, called the Alacrity, At this 
crisis, ‘‘the pilot" informed the colonel 
that Barnstable was his own son, and the 
father arrived just in time to save him 
from death. 


Pilpay’, the Indian Zsop. His com- 


pon was in Sanskrit, and entitled | 


antschatantra,. 


It was rumoured he could ay... 
AL the ‘'° Fables" of Pilpay. 
Longfelluw. fhe Wageide /na (preiade). 


Pilum’'nus, the patron god of bakers 
and millers, because he was the first 
person who ever ground corn. 


Then there was Piluranus, who was the first to make 
ee and became the god of bakers.—Ouida, 4 rladnd, 


Pimperlimpimp (Porder), a worth- 
Iess nostrum, used by quacks and sor- 
cerers. Swift uses the word in his Zale 
uf a Tub (1704). 

This famous doctor (Sherlock 
Andrew with the world, and, like the powder “ Pimper 
be Pimp.” turns up what trump the knave of clubs calls 


for. —A Jriuloyue between Lr. Sherlock ,., end Dr. 
Oates (1690), * 


Pinabello, son of Anselmo (king of 
Majransa). 
and tuld him he could not wipe out the 
disgrace till he had unhorsed a thousand 
dames and a thousand knights. Pinabello 


33 





769 


plays the Merry | 


Marphi’sa overthrew him, | 





PINDAR. 


was slain by Brad’amant.—Ariosto, 
Orlando Fursoso (1616). 


Pinac, the lively spirited fellow- 
traveller of Mirabel ‘‘the wild goose.” 
He is in love with the sprightly Lillia- 
Bianca, a daughter of Nantolet.—Beau- 
ieee and Fletcher, Zhe Wild-goose Chase 

1652). 


Pinch, a schoolmaster and conjurer, 
who tries to exorcise Antiph’olus (act iv. 
sc. 4).—Shakespeare, Comedy of Errors 


(1598). 


Pinch (Tom), clerk to Mr. Pecksniff 
‘architect and land surveyor.” Simple 
asa child nas a salad, and honest as 
truth itself. Very fond of story-books, 
but far more so of the organ. It was the 
seventh heaven to him to-pull out the 
stops for the organist's assistant at Salis- 
bury Cathedral; but when allowed, after 
service, to finger the notes himself, he 
lived in a dream-land of unmitigated 
happiness. Being dismissed from eck- 
sniirs office, Tom was appointed !ibrarian 
to the Temple library, and his new 
catalogue was a perfect model of pen- 
manship. 

Kuth Pinch, a true-hearted, pretty 
girl, who adores her brother Tom, and is 
the sunshine of his existence. She 
marries John Westlock.—C. Dickens, 
Martin Chuzzlewit (1844). 


Pinchbeck (Zady), with whom dos 
Juan placed Leila to be brought up. 

Olden she was—but bad been very young 3 
Virtuous she was—and bad been, | believe ... 
Bhe merely now was amiable and witty. 

Byron, Don Juan, xii. 43, €7 (1886). 

Pinchwife (J/fr.), the town husband 
of a raw country girl, wholly unpractised 
in the ways of the world, and whom he 
watches with ceaseless anxiety. 

Laly Drogheda ... watched ber town husband’ as 
assiduously as Mr. Pinchwife watched his coantry wife. - 
Macaulay. 

Mrs. Pinchwife, the counterpart ef 
Molitre’s ‘‘ Agnes,” in his comedy en- 
titled L'école des Femmes. Mrs. Pinch- 
wife is a young woman wholly unsophisti- 
cated in affairs of the heart.—Wycherly, 
The Country Wife (1675). 

*,* Garrick altered Wycherly’s comedy 
to The Country Girl. 


Pindar (Peter), the peeudonym of 
Dr. John Wolcot (1738-1819). 


Pindar (The British), Thomas Gra 
(1716-1771). On his monument in W: 
minster Abbey is inscribed these lines: 

8 








PIPER OF HAMELIN. 


to have been eaten by a cow. 
saing along one night during the 
** troubles,” he knocked bis head against 
the body of a dead man dangling from 
atree. The sight of the “iligant” boots 
was too great a temptation ; and as they 
refused to come off without the legs, 
Paddy took them too, and sought shelter 
for the night in a cowshed. © moon 
rose, and Paddy, mistaking the moon- 
light for the dawn, started for the fair, 
having drawn on the boote and left the 
‘‘legs” behind. At daybreak, some of 
the piper's friende went in search of him, 
and found, to their horror, that the cow, 
as they supposed, had devoured him 
with the exception of his legs— clothes, 

zs, and all. They were horror-struck, 
and of course the cow was condemned to 
be sold; but while driving her to the 
fair, they were attracted by the strains 
of a piper coming towards them. The 
cow startled, made a bolt, with a view, 
as it was supposed, of making a meal on 
another piper. ‘Help, help!” they 
shouted ; when Paddy himself ran to 
their aid. ‘Ihe mystery was soon ex- 
plained over a drop of the ‘‘cratur,” and 
the cow was taken home ayain.—S. 
(ies) Leyends and Stories of Ireland 
183-4). 


Piper of Hamelin (The Pied), 
Bunting, who first charmed the rats of 
Hamelin into the Weser, and then allured 
the children (to the number of 130) to 
Koppenberg Hill, which opened upon 
them. (See Pizp Pirer oF HAMELIN.) 


Piperman, the factotum of Chalomel 
chemist and drugyist. He was ‘so 
handy" that he was never at his post; 
and being ‘‘ so handy,” he took ten times 
the trouble of doing anything that another 
would need to bestow. Yor the self- 
gamne reason, he atumnbled and blundered 
about, muddled and marred everything he 
touched, and being a Jack-of-all-trades 
was master of none. 


There has been an accident because lam so handy. I 
went to the dairy at a bound, came back at another. and 
fell down in the open strect, where 1s) 4]tthe mLk. I tried 
te bale it up—ne go. Then | ran back or ran home, | 
forget which, and left the money somewhere; and then, 
in fact, [ have been four Umes to and fro, because | am so 
Randy.—J K. Ware, Pipermun’s Predicament, 


Pipes (7m), a retired boatswain’s 
mate, iiving with commodore Trunnion 
to keep the servants in order. Tom Pi 
is noted for hia taciturnity.—Tobias 
Smollett, The .tdrentures of Peregrine 
Pickle (1751). 

(The incident of Tom Pipes concealing 





771 PISISTRATOS AND HIS TWO SONS 





in his shoe his master’s letter to Emilia 
was suggested by Ovid. 
Art of Love.) 

Pirate (The), a novel by sir W. Scott 
(1821). In this novel we are introducea 
to the wild sea scenery of the Shetlands; 
the primitive manners of the old udaller 
Magnus Troil, and his fair danghters 
Minna and Brenda: lovely pictures, 
drawn with nice discrimination, and moet 
interesting. 

*,* A udaller is one who holds his 
lands vo allodial tenure. 


Pirner (John), a fisherman at Old St. 
Ronan’s.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan’s Well 
(time, George III.). 


Pisa. The banner of Pisa is a cross 
on @ crimson field, said to have been 
brought from heaven by Michael the 
archangel, and delivered by him to St 
Efeso, the patron saint of that city. 


Pisanio, servant of Posthu’mus. 
Being sent to murder Imogen the wife of 
Posthumus, he persuades her to escape to 
Milford Haven in boy’s clothes, and sends 
a bloody napkin to Posthumus, to make 
him believe that she has been murdered. 
Ultimately, Imogen becomes reconciled 
to her husband. (See PosTHUMUSB.)— 
Shakespeare, Cy:nbeline (1605). 


Pisis’tratos of Athens, being asked 
by his wife to punish with death a voung 
man who had dared to kiss their daughter, 
replied, ‘‘ How shall we requite those who 
wish us evil, if we condemn to death those 
who love us?” This anecdote is referred 
to by Danté, in his Puryatory, xv.— 
Valerius Maximus, Memorable Acts and 
Sayings, Vv. 


Pisis’tratos and His Two Sons. 
The history of Pisistratos and his two 
sons is repeated in that of Cosmo de 
Medici of Florence and his two grand- 
sons. It would be difficult to find a more 
striking parallel, whether we regard the 
characters or the incidents of the two 
families. 

Pisistratos was a great favourite of the 
Athenian populace; so was Cosmo de 
Medici with the populace of Florence. 
Pisistratos was banished, but, being re- 
called by the people, was raised to sove- 
reiyn power in the republic of Athens; 
so Cosmo was banished, but, being recalled 
by the people, was raised to supreme 
power in the republic of Florence. Pisis- 
tratos was just and merciful, we qed 





PIZARRO. 


he would kil! Tizarro, Rolla found his 
enemy elecping in his tent, apared his 
life, and made him hia friend. The 
infest child of Cora being lost, Rolla 
recovered it, and was so severely wounded 
in this hervic act that he died. Pizarro 
was slain in combat by Alunzo; Elvira 
retired to a convent; and the play ends 
with a grand funeral march, in which the 
dead body of Rolla is borne to the tomb, 
Sheridan, Pizarra (1814). 

The sonitinients of lovalty otters by “Rela” bod oe 
fal an effect, that when the duke of Quetnaberry aaked 
why the eters lual fillen, o si-rh-jobber replied, " Ke 
cue (hey here belt of plylig ierre at Drury Lane."— 
Steriliae cima ie, 

(Sheridan's drama of /Jizarro is taken 
from that of Kotzebue, but there are 
several alterations: Thus, Sheridan makes 
Pizarro killed by Alonzo, which is a 
departnre both from Kotrebue and also 
from Jisteric truth, Pizarro lived to 
conyuer Peru, and was assassinated in his 
puilace wt Lima by the son of his frend 
Aluiaprr, ) 


Pizarro, “the ready tool of fell Velas- 
quer’ crimes."—K. Jephson, Hrayanza 
(1r75). 

Mizarro, the governor of the State priaon 
in which Fernandes Florcatan was confined, 
Fernando's voung wife, in boy's attire, 
and under the name of Fidelio, became 
the servant of Pizarro, who, resolving to 
miurder Fernando, sent Fidelio and Rocco 
(the jatler) to dig his grave. Pizarro 
wis just about to deal the fatal blow, 
when the minister of state arrived, and 
commanded the prisoner to be set free, 
—Iteethoven, Fidelio (1791), 


Place'bo, one of the brothers of 
January the old baron of Lombardy, 
Wien January held a family conclave to 
know whether he should marry, Placebo 
told him ‘*te plensae himeelf, and do os 
he liked."—t'haueer, Canterbury Tales 
(‘* The Mercliuunt's Tule,” Liss). 





Placid (J/r,), a hen-pecked busband, 
who is roused at Inst to be somewhat 
more maniv, but could never be better 
than “ta botlel mblit without oyster 
gauce.” (See PLANT, p. 776.) 

Mrs. Piocni, the lady paramount of the 
house, who looked quite aghast if ber 
hiteland expressed a wish of his own, or 
oifenmipted te de an iodependent act.— 
lichlald, Arery One has Ji Fault (1704). 


Pluc'idas, the exact fac-simile of his 


frivnd Aimias, Tlaving heard of bis 
{nienidl's captivity, he went bo relonae 


bim, and being de‘ected in the garden, 








778 


PLAIN DEALER. 


was mistaken by Corfambo'’s dwarf for 
Amiaa. The dwarf went and told Pee’na 
(the daughter of Corflambo, “fair as ever 
yet suw living eye, but too loose of life 
and eke of love too light”). Placidas 
was ecized and brought before the lady, 
who loved Amins, but her love was not 
requited. When Placidas stood before 
her, she thought he was Amias, aod 
crest was her delight to find her love 
returned. She married Placidas, re- 
formed her ways, ‘and all men much 
aiinired the chanye, and spake her 
pruise.”"—Spenser, fuéry Queen, iv. 8, 9 


(15:43). 

Plagiary (Sir Pretful), a play- 
wright, whose drauims are mere plagiar- 
isms from ‘‘the refuse of obscure 
volumes.” He pretends to be rather 
pleased with criticism, but is sorely irri- 
tated thereby. Richard Cumberland 
(1792-1811), noted for his vanity and 
irritability, was the model of this cha~ 
racter.—Sheridan, 7'he Critic, i. 1 (1779), 


Herrick, who hed mo omceelon to steal, hes taken this 
linge from Buckling, ald spoils fein the theft. Like av 
Fretiul Plagiary, Herrick had mot skill to steal with taste, 
—i Chaniers, Lngliok Literature, 1. 134. 


Willinm Parsens [172-1705 ) was the original ° sir Free 
fol ithery,” mind {roe jie delineation most of onr modern 
aclurs lave burrowed thelr lem —Lefe of Sheridan, 

Plague of London (1665). 68,586 


persons died thereof, 


Plaids et Gieux sous l’Orme 
a socicty formed by the troubadours 
Picardy in the latter half of the twelfth 
century. It consisted of knights and 
ladies of the highest rank, exercised and 
approved in courtesy, who assumed an 
alolute judicial power in matters of the 
most delicate nature; trying, with the 
must consummate ceremony, all causes 
in love brought before their tribunals, 

This wae similar to the ‘Court of 
Love,” established about the same time 
by the troubadours of Provence.— Uas 
cersul JMfwjazine (March, 1792). 


Plain (Te), the level floor of the 
National Convention of France, occupied 
by the Girondiats or moderate repub- 
licans. ‘The red republicans occupied 
the higher seats, ealled ‘‘the mountain.” 
By o tlgure of speech, the Girondist 
purty was called ‘*the plein,” and the 
red republican party ‘the mountain,” 

Plain and Perspicuous Doctos 
(The), Walter Burleigh (1275-1357). 

Plain Dealer (7he), a com 
William Wycherly nei pada 

The cuuntes of Drogheda. .. inquired for the Plain 








PLEASURES OF MEMORY. 


All the pleasures of imagination arise 
from the perception of greatness, wonder- 
fulness, or beauty. The beauty of great- 
ness—witness the pleasure of mountain 
scenery, of astronomy, of infinity. The 
pleasure of what is wonderful—witness 
the delight of novelty, of the revelations 
of science, of tales of fancy. The plea- 
sure of beauty, which is alwavs connected 
with truth—the beauty of colour, shape, 
and so on, in natural objects; the beauty 
of mind and the moral faculties. Bk. 
ii. contemplates accidental pleasures aris- 
ing from contrivance and design, emotion 
and passion, such as sorrow, pity, terror, 
and indignation. Bk. iii. Morbid ima- 
yination the parent of vice; the benefits 
of a well-trained imagination. 

(The first book is by far the best. Aken- 
side recast his poem in maturer life, but 
no one thinks he improved it by so doing. 
The tirst or orizinal cast is the only one 
read, and parts of the first book are well 
known.) 


Pleasures of Memory, a poem in 
two parts, by Samuel Rogers (1793). The 
first part ix restneted to the pleasure of 
memory afforded by the five senses, as 
that arising from visiting celebrated 

laces, and that afforded by pictures. 
De ii, goes into the pleasures of the 
mind, as imagination, and memory of past 
gricfs and danzers. The poem concludes 
with the supposition that in the life to 
come this faculty will be greatly en- 
luarzed. The episode is this: Florio, a 
youn, sportsman, accidentally met Julia 
In a prot, and followed her home, when 
her father, a rich squire, welcomed him 
as his guest, and talked with delight of 
his younger days when hawk and hound 
were his joy of joys. Florio took Julia 
fora sail on the lake, but the vessel was 
capsized, and though Julia was saved 
from the water, she died on being brought 
to shore. It was Florio's delight to haunt 
the places which Julia frequented : 

Her charm arvund the enchantres Menory threw, 

A cuarmn that sothes the mind and swestens ton. 

Pleiads (Thc), a cluster of seven 
etars in the constellation Zaurus, and 
applied to a cluster of seven celebrated 
contemporaries. The stars were the 
seven duuyhters of Atlas: Maia, Electra, 
Tayytté (4 syl.), <Asterope, Merdpé, 
Alevone, and Celéno. 

Tie Pleiad of Alecandria consisted of 
Callimachos, Apollonios Rbodios, Ara- 
tos, Ilomer the Younger, [ycophron, 
Nicander, and Theocritos. All of Alex- 








775 





PLEYDELL. 


andria, in the time of Ptolemy Phila- 
del phos. 

he Pleiad of Charlemagne consisted of 
Alcuin, called ‘‘ Albinus;” Anzilbert, 





called ‘‘Homer;” Adelard, called 
‘‘ Augustine ;” Riculfe, called ‘ Da- 
metas ;" Vamefrid; FEginhard; and 


Charlemagne himself, who was called 
*¢ David.” 

The First French Pleiad (sixteenth cen- 
tury): Ronsard, Joachim du Bellay, 
Antoine de Baif, Remi-Belleau, Jodelle, 
Ponthus de Thiard and the seventh is 
either Dorat or Anadis de Jamyn. All 
uuder Henri III. 

The Scond French Pleiad (seventeenth 
century): Rapin, Commire, Larue, San- 
teuil, Menage, Dupérier, and Petit. 

We have also our Enjlish clusters. 
There were those born in the second haif 
of the sixteenth century : Spenser (1553), 
Drayton (1563), Shakespeare and Marlowe 
(1564), Ben Jonson (1574), Fletcher 
(1576), Massinger (1585), Beaumont 

Fletcher's colleague) and Ford (1586 
Sesides these, there were Tusser (1515), 
Raleigh (1552), sir Philip Sidney {854 > 
Phineas Fletcher (1584), Herbert (1593), 
and several others. 

Another cluster came a century later: 
Prior (1664), Swift (1667), Addison and 
Congreve (1672), Rowe (1673), Farqu- 
har (1678), Young (1684), Gay and Pope 
(1688), Macklin (1690). 

These were burn in the latter half of the 
eighteenth century: Sheridan (1751), 
Crabbe (1754), Burns (1759), Rogers 
(1763), Wordsworth (1770), Scott (1771), 
Coleridge (1772), Southey (eet), Camp- 
bell (1777), Moore (1779), Byron (1788), 
Shelley and Keble (1792), and Keats(1796). 

Butler (1600), Milton (1608), and 
Dryden (1630) came between the first 
and second clusters. Thomson (1700), 
Gray (1717), Collins (1720), Akenside 
(1731), Goldsmith (1728), and Cowper 
(1731), between the second and the third. 


Pleonec’tes (4 syl.), Covetousness 

ersonified in The Island, 

*hineas Fletcher (1633). ‘‘ His gold hie 
god" . .. he ‘much fears to kee 
much more to lose his lusting.” Fally 
described in canto viii. (Greek, pleo- 
neklés, ‘* covetous.”) 

Pleydell (Mr. Paulus), an advocate 
in Edinburgh, shrewd and witty. He 
was at one time the sheriff at Ellan- 
gowan. 


Mr. counsllior Pleydell was a lively, sharp-looking 
gentleman. wilb a prof: shrewdness in bis 


essional 
and, generally qeaking, a professional formality in 











PLOWMAN. 





V7 POCHET. 





“ charms,” — Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fury 
Tales (** Anguilletta,” 1682). 


Plowman (/ers), the dreamer, who, 
falling asleep on the Malvern Ilills, 
Worcestershire, saw in @ vision pictures 
of the corruptions of society, and par- 
ticularly of the avarice and wantonness 
of the clergy. This supposed vision is 
formed into a poetical satire of great 
vigour, fancy, and humour, It is divided 
into twenty parts, each part being called 
a persste of scparate vision.—William 
(or Rolwrt) Langland, The Vision of Piers 
} tncusse (130). 


Plumdamas (Afr. Prter), groceor.— 
Sir W. Scott, J/eurt of MidlotAin (time, 
George I1.). 


Plume ‘Sepere! 4 a gentleman and 
an ofheer, lle is in love with Sylvia a 
wealthy heiress, and, when be marries her, 
ives up lis comumission.—G. Farquhar, 
The Fecruiliny Ciificer (1705). 

Plummer (Cul), a little old toy- 
maker, in the emplow of Groff and 
Tackleton, teow merchants. He was 
ejire, crev-haired, and very poor. It 
wae his pride “Stu co os close to Natur’ 
In bis teys o8 le could for the mopvev,” 
Caleb Tlummier had w blind dawrhter, 
whe oesistel biti in tov-niaking, and 
whem he brucht up under the belief 
that he hinswelf was young, handsome, 
and well off, and that the house they 
lived in was sumptnously furnished and 
quite tingnificent. Every calamity he 
sriothed over, every unkind remark of 
their anarling employer he called a merry 
jest; so that the poor blind girl lived in a 
castle of the air, “a brisht litue world 
of hier own.” When merry or puzzled, 
ale used tu sing something about “a 
sparklinur lwowl.” 

Dt weak) have claldened (ee heart cf Cheat Uleltatele 
alia! Charie Th hens, Caleb Plaoumer.”—Lard W. 
Lapin, i rketriten. ib 

fievtha [ivamer, the blind daughter of 
the tov-maher, Whe fancied her pour old 
fuller Was bh voung fp, that the aack he 
Uirew acres bits shoulders was a hand- 
some bloe yerent-comt, and that their 
weeilen howe wis a palace. She was in 
love with Tackleten, the toy merchant, 
whem she thousht ta be a handsome 
youne proooe ; aml when she heard that 
he Was nlenk to niArry May Fielding, 
fhe droped ant was ike to dic, She 
waa then ilimdisnned, heard the real 
fects, and smd." Whe, oh, why did you 
deceive me thus? Why did you all 


my heart so full, and then come like | 





death, and tear away the objects of my 
love?" However, her love for her father 
was not lessened, and she declared that 
the knowledge of the truth was * sight 
restored.” “It ig my aight,” she cned., 
“Hitherto I have been blind, bat now 
my eyes are open. I never knew my 
father before, and might have died with- 
out ever having known him truly." 
Edward J'lwamer, eon of the toy-maxer, 
and brother of the Llind girl. He was 
engaged from boyhood to May Fielding, 
went to South America, and returned to 
marry her; but, hearing of her engage 
ment to Tackleton the toy me i‘ 
he assumed the disguise of a deaf ol 
man, to sscertain whether she loved 
Tackleton or not. Being satisfied that 
her heart was stil) his own, he married 
her, and Tackleton made them o present 
of the wedding-cake which he had 
ordered for himvelf.—C, Dickens, The 


| Cricket on the Hearth (1845). 


Plush (Jo/m), any gorgeous footm 
conspicuous for his plush breeches | 
Tainbow colours. 


Plutarch ( Zhe Modern), Vayer, born 
at Paris. His name in full was Francis 
Vayer de la Mothe (1586-1672), 


Pluto, the god of hadés, 

Brvthers, be of goal cheer, for this night we shal) sop 
with Phuto,—Leonides, To the Tiree Jundred ad Ther 
eb pel a 

Plutus, the god of wealth.—Classie 
Mytholonyy, 

Within a heart, dewrer than Plates" mine 
Shakerpaare, Jedias Comur, act iv. a. 3 (M007). 

Plymouth Cloak (A), a cane, o 
cudyvel. So called, says Ray, “ becuuse 
we use a staff in cuerpo, but not when we 
wear a clk,” 

Weliern. How, dog! |(falsing Nie cmallpel,) 
Oe te 
A ent eomareh, calivd the sraatakin, wwe 
Thai dh commend o citadel, culled ube shocks. 

Mamie, Ae Mig fo Py Col Dede, 1. 1 CL 
Po (Zum), a ghost. (Welsh, bo, “s 
hobgublin.”) 
He now would paws for eplrit Po 
4. Buller, Podiiras, UL 1 (LETS) 
Pocahontas, daughter of Powhatan, 
an Indian chief of Virginia, who rescued 
captain Juho Smith when her father was 
onthe point of killing him. She subse~ 
quently marred John Kolfe, and was 
bajtized under the name of Reboeca 
(1:95-1617),—Old and New London, ii, 
481 (L876). 


Pochet (.Wadame), the French “ Mere 
3am p."—Henri Mounier, 





POCHI DANARL 778 





—_—_—_—__— — 


PORTS OF ENGLAND. 





~ Pochi Dana'ri (“the penwyless™). 
So the Italians cal! Maximilian 1. emperor 
of Germany (1459, 1495-1519). 


Pocket (Mr. Matiitew), a real scholar, 
educated ot arrow, and an honowr-man 
at Cambridge, but, havi ing married young, 
he had to take up the calling of “ erinder” 
end literary fag for a living. Mr. 
Pocket, when annoved, used to run hia 
two hands into his hair, and seemed as if 
he intended tu lift himself by it, His 
house was a hopeless muddle, the beat 
menis and chief expense being in the 
kitchen. Pip was placed under the charge 
of this gentleman. 

Mrs. Pocket (ivtindnt), daughter of m 
City knight, brought up to le an ornn- 
mental nonentity, ‘hel pless, shiftiess, mmd 
waclesa. She was the mather of eight 
children, whom she allowed to “tumble 
np” os best they could, under the charge 
of lier ninid Finpson, 
Was a poor genticman, found life o very 
uphill work. 

Herbert I' ocket, son of Mr. Matthew 
Pocket, and an insurer of ships. Me was 
a frank, easy voung rian, lithe and brisk, 
but not muscular, There was nothing 
mean or aecretive nlout him. le was 
wonderfully hopeful, but had not the 
etulf to push his way into wealth. Ile 
woe tall. slim, and yale; had a languor 
whieh shewe! pPaclf even in lines hriskness © 


lier husband, who | 





nostrils like rocking-horse, hard fea- 
lures, and majestic head-dress in which 
Podsnap haw lin we offerings.” 
Ceompiana PF danghter of the 
above ; called by hor r father * the 
person,” She i# a Shen ) 
fs “always trying to hide her elbows,” 
reorglann adores Mra. Lannmle, and when 
Mr. Lammle tries to marry the girl 
to Mr, Fledgeby, Mrs, Lamnile indies 
Mr. Twemlow to speak to the father and 
warn him against the connection. 
Df cme cee he en to ihe ween monary 
loot 1) fie len the truck alacw the honda 
the wn weree were il 0, Moke, dar Sieg, Scene 
Poem in Marble (A), the a Pag a 
mausoleum of white — taj 
Agra by shah Jehan, to his creaian 
shahrinan Moomtaz-l-Mahul, who died ima 
ehildhirth of her eighth child. tebe also 
called ‘' The Marble Queen of Sorrow.” 


Poet (Tie Quer), Beroord Barton 
(1784-1849), 

Poet Sire of Italy, Dant# Alighieri 
(1265-1321). 

Poet Squab. John Dryden was ao 
called by the earl of Rochester, on account 
of his corpulence (1631-1701). 

Poet of France (Zic), Pierre Ron~ 
sard (1524-1585), 





POETS’ CORNER. 779 


best of which have ! after the name; 
those in italics are third-class poets; the 
two in brackets are Scotch.) 


Poets’ Corner, in the south transept 
of Westminster Abbey. No one knows 
who christened the corner thus. With 
poets are divines, philosophers, actors, 
novclists, architects, and critics. It would 
have been a glorivus thiny indeed if the 
corner had been set apart for England's 
pocts. But alas! the deans of Westminster 
made a market of the wall, and hence, as 
a memorial of British ts, it is almost 
@ cericature. Where is the record of 
Byron, Ford, Hemans, Keats, Keble 
Marlowe, Massinger, Pope, Shelley ? 
Where of E. B. Browning, Burns, Chat- 
terton, Collins, Congreve, Cowper, Crabbe, 
Gower, Herbert, Herrick, Hood, Marvel, 
T. Moore, Scott, Shenstone, Southey, 
and Waller? 

The ‘‘corner” eontains a bust, statue, 
tablet, or monument to tive of our first- 
Fate poets: viz., Chaucer (1400), 
Dryden (1700), Milton (1674), Shake- 
speare (1616), and Spenser (1598) ; and 
gome seventeen of second or third class 
ment, as Addison, Beaumont (none to 
Fletcher), S. Butler, Campbell, Cowley, 
Cumberland, Drayton, Gay, Grav, Gold- 
smith, Ben Jonson, Macaulay, Prior (a 
Most preposterous affair), Rowe, Sheri- 
dan, Thomsen, and Wordsworth, And 
also to such miserable poetasters as 
Davenant (‘* Oh! rare sir William Dave- 
nant!"), Mason, and Shadwell. Truly, 
our Valhalla is almost a satire on our 
taste and judyment. 

*,* Dryden's monument was erected 
by Shefticld duke of Buckingham. 
Wordsworth's statue was erected by a 
public subscription. 


Poets of Licentious Verses, 
Elephantis, a poetess spoken of by 
Martial, Hpurammata, xii. 43. 

Anthony Caraccio of Italy (1630-1702). 

Pietro Aretino, an Italian of Arezzo 
(1492-1557). 


Poetry (The Futher of), Orpheus (2 
ey!.) of Thrace. 

Futher of [Dutch Poetry, Jakob Maer- 
lant; alsocalled ‘* The Father of Flemish 
Poetry ” (1235 -1300). 

Futher of Enjlish Poetry, Geoffrey 
Chaucer (1328-140). 

Father of Epic Foctry, Homer. 

He compares Eachardeon to Homer, and predicts for 


Pele menor) the mune huours which are rendered to the 
Pather ut Epic Pucury. -Sur W. Soot. 


Poetry — Prose. Pope advised 











POISONERS. 


Wycherly ‘‘to convert his poetry inte 
prose.” 


Po'gram (Elijah), one of the “‘ master 
minds” of America, and a member of 
congress. He was possessed with the 


idea that there was a settled opposition 
in the British mind against the institu- 
tions of his ‘‘ free enlightened country.” 
—C. Dickens, Afurtin Chuzzleuit (1844), 


Poinder (Geurge) a city officer.—Sir 
W. Scott, Heart of Midlothian (time. 


- George 11.). 


Poins, a companion of sir John Fal- 
statf.—Shakespeare, 1 and 2 Henry JV. 
(1597, 1598). 

The chronicles of that day contain accounts of many a 
mal prank which [Jord Warwick, Addison's step-son) 
played . « (ike) the tawless freaks of the madcap priace 

Poius,— oray. 

Point a Moral or Adorn a Tale. 
Dr. Johnson, in his Vunty of Human 
Wishes (1749), speaking of Charles XII. 
of Sweden, says: 

He left the naine, at which the world grew pale, 
To point a moral or adurp a tale. 

*,* Juvenal said of Hannibal: ‘Go, 
madman ; hurry over the savage Alps, to 
please the schoolboys, and become their 
subject of declaniation.” 


Poison. It is said that Mithridatés 
V1., surnamed ‘‘ the Great,” had so forti- 
fied his constitution, that poisons had no 
baneful effect on him (B.c. 131, 120-68). 


Poison-Detectors. Opal turns pale, 
and Venetian glass shivers at the ap- 
proach of poison. Peacocks ruffle their 
feathers at the sight of poison; and if 
poison is put into a liquid contained in a 
cup of rhinoceros’s horn, the liquid will 
effervesce. No one could pass with 

ison the hor gate of Gundoférus, 

ourgehan had a bracelet, the stones of 
which seemed agitated when poison 
approached the wearer. Aladdin's rin 
was & preservative ayainst on. evil. 
The sign of the cross in the Middle Ages 
was looked upon as a poison-detector. 
(See WARNING-GIVERS.) 


Poison of Khajbar. By this is 
meant the poison put into a leg of mutton 
by Zainab, a Jewess, to kill Mahomet 
while he was in the citadel of Kha’Tbar. 
Mahomet partuok of the mutton, and 
suffered from the puison all through life, 


Poisoners (Secref). 

1. Of Ancient Rome: Locusta, ema- 
ployed by Agrippi’na to pvison bee 
usuand the emperor Claudius. Nera 





eet TD CD 


POLLY. 


18 carried down ‘‘the blood-stained 
stream."—Spenser, Fuéry Queen, v. 2 
(1596). 

Upton conjectures that ‘ Pollente” is 
intended for Charles 1X. of France, and 
his grooin ‘ Guizor” (he says) means the 
duke of Guise, noted for the part he tovk 
in the St. Bartholomew Massacre. 


Polly, daughter of Peachum. A 
retty girl, who really loved captain 
facheath, married him, and remained 
faithful even when he disclaimed her. 
When the reprieve arrived, ‘‘ the captain” 
confessed his marriaye, and vowed to 
abide by Polly for the rest of his life.— 
J. Gay, The Beygjar's Opera (1727). 

This character has led to the peerage 


three actresses: Miss Fenton (duchess of 


Boltun), Miss Bolton (lady Thurlow), and 
Miss Stephens (countess of Esser), 

Mrs. C. Mathews says of Miss Fenton 
(1708-1760) : 

Both by singing and acting, the lmpre-won she made fn 
"Polly “ was most powerful, . 2. Not a prtut-ehop or 
fanshop but exhibitd her handsome fisure in her 
* Polly's” costume, Which possewedl all the characteristic 
ampliaity of the owdern quakerus, wilivul one mere 
trichous ornament, 


Polo’nius, a varrulous old chamber- 
Jain of Denmark, and father of Laer'tés 
and Ophelia; conceited, politic, and a 
courtier, Polonius conceals himself, to 
overhear what Ilamlet saves to his mother, 
and, making some unavoidable noise, 
startles the prince, who, thinking it is 
the hing concealed, rushes blindly on 
the intruder, and kills him ; but finds too 
lnte he has killed the chamberlain, and 
not Claudius as he hoped and expected. 
—Shakespeare, J/hanlet (1596), 


Polontus fy a man bred in courts, exerch ed In business, 
stored with olecrentuons, confident of his kiow 
roud of bis eluguence, and declining to dotage.—Dr, 
vhnaon. 


It was the great part of William Mynitt 
(1710 1763), 

Noon after Munten ntired from fne stage, an admirer 
met hing he Covent Garden. Tt was a wet day, and each 
earnedian umbreda. The genticuan'’s Was an expensive 
sk one, and Joe's an old singluain, °° Se have left 
thestae, 2 2. amd ‘Polonms” ‘Jemmy Jumps,” ‘Old 
Dornton, aml a dasen others have left the world with 

ow?) Deh pou gave me some triffe ty way of memorial, 
Liitnden t ** Prifle, str? Vo faith, ir, ve got nothing. 
Bat bold, yes, ead, -uppose we exchange unibrellas ”— 
Zreatric-al Anevidates. 


Polwarth (Alice), 
Waverley'’s.—Sir W. 
(time, George IE.). 


a servant of 
Scott, Waucerley 


Polycle’tos (in Latin Poulycictus), a 
statuary of Sicyon, who drew up a canon 
of the proportions of the several parts of 
the human body: as, twice round the 
thumb is unce round the wrist; twice 


781 





POLY DORE. 


ome 


round the wrist is once round the neck 3 
twice round the neck is once round the 
waist ; once round the fist is the len 

of the foot; the two arms extended is 
the height of the body; aix times the 
length of the foot, or eighteen thumbs, is 
also the height of the body. 

Again, the thumb, the longest toe, 
and the nose should all be of the same 
lenyth. The index finger should mea 
sure the breadth of the hand and foot, 
and twice the breadth should give the 
length. The hand, the foot, and the 
face should all be the same length. The 
nose should be one-third of the face: 
and, of course, the thumbs should be 
one-third the length of the hand. Gerard 
de Lairesse has given the exact measure- 
ments of every part of the human figure, 
according to the famous statues of ‘* An- 


tinous,” ‘‘Apollo Belvidere,” ‘* Her- 
_ culés,” and ‘‘ Venus de Medici.” 
Polycrates (4 syl.), tyrant of 


Samos. He was sv fortunate in every- 
thing, that Am’‘asis king of Egypt ad- 
vised him to part with something he 
highly prized. Whereupon, Polycrités 
threw into the sea an engraved gem of 
extraordinary valuc. A few days after- 
wards, a fish was presented to the tyrant, 
in which this very gem was found. 
Amasis now renounced all friendship 
with him, asa man doomed by the gods 3 
and not long after this, a satrap, having 
entrapped the too fortunate despot, put 
him to death by crucifixion. (See Fisn 
AND THE Rino.) —Hervdotus, iti. 40. 


Polyd’amas, a Thessalian athlete of 
enormous strength. He is said to have 
killed an angry lion, to have held by the 
heels a raving bull and thrown it help- 
less at his feet, to have stopped a chariot 
in full career, etc. One day, he attempted 
to sustain a falling rock, but was killed 
and buried by the huye mass. 

Milo carried a bull, four years old, on 
his shoulders through the stadiam at 
Olympia ; he also arrested a chariot in 
full career. One day, tearing asunder a 
pine tree, the two parts, rebounding, 
caucht his hands and held him fast, in 
which state he was devoured by wolves. 


Polydore (3 sy/.), the name by which 
Belarius called prince Guiderius, while 
he lived in a cave in the Welxzh moun- 
tains. Ilis brother, prince Arvirigus, 
went by the name of Cadwal.—Shake- 
speare, Cymbcline (1605). 

L'ol'ydore (3 syl.), brother of general 
Memnon, beloved by Ube yiincaa Cala 


POLYPHEME AND GALATEA. 788 








“@.* Homer was translated into Syriac 
by Theophilus F.dessenes in the caliphate 
of Hérun-ur-Rashid (a.p. 786-809). 


Polypheme and Galatea. Poly- 
heme loved Galatéa the sea-nymph ; but 
Galatea had fixed her affections on Acis, 
a Sicilian shepherd. The giant, in his 
jealousy, hurled a huge rock at his rival, 
and crushed him to death. 

The taie of DPoulypheme is from Ho- 
mer's CUdyssey, ix. It is also given 
by Ovid in his Sfetamorphoses, xiv. 
Euripidés introduces the monster in his 
Cyclups; and the tragedy of Acis and 
Ga'atea is the subject of Handel's famous 
mpera so called. 

(In Greek the monster is called Polu- 
pémvs, and in Latin Pulyphéimus.) 


Polyphe'mus of Literature, Dr. 
Sanucl Johnson (1709-1784). 


Polypho’nus (‘‘bij-voiced”), the 
Kapaneus and most boastful of the frog 
herves. He was slain by the mouse 
Artuphavus (‘‘ the bread-nibbler”). 

But great Artophagus avenged the slain, ... 

And Poly phonus dice, a frog renowned 

For boastful speech and turbulence uf sound, 
Parnell, tisttle af the Frogs und Mice, li (about 1718). 

Polyvhrasticontinomimegalon- 
dulation. 

Why not wind up the famous minicterial declaration 
with “Konx Ginpar” or that difficult expresivn, 
~ poly phrasucontinombnecalundulation "?-—The Star. 

Polypo’dium (‘‘many-foot"), al- 
ludiny to ity root furnished with nume- 
rous fibres.  Polypodium used to be 
greatly celebrated fur its effect on tape- 
worm, and for rheum. 

The hermit 
Here finds upon aa oak rheum-purging polypode (3 ag’.). 
Dra) tun, Polyulblun, xii, (1613). 

Polyx’ena, ® magnanimous and 
most noble woman, wife of Charles 
Enimanuel king of Sardinia (who suc- 
ceeded to the crown in 1730).—R. Brown- 
ing, Aiwy Victor and Ainy Charles, etc. 


Pombod'ita, hocus - pocus - land. 
When any one tells an incredible story, 
we might say to him, ‘Perhaps you are 
a native of Pombodita, where clephants 
are driven through the eyes of needles.” 


Com aliquis ineredibilia narrat, respondent, “ Forte ex 
Pomballta tu e«, ubi traducunt elepLantem per foramen 
acus —l'ole, Synoj;eis CYifsroriem. 


It nay be that Uiou art of Pumbeditha, where can 
briug aa elephant through the ge of a nesdie t 
aut (.4 sewisr /roecrt}, 

*,* Every one will call to mind the use 
made of this Jewish proverb by our Lord 
when the ‘‘rich ruler,” being told to sell 
all he had for the benetit of the poor, 














POND OF THE PROPHET. 


“went away sorrowful.” —Luke xviii, 
18-25 ; Mark x. 22. 


Pomegranate Seed. When Per- 
seph’oné was in hadés, whither Pluto 
had carried her, the god, foreknowing 
that Jupiter would demand her release, 
gathered a pomegranate, and said to her 
‘* Love, eat with me this parting day of 
the pomegranate seed;” and she ate. 
Deméter, in the mean time, implored 
Zeus (Jupiter) to demand Persephoné’s 
release; and the king of Olympus pro- 
mised she should be set at liberty, if she 
had not eaten anything during her deten- 
tion in hadés. As, however, she had 
eaten pomegranate seeds, her return was 
impossible. 

Low laughs the dark king on bis throae— 
* | gave ber of pomegranate seeds” . . . 
And chant the maids of Enva stil— 
“( fateful flower peside the rill, 
The daffudil, the daffodil.” (See Daryvoott.) 
Jean Ingelow, Persephone. 

Pompey, clown; servant to Mrs. 
Overdone (a bawd).—Shakespeare, Mea- 
sure fur Measure (1603). 


Pompey the Great was killed by 
Achillas and Septimius, the moment the 
Eyvptian tishing-boat reached the coast, 
Plutarch tells us they threw his bead into 
the sea. Others say his head was sent 
to Cesar, who turned from it with horror, 
and shed a tlood of tears. Shakes 
makes him killed by “ savage isl ” 
(2 Henry WJ. act iv. sc. 1, 1598). 


Pompil’ia, a foundling, the putative 
daughter of Pietro (2 sy/.). She married 
count Guido Franceschini, who treated 
her so brutally that she made her escape 
under the protection of a young priest 
named Caponsacchi. Pompilia subee- 
quently yave birth to a son, but was slain 
by her husband. 


The babe had been a find I the ilth-beap, sir, 
Catch from the kennel. There was fuund at Reme, 
Down In the dec; est of our social drew, 
A woman eho profemed the wanton's trade... 
Bhe sold this babe eight months before its birth 
To our Violante (3 ay’.), Pletro’s bonest qpouse, . . « 
Partly to pleue old Phetro, 
Partly cheat the rightful heirs, agape 
For that anne principal of the usufryct, 
It vexed hii be must die and Jeave Lebind. 
RK. Browning. The King and the Hook, il, 587, ote 


Ponce de Leon, the navigator who 
went in search of the Funtuine de Jouvenos, 
‘cur fit rajovenir la gent.” He sailed in 
two ships on this *‘ voyage of discoveries,” 
in the sixteenth century. 

Like Ponce de Léon, he wants to gu off to the Antb 
podé« in search of that Fontaine de Jousence which 
was fabled to give a man back his youth.—é‘¢ru, 130, 

Pond of the Prophet (74s), a 
well of life, from which all the blessed 














POPE JOAN. 785 POPISH PLOT. 
poor wretches prowper, lat every year the devil = Fimina, if. 577 ; in Lenfant, Histoire ds 


Pope Joan, between Leo IV. and 
Benedict IIJ., and called John [VITI.]. 
The subject of this scandalous story was 
an Enylish girl, educated at Cologne, 
who left her home in man’s disguise 
with her lover (the monk Folda), and 
went to Athens, where she studied law. 
She went to Rome and studied theology, 
earning so great a reputation that, at the 
death of Leo IV., she was chosen his 
successor. [ler sex was discovered by 
the birth of a child while she was going 
to the Lateran Basilica, between the 
Coliseum ard the church of St. Cle- 
ment. Pope Juan died, and was buried 
without honours, after a pontificate of 
two years and five months (853-855).— 
Marianus Scotus (who died 1086). 

The story is given most fully by 
Martinus Polonus, confessor to Gregory 
X., and the tale was generally believed 
till the Reformation. There is a German 
miracle-play on the subject, called The 
Canonization of Pope Joan (1480). David 
Blondel, a Calvinist divine, has written a 
book to confute the tale. 

The following note contains the chief 
points of interest :— 

Anastasius the librarian, is the first to 
niention such a pope, A.p. 886, or thirty 
years after the death of Joan. 

Muarianus Scotus, in his Chronicle, says 
she reigned two years five months and 
four days (855-855). Scotus died 1086. 

Sigebert de Gemblours, in his Chronicle, 
repeats the same story (1112). 

Otto of Freisingen and Gotfrid of Vi- 
terbo both mention her in their histories. 

Martin Polonus gives a very full ac- 
count of the matter. He says she went 
by the name of John Anglus, and was 
born at Metz, of English parents. While 
she was pope, she was prematurely de- 
livered of a child in the strect ‘* between 
the Coliseum and St. Clement's Church.” 

William Ocham alludes to the etary. 

Thomas de Elmham repeats it (1422). 

John Huss tells us her baptismal name 
was not Juan but Agnes. 
better insist that her name was Gil- 


rta. 
In the Annalés Augustani (1186) we 
sre told her papal name was John YW 
and that she it was who consec 
Louis II. of France. 

Arguments in favour of the allegation 
ave given by Spanheim, Exercit. ds Papa 


la Papesse ripen the allegati 
rguments nst the ion are 
iven by Allatius or Allatus, Confutatio 
abula de Johanna Papissa; and in 
Lequien, Oriens Chrishanus, iii. 777. 
rguments on both sides are given in 
Cunningham's translation of iseler, 
Le. ii. 21, 22; and in La Bayle’s 
Dictionnaire, ili, art. ‘ Fapiase.” 

e” Gi says, ‘Two ts, 
Blondel and Bayle, have montuilated the 
female pope; but the expression is cer 
tainly too strong, and even Mosheim is 
more than half inclined to believe these 
really was such a person.” 


P f Philoso Aristotle 
- Be4-822). phy 


(B.C. 


ween (Titles assumed by). “ Uni- 
Bishop,” prior to Gregory the 
Great. Gregory the Great ado the 


rle of ‘* Servus Servorum ” (591). 
artin IV. was addressed as ‘the 
lamb of God which takest away the sins 
of the world,” to which was added, 
‘¢ Grant us thy peace!” (1281). 

Leo X. was styled, by the council of 
Lateran, ‘“ Divine Majesty. ‘S Husband 
of the Church,” *' Prince of the Apostles,” 
‘““The Key of all the Universe,” ‘“‘ The 
Pastor, the Physician, and a God pos- 
sessed of all power both in heaven and 


Christendom, 
Omnipotence,” ‘* V 
the Pope” (1605). 
Others, after Paul, ‘‘ Master of the 
World,” “Pope the Universal Father,” 
“Judge in the place of God,” “‘ Vice- 
rent of the Most High.”—Brady, Clavie 
lendaria, 247 (1839). 
The assumes supreme dominion, not caly 


*,° For the first five centaries the 
bishops of Rome wore a bonnet, like 
other ecclesiastics. Pope Hormisdas 

laced on his bennet the crown sent him 
by Clovis; Boniface VIII. added a 
les with 


second crown during his stra 
I. as- 


Philip the Fair; and John 
sumed the third crown. 
Fopish Plot, a supposed Roman 
Catholic conspiracy to massacre the pro- 
testants, burn London, and marder the 
z 





PORTLAND PLACE. 787 


rowed 8000 ducats, and Anthunio, a 
Venetian merchant, was his security. 
The money was borrowed of Shylock a 
Jew, on these conditions: If loan 
was repaid within three months, only the 

incipal would be required ; if not, the 
Sew should be at liberty to claim a pound 
of flesh from Anthonio'’s body. The loan 
was not repaid, and the Jew demanded 
the forfeiture. Portia, in the dress of a 
law doctor, conducted the defence, and 
saved Anthonio by reminding the Jew 
that a pound of gave him no drop of 
blood, and that he must cut neither more 
nor less than an exact pound, otherwise 
his life would be forfeit. As it would 
be Plainly impossible to fulfil these 
conditions, the Jew gave up his claim, 
and Anthonio was saved. 
Merchant of Venice (1598). 


Portland Place (London). Socalled 
from William Kentick, second duke of 
Portland, who married Margaret, only 
child of Edward second earl of Oxford 
and Mortimer. From these came Mar- 

ret Street, Bentick Street, Duke Street, 

ucheas Street, and Portland Place. 


Portman uare (London). 8o 
called from Wilham Henry Portman, 
owner of the estate in which the Square 
and Orchard Street both stand. 


Portsmouth (The duchess of), ‘* La 
Belle Louise de Querousille,” one of the 


espeare, 


mistresses of Charles I].—Sir W. Scott, ° 


Peceril of the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Portuguese Cid (The), Nanez 
Alvarez Pereira (1360-1481). 


Portuguese Horace (The), An- 
tonio Ferrcira (1528-1569). 


Possunt, quia Posse Videntur. 
Fail not to will, and you will not fail.— 
Virgil, A neid, v. 231. 

Posthu’mus [LeonxAtvs] married 
Imogen, daughter of Cymbeline king of 
Itritain, and was banished the kingdom for 
life. He went to Italy, and there, in the 
house of Philaric, bet a diamond ring with 
Jachimo that nothing could seduce the 
fidelity of Imogen. Iachimo acce the 
bet, concealed himself in a cheat in Imo- 
xen‘’s chamber, made hinwelf master of cer- 
tain details and also ofa bracelet, and with 
these vouchers claimed the ring. Post- 
bumus now ordered his servant Pisanio 
to inveigle Imogen to Milford Haven 
under the promise of meeting her husband, 
and to murder her on the road; 

isanio told Imogen to assume boy's 








POTT. 


apparel, and enter the service of the 
man general in Britain, asa nage. A 
battle being fought, the Roman general, 
Iachimo, and Im were among the 
captives ; and Posthumus, having done 
great service in the battle on Cymbeline's 
mi prayed’ thet th ‘pposed 
general pra @ su 
might be set at li "and the i ola 
her she might also m a boon, w 
upon she asked that Jachimo should state 
how he became, possesred of the ring he 
was wearing. e whole villainy being 
thus ex , Imogen's innocence was 
fully established, and abe was re-united 
—Shakes ° 


her husband. 
tee peare, Cymbeline 


Potage (Jean), the French “Jack 
Pudding ; similar to the Italian “* Maca- 
i,” the Dutch ‘‘ Pickel-herringe,” and 


the German ‘* Hanswuret.” win obey, 





mandizing clowns, fond of practical j 
es ially’ such as stealing eatables 
drinkables. 


Pother (Doctor), an spothecary 
* city register, and walking story-book.” 
He had a story 2 of every remark 
made and of every incident; but as he 
mixed two or three er, his stories 
were pointless and quite unintelligible. 
‘I know a monstrous good story on that 

int. He! he! be!” “I'll tell you a 

ous story about that, you must 
know. Hel he! he! ...” “I conld 
have told a capital story, but there was 
no one to listen to it. He! he! he!” 
iapeakt the style of bis r ; eee 
speaking profess! v—for anatomy, 
chemistry, pharmacy, phlebotomy, oxy- 
gen, hydrogen, caloric, carbonic, atmos- 
pheric, galvanic. Ha! ha! ha! Can tell 
you a prodigiously laughable story on 
the subject. Went last summer to a 
watering-place—lady of fashion—feel 
pulse—not lady, but lap-dog—talk Latin— 
prescribe galvanism—out jumped Pom 
plump into a batter pudding, and ty 
ike a toad in a hole. Ha! ha! ha!"— 
Dibdin, The Farmer's Wife (1780). 


*,* Colman's“‘Ollapod” (1802) wasevi- 
dently copied from Di ‘s “doctor 
other.” 


Potiphar’s Wife, Zoleikha of 
Zuleika ; but some call her Rafl.—Sale, 
Al Aordn, xii. note. 
Pott (Mr.), the librarian at the Spa, 
Mrs. Pott, the librarian's wife.—Sir 
ni pote Ronan’s Well (ume, George 








PRASUTAGUS. 


friend, Iroldo quits the country, and 
Tisbina marries Prasildo. Time 

on, and Prasildo hears that his friend's 
life is in danger, whereupon he starts 
forth to rescue him at the hazard of his 
own life.—Bojardo, Orlando Jnnamorato 
(1495). 


Prasu’ s or Presu’tagus, 
husband of Bonduica or Boadicéa queen 
of the Icéni.—Richard of Cirencester, 
Histury, xxx. (fourteenth century). 

Me, the wife of rich Prasutagus ; me, the lover of liberty,— 
Ma they seized, and me they tortured ! 
Tennyson, Boadicea, 

Prate’fast (Peter), who ‘in all his 
life spake no word in waste.” His wife 
was Maude, and his eldest son Sym Sadle 
Gander, who married [etres (daughter of 
Davy Dronken Nole of Kent and his wife 
Al’yson).—Stephen Hawes, The Pusse- 
tume of Plesure, xxix. (1515). 


Prattle (4fr.), medical practitioner, 
a voluble gossip, who retails all the news 
and scandal of the neighbourhood. He 
knows everybody, everybody's affairs, 
and everybody's intentions.—G. Colman, 
senior, The Deuce is in Him (1762). 





Prayer. Lvery Mohammedan must 
pray five times a day: at sunset, at 
niyvhtfall, at daybreak, at noon, and at 
Agr or evensony (about three o'clock). 


Pre-Adamite Kings, Soliman 
Raad, Soliman Daki, an Soliman di 
Gian ben Gian. The last-named, having 
chained up the dives (1 syl.) in the dark 
caverns of Kaf, became so presumptuous 
as to dispute the Supreme Power. All 
these kins maintained great state [be- 
fore the existence of that contemptible 
being denominated by us ‘‘ The Father of 
Mankind "]; but none can be compared 
with the eminence of Soliman ben 
Daoud. 


Pre-Adamite Throne (The). It 
was Vathek's ambition to gain the pre- 
Adanite throne. After long search, be 
was shown it at last in the abyss of 
Eblis; but being there, return was im- 
possible, and he remained a _ prisoner 
without hope for ever. 

They reached at length the hall [Argent] of great extent, 
and cusered witha lotty dome... . Afunereal gluon pre- 
wailed over it. Here, upon two beds of Incorrupuble 
eciar, lay recumbent the fleshless furuw of the pre 
Adaimite hing, who had once teen munarche of the 
whole earth... At their feet were inscrited the events 
of their several reigns, their power, Gheir pride, and thefr 
erinwe. [Taw wis the yre-Adamite thr ne, the am 
bition ef the ealigh Vathek. }—W. Beckford, lVatheh 
(784) 


Preacher (Zhe), Solomon, the son of 


789 PRECOCIOUS GENTUS. 


David, author of The Preaoker (i.e. Ko: 
olesiastes). 
Thus ealth the Preacher, “ Nought beneath the am 
Is pew ;” yet still from change to change we run. 


Preacher (The Glorious), St. Chrys'os- 
tom (347 407). The name means “‘Golden 
mouth.” 


Preacher (The Little), Samuel de Ma- 
rets, protestant contruversialist (1599- 
1663). 


Preacher (The Unfair). Dr. Isaac 
Barrow was so called by Charles IJI., 
because his sermons were so exhaustive 
that they left nothing more to be said on 
the subject, which was “unfair” to those 
who came after him. 


Preachers (The ki 
Bourdaloue ie32-1704). 


Précieuses Ridicules (Les), a 
comedy by Molitre, in ridicule of the 
** précicuses," as they were styled, form- 
ing the coterie of the Hotel de Rambouil- 
let in the seventeenth century. The 
soirées held in this hotel were a Great 
improvement on the licentious assemblies 
of the period ; but many imitators made 
the thing ridiculous, because they wanted 
the same presiding talent and good taste. 

The two girls of Molitre’s comedy are 
Madelon and Cathos, the daughter and 
niece of Gorgibus a bourgeois. They 
change their names to Polixtne and 
Aminte, which they think more genteel, 
and look on the affectations of two flunkies 
as far more distinjgués than the simple 

ntlemanly manners of their masters. 

owever, they are cured of their folly, 
and no harm comes of it (1659). 


Preciosa, the heroine of Longfellow’s 
Spanish Student, in love with Victorian 
the Student. 


Precocious Genius. 

JOHANN Puittrp BARATIER, a German, 
at the age of five years, knew Greek, 
Latin, and French, besides his native 
German. At nine he knew Hebrew and 
Chaldaic, and could translate German into 
Latin. At thirteen he could translate 
Hebrew into French, or French into 
Hebrew (1721-1740), 

*,* The life of this boy was written b 
Formey. His name is enrolled in all 
bi phical dictionaries. 

CurkistiaN Henry H&inecxen, at 
one year old, knew the chief events of 
the Pentateuch !! at thirteen months he 
knew the history of the Old Testament! ! 
at fourtcen months he knew the history 


of), Louis 











PRETTYMAN, 791 PRIMROSE. 
The mistress of Charles Edward Stuart To! Newton, priest of uxture, shines why, 
was Miss Walkingshaw, Ree Oe ple Piao we De, 


Tice (Walild«), a miller’s daughter; 
& pretty, cojoettish young woman, who 
marries John [rowdie, a hearty York- 
shire corn-factor.--C. Dickens, Nicholas 
Nickleby (1838), 


Pride, ‘‘ Fly pride, says the peacock," 
proverbial for : pid rind ance 
Comedy of Errors, act iv. sc. 3 (1593). 


Pride (Sir), first a drayman, then a_ 


colonel in the parliamentary army.—S. 
Butler, //udibras (1663-78). 


Pride of Humility. Antisthtnés, 
the Cynic, affected a very ragged cont; 
but Socrités said to him, “* Antisthenés, 
] can see your vanity peering through the 
helea of your coat," 


Pride's e, 8 violent invasion of 


rliamentary rights by colonel Pride, in | 


(49. At the head of two regiments of 
soldiers, he surrounded the lLlouse of 
Commons, seized forty-one of the mem- 
bers, and shut out 160 others. None 
were allowed into the louse but those 
most friendly to Cromwell. This fag- 
end went by the name of “the Rump.” 


Pridwin or Pniwes, prince Arthur's 


shield. 

Artber placed a ertden helmet epon his bead. on whieh 
@es ruerareo the figure of a dregen; and on hile shoulders 
his shui! ralled Priwen. upon whieh the pletnre of the 
bie! Mary. mother of (hel wae paluted; then girding 
en hie Gaile, shkt wm an etcellant peor, made in 
Chen hale vo" Abcalloas ; the feed Lo hide right bua hie homo 
Bem, which wee hand, breed, are for nlaaghter,— 
Gacifrey, Nrifink Viatory, ln 4 (L142). 


Priest of Nature, sir Isaac Newton 
(1642-1727). 





“the nent " of Mrs. Gamp; 
equally ary, pen vulgar, ¢q 

= ~ mid Mra », Alling ber own glam, and 
passing the teapot laf pin) “1 will now propoge m toms 
Rca ot Gamp, 1 ‘ok ald Men Pris, "with 


(The). 


Theophilus of Antioch, Irensus, Clement 

x Sevan, Sree Seta 
anit “A and Tertullian. 
*," For the “ Fa 


"of the fourth 
Latix Cuvecu, 


Primrose (The Rev. Dr. Charles), 
a clergyman, rich in heavenly 
but poor indeed in all worldly knowl , 
pares a , charitable, repent} not an 
out literary vanity, especially on | 
Whistonian theory about second mar- 
riages. One admires his virtuous = 
nation against the ‘‘ washes,” which 
deliberately demolished with the poker, 
In bis prosperity, his chief “ adventares 
were by the fireside, and all his migrations 
were from the blue bed to the brown.” 

Ars. Sprnegen! Primros, the doctor's 
wife, full of motherly vanity, and desirous 
to appear genfeel. She could 
et more epelling, ems ae on her 

ousewifery, especi ou her gooseberry 
wine, dace a pally presisl of her ex- 
cellent hosband. 

(She was pai as je ee an ee 
vicar, in gown and bands, was 
to her his book on “second ering fm 


_ but when complete the picture was 


to be too large for the house.) 

Geonye Primrose, eon of the vicar. He 
went to Amsterdam to teach the Dutch 
English, but never once called to mind 


that he himself must know thing of 
| Dutch before this could be done. ie 








PROFOUND. 


an English scholastic divine (*-1304). 


Profound Doctor (The), Thomas 
Bradwardine, a schoolman. Also called 
“The Solid Doctor” (*-1349). 

Eyidius de Columna, a Sicilian school- 
man, was called ‘‘The Most Profound 
Doctor” (#1316). 


Progne (2 syl.), daughter of Pandion, 
and sister of Philoméla, Progné was 
changed into a swallow, and Philomela 
into a nightingale.— Greek Ifythology. 


As Progné or as Failomels mourns - eo. 


Prome'thean Unguent (The), 
made from the extract of a herb on 
which some of the blood of Prométheus 
(3 syl.) had fallen. Medea gave Jason 
some of this unguent, which rendered his 
body proof ayainst fire and warlike 
instruments. 


Prome’theus (3 sy/.) taught man the 
use of tire, and instructed him in archi- 
tecture, astronomy, mathematics, writing, 
rearing cattle, naviyation, medicine, the 
art of prophecy, working metal, and, 
indeed, every art known to man. The 
word means ‘‘ forethought,” and fore- 
thouvht is the father of invention. The 
tale is that he made man of clay, and, 
in order to endow his clay with life, stole 
tire from heaven and brought it to earth 
ina hollow tube. Zeus, in punishment, 
chained him to a rock, and sent an eagle 
to consume his-liver daily ; during the 
night it yrew again, and thus his torment 
was ceaseless, till Herculés shot the 
eayle, and unchained the captive. 


Lewn the while, in brief, 
That all arts came to mortals from 
K B. Browning, Prometheus Bound (1850). 


frath shall restore the light by Nature girea, 
And, like Prometheus, bring the fire from bearen. 
Campbell, ’leusures ef Hope, 1. (1790). 
*,* Percy B. Shelley has a classical 
drama entitled /’rometheus Unbound 
(1819). 


Promised Land (The), Canaan or 
Palestine. So called because God pro- 
mised to xive it to Abraham, Isaac, and 
Jacob.—Gen. xii. 7; xxvi. 8; xxviii. 
(3. 

Prompt, the servant of Mr. and 
Miss Blandish.—General Burgoyne, Zhe 
Hesress (1781). 


Pronouns. It was of Henry Mos- 
sop, tragedian (1729-1778), that Churchill 
wrote the two lines 








795 PROSERPINE. 
Profound (7he), Richard Middleton, 





In monoayllabies his thanders roll-— 

He, she, it, and we, ye, they, fright the souls 
because Mossop was fond of emphasising 
his pronouns and little words. 


Prophecy. Jourdain, the 
told the duke of Somernet, if he wish 
to live, to ‘‘ avoid where castles mounted 
stand.” The duke died in an ale-house 
called the Castle, in St. Alban's. 

Tie Castle, In Bt. Alban. Bomenet 
Hath made the wizard famous in his death. 
Shakespeare, 3 Henry V/. act v. oc. $ (L508), 

Similar prophetic equivokes were told 
to Henry IV., pope Sylvester II., and 
Cambysés (see JERUSALEM, p. 492). 

Aristoménés was told by the Delphic 
oracle to “ flee for his life when he saw a 
goat drink from the river Neda.” Con- 
sequently, all goats were driven from the 
banks of this river; but one day, Thedclos 
observed that the branches of a fig tree 
bent into the stream, and it immediately 
flashed into his mind that the Mes- 
senian word for fig tree and goat was the 
same. The pun or eguivoke will be 
better understood by an English reader if 
for goat we read ewe, and bear in mind 
that yew is to the ear the same word; 

us: 


When a ows [yew) stoops to drink of the “ Severn,” then 
And wok not bebind, for destruction is nigh. 
Prophet (Zhe), Mahomet (570-682). 


ration for their prophet. Whenever be made bis able- 

tone, they ran caught the water be had used; and 

when be licked up the spitile with 

en Tite Meham., & (thirteenth com 
Prophet Elm, an elm growing in 

Credenhill Court, belonging to the ey 

family. It is so call use one of 


the branches is said to snap off, and thus 
announce an approaching death in the 


Prophetess (The), Ayéshah, the 
second and beloved wife of Mahomet. It 


does not mean that she prophesied, bat, 
like Sultana, it is simply a © 
honour. He was the Prophet, she the 
Prophéta or Madam Prophet. 

Prose (Father of English), Wycliffe 
(1324-1384). 

Prose (Father of Greek), Herodotos 
(B.c. 484-408). 

Prose (Father of Italian), Boceaceie 
(1818-1375). 
Pros’ 

pina in 


«)s called Proser’- 


8 
ne (8 pin” by Mil- 








PROTEUS. 777 


o_—, _- 


PROVOST OF BRUGES. 





form of a white cat; the eagle in an 
instant chanyed to a wolf, and the 
cat, being hard pressed, changed into a 
worm; the wolf chanyed to a cock, and 
ran to pick up the worm, which, how- 
ever, became a fish before the cock could 
pick it up. Not to be outwitted, the 
cock transformed itself into a pike to 
devour the fish, but the fish changed into 
a tire, and the son of Eblis was burnt to 
ashes before he could make another 
change.—-Arabian Nights (“The Second 
Calender ”"’). 


Proteus or Prothews, one of the two 
gentlemen of Verona. He is in love with 
Juha. His servant is Launce, and his 
father Anthonio or Antonio. The other 

entleman is called Valentine, and his 

y-love is Silvia.—Shakespeare, Zhe 
Two Gentlemen of Verona (1594). 

Shakespeare calls the word /’ro’-té-us, 
Malone, Dr. Johnson, etc., retain the A 
in both names, but the Globe edition 
dmnits them. 


Protevangelon (‘first evange- 
dist’), a gospel falsely attributed to St. 
James the Less, first bishop of Jerusalem, 
noted for its minute details of the Virgin 
and Jesus Christ. Said to be the pro- 
duction of L. Carinus of the second cen- 
tury. 

; First of all we shall rebearss . .. 

The nativity of our Lord, 
As written in the old record 
Of the /rouferangelon, 
Longfellow, The Golden Legend (1851). 


Protocol (Mr. Peter), the attorney 
in Edinburgh employed by Mrs. Mar- 
garet Bertram of Singleside.—Sir W. 
Scott, Guy Mannering (time, George IJ.). 


Protosebastos (The) or Serasto- 
CRraTOR, the hiyhest State officer in 
Greece.—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert of 
Paris (time, Rufus). 


Protospathaire (T4c), or general 
of Alexius Comnenus emperor of Greece. 
His name is Nicanor.—Sir W. Scott, 
Count Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 


Proud (The). Tarquin II. of Rome 
was called Superbus (reigned B.c. 535- 
5lO, died 496), 

Otho LV, kaiser of Germany was called 
‘The Proud ” (1175, 1209-1218). 


Proud Duke (The), Charles Sey- 
mour duke of Somerset. His children 
were not allowed to sit in his presence ; 
and he spoke to his servants by signs 
only (* -1748). 


Proud and Mighty (The). 


A Nittle rule, a little sway, 


Proudfute (Oliver), the 
bonnet-maker at Perth. 

Maydulen or Maudie Froudfute Oliver’s 
widow.—Sir W. Scott, Fair Maid of Perth 
(time, Henry IV.). 


Prout (Father), the pseudonym of 
Francis Mahoney, a humorous writer in 
Fraser's Muyuzine, etc. (1805-1866). 


Provis, the name assumed by Abel 
Maywitch, Pip's father. He was a con- 
Vict, who had made a fortune, and whose 
chief desire was to make his son a gentle~ 
(ised). Dickens, Great Expectations 

1860). 


Provoked Husband (The), a 
comedy by Cibber and Vanbrugh. The 
‘provoked husband” is lord Townly, 
justly annoyed at the conduct of his 
young wife, who wholly neglects her 

usband and her home duties for a life 
of gambling and dissipation. The hus- 
band, seeing no hope of amendment, 
resolves on a separate maintenance ; 
but then the lady’s eyes are opened 
—she promises amendment, and is for- 
given. 

*,* This comedy was Vanbragh's 
Journey to London, left unfinished at his 
death. Cibber took it, completed it, and 
brought it out under the title of Zhe 
Procoked Husband (1728). 


Provoked Wife (The), lady Brate, 
the wife of sir John Brute, is, by his 
ill manners, brutality, and neglect, “* pro~ 
voked" to intrigue with one Constant. 
The intrigue is not of a very serious 
nature, since it is always interrupted 
before it makes head. At the conclusion, 
sir John says: 

pat Laven ites Lanes 
“ ™ ee Vantrogh (1907), 


Provost of B 8 (The), a 
based on ‘‘ The Serf,” in ack Hitehie's 


Komance of Histury. Published anony- 
mously in 1836; the author is b. 
Knowles. The plot is this: Charles 
“the Good,” earl of Flanders, made a 
law that a serf is always a serf till 
manumiitted, and whoever marries a serf 
becomes thereby a serf. Thus, if a prince 
married the daughter of a the 
prince became a serf himself, and all his 











PSYCARPAX. 790 PUDDING. 
when th tact in the convention waich —~Parnell, Battle of the Frogs and Mics, & 
assembled in the hall of (about 1713). 
Ae Afonso spe oe ae 
ou eee that of the world, he would have spared the 
carpax (ic. “ Maker of it many absurdities. 
sor oF Tenens Ling go Toe es “me Lie een nd ty intultion » «6 
frog king offered eo : young Byron, Vistow of Judgmens (688). 
sycarpax over & e3 ut a The 
hydra made its appearance, and the frog a ieagee betwee the d thes of Burgundy of thé), 
king, to save himself, dived under water, Britton and the duk eG 
whereby the mouse prince lost his life. against} = XI. 
This catastrophe brought about the fatal 
Battle of the Mice. Translated Public’ola, of the 
from the Greek into English verse by paper, rae the nom dt eee ot Mn. 
Parnell (1679-1717). illiams, a vigorous politioal w writer. 
[S’.he}, a Publi 


Psyche ost beautiful 
maiden, with whom Cupid fe fell in love. 
The god told her she was never to seek 
to know who he was; but Psyché could 
not resist the curiosity of looking at him 
as he lay asleep. A drop of the hot oil 
from Psyche's lamp falling on the love- 
god, woke him, and he instantly took to 
Hight. Psyché now wandered from place 

to place, persecuted by Venus ; but after 


enduring ineffable troubles, Cupid came 
at last to her rescue, married , and 
bestowed on her immortality. 

This exquisite allegory is from the 


frolden Ass of Apuléios. Lafontaine 
has turned it into French verse. M. 
Laprade (born 1812) has rendered it into 
French most ote The English 
version, by Mr Tushe, in six cantos, is 
simply u 

The story of Cu and Psyché is an 
allegory, meaning Ps castles castles in the air 
are cxquisite till we look at them as 
realities, when thev instantly vanish, and 
leave only disappointment and vexation 

ind. 


Ptern hus (‘ 
one of 18 ase chieftains. Parvelt 
Battle of the Frujs and Mice, iii. (about 
1712). 


Pternoph’ (‘“baoon-eater™), one 
of the mouse chieftains. 


Thro’ Drennan nevi lends the donde dag’ 
encsiled 


No nibbling prince in @aeremess mere, 
His parents fed bim on the savage bens. 
Battie Wy the Props and iftce, (about 37193 


Pternotractas (‘ 3 
father of. ‘*the meal-licker,” Lycomi 
Poye of Troxartas, thes aay ”, 

By e king o mice, was son 

sycarpasy the king of the mice, wag 20s 


Roman notion that “a 

feel no ties but duty, and know no voice 
kindred” if it conflicts with 

country’s weal. His sister was 

to Caius Curiatius, one of the three 

prepregs 

murdering 

her, for he loved Rome more then he 

loved fri sister, brother, or the 

name of — 

Father (1741). 


Pucel. Ja 
tower of ‘* Musyke.” 
sent thither by 
the seven ladies of science, fell in love 
with her, and ultimately married her. 
After his. death, Remembrance wrote his 
‘‘epitaphy on his "8. Ha 
The Passe-tyme of (1506, 


Pucelle (Za), a surnam te 
Joan of le “ Maid of Gree 
(1410-1481). 


aah, Sot c et 


in Midsummer Niyht's Dream, 
the 


him as “a very Shetlander among { 
gossanier-winged, dainty-limbed fairies, 
enough to knock all their heads 
r, @ rough, knurly-limbed, fawn- 
faced shock- -pated, mischievous little 
in.” 


He { Oteren] mestoth Puck, which most men eal 
Hobgobits, and on him doth fall, 
With words feu 


“Hoh Keb qua Mohs” Ged oa ror pum. .° 
Pudding (Jack), a gormandizing 








PUNCH. 801 


ina fit of jealousy, strangles his infant 
child, when Judy flies to her reven:re. 
With a bludgeon she belabours her 
husband, till he becomes so exas 

that he snatches the bludgeon from her, 
knocks her brains out, and flings the 
dead body into the street. Here it 
attracts the notice of a police-officer, 
who enters the house, and Punch flies to 
save hislife. He is, however, arrested by 
an officer of the Inquisition, and is shut 
up in prison, from which he escapes by a 
golden key. The rest of the allegory 
shows the triumph of Punch over slander 
in the shape of a dog, disease in the 
guise of a doctor, death, and the devil. 

Pantalune was a Venetian merchant; 
Dottore, a Bolognese physician; Spa- 
viento, a Neapolitan braggadocio; Pulli- 
cinclla, a wag of Apulia; Gianquryolo 
and Covielio, two clowns of Calabria; 
Gelsomino, a Roman beau; Beltrame, a 
Milanese sinpleton ; Brighella, a Ferrarese 
pimp; and Arlecchino, a blundering 
servant of Bergamo. Each was clad in 
an appropriate dress, had a characteristic 
mask, and spoke the dialect of the place 
he represented. 

Besides these, there were Amoroecs or 
Jnnamoratos, with their servettas or 
waiting-maids, as Sineraid.na, Columbiana, 
Spilletta, etc., who spoke Tuscan.— 
Walker, On the Revival of the Drama i 
Italy, 249. 


Punch, the periodical. The first cover 
was desizned by A. S. Henning; the 
present one by K. Doyle. 


Pure (Sinon), a Pennsylvanian 
quaker. Being about to visit London 
to attend the quarterly meeting of his 
eect, he brings with him a letter of 
introduction to Obadiah Prim, a rigid, 
stern quaker, and the guardian of Anne 
Lovely an heiress worth 000. 
Colonel Feignwell, availing himself of 
this letter of introduction, passes himself 
off as Simon Pure, and gets established 
as the accepted auitor of the heiress. 
Presently the real Simon Pure makes his 
appearance, and is treated as an impostor 
and swindler. The colonel hastens on 
the marriage arranzements, and has no 
sooner completed them, than Master 
Simon re-appears, with witnesses to prove 
his identity ; but it is too late, and colonel 
Feiznwell freely acknowledges the “‘ bold 
stroke he has mace for a wife."—Mrs, 
Centhivre, 4 Build Stroke for a Wife 
(1717). 


Purefoy | Muster), former tutor of 











PURGON. 


Dr. Anthony Rochecliffe the plotting 
royalist.—Sir W. Scott, Woodstock (time, 
Commonwealth). 

Purgato Danté, in thirty-three 
cantos tis08) avieg’ from 
hell, Danté saw in the southern hemisphere 
four stars, ‘6 ne'er cen before, save by 
our tirst parents.” stars were sym~- 
bolical of the four cardinal 
(prudence, justice, fortitude, and tem- 


Tuscan for passing through Pur- 

. Accordi with a slender reed 
Sid Cato girded nas and from his face 
he washed “all sordid stain,” 


to his face ‘“‘that hue which the dun 
shades of hell had covered and con- 
cealed” (canto i.). Danté then followed 
his, guide Virgil to a hi mountein in 
mid-ocean antipodal to Judea, began 
the ascent. A party of spirits wereferried 
over at the same time by an 

amo whom was Casella, am 

one o Danté’ . friends. ; The mountain, he 
tells us, is divi into terraces, 
terminates in Earthly Paradise, which ie 
separated from it by two rivers— 


i 


red po 

(cantoix.). The porter marked on Danté’s 
orchead seven P’s ( ‘‘sins”), and 
told him he would lose one at ev 
stare, till he reached the river whi 
divided Purgatory from Paradise. Vir- 
il continued his guide till they came to 

thé, when he left him duri 
(canto xxx.). Danté was then 
through the river Lethé, drank of the 
waters of Eunde, and met Beatrice, whu 
conducted him till he arrived af the 
‘sphere of unbodied light,” when she 
resigned her office to St. 


Purgon, one of the doctors in 
Moliere's comedy of Le Malade Jmagi- 
naire. When the patient's brother 
interfered, and sent the apothecary away 
with his clysters, Dr. Pungon got into 
a towering rage, and threatened to leave 
the house and never more to visit it. He 
then said to the patient, ‘‘Que vous 
tombiez dans la bradypepsie .. . de la 
brady pepsie dans la dyspepeie - » dels 

_ : 





PYKE AND PLUCK. 808 





One day, they resolved to attack Her- 
culés in his sleep, and went to work as in 
a siege. An army attacked each hand, 
snd the archers attacked the feet. Her- 
cules awoke, and with the paw of his lion- 
skin overwhelmed the whole host, and 
carried them captive to king Eurystheus. 

Swift has availed himself of this 
Grecian fable in his Gudliver's Travels 
(‘* Lilliput,” 1726). 

Pyke and Pluck (jfessrs.), the 
tools and toadies of sir Mulberry Hawk. 
They laugh at all his jokes, snub all who 
attempt to rival their patron, and are 
ready to swear to anything sir Mulberry 
wishes to be continned.—C. Dickens, 

richolas Nickleby (1838). 

Pylades and Orestes, inseparable 
friends. Pyladés was a nephew of king 
Agamemnon, and Orestés was Aya- 
memnon’s son. The two cousins con- 
trncted a friendship which has become 
proverbial. Subsequently, Pyladés mar- 
ried Orestés's sister Electra. 

Lagrance-Chancel has a French drama 
entitled Oreste et Pylade (1695). Voltaire 
also (Ureste, 1750). The two characters 
are introduced into a host of plays, 
(;reck, Italian, French, and English. 
(See ANDROMACHE.) 


Pyrac’mon, one of Vulcan's work- 
men inthe sinithy of mount Etna. (Greek, 
pur akinén, ‘tire anvil.”) 

Far passing Bronteus ue Pyracmon 
The wlach wu: Lipari do day and night 
Frame thuidcrbults for Jove. 
Spewer, Fudry Queen, tv. 5 (1086). 

Pyramid. According to Diodo’rus 
Sic’ulus (//ist., i.), and Pliny (Nag. 
Hist.. XxXvi. 12), there were 360,000 
men employed for nearly twenty years 
upon one of the pyramids. 

The largest pyramid was built by 
Cheops or Suplus, the next largest by 
Cephrenes or Sen-Suphis, and the third 
by Mencherés last king of the fourth 
Eyevptian dynasty, said to have lived 
before the birth of Abraham. 

Lhe Third Pyramid. Another tradition 
is that the third pyramid was built by 
khodopis or Rhodope, the Greek courtezan, 
Rhodopis means the “ rosy-cheeked.” 

The Rbodups that built the pyramid. 
Tennyson, Take Prencess, iL (1890). 

Pyramid of Moxico. This pyramid 
is saul to have been built in the reign of 
Montezuma emperor of Mexico (1466- 
1520), 1ts base is double the size of 
Cheops’s pyramid, that is, 1423 feet each 
side, but its heixht does not exceed 164 
fvet. 1¢ stands west of Puebla, faces the 





PYTHAGORAS. 


four cardinal points, was used as a 
mausoleum, and is usually called “The 
Pyramid of Cholula.” 

Pyr’amos (in Latin Pyrdmus), the - 
loved of Thisbé. Supposing Thisbé had 
been torn to pieces by a lion, Pyramos 
stabs himself in his unutterable grief 
‘under a mulberry tree.” Here Thisbé 
finds the dead body of her lover, and 
kills herself for grief on the same s 
Ever since then the juice of this fruit 
been blood-stained.—Greek Mythology. 

Shakespeare has introduced a burlesque 
of this pretty love story in his Midsunmuner 
Nwt's Dream, but. Ovid has told the tala 
beautifully. 


Pyre’ni, the Pyrenees. 
Who . 
2 [Henry V-] by bis conquering sword should al the 








Pyrgo Polini’ces, an extzavagant 
blusterer. (The word means “‘ tower and 
town taker.”)—Plautus, Sides Gloriosus. 

If the modern reader knows nothing of Pyrgo Paliuicé’s 
and Thraw, Pistol and Paruliés; if he is shut out from Ne- 

Juccyyia, be may refuge in Lilliput. —Macaulay. 

*,* ‘‘Thraso,” a bully in Terence 

The Eunuch) ; ‘ Pistol,” in the Merry 

‘wes of Windsor and 2 Henry LV. ; 
‘*Parolles,” in All's Well that Ends Well ; 
** Nephelo-Coccyyia” or cloud cuckoo- 
town, in Aristuphanés (The Birds) ; and 
** Lilliput,” in Swift (Gulliver's Travels). 

Py’rocles (8 syl.) and his brother 
Cy’moclés (3 sy/.), sons of Acra’tés (in- 
continence). The two brothers are about 
to strip sir Guyon, when prince Arthur 
comes up and slays both of them.— 
Spenser, fuery Queen, ii. 8 (1590). 


Pyroc’les and Musidorus, heroes, 
whose exploits are told by sir Philip 
Sidney in his Arcadia (1581). 

Pyr'rho, the founder of the sceptics 
or Pyrrhonian school of philosophy. He 
was a native of Elis, in Peloponne’sus, 
and died at the aye of 90 (B.c. 285). 

It is a pleasant vuyage, perhaps, to floal, 
Like Pyrrbo, on a soa of speculation. 
Byron, Len Juan, ix. 18 (1898. 

*,*° ‘‘Pyrrbonism” means absolute and 
unlimited intidelity. 

Pythag’oras, the Greek philosopher 
who’ ie og to have invented the lyre 
from hearing the sounds produced by a 
blacksmith hammering iron on bis anvil. 
—Sce Lictionary of Phrase and Fable, 722, 

Standing beside the bzohomaith’s doen, 








Mer majesty sure waa in a eurprisa, 
Or ebe was very 

Whea a tinker wa: sworn to bok after her 
And the mountebank tallor was knighted. 


(The ‘‘mountebank tailor” was Dr. 
Read ; see below.) 

Hancock (Dr.), whose panaces was 
cold water anid stewed prunes, 

*,° Dr. Sandgradv prescribed hot water 
and stewed applics.—Lesave, Gi Blas. 

Dr. Rezio of Barataria would allow 
Sancho Panza to eat only ‘a few wafers, 
and a thin slice or two of quince.”—Cer- 
vantes, Don Quirote, II. iii. 10 (1615). 

Hannes (Dr.), knighted by queen 
Anne. He was born in Oxfordshire. 


The queen, like heaven, shines equally oa all, 

Her favours auw without distinction fall, 

Grent lewd. and slender Hannes, buth knighted, shew 
noae their shall to merit owe. 

4 Polizioul Squtd of the Ported. 


Hotitowar (Profestor), noted for his 
ointment to cure all strumous affections, 
his digestive pills, and his enormous 
expenditure in advertising (nineteenth 
century). Llulloway’s ointment is an 
imitauon of Albinolo's; being analyzed 
by order of the French law-courts, it was 
declared to consist of butter, lard, waz, 
and Venice turpentine. His pills are 
made of alves, julup, yinjer, and myrrh. 

Katerrenuto (Dr.), the influenza 
doctor. He was a tall man, dressed in 
a black gown and square cap, and 
was orivinally a common soldier in the 
Prussian service. In 1782 he exhibited 
in London his solar microscope, and 
created immense excitement by showing 
the infusoria of muddy water, ete. Dr. 
Katerfelto used to say that he was the 
greatest philosopher aince the time of sir 
saac Newton. 


And Katerfelto with bf halr on end. 
At hls own wonders. wordering f r his bread, 
Cowper, The fast (“The Wiuter Eveuing.” 17ai}. 


Litty (William), astrologer, born at 
Diseworth, in Leicestershire (1602-1681), 

Lona (st. Join), born at Newcastle, 
beyan life as an artist, but afterwards 
set up as a curer of consumption, rheue 
matism, and gout. His profession brought 
him wealth, and he lived in Harley St 
Cavendish Square, St. John Long di 
himself of rapid consumption (1798-1834). 

Marr (A/rs.), bone-setter. She was 
born at Epsom, and at one time was very 
rich, but she died in great poverty at her 
lodvings in Seven Dials, 1737. 

*,* Hogarth has introduced her in his 
heraldic picture, ‘‘The Undertakers’ 
Arms.” She is the middle of the three 
ficures at the top, and is holding a bone 
in her hand. 


QUACKS. Bus 


QUACKS. 


Moors (Ar. John), of the Pestle and 
Mortar, Abchurch Lane, immortalized by 
his ‘‘worm-powder,” and the 
** Worm Doctor” (died 1733). 

Wynn ty rte a 
Pope, Te Mr. John Moore (173%). 

Mortsow (Dr.), famous for his pills 
(consisting of aloes and cream of tarlar, 

ual parts). Professor Holloway, Dr. 

orison, and Rowland maker of hair oil 
and tooth-powder, were the greatest ad- 
vertisers of the nineteenth century. 
‘ alme- 





PaRTRIDGE, cobbler, astrolo 
nac-maker, and quack (died 1708} 
Weep, all customers who usp 
His pills, bis almanacs, or shoes. 
Swift, Slegy, ofa. 


Reap (Sir William), a tailor, who set 
np for oculist, and was knighted by queen 
Anne. This quack wasemploved both by 
queen Anne and George I. Sir William 
could not read. He pro: to cure 
wry-necks, and hare-lips (died 1715). 

honours shall to merit ewe— 


ao knight; 


2 8 
Ralph Montagu, son of Edward Mon- 
tag created viscount in 1682, and duke 
of Montagu in 1705 (died 1709). 

Rock (Dr. Richard) professed to cure 
every disease, at any sage thereof. Ac- 
cording to his bills, * your disorder 
never so far gone, I can cure you.” He 
was short in stature and fat, always wore 
a white three-tailed wig, nicely combed 
and frizzed upon each cheek, carried a 
cane, and waddled in his gait (eighteenth 
century). 


Dr. Rock, F.U.N., never woreahat Hels drawn 
at the of bis own bills pitting la an araschair, 
a little bottle between his finger and thumb, and asf 
rounded! with rotten teeth, alppers, 
Guidsmith, 4 Citizen of the Werid, txvill. (1788). , 


Suirn (Dr.), who went about the 
country in the eighteenth century in his 
coach with four outriders. He dreseed in 
black velvet, and cured any disease for 
sixpence. ‘‘ His amusements on the cg 
were well worth the sixpence which 
charged for his box of piils.” 

As | was sitting at the George inn, I awa coach with 
oly bay horses. « calesh and (vss. a chalne and four, cater 
on domnen on . in Moe trier with fiver. 
As yellow la the civess by the 
Went ows to see what duke it was, but was 
on the coach, only a mn Gont-.-arme, With the motte 
Sree itd ihe pd ae 
mruntabaal named Smith.—4 Tour through 


So.omoy (Dr.), eighteenth century. 





Queen Dick, Richard Cromwell 

(1626, 1658-1660, died 1712). 
t happened in the reign of queen 

Dw, never, on the Greek halends. ‘This 
does not refer to Richard Cromwell, but 
to queen ‘‘QOutis.” There never was a 
queen Dick, except by way of joke. 

Queen Sarah, Sarah Jennings 
ducness of Marlborough (1660-1744). 
ducer, Anne only reigned, while queen Barah governed. 

Queen Square Hermit, Jeremy 
Rentham, 1, Queen Square, London 
(1748-1832). 

Queen of Hearts, Elizabeth Stuart 
daughter of James I., the unfortunate 
queen of Bohemia (1596-1662). 


Queen of Heaven, Ashtoreth (‘‘the 
moon"). Horace calls the moon ‘the 
two-horned queen of the stars.” 

Some speak of the Virgin Mary as 
** the queen of heaven." 


Queen of Queens. Cleopatra was 
eo called by Mark Antony (B.c. 69-80). 


Queen of Song, Angelica Catala’ni ; 
also called ‘‘The Italian Nightingale” 
(1782-1849). 

Quevun of Sorrow (The Marble), 
the nauscleum built by shah Jehan to his 
favourite wife Moomtaz-i-Mahul. 


Queen of Tears, Mary of Mo’dena, 
second wife of James II. of England 
(1658-1718). ; 

Her eyes became eternal fountains of sorrow for that 


grown her own ill policy contributed to lose.—Nobdle, 
Memoirs, ete (1784). 


Queen of the Antilles [Aa.tee/], 


Uva. 

Queen of the East, Zenobia queen 
o° Palmy’ra (*, 266-273). 

Queen of the Eastern Archi- 
pelago, the island of Java. 


Queen of the Mississippi 
Valley, St. Louis of Missouri. 


Queen of the North, Edinburgh. 
Queen of the Sciences, theology. 


Queen of the Sea. So ancient Tyre 
was called. 


Queen of the South, Maqueda or 
Balkis queen of Sheba or Saba. 


The queen of the seuth . . . came from the attermost 
parts of the earth tw hear the wisdom of Solomon.—-Mads. 
wih 42; ose also 1 Ainge x. 1 


*.* According te tradition, the queen 





QUEEN DICK. 807 


> pe ee ee ee eee 


the French, because she dressed in white 
as mourning for her husband. 


QUERPO. 


of the south had a son by Solomon named 
Melech, who reigned in Ethiopia or 
Abyssinia, and added to his name the 
words Belul Gian (‘‘ precious stone’), 
alluding to a ring given to him by Solo- 
mon. Belul Gian translated into Latin 
became pretiosus Jounnes, which got cor- 
rupted into Prester John (presbyter Jo~ 
hannes), and has given rise to the fables 
of this ‘‘ mythical king of Ethiopia.” 


Queen of the Swords. Minna 
Troil was so called, because the gentle- 
men, formed into two lines, held their . 
swords so as to form an arch or roof 
under which Minna led the ladies of the 
perty.— Sit W.. Scott, Zhe Pirate (time, 

liam IIT.). 

*,* In 1877 W. Q. Orchardson, R.A., 
exhibited a picture in illustration of this 
incident. 

Queens (Four daughters). Raymond 
Ber’enger count of Provence had four 
daughters, all of whom married kings: 
Margaret married Louis IX. of France; 
Eleanor married Henry II}. of England ; 
Sancha married Henry's brother Richard 
king of the Romans; and Beatrice mar- 
ried Charles I. of Naples and Sicily. 


Four ters were there born 
To Raym Ber’enger, and every one 
Became a queen. 
Danté, Paradése, vi. (1311). 
Queerummania, the realm of Chro- 
nonhotonthologos.—Carey, CAr 
tholoyos (1734). 


Quentin (Black), groom of sir John 
Ramomy.—Sir W. Scott, Fair Maid of 
Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Quentin Durward, a novel by sir 
W. Scott (1823). A story of French his- 
tory. The delineations of Louis XJ. and 
Charles the Bold of Burgundy will stand 
comparison with any in the whole range 
of fiction or history. 


Quern-Biter, the sword of Haco I. 
of Norway. 
-biter of Hacon the Good 
herewith at a stroke he bewed 
The millstone thro’ and thro’. 


Querno (Camillo) of Apulia was in- 
troduced to pope Leo X. asa buffoon, but 
was promoted to the laurel. This laureate 
was called the ‘‘ Antichrist of Wit.” 


Rome tn her capitol maw Querno sit, 
Throned on seven hills, the antichrist of wit. 
Pope, The Dunciad, il. 


Querpo (Shrili), in Garth's Die 
pensary, is meant for Dr. Howe. 


To this design shrill Querpo did agrea, 
A seslous member of the faculty. 





ous 


QUILDRIVE. 


bat when they fall into the stream, Flat- 
tery scrawls Hic jucet on a stone, but no 
one misses them. 


Quildrive (2 sy/.), clerk to old Phil- 

t ‘the citizen.”"—Murphy, The Citizen 
fiz61). 

Quilp (anicl), a hideous dwarf, 
cunning, malicious, and a perfect master 
in tormenting. Of hard, forbidding fea- 
tures, with head and face large enough 
fora giant. His black eves were rest- 
less, sly, and cunning; his mouth and 
chin. bristly with a coarse, bard beard ; 
Lis face never clean, but always distorted 
with a ghastly prin, which showed the 
few discoloured fangs that supplied 
the place of teeth. lis dress consisted 
of a large hish-crowned hat, a worn-out 
dark suit, a pair of most capacious shoes, 
and a huge crumpled dirty white neck- 
cloth. Such hair as he had was a grizzled 
black, cut short but hanzing about his 
ears in frinzes. His hands were coarse 
and dirty ; his finger-nails cruoked, long, 
and yellow. He lived on Tower Hill, 
collected rents, advanced money to sea- 
men, and kept a sort of wharf, conta‘nin 
rusty anchors, huge iron rings, piles o 
rotten wood, and sheets of old copper, 
calling himself a ship-breaker. He was 
on the point of beiny arrested for felony, 
when he drowned himself. 


He ate hard cezs. sheil and ail. for his breakfast, de- 
voured gicuntic prawne with thelr hewis and tails on, 
chewe } tot acco and wouter cresees at the same thine, drank 
shies bot ten witho it winaing, bit his fork and spoon 
tul they bent again, ant performed so many burrifying 
acts Usat ove mi,lt doubt Lt be were indeed buman.— 

v 


Jf{rs. Quilp (Betsy), wife of the dwarf, 
a loving, young, timid, obedient, and 
retty blue-eved lithe woman, treated 
ike a dog by her diabolical husband, 
whom she really loved but more greatly 
feared.—C, Dickens, Zhe Old Curwsity 
Sep CES), . 

Quinap‘alus, the Mrs. Harris of 
authorities in citations.” If any one 
quotes from an hypothetical author, he 
gives Quinapalus as his authority, 


What ase Quirapalas: “ Better a witty fuol than a 
fovlishs wit - Shantrpeure, Teeth Night, act L wce.5 (1614). 


Quinbus Flestrin (‘‘the man- 
mowniun”’), So the Lilliputians called 
Gulliver (ch. it.).— Swift,  (rudlicer's 
Traccés ( Voyage to Lilliput,” 1726). 

Quince (/\ter), a carpenter, who 
undertakes the manayement of the pla 
called © Pyramus and Thisbe,” in by 
stn r NGACs Drea. We speaks of 
“Vnuchable  trazedy," — ** lamentable 
comedy,” ‘‘ tragical mirth,” and so on.— 








QUIXOTE. 


Shakespeare, 2fidsummer Night's Dream 
(1592). 

Quino’nes (Suero de), in the reign of 
Juan II. He, with nine other cavaliers 
held the bridge of Orbigo against all 
comers for thirty-six days, and in that 
time they overthrew  seventy-eight 
knights of Spain and France, 


Quintano’na, the duenna of queen 
Guinever or Ginebra.—Cervantes, Don 
Quixote, II. ii. 6 (1615). 


Quintessence (Queen), sovereign uf 
Enteléchie, the country of speculative 
Science visited by Pantag’rue! and his 
companions in their search for ‘** the 
oracle of the Holy Bottle.”—Rabelais, 
Pantayruel, v. 19 (1545). 


Quint’essence of Heaven. Be- 
sides the four elements of earth, Aristotle 
imagined a fifth element, out of which 
the stars and other cthereal bodies were 
formed. The motion of this ‘ quint- 
essence,” he said, was orbicular. 

-.. this ethereal ** quintessence of heaven ” 
Flew upward, -pirited with various furma, 
That rolled orb. , and turned to stars 
Numberleas. 

Milton, Paradies Lest, iif. 716, ote. (1683). 

Quin’tiquinies’tra (Queen), a much- 
dreaded, fighting giantess. It was one of 
the romances in don Quixote's library 
condemned by the priest and barber of 
the village to be burnt.—Cervantes, Dun 
Quisute, I. (1605). 


Quintus Fixlein [Fiz.tine], the 
title and chief character of a romance by 
Jean Paul Friedrich Richter (1798). 
Francia like Quintus Fizlein. bad perennial Areproof 
Joys, nawel), employments —Carlyle. 
Quiri’nus, Mars. 
Now, by our sire Quirinas, 
It was a good!) sisht 
To see the thirty standards 
Swi pt duwn the thie of Ailght, 
Lard Macaulay, Lays af Ancient ome ("* Battle of 


the Lake Megillus,” xxx01., 1843). 


Quitam (J/r.), the lawyer at the 
Black Bear inn at Darlington.—Sir W. 
Scott, ub Roy (time, George I.). 

*,* The tirst two words in an action 
on a penal statute are Qui tam. Thus, 
Qui tam pro dununa reyina, quam pro 
Seipso, sequitur. 

Quixa’da (Gutierre), lord of Villa- 
garcia. Don (Quixote calls himself a 
descendant of this brave knight.—Crr- 
ventes, Don Quirote, I. (1606). 


Quix’ote (Don), a gaunt country 
gentleman of La Mancha, about 50 years 
of aye. gentle and diynified, learned and 
high-minded; with strong imayination 











RABELAIS. 


Rabelais (The Modern), William Ma- 
ginn (1794-1842). 


Rabelais of Germany, J. Fischart, 
ealled ‘‘ Mentzer” (1550-1614). 


Rabelais’s Poison. Rabelais, being 
at a great distance from Paris, and with- 
out money to pay his hotel bill or his 
fare, made up three small kets of 
‘brick-dust. ne he labelled ‘‘ Poison 
for the king,” another *‘ Poison for mon- 
sieur,” and the third ‘* Poison for the 
dauphin.” The landlord instantly in- 
formed against this ‘‘ poisoner,” and the 
secretary of state removed him at once to 
Paris. When, however, the joke was 
found out, it ended only in a laugh.— 
Spectator (‘‘ Art of Growing Rich”). 


Rab'’ican or Rabica’no, the horse 
of Astolpho. Its sire was Wind and its 
dam Fire. It fed on human food. The 
word means ‘short tail.”—Ariosto, Or- 
dando Furivso (1516). 

*,* Argalia’s horse is called by the 
game name in Orlando Jnnamorato (1495). 


Rabisson, a vagabond tinker and 
knife-grinder. He was the only person 
who knew about “the gold-mine” left to 
the ‘miller of Grenoble.” Rabisson was 
murdered for his secret by Eusebe Noel 
the schoolmaster of Bout des Monde.—E. 
Stirling, Zhe Gold-Mine or Miller of 
Grenoble (1854). 


Rab’sheka (in the Bible Ras- 
SHAKEH), in the satire of Absalom and 
Achituphel, by Dryden and Tate, is meant 
for sir Thomas Player (2 Ainys xviii.). 

Scena ee 
Pt. i (1689), 

Raby (Aurora), a rich young English 
orphan, catholic in religion, of virgin 
modesty, ‘‘a rose with all its sweetest 
leaves yet folded.” She was staying in 
the house of lord and lady Amundeville 
during the parlinmentary vacation. Here 
don Juan, ‘‘ as Kussian envoy,’ was also 
@ guest, with several others. Aurora 
Raby is introduced in canto xv., and 
crops up here and there in the two re- 
maiming cantos; but, as the tale was 
never finished, it is not possible to divine 
what part the beautiful and innocent girl 
was designed by the poet to play. Pro- 
bably don Juan, having sown his ‘ wild 
oats," might become a not untit match 
for the beautiful orphan.—Byron, Don 
Juan (1824). 


Raby (ie Rose of), the mother of 
Richard IlI. She was Cecily, daughter 





811 





RADEGONDE. 


of Ralph Nevyll de Raby first earl of 
Westmoreland. Her husband was Richard 
duke of York, who was slain at the batt e 
of Wakefield in 1460. She died 1495. 


Rachael, a servant-girl at lady 
Peveril’s of the Peak.—Sir W. Scott, 
Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Ra'chael (2 syl.), one of the ‘hands’ 
in Bounderby’s mill at Coketown. She 
loved Stephen Blackpool, and was greatly 
beloved by him in return; but Stephen 
was married to a worthless drunkard. 
After the death of Stephen, Rachael 
watched over the good-for-nothing young 
widow, and befriended her.—C. Dickens, 
Hard Times (1854). 


Racine of Italy (The), Metastasio 
(1698-1782). (2M), 

Racine of Music (The), Antonio 
Gaspare Sacchini of Naples (1735-1786). 


Racket (Sir Charles), a young man 
of fashion, who has married the daughter 
of a wealthy London merchant. In the 
third week of the honeymoon, sir Charles 
paid his father-in-law a visit, and quar- 
relled with his bride about a game of 
whist. The lady affirmed that sir Charles 
ought to have played a diamond instead 
of aclub. Sir Charles grew furious, and 
resolved upon a divorce ; but the quarrel 
was adjusted, and sir Charles ends by 
saying, ‘‘ You may be as wrong as you 
please, but I'll be cursed if I ever endea- 
vour to set you right again.” 

Lady Racket, wife of sir Charles, and 
elder daughter of Mr. Drugget.— Murphy, 
Three Weeks after Marriage (1776). 


Racket (Widow), @ sprightly, good- 
natured widow and woman of fashion. 


A coquetts, a wit. and a fine lady.—Mra, Cowley, The 
Beile’s stratagem, ib. 1 (1780). 


The “Widow Racket” was one of Mra Pope's bess 
Her usual manner of expressing t careless. 
peas consisted in torsing her head from right to left, and 
striking tha palm of one hand with the back of the other 
(4740-1.97 }) —James Snith, 
Rackrent (Sir Condy), in Miss 
worth’s novel of Castle Rackrent (1802). 


Raddle (Jfrs.), keeper of the lodgings 
occupied by Bob Sawyer. The youn 
medical practitioner invited Mr. Pickwic 
and his three friends to a convivial meet- 
ing; but the termagant Mrs. Raddle 
brought the meeting to an untimely end. 
—C. Dickens, Zhe Pickwick Papers 
(1836). 

Rad’egonde (S.) or St. Rapecunp, 
queen of France (born 519, died 587). She 
was the daughter of Bertaire king ef 











RALPH. 818 





RAMIRO, 





eutlandish, ignorant booby, jealous of 
his sister Patty, because she “‘could paint 
picturs and strum on the harpasicols.” He 
was in love with Fanny the gi 
which ‘‘ feyther" was an ith hi j 
but ‘‘what argufies feyther's anger? 
However, he treated Fanny like a brute, 
and she said of him, ‘‘ He has a heart as 
hard asa parish officer. I don't doubt bat 
he would stand by and see me whipped.” 
When his sister married lord Aimworth, 
Ralph said : 
Ralph my lord will dub ma, 


Ca 
I'll mount a cockade ; 
Moun-cer shall im 


» for 


who 
ertaff, The Meld of the MUS (1007). 


Ralph or Katpio, the 'aquire of Hadi- 
bras. Fully described in bk. i. 457-644. 
—S. Butler, Hudibras (1663-78). 

The prototype of ‘‘ Ralph” was Isaac 
Robinson, a zealous butcher in Moorfields. 
Ralph represents the independent party, 
and Iudibras the presbyterian. 

*,* In regard to the pronunciation of 


this name, which in 1873 was the subject 
i and 


of a long cuntroversy in 
Queries, Butler says: 
Tint ins adventure went Ris hall; og 
Wivahin Eee ae En, 
Bk. 1 GB 
Ralph (Rough), the helper of Lance 
Outram park-kee at sir Geoffrey 
FPeveril’s of the Peak.—Sir W. Scott, 
Peteril of the Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Ralph (James), an American who came 
to London and published a poem entitled 
Night (1725). 

Silence, ye wolves! while Ralph to Cyothia howls, 
Making night hideous ; answer bin, ye owls 
Pope, Tue Dunciad, ill 165 (1738). 

Ralph [px Lascours], captain of the 
Uran'a, husband of Louise de Lascours. 
Ralph is the father of Diana and Martha 
elias Urgari’ta, His crew having re- 
belled, Ralph, his wife, infant [Martha], 
and servant Bar’abas were put into a 
boat, and turned adrift. Ralph boat ran 
on a huge iceberg, whi supposed 
to be asmall island. In time, the feeberg 
broke, when Ralph and his wife were 
drowned, but Martha and bas 
escaped. Martha was taken by an 
Indian tribe, who brought her up, and 
named her Oryarita (‘‘ withered corn”), 
becaure her skin was so white and fair.— 
rt goitirling, Orphan of the Frosen Sea 

Je 


Ralph Roister Doister, by 
Nicholas Udall, the first English comedy 
about 1584. It contains nine male and 
four female characters. Ralph is a vain, 
thoughtless, blustering fellow, who is in 

rsuit of a rich widow named Custance, 

he is baffled in his intention. 

Ram Alley, in Fleet Street, London. 
Now called Hare Place. It was part of 
the Sanctuary. 


Ramble (Sr Roberf), a man of 
gallantry, who treats his wife with such 
supreme indifference that she returns to 
her guardian, lord Norland, and resumes 
her maiden name of Maria Wooburn. 
Subsequently, however, she returns to 
her husband. 

Mrs. Ramble, wife of sir Ro and 
ward of lord Norland.—Inchbeld, 
One has His Fault (1794). 


Ram/‘iel (8 syi.), one of the “atheist 
crew” o’erthrown by Ab’diel. (The word 
means, according to Hume, ‘one whe 
exalts himself against God.” 

Paradise Lost, vi. 871 (1665). 


Raminago’bris. Lafontaine, in his 
fables, gives this name to a cat. Rabe- 
lais, in his Pantag’ruel, iii. 21, satirizes 
under the same name (Guillaume 
@ poet. 

Rami'res, s Spanish monk 
father confessor to don joan duk 

raganza. @ promised elasquez, 
when he absolved the duke at bed-time, 
to give him a poisoned wafer prepared by 
the Carmelite Castruccio. This he was 
about to do, when he was interru 
and the breaking out of the rebellion 
saved the duke from any similar attempt. 
—Robert Jephson, Brayansa (1775). 


Rami'ro (Aim) married Aldonsza, 
who, being faithless, eloped with Alboa’- 
gar the Moorish king of Gaya. Ra- 
miro came disguised as°a traveller to 
Alboazar’s castle, and asked a damsel for 
a draught of water, and when he lifted 
the pitcher to his mouth, he dropped in 
it his betrothal ring, which Aldonza saw 
and recoynized. She told the damsel to 
bring the stranger to her apartment. 
Searce had he arrived there when the 
Moorish king entered, and Ramiro hid 
himself in analcove. ‘* What would 
do to Ramiro,” asked Aldonza, “if he 
were in your power?” “I would hew 
him limb from limb,” said the Moor. 
*¢ Then lo! Alboazar, he is now sk 
fa that alcove.” With this, Ramiro was 


aad 
e of 








RANTIPOLE. 





Ran'tipole (8 syi.), a madcap. One 
ef the nicknames given to Napoleon III. 
(See Napo.ros III.) 

| Pee. VGolman, Met ar-Low, 0 9 (7S 

Raoul [Rarol}, the old huntsman of 
sir Raymond Berenger.—Sir W. Scott, 
The Betrothed (time, Henry IT.). 

Raoul di Nan (Sir), the 
huguenot in love with Valentina (daughter 
of the comte de St. Bris, governor of the 
Louvre). Sir Raoul is offered the hand 
of Valentina in marriage, but rejects it 
because he fancies she is betrothed to the 
comte de Nevers. Nevers being slain 
in the Bartholomew Massacre, Raoul 
marries Valentina, but scarcely is the 
ceremony over when both are shot by 
the musketeers under the command of 
St. Bris.—Meyerbeer, Les Huguenots 
(opera, 1886). 

Raphael (2 or 8 syl.), called by 
Milton, ‘The Sociable Spirit,” and “ The 
Affable Archangel.” In the book of Tobit 
it was Raphael who ‘ravelled with Tobias 
into Media and bac: again ; and it is the 
same angel that holds discourse with 
Adam through two books of Paradise 
‘*Riphacl, the guardian gel of John 

m , the an 
the Leloved. 

*,* Longfellow calls Raphael ‘ The 
Angel of the Sun,” and says that he bri 
to man ‘the fits of faith.”—G 
Legend (*‘ Miracle-Play,” iii., 1851). 


Baphaed (The Flemish), Frans Floris. 
Hi chief works are ‘“‘St. Luke at His 
Ease],” and the ‘‘ Descent of the Fallen 
Angels,” both in Antwerp 
(1520-1570). 


Raphael ( The French), Eustace Lesneur 
(1617 1655). h 


Raphael of Cats (The), Godefroi 
Mind, a Swiss painter, famous for his cats 
(1768-1814). 


Raphael of Holland (The), Mar- 
tin van Ilemskerck (1498-1574). 


Rapheael’s Enchanter, La Forna- 
rina, a baker’s daughter. Her likeness 
uppears in several of his paintings. (See 
FORNARINA.) 


Rapier (7he) was introduced 
Rowlend Tork in eer ty 


Me | Zow tand Terk] was 0 Londoner, famous among 
cutters in he time for bringing io a new ised 

t—t@ FER prin a rapler mon's body... 
that time the we was with Ietle bucklers, and 
breadswerds tp strike and never thrust, and it wns 


att 


816 





RAT WITHOUT A TAIL 


escounted strike ander the e 
wnmanly te girdle —Cartela. 

Rare Ben. Bon Jonson, the drama 
tist, was so called by Robert Herriek 
(1574-1637). 


Raredrench Master), spothecary. 
shi W, Seth Fortune @ igel (time, 
ames 1.)}. 


Rascal, worthless, lean. A rascal 
deer is a lean, poor stag. Brutus calls 
money ‘rascal counters,” £6, contemp- 
tible, ignoble. 


Ghakeopenre, Julies Cesar, ast iv, on. 8 (1807) 
Rashleigh Osbaldistone, called 

*¢the scholar,” an hypocritical and 

accomplished villain hill by 


ed Rob e 
—Sir W. Scott, Rob Roy (time, Geos 
“‘a,e Su 


rely never gentleman was 

plaued with such a family as sir Hil- 
ebrand Osbaldistone of Osbaldistone 
Hall, (1) Percival, “‘the sot;” (2) 
Thorncliff, ‘‘the bully ;” (8) John, “the 
mekeeper ; (4) Richard, “the horse- 
jockey ;” (5) Wilfred, “the fool ;* 
(6) Rashleigh, “the scholar and knave.” 
Ras’selas, prince of Abyssinia, 
fourth son of the emperor. According to 
the custom of the country, be was con- 
fined in « private paradise, with the rest 


of the roval family. ise was 
in the ey of Am surrounded by 
high mountains. It had only one en- 
trance, which was by a cavern under 


a rock concealed by woods, and closed by 
iron gates. He escaped with his sister 
Nekayah and Imlac the poet, and 
wandered about to find out what con- 
dition or rank of life was the most happy. 
After careful investigation, he found no 
lot without its drawbacks, and resolved 
to return to the “‘happy valley.”—Dr. 
Johnson, Rasselas (1759). 


The mad thet he pemened 
the regulation of the weather the distribution of the 
sensues, is an ie romance; and the 


original 
**happy valley,” im which Rasselas resides, ip shotehed 
with poetic feeling. — Young. 


Rat. One of the richest provinces of 
Holland was once inund by a hole 
made in the dykes by a single water-rat. 


Rat without a Tail. Witches 
could assume any animal form, bat the 
tail was ever wanting. Th @ end 
Without a tall, wore out a tall, a dog 
without @ were witch forms.—BSee 
Macbeth, act i, os. 8. 





ee 


RAVENSWOOD. 





SS emer 


817 


READY-TO-HALT. 





a OO 


Bo yoo think 
I bonour you so mech as save your throat 
From the ravenstone, by eboking you myself? 
Byron, Werner, i. 2 (Lace. 


Ravenswood (Allan ford of), a 
decayed Scotch nobleman of the royalist 


party. 

Master Edjar Ravenswood, the son of 
Allan. In love with Lucy Ashton, 
daughter of sir William Ashton lord- 
keeper of Scotland. The lovers plight 
their troth at the “* Mermaid's Fountain," 
but Lucy is compelled to marry Frank 
Haveton laird of Bucklaw. The bride, 
in a fit of insanity, attempts to murder 
the bridegroom, and dies in convulsions. 
Bucklaw recovers, and goes abroad, 
Colonel Ashton appoints a hostile meet- 
ing with Edgar; but young Ravenswood, 
on his way to the place appointed, is lost 
in the quicksands of Keljiea Flow, in 
accordance with an ancient prophecy.— 
Sir W. Scott, Bride of Lammermoor (time, 
William ITT.). 

*,* In Donizetti's opera of Lucia di 
Lammermoor, Wucklaw dies of the wound 
inflicted by the bride, and Edgar, heart- 
broken, comes on the stage and kills 
himself, 


The cataairophe Ini the Aride af (Lam mer ener, where 
(Flyer) Ravenuwool ls ewalhere toy bv cei! eed, ba 
Gugularty grand in romance bot weuld be Inedroisdble 
tina li —Berve, Ori., Art Lomanee” 


Rawhead and Blood y Bones, 
two boyies or bugbears, renerally coupled 
together. 

employed to Arsignate one and the 
same ‘‘ shadowy sprite.” 


Servants awe children... by telling them of Raw- 
bead and Bien) y-bone.—Loche 


Rayland (Jrs.), the domineering 
lady of the Old Manur- House, by Charlotte 
Smith (1749-1806), 

Mra, [avlind fs = sort of queen Elizabeth in privale 
Bfe.—Bir W. Soult 


Raymond, count of Toulouse, the 
Nestor of the crusaders. Te slays 
Aladine king of Jerusalem, and plants 
the (hristian standard on the tower of 
Daviil.—Tasso, Jerusulem Delivered, xx. 
(loli). 

*.” Introduced by sir W. Scott in 
Count Robert of Paris, a novel of the 
period of Kufus. 


Ruymond (Sir Charles), a country 
gentleman, the friend and neighbour of 
sir Kobert Lelimont. 

Colonel Jtityimamd, sen of sir Charles, 
in love with Rosetta Belmont. Being 
diffident and modest, Rosetta delights in 
tormenting him, and he is jealous even of 


85 


In some cases the phrase is | 


| journey 





William Faddle ‘a fellow made up of 
knavery, noise, and impudence," 
Harriet Raymond, daughter of sir 
Charles, whose mother diced in giving 
her birth, She was committed to the 
care of a governante, who changed her 
name to Fidelis, wrote to sir Charles to 
say that she was dead, and sold her at 
the age of 12 to a villain named Villard. 
Charles Delmont, hearing her cries of 
distress, rescued her and took her home. 
The governante at death confessed the 
truth, and Charles Belmont married her, 
—Edward Moore, The Foundling (1748), 


Raz’eka, the giver of food, one of 
the four guds of the Adites (2 ayl.). 
We called on Razeks for ford, ; 
Boutbey, Tha/aba the Destroyer, |. 34 (1797). 


Razor, a barber who could “ think 
of nothing but poor old England.” He 
was the friend and neighbour of Qnid- 
nunc the upholsterer, who was equally 
crazy about the political state of the 
nation, and the affairs of Euro in 
general. — Murphy, Zhe Uphoisterer 
(1758). 


Raror (To cut blocks with a). Oliver 
Goldsmith said of Edward Burke, the 
statesman : 

Too deep for his hearers, be went on refining, 

Ard Uvracht of convincing, while they thought af dining; 

Tho’ eqral to al) things, to all things unfit ; 

Too nice for a statestuan, too prowl for a wit; 

For a patriot tot cool; for a disobedient 

And too fond of the rigat to pure the «xpediong, 

In short, "twee ble fate, onemploped or in place, air, 

To Gal miuthn cokl, and cot blocks with amar, = 
Ketaftation (1770, 

The National Razor, The guillotine 
was so called in the first French Revo- 
lution. 


Read (Sir William), a tailor, who set 
up for oculist, and was knighted by 
queen Anne, Thisqnack was employes 
both by queen Anne and George |. Sir 
William could not read, Ile professed 
to cure wens, wry-necks, and -lips 
(died 1715). 

None shall their ree te merit owe— 

ca epee doctrine is explode! quite, 

Or Ralph bad been no dake, and Mend wo knight 
4 Politival squib af the Period, 

*.” The “* Ralph” referred to is Ralph 
Montagu, created viscount in 1682, and 
duke of Montagu in 1705 (died 1709), 

Ready-to-Halt, ao pilgrim that 
to the Celestial City on 
crutches. He joineg Mr. Greatheart's 
party, and was carried to heaven in a 
chariot of fire.—Bunyan, Pilgrum's Pro- 
gress, ii. (1684). : 

o 





RED HORSE. 





Red Horse (Vale of the), in War- 
wickshire ; no called from a horse cut in 
a hill of reddish soil, ‘a witness of that 
day we won opon the Danes.” 


White hore ia exalted to the sles ; 
Soc Bah ene aks Us conpenn ant Te. 
Drayton, Polyoliiou, (1@23). 


Red Enight (The), sir Sg eonrse 
one of the four brothers who kept th 
passages leading to Castle Perilous. 
the allegory of Gareth, this Knight repre 
sents noon, and waa 
Night, the eldest born, was slain by sir 
Gareth ; the Green Kuight, which repre- 
sents the young ways ring, waa over- 
come, but not slain ; the Red aang 
being overcome, was = spared also 


reason is this: darkness is siain, but | 


dawn is only overcome by the s T 
light of noon, and noon phar into e 
evening twilight. Tenny in his 
Gureth aml Lynette, calle oi imonés 
““ Meridies" or ‘‘Noonday Sun.” The 


Latin name is not consistent with a | 


History of | 


British tale.—Sir T. Malo 
Prince Arthur, i. 129 (1470 0}: 
ddyila, 


Red Knight of the Red Lands 
( The), sir irnesida, “Tle had the s 
of seven men, and every day his stren 
went on increasing till noon.” This 
kniht kept the lady Lionés captive in 
Castle Perilous, In the allegory of sir 
Gareth, sir Ironside represents death, and 
the captive lady “the Hride” or Church 
triumphant. Sir Gareth combats with 
Night, Mom, Noon, and Evening, or 
fights the fight of faith, and then over- 
comes the last enemy, ‘which is death, 
when he marries the lady or is received 
inte the Church which is “the Lamb's 
Bride.” Tennyson, in bis Gareth and 
Lynette, makes the combat with the Red 
Knight (* Mors” or “ Death") to be a 
single stroke; but the //ifory smys that it 
endured from morn to noon, and from 
pow to night—in fact, that man's whole 
life is a contest with mora) and 
death.—Sir T. Malory, History o Prince 
Arthur, i, 134-137 (1470); Tennyson, 
fdyils (** Gareth and Lynette”). 


Red Land (The). Westphalia was 
so called by the members of the Vehm- 
gencht. 


Origin ally wane Sah Rat meinen 05 Se Heat BE <n 
esuld be adoltie!d a menker of oe pee ler ecoret 
ribana!) —Uhoembert, Mmcye., iv. 3 


Red-Lattice Phrases, ale-house 
talk. Ked lattices or chequers were 
ordinary ale Louse sigus.—Shakespeare, 


Tennyson, 


 fions, common to Sweden, Germany, 


Red Pi The Great 5 
ago called Pihe Indians toguiben oe 
enAing om the red eeqecrn reek, 
broke off a piece, which he :nade into s 
eahte and smoked, letting the smoke 
le to the four quarters. He then 


Indian wipe bate 


i 
| 
| 
: 


Red Riding-Hood (Little), a child 
with a red cloak, who carry cakes 
to her grandmother. K wolf f placed iteelf 
in the grandmother's bed, and when the 
child remarked upon the size of ite eyes, 
ears, and nose, replied it was the better 
to see, hear, and a the little 
child. “But, grandmamma,” said the 
child, “what a great mouth you have 

ot “The better to eat you up,” was 
ae reply, and the child was devoured by 

e wo 


This nursery tale is, with slight varia- 
France. In Charles Perrault's Cinies 
ae (1697) it is called “Le Petit Chaperon 

Rouge. iL 


gE 


Red Sea (The). So called by the 
Gréeks and Romans, [Terhapa because it 
was the sea of Edom (‘‘the red man”), 


perhaps because the abore is a red 
rhaps because the waters are reddened 
sea-weedls or a red bottom. 
Hobeews called it “The Weedy & 
( Fum- Sup). 

Tie Rede Sea lb mot more rele than any offer sea, 
in some places theree! ta the pod ng Tad. Pt | 
men clepen it the Reds Sea — , 

Red Swan ( Tie). _ Oajtbwny hen eaing 
a strange noise, aw in 
beautiful red swan. Pulling ry how, he 
took deliberate aim, without effect. ‘He 
shot every arrow from his quiver with the 
same result; then, fetching from his 
medicine sack three 


ai 


it 








REFORMADO CAPTAIN. 821 
the two scholars a "shakedown" in hia | 


own chamber, but when they were in 
i he began to belabour them unmerci- 
ully. 

miller, being tripped up, fell upon his 
wife. His wife, roused from her sleep, 
seized aal‘ck, and meng ie bald pate 
of her hisband for the night-cap a one 
of the ycung men, banged it so luatil 
that the pers] wos almost stunned with 
the blows. In the mean time, the two 
schulars made off without payment, 
taking with them the pack and s the 
half-bushel of Cour which had been made 


into cakes.—Chaucer, Canterbury Tales 


(18H). 

*,” Toccaccio has a similar story in 
bis Decameron, It is also the subject of 
a fubliau entitled De Gombert ot des 
Dews Clera. Chaucer borrowed his story 


from a fubliaw ries by Thomaa Wright | 


in his Anecdota Literarw, 15. 


Reformado Captain, an officer 
shelved or degraded Sosend hia troops 
have been greatly reduced. 


Reformation (Tic). It was noticed 
in the early Jallarde, and was radiant in 
the works of Wycliffe. 

It was present in the pulpit of Pierre 
de Hruys, in the pages of Arnoldo da 
Brescia, in the cell of Roger Bacon. 

It was active in the field with Peter 
Revel, in the castle of lord Cobham, in 
the pulpit with John Huss, in the camp 
with John Ziska, in the class-room of 
Pico di Mirandula, in the observatory 


of Abraham Zacuto, and the coll of 


Antonio di Lebrija, before father Marti 
was born. 


Re'gan, second danghter of kin 
Lear, and wife of the duke of Cornwall. 
Having received the half of ber father’s 
kingdom under profession of unbounded 
love, she refused to entertain him with 
his suite, Om the death of her husband, 
she designed to marry Edmund natoral 
sun of the earl of Gloster, and was 
poisoned by her elder sister Goneril out 
of seslousy. Regan, like Goneril, is 

roverbial for “filial ingratitude.” — 

hakespeare, Afng Lear (1605). 


Regent Diamond Gs Ss called 
from the regent duke of Orleans. This 
diamond, the property of France, at first 
set in the crown, and then in the sword 
of state, was purchased in India by a 

overnor of Madras, of whom the regent 
Fought it for £80,000. 


Regillus (The Battle of the Lake). 


| Lavicum (south). 
A scuffle ensued, in which the 








REGIMEN, ETC. 


Regillus Lacus is about twenty 
east of Rome, between Gabii pot 
The Romans ex- 

Ned Tarquin the Proud from the throve, 
nse of the most scandalous conduct 

of his son Sextus, who had violated 
Lucretia and abused her hospitality. 
Thirty combined cities of Latiam, with 
Sabines and Volscians, took the part of 
Tarquin, and marched towards - 
The Romans met the allied army at 
lake Regillua, and here, on July 
ee which con- 
firmed their republican constitution, and 
in which Tarquin, with his sons Sextus 
and Titus, was slain. While victory 
was still doubtfal, Castor and Pollux, oa 
their white hor to the Roman 
dictator, and fought for the Romans. The 


5 


of Vesta in the Ronen and then — 
0 ite side of the t “square,” w 

they had ballin foenrie. Se Castor and 
Pollux in gratitude for the aid rendered 
by them in this battle. Here offerings 
were made, and sacrifice was offered to 
the Great Twin-Brothera, the sons of 


(Lsas} 
A very parallel case occurs in the life 
of Mahomet. The Koreishites had armed 
to put down “the prophet; " bot Ma- 
homet met them in arms, and on January 
13, 624, won the famous battle of Bedr, 
In the Aoran (ch. iii.), he tells us that 
the angel Gabriel, on his horse Halsim 

appeared on the field with 3000 “angels, 

and won the battle for him, 

In the conquest of Mexico, we are told 
that St. James appeared on his grey horse 
at the head of the Castilian adventurers, 
and led them on to victory. Bernal Diaz, 
who waa in the battle, saw the grey horse, 
bat fancies gt ritone: Francesco 
Moris. though, be con a6 
the glorious apostle St. James” for 
he knew. 


Regimen of 
lerno, a collecti 
versa wiht 6 by 


qi! 


F 


Sohool 


1 Mins, « 


g 
& 
a: 
FF 


F 
I 








RELOXA. 823 


it appears by the confemlons of the Inquisition that that 
tnetanves of failure have occurred, tut the mcred relics 
have always recovered their virtue when (as Galbert, a 
qonk of Marchiennes informs us), “ they are fogged with 
rods “—Brady, “41. 

*,* In the Hotel de Cluny, Paris, we 
are shown a ring which we are assured 
cuntains part of one of the thorns of the 
*Scrown of thorns.” 


Reloxa, the clock town. 
Spanish relor, ‘a clock.”) 


It would be an excellent Joke, Indeed, if the natives of 
Meloxa were tu slay every one who only asked them what 
@elock it was,—Cervantes, Don Quirote, I]. iL 8 (1615). 


Remember Thou art Mortal! 
When a Roman conqueror entered the 
city in triumph, a slave was placed in 
the chariot to whisper from time to time 
into the ear of the conqueror, ‘‘ Remem- 
ber thou art a man!” 

Vespasian, the Roman emperor, had a 
slave who said to him daily as he left 
hia chamber, ‘Remember thou art a 
man!” 

In the ancient Egyptian banquets it 
was customary during the feast to draw a 
mummy ina car round the banquet hall, 
while one uttered aloud, ** To this estate 
you must come at last!" 

When the sultan of Serendib (ie. 
Ceylon) went abroad, his vizier cried 
aloud, ‘‘ This is the great monarch, the 
tremendous sultan of the Indies... 
greater than Solima or the grand Mihbr- 
aye!" An officer behind the monarch 
then exclaimed, ‘‘ This monarch, though 
e yreat and powerful, must die, must 
die, must die! "—Arabian Niyhts (‘‘ Sind- 
bad,” sixth voyage). 


Remois (2 8y/.), the people of Rheims, 
wm France. 


(From the 


Remond, a shepherd in Britannia’s 
Paustorals, by William Browne (1618). 


Remotnd, young Remond, that full well could sing, 

Aud tune bts pipe at Pan's birth caralllng ; 

Who. for his nimble leaping, sweetest layes, 

A laurel! garland were on bolidayes; 

fn framing of whose band dame Nature swore, 

There never was his Like, nue should be mare. 
Pasteral, |. 


Remora, a little fish, which fastens 
itxelf on the keel of a ship, and impedes 
Its proyress, 


The sliipps Is as Invensible of the living as of the dead ; 
as the Nving make it not gone the faster, so the dead make 
(0 vot gue the slower, for the dead are no Rhemoras (sc) 
ater the course of Ler pamnyge — Helps toe Memory, etc., 
6¢ :143u). 


A goodly ship with banners bravely dight, 

And @ay on top-wallant le«pled. ... 

All suddenly their cluve unto her 

4 little ich that men call Remora, 

Whkh stopped her course and held her by the 

Thai wis.d nor tide cvuuld move her thence a 
Gyene. Sonnets (h 


he heal, 





RENZO AND LUCIA, 





Rem ores, birds which retar:] ‘the 
execution of a project. 


* Renores” aves in auspieio dicun ecturwe 
alkyuid remorarl compellunt. — Fert, Ss Terterum 
Signifcatione. 


Re’naud, one of the paladins of 
Charlemagne, always described with the 
prc perties of a borderer, valiant, alert, 
ingenious, rapacious, and unscrupulous. 
(Getter known in the Italian form Sinaldo 
(g.v.). 

Renault, a Frenchman, and one cf 
the chief conspirators in which Pierre 
was concerned. When Jaffier joined the 
conspiracy, he gave his wife vide'ra 
as surety of his fidelity, and a dagyer 
to be used against her if he proved un- 
faithful. Renault attempted the honour 
of the lady, and Jaffier took her back 
in order to protect her from such insults, 
The old villain died on the wheel, and no 
one pitied him.—T. Otway, Venice J’re- 
served (1682). 

René, the old king of Provence, 
father of qreen Margaret of Anjou (wife 
of Henry VI. of England). A minstrel- 
monarch, friend to the chase and tilt, 
poetry and music. Thiebault says he 
gave in largesses to knights-errant and 
minstrels more than he received in 
revenue (ch. xxix.).—Sir W. Scott, Anne 
of Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


René (2 syl.), the hero and title of : 
romance by Chateaubriand (1801). 
was designed for an episode to his gems 
du Christunisme (1802). René is a man 
of social inaction, conscious of possessing 
® superior genius, but his pride produces 
in him a morbid bitterness of spirit. 

Kené (Lentaxc], notary public of 
Grand Pre, in Acadia (Nuva Scotia). 
Bent with age, but with long yellow hair 
flowing over his shoulders. He was the 
father of twenty children, and had a 
hundred grandchildren. When Acadia 
was ceded by the French to England, 
George II. confiscated the goods of the 
simple colonists, and drove them inte 
exile. Rene went to Pennsylvania, where 
he died, and was buried.—Longfellow, 
Evangeline (1849). 


Rentowel (Jir. Jabesh), a covenant- 
ing preacher.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George II.). 
on the rehemence of some Pet res Cook 
thrapple [Waverienh or * precious” Jabesh Rea- 

Renso and Lucia, the hero and 
heroine of an Italian novel by Alessando 
Manzoni, entitled Zhe Betrothed lever 


V qpemeese== quae ee = oe oO 





contemporary documeats relating to The 
Revenge, by sir Walter Kaleigh. 

Gervase Markham wrote a long poem 
on the subject (two hundred stanzas of 
oe lines each). 


evenge (The Palace of), a palace of 
cry a Hy ided with everything agree- 
able to ife, except the means of going 
out of it. The fairy l'ngan made it, and 
when [mis rejected his suit because she 
ote Philax, he shut them up in 
this palace out of revenyve. At the end of 
a few years, Pagan had his revenge, fur 
Philax and Imis longed as eagerly for a 
separation as they had once done to le 
united.—Comtesse D’Aunoy, Fuiry Tules 
(‘‘ Palace of Revenge,” 1(i82). 


Revenons & nos Moutons, let us 
return to the matter in hand. The phrase 
comes from an old French comedy of the 
fifteenth century, entitled L'Arocat Pute- 
lin, by Blanchet. A lothier, giving 


evidence against a shepherd who had | 


stolen some sheep, is for ever minning 
from the subject to talk about some cloth 
of which Patelin, his lawver, had de- 
frauded him. The judge from time to 
time pulls him up, by saying “Well, 
well! and about the sheep?" What 
about the sheep?” (See Pare, p. 
737.) 


Revolutionary Songs. By far | 


the most popular were : 

l. La Marsediaise, oth worda and 
music by Rouget de Lisle (1792). 

2. Vedlons au Salut de | Lmpire, by 
Adolphe S. Boy (1791). Music by Da- 
layra. Very strange that men whose 
whole purpose was to desiruy the empire, 
should go about singing, “Let us guard 
it! a] 

3. Ca Tra, written to the tune of se 
Carillon National, in 178), while prepa- 
rations were being male for the fete cde 
(ia Federation, 1¢ was a vreat favourite 
with Mane Antoinette, wlio was for ever 
* strumming the tune on her harpsi- 
chord.” 

4. Chant dw Deépurt, by Marie Joseph 
de Chenier (1794). Music by Mebol, 
This was the most popular next to the 
Marseillaise. 

5, La Carmaynole. 
avait promis de faire 
Varig..." (1792) ~~ Probably so callea 
trou S'armagnole, m Piedmont, The 
nurden of this dancing sony is: 

‘Jenson la Carmagnuie. 
Vive le aun és cance: 


“Madame Veto 
égorger 


REVENGE. 825 


tout | 








REYNOLDS. 


6. Le Vengewr, 1 a cock-and-bull story, 
in verse, about a ship so called, Lord 
Howe took six of the French ships, June 
1, 1794; but Le Vengewr was sunk by the 
crew that it might not fall into the hands 
of the English, and went down while the 
crew shouted, ‘Vive la Republique !” 
There is as much truth in this story as in 
David's picture of Napoleon “ Crossing 
the Alps.” 

In the second Revolution we have - 

l. La Parisenne, called “The Mar- 
scillaise of 1830,” by Casimir Delavigne, 
he same ; eae Fy P 

La France a ( Horreur du Servage 
by “Casimir Delavigne (1843). ; 

3. La Champ de Bataille, by Emile 
Debreanx (about 1830), 

The chief political songs of Béranger 
are: Adicur de Marve Stuart, La Cocarde 
Blanche, Jacques, La Déesse, Marquis de 
Carabas, Le Sacre de Charles le | imple, 
ee Senateur, Le Vieux Caporal, and Le 

vos 


Rewcastle (Old John), a Jedburgt 
smuggler, and one of the Jacobite con- 
spirators with the laird of Ellieslaw.— 
Sir W. Seott, The Black Dwarf (time, 
Anne), 





Reynaldo, a servant to Polonius.— 
Shakespeare, /Yamlet (1596). 


Reynard the Fox, the hero of the 
beast-epic so called. This prose poem is 
a satire on the state of Germany in the 
Middle Ages. Revnard represents the 
Church; Isengrin the wolf (his uncle) 
typifies the baronial element; and Nodel 
the lion stands fur the regal power. The 
plot turns on the struggle for ny cid 
between Revnard and lsengrin. Reynard 
uses all his endeavours to victimize every 
one, capecially his uncle Isengrin, and 
generally succeeds, — Remecke Fuchs 
(thier-epos, 1498), 


Reynardine (3 sy/.), eldest son of 
Reynard the fox. He assumed the 
names of Dr. Pedanto and Crbron.— 
Heynurd the Fur (1498), 


Reynold of Montalbon, one of 


Charlemagne's paladins. 


Reynolds (Su Joshua) ia thuz de. 


| scribed by Goldsmith: 


Here Reynolds is laid; and, to e878 wy tae 
He has not left a wiser or better 

His pencil) was striking, resistiess, aud erent 

His mannes were gentia, complying, and ee 


| To cuzconhe averes, vet most civiliv steering, 


wi mciges! arithunt s he was still hard of 
an pr saad kill, 








this surprise Khesus and all his army were 
ext to pieces. —Homer, Jliad, x. 

A very parallel case was that of Sweno 
the Dane, who was marching to join 
Godfrey and the crusaders, when he was 
attacked in the night by Solyman, and 
loth Sweno and his army perished.— 
Tacso, Jerusalem Delivered (1575). 


Rhetoric of a Silver Fee (TAs). 


He will reverse the watchman's harsh decree, 
Moved by the rheturic of a aliver fee. 
Gay, Frivia, lll. S17 (1718). 


Rhiannon’s Birds. The notes of 
these birds were fo ject that warriors 
reinained spell-bound for eighty 
together listening to them. Fhese birds 
are often alluded to by the Welsh bards. 
(Rhiannon was the wife of prince Pwyil., 
— The Mabinoyion, 363 (twelfth century). 

The snow-white bird which the monk 
Felix listened to sang so enchantingly 
that he was spell-bound for a hundred 
years listening to it.—Longfellow, Golden 
Lejend. 

Rhine (7ie Jrish). The Blackwater 
ts so called from its scenery. 


Rhinnon Rhin Barnawd’s 
Bottles had the virtue of keeping sweet 
whatever liquor was put in then.— The 
Muhinojion (**Kilhwch and Olwen,” 
twelfth century). 


Rhinoceros. The horn of the rhi- 
noceros being ‘‘cut through the middle 
from one extremity to the other, on it 
will be seen several white lines repre- 
senting human figures.”"—Aratsun Niyhts 
(‘‘ Sindbad's Second Voyage”). 

Rhinoceros-Horn a Powon- Detector. If 
poison is put into ea vessel made of a 
rhinoceros’s horn, the liquid contained 
therein will effervesce. 

Rhinoceros and Elephant. The rhino- 
ceros with its horn gores the elephant 
under the belly, but blood running into 
the eves of the rhinoceros, blinds it, and 
it becomes an caasy prey to the roc.— 
Arwhian Nights (‘' Sindbad’s Second 
Voyage"). 

Rhodalind, daughter of Aribert king 
of Lombardy, in love with duke Gondi- 
Lert; bat Gondibert preferred Birtha, a 
eountry girl, hter of the sage As- 
tragon. While the duke is whispering 
sweet love-notes to Birtha, a comes 

t-haste to announce to him that the 
ing has proclaimed him his heir, and is 
about to zive him his daughter in mar- 
riage. The duke gives Birtha an emerald 
ring, and says if he is false to her the 
am-rald will lose its lustre; then hastens 





RHETORIC OF A SILVER FEE. 827 





RIBBON. 
to court in obedience to the king’ 





Gondibert (1605-1668). 

Rhodian Venus (The). This was 
the ‘‘ Venus” of Protog’enés mentioned by 
Pliny, Natural History, xxxv. 10. 


Pig te mater 
Each look that charmed blu In ths flr of Grosea, 


Campbell, Piencures of Hepes, fi. (178%. 
Prior (1664-1721) refers to the sam 
painting in his fable of Protogénes and 
Apellés: 
Lee oe ras 
The most renowned all Greesa. 
Bhod’ope (8 sy/.) or Rhod’ 
a celeb Greek courtezan, who ope 
wards married Psammetichus king of 
Egypt. It is said that she built the third 
pyramid.—Pliny, Nat. Hist., xxxvi. 12. 
A otter pyvamis to ber I'll rear, 


Shakespeare, 1 Henry Vi. act 1. oe. 6 0008. 


peake "a leash of languages af oxen 
speaks “‘a 0 at once, 

zzling himeelf and his hearers with a 
tirgon like that of ‘‘Holofernés” in 
Shakespeare's Love's Labour's Lost (1594). 
—Sir Philip Sidney, Pastoral Entertain- 
ment (1887). 


Rhombus, -wheel or rolling 
instrument, oat by tke Boman witches 


for fetching the moon out of heaven. 


Bhone of Christian Eloqguenov 
(The), St. Hilary (800-367). 


Bhone of Latin Eloquence 
(The). St. Hilary is so called by 8S 
erome (300-367). 


Rho myan the lance of 
Arthar.— The chinogion (‘*Kilhweh 
Olwen,” twelfth century). 


R Death. In 1 Henry 
Vi. act i. sc. 1, Thomas Beaufort duke 
of Exeter, s ing about the death of 
Henry V., says, ‘‘ Must we think that 


the subtle-witted French conjurors and 
sorcerers, out of fear of him, ‘b 

verses have contrived his end'?" 
notion of killing by incantation was at 
ove time very common. 

Irichmen . .. will not stick to affirme thet they ap 
rime either man or beast te death. —Reg. Beet, Disseverie 
of Weteherayt (1564). 

Ribbon. The yellow ribboa, iz 
France, indicates that the wearer has 
won a médaille militaire (instituted hy 








RICHLAND. 829 


Gaston duke of Orleans the regent. The 
lot was revealed to the cardinal by 
farion de Lorme, in whose house the 

conspirators met. The conspirators were 

arrested, and several of them put to 
death, but Gaston duke of Orleans turned 
king's evidence and was pardoned,—Lord 

Lytton, Richeliew (1839). 


Richland (iss), intended for Leon- 
tine Uronker, but she gives her hand in 
marringe to Mr. Honeywood, ‘the good- 
natured man,” who promises to abandon 
his quixotic benevolence, and to make it 
his study in future ‘to reserve his pity 
fur real distresa, hia friendship for trae 
merit, and his love for her who first 
taught him what it is to be happy."— 
Goldsmith, Je Good-natured Jan (1768). 


Richmond ( The duchess of), wife of | 


Charles Stuart, in the court of Charles 
Il. The line became extinct, and the 


title was civen to the Lennox family. —Sir | 


W. Scott, 
Charles I1.). 

Richmond ( The earl of), Wenry of 
Lancaster.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of (Geter- 
aicin (time, Edward 1V.). 


Richmond Hill ( 7Ae Lass of), Misa 


Peverl of the Peak (time, 


J’ Anson of Hill House, Lichmond, York- | 


shire. Words by M‘Nally; music by 
James Hook, who married ‘the young 
lady. 

i Leo of fickmond MN fp one of the owectent 
ballad in the knguage —Johin Bell, 

Rickets (Wubel), the old nuree of 
Frank (sbaldistone.—Sir W. Scott, Bob 
toy (time, George I.). 

Riderhood (fojue), the villain ino 
Dickens's novel of Gur Mutual Friend 
(Ladd). 


Rides on the Tempest and 
Directsthe Storm. Joseph Addison, 
speaking of the duke of Marlborough and 
hia famous victories, save that he in- 
spired the fainting squadrons, and stood 

-anmoeved in the shock of battle : 


Bn when on angr) hy divine comrennal, 

With rigiig iempeats shakes « guilty lame, 
ict mai le oer pale Briton nie pol, 

Calo onl erene be drives the forks bined 7 
Ail, lear! ih’ Almigh y's one jo perform, 


Riles uo (he fempesl ancl directs the eiarm., 
The Compaign (17. 
*,.” The “tempest” referred to by 


Addizan in these lines is that called “The 
wirsat Storm,” November 26-7, 17038, the 
nivet terrible on record, The lona of 
property in London alone exceeded two 
millions sterling. Above 8000 

were drowned, 12 men-of-war were 





aE EP 


RIGDUM-FUNNIDOS. 


wrecked, 17,000 trees in Kent alone were 
uproated, Radyrtone lighthouse was de- 
stroyed 15 Sra were blown imo the 

nd the bishop of Bath and Welle 
with ‘his wife were killed in bed in theiz 
palace in Somersetahire. 


Ridicule (Father of). Francois Ra- 
belais is so styled by sir William 1 Teer ks le 
(1495-1553). 


Ridolphus, one of Ee band of 
adventurers that ec the crusaders. 


He was slain by tés (bk. vii.).— 
Tasso, Jerusclem boloored (1575). ) 


Rienzi (Nicolo Gabrini) or Coa pa 
Rienzi, !sst of the tribunes, who as- 
sumed the name of * Tribune of Liberty, 
Peace, and Justice” (1818-1854). 

it eae ac ge te cea the hero of a 


novel by lord Bulwer 

Rienzi or The Last of the Barents SHO 
Rienzi, an opera by Wagner (1841). It 

opens with a namiber of the Orsini break- 


ing into Rienzi's house, in order to abduct 
his sister Iréné, but in this they are foiled 





| by the arrival of the Colonna and his fol- 


lowers, The be provokes a general 
insurrection, ienzi is ap Pointed 
leader. The pre are waved and 
Rienzi becomes a senator; but the aris- 
tocracy hate him, and Paolo Orsini seeks 


| to assassinate him, but without suegess. 


By the machinations of the Germaa 


| emperor and the Colonna, Rienzi is ex- 


communicated and deserted by all his 
adherents. He is ultimately fired on by 
the populace and killed on the steps of 


| the capitol. Libretto by J. P. Jackson. 


Rienzi (The English), William with 
the Long Beard, alias Fitzosbert (*-1196). 


Rigaud (Afons.), a Belgian, 85 years 
of age, confined in a villainous prison at 
Marseilles for murdering his wife. He 
had a hooked nose, handsome after its 
kind but too high between the eyes, and 
his eyes, though sharp, were too near to 
one another. He was, however, a 
tall man, with thin lips, and a l 

panty of dry hair shot wi ad 

‘hen he apoke, his moustache went up 
under his nose, and his nose came down 
over his moustache. After his liberation 
from -peisow, he first took the name of 


I niet and then of Blandois, his name 
being Rigaud Lagnier Blandois.—Charles 
Dickens: erittle it (1857). 


um-Funnidos, a courtier im 
Pincay Se of king Chrononbotonthulogos. 
After the death of the king, the wid>wed 











881 RINGDOVE. 





RING. 





w long of thou conceslest it, it will conceal thee —The 
. dtodinagion (“ Lady of the Fountain,” twelfth ceutmry). 


Ring ( The Steel) madc by Seidel-Beckir, 
This ring enabled the wearer to read the 
secreta of another's heart.—Comte de 
Cavlus, Oriental Tales ("The Four 
Talismans, 1743). 


Ring (The Talking), a ring given by 
Tartaro, the Hasque Cyclops, to a girl 
whom be wished to marry. Immediately 
she put iton, it 4 incessantly saying, 
“You there, and | bere;" so, to get nd 
of the nuisance, she cut off her finger and 
threw both ring and finger into a pond. 
—Kev. W. Webster, Basque Leyends, 4 
(1876). 

The same story appears in Campbell's 
Popular Tales of the West Highlands, 
i. 111, and in Grimm's tale of The Hobber 
and fis Sons. When the robber put on 
the ring, it incessantly cried out, ‘‘ Here I 
am;" 80 he bit off his finger, and threw 
it from him, 


Ring. The Virgin's Wedding Ring, kept 
in the Duomo of Perugia, under fourteen 
locks. 


Ring Posies. 

AE) (Greek for * alwaya ") 

A hbmart cunteol Gas ne'er Fepent 

All fir all. 

All | refine, Acodl thet 7 ecbscopma, 

Bear co) orlsear, 

Hevoud Uhie life, Lore me, dear wite, 

Ie bon oor, (Aixteenth oantury; found af York.) 

Lirath tener parts Bach Loring beara. 

lied rows pirie, 

ee bata - (Fifteenth oontury; A, Bile, Ey.) 

om teen Tore 

Bowlane my lore, Aa this shad prowe. 

Fur gicr ied fut Ae 

Chal one Made ua two ote. 

Cell did decree Thiet unity. 

Lud tend me well to keep (The ring given by Heury 
VIN. tt Atine of Cleves. | ; 

Got ww uns beld in Lieb ond Led ("With cape 
hats,” etc. }. 

Heart aral hand At thy comma 

1 hare chaired Whom Gad ordaioel, 

Jo hove abide, Till desi divicde, 

Ie bewling thea | lowe mopeell 

lo ties, my chatre, | do rej, 

To Ginity Let's Live ated die, 

Julie’ In one By Ged alone, 

Joy be with pum; ot, in Freoch, Jove oo coe, 

La nt Mee muy. (Fifienth cmtury, With Virgic aod 
da bell. | = 

Let love iecrenee. 

Let hee Pale. 

Let ve lie Like tortie, 

Live to hoe, kau be Lie, 

Live lappy 

Lewe for boo, 

Lite alway, Fy nilgit and dag, 

fone ond respect | do enpect, 

lave la hearen, onl bearen ie love, 

Llbwe ie, one bee oe ml, 

Way (hel niewre loner oor lowe, 

Mat jon bee beng 

Majeed | detail «fare 

Mutual (ier, 

My heart ard |, ntl | le, 

My willie weve tle alget-elng, with o oreiio ge devi: | 

Nerer news. (Allannur, wife of the dake of domme) 

Bo gift ian ehow Tie love | owe, 

Kai twa, bot one, Till iif es le gee, 





Post cpinas palma. 

Pray to love, and love to peng. 

Quod Deus conlinatt hom. pen separet, @iiztesnth eum 
tury, G, DL Gowen, Bey.) 

Fllence onda strife With man and wife, 

ag Ay tee (Ring of Matthew Paris; found at 

= aarewsiary (Margaret, wife of the enti of 

Ti a Weunne, (Ellanbeth, wife of lord Latymer.) 

Seated eminem rtp 

True love Will ne'er remove, 

Truth trieth troth, 

We join our love In Goll abowe, 

Wellock, "tis sail, In hewen ts made, 

Whear this | glow, | wish to Hee, 

Whieee han’ts agrea, Thare Goa waa be. 

Youn taheat. 

Ring and the Book (The), au 
idyllic epic, by Robert Browning, founded 
on a caxse cflébre of Italian Elstory im 
1698. The case was this: Guido Fran- 
sencpinls a porengne count of shattered 
ortune, married Pompilia, thinking her 
to be an heiress. When the route eride 
discovered she had been married for her 
money only, she told her husband she 
was no heiress at all, but was only the 
supposititious child of Pietro (2 sy.) 
supplied by one Violanté, for the sake of 
keeping in his hands certain entailed pro- 
perty. The count now treated Pompilia 
so brutally that she ran away from home, 
under the protection of Caponsacchi, a 
young priest, and being arrested at Rome, 
al separation took place. Pompilia 
sued for a divorce, but, pending the suit, 
gave birth to a son. The count now 
murdered Pietro, Violanté, and Pompilia, 
but eng taken red-handed, was broughé 
to trial, found guilty, and executed. 


Ring the Bells Backwards (70), 
to ring a muffied peal, to lament. tow, 
John Cleveland, wishing to show his 
abhorrence of the Scotch, says: 


How! Providence | and yet a Geottich crew!. .. 
ae pte cal gahc gle I am all en Gre; 
bucket: in a eountry quire 
Shall) quench my rage. 
The Rebel Sect (1413-108) 


Ringdove (Zhe Swarthy). The re- 
sponses of the oracle of Dodéna, in Epiros, 
were made by old women called ‘ pi- 


geons,” who derived their answers from 
e cooing of certain doves, the bubbdli 


| of a spring, the ey 3 of the sacred 


or beech}, and the tinkling of a gong or 

ll hung in the tree. ¢ women were 
called pigeons by a play on the word 
pelia, which means “old women” as well 
as “‘pigeons;” and as they came from 
Libya they were swarthy. 

According to fable, Zeus gave hie 
daughter Thebé two black doves e- 


| duwed with the gift of human speech; 





——_ ———_—-- 


RI NG HORSE. 832 





ene of them flew into 
other into Dodona. The former gave 
the responses in the temple of Ammon, 
and the latter in the oracle of Dodona, 


heech oF line, 
Or thit Thesalian growth 
In which the ewarihy ringlowe mal, 
And) myrtle sentence spoke. 
Tennyson. 


Ringhorse (Sir Notert), o magistrate 
al Old St. Ronan’s.—Sir W. Seatt, St 


fionan's Well (time, Leorge Il, ). 


Ringwood, a young Tenmplar.—Sir 
W. Scott, Fortunes of Nigel (time, Janves 


].). 


Rintherout (/rnaay), a servant at 
Monkbarns to Mr. Jonathan Oldbuck the 
antiquary.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Anhquary 
(time, George I)].). 


Riou (Cuptain), called by Nelson 
“The Gallant and the Good;”" fell in 
the battle of the Baltic. 


Brive heartw! bo Rejuln's pei 
Onen =: faithial agul eo Cre, 
On the deck of fiagne Cheat ical 
Whit the gillaat, gual Mio 
Gomplell, Maree af the Mate (TTL. 


R. L. P., i.e, requieseat im pace, 


Rip van Winkle slept twenty vears | 


in the Kastskill Mountains of Noth 


Ameroa, Adee W INKLE. ‘.) 


CS a es Te es ceed lnet Pee Pi. 


Libya, and the © 





hest. The two married, wheelie _ 
gare hia bride wit, and sho besto 
nei rt This, of course, is mn alle- 
gory. Love sees through « couleur do 
rose. — Charles Perrault 0 Contes des Fees 
(** Riquet & la Houppe,” 1687). 

*,* This tale is borrowed from the 
Nights of Straparola, It is imitated 
mds, Villeneuve in her Peawty and 

east. 


Risingham (erfram), tho vawal 


| of Philip of Mortham. Oswald Wvellife 


induced him to shoot his lord at Marston 
Moor; and for this deed the vassal de 
manded all the gold and movables of hia 
late master, Oswald, beng o re 
tried to outwit Bertram, and sven 
murder him; but it turned out that Philip 
of Mortham was not killed, neither was 
Oswald Wreliffe his os for Kedmend 
a Neale (Rokeby's pare) was found tea 
be the seu and heiro lip of Mortham, 


—Sir W. Seott, Roteby (1812), 


Ritho or Rython, « giant who had 
made himeclf furs of the beards of kings 
killed hy him. He sent to king Arthar 
to mect him on mount Aravius, or else 
to send his beard to him without delay. 
Arthur met him, slew him, and took 
“fur” as a spoil. Drayton says it was 
this Rython who carried off Heléna the 


= Juk. EFsl—o . fk. PS>_ 


= oo 





o——————— = = 


RIVER OF JUVENESCENCE. 653 





ROB ROY M‘GREGOR. 





ensign Beverley (alias captain Absolute), 
and Lydia Languish is the lady they 
contend for. Bob Acres tells captain 
Absolute that ensign Beverley is a 
booby; and if he could find him out, 
he'd teach him his place. He sends a 
challenge to the unknown by sir Lucius 
O'Trigyer, but objects to forty yards, 
and thinks thirty-eight would suffice. 
When he finds that ensign Beverley is 
captain Absolute, he declines to quarrel 
with his friend; and when his second 
calls him a coward, he fires up and 
exclaims, ‘‘Coward! Mind, gentlemen, 
he calls me ‘a coward,’ coward by my 
valour!” and when dared by sir Lucius, 
he replies, ‘I don’t mind the word 
‘coward ;’ ‘coward’ may be said in a 
joke; but if he called me ‘ poltroon,’ ods 
daggers and balls——"” ‘Well, sir, 
what then?” ‘ Why,” rejoined Bob 
Acres, ‘I should certainly think him 
very ill-bred.” Of course, he resigns all 
claim to the lady's hand. 


River of Juvenescence. Prester 
John, in his letter to Manuel Comnénus 
emjcror of Constantinople, says there is 
a spring at the foot of mount Olympus 
which changes its flavour hour by hour, 
both night and day. Whoever tastes 
thrice of its waters will never know 
fatiue or the infirmities of age. 


River of Paradise, St. Bernard 
abbot of Clairvaux (1091-1153). 


River of Swans, the Poto’mac, 
United States, America. 


Rivers (The kin7 of), the Tagus. 
Tagus they crogsed, where, mid'and on bis wag, 
The hing of rivers ru ishis stately streanas. 
Southey, Auderick, the Last af the Goths, xi. (1814). 
Rivers, Arise.... In this Vaca- 
tion Lrercise, George Rivers (son of sir 
John Rivers of Westerham, in Kent), 
with nine other freshinen, took the part 
of the ten ** Predicaments,” while Milton 
himself performed the part of ‘‘ Ens.” 
Without doubt, the pun suggested the 
ideain Milton's Vacation Exerciee( 1627): 


Rivers, arise ; whether thou be the son 

(4 vunost Tweed. of Guse, or xulphy Don, 

Or Treat, whe ike some earthborn giant, spreads 
Hie tarty arine tiong the aden ed me ula 

Or ellen Mole that ranne’h undernesth, 

Or sev orn swift, guilty of maklen’s death, 

Orr chy Avon, or af mad Lee, 

Or cooly Tyne, of ancient hallowed Dee, 

Or Huntuber lotd that keeps the Scythian's name, 
Or Madway sooth, or ruyal towered Thame, 


Rivulet Controversy (The) arose 
against Rev. T. T. Lynch,a Congregation- 
alist who in 1553 bad expressed nevlogian 
views in The Liculet, 2 book of poems, 


Road (The Law of the), in England 
is “drive to the left,” the opposite of the 
American rule. Hence the English epi- 
gram: 

The law of the road tsa paradox quite, 
In riding or driving along : 
If you go to the left, you are sure to go rights 
you go to the right, you go wrong. 

Road to Ruin, a comedy by Thomas 
Holcroft (1792). Harry Dornton and 
his friend Jack Milford are on ‘the road 
to ruin’ by their extravagance. The 
former brings his father to the eve of 
bankruptcy ; and the latter, having spent 
his private fortune, is cast into prison for 
debt. Sulky, a partner in the bank, 
comes forward to save Mr. Dornton from 
ruin; Harry advances £6000 to pay his 
friend’s debts, and thus saves Milford 
from ruin; and the father restores the 
money advanced by Widow Warren to 
his son, to save Harry from the ruin of 
marrying a designing widow instead of 
Sophia Freelove, her innocent and charm- 
ing daughter. 


Roads (The king of), John Loudon 
Macadam, the improver of roads (1756- 
1836). 

*,* Of course, the wit consists in the 
pun (Rhodes and Roads). 


Roan Barbary, the charger of 
Richard II., which would eat from his 
master's hand. 

Oh how It yearned my heart, when I beheld 

In London streets that curonation day, 

When Bolingtruke rode on Ruan Barbary! 

That borse that thou so often hast ; 

That horse that I sv carefully have dressed ! 
Shakespeare, Aichard //. act ¥. sc. 5 (B57). 

Rob Roy, published in 1818, excel- 
lent for its bold sketches of Highland 
scenery. The character of Bailie Nicol 
Jarvie is one of Scott's bappiest concep- 
tions; and the carrying of him to the 
wild mountains among outlaws and des- 

radoes is exquisitely comic. The hero, 

‘rank Osbaldistone, is no hero at all. 
Dramatized by I. Pocock. 


None of Scott's novels was more po than od 
Roy. yet, as a story, it is the most ill-concocted and 
defective uf the whole series,—Chambers, English Lite 


rature, il. 587. 


Rob Roy M‘Gregor, tc. ‘‘ Robert 
the Red,” whose surname was MacGregor. 
He was an outlaw, who assumed the 
name of Campbell in 1662. He ma 
be termed the Robin Hood of Scotland. 
The hero of the novel is Frank Osbaldis- 
tone, who gets into divers troubles, from 
which ‘he is rescued by Rob Koy. The 
last service is to kill Rashleigh Osbaldis- 
tone, whereby Frank's great enex:y is 

M 








ROBERT THE DEVIL. 


Agatha.—Sir W. Scott, Count Robert 
Paris (time, Refas), 7 
Robert the Davil or Robert the 
Magnificent, Robert I. duke of 
Normandy, father of William “the 
Conqueror" (*, 1028-1035), 
Robert Francois Damiens, who tried to 


assassinate Louis XV., waa popularly so | 


called (*, 1714-1757), 

Roberts, cash-keeper of Master 

George Heriot the king's goldsmith. Sir 

W. Scott, furtunes of Niyel (time, James 
Roberts (John), a smuggler.—Sir W. 

Scott, Led yauntlet (time, George III.) 


Robespierre’s Weavers, the 
fish-fags and their rabble female fol- 
lowers of the very lowest class, parti- 
gans of Robespierre in the first French 
Revolution. 

Robin, the page of sir John Fal- 
staff.—Shakespeare, Merry Wises of 
Windsor (1801). 

Robin, servant of captain Rovewell, 
whom he helps in his love adventure with 
Arethosa daughter of Argus,—Carey, 
Contrivances (1715). 

Robin, brother-in-law of Farmer C. 
of Cornwall. Having lost his property 
through the villainy of lawver Endless, he 
eniisrates, and in three years returns. ° 
ship is wrecked off the coast of Com- 
wall, and Robin saves Frederick the 
young squire. On landing, he meets his 
old sweetheart Margaretta at Crop’s house, 
and the acquaintance is renewed by 
mutual consent.—P. Hoare, Wo Song no 
Supper (1790), 

Jobin, a young gardener, fond of the 

minor theatres, where he has picked wu 
a taste for sentimental fustian, but all 
his rhapsodies bear upon hia trade, 
Thus, when Wilelmina asks why he 
wishes to dance with her, he replies: 
Pia aes Eryn. ge) Bee mak the it ia 
white; ak Ube wheet why Ut ty tery os + el 
eh) Guy been; the cubes why (hey grew, “Teall 
becom they can't help ut; oo mort cn I help my love 
for you. — Diledin, Tae Waterman, |. (1774), 

Rulin (Old), butler to old Mr. Halph 
Morton of Milnwood.—Sir W. Scott, Vid 
Mortality (time, Charles IT.). 

Robin Bluestring. Sir Robert 
Walpole was go called, in allusion to his 
blue ribbon aa a knight of the Garter 
(1676-1745), 


Robin Gray (Aud). The words of 





| Green the 


nts why they lowe ashower; ok the eo 





a ee) 


ROBIN HOOD. 


this song are by lady Anne Lindsay, 
daughter of the earl of Balcarres; she 
was afterwards lady Barnard, The song 
was written in 1772 to an old Scotch tune 
called The Bridejroom Grat when the Sun 
gacd Down, (See Gray, p. 402.) 


Robin Hood was born at Locksley, 
in Notts., in the reign of Henry II. (1160), 
Hiis real name was Fitzooth, and it is 
commonly said that he waa the earl of 
Huntinedon. Having outrun his fortune, 
and being outlawed, he lived ag a free- 
booter in Barnsdale (Yorkshire), Sher- 
wood (Notts.), and Plompton (Cum- 
berland)., lia chief companions were 
Little John (whose name was Nailor), 
William lock (or Scarlet), George 
pinder (or pound-keeper) of 
Wakefield, Much a miller's son, and 
Tock a friar, with one female named 
Marian. His company at one time con- 
sisted of a hundred archers, He was 


oe to death in his old age by a relative, 
| the 


prieress of Kirkloy’s Nunnery, in 
Yorkshire, November 15, 1247, aged 87 
ears, 

: *.* An excellent sketch of Robin 
Hood is given by Drayton in his /oly- 
olion, xxvi. Sir W. Scott introduces 
in two novels—Joanhoe and The 
Talisman. In the former he first appears 
as Locksley the archer, at the tonrna- 
ment. He is also called ‘‘ Dickon Bend- 
the-Bow." 

The following dramatic pieces have the 
famous outlaw for the hero :— Robin 
Hood, i. (1597), Munday; Robin Hood, 
ii. (1598), Chettle; Robin Hood (1741), 
an opera, by Dr. Are and Burney; 
Robin Hood (1787), an eat ie O'Keefo, 

Hood, by Mac- 


} music by Shield; Rodin 
} nally (before 1820). 


Major tells us that this famons robber 


took away the goods of rich men ody 


never killed any person except in 
defenee; never plundered the poor, but 
charitably fed them; and adds, “he was 
the most humane and the prince of all 
robbers."—ritanma Historia, 128 (1740), 
The abbot of St. Mary's, in York, and 
the sheriff of Nottingham were his bétes 
noires. Munday and Chettle wrote o 
popular play in 1601, entitled Zhe Death 


| of Aubert Earl of Huntington. 


Epitaph of Rubin Hood. 





ward to greet her husband, falls into the 
abyss and is killed. 

Sir Hujh Robsart, of Lidcote Hall, 
father of Amy.—Sir W. Scott, Aenilworth 
(time, Elizabeth) 


Roce, a white bird of enormous size. 
Its strencth is such that it will lift up 
an elephant from the ground and carry it 
to its mountain nest, where it will devour 
it. In the Arabian Nights’ Entertam- 
ments, it was a roc which carried 
Sindbad the sailor from the island on 
which he had been deserted by his 
companions (‘‘ Second Voyage”). And it 
was a roc which carried Agib from the 
castle grounds of the ten young men who 
had lost their right eyes (‘‘The Third 
Calender’s Story”). Sindbad says one 
claw of the roc is as ‘‘big as the trunk 
of a large tree,” and its egg is ‘‘ fifty 
paces [130 feet] in circumference.” 

*.* The ‘rukh” of Madagascar lays an 
egg equal to 148 hen's eyyrs.—Cumptes 

endus, etc., xxxii. 101 (1851). 


Rocco, the jailer sent with Fidelio 
(1-conora) to dig the grave of Fernando 
‘lorestan (q.v.). — Beethoven, Fidelio 
(1791). 


Roch’dale (Sir Simon), of the manor- 
house. He is a J.P., but refuses to give 
justice to Job Thornberry the old brazier, 
who demands that his son Frank Roch- 
dale should marry Mary [Thornberry], 
whom he has seduced. t this crisis, 
Pereyrine appears, and tells sir Simon 
he is the elder brother, and as such is 
heir to the title and estates. 

Frank Rochdale, son of the baronet, 
who has promised to marry Mary Thom- 
berry, but sir Simon wants him to marry 
Jady Caroline Braymore, who has £4000 
ayear. Lady Caroline marries the Hon. 
Tom Shuflleton, and Frank makes the 
best reparation he can by marrying Mary. 
—G. Colman, junior, John Bull (1805). 


Roche’s Bird (Sir Boyle), which 
was ‘‘in two places at the same time.” 
The tale is that sir Boyle Roche said in 
the House of Commons, ‘Mr. Speaker, 
it is imnossible I could have been in two 

laces at once, unless ] were a bird.” 
Mis is a quotation from Jevon's play, 
Tie Devil of a Wife (seventeenth cen- 
tury). 

Wife. I cannot be In two places at ones. 
Musdund (Rowland). Surely no, unless thoe wert a bird. 

Rochecliffe (Dr. Anthony), formerly 
Joseph Albany. s plotting royalist.—Sir 


ROC. 887 





RODERICK. 


W. Scott, Woodstock (time, Common- 
wealth). 


Rochester (The earl of), the 
favourite of Charles IJ., introduced in 
hi;ch feather by sir W. Scott in Woodstock, 
and in Peveril of the Peak in disgrace. 

Rock (Dr. ’ » & famous 
quack, who professed to cure every 

isease. He was short of stature and 
fat, wore a white three-tailed wig, 
nicely combed and frizzed upon each 
cheek, carried a cane, and halted in his 
gait. 

Dr. Rock, F.U.N., never wore a hat... . He and Dr. 

were at variance. . . . Rock cautioned the world 


rival °° Dumplin’ Dick.” of Confucins, what profs 
nation '!—Guidanith, 4 Citisen ef the World (1788). 





Oh! when bis nerves had once reosived a shock, 
Sir leaac Newton might have gone to Rock. 
Crabbe, Serough (1819). 


Rock Lisards, natives of Gibraltar, 
born in the town, of British parents. 


Rocket. He rose like a rocket, and 
fell like the stick, Thomas Paine said 
this of Mr. Burke. 


Rocnabad, a stream near the city of 
Schiraz, noted for the purity of its 
waters. 

“I am disgusted with the mountain of the Four Foun- 
tains,” said the caliph Omar ben Abdal-aziz; “and am 
resolved to go and drink of the stream of Rocnabed.”-— 
W. Beckford, Fathek (1783). 

Roderick, the thirty-fourth and last 
of the Gothic kings of Spain, son of 
Theod’ofred and Rusilla. flavin vio-~ 
lated Florinda, daughter of count Julian, 
he was driven from his throne by the 
Moors, and assumed the garb of a monk 
with the name of ‘‘father Maccabee.” 
Iie was present at the at battle of 
Covadonga, in which the Moors were cut 
to pieces, but what became of him after- 
wards no one knows. His helm, sword, 
and cuirass were found, so was his steed. 
Several generations passed away, when, 
in a hermitage near Viseu, a tomb was 
discovered, ‘‘ which bore in ancient cha- 
racters king Roderick’s name ;” but im- 
agination must fill up the gap. He is 
spoken of as most popular. 


Time bas been 

When not a tongue within the Pyreness 
Dared whisper i.: di-praise of Roderick’s name, 
Leat, If the conscious air had caught the sound, 
The vengeance of the bonest multitace 
Bhould fall upon the tra.torous head, and 
Fer iife-long infamy the lying lipa, 

Southey, Roderick, 


braad 


ote... ZV. (1814). 
Roderick's Dog was called Theron. 
Rederick's Hurss was Orel’io. 

Roderick ( The Vision of don). Roderick, 
the last of the Gothic kings of Spain, 








BODOGUNE. 


ESE EEE 


Ro’ Rhodogune, orRho’- 
dogyne (8 syi), daughter of Phras'tés 
kine-of Parthia. Mahe warsied Dome'trius 


Nica’nor (the husband of Cleopat’ra queen 

of Syria) while in ivity. (See p. 196.) 
*,° P. Comeille has a tragedy on the 

eubject, entitled Rodogunc (1646). 


Rodolfo ¢/i conte). It isin the bed- 
chamber of this count that Ami’na is 
discovered the night before her espousal 
to Elvi‘no. Ugly suspicion is excited, 
but the count assures the young farmer 
that Amina walks in her sleep. While 
they are talking, Amina is seen to get 
out of a window and walk along a narrow 

of the mill-roof while the huge 

wheel is rapidly revolving. She crosses 

a crazy bridge, and walks into the very 

midst of the spectators. Ina few minutes 

she awakes, and flies to the arms of her 
La Sonnamiula 


lover.—Bel 
o cpenm 


Rodomont, king of Sarza or Algiers. 
He was Ulien's son, and called the “‘ Mars 
of Africa.” His lady-love was Dor’alis 

rincess of Grana’da, but she eloped with 

andricardo king of Tartary. At 
Rogero's wedding, Rodomont accused him 
of being a renegade and traitor, where- 
upon they fought, and Kodomont was 
slain.— Orlando Innamorato (1495); and 
Orlando Furioso (1516). 


Who so meek? -I'm sure I quake at the thought of 
kim why. bes as Seros en Rodement Dryden, Spanish 

*,* Rodomontade (4 svi), from Ro- 
domont, a bragging although a brave 


knight. 

Rogel of Greece (The Exploits and 
Adven of), part of the series called 
Ie Roman des Romans, pertaining to 
‘6 Amadis of Gaul.” This part was added 
by Feliciano de Silva. 

Roger, the cook, who “cowde roste, 
sethe, broille, and frie, make mortreux, 
and wel bake a pye.”—Chaucer, Cunter- 
bury Zales (1388). 


Roger (Sir), curate to ‘‘ The Scornfal 
Lady” (no name given).—Beaumont and 
Fletcher, Zhe Scornful Lady (1616). 


Roger Bontempe, the personation 
of contentment with his ifation in life, 
ind oO e buoyancy good ho 
“ There's a good time coming, Juhn.” pe 





Comleys_ nent, Oxford Addison, | The 
‘J 9 ® 
*,* The prototype of this famous 
character was air Jobe | seventh 
baronet of the line. 
brother of Marphi’sa; 
brnoe u Atlantés a magician. 


He marri ‘amant, the niece of 
Charlemagne. Rogero was converted to 
Christianity, and was baptized. His 
marriage with Bradamant and his election 
to the crown of Bulgaria, concludes 
poem.—<Ariosto, Oriando Farioso (151 
Whe more brave than Redemen 
than Rogero }—Carvantéa, 


F 


6). 
t? whe more courtecus 
Den Quizcte, 

Roge’ro, son of Roberto Guiscardo the 
Norman. Slain by Tisaphernés.—Tasso, 
Jerusalem Delivered, xx. (1575). 

Roge’ro (8 syl.), a gentleman of Sicilia. 
— Shakespeare, The Winter's Tale (1604). 

*,* is is one of those characters 
which appear in the dramatis 
but are never introduced in ° 
Rogero not only does not utter a wo 


does not even enter the stage all through 
the drama. In the Globe edition 
name is omitted. (See VioLEnta.) 


Roget, the pastoral name of Geo 
Wither in the four ‘ eglogues,” Ted 
Fie ‘ep rds Hunting, (1618). The 

rst and last ogues” are dialogues 
between Roget ‘Sa Willy his young 
friend ; in the second y is 
introduced, and in the third Alexis makes 
a fourth character. The subject of the 
first Arent nich, reason of s =; 

sonment, whi says, is a hunt 
vave great offence. This bunt is in reali 
a satire called Abuses int and Whi; 
The fourth pastoral has its subject 
"s love of poet . ‘ 
oe” “Willy” is his friend William 
Browne of the Inner Temple (two years 
hia junior), author of Britannic's Pas- ( 
8. 








| ROLANDSECK TOWER. . 


declaring “she was no woman but an 
(oa Tobin, The Honeymoon 
KO4), 
The resemblance between Rolando and 
wenasion will instantly occur to the 
mind. 


Rolandseck Tower, opposite the 
Drachenfela. Roland was engaged to 
Aude, daughter of sir Gerard and lady 
Guibourg ; but the lady, being told that 
Roland bad been slain by Angoulaffre the 
Earacen, retired to a convent. The 

ladin returned home full of glory, 

aving slain the Saracen, and when he 

beard that his Indy-love had taken the 
veil, be built Rolandseck Castle, which 
overlooks the convent, that he might at 
least. see the lady to whom he could never 
be united. After the death of Aude, 
Roland ‘sought the battle-field again, 
and fell at Roncevall."—Campbell, Zhe 
Brave Roland, 


Roldan, “El encantado," Roldan 
made invulnerable by enchantment. The 
cleft Roldan," in the summit of a high 
mountain in the kingdem of Valencia, 
was 60 called because it was made by a 
single back-stroke of Koldan’s sword. 
The characteris in two Spanish romances, 
authors unknown.—Jernardo del Carpio 
and Auncesvallés. 

This book [Ainakie de Moenfafhan), and al) others 
eritten oo F eoch matters, ahall be deposlted In some cry 
place... Sicept one called Mernards df Car) io, end 
another called foeciralies, which shall certainly accom. 
rans the rest on the bonfire. —Cervantes, Don Qelsete, L 

G | 1608). 

Rolla, 
and the idol of the army. “In war a 
tiger chafed by the hunters’ spears; in 

ence more gentle than the unweaned 

mb" (act 1, 1). A firm friend and 
most generous foe. Kolla is wounded in 
his attenipt to rescue the infant child of 
Alonzo from the Spaniards, and dies. 
His grand funeral procession terminates 
the drama.—Sheridan, /izarro (altered 
from Kotzebue, 1799). 

John Kemble and two friend: were ming to iern 


tn ani open carriage fran lord Absreorn's, and cae to a 
full: lima 


bliwig for change, Kemilde cried out, in the words of Molla | 


te the army," We met no change, ond leet of all wok 
ehonge mw they would bring aa” (pct LL &).—3. Rogers, 
Fable Talk | 1650). 
Holling Stone. 
The stone that is rolling can gather no mows 
Fot master snl pervant of changing blo 
T. Taser, Tae Polat of Derwifery |“ dd 
hiliones,” 2, Lage). 

Hollo, duke of Normandy, called 
“The Bloody Brother.” He cacsed the 
death of his brother Otto, and slew 
ier nam some out of mere wanton- 


SAl 


kinsman of the inca Atali’ba, | 


Ae the full-keeper aod bia daughter were furm- | 


| and Publius kills her, 
| resigns Publius to execution for murder, 





ROMAN DES ROMANS. 


ness.— Beaumont and Fletcher, The 
Bloody Brother (1639). 

Roman (Thc), Jean Dom the 
French painter, Le Romain (1700-1781). 

Stephen Picart, the French en raver, 
Le Romain (1631-1721). 

Giulio Pippi, called Giulio Romano 
(1492-1546). 

Adrian van Roomen, mathematician, 
Adrianus Romanus (1561-1615). 

Roman <Achillés, Sicinius Denta- 
tus (slain B.c. 450), 


Roman Bird (Tie), the eagle, the 
distinctive ensign of the Roman legion. 

Roman Brevity. Cesar imitated 
laconic brevity when he announced 
to Amintius his victory at Zela, in Asia 
Minor, over Pharna’ son of Mithri- 
datés: Veni, vidi, nici, 

Poins. 1 will imitate the honourable Roman in brevity. 
—fhakespeare, § Senry JF. act il. oe. 3 (1 0oa), 

Sir Charles Napier is credited with a 
far more laconic despatch on making 
bimself master of Scinde in 1843. Taking 
possession of Hyderabad, and outflank- 
ing Shere Mohammed by a series of moat 
brilliant mancuvres, he is said to have 
written home this punning despatch: 
Peecdvi (** 1 have sinned” [Scinde hi 

Roman Father (Tie), Horatius, 
father of the Horatii and of Horatia, 
The story of the trgedy is the well- 
known Roman legend about the Horatu 
and Curiatii. Horatius rejoices that his 
three sons have been selected to represent 
Rome, and sinks the affection of the 
father in love for his country. Horatia 
is the betrothed of Caius Curintius, but is 
also beloved by Valerius, and when the 
Curiatii are selected to oppose her three 
brothers, she sends Valerius to him with 
a scarf to induce him to forego the fight, 
Caius declines, and is slain. Horatia is 
distracted; they take from her e 
instrument of death, and therefore she 
resolves to provoke her surviving brother, 
Publius, to kill her. Meeting him in 
his triumph, she rebukes him for murder- 
ing her lover, seoffs at his ‘‘ patriotism," 
Horatius now 





but the king and Roman people rescue 
him.—W. Whitehead (i741). 

*,* Corneille has a drama on the same 
subject, called Les Horaces (1689). 

Roman des Romans (J+), a 
series of prose romances connected with 
hydra of Gaul, So called by Gilbert 
AUNEr. 








ROMULA. 


to consult how they might best retain hice 
emo them, ‘* For,” said they, ‘he 
will certainly be and his 
relics will bring a fortune to us.” So 





they agreed to strangle him; but their 
intention being told to the hermit he 
secretly made his escape.—St. Foix, 
Essais Historiques sur Paris, v. 168. 

*,* Southey has a on the sub- 
ect. 


Rom’ola, the heroine and title of a 
novel by Georre Eliot (Mrs. Lewes). 
Romulsa married Tito Mel’ema, a Greek. 
(Brought out in Cornhd! Magazine.) 

Romulus (The Sscond and Third), 
Camillus and Marius. Also called ‘“‘ The 
Second and Third Founders of Rome.” 


Romulus and Remus, the twin 
sons of Silvia a vestal virgin and the 
god Mars. The infants were exposed in 
a cradie, and the floods carried the cradle 
to the foot of the Palatine. Here a wolf 
suckled them, till one Faustulas, the 
king's shepherd, took them to his wife, 
who bronght them up. When grown to 
manhood, they slew Amulias, who had 
caused them to be exposed. 

The Greek legend of Tyro is in many 
respects similar. This Tyro had an 
amour with Poseidon (as Silvia had with 
Mars), and two sons were born in both 
cases. Tyro’s mother-in-law confined ber 
in a dungeon, and ex the two infants 

Pelias and Neleus) ge a er the rivet 
ipeus (8 syf.). Here were 
envered and brought up by a herdsman 
(Romulus and Remus were t up by 
a shepherd), and when 
hood, they put to death 
law, who caused them to be ex 
(as Romulus and Remus put to th 
their great-uncle Amulius). 
Ron, the ebony spear of prince Arthur. 
The temper of his sword, the tried Excalfbor, 
and the leasth of Rune his noble spam, 

With Pridwin his great shield. 

Drayton, Petyeldion, fv. (1619. 

Ronald (Lord), in love with lady 
Clare, to whom he gave a lily-white doe. 
The day befure the wedding, nurse 
Alice told lady Clare she was not “‘ lady 
Clare” at all, but her own child. On 
hearing thie, she dressed herself as a 
peasant girl, and went to lord Ronald to 
release him from his engagement. Lord 
Ronald replied, ‘If mn are not the 
heiress born, we will be married to- 
morrow, and you shall still be lady 
Clare.”—Tennyson, Lady Care. 


Bonaldson (Neil), the old ransel- 





man of Jarishof (ch. vii.).—Sir W. Sestt, 
The Pirate (time, William III.). 
p,Ronocevalles Ass ey"), a defile in the 
befell Roland and his army. 
*.* Sometimes the word has oaly & 
ayt., as Ronce.val.les or Ron.ce.val. 
Ba Glover dus Vamals 


morerent eon Ronchevals, 
Resris, Boman de ia Sou, Ui. 1. 13, 152 (thirteenth eomtugt, 
And the dead whe, dasthien oil, 
Pell at famous Renetval. 
consulted 


Rondib’ilis, the physi 
by Panu on the question, 
whether he ought to “erry or let it 
alone."—Rabelais, Pantaz'ruel (1515). 
*.* This question, which Panurge was 
perpetually seting every one, eof course 
refers to 


The 
plone (The Father of the Joan 


one side of the road, the other side 
the high wall of Heaton Park, the 
dence of the earl of Wilton. 


Rope of Ocnus (A), labour. 
OcnusY was always Ae ea rope with 

ili but an ass ate % as 
fast as it was twi 


*,* This allegory means that Ocues 
worked hard to earn money, which his 
wife squandered by her extravagance. 
ene work of Penelopé's web was ‘‘never 

ing, ing,” because Penelops 
pelled ont af night all that ahe hed spn 
uring the day~ Her object was to defer 
doing what abhorred but knew not 
how to avoid. 


Hope- Walk (Gone into the), taken up 
Old Bailey practice. ‘The “‘ rope” refers 
to the hangman's cord.— Barrister? Slang. 

Roper (Jfargaret) was buried with 
the head of her Kine, as Thomas More, 
between her 


Roque (1 syl.), a bi kind-hearted 
old re cena Flornthin Celame 
The Mountaineers (1793). 


Roque Guinart, s freebooter, whose 
real pame was Pedro Guinarda. He 
Quixote. 


is introduced by Cervantés in Don 


lady Dalleck. "Ere marries Mrs. Howaee. 
well's Dickens, Bieak Heues 








ROSANA. 





845 


mow 5 


ROSE OF ARRAGON. 





We rede that tn Engiande was a king that had a 
@unrubyne whose name was Kore, and for hir greate 
he cleped hur Ro-e a mounde (Rusa avundi), that te to any, 
Ro- of the world, for him thought thit she passed al 
wymen in beetye.—R. Pynaon (1443), subssyuency 
printed by Wynken de Worde io 1498. 


The Rosemonde of Alfieri is quite 
another person. (See RosEMOND.) 


Rosa’na, daughter of the Armenian 
queen, who helped St. George to quench 
the seven lamps of the knight of the 
Black Castle.—R. Johnson, Zhe Seven 
Champions of Christendum, ii. 8, 9 (1617). 

Roscius (Quintus), the greatest of 
Roman actors (died B.C. 62). 

What scene of death hath Rosclus now to act ? 
Shakespeare, 3 Henry 1'/. act ¥. ec. 6 (150%). 

Roscius (The British), Thomas Better- 
ton (1635-1710), and David Garrick 
(1716-1779). 

*,* The earl of Southampton says 
that Richard Burbage ‘‘ is famous as our 
English Roscius ” (1566-1619). 

Roscius (The Jrish), Spranger Barry, 
*¢ The Silver-Tongued" (1719-1777). 

Roscius (The Youn7), William Henry 
West Betty, who in 1803 made his debut 
in London. He was about 12 years of 
age, and in fifty-six nights realized 
£34,000. He died, aged 84, in 1874. 


Roscius of France (The), Michel ' 


Boyron or Baron (1653-1729). 


Roscrana, dauzhter of Cormac king 
of Ireland (grandfather of that Cormac 
murdered by Cairbar). KRoscra’na is 
called ‘‘the blue-eyed and white-handed 
maid,” and was “ like a spirit of heaven, 
half folded in the skirt of a cloud.” 
Subsequently she was the wife of Fingal 
king of Morven, and mother of Ossian 
“king of bards.”—Ossian, Zemora, vi. 

*,* Cormac, the father of Roscrana, 
was creat-yrandfather of that Cormac 
who was reining when Swaran made his 
invasion, The line ran thus: (1) Cormac 
J., (2) Cairbre, his son, (3) Artho, his son, 
(4) Cormae II., father-in-law of Fingal. 


Rose, ‘‘the gardener’s daughter,” a 
story of happy tirst love, told in later 
years by an old man who had, in bis 
‘ounger days, tritled with the passion of 
love ; but, like St. Augustin, was always 
‘loving to love” (aamans aidre), and was 
at length heart-smitten with Rose, whom 
he married, (See ALice.)—Tennyson, 
Lhe Gurdener’s Daujhter. 

Ruse. Sir John Mandeville says that 
a Jewish maid of Bethlehem (whom 
Southey names Zillah) was beloved by 
one Ham/uel a brutish sot. Zillah re- 


jected his suit, and Hamuel, in reven 
accused the maiden of offences for which 
she was condemned to be burned alive. 
When brought to the stake, the flames 
burnt Hamuel to a cinder, but did no 
harm to Zillah. There she stood, in a 
garden of roses, for the brands which had 

en kindled became red roses, and those 
which had not caught fire became white 
ones. These are the first roses that ever 
bloomed on earth since the loess of 
paradise. 


As the fyre began to brenne about hire, she made her 
preyeres to oure Lord . ..and anon was the 
queuched and oute, and brondes that weren brennyngs 
becumen white roseres . . and theise wereln the Grst 


i 


Rose. According to Mussulman tradi- 
tion, the rose is thus accounted for: 
When Mahomet took his journey to 
heaven, the sweat which fell on the 
earth from the prophet’s forehead pro- 
duced tehite roses, and that which fell 
from Al Borak’ (the animal he rode) 
produced ycllow ones. 


Rose. On mount Cal’asay (the Indian 
Olympus) isa table on which lies a silver 
rose that contains two women, as bright 
and fair as pearls; one is called Brigas iri 
(‘‘lady of the mouth”), and the other Ts 
ras’iri (‘‘ lady of thetongue”’), because they 
praise God without ceasing. In the 
centre of the rose is the triangle or 
residence of God.— Baldeus. 


And when the bell hath sounded, 
The Rose with all the iny steries | tsurrounded, 
The Bell, the Table, and mount Calasay, 
The holy hill itself with all thereon. . . 
vee away. 
. Cures of Kehama, riz. 11 (lu. 
Rose (Couleur de), an exaggerated 
notion of the excellence or goodness of 
something, produced by hope, love, or 
some other favourable influence. Lov 
for example, sees the object belov 
through a medium of heart-joy, which 
casts a halo round it, and invests it with 
a roseate hue, as if seen through Biase 
tinted with rose-pink. Hence over 
says of Maud: . 


Tenn)scn, Maud, I. xvwil (1888). 
Rose. **Queen rose of the rosebud 
garden of girls."—Tennyson, Maw, I. 
xxii. 9 (1855). 


Rose of m (The), a drama 
by S. Knowles (1842). Olivia, daughter 
of Ruphi’no (a peasant), was married to 
prince Alonzo of Aragon. The king 
would not recognize the match, but sent 
his son to the army, and made the costes 








ROSIPHELE. 


Rosiphele (8 syi.), princess of Ar- 
menia ; of eurpassing beauty, bat = 
sensible to love. She is made to submit 
to the yoke of Cupid by a vision which 
befell her on a Mav-day ramble.—Gower, 
Cmfessio Amantis (1898). 





Rosmon y in Italian, by 
John R. Rucce tai (1 25). This is one 
of the first regular ies of modern 


ti Sophumusba, 0, preceded 
it, being produced sid and performed 


Rosny (Sabina), the g wife of 
lord Sensitive. Ot noble parents, who 
perished under the axe in France.” The 

g orphan, “‘as much to be admired 
Jor ik her virtues as to be pitied for her 
misfortunes,” fled to Padua, where she 
met lord Sensitive.—Cumberland, First 
Love (1796). 


» an officer in the 
army under the duke of Monmouth. Ms 
i ‘Scott, Old Murtality (time, Charles 
i 


oss (The Man of), John Kyrie of 
Ww hitches, in Gloucestershire. So 
called because he resided in the village 
of Ross, Herefordehire. Kyrle was a 
man of unbounded benevolence, and be- 
loved by all who knew him. 
*,* Pope celebrates him in his Moral 
Eatys i iii. © ty 


2. ay. -), the sword which the 
dwarf Bowtie gave to Otwit ki ot 
Lombardy. It was so keen that it 

gap where it cut. 

Jalmung, the sword forged by Wieland 
and given to Siegfried, was so keen that 
it clove Amilias in two without his know- 
ing it, but when he attempted to move 
he fell asunder. 

This cword to thee I give; i is al! bright of hea, 


Whatever it ma cleave 2 Bay OS ee 
From Almari I brought It, Roesd is ite nase. 
The Heldenbuch, 


Rostocos MM. 
N.), author ot After Beef, Mes Beef, al Mestard. 
Rabelais, /antay'ruct, ii. 7 (1533). 


Rothmar, chief of Tromlo. He at- 
tacked the vassal kingdom of Croma while 
the under-king Crothar was blind with age, 
resolving to annex it to his own dominion. 
Crothar's eon, Fovar-Gormo, attacked the 
invader, but was defeated and slain. Not 
many dax . “er. Ossian (one of the 
sons of F ingal) arrived with succours, 
renewed the battle, defeated the victorious 
army, and slew the eel — Ossian, 


ROUND TABLE. 


eldest son a Geka SATIN ce deotland. 


argaret duchess of Rothsay.—Si W. 
scot, Fair Maid of Perth (time, Henry 
mytiye Hatory, fa Norman Freoch, of 
the dukes eT rmend 


d rds, by Robert 
ownwa 
Le B 7 





we soe (anthor of 
_tg* Hout, that ta, Boul, the came as 


Roubigné (Julie de), the beroine aad 
“7eay orl by Henry Mackenz.e 


Rougedragon ( the 
former  eeardian of sof Uline Redgate — 


itr. Md 
Rouncewell (Mrs.), housek 
y 


—C. Dickens, Bleak House (1858). 


Round Table (The), a table made 
at Seren U by} Merlin for Uther the pen- 


mies it to king Leode- 


and when Arthur 
Orarried Guiverer Tthe’ ter of Leo- 
deyraunce), he received table with 
a hundred knights as a wedding 
(pt. i. 45). The table would seat 150 
Knights (pt, ill. 6), and each sost was 
spp propriated. One of them was called 
e ‘‘ Siege Perilous,” because it was fatal 
for any one to sik therein exeept the 
knight who was destined to achieve the 
holy graal (pt. iii. 82). ‘King Arthur 
instituted an order of knighthood calted 
“the knights of the Round Table,” the 
chief of whom were sir Lan air 
Tristram, and sir Lamerock or Lamorake. 
The ‘Siege Perilous” was reserved for 
sir Galahad, the son of sir Launcelot by 
Elaine.—Sir T. Malory, History of Prince 
Arthur 1470). 
ere is a table shown at Win- 
chester as ‘‘ Arthur's Round Table,” 
it corresponds in no respect wi 
Round Table described in the History of 
Prince Arthur. Round Tables were 
unusual, as Dr. Percy has sho 
other kings in the times of chivalry. 
Thus, the king of Ireland, father of 
Christabelle, had his “knights of the 
Round Table.” —See ‘Sir ” in 


Percy's Re 
inthe eaghth you of Réwasd 1. 
Ge Mortimer established 


a Bound Table for "the encccenguoeat 


4 


Fe 


if 


i 








__BOYAL 8TYL STYLE OF ADDRESS. 





RUDDYMANE. 





Royal Style Style of Addrees. 
“My Liege,” the usual style dill the 
Lancastrian usu rpation. 

ween Grace,’ Hen V5 VI 

our Excellent Grace,” e 

Edw ty High and Mighty Prince,” 

ward 

* Your Hi hnesa,” Henry VII. 

** Your “Majesty,” Henry VIIT. 8o 
addressed in 1520, by Francois I. 

* The King’s Sacred Majesty,” JamesI. 

“Your most Excellent Majesty,” 
Charles JI. 

‘‘Your most Gracious Majesty,” our 
present style. 


Royal Titles. 


Winuiam L called hiseself, ** Rex Angaren, omen 
Normaancrum ot 


Hever L called himself, Bez Angierum ot dux Nor- 
mannerum,” Sulwequent te 1166 we find “ Del gratia” 
troduced in charters. 


ie 
Hesay Ih called himself, meni, Rat Angiorym, ot dox Kor, 
mannorura Aquitan 
or “ew Aplin, dur Normaaaie 6 Aquinsin, coma 
hicwarn I. began his charters with, “Del gratia. rex 
Avylte, 6 dux Norraanis ot Aquitanis, ot comes Ando 


@re.” 
angi beaded bis wrnim dur Norman rmanainet i DG. rex 
im, durninue Hibernim, duz o Aquitanin, 
nstead of ** Hiberniss,” we some 


et comes Andegavie roa | 
times find ‘* I al sometiones ° 
eer I. folluved the  sty'e of bie father till Octeber, 
ewton he ack the furm. “DG. rex Angin, 
dnninaa iltbernims ot duz Aquitanta. 
Epwasol oA ted ted the latter style. Be did cow Age It. 


ain 1336. when he 
hern ts.” award L for thirteen years Sended his 


Epwarp 1V., Enw ape V., RecwanD LIL, Hawsr Vil. 

@ontinued the same at 
From Haenay VIL. "(dean we Guoser IIL (1000 the 
the grace Greas 


tuyal atyle and title was, God, of 
Rritain, France, king, Defender of the 


it has been, 


From Georoa III, (1800) to the present 
of Greas 


Bette’ he grace of Gad. of the United Ki 
Bri and Irelaid, king, Defender of the 


A knowledge of these styles is of im- 
mense value in establishing the time of 
royal documents. Richard I. was the 
first to adopt the style, “king of Eng- 
land.” The previous kings called them- 
selves “king of the Ecglish.” 


Ruach, the isle of winds, visited by 
Pantay’ ruel and his companions on their 
way to the urncle of the Holy Bottle, 
The peuple of this island live on wind, 
such as flattery, promises, and hope. 
The poorer sort are very ill-fed, but the 


great are stuffed with h iron 
fais the same ansubstantist 


Pantayruel, iv. 48 (1545). 
Number Ni , 
_2utea sg ein a note 


mountain-s 
ing to our 

Rubi, one of the cherubs or spirits of 
wisdom who was with Eve in paradise. 
He loved Liris, who was young, proud, 
and most fur knowledge. 
asked her lover to let her see him 
in his full glory ; so Rubi came to her in 
his cherubic Jolend iri 


which shot unceasing 

n.—T. Moore, Loves of the 

Angels, ii. (1822). 

Rubicon, a smal) river which sepa- 

rated ancient Italy from Cisalpine 

the province allotted to Julius cs Cuear, 

When Cesar crossed this river, he passed 

beyond the limits of his own 

and became an invader of Italy. 
Rubicon (Napoleon's), Moscow. 

invasion of Moscow was the 

of Napoleon's fall. 


The 


Thou Rome, who thy Ouear’s 
Alm! why he | Nepetcon| too the Rubleont . . « 
Muscow ! limit of his long career, 

rote Coarse ee 


*,° Charles XII. of Sweden formed 
the “resolution of of humbling Peter the 
Great (1709). 


Rubo’nax, a man who hanged him- 
self from mortification and annoyance at 
some verses written upon him b * poste 
(1505) P. Sidney, Defence of ossig 

1 e 

Rubrick {The Rev. Mr.), chaplain 

to the baron 4s Brelwardiny Sit W. 


Scott, Waverley (time, George II. 0 

Ruby (Lady), the oung widow 
lord Ruby. Her “‘ first love wa Freaee 
rick Mowbray, and when a widow she 
married him. She is described a as 


** young blooming, and Ser ceo ser 
and fine asa daisy.""—Cum berland, First 


Love (1796). 

Rucellai (Jokn), ie. 
poet (1475-1525), eon of 

ucellai of Florence, historian and diple- 
matist. 

ane Fe i ie 
(8 ae ew Beer 

gran Rar Ay aoe abbed benoell 





RUFFIANS’ HALL. 


—R. Southey, Rudiger (a balled from 
Thomas Heywood's notes). 


Ruffians’ Hall. West Smithfield 
was for many years so called, because of 
its being the usual rendezvous forduellists, 
pugilists, and other “‘ ruffians.” 


Rufus (or the Red), William II. of 
England (1057, 1087-1100). 

(Mr.), a lawyer living at 
pong ¢ red-haired man, ho 
wore a hat with a high crown and narrow 
brim. Mr. Pancks employed him to 
settle the business pertaining to the estate 
which had long lain unclaim to which 
Mr. Dorrit was heir-at-law. 
delighted in | difficulties as much as 
a housewife in her jams and preserves.— 
C. Dickens, Little (1857). 


ted ro, a young Saracen knight, 
Christian parents. He in 
ore with Bradamant (sister of Rinaldo), 
whom he ultimately married. Rugyierois 
especially noted for possessing a hippogriff 
or winged horse, and a ehield of such 
dazzling splendour that it blinded those 
who looked on it. He threw away this 
shield into a well, because it enabled him 
to win victory too cheaply.—Orlando 
Jnnuimorato (1495), and Orlando Furwso 
(1516). 


Rukenaw (Dume), the ape’s wife, in 
a8 called Reynard the Fos 


Rule a Wife and Have a Wife, 
a comedy by Beaumont and Fletcher 
(1640), Donna Margaritta, a lady of 
great wealth, wishes to marry in order 
to mask her intriues, and seeks for a 
husband a man without spirit, whom she 
can mould to her will. Leon, the brother 
of Alten, is selected as the softest fool 
in Spain,” and the marriage takes place. 
After marriage, Leon shows  bimself 
firm, courayeous, high-minded, but most 
affectionate. Ile ‘rules his wife" and 
her household with a masterly hand, 
wins the respect of every one, and the 


wife, wholly reclaimed, ‘* loves, honours, 
and obeys * him. 


Rumolt, the chief cook of prince 
GUnther of Burgundy.—Nibelungen Lied, 
@vu (1210). 


BRumpelstilschen [Ruwmpile.stilts.- 
skin |, at irritable, OS mied dwarf. He 
aided a millers danghter, who had been 
enjoined by the king to spin straw into 

old ; and the condition made with 

fur this service was that she shou!d 





861 


RUPERT. 


ive him for wife her first . 
e miller’s ter married the 

and when her first dauchter was born 
the mother grieved so bitterly that the 
dwarf consented to absolve of her 
romise, if, within three days, she could 

od out his name. The first y 
the secret was not disco 3 the 


nd passed with no better success ; 
bat ont re third day some of the a's 
heard a strange voice 


Rewpeutinhe! fonyame 
Rumpoeistilschen is 


The queen, being told thereof, saved hes 
child, and the dwarf killed himself from 
rage. —Cerman Popular Stories. 
Run-About Raid (The), Doles be 

insurrection against lord 

ealled from the hasty and inecneank man- 
ner in which the conspirators posted from 
one part of the kingdom to another. 


Buna, the dog of Ekin and Ruro, 


sous of Annir King of is-Thone an 
island of Scandinavia. Tie War 
of Inis- Thona. 

Runners. 


1. Iphiclés, son of Phylakes aad Kly- 
métné. Hesiod says he could ran over 
ears of corn without bending the stems; 
and Demaritos says that he could ran on 
the surface of the sea.—. i. 60. 

2. Camilla queen of the Volsci was so 
swift of foot that she could ran over 
standing corn without bending the om 
and over the sea without wrettit 
feet.—Virgil, Aneid, vii. 808 ; 

Not so when swift Foss Reh a 
Wiles cir th’ uabending cora, and dkime slong the mate 


8. the swift ranner of ki 
Alexander’ He ran so fast that be nevts 
left a foot-print on the ground. | 


mee Phidip idés, a courier, 
ran from Aikens to Sparta (160 4 miles) in 
0 


6. Thea ae taative of ‘Thascs, was 
noted teres swiftness of f 

*,° The Greek hemerod,omos would 
run from tweaty to thirty-six leagues in 
a day. 


HRunnymede, the nom de of 
Benj. Disraeli in the Zimes (1 ). 
Ru i.e. major Roselheim, the 


betrothed of Meeta ‘‘ the maid of Marien- 
Sono (1838 snow lee, The Maid of Marien- 


of Montsone, uni Pecorit of the Pouk 





RUTHVEN. 


also is an orphan, the daughter of sir 
Basil Thoroughgood, who died when she 
was two vears old, leaving justice Day 
trustee. Justice Day takes the estates, 
and brings u Ruth as his own daughter. 
Colonel Careless is her accepted amé de 
caur.—T. Knight, The Honest Thieves. 






Ruthven (Lord) one of the embassy 
from queen E izabeth to M queen of 
Scots.—Sir W. Scott, The (time, 


Elizabeth). 

Butil’io, a merry gentleman, brother 
of Arnoldo.—Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Custom of the Country (1647). 


Rutland (The countess of), wife of 
the earl of Essex, whom he married when 
he started for Ireland. The queen knew 
not of the marri and was heart- 
broken when she heard of it.—Henry 
Jones, The Earl of Essex (1745). 


Rutland (The duchess of), of the court 
of queen Elizabeth. — Sir W. Scott, 
Kenworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Rutledge (Archie), constable at 
Osbaldistone Hall.—Sir W. Scott, Bod 
Roy (time, George I.). 

Rutledye (Job), a smugyler.—Sir W. 
Scott, Redjauntlet (time, George IIT.). 


Rut'terkin, name of a cat the spirit 
of a witch, sent at one time to torment 
the cuuntess of Ratland (sixteenth cen- 
tary). 

Ruy’dera, a duenna who had seven 
daughters and two nieces. They were 
imprisoned for 500 years in the cavern 
of Montesi’nos, in La Mancha of Spain. 
Their ceaseless weeping stirred the com- 
passion of Merlin, who converted them 
nto lakes in the same province.—Cer- 
vantes, Don Quirote, HI. ii. 6 (1615). 


R. V. &. V. P., ie. répondes vite a 
vous plait. 

Ryence (Sir), king of Wales, Ire- 
land’ and many’ of the isles. When 
Arthur first mounted the throne, king 
Ryence, in scorn, sent a messenger to sa 
*‘ he had purfied a mantle with the beards 
of kings; but the mantle Incked one 
more beard to complete the lining, and 
he requested Arthur to send his beard by 
the messenger, or else he would come 
and take had and beard too.” Part of 
the inswlence was in this: Arthur at the 
time was too young to have a beard at 
all; and he made answer, ‘Tell your 
master, my beard at present is all too 
young for purfling; but | have an arm 








te strong enough to drag him hither, 
unless he comes without delay to do me 
homage.” By the advice of Merlin, the 
two brothers Balin and Balan set upon 
the insolent king, on his way to lady De 
Vauce, overthrew him, slew ‘‘ more than 
King Ryence eraved for mercy ¢ 20 © they 
crav so 
laid hits on a horse-litter, sent him 
captive to king Arthur."—Sir T. Mal , 
History of Prince Arthur, i. 24, 84 (147 
Rymar (Mr. Robert) at the § 
Si) W Scoth, St. Honae's Well (time, 
George III.). 
. youngest of the sons of Fingal 
orven. He fell in the battle 
between the Norsemen led by 
Swaran and the Irish led by Fingal. 
pal ayiees Yeats Wartes Saltberae ame 
Warriors mast one day fall.“—Ossian, agai, v. 


shoe 18) of ‘Wits, Rabe- 
7 Greek Yo ros (‘‘foul, nasty). 
ree ] 

a “rye 


ae 


Pliny calls Pyricus the painter 
parographer.” 
Rython, a giant of Brittany, slas 
by king Arthur. (See Ririto, p. 882.) 
tis good. brawt relleved Bret 
mv. Scott, Bridal of Sriermain, iL 1) (3682) 


Saadi or Sant, the Persian called 
“The Nightingale of a Thousand ° 
His poems are The Gulistan or ‘‘ Garden 

” The Bostan or ‘Garden of 
Fruits,” and The Pend-Ndmeh, a moral 
poein. Saadi (1184-1268) was one of 
the ‘‘Four Monarchs of Eloquence” (see 
p» 292). 

Saba or Zaba (The queen of), called 
Balkis. She came to the court lomon, 
and had by him a son named Melech. 
This queen of Ethiopia or Abyssinia is 
sometimes called 3 Maqueda. Zabo, 


Ap. Damian. a Goes. 

The Xordn (ch. xxvii.) tells us that 
Solomon summoned before him all the 
birds to ane valley of ante, but the lap- 
win id not am appearance, 
Solomon was story, and was about te 








Oh. haste and leave this sacred isle, 
Unboly bark. ere mourning smile. 
T. Moure, Jrist Melodi-a (St. Senatus 
and the Lady,” 1814) 


The Sacred Isle, Enhallow, one of the 
Orkneys. (Norse, EyinAalya, “holy isle.) 

The Sucred Isle, the peninsula of 
mount Athos (Ottoman empire). This 
island is remarkable for being exclusively 
inhabited by males. Not only are 
females of the human sex excluded, but 
cows also, mares, sow-pigs, hens, ducks, 
and females of all the animal race.— 
Milner, Gullery of Geography, 666, 


Sacred Nine (The), the Muses, nine 
fm number. 

Fair daughters of the Sun, the Sacred Ning, 
Here wake to ecstasy harps divine, 
Falouner, The Shisasreck, iil. 3 (1708). 

Sacred War ( The), a war undertaken 
by the Amphictyonic League for the 
defence of Delphi against the Cirrhszans 
(B.c. 595-587). 

The Sacred War, a war undertaken 
by the Athenians for the purpose of 
restoring Delphi to the Phocians (B.o. 
448-447). 

The Sacred War, a war undertaken 
by Philip of Macedon, as chief of the 
Amphictyonic League, for the purpose of 
wresting Delphi from the Phocians 
(B.C. 857). 


Sa'cripant (Ainz), king of Circassia, 
and a lover of Angelica.—Bojardo, 
Orlunds Innamoraty (1495); Ariosto, 
Wriundo Furwso (1516). 


With the same otratagem, Sacripant had hie steed 
atolen from under bim, by that uoturious thief Brunello, 
at the siege of Albracca Cervantes, Don Quizoce, 1. Lil. 

°,* The allusion is to Sancho Panza’s 
ass, which was stolen from under him by 
the galley-slave Gines de Passamonte. 


Sa'cripant, a false, noisy, hectoring 
brevvart; a kind of Pistol or Bobadil.— 
Tasso, Secchia Rapita (i.e. ‘* Rape of the 
Bucket"). 


Sadah, the sixteenth nig ht of the 


month Kayaman.— Persian 


Sa’dak and Kalasra‘de (4 syl.). 
Sadak, veneral of the forces of Am/‘urath 
sultan of Turkey, lived with Kalasradé 
in retirement, and their home life was so 
happy that it aroused the jealousy of the 
suJtan, who employed emissaries to set 
fire to their house, carry off Kalasradé to 
the seraylio, and seize the children. 
Sadak, not knowing who were the ayents 
of these evils, laid his complaint before 
Aimurath, and then learnt that Kalasradé 


SACRED NINE. 855 


SAFE BIND, SAFE FIND. 
——— 
was in the seraglio. The sultan swore 
not to force his love upon her till she 
had drowned the recollection of her 
life by a draught of the waters of oblivion. 
Sadak was sent on this expedition. On 
his return, Amurath seized the goblet, 
and, quaffing its contents, found “that 
the waters of oblivion were the waters 
of death.” He died, and Sadak was 
made sultan in his stead.—J. Ridley, 
Tales of the Genii (‘‘ Sadak and Kalasradé,” 
ix., 1751). 


Sadaroubay. So Eve is called in 
Indian mythology. 


Sadder, one of the sacred books of 
the Guebres or Parsis. 


Saddle and the Ground. 
Between the mudile and the ground, 
Mercy he sought, and mercy found 3 
Should be: 


Betwixt the stirrap and the 
Mercy I asked, mercy I foun 


It is quoted in Camden's Remains. “A 
ntleman fell from his horse, and broke 
is neck. Some said it was a judgment 
on his evil life, but a friend, calling to 
mind the epitaph of St. Auzustine, 
Misericordia Domini inter pontcm et fontem, 
wrote the distich given above.” 
Saddletree (Mr. Bartoline), the 
learned saddler. 
Mrs. Saddletrce, the wife of Bartoline. 
—Sir W. Scott, Heart of Midlothian (time, 
George II.). 


Sadha-Sing, the mourner of the 
desert.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Surgeon's 
Dauyhter (time, George II.). 


Semund S8i nN, surnamed 
“the Wise,” an Icelandic priest and 
scald. He compiled the Elder or Rhyth- 
mical Edda, often called Semund’s Edda. 
This compilation contains not only my- 
thological tales and moral sentences, but 
numerous sagas in verse or heroic lays, 
as those of Vélung and Helgé, of Sigu 
and Brynhilda, of Folsungs and Niflungs 
(pt. ii.) Probably his compilation con- 
tained all the mythological, heroic, and 
leyendary lays extant at the period in 
which he lived (1054-1133). 


Safa, in Arabia, the hill on which 
Adam and Eve came together, after 
having been parted for 200 years, during 
which time they wandered homeless over 
the face of the earth. 

Safe Bind, Safe Find.—T. Tusser, 
The Points of Huswifery (‘* Washing, 
1557). 








SAGAMAN, 


in the eighth century, and this saga was 
compiled at the beginning of the four- 
teenth century, a year or two after the 
Hreimekringlta. It is very interesting, 
because Tegner, the Swedish poet, has 
eclected it for hia J/udylls (1R25), Just os 
Tennyson has taken his idyllic stories 
from the forte d'Artiur or the Welsh 
Mabineyion, Teendr's /dylis were trana- 
lated! into English by Latham (1838), by 
Steph: os (1841), and by Blackley (1857), 

3. 2he Siredish Suja or lay of Swedish 
“history” ia the Jn7rara Suyja. 

4, The Russitn Sopa or lav of Russian 
lerendary histury is the Fymunds Sepa, 

5. The Folks Sajas are stories of ro- 
mance. From this ancient collection we 
have derived our nursery talea of Jack 
and the Hean-Stalk, Jack the Giant-Awler, 
the Giant who smelt the Blood of an Enj- 
lishman, Hlwe Foard, Cindereila, the Little 
Cid Wianan cut Shorter, the Pig that 
touldn't yo oper the Firedye, Puss in 
Jieds, and even the first sketches of 
Wiittingion ond Ji Cat, and Buren 
Munchtusen, (See Dasent Tules from the 
Nurse, 1859.) 

6. Siyas of Forevyn oriyin, Besides 
the rich stores of original tales, several 
foreign ones have been imported and 
translated into Norse, euch as Barlaham 
and Jinsapliet, by Kudelf of Ems, one of 
the German minnesingers (see p. 79), 
On the other hand, the minnesingers 
borrowed from the Norse sagas their 
famous etory embodied in the Nrhelunten 
Lied, called the “German J/fwd," which 
is from the second part of Soorro Stur- 
leson’s Eddu. 


Sagaman, a ovarrator of sagas. These 
ancient chroniclers diflered frum sealds 
in several respects. Scalds were min- 
strels, who celelrated in verse the ex- 
ploite of living kings or oativonl heroes ; 
suvgamen were tellersof legendary stories, 


eitlicr in prude of verse, like Schehera- | 


zie the narrator of the Aruna \ejitas, 
the mandann Fuim-lleam the teller of 
the Chinese Jules, Moradbak the teller 
of the Vriental Tulcea, Ferimorz who told 
the taics to Lalla Reookh, and 60 on. 
Avain, é6calila resided at court, were 
allachel ty the roval saite, and followed 
the hin in all bis expeditions; but 
esvamen were free and unattached, and 
told tleir Inles to prince or peasant, in 
lordly hall or at villaze wake, 

Sagam ‘ite (4 #)/.), a kind of soup or 
ee ta given by American Indians to the 

ck. 


85 





(J 


| other works (1803- 





ST. ALDOBRAND. 


‘Our virgins fod her with thelr kindly bowls 
Of fever-tale and eweet mgumité | 
Campbell, Gertrude af 4 poring, i, 19 (OR. 
| of Concord (Ti), Ralph 
Waldo Emerson, of Boston, United 


| States, author of Literary Ethics (1838), 


Poems (1846), Representutice dfen (1850), 
English Trots (1856), and numerous 
). 


io Mr. Emerson we hare a poet and s profoundly re- 


liginns man, who is really owl entirely undaanted by the 


ducts of rclrtice, just, preent, or propectivn In 
hits com, fertry, wlth the joy? o Bacchanal, takes ber 

fer brother science by tee laaad, aod cheer ble with 
moottal larnghter. Dy Enoerson scleniifie ourceptions 
aro Coollimaly trinemote! into Use fever forme and 
warmer line of in idea) world.— Tyndall, Fray- 
mols of Belance, 


Noone who has converss| with the Sage of Concent 
can worrder aft the love which his neighbours fee! for him, 
oS Megund nok Amarien-—dcobrapar’ Pegranmaeat 

al su —Nrwpuper Bagrayplh 
Sherch, May, 18% Ser 


Bage of Monticello (ic), Thomas 
Jefferaon, the third president of the 
United States, whose country seat waa 
at Monticello. . 


4a from the grove where Henry deepe, 
From Vernon's weeping wilkiw, 
Ata irom the craey pall which 
The Sage of MotithewMa . . . 
Virginia, oer Uby lanl of olawes 
A mf foies is gelling 
Whitter, Fuices a! /reedom (LERS). 


Bage of Samos (Tir), Pyth 
a native of Samos (8.0, 584-506), — 

Bages (Tie Sven). (See Seven Wiss 
Mes or Greece.) 

Bag’ittary, a monster, half man and 
half beast, described as ‘‘ » terrible archer, 
which neizhs like a horse, and with eyes 
of fire which strike men dead like 
lightning.” <Any deadly shot is a sagit- 
tary.—Guido delle Colonna (thirteenth 
century), Historia Troyuna Prosayce Com- 
posta (translated by Lydyate), 

The dreadful Sogitiary, 


Apple ee eer, 


Bhokeajeare, Frot'ms ome Cremmiciea (180g), 

(See aleo Of/elln, act i. oe. 1, 3. The 
barrack is so called from the figure of an 
archer over the door.) 

ramour le De'sirus, 
of the Kound Table.—See Launcel 
Lac and Morle d Arthur, 

Ba‘hira (A/), one of the names of 
hell.—Sale, A! Aoran, 1xxix. notes, 

Sailor King (Tic), William IV. of 
Great Dritain (1765, 1830-1837), 

Baint (Jie), Kang-he of China, whe 
assumed the name of Chin-tsou-jin (1653, 
Lid1-1722). 

Bt. Aldobrand, the noble husband 
of lady Imogine, murdered by count 


a knight 
‘ot du 





8T. CLARE. 


St. Clare (Auyustin), the kind, in- 
dulgent master of uncle Tom. He was 
beloved by all his slaves. 

Miss Evanjeline St. Clare, daughter of 
Mr. St. Clare. Evangeline was the good 
an;el of the family, and was adored by 
uncle Tom. 

Miss Opheha St. Clare, sister of Au- 
gustin.— Mrs. Beecher Stowe, Uncle Tom's 
Cabin (1852). 


St. Distaff, an imaginary saint, to 
whom January 7 or Twelfth Day is con- 
secrated. 


Partly worke and partly play 
You must on St. Pistaff’s Day; 
Give St. Distaff all the right, 
Then give Christanas sport good night. 
Wht Asporting in a Pleasant Greve 
of New Fancies (1657). 


8t. Elmo’s Fires, those electric 
lights seen playing about the masts of 
ships in stormy weather. 

And suiden bursting on thelr raptured sight, 
Appeared tho spienduur of St. Elmo's t. 
Arivsto, Oriundo Purtoso, ix. (1516). 

In 1696 M. de Forbes saw more than 
thirty feur St. Hime on his ship. 

Aneas tells Dido that these electric 
lights danced about the head of his son 
Talus when they left the burning city of 
Trov. 

Kece levis sammo de vertice visus lulf 

Fundere lumen apex, tractuque innoxia moll! 


Lanbere famma comas et circum tempora pasct. 
Virgil, .Sneid, i. 688-4, 


Lo! harmless flames upon Julus’ head, 

While we embraced the boy, from beaven were shed, 

Played in his hair and on his temples fed. 

St. Etienne. There are sixty-nine 
places in France so called. <A Paris 
newspaper stated that the ‘receiver of 
St. Etienne” had embezzled £4000, 
whereupon all the tax-jatherers of the 
sixty-nine places called St. Etienne 
brought separate actions avainst the 
piper, and the editor had to pay each 
one a hundred francs damages, besides 
fine and costs.—<Stundurd, February 24, 
1879. 


St. Filume’na or FILoMENA, a new 
saint of the Latin Church. Sabatelli has 
& picture of this nineteenth-century saint, 
representing her as hovering over a group 
of sick and maimed, who are healed by 
her intercession. In 1802 a grave was 
found in the cemetery of St. Priscilla, 
and near it three tiles, with these words, 
in red letters: 


MENA | | PAXTE | | cvs | 


| 
A re-arrangement of the tiles made the 
inscription, Pax Tg-oum, Fi-Ltumena. 


“gD 


859 ST. PATRICK'S PURGATORY. 


That this was the correct rendering is 
quite certain, for the virgin martyr her- 
self told a priest and a pun in a dream, 
that she was Fi[lia} Lumina, the daugh- 
ter Lumina, t.e. the daughter of the 
Light of the world, In confirmation of 
this dream, as her bones were carried to 
Mugnano, the saint repaired her own 
skeleton, made her hair grow, and per- 
formed so many miracles, that those 
must indeed be hard of belief who can 
doubt the truth of the story. 


St. George is the national saint of 
England, in consequence of the miracu- 
lous assistance rendered by him to the 
arms of the Christians under Godfrey de 
Bouillon during the first crusade. 

St. Georyje’s Sword, Askelon. 

George ho shaved the dragon's beard, 
Aad Askelon was his razr. 
Percy's Retiques, IIL HL 18. 

St. George (Le chevalier de), James 
Francis Edward Stuart, called ‘“‘ The Old 
(or elder) Pretender” (1688-1766). 


St. Graal. (See SanxcRaa..) 


St. Le’on, the hero of a novel of the 
same name by W. Goodwin (1799). St. 
Leon becomes possessed of the “ elixir of 
life,” and of the ‘‘ philosopher's stone ;” 
but this knowledge, instead of bringing 
him wealth and happiness, is the source 
of misery and endless misfortunes. 


8t. Leon is designed to prove that the happiness of 

mankind would not bave been augmented by the gifts of 

immortal yuoth and inexhaustible riches.—Znucyge. Brit., 
Romance. 


Saint Maur, one of the attendants 
of sir Reyinald Front de Beuf (a follower 
of prince John).—Sir W. Scott, Jounhos 
(time, Richard 1.). 


St. Nicholas, the patron saint of 
bovs. He is said to have been bisho 
of Myra, in Lycia, and his death i3 placed 
in the year 326. 

Bt. Nicholas is said to have supplied three maidens with 
marrage portions, by leaving at their windows bags of 


money... . Another legend bes the saint as having 
restored to life three |! two} murdered children.— Yonge. 


8t. Patrick’s Purgato in an 
islet in lough Derg, Ireland. "Niere the 
saint made a cave, through which was an 
entrance into purgatory; and here those 
who liked to do so might forestall their 
purgatorial punishments while they were 
in the flesh. This was made the subject 
of a romance in the fourteenth century, 
and Calderon dramatized the subject in 
the seventeenth century. 


Who hae net heard of St. Patrick’s Purgatory . . . with 
its chapels and ite toll-houses? Thither repelr yearly 








SAINTS OF PLACES. 


861 





SAINTS FOR SPECIAL, ETC. 





ToecTH-Acne Et. Appollne cures better than creosote, 
Veauis-DestTeuvies. 8t Gertrode and St. Hukdrick, 
BY these fall, ury Batile, or the Southwark “ vermio-killer." 
om CALTH-Destuweke. Gt. Anse, recomumended to Use 
un. 


Saints of Places. The following 
are the patron saints of the cities, nations, 
or places set down :— 

ANEKEEED, BL Nicholas jiled Ma). His day bb De 
OPiiiler 
Antena, St. Fromentios (died BO). 6s day & 

tuleer 2. 

ALGE AS DEIA, Bt Mark, who founded the charch there 
Waiac Bay, Mbeddas os Apel 

ALPs (Fhe), Felis Nef) ls is-inea), 
Asti, St Margaret phel aya. er day ls Joly 20, 


AUVDESN ig ([TAe). Se Hubert 4-H, *i called 
“The Apostle of the Ardanue” Hi days are May 20 aad 
Nuneuiler 3, 

AkMdsi4. Bt Gregory of Armenia (250-001) His day 
fe epee 

Barn, BL Dovid, from whom benediction the waters of 
Rath re eived thelr warmth and medicinal qualities (459- 
Sii Hie dy bo March 1. 

ReArv AIS. Bt Luclan (died $50), called “ The Apustis af 
Besinaia™” Nis tay is January & 

Bearcat. A. Reoifsce TRL =i dey le Joe 

Bow tea, 6 Wreecedea, 

ERCRSELA, tee Virgin Mary; BL Gudele, who ded TL 
St. Gurtule's Day is January & 

Ca0L AG) (io Bardicls|, st. Efile or BL. Epheeon, 

CAPPAINCLA, Bt Matthias (died aD. ©, His dey be 


Belmuary 24 

Canriiai es, Be ; (die! 300), Her day be March 7. 

Largs Bt LU irele died 43. Hor day le October ZL 

Cart, Bi. Byorldion (fourth century. Hie day & 
Dice ii; luce Dé 

Uicieows, Pt Margaret (dled 735i. Her day la Joly 20, 

Lpswake, Bl. Ane hari (al ADA), whose dep le Fob. 
ruary 4 and Bt. Canute ileal le), wh dy le Jory 1D, 
ae DUBE, Bt Giles (died Sou) Hb day is Beptem- 

| 

KScLASD, Bt. George (died fe, Bt Bevie calle Gregory 
the Girent "The Aye sth af England.” but Ee Augustin 
wae The Ajeste of the English People” (died Gir), Bi, 
Geinge'y Lisp in Apel 2 
ont jie SL Frumention (died M0, His day bs 

Halle oe 

Fia*ene, Be, Pener (fled a). Els day is Jone me, 

Fuinewét, ®t. Johu the Bapelet fled ap. So), Ele 
day: we June 24 and Augeat 2. 

format. Bt. Silvester, lara alles, Ip Latin, pene “ao 
worl.” ie dey ls Jiome SO, 

forts, Bt. Barters (died 225). Her day bp December & 

Peat Ft Tenge idee 79, Hie dey to ether & 
&. Keri bb culled “ Thee Great Apostle of the French” 
(4-2, Mba thay bo Oetober 1. 

FrascNi 4, Bl Killen (lied (0), fle day to Joly & 

FRiktlan nh, BY, Wilber or Willibermd i657-Tims), called 
The Ayswile ofthe Freiana” Hoe das le Miweniber 7. 

Gai St [renaus (ope, whow day b Jone 2: and 
Bu. Mariiy) (216 2), whee day is November JL Bk 
Deri tis called “* Ihe Aqeatic if the Crake” ’ 

en. St Ler ef Caged Alle day bo Apel 

CesTitee Bt. Poul waa The Apotie of the Gentiles 
@iei ad ML idea Jona Bani Jie 

Goma), A Mond, whee dap le eptember 14, 

Rw ATT, Pt Reeniiare, Aponte of the |ermane™ 
(4533), Shier day i June 5; aed Be Marlin ea), 
whi slay le Notennteer 1] it. Ronilace waa cand 
Wintret Ol) Greer 11, changed the name, | 

Gash’, Bt Monn, ale colle Keoiigero (54-01) 

Geo, At Bilveeter, herades siiee, in Latio, ene “es 
Wee!” Wis day ie Joe 
: HiottiasDens, Bt Columb (Bei-SeT), His day be 

une 

Ai, BL Barbers (diel 2), Ber day ip Deron i 

Vitttas, the Wirngin Mary, Her days are: ber Wa- 


ery Sovember 31; Vuitarian, Joly By Cover ption, 


Rermb-r 6; Purideation, Fobruay 9; J aeenption, | 


Auwurt sl 

Hesoasy, BL Lownie; Mary of Aqukgrana (4 ir-la- 
Chavelle; and Bt Anssioion (died G25), whee day lo 
toners = 

lpia, Bt Rertclored de Lae Comme [1474 lie); the Ber 
é. Eilot (2-140) ; and Francia Ravier |Lied- (ia). called 
@ The Apowile of the Indiana” whose day lp December & 





IRELATD, Bt. Patrick (379-000, Hie day in March 17. 
(Some cive his birth 287, and eame his death 4m j 
ITALY, St Anthony (21-60. His day is January 17. 
prea, Nicholas (died iz) His dey fs Doce. 
Lice rtenp, 8. Chad. whe lived there (died 7g). His 
hs Mined 
inne, Br, Albert (ified 1100) Els day ls November #1, 
Lisees, Bt Vincent (died SM). His translation Lis 
MTonak, et Fook snes dey te Semmaty 
Nien, Bet . Fh =; and Bh 
Micharl, whom day ia — =. ' 
Musniw, Bt, Nicholne (died M7). As day ja December 6. 
- Meeweaitn, St. Barbera (lied 06), Ber day le Decemn= 


NaPies, Bt. Janenrhes (diet 291), whos day le Ta 
19; and &. Thomas Aquinas (1227-1274), whose are 
March 7 and July 1 

NETHER LAS DS, St. Annend eel, 
note St Anger (501-8), and Bernard Gilpin 
9 ay AT, St Anacharioa, qille] “The Apostle of the 

‘orth ~ (024), whos i February 1; and St. Glaus 
(FE, Li] i), 7 ; 

Chiron, Bt Friverwida, 

Panta. 81. Juctinn, whem day is October 7; and Bt. 
Anthony (LU05-)291), whee dey ts June 12 

Paki. Bt Geneviews (19-517. Her day bh Janosry D 

Peas | Pao), Dortrstire, W. Ragshaw (Lee) 1702), 

Picts (Pas), ®t Niniws (fourth century), whose day te 
meeater 16; end 8. Columb (S0)-50/), whee dar ls 

one ® 

Pies, Ban Taner 

Potines, 6t. Willer er =e day is Jenoery 14, 

PoLas®, Be Metwhee (1174-1200), whose day bs October 
15, ail St Biaiskas (fief 1078), whee diay ts Moy 7, 

Penta at Bt. Aetmetion (o- Sa) Bee day is Jonery 

Pat sRIA, Bt. Andrew, who dey bs November 2; end 
Bt Alberd flied 1105), whee dey ls Novenihber 71, 

Riv icarin. St Paulinus (30301) Wis day Jone 

Kite, 6. Peterand St Paul futh dinl on toe eome 
- of the month, June The old tutelar deity wae 

aon. 

D rieg te Bt Nicholas, §t Andrew, Bt, George, and the 
kag) ia ary. 

Sacacoes, BL Vincent where he was born (died 394) 
Ais vias iy January BL 

SakOINtA, Mary the mn. Wer doyi are: Satiedty, 
November 7]; Pieifation July 2; Comey sion, December 
8; Perifowvion, February 2; Awompeion, Augiet 1h. 

BOOTLASD, BL Afirew, becuee bi roel were 
beet by Eegulos into Fileshire in 2 Elie day i 
Berean tere OL 

BeessTis (im Armenia), Bt Biales (died 316). Hie day 
le Potrimry 3. 

Sir, Bt. Agia, where eho wee bern fidliel S81}, 
Her day o February & The old tutelar deity wae Corte 

Ertets, Bt Hetviem, ake qulled Avoye (1174-1000). 
His doy ie tictokor )5. 

BLAvas or BLavi, Be Cyril, called “' The Apostle of the 
Bla)” (ile) oe), Ale lay we Petry 1 
Brats, 6 dow the Greater (died aD. HL He doy 

uly Du 

Bukoey, St Anecherio, Bi John, and Bt Erie (X 
(relgne lt 1155-11011 

SwiTauitasp, 8t Gall (dled 668) He dey bb October 
1M, 
Usiren Prares. St eee. day e ¥ 4 
Valleys, EL A-etha jilivel 24] ), rr chraary 
VEvN Ee St Mark. whu waa buried there His day ip 
April 3. 4, Pantalew, whee dey bo July 7; ood 
Lawrence Justiniais |) Eao—] desi. 

Wiewsd, Bt. Btephen |died ap. i). Hille day is Deoem- 
ber Bi 

Viewers, ot. Urban died SO), Wie ls May 
Pht St Mawid, uncle of king Arthur jdied 34) Hfle 

marehy }. 

Weocs, S!. Allvester, because alle, in Latin, means “a: 
woe” His tay ls June 

VOREsHInE, SL Polling (0-0) Aiedep i Jone 2. 


Saints for Special Classes of 
Persons, such as tradesmen, chiidren, 
wives, idiots, atudentas, etc. :— 

Anciigné, 8 Bebastian, becuse be was shot by them, 


AGO. Bene, Bi George of Cappadocia. 
ARTiats and the Agr. Bt Agua; bot @t Lobe is the 


paren of painters, being hil one, 








SAKIA, 


SALEM. 





of working miracles. Tta colour is 
emerald, and its reflection gives the blue 
tint to the sky.— Wohammecdun Mythology. 


Ba'kia, the dispenser of rin, one of 
the four coda of the Adites (2 sy/l.). 
Bakia, #e ineoked for rain; 
We clled on Raseka for food ; 
Thag fd hot hear out praper—they coold pot her, 
No cheel sppearel in beaten, 
Fo olgtth: dew ume down, 
Fouthey, Thalahi fhe Destroyer, |. $4 (1707), 

Sakunta'la, daughter of Viswamita 
and a water-nymph, abandoned by her 
angen and brought up by a hermit. 

2 day, king Dushyanta came to the 
hermitage, and persuaded Sakuntala to 
marry him. In due time a son was 
born, but Dushyanta left his bride at the 
hermitage. When the boy was six years 
old, his mother took him to the king, and 
Dushyanta recognized his wife by a ring 
which he had given her, Sakuntala was 
now publicly proclaimed queen, and the 
boy (whose name was Bliarata) became 
the founder of the glorious race of the 
liliirntas, 

‘This story forma the plot of the famous 
drama “afrnnafada by Kalidasa, well known 
to us through the translation of sir W. 
Jones, 


Sakya-Muni, the founder of Bud- 


dhivm. Sakya is the family name of 


Stidhartha, and muni means “a recluse.” | 


Buddha (‘* perfection”) is a title given to 
Siddhartha. 


Snlacaca’bia or SALACACARY, a soup 
sail to have been served at the table of 
Apiciug. 


Bruise in a mortar parse peed, dried penerpal, dried 


mint, ger, green corlnder, stone! minion, honey, 
fies et oe) wine Pull then juntos Cocabilom, with 
lone crs of Py oruiine bred, ther Beth of a pallet, venting 
rhees, pine kernels, cucuniher, erel dried oulons minced 
gaall Par ep ore ihe whide, gurulal with eow, aed 
mre op in the cralmlum —King, Fae Art af Cmbery, 
Sal'ace (3 e/.) or SALacta, wife of 
Neptune, and mother of Triton. 
Triten, ho boasts hie hich Neptunlan race, 
Byrung from the gud by Kalare’s eralerace, : 
Gms, Last, ri, (LL 
Salad Days, days of green youth, 
while the blowd is still cool, 
[Tha erre) my salad das! 
When | waa green lo jodsenk, coal im bool, 
Phukepeare, Antony dad Wlesyotra, aci Lo 5 (18). 
Sal'adin, the soldan of the Enst. Sir 
W. Seott introduces him in The Zalman, 
first as Sheerkohf emir of Ku rdistan, 
and subsejuently aa Adonbeck el Hakim 
the physician. 
Salamanca, the reputed home of 


Witchcraft and devilry in De Lancre's 
time (L610). 





Salamanca (The Bachelor of), the title 
and hero of a novel by lesage. The 
name of the bachelor is don Cherntim, 
who is placed in all sorta of situations 
suitable to the author's vein of satire 
(1704). 


Salamander (A). Prester Jobn, in 
his letter to Manuel Comnénus emperor 
of Constantinople, describes the gala- 
mander o83 a worn, and says it makes 
cocoons like a silkworm. ‘These cocoons, 
being unwound by the ladies of the 
palace, ore spon into dresses for the 
imperial women. The dresses are washed 
in flames, and not in water. Thia, of 
course, is asbestos. 


Bala'nio, a friend to Anthonio and 
Bassiinio. — Shakespeare, Merchant of 
Venice (1598). 


Salari'no, a friend to Anthonio and 
Bassinio, — Shakespeare, Merchant of 
Venice (1598). 


Ba'leh, The Thamiidites (3 sy/.) 
proposed that Sileh should, by miracle, 
prove that Jehovah was a God superior to 
their own. Prince Jonda said he would 
believe it, if Saleh made a camel, bi 
with young, come out of a certain roc 
which be pointed ont, Sidleh did so, and 
Jonda was converted. 

(The Thamiidites were idolators, and 
Saleh the prophet was sent to bring them 
back to the worship of Jehovah.) 

Saleh's Camel, The camel thus mirecu- 
lously produced, used to go about the 
town, crying aloud, ‘‘ Ho! every one that 
wanteth milk, let him come, and I will 
give it him."—Sale, Al Aordn, vii. notes, 
(See Jsauwh ly. 1.) 


Su'leh, son of Faras’ché (3 sy.) queen 
of a powerful umler-sea empire. Flis 
sister was Guloa’ré (3 sy/.) empress of 
Persia, Salch asked the king of Saman- 
dal, another under-sea emperor, to give his 
daughter Giauha'ré in marriage to prince 
Beder, son of Gulnard; but the proud, 
hep te despot ordered the prince's 

ead to be cut off for such presumptuous 
insolence. However, Saleh made his 
escape, invaded Samandal, took the ki 
prisoner, and the marriage between Iteder 
and the princess Giauharé was duly cele 
brated. — Aruban Nuits (“* Beder and 
Giaularé "). 


Sa'lem, s young seraph, one ef the 
two tutelar angels of the Virgin Mary and 
of John the Divine, “ for bod had gives 
to John two tatelar angels, the shief of 





SALVATOR ROSA. 


865 


SAMTASA. 





Salva’tor Rosa (The English), John 
Hamilton Mortimer (1741-1779). 
Salvato’re (4 sy/.), Salva’tor Rosa, 
an Italian painter, especially noted for 
his scenes of brigands, etc. (1615-1678). 
But. ever and anon, to soothe your vision, 


rated ATIC 
Or jer group of savage 
Byron, Don Juan, rill. 71 (1894). 


Sam, a gentleman, the friend of 
Francis‘co.—Beaumont and _ Fletcher, 
Stuns, Thomas (1619). 


Sam, one of the Know-Nothi or 
Native American party. One of ‘Uncle 
Sam's” sons. 

Sam (Dicky), a Liverpool man. 


Sam (Uncle), the United States of 
North America, or rather the government 


of the states personified. So called from 
Samuel Wilson, uncle of Ebenezer 
Wilson. Ebenezer was inspector of 


Elbert Anderson's store on the Hudson, 
and Samuel superintended the workmen. 
The stores were marked E°A. U°S, 
(‘* Elbert Anderson, United States"), but 
the workmen insisted that U'S. stood 
for ** Uncle Sam.""—Mr, Frost. 


Sam Silverquill, one of the 
prisoners at Portanferry.—Sir W. Scott, 
Guy Munnering (time, George II.). 


Sam Weller, servant of Mr. Pick- 
wick. The impersonation of the shrewd- 
Ness, quaint humour, and best qualities 
vf cockney low life.—C. Dickens, The 
Pickwick Papers (1836). 


Sa’mael (3 syl.), the prince of 
demons, who, in the guise of a serpent, 
tempted Eve in paradise. (See SAMIEL-} 


Samandal, the largest and most 
owertul of the under-sea empires. The 
mhubitants of these empires live under 
water without being wetted ; transport 
themselves instantaneously from  p 
to place; can live on our earth or in the 
Island of the Moon ; are great sorcerers ; 
and speak the language of ‘‘ Solomon's 
seul,” —Arabiun Nyhts (“‘ Beder and Giau- 
hare”). 


Samarcand Apple, sa rfect 
panacea of all diseases. it was ught 

y prince Ahmed, and was instrumental 
in restoring Nouroun’ nibar to perfect 
health, aithough at the very point of 
death. 

lu fect. sir. there ts no disease, however painful oF 


dangerous, whether fever, pleuriay, plague, or any other 
the easiest 


disorder, but It wil] instantly cure; and that In 
387 


powible it a sim ame 
the, appin-drabton Nights ("ahmed and” Pat 


Sam’benites [Sam’.be.ncetz], persons 
dressed in the sambenito, a y low coat 
without sleeves, having devils painted 
on it. The sambenito was worn by 
‘* heretics" on their way to execution. 


And blow us up I the open streets, 
rempe. eam ben ites, 
& Butler, Zudébras, ili 3 (1678). 


Sambo, any male of the negro race. 


No race has shown seach puch capabilities of adaptation te 
ool] and circametances ne the negro 


them qnows of Canada, the rocky land ad of Mew pag and 
land or the of the Southern States. 
Sambo and expand under them all—H. Bessher 


Sam’eri (Aj), the roeelyte 
cast the golden calf at the biddi 
Aaron. After he had made it, 
up some dust on which Gabriel's horse 
had set its feet, threw it into the calfs 
mouth, and immediately the calf became 
animated and began to low. Al Bei- 
dawi says that Al Sameri was not really 
& proper nanie, but that the real name of 
the artificer was Mfisa ebn Dhafar. Bel- 
den says Al Sémeri means ‘the keeper,” 
and that Aaron was so called, 
was the or ‘ guardian of the 
people. Se den, De Dis. Syris, i. 4 (see 
Al Koran, ii. notes). 


Sa'mian (The Long- Haired), Pythe, 


ras or Budde Ghooroos, a native of 
os (sixth century B.C.). 


Samian He’ra. Heraor Heré, wife 
of Zeus. was born at Samos. She was 
worshipped in Egypt as well as in 
Greece. 


who 


eae 


Samian Letter (The), the letter Y, 

used by Pythagoras as an emblem of the 

th of virtue and of vice. Virtue is 

ike the stem of the letter. Once deviated 

from, the further the lines are extended 

the wider the divergence becomes. 
When reason, doubtful, like the Bamian letter, 
Polats him two ways, the narrower the better. 
pe, The Duncied, tv. (176%. 
Ee tidl que Samins diduxit itera ramos. 
Porsins, Setires, 


Samian Sage (The), Pythago 
born at Samos (sixth century B.c.). ™ 


In this late age, edventuinus to Lave touched 
Light on the numbers of the Samian 
Samias’a, a seraph, in love with 
Aholiba’mah the daughter of Cain. 
When the Flood came, the seraph carried 
off his tnmumorata to another planet.— 
Byron, Heaven and Earth (1819). 








SANCHEZ II. 867 


SANGLIER. 





The countess de Lavalette, in 1815, 
libernted her husband, under sentence of 
death, in the same way ; bat the terror she 
suffered so atfected her nervous system 
that she lost her senses, and never after- 
wards recovered them. 


San’ches II. of Castile was killed at 
the battle of Zamo’ra, 1065. 
It was when brave king Sanches 
Was before Zamora 
Longfellow, The Challenge, 

Sanchi’ca, eldest daughter of Sancho 
and Teresa Panza.—Cervantes, Don 
Quixote (1605-15). 

Sancho (Don), a rich old beau, uncle 
to Victoria. ‘He affects the misde- 
meanours of a youth, hides hia baldness 
with amber locks, and complains of tooth- 
ache, to make people believe that his teeth 
are not false ones." Don Sancho “‘ loves 
in the style of Roderigo I.”—Mrs. Cowley, 
A Bold Stroke for a Husband (1782). 


Sancho Panaa, the ‘squire of don 
Quixote. A short, pot-bellied peasant, 
with plenty of shrewdness and good 
common sense. IHle rode upon an ass 


his proverbs. 

Sancho ’anza’s Ass, Dapple. 

Sancho Punza’s Island-City, Barataria, 
where he was for a time governor. 

Suncho Janza's Wife, Teresa [Cascajo 
(pt. 11. i. 5); Maria or Mary [Guticrez 
(pt. HI. iv. 7); Dame Juana [Gutierez 
(pt. f. i. 7); and Joan (pt. I. iv. 21).— 
Cervantes, Don Quirote (1605-15). 

*,* The model painting of Sancho 
Panza is by Leslie ; it is called ‘‘ Sancho 
and the Duchess.” 


Sanchoni’athon or SaANcHONIATHO. 
Nine books ascribed to this author were 
published at Bremen in 1837. The 
original was said to have been discovered 
in the convent of St. Maria de Merinhao, 
by colonel Pereira, a Portuguese ; but it 
Was su0n ascertained that no such convent 
existed, that there was no colonel of the 


name of Pereira in the Portuguese service, | 


and that the paper bore the water-mark 
of the Osnabriick paper-mille. (See Im- 
rostTors, LITERARY.) 


Sanct-Cyr (fh de), the seneschal 
of king René, at Aix.—Sir W. Scott, 
Anne of Geierstcin (time, Edward 1V.). 

Sancy Diamond (The) weighs 53} 
carats, and belonged to Charles ‘‘ the 
Bold” of Dareandy: It was bought, in 
1495, by Emmanuel of Portugal, and was 
sold, in 1580, by don Antonio to the sieur 


| prince of Wales, in Calcutta, Dr. 
which he dearly loved, and was noted for | R 





de Sancy, in whose family it remained for 
a century. The sieur deposited it with 
HenrilV. asa security for aloan of money. 
The servant entrusted with it, being 
attacked by robbers, swallowed it, and 
being murdered, the diamond was re- 
covered by Nicholas de Harlay. We 
next hear of it in the possession 

James II. of England, who carried it with 
him in his flight, in 1688. Lonis XIV. 
bought it of him for £25,000. It waa 
sold in the Revolution; Napoleon I. re- 
bought it; in 1825 it was sold to Paul 
Demidoff for £80,000. The prince sold 
it, in 1830, to M. Levrat, administrator of 
the Mining Society ; but as Levrat failed 
in his engagement, the diamond became, 
in 1832, the subject of a lawsuit, which 
was given in favour of the prince. We 
next hear of it in Bombay; in 1867 it 
was transmitted to England by the firm 


| of Forbes and Co. ; in 1878 it formed part 


of ‘‘ thecrown necklace,” worn by Mary of 
Sachsen Altenburg on her marriage with 
Albert of Prussia; in 1876, in the in- 
vestiture of the Star of India b the 

ussell tells us it was worn as a pendant 
by the maharajah of Puttiala. 

*.* Streeter, in his book of Precious 
Stones and Gems, 120 (1877), tells us it 
belongs to the czar of Russia, but if Dr. 
Russell is correct, it must have been sold 
to the maharajah. 


Sand (George). Her birth name was 
Amantine Lucile Aurore Dupin, after- 
wards Dudevant (1804-1877). 


Sand-Bag. Only knights were al- 
lowed to fight with lance and sword ; 
meaner men used an ebon staff, to one end 
of which was fastened a sand-bag. 

Engaged with money-bags, as bold 
As men with sand-bag did of old. 
& Batler, Hudébras (1063-78). 

San’dabar, an Arabian writer, about 
a century before the Christian era, famous 
for his Parables. 

It was rumoured he could aay 
The Paradies of . 
Longfellow, The Wayside Jnea (preinde, 1863), 

Sanden, the great palace of king Lion, 
a me beast-epic of Reynard Fos 

1498). 


Sandford (Harry), the companion of 
Tommy Merton.—Thomas Day, History 
of Sundford and Merton (1783-9). 


San’glamore (8 syi.), the sword +f 
ae ochio.—Spenser, Faéry Queen, iii, 


Sanglier (Sir), a knight who insisted 





eee = 


SANJAK-SHERIF, 


Sanjak-Sherif, the banner of Ma- 
homet. (See p. 593.) 


Sansar, the icy wind of death, kept 
in the deepest entrails of the earth, called 
in Thalaba “ Sarsar.” 

Rhe passed by rapid descents known to Eblfs,... 
and thus penetrated the very entrails of the earth, where 
breathes the Sansar or icy wind of death.—W,. Beckford, 
Yuthek (1784). 

Sansculottes (8 sy/.), a low, riff-raff 
party in the great French Revolution, so 
shabby in dress that they were termed 
‘‘the trouser-less.” The cudotte is the 
breeches, called brack by the ancient 
Gauls, and Aauts-de-chausses in the reign 
of Charles IX. 


Sansculottism, red republicanism, 
or the revolutionary platform of the Sans- 
culottes. 


The duke of Brunswick, at the head of a large army, 
invaded France to restore Louis XVI. tu the throne, and 
save legitimacy from the sacrilegious bands of sanscalot- 
tian. —G. H. Lewes, Stury of Vorthe's Live. 

Literary Sansculottism, literature of a 
low character, like that of the ‘‘ Minerva 
Press,” the ‘‘ Leipsic Fair,” ‘‘ Hollywell 
Street,” ‘‘ Grub Street,” and so on. 


Sansfoy, a ‘faithless Saracen,” who 
attucked the Red Cross Knight, but was 
slain by him. ‘He cared for neither 
God nor man.” Sansfoy personities in- 
fidelity. 

Ransfoy, full lange of limb and every joint 
* He was, and card not for God or man a point. 
Spenser, Fudry Queen, 1, 2 (1300). 

Sansjoy, brother of Sansfoy. When 
he came to the court of Luciféra, he 
noticed the shield of Sansfoy on the arm 
of the Red Cross Knight, and his rage 
was so great that he was with difficulty 
restrained from running on the champion 
there and then, but Lucifera bade him 
defer the combat to the following day. 
Next day, the tight beyan, but just as the 
Red Cross Kniyht was about ‘to deal his 
adversary a death-blow, Sansjoy was 
enveloped in a thick cloud, and carried 
otf in the chariot of Niyht to the infernal 
regions, where “sculapius healed him of 
his wounds.—Spenser, Fuéry Queen, i. 4, 
5 (1590). 

(The reader will doubtless call to mind 
the combat -f Menalios and Paris, and 
remember Low the Trojan was invested 
in a cloud aud carried off by Venus under 
rimilar circumstances. — Homer, liad, 
iti.) 





Sansloy (‘‘ superstition’), the brother 
of Sansfoy and Sansjoy. He carried off 
Una tw the wilderness, but when the 





869 


SANTIAGO FOR SPAIN. 


fauns and satyrs came to her rescue, he 
saved himself by flight. 

*,* The meaning of this allegury is 
this: Una (truth), separated from St. 
George (holiness), is deceived by Hypo- 
crisy; and immediately tra fons 
hypocrisy, it is carried away by supersti- 
tion. Spenser says the ‘‘simplicity of 
truth” abides with the common people, 
especially of the rural districts, after 
it is lost to towns and the luxurious 
great. The historical reference is to 
ueen Mary, in whose reign Una (the 
eformation) was carried captive, and 
religion, being mixed up with ypoctiays 
degenerated into superstition, but 
rural population adhered to the simplicity 
of the protestant faith.—Spenser, Fatry 
Queen, 1. 2 (1590). 


ennsonetto, a Christian, regent of 

ecca, vicegerent o arlemagne.— 

Ariosto, Orlando Fursoso (1516). 
Sansuenna, now Saragossa. 


Santa Casa, the house occupied by 
the Virgin Mary at her conception, and 
removed, in 1291, from Galilee to Loretto. 


Santa Klaus (1 syi.), the Dutch 
patron 


name of St. Nicholas, the saint 
of boys. 

In Flanders and Holland, the children put out their 
shue or atucking 


on Christinas Eve, in the thas 
Santa Klaus or Knecht Clobes (as they call him) will put 
in a prise for goud couduct before morning.—Yonga. 
Santiago [Sent.yah’.go], the war- 
cry of Spain; adopted because St. James 
(Sant Jajv) rendered, according to tradi- 
tion, signal service to a Christian king of 
Spain in a battle ayainst the Moors. 


Santiago for Spain. This saint 
was James, son of Zebedee, brother of 
John. He was beheaded, and caught his 
head in his hands as it fell. The Jews 
were astonished, but when they touched 
the body they found it so cold that their 
hands and arms were paralyzed.—Fran- 
cisco Xavier, Afales de Gulicia (1788), 

Santiayo’s Head. When San went 
to Spain in his marble ship, he no 
head on his body. The passage took 
seven days, and the ship was steered by 
the ‘presiding hand of Providence.”— 

spata Suj » xx. 6, 

ntiayo had two heads. One of his 
heads is at Braga, and one at Compo- 
stella. 

*,* John the Baptist had half a dozes 
heads at the least, and as many bodies, 
all capable of working miracles. 


Suntiayo the armies of Span 








SARDONIAN SMILE, 871 





The Sarduin herb... the word (motte) “I please in 
| The Purple Island, vill. (1683). 
Sardonian Smile or f 
smile of contempt. Byron expresses it 
when he says: ‘* There was a laughing 
devil in his sneer.” 


But when the villain saw her eo afraid. 

He ‘gan with guileful words her tu 

To bantsh fear, and with Sanionian smile 

Laughing at her, his false intent to shade. 

Spenser, Pudry Queen, v. 9 (1898). 
Sarma’tia, Poland, the country of 

the Sarmate. In 1795 Poland was 
partitioned between Russia, Prussia, and 
Austria. 


Oh, bloutiest in the book of Time! 
Sarmatia fell unwept, without a crime, 
Found not a generuus friend, a pltying foe, 
Strength in her arms, nor mercy in her woe. 
Campbell, Pleasures of Hepe, 1. (1788). 
Sar’ra ‘Grain of), Tyrian dye; so 
called from surra or sar, the fish whose 
blood the men of Tyre used in their 
purple dye.—Viryil, Georytcs, ii. 506. 
Anili vest of purple .. 
Livelier than .. . the graln 


Of @arra, worn by kings and heroes old 
In time of truce. 


Milton, Paradise Leet, xi. 943 (1685). 

Sarsar, the icy wind of death, called 
in Vuthek’ ‘* Sansar.” 

The Sarsar from its womb went forth, 
The icy wind of death. 
Suuthey, Taalada the Destreger, |. 44 (1797). 

Sassenach, a Saxon, an Englishman. 
(Welsh, suesuniy adj. and saesonsad noun.) 

I would, If I thought I'd be able to catch some of the 
Samenachs in Loonjoa —lery Far West indeed. 

Satan, according to the Talmud, was 
once an archanyel, but was cast out of 
heaven with one-third of the celestial host 
for refusing to do reverence to Adam. 

In mediwval mythology, Satan holds 
the fifth rank of the nine demoniacal 
orders. 

Johan Wier, in his De Prestigiis 
Damonum (1554), makes Beelzebub the 
sovereign of hell, and Satan leader of 
the opposition, 

In \eyendary lore, Satan is drawn with 
horns and a tail, saucer cyes, and claws; 
but Milton makes him a proud, selfish, 
ambitious chief, of gigantic size, beauti- 
ful, daring, and commanding. He de- 
clares his opinion that ‘*’tis better to 
reiyn in hell than serve in heaven.” 
Defoe hae written a Political History of 
the Devil 1°26). 


Satan, according to Milton, monarch of 
hell. lis chief lords are Beélzebub, 
Moloch, Chemos, Thammuz, Dagon, 
Kinanen and Belial. His standard- 
bearer, Aaaz’el. 





SATURDAY. 
shape and sualre proudly eminent 
eminen 
Peood o 8 tuwer. is form had not yet lest 
All her origi tues ; Dor ap 
Grin, a Lees than archan . and the excess 
Cr iba redo 
Bet ba his faded check - cruel his eye, but cnst 
Signs of remorse. 


Milton, Paradise Leet, |. 380, ete. (1688). 

*.* The word Satan means “ enemy ;” 
hence Milton says: 

To whom the arch-enemy, 
. +. in heaven called Satan. 

Paradies Leet, |. 8) (1088) 

Satanic School (The), a clases of 
writers in the earlier part of the nine- 
teenth eentury, who showed a scom for 
all moral rules, and the generally received 
dogmas of tbe Christian religion. The 
most eminent English writers of this 
school were Bulwer (Ae Beh ert 
Lytton n, Moore, and P. B. ey. 
OF, web writers : Paul de Kock, Rous- 
seau, George Sand, and Victor Hugo. 


rebelled against 
and hating revelation which they try in vain to disbelieve, 
labour to make others as miserable as themselves. by 


sol, Die taal wiih th, base ante may 
ment (preface, 1823). 

Satire (Futher of), Archildchos of 
Paros (B.c. seventh century). 


Satire (Father of French), Mathurin 
Regnier (1573-1613). 

Satire (Father of Roman), Laciliuw 
(B.c. 148-103). 


Satiro-mastix or The Untrussing 
v the Humorous Poet, a comedy by 

omas Dekker (1602). Ben Jonson, in 
1601, had attacked Dekker in Zhe 
Poetaster, where he _ calls himself 
‘© Horace,” and Dekker ‘ Cris’pinus.” 
Next year (1602), Dekker replied with 
spirit to this attack, in a com entitled 

stiro-mastiz, where Jonson called 
** Horace, junior.” 


Saturday. To the following English 
sovereigns from the establishment of the 
Tudor dynasty, Saturday has proved a 
fatal day :— 

Henry VII. died Saturday, April 21, 


Geores II. died Saturday, October 
25, 1760. 

GrorGoe III. died Saturday, January 
29, 1820, but of his fifteen children only 
three died on a Saturday, 

GrorGrK IV. died Saturday, June 26, 
1430, but the princess Charlotte died on a 
Tuesday. 








SATURN, 


Paisce Awvenr died Saturday, De- 
eember 14, 1861. The duchess of Kent 
and the princess Alice also died on a 
eMtuTuayY. 

*.” William III., Anne, and George I. 
all died ona Sunday; William 1V. on a 
Tuesday. 








— 


Saturn, son of Heaven anda Earth, 
Tle alwave swallowed his children imme- 
intel y ther born, till this 
Rhea, nut liking to see all her children 
perish, concealed from dim the birth of 
Jupiter, Nepte and Pluto, and 

larcre SLOneSs inztend, which 
if- 


were wife 


Tie, rn 2 
her bimstoatd 
he awal li We il 
ference, 

Al ie is 1 Sotord ale hile hi EN j 

Fait wehbe ile ai rt eve hig wires 

ii i) wil Bitte, Of flee ee De a e.. 


Vea 
ey ter 8 


fla oark en ee 
Without Koowing the 


i a! dion, ZLE 
adfurn, an evil aud malignant planet. 


He io wa gents fullof gull, an gouthbor bor under the 
planet BAUR, @ Trend loam mT), Whee DY Orie 


i Fathi ll the work Lee, i! hee © 12 iT 


THe chiklren torn under the aud Saturne shall] be preet 
fengelers god chvders " im they will never foreywe 
fhU they be revenged of theyr quarclL—Ptholofveus, 
iL re fs zt, 


Batyr. je Woolner ealla (‘harles LI. 


i 2 
Chorles the Satvr. 
Neat foiresd Cuirkes Balyr's avturmalla 
LPG Lally i W Lea 


M yy Fre rer iad wires 2 


-~ é = : 
TI ee TST Ta EDLY 


ul =: Lie uc of the = 





B72 4 §=SAVIOUR OF THE NATIONS. 





*.* This was the “divine right” of 
kings, 

Saunders, groom of sir Ceoffrey 
Peveril of the Peak.—Sir W. Scott, 
Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles IT.). 


Saunders (Richard), the pseudonym of 
Dr. Franklin, adopted in Poor Richard's 
Almanac, begun in 1732, 


Saunders Sweepclean, a king's 
messenger at Knoockwinnock (Castle.— 
Sir W. Scott, Zhe Antfiquary (time, 
George ITJ,). 


Saunderson (Sounders), butler, etc., 
to Mr. Comyne Hradwardine 
baron of Hradwardine and Tully Veolan. 
—Sir W. Scott, Waverley (time, George 
i1.). 


Saurid, king uf Ecypt, say the Cop- 
tites (2 syi.), built the pyramids 300 
years before the Flood, and, according to 
the game authority, the following inserip- 
tion was engraved upon one of them :— 

i. ki 


(.ostno 


ne Saurll, buollt the pyramids... . aod Onlebed 


them io sic years, He that comes etier oe. . . let hie 
detroy then io Ge) if been... | ale covered then 


with satin, mod let bli cover then With maiiineg — 
brett, Pyramidograpmiia (aerenipenih cenfuryh 


Saut de l’Allemand (/f¢), “do 
hit & la table, et de la table av bt” 
Of the code |] hot ak 
ka | 


That my life, Ike the Lenp of the German, may be 
* Diag table gle bp hil lin . 

















SAVOY. 


duke of Wellington was termed after the 
overthrow of Bonaparte (1769-1852). 


Ob, Wellington . . . called ** Saviour of the Nations!” 
Uyron, Lon Juan, ix. & (1824). 


Savoy (The), a precinct of the Strand 
(London), in which the Savoy Palace 
stood. So called from Peter earl of 
Savoy, uncle of queen Eleanor the wife 
uf Henry III. Jean le Bon of France, 
when captive of the Black Prince, was 
lodged in the Savoy Palace (1356-9). 
The old palace was burnt down by the 
rebels under Wat Tyler in 1381. enry 
VII. rebuilt it in 1505. St. M le 
Savoy, or the ‘Chapel of St. John,” 
still stands in the precinct. 





Sawney, a corruption of Sandie, a 
contracted form of Alexander. Sawney 
means a Scotchman, as David a Welsh- 
man, John Bull an Englishman, cousin 
Michael a German, brother Jonathan a 
native of the United States of North 
America, Micaire a Frenchman, Colin 
Tampon a Swiss, and so on. 


Sawyer (/35), a dissipated, strug- 
gling young medical practitioner, who 
tries to establish a practice at Bristol, 
but without success. Sam Weller calls 
hin ‘* Mr, Sawbones.”"—C. Dickens, The 
Pukuwk Papers (1836). 


Sax'ifrage (3 sy/.). So called from 
its virtues as a lithontriptic. 

Bo saxitrage fa good, and hart’s-tongue for the stone, 

With agrunvuny, and that herb we call St. John. 
Draston, Polyoldten, xiii. (1613). 

Saxon. Higden derives this word 
from the Latin sarum, ‘‘a stone.” This 
reminds one of Lloyd's derivation of 
‘“Treland,” ‘the land of Ire,” and Du- 
canye’s ‘* Saracen” from ‘* Surah, Abra- 
ham's wife.” Of a similar character are 
** Albion” from albus, ‘‘ white;” ‘ Picts" 
from pictus, painted ; * « Devonshire ” 
from Dehon's share; “Isle of W ight” 
from ** Wihtjar, son of  Cerdic; 
‘Britain “ from /rutus, a descendant ‘of 
fincas, ‘‘ Scotland " from shotos, * dark- 
ness;" ‘‘Gaul” (the French) from 
gains, ‘““a cock ;” ‘* Dublin,” from 
dih[inm linCteum), u questionable linen,” 
and so on. 


Men of that cowntree ben more lyghter an4 stronger on 
th. sce than other sconumers or theeves of the me... 
and ben called Saxones, of sarum, a stone. for they ‘ben 
as hand as stunes.— fol geronscon, | 96 (1357). 


“tron, Drayton says, is so called from 
an instrument of war called by the Ger- 
wans Aaundsur., The seas was a shoit, 
crooked sword. 








878 SCALLOP-SHELL. 





And of those crooked skains they used in war to bear, 
Which In their thundering tongue the Germans Aandsseg 


hame, 

They Sazons first were named. 
Polyolbdion, iv. (1612). 

Saxon Duke (The), mentioned by 
Butler in his Audibras, was John Frede- 
rick duke of Saxony, of whom Charles 
V. said, ‘‘ Never saw I such a swine 
before.” 


Say and Mean. You speak like a 


Lamituk, you say one thing and mean 
another. Th e Basque Lamifaks (‘‘ fairies’’) 
always say exactly the contrary to what 
they mean. 


Sde said to her, “I mast go from home, but 
fs in the kitchen; smash the pitecber, 

the ve them their brenkfast by 

themselves, smudge their and rumple weil their 

hair.” When the Lamifak returned home, she asked 


gi 


the girl which abe of charcoal or a 
of gold. a beautiful star of a donkey's tail? The 
answer, “A bag of a donkey's tail.” 
Whereupon the fairy gave her a bag of and ¢ 
ie star. — Rey. we Webster, Busque Legends, 53 


boge (Jean), the hero of a romance 
by C. Nodier (1818), the leader of a 
bandit, in the aparit of lord Byron's Cor- 
sair and Lara. 


Scadder (General), agent in the 
office of the ‘‘Eden Settlement.” His 
peculiarity consisted in the two distinct 
expressions of his proutile, for ‘‘ one side 
seemed to be listening to what the other 
side was doing.”—C. Dickens, Martin 
Chuzzlewit (1844). 


Scalds, court poets and chroniclers of 
the ancient Scandinavians, They resided 
at court, were attached to the royal suite, 
and attended the king in all his wars, 
They also acted as ambassadors between 
hostile tribes, and their persons were held 
sacred. These bards celebrated in son 
the gods, the kings of Norway, an 
national heroes. Their lays or vyses 
were compiled in the eleventh century 
by Semund Sigfusson, a priest and 
scald of Iceland, and the compilation is 
called the Elder or Rhythmical Edda. 


Scallop-Shell (The). Every one 
knows that St. James’s grime are dis- 
tinguished by scallo but it is a 
blunder to suppose that o ilgrims 
are privileged to wear them. ree of 
the popes have, by their bulls, distinctly 
confirmed this right to the Com 
pilgrim alone: viz., pope Alexander III., 
pope Gregory IX., and pope Clement V. 

Now, the escallop or scallop is a shell- 
fish, like an oyster or large cockle; but 
Gwillim tells us what ignorant zoologista 
have omitted to mention, that tl.e Livalve 





SCAPINO. 





mol dans ce noble métler.—Moliire, Lea Fourberias de 
Seapin, L 2 |1Gr1). 

(Otway has made an English version of 
this play, called The Chouts of Soapin, 
in which [aandre is Anyglicized into 
** Leander,” Geronte is called ‘ Gripe," and 
his friend Argante father of Zerbinette 
is called “ Thrifty” father of ** Lucia.”) 


Boa pin, the cunning, knavish ser- 
vant of Gratiano the loquacious and 
pedantic Bolognese doctor,—J/talian Mask, 


Scar’amouch, a brageart and fool, 
most valiant in words, but constantly being 
drubbed by Harlequin. Scaramouch is 
a common character in Italian farce, 
originally meant in ridicule of the Spanish 
dun, and therefore dressed in Spanish 
costume. Our clown is an imbecile old 
idiot, and wholly unlike the dashing pol- 
troon of Italian pantomime. 
‘‘Scaramouches " that ever lived were 


Tilerio Fiurelli, a Neapolitan (born 1608), | 


aod Gandini (eighteenth century). 


Scarborough Warning (A), 4 
warming piven too late to be taken advan- 
ture of, Fuller save the allusion is to an 
event which occurred in 4557, when 
Thomas Stafford seized upon Scarborough 
(‘astle, before the townsmen had any 
notice of his approach. Heywood says a 
 Scarboroujh warning” resembles what 
is now called Lynch law: punished first, 
and warned afterwards. Another solution 
ia this: If ships passed the castle without 
galuting it by striking sail, it was custom- 
ary to fire into them a shotted gun, by 
way of warming. 

Ke suftiy seldom, ond never fot much. , . 
it Korboruw warning, oa [li [ believe, 
When (Air, | arret pe") gets bok) of thy eleere. 
T. Tuser, Fiew Hundred Points af Good 
Sushondry, © (7). 


Scarlet (Wil), Seadlock, or 


Scathelocke, one of the companions 


wf Kolin Hood. 
“Take ‘hy geal bewe in thy hands,” mld Koln, 
* Let Meche wer) wilh the | tie | 
dita! =o chal) Wy ljem Boathelocke, 
And po man abyde with me.” 
Hien, fehin Meo oleae, L 1 [LOL 
The tinker bovking him ales, 
Fe ehin hie boris ciel ble : 
Tien cue onite him Witte Jol 
WLLL 


Atel i LOO, . 
Ditto, i. T (ene). 
Aral there of him they maul o 
tod yeoman Robin Hina, 
Bearlet areal Litth John, 
And Little John, bey ho! 
Ditto, appendix § (1T80). 
In tha two dramas called Je Firs! and 
&ecund Parts of Kobin Hood, by Anthony 
Munday and Henry Chettle, Scathlock or 
Bemliock ia called the brother of Will 
Scarlet. 


The best 





875 SCHACABAC. 
as . pons that Warman‘’s epite.. . doth hot the lives 
Of bonnis Searlet aod his bro Bec Uh line be 
Pt L (lor) 


Then “ enter Warman, with Scarlet and 
Scathlock bounde,” but Warman is ba- 
nished, and the brothers are liberated and 
pardoned. 

Scarlet Woman (The), popery (Reo 
Vil. 4). 

And fulminated 
Against the scarlet woman and her creed. 
Tennyeon, Seu Loreena, 

Scathelocke (? ay/.) or Bcadl 
one of the companions of Robin Hood, 
Either the brother of Will Scarlet or 
another spelling of the name. (See 
SCARLET.) 


Scavenger’s Daughter (The), an 
instrument of torture, invented by sir 
William Skevington, lievtenant of the 
Tower in the reiyn of Henry VIII. * Sca- 
venger" is a corruption of Skevington. 

v kus the scavenger's daughter, to 
suffer punishment by this instrument of 
torture, to be beheaded by a guillotine op 


some similar instrument. 


Scazon, plu. Scazon'tes (3 syl.), a 
lame iambic metre, the last being a 
spondee or trochee instead of an iambus 
(Greek, stazo, “to halt, to hobble "), as: 


L Qulcumque regno fdlt, of magna pith 
& 0 Mom, gresum qum volens treats chiidum, 


Or in English : 

L. A litte onward lend thy guiding hand. 

2 He unsuspicious led bin; when Bamenn . . . 
(1 is the usual iambic metre, 2 the sca- 
zontes.) 

Sceaf | Sice/], one of the ancestors of 
Woden. So called because in infancy he 
was laid on a wheatsheaf, and cast adrift 


| io a boat: the boat stranded on the shores 
| of Sleawig, and the infant, being considered 


o gift from the gods, was brought up 


for a future king.—Seownlf (an Anglo- 
Saxon epic, sixth century). 
Beepticiam (futher of Modern), 


Pierre Hayle (1647-17046), 


Bchacabac, “ the hare-lipped,” s man 
reduced to the point of starvation, invited 
to a feast by the rich Barmecide. Instead 
of victuals and drink, the rich man set 
before his guest empty dishes and empty 
glasses, pretending to enjoy the imagin- 
ary foods and drinks. Schacabac entered 
into the apirit of the joke, and did the 
same, He washed in imaginary water, ale 
of the imaginary delicacies, and praised 
the imaginary wines, Barmecide was so 
delighted with hia quest, that he ordered 





SCHLEMIHL. 877 





Bagdad. She fell in love with Aboul- 
hassan Ali ebn Becar prince of Persia. 
From the first moment of their meeting, 
they began to pine for each other, and 
fell sick. Though miles apart, thev died 
at the same hour, and were both buried 
in one grave.—Arahian Nijhts (‘‘ Aboul- 
hassan and Schemselnihar"). 


Schlemihl (Peter), the hero of a 
popular German legend. Peter sells his 
shadow to an ‘Sold man in grey,” who 
meets him while fretting under a dis- 
appointment. The name is a household 


term for one who makes a desperate and | 4, convent, she treats men as if the 


silly bargain.—Chamisso, Peter Schle- 
mihd (1813). 


Scholastic (The), Epipha’nius, an 
Italian scholar (sixth century). 


Scholastic Doctor (The), Anselm 
of Laon (1050-1117). 


Scholey (Lawrence), servant at 
Burgh-Westra. His master is Magnus 
Troil the udaller of Zetland.—Sir W. 
Scott, The Pirute (time, William ITI.). 

*,* Udaller, one who holds land by 
allodial tenure. 


Schonfelt, lieutenant of sir Archibald 
von Hayenbach a German noble.—Sir W. 
Scott, Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward 
IV.) 


School of Husbands (L'école des 
Muris, ‘‘wives trained by men”), acomedy 
by Moliere (1661). Ariste and Sgana- 
relle, two brothers, bring up Leonor and 
Iaabelle, two orphan sisters, according to 
their systems for making them in time 
their model wives. Syanarelle’s system 
was to make the woman dress plainly, 
live retired, attend to domestic duties, 
and have few indulgences.  Ariste’s 
rvstem was to give the woman great 
liberty, andtrust toher honour. Isabelle, 
brought up by Sganarclle, deceived him 
and marriedanother ; but Leonor, brought 
up by Ariste, made him a fond and faith- 
ful wife. 

Seanarelle’s plan : 


Jentend que la mienne vive & ma fantasio— 

Que d une serge honnéte elle alt son vétement, 

Et ne porte, le noir qu’ aux bons jours seulement ; 
Qu’ enferinde au low, en perronne bien ange, 

Elie applique toute aux chuses du ménags, 

A reoudre non Lage aux heures de loidr, 

du tien @ tricoter quelqres dear op) plalalr ; 

Qu’ aus diwours des muguets elle ferme loreilla, 
Bi ne sorte Jainais sans avoir qui la veille 


Arista’a plan: 


Leur ese aloe & joulr d'un pen de liberté ; 
(Co de recaent fort mal par tant d’austérité ; 
ht jee sot defiante bes verrour et les grilles, 
Me fout pas la vert dos femmes ni des filles; 





SCIO. 


Cest Mhonnear qui les doit tentr dans le devote, 
Non la sévérité que nous leur falsone volr . . 
Ja trouve que le cosur est ce qu'll faut gagner. 
Act i. 2, 
School for Wives (L'école des 
Femmes, ‘ training for wives’), acomedy 
by Molitre (1662). Arnolphe has a 
crotchet about the proper training of girls 
to make good wives, and tries his scheme 
upon Agnes, whom he adopts from a 
peasant’'s cottage, and designs in due time 
to make his wife. He sends her from early 
childhood to a convent, where difference 
of scx and the conventions of society are 
wholly ignored. When removed from 


were schoolgirls, kisses them, plays wit 
them, and treats them with girlish 
familiarity. The consequence is, a youn 
man named Horace falls in love wi 
her, and makes her his wife, but Arnolphe 
loses his pains. 

Chacun a sa arxthode 
En femme, comme en tout, Je veux suivre ma mode. «. 
Un air doux et posé, parm! d'autres enfants, 


M'ipapira de l'amour pour elle des quatre ans ; 
Ba mére se trouvant de pauvreté presée, 
demander 


De la lui fl nse vint en pensée; 
Ee la bonne ne, apprenant mon desire, 
A s‘Oter cette eut beaucoup de plaisir. 


Dans un petit courent, loin de toute 
Je la fis élever sion ma politique. 44: 
L 


Schoolmen. (For a list of the 
schoolmen of each of the three periods, 
see Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, 794.) 


Schoolmistress (The), a poem in 
Spenserian metre, by Shenstone (1758). 

e ‘‘schoolmistress” was Sarah Lloyd, 
who taught the poet himself in infancy. 
She lived in a thatched cottage, before 
which grew a birch tree, to which allusion 
is made in the poem. 

There dweils, In lowly shed, and mean attire, 

A matron old, whom we schoolmistress name... 

And all :o sight doth rise a birchen tree. 

Stansns 8, 3. 

Schreckenwald (/tal), steward of 
count Albert.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Schwanker (Jonas), jester of Leo- 
pold archduke of Austria.—Sir W. 
Scott, Zhe Tulisman (time, Richard !.). 


Scian Muse (The), Simon’idés, born 
at Scia or Cea, now Zia, one of tha 
Cyclades. 

The Scian and the Telan Muse [A ncereon) . . . 
Have found the fame your shores refuse. 
byron, Den Juan, til (** The Isles of Greece,” 180). 

Science ( The prince of), Tehuhe, ‘The 
Aristotle of China" (died a.p. 1200). 

Scio (now called Chios), one of the 


seven cities which claimed to be the 
birthplace of Homer. Hence he is 








SCONE. 


a Brahmin, carry on your back gach an 


unclean animal asadog?" “Itis nota 
doy,” says the Hralimin, “but a goat;"” 
and trudged on. [Presently another made 
the same remark, and thie Hirahmin, be- 

inning to doubt, took down the goat to 
foot at it. Convinced that the creature 
was really a goat, he went on, when 
presently a third made the aame re- 
mark. The Brabiiin, sow fully persuaded 
that hia eyes were befooling him, threw 
down the goat anil went away without it; 
wherenpon the three companions took 
possession of it and cooked it, 

In Tyll Evlenspicjel we have a similar 
hoax. Eulenspievel sees & man with a 
piece of green cloth, which he resolves 
fo obtain. He employs two confederates, 
Joth priests. Says Eulenspiegel to the 
man, **What a famous piece of blue 
cloth! Where did you get it?" ‘* Blue, 
you fool! why, itis yreen.” After ashort 
contention, a bet is made, and the ques- 
tion in dispute is referred to the first 
comer. This was a confedernte, and he 
at once decided that the cloth was blue. 
‘You are both in the same boat,” says 
the man, “ which | will prove by the priest 
yonder.” The question being put to the 
priest, is decided agninet the nian, and the 
three rogues divide the cloth amongst 
them. 

Another version is in novel 8 of For- 
tini. The joke was that certain kids 
he had for sale were capons.—See Dun- 
lop, //istory of Fictun, vill. art. “* Ser 
Giovanni.” 

Scone Shoot apalladium stone. Jt 
was erected in Teolmikil for the coronation 
of Fergus Eric, and was called the /ja- 
Fuil of Ireland. Fergus the son of Fergus 
Eric, who led the Lialriads to Argy! shire, 
removed it to Scone; and Kudward Jf. 
took it to London. Jt still remains in 
Westminster Ablwy, where if forms the 
support of Edward the Confessers chair, 
which forms the coronation chair of the 
British monarchs, 


NI fallat fatum, Sect! queswrqer lennon 
Invesaent lapidem. meciary tenon lar |leders 
ner, Winery af Sootiand, L OF (ERR, 


Where'er this stene la plored, Lhe lates decree, 
The Neottish race eal! (ers Le sovereigns be 
*,* Of course, the “ Scottish mee" is 
the dynasty of Use Stuarts and their 
BUuCccCcssUrS. 


Scotch Guards, in the eervice of 
the French kings, were called his gurde ds 
corps, The origin of the guard was this: 
When St. Louis entered upon his first 
crusade, he was twice saved from death 


SCOTLAND A FIEF, ETC. 





= Li -S  —  f 


by the valour of a smal! band of Scotch 
auxiliaries under the commands of the 
enris of March and Dunbar, Walter 
Stewart, and sir David Lindsay. In 
gratitude thereof, it was resolved that 
‘a standing guard of Scotchmen, recom- 
mended by the king of Scotland, should 
evermore form the body-guard of the 
king of France.” This decree remained 
in force for five centuries.—Grant, Zhe 
Seoltish Cavalier, xx. 


Sco'tia, Scotland; sometimes called 
‘*Scotia Minor.” The Venerable Bede 
tells us that Scotland was calied Cale- 
donia till aA.p. 258, when it was invaded 
by a tribe from Treland, and its name 
changed to Scotia. 


Scotia Magna or Major, Ireland. 


Scotland. So called, according to 
lezend, from Scota, daughter of Pharaoh. 
What gives this legend especial interest 
is, that when Edward I. laid claim to the 
country as a fief of England, he pleaded 
that Brute the British king, in the days 
of Eli and Samuel, had conquered it. 
The Scotch, in their defence, pleaded 
their independence in virtue of descent 
from Scota, daughter of Pharaoh. This 
is not fable, but sober history.—Rymer, 
Fodera, I. it. (1703). 

Seotland Yard (London). So called 
from a palace which stood there for the 
reception of as Kin of Scotland when 
he came to England to pay hom to 
his over-lord the king of kagland, 


Scotland a Fief of land. 
When Edward I. laid claim to Scotland as 
a fief of the English crown, his great plea 
was that it was awarded to Adelstan by 
direct miracle, and, therefore, could never 
be alicnated. His advocates seriously 
read from The Life and Miracles of St. 
John of Beverley this extract: Ade'stan 
went to drive back the Scotch, who had 
crossed the border, and, on reaching the 
Tyne, St. John of Beverley appeared to 
him, and bade him cross the river at 
daybreak. Adelstan obeyed, and reduced 
the whole kingdom to submission. On 
reaching Dunbar, in the return march, 
Adelstan prayed that some sign might 
be given, to testify to all ages that God 
lai delivered the kingdom into his 
hands. Whereupon he was commanded 
to strike the basaltic rock with his sword. 
This did he, and the blade sank into the 
rock ‘‘as if it had been butter,” cleaving 
it asunder for ‘‘an ell or more.” As the 
cleft remains to the present hoar, in testi- 











SCOURGE OF SCOTLAND. 


881 





SCROGGEN, 





and the other gods to be myths (120- 
200). 


Scourge of Scotland, Edward I. 
Scotérum Malleus (1289, 1272-1307). 


Scrave-All, a soapy, pealm-singing 
hypocrite, who combines with Cheatly to 
supply young heirs with cash at most 
exorbitant usury. (See CHEATLY.)— 
Shadwell, Squire of Alsatia (1688). 


Scrape on,Gentlemen. Hadrian 
went once to the public baths, and, seeing 
an old soldier scraping himself with a 
petsherd for want of a flesh-brush, sent 
him a sum of money. Next day, the 
bath was crowded with potsherd scrapers ; 
but the emperor said when he saw them, 
‘* Scrape on, gentlemen, but you will not 
scrape an acquaintance with me.” 


Scribble, an attormey’s clerk, who 
tries to get married to Polly Honey- 
combe, a silly, novel-struck girl, but well 
off. He is happily foiled in his scheme, 
and Polly is saved from the consequences 
of a most unsuitable match.—G. Colman 
the elder, Pully Huneycombe (1760). 


Scrible’rus (Cornelius), father of 
Martinus. He was noted for his pe- 
dantry, and his odd whims about the 
education of his son. 

Martinus Scriblérus, a man of capacity, 
who had read everything ; but his judg- 
ment was worthless, and his taste per- 
verted.—(?) Arbuthnot, Memoirs of the 
Extraordinary Life, Works, and Dis- 
coreri’s of Martinus Scritherus. 

*,.* These ‘‘memoirs” were intended 
to be the first instalment of a general 
satire on the false taste in literature 
prevalent in the time of Pope. The only 
parts of any moment that were written 
of this intended series were Pope's 7rea- 
tise of the Rathos or Art of Sinkine in 
Poetry, and his Memoirs of P. P., Clerk 
of this Purish (1727), in ridicule of Dr. 
Rurnet's [History of His Own Time. The 
Drnciad is, however, preceded by a Pro- 
legomenda, ascribed to Martinus Scriblerus, 
and contains his notes and illustrations on 
the poem, thus connecting this merciless 
satire with the original design. 


Scriever (Jock), the apprentice of 
Duncan Macwheeble (bailie at Tully 
Veolan to Mr. Cosmo Comyne Brad- 
wardine bar n of Bradwardine and Tully 
Veolan).—Sir W. Scott, Waverley (time, 
George I1.). 


Scriptores Decem, a collection of 
ten ancient chronicles on English history, 


in one vol. folio, London, 1652, edited 
by Roger Twysden and John Selden. 
The volume contains: (1) Simeon Du- 
nelmensis (Simeon of Durham], Historia; 
() Johannes Hagustaldensis [John of 
lexham], Historia Continuata ; (3) Ri- 
chardus Hagustaldensis [Richard of 
Hexham], De Gestis Reyis Stephani ; ( 
Ailredus Rievallensis f ilred of Rieval] 
Historia (geneaiogy of the kings); ( 
Radulphus de Diceto [Ralph of Diceto], 
Abbreviationes Chronicorum and Ymagines 
Historiarum; (6) Johannes Brompton, 
Chronicon ; (7) Gervasius Dorobornensis 
Gervais of Dover], Chronicu, etc. (burn- 
ing and repair of Dover Church ; conten- 
tions between the monks of Canterbury 
and archbishop Baldwin; and lives of 
the archbishops of Canterbury); (8) 
Thomas Stubbs (a dominican), Chronsca 
Pontificum eco. Eboraci [t.¢. York} 5 (9) 
Guilielmus Thorn Cantuariensis (of Can- 
terbury], Chronica; and (10) Henricus 
Knighton Leicestrensis [vf Leicester], 
Chrunica. (The last three are chronicles 
of ‘‘ pontiffs ” or archbishops.) 


Scriptores Quinque, better known 
as Scriptores Post Bedam, published at 
Frankfurt, 1601, in one vol. folio, and 
containing: (1) Willielm Malmesburi- 
ensis, De Gestis Regum Anylorum, Historia 
Notella, and De Gestis Pontificum Anglo- 
rum ;(2) Henry Huntindoniensis, Historia 3 
(3) Roger Hovedeni [Hoveden], Annales ; 
(4) Ethelwerd, Chronica ; and (5) Ingal- 
phus Croylandensis [of Croyland], His- 
toria. 


) 


Scriptores Tres, three “ hypo- 
thetical” writers on ancient history, 
which Dr. Bertram professed to have dis- 
covered between the years 1747 and 1757, 
They are called Richardus Corinensis [of 
Cirencester], De Situ Britannia ; Gildas 
Badonicus; and Nennius Banchorensis 
fot Bangor}. J. E. Mayor, in his pre- 
ace to Ricardi de Cirencestria Speculum 
Historiale, has laid bare this literary 
forgery. 


Scripture. Parson Adams's wife said 
to her husband that in her opinion ‘‘it 
was blasphemous to talk of Scriptures 
out of church.”—Fixlding, J An- 


drews. 
A impression in my youth 
Was made by Mra. Adams, where she criss, 
“That Scriptures out of church are blasphemous.” 
Byron, Don Juan, xili 96 (1886), 


Scroggen, a poor hack author, cele- 
brated by Goldsmith in his Description 
of an Author’s Bedchamber. : 

L 





SCULPTURE. 888 








iv. 10).—Spenser, Faéry Queen, iii., iv. 
(1590-6). 


Sculpture (Father of French), Jean 
Goujon (1510-1572). G. Pilon is 80 
called also (1515-1590). 


Scyld, the king of Denmark preceding 
Beowulf. The Anglo-Saxon epic poem 
called Beowulf (sixth century) begins 
with the death of Scyld. 


At his appointed time, Scyld deceased, very decrepit, 
and went into the pence of the Lord. They... bure 
him to the sea-shore as he himself requested. . . . There 
on the beach stood the ring-prowed ship, the vehicle of 
... Poudy to ect gut. They laid duwn the dear 
prince, the distributer of rings, in the buseom of the ship, 
the mighty one beside the mast». . they set up a goklen 
ensign high overhead .. . they gave him to the 

Bad was their spirit, mournful thelr mood.—Kemble, 
Beowulf (an 0 poem, ). 


Scylla and Charybdis. The 
former was a rock, in which dwelt Scylla, 
a hideous monster encompassed with dogs 
and wolves. ‘lhe latter was a whirlpool, 
into which Charybdis was nietamor- 
phosed.—Classic Fuble. 


Scylla and Charybdis of Scot- 
land, the ‘Swalchie whirlpool,” and 
the ‘Merry Men of Mey,” a bed of 
bruken water which boils like a witch's 
caldron, on the south side of the Stroma 
Channel. 

(‘*Merry Men;" men is a corruption 
of main in this phrase.) 


Scythian (7hat Brave), Darius the 
Persian. According to Herod’otos, all 
the south-east of Europe used to be called 
Scythia, and Xenophon calls the dwellers 
south of the Caspian Sea ‘‘ Scythians” 
also. In fact, by Scythia was meant the 
south of Russia and west of Asia ; hence 
«she Hungarians, a Tartar horde settled 
on the east coast of the Caspian, who, in 
8849, crossed into Europe, are spoken of 
as “ Scythians,” and [ord Brooke calls 
the Persians ‘‘Scvthians.” The reference 
below is to the following event in Persian 
history :—The death of Smerdis was kept 
for a time a profound secret, and one of 
the officers about the court who resembled 
him, usur the crown, calling himself 
brother of the late monarch. Seven of 
the high nobles conspired together, and 
slew the usurper, but it then became a 
question to which of the seven the crown 
should be offered. They did not toss for 
it, but they did much the same thing. 
They agreed to give the crown to him 
whose horse neighed tirst. Darius’s horse 
won, and thus Darius became king of the 
Versian empire. 


SEA-CAPTAIN. 





That brave Scythisn, 
Who found more vweetnes in bis aoree'y nee 
Than all the PryGan. OOo’ Brooke (1064-1608). 
*,* Marlowe calls Tamburlaine of 
Tartary ‘‘a Scythian.” 
Threatening waning the world with high astounding terme 
Marlowe, Taraburiaine (prologue, 15967). 
Scythian’s Name (The). Humber 
or Humbert king of the Huns invaded 
England during the reign of Locrin, 
some 1000 years B.c. In his flight, he 
was drowned in the river Abus, which 
bas ever since been called the Humber, 
after ‘‘the Scythian's name.”—Geoffrey, 
British History, ii. 2 (1142); and Milton's 
History of Enjland. 
Or Humber loud that keeps the Scythian’s name. 
Milton, Vacation Ezercise (1627). 
Sea (The Great). The Mediterranean 
WAS 50 by the ancients. 


Sea (The Waterless). Prester John, in 
his letter to Manuel Comnénus emperor 
of Constantinople, says that in his country 
there is a ‘‘ waterless sea,” which none 
have ever crossed. It consists of tumbling 
billows of sand, never at rest, and contains 
fish of most excellent flavour. 

Three days’ journey from the coast of 
the Sand Sea 18 a mountain whence rolls 
down a “waterless river,” consisting of 
small stones, which crumble into sand 
when they reach the ‘‘ sea.” 

Near the Sand Sea is a fonntain called 
Mussel, because it is contained in a basin 
like a mussel-shell. This is a test foun- 
tain. Those who test it, strip off their 
clothes, and if they are true and leal, the 
water rises three times, till it covers 
their head. 


Sea-Born City (Zhe), Venice. 


Sea-Captain (7he), a drama by lord 
Lytton (1839). Norman, ‘‘ the sea-cap- 
tain,” was the son of lady Arundel by her 
first husband, who was murdered. He was 
born three days after his father’s murder, 
and was brought up by Onslow, a village 
priest. At 14 he went to sea, and became 
the captain of a man-of-war. Lady 
Arundel married again, and had another 
son named Percy. She wished to ignore 
Norman, and to settle the title and estates 
on Percy, but it was not to be. Norman 
and Percy both loved Violet, a ward of 
lady Arundel. Violet, however, loved 
Norman only. <A scheme was laid to 
murder Norman, but failed; and at the 
end Norman was acknowledged by his 
mother, reconciled to his brother, and 
married to the ward. 








SEBASTIAN. 


man's apparel), and was invited by the 
countesa Olivia to take shelter in her 
house from a street broil, Olivia was in 
love with Viola, and thinking Sebastian 
to be the object of her love, married him, 
—Shakespeare, Zwelfth Night (1614). 


Sebastiim, brother of Alonso king of 
Naples, in The Tempest (1609), 


Sebastian, father of Valentine and 
Alice.—Beaumont and Fletcher, Mona, 
Divas (1619), 


Seustian (Don), king of Portugal, is 
defeated in battle and taken prisoner by 
the Moors (1574). He is saved from 
death by Dorax a noble Portuguese, 
then a renegade in the court of the 
emperor of Barbary. The train being 
dismissed, Dorax takes off his turban, 
assumes his Portuguese dreas, and is 
recognized as Alonzo of Alcazar.—Dry- 
den, Jon Sefeastian (1690), 

The quarrel and renoneliistion of Rehastian and Dern 





(alias Alonzo of Ale ear lea masterly copy from eeeollar | 


scene betwen Brute aml Uaesius jim Sieg pau y oF alla 
Casur|—I Gumber:, Anglisl Literafere, | 240, 
Jon Jehasfvin, a name of terror to 
Mowriah children. 
Bor shall Se taxilan’s formidable name 
Be eoger deed to atl) the cry ire betes. 
Dep den, fon Sebsatian (10). 
Sebastian I. of Brazil, who fell in 
the battle of Aleazarquebir in 1478. The 
levend ia that he is not dead, but is 
patiently biding the fulnesa of time, 
when he will return, and make Brazil the 
chief kingdom of the earth. (See bar- 
BAOSSA, ) 


Sebastoec'rator (The), the chief 
officer uf state in the empire of Greece. 
Same aa Protosebastos.—Sir W. Scott, 
Count Llobert of Paris (time, Rufus). 


Bebile (2 sy/.), la Dame du Lae in 
the romance called /erceforest. Her 
castle was surrounded by 4 river, on 
which rested so thick a fog that no one 
could see mcroas it. Alexander the 
Great abode with her a fortnight to be 
cured of his wounds, and king Arthur 
wus the result of thia amour (vol. i, 42). 


Becret Hill (Tie). Ossian said to 
Oscar, when he resigned to him the 
command of the murrow's battle, ‘* Ke 
thine the secret hill tu-night,” referring 
to the liaelic chstom of the commander 
of an army frelinoy to a secret bill the 
nivht before a battle, to hold communion 
with the ghesis of departed heroes,— 
Qasian, Cathlin of Clutha, 


Secret Tribunal (The), the count 





| of Waterloo, 





ee 





SEDLEY. 


of the Holy Vehme.—Sir W. Scott, Anm- 
of Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Becrets. The Depository of the Secrets 
of all the World was the inscription over 
one of the brazen portals of Fakreddin's 
valley.—W. Beckford, Vathek (1784). 


Sedgwick (Doomsday), William 
Sedgwick, a fanatical “prophet” in the 
Commonwealth, who pretended that it 
had been revealed to him in a visior 
that the day of doom was at hand, 


Bedillo, the licentiate with whom 
Gil Blas took service as a footman, 
Sedillo was a gouty old gourmand of 69, 
Being ill, he sent for Dr. Sangrado 
who took from him six porringers of 
blood every day, and dosed lim im. 
cessantly with warm water, giving him 
two or three pints at a time, saying, “‘a 
patient cannot be blooded too much ; for 
it 18 a great error to suppose that blood is 
needful for the preservation of life. 
Warm water,” he maintained, ‘dronk in 
abundance, is the true specific in all 
distempers.” When the licentiate died 
under this treatment, the doctor insisted 
it was because his patient had neither 
lost blow enough nor drunk enough 
warm water.—Lesage, Ud Blas, ti. 1, 2 


(1715). 


BSedley (Mr.), a wealthy London 


| stock-broker, brought to ruin by the 


fal] of the Fonds just prior to the battle 
The old merchant then 
tried to earn a meagre pittance by selling 
wine, coals, or lottery-tickets by com- 
mission, but his bad wine and cheap 
coals found but few customers. 

Mrs. Sedley, wife of Mr. Sedley. A 
homely, kind-hearted, benny, motherly 
woman in her prosperous days, but 
soured by adversity, and quick to take 
offence. 

Amelia Sedley, daughter of the atock- 
broker, educated at Miss Pinkerton's 
academy, Chiswick Mall, and engaed 
to captain George Osborne, son of a nich 
London merchant, After the min of 
old Sedley, Georre married Amelia, and 
was disinherted by hia father. He was 
adored by his young wife, but fell on 
the field of Waterloo, Amelia then 
returned to her father, and lived in great 
indigence, but captain Dobbin greatly 
loved ber, and did much to relieve ber 
worst wants, Captain Dobbin roge in 
his profession to the rank of colonel, and 


| married the young widow, 


Joseph Sedley, a collector, of Boggley 





[Sa - 


SELIM. 





Selim, son of Abdallah, who was 
murdered by his brother Giaffir (pacha of 
hae After the death of his brother, 
Ginfir (2 syl.) took Selim under his 
charge and bronght him up, but treated 
him with considerable cruelty, Guiaffir 
had a daughter named Zuleika (3 ay/.), 
with whom Seliuo fell in love; but 
Zulvika thought he was her brother. As 
sxon as Giafir discovered the attachment 
of the two cousins for each other, he 
informed bis daughter that he intended 
her to marry Osmyn Bey; but Zuleika 
eloped with Selim, the pacha pursued 
after them, Selim was shot, Auleika 
killed herself, and Giaffir was left child- 
less and alone.—Byron, Bride of Abydos 

(1s13). 


Selim, son of Achar, Jehanguire was 
called Selim before his accession to the 
throne, He married Nourmahal the 
“Laivht of the Ilaram,"” but a conlness 
rose up between them. One night, Nour- 
mahal entered the sultan's banquet-room 
as a lute-player, and so charmed youn 
Selim that he exclaimed, “If Nourmah 
had so sung, I could have forgiven her!" 
lt was enough. Nourmahal threw off 
her diszuise, and became reconciled to 
her husband.—T. Moore, Lalla Rookh 
(** Light of the Haram,” 1817). 


Sem, eon of the Moorish king of 
Algiers. [Hornsh] Barbarossa, the Greek 
renegade, having made himself master 
of Algiers, slew the reigning king, but 
Selim escaped. After the lapse of seven 
years, he returned, under the assumed 
laine of Achmet, and headed an uprising 
of the Moors. The insurgents succeeded, 
Barbarosea was slain, the widowed queen 
Zaphira was restored to her husband's 
throne, and Selim her son married Irénd 
daughter of Harbarossa,—J. Brown, Bar- 
burvasu (1742 or 1755). 

Selim, friend of Etan (the supposed 
son of 4amta the mandarin).—Murphy, 
Lhe Orphan of China (1759). 


Sel'ima, daughter of Bajazet sultan 
of ‘Turkey, in love with prince Axalla, 
but promised by ber father in marnage 
to (hoar, When Selig refused to marry 
Omar, ajazet would have slain her; but 
‘Tamerlane commanded both Bajazet and 
mar to be seized. So every obstacle 
was removed from the union of Selima 
and Axalla,—N. Rowe, Jamerl/ane (1702). 


Sel'una, one ef the ax Wise Men from 
the Laat led by oy! eet star to Jesus, 
=-Klopstock, Z/w MesmuA, v. (1771). 





887 SEMIRAMIS OF THE NORTH. 








Be'lith, one of the two guardian 
angels of the Virgin Mary and of John 
nt Divine.—Klopstock, The Messiah, ix. 

1771). 


Sellock (Cisly), a servant-girl in the 
service of Indy and sir Geoffrey Peveril 
of the Peak.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the 
Peak (time, Charles IJ.). 


Selma, the royal residence of Fingal, 
in Morven (north-west coast of Seot- 
land). 

Be! thy halls ore silent, There lb no mond ie the 
woot: of Morveo,—(slan, Lathnwrn 

Belvaggio, the father of sir Indu 
and the hero of Thomson's Castle ie 
dolence. 

In Fairy-tand there lived a knight of old, 

it feature etern, Relvacgio well y-clepet ; 
. her yamaha oan Me cieat ane Gott nor reaped 
Ne stores in minmer for cold winter heapesL , 

In honting al) bls day away he wore— 

Now sorched by June, now lo November cleepad, 

How pinched by biting January ra, 

He atill in woods pursed the libherd and the boar. 
Thomaon, Custle aj /miolenes, iL 6 (17@5). 

Semele (5 sy/.), ambitious of enjoy- 
ing Jupiter in all his glory, perished 
from the sublime effulgence of the god, 
This is substantially the tale of the 
second story of T. Moore's Loves of the 
Anjels. Liris requested her angel lover 
to come to her in all hia angelic bright- 
ness; but was burnt to ashes aa she fell 
into his embrace. 


ot pekenty, Siva ane Se ASeA. = 
A Pops) senile, o rae glo) 
Like Simel), would 


Semi'da, the young man, the only 
son of a widow, mused from the dead by 
Jesus, as he was being carried from the 
walls of Nain, He was deeply in love 
with Cidli, the daughter of Jairus, 

He wea in the thine of ifs, His hole hong in core 
on hie shonklers, ond he appeal aa ema) a David: 
when, ne ee eee ht crt maiehed 
ai the voice of Gol —Klopeteck, The Meuniad, by, (1771), 

Semir’amis, queen of Assyria, wife 
of Ninus. She survived her husband, 
and reigned. The glory of her reign 
stands out so prominently that she qu:te 
eclipses all the monarchs of ancient 
Assyria. After a reign of forty-two 
years, she resigned the crown to her son 

tinfas, and tuwk her fight to heaven in 
the form of a dove. Semiramis was the 
daughter of Derctto the fish-goddess 
and a Syrian youth, and, ayes exposed 


in infancy, was brought up by doves. 


Semiramis of the North, Mar. 
ret, daughter of Waldemar IL, of 
mark, At the death of her father, 


Semkail, the angel of the winds and 
waves. 


I keep the winds In awe with the hand which you ree 
fim the air, and prevent the wired Haddge from coming 
forth. If I gave it freedom, if would reduce the universe 
to powder. With ay other band To hinder the ea from 
oterfiowing, without eliuch | recaution it woul! cover the 
ce of the whole earth. —Comte de ayius. Oriental Tales 
¢' History of Abdal Mutalleb,” 174 


Semo (Son of), Cuthullin general of 
the Irish tribes. 


Sempro’nius, one of the ‘ friends ” 
of Timon of Athens, and ‘‘the first man 
that ecr received a mft from him.” 
When Timon sent to borrow a sum of 
money of ‘‘ his friend,” he excused him- 
eelf thus: As Timon did not think 
proper to apply to me first, but asked 
others before he sent to me, I consider 
his present application an insult. ‘‘ Go,” 
said he to ‘the servant, ‘and tell your 
master : 

Who hates mine honor shal] not know my coin.” 

Shakespeare, Timon of 4t.ena, act tlh ac. 3 (160). 

Sempro'nius, a treacherous friend of 
Cato while in Utica. Sempronius tried 
to mask his treason by excessive zeal 
and unmeasured animosity a,rainst Ciesar, 
with whom he was acting in alliance. 
He loved Marcia, Cato's dauzhter, but 
his love was not honourable love; and 
when he attempted to carry otf the lady 
by force, he was slain “by Juba the 
Numidian prince.—J. Addison, Cutu 


(1713). 
TU conceal 
My thoughts In pasdon, “tis the surest way. 
r ul bellow out for Rome and for my ecuntry. 





SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY. 


SERASKIER. 





for his convent. Sterne refused to give 
anything, but his heart smote him for his 
churlishness to the meek old man. From 
Calais he goes to Montriul (Montreuil- 
sur-Mer), and thence to Nampont, near 
Creaay. Here occurred the incident, which 
is one of the most touching of all the 
sentimental sketches, that of ‘‘ The Dend 
Ass.” Ilia next sts was Amiens, and 
thence to Paris. While zh at the 
Hiastille, he heard a voice eryin ‘l can't 
et out! I can't get out!" He thought 
it was a child, but it was ouky a caged 
starling, This led him to reflect on the 
delights of liberty and miseries of cap- 
tivity. Giving reine to his fancy, he 
imaged to himself a prisoner who for 
thirty yeara had been confined in a dun- 
geon, during all which time “he had 
geen no sun, no moon, nor bad the voice 
of kinsman breathed through his lattice.” 
Carried away by his feelings, he burst 
into tears, for he “could not sustain the 
poe of confinement which hia fancy 
mad drawn.” While at Paris, our tourist 
visited Versailles, and introduces an in- 


eident which he had witnessed some years | 


previously at Kennes, in Brittany. It 
was that of a marquis reclaiming his 
eword and *‘ patent of nobility.” Any 

nobleman in France who engaged in 
trade, forfeited bis rank; but there was 
a law in Lrittany that a nobleman of 
reduced circumstances might deposit his 
ewird temporanly with the local magis- 
tracy, and if better times dawned upon 
him, he might reclaim it. Sterne was 
present at one of these interesting cere- 
monies. A marquis had laid down his 
sword to mend his furtune bw trade, and 
after a successful career at Martinico for 
twenty years, returned home, and re- 
claimed it. Un reeciving his deposit from 
the president, he drew it slowly from the 
scalluard, and, obeerving a spot of rust 
near the point, dropped a tearonit. Aa 
he wiped the blade lovingly, he remarked, 


ha | shall find sume other way to get it | 


off.” Returning tu Pana, our tourst 
wtarts for Italv; but the book ends with 
his arrival at Moulines (Moulins), Some 
half a league from this city he encountered 
Maria, whose pathetic story had been 
told bim by Mr, Shandy. She had lost 
her gout when Sterme saw her, but had 
instead a litth doy named Silvio, led by 
astring. She was sitting under a poplar, 

laying on a pipe her vespera to the 
Vitein l‘oor hi iria had been croseed in 
love, or, to speak more strictly, the curd 
of Moulines bad forbidden her ‘banns, and 

38 


| thirteen instead of twelve, ip 





the maiden lost her reason. Her story fa story is 
exquisitely told, and Sterne says, ‘‘ Could 
the traces be ever worn out of her brai 
and those of Eliza out of mine, she should 
nut only eat of my bread and drink of my 
cup, but Maria honk lie in my bosom, 
aod be unto me as a daughter.” 


Sentinel and St. Paul’s Clock 
(Zhe). The sentinel condemned to death 
by court-martial for falling asleep on his 
watch, but pardoned because he affirmed 
that he heard St. Paul's clock _— 

a 
Hatfield, who died at the age of 102, 
ees 1770. 


povangt A (Captain), one of the members 
ot the club onder whose auspices the 
nas was professedly wen 


ber Massacre (Tie), the 

meee? of loyalists mn in the 
attege This massacre took place in 
Paris between September 2 and ‘5, 1792, 
on receipt of the news of the capture of 
Verdun, The number of victims was 
not less than 1200, and some place it as 
hich as 4000, 

September the Third was Crom- 
well’ day. On September 3, ae he 
won the battle of Dunbar. On Sep- 
tember 5, 1651, he won the batts of 
Worcester. On September 3, 1658, he 
died. 


Berab, the Arabic word for the Futa 
monjana, —See Quintus Curtius, De Retns 
Alecandri, vii. 


The Arable wor) Sert4 signifies that fale appa 

which, in Eastern countries, la often seen In ae plains 

shogt ooon, reeembling a large lake of water in 

It ts commskimonl by the reverberation of the gunienm, 

A emelime teampia thirsty travellers oof of thelr way, 
tut deceive: fem when they come near, liar 

forward or quite rankshing.—Sale, di Kerdn, oly. pole, 


The actions of onbellevreas ore like the werd of the 
(lain: he who ia Lhirety tales if for water, and finds ff 
deeli—aAl der 


Seraphic prea (The), St. Bona- 
ventura, plac Sais Danté among the 
saints of hia ? (1231-1974), 


Seraphic Saint (The), St. Francis 
d'Assisi (1182-1226). 

Of all the milnts, 6t. Freocls wes the mort blameless od 
gente, —Dieo Milman, 


Eeraphina Arthuret (Jfiss), a 
pa,ist. Her sister is Miss Angelica 
Arthuret.—Sir W. Scott, Redyauntlet 
(time, George IIL). 

Bera'pis, an oa Teceility wy iy Be dee sym- 
bolizing te Nile, and fertili 


Seraskier’ (3 sy/.), a name given imate 


Ss 


eh Ae 


we nue, ‘he Serbonian Rog was sur- 
rounded on all sides by hills of loose 
sand, and the sand, carried into it by high 
winds, floated on the surface, and looked 
like a solid mass. Herodotos (Greek 
History, ii. 6) telle us that whole armies, 

ived by the appearance, have been 
engulfed in the bog. (See also Diodo’rus 
Siculus, Bitliotheca Historia, i. 85; and 
Lacan's Pharsalia, viii. 539.) 


Diodorus Siculus (Bibliotheca Historia, 
i. 80) says: ‘‘ Many, missing their way, 
have been swallowed up in this bog, 

with whole armies.” Dr. Smi 
says : Pde sts ea wee wae on ne 
way to » thi was the scene o 
at iat a Leck destruction of the Persian 
army” ( ical Dictionary, art. ‘* Ser- 
bonis Lacus”). 

Sereme’nes (4 sy/.), brother-in-law 
of king Sardanapaélus, to whom he en- 
trusts his signet-ring to put down the 
rebellion headed by Arbacés the Mede 
and Belésis the CUhaldéan soothsayer. 
Seremtnés was slain in a battle with the 
insurgents.— Byron, Surdunapalus (1819). 


Sere'na, allured by the mildness of 
the weather, went into the fields to gather 
wild flowers for a garland, when she was 
attacked by the Blatant Beast, who 
earried her off in its mouth. Her cries 
attracted to the spot sir Calidore, who 
compelled the hanet +. 4--- " 








SERPENT D'ISABIT. 


and walked upon legs and feet.—Masudi, 
Histury, 22 (A.D. 956). 
The Serpent's Punishment. The 
unishmeot of the serpent for tempting 
Fve was thia: (1) Michael was com- 


manded to.cut off its legs; and (2) the | 


serpent was doomed to feed on 
excrements ever after. 


V Land | oe) oe la serpients, » a Michael, agqoel que 
thane ia cijeula de [Maos, 


. y Ww dixo; Aquesta al es 
evlietada, eclala ly pruners del perayeo, y cortale bn 
ett, 7 dl jdnlere Gunlin, ere ke hike po Cle. 

lito 0 Botti, el qual Vind rendu, y dimain; Porque 
tu repro hee engifiedo & aquecion, y low hea hiocho 
little?’ To quero qlee tela imumendicia myn, 7 de 
fhe on hijo, on elicgude de so coer entre por fu 
team. pargue en verdad allo horn penliencla, y to yo 
dara harte dle louucdiico.—oapel af Barvicedeas, 

Serpent d’Isabit, an enormous 
m..nster, whose head rested on the top of 
the Pic du Midi de Bigorre, ita body 
filled the whole valley of Luz, St. 
Sauveur, and Gedres, and ita tail was 
eviled in the bollow below the cirque of 
Gavarnie. It fed once in three months, 
and supplied itself by miaking a very 
étrong inspiration of ita breath, where- 
upon every living thing around was 
drawn into its maw, It was ultimately 
killed by making a huye bonfire, and 
waking it from its torpor, when 1t 
became enraged, and drawing a deep 
breath, drew the bonfire into its maw, 
and died in agony.—Rev. W. Webster, 
A Pyrenean Lejend (1877), 


Serpent Stone. 
Mouod of Mourning was a serpent which 
had a stone on the tail, and “* whoever 
beld this elume in one hand would have 
in the vther as much gold as heart could 
desire.” — The Mabinogion (‘* Peredur,” 
twelfth century). 

Served My God. Wo sry said, in 
his fall, ** Had | but served my God with 
half the zeal | served my king, [le would 
Dit In mine aye have 


bids. met ui. se. 2 (LH0L), 
SAMEKAH, when he was deposed from 
the gevernment of Musorah by the caliph 


Moawiyah, said, “If | had served God | 


su well as | have served the caliph, He 


would never have condemned me to all | 


eternity. 

Axtosxia Perez, the favourite of 
Philip H. of Spain, said, “Mon zele 
elit ai grand vers ces benines puissances 
ji. Juri) qui si j'en eusse eu mutant 
pour Dieu, je ne doubte point qu'il ne 
mi veut deja recompense de gon paradis,” 

The earl of Gownin, when in 1584 be 
wis led ti) execution, said, “If 1 had 
served God os faithfully os | bave done 


891 





In a carn on the | 


left me naked to | 
niine enemies.” — Shakespeare, Jeary | 





SEVEN CHAMPIONS, ETC. 


the king [James VJ,], I should not have 
come to this end."—Spotawood, History 
of tie Church of Scotland, 882, 333 (165). 
Bervice Tree. <A wand of the 
service tree has the power of i 
the virulence of an exhausted poison, 
— Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy Tales 
(‘* Florina,” 1682). | 
Ses‘ame (3 sy/.), the talismanic word 
which would open or shut the door 
leading into the cave of the forty thieves. 
In order to open it, the words to be 
uttered were, ‘*| , Seaamé!" and in 
order to close it, “shut, SesamG!" Sesamé 
is a plant which yields an oily grain, and 
hence, when Cassim forgot the word, he 





| substituted barley, but without effect. 


Mra Habberfield, coming to & small iron grating, ex- 
cha mom words with companions whieh 
d aa much effect as the “* Lip on 
renown.—Lord W, P. Lennoa, Caletrities, atc. 
Opening » handkerchief, in which be had a ample of 
reund, be inqared of ma how mach «a loge mere of 
the graln waa worth, .. I told him that, socording fo tbe 
hare price, & lane menur wae worth one hundred 
riche of diver. . . aod he left the eeu with me — 
drehian Nights |" Toe Christian Merchant's Biory *) 
Sesostris (Zhe Modern), Napoleon 
Bonaparte (1769, 1804-1815, 1821). 
But where ls he, the modern, mightier far, 
Who, born oo king. made monarchs draw his cur: 
Freed from the bit, believe themasives with wings. 
Aod spurn the dust o'er which they crawled af late, 
Chained to the chariot of the ch H's eae 
Byron, Age af Sremee (LET), 
*,” “Sesostris,"in Fénelon's 7Mémaque 
+ a P ? ‘- . » 
is meant for Louis XIV, 


Bet’ebos, a deity of the Patagonians, 
Ale art ls of such power, 
Tt would control my dam's god Betebom, 

ade az Shakespeare, Phe Fompent (1609). 
roared like bulls aad Beas Pane to balp then — 
Eden, Mistery af Trosapla, 

Seth, « servant of the Jew at Ashby, 
Reuben ia his fellow-servant.—Sir W. 
Scott, Jounhoe (time, Richard J.), 


Settle (//tana), the poet, introduced 
by sir W. Scott in Peveril of the Peak 
(time, Charles I.). 


Seven Bodies in Alchemy, The 


| Sun is wold, the Moon silver, Mars iron, 


Mercury quicksilver, Saturn lead, Jupiter 
tin, and Venus copper. 

The belies seven. eek, lo hem heer anoan : 

Bol ped in, and Lone silver we (hrepe ; 

Mars yren, Mercurie quykeilver we clepe; 

Baturros jemi, and Jubiuar is wn, 

And Veww clpor. by my fader kyn. 
Chascer, Custertury Tales (prolague to “ The Chanounes 
Yemanes Tale,” 125e). 
Seven Champions of Chris- 

tendom (Tie): St. George for Eng- 
land; St. Andrew for Scotland; St, 
Patrick for Ireland; 5S David for 








SEVEN SORROWS OF MARY. 


In the Wriental Tales it is Catnier, which 
looks like a clerical blunder for Catmer, 
only it occurs frequently. It is on. of 
the ten animals admitted into Mahomet's 
paradise. The Avurdn tells us that the 
ay followed the seven young men into 
the cave, but they tried to drive him 
away, and even broke three of its legs 
with stones, when the dog said to them, 
‘“*F love those who love God. Sleep, 
masters, and I will keep guard.” In the 
Uriental Tales the dog is made to say, 
‘* You go to seek God, but am not I also 
a child of God?” 
young men were so astounded, they went 
immediately, and carried the dog into 
the cave. 

Lhe Place of Scpulture of the Seven 
Sleepers. Gregory of Tours tells us that 
the bodies were removed from mount 
Celion in a stone coffin to Marseilles. The 
Avrdn with Sale's notes infurms us they 
were buried in the cave, and a chapel was 
built there to mark the site. (See 
SLEEPKR.) 

Lhe Seven Sleepers turning on their sides. 
William of Malmesbury says that Edward 
the Confessor, in his mind's eye, saw the 
seven sleepers turn from their right sides 
to their left, and (he adds) whenever they 
turn on their sides it indicates great 
disasters to Christendom. 

ho ctakaedt 1 T have seen a vision : 
Eile n peg Lieto of Epbesus 
Tennyson, Zereld, |. 1. 

Seven Sorrows of M ( The) : 
{ Simeon's prophecy, (2) the flight into 

ypt, (3) Jesus missed, (4) the betrayal, 
(5) the crucifixion, ®) the taking down 
from the cross, and (7) the ascension. 
Her Seven Joys were: (1) the annuncia- 
tion, (2) the visitation, (3) the nativity, 
(4) the adoration of the Mayi, (5) the pre- 
sentation in the Temple, (6) finding the 
lost Child, and (7) the assumption. 


Seven Times Christ Spoke on 
the Cross: (1) ‘ Father, forgive them ; 
for they know not what they do;" (2) 
“Te day shalt thou be with Me in para- 
dise :" (3) ‘* Woman, bebold thy son!" 
(4) ‘My God, My God, why hast Thou 
forsaken Me?" (5) “1 thirst; (6) 
‘It is tinished!" (7) ‘* Father, into Thy 
hands I commend My spirit.” 


Seven Towers ( //c), a State prison 
In «Nstantineple, near the sea of Mar- 
mora. It stands at the west of the 
Seraslio. 


Det Ub. tl ey never came to the Seven Towers, 
B)roa, Den Juan, v. ley (183 


Hearing this, the | 


893 SEVEN WISE MEN OF GREECE, 


Seven Virtues (Zhe): @) faith, 
(2) hope, (3) charity, (4) prudence, (5) 
ustice, (6) fortitude, and (<) temperance. 
e first three are called ‘‘the holy 
Virtues.” (See Sevex Mortau Sins.) 


Seven Wise Masters. Lucien 
the son of Dolopathos was placed under 
the charge of Virgil, and was tempted in 
fnanhood | by his step-mother. 6 re- 
pelled her advances, and she accused him 
to the king of taking liberties with her. 
By consulting the stars, it was discovered 
that if he could tide overseven dayshis life 
would be spared ; so seven wise masters 
undertook to tell the king a tale each, in 
illustration of rash judgments. When 
they had all told their tales, the prince 
related, under the disguise of a tale, the 
story of the queen’s wantonness; whero- 
upon Lucien was restored to favour, and 
the queen was put to death.—Sandabar, 
Parables (contemporary with king Cou- 


rou). 

ae John Rolland of Dalkeith has 
rendered this legend into Scotch verse, 
There is an Arabic version by Nasr 
Allah (twelfth century), borrowed from 
tho Indian by Trey In re Hebrew 
version by rabbi Joel (1270 legend 
ip called Kaludah and Donnak’ 

Seven Wise Men (7ie). 

One of Plutarch’s brochures in the 


| Moralia is entitled, ‘* The Banquet of the 


Seven Wise Men,” in which Periander is 
made to give an account of a contest at 
Chalcis between Homer and Hesicd, in 
which the latter wins the prize, and re- 
ceives a tripod, on which he caused to be 
engraved this inscription : 

This Hesiod vows to the Heliconian nina, 

In Chalcis won from Homer the divine. 

Seven Wise Men of Greece 
(Zhe), seven Greeks of the sixth century 
B.c., noted for their maxims. 

Bias. His maxim was, ‘‘ Most men are 
bad” (‘‘ There is none that doeth good, no, 
not one,” Psulm xiv. 3): Ub wAdsoet sanoé 
(fl. n.c. 550). 

Ciito. ‘ Sonatas rote 2” Tédor 

y pas,ov Biov (fl. B.C. ° 
Ei eoabie ‘‘ Avoid extremes” (the 
gridea mean): “Apseros uétpow (fi, B.C. 
). 


Perianper. ‘‘ Nothing is impossible 
to industry" (patience and perseverance 
overcome mountains): MeActa 7é way (B.0. 
665-585). : 

Pitticos. ‘‘ Know thy opportunity ” 
(seize pone the forelock): Kawpér yvao®~ 
(B.C. 652-569). 


oma 2 =~ 
. 


—-— 


- =~ wwe 1aat Myson, the Chenian, ought. 


*,* It is Plato who says that Myson 
should take the place of Periander as one 
of the Seven Wise Men. 


Seven Wonders of Wales (The): 

1) Snowdon, (2) Pysty] Rhaiadr water- 

ll, (8) St. Winifred’s well, (4) Overton 
churchyard, (5) Gresford church bells, 
(6) Wrexham steeple (? tower), (7) Lian- 
gollen bridge. 


Seven Wonders of the Peak 
(Derbyshire) : The three caves called the 

vil's Arse, Pool, and Eden ; St. Anne's 
Well, which is similar in character ‘‘ to 
that most dainty spring of Bath ;" Tides- 
well, which ebbs and flows although 80 
far "inland ; Sandy Hill, which never 
increases at the base or abates in heijzht ; 
and the forest of the Peak, which bears 
trees on hard rocks.— Drayton, Polyolbion, 
xxvi. (a full description of each is given, 
1622). 


Seven Wonders of the World 
(The): (1) The pyramids of Egypt, (2) 
the hanying gardens of Babylon, (3) the 
tomb of Mausdlos, (4) the temple of Diana 
at Ephesus, (5) the colossoa of Rhodes, 
(6) the statue of Zeus by Phidiax, (7) 
the pharos of Egypt, or else the palace of 
Cyrus cemented with gold. 


The pyramids first, which im Eq pt were laid; 
Next Bubylon’s garden, for Am) Us inade; 

Then Mausclos's tomb uf affect.on and quilt: 
Fourth, the temple of Dian, in Ephe.us built; 
The celcevce of Rhodes. cant in brass, to the sun; 
Sixth, Jupiter's status. by Phitias done : 

The phares af #---~ 








SEXTUS. 





SGANARELLE. 





man.—Ovid, Metan:orphoses, ix. 12 ; xiv. 
699. 

Sextus (Tarquinius]. There are 
several points of resemblance in the story 
of Sextus and that of Paris son of Priam. 
(1) Paris was the guest of Menelaos 
when he eloped with his wife Helen ; and 
Sextus was the guest of Lucretia when 
he defiled her. 


(2) The elopement of | 


Helen was the cause of a nativnal war | 


between the Greek cities and the allied 
citiea of Troy; and the defilement of 
Lucretia was the cause of a national war 
between Rome and the allied cities under 
Por’sena. (3) The contest between (ircece 
and Troy terminated in the victory of 
Greece, the injured party ; and the con- 
test between Rome and the supporters of 
Tarquin terminated in favour of Rome, 
the injured party. (4) In the Trojan war, 
Paris, the agyressor, showed himself be- 
fore the Trojan ranks, and defied the 
bravest of the Greeks to single combat, 
but when Menelaos appeared, he took to 
flight ; so Sextus rode vauntingly against 
the Roman host, but when Herminius 
appeared, tled to the rear like a coward. 
(>) In the ‘Trojan contest, Priam and his 
sons fell in battle; and in the battle of the 
lake Keyillus, Tarquin and his sons were 
slain. 

*,* Lord Macaulay has taken the 
“Battle of the Lake Regillus” as the 
subject of one of his Luys of Ancient 
Jiume. Another of his lays, called 
‘* }loratius,” is the attempt of Porséna 
to re-establish Targuin on the throne. 


Seyd, pacha of the Morea, assassinated 
by Gulnare (2 sy/.) his faveurite con- 
cubine. Gulnare was rescued from the 
burning harem by Conrad ‘the corsair.” 
Conrad, in the disguise of a dervise, was 
detected and seized in the palace of Seyd, 
and Gulnare, to effect hia liberation, mur- 
dered the pacha.—Byron, Zhe 
(1814). 


Seyton (urd), a supporter of queen 
Mary's cause. 

Cutherine Seyton, daughter of lord 
Seyton, a maid of honour in the court 
of queen Mary. She appears at Kinross 
villaye in disyuise. 

Hicnry Scytun, son of lord Seyton.— 
Sir W. Scott, Zhe Abbué (time, Eliza- 
Beth). 

Sforza, of Lombardy. He with his 
two brothers (Achilles and Palamédés, 
Were in the syuadron of adventurers in the 
allied Christian army.—Tasso, Jcruzalem 
elswered (1575). 


Corsair 


*,* The word Sforza means ‘ force,” 
and, according to tradition, was derived 
thus: Giacomuzzo Attendolo, the son of a 
day labourer, being desirous of going to the 
wars, consulted his hatchet, resolving to 
enlist if it stuck fast in the tree at which 
he flung it. He threw it with such force 
that the whole blade was completely 
buried in the trunk (fifteenth century). 


Sforza (Ludov'icv), duke of Milan, sur- 
named ‘‘the More,” from mora, ‘‘a mul- 
berry ” (because he had on his arm a birth- 
atain of a mulberry colour), Ludovico was 
dotingly fond of his bride Marcelia, and 
his love was amply returned ; but during 
his abse ice in the camp, he left Francesco 
lord protector, and Francesco assailed the 
fidelity of the young duchess. Failing in 
his villainy, he accused her to the duke of 
playing the wanton with him, and the 
duke, in a fit of jealousy, slew her. 
Sforza was afterwards poisoned by 
Eugenia (sister of Francesco) whom he 
had seduced. 

Vina Sforza, the duke’s daughter — 
Massinger, Zhe Duke of Milan (1622). 

*,* This tragedy is obviously an imita- 
tion of Shakespeare's Othellv (1611). 


Sganarelle, the ‘‘cocu imaginaire,” 
a comedy by Molitre (1660). The plot 
runs thus: Célie was betrothed to Lélie, 
but her father, Gorgibus, insisted on her 
marrying Valere, use he was the 
richer map. Cvclie fainted on hearing this, 
and dropped her lover's miniature, which 
was picked up by Syanarelle's wife. 
Sganarelle, thinking it to be the portrait of 
8 yallant, took possession of it, and Lelie 
asked him how he came by it. Sganarelle 
said he tovk it from his wife, and Lélie 
supposed that Celie had become the wife 
of Syanarelle. A series of misapprehen- 
sions arose thence: Celie supposed that 
lwlie had deserted her fur Madame 
Sganarelle ; Syanarelle supposed that his 
wife was unfaithful to hin: madame 
supposed that her husband was an adorer 
of Célie; and Lelie supposed that Celie 
was the wife of Syanarelle. In time they 
met together, when Lelie charged Célie 
with being married to Syanarelle ; both 
stared, an explanation followed, a mes- 
senger arrived to say that Valere was 
ene and all went merry as a marriage 


Syanarelle, younger brother of Ariste 
(2 syl.); a surly, domineering brute, wise 
in his own conceit, and the dupe of the 
play. js brother says to him, “tous 
vos procédés inspire un air bizarre, et, 


euw giving his signature to her marria, 
with Valeve. : 
Maltheureuz qui se fle 4 fernme a cola ! 
La meilleure est toujours en malice fecunde ; 
Cest un sexe engendré pour damner tout le monde. 
Je renounce & jamais d ce sexe trompeur, 
Be je le donne tout au diahle de bon ccrur. 
Molitre, L’éeole des Maris (1061). 


Sjanarelle (8 syl.). At about 63 yean 
of age, Sganarelie wished to marry Dori- 
méne (8 sy/.) daughter of Alcantor, a girl 
fond of parties of piesaire. and 
all the active enjoyments of young life. 
Feeling some doubts about the wisdom of 
this step, he first consults a friend, who 
disauades him, but, seeing the advice is re- 
jected, replies, ‘‘ Do as you like.” He next 
consults two philosophers, but they are 
so absorbed in their philosophy that they 
pay noattentiontohim. He then asks the 
gipeies, who take his money and decamp 
th a dance. At length, he overhears 
Dorimene telling a young lover that she 
only marries the old dotard for his money, 
that he cannot live above a few 
months; so he makes up his mind to 
decline the marriage. The father of the 
pase the matter in his son's hands, 
fire-eater, armed with two 
swords, goes at once to the old fiance, and 
begs him to choose one. When Sganarelle 
declines to fight, the young man beats him 
soundly, and again bids him choose a 
sword. After two or three good beatings, 
Sganarelle consents to the marriage 
** foreé."—Moliere, Le Mariajye Forced 
(1664). 
(There in a e~---"- 





SGANARELLE, 


briefly stated thus: 

Cabricias arci thuram, catalamus, singulariter, no- 
minativoe, bsec muta, bs muse, bonus, bona, bonum. 
ee sanctus, estne oratio Latinas? etiam, oud, quare? 

bees ast quis substantive et | tivum in 
generl, numerum, et casus.” onderful man!” says 
the father.—Act iL 

Syan'arelle (3 syl.), valet to don Juan. 
He remonstrates with his master on his 
evil ways, but is forbidden sternly to 
repeat his impertinent admonitions. His 
praise of tobacco, or rather snuff, is some- 
what amusing. 


Tabac est la pasion des honnétes gens; et qui vit sans 
tabac n'est pas digne de vivre. Non sruleruent Ul réjouit 
et purge les cerveaux hurains, mais encore Ll iustruft les 
ares & la vertu, et l'o. a -prend avec hui 4 devenir boune‘e 
bomme .. . 
@eux qui en prennent.--Molitre, Don Juan, 1. 1 (1685). 


8. G. O., the initials of the Rev. lord 
Sidney Godolphin Osborne, of the family 
of the duke of Leeds; letters in the Zunes 
on social and philanthropic subjects. 


Shaccabac, in Blue Beard. 
SCHACABAC.) 

I have seen strange sights. [ have spen Wilkinson play 
** Macheth ; ~ Mathews, "* Othello ;~ Wrench, , George 
Barnwell ; Buckstone, Rayner, oo prires 
dock," Keeley,“ Shylock ;7 ** Romeo “ and * 
tavinn:” G. PF. Cooke, 
° a Edmund Kean, clown in a pantomime ; 
end C. Young, " Shaccabac.”— Aesord af asians. Feteran. 

‘“Macbeth,” ‘Othello.” “Tago” (in 
Othello), “ Shylock" (Merchant of Venice), 
**Romeo" and “Mercutio” (in Romeo 
and Juliet), all by Shakespeare; ‘‘ 
Barnwell” (Lillo’s ie rts 80 called) : 
‘** Penruddock ” (in The t of Fortune, 
by Cumberland); ‘ Octavian” (in Col- 
man’s drama 80 ‘called) ; ; ‘‘ Archer” (in 
Lhe Beuus’ Stratagem, by Farquhar). 


Shaddai (Ainy), who made war upon 
Tiabolus for the regaining. of Mansoul.— 
John Bunyan, The Holy War (1682). 


Shade (To fight im the). Dieneces 
(1A. en’.e.seez], the Spartan, being told 
that the army of the Persians was so 
numerous that their arrows would shut out 
the sun, replied, ‘‘ Thank the gods! we 
shall then fight in the shade.” 


Shadow (Simon), one of the recruits 
of the army of sir John Falstaff. “A 
half-faced fellow,” so thin that sir John 
said, ‘‘a foeman might as well level his 
run at the edge of a penknife” as at 
such a starveliny.—Shakespeare, 2 Henry 
JV. act iii. se. 2 (1598). 


(See 


* lago; 7 
Liston, 


Shadrach, Meshach,and Abed- | 


nego were cast, by the command of 
Nebuchadnezzar, intu a fiery furnace, 
but received no injury, although the 
furnace was made so hot that the heat 





U insple tes sentiments d’honneur & tous 


** Mercutlo ; ” Joba Sombie, | 








897 SHAH. 


says Sganarelle, ‘‘for the case may be | thereof “slew those men” that took 





them to the furnace.— Dan. iii. 22. 

By Nimrod’s ‘order, Abraham was 
bound and cast into a huge fire at Catha; 
but he was preserved from inj a Mat the 
angel Gabriel, and only the co 
bound him were burmt. Yet so Alpi 
was the heat that above 2000 men were 
consumed thereby.—See t of Bar- 
tn Bosna XXViili. ; ane rh ahometan- 

i, 4 


Sais aiid Am'be-Abad’, 
the abodes of the peris. . 


Shadwell (Thomas), the poet-lau- 
reate, was a great drunkard, and was said 
to be “round as a butt, "and liquored 
rae chink ” (1640-1692). 
Besides, hie ateaed eg onal aj 
tess majesty 
MacFlecknes (1683). 
*,* Shadwell Gere opium, and died 
from taking too large a dose. Hence 
Pope says: 
tious still to blockheads. bows ; 


Benlowes, prop! 
And Shadwell nods the poppy on bis brows. 
The Dunciad, iii Zi, 23 (1798). 


(Benlowes was a great patron of bad 


| poets, and many have dedicated to him 


their lucubrations. Sometimes the name 
is shifted into ‘‘ Benevolus.”) 


Shadvell (Wapp 
ruption of St. C 


Shaf'alus and Pier ia So Bot- 
tom the weaver calls Ceph&lus and Prvo- 
cris. (See CEPHAL.US.) 

Pyramus. Se ea are Van 0.08 
Thisbe. As Shafalus to Procrus; I to you. 
Shakespeare, Midsurnmer Wighi's Dreum (1502). 

Shaftesbury (Anthony Ashley Cooper, 
earl of), introduced by sir W. Scott in 
Peveril of the Peak (time, Charles 1I.). 


Shafton (Ned), one of the prisoners 
in Newgate with old sir Hildebrand 
Osbaldistune.—Sir W. Scott, Rob Roy 
(time, George I.). 


Shafton (Sir Piercie), called ‘The 
knight of Wilverton,” a fashionable 


ping ware a cor- 


_ cavaliero, grandson of old Overstitch the 
tailor, of Holderness. Sir Piercie talks 


in the pedantic style of the Elizabethan 
courtiers.—Sir W. Scott, The Munastery 
(time, Elizabeth). 


Juhnson’s specch, like air Piercie Shaften's eupbeistes 
ae bewrajed him under every dinguiss.—Lorg 


Shah (The), a famous diamond, 
weighing 86 carats. It was given by 
Chosrots of Persia te the czar of Russia. 
(See Diamoxpvs.) 

8 uw 








SHAKESPEARE OF DIVINES. 





SHANDY. 





1546). Two daughters, who survived 
him, Susanna, and Judith twin-born with 
Hamnet. Both his daughters married 
and bad children, but the lines died out. 
Folfuire says of Shakespeare; “ Rimer 
had very geod reason to say that Shake- 
epeare welt yw cilaia singe.” Voltaire, 
in 1765, said, ‘Shakespeare is a savaye 
with some imagination, whose plays can 
lease only in London and Canada.” 
i 1735 he wrote to M. de Cideville, 
Shakespeare is the Corneille of London, 
but evervwhere else he is a great fool 
(grand fu d’uilfeur)." 


Bhakesveare of Divines (Tie), 
Jeremy Taylor (iolb-1667), 

His | Paplor's| devothmal writings anly want what they 
faniet be mid tu feed, the nome onc] the oietrical 
rangement tu make Lhem posiry.—Acher. 


Taylor, the Shakespeare of divine: —Emerson. 


Shakespeare of Elcoquence| Thr). 
The comte de Mirabeau was so called by 
Jiarnave (1749-1791), 


Shakespeare of Germany [ 7i/«), | 


Auzustus Frederick Ferdinand von hot- 
ecbue (1761-1819), 


Shakespeare of Prose Fiction 
(Jie). Hichardson the novelist is go 
called by 1 Tsraeli (1689-1761). 

Shallow, a weak-minded country 
on ciusio to Slender. Ile is a great 
ragyart, und especially fond cf boasting 


of the mad pranks of his vounger days. | 


Jt 13 said that justwe Shallow is o 
Bitirical portrait of sir Thomas Lucy of 
(harlecote, who prosecuted Shakespeare 
fer deer-stealing. — Shakespeare, Je 
Merry Wiees of Windsor (1596); and 2 
Neary JV. (158). 

hs wise a oe justire of the quorum eed costalorem in 
Blialh ws Unor. —Miecmalag . 

Shallum, lord of a manor consisting 
of a lung chain of rocks and mountains 
called ‘lirzah. Shallum was “‘of pentle 
disposition, and beloved) beth by God and 
nian. 
i hinese antediluvian pnncess, one of the 
lit) daughters of Zilpah, of the race of 
Cohu or Cain.—Addison, Spectutur, vill. 
B1-5 (1712), 

Bhalott (Zhe lady of), a poem by 
Tenoveon, in four parts. It. i. tella us 
that the lady passed ber life in the island 
of Shalott im great seclusion, and was 
known only by the peasantry, Pt. il. 
tells us that she was weaving a magic 
web, and that a curse would fall on her 
if she lovked dwwn the mver. Pt. iii. 
describes how sir Lancelot rode tu Came- 


Hle was the lover of Hilpa, a | 





lot in all his bravery; and the lady 
gazed at him as he rode along. Pt. iv. 
tells us that the lady floated down the’ 
river in a boat called The Lady of Shalott, 
and died heart-broken on the way. Sir 
Lancelot came to gaze on the d body, 
and exclaimed, ‘*She has a lovely face, 
and may God have mercy on her!" This 
ballad was afterwarils expanded into the 
Jdyli called “* Elaine, the Fair Maid of 
Astolat™ (q.t.), the beautiful incidént 
of Elaine and the barye being taken from 
the Mistory of f’rince Arthur, by sir T. 
Malory : 

“While my body is whole, tet this letter be put ‘ta 
my fright harml, mul my hand bemood [nai wiih the 
letier wail) | te eold, wad bet oo c 
lot my bed ond al my rch chithes be in 
Chuirkt to Ue next ples wheres the Thames anal, 
there lef ine be pat io om barge, ane bol 
oo, mich om yo trod io steer me thither, and tet my 
nie be covered with black amit over and oper,” .. . 
fo when ahe waa dead, the corper aoe! ihe bel oral all 
was led the weed way unio the Thames, aml there a nam 
and the corp gud all were put in o berge on Ue 

4, gia so the tan wteerel the large to Wet 


i 
E 


ilistoer, and there be towed a great while to ona fro, or 
any tian cqded —Pt li, 

King Arthur saw the body and had it 
buried, and sir |auncelut made an offer- 
ing, ete. (ch. 124); much the same as 
Tennyson has reproduced it in verse, 


Shambo'gai (4 sy/.), the angel who 
debauched himself with women, re- 
pented, and hung himself up between 
earth and heaven, —ereshit rabbi (in 
dren. vi. 2). 

*,* Harit and Marit were two angels 
sent to be jodges on earth. They jadged 
righteously till Zohara appeared before 
them, when they fell in love with her, 
and were imprmsuned in a cave near 
Babylon, where they are to abide till the 
day of judgment. 


Shandy ( Tristram), the nominal hero 
of Sterne’s novel culled Zhe Life ana 
Ujnnions of Jristrum Shandy, Gentleman 
(vot). dle ia the son of Walter and 
Slizabeth Shandy. 

Cuptuin Shandy, better known as 
**Unele Toby," the real hero of Sterne’'s 
novel, Captain Shandy was wounded 
at Namur, and retired on half-pay. He 
was benevulent and generous, brave as s 
lion but simple as a child, most gallant 
and most modest. Ilazlitt says that 
“the character of uncle Toby is the finest 
compliment ever paid to human uature."” 
His modest love-jassayes with Widow 
Wadman, his kindly sympathy for 


| lieutenant Lefevre, and his military dis- 


cussions, are wholly unrivalled. 
Aunt Dinah [ Shandy), Walter Shands"s 





—. 


SHEBA., $01 











and tested his wisdom by sundry ques- 
tions, but afirmed that his wisdom and 
wealth exceeded even her ex pectations.— 
Ll Amys x.; 2 Chron, ix. 


ha, ot fo arwrer, Inada, all) those hard things 
Thal hele cui to dal of Rolin. 
Tennyson, The Prince, IL. 


*," The Arabs call ber name Balkis or 
Helkis; the Abyssinians, Macqueda ; and 
olhera, Awzia. 


Set (Che yucen of), & name given to 
Mie. Montreville (te Hezum Mootee 
Mahuli.—Sie W. Scott, 7he Suryeun’s 
Hawhler (time, George I1,). 


Shebdizg, the I'ersian Bucephalos, the 
favounte eharger of Chosrofés I]. or 
Khogrou l-arvis of Persia (490-628), 


Shedad, king of Ad, who built a 
moss magnificent palace, and laid out a 
garien valled “The Garden of Trem," 
like “‘the bowers of Eden.” <All men 
aulmired this polace and parden except 
the prophet Heud, whe tald the king that 
the fuunidation of his julace was not 
secure. And ay it was, that God, to 
punieh his prule, first sent a drought of 
tliree VeRrs Hurntion, and then the 
Sarsar or icy wind for seven days, in 
which the garden was destroved, tho 
jiluce ruined, and Shedad, with all bis 
sli lijeets, died, 

It is said that the palace of Shedad or 
Shuddaud took 500 vears in building, 
anil when it was finished the angel of 
death would not allow him even to enter 
his cinien, but struck him dead, and the 
nse parden of Irem was ever after ip- 
visible to the eve of man.—Southey, 
Thaluba the Destroyer, i. (1797). 


Sheep (/.0rd /untam's). These sheep 
had tails of such eoormous Jength that 
his lordehip bad po-carts harnessed to the 
sheep for carrying their tails, 


There ges Mra vappalalenil, the ruther's wife .. « 
Chdb ike fae how ale tmakilied elon BIL lier iran Owe 
pords ietiigod bier? Fle pede nie li tiie of Lard Bantem's 


Gierqe- te chbnih, Pee ew, i i ek 
“herp (The Cotswetdl). 
Bo beeen, nor millind blerk, the face of loge doth 


wires k, a 
{a a hind, whose lrwwe fo wrenlly ha, 
Aa forts lig heer fale ele) fh oy pelle Sica] Ge. so 
A leoly bing cool large, the lolbe ke epee) bron . , . 
Ajel if the fee far, ihe flank dol mat hing lack, 
Bait ewer) where be etacreel, the belly on Le berk 
Ireyian, Polpolbdem, aie. (G12). 


Sheep-Dog (A), 4 lady-companion, 
whe deenpits the back seat of the ba- 
roche, cares Wrps, etc,, cies to church 
with the Incl ~ ml **vuarnds ber from the 
wolves,” as much a« the lady wishes Lo 
be yruarded, Lut po more, 








SHEFFIELD. 
Daath ablan a coral shepherd's dons”. wo boty 
** A sheep-dog, a ary Pre so 





Ser Waits wits a ubees-dont. lon that good 
Thackerny, Famity Pade, xxxvil (1848), 

Sheep of the Addanc Valley. 
In this valley, which led to the cave of 
the Addanc, were two flocks of sheep, one 
white and the other black. When any 
one of the black sheep bleated, a white 
sheep crossed over and became black, 
and when one of the white sheep bleated, 
u llavk sheep crossed over and became 
white. — The Sfubinogion (‘ Peredur,” 
twelfth century). 


Sheep of the Prisons, a cant term 
in the Prench Revolution for a spy under 
the jnilers.—C. Dickens, A Tale of Twe 
Cities, til. 7 (1859). 


Sheep Tilted at. Don Quixote 
saw the duet of two flocks of sheep coming 
in opposite directions, and told Sancho 
they were two armies—one commanded 
Lv the emperor Alifanfaron sovereign of 
the island of Trap’oban, and the other by 
the king of the Garaman’teans, called 
*Tentap'olin with the Naked Arm.” 
Ile sail that Alifanfaron was in love 
with [entapolin’s daughter, but Penta- 
polin refused to sanction the alliance, 
because Alifanfaron was a Mohammedan. 
The mad knight rushed on the flock ‘led 
bw Alifanfaron,” and killed seven of the 
shecp, Lut was stunned by stones thrown 
at him by the shepherds. When Sancho 
told his master that the two armies were 
eniv two flocks of sheep, the knight 
replied that the enchanter Freston had 
‘metamorphosed the two grand arnnies ” 
in order to show his malice.—Cervantes, 
thon Qucrote, I. iit. 4 (1605). 

*_* After the death of Achillés, Ajax 
and Ulysses both claimed the armour of 
Ilector, ‘The dispute was settled by the 
sons of Atreus (2 syl.), who awarded 
the prize to Ulysses. This so en 
Ajax that it drove him mad, and he fell 
ujwin a flock of sheep driven at night into 
Lhe camp, supposing it to be an army led 
by Ulysses and the sons of Atreus, 
When he found out his mistake, he 
stabbed himself. This is the aubject of 
. t apne y by Soph’oclés called Ajas 
Mad. 

*." Orlando in his madness also fell 
foul of w tlock of sheep.—Ariosto, Ure 
lundo J’'wrwey (1516). 


Sheffleld (The Bard of), James 
Montgomery, author of The Wanderer of 
Swileerland, ete. (1771-1854). 





SHEPHERD LORD. 908 





(n.c. 1870-1851); (2) Brow, called by 
the Arabs Er-Reiyan, son of El-Weleed 
(n.c. 1851-1811); (3) APACHNAS (B.C. 
IX11-1750) ; (4) ApPOpHis, called by the 
Arabs Er-Reiyan II., in whose reign 
Joreph was sold into Egypt and was 
made viceroy (n.c. 1750-1700) ; (5) Ja- 
NIAS (B.C. 1700-1651); (6) AssETH 
(1651-1610). The Hyksos were driven 
out of Egypt by Amdsis or Thethmosis, 
the founder of the eighteenth dynasty, 
and retired to Palestine, where they 
formed the chiefs or lords of the Philis- 
tines. (Hyksos is compounded of hyd, 
‘*king,” and sas, ‘ shepherd.”) 

*,*° Apophis or Aphophis was not a 
shepherd-king, but a pharaoh or native 
ruler, who made Apachnas tributary, and 
succeeded him, but on the death of 
Aphophis the hyksos were restored. 


Shepherd Lord (Thc), lord Henry 
de Clifford, brought up by his mother as 
a shepherd to save him from the ven- 
geance of the Yorkists. Henry VII. 
restored him to his birthright and estates 
(1450-1543). 


The gracious fairy, 
Who loved the shepherd lord to mest 
In his wanderings sulitary. 
Wordsworth, The White Doe ef Bylatene (1815). 
Shepherd of Banbury. (See 


SUKPHERD, JOHN CLARIDGE.) 


Shepherd of Filida. 

** Proservebim. Mr. Nicholas, as thou wouldst a diamond. 
He is not a shepherd, but an t courtier,” eid the 
curé —Cervantes, Don Quizote, I. [. 6 (1605). 

Shepherd of Salisbury Plain 
(Ze), the hero and title of a religious 
tract by Hannah More. The shepherd is 
noted for his homely wisdom ard simple 
ety. The academy figure of this shep- 
Prerd was David Saunders, who, with his 
father, had kept sheep on the plain fora 
century. 


Shepherd of the Ocean. SoColin 


Clout (Spenser) calls sir Walter Raleigh 
in his Colin Cluut’s Come Hume Ayain 
(1591). 


Shepherdess (The Faithful), a pas- 
toral drama by John Fletcher (1610). 
The ‘faithful shepherdess" is Corin, 
who remains faithful to her lover although 
dead. Milton has borrowed rather largely 
from this pastoral in his Comus. 


Sheppard (Jack), immortalized for 
his burzlarics and escapes from Newgate. 
He was the son of a carpenter in Spital- 
fields, and was an ardent, reckless, and 
generous youth. Certainly the most 





| GOLD oF 





| Rateliffe’s father rescu 





SHEVA. 


popular criminal ever led to Tyburn for 
execution Ce a Anaeaee oo 

*.* Daniel foe made 
the hero of a romance in 1724, ee 
Ainsworth in 1839. 


Sherborne, in Dorsetshire, always 
brings ill luck to the possessor. It be- 
longed at one time to the see of Canter- 





_ bury, and Osmund pronounced a curse 
on any layman who wrested it from the 


Church. 

The first layman who held these lands 
was the protector Somerset, who was be- 
headed by Edward VI. 

The next layman was sir Walter 
Raleigh, who was also beheaded. 

At the death of Raleigh, James I. seized 
op the lands and conferred them on Car 
earl of Somerset, who died prematurely. 
His younger son Carew was attainted, 
committed to the Tower, and lost his 
estates by forfeiture. 

*,* James I. was no exception. He 
lost his eldest son the prince of Wales, 
Charles I. was beheaded, James IJ. was 
forced to abdicate, and the two Pretenders 
consummated the ill luck of the family. 

Sherborne is now in the possession of 
Digby earl of Bristol. 

(For other possessions which carry with 
them ill luck, sce Gotp or Totosa, 
NIBELUNGEN, GRAYSTKEL, 
Harmonia’s NECKLACE, etc.) 


Sheva, the philanthropic Jew, most 
modest but most benevolent. He ‘‘ stints 
his appetite to pamper his affections, and 
lives in poverty that the poor may live in 
plenty.” Sheva is ‘‘ the widows’ friend, 
the orphans’ father, the poor man’s pro- 
tector, and the universal dispenser of 
charity, but he ever shrank to let his left 
hand know what his right band did.” 
him at Cadiz 
from an auto da fe, and Ratcliffe himself 


_ rescued him from a howling London mob. 


This noble heart settled £10,000 on Miss 
Ratcliffe at her marriage, and left Charles 
the heir of all-his property.—Cumberiand, 
The Jew (1776). 

*,” The Jews of England made up a 
very handsome purse, which they pre- 
sented to the dramatist for this champion- 
ship of their race. 


Shera, in the satire of Absalom and 
Achitophel, by Dryden and Tate, is de- 
sizned for sir Roger Lestrange, censor of 
the press in the reign of Charlies ‘I. 
Sheva was one of David's scribes (2 Sam. 
xx. 25), and sir Roger was editor of the 

tor, in which he vindicated the 


-—— 








a 


ols 


wet ~~ (Judges xii. 1-6). 

In the Sicilian Vespers, a word w: 

iven as a test of nationality. Som 

ried peas (ciceri) were shown to a sus 
pect: if he called them cheecharce, he wa 
a Sicilian, and alluwed to pass; but i 
siseri, he was a Frenchman, and was pu 
to death. 

In the great Danish slaughter on St. 
Bryce’s Day (November 18), 1002, accord- 
ing to ition, a similar test was made 
which, being pronounced hard or soft, 

; pronou. or 
decided whether the speaker were Dane 
or Saxon. 


Shield. When a hero fell in fight, 
his shields left at home used to become 
bloody.—Gaelic Legendary Lore. 

The mother of Calmin remains in the hall... . His 
shield fe bloody In the bal.“ Art thou fallen, my fair 
haired son, in a diemal war ?°—-Omian, Temera, v. 

Shield (Point of a). When a flag em- 
blazoned with a shield had the point 
upwards, it denoted peace; and when a 
combatant approached with his shield 
reversed, it meant the same thing in 
medisval times. 

‘ay tae n caiehd ited ap crave the Ge cl Orta eee 
the point of the shield was upwards, in token of peace. — 
The Mabinegion (‘* Branwen,” ote., twelfth century). 

Shield (Striking the). When a leader 
was penta to take the command of 
an army, and the choice was doubtful, 
those who were the most eligible went to 
some distant hill, and he who struck his 
shield the loudest was chneen lo-2-- 





SHIP. 





Ship. 


The master takes the “ship uut, 
bat thers mate bri injs Aer home, The reason 


is this; On the first night of an outward 
passage, the starboard watch takes the 
first four hours on deck, but in the home- 
ward passage the port watch, Now, the 
‘starboard watch” ia also called the 
master’s or captain's watch, because when 
there was only one mate, the master had 
to take his own watch (i.¢. the starboard), 
The ‘* port watch” is commanded by the 
first ninte, and when there was only one, 
he had to stand to hia own watch. 

*.* When there are two mates, the 
second mate takes the starboard watch. 


Ship (The Intelligent). 


it; hence in the Fritijof Saga the son of 


Thorsten constantly addresses it, and the — 


ship always obeys what is said to it.— 
Teynér, Frithjof “Saya, x. (1825), 


Ship-Shape. A vessel sent to sea 
before it is completed is called “‘ jury- 
shaped" of “ jury-rigged,” 
the nwnce (uur=y, ‘pro tempora”); while 
at sea, ale is completed, pie when all the 
temporary tinkeshifts have been changed 
fi ir the proper riygings, the veasel is called 

“ ship-shape.” 


Having bern seot fi see in hurry, they were Ibis 


better than jury-riggei, and we are now belng pul Into 
oip-ehape.—Jksdly Vrww, August £1, Lard. 

Ship of the Desert, the camel or 
dromedary employed in “ voyages" 
through the sand-seas of the African 
descrta, 


Jet me hare the lo 
aod patient rwiftness of 1 the desert-shilp, 
Tia helmles dromedary. 


Byroo, Pie Deformed Fraongformed, L 1 (1A). 

Shipton (Mother), the heroine of an 
ancient tule entitled The Strunye and 
Winderfil History and Prophecies of 
Mother Shipton, ete.—T. Evan lreece, 


Shipwreck (Jir), a poem in three 
cantoa, bv William Faleoner (1762). 
Suppused to occupy six days. The ship 
wae the &rifunmea, under the command 
of Albert, and bound for Venice. Be.og 
overtaken in o sjuall, she is driven out of 


her course from Candia, and four seamen | 


are lost off the lee main-yardarm., <A 
fearful storm preatly distresses the Vessel, 
anil the captain pives command ' to bear 
awn.’ As she posses the island of St, 
George, the helmsman ia struck blind 
by lightning. Lowsprit, foremast, and 


Hiain-topminst being carried away, the | 


oficers try to save themselves on the 
wreck of the foremaat. The ship splits 
on the projecting verge of cape Colonna, 


Ellida (Frith- | 
jofs ship) understood what was said to | 


i.e. rigged for | 


| weddings, 





SHOE THE MOCKISH MARE, 





The captain and all his crew are lost 
except Arion (Falconer), who is washed 
ashore, and being befriended by the 
natives, returns to England to thia 
mournful story. 


Bhoe, The right shoe first. It was by 
the Romans thought unlucky to put on 
the left shoe first, or to put the shoe 
on the wrong foot. St. Foix says of 
Augustus; 


Cet empereur, qui groverna aver tant de mgese, of 
dont ke roene fot 4 floriseant, revtolt es et — 
germ lorequ’ 0 iol errivelt par 
souller droll na pled gauche, 0 ba 


drt 

Shoe Pinches. We all know where 
the shoe pinches, we each of us know our 
own ha Se troubles. 


Forpingt Hark thoemaker, thes showy 
sey tH — men 


‘Shae ber. My lord, | think they At pou very well, 
ford Fom They bort me jos below the instep. 
Soren, No, my lord, they dow't hort you thers, 
Lord Pop } tell thee they ploch me eoncradly, 
Sheen Why, ben 
Pe Fou, What! Witt thou persuade me I cannot 
fhorm Your lonlahip may plese to feel wha 
think @t, bet that shee doe not hurt you. Yu aie I 
aeicoe my trade, —Sheridan, A frip te gh, 
(livT) 


Shoe in Weddings. In English 
slippers and old shoes are 
thrown at the bride when she leaves the 
house of her parents, to indicate that she 
has left the house for good. 

Luther, being af a wevkling, tok) the bridegroom he had 


| Placed the haha’) ahoe on the head af the bed, “afin 


qa’ prtt alnal fe domination ef ke goovernemroL”— 
Michelet, Life oF Liather | LEAS), 


In Turkish weddings, as soon as the 


prayers are over, the bridegroom makes 


off as fast as possible, followed by the 
guests, who pelt him with old shoea, 
These blows represent the adieux of the 
young man,—TAirty Years in the /aram, 
Bai). 

In Anglo-Saxon marriages, the father 
delivered the bride's shoe to the bride 
groom, and the bridegroom touched the 
ride on the head with it, to show his 
authority.—Chambers, Juurnal, June, 
18/0. 

Shoe the Gray Goose, to under- 
take a difficult and profitiess business, 
John Skelton says the attompt of the 
laity to reform the clergy of his time ia 
about a8 mad a scheme og if they ate 
tempted to shoe wild geese. 

What hath laymen to doe, The gray gree to choet 

4. Shelton, Oops Cloud (1400-LESD), 

*,* “To shoe the goose " is sometimes 

as the synonym of being tipsy. 


- hoe the Mockish Mare, shos 
the wild mare, similar to ‘‘belling the 


ane ie 


wi ound-man‘’sbuife, and of the care 
That young men have to shooe the mare. 


‘STo shoe the colt” means to exact ; 
fine called “‘ footing " from a new associat: 
or colt. The French say, Ferrer la mule 


Shoes (He haschanjed his), ‘‘ mutavi' 
ex.ctos," that is, he has become a 
senator, or has been made a peer. The 
Roman senators wore black shoes, or 
rather black buskins, reaching to the 
middle of the e leg, with the letter C in 
silver on the inste tep. 

(For several other customs and su 
stitions connected with shoes, see pr joe 
twnary of Phrase and Fable, 815-6.) 


Shonou (Zhe Reign of), the most 
remote period, historic or pre-historical. 

Let ap fret learn te know what i Delonge to cureeiven 
srenion of the mre aprerned 3.0 "Nelsen af the 
Wertd, brxv. (1/50). 

Shoo-King (The), the history of the 
Chinese monarchs, by Confucius. It 


begins with Yoo, B.c. 2205. 


Shoolbred (Dame), the foster- 
mother of Henry Smith.—Sir W. Scott, 
Fuir Maid of Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Shore (Jane) § the heroine and title of 

a tragedy by N. Rowe (1713). Jane 
Shore was the wife of a London merchant, 
but left her husband to become the mis- 
tress of Edward IV. At the dcath of 
that monarch, lord Hastings wished to 
obtain her, but she rejected his advances. 
This drew on her the jealous wrath of 
Alicia (lord Hastinqe'’s ~-:-+-- 





° ene 


SHOVEL-BOARDS. 


907 





SIBYLLA. 





Which then the wizard takes, and gazing thereupon, 
Thingy loag to come fureshows ... Scapes secretly at 
Murthers, adulterous stealths, as the events of war, 
The reigns aud deaths of kings, . . . etc. 
Drayton, Polyo/bion, v. (1618). 

Shovel-Boards or kdirard Shovel- 
Buards, broad shillings of Edward III. 
Taylor, the water-poet, tells us ‘‘ they 
were used for the most part at shoave- 


hoard.” 
. . . the anthrift every day, 
With my face downwards do at shoave- play. 
Taylor, the water-poot (1580-1654). 
Shrewsbury (Lord), the earl mar- 
shall in the court of queen Elizabeth.— 
Sir W. Scott, Aendworth (time, Eliza- 
beth). 


Shropshire Toast (The), ‘‘To all 
friends round the Wrekin.” 


Shufflebottom (Abel), a name as- 
sumed by Kobert Southey in some of his 
ainatory productions (1774-1843). 


Shuffieton (The Hon. Tom), a man 
of very slender estate, who borrows of all 
who will jend, but alwavs forgets to 
repay or return the loans. When spoken 
to about it, he interrupts the speaker 
before he comes to the point, and diverts 
the conversation to some other subject. 
He is one of the new school, always 
emotionless, looks on money as the 
summuin bunum, and all as fair that puts 
money in his purse. The Hon. Tom 
Shuffeton marries lady Caroline Bray- 
more, who has £4000 a year. (See 
DiMANCHE.)—G. Colman, junior, JoAn 
Bull. 

** Who is this—all boots and breeches, 


With affectation, spleen, and vapuurs?” 

Oh, Mr. Richard Jones, your bumble——” 

** Prithee give o'er to muuthe and mumble; 

Stand still, speak plain, an’ Jet us bear 

What was Intended for the sar. 

1 faith, without the Umely aid 

Of bulls, no part you ever played 

(Hoh, Handy, Shuffleton, of er, 

Sharper, stroller, lounger, hover) 

Could eer distinguish from each other.” 

%. Croker, Un Richard Jones, the Actor (1778-1861). 
Shutters (Jom, put up the). A 

licutenant threatened Mr. Hoby of St. 
James's Street (London), to withdraw his 
custom ; whereupon Mr. Hoby instantly 
called out to his errand boy, ‘Tom, put 
up the shutters.” This witty reproof has 
become a stock phrase of banter with 
tradesmen when a silly customer threatens 
to withdraw his custom. 


Shylock, the Jew, who lends Anthonio 
(n. Venetian merchant) 8000 ducats for 
three months, on these conditions: If 
repaid within the time, only the 


rincipal would be required; if not, the 

ew should be at liberty to cut from 
Anthonio's body a pound of flesh. The 
ships of Anthonio being delayed by 
contrary winds, the merchant was unable 
to meet his bill, and the Jew claimed the 
forfeiture. Portia, in the dress of a law 
doctor, conducted the trial, and when the 
Jew was about to take his bond, reminded 
him that he must shed no drop of blood, 
nor must he cut either more or less than 
an exact pound. If these conditions 
were infringed, his life would be forfeit. 
The Jew, feeling it to be impossible to 
exact the bond under such conditions, 
gave up the claim, but was heavily fined 
for seeking the life of a Venetian citizen. 
ryt el mathe The Merchant of Venice 

1598). 

It was of C. Macklin (1690-1797) that 
Pope wrote the doggerel : 
This ls the Jew 
That Shakespeare drew ; 

but Edmund Kean (1787-1833) was 
enrivalled in this character. 


According to the kindred autbority of Shylock, ne mas 
bates the thing he would not kill. Ww. . 


*,* Paul Secchi tells us a sitnilar tale: 
A merchant of Venice, haviag been 
informed by private letter that Drake 
had taken and plundered St. Domingo, 
sent word to Sampson Ceneda, a Jewish 
usurer. Ceneda would not believe it, 
and bet a pound of flesh it was not true. 
When the report was confirmed, the po 
told Secchi he might lawfully claim his 
bet if he chose, only be must draw no 
blood, nor take either more or less than 
an exact pound, on the penalty of bei 
hanged.—Greyorio Leti, Life of Sextus V, 
(1666). 

Sibbald, an attendant on the earl of 
Menteith. — Sir W. Scott, Legend of 
Aluntruse (time, Charles 1.). 


Siber, i.c. Siberia. Mr. Bell of Anter- 
mony, in his ZJruarels, informs us that 
Siberia is universally called Siber by the 
Russians. 

From Guinea's coast and Siber’s dreary mines. 
Campbell, Pleasures of Hope, 1. (1788). 

Siberian Climate (4A), a very cold 
and rigorous climate, winterly and in- 
hospitable, with snow-hurricanes and 
biting winds. The valley of the Lena is 
the coldest region of the globe. 


Sibylla, the sibyl. (See S1nya.) 








SIDNEY’S SISTER. 





from the agony of wounds received in 


the battle of Zutphen, gave his own 
draught of water to a wounded private 
lving at his side, saying, ‘‘ Poor fellow, 
thy necessity is greater than mine.” 

A similar instance is recorded of 
Alexander ‘‘the Great,” in the desert 
of Gedrosia. 

David, tighting against the Philistines, 
became so narched with thirst that he 
cried out, ‘*Oh that one would give me 
drink of the water of the well of Beth- 
lehem, which is by the gate!" And the 
three mighty men broke through the host 
of the Philistines and brought him water ; 
nevertheless, he would not drink it, but 
poured it out unto the Lord.—2 Sam, xxiii. 
15-17, 


Sidney’s Sister, Pembroke’s 
Mother. Mary Herbert (born Sidney), 
countess of Pembroke, who died 1621. 


Underneath this asnule hearse 

Lies the subject of all verse— 

Shiney’s sister, Pembroke's mother. 

Death, ere thou bast killed another 

Fair and good and learned as she, 

Time shall throw his dart at thee. 

Wm Browne (1645 See Lanstuwne Collection, 
No. 777, in the British Museum), 


Sido’nian Tincture, purple dye, 
Tyrian purple. The Tyrians and Sido- 


nians were world-famed for their purple | 


dye. 
: Not tn that proud Sidonian tincture dyed. 
Phineas Fletcher, The Purple island, xii. (1633). 


S8id’rophel, William Lilly, the astro- 
loger. 


Quoth Ralph, ’* Not far from bence doth dwell 

A cunning man, hight Sidrophel, 

That deals In destiny’s dark couneela, 

And sage opinions of the moon sells; 

To whom all people, far and near, 

On deep importances repair.” 

8. Butler, Hudibras, M1. 3 (1684). 
Siebel, Margheri’ta's rejected lover, 

in the opera of Faust e¢ Muryherita, by 
Gounod (1859), 


Sidge. Bon sidje est fait, my opinion 
is tixed, and | cannot change it. This 
proverb rose thus: The abbé de Vertot 
wrote the history of a certain siege, and 
applied to a friend for some geographical 
particulars. These particulars did not 
arrive till the matter had passed the 

ress; 90 the abbe remarked with a shrug, 
‘Bah ! mon sicge est fait.” 


Siege Perilous (7he). The Round 
Table contained sieges for 150 cnights, 
but three of them were “reserved.” O 
these, two were posts of honour, but the 
third was reserved for him who was des- 
tined to achieve the quest of the holy 
graal. This seat was called ‘ perilous,” 








SIEGFRIED. 
because if any one sat therein except he 
for whom it was reserved, it would be his 
death. Every seat of the table bore the 
name of its rightful occupant in letters of 
gold, and the nameonthe ‘‘ Siege Perilous * 
was sir Galahad (son of sir Launcelot and 
Elaine), 

Bald Merlin, “There shall no man ait In the two void 
places but Lhey tun! shall be of most worship. But in the 
Sieye Peri/om there shall no man sit but one, and if any 
other be sv hardy aa fo do It, be shall be destroyed.”— Pt, 
Le 

Then the old man made sir Galahad unarm ; and he put 
on hin © git of red sandel, with a mantel a bis 
sioulkler furre! with fine ennines.... he Prought 
him unto the Bleep: Perilous, when he st beside ar 
Launcelot. Amd the good old man lifted up the cloth, 
ond found there these words written: THE SIEGE OF SIR 
GiALaAlsD,—Sir T. Mulory, Sietery of Prince Arthur, ili, 
a3 (14701 

Siege of Calais, a novel b 
de Tencin (1681-1749). George 
has a drama with the same title. 


Siege of Damascus. Damascus 
was besieged by the Arabs, while Eu’- 
menis Was governor. The general of the 
Syrians was Pho’cyas, and of the Arabs 
Caled. Phocyas asked Eumenés's per- 
mission to marry his daughter Eudo’cia, 
but was sternly refused. After gaining 
several victories, he fell into the hands of 
the Arabs, and then joined thein in their 
sieve, in order Lo revenge himself on Eu- 
mencs. Eudocta fell into his power, but 


Mde. 
Iman 


| she refused to marry a traitor. Caled re- 


quested lhocyas to point out to him the 
governors tent ; on being refused, they 
fought, and Caled fell. Abudah, being 
now chief in command, made an honour- 
able peace with the Syrians, Phocyas died, 
and Enudocia retired to a convent.—J. 
Hughes, Sieve of Damascus (1720). 


Siege of Rhodes, by sir W. Daven- 


ant (loot), 


Siegfried [eeq.free 
i. of the Nibelunjen Lied, the old German 
epic. Siegfried was a voung warrior of 
peerless strength and beauty, invulnerable 
except in one spot between his shoulders. 
Ile vanquished the Nibelungs, and carried 
away their immense hoards of gold and 
precious stones. He wooed and won 
Kriemhild, the sister of Ginther king of 
Hurgundy, bot was treacherously killed 
by Hagan, while stooping fora draught 
of water after a hunting expedition. 

Siegfried head a cape or cloak, which 


, hero of pt. 


| rendered him invisible, the gift of the 


dwarf Alberich; and his sword, called 
Balmung, waa forged by Wieland, black- 
amith of the Teutonme gods. 

This epic consists of a number of differ- 
ant lays by the old minnesingers, pieced 








SIGISMUNDA. 


911 





SILKY. 





Sigismunda, the heroine of Cervantes's 
last work of fiction. This tale is a tissue 
of episodes, full of most incredible ad- 
ventures, astounding prodigies, impossible 
characters, and extravagant sentiments. 
It is anid that Cervantes himaelf preferred 
it to his Don Quirofe, just as Comeille 

referred Nicomede to his Cid, and Milton 


‘aradise Regained te his Paradise Lust,— | 


Encyc. Brit., Art. ‘* Romance.” 


Sigurd, the hero of an old Scandi- 
navian legend. Sigurd discovered Bryn- 
hild, encased in complete arniour, lyin, 
in a death-like sleep, to which she had 
been condemned by Odin. Sigurd woke 
her by ripping up her corselet, fell in love 
with her, promised to marry her, but 
deserted her for Gudrun. 
union was the cause of an //iad of woes. 


An analysis of this romance was pub- | 
lished by Weber in his Ji/ustratwas of 


Northern Antiquities (1810). 


Gijil (Al), the recording angel. 
On that day we will rofl op the hanvens a the angel Al 


Bil rolleth up the eroall wherein every mans actluns ore 
recititedl.—A! Kenin, wil. 


Sikes (Fill), a burglar, and one of | 


Fagin’s associates, Lhll Sikes was a 
hardened, irreclaimable villain, but had 
a conscience which slmost drove him 
mad after the murder of Nancy, who 
really loved him (ch. xlvii.). Dill Sikes 
(1 sy/.) bad an ill-conditioned savaye dog, 
the beast-image of his master, which he 
kicked and loved, ill-treated and fondled. 
—i", Dickens, Vlicer Twist (1437). 

The French “* Bill Sikes" is “Jean 
Hiroux,” a creation of Hienn Monnier. 


Sikundra (Jie), a mausoleum about 
six miles from Agra, raised by Akbbah 
“the Great,” in the reign of our Charles I, 


Bilence, a country justice of asinine 
dulness when sober, but when io his cung 
of most oproarious mirth, Tle was in 
the cotnmission uf the peace with his cousin 
Liolert Shallow. 

Puletay?®, [ did not think Master Gllence had been 6 man 
wn Wh [? | baer benno merry teice ond ono, ere 
mow — Shakespeare, 2 Mrearg JV. ecl , = 2 

Sile'no, bushand of Mysis; a kind- 
hearted man, who takes pity on Apollo 
when cast to carth by Jupiter, and gives 
aim a home.—Kane U'liara, Afidas 
(176A), 

Bilent (7‘-), William |. prince of 
range ((iild-1584). It wae the principle 
of Napoleon Ill. emperor of the French 
to hear, see, and say nothing,” 


This ill-starred | 





Silent Man (The), the barber of 
Bagdad, the greatest chatterbox that eves © 
lived. Being sent for to shave the head 
and beard of a young man who wns to 
visit the cadi's daughter at noon, he kept 
him from daybreak to midday, prating, to 
the unspeakable annoyance of the cus- 
tomer. Being subsequently taken before 
the caliph, he ran on telling story after 
story about his six brothers, He was 
called the ‘* Silent Man," because on one 
occasion, being accidentally taken up with 
ten robbers, he never said he was not one of 
the gang. His six brothers were Bacboue 
the hunchback, Bakbarah the toothless, 
Bakac the one-eyed, Alcouz the blind, 
Alnaschar the earless, and Schacabac the 
hare-lipped.—Arahion Nights (** The Bar- 
ber," and “ The Barber's Six Brothers”). 


Bilent Woman (Tile), a comedy by 
Ren Jonson (1609). Moroge, a miserly 
old fellow, who hates to hear any voice 
but his own, has a young nephew, sir 
Dauphine, who wants to wring from him 
a third of his property ; and the way he 
gains his point is this: He induces a lad 
to pretend to be a “silent woman.” 
Morose is go delighted with the phenome- 
non that he consents to marry the pro- 
digy ; but the moment the ceremony is 
over, the boy-wife assumes the character 
of a virago, whose tongue is a ceaseless 
clack. Morose is in despair, and si 
away a third of his property to Tie 
nephew, on condition of being rid of this 
intolerable pest. The trick is now re- 
vealed, Moroge retires into private life, 
and sir Dauphing remains muster of the 
siluation. 


Sile'nus, son of Pan, chief of the 
sile'ni or older satvrs. Sildnus was the 
foster-father of Hacchus the wine-god, 
and is desenbed asa jovial old toper, with 
bald head, pug nose, and pimply face. 


Od Siler, blumied, drunken, 
Lal by hide inert etre 
Longlellum, Drinklag Song, 


Silhouette (3 sy/.), a black profile. 
So called from FElienne de Silhouette, 
contrilewr des finances under Louia XV. 
(liar). 

Le reine fnantere de co miners 
mreyulion #7, ridicuten la carteature ven =! ht ct Tom 
donne by nom de Falheetie: kom deaminase impearfalte of 


Tou @o hora 2 imdiquer jar un alople tradi le conte 
des olijpta. 


Silky, a Jew money-lender, swindler, 
and miser, (See SUK.) 
You cheat all day, tremble at might, and act the 


ertig (he Dret thing bo the ng-—T. Holler, 
Head to Nuin, IL 3 (17 Bie 





wweswsucu; out she detested him, an 

loved Ernani, a bandit-captain. Charle 

V. tried to seduce her, and Silva, in hi 
wrath, joined Ernani to depose the king 
The plot being discovered, the conspi 
rators were arrested, but, at the interces. 
sion of Elvira, were pardoned. Thi 
marriage of Ernani and Elvira was jus 
about to be consummated, when a horr 
sounded. Ernani had bound himself, 
when Silva joined the bandit, to put an 
end to his life whenever summoned so to 
do by Silva ; and the summons was to be 
given by the blast of a horn. Silva being 
relentless, Eriani kept his vow, and 
stabbed himself.—Verdi, /rnani (1841). 


Silver Age (Thc), the ave succeed- 
ing the golden, and succeeded by the 
iron age. The best period of the world 
or of a nation is its golden age, noted for 
giants of literature, simplicity of man- 
ners, integrity of conduct, honesty of 
intention, and domestic virtues. The 
Elizabethan was the golden ave of Eng- 
land. The silver age of a people is noted 
for its elezant retinement, its delicacy of 
speech, its luxurions liviny, its politeness 
and artificial manners. The reign of 
Anne was the silver ave of Enyland. 
The iron age is that of commerce and 
hard matter-of-fact. Birth is nu longer 
the one thing needful, but hard cash; 
the romance of life has died out, and 
iron and coals are the philosopher's atone. 
The aye of Victoria 13 the iron aye of 
England. Strange that the three ages 
should all ha tha =:-—- * 





SILVIA. 918 





Sil'via, danghter of the duke of 
Milan, and the lady-love of Valentine 
one of the heroes of the play,—Shake- 
speare, The Zwo Gentlemen of Verona 
(1594). 

Simmons ( Widow), the seamstress ; 
a neighbour of the Ramsays.—Sir W. 
Scott, Fortunes of Nigel (time, James I.). 


Si'mon (Martin), proprictor of the 
village Bout du Monde, and miller of 
Grenoble. Ue is called “The king of 
Pelyoux,” and in reality is the baron de 
Veyeat, who bas given up all his estates 
to his nepbew, the young chevalier Mar- 
ecllin de sseicde and retired to Grenoble, 
where he lived as a villager. Martin 
Simon is in secret possession of a gold- 
mine left him by his father, with the 
stipulation that he should place it beyond 
the reach of any private man on the day 
it became a “‘ source of woe and crime,” 
Rabisson, a travelling tinker, the only 
person who knows about it, being mur- 
dered, Simon is suspected; but Eusebe 
Noel confesses the crime. Simon then 
makes the mine over to the king of 
France, agit had proved the source both 
“of woe and crime.”"—K, Stirling, Zhe 
Gull-Mine or Miller of Grenoble (1854). 


Pennsylvania, on a visit to Obadiah Prim 
(a Bristo! quaker, and one of the rdians 
of Anne Lovely the beiress), Colonel 
Feignwell personated Simon Pure, and 
obtained Oladiah's consent to marry his 
ward, When the real Simon Pore pre- 
sented himself, the colonel denounced 
him as an impostor; but after he had 
obtained the guardian's signature, he 
eonfessed the trick, and showed how he 
had obtained the consent of the other 
three guardians.—Mrs. Centlivre, A Sold 
Stroke for a Wife (1717). 

*," This nome has become a house- 
hold word for ‘‘ the real man,” the ipsss- 
wus ego. 

Si'monie or Si'mowxrv, the friar, in the 
beast-epic of Aeynard the Fox (1498). So 
ealled from Simon Magus (Acté viii, 
9-24), 

Simony (Pr.), in Foote’s farce called 
The Cuzeners, was meant for Dr. Dodd, 

Sim'org, « bird ‘which hath seen 
the world thrice destroyed,” Tt is found 
in Kaf, but, a» Tlafiz eoys, “ searching 
for the simorg is like ee for the 


philosophers ston e." This does not 
avtee with Beckford's account (see 
Simvuron). 





fo KAS the dmorg hath Ita dwellin “ 

The all-knowing bird of whe hath sam, 

The world with all its children thrice destrope, 
Boothey, Tawlobe the 


Sim pcox (Savnder), a lame man, whe 
iacarted be was born blind, and to whom 
St. Alban said, “Come, offer at mv 
shrine, and I will help thee,” i 
brought before Humphrey duke of 
Gloucester, the lord protector, he was 
asked how he became lame; and Sim 
cox replied be fell from a tree, which he 
bad climbed to gather plums for his wife. 
The duke then asked if his sight had 
been restored? “Yes,” said the man; and 
being shown divers colours, could readily 
distinguish between red, bine, bro 
and so on. The duke told the | 

that a blind man does not climb trees to 
gather their fruits; and one born blind 
might, if his sight were restored, know 
that one colour differed from another, but 
could not possibly know which was 
which. He then placed a stool before 
him, and ordered the constables to whip 
him till he jumped over it; whereon the 
lame nan jumped over it, and ran off as 


| fast as his legs could carry him. Sir 


Thomas More tells this ~a) and Shake- 
speare introduces it in 2 Henry VJ. act 


; } it. oc. 1 (1591), 
Bimon Pure, « young quaker from | 


Simple, the servant of Slender (cousin 
of justice Shallow).—Shakespeare, The 
Merry Wives of Windsor (1596). 


Simple (The), Charles III. of France 
(879, 893-929), 


Simple (Peter), the hero and title of a 
novel by captain Marryat (1833). 


Simple Simon, a man more sinned 
against than sinning, whose misfortunes 
arose from his wife Margery's cruelty, 
which began the very morning of their 
marriage. 

Wedo not know whether it lb) necemry to week for o 
Teutonic or Northern original for this once popular book, 
— quarterly Kevlew, 

Simpson (Jam), the drunken barber. 
—Sir W. Scott, St. Honan's Well (time, 
George III.). 

Simson (Jean), an old woman at 
Middlemas village.—Sir W. Beats The 
Surgeon's Daughter (time, George II.), 

Simurgh, a falulous Eastern bird 
endowrd with reason and knowing all 
languages. It had seen the great cycle 
of 7000 years twelve times, and, during 
that period, it declared it had seen the 
earth wholly without inhabitant seven 
times. —W. Beckford, wees (notes, 

3 


. -_~ kh @AAUALUL DF bdlalal a Lenliatal 
siew the enchantresr, and the serpen 
coiling about his neck, kissed him 
whereupon the spel] was broken, th 
serpent became a lovely princess, and «i 
Lybius made her his wife.—Libeuue (1 
romance). 


Sindbad, a merchant of Bagdad, who 
acquired great wealth by merchandize. 
He went seven voyages, which he related 
to a poor discontented porter named 
Hindbad, to show him that wealth must 
be obtained by enterprise and personal 
exertion. 

First Voyage. Being becalmed in the 
Indian Ocean, he and some others of the 
crew visited what they supposed to be an 
islaud, but which was in reality a huge 
whale asleep. They lighted a fire on the 
whale, and the heat woke the creature, 
which instantly dived under water. Sind- 
bad was picked up by some merchants, 
and in due time returned home. 

Second Voyayje. Sindbad was left, during 
sleep, on a desert island, and discovered 
@ roc's a “fifty paces in circum- 
ference.” e fastened himself to the 
claw of the bird, and was deposited in 
the valley of diamonds. Next day, some 
merchants came to the top of the crags, 
and threw into the valley huge joints of 
raw micat, to which the diamonds stuck, 
and when the cayles picked up the meat, 
the merchants sca them from their 
pests, and carried off the diamonds. 
Sindbad fastened himself to a piece of 


meat, was carried by an earle ta tt» -- * 
and h~!- 








SINGLETON. 


915 SIRENS. 





self. 


Tt waa supposed that he had exhansted himself In that 
one mpeeth, and had become nalcall : 
noking o second; = that afterwards, when he really did 
make a cond, crernbxly waa naturally d ted, and 
~~ aa ci anata meainanes ‘Quincey 
ih 


Singleton (Captain), the hero of a 
novel by D. Defoe, called The Adventures 
of Cuptain Singleton, 

Tie serond part [af Fok/ween Cruse] scarcely rice 
sieve the level of Coptedn Singlefon.—mepe, Brit, Art. 
* Retineiom, 

Singular Doctor (The), William 
Oveam, Doctor Sinjularis et Invinotbilis 
(1276-1547). 

*,.”" The “ Oceam razor™ waa entia non 
sunt mu/tiplicenda, ‘entities are not to 
be unnecessarily multiplied.” In other 
words, elements, genera, and first prin- 
ciplea are very few in nomber. 

Sin'is or Sivsrs, o Corinthian robber, 
called ‘* The T‘ine-Hender,” because he 
fastened his victims to the branches of 
two adjacent pine trees bent down by 
force ; Leing then left to rebound, they 
tore the victim to pieces.—Greek Fuble. 

In Stephen's reign, we are told, ‘the 
barons tuok those supposed to have any 
property, and inflicted on them unutter- 
able tortures, 
the fect, and emoked with foul amoke; 


some they hung by the thumbs, and | 
They tied | 


weighted with coats of mail, 
knotted cords about the heads of others, 
and twisted the cords till the pain went to 
the brains ; others they kept in dungeons 
with adders and snakes, Some they tore 
in pieces by fastening them to two trees; 
‘nd some they placed in a crucet house, 
i.e. a chest short and narrow, in which 
were spikes: the victims being forced into 


and broken."—Ingram, Saron Chronicle. 


Sinner Saved (A). Cyra daughter 
of Proteriua of Cappadécia was on the 
point of taking the veil among Emmelia's 
sisterhood, and just before the day of 
renunciation, El4@mon, her father’s freed 


slave, who loved her, sold himself to the | 


devil, on condition of obtaining her for his 
wife. le signed the bond with adrop of 
his heart's lelareval, and carried about with 
him a little red spot on his breast, as a 
perpetual reminder of the compact. The 
devil now sent a dream to Cyra, and 
another to her father, which caused them 
to change their plans; and on the ve 

day that (yra was to have taken the veil, 
she was given by St. Hasil in marriage to 


Kleemon, with whom she lived happily for 


the shade every orator except Pitt him- | 


to annul 


Some they hanged up by | 





many years, and had a large family. One 
night, while her husband was asleep, Cyra 
saw the blood-red spot; she knew what it 
meant, and next day Eleemon told her tha 
whole story, Cyra now bestirred herself 
he compact, and went with her 
husband to St. Basil, to whom a free and 
full confession was made. Eleemon was 
shut up for a night in o cell, and Satan 
would have carried him off, but he clung 
to the foot of a crucifix. Next day, Satan 
met St. Basil in the cathedral, and de- 
manded his bond. St. Basil assured him 
the bond was illegal and invalid. The 
devil wns foiled, the red mark vanished 
from the skin of Eleemon, a sinner was 
saved, and St. Basil came off victorious, 
—Amphilochius, Life of St. Basil. (See 
Rosweyde, Vite Patrum, 156-8.) 

*.* Southey has converted this legend 
into a ballad of nine lays (1829). 


Sinon, the crafty Greek who per- 
suaded the Trojans to drag the Wooden 
Horse into their city.—Virgil, Aneid, ii. 

Dante, in his Jnferno, places Sinon, 
with Potiphar's wife, Nimrod, and the 
rebellious giants, in the tenth pit of 
Malébolgé (see p. 473), 


Bin'toism, the primitive religion of 
Japan, It recognizes Jien (*‘the sun") 
as the supreme deity, under whom is a 
crowd of inferior gods and goddesses, 
The priests eat no animal food. The 
name is derived from Sin, a demi-god. 

Sintram, the Greek hero of the 
German romance Sinfram and His Com- 
panions, by baron Lamotte Fouqueé. 

Sintram's Sword, Welsung. 

Sio’na, a seraph, to whom was com- 


| mitted the chargre of Rartholomew the 
the chest, all their limba were crushed | E ; 


apostle.—Klopstock, The Messiah, iii. 
(1748). 


Biph’a, the guardian angel of Andrew 


the brother of Simon Peter.—Klopstock, 


The Messiah, iii. (1748). 

Bi'phax, a soldier, in love with prin- 
cess Calis, sister of Astorax king of 
Le oe The princess is in love with 
Polydore the brother of general Memnon 
(‘‘ the mad lover™).—Beaumont and Flet- 
cher, The Mad Lover (1617). 

Bir Oracle, a dictatorial prig, a 
dogmatic pedant. 

I om or Oracha, 
And when | ope my Jipa, let oo dog bark. 

Shaleapeors, Merchant of Vemiss, ocf L oc, | (10), 

Sirens, three sea-nympha, whose 
usual abode was a small island near cape 








SIWARD. 


917 





0 The last two lines might be amended 
lus : 

There turks the trembling mouse with bated breath, 

And, hid from sight, av his instant death. 

Siward [Se’.ward], the earl of Nor- 
thumberland, and general of the English 
forces acting against Macbeth.—Shake- 
spears, Jf (1606). 

Six Chronicles (The). Dr. Giles 
compiled and edited six Old English 
Chronicles for Bohn’s series in 1848. 
They are: Ethelwerd'’s Chronicle, Asser's 
Life of Alfred, Geoffrey of Monmouth's 
British History, Gildas the Wise, Nennius’s 
History of the Brituns, and Richard of 
Cirencester On the Ancient State of Britain. 
The last three were edited, in 1757, by 
professor Bertram, in his Scriptores Tres, 

ut great doubt exists on the genuineness 
of Dr. Bertram's compilation. (See 
THREE WRITERS.) 


Six Islands (The), which constita- 


ted ‘‘Great Brittany” before the Saxon 
period, were Ireland, Iceland, Gothland, 
the Orkneys, Norway, and Dacia (or 
Denmark), 


Six Months’ War (7he), the great 
war between Prussia and France. The 
emperor (Napoleon III.) left St. Cloud 
July 28, 1870, and Paris capitulated 
January 28, 1871. 


Sixpenny War (The), the 0. P. 
(old price) riot of Covent Garden in 1809. 
So called because the managers tried to 
raise the price of admission from 8s. 6d. 
to 4s. If the managers had not given 
way, the newly built theatre would have 
been utterly dismantled. 


Sixteen-String Jack, John Rann, 
a highwayman. e was a great fop, 
and wore sixteen tags to his breeches, 
eight at each knee (hanged 1774). 


Dr. Johnson said that Gray's poetry towered above the 
erdinary ran of verse. as Sixteen-String Jack above the 
ordinary foot-pad.—Buswell, Life af Johnson (1701). 


Skeffington, author of Sleeping 
Beauty, Maus and Bachelors, ete. 


And sure great Skeffington must claim our praise 

bor skirtless coats, and skeletons of 

Byron, Anyliss Bards and Sooteh Reviewers (1808). 

Skeggs (Afiss Carolina Wilhelmina 
Amelia), the companion of ‘lady Blar- 
nev.” These were two flash women 
introduced by squire Thornhill to the 
Primrose family, with a view of beguilin 
the two eldest daughters, who were bo 
very beautiful. Sir William Thornhill 
thwarted their infamous purpose.—Gold- 
smith, Vicar of Wakefield (1766). 


SKIFFINS. 
Skeleton at the Feast. Plutarch 
says that in Egyptian banquets towards 


the close a servant brought in a skeleton, 
and cried aloud to the guests, ** Look on 
this! Eat, drink, and be merry, for to- 
morrow you die!" Herodotos says tho 
skeleton was a wooden one, about eighteen 
inches in length. (See 1 Cor. xv. 82.) 
The stranger feasted at his board ; 
But, like the skeleton at the feast, 
That warn never ceased : 
** For ever—Never! Never—For ever |” 
Longfellow, The Old Clock om the Stairs. 
Skelton (Sam), a smuggler.—Sir 
W. Scott, Redyuuntlet (time, George II1.). 
Sketchley (Arthur), George Rose, 
author of Mrs. Brown (her observations 
on men and objects, politics and manners, 
etc.). 


Skettles (Sir Barnet), of Fulham. 
He expressed his importance by an 
antique gold snuff-box and silk d- 
kerchief. His hobby was to extend his 
acquaintances, and to introduce people 
to each other. Skettles, junior, was a 
pupil of Dr. Blimber.—C. Dickens, 

ombey and Son (1846). 

Skevington’s Daughter, an in- 
strument of torture invented by Skeving- 
ton, lieutenant of the Tower in the reign 
of Henry VIII. It consisted of a broad 
iron hoop, in two parts, jointed with a 
hinge. e victim was put into the 
hoop, which was then squeezed close and 
locked. Here he remained for about an 
hour and a half in the most inexpressible 
torture. (Generally corrupted into the 
‘¢ Scavenger's Daughter.”) 

Skewton (Zhe Hoa. BMrs.), mothe: 
of Edith (Mr. Dombey’s second wife). 
Having once been a beauty, she painted 
when old and shrivelled, became en- 
thusiastic about the ‘‘ charms of nature,” 
and reclined in her bath-chair in the 
attitude she assumed in her barouche 
when young and well off. A fashionable 
artist had painted her likeness in this 
attitude, and called his picture ‘‘ Cleo- 
patra.” The Hon. Mrs. Skewton was 
the sister of the late lord Feenix, and 


aunt to the present lord.—C. Dickens, 
Dombey and (1846). 
Skies, snobs, blackguards. At West- 


minster School the boys call themselves 
Romans, and the ‘‘town” Volsci, contracted 
into ‘sci, and corrupted into ‘ skies.” 
“Snowball the skies! ° thought 1, not knowing that 
skies” and blackguards were term 
Lord W. P. Lennos, Celebrities, ote., 1. % 


Skiffins (Miss), an angular, middle- 


y-oe veginal of this character w 
Leigh Hunt, who was greatly displeas: 
at the skit.) 


Skin (The Man without a), Richa 
Cumberland. So called by Garrick, o 
account of his painful sensitiveness c 
all criticism. The same irritability o 
temper made Sheridan caricature him it 
The Critic as “sir Fretful Plagiary ' 
(1732-1811). 


Skinfaxi (‘shining mane”), the 
horse which draws the chariot of day.— 
Scundinavian Mythology. 


Skofnung, the sword of king Rolf 
the Norway hero, preserved for centuries 
in Iceland. 


Skogan. (See Scocay.) 


Skreigh (Jfr.), the precentor at the 
Gordon Arms inn, Kippletringan.—Sir 
of Scott, Guy Mannering (time, George 


Skulls. The skulls of the ancient 
Persians were so thin-boned that a small 
pebble would break them ; whereas thuse 
of the Eyyptians were so thick in the 
bone that they would not break even with 
the blow of a huge stone.—Herodotos, 
History (in nine books, called ‘‘ The 
Nine Muses"’). 


Skulls at Banquets. Plutarch 
tells us that towards the close of an 
Evyptian feast a servant brought in a 
skeleton, and cried to the guests, ‘* Eat, 
drink, and be merrv. for *: - 








SLANGO. 


Blango, a iad, servant of Gaylove 
nm young barrister. He dresses up as a 
woman, and when aquire Sapskull comes 
fiom Yorkshire for a wife, Slango passes 
himeclf off as Arbella. In the meantime, 
Gavlove assumes the airs and manners of 
a Yorkshire tike, and marries Arbella, 
with whom he ia in love.-—Carey, The 
Honest Yorkshireman (1736). 


Slawken-Ber’gius Hafen, an 
imaginary author, distinguished for the 
great length of hia nose. In the Life 
ani Opinions of Tristram Shandy (by 
Sterne), Slawken-Bergins is referred to 
asa creat authority on all lore connected 
with noses, and a curious tale is intro- 
duced from his hypothetical works about 
a man with an enormously long nose, 

Ko noe con be jostly empoteted the public, oot 
even the nose of Slawken-Bergiua blo —Carlyla 


Slaygood (fant), master of a gang 


of thieves which infested the King's | 


highway. Mr. Greatheart slew him, and 
rescudl Feeblemind from bis grasp in a 
ducl.—Bunyan, Pilgrom's Progress, UU. 
(1084). 


Slea'ry, proprietor of the circus at 
Cuoketown. stout man, with one eye 
fixed and one loose, a voive like the 
eflorta of a broken pair of bellows, a 
flabby skin, and muddled head. He was 
never sober and never drunk, but always 
kintlehearted. Tom tGradyrind, after 
ribbing the bank, lay concealed in this 
circus as a black servant, till Sleary con- 
nived at his escape, This Sleary did in 
rratitude to Thomas Gradgrind, Esq., 
1.P., who adopted and educated Cecilia 
Jupe, daughter of bis clown, signor 
Jupe. 

Jomephijhd Sleary, daughter of the circus 
peoriensnain, a pretty girl of 18, who had 
been tied on « horse at two years old, 
and had made a will at 12. This will 
she carried alwwt with her, and in it she 
siznitied her desire to be drawn to the 
crave by two piebald ponies. Josephine 
married KE, W. Ih. Childers of ber father's 
circus.—(), Dickens, Hurd Times (1854). 


Sleek (Aminadib), in The Serious 
Fumnily, a comedy by Morris Barnett, 


Sleeper (Jie). Almost all nations | 


have o tradition aboot some sleeper, who 
will wake after a long penwd of dor- 
nancy. 

American (North), Rie van Winkie, 
a Dutch celonist of New York 


twenty yeara in the Kaatskill Moun- 


slept | 


919 





SLEEPER. 


tains of North America.—Washington 
Irving. 

American (South). Senastian I., sup- 
posed to have fallen in the battle of 
Alcazarquebir, in 1578, is only asleep, 
and will in due time awake, return to 
life, and make Brazil the chief kingdom 


of the earth. 


Arabian Legends. Manommerp Mo- 
HADI, the twelfth imiin, is only sleeping, 
like Charlemagne, till Antichrist appears, 
when he will awake in his strength, and 
overthrow the great enemy of all true 
believers. 

NouRJAWAD is only in a temporary 
sleep, waiting the fulness of time. 

British Traditions, Kine Arruun ia 
not dead in Avillon, but is merely meta- 
morphosed into araven. In due time he 
will awake, resume his proper person, 
claim the throne of Britain, and make it 
the head and front of all the ie 
of the globe. ‘' Because king ur 
bears for the nonce the semblance of a 
raven, the people of Britain never kill a 
raven" (Cervantes, Dua Quirote, J. ii. 6). 

GYNETH slept 500 years by the en- 
chantment of Merlin. She was the 
natural daughter of king Arthur and 
Guendolen, and was thus punished be- 
cause she would not put an end to a com- 
bat in which twenty knights were mortall 
wounded, including Merlin's son,—Sir W. 
Seott, Aridul of Trermain (1813). 

Mri, the enchanter, is not dead, 
but “sleeps and sighs in an old ¢ 
epell-bound by Vivien."—JSritish Lex 

St. Davi was thrown into an en- 
chanted sleep by Ormandine, but after 
Hg for seven yeara, was awoke by 
Merlin. 

French Legend. The French slain in 
the Srcmtan VeEsPeks are not really 
dead, but they sleep for the time being, 
awaiting the day of retribution, 

verman Lejends. Barnnanossa with 
eix of his knights sleep in Ky fhatlsbery, 
in Thuringia, tll the fulness of time, 
when they will awake and make Germany 
the foremost kingdom of the earth. The 
beard of the red king has already grown 


| through the table slab at which he is 


sitting, but it must wind itself three 
times round the table before hig second 
advent. Larbarosaa occasionally wakes 
and asks, ‘Is it time?" when @ Voice 
replies, “‘ Not yet. Sleep on." 
CUARLEMAGNE is not dead, but ony 
asleep in Untersberg, near Saltzhu 
waiting for the advent of Antichrist, 
when he will rouse from his slumber, go 


ge. oe. SA EE a eS 
a while, and at an allotted moment he wi 
re-appear in his full strength. 

Grecian Leyends. ENpy™ Ion, a beau 
tiful youth, sleeps a perpetual slee 
Latmos. Seléné (the ean fell in ion 
with him, kissed him, and still lies bs 
his side. In the British Museum is ar 
exquisite statue of Endymion asleep.— 
Greek Fable. 


ErimeEn’ipes Gr sy.) the Cretan poet 
was sent in boyhood to search for a stray 
sheep; being heated and weary, he 
stepped into a cave, and fell asleep for 
fifty-seven years. Epimenidés, we are 
told, attained the age of 154, 157, 229, 
A ae say 289 years.—Pliny, History, 
vii. 

Trish Traditions. Briax, surnamed 
i Boroimbe,” king of Ireland, who con- 
quered the _ Danes in twenty pitched 
battles, was supposed fo ive been 
slain in the battle of Clontarf, in 1014, 
was only stunned. He still sleeps i in his 
castle of eae and the day of Ire- 


land's necessity will be Brian's oppor- 
tunity. 

DEsMOXD OF his nertemeasteiab in Lime- 
nek, su have perished in the 


reign of reabeth, is only sleeping under 
the waters of lough Gur. Every seventh 
year he re-appears in full armour, rides 
sound the lake early in the morning, and 
will ultimately rere and claim the 
oy ix estates.—Si Scott, Fortunes 


igel. 
Jewish Legend. Exisan the prophet 
is not dead. hnt -'---- 





SLEEPER AWAKENED. 921 





was treated as the caliph. He ordered 
the imin to be punished, and sent his 
mother a handsome gift; but at night, 
anvther sleeping draught being given 
him, he was carried back to his own 
house. When he woke, he could not 
decide if he had been in a dream or not, 
bat his conduct was so strange that he 
wus taken Lo a mad-house, 
fined for several days, and, being dis- 
charced, the caliph in disyuise again 


visited him, and repeated the same game, | 
eo that next dav he could not tell which | 


had been the dream. At length the 
mystery was cleared up, and he wns 
given a post about the caliph'’a persun, 
and the sultana gave him a beautiful 
plave for his wife. Abou Hassan now 
played a trick on the caliph. Ile pre- 
tended to be dead, and sent bis young 
wife to the sultana to announce the a 

news, /obeida, the sultana, was very 
much grieved, and eave her favourite a 
sum of money fur the funeral expenses, 
Un her return, she played the dead 


woman, and Abou Llassan went to the | 


ealiph to announce his loss, The caliph 
expressed hie symymtliy, and, haviog 
given him a sum of money for the 
funeral expenses, went to the sultana 
to speak of the sad news of the death of 
the young bride. ‘The bride?” cried 
Zobeida; “you mean the bridegroom, 
commander of the faithful.” ‘*No, I 
mean the bride,” answered the caliph, 
“for Abou Hassan has but jost left me.” 
‘That cannot be, sire,” retorted Zobeida, 
“for it is not an hour ago that the bride 
was here, to announce his death.” To 
pettle this mvot point, the chief of the 
eunuchs was sent to see which of the two 
was dead; and Abou, who saw him 
coming, gut the bride to pretend to be 
dead, and ect himself at her head be- 
wailing, «) the man returned with the 
report that it was the bride who was dead, 
and pot the bridesroom. The sultans 
would not ‘elieve him, and sent her aged 
Durse to ascertain the fact. As she 
approached, Alwu Hasean pretended to be 
dead, and the bride to be the wailing 
widow; accordingly the nurse contra- 
dicted the report of the eunuch. The 


caliph and sultana, with the nurse and | 


eunuch, then all went to eee for them- 
a‘ives, and found beth apparently dead, 
The caliph new said he would give 1000 
picees of pold to know which died first, 
when Alou tlassan cried, ‘‘ Commander 
of the faithful, it was I who died first.” 
The trick was found out, the caliph 





He wags con- | 


| housekeeper of Arthur Gride. 





a i 


SLIP. 


nearly died with laughter, and the jest 
proved a little mine of wealth to the 
court favourite.—Arabian Nights, 


Sleepers. (See Seven SLeerens.) 


Sleeping Beauty (Tie), a lady 
who sleepa in a castle a hundred yes 
during which time an impenetrable w 
springs up around the castle; but being 
at length disenchanted by a young 
prince, she marries him. The brothers 
Grimm have reproduced this tale in Ger- 
man. The old Norse tale of Brynhild 
and Sigurd seems to be the original of 
The Slevping Seauty.—Perrault, Contes 
du Temps (‘* La Belle au Bois Dormant,” 
1697). 

(Tennyson has poetized this nursery 
story.) 


Sleepner, the horse of Odin, 


Blender, one of the suitors of “‘eweet 
Anne Page." His servant's name is 
Simple. Slender is a country lout, 
cousin of justice Shallow.—Shakespeare, 
Merry Wives of Windwor (1596). 


Slender oo perfect mire... on the brilliant youth of 
the proviocm .. . befure the introduction of ne 





De wepmaperp 
| and turoplke roads; owkward and beobyish among evil 


peuple, ut at home Ln rude sports. and proud of exploits 
a! which the town would laugh. — Hallas, 


Blender and gir Andrew Ague-cheek are fools troubled 
with an oneey coneciouenes of their folly, which in the 
preluce «mont odifying mosknes and docility, and 

in the formar awkwardness, obstinacy, aod pene abe elon.» 


Blick (Sam), judge Thomas Chandler 
Haliburton of Nova Scotia, author of The 
Clockmaker (1837). 

Sam Slick, a Yankee clockmaker and 
pedlar, wonderfully ‘cute, a great ob- 
server, full of quaint ideas, droll 1} 
odd fancies, surprising illustrations, an 

lenty of ‘“‘soft sawder.” Judge Hali- 
feces wrote the two series culled Sam 
Slick or the Clockmaker (1837), 

Bliderskew (/ ey), the hag-hke 
She robs 
her master of some deeds, and thereby 


| brings on his ruin.—C. Dickens, Nicholas 
| Nickleby (1838), 


Sligo (r.), of Ireland. He looks 
with contempt on his cuuntryman, Dr, 
Osasafras, because he is but a parvent, 


fimatfris? That's o nome of pp pote He le pole 
Miletian, |] om sure, The familly, | spp, come oper 
the otter day with Btrongtew, not above seven or elghs 
hondned pein igu—Fuste, The Jeri! upon Po Stinks 


(Teel) 
Slingsby (J/vnatian Freke), John 
Francia Waller, author of Zhe Slingsby 


Papera (1852), ete. 
Slip, the valet of young Harlowe (son 





SLUM. 928 


Erasmus Holiday the schoolmaster in 
White Horse Vale. 

Dickie Sludye or ‘ Flibbertigibbet,” 
her dwarf yrandson.—Sir W. Scott, 
Kenilworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Slum (J/r.), a patter poet, who 
dressed en militaire. He called on Mrs. 
Jarley, exhibitor of wax-works, all by 
accident. ‘‘ What, Mr. Slum?” cried 
the lady of the wax-work ; ‘‘ who'd have 
thought of seeing youhere?” ‘’Ponmy 
soul and honour,” said Mr. Slum, 
“that's a good remark! ‘Pon my soul 
and honour, that’s a wise remark... 
Why I came here? ‘Pon my soul and 
honour, I hardly know what I came 
here for... What a splendid classical 
thing is this, Mrs. Jarley! 'Pon my soul 
and honour, it is quite Minervian!” 
‘It'll look well, F fancy,” observed Mrs. 
Jarley. “Well!” said Mr. Slum; ‘‘it 
would be the delight of my life, ‘pon my 
soul and honour, to exercise my Muse on 
such a delightful theme. By the way— 
any orders, madam ? Is there anything 
[ can do for you?” (ch. xxviii.). 

‘Ask the perfurmera,” said the military gentleman, 
“ask the blacking-makers, ask the hatters, ask the ohl 
lottery office keepers. ask any mnan among ‘em what 
Gee name of Slum." Dickeng Phe Old Curioeity Saop 
ss). 

Slumkey (Simue!), “ blue” candidate 
for the representation of the borough of 
Eatanswill in parliament. His opponent 
is Horatio Fizkin, who represents the 
** buff” interest.—C. Dickens, The Pick- 
wick Pupers (1836). 


Sly (Christopher), a keeper of bears, 
and a tinker. In the induction of 
Shakespeare's comedy called Zuming of 
the Shrew, Christopher is found dead 
drunk by a nobleman, who commands 
his servants to take him to his mansion 
and attend on him as alord. The trick 
is played, and the ‘“‘commonty” of 
Taminj of the Shrew is performed for 
the delectation of the ephemeral lord. 

A similar trick was played by Haroun- 
al-Raschid on a rich merchant named 
Abou Hassan (see Arabian Nujhts, “The 
S'eeper Awakened”). Also by Philippe 
le Bon of Burgundy, on his marriage 
with Eleanora (see Burton, Anatomy of 
Melancholy, ii. 2, 4, 1624). 


Slyme (ery), one of old Martin 
Chuzzlewit’s numerous relations. He is 
a drunken, good-for-nothing vagabond, 
but his friend Montague Tigg considers 
him ‘‘an unappreciated genius.” His 
chief peculiarity consists in his always 








SMA’TRASH. 


being ‘‘ round the corner.”—C. Dickens, 
Martin Chuzzlewit (1844). 


Small (Gilbert), the pinmaker, a 
hardworking old man, who loves his son 
most dearly. 

Thomas Small, the son of Gilbert, a 
would-be man of fashion and maccaroni. 
Very conceited of his fine person, he 
thinks himself the very glass of fashion. 
Thomas Small resolves to make a fortune 
by marriage, and allies himself to Kate, 
who turns out to be the daughter of Strap 
the cobbler.—S. Knowles, Zhe Beygar of 
Bethnal Green (1834). 


Small Beer (T7o .. . Chronicle’. 
“To suckle fools, and chronicle smail 
beer” (Iago). — Shakespeare, Othello, 
act ii. sc. 1 (1611). 


Small Beer Poet (The), W. 
Thomas Fitzgerald. He is now known 
only for one line, quoted in the Rejected 
Addresses: ‘‘ The tree of freedom is the 
British oak.” Cobbett gave him the 
sobriquet (1759-1829). 


Small-Endians, a ‘religious sect” 
in Lilliput, who made it an article of or- 
thodoxy to break their eggs at the small 
end. By the Small-endians is meant the 
protestant party; the Roman Catholics 
are called the Big-endians, from their 
making it a sine gud non for all true 
Churchmen to break their eugs at the big 

8 





end.—Swift, Gulliver's Travels (“‘ Voyage 
to Lilliput,” 1726). 
Smallweed Famil (The), o@ 


ing, ill-conditioned lot, consisting 
of grandfather, grandmother, and the 
twins Hartholomew and Judy. The 
grandfather indulges in vituperative ex- 
clamations against his aged wife, with or 
without prevocation, and flings at her 
anything he can lay his hand on. He 
becomes, however, so dilapidated at last 
that he has to be shaken up by his 
amiable granddaughter Judy in order to 
be aroused to consciousness, 

Bart., i.e. Bartholomew Smatlweed, 
a youth who moulds himeelf on the 
model of Mr. Guppy, the lawyer's clerk 
in the office of Kenge and Carboy. 
He prides himself on being “a limb 
of the law,” though under 15 years of 
age ; indeed, it is reported of him that his 
first long clothes were made out -f a 
lawyer's blue bag.—C. Dickens, Bleah 
House (1852). 


Sma’trash (£ 


ic), the ale-woman 
at Wolf's Hope vi 


—B8ir W. Scott, 





eee gw eepeewes ssmuoumil), BU 
oo Calamy), TY (Thomas Young), 

(Matthew Newcomen), UUS 
(William Spurstow). Sometimes one U 
is omitted. Butler says the business of 
synods is: 


Smell a Voice. When a young 
prince had clandestinely visi the 
young pri brought up in the palace 

the Flower Mountain, the fairy mother 
Violenta said, ‘‘I smell the voice of a 
man,” and commanded the dragon on 
which she rode to make search for the 
i -—Comtesse D’Aunoy, Fairy 
Zales (‘* The White Cat,” 1682). 

Bottom says, in the part of ‘‘ Pyra- 
mus:” 





SMITH'S PRIZEMAN. 


SNEAK. 





supporting a fourth commemorate the 
place of his stithy. His fee was six- 
pence, and he was offended if more were 
offered him. 

Sir W. Scott has introduced him in 
Kenilworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Smith’s Priseman, one who has 
obtained the prize (£25) founded in the 
University of Cambridge by Robert 
Smith, D.D., once Master of Trinity. 
Two prizes are awarded annually to two 
commencing bachelors of arte for pro- 
ficiency in mathematics and natural 
philosophy. 


Smolkin, a punic spirit. 
Peace, Bmpulkin, peace, thou fiend | 
Shakepeare, King Lear, act lil. ac. 4 (1605). 
Smollett of the St (The), 
George Farquhar (1678-1707). 


Smotherwell (Stephen), the exe- 
cutioner.—Sir W. Scott, Fawr Maid of 
Perth (time, Henry IV.). 


Smyr’nean Poet (The), Mimnermos, 
born at Smyrna (tl. B.c. 630), 


Snacks, the hard, grinding steward 
of lord Lackwit, who by grasping got 
together £26,000. When lord Lackwit 
dicd, and the property came to Robin 
Roughhead, he toadied him with the 
rrentest servility, but Robin dismissed 
him and gave the post to Frank.—Alling- 
ham, furtune’s Frolic. 


Snaggs, a village portrait-taker and 
tooth-drawer. Hesays, ‘‘ 1 draws off heads 
and draws out teeth,” or ‘I takes off 
heads and takes out teeth.” Major 
Touchwood, having dressed himself up 
to look like his uncle the colonel, pre- 
tends to have the tooth-ache. Snaygs, 
being sent for, prepares to operate on 
the colonel, and the colonel in a towerin 
rave sends him to the nght about.—T. 
Dibdin, Whut Nest ¢ 


Snags’by (4Mr.), the law-stationer in 
Cook's Court, Cursitor Street. <A very 
mild specimen of the ‘spear half,” in 
terrible awe of his termagant wife, whom 
he calls euphemistically  ‘‘his little 
woman.” He preceded most of his 
remarks by the words, ‘‘ Not to put too 
ine a point upon it.”—C. Dickens, Bleak 
House (1852). 


Snail, the collector of customs, near 
Ellangewan House.—Sir W. Scott, Guy 
Maunneriny (time, George H.). 


Snailsfoot (Frycc), the jagger or 


lar.—Sir W. Scott, The Pirate (time, 
filliam III.). 


Snake (r.), a traitorous ally of 
lady Sneerwell, who has the effrontery 
to say to her, ‘‘ You paid me extremely 
liberally for propagating the Jie, but 
unfortunately I have been offered double 
to speak the truth.” Ile says: 


Ah, air, consider, I live by the of my 
character ; and if it were once known that I have bees 
betrayed into an honest action, | shall lose every friend I 
ie in the workl.—Sheridan, Sohoel for Seandal, ¥. 


Snap, the representation of a dragon 
which for many years was carried about 
the city of Norwich on Guild day in 

nd procession with flags and banners, 

nds of music, and whifflers with swords 
to clear the way, all in fancy costume. 
Snap was of great length, a man was in 
the middle of the beast to carry it, and 
caused its head to turn and jaws to open 
an amazing width, that half-pence might 
be tossed into it and caught in a bag. 
The procession was stop in the year 
1824, when Snap was laid up in St. 
Andrew's Hall. 

At Metz a similar procession used to 
take place annually on St. Mark’s Day, 
the French Snap being called ‘St. Cle- 
ment's dragon.” 


Snare (1 syi.), sheriff's officer.— 
Shakespeare, 2 Henry IV. (1598). 


Snaw'ley, ‘in the oil and colowe 
line.” <A ‘‘ sleek, flat-nosed man, i 
in his countenance an expression o 
mortification and sanctity.”—C,. Dickens, 
Nicholas Nickleby, iii. (1838). 


Sneak (Jerry), a hen-pecked pin- 
maker; @ paltry, pitiful, prying sneak. 
If ever he summoned upa little manliness, 
his wife would begin to cry, and Jerry 
was instantly softened. 


Master Sneak... . . the ancient of Garratt, 
in consideratiun of yuur great parts and abilities, and out 
of respect to their landlord sir Jacub, have 
chosen yuo mayor.—Act iL 


Jerry Break bas become the type of ben-pecked bas- 
bandas —- Temple Bar, 456 (1875). 

Mrs. Sneak, wife of Jerry, a do- 
mineering tartar of a woman, who keeps 
her lord and master well under her 
thumb. She is the daughter of sir Jacob 
Jollup.—S. Foote, The Mayor of Gurratt 

1763). 
( Jerry Sneak Russell. So Samuel 
Russell the actor was called, because of 
his inimitable representation of ‘‘ ‘erry 
Sneak,” which waa quite a hit (1766- 
1845). 








SNOW KING. 927 


the troupe. He was cast for Pyramus‘a 
father, but has nothing to aay, and does 
not even put in on appearance during the 
play.—Shakespeare, Widswnmer Might's 
Dream (1592). 


Snow King (The), Gustavus Adol- 
ohus of Sweden, king of Sweden, killed 
in the Thirty Years’ War, atthe battle of 
Lutzen. The cabinet of Vienna said, in 
derision of him, “The Snow King is 
come, but he can live only in the north, 
and will melt away as soon as he feels 
the sun” (1594, 1611-1632), 

At Vienne be was called in deraion, “ The Boow King.” 
eho was kept together by the cokl, bot would melt and 
dhapprar aa be approaches) 6 warmer soll —Dr, Crichton, 
Soundivaria |“ liatarus Adolphus,” LL G1). 

Sano Aing (The), Frederick elector 
palatine, made king of Dohemia by the 
protestants in the autumn of 1619, but 
defeated and set aside in the following 
autumno. . 

The winter bing, king In Umes of frost, a mow king, 
aliogetier swluble in the opring. ob the tame whieh 
Frodarick obiaiis lo Geran Bishories. — Carly le. 

Snow Kingdom (Tic), Inistore, 
the Urkney Islands. 

Let po Peseel of the kingdom of snow | Nerway) boond 
on the dark-rulling waves of loistiine—lealan, Fimpal, L 

Snow Queen (Jr), Christiana 
queen of Sweden (1626, 1633-1659). 

The princess Klizabeth of England, 
who married Frederick V. elector pala- 
tine, in 16135, and induced him to accept 
the crown of bohemia in 1619. She was 
crowned with her husband October 25, 
1619, but fed in November, 1620, and was 
ut under the ban of the empire in 1621. 
Elizaleth was queen of Bohemia during 
the time of snow, but was melted by the 
heat of the ensuing summer, 


Snowdonia (Jie «ing of), Moel-y- 
Wrvrddfs (‘*the conspicuous peak"), the 
highest peak in Snowdonia, being 3571 
feet abwve the sea-level. 

Snubbin (Serjeant), retained by Mr. 
Perker fur the defence in the famons 
sase of ‘“‘Bardell co. Pickwick.” His 
clerk was named Mallard, and bis junior 
Phunky, “‘ an infant barrister," very much 
lugked down upon by his senior.—C, 
Dickens, Tie Pickwick Papers (1836). 

Snuffim (Sir Jumley), the doctor who 
attends Mrs. Wititterly.—C. Dickens, 
Niclas Nicklevy (loah). 

SBnuffle (Sin), the sexton of Gar- 
ratt, aud one of the curporation. lle was 
called « “‘ ecuollard, fur he conld read a 
written hand."—5. Foote, Mayor of Gar- 
rati, ii. 1 (1768). 





SOFRONTA. 


Snug, the joiner, who takes part in the 
‘‘lamentable comedy” of Pyramus and 
Thishe, played before the duke and duchess 
of Athens ‘‘on their wedding day at 
night.” His ré/e was the * lion’s part.” 
He asked the manager (Peter Quince) if 
be had the “lion's part written out, for,” 
said he, “* lam slow of memory ;” but being 


told be could do it extempore, ‘‘ for it 


was nothing but roaring,” he consented to 
undertake it.—Shakespeare, A Midsummer 
Nugit's Dream (1592). 


Soane Museum (The), the museam 
collected by sir Johm Soane, architect, and 
preserved on its original site, No. 13, Lin- 
coln's Inn Fields, the private residence of 
the founder (1753-1887). 


Sobri'no, one of the moet valiant of 
the Saracen army, and called ‘‘ The Sage.” 


He counselled Agrimant to entrust the 


fate of the war to a single combat, stipu- 
lating that the nation whose champion was 
worsted should be tributary to the other. 
Royéro was chosen for the n cham- 
pion, and Kinaldo forthe Christian army ; 
bal when Rogero was overthrown, Agra- 
mant bruke the compact. Sobrino was 
greatly displeased, and soon afterwards 
received the rite of Christian baptism.— 
Ariosto, Urianay Furwso (1516). ; 

Who more prudent than Sobrino?—Cervantes, Don 
Quizete (16us). 


Boe’ratis (Tie English). Dr. Johnson 


is so called by Boswell (1709-1784). 


Mr. Sowth's amiable manoers and attachment to our 
Eocriits af omew united me to him.—Lé/e ef Johnson 
(ava) 

Sodom of India, Hy’derabad. So 
called from the beauty of the country and 
the depravity of the inhabitants. 


Sodor and Man. Sodor is a con- 
traction of Sodorensis. The sudur-eys3 or 
sulur-cys meaus ‘the southern isles.” The 
bishop of Soder and Man is bishop of 
Man and the southern isles. 


Sofronia, a young Christian of Jeru- 
ealem, the heroine of an episode in Tasso's 
Jerusalem Delivered Sees The tale is 
thia: Aladine king of Jerusalem stole 
from a Christian church an image of the 
Virgin, being told by a magician that it 
was a palladium, and, if set up in a mosque, 
the Virnnn would forsake the Christian 
army, and favourthe Mohammedan. The 
iniage was accordingly set upin a mosque, 
but during the night was carried off b 
eome one. Aladine, greatly en 
ordered the instant execution of all his 
Christian subjecta, bat, to prevent this 


—_ 


ordered the temple to be opened, and the 
idols to be cleansed. Three Christians, 
inflamed with Christian zeal, went by 
night and breke all the images. The 
governor, unable to discover the culprits, 
commanded all the Christians of Merum 
to be put to death; but the three who 
had been guilty of the act confessed their 
offence, and were executed.—Sucratcs, 
Ecclesiastical Histury, iii, 15 (A.p. 439). 
(See SOPHEONIA.) 


Softer Adams of your Academe, 


echoolgirls.—Tennyson, Zhe J’rincess, ii. 


Soham, a monster with the head of a 
horse, four eyes, and the body of a fiery 
dragon. (See OURANABAD.) 


Soho (London). The tradition is that 
this ayuare was so called from the watch- 
word of the duke of Monmouth at the 
battle of Sedgemoor, in 16%5. The re- 
verse of this may possibly be true, viz., 
that the duke selected the watchword 
from the name of the locality in which 
he lived ; but the name of the place cer- 
tainly existed in 1632, if not earlier. 

Soi-méme. St. Soi-mémne, the “na- 
tural man,” in opposition to the “ spiritual 
man.” In almost all religious acts and 
feelings, a thread of self may be detected, 
and many things are done ostensibly for 
God, but in reality for St. Soi-méme. 

They attended the church service not altoxether without 
vegard to Bt. Sui-méme.—Asy'umm CAristi, iL 

Soldan (Zhe), Philip IH. of Spain, 
whose wife was Adicia (or papal bujutry). 

Tadae —~ .. .01 


Princo Avthuse annt tha n-- 








SOLINGEN. 





Jennens, who composed the libretto for | 


Handel's Messiah (*-1773). 
Solingen, called ‘“‘The Sheffield of 


Germany ;" famous for swords and foils. 


Soli'nus, duke of Ephesus, who was 
obliged to pass the sentence of the law on 
#ve'on, a merchant, because, being a 
Svracusian, he had dared to set foot in 
Ephesus, When, however, he discovered 
that the man who had saved hia life, and 
whom he beat loved, was the son of 
-Eyeon, the prisoner was releaged, and 
settled in Ephesus.—Shakespeare, Comedy 
ay Errors (1593), 


Sologne, in France. Thereisalegend 
that all domestic animals, such as dogs, 
cats, pigs, horses, cows, ete., in Soloyne, 


become possessed of human speech from | 


the midnight of Christmas Eve to the mid- 
day of December 23. 


Solomon, an epic poem in three 
books, by Prior (1718). Hk. i. Solomon 
eceka happiness from wisdom, but comes 
to the conclusion that ** All ts vanity ;" 
this book is entitled Anowledje, Lik. wi, 
Soloman seeks happiness im wealth, 
erandeur, luxury, and ungodliness, bat 
evmes to the conclusion that “All is 
vanity and vexation of sypirt;” 
book is entitled /Yeasure, Uk, ii., en- 
titled Juuer, consists of the reflections of 
Sclonoen upon human life, the power of 


(aud, life, death, and a future Biante. An | 
angul reveals to him the future lot of the | 
Jewish race, aud Solomon concludes with | 


this petition : 
Ketone, Great Father, Thy Instrorcied son, 
And in my act may Thy great will le dome | 
Swomen is called king of the ginn and 
taines, This is probably a mere blunder. 
‘The monarchs of these spirits was called 
*suleyman,” and this title of rank has 
Leen uiistaken for a proper name. 
SHomon ded stundia;. Solomon em- 
pare the cenii in building the Temple, 
mit, perceiving that his end was at hand, 
proved God that his death might be 
eonvealed from the genii till the work 
was completed. Accordingly, he died 
standing, 
prover. The venii, supposing him to be 
alive, toiled on, and when the Temple was 


fully built, a worm pnawed the staff, and | 


the corpse fell prostrate to the earth. 
Mahomet refers to this as a fact: 

When We |ifct| lind dercread that Boloman should dle, 
Bothliig dimers! fila deh wintes Che | fle grea) meunegil 
the creeping thing uf the earth, which gnawed bis 
Aral wien hie |dead) bexiy fell down, ja aig (eli ex lyr 
pervelved tha: Wf they lad kouwwn thal is eocrel, 


this | 


leaning on hia staff os if in | 








SOLOMON. 





= “a ) : - = 
Tp haa lg a contioue! in a vile ponishment— 

Solomon's Favourite Wife. Prior, ix 
his epic poem called Su/omon (bk. ti.), 
makes Abra the favourite. 

The apples she had gathered emelt nuost mwest ; 

The coke the kneel one the @voury meat j 

AN fruits their odour lost and ments thalr taste 

If gentle Abra had mot decked the feast 

Itahonoured did the sparkling goblet stand, 

Union recalvel from gentle Abra’s hand ; ‘ 

Kor could my aul approves the munca Lane, 

Till all was hushed, and Abra sang ilona 

Al Beidawi, Jallalo’ddin, and Abalf 
five Ainina, daughter of Jerida king o' 

yre, a8 his favourite concubine, 

Suomon Ailla fis Horses. Solomon 
bought a thousand horses, and went to exa- 
minethem. The examination took him the 
whole day, so that be omitted the prayers 
which he ought to have repeated, This 
neglect came into his mind at sunset, and, 
by way of atonement, he slew all the 
horses except a hundred of the best “as 
an offering to God ;" and God, to make 
him amends for his loss, gave him the 
dominion of the winds. Mahomet refers 
to this in the following ets — 

When the harses, hapdlbe: 60 feet, mapel ling 
the gremal with the eige of the =. foot, swift in the 
cour, Tere mi in it before him | tales in the 
ee mid, ““ Verily [ have lowed the lore of earthiy 
Ped | Ww? the remewbrance of my Lord: aod | hove 
apent the ime in viewing thes horse ti till | 
hhbden by tie wellof night Bring the horses herk unio 
ome.” Aiee) arber were brought hark, be ia 
cul off thetr len and Uieir peotke —Al Korda, Lary 

Solomon's Mode of Travelling, Solomon 
had a carpet of green silk, on which 
his throne was placed, This carpet was 
large enough for all his army to stand on, 
When his soldiers had stationed them- 
selves on his right hand, and the spirits 
on his left, Solomon commanded the 
winds to convey him whither he listed. 
Whereupon the winds buoyed up the 
carpet, and transported tt to the place the 
king wished to go to, and while passing 
thus through the air, the birds of heaven 
hovered overhead, forming a canopy with 
their wings to ward off the heat of the 
sun, Mahomet takes this legend os an 
historic fact, for he says in reference to 
it: 

Dots Gokenon We subjected the 
al bh ommand io the lend whereon 
mr biewlog —ij! Aorin, axl 

And again: 

We made tha wind eolject “—, and i mn cenily ad 
bh command whiihenmower be dairnel—Ai Acrin, 
Exuvill. 

Solomon's Signet-Ring. The rabbins 
say that Solomon wore a ring in which 
was set a chased stone that told him 
everything he wished to know. 

Solomon Loses His eum 7 Si los 


ind, and |i ren 
6 had bento 








SOLYMAN. 981 





‘’ David,” and London ‘ Jerusalem,” the 
London rebels are called ‘‘ the Solymsan 
rout” or the rabble of Jerusalem. 


The Solymaean rout, well versed of old, 

In godly faction, and in treason bold, .. . 

Saw with disdain an Ethnic plot (pepish plot) begun, 

And scorned by Jebusites [ pasists} to be ou 

Dryden, A bealom and Achitephel, 1. (1681). 

Sol'yman, king of the Saracens, 
whose capital was Nice. Being driven 
from his kingdom, he fled to Egypt, and 
was there appointed leader of the Arabe 
(bk. ix.). Solyman and Argantés were 
by far the most doughty of the pogan 
knights. The former was slain by Rinal- 
do (bk. xx.), and the latter by Tancred. 
—Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered (1575). 


Sombragloomy, London, the in- 
habitants of which are Sombragloomians. 


Somnambulus. Sir W. Scott so 
signs The Visionary (political satires, 
1819).—Olphar Hamst [Ralph Thomas], 
Hundbook of Fictitious Names. 


Bomo Sala (Like the father of), a 
dreamer of air-castles, like the milkmaid 
Perrette in Lafontaine. (See Count xor, 
ate.) 


Son of Be’lial (A), a wicked person, 
a rebel, an infidel. 


Now the eons of Ell were sons of Bellal; they knew not 
(Le. achnowledyed not) the Lonl.—1 Sam. iL 1% 


Son of Consolation, St. Barnabas 
of Cyprus (first century ).—Acts iv. 86. 


Son of Perdition (The), Judas 
Iscariot.—JoAn xvii. 12. 
P Sun of Perdition, Antichrist.—2 Thess. 
i. 3. 


Son of a Star (The), Barcochebas 
or Barchochab, who gave himself out to 
be the ‘‘star” predicted by Balaam (died 
A.D, 135). 

There shall come a Star out of Jacob, and a Sceptre 
shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of 
Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheth. — ums, 

Son of the Last Man. Charles II. 
was so called by the parliamentarians, 
His father Charles I. was called by them 
‘*The Last Man.” 


Son of the Rock, echo. 
She went She called on Armar. Nought answered 
wut the sun of the ruck.—Onssian, The Songs of Selma. 


Sons of Phidias, sculptors. 


Sons of Thunder or Soanerges 
James and John, sons of Zebedce.— Mark 
iii. 17. 

Bong. The Futher of Modern French 
Songs, C. F. Panard (1691-1765). 


SOPHIA. 


. What! all this for a song? Se 
said William Cecil lord Burghley when 
queen Elizabeth ordered him to give 
‘dmund Spenser £100 as an expression 
of her pleasure at some verses he had 
presented to her. When a pension of 
£50 a year was settled on the poet, lord 
Barghley did all in his power to oppose 
the grant. To this Spenser alludes in the 
lines following :— 
oO of griefs! O gall of all good hearts! 
despised be 





‘o see that virtue should 
SM him that first was raised for virtuous parts ; 
And now, broad-spread! 
Lets none shoot up tbat him 
Ob let the man of whom the Muse is 
Alive nor dead be of the Muse adorned ! 
Spenser, The Ruins of Time (1591). 

Sonnam’bula (fa), Ami’na the 
miller’s daughter. She was betrothed 
to Elvi’no a rich young farmer, but the 
night before the wedding was discovered 
in the bed of conte Rodulpho. This ver 
ugly circumstance made the farmer brea 
off the match, and promise marriage to 
Lisa the innkeeper’s daughter. The 
count now interfered, and assured Elvino 
that the miller's daughter was a sleep- 
walker, and while they were still talking 
she was seen walking on the edge of the 
mill-roof while the huge mill-wheel was 
turning rapidly. She then crossed a 
crazy old bridge, and came into the midst 
of the assembly, when she woke and rap 
to the arms of her lover. Elvino, con- 
vinced of her innocence, married her, and 
Lisa was resigned to Alessio whose para- 
mour she was.—Bellini’s opera, La Son- 
nambula (1831). 

(Taken from a melodrama by Ro- 
mani, and adapted as a libretto by 
Scribe.) 


Sooterkin, a false birth, as when a 
woman gives birth to a rat, dog, or other 
monstrosity. This birth is said to be 
produced by Dutch women, from their 
sitting over their fuot-stoves. 


Soper’s Lane (London), now callea 
*“ Queen Strect.” 


Sophi, in Arabic, means “pure,” and 
therefore one of the pure or true faith. 
As a royal title, it is tantamount to 
‘‘catholic " or ‘‘ most Christian.”—Selden, 
Titles of Honour, vi. 76-7 (1614). 


Sophi’a, mother of Rollo and Oth 
dukes of Normandy. Rollo is the 
“bloody 
Fletcher, Zhe Bloody Brother (1639). 


hia, wife of Mathias a Bohemian 
knight. When Mathias went to take 
service with king Ladislaus of Bohemia, 


ng like an tree, 
ted be. 


brother.” — Beaumont and .- 








SOREL. 


988 SOVEREIGNS OF ENGLAND. 





On seeing Virgil, Sordelloeprings forward 
to embrace him. 

*.* KR. Browning has a poem called 
Sordelio, and makes Sordello typical of 
liberty and human perfectibility. 


Sorel (Agnes), surnamed La dame de 
Beauté, not from ber personal beauty, 
but from the ‘‘chiiteau de HKeaute,” on 
the banks of the Mare, given to her by 
Charles VI1. (1409-1450), 


Sorento (in Naples), the birthplace 
of Twrquato Tasso, the Italian poet, 


Sorrows of Werther, « mawkish, 
sentimental novel by Goethe (1774), once 
extremely popolar. “‘Werther" is Goethe 
himself, i loves a marned woman, and 
becomes disgusted with life becanse 
* (Char]lotte is the wife of his friend 
Kestner,” 

Werther, Inforneg itelf nts the core and whole eplrit of 
Dterature, gave birth to a mice of sentinenitalie, who 
race! ay) wolled in every pert of Le work OL) better 
Hgeht daw on them, of at any mote Uill culated 
matiire lak) iieglf to sheep, and it wm reread Uist 
lamenting man unpreluctive bhvor,—Carlyle, 

Sosia (in Molitre Sue), the slave of 
Amphitryon. When Mercury assumes 
the form of Sosia, and Jupiter that of 
Amphitryon, the mistakes and confusion 
which anse resemble those of the brothers 
Antiph'olus and their servants the 
brothers Dromio, in Shakespeare's Gomedy 
of Arrors.—Plautua, Molitre (1668), and 
Dryden (1690), Amphitryon, 


Hike first nume. .. beck ouf opon him ite another 
fois or oe if aman should maldan! 
dojiicate.—C, Lamb, 


Soasii, brothers, the name of two book- | 


sellers at Rome, referred to by Horace. 
Bo'tenville (Jfon. le baron de), 

father of Angélique, and father-in-law 

of George Dundin. His wife was of the 


house of Prudoterie, and both boasted | 


that in S00 vears no one of their dis- 
tinguished lines ever awerved from 
virtue, “La bravoure n'y est pas plus 
heréditaire aux miles, que In chasteté 
aux familles." They lived with their 
son-in-law, who was allowed the honour 
of paving their debts, and receiving a 
snubbing every time he opened his mouth 


that he might be taught the mysteries of | George II., George LII., George Iv. 


the Aant monde.—Moliere, George Dan- 
dim (1668). 

Soulis (Lord Willimm), a man of 
prodiious strength, cruelty, avarice, and 
treachery. Old Hedeap gave him oa 
charmed life, which nothing could affect 
“ill threefold ropes of sand were 
twisted round hia body." Lord Soulis 


ly enonter bi cnn 





wayvlaid May the lady-love of the heir 
of Branxholm, and kept her in durance 
till she promised to become his bride, 
Walter, the brother of the young heir 
raised his father's lie~emen and inves 
the castle. Lord Soulis having fallen 
into the hands of the liegemen, “' they 
wrapped him in lead, and flung him into 
a caldron, till lead, bones, and all were 
melted."—John Leyden (1802), 

(The caldron is still shown in the 
Skelfhill at Ninestane Rig, part -of the 
range of hills which separates Liddesdale 
and Teviotdale.) 


South (Syuire), the archduke Charles 
of Austria,—Arbuthnot, History of Jovi 


| Bull (1712). 


South Britain, all the island of 


Great Britain except Scotland, which is 


ealled ** North Britain.” 


South Sea (The), the Pacific Ocean 5 
so called by Vasco Nufiez de Balboa, in 
1513. (See Mississirri Bupnce, p. 647.) 


Southampton (The ear! of), the 
friend of the carl of Essex, and involved 
with him in the charge of treason, but 
pardoned.—Henry Jones, The ari of 
Essex (1745). 


Sovereigns of England (Mortual 
Days of the). 

Sunpay: six, viz., Henry I, Ed- 
ward I1I., James 1., William III,., Anne, 
George I. 

Monpar: six, viz., Stephen, Henry TV., 
Henry V., Richard III, Elizabeth, Mary 
I]. (Richard I]. depose.) 

Teespar: four, viz., Richard L., 
Charles 1., Charles I]., William IV. 
(Edward II. resijned, and James II. ab 
dicated.) 
 Wepyvespar;: four, viz., John, Henry 
Iil., Edward IV., Edward V. (Henry 
VI. deposed. ) 

THurspay: five, viz., William 1, 
William I]., Henry IJ., Edward VI., 
Mary I. 
three, Edward I., 


FRIpaY: Videy 


| Henry VIIT., Cromwell, 


Satcrpayr: four, viz., Henry VIL, 


That is, 6 Sunday and Monday ; 
Thursday ; 4 Tuesday, Wednesday, and 
Saturday ; and 8 Friday. 
ae Angas 1 (Ohi Btyle), August 13 (New Styria), 

Cusnim a1. January 30, 1648-9; CHARLES II. Feb. 
rusry 6, | } CoomweLk diel Keptember 3, 16 
burnt at Tyburn, January $0, |i. he, 
Kowaep |. July 7, 07; Eowane [1 June 
LET; Epwasp lV ., April 0, 1463; Epwamp V., Jum 





SPANISH CURATE. 





935 


SPARTAN DOQQ. 





carry out his threat ;"’ and so saying, he 
tosecd his dagger over the wall. Juan, 
unable to appreciate this patriotism, slew 
the young man without remorse. ~ 

*,* Lopé de Vega has dramatized this 
incident. 


Spanish Curate (The), Lopez.— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, The Spanish 
Curate (1622). 


Spanish Fryar (7he), a drama by 
Dryden (1680). It contains two plots, 
wholly independent of each other. The 
serious element is this: Leonora, the 
usurping queen of Aragon, is promised 
in marriage to duke Hertran, a prince of 
the blood ; but is in love with Torrismond 
general of the army, who turns out to be 
the son and heir of king Sancho, supposed 
to be dead. Sancho is restored to his 
throne, and Leonora marries Torrismond. 
The comic element is the illicit love of 
colonel Lorenzo for Elvira, the wife of 
Gomez a rich old banker. Dominick (the 
Spanish fryar) helps on this scandalous 
amour, but it turns out that Lorenzo and 
Elvira are brother and sister. 


Spanish Lady (7%e), a ballad con- 
tained in Percy's Aeliques, ii. 23. A 
Spanisb lady fell in love with captain 
Popham, whose prisoner she was. A 
command being sent to set all the pri- 
soners free, the lady prayed the gallant 
captain to make her his wife. The 
Englishman replied that he could not 
do so, as he was married already. On 
hearing this, the Spanish lady gave him 
a chain of gold and a pearl bracelet to 
take to his wife, and told him that she 
should retire to a nunnery and spend the 
rest of her life praying for their happiness. 

It will be stuck up with the ballad of Margaret's Ghoet 
(¢g.e.} and the S;-anish Lady, against the walls of every 
cottage in the country.—lesac Bickerstaff, Love in «a 
Village (1763). 

Spanish Main (Tic), the coast 
alony the north part of South America. 

A parrot from the Spanish malt mapball 

Spanish y (The), by T, 
Kyd (1597). Horatio (son of Hieronimo) 
is murdered while he is sitting in an 
arbour with Belimperia. Balthazar, the 
rival of Horatio, commits the murder, 
wsisted by Belimperia’s brother Lorenzo. 
Ihe murderers hang the dead body on a 
tree in the garden, where Hieronimo, 
roused by the cries of Belimperia, dis- 
covers it, and goes raving mad. 

Spanker (Lady Gay), in London As- 
surance, by D. Boucicault (1841). 


will never be dropped out of the list 
never 
Percy Fitzgerald. 
Sparabel’la, a shepherdess in love 
with D’Urfey, but D’Urfey loves Clum’- 
silis, ‘‘the fairest shepherd wooed the 
foulest lass.” Sparabella resolves to kill 
herself ; but how? Shall she cut her 
windpipe with a penknife? ‘‘ No,” she 
says, ‘‘ squeaking piss die so.” Shall 
she suspend herself to a tree? ‘‘ No,” 
she says, ‘‘dogs die in that fashion.” 
Shall she drown herself in the pool? 
‘*No,” she says, ‘scolding queans die 
so.” And while in doubt how to kill 
herself, the sun goes down, and 
The prudent maiden deemed it then too late, 
And till to-morrow came deferred ber fate. 
Gay, Pasteral, ili. (1714). 
Sparkish, ‘the prince of coxcombs,” 
a fashionable fool, and ‘‘a cuckold before 
marriage.” Sparkish is engaged to 
Alithéa Mocdy, but introduces to her 
his friend Harcourt, allows him to make 
love to her before his face, and, of course, 
is jilted.— The Country Girl (Garrick, 
altered from Wycherly’s Country Wife, 
1675). 
William Mountford (1690-1692) Sourished In days when 
i Nat Lee and the Jingling plays of 
Dryden . . heh possession of the stage. most 
ex by 


Lee} and "‘Castallo,” in the Orphan [by Orwey) 
highly commends his °° Sparkish.”—Dutton 


Sparkler (Edmund), son of Mrs. 
Merdle by her first husband. He marriec 
Fanny, sister of Little Dorrit. Edmuané 
Sparkler was a very large man, callec 
in his own iment, ‘* Quinbus Flestrin, 
junior, or the Young Man-Mountain.” 

Mrs. Sparkler, Edmund's wife. She was 
very pretty, very self-willed, and snubbed 
her husband in most approved fashion.— 
C. Dickens, Little Dorrit (1857). 

Sparsit (4frs.), housekeeper to Josiah 
Bounderby, banker and mill-owner at 
Coketown. Mrs. Sparsit is a ‘highly 
connected lady,” being the great-niece of 
lady Scadgers. She had a “ Coriolanian 
nose, and dense black eyebrows,” was 
much believed in by her master, who, 
when he married, made her “keeper of 
the bank.” Mrs. Sparsit, in collusion 
with the light porter Bitzer, then acted 
the spy on Mr. Bounderby and his young 
wife.—C. Dickens, Hard Times (18654). 


Spartan Broth, sorry fare. 

Ural a pacedesi nhtetear iy, sesind a ial ard 
broth in Lescester Square. — Duily News, February 95, 1978 
Spartan Dog (4), a bloodhound. 
More fall than anguish. inane af ‘the sea! 
Shakespeare, ‘ 


Oshetio, act v. on. 8 (1613). 


lady Gay Spanker ‘act themselves,” and 
of acting playa— 





SPEED. 





honourable secretary of state has con- 
ceived thrice, and brought forth nothing.” 

CAMPRELL (Thomas) once tried to make 
a speech, but so stuttered and stammered 
that the whole table was convulsed with 
laughter. 

Cicrnxo, the great orator, never got over 
his nervous terror till he warmed to his 
subject. 

Irvine (Washington), even with a 
speech written out and laid before him, 
could not deliver it without a breakdown. 
In fact, he could hardly utter a word in 
public without trembling. 

Moore (Zhomas) could never make a 
speech. 

(Dickens and prince Albert always 
spoke well and fluently.) 


Speed, an inveterate punster and the 
clownish servant of Valentine one of the 
two ‘ gentlemen of Verona.”—Shake- 
speare, [he To Gentlemen of Verona(1594). 


Speed the Parting Guest. 
Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest. 
Pope, Homer's Odyssey (1725). 

Speed the Plough, a comedy by 
Thomas Morton (1798). Farmer Ash- 
field brings up a boy named Henry, 
greatly beloved by every one. This Henry 
is in reality the son of ‘ Morrington,” 
younger brother of sir Philip Blandford. 

he two brothers fixed their love on the 
same lady, but the younger married her, 
whereupon sir Philip stabbed him to the 
heart and fully thought him to be dead, 
but after twenty vears the wounded man 
re-appeared and claimed his son. Henry 
marries his cousin Emma _ Blandford ; 
and the farmer's daughter, Susan, marries 
Robert only son of sir Abel Handy. 


.B8penlow (4fr.), father of Dora 
(9.¢.). He was a proctor, to whom David 

opperfield was articled. Mr. Spenlow 
was killed in a carriage accident. 

Misses Lavinia and Clarissa Spenlow, 
two spinster aunts of Dora Spenlow, with 
whom she lived at the death of her father. 

They were not anlike birds altogether, having a sharp, 
brisk, sudden manner, and a little, short, spruce way of 
adjusting them«elvee, like canaries. —C. Dickens, David 
Copperfield, ul. (1549). 

Spens (Sir Patrick), a Scotch hero, 
sent in the winter-time on a mission to 
Norway. His ship, in its home passage, 
was wrecked against the Papa Stronsay, 
and every one on board was lost. e 
incident has furnished the subject of a 
fainous old Scotch ballad. 


Spenser. The Spenser of English Prose 
Writers, Jeremy Taylor (1618-1667). 
40 


937 SPINDLE. 


Spenser. From to Fiecknoe 
that is, from the top to the Lottom of all 
poetry ; from the sublime to the ridi- 
culous.— Dryden, Comment on Spenser, etc. 


Spenser’s Monument, in West- 
minster Abbey, was erected by Anne Clif- 
ford countess of Dorset. 


Spider Cure for Fever (4). 
Only beware of the fever, my friends, beware of the feve:, 
For it is not, like that of our cold Acadian climate, 
Cured by the wearing a spider hung round one's neck ina 

™ Longfellow, Feangeline, il. 8 (1849). 

Spiders (Unlucky to kill). This 
especially refers to those small spiders 
called ‘‘money-spinners,” which prog- 
nosticate good luck. Probably because 
they appear in greater numbers on a fine 
morning ; although some say the fine day 
is the precursor of rain. ° 


Sprnners ben token of divynation, and of knowing what 
we shal fal, for oft by weders that shal fal some spin 
and weve higher and lower. and multytude of spynners 
ever betoken moche reyne.—Berthelet, De Proprictatibus 
Rerwm, rviil. 314 (1536). 

Spiders Indicators of Gold. In 
the sixteenth century it was generally 
said that ‘‘ Spiders be true signs of great 
stores of gold;" and the proverb arose 
thus: While a passage to Cathay was bein 
sought by the north-west, a man brought 
home a stone, which was pronounced to 
be gold, and caused such a ferment that 
several vessels were fitted out for the 
express purpose of collecting gold. Fro- 
bisher, in 1577, found, in one of the islands 
on which he landed, similar stones, and 
an enormous number of spiders. 


Spider’s Net (A). When Mahomet 
fled from Mecca, he hid in a cave, and a 
spider wove its net over the entrance. 

‘hen the Koreishites came thither, they 

on, being fully persuaded that no 
one had entered the cave, because the cob- 
web was not broken. 

In the Zalmud, we are told that Davi 
in his flight, hid himself in the cave 
Adullam, and a spider spun its net over the 
opening. When Sau] came up and saw 
the cobweb, he passed on, under the same 
persuasion. 


Spidireen (The). Ifasailor is asked 
to what ship he belongs, and does not 
choose to tell, he says, ‘‘ The spidireen 
frigate with nine decks.” 

fficers who do not choose to tell their 
uarters, give B.K.S. as their address, 
t.¢. BarracKS. 


Spindle (Jack), the son of a man of 
fortune, Having wasted his money in 
riotous living, he went to a friend to 


7 ee t+ 


_~ wavey ous Good morning, Mr. 
Spindle ; delighted to see you! Tom, see 
the gentleman down.”—Goldsmith, The 
Bee, iii. (1759). 


Spirit of the Cape (Th-), Ada- 
mastor, a hideous phantom, of unearthly 
pallor, ‘erect his hair uprose of withered 
red,” his lips were black, his teeth blue 
and disjointed, his beard haggard, his 
face scarred by lightning, his eyes ‘ shot 
livid fire,” his voice roared. The sailors 
trembled at the sight of him, and the tiend 
demanded how they dared to trespass 
‘‘where never hero braved his rage 
before?” He then told them “that every 
year the shipwrecked should be made to 
deplore their foolhardiness.” According 
to to, the ‘‘ Spirit of the Cape,” was 
one of the giants who stormed heaven. 
—Camoens, The Lusiad (1572). 

In me the Spirit of the Cape behold . . . 

That rock by you the © Cupre «wf Tem “ named... 

With wide-stretched piles I guard . . . 

Great Adamastor is my dreaded name. 

Canto v. 

Spirit of the Mountain (7c), 
that peculiar melancholy sound which pre- 
cedes a heavy stormn, very observable in 
hilly and mountainous countries. 

The wind was abriad in the oaks. The Spirit :f the 
Mountain roared. The blast came rustling through the 
ha:l.—Owan, Lar-Tien!'a. 

Spiri’to, the Holy Ghost as the friend 
of man, peteenitied in canto ix. of Zhe 
Purp'e [shauud, by Phineas Fletcher (1633). 
lie was magrricu to Urania, and their otf- 
spring are: Knowledge, Contemplation, 
Care, liumility, Obedience, Feist 








SPORTS. 


939 


SPURS OF GOLD. 





VIII. asks Cranmer to be godfather to 
“a fair young maid,"’ Cranmer replies, 
“How may | deserve such honour, that 
am a poor and humble subject?" The 
king rejoins, “Come, come, wy lord, 

ou'd spare your spoons,"'"—Shakespeare, 
Weary FITT net Spies 2 (1601). 


Sporus. Under this name, Pope 
satirized lord John Hervey, generally 
called ‘‘lord Fanny,” from his effeminate 
habits and appearance. He was “ half 


wit, half fool, half man, half beau.” | 


Lord John Hervey was vice-chamberlain 
in 17%6, and lord privy seal in 1740, 
That thing of ell, 
Bporus, that mere while curd of soes’ milk; 
Satire oF, cen, oleae! can Bporus feel, 
Who breaks o butterfly opoo oa wheel T 
A. Pops, Prologua fe Die Sofires (17M), 

*.* This lord John Ilervey married 
the beautiful Molly Lapel; hence Pope 
ave: 

Bo perfect a bean ace 2 belle 
As when Hervey the handsome waa wedded 
To tie bemniifol Molly Lapel. 

8. P. Q. R., the Romans, The letters 
are the initials of Senutws Populus-Que 
Aomanis, 

New bhes! must be porped Into the velo and arteries 
of the FE. P.Q. RG. A. Bala (felgraeta, April, LAT), 

Sprackling (JusepA), a money-lender 
anid a self-inode man, 

Thomas Spracktiny, his brother, and equal 
in roguery.—Wybert Reeve, J'arted, 


Sprat Day, November 9, the first 
day of sprat-selling in the strecta. The 
geasin lasts about ten weeks. 


Sprenger (/vuis), Annette Veilchen's 
bachelor.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of Ceier- 
stein (time, Edward 1V,). 


Sprightly (Miss Aitty), the ward of 
gir Gilbert Pumpkin of Strawberry Hall. 
Miss Kitty isa great heiress, but stage- 
struck, and when captain Charles Stanley 
ia introduced, ahe falls in love with him, 
firat naa “play actor," and then in reality. 
—I, Jackman, All the World's a Staye. 


Spring (A Swurd), The ancient 
Salines, in times of yreat national danger, 
vowed to the pels “a sacred spring" 
(ter sacrwin), if they would remove the 
danger. ‘That is, all the children born 
during the next spring were “ beld 
ancril,” aud at the age of 20 were com- 
pelled to leave their country and seek for 
themselves a new home, 

Apruvj. (Sce SEASONS.) 


Spring-Heel Jack. The marquis of 
Waterfurd, in the early parts of the nine- 
teenth century, used to amuse himself by 


| of Thuringia was so called, 


Guinnegate, in 





springing on travellers unawares, toterrify 
them; and from time to time othera have 
followed his ally example, Even so late 
as 1877-4, an officer in her majesty’s ser- 
vice caused much excitement in the 
garrisons stationed at Aldershot, Col- 
chester, and elsewhere, by his  spring- 
heel" pranks. In Chichester and its 
neighbourhood the tales told of this 
adventurer cansed quite om little panic, 
and many nervous people were afraid to 
venture out after sunset, for fear of bein 
“sprung” opon. I myself investigat 
some of the cases reported to me, but 
found them for the most part Fakenham 
ghost tales, 


Springer (Zi¢). Ludwig Margrave 
use he 
escaped from Giebichenstein, in the 
eleventh century, by leaping over the 
river Saale, 


Sprinklers (Holy Water), Danish 
cere, with spiked balls fastened to 
coals. 


Spruce, M.C. i tain), in Lend Me 
Fite Shillinga, by J. M. Morton (1764- 
1835). 

Spruch-Sprecher (Tic) or "‘ sayer 
of sayings” to the archduke of Austria, 
—Sir W. Scott, The Talisman (time, 
Richard [.). 

Spuma'dor, prince Arthur's horse, 
So called from the foam of its mouth, 
which indicated its fiery temper.— 
Spenser, Fury Queen, ii. (1590). 

*." In the Mabinoyion, his favourite 
mare is called Llamrei (‘‘ the curveter”), 


Bpurs (The oattle of), the battle of 
1513, between Henry 
VIII. and the duc de Longueville, So 
called because the French used their 
#purs in flight more than their swords in 
light. (See Spurs or Gon, ete.) 


Spurs (To dish up the), to give one's 
guests a hint to go; to maunder on when 
the orator has nothing of importance ta 
say. During the time of the border feuda, 
when a great family had come to an end 
of their provisions, the lady of the house 
sent to table a dish of spurs, as a hint 
that the guests must spur their horses on 
for fresh raids before they could be 


| feasted again. 


When the inst bullock wee killed and devoured, li was 
the lady's costom to place on the table a dish which, an 
being anoowered, wae found to contain a pelr of clean 
—_pore—o hiot to the riders that they muwt shift for the 
bert esl —Jorder Minaefrelay (new olit), L DL) neta. 


Spurs of Gold (Jattle of the), the 








SQUOD. 


(Pope wrote Zhe Rape of the Lock, 
£712.) 

Squod (PAil),a grotesque little fellow, 
faithfully attached to Mr. George the 
gon of Mrs. Rouncewell (housekeeper at 
Chesney Wold). (George had rescued the 
little street arab from the gutter, and 
the boy lived at George’s ‘Shooting 
Gallery” in Leicester Square (London). 
Phil was remarkable for limping along 
sideways, as if ‘‘ tacking.”—C, Dickens, 
Bleak House (1852). 


8. §., souvenance, forget-me-not, in 
remembrance, a soutenir. 

On the Wednesday preceding Easter Day. 1465, as ofr 
Anthony was speaking to his royal aister, on his knees, 
all the ladies of the court gathered round him, and boand 
to his left knee a band of gold. adorned with stones 
fashioned Into the letters & 3. (soweenunce of remem 
branece), and to this hand was suspended an enamelled 
** forget-me-not.”—- Lord Lyttan, Last of the Barona, 
fv. 5 (1849). 

8.8. G. G., the letters of the Fem- 
gerichte. They stand for Stock, Stein, 
Gras, Grein (* Stick,” *‘Stone,” ‘‘Grass,” 
“Groan”). What was meant by these 
four words is not known. 


Stael (Mudame de), called by Heine 
[Hine] ‘a whirlwind in petticoats,” and 
a‘ sultana of mind." 


Btag (The) symbolizes Christ, because 
(according to fable) it draws serpents by 
its breath out of their holes, and then 
tramples them to death.—Pliny, Natural 
History, viii. 50. 

Stag or Hind, emblem of the tribe 
of Naphtali. In the old church at Tot- 
ness is a stone pulpit divided into com- 
partments, containing shields bearing the 
emblems of the Jewish tribes, this being 
one. 

Naphtali ls a hind let looss.—Gen. zlix. 21. 


Stag’s Horn, considered in Spain a 
safeyuard ayainst the evil eye; hence, a 
sinall horn, silver-tipped, is often hung on 
the neck of a child. If an evil eye is 
then cait on the child, it enters the horn, 
which i; bursts asunder, 

Are you not afraid of the evil eye? 
Have you a stag’s horn with you? 
Longfellow, The Spunish Student, ill 6. 

Stagg (enjamin), the proprietor of 
the cellar in the Barbican where the secret 
sucicty of ‘‘'Prentice Knights" used to 
convene. He was a blind man, who 
fawned on Mr. Sitn Tappertit, ‘the 
‘prentices’ glory” and captain of the 
‘*’Prentice Knights.” But there was a 
disparity between his words and senti- 
ments, if we may judge from this 
specinen> ‘Good night, most noble 





941 


STANDARD. 


captain! farewell, brave general! bye- 
bye, illustrious commander !—a concei 
bragging, empty-headed, duck-leg 
idiot!” Benjamin Stagg was shot b 
the soldiery in the Gordon riots. 
Dickens, Barnaby Rudye (1841). 
Stagirite (3 sy/.). Aristotle is called 
the Stayirite because he was born at 
Stagira, in Macedon. Almost all our 


English ts call the word Stagirite: 
as Pope,-Thomson, Swift, Byron, Words- 
worth, B. Browning, etc. ; but it should 


be Stagi’rite (rrayecpirns). 
Thick like a giory round the Stagyrite, 
the sages. 


Your rivals 
Browning, Pereceleus, L 


All the wisdom of the Stagirite. 
Wordsworth. 


Plato, the te, and 
Stagyrite, Tully Joined. 


As if the Stagirite e’erlooked the line. 
bea re aa 
Swift, To br. Sheridan (1718). 
Stamboul (2 sy/.), Constantinople, 
prin Sart naras a fs nae, 
Stammerer (7he). Louis II. of 
France, le Béyue (846, 877-879). 
Michael II. emperor of the East 
(*, 820-829). 
Notker or Notger of St. Gall (880- 
912). 


Stanchells, head jailer at the Glas- 
ow tolbooth.—Sir W. Scott, Rob Roy 
time, George I.). 

Standard. A substantial building 
for water supplies, as the Water Stan- 
dard of Cornhill, the Standard in Cheap, 
opposite Honey Lane, ‘“‘which Jobo 
Wells, grocer, caused to be made [? re- 


bui/t] in his mayoralty, 1430."—Stow, 
Survey (‘‘ Cheapside”). 
The Chcapside Sta - This Standard 


was in existence in the reign of Edward 
I]. In the reign of Edward III. two 
fishmongers were beheaded at the 
Cheapside Standard, for aiding in a riot. 
Henry IV. caused ‘‘ the blank charter of 
Richard I.” to be burnt at this place. 
The Standard, Cornhill. This was a 
conduit with four spouts, made by Peter 
Morris, a German, in 1582, and supplied 
with Thames water, conveyed by leaden 
pipes over the steeple of St. Magnus's 
Church. It stood at the east end of 
Cornhill, at its junction with Grace- 
church Street, Bishopsyate Street, and 
Leadenhall Street. The water ceased 
to run between 1598 and 1608, Lut the 
Standard iteelf remained long afte 





vores on erie centre of the English army. 
The pole displayed the standards of St. 
Cuthbert of Durham, St. Peter of York, 
St. John of Beverley, and St. Wilfred of 
Ripon, surmounted by a little silver 
casket containing a consecrated wafer.— 
Hailes, Annals of Svutland, i. 85 (1779). 


The Rattle of the Standard was eo called from the 
Danner of Bt. Cuthbert, which was thought always to 
eseure success. It came forth at the tattle of Nevil’s Cros, 
and was again victorious, Jt was preserved with great 
reverence till the Reformation, when, In 1549, Catharine 
Whittingham (a French lady), wife of the dean of Durham, 
burnt It owt of seal against papery .—Miss Yunge. Canscos 


Standing (Zo die). Vecspasian said, 
**An emperor of Rome ought to die 
standing.” Louis XVIII. of France said, 
** A king of France ought to die standing.” 
This craze is not confined to crowned 
heads. 


Standish (files), the puritan cap- 
tain, was short of stature, strongly built, 
broad in the shoulders, deep-chested, 
and with sinews like iron. His daughter 
Rose was the first to die ‘Sof all who 
came in the Mayflower.” Being desirous 
to marry Priscilla ‘‘the beautiful puri- 
tan,” he sent young Alden to plead his 
cause; but the maiden answered archily, 
“Why don’t you speak for yourself, 
John?” Soon after this, Standish was 
shot with a poisoned arrow, and John 
Alden did speak for himaelf, and pre- 
vailed.—Lonyfellow, Courtship of Miles 
Stundish (1858). 


Standish (Mr. Justwe), a brother 
magistrate _with Bailie Trombet!  +'- 





STARELEIGH. 





STEELE GLAS. 





and, throwing off his clothes, waited for 
the nine adversaries. When asked if he 
would fight with them one by one or all 
together, he replied, ‘‘When dogs bark 
at me, I drive them all off at once.”"— 
Joannes Magnus, Gothurum Suevorumque 
Historia (1554). 


Stareleigh (Justice), a stout, pudgy 
little judge, very deaf, and very iras- 
cible, who, in the absence of the chief 
justice, sat in judgment on the trial of 
** Bardell ec. Pickwick."—C. Dickens, 
The Iwckwick Papers (1836). 


Starno, king of Lochlin. Having 
been conquered by Fingal and generously 
set at liberty, he promised Fingal his 
daughter Agandecca in marriage, but 
meant to deal treacherously by him and 
kill him. Fingal accepted the invitation 
of Starmo, and spent three days in boar- 
hunts. He was then warned by Agandecca 
to beware of her father, who bad set an 
ambuscade to waylay him. Finyal, being 
furewarned, fell on the ambush and slew 
every man. When Starno heard thereof, 
1 slew his daughter, whereupon Fingal 
and his followers touuvuk to arms, and 
Starno either ‘‘tled or died.” Swaran 
succeeded his father Starno.—Ossian, Fin- 
yal, il. 3 see also Cuth- Luda. 


Starvation Dundas, IIenry Dun- 
das the tirst lord Melville. So called 
because he introduced the word starvation 
into the languaye (1774). 


Starveling (Robin), the tailor. He 
was cast for the part of ‘ Thisbe's 
mother,” in the drama played before 
duke Theseus (2 sy/.) on ‘‘his wedding 
day at night.” Starveling has nothing 
to say in the drama. — Shakespeare, 
Midsummer Night's Dream (1592). 


State, a royal chair with a canopy 
over it. 


Our hostess keeps her state. 
Shakespeare, Macbeth, act Ul se. 4 (1006). 


Stati’ra, the heroine of La Calpre- 
nede's romance of Cassundra. Statira is 
the daughter of Darius, and is repre- 
sented as the ‘‘ most perfect of the works 
of creation.” Qroondatés is in love with 
ber, and ultimately marries her. 


Scatvra, daughter of Dari’us, and wife of 
Alexander. Young, beautiful, womanly, 
of strony affection, noble bearing, mild 
yet haughty, yielding yet brave. Her 
love for Alexander was unbounded. 
When her roval husband took Roxana 
into favour, the proud spirit of tho 


princess was indignant, but Alexander, 
y his love, won her back ayain. Statira 
was murdered by Koxana the Bactrian, 
called the ‘ Rival Queen.”—N. 
Alexander the Great (1678). 

Miss Boutwell was the original ‘‘Statira’ of Lee's 
Alezander, and once, when playing with Mra Barry 
(1678) she was iu danger of receiving on the stage her 
Geath-blow. It happened thus: Before the curtain 
drew up, the two queens, ’’ Statira™ and “ - 
a real rivalship abuut a lace veil, allotted to Miss Boutwell 
by the tanager. This so enraged Mrs. Barry that, in 
“stabbing ‘Statira,"” she actually thrust her dagger 
th ber rival's stays, a quarter of an inch or more 
Into fiesh.—Campbell, Life of Mra. Siddons. 

Dr. Doran tells us that: 


The charming George Ann Bellamy (1733-1788) red 
frow Paris two gorgeous dresses for the part of ~ Beatina - 
When Peg Woffington, who . w them, 
she was sp overcuine 
ableness, that she rul 
her with the bandle 
anger : 
Nor he, nor heaven, shall shield thee from my justice. 
Die, surceress, die! and all my wrongs dle with thee { 
Table Traie. 


Staunton (The Rev. Mr.), rector of 
Willingham, and father of George 
Staunton. 

Geurye Staunton, son of the Rev. Mr. 
Staunton. He appears first as ‘‘ Geordie 
Robertson,” a felon ; and in the Porteous 
mob he assumes the guise o “t Madge 
Wildtire.” George Graunton is 6 
seducer of Effie ns. Ultimately he 
comes to the title of baronet, marries 
Effie, and is shot by a gipsy boy called 
‘*The Whistler,” who proves to be his 
own natural son. 

Lady Staunton, Effie Deans after her 
marriage with sir George. On the death 
of her husband, she retires to a convent 
on the Continent.—Sir W. Scott, Heart of 
Midlothian (time, George II.). 


Steadtast, a friend of the Duberl 
family.—Colman, The Heir-at-Law(1797). 


Steeds of the Sea, ships, a cum 
mon synonym of the Kunic bards. 
And thro’ the deep exulting sweep 
The Thunder-steeds of Spain. 
Lord Lyttun, Ode, L. (usa. 


Steel Castle, a stroug ward, belong- 
ing to the Yellow Dwarf. Here he 
confined Ali-Fair when she refused to 
marry him according to her promise.— 
Comtesse D'’Aunoy, Fuiry Jules (‘‘ The 
Yellow Dwarf,” 1682). 


Steele Glas (Zhe), a mirror in 
which we may ‘‘ see ourselves as others 
see us,” or see others in their true 
likenesses. 

The Christel Glasse, on the other hand, 
reflects us as vanity dictates, and shows 
other people as fame paints th3m.- 


» hatred, and all uncharit- 
her rival in the dust, pu:mnelled 
of ber dagger, and screamed in 








STEPHANO. 945 


Steph'ano, servant to Portia.—Shake- 
speare, Jferchant of Venice (1598). 


Stephen, one of the attendants of 
wr Kevinald Front de Bouf (a follower 
of prince John).—Sir W. Scott, JoanAoe 
(time, Richard I.). 


Stephen (Count), tae of the count 
of Créveceeur.—Sir W. Scott, Quentin 
Durward (time, Edward I'V.). 


who thinks all inferiors are to be snu 

and bullied, and all those weaker and 
mere cowardly than himself are to be 
kicked and beaten. He is especially 
struck with captain Bobadil, and tres 
to imitate his ‘dainty oaths.” Master 
Ste; hen has no notion of honesty and 
high-mindedness: thas he steals Down- 
right’s cloak, which had been accidentally 
dropped, declares be bought it, and then 
that he found it. Being convicted of 
falsehoud, he resigns all claim to it, 
saying ina huff, * There, take your cloak ; 
I'll none on't.” This small-minded youth 
is young Kno'well's cousin.—Hen Jonson, 
Every Man in Lis ffumuir (1598), 


Stephen (The British St.), St. Alban, 
the Kritish prote-martyr (died 303), 


As mon a the executioner gave the fatal etroke [which } 
beheaded 8. A‘hon| bla eyes dropped out of bila head — 


Beds, Kecliustioa! Niatery (A.D, Tl. 


Stephen Steelheart, the nickname | 


of Stephen Wetheral.—Su W. Scott, 
fcanAoe (time, Nichard I.). 


Stephen of Amboise, leader of 
5000 foot soldiers from Blois and Toura 
in the allied Christian army of Godfrey 
of Bowllon. Impetuous in attack, but 
deficient in steady resigtance, He was 
sbot by Clorinda with an arrow (bk, xi.). 
—Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered (1575). 


Sterling (J/r.), a vulgar, rich City 
merchant, who wishes to see his two 
daughters married to titles, Lord Ogleby 
calls lim “a very abstract of ‘Change ;" 
and he himeelf says, ‘‘ What signifies 
birth, education, titles, and so forth? 
Money, ] say—monev's the stuff that 
makes aman creat in this country.” 

Misa Sterliny, whose Christian name is 
Elizabeth or Betty; a apiteful, jealous, 
urse-proud damsel, engayed to sir John 

felvil., Sir Joho, seeing emall prospect 
of happiness with such a tartar, proposed 
m:irriaye toe the vounger sister; and Misa 
Sterling, lewing left out in Lhe cold, ex- 
claimed, “‘ Uh that some other person, an 


ear! ur duke for instance, would propose | 


‘tephen (Master), a conceited PUPPY | 





STEYNE. 
to me, that I might be revenged on the 


monsters!" 

Miss Fanny Sterling, an amiable, sweet~ 
smiling, soft-speaking ty, clandes- 
tinely married to Lovewell.—Colman and 
Garnck, The Clandestine Marriage (1766), 





i ocked the 
oor of Mim Faong’s room and walked away with the 
key, Mrs. Gibbs eaeiaimed, “ Bhe has locked tise k , and 
carried away the doorin ber pocksi”—W.C. Romell, 
Apprentices Actern. 


| §terry, a fanstical preacher, admired 
by Hugh Petersa.—S. Butler, Audibras 
(1663-78), 


Stevens, a messenger of the earl of 
Sussex at Say's Court.—Sin W. Scott, 
AendwortA (time, Elizabeth), 

Btewart (Colonel), governor of the 
castle of Doune.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George I1.). 

Stewart (Prince Charles Edward), sur- 
named ‘* The Chevalier" by his friends, 
and ‘* The Pretender" by his foes. Sir 
W. Scott introduces him in Waverley, 
and again in Aedyauntlet, where he ap- 


| peara disguised as “father Ruonaven- 


tura.” (Now generally spelt Stuart.) 


Stewart ( Walking), John Stewart, the 
English traveller, who travelled on foot 
through Hindistan, Persia, Nubia, Abys- 
binia, the Arabian Desert, Europe, and 
the United States (died 1822). 

A mont interesting man,.. . eloquent in conversation, 
Seen en. poh thane and i nally wesc is 
vicnicinsn Thin tut, a & padectrfam Graveiier, bad 
een more of the ewth's surlace ... than any map 
before or since.—De Quincey, 

*." Walking Stewart must not be 
confounded with John M‘Douall Stuart, 
the Australian explorer (1813-1866). 


Stewart Diamond (Tz), found in 
1872, is the largest South African dia- 
mond discovered up to the year 1880, 
It weighed in the rough state 788) carats, 
and but few diamonds in the world ex- 
ceed it in size. Jt is of a light yellow 
hue, and is set as a star with eight points 
and a fleur de iys above. This superb 
stone, with the Dudley and Twin dis- 


| mordas, have all been discovered in the 


Cape since 1870. 

Steyne (Margwis of), earl of Gauns 
and of Gaunt Castle, te viscount, baron, 
koight of the Garter and of numerous 
other orders, colonel, trustee of the 
iritish Museum, elder brother of the 
Trinity House, governor of White Friars, 
etc., had honours and tithes enoods * 

38 eS 





STOCKS’ MARKET. 


Stocks’ Market. So called from o 
pair of stocks which at one time stood 
there. Gardeners used to occupy all but 
the north and south-west part. The 
Hower called the “‘stock™ received its 
name from being sold there. The market 
was removed to Farringdon Street in 
177, and was then called “‘ Fleet Mar- 
ket.” 

Where is there such a garden In | as the Btocks’ 
Market? Where exch o cver aa the Thames? Where 
rh ponds and decoys ac in Leadenhall Market for your 
Bah and lowl!—Shadwell, Sury Fade (Jt), 

Stockwell (./r.), a City merchant, 
who promised to vive his daughter Nancy 
in marriage to the son of sir Harry Har- 
liwe of Dorsetshire. 

Mrs. Stuckwell, the merchant's wife, 
whe always veers round to the last 
rjeaker, and can be persuaded to any- 
thing for the time being. 

Nancy Stockwell, daughter of the mer- 
chant, in lowe with Belford, but promised 
in marriage to sir Marry Ilarlowe's son, 
It so happens that sir Ilarry's son has 
privately married another lady, and Nancy 
falls tu the man of her chuice.—Garrick, 
Neck or Nuthing (1766). 





Stolen Kisses, a drama by Paul 
Meritt, in three acta (1877). Felix Free- 
mantle, under the pseudonym of Mr. Joy, 
foil: in lowe with Cherry, daughter of 
Tw Spint once valet to Mr. Freemantle 
(wily hal come to the title of viscount 
‘Tringmar). 
tnined that ** Felix Jovy was the son of 
the viscount, he forbade all further in- 
tvercourse, unless Felix produced his 
father’s consent to the marriage, The 
next part of the plot periains te the 
lirether of Tom Spirit, who had assuinie! 
tle name of Walter Temple, ani, as a 
eluck-broker, had become very wealthy. 
In his prosperity, Walter scornfully 
imnorad his brother Tom, and his amt- 
tien was to marry his daughter Jenny to 
the sem of viscount Trangmar, who owed 
him money. Thus the two cousins, 
Cherry and Jenny, came into collision ; 
‘uit at the end Jenny married Fred Gay, 
a medical student, Cherry married Felix, 
tie two brothers were reconciled, and 
‘Tem released hia old master, viseount 
Tranwmar, by destroving the bond which 
Walter held and pave him. 


S‘one of Loda, « place of worship 
aniingst the aucient Gaels, — Ossian, 
fcwerd, ¥. 


Stonehenge. Aorelius Ambrosiua 
asked Merlin what memento he could 


947 STONEWALL JACKSON. 


When Tom Spirit macer- | 








raise to commemorate his victory over 
Vortigern; and Merlin advised him to 
remove “ The Giant's Danoce™ from 
mornt Killaraus, in Ireland, to Salisbury 
Plain, So Aurelius placed « fleet and 
15,000 men under the charge of Uther the 
pendragon and Merlin for the purpose, 
Gilloman king of Ireland, who oppos 
the invaders, was routed, and then Merlin, 
“by his art,” shipped the stones, and set 
them up on the plain “in the same 
manner as they stood on Killaraus.”— 
Geoffrey, Britwh Histery, viii. 10-12 
(1142). 
pon a ea as elma ins 
Drayton, Pelpotiion, it, ()Gi2), 
Serene erent, 
Dryden, Epistles, il. 
Stonchenge a Trophy. It is said, in 
the Welsh trinds, that this circle of 
stones was erected by the Britons to 
commemorate the “treachery of the Long- 
Knives,” fc. a conference to which the 
chief of the British warriors were invited 
by Hengist at Ambresbury, Beside each 
chief a Saxon was seated, armed with a 
long knife, and at o given signal each 
Saxon slew hia Briton. As many os 460 
Iiritish nobles thas fell, but Eidiol earl 
of tsloucester, after slaying seventy 
Saxons (some say 660), made his escape. 
—Welsh Priads, 

Btoneleng: was erect! by Merlin, af the commmund of 
Anmbrelos, in inemery of the plot of the * Loug-Koulves,” 
when DW Erith chiefs were jitimarcre! by 
, He tullt ton the win of a former cine It 


Aiug-aphy, art, “* Merddin.* 

*." Most Drev, o solitary mound 
close to Dumfermline, owes its origin, 
acvording to story, to some unfortunate 
ititnka, who, by way of penance, carried 
the sand io baskete from the sea-shore at 
luverness. 

At Linten is a fine conical hill attri- 
buted te two sisters (nuns), who were 
compelled to pass the whole of the sand 
through a sieve, by way of penance, to 
obtain pardon for some crime committed 
by their brother. 

The Gog Magog Hills, near Cambridge, 
are ascribed to his Satanic majesty. 

Stonewall Jackson, Thomas Jona- 
than Jackson, general in the southern 
army in the great civil war of the North 
American States. General Ilee suggested 
the name in the battle of Bull Run (1861), 
‘There is Jackson," said he to hia men, 
“standing like a stone wall” (1#24- 
1863). 


~ pe 5 


svwrm-and-Strain Period. Th 
last quarter of the eizhteenth century wa 
called in Germany the Stur, -und-Dran, 

il, ause every one Seemed in a feve: 
to shake off the shackies of government, 
custom, prestige, and religion. The Poets 
raved in Voleanic rant Or moonshine 


h-poohed, Goethe's Man eit) the 
ron f4and and Surruics of Werther, Schil- 
ler's Robbers, Klinger's tragedies, Les- 
sing’s criticisms, the mania for Shake- 
Speare and Ossian revolutionized the 
literature ; and the cry went forth for 
untrammelled freedom, which was nick- 
named “ Nature.” As well go anclad, 
and call it nature. 


Storms (Cape o -_ The Cape of Good 

Hope wag called vf Bartholomew Diaz 

Lormentoso in 1486; but king John 

Nl. of Portugal gave it its present more 
auspicious name. 

Stornello Verses, verses in which 
& word or phrase is narped upon, and 
turned about and about, as in the follow- 
ing example :— 
bla, anGe! Wave our banner, the red, white, and 

Us ; 


E.C.B. 
S.T-.P., the same as D.D., “ divinity 
doctor.” The initials of Sancte 7; hetoyia 
Professor, 


a 





STRANGFORD. 949 


Mrs, R. Trench says of John P. Kemble 
(1757-1828) : 

I alears aw him with palo deerend to “The Borunger,” 
Tt wee Tike the geniui in the Aruban tale going into the 
wuss. Fire, it camel oo unlikely Aa should meet with 
much an affront, anid this injured the | bility of the 

: afd next, “The Btrunger~ js really never digoifled, 
aod ope i olwaye in palo for him, poor genilenan — 
errrniirus (1323). 


Strangford (Percy Clinton Sydney 
Smythe, mscuunt), in 1803, published a 
translation of the poems of Camoens, 
the great Portaguese poet. 

Hibernian Strangfornd .. . 

Thinks? thou te alo thy verse « higher place 

Dy dreading Camoons in a wilt of lace? ,. 

Cease to deceime ; thy plifered harp restore, 

Nor few) the Losin bend to onpy Mire. 
Aerio, 


Syma, Lagiiih Sarde ded Sootek ra (1S). 
Strap (//wjh), a simple, generous, 
and disinterested adberent of Roderick 


Random. Tlis generosity and fidelity, 
however, meet with but a hase return 
from the heartless libertine. —T, Smollett, 
Roderick Random (\748). 
We believe there are few reer who are nof di- 

with the nilactable reward aligned io Birapin the ta 
chapter of the iwwel Five bonded porns jer Die 
“alu of the Geals be had preented fo hie minster) end 
the hand of a reclalmed street-eilker, eren when od 
tom Highlind farm, sem bt © poor rerompens for bls 
faithful aed dhaln terested altechoenut.—Blr W. Boott, 


Strasbourg Cathedral, designed 
by Erwin von Steinbach (1015-1439), 

Strauchan ((4/), the ‘squire of sir 
Kenneth.—Sir W. Scott, The Talisman 
(time, Richard I.). 

Straw. A litile straw shows which 
wy the wind ius, 


You knuww, or don't know, that great Bacon eth, 
Fling up a etraw, ‘twill dwew the way the wiod blown 
Byron, feos Jima, xiv. 3 | Led), 


Strawberry Leaves [Jo win the), | 


to be created a duke, 


Strawberry Preacher (A), «a 
“Jerusslem pony,” a temporary help, 
who wanders from pulpit to pulpit, to 
preach for some society, to aid some 
aheent or invalided minister, or to advo- 
cate sume charity. The term was first 
used by Latimer, and the phrase means 
o ‘straying preacher.” (Anglo-Saxon, 
streverun, “‘to stray ;" hence, strawberry, 
streow-beric, ‘the straying berry-plant.") 


Streets of London ( Zi), a drama 
ov Dion Koucicault (1462), adapted from 
the French play Les Juucres des Juris, 


Stre'mon, a soldier, famous for his 
sinving.—Deaumont and Fletcher, Zhe 
diud Leer (Wily). 

Strephon, the shepherd in sir Philip 
Sidney's Arana, who makes love to the 
beautiful Urania (1580), It is a stock 


| Miss Smith, daughter of a 


| Fostling goim The ewe of peere bs mot ite 








STRONG MEN AND WOMEN. 


name for a lover, Cloé being usually the 
corresponding lady. 
Garrick, The /rish Widow, & 3(1787. = 
The servant of your Btrephom .. . is my lord and 
—lerrick, Mig im Her Teens (1759). 
Stretton (festa), the pseudonym of 
okseller and 
printer in Wellington, Salop, authoress 
of several well-known religious novels, 
BStrickalthrow Nag tin: in Crome 
well's troop.—Sir W. Seott, Woodstock 
(time, Commonwealth). 


Strictland (J/r.), the “ suspicious 
busband;" who suspects Clarinda, a 
young lady visitor, of corrupting his 
wife; suspects Jacintha, his ward, of 
lightness ; and suspects bis wife of in- 
fidelity; but all his suspicions being 
proved proundlessa, he promises reform, 

Mfrs, Strictland, wife of Mr. Strictland, 
a model of discretion and good nature. 
She not only gives no cause of jealous 
to her husband, but never even resents his 
suspicions of returns ill temper in the 
game coin.—Dr. Hondly, The ta? 
Husband (1747). 


Strike Dakyns! the Devil's in 
the Hempe, the motto of the Dak ynses, 
The reference is to an enemy of the king, 
who had taken refuye in a pile of hemp, 
Dakyns, having nosed the traitor, was 
exhorted to strike him with his battle- 
axe and kill him, which he did. Hence 
the crest of the familv—a dexter arm 
* = « holding a battle-axe, 

Striking the Shield, a call 
battle aniong the ancient Gaels, 

“ trike the sounding shiehof Bemo| 1t hangs af Turae 


S 


Weel, 
heros hal) bear aod obey.” He went He strock 
emery shiek, The hill, the rocks 


Stromboli, called ‘The Great Light- 
house of the Mediterranean ™ from its 
volcano, which is in o constant blage. 


Strong (Dr.), a benevolent old school. 
master, to whom David Copperfield was 
sent whilst living with Mr. Wickfield, 
aha old Sere duted on hia young wife 

nie, and supported her s 
cousin Jack Maldun.—C. Dickens, David 
Copperyield (1649), 

Btrong Men and Women, 

Antwos, Atlas, Dorsinés the Indian 
Herculés, Guy earl of Warwick, Herculés, 
Macéria son of Amon, Rustam the Persian 








STUART OF ITALY. 
After the defeat at Culloden he fled to 


France, was banished from that kingdom, 
and died at Rome a drunken dotard 
(1720-1788). 


Hxrsry Bgyepict, cardinal York, the 
iy of the race, was a pensioner of George 


Stuart of Italy (The Mary), Jane 
I. of Naples (1327, 1343-1382). 

Jane married her cousin André of 
Hungary, who was assassinated two 
years after his marriage, when the widow 
married the assassin. So Mary Stuart 
married her cousin lord Darnley, 1565, 
who was murdered 1567, and the widow 
married Bothwell, the assassin. 

Jane ficd to Provence, 1347, and was 
stranzled in 1382. So Mary Stuart fled 
to England in 1568, and was put to death 
1587 (Old Style). 

Jane, like Mary, was remarkable for 
her great beauty, her brilliant court, her 
voluptuousness, and the men of genius 
she drew around her; but Jane, like Mary, 
was aiso noted for her deplorable ad- 
ministration. 

*,* La Har 
Jeanne de Naples (1765), 
an adaptation of it (1821). 


Stuarts’ Fatal Number (The). 
This number is 88. 

James III. was killed in flight near 
Bannockburn, 1488. 

Mary Stuart was beheaded 1588 (New 
Style). 

James II. of England was dethroned 
1688. 

Charles Edward died 1788. 

*.* James Stuart, the ‘‘Old Pre- 
tender,” was born 1688, the very year 
that his father abdicated. 

James Stuart, the famous architect, 
died 1788, 

(Some affirm that Robert ITI., the first 
Stuart king, died 1388, the year of the 
great battle of Otterburn ; but the death 
of this king is more usually tixed in the 
spring of 1390.) 

Stubble (Reuben), bailiff to Farmer 
Cornflower, rough in manner, severe in 
discipline, a stickler for duty, ‘‘a plain, 
upright, and downright man,” true to his 
master and to himself.—C, Dibdin, Zhe 
Farmer's Wise (1780). 

Stubbs, the beadle at Willingham. 
The Rev. Mr. Staunton was the rector.— 
Sir W. Scott, //eurt of Midlothian (time, 
George II.). 

Stubbs (Sfiss Sissly or Cecilia), daugh- 


wrote a tragedy called 
Schiller has 


961 


STUTLY. 
ter of squire Stubbs, one of Waveriey’s 
neighbours. — Sir W. Scott, We 
(time, George II.). 

Stuffy (Matthew), an applicant to 
Velinspeck, a country ma tr, for a 
situation as prompter, for which he says 
he is peculiarly qualified by th&t affeo- 
tion of the eyes vulgarly called a squint, 
which enables him to keep one eve on the 
performers and the other on the book at 
the same time.—Charles Mathews, Aé 
Home (1818). 

Stuffy ts one of the richest bits of humour we ever 





witnemed. His endless eulogies apon the state of things 
in the immortal Garrick’s time are highly ludicrous. — 
per. 


Stuke’ly (2 sy/.), a detestable man. 
‘¢°*T’would be as easy to make him honest 
as brave” (act i. 2). He pretends to be the 
friend of Beverley, but cheats him. He 
aspires to the hand of Miss Beverley, wae 
is in love with Lewson.—Edward Moore, 
The Gamester (1753). 


Stukely ( Will), the companion of Little 
John. In the morris-dance on May-day 
Little John used to occupy the right hand 
side of Robin Hood, and Will Stakely the 
left. (See Srutty.) 


Stukely (Captain Harry), nephew of sir 
Gilbert Pumpkin of Strawberry Hall.— 
I. Jackman, Ali the World's a Stay . 


Stupid Boy (The), St. Thomas 
Aquinas ; also called at school ‘‘The Dumb 
Ox" (1224-1274). 

Sturgeon (Afajor), J.P., ‘*the fish- 
monger from Brentford,” who turned 
volunteer. This bragging major makes 
love to Mrs. Jerry Sneak.—S. Foote, The 
Mayor of Garratt (1763). 

Wehad sume desperate duty, sir Jacob, .. . such 


v@® ma.or Molosaea... 

On we marched, the men all in high spirits, to 

gibbet where Garde! is hanging; but, 

narruw lane to the left, as is might be 

e. that we inight 
w 


posvens a pigsty 
should 


in flank. and secure a retreat 


they came, thundering upon us, broke our 
in sn instant, and threw the whole corps into confusica, 

Sturmthal (Jfelchoir), the banneret 
of Berne, one of the Swiss deputies.—Sir 
W. Scott, Anne of Geierstcin (time, Edward 
IV.). 

Stutly (Will), sometimes called Wail 
Stutely, a companion of Little John. In 
the morris-dance on May-day, Little John 
occupied the right hand side of Robin 
Hood, and Will Stutly-the left. His 
rescue frum the sheriff of [Notts] by 

















tno on © act in law thy 
part that or M acts in the church, The 
egal fiction has been abolished. 
tag thane {ONPeetion with the company further than 


a a nsec % 8 certaln fo0 nnd reward: ney reer than 
Moy medical man, precisely as | give it to Jack 
Noakes er Tecn Styies.—Dickase oe 


*.* Tom Styles, Jack Noakes, John 

z ap rr : are all Mrs. 
arrises ) Profession, noming 

 praterea nihil, e ‘ 

Styx, one of the five rivers of hell. 
The others are Ach’eron (‘the Fiver of 
gree” » Cocytus (“‘the river of wailing”), 

ethon (‘‘the river of liquid fire ” ; 
and thé (“the river of oblivion ”). 


i 


tom, Paradise Leet, ti. 877, ote. (1608), 
té places the rivers in different 
circles of the nferno; thus, he makes the 











SUCKLE FOOLS. 


958 


aa SE 


SULLEN. 





and as both plaintiff and defendant left 
the court fully persuaded that the verdict 
was in his own favour, they were both 
highly satisfied, ‘‘a thing without parallel 
in the annals of the law,"—Rabelais, 
Pantagrwel, ii. 11-13 (1533), 


Buckle Fools. Iago says the ose of 

a wife is 
To suckle feola, and chronicle emall beer, 
Shakespeare, Othello, act oc, 1 (UGL1L 

Suddlechop (Fenjamin), “the most 
renowned barber in all Fleet Street.” A 
thin, half-starved creature, 

lame Ursula Sucdlechop, the barber's 
wife. “She could contrive interviews for 
lovers, and relieve frail fnir ones of the 
burden of a guilty passion.” She had 
been a pupil of Mrs. Turner, and learnt 
of her the secret of making yellow starch, 
and two or three other prescriptions more 
lucrative still. The dame was scarcely 
40 veara of aye, of full form and comely 
features, with a joyous, good-humoured 
€X pression. 


feome U rela hed aceplntan|ess , .. among the quality, 
and maintains! her intercoure ... party by driving a 
trade In perfurers, emences, pore, heml-geare fr 
Fron, met to menthen driee of wurlous descriptions, 
chiefly fer the gee of ladies, anid partly by ofber services 
nore or le connected wilh the euoteric branches of ber 
ein gy W. Scott, Fortune af Nigel, vill. (time, 

amis 1). 

Buds (rs.), any washerwoman or 

laundresa, 


Buerpo Banto, called St. Elmo, 
Castor and Pollux, 5t. Hermes; a coma- 
gant or electne light occasionally seen on 
a ship's mast before or after a storm. 

Ido remember. , . (here Gune open the fc 
Goaineyanie on! maine-omsie «a cerinine litte i. 
@hich the Bpanianis call the Surrpo Bomia, . . . 
light continosd shod our ship aboot three bourses, Myilig 
from taste fo masts, ond from lap to top.— 
Vopuges | 1585) 

Buffusion. §o that dimness of sight 
is called which precedes acataract. It was 
once thouyht that m cataract was a thin 
film growing externally over the eye and 
veiling the sight; but it is now known 
that the seat of the disease ia the 
crystalline humour (between the outer 
coat of the eve and the pupilla). Couch- 
ing for this disease is perfommed with o 
needle, which is jmesed through the ex- 
ternal coat, and dnven into the crystalline 
humour. (See lwor Serene.) 

Rr thick a “vine serene” haih quencied thelr onte, 

Or ding “ meffosin ~ welled. 

Milton, Puradise Lost, Wi 25 (1055). 

Buicides from Books. 

CLeoM'’nketos, the Academic philo- 
popes, killed bimeelf after reading Plato's 


Pardon, that he might enjoy the happiness | 


of the future life soenchantingly described. 


| of eke on a ridge of rocks, 
Wierd 


| And ob | for 





FRAULEIN vox LASSBERG drowned 
herself in a after reading Goethe's 
Sorrows of Werther. 


Sulin-Sifad'da, one of the two steeds 
of Cuthullin general of the Irish tribes. 
The name of the other was Dusronnal, 

Before att head g the car bb seen the morting 
hore; the high-maned, broad-breasted, proad while 
leaping, strong ateed of the hill Loud aod resounding is 
his hoe! ; the eprewding of bis mane above fs like a etre 

Bright are the skies of his 
. His name is Sulin-Sifadda —Oasian, Phagal, L 

Dusronnal enorte) over the textiles of hercea Eifadde 
bathed his heal in bload,—Dites 

Bulky (/r.), executor of Mr. Warren, 
and partner in Dornton's bank. With a 
sulky, grumpy exterior, he has a kind 
heart, and 1s strictly honest. When 
Dornton is brought to the brink of 


| ruin by his son's extravagance, Sulky 


comes nobly forward to the rescue. (See 
Sitxr.)—T. Holeroft, The Road to Ruin 
(1792). 
. What a blest day, 

Whan the lank and the alk whoall, in fond combination 
(Like Bulky and Silky, that pair im the play), 

Or ot wim one voice for “high rent” and “sierra 


T. Moore, Gade te the Coddem Ceres (1.806), 


Bullen (Spure), aon of lady Bounti- 
ful by ber first husband. He married 
the sister of sir Charles Freeman, but 
after fourteen months their tempers and 
dispositions were found so incompatible 
that they mutually agreed to a divorce. 

He mys Bittle, thinks lew and does nothing at all 
Falth | eae ee of great eeinie, and relues no 

Porson Troliiber, sir Wilfal Witwould, sir Francis 
Wrooghead, esquire Western, squire Sulien,—such wore 
the people who composed the malo sirength of the tory 


: pact Soe Seats pany atte She Revolution. —Lani Macao- 


*." “Parson Trulliber,” in Ji 
Andrews (by Fielding); ‘sir Wilful 
Witwould,” in The Way of the World 
(Congreve); “‘sir Francis Wronghead,” 
in Zhe Provoked Husband (by Cibber) ; 
‘squire Western,” in Jom Jones (by 
Fie my 

Mrs, Sullen, sister of sir Charles Free- 
man, and wife of squire Sullen, They 
had been married fourteen months when 


| they agreed mutually to a separation, for 


in no one single point was there any com- 
patibility between them, The squire was 
sullen, the lady aprightly; he could not 
drink tea with her, and she could not 
drink ale with him; be hated ombre and 
picquet, she hated eock-fighting and 
racing ; he would not dance, and she 
would not hant. Mra. Sullen liked Archer, 
fnend of Thomas viscount Aimwell, both 
fortune-hunters; and squire Sullen, wheo 


he separated from his wife, was obliyed to 








SUNDAY. 


SUPERSTITIONS. 





ene time maintained that the sun danced 


ea Easter Day. 
But oh! she dances such a way, 
No mua 0 an Easter Day 


Is half so fine a sight. 
Str John Suekling, The Wedding (died 1641). 


Whoee beanty makes the sprightly sun 
To dance, as upon Raster Day. 
John Cleveland, The General Eciipes (died 1639). 
Sunday is the day when witches do 
penance. 


TUl on a day (that is every prime { fret day B, 
When witches wont for their crime. 
Bpenser, Padry Queen, L i. @ (1900). 
Sunflower (The) is so called simply 
the flower resembles a picture- 
sun, with its yellow petals like rays round 
ite dark disc. Thomas Mcore is quite in 
error when he says it turns towards the 
sun. I have had sunflowers turning to 
every point of the compass, and after 
narrowly watching them, have seen in 
them no tendency to tum towards the 
sun, or to shift their direction. 

The sunfower turns on her god, when he ests, 

The enme look which she turned when he ree. 
¥. Moore, /rish Meludies, ii. (" Believe Me, If sll those 

Young Charms,” 1814). 
Sun’ith, one of the six Wise Men of 
the East led by the guiding star to Jesus. 
lie had three holy dauyhters.—Klop- 

stock, The Messiah, v. (1771). 


Sunium’s Marbled Steep, cape 
Colonna, once crowned with a temple of 
Minerva. 

Here martle columns, long by time defaced, 

Niusw-covered. on the lofty cane are placed, 

There reared by fair devotion to sustain 

tu chier umes Tritunia’s sacred fane [temple of Minerva}, 
Fakoner, The Shipereok, til 5 (1762). 

Sunshine of St. Bulalie’ (3 sy/.), 
Evangeline. 

Bunshine of St. Euliie was she called, for that was the 
Which. as the farmers believed, would load their orchards 
with apples. 
. Longfellow. Evangeline, L 1 (1869). 

Super Grammat’icam, Sigismund 
emperor of Germany (1366, 1411-1437). 

At the council of Constance, held 1414, Sigismund used 
the word schiema asa noun of the feminine geoder (ila 
refunds echiema). A prig of a cardinal corrected him, 
gaping. “‘ Schisma,’ your highness, is neuter gender ;~ 
when the kaber turneal on trim with ineffable srora, and 
sud, * I am king of the Romans, and what is grammar 
w me?” (Zgo eum rez Rowmanas(? Rumanorum | of esper 
grumnmaticu:n.}—Carlyle, Frederick the Great (1856). 

Superb (Zhe). Genda is called La 
Superda, from its general appearance from 
the aca. 


Superstitions about Animals. 

ANT. When antes are unusually busy, 
foul weather is at hand. 

Ants never sleep.— Emerson, Nature, iv. 

Ants lay up food for winter use.— 
Proc. vi. 6-8; xxx. 25, 


Ants’ eggs are an antidote to love. 

Ass. The mark running down the back 
of an ass, and cut at night angles over the 
shoulders, is the cross of Christ, impressed 
on the animal because Christ rode on an 
ass in His triumphant entry into Jerusa- 

em. 

Three hairs taken from the “ cross” of 
an ass will cure the hvoping-cough, but 
the ass from which the hairs are plucked 
will die. 

The ass is deaf to music, and hence 
Apollo gave Midas the ears of an ass, 
because he preferred the piping of Pan 
to the music of Apollo's lute. 

Barwacre. <A barnacie broken off a 
ship turns iuto a Solan goose. 

Like your Seotch barnacie, now a block, 
lustantly a worm, and presently a great goose. 
Marston, The Malecontent (1604). 
Basivisk. The basilisk can kill at a 
distance by the ‘‘ poison” of its ylance. 
There's not a giance of thine 
But, like a bacilick, comes winged with death. 
Lee, Alexander the Ureat, v. 1 (1678). 
Berar. The cub of a bear is licked 
into shape and life by its dam. 
8u watchful Bruin forms with piastie care 
Each growing lump, and brings It to a bear. 
Pupe, The Dunciad, 1. 101 (17398). 

Beaver. When a beaver is hunted, it 
bites off the part which the hunters seek, 
and then, standing upright, shows the 
hunters it is useless to continue the 
pursuit, Eugenius Philalethes, Brief 

utural Histury, 89. 

Bee. If bees swarm on a rotten tree, 
a death in the family will occur within 
the twelvemonth. 

Swarmed on a rotten stick the bees I spied, 
Which erst | eaw when Goudy Dobson dyed. 
Gay, Pastorad, v. (1714). 

Bees will never thrive if you quarrel 
with them or about them. 

If a member of the family dies and the 
bees are not put into mourning, they will 
forsake their hive. 

It is unlucky for a stray swarm of beer 
to flight on your premises. 

Beets. Beetles are both deaf an: 
blind. 

Cat. When cats wash their ears more 
than usual, rain is at hand. 

When the cat washes her face over her ears, wee shall 
have great shore of raine. —Melton, Astrelogaser, 45. 

The sneezing of a cat indicates good 
luck to a bride. 


If a cat sneezes thrice, a cold will run 
through the family. 
Satan's favourite form is that of a 








SUPERSTITIONS. 
If a dog bites you, an 


Harr. 
cunsequence may reven 
applying three of the @ dog's hairs to a 
wound. 

Take the hair, it is well written, 
Of the dog by whieh you're bitten ; 
Work off one wine by his brother, 
And one labour by another. 
Athensus (ascribed to Aristophanée). 

HARE. 
across a road in front of a traveller. The 
Roman augurs considered this an ill 


emen. 


ie plipriaetaptenogelits Cen. lle-s anetingy: Serr 
ond oe Eiminta 
( 


bogia, £71 (1 

It was believed at one time that hares 
ehanged their sex every year. 

Hkpcenoa. Hedgehogs foresee a 
coming storm.—Bodenham, Garden of the 
Muses, 153 (1600). 

Hedyehogs fasten on the dugs of cows, 
and drain off the milk. 

Horse. If a person suffering from 
hooping-~wough asks advice of a man 
riding on a piebald horse, the malady 
will be cured by doing what the man tells 
him to do 

JAGKA!. The jackal is the lion’s pro- 
vider. it hunts with the lion, and pro- 
vides it with food by starting prey as 
dogs start game. 

ADY-BuG. It is unlucky to kill a 
lady-bug. 

Lion. The lion will not injure a royal 
priace. 

Fetch the Numidian lion I broaght Over j 


Beaumont and 

The lion will not touch the true prince.—Shakespeare, 
1 Menry /V', act LL oc. 4 (1568). 

The lion hates the game-cock, and is 
jealous of it. Some say because the cock 
wears a crown (its crest), and others 
because it comes into the royal presence 
** booted and spurred.” 


The flercest lion trembles at t the crowing of a cock.— 
Pliny, Natura! History, vill. 19. 


According to legend, the lion's whelp 
is born dead, and remains so for three 
days, when the father breathes on it, 
and it receives life. 

Lizarp. The lizard is man’s special 
eneiny, but warns him of the approach 
of a serpent. 

Maorix. To see one magpie is un- 
lucky ; to sce two denotes merriment or 
@ marriage; to see three, a su 
journey ; four, good news; five, com- 
pany.—Gruse. 

Another superstition is: ‘One for 
sorrow ; two for mirth ; three, a wedding ; 
four, a death.” 


It is unlucky if a hare runs: 





957 


SUPERSTITIONS. 


One’s sorrow, two's mirth, 
Three's a wedding, four's a birth, 
Five's a christening, nix’s a dearth, 


In Lancashire, two magpies flying to~ 
gether is thought unlucky 

I have heard my gronny say, boode os leef o seen two 
owd harries as two a hve. (magptes|}—Tim Bodkin, 
Lancashire Dialect, 31 

When the magpie chatters, it denotes 
that you will see strangers. 

Man. <A person weighs more fasting 
than after a good meal. 

The Jews maintained that man has 
three natures—body, soul, and spirit. 
Diogtnés Laertius calls the three natures 
body, phren, and thumos; and the 
Romans called them manés, anima, and 
umbra. 

There is a nation of py gmies. 

The Patagonians are of gigantic sta- 
ture. 

There are men with tails, as the Ghi- 
lanes, a race of men ‘‘ beyond the Sen- 
naar;" the Niam-niams of Africa, the 
Narea tribes, certain others south of 
Herrar, in Aby ssinia, and the natives in 
the south of Formosa. 

MARTIN. Itis unlucky to killa martin. 

More. Moles are blind. Hence the 
common expression, ‘* Blind as a mole.” 
tread softly, that the blind mole may not 


The Tempest, act tv. ac. 1 (1608). 


Moon-catr, the offspring of a woman, 
engendered solely by the power of the 
moon.—Dlinv, Natural History, x. 64. 

Mouse. To eat food which a mouse 
has nibbled will give a sore throat. 

It is a bad omen if a mouse gnaws the 
clothes which a person is wearing.— 
Burton, Anatomy of Melancholy, 214 
(1621). 

pos fried mouse is a specific for small- 


Pray you, 
Hear a iootfall. 


P OsTRICH. An ostrich can digest iron. 
Stephen. 1 could eat the very hilts for anger. 

Sapte. a dat al roar zood digution you have 
an ostrich stomach.—B, Jonsen, Beery Man in Hts 


Bwmowr, i 1 (1208). 

Tll make thee eat iron Hke an ostrich, and ewallew 
okt evens. 2 Menry V1. ext lv. ec. 10 
Ow... If owls screech with a hoares 
and dismal voice, it bodes impending 


calamity. (See Ow, p. 718.) 
The owlé that of deth the bodé bringsth. 
Chaucer, Assembly of Soules (1380). 


Prrican. A pelican feeds its young 
brood with its blood. 

The pelican turneth her beak against ber brest, ant 
che mourtebeth her 


it tll the blood gush ont, waerewtth 
Natural Bit beg, Tonns —Eugenian Philaistees, Brief 


Now I will believe, . . . that in Arabia 
There is one tree, the phamiz’ thrune ; one phomnilz 
At this bour reigning there. 

, Shakespeare, The Tempest, act lil. sc. 3 (1600). 
The phoenix is said to have fift 
orifices in its bill, continued to its tail. 
After living its 1000 or 500 years, it 
builds itself a funeral pile, sings a me- 
lodious elegy, flaps its wings to fan the 

fire, and is urnt to ashes. 
The enchanted pile of that lonely bird 


t. Moore, Le Lalla Booth" ( Faradioe and. ” 1817), 

The phoenix has appeared five times in 
Egypt: (1) in the reign of Sesostris ; (2) 
in the reign of Amasis; (3) in the reigm 
of Ptolemy Philadelphos ; ; (4) a little 
prior to the death of Tiberius ; and (/) 
during the reign of Constantine. Tacitus 
mentions the frat three (Annales, vi. 28). 

Pic. In the fore feet of pigs is a very 
small hole, which may be seen when the 
pig is dead and the hair carefully re- 
moved. The legend is that the devils 
made their exit from the awine through 
the fore feet, and left these holes. There 
are also six very minute rings round 
each hole, and these are said to have 
been made by the devils’ claws (Afark v. 
11-13). 

When pigs carry straws in their mouth, 
rain is at hand. 

When swine carry bottles of hay or straw to hide 
rain ts at hand.— The Husbundman’s Pructice, 137 (1684). 

When young pigs are taken from the 
sow, they must be drawn away back- 
wards, or the sow will be fallow. 


Tha bannn Af neeiann Vi. df - ---- 








SUPERSTITIONS. 


959 SUPERSTITIONS. 





will in due time resume his proper form 
and rule over his people gloriously. 

The raven was white till it turned tell- 
tale, and informed Apollo of the faith- 
lessness of Cordnis. Apollo shot the 
nymph for her infidelity, but changed 
the plumage of the raven into inky 
blackness for his officious prating.— 
Ovid, Metamorphoses, ii. 

He [| 4 pol’e} blacked the raven o’er, 

4nd bid him prate in his white plumes no more. 
Addison's of Ovid, it. 

If ravens gape against the sun, heat 
will follow ; but if they busy themselves 
in preening or washing, there will be 


rain. 
Rem’ora. A fish called the remora can 
arrest a ship in full sail. 
A little Sah that mea call remora, 
Which stopped her course, .. . 
That wind nor tide could move her. 
Spenser, Sonnets (1581). 
Rosix. The red of a robin's breast is 
produced by the blood of Jesus. While 
the ‘‘ Man of sorrows" was on His way to 
Caivary, a robin plucked a thorn from 
His temples, and a drop of blood, falling 
on the bird, turned its bosom red. 
Another legend is that the robin used 
to carry dew to refresh sinners parched 
in hell, and the scorching heat of the 
flames turned its feathers red. 
He brings cool dew in his Hetke bill, 
And jets it fall on the souls of sin; 
You can see the mark on his red breast stfll, 
Of fires that scorch as he droye it in. 
J.G. Whittier, The Robin. 
If a robin finds a dead body unburied, 
it will cover the face at least, if not the 


whole body.—Grey, On » ii. 
226. 


The robins a red, now thess babies are dead, 
Kipe strawberry leaves doth over them spread. 
Babes in the Weed. 


It is unlucky either to keep or to kill 
a robin. J. H. Pott says, if any one 
attempts to detain a robin which has 
sought hospitality, let him ‘‘ fear some 
new calamity.”—Puems (1780). 

SALAMANDER. The salamander lives 
in the fire. 

Should a gisa-bouse fre he kept up without extine. 
thon for more Uhan seven years, there is no duubt but that 
a mlamander will be generated in the cinders.—J. P. 
Andrews, 4 necdutes, etc., 350. 

The salamander seeks the hottest fire 
© breed in, but soon quenches it by the 
extreme coldness of its body.—Pliny, 
Nutural Histury, x. 67; xxix. 4, 

Food touched by a salamander is 
poisonous.— Ditto, xxix. 20. 

SALIVA. ‘The humano saliva is a cure 
for blindness.— Ditto, xxviii. 7. 

If a man spits on a serpent, it will die. 
—Ditto, vii 2. 


The human saliva is a charm against 
fascination and witchcraft. 
Thrice on my breast I epit, to guard me enfe 
Theocrites. 


To unbewitch the bewitched, you must spit into the 
shoe of your right foot. —Soot, Discsverie of Witeheras® 


Spitting for luck is a most commopr 
superstition. 

Fishwomen generally spit upon their hansel.—Grom. 

A blacksmith who has to shoe a stub- 
born horse, spits in his hand to drive off 
the “ evil spirit.” 

The swarty emith spits In bis buckthorne fst. L 

If a pugilist spits in his hand, his blows 
will be more telling.—Pliny, Natural 
History, xxviii. 7. 

Scorpion. Scorpions sting themselves. 

Scorpions have an oil which is a 
remedy for their stings. 

‘Tie true the scorpion's ofl is snid 
To cure the wounds the venom made, 
8. Butler, Fudébras, til, 2 (1678). 

Sprper. It is unlucky to kill a money- 
spinner, 
yas cate near Par 
person on whom they attach themesives,—Park. 

The bite of a spider is venomous. 

No spider will spin its web on an Irish 
oak. 
Spiders will never set their webs on a 
cedar roof.—Caughey, Letters (1845). 

Spiders indicate where gold is to be 
found. (See Spipers InpicatTors oF 
Govp.) 

There are no spiders in Ireland, because 
St. Patrick cleared the island of all 
vermin. 

Spiders envenom whatever they touch. 

A spider necyed. and one may drink, depart, 
And yet partake nu evil my 
Shakespeare, Wins<r's Tale, act if. se. 1 (1608. 

A spider enclosed in a quilt and hung 
round the neck will cure the ague.— 
Mrs. Delany, A Letter duted March 1, 
1743. 

I... three about and 
brithd say eae away. Eline Ashmole, bers reeniard 

A spider worn in a nutshell round the 
neck 1s a cure for fever. 

Cured by the wearing a spider hang rouad one's neck in @ 


Longfellow, Evangeline, Ui. (130A. 
Spiders spin only on dark days, 


Spiders have a natural antipathy te 





SUPERSTITIONS. 





Tt is dedicated ts the moon, and in 
metallurgy stands for silver. 

D1aMOnp produces somnambulism, and 
promotes spiritual ecstasy.—R. B. 

The diamond is an emblem of inno- 
cence, and is dedicated to April and the 
sun. In the Zodiac it stands for Virgo, 
in metallurgy for gold, in Christian art 
invulnerable faith. 

EMERALD promotes friendship and 
ponstancy of mind.—R. B. 

If a serpent fixes its eyes on an 
emerald, it becomes blind.—Ahmed ben 
Abdalaziz, Treatise on Jeicels. 

The emerald is an emblem of success 
im love, and is dedicated to May. In the 
Zodiac it signifies Cancer. It is dedicated 
to Mars, in metallurgy it means iron, and 
in Christian art is given to St. John. 

GFARNKT preserves health and joy.—R. B. 

The garnet is an emblem of constancy, 
and, like the jacinth, is dedicated to 
January. 

This was the carbuncle of the ancients, 
which they said gave out light in the dark. 

OADSTONE produces somnambulism. 
—k. B. 

It is dedicated to Mercury, and in 
metallurgy means quicksilver. 

Mvoonsrone has the virtue of making 
trees fruitful, and of curing epilepsy.— 
Dioscorides. 

It contains in it an image of the moon, 
representin,s its increase and decrease 
everv month.—Andreas Baccius. 

Onrx contains in it an imprisoned 
devil, which wakes at sunset and causes 
terror to the wearer, disturbing sleep 
with ugly dreams.—R. B. 

Cupid, with the sharp point of his 
arrows, cut the nails of Venus during 
sleep, and the parings, falling into the 
Indus, sank to the bottom and turned 
into onyxes.—S., 212. 

In the Zodiac it stands for Aquarius ; 
some nay it is the emblem of August and 
conjugal love; in Christian art it sym- 
bolizes sincerity. 

Ora is fatal to love, and sows discord 
between the giver and receiver.—R. B. 

Given as an engayement token, it is 
sure to bring ill luck. 

The opal is an emblem of hope, and is 
dedicated to October. 

Kuny. The Burmese believe that rubies 
mpen like fruit. They say a ruby in its 
crude state is colourless, and, as it matures, 
changes tirst to yellow, then to green, 
then to blue, and [lastly to a brilliant red, 
its highest state of perfection and ripe- 
ners.—S., 142. 


4] 





961 SURFACE. 


The ruby signifies Aries in the Zodiacal 
signs ; but some give it to December, and 
make it the emblem of brilliant success. 

SaPpPHIRE produces somnambulism, 
and impels the wearer to all good works. 
—R. B. 


In the Zodiac it signifies Leo, and in 
Christian art is dedicated to St. Andrew 
emblematic of his heavenly faith and 
good hope. Some give this gem to April. 

Topaz is favourable to hemorrhages, 
imparts strength, and promotes digestion. 


Les anclens regardaient la topase comme utile contre 
Tépilepeie et la mélancolle,—Bouillet, Diet. Unia. des 
Beiences, etc. (1865). 

The topaz is an emblem of fidelity, and 
is dedicated to November. In the Zodiac 
it signifies Taurus, and in Christian art is 
given to St. James the Less. 

Turquoise, given by loving hands, 
carries with it happiness and good fortune. 
Its colour always pales when the well- 
being of the giver is in peril.—S., 170. 

The turquoise is an emblem of proe- 

rity, and is dedicated to December. 
Me is dedicated to Saturn, and stands for 
lead in metallurgy. 

A bouquet composed of diamonds, 
loadstones, and sapphires combined, ren- 
ders a person almost invincible and 
wholly irresistible.—R. B. 

All precious stones are purified by 
honey. 


All kinds of precious stones cast into become 
more brilliant thereby, ench according to its and 
all persons become more acceptable when they join de- 
votion to their graces. H 4d cares are sweetened 
thereby, love ts more loving, and busines macre 
—e Francis de Balin, The Devout Life, til. 13 
( 


Supporters in Heraldry repre- 
sent veges who supported the banner. 


These es, before the Tudor iod, 
were dressed in imitation of the beasts, 
etc., which typified the bearings or cog- 
nizances of their masters. 

Sura, any one ethical revelation; thus 
each chapter of the Kordn is a Sura. 

respecting therm, to declare wnto them thet 
which isin their bearts.—4/ Korda, ix. 

Surface (Sir Oliver), the rich uncle 
of Joseph and Charles Surface. He ap- 
pears under the assumed name of Pre- 
mium Stanley. 

Charles Surface, a reformed scape- 

and the accepted lover of Maria 
the rich ward of sir Peter Teazle. In 
Charles, the evii of his character was all 
on the surface. 


William Smith [1730-1790], To portray the stage 
ee eee moot of pumtiitey pretension 


8a 








SUTTON. 968 


‘Sutton (Sir William), uncle of Hero 
Sutton the City maiden.—S, Knowles, 
Woman's Wil, ete. (1838). 


Suwarrow (Alercnder), a Russian 
geterala noted for his slaughter of the 
‘oles in the suburbs of Warsaw in 17)4, 
and the still more shameful butchery of 
them on the bridge of Prague. After 
having massacred 80,000 in cold blood, 
Suwartow went to return thanks to God 
“for giving him the vietory.” Camp- 
bell, in his Pleasures of Hope, 1., refera 
to this butchery ; and lord Hyron, in Don 
Jwin, vii., 8, 55, to the Turkish ex pedi- 
tion (1786-1792). 
A town whirh did a fumous slege endure... 
Hy buraral of Angled Pownrrow, .—. 
fron, Jon Je, vil, 6 (La). 
Suganne, the wife of Chalomel the 
chemist and drugygist.—J. RK. Ware, 


Piperman's Prediwament, 


Swallow Stone. The swallow is 
anil to bring home from the sea-shore o 
stine Which gives sight to her fledglings, 
i in the terme they cllmted to the popolous oats on 

the ralbers, 
Beckling with asgner ees thal wondrous stone which the 
reallew 
ot from the shore of the smn, to restore the aight of its 
ely Ura 





Longfellow, Feangelina, |, 1 (L540), 

Swallow's Nest, the highest of the 
four castles of the German family called 
Landschaden, built on o pointed rock 
almost inaccessible. ‘The founder was a 
noted robber-knight. (See “Swallow,” 
p. ii.) 

Swan. Fionnuala, daughter of Lir, 
was transformed into a swan, and 


vears over the Inkea and rivers of Ire- 


land, till the introduction of Christianity | 


inte that island, 

T. Mowre has a poem on this subject in 
his fresh Meletes, entitled “* The Sung of 
Ficnnuala” (1S14), 


Sion (The), called the bird of Apollo 


or of (irpheus (2 sy/,). 
j' shed, ) 

Swan (The Anvpht of the), Helias ki 
of J.vleferte, son of king Orient an 
Beatrice. ‘This Beatrice had eight chil- 
dren al a lirth, one of which was o 
dauchter, The niother-in-law (Mata- 
Lriune) stele these children, and changed 
al! of then, except Ileling, into swana, 
Helias spent all his life in quest of his 
aister mivl brothers, that he might dis- 
enchant them and restore them to their 
human fertia.— Thoms, Larly Bnglish 
Prose Aun, li, (1868), 


(See “* Swan,” 


from the Beauc 


| con- | 
demned to wander for many hundred | 





SWANE. 


Eustachias veolt ad Dalllon of domom dock 
wor era? militis qu! vocabeior “ Miles Cygnil~ 
berg. Le Cheeulier ou Cygme 

Swan (The Mantuan), Virgil, born at 
Mantua (a,c. 70-19), 

Swan (The Order of the). This order 
waa instituted by Frederick IJ. of Bran- 
denburg, in commemoration of the 
mythical “ Knight of the Swan" (1443). 

Swan Alley, London, So called 
mpa, who at one time 
lived there, and whose cognizance is a 


SWal, 


Swan-Tower of Cleves. So called 
because the house of Cleves professed to 
be descended from the “‘Knight of the 
Swan" (g.0.). 


Swan of Avon (The Sweet), Shake- 
speare was so called by Ben Jonson 
(1564-1616). 

Swan of Cambray, Fenelon arch- 
bishop of Cambray (1651-1715). 

Swan of Lichfield, Miss Anna 
Seward, poetess (1747-1809), 

Swan of Padua, count Francesco 
Alyarotti (1712-1764). 

Swan of the Meander, Homer, a 
native of Asia Minor, where the Meander 
flows (fl. n.c. 950). 

Bwan of the Thames, John 
Taylor, '“ water-poet " (1580-164). 

Taylor, thelr betier Charon, lems an cnr, 





Ones Swan of Thame, tho’ wow be no ore, 
Pope, The Dewedad, |i. 1) (17ZSL 
Bwans and Thunder, It ia said 


| that swans cannot hatch without a crack 
_ of thunder. 


Without doubt, thunder is 
not unfrequent about the time of the year 
when swane hatch their young. 


Swane (1 sy.) or Swe za 
named ‘“Fork-Leard,” king of ood 
joins Alaff or Olaf {Ty ee veien] in an 
invasion uf England, was acknowledged 
king, and kept his court at Gainsbu 
He commanded the monks of St. 
Edmund's Iury to furnish him a 4s 
sum of money, and as it was not fo 
coming, went on horseback at the head of 
his host to destroy the minster, when he 
was stabbed to death by an unknown 
hand. The legend is that the murdered 
St. Edmund rose from his grave ond 
emote him, 


Tha Denes landed here again . 
Wilh theme diserderesd! troope by Ataf? hither 
la gg. Bwana , ty 


Whe washed his se-vet knife in Peene's relentless 
Drayton, Pidpeliden, nik, nil OLN. 





SWING. 





everknown. J. 3. Johnson, in 1471, won 
the championship for swimming. 


Swing (Captain), a name assumed 
by ccrtain persons who, between 150 
and 1833, used to send threatening |ctters 
to those who used threshing-machines. 
The letters ran thus: 


Sir, if you do not lay by your threshing-machina, you 
will hear frum 8Bwing. 


Swiss Family Robinson. This 
tale is an abridgment of a German tale 
by Joachim Heinrich Kampe. 

Switserland (Franconian), the cen- 
tral district of Bavaria. 


Switzerland (The Saxon), the district 
of Saxony both sides of the river Elba. 


Switzers, guards attendant on a 
king, irrespective of their nationality. 
So called because at one time the Swiss 
were always ready to fight for hire. 

The king, in Hamlet, says, ‘‘ Where are 
my Switzera 2?” i.e. my attendants ; and in 
Paris to the present day we may sce written 
up, Parlez aw Smsse (“speak to the 
porter”), be he Frenchman, German, or 
of any other nation. 

Law. kicke, and the Switsers may be hire! to fight 
for anybody. — Nashe, Christ's Tears ony Jrraisien 
(1504). 

Swiveller (+r. Dick), a dirty, amart 
young man, living in apartments near 
Drury Lane. His language was ex- 
tremely flowery, and interlarded with 
quotations: ‘What's the odis,” said 
Mr. Swiveller, @ propos of nothing, ** a0 
lony as the fire of the soul is kindled at 
the taper of conwiviality, and the wing 
of friendship never moults a feather?" 
His dress was a brown body-coat with a 
reat many brass buttons up the front, 
and only one behind, a bright check 
neckeloth, a plaid waistcoat, soiled white 
trousers, and a very limp hat, worn the 
wrony side foremost to hide a hole in the 
brim. The breast of his coat was orma- 
mented with the cleanest ead of a very 
large pocket-handkerchief; his dirty 
wristbands were pulled down and folded 
over his cuffs; he had no gloves, and 
carried a yellow cane having «a bone 
handle and a little ring. He was for 
ever humming some dismal air. He said 
min for “man,” fort, jine ; called wine 
or apirits * the roay,” sleep “the balmy,” 
and yenerally shouted in conversatiun, 
as if making a speech from the chair of 
the “Glonous Apollera” of which he 
was perpetual ‘‘yrand.” Mr. Swiveller 
looked amiably towards Miss Sophy 
Wachles, of Chelsea. Qailp introduced 








SWORD. 


him as clerk to Mr. Samson Brasa, 
solicitor, Bevis Marks. Hy Quilp’s re- 
ep he waa afterwards turned away, 
fell sick of a fever, through which he was 
norsed by “the marchioness™ (a poor 
house-drab), whom he married, and was 
left by bis aunt Rebecca an annuity of 
£125. 


"Le that o femlleder to go anal pay f* ool Trent, with @ 
mer 1“ Bot evactly, Frei,” repliel Richard “ | enie 
ln this tthe book the names of the streets thai | con't go 
doewo while the shops are open. This dimmer io-~day closes 
Long Acre, | boughia pair of boots in Greet Q 
Btreet lad week, aod macs thal ‘no thoroughiare tom 
There's only one ayenus to the Biren! left open gow, 
cod | shal) here to stop op thet to-night with a pale of 
g@iowes, Tha rosds erp chelng ww lost in every direction, 
that in shoot o menith’) tins, goles oy sunt ods me a 
remittance, | shal! have to go three or fuur miles cut of 
town to gel ower the way.-—C, Dickens, Tha Od 
Curienity Shop, will (1A, 


Sword. (For the names of the most 
famous swords in history and fiction, see 
Dictionary of Phrase and Fale, 869,) 
Add the following :— 

Ali's aword, Zulfagar. 

Koll the Thrall’s sword, named Grey- 
stecl. 

Ovier the Dane had two sworda, made 
by Munifican, viz., Sauvagine and Cour. 
tain or Curtina, 
hie [Ggéer) drew Courtaln bls reord from cut 'ts wbemth, 

W. Morris, Sartk!y Pareles, 

Strong-o-the-Arm had three swords, 
viz., Baptism, Flerence, and Garban made 
by Ansias. 

Sword (The Marvel of the). When 
king Arthur first appears on the scen 





\ he is brought into notice by the ‘* Marv 


of the Sword;” and air Galahad, who 
was to achieve the huly praal, was intro- 


. duced to knighthood by a similar adven- 


ture. That of Arthur is thus described : 


ln the greatest chorch of London . .. thers wes eee 
in the churchyard against te high altar « greed dio 
foursyuare like ti i marie atime, ated bis Use onllcbat, | 
ww af ail uf steel & foot in hewght, and thervin stock 
Sfalreword nobel! by the jadnt, cel lejien of gold were 
written aleut the promi that aul this: Whom pwiecth 
OG eed of Dik atom oa aani/, is riphiwrios hing 
fore af Legian. [Arthor was fhe only person whe 
eeuld draw uoce! aed wo he wos acl io fe the 
ripitial dimg.}—Pt loo 


The sword adventure of sir Galahad, at 
the aye of 15, is thus given: 

Tha king afd bie knigho cums t the river, end they 
Poured there i tere Fuatiog, aa it he) teen of real cumrlibe, 
wae) there stuck «a toi rich eword, and in the perme 
thered sare preclouws stones wrough! with exbiil letter af 
gokl Then the barons real! te leijers, which cell ip 
this wis: Weeer oha/! man dake me hence, bead only ha 
by whom / ongpht fo hang, ome! he wholly be fhe beat & 
af the werd. [Sir Goldie! drew fhe moor early. 
mw Wher kmight wae tbe to pall Uf forth. Birt, Malery, 
Nilstery of Prince Arther, lil 3, U1 (1470). 


A somewhat similar adventure occurs 
in the Amddis de Gawl, Whoever sue 
eeeded in drawing from a rock an en- 
chanied sword, was to gain access to 9 








SYLLI. 967 


SYPHAX, 





Wounds of Civil War, lively set forth in 
the True Trayedies of Marius and Sylia. 


Sylli (Sijnor), an Italian exquisite, 
who walks fantastically, talks affectedly, 
and thinks himself irresistible. He makes 
love to Cami’ola “‘the maid of honour,” 
and fancies, by posturing, grimaces, and 
affectation, to ‘‘make her dote on him.” 
He says to her, “In singing, | am a 
Siren,” in dancing, a Terpsichore. ‘‘ Ele 
could tune a ditty lovely well,’ and 
prided himself ‘‘on his pretty spider 
fingers, and the twinkling of his two 
eves.” Of course, Camidla sees no charms 
in these effeminacies ; but the conceited 
puppy says he ‘‘is not so sorry for him- 
self as he is for her” that she rejects 
him. Signor Sylli is the silliest of all 
the Syllis.—Massinger, The Mud of 
Honour (1637), (See TAPPERTIT.) 


Sylvia, daughter of justice Balance, 
and an heiress. She is in love with 
captain Plume, but promised her father 
not to ‘dispose of herself to any man 
witheut his consent.” As her father 
feared Plume was too much a libertine to 
make a steady husband, he sent Sylvia 
into the country to withdraw her from 
his society ; but she dressed in her 


brother's military suit, assumed the name | 


of Jack Wilful alias Pinch, and enlisted. 
When the names were called over by the 
justices, and that of ‘‘Pinch” was 
ought forward, justice Balance “ gave 
his consent for the recruit to dispose of 
[Aimself] to captain Plume,” and the 
permission was kept to the letter, though 
not in its intent. However, the matter 
had gone too far to be revoked, and the 
father made up his mind to bear with 
Grace what without disgrace he could not 
prevent.—G. Farquhar, Zhe Recruiting 
Ofliver (1705). 

Lam troulted neither with spleen, cholic, nor vapours. 
Tonesl no wits for my stomech, nu hartshorn for my 
heat, nor wash fue my completion. Iocan gatbop all the 
morning after the bunting-born, and all the evening after 
8 Olde —Acthe sn 

Sylvio de Rosalva (Jun), the hero 
and title of a novel by C. M. Wieland 
(1743. 1813). Don Sylvie, a quixotic be- 
liever in fairyixm, is gradually converted 
to common sense by the extravagant 
demands which are made on his belief, 
assisted by the charms of a mortal 
beauty. The object of this romance is a 
crusade aainst the sentimentalism and 
religious foolery of the period. 


ymkyn (Symond), nicknamed “ Dis- 
dainful,” a miller, living at Trompington, 
near Cambridge. Ilis face was round, 


his nose flat, and his skull *‘ pilled as as 
ape’s.” He was a thief of corn and meal, 
but stole craftily. His wife was the 
village parson’s daughter, very proud 
and arrogant. He tried to outwit Aleyn 
and John, two Cambridge scholars, but 
was himself outwitted, and most roughly 
handled also.—Chaucer, Canterbury Tules 
(*‘ The Reeve’s Tale,” 1388). 


Symmes’s Hole. Captain John Cleve 
Symines maintained that there was, at 
82° N. lat., an enormous opening through 
the crust of the earth into the globe. 
The place to which it led he asserted to 
be well stocked with animals and Plante, 
and to be lighted by two under-groun 
planets named Pluto and Proserpine. 
Captain Symmes asked sir Humphrey 
Davy to accompany him in the explora- 
tion of this enormous “hole” (*-1829). 

Halley the astronomer (1656-1742) and 
Holberg of Norway (1684-1754) believed 
in the existence of this hole. 


Symon’ides the Good, king of 
Pentap’olis.—Shakespeare, Pericles Prince 
of Tyre (1608). 


Symphony (The Father of), Francis 
Joseph Haydn (1732-1809). 


ple’gades (4 syi.), two rocks 
at the entrance of the Euxine Sea. To 
navigators they sometimes look like one 
rock, and sometimes the light between 
shows they are two. Hence the ancient 
Greeks said that they opened and shut. 
Olivier says ‘“‘they appear united or 
joined together according to the place 
whence they are viewed.” 
-. » when Argo passed 
Through Bosphorus, betwixt the justling rocas. 
Milton, Paradise Leet, tl. 1017 (1685). 
Synia, the portress of Valhalla.— 
Scandinavian Mythology. 


Syntax (/r.), a simple-minded, 
pious, hen-pecked clergyman, green as 
grass, but of excellent taste and scholar- 
ship, who left home in search of the 
picturesque. His adventures are told. by 
Villiam Coombe in eight-syLlable ve 
called The Tour of Dr. Syntux in Search 
of the Picturesque (1812). 

Dr. Syntaz's Horse was called Grizzle, 
all skin and bone. 


Synter’esis, Conscience personifiat. 
On her a damee!i still 
And faithful counsellor, Syn ter esis, 
Phineas Fletcher, The Purple /siand, vi. (1688). 
Syph chief of the Arabs who 
joined the ptian armament against 
the crusaders. ‘The voices of these 





TAFFRIL. 969 


TAILLEFER. 





the whole Christmas holidays, and had 
been a nightmare to it for half its child- 
life. This amiable creature was about to 
marry May Fielding, when her old sweet- 
heart Edward Plummer, thought to be 
dead, returned from South America, and 
marred her. Tackleton was reformed by 
Peerybinyle, the carrier, bore his disap- 
intment manfully, sent the bride and 
ridegroom his own wedding-cake, and 
oined the festivities of the marriage 
banquet.—C. Dickens, The Cricket on the 
Hearth (1845). 


Taffril (Lieutenant), of H.M. gun- 
brig Search, He is in love with Jenny 
Caxton the milliner.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe 
Antiquary (time, George 1I1.). 


Taffy, a Welshman. The word is 
simply Davy (uvid) pronounced with 
aspiration. David is the most common 
Welsh name; Sawney (Alcxcander), the 
most common Scotch; Pat (/utric), 
the most common Irish ; and John (JoAn 
Bull), the most common English. So 
we have cousin Michael for a German, 
Micaire for a Frenchinan, Colin Tampon 
for a Swiss, and brother Jonathan in the 
United States of North America. 


Tag, wife of Puff, and lady's-maid to 
Miss Biddy Bellair.—D. Garnck, dfiss in 
Her Teens (1753). 


Tahmuras, a king of Persia, whose 
exploits in Fairv-land among the peris 
and deevs are fully set forth by Richard- 
son in his Lissertution. 


Tail made Woman (Man's), 
According to North American legend, 
God in anger cut off man's tail, and out 
of it made woman. 


Tails (Men with). The Niam-niams, 
an African race between the gulf of 
Benin and Abyssinia, are said to have 
tails. Mons, de Castlenau (1851) tells us 
that the Niam-niams ‘have tails forty 
centimetres long, and between two and 
three centimetres in diameter,” Dr. 
Hubsch, physician to the hospitals of 
Constantinople, says, in 1853, that he 
carefully examined a Niam-niam negress, 
and that her tail was two inches long, 
Mons. d'Abbadie, in his Abyssinian 
Trarcls (1452), tella us that south of the 
Herrar 1s a place where all the men have 
tails, but not the females, ‘1 have 
examined,” he save, ‘fifteen of them, 
and am positive that the tail is a natural 
appendage, Dr. Wolf, in his Zracels and 
ventures, ti. (1861), says: ‘* There are 


both men and women in Abyssinia with 
tails like dogs and horses.” He heard that, 
near Narea, in Abyssinia, there were men 
and women with tails so muscular that 
they could ‘‘knock duwn a horse with 
a blow.” 

John Struys,a Dutch traveller, says, in 
his Voyayes (1850), that ‘‘all the natives 
on the south of Formosa have tails.” 
He adds that be himself 
one of these islanders wi 
than a foot long.” 

It is said that the Ghilane race, which 
numbers between 80,000 and 40,000 souls, 
and dwell ‘‘far beyond the Senaar,’ 
have tails three or four inches long. 
Colonel du Corret assures us that he 
himself most carefully examined one of 
this race named Hellal, a slave belonging 
to an emir in Mecca; whose house he 
frequented.— World o Wonders, 206. 

The Poonangs of 
a tail-bearing race. 

Indivadual Examples. Dr. Hubsch, re- 
ferred to above, says that he examined 
at Constantinople the son of a physician 
whom be knew intimately, who had a 
decided tail, and so had his grandfather. 

In the middle of the present (the 
nineteenth) century, all the newspapers 
made mention of the birth of a boy at 
Newcastle-on-Tyne with a tail, which 
‘* wagged when he was pleased.” 

In the College of Surgeons at Doblin 
may be seen a human skeleton with a 
tail seven inches long. 

Tuils given by way of Punishment. 
Polvdore Ve if asserts that when 
Thomas a Becket came to Stroud, the 
mob cut off the tail of his horse, and in 
eternal reproach, ‘‘both they and their 
offspring bore tails.” Lambarde repeats 
the same story in his Perambulation of 
Arent (1576). 

For Becket’s sake Kent always shall have talls.—Andrew 
Marvel. 


John Bale, bishop of Ossory in the 
reign of Edward VI, tells us that John 
Capyrave and Alexander of Esseby have 
stated it as a fact that certain Dorsetshire 
mien cast fishes’ tails at St. Augustine, in 
consequence of which ‘‘the men of this 
county have borne tails ever since.” 

We all know the tradition that Corn'sh 
men are born with tails. 


Taillefer, a valiant warrior and 
minstrel in the army of William the 
Conqueror, At the battle of Hastings 
(or Senlac) he stimulated the ardour of 
the Normans by songs in praise of 
Charlemagne and Holand. The soldier- 


rsonally saw 
a tail ‘‘ more 


meo are said to be 








TALES. 


971 


‘TALISMAN. 





love; and so on. The second tale has 
been dramatized. 

Tulea (Oriental), by the eomte de 
Cavlus, originally in French (1749). A 
weries of tales supposed to be told by 
Moradbak, a girl of 14, t» Hudjadge 
shah of Persia, whe could not sleep. It 
contains the tale of ‘* The Seven Sleepers 
of Ephesus.” (See Momapnak, p, 658.) 


Tales of a Grandfather, in three 


eeries, by sir W. Scott; told to Hugh Little- | 


john, who was between five and 61x years 
of ave (1828). ‘These tales are supposed to 
be taken from Seotch chronicles, and 
embrace the most prominent and graphic 
incidents of Seoteh history. Series 1., 
to the amalgamation of the two crowna 
in James J. ; series il., to the union of 
the two parliaments in the reyn of 
queen Anne; series iti., to the death 
of (Charles Edward the Youny Pretender. 


Tales of My Landlord, tales sup- 
weed to le told bw the landlord of the 
Wallace inn, in the parish of (Gander- 
clench, “edited anil arranged by Jededimh 
Cleishhotham, schoolmaster and parish 
clerk “of the sume parish, but in reality 
corrected and arranged by his usher, 
Peter or Patrick Pattison, who lived to 
complete five of the novela, but died 
before the last two were issued, These 
novels are arranged thus: First Series, 
“The Black Dwarf” and “Old Mor- 
tality; Sevond Sories, “ Heart of Mid- 
lothion;” Yhird Senes, “* inde of Lam- 
inermnoor” and “Levend of Montrose ;" 
f'ssthunnws, “Count Robert of Paria” 
and “(Castle Danyerous.”"—Sir W, Scott. 
(See Jiluck Dwars, introductiun.) 


Tales of the Crusaders, br sir 
W. Seott, include The Hetruthed and The 


Talisncan, 


Tales of the Genii, that is, tales 
told by penit to Imeagem their chief, 
fespecting their tutclary charges, or how 
they had discharged their functions ns 
the guardian geni of man, T’atna and 
Coulor, children of Giualar (iman of 
Terki), were permitted to hear these 
accourtta rendered, and hence they have 
reached) our earth, The geniva Ibar- 
hadidan related the historv of his tutelary 
charge of Aliu’dah, a merchant of Bagdad, 
The penize Manilouk told how he had 
been emploved in watching over the 
dervise Alfvuran, Next, Omphrm re- 
counted his lalwurs aa the tutelar pening 
of Ilassan Assar rate of Hagdad. The 
genius [Josyorack tells his experience in 





| their battle of life. 


the tale of Kelann and Guzzarat. The 


fifth was a female genius, by name 
Houadir, who told the tale of Urad, the 
fair wanderer, her ward on earth. Then 
rose the sage genius Macoma, and told 
the tale of the sultan Misnar, with the 
episodes of Mahoud and the princess of 
Cassimir. The affable Adiram, the tutelar 
genius of Sadak and Kalas'rade, told of 
Last of all rose the 
venerable genius Nadan, and recounted 
the history of his earthly charge named 
Mirglip the dervise. These tales are from 
the Persian, and are ascribed to Hloram 
son of Asmar, 


Talgol, « butcher in Newgate market, 
who obtained a captain's commission in 
Cromwell's army for his bravery at 
Naseby. 

Talgol waa of oocirage gout... 
Tovrea! to labeour, ere, cael toll, 


Ac likes chomplom, shong with afl, . . 
He tiany a boar aril huge don row 


Ded. like another Gey, oerthrow .. . 

With gremer tranpe of cheep he'd foul 

Titan Ages of trode deem Qabnsoler, 

B Bother, sfucdibres, 1 2 (emmy, 
Taliesin or Tauiessin, son of St 

Henwig, chief of the bards of the Weat, 
in the time of king Arthur (sixth cen-- 
tury). In the Mahbineyion is given the 
legends connected with him, several 
aperimens of his sons, and all that is 
historically known abouthim. The burst- 
ing in of the sea through the neglect of 
Seithenio, who had charge of the em- 
bankment, and the ruin which it brought 
on Gwyddlno Garanhir, is allegorized by 
the bursang of a pot called the “ caldron 
of imapiration,” through the reglect of 


| Gwion Hach, who was set to watch it. 


That Tiliamen, once which male the rivers dance, 


| Atel iio hi rey tore roid the mountain from thelr tees, 


Shall crewible af my verses. 
Drayton, Polpoliion, bv. (1612), 

Talisman (The), a novel by sir W, 
Scott, and one of the best of the thirty- 
two which he wrote (1825). Jt is the 
atery of Richard Cour de Lion being 
cure! of a fever in the Holy Land, by 
Saladin, the soldan, bis noble enemy, 
Saladin, hearing of bis illness, assnmed 
the disguise of Adonbee el Ilakim, the 
physician, and visited the king. He filled 
a cup with apring water, into which 4 
dipped the talisman, o little red purse 
that he took from his bosom, and when it 
had been steeped long enouh, he gave 
the draught to the king to drink (ch, ix.). 
During the king's sickness, the archdoke 
of Austria planted his own banner beside 
that of England ; but immediately Richard 
recovered from his fever, he tore down 


Se 4 


my | 


ol u 


mee = ae eS 


reese 3 








wove s sssveaWwUren 18 tnat betwee 
sir Kenneth the prince royal of Scotland. 
and lady Edith Plantagenet the king's 
kinswoman, with whose marriage the tale 
concludes. 


Talismans. In order to free a house 
ef vermin, the figure of the obnoxious 
animal should be made in wax in “6 the 


bares lag coe taba Critical In- 
oury Prodigies . . . (1727). 

Me swere that you had robbed his houss, 

And stolen his talismanic louse. 

G. butler, Hudédras, it. 2 (1678). 
The Abraxas stone, a stone with the 

word ABRAXAS engraved on it, is a 
famous talisman. The word symbolizes 
the 965 intelligences between deity and 


man. 

In Arabia, a talisman, consisting of a 
piece of paper containing the names of the 
seven sleepers of Ephesus, is still used, 
‘tto ward the house from ghosts and 
demons.” 

Talismans (The Four). Houna, sur- 
named Seidel-Beckir, a talismanist, made 
three of great value: viz., a little golden 
fish, which would fetch out of the sea 
whatever it was bidden ; a poniard, which 
rendered invisible not only the person 
bearing it, but all those he wished to be 
so; and a ring of steel, which enabled the 
wearer to read the secrets of men’s hearts. 
The fourth talisman was a bracelet, 
which preserved the wearer from poison. 
~-~Comte de Caylus, Oriental Tales (‘‘ The 
Vour Taiismans,” 1743). 


Ye _ 





TALVI. 978 TAMMANY. 





Talvi, a pseudonym of Mira. Robinson. 


It is simply the initials of her maiden | 


name, Thercse Albertine Louise von 


Jakob. 


Tam o’ Todshaw, a huntsman, near 
Charlie's Hope farm.—Sir W. Scott, Guy 
Mannering (time, George II.). 


Tam o’ the Cowgate, the sobriquet 
of sir Thomas Iamilton, a Scotch lawyer, 
who lived in the Cowyate, at Edinburgh 
(®-1563). 


Tamburlaine the Great (or 7i- 
mour Len), the Tartar conqueror. In 
history called Tamerlane. Ife had only 
one hand and was lame (1336-1405). The 
hero and title of a tragedy by C. Marlow 
- (1587). Shakespeare (2 /lenry /V. act ii. 
sc. 4) makes Pistol quote a part of this 
turgid play. 

Holla, ye pampered Jades of Asia. 
What! can ye draw but twenty miles a dag, 


Aud hare eo proud a chariot al your heels, 
And euch « cuachman as great » Lapriaisse f 


(In the stage direction: 

Qater Taniburlaine, drawn Ip his charlot 
and Soria, with bite In thelr mouths, reins 
band, in bis right a whip with which he 
then.) 

N. Rowe has a tragedy entitled Zumer- 
dane (¢.0.). 


Tame (1 sy/.), a river which rises in 
the vale of Aylesbury, at the foot of the 
Chiltern, and hence called by Drayton 
‘*Chiltern’s son.” Chiltern’s son marries 
Isis (Cotswold’s heiress), whose son and 
heir is Thames. This allegory forins the 
subject of song xv. of the /ulyulbion, and 
is the most poctical of them ail. 


Tamer Tamed (The), a kind of 
sequel to Shakespeare’s comedy The 
Juming of the Shrew. In the TJumer 
Tu Petruchio is supposed to marry 
a second wife, by whom lie is hen-pecked. 
— Beaumont and Fletcher (1647). 


Tamerlane, emperor of Tartary, in 
Rowe's trazedy so called, is a noble, 
generous, high-minded prince, the very 
glass and fashion of all conquerors, in his 
forgiveness of wrongs, and from whose 
example Christians may be taught their 
moral code. 
his captive, with trulv godlike clemency, 
till the fierce sultan plots bis assassination. 
Then lonver forbearance would have been 
folly, and the Tartar had his untamed 
captive chained in a cage, like a wild beast. 
—N. Rowe, Zamerlane (1702). 

Jt is anid that Louis XIV. was Rowe's 
** Bajazet,” and William I]1. his ‘‘ Tamsre 
lane." 


Treb'laon 
a his left 


Tamerlane treats Bajazet, | 


¢,° Tamerlane is a corruption of 7¥- 
mour Lenyh (‘‘Timour the lame"). He 
was one-handed and lame also. His 
name was used by the Persians in tere 
roren, (See TAMBURLAINE THE GHEAT.) 


Taming of the Shrew (Tie), a 
comedy by Shakespeare (159-1). 6 
‘‘shrew” is Katrari‘na, elder daughter of 
Baptista of Padua, and she is tamed by 
the stronger mind of Petruchio into a 
most obedient and submissive wife. 

This drama is founded on A pleasaunt 
conceited Historie, called The Taming of 
a Shrew. As it hath beens sundry times 
acted by the right honourable the Earle of 
Pembrooke his servunts, 1607. The in- 
duction is borrowed from Heuterus, Rerum 
Burgundcarum, iv., atranslation cf ~hich 
into English, by E. Grimstone, appeared 
in 1607. The same trick was played by 
Haroun-al-Raschid on the merchant Abou 
Hassan (Ara/nun Nizhts, ‘‘The Sleeper 
Awakened”); and by Philippe the Good 
of Burgundy. (See Burton, Anatomy o 
Jfelancholy, Il. ii. 43 see also The Frolick- 
sume Duke or the Tinker's Good Furtune 
(a ballad), Percy.) 

Beaumont and Fletcher wrote a kind cf 
sequel to this comedy, called 7he TJuimer 
Tuned, in which Petruchio is supposed & 
marry a second wife, by whom he is hen 
pecked (1647). 

The iloneymoon, a comedy by Tobis 
(1804), is a similar plot, but the shrew is 
a a farless display of obstreperous 
self-will. 


Tami’no and Pami’na, the two 
lovers who were guided by the magic flute 
through all worldly dangers to the know- 
ledye of divine truth ibe the mysteries 
of Isis).—Mozart, Die Zuuberslite (1791). 


Tammany, Tamendy, or Tam- 
menund, an Indian chief of the Dola- 
ware nation who lived about the middle of 
the seventeenth century. Hewasa great 
friend of the whites, and was famous 
in tradition for so many other virtues 
that in the Intter days of the Revolution 
he was facetiously adopted as the patron 
snint of the new republic. A society 
enlled the Tammany Suciety was found. 
elin Now York City, May 12, 1789, origi- 
nally for benevolent purposes, but it ulti- 
mately developed intoa mere political ene 
gine, becoming the principal instrument 
of the managers of the Democratic party 
in New York City. In 1871, however, 
tho disclosures as to the corrupt practice 
indulged in by the Tammany chicftains 








TAOUISM. - 978 





TAPWELL. 





verses with the Ritter on supernatural 
subjects, and promises that Venus herself 
shall be his mistress, if he will sum- 
mon ip his courage to enter Venusberg. 
Tannhiuser starts on the mysterious jour- 
ney, and Lisaura, hearing thereof, kills 
herself. At Venusberg the Ritter gives 
full swing to his pleasures, but in time 
returns to Mantua, and makes his con- 
fession to pope Urban. His holiness 
savs to him, ‘' Man, you can no more 
hope for absolution than this staff which 
J hold in my hand can be expected to 
bud.” So Tannhéuser flees in despair from 
Rome, and returns to Venusberg. Mean- 
while, the pope's staff actually does sprout, 
and Urban sends in all directions for the 
Ritter, but he is nowhere to be found. 

Tieck, in his PhAantasus (1812), intro- 
duces the stury. Wagner (in 1845) 
brought out an operatic spectacle, called 
Lunnhduser. The companion of Tann- 
hiiuser was Eckhardt. 

*,* The tale of Tannhiuser is sub- 
stantially the same as that of Thomas 
of Erceldoun, also called ‘‘ Thomas the 
Rhymer," who was so intimate with Fa&ry 
folk that he could foretell what events 
would come to pass. He was also a bard, 
and wrote the famous lay of Sir Tristrem. 
The gereral belief is that the scer is not 
dead, but has been simply removed from 
the land of the living to Fadry-land, 
whence occasionally he emerges, to busy 
himself withhuman affairs. Sir W. S. ott 
haa introduced the legend in Castle Dun- 
gervus, Vv. (See ERCELDOUN, p. 298.) 

Taouism, the system of Taou, that 
invisible principle which pervades every- 
thins. Pope refers to this universal 
divine permeation in the well-known 
lines: it 

Wanns In the sun, refreshes In the breeze, 

Glows io the stare, and biasuome In the trees, 

Lives through all life, extends through all extent, 


Spreads undivided, operates unspent. 
Rassy on Man, i. (1733). 


Tapestercd Chamber (7ic), a 
tale by sir W. Scott, laid in the reign 
of Gseorze TI], There are but two cha- 
racters introduced. General Browne goes 
on a visit to lord Woodville, and sleeps 
in the ‘‘tapestered chamber," which is 
haunted. Je sees the “lady in the 
Sacque,” describes her to lord Woodville 
next morning, and recognizes her picture 
in the portrait gallery. 

The back of this form was turneal to me, and I could 
obeerve, fru the shoukler. amd neck. it was that of an alg 
@uman, whose drew was an old-fadiuned gown, which, 
C Chink, lade call a sacque -that ia, a sort of rube coen- 
pietely nue in the tnafy. but gathered into broad plaite 


epon the neck and sboulders, which fall duwa Ww the 
@manal, and terminate in a specics uf train. 


Tapley (fark), an honest, light- 
hearted young man, whose ambition was 
‘*¢9 come out jclly ” under the most un- 
favourable circumstances. Greatly at- 
tached to Martin Chuzzlewit, he leaves 
his comfortable situation at the Blue 
Dragon to accompany him to America, 
and in ‘‘Eden” has ample opportunities 
of ‘being jolly ” so far as wretchedness 
could make him so. On his return to 
England, he marries Mrs. Lupin, and thus 
becomes landlord of the Blue Dragon. 
—C. Dickens, Martin Chuzzlewit, xiii., 
xxi., etc. (1843). 

Charlies (1'//. of France) was the Mark Tapley of kings, 
and bore himself with his usual ‘* jollity “ under this af 

fo one 


flicting news. It was remarked of him that “ 
could hove a kingdom with greater galoty."—Rev. J 


Tappertit (Sun i.e. Simon), the a 
rentice of Gabriel Varden, locksmi 
le was just 20 in years, but 200 in con- 

ceit. An old-fashioned, thin-faced, sleek- 
haired, sharp-nosed, small-eyed little 
fellow was Mr. Sim Tappertit, about five 
feet high, but thoroughly convinced in 
his own mind that he was both good 
looking and above the iniddle size, in 
fact, rather tall than otherwise. His 
fiyure, which was slender, he was proud 
of ; and with his legs, which in knee- 
breeches were perfect curiosities of little 
ness, he was enraptured. He had also 
a secret notion that the power of his eye 
was irresistible, and he believed that he 
could subdue the haughtiest beauty ‘‘b 

eyeing her.” Of course, Mr. Tappertit 
had an ambitious soul, and admired his 
master's daughter Dolly. He was cap- 
tain of the secret society of ‘‘’Prentice 
Knights,” whose object was “ vengeance 
against their tvrant masters.” After the 
Gordon riots, in which Tappertit took a 
leading part, he was found ‘‘ burnt and 
bruised, with a gun-shot wound in his 
body, and both his leys crushed into 
shapeless u;liness.” The cripple, by the 
locksmith’s aid, turned shoe-black under 
an uaftchway near the Horse Guarda, 
thrived in his vocation, and married the 
widow of a ray-and-bone collector. While 
ap apprentice, Miss Migys, the ‘‘ protest- 
ant" shrewish servant of Mrs. Varden, 
cast an eye of hope on ‘‘Simmun ;" but 
the conceited puppy pronounced her “‘ de- 
cidedly scraggy,” and disregarded the 
soft inpeachment.—C. Dickens, Barnaby 
Rudje (1841). (See SYuut.) 


Taproba‘na, the island of Ceylon.— 
Ariosto, Urlundu Furioso (1516). 


Tapwell (Timothy), husband of 





Cn eee ee a el 


TARTLET. 977 


TATINUS. 





into a large pond, and there the Tartaro 
drowned himself.—Rev. W. Webster, 
Basque Lejends, 1-4 (1876). 

In one of the Basque legends, Tartaro 
is represented as a Polyph*mos, whose 
one eye is bored out with spits made red 
hot by some scamen who had wandered 
inadvertently into his dwelling. Like 
Ulysses, the leader of these seamen made 
his escape by the aid of a ram, but with 
this difference—he did not, like Ulysses, 
cling to the ram's belly, but fastened the 
rain's bell round his neck and threw a 
shecp-skin over his shoulders. When 
Tartaro laid hold of the fugitive, the man 
escaped, leaving the sheep-skin in the 
giant's hand. 


Tartlet (Zim), servant of Mrs. Patty- 
pan, vo whom also he is engaged to be 
married. He says, ‘I loves to see life, 
because vy, ‘tis so agreeable.”—James 
Cobb, Zhe First Floor, i. 2 (1756-1818). 


Tartuffe (2 sy/.), the chicf charncter 
and title of a comedy by Molicre (1664). 
Tartuffe is a religious hypocrite and im- 
postor, who uses ‘‘relizion” as the means 
of gaining money, covering deceit, and 
promoting self-indulgence. He is taken 
up by one Oryon, a man of property, 
who promises him his daughter in mar- 
rinse, but his true character being ex- 
posed, he is not only turned out of the 

ouse, but is lodged in jail for felony. 

Isaac Bickerstaff has adapted Molitre's 
comedy to the English stage, under the 
title of Zhe Hypocrite (1708). Tartuffe 
he calls ‘* Dr. Cantwell,” and Orgon “ sir 
John Lambert.” It is thoucht that “*Tar- 
tuffe" is a caricature of Pere la Chaise, 
the confessor of Louis XIV., who was 
very fond of truffles (French, tartuffes), 
and that this suggested the name to the 
dramatist. 


Zurtufe (Aaiser), William I. the king 
of Prussia and emperor of Germany 
(1797- +). 

I write to you, my dear Augusta, 

To say weve hind a reg'lar ** buster.” 

Tee thouscnd Frenchmen sens below 3 

* Presse Gaal, from wioin all blessings @ow.” 
Punch durin, the Franco-Pnasian war) 


Tartuffe of the Revolution. J. 
N. Pache is so called by Carlyle (1740- 
L823). 

wie Pache sits cleek-headed, frugal, the wonder ef his 
ren ally for humuity of mind... Sig there, Tartaffe, 
30 wanted —Carlyle. 

Tasnar, an enchanter, who aided the 
rebel army arrayed against Misnar sultan 
of lclhi. <A female slave undertook to 
kill the enchanter, and went with the 


sultan's sanction to carry out her promise, 
She presented herself to Tasnar and Ahu’- 
bal, and presented papers which she said 
she had stolen. Tasnar, suspecting a trick, 
ordered her to be bow-strung, and then 
detected a dagger concealed about her 
person. Tasnar now put on the slave's 
dress, and, transformed into her like- 
ness, went to the sultan’s tent. The vizier 
commanded the supposed slave to re 
trate ‘‘ herself” before she approached the 
throne, and while prostrate he cut off 
“her” head. The king was angry, but 
the vizier replied, ‘‘ This is not the slave, 
but the enchanter. Fearing this micht 
occur, I gave the slave a word, which 
this deceiver did not give, and was thus 
betrayed. So perish all the enemies of 
Mahomet and Misnar his vicegerent upon 
earth !"—Sir C. Morell (J. Ridley], Zales 
of the Geni, vi. (1751). 


Tasnim, a fountain in Mahomet's 
paradise ; so called from its being con- 
veyed to the very highess apartments of 
the celestial mansions. 

They shall drink of pure @wine... and the water 
mixed therewith shall be of Tasnim, a fountain whereof 
tho e alull drink who approach sear unto the divine 
presence.—Al Kerdn, lvt. 

Tasso and Leonora. When Tasso 
the poet lived in the court of Alfonso 
II. the reigning duke of Ferrara, he fell 
in love with Leonora d'Este (2 syl.) the 
duke's sister, but ‘“‘she saw it not or 
viewed with disdain” his passion, and 
the poet, monevless, fled half mad to 
Naples. After an absence of two years, 
in which the poet was almost starved to 
death by extreme poverty, his friends, 
tovcther with Leonora, induced the duke 
to receive him back, but no sooner did he 
reach Ferrara than Alfonso sent him to 
an asylum, and here he was kept for 
seven years, when he was liberaved by 
the instization of the pope, but died soon 
afterwards (1544-1595). 


Taste, a farce by Foote (1758), to 
expose the imposition of picture-dealers 
and | sellers of virtu generally. 


Tasting Death. The rabbis say 
there are three drops of gall on the sword 
of death: one drops in the mouth and the 
man dies; from the second the pallor of 
death is suffused; from the third the 
carcase turns to dust.—Purchas, Lis 
Pilgrimage (1613). 

Tati’nus, a Greek who joined the 
crusaders with a force of 200 men armed 
with ‘‘crouked sabres” and bows. These 
Greeks, like the Parthians, were famous 

8 8 





ae ee a eee ee ee ee 


TEARS—AMBEK. YY 





TELEMACHOS., 





Tears—Amber, The tears shed by 
the sisters of Pha'tton were converted 
into amber.—Greek Fuble, 

According to Pliny (Natural History, 
xxxvii. 2, 11), amber is a concretion of 
birds’ tears, but the birds were the sistera 
of Meleiger, who never ceased weeping 
for his untimely death, 


Tearsheet (Doll), a common cour- 
tezan. — Shakespeare, 2 Jieary JV, 
(1598). 


Teazgle (Sir Peter), a man who, in 
old age, marned a country girl that 
proved extravagant, fond of pleasure, 
selfish, and vain. Sir Peter was for ever 
nayiving at ber for her inferior birth and 
rustic wavs, but secretly loving her and 
admiring her nafre/e. He says to Row- 
ley, “‘I am the sweetest-tempered man 
alive, and hate a teasing temper, and so 
I tell ber ladyship a bundred times a 
day.” 

Bo one could deliver eoch « dialogue as le found In “ale 
Peter Teale" with mach jodnt as T. King /ido-1eeo, MMe 
@icelle! in a quiet, @nieitlaw mayer of apewch, There 
Was 6n Gj igrasmmpdle este ineverrihing he pitvere!, Hie 
folce was muriral, hie in low, bie comin © bemig- 
@anl and yot ire —Walkins, Life of Seri (1517), 

Lady Teazle, w lively, innocent, coun- 
try maiden, who married sir Peter, old 
enough to be her grandfather. Planted 
in London in the whirl of the season, 


she formed a liaison with Joseph Surface, | 
but being sexved from disgrace, repented | 


and reformied.—R. LB. Sheridan, Schuol 
for Scandul (1777). 

On April 7, 179", Miss Farren, shout to marry the earl of 
Derby, beck her flow! leave? the Gage in the character 
ef Lady Teale.” Wer concheling words were apylirsisle 
tn a very reniirkable degree to benef: “" Let me reqoest, 
lady Boererwell, Ueal jus will ooke my respects to the 
ectnidalae college of welch pou are a member, aml inform 
Chem [hal lady Tenele, licentiafe, begs leave bo return the 
dijon they grate! her, ae ee Gow beares ul yractlon, 
anlktihbrimrion gpolenger” A pe kenals hort of ere 
here nevrslee the megelliity off the epeaker, whi 
Gunning lari of apylanme bdloee Fro the aol bee, 
areal the cortill) wes drawn lee way Lhe julay, dor Da 
gore Buu is louie ia — Ur C. Mathews, 

Teeth. Riyord, an historian of the 
thirlventh century, tells that when Chos- 
ros the Wersian carried away the true 
cross discovered by St. Ilel@na, the 
number of teeth in the human mice was 
reduced. Before that time Christians 
were furnished with thirty and in some 
cases with thirty-two teeth, but since then 
no human being has bad more than 
twenty-three teeth,—See /fistoriens de 
Fruncr, xviii. 

*.* The normal number of teeth is 
thirty-two still. This ‘historic fact” ie 
of a picce with that which ascribes to 
woman one rib more than to man (Gen, 
fiw! 4, 





TeetotalL The origin of this word 
is ascribed to Richard (Dicky) Turner, 


| who, in addressing a temperance meeting 


in September, 1843, reduplicated the wo 
fufal to give it emphasia: “ We not only 
want total abstinence, we want more, we 
want t-total abstinence.” The novelty 
and force of the expression took the 
meeting by storm. 

Jt is not correct to ascribe the word to 
Mr. Swindleharst of Preston, who is 
erroneously said to have stuttered. 


Te'ian Muse, Anacreon, born at 
Teivs, in lonia, and called by Ovid 
(drisha, ii. SOL) Tela Musa (p.c. 563- 
478). 

The Sclan and the Telan Muse. . . (Siewomidds aod 
_— Seamed "hs Sian ‘retaridvane Polite: 
Byron, Don Jean, 1, 6 (‘The leles of Groees,” 1800), 

*.* Probably Byron meant Simonidés 
of Ceos, Horace (Carmina, ii. 1, 84, 
speaks of *‘ Cem munera nepim," meaning 
Simonidés ; but Seios or Scio properly 
means Chios, one of the sevén placea 
which laid claim to Homer. oth Ceos 
and Chios are isles of Greece. 

Tai'lo (&t.), a Welsh saint, who took 
an active part against the Pelagian 
heresy. When he died, three cities con- 
tended for his body, but happily the 
strife was ended by the multiplication of 
the dead body into three St. Teilos, 
Capgrave insists that the ipsissune bod 
was possessed by Llandaff, — English 
Martyrvlogy. 


Teirtu’s Harp, which played of 
itself, merely by being asked to do so 
and when desired to cease playing did 
eo.— The Mal.nojion (**Rilbweh and 
Olwen,” twelfth century). 

St. Dunstan's harp discoursed most 
enchanting music without being struck 
by any player, 

The harp of the giant, in the tale of 
Jack and tie Bean-Stulk, played of itself. 
In one of the old Welsh tales, the dwarf 
named Dewryn Fychan stole from a 
giant a similar harp, 


Telemachos, the only son of 
Ulysses and Venelipt. When Ulysees 
had been absent from home nearly twenty 
rears, Telemachos went to Pyloa and 
Sparta to gain information about him. 
Nestor received him hospitably at Pylos, 
and sent him to Sparta, where Meneliios 
told him the prophecy of Proteus (2 sy/.) 
concerning Ulvsses, He then returned 
home, where he found his father, and 
assisted him in slaying the suitors, 







TELEMAQUE, 
Telemachos was accompanied in hia 
vyovage by the goddess of wisdom, under 
the form of Mentor, one of hie father's 
friends, (See Te.emagqun.) — Greet 
Fatle, 

Télémaque (Les Aventures de), o 
French prose epic, in twenty-four booka, 
by Fenelon (1699). The first six books 
contain the story of the hero's adventures 
told to Calypso, as Enfas told the stor 


of the burning of Troy and his travels | 


from Troy to Carthage to queen Dido. 


Telémaque says to the goddess that he | 


etarted with Mentor from Ithiica io 


search of his father, who had been absent |} 
from home for nearly twenty vears. He | 


first went to inquire of old Nestor if he 
conld give him any information on the 
subject, ond Nestor told him to go to 
Sparta, and have an intefview with 
Menelios. 


ut was kindly entreated by king 
Acestés, who furnished him with a ship 


to take him home (bk. i.). This ship | 


fell into the hands of some Egyptians; 
he was parted from Mentor, and 
sent to feed sheep im Egypt. 
Sesostris, conceiving a high opinion of 
the young man, would have sent him 
home, but died, nnd Télémaque was in- 


carcerited by his successor in a dungeon | ¢ 
——— © 4, 


e-——?, -t'- -4L- — == i fa. 


a oe 


gage 


q-oeo>—_ 2. §& 
4 =, E r 
Ags ae Ll 





e5aFi 


On leaving Lacedemonia, he | 
rot shipwrecked off the coast of Sicile, | | 


King | 


Fe 





F 














4. 
bs 


5 
iH 








TELL. 


981 


TEMORA. 





was placed on the head of Eindridi's son, 


and the king shooting at it grazed the | 


boy's head, but the father carried off the 
apple clean. Eindridi had concealed an 
arrow to aim at the king, if the boy had 
been injured. 

Another Norse tale is told of Hemingr 
and Harald son of Sizurd (1066). After 
varioustrialsof skill, Harald told Hemingr 
to shoot a nut from the head of Bjom, 
his young brother. In this he succeeded, 
not with an arrow, but with a spear. 

A similar tale is related of Geyti, son 
of Aslak, and the same Harald. The 
place of trial was the Faroe Isles. In 
this case also it was a nut placed on the 
head of Bjorn. 


Saxo Grammaticus tells nearly the | 


same story of Toki, the Danish hero, and 
Harald ; but in this trial of skill Toki 
killed Harald.—Danorwn Regum Heroum- 
que Histurw (1514). 

Reginald Scot says that Puncher shot 
a penny placed on his son's head, but 
made ready another arrow to slay the 
duke Remgrave who had set him the 
task (1584). 

*.” Itis said of Domitian, the Roman 
emperor, that if a boy held up his hands 
with the finyvers spread, he could shoot 
eight arrows in succession through the 
spaces without touching one of the 
fin;rers. 

William of Cloudesley, to show the king 
his skill in shooting, bound his eldest 
son to a stake, put an apple on his head, 
and, at the distance of 300 feet, cleft the 
apple in two without touching the boy. 

I have a son Is seven year old, 

He is tu me full dear, 
Twill hyn toe toa stake... 
And lay an apple upon his head, 

And go sit acore paces hyin fro, 
And I myse.fe with a bruul arrow 

Wl cleve the aye in two. 

Percy, Reliques. 

Similar feats of skill are told of Adam 
Bell and Clym of the Clough. 

In Altorf market-place, the spot is 
still pointed out where Tell shot the 
apple from his son's head, and a plaster 
statue stands where the patriot stood 
when he took his aim. 

See Roman fire in Hampden's bosom swell, 
And fate aid freedoin in the shaft of Tell. 
Campbell, Pleasures af Hope, L. (1798). 


°,* The legend of William Tell has 
furnished Florian with the subject of a 
novel in French (1784) ; A. M. Lemierre 
with hia trazedy of Guilloume Tell (1766); 
Schiller with a tragedy in German, Wil- 
helm Teli (1804) ; Knowles with at 


y 
im English, Wiliam Tell (1840); and | Scotland 


Rossini with the opera of Gugliehno 
Tell, in Italian (1829). 

Macrendy's performance in fefl [Kaovwles's drama) ts 
always first rate. No actor ever affected me more than 
pleco a in some scenes of that play (1748-1873), — 


Tellus’s Son, Antaos son of Posei’- 
don and Gé, a giant wrestler of Lib’ya, 
whose strength was irresistible so long as 
he touched his mother (earth). Herculé 
knowing this, lifted him into the air, and 
crushed him to death. Near the town of 
Tingis, in Mauritania, is a hillin the shape 
of a man called ‘‘ The Hill of Anteos,” and 
said to be his tomb. 


So some have feigned that Tellus’ giant soa 

Drew many new-born lives from bis deed mother 3 
Another rose ag soon as one was done, 

And twenty host, yet still remained another. 
For when he fell and kissed the barren heath, 
His parent straight luspired successive breath, 
And thy’ waa yet ransomed him from death. 

Phineas Fletcher, Tae Purple jeland, ix. (1683). 
_*e* Similarly, Bernardo del Carpiv 

lifted Orlando in his arms, and squeezed 
him to death, because his body was proof 
against any instrument of war. 


Te’mir, t.e. Tamerlane. The word 
occurs in Paradise Lust, xi. 389 (1665). 


Temliha, king of the serpents, in the 
island of serpents. King Temliha was 
“a small yellow serpent, of a glowing 
colour,” with the gift of human s ’ 
like the serpent which tempted Eve.— 
Comtede Caylus, Oriental Jules (‘‘ History 
of Aboutaleb,” 1743). 


Tem/ora, in Ulster, the palace of 
the Caledonian kinys in Ireland. The 
southern kingdom was that of the Fir- 
boly or Belae from South Britain, whose 
seat of government was at Atha, in 
Connaught. 


Tem'ora, the longest of the Ossianie 
rose-poems, in eight books. The sub 
ject is the dcethronement of the kings of 
Connaught, and consolidation of the two 
Irish kingdoms in that of Ulster. It 
must be borne in mind that there were 
two colonies in Ireland—one the Fir- 
bolg or British Belge, settled in the 
south, whose king was called the “ lord 
of Atha," from Atha, in Connaught, the 
seat of government; and the otlier the 
Cael, from Caledonia, in Scotland, whose 
seat of vernment was Temdra, in 
Ulster. When Crothar was ‘lord of 
Atha,” he wished to unite the two 
kingdoms, and with this view carried off 
Conlama, only child of the rival king, 
and married hee, The Caledonians of 
interfered, and Conar the 





TEMP 988 





TERENCE OF ENGLAND. 





he remained leaning on his staff till the 
Temple was finished, when the staff was 
awed throuyh by a worm, and the dead 
ody fell to the ground.—Charles White, 
The Cashmere Shawl. 


Temple (Launcelot), the nom de plume | 


of Jobn Armstrong, the poet (1709-1779). 


Temple Bar, called ‘‘ The City 
Gelgotha,” because the heads of traitors, 
etc., were at one time exposed there after 
decapitation. The Bar was removed in 

87 


Templeton (Laurence), the pseu- 
donym under which sir W. Scott pub- 
lished Jvanhoe. The preface is initialed 
L. T., and the dedicatiun ig to the Rev. 
Dr. Dryasdust (1820). 


Ten Animals in Paradise (The). 
poreriing: te Mohammedan belief, ten 
animals, besides man, are admitted into 
heaven: (1) Kratim, Ketmir, or Catnier, 
the dog of the seven sleepers; (2) Ba- 
laam's ass; (3) Solomon's ant; (4) 
Jonah's whale; (5) the calf [sic] offered 


to Jehovah by Abraham in lieu of age ) 


(6) the ox of Moses; (7) the camel o 
the prophet Salech or Saleh; (8) the 


cuckoo of Belkis; (9) Ismael’s ram; and | 


(10) Al Borak, the animal which con- 
veyed Mahomet to heaven. 

There is diversity in some lists of the 
ten animals. Some substitute for Ba- 
laam's ass the ass of Aazis, Balkis, or 
Manqueda, queen of Sheba, who went to 
visit Solomon. And some, but these 
can hardly be Mohammedans, think the 
ass on which Christ rode to Jerusalem 
should not be forgotten. But none seem 
inclined to increase the number. 


TenCommandmenta({A Woman's), 
the two hands with which she scratches 
the faces of those who offend her. 

Could I come near )vur beauty with my nafla, 
Id eet my ten commandments in your face. 
Shakespeare, 2 Henry V/. oct 1. ac. 3 (1588), 

Tenantius, the father of Cvmbeline 
and nephew of Cassibelan. He was the 
younger son of Lud king of the southern 

rt of Britain. On the death of Lud, 

is younzer brother Cassibelan succeeded, 
and on the death of Cassibelan the crown 
came to ‘Tenantius, who refused to 
the tribute to Rume exacted from Cassie 
belan on his defeat by Julius Cesar, 


Tendo Achillis, a strong sinew 
runniny along the heel to the calf of the 
leg. So called because it was the onl 
walnerable part of Achillés. The tale 





that Thetis held him by the heel when 
she dipped him in the Styx, in conse- 
qeence of which the water did not wet 

e child's heel. The story is puvst- 
Homeric. 


Tenglio; a river of Lapland, on the 
banks of which roses grow. 

I was surprised to see upon the banks of this river [the 
i age la ph oben tend gle ‘n o=r own 
Polatre (1738) we 

Teniers (Zhe English), George Mcr 
land (1763-1804). coe 


Teniers (The Scottish), siz David 
Wilkie (1785-1841). 


Teniers of Comedy (The), Florent 
Carton Dancourt (1661-1726). 


Tennis-Ball of Fortune (The), 
Pertinax, the Roman emperor. He was 
first a charcoal-seller, then a school- 
master, then a soldier, then an emperor ; 
but within three months he was dethron 
and murdered (126-198; reigned from 
January 1 to March 28, a.p. 193). 


Tent (Prince Ahmed’s), a tent given 
to him by the fairy Pari-Banou. It 
would cover a whole army, yet would 
fold up into so small a compass that it 
might be carried in one’s pocket.—Ara- 
bian Nuhts. 

Solomon's carpet of green silk was 
large enough to afford standing room for 
a whole army, but might be carried about 
like a pocket-handkerchief. 

The ship Sk.dbladmur would hold all the 
deities of Valhalla, but might be folded 
up like a roll of parchment. 

Bayard, the horse of the four sons of 
Aymon, grew laryer or smaller, as one or 
more of the four sons mounted on its 
back.— Villeneuve, Les Quatre Filz Ay- 


| Mon, 


Tents (The futher of such as dwell in), 


| Jabal.—Gen. iv. 20. 


Terebin’thus, Ephes-dammim os 
Pas-dammim.—1 Sam. xvii. 1. 


O thou that ‘gainet Goliath's impious head 
The youthful arma In Terebinthus epedi, 
When the proud foe, who scoffed at lerac!’s band, 


Pell by the waapon of a stripling hand. 
Taso, Jerusalem Dolleerod. vil. (1573) 


Terence of England (The), 
Richard Cumberland (1732-1811). 


Here Cumberland lies, having acted his parts ; 

The Terence of England, tue mender of hearts 5 

A flattering painter, who made it his care 

Tu draw men as they ought to be, not as they are... 

fay. . . wherefore bis characters, thus without fall, .. 
ite aick of parsuing each troubiesome elf, 
grew lazy at lest, and drew men from bimeelf. 

Goldamith, Zetaliation (177@, 








TERROR OF THE WORLD. 


= Ie this the Talbot, so moch feared abruad. 
That with his name the mothers stil! (lelr babes? 
Shakespeare, 1 Benry V/. act il. a. 35 (1580). 
Terror of the World ( Te), Attila 
king of the Huns (*-153). 


Terry Alts,a lawless boily of rebels, 
who sprang up in Clare (Ireland) after 
the union, and committed great outrages. 

The “Thrashers” of Connaught, the 
**Carders,” the followers of ‘captain 
Right” in the eighteenth century, those 
ef ‘“‘captain Rock” who appeared in 
1822, and the ‘‘ Fenians” in | 865, were 
Similar disturbers of the peace. The 


watchword of the turbulent Irish, some | 


ten ycars later, was ‘‘ Home [tule." 


Tesoretto, an Italian poem by Bra- 
netto preceptor of Danté (1285). 


embassy to the king of Spain, and met 
a scholar on a bay mule, whic told him 
of the overthrow of the Guelli, Struck 


with grief, he lost his road, and wandered | 
into a wood, where Dame Nature accosted | 


him, and disclosed to him the secreta of 
her works. On he wandered til! lie came 
to a vast plain, inhabited by Virtue and 
her four dauyhters, together with 
Courtesy, Bounty, Loyalty, and lrowess. 
Leaving this, he came to a fertile valley, 
which was for ever shifting its appear- 
ance, from round to square, from light 
todarkness. This was the valley of queen 
Pleasure, who was attended by Love, 
Hope, Fear, and Desire. 


effect his escape. 


Tes'sira, one of the leaders of the 
Moorish host.—Ariosto, Orlundu /uriose 
(1516). 


Tests of Chastity.  Alasnam's 
mirror (p. 15) ; the brawn or boars head 
p. 130) ; drinking-horns (see AiTHUR’S 
JBINKING-Honn, p. 503 Siu Crabock 
AND THE Darinking-Hors, p. Lid); 


‘lorimel's girdle (p. ; grotto of | neg 
Fionmels gitd’s (p. S41) | eee) ae | organized by Frederick duke of Suabia, 


Ephesus (p. 409); the test mantle (p. 
606); oath on St. Antony's arm was 
held in supreme reverence because it waa 
believed that whoever took the onth 
falsely would be consumed by “ St. 


Antony's fire” within the current year; | 


the trial of the sieve (p. 910). 


Tests of Fidelity. Canaci’s mir- 
ror (p. 156) 3; Gondibert’s emerald ring 
(p. 394). ‘The corsned or “cursed mouth- 
ful,” a piece of bread consecrated by 
exorcism, and given to the “‘ suspect 
to awallow as a test. ‘‘ May this morsel 

4? 


| choke me if I am guilty,” said the de- 
: fendant, ‘* bat turn to wholesome nourisli- 


| turn, aod rendered you the ame offlog . . 


The | 
poet says he was returning from an 


| Yorce, 


Ovid comes to | 
Tesoretto at length, and tells him how to 





TEZOZOMOC. 





ment if I am innocent." Ordeals ():. 
707), combats between plaintiff and dv- 
fendant, or their representatives, 


Téte Bottee, Philippe de Commine- 
[Curn.min], litician and historini 
(1445-1509). 

You, dr Philippe dew Combines (ric) were at «© hunfing- 
match with the dule, your master; ond when be 
glightel, after the chasm, he required poor sevics in 
driwing of hile boot. Rewling la Four looks comer 
fatornl fontiment,. .. he ordered you to dt down in 

. bol, .. ba 
boomer had he plucke one of pour boots off than he 
brutally beat it ateot pour head... aml hie privileged 
fool Le Gloria, ... give poo the name of Tae Bogs. 
Tee eee Goente Serena, rz, (time, Edward 

To'thys, daughter of Heaven and 
Earth, the wife of Ocean and motber of 
the river-gods. In poetry it means the 
eea generally, 

The golden am above the watery bed 
Of boory Tikthys raid fis bearny bern. 
Howe's dA rionte, will, 


iy the carth-shaking Nepiane's mace [trident 
Anal Tiss grave majestic pace. 
Aion, Commas, BO ()24) 
Tetrachor’don, the title of one of 
Milton's books about marriage and di- 
The word means “the four 
strings ;" by which he means the four 
chief places in Scripture which bear on 
the subject of marriage. 
A book wae writ of late called Petrackerden. 
Mulion, Zovuel, 
Teucer, son of Telimon of Saliimis, 
and brother of Telamon Ajax. He was 
the best archer of all the Greeks at the 
siege of Troy. 


Tt may, he a seco , dkcharge roy ahaa fires 


Teucer 
| bellied the shield of my ally.—Sir W, Beotth 


Teufeledroeckh (//err), pronounce 
Tui. felz.drurk ; an eccentric German pro- 
fessur and philosopher. The object of 
this satire is to expose all sorta of shams, 
social as well as intellectual,—Carlyle, 
Sartor Resartus (1849). 


Teutonic Knights (The), an order 


in Palestine (1190). St. Louis gave them 
permission to quarter on their arms the 
fleur de is (1250). The order was 
abolished, in 1809, by Napoleon I, 
Texartis, a Scythian soldier, killed 
by the conntess Rrenhilda.—Sir W. Scott, 
Count Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 
Tezoz'omoc, chief of the priests of 
the Az'tecas. He fasted ten months to 
know how to appease the national goda, 
and then declared that the only way was 
to offer “the White strangers” on their 


-n818 (Z syé.), an Athenian courtezan, 
who induced Alexander, in his cups, to 
set fire to the palace of the Persian kings 
at Persepilis. 

The king scised a flambern with zeal to destroy; 
Thais led the way to Hyht him to hb prey, 
And, like another Helen, fired another Troy. 
Dryden, 4lexander's Feast (1697). 
Thafs’a, daughter of Simon’idés king 
of Pentap’olis. She married Per'iclés 

rince of Tyre. In her voyage to Tyre, 

hatsa gave birth to a daughter, and 
dying, as it was supposed, in childbirth, 
was cast into the sca. The chest in 
which she was placed drifted to Ephesus, 
and fell into the hands of Cer’imon, a 
physician, who soon discovered that she 
was not dead. Under prvper care, she 
entirely recovered, and became a priestess 
in the temple of Diana. Periclés, with 
his daughter and her betrothed husband, 
visiting the shrine of Diana, became 
known to each other, and the whole 
mystery was cleared up.—Shakespeare, 
Pericles Prince of Tyre (1608). 


Thal’aba ebn Hateb, a poor man, 
who came to Mahomet, requesting him 
to beg God to bestow on him wealth, 
and promising to employ it in works of 
godliness. The ‘‘ prophet” made the 
petition, and Thalaba rapidly grew rich. 
One day, Mahomet sent to the rich man 
for alma, but Thalaba told the messen- 
gers their demand savoured more of 
tribute than of charity, and refused to 

iveanything; but afterwards repenting, 

e took to the “prophet” a good round 








THALESTRIS, 


987 


Ee 


THANKFULNESS. 





ward with intent to kill him, but Laila 
interposed, and fell dead by the hand of 
her own father (bk. x.). Her spirit, in 
the form of a green bird, now became 
the guardian anyel of ‘‘ The Destroyer,” 
and conducted him to the simorg, who 
directed him the road to Dom-Daniel 
(bk. xi.), which he reached in time, slew 
the surviving sorcerers, and was received 
into heaven (bk. xii.).—Southey, Zhalaba 
the Destroyer (1797). 

Thales’tris, queen of the Amazons, 
Any bold, heroic woman. 


As stout Armi‘da [¢.0.} bold Thalestria, 
And she | Xedalind, g.v.) that would have been the 
mist rees 


8. Butler, Hudidras, & & (1663), 


Thali'a, the Muse of pastoral song. 
She is often represented with a crook in 
her hand. 


Turn to the gentler melodies which zig 
Thalla’s harp, or Pan's Arcadian lute. 
Cunpbell, Pleasures af Hope, il. (1789). 


Thaliard, a lord of Antioch.— 
Shakespeare, Pericles Prince of Tyre 
(1608). 

Thames. “ He will never set the 
Thamea on fire.” A “temse” or sieve 
mnight be act on fire if worked very swiftly 
over the wooden recciver, but not by an 
idlevrincompetent workman. Hencethe 
proverb, which has, through similarity 
of sound, been taken to apply to the river. 


Tham’mus, God of the Syrians, 
and fifth in order of the hierarchy of 
hell: (1) Satan, (2) Betlzebub, (8) 
Moloch, (4) Chemos, (5) Thammugz (the 
saine as Ado’nis). Thammuz was slain 


by a wild boar in mount Leb’anon, from | 
whence the river Adonis descends, the | 


water of which, at a certain season of the 
year, becomes reddened. Addison saw 
it, and a-cribes the redness to a minium 
washed into the river by the violence of 
the rain. 
Thammusz came next behind, 

Whose anni woud in Lebanon allare® 

The dy rean daiw-e.. to lament his fate 

In amerous aithes all a summer's lay 3 

Wile snouth Adouis from tie native rock 

Rau purple to the -en, su;-poned with blood 

OF Tuaniuz yearly wounded, 

Miton, /aradies Lost, L 446, ete. (1688). 
Thamu‘dites (3 syl.), people of the 
tribe of Thamdd. ‘They refused to 
believe in Mahomet without seeing a 
miracle. (n a grand festival, Jonda, 
prince of the Thamadites, told Saleh, 
the prophet, that the god which answered 
by miracle should be acknowledged God 
vy beth. Junda and the Thamédites 
Grst called upon their idols, but received 





no answer. ‘‘ Now,” said the prince to 
Saleh, ‘‘if your God will bring a camel 
big with young from that rock, we will 
believe.” Scarcely had he spoken, when 
the rock groaned and shook and opened ; 
and forthwith there came out a camel, 
which there and then cast its young one. 
Jonda became at once a convert, but the 
Thamidites held back. To add to the 
miracle, the camel went up and dewn 


| among the people crying, ‘‘ Hol ev 


one that thirsteth, let him come, and I wi 
give him milk!” (Compare Isaiah lv. 1.) 
Unto the tribe of Thaméd we sent their brother Silsh. 
He sald, “O people, worship God; 
besides him. ow bath a manifest 
frou the Lord. Thie she-camel of God 
therefore dismiss ber freely .. . 
@ painful t ecise upon you."—4i Kerdéa, vil. 
*,* Without doubt, the reader will at 
once call to mind the contest between 
Elijah and the priests of Baal, so gra- 
phically described in 1 Atngs xviii. 


Tham’yris (Blind), a Thracian poet, 
who eee the Muses to a contest of 
song, and was deprived of sight, voice, 
and musical skill for his presumption 
(Pliny, Natural Jflistory, iii. 338, and vii. 
67). Plutarch says he had the finest voice 
of any one, and that he wrote a poem on 
the War of the Tituns with the Gods. 
Suidas tells us that he composed a poem 
on creation. And Plato, in his Republic 
(last book), feigns an the spirit of the 
blind old bard passed into a nightingale 
at death. Milton speaks of: id 

Bilnd Thamyrie and blind Maon‘idés jwemer 
Paradise Lost, lil, 35 ( 


Thancmar, chatelain of Bourbourg, 
the great enemy of Kertulphe the provost 
of Bruges. Charles ‘‘the Good," earl of 
Flanders, made a law in 1127 that a serf 
was always a serf till manumitted, and 
whoever married a serf became a serf. 
ly these absurd laws, the provost of 
Bruges becauie a serf, because his father 


| was Thancmar's serf. By the same laws, 


Bouchard, though a knight of long 
because 


} descent, becaine ‘Thancmar's serf, 


he married Constance the provost's 
daughter. The result of these laws was 
that Bertulphe slew the earl and then him- 
self, Constance went mad and died, Bou- 
chard and Thancmar slew each other in 
fight, and all Bruges was thrown into 
confusion.—S. Knowles, Zhe Provost of 
Brwjes (1836). 


Thankfulness. ‘To be over-thank- 
ful for one favour is, in effect, to lay 
out for another.”—Cumber West 
Indian, iv. 1 (1771). 


oer 


wr 


he @e rede 
. —_ . = 
a 


19, 20 (1533). 


Thaumaturga. Filuména is called 
La Thaumaturge du Dirneuviéme Siecle. 
In 1802 a grave was discovered with this 
inscription: Lumzna Paxtse Cv MFt, which 
has no meaning, but being re-arranged 
makes Pax Tx-cum, Fi-LumENA. So 
Filumena was at once accepted as a 

roper name and canonized. And 
fecause as many miracles were performed 
at her tomb as at that of the famous abbd 
de Paris mentioned in Paley’s Eridences, 
she was called ‘‘ The Nineteenth-Century 
Miracle-Worker.” But who Filumena 
was, or if indeed she ever existed, is one 
those impenetrable secrets which no 
one will ever know. (See St. FILUMENA, 


p- 859.) 


Thaumatur’gus. Gregory bisho 
of Neo-Cesarta, in Cappadocia, was a 
called on account his numerous 
miracles (212-270). 

ALEXANDER OF HOHENLOHE was & 
worker of miracles. 

ApoLionius oF Tyra'na ‘raised the 

healed the sick, cast out devils, 
@® young man from a lamia or 
vampire of which he was enamoured, 
uttered prophecies, saw at Ephesus the 
assassination of Domitian at Rome, and 
filled the world with the fame of his 
sanctity” (a.p. 8-98). — Philostritos, 
fase of Apollonius of Tyana, in eight 
8. 


Tw . eee = 8 A ~~ - ofte s a e =e 


KBUCIRIB, LGRIAYTUC, 1, 








THEANA. 





THELEME, 





Thea'na (3 syl.) is Anne countess 
of Warwick. 
Ke jew prulaeworthy | Theana read, 
Phe ie the well of lente eo brave milled, 
Face (erg vent tie ghia red oral Lig, 
Wie opty ceeeraak be he af ween bk iged, 


Ando url= chil girtooal ith all virtues Aight 
Bpcnser, Colin Clats Crme Some dgoin (15), 


Thebaid (Zhe), a Latin cpic poem 
in twelve books, by Statius (about a 
ventury after Virvil). Laios, king of 
Thebes, waa told by an oracle that he 
would have a son, hat that his eon would 
be lia murderer, To prevent this, when 


the wn was born he was hung on @ tree 
by his feet, to be devou by wild 
lensts, The child, however, Was fres- 


cucd by sume of the royal scrvants, who 
brought him op, and called his name 
(Kdipes or Club-foot, because his feet 
and ankles were swollen by the thongs. 
One day, geing to Thebes, the chariot 
of Laivs nearly drove over the young 
(Eilipos: a quarrel ensued, and Laios was 
killed. CEdipos, not knowing whom he 
hud slain, weot on to Thelws, and ere 
long married the wilowed queen Jocasta, 
nit knowing that she was hia muther, 
and by her he hal two sens and two 
daughters, The tan es of the sons were 
Kteowles and ulvnices, These sons, in 
time, dethroned their father, and agreed 
ta rcien aliernate vears. Et@dclés reyned 
first, lit at the ¢ 
to resipen the crown to his brother, and 
Polvniecs made war upon him. This 
wir, Which occurred some forty-two 
rears lefore the siege of Troy, and 
albwut the time that Deliral was fichting 
with Sistra (Judjes iv.), is the subject 
ofthe Pend. 

The tiret book recapitulates the history 
given alwve, and then goes on to say 
that olvniecs went etravcht to Arosa, 
and Inid his grievance be fore king Adras- 
tos (Ik. i). W lulvat Argos, he marred one 
of the king's danchters, and Tvdeus the 
other. ‘Lhe festivities lwing ower, Tydeus 
was wit te Theles to claim the throne 
fer his brother-in-law, and being in- 
ecicutly dismissed, denounced war ayainst 
Kteoclea, The villainous osurper sent 
lifty ruflians te fall on the ambassador on 
his way to Arcos, but they were all siain, 
except one, arg was left to carry back 
the news (bk, ii). When Tydeus reached 
Arges, he seatied his father-in-law to 
iirch at once neninst Thebes, but 
Aidristos, legs impetuous, made answer 
that a reat war required time for tts 
organization. Howev er, Kapineus (3 sy/,), 


mdiuig wilh Tydeus [ 2\'.duce), roused the 


slose of the year refused | 


mob (bk. jii.), and Adrastos at once set 
about preparations for war. He placed 
his army under six chieftains, viz., Poly- 
nicés, Tydeus, Amphiarios, Kapaneus, 
Parthenopmos, and Hippom@don, he 
himself acting os commander-in-chief 
(bk. iv.). Hks. ¥., vi. deacnbe* the 
march from Arcos to Thebes. On the 
arrival wf the allied army before Thebes, 
Jucasta tried to reconcile her two sons, 
but not succeeding in this, hostilities 
commenced, and one of the chiefs, named 
Amphiaraos, was swallowed up by an 
earthyuake (bk. vii.). Next day, Tydeua 
greatly distinguished himself, but fell 
(lok. witt.). Uda ee and Partheno- 
weos were both slain the day follow- 
ing (bk. ix.). Then came the turn of 
hapaneus, bold as a tiger, strong as a 
riant, and a regular dare-devil in war, 
le actually sealed the wall, he thought 
himself sure of victory, he defied even 
Jove to stop him, and was instantly 
killed by a flash of lightning (bk. x.). 

Tolvniccs was now the only one of the 
six remaining, and he sent to Eteoel(s to 
mect bim in single combat. The two 
brothers met, they fought like lions, 
they gave no quarter, they took no rest, 
At length, Eteocl(s fell, and Polynicés, 
running wp to strip him of his arms, Was 
thrust through the bowels, and fell dead 
on the dead body of his brother, Adras- 
toa now decamped, and returned to Argos 
(bk. x1.). Creon, having usurped the 
Theban crown, forlade any one on pain 
of death to bury the dead; but when 
Theseus king of Athens heard of this 
profanity, he marched at once to Thebes, 
('reon died, and the crown was given to 
Theseus (lik, xil.). 


Theban Bard (Tie), Turan 
Eacix, or Tuknax Lyne, Pindar, bora 
at Thebes (n.c. 622-442). 

Veo that in fanried thin on mimlire 
Tha sean! of Hrijas sol the Thelen bre, 
Canmphell, Piearmres af Mops, L (174. 

Thecla (*¢.), said to be of noble 
family, in Ico’nium, and to have been 
converted by the apostle Paul. She is 
styled in Greek martyrologies the proto- 


| martyress, but the book called The Acta 


of J’aul and Thecla is considered to be 
apocryphal, 
On the relfzame shelf 
With u« “pte roc of SL Theels herself 
Lougfe.iow, Tae Geldew Leywod (1SR1), 
Thekla, daughter of Wallenstein,— 
Schiller, Wallenstein (1799), 


Theléeme (A of § the abbey given 
hy Grangousier to friar John for the aid 








THEODORICK. 


thonght him dead, renounced the world, 
and became a monk of St. Nicholas, as- 
suming the name of Austin. By chance, 
Theodore was sent home in a Spanish 
bark, and found his way into some secret 
passage of the count’s castle, where he 
was scized and taken before the count. 
Ilere he met the monk Austin, and was 
made known to him. He informed his 
father of his love for Adelaide, the count’s 
daughter, and was then told that if he 
married her he must renounce his estates 
and title. The case stood thus: If he 
claimed his estates, he must challenge 
the count to mortal combat, and renounce 
the daughter; but if be married Ade- 
laide, he must forego his rights, for he 
could not marry the daughter and slay 
his father-in-law. The perplexity 1s 
solved by the death of Adelaide, killed 
by her father by mistake, and the death 
of the connt by his own hand.—Robert 
Jephson, Cuunt of Narbonne (1782). 


Theod’orick, king of the Goths, 
ealled by the German minnesingers Dide- 
rick of [ern (Verona). 


Theodvrick or “ Alberick of Mortemar,” 
an exiled nobleman, hermit of Engaddi, 
and an enthusiast.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe 
Talisman (time, Richard I.). 


Theodo’rus (faster), a learned phy- 
sician emploved by Ponocratés to cure 
Garyantua of his vicious habits, The 
doctor accordingly ‘‘ purged him canonic- 
ally with Anticyrian hellebore, cleansed 
from his brain all perverse habits, and 
made him for;et everything he had 
learned of his other preceptors."—Rabe- 
lais, Guryantua, i, 23. 

Hel:cbure was made use of to purge the brain, In order 
to fit ie the betrer fur serluus stuty.—Pliny, Neturad 
History, 11. 35; Aulus Gellius, 4ttlo Nights, xvii. 14. 

Theodo’sius, the hermit of Cappa- 
docia, He wrote the four gospels in 
letters of gold (423-529). 

Theodosius, wh > of old, 
Wrote the cnpels in letters of gold. 
Longfcliuw, The Golden Legend (19854). 

Theophilus (St.), of Adana, in 
Cilicia (sixth century). He was driven 
by slunder to sell his soul to the devil on 
condition that his character was cleared. 
The slander was removed, and no tongue 
wagyed ayeinst the thin-skinned saint. 
Theophilus pow repented of his bargain, 
and, after a fast of forty davs and forty 
nizhta, was visited by the Virgin, who 
bade him coafeas to the bishop. This he 
did, received absolution, and died within 
three days of brain fever.—Jacques de 


901 THERON. 


Voragine, The Golden Legends (thirteenth 
century). 

This is a very stale trick, told of many 
a saint. Southey has poetized one of 
them in his ballad of St. Basi or The 
Sinner Saved (1829). El®&mon sold his 
soul to the devil on condition of his pro- 
curing him Cyra for wife. The devil 
performed his part of the bargain, but 

leemon called off, and St. Basil gave 
him absolution. (See Sinner Savep.) 


Theophras’tus of France (The), 
Jean de la Bruyere, author of Caractéres 


(1646-1696). 
Theresa, the millers wife, who 
adopted and brought up Amina, the 


orphan, called ‘‘the somnambulist.”—Bel- 
lini, Za Sunnamnbula (libretto by Scribe, 
1831). 


Therésa, daughter of the count pala- 
tine of Padodlia, beloved by Mazeppa. 
Her father, indignant that a mere 
should presume to his daughter's hand, 
had Mazeppa bound to a wild horse, and 
set adrift. But the future history of 
Theresa is not related.— Byron, IMazeppe 
(1819). 

Medora (wife of the Corsair), Neuha [in Fhe /eland}, 
Leila [in The Giaour], Francesca {in The siege of 
Corinth}. Theresa, i¢ has been are but 
children of one family, with differences resulting only 
from climate and circuinstance —F inden, Byron Beauties. 

Theresa (Sister), with Flora M'‘Ivor 
at Carlisle.—Sir W. Scott, Waverley 
(time, George II.). 

Theringe (Afde. de), the mother of 
Louise de Lascours, and ndmother of 
Diana de Lascours and Martha alias 
Orgari’ta ‘‘the orphan of the Frozen 
Sea."—E. Stirling, Zhe Orphan of the 
Frozen Sea (1856). 


Thermopyle. When Xerxes in- 
vaded Greece, Leonidas was sent with 
800 Spartans, as a forlorn hope, to defend 
the pass leading from Thessaly into 
Locris, by which it was thought the 
Persian host would penetrate into south- 
ern Greece. The Persians, however, 
having discovered a path over the monun- 
tains, fell on Leonidas in the rear, and 
the ‘‘ brave defenders of the hot-gates" 
were cut to pieces. 


Theron, the favourite dog of Rode- 
rick the last Gothic king of Spain. 
When the discrowned king, dressed as 4 
monk, assumed the name of “father 
Maccabee,” although his tutor, mother, 
and even Florinda failed to recognize 
him, Theron knew him at once, fawned 








THIEVES OF HISTORIC NOTE. 998 THIEVES OF HISTORIC NOTE. 


seeing the king's casket, helped himself 


freely fromit. Heretumed a second time, 
and on his third entrance, Edward said, 
‘* Be quick, or Hugoline (the chamber- 
lain) will see you.” The courtier was 
scarcely gone, when the chamberlain 
entered and instantly detected the theft. 
The king said, ‘‘ Never mind, Hugoline ; 
the fellow who has taken it no doubt has 
greater need of it than either you or I.” 
(Reigned 1042-1066.) 

Several similar anecdotes are told of 
Robert the Pious, of France. At one 
time he saw a man steal a silver candle- 
stick off the altar, and said, ‘‘ Fricnd 
Ogger, run for your life, or you will be 
found out.” At another time, one of 
the twelve poor men in his train cut off a 
rich gold pendant from the royal robe, 
and Robert, turning to the man, said to 
him, ** Hide it quickly, friend, before any 
one sces it.” (Reigned 996-1031.) 

The following is told of two or three 
kings, amongst others of Ludwig the 
Pious, who had a very overbearing wife. 
A begyar under the table, picking up the 
crumbs which the king let down, cut off 
she gold fringe of the royal robe, and the 
king whispered to him, ‘‘ Take care the 
queen doesn't see you.” 


Thieves of Historic Note. 

AUTOL’ycoa, son of Hermés; a very 
prince of thieves. He had the power of 
changing the colour and shape of stolen 
goods, so as to prevent their being recog- 
nized.—Greek Fable. 

Bartow (Jimmy), immortalized bv 
the ballad-song : 


My name it ts Jimmy Barlow ; 

1 was bera in the town of Carlow 3 
And here I Hie in Mary boro’ jail, 

All for the rubbing of the Dublin mail. 


Canrtroucne, the Dick Turpin of 
France (eighteenth century). 

CotTtTInctTon (Juin), in the time of the 
Commonwealth, who emptied the pockets 
of Oliver Cromwell when lord protector, 
stripped Charles 11. of £1500, and stole 
& watch ar.d chain from lady Fairfax. 

Duvat (Claude), a French highway- 
man, noted for his gallantry and daring 
(7-1670). (See below, ‘James Whit- 
uev,” who was a very similar character.) 

*.* Alexander Dumas bas a_ novel 
entitled (fawle Dural, and Miss Robin- 
gon has introduced him in Wate Friars. 

Frirn (Mar), usually called ‘ Moll 
Cutpurse.”” She had the honour of rob- 
bing eneral Fairfax on Hounslow Heath. 
Mary Frith lived in the reign of Charles 
{., and died at the aye of 75 years. 


*,* Nathaniel Field has introduced 
Mary Frith, and made merry with some 
of her pranks, in his comedy Amends for 
Ladws (1618). 

GaLLopina Dick, executed in Ayles- 
bury in 1800. 

GRANT ( Captain), the Irish highway- 
man, executed at Maryborough in 1816. 

GREENWOOD (Sumuel), executed ef 
Old Bailey in 1822. 

Hassay, the ‘‘Old Man of the Moun. 
tain,” once the terror of Europe. He 
was chicf of the Assassins (1056-1124). 

Hoop (Robin) and his “merry men 
all,” of Sherwood Forest. Famed in 
song, drama, and romance. Probably 
he lived in the reign of Richard Coeur de 

on. 

*,* Sir W. Scott has introduced him 
both in Zhe Talisman and in Jeanhoe. 
Stow has recorded the chief incidents of 
his life (see under the year 1218). Ritson 
has compiled a volume of ballads re- 
specting him. Drayton has given «a 
sketch of him in the Polyolbion, xxvi. 
The followiny are dramas on the same out- 
law, viz.:— The Playe of Robyn Hode, very 
proper to be played in Maye games (fif- 
teenth century); Skelton, at the com- 
mand of Henry VIII., wrote a drama 
called The Luwnfall of Robert Earl o 
Huntinjton (about 1520); Zhe Downf 
of Robert Earl of Huntington, by Munday 
(1897) § The Death of Robert Earle of 

Yuntinjton, otherwise called Robin Hood 
of Merrie Sherwodde, by H. Chettle 
(1598). Chettle’s drama is in reality a 
continuation of Munday's, like the two 
parts of Shakespeare's plays, Henry [V. 
and Henry V. Rubin Hood's Peanorths, 
aplay by Wm. Haughton (1600) ; Robin 
Hood and His Pastoral May Games (1624), 
Robin Hood and His Crew of Soldiers (1627), 
both anonymous; The Sud SA or a 
Tale of Kubin Hood (unfinished), B. Jonson 

1637); Kubin Houd, an opera (1780) ; 

vin Hood, an opera by Dr. Ame 
Burney (1741); Rubin Houd, a musical 
farce (1751); Robin Hood, a comic opera 
(1784) ; Robin Hood, an opera by O'Keefe, 
music by Shield (1787) ; Rubin Hood, by 
Macnally (before 1820). Sheridan began 
a drama on the same subject, which he 
called Zhe Furesters. 

Penipeut’'tes (4 syl.) of Argodlis, sur- 
named ‘‘ The Club-Bearer,” because he 
used to kill bis victims with an iron 
club.—(rreciun Story. 

Procrcstes (3 sy/.), a famous robber 
of Attica. His real name was Polypé 
mon or Damastés, but he received tha se. 

3e 





-_— 


THIRTEEN UNLUCKY. 





THOMAS A KEMPIS. 








certain death; but if of a coward, the 
cut was harwwless. 

10. Tux Rope or Papary Beisrupp, 
which fitted every one of gentle birth, 
but no churl could wear it. 

Il, Taw MantLe oe Traau_ Evr- 
VRON, which only fitted ladies whose 
conduct waa irreproachable. 

12. THe MANTLE OF KING ARTHUR, 
which could be worn or used as a carpet, 
and whoever wore it or stood on it was 
invisible. This mantle or carpet was 
called G:wenn. 

*,* The ring of Luned rendered the 
wearer invisible so long as the stone of it 
was concealed. 

13. Tuk CHESSBOARD OF GWEND- 
DOLEN. When the men were placed 
upon it they played of themselves. The 
board was of gold, and the men silver. 
— Welsh Momance. 


Thirteen Unlucky. It is said 
that it is unlucky for thirteen persons to 
sit down to dinner at the same table, 
because one of the number will die before 
the yearis out. This silly superstition is 
based on the ‘‘ Last Supper,” when Christ 
and Ilias twelve disciples sat at meat 
topether. Jesus, of course, was crucified ; 
and Judas Iscariot hanged himself. 


Thirty (7h’-). So the Spartan senate 
established by Lycurgos was called. 

Similarly, the Venetian senate 
called ** The Forty.” 


Thirty Tyrants (Zhe). So the 
zevernors appointed by Lysander the 
Spartan over Athens were called (B.c. 
404). They continued in power only 
eight months, when Thrasybdlos deposed 
them and restored the republic. 

** The Thirty” put more people to death tn eight 
months of peace than the enemy had done in a war of 
thirty years. —Aenuphun. 

Thirty Tyrants of Rome (Tic), 
a fanciful name, applied by Trebellius 
Pollio to a set of adventurers who tried 
to mak: themselves masters of Rome at 
sundry tines between a.p. 260 and 267. 

The number was not thirty, and the 
analogy between them and ‘'The Thirty 
Tyrants of Athens” is scarcely percep- 
tible. 


Thirty Years’ War (The), a 
series of wars between the protestants 
and catholics of Germany, terminated by 
the ** Pence of Westphalia.” The war 
arose thus: The emperor of Austria 
interfered in the struggle between the 
protestants and catholics, by depriving 


was 


a a 


the protestants of Bohemia of their 
religious privileges; in consequence of 
which the protestants flew to arms. 
After the contest had been going on for 
some years, Richelieu joined the protest~ 
ants (1635), not from any love to their 
cause, but solely to humiliate Austria and 
Spain (1618-1648), 

The Peloponnesian war between Athens 
and Sparta is called ‘‘ The Thirty Years’ 
War” (u.c. 404-431). 


Thisbe (2 sy/.), a beautiful Baby- 
lonian maid, beloved b ramus, her 
next-door neighbour. As eir parents 
forbade their marriage, they contrived to 
hold intercourse with each other through 
a chink in the garden wall. Once they 
agreed to meet at the tomb of Ninus. 
Thisbé was first at the trysting-place, 
but, being scared by a lion, took to flight, 
and accidentally dropped her robe, which 
the lion tore and stained with blood. 
Pyramus, seeing the blood-stained robe, 
thought that the lion had eaten Thisbé, 
and so kilied himself. When Thisbé re- 
turned and saw her lover dead, she killed 
herself also. Shakespeare has burlesqued 
this pretty tale in his Midsummer Night's 
Dream (1592). 


Thom’alin, a shepherd who laughed 
to scorn the notion of love, but was 
ultimately entangled in its wiles. He 
tells Willy that one day, hearing a 
rustling in a bush, he discharged an 
arrow, when up flew Cupid into a tree. 
A battle ensued between them, and when 
the shepherd, having spent all his arrows, 
ran away, Cupid shot him in the heel. 
Thomalin did not much heed the wound 
at first, but soon it festered inwardly and 
rankled daily more and more.—Spenser, 
Shepheardes Calendar, iii. (1579). 

Thomalin is again introduced in ecl. 
vii., when he inveiyhs ainat the 
catholic priests in general, and the shep- 
herd Palinode (3 sy/.) in particular. 
This eclogue could not have been written 
before 1578, as it refers to the seques- 
tration of Grindal archbishop of Can- 
terbury in that year. 

Thomas (Afunsicur), the feliow- 
traveller of Val’entine. Valentine's niece 
Mary is in love with him.—Beaumont 
and Fletcher, Mons. Thomas (1619). 

Thomas (Sir), a dogmatical, ing, 
self-sufficient squire, whose j enta 
are but ‘‘ justices’ justice.” — 
Borowgh, x. (1810). 


Thomas & Kempis, the pseude- 


grreus (time, Henry I.). 


*,* If Thomas the Rhymer lived in 
the * thirteenth century, it is an ana- 
chronism to allude to bim in Custle 
Danyerous, the plot of which novel is 
laid in the twelfth century. 

*,* Thomas the Rhymer, and Thomas 
Rymer were totally ditferent persons. 

e latter was an historiographer, who 
aah i The Fadera (1638-1713). 


as (Sir), a native of Poperyng, 
in Flas ers; a capital sportsman, archer, 
wrestler, and runner. Sir Thopas re- 
solved to marry no one but an “elf 
queen,” and accordingly started for Fatry- 
land. On his way, he met the three- 
headed giant Olifaunt, who challenzed 
him to single combat. Sir Thopas asked 
permissinn to yo for his armour, and 
promised to meet the giant next day. 
Here mine host broke in with the ex- 
clamation, ‘‘ Intolerable stuff!" and the 
story was Icft unfinished. — Chaucer, 
Canterbury Tales (‘*The Rime of Sir 
Thopas,” 138%). 


Thor, eldest son of Odin and Frigya; 
stronyest and bravest of the vods. He 
launched the thunder, presided over the 
air and the seasons, and protected man 
from lightning and evil spirits. 

His wife was Sif (‘ love”). 

His chariot was drawn by two he- 
goats. 

His mace or hammer was called 
Mjolner. 

His belt war Morin: rinra = Whanawae 





28 ae 


THOROUGH DOCTOR. 


Thorough Doctor (The). William 
Varro was called Doctor Fundatus (thir- 
teenth century). 


Thoughtful (Father), Nicholas 
Cat’inet, a marshal of France. So called 
by his soldiers for his cautious and 
thoughtful policy (1637-1712). 


Thoughtless (iss Betty), a vir- 
tuous, sensible, and amiable young lady, 
utterly revardless of the conventionalities 
of society, and wholly ignorant. of eti- 
qu.tte. She is consequently for ever 
involved in petty scrapes most mortifying 
to her sensitive mind. Even her lover is 
alarmed at her yuucherie, and deliberates 
whether such a partner for life is de- 
sirable. — Mrs. Hevwood, Afiss Betty 
Thowyshtless (1697-1758). 

(Mrs. Ileywood's novel evidently sng- 
gested the Lcelina of Miss Bumey, 
177%.) 

Thoulouse (Raymond count of), one 
of the crusading princes.—Sir W. Scott, 
Cuunt Robert of Paris (time, Rufus). 


Thraso, a bragging, swaggering 
captain, the Roman Bobadil (q.e.).— 
Terence, The Lunuch. 


Thraso, duke of Mar, one of the allies 
of (harlemagne. — Ariosto, Orlando 
Furivso (1516). 


Threadneedle Street (London), a 
corre ption of Thridenal Street, icc. the 
third street from Cheapside. (Anglo- 
Saxon, thriddu, ‘ third.” 


Three a Divine Number. Py- 
thayoras calls three the perfect number, 
expressive of “beginning, middle, and 
end,’ and be makes it a symbol of deity. 


AMERICAN IxDIANS: Otkon (creator), 
Messou (providence), Atahuata (the 
mos). 


(Called Otkon by the Iroquois, and 
Othee by the Virsinians.) 

Armonica. The korrigans or fays of 
Armorica are three times three. 

Branoins: Brhma, Vishnu, Siva. 

Bepprists : Buddha, Annan Sonsja, 
Rosia Sonsja. 

(These are the three idols seen in 
Buddhist temples ; Buddha stands in the 
middle.) 

CHRISTIANS: The Father, the Son (the 
Loins), the Holy Ghost. 

When, in creation, the earth was with- 
out ferm and void, ‘the Spirit moved 
over the face," and put it into order. 

Eoyetians (Ancient). Almost each 
mome had its own triad, but the most 





997 THREE A DIVINE NUMBER, 





neral were Osiris, Ieis, Horus; Eicton, 

eph (creator), Phtha.—Jamblichus. 

Erruscans. Their college consisted 
of three times three gods. 

Lars Porstna of Clusium, 
By the nine be swore 
the great of Tarqain 
Should suffer wrong no more. 
Lord , Lays of Ancient Rome 
(** Horatius,” 1843). 

KAMTSCHADALES: Koutkhou (creator 
of heaven), Kouhttigith, his sister (creator 
of earth), Outleigin (creator of oosan). 

Parsees: Ahura (the creator), Voha 
Mano (‘‘entity"), Akem Mano (‘‘non- 
entity "’). 

Persians: Oromasdés or Oromi&zés 
(the good principle), Arimanés (the evil 
principle), Mithras ( fecundity). 

Others give Zervané (yod the father), 
and omit Mithras from the trinity. 

PeRcvians (Ancient): Pachama (qod- 
dess mother), Virakotcha (=Jupitter), 
Mamakotcha (= Neptune). They called 
their trinity ‘‘ Tanyatanya” (i.e. ‘‘ three 
in one”). 

PHeenictans: Kolpia (the Logos), Ba- 
aut (‘darkness "), Mot (‘‘ matter”). 

Romans (Ancient): Jupiter (god of 
hearen), Neptune (yod of earth and sea), 
Pluto (youd of hell). 

(Their whole college of gods consisted 
of four times three deities.) 

ScANDINAVIANS: Odin (“life”), Hae 
nir (‘‘ motion "), Loda (‘‘ matter”). 

TAHITIANS: Tarcataihetoomoo (chief 
deity), Tepaps (the fecund principle), 
Tettoomatatayn (their offspring). 

Lao-Tseu, tne Chinese philosopher, 
says the divine trinity is: Ki, Hi, Ouei. 

Orpheus save it is: Phanés (light), 
Uranos (Aeuren), Kronos (time). 

Plato says it is: To Agathon 
ness), Nous (intellijence), Psuché (the 
mundine soul), 

Pythagoras savs it is: Monad (the 
unit or oncness), Nous, Psuché. 

Vossius says it is: Jupiter (divine 
power), Minerva (the Loyos), Juno (divine 
proyenitivencss). 

Swhordinate. The orders of ANGEL» 
are three times three, viz.: (1) Seraphim, 
(2) Cherubim, (3) Thrones, (4) Dominions, 
(5) Virtues, (6) Powers, (7) Principalities, 
(8) Archangels, (9) Angels.—Dionyrins 
the Areopdyite. 

In beaven above 
The effulgent hands in triple circles move. 
Tamo, Jerusatem Detiwered, xi. 13 (17H 

The Cities or ReruGe were three on 
each side the Jordan. 

The Fares are three: Clotho (with her 
distaff, presides at birth), Lachtsis (spins 








THREE ARDENT LOVERS, ETC. 999 THREE COUNSELLING KNIGHTS. 


Awd full of voires, dowly rose and plunged, 
owing. anid al) thie wave wee in a flame. . 
Tennyam, Tha Moy Grad! (1553-50), 
A wonder is said to last three times 
three days. The scourge used for 
criminals ia a ‘cat o' nine tails.” Pos- 
Session is nine points of the law, being 
equal to (1) money to make good a 
claim, (2) patience to carry o suit 
through, (3) a good canse, (4) a good 
lawyer, (5) a good counsel, (G) good 
witnesses, (7) a good jury, (8) a good 
judge, (9) wood luck, ases used to be 
granted for 909 years. OUrdeals by fire 
eoustated of three times three red-hot 
ploughshares, 
There are three times three crowns 


recoynized in heraldry, aod three times | 


three marks of cadencr. 
We show honour by a three times 
three in drinking a health. 


The worthies are three Jews, three | 


agans, and three Christiana: viz., 
Joshua, David, and Judas Maccabeus ; 
Hectur, Alexander, and Jolius Coesar; 
Arthur, Charlemagne, and Godfrey of 
Bouillon, The worthies of London are 
three times three also: (1) sir William 
Walworth, (2) sir Henry Pritchard, (3) 
sir William Sevenoke, (4) sir Thomas 
White, (5) sir John Bonham, (6) Chris- 
topher Croker, (7) sir John Hawkwood, 

) sir Hugh Caverley, (9) sir Henry 
Inleverer (Richari) Johnson, Zhe Nine 
WortAwes of London), 

*.* Those who take any interest in this 
eubject can easily multiply the examples 
here set down to a much yreater oumber, 
(See below, the Welsh Triads.) 


Three Ardent LoversofBritain 
(TAr): (1) Caswallawn son of Beli, the 
ardent lover of Flur daughter of Mug- 
nach Giort; (2) Tristan or Tristram son 
of Talluch, the arnlent lover of Yeseult 
wife of Mareh Meirchawn his uncle, 
renerally called kinge Mark of Cornwall ; 
(3) Kynoen son of Clydno Eiddin, the 
ardent lover of Morvyth daughter of 
Urien of Kheyed.— Welsh Triads, 


Three Battle Knights (Ti) in 
the court of king Arthur: (1) Cadwr 
earl of Cornwall; (2) Launcelot du Lac; 
3) Owain sen of Unen prince of Rheged, 
ec. Cumberland and some of the ad- 
jacent lands. These three would never 
retreat from battle, neither for spear, 
nor awunl, nor arrow; and Arthur knew 
po shame in fight when they were preseut. 
— WelsA Trials, 


Three Beautiful Women (The) 





of the court of. king Arthur: (1) Gwen- 
hwyvar or Guenever wife of king Arthur; 
(2) Enid, who dressed a! ““ arure ae 
wife of Gerint; (3) Tegau o Tegau 
Euron.— Welsh Triads, 


Three Blessed Rulers (The) of 
the island of Britain: (1) Bran or Vran, 
son of Liyr, and father of Caradawe (Cu- 
ractacus). He was called ‘The Bleascd” 
because he introduced Christianity isto 
the nation of the Cymry from Rome; he 
learnt it during his seven years’ detention 
in that city with hia eon. (2) Llenrig 
ab Coel ab Cyllyn Sant, surnamed “‘ The 
Great Light." He built the cathedral of 


| Liandaff, the first sanctuary in Britain. 


(3) Cadwaladyt, who gave refuge to all 
believers driven out by the Saxons from 
England.— WelsA Triads, xxxv. 


Three Calenders (The), three 
sons of three kings, who assumed the 
disguise of begging dervises. Thev had 
each lost one eve. The three met in the 
house of Zobeidé, and told their re- 
aA tales in the presence of Haroun- 

-Raschid also in disguise, (See CALEN- 
neers, p. 150.) — Aralian Nights (“* The 
Three Calenders”). 


Three Chief Ladies (The) of the 
island of britain: (1) Branwen daughter 
of king Liyr, ‘the fairest damsel in the 
world;” (2) Gwenhwyvar or Guenever 
wife of king Arthur; (3) Ethelfled the 
wife of Athelred. 


Three Closures (The) of the island 
of Britain: (1) The head of Vran son of 
Llyr, surnamed “The Blessed," which 
was buried under the White Tower ot 
London, and so long as it remained there, 
no invader would enter the island. (2) 
The bones of Vortimer, surnamed “ The 
Blessed," buried in the chief harbour of 


| the island; so long as they reniained 


there, no hostile ship would approach the 
coast. (3) The dragons buried by Lludd 
pon of Beli, in the city of Pharaon, in 
the Snowdonrocks. (See Turee Fata. 
DiscLosurxs,)— WelsA Triads, liii, 


Three Counselling Enighta 
The) of the court of king Arthur: (1) 
ynon or Cynon son of Clydno Eiddin ; 
(2) Aron son of Kynfarch ap Meirchion 
Gul; (3) Liywarch Hén son of Elidir 
Lydanwyn. So long as Arthur followed 
the advice of these three, hia success was 
invariable, but when he neglected to 
follow their counsel, hia defeat was sure. 


| — Welsh Triads. 


—_——— 


-cf =grou anew saswerise 


The Mabinogion, 227. 

Three Disloyal Tribes (Zhe) of 
the island of Britain: (1) The tribe of 
Goronwy Pebyr, which refused to stand 
substitute for their lord, Llew Liaw 
Gyffes, when poisoned dart was shot at 
him by Llech Goronwy ; (2) the tribe 
of Gwrgi, which deserted their lord in 
Caer Greu, when he met Eda Glinmawr 
in battle (both were slain); (3) the 
tribe of Alan Vyrgan, which slunk 
away from their lord on bis journey to 
Camlan, where he was siain.— Welsh 
Triads, xxxv. 


Three Estates of the Realm: 
the nobility, the clergy, and the com- 
monalty. | 

N.B.—The sovereign is not one of the 
three estates. 


Three Fatal Disclosures (The) 
of the island of Britain: (1) That of the 
buried head of Vran ‘‘the Blessed” by 
king Arthur, because he refused to hold 
the sovereiynty of the land except by 
his own strength; (2) that of the bones 
of Vortimer by Vortigern, out of love 
for Ronwen (Kuowena) daughter of Hen- 
gist the Saxon; (3) that of the dragons 
in Snowdon by Vortigern, in revenge of 
the Cymryan displeasure ayainst him; 
having this done, he invited over the 
Saxons in his defence. (See THREE 
CLoscrus.)— Welsh Triads, liii. 


Three-Fingered Jack, the nick- 
name of a famous negro robber, who was 
tke terror of Jamaica in 1780. He was 
at length hunted down and killed in 
1781. 





oe: ee 


THREE-MEN WINE. 


1001 





THROGMORTON STREET. 





abducted for Julius Cesar, but was 
brought back by the prince. (2) Mana- 
wyddan son of Lliyr, when he sojourned 
in Lloegyr (England). (3) Llew Liaw 
Gyffes, when seeking arms from his 
mother.— Welsh Triads, cxxiv. 


** What craft shall we take?” said Manawyddan. ... 
** Let us take to making shoes.” . . . So he bought the 


beet curdwal . . . and got the best goldsmith to make 
makers of 


clasps. . . and he was called one of the three 
gold shoes.—The Mabineyion |" Manawyddan,” tweifth 
oe; tury). 

Three-Men Wine. Very bad wine 
‘a so called, because it requires one man 
to hold the victim, a second to pour the 
-wine down his throat, and the third is 
the victim made to drink it. 

Abraham Santa Clara, the preaching 
friar, calls the wine of Alsace ‘‘ three- 
nen wine.” 


Three r Cents. 
simplicity of the three per cents.” This 
was the saying of Dr. Scott (lord 
Stowell), brother of lord Eldon the 
great Admiralty judge. 


Three Robbers (The). The three 
stars in QOrion'’s belt are said to be 
‘‘three robbers climbing up to rob the 
Ranee’s silver bedstead.”—Miss Frere, 
Old Deccan Days, 28. 


Three Stayers of Slaughter 
(The): (1) Gwgawn Gleddvvrad; the 
name of his horse was Buchestom. (2) 
Morvran eil Teyid. (3) Gilbert mab 
Cadgy ffro.— Welsh Triads, xxix. 


Three Tailors of Tooley Street 
(The) three worthies, who held a meet- 
ing in Tooley Street for the redress of 
popular grievances, and addressed a peti- 
tion to the House of Commons, while 
Canning was prime minister, beginning, 
“We, the people of England.” 


Three Tribe Herdsmen of Bri- 
tain (7Zie): (1) Llawnrodded Varvawe, 
who tended the milch cows of Nudd 
Hael son of Senyllt; (2) Bennren, who 
kept the herd of Carndawe son of Brin, 
Glamorganshire; (3) Gwdion son of 
Don the enchanter, who kept the kine 
of Gwynedd above the Conway. All 
these herds consisted of 21,000 milch 
cows.— Welsh Trams, Ixxxv. 


Three Tyrants of Athens (The): 
Pixistratos (n.c. 560-490), Hippias and 
Hipparchos (n.c. 527-490). 

(The two brothers reigned conjointly 
from 527-514, when the latter was mar- 
dered.) 


‘*The sweet 


(The) of the island of Britain: (1) Rhy- 
awd son of Morgant; (2) king Arthur 
8) Cadwallawn son of Cadvan.— We 
ads , Ixxxix. 113. 


Three Weeks after Marriage, 
a comedy by A. Murphy ii. sir 
Charles Racket has married the hter 
of a rich London tradesman, and three 
weeks of the honeymoon having expired, 
he comes on a visit to the ladv’s father, 
Mr. Drugget. Old Dragget plames him-~ 
self on his aristocratic son-in-law, so 
far removed from the vulgar brawls of 
meaner folk. On the night of their 
arrival, the bride and bridegroom quarrel 
about a game of whist; the lady main- 
tained that sir Charles ought to have 
played a diamond instead of aclub. So 
angry is sir Charles tbat he resolves to 
have a divorce; and although the quarrel 
is patched up, Mr. Drugget has seen 
enough of the beau monde to decline the 
alliance of Lovelace for his second 
daughter, whom he gives to a Mr. 
Woodley. 


Three Writers (The). The Scrip- 
tores Tres are Richardus Corinensis, 
Gildas Badonicus, and Nennius Ban- 
chorensis ; three who wrote on The 
Ancient History of the British Nation, 
edited, etc., by Julins Bertram (1757). 

*.* The Five Writers or Seri 
Quinque are five English chronicles on 
the carly history of England, edited by 
Thomas Gale (1691). The names of these 
chroniclers are: William of Malmesbury, 
Henry of Huntingdon, Roger Hoveden, 
Ethelwerd, and Ingulphus of Croyland. 

The Ten Writers or Scriptores Decem 
are the authors of ten ancient chronicles 
on English history, compiled and edited 
by Roger Twysden and John Selden 
(1652). The collection contains the 
chronicles of Simeon of Durham, John 
of Hexham. Richard of Hexham, Ailred 
of Rieval, Ralph de Diceto, John Bromp- 
ton, Gervase of Canterbury, Thomas 
Stubbs, William Thorn, and Henry 
Knighton. (Sce S1x CitRONICLEs.) 


Thresher (Captain), the feigned 
leader of a body of lawless Irishmen, 
who attacked, in 1806, the collectors of 
tithes and their subordinates. 

Captain Right was a leader of the 
rebellious peasantry in the south ef Ire- 
land in the eighteenth century. 

Captain Rock was the assumed name 
of a leader of Irish insurgents in 1822. 


Three Unprofessional Bards Throgmorton Street ‘Londun), 








THUNDER. 


occurs, 

Silage Uiandrs Hauke brynge the deathe of learned 
men, judges, and 3; Mondayes thundre, the deathe 
of women ; ruanaye. tesedie plentie of graine ; ide hard 


shede: Thursdayes thundre, plen pe aud corne; 
Fridayes thundre, the slaughter of a great man and other 
horrible murders ; pdre, a generall 

great Preg- 


lent —L 

co est, pial ond rest, denies. Bye (1950), 
Thunder (The Giant), a giant who fell 

into a river and was killed, use Jack 

cut the ropes which suspended a bridge 

which the giant was about to cross.— 

Jack the Giant- Killer. 


Thunder (The Sons of). James and 
John, the sons of Zebedee, were called 


ee ae ix. 54; Mark iii. 
Thunder and Lightning. Stephen 
Il. of Hungary was summa Tonnant 


(1100, 1114-1131). 


Thunderbolt (Zhe). Ptolemy king 
of Macedon, eldest son of Ptolemy Sotér 
}., was so called from his great impetu- 
osity (B.C. *, 285-279), 

Handel was called by Mozart ‘‘ The 
Thunderbolt " (1684-1759). 


Thunderbolt of Italy 
Gaston de Fuix, nephew of Louis 
(1489-1512). 


Thunderbolt of War( The). Roland 
is oh called in Spanish ballads. 
saphernés is 80 called in Tasso’s Jeru- 
Pty livered, xx. (1575). 


Thunderer (Zhe), the Times news- 
paper. This popular name was first 
given to the Journal in allusion to a 
parayraph in one of the articles con- 
tributed by captain Edward Sterling, 
while Thomas Barnes was editor. 


We thundere! fourth the other day an article on the 
eubject of sucial and pulitical refurm. 


(The), 
XIi. 


Some of the contemporaries caught up 
the expression, and called the Tunes ‘‘ The 
Thunderer.” Captain Sterling used to 
sin himself ‘ Vetus” before he was 
placed on the staff of the paper. 


Thundering Legion (The), the 
twelfth levion of the Roman act A 
under Marcus Aurelius actin 
the (luadi, a.p. 174. It was anat ua up ee 
a detile, and reduced to great straits 
for want of water, when a body of Chris- 
tians, enrolled in the legion, prayed for 
relief. Not only was rain sent, but the 
thunder and lightning eo terrified the foe 
that a complete victory was obtained, and 


1008 
ing to the day of the week on which it 


THYESTEAN REVENGE. 


ay 





Thundering Legion.”—Dion Cassius, Ro- 
man History, 1xxi. 8; Eusebius, Eccles 
astical Histury, v. 5. 

‘The Theban legion, i.e. the legion raised 
in the Thebals of Egypt, and composed 
of Christian soldiers ted by St. Maurice, 
was likewise called ‘‘The Thundering 


Fret term ‘‘ Thundering Legion” existed 
before either of these two were so called. 


Thunstone (2 syi.), the successor cf 
king Arthur, in whose reign Tom Thumb 
was killed by a spider.—Zom Thum. 


Thu’rio, a foolish rival of Valentina 


| for the love of Silvia daughter of the 


the legion was ever after called “The 


| History of T 


duke of Milan.—Shakespeare, 
Gentlemen of Verona (1595). 


Thursday is held Le eae by the 
Swedes; so is it with 
especially in Esthonia. 


Thursday (Black). February 6, 1851, is 
so called in the colony of Victoria, from 
a terrible bush fire which occurred on 
that day. 


Thwacker (Quartermaster), in the 
dragoons. — Sir W. Scott, Redyauntlet 
(time, George IIT.). 


Thecus ? in Fielding’s novel, The 
unes, a Fuundliny (1749). 


Thyamis, an Egyptian thief, native 
of me is. Theagénés and Chariclaa 
being taken bv him prisoners, he fell in 
love with the lady, and shut her up in a 
cave for fear of losing her. Being ¢ osely 
beset by another gang stronger than his 
own, he ran his sword into the heart of 
Chariclea, that she might with him 
into the land of shadows, and be his com- 
panion in the future life.—Lleliodorus, 


The Two 


sEthwpica, 
Like to the Exyptian thief, at polnt of death, 
Kill what I love. 
Shakespeare, Twelfth Nighs, act v. sc. 1 (1614), 


Thyeste’an Banquet (in Latin 
cena Phyeste), acannibal feast. Thyestés 
was given his own two sons to ent in a 
banquet served up to him by his brother 
Atreus [ Aé.truce]. 

Procné and Philoména served up to 
Tereus (2 sy/.) his own son Itys. 

*,* Milton accents the word on the 
second syllable in Paradise Lost, x. 688, 
but then he calls Chalybe’an (Samson 
yeaa, 133) “ Chalyb’ean,” y, J 
(Paradise Lost, i. 745) ‘‘ Z’gean,” and 
Cambuscan’ he calls “ Cambus’can.” 


Thyeste’an Revenge, blood for 
blood, tit for tat of bloody vengeance. 


7 


sor 
a 


i a 


waves sausTUd LISLE, 

2. Atreus slew his own son Plisthenés 
thinking him to be his brother's child 
When he found out his mistake, he pre. 
tended to be reconciled to his brother 
and asked him to a banquet. Thyesté: 
went to the feast, and ate part of bis owr 
two sons, which had been cooked, anc 
were set before him by his brother. 

3. Thyestés defiled the wife of his 
brother Atreus, and Atreus married Pe- 
lopia the unwedded wife of his brother 
Thyestés. It was the son of this woman 
by Thyest¢s who murdered Atreus (his 
uncle and father-in-law). 

*,* The tale of Atreus and that of 
CEdipus arc the two most lamentable 
stories of historic fiction, and in seme 
points resemble each other: Thus Gidi- 
pus married his muther, not knowing 
who she was; Thvestés seduced his 
daughter, not knowing who she was. 
(Edipus slew his father, not knowing 
who he was; Atreus slew hia son, not 
knowing who he waz. (Edipus was 
driven from his throne by the sons born 
to him by his own mother; Atreus 
[ At'.ruce] was killed by the natural son 
of lis own wife. 


Thymbree’'an God (Tie), Apollo ; 
so called from a celebrated temple raised 
to his honour on a hill near the river 
Thy mbrius. 


The Thymbraan god 
With Mars I saw aiid Paliaa 


Danté, Pergatory, xii. (1308) 
Thyrsis, a herdeman introduced in 








TIBERT. 


1005 





TIDE-WAITERS. 





lend us the tub any longer."—Goldamith, 
A Citizen of the World (1759), 


Tibert (Sir), the name of the cat, in 
the beast-epic of Reynard the For (1498). 


Tibet Talkapace, a prating hand- 
maid of Custance the gay and nich widow 
vainly sought by Kalph Roster Doister. 
—Nicholas Udall, Kalph oister Doister 
{firat English comedy, 1534). 
~ ‘The metre runs thos : 

1 hearde oor nouret speaks of an himbands to-day 
Beady for oir mistresee, o rich nian wel gny | 

dod we shall oe in or French bewdeeorery day... 
Then shall ye eee Tibet, elrea,treade the mousse ep trimene. ,. 
Kot bumpenie, clamperdes, like cur Spaniel Rig. 

Tibs (.Vr.), a most “useful hand.” 
He will write vou a receipt for the bite 
of a mad doy, tell vou an Eastern tale to 
perfection, and understands the business 
part of an author so well thatno publisher 
can humbug him. You may know him 
by hia peculiar clumsiness of figure, and 
the coarseness of his coat: but he never 
forgets to inform you that his clothes are 
all paid for. (See Tinns.)—Goldsmith, 
A Citizen of the World, xxix. (1759), 


Tibs’s Eve (5/.), never. 5t. Tibs is 
a curruption of St. L bes. There is no such 
gaint in the calendar; and therefore St. 
Tibe's Eve falls neither before nor after 
New Year's Day, 

Similar plmses are: “The Latter 
Lammas,” the “Greek Kalends,” the 
“week of two Thursdays,” when * Shrove 
Tuesday falls on Wednesday,” “ once in 
a blue moon,” “in the reign of queen 
Dick," “when two Sundays meet,” etc. 


Tibullus (The French), the chevalier 
Evariste de l’arny (1742-1514), 


Tiburce (2 or & syi.), brother of 
Valirian, converted by St. Cecile, his 
sister-jn-law, and baptized by pope Urban, 
Being brought before the prefect Alma- 
ehius, and commanded to worship the 
image of Jupiter, he refused to do ao, and 
was decajitated.—(Chaucer, Cunterdury 
Jules (** Second Nun's Tale,” 13848). 

*.* When Tiburce i followed by a 
vowe! itis made 2 syl., when by a con- 
sonant itis i syi., as: 


And after this, Tihuree jo grand emt (5 api), 

W ih Valirion io pope Cris wero. 

i thie ching ache uote Tibaroe Lode (3 appl, \. 
Chainer 


Tibur’szio, commander of the Pisans 
In their attack upon Florence, in the 
fifteenth century. The VPisans were 
thorvughly beaten by the Florentines, 
Jed by Lu'ria a Moor, and Tiburzio wna 
taken captive. Tiburzio tells Luria that 


the men of Florence will cast bim off after 
peace ia established, and advises him to 
join Pisa, This Luria is far too noble ts 
do, but he grants Tiburzio his liberty, 
Tiburzio, being-examined by the countil 
of Florence, under the hope of finding 
some cause of censure against the Muor, 
to lessen or cancel their obligation to him, 
“testifies to his unflinching probity,” 
and the council could find no cause of 
blame; but Luria, by poison, relieves 
the ungrateful state of its obligation to 
him.—Kobert Browning, Luria, 


Ticlitorne Dole (Zhe). When lady 
Mabella was dying, she requested her hus- 
band to grant her the means of leaving 
a charitable bequest. It was to be a dolo 
of bread, tu be distributed annually on the 
Feast of the Annunciation, to any who 
chose to apply for it. Sir Roger, her 
husband, said he would give her as much 
land as ehe could walk over while a billet 
of wood remained burning, The old lady 
was taken inte the park, and managed to 
crawl over twenty-three acres of land, 
which was accordingly set apart, and is 
called “The Crawls” tothishour, When 
the lady Mabella was taken back to bes 
chamber, she said, ‘' So long as this dols 
is continued, the family of Tichborne 
shall prosper; but immediately it is dis- 
continued, the house siiall fall, from the 
failureof anheir male. This," she added, 
“will be when a family of seven 2ons is 
succeeded by one of seven daughter." 
The custom began in the reign of Henry 
II., and continued till 1796, when, sin- 
gularly enough, the baron had seven sons 
and his suceeseor seven danghtera, and 
Mr. Edward Tichborne, who inherited the 
Doughty estates, dropping the original 
name, called himself sir Kdward Doughty. 


Tickell (Jfart), a wsefal friend, 
especially to Elsie Lovell. — Wybert 
Reeve, Jarted. 


Tickler ( Timothy), an ideal portrait of 
Robert Sym, a lawyer of kdinburgh 
(1750-1844).—Wilson, Noctes Ambrosian 
(1822-36), 

Tiddler. 
GROUND.) 


Tiddy-Doll, a nickname given w 
Richard Grenville lord Temple (1711- 
1770). 

Tide-Waiters (£celesiastical). So 
the Rev. lord Osborne (5, G. 0.) calls 
the clergy in convocation whose votes dy 
not correspond with their real opinions. 


(See Tom Trppiexe 






TIDER. 


| Tider (Robin), one of the servants of | 
the earl of Leicester.—Sir W. Scott, 
Xenilworth (time, Elizabeth), 


Tiffany, Miss Alscrip’s lady’s-maid 
rt, silly, bold, and a conuethe: aii 
Reftior an The Heiress (1781). 


gene a clever impostor, 
who a es wits. Ho starts a 
bubble alte I office “the Anglo- 
Bengalee Company "—and makes con- 
siderable gain thereby. Having dis- | 
covered the attempt of Jonas Chuzzlewit 


to murder his father, he compels him to | [@47 


ut his money in the ‘new company,” 
ut Jonas finds means to murder him,— 
C. Dickens, Martin Chuzzlewit (1844), 
Tiglath-Pile'ser, son of Pal, 
second of the sixth dynasty of the new 
Assyrian empire. The word is Ziglath 
Pul Assur, “ the great tiger of Assyria.” 


igre, ‘nes (3 syl.), one of the heroes 
o by the impetuous Dudon soon after 
the arrival of the Christian army before 
Jerusalem.—Tasso, Jerusalem Delivered, 
iii. (1575). 

Tigra'nes (3 syl.), king of Arme'’nia. | 
—Beaumont and Fletcher, A Aiwy or No | 
King (1619). 

ress Nurse (A). Tasso says 
that Clorinda was suckled by @ tigress. 


— Terusniem Delivered ~ii_ 











TIMIAS. 


& GG. 0. tha Ber, lord Bidney Godolphin Osborne, o 
olunteer cotrespiulent, 

SrectaL Comagsrospeyrt, Dr. W. Howard Ruwell, 
temo for his letter from the Crimde, in 184; from 
fodlia, ie 1857; from America, in lt]; from Dobensia, 
in 18; from France, on the Franco- 1 war, lo 
IS 0-71; etc. Ueradonally, mptain Howler bas ached as 


* Chae earn smdent.” 
i Plone commpondent. 


VETUA capt. Elw. Steril 
WiaTus, Julio Alemnaler a Onto corre 


leok 
*," Paper la mpplied from the Taverham Milla; ink 


by Mears, Fleming and Co., Leith, and by Mears. Black- 
wall and Uo.. Lomlon; Dolly joe, between 70,000 and 
000, which cao be Loreen (rom the pres in two hours} 
Working Stay, 369 hands 

Called “* The Thunderer" from an article 
contributed by captain E. Sterling, be- 
gionirg: ** We thundered forth the other 
day an article on the enbject of social 
and political reform ;" and “The Turn- 
about,” because its wernt jem | with the 
times, and are not fossilized whig or tory. 





Tim'ias, king Arthur's ‘squire. He 
went after the “wicked foster," from 
whom Florimel fled, and the “* foster™ 
with his two brothers, falling on him, were 
all slain. Timias, overcome by fatigue, 
now fell from his horee in a swoon, and 
Itelphorbé the huntress, happening to see 
him fall, ran to his succonr, applied an 
ointment to his wounds, and bound them 
with ber scarf, The‘squire, opening his 
eyes, exclaimed, ‘Angel or goddess; do 
I call thee right?" ‘' Neither,” replied 
the maid, * but only a wood-nymph.” 
Phen was he set npon his horse and taken 
to Pelpharhé's pavilion, where he soon 
“recovered from his wounds, but lost his 
heart" (bk. iit. 6). In bk. iv. 7 Bel- 
pho-l4 subsequently found Timias in 
dalliance with Amoret, and said to him, 
“le this thy faith?" She said no more, 
“but turned her face and fled.” This is 
an allusion to sir Walter Raleigh's amour 
with Elizabeth Throgmorton (Amore?), 
one of the queen's maida of honour, 
which drew upon sir Walter ( Zimety) the 
passionate displeasure of bis royal mis- 
trees (/ieiphorbe or queen Elizabeth).— 
Spenser, fuery Queen, iii, (1590), 


Timms ((Cvrporal), a non-com- 
Mmissioned offcer in Waverley’s regi- 
ment.—Sir W,. Scott, Warericy (time, 
George IT.). 

Timo'leon, the Corinthian. He 
hated tyranny, and slew hia own brother, 
whom he dearly loved, because he tried 
ti make himaelf alsolute in Corinth. 


“Timophinces he loved, bat freedom 


mere,” 


= The fair Corinthian ee 
moalesn, happy beruperr, fll firm, 
Who wert the wolber while Ube tyrant bled. 


Tixenaun, Tha Seaeens (“ Winter,” 1730. 


1007 


| vided but lukewarm water, 





TINACRIO. 


Timon the Man-hater, an Athenian 
who lived in the time of the Pelopon- 
nesian war. Shakers has a drama 
so called (1609), q he drama begins 
with the joyous life of Timon, and his 
hospitable extravagance; then launches 
into hia pecuniary embarrass ment, and the 
discovery that his ‘* professed friends” 
will not help him; and ends with his 
flight into the woods, his misanthrupy, 
and his death. 

When be [Merace Walpole) talked misanthropy, he 
out-Timoned Timon, —Macanhar. 

*,.* On one occasion, Timon said, “J 
have a fig tree in my garden which I 
once intended to cnt down; but I shall 
let it stand, that any one who likes may 
go and hang himself on it.” 

Timon’s Banquet, nothing but 
eover and warm water. Being shonned 
by his friends in adversity, he pretended 
to have recovered his money, and invited 
his false friends to a banquet. The table 
was laden with covers, but when the 
contents were exposed, nothing was pro 

875.) —Shak he arg 
CARAC, p. 8/5.)—Shakespeare, Jimon o 
Athens, act iii. sc. 6 (1609), y 


Timoth’eos, a musician, who charged 
double fees to all pupils who had learned 








| music before,—Quintilian, De Jnstitudione 


Orutorus, i. 3. 

Pours made him forget all that be [fia Ff a9 | 
hed lero’ under ofber masters, ma Le eaves) 
his disciple who hed en taught mug ty cthern— 
Rabelais, Garypantua, |. £3 || 553). 


Arid the tunefal quire, 
With fying fingers touched the lyre 
Derden, Abeomder's Feast (10071. 
: Timothy (Old), ostler at John Mengs's 
inn at Kirchhoff.—Sir W, Scott, Anne uf 
Geierstem (time, Edward IV). 


Timothy Quaint, the whimaica) 
but faithful steward of governor Heartall; 
blunt, self-willed, but loving his master 
above all things, and true to his interests, 
—Cherry, The Suldier's Dawyhter (1804), 


Ti’murkan the Tartar, and conqueror 
of China, After a usurpation of twenty 
base he was slain in rising of the people 

y Zaphimn ‘* the orphan of China," 

My mind) employe! on other arta: 

To eling the weliatured quiver 

this anm, ind wing the darts 

At the firet reindeer eweeping down the vale, 

Oh up the mountain straining every nerve; 

To rsalt (he neighing mee, and urge his cours, 

Bwifter that whirtwineds, toreugh the mnks of war p— 

Thew are my passions, this my only eclenes, 

Raid from a oldie? to impertal ewey, 

I ial wi) reign in iarror. 

Murphy, The Orphan 9 Chima, Ur. 1 

Tinacrio 


“the Sage,” father of 





1009 


TISAPHERNES. 





Tipple, in Dudley's Fitch of Bacon, 
first introduced John Edwin into notice 
(1750-1790). 

Edwin's ‘Ti 
exquisite treat.— 

Tippoo Saib (Prince), son of Hyder 
Ali aawaub of Riveore Sie W. Scott, 
in} Suryeon’s Daughter (time, Geor e 


Tips or ‘‘ Examination Crams.” Re- 
sognized stock picces of what is called 
“book work” in university examina- 
tions are: Fernat’s theorem; the ‘‘ Ludus 
Trojanus” in Virgil's ned (bk. vi.) ; 
Agnesi's ‘‘Witch;" the ‘‘Cissoid” of 
Divcles; and the famous fragment of 
Solon, generally said to be by Euripidés. 

In law examinations the stock pieces 
are the Justinian of Sandars ; the Digest 
of Eeidence of sir James Stephen; and 

e Ancient Law of sir Henry Maine. 

The following are recognized primers: 
—Mill's Loyic; Spencer's First Prin- 
anes Maine's Ancient Law; Lessing's 

tocgon ; Ritter and Preller’s Fraymenta ; 
Wheaton's /nternational Law. 


Tip-tilted. Tennyson says that 
Lynette had ‘‘ her slender nose tip-tilted 
like the petals of a flower.”—Tennyson, 
Gareth and Lynette (1858). 


Tiptoe, footman to Random and 
Scruple. ffe had seen better days, but, 
being found out in certain dishonest trans- 
actions, had lost grade, and ‘ Tiptoe, 
who once stood above the world,” came 
Into a position in which ‘all the world 
stood on Tiptoe.” He was a shrewd, 
lazy, knowing rascal, better adapted to 
dubious adventure, but always sighing 
for a snug berth in some wealthy, sober, 
old-fashioned, homely, county family, 
with good wages, liberal dict, and little 
work to do G,. Colman, Ways and 
Bleuns (1788), 


Tiran'te the White, the hero and 
title of a romance of chivalry. 


** Let me see that hook,” anid the curé; ‘‘ we shall @ad in 
fta fund of anusement. Here we shall find that famous 
kuiuht den Kyne Ensen of Muogtalban, and Thomas his 
Deother, with the knight Fonerca, the battle whieh Detrt- 
ants fought with Alano, the stratagems of the Widow 
Trawor, the anwer of the cuspres with ber ‘agulre, and 
the wittiaame oof tay Hrilhanta This is one of the 
os? anning books ever wrtten.”"—Cervantes, Don 
Q@utescte, 1. 


een 


"in the Pritceh ef Bacon, was an 


Tiresias, a Theban soothsayer, blind 
from boyhood. It is said that Athena 
deprived him of sight, but gave him the 
power of understanding the language of 

43 


birds, and a staff as good as eyesight to 
direct his way. Another tala is thet 
seeing a male and female serpent in 
copulation, he killed the male, and was 
metamorphosed into a woman; seven 
years later he saw a similar phenomenon, 
and killed the female, whereupon he be- 
came a man again. Thus, when Jupiter 
and Juno wished to know whether man 
or woman had the greater enjoyment in 
married life, they referred the question to 
Tirésias, who declared that the pleasure of 
the woman is tenfold greater than that 
of the man. (See Canevs.) 


There is an awkwani thing, which much perplezes, 
Unless, ike wise Tirésias, we had proved 
By tarns the difference of the several sexes. 
Byroa, Don Juan, xiv. 73 (1884). 
*,* The name is generally pronounced 
Ti.re’.si.as, but Milton calls it 7¥’.re.sas: 
Blind Thamyris and blind Mssonidés [ Zemer], 


And Tirés'as and Pbi. vA. old. 
cae eas peredion Loa, I. 38 (i600) 


Tirlsneck (Jonnie), beadle of old St. 
Ronan’s.—Sir W. Scott, &. Ronan's 
Well (time, George III.). 


Tirso de Moli’na, the pseudonym 
of Gabriel Tellez, a Spanish monk and 
dramatist. His comedy called Convivando 
de Piedra (1626) was imitated by Molitre 
in his Festin de Pierre (1665), and has 
given birth to the whole host of comedies 
and operas on the subject of ‘‘ don Juan” 
(1570-1648). 


Tiryns (The Gallery of), one of 
the old Cyclopean structures mentioned 
by Homer, and still extant in Argdlis. 
The stones of this ‘‘ gallery ” are so enor- 
mous that two horses could not stir the 
smallest of them. 

*,* Similar Cyclopean structures are 
the ‘‘treasury of Atreus,” the ‘‘ gate of 
Lions,” the ‘*tomb of Phordneus” (Bayi), 
and the ‘‘tomb of Dan&os,” all in 
Mycéne. 


Tiryn’'thian Swain (The), Her’- 
culés, called in Latin Zirynthius Heros, 
because he gencrally resided at Tiryns, 
a town of Ar’golis, in Greece. 

Upon his shield lay that Tirynthian swain 
tring in fiery gore and poisonous flame, 

His wife's nad gift venomed with bloody stain.[See Nussva,) 
Phineas Fletches, The Purple feland, vil. (1633). 

Tisapher’nes (4 sy/.), ‘‘the thunder. 
bolt of war.” He was in the army of 

T 


wen pevers 460 UUULUPIIDUCS, BUG 1185D0INB, 
with Iroldo, take poison to avoid dis- 
honour. Prasildo discovers that the 
draught they have taken is harmless, and 
tells them so; whereupon Iroldo quits the 
country, and Tisbina marries Prasildo. 
—Bojardo, Oriawio Innamorato (1495). 
$e) IANORA, p. 251; and DoriGEn, p. 


Tisellin, the raven, in the beast-epic 
of Reynard the Fux (1498). 


Tisiph’one (4 syl.), one of the three 
Furies. Covered with a bloody robe, she 
sita day and night at hell-gate, armed 
with a whip. ibullus says her head 
was coifed with serpents in lieu of hair. 

The Desert Fairy, with ber head covered with snakes, 
Tisipbuné, mounted un a winged grifin.—Comtese 
DAancy, Petry Tales (‘The Yellow Dwarf,” 1682). 

Ti’tan, the sun or Hé@lios, the child of 
Hyperi’on and Basil’ea, and grandson of 
Calum or heaven. Virgil cails the sun 
‘‘ Titan,” and so does Ovid. 


- . . Primos crastinus ortus 
Extulerit Titan, radimyue retexent orbem. 
afineid, tv. 118, 118 


A maiden queen that shone at Titan's ray. 
Spemer, Saery Yueen, L 4(1590) 

Titans, giants, sons of Heaven and 
Earth. Their names were Océinos, Koos, 
Krios, Hyperion, Japétos, and Kronos, 

The Titanidés were Theia [Thi-a], 
Rhea, Themis, Mnemosjné, Phasbé, and 
Tethys. 


Titan’'ia, queen of the fairies, and wife 
of Obéron. Obcron wanted her to give 


him for a nace a little ahan.e ln 





TITIAN. 


: Titian (The Portwyuese), Alonzo San- 
chez Coello (1515-1590). 
Titmarsh (Michael Angelo), a pseu- 


donym used by Thackeray in a number | 


of his earlier writings. Like Michael 
Angelo, Thackeray had a broken nose. 


Titmouse (Mr. Tittiebat), a vulgar, | 


ignorant coxcomb, suddenly raised from 
the deyree of a linen-draper's shopman to 
a man of fortune, with an income of 
ere a year.—Warren, Zen Thousand 
@ i¢ar, 


Tito Mele’ma, a Greek, who marries 
Romola.—George Eliot, Romola. 


Titurel, the first king of Graal-burg. 


He has brought into subjection all his | 


passions, has resisted all the sedactions 
of the world, and is modest, chaste, pious, 
and devout. His daughter Siguné is in 
love with Tschionatulander, who is slain. 
—Wolfram von Eschenbach, T7iturel 
(thirteenth century). 

*,* Wolfram's TJiturel is a tedious 
expansion of a lay already in existence, 
and Albert of Scharfenberg produced a 
Young Titurel, at one time thought the 
best romance of chivalry in existence, 
but it is pompous, stilted, erudite, and 
wearisome. 


Titus, the son of Lucius Junius 
Brutus. He joined the faction of Tar- 
uin, and was condemned to death by his 
ather, who, having been the chief instru- 
ment in banishing the king and all his 
race, was created the first consul. The 
subject has been often dramatized. In 
English, by N. Lee (1679) and John 
Howard Payne (1820). In French, by 
Arnault, in 1792; and by Ponsard, ‘in 
1843. In Italian, by Alfieri, Bruto; etc. 
It was in Payne's tragedy that Charles 
Kean made 
** Titus,” his father playing ‘‘ Brutus.” 


Titus, ‘the delight ~ man,” the Roman 
emperor, son of Vespasian (40, 79-81). 


Titus, ‘he penitent thief, according te 
Longfellc 7. Dumdachus and Titus were 
two of a band of robbers, who attacked 
Joseph in his tlight into Egypt. Titus 
said, ‘Let these good ple _go in 
yeace ;” but Dumachue'replied: ‘* First let 


1011 


his début in Glasgow as | 








TLALALA. 


them pay their ransom.” Whereupon 
Titus ded to his companion forty 
groats ; and the infant Jesus said t him : 


On the accurséd tree. 
soem on My ser ne My tt eas 
These thieves both be crucified, 
Ané Titus thenceforth shall abide 
In with Me. 


. The Golden Legend (1851) 


Tityre Tus (long uw), the name 
assumed in the seventeenth century by a 


| clique of young blades of the better class, 


whose delight was to break windows, 
upset sedan-chairs, molest quiet citi 

and rudely caress pretty woisen in the 
streets at night-time. These brawlers 
took successively many titular names, 
as Muns, Hectors, Scourers, afterwards 
Nickers, later still Hawcabites, and lastly 
Mohawks or Mohocks. 

‘* Tityre tu-s” is meant for the plural 
of ‘‘ Tityre tu,” in the first line of Virgil's 
first Ecologue : ‘‘ Tityre, tu patule recubans 
sub tegmine fagi,” and meant to imply 
that these blades were men of leisure and 
fortune, who ‘‘lay at ease under their 
patrimonial beech trees.” 


Tit'yrus, in the me (aera Calendar. 
by Spenser (ecl. ii. and vi.), is meant for 


ucer. 


Tityus, a giant, whose body covered 
nine acres of ground. In Tartdrus, two 
vultures or serpents feed for ever on his 
liver, which grows as fast as it is gnawed 
away. 

Prométheus (3 sy/.) is said to have 
been fastened to mount Caucasus, where 
two eagles fed on his liver, which aever 
wasted. 


with 
Hu von’ Powerlom be bo pat te alaht 
ver. 
To thie | Jedged 
For rape intended on 


Fenton's Homer's Odgeseg, xi. (17M. 


Tiso’na, the Cid'’s sword. It was 
buried with him, as Joyeuse (Charie- 
magne's sword) was buried with Charie- 
magne, and Durind&na with Orlando. 


Tlal’ala, surnamed ‘The Tiger,” 
one of the Aztécas. On 

being taken captiv e 

but he continued the unrelenting foe of 
Madoc and his new colony, and 
always foremost in working them evil, 





TODD. 


daughter's wedding.—C. Dickens, Zhe 
Chiines (1844). 


Todd (Laurie), a poor Scotch nail- 
m.aker, who emirates to America, and, 
after some reverses of fortune, begins life 
again as a backwoodsman, and greatly 
prospera.—Galt, Laurie Todd. 


Tod’gers (jfrs.), proprietress of a 
“commercial boarding-house ;" weighed 
down with the overwhelming cares of 
‘(snuces, gravy,” and the wherewithal of 

rovidiny for her lodgers. Mrs. Todyers 
fad a ‘soft heart” for Mr. Pecksniff, 
widower, and being really kind-hearted, 
befriended poor Mercy Pecksniff in her 
miserable married life with her brutal 
husband Jonas Chuzzlewit.—C,. Dickens, 
Martin Chuzzlewit (1844). 


Tofa’na, of Palermo, a noted poisoner, 
who sold a tasteless, colourless poison, 
called the Afunna of St. Nicola of Bara, 
but better known as Aqua Tufana. 
Above 600 persons fell victims to this 
fatal drug. She was discovered in 1659, 
and died 1730. 

La Spara or Hicronyma Spara, about a 
century previously, sold an ‘ elixir” 
equally fatal. The secret was ultimately 
revealed to her father confessor. 


Tofts (Mistress), a famous singer 
towards the close of the eighteenth 
century. She was very fond of cats, and 
left a legacy to twenty of the tabby 
tribe. 


Not Niobé mourned more for fourteen brats, 
Nor Mistress Tofts, to leave her twenty cats. 
Peter Pindar (Dr. Wolcot] Old Simon (1808). 


Togar’ma, (‘‘ island of blue waves"), 


one of the Hebridés.—Ossian, Death of 


Cuthullin. 


Togorma, the kingdom of Connal 
won of Colgar.—Ossian, Finjal. 


Tohu va Bohu, at sixes and sevens, 
in the utmost confusion, topsy-turvy. 

The earth was tohu va boho, that is, vold and in con- 
fudion .. . in shart, a chaos. This may weil he 
to a quountry desolated by war. [Note by Fait. ‘a 
od .}—Kabelais, Puntayrwel, iv. 17 (1645). 

Toinette, a confidential female ser- 
vant of Argan the malude imavinaire. 
‘‘ Adroite, sdigneuse, diligente, et surtout 
fidele,” but contractious, and always 
calling into action her master's irritable 
temper. In order tc cure him, she pre- 
tends to be a travelling physician of 
about 90 years of aye, although she has 
not seen twenty-six summers; and in the 


capacity of a Galen, declares it. Argan is 





1018 


eee ap ED 


TOLMETES. 


suffering from lungs, recommends that 
one arm should be cut off, and one eye 
taken out to strengthen the remaining 
one. She enters into a plot to open the 
eyes of Argan to the real affection of 
Angelique (his daughter), the false love 
of her step-mother, and to marry the 
former to Cleante the man of her choice, 
in all which schemes she is fully success- 
ful. — Molitre, Le AMMalade Jmaginaire 
(1673). 


Toison d’Or, chief herald of Bur- 
gundy.—Sir W. Scott, Quentin Durwurd 
and Anne of Geierstein (time, Edward 


Toki, the Danish William Tell. Saxo 
Grammaticus, a Danish writer of the 
twelfth century, tells us that Toki once 
boasted, in the hearing of Harald Blue- 
tooth, that he could hit an apple with his 
arrow off a pole; and the Danish Geseler 
set him to try his skill by placing an 
apple on the head of the archer’s son 
(twelfth century). 


Tolande of Anjou, a daughter of 
old king Rend of Provence, and sister 
of Margaret of Anjou (wife of Henry VI. 
of Enyland).—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Geierstein (time, Edward IV.). 


Tolbooth (The), the princi risom 
of Edinborgh. ' P Pal P 


The Tolbooth felt defranded of his charms 
If Jeffrey died. except within her arms. 
Revlowers (1808). 


English Bards and Seoteh 
Lord Byron refers to the ‘duel ” 

between Francis Jeffrey editor of the 

Edinburgh Review, and Thomas Moore 

the poet, at Chalk Farm, in 1806. The 

duel was interrupted, and it was then 

found that neither of the pistols con- 

tained a bullet. 

Can none remember that eventful day, 

That ever-glorious, almost fatal fray, 

When Littie's | Themas Neore] lewtlen mast has epa, 

And Bow Street myrmidons stood by? 


Tole’do, famous for its sword-blades, 
Vienne, in the Lower Dauphiné, is aleo 
famous for its swords. Its martinets 
(i.e. the water-mills for an iron forge) 
are turned by a little river called Gere. 

Gargantua gave Touchfancet an excellent sword of a 
Vienne blaie with a golden scabbard.—Rabelais, Ger 
pantera, 1. 48 (1533). 


Tolme’tes (3 syil.), Foolhardiness 
personified in The Purple Island, fully 
described in canto viii. His companions 
were Arrogance, Brag, Carelessness, and 
Fear. ’ (Greek, tolmétés, “‘a foolhardy 
map.” 


woven anes £8 8 Baagne ve ascer BAPVEA ULSCUVErS 
the state of affairs, and clears out his 
household, he retains Tom, to whom he 
entrusts the cellar and the plate.—Rev. 
J. Townley, Huyh Life Beluw stairs 
(1759). 

Tom Folio, Thomas Rawlinson, the 
bibliopolist (1681-1725). 


Tom Jones (1 sy/.), a model ‘of 
generosity, openness, and manly spirit, 
mixed with dissipation. Lord Byron 
calls him “an accomplished blackguard ” 
(Pon Juan, xiii. 110, 1824).—Fielding, 

om Jones (1749). 

A hero vith a flawed reputation, a hero sponging for a 
qninen, a hero who canta pay his landlady, and is obliged 


Tom Jones to heroic rank is quite untenable.— 


Tom Long, the hero of an old tale, 
entitled Zhe Merry Cunceits of Tum Lon), 
the Currier, being muny Pleasant Passages 
and Mad Pranks which he observed in his 
Travels. This tale was at one time 
amazingly popular. 


Tom Scott, Daniel Quilp’s boy, 
Tower Hill. Although Quilp was a 
demon incarnate, vet ‘between the boy 
and the dwarf there existed a strange 
kind of mutual liking.” Tom was very 
fond of standing on his head, and on one 
occasion Quilp said to him, ‘‘Stand on 

our head again, and 1"ll cut one of your 
eet off.” 


The boy made no answer. but directly Quilp had shut 
him-eM in, stood on hus head hefore the door, then 
walked on bis bands to the back, and stuad on his head 
there, then to the Of poate ede and repeated the per- 
formanra Onble, rhe mee tribes chlawnwles ee a -— 8-8; 





TOM TILER AND HIS WIFE. 


1015 





TOMES. 





Tom Tiler and His Wife, « 
transition aa between a morality and 


@ tragedy (1578). 


Tom Tipple, a highwayman in 
captain Macheath's gang. Peachum calls 
him “a quzzling, soaking sot, always too 
drunk to stand himself or to make others 
stand, A cart," he says, ‘‘is absolutely 
necessary for him."—Gay, The Beggar's 


(pera, 1, (1727). 


Tom Tram, the hero of a novel 
entitled The Mad Pranks of Tom Tram, 
Sm-in- Law to Mother Winter, whereunto 
is added Ais Merry Jests, Odd Cunceits, 
and Pleasant Tales (woventeenth cen- 
tury). 

All youre wits that leer andl shan, 
Luvern fram dom Quinots te Tom Tro. 

Tom-a-Thrum, a sprite which 
figures in the fairy tales of the Middle 
Aves; a “queer-looking little auld man,” 
whose chief exploita were in the vaults 
and cellars of old castles. John Skelton, 
speaking of the clergy, saves: 

Alaa! for very chiaume, some connet declyne thelr meme ; 
Pome quinet soaely rede, Asal ped will pk Ses 
Fur wkhepo ea cure. , .. As oye oe Tom 

Calg (Vou (te, Heary Vil VIIL). 

Tom o’ Bedlam, a ticket-of-leave 
madman from Bethlehem Hospital, or one 
discharged as incurable, 


Tom of Ten Thousand, Thomas 
Thynne; so called from his great wealth. 
He was buried in Westminater Abbey, 
bat why, the then dean haa not thought 
ft to leave on record. 


Tom the Piper, one of the charac- 
tere in the ancient morris-dance, re- 
presented with a tabour, tabour-stick, and 
pipe. He carried a sword and shield, to 
denote his rank as a ‘‘ eqaire minstrel.” 
His ahoes were brown; his hose red and 
“ cimp-thizhed ;" his hat or cap red, 
turned up with yellow, and adorned with 
a feather; hia doublet Liue, the sleeves 
Loe vrige turned up with yellow; and be 
wore a yellow cape over his shoulders. 
(See Monris-DAnce.) 


Tom's, a noted coffee-house in Birchin, 


Lane, the usual rendezvous of young 
n erchants at ‘Change time, 


Tomahourich (Muime Janet of), 
an old sibyl, aunt of Robin Oig : M‘Com- 
bich the Highland drover,.—sir W. Scott, 
Tie Two Drovers (time, George II.). 

‘T'om’‘ali a “es sige Srey knight, 

omilin 


kinsman of 


not the same as “Tom Thumb, " as wo are 
generally but erroneously told, for in the 
‘mighty combat " Tomalin backed Pig- 
wiggen, while Tom Thom or Thumb 
seconded king Oberon. This fairy battle 
waa brought about by the jealousy of 
Oberon, who considered the attentions of 
Pigwiggen to queen Mab were “far too 
nice."—M. Drayton, Nymphidia (1568- 
1631), 


Tomb (Anight of the), James earl of 
Douglas in disguise. 


Hs armoor wee ingeniously paloted oo a4 to a 
gikeloton ; the riba being constituted 
it hack plore, “he shield represen 
Doheet which appemral to be 
itnage of the sme bird of 1 omen. 
particularly calculated to eorite eurpriss he te tpennann 
was the great height amd thinness of the —fir W, 
Beutt, Castle Dangereua, uly. (time, Henry 1). 


Tomboy (/'riscilla), a self-willed, 
hovdenish, ill-educated romp, of strong 
animal epirita, and wholly unconventional, 
She is m West Indian, left under the 


pore nee idag of Harnacle, and sent to 
mdon for her education, Misa Pria- 


cilla Tomboy lives with Barnacle's 
brother, old [Nicholas] Cockney, a 
rocer, Where she plays boy-an -girl 


love with young Walter Cockney, which 
consists chietly in pettish quarrels and 
personal insolence. Subsequently she 
rune off with captain Sightly, but the 
captain behaves well by presenting him- 
self next day to the quarihan, and obtain- 
ing his consent to marnage.— 
ure from Bickerstafl's Love in 
iy) 


Tomés [To-may], one of the five 
physicians called in by Sganarelle to 
consult on the malady of his daughter 
Lucinde (2 eyi.). Being told that a coach- 
man he was attending waa dead and 
buried, the doctor asserted it to be quite 
im possible, as the coschman had been ill 
only aix days, and Hippocrités had 
positively stated that the disorder would 
not come to its height till the fourteenth 
day. The five doctors meet in consulta- 
tion, talk of the town gossip, their 
medical experience, their visits, anything, 
in short, except the patient. At length 
the father enters to inquire what deci- 
sion they had come to, One says Luciide 
must have an emetic, M. Tomes says she 
must be blooded; one saya an emetic 
will be her death, the other that bleeding 
will infallibly kill her, 

M Tors Si vows ov faites eaigner tout & Dheure votre 


= cet ape persanng morta. 
ria Siveus in faites eulgner, elle ne sare 
oan Tit dad wn Qala -heore., 





TOMKINS. 


And they nit the house in great anger he 
act ii. }).-Moliere, L'Amoure Meédocin 
1665). 

M Yoonés Uhed correctues in medic) precios —Ma- 


Tomkins (Joseph), secret emissary 
of Cromwell, ie wie formerly Philip 
Hazeldine, alias Master Fibbet, secretary 
to colonel Desborough (one of the parlia- 
mentary commissioners).—Sir W. Seott, 
Woodstock (time, Commonwealth), 


Tom'yris, queen of the Masengtte, 
She defeated Cyrus, who had invaded her 
kingdom, and, having alain him, threw 
his head into a vessel filled with human 
blood, saying, ‘It was blood you thirsted 
for; now take your fill!" 


Great bronze valves embossed with T : 
Tennyson, The *, 
Yeas shown the acath and cruel mangling made 
By Tomgris on Cyrus, when she cried, 
- then didist thirst jor; take thy fill of bioed }* 
Deuitd, Puryatory, ail, (LS). 


Ton-Iosal was so heary and uon- 
wieldy that when he sat down it took 
the whole force of a hondred men to 
pet him upright on his feet again,—The 
Fiona, 

Uf Pion esa remarkable for tis sinters, . . . in welsh 
all yielded to the celelrated Ton-los—J. Macpherson, 
Hiscriativs on Codlan. 

Ton-Thena (‘fire of the ware"), a 
remarkable star which guided Larthon to 


Treland ne mentioned im Oeeian'’s Tien‘ 









TOOTH WORSHIPPED. 1017 TORMES., 
Tooth Worshipped (A). The | Mrs. Beecher Stowe, Unole Tom's Cabin 





people of Ceylon worship the tooth of an 
elephant; those of Malabar the tooth of a 
monkey. The Siamese once offered a 
Portuguese 700,000 ducats for the re- 
demption of a monkey's tooth. 


Tooth-picks. The Romans used | History of Prince Arthur, 


tooth-picks made of mastic wood in pre- 
ference to quills; hence Rabelais says that 
prince Garzantua ‘‘ picked his teeth with 
mastic tooth-pickers” (s'escuroit les dents 
evecques ung trou de lentisce), bk. i. 23. 
Lentiscum melius; sed si tibl frondea cuspls 
Deduorit, dentes, penna, levare potes. 
Martial, Xpigrams, xx. 94 
Toots (Mr.), an innocent, warm- 
hearted young man, just burst from the 
bonds of Dr. Blimber's school, and deepl 
in love with Flurence Dombey. He is 
famous for blushing, refusing what he 
longs to accept, and for saying, ‘‘ Oh, 
it is of no consequence.” Being very 





nervous, he never appears to advantaye, | 


but in the main ‘there were few better 


fellows in the world.” 


| turn, and each received it. 


““T asmure you,” sald Mr. Toots “ really I am dreadfully | 
Dickena, Dombey 


sorry, but it’s of no consequence.“—C. 
aad Son, rzvuil. (1546). 

Topas (Sir), a native of Poperyng, 
in Flanders ; a capital sportsman, archer, 
wrestler, and runner. Chaucer calls him 
“sir Thopas ” (y.0.). 


Topas (Sir), Sir Charles Dilke was so 
called by the Army and Navy Gazette, 
November 25, 1871 (1810-1869). 


Topham (Muster Charles), usher of 
the black rod.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of 
the Peuk (time, Charles IT.). 


To’phet, ‘‘the place of drums,” from 
topA (‘Sa drum”). So called in allusion 
to the druins and timbrels sounded in the 
valley of Hinnom to drown the cries of 
children sacrificed to this idol. Solomon 
introduced the worship, and built a temple 
to Moloch on the Mount of Olives, “ that 
opprobieus hill” (1 Atnys xf. 7). The 
valley of Hinnom is called Gehenna, and 


is made in the New Testament a ‘‘ type 
of hell.” 
. the heart 


aoe wisest 
Of Bulomon he led by frand to build 
His teinpl+ naht against the temple of God 
On tha opprobied: hill: and made his grove 
The pleasant valley of Hinnorn, Tupbet thence 
And black Gehenna called. the type of hell, 
Multon, Purudios Lost, |. 400, ete. (1685). 


TOpey: a young slave-girl, who never 
anew whether she had either father or 
mother, and being asked by Miss Ophelia 
St. Clare how she spa pate she came into 
the world, replied, ‘‘I ‘spects I yrowed."— 


| caught u 


EP Eee ee, 





(1852). 


Tor (Sir), the natural son of king 
Pellinore and the wife of Aries the 
cowherd. He was the first of the knights 
of the Round Table.—Sir T. Malory 
i, 24 (1470). 


Toralva (The licentiate), mounted 
on a cane, was conveved through the air 
with his eyes shut; in twelve hours he 
arrived at Rome, and the following morn- 
ing returned to Madrid. Dun his 
flight he opened his eyes once, and found 
himself so near the moon that he could 
have touched it with his finger.—Cer- 
vantes, Don Quixote, II. iii. 5 (1615). 
(See ‘TORRALBA.) 


Torch-Race. On the eve of the 
Panathenea, there was a torch-race in 
ancient Greece, in which the runners werw 
expected in succession to carry a lighted 
torch without allowing the flame to 
become extinyuished. it in 
! it. Plato (Leg. 
v1.) compares the transmission of life to 
a torch-race, and Lucretius has the same 
idea; ‘‘ Et quasi cursores vitai lampada 
trudunt”” ( Rerum Natura, ii. 77). 
Thomas Moore says the nations of Europe 
the love of liberty from Eng- 
land, as the runners in a torch-race handed 
the lighted brand from one to another. 
(See Lempriere, art. ‘‘ Prometheus.”) 

eked old games a runner snatched the torch 


I eaw the nt nations stand 
Tu catch the coming Game in turn, 
I mw, from ready hand to hand, 


The clear but struggling glory barn. 
T. Moure, The Torch of Liderty (use) 
Tordenskiol [ Jor’.den. stole] or the 
‘*'Thunder-Shield.” So Peder Wessel 
vice-admiral of Denmark (in the reign of 
Christian V.) was called. He was 
brought up as a tailor, and died in a 
duel. 
From Denmark thunders Tordenskiol ; 
rer iy to heaven commend his soul, 
Longfellow, King Christion [V.} 


Torfe (Mr. George), provost of Ork- 
ney.—Sir W. Scott, The Pirate (time, 
William IIJ.). 


Tormes (Lararillo de), by Di 
Ilurtado de Mendoza (sixteenth centary) ; 
a kind of Gil Blas, whose adventures and 
roguish tricks are the first of a very popular 


a PE 


Tormot, youngest son of ‘To uil 
the Oak (foxter-father of Eachin ve ‘Jar 
—Sir W. Scott, Fur Maid of Per 
(time, Henry IV.). 


Torne’a, a lake or rather a river | 
Sweden, which runs into the gulf . 
Kothnia. 

Bun Fponmen, The Seasons Winter,” 1726), 

Tor’neo, a town in Finland. Ofte 
visited by travellers, who can the 
witness the singular phenomenon of th 
sun remaining above the horizon both da 
and night at the summer svlstice. ] 
belongs now to Russia. 


Cold as the ruck: on Torneo’s hoary brow. 
Campbell, Pleasures af Ho;e, ti. (1799). 


We Gnd our author [4. F. Xtio’debrund| paring bi 
pourney northwards,. .. and his description of th 
eutrance intu Westrobothnia gives use high idea c 
the richness of the cuuntry In the felgh bourboud c 
Turneo.— Quarterly Acview, April, 181 

Torquato, that is, Torquato Tasso, th 
Italian poet, author of Jerusalem Delicerce 
(1544-1595), After the publication o! 
his great epic, Tasso lived in the court 
of Ferrara, and cunceived a vivlent passion 
for Leonora, one of the duke's sisters, but 
fled, in 1577, to Naples. 

Torquato’s tongue 
Was tuned fur Havish pscans at the throne 
Of tinal pamp. 
Akenside, Pieusures af imagination, il. (1744). 

Torquil of the Oak, foster-father 
of Eachin M'lan. He was chief of the 
clan Quhele, and had eight sons, the 
finest men in the clan. Torquil was a 





= me, 


TOTTENHAM IN BOOTS. 





1019 





TOUCHSTONE. 





Tottenham in Boots, a popular 
toast in Ireland in 1781. Mr. Tottenham 
gave the anger vote which threw out a 

iovernment bill very obnoxious to the 
Irish, on the subject of the Irish parlia- 
ment. Ile had come from the country, 
and rushed into the House, without 
changiny his boots, just in time to give 
his vote, which prevented the bill from 
passing by a majority of one. 


Totterly (Lord), an Adonis of 60, 
and a ci-derant Jeune Homme.—C. Selby, 
The Unyinished Gentleman, 


Tottipottymoy, a ‘‘Hoghan Mo- 
ghan," or mock mightiness, like the 
mayor of Garratt, or the king of the 
Cannibal Islands. 


The mighty Tottipottymoy 
Bent tw our elders an envoy, 


pratt surely of the 
8. Butler, Mudidras, ti. 3 (1084). 


Touch, finality, ‘Of noble touch,” 
of noble quality. The reference is to the 
touchstone by which gold is tried. Gold 
articles made according to the rules of 
alloy are called of ‘‘a true touch.” The 
“touch of Pans” is spoken of in 1800: 
‘* Laquelle touche passe tous les ors dont 
l'on muvre en tous pays.” In 1597 two 
poldumiihs were sentenced to the pillory 


or making false plate and counterfeiting | 


‘ her majesty’s touch.” 

The laps Lydius or touchstone is 
touched by the gold, and leaves a mark 
behind, the colour of which indicates its 
purity. 


Gold is trled by the touchstone and men by gold. | 
Bacon. 


Touchet Fooshay), When Charles 
IX. introduced Henri of Navarre to Marie 
Touchet, the witty Navarrese made this 
anagram on her name, Je charme tout. 


Touchfaucet (Cuptain), in Picro- 
chole's army, taken captive by friar John. 
Bein resented to (irangousier and 
asked ihe cause of his king's invasion, 
he replied, ‘‘ To avenge the injury done to 
the cake-bakers of Lern@é” (ch. 25, 26). 
Granyousier commanded his treasurer to 
give the friar 62,000 saluts (£15,500) in 
reward, and to Touchfaucet he gave ‘‘an 
excellent aword of a Vienne blade, with 
a gold scabbard, and a collar of gold 
weivhing 702,000 merks (576,000 ounces) 
garnished with precious stones, and valued 


Keturning to king Picrochole, he advised 
him to capitulate, whereupon Rashcalf 
efied aloud, ‘‘ Unhappy the prince who 


| child 





has traitors for his counsellors!” and 
Touchfaucet, drawing ‘‘his new sword,” 
ran him through the body. The ki 
demanded who gave him the sword, an 
being told the truth, ordered his guards 
**t> hew him in pieces."—Rabelais, Gar- 
gantua, i. 45-47 (1533). 


Touching for the King’s Evil 


| Jt is said that scrofulous diseases were at 


one time very prevalent in the island, 
and that Edward the Confessor, in answer 
to earnest prayer, was told it would be 
cured by the royal touch. Edward, being 
gifted with this miraculous power, trans- 
mitted it as an heir-loom to his succes- 
sors. Henry VII. presented each person 
touched with a small coin, called a touch- 
piece or touch-penny. 

Charles II. of England, during hie 
reign, touched as many as 92,107 persons; 
the smallest number (2983) being in the 
year 1669, and the largest number in 
1684, when many were trampled to death 
ieee Macaulay's istory of Enyland, xiv.). 

n these ‘‘touchings,” John Brown, a 
royal surgeon, superintended the cere- 
muny. (See Mucveth, act iv. sc. 8.) 

Prince Charles Edward, who claimed 
to be prince of Wales, touched a female 
or the disease in 1745. 

The French kings claimed the same 
divine power from Anne of Clovis, A.D. 
481. And on Easter Sunday, 1686, 
Louis XIV. touched 1600, using these 
words, Le roy te touche, Dicu te querisse. 

*,* Dr. Johnson was the last person 
touched. The touch-piece given to him 
has on one side this | d, Sulit Deo 
glursa, and on the other side, Anna. D: G. 
HM. BR. F: et H. REG. (‘‘ Anne, by the 
grace of God, of Great Britain, France, 
and Ireland, queen”). 


tumour by a king ¢ curéd be alone, 
Which he an anto the English throne. 
Drayton, Po/yelbton, xi. (1613), 


nan prince Cheri pawn over into France, after the 
failure the expedition in a ap Ret schon Bt 
es & so thas 


i 
E 


occade society they were t drink 
the king's Dut tt was tacitly understood that “ the 
cing wee Be but “the king over the 
water.” Tu express am , one was pamed 
over later down, the foot of one glass was 


| October, 1880 
at £16,000 sterling, by way of present.” | of New Fork, . 1380. 


Touchstone, a clown filled with 
‘quips and cranks and wanton wiles.” 
The original of this character was Tari- 


wwesnwae, Froriunese clowns’ parts he never had 
an veqtal, ani never will have.— Baker, Chronicies. 

Touchwood (Culunil), ‘the most 
passionate, impatient, unreasonable, food- 
natured man in Christendom.” Uncle of 
major and (Clarissa Touchwood. 

phia Tuuchwud, the colonel’s daugh- 
ter, in love with her cousin, major 
Touchwood. Her father wants her to 
marry colonel Clifford, but the colonel 
has fixed his heart on Clarissa, the major's 
sister. 
or Touchwood, nephew of colonel 
toncewood. and in love with his cousin 
Sophia, the cvloncl’s daughter. He 
fancied that colonel Clifford was his rival, 
but Clifford was in love with Clarissa, the 
major's sister. This error forms the plot 
of the farce, and the mistakes which 
arise when the major dresses up to pass 
himself off for his uncle constitute its 
fun and entanglement. 

Clarissa Tuuchwuod, the majors sister, 
in love with colonel Clitford. They first 
met at Briyhton, and the colonel thought 
her Christian name was Sophia; hence the 
major looked on him as a_ rival.—T. 
Dibdin, What Next ? 


(2 Touchweood (Lurd), uncle of Melle’font 
2 syl.). 
Ludy Touchwood, his wife, sister of sir 
Paul Pliant. She entertains a criminal 
ssion for her nephew Mellefont, and, 
ause he repels her advances, vows 
to ruin him. Accordingly, she tells her 
husband that the vouny man has souzht 
to dishonour her, and when hia lerdan:- 








TOWER OF HUNGER, 





fellow to be d a hore 
She ordered the fel rawn through | 


,and then to be well rubbed down with an 
L—The Adventure of My Aunt. 

Tower of Hunger (7he), Gualandi, 
the tower in which Ugolino with his two 
sons and two grandsons were starved to 
death in 1288.—Danté, Jnferno (1300). 


Tower of London (The) was really 
built by Gundulphus bishop of Rochester, 
in the reign of William I., but tradition 
ascribes it to Julius Cusar. 

Ye towers of Julius, London's lasting shame. 
Gray, The Bard (1787). 

Trower of Vathek, built with the 
intention of reaching heaven, that Vathek 
misht pry into the secrets seen by Ma- 
homet. The staircase contained 11,000 
stairs, and when the top was gained men 
looked no bigger than pismires, and 
cities seemed mere bee-hives.— Beckford, 
Vathek (1784). 


Townley Mysteries, certain re- 
ligious drumas ; so called because the MS. 
containing them belonged to P. Townley. 
‘These dramas are supposed to have been 
acted at Widkirk Abbey, in Yorkshire. 
In 1X31 they were printed for the Surtees 
Society, under the editorship of the Rev. 
Joseph Hunter and J. Stevenson. (See 
Coventry Mysteries.) 


Townly (Colunc!), attached to Berin- 
thia, a handsome young widow, but in 
order to win her he determines to excite 
her jealousy, and therefore pretends love 
to Aimanda, her cousin. Amanda, how- 
ever, repels his attentions with disdain ; 
and the colonel, seeing his folly, attaches 
himself to Berinthia.—Sheridan, A Trip 
ty Scurburuwjsh (1077). 


Torenly (Lord), a nobleman of generous 
mind and high principle, hberal and 
manly. Though very fond of his wife, 
he insists on a separation, because she is 
80 extravagant and = self-willed. Lady 
Townly sces, at length, the folly of her 
ways, and promises amendment, where- 
upon the husband relents, and receives 
her into faveur again, 

The London crities acknowledged that J. G. Holman’s 
“Jernl Tuownl) ~ wis the perfection of the nobleman of 
the days of Chestertield Hye was not the actor, but (be 
fignitial lon! hitavelf, — Donaldson, 

Lady Townly, the gay but not unfaith- 
ful voung wife of lord) Townly, who 
thinks that the pleasure of life consists 
in yambling ; she ‘‘carea nothing for her 
husband," but © loves almost everything 
he hates." She says: 


I dote upcu amemblies; my heart bounds at a ball ; 


and at an opera Desire. Then I love play to distraction ; 
cards enchant me; and dice put me out of my litle wits 


1021 


TRADELOVE. 


Trahbrugh and Cibber, The Provoked Hushend, i 2 


The part which at once established her [ ates Purren’s) 
fame as an actress was ‘lady Townly”... the whole 
house was enraptured. — Memoir of Elisabeth Countess of 
Derby (18%). 

(Mrs. Pritchard, Margaret Woffington, 
Miss Brunton, Miss M. Tree, and Miss 
FE. Tree were all excellent in this 
favourite part.) 


Tox (Miss Lucretia), the bosom friend 
of Mr. Dombey'’s married sister (Mrs. 
Chick). Miss Lucretia was a faded lady, 
‘fas if she had not been made in fast 
colours,” and was washed out. She 
‘ambled through life without any 
opinions, and never abandoned herself 
to unavailing regrets.” She greatly 
admired Mr. Dombey, and entertained a 
forlorn hope that she might be selected 
by him to supply the place of his de- 
ceased wife., Miss Tox lived in Princess's 
Place, and maintained a weak flirtation 
with a major Bagstock, who was very 
jealous of Mr. Dombey.—C. Dickens, 
Dombey and Sun (1846). 


Toszor, one of the ten 
men in the school of Dr. Blimber when 
Paul Dombey was there. A very solemn 
lad, whose ‘‘shirt-collar curled up the 
lobes of his ears.”"—C. Dickens, Dombey 
and Sun (1846). 


Trabb, a prosperous old bachelor, a 
tailor by trade. 


He was having his breakfast In the parlour behind the 
shop. . .. He had sliced his hot roll into three feather 
beds, and was slipping butter in between the blankets, . . 
He was a prosperuus old bachelor, and bis open window 
looked into a prosperous little garden and orchard, and 
there was a prosperous iron safe let into the wall at the 
wule of the fireplace, and without doubt heaps of his 
prosperity Were put away in i¢ in baga—C. Dickens, 
Greal Expectations, 11%. (1860). 

Tracy, one of the gentlemen in the 
earl of Sussex's train.—Sir W. Scott, 


Kenilworth (time, Elizabeth). 


Traddles, a simple, honest youn 
man, who believes in everybody and 
everything. Though constantly failing, 
he is never depressed by his want of suc- 
cess. He had the habit of brushing his 
hair up on end, which gave him a look 
of surprise. 


At the Creakle’s school, when I was miserable, be’ Trad 
dics} would lay his bead on the desk for a little whils, 
am! then. cheering up, would draw skeletons all over hig 
slate.—C. Dickens, David Co;perfeld, vil. (1849) 


Trade'love (Jfr.), a broker on 
"Change, one of the four guardians of 
Anne Lovely the heiress. He was “a 
fellow that would out-lie the devil for the 
advantage of stock, and cheat his own 
father in a bargain. He was a great 


oung gentle- 


Tragedy (Futher of Greck), Thespis 
the Kichardson of Athens. ‘Eschylos 
is also called ‘‘The Father of Greek 
Tragedy " (B.c. 525-426). 


Trajedy ( The Father of French), Garnier 
(1534-1590). 


Tragedy (The First English), Gorboduc, 
by Thomas Norton and Thomas Sack- 
ville (1569). The first comedy was HulpA 
Roister Duister, by Nicholas Udall (1564). 

Thornbury says the coadjutor of Norton 
was lord Buckhurst, and Charles Lamb 
maintains that lord Buckhurst “ supplied 
the more vital parts;" but professor Craik 
says Sackville was the worker together 
with Norton. 


Trained Band, the volunteer artil- 
Jery, whose gruund for practice was 
in Moortields. Jobn Gilpin was “ captain 
of the band.” 


A Tralned Band captain eke was he, 
Of famous Hon town, 
Cowper, John Gilpin (1782), 


Trajan ( The Secund), Marcus Aurelius 
Claudius, surnamed Got\icus, noted for 
his valour, justice, and govudness (215, 
268-270). 


Trajan and 8t. Gregory. It is 
said that Trajan, although unbaptized, | 
was delivered from hell in answer to 
the prayers of St. Gregory. 

There was storied un the rock 
The exalted glury of the Roman princes, 


Whose mighty worth moved Gregury to cara 
His mighty conquest—Traian the ernperor. 





TRANIO. 


1028 





TRAVELLERS’ TALES. 





Pra'nio, one of the servants of Lu- 
eentio the gentloman who marries Bi- 
anca (the sister of Kathari‘nn “‘the 


Paduan shrew ").—Shakespeare, Taming | 


of the Shrew (1594). 


Transfer, a usurer, who is willing to 
advance sir George Wealthy a sum of 
money on these easy terms: (1) 5 per 


cent. interest; (2) 10 per cent. premium ; 
(J) 5 per cent, for insuring the young 
man's life; (4) a handsome present to 


himself as broker; (5) the borrower to 
pay all expenses ; ‘and (G) the loan not 
to be in cash but goods, which are to be 
taken at a valuation and sold at auction 
at the borrower's sole bazard. These 
terms are accepted, and sir George pro- 
mises besides a handsome dowceewr to 
Loader for having found o usurer 80 


promptly.—Foote, The Minor (1760). 


Transformations. In the art of 
transformation, one of the most important 
things was a ready wit to adopt in an 
instant some form which would give you 
an advantage over vour adversary ; thus, 
if your adversary ‘appeared AS & Mouse, 
you must chanve into an owl, then your 
wiveraary would become an arrow to 
shoot the owl, and you would assume the 
form of fire to burn the arrow, where- 
upon your adversary would become water 
ti queoch the tire; and be who could ont- 
wit the other would come off victorious. 
The two best examples 1 know of this 
purt of contest are to be found, one in 
the Archon Nits, and the other in the 
Mains pion. 

The former ia the contest between the 
Queen of [Beauty and the son of the dangh- 
terof Fulis. He appeared as a sco 2 eo 
she ina mament became a serpent ; Ww 
upon he changed into an eagle, she mito 
a nore poweren black eagle; he became 

a cat, she a wolf: she instantly changed 
into a worm and crept into o pomegranite, 
which in time burst, whereupon he as- 
suined the form of a cock to derour the 
seed, but it became a fiah; the cock then 
became a pike, but the princess became o 
blazing fire, and consomed her adversary 
befure he had time to change.—"' The 
Sevond Calender.” 

The other is the contest between Carid- 
wen and Gwien Wach. Bach fled as a 
bare, she change! into ao Pat homers 5 
whereupon he became a fish, she an otter- 


bitch ; he instantly became # bird, she 
a bawk; Lut he became aa uiek as 
thought a grain of wheat. ndwen 


now became a ben, and made for the 








wheat-corn and devoured him. — “Ta 
liesin.” 

Translator - General. Philemon 
Holland is so called by Foller, in his 

forthws of Enjland. Mr. Holland 
translated Livy, Pliny, Plotarch, Sue- 
tonius, Xenophon, and several other 
classic authors (1551-1636). 


Trap to Catch a Sunbeam, by 
Matilde Aone Planché (afterwards Mrs, 
Mackarness), 


Trapbois (O/d), — miser in Alsatia, 
Even in his extreme age, “‘be was be- 
lieved to understand the plucking of 6 
pigeon better than any man in Alsatia.” 

Martha Trapbois, the miser's danghter, 
a cold, decisive, masculine woman, who 
marries Kichie Moniplies, —Sir W. Scott, 
The Fortunes of Nujei (time, James I.). 


TERR POR (ARES T ruled over 
Mls Alifanfaron. It is in the Utopian 

oP WN, lat., ee W. long. 
Pavanian Don Quirote, I . iii. 4 (1605). 


Trapper (Tie). Natty Bumppo is so 
called Per he Prairie. He i is aed 
in four other of Cooper's novela as ‘‘ The 
Deerslayer,” ‘‘The Pathfinder,” “Th 
Hawk-ere" in The Last of the Mohicane 
and “‘ Natty Homppo” in The Pioneers, 


Traveller (7ic). The scheme of 
this poem is very simple: The poet su 
poses himself seated among Alpine soli- 
tudes, looking down upon a hundred 
kingdoms. He would fain find some spot 
where ma Denese can be attained, but the 
natives of cach realm think their own the 
best; yet the amount of happiness in 
each is pretty well equal, To illustrate 
this, the poet describes the manners and 
yovernment of Italy, Switzerland, France, 
Holland, and England,—O, Goldsmith 
(1764). 


Traveller (Mr.), the stranger who sried 
to reason with Mr, Mopes and bri 
him back to society, but found the truth 
of the tinker's remark, ‘When iron is 
thoroughly rotten, you cannot botch it.” 
—C, setae A -ebniper gocaped tine 


Travelle the valley 


5 Refuge, 
| Fakreddin. we Heckford, Vathek (nTa4). 


Travellers’ Tales, Marco Polo 
gays, ‘* Certain islands lie so far north im 
the Northern Ocean, that one going thither 
actually leaves the pole-star a trifle 
behind to the south." 

A Dutch ekipper told Master Moxon, 
the hydrographer of Charles II., that be 





TRAVELS, ETC. 


had himself sailed two 
ge race 
aundeville gays, in Prester John's 


country is a gea of sand which ebbs and © 
flows in creat waves without one drop of 


water. This sea, cays the knight af 
Alban's, men find full of right good fish 
of most delicious eating. 


At the time of the discovery of America 


by Columbus, many marvellous tales were — 


rife in Spain. It was said that in one 
part of the coast of El Nombre de Dios, 
the natives had such long ears that one ear 
served for bed and the other for counter- 
pane. This reminds one of Gwevyl mab 


rwestad, one of whoge lips sor. down to | 


his waist, and the other covered his head 
hike a cowl (see p. 1000). Another tale 
was that one of the crew of Colambus 
had come across a people who lived on 
eweet scents alone, and were killed by 
foul smells. ‘This invention was hardly 
original, inasmuch as both Plutarch and 
Pliny tell us of an Indian people who 
lived on eweet odours, and Democritos 
lived for several days on the mere effluvia 
of hot bread (see p. 698), Another tale 
was that the noses of these smell-feeders 
were so hove that their heads were all 
nose. We are also told of one-eyed men; 
of men who carned their head under one 
of their arma; of others whose head waa 
in their breast; of others who were con- 





1024 
is su 











— 


a. ; — 
ats 2 4 
a mS m™ je ~ & 
“| \ J 1 4) 


sarlinimant. 2 cain 
‘ Pa Te aya “, = 


hiditne a? fosk. : 
“Vi yl ot t — 7 4 r 
= | =. tege* See > = 
tion.” By his i 

Oe ee 
| att 


cwnhl 
“7 
Le J ] 
ie 


ee | = 
r ' Por. «3 










ee 





460 ‘Eidiot ext a 
jloucester after killing sever 
(oops eay of the Saxoms— Weel 











TREE. 


Tree (The Largest). The largest tree 
in the world te one discovered, in 1874, to 
a grove near Tule Hiver, in California, 
Though the top has been broken off, it is 
240 feet high, and the diameter of the 
tree where it has been broken is 12 feet. 
This giant of the forest is called ‘ Old 
Moses,” from a mountain in the neigh- 
bourhooml, and is calculated to be 4540 
years old! The hollow of its trunk, 
which is Lil feet, will hold 150 persona, 
and is hung with scenes of California, is 
carpeted, and fitted up like a drawing- 
room, with table, chairs, sofa, and piano- 
fiurte, A section of this tree, 74 feet 
round and 24 feet acrosa, waa exhibited 
in New York, in L879, —See New York 
Herald. 


Tree (The Poets’), a tree which growa 
over the tomb of Tan-Sein, a musician at 
the court of [Mohammed] Akbar, Who- 
ever chews a leaf of this tree will be 
inspired with a divine melody of voice,— 
W. Hunter, 

His 'oire wae as roreet oo if he had chewed the leaves of 
that enchanted tree which grow corer the tomb of ihe 
fimician Tan-Beln.—Moore, Loa Rooks | 1AI7) 

Tree (Jie Sinjinys), a tree each leaf of 
which was musical, and all the leaves 
joined together in ‘delightful harmony. 

—Arubian Nijits ("The Story of the 
Sisters who envied their Younger Sister"’). 

In the Fitiry Tides of the comtesse 
D'Aunoy, there is a tree called “the 
Binging apple,” of precisely the same 
character, but the apple tree gave the 
possessor the inspiration: of poetry also. 

—"*Chery and Fairstar.” 


Tree of Liberty (7%e), a tree or 
pole crowned with a Sap of liberty, and 
decorated with tlags, nlbons, and other 
devices of a republican character. The 
idea was piven by the Americans in their 
War of Independence ; it was adopted by 
the Jacolins In Paris in 1790, and by the 
Italians in 1848, 


Tree of Life (7ie), a tree in the 
“'midat of the arden ™ of paradise, which, 
if Adum had plucked and eaten of, he 
would have “lived for ever."—Gen, u. 9; 
ii. 22. 

Thal ul the fertile ground [deal | cammend ie gro 
AD trees uf nidibest Kend for 1, manele | 
Avd al! anid them stoud the Tree of Lis, 
igh eminent, likening eumberoeiel Bratt 
fi reggae dee grade 
Miun, Maradioe Loaf, iv, S18, ete, (1002), 


Treo of Knowledge (The), a tree 


‘n the garden of ices the fruit of | 


wlich Adam and Eve were forbidden to 
cat, lest they died."—Gen, ti, 95 iii, J. 


1025 





TREES, ETC. 


Next Pi ral agen by aoe 
the Trea of Knowleign crew inet by, 
Knowieige of good. bought dar by knowing [L 
Milton, Purudise Lost, iv. Sil (1605), 


Trees noted for Specific Virtues 
and Uses, 

Those ariicles marke! A. PF. are from William Browne's 
Sritasnia’s Pastoral (LOLS). 

ALDER, good for water-pipes and rae 
capital for the foundations of buildings 
oge; it becomes black as 





situated upon b 
jet and almost imperishable when used 
for piles in swamps or under water. ‘The 
Rialto of Venice is founded on alder. It 
isexcellent for clogs, shoe-heels, wooden 
shoes, co for mill-wheels, turnery, 
chairs, poles, and garden props. 

It is anid that fleas dislike it. 

Alder nourishes whatever plant grows 
in ite shadow.—J'. P. 

Asit, the Venus of the forest.—Gilpin, 
Forest Scenery (1791). 

Used for all toola employed in hus 
bandry, carts, wayyons, wheels, polleys, 
and oars. It bursts into leaf betweem 
May 18 and June 14. 

Grass will grow beneath it. 

At Donirey, near Clare, ia the hollow 
trunk of an ash tree 42 feet in circum- 
ference, in which 4 little school nsed to 
be kept.—A. Young, Jrish Tuur (1775-6). 

In Woburn Park is an ash tree 90 feet 
bigh, 15 feet in girth (3 feet from the 
Rrount), and containing a grand total of 
S72 cubic feet of timber.—Strutt, Sylva 
Hritannica, 

The ash tree at Carnock, planted in 
1596, snjiposed to be the largest in Scot- 
land, is 90 feet high ond 19 feet in girth 
(5 feet from the ground),—Ditto, 

Dr, Walker says he measured an ash 


| tree in Lochaber churchyard, Scotland, 


68 feet in girth (5 feet from the ground). 

Asres Tkke. Nograss will grow inite 
vicinity. The lecend is that the cross of 
Jesus was made of this wood, and hence 


| its leaves were doomed to tremble till 


the day of doom. 
Ah! tremble, tremble, aspen tree | 
We gee! not ak thes wip iow slakewty 
For if, ms |i a be meg mult, 
On they the Fariour bled to daxth, 
Bo wonder, aspen. that thon quukest | 
And, U0) jo Judgment all meus! 
Thy leans scoorecd abel) weil ond tremble, 

EC un. 
 Beecn Tree, employed for clogs, tool 
handles, planes, mallets, turnery, lance 
woolen screws, sounding-boards of 
musical instruments, scabbards, band-~ 
boxes, book-covera, ‘coffins, chaira, and 
berlateads ; but for chairs and bedsteails 
it ia not fit, as it ia a favourite resort of 
the plinus pectineorms, whose eggs are 

8u 





TREES, ETC. 


Ev is used for axle-trees, mill-wheels, 
keels of boats, gunwales, chairs, coffins, 
rails, gates, under-ground pipes, pumps, 
millwork, pattens. 

Grass will grow beneath its shade. 

The elm is pre-eminent for the tenaci 
of its wood, which never splinters. It is 
the first of forest trees to burst into leaf. 

Toads and frogs are often embedded in 
elm trees. They crept into some hollow 
place or crack, and became imprisoned b 
the glutinous fluid of the new inner bar 
Meats and alburnun). 

ound alive when the tree is cut down, 
al they nced not have been embedded 
ong. 

At Hampstead there was once a famous 
hollow elm, which had a staircase within 
and seats at the top.—Park, Zupoyraphy. 

At Blythtield, in Staffordshire, was an 
elm which, Ray tells us, furnished 8660 
fect of planks, weighing 97 tons. 

The elm at Chequers, Buckinghamshire, 
was planted in the reign of Stephen; the 
shell is now 31 feet in girth. The Chep- 
stead Elm, Kent, contains 268 feet of 
timber, and is 15 feet in girth; it is said 
to have had an annual fair beneath its 
shade in the reign of Henry V. The elm 
at Crawley, in Sussex, is 70 feet high and 
85 feet in girth.—Strutt, Sylea Bri- 
tannica, 

Fia Tres. The leaves of this tree have 
the property of maturing game and meat 
hung amongst them. 

Fin Trex. In Ireland the bog firs, 
beaten into string, are manufactu into 
rope, capable of resisting the weather 
much longer than hempen ropes. The 
bark can be used fortan. Tar and pitch 
are obtained from the trunk and branches. 
The thinnings of fir forests will do for 
hop-poles, scantlings, and rafters, and its 
timber is used by builders. 

G;rass will not grow beneath fir trees. 

GUELDER Roar. From the bark of the 
root birdlime is made. The shoots make 
excellent bands for faggots. 

Evelvn says a decoction of the leaves 
will dye the hair black and strengthen it. 

Haze Trex. The wood makes ex- 
cellent charcoal] for forges. Fishing-rods, 
walking-sticks, crates, hoops for barrels, 
shoots for springles to fasten down thatch, 
hurdles, etc., are made of this wood. 
Hazel chips will clear turbid wine in 
twenty-four hours, and twigs of hazel 
twisted toyether will serve for yeast in 
brewing. 


Hazel wands were used in divination; | 


fur detecting minerals, water-springs, an 


1027 
| hid treasures. (See Dousrerswivet, 


Some have been | 





TREES, ETC. 


p. 270.) 
By whatsoever occult virtue the forked hasel stick &p 
m= treasure, but 


and credible pereuns who have critically examined mattere 
of ly next to a and requires a 
trong faith.—Evelyn, &y’va (1664). 

The small hole bored through the shell 
of hazel nuts is not the work of squirrels, 
but of field mice; squirrels always split 


Ho..y Tree. Birdlime is made from 
it. The wood is used for veneering, 
handles of knives, cogs for mill-wheels, 
hones for whetting knives and razon, 
coachmen's whips, Tunbridge ware. 

Ivy. The roots are by leather- 
cutters for whetting their knives; and 
when the roots are large, boxes and slabs 
are made from them, 

It is said that apricots and 
protected in winter by ivy fencing me 
remarkably productive. 

JUNIPER is never attacked by worms, 

The wood is used for veneering ; and 
alcohol or spirits of wine, impregnated 
with the essential oil of juniper berries, is 
gin (or juniper water); for the French 
geneore means ‘‘a juniper berry.” Ordi- 
narily, gin is a malt liquor, distilled a 
second time, with the addition of juniper 
berries, or more frequently, with the oil 
of turpentine. 

LARCH, very apt to warp, but it resists 
decay. It bursts into leaf between March 
21 and April 14. 

Le boils du mélaes femporte en bonté et on durée suz 
celui des pins et des mpina. On en falt des gootticres des 
conduits d’eaux souterraines. de bonnes charpentes; il 
entre dans la coustruction des petits batiments de mer. 
Les peintres s'en servent pour faire les cadres de leurs 
tableaux.— Bouillet, Dict. Unis. des 

Lime or Linpex Treg. Grinli 
Gibbons, the great carver in wood, 
no other wood but that of the lime tree, 
which is soft, light, smooth, cl ined, 
and not subject to the worm. or the 
game reason, it is the chief material of 
Tunbridge ware. Bellonius states that 
the Greeks used the wood for making 
hottles. 

Lime wood makes excellent charcoal for 
gunpowder, and is employed for buttons 
and leather-cutters’ boards. The flowers 
afford the best honey for bees, and the 
famous Kowno honey is made exclusively 
from the linden blossoms. 

It was one of the trees from which 

pfrus was made, and in the library of 
Vienna is a work of Cicero written on 
the inner bark of the linder.. 


| the shells. 





TREES, ETC. 
Oak, which stood on the spot where the 


“patrivt hero” was bom (Elderslie, | 
near Paisley) was probably 700 years old | 


when it was blown down in 1859. Salcey 
Forest Onk, in Northamptonshire, is 
above 1000 vears old. William the (on- 
queror's Oak, Windsor Great Park, is at 
least 1200 years old. Winfarthing Oak, 
Norfolk, and Bentley Oak, were 700 

ears old at the Conquest, more than 
80) years ago. Cowthorpe Onk, near 
Wetherby, is 1600 years old (professor 
Burnet). The great oak of Saintes, in 
the Charente Infrricur, is reckoned from 
100 to 2000 years old. The Damorey Oak, 
Dorsetshire, was 2000 years old when it 
was blown down in 1703. In the Com- 
monwealth, it was inhabited by an old 
man, and used as an ale-house; ite cavity 
was 15 feet in diameter and 17 feet in 
height. 

In the Water Walk of Magialen Col- 
lece, Oxford, was an oak supposed to 
have existed before the Conquest; it was 
a notable tree when the college was 
founded in 1448, and was blown aun in 
ao, On Alibot's Oak, Woburn, che 
vicar of Puddington, near Chester, and 
Rover Hobbs abbot of Woburn were 
hung, in 1537, by order of Henry 
VIIL., for refusing to surrender their 
sacerdetal rights (Marsham). The Bull 
Ook, Wedgenock Park, and the Plestor 
Onk, Colborne, were both in existence 
at the Conquest. The Shellard’s Lane 
Oak, Gloucestershire, is one of the 
oldest in the island (Journal of a 
Nutteralist, i.). 

The Codenham Onk, near Lyndhurst, 
in the New Forcst, buda ‘* on old Christ- 
mas Day," and has done so for at least 
two centuries; it ia covered with foliage 
at the usual time of other oak trees. The 
same is enid of the tree against which the 
arrow of Tyrrel planced when Rufus was 
killed (Camden), 

WLtVeE, used in wainsent, because it 
Dever papes, cracks, or cleaves.—A. J’. 

The eight olive treea on the Mount of 
Olives were flourishing 800 vears ago, 
when the Turks took Jerusalem, 

Osirn, used for puncheons, wheels 
for catching eela, bird-cages, baskets, 
hanipera, hurdles, eddera, stakes, rake- 
handles, and poles, 

ean Ther, used for turnery, joiners’ 
tools, chairs, and! picture-frames, 

It ia worth knowing that pear grafts 
O% a quince stwk produce the moat 
abundant and Juscious fruit. 

Pive Tees. The “ Old Guardsman,” 





in Vancouver's Island, is the largest 
Dougas pine. It is 16 feet in diameter, 
51 feet in girth, and 150 feet in height, 
At one time it was 50 feet higher, but its 
top was broken off in a storm. 

Be ES Oe raat ETD, planches, en hipaa 
Pour la 


naalolie ds eum, on bonlages pour les pots dew 
vilewsnx, [1 foormit sus lo résine —Kouillet, Dict, 


wis, dew 

Pave Tree. Grass delights to grow 
in its shade.— Ji, FP. ie wi 

Portar Ter, sacred to Herculis. 
No wood is so little liable to take fire. 
The wood is excellent for wood carvings 
and wainscoting, floors, laths, packing- 
boxes, and tumery. 

Black Poplar, The bark is used by 
fishermen for buoying their nets; brooms 
are made of its twigs. In Flanders, 
clogs are made of the wood. 

The poplar bursta into leaf between 
March 6 and April 19, 

Rost Tree. The rose ia called the 
“queen of flowers.” It is the emblem of 
England, as the thistle is of Seotiand, the 
shamrock wf Ireland, and the lily of 
France, 

It bas ever been a favourite on graves 
as a memorial of affection; hence Pro- 
pertius says, “‘Et tenera ponerct ossa 
rosa.’ In Rome, the day when the pope 
blesses the golden ruse is called Dominica 
in Husa, The long intestine strife be- 
tween the rival houses of York and 
Lancaster is called in history the '' War 
of the White and Red Roses,” becanse 
the badge of the Yorkists was a white 
rose and that of the Lancastrians a red 
one. The marriage of Henry VII. with 
Elizabeth of York ts called the “‘ Union 
of the Two Roses.” 

The rose was ancienily considered a 
token of secrecy, and hence, to whisper 
a thing swh rosa means it is not to be 
repeated. . 

In Persian fable, the rose is the night- 
ingale’s bride. ‘His queen, his garden 
queen, the ruse.” 

SaLLow, excellent for hurdles, handles 


| of hatchets, and shoemakers' boarda, 


The honey of the catkins is pond for bees, 
and the Highlanders use the bark for 
tanning leather, 

Sraccee Tree (The) will reach to the 
age of 1000 years and more, Spruce is 
despised by English carpenters, “aa a 
sorry sort of wood.” 

fl fournli ina bite dite stpinefcs, on Anglais #oruce 


beer, go'en prétemd dtre Aminement entl-eorbutiqua.— 
Boulliet, Dict. Onin, det Folencea 


Srcamore Tree, used by turmers fos 


a oames, Suet 


LAMARISK LREE dues not disiike the 
sea-apray, and therefore thrives in the 
neighbourhood of the sea. 

e Romans used to wreathe the heads 
of criminals with tamarisk withes. The 
Tartars and Russians make whip-bandles 
of the wood. 

The tamarisk is excellent for besoms. 

Upas TRrER, said to poison everything 
in its vicinity. This is only tit fur poetry 
and romance. 

WALNUT, best wood for gunstocks ; 
cabinet-makers use it largely. 

This tree thrives best in valleys, and is 
most fertile when must beaten.—JS. P. 


A woman, & spaniel, and walnut tree, 
The wore you beat them. the better they he. 
Taylor, the °° water-puet ” (1630). 


Uneasy seated by funercal Yough, 
rth Walnut, wpe’ malignant touch lm pairs 
— Philips, Cyder, £. (1706). 

WHITETHORN, used for axle-trees, the 
handles of tools, ‘and turnery. 

The identical whitethorn planted by 
queen Mary of Scotland in the garden- 
court of the regent Murray, is still alive, 
and is about 5 feet in yirth near the base. 
—Jones, Edinburyh Iiustrated. 

The Troglodytes adorned the graves of 
their parents with branches of whitethorn. 
It formed the nuptial chaplet of Athenian 
brides, and the fasces nuptiarum of the 
Roman maidens. 


very shepbent tells his tale 
nie tie hawthorn in the dala 


Milton, L’4Uegre (1638). 
WILLow, used for clogs, ladders, 








TREES, ETC. 


the founders of the abbey held council 
there in the reign of William Rafas. The 
yew tree of Braburm, in Kent (accordi 
to De Candolle), is 3000 years old!! It 
may be so, if it is true that the yew trees 
of Kingley Bottom, near Chichester, were 
standing when the sea-kings landed on 
the Sussex coast, and those in Norbury 
Park are the very same which were 
standing in the time of the ancient 
druids, 

Grass will grow beneath alder, ash, 
cypress, elm, plane, and sycamore; but 
not beneath aspen, beech, chestaut, and 

r. 

Sea spray does not injure sycamore or 
tamarisk. 

Chestnut and olive never warp; larch 
is most apt to warp. 

For posts the best woods are yew, oak, 
and larch; one of the worst is chestnut. 
For picture-frames, maple, pear, oak, and 
cherry are excellent. 

Fleas dislike alder, cedar, myrtle, and 

ew ; hares and rabbits never injure lime 

rk; moths and spiders avoid cedar; 
worms never attack juniper. Beech and 
ash are very subject to attacks of insects. 
Beech is the favourite of dormice, acacia 
of nightingales. 

For binding faggots, the best woods 
are guelder rose, hazel, osier, willow, and 
mountain ash. 

Knives and all sorts of instruments 
may be sharpened on ivy roots, willow, 
and holly wood, as well as on a hone. 

Kirdlime is made from holly and the 
guelder rose. 

Baskets are made of osier, willow, and 
other wicker and withy shoots; besoms, 
of birch, tamarisk, heath, etc. ; hurdles, 
of hazel; dburrels and tubs, of chestnut 
and oak ; fishinj-rods, of ash, hazel, and 
blackthormm ; gunstocks, of maple and 
walnut ; skewers, of elder and skewer 
wood; the teeth of rakes, of blackthom, 

and the twigs called withy. 

e best woods for furnery are box, 
alder, beech, sycamore, and pear; for Jun- 
brudje ware, lime ; for curving, box, 
lime, and poplar; for clojs, willow, alder, 
and beech ; for oars, ash. 

Beech is called the cabinet-makers’ wood ; 
oak and elm, the ship-builders’; ash, the 
ehe Lorpayhts’. 

There are several beautiful lists of trees 
iven by poeta. For example, in Tasso, 
erusaicm Delivered, iii., at the end, where 

tren are sent te cut down trees for the 
funeral pile of Dudon. In Statius, The 
Th. bad, vi., where the felling of trees for 


1081 





TRENT. 


the pile of the infant Archemorus is de 
scribed. In Spenser, Faéry Qucen, I. i 
8, 9, where the Cross Knight and the 
lady seek shelter during a storm, and 
much admire the forest trees. 


Trees of the Sun and Moon, 
oracular trees growing ‘at the extremity 
of India,” mentioned in the Italian m- 
mance of Guerino Meschinot. 


Tregeagle the giant of Dosem 
Pool, on fmin 


wns (Cornwall). 
When the wintry winds blare over the 
downs, it is said to the giant 
howling. 


Trelawny Ballad (The) is by the 
Rev. R. 8. Hawker of Morwenstow.— 
Notes and Queries, 441 (June, 1876). 


Tremor (Sir Luke), a desperate 
coward, living in India, who made it a 
rule never to fight either in his own house, 
his neighbour’s house, or in the street. 
This lily-livered desperado is everlastingly 
enubbing his wife. (See TrRIPPET, p. 
1034.) 

Lady Tremor, daughter of a grocer, ana 
grandchild of a wig-maker. Very sensi- 
tive on the subject of her plebeian birth, 
and wanting to be thought a lady of high 
family.—Mrs. Inchbald, Such Things 
(1786). 


Tremydd ap Tremhidydd, the 
man with the keenest sight of all mortals. 
He could discern “ a mote in the sunbeam 
in any of the four quarters of the world.” 
Clustfein ap Clustfeinydd was no less cele- 
brated for his acuteness of hearing, “‘his 
ear being distressed by the movement of 
dew in June over a blade of grass." The 
meaning of these names is, ‘‘Sight the son 
of Seer,” and ‘‘ Far the son of Hearer.”— 
The Mabinayjion (‘* Notes to Geraint,” ete., 
twelfth century). 


Trenmor, great-grandfather of Fin- 
gal, and king. of Morven (north-west of 
tland). is wife was Inibaca, daugh- 
ter of the king of Lochlin or Denmark.— 
Ossian, Finyal, vi. 
In Zemora, ii., he is called the frst 
king of Ireland, and father of Co 


nar. 
Trent, says Drayton, is the third 
in size of the rivers of England, the twe 
larger being the Thames and the Severn, 
Arden being asked which of her rills she 
intended to be the chief, the wizard 
answered, the Trent, for trent means 
“thirty,” and thirty rivers should com- 
tribute to its stream, thirty different sorts 








TRIFALDI. 


1033 





TRIP TO SCARBOROUGH. 





to break the spell, but had first to over- | 


eome four temptations, viz., fear, avarice, 
pleasure, and ambition. Having come 
off mone than conqueror, Gvneth awoke, 
and became his bride. 


Trifal'di (The countess), called “ The 
Afflicted Tuenna” of the princess Anto- 
neomasia (heireesto the throneuf Candayva). 
She was called Trifaldi from her robe, 
which was divided into three triangles, 
eivh of which was supported by a page. 
The face of this duenna was, by the 
enchantment of the ciant Malambru’no, 
covered with a large, rough beard, but 
when don Quixote mounted Clavil(@o 
the Winged, ‘‘the enchantment was 
dissolved.” 


The frusword knight don Qaltote dels Mancha heath 
Schirvel Lhe adieulure oerely by attempting it, Mladen 
brian le appeal, and the chin of the Deckers due fin be 
egalo bearllest.—Uervanies, fave Gedeoga, (1, lil, d (D005), 


Trifal’din of the *‘* Bushy 
(white as snow), the gigantic ‘squire of 
“The Afflicted Duenna" the countess 
Trifaldi.—Cervantes, Dun Quicote, IL. iid. 
4 (101%). 


Trifle (Miss Penelope), an old maiden 
sister of sir Penurious Tote. Stiff as a 
ranirod, print as fine airs and graces 
could make her, fond of long words, and 
delighting in phrases modelled in true 
Johnsonian ponderosity. 

Trifle (Miss Subey), daughter of sir 
Penurious, tricked into marriage with 
Mr. Harton, a young spendthrift, who fell 
in love with her fortune. 

*." Sir Penurious Trifle is not intro- 
dtc rd, but Hartop assumes his character, 
and makes him fond of telling stale and 
jointless stories, Ile addresses sir Gre- 
gory as “you knight."—Foote, The 
Anujhts (1754), 


Trim (Corporal), uncle Toby's 
orderly. Faithful, simple-minded, and 
miiet affectionate. Voluble in speech, 
hut most respectful. Half companion, 
but never forprecting he is his master's 
servant. 
Toby in delf. The latter at all times 
shows himaclf the officer and the gentle- 
tion, Loro to command and used to 
obedience, while the former always 
carries traces of the drill-vard, and showa 
shat he has been accustomed to reccive 
orders with deference, and to execute 
them with military precision, It is a 
great conplinent to say that the corporal 
was Worthy such a noble master,—Steme, 
yi ifeand Upinions of Tristram Shandy 
(1759). 





Beard” | 


Trim is the duplicate of uncle | 


Trim, Inetem!l of beln the appraita, ts. « the dopll. 
role of onele Toby . 5 iw ow i Chee character of the 
FOr eolljer niesly iecriminitcd from that of tie 
officer. His whole carriage bears traces of the drill. 
which are wintlig in the aaperion, Under the mime 
& errant. be ie ly reality 6 omnjpenlon, ond aw delighthal 
mixture of familiarity .. . minal 5 ~os Ith enongh 
to my that Trim was worthy to walk bedsind his master,— 
Ewin, od. of the Yourter/y feriew | 1550-0), 


Trimalchi, a celebrated cook in the 
reign of Nero, mentioned by Petronius. 
Ile had the art of giving to the most 
common fish the favour and appenrance 
of the most highly esteemed, Jake Ud 
he said that “‘saucea are the soul of 
cookery, and cookery the soul of festivity,” 
or, a8 the cat's-meat man oleerved, ‘* "tus 
the seasonin as does it.” 


Trinacria. Sicily is so called from 
its three promontories (Greek, fria akra) : 
(1) J’elo'rus (Capo di Faro), in the no 
as Furo from the pharos ; (2) Pachy'- 

iS di Passaro), in the south ; (3) 
Lil you’ usm (Capo di Marsella or Capo di 
Boco), in the west. 


Cur ehil 
Baal tet bet ind Trincris's burning lala, 
And vldlted the marglu of tie Nile 
Falooner, The Shlpiereck, 1. (178E) 
Trin'culo, o jester. — Shakespeare, 
The Tempest (1609), 
A miscorrisge... Woeuk) (like the low of Trincolo’s 


bette io the borse- pond) be attended mot sitied with. 
dbhunour bul with infinite loa—Sir W, 


Trin’ket (Zord), a man of fashion 
and a libertine. 

Hae ts ag rome Lacey athe lle tc he vg Dg 
Ts teer with A greni ml bored ; 
hain ane emenigh to make hiss nacemively rain ache 
person ; tel bind Jot reflection ny hed tio files tela ho 
a cuncoush ; spied theca kes Th re 
men of quallty.—G. Colman, The Fades wis, Lo 
(i781). 

Tri’nobants, people of Trinoban'- 
tium, that is, Middlesex and Essex, 
Their chief town was Tri'novant, now 
London. 

Bo outward where by Thames the Trinolants were set, 
To Trinovant thelr town... Thal Lomion pow we 
jferm .. « 
The Gasons, . , Qeelr ot kingiom called [ Pee] 
Drayton, Pelpolbien, tvi. (M6L3). 

Tri'novant, London, the chief town 
of the Trinobantes; called in fable, 
“Troja Nova." (See Trorxovayt,) 


Trinquet, one of the seven attendants 
of Fortonio. Ilias gift was that he could 
drink a river and be thirsty again. “ Are 
you always thirsty?” asked Fortunio. 
* No," soil the man, *' only after eating 
salt meat, or upon a wager."—Comtesse 
D’Aunvy, fuiry Tiles ('* Fortunio,” 
1682). 


Trip to Scarborough (4), a 





—_—esEew + 


TRISTRAM'S BOOK. 





1035 





TRIUMVIRATE, 





of king Mark, and this unhappy attach- 
ment was the cause of nomberless 
truubles, and ultimately of his death, 
La lielle lsond, however, was quite as 
culpable as the knight, for she herself 
told him, “* Mv measure of hate for Mark 
ia a5 the measure of my love for thee ;" 
and when she found that her husband 
would not allow sir Tristram to remain 
at ‘Vintag’il Castle, she eloped with hit, 
aml lived three years at Joyous Cruard, 
near Carlisle. At length she returned 
home, and sir Tristram followed her. 
Liis death is variously related. Thus the 
Histury uf Prince Arthur says: 

Wien by means of a tresty air Tristram brough? again 
La eale leomd unin king Mark from Joyous Gord, thee 
faler trailor king Mark dew (he uolle inight oe be mat 
harping before tis lady, La Beale Isond, with a sharp 
grudimel glaive, whirh he thro initio him from bebinal 

ba teu —J't, WL da (L450). 

Tennyson gives the tale thus: Fle says 
that sir Tristram, dallying with his aunt, 
hung a ruby careanet round her throat; 
and, as he kissed her neck : 
hE ol Ot eur, Jed cs ee pe Dall cde, 

Behlind bien rue a shaker gil a chrick— 
Mark's way!” ak) Mark, al clore him theo’ the brain. 
Tennyson, /ipite (* The Last Tourmament ™). 

Another tale is this: Sir Tristram was 
severely wounded in Prittany, and sent 
a dving request to lis aunt to come and 
vee him. lf she consented, a white flag 
trans ty be hoisted on the mast-bead of her 
slip; if not, a black one. His wife told 
him the ship was in sight, displaying a 
black flag, at which words the strong 
man bowed his head and died. When 
his sunt came ashore and heard of his 
death, she tlung herself on the body, 
and died aleo. The two were buried in 
one grave, and Mark planted over it a 
rose and a vine, which became so inter- 
woven it was not possible to separate 
them. 

*,* Sir Lanunecelot, sir Tristram, and 
sit Lamorake were the three bravest and 
best of the 150 knights of the Round 
Talile, but were all equally guilty m 
their amewra: Sir Launcelot with the 


queen; gir Trietram with his aunt, king | 


Mark's wife: and sir Lamorake with his 
aunt, king Lot's wife, 


Tristram's Book (Sir). Any book 
of venery, liunting, or hawking is 60 
called. 

Tharm beeen pd meanires of blowing poe! blasts 

yrilen., ated vf oli, ind of al miner of vermin. 
All the tere hive wo tll of hawking and buwiiog, 
Gnd thetehare alee wenery .. . I Called Fie ind 
ef sir jriafeors—Sir T, Maly, Mutery of Prime 
Arthur, iL J (Liu). 


Sir TJristram'’s forse, Possetredl or 





It is called both, bat 


Passe Brewell, 


| one seems to be a clerical error, 


(Passe Brewell ia in sir T. Malory's 
History of Prince Arthur, ii, 68.) 

History of Sir Tristram or Tristan, 
The oldest story is by Gotfrit of Stras- 
bourg, a minnesinger (twelfth century), 
entitled Zristan and Jsolde, It was con- 
tinued by Ulrich of Turheim, by Hein- 
rich of Freyburg, and others, to the 
extent of many thousand verses. The 
tale of sir Tristram, derived from Welsh 
traditions, was versified by Thomas the 
Rhymer of Erceldoune. 

The second part of the History of 
Prince Arthur, compiled by sir T. 
Malory, is almost exclusively confined 
to the adventures of sir Tristram, a3 the 
third part is to the adventures of sir 
Launcelot and the quest of the holy 
graal (1470). 

Matthew Amold has a poem entitled 
Tristram; and R. Wagner, in 1865, pro- 
duced his opera of ZJristan and Jaolde, 

See Michel, Jristan; Recueil de ce qui 
reste des Puemes relatifs a sea Aventures 
(1835). 

Tristrem l"Hermite, provost-mar- 
shal of France in the reign of Louis XI. 
Introduced by sir W. Scott in Quentin 
Durward (1825) and in Anne of Gcierstemn 
(1829). 


Tritheim (J.), chronicler and theo- 
logian of Treves, elected abbot of Span- 
heim at the age of 22 years, He tried 
to reform the monka, bat produced a 
revolt, and resigned his office, Tle waa 
then appointed abbot of Wirzburg (1462- 
1514), 

Old Trithelon, busted with ble class the while, 
K. Erowning, Farecelmas, | (E56). 

Triton, the sea-trumpeter. Hae 
blows through a shell to rouse or allay 
the sea. A post-Lesiodic fable. 

Have aight of Protew coming from the see, 
Ur hear wld Triten blow his wreathéd horn. 
Wordeworth, 

Trito'nia’s Sacred Fane, the 
temple of Minerva, which once crowned 
“the marble steep of Sunium " or Co- 


lonna, the most southern point of Attica, 


There [on cape Colonna) reared by [alr devotion le 
In See Tritenia’s sacred fine, 
Faloomer, Tae shijsereck, 1, & (17a, 

Triumvirate (Jic) in English 
history; The duke of Marlborough con 
trolling foreign affairs, lord Godolphin 
controlling council and parliament, and 
the duchess of Marlborough controlling 


the court and queen, 











TROMATHON. 





*Te’s a regular Trojan,” means he is 
wn brare homme, a capital fellow. 


Trom‘athon, a desert island, one of 
the Orkney group.—Ossian, Oithona. 


Trompart, a lazy but wily-witted 
knave, grown old in cunning. He ac- 
companies Braggadoccio as his ‘squire 
(bk. ii, 3), but took to his heels when 
Talus shaved the master, 
shield,” blotted out his arms, and broke 
his sword in twain. Being overtaken, 
Talus gave him a sound drubbing (bk. v. 
3).—Spenser, Fuéry Queen (1590-6). 


Trondjem’s Cattle (Remember the 
bishup of), t.c. look sharp after your 
property ; take heed, or you will suffer 
for it. The story is, a certain bishop of 
Trondjem [ Tron’.yem] lost his cattle by 
the herdsinan taking his eve off them to 


look at anelk. Now, this elk was a spirit, | 


and when the herdsman looked at the 
cattle again they were no bigger than 
Mice ; again he turned towards the elk, 
in order to understand the mystery, and, 
while he did so, the cattle all vanished 
through a crevice into the carth.—Miss 
Martineau, Feats on the Fiord (1839). 


Tropho’nios, the architect of the 
temple of Apollo, at Delphi. After 
death, he was worshipped, and had a 
famous cave near Lebadia, called ‘‘ The 
Oracle of Trophonios.” 


The mouth of this cave was three yards high and two 
wite. Those who consultal the oracle had to 
several days, and then to deacend a steep ladder till they 
reached a narrow gullet. They were then seized by the 
feet. and dragged violently to the buttom of the cave, 
where they were assailed by the most unearthly n 
howlings, shrieks, bellowings, with lurid lights a 
wukien glares, in the midst of which uproar and phan- 
tasmagoria the uracle was pronounced. The votaries were 
then seized unexpectedly by the feet, and thrust out of the 
cave without ceremony. If any resisted, or attempted to 
enter In any other way, be was instantly murdered. — 
Plutarch, Lives. 


Trotley (Sir John), an old-fashioned 
country gentleman, who actually prefers 
the obsolete English notions of domestic 
life, fidelity to wives and husbands, 
modesty in maids, and constancy in 
lovers, to the foreign free and easy 
manners which allow married people 
unlimited freedom, and consider licen- 
tiousness bon tun.—Garrick, Bon TZun 
(1776). (See Priory, p. 793.) 


Trotter (Jub), servant to Alfred 
Jingle. <A sly, canting rascal, who has 
at least the virtue of fidelity to his 
master. Mr. DVickwick's generosity 
touches his heart, and he shower a sincere 

titude to his benefactor.—C Dickens, 
he Pickwick Pavers (1836). 


1087 


‘“reft his | 





TROUILLOGAN. 


Trotter (Nelly), fishwoman at old 84 
Ronan's.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan's Well 
(time, George III.). 


Trotters, the Punch and Judv show- 
man ; alittle, good-natured, unsuspicious 
man, Very unlike his misanthrupic com- 
panion, Thomas Codlin, who played the 
panpipes and collected the money. 
eel Baie was EAs i Arr retin 

into Trotters, w prefatu ve 

** Short,” by reason of the small size of his Short 
Trotters, however, being a compound name, incon- 
venient in friendly dialogue, he was called either Trutters 
t, and never Short Trotters, except on occasions 
chens, The Oid Curiosity Shop, xv¥ 





Trotty, the sobriquet of Toby Veck, 
ticket-porter and jobman. 


They called bim Trolty from hi pore, which meant 
ceed, Wo it didn't moke It Fle coukl have walked 


iuter, perhaps; mont Ukely: but rol im of his trot, 
aul Toly would bave inkes ta hile bed pnd died. 18 
bequettered! him with mod loi dirty weather: It enst 

a world of roolkle: be ould hore walked with infinitely 
predier east; bot ibal wea one reason fur his clinging to 


hile tok po hemlnly A weak, sual), ppare old Man ; 


he wae a wery Horculls, ihls Toley, in bie good inten- 
tom —C, Dickens, Fie Chdeme, L | LAs) 
Trotwood (Betsey), usually called 
‘*Miss Betsey,” great-aunt of David 
Copperfield. Her idiosyncrasy was don- 
kevs. A dozen times a day would she 
rush on the green before her house to 
drive off the a and donkey-boys. 
She was a most kind-hearted, worthy 
woman, who concealed her tenderness of 


heart under a_ snappish austerity of 


manner. Miss Betsey was the true friend 
of David Copperfield. She married in 
her young days a handsome man, who 
ill-used her and ran away, but preyed on 
her for money till he died.—C. Dickens, 
David Copperficld (1849). 


Trouillogan, a philosopher, whose 
advice was, ‘‘ Do as you like.” Panurge 
asked the sage if he advised him to 
marry. ‘‘Yes,” said Trouillogan. ‘‘What 
say you?” asked the prince. ‘Let it 
alone,” replicd the sage. ‘‘ Which would 
you advise?" inquired the prince. 
‘‘ Neither,” said the sage. ‘‘ Neither?” 
cried Panurge; ‘‘that cannot be.” 
‘‘Then both,” replied Trouillogan. 
Panurge then consulted several others, 
and at last the oracle of the Holy 
Bottle.—Rabelais, Pantagruel, iii. 85 
(1543). 

Molitre has introduced this joke in his 
Mariage Forcé (1664). Sganare.e asks 
his friend Géronimo if he would advise 
him to marry, and he answers, ‘‘ No.” 
‘* But,” says the old man, ‘I like the 
young woman.” ‘Then marry her b 
all means.” ‘‘That is your advice?” 
says Sganarelle, ‘‘ My advice is do as 





TRUSTY. 


but the conccit is more suited to ‘‘a 
naval veteran” than a lawycr’s clerk. 
(Sce WEMMICK.) 


Trusty (Jfrs.), landlady of the 
Queen's Armes, Romford. Motherly, 
most kind-hearted, a capital caterer, 
whose ale was noted. Bess ‘‘the beg- 
gar's daughter” took Sie with her, and 
was most kindly treated. Mrs. Trusty 
wished her son Ralph to take Bess to 
wife, but Bess had given her heart to 
Wilford, the son of lord Woodville, her 
cousin.—S. Knowles, The Begyar of 
Bethnal Grecn (1834). 


Truth in a Well. Cicero says, 
‘*Naturam accusa, que in profundo 
veritatem, ut ait Democritus, penitus 
abstruseris.”— Academics, i. 10. 

Cleanthés is also credited with the 
phrase. 


Tryamour (Sir) the hero of an old 
metrical novel, and the model of all 
knightly virtues. 


Try’anon, danghter of the fairy 
king who lived on the island of Ole’ron. 
‘‘She was as white asa lily in May, or 
snow that snowcth on winter's day,” and 
her ‘“‘haire shone as goldé wire.” This 
mragon of beauty married sir Launfal, 

ing Arthur's steward, whom she carried 
off to “*Oliroun, her jolif isle.”—Thomas 
Chestre, Sir Launfal (fifteenth century). 


Trygon, a poisonous fish. Ulysses 
was mecidentally killed by his son Tele- 
gonos with an arrow pointed with 
tryon-bone. 

The lord of Ithica, 
Struck by the poisonous trygon's bone, expired. 
West, SriumpAc of the Gout ("* Lucian,” 1730), 
Tryphon, the sea-god's physician, 
They aend in haste for hon, to apply 
KR dves to his wounds, and medicines of might: 
Fur Try phon of sea-guits the sovereign leech is bight. 
Spenser, /aery Queen, lil. 4 (15y0). 

Tubal, a wealthy Jew, the friend of 
Shylock.—Shakespeare, The Merchant of 
Venice (a drama, 1598). 


Tuck, a long, narrow sword (Gaelic 
fuca, Welsh tuca, Italian stocco, French 
ester), In Hamlet the ward “tuck” is 
erroncously printed stuck in Malone's 
edition. 


If he by chance earape your venomed tuck, 
Our purpose may bold there. 
thakerpeare, dHamile?, act iv. se. 7. 


Tuck (Friar), the ‘‘curtal friar of 
Fountain’s Abbey,” was the father con- 
fessor of Robin flood. He is represented 
us a slcek-headed, pudgy, paunchy, pug- 


1089 


ee an Leer a 
TULKINGHORN. 


nacious clerical Falstaff, very fat and 
self-indulgent, very humorous, and some- 
what coarse. His dress was a russet 
habit of the Franciscan order, a red 





_ corded girdle with gold tassel, red stock- 


a 


ings, and a wallet. 

Sir Walter Scott, in his Jvanhoe, calls 
him the holy clerk of Copmanhurst, and 
describes him as a ‘large, strong-built 
man in a sackcloth gown and hood, girt 
with a rope of rushes.” He had a round, 
bullet head, and his close-shaven crown 
was edged with thick, stiff, curly black 
hair. His countenance was bluff and 
jovial, eyebrows black and bushy, fore- 

ead well-turned, cheeks round and 


| ruddy, beard long, curly, and black, 


form brawny (ch. xv.). 

In the May-day morris-dance, the friar 
is introduced in full clerical tonsure, with 
the chaplet of white and red beads in his 
right hand, a corded girdle about his 
waist, and a russet robe of the Francis- 
can order. His stockings red, his girdle 
red ornamented with gold twist and a 
golden tassel. At his girdle hung a 
wallet for the reception of provisions, 
for ‘‘ Walleteers " had no other food but 
what they received from begging. Friar 
Tuck was chaplain to Robin Food the 
May-king. (See Morris-DAnce.) 

In this our spacious isle, I think there is not one 

But he bath heard some talk of Hood and Little Joba; 

Of Tuck, the :erry friar, which many a sermon made 

In praise of Hobin Hood, bis outlaws, and their trade. 
Drayton, Polyoldéon, xxvi. (1022), 

Tud (Jforgan), chief physician of ki 
Arthur.— The iabinogon (‘ Geraint,” 
twelfth century). 


Tug (Zum), the waterman, a straight- 
forward, honest young man, who loves 
Wilelmi’na the daughter of Mr. and 
Mrs. Bundle, and when he won the 
waterman's badge in rowing, he won the 
consent of ‘‘the gardeners daughter” to 
become his loving and faithful wife.—C, 
Dibdin, Zhe Waterman (1774). 


Tukely, the lover of Sophia. As 
Sophia has a partiality to the Hon. Mr. 
Daffodil, ‘‘the male coquette,” Tukely 
dresses in woman's clothes, makes an 
appointment with Daffodil, and gets him 
to slander Sophia and other ladies, con- 
cealed among the trees. They thus hear 
his slanders, and, presenting themselves 
before him, laugh him to scorn.—Garrick, 
The Male Coquette (1758). 

Tulk’'inghorn (Jfr.), attorney-at 
law and leyal adviser of the Dedlocks, 
Very silent, and perfectly self-contained, 
but, knowing lady Dedlock’s secret, he is 





TURN THE TABLES. 








them from the Turks who had not em- 
braced that faith. 


Turn the Tables, to rebut a charge 
by a counter-charye, so that the accused 
becomes in turn the accuser, and the 
blamed charges the blamer.—Sec Dic- 
twnary of Phrase and Fable, 873. 

It enables 
A matron. who her hushand's foible knows, 
hy a few timely words to turn the tables. 
Byron, Yon Juan, L 768. 

Turnabout (7ic), the Times news- 

raper. The editor, T. Barnes, was called 
‘Mr. T. Bounce.” 


Turnbull (Michacl), the Douglas's 
dirk huntsman.—Sir W. Scott, Custle 
Danyerous (time, Henry [.). 


Turnbull (Mr. Thomas), also called 
“Tom Turnpenny,” a canting smuggler 
and schoolmasier.—Sir W. Scott, Red- 
gintict (time, George IITL.). 


Turnip-Hoer, George I. So called 
because, when he first came over to Eng- 
land, he proposed planting St. James's 
Park with turnips (1660, 1714-1727). 


Turnpenny (Vr.), banker at March- 
thorn.—Sir W. Scott, St. Ronun’s Well 
(time, George ITT.). 


Turnponny (Tom), also called ‘‘Thomas 
Turnball,” a canting smuyler and school- 
master.—Sir W. Scott, decd ysuntict (time, 
Georve III.). 


Turntippit (O/d lord), one of the 
privy council in the reign of William ITT. 
—Sir W. Scott, Brie of Lammermoor 
(1819). 

Turon, the son of Brute's sister, slew 
600 Aquitanians with his own hand in 
one sinle fight. 


Where Turon, . . . Rrute’s sister's valiant ann, . . . 
Bas buestred slow outright thro hts peculiar strength 5 
By mitetodes of men, yet overprossed at lengtis, 


Hisneotre uate there, to his tnnertal name 
The cay Tura lrvare, butt, and well codowed the game, 
Drayton, fulyoféion, §. (1612). 
Turpin, a churlish knight, who re- 
fuses hospitality. to sir Calepine and 
Serena, althouzh solicited to do so by 
his wife Blanida (bk. vi. 3). Serena told 
prince Arthur of this discourtesy, and 
the prince, after chastising Turpin, dis- 
knizhted him, and prohibited bim from 
bearin,s arms ever after (bk. vi. 7). The 
diszraced churl now vowed revenge ; 
so olf he starts, and seeing two knights, 
ccmplains to them of the wrongs done 
to himself and his dame by ‘‘a recreant 
knight,” whom he points out to them. 
Tho two champions instantly chalicnye 


1041 





°° =. gap 


TURQUINE. 





the prince ‘as a foul woman-wronger,” 
and defy him to combat. One of the 
two champions is soon slain, and the other 
overthrown, but is spared on craving his 
life. The survivor now returns to Turpin 
to relate his misadventure, and when they 
reach the dead body see Arthur asleep. 
Turpin proposes to kill him, but Arthur 
starts up and hangs the rascal on a tree 
(bk. vi. 7).—Spenser, Fuéry Queen (1596). 


Turpin, “archbishop of Rheims,” the 
hypothetical author of a Chronicle, pur- 
porting to be a history of Charlemagne'’s 
Spanish adventures in 777, by a con- 
temporary. This fiction was declared 
authentic and genuine by pope Calixtus 
II. in 1122, but it is now generally at- 
tributed to a canon of Barcelona in the 
eleventh century. 

The tale says that Charlemagne went 
to Spain in 777, to defend one of his allics 
from the aggressions of a neighbouring 
proce. Having conquered Navarre and 
Aragon, he returned to France. He then 
crossed the Pyrences, and invested Pam- 
peluna for three months, but without 
success. Ile tricd the cffect of prayer, 
and the walls, like those of Jericho, fell 
down of their own accord. Those Sara- 
cens who consented to be baptized, he 
spared, but the rest were put to the sword. 
Being master of Pampecluna, the hero 
visited the sarcophagus of James; and 
Turpin, who accompanied him, baptized 
most of the neighbourhood.  Charle- 
magne then Ied back his army over the 
Pyrenees, the rear being under the com- 
mand of Roland. The main army reached 
France in safety, but 50,000 Saracens fell 
on the rear, and none escaped. 


Turpin (Dick), » noted highwayman, 
executed at York (1739). 

Ainsworth has introduced into Roob- 
woud Turpin’s famous ride to York on hig 
steed Black Bess. It is said that Maginn 
really wrete this powerful description 
(1834). 


Turpin (The French Dick) is Cartouche, 
an cightcenth century highwayman. W, 
Hi. Ainsworth made him the hero of a 
romance (1841). 


Tur’quine (Sir) had sixty-four of 
king Arthur's knights in prison, all of 
whom he had vanquished by his own hand. 
He hated sir Launcelot, because he had 
slain his brother, sir Car’ados, at the 
Dolorous Tower. Sir Launcvlot chal- 
lenged sir Turquine to a trial of strength, 
and slew jim, after which he liberated 

3x 





qs « - 


TWELVE KNIGHTS, ETC. 


abbot of Saighir (now Scir-Aciran, King's 
County). 

2. CiaRAy or KErray, abbot of Clom- 
macnois, 

3. CoLUMCILLE of Hy (now Jona). 
This prelate is also called St. Columba. 

4, Brenxpax, bishop and abbot of 
Clonfert. 

5. Brenpbay, bishop and abbot of Birr 
(now Paursonstuwn, King’s County). 

6. CoLumpa, abbot of Tirdaglas. 

7. Movatse or Latsrx, abbot of Dam- 
hiris (now Derenish IJslund, in lough 
Erne). 

8. Cainnecn, abbot of Aichadhbo, 
in (Queen's County. 

9. Ruapayn or Ropan, abbot of Lorrha, 
in Tipperary County. 

10. Mont CLAIRENERCH (i.e. ‘the flat- 
faced"), abbot of Glasnooidhan (now 
Glasacrm, near Dublin). 

11. SENELL, abbot of Cluain-inis, in 
louch Erne. 

2, NANNATH or NENNITH, bishop and 
abbot of Inismuige-Samh (now Jnismac- 
Sauce, in lough Erne). 

Twelve Knights of the Round 
Table. Dryden says there were 
twelve paladins and twelve knights of 
the Round Table. The table was made 
for 150, but as twelve is the orthodox 
number, the following names hold the 
Most conspicuous places :—(1) Launcr- 
Lor, (2) Tristras, and (3) LAMORACKE, 
the three bravest; (4) Tor, the first made; 
(5) GaLamap, the chaste; (6) GAW‘AIN, 
the courteous; (7) Garetu, the big- 
handed ; (8) PaALomiprEs, the Saracen or 
unbaptized ; (9) Kay, the rude and 
boastful; (10) Mark, the dastard; (11) 
Monrprep, the traitor; and the twelfth, 
as in the case of the paladins, must be 
selected from one of the following names, 
all of which are seated with the prince in 
the frontispiece attached to the J/istory 
of Prince Arthur, compiled by sir T. 
Malory tn 1470 :—Sirs Acolon, Ballamore, 
Beleobus, Belvoure, Bersunt, Bors, Ector 
de Maris, Ewain, Floll, Gaheris, Galohalt, 
Grislet, Lionell, Marhaus, Paginet, Pel- 
leas, Percival, Sayris, Superabilis, and 
Turquine. 

Or we may take from the Jfabinogion 
the three ‘battle knights,” Cadwr, 
Launcelot, and Owain; the three 
“counselling knights,” Kynon, Aron, and 
Liywarch Hen; the three ‘ diademed 
knights,” Kai, Trystan, and Gwevyl; 
and the three * golden-tongued,” Gwalch- 
mai, Drudwas, and Eliwlod, many of 
which are unknown in modern story. 


1048 





TWELVE PALADINS. 


Sir Walter Scott names sixteen ef 
renown, seated round the king: 
There Galaad sat with manly grace, 


Yet maiden meekness in bis face; 
There Morolt of the iron mace; 
And lovelorn 


Tristrem there; 

And Dinadam, with lively glance ; 
And Laneail, with the fairy lance; 
And Mordred, with his lvoks askance 3 

Brunor and Belvidere. 
Why should I tell of numbers more f 
Sir Cuy, sit Banier, and cr Bore, 

Sir Guradoc the keen, 
And gentile Gawain’s courteous 
Beoetor de Mares, anid Pe'linere, 
And Lancelot, that evermore 

Lovkeu stol’n-wise on the queen. 

Bridal of Yricrinain, il. 13 (1813) 


Twelve Paladins (Tic), twelve 
famous warriors in Charlemagne’s court. 

1. ASTOLPHO, cousin of Roland, de- 
scended from Charles Martel. A 
boaster, fool-hardy, and singularly hand- 
some. It was Astolpho who went to the 
moon to fetch back Orlando's (Roland's) 
brains when mad. 

2. Fent wiias or FrerRABRAS, 8 Sarae 
cen, afterwaris converted and baptized. 

3. FLoxisMart, the fidus Achatés of 
Roland or Orlando. 

4. GANELON, the traitor, count of 
Mayence. Placed by Danté in the In- 
ferno. 

5. Mavoris, in Italian Macagier, 
cousin to Rinaldo, and son of Beuves of 
Aygremont. He was brought up by 
Oriande the fairy, and became a great 
enchanter. 

6. Namo or NayMeE de Bavitre. 

7. Ocier the Dang, thought to be 
Holger the hero of Denmark, but some 
affirm that ‘‘ Dane” is a corruption of 
Dumné; so called because he was not 
baptized. 

8. OLIVER, son of Regnier comte de 
Gennes, the rival of Roland in all feats 
of arms. 

9. OTUEL, a Saracen, nephew to Fere 
ragus or Ferracute. He was converted, 
and married a daughter of king Charle- 
magne. 

lu. RinALpo, son of duke Aymon, 
and cousin to Roland. Angelica fell in 
love with him, but he requited not her 
affection. 

11. Ro.ann, called ORLANDO in Italian, 
comte de Cenouta. He was Charle- 
magne's nephew, his mother being Berthe 
the king’s sister, and his father Millon. 

12. One of the following names, all of 
which are called paradins, and probably 
supplied vacancies caused by veath — 
Basin de Genevois, Geoffrey de Frises, 
Guerin duc de Lorraine, Guillaume de 
l’Estoc, Guy de Bourgogne, Hotl comte 

















TWO DROVERS. 


lord Sandwich, noted for his liaison with 
Miss Nay (1718-1742). 

When ely Jommy Telicher had enoggel op hile feo 

With a lick of ort white wily mid mone prince, 

Amn@ing be went where thre ster uf okt, 

Lot Landes pecholy, gutthe god mood 

Wray (1710-1771). 

Two Drovers (Tie), a tale in two 
chapters, laid in the reign of Gieorge IIT., 
written bw sir Walter Scott (1827). It is 
one of the “ Chronicles of the Canongate " 
(vee p. ING), supposed to be told by Mr. 
Crofiangry. Kobin Oig M't ‘ombich, a 
His ehland drover, reven:reful aod proud, 
meets with Harry W aketield, a jovial 
English drover, and quarrels with him 
about a pasture-field, They fight in 
Heskett's ale-house, bot are separated, 
Oig poes on his way ond gets a dager, 

with which he returns to the ale- house, 
and stabs Harry who 18 three parts 
drunk. Weing tried for murder, he is 
condemned and executed, 


Two Eyes of Greece ( 7ic), Athens 
and Sypuarta, 


Athens, the eve of Greece, mother of arte 
Aru ehiyiieticm, 
Milton. 


Two Gentlemen of Vero'na, a 





drama by Shakespeare, the story of which | 


ia taken from the Jitas of Montemayor 
(sixteenth centurv). The tale ia this: 
Protheus and Valentine were two friends, 
and Protheus was in love with a lady of 
Verina, named Julia, Valentine went to 
sojourn in Milan, and there fell in love 
With Silvia, the duke's daughter, who was 
promis in marriage to Thuno. Fro- 
theus, being sent by his father to Milan, 
forzut Julia, fell in love with Silvia, and, 
in order te earry his point, induced the 
duke to banish Valentine, who became 
the captain of o banditti, into whose hands 
Silvia fell. Julia, unable to bear the 
alminee of her lover, dressed in boy's 
clothes, and, going to Milan, hire herself 


asa jape to retheds, and wlien Silvia wos | 


Jost, the dike, with Thurio, Protheus and 
his page, Went in quest of her. She was 
son disvaivere|, bot when Thuno at- 


tempted te take pusseasivn of her, Va- | 


Jentine sand to him, “) daré vou to touch 
her; " und Thuno replied, “* None but 
afool would fight fora girl.” The duke, 
disytistel, pave Silvia to Valentine ; and 
Protheus, ashamed of his condnet, bered 
porden of Valentine, discovered his page 
to be Julia, and married ber (1595). 


Two Kings of Brentford (Ti). 
In the duke of Luckingham'‘s farce 
called Jie Jicheursal (16/1), the two 


1048 





TYBALT. 


kings enter hand-in-hand, dance to 
gether, sing together, walk arm-in-arm, 
and, to heighten the absurdity, they are 
made to smell of the same nosegay (act 
ii. 2). 


Two-Legged Mare (Tic), a 
gallows. Vice snys to Tybum: 
1 will belp to bridla the twu-legged mare, 
Like Will to Lube, ete, (LST). 
Two-BShoes ((foody), a nursery tale 
by Qiliver Goldsmith (1765), Goody 
Two-shoes was a very poor child, whose 
delight st having a pair of shoes was so 
unbounded that she could not forbear 
telling every one she met that she had 
‘“‘two shoes," whence her name. She 
acquired knowledge and became wealthy. 
The title-page states that the tale is for 
the benefit of those, 
Wohin from 4 stinte of rigs and core, 
Avid brivinut shee tet ball a ait 


Their fortune and thelr fame should fis 
Ad gallop Li mt cic mud ale. 


Two Strings 2 Your Bow, a 
farce by Jephson (1792). Lazarillo, want- 
ing a niasier, enters ‘be service of don 
Felix and alsn of Octavio at the same 
time. He makea perpetual blunders, 
such as yiving letters and money to the 
wrong master; but it turms out that don 
Felix is donna Clara, the betrothed of 
Octavio. The lovers meet at the Eagle 
hutel, recornize each other, and become 
mao and wife, 


Two Unlucky. In our dynasties 
two has been an unlucky number; thus: 
Ethelred II. was forced to abdicate ; 
Harold I]. was alain at Hastings ; Wil- 
liam IJ. waa shot in the New Forest; 
Henry 1). had te fight for his crown, which 
waa usurped by Stephen; Edward IT. was 
undeon) at Merkeley Castle; Richard 
I]. was deposed ; (haries 11. was driven 
into exile; James II. was obliged to 
alwlicate; (Creorre I]. was worsted ast 
Fontenoy and lLawfeld, was disgraced 
by general Braddock and admiral Byng, 
and was troubled by Charles Edward the 
Young Pretender. 


Two or Three Berries. ‘Yet 
cleaning grapes elall be left in it, as the 
shaking wf an olive trec, two or three 
berries in the top of the uppermoss 
bough. "—Jsaeth xvii. 6. 

The tree of lifp has been shaken, 
And bot few of oo linger now, 
Like the prepbet's two or hires berries 
in the top of the ap ae boris. 
Longiellow, Tha Moeting, 

Tyb'alt, a fiery young nobleman of 

Verona, nephew to lady Capilet, and 











TYLWYTH TEG. 


with observations, anccdotes, fables, bon | 


1047 


TYSON. 
Tyrog’lyphus (‘‘ the cheesc-scouper”), 





mots, facetie, and shuws forth the om- ! one of the mouse princes slain in the 


nipotence of common sense. There are 
two good English versions of this popular 
picaresco romance—one printed by William 
Copland, and entitled Zhe Merryc Jeste 
of a Man called Howléglass, and the many 
Marvellous Thinjes and Jestes which he did 
in Ais Lyfe in Eustland; and the aqther 

ublished in 1860, translated by K. R. H. 
Mackenzie, and illustrated by Alfred 
Crowquill. In 1720 was brought out a 
moditied and abridged edition of the 
German story. 


To few mortals has it been granted to earn euch a place 
{n universal history as Ty il Kulenspiegel [ U’/en-apee'.gf} 
Now, after five centuries, Tyli's native village is pulnted 
out with pride to the traveller, ami his tombstone... 
still stands... at Mullen. near Lubeck, where, since 
aay iste] his once nimble bones have been at rest — 

sie. 


Tylwyth Teg, or the ‘Family of 
Beauty,” elves who ‘‘ dance in the moon- 
light on the velvet sward,” in their airy 
and flowing rebes of blue and = green, 
white and scarlet. These beautiful fays 
delight in showering benefits on the 
human race.— Zhe Jfubinoyion (note, p. 
203). 

Tyneman (2 sy/.), Archibald IV. 
earl of Douglas, So called because Le 
was always on the losing side. 


Tyre, in Dryden's satire of Absalom 
ant = Achituphel, means Holland. 
‘*Eyvvpt,” in the same satire, means 
France. 

1 mourn, my countrymen, your lost estate... 
Now all your liberties a spoil are niade, 
Egy pt and T)rus intercept jour trade. 

Pe. £ (1661) 

Tyre (Archbishop of), with the cru- 
saders.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Tulisman 
(time, Richard I.). 


Tyrian Cyn’osure (3 syl/.), Ursa 
Minor Ursa Major is called by Milton 
‘'The Star of Arcady,” from Calisto, 
dauslver of Lyea’on the first king of 
Areadia, who was changed into this con- 
stellation, Her son Arcas or Cynosfra 
was made the Lesser Bear.—Pausanias, 
Atinerary of Greece, Vili. 4. 

And thon shalt be our star of Aready, 
Or Tyrian Cynuosure. 
Milton, Comus, 343 (1634). 

Tyrie, one of the archers in the 
Scotti:h guard of Louis XI.—Sir W. 
Seott, Quentin Durward (time, Edward 
1V.). 

Tyrie (The Rer, Michael), minister of 
Glenorjuhy.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe High- 
land VMiaudvu (time, George II.). 


battle of the frogs and mice by Lym- 
nisius (‘‘ the laker”). 

Pines an mien ee aan the flowery vales; 

Lost t the milky fares and rural seat, 

He caine to perish on the bank of fate. 
Parnell, Battle of the Frogs and Mice, il. (about 1712). 

Tyrrel (Francis), the nephew cf Mr. 
Mortimer. He loves Miss Aubrey ‘‘ with 
an ardent, firm, disinterested love.” On 
one occasion, Miss Aubrey was insulted 
by lord Courtland, with whom Tyrrel 
fought a duel, and was for a time in 
hiding; but when Courtland recovered 
from his wounds, Tyrrel re-appeared, and 
ultimately married the lady of his affec- 
an The Fashwnable Lover 

1780). 


Tyrrel (Frank) or Martigny earl of 
Etherington, son of the late earl and la 
comtesse de Martigny his wife. He is 
supposed to be illegitimate. Frank is in 
love with Clara Mowbray, daughter of 
Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan’s.—Sir W. 
Scott, St. Honan's Well (time, George 

-)e 


Tyrteeos, selected by the Spartans 
as their leader, because his lays inspired 
the soldiers to deeds of daring. The 
following is a translation of one of his 
martial songs :— 


Oh, how joyous to fall In the face of the foe, 
For country and altar to dis! 

But a lot more ignoble po mortal can know, 

Than with childrwn and parents, beart- broken 
From home as an exile to fly. 


Unrecompensed labour, starvafion, and scorn, 

The feet of the captive attend ; 

Dishonoured his race, by rude fues uverborne 3 

From altar, from country, from kith and kin torn, 
No brother, no sister, no friend. 


To the field, then! De strong, and acjuit se like men f 
Who shail (ear for bis country to fall? 

Ye younger, in ranks finnly serried remain ; 

Yo elders, though weak, jouk on filght with disdain, 
And honour ) our fatheriand’s call! ROR 


Tyrtaos (The Spanish), Manuel José 
Quintina, whose odes stimulated the 
Spaniards to vindicate their liberty at 
the outbreak of the War of Indepen- 
dence (1772-1857). 

*,* Who can tell the influence of such 
odes as the Murseillaise, or some of the 
Jacobite songs, on the spirit of a people ? 
Even the music-hall song, ‘‘We don't 
want to fight,” almost roused the English 
nation into a war with Russia in 187 


with wos, 


Tyson (Aate), a romantic young lady, 
who marries Frank Cheeney.—Wybert 
Reeve, Parted. 








ULFIN. 


Ulfin, the page of Gondibert’s grand- 
sire, and the faithful Achaités of Gondi- 
bert’s father. He cured Gondibert by a 
cordial kept in his sword hilt.—Sir W. 
Davenant, Gondibert (died 1668). 


Ulien’s Son, Rodomont.—Ariosto, 
Orlando Furioso (1516). 


Ulin, an enchantress, who had no 
power over those who remained faithful 
to Allah and their duty; but if any fell 
into error or sin, she had full power to do 
as she liked. Thus, when Misnar (sultan 
of India) mistrusted the protection of 
Allah, she transformed him into a toad. 
When the vizier Horam believed a false 
report, obviously untrue, she  trans- 
formed him also into a toad. And 
when the princess Hemjunah, to avoid 
Q marriage projected by her father, 
ran away with a stranger, her indiscre- 
tion placed her in the power of the en- 





chantress, who transformed her likewise: 


into ntoad. Ulin was ultimately killed 
by Misnar sultan of Delbi, who felled 
her to the ground with a blow.—Sir C, 
Morell (J. Ridley], Zules of the Genii, 
Vi., Vill. (1751). 


Ullin, Fingal’s aged bard, called ‘‘the 
sweet voice of resounding Cona,.” 

Uliin, the Irish name for Ulster. 

He pursued the chase on Ullin. on the moss-corered tip 
of Drumardo. hn, Temora, iL 

Ullin’s Daughter (Zord), a young 
lady who eloped with the chief of Ulva's 
Isle, and induced a boatman to row them 
over Lochyyle during a storm. The boat 
was capsized just as lord Ullin and his 
retinue reached the shore. [He saw the 
peril, he cried in agony, ‘‘Come back, 
come back! and I'll forgive your High- 
Iand chicf;" but it was too late, the 
“waters wild rolled o'er his child, and 
he was left lamenting.”—Campbell, Lord 
Ullin's Dawyhter (a ballad). 


Ul-Lochlin, the guiding star of 
Lochlin or Scandinavia.—Ossian, Cath- 
Luda, ii. 

Ulric, son of Werner (i.c. count of 
Sicyendorf). With the help of Gabor, 
he saved the count of Stral’‘enheim from 
the Oder; but murdered him afterwards 
for the wrongs he had done his father 
and himself, especially in seeking to 
oust them of the princely inheritance of 
Sievendorf.— Byron, Werner (1822). 


Ulri’ca, in Charles XII, by J. RB. 
Planche (1826). 


1049 


ULYSSES. 


Uiritca, a girl of great beauty and 
noble determination of character, natural 
daughter of Ernest de Fridberg. Dressed 
in the clothes of Herman (the deaf and 
dumb jailer-lad), she gets access to the 
dungeon where her father is confined as 
a ‘‘ prisoner of State,” and contrives his 
escape, but he is recaptured. Where- 
upon Christine (a voung woman in the 
service of the countess Marie) goes 
direct to Frederick II. and obtains his 
pardon.—FE., Stirling, The Prisoner of 
State (1847). 





Uirica, alias Mantua, mother of 
Bertha the betrothed of Hereward 
(3 syl.).—Sir W. Scott, Count Rover’ of 
Paris (time, Rufus). 


Uiriva, daughter of the Inte thane of 
Torqui!stone ; aluzs Dame Urfried, an old 
siby! at Torquilstone Castle.—Sir W. 
Scott, /ranAve (time, Richard ].). 


Ulster (The kings of). The kings of 
Ulster were called O'Neil ; those of Afun- 
ster, O'Brien ; of Connauyht, O'Connor; of 
Leinster, MacMorrough; and of Meath, 
O'’ Melaghlin. 


Ul'tima Thule (2 syl.), the ex- 
tremity of the world ; the most northern 

int known to the ancient Romans. 

liny and others say it is Iccland ; Cam- 
den says it is Shetland. It is the Gothic 
tiule (‘‘ the most remote land”). ° 

Tibi serviat ultima Thuile. 
Virgil, Georgicas, {. 38, 

Ultimus Romano’rum, Horace 

Walpole (1717-1797). 


Ulvf , the fierce Dane, who mas- 
sacred the Culdees of Io’na, and having 
bound Aodh in iron, carried him to the 
church, demanding of him where he had 
concealed the church treasures. At that 
moment a mysterious gigantic figure in 
white appeared, and, taking Ulvfagre by 
the arm, led him to the statue of St. 
Columb, which instantly fell on him and 
killed him. 


The tottering image was dashed 
Down from tts lofty pedestal ; 
On Ulvfagre’s helm it crashed. 
Helmet. and skill, and flexh, and brain, 
It crushed as milistones crush the Rn. 
Cam seulura., 


Ulysses, a corrupt form of Odusseus 
O.dus’.suce], the king of Ithaca. He 
is one of the chief herocs in Homer's 
Iliad, and the chief hero of the Odyssey. 
Homer represents him as being craftily 
wise and full of devices. Virgil ascribes 





: eee Ge 


UMBRA. 








erty and surnamed '* The Black ™ 
died 171%). 

*.* It was the son of sir Evan who 
was called ‘* The Gentle Lochiel.” 


Umbra ((sequious), in Garth's Dis- 
pensary, is meant for Dr, Gould (1699). 


Umbriel’ (2 syi.), the tutelar angel 
of ‘Thomas the doe once a Sadducee, 
and always hare 
stock, The Mfessush, iu. (1748). 


Oinbricl [mores] a sprile whom 
Spleen supplies with a bagful of “sihs, 
sobs, and cross words,” and a vialful of 
“soft sorrows, melting grief, and flowing 
tears.” When the baron cuts off Iielinda's 
lnck of hair, Umbriel breaks the vial 
over her, and Tielindsa instantly becins 
sighing and sobbing, chiding, weeping, 
anid pouting.—Dopr, Hupe of the Lock 
(1712). 

Umbriel, adinky, melancholy eprite 

As ever milli (he fir face vl Lach, 

Down té (he orntinal aril, ble | roper eceme, 

Kepalred, lu earch the ghey ce of Byler, 

Catibe ly, La, ete. 
U'na, truth; so called beeause truth 

is one, She gues, leading a lamb and 
ridin on a white ass, to the court of 
(iloriana, to crave that one of her knights 
might undertake to slay the dragon 
which kept her father and mother 
prisiners. The adventure is accorded to 
the Hed Crosa Koieht, ond the two tart 
forth together. A storm compel4 them 
to seck shelivr in a forest, and when the 
storm abatea they get into Wandering 
Wood, where they are indueed by Archi- 
mayo to sleep in his cell. <A vision is 
sent to the knight, which causes bim to 
quit the cell, and Una, not a little sur- 
prised at this discourtesy, goes in search 
of him. In her 
ciresseil by o lion, who 
atletidant. After many adventures, she 
flnds St.(seorze “the Red Cross Knight ;" 
he bad eloin the dragon, though not 
without manv a fell wound; so Una 
takes him te the house of [loliness, where 
he is carefully nursed; and then leads 
him tv Eden, where they are united in 
marriage.—Spenecr, Jury Queen, i, 
(15th). 


Lia, one of Flora M'Tvor's attend- 
ants.—Sir W. Scott, 
Genre IT.). 


Unadorned Adorned the Most. 


oe beeline 
Newils wot the foreign ali of ornament, 
Beh is, when ational, Galore tha pone, 
Tlomam, Jrasens | Autumn; Laviola,” 17D), 





1051 


of conviction.—Klop- | 


wanderings she is | 
becomes her | 


Waverley (time, | 





ED 


UNDINE, 


Uneas, son of Chingachcook, sur- 
named ‘* Deer-font.”"—F, Cooper, Last of 
fie Mohicans; Tie Pathfinder; and The 
Pioneer. 


Unborn Doctor (Mc), of Moor- 
ficlds. Not being born a doctor, he 
called himself “‘ The Un-borm Doctor.” 


Uncle Sam, the United States 
Government; so called from Samuel 
Wilson, one of the inspectors of pro- 
visions in the American War of Inde- 

‘idence, Samuel Wilson was called by 

is workmen and others “‘Lincle Sam,” 
and the goods which bore the contractor's 
initinis, E*A. U*S. (meaning “* Elbert 
Anderson, United States"), were read 
“ Elbert Anderson,” and “Uncle Sam,” 
The joke was too good to die, and Uncle 
Sam became synonymous with U.S. 
(United States), 


Uncle Toby, a captain who had been 
wounded at the siege of Namur, and bad 
been dismissed the service on half-pay, 
Most kind and bencrolent, modest and 
simple-minded, but brave and firm in his 
own opinions, Ilis gullantry towards 
Widow Wadman is EX(uisile for its 
melesty and chivalry. Lnocle Toby re- 
tains his military tastes and camp habits 
to the last.—Sterne, Tie Life and Opinions 
of Tristrum Shandy, Gentlemen (1759). 

Mut wheal shall [ ay to thee, tho quintessence of the 
milk of burn kimdoes, . . . Uist master of the best of 
curporala,. . . iawe bleh al only Anal Chridiag gentin- 
pan, ... divine wick Toly!.,.. He whe erated 
thra wae the fiest nan slice the dap of Sokespeare 
hitter! — Leigh Mut. 

Unele Tom, 4 negro slave of un- 
affected piety, and most faithful in the 
discharye of all bis duties. [lis master, a 
humane man, becomes embarrassed in his 
affairs, and sella him to a slave-dealer, 
After passing throuch various hands, and 
suffering intolerable crucltics, he dies.— 
Mra. Leecher Stowe, Uncle Jurm's Cabin 
(1852), 

*.” The original of this character was 
the necro slave subsequently ordained 
and called “the Rev. J, Henson.” He 
was in London 1876, 1877, took part io 
several religious services, and was even 
presented to her majesty queen Victoria, 


Undine [Oon-lern], a water-sylph, 
who was in early childhood changed for 
the young child of a fisherman living on 
a peninsula near an enchanted forest, 
One day, sir Huldbrand took shelter in 
the fisherman's but, fell in love with 
Undine, nnd married her, Being thus 
united too man, the sylph received a soul, 





a cocmeeuryy cmt AML LEVUKEG Undine in 
his anzer, and immediately she was 
snatched away by sister sviphs to her 
water home. Not long after. the knight 
proposed to Bertalda, and the wedding 
day arrived. Bertalda requested her maid 
to bring her soine water from the well ; 
so the corer was removed, Undine rose 
from the upheaving water, went to the 
chember of sir Huldbrand, kissed him, 
and he died. Thev buried him, and a 
silver stream bubbled round his grave; 
it was Undine who thus embraced him, 
true in life and faithful in death.—De la 
Motte Fouqué, Gaedine (1807). 

*.* This romance is founded on a tale 
by Theophrastus Paracelsus, in his Zrcatise 
on Llemeatal Sprites. 


Ungratoful Bird (Zhe). The pe- 
wit or green plover is so called in Scut- 
nd. 


The plover or pewit .. . Is called "‘ the ungrate- 
ful bind.” fer that it comes tu Scothiund to breed, and Gren 
returns to Engiaad with its young to feed the eemy.— 
Captain Rurt, Letters frum tae Nurth of Scotland (1726). 


Ungrateful Guest (Zh), a soldier 
in the army of Philip of Macédon, who 
had been hospitably entertained by a 
villazer. Being asked by the king what 
he could give him in reward of his 
services, the fellow requested he might | 
have the farm and cottave of his late 
host. Philip, disgusted at such baseness, 
had him branded with the words, THE 
UNGRATEFUL GUEST. 

U'nicorn. The unicom and lion 
are always like cat and dor. and na enan 








URANIAN VENUS. 


who fell in love with sir Guy (eldest son 
of St. George, the patron saintof England). 
—i. Johnsen, Tie Seven Champuinis, ete., 
hii. 2 (1G17). 

‘ 17 1 oa | 1 

Ura'nian Venus, tec. “ Celestial 
Venus,” the patroness of chaste and pure 
love. , oe. 

Venus pundewos or poptilaris is the 
Venus of the animal passion called 
“love.” : 

Venus ctaira or amica is the Venus of 
criminal sensuality. 

The ws) eee Cup hent above a eroll, 

And wer his tora Urmiian Venue hog 

Aad role the lujding leundage from bh rp 
Tennyson, The Prices, L (Le, 

Urban (Sylvanus), the hypothetical 
editor uf Tic Weaticman's Muajuzine, 

Tn the miminer of 15 1 bel apartments in the Rao 
Werte. Jiriecla My fieafoirs. .. a M. Urlinio... 
fnfiertiee mie thal he was of Linea) decent from an 
Fiwlishoat of thal tune... Sho prenomen Was 
“Si lialo “—Seo Vutet ond Queries 

Urchin, « hedgehog, a mischievous 
little fellow, a dwarf, an imp. 

We'll dees liber onc taleee. 
Bhukespeare, Merry Wired gf Winoisor, oct by. oc. fd (LM), 

Ureus, the Exyptian snake, crowned 
with a mitre, and typical of heaven. 


Urfried (Jim), on old sibyl at Tor- | 


ahpadg Castle; alias Ulrica, daughter of 
the late thane of Torquilstone.—Sir W. 
Seott, Jrua/-ee (time, Richard I). 


Urgan, a human child stolen by the 
king of the fairies, and brought up in 
elf-land. Ile was sent to lay on lord 
Kichardl the “curse of the sleepless cya” 
fur killing his wifes brother, Then, 
ail the dwarf tu Alice Itrand (the wife 
of lord Richard), “if any woman will 
sign ny brow thrice with a cross, I shall 
rusume my proper furm.” Alice signed 
him thrice, omd Uryan became at once 
‘the fairest knight in all Scotland,” and 
Alice reeuznized in bin her own brother 
Ethert.—sir W. Seott, Ludy of the Lake, 
iv. 12 (1610), 

Urganda, a potent fairy in the 
Avwtiia de Guul and other romances of 
tue Carlovingian cyele. 

Thu Urzweia wenied be owere of ber own im- 
jet Lance. — Squictleth 

Ur'gel, wne of Charlemagne’s pala- 
dins, fameus for his cnormous strength. 


U'riel (3) «y/.) or Israfil, the angel 
who is tu sound the resurrection trumpet. 
=—Al/ Avra. 

Ural, one of the seven great spirits, 
Whos elation was in the sun, The word 


1053 





URSA MAJOR. 


means *‘ God's light" (see 2 Esdras iv., 
v., X. 25). 
The archangel Uriel. one of the meren 
Who in Gels preence, weurest to Hl throne, 
Stand reed af corded. 
Bites, Parcdioe Laoat, UL ie, ofc, (LOGS. 

*," Longfellow calls him “‘ the minister 
of Mars,” and says that be inspirea man 
with “fortitude to bear the brunt and 
suffering of life."—Zic Golden Leyend, 
iii, (1851). 

D'rien, the foster-father of prince 
Madoc, Ife followed the prince to his 
settlement in North America, south of 
the Missouri (twelfth century).—Southey, . 
Afiudue (1805). 


_Urim, in Garth's Dispensary, is de- 
signed fur Dr. Atterbury. 
Crim waa ciel and not voll of sense, 
Had honour andl courte confidences, . . . 
Comatant of feasta, aol ech decor knew, 
dud evon aa the dessert ayrpmred, withdrew. 
Tha Dipenaary, L (Lie), 
Urim and Thummim was the 
“stone” which pave light in the ark. 
Our version saya that God commam'ed 
Noali to make a twiadow, but the transia- 
tion should be ‘‘to make a light.”"—See 
Paracelsus, Urim el Thumunin, 





Urin and Thumnim, the spectacles 
given by an angel tu Joseph Smith, to 
enable him to rend the revelation wntten 
in “reformed Egyptian" on the plates 
hidden ot the fowt of a mountain in 
Ontario. These spectacles are described 
as ‘‘ two transparent stones ect in the rim 
on a bow fastened to oa breastplate.” 
Smith deciphered the plates, and Oliver 
Cowdery touk down the words, ‘‘ because 
Smith was no scholar." 

Urra'ca, sister of Sancho II, of 
Castile, and queen of Zamora.—J’oema 
del Cid Cumpeudur (1128), 


Urre (ir), one of the knights of the 
Round ‘Table. Leing wounded, the king 
and his chief knights tried on him the 
effect of “‘handling the wounds” (i.e. 
touching them to heal them), but failed. 
At lust, sir Lanuncelot was invited to try, 
and as he touched the wounds they 
severally healed.—<Artiurian Homance. 

Urrie (Sir Jvhn), a ey 
leader.—Sir W. Scott, Levyend of Mons- 
rose (time, Charlea I.), 

Ursa Major, Calisto, danghter of 
Lycion, violated by Jupiter, and con- 
verted by Juno into a bear; whereupon the 
kiag of gods and men placed ber in the 
Zodine of a constclintion. The Great 
Lear is also called ‘“ Hellic@™ (see p. 80). 

















USNACH. 1055 VAFRINO. 
Charles I. (June 18, 1625). It was ad- | Starno king of Lochlin (Denmark).— 


journed to Oxford in August, and dis- 
solved twelve days afterwards. 


Usuach or Usna. Conor king of 
Ulster put to death by treachery the 
three sons of Usnach. This led to the 
desolating war against Ulster, which 
terminated in the total destruction of 
Eman. ‘This is one of the three tragic 
stories of the ancient Irish. The other two 
are [he Death of the Children of Tuuran, 
and The Death of the Children of Lir. 


Avenging and bright falls the swift sword of Erin 
On him who the brave sous of Vena betrayed! . . . 
By the rel cloud that hung over Conur’s dark dwelling 
When Ulad's three champions lay sleeping in gure. . . 
we ° a Mosre Irish Meolodice, \v. (‘' Avenging 
- Moure, vy. (°° 
and Bright... ” 1814) 


Uta, queen of Burgundy, mother of 
Kriemhild and Ginther.—The Nibelun- 
gen Lied (twelfth century). 


Utha, the ‘“‘ white-bosomed daughter 
of Herman.” She dwelt ‘by Thano's 
stream,” and was beloved by Frothal. 
When Fingal was about to slay Frothal, 
she interposed and saved his life.—Ossian, 

warric- Thura, 


Uthal, son of Larthmor petty king of 
Berrathon (a Scandinavian island). He 
dethroned his father, and, being very 
handsome, was beloved by Nina-Tho’ma 
(daughter of a neighbouring prince), who 
eloped with him. Uthal proved incon- 
stant, and, contining Nina-Thoma in a 
desert island, fixed his affections on 
another. In the mean time, Ossian and 
Toscar arrived at Berrathon. <A fight 
ensued, in which Uthal was slain in 
single combat, and Larthmor restored to 
his throne. Nina-Thoma was also re- 
leased, but all her ill treatment could 
not lessen her deep love, and when she 
heard of the death of Uthal she languished 
and died.—Ussian, Berruthun, 


Uthal or Cuthal, one of the Orkneys. 
—Oxnsian, Uithoma, 

“*The dark chief of Cuthal ” (the same 
as ** Dunrommath lord of Uthal”). 


Uther or Utrr, pendragon or war- 
chief of the Britons. He married Igerna 
widow of Gorloiz, and was by her the 
father of Arthurand Anne. This Arthur 
was the famous hero who instituted the 
knights of the Round Table.—Geoffrey, 
History of Britain, viii. 20 (1142). 


Uthorno, a bay of Denmark, into 
which Fingal was driven by atress of 
weather. It was near the residence of 


Ossiag, Cuth-Loda, i. 


Uto’pia, a political romance by sir 
Thomas More. 

The word means “nowhere” (Greek, 
ou-topos), It is an imaginary island, 
where everything is perfect—the laws, the 
politics, the morals, the institutions, etc. 
rhe author, by contrast, shows the evils 
of existing laws. Carlyle, in his Surtor 
RKesartus, has a place called ‘‘ Weissnicht- 
wo" [ Vice-neckt-ro, ‘I know not where”’}. 
The Scotch ‘‘ Kennaquhair” means the 
same thing (1524). 

Adoam describes to Telemachus the 
country of Bétique (in Spain) as a Uto- 
pia.—Fenelon, 7élémayue, viii. 


Utopia, the kingdom of Grangounsier. 
‘* Parting from Me’damoth, Pantag’ruel 
sailed with a northerly wind and passed 
Me’dam, Gel’asem, and the Fairv Isles ; 
then, keeping Uti to the left and Uden to 
the right, he ran into the port of Utopia, 
distant about 3¢ leagues from the city of 
the Amaurots.” 

*,* Parting from Afcdamoth (‘from 
no place"), he passed VMedam (‘‘ no- 
where"), Gclasem (‘* hidden land”), ete. ; 
keeping to the left Uti (‘nothing at 
all") and to the right Uden Ci nothing’), 
he entered the port of Utopia (‘‘no 
place’), distant 3} leagues from Amauros 
(‘‘ the vanishing point ").—See Mfups for 
the Blind, published by Nemo and ° 
of Weissnichtwo. 

(These maps were engraved by Outis 
and Son, and are very rare.) 


Usasiel [Uz'.zcel], the next in com- 
mand to Gabriel. The word means ‘‘God's 
strength.” — Milton, Paradise Lost, iv. 
782 (1665), 


V. 


Vadius, a crave and heavy t= 
Molitre, Les Femmes Savantes (1672). 

*,.* The model of this characttr was 
Menage, an ecclesiastic noted for his wit 
and learning. 


Vafri’no, Tancred’s ‘squire, practised 
in ali diayuises, and learned in all the 
Eastern languages. Ile was scent as a spy 





VALENTINE DE GREY. 


1057 





VALIANT-FOR-TRUTH. 





earried off by king Pepin (his uncle). In 
due time, Valentine married Clenmond, 
the Green Knight's sister,— Valentine and 
Orson (fifteenth century), 


Valentine de Grey (Sir), an Eng- 
lishman and knight of France. He had 
“an ample span of forehead, full and 
liquid eyes, free nostrila, crimson lips, 
well-bearded chin, and yet hia wishes 
were innocent as thought of babes.” Sir 
Valentine loved Hero, niece of sir 


William Sutton, and in the end married | 


ber.—-5. Knowles, Woman's Wit, etc, 


(1838). 


Valentin'ian [IIL], emperor of 
Rome (419, 425-455). During his reign, 
the empire was exposed to the invasions 
of the barbarians, and was saved from 
ruin only by the military talente of 
Att‘ius, whom the faithless emperor 
murdered. Inthe year following, Valen- 
tinian was himself “poisoned” by 

letronius] Maximus, whose wife he 

ad vielated. Ile was a feeble and con- 
temptible prince, without even the merit 
of brute courage. Ilis wife's name was 
Fudoxia,—leaument and Fletcher, Valen- 
tinwin (1G17). 


Valenti'no, Margheri'ta’s brother, in 
the opera of Faust ¢ Muryherita, by 
Guunod (1859), 


Valere (2 syi.), son of Anselme (2 
sl.) who turna out to be don Thomas 
d'Albuorei, a nobleman of Naples. Durin 
an insurrection, the family was exil 
and suffered shipwreck. Valere, werd at 
the time only seven years old, was picked 
up by « Spanish captain, who adopted 
him, and with whom he lived for sixteen 
years, When he went to Pans and fell in 
love with Elise the daughter of Har'’- 
paron the miser, Tere also Anselme, 
after wandering about the world for ten 
years, hud scttled down, aud Harpagon 
Wishel him to marry Elise; but the trath 
being made clear te him that Valvre was 
his own son, and Elise in love with him, 
matters were svon adjusted.—Molicre, 
L’ Acure (1647). 


Vulere (2 syl.), the “ gamester.” 
Angelica gives him « picture, and enjoins 
tim not to lose it on pain of forfeiting 
berhband Ile loses the picture in play, 
and Any lica, in disguise, is the winner 
of it. After a time, Valére is cured of 
bis vice and happily united to Angelica, 
—Mrs. Centlivre, The Gamester (1709), 


Vale'ria, sister of Valerius, and friend 
45 : 


| of Horatia.—Whuitehead, 
Father (1741). 


| chaste young wife was 





. The Boman 


Vale'ria, a blue-stocking, who delights 


in vivisection, entomology, women's 
rights, and natural part y.—Mrs, 
Centlivre, The Masset Table (1706), 


Valerian (valéré, “to be hale"), a 
lant of which cats are especially fond. 
t is good in nervous complainta, and a 

sovereign remedy for cramps, ‘Jt haih 
beene had in such veneration that no 
brothes, pottaye, or physicall meates are 
woorth anything if this be not at one 
end." (See VALIRIAN,) 

. Lets Ped re" 

To npn sno tha pins Dat halo wid to cra 

Drayton, Polyortdon, xill. (1613) 

Vale’rio, « noble young Neapolitan 
lord, husband of Fvanthé (3 ey/.). This 
: m her 
husband by Frederick, the licentious 
brother of Rinkerino king of Naples, who 
tried in vain to seduce ber, and then 
offered to make her any one's wife for a 
month, at the end of which time the 
libertine should suffer death. No one 
would accept the offer, and ultimately 
the lady was restored to her husband,— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, A Wife for a 
Month (1624), 


Valerius, the hero and title of o 
novel by J. G. Lockhart (18271). Vale- 
rius is the son of a Roman commander 
settled in Britain. After the death of his 
father, he is summoned to Rome, to take 

sseasion of an estate to which he is the 

eir, At the villa of Capito he meets 
with Athanasia, a lady who unites the 
Roman grace with the elevation of the 
Christian. Valerius becomes o Christian 
also, and brings Athanasia to Britain, 
The display at the Flavian amphitheatre 
is sdmirably described. A Christian 
prizener is brought forward, either to re- 
nounce his faith or die in the arena; of 
course, the latter is his lot. — 

This is one of the beat Roman stories 
in the lanjuage. 


Valerius, the brother of Valeria. He 
was in love with Horatia, but Horatia 
waa betrothed to Caius Curiatios.—White- 
head, Tis Roman Father (1741). 

Valiant | 7he), Jean IV. of Brittany 
(1838, 1604-1399). 

Valiant-for-Truth, a brave Chris- 
tian, who fought three foes at once, His 
aword waa “a right Jerusalem blade,” so 
he prevailed, but was wounded in the 

Sr 








VANBERG. 1 


059 





VANTOM. 





tram, son of Mr. Godfrey Bertram laird 
of Ellangowan. 

Vanieest Hrown, lieulenant of Dirk 
Hatteraick.—Sir W. Scott, Guy Manner- 
iny (time, George II.). 

Vanberg (Major), in Charles XII, 
by J. R. Planché (1824), 

Vanda, wife of Baldric. She is the 
apirit with the red hand, who appears in 

¢ haunted chamber to the lady Eveline 
Berenger “the hetrothed."—Sir W. 
Seott, The Detrothed (time, Henry II.). 


Van'dunke (2 sy/.), burgomaster of 
Bragea, a drunken merchant, friendly to 
Gerrard king of the begyara, and falsely 
considered to be the falher of Hertha, 
His wife's name is Margaret. (Bertha ia 
in reality the daughter of the duke of 
Brabant.) —Heaumont and Fletcher, The 
Bejpjars’ Bush (1622). 

Vandyck (The Enyjlish), William 
Dobson, painter (1610-1647). 

Vandyck in Little, Samuel 
Cooper, In his epitaph in old St. Pan- 
eras (‘hurch, he is called ‘tthe Apellés of 
his age" (1609-1672). 


Vandyck of France, Hyacinth | 


Rigaud y Roa (1659-1748), 


Vandyck of Sculpture, Antoine 
Coysevux (140-1720), 


Vanessa, Misa Father Vanhomrigh, 
a young lady who proposed marriage to 
dean Swift. The dean declined the pro- 
posal in a poetical trifle called Codenus 
and Virneses. 

Fsen, ic. Esther, and Van, the pet form 
of Vanhomngh; hence Van-essa. 


Vanity, the usher of queen Luciftra, 
—Spenser, Auery Queen, i. 4 (1590), 

Vanily, a town through which Chris- 
tian and Faithful had to pass on their 
way to the Celestial City. 
woke en erat seme One ipsa 
Ajlipon, and Legion... perceived. by the path that 
the jlevie uuale, thal their way to the city inp three 
(bis town of Vauily.— Bunyan, Pllygri;’s Progres, L (1G aL 

Vanity Fair, o fair established by 
Betilzebub, Apollyon, and Legion, for the 
gale of earthly “vanities,” creature 
comforts, honours, decorations, and carnal 
delights. It was held in Vanity town, 
anil lasted all the year round. Christian 


and Faithful had to pass through the fair, | 


which they denounced, and were con- 
eeyuently arrested, beaten, and put into 
acage. Next day, being taken before 
justice Hate- » Faithful was con- 


demoed to be burnt alive.—Bunyan, Pu- 
grim's Progress, i, (1678). 

: *,” A looking-glass is called Vanity 
Fair. 

Vanity Fair ia the name of a periodical 
noted for its caricatures signed *“ Ape," 
and set on foot by signor Pellegrini, 

Vanity Far, a novel by W. M. Thacke- 
ray (1848). iy (Rebecca) Sharp, the 
daughter ofa poor painter, dashing, selfish, 
unprincipled, and very clever, contrives 
to marry Rawdon Crawley, afterwards 
his excellency colonel Crawley, C.B., 
governor of Coventry Island. wdon 
expected to have a large fortune left him 
by his annt, Miss Crawley, but was dis- 
peer on account of his marriage with 

‘y, then a poor governess, Becky con- 
trives to live ae endour on “nothing « 
year,” gots introduced at court, and is 

ronized by lord Steyne earl of Gaunt; 
but this intimacy giving birth to a . ee 
scandal, Becky breaks up her establish- 
ment, and is reduced to the lowest 
Bohemian life. Afterwards she becomes 
the “female companion" of Jose 
Sedley, a wealthy “collector,” of Bog- 
gley Wollah, in India, Having in- 
sured his life and lost his money, he 
dies suddenly under very suspicious cir- 
cumstances, and Becky lives for a time 
in splendour on the Continent. Subse- 
quently she retires to where she 
assumes the character of a pious, charit- 
able lady Bountiful, given to all 
works, The other of the is 
connected with Amelia Sedley, daughter 
of a wealthy London stock-broker, who 
fails, and is reduced to indigence. Cap- 
tain George Osborne, the son of a London 
merchant, marrics Amelia, and old Os 
borne disinherita him. The young people 
live for a time together, when George is 
killed in the battle of Waterloo. Amelia 
is reduced to great poverty, but is be- 
friended by captain Dobbin, who loves 
her to idolatry, and after many years of 
patience and great devotion, she consents 
te marry him. Becky Sharp rises from 
nothing to splendour, and then falls; 
Amelio falls from wealth to indigence, 
and then rises, 

Vanoe, son of Merlin, one of the 


knights of the Round Table. 


Young Vaeoor of the eirdlew 
(Fame spoke the youth of Merila 
Ofer 


Tis beart's blood dyed ber samvlale red. 
Bir W. Beott, Srida/ of Triermain, i. 2 (ET 
Vantom (Jfr.). Sir John Sinelaiy 


| tells us that Mr, Vantom drank in twenty- 








VATHEK’S DRAUGHT. 





abyss of Eblis, where Vathek found him- 
self a prisoner without hope. His wife 
was Nouron’ihar, dauhter of the emir 
Fakreddin, and his mother's name was 
Catharis.—W. Leckford, Vathek (1784). 

Vathek’s Draught, ao red-and- 
yellow mixture given fim by an emissary 
of Eblis, which instantaneously restored 
the exhausted hody, and filled it with 
unspeakable delight. — W. Beckford, 
Vathek (1784). 


Vato, the wind -spirit. 

Even Zorua-ter imagined there was an evil spirit, called 
Vato, that could excite violent storms of wind.—T. Row 
[¢.¢. Dr. Pegge] Gentleman's Magasine, January, 1763. 

Vaudeville (Father of the), Oliver 
Basselin (tifteenth century). 

Vaughan, the bogie of Bromyard, 
exorcised by nine priests. Nine candles 
were lighted in the ceremony, and all but 
one burmt out. The priests consigned 
Nicholas Vaughan to the Ked Sea; and, 
casting the remaining candle into the 
river Frome, threw a huge stone over 
it, and forbade the bogie to leave the 
Red Sea till that candle re-appeared to 
human sizht. The stone is still called 
** Vaughan’s Stone.” 


Vaugirard (The deputies of). The 
usher announced to Charles VIII. of 
France, ‘‘ The deputies of Vaugirard.” 
‘“How many ?” asked the king. ‘Only 
one, may it please your highness.” 

Canning says that three tailors of 
Tooley Street, Southwark, addressed a 
petition of grievances to the House, be- 
ginning, ‘* We, the people of England.” 


Vauxhall. The premises in the 
manor of Vauxhall were the property of 
Jane Vaux in 1615, and the house was 
then called ‘‘Stockdens.” From her it 
passed through various hands, till it be- 
came the property of Mr. Tyers in 1752. 
“The Spring Gardens at Vauxhall” are 
mentioned in the Spectator asa place of 
great resort in 1711; but it is eral! 
thought that what we call ‘“ Vaux 
Gardens” were opened for public amuse- 
ment in 1730. 

—Lird W. PF Lennat, Celebrities, ee., L 101, 

Vauxhall Blice (A), a slice of meat, 
expecially ham, as thin as it is possible to 
cut it, 

Blices of pale-colonred, stale, dry ham. cst so thin thet 
a ‘Vauxhall dice” became proverdial—Lord W. P, 
Lenmoa, (wlebdritios, ete., |. vil, 

V. D. M. L. 43%, Verbum Dei manet 
m aternum (‘the Word of God cndureth 


1061 





VEHMGERICHT. 
forever”). This was the inscription of 
the Lutheran bishops in the diet of 
Spires. Philip of Hessen said the initials 
stood for V diaboli manet in episcops 

‘“the word of the devil abideth in the 
t rutheran| bishops”). 

Veal (Mrs.), an imaginary person, 
whom Defoe feigned to have appeared, 
the day after her death, to Mrs. Bargrave 
of Canterbury, on September 8, 1706. 





Veal’s Apparition Mrs.). It is 
said that Mrs. Veal, the day after her 
death, appeared to Mrs. Bargrave, at 
Canterbury, September 8, 1705. This 
cock-and.bull story was affixed by Daniel 
Defoe to Drelincourt’s book of Consola- 
tions against the Fears of Death, and such 
is the. matter-of-fact style of the narra- 
tive that most readers thought the fiction 
was a fact. 


Vee'chio (Peter), a teacher of music 
and Latin; repu to be a wizard.— 
Beaumont and Fletcher, Zhe Chances 
(1620). 

Veck (7vby), nicknamed “Trotty ;” a 
ticket-porter, who ran on errands. One 
New Year's Eve he ate tripe for dinner. 
and had a nightmare, in which he fanci 
he had mounted up to the steeple of a 
neighbouring church, and that goblins 
issued out of the bells, giving ity to 
his hopes and fears. He was roused 
from his sleep by the sound of the bells 
ringing in the new year. (See Mrc.)— 
C. Die ens, The Chinws (1844). 

Vecta, Isle of Wight Pliny (Natural 
Histury, iv. 30) calls it Vects. The 
Britons called it Guith. 


The green banks of Vecta. 
Akenside, Hymn te the Natads (1767}. 
Vegliantino [ Val.yan.tee’.no], Or- 
lando's horse.—Aniosto, Orlando ’ 
(1516). Also called Veillantif. 
Ve richt orTnx Hoty Verner, 


a secret tribunal of Westphalia, the prin- 
cipal seat of which wasin Dortmund. The 
members were called ‘‘ Free Judges.” It 
took cognizance of all crimes in the law- 
less period of the Middle Ages, and those 
condemned by the tribunal were made 
away with by some secret means, but 
no one knew by what hand. Being des- 
patched, the dead body was hung on a 
tree to advertise the fact and deter others. 
The tribunal existed at the time of 
Charlemagne, but was at ts zenith of 








VENEERING OF SOCIETY. 


were new, their pictures were sew, they themerives were 
new, they were as newly married as was lawfully com- 
patible with thelr having a bran-new baby. 

In the Veneeving establishment frum the hall chairs 
with the new cuat uf arms, to the grand planoforté with 
the new action, and upstairs again to the new 
all things were in a state of high varnish aod polish.—C 
Dickens, Our Mutual Friend, ii. (1864). 

Veneering of Society (The), 
flashy, rich merchants, who delight to 
overpower their guests with the splendour 
of their furniture, the provisions of their 
tables, and the jewels of their wives and 
daughters. 


Venerable Bede (The). Two 
accounts are given respecting the word 
e attached to the name of this 
“wise Saxon.” One is this: When 
blind, he preached once to a heap of 
stones, thinking himself in a church, and 
the stones were so affected by his elo- 
quence that they exclaimed, ‘‘ Amen, 
venerable Bede! This, of course, is 
based on the verse Lute xix. 40. 
The other is that his scholars, wishing 
to honour his name, wrote for epitaph : 
Hae sunt tn fom, 
preshyteri casa ; 
but an angel changed the second line into 
** Bede venerabilis ossa” (672-735). 

*,* The chair in which he sat is still 
preserved at Jarrow. Some years ago a 
sailor uxed to show it, and always called 
it the chair of the ‘‘ great admiral Bede.” 


Venerable Doctor (The), William 
de Champeaux (*-1121). 


Venerable Initiator (The), Wil- 
liam of Occam (1276-1847). 


Venery. Sir Tristram was the in- 
ventor of the laws and terme of venery. 
Hence a book of venery was called 
Book of Tristram. 


Of sr Tristram came all the good terms of venery and 
of hunting: and the sizes a 
horn. And of 





bh 


4 
ry 
& 
5 


to the 
Tristram, and to pray (2 bis aval. 
Of Prince Arthur, iL 138 (1470). 
Venice Glass. The drinking-glasses 
of the Middle Ages made of Venice glass 
were said to possess the peculiar property 
of breaking into shivers if poison were 
put into them. 


“Tie anid that our Venetian evystal bes 

fuxh pure antipathy to pobeun, as 

To burst. if aught of venom toeches ft. 
Byron, Tae Two Pesceri, v. | (19801. 


Venice Preserved, a tragedy by 
T. Otway (1682). A conspiracy was 
formed by Renault a Frenchman, Elliot 


; 
F 
i 


1063 


VENUS. 


an Englishman, Bedamar, Pierre, and 
others, to’ murder the Venetian senate. 
Jaffier was induced by his friend Pierre 
to join the conspirators, and gave his 
wife as hostage of his good faith. As 
Renault most grossly insulted the lady, 
Jaffer took her away, when she per- 
suaded her husband to reveal the plot 
to her father Priuli, under the promise of 
a@ general amnesty. The senate violated 
the promise made by Priuli, and com- 
manded all the conspirators except 
Jaffier to be broken on the wheel. Jaftier, 
to save his friend Pierre from the torture, 
stabbed hi:.:, and then himself. Belvi- 
dera went mad and died. 


Venice of the East, Bangkok, 
capital of Burmah. 


Venice of the North, Stockholm 
(Sweden). Sometimes Ams is 90 
called, from its numerous water-courses 
and the opulence of its citizens. It has 
290 bridges. 

They went to the city of Amsterdam, the Venice of the 
North.—7he Dragonades, 1. 

Venice of the Weat, Glasgow. 


Another element in the blazon of the Venice of the 
West ln a fish laki across the stem of the tree.—Burten, 


(See Fish Axp THE Rina, p. 836.) 


Ventid’ius, an Athenian imprisoned 
for debt. Timon paid his debt, and set 
him free. Not long after, the father of 
Ventidius died, leaving a large fortune, 
and the young man offered to refund the 
loan, but Timon declined to take it, 
saving that the money was a free gift. 
When Timon got into difficulties, he ap- 

lied to Ventidius for aid; but Ventidius, 
ike the rest, was ‘‘found base metal, 
and ‘‘ denied him.”—Shakespeare, Zunun 
of Athens (1609). 


Ventid’ius, the general of Mare An- 





y. 

*,* The master scene between Ven- 
tidius and Antony in this tragedy is copied 
from The Muids Tragedy (by Beaumont 
and Fletcher), Ventidius being the ‘‘Melan- 
tius”” of Beaumont and Fletcher's drama, 
—Dryden, All for Love or the World Well 
Lost (1678). 

Ventriloquist. The best that ever 
lived was Brabant, the engastrimisth of 
Francois J]. of France. 

Venus (Paintings of). Venus Asa- 
prom’kNnk or Venus rising from the sea 
and wringing her golden tresses, by 
Apellés. Apellés also put his name to 
a “Sleeping Venus.” Tradition says 








VERDONE. 


1065 





VERTAIGNE. 





* Wer’done (2 syi.), nephew to Cham- 
pernal the husband of Lami’ra.—Beau- 
mont and Fletcher, 7he Little French 
Lawyer (1647). 

Verdugo, captain under the governor 
of Seyovia. — Beaumont and Fletcher, 
The Piyrim (1621). 


Vere (Mr. Richard), laird of Ellies- 
law, a Jacobite conspirator. 

Miss Isabelia Vere, the laird’s daughter. 
She marries young Patrick Earnscliffe 
laird of Earnscliffe.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Black Dwarf (time, Anne). 


Vere (Sir Arthur de), son of the earl 
of Oxford. He first appears under the 
assumed name of Arthur Philipson.—Sir 
W. Scott, Anne of Geiersten (time, 
Edward l1V.). 


Ve (2 syl.), an old-fashioned 
constable and nijht-watch, noted for his 
blundering simplicity. — Shakespeare, 
Much Adv abut Nothing (1600). 


Vergiv’ian Sea, that part of St. 
George's Channel where tides out of the 
north and south seas meet. The Irish Sea 
is sometimes so called. 

. «. bears his buisterugs waves into the narrower mouth 
Of the Vergisian Sea; where meeting, from the south, 
Great Neptune a suriler thies, with their robustious shocks 
Kach other shuulder up net the griely rocks 

aytun, Polyeibion, x. (1618). 

Vergob’retus, a dictator selected 
by the druida, and possessed of unlimited 
power both in war and state during times 
of great danger. 

This temporary king or vergobretus laid down his office 
at the end ul the war.— Liseertutron on the Era ef Ossian. 

Verisopht (Lord Frederick), weak 
and silly, but far less vicious than bis 
bear-leader, sir Mulbe Hawk. He 
drawled in his speech, and was altogether 
“very soft.” Ralph Nickleby introduced 
his niece Kate to the voung nobleman at 
a bachelor’s dinner-party, hoping to make 
of the introduction a profitable invest- 
ment, but Kate was far too modest and 
virtuous to aid him in his scheme.—C. 
Dickens, Nicholas Nwkleby (1838). 


Vermilion Sea (The), the gulf of 
California. 


Vernon (Diana), niece of sir Hilde- 
brand OUprbaldistone. She has great 
beauty, sparkling talents, an excellent 
disposition, high birth, and is an en- 
thusiastic adherent of an exiled king. 
Diana Vernon marries Frank Osbaldi- 
etone. 

Sir Frederick Vernon, father of Diana, 
@ pol.tical intriguer, called ‘‘his excel- 


lency the earl of Beauchamp.” He first 
spears as father Vaughan ( Vawn)].—Sir 
. Scott, Rob Roy (time, George I.). 


Ver’olame (8 sy/.) or VeruLAM, ‘a 
stately nymph” of Isis. Seeing her 
stream besmeared with the blood of St. 
Alban, she prayed that it might be 
diverted into another channel, and her 

rayer was granted. The place where 
3t. Alban was executed was at that time 
called Holmhurst.—Robert of Gloucester, 
cironicle (in verse), 57 (thirteenth cen- 
tury). 

*,* A poetical account of this legend 
is also given by W. Browne in his Britan- 
nia’s Pastvrals, iv. (1618). 


Veron’ica, the maiden who handed 
her handkerchief to Jesus on His way to 
Calvary. The ‘‘ Man of sorrows” wi 
His face with it, returned it to the maiden, 
and it ever after had a perfect likeness 
of the Saviour photographed on it. The 
handkerchief and the maiden were both 
called Veronica (i.e. vera iconica, ‘‘ the true 
likeness”). 

*,* One of these handkerchiefs is pre- 
served in St. Peter's of Rome, and another 
in Milan Cathedral. 


Verrina, the republican who mar 
ders Fiesco.—Schiller, Fiesco (1783). 


Versailles (The German), Cassel ; 
so called from its ens, conservatories, 
fountains, and colossal statue of Herculés. 


Versailles of Poland, the 
etc., of the counts of Braniski, which now 
belong to the municipality of Bialystok. 


Versatile (Sir George), a scholar, 
pleasing in manners, warm-hea 
generous, with the seeds of virtue an 
the soul of honour, but being deficient 
in stability, he takes his colour, like the 
chamelion, from the objects at hand. 
Thus, with Maria Delaval he is manly: 
frank, affectionate, and noble; with lo 
Vibrate, hesitating, undecided, and tossed 
with doubts ; with lady Vibrate, boister- 
ously gay, extravagant, and light-hearted. 
Sir George is betrothed to Maria Delaval, 
but the death of his father delays the 
marriage. He travels, and gives a fling 
to youthful indulgences. After a time, 
he meets Maria Delaval by accident, his 
better nature prevails, and he offers her 
his hand, his heart, his title, and his 
fortune.—Holcroft, He's Much to Blame 
(1790). 


Vertaigne (2 or 8 syi.), a nobleman 








VICAR OF WAKEFIELD. 


1967 


VICTORIOUS. 





verse begine: “In good king Charles's 
golden days,” [ was a zealous hiyh- 
churchman. Ver. 2: “ When rvyal 
James obtained the crown," | found the 
Church of Kome would fit my constitu- 
tion, Ver. 3: “When William was our 
king declared," I swore to him alleyiance, 
Ver. 4: “When gracious Anne became 
our queen,” | became oa tory. Ver. 5: 
“When George, in pudding-time came 
oer,” | became a whig. And "George 


my lawful king shall be—until the times’ 


do alter.” 


1 here bead «© lomg chase after the vieer of Pray, on 
whom tha proverb. , .. Mr, Fuller, in bs Worvhdes,. . . 
take no metice of him... Tac toformed it is Blmon 
Alleyn oF Allen, who waa vicar of Gray aboot 140, and 
dicd 134.—Arome fo Hesfina, June Jd, 175. [ee 
Latter fromthe Bodleian, I. _ 100.) 

Vicar of Wakefield (Tir), Dr. 
Primrose, a simple-minded, pious clergy- 
man, with six children, He eine litt 
with a wood fortune, a handsome house, 
and wealthy friends, but is reduced to 
uller poverty without any fault of his 
own, and, being reduced like Job, like Job 
he ia restored, First, he loses his fortane 
through the raseality of the merchant 
who held it. Ilis next great sorrow was 
the elopement of his eldest danghter, 
Olivia, with squire Thornhill, His third 
was the eotire destruction by fire of his 
house, furniture, and books, together 
with the savings which he had laid by 
for his daughtera’ marriage portions. 
Hia fourth waa being incarcerated in the 
county jail by squire Thornhill for ph 
hie wife and family being driven out o 
house and home, Ilia fifth was the an- 
neuncement that his daughter Olivia 
“was dead,” and that his daughter 
Sophia bal been abducted, Ilis sixth 
was the imprisonment of his eldest son, 
George, for sending a challenge to aquire 
Thornhill. Ilis cop of sorrow was now 
full, and comfort was at hand: (1) 


Ulivia was not really dead, but was said | 


to be so in order to get the vicar to 
submit to the squire, and thus obtain hia 
releuse. (2) Lite daughter Sophia had 
been rescued by Mr. Burchell (ar William 


JiornAdt), who asked her hand in mar- | 


riage. (3) bis eon eh was liberated 
from prison, and married Miss Wilmot, 
an heiress. (4) Olivia's marn to the 
Sjuire, which was said to have been in- 
forinal, was shown to be legal and binding, 
(5) The old vicar was released, 
blished in his vicarage, and recovered a 

roof his fortune.—Goldamith, Zhe 
fwar uf Wudepeld (1766). 

*,* This oovel has been dramatized 


| contains, in chiselled ki 





several times: In 1819 it was performed 
in the Surrey Theatre; in 1825 it was 
turned into an opera; in 1850 Tom 
Taylor dramatized it; in 1878 W. G. 
Wills converted it into a drama of four 
acts, entitled (iipia, 
The real Interest off the etary Liew bry the : 
the charecter of the amlable virar 


; so Ach iin =- ast 
© poor in eerthly wision ; possessing lttle for rye 
a Boy Lis companion a ‘With enough of world! Adly vanity 
Shout hiss 00 dhew that be-shoew the yoakumme af ow 
natere; ready to be iopoed apen hy oe avd 
eS ae yet conmending, by the 
of the profligate —Leeye. Dri, Art.“ henson = 

Victor Amade'us (4 sy/.), king of 
Sardinia (1665, 1675-1732), noted for his 
tortuous policy, He was fierce, audacious, 
unscrupulous, and selfish, profound in 
dissimulation, prolific in resources, and 
a‘ breaker of vows both to God and 
man.” %InJ740 he abdicated, but a few 
months later wanted to regain the throne, 
which his son, Charles Emmanuel, refused 
to resign. On apain plotting to recover 


| the crown, he was arrested by D'Orméa 


the prime minister, and died.—R. Brown- 
ing, Ainy Victur and King Charles 


Hnunanwel, 


Victor’s Library (S.), a library of 
trashy books, especially controversial 
divinity. (See Linnany.) — Rabelais, 
Pantuy'ruel, ii, 7 (1583). 


Victoria (Donna), the young wife of 
don Carlos. Don Carlos had iven to 
donna Laura (# courtezan) the aa of 
his wife's estate; and Victoria, to get them 
back, dressed in man's apparel, assumed 
the name of Florio, and made love to 
laura, Having secured a footing, she 
introduced (iasper aa the rich uncle of 
Victoria, and Gasper persuaded Laura 
that the deeds were wholly worthless, 
whereupon Laura tore them to pieces, 
By this manceuvre the estate was saved, 
and don Carlos rescued from ruin.—Mra. 
Cowley, A Hold Strode for a Husband 
(1782). 

Victoria Tower (Tic). The tower 
of the palace of Westminster is called 
"The Monarchy in Stone,” because it 
a and heraldic 
designs, the sculptured history of the 
Briuish sovereigns, 


Victorious The), Almanzor means 


“ victorious.” ecaliph Almanzor wus 
the founderof Bagdad, 
Ragied, city of paace | 





‘VICTORY. 


Victory (7he), Nelson's ship, 
acted Spee es 
Acd on ble breset the orders shine 

Like treed wreck, 
Lytton, Cube, aL @ (LER). 
Vidar, the god of wisdom, noted for 
his thick shoes, and not unfrequently 
ealled ‘** The god with the thick shoes, 

—Scandinavian Mythology. 

Vienne, like Toledo, was ot one time 
noted for its sword-blades, 


gave Touchfaocet an eoreilent eword of o 
— hake, ae 


(ieargEntna 
Viense bisde with a golden sabbanL 
ponfea, | 46 (LES, 

Vienne (The archbishop of), chancellor 
of Burgundy.—Sir W. Scott, Anne of 
Geiersicin (time, Edward 1V.). 

Vifell, father of Viking, famous for 
being the possessor of Angurva'del, the 
celebrated sword made in the East. by 
dwarfs. Vifell won it from Bjjm Ble- 
tand, and killed with it the giant lernhds, 
whom he cleft from bead to waist with a 
single stroke. Wifell left it to Viking, 


Viking to Thorsten, and Thorsten to his | 
eon Frithjof. The hilt of the sword was | 


gold, and the blade written with runes, 


which were dull in times of peace, bntin | 
war glittered, “‘ red as the crest of acock | | 
when he fighteth.”— Tegner, Fiithyof | 


Saga, lii, (1825). 


Villalpando (Gaspar Cardilfoa de), a | 


| 
2. et OE et 


rine mente Ax Teas 


a er ao = ae Sena 







ees | ae a al 


"till the affir had ee 


emia; to-day ‘he 


ay 


pte 


ah. ih 
-_ ti 











VINCENTIO. 


1069 





VIOLET. 





not, however, killed ; 
lainy of Ludovico ie bronght to light, he 
reappears and marries Evadne.—Sheil, 
Evulhe or The Statue (1820). 


Tincentio (Don), a young man who was 
music mad, and said that the swrnmnum 
bum of life is to get talked about. 
Like queen Elizabeth, he loved a ‘crash " 
in music, plenty of noise and fury. 
Olivia de Zuniga ‘diagusted him by main- 
taining the jew ‘s-harp to be the prince of 
musical instruments.—Mra. Cowley, A 
Hdd Stroke for a Lusband (1782). 


Vingolf, the 
navian mythology. 
Ah. Ingrteorg, fore far, how ner doth stand 
Rach euthly bs tf te fend loving hearts j 

if te'dily graqped whene'er the time is ripe, 

It fehewa wililngly, and trols for thee 

A vligull ewe oe eric emmy teller, 

Tegnér, Frithjef Haga, vill (L825), 
Vi'ola, sister of Sebastian ; « young 

lmiy of Mesealine. They were twina, 
and so mach alike that they could be 
distinguished only by theirdresa, Viole 
and ber brother were shipwrecked off the 
coast of Dllvria, Viola was brought to 
shore by the captain, but her brother was 
left ti shift fur himself. Heing o 
stranger ina strange land, Viola dressed 
as a yaye, and, under the name of 
Le gos entered the service of Orsino duke 

fF Ulivria. The duke greatly liked his 
beautiful pare, and, when he discovered 
her true sex. married her.—Shakespeare, 
Twelfth Night (1602), 


Vi'ola and Hono'ra, daughters of 
general Archas *'the loval subject" of 
the great-duke of Mascovia.—Teaumont 
and Fletcher, Zhe Loyal Swhyect (1618). 


Violan'te (4 sy/.), the supposed wife 
of don Ulenrique (2 syl.) an uxorious 
Spanish ihleman. — Teaumont and 
Fletcher, The Sparniah Curule (1622). 


Vidant:, the betrothed of don Alonzo 
of Alcazar, but piven in marriage by kin, 
Selactian to Jenn’ (Mer. This cau 
Alonzo to desert am! join the eniperor of 
Narinry. As renegade he took the name 
of Diorax, and assumed the Moorish cos- 
tume. In the war which followed, he 
saved Selwstian's life, was told that 
Henrijuez had died in battle, and that 
Virlante, who never swerved from his love, 
being a voung widow, was free and willing 
to be his wife. —Dryden, Dun Sebastian 
(2694). 


Violanfe, an atlendant on the princess 
auna Comnéna the historian.—Sir W., 


paradise of Scandi- 


and when the vil- | 


Scott, Count Robert of Paris (time, 
Rufaa). 


Violante (4 syl.), wife of Pietro (2 syl.), 
and putative mother of Pompilia. Vio- 
lant provided this supposititions child 
partly to please old Pietro, and partly to 
cheat the rightful heira.—R. Browning, 
The Ring and the Book, ii. 


Violan'te (Donna), daughter of don 
Pedro, a Fortuguese nobleman, who 
intends to make her a nun; but she falls 
in love with don Felix, the son of don 
oe Ieabella (sister if don Felix), in 

er to escape a hateful marriage, takes 
refuge with donna Violanté (4 syl.), who 
“keeps the secret" close, even at the 
risk of losing her sweetheart, for Felix 
discovers that a colonel Briton calls at 
the house, and supposes Violanté to be 
the object of his visits. Ultimately, the 
mystery is cleared up, and a double 
marriage takes place.—Mra. Centlivre, 
The Wonder (1714). 


Mre. Vates(ip the las act), with Garrick ae“ deon Fel,” 
was admirable, Felit, thinking ba hes gone too far, applic 
Kime! in emthe bis Vielante. She turn from hh one 


draws awny ber chair: be follow, and she draw foriber 


ewer AL length. bey his wloolog entrmting. anal) cajols 

ing. che bs gradually lodluced to malt, ood finally makew It 

Up with file Wer eon . we wlmlrable ; 

her dignity ©aa great oral lofty, , and when by degrees 

she lade pelle ber frerern, aud her lips relased inte a emile, 
»> ethilng couk] te mers Lewely ond irresistible. , 


It bill the whole anlence, as well as the lover, ot har fest, 


—W iw Gase ein, 


Violen'ta, any young lady non- 
entity ; one who contributes nothing to 
the amusement or conversation of a party, 
Violenta is one of the dramatis persona of 
Shakespeare's All's Well that Ends Well, 
but she onlv enters once, and then she 
neither speaks nor is spoken to (1598). 


| (See Rocero, p. 839, third art.) 


Vielen'ta, the fairy mother who broughs 
up the young princess who was metamor- 
phosed inte a white eat for refusing to 
marry Migennet (o hideously missha 
fairy).—(‘omtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy Tules 
(** The White Cat," 1682), 


Violet, the ward of lady Arundel, 

he is in love with Norman the “ sea- 
captain,” who turns ont to be the son of 
lady Arundel by ber first husband, and 
heir to the title and estates.—Lord Lytton, 
The Sea-Captain (1839). 


Violet (Futher), a sobriquet of Nee 
peleon I.; also called “ Corporal Violet" 
(1769, 1404-1816, died 1821), 

*." Violets were the flowers of the 
empire and when, in 1879, the ex-em- 
ae énie was visited at Chislehurst 

y those who sympetbized with her 








VIRGIL OF THE FRENCH DRAMA. 





The). Jean Racine is so called by sir 
yalter Scott (1639-1699). 


Virgil’s Courtship. Godfrey Gobi- 
lyve told Graunde Amoure that Virgil 
the poet once made proposals to a lady 
of high rank in the Roman court, who 
resolved to punish him for his presum 
tion. She told him that if he would 
appear on a fire night before her win- 
dew, he should be drawn up in a basket. 
Accordingly he kept his appointinent, 
got into the basket, and, being drawn 
some twenty fect from the ground, was 
left there dangling till noon next day, 
the laugh and butt of the court and city. 
—Stephen Hawes, The Passe-tyme of 
Plesure, xxix. (1515). 


Virgil’s Gnat (the Culex, ascribed to 
Virgil). A shepherd, having fallen asleep 
in the open air, was on the point of 
becoming the prey of a serpent, when 
& gnat stuny him on the eyelid. The 
shepherd crushed the gnat, but at the 
same time alarmed the serpent, which 
the shepherd saw and beat to death. 
Next night, the gnat appenred to the 
shepherd in a dream, and reproached him 
for ingratitude, whereupon he raised a 
monument in honour of his deliverer. 
Spenser has a free translation of this 
story, which he calls Virgil's Guat (1580). 
(See Use or Pesta, p. 1054.) 


Virgile du Rabut (Ze), ‘The 
Virgil of the Plane,” Adam Bellaut, 
the joiner-poet, who died 1662. He 
was pensioned by Richelieu, patronized 
by the ‘Great Condé,” and praised by 
Pierre Corneille. 


Virgil’ia is made by Shakes 
the wife of Coriolanus, and Volumnisa his 
mother; but historically Volumnia was 
his wife and Vetu’ria his mother.—Cors 
lanus (1610), 


The old ‘s merriment in M tas; the 
man's meut in Menen Paget! Be he 


@ignity in Volumnia; the 


8 
iclan and military in Cortolanss ; the 


Virgil'ius, Feargil bishop of Saltz- 
burg, an Irishman. Hie was denounced 


asa heretic for peserting the existence of | 


Lixnxsy 
ais » P- 


Virgin Fort (The). Widin, in Euro- 
n Turkey, is so called by the Turks, 
use it has never been taken by as- 

sat. 


ret ie (*-784).  ( 


1071 
Virgil of the French Drama | 





VIRGINS. 


*.* Metz, in France, was so called in 
the Franco-Prussian war (1870-1). 


Virgin Knot, maidenly chastity ; 
the allusion being to the zones worn 
marriageable young women. Girls did 
not wear o xone, and were therefore 
called ‘‘ Ungirded ” (dis-cinta). 

If thou dost break her virgin knot befere 

All sanctimonious ceremonies may 

With full and holy rite be ininistered, 

No sweet shall the heaven let fh 

To make this contract grow, 
Shakespeare, The Tempest, act fv. sc. 1 (1608). 

Virgin M (The), a tragedy by 
Philip Massinger (1622). 

Vir Mary (The) is addressed by 
the following titles: — ‘‘ Empress and 
Queen of Heaven;” ‘‘ Empress and Queen 
of Angele;” ‘‘Empress and Queen of 
the Earth;” ‘“‘Lady of the Universe or of 
the World ;” ‘‘ Mistress of the World ;” 
‘‘Patroness of all Men;” ‘* Advocate 
for Sinners;" ‘‘ Mediatrix ;” ‘‘ Gate of 
Paradise ;" ‘‘ Mother of Mercies and of 
Divine Grace ;” ‘‘ Goddess ;” ‘‘ The only 
Hope of Sinners,” etc., etc. 

It is said that Peter Fullo, in 480, was 
the first to introduce invocations to the 
Virgin. 

Virgin Modesty. John Wilmot, 
earl of Rochester, was so called by Charles 
II., because of his propensity to blush- 
ing (1647-1680). 

Virgin Queen (The), Elizabeth 
(1533, 1568-1603). 

Vi Unmasked (The), a farce 
by H. Fielding. Goodwill had acquired 
by trade £10,000, and resolved to give his 





| daughter Lucy to one of his relations, in 


order to keep the money in the family. 
He sent for her bachelor relations, and 
told them his intention ; they were Blister 
(the apothecary), Coupee (the dancing- 
master), and Quaver (the singing-master). 
They all prefenre their professions to the 
young lady, and while they were quarrel- 
ing about the saperiority of their respec- 
tive callings, Lucy married Thomas the 
footman. Old Goodwill says, ‘‘I don’t 
know but that my daughter made a 
better choice than if she had married one 
of these booby relations.” 


Virgins (The Eleven Thousand). 
Ursul or Hdrsel in Swabia, like Hulda 
in Scandinavia, means ‘‘the moon,” and 
hereleven thousand virgins are the stars. 
The bones shown in Cologne as those of 
the eleven thousand virgins are those 
of males and females of all ages, and 
were taken from an old Ri man cenetery 





GP aD 


VITALIS. 


lesued from the press, never was one 
printed of worse taste than this. Byron 
wrote a quiz on it called Zhe Visiun of 
Judjment, in 106 stanzas of eight lines 
each (1820). 

Vita'lis, the pseudonym of Eric Sj3- 
berg, a Swedish poet. (Latin, vita lis, 
“‘life is a strife.”) 

Viti’sa or Witi'za, king of the 
Visizoths, who put out the eyes of Cor- 
dova the father of Roderick. He was 
himself dethroned and blinded by Rode- 
rick.—Southey, Koderick, the Last of the 
Goths (1814). 

Vitruvius (The Enylish), 
Jones (1572-1652). 





Inigo 


Vivian, brother of meng d’Agre- 


mont, and sun of duke Beviso Agremont. 
He was stolen in infancy by Tapinel, and 
fold to the wife of Sorgalant.— Auman 


Muajis DP Ayremont et de Vivian son Frére. | 


Virsan, son of Buovo (2 syl.), of the 
house of Clarmont, and brother of Aldiger 
and Malayigi.—Ariosto, Urlundo Furioso 
1516). 


Viviane (3 sy/.), daughter of Dyonas 
a vavasour of high lineage, and generally 
called the ‘ Lady of the Lake.” Merlin, 
in his dotaye, fell in love with her, and 
she imprisoned him in the forest of Bré- 
ccliande, in Brittany. Viviane induced 
Merlin to show her how a person could 
be imprisoned by enchantment without 
walls, towers, or chains, and after he had 
done so, she fondled him into a sleep under 
a whitethorn laden with dowers. While 
thus he slept, she madea ring with her 
wimple round the bush, and performed 
the other needful ceremonies, whereupon 
he found himself enclosed in a prison 
stronger than the strongest tower, and 
from that imprisonment was never again 
released.— Merlin (a romance). 

*,* Sce the next article. 

Viv'ien or Vivian, the personifica- 
tion of. shameless harlotry, or the crown- 
i result to be expected from the 
infidelity of queen Guin’evere. This wily 
wanton in Arthur's court hated all the 
knights, and tried without success to 
seduce ‘the blameless king.” 
Merlin she succeeded better, for, being 
pestered with her importunity, he told her 
the secret of his power, as Samson told 
Delilah the secret of his strength. Having 
learnt this, Vivien enclosed the magician 
in a hollow oak, where he was contined 
as one dead, ‘ lont to life, and ase, and 
mame, and fame.’-—Tennyson, Idylie of 





1073 
| the King (“ Vivien,” 1858-9). 





With | 





=z 


VOICE. 


(Sea 
ViVIANE.) 

*.* In Malory's History of Prince 
Arthur, i, 60, Nimue (7 Vinee) is the fee 
who inveiglea Merlin out of his secret: 

Ard =) upon a tine it happened (hat Merlin shewed 
to ber | Virmes| lia tock, wheres oa a great Wonder, and 

Gt by eochantment, which wnt under piona, Sa 
by ber ubltle craft al working she oumvle Merlin to go 
QOmiler thal dane, to let ber wit of ihe ooarvels there; but 
she wrought! oo there for him thet he cunme never owt, for 
el bis craft, And so ebe departed and belt him there 

Voadic'ia or Boadice’a, queen of 
the British Ie¢ni. Enraged against the 
Romans, who had defiled her two daugh- 
ters, she excited an insurrection against 
them, and while Suetonius Paulinus, the 
Roman governor, was in Mona (Anylesea), 
she took Colchester and London, and slew 
70,000 Romans, Teing at length de- 
feated by Suetonius Paulinas, she put an 
end to her life by poison (a.n. 61). 

Cowper has an ode on [oadicea (1790). 
Brave Vowdlicia made with her resolredest men 


Tu pega [eens | ipo chee wis fire muna gerard 
he piped 


TU) bewelad with the earth... et 


Drayton, Polyeliiom, vill, (LeLL 


Voadine (2 sy/.), bishop of London, 
who reproved Vortiger[n| for loving 
another man's wife and neglecting his 
own queen, for which reproof the good 
bishop was murdered. 


oe e PO Vowdina, whe reproved 
Preval Vortiger, hie king, unlawfully tat bored 
Another's wanton wife, mud wronged ils pigutin) opel, 
Yur which by thai stern prince unjustly marderéi. 
Drayton, Polywdbion, uxiv, (Joos. 


*,* This is very like the story of John 
the ‘Baptist and Herod. i 


Voice (/iwnan). The following ani- 


| mals possessed both human voice and 


articulate specch, speaking in the lan- 
cuage of their masters :— 

At Donrax, the animal which conveyed 
Mahomet to the seventh heaven, Ile not 
ooly spoke good Arabic, bat had also a 
human face, 

Anion, the wonderful horse which 
Herculés gave to Adrastos, Jt not only 
spoke pood Greek, bat both his near feet 
were those of a man. 

Batasam's Ass spoke Hebrew to Ba- 


| Iaam on one occasion,—Numd), xxii. 


The Litack Picross, one of which 
gave the responses in the temple of Am- 
mon, and the other in Doddna.—Classig 
Slory. 

The DButnwi-Hezar, which had not 
only human speech, but was oracular also, 
—Arohan Nuits (“The Two Sisters"), 

Comgapk, Fortunio’s horse, spoke with 
the voice of a man.—Comtesse D'Aunoy, 
Fairy Tales (“‘ Fortunio ”). a 

Zz 





= 


VORST. 





1075 


VULCAN'S BADGE. 





creation of all animals (including dwarfs 
and yiants, genii and devils, fairies and 
goblins), the final contlagration of the 
world, and its renewal, when it will 


appear in cclestial beauty, like the new | 


Jerusalem described in the book of the 
Revelation. 


Vorst (Peterkin), the sleeping sentinel 
at Powys Castle.—Sir W. Scott, The Be- 
truthed (time, Henry II.). 


Vortigern, consul of the Gewisseans, 
who crowned Constans king of Britain, 
although he was a monk, but treach- 
erously contrived to get him assassinated 
afterwards, and then usurped the crown. 
He married Rowen’a daughter of Hen- 
gist, and was burnt to death in a tower 
set on fire during a siege by Ambrosius.— 
Geoffrey, British History, vi. 6; viii. 1 
(1142). 


Vurtuern, a drama put forward by 
Henry W. Ireland (1796) as a newly dis- 
covered play by Shakespeare. It was 
brought out at Drury Lane Theatre by 
John Kemble. Dr. Parr declared it to 
be his opinion that the play was genuine. 
Mra Siddonsg, writing to Mra, Pivesl, anys: °° All sensible 
ns are convinced that Wurtigern ie a most audacious 
sposture, If not, I can only my that Shakespeare's 
writings are more uneyual than those of any other man ° 
(April 2, l7vé. —Fitagerald, Lives of the Kemdies, |. 338. 
Vortigern and Hengist. The 
account a the massacre of the Long- 
Knives, given by Geoffrey, in his British 
History, vi. 15, differs greatly from that 
of the Welsh Triuds (see STONEHENGE A 
Tropuy, p. 947). Geoffrey says 
Hengist came over with a large army, at 
which king Vortigern was alarmed. To 
allay this suspicion, Hengist promised to 
send back all the men that the king did 
not require, and 
meet him in conference at Ambrius (Am- 
bresbury),on May-day. 
mean time, secretly armed a number of 
his soldiers with ‘long knives,” and told 
them to fall on the Britons during the 
conference, when he uttered the words, 
‘*Nemect oure Saxas.” This they did, 
and 460 “barons and consuls” fell. It 
does not appear from this narrative that 
the slaughter was due ‘‘to the eaety 
of Vortigern,” but was wholly the wo 
of Hengist. Geoffrey calls earl of 
Gloucester ‘* Eldol,” and not ‘‘ Eidiol.” 


Vor’tigern’s Tower, like Penel’- 
epe's web, is a work ever beginning and 
never ending. Vortigern was told by his 
mayicians to build a strong tower for his 
own yvecurity ; sv he commanded his work- 


begged Vortigern to | 
Hengist, in the | 





men to build one on mount Erir, but 
whatever they built one day was wholly 
swallowed up by the earth during the 
night.—Geoffrey, British History, vi. 17 
(1142). 

Vos non Vobis. The tale is that 
Virgil wrote an epigram on Augustus 
Cesar, which so much pleased the em- 
peror that he desired to know who was 
the author. As Virgil did not claim the 
lines, one Bathyllus declared they were 
his. This displeased Virgil, and be wrote 
these four words, Sic vos nun vodis 


four times as the commencement of four 


lines, and Bathyllus was requested to 
finish them. ‘This he could not do, but 
Virgil completed the lines thus: 
Bic vos non vobie nidificatis aves ; 
Bic ros non vobis villera fertis oves ; 
Sle vos non vobis meilificatis apes; 
Bic vos non vobis fertis aratra boves. 
Not fur yourselves your nests ye build 3 
Not for yourselves ye sheep your bear ; 
Not fur yourselves your hives ye bees have filled ; 
Not for yourselves ye oxen Graw the ehare, 
Vox et preeterea Nihil. A Sp 
tan, pulling a nightingale, and fin 
only a very small dy, exclaim 
eva vo Tit deei, nai evdev AAAo (‘* Voice art 
thou, and nothing more ").—Plutarch, 
Apophtheymata Laconica, 


Vran (Bendiyeid, i.e. “‘ Blessed ”), king 
of Britain and father of Caradawe (Ca- 
ractacus). He was called ‘ Blessed” 
because he introduced Christianity into 
thie island. Vran had shared the or 
tivity of his son, and had learned 
Christian faith drring his seven years’ 
detention in Rome. 


Vran’s Caldron restored to life 
whoever was put therein, but the re- 
vivified never recovered speech. (Sea 
Mrxpea’s Kutta, p. 627.) 


century). 


Vrience (Kiny), one of the knights 
of the Round Tabie. He married Morgan 
le Fay, half-sister of king Arthos.—Sir 
T. Malory, History of Prince Arthur 
(1470). 


Vulcan’s Badge, the badge of 


: cuckoldom. Vulcan was the husband af 


Venus, with whom Mars intrigued. 








WADMAN. 
ce of this marriage, Miss Wade 


hated Gowan, his wife, the Meagleses, 
and all their friends. She enticed Tattv- 
coram away from Mr. Meagles, and the 
two beautiful young women lived to- 
gether for a time, nursing their hatred of 
man to keep it warm.—C. Dickens, Little 
Dorrit, ii. 21 (1857). 


Wadman ( Widow), a comely widow, 
who would full fain secure uncle Toby 
for her second husband. Amongst other 
wiles, she pretends to have something in 
her eye, and gets uncle Toby tw look for 
it. As the kind-hearted hero of Namur 
does so, the gentle widow gradually 
places her face nearer and nearer the 
captain's mouth, under the hope that he 
will kiss and propose.—Sterne, The Life 
and Upinions of Tristram Shandy (1759). 


Wa'gemin (3 syl.), the cry of the 
young se and lasses of the North 
American tribes, when in barvesting they 
light upon a crooked and mildewed ear 
of maize, emblematic of old age. 


And whene'er a or maiden 

Found a crooked ear in bushing, . .. 

Blighted, mildewedl. or mishapen, 

Then they laughei and mng tegether, 

Crept and limped abuut the corn-Gelde 

Mimicked Ia ir gait and 

Some uld man bent almust ble, 

Binging singly or together, 

* Wagemin, the thief of copn-Belds!° 

elluw, Hlewatha, zili (1885). 
Wagner, the faithful servant and 
constant companion of Faust, in Mar- 
lowe's drama called The Life and Death 
of Dr. Fuustus (1589) ; in Goethe's Fuust 
German, 17938) ; and in Gounod's opera 

of Fuust (1859). 


Wagner is a type of the pedant He scrifices himeslf to 


books as Faust dues tu knowledge . . . the dust of foljes 


ts his element. parchment the source of his inapiration. 
e .. Heis oneuf thuse who, in the presence of Niagara, 
would ves you with questions about arrow-beaded in- 
ecriptiuns . . . oF the origin of the Pelasgi.— Lewes. 
Wa'hela, Lot's wife, who was con- 
federate with the men of Sodom, and gave 
thein notice when a stranger came to visit 
her husband. Her siyn was smoke by day 
and tire by night. Wahela was turned into 
@ pillar of salt.—Jallalo’ddin, A/ Zamakh., 


Waiila (3 sy/.), wife of Noah, who 
told the people her husband was dis- 
traught. 

The wife of Noah [ W4ie} and the wife of Let (We 

unbelievers, and !t shall be anid 


Adela] were both cae be 
unto them at the last day, “ Enter ye into hell Gre, with 
erda, ixvi 


theses whu enter therein. —4! £ 
Wainamoi’nen, the Orpheus of 
Finnish mythology. His magie 
rformed similar wonders to that of 
heus (2 sy/.). It was made of the 
bones of a pike; that of Orpheus was 


1077 


WALBECK. 


of tortoiseshell. The ‘ beloved” of 
Wainamoinen was a treasure called Sam- 
» which was lost as the poet reached 
fhe verge of the realms of darkness ; the 
“beloved” of Orpheus was Eurydic8, 
who was lost just as the t reached the 
confines of earth, after his descent intc 
ell. 
*,* See Kalewala, Rune, xxii. It is 


very beautiful. wh, othe 7 iven ir 
ring Gould's Myths o ; Jes, 
440-444. 


Waistcoat (The H. B.), the clerical 
waistcoat. M. B. means ‘ Mark [of we] 
t.” These waistcoats are so call 
because they were first worn (in the 
middle of the nineteenth century) by 
clergymen who were supposed to have 
popish tendencies. 


Waitwell, the lackey of Edward 
Mirabell, and husband of Foible gover- 
nante of the household of lady Wishfort. 
By his master's request, Waitwell perso- 
nates sir Roland, and makes love to lady 
Wishfort, but the trick is discovered 
before much mischief is done.—W. Con- 
greve, The Way of the World (1700). 


Wakefield (Harry), the English 
drover killed by Robin Oig.—Sir W. 
Seott, The Two Drovers (time, George 

-). 


Wakeman (Sir George), physiciar 
to Henrietta Maria queen of Charles I.— 
Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the Peak (time, 
Charles IJ.). 


Walbeck (Perkin) assumed himself 
to be Richard duke of York, the younger 
eon of Edward 1V., supposed to be mur- 
dered by order of Richard III. in the 
Tower. 

Parallel Instances. The youngest son 
of Ivan IV. of- Russia was named Di- 
mitri, t.e. Demetrius. He was born in 
1581, and was mysteriously assassinated 
in 1591, some say by Godounov the suc- 
cessor to the throne. Several impostors 
assumed to be Dimitri, the most remark- 
able appeared in Poland in 16038, who 
Was recognized as czar in 1605, but 
perished the year following. 

Martin Guerre, in the sixteenth cen- 
tury, left his wife, to whom he had been 
married ten years, to join the army 
in Spain. In the eighth year of his 
absence, onc Amaud du Tilh assumed to 
be Martin Guerre, and was received by 
the wife as her husband. 
he lived with her. 


For three years 
recognized y her 
friends and relations, ut the return of 





WALDECK, 
and Armand waa en to death. 

_ The great Tich 

imposition. One Orton assumed to be sir 
_ Tichborne, and was even acknow- 
ledged to be so by sir Roger's mother; 
but after a long and patient trial it wae 
proved that the claimant of the Tichborne 
estates was no other than one Orton of 
Wapping. 

In 'Ganeas history, Jakob Rehback, a 
miller's man, nasumed, in 1545, to be Wal- 
demar, an Ascanier margraf, Jakob wus 
a menial in the service of the margraf, 

Waldeck (Murtin), the miner, and 
hero of a story read by Lovel to a picnic 

arty at the ruina of St, Rath's Priory.— 


ir W. Scott, The <Antiquary (time, | 


George WT.). 


Walde'grave (2 syl.), leader of the | 


British forces, which joined the Harons 


in ae the Soake Indiana, but he 


fell in (pt. i. m9 

Julia Waldegrave, wile of the above. 
She was bound to a tree with her child 
by some of the Indians during the attack. 
Outalissi, a Snake Indian, unbound them, 
took them home, and took care of them ; 
but the mother died. Her last request 
was that Outalissi would carry her — 
to Albert of Wy'oming, her friend, and 
beg him to take charge of it. 

Henry Waldegrave, the boy bronght by 


rome case wag & Similar 







Martin himself ery tape the illusion, ¢ 


as 7a) ‘wee 
oe of th ele tos 
aunchs “of tt ome *, 7 
era being Dr — a . 





nll ie aia 2 








WALKING-STICK. 





American states; “‘crazy beyond the reach | 


of bellebore, yet sublime and divinely be- 
nignant. ... He hed seen more of the 
earth's s, anc nad communicated 
more with the children of the earth, than 
any mao before or since."—De Qaincey 
(1856). 


W -Btick (Henry VIII's), 
the great Danish club shown in the 
armoury of the Tower, 

Walkingshaw (Miss), mistress of 
the chevalier Charles Edward the Young 
Pretender. — Sir W. Scott, Aedyauntiet 
(time, George III.). 

Wallace's Larder, the d 1 of 
Ardrossan, in Ayrshire, where Wallace 
had the dead bodies thrown when the 
garrison was surprised by him in the 
reign of Edward I. 

* Douglas's Larder” ia a similar phrase, 
meaning that horrible compound of dead 
bedies, barrels of flour, menl, whea 
malt, wine, ale, and beer, all mix 
together in Douglas Castle by the order 
of lord James Douglas, when, in 1306, the 
garrison was surprised by him, 

Wallenrode (The earl of), an Hun- 
garian crusader, — Sir W. Scott, The 
Talisman (time, Richard I.). 

Waller, in love with Lydia lady's- 
maid to Widow Green. His love at first 
wos not honourable, because his aristo- 
cratic pride revolted at the mferior social 

waition of Lydia; bot when he knew 

er real worth, he loved her, proposed 
marriage, and found that she was the 
sister of Trueworth, who had taken 
gervice to avoid an obnoxious marriage, 
—5. Knowles, The Love-Chase (1837). 

Waller's Plot, « plot organized, in 
1643, by Waller the poet, agminst the 
parliamentary party. « object waa to 
secure the king's children, to seize the 
most eminent of the parliamentarians, to 
capture the Tower, and resist all taxes 
imposed for the support of the parlia- 
mentary army. 

Walley (fichard), the regicide, whose 
etory ie told by major Bridgenorth - 
roundhead) at his dinner-table.—Sir W. 
en Peverd of the Peak (time, Charles 

-). 

Wallflowers, young ladies in a ball- 
room, who have no Y reperyey and who ait 
or stand near the walls of the ball-room, 


Walnut Tree, Fuller asys: “A 


walnut tree must be manured by beating, | 


1079 


WALTHAM'S CALF. 


or else it will not bear fruit.” Falstaff 
makea a similar remark on the camo- 
mile plant, ‘‘The more it is trodden 

the faster it grows." The almond 
some other planta are said to thrive by 
being brui 


A roman, o epeniel, and walnut tres, 
Taylor, the “ wuter-poet” (ano). 


Walnut Web. When the three 
princes of a certain king were sent to fina 
out “a web of cloth which would pass 
through the eve of a fine needle,” 
White Cat furnished the youngest of the 
three with one spun by the 
palace. 


Walter, manos of Sa)luzzo, in Italy, 
and hosband of (Grisilda, the pensant's 
daughter (q.0,).— Chaucer, 

Zales (** The Clerk's Tale,” 1888), 

*»* This tale, of course, is allegorical ; 
lord Walter takes the place of deity, and 
Grisilds typifies the true Christian. In 
all ber privations, in all her in 
all ber trials, she says to her lord and 
master, ** Thy will be done.” 

Walter (Master), “‘the hanchback,” 
guardian of Julia. A worthy man, liberal 
and charitable, frank and honest, who 
turns out to be the earl of Rochdale and 
father of Julia.—S. Knowles, The Hunch- 
back (1881), 


eee ent) ee 
1829). 

a Waitham's Calf (Ar wir ay 
sine Ape bem) it waa hungry to get 


ee Begpe pate Men An me — | 





WANTLEY. 


Knight was with this monster, whom he 


slew.—Spenser, Fuéry Queen, i. 1 (1590). 
*,* When piety (the Red Cross AntyAt) 
once forsakes the oneness of truth 
Una), it is sure to get into ‘“‘ Wandering 
Yood,” where it will be attacked by 
** Error.” 


Wantley (Dragon of), a monster 
slain by More of More Hall, who procured 
a suit of armour studded with spikes, 
and, proceeding to the lair, kicked the 
drayon in its mouth, where alone it was 
vulnerable.—Percy, ‘Reliques of Ancient 
Poetry. 

One of Carey's farces is entitled The 


Dragon of Wantley. 


Wapping of Denmark (The), 
Elsinore (3 sy/.). 


War. The Seven Weoeks' War was 
between Prussia and Austria (1866). 

The Seven Months’ War was between 
Prussia and France (1870-71). 

The Tears’ War was between 
Austria and Prussia (17 56-1763). 

The Tiurty Years’ War was between 
the protestants and papists of Germany 
(1618-1648). 

Tie Hundred Years’ War was between 
England and France (1340-1453). 


War-Cries. At Senlac the English 
had two, “God Almighty !" and “ Holy 
Cross!"" The latter was Me probably the 
cry of Harold's men, referred to 
Waltham Cross, which he held in special 
reverence. 

The Norman shout was ‘'God help 

t 9 

The Welsh war-cry was “ Alleluia!” 

Lond, sharp shrieks of “ Alleluia” blended with those 
of “Out! Out! Hely Cruase | "—Lord Lytton, Zereld. 

*.* “Ouct! Ouct!"” was the cry in 
full” flight, meaning that the standards 
were to be defended with closed shields. 

The old Spanish war-cry was “St 
Jago! and close, Spain!” 

Moant, chivalrous hhialgo ; 
Revive the cry, ' 8t. lagu! wae mi tipain 1° 
Byron, Age of Browse, vil. (1871). 

*,* Cervantes says the cry was ‘St. 
Jago ! charge, Spain!” 

Mr. Bachelor, there le a time to retreat as well as to 
advance. The cry always be, * &. lago! charge, 
Again | *_ item Quisese, IL 1, 4 (2618). 

In the battle of Pharsalia, the w 
of Pompey’s army was ‘ Hercules In- 
vitus!" and of "es army, ‘* Venus 
Vietrix!” 

War of Wartburg, « poetic con- 
teat at Wartburg Castle, in which Vogel- 


46 


1081 


WARDLE. 


weid triumphed over Heinrich vom 
Leagfellow, Waiter von der VF egeiweid. 
Ward (Artémus), Charlies F. Browne 


of America, author of His Book f Goaks 
(1865). He died in London in 1867. 


Ward (Dr.), a footman, famous for 
his ‘‘ friars’ balsam.” He was called to 
proscribe for George II., and died 1761. 

. Ward had a claret stain on his left 
cheek, and in Hogarth's famous picture, 
‘s The Undertakers’ Arms,” the cheek is 
marked gules. He forms one of the 
three figures at the top. and occupies the 

ht hand side of the s r. The 
other two figures are Mrs. Mapp and Dr. 
Taylor. 


Warden (Henry), alias Hewny Wait- 


woop, the protestant preacher. In Mary at 
Abbot he is chaplain? of the Sect, The Mex 
Avenel Castle.—Sir W he Monae. 


tery (time, Elizabeth). 


Warden (Michael), a yo man of 
about 30, well-made and good-looking, 
light-hearted, capricious, and without 
ballast. He had peen 80 ra and or 
travagant that Snitchey and Craggs to 
him it would take six years to nurse his 
property into a healthy state. Michael 

arden told them he was in love with 
Marion Jeddler, and ber, in due tim he 
married.—C. Dickens, 7) he Battle of 
(1846). 


Warden Pie (A), a pie made of 
Warden pears. 
with denta! I 
ith a ‘Gey bit of a pie. 
The Prier of Ordere Grag. 
Wardlaw, land-steward at Osbaldi- 
stone Hall.—Sir W. Scott, Rob Roy (time, 
George I.). 


Wardlaw , archbisho 
Andrew's. ott, Fawr 
Perth (time, iW. IV.). 


Wardle (4/r.), an old country gentle- 
man, who had attended some of the meet- 
ings of ‘‘The Pickwick Club,” and felt 

iking for Mr. Pickwick and his throe 
friends, whom he occasionally entertained 
at his house. 

Miss [ Isabella} Wardle, daughter of Mr. 
Wardle. She marries "Augustus Snod- 

Miss Emily Wardle, ter of Mr. 
Wardle. She marries Mr. 4 
Dickens, The Pickwick Papers (1836). 


of St. 
aid of 


Henry 


gtass, M.P.C. 








WARNING-GIVERS. 


1063 


WARNING-GIVERS. 





the house of an approaching death ; but a 
bright spark upon the burning wick is 
the promise of a letter. 

Cats on the deck of a sbip are said 
to ‘‘carry a yale of wind in their tail,” or 
to presavye acoming storm. When cats 
Gre very assiduous in cleaning their ears 
and head, it prognosticates rain. 

CATTLE give warning of an earthquake 
by their uneasiness. 

CHILDREN PLaYtna SoLpIERs on a 
road is said to forebode approaching war. 

CoaLs. A cinder bounding from the 
fire is either a purse or a coffin. Those 
which rattle when held to the ear are 
tokens of wealth; those which are mute 
an: solid indicate sickness or death. 

Corpse Canoies. The synis fatwus, 
called by the Welsh canhwyll cyrph or 
*‘corpse candle,” proynosticates death. If 
smal! and of pale blue, it denotes the death 
of an infant; if large and yellow, the 
death of one of full age. 


Captain Leather. chief magistrate of Belfast, in 1698, 
being shupwreeket on the Isle of Man. was tokd that 


wreck. —Sacheverell, /sle af Man, 15. 


Crapvg. It forebodes evil to the child 
if any one rocks its cradle when empty. 
—Amerwun Super stitwn. 

Crickets. Crickets in a house are a 
sign of good luck, but if they suddenly 
leave it is a warning of death. 

Crow (A). A crow appearing to one on 
the left hand side indicates some im- 
pending evil to the person; and flying 
over a house, furetells evil at hand to some 
ef the inmates. (See below, ‘‘ Raven.”) 

Seppe sluistra cava presdizit ab ilice cornex, 
Virgil, Zclogue, 1 

Crow1na or a Cock. Themistoclés 
was assured of his victory over Xerxes 
by the crowiny of a cock, on his way to 
Artemisium the day before the battle.— 
* Lloyd, Stratajyems of Jerusalem, 285. 

Cruwiny of a hen indicates approach- 
ing disaster. 

KATH - WARNINGS I” 
FAMILIES. 

1. /n Germany. Several princes of 
uermany have their special warning-givers 
of death. In some it is the roaring of a 
lion, in others the howling of adog. In 
some itis the tolling of a bell or striki 
of a clock at an unusual time, in others it 
is a bustling noise about the castle.— The 
Leong Library, 284 (1621). 

2. In Berin. A White Lady appears 
w some one of the household or guard 
to announce the death of a prince of 


PurvaTe 


Hohenzollern. She was duly seen on the 
eve of prince Waldemar’s death in 1879. 
8. Jn Bohemia. ‘Spectrum fominium 
vestitu lugubri apparere solet in arce 
quadam illustris familis, antequam una 
ex conjugibus dominorum illorum e vita 


decebat.’ —Debrio, Di. ’ Magica, 
92. 
4. In Great Britain. In Wales the 


corpse candle appears to warn a family 
of impending death. In Carmarthen 
scarcely any person dies but some one 
sees his light or candle. 

In Northumberland the warning light is 
called the person's taof in Cumberland 
a swarth, in Ross a in some parts of 
Scotland a fye-token. 

King James tells us that the wraith of 
&@ person newly dead, or about to die, 
ap to his friends.— Demonology, 125. 

cdgewell Oak indicates the coming 
death of an inmate of Castle Dalhousie by 
the fall of one of its branches. 

5. In Scotland. The family of Roth- 
murchas have the Bodachau Dun or the 
Ghost of the Hill. 

The Kinchardines have the Spectre of 
the Bloody Hand. 

Gartinbeg House used to be haunted by 
Bodach Gartin. 

The house of Tulloch Gorms used to be 
haunted by Maug Monlach or the Girl 
with the Hairy Left Hand. 

DeaTH-watcH (The), The tapping 
made by a small beetle called the death- 
watch is said to be a warning of death. 


The chambermaids christen this worm a ‘ Death-watch,” 
Because, like a watch, it always cries ‘‘click ;* 

Then woe be to theses in the houses who are sick, 

For sure as a gun they will give up the ghost, 

Lf the maggot cries “ click “ when it scratches a post. 


Divixine-Rop (Zhe). A forked hazel 
rod, suspended between the balls of the 
thumbs, was at one time supposed to indi- 
cate the presence of water-springs and 
precious metals by inclining towards the 
earth beneath which these things might 
be found. Dousterswivel obtained money 
by professing to indicate the spot of 
buried wealth by a divining-rod. —Sir 
W. Scott, The Antiquary. 

Docs. The howling of a dog at night 


Capitolfnus tells us that the death of 
Maximinus was p by the howlin 
of dogs. Pausanias (in his Messenia 
says the dogs brake into a fierce how! just 
before the overthrow of the Messenians. 
Fincelius says the dogs in Mysinia flocked 
together and howled just before the over- 









WARNING-GIVERS, 





throw of the Saxons in 1553. Virgil | Wiete 7 om 


the same thing occurred just previous t 
the battle of Pharsalin. 

Dogs give warning of death by serateh- 
ing on the floor of a house, 

TTERELS. 
When dottere!s do first appesg, 
i ehows that [rest le very maar; 
Dut when that dotierels do go, 
Thes you may look for heavy enow, 
Salisbury Saying, 
reams. It will be remembered that 
Joseph, the husband of Mary, was warned 
i a dream to flee from con log and when 
erod was dead he was again warned by 
a dream to ‘‘turn aside into the parts of | 
Galilee."—Matt, ii. 13, 19, 22. 

In the Old Testament, Phareoh had a 
warning dream of a famine whieh he was 
enabled to provide against.—(fen. xli. 
15-36, 

Pliarach'a butler and baker had warn- 
ing dreams, one being prevised thereby 
of his restoration to favour, and the other 
warned of his execution.—Gen, xl. 5-25. 

Nebuchadnezzar had an historic dream, 
which Daniel explained,—Dan, ii, 1, 31-45, 

Abimelech king of Egypt was warned 
by a dream that Sarah was Abraham's 
wife and not his sister.—(en, xx. 5-16, 

Jacob had an historic dream on his way 
to Haran.—(Gen. xxviii. 12-15. 

Joseph, son of Jacob, had an historic — 
dream, revealing to him his future great- | 








WARNING-GIVERS. 





1085 





WARNING-GIVERS, 





in the house will ere long lose a friend. 
Grose says it ‘ betukene a mortality in 
the family, commonly the master.” 

To break a looking-glass is prophetic 
that the persen will never get married ; 
or, if married, will lose the person wedded, 

Mauries are prophetic birds, <A com- 
mun Lincolnshire proverb is, ‘*Qne for 
eorrow, two for mirth, three for a wed- 
ding, four for death," or thus: ** One for 
eerrow, two for mirth, three a wedding, 
fuur a birth.” 

Agim ood tinderttesd! relations hire, 

fy mate nd chhaghd dod rosks, brought forth 

The secret at mui Of tbh. 

Puteyere, Macketh (10a). 

Alexander Ioaa tella na that the battle 
between the Lritish and French, in which 
the former were overthrown in the reign 
of Charles VIII., was foretold by a 
ekirmish between magpies and jackdawa. 
—Arcuna Microcusmi (appendix, 219), 

MANTLE (die Test), A boy brought 
to king Arthur's court a mantle, which no 
one could wear whe was unfaithful im 
luve, false in dimestic life, or traitorous 
to the king. If any such attempted to 
putiton, it puckered up, or hung shouch- 
ingly, or tumbled to pieces. — Percy, 
diciugnes (** The Hoy and the Mantle"). 

Mekrbons., Falling stars, celipaes, 
comets, and other signs io the heavens, 
portend the death or fall of princes, 

Meteors fright Une fied stars of heaven ; 

The pale-faeel teen beskd belly on ihe orth... 

Tie sigs furerun Ue death or fall of Line 

Shake puare, Hickard /7,, act ll oe 4 (LOOT). 

Consult Malt. xxiv. 29; Lwhe xxi, 25. 

Mick anv Itars. If a rat or mouse, 
during the night, gnaw our clothes, it is 
indicativeof some impending evil, perhaps 
even death. 

ion aotein dit lowed, digas inconaldarst) moos, oi dl 
murs curring align quargm of opjnia hoe UU, 
eet Gin penile? Ante wens Marticunn tell given, 
1) je Lael) mre helen, Gti bk) porte 
iin fare eee Ulver Qi vers qulcyueun 
tiered, ni dict deetcm pull Polen, Sea me 
Sitra ofp .. cid reli g ericiie radii, 
ple oners mispicioneen futari mall, yin prin dam. 
mut delere, Uiele till elegititer dictum of Caioula, 

uw) com ot coma a gael, gui ell @roand ome 

dueeret & ceriviies, reepeidit; non amet Dod 

vin, = ere nmin halkeidum filme, al 
erion 6 Calg relareniur,—C. aro, ivinatio, iL I, 

Mui.K-sruTs. 
armapuls promises wealth and honour; 
on the antle bespeaks modesty in men, 
cvurage in women; on the mght breast 
ina eiyn of honesty, on the left forebodes 
jeverty; on the cum promises wealth ; 
on the rizht cur, respect, on the left fore- 
tnwles dishunwur; on the centre of the 
fureiea! besjeoks treachery, sollenness, 
aod untidiness; on the right temple fore- 
showr jLat you will enjoy the fnendahip 





A wmole-spot on the | 





| of the great; on the left temple forebodes 


distress ; on the right foot bespeaks wis- 
dom, on the left, rashness; on the right 
side of the Acurt denotes virtue, on the 
left side, wickedness; on the 4nee of 
man denotes that he will have a rich 
wife, if on the left knee of a woman, she 
may expect a large family; on the lip 
ia a sign of gluttony and talkativeneas 3 
on the neck promises wealth; on the 
nos indicates that a man will be oe 
great traveller; on the thiyA forebodes 
poverty and sorrow; on the firoal, wealth 


| and health ; on the wrist, ingenuity. 


Moon (Zhe). When the “mone lies 
gsair on her back, or when her horns are 
pointed towards the zenith, be warned in 
time, for foul weather ia nigh at band.” 
—lir, Jamieson. 

Foul weather may also be «xpocted 
“when the new ssien appears with the 
old one in her arms." 


Late, late petrean | ow the new moons 
Wi the sald mioone in ber anne, 
Ace I fear, | fair, my deir muater, 
That wo will come to harme. 
The ballad of oie Patriot apence 
To see a new moon for the first time 
on the right hand, and direct before you, 
it lucky; but to see it on the left band, 
or to turn round and see it behind you, is 
the contrary. 
If you first see a new moon through 


| glass, your wish will come to pass, 


Naits, A while apot on the thumb 


| promises o present; on the index finger 


denotes a friend ; on the /ony finger, u foe ; 
on the fiird finyer, a lotter or aweetheart ; 
on the /ittle finjer, w journey to go. 

In America, white spots on the nails 
are considered lucky. 

NOCKGENAN'S LiRACEKLET gave warn- 
ing of poison by a tremulous motion of 
the stones, which increased as the poison 
approached nearer and nearer.—Comte de 
Laylus, Vrientul Jules (*‘The Four Talis- 


| mana"). 


UraL turns pale at the approach of 

Len. 

Ow .s. The screeching of an owl fore- 
bodes calamity, sickness, or death. On 
one occasion an owl strayed into the 
“en and the Romans, to avert the 
evil, underwent a formal lustration. 

The Roman senate, when witha 
The cliy walls on owl wae meen, 
Did cumee tieeir ¢ with iustratioms .. . 
The Aind-feoe) prodigy f Fort. 
Matler, Audios, LL it. TOT (ed, 

The death of Augustus waa presaged 
by an owl singing [screeching] upon the 
top of the Curia, —Xijhilinus, i 





Oe) 





WARNING-GIVERS. 


1087 





WARWICK, 





gurely gain the victory.—Plutarch, Lives 
{** Themistoclés ”). 

Soot on Bars. Flakes of sheeted 
soot hanging from the bars of a grate 
foretell the introduction of a stranger. 
Nor les sincsed have I quiescent « watched 

fulow and lonely - - some stranger's near 
Cowper, Winter Evening. 


Soruta's Picture, given to Mathias, 
turned yellow if the giver was in danger 
or in temptation ; and black if she could 
not escape from the danger or if she 
yielded to the temptation.—Massinger, 
The Picture (1629). 

Sripens indicate to gold-searchers 
where it is to be found. 

Srau's Hory is considered in Spain to 
give warning of an evil cye, and to bea 
safeguard against its malignant influences. 

Sroxe. To find a perforated stone is 
a presage of good luck. 

Swatvtows forecast bad weather by 
nee low, and fine weather by flying 

ich. 

TRETH WIDE APART Warm a person to 
seek his furtune away from his native 
place. 

THUNDER, Thunder on Sunday por- 
tends the death of some learned man, 
judge, or author; on Monday, the death 
of women; on Tuesday, iplents of grain ; 
on Wednesday, the death of harlots, or 
bloodshed ; on Thursday, plenty of sheep, 
cattle, and corn ; on Friday, the death of 
some yreat man, murder, or battle; on 
Saturday it forebodes pestilence or sick- 
ness.—Leonard Digges, A Proynostica- 
tum Everlustiny of Ryyht G Effecte 

1556), 

( Tottixne Bette You will be sure of 
tooth-ache if you eat while a funeral bell 
is tolling. He warned in time by this 
Aurcrican superstition, or take the con- 
seuuences, 

"EIPSKY, a spring in Yorkshire, called 
‘* prophetic,” vives duc warning of a dearth 
by nsiny to an unusual height. 

VENETIAN Gass. If poison is put 
into liquor contained in a vessel made of 
Venetian plass, the vessel will crack and 
fall to pieces. 

Warning Stones. Bakers in Wilt- 
shire and in some other counties used to 
puta certain kind of pebble in their ovens, 
to yive notice when the oven was hot 
enough for baking. When the stone 
turned white, the oven was fit for use. 

Waren or JKALousy (The). This 
wan a beverage which the Jews used to 
assert no adult:rese could drink without 


barsting.— Fieve Philosophical Questions 
Answered (1653). 

White Ross (The). A white rove 
gave assurance to a twin-brother of the 
safety or danger of his brother duri 
his absence. long as it flourished an 
remained in its pride of beauty, it indi- 
cated that all went well, but as it droo 
faded, or died, it was a warning o 
danger, sickness, or death.— Zhe 7 
Brothers. 

Witcn Hazec, A forked twig of witch 
hazel, made into a divining-rod, was sup- 
posed, in the fifteenth, sixteenth, and 
seventeenth -enturies, to give warning of 
witches, and to be efficacious in discove>- 
ing them. 

Vorus. If, on your way to a sich 
permon, vou pick up a stone and find no 
iving thing under it, it tells you that the 
sick person will die, but if you find there 
an ant or worm, it presages the patient's 
recovery. 

Si visitans agrum, Apidem inventum per viarm attollat, 
@ mb lapide inveniatur vermis se movens, aut formica 
vivens, faustum omen est, et Indicium fore ut ager con 
valescat, si nibd invenitur res est conclamata et corte 
mors. —Buchardus, Drecretorum, 0. xix. 

Warren (Widow), “twice married 
and twice a widow.” A coquette of 40 
aping the airs of a girl; vain, weak, an 
detestable. Harry Dornton, the banker's 
son, is in love with her daughter, Sophia 
Freelove ; but the widow tries to win the 
young man for herself, by advancing 
money to pay off his friend's debts. When 
the father hears of this, he comes to the 
rescue, returns the money advanced, and 
enables the son to follow his natural in- 
clinations by marrying the daughter 
instead of the designing mother. 

A girlish, old who would rob her daughter, 
and leave her husband's sou to rot in ad that she 
might marry the first fool she ovald find —Hoilcroft, The 
Read to Ruin, v. 2 (1793). 

Wart (Thomas), a poor, feeble, ragged 
creature, one of the recruits in the army 
of sir John Falstaff.—Shakespeare, 2 
Henry IV., act iii. ac. 2 (1598). 


Warwick (The earl of), a 
by Dr. T. Franklin. It is Aye tant Saye 
and death of the ‘‘ king maker" (1767). 


Warwvck (The House of). Of this house 
it is said, ‘‘ All the mcn are without fear, 
and all the women without stain.” This 
brag has been made by many of our noble 
farmlies, and it is about as complimentary 
as that paraded of queen Victoria, that 
she is a faithful wife, a good mother 
and a virtuous woman. It is to be hoyed 
that the same may be said of most of 
subjects also, 








WATER. 


1089 WATLING STREET OF THE SKY. 








molestation. The two dykes are in 
some places as much as three miles 
asunder, but in others they approach 
within 500 yards of each other. 

Archdeacon Williams says that Offa's 
Dyke was never a line of defence, and 
that it is certainly older than Offa, as 
five Koman roads cross it. 

There Is a famous thi 

Called Offa's Dy ke, that reacheth far tn length. 

All kinds of ware the Danes might thither bring; 

It was free ground, and called the ritons' strength, 

Wat's Dyke, likewise, about the ame was set, 

Betwren which two buth Danes aud Britons met 

Churchyard, Worthiness of Wales (1587). 

Water ( Zhe Dancin)), a magic spring 
of water, which ensured perpetual you.h 
and beauty.—Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy 
TLules (‘Chery and Fairstar,” 1682). 

Water (The Yellow), a magic spring of 
water, which had this peculiarity: “If 
only a few drops of it were placed in a 
basin, no matter how large, they would 
fill the basin without overflowing, and 
form a fountain.—Arabian Nights (“The 
Two Sisters"). 

Water-Poet (The), Jonn Taylor, 
the Thames waterman (1580-1654). 


Water Standard, Cornhill. This 
was the spot from which miles were 
measured. It stood at the east end of 
the street, at the parting of four ways. 
In 1582 Peter Morris erected there a 
water standard for the purpose of supply- 
ing water to Thames Street, Gracechurch 
Street, and Leadenhall; and also for 
cleansing the channels of the streets 
towards Bishopsyate, Aldgate, the Bridge, 
and Stocks’ Market.—Stow, Survey of 
London, 459 (1598). 

*,* There was another water standard 
pear Oldlbourne. 

Any cubstantial building for the supply 
of water was called a stand wd; hence 
the Standard in Cheap, made in 1430 by 
John Wills, mayor, ‘* with a small stone 
cistem.” Our modern drinking-fuun- 
tains are ‘* standards.” 

Water-Wraith, the evil spirit of 
the waters. 


By this the storm grew lond apace, 
The water-wraith was shricking. 
Camptell, Lord Ulin s Daughter, 

Water from the Fountain of 
Lions, a sovereign remedy for fevers of 
every kind.—druban Nights (‘‘Abmed 
and Pari-Banou ”). 

Water made Wine. Alluding to 
the tirst miracle of Christ, Richard Cra- 
shaw says (1643): 

The consrivus water asw its God, and bimbed. 


Water of Jealousy (The). This was 
a beverage which the Jews used to affirm 
no maeltite Phudosop hioat paver burst- 
ing. — Five , uestions An- 
swered (1653). 

Water of Life. This water has the 
property of chanying the nature of poison, 
and of making those salutary which were 
most deadly. A fairy gave some in a phial 
to Florina, and assured her that however 
often she used it, the bottle would always 
remain ful]l.—Comtesse D’Aunoy, Fairy 
Tales (‘* Florina,” 1682). 


Water of Youth. In the Basque 
legends we are told of a ‘‘ water,” one 
drop of which will restore youth to the 
person on whom it ia sprinkled. It will 
also restore the dead to life, and the en- 
chanted to their original form. This 
legend is widely spread. It is called 
‘‘the dancing water" in the tale called 
The Princess Fuirstar, by the comtesse 
D’ Aunoy (1682). 


Waters ( Futher of), Irawaddy in Bar- 
mah. The Mississippi in North America. 


Waterman (Zic), Tom Tug. It is 
the title of a ballad opera by Charles 
Dibdin (1774). (For the plot, see WILEL- 
MINA BUNDLE.) 

Watkins ( William), the English at- 
tendant on the prince of Scotland.—Sir 
W. Scott, Fuir Mad of Perth (time, 
(Henry 1V.). 

Watkin’s Pudding (Sir), a famous 
Welsh dish ; 80 named from sir Watkin 
Lewis, a London alderman, who was very 
fond of it. 


Watling Street and the Fosa. 
The vast Roman road called Watling 
Street starts from Richborough, in Kent, 
and, after passing the Severn, divides into 
two branches, one of which runs to 
Any lesey, and the other to Holy Head. 

‘The Foss runs north and south from 
Michael's Mount, in Cornwall, to Caith- 
ness, the northern extremity of Scotland. 
Those two mighty ways, the Watling and the Fos... 
... the Ant doth hokl her 


way 
From Dover to the farth'st of [ruitful Anaivesy 3 
The second, south and nurth, from Michael's utmost 


mount 

To Caithnem, which the farth'st of Scotland we account, 

Drayton, Po/yoldton, xiil (1613). 
Becunda via principalis dicitur "' Wateli te,” ten- 
dens ab curv austro in sephyrum septentrionalem, In- 
cipit enim a Dovaria, tendens per medium Cantina, jute 
London, per & Altanum, Dunstaplum, Stratiordiam, 
Towcestriam, Lideburne, per montem Gilbertl -uxte 
Balopiam, deinde per Rtratton et per medium Wallia, 

—Leland, /tineraery ef Engiand (1712) 


eq ue 
Watling Street of the Sky (Zhe), 
ky 


the Mil ay. ‘ 
A 






‘WATTS. — : 

Watts (Dr. Jeanc), It is said that 
Isanc Watts, being beaten by his father 
for wasting his time m wnulog Verses, | 
exclaimed : 


O lather, pity on me take, 
Aud | will bo more reras maka. 


Ovid, the Latin poet, is credited with « 
similar anecdote : ) 

Wauch (Mansie), fictitious name of 
D. M. Moir, author of The Life of Manwe 
Wawh, Tudor im Dalkeith, written by 
himself (1828). 


Waverley, the first of Scott's histo- 
rical novels, published im 1614, The 
materials are Highland feudalism, mili- 
tary bravery, ra description of natural 
scenery. There is a fine vein of humour, 
and a union of fiction with history, The 
chief characters are Charles Edward the 
Chevalier, the noble old baron of Brad- 
wardine, the simple faithful clansman 
Evan Dhu, and the poor fool Davie Gel- | 
latley with bis fragmenta of song and | 
ecatlered gleams of fancy. 

Soo did pot prefix his name to Wererlay, fra 

segue — 






= q 
: j - - — e 
q a ‘<¢€é " . 
' A 2 ; = . 
= i \ - * = = | = a . 
, 4 . = = ; 7 - 4 . | 
| - = i a = f = Z —_ 
a | i ua = = ‘ \ = fs e ¢ 
: 4 > = = = > . 1S, 
} , ~ Za a A 
= 4 ; = 
¢ = = q ] : a ’ : . 
= = a = re Bs | 
> : i . a r = | - 
= : ‘ = ; : . 
- r » »- r _ —-_ 1 }. ¢ : 
~— ‘ 5 = a 7 ré ae ' | = 
7 - = Fi - - : Nf 
: | : i - ~ = ig — = i | | > e “a 
i : = - 3 ‘ ri 7 | 
= z - . = | — . , . : : a i 4 : , 
= - = _ | F . 2 J ¢ a" ail 
= : c 4 ~ if 
1 : : 


Dei i might comproniise ble 
(Cliaielers, Sng kal Literature, bl ) 
Waverley (Captain Edward) of Wavert- 
ley Honour, x7 hero vir thr — 
by his name. Being gored by a stag, he 
resigned his comasasion, and proposed 


mAh 





i 





WEALTH MAKES WORTH. 





Wealth makes Worth. 


Aman of wealth t dobhed a man of worth, 
Pops, /mitution af Morac, vi. 0 (17M. 


Et genoa, of formam, regina Porunla donat, 
Ac ete Kunin to deooret Buadela Verusya, 
Horm, Eyalst., wh 
Fesuty amd wish money com betow, 
Vemus ial wil ty wealth thelr booourn throw, 
ECE 
Wealtheow (2 sy/.), wife of Hroth- 
gar king of Denmark. 
Wealtheve went forth ; milndhfal of grisly of 
el the men in the luall Pesoliner ty aed iret 
alla Diem emg aw Albee gaurd ewe oll Lo ap onl « The 
fer sry of the Helmings thew went alsoulewvery part . che 
gere brewers veers wold! the oqyertmilly ‘tant 
sie it Guess hung rated with rings) . 
mend cup ioe Coerly, . . aid than kel Cush Chat beer will 
Wes arc: oes pall, tha! sneer! of Deomark was a cuarentes 
hae! Cre — deere! (Ange ao oper, lh center). 

Wealthy (Sir William), a retired City 
merchant, with one son of prodiyal pro- 

nsities. In order to save the young man 
from ruin, the father pretends to be dead, 
disvuises himvelf as a German baron, and, 
with the aid of coadjutora, becomes the 
cluef creditor of the voung scapegrace, 

Sir teonpye Wealthy, the son of sir 
William. After linving run out his 
money, Loey is brought te him as a cour- 
tezan; but the young man is so moved 
with her manifest innecenwe and tale of 
sorrow that he places her in an asylum 
where her distressea would be sacred, 
“and her indicent beauty would be 
guarded frum tem ptalion.” Afterwards 
slic becomes his wife, 

Mr. Jichord Wealthy, merchant, the 
brother of sir William; choleric, straight- 
forward, and tvrannical, He thinks 
Obedience is tieth law and eoapel, 

Lucy Woeulthy, daughter of Richard, 
Tier father wants her to marry a rich 
tradesman, and, as she refuses to do 
a, turns her out of doors, She is 
brenicht te gir Georce Wealthy as a fille 
depo’? tut the voung man, discerning 
ber innecence and imalesty, places her 
ineale keeping. Tle ultiniately finds out 
tliat she i iis cousin, and the two 
parents rjiice In consuMMaLing «a union 
sv entirely in accordance with beth their 
wishes.—Foote, Je Minor (1760). 


Woary-all Hill, above Glaston- 
bury, to the leftof Tor Lill This spat 
ix the traditional landing-place of Joseph 
of Anmathea; and here is the site 
(marked by a stone bearing the letters 
A. 1. a,b. ¥XXx1.) of the holy thirn. 

When the auint arrived at (Glastonbury, 
weury with bis long journey, he struck 
bis sta!) inte the preund, and the staff 
became the famous thorn, the site being 
called ‘' Weary-all Hill.” 





bore forth the 


1091 


WEDDING DAY. 


Weath rt Sig oy , & eal 
officer.—Sir oo hate (time, 
William IJT.). 


Weaver-Poet of Inverary (The 
William Thom (1799-1850). anh 


Wea'sel (Timothy), attorney-at-law 
at Lestwithiel, employed as the shoal of 
Penruddock. — Cumberland, I'he 
Fortune (1778). 


Web in a Millet Seed (The). 
This was a web wrapped in a millet seed. 
It was 414) yards lung, and on it were 

inted all sorts of birds, beasts, and 

shes; fruits, trees, and plants; rocks and 
shells; the sun, moon, and stars; the like- 
nesses of all the kings and queens of the 
earth, and many other curious devices. 

The jeiore (ook cot of a ruly bes « walpul, which he 
racked... cm mw inskls bio sal! hel oe wae 
he cracted leo, and (aia! like kernel of was. 
perked the bers), end diererel a corn of when, ‘ed le 
the when grain of mullet, which coutelned the web,— 
Contes Lb Ado, fairy jal (“The White Gat,” bie), 

Wedding. The fifth anniversary is 
the Wieden Weel, because on that 
occasion the suitable offerings to the wife 
are knick-knacks made of wood. 

The twenty-fifth anniversary is called 
the Sitrer Wheddin;, because the woman 
on this occasion should be presented with 
a silver wreath. 

The fiftieth anniversary is called the 
Gudea Weddin, because the wreath or 
fluwera presented should be made of gold. 
Io Germany, the marriage ceremony 
was repeated on the fiftieth anniversary. 
In 1879 William, king of Prussia and 
emperor of Germany, celebrated his 
*polden wedding.” 

The scventy-lifth anniversary is called 
the Juwnomd Weddiny, because the correct 
present tu the wile of such a standi 
would be o diamond, This period is 








| Shortened into the sixtieth anniversary, 


Mr. T. Morgan Owen, of Hronwylf 
hyl, says there are in Liannefyd 
churchyard, near Denbigh, the two fol- 
lowing inscriptions :— 

(1) lobn and Elin Owen, married 1579, 
died 1659, Announced thua: 


Whom oo¢ nuptial bed dhi containe for SO years do 
here remains, Mere lieth tbe ieelp of Din, wife of lobe 
ihren, @he died) the thulay of March, Gee Here lieth i 
beady cl Jubn Uren, Whe died the GJ day of Angusl, 1608. 

(2) Katherine and Edward lones, mar- 
ried 168, died 1708 Announced thus; 

They lived smicsbly t -griber in matrimany 70 yearn 
Hera | the tealy oo. Koftterins ~yelenntl tha wile af 
Eiwanl jones who was buried the “7 lay of May, Ir sy 
el i) peere, Mere the beady of Eel werd lone, eo of Jo 
ay Teas al, iat, perth, whe wad Larios tie bd dey of May, 
Li, mae bel pours —Jomen, July 4, 1570 (weekly edition). 


Wedding Day (7c), a comedy by 








WELLER. 


rich dowager is about to marry his 
nephew, and, in order to bring abuut this 
desirable consummation, nol only pays 
all his delta, but supplies him liberally 
with ready money. lhinyg thus freed 
from delit, and having sown his wild oats, 
young Wellborn reforma, and lord Lovell 
gives him a “ company.”"—Massinger, A 
New Way te Pay Uld Debts (1625). 


Weller (Samvnel), boots at the White 
Ilart, and afterwanls servant to Mr. 
Pickwick, to whom he becomes devotedly 
attached. Wather than leave his master 
when he is sent to the Fleet, Sam Weller 
ucts his father to arrest him for debt. 
Jiis fun, hia shrewdness, his comparisons, 
hia archness, and his cunning on behalf 
of hie moxter are unjaralleled. 

funy Weller, father of Sam; a cosach- 
man of the old school, who drives a coach 
between London and Dorking. Naturally 
pertivy in size, he becomes far more 40 in 
his prent-coat of many capes, Tony 
wreara top-loots, and lis bat has a low 
crown and broad brim. Qn the slare- 
lnex he is a kin, claewhere he is a mere 
greenhern. lle niarnes a widow, land- 
lady wf the Marquis of Grol, and hia 
emstant advice to his son is, “Sam, 
leware of the widders."—C, Dickens, 
The Pickwick l’apers (1836). 


Wellington of G>mblers (The). 
Lord Rivers was called in l'uris Le Wel- 
lin jton des Jumeurs, 


Wellington’s Horse, Copenhagen. 
It died at the ave of 27. 


Wemnmick, clerk of Mr. Jazgers the 
lawver. Ile lived at Walworth Wem- 
mick was a dry man, rather short in 


stature, With wyoare, Wooden fave, ‘There | 


were seme niarks 1 the face which might 
have Leen dioiples if the material had 
been aefter.” lis linen was frayed; be 
wore fuur marming rings, and a brooch 
Pep MeScihine o lady, a Wee] inp willow, 
and acmercy om. Iliseyes were amall 
and vlitiering ; lie Lipa small, thin, and 
mottled ; his ave was between 40 and 0) 
vor, Mr. Wemmick wore bie hat on 
the hack of hie head, and lookel straight 
lwfore lin. a= if nothing was worth look- 
ing at, Mr. Wemmieck at home and Mr, 


Wench an lia office were two distinct 
laings, At home, be was bia “own 
onvineer, him owt carpenter, his own 


jiuiinler, his own gardener, his own Jack- 
of-all-trades,” ond had furtitied bis |ittle 
wooden house like commodore Trunnion 
(g.e.). Us father lived with him, and 





| from the weather by an lugeuious litzle 








WERE-WOLF. 


he called him “The Aged.” The old 
man was very deaf, but heated the poker 
with delight to tire off the nine o'clock 
signal, and chuckled with joy because 
he could hear the bang. The func had 
a ‘‘real flagstaff,” and a plank which 
crossed a ditch some four feet wide and 
two feet deep was the drawbridge. At 
nine o'clock p.m. Greenwich time the 
gun (called ‘‘ The Stinger") was fired. 


It wae protected 
lia con. 


trivance in the nature of an unbrelia —C, Great 


bapect.stions, 2xv. (1880). 

(This is a bad imitation of Smollett. 
In commodore Trunuion such a conceit is 
characteristic, but in a lawyer's clerk not 
so. Still, it might have passed as a good 
whim if it had been original.) 

Wenlock (Wild Wenlock), kinsman of 
sir Hugo de Lacy constable of Chester. His 
head is cut off by the insurgents.—Sir W. 
Scott, Zhe Betrothed (time, Henry I.). 


Weno'nah, mother of Hiawatha and 
dauxhter of Noko’mis. Nokomis was 
swinging in the moon, when some of her 
companions, out of jealousy, cut the 
ropes, and she fell to ea ‘SKike a 
falling star.” That night was born her 
tirat child, a daughter, whom she named 
Wenonah. In due time, this lovely 
dauyhter was wooed and won by Mudje- 
kee’wis (the west wind), and became the 
mother of Hiawatha. The false West 
Wind deserted her, and the young mother 
died. 

Fair Nokomis bore a ter, 
And she called ber name Wenonah, 
Longfellow, Hiswatha, tl (18am 

Wentworth (fru), the beau-ideal 
of female purity. She was educated in 
strict seclusion. De Courcy fell in love 
with her, but deceived her; whereupon 
she died calmly and tranquilly, elevated 
by religious hope. (See Zatna.)—KRev. 
C. R. Maturin, Women (a romance, 1822). 


Wept. ‘‘We wept when we came 
into the world, and every day tells us 
why.”—Goldsmith, Zhe Goud-Natured 
Aan, i. 1 (1768). 


Werburg (‘t.), born a princess. By 
her prayers, she drove the wild geese 
from Weedon. 


Bhe falleth in ber way with Weedon, where, ‘tis ald, 

Bt Werburg, princely born—a nunt religivus uiaid— 

From tose pocultar tiekia, by prayer the wild goeme druvé, 
Drayton, Polye’ bien, xuith (16.3), 


Were-Wolf (2 sy/.), a man-wolf, a 
man transformed into a wolf temporanly 


| or otherwise. 







Followed the were walls bare | Bivens. "Wifeewikk 
Longtcllow, The Sieieton in deme, 6] SE eee 


Werner, the said to have been | 
crucitied at Bacharach, oy the Rhine, by | 
the Jews. (See Huon or Lixcous,) 


In that ancient town of Dachurach. 
Longlellaw, The tohien Legend (REI. 


Werner or Kruitzner (count of | 
Siegendorf), father of Ulric. B 

driven from the dominions of hia father, 
he wandered re for nave ees “—S | 
beggar, hunted from place | 
ae Stral’enheim. At length, Stra- | T 
lenheim, travelling through Silesia, was | ¢ 
rescued from the Oder by Gabor (alas 
Ulric), and was lodged in an old tumble-— 
down palace, where Werner had been | 
lodging for some few days. Here Wer- 
ner robbed the count of a roulean of gold, 





= 


—_—= 


and next day the count was murdered by | » called Torderuk: ~~ her pth 
Ulne (without the conmivance or even anata) Wek 664m 
knowledge of Wermer). When Werer aa titna oe 
enceeeded to the rank and wealth of Sear Saat & csi ee 


count Siecendorf, he became aware that 
his son Ulric was the murderer, and de- 
nounced him. Ulric departed, and Wer- | ‘Aci Gy 
ner said, ‘The race of Sieyendorf is past.” 
—Pvron, Werner (1821). 

(This drama is borrowed from “ Kruitz- 
ner or The German's Tale,” in Miss H. 
Lee's Cunterbury Yules, 1797-1805.) 


Nera tba tews Teardernalh ed y 
Wo bewven coed Mie eet 
] on ae irk 
Wessex, Devonshi Rentanaihien 
Wiltshi re, and Ales Sed alte | 
‘s ; ee tae, 


of der, and Ini | 
oephew, were tint to Saou todas 












WESTERN. 


1095 


WHETSTONE COT, ETG 





chant, and accidentally encountered in | 


the street Miss Louisa Dudley, with whom 
be fell in love. Louisa, with her father 
captain Dudley, and her brother Charles, 
all in the yreatest poverty, were lodging 
with a Mr, Fulnier, a small bookseller, 
Beleour pets introduced, and after the 
usual mistakes and hairbreadth escapes, 
‘makes her his wife, 


Weatern (S;juwire), a jovial, fox-hunt- 


ing couutry pentleman, supremely igno- | 


rant of book-learning, very prejudiced, 
céllish, irascible, and countrified; bat 
shrewd, good-natured, and very fond of 
his daughter Sophia, 

Pollip, earl of Pembroke and Montgemery, woe in 
Character a syjuire Western, choleric. bniistercm, (iterate, 
ate ahewrd, and cowardly,—(slurne, Secret Mistery, 

Squire Western stands alone; imitated from po prof 
Oye, aod i hel on bilities plete olf ~ grees 
preltelice, bre coilllty, dd rustictiy, United will tal 
fhiredore cmntiiithinal gol honour, and ap in 
funtive affection fur bie daugbier—ierge Brit, APL 

W isla dmg. * 

Siphia Western, daughter of esquire 
Western, She becomes engaged to Tom 
dunes the foundling. — Fielding, Jom 
dunes (1749), 

There bow are Go ejiire Westerns, we of abd y 
And mur Bijrbin= ana mort eo enupiithe, 
Baal Gar aa Ghesis jai | ce Gabrer bo betel 
Liyron, iow of, wild. 110 (ea), 


Westlock (./oln), = quondam pupil 
of Mr. Pecksniff (‘architect and land 
surveyor"). Julin Westhock marries 
Kivth, the sister of Tom Pinch,.—C, 
Dickens, Murtin Chuselewit (1843), 


Westminster Abbey of Den- 
mark ( ic), the cathedral of Roeskilde, 
some sixteen miles weat of Copenhagen, 


Westmoreland, according to fable, 
js West-Mar-land. Mar or Marias, son 
of Arviricus, waa king of the Intish, 
aril overthrew Rmdric the Scythian in the 


north-weet of Enclant, where he set op | 


a stone with an inscription of this victory, 
“ith of which remain to this day.”"— 


Gevfrey, Lrifesh Histury, iv. 17 (1142). 


Westward Hoe, a comedy by 
Thomas Dekker (1607). The Kev. harles 
Kingsley published a novel in 1854 en- 
tithed Wreateund Mol or The Voyopes and 
Adenturea of Sir Amyas Lenh m the 
Reijn of Qicen Elizulwth, (See East- 
wai [lox.) 


Wetheral (Stephen), surnamed 
“Stoplen Steelheart,” m the troop of 
lon! Waldemar Fitzurse (a baron fullow- 


ing proce John).—sSir W. Scott, rank | 


(time, Richant J.). 


Wetherell (Elizabeth), Miss Susan 
Warner, anthoress of The Wide Wide 
World (1852), Queechy (1853), etc, 

Wetzweiler ~ or Le Gloricux, 
the court jester of Charles “the Bold 
duke of Burgundy.—Sir W. Scott, Quen- 
tim /éurward (time, Edward IV.). 


Whachum, journeyman to Sid- 
rophel. He was Richard Green, who 
published a pamphlet of base ribaldry, 
called //udibras in a Snare (1667), 
ven an la ees 

Hight Whachom. 
6. Butler, Pudibres, IL 3 (1060. 

Whally Eyes, tic. Whule-lite eyes, 
Spenser says that ‘*Whally eyes ore o 
aign of jeslousy."—Fuery Queen, I. iv. 
24 (1590). 

Whang, an avaricious Chinese miller 
who, by great thrift, was pretty well off, 
but, one day, being told that a neighbour 
had fiund a pot of money which be bad 
dreamt of, began to be dissatisfied with 
his slow gains and longed for a dream 
also, At length the dream came. He 
dreamt there was a wage. pet of gold 
concealed under his mill, and set to work 
to find it. The first omen of success was 
a broken mug, then a house-tile, and at 
length, after much digying, he came to a 
stone so large that he could not lift it. 
He ran to tell bis luck to his wife, and the 
two tugged at the stone, but as they re- 
moved it, down fell the mill in utter ruina, 
—Goldsmith, A Citizen of the World, lex, 
(1759). 

What Next? a farce by T. Dibdin, 
Colonel Clifford meets of Brighton 
two cousins, Sophia and, Clarissa Touch- 
wood, and falls in love with the latter, 
who is the sister of major Touchwood, 
but thinks her Christian name is Sophia, 
and 40 is accepted by Sophia's father, who 
is colonel Touchwood. Now, it so hap- 
pens that niajor Touchwood is in love 
with his cousin Sophia, and looks on 
colonel Clif'urd ns hia rival. The major 
tries to outwit his supposed rival, but 
finds they are both in error, that it is 
Clarissa whom the colonel wishes to 
marry, aml that Supbia is quite free to 
follow the bent of her own and the 
majors choice, 

Wheel of Fortune (Tie), acomedy 
by K. Cumberland (177%), 

*.* For the plot and tale, see Pennup- 
Dock. 

Whetstone Cut by a Razor, 


WHIMS. 


Accius Navius, the angur, cot a w 
stone with a razor in the presence of 
quin the elder, 

To short, ‘tw his fate, onemploped of in place, sir, 

To vat rautien cnld, ail cut blocks with © fmur 

Goldsmith, Zetaltation |" Burke” is referred to, 1774), 

Whims (Quen), the monarch of 
Whinidom, or country of whima, fancies, 
and literary speculations. Her subjects 
were alchemists, astrologers, fortune- 
tellers, rhymers, projectors, schoolmen, — 
and so forth. The best way of ree 
thie empire is “to trust to the whirlwin 
and the current.” When Pantagruel's 
ship ran aground, it was towed off by r inder t 
7,000,000 drums quite easily, ‘These d “blew om the whisthe 
drugs are the vain imaginings of whim- iem shrill,” The wh Ue. 
evists. Whenever a person is perplexed he nily sev ral years, when it» 
at any knotty point of science or doctrine, | Won ‘by sir Walter Lanri: , son Oo 
some drum will serve for a nostrum to | Robert; and then by ’ Valter Ridde 
pull him through.—Rabelaia, Pantayrwel, | Glenriddel, brother-in-law of sir Wi 

























v. 18, ete, (1546). Laurie, ‘The Inst porsom who eneriett | 
Whim'sey, «a whimsical, kind- F Per mon af 
hearted old man, father to Charlotte and inate. tauric 


“*voung" Whimeey. known. + oa 
",* Borns has & ballad on 


Ag sorpleloge of everybody abewve hin, a if he had eon 
bred a rogue hime! —Avct |. L 


Charlotte Whimsey, the pretty daughter 
of old Whitnsey ; in love with Monford, 
—James Cobb, Fie First Poor, 

Whip with Six Lashes, the “Six 
Articles " of Henry VIII, (1539), 

Whinning Raw A hae bant ta ha 








WHITE CAT. 


=z 


1007 WHITE HORSE OF WANTAGE. 





believe that the spirits of the faithful (if 


neither prophets nor martyrs) abide 
under the throne of God, in the form of 
white birds, Martyrs are green birds, 
and prophets are taken to paradise direct 
%% propria persona, 


White Cat (The). A-certain queen, 
desirous of obtaining some fairy fruit, 
was told she might gather as much as 
she would if she would give to them the 
child about to be born. The queen 
agrecd, and the new-born child was 
carricd to the fairies. When of marriage- 
able age, the fairies wanted her to 
marry Miyonnet a fairy-dwarf, and, as 
she refused to do so, chanced her into a 
white cat. Now comes the second part. 
An old king had three sons, and promised 
to resiyn the kingdom to that son who 
brought him the smallest dog. The 

oungest son wandered toa palace, where 

e suw a white cat endowed with human 
apeeeh who yave him a dog so tiny that 
the prince carried it in an acorn shell, 
The father then said he would resign his 
crown to that son who brought him home 
aweb, 400 vards long, which would pass 
through the eye of anecdle. The White 
Cat gavethe prince atoil 400 yards long 
perked in the shale of amillet grain. The 

ing then told his sons he would resign his 
throne to that son who brought home the 
handsomest bride. The White Cat told 
the prince to cut off its head and tail. 
On doing so, the creature resumed her 
human form, and was acknowledged to 
be the most beautiful woman on the earth. 


Her eyes committed theft upon all hearts, and her 
Gweetnces kept them captive. Her shape was ma etic, 
ber air noble and neates:, hee wit flowing, her riauners 
engacing. In a worl, she was bejoml everything thas 
was lovely. —Comtesse D'Aunoy, Fairy Tules (*' The White 
Cat,” 1623). 


White Clergy (The), the parish 
priests, in contradistinction to Zhe Black 
Cleryy or monks, in Russia. 


White Cross Knights, the 
Knights TWospitallers. The Knights 
Templars wore a red cross. 


The White Crome Knight of the adjecent isle 
Rubert Browalng, 1he Return of the Drvess, 1. 


White Dsvil of Wallachia. 
George Castrivta, known as ‘*Scander- 
bey," was called by the Turks ‘The 
White Devil of Wallachia” (1404-1467). 

White Elephant (Ain7 of the), a 
title of the kings of Ava and Siam. 


White Fast (The), the day of atone- 
ment in the Jewish synagogues. 


White Friars (The), the Carmelites, 
who dress in white. 

*,” There isanovel by Miss Robinson 
called White Friars. 


White Hoods (or Chaperons Blancs), 
the insurgents of (Ghent, led by Jean 
Lyons, noted for their fight at Minne- 
water to prevent the digging of a canal 
which they fancied would be injurious te 
trade. 

Baw the fight at Minnewater, enw the “ White Hoods” 


moving west. 
Longfellow, The Belfry of Bruges. 


White Horse (A), the Saxon banner, 
still preserved in the royal shield of the 


house of Hanover. 


A burly, gental race hes raised 
The White Horse standard. 

T. Woolner, My Beautiful Lady. 
White Horse (Lords of the), the old 
Saxon chiefs, whose standard was a 

white horse. 

And tampered with the lords of the White Horse. 

Tennyson, Guinevere. 
White Horse of the Peppers, 
@ sprat to catch a mackerel. After the 
battle of the Boyne, the estates of many 
of the Jacobites were confiscated, and 
iven to the adherents of William III. 
mongst others, the estate of the Peppers 
was forfeited, and the Orangeman to 
whom it was awarded went to take pos- 
session. ‘‘ Where was it, and what was 
its extent?” These were all-important 
questions ; and the Orangeman was led 
up and down, hither and thither, for 
several days, under pretence of showing 
them to him. He had to join the army 
by a certain day, but was led so far a- 
field that he agreed to furego his claim 
if supplied with the means of reaching 
his reziment within the given time. 
Accordingly, the ‘‘white horse,” the 
pride of the family, and the fastest 
animal in the land, was placed at his 
disposal, the kiny’s t was revoked, and 
the estate remained in the possession of 
the orivinal owner.—S. Lover, cs and 


Legends of Ireland (1832-34). 
White Horse of Wan (Berke 
shire), cat in the chalk hills. e horse 


is 374 feet long, and may be seen at the 
distance of tifteen miles. ]t commemorates 
a great victory obtained by Alfred over 
the Danes, called the battle of Ascesdun 
(Ashdown), during the reign of his brother 
Ethelred in 871. (See Rep Horse.) 

To this battle all the flower of the barherian youth was 
there slain, eo that neither before nor since was ever mek 

detruction gained Britain 
werd, Chronicle, ll, 4. 671, (ee 
also Amer, Life of 4 red, year 671.) 





WHITE KING. 


“White King, the title of theemperor | 
of Muscovy, from the white robes which — 
these kings were accustomed to use. | 
jt pel ponguen, Moers, see Sees 


regia offi nomine appellaretur com Heme i 
Moscovie oo titulo anes | Susie /eoneioh) eek UM 


... Grelo sitem wt Peram pane propter pas 9) 
menta enpitia * Khetlpama” (ie, tubeom caput) woemt 5 
ita reyes Moscovime jropler aba tegumenta. “ Abou 
Kage” appellari —Sigisnsund, 

*,* Perhaps it may be explained thas: 
Muscovy is always called ‘* Kussia Alba,” 
as Poland is called “* Black Russia,” 


White King. So Charles I. is called by 
Herbert. His robe of state was white 
instead of purple. At his funeral the 
snow fell so thick upon the pall that it 
wis quite white, — Herbert, femoirs 
(1764). 


White Lady (Tic), “La Dame 
d'Aprigny," a Norman fee, who used to 
occupy the site of the present Rug de St. 
Quentin, at Bayeux. 

La Dame Abonde, also a Norman fee, 

VYornt domlaw Abudiam pro eo quod domlbous, 
quas frequecitant, aburdantion bonwram Lemporalium 
pretare pulactur pon citer Lol seniendun est equ 
oliter quam queniiimeduim de ills mudivleck — Willian 
ef Aurergoe (1248). 

White Lady (The}, a ghost seen im 
different castles and palaces belonging to 
the royal family of Prossia, and supposed 
to forebode the death of some of the royal 
family, eapecially one of the children. 








WHITE ROSE OF ENGLAND. 


1099 





WHITTINGTON. 





Richard de la Pole is often called ‘‘ The 
White Rose.” 

White Rose of England (The). 
Perkin Warbeck was so called by Mar- 
garet of Burgundy sister of Edward IV. 
(*-1499). 


White Rose of Raby ( The), Cecily, 
wife of Richard duke of York, and mother 
of Edward 1V. and Richard II]. She was 
the younyest of twenty-one children. 

*,* Anovel entitled The White Rose of 
Raby was published in 1794. 


White Rose of Scotland (The) 
lady Katherine Gordon, the [? fth| 
dauzhter of George second earl of Huntly 


by his second wife [princess Annabella 
Stuart, younvest daughter of James I. 
of Scotland]. She married Richard of 
England, styled ‘‘duke of York,” but 
better known as ‘‘ Perkin Warbeck.” 
She had three husbands after the death 
of “Richard of England.” Probably 
lady Katherine was called the ‘‘ White 
Rose" from the badge assumed by her 
first husband “the White Kose of York,” 
and ‘‘Scotland” was added from the 
country of her birth. Margaret of Bur- 
gundy always addressed Perkin Warbeck 
as ‘* The White Kose of England.” 


White Rose of York (The), Edward 
Courtney earl of Devon, son of the marquis 
of Exeter. He died at Padua, in queen 
Mary's reign (1553). 


White Surrey, the favourite charger 
of Richard 11]. 
Baddie White Surrey for the field to-morrow. 
Shakespeare, Rickard ///. act ¥. sc. 3 (1887). 
White Tsar of His People. The 
emperor of Russia is so called, and claims 
the empire of seventeen crowns. 


White Widow (Tie), the duchess 
of Tyrconnel, wife of Richard Talbot lord 
deputy of Ireland under James ll. After 
the death of her husband, she supported 
herself by her needle. She wore a white 
mask, and dressed in white.—Pennant, 
Accuunt of Londun, 147 (1790). 

White Witch (4), a “witch” who 
employs her power and skill for the 
benectit and not the hann of her fellow- 
mortals, 


Whites (The), an Italian faction of 
the fourteenth certury. The Guelphs of 
Florence were divided into the Slacks 
who wished to open their gates to Charles 
de Valois, and the Waiites who opposed 
him. The poet Danté wasa ‘“‘ White,” and 


when the “‘ Blacks” in 1802 got the upper 
hand, he was exiled. During his exile 


he compos ed his immortal epic, the Divina 


Whitecraft (John), innkeeper and 
miller at Altringham. 

Dame Waitecraft, the pretty wife of 
the above.—Sir W. Scott, Peveril of the 
Peak (time, Charles II.). 


Whitfield of the Stage (The). 
Quin was so called by Garrick (1716- 
1779). Garrick himself is sometimes ac 
denominated also. 


Whitney (James), the Claude Duval 
of English highwaymen. He prided him- 
self on being ‘‘the glass of fashion and 
the mould of form.” Executed at Porter's 
Block, near Smithfield (1660-1694). 


Whit-Sunday. One of the etymo- 
logies of this word is Wit or Wisdom 
Sunday ; the day on which the Spirit of 
Wisdom fell upon the apostles. 


For wistom and wit eorene | fald, 
Was sonen to the apusties as this dag. 
Cams. (nie. M&S. Dd., L 1, p. 94. 

Whittington (Dick), a r orphan 
country lad, who heard that London was 
‘paved with guid, and went there to 
get a living. When reduced to starving 
point, a kind merchant gave him employ- 
ment in his family to help the cook, but 
the cook so ill treated him that he ran 
away. Sitting to rest himself on the 
roadside, he heard Bow bells, and they 
seemed to him to say, ‘‘ Tum in, 
Whittington, thrice lord mayor of Lon- 
don;" so he returned to his master. 
ISy-and-by the master allowed him, with 
the other servants, to put in an adventure 
in a ship bound for Morocco. Richard 
had nothing but a cat, which, however, he 
ecnt. Now it happened that the king of 
Morocco was troubled by mice, which 
Whittington's cat destroved ; and this so 
pleased his highness that he bought the 
mouser at a fabulous price. Dick com- 
menced business with this money, soon 
rose to great wealth, married his master's 
dauyhter, was knighted, and thrice elected 
lord mayor of London—in 1398, 1406, and 
1419. 

*,* A cat is a brig built on the Nor- 
wegian model, with narrow stern, pro- 
jecting quarters, and deep waist. 

Another solution is the word achat, 
*S barter.” 

Kris, the son of a poor widow of Siraf, 
embarked for India with his sole pro- 
perty, acat. He arrived at a time when 













WHITTLE, 1100 ERO 
the palace was so infested by mice and was 1 Te English 5 mut Dheiley, 
rats that they actoally invaded the king's digan ion, rep on, * 7 
food. Thia cat cleared the palace of its aoe ae | my own 
vermin, and was purchased for a large vith your pantry, wh 
sum of money, which enriched ‘tother is | 7 
widow's son.—Sir William Ouseley (« | 
Persian story). 

Acrnonso, a Portuguese, being wrecked 
on the coast of Guinea, had a cat, which 
the king bought for its weight in gold, 
With this money Alphonso traded, and | 
in five years made £6000, returned to 
Portugal, and became rm fifteen years the | 
third magnate of the kingdom.—Descrip- 
tion of Guinea. 

See Keightley, Zules and Popular 
Filan 241-266, 


Whittle (Thomas), an old man of 63, — 
who wants to cajole his nephew out of 
his lady-love, the Widow Brady, only 23 
yeara of age. To this end be assumes | d 
the airs, the dress, the manners, and the 
walk of a beau. For his thick funnels, 
he puts on a cambric shirt, open waist- 
coat, and ruffles; for his Welsh wig, he 
wears a piytail and chapesu bras; for his 
thick cork soles, he trips like a dandy i in 
umps. He stnirks, he titters, he tries to 
be quite killing. Hediseards history and — 
solid rewling for the Amorous Repository 
Cupid's Revels Hymen's Delight and 
Ovid's Art of Love In order to get rid | 











40 but poo eltowr!, elltary thing, 

Thai fealedy bids beside the plaahy epring { 
Bha, eretched nation, formed lit ope, for leon, 
To firip the beh, with manilling cre 

To pick her wletry geet fro ihe thorn, 

To aos ber nightly ebed ed weep 11) morny 
She wml) belt af all the lari tradn, 

The med histonan of the penslre plain 


Her name was Catherine GERAGHUTY. 


Widore (The), courted by sir Huodi- 
bras, was the relict of Amminadab Wilmer 
or Willnwt, an independent, slain at Edge- 
hill. She was left with a fortune of £200 
a year, The knight's "Epistle to the 
Lady "and the '* Lady's Reply,” in which 
she declines hia offer, are usually | 
pended to the poem entitled //mdibras, 


Widow Blackacre, a perverse, 
bustling, masculine, pettifogging, litigious 
woudn.—Wycherly, Jie lain 
(1677). 


Widow Flockhart, landlady at 
Waverley's lodgings in the Canongate,— 
of W. Scott, Waverley (time, George 

Widow's Curl (A), a small re- 
fractory lock of hair that will not grow 
long enough to be bound up with the 
tresses, but insists on falling down in a 
curl upon the forehend. Jt is said that 
thia curl indicates wuluwhood, 


Widow's Peak (A), a point made 
in sume foreheads by the hair projecting 
towards the nowe like m peak. It is said 
to indicate widow hood. 


Wieland'’s Sword, Balmung. It 
was so sharp that it cleft Amilias in 
twain without bis knowing it; when, 
however, he attempted to stir, he fell 
inte two pieces,— Scundinatian a yltioloyy. 


Wiever ((/d), a preacher and old 
conspirator.—Sir W, Scott, J’everi of the 
J'euk (time, Charles IT.). 


Wife (Tie), a drama by S. Knowles 
(18). Mariana, daughter of a Swise 
burgher, nursed Leonardo in a danverous 
sickness—an avalanche had fallen on him, 
and hia life waa despaired of, but he 
recovered, and fell in love with his youn 
and beautiful nurse. Leonardo intended 
to return to Mantua, but was kept o 
prisoner by a gang of thieves, and Ma- 
riana followed him, for ahe found life 
intolerable without him. Here connt 
Florio fell in love with her, and obtained 
ber guardian's consent to marry her; bat 
Mariana refused to do ao, and was ar- 
raigned before the duke ‘desigaa pce who 
gave judzment agninet her, Leonardo 


was at the trial diavuised, but, throwing | 


1101 


WIG. 


off his mask, was found to be the real 
duke supposed to be dead, Tle assumed 
hia rank, and married Mariana; bat, 
being called to the wars, left Ferrardo 
regent. Ferrardo, being a villain, hatched 
up a plot against the bride of infidelity 
to her lord, but Leonardo would give no 
credit to it, and the whole scheme of 
villainy was fully exposed, 

*,” The tale of Shakespeare's Mid- 
fonmer Nuyht's Dream hinges on a similar 


“law of marriage.” 


Wife for a Month (A), a drama 
by Beaumont and Fletcher (1624). The 
“wife” is Evaothé (3 sy/.), the chaste 
wife of Valerio, parted by Frederick the 
licentious brother of Alphonso king of 
Naples. She repels his base advances, 
and, to punish ber, he offers to give her 
to any one for one month, at the end of 
which time he is to die. No one will 
accept the offer, and the lady is restored 
to her husband. 


Wife of Bath, one of the pilgrims 


to the shrine of Thomas 4 Lecket.— 


Chaucer, Canterbury Tales (1388), 


Wife of Bath’s Tale. One of 
king Arthur's kniglits was condemned to 
death for ill using a lady, but Guinever 
interceded for him, and the king gave 
him over to her to do what she liked. 
The queen said she would spare his life 
if, by that day twelve montha, he would 
tell her “ What is that which woman 
loves best?" The koight made inquir 
far and near for o aclution, but at length 
was told by an old woman, that if he 
would grant ber a request, ehe would tell 
him the right answer to the queen's ques- 
tion, The knight agreed, The answer 
soycesied was this: Women like best to 
have their own way and to be paramount; 
and the request sho made was that he 
would marry her. This the knight at 
first revolted from, because ahe was poor 
old, and ugly. The woman then asked 
him which he preferred, to have her as she 
was and a faithful wife, or to have her 
young and fair. He replied be would 
eave the decision with her, Whereupon 
she threw off her mask, and appeared 
before him young, beautiful, and nch.— 
Chaucer, Canterbury Jules (1554). 

* * This tale ia borrowed from Gower's 
Confezsio Amuntia, i., where Florent 
primises to tiarry o deformed old hag, 
who Laught him the solution of a riddle, 


Wig, the Latin pilucea, “a head of 
hair,” through the French perrwyue (our 






WIGGED PRINCE, . 


perinciy In the middle of the Det 7 
perici). there were thirty-three Sie | oe, c = rom 
sorts of wigs in use; the d 
barrister’s, bishop's, brush, t 
chain, chancellor's, corded w 
count Saxe's mode, the the 
hob, the detached buckle, 
Dutch, full, half natural, letntaal 
judge's, ladder, long bob, toe, Ret 
pigeons ST hee rose, 
she-drago in 
Staircase, Welsh, and wild bear mph 
aia hi banat ene te mt ru tanel atau — 
Brren, Letters (lime, Cherkes IL 

Wigged Prince (The Best), _ 
guardian, uncle-in-law, and first cow 
of the duke of Brunswick was ‘called 
ane Best Wigged Prince in Christen- 


Wik caebantiegnal of ing Onin 
ihigar, n : 
ohn meteor the island.— The Anglo” s 
Soron Chronicle, 

*.* Of course, oe ae ae 
philologically correct. Probabl 
“the chansel” (the channel telasdye ie 
the real derivation, 

Wigmore Street (London). S50 
ealled from Harley earl of Oxford and 
Mortimer, created baron Harley of Wig- 
more, in Herefordshire (1711). 











WILD HUNTSMAN. 


1108 


WILDING. 





death for assassinating the same prince 
(1610). 


Wild Huntsman (The), a spectral 
hunter with dogs, who frequents the 
Black Forest to chase wild animals.—Sir 
W. Scott, Wild Huntsman (from Burger's 
ballad). 

*,* The | d is that this huntsman 
was a Jew, who would not suffer Jesus to 
drink from a horse-trough, but pointed 
to some water collected in a hoof-print, 


and bade Him go there and drink.—Kuhn 
von Schwarz, Nurdd. Sajen, 499. 
The French story of Grand Veneur 


is laid in Fontainebleau Forest, and is 
supposed to refer to St. Hubert.—Father 
Matthieu. 

The English name is ‘*Herne the 
Hunter,” once a keeper in Windsor Forest. 
—Shakespeare, Merry Wives of Windsor, 
act iv. sc. 4. 

The Scotch poem called Albania con- 
tains a full description of the wild hunts- 
man. 

*,* The subject has been made into a 
ballad by Burger, entitled Der Wilde 
Jayer. 


Wild Man of the Forest, Orson, 
brother of Valentine, and nephew of ki 
Pepin.— Vulentine and Orsun (fifteen 
“entury). 


Wild Oats, a drama by John O'Keefe 
(1798). 


Wild Wenlock, kinsman of sir 
Hugo de Lacy, besieged by insurgents, 
who cut off his heail.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Betruthed (time, Henry II.). 


Wildair (Sir Harry), the hero of a 
comedy so called by Farquhar (1701). 
The same character had been introduced 
in the Cunstunt Couple (1700), by the same 
author. Sir Harry is a gay protligate, 
not altoyether seltish and abandoned but 
very free and of easy morals, This was 
Wilks's and Peg Wottington's great part. 

Their Widalrs, sir Joha Brute, lady Touchwoods, and 
Mra Frails are conventional reproductions of those wild 


Qallants and dewireze which figure in tious 
dranms of Dryden and Shadweil.—siur W. tcutt. 


*,* “Sir John Brute,” in The 


Provoked 
Wife (Vanbrugh) ; ‘‘lady Touchwood,” 


in The [elle’s Stratagem (Mrs. Lowley) 3 
Seve Frail,” in Congreve's Love yh 
108, 


Wildblood of the Vale (Yvung 
cick a friend at sir ais Peveril= 
Sir W. Scott, Peverid o (time, 
Charles II.). 


Wilde (JoAnny), a small farmer of 
Rodenkirchen, in the isle of Rigen. One 
day, he found a littie glass slipper belong- 
ing to one of the hill-folk. Next day, a 
little brownie, in the character of a mer- 
chant, came to redeem it, and Johnny 
Wilde demanded as the price ‘that he 
should find a gold ducat in every furrow 
he ploughed.” The bargain was con- 
cluded, but before the vear was over he 
had worked himself to d looking for 
ducats in the furrows which he ploughed. 
—Riigen Tradition. 

Wildenhaim (Baron), father of 
Amelia. In his youth he seduced Agatha 
Friburg, whom he deserted. Ayatha bore 
a son, Frederick, who in due time became 
a soldier. Coming home on furlough, he 
found his mother on the point of star- 
vation, and, going to beg alms, met the 
baron with his gun, asked alms of him, and 
received a shilling. He demanded more 
money, and, being refused, collared the 
baron, but was soon seized by the keepers, 
and shut up in the castle dungeon. Here 
he was visited by the chaplain, and it 
came out that the baron was his father. 
As the baron was a widower, he married 
Agatha, and FreJerick became his heir. 

Amelia Wildenhaim, daughter of the 
baron. A proposal was made to marry 
her to count Cassel, but as the count was 
&@ conceited puppy, without “ brains in 
his head or a heart in his bosom,” she 
would have nothing to say tohim. She 
showed her love to Anhalt, a young 
clergyman, and her father ave his con- 
sent to the match.— Mrs. Inchbald, Zorers’ 
Vows (altered from Kotzebue, 1800). 


Wildfire (3fadye), the insane daughter 
of old Mey Murdochson the yipsy thief. 
Madge had been seduced when a girl, and 
this, with the murder of her infant, had 
turned her brain.—Sir W. Scott, Heart 
of Midlothian (time, George II.). 


Wilding (Jack), a young gentleman 
fresh from Oxford, who fabricates the 
most ridiculous tales, which he tries te 
pass off for facts; speaks of his adven- 
tures in America, which he has never 
seen ; of his being entrapped into mar- 
riage with a Miss Sibthorpe, a pure 
invention. Accidentally mecting a Miss 
Grantam, he sends bis man to learn her 
name, and is told it is Miss Godfrey, an 
heiress. On this blunder the “fun * of 
the drama hinges. When Miss Godfrey 
is presented to him, he does not know her, 
and a person rushes in who declares she is 
his wife, and that her maiden name was 







WILDING. 1104 


Sibthorpe. It is now Wilding’a tum to | ba me 
be dumfounded, and, wholly unable to | ke 1 to te faa 
unravel the mystery, he rushes forth, | reo aa ; 


~“ 


believing the world isa Bedlam letloose, | = 4 -. Woy _— 

—S. Foote, Zhe Liar (1701). Am say estie wor 
Wilding (Sir Jasper), an ignorant but | 23" 38 ee * 

smheliiy, senciny gentleman, fond of fox- |“ sf tie du er her cl 

hunting. He dresses in Londe like a | © with aim Poy ioe? 

fox-hunter, and speaks with a “Hole! : ‘ Ingrate dei 

tally-ho i" Nis ume house = > —_ 
Foung Wiiding, son of air ged about | SPee lee ee ‘ry wort & 

to marry the sence Ta co os Philpot for | we ate 4, play! mae 


the dot ahe will bring hi Re 

Maria Wilding, the livel , witty, eek —_ aa mans wsiddy ; sine 
spirited daughter of sir Jasper, in love ak 
with Charles Beaufort. Her father wants — 
her to marry George Philpot, but she — 
frightens the booby out of his wits by | 
her knowledge of books and assumed | 
eccentricities. — Murphy, Zhe Citizen | 
(\757 or 1761). | 


Wildrake, a conontry squire, Stee | 
ing in horses, dogs, and field s He 
was in love with * neighbour Conant 
daughter of sir William Fondlove, with 
whem he nsed to romp and quarrel in 
childhood, He learnt to love Constance ; 
and Constance loved the squire, but knew | 
it not till she feared he was going to 
marry another, When “op each dis- 


covered the state of their they | 
sorend tn hacoma man and wife. 


« 


"Fl ay a 





one , eee 
Wilford, in love with 








WILFORD. 





Wirtiums, Cacen.)—G. Colman, The 
fron Cliest (1796). 


*,* This isa dramatic version of God- | 
win's novel called Caleb Williams (1794). | 


Wilford is “‘Caleb Williams,” and gir 
Edward Mortimer is “ Falkland,” 


Waford, supposed to be earl of Roch- 
dale. Three things he had a passion for: 
“the finest hound, the finest horse, and 
the finest wife in the three kingdoms.” 
It turned oot that Master Walter “* the 
hunchback” was the ear! of Rochdale, and 
Wilford was no one.—S. Koowles, The 
Hunchiack (1851). 


Wilford (Lord), the truant son of lord 
Woodville, who fell in love with Bess, 
the dauhter of the “blind beggar of 
Bethnal Green.” Te saw her by accident 
in London, lost sight of her, but resolved 
not to rest night or day til! he found her; 
and, said he, ‘If I find her not, I'm 
tenant of the house the sexton builds.” 
Bess was discovered in the Queen's Arms 


inn, Romford, and turned out to be his | 


cousin, — &. Knowles, 
Bethnal (ireen (1854). 


Wilfred, “ the fool,” one of the sons 
of sir Llildebrand Osbaldistone of Osbal- 
distone Hall.—Sir W. Scott, Hob Roy 
(time, George !.). 


Wilfrid, son of Oswald Wyeliffe; in 
love with Matilda, heiress of Rokeby's 
knight. After various villninies, Oswald 
forced from Matilila a promive to marry 
Wilfrid. 

romise, and fell dend at her feet.—Sir 

. Scull, Rokeby (1813). 


Wilfrid or Wilfrith (5F.). In 681 
the bishop Wilfrith, who had been bishop 
of York, being deprived of his see, came 
to Sussex, and did much to civilize the 

ople. Ie tanght them how to catch 
yeh generally, for before they only koew 
how to catch eels. He founded the 
bishopric of the South Saxons at Selsey, 
afterwarda removed to Chichester, founded 
the monastery of Ripon, built several 
ecclesingtical edifices, and died in 709, 


Ct Witrid, sent from Tork into thie realm received 
Whom the Northumbrian (dk hed of the eee ered), 
od on the sooth id Themes @ ee dl bie aor 
Ry whor the people fint received the caving 
Drayton, 


The Seggar of 


el (a 


Wilhelm Meister [Mice.ter], the 
hero and title of w philosophic novel by 
Goethe. This ir considered to be the first 
true German novel, 


parte ees under two titles, viz., 
pprenhecship of Wilhelm Meister 
47 


1106 
1794-96), and The Travels of Withelm 


Wilfrid thanked her for the | 


It consists of two | 





WILL-O’-WISP. 


ister (1821). 


Wilkins (Feter), Robert Pultock of 
Clement's Inn, author of The 4g and 
Adventures of Peter Wilkins, a 
Man (1750). 

The tale is thia: Peter Wilkins is a 
mariner, thrown on a desert shore. In 
time, he furnishes himself from the wreck 
with many necessaries, and discovers Lhat 
the country is frequented by a beautiful 


| winged race called clumms and gawreys, 


whose wings, when folded, serve them 
for dress, and when spread, are used for 
flight. Peter marries a gawrey, by name 
Youwarkee, and accompanies her to 
Nosmobdagrsutt, a land of semi-darknesa, 
where he remains many years, 

Peer W0iiw bb a work of uncommon besnty.— 
Colerkige, Table Talk (1535). 

Wilkinson (James), servant to Mr, 
Fairford the lawyer.—Sir W. Scott, Red- 
gauntlet (time, George III.), 


Will (Belted), William lord Howard, 
warden of the western marches (1563- 
16-40). 

His BiTbon Made, by Marchmen felt, 
Hung ln a broad and studded belt ; 
Henre, In rode Piro, the Borderers ef 
Calle noble Hownrd "* Belied Will." 
Bir W. Scout, Lay Laut of the Laat Minatrel (1808). 

Will Laud, a smuggler, with whom 
Margaret Catchpole (7.0.) falls in love. 
He persuades her to eseape from Ipswich 
jail, and supplies her with a seaman's 
dress. The two are overtaken, and Laud 
ia shot in attempting to prevent the re- 
capture of Margaret.—Key. R. Cobbold, 
Margaret Catechpole, 


Will and Jean, a poetic story by 
Hector Macneill (1789). Willie rr 
lace was once the glory of the town, and 
he marned Jeanie Miller. Just about this 
time Maggie Howe opened a spirit ahop 
in the village, and Willie fell to drinking, 
Having reduced himeelf to begrary, he 
enlisted as a soldier, and Jeanie had “to 
beg her bread.” Willie, having lost his 
leg in battle, was put on the Chelsea 
a ountty list ;" and Jeanie was placed, 
by the duchess of Boccleuch, in an alme- 
cottae. ae contrived to reach the 

Th 
Jean ance mair, In fond affection, 
Cissped ber Willie to her brenst, 

Will-o’-Wisp or Will-with-a-wisp, 
Here Will is no proper name, bot ao 
Scandinavian word cquivalent to mislead- 
ing or errant. Icelandic mila (* a going 
astray”), wile (“wandering”), “7 am 

43 






prec can with a strc 
own merits, John 
the most dogged and 
in existence, always sure aga he was 
right, and that every one who differed 
from him was wrong, He ultimately 
resigned the Maypole to his son Joe, and 
retired to a cottage in Chigwell, with a 
emal)] garden, im which Joe had a 


pole erected for the delectation of lia | 
father. Here at doyfall assembled | 


his cld chums, to smoke, and prose, 
doze, and drink the evenings away ; and 
here the old man oe the landlord, 
scoring up huge debite in chalk te his 
heart's delight. He lived in the conn 
a slee tt life for seven years, and then 
slept the of which knows no waking, 
Willet, son of the landlonl, a 
lgresl-ateuldlarest, s straps ang young fellow 
of 20. Deing bulli 
by his father, he ran away ard enlisted 
for o soldier, lost his right arm in 
America, and was dismiased the service, 
He returned to England, married Dolly 
Varden, and became landlord vf the 
Maypole, where he prospered and had 


brow-besnten | 


_—— ee 





WILLIAM OF GOLDSBROUGH. 


1107 


_—- oun oe 


WILSON. 





William of Goldsbrough, one of 
the companions of Robin Hood, mentioned 
in Grafton’s Olde and Auncient Pamphlet 
(sixteenth century). 


William of Norwich (Saint), a 
child said to have been crucified by the 
Jews in 1137. (See Huan or Lixcoty 
and WERNER.) 


William-with-the-Long-Swo 
the earl of Salisbury. He was the natu 
brother of Richard Coeur de Lion.—Sir 
My Scott, The Talisman (time, Richard 


Williams (Caleb) a lad in the ser- 
vice of Falkland. Falkland, irritated by 
crucity and insalt, commits a murder, 
which is attributed to another. William 
by accident, obtains a clue to the 
facts ; and Faikland, knowing it, extorts 
from him an oath of secrecy, and then 
tells him the whole story. The lad, find- 
mg life in Falkland'’s house insupportable 
from the ceascless snapicion to which he 
is exposed, makes his escape, and is pur- 
eued by Falkland with relentless perse- 
eution. At last Williams is accused by 
Falkland of robbery, and the facts of the 
ease being disclosed, Falkland dies of 
shame and a broken spirit. (See Wi- 
a — W. Godwin, Cale Williams 
1794). 

*,° The novel was dramatized by G. 
Colman, under the title of Zhe Jron Chest 
(une). Caleb Williams is called ‘* Wil- 

ord,” and Falkland is “sir Edward 
Mortimer.” 


Wilisms (Ned), the eweetheart of 
Cicely Jopaon, farmer, near Clifton. 

Furmer Williams, Ned's father.—Sir 
W. Scott, Warerley (time, George II.). 


Willie, clerk to Andrew Skurliewhit- 
ter the scrivener.—Sir W. Scott, Fortunes 
of Nijel (time, James I.). 


Willieson (Wiliam), a brig-owner, 
one of the Jacobite conspirators under the 
laird of Ellicslaw.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Black Dwarf (time, Anne). 


Williewald of Geierstein (Count), 
father of count Amold of Geierstein alias 
Arnold Biederman (landamman of Unter- 
walden).—Sir W. Scott, Anne of Geier- 
ston (time, Edward IV.). 


Will-o’-the-Flat, one of the hunts- 


men near Charlie's Hope farm.—Sir W. 
Sontt, Guy Mannering (time, George II.). 

Willough , of queen Eliza-~ 
beth’s gn Ww 4 Kenilworth 
(time, Elizabeth). 


Willy, a shepherd to whom Thomalin 
tells the tale his battle with Cupid 
iii (See THomALin.) In ecl. 
viii. he is introduced again, contending 
with Perigot for the prize of ’ 
Cuddy being choses umpire. Cuddy de- 
elares himself quite anable to decide the 
contest, for both dewerve the prize.— 
Spenser, The Shepheardes Calendar (1579). 

Wilmot. There are three of the name 
in Fatal Curiosity (1786), by George 
Lillo, viz., old Wilmot, his wife Agnes, 
and their son young Wilmot supposed to 
have perished at sea. The young man, 
however, is not drowned, but goes to 
India, makes his fortune, and 
unknown to any one of his friends. He 
goes in disguise to his parents, and 
deposits with them a casket. Curiosity 
induces Agnes to open it, and when she 
sees that it contains jewels, she and her 
husband resolve to murder the owner, 
and appropriate the contents of the 
casket. No sooner have they committed 
the fatal deed than they discover it is 
their own soo whom they have killed 
whereupon the old man stabs first his 
wife and then himself. 
ae eee, eer 
of the most appalling and effecting incidents fa the 
drama. —R. Chambers, Bugtish Literature, . 0%. 

Oid Wilmot's character, as the neody man who hed 
known better days, exhibits a sind naturally good, but 

for acting evil. —Sir W. Scott, fae Drama. 

Wilmot (Miss Arabelia), a clergyman’s 
daughter, beloved by George Primrose, 
eldest son of the vicar of Wakefield, 
whom ultimately she marries.—Gold- 
smith, Vicar of Wakefield (1766). 

Wilmot (Lord), earl of Rochester, of 
the court of Charles I].—Sir W. Scott, 
Woodstock (time, Commonwealth). 


Wilsa, the mulatto girl of Dame 
Uraley Suddlechop the barber’s wife.— 
Sir W. Scott, Fortunes of Nigel (time, 
James I.). 

Wilson (Alison), the old housekeeper 
of eolonel Silas Morton of Milnwood,~— 
Sir W. Scott, Old Mortality (time, Charles 


Wduson (Andrew), smuggler; the com- 
rade of rdie Robertaon.' He was 
hanged.—Sir W. Scott, Heart of Mid- 


lothian (time, George IJ.). 



























WILSON. : 
Wilson (Bob), groom of sir William — | living (ey 
ap the lord a wenger Seotland.—Sir | fave 


Wiliae Ii). ri ii ( Wis 2 n 
fntrrclactics ur the’ Blast Dessef by- aie | uideas 

W. Scott. 

Bertram” Isied ot Ellangowan Sir We | 
Bcott, Guy Mannecring (time, weorge IT.). 


Wilton (Aalpi de), the aceepted anitor | goon 
of lady Clare daughter of the earl of | ¢ Rehioe 


Gloucester. When lord Marmion over- | neu ea =. 

came Ralph de Wilton in the ordeal of | | = corner of a wn : 

battle, and left lim for dead on the field, a bi bre — = ~r 4 , 

lady Clare took refuge in Whitby Con- oo the ae oh va 

vent. By Marmion's desire she was Wan so the Jy P 

renioved from the convent to Tantallon wan 4. ores, xxiv. 

Hall, where she met Ralph, who had Winds (: The apart: al ts ; 

been cured of his wounds, Ralph, being | were the son = ot atrwun and Aue - = 

knighted by Douglas, married the lady | 3 y... Trane ne 

Clare.—Sir W. Scott, Marion (1808), | “Aurore to divine Astraeses rn a 
Wimble ( Will), o character in Addi- Sindee and Wis wm ne 

gon's Spectator, simple, good-natured, — A ae 21s. Tick 7 

and officious, Feat nevigabar. He tee ot fri 2 

_*,* Will Wimble in the flesh was | eh hi le ee ee ie 

Thomas Morecroft of Dublia (*-1741). 5 os flee nates ‘Suan el ae , aed 
Wimbledon (The Philosopher oF Alae r nm oO Vor LY- ev hae) mem oi es ' 

John Home Tooke, who lived at Wim! the globe, from which ™ . 





don, near London (1736-1812), sue, and hich ! 1 nab ond = wen r 


“ : 
oe _ - 








WINDSOR. 


1100 





WINELE. 





rni1s.)—Rabclais, Pantagruel, iv. 17 
(1545). 


Windsor (The Rev. Mr.), a friend of 
Master Geo Heriot tho king's gold- 
amith.—Sir W. Scott, Fortunes of Nigel 
(time, James I.). 


Windsor Beauties (The), Anne 
Hyde duchess of York, and her twelve 
ladies in the court of Charlies II., painted 
bv sir Peter Lely at the request of Anne 
Hyde. Conspicuous in her train of 
Hebés was Frances Jennings, eldest 
daughter of Richard Jennings of Stand- 
ridge, near St. Alban's. 


Windsor Sentinel (The) who 
heard St. Paul's clock strike thirteen, was 
John Hatfield, who died at his house in 
Glasshouse Yard, Aldersgate, June 18, 
1770, aged 102. 


Windsor of Denmark (The), the 
eastle of Cronborg, in Elsinore. 


Windy-Cap, Eric king of Sweden. 


ines ore eS, ann 
Wine. If it makes one stupid it is 
win dane; if maudlin, it is oin de cer 
(from the notion that deer weep); if 
uarrelsome, it is tin de lwn; if talka- 
tive, it is vin de pre; if sick, it is om de 
porc; if crafty, it is vin de renard; if 
rude, it is vin de sinye. To these might 
be added, vin de cherre, when an amorous 


effect is produced; tin de if it 
makes ome evotistical ; and vm de cra- 
puud, when its effect is inspiring. 

Wine (1814). In 1858 a sale took 
lace in Paris of the effects of the late 
uchesse de Raguse, including a pipe of 

Madcira. This wine was fished up in 
1814 from the carcase of a ship wrecked 
at the mouth of the Scheldt in 1778, and 
bad lain there till 1814. Louis XVIII. 
bought it, but part of it was presented to 
the French consul, and thus it came into 
the cellar of the duc de At the 
sale, forty-four bottles were sold, and 
the late baron Rothschild bought them 
for their weight in gold. 


Wine ( Three-BMen). Very bad wine is 
ao called, because it requires one man to 
hold the drinker, a second to pour the 
wine down his throat, and the third man 
is the victim himself, 

Abraham Santa Clara, the preaching 
friar, calis the wine of Alsace ‘‘three- 
wen wine.” 


Wine-Mixer (The Most Famous 


British), Quintafiona, the go-between of 
Guinevere and sir Launcelot. From an 
old ballad, it seems that Quintafiona sect 
sir Launcelot the task of bringing to her 
‘the bonnie white-foot deer,” an animal 
attended by seven lions and a lioness. 
This deer had already been the death of 
many champions. It was in reality a 
prince who had been transformed into a 
deer by the incantations of his father. 


Wingate (Master Jasper), the steward 
at Avenel Castle.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Abbot (time, Elizabeth). 


Win Horse (A), the standard 
and emblem of ancient Corinth, in con- 
sequence of the fountain of Pire’né, near 
that city, and Peg’asus the winge? 
horse of Apollo and the Muses. 


Winged Lion (The), the heraldie 

device of the republic of Venice. 
They'll plant the winged lion In these halls. 
Robert Browning, The Acturn af the Drauss, % 

Wingfield, a citizen of Perth, whose 
trade was feather-dressing.—Sir W. 
Scott, Fair Maid of Perth (time, Henry 
IV.). 


Wingfteld (Ambrose), employed at Os- 
baldistone Hall. 

Lancie Wingfeld, one of the men 
employed at Osbaldistone Hall.—Sir W. 
Scott, Hob Roy (time, George I.). 


Wing-the-Wind (Michael), a ser- 
vant at Holyrood Palace, and the friend 
of Adam Woodcock.—Sir W. Scott, The 
Abbvé (time, Elizabeth). 


Winifrid ( S.), Qatron saint of 
virgins ; beheaded by Caradoc for refus- 
ing to marry him. The tears she shed 
became the fountain called ‘St. Wini- 
frid's Well,” the waters of which not 
only cure all sorts of diseases, but are so 
buoyant that nothing sinks to the bottom. 
St. Winifrid's bl stained the gravel 
in the neighbourhood red, and her hair 
became moss. Drayton has given this 
legend in verse in his Polyolbion, x. (1612). 


Winkle (Nathaniel), M.P.C., a young 
cockney sportsman, considered by his 
companions to be a dead shot, a hunter, 
skater, etc. All these acquirements are, 
however, wholly imaginary. He marries 
Arabella Allen.—C. Dickens, Zhe Pich- 
wick Papers (1886). 

Winkle (Rip van), a Dutch colonist of 
New York, who met a strange man in a 
ravine of the Kaatskill Mountains. Rip 
helped the strnger to carry a keg to a 





WISDOM PERSECUTED. 


1111 





WISE MEN. 





as far as the river Phison to ere Hiarchus. 
—Philostratos, Life of Apollonios, ii. last 
chapter. 

Ben Jonson, in 1619, travelled on foot 
from London to Scotland merely to see 
W. Drummond, the Scotch poet, whose 
genius he admired. 

Livy went from the confines of Spain 
to Rome to hold converse with the learned 
men of that city.—Pliny the Younger, 
Epistle, iii. 2. 

Pcaro travelled from Athens to Egypt 
to see the wise men or magi, and to visit 
ArchStas of Tarentum, inventor of several 
automatons, as the flying pigeon, and of 
numerous mechanical instruments, as the 
screw and crane. 

PrTHacoras went from Italy to Egypt 
to visit the vaticinators of Memphis.— 


Porphyry, Life of Pythagoras, 9 (Kuster’s 
edition). 


Surna (The queen of) went from ‘the 
uttermost parts of the earth ” to hear and 
see Solomon, whose wisdom and great- 
ness had reached her ear. 


Wisdom Persecuted. - 

ANAXAGORAS of Clazoménew held opi- 
nions in natural science so far in advance 
of his age that he was accused of im piety» 
cast into prison, and condemned to . 
it was with great difficulty that Periclés 

t the sentence commuted to fine and 

nishment, 

AVERKOIs, the Arabian philosopher, was 
denounced as a heretic, and degraded, in 
the twelfth Christian century (died 1226). 

Bacon (Friar) was excommunicated 
and imprisoned for diabolical knowledge, 
chiefly on account of his chemical re- 
acarches (1214-1294). 

Bruso (Gturdunv) was burnt alive for 
maintaining that matter is the mother 
of all things (1550-1600). 

Crossk (Andreu), electrician, was 
shunned as a profane man, because he 
asserted that certnin minute animals of 
the genus Acurus had been developed by 
him out of inorganic elements (1784- 
1855). 

Dee (Dr. John) had hie house broken 
into by a mob, and all his valuable 
library, museum, and mathematical in- 
struments destruyed, because he was so 
wise that “he must have been allied with 
the devil" (1527-1608). 

FRARGIL. (See ‘ Virgilius.”) 

(GALILEO was imprisoned by the In- 
quixition for daring to believe that the 
earth moved round the sun and not the 
sun round the earth. In order to get his 


liberty, he was obliged to ‘“‘abjure the 
heresy ;" but as the door closed he mut- 
tered, £ si muote (‘' But it does move, 
though"), 1564-1642. 

GERnERT, who introduced algebra into 
Christendom, was accused of dealing in 
the black arts, and was shunned as 8 
“gon of Belial.” © 

Grostep or Grosseteste bishop of 
Lincoln, author of some two hundred 
works was accused of dealing in the black 
arts, and the pope wrote a letter to Henry 
ITI., enjoining bim to disinter the bones of 
the too-wise bishop, as they polluted the 
very dust of God's acre (died 1258). 

Aust (Dr.), the German philosopher, 
was accused of diabolism for his wisdom 
so far in advance of the age. 

PEYRERE was imprisoned in Bruseels 
for attempting to prove that man existed 
before Adam (seventeenth century). 

ProtaGoras, the philosopher, was 
banished from Athens, for his book On 
the Gods. 

Socratés was condemned to death as 
an atheist, because he was the wisest of 
men, and his wisdom was not in accord- 
ance with the age. 

Viraitivs bishop of Saltzburg was 
compelled by pope Zachary to retract his 
asscrtion that there are other ‘‘ worlds” 
besides our earth, and other suns and 
moons besides those which belong to our 
system (died 784). 

Geologists had the same battle to fight, 
and so has Colenso bishop of Natal. 

Wise ( The). 

Albert IT. duke of Austria, ‘The Lame 
and Wise” Soe Sena 

Alfonso X. of Leon and ile (1208, 
1252-1284), 

Charles V. of France, Le 1887 
1864-1380), Seren sen 

Che-Tsou of China (*, 1278-1295). 
‘ee de las Cases, Le Sage (1766- 

42). 

Frederick elector of Saxony (1 
1544-1564), Se, 

James I., ‘‘Solomon,” of England 
(1566, 1603-1625). 

John V. duke of Brittany, ‘“The Good 
and Wise" (1389, 1399-1442). 

Wise Men (The Seren): (1) Solon 
of Athens, (2) Chilo of S (3) Thalés 
of Milétos, (4) Bias of Priené, (5) Cleo- 
bolos of Lindos, (6) Pitticos of Mitylené, 
(7) Periander of Corinth, or, accordi 
to Plato, Myson of Chens. All flouri 
in the aixth century B.c. 


First suios, who made the Athenian laws ; 
White Cmiio, ia Sparta, was feaned for bis ue 


WISE MEN OF THE EAST. 


Bias wat o4 Tam iene wits pret 
Mityléud aches tnephdons tam FITEAC ng 
eserae eee = 
One of FPiutarch’s brochures in the 

Moralia is entitled, ‘‘ The Banquet of the 

Seven Wise Men," in which Periander ia 

made to give an account of a contest 

at Chalcis between Homer and Hesiod, 

The latter won the prize, and caused this 

inscription a be engraved on the tripod 

presented to him : 
Thls Hedol rows to the Heliconian nine, 
ln Chaich woo fran Homer the divine « 
Wise Men of the East. Klop- 
stock, in The Messiah, v., says there 
were six “‘ Wise Men of tha Enat,” who, 
ided by the star, brought their gifta to 

y pine ‘the heavenly babe,” viz., — 

Sel'ima, Zimri, Mirjana, Be | 

Sun‘ith, (See CoL.oeyg, THREE KINGS 

oP.) 


Wisest Man. So the ree oracle 
pronounced Soc'ratéa to be. Socratés 
modestly made answer, "Twas because 
he alone had learnt this first element of 
truth, that he knew nothing. 


ae Ce tes eee Ses ee eee 
Nor he whom Pythian maid did whilome ‘tel! 
be the wieet man thal then on carte did dwell, 
Phin. Netcher, 7he inle Iteads vt GAO: 


Wisheart (The Rev, Dr.), chaplain 


be the noel nf MM antenna 


























WITCRH’S BLOOD. 





Because ['m poor, deformed, and ignorant, 
And, ike a bow, buckled and bent together 
By some nwre stroug in mbecbiefs than myself. 
The Witeh of Edmorton (by Rowley, Dekker, 
and Ford. 1656). 


Witch’s Blood. Whoever was suc- 
cessful in drawing blood from a witch, 
was free from her malignant power. 
Hence Talbot, when he sees La Pucelle, 
exclaims, ‘‘ Blood will I draw from thee; 
thou art a witch !"—Shakespeare, 1 Henry 
VI. act i. sc. 5 (1592). 


Witherington (Generad) alias Richard 
Tresham, who first appears as Mr. Matthew 
Middlemas. 

Mrs. Witherin ton, wife of the general, 
aliws Mra, Middlemas (born Zelia de 
Moncada). She appears first as Mfrs. 
Middlemas.—Sir W. Scott, The Surgeon's 
Dawyhter (time, George II.). 


Wititterly (Jfr. Henry), an impor- 
‘ant gentleman, 38 years of age; of 
rather plebeian countenance, and with 
very light hair, He boasts everlastingly 
of his grand friends. To shake hands 
with a lord was a thing to talk of, but to 
entertain one was the seventh heaven to 
his heart. 

Mrs. Wititterly [Julia], wife of Mr. 
Wititterly, of Cadiyan Place, Sloane 
Street, London; a faded lady living in 
a faded house. She calls her page 
Alphonse (2 8y/.), ‘‘ although he has the 
face and figure of Bill.” Mrs. Wititterly 
toadies the aristocracy, and, like her 
husband, boasts of her grand connec- 
tions and frienda.—C. Dickens, Nicholas 
Nickleby (183%). (See Trnus, p. 1004.) 


Witi'sza. (See Vit1za.) 


Witling of Terror, Bertrand Ba- 
rere; also called ‘The Anacreon of the 
Guillotine" (1755-1841). 


Wits. “Great wits are sure to mad- 
ness near allied.”"— Dryden. 

*,° The idea is found in Seneca: Nul- 
dum marjnum injenium abs mixtura 
dementie est, Festus said to Paul, 
**Much learning doth make thee mad” 
(Acts xxvi. 24). 


Wits (Your fire), Stephen Hawes ex- 
plains this expression in his poem of 
Graunde Amoure, xxiv., from which we 
gather that the five wits are: Common 
wit, imayination, fantasy, estimation, 
aod memory (1515). 

Alas, cir, how fell you besides your Ove wits? 
Bhake-poare, Twelfth Night, act tv. sc. 2 (1808). 


Wittenbold, a Dutch commandant, 


1118 


WOBBLER. 


in the service of Charles II.—Sir W. 
Scott, Old Mortality (time, Charles II.). 


Wittol (Sir Joseph), an ignorant, 
fuvlish simpleton, who says that Bully 
Buff ‘‘is as brave a fellow as Cannibal, 
—Congreve, The Old Bachelor (1693), 


Witwould (Sir Wilful), of Shrop- 
shire, half-brother of Anthony Witwould, 
and nephew of lady Wishfort. A mixture 
of bashfulness and obstinacy, but when in 
his cups as loving as the monster in the 
Tempest. He is ‘‘a = superannuated 
old helor,” who is willing to marry 
Millamant ; but as the young lady prefers 
Edward Mirabell, he is equally willing to 
resign her to him. His favourite phrase 
is, *‘ Wilful will do it.” 

Anthony Witwould, half-brother to sir 
Wilful. ‘‘He has good nature and does 
not want wit.” Having a good memory, 
he has a store of other folks’ wit, which 
he brings out in conversation wi ood 
effect.—W. Congreve, The Way of the 
World (1700). 


Wives as they Were and Maids 
as they Are, a comedy by Mrs. Inch- 
bald (1797). Lady Priory is the type of 
the former, and Miss Dorrillon of the 
latter. Lady Priory is discreet, domestic, 
and submissive to her husband ; but Mise 
Dorrillon is gay, flighty, and fond of 
pleasure. Lady Priory, under false pre- 
tences, is allured from home by a Mr. 
Bronzely, a man of no principle and a 
rake ; but her quiet, innocent conduct quite 
disarms him, and he takes her back to her 
husband, ashamed of himself, and resolves 
toamend. Miss Dorrillon is so involved 
in debt that she is arrested, but her father 
from the Indies pays herdebts. She also 
repents, and becomes the wife of sir George 
Evelyn. 

Wives of Literary Men. The 
following were unhappy in their wives :— 
Addison, Byron, Dickens, Dryden, Albert 
Durer, Hooker, Ben Jonson, W. Lill 
(second wife), Milton, Molitre, More, Sadi 
the Persian poet, Scaliget, Shakespeare, 
Shelley, Socratés, Wycherly, etc. The 
following were Aappy in their choice :—~ 
Thomas Moore, sir We Scott, Wordsworth, 
etc. The reader can add to the list, which 
will serve as a heading. 

Wisard of the North, sir Walter 
Scott (1771-1832). 

Wobbler (Afr.), of the Cireumlocu- 
tion Office. When Mr. Clennam, by the 
direction of Mr. Barnacle, in another de- 
partment of the office, called on this ger tle- 








aaewse «a, Gees 


WOMAN-BEATING. 


Woman-Beating. 
The man thal lars his hand 
i af ee ae ering & 
hom Warere gruss L te name a coward, — 
4. Tobin, py 


Woman changed a Man, 
Irute, daughter of Lygdua AF Telethuas 
of Crete, The story is that the father 
gave orders if the child about to be born 

roved to be a girl, it was to be put to 

eath ; and that the ‘mother, unwillin 
lose her infant, brought it up og a Bs 
lo due time, the father betrothed his child 
to Janthé, and the mother, in terror, prayed 
for hele, when Jsis, on the day of mar- 
riage, changed Iphis to a man.—Ovid, 
Metaph., ix. 12; xiv, 699, 

CaNEvs (Se. nuce] was born of the 
female sex, but Neptune changed her into 
aman, /A.néas, however, found her in the 
infernal regions restored to her original 
bet. 

Trhe'stas was converted into a woman 
for killing a female snake in Lil gage 
and was restored to his orivinal sex by 
killing a male snake in the same act. 

Iv box pe WRAUMONT was one of those 
epicene creatures that no one knew which 
eex he belonged to. 

lleeMAritnkonrros was of both sexes, 


Woman killed with Kindness 
(A), o tragedy by Thos, Hevwood (1600), 

e “woman” was Mrs, Frankford, who 
was unfaithful to her niarriage vow. IHler 
hoshand sent her to live on one of his 
estates, and made lier a liber) allowance; 
she died, bat on her death-bed ler husband 
came to see her, and forgave her. 


Woman made of Flowers. 
(rwrdion sen of Don “formed a woman 
out of fuwers," aceording to the bard 
Taliesin. Arianrod had anid that Liew 
Liaw (ryffes (ie. “* The Lion with the 
Steady Hand") should wever have a wife 
of the human race, So Math and Gwy- 
dion, two enchanters, 

Tak Waseem of mk, aoe blooms of bree, aol 


Dies of pedlow-eret, onl projec ihersirom 9 | 


mablen, the falrest ond gum gracefal ever seen, anal ba 
tem) ber Ristewerrcde, anil 2 tren his loide.—T 
Mabinoyion |" Malh,” etz,, twelfth oon tory). 

Woman reconciled to her Sex. 
Lady Wortley Montague anid, “Jt goes 
far to reconcile me to being a woman, 
when | reflect that | am thus in no danger 
of ever marrying one.” 


Woman that deliberates (The). 


The wounee (hat dell bernpes be buat. 
duilioon, Cate, Iv. 1 (171) 


Woman's Wit or Love's Dis- 
guises, «drama by 8. Koowles (1833). 





1115 


~ ham, 





WOMEN, ETC. 

Hero Sutton loved sir Valentine de Grey 

bat offended him by waltzing with Grey, 
Athuoree, To win him back, she assumed 


| the disguise of a quakeress, called herself 


Ruth, and pretended to be Hero's cousin. 


| Sir Valentive fell in love with Ruth, and 


then found out that Ruth and Llero were 
one and the same person, The contem- 
porancous plot is that of Helen and Wal- 
overs. Walsingham thought 

elen had played the wanton with lord 
Amaoae and heabandoned her. Where- 
upon Helen assumed the garb of a yor 
man named Eustace, became fnends wit 
Walsingham, said she was Helen's bre ther 3 
but in the brother he discovered Helen 
herself, and learnt that he was wholly 
mistaken by appearances, 


Women (Jie Nine Worthy): (1) 
Minerva, (2) Semiramis, (3) ae 
(4) Jel, (5) Debormh, (6) are @ 
ritomart, (4) Elizabeth or Isabella 
Aragon, (9) Johanna of Naples, 

By th lady, mal=t eiery- 
pan beaded eS eke wanes, for iL is me 
to let Cheng ginderscaial of mach sturdye monlye women ag 
tae baw eeeos wrlalety erwrmrialles (herman fuaalt tendblley afl, 
——_ one, | warrant you, powers, to take | 
agme, om) dare rake warre with thesr hy 


i 


ministering wis 

logis on Moreira t"* Colamal's cepdy oo TorenteL 
*,” “‘THart-a-croce,” a hart permitted 

by royal proclamation to run free and 

unharmed for ever, because it has been 

bunted by o king or queen. 


Women of Abandoned Morals. 

Bansanra of Cilley, second wife of the 
emperor Sigismund, called ‘The Mesaa- 
lina of German) 

Beuny ( Madame de), wife of the duc de 
Berry (youngest grandson of Louis 
AlYV.). 

Catherine IT. of Russia, called “The 
Modern Messalina ™ (1729-1796). 

(HOVANNA or JEAN of Naples. Tler 
first love was James count of March, who 
was beheaded. Iler second waa Came- 
cioli, whom she put to death. Her next 
was Alfonso of Aragon. Her fourth was 
Louis d'Anjou, who died, Her fifth was 
Rene, the brother of Louis. 

Isapc.Le of Bavaria, wife of Charles 


VIL, and mistress of the duke of Bur- 


gundy. | 
~ Isancuue of France, wife of Edward 
1]., and mistress of Mortimer, 

Juvia, daughter of the emperor Augus- 
tus. 



















| WONDER. 


Marozra, the danghter of Theodora, | w viding port 
and mother of pope John XI, The | ike core o 
famous daughter of an infamous paar | bad a 
(ninth century). roffian: 

Messaci'xa, wife of Claudius the | hirel 
Roman emperor, tot 

Wonder (The), a comed Mrs. | wonld | 
Centlivre; the bet ie tenga fellows | 
Woman °° Kreaps a Secret. (1714) coma 
woman referred to is Violanté, and the 
secret she keeps is that donna Isabella, 
the sister of don Felix, has taken refuge 
under her roof. The danger she under- | ho 

in kecping the secret is this: Her | dje¢ 

over, Felix, who knows that mages 
Briton calls at the house, is jealous, an 

fancies that he calle to fe: Violanté. | 
The reason why donna Isabella has sought | 
refuge with Violanté ia to escape a mar- 
riage with a Dutch gentleman whom she 
dislikes. After a great deal of trouble 


a 
= + 


Maris). a | 
| FF 


and distress, the secret is onravelled, and | OSrm Bs once the property ‘ 
the comedy ends with a donble ery os mayors. it was built in 15 
that of Violanté with don Felix, and “ae ew We woes nd waa call; 


of Isnbella with colonel Briton. 
Wonder of the World (7 ny ed 


GEERnERT, a man of prodigious 
ing. When he was @ pope, he took 
the name of Svivester 11. (950, 999-1003), 

Orr III. of Germany, a pupil of Ger- 
bert, What he did deserving to be called | 
Mirabilia Mundi nobody kuowa (980, 


seadian tied : 
Ee - ee 











WOODEN GOSPELS. 


on the subject of Morgan-a 
Dickens, Bleuk House (1852). 


Wooden Gospels (The), 
tables. 


supper were 
the bouks of the four 


Kerrig.—C. 


card- 


t in the wooden gorpels, and 
(esrws} —Rabelais, Ger- 
eantua, |. 23 (1553) 


Wooden Horse (Tie). Virgil tells 
us that Ulysses had a monster wooden 
horse made by Ep¢éos after the death of 
Hector, and gave out that it was an offer- 
ing to the gode to secure a prosperous 
voyage back to Greece. By the advice 
of Sinon, the Trojans dragged the horse 
into Troy for a palladium ; but at night 
the Grecian soldiers concealed therein 
were released by Sinon from their con- 
cealment, slew the Trojan guards, opened 
the city gates, and set tire to Troy. Arc- 
tinos of ‘Miletus, in his m called The 
Destruction of Troy, furnished Virgil with 
the tale of ‘the Wooden Horse” and 
“the burning of Troy” (fl. B.c. 776). 

A remarkable parallel occurred in Sare- 
cenic history. Arrestan, in Syria, was 
taken in the seventh century by Abu 
Obeidah by a similar stratavem. He 
obtained leave of the governor to deposit 
in the citadel some old lumber which 
impeded his march. Twenty large boxes 
tilled with men were carried into the 
castle. Abu mnarched off; and while the 
Christians were returning thanks for 
the departure of the enemy, the soldiers 
removed the sliding bottoms of the boxes 
and made their way out, overpowered 
the sentries, surprised the great church, 
Opened the city yates, and Abu, entering 
with his army, took the city without 
further opposition.—Ockley, History of 
the Saracens, 1. 185 (1718). 

The capture of Sark affords another 

rallel. Sark waa in the hands of the 

‘rench, A Netherlander, with one ship, 
asked permission to bury one of his crew 
in the chapel. The French consented, 
provided the crew came on shore wholly 
unarmed. This was ayreed to, but the 
coffin was full of arms, and the crew soon 
equipped themselvea, overpowered the 
French, and took the island.—Percy, 
Ancvdotes, 249. 
Bwoln with hite and ire, their huge onwieklly force 
Came clustering like the Greeks uut of the woolen horse, 
Dray tn, J‘elyolbion, xil (1613). 

Wooden Horse (The), Claviléno, the 
wooden horse on which don Quixote and 
Sancho Panza got astride to disenchant 
Antonomas’ia and her husband, who were 
shut up in the tumb of queen Maguncia 


1117 


mother was a Welsh woman, apt to prose | 





WOODMAN. 


of Candaya.—Cervantes, Don Quirote, 
II. iii. 4, 5 (1615). 

Another wooden horse was the one given 
by an Indian to the shah of Persia as a 
New Year's gift. It had two pegs; by 
turning one, it rose into the air, and by 
turning the other, it descended wherever 
the rider wished. Prince Firouz mounted 
the horee, and it carried him instan- 
tancously to Bengal. — Arabian Niyhts 
(‘‘ The Enchanted Horse”). 

Revnard says that king Crampart made 
for the daughter of king Marcadigés a 
wooden horse which wculd go a hundred 
miles an hour. His son Clamadés mounted 
it, and it flew out of the window of the 
king's hall, to the terror of the young 
prince.—Alkman, Reynard the For (1498). 
(See CamBuscan, p. 154.) 


Wooden Spoon. The last of the 
honour men in the mathematical tripos at 
the examination foi devrees in the Uni- 


| versity of Cambridge.—See Dictionary of 


Phrase and Fuble. 

Bure my Invention must be dow” at sero, 

And [ grown one of many * wouden spoons” 

Of verse (the name with which we Cantabs pleme 

To dub last of honours In degrees). 

Byron, Don Juan, lll 110 (1880) 

Wooden Sword (fe wears a). Said 
of a person who rejects an offer at the 
carly part of the day, and sells the article 
at a lower price later on. A euphemism 
for a fool; the foola or jesters were fur- 
nished with wooden swords. 


Wooden Walls, ships made of 
wood. When Xerxes invaded Greece, 
the Greeks sent to ask the Delphic oracle 
for advice, and received the follewing 
answer (B.C. 480) :— 

Pallas hath urged, and Zem, the sire of all, 
Hath sa‘ety promi-ed ip a enoden wall ; 
ing, toll 


Seed-tiie and harvest, sires shail, 
thousands fought at Salamis and ok 


Wooden Wedding, the fifth an- 
niversary of a wedding. It used, in 
Germany, to be etiquette to present gifts 
made of wood to the lady on this occa- 
sion. The custom is not wholly aban- 
doned even now. 


Woodman (Tic), an opera by sir 
H. Bate Dudley (1771). Emily was the 
companion of Miss Wilford, and made 
with Miss Wilford's brother “a mutual 
vow of inviolable affection;” but Wile 
ford’s uncle and guaniian, greatly disa 
proving of such an alliance, sent the 
young man to the Continent, and dis- 
missed the young lady from his service. 
Emily went to live with Goodman Fajr- 


Woodville (Harry), the treacherou: 
friend of Penruddock, who ousted him 
of the wife to whom he was betrothed. 
He was wealthy, but reduced himself to 
destitution by vambling. 

BMrs. Woodville (whose Christian name 
was Arabella), wife of Harry Woodville, 
but previously betrothed to Roderick Pen- 
raddock. When reduced to destitution, 
Penruddock restored to her the settlement 
which her husband had lost io play. 

Captain Tlenry Wovudcille, son of the 
above; a noble soldier, brave and high- 
minded, in love with Emily Tempest, 
but, in the ruined condition of the family, 
unable to marry her. Penruddock makes 
over to him all the deeds, bonds, and 
obligations which his father had lost in 
gambling. —Cumberland, The Wheel of 

urtune (1779). 


Woodville (Lord), a friend of general 
Brown. It was lord Woodville’s house 
that was haunted by the ‘‘Iady in the 
Sacque."—Sir W. Scott, Zhe Tupestered 
Chamber (tine, George III.). 


Woollen. It was Mrs. Oldfield, the 
actress, who revolted at the idea of being 
shrouded in woollen. She insisted on 
being arrayed in chintz trimmed with 
Iirussels lace, and on being well rouged 
to hide the pallor of death. Pope calls 
her “ Narcissa.” 


“Odlom! In wonlien? “‘Twould a raint provoke t® 
Were the Lat wonls that poor Narvioa spoke. 

** No, bet a channing chintz and Brazaaels Lice 

Wrap iny co’ linihe and shade my lifele-s face; 
One winthl Pier® annem OP HH . 








WORLD WITHOUT A SUN. 


World without a Sun. 
And my, wtthout car hopes, without our teara, 
Without the bome that plighted love 
Without the sunile frum partial beauty won, 
Ow! what were man t—a wiehout o an. 
Campbell, Pleasures of Hope, ii. (1738). 
Worldly Wiseman (r.), one 
who tries to persuade Christian that it is 
very bad policy to continue his journey 
towards the Celestial City.—Bunyan, 
Pilyrim's Progress, i. (1678). 
Worm (Jan is a). 


The learn'd themecives we Beo’-vorms nase, 
Toe bluckbead is a Slow-worn ; 


The Aatterer an Earwig grows; 
Thus worme suit all conditions ;-- 
Miners are Muck-worms; Silk-worme Benus 3 
And Death-watches phy sicians. 
Pope, Te Mr. Johu Moore (1783). 
Worms (Lanjuage . Melampos 
the prophet was acquainted with the lan- 
guage of worms, and when thrown intoa 
dungeon, heard the worms communicat- 
ing to each other that the roof overhead 
would fall in, for the beams were eaten 
through. He imparted this intellizence 
to his jailers, and was removed to another 
dungeon. At night the roof did fall, and 
the king, amazed at this foreknowled 
released Melampos, and gave him 
ewen of Iphiklue. 


Worse than a Crime. Talley- 
rand said of the murder of the duc 
d'Enghien by Napoleon I., “It was 
worse than a crime, it was a blunder.” 


Worthies (Zhe Nine). Three Gen- 
tides: Mector, Alexander, Julius Cesar ; 
three Jews: Joshua, David, Judas Mac- 
cabseus; three Christuins: Arthur, Char- 
lemagne, Godfrey vf Bouillon. 


Worthies of London (7he Nme). 

1. Sis WitiramM Watwortn, fish- 
monger, who stabbed Wat Tyler the 
rebel. For this service king Ri HI. 
gave him the ‘‘cap of maintenance" and 
a dager" for the arms of London (lord 
mayor 1374, 1380). 

2. Sux Henay Parrcwarp or Picarp, 
vintner, who feasted Edward III., the 
Black Prince, John king of Austria, the 
king of Cyprus, and David of Scotland, 
with 6000 yuesta, in 1356, the year of his 
ma) oralty. 

3. Stk WILLIAM SEVENOKR, grocer. 
‘A foundling, found under seven oaks.” 
He fought with the dauphin, and built 
twenty almshouses, ete. (lord mayor 
1418). 

4. 8ia Tmomas Wuitsx, merchant 
tailor, who, during his mayoralty in 1563, 


1119 


“| owe 


WORTHY. 


kept London faithful to queen Mary 
dering Wyatt's rebellion. Bir Thomas 
White was the son of a poor clothier, and 
began trade as a tailor with £100. He 
was the founder of St. John’s College, 
Oxford, on the spot where two elms grew 
from one root. 

§. Str Jounx Bosmam, mercer, com- 
mander of the army which overcame 
Solyman the Great, who knighted him on 
the field after the victory, and gave him 
chains of gold, etc. 

6. Sin CHRisrorpner CrROKRR, vint- 
ner, the first to enter Bordeaux when it 
was besieged. Companion of the Black 
Prince. He married Doll Stodie. 

7. Str Jonx Hawxwoop, _ tailor, 
knighted by the Black Prince. He is 
immortalized in Italian history as Gto- 
vanni Acufi Cavaliero. He died in Padua. 

8. Sin Huon CavER Ley, silk-weaver, 
famous for ridding Poland of a monstrous 
bear. Hedicd in France. 

9. Sin HexfRty MALEVERER, grocer, 
generally called ‘‘Hlenry of Cernhill,” a 
crusader in the reign of Henry IV., and 
guardian of ‘‘ Jacob's Well."—R. John- 
son, Zhe Nine Worthses of London (1592). 


Worthington (Licutenant), ‘the 
poor gentleman ;" a disabled officer and 
a widower, very poor, ‘‘ but more proud 
than poor, and mure honest than proud.” 
He was for thirty years in the king’s 
army, bat was discharged on half-pay 
being disabled at Gibraltar by a shell 
which crushed his arm. His wife was 
shot in his arms when his daughter was 
but three vears old. The lieutenant put 
his name toa bill for £500; but his friend 
dying before he had effected his insur- 
ance, Worthington became responsible 
for the entire sum, and if sir Robert 
ramble had not most generously paid 
the bill, the poor lieutenant would have 
been thrown into jail. 

Emidy Worthinjton, the licutenant’s 
daughter; a lovely, artless, affectionate 
girl, with sympathy for every one, and a 
most amiable disposition. Sir les 
Cropland tried to buy her, but she re- 
jected his proposals with scorn, and fell 
in love with Frederick Bramble, to whom 
she was given in marriage.—G. Colman, 
The Poor Gentleman (1803). 

Worthy, in love with Melinda, who 
coquets with him for twelve months, and 
then marries him.—G. Farquhar, Zhe 
kecruting Officer (1705). 


Worthy (Lord), the suitor of lady 
Reveller, who was fond of play. She be» 
















wo UVERMANS. 


came weary of gambling, and was united | s) 
im marriage to Worthy.—Mas, | ture! 
Centlivre, The pe Table (1706). | k 


Wouvermans (The cep be Fe Alvra- 
ham Cooper. One of his beat : is 
“The Battle of Bosworth Field, | 

Richard Cooper is called “The British — 
Poussin.” 


Wrangle (Mr. Caleh), a hen-pecked | 
young husband, of oily tongue and 
plausible manners, but smarting under | 
the nagging tongue and wilful ways of 
his fashionable wife. 

Mrs, Wranjle, his wife, the daughter 
of sir Miles Mowbray. She was for ever 
soubbing her young husband, wranglt 
with him, morning, noon, and ni pnb “and | 
telling him most provokin gl “ok 
his temper.” This couple] 
dog life: he was sullen, be quick: 
tempered; he jealous, she open 
incautions. —Cumberland, Firat oon | 
(1796). 

Wrath’s Hole (Tic), Cornwall. | 
Bolster, a gigantic wrath, wanted St, 
Agnes to be hia mistress, She told him 
she would comply when he filled a small 
hole, which she pointed ont to him, with 
his blood. The wrath agreed, not know- 
ing that the bole opened into the sea; and 
thus the saint cunningly bled the wrath 
to death, and then pushed him over the 


CD ee 





WURZBURG. 





Happily, she is persuaded by Manly to | 


return home before the affairs of her bus- 
band are wholly desperate. 

Spare Richard t Wrumgheull, eldest 
son of sir Francis, a country buinpkin. 

Miss Jeany [Wronjhead), eldest 
danvhter of sir Francis; a silly girl, who 
thinks it would he a fine thing to be 
ealled a “countess,” and therefore be- 
comes the dupe of one Rasset, a ewindler, 
who calls himself a “ count.”—Vanbrugh 
and Cibber, The Provoked Huslend (1720). 


Wiirsburg on the Stein, Hochheim 
on the Main, and Itacharach on the Rhine 
grow the three heat wines of Germany. 
The first is called Stcinwine, the second 
hock, and the third muscadine. 


Wryat. Henry Wyat was imprisoned 
by Richard IIf., and when almost 
starved, a cat appeared at the window- 
rrating, and dropped a dove into his 
mand. Thies oceurred day after dav, and 
Wryat induced the warder to cook for 
him the doves thus wonderfully obtained, 

Elijah the Tishhite, while he lay hidden 
at the brouwk Cherith, was fed by mvena, 
who brought ‘bread and flesh" every 
moring and evening.—1 Ainys xvii. 6. 

Wryhlie (Andrew), ex-clerk of bailie 
Nicol Jarvie.—Sir W. Seott, Hob Noy 
(time, George I.). 


Wynebgwrthucher, the shield 
of king § Arthur. — The Mahinapon 
(“ Kilhweh and OUlwen,” twelfth cen- 
tury). 


Wynkyn de Worde, the second 
tinter in London (from 1491-1534). 
he first was ('axton (from 1476-14915, 

Wrenokyn de Worde assisted Caxton in 
the new art of printing. 

Wryo'ming, in Iennsylvania, pur- 
chased by an American company fetes 
the Delaware Indians. It was settled by 
an American colony, bot being subject 
t constant attacks from the savages, the 
colony armed in self-defence. 
moet of the able-bodiel men were called 


to join the army of Washington, and in | 


the summer of that vear an army of 
British and Indian allies, led by colonel 
Butler, attacked the 
aacred! the inhabitants, and burnt their 
houses to the prund, 

*.* Campbell haa mace this the subject 
of a poem entitled Gertrude of Wyoming, 
but he minscalle the place bet oming, and 
makes Dirand!, instead of Butler, the 
leader of the aitack. 





1121 


In 1778 | 


settlement, maa- | 








———- ———P 


XAVIER DE BELSUNCE. 


ny Bueyoehana’s ale fale W p'oming, 

_ . fee the jowellest lad of all 

Thal ow tie Atlantic ware their marn Pesiore. 
Lampbell, bertrudse af Wyening, | (LAG, 


Wryvill (William de), = steward of 
the field at the tournament.—Sir W, 
Scott, /oanAve (time, Richard J.). 





x. 


Xan'adu, a city mentioned by Cole- 
ridge in his Awila Khan, The idea of 
thia poem is borrowed from the Pilgrimage 
by Purehas (1613), where Xanadu is 
called ““Xaindu.” Jt is anid to have 
occurred to Coleriige in a dream, but the 
dream was that of memory only. 


Xanthos, the horse of Achillés. We 
spoke with a human voice, like Dalaam's 
asa, Adrastos’s horse (Arion), Fortunio's 
horse (Comrade), Mahomet's “horse” (Al 
Hiorak), Saleh’s camel, the dog of the 
seven sleepers (Katmir), the black pigeons 
of Dodona and Ammon, the king of 
serpents (Temliha), the serpent which 
was cursed for tempting Eve, the talk- 
ing bird called bulbul-hizar, the littl 
green lird of princess Foirstar, the White 
Cat, cum quitsdam aliis., 

The mearntal Kanthue (eae the bard of old) 
iY Pele warlike een the fortone told 
Peter Pindar |[v. Waoloot) Fae Lowslad, ¥. (L800. 

Xantippe (3 ey/.), wife of Socritis; 
proverbial fora scolding, nagging, peevia 
wife. (ne dav, after storming at the 
philosopher, she emptied a vessel of dirty 
water on his head, whereupon Socratés 
simply remarked, “Ave, ave, we always 


| look for rain afler thander.” 


Xantip"pe (3 eyl.), daughter of Cimo’nos, 
She preserved the life of ber old father in 
prison by euockling him. The guard mar- 
velled that the old man held out so long, 
and, watching forthe solution, discovered 
the fact. 

Eupbra’sia, daughter of Evander, pre- 
served her aged father while in prison 
in a similar manner, (See Greciax 
DAUONTER, ) 

Xavier de Belsunce (7. rrespoa), 
immortalized by his sclf-devotion in ad- 
Ministering to the plague-siricken af 
Marseilles (1720-22), 

*," Other similar examples are Charles 

40 








YARROW. 
Yarrow (The Flower of). Mary Scott 


was so called. 


Yathreb, the ancient name of 
Medina. 


When a party of them said, *‘O inhabitants of Yathred, 
Ghere is mo place of security for you here, wherefore return 
heme ;~ a part of them asked leave of the prophet to depart. 
—Al Aorda, raxiii. 


Yellow Dwarf (The), a malignant, 
ugly imp, who claimed the princess All- 
fair as his bride; and carried her off to 
Steel Castle on his Spanish cat, the verv 
day she was about to be married to the 
beautiful king of the Gold-Mines. The 
king of the Gold-Mines tried to rescue her, 
and was armed by a good siren with a 
diamond sword of magic power, by which 
he made his way thrvugh every difficult 
to the princess. Delighted at seeing his 
betrothed, he ran to embrace her, and 
dropped his sword. Yellow Dwarf, 
picking it up, demanded if Gold-Mine 
would resign the lady, and on his refusing 
to do so, lew him with the magic sword. 
The princess, rushing forward to avert the 
pics fell dead un the budy of her dying 

ver. 


Yeliow Dwarf was so called from his complexion, and 
the vrange tree he lived in... . He wore wooden shoes, 
@ coarse, yellow stuff jacket, and had no hair to hide his 
larye ears. —Comteess D'Auney, Puiry Teles (The 
Yellow Dwarf,” 1682) 

Yellow River(7hc). The Tiber was 
called Flucus 7i¢ris, because the water is 
wuch discoloured with yellow sand. 


Vorticibus raphiis e¢ muita flavus arena. 





Virgil. 
While flows the Yellow River. 
While stands the Sacred Hill, 
The proud ides of Quintilis (15¢2 July) 
Shall bave such bonour stall, 
Macaulay, Lays (“‘ Ratue of the Lake Regillus,” 18.29). 
*,* The ‘Sacred Hill” (Mons Sacer), 
80 called because it was held sacred by the 
Roman people, who retired thither, led b 
Sicinius, and refused to return home till 
their debts were remitted, and tribunes of 
the people were made recognized magis- 
trates of Rome. On the 15th July was 
fousht the battle of the lake Regillus, 
and the anniversary was kept by the 
Romans as a féte day. 


Fellow River of China is so called from 
ita colour. The Chinese havea proverb : 
Such and such a thing will occur when the 
Yelluw Ricer runs clear, i.e. never. 


Yellow Water (7c), water which 
possessed this peculiar property: If only 
a few drops were put into a basin, no 
matter how large, it would produce a 
eomplete and beautiful fountain, which 
would always till the basin and never 
dvertiow it.—Arabun NiyAts. 


1123 


YEW IN CHURCHYARDS. 

In the fairy tale of Chery and Fairstar, 
by the comtesse D’Aunoy, ‘“‘the dancing 
water” did the same (1682). 

Much of Bacon's iife wae passed in Diep tena alee 
Assia, and foootias mace sender than the golden 
water of Parizade (¢.«. | —Macaulay. 

Yellowley (Mr. Triptolemus), the 
factor, an experimental agriculturist of 
Stourburgh or Harfra. 

Mistress Baby or Barbary Yellowley, 
sister and housekeeper of Triptolemus, 

Old Jasper Yellowley, father of Tn 
tolemus and Barbary.—Sir W. Scott, Zhe 
Pirate (time, William III.). 


Yellowness, jealousy. Nym says 
(referring to Ford), ‘‘I will possess him 
with yellowness.”"—Shakespeare, Merry 
Wives of Windsur, act i. sc. 4 (1601). 


Ye’men, Arabia Felix. 
Beautiful are the maids that gfide 
On summer eves through Yemen's dales. 
T. Moore, Lalla Rooks (‘* The Worshippers,” 1417). 
Yenadiz’ze, an idler, a gambler; 
also an Indian fop. 
With pp ars you never help me; 


mendes (Sydney), the nom de plane of 
Sydney Dobell (1824- +). 

*,.* ““Yendvs” is merely the word 
Sydney reversed. 


Yeoru’ti, son of Quidra and Monntma. 
His father and mother were of the Guarani 
race, and the only ones who escaped a 
small-pox plague which infested that part 
of Paraguay. Yeriti was born after his 
paren migrated to the Mondai woods, 

ut his father was killed by a jagdar just 
before the birth of Mooma (his sister). 
When grown to youthfal age, a Jesuit 
pastor induced the three to come and live 
at St. Jo&chin, where was a primitive 
colony of some 2000 souls. Here the 
mother soon died from the confinement 
of city life. Mooma followed her ere 
long to the grave. Yeruti now requested 
to baptized, and no sooner was the 
rite over, than he cried, ‘* Ye are come 
for me! I am quite ready !" and instantly 
expired.—Southey, A Tale of Paruguay 
(1814). 


Yew .in Churchyards. The yew 
was substituted for ‘‘the sacred palm,” 
because palm trees are not of lish 
growth. 


But for enchema, that we heave not clyve thet berith 
grained leef, aignte therefore we take ewe instead of palme 
olyve.—Cnxton, Direstorg for Keeping Petticals 


YEZAD, 


~ ‘Wezad or Yezdam, called by | 
Goneles Oroma’zés (4 syl.), the vce 
rood in Persian m logy, | 
bo Sostenees or Arimannis the 
evil. Yezad created twenty-four 4 
spirits, and, to keep them from the power 
of the evil one, enclo¢ed them in an ogg j 
but Abriman pierced the shell, and hence 
there is no good without some Destroyer, ¥. (1797 
of evil. = Ray 





























' | ne of De Te he 
Yezd (1 syl.), chief residence of the ary glee ie j es 7 aml meeet 
Bpeeenaes: a Stephen saya they have ia ancy Th etiam I 


as wriee ‘a 
‘ > 


kept alive red fire on mount Alter mark 
Quedah (‘‘ mansion of fire”) for above = was i, se 
300) years, and itis the ambition of every Orso pee soe ‘end | CATT 
true fire-worshipper to die within the Yorick nd mw de 
eacred city. mie  Frtebeems shake | 
Prom Yeod's eternal " Mansion of the Fire.” i — Sem 2 bn 4 ay way (id 
Whore ogrd salts In dresas of beavers expire. — Farick, the tivwwly, fe, aed (be 
£. Moore, Lalla Kookh |" Tbe Fire- Worshippers,” 1437), ws orcre bite 7. us -: at 
Yegerne [L.yern'], wife of Gorlots | J; Raye de 
lord ae Tintay’il Castle, in Cornwall, Laurence Stee ah 
King Uther tried to seduce her, but ¥ Eafinca al Journ ey th — 
resented the insult; whereupon ther | fis 7 eae ko 
and Gorlois fought, ‘and the latter was aa ~ aye. 


slain. Uther then besieged Tintagil 
Castle, Look it, and compelled Ygerne to 
become his wife. Nine months after-— 
wards, Uther died, ond on the same day 
wus Arthur born. 

Terres wiilo Tiatagil +; kaa eumrette So 


Rofo aie wee to wed bit In her tears, 
dd with @ donot) ewlitnom, 


2 ee me de 





oe ee ee eee 


YOUNG. 


*oune. “Whom the gods love die 
young.”—Herodotos, J/istury. (See Notes 
and Queries, October 5, 1879.) 

*,* (duoted by lord Byron in reference 
to Haidee.— Dun Juan, iv. 12 (1820). 


Young America. J. G. Holland 
says: ‘‘ What we call Young America is 
made up of about equal parts of irre- 
verence, conceit, and that popular moral 
quality familiarly known as brass.” 


Young Chevalier (7%), Charles 
Edward Stuart, grandson of Jaimes II. 
He was the second pretender (1720- 
1788). 


Young England, a set of young 
aristocrats, who tried to revive the courtly 
manners of the Chesterfield school. They 
wore white waistcoats, patronized the pet 
poor, looked down upon shopkeepers, and 
were imitators of the period of Louis XIV. 
Disraeli has immortalized their ways and 
manners. 


Young Germany, a literary school, 
headed by Heinrich Heine [Hiny], whose 
aim was to liberate politics, religion, and 
manners from the old conventional tram- 
mels, 


Young Ireland, followers of Daniel 
O'Connell in politics, but wholly opposed 
to his abstention from war and insur.- 
rection in vindication of ‘‘ their country's 
rights.” 

Young Italy, certain Italian re- 
fugees, who associated themselves with 
the French republican party, called the 
Carbonnerie Democratique. The society 
was first organized at Marseilles by Maz- 
zini, and its chief object was to diffuse 
republican principles. 

Young Roscius, William Henry 
West Bettv. When only 12 veara old, he 
made £54,000 in fifty-six nights. He 
appeared in 1803, and very wisely retired 
from the stage in 1807 (1791-1874). 


Young-and-Handsome, a beauti- 
ful fairy, who fell in love with Alidorus 
“the lovely shepherd.” Mordicant, an 
ugly fairy, also loved him, and confined 
him in a dungeon. Zephyrus loved 
Young-and-Handsome, but when he found 
No reciprocity, he asked the fairy how he 
could best please her. ‘' By liberating the 
lovely shepherd,” she replied. ‘‘ Fairies, 
you hnow, have no power over fairies, but 
you, being a god, have full power over 
the whole race." Zephyrus complied with 
this request, and restored Alidoras to the 
Castle of Flowers, when Young-and- 


1125 





YSOLDE., 


Handsome bestowed on him perpetual 

outh, and marricd him. — Comtesse 
YAunoy, Fairy Tules (‘* Young-and- 
Handsome,” 1682). 


Youwarkee, the name of the gawrey 
that Peter Wilkins married. e in- 
troduced the seaman to Nosmnbdasgrsutt, 
the land of fiving men and women.—R. 
Pultock, Peter Wilkins (1750). 

Yasaie le Triste [F.sa1/ l& Treest], 
son of Tristram and Isold (wife of kin 
Mark of Cormwail). The adventures o 
this young kniyht form the subject of a 
French romance called Jsaie Triste 
(1522). 

Jie 

Ysolde or Ysonde (2 sy/.), sur- 
named ‘‘ The Fair,” daughter of the king 
of Ireland. When sir Tristram was 
wounded in fighting for his uncle Mark, 
he went to Ireland, and was cured by the 
Fair Ysolde. On his return to Cornwall, 
he gave his uncle such a glowing account 
of the voung princess that he was sent 
to propose offers of marriage, and to con- 
duct the lady to Comwall. The brave 

oung knight and the fair damsel fell in 
ove with each other on their voy 
and, although Ysolde married king Mark, 
she retained to the end her love for sir 
Tristram. Kiny Mark, jealous of his 
nephew, banished him from Cornwall, 
and he went to Wales, where he per- 
formed prodigies of valour. In time, his 
uncle invited him back to Comwall, but. 
the guilty intercourse being renewed, ho 
was banished a second time. Sir Tris- 
tram now wandered over Spain, Ermonie, 
and Hrittany, winning golden opinions 
by his exploits. In Brittany, he married 
the king's daughter, Ysolde or Ysonde of 
the White Hand, but neither loved her nor 
lived with her. The rest of the tale is 
differently told by different authors. 
Some say be returned to Cornwall, re- 
newed his love with Ysolde the Fair, and 
was treacherously stabbed by his uncle 
Mark. Others say he was severe! 
wounded in Brittany, and sent for his 
aunt, but died before her arrival. When 
Ysolde the Fuir heard of hia death, she 
died of a broken heart, and king Mark 
buried them both in one grave, over which 
he planted a rose bush and a vine. 

Ysolde or Ysonde or Ysolt of the 
White Hand, daughter of the king of 
Brittany. Sir Tristram married her for 
her name's sake, but never loved her nor 
lived with her, because he loved his aunt 








YTENE, 126 
Yaolde the F ir (the wife of 
ene the Tow (he eer King 


a knight to love only one woman, 
widow, wife, or maid. 


Ytene [F.tce’.ne], New Forest, a 


Hampshire weniglte 

Bo when two tars n wild Viewd bra 9 

Gr om Wiexpirali's een! count wen eee | 

Diapate the a a wae Tumerheas mle, seers. 

aes ee we | oe 

sre jm Cay Tricia. as iri. | At eth ae . aed ies 

Yuhid'thiton, chief of the Az'tecas, — biding, dantem 
the mightiest in and wisest in . th ate A. 9: vs 
council, He succeeded Co'anocot’zin GB | wich Fell ae moet ten 


sy/.) as king of the tribe _ led the 
ple from the south of | 
[exico.—Southey, Madoo (1805). 


Yule (1 ay/.), Cee 
1 Hag Ny leave | no longer. bu 

Ti. Gascakgne, The J rwites af ivarre, . iis 13 (lod 

Ywaine and Gawin, the En oe 
version of “ Owain and the Lad 
Fountain.” The English vers 
taken from the French of Chrestien a 
Troyes, and was published by Ritson | 
(twelfth century). The Weleh tale is in 
the Malinogion. There is also a German | 
version by Hartmann von der Aue, # | 
minnesinger (beginni am of thirteenth 
century). There are Bavarian and 
Danish versions. 

‘Teenét nd PF Dec desl oo» tenes im Wess 


a fe, e< 
i - 


, 














ZADIG. 


Zadig, the hero and title of a novel 
by Voltaire. Zadig is a wealthy young 
Babylonian, and the object of the novel 
ia to show that the events of life are 
bevond human control. 


Zad'kiel (8 sy/.), angel of the planet 
Jorter Jewish My tholey 


YY. 
Zad'kiel, the pseudonym of lieutenant 
Richard James Morrison, author of 


phetic Almanac, Handbook of Astrolojy, 
etc. 





Zadoc, in Dryden's satire of Absalom 
and Achitophel, is Sancroft archbishop of 
Canterbury. 

Siete ritact Arete cet 

Pt & (les) 

Zaide (2 syl.), a voung alave, who pre- 
tends to have been ill-treated by Adraste 
(2 syf.), and runs to don Pedre for protec- 
tion. Don Ptdre sends her into the 
house, while he ex postulates with Adraste 
“‘for his brutality.” Now, Adraste is in 
love with Isidore, a Greek slave kept by 
don Pedre, and when Zaide is called forth, 
Isidore appears dressed in Zaide's clothes. 
‘“‘There,” says don Ptdre, ‘‘take her 
home, and use her well.” ‘‘T will,” says 
Adraste, and leads off Isidore.— Molitre, 
Le Sicilien ov L'Amour Peintre (1667). 


Zaira, the mother of Eva Wentworth. 
She is a brilliant Italian, courted by de 
Courcy. When deceived by him, she 
meditates suicide, but forbears, and sees 
Eva die tranquilly, and the faithless de 
Courcy perish of remorse.—Rev. C. R. 
Maturin, Women (a novel, 1822). 


Zakkum or A/ Zakhkim, the tree of 
death, rooted in hell, as the tree of life 
was in Fden. It is called in the Aordn 
“the cursed tree” (ch. xvii.). The fruit 
is extremely bitter, and any great evil or 
bitter draught is figuratively called al 
Zakkam. The damned eat ita bitter 
fruits and drink acalding hot water 
(ch. xxxvui.). 


The unallagahble bitterness 
Of Zaccoum's fruit accurst. 
BSoutbey. Thaisba the Destroyer, vil. 6 (1787). 
1s this a better entertainment, of ts it of the tree al 
ZakhOm?—Ai Korda, ruxvil 


Zala, a peculiar ceremony of saluta- 
tion amongst the Moors, 

Zambo, the issue of an Indian and a 
negro 

Zambullo (Pon a Leandro 
Perez), the person carried through the 
air by Asmod¢us to the steeple of St. 


1137 


Henry Moasop 


ZANGA. 





Salvador, and shown, in a moment of 
time, the interior of every private dwell- 
ing around.—Lesage, The Devil on Two 
Sticks (1707). 

pare Sea gree So On Ste 
Phe O'd Curtosity Shop (1840). 

Zam’harir’ (Al), that extreme cold 
to which the wicked shall be exposed 
after they leave the flames of hell or have 
drunk of the boiling water there.—Sale, 
Al Koran, vi. (notes). 


Zamora, youngest of the three 
daughters of Balthazar. She is in love 
with Rolando, a youny soldier, who fancies 
himself a woman-haier, and in order to 
win him she dresses in boy's clothes, and 
becomes his , under the name of 
Eugenio. In this character, Zamora wins 
the heart of the young soldier bv her 
fidelity, tenderness, and affection. When 
the proper moment arrives, she assumes 
her female attire, and Rolando, declaring 
she is no woman but an angel, marries 
her.—J. Tobin, Zhe Huneymoon (1804). 


Zamti, the Chinese mandarin. His’ 
wife was Mandiné, and his son Hamet. 
The emperor of China, when he was about 
to be put to death by Ti’murkan’ the 
Tartar, committed to Zamti's charge his 
infant son Zamphimri, and Zamti brought 
up this ‘‘orphan of China” as his own 
aon, under the name of Etan. Twenty 
years afterwards, Zamti was put to the 
rack by Timurkan, and died soon afte 
i ee The Orphan of China 

1761). 


Zan the revengeful Moor, the ser- 
vant of don Alonzo. The Moor hates 
Alonzo for two reasons: (1) because he 
killed his father, and (2) because he struck 
him on the cheek ; and although Alonzu 
has used every endeavour to conciliate 
Zanga, the revengeful Moor nurses his 
hate and keeps it warm. The revenge he 
wreaks is: (1) to poison the friendship 
which existed between Alonzo and don 
Carlos by accusations against the don, 
and (2) to embitter the love of Alonzo for 
Leonora his wife. Alonzo, out of jealousy, 
has hie friend killed, and Leonora makes 
away with herself. Having thus lost his 
best beloved, Zanga tells his dupe he has 
been imnosed upon, and Alonzo, mad with 
grief, stabs himself. Zanga, content with 
the mischief he has done, is taken away 
to execution.—Edward Young, The Ae- 


wenye (1721). ; ; 
character o 


=,* **Zanga” was the 
It was also 


(1729-1758). 





ZEDEKIAH. 





1129 


ZENOCIA. 





This comedy was altered by E. Thomp- 

Zedekiah, one of general Harrison's 
eervants.—Sir W. Scott, Wovdstucd (tine, 
Commonwealth). 


Ze'gris and the Abencerra’ges 
[A’.cen.ce.rah’.ke], an historical romance, 
professing to be history, and printed at 
Alca’la in 1604. 1¢ was extremely popu- 
lar, and bad a host of imitations. 


Zeid, Mahomet's freedman. ‘‘ The 
prophet” adopted him as his son, and 
gare him Zeinab (or Zenobia) for a wife ; 

ut falling in love with her himself, Zeid 
EY her up to the prophet. She was 
lahomet’s cousin, and within the pro- 
hibited degrees, according to the Aordn. 

Zeinab or Zenxosia, wife of Zeid 
Mahomet’s freedman and ado son. 
As Mahomet wished to have her, Zeid 
resined her to the prophet. Zeinab was 
the daughter of Amima, Mahomet's aunt. 

Zei'nah (2 syl.), wife of Hodei’rah (3 
syl.)an Arab. She lost her husband and 
all her children, except one, a boy named 
Thal'aba. Weary of life, the angel of 
death took her, while Thalaba was yet a 
youth.—Southey, Zhalubu the Destroyer 
(1797). 

Zeleu'cus or Zaleucus, a Locren- 
sian lawyiver, who enacted that adulterers 
should be deprived of their eves. His 
vwn son being proved guilty, Zeleucus 
pulled out one of his own eyes, and one 
of his son's eyes, that “two eves might 
be paid to the law.”—Valerius Maximus, 
De Factis Detisque, v. 5, exl. 3. 

Huw man) now will (reel Zeleucus’ ? 
G. Gasouigne, The steals télas | 3877). 

Zel’ica, the betrothed of Azim. When 
it was rumoured that he had been slain in 
battle, Zelica joined the haram of the Veiled 
Prophet as ‘‘ one of the elect of paradise.” 
Azim returned from the wars, discovered 
her retreat, and advised her to flee with 
him, but she told him that she was now the 
prophet’s bride. After the death of the 
prophet, Zelica assumed his veil, and 
Azim, thinking the veiled figure to be 
the prophet, rushed on her and killed her, 
—T. Moore, Lalla Rookh (“The Veiled 
Prophet,” ete., 1817), 

Zelis, the dauyhter of a Persian officer. 
Bhe was engaged to a man in the middle 
aye of life, but just prior to the wedding 
he forsook her for a richer bride. The 
father of Zelis ro a ar him, but was 
killed. Zelis now took lodging with a 
ever ats and went with her to Italy ; 


but when she discovered the evil courses 
of her companion, she determined to be- 
come & nun, and started by water for 
Rome. She was taken captive by cor- 
sairs, and sold from master to master 
tall at length Hingpo rescued her, an 

made her his wife.—Goldsmith, A Citizen 
of the World (1759). 


Zelma’ne (3 syil.), the assumed 
name of Pyr’ocles when he put on female 
attire.—Sir Philip Sidney, Arcadia (1590). 
Pa ial nee Ineesree ee en eee age 

Ars ood suffers no oeffeminacy 


Zelu’co, the only son of a noble 
Sicilian family, accomplished and fasci- 
nating, but apoilt by maternal indulgence, 
and at length rioting in dissipation. In 
spite of his gaicty of manner, he is a 
standing testimony that misery accom- 
panies vice.—Dr. John Moore, Zeluco (a 
novel, 1786). 

Ze’mia, one of the four who, next in 
authority to U’ricl, preside over our earth. 
—Klopetock, Zhe Messiah, iii. (1748). 

Zemzem, a fountain at Mecca. The 
Mohammedans say it is the very spring 
Vhich God made to slake the thirst of 
Ishmael, wnen Hayar was driven into the 
wilderness by Abraham. A bottle of this 
water is considered a very valuable pre- 
sent, even by princes. 

There were also a xtvat many bottles of water from the 
fuuntain of Zemaem, at Mecea.—Arubdian Sights (“ The 
Purveyor's Story “). . 

Zemzem, a well, where common 
believers abide, who are not equal to 
prophets or martyrs. ‘The prophets yo 
direct to paradise, and the latter await 
the resurrection in the torm of green 
birds.— Al Aurdn, 

Zenel’ophon, the beggar-yirl who 
married king Cophet’ua of Africa. She 
is more generally called Pencl’ophon.— 
Shakespeare, Lure’s Labuur's Lost, act iv. 
sc. 1 (1594). 


Zenjebil, a stream in paradise. flowi 
from the fountain Salsabil. The wo 


_means “‘ ginger.” 


Ther atte:rdants {in paradiar} shall go ronad vith 
verels of alver, . . . and there shal! be given to ubem to 
drink cops of vine mized with Ube water of Zenjebil-- 
Al Korén, laxvi. 

Zenobia, queen of Palmyra, who 
claimed the title of ** Queen of the East.” 
She was defeated by Aurelian and taken 
prisoner in a.v. 273. 

Zeno'cia, daughter of Chari‘no, and 
the chaste troth-plight wife of Arnoldo. 
While Arnoldo is wantonly loved by the 








——E—_— 


ZEPHALINDA, 














rich Hippol'yta, Zenocia is dishonourably 

ursued by the governor count Clo'dio,— 
Heaumont and Fletcher, The Custom of 
the Counts y (1647), 


Zeph alinda, a young lady who has 
tasted the delights of a London senson, 
taken back to her home in the country, 
to find enjoyment in needlework, dull 
aunts, and rooks, 

Bhe went from opera, park, asembly, play, 

To piaruing walks, and prayers three howrs o dag; 

fo port ber thie ‘twink reuling aod Bolen, 

T? inde, save spell) beer sulliary tea, 

(fer her cold coffe trifle with her apaon, 

Cait Uee slow chock ond dine exact ad neon, 

Popa, Apinile to Mie Sigg (IT LG, 

Zeph'on, « cherub who detected Satan 
equatting in the garden, and brought him 
befure Gabriel the archangel. The word 
means “‘searcher of secrets.” Milton 
niakes him “the guardian angel of para- 
dise," 

Ithuriel aml Zephon, wilh winged epee 

Bench thro’ this gunien, lewwe unsearched no nook ; 

But chiefly where those two iar ereatores jogs, 

How bold perhaps aelerp, secre of kere 

Milton, Jardaliss Jost, iv, TES (LGGR), 


Zephyr. (See MorGane, p. 660.) 
Zerbinette (3 syl.), the daughter of 
Argante (2 sy/.), stolen from her parents 
by gipsies when four yearsold, and brought 
up by them. Leéandre, the son of seignior 
Geéronte, fell in love with her, and mar- 


1130 








ZEUXIS AND PARRHASIOS, 


allured her away under the promise of 
‘making her a fine lady.—Mozart, [jes 
Givowind (opera, 1787). 

Zerli'na, in Aubera opera of Jre 
Dnraecolo (1830). 

Zesbet, daughter of the exyce Oncha 
of Jerusalem. She had four hushands ai 





the same time, viz., Abdal Motallab (the 


sage), Yaarab (the judge), Abou'teleb (a 
doctor of law), and Temundar (a soldier) 
Zesbet was the mother of the prope 
Mahomet. Mahomet appeared ta } 
before his birth in the form of a venerable 
old man, and said to her: 


g 


“You lave found favour before Allah Look : 
Neca ia ante peak Biowd of Spe, Sa wie De Be s- 


the Ws sours, acl areters Labour. chen, with « bey 
fal te tiring om inks the workl to ten it Al oo 
who alval) the law which | a 


(The mother of Mahomet is generally 
called Amina, not Aminta,) 


Zeus (1 syl.), the Grecian Jupiter. 
The word was once applied to the blo 
firmament, the upper sky, the arch of 


light; but in Homeric m 











ZILLAH. 


1181 





ZOHAK. 





picture to show Lisa, Mandyn was not 
at home, but had left a picture of his 
favourite pupil Frans Floris, represent- 
ing the “fallen angels,” on an easel, 
Quintin painted a bee on the outstretched 
limb, and when Mandyn returned he 
tried to brush it off, whereupon the de- 
ceplion waa discovered. The old man's 
heart was moved, and he gave Quintin 
his dauchter in marriage, saying, ‘‘ You 
ars : true meer greater than Johann 
fandyn.” This pointing ia in Antw 
Cathedral. ~~ ag 

VELAsQURZ painted a Spanish admiral 
eo true to life that king Felipe IV., 
entering the studio, thought the painting 
was the admiral, and apoke to it aa sach, 
reproving the supposed officer for being 
in the studio wasting his timé, when he 
ought tu have been with the fleet, 


Zillah, beloved by Ilamuel a brutish 
sot. Zillah rejected his suit, and Hamue) 
vowed venveance. Accordingly, he gave 
out that Zillah had intercourse with the 
devil, and she waa condemned to le 
burnt aliwe. God averted the flames, 
which consumed Hamuel, but Zillah 
stow unhanned, and the stake to which 
Bhe was bound threw forth white roses, 
‘the first ever seen on earth since para- 
dise was lost."—Southey. (See I 
p- 845, col. 1, last art.) 

Zimmerman (Adam), the old 
burgher of Soleure, one of the Swiss 
deputies to Charles “‘the Bold" of Iur- 

ndy.—sir W. Scott, Anne of Geierstein 
eat, Edward IV.). 


Zim'ri, one of the six Wise Men of | 


the Fast led by the guiding star to Jesus, 
Seri ents ts fost Sey pail 8 oth 
and then expired.—Kigatock, fa Messiah, ¥. (771) 
Zimri, in Dryden's satire of Absalom 

aud Achitophel, ia the second duke of 
Buckingham, As Zimri conspired against 
Asa king of Judah, so the duke of Buck- 
ingham “‘ formed parties and joined fac- 
Gons."—1 Ainys xvi. 9. 

Bome of the chicta were princes in the land : 

In the first rack of three did Ziimr stand — 

A tn a Tarous thal be seen! de be 

dad ts potion. clonaate tee ora 

Lit mye othe 
Wasa ever) Liing by Warns, ane eenthaing Dome, 
t. (zee). 


Zine'bi (Mohammed), king of Syria, 
tributary to the caliph Haroun-al-Raselid ; 
of very humane dispusition. — Arabian 
aights (‘*\Ganem, the Slave of Love"). 

Zineu'ra, in Boccaccio’s Decameron 
(day 11, Nov. 9), ia the “Imogen” of 


| Shakespeare's Cymbeline. 





She aseomed 
male attire with the name of Sicurano 
da Final’ (Imogen assumed male attire 


| aod the name Fidelé) ; Zineura’s husband 


was Bernard Lomellin, and the villain 
was Ambrose (Imogen’s husband was 
Posthimus Leonitus, and the villain 
Iachima). In Shakespeare, the British 
king Crmbeline takes the place assigned 
by biccisets to the sultan, 

Ziska or Bizgka, Joho of Trocznir, 
a Tohemian pobleman, leader of the 
Hussites. He fought under Henry VY. at 
Agincourt, His sister had been seduced 
by a monk ; and whenever he heard the 

riek of a catholic at the stake, he called 
it “his sister's bridal song." The story 
goes that he ordered bis skin at death to 

‘made into drum-heada (1360-1424). 

*,* Some say that John of Trocza0v 
was called *‘ Ziska" because he was “‘ cne- 
eyed ;" but that ia a mistake—Ziska was a 
family name, and does not mean “ one- 
eyed,” either in the Polish or Bohemian 


language, 
eat eons pag chal o hide 
your ched aa parcacot on a drum 
Lite Ziska‘s ako, to boat alaro to all 
) Pyros, Werner, L (LET). 


But be it as it ls, the time may come 
His py | Mapoleon's| shall best th* abormy [ie Zleko'y 
Byroa, dye af Gromes, by, (1518), 

Zobeide [2-hay'-de), half-sister of 
Aminé. Sho had two eisters, who were 
turned into little black doga by way of 
punishment for casting Zobeidé and “ the 
prince” from the petrified city into the 
een, Zobeidd was rescued by the “ fairy 
serpent,” who had metamorphosed the 
two sisters, and Zobeidé was enjoined to 
give the two dogs a hundred lashes every 

uy. Ultimately, the two dogs were re- 
stored to their proper forms, and married 
two calenders, ‘sons of kinga;" Zobeidd 
marred the caliph Haroun-al-Raschid ; 
and Amin@ was restored to Amin, the 
caliphs son, to whom she was already 
marnied.—Arabian Nights (“History of 
Zobeidé™), 

While the caliph was absent from 
Bagdad, Zobeide caused his favourite 
(named Fetnab) to be buried alive, for 
which she was divorced.—Arabian Nights 
(“‘Ganem, the Slave of Love). 

hak, the giant who keeps the 
“mouth of hell.” He was the Atth of 
the Pischdadian dynasty, and was a lineal 
descendant of Shedad king of Ad. He 
murdered his predecessor, and invented 
both daying men alive and killing them 





APPENDICES. 


= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= 


Vid hkany 


arene t ug 
/urlesque comedy, 
Bu r cmiue opera, 
Sur ue traged 
Ballad! < 
Balla farce, 
Rallat opera, 
Kaltet, 
Burletta, 
Comedy. 
Comic drama. 
ComAiie historique. 
tC wpera. 
Comedietta or cComedet{ 
Classical come ly. 
Classical comedietta, 
Classical drama. 
Castirg] Play. 
Classica! frageily. 
Court ens ‘Tidlinmeng., 
Courg ihc, 
rama. 
Dramatic eviertainmen 
Drama his toriciue, 
rama fi: novel 
irramitic Piece, 
Dramatic poem, 
Dramatic romance, 
Dramatic sa tire, 
Domestic drama, 
Entertaj nment, 
Faice, 
furce comedy. 
Fairy cuimedy 
Grand kastirn melodram 
tpectucle, 
Grand operatic romance, 
Historic comet y. 
Hixtoric a ranus, 
Mistoric play. 
Historic romance, 
Mistoric tragedy, 
Hervic pla y. 


Fastin? .. 2 





APPENDIX I. 


AUTHORS AND DATES OF DRAMAS AND OPERAS. 


és observed between the dates given in this list and those in the 


body of the 


Re Gore Jered: soi. 
given are to be preferred. TE aa I Dore tie eine thas ths: Sete a ene 
plays af een ophiy Sony poteby and can be ass‘ gned only approsimately; and in not a few instances 


Great labeur has been 


art or The Moor’s Revenge, 1670, Mrs. 


n. C. 

Abel, Ieth ont, Alfierf. T.0. 

Abroud and at Home, 1764-1817, Holman. C.0. 

Absalon, 1590, Peele. T. 

Accum pltoes (The), about 1790, Goethe. C. 

Achille in Sciro, 1736, Metastasio. O. (written in 
eighteen days; music by Iv). 

saat Galatea, 1643, Campistrun. O. (music 

y Lulti 

Acis aml en 1735, Handel. 0. 

Adelaide du Gueactin, 1734, Voltaire. T, 

Adelgitha, 1806, Lewis. PA. 

Adelimnorn or The Outlaw, 1801, Lewis. D. 

Adherbal, 1647, Lagrange pie 

Adopted Chiid, * Birch. Mu.D. 

Adrisno in Siria, 1731, Mctastaslo. 
by Calcara). 

Adrienne Tecouvreur, 1849, MM. Legouvé and 
Scribe CC, 

Faop, 1697, Vanbrugh (borrowed from Bour- 
auult’s Abopr, 1606), 

Africaine (/."), 1565, Meyerbeer. 0. 

Africans (7h), 160%. Culman. Pl. 

After Dark, 19th cent., Boucicauls. 

Agamemnon, 1566, Studley, T. (Sencea’s play 
done into English). 

Agamemnon, 1734, Thomeon. T. 

Agamemnon, printed 1%s3, Alfieri. T. 

AgtsiLis, 1666, Corneille. TT. 

Agia, 1758, Home. T. 

Agis (Agide), printed 1783, Alfieri T. 

Agnes ie Vere. 1%34, Buckatone, 

Agurenre, about 1*20, Pacer. 0. 

Agreuble Surprise, 1798, O'Keefe. C. 

Ab! que Amour ext Agréesble! 1462, Dels- 
porte, C. 

Alauddin, 1*26, Bishop. 0. 

Alarcos, 1239, Disracll, T. 

Alarming Sacrifice, about 1849, Buckstone. FP, 

Albumasair, 1634, B. (a commty). 

Alunte, 1690, Lagrange. T. 

Alevate, 1769, Glick. O. (libretto ty Calzaligt), 

Alcheiitct (The), 1610, Jonson, C. (altered into 
The Tobacconist). 

Alcibiade, 1658, Cumpistron. T. 


O. (music 


bustowed on this list to make it trustworthy. 


Alcibiades, 1675, Otway. T. 

Alessandro bell’ Indie, 1729, Metastasio, 0. 

sacar and Cumpaspd, etc, 1583, Lyly. 

yt 

Alexander the Great (second title of The Rival 
Queens), 167%, Lev. T. 

Alexandre, 1665, Racine. T. 

Alexina, 1266, Knowles. PI. 

Alfonso King of Castile, 1401, Lewis. HPI. 

Alfred, 1724, Ame or his pupil Burney. 0. 

Alfred, i778, Home. HLPL 

Alfred or The Roust Reef of Old Englaod, 1740, 
J. Thowsen and Malloch. M, 

Ali Boba, 1033, Cherubin. 0. 

Aline Reine de Golcunde, 1767, Sedaine. U. 

All Fools, 1605, Chapman. C. 

All for Fume, 1807, Cherry. CGC 

All for Love or the World Well Lost, 1678, 
Dryden. T. 

All for Money, 157%, Lapton.  T.C. 

All in the Wrong, 1761, Murphy. C 

All is Vanity or The Cynic’s Defeat, ® Alfred 
Thompeon, C1.Cdta. 

All the World's a Stuge, © Jackman. F. 

All's Well that t.nds Well 1598, Shakexpeare. C, 

Almansor. (See “Conquest of Granada”) 

Almeria, 169s, Handel. O. 

Almeyda Queen of Grenada, 1796, Miss Lee. T. 

Alonzo, 1773, Home. T. 

Alpheus Ring of Arragon, posthumous 16%, 

(Greene, 


Alnatii ( Thr Syuire of), 1688, Shadwell C. (often 
called The Gentleman of Aleatia). 

Alzire, 1736, Voltaire. ‘T. (dune into English by 
HN, A/eira, 173%). 

Amadis de Greve, 1704, Lamotte. 0. 

Amant [)ifficile (/.”), leth cent., Lamotte, C. 

Amant Jaloux (1), 1774, Gréetry. QO. 

Amants Magnifiques, 1670, Muliere. Cy 

Amaais, 1677-175", Lagrange. T. 

Anutmsauinece, 1437, Scribe. O.C, 

Ambitious Stepmother (The), 1698, Rowe. T. 

Ambitioua Vengeance, lsth ecnt., Merry. 

Aaielia, 176%, Cumberland, (T hie fe The Guap 
mer’s Tale cut duwn into an ee 

Amends for Ladies, 1618, Field. 








DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 








1187 





Rattle of Hermann, |y9tb cent., Kleist. H.D. 
Tattle of Hexham, 1789, Colman. C. 
Battle of 3 Sedgtnour, about 1675, duk) of Back- 


Bear- a ne 19th cent., Buckstone. 
Beatrice di Tenda, 1435, Bellini. 0. 
Heau's Duel, 1703, Cenuivre. CG 
Beauty, 1616, Jonson = C. 

Beaux’ Stratagem, 1707, Farquhar. @ 
Becket. (See “Thomas a Bi cket.” 

Beggur of Bethnal Green, 1834, Knowles. C. 
(See * Blind Beygar of Bethnal Green.”) 
Beggars’ Buch, 1622, Fletcher (Beaumont died 

1616). C. 
Begyar's os a ald Gay. C.O. (musie by Lin- 
yr usch adapted music to this 


enc 1645, Rotrou. T. 

Bolisariua, 1757-1823, Kemble. 

Bellamerv Earl of Carlinle, ** T. 

Relle Arsene (/a), 1776, Favart. 0.C. (music 
by Monsigny). 

Relle Helene (/.a), 1865, Offenbach. 0.C. 

Belic’s Stratagem (The), 1780, Mrs. Cowley. C. 

Bells (Tie), 1874, Erckmann-Chatrian, adapted 
from The Polish Jew (q.¥.). 

Belphegur, 1956,C. Webb and L. Buckingham. 
PD (translated from the French of Deanery 
and Fournier). 

Belaha-var, 1821, Milman. CID. 

Benevolent Tur (Tre), * Cross. Mu.E. 

Benyowski, 1811, Kotzebue. (The English vere 
aion is called The Virgin of the Sun.) 

Bérenice. 1670, Racine. T. (the hero and 


hervine meant fur Louis XIV. and Henrietta 
of England). 

Bertram, 1816, Maturin. T. (copyright was 
£525). 


Bertrand «t Raton, 1433, Scribe. C. 

Betay, 1579, Burnird (from the French). 

Better Late than Never, before 1814, we. C. 

Beverley, 1748, Suurin =D. 

Bianca, 1817, Engetnann. T. 

Bianca, 159, Bulfe. O. 

Rickeratafs Burying, 1710, Cenilivre 

Byou Perdu, 1355, Adam. Pt. Pe. (ulbretto by 
Deforges). 

By. Taylor, 19th ornt., Backstone. 

19th cent., Kubertaon. C. 

Birth of Merlin, te62, Rowley. G 

Biter (Th), 1706, Rowe. C. 

Black Pemine, i441, an English version of 
Seribe’'s Le Dumino Nore, 1837, 0.C, 

Black-Eved Susan, Us22, Jerrold. N.D. 

Black Horse (Tie), before 1620, Fletcher, PL 
(See * Palwmon and Arcyte.”) 

Black Prince, 1669, lord Orrery,  FLLPL 

Blackuess, 1616, Jonson, C, 

Blighe d Bing («. 19th cent., Tom Taylor. 

Blind Bargain, 1765-1541, Reynolds. 

Bl-nd Beggar on Ate ‘xandria, 1698, Chapman. Pl. 
Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green, 1659, Day. CG 
* Beggar of Hh thoal Green.”) 

Bind Girl 1-01, Morton. Cy 

Bloody Brother, 16.29, Hexumont and Fletcher. T. 

Blot on the ‘Ncutchess, 19th cent. R. Browning. T. 

Blue fteard, 1797, Sedaine. C.O. (music by 
Gretiy ). 

Plue Reard, 1794, Colman. Mu.Sp. (music by 
Kelly). 

Beadiccs. 1783, Glover T. 


Bobemian Girl, 1844, Ralfe, O, (burlesqued by 
H. J. Byron in The Bohemian Gyurt). 
Bobemiuns or Rogues of Paris, 1363, Stirling. D, 

Bobemienne, 1862, St. Georges. 0.C. 

Buite d’ Argent, 1 Dumas fils. C. 

Bold Strok e for a Husbund, 1782, Mre. OCowe 

y. U. 

Bold Stroke for a Wife, 1717, Centlivre. G 

Bombasus Furioso, 1790, Rhodes. F. 

Bon Fils, 1785, Florian, C. 

Bon Menage, 1782, Florian. C, 

Hon Pere, 1783, Florian. 

Boo Ton, 1760, Burgoyne. 

Bon Tun, 1776, Garrick. F. (tbe above cu 

Bondman (The), 1623, Masainger and Field. 

Buondman (The), 1780, Cumberland. 

Bondman (The), 1408-1870, Balfe. O. 

Bunduca, 1647, Beaumont and Fletcher. T. 
(converted by Thomas Sheridan into a 
spectacie). 

Bonne Mére, 1784, Florian. C. 

Bothwell, © Ware. D. 

Bourgeots Gentilbomme, 1670, Molfére. C, 

Hourgeoises a-la-Mude, 1654, Dancoart. CGC 

Bourse (/.a), 1456, Punsard.  F. 

fox Lobby Challenge ( The), 1794,Cumberland. ©, 

Be.x und Cox, 1764-1638, Morton. F. 

Bradimante, 1580, Garnier. T. 

Brug.nza (The Duke of), 1786, Jephson. T. 

Bravo (The), 1833, Huckstone. MeL (Coopes*s 
novel drumatized). 

Breach of Promise, 19th cent., Robertson. CO, 

Bride (The), 18038, Korner. . 

Bride of Messina, 1403, Schiller. T. 

Bride’s Tragedy (The), 1822, Beddues. T. 

Brides of Aragon (The), 1423, Beer. T. 

Brier Cliff, 1542, George Morris, D, 

Brighton. (See * Saratoga.”) 

Britannicus 1669, Racine. T. 

Broken Heart, 1633, Ford. T. 

Brother Sam, 19th cent., Oxenford, Sothera, ane 
Buck-tone. C. 

Rrother and siater, 1633, Ford. T. 

Brothers (The), before 1642, Shirley. PL 

Brothers (7h), 1752, Young. T. 

Brothers ( The), 1769, Cumberland, C, 

Brutus, about 1690, Miss Bernard. T. 

Brutus, 1730, Voltiire. T. 

Brutus Junius). 1783, Alfieri. T. 

Brutus (Junius), 142%, Andrieax. T, 

Brutus , Lucias Junius), 1679, Lee. ‘T. 

Brutus (Lucius Junius), 17384, Duncombe, T. 

Brutus (Mrrcus), 1783, Alfie ‘1. T. 

Brutus and Cassius, 1764-1811, Chénier, T. 

See * Conapiracy of Brutus.’’) 

Bruture or The Fall of ‘Tarquin, 1820, Payne. T. 

Bubbles of the Duy, 1842, Jerrold. C. 

Bufioon Sir Hercules), 1622-1681, Lacy. OQ. 

Bull. “John Bull.’ ? 

Bury Fain 1689, Shidwelf. C. 

Busiria, 1719, Young. T. (copyright was £84). 

Busey d'Ambois, 1603, Chapman. T. 

Bus Body ( The), 1703, Centlivre. C, 

y Royal Command, 19th cent., uring C. 

Byrn: e Cunspiracy, 1604, Chapman. 


Cabal and Love, 1783, Schiller. T. 
Cadi Dupé (/+), 1761, Monsigny. 0.C. 
Celina or T’Enfant du Mystére, 1800, Guflbers 
de Pixérécourt, Mel. A 
D 





DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 


Cleopatra, 1601, Naniel. T. 

Cleopatra, 1773, acted 1775, Alfieri. T. 

CiéopAtre, 1630, Mairet. T. 

Cleupatre, 1750, Marmontel. T. 

Cléupatre Captive, 1550, Judelle. T. (Antony 
at.d Cleopatra, 160%, Shakespeare. T.) 

Ciitandre, 1632, Corneille. 

¢( lusecrie des Genita Ata 1846, Soulié. Dz. 

Clotilde, 1832, Suulié. T. 

Clytemnentra, 1423, Deer. T. 

CGekle. (See “Sir John Cockle at Court.’’) 

Cocu I naire, 1660, Moliére. C. 

Colinett: a la Cur, lsth cent... Grétry. 0. 

Colleen Buwn, 1860, Boucicault. C. 

Columbua, 1798, Morton. H PL. 

Comeédienne (1a), 1816, Andrieax. C. 

Comédiens (128), 1819, Delavigne. C. 

Comedy of Errura, 1593, Shakerpeare. C. (first 
mention 1598). 

Comical Gallant, 1707, Dennis. C. Greet is The 
Meiry Wives of Windsor, by & peare, 
1596, new net.) 

Comical Lovers (The), 1671-1757, C. Cibber. C. 


copyright was £10 15s.). 

Feet fst 1664, Extherege. C. 

Comminnary (The), 1765, Fuote. F. 

Cummittee (Te), 1670, Howard. C. (See 
“Hon et [hiever.”) 

Common Conditions, 1576, © C. 

Complaint of Koxamond, 1562-1619, Daniel. T. 

Comte d'Ory (42), 1428, Scribe. 0. 

Comtcase d'l-acarbagnas, 1672, Moliére. C. 

Comus, 1631, Milton. M. (mus:c by Lawes). 

Comua, 17:8, Arne. 0. 

Conficderacy (Tar), 1705, Vanbrugh. C. 

Confederates ( The), abewut 1720, Breval. Rut.D. 

Conquest of Granada, 1670, Dr He.PL 

Qonrad, 1772, Magnocavalle.  Pr.T. 

Conscience or The Bridal Night, 1%23, Haynes, 

Conscious Lovers ( Tre), 1722, Steele. C. 

Conseiller Rapporteur (/~), 1841, Delavigne. C, 

Conspiracy (The), 1612-1690, H. Killigrew. T. 

Conspiracy ( The), 1729, Jephson. T. 

Couspiracy of Hrutu-, 1691, Antoni. T. (See 
* Julius Cosar.”’) 

Conspiracy of the Mazzi, 1783, Alfieri. T. 

Constant Couple ( The', 1700, Farquhar. C. 

Contes de la Keine de Navarre (Les), 1860, Scribe 
and Legouve. 

sonics blection (The), 19th cent., Tom 
Taylor. 

Contract ( The), 1720, T. Franklin. C. 

Contrivances (The), 1715, Carey. Bd.O. 

Qunvivaito de Piedra, 1626, lireo de Molino, 
whore name was Telies. C. (This te the 
original of all the Lum Juans.) 

Coplite . The Grand), 1792, Goethe. C,. 

Qoqnette (The \, before 1766, Molloy. Cc. 

Cnjunette du Village, 1715, Dufresny. C. 

Coresus et Callirhoe, 1696, lafusse. T. 

Caviolan, 1781, Labarpe. T. 

Curivlanus, 1610, Shake«peare. T. (See “In- 
vader of His Country.’’) 

Corivlanus, 1747, Thomson. T. 

Cornelia, 1594, Kyd. T.(from UGarnier’s tragedy 
Cornel: \. 

Cornélie, 1591, Garnier. T. 

Cornette Jaune, 1864, Carmouche = C. 

Cyrunathon (The), 17th cent, cither J. Fletcher 
or Shirley. C. 

Corsaire ( The), 1356, Adam, B 





Sn yr SOP 


1188 





Corsican Brothera, 1848, Boucicault. D. 
wee reat notas Martini. v (The ae 
version led The Si Belgrade. 

Cosi Fan Tutte, 1790, Mozart. "o. 

Cuoamo de Medici, iaz7, Horne. T. 

Count Egmont, 178%, Goethe. T. 

Count of Narbonne, 1765, Jepheon. T. (Walk 
pole’s Castle of Utranto dramatized). 

Counte-s of salisbury, 1767, Hartson. T. 

Country Attorney (Zhe), 1793, Cumberland. (©. 

Country Gil ( The), 17th cent., Brewer. C. 

Coun ry Girl ( 7Re), 18th cent., Garrick. CG 
(altered frum The Cuuntry Wife, by Wy- 
cherly). 

Cuuntry House, 1715. Vanhbrugh. F. . 

ies Wife, 1676, Wycherly. C. 
“The Cuuntry Girl.”’) 

Conragevus Turk, 1632, Goff. T. 

Courter of Lyons, 1852, Stirling. D. 

Courunne de Bluets, 1836, Houseaye. 

Court Heggar ( The). about 1646 Brome. C. 

Courtley Nice (ser), 1685, Crowne. C. 

Covivandy de Pedro. (See “ Convivado,” etc.) 

Coxcomb (The), pusthumous 1647, Beaumont 
and Fletcher. C. 

Cozenets (Th: ), about 1760, Forte. F. 

Creation (The), 1798, Haydn. Or. 

Creusa, 1754, Whitehead. T. 

Crispin Gentilhomme, 1640-1635, Ant. J. Mont- 
fleury. C. 

Critic (The), 1779, Sheridan. A. (“Sir Fret 
ful Pligiary ° is meant for Cumberland.) 


(See 


Critique (/a), 1662, Mullére. C. 
Crociato tn tto (/1), 1825, Meyerbeer. Q 
Cromwell, 1827, Victor Hugo. H.PL (See 


** Charles I.’") 
Purpuses, 1442, O'Brien. F. 
Crown Piamende, 1842 (English version of 
dramants de la Couronne, g.v.). 
Cruel Gif, 1707, Centlivre. 
Crutch and Touthpick, 1*79, Sims. B. 
Cupid and Campaape, 1563, Lyly. L.D. 
Cupid ami! Payché, 19th cent, Miiller. L.D. 
Cupid's Revenge,1615, Beaumont and Fletcher. C. 
Cure for Romance, 1419, Thomeon. C. 
Cure for the Heartiche, 1411, Morton. C. 
Cure of Saul, 1770, Arnold. 0, 
Curfew (The), 1770-1904, Tobin. Pt. 
Custum of the Country, portbumous 1647, 
Beaumout and Fictcher. 
Cutter of Coleman Street, 1644, Cowley. C. 
Cymbeline, 1605, Shak Ae 
Cymon, 1716-1779, Garrick. D.R. 
Cymon ard Iphigenia, 1631-1701, Dryden. 
Cynthla’s Revels, 1600, Jonson. 
Cy: us the Great, abuut 1695, Banks. T. 


DNeddy O'Dowd, 19th cent., Boucicanlt, Ib. 

Daisy Farm (The), 1-71, H. J. Byron. Dom.D, 

Dame Blanche (/a), 1529, Boieldieuw. 0.C. 
(libretto by Scribe). 

Dame Medeciu (/a), 1640-1685, Ant. J. Mont- 
fleury. C. 

Dame Vutlée, 1832, Balfe. O. 

Dame aura Camélian, 144s, Damas fle. C. 

Dames Capitaines (12a), 1457, ReLer. 0. 

Papreer lt & Marier (La), befure 1822, Srribe. 
Pole. 

Damon and Iythias, 1566, Edwardes. T. (Gee 
“ Ferrex and Purrex.”’) 








DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 


Double Falsehood, 1721, Theobald. 

Double Gallant, 1707, Cibber. C. (copyright was 
£16 28 Gd.). 

Double Marriage, 1647, Reaunmont and Fletcher. 

Double Veuvage, 170}, Dufreany. C. 

Double or Quits, (See * Quittr,” ete.) 

Douglas, 1756, Home. T. (based on the tale of 
(tl Morice). 

Dragun of Wantley, 1715, Carey. B.O. 

Draguns de la Keine, 1441, Decovurcelle. C. 

Draguons ( The), 1879, Hersee. (This is an Eng- 
liah version of Des Dragons de Villars, a 
comic opera by beara ae 

Drama of Exile, 1x50, E. B. Browning. 

Dramatist ( The), 1765-1341, Reynolds. C. 

Drames du Cabaret, 1864, Dumanvir. D. 

Dream at Sea, te-fure 1334, Bucktone, Mel. 

Dreams, 19th cent., Robertson. C. 

Drink, 1%79, C. Read. D. (frum L’ Assommotr, by 
Mons, Zola, 1378). 

Druid or The Vision of Fingal, 1815, ‘Thomson. 

Drummer ( he), 1715, Addisun. C. 

Duchesa de la Valliére, 1336, Lytton. T. 

Ducheas of Guise, 1x35, Flotow. O. 

Duchess of Malfy, 1623, Webster. T. 

Duenna (The), 1775, Sheridan. Op.C. (music 
by Linley). 

Duke of Braganza, 1785, Jephson. T. 

Duke of Cruise, 1642, Dryden. T. 

Duke of Lerma, * Robert Howard. 

Duke of Millaine, 1623, Massinger. T. (imita- 
tion of Shakespeare's Othello). 

Duke’a Mistreaa, 163%, Shirley. 

Dumb Knight, 1633, Machin. 

Dumb Lady, 1622-161, Lacy. C. 

Dundreary Married and Done for (Lord), 19th 
cent., H. J. Byron and Sothern. C. (See 
* Tord Dundreary.”’) 

Dupe (The), 1765, Mra. Sheridan. C. 

Dupe. (See Who's the Dupe :°") 

Duplicity, 1781, Holcroft. & 

Dutch Courtesan (The), 1605, Marston. C. 


Earl Godwin, 1796. Anne Yearsley. T. 

Earl of Kavex, 1674, 'h. Corneille. T. (Aeser). 

Earl of Manex, 1690, Banks. T. 

Fart of Eases, 1745, Jones. T. 

Earlof Huntingdon. (Sec “Death of Robert... 

Earl of Warwick, 1767, Dr. T. Franklin. T. 
(Nee * Warwick."’) 

Earl of Westmoreland, 1765, H. Brooke. T. 

Bast Indian. 1500, Lewia, C 

Eastward Hoe! 1605, Jonson, Chapman, etc. 
Sat.D. (to ridicule the Scotch). 

Eccentric Love, 1399, Cuinberland. C, 

Echo et Narcisse, 177%, Glick. O, 

Echiir, (Sew * L'rchaire.”) 

Eoule. (see |,’ cule."") 

Ecuasaie (1’), 1766, Voltaire C. (in which 
Fréeron is gibbeted). 

Edith, before 1-09, Dounman. T. 

Baiward 1., 1593, Peele. HPL 

Edward IJ., 1592, Marlowe. H.T. (Shakespeare's 
Kichard I. ia in imitation of it, 1697.) 

Edward IV., in two parts, 17th cent., Heywood. 
H.PI. 

Edward and Eleonora, 1739, Thomeron. 

Edward the Black I‘rince, 1640, Shirley. 

Elwin, 1674~1765, Jefferys. T. 

Gdwir the Fair, 1843, Taylor. H.D. 


T. 
H.T. 











1141 


Edwy and Elgiva, 1795, Mde. D’Arblay. T. 

ont (Count), 1788, Goethe, T. 

vi, 1816, Bishop. 0. 
Elder Brother, 1637, Beaumont and Fletcher. 
Elfrid or ‘The Fair Jnconstant, 1710, Hill. 
Elfrida, 1752, Mason. T. 
Elfrida, 1856, Balfe. O. 
El Hyder, * Barrymore. G.E.MeLS. 
Elijah, 1846, Mendelssohn. Or. 
Elisa, 1794, Cherubini. O. 
Elisca, Ith cent., Grétry. 0. 
Elixir d’ Amour (L’). 1845, Dunisetti. 0. 
Ellen Warcham, about 13834, Buckstons. BR 

(writaen for Mrs. Yates). 
Elmerick, 1739, Lillo. T. 
Elves (The), 1835, Heiberg. Fy.C. 
Elvira, 1760, Maliet. T. 
Eqmilla Galottl, 1772, Leasing. T. 
Emma, 19th cent., Hers. D. 
Emma di Resburgo, 1820, Meyerbeer. 0. 
Emperiques (/.es), 169%, De Brueys. C. 
Emperor of the Rust, 1634, Anon. 
Empress of Morucoo, 1644-1724, Settle. T. 
En avant les Chinois! 1858, Labiche. C. 
Enchantress ( TA-), 19th cent , Balfe. O. 
Endimione, 1721, Metastasio. Ma.D. 
Endymivn and the Man in the Moon, 1581, 

aly. Myt.D. 
Enfant du Peuple (Un), 1847, Labrousse. C. 
Enfants d' Edouard (/<s), 1833, Delav H.D. 
English Fleet, 1759-1802, Arnuld. u.D. 
English Gentieman (TAc), 19th cent. H. J. 
n 


. C. 
English Merchant, 1767, Colman. C. 
English Princess or Death of Riehard III., 1712, 


Caryl = T. 
English Traveller (1% 1633, Heywood. T.C. 
Englishman tn Paris, 1763, Foote. F. 


Englisbouwn returned from Paria, 1757, Foote. F. 
Enrico di Borgogna, 1918, Donizetdl. 0. 
Enseignement Mutuel, 1846, Nus. C. 

Envies de Mde. Gudard, 18418, Curmouche, C, 
Epicharis et Neron, 1793, Legouvé. T. 
Epiccene c The Silent Woman, 1600, Jom 


eon. 

Epsom Wells, 1673, Shadwell. C. 

Erigone, 1677-1754, Lagrange. T. 

Enk VIE., 19th ant., Boje. T. 

Eriphyle, 1732, Voltaire. T. 

Erniina or The Cha-te Lady, 1670, Flecknos. BD. 

Ernant, 1830, Victor Hugo. R.T. 

Ernani, 1441, Verdi. O. 

Esclave de Camoéna, 1843, Flotow. O. 

Esmeralda, 1833, Victor H R.D. (Aa 
English version by H. J. Byron.) 

Eaperidi (¢stt Orti), 1122, Metastasio. O. (music 

ra 


y Porpora). 
rit de Contradiction, 1700, Dufresny. F. 
Ee (See “ Eurl of Es.ex.”) 
Esther, 1689, Racine. 8.T. 
Esther, 1720, Handel (first performance 
1732). Or. 
Esule di (Granada, 1823, Meyerbeer. OQ. 
Etéocle, 1799, Legouvé. T. 
Etoile de Nord (/."), 1854, Meyerbeer. OV. 
(libretto by Scribe). 
Etolle de Seville (2.’), 19th cent., Balfe. O. 
Etourdis (es), 1788, Andricux. C. 
Eugene Aram, 1331, W. G. Wills. D, (lord 
Lytton's novel dramatized). 
Eugénie, 1767, Besumarchais. D. 





DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 





F¥l« Ingrats 00 L'rcole dea Péres, 172%, Piron. C. 

Pus > ae 1757, Diderot. C. (See “ Natural 
Son.’ 

Fils de Famille ((n\, 1453, Bayard and Bieville. 
C. (See * The Discanted Sun.’”) 

File de la Nuit, 1457, Sejour. dD. 

FAls du Diable, Iné60, Deadde. D. (See “Fille 
du Diable.”’) 

Financier et le Savetier (/2), 1%h cent, Offen- 
bach. O.BF. 

Fine-trina (/2), posthumeus 1806, Alfieri. C. 
(scene laid in hell). 

Finta Giandiniera (/a), 1774, Mozart. O. 

Fivle de Cagliostro , La), 1835, Ble ita D. 

First Floor (The), 1766-1314, Cobb. F. 

Firat Love, 1793, Cumberland. C. 

Fleurvtte, 1833, Lubrousse, C. 

Flitch uf Recon, 1778, Dudley. Mu.F. (music 
by Shield). 

Flitting Day (The), 19th cent., Hers. D. 

Florinda, 1699, Handel. QO. 

Flowers of the Forest, 1847, Backstone. R.D. 

Flying Dutchman, about 1430, Fitsball. Mel. 

Flying Scud, 1-64, Hoacicault. D. 

Fultenr Amoure:.aen, 1704, rd. C. 

Follies of a Day (The), 1745-1409, Holcroft. C. 

Fully as it Files, 1765—1541, Reynolds. C. 

Fontainble au, 1767-1433, O'Keefe. 

Fool of Quality, 17th cent., Poienun. C. 

Fool's Revenge (Tac), 19ib cent., Tom Taylor. 

Fupling Flutsr (Sir), 1676, Etherege. C. 
(sevond title of The Man of Mode). 

Forced Marriage (The), 1758, Armstrong. T. 

Fui gery, 1833, Buckstune. Mel. 

Formoaa, 19th cent., Buucicault. 

‘ortreswe du Danube (la), 1805, Guilbest de 
Pixerécuurt. Mel. 

Fortunate Islea, 1626, B Jonson. M. 

Furtunatus (Gld) or The Wishing-Cap, 1600, 
Dekker. C. 

Fortune's Fuol, 1765-1841, Reynolds. C. 

Furtune s Frolic, about 1800, Alingham. PF. 

Fortunes of Nigel, air W. Scott’s novel 1822, 
dramatiz d by A. Halliday. 

Fowcan (/ -due), 19th cent., Verdi. 0. 

Foswari (7% ), 1826, Mi-s Mitchell. H.T. 

Fos art (The Tro, 121, Byron. H.T. 

Foul Play, 19th cent., C. Reade 

Foundling (--e), 1742, E. Moore. oe 

Foundling of the Fureat, © Dimood. 

Four I’. (/’almer, Pardoner, Potioary, | pallens: 
1530, J. Heywood. Int. 

Four Plays fn Une, p-sthumous 1647, Beaumont 
ard Fl-teher. C. 

Four Urentices of London, 1632, Heywood. H.PL 

Four Sons of Aymon, 143, Balfe. O. 

Gourb ries de Scapin, 1671, Muliere. C. (See 
“ Cheats of Scapin.”’) 

Fox. (see * Vulpone.’’) 

Fra Inav- lo, 1x30, Auber. 0.C. (libretto by 
Scribe). (Fra Diavolo, by H. J. Byrua.) 

Francis [., 1824, F. A. Kemble. H.P1. 

Francots I. & Madrid, 1426, Brifaut. T. 

Fredolpbo, lal’, Maturin. 

Frevthinker (The), 1774, Leasing. 

Fr saio (ier), 1322, Weter. 0. iteette by 

Kind 


). 

Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay, 15°%, Greene. C. 
(first acted in 1591, hret printed 1694), 
Fugitive ( Tac), befure 1903, J. Richardeun. G 

Paeneral us Grief a-la- Move, 1101, Reale. C. 





1148 


Gageure Imprévue (La), 1772, Sedaine. C. 
Galant Jariinier, 1667, Dancourt. C. 
Gallanthea, 1592, Lyty. 


Galotti. (See “ Emilia Galotti.”) 
Game at Chess, 1631, Middleton. Pl. 
Game uf § lation, 19th cent., Sl 


ingsbdy 

Lawrence (i.¢. G. H. Lewes). (See “ Speca- 
lation.” ) 

Gumester eC 1637, Shirley. T. 

Game:-ter (The), 1709, Centlivre, T. 

Gamester (The), 1753, E. Moore. T. 

Gaummer Grurtun’s Nedle, 1651, Mr. 8. Master 
of Arts (naid tw be bishop Sul; bat he was 
under nine vears :f age at th date given. 
It was acted in 1575, when Still was 32. 
Thia was vur # condcmedy). (See * Rolin 
ter Doister” and © Mesogunus.” 

Garcon de Ferme (L-}, 1461, Brixebarre. D 

Gay Decd vers, 1Hu4, Colman. F. 

Gueza Laura (/a), 1517, Rossini. C.0. 

Gemma di Vergi. 1336, ‘Donizetti. oe 

Genervas Conquer-r, 1702, Higgn 

Genevieve di Brabant, 19th cent., On. f-nbach. C0. 

Gentle arate 1725, Ramsay. P, (altered in 
17¥6, ee ong 

Gentleman Jancing- Master, 1673, Wycherly. C. 

Gentleman Usher, 1617, Chapman. c. 

Gentleman of Alsatia (TRe), 1648, Shadwell. C. 
(som: tines called The let ey dteotte): 

Genviere, befure 1822, Scribe. 

George Barnwell, 1730, Lillo. T = 

George Dandin, 1664, Meliere. C. 

rven, 1547, Greene. C. 
Geta, 1657, Pechantre. T. 
or Blas, 1750, E. erat C. S = 
mee yay Don), 1747, Mozart. (libretto 
Hie acer § (See * Don Juan. ha ened 

Gicane (Dum), 1839, Lardor. ( 
Glovanni.”’) 

Giovannt ti. London, 1687-1770, M«merteff. O.Ex, 

Warning, 1838, Benedict. 0. 

meh da, 1850, Adum. 0O.C. 

Girl's Romance (A), 1279, Boucicault. D. 

Girls (The), 1879, H. a Byron. C. 

Ginéle, 1341, Adam. 

Giulio Sabino, 1781, Seri 0. 

Giulio Sabino, 1744, Cherubint. 0. (a pupil ef 
Sarti). 

Giuseppe, 1732, Meta-tasio. Q. 

Giuatino, 1712, Metastasio. T. (aged 14). 

Gladisateur, 1541, Altenbeim. T. 

Glenove, 1440, Alford. T. 

Gli Ortl Esperidi. (See “ Orth...) 

Guing to the Bad, 19th cent., Tum Taylor. 

Gold- Mine td Miller of Grenoble, 1864, Stir- 
ling. 1. 

Golden Pippin, 1768, O’ Hara. 

Goud-Natured Man (Te), 1768, Goldsmith. C. 

Goud Suldier ( The), about 1640, from R. Poisson. 

Goud for Noghiog. 1451, Buckstone. C.D. 

Gorbuduc. (See “ Ferrex and Porrex. “) 

Gotham Election, 1715, Centlivre. C. 

Gotz von Rerlichingen, 1773, Goethe. D. (trame- 
lated by sir W. Scott). 

Gracchus, 1792, Chénier. T. (See “Calo Graceo.”> 

Gracchus (Caius), 1815, Knowles. H.T. 

Gracchus beutuer le25, Monti. H.T. 

Grand Cophte. (See ** Cophte.”) 

Goce rvant, lk Sedge & kas 

reat mir ( The), 1#79 sigh. (mums 
by Leoocg ; the French). 


Guaniiun (The), 1639, Massinger. C. (altered in 
1759, by Garrick). 

Guebrs, 1762, Voltaire. T. 

Guglielmy Fell. (see “ Tell.’) 

Gustave IIT., 1433, Scribe. QO. 

Gustave or Le Napulituin, 1925, Anicet Bour- 
gevis. 

Guatavus V ana, 1733, Pirun. T. 

Gustavus Vasa, 1739, Bruuke. T. 

Gustavus Vasa, 1797, Kutz-bue. T, 

Guy Mannering, isi6, Terry. Mu.Pl. (music 
by Bishop). AS his is a dramati vere 
sion of sir . Scott’s novel so called, 
1815.5 


Habit de Cour, 1818, Antler. D. 

Haine ¢ d’'Une Fennme (La), before 1822, Scribe. 
Pe 

Half. Pay Officer, 1706-1767, Molloy. | C. 

Halidun Hill, 1422, sir W. Scott. 
sketch, in three acta, 

Hamilet Prince of Peumark, 1596, Shakespeare. 
T. (printed 1603) 

Handsome Hernanl, 1579, H. J. Byron. B. 

Happiest Iuy of My Life (The), 19th cent. 
tu. katune. 

Ha: lekin Patriot (The), 1772, Ewald. D. 

Harvld, 1=75, fenunysun. HPL 

Harry Gaylove (80), 1772. Miss Marshall, C. 

Hartford Bridge, 1754-1"29, Shichd. Mu.F. 

Haunted [ower (7he), 1793, Cobb. Mu.D. 
(ausic by Storace! 

Hayeee, 1547, Auber. QO. 

He Would if He Could, 1764, Bickerstaff. C. 

Hes Much te Blame, 1790, Heleroft CG 

Heaven and Earth, isly, Byron. Mys. 

Heir-at-Liw (The), ivi, Colman, C. (See 
* Lord's Wartiungpan.”*) 

Heir of Vironl, 1317, ucock. Mu.D. (music by 
Ww bittuker). 

Heiress ( The), 1731, Burgoyne. C. 

Helen and Dans, 1763, Gliick, O. (libretto by 
Coalzstegs ). 

Helping Huatmds, 19th cent., Tom Taylor. 

Heivetins, 1802, Andrivux, C, 








DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 





1145 





Hoe or the Home (fhe), 19th cent, Tom 
ar. 
Housekeeper (The), 1835, Jerrold. C. (a story 
of Jacubite times). 
Ilow to Grow Rich, 1765-1841, Reynolds. C. 
Magner (Ls), 1533, Meyerbeer. O. (Ubretto 


Hultre et lee ti "laideurs (/2), 1769, Sedaine. 0.C. 

Humuvuriet (The), 1671, Shadwell. C. 

Humourvus Licutenant, pusthumous 1647, 
Beaumont end Fletcher. C. 

Hunchback ( The), 1831, Knowles. C. 

Hurlo-Thrumbo, 1729, 3. Jobneun. F. (not 
Dr. S. Jobnson). 

Huron (/2), 1769, Marmontel. O. (music by 
Gretry). 

Husband "Hits Own Cuckold, 18th cent, C. 
Dryden. C. 

Husbund at Sight, 19th cent., Bockstone. 

Huseard de Feltheim, 1827, Dupenty. 

Hussites (The), 1761-1819, Kotzelue. D. 

Hypucrite (The), 1764, Bickerstaff. C. (This is 

The Nunjuror modernized, 1706; and The 

Nonjeror is an English version of Molidre’s 
Turtuffe, 1664.) 

Ryppolyte, 1733, Rameau. O. 

Hyppelytuy, 15<1, Studley. T. (Seneca’s play 
done into English). 

Hyrden af ‘Tolo~a, 19th cent., Ingemann, 

Hyren the Fuir Grek, 1534, Peele. 


Idie Business or Man who has no Time, 1750, 
Holberg. C. 

Idomeneo, 1781, Mozart. 0. 

If 1 baud a Thouaund a Year, 1764-1838, Mor- 


ton. C. 

Ingenia | in Aullde, 1788, Cherubini. O. (See 
* Tphigenia.’ 

Hl B-ginni Re) od End (An), 1613, Ford. C 

Hl- l'rea ted {1 Trovatore, 1455, H. J. Byron. F. 

Ullustrious Stranger, 1772-1849, Kenney. C. 

Puimanie lt, 1853, Leslie. Or. 

Iinpertinent (The), 1750, Deemahis. F, 

Important de Cour (2'), 1693, De Brueys. C. 

Impostor (The), 1759, Cumberland. C. 

Impromptu de Campagne (Z'), 17th cent. R. 
Poisson. C. 

Lmprumpta dv I Hotel de Condé, 1664, Mont- 
fleury. C. (written in rivalry of Moliere’s 
Impromptu de Ve. suilles). 

Impromptu de Veraallles, 1663, Muliére. C. 

tn Quarantine, © Ware. C. 

Inconstant (TA-), 1702, Farqubar. C. 

Indlan Emperor, 1665, Dryden. He. PL 

Indiin n Quen ( The), 1664, Dryden and Howard. 


Indias in | England (The), 1761-1819, Kotze- 

ue. 

Indiscret (/."), 1725, Voltaire. C. 

Jnea de Castro, 1723, Lamutte. T. 

Inca de Cordoue, 1696, Bernard. T. 

Inez de Castro, 1590, Ferreira. T. 

Infleaible Captive (The), 1774, H. More. TP. 

Ingranne Jnfelice, 1812, Rowini. 0. 

Inkle and Yarico, 1747, Colmin. Mu.P1. 

Ino et Melicerte, 1677-1754, Lagrange. T. 

Insutiate Countess (The), 1613, Marston. T. 

Inavivent (The), 1733, Hill. 

Intrigue and Love, 1783, Schiller. T. (Kabale 
und Liebe) 


In ng Chambermaid, 1738, Fielding. F. 
lnvaaee of Hia Country, 1709, Dennis. T. 
(This is Shak 8 Coriolanus reset.) 

Invincibles (The), 1820, Morton. Cc 

Ion, 1°03, Schlegel. CLP. 

Ion, 1835, Talfuurd. Ci.T. 

Ipermestra, 1744, Metastasio. O. (written in 


Iph ria Aula 1776, Glick. 0. (libretto by 


gi 
Ipbigenia tn lauris, 1779, Glick. O. (libretes 
P by Calzabigi). 


Iphigenia in Tauris, 1786, Goetbe. C1.D. 

Iphigenia in Tauria, 1792, Piccini. 0. 

Iphigénie, 1637, Rotrou. Ci.D. (imitated from 
the Iphigenia of Euripidde). 

Iphigénie, 167 1674, Racine. CI.D.(in imitation ef 


ripidés). 

Iphigénte (Sacrifice d’ 1861, |, Dennery. Ci.D 
Iraty (L”), 1807, Mébul. 0.8. 

Irene, 1749, Jobneon. T. 

Irish Lion (The 19th cent., Buckstone. 


Irish Widow (Tac), 1757, Garrick. F. 
Irlandaie (L") ou L'Esprit National, 1831, 
Antler. 


Iron Age, 1532, Heywood. C. 

Iron Chest, 1796, Colman. Mu.D. (music ty 
Storacre). 

Inaac Comnenus, 1830, H. Taylor. 

Isabella or The Fatal Marriage, 1692, Southerne. 
T. (same as /ulal Marriage 

Isabelle ct Gertrude, 1th conten cent. , Uréery. Oo. 

Ieabelle or Woman's Life, about 1836, Buck. 
stone, . 

Island Princess, posthumous 1647, Beaummoss 
and Fletcher. 

Tele of Palme (The), 1812, Wilson. 

Iaracl in Feype 17: 1738, Handel. Or. 

Tané, 1699, 

Issipile, 1732, Metantanio 0. 

Istamine, 1%17, Victor Hugo. CLT. 

Jtallana en Algeri, 1413, Rossini. O. 

It’s Never too Late to Mend, 1878, Reade. C 
(the novel so called dramatized). 


Jack Drum’s Entertainment, 1601, Anca. C 


Jack Juggler, abuut 1635, Anon on the 
oe of Plautus). = Amphb 


Jalous (ay 1708, Dafresny. 

Jaloux I ¥eabusé (le), 1708, Campistron. (. 

James IV., pocthumous 1594, (ireene, HPL 

Jane Grey (lady). (See “Or “Grey.”) 

Jane Shore, is y opyright was 
£50 15s. 

Jane Shore, 19th cent., W. G. Wills. 

Junet’s Pride, 19th cent., Boucicault. Sen.D. 

Janetta, 1840, Auber. 0. 

Jardinier (/¢), 1771, Sedaine. 0O.C. 

Jealous Lovers (Tre), before 1630, » Randolph. a 

Jealous Wife (The), 1761, Colman the G 
(from Fielding's Tum Jones). 

Jean Ducier, 1876, Lomon. T. 

Jean de Paria, 1812, Boieliieu. 0. 

Jeannot et Colin, 1786, Florian. C, 

Jephte (Mille de), * Pleesis Mornay. 

yerne wt Finie dey de), 1814, Meyerbest. Or. 
tha, 1546, Christopherson. T 

Jephtha, 1554, Buchanan. T. 

Jephtha, 1751, Handel. Or. 








DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 


LQ ae ——— EEE 

pLife- Buoy (The), 1566 -1638, Huskins. DD 
t Heart, 1574-1637, Jonson. 

L'e du Prince Touton, 1854, Dennery. 

TAly of Killarney, 1562, Benedict. 0. 

Lily of the Desert (™ 1859, Stirling. B.D. 

Linda di Coamourni, 1542, Donizetd. 0. 

Lingua or The Five Sennes, 17th cent., Brewer. D. 

Lionel and Clarissa, 1stb cent., ickerstaff. O. 
(music by Dibdin). 

Little French Lawyer, posthumous 1647, Beau- 
mont and Fletcher = C. 

Little ed Kiding-Hvod, 19th cent., Tom Tay- 


Lock and Key, 1755-1834, Hoare (music by 

ield 

Lodviska, 1791, Kemble. Mu.D. (music by 
Storace). 

Lodoiska, 1300, Ma yer. Ma.D. 

Lohengrin, 1848, Wr er. 0. 

Lomburdl, 1843, Ve nmi. 0 

London Assurance, 1841, Fouctcault. C. 

Long Strike, luth ceut., Boucicault. D. 

Louking-Glass for Londun, ete. 1589, Greene 

Lodge. C. 

Lord Dundreary Married and Done For, 19th 
cent., H. J. Byron and Suthern. § C. 

Lord of the Manor, befure 12833, C. Dibdin, 
junior. C.O. (alten d from Iturgoyne, 1783 3 
music by Jackson). 

Lord’s Warmingpan (The), 1825 (same as 
Colman’s Heir-ut- law). 

Lorenzo, 1755-1793, Merry. T. 

Laat at Sea, 19th cent., Boucicault. D. 

Louis IX., 1819, Ancelut. T. 

Louls X1., 1832, Delavigne. H.D. (An English 
version In 1846 by Boucicault.) 

Louise de Lign: rulles, 1438, Leguavé. D. 

Love, 1840, Knowles. D. 

Los e-Chase (7:.¢), 1837, Knowles. C., 

Love Laughs at wcksinitha, 1403, Colman. FP. 

Love, Law, and Physic, 1772-1649, Kenney. 

Love Makes a Man, 1700, Cibber. C. 

Love-Riddelig (chtcalruus love), 1816, Inge- 
mann. 

Love Tricks, 1626, Shirley. C. 

Love Triumphant, 1694, Dryden. G 

Tave a-la-Mede, 1759, Macklin. F. 

Love and Police, 19th cent., Hers. V. 

Love and War, 1792, Jephson. F. 

Love at Fi-»t Sight, 1730-13805, King. | CG 

Love at a Venture, 1706, Centlivre. cy 

Love for Love, 1695, Congreve. C. 

Love in a Bottle, 1694, Farquhar. C. 

Lave in a Camp, 1747-1533, O’Keefe. C, 

Love in a Maze, 1844, Boucicault. C. 

Love in a Tub, 1664, Etherege. C. 

Love tna Village, 1763, tickerstaff. O.F. (music 
by Arne). 

Love in a Wood, 1672, Wycherly. C. 

love in the City, 1735-1787, Bickerstaff © 

Nee * Tbe Nomp.”) 

Love of King David, etc., 1536, Peele. &D. 

Love's Contrivances, 1703, Centlivre. C. 

Love's Cure, 1647, Beaumont and Fi-tcher. G 

Lave's Dinguis-a, 1834, Knowles. C. 

Dave's Dominion, 166%, Flecknoe. D.Pe. 

Love's Labour's Lost, 1594, Shakespeare. C. 
(printed 159%). 

Love's Last: SSLIAL, 1696, Cibber. c u 

Love's Mi tamurpbosia, 1553-1606 ly. Myt.D. 

Dove's Mistress, 1631, Heywood. rf 7 


=D 


ng 


‘| Love's Pil, ] Pligrimage, posthumous 1647, Beaumoné 
and Fletcher. 
Love's Riddle, 1618-1667, A. Cowley. G 
Love's Sacrifice, 1633, Ford. 
Love's Stroke of (Jenius, 19th Hers. V. 
Love’s Tricks or The School uf 
1625, Shirley. C. 
Lovers’ Melancholy, 1628, Ford. 
Lovers’ Progress, 1647, Beaumont and Fletcher. 
Lovers’ Quarrels, 1730-1305, King. Int. (See 
“ Mistake.’”) 
Lovers’ ny ie te0, Tnchbald. Pl. 1. (Retzebue'a 
1798, Anglicized 
Poe bald cleared £! co) Ply 
Lovesick King (Tae), 17th cent., Brewer. (©. 
Loyal liruther (The), 1682, Southerne. T. 
Loyal Subject, 1618, Fletcher (Beaumont @led 
161 
Lucia a Lammermoor, 1835, DonisettlL Q 
composed in six weeks). 
Lucid! (/), 1539, Angelo. C. 
Lucio Silla, 1773, Muzart. 0. Brn 
Lucius Junias Brutus. (See “ Brutas.’’) 
Lucretia Borgia, 1831, V Hues R.T. 
Lucrezia di Burgia, 1834, Donizetel. O. 
Luisa Miller, 19th cent., Verdi. 0. 
Luke the Labuurer, 1323, Buckatone. Mel. 
Lust’s Iuminion, * Marlowe (died 1693). T. 
(finished by Dekker). 
Lying Lover (The), 1704, Steele. CO, 
Lying Valet, 1740, Garrick. F. 





Ma Tante Aurore, 1802, Boieldieu. 0. 

Macbeth, 1606, a T. (musts by 
Lock, 1672). 

Macbeth, 19th cent., Verdi. 

Mad we 1617, Picccber” (Beaumont died 
1616 

Mad Lover, 1637, Massinger. 

Mad World, 1603, Beaumont and Fletcher. 

Mad World, My Masters (A), 1603, Middleton. ©. 

Madame Diogene, etc., 1854, Desarbres. C. 

Madame Favart, 1878, Offenbach. C.0. 

Madame du Barry, 1336, Ancelot. V. 

Madame du Chatelet, about 1834, Ancelot. V. 

Maestro di Capella, 1797, Dellamaria. 

Magician nu Conjurur, 1765-1798, Merry. 

Mugicienne (a), 19th cent., Halévy. 

Magnetic Lady, 1632, Jonson. 

Magnittique (2), 1672-1731, Lamotte. C, 

Mahomet, 1738, Voltaire. T. - inte 
Engliah by Miller, 1740). 

Maki Marian (The), 1422, Bishop. 

Maid in the Mill, posthumous ‘ene Beaurnont 

and Fletcher, or Rowley and Fletcher. C. 

Maid of of Artois, 1836, Bulfe. 

Maid of Bath, 1771, Foote. Fr. 

Muid of Honour, 1637, Massinger. T.0, 

Maid of Honour, 1808-1870, Balte. 0. 

Maid of Mariendorpt, 1838, Know D. . 

Maid of Milan (Ctart, the), lex, Payoe. Mu.D. 
(music by )- 

Met Ares) 1801, Schiller. T. (See Joss 
of Arc.” 

Maid of Saxony, 1842, George Morris. 0. 

Maid of the Mill, 1766, Rickerstaf. O.F. (musie 
by Arnold). (Sere “ Maid in the ai ay 

Maid of the Oaks ( The), 1779, zg. 

Maid's mctamor hosts. (See Mies Mote 


morp osis 






=" 


==. 


os 


Muid’s Tragedy, 1610, 0, Beammont and 
(Waller altered the Ofth 
Maids ond Rachelora, 1st) cemt., 5 
Malds as | hey Are, ete, 1797, 
Malden Queen (The 1667, Dryden, 
areal me (ta eae K sommre Ta 

attreen Droit (/2), 1760, Monsigniy. oc. 
Malode tmaginaire (Le). 1678, Meliete: c Ge | 
“Dr. Last in His Chariot.) “. 
Malati and Madbava, Sth cent. 
R.T. (translated by Wilson in bis Ji 
Theatre 


} - 
Male Coquette, 1758, Garrick. F. | 
Malecontent (7h), befure 1600, Mareion and — 
Mamilis, & } 
1494, Greene. - , 
Man Bewitched, 1710, Centlivre. Mary (Queen), 
Man of Howour ( The), ‘ih cent, Bouetesalt c. ry SbOore, Lee 
Man of Mi de, 1676, c. 
Man of the World, 1TH, Macklin. c. Ss orl- 
ginal title was The Freeborn 
Management, 1765-1441, Reynolds, C. 
Manfred, 1817, Byron. T. 
Manfredi, 1425, Monti, T. (4 version fn | 
French, by Duplissi«, L854.) 
—- ( Fe 1410, “4 
antiaes ror -_ Lafosse. (ira! tated 
ice Preserved). 












, : | Marae _ 


Meer 






2 
r=. - . 





1 
ee 

} 

= 

Sawterr ¥ thes a: = “2 
eee bat Op i” Unde e ‘ a, 
== ures (lei Somer Hg rr: 


’ a ae wet. 





mee 4, 


from Otw 
Maiteau (Le), 1826, Andriesz, (C. 
Manuel, 1417, Maturin. 
M .omelto Secundo, 1822, Toesint. 
Marechal Ferrent (14), 1sth cent., Philidor. Oc, 
Martciuais . I" Kno pire ( Les), 1856, Anicet Bours 


geois 
Margaret of ve 1727-1812, Jernin . TT. 
Margery or The Dragoness, 1096-1744, F. 


Marglucita Saulon isa, Meyerteer. 0. (See 
“Margaret . 
Marguerite d' d’ Anjou, 1#10, Guilbert de Pixéré- 


at ee 








——— 


DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 


Ménechmes ( es), 1705, Régnard. 

Menteur, 1642, ille. (See « Liar. ”) 

Merchant Pirate, 19th ont.,  Seitling. 

Mcrebant of Bruges, befure 1830, K ‘naira. PI 
altered trom Beaumon: and Fietcher). 

Merchant of Venice, 1598, Shakespeare. D. 

Mare Gon, are Malta”) . 
La), dae, Beaumarchale, D. 

wen, Nantes reed Jeskindes, D. 

Merlin in Love, 1759, Hill. CG. 

Merupe, 1713, Maffei. T. 

Merope, 1734, Voltaire. T. 

Merope, 1749, Jefferys or Hill (ascribed to 
buth). 

Merupe, 1783, Alfieri. T. 

Merope, 1859, Matthew Arnold. 

Merry Wives of W indsor, 1596, Shakespeare. 

(printed 1602). (See “Comical Gale 
lant.””) 

Mery Play between the Pardoner and the Frere 
(A), 1533, J. Heywood. C. 

Mesugunus, 1560, Thomas Rychardes. C. (only 
tuur acta extant), 

Measiah (The), 1741, Hand L Or. (libretto by 
Jennens). 

Metamorphuacd (iipaies 1574-1637, Jonson. C. 

Métumorpboses de | Amour, 19th cent., _ Brohan. 
C. (See * Love’s Metamo 

Métromanie ou Le Poete, 1738, Piven. Cc. 
(maid tu be the Lest comedy in the French 
language). 

Michacluias Turn, 1607, Middleton. 

Michel e¢ Cristine, before 1822, Scribe. Pt Pe, 

Mic-ocoamus, ab ut 1600, Nabbes. M. 

Midas, 1553-1600, Lyly. Myt.D. 

Midas, 1764, (’ Hara. Bita. 

Midas (Jugement de), 1741-1813, Grétry. 0. 

Midnight Hour (The), 1793, Inchbald. Pt.C. 
(realized £130). 

Midsummer Night's Dream, 1592, Shakespeare. 
Fy.C. (printed 1600). 

Midsummer Night's Dream, 1843, Mendelssohn. 

Milkraid (Te), 1771-1841, Dibdin. MuD. 

Miller and His Men, 1313, Pocock. Mel. (musio 
by Bishop). 

Miller of Manstield (The), 1737, Dodaley. D.E. 
(The second purt is Sir John Cockle ef 
Ou, rt.) 

Mines de Pologne (Les), 1803, Guilbert de 
Pixerécourt. 

Minister ( The), 1197, Lewis, T. (adapted from 
Schiller). 

Minna von Kirnhelm, 1767, Lessing. D. 

Minor (Tac), 1760, Foote. F. 

Mirandola, 121, I'ruocter. T. (copyright was 
£525). 

Mirra, 1743, Alfieri. 

Misanthrope, 1666, Moliére.  C. 

Misanthrupy and Repentance, 1797, Kotsebue. 
1. (ewlled in English Phe Stranger). 

Miser (Th. ), 1672, Shadwell. (See below.) 

Miver (The), 1707-17645, Fielding. C. (from 
I Avare by Molére, 1667). 

Mirerables (es), 1x64, Hugo, junior. D. (his 
father’s novel, 1463, dramatized), 

Misogunist (The), 1780, Lessing.  D. 

Misogunus, 1560, printed 1577, Rychardesn. OG 
(one of our earliest p . 

Mies Sarah Namaon, 1755, Lessing (masie ty 
Mendelsohn and Nicolay). 

Miss in Her Teena, 1747, Garrick. F. 








114 

Mistake (Thr), 1672-1726, Van . C (altered 
by King into Louvers’ 

Mithridute, 1673, Racine, T. (imitated from 
Euripides). 

Mithridate, 1770, Mozart. O. 

Mithridates, 1674, Lee. T. 

Mock Doctor (The 1733, Fielding. F. (This te 
Le Méedecin é Lut of Molidre, 1666, 
converted into a farce.) 

Modern Antiques, 1747-1833, O’Keefe. C. 

Mceurs de Tempe (Les), 1750, Saurin. C, 

Mogul Tule (The), ® Anon. F. 

Mols: in Egitto, 1818, Rossini. 0. 

Mon Gigut et Mon Gendre, 1861, Antier. 

Monastére Abandunna, 1816, Guilbert de Pixéré- 
court. 

Money, 1840, Lytton. C. 

Mons. Ragout, about 1669, Lacy. C. 

Mons, Thomas, 1619, Fletcher (Beaumont died 

Mons. Tonson, 1767, Moncrieff or Taylor 
(attributed to both). F. 

Mona. D’Olive, 1857-1634, Chapman. C, 

Mons, le Duc, 1¢79, Val Prinsep. PL 

Monturgis. (Nee “Chien.” 

Montezuma, 1772, Sacchini. O. 

Montfort bees). 1798, Baillie. T. (the passion 





of “ bate’ 
Montroee, Fed A838, Pocock. 
Mure Ways than One, 1755, Mrs. Cowley. 


Mort d’Abel, 1792, Leguuvé. T. (imitated trom 
Geener and Klopstock 
Mort de Calan, 1791, Chénier. T. 
Mort de Henri IV, 1806, Legouvé. T. 
Mother Bumbic, 1594, Lyl 
Mother Goose, 1771-1841, Diedin” Pn. 
Mother Pantom, 1771-1841, Dibdin. . 
Mount Sinai, 1831, Neukuomm. Or. 
Mountuine rs (The), 1793, Colman. C. 
Mourning Bride, 1697, Congreve. T. 
Mousquetaires (128), 19th cent., Halévy. O41. 
M. P. tsth cent., Robertson. C. 
uc about Nothing, 1600, Shakespeare. 0, 
Muet (/+), 1691, De Brucys. C. 
Muctie de Port ci (fa). (Sve * Masaniello.”) 
Muette d« La Foret, 182%, Antler. 
Mase in Livery, 1732, Daudaley. C. 
Mu-es in M uming, 1749, Hill C, 
Mus’ looking-Glase (The), 1605-1634, Mass- 


Mustapha, 11: 1739, Mallet. PL 

My Nightgown and Slipp rs, 1799, Cotman. (C, 

My Spuuw: and |, 1771-1841, Dibdin. O.F. 

Myrrha, 1783, Alfieri. T. 

Mystéres JUdolpie [lem 1796, Guilbert de 
Pixérécourt. 

Mysterious Husband (Fach 1788,Comberand a 

Mysterious Mother, 1 alpole. T. 


Nabob cm about 1779, Foote. F. 
Nabob ™) 1879, Burnard (an English ver- 
on of les Trente Millions de Gladiateura, 

by Labiche and Gille). 

Nabucco, 1842, Verdi. 0. 

Nubuo doncnor, 19th cent. Verdi. Q. 

Nancy, 1696-1743. 

Nanine, 1749, Voltaire. C. 

Narionne. (See “ Count of Narboune,”) 

Nathin the Suge, 1779, Leasing. D. 

Nations (Les), 1861, Banville. OG 








1150 


Native [.ared, 1233, Tieh ip }. 
r 








Natural [vue liter 
Nabural Sou ( Tye} 


c 


% 


, 1746, Cumberlind. CC, (See 
= Fk il- oy LG al ) 

Neck or Nothong, 1766, Garrick or King. F. 
(ameTilest ta tela) 

Nell Gwynne, 02. J rrold. 

Nero, 1675, Lee : ss 

Nerone, 1700, Handel. ©. 


hn ryuls | _ eal Bea I Tiernarcd. c. 

Beer low [aw, (S00, torreon C 

Newer t Late ty Memd (ire, 1eT8, Reale. 

New Inno The Light Meat, 1490, Jonson. C. 

wd | rik Tre), JRO, Mise Lae Ul. 

New Way roTiy Old Debts 1625, Massinger. C. 

Kiow Wonder, 4 Woman Never Veut, 1532, 
Kuwler, 

Sice | (1), 19th cent, ‘Tam ay lor. 

Nice Valwur, ltay, [eaumont and Fieteber. €. 

Nicholas Flat. loath cout... Lurckstune 


Nicunie ds, IoTi, J. Daneer. TL. (fiom P, Cor- 
Sidwlungen, 1250, Waener. ©. 
lik Wh led, eoument and Fletcher. C, 
w Molits of the Law, 19th cent., lum ‘Taylor, 
it ur, cent. Fuvart Oa. 
pia LL, Leia, Wrifuane T. 
“one me Supper, 1790, Hoare. Mu.E (music 


id 


a 
ai 
oc 
= 


Ws 1657, Greene, He 
oat, Reson nt and Fleteber. 
cent., Tuourneur. TC. 


TO yar 4, 
| Lodi a, | | Li | hijs yy ML di titroy ed 
na yf ' 

i i} i 


a dF ole . 
1 


Lt 
i hier « EMr. Warburten the Somerset 
I il 

no) | Lid Sse teed ee. LAG Drum | 

hs he, 1827, Mendeletohn. © 

ya a 7 il le i ifr in Molen “a 














po 





APPENDIX I. 





Odette, 1532, Déaddé. D. 

(Edipe, 1669, Corneille, T. 

(Edip:, 1714, Voltaire, ‘T. 

(Fdipe, 1781, Sacchini. 1, 

(kdipe Rot, 1796, Chénier. ‘T. 

Oipe 6 Colone, 1796, Chenier, ‘T, 

(kedipe chez Aiiméte, 1778, Dock. T. 

(kdipus, 1563, Nevyle. ‘I’. (Semeca"s play dome 
into English}, 

(Edipus, before 1690, Dryden and Les. 

(Enone, 1401, Kalkbrenner. ©. 

(Euvres du Demon (Ler), 1&4, Boule [ 

Old Bachelor, 1693, Congreve. C. 

Old Fortnnatns, (See “ Fortunatos,) 

Ohl Heads and Young Hearts, 1543, Beuce 
canlt €. 

Old Law (The), 1599, Middleton and Rowley. C 
(altered by Massinger). 

O'd Maid (The), 1761, Murpby. F. 

Old Maids, 141, Apowles, (. 

Old Martin's Trials, 19th cent..Stiriing. Dem D. 

Old Troop, 1672, Lacy. € 

id Wives" Tale, 1590, Peele. 
Comus is fodebted to this comedy.) 

Oldcastle Sg Join), 1600, Munday ond Dray- 
ton. (one of the “epurious piays”™ of 
Shakespeare). 

Olimpiade, LTLa, Lea, ©, 

Olive (/*). (See “ Mons. D’Olive."") 

Olivia, 1978, W. G. Wil. C. (a dramane 
version of Gold=mith’s Vicar gf Wakefield), 

Olympiade, 1761, Piecini. O. 

Olymyple, 1800, halkbrenner. O. 

Olympic, 1820, Brifaut. O. (mosic by Spontini) 

Oncle Valet, 1798, Dellamar oc. 

Oudioe, 1416, Hoffinann, O. 

Que or a Monarchy, posthomous 1805, AlGer. 

C. (subject, Doriws chosen king by ibe 

neigh nye of his horse). 


(Milton's 








eee 











Otelle, rita Meekes Oo. r 

Othello, 1 Shakespeare. T. 

Othon, 1664, Corneille. T. 

Our American Cousin, 19th cent. t -TomTaylor. Cc. 
Our Boys, 1875, H J. Byron. C 

Our Clerks, 19th cent., Tom Taylor. 

Our Mary Anne, 19th cent., Buckstone. 

Ours, 19th cent, Robertson. C. 

Ours pet le Pacha (les), before 1822, Scribe. 


Outtara-Kama-Tscheritra, Sth cent. Bhava- 
bhouti. MytD. (translated by Wilson in 
his Indian Theatre). 

CQvcrland Route, 19th cent.. Tom Tayler. C. 


Padlock (The), 1768, Bickerstaff. O.F. 

Page (The), 1765-1841, Reynolds. C. 

Palice of ‘ruth, 19th cent, Gilbert. Fy.C. 
Palamon and Arcyte, 1566, Edwardes. D. 
Palestine, 1775-1847, Crotch. Or. 
Pallantusand Eudora, 1611-1688, T.Killigrew.T. 
Pamela, befure 1770, Love CC. 


Panel (The), 1757-1822, Kemble. is 
Bickerstalf’s comedy uf '7is Well ‘tis no 
Worse rset.) 

Panurge, 1785, Grétry. 0. 

Papal yranny, 1745, Cibber. T. 


Paracelsus, 1836, R. Browning. 1 

Parasitaster, 1606, Marston. C. 

Paria (/e), 1821, Delavi T. 

Parla (The), 1826, Beer. T. (the abuvein English). 

Paria et Londres, 1827, Durtoia, 

Parisien (/2), 1838, Delaporte. 

Parisina, 1833, Donizetti. O. 

Parliament of Love, 1625, Massinger. C. 

Parvulle ct [zidvra, 1703-1758, Theo. Cibber. C. 
(copyright wan £36 108.). 

Pareon’s Wedding, 1666, Killigrew. C 

Parted, 1799-1838, Reeve. C. 

Pa-quale (Jon), 1843, Dunisett!. . 

Passions (lays Of the), 1798-1812, J Baillie. 
C. and T 

Past Ten o'clock, 1771-1841, Dibdin. 

Pastorale Comique, 1666, Moliare. 

Patient Grireil, 1603 Chettle and Dekker. C. 
(drawn from a roel by Boccaccio). 

Patrician’s Daughter, 19th cent., W. Marston. T. 

Patron (The), 1764, Fuote. F. 

Pattie and Peggie, 1739, T. Cibber. B.O. 

Paul, 1#36, Mendelasohn. Or. 

Paul Pry, 19th cent., Puole. F. 

Paul and Virginia, 1756-1418, Cobb, Mu.E. 

Paul and Virginia, 1763-1544, Mazzhingi. 0. 

Paul and Virginia, * Favierea T. 

Pauline, 1°41, Labrounae. C. 

Payable on Demand, 19th ovnt., Tom Taylor. 

re (dm). 18$7, Cormon. D. 

Pare e Portugal (on), 1828, Gil y Zarate. D. 

Peep Bebind the Curtain, 1767 (ascribed to 
Qarrick and t» King). F. 

Pelayu, isth cent.. Jovellanos. T. 

Pelerin Blanc (/2), 1811, Guilbert de Pixéré- 
court, 

Pélopides, 1763, Voltaire. T. 

Wenelope, 1733, Marmontel. QO. (muaic by 
Piccinf). 

Percy, 1777, Hannah More. T. 

Wire de Famille, 1758, Diderot. C. 


Pericics Prince of Tyre, 1609, “nakeogeere. T. 
Perjured Husband, 170¢, Centlivre. 


DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 





1152 





Perkin Warbevk, 1635, Ford. H.D. 

Eerie Noire, 1862, Sardou. 

Perplexed Couple ( The 1706-1767, Molley. a 
Perplexed Lower ithe” Centl:vre. 

Persian Prince, 1682, Southerne. r 
PertLarite, 1653, Corneille. T. 

Pewterer (The), 1747, Hulbery. BC. 


Phesdra and ippolytus, 1680, Smith (realiasd 


36, Cahusac. 

Phédre, 1677, Racine. t “(imitated from 
Euripides) 

an of Hippolyte, 1677, Pradon. T. (a rival 

y 

Philaster or Love Lies a- Bleeding, 1622, Fletehar 
(Beaumont died 1616). T. 

Philip 11, 1783, Alfiert. ‘T. 

Philip von Artevelde, 1834, H. Taylor. D.Pa. 

Philippe II., 1764-1811, Chénier. D, 

Philoctete, 1783, Laharpe. T... 

Philosophe sans le Savoir (12), 1768, Sedaine. C. 

Philosopher’s Stone (The), 19th cent, Tom 


Taylor. 

Philtre (Le), 1830, Setter 0. 

Phoenix ( 

Phrenologixt, 1835, 

Phrusine et Beltre t 1794, Mébul. 0.C. 


Piccolino, 1878, Guiraud. 0. 
Sardou). 
Picture ( The), 1629, Massinger. 


Pierce Penniless (Supplication 1692, Nae®. 
Pterre et Catherine, 1429, St. Gono 

Pierre le Grand, 1854, Meyerbeer. 0. 

Pilgrim (The), 1621, Fletcher (Beaumont died 

1616). (Altered b Vanbrugh in 1699.) 
Pilot (The), 19th cent., Fitzball. N.Bita. 
Pinefre UMS.) 1973, Gilbert and Sullivan. 
: Opta. 
Piperman's Predicaments, * Ware. F. (trans 


Pippa Passes, 19th cent., R. Browning. 

Pirata (/7), 1806-1835, Bellini. 0. 

Pirates, 1763-1796, Storace. Mu.D. 

Ptaarro, 1799, Sheridan. T. (from Kotsebue’s 
drama The Spaniard in Peru, 1797 

Plaideurs Rar? 1668, Racine. rs 

™m ‘asps of Aristophan 

Plain Dealer, 1677, Wycherly. C. ‘4 

Platonic Love, 1707, Centlivre., Cc. 

Play, 19th cent., Robertaon. 

Plays » of gre Passions, 1198-2612, J. Baillie. T. 


Plot and Paanion, 19th cent., Tom Taylor, ete. 

Plus Beau Jour de la Vie (Le), before 1832, 
Scribe. Pt.Pc. 

Poetaster (Thc), 1601, Jonson. Sat.C. (in whick 
Dekker is satirized as “ Crispinus 

Poets ( The), 1774, Alfieri. F. 

Polidoro, 1788, Bandettini. 

Polinice, 1783, Alfieri. T. 

Polish Jew (The), ° Ware. D. (altered toto Ths 
Bells, 1874 

Polly Honeycombe, 1760, Colman. DW. 

Polycucte, 1640, Corneille. T. 

Polyxéne, 1686, Lafosse. T. 

Pompée, 1592, Garnier. ™ 

Pompée, 1641. Corneille. r r. 

Pompey the Great, 1595, (borrowed 
om the Pompde of et 
Poor Gentleman, 1802, Colman. Mo 

Poor Jack, 19th cent., Backstema. 


Pride shall have a Fall, 1825, Croly. C. 

Priestess (TA), 1255, Sargent. 

Prince Durus, 19th cent., Tum Taylor. 

Prince of Homburg, 1776-1811, Kleist. D. 

Princesse Aurclie (/-), 124, Delavigne. C. 

Princesse d’Elide, 1664, Muliere. C 

Princesse de Navarre, 1743, Vulraire. 0. 

Prisoner of State, 1847, Stiring. D. 

Prisoner of War, 1-37, Jerrold. C. 

Prisonnier (12), 1796, Dellamaria. 0.C. 

Procureur Arbitre (Ze), 17th cent., R. Poisson. C. 

Prodigal Son (The), 1739-1802, Arnuld. O. 

Prometheus Bound, 1459, E. Browning. T. 

Prometheus Unbound, 1420, Shelley. CID. 

Promus and Cassandia 1574, Whetstone. C, 
‘This is the quarry of Shakespeare's Measure 
or Measur.) 

Proneurs (Le) or La Tartuffe Littéraire, 18th 
cent. Purat. SatD. (directed agalust 
LY Alembert and his set). 

Prof, 1874, Burnard. (This isan English version 
of Une tuuse Celebre.) 

Prophéte e( 12), 1849, Meyerbeer. 0. (libretto by 
Seri 


Prophetess (The), 1647, Beatrmont and Fletcher. 
Proseriae, is0h Wintr. O 
Ine, 1801, Pafsiello. QO. 

Protecteur (Le), 1741-1857, Brifaut.  C. 

Provoked Husband, 1726, Vanbrugh. C (left 
unfinisbed by Vanbrugh, and called The 
Journcy t Lonion. Cibber finished the 
play, and changed the name). 

Provoked Wife, 1697, Vanbrugh. C. 

Provoat of Bruges, 1236, Knuwles. T. 

Paycheé, 1671, Moliere. C. 

Payche, 1675. Shadwell. 

Pulchérie, 1672, Corneille. 

Puritan (The) ur [he Widow of Watling Street, 


1607, * 

Puritani (J), 1834, Bellini, 0. (lbretto by 
Pepoli). 

Puritan's Daughter, 1861, Balfe. O. 

Pures, (The) or The Benevolent Tar, * Cross. 
Mu.E. 

Pygmalion, 1209, Cherubini. 0. 

Pygmalion and Galatea, 19th evnt., Gilbert, D. 


san ne Meh VE. 1RAd Pradan T. 








Richard Cour de Lion, 1863, Benedict. 0. 

Richard I1., 1597, Shakespeare. H.D. (imitated 
from Marlowe's Bdveard I1., 1692). 

Richard II1., 1597, Shakespeare. H.T. 

Richard Duke of York, 1600, ® 

Richelieu, 1839, lord Lytton. H.P1. 

Richelieu (/a Jeunesse de), 1833, Ancelt. V. 

Rienzi, 1328, Mise Mitfo T. 

Rienzi, 1841, Wagner. Q. (libretto by Jack- 
eon). 

Right Woman, posthumous 1647, Beaumont 
and Fletcher. C. 

Rigoletto, 1882, Verdi. 0. (libretto from Victor 

ugo 

Rimini (/rancesca Sony oie ees T. (an 
episode in Danté's Inf 

Rina.@o, 1711, Hill 0. ati by Handel ; 
this was the first piece he set 2 music). 

Rival Candidates, 1775, Dudley. 

Rival Ladies, 1663, Dryden. ce 

Rival Modes, 1726, Moore. 

Rival Queens, 1678, Lee. rT hae Alexander 
the Great.) 

Rivala ( Phe), 1775, Sheridan. 

Rivals (The), 1830, Balfe. O. (7 Yreka, 

Road to Ruin, 17932, Holcroft.- C. 

Roaring Girl (The), 1611, Middleton. C. 

Rob Roy, 1832, klotew. 0. 

Rob Roy Mac Gregor. | 1782-1838, Pocock. O.D. 
(from sir W. Scott's novel). 

Robbers (The), 1781, Schiller, T. 

Robbers of Calabria, * Lane. D. (ada Peed). 

Robert le Diable, 1831, srpanenls U. (libretto 
by Scribe). 

Robin Hood, pt. 1. 1597, Munday. D. 

Robin Huod, pt. li. 1598, Chettle. _D. 


Rubin Hood, 1741, Dr. Ame and Burney. 0. 
Robin Hood, 1787, O’ Keefe. (music by 
Shield). 


Robin Hvod, 1752-1890 Macnally. CO. 

* Death of Robert Earl of Huntington.”) 

Robin dea Bois, 1834, Weber. 0. 

Rotinaon Coupes 1805, Guilbert de Pixéré- 
court. F 

menue me ba 1806, Pocock (the above in 

angli 

Rock o Rane: 1849, Knowles. H.P1. 

Roderigo, 1706, Handel. 0. 

Redogune, 1646, Corneille. T. 

Rodolphe, before 1822, Scribe. Pt. Pu. 
Roef. kra rage, 1770, Ewald. DD. 

a Pelreane (ia) 1830, Ancelot. T. 

Rol d’Y vetot (12), 1842, Adam. 0.C. (suggested 
by Béranger’a nong). 

Roi e¢ le Fermicr, 1762, Sedaine. 0O.C. (music 
by Monsigny). 

Roister Duletcr (Aalph), 1534, Udal. C. (This 
was the firnt English comedy. For the first 
European comedy, see “ Calandria.”) 

Roland, 1778, Piccini. O. 

Roland for on Oliver, 1819, Morton. C. 

Rolla, 1798, Kotzebue. T. 

Rolla, 1799, Lewis. T. (from the above 

Rollo, poatbumous 1639, Beaumont and s 

Roman Actor, 1626, Masainger. 

Reman Comique (/2), 1461, Offenbach. 0.BE. 

Roman Father, 1741, Whitehead. T. 

Roman fs 1763, Hill. 

— d’Une any or La Folle Gagrure, 1603, 


Scenes tar ak Hives: 1771, Kelly. 
49 


DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 


11868 

Rome Sauvée, 1752, Voltaire. | 

Romeo and Juliet, 1595, Shakespeare. 7 
(printed 1597). 

Romev et Juliette, 1828, Soulié. T. (imitated 
from the above). 

Romildare Constanza, 1819, Meyerbeer. 0O. 

Romp (The),* Anon C.O. (altered from Bicker- 
staffs /.ove in the City 

Rosalinda, 1762, Tasckean Mu.D. 

Rosamond, 1723, Addisun. 0. (meee by Arne). 

Rosamond tne 1879, vay pee T. 

Rusainond Satirt ‘air), 1812, orner. T. (See 


Boas Blesehe (i (/a) et la Rose Rouge, 1809, Guil- 
bert de Pixérécourt. D. (See ** Two Roros.””) 
Rose ee St. Fleur (/a), 19h cent, Offenbach 


Rose et Colas, 1764, Sedaine. 0O.C. 

Rove of A 1842, Knowles. D. 

eons ae le, 1357, Balfe. o a 

re lency (La), 1774, i eligas 8 

Rosiére et Norrice, (la) 1 

Rosina, 1767, Mre. Brooke. O. 

Roeina, 1783, Shield. O. 

Rosmonda, 1525, Rucellerft. T. 

Rosmunda, 17383, Alderi. T. (based on Ban- 
dello’s novel). 

Rosmunda, 1840, Gily Zarate. (See “ Heary” 
and * Complaint.’ 

Roeten { Oerken, 1815, 


Rover (The : 

Koxana, 1772, Magnocavallo. T. (a prise play). 

Royal Command ( #y), 19th vent, Surling. C. 

Noyal Convent, 1704, Rowe. T. 

Royal aie and Loyal Subject (The), 1737, Hey- 
T.C. 


Royal Manse The), 1669, Dryden. T. 

Royal Shep! 1669, Shadwell 

Rubuns d’ivonne, 1880, Thiboust. 

Rugantio, 1805, Lewis. Mel. 

Ruines de Bubylone (Les), 1810, Guilbert de 
Pixérccourt. 

Rulne» de Vaudemont, 1845, Boule. 

Rule a Wife and ee a Wife, 1640, Beaumoat 
and Fictcher. Ly altered by Garrick). 

Runaway (The), 1776, Mrs. Cowley. C. 

Rural Felicity, 1834. Buckstone. 

Ruy Blas, 1440, Victor Hugo. K.D. (Fechter 
duced a baud English version about 1863. 


Sabots de la Marquis, 1854, Boulanger. 0.C. 
Sacrifice 2 Tpnigcuss 1861, Dennery. T. (See 
** Iphigeénie.”’) 
Sad peeeiend lef? at death unfinished, 1637) 
onaun. P. 
Sallor's Daughter (The), 1800, Cumberland, 
St. Genest, 1641, Rotrou. T. 
St. Patrick’s Day, 1775, aber stee. C. 
af er 1866, enedict. Or 7 
nt’ ragedy, 1848, Kingsley. T. 
Samor, 1818, Milman. 
Samevun, 1742, Handel. Or. 
Samson Agonistes, 1671, Milton. CT. 
Sapho, 1850, Gounod. O. 
Sappho and I‘baon, 1584, Lyly. Myt.D. 
Saratuga, 19th cent., B. Howard (brought cut & 
London ander the tide of Brighton. 
Sardanapalus, 1419, Byron. T. 
Satanella, 1868, Balfe. 0. i 
a 





— ee 
ee es —— ee eee 
: he ee 

i ie 


Baney Valets, 17a 
Baul, 1735, Handel 
Baal, bia, tilt 
Baul, i783, Abner. 
mau, 13 5 ia 
be) A Is 
A ey Lhe Stat 
Perl rie. * 
ba AF ' LT* 
TT oa | , iv 
if, VO cer 
Se liven) for Arr 
Schl for Aelia 
le. Lf r afi i} 
i” | Cavi Ti 
ca | fir | = 
7 I, ire i] 
Be ceed for saris 
wid | rity 
| i 
Se licml lit 14 
“1 i 1 


e 


cK Ie ao 








APPENDIX I. 


Sat.C. (in which 
wind Utder the name of 


Bate 8 


— 


md LT.) 


TO 
ML eLion 
1 We EY 
vt hort 


- 
i} 


. 1773, A. More, 


FE 


Cc 
iT. i". 
(See 


harles™ 


Clding's 


(See 


nous LeAT, Reanmonet 


(Her 








Shure, (See “Jane Shore”) 

Si J tale Rol, 164, Adem §=6PtPe 

Sicilian Vespers, 1772-1843, Kenney. 

Sicilian Vespers, 1819, Delavigne. T. (3 

 “™ Vespers.) 

Sicilien ou L'Amour Peintre, 1667, Melia C 

Sicge of Aguilela, 1766, Home, 

Siege of Belgrade, 1796, Cobb. (lO. (romaic by 
ne an English wersion of La (ms 
ford}, 

Siege of Berwick, 1727-1812, Jerningbam T. 

Siege of Calala, 1762-1436, Colman HLD 

Siege of Damascus, 1720, Haghes. T. 

Siege of Grenada, 1671, Dryden. FALPL 

Siege of Ischia, 1778-1824, Kemp. 

Siege of Rhodes, 1656, Devenant. 

Siege of Rochelle, 1835, Ralfe. O, 

Siege of Sinope, 1765, Miss Brooke 

Sicge of Urbin, 1611-16955, Thomas Eilligree 

Silent Woman (The), 1603, Jonson. CC. 

Silvia, 1731, Lillo. 

Single, about 1835, Bucksione. CC. 

Sir Gourtley Nice, 1685, Crowne. ©. 

Sir Fupling Flotter, 2674, Evherege 

sensitid — of The Mon of Mods). a 

Sir George Etherege’s Comical Revenge, 16c- 
1630, Mrs Behn. 4 =: 

Sir Harry Gaylove, 1772, Mise Marshall CC. 

Sir Harry Wildair, 1701, Farquhar, ¢ 

Sir Hercoles Boffoon, 1622-1651, Lacy. C 

Sir John Cockle at Gourt, 1737, Dexieley. FF, 

Sir Jobm Oldcastle. (See “ Oldeusthe “) 

Sit Marmaduke Maxwell, 1827, Cmmingiam (C 

Sir paates or The Cautious Coxcomb, 1TIS 
Lary ie 

Sir Thomas Overbury’s Life and Untimely 
Death, 1614, Ford. T. 

Sir Thomas Overbury, 1726, Savage. T. (beoaght 


hing £200). 
: ae 

















DRAMAS, 


OPERAS, ETC. 





Bophonisbe, 1630, Mairet. (imitated from 

Trisaino ; the tirst Preneh tragedy). 
isbe, 17th cent., Corneille. T. 

Suphonisbe, 1677-1764, Lagrange-Chancel. T. 

Sorcerer ( The), 1476, Gilbert and Sallivan. Opta. 

Serciére nO 1ué3, Bourgeuis and Barbier. 

Gordella, 19th ornt., R. browning. 

Sosies, 1659, Rutrou, C,. 

Sot tunjoura Sut, 1693, De Brucys. 

Spaniard in Peru (Phe), 1797, Kotzebue T. 
ee English version fs called Pisarre.) 
Spanish Curute ( The), 1622, Fletcher (Beaumont 

dicd 1616). C. 

Spanish Dullurs, 1807, Cherry. M.D. 

Spanceh Fryar (he), 1640, Dryden. C. 

Spanish Gipsy, 1653, Middleton and Kowley. C. 

Spanish Pragedy At) or Jeronimo Mad Again, 
1605, Kyd. (feming piu: to Jeronime). 

Spartacus, 1746, Saurip. § T. 

Spartan Duroc (The), 1719, "Reaihectc is 

Speculition, 1765-1841, Reynolds. C. 

Speed the Ploagh, 1794, Mortun. C. 

Sprig. of Laurel, 1747-1833, O'Keefe. M.F. 
(mualc by Shield). 

Squeeze to the Curonation, 1821, Thomson. 

Squire of Alsatia (The), 1683, Shadwell. C. 
(xume as Gentleman of Alsatia). 

Stige Coach, 1704, Farqubar, wr 

Kuple of News (The), Jonson. 

Star of Seville, 1442, Mrs. Butler Gor Kembie). 

Stite Prisoner, 1647, Stirling. 

State of Innocence, 1673, Dryden. D.Pm. 
dramatic version of Milton's /’aradise Leet). 

Rtutira, 17th cent., Pradun. T. 

Stella, 1776, Goethe. dD. 

Stella, 1443, Anicet Bourgeois. D. 

Stepmother (The), 1748-1825, earl of Carlisle 
(Byron’s« naele. T. 

Steward (The). (This is merely The Deserted 
Daug' ter, of Holcroft, 1785, reset.) 

Btilicon, 1660, T. Corneille. T. 

say ater Run Dep, 19th cent, Tom Tay- 
ur. C. 

Stolen heiress, 1703, Centlivre. C. 

Stolen Kisses, 1yto cent., P. Merritt, CG 

Strafford, 1436, R. Browning. H.T, 

Stranger (The), 1797, B. Thumpson. D. (from 
Misanthr pyand Kicpeatance, by Kotzebue). 
(Thompeon’s version was greatly altered 
in 179% by Sheridan. It is the latter alune 
which ms acted.) 

Ktranicra (/42), 1nué-1535, Bellini. 

Stratonics, 1792, Hoffmann. OC, Chas by 
Mehul). 

Btreets of London, 1962, Boucioault, D. 

Rtruensee, 1427, Beer. T. 

Such Things Are, 1786, Inchbald. PL. (reallsed 
£410 128.). 

Buite du Mentuer (/a), 1803, Andrieus. C. 

Bullen Lovers, 1668, Shadwell. C. 

Sultan ( Taz), 1775, Bickerstaff. F. 

Summer’n La-t Will, etc., 1600, Nash. 

Sucnmece Tale, 1764, Cumberland. C.O. (muste 
by nine: ond others. It was cut down 

vy Cumberland into dm isa, an afterplece 

San‘a Darling (The), 1634, Ford. M. 


ass ee of Pierce l'enniless, etc., 1902, 
an 


happlice d'un Homme, 1865, Thiboast. 
Suppurea, 1666, Gancuigne. C. (from Gl 
geeiti, of Aristo ; une of eur earliest dramas 


Suréna, 1674, Corneille. T. 

sarprise ( ( Agreeable), 1798, O’Keef. ©. 

Surrender of Calais, 1791, Colman. C. 

Suspicious Husband (The), 1747, Hoadly. 

Svend Dyring’s House, 19th cent., Herz. ED. 

Svend Grathe, 19h cent., Bojé. T. 

Sweetheaita, 1874, Gilbert. Cc. 

Sweethearts and Wives, 1772-1848, Kenney 
Mu.C. (snusic by Nathan). 

Sweeunan, the Woman-!later, 1640, Anon. C. 

Swindler (The) 1764-1838, ool C. 

Sword and the Hand, 1832, age 

aya 1770, Marmontel. Cn tamusle by 


retry 
Sylvana, y 08; Weber. O. (This is The Weed- 
5 girl altered.) god, 12 c. 
y lvester tlie: 1796, Colman. 
Sylvia, 1731 


Tableau Parlant (/<), 1760, Grétry. O. 

Tailors (The), * Anon. 

Tale of Mantua, 1&30, Knowles, 

Tale of Mystery, 1745-1809, Holcroft. Mel. 

Tale of a Tub, 1618, Jonson. (His last comedy. 
Its object was to bold up Inigo Jones te 
ridicule.) 

Tamburlaine, 1585, Marlowe. ‘I. (See “TI- 
mour.’ 

Tamerlan, 17th cent., Pradon. T. 

Tamerlan et Bajazt, 1806, Bishop. BL 

Tamerlane, 1703, Rowe. T. 

Tamerlane, 1722. Leo. 0. 

Taming of the Shrew, 
(See “ The Honeymoon.’’) 

Tancred and Giananda. 1568, Algebras 
otber members of the Inner Temple. T 
(hased on an Italian novel), 

Tancred and Sigismunda, 1745, [Thumson. T. 

Tancréde, 1760, Voltaire. T. 

‘Tancredi, 18913, Rossini. 0. 

Tanohauser, 1845, W O. 

Tante ( 1s). et le Neveu, 1781-1887, Bri- 
faut. 

Tarare, 1787, Beaumarchais. O. 

Tartuffe, 1664, Moliére. C. (See “The Now 
pe 

Lek rl ‘rquate), 1790, Goethe. T. 

Tanso Refriede, 1819, Ingemanan. 

‘Taste, 1752, Foote. '¥. 

Taverne des Etudiints (1a), 1854, Sardou. 

Tekell, 1403, Guilbert de Pixérécoert. Mel. 
(done into Englixh by fod 

Tell ((cugkielmo), 1%29, Kossinl. 0. Str B 
Bishop altered thi. opera.) 

1766, Lemiére. T. 
1772, Sedaine. 0. 


Tell (Gudi/aume 

Tell (Gucllaume 

Tell (Wilkeim), 1804, Schiller. T. 

Tell witam) 1840, Knowles. T. 

Tell (Will.am), 19th cent., Talfourd. F. 

‘Temistocle, 1738, Metanatasio. D. 

Tempest (The), 1609, Shakespeare, ©. (Gret 
memiomd 1611). 

hi ie a 1668, Dryden. C. (the above 


Temple de i Gloire, 1744, Voltaire. O. 
Temicr Hushand (The), 1703, Steele. C. 

‘Vete de om (La), 1437, Gailbert de Pir4eé 
curt. " 
Théagéne et Chariclée, 1662, Rectne. T. 

Thébaide (La), 1664, T. 







a = 
1156 .PPENDIX i 


Thebais, 1581, Newton. T, (Seneea's play done | | ra ae ? 
into Engl — Tn 

Themlstocle, (See “ Temistocle.”) 

Fc ac Forse at” Lowe, 1615, | Sipe 


7 
Teves, the Orphen of Coase, © Keane re Fr 
snke, 1690, Lafosse. “let 


Theeens, 1715, Handel. 0, ait ] 

Tierry and Theodoret, 1621, Fletcher (Bysn- re 
mont died i6L8), ; anid ( a5), 

Thieves of Paris, 1656, Stirling. TD ua? aby, 

Thimble Rig (The), 18th cent., Backstone. F. Tig 
Thirty Years of a Woman's Life, before 1a, 
ogy 

Thomas. (See “ Moos, Thomaa,") 

Thowes a cohake 17H, Tennyson. T. 

Thomes and Sally, 1696-1743, y. Mu.E. 

Three Glock Seals ( The), 1864, Stirling, MD, 

Three Striueers ( The), 1835, Miss Lee. Cc. 

Three Weeks afr Marriage, 1776, Morphy. F, 

Thyestes, 1660, J. Heywoud (Seneca's play done 
inte English). 

Thyestes, about 1680, Crowne. T, 

T*bere, 1764—L411, Chénier, T. 

Ticket-of-Leave Man, 1663, Tom Taylor. 

Time Works Wonders, 1446, Je Cc. 

Timocrate, 1656, T. Corneille, T. 

Tinwerate, 1721, Leo. 0, 

Timoléon, 1783, Alfleri. T. 

Timuleon, 1734, Chenier. T. 

Tiswn of Athena, 1609, Shak 

Timon of Athens, 1778, Cumberland. T (ibe 
ahove altered), 

Timon the Misanthrope, 1678, Shadwell, T, 

Thmour the Tartar, 1812, Lewis. Mel. 
“ Tanierlane.”) 

Tipperury Legacy, 147, Coyne. C. 

"Tis Pity She's a Whore, 1634, Forni 2D. 

Tis Wall tia ne Wire 17S) THT. Aickeretalf 





DRAMAS, OPERAS, ETC. 





Vacancies (143), 1659, Dancourt. C. 

Val d’Andorre (Le), 19th cent., Halévy. 0.C. 

Valentine, 1820, Guilbert de Pixérécourt. 

Valentinian, 1617, Fictcher (Keaumont died 
1616). T. (altered by the earl of Rochester). 

Valérie, 1822, Scribe. C. 

Valsci (t.e. Wallace) or the Hero of Scotland, 
1772, Perabo. T. (a prix play). 

Vampire (/2), 1820, Carmouche (done intyu 
English by Boncicault). 

Vanderdecken, 137%, * A pvetic drama (based 
on The Flying Julchman). 

Vautour (dfons.), 1205, Duval. 

Venoesiaa, 1647, Rotrua. T. 

Vendinges de Suresnes, 1657, Danoourt. C. 

V. ndetta, 1846, Stephens. 

Vinice Preserved, 1642, Otway. T. (copyright 
was £15). 

Vénitieune (/2), 1834, Andoet Bourgeois. D. 

Venoni, 1809, Lewis. D. 

Venus and Adonis, 1703-1758, Theo. Cibber. C. 
(oupyright was £5 7s.). 

Vepres siciliennes (12s), 1819, Delavigne. T. 

Verre d’Hau (Le), 1842, Scribe. C. 

Very Woman (A), 1631, Massinger. 

Verpers of Palermo, 1823, Hemans. T. 

Veuve de Malabur, 1799, Kalkbrenner. 0. 

Viear of Wakefield (The). (This novel was 
dramatized In 1319; turned into an opera 
in 1423; S. Coyne produoed a dramatic 
version in 1850, In conjunction with Tom 
Taylor; and W. G. Wills in 1878, under 
the name of Cliria.) 

Victime, 19th cent , Tom Taylor. 

Vietorine, 1431, Buckstone. 

Videna, 1554, Herand. T. 

Vie de Café, 1450, Dupenty. 

Vieux Chateau, 1799, Dellamaria. O. 

Vieux Fat (/2), 1810, Andrienx. C. 

Vieux Garcon (/.¢), before 1422, Scribe. Pt.Po. 

Vieux Péchés bist 1833, Dumanols. D. 

Village (The), 1x06, Cherry. C. 

Village Coquettes, 1435, Hullub. 0. 

Village Wedding, before 1770, Love. P. 

Vindimiatrice (/2), Isth ont, Grétry. 0. 

Vira-Rama-Pocheritra, 8th cent., Bhavabboutd. 
Myt.D. (translikd by Wilson in his /ndian 
Theatre). 

Virgin Martyr, 1622, Massinger and Dekker. T. 

Virgin Unmarked (The), about 1740, Fielding, 


Mu.F. 
Virgin of the Sun (The), 1¢!2, Bishop. O. (This 
is Kotzebue’s Renyo- aki.) 
Virginia, 1651, Webwer. T. 
Virginia, 1760, Miss Brooke. T. 
Virginia, 1743, Alfieri. TL. 
Virginia, 1756-1429, Léopuld. T. 
Virginie, 16°34, Campi trun. T. 
Virginie, 17*6, Liharpe. T. 
Virginiua, 120, Knowles. T. 
Virtuoso (T.¢), 1676, Shadwell. C, 
Virtuous Octavia, 1594, Brandon. H.PL 
Visite a Bedlam (tne), before 1422, Scribe. PtJ'e. 
Vologene, 1744, Lao. 0. 
Volpone or the Fox, 1605, Jonson. C. 
Volunteers (The), 1693, Shadwell. C. 
Vortigern and Rowena, 1796, Ireland. T. 
Vetary vf Wealth (The), 1792, Holmaa. C. 


Wags of Wincor. (See “ Review.”) 








Walking Statue, 1710, Hill. 
Wallace. (See “ Valse." 
Wallinstein (Albertus), about 1620, Glapthorne. 


Wallenstein, 1799, Schiller. (An English vere 
sion by Coleridge, 1800.) 

Walhous ( The). 1782, Cumberland. 

Walter Raleigh (Si), 1720, Sewell. T. 

War, loth cent., Rubertaon. C. 

War to the Knife, 1965, H. J. B . 

Warwick, 1763, Laharpe. T. (in 1767 appeared 
the Englisb version by Franklin.) 

Wat Tyler, 1794, Suuthey. 

Waterman ( The), 1774, Dibdin. Bd.0. 

Way of the World (The), 1700, Congreve. C. 

Way to Get Marrici (The), 1796, Morton. GC 

Wuy to Keep Him (The), 1760, Murphy. C. 

Ways and Means, 1788, Colman. C. 

We Fly by Night, 1306, Colman. F. 

Weak Pointa, 191b cent., Buckstone. 

Weatheroock (The), about 1810, Allinghsm., 

Wedding Day, 1629, Shirley. C. 

Wedting Day, 1790, Inchbald. F. (realised 
2200 


Welcome and Farewell, 1837, Harness. DL 

Weneeslaus. (See “ Venerolas.” 

Werner, 1#21, Byron. T. (based oa one of Kiss 
Lee's Canterbury Tales). 

Werther, 1817, Daval. F. 

West Indian, 1771, Cumberland. C. 

Westward Hue! 1607, Dekker and Webster. 

What Neat? 1771-1341, Dibdin. FP. 

What You Will, 1607, Marston. C. (What You 
Will in the second ctle of Shakespeare's 
comedy of Tur lfth Night.) 

Wheel of Fortune (The), 1779, Cumberland. CG. 

Which is the Man? 1743-1809, Mrs. Cowley. C. 

White Ih vil (The), 1612, Welster. T. 

White Laty of Berlin Castle, 1875, A Wia- 
chester. T. 

Who is She ? 19th cent., Stirling. Pt.C 

Who wants a Guinea? 1805, Colman. FP. 

Who's the Dupe? 1743-1809, Mra. Cowes 
ley. F. 

Wicked World (The), 19th cent. Gilbert. Fy.Q 

Wilow (ie), 1653, Beaumont and Fictcher. 

Widow of Delphi, 1780. Cumberland. 0. 

Widow's Tears (A), 1557-1634, Chapman, (Q, 

Wite (Te). 1833, Knowles, 1). 

Wife tor a Monib, 1624, Fletcher (Beaumont died 
1616). T.C. 

Wife Well Managed, 1715, Centlivre. CG 

Wife's Excuse, before 1726, Suutherne. C. 

Wivesas Chey Were, etc. 1797, Inchbald. CG 

Wild Gallant, 1663, Drsden. C. 

Wild-Goose Chane, 1619, Fletcber. C. (first pub- 
lished 1652). 

Wild Oats, 1794, O’Reefe, C, 

Wildalir (Str Marry), 1701, Farquhar. © 

WH clit Tell. (See o Te tt’) 

Will (The), 1765-1861, Reynolds, CG 

Winning a Husband, 19th oent., Buckstone. 

Winter's Tale, 1608, Shakespeare. C. (first 
mentioned 1611). (The source of this p 
wan anovel call: d Pawiloetoor The 
Of Time, 1584, by Kobert Greene. 

“ Zapilya.”) 

Wisdom of Dr. Dodypoll, 1600, Lyly. C. 

Wit at Several Weapons, posthumous 1647, 
Beaumont and Fletcher. C. 

Wit in a Constable, about 1624, Glaythsren. S- 





APPENDIX II. 


DATES OF POEMS, NOVELS, ETC., REFERRED TO 


IN THIS BOOK. 
EXPLANATION OF CONTRACTIONS. 


Adv. = Adesmture. 
Alex. = Alesandrian (13 of 13 oyf. 
Alles. Allegory » 
altrh. = Alternate rhyme. 
Autoblog. = Autdi 
b.v. = Blank verse 
Bal. = Ballad. 
Biug. = Btography. 
Blug.Rom.= Biographical romanes. 
C.Hal. = Comic ballad, 
Ch Ode. = Choral ode. 
Col.Sat. = Colloquial satire. 
d.m. = Different metres. 
D.Pm. = Indactic uP postr. 
Dea.Pm = Descriptive poem. 
Phe. = pet 
Pm. = Dramatic poem. 
E.Sap. = English sapphic. 
Ecl. = 
Eleg. = Klegy. 
Kn = Enlertaioment. 
Ep. = Kpic poem. 
Fa. = Kesay or csoaye. 
H.C. = Heroi-comic. 
HM. = Herotc or 10 syk. metre. 
H.Hy. = Heroic hymna, 
HS, = Herote stansas. 
Hex. = Hezametcr. 
Hint. = Slistory. 
Hist.Nov. = Historic novd. 
ist.Rom. = Historic romance. 


KNGLISH AND AMERICAN. 


Avprsox (Joseph), 1672-1719. 
Comengn. 1708. (The Victory of Blenheim.) 
.M.; rh. 
Freehvlder, 1718. Es.; pe. 
Guardian, 1713. ka.; pr. 


Poems, 1719. 
Spectator, 1711-12, 1714. Kal: pe. 
atler, 1709-11. Es.; pr. 


(For dramatic pieces, see Apraxptx 1) 
Qxanaton (Mark), 1721-1770. 
Nalad«, 1767. H.Hy. 
Odes, 1745. 
Measures of Imagination, 1744(3 biks.). M.M.; 
v. 


Hy. = Hymn or hymns. 
lamb. = Jambic metre, v - 
Iron. Tr. = fronical treutisa, 

rm. <= Irregular metre. 
I. = Tlaegend, 

on. = Monody 
N.0Ode. = Naval ode. 
Nov. = Novel. 
oc. = metre. 
otr, = COttava rima. 
Pr. = Poctis prove. 

Pr. = te 
Past. = Pastoal or 
Pat.Bal = Pastoral 
Pn. = Pindaric metre or ode. 
root, = Ane 

o.Epis, = tt , 
Po.Rom. = Jolitical romance. 
PoSat. = Political satire. 
PoSkt. = Political skié. 
Pr Alle = Proee, 
Prep = Proceepic 
rb. = Rhyme. 
Roan. == Romenos, 
Sen = Anatire. 

ma = Spenserian mere. 

St. = Stansas of 4 or more lénm 
ter.rh. = JSernary rhyme, 
Topog. = teal, 
Troha. = FF te, le.- wv 


Verse of verses. 


Axnsctuxor (Dr. John), 1660-1736. 
Hiswory of Jubn Bull, 1712. Po.Skt.3 pe 
Axrmstroxe (Dr. John), 1700-1779. 
Art of lreserving Health (Jas), 1966 
(4 dks.). D.Pm.; H.M.; bv. 


Barrer (Philip James), 1816- 

Age ¢ Ae), 1853. ColSat.; p 

Angel World (The), 1850; p 

Festus, 1839. Dr. 3; d.m, 

Mystic (The), 1855; p. 
Barsocr (John), 1320-1395. 

Bruce ( The), 1375 (13,000 linea). Scotch Ep.; es. 

(Written at the request of David Brace.) 

Beatriz (James), 1736-1803. . 

Minstrel, pt. £ 1773, i. 1774 (2 bke.). Som 





1160 

Becaronp ( William), 1761-1844, 
Vathek, (744. ‘Tule; pr. 

Brack HOKE (Sir Nwhard), 1650-1729, 
Creation, 1712 (7 bas.) : th. 
Prince Arthur, 1690 (6 bea.) Ep, 

Brat ( Nolert), [6o9-1147. 
israve (The), 1745. HM: bow, 

Buaowne (Wil! am, 1590-1645. é 
Britatiniia’s lusturala, 1613 (2 Les. 68. & songs). 





dim 
Shepherd's [tye, 1614 (7 Bel.) 
1OLWeR, (ee Laetbon)y 


Biesvas (fain, 1625-16448 
Holy War [ The}, |as2_ 
MWileriay = Procn 

Wieaky (Mies, 


Lrot=1s4il, 


Allerg. ; pr. 
* pli. 167s, 16M. Allew.s pr. 
alierwords Alde, d'Arblay iF 


Bvellu ‘ LTT. Nor. 
Hiks= (Mobert), 1759-1796 (Seotch lyric poet). 
Agi) Lane “vne, 1795 (not original, 


Cotter’s Satucliv Aielit, 1727 

Twath ar 1) 

Nien ire, |e. 

For «' that on" «’ that, 1796; 8 line St; Ss, 
mit.to 


Greejy Girow the 


Sp. 
6 line St. 


Ty ir 7 
Ld LA a Wee) + 


Rashes, O, 1787; 4 line St. ; 
BS iti 


if ihimwern, i737: 6 line St. 3 hs and af) 


q 
P' li ro 
Wighilinedl Mary, 1792: & line St, #.7, 
Mary M “ 79a: 8 line St: 88, oli-rh. 
Scuts uw, 179), Sapphic. 
am or r, 1i3l Jamb.: 58, rh, 


vin Heaven, 1788; 4 Line St,; Sa, alt.rh, 


To Mat 
Ti a Mountain Daisy, 1786. 


| 

loa Maur, lies 

'wa logs (Cusar and Losth), 1787. Dial; 
tel Thi 






p.1, ra cer 12 


» ry ull 


APPENDIX IT. 











CaMPRELL (Thomas), 1TTT-1844. 

Exile of Erin, 1801. Fal, 

Gertrude of Wyoming, L809 (3 pte. dpm 

Hohenlinden, 1401. ESap. 

Spal of + i Paani 1841. te 

‘lrasures of Hope, 1799 (2 _) ELM.; 

Reullura (ie beantifal stan), fait, Onde. 

Theodoric, 1224. H.M_: rh. 

Ye Mariners of England, 1201. N.Ode. 

CARLTLE (Thomas), 1795— 
Frederick the Great, vola £ iL 1858, Gl fh 
‘ 1862. Biog.; pr. 

French Revolution, 1837. Hit, pr. 

Surtor Resartus, 1933. Autoblog. of Tesi 
driekh of Weissnichtwo, iz. Mr. Shodly« 
Nowhere; pr. 

CHAUCER (Geoffrey), 1323-1400, 

Assembly of Fowls (694 v } 

Book of the Duchess (1334 w.). 

Canterbury Tales, 1245 (22 p.; 2pr.). HM 

Chaucer's Dream (2235 w.). 

Court of Love (1442 v_). 

Flower of the Leaf (595 v¥.). 

House of Fame (3 bkes.); oc 

Parliament of Birds, 1358, 

Romaunt of the Rese, about 1360 (from & 
oman de la Rese of Lorris and Meung) 
TIOL ¥.* or, 

Treatise on the Astrolabie, 1391 (a fragment) 





pr. 
Troylus and Cresseyde, 1369 (5 bles). Bass 
on the Filostrato of Boceaccio. ; 
CHUecniL, (Charles), “ The British Jovenl' 
1731-1764. 
Apology to Critical Reviewers, 1761. 
H.M.: th. 
Author (The), 1763. Sat.; H-M.; rh. 
Candidate ' The}, Lié4, Sat.; A MM. : rhe 


Sal, 

















DATES OF POEMS AND NOVELS. 1161 





Ortenta! Eclegues, 1743. H.M.; rh. 
Passions (The), 1746. IPn.Ode. 
Oovrsn (Fenimore), 1789-1861 (novels). 
AGoat and Aahbore, 1844. 
Borderern. 
Bravo ( The), 183). 
Crater (The or Vulcan’s Peak, 1847. 
Deernlayer (The), 1841. 
Destroyer (The), 1841. 
Eve Eflingham. 
Headaman of Berne, 1838. 
Heathcotes. 
Heidenmauer, 1832. 
History of a l'ocket-handkerchief, 1843, 
Homeward Bound. 
Yack Tier, 1848 (Red Rover recast). 
Last of the Mubicans, 1826. 
Lionel Lineoln, 1825. 
Miles Wallingford, 1844, 
New Myers, 1843. 
Notions of a Travelling Brother, 1838. 
Ouk Openings, 1843, 
Outward Bound. 
Pathfinder, 1840 
Pilot, 1523. 
Pioneers, 1823. 
Irairie, 126. 
Precaution, 1819. 
Red Rover, 1826. 
Sea Ldunn, 1849. War of I 
y, 1822. (The War of Independence. 
wo Admirals (The), 1842. ) 
Water Witch, 1830. 
Ways of the Hour, 1880. 
Wept of Wishtun Wish (fhe), 1837. 
Wing and Wing, 1842. 
W vandutte, 1843. 
ktc., ete. 
Oottos (br. Nathaniel), 1707-1788. 
(8) Visions in Veree, 1761; oc. 
Oow ay (Abraham), 1618-1667. 
Carmina, 1662. 


Dav . 
idri, L636 (4 bis.) Ep. (incomplete); 


Four Ages of England, 1657. 

Mistress, 1647 (a cullection ef love verses). 
Titndaric Ques, 1663. 

Fu-ns on the Civil War, 1662, 

Poctic [slvanoma, 1633. 

Puritan and faplat, 1643, 

Tragical Ilistory of I'yramas and Thisbe, 1628 


(aged 10). 
Oowrna ( William), 1731-1800. 
Hoadiera, 1790. Rul.3 Se; Te 
Charity, 17=2. HoM.; rh. 
Converantion, 1782. HLM. rh. 
Fxpostulation, 1982. HM: rb. 
Homer translatcd, 1791. HS. ; bv. 
Hope, 17*2. HUM. s rh. 
Joan Giipin, 1742. C.Bal., 8€.; 8.6. 
Miacellancous Poems, 1793; d.m. 
Otney Hymna, 1779; d.m. 
Progress of brror, 17%2. HM. rh. 
Retirement, 1782) HLM. rhb. 
‘Table Taik, 3783, IMal.y HEM.; ch. 
Task (Thr), 1745 (6 bks.), H.M.; bv. 
Treth, 13%2. HOM. ; rb. 
Omanne ((eorge), 1764—1832. 

( The), 1810 (24 letters). FI.M.: th. 

Mall J acy (TAs) 1007 2 pts.) Dial.; St. ; as. 
Library (The), 1 44.2.4 rh. 


Danxtgr (Sam 





Newspaper (Zhe), 1785. Fi.M.; rb. 
Parish Negiuer veo? (3 pts.). H.M., rh. 
Bir kustace Urey, 1507. (Madbouse.) Dial 4 


St. Ba. 
21) Tales, 1819 (bared on facts). H.M.; rb. 
3 Tales of the Hall, 1819 (based on‘ facts) 


> rd. 
Village, 1807 (2 bks.). H.M.; rb. 


Corxinuhan (John), 1729-1773. 


Evening, 1766. Lyric 4 line St. ; 8s, alt.rh. 
Morning, 1766. Lyric; 4 line Se.; 6a, alt rh. 
Noon, 1766. Lyric; 4 line St.; 8s, alt.rh 


18623-1619. 

A History of the Civil Wars between the 
Housrs of York and Lancaster (8 bks ); 
8 line St.; H.M.; rb. 


Devon ( Daniel), 1661-1731. 


Apparitions ( History of), 1727; pe. 
Captain Carletun, 1728. Biog.Rom.; pr. 
Captain Singleton, 1720. Biog.Rom.; pr. 
Colonel Jack, . Biog.Rom.; pr. 
Duml: Phi er (The), 1719; pr. 
Duncan Campbell, 1720. Biog.Kum.3 pr. 
Fortunate Mistress ( The) or Roxana, 1734; pr. 
History of the Devil ( The /’elitioal), 1736; pr. 
Hymn to the Piilory, 1703, pi oc. 
John S 1724. Biog. tom. ; pr. 
Jonathan Wild, 1725. Biog.Rom. ; pr. 
Jure Divino, 1706. 
Moll Flanders, 1721. Blog.Rom.; pr. 
Plague uf London, 1722. Hist.Rom.; pr. 
Religious Courtship, 1722. 
Robinson Crusoe, 1719. Tale of Adv.; pr. 
Shortest Way with Dissenters, 1703. (Againss 
the bhigh-church poy, for which be was 
pilloried.) iron.Tr.; pr. 
ulum Crape-gownorum, 1682. 
born Englishman, 1699. (In defence of 
William Tl.) Po.Sat.; p.; HLM; rh. 


Duxnam (Sir John), 1615-1668. 


Cooper’s Hill, 1643. H.M.; rk. 


Dispix (Charles), 1746-1814, ° 


Sea Songs, 1790; d.m. 


Dicxxye (Cha: les), 1813-1870 (novels). 


American Notes, 1842. 

Rarnaby Rudge, 1841. 

Battle of Life, 1946, 

Bleak House, 1852. 

Chimes, 1844. 

Cricket on the Hearth, 1848. 

David Cupperfield, 1349. 

Dr. Marigoli’s Prescrijtion, 1805 (Chartetmes 
number). 

Dowocy and Son, 1846. 

Great Lxpectationa, 1860, 

Hard Times, 1454 

Haunted Iluuse (The), 1859 (Christmas num- 
ber 


Haunted Man, 1848. 

Holly Tree Inn ( The),1855 (Christmas number). 

Little Purrit, 1667. 

Martin Chuzzlewit, 1843, 

Muster Humphrey's Clock, 1846. 

Meenage from the Sea (4), 1060 (Carteinias 
number} 

Mrs. Lirriper’s Lodgings, 1963 (Chriamae 
number). 

Mugby June\ton. i rocd (a Fragumeuty, 13 

Mystery of Edwin a do 1876, 

Nicholas Nkkicby, 1838. 


coves SsUUICEB Ground, Los? (Chr 
number), 
Onemm: reial Triveller ( The). 
‘HL. The Christmas numbers are o 
Part by Dickens. 
Diszaert ( Kenjamin), lord Beaconsfield, 150 
(novels). 
Alroy (Wondrous Tule Y). 
Coningsly, 
Conta: ini Fleming. 
Henrietta ‘Temple. 
afr, 1870, pt 
Revolutionary “pic, 18345 p. 
Rise of iskandcr, 
vbil, 


Taucred, 

Venetia, 

Vivian Grey, 1827, 

Young Duke. 
(For Alurcos, see Arpexprx I.) 

Dagartoy (Wichart), 1563-1631, 

Burons’ Wars (The), 1595, (The civil wa: 
Faward IT.) ; 8 line St.3 ALM. s rh, 

Battle of Agincuurt, 1622; & line 8.3; H. 
th 


England's Heroic F. istles, 1598 ; 
men's Birthand M itacles 1593. Hx. alt 
Muse’s Elysium (ine), 1630; p. 
*Nymphidia or ‘he Court of Fairy, 16 
8 line St.; 4.7, 
Poly vlbtion, Bengs 1-x 1612, xt.-xvill. 16 
XIX.-XXx. 16uz (io rongs). Topog.; Al 
Shepherd’s Garlan » 1593; p, 
YDEN (John), 1631-1700, 
Absalom and Ach-t. ‘phel, pt. {. 1681, If. 16. 
On = Menmouth's rebellion.) Po.Sa 
Migrh. Pe. di. chictly by Tate, 
Alexander's Feast, 1697, Pn. Ode. 


aXe 


Mo; altorh. 
Astrea R-dux, 1660, (On tha Restoration 
H.M.; alt.rh. 
Cromwell (Leath ef), 1658, Eleg.; HM. 
alt.rh. 
Fables, begun 1694, finished .709 (7500 v, 


Hind and the Panther, 16*7 (3 pts), (in de 
fence afeham... -- 








DATES OF POEMS AND NOVELS. 





T. nnyron’s ballad (p. 405). The incident 
ts given p. 456, q-°) 
Ath vain The ED (The Continuation of 
Leonidas 
Leonidas, 1737 (ia bks.). Kp.; b.v. 
(For bis two tragedies, see ArrenpDrx I.) 
Goow x ( Prancis), 1561-1633. 
Man in the Muon, ponthumous 1638 ; pr. 
Nuntius Inanimatus in Utopia, 1629; pr. 
Gopwix a "tlliam), 1756-1836. 
Culeb Williama, 1794. Nov. 
Golden Legend (Tre), James de Varagine, 
1230-1298. (See ~ Lougfellow.”) 
Historia Lombardina, seu Legenda Sancta, 
usually culled “ Legenda Aurea,” about 1382. 
GoLpen TA (Oliver), ee 
Bee, 1759-60. Es. ; 
Citizen of the W orld, Ais9 Re werk pr. 
Deserted Village, 1769 H.M.; rb. 
(Griffin gave him £105 for ne copyright. ) 
ae Transformativn (The), 1765. A tale in 


Marth a Animated Nature £7). 17743 pe. 
Edwin and Angelina. (See * Hermit.”) 
E ais Mad es 1766 St.; 8.6. 
(™) cnnaye, 1765; 

aunch of Venison Gye ; Alex. 
Hermit (The), 1768 evilee 5 8.6. 
Retaliation, 1774. 11 ayl., rh. 
Traveller (The), 1765. rig ee H.M.; rh. 
Vicar of Wakefiell, 1766. Nov. 

(For dramatic pieces, see Arrzexpix 1.) 
Gown ag wert }, 1337-1402. 
e@, 1350 (in French). 
eaais Amantia, 1393. A puet. Dial.In Eng: 

oc. (Written at the request of Richard II.) 
Speculum Medituntis, 1370 (ia French). Ne 

known copy of this poem exists. 
Vox Clam nus, 1341 din tn Latin). This poem 

was nevir printed, 

Gray (Thomas), 1716-1771. 

Rand, 1757.) Pair. 
Elegy in a Country Charehyard, 1749. H.M.; 

4 line St.; alt.rh. 
Eton -aghaaly 1747. Ode; 10 line BR. ; 8.6. 

of Pues , 1757, Pn.Ode. 


Haureceron (Thomas C.), 1796-1866. 
English to America, 18515 pr. 
Nature and Human Nature, 1855; pr. 
Old Jude, 1849; ne 
Sam Slick or ‘The lock maker (he), 1837 ; pr. 
Hatt (Joseph), “The Christian Seneca,” 1574- 
1656. 


Satires, 1597 (3 bes.) H.M.; rb. 
@ a wes (Sephen), in the reign of Henry VII. 
Exemple of Vertu, 1530; p. 
Pasee-tyine of Pi-nure, 1806, printed 1517, 
rhe History of Graunde Amoare and La 
lle Pucell); 7 line St.; HLM; rh. 
Hawanxs (dfrs.), 1793-1835 (poetry 5 d.m.). 
Domestic A Mections, 1812. 
Forrst Sunctuary, 1826, 
Hymne for Childhood, 1634, 
Lays of Leveure Houra, 1829, 
Records of Women, 1828. 
) r82l. 
Bungs ash ie the Peni: 1838, 
cathe THe Mixerrat (Siiad Marry), 1386- 


446 (Sovich poet 
Walle 1407 Gib >) Ep; HM; rh. 





1168 





Hearsgaet (George), 1583-1633. 
Priest to the Temple hoe 
Parson, 1652; pr. 
Temple (7Ac) or Church, 1633; 
Hergest (Tre Red Hoot af) or" inioogon” 
12th cent. (Tales of thy early Britlah pr 


Joaxeox ( Dr. Samucl), 1700-1784, 
Idler, 1758. Es.; pr. 
Life of Savage, 1744; ef 
London, 1738. Sat. ; M.; rk. 
Rambler, 175@-63. Es.; : Pe 
Rasuelas, 1769. Tale; 
Vanity of Human Wishea. 1749. Gat.; J1.M.; rh. 
(For Irene, cece Arrrxpix [. 
Jonxsox (/iNchard), ? 1560-27 1 
Nine Worthies of London, 1892; pe. 
Seven Champions, 1617; pr. 


Krats (John), 1796-1828 (poet) 
Endymion, 1817. Bom. in v.; HLM, rh 
Eve of St. Agnes, 1820. 


ad er 1820. H.M.; bv. 
1820, 


Lamla, 1820. 

Ode to the Grecian Urn, 1828. 

Ode to the Nightingale, 1620; 16 line St. 
H.M. and one short line. 


William), about 1333-1466. 
alee e Picrs Plowman, 1363. Sat. peem 
(Ang.-Sax. alliterative poetry). 
Loxcreviow (Henry Wadsworth), 180T- 
Ballads, etc., 1841. 
Belfry of Bruges, 1846; 2 line om 15 ayL, rh. 


Ev line, 1847 
Golden Legend 263 pas Hs Dr.Pm. 


Hiawatha, 1855 re staves). An Indian Alleg. ; 
Troch.: 8 syl., not rh. (The most original 
production of the cent. ) 

Hyperion, 1840. Rom. in pr. 
Kavanagh, 1849. A posilce-phtlosophical tale 
Miles Standish, 1868. Hex. 
Outre-mer, 1335. (His first work); pr. 
Poems on Slavery, 1342; d.m. 
Seaskle ( The ey the Fireside, 1850. 
nish Student (The), 1843. Dr.Pm. 8 acts 
aks of a W: Inn, 1863; p 
Toa Child, 1848. Irr.m. 
Voices of the Night, 1841; p. 
Lrtre.tox (George, ok 1769-1773. 
Monody, 1747. Pn.Ode. 
Progress of Love, 1727 (4 ecl.). H.M.3 rk. 
Lrrrox (Bdward Lytton Bulwer, lord), 1806- 


13738. 
Alice. 
Arthur (King 848. Ep.; 6lineSt., H.M.;r& 
Athens, its and Fall, 1837; pe. 
Caxtonia, aay Nov. 
Caxtons, 1851. A domestic Nov. 


Devereux, 1830. Nov. 
Disowned, 1829. Nov. 

England and the English, 1833; pe. 
Ernest Maltravers, 1837. Nov. 
Bugene Aram, adel Nov. 
Eva, 1842. A poe 

Falkland, 1837. win first Nov.) 
Godolphin, © Nov. 

Haroki, 1860, Hist.Nov. 

Isrnael, 1930. An Oriental tale, 
Kenelm Chillingly. Nov. 








1164 





Last Days of Pormpeil, 1835. Hist.Nor, 
Last of tlie Foirivtia, 1349, Hist. Nor. 
Leila aid Calderon, [sae 


Lucretia, [sau uit, 

Blileins | Lost Titles of}. 

MY Qwvel, 1552. Aw, 

Nev Ww Pirie, bata Ti. 

Nighi ae | ul JP V LDL, 1237. 

Lit ~) ir Dh qt lied, La26. 
L- 


ho, 
Tule in ¥. 


futls Leki, Sy LW 

Pa a LuTra, " | Nov, 
Mellon, ats (H 4 Second Nov.) 
ilgrima of the Mbbir, edd. Now, 
Lele [su6. Mial suv, 

ot. ot r ihs, leul., vk poem. 

PL La Lae? au 

Strate Story, Lei. Bow, 


Woods aad Wildilowers, 1826; d.m. (His first 
production.) 

WH lat Woll lie ho w 

Hino, 412. Aww. 
(For dramatic pieces, see APPEXDIx I.) 


ith It? 1560. Nov. 


“Red Book of 
carly 


Mabinogion (The) or the 
esl, “Et ic nt. (Tules of the 
Iiritist) pt (Wolsh) 


MacauLat( Thomas / alington Macaulzy, lori), 


1 Sue J Sou. 
Aninadasa (The), 1432 (1 fragment). Alez.; rh. 
lvry. uSungeofohe Muguecuots, oud. Alex.s rb. 
(4) Lays of Ancient Lome, 1842 p, 
Mackessie (/lewry), LTAS-1S31 


Man of Feeling, i771, 


MacvuEMsinx (irl 


ad 


, lees 6 


Portis of Ossian, 1To0-6 P.Pr, 
Marcuzines and Reviews. 

Aculuny, 1569, 

Atheneum, las 

Melgrovia, 16¢ 

hw wid, LET, 


APPENDIX IT. 





(For Comus and Samson 

Arresprx I.) 

MoxtGomear (ames), 1771-1554. 

Greenland, 1510 (5 cant.). D.Pm.; BML; rh 

Hymne, 1853; dima. 

Miscellaneous Poems, 1803-20; dum, 

Pelican Islond, 1827. D.Pim.; H.M.; br. 

Prison Amuscmetita, 1795, 1796; dm. (He wes 
imprisoned in the castle of York for publis- 
ing in the Jris, of which he was editors, 
an article upon the taking of the Bastille.) 

Songs of Zion, 1822; dim. 

Wanderer of Switzerland (The), 1306 (6 pm.)y 
4 line St.; 7s, rh. 

West Indies, 1509 (4 pis.). (On the abolitias 
ol the slave trade.) HLM.; rh. 

World before the Flood, 1812 (10 cant). Ep. 
1i.M.; rh. 

Mowxrcomerr (Aobert), 1801-1855 (poetry) 

Death, Lazs. 

Luther, 1843. 

| Messiah, 1543. 

Omnipresence of the Deity, 1623. HM; rh 
Sucred Meditations, 1847. 

Suitan, LS29. 

Vision of Heaven, 1928. 

Vision of Hell, 1828, 

| Moowe (Thomas), 1779-1852. 

Anaicreon, 1800 (translations from the Greek) 
Balluds and Songs, from 1806; dim. 
Epicurean, 1827. Nov.; pr. 

(6) Fables of the Holy Alllaner, 1823. 
udge Family in Paris, 1818 (12 letters fn ¥.) 
Jrish Melodies, 1807-14 (9 Noa. 
Lalla Rookh, LS1T (4 tales). 
pr. and ¥.; d.m., 
Loves of the "Ar igela, L&22 (I atories in v¥.) 
National Airs, 1823 (3 Nos.) ; dm. 
Odes, 1906, etc, 
Rhymes on the Road, 1819 ($ extracts), 


Aponte, a 


: dm. 
riental Rom. ; 














ase (the), 1710. (From the Talmud) 


Might sheen on Death; 88, (Go ldsmi to 


referred this poem cS ‘Gray 8 
Bpy, which it probably caged) 
Parca Pixpak (John Wolcot), 1738-1819. 


Birthday Ode, 1786. (The visit of George III. 
to Whitbread’s brewery.) Irr.m. 

Buzzy and P.vzzi, 1796. A tewn Ecl. in 2 pts. ; 
Dial.; H.M.; rh. 

Lousiad. An ILC. poem in Scantos. Canto. 
1786. (A lampoon on George I11., who saw 
a loure in bis green peas served at table, 
and ordered his aeook to have their heads 
shaved in future.) H.M.; rh. 

18) Lyric Odes, 1782. Sat. on the Royal 

Acadcmicians; d.mw. 

Ode upon Ode, 1748. (The collection contains 
“The King (George ILI.) and the Appe 
Dumplings.”’)  [rr.m. 

n ard Ellen, 1796. os legendary tale in 
) cantes ; 4 line St.; 

Pilgrims and the Peas (we, ie 1782. (One of the 
early Lyric Odes.) 

Pindariana or tetae Pindar’: 5 Portfolio, 1796. 

Razor Seller (The), 1732. (One of the early 
Lyric Odes.) Irr.m. 

Tristia or the Sorrows of Pindar, 1796, 82; 
H.M.; alt.rh 

Whitbread’s Brewery vialted bY their Majes- 
ties, (See “ Birthday Ode.” 

Puitirs (Ambrose), 1671-1749 (whig poet), 
nicknamed Numby-/amby Phi ips. 

(6) Pastorals (called by Tickell “the finest in 

e Las "), 1748. ELM; rh. 
Panui John), 1676-1708 tory poet). 

Blenheim, 1705. H.M.; 

Soien 1706 2 Dke. Georgie H.M.; bv. 
endid Shilling 1703. (A _ Parody on 
the aty le of MilGor) H.M.; 

Por m (Rigar) 1311-1849, 
Bella ( The), about 1431. (Word-painting. )irr.m. 

Eureka, 1343. A prose poem 

Raven, about 1331; 6 line St.; 10.15, and 
Adonic of 7. 

Poutox (Robert), 1799-1827. 
Cours of Tims ( The), 1827 (10 bks.). Ep.; 


Porr (Alexawier), 1688-1744. 
Bathus or The Art of Sinking, 1727. 
Dunciad, pt pts. 1.-lii, 1726, publ. 1728, Iv. 1742. 
3 rh 


on an Unfortunate Lady, 1717. H.M.3; rh. 


Elotna to Abelard, 1717. .3 th. 
Epilogue to the Satires, 1738, HLM.; th. 
Besay on Criticism, 1709. 0.Pm.3; H.M.; rh 
Emay on Man, 1733 (4 epist.). D.Pm.; H. M.srh 
ee: -iv. lt tb cuuip 1719 (begun 1713) 
Meamah, ih. Sacred Ecl.; H.M.; rh. 
MiscetLinesus Por ‘mn, 1709; “am, 
Moral Fasoys, 1731 (5 epint.). H. LM. rh. 
Ode on St. Cecilia’s May, 1708. Pn. 
Odyney, 1725 (begun 1721). HLM.; rb. 
4) Pastorala, 1709. HLM. 3 rb. 
a“ ure Lack, 1712. H.C, poem in 6 cantos. 
M.3 rhb. 
Satirva, 1734. HLM.; rb. (Free imitations 
of the aitires and epistles of Horace.) 
Temple of Fame, 171). H.M.; rb. 
Windsor Forest, 1704, 1713. H.M.; rh. 


DATES OF POEMS AND NOVELS. 1168 
Prior ( Matthew), 1664-1731. 


ven 1717 (3 cant.). D.Pm.; lamb.; 8, ra. 

Carmen Seculare, 1700. Irr.m. 

City Mouse and Country Mouce, 1688. (In 
ridicule of Dryden’s Hind and Panther.) 

Solomon, 1718 (3 bks.). H.M.; rh. 


Puctocg (Robert), ? 1724-21771. 


Peter Wilkins, 1760. Rom. ; pr. 


QuaRtes (Francis), 1593-1644. 


Alphabet of Klegies (The), 1626. (On Dr. 
Aylmer.) 


Enchiridion of Meditations, 1641. Fa. and 
Ap horisms. 

Loyal Convert, 1644. 

Song of Anarchus. 


RicuargpD oF Crxexcestee (Richardus Cortaen- 


sis), 1320-1401 (historian). 
De Situ Britanniw, 1355. Lat pr. 
Historia ab Hengista ad Ann. 1348. Lat. pe. 


RIcHakDson (Samuel), 1689-1761 (novelist). 


Clarissa Hlariowe, 1748. 
Pamela, 1740. 
Sir Charles Grandison, 1753. 


Rivury (James), ? 1983-21777 (paeadonym, air O, 


Morell). 
Tales of the Gienfi, 1751; pr. 


Ritson (Joseph), 1752-1803. 


Ancient Sung, ete., 1790; d.m. 
Robin Houd Ballads, 1795; d.m. 
Scottish Songs, 1794; dim. 


Roch mstex (oan Wilmot, earl af), 1647-1689. 


My Dear istress has a Heart, 1668 ; 3 8 
of 8 lin; 8.9. (Spofforth velected these 
words for a glee, 4 voices.) 

Upon Nothing, ® 3 tine St. ; 10.10.14, triple rh. 


Rouras (Samue/), 1763-1858. 


Columbus, 13123 (13 oant.). H.M.; rh. 
Humuno Life, 1819. D.P.; H.M.; rb. 
mreony 1823 ANTS i. 22 subjects; pt. i. 24 sub- 


Jacqueline, 1814. Tam. 8a, rh. 

Pe rh of Memory, 1792 "a pts.). D.Pm. 3 
Su wailonand other Puems, 1786-1806 ; d.m. 
Table Talk, pusthumous 1856; pr. 


SACKVILLE (Thomas), earl of Dorset, 1536-1608. 


Mirrvur for Magistraytes, 1657. D.Pm.; 7 line 
St.; H.M.; rb. 
(For Gorbduc, see Arrxemx 1) 


Savack (Richard), 1698-1743. 


Hustard (The), 1728. HLM; rh. 
Wanderer (The), 1729 (5 cant.). D.Pm.; H.M.; 


Scor Ciegtnutd), 1545-1599. 


Discoverie of Witchcraft, 1584; pr. (This book 
was burnt by the coummoa bangman. 
W.. Scott wrote letters on demouology os 
witcbersf. 


Soort (Sir Walter), 1771-1832, 


Abbot, 1830 (time, Elizabeth). Nov. 

Anne of Geierstein, 1829 (time, Edward 1V.) 
Nov, 

Antiquary, 1416 (time, George I1I.). Nov. 

Aunt Margarct’s Mirror (time, W ML). 

“ule. 
Battle of Sempach, 1818. St. 8.8. 
Betruthed, 1835 (time, Henry IL\. Nev. 


1166 


Black Dwarf, 1816 (time, Anne). Now, 
Funder Minstrelsv, levi | Thomas the Riymer, 
pis.) Cle 

iridal of I'riermain, 1813 (3 cant). Rom, ia 
¥.4 35, Fo 

Bride of Lammermoor, 1419 (time, William 

[il.). Nov. 

Casiie Dangerous, 1231 (time, Hoory 1. Nov. 

Count Mabert of Marts, 133) (tim, Rufus) Now, 

Domne ly aid Wotehw rat, J s40 (letters): pr. 

e, Henry LV.).Nov. 


Fair urdot Peru dads (riv 

I i r (| Pie), Leola, Hul.; Adem.: rh 

Fur a tutt of’ «a tbat, 154. Sung; 6 Line 
—f - = 7 

Fortuges of Sigel, 19822 (time, James l.y. Nov, 

Frederick and Alice, LEOI Bail: St: 8s 


Wi, (sew If } i 
(6 cant). Rom, 


folly Al i | r isla 
Harolal Liat Lian 
i ¥.5 Oe Fil. 


Ltiart of Atha) 


r 5 
=P 
a | ' 


hian, 1418 (time, George IT). 


he ¥ 
Helwellon, 1805. Bal.:9 line Sto: Alex. s altace 
Highland Widuiew, LS27 (lime, George Il.) Tule. 
lI vf iy ij, lagi Hist ; pr 
Hunting Song, 14044 4 line Sty Ts 


Cues, Riehatd |). Not 
Konllworth, PS20 (ime, Elizabeth), Seow, 
* Jake, 15049 (6 cunt}. Thom, in 


tire, Elizabet li) By ic, 
t Minstrel, 1605.6 cant.). Ror. 
rode, 1819 (time, Charlra [.}. 


| iif 1 hye Lali Rom. in 


a, 1815 (6 cant.) 


APPENDIX IL. 





Cloud (The), 1#20. 








Bueiter (Perey Bysshe), 1792-1821 


Adonsis, 1621. A Mon. on Keats 

Alastor or The Spirit of Solitude, It 
H.M.s tow. 

Arethusa, 1620. (Ode. 

Uhde, 

Epipsychidion, 1821. 

Sulton and Maddalo, 1820, “ A Conversetia” 
HM. = rh, 

Ode to the West Wind. 

a Mab, 1813 (aged 12), In rhythm od 
rhyme. 

Revolt of Islam, 1817 (12 cant.). Spm 

Rosalind and Helen. Dial.: H.M.: rh 

Skylark she), 1820. Ode ~ § lime St. = 7.7-7-7.15 

Witch of Atlas, 1B20 (com posed in turer days) 
(For his dramatic pieces, sce AProxoc L) 


SH KAPITI F ( William), 17 J 4—li 6. 


(8) Elegies, 1743-46. 

Jammy Dawson, 1746. Gal: Ga. 

Judgment of Hercules, postbumeus 176. 
D.fim.; H.M.: rh. 

Odes, Somes, and Ballads, 1750-54; dm. 

Pastoral [allad, 1743(4 pts.); 8 line St.; s,m 

Progress of Taste, posthumous 1Té4 (+ pea); 
#8, ri. 

Schoo! mistress, 1758, Spm. 

Wiitten at an Inn at Henley, UTA. (In pra 
of inn life); 4 line St.; sa, rh, 


Sipser (Sir Philip), 1554-1586, 


Arcadia, 1540, published 1590-93. An berot 
romance ; P Pr, 

Astrophel and Stella (a collection of snp 
and sonnets), posthameous 1591; dum. 


Dele © of Pus =F, 1583, published 1595; cs 


SMOLLETT ( Migs), 1721-1771 (novela). 


Adventures of an Atom, 1769. 
Ferdinand Count Fathom, 1763. 
Humphry Clinker, 1770, 
Peregrine Pickle, 1751, 

A-- = pet LP 7 


a 








DATES OF POEMS AND NOVELS. 1167 


Rotkrick, the Last of the Goths, begun 1800, | Drapler’s Letters, 1734. (Against Wood's 
finished 1814 (24 subdivisions Ep. 3 halfpence and farthings); pr. — 
H.M.; b.v Gulliver’s Travels, 1727. Tales; pr. 


St. Patrick's Purgatory, 1801. Bal; 6 line 8, 

Tale vf Paraguay, 1314 (4 cant.). Sp.m. 

‘Thalaba the Destroyer, 1800 (12 bks.). Dr.Pm.; 
rhythm not rhyme. 

Vision of Judgment, 1822 (12 subdivisions). 
(The apothevusia of George 111.) Hex. 

Welt of St. Reyne (The), 1798. Bal; ¢ line 

3 11.7. 
(For Wat T ler, see Arrrxpix I) 

Brexser ( Xdmund), 1553-1599. 

aur Lies. A Past. Eleg.; 6 line 8t.; 

3 Ph. 

Colin Clout's Come Home Again, 1591 (? 1594). 
H.M.; alt.rb. 

Court of Cupid (The), * (lost). 

Dephnaida, 1592 (7 fita). An Eleg in 7 line 
Sc.; H.M., with an Alex. 

Dreama, 1520 (loat), 

Dying Pelican (The), 1580 (lost). 

Epithalamium, 1595, A murtiage song; 18 
line St.; HM. rh. 

Faery Queen, bks. {.-lil. 1590, iv.-wvi. 1896 (6 
allegurical rumanovs, partly connected 
Sp.in. 

«) Hymns, 1896 (Love, Beaaty, Heavenly 

ave, Heavenly Beauty). 

Legrida, * (lost). 

Mother Hubberd’» Tale, 1591. H.M.; rh. 

Muiupoiwos or The Fate of the Butterfly, 
1590. 55 &line St.; HLM.; rh. 

Pr: thalamion, 1596. Spousal verses. 

Purgatory of Lovers, © (lost). 

Ruins of Rome, 1590 (33 sonnets of Bellay 
translated). 

Ruins of Time, 1590; 97 8t.; Sp.m. 

Shepheardes Culendar, 1879 (12 EcL.); dm, 

Blomber, 1579 (lust). 

Sonnets, 1593-83 (lust). 

Tears of the Muses, 1590; 6 line Sa; H.M.; rb. 

Virgil’e Gnat, about 1588. (A translation of 
the Culer); & line 3t.; H.M., with an 
Alex.; rh. 

Visions of the World’s Vanity, 1890 (12 
sonnets). 

(His nine “ comedies” are all leat.) 

Braanr. (/arwrence), 1713 -1768. 

Sentimental Journey, 1768; pr. (it was in- 
temkd to be jottings in a juarney through 
lain) and Italy, but be never reached 

taly. 


Polite Conversation, 1738; pr. 

Pridictionsa, 1708 (a jeu desprit under tho 
peeudonym of Isaac Bickerstaff). 

Ge) Riddles, 1724; p.; 8s. 
cla (7U), 1720-28 (Birthday Ode each year) 

Tale of a Tub, 1704. Set. in pr. on Calvin, 
Luther, and the pope. » 


Swixsuaxe (Algernon ('.), 1837- 


Puems and Ballads, 1866 ; d.m. 


Tales oft the Genii, by eir Chas. Morell (the 


of Rev. James Ridley), 1764; pr. 


pee 
TanXangite (Hobert), 1774-1810 (Scotch poet 


Flower of blane (The), 1807. Sung; 8 
St.; Alex.; ateb. » , 


Txxreon ( 4ifred), 1809- 


Charge of the Light B , 1854. Bt; Te. 
Dying Swan, 1830 (3 subdivisions); d.m. 
Exrly Poems; d.m. 
Enoch Ardcn, 1864. H.ML; bv. 
Hero and Leander, 1830. 

7) Idylls of the King, 1868-59. H.M.; b.v. 

1) Memoriam, 1850 (131 subdivisions); 4 line 

St.; as, th. 1.4,2.3. 

Lady Clara Vere de Vere, 1833 ; 8 line St. ; Sa, rh 
Lilian, 1830. 
Locksley Hall, 1833; 2 line 8t.; 168, rh. 
Lotus-Eater, 1833. H.M.; rb. 
Mariana, 1830 (2 pte.). 
Maud, 1465 (3 pts.); d.m. 
Mermaid, 1830; d.m. 
Miller's Daughter, 1833; 8 lime S.; Sa, alt.rh 
Oriana, 1830. Bal. 

Princess eg 1s30 (7 pe.) H.M.; bv. 
Revenge (The), 1878. aval sung. 
Siege of Lucknow, 1379. 
Wellingtun ( Death of the Duke of), 1862. Ode. 

(For dramatic pieces, see Arraxpix I.) 


THaCKeRaY (Willam Mak peace), 1811-1863. 


Adventures of Philip, 1561. Nov, 
Barry Lyndon, 1483. Nov. 

Rook of Snobs, 1548 5 pr. 

English Humeourisxta, 1853; pr. 
Eamuond, 1"62. Nov. 

Four Gicorges, 1860. Lectures; pr. 
Newcomen, 1355. Nov. 

Pendennis, 1450. Nov. 

Vanity Fair, 1246-48. Nov. 
Virginians, 1859. Nov. 


Tristram Shandy, 1759-67. Nev. 

Brow (John), 1525-1605. 

Annals of England, 1580; pe. 

Summary ot the Chronicles of Engiand, 1661 ; pr. 
Survey of London, 1693; pr. 

Brown (Mrs. Heecher), 1814 

Dred, 1856. Nov, 


THOMPOON ( William), 1738-1766. 

Sicknena, 1746; p. 
Tomson (Alezander), 1763-1863. 

Paradise of Taste, 1 90 (6 cant.); dm. 
THomsox (Jaume), 1700-1748. 

Autumn, 1730. Des.Pm.; H.M.3 b.v. 

Britannia, 1734. H.M.; b.v. 
Minister's Wooing, 1859. Nov. Castle of Indolence, 1748 (2 cant.). mn. 
Pearl of Orr’a Islnd, 1862; pr. Liberty, 1735 (5 pts.). HLM.; bv. ‘Cthooght 
Sunny Memories, etc., 1854; pr. by Thompon himself to be hie best poem. 
CUnele Tom's Cabin, 1482. Nov. Rule Britannia, 1740. Song; lamb.; 86; 4 
Bwirt (Jonathan), 1667-1746. St., with 2 of chorus Troch. (Written for 
Arguments for the Abolition of Christianity, the masque calld A(/red.) 

170%, Sat.; pr. Seanons (cumplete), 1730. 
Battle of the Buvks, 1704. A burlesque Alleg. 3 Spring, 1723. Dea.Pim.; H.M.; be. 


pr. Summer, 1737. Des.Pm.; H.M.; bv. 
Cadenus and Vanessa, 1713. Jamb.; 8a, rh. 


Winter, 1726. Des.Pm.; H.M.; bv. 
Clty Shower ( Description ofa), 1710. H.M.; rh. (For bis dramatic picces, see Arranncx I) 


o anena, J 
'oma aud Jer Ty, by Pi on 
Turkish 3 } 


DY, ty A. ay Ys 
ik Pe Saye, 


ord o sal ‘I 
ih \ Thoang: Woda. out, 
Fi. Hasae gg’ Paine ‘es if (1 
1657 os ses “EPs g 
Poin: fury, abut } 


Valentin and 
Va i i 
“s T Leuat: ry 
6.6. 


r Orson, : 
ay a vile. 3 
tet Tadd le ye 1, 
.8, alt ry, Chis jevm 
Any, beeatis: Cae Gravel: ch 
Vuk w jr. 
Apc kix. ard a epids. 
Ald cise “Stiria; sting 
buss oPslay s : [»- 
‘or DUch y urs st Lu. ‘a, 
Wacy Caren *abone Tu) r.3. 
Brita’ Ane ft x . 
Hist ye. 


RODS be Ker (re, n toy, 1170( 
Uuke sop Paty ty lly); 
B. Ai “<, 


ieee euiel), 


i6u5 lt-7 
Weieg Hoge }, I. M 
beeye, a " an a, vty, EY, Yy. M. 
| ree oe i’ CAR ote 
Iny tran gy 


I, 


ale Ih} ae of ah t Th 
Hwy 


Te My hes 1 Ir. ia &, tm 1638, Tur 
a : i M.; Ti, 
T. “Ky z 


gets 11) on His p 
oh nr “a? 
Woon 


sala bin. ['-: whee uf Orange, ic 
MT y es, wh, 
Was. as ‘ an TT 
be, ¥ 1 f. 


SLT th 19305 pp, 


Pd Ye matlab O Noy 
lV. fey t Lugs " ved: it: ot), 
lo Pb Jee. i ly vp i 
ia: ra: pir 

‘ Beast : a] is iad * 








DATES OF POEMS AND NOVELS. 





1169 





FOREIGN. 


ZEsop, Fables, about s.c. 670. Greek ees Hex, 

Amavis pe Gach, b gun by Vasco de Lobrira, 
14th cent.; finished by sundry hands, 15th 
cent. (Nd french pr. 

Arabian Nights, firat published in Paris 
by Antony Gall.nd, 170817. The beat are 
Indian; the sentimental love tales are 
Persian; the witty, comical ones are Arabic. 
Arabic pr. tales. 

Arcoxarts (Tie), by Apollonius Rhodius, 
about B.c. 200 (4 bks). Greek Ep.; Hex. 
Translited into English by Fawkes and 
Green, 1740; und in English verse by W. 
Prestun 1803. II.M.; rh. 


Cururse Taxes, by Gurulctte. 1723. Prench pe. 

Chrestien de Troyes, the Chevalier au 
Lion, Chevalier de Epée, Sir Lancelot da 
Lac, in metrical French (before 1200). 

Carontcies of Albericus Trium Fontium, 1242 
Iaun pr. > 

Cap ( The), 1010-1099. ‘The Spanish Chronicle of 
the Cid, 13th oent., first printed in 1541, and 
a second by M-dina del Cumpo, in 1552. 
The Spanish vem of the Crd dites from 
1207, ard 102 balluds on the Cid in Spanish 
were published in 1615. Southey publisbed 
an exerlient Enelish Chronicle in 103. 
Lockhart bis rend-red efght of them into 
English ballads; and George Dennis has 
strung togrtber, fn prose and verse, a con- 
nected tule of the great Spunish hero, 1845, 

(The Cid. in Spunish minance, occupies the 

same pesition as Arthur in English story, 
Charlem -gne tu French, and Theodorick in 
G: rman ) 

Coxtes pe irra, by Claude Perrault, 1607. 
French pr. fairy tales, 

Cagatiox or La Premiere Semaine, by Da 
Bartas, abuut 1570. French Ep.; HOM. 
English veriivo by Jochua Sylvester, 1605. 


Decameron, by Boccaccio, 1350. Italian pr. 
tales, An Enclish version by G. Standfast, 
and by many others, 

Diasce Teoiret x (Ih vil on Two Sticks), by 
Leng, 1707. Frevch pr. tale. 

Divina Comepta, by Danta: Inferno 1300, Pur- 
gata y 130%, Baad ee loll. Italian Ep. 
poems. English transbidons by Hoyd, 175 3 
Cary, Ist, bv.s Wright, 1*33, triple rh. 3 
Caley, 1851-55, ter.rb.; Pollock, 1554, b.v.3 
ete. 

Dux QuixeTr, by Givantes, pt. I. 1605, IT. 
1615. Spanish Nov. English versione by 
Durfey, Jarvia, Motteux, Skelton, Smollett 
1755, Wiimoet, ete. Allin pr. 


Fapees, by Lafontain:, 1668. F.ench; d.m. 


Fairy Tatia, by le comtcee D’Aunoy, 1682, 
Prench pr. 


Bancartva, by Ralelate, 1533. French Nov. 
Engtisb version by Urqubart and Motteux, 
1653. 

Gu Bras, by Lesaze, bka. 1-11. 1715, fv.-vi. 
3726, vil.-xl. 10:5. Prench Nov. Kang!ish 
versive by “mnulilett pr. 


Goaim Sronizs, by the brothers Grisam, 1812, 
German pr. 
Goethe. 1749-1832 (German). 
Achillisd (The), about 1300. 
Farbeniehre, 1810. 
Hermann and Dorothea, 1797. Poeaa. 
Metimorpbosis of Plants, 1790. Ea. 
Werther, 1774. Rom. 

Wilhelm Meister, prt. 1. 1794-06, 1. 1831. Rom. 
(For dratnatic picces, see Appexpix I.) 
GuListaNn iGamies Of Roees), by Saadi, 13th 

cent. Persian p. 


Hanrtapr, by Voltaire, 1724 (10 chants). 
French Ep, ; rb. 

Herbelot (/7), Riblothéque Orientale, an 
Oriental Miscellany, 1697. Prench pe. 
Hrropaviésa, an epitome of the Pancha Tuntra, 

Sth cent. B.c.  Mindd. 
Homer, Iliad (24 bks.), composed in the prime 
of his life, about B.c. 963. Greek Ep.; Hex, 

Ouys«-y (24 bks.), composed in maturer age, 
about Bc. 927. Grek Ep.; Hex. 

These poems were firat reduced to writing by 
Pisistratos of Athens, B.c. 631. Engl 
verstuns by Chapman, Alex., Iliad 1603, 
Odyssey 1614; Cowper, HM., b.v., 1791; 
Pope, HEM, rh., Jlead 1719, Odyssey 1725; 
lord Derby, [liad 1864; Worsley, Cdyssey, 
Sp.m., 1561; etc., ete. 


JuRcsacew DeELiveren, by Tasso, 1575. Ralian 
Ep. English version by Hoole; H.M.; rh; 
1762, 


Lokman., Fables, contemporary with David 
and Solomon. Araitan; d.m. 

Lustap, by Ganoensy, 1572 (in 10 Heat Portu- 
guess Ep. English veisions by Fanshawe, 
1655; and by Mickle, H.M., rh, 1775. 


Marssian, by Klopetock, bks. {.-lif. 1748, iv.-xv. 
1771. Ge:man Ep. There are English ver- 
sions bo:h in pr and v. 

MarraNourivexs, abvut a.p. 6, Ovid (in 18 
bks.). Latin; Hex. Engliwh version by 
Dr. Garth, assisted by Dryden, Congreve, 
Rowe, and several others, 1716. H.M.; rh. 

Moga. Taces, by Marmontel, 1761. French pr. 


Nipectxcre Liep, 1210 (in 39 adventures). 
From Snore Sturleson’s Budde. Old Gere 
man Ep. ‘Transplanted into Germany by 
the minnesingera. English version by 
Lettsum, 15850; Alex. 


Ontrxtat Tatra, by comte de Caylus, 1746, 
French pr. 

Ortaspuo Fruaicso, by Arlosto, 1516. Jtalsan 
Rem.; p. English version by Harringtoa, 
1634; an abridged version by Hoole, H.M., 
rh., 17x3; and a third by W.S. Rose, 1838 
Cinabridged). 

Orataxvo Isxaworato, by Bojardo, 1496 (in 3 
bka, unfinished). Jtalian Rom.; e. bree 
mere books were added, In 1531, by Agua- 
tru; and the whule was by 
Berni. 


Paxcna Tantra, a collection of Hindé fablea 
6th cent. Bc. finda, 
PawracrceyL, by Rabelais, 1545. French Nov 


dvs 









sn ie 
1170 Areen n 
English version by Urquhart and & 


—— : 
tice Aa AXD Vinca, by St. Pierre, 1188, # 
tale ; pr. 
Fhedrus, | rae | about a.m. 25 ele fr 


JEsop. 
PuARSALIA (ney. B Lacan, about Ap. 
io bes) Latin Ep.; Hex. & 
by Rowe, 1729; and a literal 
Kiley, in Mubn's series. |: 
Pilnay. Fables, compiled from the 
— and other sources, 4th cent. | 
ian. 


, Natural History, about a.0, 77, Taatin | me nov 
meee, Engl version by Bostock and Riley, | Ata 
i] 


eerirs. 
Plutarch, pi ee ig about a.p. 110-13, | 
Greek pr, En version Langhorne, 
na Me atlas’ hp Depata mee aeete re 


| 
 Unprsr, 






by Clough. All tn pr. 


Rervarp Tar Fox, 1498. German pr. 

BOWASCE OF THE Rose, by Guillaome de 
13th cent, Continnatien ney Jean de 
lth cent. 


—en by Chancer, fs fom: p. Bg 














JUN 8 - 1939 


