UNIVERSITY  OF 
ILL  ■  "'-^RARY 
AT  CHAMPAIGN -URB ANA 


READER*  S 
GUIDE  TO 
ILLINOIS 
LITERATURE 

Edited  by 
Robert  Bray 

with 

John  Hallwas 
James  Hurt 
Babette  Inglehart 
John  Knoepfle 


JIM  EDGAR  •  Secretary  of  State  and  State  Librarian 


A  publication  of  the  Illinois  State  Library  and  the  Illinois  Humanities 
Council,  with  support  from  the  Illinois  Library  Association  and  the  National 
Endowment  for  the  Humanities,  1985.  


UNIVERSITY  OF 
ILLi  iS  LIBRARY 
AT  Ui\-*^\iMA-CHAMPAIGN 
ILL  HIST.  SURVEY 


Copyright  ©  1 985  by  The  Office  of  the  Illinois 
Secretary  of  State 


For  information  about  this  book  and  the  READ  ILLINOIS 
program,  contact  the  Illinois  State  Library, 

288  Centennial  Building,  Springfield,  Illinois  62756. 


A  Reader^s  Guide  to  Illinois  Literature 


1 


INTRODUCTION  T  NONFICTION  ,  jO  1915  W  FICTION  SINCE  1915  f  POETRY  ▼  wKrK 


/ 


Printed  by  the  Authority  of  the  State  of  Illinois 
(49585— 5M— 10-85) 

II 


II 


A  READER’S  GUIDE  TO  ILLINOIS  LITERATURE 


torial  Board 

)ert  Bray,  Editor-in-Chief 
llinois  Wesleyan  University 

ncis  Pettis,  Associate  Editor 
llinois  Humanities  Council 


otu .  e I 

Cop.  4 


JTlI  H 


r 


U  tr  V 


j 


Bridget  L.  Lamont,  Director 
Illinois  State  Library 

Cindy  Baron,  Coordinator 
Illinois  State  Library 


iters  and  Scholars  Committee 


Bibliography  Committee 


bert  Bray,  (chair)  English 
llinois  Wesleyan  University 

in  Hallwas,  English 
iVestem  Illinois  University 

nesHurt,  English 
Jniversity  of  Illinois  (C-U) 

bette  Inglehart,  English 
"hicago  State  University 

in  Knoepfle,  English 
Sangamon  State  University 

incis  Pettis,  Associate  Director 
Illinois  Humanities  Council 


Clayton  Highum,  (chair)  Library  Director 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University 

Robert  Bray,  English 

Illinois  Wesleyan  University 

Dorothy  Haas,  Writer  and  Editor 
Chicago 

Francis  Pettis,  Associate  Director 
Illinois  Humanities  Council 

Donald  Wright,  Head  Librarian 
Evanston  Public  Library 

Cindy  Baron,  READ  ILLINOIS  Coordinator 
Illinois  State  Library 


Springfield,  Illinois 
1985 


iii 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


This  Reader’s  Guide  is  the  work  of  many  people  and  several  committees.  Its  sponsoring  institutions  are  recognized 
n  the  cover  and  title  page;  and  the  contributors  have  their  own  space  elsewhere,  too.  What  remains  is  to  acknowledge 
le  extraordinary  help  of  a  handful  of  people  whose  names  might  otherwise  be  missed.  First,  thanks  to  JoAnn  Dyas, 
ead  of  the  Word  Processing  Division  of  the  Data  Processing  Department  at  the  Secretary  of  State’s  Office.  She  put 
er  department  at  the  service  of  the  editor.  Thanks,  also,  to  Debbie  Evans,  Mary  Fry,  Julie  Watson,  Pam  Wilber,  and 
larti  Martin,  the  skilled  word-processing  operators  who  stared  at  their  screens  hour  after  hour  as  the  manuscript  shifted 
irough  seemingly  unending  changes.  They  did  so  with  patience  and  remarkable  concentration.  Kristina  Valaitis,  editor 
t  the  Illinois  Humanities  Council,  was  another  who  cheerfully  gave  assistance. 


My  deep  appreciation  goes  as  well  to  Jennifer  Gordon  and  Cindy  Baron  of  the  Illinois  State  Library.  Jennifer 
iordon  is  a  publicist  whose  expertise  in  preparing  a  book  for  publication  was  of  tremendous  help  in  the  later  stages  of 
le  Reader’s  Guide  project.  Cindy  Baron,  Coordinator  of  Read  Illinois,  provided  vision,  heart,  and  lots  and  lots  of  time 
3  the  Reader’s  Guide.  And  it  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  without  her  the  book  would  have  died  long  ago.  And,  finally, 
ly  special  thanks  to  Frank  Pettis,  Associate  Director  of  the  Illinois  Humanities  Council,  whose  conceptual  and  editorial 
ssistance  I  simply  couldn’t  have  done  without.  If  the  Reader’s  Guide  succeeds  in  its  purpose,  Frank  Pettis  deserves 
nuch  of  the  credit;  if  not,  well,  he’s  the  kind  of  person  who  wouldn’t  want  to  be  left  out  of  the  blame! 


<4 


Robert  Bray 
Bloomington 
August,  1985 


vn 


\IEN  /  SUPPLEMENTARY 

NONFICTION  \  TO  1915  4i  FICTION  SINCE  1915  A  POETRY  '  BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


CONTRIBUTORS  TO  THE  READER’S  GUIDE 


THE  ESSAYISTS: 


Robert  Bray  (editor-in-chief,  Fiction  to  1915)  is  professor  of  English  at  Illinois  Wesleyan  University  in  Bloomington  and 
a  member  of  the  Read  Illinois  Committee.  He  has  had  a  long-standing  interest  in  Illinois  and  midwestem  literature 
and  is  the  author  of  Rediscoveries:  Literature  and  Place  in  Illinois  (University  of  Illinois  Press,  1982). 

John  Hallwas  (Non-fiction)  is  professor  of  English  and  Director  of  Regional  Collections  at  Western  Illinois  University  ir  i 
Macomb.  Hallwas,  though  first  trained  in  medieval  British  literature,  has  made  a  specialty  of  western  Illinois  ' 
literature  and  culture,  publishing  widely  (both  articles  and  books)  in  magazines,  newspapers,  and  academic  journals. 
His  most  recent  book  is  Selected  Writings  of  Robert  G.  Ingersoll,  now  in  press. 

James  Hurt  (Fiction  since  1915)  is  professor  of  English  at  the  University  of  Illinois  (Champaign-Urbana).  Hurt  is  a  national!)  j 
recognized  authority  on  modem  drama,  but  has  also  regularly  written  on  the  subject  of  Illinois  literature.  Reader;  ' 
may  know  his  work  without  realizing  it,  for  James  Hurt  is  the  author  of  Abraham  Lincoln  Walks  at  Midnight,  whici 
has  been  produced  each  summer  since  1980  by  the  Great  American  People  Show  at  New  Salem  State  Park. 

Babette  Inglehart  (Women’s  Literature,  European  Ethnic  Bibliography)  is  professor  of  English  at  Chicago  State  University 
She  has  a  special  interest  in  Illinois  literature  by  and  about  women,  and  was  the  coordinator  of  the  1982  “Chicagt 
as  a  Literary  Place”  conference,  part  of  the  “Write-On  Chicago”  celebration  of  the  city’s  literary  heritage. 


John  Knoepfle  (Poetry)  is  a  professor  of  English  at  Sangamon  State  University.  A  Renaissance  scholar,  American  folklorist 
literary  critic  and  poet,  Knoepfle  has  written  many  books  and  articles  about  regional  literature  and  culture.  Tw( 
important  new  volumes  of  his  poetry  will  appear  in  1985:  Poems  from  the  Sangamon  and  Selected  Poems. 


THE  BIBLIOGRAPHERS: 

Dorothy  Haas  (Juvenile  Literature)  is  a  professional  writer  and  editor  living  in  Chicago. 

Nicolas  Kanellos  (Hispanic  Literature)  is  a  publisher  (Arte  Publico  Press)  in  Houston,  Texas. 

Steve  Cameron  Newsome  (Afro-American  Literature)  is  director  of  the  Vivian  G .  Harsh  Collection  of  Afro-American  History 
and  Literature,  Woodson  Regional  Library,  Chicago. 


viii 


CONTENTS 


Credits,  Aknowledgements 
Introduction 
Nonfiction 
Fiction  to  1915 
Fiction  Since  1915 
Poetry 
Women 

Supplementary  Bibliographies 


IX 


INTRODUCTION 
by  Robert  Bray 

Does  “Illinois  literature”  exist? 

Obviously,  yes:  since  so  many  books  about  Illinois  are 
on  the  library  shelves. 

Obviously,  no:  since  books  aren’t  written  about  states 
but  about  cultures. 

If  these  were  sides  in  a  debate,  the  authors  of/4  Reader’ s 
ruide  to  Illinois  Literature  would  emphatically  defend  the 
ffirmative:  there  is  indeed  such  a  thing  as  “Illinois  litera- 
ire” — and  quite  remarkable,  too.  But  the  truth  of  the  matter 
;n’t  at  all  obvious.  Literature  is  generally  held  to  be  the 
roduct  of  a  culture,  and  states — American  federated 
tates — are  not  cultures  in  themselves,  but  parts  of  a  national 
ulture.  How  can  an  artificially-created  “geo-political  entity 
haped  like  an  arrowhead”  be  said  to  possess  a  literature? 
md  what  is  uniquely  “Illinois”  about  Illinois  literature? 

We  intend,  of  course,  that  the  Reader’ s  Guide  itself 
e  the  answer  to  these  questions.  But  here  at  the  beginning 
It  owe  our  readers  a  few  words  of  explanation  about  the 
linking  and  planning  behind  this  work.  In  1981  Secretary 
f  State  and  State  Librarian  Jim  Edgar  created  the  Read 
linois  program  to  publicize  the  state’s  three  centuries  of 
terature — from  Marquette’s  1673  account  of  the  mythic 
iasa  Bird  to  the  latest  issue  of  TriQuarterly — and  bring 
5rgotten  or  neglected  works  before  the  reading  public.  In 
le  years  since  its  founding.  Read  Illinois  has  sponsored 
nnual  Illinois  Literary  Heritage  conferences  and,  with  sup- 
ort  from  the  Illinois  Humanities  Council  and  the  Illinois 
ibrary  Association,  programs  on  Illinois  books  and  writers 
t  several  public  libraries  across  the  state.  As  such  activities 
)ok  shape  and  others  were  being  contemplated,  we  disco- 
ered  a  developing  problem:  suppose  we  were  able  to  con- 
ince  the  citizens  of  Illinois  to  seek  out  their  literary  heritage, 
^hat  should  they  read  and  where  could  they  find  it?  We 
snsed  a  need  for  a  reference  tool  to  help  such  an  audience 
irough  the  astonishing  breadth  and  depth  of  Illinois  litera- 
jre.  The  Read  Illinois  Committee,  again  with  the  generous 
nancial  assistance  of  the  Humanities  Council  and  the  II- 
nois  State  Library,  decided  to  empower  a  subcommittee 
f  scholars  from  around  the  state  who  would  design,  re- 
sarch,  and  write  such  a  reference.  The  result  is  A  Reader’s 
fuide  to  Illinois  Literature,  now  published  for  free  distribu- 
on  to  the  teachers,  librarians,  and  other  interested  readers 
f  Illinois. 

The  first  principle  of  the  Reader’s  Guide  is  that,  with 
ome  exceptions  in  the  poetry  essay  and  in  the  supplementary 
ibliographies,  the  only  literature  discussed  is  literature  that 
ses  Illinois  as  setting  or  subject  or  both.  In  a  sense,  this 
i  probably  as  arbitrary  as  the  state’s  own  boundaries, 
jranted  that  a  river  may  seem  a  more  natural  border  than 
surveyor’s  line,  it’s  still  true  that  when  people  cross  the 
dississippi  heading  west  out  of  Illinois,  the  cultural  point 
sn’t  that  they’ve  gone  to  Iowa  (or  Missouri),  but  that  they’ve 


crossed  the  Mississippi.  Regional  geography  is  more  impor¬ 
tant  than  state  lines.  If  this  makes  sense  with  Illinois’  western 
boundary,  how  much  more  so  with  the  east:  do  we  cease 
being  “Hoosiers”  and  suddenly  become  “Suckers”  when  we 
walk  from  one  cornfield  to  another,  just  as  the  westering 
pioneers  plodded  from  one  section  of  prairie  to  another, 
unaware  that  somewhere  a  few  miles  beyond  the  Wabash 
an  imaginary  line  changed  their  legal  status  to  Illinoisans? 

Insisting  on  “pure  Illinois”  unfortunately  means  omit¬ 
ting  a  number  of  books  important  to  midwestem  culture. 
One  that  immediately  comes  to  mind  is  Joan  Chase’s  recent 
and  marvelous  novel.  During  the  Reign  of  the  Queen  of 
Persia,  ruled  out  simply  because  the  setting  is  Ohio  rather 
than  Illinois,  even  though  the  subject — the  recollection  of 
a  rural  family’s  disintegration  under  the  pressures  of  modem 
urbanization — is  certainly  as  compelling  “right  here”  in  Il¬ 
linois  as  “back  there”  in  Ohio  (the  omission  is  especially 
ironic  because  Chase  was  a  resident  of  Illinois  when  she 
wrote  the  book). 

And  likewise  goodbye  to  one  of  the  state’s  most  famous 
“expatriates,”  Ernest  Hemingway.  Hemingway  may  have 
borne  the  burden  of  an  Oak  Park  adolescence,  either  as 
cross  or  chip  on  the  shoulder,  wherever  he  traveled  around 
the  world.  But  the  distinctively  “Illinois”  coloring  of  this 
existential  pain  didn’t  get  into  Hemingway’s  books,  and 
therefore,  for  better  or  worse,  Hemingway  didn’t  get  into 
the  Reader’s  Guide. 

Our  focus  is  on  literature  about  Illinois:  its  history  and 
mythology,  its  social  character  and  politics;  its  people  and 
landscape.  The  authors  and  bibliographers  have  reviewed 
hundreds  of  works  by  Illinois  writers  past  and  present, 
Chicago  and  downstate,  selecting  from  among  these  some 
of  the  finest  and  best-known  books,  as  well  as  those  that 
are  the  most  significant  in  terms  of  Illinois  subject  matter. 
Many  of  the  titles  are  obscure;  many  others  would  make 
highbrow  literary  critics  sneer;  a  few,  on  the  other  hand, 
are  masterpieces  by  any  standard.  But,  good  or  bad,  we 
believe  that  every  work  mentioned  in  the  Reader’s  Guide 
is  worth  reading,  both  for  literary  pleasure  and  for  instruction 
in  the  Illinois  character. 

One  of  the  hallmarks  of  a  distinctive  literary  tradition 
is  the  influence  of  books  on  other  books.  Writers  of  one  era 
rediscover  earlier  works,  which  they  read  and  assimilate, 
thus  continuing  the  tradition,  the  “living  chain”,  for  one  more 
generation.  Illinois  is  rare  among  states  in  having  a  strong 
literary  tradition,  lasting  unbroken  from  before  the  Civil 
War  well  into  the  20th  century.  “The  matter  of  Lincoln”  is 
of  course  paramount  in  this  tradition,  but  it  is  far  from  being 
the  whole  story.  Here’s  a  wonderful  example:  old  Peter 
Cartwright,  the  indefatigable  Methodist  itinerant,  finally  sits 
still  long  enough  in  Pleasant  Plains  to  write  his  autobiog¬ 
raphy,  which  is  published  to  the  acclaim,  the  amusement, 
and  perhaps  even  the  edification  of  America  in  1856.  One- 
hundred  and  twenty-five  years  later,  the  poet  John  Knoepfle, 
working  the  Sangamon  bottom-lands  for  material,  comes 
across  Cartwright’s  Autobiography  and  finds  a  poem: 


XI 


YEN  ,  SUPPLEMENTARY 

NONFICTION  \  TO  1915  .i  FICTION  SINCE  1915  |  POETRY  '  BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


peter  Cartwrights  dream 

monday  in  my  night  visions 
I  thought  I  went 
on  a  fishing  expedition 
and  I  drew  up  and  threw  out 
many  excellent  fish 

at  length  I  felt  that  a  large  fish 
or  something  else 
had  got  hold  of  my  hook 
I  began  to  draw  whatever  it  was  out 
but  it  came  slow  and  pulled  heavy 

at  length  I  drew  it  to  land 
and  behold  it  was 
a  large  mud  turtle 
I  awoke  and  lo  it  was  a  dream 
and  I  was  glad  of  it 

Anyone  who  cares  to  check  can  find  this  passage  on  147 
of  Cartwright’s  Autobiography.  Knoepfle  has  scarcely 
changed  anything,  simply  discarding  a  word  or  phrase  now 
and  then,  removing  all  of  the  punctuation,  and  arranging 
the  lines.  A  “found  poem,”  in  other  words,  and  quite  a 
tribute  to  Peter  Cartwright. 

Knoepfle  is  a  scholar  as  well  as  a  poet,  and  he  has 
written  a  fine  “geography  of  Illinois  poets”  for  this  book 
(modestly  omitting  himself,  by  the  way).  His  Poems  from 
the  Sangamon  (University  ot  Illinois  Press,  1985)  con¬ 
stitutes  a  masterful  use  of  Illinois  materials.  The  poems 
are  singular  in  their  vision,  yet  thoroughly  aware 
that  others  have  turned  the  ground  over  before.  This  is 
tradition.  Without  multiplying  examples  or  belaboring  the 
point,  we  might  follow  this  pattern  of  influence  originating 
with  Peter  Cartwright.  Francis  Grierson  adapts  Cartwright 
stories  for  his  The  Valley  of  Shadows  (1909);  Harold  Sinclair 
uses  them,  along  with  Grierson’s  unmatched  description  of 
an  Illinois  camp-meeting,  in  his  historical  novel  about 
Bloomington,  American  Years  (1938);  Carl  Sandburg  notes 
the  political  antagonism  between  Cartwright  and  Lincoln  in 
the  1830s  and  1840s,  and  quotes  Grierson  on  Lincoln  in  his 
biography  The  Prairie  Years  (1928).  And  now  Cartwright, 
Lincoln  and  Sandburg  are  all  part  of  Knoepfle’s  Poems  from 
the  Sangamon .  And  so  it  goes:  only  a  matter  of  time  before 
Knoepfle’s  work  is  used  in  turn  to  help  a  new  generation 
make  sense  of  a  constantly  refigured  Illinois. 

It  might  be  objected  that  what  began  as  history  ended 
up  poetry.  Yet  what  finally  is  the  difference?  Cartwright 
was  remembering,  without  the  aid  of  a  journal  or  other 
documentary  props,  what  he  thought  he  had  dreamed  a  long 
time  before  in  Kentucky.  He  told  the  story  as  true,  and  we 
tend  to  believe  him.  Is  Knoepfle’s  found  poem  any  less 
true,  less  historical,  less  important  to  understanding  what  s 
left  in  us  of  old  Illinois? 

The  tradition  represented  by  Sandburg  and  Edgar  Lee 
Masters  and  Vachel  Lindsay,  to  mention  three  of  its  most 
famous  names,  is  familiar  to  us,  and  still  dominates  our 
thinking  about  Illinois  literature.  But  “the  tradition,”  as  we 


might  dignify  it,  is  only  partial.  It  ignores  Chicago  and  the 
cultural  pluralism  of  ethnic  and  immigrant  Illinois.  And  we 
should  not  forget  that  earlier  20th  century  literature  reacted 
fiercely  against  many  of  the  artistic  forms  and  values  of 
“the  tradition.”  For  contemporary  Illinois  writers,  moreover, 
there  is  often  little  in  it  they  think  worth  reacting  to.  In  his 
essay  on  20th  century  fiction  for  the  Reader's  Guide,  James 
Hurt  quotes  Maxine  Chernoff,  a  contemporary  Chicago  writ¬ 
er,  on  just  this  point: 

The  male  tradition  seems  to  me,  in  my  own 

writing,  as  distant  as  what  Carl  Sandburg  did 

in  poetry,  say,  1  would  never  attempt  to  do  it 

now  or  want  to  follow  it. 

This  is  not  so  much  a  criticism  as  an  observation  about  the 
realities  of  contemporary  Chicago  writing.  Chernoff  is 
speaking  primarily  of  the  novelists  James  T.  Farrell  and 
Nelson  Algren,  but  the  irrelevance  reaches  back  at  least  to 
Sandburg  and  probably  further.  Contemporary  black  and 
Latino  writers  could  echo  Chernoff  s  words.  They  are  form¬ 
ing  new  traditions  necessarily  not  founded  on  the  old. 

The  Reader’s  Guide  treats  “the  tradition”  with  due  re¬ 
spect.  But  we  have  not  tried  to  superimpose  its  profile  on 
a  contemporary  literary  map  that  looks  very  different,  nor 
to  deny  the  importance  of  popular  literature  or  even  books 
that  seem  to  have  been  written  in  relative  isolation  from  any 
tradition.  While  the  essays  and  their  companion  bibliog¬ 
raphies  do  not  cover  everything,  they  are,  we  think,  remark¬ 
ably  broad  in  scope,  given  the  constraints  of  time  and  space. 
And  we  hope  that  the  supplementary  bibliographies  (the 
literature  of  Ethnic  Europeans,  Afro-Americans.  Hispanics. 
and  juveniles)  will  help  interested  readers  to  map  a  course 
of  study  in  areas  that  have  been  unfamiliar  to  us  but  shoulc 
remain  so  no  longer. 

The  Reader’s  Guide  is  intended  for  high  school  ant 
college  teachers  and  their  students,  for  librarians  and  thei 
patrons,  and  for  the  general  reader.  But  it  is  not  a  textbook 
We  think  it  will  work  well  as  a  sourcebook  and  an  aid  u 
discussion,  but  we  have  tried  to  avoid  the  sort  of  blan( 
continuity  found  in  most  textbooks,  and  to  make  our  cast 
for  Illinois  literature  without  any  overarching  interpretiw 
framework.  The  scholars  whose  work  appears  in  the  Reai 
er’s  Guide  were  commissioned  in  part  because  we  haw 
worked  long  and  hard  in  the  field  of  Illinois  and  midwesten 
literature;  but  also  in  part  because  we  have  taught  the  subject 
either  in  high  school  or  college  (occasionally  in  both),  am 
are  aware  of  the  special  challenges  involved  in  teaching. 

Our  charge  was  to  survey  the  subject  as  if  there  wer 
suddenly  a  statewide  mandate  to  institute  courses  in  lllinoi 
literature  in  the  schools.  But  at  the  same  time  we  wer 
encouraged  to  speak  in  our  own  voices,  to  write  in  a  corr 
fortable  style,  and  to  interpret  as  we  saw  fit.  And,  from  th 
combined  perspective  of  editor  and  contributor,  1  can  safel 
say  that  we  have  done  so.  Each  essay  reads  individualK 
While  we  never  flatly  contradict  one  another,  and  prett 
much  agree  on  the  historical  patterning  of  Illinois  literature 
the  essays  have  different  points  of  view,  and  our  interpret 


xii 


)ns  and  evaluations  of  particular  texts  occasionally  disag- 
e.  Because  of  the  division  of  the  subject,  the  essays  in 
e  Reader's  Guide  have  a  small  amount  of  redundancy — 
storical  overlap  when  periods  don’t  neatly  begin  or  end 
nd  they  rarely  do),  texts  discussed  as  more  than  one  kind 
literature,  and  books  popping  up  in  more  than  one  essay 
r  no  other  reason  than  that  they  are  favorites  of  the  authors ! 

But  perhaps  the  most  important  disclaimer  to  make  in 
is  Introduction  is  that  this  book  is  not  a  comprehensive 
erary  history  of  Illinois.  A  Reader’s  Guide  for  Illinois 
terature  is  limited  and  provisional.  Given  the  constraints 
space — and  our  own  fallibility  as  scholars  looking  at  a 
St  subject — it  was  inevitable  that  some  worthy  literature 
3uldn’t  be  discussed.  And  now  and  then  a  notable  writer 
notable  text  simply  fell  through  the  cracks  between  class- 
cations:  the  genial  George  Ade,  for  instance,  who  ended 
I  neither  fish  (non-fiction)  nor  fowl  (fiction),  but  only  a 
bliographic  entry.  In  my  essay  on  early  Illinois  fiction 
left  Ade  out  on  the  grounds  that  he  was  a  journalist; 
liile  John  Hallwas,  who  did  the  essay  on  Illinois  non-fic- 
)n,  decided — and  rightly  so,  as  I  now  see  in  retrospect — 
at  Ade  was  a  short-story  writer.  But  my  comfort  is  that 
;orge  Ade  is  popular  enough  to  survive  such  a  slight, 
id  that  we’ll  give  him  his  due  in  the  next  edition  of  the 
mder’ s  Guide. 

In  doing  this  book  we  have  learned  a  good  deal  about 
s  hidden  continuities  in  Illinois  literature.  Knoepfle  men- 
3ns  a  place  in  Chicago  called  “The  Black  Cat  Club, ’’where 
intemporary  poets  meet  to  read  and  carry  on.  And  I  disco- 
red  a  little-known  book  by  James  Corrothers  with  the 
me  name.  The  Black  Cat  Club  (1902),  which  was  set  in 
licago’s  “Levee”  district  at  the  turn  of  the  century,  and 


which  humorously  sketched  the  shenanigans  of  that  era’s 
poets  in  ways  that  would  surely  be  recognized  by  today’s 
habitues  of  “The  Black  Cat  Club.” 

There  is  probably  a  connection  between  these  two 
“Black  Cats”,  felt  rather  than  known  by  the  poets  who  are 
continuing  and  refashioning  a  Chicago  tradition.  These  and 
other  splices  between  past  and  present  are  one  of  the  impor¬ 
tant  reasons  for  publishing  this  Readers  Guide.  We  have 
reason  to  hope  that  our  work  will  be  a  useful  reading  refer¬ 
ence  and  a  hint  of  what  might  be  the  shape  and  scope  of 
the  “final”  Illinois  literary  history,  when  that  book’s  time 
eventually  comes.  In  the  meantime,  on  behalf  of  all  the 
authors  and  contributors,  please  accept  my  sincere  invitation 
to  make  free  use  of  the  Reader’s  Guide  in  your  discovery 
or  rediscovery  of  our  literature.  And  allow  me  to  close  with 
a  written  version  of  some  words  spoken  earlier,  at  the  first 
Illinois  Literary  Heritage  Conference  in  1983: 

I  cannot  precisely  say  what  constitutes  a  literary 
heritage,  and  the  why  of  the  matter — why  we 
have  one  and  Kansas,  say,  doesn’t — is  beyond 
my  ability  to  answer.  Yet  I  suspect  it  has  every¬ 
thing  to  do  with  myth.  In  Illinois  we  have  a 
myth  that  takes  like  a  child’s  smallpox  vaccina¬ 
tion:  an  original  infection  that  scars;  a  scar  that 
grows  and  itches  to  remind  us  of  a  virulent  past 
that  is  never  wholly  out  of  the  blood  generations 
later.  In  Illinois  we  imagine  that  our  place  has 
universal  importance  in  its  very  particularity. 
“Things”  have  happened  “here” — in  Chicago, 
in  Springfield,  “Egypt” — that  have  left  their 
mark  of  inoculation.  And  we  not  only  feel  their 
vestige,  we  recognize  what  happened  as  his¬ 
tory’s  version  of  what  is. 


•'■i. 


oo 


c/3 


XIII 


CO- 


II 


I.  NONFICTION 
by  John  E.  Hallwas 

INTRODUCTORY 

Contrary  to  the  popular  misunderstanding,  nonfiction 
not  prose  that  lacks  artistic  purpose  or  literary  value — at 
ist,  not  always.  Often  it  is  highly  artistic  prose  that  de- 
rves  to  be  read  with  the  same  careful  attention  as  a  novel 
short  story.  Such  writing  might  best  be  called  “literary 
infiction”:  essays,  speeches,  autobiographies,  descrip- 
ms,  histories,  and  other  works  which  display  a  fine  blend 
content,  form,  and  style;  which  both  analyze  experience 
d  synthesize  it  into  a  new  unity;  and  which  reveal  a  firm 
mmitment  to  contemporary  or  historical  factuality.  In  con- 
ist,  non-literary  non-fiction — textbooks,  reports,  news  ar- 
:les,  etc. — is  simply  written  to  provide  information.  It 
•es  lack  artistic  purpose. 

The  difference  between  literary  nonfiction  and  fiction 
that  commitment  to  factuality,  which  limits  nonfiction 
thors  options  with  regard  to  setting,  characterization,  story 
le,  theme,  and  details.  But  the  writers  of  nonfiction  still 
ve  considerable  interpretive  and  creative  freedom.  For 
ample,  autobiographers  and  biographers  select  and  ar- 
nge  a  multiplicity  of  experience  to  construct  a  unity  that 
mveys  an  individual  identity,  and  they  sometimes  use  fic- 
mal  techniques,  such  as  the  dramatic  scene  or  the  character 
etch.  Yet  their  writings  are  not  fiction.  This  is  the  essential 
stinction:  literary  nonfiction  is  an  artistic  reconstruction 
experience,  rather  than  an  artistic  limitation  of  experience, 
le  former  has  experiential  truth;  the  latter  has  the  truth  of 
3ry,  of  fable. 

That  readers  commonly  fail  to  recognize  the  literary 
ilue  of  nonfiction  is  especially  ironic  in  Illinois,  where  the 
eatest  short  literary  achievement  is  a  speech,  the  “Gettys- 
irg  Address,”  and  the  most  celebrated  book  is  a  biography, 
andburg’s  mammoth  life  of  Lincoln.  Moreover,  until  the 
osing  years  of  the  nineteenth  century,  nonfiction  was 
early  the  most  important  kind  of  Illinois  literature.  That 
not  surprising,  since  narrative-descriptive  accounts  of  the 
ontier  by  travelers  and  settlers  were  in  demand  back  East 
id  in  Europe  prior  to  the  Civil  War,  and  within  early 
linois  (and  the  entire  Midwest),  the  struggle  for  leadership 
as  conducted  with  speeches.  Later,  the  passing  of  the 
ontier,  the  elevation  of  Lincoln  to  the  status  of  national 
;ro  and  American  symbol,  and  the  growth  of  Civil  War 
jstalgia  fostered  much  reflective  and  historical  nonfiction. 

.  TRAVELERS’  AND  SETTLERS’  ACCOUNTS 

The  first  Illinois  author  of  any  significance  wrote  noth- 
ig  but  nonfiction,  and  his  works  are  still  underappreciated 
5  literary  art.  Morris  Birkbeck  was  a  British  emigrant  whose 
est  writing  relates  to  the  English  Settlement  near  the 
/abash  River,  which  he  co-founded  and  promoted.  His 
)umal  of  the  trip  from  Virginia  to  southeastern  Illinois, 


Notes  on  a  Journey  in  America  (1817),  is  a  vivid  chronicle 
of  his  encounter  with  America  and  his  search  for  a  suitable 
place  to  establish  his  community,  his  version  of  the  good 
society,  devoted  to  freedom  and  prosperity  for  all.  His  next 
book.  Letters  from  Illinois  (1818),  describes  the  cultural 
condition  of  the  frontier,  as  he  experienced  it,  and  reveals 
his  reasons  for  emigrating. 

Birkbeck  is  an  ideal  figure  to  head  the  Illinois  literary 
tradition,  for  his  two  most  important  books  depict  a  man  in 
the  process  of  relocating  himself  in  “a  new  country”  and 
re-defining  himself,  psychologically,  as  an  American.  Thus 
he  exemplifies  the  transformation  described  in  Crevecoeur’s 
famous  “What  is  an  American?”  section  of  Letters  from  an 
American  Farmer  (1782).  Those  contemporaries  who 
criticized  Birkbeck  for  being  too  positive  about  his  frontier 
experience  in  Letters  from  Illinois  failed  to  recognize  that 
the  book  is,  in  part — and  perhaps  in  essence — the  self-por¬ 
trait  of  a  genuinely  happy  man,  an  American  immigrant, 
striving  to  portray  “the  effect  of  this  great  change  of  condi¬ 
tion  upon  my  mind”  (p.  8).'  It  was  not  intended  to  be  simply 
an  objective  account  of  the  English  Settlement.  What  excited 
Birkbeck,  and  engaged  his  readers,  was  not  the  American 
frontier  but  his  vision  of  America  as  being  reborn  on  the 
frontier.  And  metaphorically,  the  “new  country”  was  also 
a  personal  frontier,  a  cultural  context  in  which  he  was 
being  reborn  (as  “Letter  VH”  reveals).  He  eventually 
emerged  as  an  outspoken  champion  of  liberty  in  his  anti¬ 
slavery  newspaper  essays.  Significantly,  they  appeared 
under  a  pseudonym  that  symbolized  his  new  identity, 
“Jonathan  Freeman.” 

Birkbeck  was  a  minor  de  Toqueville,  fascinated  with 
the  American  experiment.  He  was  a  frontier  Thoreau,  fo¬ 
cused  intently  on  his  own  experience  at  the  English  Prairie, 
his  Walden,  his  place  of  spiritual  renewal.  He  was  an  early 
Illinois  Jefferson,  devoted  to  freedom,  confident  in  the 
people,  committed  to  the  future,  and  pleased  to  be  part  of 
such  an  idealistic  social  compact.  As  he  says  in  “Letter 
XVI, “  reflecting  all  those  attitudes,  “Liberty  is  no  subject 
of  dispute  or  speculation  among  us  backwoods  men:  it  is 
the  very  atmosphere  we  breathe.  I  now  find  myself  the 
fellow-citizen  of  about  nine  millions  of  persons,  who  are 
affording  a  sober  and  practical  refutation  of  those  base  men, 
who.  .  .  have  dared  to  call  this  unalienable  birthright  of 
every  human  being  a  visionary  scheme”  (pp.  70-71). 
Birkbeck  maintained  his  mythic  conception  of  the  West  as 
“a  new  country,”  America  reborn,  despite  the  cultural  regres¬ 
sion  from  Enlightenment  social  ideals  that  was  evident  in 
his  crude  backwoods  neighbors.  His  writing  reminds  us  that 
Illinois  has  been  a  particularly  fertile  soil  for  nurturing  the 
American  Dream.  The  persistence  of  that  dream  amid  dis¬ 
couraging  realities  is  a  central  theme  in  the  nonfiction  of 
the  Prairie  State. 

All  accounts  by  early  travelers  and  settlers  in  Illinois, 
as  elsewhere,  have  the  common  purpose  of  describing  “a 
new  country” — that  is,  an  unsettled  or  recently  settled  area. 
But  works  by  travelers  tend  to  be  rather  superficial.  They 
are  more  apt  to  please  through  literary  style  or  variety  of 
content  than  through  analysis  or  insight,  and  they  seldom 


.  I 


CO 

oi 


CO 


cs 

pn 


tJ 

o 


reflect  the  individuality  of  the  author  as  well  as  settlers’ 
accounts  do. 

One  of  the  finest  books  by  an  early  Illinois  traveler  is 
Edmund  Flagg’s  The  Far  West  ( 1838),  composed  of  a  series 
of  articles  written  for  the  Louisville  Journal.  The  author 
was  deeply  influenced  by  Romantic  literature,  especially 
landscape  poetry,  and  he  viewed  himself  as  a  sort  of  Childe 
Harold  of  the  Mississippi  Valley,  roaming  on  a  pilgrimage 
of  poetic  prose.  Hence,  his  descriptions  often  blend  details 
of  the  wilderness  landscape,  or  the  old  French  settlements 
along  the  Mississippi,  with  his  own  emotional  and  imagina¬ 
tive  response,  as  in  this  account  of  a  forest  along  the  Sanga¬ 
mon  River:  “The  Sangamon  bottom  has  a  soil  of  amazing 
fertility,  and  rears  from  its  deep,  black  mould  a  forest  of 
enormous  sycamores;  huge,  overgrown,  unshapely  masses, 
their  venerable  limbs  streaming  with  moss.  When  the  travel¬ 
ler  enters  the  depths  of  those  dark  old  woods,  a  cold  chill 
runs  over  his  frame,  and  he  feels  as  if  he  were  entering  a 
sepulchre’’  (I.  320).  ^  Like  William  Cullen  Bryant’s  “The 
Prairies,”  The  Far  West  reveals  that  reacting  to  the  Illinois 
frontier  was  an  aspect  of  the  Romantic  Movement. 

Flagg’s  self-consciously  literary  purpose  was  unusual 
among  frontier  travelers.  Most  authors  were  more  interested 
in  vividly  and  accurately  reporting  what  they  encountered 
than  in  displaying  their  sensibility.  William  Oliver’s  Eight 
Months  in  Illinois  (1843)  presents  a  fine  contrast  to  The  Far 
West.  The  author  had  a  very  different  purpose;  to  describe 
his  journey  to  Illinois  and  the  distinctive  characteristics  of 
the  new  state  for  his  English  countrymen.  His  slim  book  is, 
then,  a  combination  travelogue  and  emigrant’s  guide.  Ac¬ 
cordingly,  his  writing  is  often  vivid,  as  when  he  describes 
the  red  flame  and  roar  of  a  prairie  fire  at  night  or  the  joking 
and  scramble  of  a  husking  frolic,  but  it  is  never  self-indul¬ 
gent.  He  strove  to  reflect  both  the  positive  and  negative 
aspects  of  the  Illinois  frontier,  and  perhaps  no  visitor  pro¬ 
vided  a  more  thorough,  accurate  account  of  that  distinctive 
landscape  feature,  the  prairies.  Oliver’s  precise,  clearly  fo¬ 
cused  prose  suggests  that  he  tried  to  avoid  misleading  his 
readers  about  a  state  which,  since  its  origin  in  1818,  had 
been  the  subject  of  many  conflicting  reports. 

The  best  accounts  by  settlers  are  more  complex.  They 
describe  the  process  of  blending  into  the  frontier,  a  far  more 
challenging  endeavor  than  traveling  through  it,  and  with  a 
greater  impact  on  the  individual.  Portrayal  of  the  self  in 
process  makes  them  closely  akin  to  the  autobiography.  But 
the  author  of  a  settler’s  account  is  a  surrogate  for  his  readers, 
going  forth  along  into  the  wilderness  to  meet  the  challenges 
of  an  uncivilized  world  and  to  establish  a  home  there — a 
symbolic  action.  The  book  itself  is  a  report  from  one  who 
now  possesses  the  frontier,  mentally,  and  who  brings  it  back 
for  his  countrymen — a  cultural  hero. 

Illinois  has  two  outstanding  settlers’  accounts  by  wom¬ 
en:  Rebecca  Burlend’s  A  True  Picture  of  Emigration  (1848) 
and  Eliza  Famham’s  Life  in  Prairie  Land  (1846).  The  first 
is  notable  chiefly  because  the  author  was  a  poor,  uneducated 
emigrant  from  Yorkshire  who  vividly  reported  her  trials  and 
anxieties.  Her  family’s  arrival  in  Illinois  was  a  terrifying 
rite  of  passage,  marking  their  new  identities  as  pioneers — 


emigrants  alone  in  the  wilderness.  On  a  cold  November 
night  they  were  deposited  on  a  desolate  riverbank  in  western 
Illinois,  and  no  one  came;  “My  husband  and  I  looked  at 
each  other  till  we  burst  into  tears,  and  our  children,  observing 
our  disquietude,  began  to  cry  bitterly.  Is  this  America, 
thought  I.  .  .”  (p.  18).  The  dream  had  encountered  the  reality. 
Burlend’s  perseverance  in  spite  of  danger,  privation,  and 
suffering  lends  her  a  heroic  stature  indeed,  and  her  book  is 
a  virtual  case  study  about  the  making  of  Americans  on  the 
frontier.  It  was  evidently  dictated  to  her  son,  a  schoolteacher 
and  author. 

Eliza  Famham  came  to  Illinois  from  New  York  in  1835, 
stayed  for  five  years,  and  then  left  to  establish  a  career  as 
author  and  reformer.  Life  in  Prairie  Land  offers  a  complex 
portrait  of  the  Illinois  wilderness — as  enjoyable  and  frustrat¬ 
ing,  beautiful  and  ugly,  beneficent  and  threatening,  an 
Edenic  landscape  that  could  delight  and  destroy.  No  other 
early  Midwestern  writer  developed  such  a  probing  vision 
of  man’s  interaction  with  the  natural  environment.  And  no 
other  Illinois  author  so  joyfully  engaged  herself  with  the 
prairie  wilderness  or  so  explicitly  portrayed  it  as  a  source 
of  spiritual  renewal.  She  was  influenced  by  Transcenden¬ 
talism.  To  Famham,  the  West  was  a  gigantic  Walden,  an 
unspoiled  natural  area  conducive  to  the  spiritual  emancipa¬ 
tion  of  those  who  withdrew  from  established  society  to  settle 
there.  Her  book  closes  with  a  vision  of  the  future,  in  which 
the  self-governing  residents  of  “prairie  land”  have  built  a 
great  society,  “free  from  want,  from  oppression,  from  ignor¬ 
ance,  from  fear”  (p.  408).  The  liberating  prairie  landscape 
would,  then,  eventually  be  the  home  of  “a  free  brotherhood, 
united  as  to  all  the  great  purposes  of  life”  (p.  408).  Eliza 
Famham  was  an  Illinois  prophet  of  the  American  Dream. 

But  the  finest  account  by  an  Illinois  settler  is  Johr 
Regan’s  Emigrant’ s  Guide  to  the  Western  States  of  Americc 
(1852),  written  by  a  Scottish  emigrant  who  eventually  be¬ 
came  a  small-town  newspaperman.  Regan  includes  severa 
chapters  devoted  to  practical  concerns,  but  the  book  center; 
around  his  own  experiences  in  western  Illinois.  He  create; 
detailed  descriptions  of  the  landscape,  vivid  characte: 
sketches  (reflecting  frontier  dialects),  and  well-constmctec 
episodes,  all  related  through  his  delightful  self-portrait  o 
the  author-as-immigrant.  He  builds  a  home,  farms  his  land 
joins  a  rural  community,  learns  to  drive  a  trade,  studies  tht 
people  around  him,  and — as  Crevecoeur  says  in  defininj 
an  American — leaves  his  Old  World  prejudices  and  manner, 
behind  and  readily  accepts  new  ones  from  his  new  environ 
ment.  The  theme  of  The  Emigrant's  Guide  is  the  Americani 
zation  of  John  Regan. 

Indeed,  Regan  understood  the  myth-making  functioi 
of  literature,  and  so  he  presents  himself  as  a  representativi 
Old  World  emigrant  who  braves  the  wilderness,  blends  int« 
frontier  society,  and  then  returns  to  tell  his  countrymen  tha 
he  is  an  American;  “America  is  the  land  of  my  deliberati 
choice.  I  am  not  satisfied  to  remain  here  [in  Scotland] 
neither  can  any  man  be  w  ho  has  spent  live  years  on  Americai 
soil”  (p.  397).  And  he  advises  "all  who  feel  themselve 
pinched  and  straightened  in  this  Old  World"  to  follow  hin 
(p.vii).  The  Emigrant’s  Guide  reflects  the  cultural  myth  o 


e  West  as  a  paradise  of  opportunity,  a  regional  version  of 
e  myth  of  America  as  a  New  World,  a  place  of  new 
ginnings.  And  the  book  is  also  mythic  in  the  sense  that 
jgan’s  personal  experience  was  the  experience  of 
ausands  who  came  and  stayed.  He  reflected  a  repeatable 
ttem.  It  would  be  hard  to  find  another  book  that  so  clearly 
mbolizes  the  function  of  all  literature;  to  interpret  the 
)rld  in  order  to  help  people  make  a  home  in  it. 

SPEECHES 

The  era  of  new  beginnings  for  immigrants  like  Regan 
IS  the  twilight  of  Indian  culture  in  Illinois.  The  last  of  the 
1  men  were  forced  out  during  the  Black  Hawk  War  of 
32,  so  it  is  not  surprising  that  very  little  Indian  literature 
rvives  and  that  virtually  all  of  it  was  provoked  by  confron- 
ion  with  the  advancing  whites.  In  fact,  the  Indian  literature 
Illinois  is  simply  what  white  men  translated  and  preserved, 
it  is  understandable  that  the  formal  speech  delivered  to 
lites  is  the  main  surviving  Indian  literary  form.  At  the 
Tie  time,  no  talent  was  more  highly  regarded  by  the  red 
:n  than  oratorical  ability,  for  a  leader  had  to  persuade  the 
DC  to  follow  him.  So  Gomo,  Black  Hawk,  Keokuk,  and 
lers  drew  upon  a  rich  oratorical  tradition  as  they  contested 
rbally  with  the  white  intruders. 

The  Indians  in  Illinois,  as  elsewhere,  were  caught 
tween  old  values  and  new  demands.  A  fine  speech  by 
:  Potawatomi  chief,  Metea,  delivered  at  Chicago  in 
21 ,  poignantly  depicts  their  predicament:  “A  long  time 
s  passed  since  we  first  came  upon  our  lands;  and  our 
ople  [ancestors]  have  all  sunk  into  their  graves.  They 
d  sense  [wisdom].  We  are  all  young  and  foolish,  and 
not  wish  to  do  anything  that  they  would  not  approve, 
:re  they  living.  We  are  fearful  we  shall  offend  their 
irits  if  we  sell  our  lands,  and  we  are  fearful  we  shall 
'end  you  if  we  do  not  sell  them.  This  has  caused  us 
;at  perplexity  of  thought.  .  .”  (p.  341).  Attuned  to  the 
ditions  of  a  vanishing  Indian  culture,  and  confronted  by 
emerging  but  incomprehensible  white  one,  the  red  men 
re  culturally  displaced  even  before  they  were  officially 
possessed. 

The  only  significant  Indian  author  is  Black  Hawk,  the 
uk  war  chief.  Several  of  his  speeches  survive,  including 
lasterful  expression  of  Indian  sensibility  delivered  to  Gen¬ 
ii  Joseph  M.  Street  at  the  close  of  the  Black  Hawk  War. 
IS  powerful  reconstruction  of  his  recent  experience  and 
symbolic  portrayal  of  Sauk  reaction  to  the  advancing 
nericans.  Black  Hawk  presents  the  past  not  as  historical 
:ord  but  as  personal  myth:  the  noble  Sauks,  despised 
white  men  and  slowly  dispossessed,  turned  to  their 
efathers  for  guidance;  advised  to  resist.  Black  Hawk 
1  the  Sauks  to  war,  but  he  suffered  defeat  and  now 
)urns  the  fate  of  his  people: 

We  called  a  great  council  and  built  a  great 

fire.  The  spirits  of  our  fathers  rose  and  told 

us  to  avenge  our  wrongs  or  die.  We  raised  the 


war  cry  and  dug  up  the  tomahawk.  Our  knives 
were  ready,  and  Black  Hawk’s  heart  swelled 
in  his  chest  as  he  led  his  braves  to  war.  He  is 
content.  He  will  go  to  the  world  of  the  spirits 
contented.  He  has  done  what  he  had  to  do. 

His  father  will  meet  him  and  praise  him.  Black 
Hawk  is  a  true  Indian.  .  .  .He  cares  about  his 
people  and  the  Indians.  They  will  suffer.  He 
pities  their  fate.  (p.  1 182) 

The  deepest  meaning  of  this  superb  speech  is  that  Black 
Hawk  saved  himself,  retained  his  identity  as  an  Indian, 
because  he  acted — although  in  a  hopeless  cause.  The  address 
itself  is  a  symbolic  expression  of  his  identity,  as  well  as  a 
profound  statement  about  freedom  and  fate.  Spoken  at  a 
time  when  President  Jackson  had  made  Indian  removal  a 
national  policy,  the  speech  is  also  a  condemnation  of  the 
dishonesty  and  barbarity  of  the  whites,  who  cheated,  dispos¬ 
sessed,  and  killed  the  Indians  in  order  to  replace  savagery 
with  civilization  in  the  West. 

Other  frontier  leaders  were  just  as  dependent  upon 
oratorical  ability,  at  a  time  when  the  American  public  had 
an  insatiable  appetite  for  speeches.  Peter  Cartwright,  for 
example  attracted  huge  crowds  to  his  camp  meetings  because 
he  was  a  legendary  preacher,  as  well  as  a  colorful  personal¬ 
ity.  Unfortunately,  none  of  his  thousands  of  sermons  sur¬ 
vive.  And  Stephen  Douglas  was  a  renowned  speaker,  a 
worthy  opponent  to  Lincoln  in  the  famous  debates,  although 
his  addresses  do  not  have  significant  literary  value.  In  con¬ 
trast,  abolitionist  Owen  Lovejoy  produced  a  small  number 
of  major  speeches,  delivered  in  Congress,  which  deserve  to 
be  read  and  analyzed  as  literary  achievements.  “Human 
Beings,  Not  Property”  (1858),  “The  Fanaticism  of  the 
Democratic  Party”  ( 1 859),  and  a  few  others  are  characterized 
by  colorful  wit  and  keen  logic,  balanced  expression  and 
bold  imagery.  Widely  reprinted  in  the  newspapers,  they 
were  courageous  dramatizations  of  Lovejoy ’s  moral  vision, 
powerful  expressions  of  his  outrage,  compassion,  and  love 
of  freedom.  And  they  were  penetrating  assaults  on  the  Amer¬ 
ican  conscience,  verbal  attempts  to  dispel  slavery  from  its 
ultimate  refuge,  the  public  mind,  by  exposing  it  as  inimical 
to  the  Constitution,  the  will  of  God,  and  human  decency. 
In  “The  Barbarism  of  Slavery”  (1860),  he  explicitly  pre¬ 
sented  himself  as  a  spiritual  emancipator,  which  was  the 
symbolic  role  that  he  assumed  in  his  major  Congressional 
speeches:  “Long  enough  has  the  nation  crouched  and  cow¬ 
ered  in  the  presence  of  this  stupendous  wrong.  Here  and 
now  I  break  the  spell,  and  disenchant  the  Republic  from  the 
incantation  of  this  accursed  sorceress”  (p.7).  Lovejoy  pre¬ 
pared  the  public  for  the  role  that  Lincoln  would  soon  play. 
He  was  a  prophet  of  American  freedom. 

Of  course,  Lincoln  overshadows  all  other  speechmakers 
of  his  time.  His  “Gettysburg  Address”  (1863)  and  “Second 
Inaugural  Address”  (1865)  are  among  the  great  documents 
of  our  culture.  In  American  literature  anthologies  he  is  com¬ 
monly  the  first  Midwestern  author,  and  the  only  nineteenth- 
century  Illinois  author,  who  is  included.  The  “Gettysburg 
Address”  is  also  the  most  frequently  read,  studied,  and 


£ 

CJ1 


o 


<o 

CJ1 


3 


memorized  Ameriean  speech.  It  has  prolundity  that  reaches 
to  the  deepest  intellectual  and  emotional  levels  of  the  occa¬ 
sion,  as  it  places  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  in  the  context  of 
America’s  sacred  purpose,  to  which  the  listeners  are  urged 
to  dedicate  themselves,  even  as  Lincoln  re-dedicates  the 
entire  country  to  that  purpose  with  his  address.  The  nation’s 
birth,  the  recent  war  deaths,  and  the  need  for  spiritual  rebirth 
form  the  controlling  metaphor:  birth,  death,  and  rebirth. 
That  famous  speech  is  the  apex  of  Lincoln’s  literary 
craftsmanship,  but  many  of  his  other  addresses  are  also  very 
well  constructed.  His  much  less  well-known  “Annual  Mes¬ 
sage  to  Congress”  in  1862  calls  for  spiritual  emancipation 
(of  the  kind  that  Lovejoy  promoted)  as  the  necessary  precon¬ 
dition  to  freeing  the  slaves  and  assuring  freedom  to  the  free: 
“The  dogmas  of  the  quiet  past  are  inadequate  to  the  stormy 
present.  The  occasion  is  piled  high  with  difficulty,  and  we 
must  rise  with  the  oceasion.  As  our  case  is  new,  so  we  must 
think  anew,  and  act  anew.  We  must  disenthrall  ourselves, 
and  then  we  shall  save  our  country”  (Works,  V,  537).  In 
the  light  of  what  has  been  said  about  the  American  Dream 
and  the  concern  with  spiritual  renewal  or  rebirth  in  Illinois 
nonfiction,  the  “Gettysburg  Address,”  the  1862  “Message 
to  Congress,”  and  other  Lincoln  speeches  clearly  relate  to 
the  literary  tradition  of  his  home  state. 

After  the  Civil  War,  the  focus  of  much  Illinois  oratory, 
and  other  nonfiction,  shifted  from  the  present  to  the  past — to 
the  war,  to  Lincoln,  to  the  pioneers.  Speakers  and  writers 
used  the  past  to  glorify  and  inlluence  the  present,  and  Illinois 
began  to  forge  a  new  identity.  “The  Prairie  State”  and  “The 
Land  of  Lincoln”  became  symbolic  touchstones  for  a  state 
that  gradually  recognized  it  had  a  unique  and  significant 
heritage  that  could  unify  and  inspire. 

The  most  famous  Illinois  man  of  letters  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century  was  Robert  G.  Ingersoll,  a  brilliant  expo¬ 
nent  of  religious  skepticism.  But  his  most  popular  speeches 
among  Illinoisans  celebrated  the  heroic  Civil  War  and  the 
martyred  Abraham  Lincoln.  The  first  of  these,  delivered  in 
1876,  drew  upon  Ingersoll’s  experience  as  colonel  of  an 
Illinois  cavalry  regiment,  and  it  includes  a  powerful  section 
that  was  reprinted  separately  as  “A  Vision  of  War”: 

The  past  rises  before  me  like  a  dream. 

Again  we  are  in  the  great  struggle  for  national 
life.  We  hear  the  sounds  of  preparation.  .  .  . 

We  see  [the  soldiers]  as  they  march  proudly 
away  under  flaunting  flags,  keeping  the  time  to 
the  grand,  wild  music  of  war — marching  down 
the  streets  of  the  great  cities — through  the  towns 
and  across  the  prairies — down  to  the  fields  of 
glory.  .  .  . 

We  go  with  them,  one  and  all.  We  are  by 
their  side  on  all  the  gory  fields — in  all  the  hos¬ 
pitals  of  pain — on  all  the  weary  marches.  We 
stand  guard  with  them  in  the  wild  storm  and 
under  the  quiet  stars.  We  are  with  them  in 
ravines  running  with  blood.  .  . 

The  past  rises  before  us.  We  hear  the  roar 
and  shriek  of  the  bursting  shell.  The  broken 


fetters  fall.  .  .  .Instead  of  slaves  we  see  men 
and  women  and  children.  The  wand  of  progress  ; 
touches  the  auction-block,  the  slave-pen,  the 
whipping-post,  and  we  see  homes  and  firesides 
and  schoolhouses  and  books,  and  where  all  was 
want  and  crime  and  cruelty  and  fear,  we  see  the 
faces  of  the  free.  (Works,  IX,  167-70) 

“A  Vision  of  War”  was  probably  the  most  widely  read 
piece  of  American  oratory  in  the  later  nineteenth  century. 
It  vividly  expresses  the  struggle-and-redemption  motif  that 
is  part  of  Illinois  (and  American)  mythology.  Indeed,  it 
makes  listeners  and  readers  psychological  participants  in 
that  action.  Similarly,  in  his  1894  lecture  on  Lincoln,  Inger¬ 
soll  portrays  the  great  Civil  War  president  as  the  Redeemer, 
the  mythic  Emancipator,  the  martyred  Savior:  “And  then 
the  horror  came.  Night  fell  on  noon.  The  Savior  of  the 
Republic,  the  breaker  of  chains,  the  liberator  of  millions, 
he  who  had  ‘assured  freedom  to  the  free,  was  dead.  .  Tht 
memory  of  Lincoln  is  the  strongest,  tenderest  tie  that  bind* 
all  hearts  together  now,  and  holds  all  States  beneath  tht 
Nation’s  flag  (Works,  III,  163).  Naturally,  the  burial  o' 
Lincoln  the  Redeemer,  democracy's  mythic  hero,  in  hi: 
home  town  made  the  soil  of  Illinois  sacred  ground.  Tht 
prairie  and  the  American  Dream  were  united  forever. 

4.  AUTOBIOGRAPHIES,  .MEMOIRS,  AND  DIARIES 

The  autobiography  is  inherently  retrospective,  so  it 
importance  in  Illinois  increased  as  the  nineteenth  centur^ 
continued.  It  appears  to  be  one  of  the  least  complicatei 
literary  forms,  if  only  because  the  writer  has  firm  contre 
of  material  with  a  predetermined  arrangement,  but  as  recer 
scholarship  has  demonstrated,  the  autobiography  is  a  corr 
plex  kind  of  nonfiction.  It  is  a  reconstruction  of  the  self  a 
a  literary  artifact,  a  life-in-time  that  has  greater  unity ,  sharpt 
focus,  and  clearer  meaning  than  the  subject-author  s  actui 
experience.  A  good  autobiography  is.  in  fact,  a  kind  ( 
personal  myth,  an  essential  form  into  v\  hich  the  author  cast 
his  own  experience  in  order  to  make  it  meaningful.  It 
grounded  in  the  tactual,  but  it  is  also  illusion,  due  to  th 
presentation  of  some  aspects  and  the  withholding  of  other 
An  autobiography  is,  inescapably,  a  justification  for  tf 
writer’s  life,  for  choices  made  and  views  held,  but  it  shoul 
also  be  the  record  of  a  quest  for  self-understanding.  Not  a 
of  them  are. 

The  earliest  Illinois  autobiography  appeared  in  183. 
It  was  not  written,  but  dictated.  The  Life  of  Black  Haw 
was  famous  in  its  own  time,  as  the  first  Indian  autobiograpf 
in  America  and  the  life  of  a  warrior  who  had  become 
symbol  of  resistance  to  national  expansion.  It  is  now 
classic  of  Midwestern  literature.  The  book  offers  a  remar 
able  self-portrait  of  a  complex  individual  who  identifu 
closely  with  the  heritage  of  his  tribe.  As  the  whites  a 
vanced.  Black  Haw  k  could  not  capitulate  to  their  deman. 
and  still  retain  his  identity  as  an  Indian.  Hence,  the  a 
tobioaraphy  is,  in  more  ways  than  one.  concerned  wii 


4 


j  preservation  of  the  self.  It  has  mythic  power,  in  a 
Itural  sense,  for  Black  Hawk’s  personal  tragedy  was 
j  experience  of  his  people.  At  a  time  when  the  red  men 
;re  being  removed,  it  made  the  Indian  perspective  a  part 
the  national  consciousness. 

Another  famous  frontier  work,  the  Autobiography  of 
ter  Cartwright  (1856),  contributed  to  the  heroic  stature 
the  author.  It  is,  in  fact,  an  extension  of  his  lifelong  role 
storyteller  about  his  frontier  experiences.  Cartwright 
lebrated  his  triumphs — over  the  devil  and  frontier  row- 
;s — and  omitted  his  failures.  The  autobiography  was, 
:n,  an  attempt  to  provide  a  factual  foundation  for  his 
blic  image  as  a  legendary  backwoods  preacher.  It  was 
0  a  final  opportunity  to  assert  the  rightness  of  his  cause, 
a  champion  of  frontier  Methodism.  Because  of  those 
srwhelming  purposes,  probably  no  autobiographer  ever 
juired  less  self-knowledge  in  the  process  of  reconstructing 
past,  but  Cartwright  did  produce  an  entertaining,  anec- 
tal  account  of  his  adventures  as  a  circuit  rider.  Because 
its  relationship  to  storytelling,  the  Autobiography  of  Peter 
rtwright  invites  appreciation  through  oral  interpretation. 

The  most  interesting  Illinois  autobiographical  works  of 
later  nineteenth  century  were  produced  by  the  most  fa- 
lus  men  associated  with  the  state  after  the  death  of  Lincoln; 
/sses  S.  Grant  and  Robert  G.  Ingersoll.  Their  ventures 
d  self-portrayal  present  a  sharp  contrast  that  reveals  the 
xibility  of  the  literary  form.  The  Personal  Memoirs  of 
S.  Grant  (1885-1886)  is  a  vast,  600-page  chronicle  of 
author’s  deeds  as  an  officer  in  the  Mexican  War  and  a 
teral  in  the  Civil  War.  It  is  anything  but  “personal.”  Grant 
ers  a  clearly  written  and  vibrantly  direct,  but  strangely 
ective  and  impersonal  portrayal  of  the  historic  events 
t  he  participated  in — a  record  for  posterity.  He  is  the 
obiographer  as  hero  and  historian,  a  maker  of  his  own 
c — a  modem  Caesar  wiring  his  Commentaries.  There  is 
le  attempt  to  portray  his  inner  life,  or  even  his  personal 
:,  as  if  only  his  public  self  was  really  important.  But  that 
lever  true. 

Ingersoll,  on  the  other  hand,  produced  a  sixty-page 
obiographical  essay,  a  lecture  entitled  “Why  I  am  an 
nostic”  (1896).  It  is  so  completely  devoted  to  his  mental 
'elopment  that  virtually  no  historical  facts  are  included — 
dates,  places,  or  named  individuals.  The  Great  Agnostic 
'ertheless  depicts  his  growth  from  early  childhood  to 
turity  as  a  completed  process,  a  model  of  man’s  successful 
iggle  to  escape  from  the  irrational,  from  ignorance,  false- 
)d,  and  fear.  He  too  is  the  autobiographer  as  hero,  but 
y  in  an  inner  sense.  He  is  a  champion  of  freedom  over 

a  man  who  transcended  the  mental  circumstances  of 
early  life  by  choosing  to  open  his  mind  and  to  reject 
Christian  myth  that  his  culture  had  pressed  upon  him. 
hy  I  am  an  Agnostic”  is  pure  personal  myth,  self-per- 
)tion  without  chronicle.  But  that  too  is  less  than  a  whole 
nan  life. 

Jane  Addams  wove  historical  deeds  and  personal  de- 
opment  into  a  superb  pattern  that  makes  Twenty  Years 
Hull-House  (1910)  one  of  the  finest  Illinois  autobiog- 
hies.  The  key  to  her  achievement  is  the  interaction  be¬ 


tween  self  and  experience.  She  reacts,  changes,  grows,  as 
she  carries  out  the  public  role  she  has  chosen.  Of  her  life 
in  1894  she  says,  “During  the  many  relief  visits  I  paid  that 
winter  in  tenement  houses  and  miserable  lodgings,  I  was 
constantly  shadowed  by  a  certain  sense  of  shame  that  I 
should  be  comfortable  in  the  midst  of  such  distress.  This 
resulted  at  times  in  a  curious  reaction  against  all  the  edu¬ 
cational  and  philanthropic  activities  in  which  I  had  been 
engaged.  In  the  face  of  such  desperate  hunger  and  need, 
these  could  not  but  seem  futile  and  superficial”  (p.259). 
Her  work  influenced  her  self,  which  in  turn  gave  new 
insight  and  direction  to  her  work.  It  is  not  surprising  that 
she  wanted  Hull  House  to  be  “human  and  spontaneous” 
(p.308) — open  to  experience.  That’s  the  way  she  was, 
and  Twenty  Years  at  Hull-House  dramatizes  the  develop¬ 
ment  of  her  unique  consciousness. 

The  early  twentieth  century  also  witnessed  the  publica¬ 
tion  of  two  remarkable  memoirs  about  the  Civil  War  era; 
Francis  Grierson’s  The  Valley  of  Shadows  (1909)  and  Bob 
Burdette’s  The  Drums  of  the  47th  (1914).  The  latter  is  an 
uneven  but  powerful  meditation  on  the  author’s  Civil  War 
years,  a  highly  subjective,  impressionistic  account  that  con¬ 
veys  the  emotional  experience  of  the  average  soldier  better 
than  any  other  Illinois  document.  Grierson’s  book  is  also 
very  uneven,  but  his  first  twelve  chapters  form  a  superb 
narrative,  a  haunting  reflection  of  the  Lincoln  country  and 
a  stirring  depiction  of  Underground  Railroad  activities  dur¬ 
ing  the  1850s.  A  memoir  infused  with  unremembered  histor¬ 
ical  material  and  presented  through  fictional  techniques,  that 
first  great  section  of  the  book  is  a  literary  hybrid  that  extends 
well  beyond  the  limits  of  autobiographieal  writing.  Grierson 
combines  many  aspects  of  Illinois  mythology:  prairie  and 
dream,  Lincoln  and  freedom,  struggle  and  redemption — 
symbols  and  motifs  that  are  later  combined  in  Sandburg’s 
Lincoln  biography.  But  he  also  depicts  the  Lincoln  country 
as  a  mythic  Garden,  inhabited  by  heroic  pioneers  who  are 
swept  into  the  valley  of  shadows,  the  eoming  national  con¬ 
flict.  The  climactic  chapter  (twelve)  centers  around  a  camp 
meeting,  which  symbolizes  the  American  need  for  spiritual 
renewal.  In  short,  the  opening  narrative  presents  the  Illinois 
frontier  as  transfigured  by  the  post-Civil  War  American 
mind  and  by  Grierson’s  mystical-symbolic  interpretation  of 
his  early  memories.  That  section  of  The  Valley  of  Shadows 
is  a  unique  achievement  of  uncommon  power  and  symbolic 
depth — an  Illinois  masterpiece. 

Perhaps  the  most  important,  most  successfully  handled 
theme  in  twentieth  century  Illinois  autobiography  is  the  de¬ 
velopment  of  the  artist.  Two  works  by  famous  architects, 
Louis  Sullivan’s  The  Autobiography  of  an  Idea  (1924)  and 
Frank  Lloyd  Wright’s  An  Autobiography  (1932),  are  among 
the  finest  expressions  of  that  theme.  Both  depict  the  struggle 
of  the  artist  to  realize  and  release  his  artistic  vision — a  vari¬ 
ation  of  the  struggle  and  dream  motifs  that  are  commonly 
found  together  in  Illinois  literature,  in  works  as  different  as 
Theodore  Dreiser’s  Sister  Carrie  (1900),  Carl  Sandburg’s 
The  People,  Yes  ( 1936),  and  Lorraine  Hansberry’s  A  Raisin 
in  the  Sun  (1959).  Both  architects  were  social  idealists. 
They  were  not  just  expressing  themselves  through  building 


1 


SS 

CJl 


CO 


rs 

m 


(O 

CJl 


( 


Sc 

oo 

orz 

soS 
>  m 
-OZ 
c— I 

co5 


; 


5 


design;  they  were  symbolizing  their  respeetive  visions  of  a 
better  society. 

For  Sullivan,  artistic  development  was  the  growth  of 
an  idea:  that  the  expression  of  man’s  latent  powers,  his  inner 
self,  was  the  key  to  cultural  greatness.  He  believed  that  the 
idea  would  foster  progress  toward  “the  Democratic  Vista” 
(p.  279)  of  the  future— a  concept  that  he  borrowed  from 
Walt  Whitman.  For  Wright,  artistic  development  was  in¬ 
separable  from  “the  freedom  to  seek — to  be — to  believe — 
and  to  love  the  beautiful  as  our  souls  conceive  it”  (rev.  ed., 
p.  377),  and  it  would  culminate  in  “a  city  for  Democracy: 
the  Usonian  city  that  is  nowhere  yet  everywhere”  (p.  560). 
Their  autobiographies  are  successful  chiefly  because  the 
formation  and  expression  of  the  unique  self  is  so  obviously 
the  eentral  focus  and  organizing  principle  in  both  of  them. 
Among  the  Illinois  literary  figures  who  expressed  the  same 
theme,  Floyd  Dell,  Harriet  Monroe,  and  Ben  Hecht  produced 
the  finest  works:  Homecoming  ( 1 933),  A  Poet' s  Life  (1938), 
and  A  Child  of  the  Century  (1954). 

Hecht’s  autobiography  is  also  the  best  of  several  by 
Chicago  journalists.  It  includes  a  superb  reconstruction  of 
his  interaction  with  the  city:  “I  have  lived  in  other  cities  but 
been  inside  only  one.  I  knew  Chicago’s  thirty-two  feet  of 
intestines.  Only  newspapermen  ever  achieve  this.  .  .”  (p. 
194).  His  work  as  a  reporter  contributed  to  his  artistic  con¬ 
sciousness  and  was  a  direct  source  for  some  of  his  stories, 
plays,  and  films.  And  it  would  be  hard  to  find  an  autobiog¬ 
raphy  that  more  clearly  reveals  the  author’s  dual  perspective 
on  the  self  as  both  a  unique  life-in-process  and  a  represen¬ 
tative  life  of  his  era,  a  composite  of  still-growing  individual 
consciousness  and  substantial  personal  history,  an  eternal 
present  and  a  past.  Both  perspectives  are  reflected  in  the 
book’s  title,  A  Child  of  the  Century. 

Often  considered  a  form  of  autobiography,  the  diary 
is  nevertheless  a  distinctive  literary  form,  characterized  by 
vividness  and  a  shifting,  developing  perspective.  Both  qual¬ 
ities  are  due  to  the  unique  way  in  which  diaries  are  written: 
by  continual  periodic  production.  The  term  “journal”  is  com¬ 
monly  used  as  a  synonym  for  “diary,”  although  it  sometimes 
designates  a  work  of  persistent  inner  focus,  such  as  the 
Journal  (1774)  of  John  Woolman. 

Few  Illinois  diaries  have  any  value  as  literary  art.  Mor¬ 
ris  Birkbeck’s  Notes  on  a  Journey  in  America  is  a  travel 
diary,  in  which  the  author  presents  and  analyzes  the  charac¬ 
teristics  of  the  unfamiliar  land  that  he  immigrated  to  in  1817. 
Because  he  depicted  his  journey  as  a  movement  through 
“Old  America”  to  “a  new  country”  (the  frontier),  he  cap¬ 
tured  the  westering  spirit,  the  desire  for  new  beginnings, 
that  characterized  post-Revolutionary  America.  Because 
he  viewed  his  journey  as  a  search  for  a  suitable  location 
to  establish  his  community — metaphorically  a  search  for 
a  better  society — his  diary  articulates  the  American  Dream 
and  then  plants  it  firmly  on  Illinois  soil — a  symbolic  ac¬ 
tion,  especially  since  statehood  was  achieved  right  after 
the  book  was  published. 

A  very  different  diary  of  literary  significance  was  writ¬ 
ten  by  Maud  Rittenhouse  Mayne  of  Cairo  during  the  late 
nineteenth  century.  It  was  published  as  Maud  ( 1939),  edited 


by  her  son-in-law,  Richard  Lee  Strout,  and  became  a  bestseL 
ler.  It  is  a  diary  of  romance  and  courtship.  The  author  began 
it  in  1876,  when  she  was  twelve,  because  she  tell  so  deepb 
in  love  that  she  had  to  express  the  tension,  the  disequilib 
rium,  that  resulted.  Unfortunately,  she  burned  that  first  vol 
ume  when  she  was  seventeen — after  her  beau  proved  faith 
less.  But  she  started  the  diary  again  during  that  year,  1881 
and  continued  it  until  the  eve  of  her  marriage  in  1895.  Tha 
is  Maud:  a  lively,  fascinating  account  of  a  young  woman’ 
struggle  to  find  happiness  in  love  and,  in  the  process,  tc 
find  herself.  No  anxieties  are  too  upsetting  for  her  to  record 
Indeed,  the  diary  was  obviously  a  means  of  coping:  “Oh 
Journal,  it  is  a  ghastly  confession  to  make,  here  in  my  roon 
with  the  curtains  down,  the  door  tight  shut  and  our  twe 
selves  alone.  1  believe  I  am  an  old  maid.  I  found  a  whit' 
hair  this  morning;  and  I  haven’t  had  either  a  love-letter  o 
a  gentleman-caller  in  two  weeks — 1  mean  one  with  an; 
paraded  ‘intentions.’  Isn’t  it  funny  to  think  that  ‘Maudie. 
with  all  her  ‘theories’  and  impulses  and  eternal  youthfulness 
is  turning  out  a  genuine,  truly  old  maid”  (p.  567).  Seldor 
is  a  reader  of  nonfiction  swept  so  irresistibly  into  the  worf 
of  a  self  in  process.  And  seldom  is  the  artistic  purpose  c 
a  diary  so  apparent:  to  help  the  author  resolve  her  anxieties 
see  herself  clearly,  and  give  shape  to  her  life. 

5.  BIOGRAPHIES  AND  HISTORIES 

A  biography,  too,  is  not  simply  a  factual  account  c 
some  person’s  life.  It  is  a  work  of  art,  reconstructing 
human  life  so  as  to  present  aesthetic  truth  as  well  as  historici 
reality.  And  it  is  often  psychologically  probing.  Especiall 
in  recent  decades,  the  great  biographies  have  not  simpi 
presented  their  subjects  as  models  of  how  people  ought  t 
live  but  as  individuals  with  inner  tensions,  struggling  t 
give  shape  and  meaning  to  their  lives.  Lincoln  biographt 
Stephen  B.  Oates  has  said  that  the  best  biographies  “attem) 
to  simulate  a  human  life  through  the  magic  of  languagt 
through  character  development  and  the  depiction  ot  interpe 
sonal  relationships,  through  graphic  scenes,  the  telling  qu( 
tation,  the  revealing  detail,  the  power  of  suggestion,  an 
dramatic  narrative  sw'eep.  .  .  . ”'  As  this  suggests,  biof 
raphers  use  fictional  techniques,  and  one  of  the  livelie 
questions  in  biographical  study  concerns  the  impact  of  tho; 
techniques  on  factuality. 

For  the  past  century  in  Illinois  the  biographical  ente 
prise  has  been  dominated  by  Lincoln  studies.  No  other  Arne 
ican  has  been  the  subject  of  so  many  biographies — or  ; 
many  great  biographies.  The  first  monumental  achieveme 
was  Hay  and  Nicolay’s  massive  Abraham  Lincoln:  A  Hi 
tor}',  which  started  appearing  serially  in  1886.  It  was  wc 
researched  but  unfocused  and  uncritical.  The  most  rece 
great  work  is  Oates’s  with  Malice  Toward  None:  The  Li 
of  Abraham  Lincoln  ( 1 977),  a  probing,  perceptive,  dramati 
and  highly  readable  one-volume  account.  It  has  taken  mo 
of  a  century  to  thoroughly  disentangle  the  historical  Linco 
from  the  mythic  Man  of  the  People,  the  transcendent  Arne 
ican  hero  that  Sandburg  celebrated  so  lovingly  in  his  lot 


6 


onicle  of  Lincoln’s  prairie  years  and  war  years. 

The  important  thing  to  remember  is  that  even  though 
biographies  by  Albert  J.  Beveridge,  James  G.  Randall, 
ijamin  P.  Thomas,  and  Stephen  B.  Oates  are  now  the 
St  highly  regarded  lives  of  Lincoln,  they  do  not  com- 
tely  supersede  many  others.  If  biographies  are  indeed 
rks  of  literary  art,  as  well  as  historical  studies,  then  they 
sess  unique  qualities  that  are  not  diminished  with  the 
'ance  of  knowledge.  Thus,  Herndon’s  Lincoln  (1889)  is 
I  a  fine  work,  an  absorbing  and  staunchly  anti-romantic, 
ometimes  unreliable  portrait,  and  Sandburg’s  mammoth 
ievement  is  still  a  superb,  if  mythic  and  impressionistic 
trayal  of  our  greatest  president  and  the  war  that  was  his 
tiny.  Factual  and  interpretive  errors  are  literary  defects, 
each  fine  biography  also  has  creative  strengths. 

Outside  of  Lincoln  studies,  the  most  ambitious  and 
hly  praised  Illinois  biography  is  John  Bartlow  Martin’s 
10-page  life  of  Adlai  E.  Stevenson.  Enormously  detailed, 
of  quoted  documents,  and  divided  between  Stevenson’s 
lois  years  and  his  period  of  Cold  War  leadership,  the 
graphy  reflects  the  approach  of  Sandburg’s  Lincoln, 
lus  the  mythic  perception  and  lyrical  prose.  But  as  with 
:  earlier  achievement,  Martin’s  work  lacks  a  probing 
irpretation  of  Stevenson’s  inner  life.  It  is  a  superb  chroni- 
without  sufficient  insight  into  the  greatest  Illinoisan  of 
century . 

Biographies  are  widely  regarded  as  literary  art,  but 
er  historical  writing  is  not.  This  was  not  always  so. 
tory  was  considered  a  kind  of  literature  from  ancient 
es  until  the  nineteenth  century,  when  Romantic  writers 
Jed  the  foundation  of  literary  art  from  rhetoric  to  poetics, 
/ing  fact-based  works  outside  the  pale  of  imaginative 
h  and  beyond  the  limits  of  artistic  beauty.  Later  in  the 
tury,  the  rise  of  “scientific  history’’  widened  that  split, 
the  perception  of  history  as  an  academic  field,  a  social 
;nce,  in  the  twentieth  century  confirmed  the  separation 
ween  those  two  pursuits.  In  reality,  of  course,  the  histo- 
1  is  both  a  social  scientist  and  an  artist,  and  in  recent 
rs  there  has  been  a  renewal  of  interest  in  history  as 
rature.  The  “Historical  Works”  section  of  the  nonfiction 
liography  in  this  book  lists  various  historical  studies  as 
imary  sources”  precisely  because  they  are  works  of  liter- 
art,  themselves  open  to  study. 

Historical  writing  of  literary  quality  can  be  read  with 
asure  even  by  those  who  lack  specialized  knowledge.  It 
lot  an  argument;  it  is  primarily  a  reconstruction  of  the 
t.  Hence,  the  key  element  of  history-as-literature  is  nar- 
ve,  a  kind  of  fact-based  fiction  designed  to  produce  a 
tain  conceptual  experience  in  the  reader.  The  selection 
1  arrangement  of  details  are  circum.scribed  by  the  available 
dence  and  the  historian’s  focus,  but,  nevertheless,  those 
)  functions  are  interpretive.  They  are  creative.  They  are 
ets  of  the  historian’s  verbal  artifact,  as  are  the  insights 
vided  directly  through  commentary.  Thus,  historical 
ting  of  literary  quality  has  artistic  unity. 

The  earliest  notable  Illinois  narratives  deal  with  acts 
violence;  Edward  Beecher’s  Narrative  of  Riots  at  Alton 
38),  Juliette  Kinzie’s  Narrative  of  the  Massacre  at 


Chicago  ( 1844),  and  Edward  Bonney’s  The  Banditti  of  the 
Prairies  (1856).  Each  is  not  merely  a  report  of  the  events 
related  to  a  particular  act  of  violence  but  a  creative  work 
composed  of  a  plot  structure,  causal  relationships,  thema¬ 
tic  emphasis,  etc.  Beecher’s  book  is  the  best  writen.  He 
vividly  reconstructs  the  Alton  tragedy  and  then  views  it  as 
symptomatic  of  a  crisis  in  American  society,  caused  by  the 
failure  of  people  to  recognize  that  slavery  is  opposed  to  “the 
designs  of  God,  and  [to]  the  whole  tide  and  current  of  his 
providence  in  the  present  age”  (p.  115).  Like  Lincoln, 
Beecher  discerned  a  divine  pattern  in  the  unfolding  of  Amer¬ 
ican  history,  and  as  his  Narrative  reveals,  he  regarded  the 
heroic  abolitionist  as  a  model  of  what  was  needed  in  the 
American  people:  adherence  to  God’s  will  through  answer¬ 
ing  dedication  to  the  inalienable  rights  of  all  individuals. 
Lovejoy’s  murder  was,  then,  a  tragic  but  crucial  scene  in  a 
vast  providential  drama,  and  it  revealed  the  need  for  national 
redemption — which  was  slowly,  inexorably  coming.'* 

Some  outstanding  later  narratives  also  center  around 
violence:  Paul  M.  Angle’s  Bloody  Williamson  (1952), 
Samuel  W.  Taylor’s  Nightfall  at  Nauvoo  (1971),  and  Cecil 
Eby’s  “That  Disgraceful  Affair" :  The  Black  Hawk  War 
(1973).  Angle,  a  noted  Lincoln  scholar,  regarded  Bloody 
Williamson  as  his  finest  work.  It  is  a  superb  account  of  the 
Herrin  Massacre,  the  Ku  Klux  Klan  crusade,  the  Birger 
Shelton  gang  war,  and  other  aspects  of  the  long  heritage  of 
lawlessness  in  Williamson  County  in  southern  Illinois.  The 
book  opens  with  a  chilling  reconstruction  of  the  1922  mas¬ 
sacre,  and  then  it  moves  back  and  forth  between  episodes 
of  violence  and  the  often  inadequate  response  of  the  justice 
system.  The  result  is  a  stunning  examination  of  the  frailty 
of  social  restraints.  Taylor  sometimes  employed  fictional 
techniques — including  imaginatively  reconstructed  scenes 
— to  depict  the  rise  and  fall  of  Nauvoo,  but  his  insightful 
account  respected  the  essential  facts,  relied  heavily  on  his¬ 
torical  documents,  and  raised  legitimate  questions  about 
Joseph  Smith  that  Mormon  scholarship  still  has  not  dealt 
with.  As  a  best-seller  that  combines  the  truth  of  history  and 
the  truth  of  art — although  with  greater  imaginative  latitude 
than  most  historians  would  allow  themselves — Nightfall  at 
Nauvoo  deserves  critical  attention  and  classroom  discussion. 
Eby’s  revisionist  history  of  the  Black  Hawk  War  portrays 
the  whites  as  bigoted  and  bloodthirsty  aggressors  who  were 
primarily  responsible  for  that  tragedy.  Hence,  it  locates  the 
ultimate  cause  of  the  conflict  in  the  frontier  character — a 
controversial  perspective. 

Community  history  is  also  a  kind  of  narrative,  or  it 
should  be.  The  writer  has  to  analyze  a  complex  whole  and 
then  tell  a  story.  He  has  to  discover  the  components  of  the 
town,  past  and  present,  and  then  fuse  them  into  a  comprehen¬ 
sible  totality  that  stands  for,  but  is  not  equal  to,  the  heritage 
of  the  community.  A  good  town  history  is  a  story  written 
by  an  informed,  sensitive  interpreter  for  an  interested,  sym¬ 
pathetic  readership,  although  it  must  be  perfectly  intelligible 
to  others  outside  the  community  as  well. 

Despite  the  popularity  of  the  form,  there  are  few  out¬ 
standing  Illinois  community  histories.  The  finest  is  Earnest 
Elmo  Calkin’s  They  Broke  the  Prairie  ( 1937),  an  engaging 


an 


a 


c/3 


o 

m 


(O 

CJ1 


-o 

o 

m 


-< 


7 


account  of  Galesburg’s  first  100  years.  Much  of  the  focus 
is  on  Knox  College,  which,  like  the  town,  was  founded  as 
an  act  of  faith  by  George  Washington  Gale  and  his  as¬ 
sociates.  The  book  is  notable  for  its  insight  into  the  values 
that  shaped  the  community — and  clashed  in  the  commu¬ 
nity — and  for  its  vast  array  of  vivid  details  and  dramatic 
episodes.  Another  superb  achievement  is  Lincoln's  New 
Salem  (1934)  by  Benjamin  P.  Thomas.  Published  eighteen 
years  before  his  Lincoln  biography,  it  is  a  stylistic  gem,  a 
beautifully  written  account  of  the  interaction  between  that 
frontier  village  and  the  famous  Railsplitter.  Because  the 
town  had  such  a  short  history  and  such  a  famous  resident, 
Thomas  provides  little  narrative  about  New  Salem.  The 
book  is  essentially  a  blend  of  cultural  description  and  biog¬ 
raphy,  as  if  Lincoln  embodied  the  community.  And  in  a 
sense,  he  did,  for  New  Salem  was  the  cultural  context  in 
which  he  forged  his  identity. 

State  history  is  further  removed  from  the  particulars 
of  place  and  cannot  portray  with  any  detail  the  individual 
in  his  environment  or  sustain  a  truly  unified  narrative. 
Too  many  disparate  factors  must  be  covered  too  briefly. 
For  that  reason,  state  histories  are  less  successful  as  liter¬ 
ary  art  than  works  of  a  narrower  scope.  They  summarize 
rather  than  show. 

But  Thomas  Ford’s  A  History  of  Illinois  (1854)  is  ex¬ 
ceptional  precisely  because  he  covers  only  twenty-eight 
years  (1818-1846)  and  deals  largely  with  people  and  events 
that  were  part  of  his  experience  as  judge  and  governor.  His 
account  of  the  1830  election  illustrates  how  vivid  language 
contributes  to  historical  reconstruction; 

In  many  counties,  the  candidates  would  hire  all 
the  groceries  at  the  county  seats  and  other  con¬ 
siderable  villages,  where  the  people  could  get 
liquor  without  cost  for  several  weeks  before  the 
election.  In  such  places,  during  the  pending  of 
elections,  the  voters  in  all  the  neighboring  coun¬ 
try  turned  out  on  every  Saturday,  to  visit  the 
county  seat,  to  see  the  candidates,  and  hear  the 
news.  They  came  by  the  dozens  from  all  parts, 
and  on  every  road,  riding  on  their  ponies,  which 
they  hitched  up  or  tied  to  the  fences,  trees,  and 
bushes  in  the  village.  The  candidates  came  also, 
and  addressed  the  people  from  wagons,  benches, 
old  logs,  or  stumps  newly  cut,  from  whence 
comes  the  phrase  “stump  speeches,”  used  to 
signify  a  popular  harangue  to  the  people,  by  a 
candidate  for  office.  The  stump  speeches  being 
over,  then  commenced  the  drinking  of  liquor, 
and  long  before  night  a  large  portion  of  the 
voters  would  be  drunk  and  staggering  about 
town,  cursing,  swearing,  hallooing,  yelling, 
huzzaing  for  their  favorite  candidates,  throwing 
their  arms  up  and  around,  threatening  to  fight, 
and  fighting.  .  .  Towards  evening  they  would 
mount  their  ponies,  go  reeling  from  side  to  side, 
galloping  through  town,  and  throwing  up  their 
caps  and  hats,  screeching  like  so  many  infernal 


spirits  broke  loose  from  their  nether  prison,  and 

thusthey  departed  for  their  homes,  (pp.  104-05) 

Ford’s  personal  views,  as  opposed  to  scholarly  conclusions 
are  evident  throughout  the  book,  and  he  uses  first  persoi 
narration  in  the  sections  related  to  his  administration.  Be 
cause  the  narrator  participated  in  or  witnessed  many  of  th' 
events,  and  because  his  unique  self  is  experienced  by  th' 
reader.  Ford’s  history  is  closely  akin  to  autobiography.  I 
is  a  justification  for,  if  not  his  life,  at  least  his  administration 
Because  he  had  been  a  judge  and  later,  as  governor,  hai 
struggled  with  the  Mormon  problem,  the  history  is  also 
thoughtful  examination  of  the  law  and  its  limitations  on  th 
frontier.  In  fact,  the  book  is  a  broadly  focused  expressio 
of  that  most  significant  Illinois  theme,  the  struggle  for 
good  and  just  society. 

6.  STUDIES  OF  NATURE  AND  CULTURE 

Ford’s  contemporary ,  Eliza  Famham,  was  the  first  not 
able  nature  writer  in  Illinois.  Her  Life  in  Prairie  Lana 
discussed  above  as  a  settler’s  account,  includes  vivid  dc 
scriptions  of  the  wilderness  and  frontier  wildlife.  But  i 
general,  nature  writing  did  not  develop  in  Illinois  until  th 
twentieth  century.  It  is  essentially  descriptive  prose  that  trie 
to  place  the  natural  world  before  the  reader,  with  greau 
perception  than  most  people  are  capable  of. 

One  of  the  best  Illinois  nature  writers  was  also  a  womai 
Springfield’s  Virginia  S.  Eifert.  Her  finest  work  was  dor 
in  short  essays  that  first  appeared  in  The  Living  Museun 
an  Illinois  State  Museum  periodical.  Commonly,  an  Eife 
essay  is  a  celebration  of  nature  in  poetic  prose,  an  attem) 
to  make  the  reader  see,  hear,  smell,  and  feel  with  greau 
sensitivity.  She  also  urged  people  to  become  aware  of  n; 
ture’s  deep  and  pervasive  symmetry,  its  repetition  of  desigi 
its  complicated  simplicity.  But  she  was  not  interested 
philosophical  speculation.  Her  writing  does  not  provol 
thought;  it  heightens  aesthetic  response  to  natural  beau; 
and  fosters  appreciation  for  the  living  earth. 

Chicago  nature  writer  Leonard  Dubkin  was  ni 
philosophically  inclined  either,  but  he  dramatized  his  e 
forts  to  experience  and  understand  nature  in  books  lil 
The  Murmur  of  Wings  (1944)  and  Enchanted  Stree 
(1947).  Not  nature  in  itself  but  nature  in  the  life  of  ci 
dweller  Leonard  Dubkin  is  the  constant  focus  of  his  wri 
ing.  The  reader  of  his  books  is  impressed  by  the  ranj 
and  intensity  of  his  curiosity.  He  is  not  so  much  a  describ 
of  what  he  experiences  as  he  is  a  prober  into  the  wor 
of  other  living  things.  In  Enchanted  Streets  he  defines 
true  naturalist  as  "a  man  of  imagination,  of  vision... wl 
takes  an  active  part  in  the  lives  of  the  animals  and  plan 
about  him.  and  by  participating  in  their  affairs,  comes 
understand  the  motives  and  urges  behind  their  action 
(p.  182).  Although  he  was  not  referring  to  himself,  th 
is  a  good  description  of  Leonard  Dubkin. 

The  most  gifted  Illinois  nature  writer  was  Donald  Ci 
ross  Peattie.  the  son  of  Chicago  journalists  Robert  and  El 


8 


eattie.  Although  he  spent  much  of  his  life  outside  the  state, 
is  finest  book  relates  to  Illinois.  An  Almanac  for  Moderns 
1935)  is  composed  of  365  brief  daily  essays,  based  largely 
n  his  observations  at  Kennicott’s  Grove  near  Chicago.  He 
ved  there  for  three  years.  Like  Thoreau  at  Walden  Pond, 
eattie  intended  to  confront  the  essential  facts  of  life,  to 
)ok  within  reality  and  himself,  and  to  discover  how  the 
[dividual  should  live.  The  Almanac  is  a  personal  record  of 
ne  naturalist’s  attempt  to  bring  his  thoughts  and  experiences 
ito  some  kind  of  philosophical  focus,  using  the  cycle  of 
le  year  as  context  for  his  reflections.  It  is  also  an  analysis 
f  man’s  predicament  with  respect  to  the  living  world — a 
odd  which  has  no  purposeful  design  and  no  special  regard 
)r  him  despite  his  illusion  of  centrality.  And  the  book 
weals  the  development  of  man’s  sensitivity  to  the  natural 
odd  through  sketches  about  the  great  students  of  nature 
om  Aristotle  to  John  Burroughs.  No  nature  writer  has  ever 
;en  more  thoroughly  aware  of  the  tradition  in  which  he 
as  writing.  An  Almanac  for  Moderns  is  both  probing  and 
oetic,  a  fine  blend  of  personal  experience,  philosophical 
peculation,  and  historical  perspective.  Peattie’s  inquiry  into 
le  biological  reality  that  confronts  modem  man  results  in 
reater  sensitivity  to  the  vast  and  complex  mechanism  of 
ature,  a  deeper  sympathy  for  all  life,  and  a  sense  of  harmony 
ith  the  natural — for  the  reader  as  well  as  the  author.  One 
f  the  finest  volumes  of  nature  writing  produced  in  America, 
is  book  has  encouraged  other  naturalist-authors  to  use  the 
Imanac  format. 

Aside  from  nature  studies,  Illinois  literature  includes 
wide  variety  of  interesting  descriptive  and  analytical 
'orks,  from  Baker  Brownell’s  philosophically  profound  and 
;ructurally  complex  Earth  is  Enough  (1935)  to  Studs  Ter- 
el’s  compendium  of  popular  perceptions.  Division  Street: 
merica  (1967).  One  of  the  most  widely  admired  works 
i  Nelson  Algren’s  prose  poem,  Chicago:  City  on  the 
lake  (1951).  The  noted  novelist  depicts  the  city  as 
lustlertown,  where  “Everybody’s  out  for  the  Buck”  (p. 
0) — and  where  they  have  been  since  the  first  settlers 
ustled  the  Potawatomies.  Chicago  is  an  urban  wilderness, 
uperimposed  on  the  wilderness  the  Indians  knew.  But  if 
:  is  “built  out  of  Man’s  ceaseless  failure  to  overcome 
imself,”  it  is  therefore  “the  city  of  all  cities  most  like 
Ian  himself. . .”(p.  87).  It  is  deeply  human,  utterly  real, 
fascinating  writer’s  town,  a  place  you  can  fall  in  love 
/ith,  as  Algren  certainly  did. 

Another  beautifully  written  descriptive-historical  book 
;  devoted  to  the  Illinois  that  is  most  remote  from  Chicago, 
eographically  and  culturally.  And  if  it  is  not  exactly  a  prose 
oem,  it  nevertheless  includes  some  strikingly  poetic  prose, 
laker  Brownell’s  The  Other  Illinois  (1958)  is  a  stunning 
nd  provocative  report  from  “Egypt,”  that  region  “Off  to 
tie  south  of  the  big-time  Illinois”  (p.  3),  a  place  of  natural 
leauty  and  (in  the  1950s)  economic  depression:  “Spring  is 
ncandescent  here;  it  glows  with  a  strange,  soft  fire.  The 
utumns  are  golden  and  still;  each  tree  in  its  own  way  is  a 
ransfiguration. . .  .But  the  lovely  spring  and  fall  and  the  mild 
vinter  between  them  are  not  enough,  if  there  are  no  jobs” 
p.  9).  Brownell  cherishes  southern  Illinois  because  he  views 


it  as  “a  symbol  of  something  in  America  that  we  cannot 
afford  to  lose”  at  a  time  when  the  metropolis  and  the  values 
of  mass  society  are  shaping  our  culture:  “The  hills  and 
bottom  lands,  the  living  forests  and  the  fossil  forests  [coal 
deposits]  below  ground,  the  lakes,  the  orchards,  and  the 
people,  always  the  people,  stubborn,  bitter,  beautiful  in 
their  little  towns  and  tattered  farms,  this  is  folk  America, 
the  germinal  society  from  which  our  democratic  customs, 
industries  and  arts  continuously  emerge”  (p.  20).  The  persis¬ 
tence  of  the  dream  amid  discouraging  realities:  Brownell 
echoes  Birkbeck  140  years  after  the  latter  first  brought  atten¬ 
tion  to  southern  Illinois.  The  Other  Illinois  is  a  plea  for 
public  attention  to  the  problems  of  that  region,  which 
nevertheless  still  symbolizes  the  good  society  that  Birkbeck 
helped  to  establish. 

The  Chicago  of  Black  Metropolis  (1945)  symbolizes 
the  opposite.  The  classic  sociological  study  by  St.  Clair 
Drake  and  Horace  R.  Cay  ton  depicts  the  repressed,  frus¬ 
trated,  potentially  explosive  black  society  that  developed  in 
the  city  wheft  overt  racial  discrimination  was  commonplace. 
Historically,  the  “native”  Chicagoans  were  always  against 
the  outsiders,  those  who  were  re-enacting  the  mythic  role 
of  immigrant:  “The  entire  history  of  Chicago  from  its  birth 
to  the  Eirst  World  War  was  characterized  by  the  struggle, 
sometimes  violent,  of  the  first-comers  and  native-whites 
against  the  later  immigrants,  the  ’foreigners’”  (p.  17).  Then, 
the  Negroes  came  in  huge  numbers,  “Attracted  by  the  Amer¬ 
ican  Dream”  (p.  18)  to  that  most  new,  most  ethnic,  most 
American  of  all  cities.  But  the  reality  they  encountered  was 
more  than  temporarily  discouraging;  it  was  overwhelming. 
Their  struggle  for  a  good  and  just  society  would  continue 
for  decades,  and  Bronzeville,  the  Black  Metropolis,  the 
South  Side  ghetto,  would  be  created  because  of  white  resis¬ 
tance  of  their  dream.  The  book  records  that  struggle  and 
examines  the  black  culture  that  resulted  from  it. 

If  the  prairies  had  been  symbolic  of  freedom  for  pre- 
Civil  War  immigrants  to  Illinois,  Chicago  meant  the  same 
to  those  black  Americans  who  arrived  by  the  thousands  100 
years  after  Birkbeck.  It  was  an  urban  frontier,  a  West  in 
concrete  and  steel,  a  place  of  endless  new  beginnings.  But 
Chicago  soon  became  a  reverse  reflection  of  the  prairies. 
For  the  new  “settlers,”  the  future  was  symbolized  by  city 
walls  rather  than  open  spaces.  Racial  discrimination 
spawned  a  reality  that  was  incompatible  with  the  American 
Dream:  congestion,  unemployment,  long-term  poverty,  in¬ 
adequate  housing,  poor  schools,  and  a  fixed  social  status. 
No  wonder  Black  Metropolis  is  “the  anatomy  of  Negro 
frustration”  (p.  xxvi),  as  Richard  Wright  says  in  his  fine 
Introduction  to  it.  Although  the  authors  do  not  deal  explicitly 
in  myth  and  symbol,  the  mythology  of  Illinois  is  incomplete, 
the  symbolic  meaning  of  Chicago  is  incomprehensible,  with¬ 
out  their  book.  It  is  a  probing  and  powerful  cultural  study. 

If  literary  criticism  has  risen  to  the  level  of  significant 
literature  in  Illinois,  it  is  in  Harry  Hansen’s  Midwest  Por¬ 
traits  (1923),  a  volume  of  descriptive-analytical  sketches 
focused  on  Carl  Sandburg,  Sherwood  Anderson.  Ben  Hecht, 
and  other  writers  of  the  Chicago  Renaissance  era.  The  author 


a 


9 


I 


YEN  /  SUPPLEMENTARY 

FICTION  TO  1915  FICTION  SINCE  1915  f  POETRY  '  BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


not  only  characterizes  those  figures  and  comments  on  their 
work,  he  celebrates  them,  and  in  the  process  he  captures 
the  excitement  of  Chicago’s  literary  leadership.  His  closing 
remarks  about  Sherwood  Anderson  could  just  as  well  refer 
to  Carl  Sandburg,  Vachel  Lindsay,  Floyd  Dell,  or  “the  Il¬ 
linois  writer”  in  general  of  that  progressive,  original,  socially 
idealistic  period:  “He  is  a  mystic  and  a  dreamer,  a  groper 
after  truth,  deluded  at  times  by  his  child-like  faith  in  his 
own  dreams  and  imaginings,  and  yet,  like  a  child,  a  little 
nearer  truth  by  reason  of  his  dreams”  (p.  179). 

The  most  influential  study  to  come  out  of  Illinois  is 
also  based  largely  on  Chicago,  but  the  city  is  never  men¬ 
tioned  in  the  book.  Thorstein  Veblen’s  The  Theory  of  the 
Leisure  Class  (1899)  is  a  classic  of  American  economics, 
an  analysis  of  social  conduct  that  probed  the  world  of  wealth 
and  made  “conspicuous  consumption”  a  significant  concept 
of  American  self-under-standing.  C.  Wright  Mills  has  refer¬ 
red  to  Veblen  as  “the  best  critic  of  America  that  America 
has  produced”  and  “the  only  comic  writer  among  modem 
social  scientists.”^  Others  have  viewed  him  as  a  great  satirist, 
whose  Theory  of  the  Leisure  Class  is  a  superb  achievement 
in  the  tradition  of  Swift,  Voltaire,  and  Shaw.  It  is  indeed  a 
work  of  considerable  literary  art  that  smashes  our  conven¬ 
tional  perception  and  replaces  it  with  a  new,  more  complex 
and  ironic  viewpoint.  Despite  the  book’s  sometimes  ponder¬ 
ous  prose,  it  engages  the  reader  in  the  author’s  vision  like 
few  other  volumes  of  American  nonfiction. 


7.  ESSAYS  AND  ARTICLES 

A  book-length  study  like  Veblen’s  is  sometimes  called 
an  extended  essay,  but  that’s  like  referring  to  a  novel  as  an 
extended  short  story.  The  essay  is  the  only  form  of  nonfiction 
with  a  length  limit:  it  is  always  short.  The  informal  or  “true” 
essay  is  brief,  personal,  and  unrestricted  in  subject  matter 
and  organization.  The  style  is  never  stiff;  the  treatment  is 
commonly  tentative.  The  author  of  an  informal  essay  ob¬ 
serves  and  contemplates;  he  interprets  the  matter  under  con¬ 
sideration  and,  in  the  process,  reveals  his  unique  vision.  He 
dramatizes  his  insight. 

The  informal  essay  was  first  written  in  Illinois  by  Morris 
Birkbeck,  whose  Letters  from  Illinois  is  essentially  a  series 
of  essays.  (The  letter-essay  was  very  common  in  the 
eighteenth  century.)  He  also  wrote  antislavery  newspaper 
essays,  the  “Jonathan  Freeman”  pieces.  Because  early  Il¬ 
linois  newspapermen  were  usually  more  devoted  to  the  ex¬ 
pression  of  opinion  than  the  gathering  of  news,  they  wel¬ 
comed  essays,  which  often  appeared  as  letters  to  the  editor. 

The  most  noted  essayists  in  Illinois  history  have  been 
associated  with  Chicago  journalism.  Eugene  Field  was  the 
city’s  first  nationally  famous  newspaper  humorist,  and  he 
used  his  “Sharps  and  Flats”  column  as  a  vehicle  for  both 
prose  and  verse.  Focused  intently  on  the  superficial.  Field 
did  not  create  any  essays  of  lasting  value.  But  Finley  Peter 
Dunne  did.  By  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  he  was 
the  most  famous  newspaper  humorist  in  America.  His  dialect 
essays  featured  a  fictional  person  named  Mr.  Dooley — an 


opinionated  Irish  moralist,  a  bartender  and  crackerbarrel; 
philosopher,  who  commented  on  local  and  national  matters.^ 
An  incisive  satirist,  Dunne  wrote  many  essays  that  depict — 
or  rather,  dramatize  through  the  vision  of  Mr.  Dooley — the 
characteristics  of  American  culture,  as  in  this  account  of 
the  resilient  Democratic  Party: 

“Man  an’  boy  I’ve  seen  th’  Dimmycratic  party 
hangin’  to  the  ropes  a  score  iv  times.  I’ve  seen 
it  dead  an’  burrid  an’  the’  Raypublicans  kindly 
buildin’  a  monymint  fr  it  an’  preparin’  to  spind 
their  declinin’  days  in  the’  custom  house.  I’ve 
gone  to  sleep  nights  wondrin’  where  I’d  throw 
away  me  vote  afther  this,  an’  whin  I  woke  up 
there  was  that  crazy-headed  of  loon  iv  a  party 
with  its  hair  sthreamin’  in  its  eyes,  an’  an  axe 
in  its  hand,  chasin’  Raypublicans  into  th'  tall 
grass.  ’Tis  niver  so  good  as  whin  'tis  broke, 
whin  rayspictable  people  speak  iv  it  in  whispers, 
an’  whin  it  has  no  leaders  an'  on'y  wan  principel, 
to  go  in  an’  take  it  away  fr'm  the  other  fellows.”* 

George  Ade  was  a  humorist  of  equal  talent,  but  his  worl 
was  essentially  fictional,  as  the  title  of  his  famous  “Storie 
of  the  Streets  and  of  the  Town”  column  suggests,  so  hi 
writing  falls  outside  the  scope  of  this  study.  Likewise,  Rinj 
Lardner  was  an  important  Chicago  newspaper  humorist  o 
the  second  decade  of  the  twentieth  century,  but  as  his  “Jacl 
Keefe”  letters  in  You  Know  Me,  Al  (1916)  demonstrate,  hi 
derived  his  humor  from  the  imaginative  creation  of  charac 
ter,  not  self-exploration  or  social  commentary.  He  too  wa 
essentially  a  fiction  writer. 

Ben  Hecht  was  one  of  the  finest  newspaper  essayist 
ever  associated  with  Illinois,  and  perhaps  no  one  blurre* 
the  distinction  between  the  essay  and  short  fiction  like  h 
did.  His  1921-1922  column  for  the  Daily  News,  "On 
Thousand  and  One  Afternoons  in  Chicago,”  was  very  popu 
lar,  and  the  pieces  he  wrote  for  it  were  sometimes  storie 
based  on  his  experiences  and  sometimes  meditations,  pei 
sonal  narratives,  or  interviews.  As  editor  Henry  Justin  Smit 
said  in  his  Preface  to  One  Thousand  and  One  Afternoon 
in  Chicago  (1922).  "They  were  presented  to  the  public  a 
journalism;  journalism  that  invaded  the  realm  of  literature., 
(p.  10).  In  other  words,  they  were  reports  about  the  city 
but  reports  crafted  into  fiction  and  literary  nonfictior 
Perhaps  the  best  of  them  is  “Grass  Figures,”  an  autobioj 
raphical  episode  presented  in  third  person,  in  which  an  ui 
named  newspaper  reporter  who  is  trying  to  write  reflec 
that  “the  city  was  nothing  more  nor  less  than  a  vast,  broke 
mirror,  giving  him  back  garbled  images  ot  himself  (| 
285).  That  metaphor  itself  suggests  a  lack  of  aesthetic  di 
tance:  Hecht’s  pieces  were  essentially  personal  experienc 
or  reconstructed  observations. 

In  our  own  time.  Tribune  columnist  Mike  Royko  kee] 
the  tradition  of  Chicago  newspaper  humor  alive.  He  is 
satirist  with  an  insider's  knowledge  ot  the  city,  and  he  dea 
in  cynicism,  outrage,  and  common  sense.  During  the  pa 
twenty  years,  he  has  created  a  public  image  through  h 


10 


)lumn:  “Royko,”  the  newspaperman  who  knows  the  inner 
laracter  of  Chicago  and  expects  corruption  and  self-con- 
:m,  but  who  loves  the  city  anyway.  The  Chicago  he  de- 
cts — like  the  Chicago  of  James  T.  Farrell  and  Nelson 
Igren — is  tough,  crude,  ambitious,  violent,  crooked,  ma- 
rialistic,  and  non-intellectual.  It  is  “Land  of  the  free — 
)me  of  the  fix,”’  but  it  is  somehow  more  vital  than  than 
ost  of  America.  Despite  his  frequent  Chicago  focus,  his 
(lurnn  is  widely  syndicated. 

The  Illinois  newspaper  has  also  continued  to  be  an 
iportant  outlet  for  serious  essays  and  articles.  In  fact, 
veral  collections  included  in  the  “Essay  and  Articles”  sec- 
)n  of  the  nonfiction  bibliography  in  this  book  contain  seri- 
is  newspaper  pieces.  The  article  is  sometimes  distinguished 
Dm  the  essay  by  its  objective  technique  or  impersonal 
/le,  which  makes  it  equivalent  to  what  scholars  call  “the 
rmal  essay.”  By  that  measure,  the  in-depth  report,  the 
ature  story,  the  critical  evaluation  (of  a  writer),  and  even 
me  commentaries  on  public  issues  are  articles  rather  than 
je  essays.  (So  are  scholarly  studies,  like  the  one  you  are 
)w  reading.)  But  such  a  distinction  is  often  difficult  to 
ake,  for  there  is  a  trend  toward  the  inclusion  of  subjective 
aments  in  newspaper  and  magazine  articles  of  every  kind. 

Indeed,  contemporary  newspaper  nonfiction  is  charac- 
rized  by  much  experimentation  with  literary  techniques, 
rry  Klein’s  feature  articles  on  central  Illinois  towns,  writ- 
n  during  the  past  twenty  years  for  the  Peoria  Journal  Star, 
id  collected  as  Played  in  Peoria,  1980  combine  reporting 
id  interviews  with  his  own  impressionistic  response  to 
ch  location.  His  article  on  Canton,  for  example,  begins 
ith  such  a  response;  “Driving  into  Canton  late  on  a  summer 
ening  brings  the  feel  of  going  backwards  in  time  into  the 
I30s,  when  kids  played  kick-the-can  on  quiet  streets  or 
llerskated  in  the  lingering  dusks,  when  the  soft  summer 
ghts  folded  themselves  around  little  towns,  leaving  long 
hoes  of  familiar  sounds”  (p.  76).  His  language  is  often 
ghly  poetic,  and  his  articles  are  carefully  structured.  They 
e  indeed  essays  designed  to  provide  a  literary  experience 
r  the  reader. 

Klein’s  colleague  at  the  Journal  Star,  Rick  Baker, 
ironicles  the  fate  of  contemporary  Illinoisans.  He  writes 
column  of  investigative  reports,  usually  on  news-related 
bjects  (lawbreaking,  personal  tragedy,  etc.),  but  he  always 
inveys  a  distinctive  attitude  toward  the  story  that  he  is 
ivering  and  thereby  interprets  it  for  his  readers.  And  like 
iein,  he  rigorously  selects  details  that  support  the  impres- 
Dn  he  is  trying  to  convey.  The  people  he  depicts  are  often 
ught  in  circumstances  beyond  their  control — like  the  bank- 
pt  central  Illinois  farmers  who  have  committed  suicide  in 
cent  years.  Occasionally,  Baker  even  dramatizes  his  at- 
mpt  to  get  the  story,  as  in  a  1979  series  of  articles  about 
s  efforts  to  identify  “Mary  Doefour,”  an  unidentified 
Dman  (a  “Mary  Doe,”  number  four)  who  died  at  a  nursing 


home.  In  such  articles  he  emerges  as  an  inquisitive,  compas¬ 
sionate  individual,  a  witness  to  the  struggle  and  tragedy  of 
downstaters,  a  man  trying  to  under-stand. 

As  this  brief  study  suggests,  Illinois  has  a  rich  and 
varied  nonfictional  tradition,  which  includes  many  fine 
works  that  are  seldom  regarded  as  literary  art.  For  scholars, 
there  is  the  opportunity  to  change  that  public  perception,  to 
analyze  the  artistry  and  reveal  the  significance  of  numerous 
autobiographies,  essays,  speeches,  and  other  achievements. 
For  readers,  there  is  the  pleasure  of  encountering  perceptive 
and  probing  literature  woven  directly  from  the  Illinois  ex¬ 
perience — literature  in  which  farmers  cope  with  hard  times, 
Richard  Daley  runs  a  political  machine,  the  South  Side 
becomes  a  black  metropolis,  Carl  Sandburg  grows  up,  Jane 
Addams  manages  Hull  House,  anarchists  riot  in  Haymarket 
Square,  Chicago  burns,  the  Civil  War  drags  on,  Lincoln 
vies  with  Douglas,  settlers  dream  and  struggle.  Black  Hawk 
refuses  to  leave,  and  the  unbroken  prairie  stretches  to  the 
horizon.  But  reading  the  literary  nonfiction  of  Illinois  is 
infinitely  more  than  looking  back.  It  is  looking  into — these 
people,  this  place. 


NOTES 

1  Most  of  my  quotations  are  from  literary  works  listed 
in  the  following  bibliography.  Hence,  full  citations  to 
them  are  omitted,  and  page  numbers  are  simply  given 
in  parentheses.  The  quotations  are  from  first  editions, 
unless  otherwise  noted. 

2  The  citation  is  to  the  Early  Western  Travels  edition 
(1906). 

3  “Stephen  B.  Oates,”  in  The  Biographer’ s  Gift,  ed. 
James  S.  Veninga  (College  Station:  Texas  A.  and  M. 
Univ.  Press,  1983),  p.  32. 

4  The  term  “providential  drama”  has  been  used  by  Robert 
Meredith;  “Introduction,”  Narrative  of  Riots  at  Alton 
(New  York:  E.  P.  Dutton,  1965),  p.  xxix. 

5  “Introduction  to  the  Mentor  Edition,”  The  Theory  of 
the  Leisure  Class  (New  York:  New  American  Library, 
1953),  p.  vi. 

6  “The  Democratic  Party,”  in  Mr.  Dooley  at  His  Best, 
ed.  Elmer  Ellis  (New  York:  Scribner’s,  1938),  p.  85. 

7  “Land  of  the  free-home  of  the  fix,”  Chicago  Tribune, 
May  8,  1984,  p.  2. 


1 1 


'  ■  >IO'.  '‘*V  ■  .1  '  *'•  -J  '»•«»' 


•  ♦  *. 


«  k  «  •  • 

V  ,  'I 


't 

•  »  f  • 

-  vr 


■/.•*:  y-  .  ■*  -v  -fi 

^  'r'  •.  '•' 


I,'  ‘  '  .  •'-*3 

f-  v  ■  ;'■•*>  ♦<  W'--j<iliWi»‘^>  rriiJ  iifLr  iOiyt^^ 

.  .  v-^-'uy vvr»:A«V^|i.  ^  4  «r4^ 

„  „  lNf»*^*:  tUf  V  '>.>!Pnr.  W<l 

!<i  ■  taU  ■— <>  "''•»/<  ^  r-  «  w  > 


'Ity.v  ••<*  {!>)  W!i^“'*^BVT'ff 


•^fl(h^!rtli??rt/9vsn?^4  t«iJi  -•' 

fc  -t;  Mrv/'.  *’Alr  t,.-  r:  V  vi  'iui  '♦**’44bt»t  »!Wf- ' 


).:s  A  •  itMi.'V  ¥  »  «<»  «lr  *'•  *»'  •  t 


<.oiin\." 


•i_L;5-«a 


.  .It,  ^  r,»v  .vTi, ■>»  .fi?<i-3ffly 

->  *  --  .,..  MTQ¥i 

,;  It, 

*^|WiiMV)»iii  Vm  >o  ' 

W  /tf  ')£4b  114*  ,ttw&H  tiiqw*^Wk>  "f’  nt 

'  w  >ii4w 


•  r' kljf^  f  .;7-. 

u  :j 

>'ty*- -rr^  'v  tuV</i  V 

•(kl-.'il  "' I'-t  J5u  I  •  ♦ ’tf"  vMtO 

irimtij 


mf.td|gEiNa. 

-  llKSril^  •■io4.)*-<.ai  ti?N 

rv>i{|  uk'*  ut/  JODIQ  WQffMtra  ■  v'li^ 

*ut  •  %*' 

If  '?< 

aii^  i  ■  n;  .  ;a  ■  -*s4r^  ._<  v  j4 

M*  :yUU|^  -* 

<j"  4tJ;i}iM£jbK  .>t  1  i^-' ~  ‘f-i 

-1  ^uka  ■  "  '■ ' 

L-  Kt4r^?n0r  ♦♦  •it^»BB  -■  "  ’ :  • 

1^,11  ,  i-ifff  i  fft*  .  »y 

V,!  li*(.'<i«i'/ti4irai^fMMU:  --aiir*i^sv  ^  ^.aj 

-  I  .ty,  .VI  4»  •rti  ^ 

.TJV  Vi'^  .n-^-rtf  v iw»iioU^'«4*i<|^  3(!t>  Mli.^ 

■MM1}  ,  .0*<l)r.,  4jq  «t»'i  >?»l  n6lJl_.^^  . 

'a«.ii^ii...‘».-sBU  -.wtioiifiia*,- 

Ml  Jjc/Ctf^;h« 

ijyfC^U. ..  irt  fioiiiutaf'k  ucUi/u  /Wii:U|p  t  ' '  v 
^  '•  r-  vf.  ov  '•  V.  ’  ’’^*9^ 

t  >  U^>  ty  '>41;  'Wo *  '  ni  f^i 

rnHigiiyiT-  ^^crftf  ittJraEW ^cm  - 

irKt,r!‘»jrn'«.ai«fs“-.'.  C^l^*  ULaaiw'f’^'JSi^  •- 

.  1 1  '  i^i  f.'jktif t^i/ll^ rif |pWii^«  *  iA  *'****  y#iii"  rti^ 

twifii  j.>fc  i'iyAfti>'B»*'‘i>«52J'«iirtii^Tni  '-  t 
yk  •  ni:  1  — *i4: 

. .  -  ''^*7 

'iMMMtfr-  <*b4  »■  ■  ^iW’i  ' ' r-  «j^y||jr 

i,  ^^jara(fc<l«  -<u^r<ny  -.  i 

--  3PttM  V  it?«L  irvttiig4r'  • 
-jj?*.  -#  ir*:  ^f»<»QoKi  f«  li  -  e^ 

If'*  I  J  ♦  >1^.-  -4*  *  ^ 


^\.\  .•‘I-. 


iKfWktt'.  -*:?  W»^II-».' 


r.jtall  ’I 

.  j  jJ 


i  •  ''  y-S;  ■  '•  W<.«  ^.i!*  ‘/U'».  'h  n.'U 

f*'  v.»*K  '.5irrten,.nT 


)  "s.f*  ■'(«•  <tY*,fC|#i)Mi; 


1  ^  '•v^jiMiiMf  '.il»t  i>4 

CfPik-  •'  «»  •*”  '''  *'  ■  ’ 
y  *iij9|  I  ‘  ^  V  '  ''^  '''^  *  ' 

.it.»A*  «3»ntjr,  ^  ' 

•■(r  iVji'i  '*  .>  ' 

■  I  .4  )  .  ■  ..,  •',•  ^iwi'i.«4.  .  ,'  -r 


->tnu*.  -  **i  j 

lar^'W^  vuj 

If— jn‘j 

.VTTT^  "*‘  "  v  'l 

«f^  ' .» *K  •ji'* 
h4'*  ■S»^  ! 

r.y - 

W  IklH*' 

'yA.  ;b^»Ki-Vi-  ’  •»  M 

.  *-V<«  l>iv*aip3^iVW»*'^'^^ -coi*^ 

ii'**,  I ..an'-  1- 

■  f  w* »  k c;  fw-l  n^f  *V\''  nn'iirm  ■,-jFkl\>1 


.  ^  •'  'I'l'f  i^  fc-*  vvi,t~ '^r  .. 

.0^  W^C  >, 

•#*■-  yv^HT*^  '■"  ■•■'  ' 


1 


NONFICTION 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  following  list  covers  writers  from  the  frontier 
;riod  to  the  present.  It  does  not  include  works  by  French 
Lplorers  and  missionaries  or  others  who  traveled  in  the 
ea  before  Illinois  had  a  separate  political  identity.  In  each 
jnfiction  category.  “Primary  Sources”  designates  the  liter- 
ure  itself,  even  if  that  literature  is  historical  writing.  “Sec- 
idary  Sources”  refers  to  scholarship  about  the  literature, 
sprints  are  not  mentioned  unless  they  include  a  significant 
;w  introduction  or  preface.  If  a  paperback  edition  was 
sued  by  the  hardback  publisher,  the  date  of  that  edition  is 
ven.  If  another  publisher  issued  the  paperback,  that  pub- 
>her's  name  is  also  given. 

ENERAL 

lithologies 

ngle,  Paul  M.,  ed.  Prairie  State:  Impressions  of  Illinois, 
1 637 -1967  by  Travelers  and  Other  Observers. 
Chicago;  Univ.  of  Chicago  Press,  1968.  Extensive 
selection  of  descriptive  accounts. 

ridges,  Roger  D.,  and  Rodney  O.  Davis,  eds.  Illinois:  Its 
History  and  Legacy.  St.  Louis:  River  City,  1984. 
Broadly  focused  historical  studies. 

alper,  Albert,  ed.  This  is  Chicago.  An  Anthology.  New 
York:  Henry  Holt,  1952.  Includes  fiction  and  poetry 
as  well  as  nonfiction. 

erce,  Bessie  Louise,  ed.  As  Others  See  Chicago:  Impres¬ 
sions  of  Visitors,  1673-1933.  Chicago:  Univ.  of 
Chicago  Press,  1933.  Very  good  collection. 

Jtton,  Robert  P.,  ed.  The  Prairie  State:  A  Documentary 
History  of  Illinois.  2  vols.  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.: 
Eerdmans,  1976.  Includes  historical  studies  as  well 
as  documents. 

'alton,  Clyde  C.,  ed.  An  Illinois  Reader .  DeKalb:  Northern 
Illinois  Univ.  Press,  1970.  Historical  studies. 

'ebb,  Howard  W..  Jr.,  ed.  Illinois  Prose  Writers:  A  Selec¬ 
tion.  Carbondale:  Southern  Illinois  Univ.  Press,  1968. 
Includes  fiction  as  well  as  nonfiction;  fifteen  authors 
represented. 

jcondary  Sources 

ondore,  Dorothy  Anne.  The  Prairie  and  the  Making  of 
Middle  America:  Four  Centuries  of  Description. 
Cedar  Rapids,  la.:  Torch  Press,  1926.  Gives  brief 
attention  to  some  Illinois  nonfiction. 

urt,  James.  “Life  in  Prairie  Land:  The  Literature  of  Il¬ 
linois.”  Illinois  English  Bulletin,  70  (Spring,  1983), 


38-49.  Overview  of  fiction  and  nonfiction;  stresses 
prairie,  Lincoln,  and  Chicago  motifs. 

Jamison,  Isabel.  “Literature  and  Literary  People  of  Early 
Illinois,”  Transactions  of  the  Illinois  State  Historical 
Society,  vol.  13,  1908.  Springfield:  Illinois  State  His¬ 
torical  Library,  1909.  Pp.  123-39. 

Nemanic,  Gerald,  ed.  A  Bibliographical  Guide  to  Midwest¬ 
ern  Literature.  Iowa  City:  Univ.  of  Iowa  Press,  1981 . 
Annotated;  very  useful. 

Rusk,  Ralph  Leslie.  The  Literature  of  the  Middle  Western 
Frontier.  2  vols.  New  York;  Columbia  Univ.  Press, 
1926  [c.  1925].  Comments  on  some  Illinois  nonfiction; 
includes  good  but  dated  bibliography. 

Williams,  Kenny  J.  Prairie  Voices:  A  Literary  History  of 
Chicago  from  the  Frontier  to  1893.  Nashville,  Tenn.: 
Townsend  Press,  1980.  Includes  discussion  of  histor¬ 
ical  writing,  memoirs,  and  journalism. 

INDIAN  LITERATURE 

Primary  Sources 

Black  Hawk.  Black  Hawk:  An  Autobiography.  Ed.  by  Don¬ 
ald  H.  Jackson.  Urbana;  Univ.  of  Illinois  Press,  1955. 
The  best  and  most  recent  edition  of  a  classic  that  first 
appeared  in  1833.  Available  in  paperback. 

_ .  Speech  to  General  Street  at  Fort  Armstrong, 

August  27,  1832.  Trans,  by  William  Arrowsmith.  In 
American  Literature:  The  Makers  and  the  Making. 
Ed.  by  Cleanth  Brooks,  et  al.  New  York:  St.  Martin’s, 
1973.  P.  1 182.  Powerful  expression  of  Indian  values. 

_ .  Speeches,  1833  and  1837.  In  Prank  E.  Ste¬ 
vens,  The  Black  Hawk  War.  Chicago:  Frank  E.  Ste¬ 
vens,  1903.  Pp.  259-66,  271.  Other  Indian  speeches 
are  also  included  in  the  book — a  book  very  biased 
against  the  Indians. 

Gomo.  Speeches  at  Peoria,  August  16  and  17,  1811.  In 
Ninian  W.  Edwards,  History  of  Illinois  from  1778  to 
1833  and  Life  and  Times  of  Ninian  Edwards. 
Springfield:  Illinois  State  Journal,  1870.  Pp.  47-49, 
61-63. 

Metea.  Speeches  at  Chicago,  August  17,  22,  23,  1821.  In 
Henry  R.  Schoolcraft,  Travels  in  the  Central  Portions 
of  the  Mississippi  Valley.  New  York;  Collins  and 
Hannay,  1825.  Pp.  340-43,  347-50,  367-69.  School¬ 
craft  also  includes  speeches  by  other  Indians  at  the 
1821  Chicago  Council. 

Secondary  Sources 

Hagan,  WilliamT.  The  Sac  and  Fo.x  Indians.  Norman:  Univ. 
of  Oklahoma  Press.  1958.  Includes  much  on  Black 


I 


13 


Hawk;  has  a  very  useful  bibliography. 

Hallwas,  John  E.  “Black  Hawk;  A  Reassessment.”  The  An¬ 
nals  of  Iowa,  45  (1981),  599-619.  Discusses  Black 
Hawk  by  analyzing  his  spoken  works. 

Krupat,  Arnold.  “The  Indian  Autobiography:  Origins,  Type, 
and  Function.”  American  Literature,  53  (1981),  22- 
42.  Stresses  the  bicultural  composite  authorship  of 
Indian  autobiography;  discusses  Black  Hawk’s  au¬ 
tobiography  a§  the  first  example  of  the  genre. 

TRAVELERS’  AND  SETTLERS’  ACCOUNTS  (Pre- 

Civil  War) 

Primary  Sources 

Birkbeck,  Morris.  Letters  from  Illinois.  London:  Taylor  and 
Henry,  1818.  Rpt.  New  York;  Da  Capo  Press,  1970, 
with  an  Introduction  by  Robert  M.  Sutton.  On  the 
English  Settlement,  Edwards  County. 

_ .  Notes  on  a  Journey  in  America  from  the  Coast 

of  Virginia  to  the  Territory  of  Illinois.  London:  J. 
Ridgway,  1817.  Travel  Diary. 

Buckinham,  Joseph  H .  Illinois  as  Lincoln  Knew  It:  A  Boston 
Reporter’s  Record  of  a  Trip  in  1847.  Ed.  by  Harry 
E.  Pratt.  Springfield:  Abraham  Lincoln  Association, 
1938.  Travel  letters,  first  published  in  the  Boston- 
Courier. 

Burlend,  Rebecca.  A  True  Picture  of  Emigration .  London; 
Berger,  1848.  Rpt.  Chicago:  Donnelley,  1936,  with 
an  Introduction  by  Milo  Milton  Quaife.  A  poor  British 
emigrant  describes  homesteading  in  Pike  County. 

Dickens,  Charles.  American  Notes  for  General  Circulation. 
2  vols.  London:  Chapman,  1842.  Includes  a  famous 
negative  account  of  the  Illinois  frontier. 

Faniham,  Eliza  W.  Life  in  Prairie  Land.  New  York:  Harper, 
1846.  Rpt.  Nieukoop:  De  Graaf,  1972,  with  an  Intro¬ 
duction  by  Madeleine  B.  Stern.  Vividly  re-creates  ex¬ 
periences  on  the  Illinois  frontier;  Tazewell  and  Lee 
counties. 

Flagg,  Edmund.  The  Far  West.  2  vols.  New  York;  Harper, 
1838.  Rpt.  in  Early  Western  Travels  1748-1846.  Ed. 
by  Reuben  Gold  Thwaites.  Cleveland;  Arthur  H. 
Clark,  1906,  vols.  26-21 ,  with  a  Preface  by  Thwaites. 
Romantic  travel  letters  focused  on  southwestern  Il¬ 
linois  and  northwestern  Missouri;  first  published  in 
the  Louisville  Journal. 

Flower,  George.  History  of  the  English  Settlement  in  Ed- 
ards  County,  Illiois.  Chicago  Historical  Society’s  Col¬ 
lection,  voi.  1.  Chicago:  Fergus,  1882.  Based  largely 
on  the  author’s  experiences. 

Fuller,  Sarah  M.  Sununer  on  the  Lakes  in  1843.  Boston: 
Little,  Brown.  1844.  Very  well  written;  includes  ac¬ 
counts  of  Chicago.  Springfield,  and  the  Rock  River 
area. 


Hall.  James.  Letters  from  the  West.  London:  Henry  Colburn. 
1828.  Rpt.  Gainesville,  Fla.:  Scholars’  Facsimiles  and 
Reprints,  1967,  with  an  Introduction  by  John  T.  Flana-  i 
gan.  Includes  memorable  description  of  the  Shaw-  i 
neetown  area. 

Hoffman,  Charles  F.  A  Winter  in  the  West.  2  vols.  New 
York:  Harper,  1835.  Accounts  of  Chicago.  Galena, 
and  Peoria  by  a  noted  New  York  editor. 

Kinzie,  Juliette.  Wau-Bun,  the  “Early  Day”  in  the  North¬ 
west.  New  York:  Derby,  1845.  Rpt.  Chicago:  Rand, 
McNally.  1901 .  with  an  Afterword  by  Eleanor  Kinzie 
Gordon,  and  Chicago:  Lakeside  Press.  1932.  with  an 
Introduction  by  Milo  Milton  Quaife.  Description  of 
an  1830  journey  from  Detroit  to  Chicago,  by  the  wife 
of  pioneer  John  Kinzie;  includes  a  second-hand  ac¬ 
count  of  the  Fort  Dearborn  .Massacre. 

Latrobe,  Charles  J.  The  Rambler  in  North  America.  New 
York:  Harper,  1835.  Includes  a  vivid  description  of 
Chicago  in  1833. 

Martineau,  Harriet.  Society  in  America.  .  .  .2  vols.  London: 
Saunders  and  Otiey.  1837.  Includes  a  portrait  of  early 
Chicago. 

Oliver,  William.  Eight  Months  in  Illinois.  Newcastle  Upon 
Tyne;  William  A.  Mitchell.  1843.  Includes  both  vivid 
prose  and  practical  information;  based  on  a  stay  in 
southern  Illinois. 

Regan,  John.  The  Emigrant' s  Guide  to  the  Western  States  of 
America.  2nd  ed.  Edinburgh:  Oliver  and  Boyd.  1852. 
The  first  edition  appeared  in  the  Ayrshire  Advertiser: 
no  copy  survives.  The  finest  account  by  an  Illinois 
settler;  depicts  homesteading  and  culture  in  northern 
Fulton  County. 

Schoolcraft,  Henry  Rowe.  Travels  in  the  Central  Portions  of 
the  Mississippi  Valley.  New  York:  Collins  and  Han- 
nay,  1825.  Describes  a  trip  up  the  Illinois  River  and 
the  1821  Indian  Council  at  Chicago. 

Shirreff,  Patrick.  A  Tour  Through  North  America.  .  .  .Edin¬ 
burgh;  Oliver  and  Boyd.  1835.  Includes  accounts  ot 
Chicago,  Peoria,  Springfield,  etc. 

Steele,  Eliza  R.  A  Summer  Journey  in  the  West.  New  York; 
J.  S.  Taylor,  1841.  Journal’ of  an  1840  trip;  detailed 
descriptions  of  some  Illinois  River  towns. 

Woods.  John.  Two  Years'  Residence  in  the  Settlement  on  the 
English  Prairie.  .  .  .  London:  Longman.  Hurst.  1822. 
Rpt.  Chicago:  Lakeside  Press.  1968.  w  ith  an  Intrcxluc- 
tion  by  Paul  M.  Angle. 


Secondary  Sources 

Boewe,  Charles  E.  Prairie  Albion:  An  English  Settlement  in 
Pioneer  Illinois.  Carbondale:  Southern  Illinois  Univ. 
Press,  1962.  Excerpts  arranged  to  present  an  account 
of  the  English  Settlement,  with  brief  commentary. 

Davis.  James  E.  "Settlers  in  Frontier  Illinois:  Primary  Evi¬ 
dence,  Persistent  Problems,  and  the  Historian's  Cratt.' 
In  Selected  Papers  in  Illinois  Hist  on  1981.  Ed.  bs 
Bruce  D.  Cody.  Springfield:  Illinois  State  Historical 
Society.  1982.  Pp.  7-14. 


14 


lanagan,  John  T.  James  Hall,  Literaiy  Pioneer  of  the  Ohio 
Valley.  Minneapolis:  Univ.  of  Minnesota  Press,  1941 . 

allwas,  John  E.  “Childe  Harold  in  the  Mississippi  Valley: 
Edmund  Elagg’s  The  Far  West.”  The  Old  Northwest, 
3  (1977),  379-88. 

_ .  “Eliza  Farnham’s  Life  in  Prairie  Land.”  The 

Old  Northwest,  1  (1981-1982),  136-45. 

_ _ .  “John  Regan’s  Emigrant’ s  Guide:  A  Neglected 

Literary  Achievement.”  Illinois  Historical  Journal, 
77  (1984),  269-94. 

_ .  “Morris  Birkbeck’s  Notes  on  a  Journey  in 

America.”  Midwestern  Miscellany,  II  (1983),  7-14. 

ubach,  Robert  R.  “Illinois:  Host  to  Well-known  Nine¬ 
teenth-Century  Authors.”  Journal  of  the  Illinois  State 
Historical  Society,  38  (1945),  446-47. 

urt,  James.  “Reality  and  the  Picture  of  Imagination:  The 
Literature  of  the  English  Prmne.”  Great  Lakes  Review, 
7  (1981),  1-24.  On  Birkbeck  and  Flower. 

overr,  Douglas  A.  “Midwestern  Travel  Literature  of  the 
Nineteenth  Century:  Romance  and  Reality.” 
MidAmerica  IV  (1977),  18-29.  Discusses  Fuller. 

alter,  Mary  Ann.  “Morris  Birkbeck’s  Empire  on  the  Prairies 
— Speculation,  Philanthropy,  or  Mania?”  In  Selected 
Papers  in  Illinois  History  1981.  Ed.  by  Bruce  D. 
Cody.  Springfield:  Illinois  State  Historical  Society, 
1982.  Pp.  1-6. 

later,  Abby.  In  Search  of  Margaret  Fuller.  New  York: 
Delacorte  Press,  1978.  A  biography;  includes  a  chapter 
on  Summer  on  the  Lakes. 

homson,  Gladys  Scott.  A  Pioneer  Family:  The  Birkbecks 
in  Illinois  1 81 8-1 827.  London:  Cape,  1953.  Includes 
letters  by  Birkbeck  and  his  family. 


PEECHES 

rimary  Sources 

•arrow,  Clarence.  Attorney  for  the  Damned.  Ed.  by  Arthur 
Weinberg.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1957. 
Addresses  delivered  in  and  out  of  court. 

_ Verdicts  Out  of  Court.  Ed.  by  Arthur  and  Lila 

Weinberg.  Chicago:  Quadrangle  Books,  1963.  Ad¬ 
dresses  and  essays. 

igersoll,  Robert  G.  The  Works  of  Robert  G.  Ingersoll.  12 
vols.  New  York:  Dresden,  1900.  Lectures,  speeches, 
essays,  and  interviews. 

incoln,  Abraham.  The  Collected  Works  of  Abraham  Lin¬ 
coln.  Ed.  by  Roy  P.  Basler.  9  vols.  New  Brunswick, 
N.J.:  Rutgers  Univ.  Press,  1953.  Supplement,  1832- 
1865.  Westport,  Conn.:  Greenwood,  1974.  Speeches 
and  letters. 

- -  The  Literary  Works  of  Abraham  Lincoln.  Ed. 

by  David  D.  Anderson.  Columbus,  Ohio:  Charles  E. 
Merrill,  1970.  Includes  an  excellent  Introduction. 


Lovejoy,  Elijah.  Speech  at  Alton,  November  3,  1837.  In 
Edward  Beecher,  Narrative  of  Riots  at  Alton.  Alton: 
G.  Holton,  1838.  Pp.  85-91.  Lovejoy’s  famous  “Market 
House  Speech,”  delivered  shortly  before  his  murder. 

Lovejoy,  Owen.  “The  Barbarism  of  Slavery."  Pamphlet, 
U.  S.  House  of  Representatives.  Washington,  D.C.: 
Buell  and  Blanchard,  1860. 

_ .  “Confiscation  of  Rebel  Property.”  Pamphlet, 

U.S.  House  of  Representatives.  Washington,  D.C.: 
Scammell,  1862.  Predicts  that  Lincoln  will  become 
“the  emancipator.” 

_ .  “The  Fanaticism  of  the  Democratic  Party.” 

U.S.  House  of  Representatives.  Washington,  D.C.: 
Buell  and  Blanchard,  1859.  Declares  that  he  helps 
fugitive  slaves  at  his  home  in  Princeton. 

_ .  “Human  Beings,  Not  Property.”  Pamphlet, 

U.  S.  House  of  Representatives.  Washington,  D.C.: 
Buell  and  Blanchard,  1858. 

Stevenson,  Adlai  E.  The  Papers  of  Adlai  E.  Stevenson.  Ed. 
by  Walter  Johnson.  8  vols.  Boston:  Little,  Brown, 
1972-1979.  Mostly  speeches  and  letters. 

Secondary  Sources 

Anderson,  David  D.  Abraham  Lincoln.  New  York:  Twayne, 
1970.  The  best  study  of  Lincoln  as  a  man  of  letters. 

_ .  Robert  Ingersoll.  New  York:  Twayne,  1972. 

Basler,  Roy  P.  “Lincoln’s  Development  as  a  Writer.”  In 
Abraham  Lincoln:  His  Speeches  and  Writings.  Ed. 
Roy  P.  Basler.  New  York:  World,  1946.  Pp.  1-49. 

Cramer,  C.  H.  Royal  Bob:  The  Life  of  Robert  G.  Ingersoll . 
Indianapolis:  Bobbs-Merrill,  1952. 

Dillon,  Merton  Lynn.  Elijah  P.  Lovejoy:  Abolitionist  Editor. 
Urbana:  Univ.  of  Illinois  Press,  1961. 

Edwards,  Herbert  Joseph,  and  John  Erskine  Hankins.  Lin¬ 
coln  the  Writer.  Univ.  of  Maine  Studies,  2nd  series, 
no.  76.  Orono:  Univ.  of  Maine,  1962. 

Hurt,  James.  “All  the  Living  and  the  Dead:  Lincoln’s  Imag¬ 
ery.”  American  Literature,  52  (1980),  351-80. 

Larson,  Orvin.  American  Infidel:  Robert  G .  Ingersoll.  New 
York:  Citadel,  1962. 

Magdol,  Edward.  Owen  Lovejoy:  Abolitionist  in  Congress. 
New  Brunswick,  N.  J.:  Rutgers  Univ.  Press,  1967. 

Martin,  John  Bartlow.  Adlai  Stevenson  of  Illinois.  Garden 
City,  New  York:  Doubleday,  1976.  The  first  half  of 
the  most  extensive,  most  widely  praised  biography  of 
Stevenson. 

_ .  Adlai  Stevenson  and  the  World.  Garden  City, 

N.Y.:  Double-day,  1977.  The  second  half  of  Martin’s 
massive  biography. 


(1 


FICTION  TO  1915  FICTION  SINCE  1915  >  POETRY  BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


Muller,  Herbert  J.  Acilai  Stevenson:  A  Study  in  Values.  Lon¬ 
don:  Hamish  Hamilton,  l%7.  The  most  insightful 
study  of  Stevenson. 

Ravitz,  Abe  C.  Clarence  Darrow  and  the  American  Literary 
Tradition.  Cleveland;  Press  of  Western  Reserve  Univ., 
1962. 

Stein,  Gordon.  Robert  G.  Inj’ersoll:  A  Checklist.  Kent, 
Ohio;  Kent  State  Univ.  F’ress,  1969. 


AUTOBIOGRAPHIES  AND  MEMOIRS 

Primary  Sources 

Addams,  Jane.  Twenty  Years  at  Hull-House.  New  York; 
Macmillan,  1910.  A  superb  autobiography.  Available 
in  paperback  with  an  introduction  by  Henry  Steele. 
Commager;  New  American  Library,  1981 . 

_ .  The  Second  Twenty  Years  at  Hull  House.  New 

York:  Macmillan,  1930. 

Andrews,  Robert  H.  A  Corner  of  Chicago.  Boston;  Little, 
Brown,  1963.  Journalist’s  account  of  his  years  at  the 
Daily  News ,  in  the  1920s  and  1930s. 

Austin.  Mary.  Earth  Horizon.  New  York:  The  Literary 
Guild,  1932.  On  her  early  years  in  Carlinville  and 
laters  years  as  a  writer  of  the  Southwest. 

Britt,  Albert.  An  America  That  Was.  Barre,  Mass.;  Barre, 
1964.  The  author’s  boyhood  days  in  rural  Warren 
County  before  the  turn  of  the  century. 

Burdette,  Robert  J.  The  Drums  of  the  47th.  Indianapolis: 
Bobbs-Merrill,  1914.  Vivid,  impressionistic  Civil  War 
recollections. 

Butcher,  Fanny.  Many  Lives — One  Love.  New  York;  Har¬ 
per,  1972.  Journalist  recalls  growing  up,  working  for 
iheChicago  Tribune,  knowing  Carl  Sandburg,  Sinclair 
Lewis,  and  other  writers. 

Cartwright,  Peter.  Autobiography  of  Peter  Cartwright.  Ed. 
by  W.  P.  Strickland.  Cincinnati;  Cranston,  1856. 
Modern  edition:  Abingdon  Press,  1956,  with  an  Intro¬ 
duction  by  Charles  Wallis.  A  classic  of  Americana. 

Darrow,  Clarence.  The  Story  of  My  Life.  New  York;  Scrib¬ 
ner’s,  1932.  His  Ohio  boyhood,  Chicago  years,  fa¬ 
mous  legal  cases,  and  opinions. 

Dell,  Floyd.  Homecoming:  An  Autobiography.  New  York; 
Farrar,  1933.  Fine  autobiography,  set  in  Barry, 
Quincy,  Davenport,  Chicago,  and  New  York. 

Grant,  Ulysses  S.  Personal  Memoirs  ofU.  S.  Grant.  2  vols. 
New  York:  C.  L.  Webster,  1885-1886.  Rpt.  Cleve¬ 
land:  World,  1952,  with  an  Introduction  and  notes  by 
E.  B.  Long.  Well  written;  ends  with  the  close  of  the 
Civil  War. 


Goodwin,  Rudy  Berkley.  It's  Good  to  be  Black.  Garden 
City,  N.Y.:  Double-day,  1954.  Recollections  of  her 
childhood  in  DuQuoin,  1905-15;  vivid,  positive  ac¬ 
count  of  black  life  in  a  small  southern  Illinois  town. 

Grierson,  Francis.  The  Valley  of  Shadows.  Boston:  Hough- 
ton-Mifflin,  1909.  Historical-autobiographical  ac¬ 
count  of  the  pre-Civil  War  Lincoln  country  and  St. 
Louis,  Fremont’s  expedition  and  Grierson’s  Raid.  The 
famous  first  twelve  chapters  are  partly  Fictionalized. 
Available  in  paperback:  New  College  and  University 
Press,  1970,  with  an  Introduction  by  Harold  P.  Simon¬ 
son. 

Hecht,  Ben.  A  Child  of  the  Century.  New  York;  Simon  and 
Schuster,  1954.  Well-known  journalist’s  autobiog¬ 
raphy,  set  partly  in  Chicago.  1910-1924. 

_ .  Gaily,  Gaily.  New  York:  Doubleday,  1963. 

Memoirs  of  a  cub  reporter  in  Chicago,  1910-1915. 
Filmed  in  1969. 

Lowrie,  Rebecca.  Cambric  Tea.  New  York;  Harper,  1928. 
Memories  of  childhood  in  Galesburg  during  the  1 860s; 
psychologically  sensitive  portrayal. 

Masters,  Edgar  Lee.  Across  Spoon  River.  New  York;  Farrar, 
1936.  The  poet’s  life  in  Petersburg,  Lewistown,  and 
Chicago,  to  1917;  frank  account. 

Mayne,  Isabella  Maud  (Rittenhouse).  Maud.  Ed.  by  Richard 
Lee  Strout.  New  York;  Macmillan,  1939.  Delightful 
diary;  young  woman's  life  in  Cairo.  1881-1895. 

Mezzrow,  Mezz,  and  Bernard  Wolfe.  Really  the  Blues.  New 
York:  Random  House,  1946.  Paperback  edition: 
Doubleday,  1972.  Powerful  autobiography  of  Mez¬ 
zrow,  a  great  jazz  musician  who  was  raised  in  Chicago. 

Monroe,  Harriet.  A  Poet's  Life.  New  York;  Macmillan, 
1938.  Well  written,  important  account  of  her  life  and 
the  Chicago  literary  scene. 

Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  Stelmark.  New  York:  McKay,  1970. 
Writer’s  vivid  account  of  his  youth  in  the  Chicago 
Greek  community.  Also  available  in  a  collection  of 
his  autobiographical  writings:  Reflections:  A  Writer's^ 
Life,  A  Writer's  Work.  Chicago:  Lake  View  Press. 
1983. 

Rascoe.  Burton.  Before  /  Forget.  Garden  City.  N.Y.; 
Doubleday.  1937.  His  youth  and  his  C/j/(</g(>  r/77>//nt’ 
years.  191 1-1920. 

Reynolds.  John.  My  Own  Times,  Embracing  also  a  Histors 
of  My  Life.  Belleville;  B.  H.  Perryman  and  L.  H. 
Davi.son,  1855.  The  most  w  idely  known  edition  was 
published  by  the  Chicago  Historical  Society  in  1879. 
Memoir  of  the  Illinois  frontier  and  his  experience  as 
a  ranger,  legislator,  and  governor. 

Sandburg.  Carl.  Always  the  Young  Strangers.  New  York: 
Harcourt.  1953.  The  poet’s  early  years  in  Galesburg. 
1878-1898;  highly  praised. 


16 


_ .  Ever  the  Winds  of  Chance.  New  York:  Har- 

court,  1983.  Sandburg’s  college  years;  unfinished,  but 
vivid  and  significant. 

ymour,  Ralph  Fletcher.  Some  Went  This  Way.  Chicago: 
R.  F.  Seymour,  1945.  Recalls  artists  and  the  arts  in 
turn  of  the  century  Chicago. 

llwell,  Leander.  The  Story  of  a  Common  Soldier  of  Army 
Life  in  the  Civil  War  1861-1865.  Erie,  Kansas:  Erie 
Record,  1917.  Soldier  from  Jersey  County. 

me,  Melville.  Fifty  Years  a  Journalist.  Garden  City, 
N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1921.  Stone  founded  the  Daily 
News,  hired  Field  and  Ade,  organized  the  AP. 

ivis,  Dempsey  J.  An  Autobiography  of  Black  Chicago. 
Chicago:  Urban  Research  Institute,  1981.  Autobiog¬ 
raphy  of  a  businessman  and  black  leader,  bom  in 
1920.  Also  includes  interviews  with  other  Chicago 
blacks. 

Ilivan,  Louis  A.  The  Autobiography  of  an  Idea.  New 
York:  American  Institute  of  Architects,  1924.  Often 
poetic  account  of  the  Chicago  architect's  intellectual 
growth.  Available  in  paperback:  Dover,  1956,  with 
an  Introduction  by  Ralph  Marlowe  Line. 

n  Doren,  Carl.  Three  Worlds.  New  York:  Harper,  1936. 
Set  in  Hope  and  Urbana,  Illinois,  and  New  York.  The 
first  section,  “An  Illinois  Boy-hood,”  was  later  pub¬ 
lished  separately  (1939). 

ight,  Frank  Lloyd.  An  Autobiography.  New  York:  Long¬ 
man’s,  Green,  1932;  rev.  and  expanded  edition;  New 
York:  Duell,  Sloan,  and  Pearce,  1943.  An  absorbing 
work;  set  primarily  in  Wisconsin  and  Chicago. 

:ondary  Sources 

nold,  Matthew.  “General  Grant.”  In  The  Last  Word.  The 
Complete  Works  of  Matthew  Arnold,  vol.  1  1 .  Ed.  by 
R.  H.  Super.  Ann  Arbor:  Univ.  of  Michigan  Press, 
1977.  Pp.  144-79. 

ly,  Robert  C.  Rediscoveries:  Literature  and  Place  in 
Illinois.  Urbana;  Univ.  of  Illinois  Press,  1982.  Discus¬ 
ses  Grierson’s  Valley  of  Shadows. 

hill,  Daniel  J.  Harriet  Monroe.  New  York:  Twayne,  1973. 

apin,  Helen  Geracimos.  “‘Chicagopolis’ — The  Double 
World  of  Harry  Mark  Petrakis.”  The  Old  Northwest, 
2  (1976),  401-13.  Includes  comments  on  Stelmark. 

user,  G.  Thomas.  “Two  Prophetic  Architects:  Louis 
Sullivan  and  Prank  Lloyd  Wright,”  American  Au¬ 
tobiography:  The  Prophetic  Mode .  Amherst:  Univ.  of 
Massachusetts  Press,  1979.  Pp.  120-47. 

ivis,  Allen  Freeman.  American  Heroine:  The  Life  and 
Legend  of  Jane  Addams.  New  York;  Oxford  Univ. 
Press,  1973. 


Dougherty,  James.  “Jane  Addams;  Culture  and  Imagina¬ 
tion.”  The  Yale  Review,  71  (1982),  363-79. 

Fetherling,  Doug.  The  Five  Lives  of  Ben  Hecht.  Toronto; 
Lester  and  Orpen,  1977. 

Flanagan,  John  T.  “A  Decade  of  Middlewestern  Autobio¬ 
graphy.”  Centennial  Review,  26  (1982),  1  15-33.  In¬ 
cludes  brief  general  comments  on  auto-biographies  by 
these  Illinois  figures:  John  M.  Stahl,  Theodore 
Dreiser,  Clarence  Darrow,  Mary  Hunter  Austin,  Floyd 
Dell,  Vincent  Sheean,  Edgar  Lee  Masters,  Harriet 
Monroe,  and  Eunice  Tietjens. 

Hallwas,  John  E.  “Albert  Britt’s  Memoir  of  a  Vanished 
Midwest,”  in  Western  Illinois  Heritage.  Macomb:  Il¬ 
linois  Heritage  Press,  1983.  Pp.  181-82. 

_ .  “Bob  Burdette’s  The  Drums  of  the  47th,”  in 

Western  Illinois  Heritage.  Macomb:  Illinois  Heritage 
Press.  1983.  Pp.  121-23. 

_ .  “The  Legend  of  Peter  Cartwright.”  Illinois 

Quarterly,  42  ( 1980),  5-11. 

_ .  “The  Problem  of  Unity  in  The  Valley  of 

Shadows.”  MidAmerica  VIII  (1981),  50-57. 

Hart,  John  E.  Floyd  Dell.  New  York:  Twayne,  1971. 

Hurt,  James.  “Walden  on  Halstead  Street;  Jane  Addams” 
Twenty  Years  at  Hull  House.”  Centennial  Review,  23 
(1979),  185-207. 

McPeely,  William  S.  Grant:  A  Biography.  New  York: 
Norton,  1981 . 

Menocal,  Narciso  G.  Architecture  as  Nature:  The  Transcen- 
dentalist  Idea  of  Louis  Sullivan.  Madison;  Univ.  of 
Wisconsin  Press,  1981. 

Nevens,  Allan.  “The  Autobiography.”  In  Allan  Nevin  on 
History  Ed.  by  Ray  Allen  Billington.  New  York; 
Scribner’s,  1975.  Pp.  236-46.  Discusses  Austin’s 
Earth  Horizon. 

Paul,  Sherman.  Louis  Sullivan,  an  Architect  in  American 
Thought.  Englewood  Cliffs,  N.J.:  Prentice-Hall, 
1962. 

Ravitz,  Abe  C.  Clarence  Darrow  and  the  American  Literary 
Tradition.  Cleveland:  The  Press  of  Western  Reserve 
Univ.,  1962. 

Simonson,  Harold  P.  Francis  Grierson.  New  York:  Twayne, 
1966.  Includes  an  extensive  study  of  Grierson’s  mas- 
terwork.  The  Valley  of  Shadows. 

Stone,  Albert  E.  Autobiographical  Occasions  and  Original 
Acts.  Phila.:  Univ.  of  Pennsylvania  Press,  1982.  In¬ 
cludes  a  discussion  of  Sullivan’s  autobiography. 

Wilson,  Edmund.  Patriotic  Gore.  New  York:  Oxford  Univ. 
Press,  1962.  Discusses  Grierson’s  Valley  of  Shadows 
and  Grant’s  Personal  Memoirs. 


I 


(O 

CJ1 


1 


w 

o 


(O 

CJ1 


) 


17 


Wrcnn,  John  H.,  and  Margaret  M.  Wrenn.  Ed}>ar  Lee  Mas¬ 
ters.  Boston:  Twayne.  1983. 

BKKJRAPHiES 

Primary  Sources 

Barnard,  Harry.  "Labile  Forgotten'' :  The  Life  and  Times  of 
John  Peter  AItgeld.  Indianapolis;  Bobbs-Merrill, 
1938.  Paperback  edition,  1962.  Widely  acclaimed. 

Beveridge,  Albert  J.  Abraham  Lincoln,  IH09-IH5H.  2  vols. 
Boston;  Houghton  Mifflin,  1928.  Unfinished,  but  a 
monumental  achievement. 

Brodie,  Fawn.  Nobody  Knows  My  History:  the  Life  oj  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Mormon  Prophet.  New  York:  Knopf,  1945. 
Revised  edition,  1971 .  The  first  fine  book  on  the  Mor¬ 
mons  and  still  the  most  probing  biography  of  Smith. 

Catton,  Bruce.  U.  S.  Grant  and  the  American  Military  Trad¬ 
ition.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1954.  Paperback  edition; 
Grosset  and  Dunlap,  1972.  Superb  short  biography. 

Dennet,  Tyler.  John  Hay:  From  Poetry  to  Politics.  New 
York:  Dodd,  Mead,  1933.  Won  the  Pulitzer  Prize  for 
biography. 

Hay,  John,  and  John  G.  Nicolay.  Abraham  Lincoln:  A  His¬ 
tory.  10  vols.  New  York:  Century  1890.  Abridged 
edition,  with  an  Introduction  by  Paul  M.  Angle:  Univ. 
of  Chicago  Press,  1966.  Well  researched;  a  great  work 
of  its  time. 

Herndon,  William  H.,  and  Jesse  W.  Weik.  Herndon's  Lin¬ 
coln.  3  vols.  Chicago;  Belford,  Clarke,  1889.  A  con¬ 
troversial,  significant  Lincoln  biography.  Available  in 
paperback:  Da  Capo  Press,  1983,  with  introductions 
by  Paul  M.  Angle  and  Henry  Steele  Commager. 

Johannsen,  Robert  W.  Stephen  A.  Douglas.  New  York:  Ox¬ 
ford  Univ.  Press,  1973.  Extensive,  insightful. 

Kennedy,  Eugene.  Himself:  The  Life  and  Times  of  Richard 
J .  Daley,  New  York:  Viking,  1978.  Fast-paced  narra¬ 
tive,  colorful  style. 

McFeely,  William  S.  Grant:  A  Biography.  New  York;  Nor¬ 
ton  1981.  Paperback  edition,  1982.  Won  the  Pulitzer 
Prize  for  biography. 

Martin,  John  Bartlow.  Adlai  Stevenson  of  Illinois.  Garden 
City,  N.Y.;  Doubleday,  1976.  Paperback  edition, 
1978.  Widely  acclaimed. 

_ .  Adlai  Stevenson  and  the  World.  Garden  City, 

N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1977.  Paperback  edition,  1978. 
Widely  acclaimed. 

Oates,  Stephen  B.  With  Malice  Toward  None:  The  Life  of 
Abraham  Lincoln. New  York;  Harper,  1977.  Superb 
biography;  high  literary  quality.  Available  in  paper¬ 
back:  New  American  Library,  1978. 


Randall,  James  G.  Lincoln,  the  President.  4  vols.  New 
York:  Dodd,  Mead,  1945-1955.  (Vol.  4  co-authoretj 
by  Richard  N.  Current.)  Won  the  Bancroft  and  Louba 
prizes. 

Sandburg,  Carl.  Abraham  Lincoln:  The  Prairie  Years.  I 
vols.  New  York:  Harcourt,  1926.  Combines  historica 
detail  and  mythic  perspective  in  a  beautifully  written 
widely  celebrated  work.  The  Prairie  Years  and  TIu 
War  Years  are  available  in  a  combined,  condenser 
paperback  version:  Harcourt,  1974. 

_ .  Abraham  Lincoln:  The  War  Years.  4  vob 

New  York:  Harcourt,  1939.  Won  the  Pulitzer  Priz( 
for  history. 

Stone,  Irving.  Clarence  Darrow  for  the  Defense.  Gardei 
City,  N.Y.;  Doubleday,  1941.  Excellent  work,  .\vail 
able  in  paperback:  New  American  Library  ,  1971. 

Thomas,  Benjamin  P.  Abraham  Lincoln:  A  Biography.  Ne\ 
York:  Knopf,  1952.  Paperback  edition,  1974.  Ver 
well  written;  this  and  the  Oates  biography  are  the  mo‘ 
widely  respected  one-volume  lives  of  Lincoln. 

Wendt,  Lloyd,  and  Herman  Kogan.  Lords  of  the  Levee:  Th 
Story  of  Bathhouse  John  and  Hinky  Dink.  Garde 
City,  N.Y.:  Garden  City,  1944.  Rpt.  as  Bosses  i 
Lusty  Chicago.  Bloomington;  Indiana  Univ.  Pres? 
1967,  with  an  Introduction  by  Paul  H.  Dougla 
(hardback  and  paperback).  Double  biography  c 
notorious  Chicago  politicians  "Bathhouse"  Joh 
Coughlin  and  Michael  “Hinky  Dink"  Kenna.  Use 
fictional  techniques. 

Secondary  Sources 

Barton,  William  E.  "The  Lincoln  of  the  Biographers 
Transactions  of  the  Illinois  State  Historical  Societ 
vol.  10,  1929.  Springfield:  Illinois  State  Historic 
Library,  1929.  Pp.  58-116.  Dated,  but  still  usefu 
Includes  an  annotated  bibliography  of  Lincoln  bii 
graphics. 

Carlisle,  John  C.  "Grant:  A  Biography."  In  MagilTs  Lite 
ary  Annual  1982.  Ed.  by  Frank  N.  Magill.  Englewo< 
Cliffs,  N.J.;  Salem  Press,  1982.  Pp.  338-42.  Essay-r 
view  of  McFeely's  Grant;  lists  other  reviews. 

Crowder,  Richard.  Carl  Sandburg.  New  York:  Twayn 
1964. 

Donald,  David.  Lincoln's  Herndon.  New  York:  Knof 
1948.  Very  perceptive  biography  of  Lincoln’s  bio 
rapher;  itself  a  fine  biographical  achievement. 

Durncll.  Hazel.  The  America  of  Carl  Sandburg.  Washin 
ton,  D.C.;  Univ.  Press  of  Washington.  D  C.  1965 

Gale,  Robert  I,.  John  Hay.  New  York;  Twayne.  1978. 

Hicken.  Victor.  “Sandburg  and  the  Lincoln  Biography: . 
Personal  View .  "  In  The  \'ision  of  This  Land.  Studt 


18 


of  Vachel  Lindsay,  Edgar  Lee  Masters,  and  Carl 
Sandburg.  Ed.  by  John  E.  Hallwas  and  Dennis  J. 
Reader.  Macomb;  Western  Illinois  University,  1976. 
Pp.  105-13. 

imb,  Anthony.  “Adlai  Stevenson  and  the  World.” /n  Mag- 
ill’s  Literary  Annual  1978.  Ed.  by  Frank  N.  Magill. 
Englewood  Cliffs,  N.J.;  Salem  Press,  1978.  Pp.  6-10. 
Essay-review  of  Martin’s  biography;  lists  other  re¬ 
views.  See  also  Magill’ s  Literary  Annual  1977,  Pp. 
12-16,  for  a  review  of  vol.  1 . 

:ely,  Mark,  Jr.  "Carl  Sandburg.”  In  Twentieth-Century 
American  Historians.  Dictionary  of  Literary  Bio¬ 
graphy,  vol.  17.  Ed.  by  Clyde  N.  Wilson.  Detroit; 
Gale  Research,  1983.  Pp.  378-82. 

wins,  Allan.  “Sandburg  as  Historian.”  Journal  of  the  Il¬ 
linois  State  Historical  Society',  45  (1952),  361-72. 

colay,  Helen,  “The  Writing  of  Abraham  Lincoln:  A  His¬ 
tory.”  Journal  of  the  Illinois  State  Historical  Society, 
42  (1949),  259-71.  On  Nicolay  and  Hay. 

ites,  Stephen  B."Carl  Sandburg’s  Lincoln.”  In  Our  Fiery 
Trial:  Abraham  Lincoln,  John  Brown,  and  the  Civil 
War  Era.  Amherst;  Univ.  of  Massachusetts  Press, 
1979.  Pp.  99-111. 

Neill,  Edward  H.  "The  Biographers’  Lincoln, ”/«  A  His¬ 
tory  of  American  Biography,  1800-1935.  New  York; 
Russell  and  Russell,  1935.  Pp.  119-54. 

nith,  John  David.  “James  G.  Randall.”  In  Twentieth- 
Century  American  Historians.  Dictionary  of  Literary 
Biography,  vol.  17.  Detroit;  Gale  Research,  1983. 
Pp.  373-77. 

lomas,  Benjamin  P.  Portrait  for  Posterity:  Lincoln  and 
His  Biographers.  New  Brunswick,  N.J.;  Rutgers 
Univ.  Press,  1947.  On  Nicolay  and  Hay,  Herndon 
and  Weik,  Sandburg,  Beveridge,  etc. 

lurman,  Kelly.  John  Hay  as  a  Man  of  Letters.  Reseda, 
Cal.;  Mojave  Brooks,  1974. 

ISTORICAL  WORKS 

imary  Sources 

igle,  Paul  M.  Bloody  Williamson:  A  Chapter  in  American 
Lawlessness.  New  York;  Knopf,  1952.  Vivid  account 
of  the  violence  in  Williamson  County  during  the 
1920s. 

— _ .  “Here  1  Have  Lived”:  A  History  of  Lincoln’ s 

Springfield.  Springfield;  Abraham  Lincoln  Associa¬ 
tion,  1935.  Available  in  paperback;  Abraham  Lincoln 
Book  Shop,  1971.  Highly  regarded  account  of  early 
Springfield. 

:echer,  Edward.  Narrative  of  Riots  at  Alton.  Alton,  IE.; 
G.  Holton,  1838.  On  the  murder  of  Elijah  Lovejoy. 


Paperback  edition.  Dutton,  1965,  with  an  excellent 
Introduction  by  Robert  Meridith. 

Bonney,  Edward.  The  Banditti  of  the  Prairies,  or  The  Mur¬ 
derer’s  Doom.  Chicago;  D.  B.  Cooke,  1856.  Two 
sensational  murder  cases  along  the  Mississippi  River 
by  the  detective  who  tracked  down  the  killers.  Modern 
edition;  Univ.  of  Oklahoma  Press,  1963,  with  a  fine 
Introduction  by  Philip  D.  Jordan. 

Calkins,  Earnest  E.  They  Broke  the  Prairie.  New  York; 
Scribner,  1937.  Vivid,  insightful  history  of  Gales¬ 
burg’s  first  100  years.  Available  in  paperback. 

Cromie,  Robert.  The  Great  Chicago  Eire.  New  York;  Mc¬ 
Graw-Hill,  1958.  Very  well  written  popular  history. 

Eby ,  Cecil .  “The  Disgraceful  Affair” :  The  Black  Hawk  War. 
New  York;  Norton,  1973.  Interesting,  insightful  nar¬ 
rative. 

Flanders,  Robert  Bruce.  Nauvoo:  Kingdom  on  the  Missis¬ 
sippi.  Urbana;  Univ.  of  Illinois  Press,  1965.  Paperback 
edition,  1975.  Thorough,  well-documented,  percep¬ 
tive  account. 

Ford,  Thomas.  A  History  of  Illinois.  Chicago;  S.  C.  Griggs, 
1854.  Perceptive,  opinionated,  colorful  early  history, 
partly  based  on  personal  experience. 

Gray,  James.  The  Illinois.  New  York;  Farrar,  1940.  Rivers 
of  America  series. 

Hansen,  Harry.  The  Chicago.  New  York;  Farrar,  1942. 
Rivers  of  America  series. 

Havighurst,  Walter.  The  Heartland:  Ohio,  Indiana,  Illinois. 
New  York;  Harper,  1965.  Well  written  popular  history 
of  the  region. 

Hicken,  Victor.  Illinois  in  the  Civil  War.  Urbana;  Univ.  of 
Illinois  Press,  1966.  Fine  account  of  an  exceedingly 
complex  subject. 

Howard,  Robert  P.  Illinois:  A  History  of  the  Prairie  State. 
Grand  Rapids,  Mich.;  Eerdmans,  1972.  Well  written; 
the  standard  one-volume  history. 

Kinzie,  Juliette.  Narrative  of  the  Massacre  at  Chicago,  Au¬ 
gust  15,  1812.  Chicago;  Ellis  and  Fergus,  1844. 
Biased  but  influential  account;  later  included  in  her 
personal  narrative,  Wau-Bun  (1856). 

Kirkland,  Joseph.  The  Story  of  Chicago.  2  vols.  Chicago; 
Dibble,  1891.  Notable  early  history  of  the  city. 

Lewis,  Lloyd,  and  Henry  Justin  Smith.  Chicago:  The  Hist¬ 
ory  of  Its  Reputation.  New  York;  Harcourt,  1929. 
Readable,  perceptive  account. 

Longstreet,  Stephen.  Chicago,  1860-1919.  New  York;  Mc¬ 
Kay,  1973.  Excellent  popular  history  of  Chicago’s 
middle  years. 

Masters,  Edgar  Lee.  The  Sangamon.  New  York;  Farrar, 
1942.  In  the  Rivers  of  America  series,  but  unusually 
autobiographical,  nostalgic,  and  lyrical. 


i 

I 


CJ1 


a 


o 

m 


(O 

CJl 


19 


Phalen,  James  M.  Sinissippi — a  Valley  under  a  Spell.  Wash¬ 
ington,  D.C.:  Association  of  Military  Surgeons,  1942. 
The  early  history  v)f  the  Rock  River  Valley;  includes 
a  fine  chapter  on  Black  Hawk’s  village,  Saukenuk. 

Taylor,  Samuel  W.  Nightfall  at  Nauvoo.  New  York:  Mac¬ 
millan,  1971.  Dramatic  best-seller;  uses  fictional 
techniques.  Paperback  edition;  Avon,  1973. 

Thomas,  Benjamin  P.  Lineoln' s  New  Salem.  Springfield: 
Abraham  Lincoln  Association,  1934.  Superb  account 
of  the  village  and  Lincoln’s  years  there. 

Secondary  Sources 

Hallwas,  John  E.  “The  Rhetoric  of  Community  History.”//; 
Selected  Papers  in  Illinois  History  I9HJ.  Ed.  by  Robert 
W.  McCluggage.  Springfield:  Illinois  State  Historical 
Society,  1984.  Forthcoming. 

Merideth,  Robert.  The  Politics  of  the  Universe:  Edward 
Beecher,  Abolition,  and  Orthodo.xy.  Nashville:  Van¬ 
derbilt  Univ.  Press,  1968. 

Reed,  Doris  M.  “Edward  Bonney,  Detective.”  The  Indiana 
University  Bookman,  (November,  1957),  5-17. 

Wrenn,  John  H.,  and  Margaret  M.  Wrenn.  Edgar  Lee  Mas¬ 
ters.  Boston:  Twayne,  1983. 

NATURE  WRITING 

Primary  Sources 

Dubkin,  Leonard.  Enchanted  Streets.  Boston;  Little, 
Brown,  1947.  Engaging  book  about  an  amateur 
naturalist  in  Chicago;  Dubkin’s  best  work. 

_ .  The  Murmur  of  Wings.  London:  Whittlesey 

House,  1944.  The  author’s  experiences  with  birds  in 
Chicago. 

_ .  The  White  Lady.  New  York:  Putnam’s,  1952. 

Observations  of  bats,  especially  a  white  bat,  in  the 
Chicago  area. 

Eifert,  Virginia  S.  Essays  on  Nature.  Springfield:  Illinois 
State  Museum,  1967.  A  posthumous,  paperback  col¬ 
lection  of  descriptive  essays  which  first  appeared  in 
The  Living  Museum.  Her  best  writing;  mostly  on  Il¬ 
linois. 

_ .  River  World:  Wildlife  of  the  Mississippi.  New 

York:  Dodd.  Mead,  1959.  Nature  observations  along 
the  entire  length  of  the  river. 

Madson,  John.  Where  the  Sky  Began.  Boston:  Houghton 
Mifflin.  1982.  The  natural  and  cultural  history  of  the 
American  tallgrass  prairie. 

Peattie,  Donald  Culross.  An  Almanac  for  Moderns.  New 
York:  Putnam.  1935.  A  year  of  brief,  daily  often  poetic- 


essays,  based  on  observations  at  Kennicott’s  Grove  j 
near  Chicago.  Paperback  edition:  David  R.  Godine,  ^ 
1980. 

_ .  A  Prairie  Grove.  New  York:  Simon  and 

Schuster,  1938.  Story  of  a  patch  of  land  near  Chicago; 
combines  nature  writing,  history  and  fiction. 

.Secondary  Sources 

Hallwas,  John  E.  “The  Achievement  of  Virginia  S.  Eifert." 
Journal  of  the  Illinois  State  Historical  ScKiety.  71 
(1978),  81-106. 

“Peattie,  Donald  Culross  1898-1964.”  Contemporary  Au¬ 
thors.  Ed.  by  Frances  C.  Locher.  Detroit:  Gale  Re¬ 
search.  1980.  vol.  102.  Pp.  411-12.  \ 

Robinson,  Orvetta  M.  The  Legacy  of  Virginia  S.  Eifert. 
Macomb:  Western  Illinois  L'niversitv  Library,  1981. 
Complete  bibliography,  with  an  introductory  essay  by 
John  E.  Hallwas.  ' 


DESCRIPTIONS  AND  STUDIES 

Primary  Sources 

Algren,  Nelson.  Chicago:  City  on  the  Make.  Garden  City. 
N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1951.  A  prose  poem;  a  Chicago 
classic.  The  1961  edition  has  an  "Epilogue."  Available 
in  paperback:  McGraw-Hill.  1983.  with  an  IntrtHluc-. 
tion  by  Studs  Terkel. 

Beck.  Frank  O.  Hohohemia.  Rindge.  N.H.:  Richard  B 
Smith.  1956.  Sketches  of  Chicago  people  and  placesi 
including  Skid  Row  residents. 

Brownell,  Baker.  Earth  is  Enough.  New  York:  Harper 
1933. A  descriptive-philosophical  work;  includes  re 
markable  sections  on  Chicago  and  Vandalia. 

_ .  The  Other  Illinois.  New  York:  Duell.  Sloan 

and  Pearce.  1958.  Vividly  characterizes  southern  II 
linois. 

Carter.  William.  Middle  BY.vt  Country  .  Boston:  Houghto 
Mifflin.  1975.  Very  well  written  account  of  the  rurt 
and  small-town  Mississippi  Valley;  includes  a  chapte 
on  Geneseo. 

Carwardine.  William  H.  The  Pullman  Strike.  Chicagt 
Charles  H.  Kerr.  1894.  Rpt.  Chicago:  Charles  H.  Ken 
1973.  with  an  Introduction  by  Virgil  J  Vogel.  lncisi\^ 
study  of  the  Pullman.  Strike  and  Pullman's  “modi  i 
town"  by  a  local  resident. 

Drake.  St.  Clair,  and  Horace  R.  Cayton.  Black  MetropoU: 
A  Study  of  Negro  Life  in  a  Northern  C  ity  .  New  1  orl 
Harcourt.  1945  Introduction  by  Richard  Wrigh 
Paperback  edition,  updated:  New  York:  Harper.  196. 
w  ith  an  additional  Introduction  by  E\erett  C.  Hughe- 


20 


Classic  study  of  urban  black  life,  focused  on  Chicago. 
Multi-faceted  perspective;  vivid  prose. 

ink.  Waldo.  Our  America.  New  York:  Liveright,  1919. 
Includes  and  excellent  description  of  Chicago. 

orge,  Walter  Lionel.  Hail  Columbia!  London:  Chapman 
and  Hall.  1923.  Includes  a  fine  description  of  Chicago. 

nsen,  Harry.  Midwest  Portraits.  New  York:  Harcourt, 
1923.  On  the  Chicago  literary  and  cultural  .scene;  in¬ 
cludes  sketches  of  Sandburg,  Hecht,  etc. 

rrell,  C.  William,  et  al.  Land  Between  the  Rivers:  The 
Southern  Illinois  Country.  Carbondale:  Southern  Il¬ 
linois  Univ.  Press,  1973.  Descriptive  and  historical 
account;  defines  the  region.  Well  illustrated. 

ford,  Joseph  P.  The  Talk  in  Vandalia.  Santa  Barbara, 
Cal.:  Center  for  the  Study  of  Democratic  Institutions, 
1964.  An  anatomy  of  Vandalia  and  its  rural  environs 
at  a  time  of  social  and  economic  change. 

iler,  Norman.  Miami  and  the  Sie^e  of  Chicago.  New 
York:  World,  1968.  On  the  Miami  and  Chicago  con¬ 
ventions  of  1968;  u.ses  novelistic  techniques. 

haske,  David.  Jubilee  Diary .  Peoria:  Ellis  Press,  1982. 
Descriptive-reflective-historical  account  set  at  Jubilee 
State  Park  near  Peoria. 

ith,  Henry  Justin.  Chicago:  A  Portrait.  New  York:  The 
Century.  1931.  A  lively  account  of  the  multi-faceted 
city. 

iet,  Julian,  Abroad  at  Home.  New  York:  Century,  1914. 
Includes  a  fine  account  of  early  twentieth-century 
Chicago. 

kel,  Louis  (“Studs”).  Division  Street:  America.  New 
York:  Pantheon.  1967.  Paperback  edition,  1982. 
Taped  and  edited  interviews  with  Chicagoans,  famous 
and  obscure.  Among  Terkel's  subsequent  books.  Hard 
Times  (1970),  Working  (1974),  and  American 
Dreams:  Lost  and  Found  ( 1980)  include  some  inter¬ 
views  with  Chicago  residents. 

)len,  Thorstein.  Theory  of  the  Leisure  Class.  New  York: 
Macmillan.  1899.  A  classic  of  American  economics, 
based  largely  on  observations  in  Chicago.  Available 
in  paperback:  New  American  Library,  1954,  with  an 
excellent  Introduction  by  C.  Wright  Mills;  Penguin. 
1979,  with  an  Introduction  by  Robert  Lekachman. 

ondary  Sources 

ithis,  Philip  H.  Norman  Mailer.  New  York:  Frederick 
Ungar,  1978. 

,  Martha  Heasley,  and  Wayne  Chatterton.  Nelson  Al- 
gren.  Boston:  Twayne,  1975. 

t,  James.  "The  Greatest  American  Satire:  Thorstein 
Veblen's  Theory  of  the  Leisure  Class."  Selected  Pa¬ 


pers  in  Illinois  Hi. story  19H4.  Ed.  by  Robert  W. 

McCluggage.  Springfield:  Illinois  State  Historical  So¬ 
ciety.  1985.  Forthcoming. 

Lerner,  Max.  “Editor’s  Introduction.”  The  Portable  Veblen. 
Ed.  by  Max  Lerner.  New  York:  Viking,  1948.  Pp. 
1-49. 

Merrill,  Robert.  Norman  Mailer.  Boston:  Twayne,  1978. 

ARTICLES  AND  ESSAYS  (Collections  only) 

Primary  Sources 

Allen,  John  W.  /r  Happened  in  Southern  Illinois.  Carbon- 
dale:  Southern  Illinois  Univ.  Press,  1968.  Short  arti¬ 
cles;  mostly  popular  history. 

- Legends  and  Lore  of  Southern  Illinois.  Car 

bondale:  Southern  Illinois  Univ.  Press,  1963.  Short 
articles;  mostly  popular  history. 

Baker,  Rick.  Baker’s  Best.  LeRoy,  Ill.:  The  Bakery,  1983. 
Reportorial-commentary  newspaper  pieces,  set  in  cen¬ 
tral  Illinois. 

Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Mr.  Dooley  at  His  Best.  Ed.  by  Elmer 
Ellis.  New  York:  Scribner’s,  1938.  Excellent  collec¬ 
tion  of  his  humorous  dialect  essays. 

- Mr.  Dooley’s  Chicago.  Ed.  by  Barbara  C. 

Schaaf.  Garden  City,  N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1977.  Very 
well-edited  collection;  half  commentary. 

- Mr.  Dooley  on  Ivry thing  and  Ivrybody .  Ed.  by 

Robert  Hutchinson.  New  York:  Dover,  1963. 

- -  The  World  of  Mr.  Dooley.  Ed.  by  Louis  Filler. 

New  York:  Collier,  1962.  Good  Introduction  by  Filler. 

Field,  Eugene.  The  Writings  in  Prose  and  Verse  of  Eugene 
Field.  12  vols.  New  York:  Scribner,  1898-1901. 

Hallwas,  John  E.  Western  Illinois  Heritage.  Macomb:  Il¬ 
linois  Heritage  Press,  1983.  Historical  narratives; 
some  reflective  essays;  defines  the  region. 

Hecht,  Ben.  A  Thousand  and  One  Afternoons  in  Chicago. 
Chicago:  Covici-McGee,  1922.  Sketches  and  tales  of 
Chicago;  Preface  by  Henry  Justin  Smith. 

Klein,  Jerry.  Played  in  Peoria.  Peoria:  Kickapoo  Press, 
1980.  Mostly  impressionistic  essays  on  central  Illinois 
towns;  often  poetic. 

Royko,  Mike.  /  May  Be  Wrong,  but  I  Doubt  It.  Chicago: 
Regnery.  1968.  Like  the  four  books  that  follow,  a 
collection  of  his  Chicago  news-  paper  columns;  satir¬ 
ical.  Royko  won  the  Pulitzer  Prize  for  commentary  in 
1973. 

- Like  I  Was  Sayin’ .  New  York:  Dutton,  1984. 

- -  Sez  Who?  Sez  Me.  New  York:  Dutton,  1982. 

Available  in  paperback:  Warner  books,  1983. 


I 


o 

o 


n 


CO 

CJ1 


21 


_ ,  Slats  Grohnik  and  Some  Other  Friends.  New 

York;  Dutton,  1973.  Paperback  edition:  l\)pular  [li¬ 
brary,  1976. 

_ .  Up  Against  It.  Chicago:  Regnery,  1967. 

Sandburg,  Carl.  The  Chicago  Face  Riots.  New  York:  Har- 
court,  1919.  Introduction  by  Walter  Lippmann,  New 
edition,  1969,  with  a  Preface  by  Ralph  McGill. 

Snyder,  John  Francis.  John  Francis  Snyder:  Selected  Writ¬ 
ings.  Ed.  by  Clyde  C.  Walton.  Springfield,  Illinois 
State  Historical  Society,  1962.  Includes  a  biographical 
essay  by  Phyllis  E.  Connolly.  Historical  writings. 

Wilkie,  Franc  B.  Walks  about  Chicago,  and  Army  and  Mis¬ 
cellaneous  Sketches.  Chicago:  Church,  Goodman  and 
Donnelly,  1869.  2nd  ed.;  Chicago:  Belford  Clarke, 
1882.  Humorous  newspaper  essays. 

Williams,  Kenny  and  Bernard  Duff'ey,  eds.  Chicago’s 
Public  Wits.  Baton  Rouge:  Louisiana  State  Univ. 
Press,  1983.  Collection  of  Chicago  newspaper  humor, 
1840s  to  the  present,  with  commentaries.  Excellent. 

Secondary  Sources. 

Bander,  Edward  J.  Mr.  Dooley  and  Mr.  Dunne:  The  Literary 
Life  of  a  Chicago  Catholic.  Charlottesville,  Va.: 
Michie,  1981.  Discussion  of  Dunne,  selected  pass¬ 
ages,  and  an  extensive  bibliography. 

Conrow,  Robert.  Field  Days:  The  Life,  Times,  and  Reputa¬ 
tion  of  Eugene  Field .  New  York:  Scribner,  1974.  Very 
readable,  well  illustrated  study. 

DeMuth,  James.  Small  Town  Chicago:  The  Comic  Perspec¬ 
tive  of  Finley  Peter  Dunne,  George  Ade,  Ring  Lord¬ 
lier.  Port  Washington,  N.Y.:  Kennikat,  1980. 


Dennis,  Charles  H.  Eugene  Field's  Creative  Years.  New 
York;  Doubleday,  1924. 

Duffey,  Bernard.  “Humor,  Chicago  Style.”  In  The  Comic 
Imagination  in  American  Literature.  Ed.  by  Louis  D, 
Rubin,  Jr.  New  Brunswick,  N.J.:  Rutgers  Univ.  Press. 
1973.  Pp.  207-16.  On  Field,  Dunne,  Ade,  and  Lard- 
ner. 

Ellis,  Elmer.  Mr.  Dooley' s  America:  A  Life  of  Finley  Petei 
Dunne.  New  York:  Knopf,  1941. 

Fanning,  Charles.  Finley  Peter  Dunne  and  Mr.  Dooley:  TIu 
Chicago  Years.  Lexington:  Univ.  Press  of  Kentucky 
1978. 

Hallwas,  John  E.  "The  Regional  Essays  of  Jerry  Klein.' 
Western  Illinois  Regional  Studies,  1  (1978),  65-85. 

Kaul,  A.  J.  “Ben  Hecht.”  In  American  Newspaper  Jour 
nalists,  1901-1925.  Dictionary  of  Literary  Biograph\ 
vol.  25.  Ed.  by  Perr)  J.  Ashley.  Detroit:  Gale  Re 
search,  1984.  Pp.  116-24. 

McPhaul ,  John  J .  Deadlines  and  Monkeyshines:  The  Fablei 
World  of  Chicago  Journalism.  Englewood  Cliffs 
N.J.:  Prentice-Hall,  1962.  Covers  1833-1941. 

“Royko  Mike  1932-.”  In  Contemporary  Authors.  Ed.  b 
Frances  C.  Locher.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1980 
Vols.  89-92,  Pp.  443-44. 

Somers,  Paul  P.,  Jr.  "Mike  Royko:  .Midwestern  Satirist. 
MidAmerica  X  (1983),  177-86. 

Williams,  Kenny  J.  “From  Carl  Pretzel  to  Slats  Grobnik:  / 
Study  of  Chicago  Humor."  MidAmerica  X  (1 983 1 
152-76.  Covers  mid-nineteenth  century  to  Mik 
Royko. 


11' 1- 


II.  FICTION  TO  1915 
by  Robert  Bray 


INTRODUCTION 

The  all-time  best-seller  of  Illinois  literature,  fiction  or 
lerwise,  is  a  book  that  many  Illinois  readers  probably 
/en’t  heard  of.  We  wouldn’t  be  surprised  to  learn  that 
prize  belongs  to,  say.  Spoon  River  Anthology,  or  even 
Upton  Sinclair’s  notorious  story  of  the  Chicago  meat- 
;king  industry.  The  Jungle.  These  titles  are,  after  all, 
tified  Illinois  classics,  have  been  so  for  more  than  half 
entury.  and  are  in-print  and  still  being  read  today.  But 
terms  of  sheer  numbers  of  copies  Spoon  River  and  The 
igle  are  nowhere  near  the  leader,  a  religious  novel  called 
His  Steps,  by  the  Rev.  Charles  M.  Sheldon  of  Topeka, 
nsas.  in  His  Steps  (subtitled  “What  Would  Jesus  Do?’’) 
’an  as  a  “serial  sermon’’  delivered  Sunday  after  Sunday 
he  Central  Congregational  Church  of  Topeka.'  The  idea 
s  to  keep  the  congregation  coming  back  by  leaving  them 
iging  from  week  to  week.  The  ploy  was  a  success,  as 
s  the  book  Sheldon  put  together  from  the  novel-.sermons: 
)earing  in  1897  (with  a  Chicago  imprint:  the  Advance 
Wishing  Co.),  In  His  Steps  was  an  immediate  sensation, 

1  has  never  since  been  out-of-print,  compiling  sales  of 
re  than  8,000,000  copies  by  the  mid-1960s.  ‘  Indeed,  of 
the  books  to  be  mentioned  in  this  essay  on  Illinois  fiction, 
15-1915,  In  His  Steps  is  one  of  the  easiest  to  obtain 
ay — what  with  the  millions  of  copies  in  circulation  and 
eral  editions  in  print  and  cheaply  available  from  religious 
Alishers. 

But  In  His  Steps  considered  as  Illinois  literature  is 
adoxical;  the  most  popular  book  “about”  Illinois  isn’t 
lely  known  in  the  state,  nor  does  it  depend  much  on  its 
nois  setting  for  effect.  Were  we  to  read  In  His  Steps  for 
at  it  contains  of  palpable  Illinois,  we  should  read  in  vain. 
:e  most  books  with  ideological  aims  (in  this  case  the 
irge  to  Americans  to  emulate  Christ  in  all  the  ethical 
ngs  of  everyday  life).  In  His  Steps  is  set  in  no  particular 
ce.  And  given  the  novel’s  didactic  purpose,  local  evoca- 
is  would  be  more  a  matter  of  narrative  clutter  than  clarity. 

Richly  cultivated  local  color,  we  need  to  be  reminded, 
riainly  a  modern  literary  phenomenon.  Most  of  the  popular 
h  century  genres  treat  place  as  irrelevant,  and  this  is  true 
:n  in  historical  romances,  which  we  might  expect  to  revel 
he  particulars  of  the  environments  peopled  by  their  out- 
;d  heroes  and  historical  personages — New  Salem  or  Fort 
arborn.  Old  Kaskaskia  or  Haymarket,  for  example,  to 
ne  a  few  of  Illinois’  high  cultural  places.  What  we  get 
Illinois  in  Sheldon’s  inspirational  novel,  however,  is  a 
idescript  downstate  town  called  “Raymond”  and  a 
icago  that  we  know  to  be  a  city  only  because  it  appears 
ae  dirty  and  crowded.  And  while  In  His  Steps  is  extreme 
ts  suppression  of  the  sense  of  place  (Sheldon  was  writing 
HI  Topeka  and  writing  /b/'  the  world)  it  is  closer  to  the 
-modern  norm  than  we  might  think.  Though  critics  have 


often  treated  In  His  Steps  more  as  culture  than  as  literature, 
it  is  instructive  to  note  that  the  book  exhibits  the  two  car¬ 
dinal  features  of  19th  century  American  popular  fiction; 
it  is  a  romance  and  is  informed  with  idealism.  Sheldon’s 
audience  would  have  had  no  difficulty  in  “placing” 
the  novel,  but  ironically  their  cues  didn’t  include  a  developed 
Illinois  locale. 

Hence  to  understand  Illinois  as  a  literary  setting  in  the 
19th  century,  we  must  first  broaden  our  definition:  “no  place 
in  particular”  can  be  anywhere  and  everywhere.  The  local 
town  becomes  every  town,  our  town,  and  the  universal  civic 
structure.  This  is  the  tendency,  with  some  crucial  exceptions, 
in  novels  of  ideas  and  novels  of  political  and  social  reform 
(of  which  In  His  Steps  is  one).  Or,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
historical  romance,  “place”  becomes  so  many  stage  props 
for  the  dramatization  of  elemental  adventure  and  lots  and 
lots  of  talk.  Similarly  in  sentimental  romances  and  most 
comedies  of  manners:  the  characters  must  converse,  make 
love,  win  or  lose  the  lady  or  gentleman  somewhere,  and 
Illinois  is  as  good  a  place  as  any,  better  than  most. 

Only  in  two  genres  is  the  sense  of  place  important  to 
the  narrative  purpose.  One  is  what  I  call  “genre  paintings” — 
novels  deliberately  full  of  homely  social  history,  sympathet¬ 
ically  rendered  folkways,  and  a  localized  setting  that  is 
usually  rural  and  glorying  in  the  fact.  Titles  in  this  class  are 
rare  in  Illinois.  The  other  is  the  19th  century’s  chief  "high¬ 
brow”  type,  the  realistic  character  study,  which  studies  the 
individual  in  relation  to  environment  (in  naturalistic 
novels — a  sub-class — the  environment  is  usually  urban, 
dark,  and  overmastering;  in  realism,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
individual  has  a  chance  at  a  “synergistic”  accomodation  with 
his  or  her  surroundings).  Realism  was  the  literary  philosophy 
of  William  Dean  Howells  and  Henry  James,  both  of  whom 
exercised  tremendous  influence  on  their  Illinois  contem¬ 
poraries.  As  we  shall  see,  the  very  greatest  Illinois  literature 
of  the  period  was  the  Chicago  realistic  novel,  1895-1905. 

The  essay,  then,  is  a  highly  selective  survey  of  19th 
century  Illinois  fiction,  loosely  organized  according  to  genre; 
the  historical  romance  (including  the  sentimental  romance), 
“genre  paintings,”  the  comedy  of  manners  (romantic  com¬ 
edy),  and  the  realistic  character  study.  Most  of  the  featured 
texts  are  novels,  though  of  course  other  sorts  of  fiction 
flourished  in  Illinois  in  the  19th  century — sketches  and  vig¬ 
nettes,  short  stories  and  tales,  and  fictionalized  memoirs. 
Readers  are  invited  to  consult  the  “Fiction  to  1915  Annotated 
Bibliography”  for  examples  of  these  other  varieties  of  Illinois 
fiction.  And  for  the  hundreds  of  titles  not  discussed  here  or 
included  in  the  bibliography,  readers  should  refer  to  the 
definitive  listing  of  Illinois  fiction:  Illinois!  Illinois!,  com¬ 
piled  by  Thomas  Kilpatrick  and  Patsy-Rose  Hoshiko.  Il¬ 
linois!  Illinois!  is  indispensable  to  the  study  of  Illinois  liter¬ 
ature,  and  I  have  relied  on  it  considerably  in  choosing  texts 
for  discussion.  Most  of  the  books  treated  below  belong  to 
the  vast  literary  underclass  called  “popular.”  I  offer  no  apol¬ 
ogy  for  this.  Literary  history  has  not  traditionally  been  the 
history  of  reading,  but  perhaps  it  should  be  more  .so;  we 
need  to  study  what  has  been  popularly  read  before  we  can 
know  with  authority  what  deserves  to  be  remembered. 


;  I 

! 

I 

I 

I 

f 

i 

1 1  < 


I' 


w 

CJ 


1 


23 


♦ 


2.  ROMANCINC;  ILLINOIS  IIISTORV 

There  have  been  two  great  ages  of  the  historical  ro¬ 
mance  in  America,  and  Illinois  has  played  an  important  part 
in  both.  The  first,  1820  to  1860,  was  the  heyday  of  James 
Fenimore  Cooper  (“The  American  Scott”)  and  a  host  of 
followers,  who  whetted  an  American  appetite  for  home¬ 
grown  adventure  novels  that  remains  keen  today.  Cooper's 
Leiitherstocking  Saga  (1823-41 )  established  one  major  con¬ 
cern  of  the  ante-bellum  historical  novel,  the  myth  of  the 
American  wilderness  and  its  hero,  the  frontiersman;  the 
novels  of  Cooper’s  contemporaries,  on  the  other  hand  (such 
as  Robert  Montgomery  Bird’s  Nick  of  the  Woods.  1837), 
tended  to  emphasize  the  violence  and  savagery  of  the  fron¬ 
tier — all  the  Indians’  fault,  of  course.  Much  of  the  earlier 
Illinois  historical  fiction  is  of  this  latter  type,  anathematizing 
all  Indians  without  showing  the  least  understanding  of  the 
various  tribal  cultures  in  the  state  (one  of  the  best-known 
early  tales  of  white-lndian  enmity  belongs  to  Illinois  litera¬ 
ture,  James  Hall’s  “The  Indian  Hater,”  in  his  collection. 
Legends  of  the  West,  1832;  reprinted  in  Seven  Stories, 
1975 — see  bibliography  for  details). 

Books  from  the  second  era  of  the  historical  romance 
(roughly  from  1890-1920)  are  markedly  more  sentimental, 
“genteel”  and  nostalgic  than  their  predecessors — generally 
short  on  history  and  long  on  romance.  American  culture 
was  by  1900  sufficiently  far  from  the  unsettling  actualities 
of  the  frontier  to  take  such  a  view.  But  the  popularity  of 
the  genre  at  the  turn-of-the-century  was  greater  than  ever. 
According  to  Alice  Payne  Hackett,  an  authority  on  best 
sellers,  historical  romances  constituted  “America’s  favorite 
reading  all  through  the  189()’s  and  the  early  20th  century”' 
And  between  1902  and  1920  there  were  three  such  novels 
on  the  best  seller  lists  set  entirely  or  partly  in  Illinois:  Emer¬ 
son  Hough’s  The  Mississippi  Bubble  in  1902  (John  Law’s 
great  trading  and  land  speculation  scheme  in  the  Mississippi 
Valley,  ca.  1720);  Winston  Churchill’s  The  Crossing  in 
1904  (George  Rogers  Clark’s  exploits  in  Illinois  during  the 
Revolution);  and  Irving  Bacheller's  A  Man  for  the  Ages  in 
1920  (Lincoln’s  New  Salem). ^ 

We  can  see  then  that  the  Illinois  County  of  the  late 
18th  and  early  19th  centuries  attracted  the  imaginations  of 
the  romancers.  “Illinois  before  it  was  Illinois"  had  the  right 
combination  of  wilderness  and  hostile  Indians,  political  an¬ 
tagonism  and  intrigue  with  the  British,  the  lingering  exoti¬ 
cism  of  a  declining  French  inlluence,  and  frequent  occasions 
for  military  glory  (the  Revolution  and  the  War  of  1812). 
After  statehood  there  were  the  Black  Hawk  War,  the  lurid 
drama  of  Mormonism,  and  the  advent  of  Lincoln  to  keep 
the  novelists  interested.  Though  nearly  all  of  these  books 
are  today  out  of  print,  their  former  popularity  insures  the 
survival  of  copies  in  used  book  stores  and  in  public  and 
university  libraries.  Moreover,  from  the  perspective  of  a 
teacher,  Illinois  historical  romances  make  a  good  subject: 
students  are  after  all  citizens  of  Illinois,  no  matter  how 
indistinct  their  sense  of  its  history,  and  the  two  literary 
archetypes  behind  the  historical  novels,  the  adventure  story 
and  the  romance,  continue  to  be  the  most  popular  reading 


of  high  school  and  college  men  and  women. 

Among  the  earlier  subjects,  the  Fort  Dearborn  massacn 
of  1812  was  (not  surprisingly)  a  recurring  interest.  Even  ai 
mid-century  Chicagoans  were  already  struck  by  the  differ] 
ence  between  their  burgeoning  city  and  the  swampy  militar' 
outpost  of  a  generation  before.  And  by  1900,  with  thousand 
of  people  trodding  daily  on  the  old  hallowed  ground  tha 
had  been  Ft.  Dearborn,  irony  had  changed  to  wonder.  Th 
classic  account,  Juliette  Kinzie’s  Narrative  of  the  Massacr 
at  Chicago  ( 1 844;  later  reprinted  in  her  autobiography,  Wau 
Bun,  1856)  is  not  fiction  but  a  species  of  narrative  history 
That  leaves  John  Richardson’s  Hardscrabble  (1850)  an 
Wau-Nan-Gee  (1852)  as  two  of  the  earliest  novelistic  treat 
ments  of  the  bloodbath.  Both  books  have  a  good  deal  c 
historical  fact  and  close  description,  but  are  as  sanguinar 
as  any  contemporary  spaghetti  western  and  are  framed  in 
heavy  and  ornate  gilding  of  romance.  The  same  stage-st 
was  dusted  off  fifty  years  later  by  the  popular  Chicago  write 
Randall  Parrish  in  his  When  Wilderness  Was  King  (1904 
The  novel  vividly  pictures  the  events  leading  up  to  the  maj 
sacre,  while  continuing  the  tradition  of  representing  the  Ir 
dians  assembled  before  the  Fort  as  devils  incarnate.  Parris 
occasionally  paints  “landscapes”  in  the  narrative,  includin 
this  memorable  one  seen  through  the  hero's  eyes  on  th: 
fateful  August  12th  when  soldiers  and  civilians  marched  oi 
of  Fort  Dearborn  to  their  deaths: 

How  vast  the  distances  appeared  through  that 
clear,  sun-illumined  atmosphere,  and  how  pro¬ 
nounced  and  distinctive  were  the  varied  colors 
spread  to  the  full  vista  of  the  eye,  contrasts  of 
shine  and  shadow  no  human  brush,  however 
daring,  would  venture  to  depict  on  canvas.  A 
primitive  land  this,  idealized  by  distance,  vast 
in  its  wide,  sweeping  plains,  its  boundless  sea, 
its  leagues  of  glistening  sand,  and.  bending  over 
all,  the  deepest,  darkest  arch  of  blue  that  ever 
mirrored  so  fair  a  picture  of  the  wilderness.' 

There  is  the  requisite  minimum  of  honest  history  in  Win 
Wilderness  Was  King,  but  the  characters  keep  try  ing  to  pu; 
events  aside  so  they  can  get  on  with  the  romance.  Tl 
attitude  toward  history  is  summed  up  in  the  phrase  “A  prim 
tive  land  this,  idealized  by  distance.”  which  could  serve  . 
a  motto  for  the  way  later  romancers  looked  at  old  lllinoi 
Indeed,  When  Wilderness  Was  King  is  the  epitome  of  tl 
“second  era”  historical  romance  w  ith  an  Illinois  setting:  re; 
it  and  you've  got  the  type.  (Incidentally.  1  recommend  th 
book  to  look  at  perhaps  even  more  than  to  read,  for  it  is 
splendid  example  of  tum-of-the-century  commercial  boo 
making  from  a  Chicago  publisher  (McClurg):  quality  d 
ckled  paper,  good  letterpress  work,  color  illustrations,  ai 
wood-block  decorations  at  the  chapter  heads.). 

Along  with  the  Ft.  Dearborn  massacre,  the  Black  Hav 
War  of  1 832  was  popular  w  ith  the  later  romancers,  no  dou 
because  of  the  involvement  of  two  of  Illinois  greatest  trag 
heroes:  the  Sac  chief  himself,  who  was  increasingly  se< 
as  a  wronged  and  noble  savage,  and.  ot  course.  Abraha 


24 


icoln.  Yet  one  of  the  most  interesting  treatments  of  the 
lian  is  not  a  conventional  historical  romance.  William 
rton’s  The  Prairie  Schooner  (1900)  emphasizes  the 
'thms  and  folkways  of  everyday  life,  avoiding  the  ersatz 
itility  and  forced  circumstances  that  plague  novels  such 
A  Knight  of  the  Wilderness,  (1909)  by  Oliver  Gale  and 
rriet  Wheeler,  and  Spanish  Peggy  (1899),  by  Mary 
rtwell  Catherwood.  Catherwood  was  a  popular  writer 
o  lived  for  many  years  in  Hoopeston  (Vermilion  County) 
i  made  romantic  use  of  Illinois  history  in  much  of  her 
rk — from  17th  century  stories  of  the  French  (Old  Kaskas- 
,  1893,  is  one  of  her  best)  to  town  building  in  the  later 
:h  century  (The  Spirit  of  an  Illinois  Town,  1897).  Cather- 
od’s  novels  and  stories  have  not  held  up  well,  primarily 
:ause  of  their  hot-house  romanticism,  but  she  deserves 
dit — and  a  readership — for  being  the  rarity  she  was  at 
time:  a  professional  woman  writer  who  sustained  a  career 
;ed  largely  on  Illinois  materials. 

Other  uses  of  Lincolniana  include  Irving  Bacheller’s 
Man  for  the  Ages  (already  mentioned)  and  The  Romance 
Gilbert  Holmes  (1901),  by  Marshall  Kirkman.  In  Gilbert 
Imes  Lincoln  plays  a  cameo  role  (as  does  Black  Hawk) 
the  adventure  story  of  a  young  boy  who  seems  to  spend 
best  years  of  his  youth  on  the  run  from  villainy  and 
iger  in  western  Illinois  during  the  1830s.  The  novel  is  a 
mine  curiosity,  full  of  Dickensian  sentiment  and  local 
or.  The  evocation  of  the  land  is  Edenic,  every  prospect 
asing  and  man  the  only  blemish: 

...Nature’s  aptitude  for  grouping  the  beauties 
of  her  abundant  harvest  found  material  with 
which  to  work  her  will  unvexed  by  man.  The 
great  prairies,  looped  together  or  apart,  formed 
natural  parks,  interspersed  throughout  their 
length  and  breadth  with  quiet  lakes  and  still¬ 
running  streams,  the  whole  fringed  about  with 
slumbering  forests  filled  to  the  edge  with  every 
kind  of  foliage  that  could  attract  the  eye  or 
engage  the  mind.  This  grouping  of  forest  and 
lawn,  separate  yet  forever  together,  blending 
and  scintillating  in  the  sweet  air,  filled  the 
heart  of  the  traveler  with  the  peace  and  restful¬ 
ness  that  only  the  quiet  of  the  country  can 
afford.  Man’s  presence  here,  I  thought,  as  I 
looked  forward  on  the  road  which  scarred  the 
face  of  the  grassy  plain  as  if  cut  with  a  whip, 
can  only  disfigure,  not  help  it  in  any  way." 

le  keynote  here  is  nostalgia  for  the  lost  Illinois  garden,  a 
;me  that  was  to  have  its  finest  expression  in  Francis  Grier- 
n’s  The  Valley  of  Shadows  (see  below),  with  which  Gilbert 
limes  has  much  in  common  (both  books  are  narrated  by 
ing  men  looking  back  at  their  precocious  boyhoods,  both 
lebrate  rural  Illinois  life,  and  both  have  a  mystical  sense 
the  local  landscape).  The  evocation  above — for  it  cannot 
called  a  description — is  of  the  land  along  Mauvaise  Terre 
eek,  west  of  Jacksonville,  the  part  of  Morgan  County 
lere  Kirkman  grew  up,  and  if  the  scene  ever  looked  this 


idyllic,  we  can  only  lament  that  it  doesn’t  look  so  now. 
And  even  from  Kirkman ’s  standpoint  in  190(> — he  was  a 
railroad  executive  for  the  Northwestern  in  Chicago — the 
“road  which  scarred  the  face  of  the  grassy  plain  like  a  whip’’ 
was  a  harbinger  of  change:  Illinois  would  soon  be  an  urban 
industrial  society,  and  the  disfigurement  of  the  landscape 
complete.  Illinois’  “golden  age”  was  over  and  had  to  be 
“idealized  by  distance”  to  be  recreated  at  all. 

The  plot  of  Gilbert  Holmes  is  credible,  if  relentlessly 
episodic,  until  the  end,  when  we  learn  that  young  Gilbert’s 
childhood  sweetheart,  now  his  betrothed,  is  not  a  child  of 
the  Illinois  prairies  but  a  long-lost  English  countess  (or 
duchess,  or  something).  Evidently  Kirkman  can’t  help  sur¬ 
rendering  thus  abjectly  to  what  he  takes  to  be  the  demands 
of  romance,  though  in  fact  a  book  that  has  been  for  more 
than  400  pages  a  picaresque  adventure  requires  no  such 
ending.  And  young  Gilbert  certainly  doesn’t  need  what 
Kirkman  contrives:  on  the  next-to-last  page  he  leaves  for 
England  with  his  beloved  “Lady  Constance"  and  comes 
“near  abandoning  my  country  for  theirs”  (p.  424).  The  Ro¬ 
mance  of  Gilbert  Holmes  remains  a  channing  and  memorable 
novel,  but  the  quarrel  between  its  homely  Illinois  soul  and 
the  costuming  and  makeup  of  romance  keeps  it  out  of  the 
first  rank  of  the  state’s  literature. 

As  the  20th  century  came  on,  the  historical  romance 
gradually  gave  way  to  the  just  plain  historical  novel — partly 
from  a  decline  in  the  older  type’s  popularity,  partly  because 
the  modernist  prejudice  against  romantic  plotting  changed 
the  priorities  of  historical  fiction.  The  new  emphasis  was 
decidedly  on  history.  By  the  time  of  Harold  Sinclair’s  Amer¬ 
ican  Years  (1938),  it  was  possible  to  write  a  historical  novel 
that  not  only  ignored  romance  but  entirely  lacked  a  conven¬ 
tional  plot.  In  American  Years  the  town  of  Everton 
(Bloomington)  is  the  protagonist,  and  the  only  thing  resembl¬ 
ing  romance  is  the  adventure  of  town-building.  A  decade 
or  so  earlier,  Edgar  Lee  Masters,  who  was  nationally  iden¬ 
tified  with  Illinois  writing  from  Spoon  River  Anthology 
( 1915)  on,  was  working  on  a  series  of  novels  that  borrowed 
liberally  from  the  state’s  mid- 19th  century  social  and  polit¬ 
ical  history.  Perhaps  the  most  ambitious  of  these  was  Chil¬ 
dren  of  the  Marketplace  (1922),  a  sometimes  ponderous 
story  (while  not  a  romance,  it  has  a  protagonist  imbued  with 
“seeker-after-truth”  romanticism  and  world- weariness) 
which  is  redeemed  by  its  evocations  of  life  in  Jacksonville 
and  Chicago,  1830-1860,  and  by  its  compelling  portrait  of 
Stephen  Douglas,  surely  one  of  the  best  in  American  histor¬ 
ical  fiction  (for  once,  Lincoln  is  kept  mostly  off  the  Illinois 
stage:  his  name  isn’t  mentioned  in  the  novel  until  page  386J. 
Masters  was  far  from  being  a  great  novelist,  but  neither  was 
he  a  one-book  wonder.  We  need  to  move  beyond  Spoon 
River  to  the  rest  of  his  work.  Children  of  the  Marketplace 
is  a  good  place  to  start. 

3.  “REAL”  RURAL  LIFE 

The  books  I’m  calling  “genre  paintings”  are  the  Currier 
and  Ives  prints  of  19th  century  American  literature.  Though 


25 


most  of  them  have  love  stories  to  tell,  they  are  not  historical 
or  sentimental  romances.  And  though  they  all  take  what 
seems  to  us  today  as  a  naive  and  romantic  view  of  agrarian 
and  small-town  life,  they  were  often  read  as  “realistic”  por¬ 
trayals  of  their  subjects.  But  most  of  all  “genre  paintings” 
are  unabashed  celebrations  of  American  democracy.  They 
tend  to  glorify  childhood,  nature,  and  rural  life  in  the  west — 
all  at  the  expense  of  the  east,  the  city,  and  the  over-civilized. 
Their  tone  is  almost  always  positive  (though  there  are  some 
pungent  satires)  and  only  a  little  condescending  to  the 
homely  materials:  politics,  religion,  farming,  homemaking, 
folkways,  and  so  on,  all  rendered  in  what  James  Hart  has 
termed  a  mild  “realism  of  the  b’gosh  sort.”’ 

But  genre  painting  wasn't  always  rural.  Chicago,  with 
its  ethnic  neighborhoods  and  enclaves,  ottered  a  marvelous 
range  of  the  sort  of  circumscribed  communities — preserving 
language  and  folkways  against  the  well-nigh  irresistible 
forces  of  urban  sprawl  and  “Americanization — needed  tor 
genre  sketches.  Only  one  example  can  be  mentioned  here, 
but  it’s  a  good  one:  James  Corrothers’  The  Black  Cat  Club 
(1902).  Subtitled  “Negro  humor  and  folklore,”  The  Black 
Cat  Club  is  a  medley  of  poetry,  jokes  and  sketches,  osten¬ 
sibly  recording  the  weekly  antic  proceedings  of  a  group  of 
hard-drinking,  -talking,  and  -fighting  Chicago  black  men. 
Their  leader  is  the  unofficial  poet-laureate  of  the  “levee”, 
Sandy  Jenkins  (Dr.  Jenkins  to  his  public),  whose  dialect 
doggerel  and  spontaneous  speechifying  never  fail  to  win  the 
applause  of  the  club  members.  For  his  readers,  however, 
Carrothers  edged  the  folk  and  street  humor  with  satire,  the 
barbs  aimed  at  educated  middle-class  blacks  like  himsell: 

I  knowed  a  cullud  graddiate  once  'at  wuz  'lected 
president  uv  a  white  literary  society — an’  he 
went  right  Torn  one  faintin’  fit  into  anothah!  I 
wuz  dah,  an’  seed  de  doctahs  a-wo’kin  ovah 
’im  foh  two  hours.  S’l:  “Take  dat  dahkey  outen 
de  president’s  cheer!”  Took  ’im  out  dey  did, 
an’  he  recovered  in  two  minutes.  (Laughter  and 
cries  of  “Good  Lord,  Doc,  don’t  let  ’im  down 
so  hahd!”)** 

The  Black  Cat  Club,  in  common  with  so  much  Chicago 
ethnic  humor,  originated  as  newspaper  sketches.  Corrothers 
was  struggling  to  support  himself  and  his  family  through 
“space  work”  (free-lancing)  for  various  Chicago  newspap¬ 
ers.  He  worked  hard,  as  he  recalls  in  his  autobiography  (In 
Spite  of  the  Handicap,  1916),  and  eventually  got  to  the 
point  where  he  regularly  sold  “straight  news”  stories  at  the 
going  rate  of  six  dollars  a  column.  The  first  “Black  Cat 
Club”  sketch  was  born  “in  the  dead  of  winter,  during  a 
dearth  of  news,  with  expenses  to  be  met.”  It  pleased  the 
Chicago  Journal's  editor,  who  set  him  to  work  on  others, 
with  the  aid  of  a  “dialect  book”  to  help  him  master  patterns 
of  speech  and  idiom  that  had  never  really  been  his  own! 

By  the  time  of  his  autobiography  twenty  years  later, 
Corrothers  had  “grown  to  consider  the  book  a  very  poor 
one,”  and  he  regretted  its  publication.  This  repudiation  un¬ 


doubtedly  had  something  to  do  with  the  social  stigma  at¬ 
tached  to  black  dialect  (he  called  it  a  “nig^erism  which  all 
intelligent  coloured  people  detest.”).  In  the  1890s  public 
acceptance  of  Paul  Laurence  Dunbar’s  Poetry  had  made 
such  writing  popular  and  even  respectable  and  Corrothers 
had  for  a  time  liked  the  idea  of  imitating  Dunbar  in  a  Chicago 
setting.  But  time  changed  his  mind,  as  it  changed  the  at¬ 
titudes  of  his  audience,  and  The  Black  Cat  Club  became  an 
embarrassment  to  its  creator.'* 

Should  humor  based  on  ethnic  stereotypes  be  embarras¬ 
sing?  Generally,  yes,  but  in  this  case,  I  think  not:  The  Black 
Cat  Club  was  written  by  a  racially-conscious  black,  does 
not  demean  blacks  as  a  group,  and  rather  effectively  uses 
the  tools  of  comic  satire  to  point  up  some  of  the  social  and 
political  foibles  of  the  age.  It  is  instructive  to  learn,  in  this 
regard,  that  one  of  Corrothers’  co-workers  at  the  Chicagc 
Journal  was  none  other  than  Finley  Peter  Dunne,  who  was 
just  beginning  to  develop  the  character  and  situation  of  his 
Irish- American  saloon  keeper,  “Mr.  Dooley,”  in  sketches 
with  much  the  same  structure  and  comic  flavor  as  The  BlacI 
Cat  Club.  Mr.  Dooley  and  his  creator  went  on  to  immortality 
Doctor  Sandy  Jenkins  and  his  to  oblivion — so  much  so  tha 
Corrothers  and  his  work  are  not  even  mentioned  in  the  mos 
recent  collection  of  Chicago  journalistic  humor,  Chicago': 
Public  Wits.'" 

The  Black  Cat  Club  is  an  anomaly:  black  genre,  writtet 
by  a  black,  and  set  in  the  city.  The  rest  of  the  “genn 
painting”  under  consideration  comes  from  downstate.  Thi 
literary  pioneer  in  this  regard  was  Indiana’s  Edward  Eggles 
ton,  whose  best-spelling  Hoosier  School-Master  (1871)  de 
fined  comic  “genre  painting”  once  and  for  all  (the  novel  i 
still  popular  today).  Eggleston’s  best  work  was  set  alon; 
the  Ohio  River  in  southern  Ohio  and  Indiana,  but  he  dii 
turn  to  Illinois  for  one  of  his  later  and  lesser  stories.  Th 
Graysons  (1887),  which  he  first  subtitled  “A  Story  of  II 
linois”  and  later  “A  Story  of  Abraham  Lincoln,”  perhaps  I 
gain  sales  by  the  invocation  of  the  mythic  name.  To  contem 
porary  readers  the  most  interesting  aspect  of  the  novel  ma 
not  be  the  Lincolniana,  which  is  based  on  the  Dul 
Armstrong  murder  trial  of  1857  (where  Lincoln  uses  th 
almanac  and  a  late  moonrise  to  discredit  a  witness),  or  th 
superimposed  romance,  but  Eggleston  s  sense  of  social  hi? 
{Q[-y — still  convincing  and  evocative  when  the  scene  h,. 
been  moved  trom  southern  Indiana  to  central  Illinois. 

Eggleston  thought  that  true  democratic  community  w^ 
a  possibility  in  the  American  west — or  at  any  rale  had  bee 
during  the  first  half  of  the  19th  century.  And  he  according! 
gave  us  towns  like  “Moscow.  Illinois.”  that  are  good  plac« 
to  live.  But  there  were  always  strong  forces  opposir 
community:  ereed,  hypocrisy,  and  anti-democratic  clas 
feeling.  David  Ross  Locke,  a  comic  journalist,  made  ; 
example  of  Illinois  in  a  slashing  satire  of  land-boomir 
titled  A  Pape/- C/A' (1878).  Once  again,  silly  romance  ai 
a  fumbling  plot  all  but  destroy  the  novel.  But  Locke  kno\ 
what  he's  talking  about  when  it  comes  to  towns  that  exi 
mostly  on  paper  (and  in  the  minds  of  visionary,  ven 
promoters):  New  Canton,  Illinois,  may  be  a  "one-mu 
town,”  but  it’s  soon  going  to  be  another  Peoria,  anolh 


26 


icago.  Locke  shows  how  the  bubble  bursts — it  had  been 
lated  by  the  hot  bad  breath  of  greed — and  New  Canton 
eft  a  ghost  town,  still-born  on  the  prairie,  perhaps  the 
;  of  an  archaeological  excavation  a  hundred  years  later, 
destined  never  to  be  an  Illinois  community. 

Another  satire  of  Illinois  small-town  life,  though  much 
ader,  is  a  little-known  novel  called  The  Jericho  Road 
76)  by  John  Habberton.  The  story  illustrates  the  truth 
what  a  steamboat  roustabout  says  early  on  about  the 
tagonist,  one  Lemuel  Pankett,  a  forlorn  immigrant 
Ti  New  York:  ‘“The  West  wasn’t  made  fur  blunderin’ 
dders  to  play  circus  in.’’’"  The  main  target  of  the  satire 
eligious  and  moral  hypocrisy  in  the  Wabash  River  town 
‘Mount  Zion”,  ca.  1849  (nothing  like,  I  hasten  to  add, 
real  Mt.  Zion  southeast  of  Decatur  in  Macon  County!), 
lile  hardly  written  with  the  artful  sting  of  more  famous 
Iwestem  village  satires  like  Mark  Twain’s  “The  Man 
It  Corrupted  Hadleyburg,”  The  Jericho  Road  is  nonethe- 
;  a  rare  early  example  of  the  way  in  which  “genre  painters” 
llinois  could  turn  the  tables  on  their  homely,  sentimental 
jects.  In  this  instance  charity  didn’t  begin  at  home,  in 
unt  Zion,  or  on  the  Jericho  road.  When  poor  Lem  finally 
5  after  almost  allegorically  protracted  sufferings,  Habber- 
pronounces  a  last  judgment  on  the  town’s  doubtful  status 
i  community: 

The  inhabitants  of  Mount  Zion  were  not,  as  a 
body,  familiar  with  the  course  of  all  human  his¬ 
tory,  or  with  the  habits  of  the  best  society,  but 
they  had  in  them  one  of  those  qualities  of  nature 
which  make  the  world  akin,  and  show  that  the 
ancient  Greek  and  the  modem  negro,  the  French 
aristocrat  and  the  New  York  rowdy,  are  men  of 
the  same  blood — they  knew  how  to  heap  upon 
a  corpse  the  kind  attentions  which  they  had  with- 
eld  from  its  owner.  Lem’s  funeral  was  the  finest 
one  which  Mount  Zion  had  ever  known,  (p.  215) 

Novels  of  rural  boyhood  constitute  one  of  the  most 
luring  varieties  of  American  “genre  painting”.  Edgar  Lee 
isters’  Mitch  Miller,  set  in  Petersburg  in  the  1880s,  is  the 
ry  of  the  title  character’s  fascination  with  Twain’s  Tom 
vyer,  whom  he  believes  to  be  a  real  person  still  living 
the  “far  off’  town  of  Hannibal .  The  action  is  narrated  by 
tch’s  “best  chum,”  Skeeters  Kirby,  and  the  two  boys 
ge  far  and  wide  over  the  town  and  countryside  in  search 
bookish  adventure  and  that  elusive  treasure  that  will  both 
ke  their  fortune  and  establish  unalterably  their  fame  in 
community.  Well,  reasons  Mitch,  it  worked  for  Tom 
kvyer  and  Huck  Finn.  Why  not  for  him? 

Thus  far  the  novel  is  the  standard  boyhood  summer 
itasy,  though  Mitch  and  Skeeters  live  in  a  small-town 
Jure  that  has  evolved  fifty  crucial  years  beyond  Twain’s 
Petersburg  (can  you  image  Tom  calling  Huck  on  the 
sphone?).  Masters,  however,  moves  the  story  in  a  direc- 
n  Twain  never  attempted:  he  has  Mitch  Miller  begin  a 
inful  turning  toward  adolescence  that  involves  progres- 
'e  disenchantment.  When  he  finally  visits  Hannibal 


Mitch  discovers  that  there  really  isn’t  a  Tom  Sawyer;  then 
he  loses  his  childhood  sweetheart,  Zueline;  and  then  he 
starts  running  with  older,  tougher  boys,  leaving  Skeeters 
alone,  sad  and  wondering. 

American  writers  have  had  a  hard  time  letting  their 
fictional  boys  grow  up,  which  is  another  way  of  saying 
they’ve  had  the  same  problem  themselves.  The  solution  has 
been  to  freeze  the  likes  of  Tom  and  Huck  in  time,  just  on 
the  verge  of  adolescence,  and  either  repeat  the  same  story 
over  and  over  or  try  other  subjects.  Yet  those  “other  subjects” 
often  proved  hard  to  fashion.  In  1900,  when  he  was  65 
years  old,  Mark  Twain  wrote  to  the  widow  of  one  of  his 
Hannibal  boyhood  friends  that  he  would  “like  to  call  back 
Will  Bowen  &  John  Garth  &  the  others,  &  live  the  life  & 
be  as  we  were,  &  make  holiday  until  15,  then  all  drown 
together.”'^  This  startling  statement  is  best  left  to  the 
psychobiographers,  yet  I  think  it  says  as  much  about  Twain’s 
art  as  his  life.  Rural  American  boyhood  was  apparently  so 
beautiful  and  the  adult  world  so  tawdry  by  contrast  that — for 
Twain  at  any  rate — death  was  preferable  to  growing  up.  In 
Mitch  Miller  Edgar  Lee  Masters  seemed  to  agree.  Mitch  is 
run  over  and  killed  by  a  freight  train  while  trying  to  jump 
into  a  boxcar.  Instead  of  Tom  Sawyer,  he  goes  out  a 
Petersburg  Hamlet,  an  Illinois  Keats.  Dead  at  1 2,  but  thereby 
spared  further  romantic  and  social  disillusionment: 

The  America  his  father  hoped  for  and  the 
America  he  would  have  hoped  for  sits  for  the 
time  being,  anyway,  in  dullness  and  in  dust. 

And  so  I  am  not  sorry  that  for  these  nearly 
thirty  years,  Mitchie  Miller  has  been  dust,  a 
part  of  the  hill  overlooking  the  Sangamon 
River,  not  far  from  the  deserted  village  of  Old 
Salem — his  dust  at  one  with  the  hill  and  shar¬ 
ing  its  own  eternity!'^ 

Infinitely  more  positive,  though  also  expressing  elegiac 
regret  at  the  loss  of  Illinois  innocence,  is  Francis  Grierson’s 
The  Valley  of  Shadows  (1909).  This  strange  and  haunting 
book,  written  from  England  by  a  60-year-old  “citizen  of  the 
world”  who  was  remembering  a  few  years  spent  on  the 
prairies  of  central  Illinois  a  half-century  before,  has  had  a 
kind  of  underground  reputation — a  cult  following — ever 
since  its  appearance.  Carl  Sandburg  quoted  freely  from  it 
in  his  biography  of  Lincoln,  and  such  eminent  American 
critics  as  Edmund  Wilson  and  Bernard  De  Voto  have  re¬ 
garded  The  Valley  of  Shadows  as  not  only  an  Illinois  but  a 
national  literary  classic. 

Yet  today  Grierson’s  masterwork — one  of  the  handful 
of  absolutely  first-rate  contributions  that  Illinois  has  made 
to  American  literature — is  still  not  widely  appreciated  in  the 
state.  This  should  change,  and  can  change,  because  College 
and  University  Press  has  kept  it  in  print  in  a  useful,  affordable 
paperbound  edition  (with  a  good  introduction  on  Grierson’s 
life  and  work  by  Harold  P.  Simonson).  No  summary  can 
do  more  than  hint  at  the  unique  qualities  of  The  Valley  of 
Shadows,  for  it  is  above  all  a  book  of  evocations — images 
and  feelings — of  the  spirit  and  landscape  of  Illinois  in  the 


27 


year  1858.  The  book  is  certainly  not  a  novel,  as  Grierson 
himself  pointed  out,  yet  neither  is  it  simply  the  “reminis¬ 
cence”  he  claimed.  Perhaps  The  Valley  of  Shadows  is  best 
described  as  a  thoroughly  fictionalized  memoir,  full  of  the 
19th  century  novel’s  furniture,  but  lacking  one  essential:  a 
recognizable  plot. 

The  first  twelve  chapters  (the  “Sangamon  Sketches”) 
have,  however,  a  strong  sense  of  unity  which  is  based  on 
a  small  Illinois  community’s  moral  struggle  over  slavery — 
not  ownership  of  slaves,  of  course,  but  with  abolitionism 
and  the  Underground  Railroad.  The  book’s  point  of  view 
is  succinctly  put  in  these  words  by  Elihu  Gest,  the  “Load- 
Bearer”  or  spiritual  leader  of  the  (unnamed)  community: 
‘“Sin  in  politics  air  ekil  to  sin  in  religion — thar  ain’t  no 
dividin’  line.’”'*'  And  slavery  is  a  religion  sin.  The  good 
folk,  therefore,  will  work  against  the  slave-catchers  and  for 
the, Underground  Railroad,  striving  to  protect  the  Illinois 
Garden  from  the  “Shadows”  that  threaten  it.  The  narrative 
is  through  the  eyes  and  consciousness  of  a  boy  (though  we 
sense  the  man  in  England  creating  and  remembering)  to 
whom  this  New  World  was  really  new: 

The  whole  day  I  followed  the  oxen,  never  grow¬ 
ing  weary  of  the  wonders  of  Nature,  and  when 
this  rough  piece  of  land  has  been  ploughed, 
harrowed,  and  duly  prepared  for  the  first  crop 
of  Indian  com  (maize),  then  came  what  was  to 
me,  the  climax  of  the  whole  proceedings,  the 
actual  sowing  of  the  seed.  It  was  like  some  rare 
holiday,  a  festival,  a  celebration.  All  Nature 
seemed  to  partake  of  the  joy;  a  new  world  of 
marvels  seemed  to  be  on  the  eve  of  consumma¬ 
tion.  The  weather  was  perfect  and  as  we  three — 
my  father,  one  of  my  sisters,  and  myself — went 
forth  with  a  sack  of  seed,  we  dropped  the  large 
golden  grains  into  the  proper  places  all  along 
through  the  soft,  dark  loam,  closing  up  each 
hole,  keeping  up  a  ceaseless  ehatter,  mainly,  I 
think,  about  the  pure  delights  of  the  work  we 
were  doing,  (pp.  107-108) 

Those  were  the  days,  Grierson  recalled,  that  shone  out  “like 
great  white  jewels  in  the  crown  of  years.”  Of  course,  this 
was  an  Illinois  that  never  “really”  existed,  but  it  was,  and 
still  is,  a  beautiful  place:  a  myth,  yes;  and  for  that  reason 
maybe  just  what  we  need. 

I  can  think  of  no  better  book  for  teaching  students  the 
high  emotional  drama  that  the  Illinois  folk  lived  through  in 
those  crucial  years  of  the  rise  of  Abraham  Lincoln  just  before 
the  Civil  War.  There  are  obstacles  to  easy  comprehension 
in  the  book,  no  question  about  that.  The  characters  talk  in 
a  dialect  that  can  be  difficult  for  us  to  read,  and  Grierson’s 
pervasive  romanticism  and  its  associated  poetic  style — he 
was  thoroughly  mystical  when  it  came  to  the  Illinois 
prairies — can  get  to  be  a  little  bit  tiresome  (at  least  to  people 
who  don’t  tend  to  believe  in  “never  growing  weary”  of  farm 
labor,  though  working  “the  livelong  day”).  Yet  in  my  experi¬ 
ence  such  minor  difficulties  are  quickly  overcome  as  stu¬ 


dents’  imaginations  catch  fire.  1  firmly  believe  that  The 
Valley  of  Shadows  should  be  read  in  history  and  literature 
classes  all  across  the  state,  both  high  school  and  college. 
And  for  Illinois  citizens  generally.  The  Valley  of  Shadows 
ought  to  stand  with  titles  like  Sandburg’s  A/>ra/zam  Lincoln: 
the  Prairie  Years  among  a  small  group  of  necessary  read¬ 
ings.  In  remembering  the  Lincoln-Douglas  debate  at  Alton, 
Grierson  set  down  words  that  Sandburg  later  repeated  along 
with  his  own .  And  the  books  of  tK)th  writers  have  contributed 
a  good  deal  to  the  composite  mythic  portrait  that  is  the 
people’s  Lincoln: 

What  thrilled  the  people  who  stood  before  Ab¬ 
raham  Lincoln  on  that  day  was  the  sight  of  a 
being  who,  in  all  his  actions  and  habits,  resem¬ 
bled  themselves,  gentle  as  he  was  strong,  fear¬ 
less  as  he  was  honest,  who  towered  above  them 
all  in  that  psychic  radiance  that  penetrates  in 
some  mysterious  way  every  fibre  of  the  hearer's 
consciousness,  (pp.  199-200) 

Something  of  Francis  Grierson’s  recollected  delight  ir 
Illinois  nature  is  found  in  another  backroads  book  from  oui 
literary  heritage.  A  Prairie  Winter  (1903),  said  on  the  title 
page  to  be  by  “an  Illinois  girl”  (identified  as  Belle  Ower 
in  Illinois!  Illinois!),  is  a  diary  presumably  recording  the 
actual  life  of  a  woman  living  on  a  farm  near  Mokena  ir 
Will  County.  A  Prairie  Winter  may  not  contain  a  single 
fictional  word,  yet  Belle’s  intensely  personal  (but  furtive 
voice  and  the  inevitable  narrative  silences  of  the  diary  fom 
give  the  book  a  feeling  of  mystery  that  reads  like  goex 
fiction.  We  just  do  not  know  who  “Belle  Owen”  is.  He 
name  occurs  only  once  in  the  narrative,  and  we  have  nc 
way  of  knowing  whether  she  is  mother,  wife,  aunt,  sister 
or  perhaps  of  more  distant  kin  to  the  farm  family.  There  i' 
no  mention  of  a  husband — or  for  that  matter  any  adult  male— 
and  the  children  are  noted  only  as  “the  boys”  or  "the  girls. 
Belle  belongs  among  them,  but  in  what  relation  or  capacit; 
we  are  never  told. 

The  farm’s  geographical  situation  is  problematic,  toe 
somewhere  near  Mokena,  which  is  itself  a  few  miles  ea^ 
of  Joliet,  and  close  to  the  Rock  Island  Line  railroad  track 
(trains  and  their  passage  are  as  important  in  A  Prairie  Winte 
as  in  Thoreau’s  Walden).  On  autumn  evenings,  when  th 
weather  is  lowering,  she  can  see  “off  to  the  northeast  a  fitfi 
glow... the  beacon  of  civilization. . .Chicago!”'^  The  Illinoi 
landscape  is  in  transition.  By  1900,  when  Belle  writes  he 
winter’s  journal,  farms  within  Chicago’s  hegemony  are  be 
coming  exceptions — natural  islands  amid  rapidly  urbanizin 
surroundings.  This  is  of  course  tamiliar  to  us  today:  the  la; 
soybean  field  within  the  city  limits  gives  way  to  housey 
apartments,  parking  lots,  and.  just  tor  a  moment  before  w' 
are  swept  on  downstream  by  the  quotidian  current,  progre? 
is  a  regretful  word. 

This  sense  of  being  poised  on  the  verge  of  chang 
adds  poignancy  to  the  quiet  lyricism  and  domestic  sent 
mentality  of  A  Prairie  Winter.  The  lights  of  Chicago  ma 


28 


fitfully  visible  to  the  northeast,  but  there  is  no  electricity 
the  farmstead.  When  Belle  reads  of  an  evening,  she 
ads  by  lamplight: 


Tea  is  ready  and  the  table  spread.  The  lighted 
lamp  is  placed  in  the  center  of  the  table  and  my 
rocker  drawn  up  to  the  fire.  I  am  waiting  for 
the  boys  to  come  home  with  the  milk.  The  wind 
sings  in  the  stovepipe,  and  the  clock  ticks  against 
the  wall,  while  I  read.  I  turn  the  leaves  silently, 
glancing  from  time  to  time  at  the  clock.  Perhaps 
I  step  out  to  lay  a  stick  under  the  teakettle,  or 
to  listen  for  wheels.  The  moon,  but  newly  risen, 
is  riding  in  the  cleft  of  a  dark  cloud, — crags  of 
light  below  her,  rosy  peaks  above.  Still  tea 
waits,  and  I  still  read.  A  sleepy  fly  may  buzz 
on  the  ceiling,  or  a  mouse  scramble  in  the  walls. 
The  moon  comes  clear  and  peeps  at  me  over 
the  clothes-bars.  I  am  in  a  world  of  beauty,  of 
pathos  and  delight,  for  the  book  in  my  hand  is 
“A  Window  in  Thrums.”  (pp.  59-60) 


I't  this  the  perfect  rural  dream?  An  atmosphere  of  quiet, 
ture,  rusticity,  and,  to  be  sure,  a  book  to  read  that  is  about 
:se  very  things.  J.  M.  Barrie’s  A  Window  in  Thrums 
itched  the  humble  ways  of  the  weaver-folk  of  Scotland 
d  was  a  best-seller  when  it  appeared  in  America  in  1892.  ‘ 
rrie’s  work  appealed  to  the  tastes  of  Americans  who 
inted  their  fiction  to  be  romantic  without  being  exotic, 
10  wanted  the  “semblance  of  realism,  so  long  as  that 
ilism  conveyed  an  essentially  romantic  picture  of  an  ear- 
r,  purer  life  when  men  and  women  lived  closer  to  nature 
d  still  saw  ways  to  find  success  in  homely  achievements. 
itrie’s  rural  vision  is  one  with  Belle  Owen’s.  The  speech 
different,  but  the  place  is  the  same — neither  Scotland, 
r  America,  nor  Illinois  east  of  Joliet,  but  literary,  and  the 
;  she  represents  in  A  Prairie  Winter  is  made  mythic  even 
she  records  it  from  daily  experience. 

In  this  sense  A  Prairie  Winter  is  pure  fiction,  but  that’s 
t  a  criticism.  We  may  think  we  live  in  a  tougher-minded 
irld  and  have  finally  moved  beyond  “all  that.”  But  consider 
;  phenomenal  American  popularity  of  James  Herriot,  the 
)rkshire  veterinarian  whose  stories  (and  their  television 
imatizations)  have  had  such  a  vogue  here  over  the  past 
cade  or  so.  While  Yorkshire  isn’t  Scotland,  it’s  close 
ough  for  fiction.  Herriot’s  rural  world  in  books  like  All 
eatures  Great  and  Small  makes  him  Barrie’s  literary  de- 
sndant — and  a  writer  to  be  taken  to  heart  by  sentimental 
nericans.  Evidently  the  rural  myth  continues  to  serve  a 
ep-seated  emotional  need. 

If  we  are  going  to  read  such  stuff — and  we  are — why 
•t  read  our  own?  A  Prairie  Winter  takes  what  Belle 
wen’s  Illinois  was  losing,  what  we  have  lost,  and  turns 
into  an  imaginary  landscape  that  is  somehow  true.  Here’s 
le  last  passage  (November  18th)  to  suggest  A  Prairie 
inter's  simple  magic: 


They  left  me  alone  with  the  house  for  an  after¬ 
noon.  I  roamed  about  the  barnyard,  feeding  the 
turkeys,  or  wandered  up  and  down  the  hard, 
smooth- worn  road,  looking  far,  far  away.  It  is 
wonderful  how  far  we  can  see,  now  that  the 
leaves  are  gone.  A  certain  hollow  in  the  woods, 
hidden  all  summer  by  the  dense  foliage,  now 
shows  quite  plainly,  with  touches  of  brownish 
yellow.  I  had  just  discovered  it,  and  was  rejoic¬ 
ing  in  my  new  outlook,  when  a  long  passenger 
train  wound  gracefully  through  the  trees  and 
sped  along  in  the  hollow,  filling  it  with  wreaths 
of  white  smoke.  So,  that  is  where  the  Rock 
Island  track  crawls  along,  the  traces  of  whose 
trains  I  see  in  the  flimsy  smoke  from  my  win¬ 
dow.  I  have  never  seen  a  train  on  that  track  from 
the  house  before.  I  shelled  the  last  kernel  from 
my  cob,  and  returned  to  see  how  the  bread  was 
baking  and  if  it  was  time  to  put  on  the  teakettle 
for  supper,  (pp.  64-65) 


4.  MINDING  OUR  MANNERS 

When  Joseph  Kirkland,  a  Chicago  lawyer  who  had 
earlier  lived  here  and  there  downstate,  published  his  first 
novel,  Zury  (subtitled  “The  Meanest  Man  in  Spring  County, 
Illinois”),  he  thought  of  it  as  a  ground-breaking  piece  of 
midwestem  realism.  After  all,  the  protagonist  was  an  “actual 
farmer”  (the  first  in  American  literature  according  to  Ham¬ 
lin  Garland),  and  the  book  included  a  lot  of  social  and 
environmental  detail  from  the  frontier  years  of  his  fictional 
Illinois  town,  “Wayback.”  Kirkland  loaded  (some  would 
say  overloaded)  the  story  with  carefully-studied  back- 
woods  dialect  (and  provided  a  glossary  for  those  among 
his  refined  readers  who  didn’t  know  what  words  like  “or¬ 
nery”  meant).  Most  daring  of  all,  he  thought,  was  his 
liberal  characterization  of  Anne  Sparrow,  a  transplanted 
easterner  and  a  woman  with  a  “past“:  she  was  no  less  than 
a  refugee  from  the  Brook  Farm  experiment  in  cooperative 
living,  come  to  “Wayback  City”  to  be  its  schoolmistress. 
Kirkland  endowed  Anne  Sparrow  with  an  independence 
of  thought  and  action  that  went  far  beyond  the  norms  of 
early  19th  century  western  community. 

Kirkland  expected  to  shock  many  of  his  readers,  and 
evidently  he  judged  his  audience  accurately.  Zury’  was 
praised  by  other  apostles  of  realism  in  America,  including 
William  Dean  Howells  and  Garland  (who  became  Kirkland’s 
fast  friend  after  writing  a  favorable  review).  And  it  was 
condemned  as  offensive  and  “immoral”  by  the  guardians  of 
decency — the  mostly  female  novel-readers  of  America.  A 
century  later  the  controversy  over  Zury’s  “realism”  is  hard 
to  understand.  The  novel  is  in  fact  a  romance  of  pioneering 
with  a  comic  courtship  plot  to  move  the  story  along  after 
the  Illinois  wilderness  has  become  the  lasting  farmscape 
that  we  still  recognize  today.  Both  the  romance  of  pioneering 
and  the  comedy  of  manners  provide  Zury  with  a  literary 
distinction  that  Kirkland’s  “realism  of  the  b’gosh  sort”  can’t 


1  1 


29 


\IEN  /  SUPPLEMENTARY 

FICTION  SINCE  1915  I  POETRY  BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


match.  And  if  one  of  Kirkland’s  points  was  to  dramatize 
the  difficulties  of  planting  truly  democratic  communities  in 
western  America,  then  the  comic  wooing  of  Anne  Sparrow 
by  Zury  Prouder  was  a  stroke  of  inspiration.  The  humorous 
stereotype  of  the  country  bumpkin  among  urban  sophisti¬ 
cates  has  been  a  part  of  American  literature  at  least  since 
Royall  Tyler’s  The  Contrast  (1790),  but  the  19th  century 
West  turned  the  world  upside  down  by  insisting  on  the  social 
superiority  of  the  frontier  democrat.  People  like  Zury  were 
unfinished  and  crude,  but  with  at  least  a  smidgin  of  “natural 
nobility.”  They  might  allow  a  few  of  their  rough  edges  to 
be  sanded  smooth  by  eastern  culture,  but  in  turn  they  took 
as  their  prerogative  the  teaching  of  the  crucial  lessons  of 
American  democracy. 

The  boy  Zury  (short  for  Usury)  Prouder’s  battle  for 
survival  on  the  land  (the  first  five  chapters)  is  stirring  read¬ 
ing.  And  the  comic  conflict  of  manners  that  arises  when 
East  (Anne)  meets  West  (Zury)  carries  the  novel  to  the 
end — by  which  time  both  Zury  and  Illinois  have  about  grown 
up,  and  the  Civil  War  is  imminent.  At  the  outset,  the  contrast 
between  these  two  memorable  characters  is  complete:  Zury 
is  miserly,  ignorant,  practical,  indomitable  and  honest;  Anne 
is  liberally  educated,  imaginative,  open-handed,  and  equally 
strong  and  incorruptible.  While  1  believe  the  long  comic 
process  of  Zury’s  and  Anne’s  coming  together  is  expertly 
handled  by  Kirkland,  perhaps  the  novel’s  length  (538  pages) 
is  against  it  with  modem  readers;  certainly  publishers  have 
thought  twice  before  republishing  it  (the  last  reprint  was 
from  the  University  of  Illinois  Press  in  1956).  Yet  as  the 
finest  19th  century  novel  about  pioneering  in  Illinois,  Zury 
deserves  to  be  in  print  and  more  widely  read. 

Zury  opens  in  1815  and  closes  some  forty  years  later. 
In  other  words,  the  novel  was  written  nearly  a  half-century 
after  its  last  events.  Nostalgia  for  a  world  “long  ago  and  far 
away”  is  understandable  even  in  a  confirmed  realist  like 
Joseph  Kirkland.  Modern  academic  critics  have  either  forgi¬ 
ven  or  forgotten  his  romantic  and  comic  “sins,”  while  accept¬ 
ing  Zury’s  “b’gosh”  realism  as  the  novel’s  hallmark.  But 
critics  manifest  a  strong  prejudice  against  the  same  sort  of 
romance  (and  romantic  comedy)  in  “up-to-date”  novels  with 
urban  settings.  Such  a  bias  helps  us  understand  the  years 
of  obscurity  for  Clara  Burnham’s  Sweet  Clover  ( 1894)  and 
Edith  Wyatt’s  True  Love  (1903),  two  romantic  comedies 
that  were  read  and  appreciated  in  their  day  but  have  since 
disappeared  from  critical  view.  The  two  Chicago  novels  of 
manners  that  are  today  considered  definitive — Harry  Blake 
Fuller’s  The  Cliff-Dwellers  (1893)  and  With  the  Procession 
( 1895) — are  usually  praised  because  they  modify  the  roman¬ 
tic  formula  away  from  “mere  comedy”  and  steer  the  narra¬ 
tives  toward  deepened  character  and  social  seriousness.  But 
consider  the  subtitles  of  the  novels  by  Burnham  and  Wyatt: 
“A  Romance  of  the  White  City,”  and  “A  Comedy  of  the 
Affections.”  Neither  Sweet  Clover  nor  True  Love  offers  us 
what  we’ve  traditionally  expected  to  find  in  a  Chicago  novel: 
a  detailed,  objectified  sense  of  the  city  itself,  with  Chicago 
serving  as  the  battleground  for  “survival  of  the  fittest”  in  a 
predatory  business  culture;  a  good  deal  of  social  criticism 


aimed  at  urban  life;  and  a  condemnation  of  the  characters 
who  fail  to  measure  up  to  modem  standards  of  middle-class 
“decency”  in  their  lives. 

Sweet  Clover,  has  scarely  a  hint  of  social  criticism, 
and  Chicago  serves  as  merely  an  undifferentiated  back¬ 
ground  for  the  World’s  Columbian  Exposition.  Sweet  Clover 
evokes  the  Fair  as  a  midsummer  night’s  dream,  a  Renais¬ 
sance  fantasy,  with  electricity  and  other  new-fangled 
technology  to  heighten  the  spectacle.  Indeed,  the  Fair  com¬ 
pletely  crowds  out  the  city  of  Chicago  as  a  setting.  The 
novel  endorses  the  “White  City’s”  idealism — an  idealism 
that  seemed  to  other  novelists  of  the  time  more  than  a  little 
meretricious,  given  the  social  realities  of  Chicago  and 
America  in  1893,  and  seems  to  me  today  nothing  short  of 
preposterous — and  even  amplifies  it  to  the  level  of  a  Chris¬ 
tian  transcendental  vision,  as  in  this  scene  where  young  Jack 
Van  Tassel  first  visits  the  “White  City’s”  Court  of  Honor 
at  night  and  is  utterly  enchanted;  “It  was  with  reverence  and 
a  species  of  awe  that  Van  Tassel  gazed  about  him.  The 
Court  of  Honor  had  given  him  his  first  approach  to  a  reali¬ 
zation  of  the  possibilities  of  the  Celestial  City.”'"  Or  this 
effusion  on  the  Fair’s  closing  day,  as  seen  through  the  eyes 
of  the  two  sisters,  Mildred  and  Clover  Bryant,  who  are  the 
respective  love-interests  of  the  principal  male  characters. 
Van  Tassel  and  Gorham  Page  (to  paraphrase  Puck;  Lord! 
what  names  these  lovers  have!): 

They  spoke  softly,  as  in  a  holy  place,  and  with 
one  accord  looked  up  at  the  infinite  message  in 
carven  letters,  the  significant  legacy  of  the  sum¬ 
mer’s  grand  experience — “Ye  shall  know  the 
truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free.”  A 
strain  of  solemn  sweetness  sounded  through  the 
harmonies  that  poured  without  ceasing  from  the 
orchestra... touching  every  heart  in  that  waiting 
throng.  The  rays  of  the  low-hanging  sun  shot 
for  one  moment  past  the  side  of  the  Administra¬ 
tion  Building,  gleamed  through  the  waters  of 
the  fountain,  and  traveled  a  swift  path  across 
the  lagoon  to  illume  for  an  instant  the  golden 
Republic.  “It  is  the  swan-song!”  exclaimed 
Mildred,  (p.  398) 

In  the  words  of  critic  Sidney  Bremer,  Sweet  Clover 
“reads  like  a  souvenir  guidebook  for  the  World’s  Fair.”"' 
but  in  my  opinion  this  is  the  best  thing  about  it.  I’m  much 
more  interested  in  the  detailed  accounts — breathless  with 
enthusiasm — of  daily  visits  to  the  Peristyle  or  the  Midway 
of  the  Transportation  Building  (with  architect  Louis  Sulli¬ 
van’s  fabulous  "Golden  Door”)  than  in  Burnham’s  romantic 
question  of  whether  these  middle-class  knights  and  ladies 
will  find  the  Fair’s  “grail”  and  in  the  end  prove  worthy  of 
one  another. 

For  Bremer,  however.  Sweet  Clover  is  representative 
of  a  group  of  novels  by  women  which  go  unread  ttnlay 
precisely  because  they  w'ere  written  by  women  and  otter  a 
version  of  Chicago  life  very  different  from  our  exptectations. 
Whether  Burnham’s  novel  is  neglected  for  these  reasons  or 


30 


jcause  of  its  romance  and  piety,  Bremer  is  surely  right  to 
iggest  that  Sweet  Clover  is  no  worse  than  many  “men’s” 
3vels  that  have  somehow  survived  in  our  culture.  In  two 
cent  essays,  Bremer  has  made  a  convincing  case  for  the 
discovery  of  a  tradition  of  Chicago  women’s  fiction  that 
Ters  an  “alternative  vision”  of  the  city: 

...women’s  Chicago  novels  present  the  city  as 
part  of  a  life  experience  that  is  continuous,  em¬ 
bedded  in  natural  forces  and  in  communal  ties 
and  conflicts. . . .  This  Chicago  extends  backward 
in  time  and  outward  in  space.... It  is  not  a  new 
reality  cut  off  from  the  past  or  the  countryside. 
Moreover,  Chicago  novels  by  women  usually 
embrace  nature  as  a  powerful,  complex  presence 
within  the  city,  whereas  the  men’s  novels  tend 
to  idealize  nature  and  present  it  as  apart  from 
the  city.“ 

The  dichotomy  between  the  two  Chicagos  isn’t  abso- 
te,  as  Bremer  herself  admits,  but  it  does  hold  with  few 
;ceptions,  the  most  important  being  Fuller’s  With  the  Pro- 
•ssion.  By  centering  his  novel  in  the  people  and  places  of 
)ld  Chicago”  (pre-Fire) — old  families  with  old  money  and 
d  mores — Fuller  is  better  able  to  dramatize  the  relentless 
icroachments  of  the  new,  represented  by  the  mob  of  “root- 
ss“  strangers  who  have  invaded  the  city  in  the  1890s. 

With  the  Procession  is  a  fine  novel,  perhaps  Chicago’s 
:st  comedy  of  manners,  and  deserves  the  favored  place  it 
IS  had  in  critical  writing  and  in  many  college  courses  on 
[licago  literature.  Much  of  the  book’s  interest  derives  from 
tiler’s  deft  handling  of  an  entire  family’s  social  crisis.  The 
arshalls,  at  the  instigation  of  daughter  Jane,  try  to  re-enter 
hicago’s  ever-moving  “procession”  after  a  decade  or 
ore  of  having  sat  unnoticed  by  the  wayside.  They  are 
)ld  settlers”  and  therefore  worth  salvaging  in  Fuller’s 
'es.  Yet  the  city  has  changed  so  radically  in  the  years 
the  Marshalls’  “social  somnolence”  that  they  have  no 
ea  of  how  to  cope  with  its  “modern”  demands.  Fuller 
ts  a  series  of  challenges  for  the  family — they  will  build 
fashionable  new  house,  they  will  re-assert  themselves 
civic  affairs,  they  will  marry  off  the  daughters  advan- 
geously,  they  will  even  find  a  niche  for  their  foppish 
id  deracinated  son,  Truesdale — but  at  every  turn  the 
lew”  Chicago  beats  them.  By  the  end  of  the  novel  what’s 
ft  of  the  Marshalls  is  indeed  back  in  the  Procession,  but 
imbly,  and  with  diminished  expectations. 

To  those  who  have  not  read  With  the  Procession  I  very 
uch  doubt  whether  this  summary  sounds  like  a  comedy! 
tiler’s  style  of  sustained  light  bantering  and  his  acute  wit 
e  perfect  for  a  novel  of  manners,  but  the  rather  painful 
itcome  of  the  story  implies  that  the  best  of  “old  Chicago” 
as  being  systematically  crushed  by  the  forces  of  urban 
odemism.  The  family  business  goes  bankrupt;  Mr.  Mar- 
lall  dies;  Mrs.  Marshall  is  left  a  bewildered  semi-invalid; 
e  youngest  daughter  Rosy  marries  an  English  phoney;  son 
ruesdale  decamps  for  Japan;  and  Jane,  who  with  the  best 
intentions  had  set  the  whole  machinery  of  “re-entry”  in 


motion,  ends  up  “happily”  married  to  an  awfully  earnest 
young  man.  Their  Chicago  prospect,  as  With  the  Procession 
closes,  is  for  a  life  of  middle-class  “decency”  and  weekend 
work  in  the  social  settlements. 

Sobering  stuff,  this  comedy.  But  Fuller  adheres  to  the 
first  rule  of  the  genre  by  dishing  out  “just  deserts”  to  each 
character  (well  almost:  it  is  a  little  harsh  to  kill  off  poor 
father  Marshall  simply  because  his  wholesale  grocery  busi¬ 
ness  went  under,  and  he  got  xenophobic  about  all  the  Irish 
politicos  and  Bohemian  immigrants  moving  into  his  neigh¬ 
borhood).  In  the  end  With  the  Procession  turns  too  serious, 
becomes  too  much  like  the  realistic  character  studies  with 
which  it  is  often  classed:  “bad  Chicago”  and  the  power  of 
new  money  win.  But  the  darkened  outcome  must  not  make 
us  forget  Fuller’s  comedy,  nor  his  intelligent  and  sympathe¬ 
tic  treatment  of  the  Marshall  family — who  are  collectively 
the  “protagonist”  of  the  novel. 

Family  life  also  figures  largely  in  Edith  Wyatt’s  True 
Love,  but  the  subject  this  time  is  family  in  the  extended, 
democratic  sense.  Like  With  the  Procession,  Wyatt’s  “neg¬ 
lected  masterpiece”  (as  Bremer  has  termed  it)  has  no  single 
individual  as  protagonist,  instead  taking  form  around  several 
love-relationships  involving  two  families:  the  Marshes,  who 
are  unpretentious  and  democratically-inclined;  and  the  Hub¬ 
bards,  Chicago  elitists  with  an  extremely  repressive  social 
ethic.  The  complications  of  plot  and  the  nuances  of  character 
in  True  Love  are  ingeniously  handled  by  Wyatt,  who  has  a 
ready  sense  of  irony  to  check  any  tendencies  to  romantic 
insipidity.  I  am  inclined  to  agree  with  Bremer’s  judgment 
that  “True  Love  is  certainly  comparable  in  quality  to  the 
best  of  its  contemporaries.”-'  But  I’m  not  so  sure  that  the 
book  develops  a  different  “urban  tradition,”  and  I’d  even 
go  so  far  as  to  question  whether  it  is  finally  a  “Chicago 
novel”  at  all. 

More  than  half  of  True  Love  is  set  downstate  in  a  town 
called  “Centreville:”  “...standing  in  the  Illinois  Valley,  be¬ 
tween  the  bluffs  of  a  rolling  prairie  country... a  town  of  ten 
thousand  people. And  it  is  here  rather  than  Chicago  that 
love  and  character  develop  and  flourish.  It  is  in  Centreville 
and  its  agrarian  environs  that  Emily  Marsh  learns  about 
democratic  community,  falls  in  love  with  Dick  Colton,  and 
finally  decides  to  live:  marry,  put  down  roots,  have  a  family, 
and  so  on.  And  even  if  there  is  no  single  protagonist  in  True 
Love,  I  believe  readers  will  find  that  Emily  is  the  novel’s 
central  human  concern.  We  see  the  Illinois  Valley  through 
her  eyes,  and  it’s  a  lovely  sight: 

The  road  stretched  as  far  as  the  eye  could  see, 
a  long  white,  sunlit  road,  with  green  banks  on 
either  side.  Wild  larkspur  in  blue  spikes  grew 
along  the  edge.  The  foliage,  green  and  yellow, 
very  fresh  from  the  recent  rains,  raised  leafy 
walls  behind,  all  fragrant  in  the  cool  afternoon 
air.... The  sunlight  was  streaming  through  the 
air.  The  sky,  pale  clear  azure  at  the  horizon,  at 
the  zenith  was  radiant  sapphire,  blue,  unspeak¬ 
ably  blue.  Resplendent  masses  of  cloud,  snow, 
crystal  and  grey,  noated  lightly  in  the  crystal 


31 


vault.  Where  the  foaming  brim  of  the  clouds 
was  outlined  against  the  sky  its  colour  was  deep, 
throbbing,  almost  purple,  (pp.  1  14-1 15) 

This  landscape  is  Emily  Marsh’s  first  panoramic  look  at 
what  will  someday  be  home.  Later  she  will  see  (and  the 
narrative  describe)  the  town  of  Centreville  and  the  valley 
farm  where  she  and  Dick  Colton  will  live.  By  contrast  the 
city  of  Chicago  is  scarcely  observed  at  all.  To  my  mind, 
the  narrative  chooses  the  country  for  Emily,  and  just  as 
deliberately  chooses  not  to  describe  Chicago  or  give  it  the 
status  of  “democratic  community”  that  Centreville  has. 

Yet  though  Centreville  is  preferred,  Chicago  too  is 
livable.  And  that  fact  alone  makes  True  Love  a  rarity  in 
Illinois  fiction;  a  novel  insisting  on  social  and  cultural  con¬ 
tinuity  between  county  and  city,  downstate  and  Chicago. 
Wyatt  suggests  that  “city”  doesn’t  necessarily  mean  “aliena¬ 
tion,”  nor  “country,”  “stultifying.”  Most  Chicago  novels 
bring  their  pilgrims — for  better  or  worse,  and  usually 
worse — into  the  beckoning  city  from  the  dead-end  country. 
But  in  this  case  Wyatt’s  characters  ride  down  on  the  train 
to  Centreville,  look  around  them,  live  in  the  town  and  coun¬ 
try  for  a  while,  and,  like  Emily,  are  improved  by  the  experi¬ 
ence.  Here  she  is  as  the  novel  closes: 

There  are,  no  doubt,  for  everyone  places  haunted 
by  some  spirit,  some  divinity,  that  harmonises 
all  their  colours,  composes  all  their  lights  and 
shades,  and  groups  their  various  features  to  one 
expression,  fine,  thrilling,  personally  dear  as 
that  of  some  countenance  familiar  and  beloved. 

Such  a  place  was  the  valley  to  Emily  Marsh. 
Serried  corn-bottoms  and  banks  of  green,  the 
distant  town,  the  white  blubbs  and  still-flowing 
river,  together  breathed  a  chord  that  echoed  to 
the  furthest  depths  of  her  nature,  (p.  286) 

Whether  a  “neglected  masterpiece”  or  simply  a  very 
good  novel.  True  Love  needs  to  be  available  for  reading 
and  study  (at  present  it’s  not  simply  unavailable  but  inacces¬ 
sible  in  Illinois;  my  inter-library  loan  copy  came  all  the  way 
from  California).  Wyatt’s  “comedy  of  the  affections”  ought 
to  be  at  the  top  of  the  list  of  titles  for  any  republishing 
venture  in  Illinois  fiction. 


5.  THE  ILLINOIS  CHARACTER 

It’s  another  “second  city”  irony  that  two  of  Chicago’s 
celebrated  “serious”  novels  mostly  take  place  elsewhere. 
The  last  half  of  Theodore  Dreiser’s  Sister  Carrie  ( 1900)  is 
set  in  Montreal  and  New  York  City;  and  Willa  Cather’s  The 
Song  of  the  Lark  (1915)  allows  its  protagonist,  Thea  Kron- 
borg,  to  abide  a  brief  time  in  the  city  before  resuming  her 
single-minded  artistic  pilgrimage  from  “Moonstone”  in 
eastern  Colorado  to  Europe  (and  back  to  New  York). 
Chicago  in  these  novels  isn’t  a  place  to  live  but  a  place 
to  leave.  Without  much  consideration,  Carrie  Meeber  fol¬ 


lows  Hurstwood  and  the  main  chance  to  New  York  (where 
she  will  become  the  actress  “Carrie  Madenda”).  departing  ! 
Chicago  as  unconsciously  as  she  had  arrived  not  long 
before  from  the  small  Wisconsin  town  of  “Columbia 
City.”  She  never  looks  back  and  evidently  doesn’t  miss 
Chicago  at  all.  Similarly,  Thea  Kronberg  comes  to 
Chicago  for  a  distinct  purpose  (musical  training),  finds 
what  she  wants  in  the  city,  and  is  soon  on  her  way  East. 
The  one  time  she  is  aware  of  “the  city  itself’  turns  into 
an  unpleasant  and  alienating  experience: 

When  Thea  emerged  from  the  concert  hall... a 
furious  gale  was  beating  over  the  city  from  Lake 
Michigan.  The  streets  were  full  of  cold,  hurry¬ 
ing,  angry  people,  running  for  street-cars  and 
barking  at  each  other.  The  sun  was  setting  in  a 
clear,  windy  sky.  that  flamed  with  red  as  if  there 
were  a  great  fire  somewhere  on  the  edge  of  the 
city.  For  almost  the  first  time  Thea  was  con¬ 
scious  of  the  city  itself,  of  the  congestion  of  life 
all  about  her,  of  the  brutality  and  power  of  those 
streams  that  flowed  in  the  streets,  threatening  to 
drive  one  under.  People  jostled  her,  ran  into  her, 
poked  her  aside  with  their  elbows,  uttering  angry 
exclamations.-^ 


Thea  is  trying  to  get  home  from  the  Auditorium  Theatre, 
where  she  has  heard  an  exhilarating  concert  by  the  Chicago 
Symphony  Orchestra  (Dvorak’s  New  World  Symphony  and 
some  orchestral  Wagner).  But  the  cruel  city  is  doing  its  best 
to  destroy  her  “ecstasy”:  “There  was  some  power  abroad  in 
the  world  bent  upon  taking  away  from  her  that  feeling  with 
which  she  had  come  out  of  the  concert  hall. ...If  one  had 
that,  the  world  became  one’s  enemy;  people,  buildings, 
wagons,  cars,  rushed  at  one  to  crush  it  under,  to  make  one 
let  go  of  if’  (p.  201 ). 

But  of  course  Thea  won’t  “let  go  of  it.”  At  the  Art 
Institute  she  sees  and  takes  to  heart  “The  Song  of  the 
Lark,”  by  the  French  painter,  Jules  Breton.  She  goes 
weekly  to  a  Hungarian  immigrant  for  her  music  lessons 
And  she  finds  the  love  of  her  life.  Fred  Ottenburg,  the 
cosmopolitan  heir  to  a  St.  Louis  brewing  fortune.  Al 
“native”  Chicago  contributes  to  her  education  is  an  unwel¬ 
come  knowledge  of  “rush  hour”.  When  she  leaves  the  city 
forever,  Thea  goes  without  regret. 

I  would  argue  that  both  Sister  Carrie  and  The  Song  o, 
the  Lark  are  great  American  novels.  Dreiser's  is  the  mon 
famous  and  critically  acclaimed.  Cather’s  the  more  remark 
able  achievement.  As  Chicago  books,  however,  they  obvi 
ously  use  the  city  only  incidentally.  But  what  of  the  man} 
novels  written  during  the  same  years  that  do  “stay  put  ii 
the  city,  using  it  as  setting  and  subject?  How  do  they  judgt 
Chicago  as  a  place  of  human  community  ? 

In  general,  the  Chicago  novel.  1890-1915.  is  highh 
critical  of  the  city:  particularly  in  terms  of  its  baleful  effec 
on  newcoming  individuals,  whose  characters  are  shaped  am 
stressed  by  the  tremendous  forces  of  modernizing  urban  life 


t  Chicago’s  ugly  environment  and  unjust  social  relations 
o  come  in  for  a  share  of  the  criticism.  Of  course,  there 
exceptions  to  this  generalization,  and  few  of  the  indict- 
nts  are  as  radical  as  Upton  Sinclair’s  trumpet-call  for 
dalist  revolution  in  The  Jungle  (1905);  or  as  desperately 
al  as  Dreiser’s  Jennie  Gerhardt  ( 191 1 );  or  as  sensational 
Frank  Norris’  The  Pit  ( 1903),  the  only  best-seller  among 
the  Chicago  novels  of  character.  Most  fiction  critical  of 
city  tries  to  find  an  “accommodating  middle  ground"  on 
ich  their  protagonists  can  meet  Chicago’s  nearly  impos- 
le  demands  without  sacrificing  their  ethical  selves. 

No  writer  of  the  time  dramatized  this  search  for  an 
lan  middle  ground  better  than  Robert  Herrick.  His 
icago  novels  during  the  period  1 898- 1910  were  energized 
the  love-hate  relationship  he  had  with  the  city.  A  trans- 
nted  New  Englander — and  burdened  with  the  vestiges  of 
uritan  conscience — Herrick  came  to  Chicago  to  teach  at 
new  University  on  the  South  Side.  He  ended  up  staying 
ly  years.  Thus,  while  not  a  native,  he  was  far  more  than 
literary  tourist”  like  Willa  Cather.  And  in  three  of  his 
t  novels  (The  Web  of  Life,  1 900;  The  Common  Lot,  1 904; 

1  Memoirs  of  an  American  Citizen,  1905)  Herrick  de- 
nstrated  an  extensive,  fascinated-despite-himself  knowl- 
;e  of  Chicago — all  of  Chicago,  from  the  exclusive  North 
)re  suburbs;  to  the  commercial  and  financial  heart  of  the 
/  (just  beginning  to  be  called  “the  Loop”);  west  and  south 
■Packingtown”  and  the  vast  industrial  zone;  south  to  Hyde 
k,  the  Fairgrounds,  Pullman  and  beyond;  and  of  course 
the  many  working  and  middle-class  neighborhoods  en- 
npassing  the  city.  The  crucial  events  of  Chicago’s  social 
•lescence  come  alive  in  his  novels;  Haymarket,  the  Fair, 
Pullman  Strike  and  the  heartbreaking  depression  of  1 893- 
)4.  Herrick  may  not  have  liked  what  he  saw  and  felt,  but 
ratively  speaking  he  couldn’t  wash  his  hands  of  it.  As  a 
licated  realist — a  follower  of  both  James  and  Howells — 
believed  in  writing  about  what  was  “really  there.”  It’s 
an  exaggeration  to  say  that  the  facts  of  Chicago  made 
bert  Herrick  as  a  novelist.  And  his  books  have  lasted 
ause  they  reflect  Chicago  realities  through  an  unflinch- 
ly  critical  temperament. 

Because  of  limitations  of  space  The  Web  of  Life  will 
'e  to  stand  as  typical  of  Herrick’s  Chicago  fiction.  It  is 
story  of  a  young  physician  named  Howard  Sommers 
0  rejects  a  lucrative  and  fashionable  practice  in  favor  of 
ople's  medicine”  on  the  far  South  Side.  The  year  is  1 894, 

I  as  Sommers  turns  from  privilege  to  poverty,  he  sees 
black  social  and  economic  actuality  behind  the  dream 
the  “White  City;” 

The  poor  had  come  lean  and  hungry  out  of  the 
terrible  winter  that  followed  the  World’s  Fair. 

In  that  beautiful  enterprise  the  prodigal  city  had 
put  forth  her  utmost  strength,  and,  having  shown 
the  world  the  supreme  flower  of  her  energy,  had 
collapsed.  There  was  gloom,  not  only  in  LaSalle 
Street  where  people  failed,  but  throughout  the 
city,  where  the  engine  of  play  had  exhausted 
the  forces  of  all.  The  city’s  huge  garment  was 


too  large  for  it;  miles  of  empty  stores,  hotels, 
flat-buildings,  showed  its  shrunken  state.  Tens 
of  thousands  of  human  beings,  lured  to  the  fes¬ 
tive  city  by  abnormal  wages,  had  been  left 
stranded,  without  food  or  a  right  to  shelter  in 
its  tenant-less  buildings. 

Sommers  lives  for  a  time  (with  his  common-law  wife,  Alves 
Preston)  in  an  abandoned  ticket  booth  from  the  Fair.  He 
watches  the  spectacular  fire  that  turns  what’s  left  of  the 
“White  City”  into  ashes.  He  does  public  hospital  duty  during 
the  brutal  winter  of  economic  depression  after  the  Exposition 
closes.  And  he  is  inevitably  drawn  into  the  violence  and 
class-hatred  of  the  Pullman  Strike. 

He  emerges  from  all  this  a  more  decent  person  and  a 
stronger  individual,  as  Herrick  always  wanted  his  pro¬ 
tagonists  to  be.  At  the  end  of  the  novel,  Howard  Sommers 
is  preparing  to  assume  a  modest  neighborhood  practice 
somewhere  in  the  city,  a  practice  that  will  allow  him  to  live 
and  heal  far  from  the  social  extremes  of  Lake  Forest  and 
Pullman — in  the  vast  land  of  the  American  average.  For, 
as  Herrick  has  the  protagonist  of  a  later  novel  say,  “The 
great  end  cannot  come  through  political  action,  by  theory 
or  programme,  by  a  division  of  spoils... but  only  by  Will — 
the  individual  good  will.””  If  Robert  Herrick’s  Chicago 
novels  still  resonate  today — and  they  certainly  do  for  me — it 
is  because  this  is  one  of  the  deepest  American  beliefs.  And 
we  feel  that  for  his  characters  the  belief  is  earned. 

Another  novel  based  on  the  Pullman  Strike,  but  without 
the  literary  appeal  of  The  Web  of  Life,  is  The  Man  of  the 
Hour  (1906),  by  “Octave  Thanet”  (Mary  Alice  French),  a 
popular  writer  who  occasionally  used  Illinois  subjects  in  her 
fiction  (she  was  from  Davenport,  Iowa).  The  Man  of  the 
Hour  is  the  story  of  one  Johnny-Ivan  Winslow,  who  is  the 
unlikely  offspring  of  a  New  England  patrician  father  and  a 
Russian  anarchist  princess.  In  his  radical  period  he’s  “Ivan,” 
when  he’s  learned  the  proper  lessons  of  paternal  capitalism 
he’s  “John” — but  in  between  he’s  just  plain  “Johnny,”  and 
wondering  like  millions  of  others  what’s  to  become  of 
America  in  the  labor  strife  of  the  1890s.  The  Man  of  the 
Hour  is  too  obviously  biased  toward  the  capitalist  viewpoint, 
but  it  does  make  interesting  use  of  the  issues  and  events  of 
the  Pullman  Strike.  And  in  this  respect,  at  least,  it  makes 
a  good  reading  in  contrast  with  the  unabashedly  pro-labor 
viewpoint  of  Nico  Bech-Meyer’s  A  Story  from  Pullmantown 
(1894),  which  has  the  narrative  virtue  of  immediacy  to  the 
events  described — life  in  the  company  town,  the  rise  of  the 
American  Railway  Union,  and  the  bitter  strife  of  the  Strike 
itself.  Both  novels,  however,  could  benefit  from  the  social 
balance  of  The  Web  of  Life,  which  is  believably  anti-capital 
without  elevating  labor  to  the  level  of  the  heroic. 

The  novels  of  Will  Payne  are  similar  to  Herrick’s  in 
their  use  of  contemporaneous  Chicago  events.  But  they  lack 
his  clarity  of  vision  and  his  literary  sophistication.  Jerry  the 
Dreamer  (1896)  is  the  story  of  a  young  journalist  from 
downstate  Tampico  who  comes  to  the  city  to  find  wealth 
and  glory.  He  doesn’t,  of  course,  which  is  one  of  the  standard 
“anti-Horatio-Alger”  attitudes  of  the  Chicago  character 


33 


study.  In  The  Money  Captain  (1898)  Payne  tried  his  hand 
at  a  situation  similar  to  the  one  Henry  Blake  Fuller  had 
earlier  used  in  The  Cliff-Dwellers:  the  crooked  business-do¬ 
ings  of  a  plutocrat  ineluctably  draw  in  a  number  of  lesser 
beings — some  of  them  fresh  from  the  country — who  are 
ambitious  for  affluence  and  bedazzled  by  the  magic  their 
bosses  seem  to  work  at  will  in  Chicago  business  and  poli¬ 
tics.  Mr.  Salt  (1903)  may  be  Payne’s  most  topical  novel. 
The  making  of  a  plutocrat  (the  Mr.  Salt  of  the  title)  is 
played  out  against  a  Chicago  (and  national)  backdrop 
which  includes  the  Exposition,  the  Pullman  Strike  and 
the  rise  of  William  Jennings  Bryan  as  the  political  prophet 
of  free  silver. 

Mr.  Salt  shares  with  Herrick’s  Memoirs  of  an  American 
Citizen  the  subject  of  the  will-to-power  in  Chicago  business, 
but  a  secondary  character  in  Payne’s  novel  typifies  the  Chi¬ 
cago  woman’s  search  for  success.  Elizabeth  Ross,  like  Thea 
Kronborg,  wants  to  become  an  opera  singer,  and  she  too 
comes  to  the  city  because  it  can  supply  the  means.  While 
Cather’s  portrait  of  Thea  in  The  Song  of  the  Lark  is  much 
deeper,  and  the  novel  as  a  whole  much  finer  than  Mr.  Salt, 
both  represent  important  and  sympathetic  treatments  Of 
women’s  ambition  in  Chicago.  As  does  Hamlin  Garland’s 
Rose  ofDutcher’s  Coolly  {\S95).  Rose  Dutcher,  a  blooming 
farm-girl  from  the  Wisconsin  coolly  country,  comes  to  the 
city  after  a  college  education  at  Madison  has  convinced  her 
of  a  literary  vocation.  Rose’s  only  musical  talent  seems  to 
be  whistling,  (the  novel  has  an  amusing  scene  in  which  she 
steals  the  evening’s  entertainment  at  a  fashionable  North 
Side  dinner-party  by  doing  some  down-home  whistling!), 
but  Garland  implies  that  she  will  make  a  good  poet — and  a 
good  woman  in  the  “new“  sense:  independent,  open-minded, 
and  integrating  country  and  city  into  a  single  whole  person¬ 
ality.  Again,  while  Rose  is  not  up  to  the  power  of  Cather’s 
The  Song  of  the  Lark,  the  two  novels  can  be  read  profitably 
together  (and,  fortunately,  both  are  in  print  in  paperback 
for  classroom  use). 

One  of  the  finest — and  most  unaccountably  neglected — 
of  Chicago  novels  by  and  about  women  is  Elia  Peattie’s 
The  Precipice  (1914).  The  book  is  strongly  feminist  in  tone 
and  message,  but  it  would  be  a  terrible  mistake  to  assume 
from  this  that  The  Precipice  is  not  also  a  fine  work  of 
literature.  Peattie’s  book  appeared  the  year  before  Cather’s, 
and  the  two  novels  share  one  and  the  same  vision  for  their 
heroines:  'both  Kate  Barrington  and  Thea  Kronborg  come 
from  small  heartland  towns  with  picturesque  names  (“Sil- 
vertree”  and  “Moonstone”)  whose  confinements  they  soon 
outgrow;  both  women  turn  to  the  city  to  meet  their  drama¬ 
tic  and  expansive  destinies;  and  both  eventually  gain 
spiritual  strength  and  individual  awareness  from  sojourn¬ 
ing  in  the  natural  sublimity  of  the  American  West.  The 
Precipice' s  Kate  Barrington  finds  her  vocation  in  social 
work  rather  than  art  and  music.  She  is  first  an  officer  ol 
the  Juvenile  Court  in  Chicago,  then  moves  steadily  toward 
a  position  of  national  prominence  in  the  theory  and  prac¬ 
tice  of  child  welfare  and  in  the  suffrage  movement,  becom¬ 
ing  a  sort  of  next-generation  Jane  Addams,  with  Addams 
herself  an  honored  presence  in  the  novel.  But  it  is  also 


significant  that  she  develops  into  an  effective  magazine 
journalist  for  her  causes  (Peattie  worked  for  many  yearsi 
at  the  Chicago  Tribune).  And  Kate  shows  the  same  deep 
and  intuitive  reserves  of  character,  the  same  unbreakable 
determination  as  Thea  Kronborg. 

The  Precipice  deserves  first  to  be  read,  then  to  be 
studied,  and  finally  to  be  “factored  in”  to  the  entire  set  of 
equations  that  make  up  Chicago  and  American  fiction.  The 
Precipice  is  long  and  rich  and  challenging — too  much  ol 
all  three  to  be  adequately  discussed  here.  But  let  me  offei 
just  one  example  from  the  narrative: 

He  had  the  effect  of  shutting  his  wife  out  of 
the  conversation;  of  definitely  snubbing  and 
discountenancing  her.  Kate  knew  it  had  always 
been  like  that,  though  when  she  had  been 
young  and  more  passionately  determined  to 
believe  her  home  the  best  and  dearest  in  the 
world....  she  had  overlooked  the  fact — had 
pretended  that  what  was  a  habit  was  only  a 
mood,  and  that  if  “father  was  cross  to-day,  he 
would  be  pleasant  tomorrow. “ 

Where  else  in  pre-World  War  I  American  fiction  is  then 
such  a  blunt  yet  thoroughly  understanding  criticism  of  thi 
domineering  father?  And  The  Precipice  sustains  this  sort  o 
wisdom  right  through  its  418  pages. 

Clara  McLaughlin’s  “Just  Folks”  (1910)  also  has  . 
protagonist  who  is  an  officer  of  the  Chicago  Juvenile  Court 
But  in  this  case  the  novel  is  much  more  concerned  wit! 
sentimental  snatches  of  immigrant  life  than  with  women" 
issues.  Beth  Tully’s  beat  is  the  19th  Ward,  along  Halste. 
and  Maxwell  Streets,  where  she  finds  daily  adventure  i 
protecting  the  kids  of  the  streets  from  the  city,  from  thei 
parents,  and  most  of  all  from  themselves.  While  “Ju: 
Folks”  sweetens  the  scene  a  bit  too  much  for  my  taste,  an 
is  somewhat  ethnocentric  in  its  view  of  recent  Europea 
immigrants,  the  novel  is  an  important  fictional  account  t 
the  travails  of  “Americanization"  (Jane  Addams  and  Hu 
House  naturally  figure  in  it),  and  can  ser\'e  as  a  balance  t 
the  extremely  negative  representation  of  the  settlement  proi 
ess  given  in  Upton  Sinclair’s  The  Jungle.  Once  again,  hov 
ever,  interested  readers  face  a  difficult  time  obtaining  a  cop 
to  read.  The  Jungle  is  every'where  available  in  paperbac 
(and  justly  so:  it  is  an  important  Chicago  and  .America 
book).  But  why  should  we  have  to  go  to  the  Newben 
Library  every  time  we  wish  to  sample  an  engagingly-writte 
novel  that  is  basically  cheerful  about  Chicago’s  tum-of-thi 
century  immigrant  neighborhoods? 

Thus  far  I’ve  been  mentioning  only  Chicago  novel 
perhaps  giving  the  impression  that  all  serious  charact 
studies  were  set  in  the  city.  Well,  almost  all  ot  them  wer 
and  for  the  unanswerable  reason  that  the  drama  of  urbaniz 
tion  was  the  most  compelling  social  phenomemon 
America,  and  made  Chicago  a  lasting  object  of  fascinatii 
to  literary  realists.  But  let  me  conclude  this  survey  of  19 
century  Illinois  fiction  by  journeying  very  quickly  bai 
downstate.  Brand  Whitlock's  The  Thirteenth  District  ( 190 


34 


one  of  the  few  social  novels  set  outside  of  Chicago.  It’s 
;tory  of  political  venality  centering  around  the  moral  de¬ 
ne  of  a  young  lawyer  named  Jerry  Garwood,  favorite  son 
“Grand  Prairie,  Illinois,”  and  freshman  member  of  Con- 
;ss  from  the  13th  District  (a  contrived  group  of  central 
nois  counties).  The  plot  turns  on  Garwood’s  “progres- 
e”  demoralization  (Whitlock  was  a  “Progressive”  of  a 
ferent  sort:  he  eventually  became  the  reform  mayor  of 
ledo,  Ohio),  caused  by  his  love  of  power,  his  shallow 
jtism,  and  the  abandonment  of  rooted,  small-town,  demo¬ 
tic  principles. 

In  the  end  Garwood  is  defeated  in  his  bid  for  election 
a  third  term,  beaten  by  a  coalition  of  politicos  whom  he 
1  betrayed  over  the  previous  four  years,  and  left  for  mor- 
/  dead — except  for  the  devotion  of  his  patient,  idealistic 
'e,  Emily,  who,  as  the  novel  closes,  makes  a  rhapsodic 
V  to  rehabilitate  her  husband  and  make  him  happy  with 
lot  that  destiny  had  cast  for  him — a  smaller  lot,  to  be 
e,  and  in  a  different  neighborhood  from  the  one  they  had 
id  in  during  the  political  salad-days.  This  shiny-eyed 
ling  isn’t  altogether  believable,  and  I  for  one  don’t  think 
rwood  is  worth  fooling  with.  But  Whitlock  accepted  the 
timental  19th  century  view  that  women  were  to  be  soci- 
’s  moral  and  democratic  salvation  (but  only  so  long  as 
y  didn’t  run  for  anything  or  go  into  business).  So  these 
rwoods  of  Grand  Prairie,  brought  down  from  a  false 
itocracy  into  the  ranks,  assume  a  middling  life,  on  a 
Idle-class  block,  in  a  middle-American  town.  No  doubt 
y  live  there  yet. 

The  old  court  house  in  Grand  Prairie,  its  mighty 
blocks  of  sandstone  evenly  browned  by  the  jus¬ 
tice  and  equity  of  the  rain  and  wind,  lifted  its 
Doric  columns  in  the  sunshine  of  a  June  morn¬ 
ing.  Under  the  cornice  of  its  pediment  the  spar¬ 
rows  were  scuffling,  and  in  the  elms  that  grew 
about,  dipping  their  boughs  in  a  stately  way  to 
the  breeze,  blue  jays  were  chattering,  while  the 
tame  squirrels,  the  legal  pets  of  the  county 
supervisors,  gamboled  impudently  on  the 
grass  and  on  the  graveled  walks.  Around  the 
four  sides  of  the  square  the  raw  brick  buildings 
stood  baking  in  the  sun,  and  at  the  long  hitch¬ 
ing  racks,  gnawed  during  years  of  cribbing, 
horses  were  stamping  and  switching  at  the 
flies.  On  any  other  Monday  morning  the  racks 
would  have  been  empty,  but  this  day  the  court 
house’s  weatherbeaten  doors,  fluttering  with 
old  notices  of  sheriff's  sales,  were  swung 
wide,  and  through  them  sauntered  lawyers  and 
jurymen  and  those  who  could  quit  the  pleasant 
benches  in  the  yard  outside  for  the  mild  excite¬ 
ment  of  the  June  term  of  the  Circuit  Court  that 
day  to  be  begun  and  holden.^^ 

lay  the  horses  are  cars,  the  hitches  are  parking  spaces; 
vel  is  concrete,  and  the  elms  are  gone.  But  the  rest  is 
ognizable  Illinois.  You  know  it  whether  you  live  there 
anly  come  down  weekends  to  be  “in  a  happy  state.” 


NOTES 

1 .  Frank  Luther  Mott,  Golden  Multitudes:  The  Story  of 
Best  Sellers  in  the  United  States  (New  York:  the  Mac¬ 
millan  Company,  1947),  pp.  193-194. 

2.  Alice  Payne  Hacked,  Seventy  Years  of  Best  Sellers  (New 
York:  R.  R.  Bowker  Company,  1967),  p.  12. 

3.  Seventy  Years  of  Best  Sellers,  p.  92. 

4.  Seventy  Years  of  Best  Sellers,  pp.  98,  100,  121. 

5.  Randall  Parrish,  When  Wilderness  Was  King  (Chicago: 
A.  C.  McClurg  and  Company,  1904),  pp.  256-57. 

6.  Marshall  Kirkman,  The  Romance  of  Gilbert  Holmes 
(Chicago:  the  World  Railway  Publishing  Company, 
1900),  p.  76. 

7.  James  D.  Hart,  The  Popular  Book:  a  History  of 
America’s  Literary  Taste  (New  York:  Oxford  Univer¬ 
sity  Press,  1950),  p.  206. 

8.  James  Corrothers,  The  Black  Cat  Club  (New  York: 
Funk  and  Wagnalls  Company,  1902),  pp.  58-59. 

9.  James  Corrothers,  In  Spite  of  the  Handicap  (New  York: 
George  Doran  Company,  1916),  pp.  137-139. 

10.  Kenny  J.  Williams  and  Bernard  Duffey,  eds.,  Chicago’s 
Public  Wits:  a  Chapter  in  the  American  Comic  Spirit 
(Baton  Rouge:  Louisiana  State  University  Press,  1983). 

11.  John  Habberton,  The  Jericho  Road  (Chicago:  Jansen, 
McClurg  and  Company,  1977),  p.  11. 

12.  Quoted  in  Hamlin  Hill,  Mark  Twain:  God’ s  Fool  (New 
York:  Harper  and  Row,  1973),  p.  9. 

13.  Edgar  Lee  Masters,  Mitch  Miller  (New  York:  the  Mac¬ 
millan  Company,  1920),  p.  262. 

14.  Francis  Grierson,  The  Valley  of  Shadows  (New  York: 
Houghton,  Mifflin  Company,  1909),  p.  77. 

15.  Belle  Owen,  A  Prairie  Winter  (New  York:  the  Outlook 
Company,  1903),  pp.  28-29. 

16.  Golden  Multitudes,  p.  191. 

17.  The  Popular  Book,  p.  197. 

18.  Clara  Burnham,  Sweet  Clover  (New  York:  Grosset  and 
Dunlap,  1894),  p.  181. 

19.  Sidney  Bremer,  “Lost  Continuities:  Alternative  Urban 

Visions  in  Chicago  Novels,  1890-1915”,  64 

(1981),  p.  36. 

20.  Sidney  Bremer,  “Willa  Cather’s  Lost  Chicago  Sisters,” 
in  Women  Writers  and  the  City,  Susan  Merrill  Squier, 
ed.  (Knoxville:  University  of  Tennessee  Press,  1984), 

p.  212. 

21.  Bremer,  “Willa  Cather’s  Lost  Sisters,”  p.  215. 

22.  Edith  Wyatt,  True  Love  (New  York:  McClure,  Phillips 
and  Company,  1903),  p.  90. 


35 


23.  Willa  Gather,  The  Song  of  the  Lark  (New  York: 
Houghton,  Miftlin  Company,  1915),  p.  200. 

24.  Robert  Herrick,  The  Web  of  Life  (New  York:  the  Mac¬ 
millan  Company,  1900),  p.  135. 

25.  Robert  Herrick,  A  Life  for  a  Life  (New  York:  the  Mac¬ 
millan  Company,  1910),  pp.  427-428. 


26.  Elia  Peattie,  The  Precipice  (Boston:  Houghton,  Mifflin 

Company,  1914),  p.  117.  ; 

27.  Brand  Whitlock,  The  Thirteenth  District  (Indianapolis: 
the  Bowen-Merrill  Company,  1902),  p.  195. 

( 


FICTION  TO  1915 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 


This  list  of  titles  is  highly  selective,  having  been  culled 
n  the  many  hundreds  of  novels,  stories,  and  otherwise 
onalized  narratives  about  Illinois  from  its  earliest  French 
Colonial  days,  through  the  decades  after  statehood,  and 
the  early  20th  century.  It  attempts  to  strike  a  balance 
veen  Chicago  and  downstate  fiction,  while  at  the  same 
i  suggesting  worthy  titles  from  all  of  the  major  genres 
he  age:  the  historical  romance,  the  novel  of  domestic 
iment,  the  comedy  of  manners,  the  realistic  character 
ly,  and  the  novel  of  political  and  social  reform.  Titles 
1  annotations  are  either  those  still  in  print  today  in  inex- 
sive  paperbound  editions,  or  out-of-print  books  deserv- 
special  mention  (a  few  of  the  titles  without  annotations 
discussed  in  the  “Fiction  to  1915”  essay,  in  conjunction 
1  which  this  bibliography  should  be  used).  Readers  in- 
sted  in  the  plots  and  themes  of  the  many  remaining 
ks  of  fiction  about  Illinois  published  between  1800  and 
5  should  consult  the  definitive  bibliography  on  the  sub- 
;  Kilpatrick-Hoshiko’s  IltinoisHtlinois! 

,  George.  The  America  of  George  Ade  (1866-1944); 
Fables,  Short  Stories,  Essays  (Jean  Shepard,  ed.). 
New  York:  G.P.  Putnam’s  Sons,  1961. 

Though  out  of  print,  this  is  perhaps  the  best  anthology 
of  Ade’s  multifarious  writing. 

Artie:  A  Story'  of  the  Streets  and  Town.  Chicago:  Her¬ 
bert  S.  Stone  and  Co.,  1896. 

Ade's  first  book  is  a  series  of  sketches  growing  out 
of  his  Chicago  journalism.  The  city  scene  is  observed 
with  a  keen  eye  to  satire,  and  the  humor  is  still  fresh 
after  nearly  a  century. 

Doc’  Horne:  A  Story  of  the  Streets  and  Town.  Chicago: 
Herbert  S.  Stone  and  Co.,  1899. 

This  collection  of  vignettes  (again  from  Ade’s  copious 
journalistic  output),  is,  sadly,  the  only  one  of  his  books 
currently  in  print  (from  Irvington  Publishers). 

lerson,  Sherwood.  Windy  McPherson  s  Son.  New  York: 
John  Lane  Co. ,  1916.  [Chicago:  University  of  Chicago 
Press,  1965;  paperbound  edition  based  on  Anderson’s 
own  revisions  of  1922] 

This  was  Anderson’s  first  published  novel,  the  story 
of  young  Sam  McPherson,  who  comes  to  Chicago 
from  Caxton,  Iowa  and  soon  becomes  a  major  force 
in  the  city’s  financial  and  business  world.  The  novel 
remains  readable  today,  despite  its  rather  grandiose 
claims  about  the  spirituality  and  romance  of  busi¬ 
ness.  [Note:  the  University  of  Chicago  Press  paper- 
bound  edition  has  recently  gone  out  of  print,  but 
copies  can  sometimes  be  obtained  from  the  larger 
textbook  suppliers.] 


Marching  Men.  New  York:  John  Lane  Co.,  1917. 

The  idealized  and  sometimes  preachy  story  of  Beau 
McGregor’s  struggle  to  organize  the  works  of  Chicago 
into  one  big  union. 

Armstrong,  Leroy,  Byrd  Flam  in  Town;  Being  a  Collection 
of  that  Rising  Young  Author’ s  Letters.  .  .  .Chicago: 
John  Bearhope  Company,  1894. 

Letters  of  a  country  bumpkin  newly  in  Chicago,  writ¬ 
ten  back  home  to  True’s  Mills,  Indiana.  A  good  exam¬ 
ple  of  late  19th  century  American  humor. 

Austin,  Mary.  A  Woman  of  Genius.  Garden  City,  N.Y.: 
Doubleday,  Page  and  Company,  1912. 

An  interesting  problem  novel  about  a  woman’s  dif¬ 
ficult  choices  between  marriage  and  a  career. 

Bacheller,  Irving.  A  Man  for  the  Ages.  Indianapolis:  The 
Bobbs-Merrill  Co.,  1919. 

Barton,  William.  The  Prairie  Schooner;  A  Story'  of  the  Black 
Hawk  War.  Boston:  W.A.  Wilde  Co.,  1900. 

Bech-Meyer,  Nico.  A  Story  from  Pullmantown.  Chicago: 
Charles  H.  Kerr  and  Company,  1894. 

Social  novel  about  the  Pullman  Strike  from  labor’s 
point  of  view. 

Bonney,  Edward.  Banditti  of  the  Prairies.  Chicago:  Ed¬ 
ward  Bonney,  Publisher,  1850. 

Often  said  to  be  the  first  novel  published  in  Chicago, 
Bonney’s  book  might  better  be  classified  as  personal 
reminiscence  (indeed  many  libraries  treat  it  as  such). 
Banditti  chronicles  the  murderous  violence  of  the  Il¬ 
linois  frontier,  from  the  Rock  Island  area  to  Nauvoo, 
where,  as  might  be  expected,  the  author  includes  a 
typical  attack  on  Joseph  Smith  and  the  Mormons.  For 
all  its  faults.  Banditti  of  the  Prairies  has  proved  an 
enduring  piece  of  western  Americana.  The  University 
of  Oklahoma  Press  published  a  scholarly  edition  (ed. 
by  Phillip  Jordan)  in  1963. 

Brown,  Katharine  Holland.  Diane;  A  Romance  of  the  Icarian 
Settlement  on  the  Mississippi  River.  New  York: 
Doubleday,  Page  and  Co.,  1904. 

Burnham,  Clara  Louise.  Sweet  Clover:  A  Romance  of  the 
White  City.  Boston:  Houghton,  Mifflin,  1894. 

The  Columbian  Exposition  as  complete  setting.  This 
longish  love  story  emphasizes  the  transcendent 
idealism  of  the  “Fair,”  in  sharp  distinction  to  the  crit¬ 
ical  tradition  established  by  Robert  Herrick  and  other 
male  novelists. 


37 


Bushnell,  William,  Prairie  Fire! .  Chicago:  Walter  B.  Sloan, 
Publisher,  1854. 

Bushnell  was  one  of  the  most  popular  and  prolific  of 
the  early  Chicago  editors  and  writers.  Prairie  Fire!  is 
a  Cooperesque  romance  of  lost  maidens  and  Indian 
captivities,  set  on  the  central  Illinois  prairies. 

Carr,  Clark.  Thelllini.  Chicago;  A.C.  McClurgandCo.,  1904. 

Cather,  Willa.  The  Song  of  the  Lark.  Boston:  Houghton, 
Mifllin,  1915.  [Houghton,  Mifflin,  1983). 

Though  only  two  sections  of  this  lengthy  novel  are 
set  in  Chicago,  the  story  as  a  whole  deserves  consid¬ 
eration  as  Illinois,  or  at  least  midwestern,  literature. 
Thea  Kronborg,  the  protagonist,  lives  her  girlhood  on 
the  plains  of  eastern  Colorado  (Moonstone  is  the  name 
of  the  town),  then  moves  successively  further  eastward 
to  Chicago,  New  York,  and  Europe  in  her  quest  to 
become  a  great  artist  and  singer.  Without  question. 
The  Song  of  the  Lark  is  one  of  the  finest  treatments 
of  the  theme  of  a  small-town  childhood  as  preparation 
for  life  in  the  city  and  the  greater  world. 

Catherwood,  Mary  Hartwell.  Old  Kaskaskia  Boston; 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  1893. 

Spanish  Peggy:  A  Story  of  Young  Illinois.  Chicago: 
Herbert  S.  Stone,  1899. 

The  Spirit  of  an  Illinois  Town  and  the  Little  Renault; 
Two  Stories  of  Illinois  at  Different  Periods.  Boston; 
Houghton,  Mifflin,  1897. 

Chatfield-Taylor,  Hobart.  Two  Women  and  a  Fool.  Chicago: 
Stone  and  Kimball,  1895. 

Cooke,  Grace.  The  Grapple;  A  Story  of  the  Illinois  Coal 
Region.  Boston:  L.C.  Page  and  Co.,  1905. 

A  fair-minded  account  of  early  efforts  to  unionize 
coal-miners  in  Illinois. 

Corrothers,  James.  The  Black  Cat  Club.  New  York:  Funk 
and  Wagnalls  Company,  1902. 

A  rare  collection  of  black  Chicago  humor  and  folklore 
from  the  turn  of  the  century. 

Crane,  James.  The  Two  Circuits;  A  Story  of  Illinois  Life.  Chi¬ 
cago;  Jansen,  McClurg  and  Co.,  1877. 

A  novel  of  Methodist  itinerant  life,  reminiscent  in  its 
local  color  and  genre  materials  of  Edward  Eggleston's 
more  famous  The  Circuit  Rider  (1874). 

Curtis,  Wardon.  The  Strange  Adventures  of  Mr.  Middleton. 
Chicago:  Herbert  S.  Stone  and  Co.,  1903. 

A  quaint  sort  of  Chicago  1001  Nights 


Darrow,  Clarence.  An  Eye  for  an  Eye.  New  York:  Fox 
Duffield  and  Co.,  1905. 

Dell,  Floyd.  Moon-Calf.  New  York:  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1920 

The  Briary-Bush.  New  York;  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  192 

A  pair  of  autobiographical  novels  by  one  of  Chicago' 
young  literary  leaders  (until  he  moved  to  New  Yor 
in  1913).  Both  books  treat  the  “modem"  artist’s  strug 
gle  against  the  conventional  constraints  of  socieu 
first  in  small-town  Illinois  and  later  in  Chicago. 

Douglas,  Amanda.  A  Little  Girl  in  Old  Chicago.  New  York 
Dodd,  Mead  and  Co.,  1904. 

Dreiser,  Theodore.  Sister  Carrie.  New  York:  Doubledaj 
Page  and  Co.,  I9{X).  [Note;  In  1981  the  Universit 
of  Pennsylvania  Press  published  an  authoritative  ed 
tion  which  restored  some  of  Dreiser's  original  te- 
edited  out  by  Doubleday.  Sister  Carrie  is  currently  i 
print  in  several  inexpensive  paperbound  editions.] 

Sister  Carrie  was  Dreiser's  first  novel.  Infamous  i 
its  own  day  as  the  “immoral”  story  of  Carrie  .Meebe 
it  has  settled  comfortably  today  into  the  position  ( 
an  American  classic.  Sister  Carrie  divides  its  tin 
about  equally  between  Chicago  and  New  York,  wi 
the  title  character  gradually  making  her  way  towai 
economic  security  by  forming  sexual  liaisons  first  wi 
the  “drummer”  Drouet,  and  later  w  ith  the  richer  ai 
more  fashionable  saloon-manager  Hurstwood.  For 
contemporary  audience,  the  novel’s  mild  sexual  darii 
is  not  a  problem,  though  Dreiser's  ponderous  and  ove 
blown  style  may  be. 

Jennie  Gerhardt.  New  York;  Harper  and  Brother' 
191  1.  [New  York:  Shocken  Books.  1982] 

Dreiser's  answer  to  his  critics,  some  ten  years  aft« 
Sister  Carrie’s  less-than-enthusiastic  reception,  w; 
this  even  more  naturalistic  and  despairing  novel,  tf 
story  of  the  title  character’s  struggle  against  the  stackt 
deck  of  naturalistic  determinism,  and  her  final  stoic 
acceptance  of  a  life  of  loneliness  and  deprivatio: 
Probably  too  bleak  for  a  high-school  or  college  clas 
room,  despite  Dreiser's  detailed  Chicago  setting. 

The  Titan.  New  York:  John  Lane.  1914.  [New  Yor 
Signet  New  American  Library.  N.D.] 

In  some  ways  this  is  the  most  interesting  of  Dreiser 
three  great  Chicago  novels.  It  is  the  middle  volui 
of  his  “Trilogy  of  Desire,”  the  story  of  financier  Fra 
Cowperwood  (modeled  loosely  on  the  Chicago  irr- 
tion  magnate,  Charles  \'erkes).  covering  the  glc 
years  of  this  romanticized,  larger-than-life  busine- 
man. 

Eggleston.  Edward.  The  Graysons:  A  Story  of  Illinois.  N'* 
York:  The  Century  Co..  1887. 


38 


lham,  Eliza.  Life  in  Prairie  Land.  New  York:  Harper 
and  Brothers,  1846.  [N.P.:  Nieukoop,  B.  De  Graaf, 
1972] 

Though  more  properly  listed  under  non-fiction,  Life 
in  Prairie  Land  does  have  some  pronounced  fictional 
characteristics,  including  a  good  deal  of  dialogue  and 
a  number  of  interpolated  tales.  But  whether  fiction  or 
non-fiction,  the  book  is  an  impressive  creation;  roman¬ 
tic  in  the  Emersonian  sense,  alive  both  to  the  aesthetics 
of  the  virgin  prairie  landscape  and  the  mores  of  the 
fledgling  Illinois  society,  and  full  of  believable,  palp¬ 
able  characterizations.  The  reprint  edition  mentioned 
above,  while  too  expensive  for  classroom  use,  has  an 
excellent  introduction  by  Madeleine  Stern. 

1,  Roswell.  The  Bondage  of  Ballinger.  Chicago:  Flem¬ 
ing  H.  Revell  Co.,  1903. 

:,  Timothy.  The  Life  and  Adventures  of  Arthur  Cleaning . 
Philadelphia;  Tower  and  Hogan,  1828. 

One  of  the  earliest  published  novels  with  an  Illinois 
setting,  by  one  of  the  earliest  Mississippi  Valley  writers. 

ch,  Mary  Alice  [Octave  Thanet].  The  Heart  of  Toil. 
New  York:  Charles  Scribner’s  Sons,  1898. 

The  Man  of  the  Hour.  Indianapolis:  Bobbs-Merrill 
Company,  1905. 

Two  representative  titles  from  one  of  the  most  popular 
of  midwestern  turn-of-the-century  writers.  The  first  is 
a  collection  of  stories  dealing  with  labor  relations  from 
the  working  person’s  viewpoint;  the  second  written 
some  years  later  and  much  more  sympathetic  to  capital 
and  social  privilege,  is  a  novel  about  the  reconstruction 
of  a  former  radical,  Johnny-lvan  Winslow. 

Iman,  Lsaac.  The  Lucky  Number.  Chicago:  Way  and 
Williams,  1896. 

By  Bread  Alone.  New  York:  McClure,  Phillips  and 
Co.,  1901. 

Friedman  was  a  wealthy  socialist  whose  novels  and 
stories  form  a  sympathetic  if  sentimentalized  portrayal 
of  the  Chicago  underclass  around  1900. 

:r,  Henry  Blake.  The  Cliff-Dwellers.  New  York:  Har¬ 
per  and  Brothers,  1893  [New  York;  Irvington,  1981] 

Along  with  With  the  Procession,  this  novel  is  part  of 
Fuller’s  definitive  “comedy  of  manners  and  money” 
about  1890’s  Chicago.  It  is  the  story  of  several  related 
social  and  economic  rises  and  falls,  particularly  that 
of  George  Ogden,  an  easterner  who  loses  his  cultural 
bearings  in  the  welter  of  Chicago  business  life.  The 
action  is  played  out  largely  within  the  new  “skys¬ 
craper”  (the  Clifton)  from  which  the  novel  takes  its 
metaphorical  title. 


With  the  Procession.  New  York:  Harper  and  Brothers, 
1895.  [Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1967] 

This  very  fine  novel  tells  the  story  of  the  Marshall 
family  and  its  unsuccessful  attempt  to  rejoin  the  head 
of  Chicago’s  social,  economic,  and  cultural  proces¬ 
sion.  Jane,  the  most  thoughtful  of  the  Marshall 
daughters,  undertakes  their  social  rehabilitation,  while 
urging  her  father  David,  a  wholesale  grocer,  to  get 
involved  in  civic  philanthropy  and  affairs.  Jane  herself 
is  also  committed  to  social  welfare  projects  ala  Hull 
House  and  is  a  great  reader  and  attender  of  lectures. 
Though  none  of  her  plans  turns  out  perfectly,  and 
some  of  them  actually  end  up  hurting  the  family.  Fuller 
treats  Jane  with  comic  sympathy  and  makes  her  the 
ethical  norm  for  his  probing  novel. 

Under  the  Skylights.  New  York:  Appleton  and  Co., 
1901. 

Garland,  Hamlin.  Rose  of  Butcher’s  Coolly.  Chicago: 
Stone  and  Kimball,  1905.  [Lincoln,  Nebraska:  Univer¬ 
sity  of  Nebraska  Press,  1969] 

This  is  perhaps  Garland’s  best  novel.  Like  The  Song 
of  the  Lark  it  treats  the  initiation  of  a  young  country 
woman  into  the  myriad  life  of  Chicago.  Rose  Dutcher, 
having  spent  her  girlhood  on  her  father’s  Wisconsin 
farm  (hence  “Dutcher’s  Coolly),  goes  first  to  college 
in  Madison,  and  then  on  to  Chicago  to  “find  herself.” 
In  the  city,  aided  by  friends  and  a  conveniently- 
created  role  model  (a  woman  physician  named  Isabel 
Herrick),  Rose  eventually  discovers  her  vocation  as  a 
poet,  and  the  end  of  the  novel  shows  her  making  a 
commitment  to  it  that  will  preclude  many  of  the  more 
conventional  things  of  life — perhaps  including  even 
marriage  and  family.  Though  not  of  the  quality  of 
Cather’s  later  treatment  of  the  same  subject.  Rose  of 
Dutcher’s  Coolly  is  a  credible  account  of  a  romantic 
girl  who  becomes  a  strong  and  uncompromising 
woman.  As  such  it  makes  a  good  pairing  with  The 
Song  of  the  Lark. 

Gestenberg,  Alice.  Unquenched  Fire.  Boston:  Small, 
Maynard,  1912. 

Givens,  Robert.  Land  Poor;  A  Chicago  Parable.  Chicago: 
[The  Franklin  Printing  Co.,]  1884. 

Glaspell,  Susan.  The  Glory  of  the  Conquered.  New  York:  F. 
A.  Stokes,  1909. 

Gogin,  Oliver.  The  Country  Jake.  Montreal:  Broadway  Pub¬ 
lishing  Co.,  1903. 

Goodhue,  James.  Struck  A  Lead;  an  Historical  Tale  of  the 
Upper  Lead  Region.  Chicago;  Joseph  Cover.  Jr.,  Pub¬ 
lisher,  1883. 


39 


Grierson,  Francis.  The  Valley  of  Shadows.  Boston: 
Houghton,  Mifflin  Co.,  1909.  [New  Haven:  College 
and  University  Press,  1970] 

Strikingly  original  and  beautifully  written,  unforgetta¬ 
ble  once  read.  The  Valley  of  Shadows  is  Grierson’s 
masterwork  and  one  of  the  finest  evocations  of  time 
and  place  in  all  regionalist  literature.  While  the  book  is 
certainly  not  a  novel,  it  is  a  highly  fictionalized  re¬ 
miniscence,  and  the  first  12  chapters  (the  “Sangamon 
Sketches”)  have  a  thematic  unity  that  makes  them  pro¬ 
fitable  to  teach  either  in  high  school  or  college.  The 
lyricism,  dialect,  and  deeply  probing  symbolism  are  all 
splendidly  handled  by  Grierson  as  he  develops  what  he 
takes  to  be  the  archetypal  themes  of  Illinois  culture  in 
the  late  1850’s:  Lincoln,  the  garden,  evangelical  relig¬ 
ion,  and  the  approaching  apocalypse  of  the  Civil  War. 
The  College  and  University  Press  edition  provides  an 
accurate  text  and  an  authoritative  introduction  by 
Harold  P.  Simonson,  who  is  also  the  author  of  a  critical 
volume  on  Grierson. 

This  inexpensive  edition  makes  available  to  the  con¬ 
temporary  reader  some  of  Hall’s  best  stories,  including 
the  influential  “Indian  Hater.”  The  stories  were  orig¬ 
inally  published  between  1832  and  1835. 

Harris,  Frank.  The  Bomb .  New  York:  Mitchell  Kennerley, 
1909. 

A  detailed  fictional  account  of  the  Haymarket  affair 
of  1886.  Harris’  protagonist,  an  anarchist  named 
Schnaubelt  (invented  rather  than  historical)  throws 
the  fatal  bomb,  escapes  to  Bavaria,  and  from  there 
follows  the  trial  and  subsequent  execution  of  several 
innocent  men. 

Hay,  John.  John  Hay’s  Pike  County.  George  Monteiro,  ed. 
Macomb,  Illinois:  Western  Illinois  University  Mono¬ 
graph  Series,  Number  3,  1984. 

This  inexpensive  and  useful  paperbound  republishes 
seven  of  Hay’s  local  color  ballads  and  his  two  tales 
from  1 869  and  1871,  “The  Foster-Brothers”  and  “The 
Blood-Seedling.” 

Herrick,  Robert.  Chimes.  New  York:  the  Macmillan  Co., 
1926. 

This  late  novel  is  an  unflattering  treatment  of  the  Uni¬ 
versity  of  Chicago,  where  Herrick  taught  for  more 
than  twenty  years. 

The  Common  Lot.  New  York:  the  Macmillan  Co. ,  1904. 

The  Gospel  of  Freedom.  New  York:  the  Macmillan 
Co.,  1898. 


The  ironic  first-person  “autobiography”  of  Van  Har¬ 
rington,  country  boy  from  Indiana  who  makes  it  big 
in  Chicago’s  meatpacking  industry  by  pulling  himself 
up  by  other  people’s  bootstraps  and  then  taking  all 
the  credit  (and  all  the  profit,  too).  Memoirs  is  an 
eminently  teachable  book,  and  Herrick’s  use  of  real 
events  in  Chicago  labor  history — notably  the  Haymar¬ 
ket  affair — makes  the  novel  an  entertaining  way  of 
introducing  students  to  the  important  social  issues  in 
Chicago  during  the  years  1880-1900. 

The  Web  of  Life.  New  York:  the  Macmillan  Co.,  1900. 

Hirsch,  Charlotte.  The  Cage.  New  York:  D.  Appleton  and 
Co.,  1907 

An  honest  look  at  the  life  of  the  working  poor  in  the 
pre-Haymarket  years  in  Chicago. 

Holbrook,  Elizabeth.  Old’  Kaskia  Days.  Chicago:  the 
Schulte  Publishing  Co.,  1893. 

Holley,  Marietta.  Samantha  at  the  World’s  Fair.  New  York: 
Funk  and  Wagnalls,  1893. 

Long  and  loosely  organized  narrative  by  one  of  the 
late  19th  century’s  most  popular  humorists. 

Humphreys,  Mary.  Jack  Racer.  New  York:  McClure,  Phil¬ 
lips  and  Co.,  1901 . 

Small-town  (Pekin)  saga  of  the  title  character  and  those 
he  influences  during  a  career  in  law,  legislating  and 
love. 

Kirkland,  Joseph.  Zury:  The  Meanest  Man  in  Spring  County. 
Boston:  Houghton,  Mifflin.  1887.  [facsimile  reprint. 
University  of  Illinois  Press,  1956,  with  an  introduction 
by  John  T.  Flanagan] 

Though  long  and  out  of  print,  Zury  is  truly  an  Illinois 
classic,  the  one  “downstate”  novel  strong  enough  tc 
keep  company  with  the  dozen  or  so  fine  Chicago  fic¬ 
tions  of  the  same  era.  Kirkland’s  self-styled  "realistic' 
novel  is  in  fact  a  homely  romance  of  pioneering  ir 
the  expansive  years  after  the  War  of  1812.  The  title 
character  (Zury  is  short  for  “Usur>  ”!)  is  a  memorable 
mix  of  comic  parsimony,  shrewd  dialect  wit,  anc 
mythic  pioneer. 

The  McVeys.  Boston:  Houghton.  Mifflin,  1888. 

A  sequel  to  Zury,  and  generally  regarded  as  inferioi 
to  the  earlier  work.  The  McVeys  is  nonetheless  full  ol 
local  color  and  history  from  Illinois  during  the  1 850's. 

The  Captain  of  Co.  K.  Chicago:  Dibble  Publishing 
Co..  1891. 


A  mildly  realistic  account  of  Illinois'  involvement  ir 
the  Civil  War. 


Memoirs  of  an  American  Citizen.  New  York:  the  Mac¬ 
millan  Co.,  1905.  [Cambridge:  Harvard  University 
Press,  1963] 


40 


T 


irkman,  Marshall.  The  Romance  of  Gilbert  Holmes.  Chi¬ 
cago:  The  World  Railway  Publishing  Company,  1900. 

Despite  the  unlikely  publisher,  and  Kirkman’s  dubious 
literary  credentials  (he  was  the  author  of  The  Science 
of  Railways  in  12  volumes),  this  is  a  fine  historical 
romance,  set  on  the  west  central  Illinois  prairies  during 
the  1820’s  and  30’s. 

lughlin,  Clara.  "Just  Folks" .  New  York:  the  Macmillan 
Co.,  1910. 

The  Penny  Philanthropist.  New  York:  Fleming  H. 
Revell  Co.,  1912. 

je,  Hannah.  The  World  Before  You.  Philadelphia: 
George  S.  Appleton,  1844. 

3cke,  David.  A  Paper  City.  New  York:  Charles  T.  Dillin- 
lam,  1879. 

A  vigorous  satire  of  town-booming  in  Illinois  at  mid¬ 
century,  but  seriously  flawed  by  its  sentimental  ro¬ 
mance  plot. 

[asters,  Edgar.  Mitch  Miller.  New  York:  the  Macmillan 
Co.,  1920. 

Idyllic  boyhood  in  “Old  Salem,  Illinois”  before  1900; 
similar  in  tone  and  idiom  to  Twain’s  Tom  Sawyer  and 
Huckleberry  Finn. 

hildren  of  the  Marketplace .  New  York:  the  Macmillan 
Company,  1922. 

A  historical  novel  set  in  Jacksonville  and  Chicago, 
1830-1860,  and  featuring  Stephen  Douglas  as  its  prin¬ 
cipal  real-life  personage. 

[orris,  Frank.  The  Pit;  A  Story  of  Chicago.  New  York: 
Doubleday,  Page  and  Co.,  1903. 

The  rise  and  fall  of  Board  of  Trade  magnate  Curtis 
Jadwin,  whose  comer  in  wheat  fails  only  because  of 
the  fecundity  of  nature  herself. 

i’Brien,  Howard.  New  Men  for  Old.  New  York:  Mitchell 
Kennerley,  1914. 

A  business  novel  with  a  difference:  a  benevolent  em¬ 
ployer  and  a  positive  outcome;  also  has  interesting 
descriptions  of  contemporary  Chicago  architecture. 

)wen.  Belle.  A  Prairie  Winter.  New  York:  The  Outlook 
Co.,  1903. 

Quietly  lyrical  jounal  of  a  winter  season  on  the  north¬ 
ern  Illinois  prairie. 

*arkhurst,  Henry.  A  Military  Belle.  New  York:  F.  Tennyson 
Neely,  1898. 


One  of  the  better  historical  romances  about  the  Black 
Hawk  War. 

Parrish,  Randall.  When  Wilderness  was  King.  Chicago:  A.C. 
McClurg  and  Co.,  1904. 

Patterson,  Joseph.  Rebellion.  Chicago:  Reilly  and  Britton 
Co.,  1911. 

Payne,  Will.  Jerry  the  Dreamer.  New  York:  Harper  and  Bro¬ 
thers,  1896. 

The  Money  Captain.  Chicago:  Herbert  S.  Stone  and 
Co.,  1898. 

Mr.  Salt.  Boston:  Houghton,  Mifflin  and  Co.,  1903. 

Three  important  and  readable  novels  from  tura-of-the- 
century  Chicago,  all  using  important  historical  events 
in  a  developed  urbann  setting. 

Peattie,  Elia.  The  Precipice.  Boston:  Houghton,  Mifflin 
Co.,  1914. 

A  neglected  novel  from  the  “Chicago  Renaissance” 
that  deserves  to  be  better  known.  Kate  Barrington, 
from  the  small  midwestem  town  of  Silvertree,  goes 
to  the  city  to  get  an  education  at  the  University  of 
Chicago,  but  then  returns  home  to  her  family  and  a 
somewhat  cramped  existence.  Following  her  mother’s 
death,  Kate  once  again  moves  to  Chicago  and  becomes 
a  social  worker,  gradually  discovering  a  strong  polit¬ 
ical  and  moral  commitment  to  equal  rights  for  women. 

Perley,  T.  E.  From  Timber  to  Town;  Down  in  Egypt.  Chi¬ 
cago:  A.  C.  McClurg  and  Co.,  1891. 

Richardson,  John.  Hardscrabble;  or.  The  Fall  of  Chicago.  A 
Tale  of  Indian  Warfare.  New  York:  DeWitt  and 
Davenport,  1856. 

A  rousing  and  sanguinary  adventure  in  the  mode  of 
Robert  Montgomery  Bird’s  Nick  of  the  Woods. 

Roe,  Edward.  Barriers  Burned  Away.  New  York:  Dodd  and 
Mead,  1872. 

[New  York:  Irvington  Publishers,  N.D.] 

This  didactic  novel  is  remembered  for  its  description 
of  the  1871  Chicago  Fire  (one  of  the  first  in  fictional 
print),  but  in  fact  the  story  is  several  hundred  pages 
of  tedious  romance  and  religious  moralizing,  while 
the  fire  itself  is  a  short  interlude  of  lurid  excitement. 

Sheldon,  Charles.  In  His  Steps.  Chicago:  Advance  Publish¬ 
ing  Co.,  1898.  [New  York:  Putnam,  N.D.] 

This  odd  and  enormously  successful  story,  subtitled 
“What  would  Jesus  do?,”  was  written  by  a  Topeka, 
Kansas  Congregational  minister,  set  in  a  fictional 
downstate  Illinois  town  (and  then  in  Chicago),  and 


w 

o 


CO 

CJ1 


*T3 

O 

m 


-< 


41 


\IEN  !  SUPPLEMENTARY 

'  BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


read  all  across  America  in  the  years  following  its  pub¬ 
lication.  The  novel  represents  the  genesis,  growth, 
and  social  triumph  of  an  evangelical  movement  based 
on  emulation  of  Jesus  in  all  ethical  matters.  In  His 
Steps  has  had  a  lasting  popularity:  in  1985  there  are 
more  than  half  a  dozen  editions  in  print  (most  from 
small  Christian  publishers). 

Sinclair,  Upton.  The  Jungle.  New  York:  Doubleday,  Page 
and  Co.,  1906.  [New  York:  Bantam,  N.D.] 

The  Jungle  is  one  of  the  most  effective  “political” 
novels  ever  written,  and  one  of  the  few  Illinois  classics 
that  obviously  belongs  to  the  whole  American  nation. 
Though  centrally  concerned  with  exposing  the  hor¬ 
rendous  working  conditions  in  Chicago’s  “Packing- 
town”  around  the  turn  of  the  century,  and  determined 
to  preach  its  call  for  socialist  revolution,  Sinclair’s 
novel  is  at  its  most  engaging  in  dramatizing  the  failure 
of  “Americanization”:  what  the  Lithuanian  Rudkus 
family  loses  in  Chicago  is  everything  from  their  mother 
culture  that  makes  them  human  andjiappy;  what  they 
gain  in  the  city — the  few  that  survive — is  a  denatured 
and  devalued  material  subsistence.  Sinclair’s  bleak 
vision  (which  he  optimistically  thought  would  soon 
be  redeemed  by  socialism)  makes  for  oppressive  but 
compelling  reading.  Hence  The  Jungle  forms  a  good 
teaching  companion  to  Jane  Addams’  equally  classic 
but  much  more  positive  account  of  “Americanization,” 
Twenty  Years  at  Hull  House  (1909). 

Tarbell,  Ida.  He  Knew  Lincoln.  New  York:  McClure,  Phil¬ 
lips  and  Co.,  1907. 

Tarkington,  Booth.  Penrod.  New  York:  Doubleday,  Page 
and  Co.,  1914. 

While  Tarkington  and  his  work  are  usually  associated 
with  Indiana,  Penrod  is  said  to  be  based  on  the  author’s 
memories  of  visiting  relatives  in  Illinois.  Penrod  is  a 
classic  of  American  juvenilia,  still  in  print  today, 
though,  not  in  paperback. 

Tobenkin,  Elias.  Witte  Arrives.  New  York:  Frederick  A. 
Stokes  Co.,  1916. 

A  novel  about  the  “Americanization”  of  a  Russian 
Jewish  immigrant,  Emil  Witte,  who  perseveres  in  the 
strange  new  world  of  Chicago  in  the  1890’s,  and  fi¬ 
nally  makes  it  as  a  big-time  journalist  in  New  York. 
The  story’s  positive  outcome  makes  a  nice  contrast  to 
other  novels  of  the  type,  notably  Upton  Sinclair’s  The 
Jungle  (see  above),  and  Abraham  Cahan’s  The  Rise 
of  David  Levinsky  (1917). 

Warren,  Maude.  The  Main  Road.  New  York:  Harper  and 
Brothers,  1913. 

Whitlock,  Brand.  The  13th  District.  Indianapolis:  Bobbs- 
Merrill  Co.,  1902. 


A  reform-minded  novel  by  a  man  who  would  later  be 
the  progressive  reform  mayor  of  Toledo,  Ohio.  The 
13th  District  is  an  objective  account  of  corruption  in 
politics — in  this  case  in  the  13th  Illinois  congressional 
district  downstate. 

Wilkey,  Walter.  Western  Emigration;  Narrative  of  a  Tour- 
to...  “Edenshurg"  (Illinois).  New  York:  G.  Clair- 
borne,  and  Others,  Publishers,  1839. 

An  effective  early  satire  of  land-booming  in  Illinois. 

Wilson,  Harry.  The  Boss  of  Little  Arcady.  Boston:  Loth- 
rop,  Lee  and  Shepard  Co.,  1905. 

A  whimsical  story  of  small-town  Illinois  after  the  Civil 
War,  saturated  with  local  color,  genre  characters  and 
scenes,  and  humor. 

Wyatt,  Edith.  True  Love.  New  York:  McClure,  Phillips  and 
Co.,  1903. 

An  engaging  comedy  of  manners,  reminiscent  of  the 
novels  of  Henry  Blake  Fuller,  set  in  Chicago  and  the 
fictional  downstate  town  of  Centerville. 

SECONDARY  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

As  with  the  primary  titles,  this  list  is  selective,  high¬ 
lighting  the  critical  writing  on  Illinois  fiction  1800-1915  (or 
thereabouts).  No  attempt  has  been  made  to  list  all  (or  even 
most)  of  the  journal  articles  on  individual  authors  or  works: 
such  an  exhaustive  compilation  is  beyond  the  scope  of  the 
Reader’s  Guide,  which  is  primarily  intended  to  help  teachers 
and  geperal  readers  to  find  texts  and  criticism  of  obscure 
writers.  And,  in  the  case  of  major  figures  such  as  Theodore 
Dreiser  or  Frank  Norris,  there  is  a  rich  tradition  of  well- 
known  critical  writing  that  need  not  be  mentioned  here.  All 
the  books  listed  below  are  easily  accessible  in  public  and  uni¬ 
versity  libraries,  and  a  fair  number  are  currently  in  print. 

Anania,  Michael.  “A  Commitment  to  Grit."  Chicago.  32 
(Nov.  1983),  pp.  200-207. 

A  contemporary  poet  and  novelist  living  in  Chicage 
reflects  on  a  century'  and  more  of  Chicago  fiction. 

Andrews,  Clarence.  Chicago  in  Story:  A  Literary'  History. 
Iowa  City:  Midwest  Heritage  Publishing  Co..  1982. 

An  inclusive  but  difficult-to-use  compendium  ol 
information  about  Chicago  literature.  Chicago  in  Story 
is  a  rich  sourcebook  for  those  who  are  willing  to  be  pa¬ 
tient  searchers. 

Bremer,  Sidney.  “Lost  Continuities:  Alternative  Urban  Vis 
ions  in  Chicago  Novels,  1890-1915.”  Soundings.  6- 
(1981),  29-51. 

“Willa  Cather’s  Lost  Chicago  Sisters."  In  Wome 
Writers  and  the  City  (Susan  Merrill  Squier.  ed. 
Knoxville:  University  of  Tennessee  Press,  1984. 


42 


These  two  closely  interrelated  essays,  once  they  are 
more  widely  read  by  scholars  and  critics,  should  do 
much  to  change  the  way  we  think  about  the  Chicago 
novel.  Bremer’s  argument  is  that  there  exists  a  signif¬ 
icant  group  of  Chicago  novels  by  women,  published 
between  1890  and  1915,  which  have  not  been  read, 
appreciated,  and  studied  with  anything  like  the  atten¬ 
tion  critics  have  given  to  Fuller,  Herrick,  Dreiser,  and 
others.  Hence,  she  believes,  we  have  an  incomplete 
and  flawed  image  of  Chicago  (indeed,  of  the  city  more 
generally  in  literature)  that  badly  needs  correction. 
According  to  Bremer,  Chicago  novels  by  women  “pre¬ 
sent  the  city  as  part  of  a  life  experience  that  is  continu¬ 
ous,  embedded  in  natural  forces  and  in  communal  ties 
and  conflicts.”  This  vision  is  opposed  to  what  she 
calls  the  “objectifying”  urban  imagery  of  the  male 
novelists,  an  imagery  that  forms  an  important  part  of 
their  overall  negative  view  of  the  city  and  its  human 
and  social  prospects. 

/,  Robert.  Rediscoveries:  Literature  and  Place  in  Il¬ 
linois.  Champaign:  University  of  Illinois  Press,  1982. 

Critical  essays  on  classic  and  lesser-known  Illinois 
literature,  mostly  fiction,  from  the  early  19th  century 
until  the  eve  of  World  War  I.  Rediscoveries  analyzes 
relatively  few  texts,  but  does  look  at  them  as  artistic 
wholes  and  in  depth;  moreover,  it  attempts  to  synthe¬ 
size  Downstate  and  Chicago  into  a  single  literature  of 
Illinois  and  to  relate  19th  century  Illinois  culture  and 
landscape  to  the  contemporary  scene. 

mer.  Dale.  Chicago  Renaissance.  New  York;  Appleton- 
Century,  1966. 

An  engagingly  written  and  generally  reliable  history 
of  the  so-called  “Chicago  Renaissance”  (1910-1925) 
in  letters. 

fey,  Bernard.  The  Chicago  Renaissance  in  American 
Letters.  East  Lansing:  Michigan  State  College  Press, 
1954. 

Duffey’s  book  has  the  reputation  among  scholars  as 
the  best  critical  account  of  the  “Chicago  Renaissance”.’ 
Strong  on  social  history  and  sources;  less  good  in  its 
judgments  of  value. 

can,  Hugh.  The  Rise  of  Chicago  as  a  Literary  Center. 
Totowa,  N.J.:  Bedminster  Press,  1964. 

A  sociological  study  of  Chicago’s  literary  culture,  con¬ 
centrating  on  the  years  between  1885  and  1920,  and 
emphasizing  literature’s  derivation  from  journalism. 

y,  Lennox.  “Chicago  and  the  ‘Great  American  Novel.’” 
University  of  Chicago,  PhD.  dissertation,  1935. 

Still  a  standard  reference,  listing  some  500  novels 
about  Chicago  published  to  its  date. 

Iwas,  John.  “Eliza  Famham’s  Life  in  Prairie  Land.  ”  The 
Old  Northwest,  1  (1981-82),  pp.  136-45. 

“Early  Illinois  Author  John  L.  McConnel  and  ’The 


Ranger’s  Chase’”.  Journal  of  the  Illinois  State  Histor¬ 
ical  Society,  73  (1980),  pp.  177-188. 

Both  of  these  articles  are  important  contributions  to 
the  ongoing  rediscovery  of  earlier  1 9th  century  down- 
state  literature,  especially  books  and  short  stories  by 
little-known  or  unknown  writers. 

Hurt,  James.  “Images  of  Chicago,”  in  Roger  Bridges  and 
Rodney  Davis,  eds.,  Illinois:  Its  History  and  Legacy. 
St.  Louis;  River  City  Press,  1984. 

A  survey  of  literature  about  Chicago,  analyzing  the 
major  images  by  which  writers  have  tried  to  understand 
the  city. 

Kilpatrick,  Thomas  L.  and  Patsy-Rose  Hoshiko.  Illinois! 
Illinois!  An  Annotated  Bibliography  of  Fiction. 
Metuchen,  N.J.:  Scarecrow  Press,  1979. 

An  astonishing  and  monumental  labor;  1554  books 
(either  novels  or  short-story  collections)  about  Illinois, 
with  every  entry  read  and  annotated  by  the  compilers. 
Obviously,  Illinois,  Illinois  is  an  essential  reference 
for  the  study  of  the  state’s  literature. 

Nemanic,  Gerald,  ed.  A  Bibliographical  Guide  to  Midwest¬ 
ern  Literature.  Iowa  City;  University  of  Iowa  Press, 
1981. 

Contains  a  valuable  section  on  Illinois. 

Rogers,  Bernard.  “The  Chicago  Novel.”  Illinois  Issues,  9 
(Nov.  1983),  pp.  17-24. 

Smith,  Carl.  Chicago  and  the  American  Literary  Imagina¬ 
tion,  1880-1920.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago 
Press,  1984. 

Smith  approaches  the  literature  of  Chicago  from  an 
interdisciplinary  point  of  view  (literary  criticism  and 
urban  studies  principally).  He  organizes  his  study 
around  the  Chicago  subjects  that  seemed  to  be  most 
important  to  the  writers  of  the  period;  business,  rail¬ 
roads,  buildings,  and  the  Stockyards.  While  not  lim¬ 
ited  to  fiction.  Smith’s  book  does  discuss  a  good 
number  of  novels,  some  of  them  not  at  all  well  known 
(Will  Payne’s  fiction,  for  example).  Because  Chicago 
and  the  American  Literary  Imagination  was  published 
in  paperback  (albeit  still  rather  expensive  at  $15),  it 
might  well  be  used  as  the  organizing  text  in  a  course 
on  Chicago  literature,  either  at  the  advanced  high- 
school  or  undergraduate  level. 

Williams,  Kenny.  In  the  City  of  Men:  Another  Story  of 
Chicago.  Nashville;  Townsend  Press,  1974. 

Prairie  Voices:  A  Literary  History  of  Chicago  from  the 
Frontier  to  1893.  Nashville,  Townsend  Press,  1980. 

The  former  of  these  concentrates  mainly  on  the  1 890’s, 
while  the  latter  (a  very  compendious  work)  covers,  in 
addition  to  novels,  journalism  and  non-fiction  narra¬ 
tive.  Prairie  Voices  is  quite  useful  as  a  sourcebook, 
and  has  valuable  appendices  on  the  publishing  of 
Chicago  fiction. 


43 


9*  M'S' 


III.  FICTION  SINCE  1915 
by  James  Hurt 


Travelers  in  the  vast  emptiness  of  the  early  Illinois 
)rairies  used  to  travel  “point  to  point”;  they  would  take  a 
ix  on  some  landmark  in  the  direction  they  were  going, 
ravel  to  that,  and  then  pick  another  goal.  The  1554  items 
n  the  Kilpatrick-Hoshiko  bibliography  of  Illinois  fiction 
ind  even  the  109  items  in  the  present  selective  bibliography 
)erhaps  constitute  academic  prairies,  flat  lists  of  titles  insuf- 
Iciently  differentiated  for  easy  negotiation. 

Let  us  see  if  we  too  can  travel  “point  to  point”  and 
elect  a  short  list  of  titles  around  which  we  can  orient  our- 
elves.  This  might  well  take  the  form  of  a  reading  list  for 
i  very  short  course  on  modem  Illinois  fiction,  with  running 
uggestions  of  items  “for  further  reading.”  There  is  no  im- 
ilication  that  the  titles  on  the  list  are  the  “best”  (“And  now 
he  envelope,  please.”),  only  that  they  are  convenient 
;xemplars  of  some  major  topics  in  Illinois  fiction.  For  the 
ake  of  discussion,  we  might  identify  four  such  topics 
“units”  in  our  mini-course):  The  Coming  of  Modernism, 
[he  Chicago  Tradition,  The  Chicago  Anti-Tradition,  and 
[he  Contemporary  Illinois  Novel. 

Virginia  Woolf  dated  the  advent  of  modernism  as  “in 
)r  about  December,  1910,”  when,  she  said,  “human  charac- 
er  changed.”^  Illinois  figured  heavily  in  that  change,  through 
he  work  of  the  writers  of  the  Chicago  Renaissance,  but  no 
;uch  precise  date  can  be  fixed  for  the  coming  of  modernism 
n  Illinois  fiction.  The  nineteenth-century  novel  died  and 
he  modern  novel  was  born  somewhere  around  the  time 
)f  the  First  World  War,  but  birth-and  death-dates  are 
inavailable.  We  might  begin  our  bare-bones  mini-course, 
hough,  by  sampling  some  Illinois  fiction  of  the  years  just 
ifter  the  Chicago  Renaissance.  Ben  Hecht’s  Erik  Dorn 
1921)  or  Sherwood  Anderson’s  Illinois  stories — “The 
friumph  of  a  Modern,”  “A  Chicago  Hamlet,”  “Milk  Bot- 
les,”  and  “The  Man’s  Story”  (all  1923) — would  all  be 
ippropriate  for  this  purpose. 

Let  us  take  “Milk  Bottles”  as  a  brief  example  of  what 
nodemism  meant  in  terms  of  Illinois  fiction.’  It  is  a  slight 
itory,  only  eight  pages  long,  and  seems  at  first  to  consist 
)nly  of  a  handful  of  loosely  connected  anecdotes.  The 
;peaker  is  a  writer  living  through  a  scorching  hot  summer 
n  a  rooming  house  on  the  North  Side  of  Chicago.  Very 
ate  one  night,  “a  little  off  his  head”  from  the  heat,  he 
Joes  for  a  walk  down  to  the  lake.  As  he  goes  out  into  the 
street,  a  half-filled  bottle  of  spoiled  milk  crashes  to  the 
pavement  near  him,  thrown  by  a  burlesque  actress  in  the 
■coming  house,  tense  and  angry  from  the  heat.  At  the 
akeside  park,  filled  with  families  sleeping  out-of-doors 
;o  escape  the  heat,  he  accidentally  knocks  over  another 
rialf-filled  bottle  of  sour  milk. 

On  his  way  back  to  his  apartment,  he  meets  a  friend 
named  Ed,  an  advertising  copy  writer  with  literary  aspira¬ 
tions.  Ed  invites  him  into  his  apartment  and  shows  him 
something  he  has  written; 


The  thing  he  had  written  concerned  some 
mythical  town  I  had  never  seen.  He  called  it 
Chicago,  but  in  the  same  breath  he  spoke  of 
great  streets  flung  up  into  night  skies,  and  a 
river,  running  down  a  path  of  gold  into  the 
boundless  West.  (308) 

On  the  floor,  however,  are  a  few  sheets  of  paper  on  which 
Ed  has  written,  in  a  fit  of  irritation  and  frustration,  something 
else  about  Chicago.  The  narrator  reads  it  quickly  before  Ed 
snatches  it  from  him  and  throws  it  out  the  window.  It  is  a 
slight  sketch  about  “a  half-filled  bottle  of  spoiled  milk  stand¬ 
ing  dim  in  the  moonlight  on  a  window  sill,”  but  it  strikes 
the  narrator  as  powerful  and  truthful,  unlike  the  overblow 
prose  Ed  is  so  proud  of.  It  is  “another  bit  of  the  kind  of 
writing  that  is — for  better  or  worse — really  presenting  the 
lives  of  the  people  of  these  towns  and  cities”  (309). 

So  far  the  story  has  been  full  of  pieces  of  writing:  Ed’s 
“false”  story  about  Chicago,  his  “true”  story,  and  the  nar¬ 
rator’s  own  work  in  progress.  But  there  is  yet  another  text 
in  this  text.  The  narrator  goes  home  and  spends  a  sleepless 
night  imagining  what  had  led  Ed  to  write  his  sketch  about 
the  milk  bottle.  He  imagines  that  Ed  has  been  given  a  rush 
assignment  at  the  advertising  agency  to  write  an  advertise¬ 
ment  for  condensed  milk.  Ed  has  produced  a  drawing  of  an 
idyllic,  pastoral  landscape  going  into  a  funnel  with  a  can 
of  condensed  milk  at  the  other  end.  The  ad/caption  reads: 
“The  health  and  freshness  of  a  whole  countryside  is  eon- 
densed  into  one  can  of  Whitney-Wells  Condensed  Milk.” 
He  has  gone  home  to  his  empty,  disorderly  apartment,  made 
a  sandwich,  discovered  that  his  milk  was  sour,  tried  futilely 
to  write,  and  gone  for  a  walk,  during  which  he  has  thought 
about  the  failures  of  his  youthful  dreams,  tried  to  talk  to  a 
woman  on  a  park  bench  (without  success),  and  overheard 
a  married  couple’s  banal  quarrel:  “You  come  in  here.  You 
can’t  put  that  over  on  me.  You  say  you  just  want  to  take  a 
walk,  but  I  know  you.  You  want  to  go  out  and  blow  in 
some  money.  What  I’d  like  to  know  is  why  you  don’t  loosen 
up  a  little  for  me”  (312).  He  has  gone  home  and  in  frustration 
written  his  milk-bottle  sketch  then  returned  to  his  lifeless, 
idealized  “serious”  writing. 

Even  in  a  summary  so  condensed  (like  the  milk),  the 
hall-of-mirrors  complexity  that  underlies  this  deceptively 
simple  story  should  be  clear.  The  many  embedded  texts, 
from  the  narrator’s  interrupted  story  to  the  milk  advertise¬ 
ment,  bounce  comically  off  each  other,  as  Ed  becomes  an 
ironic  double  for  the  narrator.  It  is  a  story  about  the  psychol¬ 
ogy  of  artistic  creation.  True  art,  the  narrator  suggests, 
comes  not  from  conscious,  high-minded  idealism  (“the 
health  and  freshness  of  a  whole  countryside”)  but  from  the 
unconscious  transformation,  perhaps  in  irritation  and  frust¬ 
ration,  of  the  details  of  reality:  Ed’s  real  sour  milk  as  opposed 
to  the  idealized  condensed  milk  of  the  ad  agency.  The  nar¬ 
rator’s  ironic  psychologizing  extends  to  himself  as  well;  he 
realized  that  the  idealized  figures  in  his  own  story — “a  cool- 
headed,  brave  people,  marching  forward  to  some  spiritual 
triumph” — are  really  only  a  displacement  of  Chicagoans 
looking  for  a  cool  place  to  sleep  on  a  hot  night. 


45 


From  a  slightly  different  point  of  view,  though,  “Milk 
Bottles"  is  not  just  a  whimsical  analysis  of  the  individual 
psychology  of  art  but  a  statement  of  Anderson’s  modernist 
credo.  The  narrator’s  abandoned  story  and  Ed’s  “serious” 
story,  with  its  river  “running  down  a  path  of  gold  into  the 
boundless  West,”  sound  remarkably  like  the  fiction  of  a 
previous  generation  of  Chicago  writers,  like  Frank  Norris’s 
The  Pit,  for  example,  or  Dreiser’s  Sister  Carrie,  which  for 
all  their  courage  in  dealing  with  contemporary  subject  matter 
had  only  the  language  and  fictional  techniques  of 
nineteenth-century  melodrama  to  do  so.  The  suggestion 
that  a  quick  sketch  of  “a  half-filled  bottle  of  spoiled  milk 
standing  dim  in  the  moonlight  on  a  window”  might  be 
more  “truthful”  than  an  overblown  urban  epic  is  a  revolutio¬ 
nary  one. 

Ultimately,  though,  the  model  for  a  modem  fiction  in 
“Milk  Bottles"  is  not  Ed’s  milk-bottle  sketch  but  the  story 
itself.  “Milk  Bottles”  is  self-referential,  folding  back  upon 
itself  and  both  containing  and  transcending  its  many  embed¬ 
ded  texts.  In  the  splittings  and  doublings  of  the  story, 
from  the  burlesque  actress  who  throws  the  initial  milk 
bottle  (“I  won’t  stand  it!  1  got  to  smash  everything!”);  to 
Ed,  juggling  his  condensed-milk  copy,  his  city  epic,  and 
his  milk-bottle  sketch;  to  the  narrator,  launched  by  a 
smashed  bottle  of  milk  on  a  midnight  stroll  that  becomes 
a  spiritual  odyssey  and  half-perceiving,  half-creating  his 
double  Ed  through  his  hot,  sleepless  night;  to  Anderson 
himself,  containing  all  these  milky  characters  in  a  story 
named  “Milk  Bottles,”  a  modernist  fiction  is  not  just  being 
described  but  is  being  created. 

This  fiction,  the  story  suggests,  will  have  certain  very 
specific  qualities.  One,  it  will  be  highly  personal  and  subjec¬ 
tive.  The  epic  panorama  of  a  “cool-headed,  brave  people" 
marching  down  “great  streets  flaming  with  color”  to  “some 
spiritual  triumph”  is  scaled  down  to  an  action  so  slight  that 
it  can  hardly  be  said  to  be  an  action  of  all:  a  walk  on  a  hot 
night  and  a  tentative,  indeterminate  encounter  with  a  friend. 
The  “story”  will  happen  almost  completely  within  the  mind 
of  the  narrator. 

Two,  it  will  be  a  fiction  of  epiphanic  fragments,  mo¬ 
ments  of  illumination  bound  together  less  by  narrative  logic 
than  by  oblique  associations  and  unique  personal  reactions. 
A  trivial  incident  (kicking  over  a  bottle  of  milk),  a  snatch 
of  banal  conversation  (“You  say  you  just  want  to  take  a 
walk,  but  I  know  you.”)  and  a  random  image  (a  bottle  half 
full  of  sour  milk)  can  all  strike  out  sparks  of  meaning  bound 
together  in  a  tenuous  and  precarious  emotional  whole. 

Three,  this  fiction  will  employ  a  chaste,  plain,  ironic 
style.  There  will  be  no  rivers  “running  down  a  path  of  gold 
into  the  boundless  West,”  but  rather  sentences  like  the  first 
one:  “1  lived,  during  that  summer,  in  a  large  room  on  the 
top  floor  of  an  old  house  on  the  North  Side  in  Chicago” — 
twenty-three  words  with  twenty  of  them  monosyllabic. 

Four,  and  finally  for  the  moment,  it  will  be  a  highly 
self-conscious  and  self-referential  fiction:  writing  about  it¬ 
self,  or  perhaps  better,  writing  that  uses  itself  as  a  metaphor 
for  the  acts  of  perception  and  understanding  with  which  it 
is  concerned. 


This  modernist  agenda  has  native  roots;  Anderson’s  : 
narrator  thinks  that  the  milk-bottle  sketch  is  “the  kind  of  j 
thing  Mr.  Sandburg  or  Mr.  Masters  might  have  done  after 
an  evening’s  walk  on  a  hot  night  in,  say.  West  Congress 
Street  in  Chicago”  (309).  But  it  also  has  international  reso¬ 
nances;  “Milk  Bottles”  is  the  kind  of  story  that  might  have 
fitted  very  well  into  Joyce’s  Dubliners.  Anderson’s  purpose, 
like  Joyce’s,  is  to  interpret  a  city,  and  his  means — the  slight, 
internalized  actions,  the  epiphanic  fragments,  the  style  of 
“scrupulous  meanness,”  and  the  pervasive  self-conscious¬ 
ness — are  Joyce’s  as  well.  (The  parallels,  of  course,  are  not 
coincidental;  Dubliners  seems  to  have  been  one  of  several 
models  for  the  linked  stories  of  Winesburg,  Ohio.^) 

As  we  move  from  the  fiction  of  the  1920’s  to  that  of 
the  1930’s  and  40’s,  the  naturalistic  “Chicago  novel”  comes 
to  dominate  the  Illinois  literary  landscape.  And  if  we  want 
to  find  a  very  short  text  to  represent  these  books,  many  of 
them  very  long,  we  might  find  it  in  James  T.  Farrell’s  short 
story  “The  Fastest  Runner  on  Sixty-First  Street”  (1950).’ 
The  runner  is  fourteen-year-old  Morty  Aiken,  and  the  story 
takes  place  in  the  summer  of  1919,  just  after  Morty ’s  gradu¬ 
ation  from  grammar  school.  Most  of  the  brief  story  is  devoted 
to  describing  Morty’s  life:  his  dreams  of  becoming  an  Olym¬ 
pic  athlete,  his  relationship  with  his  respectable,  working- 
class  parents,  his  friendship  with  the  tough  but  simple- 
minded  Tony  Rabuski,  and  his  love  for  Edna  Purcell.  The 
resolution  is  swift  and  shocking.  Morty  has  spent  the  sum¬ 
mer,  the  summer  of  the  1919  Chicago  race  riots,  hanging 
out  on  the  street.  One  evening,  his  friends  suggest  that  they 
go  looking  for  Negroes  to  beat  up.  When  the  gang  spots  a 
Negro  and  gives  chase,  Morty  easily  outdistances  the  others 
and  pursues  the  Negro,  alone,  into  an  alley.  Other  Negroes 
come  out  of  doorways  in  the  alley  and  surround  Morty.  and 
when  the  other  white  boys  catch  up,  they  find  him  dead  in 
the  dirt  of  the  alley  with  his  throat  cut. 

“The  Fastest  Runner  on  Sixty-First  Street"  is,  like  many 
or  even  most  of  the  naturalistic  Chicago  novels  of  the  30’s 
and  40’s,  a  maturation  story,  a  story  of  the  passage  of  a 
young  male  from  the  sheltered  innocence  of  childhood  into 
the  adult  realities  of  the  Chicago  streets.  Or  perhaps  it  should 
be  called  an  anti-maturation  story,  since,  like  many  of  the 
longer  works  in  the  genre,  it  suggests  that  to  grow  up  in 
Chicago  is  to  die.  The  Chicago  of  “The  Fastest  Runner  on 
Sixty-First  Street” — and  of  Albert  Halper’s  novels,  Meyer 
Levin’s  The  Old  Bunch  (1937),  Richard  Wright’s  Native 
Son  (1940)  Willard  Motley’s  Knock  On  Any  Door  (1947), 
and  dozens  of  less  well  known  novels — is  a  world  essentially 
inimical  to  life.  Chicago  is  Division  Street,  in  the  sense 
Studs  Terkel  used  the  name  for  Division  Street:  America. 
“Although  there  is  a  Division  Street  in  Chicago,  the  title  ol 
this  book  is  metaphorical.”'’  In  these  Darwinian  novels,  the 
melting  pot  has  become  the  jungle,  and  races,  ethnic  groups, 
classes,  sexes,  and  generations  struggle  to  maintain  territo¬ 
rial  rights  over  sharply  demarcated  and  jealously  guardec 
turfs.  The  misogyny,  violence,  and  self-destruction,  and  tc 
be  initiated  into  this  code  is  to  set  one's  feet  upon  the  roac 
to  death,  either  literal  death  or  a  kind  of  spiritual  dying. 

All  these  themes  are  implicit  in  “The  Fastest  Runnei 


46 


»n  Sixty-First  Street.”  At  first  glance,  Morty’s  sudden,  un- 
;xpected  death  seems  a  matter  of  blind  chance;  he  appears 
0  be  an  innocent  victim  caught  up  in  social  forces  beyond 
lis  control.  But  on  a  second  reading,  Morty  comes  to  appear 
s  far  from  innocent,  and  the  gentle,  idyllic  summer  of  his 
oming  of  age  becomes  an  initiation  into  death.  Even 
forty’s  name,  with  its  echo  of  the  French  mart,  suggests 
k-here  this  runner  is  running  to.  At  the  heart  of  Morty’s 
ailure  is  a  failure  in  the  family.  Much  Chicago  fiction  is 
lowerfully  oedipal,  preoccupied  with  fathers  who  are  either 
verpowering  tyrants  or,  as  in  the  case  of  Morty’s  father, 
/oefully  inadequate: 

He  was  a  gentle  but  firm  man,  and  was  inar¬ 
ticulate  with  his  son.  He  believed  that  a  boy 
should  have  a  good  time  in  sports,  should  fight 
his  own  battles,  and  that  boyhood — the  best 
time  of  one’s  life — should  be  filled  with  happy 
memories.  (20) 

i  for  his  “faded  and  maternal”  mother,  “she  usually  had 
ittle  to  say;  her  life  was  dedicated  to  caring  for  her  son 
nd  her  husband  and  to  keeping  their  home  clean  and 
rderly”  (20). 

The  moral  emptiness  of  Morty’s  home  leaves  him  a 
ibula  rasa  upon  which  is  gradually  inscribed  the  vicious 
ode  of  the  streets.  He  picks  up  a  casual,  unthinking  racism 
rom  his  friend  Tony,  who,  in  a  simple  but  perceptive  exam- 
le  of  the  psychology  of  hatred,  defends  himself  against 
eing  called  a  “Polack”  by  calling  other  people  “niggers.” 
Vith  growing  maturity,  sexism  deepens  along  with  racism, 
is  a  child,  Morty  “hadn’t  been  shy  when  he  was  with  girls,” 
ut  as  he  falls  in  love  with  Edna  Purcell,  he  paradoxically 
/ithdraws  from  her,  projects  all  his  own  potentially 
feminine”  qualities  onto  his  fantasy  of  her,  and  dreams 
lat  she  “would  one  day  be  his  wife  just  like  his  mother 
/as  his  father’s  wife”  (22).  Morty  is  increasingly  isolated 
1  a  narrow,  white,  masculine  world  and  takes  on  its  values 
0  completely  that  chasing  and  beating  up  Negroes  can  seem 
s  “natural”  as  a  game  of  Knife  or  Run,  Sheep,  Run.  And 
le  irony  of  the  story  is  not  only  that  in  this  world  running, 
mblem  of  Morty’s  true  self  and  of  life  and  vitality,  can 
ecome  the  instrument  of  his  death,  but  also  that  Morty’s 
[idoctrination  into  the  code  of  death  occurs  within  society 
nd  with  its  full  approval; 

His  father  and  mother  were  proud  of  him.  His 
teacher  and  Mrs.  Bixby,  the  principal  of  the 
school,  were  proud  of  him.  Merchants  on  Sixty- 
First  Street  were  proud  of  him.  There  was  not 
a  lad  in  the  neighborhood  who  was  greeted  on 
the  street  by  strangers  as  often  as  Morty.  (15) 

Chicago  naturalism  is  often  thought  of  as  the  relentless, 
rtless,  literal-minded  piling  up  of  sordid  detail,  the  anti- 
liesis  of  the  cool,  oblique,  economical  modernism  Ander- 
on  called  for  in  “Milk  Bottles.”  There  is  some  justice  in 
his  view,  but  the  contrast  is  not  absolute.  The  spirit  of 


modernism  touched  the  Chicago  naturalists,  too,  and  the 
classic  works  of  that  tradition  are  far  more  artful  than 
they  are  generally  given  credit  for,  ironic  interrogations 
of  their  brutal,  masculinist  codes  rather  than  simple  ex¬ 
pressions  of  them. 

But  the  argument  for  this  more  complex  view  of 
Chicago  naturalism  cannot  rest  upon  a  brief,  possibly  uprep- 
resentative  story  such  as  “The  Fastest  Runner  on  Sixty-First 
Street.”  Let  us  take  Farrell’s  Studs  Lonigan  trilogy,  for 
example,  in  many  ways  the  paradigmatic  work  of  the 
Chicago  tradition  and  sometimes  cited  as  the  textbook  exam¬ 
ple  of  naturalism’s  excesses.’  Already  by  the  fifties.  Time 
magazine  was  calling  Farrell  “the  worst  writer  in  America,” 
and  Bette  Howland  has  recently  written  (in  an  otherwise 
sympathetic  review  of  Farrell)  that  “sometimes  he  sounds 
like  a  man  laying  bricks.”* 

The  reader  willing  to  take  a  fresh  look  at  Studs  Lonigan, 
however,  is  likely  to  be  struck  not  by  the  book’s  crudity 
but  by  its  enormous  artfulness.  The  whole  of  this  massive, 
1078-page  novel  is  held  in  potential  in  its  opening  paragraph, 
one  of  the  greatest  in  American  fiction. 

Studs  Lonigan,  on  the  verge  of  fifteen, 
wearing  his  first  suit  of  long  trousers,  stood  in 
the  bathroom  with  a  Sweet  Caporal  pasted  in 
his  mug.  His  hands  were  jammed  in  his  trouser 
pockets,  and  he  sneered.  He  puffed,  drew  the 
fag  out  of  his  mouth,  inhaled  and  said  to  himself: 

Well,  Fm  kissin’  the  old  dump  goodbye 
tonight.  (1.3) 

The  opening  tableau  of  Studs  Lonigan  staring  at  himself 
in  a  mirror  and  constructing  a  tough-guy  persona  for  himself 
contains  the  essence  of  the  central  action  of  the  novel:  Studs’s 
struggle  to  define  himself  in  some  way  compatible  with 
survival  in  a  hostile  world.  Studs ’s  tragedy,  in  a  way,  is 
that  he  is  an  idealist,  a  Chicago  Lord  Jim  who  follows  a 
romantic  vision  of  himself  to  his  own  destruction,  and  the 
novel  is  full  of  variations  on  this  opening  mirror  scene,  in 
which  Studs  studies  himself  either  in  a  literal  mirror  or  in 
an  internalized  self-image,  costumes  himself  appropriately, 
and  self-consciously  rehearses  for  the  role  of  his  own  self. 

Much  of  the  novel  consists  of  a  sort  of  “stream  of 
self-consciousness”;  oddly,  in  this  novel  which  is  usually 
thought  of  as  consisting  mostly  of  brawling,  naturalistic 
external  action,  the  most  characteristic  scenes  consist  of 
extended,  actionless  meditations  or  reveries.  The  opening 
scene  continues  for  nine  pages,  devoted  entirely  to  Studs 
gazing  at  his  image  in  the  mirror  and  engaging  in  a  stream 
of  free  association.  And  this  scene  is  followed  immediately 
by  an  equally  static  one  in  which  Studs’s  father  sits  on  the 
back  porch,  gazing  out  with  “reverie-lost  eyes”  and  indulg¬ 
ing  in  a  similar  string  of  memories,  vague  hopes,  associa¬ 
tions,  and  inarticulate  desires.  Such  scenes  shape  the  book 
much  more  than  do  the  contrasting  scenes  of  external  action, 
street  dialogues,  and  the  like,  which  are,  in  effect,  interpo¬ 
lated  in  the  ongoing  inner  monologue. 

The  rhetoric  of  this  monologue  is  also  established  in 


the  opening  paragraph.  Farrell  employs  a  free  indirect  style 
in  which  the  point  of  view  is  formally  third-person  but  with 
the  language  taking  on  the  coloration  of  the  characters. 
Thus  he  can  begin  with  neutral,  third-person  narration; 
“Studs  Lonigan.  .  .  stood  in  the  bathroom,"  but  by  the  end 
of  the  sentence — “with  a  Sweet  Caporal  pasted  in  his  mug 
the  language  and  the  sensibility  have  become  Studs’s.  The 
language  has  a  modernist  “scrupulous  meanness,”  but  it  is 
flexible  enough  to  be  continually  transformed,  chameleon¬ 
like,  into  that  of  the  characters.  This  style  gives  the  novel 
a  pervasive  irony,  with  a  constantly  shitting  and  yet  omnipre¬ 
sent  gap  between  the  narrative  voice  and  those  of  the  charac¬ 
ters.  For  example,  in  the  description  of  Studs  in  the  second 
paragraph,  we  are  told  that  “his  long  nose  was  too  large  for 
his  other  features;  almost  a  sheeny’s  nose.”  After  the  bare 
neutrality  of  the  beginning  of  the  sentence,  the  brutal,  racist 
“sheeny”  slaps  us  in  the  face  and  forces  us  back  partially 
into  the  mind  of  Studs.  This  double  perspective  is  echoed 
throughout  the  rest  of  the  novel,  on  every  level  of  structure, 
from  the  larger  architectonic  design  down  to  the  single  word . 

The  double  point  of  view  is  paralleled  by  a  number  of 
other  doublings  and  oppositions  in  the  first  paragraph,  appar¬ 
ent  at  least  in  looking  back  on  that  paragraph  from  the 
perspective  of  the  entire  novel.  The  most  obvious  is  Studs’s 
name.  Studs  is  “Studs”  to  himself  and  his  friends,  a  name 
to  which  his  mother,  we  shortly  learn,  strongly  objects: 
“Flow  many  times  have  I  forbade  you  to  call  him  that  awful 
name?”  (1.26).  To  her,  he  is  “William,”  and  the  two  names 
run  through  the  book  as  an  emblem  of  Studs’s  divided  self, 
like  the  other  oppositions  of  the  first  paragraph:  the  real 
Studs  and  his  mirror  image  and  the  actual  child  and  the 
fantasized  man. 

More  important,  though,  if  less  obvious,  is  another 
opposition  in  the  first  paragraph,  because  it  has  implications 
for  our  understanding  of  the  kind  of  novel  Studs  Lonigan 
is.  This  is  an  implicit  opposition  between  an  enclosed  unity 
and  an  open  variety.  From  one  point  of  view,  the  opening 
paragraph  contains  the  seed  of  the  ending  of  the  book.  Studs, 
when  we  first  see  him,  is  smoking  a  cigarette;  fifteen  years 
and  a  thousand  pages  later,  he  is  to  die  of  a  lung  ailment 
brought  on  by  dissipation  that  includes  chain-smoking.  In 
his  first  spoken  line,  he  is  kissing  “the  old  dump”  of  St. 
Patrick’s  grammar  school  goodbye;  at  the  end  of  the  book, 
he  is  going  to  kiss  the  old  dump  of  the  world  goodbye. 

For  all  its  scope.  Studs  Lonigan,  from  one  point  of 
view  at  least,  has  an  almost  obsessive  unity.  To  see  in 
Studs’s  initial  Sweet  Caporal  the  foreshadowing  of  his  own 
death  might  seem  merely  fanciful  if  the  novel  were  not  so 
pervaded  by  images  of  death.  The  entire  book  might  be  a 
morality  play  that  teaches  a  single  lesson:  “The  wages  of 
sin  is  death”  (if  “sin”  is  redefined  as  the  values  of  Studs’s 
world).  Studs,  from  very  early  in  the  book,  recurrently 
broods  about  death  and  pictures  himself  dead.  The  destruc¬ 
tiveness  of  his  street  machismo  is  underscored  by  an  ever¬ 
growing  roll-call  of  premature  deaths  among  his  friends. 
Arnold  Sheehan,  Paulie  Haggerty,  Shrimp  Haggerty,  Tom¬ 
my  Doyle,  Hink  Weber,  Slug  Mason — the  death-list  be¬ 
comes  an  ominous  motif  as  the  novel  unfolds,  a  rolling  ot 


muffled  drums  as  death  lands  a  coloring  even  to  incidental 
details  in  the  book;  evening  is  “the  fitful  death  of  the  sun” 
(1.147),  and  Studs’s  working  partner  as  a  house  painter  is 
named,  like  the  fastest  runner,  “Mort”  (11.63).  The  rush  to 
death  also  provides  the  shape  of  the  historical  myth  against 
which  Studs’s  story  is  set.  The  novel  begins  in  1916,  when 
Studs  is  fourteen,  and  ends  with  his  death  in  1931,  at  the 
age  of  twenty-nine.  He  dies  of  weaknesses  contracted  on 
New  Year’s,  1929,  when  he  passed  out  on  the  street  after 
a  drunken,  violent  debauch,  spent  the  night  in  the  snow, 
and  contracted  double  pneumonia  which  left  him  with  a 
damaged  heart  and  lungs.  For  the  Marxist  Farrell,  Studs 
Lonigan  is  a  study  in  dying  culture  as  well  as  of  a  dying 
man,  and  for  both  the  crash  comes  in  1929. 

1  have  emphasized  the  artistry  and  the  metaphoric  unity 
of  Studs  Lonigan  because  those  are  its  qualities  most  often 
overlooked.  But  it  is  as  partial  and  misleading  to  see  only 
its  unifying  elements  as  it  is  to  see  only  its  sprawling  inclu¬ 
siveness.  If  Stud’s  cigarette  in  the  opening  paragraph  anti¬ 
cipates  the  ending  of  the  book,  there  is  much  along  the  way 
that  it  does  not  anticipate,  and  if  Studs’s  collapse  in  the 
snow  and  the  fall  of  the  stock  market  in  1929  are  metaphor¬ 
ically  related  and  thereby  draw  the  book  together  toward 
unity,  there  are  many  other  details  in  the  book  that  do  not 
seem  to  be  metaphors  for  anything,  that  seem  relevant 
only  by  contiguity  or  association,  and  that  lead  the  book 
in  the  direction  of  complexity  and  variety.  The  book’s 
many  “catalogues,”  in  which  Farrell  and  his  character 
seem  to  delight  in  piling  up  details  of  Chicago  life,  func¬ 
tion  in  this  way  and  give  the  book  much  of  its  vitality, 
the  sense  that  the  allegory  of  death  is  not  the  complete 
picture  of  Chicago  life. 

In  the  fourth  chapter  of  Young  Lonigan,  for  example, 
we  are  introduced  to  old  man  “O’ Brian,  father  of  Studs  s 
friend  Johnny  O’Brian.  O’Brian  takes  Johnny  and  Studs  out 
on  his  business  rounds  and  spends  the  afternoon  talking  and 
joking  with  the  boys.  He  reminisces  about  Chicago  sports: 
horseracing,  boxing,  and  baseball: 

And  the  baseball  games  in  the  old  days  of  Spike 
Shannon,  Mike  Donlin,  Fred  Tenney,  Jimmy 
Collins,  Cy  Young,  Pat  Dougherty,  Fielder 
Jones  of  the  Hitless  Wonders,  and  even  earlier 
when  he  was  a  kid,  and  they  had  the  Baltimore 
Orioles,  and  he  used  to  see  Kid  Gleason  pitch, 
and  there  was  Hit-Em-Where-They-Ain  t  Willie 
Keeler,  Eh  Yah  Hughie  Jennings.  Muggsy 
McGraw,  old  Robby,  Pop  Anson,  Brothers  and 
the  Delehantys.  Hell,  even  Ty  Cobb  wasn  t  as 
good  as  Willie  Keeler.  (1.98) 

Studs  is  completely  won  over  by  old  man  O  Brian  and  his 
ability  to  talk  to  the  boys  as  if  they  were  equals,  and  he 
wishes  sadly  that  his  father  were  like  Johnny’s.  The  reader 
is  less  charmed;  old  man  O' Brian  is  a  vicious  bigot  : 


You  got  to  put  pepper  on  the  tails  of  these  eight- 
balls.  They’re  lazy  as  you  make  ’em.  A  jew  and 


48 


a  nigger.  Never  trust  ’em  farther  than  you  can 
see  ’em.  (1. 100) 

at  even  Farrell’s  sardonic  dissection  of  old  man  O’Brian 
)es  not  erase,  nor  is  it  intended  to,  the  energy  and  charm 
his  catalogues  of  athletic  curiosities.  Such  ambivalences 
id  oppositions  appear  in  various  forms  throughout  the 
>ok. 

Descriptions  of  Chicago  naturalistic  novels  sometimes 
akc  them  sound  as  if  they  were  all  written  by  Studs  Lonigan 
mself.  But  even  these  brutal  male  novels  contain  within 
emselves  their  own  counter  side,  their  own  repudiation  of 
(th  the  moral  and  artistic  codes  they  develop  and  examine. 

Furthermore,  the  stereotyped  view  of  the  characteristic 
licago  novel  as  a  hardboiled  tale  of  male  initiation  is  also 
mplicated  by  the  presence,  in  the  years  between  1930  and 
'60,  of  an  alternative  tradition  of  Chicago  fiction.  The  fine 
ntemporary  Chicago  writer  Maxine  Chemoff  has  recently 
scribed  her  reaction  as  a  woman  to  the  naturalistic  tradition 
d  suggested  the  possibility  of  an  alternative  one: 

I  don’t  think  that  either  Algren  or  Farrell  would 
be  choices  of  role  models  for  a  woman  writer 
growing  up  in  Chicago.  Many  of  the  writers  you 
think  of  as  the  Chicago  writers  are  the  brawling 
barroom  kind  of  writers  that  might  portray  a 
man’s  point  of  view.  .  .  .  The  male  tradition 
seems  to  me,  in  my  own  writing,  as  distant  as 
what  Carl  Sandburg  did  in  poetry,  say,  I  would 
never  attempt  to  do  it  now  or  want  to  follow  it.’ 

dney  H.  Bremer  has  recently  explored  an  alternative  tra- 
tion  of  female  Chicago  writing  during  the  years  of  the 
licago  Renaissance  and  has  suggested  that  the  novels  of 
Villa  Cather’s  lost  Chicago  sisters”  develop  a  different 
ban  myth  from  that  of  male  writers.  Rather  than  presenting 
enated  individuals  adrift  in  the  urban  jungle,  these  novels 
aracteristically  “present  the  city  as  part  of  a  life  experience 
It  is  continuous,  embedded  in  natural  forces  and  in  com- 
jnal  ties  and  conflicts.”'® 

The  alternative  Chicago  tradition  need  not  be  confined 
women’s  writing,  however.  Bremer’s  observations  would 
ply  not  only  to  such  post-Renaissance  women’s  novels 
Gwendolyn  Brook’s  Maud  Martha  (1953),  but  also  to 
ch  novels  by  black  men  as  Waters  Turpin’s  groundbreak- 
g  O  Canaan!  (1939),  to  the  warm,  genial  novels  of  the 
licago  Greek  community  by  Harry  Mark  Petrakis,  and 
pecially  to  the  Chicago  novels  of  Saul  Bellow.  The  Adven- 
res  of  Augie  March  (1953),  for  example,  might  well  be 
ad  as  an  ironic  inversion  of  the  naturalistic  novel,  a  sort 
reply  to  Studs  Lonigan.  Augie’s  Chicago  is  as  dangerous 
Studs’s,  but  Augie  confronts  its  dangers  not  with  Studs’s 
lid,  macho  self-destructiveness  but  with  a  joyful  resi- 
!ncy.  Jewish  in  a  predominantly  Polish  neighborhood  on 
e  West  Side,  he  is  chased  and  stoned  as  a  “Christ-killer,” 
It  he  is  “too  larky  and  boisterous  to  take  it  to  heart.”  A 
tie  more  such  larkiness  might  have  saved  Studs ’s  life, 
gnificantly,  the  stark,  oedipal,  father-son  competitions  of 


Studs  Lonigan  are  replaced  in  Augie  March  by  mother-son 
relationships,  and  Chicago,  not  only  in  this  novel  but  in 
Bellow’s  later  works  as  well,  takes  on  a  distinctly  maternal 
coloring:  warm,  chaotic,  and  endlessly  ambiguous,  like  re¬ 
ality  itself. 

Such  alternative  visions  of  experience  must  generate 
fictional  forms  different  from  that  of  the  naturalistic  novel. 
What  such  forms  might  be  may  be  suggested  not  only  by 
the  open,  joyful,  picaresque  structure  of  Augie  March  but 
by  the  very  different  form  of  Gwendolyn  Brook’s  elegant 
Maud  Martha. 

Maud  Martha  presents  the  sharpest  contrast  imaginable 
to  such  a  Chicago  novel  as  Studs  Lonigan."  Rather  than  the 
inclusive  gigantism  of  Farrell’s  trilogy.  Brooks  practices  a 
sort  of  literary  pointillism,  building  up  a  slight,  internalized 
narrative  from  brief,  lyric  fragments.  The  180-page  novel 
consists  of  thirty-four  short  sections,  less  like  chapters  in 
the  conventional  sense  than  like  prose  poems.  Some  are  bits 
of  narrative — a  hospital  visit  to  a  dying  grandmother,  a  trip 
with  a  child  to  a  department-store  Santa  Claus — while  others 
are  static  description  (“description  of  Maud  Martha  and  New 
York”). 

Such  a  structure  means  that  Maud  Martha  does  not 
have  a  “plot,”  in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  word.  It  presents, 
rather,  a  succession  of  “moments  of  being, and  the  reader 
must,  in  effect,  construct  for  himself  or  herself  the  continu¬ 
ous  narrative  these  moments  imply. 

Such  an  implied  narrative  has  some  points  of  similarity 
to  Studs  Lonigan  as  a  maturation  story  covering  about  fifteen 
years  in  a  young  person’s  life.  Maud  Martha  begins  when 
the  protagonist  is  seven  years  old  and  ends  when  she  is  in 
her  early  twenties,  married,  and  the  mother  of  one  child 
and  expecting  another.  The  incidents  of  external  action  are 
remarkably  slight:  a  grandmother  dies,  Maud  Martha’s  father 
gets  a  loan  to  buy  a  house,  she  has  two  brief  romantic 
involvements  and  then  marries  her  third  beau,  Paul  Phillips. 
The  couple  moves  into  a  disappointing  kitchenette  apart¬ 
ment,  and  the  marriage  is  vaguely  unhappy.  A  daughter  is 
bom.  There  are  a  series  of  fragmentary,  indeterminate  ex¬ 
periences:  an  unsatisfying  encounter  with  an  old  boyfriend, 
an  overheard  racist  remark  in  a  hairdressing  establishment, 
a  job  as  a  cleaning  woman  which  she  quits  after  one  day, 
and  an  encounter  with  a  racist  department-store  Santa  Claus. 
In  the  last  brief  section,  the  Second  World  War  ends  (it  has 
not  been  mentioned  previously),  and  Maud  Martha  discovers 
that  she  is  pregnant  again. 

It  might  be  said  of  Maud  Martha  what  Samuel  Johnson 
said  of  Pamela,  that  if  you  read  it  for  the  story,  you  would 
hang  yourself.  Brooks  seems  to  conceive  of  novelistic  action 
rather  as  Virginia  Woolf  conceived  of  it,  “not  a  series  of 
gig  lamps  symmetrically  arranged;  but  a  luminous  halo,  a 
semi-transparent  envelope  surrounding  us  from  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  consciousness  to  the  end.”'^  The  important  action 
of  Maud  Martha  is  not  the  slight  external  plot  but  the  inner 
action  of  Maud  Martha’s  developing  consciousness,  as  it  is 
suggested  in  the  “luminous  halo”  around  each  of  the  novel’s 
epiphanic  fragments.  ■ 


I 


I  1 


■tj 


-< 


49 


As  with  Studs  Lonigan,  the  first  paragraph  is  revealing; 

What  she  liked  was  candy  buttons,  and  books, 
and  painted  music  (deep  blue,  or  delicate  silver) 
and  the  west  sky,  so  altering,  viewed  from  the 
steps  of  the  back  porch;  and  dandelions.  (1) 

As  Studs’s  “Sweet  Caporal”  does  in  Studs  Lonigan, 
the  image  of  dandelions  arches  out  and  touches  down  at  the 
end  of  the  book,  drawing  the  novel  into  a  unity.  In  the  last 
section,  Maud  Martha  is  thinking  of  the  end  of  the  war  and 
of  the  persistence  of  life: 

But  the  sun  was  shining,  and  some  of  the  people 
in  the  world  had  been  left  alive,  and  it  was 
doubtful  whether  the  ridiculousness  of  man 
would  ever  completely  succeed  in  destroying 
the  world — or,  in  fact,  the  basic  equanimity  of 
the  least  and  commonest  flower:  for  would  its 
kind  not  come  up  again  in  the  spring?  come  up, 
if  necessary! — the  smashed  corpses  lying  in 
strict  composure,  in  that  hush  infallible  and  sin¬ 
cere.  (179) 

Dandelions,  which  have  already  been  told  are  the  “least 
and  commonest”  flowers,  thus  furnish  a  central,  framing 
metaphor  for  the  book.  They  also  furnish  one  term  in  an 
opposition  implied  in  that  opening  statement  of  what  Maud 
Martha  liked,  an  opposition  between  the  real  and  the 
idealized.  The  meaning  of  dandelions  as  a  symbol  of  reality 
and  of  Maud  Martha  herself  is  developed  in  the  second 
paragraph,  where  they  are  contrasted  with  lotuses  and  other 
exotic  flowers.  She  would  have  liked  such  flowers,  we  are 
told,  but  dandelions  “were  what  she  chiefly  saw,”  and  “she 
liked  their  demure  prettiness  second  to  their  everydayness; 
for  in  that  latter  quality  she  thought  she  saw  a  picture  of 
herself,  and  it  was  comforting  to  find  that  what  was  common 
could  also  be  a  flower”  (2). 

Unsurprisingly,  this  initial  opposition  between  real  dan¬ 
delions  and  idealized  lotuses  parallels  the  initial  opposition 
in  Studs  Lonigan  between  the  real  boy  and  the  idealized 
self-image  in  the  mirror;  what,  after  all,  is  there  to  write 
about  except  reality?  But  the  opposition  between  reality 
and  illusion  is  itself  diametrically  opposite  in  the  two 
books.  Studs  never  learns  what  is  real  and  he  follows  his 
destructive  illusion  straight  to  death;  Maud  Martha  does 
learn,  and  her  story  moves  toward  life:  wild  flowers  grow¬ 
ing  through  the  bones  of  the  dead  and  the  announcement 
of  an  imminent  birth. 

It  appears,  in  the  first  paragraph  of  the  book,  that 
Maud  Martha’s  preference  for  ordinary  reality  over  fan¬ 
tasy  is  already  a  settled  one.  But  this  is  not  the  case;  at 
each  of  the  book’s  quiet  turning  points,  Maud  Martha 
must  learn  anew  to  confront  reality  without  the  comfort 
of  fantasy  or  the  cynicism  of  despair.  The  opposition 
appears  in  one  of  its  simplest  forms,  for  example,  in  her 
sibling  rivalry  with  her  sister  Helen.  If  Maud  Martha  is 
a  dandelion  of  “only  ordinary  allurements,”  Helen  is  a 
lotus,  “  a  thing  of  heart-catching  beauty”: 


Such  as  her  sister  Helen!  who  was  only  two 
years  past  her  own  age  of  seven,  and  was  almost 
her  own  height  and  weight  and  thickness.  But 
oh,  the  long  lashes,  the  grace,  the  little  ways 
with  the  hands  and  feet.  (2-3) 

The  theme  of  Helen  forms  a  thread  through  the  book, 
always  as  material  for  self-deprecation  for  Maud  Martha 
until  section  32,  very  near  the  end,  when  her  mother  tells 
her  that  Helen  doesn’t  like  to  visit  Maud  Martha  because 
“it  sort  of  depresses  her.  She  wants  you  to  have  more  things’ 

(167) .  Helen,  however,  has  agreed  to  marry  the  family  doc¬ 
tor,  twice  her  age,  because  he  “will  give  her  a  decent  home’ 

(168) .  (Maud  Martha  asks,  “What  does  Papa  say?”  and  hei 
mother  replies,  “He’s  thinking  of  changing  doctors.”)  Wher 
Maud  Martha  faces  the  reality  of  her  sister’s  life,  as  opposec 
to  her  idealized  sisterly  picture,  the  moment  leads  to  aquie 
inner  reconciliation  with  both  her  sister  and  her  mother; 

“I’m  thinking  of  Helen.” 

“What  about  Helen,  dear?” 

“It’s  funny  how  some  people  are  just 
charming,  just  pretty,  and  others,  bom  of  the 
same  parents,  are  just  not.” 

“You’ve  always  been  wonderful,  dear.” 

(169) 

Mother  and  daughter  look  at  each  other  in  silence  for  . 
moment  and  then  begin  talking  again  with  a  new  intimac 
and  trust. 

The  inner  action  of  the  novel  is  a  sequence  of  scene 
of  this  kind,  in  which  Maud  Martha  gives  up  an  idealize' 
fantasy  and  faces  an  aspect  of  reality.  Her  first  apartmer 
is  to  be  a  dream  apartment  that  the  Chicago  black  newspape 
the  Defender,  will  come  and  photograph.  Confronted  wit 
lack  of  money  and  the  landlord’s  opposition,  though,  sh 
must  settle  for  a  dreary  kitchenette  apartment  furnished  th 
landlord’s  way.  When  a  white  saleswoman,  talking  to  Mau 
Martha  and  her  beautician  friend  Sonia,  says  that  she  hi 
to  “work  like  a  nigger,”  Maud  Martha  must  give  up  ht 
fantasy  of  a  courageous  confrontation  in  the  face  of  Sonia 
rationalizations  of  her  failure  to  protest.  And  most  imfKtrtai 
of  all,  she  must  move  through  the  self-centered  idealizatior 
of  her  marriage  ("1  am  what  he  would  call — sweet,  and 
am  good,  and  he  will  marry  me”  [54])  to  an  imaginati^ 
confrontation  with  the  realities  of  her  husband  s  life,  t 
acceptance  of  his  limitations,  and  a  love  based  on  the  real. 

As  Studs  Lonigan  is  a  “brawling  barroom”  male  nov 
which  contains  its  own  criticism  of  the  code  it  develops. 
Maud  Martha  is  a  subtle,  interiorized,  female  novel  whi( 
celebrates  the  imagination  while  at  the  same  time  presentii 
the  counterclaims  of  reality.  Until  recently,  Maud  Marti 
would  not  have  been  likely  to  be  called  a  "Chicago  novel 
it  is  so  far  outside  the  male  tradition  of  Farrell  and  Algre 
But  surely  a  stronger  conception  of  the  Chicago  traditi'i 
would  include  both  Studs  Lonigan  and  Maud  Martha  a- 
do  justice  to  the  rich  oppositions  both  between  novels  al 
within  the  individual  novels.  The  “tradition”  and  the  “an 


50 


adition”  should  be  melded  critically  into  a  single,  richer 
mception  of  Chicago  writing. 

Such  complexities  only  increase  as  we  move  forward 
to  Illinois  fiction  since  1960.  What  generalizations  can  be 
ade  that  will  hold  for  such  varied  works  as  Cyrus  Colter’s 
:h,  imaginative  stories  of  Chicago  black  experience,  Mark 
3Stello’s  artful  and  self-conscious  Murphy  Stories  (1973), 
uart  Dybek’s  magical  tales  of  the  Polish  community  in 
licago,  Edith  Freund’s  high-spirited  Chicago  Girls  (1985), 
jtte  Howland’s  funny,  heart-breaking  Blue  in  Chicago 

978) ,  Jerry  Klein’s  Fathersday  (1981),  Roslyn  Rosen 
md’s  The  Sharing  (1978),  David  Martin’s  Tethered 

979) ,  and  the  later  work  of  Harry  Mark  Petrakis,  as  in 
\ck  the  Greek  (1979),  and  of  Saul  Bellow,  as  in  Him  with 
[5  Foot  in  His  Mouth  and  Other  Stories  (1984)? 

One  common  impression  these  works  give  is  of  a  rather 
;cisive  break  with  the  past.  There  are  no  naturalistic  novels 
male  initiation  on  this  list,  and  if  the  old  subjects  of  the 
airie  Eden,  the  stagnation  of  small-town  life,  and  the  jungle 
the  city  come  up,  they  are  treated  with  an  ironic  self-con- 
iousness,  as  if  they  were  stale  cliches  to  be  examined 
ther  than  expressed. 

Another  general  impression  is  of  great  formal  and  stylis- 
:  variety,  as  if,  as  old  themes  recede  into  the  past,  so  do 
e  forms  in  which  they  were  expressed.  There  are  “genre” 
orks  on  the  list;  forms  tend  to  be  loose  and  original,  almost 
1  hoc. 

The  ironic  self-consciousness  and  the  freedom  of  form, 

'  course,  were  also  characteristics  of  “Milk  Bottles,”  and 
ese  recent  works  demonstrate  the  vitality  and  endurance 
modernist  ideas  of  fiction. 

All  of  these  qualities  are  suggested  by  one  of  the  finest 
)vels  ever  written  about  Illinois  life,  William  Maxwell’s 
)  Long,  See  You  Tomorrow  (1980).'“  In  this  short  novel, 

1  elderly  New  Yorker  remembers  a  1922  murder  case  on 
prairie  farm  near  his  childhood  home  of  Lincoln,  Illinois, 
tenant  farmer  named  Clarence  Smith  shot  and  killed  his 
ife’s  lover,  a  neighbor  farmer  named  Lloyd  Wilson,  and 
en  killed  himself.  The  narrator  knew  Smith’s  son  Cletus, 
id  what  starts  the  process  of  memory  is  the  remembrance 
'  an  embarrassing  incident  in  the  hallway  of  a  Chicago 
hool  a  few  years  later,  when  he  unexpectedly  met  Cletus 
id  didn’t  speak  to  him.  This  memoir,  the  narrator  writes, 
“a  roundabout,  futile  way  of  making  amends”  (5). 

Once  started  on  his  inquiry  into  the  past,  the  narrator 
ders  photostats  of  newspaper  reports  of  the  case  from  the 
linois  State  Historical  Society  which  correct  his  vague 
emory  that  Smith  found  his  wife  in  bed  with  Wilson  and 
lied  them  both  and  which  give  rather  stiff  accounts  of  the 
eternal  facts  of  the  case. 

But  as  the  narrator  learns  more  about  the  murder,  the 
ory  becomes  more  and  more  entangled  with  his  memories 
f  his  own  life  at  the  time:  his  mother’s  death  in  the  influenza 
3idemic  of  1918,  his  father’s  grief  and  his  own  desperate 
ihappiness,  his  father’s  evenutal  remarriage,  and  the  fam- 
y’s  move  to  Chicago.  With  the  return  of  these  childhood 
lemories,  the  narrator  becomes  more  and  more  conscious 


of  the  unreliability  of  memory  and  its  close  association  with 
fiction-making: 

What  we,  or  at  any  rate  what  I,  refer  to  confi¬ 
dently  as  memory — meaning  a  moment,  a  scene, 
a  fact  that  has  been  subjected  to  a  fixative  and 
thereby  rescued  from  oblivion — is  really  a  form 
of  storytelling  that  goes  on  continually  in  the 
mind  and  often  changes  with  the  telling.  Too 
many  conflicting  emotional  interests  are  in¬ 
volved  for  life  ever  to  be  wholly  acceptable, 
and  possibly  it  is  the  work  of  the  storyteller  to 
rearrange  things  so  that  they  conform  to  this 
end.  In  any  case,  in  talking  about  the  past  we 
lie  with  every  breath  we  draw.  (28-29) 

The  novel  has  opened  in  a  cool,  factual  way  that  leads 
us  to  believe  that  we  are  reading  autobiography  rather  than 
fiction,  a  genuine  “memoir.”  But  from  this  point  on,  overt 
fictionality  gradually  takes  over  the  narrative,  beginning 
with  a  quiet  admission  that  “Cletus  Smith  isn’t  his  real 
name”  (29).  When  the  narrator  has  completed  gathering  the 
external  facts  of  the  case,  he  turns  to  a  frankly  imaginative 
treatment  of  it:  “If  any  part  of  the  following  mixture  of  truth 
and  fiction  strikes  the  reader  as  unconvincing,  he  has  my 
permission  to  disregard  it.  I  would  be  content  to  stick  to 
the  facts  if  there  were  any”  (61). 

The  story  that  Maxwell  spins  from  the  bare  outline  of 
“facts”  (which  are,  we  are  reminded,  themselves  as  Active 
as  the  imaginary  account)  is  a  stark  prairie  tragedy  which 
moves  from  the  deep  friendship  between  Wilson  and  Smith 
through  Wilson’s  growing  obsession  with  Fern  Smith;  his 
sudden,  reluctant  confession  and  her  unexpected  reciproca¬ 
tion  of  it;  to  the  catastrophic  collapse  of  the  two  marriages. 
Smith’s  brooding  violence,  and  his  ultimate  retribution. 
There  is  no  suggestion  of  any  romanticizing  of  Lloyd  Wil¬ 
son’s  and  Fern  Smith’s  love  or  any  hope  of  resolution.  It 
is  a  hopeless,  destructive  obsession  that  falls  like  a  ham- 
merblow  from  the  gods,  smashing  all  the  lives  it  touches. 

As  a  “roundabout,  futile  way  of  making  amends,”  the 
narrator’s  fiction-making  about  the  Wilsons  and  the  Smiths 
is  an  attempt  to  know  another  person,  to  break  through  the 
barrier  that  led  him  to  ignore  Cletus  in  the  high  school 
hallway,  in  a  sudden,  spontaneous,  childish  act.  He  wants 
to  imagine  fully  and  sympathetically  what  Cletus’s  experi¬ 
ence  was. 

But  he  also  knows  that  such  empathetic  escape  from 
the  self  is  impossible  and  that  his  fiction  about  the  Wilsons 
and  the  Smiths  points  not  only  toward  Cletus  but  also  toward 
himself;  it  is  a  displaced  version  of  his  own  story.  Cletus 
Smith  is  himself;  the  sullen,  brutal  Clarence  Smith  who 
beats  horses  and  dogs  and  murders  his  friend  is  a  nightmare 
version  of  his  own  father;  and  Fern  Smith,  who  suddenly 
and  mysteriously  removes  herself  from  her  family,  is  his 
own  mother,  who  removed  herself  through  death.  Even  the 
imaginary  slovenly  widow  Lloyd  Wilson  hires  as  a  house¬ 
keeper  is  a  fictional  reflection  of  the  housekeepers  his  father 

UMIVERStTY  OF  IttlflOfS 
IT  URBANAs  CHAMPAIGN 


hired  after  the  mother’s  death.  His  concern  for  Cletus  and 
whether  “instead  of  being  stuck  there  he  could  go  on  and 
by  the  grace  of  God  lead  his  own  life,  undestroyed  by  what 
was  not  his  own  doing”  ( 149)  is  also  a  concern  for  himself, 
who,  decades  after  his  mother’s  death,  suddenly  said,  “I 
can’t  bear  it,“  in  an  analyst’s  office  in  New  York,  and  burst 
into  “a  Hood  of  tears  such  as  I  hadn’t  ever  known  before, 
not  even  in  my  childhood”  (145). 

Down  to  the  smallest  detail,  the  two  stories  of  So  Long, 
See  You  Tomorrow,  the  narrator’s  and  Cletus  Smith’s,  mirror 
each  other.  But  which  is  reality,  which  the  reflection?  In  a 
world  in  which  memory  and  consciousness  itself  are  “a  form 
of  storytelling  that  goes  on  continually  in  the  mind”  and  in 
which  “we  lie  with  every  breath  we  draw,”  we  can  never 
know.  We  can  never  really  know  the  Cletus  Smiths,  but  we 
can  never  know  ourselves  either. 

So  Long,  See  You  Tomorrow  is  a  novel  of  fragments, 
of  bits  and  pieces  brought  together  out  of  the  past  and  fitted 
together  into  a  hesitant,  tentative  structure  of  meaning,  frag¬ 
ments  that  Maxwell  at  one  point  compares  to  playing  cards 
being  turned  face-up  one  at  a  time  (61 ).  One  such  fragment 
is  the  memory  of  Alberto  Giacometti’s  sculpture  “Palace  at 
4  a.m.,”  which  the  narrator  remembers  seeing  in  the  Museum 
of  Modem  Art. 

It  is  a  skeletal  framework  of  a  room.  Flying 
around  in  the  room  at  the  top  of  the  palace  there 
is  a  queer-looking  creature  with  the  head  of  a 
monkey  wrench.  A  bird?  a  cross  between  a  male 
ballet  dancer  and  a  pterodactyl?  Below  it,  in  a 
kind  of  freestanding  closet,  the  backbone  of 
some  animal.  To  the  left,  backed  by  three  off- 
white  parallelograms,  what  could  be  an  impos¬ 
ing  female  figure  or  one  of  the  more  important 
pieces  of  chess  set.  And,  in  about  the  position 
a  basketball  ring  would  occupy,  a  vertical,  hol- 
lowed-out  spatulate  shape  with  a  ball  in  front 
of  it.  (27) 

Maxwell  also  quotes  at  length  Giacometti’s  account  of 
the  composition  of  this  piece,  which  took  place  just  after 
the  end  of  a  love  affair.  The  skeletal  bird  and  the  spinal 
column  had  personal  associations  with  the  woman,  and  the 
female  figure,  as  Giacometti  recognized,  was  a  childhood 
memory  of  his  mother.  “The  mystery  of  her  long  black  dress 
touching  the  floor  troubled  me;  it  seemed  to  me  like  a  part 
of  her  body,  and  aroused  in  me  a  feeling  of  fear  and  confu¬ 
sion.  .  .  .”  (28). 

The  narrator  associates  “Palace  at  4  a.m.”  with  a  lumin¬ 
ous  memory  from  the  brief  time  he  knew  Cletus  Smith, 
after  Fern  Smith  had  moved  to  town  and  just  before  the 
murder,  when  he  and  Cletus  would  play  on  the  framework 
of  the  unfinished  house  the  narrator’s  father  was  building. 
Each  evening  at  suppertime, 

we  climbed  down  and  said  “So  Long”  and  “See 
you  tomorrow,”  and  went  our  separate  ways  in 
the  dusk.  And  one  evening  this  casual  parting 


turned  out  to  be  the  last  time.  We  were  separated 
by  that  pistol  shot.  (33) 

Explicit  references  to  “Palace  at  4  a.m.“  recur  through¬ 
out  the  novel.  In  the  palace,  we  are  told,  the  walls  are  open, 
and  if  someone  walks  through  a  door  and  doesn’t  like  what 
is  on  the  other  side,  he  can  always  go  back  (146).  And  it 
is  in  the  palace  at  4  a.  m.  that  the  narrator  finds  Cletus  Smith; 

He  walks  in  the  Palace  at  4  a.m.  In  that  strange 
blue  light.  With  his  arms  outstretched,  like  an 
acrobat  on  the  high  wire.  And  with  no  net  to 
catch  him  if  he  falls.  (147) 

Such  direct  references  to  the  Giacometti  work,  though,  are 
only  a  part  of  an  elaborate  network  of  images  of  houses 
which  Maxwell  builds  up  through  the  novel.  For  the  narrator, 
the  death  of  his  mother  is  as  if  “1  had  inadvertently  walkec 
through  a  door  that  I  shouldn’t  have  gone  through  anc 
couldn’t  get  back  to  the  place  1  hadn’t  meant  to  leave”  (8) 
it  is  “that  door  I  had  walked  through  without  thinking”  (23) 
And  at  the  end  of  the  novel  he  reports  a  dream  about  t 
house  with  his  mother  in  it: 

Or  1  dream  that  1  am  standing  in  front  of  a  house 
on  Eighth  Street — a  big  white  house  with  a 
comer  bay  window  and  carpenter’s  lace  and 
scalloped  siding.  I  have  been  brought  to  stop 
there  on  the  sidewalk  by  the  realization  that  my 
mother  is  inside.  If  I  ring  the  doorbell,  she  will 
come  and  let  me  in.  Or  somebody  will.  And  I 
will  go  though  the  house  until  1  find  her.  (144) 

In  So  Long,  See  You  Tomorrow,  Maxwell,  lik 
Giacometti,  has  responded  to  loss  by  building  a  house  wit) 
mother  in  it.  The  book  we  hold  in  our  hands  is  a  palace  a 
4  a.m.,  a  fragile,  outlined  structure  filled  with  emotionall 
charged  fragments,  a  house  of  storytelling  where  you  ca 
always  go  back  through  doors  that  in  real  life  have  irrevoc 
ably  closed  behind  you  and  where  Cletus  Smith,  like  th 
artist  himself,  is  forever  doing  his  balancing  act  with  no  ne 
to  catch  him. 

The  materials  of  So  Long,  See  You  Tomorrow,  lik 
those  of  the  Studs  Lonigan  trilogy  and  Maud  Martha,  at 
drawn  from  the  concrete  realities  of  Illinois  life.  All  thre 
are  stories  of  Illinois  childhoods  that  begin  in  the  innocenc 
and  security  of  parental  homes  and  move  out  into  experienct 
represented  by  the  Chicago  streets  and  kitchenette  apartmei 
buildings  and  by  the  prairie  farms  and  small  towns  of  ha 
a  century  ago.  And  all  three  share  a  characteristically  Arne 
ican  and  perhaps  especially  Midwestern  capacity  for  a 
almost  boundless  sense  of  human  possibility  together  wii 
an  equally  extreme  capacity  tor  disillusionment.  But  i 
these  materials  all  three  bring  the  full  resources  of  a  ric 
and  sophisticated  modernist  conception  of  fiction.  T1 
result  is  a  modern  Illinois  fiction  that  rises  above  tl 
academic  conception  of  “regional”  fiction  to  genuine  ar 
permanent  distinction. 


FES 


Thomas  L.  Kilpatrick  and  Patsy-Rose  Hoshiko,  Illinois! 
Illinois!  An  Annotated  Bibliography  of  Fiction. 
(Metuchen,  N.J.:  Scarecrow,  1979). 

Virginia  Woolf,  “Mr.  Bennett  and  Mrs.  Brown,”  in 
Collected  Essays  (New  York:  Harcourt,  Brace,  and 
World,  1967),  1.320. 

I  cite  the  text  reprinted  in  This  Is  Chicago,  ed.  Albert 
Halper  (New  York:  Holt,  1952),  305-13. 

See  Forrest  L.  Ingram,  Representative  Short  Story  Cy¬ 
cles  of  the  Twentieth  Century  (The  Hague:  Mouton, 
1971),  143-99. 

James  T.  Farrell,  An  American  Dream  Girl  and  Other 
Stories  (New  York:  Vanguard,  1950),  14-27. 

Studs  Terkel,  Division  Street:  America  (New  York: 
Avon,  1968),  xxv. 

James  T.  Farrell,  Studs Lonigan  (New  York:  Vanguard, 
1935). 

Chicago  Tribune,  June  16,  1985,  Sect.  14,  p.  39.  How¬ 
land  also  cites  Farrell’s  own  joking  reference  to  the 
Time  magazine  attack. 


9.  “The  Writer  in  Chicago:  A  Roundtable,”  in  Chicago, 
ed.  Reginald  Gibbons  with  the  assistance  of  Fred 
Shafer.  A  Special  issue  of  TriQuarterly  60  (Spring/ 
Summer  1984),  333. 

10.  Sidney  H.  Bremer,  “Willa  Gather’s  Lost  Chicago  Sis¬ 
ters,”  in  Women  Writers  and  the  City,  ^d.  Susan  Merrill 
Squier  (Knoxville:  U  of  Tennessee  P,  1984),  212,  See 
also  Bremer’s  article  “Lost  Continuities:  Alternative 
Urban  Visions  in  Chicago  Novels,  1 890- 1915,” 

ings  64  (Spring  1981),  29-51. 

1 1 .  Gwendolyn  Brooks,  Maud  Martha  (New  York:  Harper, 
1953). 

12.  The  phrase  is  Virginia  Woolf’s.  See  A  Haunted  House 
and  Other  Short  Stories  (New  York:  Harcourt  Brace, 
1944),  103-11. 

13.  “Modem  Fiction,”  in  Collected  Essays  (New  York:  Har¬ 
court,  Brace,  and  World,  1967),  11.106. 

14.  William  Maxwell,  So  Long,  See  You  Tomorrow  (New 
York:  Ballantine,  1980). 


I 


53 


FICTION  SINCE  1915 


IMARY  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

;  following  list  is  highly  selective  and  has  been  assembled 
narily  with  suitability  for  teaching  in  mind.  For  a  much 
er  if  not  exhaustive  list,  see  the  1554  items  in  the  Kilpat- 
;-Hoshiko  bibliography.  A  major  problem  is  availability 
texts.  I  have  included  a  number  of  out-of-print  items 
irked  OP)  because  to  include  only  items  currently  in  print 
ild  give  a  very  distorted  notion  of  modem  Illinois  fiction 
because  out-of-print  items  occasionally  are  reprinted. 

.  title  is  marked  OP,  it  is  not  available,  as  of  1985,  in 
edition.  If  it  is  available,  I  have  given  not  only  the 
;inal  publication  data  but  also  the  publisher  and  date  of 
currently  available  edition.  Most  of  these  are  inexpensive 
erbacks  (Avon,  Penguin,  etc.),  but  a  few  are  photo- 
3hic  facsimiles  intended  primarily  for  libraries  and  tend 
)e  rather  expensive  (AMS  Press,  etc.).  I  hope  the  list 
1  therefore  serve  as  an  introductory  guide  not  only  for 
s  texts  but  also  for  teachers  who  would  like  to  do  extra 
kground  reading  and  for  librarians  who  might  be  in- 
sted  in  building  an  Illinois  fiction  collection  through 
ints  and  used,  out-of-print  books. 

ren.  Nelson.  Chicago:  City  on  the  Make.  Garden  City, 
N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1951.  OP 

The  Last  Carousel.  New  York:  Putnam’s,  1973. 

The  Man  With  the  Golden  Arm.  Garden  City,  N.Y.: 
Doubleday,  1949,  (Penguin,  1977). 

The  Neon  Wilderness.  Garden  City,  N.Y.-:  Doubleday, 
1947.  (Peter  Smith,  1960). 

Never  Come  Morning.  New  York:  Harper,  1942.  OP 

Somebody  in  Boots .  New  York:  Vanguard,  1935.  OP 

Algren’s  novels  have  not  worn  well.  His  book-length 
prose  poem  Chicago:  City  on  the  Make  is  more  in¬ 
teresting,  but  many  readers  find  his  combination  of 
brutal  naturalism  and  lyricism  unconvincing  and 
would  concur  in  Leslie  Fiedler’s  famous  dismissive 
epithet:  “the  bard  of  the  stumblebum.’’  For  teaching 
purposes,  one  could  do  worse  than  choose  one  or  both 
of  Algren’s  most  famous  short  stories:  “How  the  Devil 
Came  Down  Division  Street”  and  “A  Bottle  of  Milk 
for  Mother:  (both  in  The  Neon  Wilderness). 

lerson,  Sherwood.  Horses  and  Men.  New  York: 
Huebsch,  1923.  OP 

Four  stories  in  this  collection  are  set  in  Illinois.  “Milk 
Bottles,”  a  brief,  lyrical  story  about  writing  about 
Chicago,  is  an  excellent  story  for  teaching.  All  four 
stories  are  reprinted  in  The  Teller’s  Tales,  ed.  Frank 
Gado  (Schenectady:  Union  College  Press,  1983). 


“Milk  Bottles”  is  reprinted  in  the  Halper  anthology. 

Bellow,  Saul.  The  Adventures  of  Augie  March.  New  York: 
Viking,  1953.  (Avon,  1977). 

Dangling  Man.  New  York:  Vanguard,  1944.  (Avon, 

1975) . 

The  Dean's  December.  New  York:  Harper,  1982. 
(Pocket  Books,  1983). 

Herzog.  New  York:  Viking,  1964.  (Avon,  1976). 

Him  with  His  Foot  in  His  Mouth  and  Other  Stories. 
New  York:  Harper  and  Row,  1984. 

Humboldt’s  Gift.  New  York:  Viking,  1975.  (Avon, 

1976) . 

Mosby’s  Memoirs  and  Other  Stories.  New  York:  Vik¬ 
ing,  1968.  (Penguin,  1977). 

No  living  writer  has  made  better  use  of  Chicago  as  a 
setting  for  fiction  than  Saul  Bellow.  Augie  March,  as 
a  maturation  novel,  has  great  appeal  for  advanced 
students.  The  Dean’ s  December  is  a  didactic  novel 
that  develops  Bellow’s  sense  of  outrage  over  the  de¬ 
terioration  of  life  in  Chicago.  For  teachers  who  would 
prefer  to  present  Bellow  in  smaller  compass,  “Looking 
for  Mr.  Green”  (in  Mosby’s  Memoirs,  but  frequently 
reprinted)  is  a  rich,  evocative  story  that  captures  Bel¬ 
low’s  concern  with  the  survival  of  human  values  in  a 
modem  world  that  seems  inimical  to  such  values. 

Bradbury,  Ray.  Dandelion  Wine.  Garden  City,  N.Y.: 
Doubleday,  1957.  (Bantam,  1969). 

A  wonderfully  attractive  story,  well  suited  for  high 
school  students,  about  growing  up  in  Waukegan  (the 
novel’s  “Green  Town”).  Dandelion  Wine  would  fit 
well  into  a  series  of  Illinois  fiction  as  a  warm,  sym¬ 
pathetic  treatment  of  small  town  life. 

Brindel,  June.  Nobody  Is  Ever  Missing.  Chicago:  Story 
Press,  1984. 

This  collection  of  seventeen  short  stories  was  pub¬ 
lished  as  number  3  in  a  series  called  “Illinois  Writers.” 
Most  of  the  stories  are  identifiably  set  in  Illinois,  but 
most  are  so  private  and  internalized  that  little  is  made 
of  specific  settings.  An  exception  is  the  final  story, 
“The  Innocent  Now,”  set,  paradoxically,  in  Europe, 
where  a  Chicago  woman  visits  Dachau,  in  an  ironic 
contemporary  treatment  of  the  Jamesian  theme  of 
American  innocence  encountering  Eurojjean  experience. 

Brooks,  Gwendolyn.  Maud  Martha.  New  York:  Harper, 
1953.  (AMS  Press,  n.d.). 

Brooks’s  only  novel,  a  moving  and  wonderfully  teach¬ 
able  novel  about  growing  up  black  and  female  in 
Chicago. 

Brunner,  Bernard.  The  Face  of  Night.  New  York:  Frederick 
Fell,  1967.  OP 


I  I 


I  ! 


Sc 

CO-D 

r~-o 


55 


The  Golden  Children.  New  York;  Frederick  Fell, 
1970.  OP 

Six  Days  to  Sunday .  New  York:  McGraw-Hill,  1975.  OP 

Three  pieces  of  contemporary  Chicago  Naturalism, 
now  unfortunately  out  of  print. 

Burnett,  W.  R.  Little  Caesar.  New  York:  Lincoln  Mac- 
Veagh,  The  Dial  Press,  1929.  (American  Reprints, 
n.d.). 

A  classic  contribution  to  the  gangster  mythology  of 
Chicago  and  an  unexpectedly  well-written  novel. 

Colter,  Cyrus.  The  Beach  Umbrella.  Iowa  City:  University 
of  Iowa  Press,  1970. 

The  Hippodrome.  Chicago;  Swallow,  1973. 

Night  Studies.  Chicago:  Swallow,  1979. 

The  Rivers  of  Eros.  Chicago;  The  Swallow  Press,  1 972. 

Colter,  a  black  lawyer  and  member  of  the  Illinois 
Commerce  Commission,  began  writing  fiction  at  the 
age  of  fifty.  His  powerful  and  wonderfully  crafted 
stories  and  novels  cover  a  wide  range  of  Chicago  black 
experience,  from  the  lowest  social  class  to  the  highest. 
The  stories  in  The  Beach  Umbrella  provide  a  good 
sample  of  Colter’s  work;  the  title  story  and  “A  Man 
in  the  House”  would  both  be  excellent  for  classroom 
use. 

Coover,  Robert.  The  Origin  of  the  Brunists.  New  York:  Put¬ 
nam’s,  1966.  (Viking,  1978). 

Coover,  a  native  of  southern  Illinois,  is  one  of  the 
most  gifted  of  contemporary  American  Novelists. 
Most  of  his  work  is  indefinite  in  setting,  but  The 
Origin  of  the  Brunists,  though  set  in  an  imaginary 
Pennsylvania  town  called  West  Condon,  is  closely 
based  on  a  1951  mine  disaster  near  West  Frankfort, 
Illinois.  The  Origin  of  the  Brunists  is  a  wry,  modernist 
meditation  on  religion.  Regarded  as  an  Illinois  novel, 
it  not  only  evokes  the  southern  Illinois  landscape  viv¬ 
idly,  but  also  captures  a  certain  strain  in  southern 
Illinois  culture. 

Costello,  Mark.  The  Murphy  Stories.  Urbana:  U  of  Illinois 
P,  1973. 

The  Murphy  Stories,  a  collection  of  linked  short  stories 
that  amount  to  a  novel,  is  an  elegantly  crafted  work 
that  uses  its  Decatur  setting  as  an  integral  part  of  its 
narrative  of  male  maturation  and  initiation.  “Murphy’s 
Xmas,”  the  final  story  of  the  sequence,  has  been  often 
anthologized.  Costello’s  other  Murphy  stories  are  also 
eminently  readable  and  teachable,  especially  “The 
Soybean  Capital  of  the  World”  {Story  Quarterly,  nos. 
10-11  (1980)  and  “The  Anta  Santa”  (Black  Warrior 
Review,  Fall  1982). 

Dybek,  Stuart.  Childhood  and  Other  Neighborhoods.  New 
York:  Viking,  1980. 


Dybek,  who  has  published  in  The  Magazine  of  Fantasy 
and  Science  Fiction,  grew  up  in  the  Polish  neighbor¬ 
hoods  of  Chicago,  and  in  these  stories  he  combines  a 
James  T.  Farrell  kind  of  street  Naturalism  with  a  haunt¬ 
ing  East  European  folk  supernaturalism.  “The  Palatski 
Man”  and  “Blood  Soup,”  both  in  this  collection,  are 
unsettling  urban  myths  that  would  fascinate  a  class. 

Fair,  Ronald.  Hog  Butcher.  New  York;  Harcourt,  Brace  and 
World,  1966.  OP 

We  Can’t  Breathe.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row,  1972. 
OP 

World  of  Nothing.  New  York;  Harper  and  Row,  1970. 
(Chatham  Booksellers,  1970). 

It  is  a  pity  that  Hog  Butcher  and  We  Can't  Breathe  are 
out  of  print;  they  are  Naturalistic  novels,  tempered 
by  humor  and  irony,  of  life  in  the  black  ghettoes  ot 
Chicago’s  South  Side.  World  of  Nothing,  the  first  of 
the  two  novellas  in  the  volume  of  that  name,  is  a  very 
teachable  treatment  of  ghetto  life,  serious  and  compas¬ 
sionate  as  well  as  often  comic. 

Farrell,  James  T.  The  Short  Stories  of JamesT.  Farrell.  New 
York:  Vanguard,  1937.  OP 

Studs  Lonigan.  New  York;  Vanguard,  1935.  (Avon. 
1976). 

Farrell’s  fiction  is  an  indispensable  part  of  any  course 
on  Chicago  literature  or  the  Chicago  portion  of  an 
Illinois  literature  course.  The  ideal  text  is  his  master¬ 
piece,  the  Studs  Lonigan  trilogy.  But  this  819-page 
book  might  be  unrealistically  ambitious  in  most  teach¬ 
ing  situations;  an  alternative  would  be  only  Young 
Lonigan,  the  146-page  first  novel  in  the  trilogy,  a 
classic  Bildungsroman.  For  an  even  smaller  sampling, 
one  or  two  of  Farrell’s  short  stories  would  suffice;  the 
classic  and  much-reprinted  "The  Fastest  Runner  on 
Sixty-First  Street,”  “The  Benefits  of  American  Life." 
or  “For  White  Men  Only.”  (The  titles  listed  are  onl\ 
a  sample  of  Farrell’s  voluminous  production.  For  a 
complete  list  of  his  work  set  entirely  or  partially  in 
Illinois,  see  the  Kilpatrick-Hoshiko  bibliography.) 
Ferber,  Edna.  One  Basket .  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster. 
1947  (Doubleday,  1957) 

Ferber  launched  her  career  as  a  writer  of  best-selleo 
from  Chicago,  and  several  of  her  early  short  stories 
reflect  her  background  as  a  working  woman  in  the 
Chicago  of  the  first  quarter  of  the  century.  See  espe¬ 
cially  “The  Gay  Old  Dog,”  “Home  Girl,”  and  “Mothei 
Knows  Best.”  “The  Gay  Old  Day”  is  reprinted  in  the 
Halper  anthology. 

Finney,  Jack.  /  Love  Galesburg  in  the  Springtime.  New 
York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1963.  OP 

The  title  story  and  "A  Possible  Candidate  for  the  Pres¬ 
idency”  are  set  in  Galesburg  and  would  be  well  worth 
reprinting. 

56 


>rest,  Leon.  The  Bloodworth  Orphans.  New  York:  Random 
House,  1977.  OP 

There  Is  a  Tree  More  Ancient  Than  Eden.  New  York: 
Random  House,  1973.  OP 

Two  Wings  to  Veil  My  Face.  New  York:  Random 
House,  1983.  OP 

One  of  the  best  of  the  current  generation  of  Chicago 
black  writers,  Forrest  teaches  at  Northwestern  Univer¬ 
sity.  A  readily  available  sample  of  his  work  is  “Sub- 
Rosa”  in  the  Gibbons  collection.  This  wise  and  witty 
story  is  in  the  form  of  a  long  letter  to  Lyndon  Johnson 
from  the  hundred-year-old  Sweetie  Reed,  the  main 
character  in  Two  Wings  to  Veil  My  Face. 

anklin,  Miles.  On  Dearborn  Street  (1915).  St.  Lucia, 
Queensland:  Queensland  U.  P.,  1981. 

Unpublished  for  sixty-six  years,  this  interesting 
feminist  novel  was  recently  published  in  the  wake  of 
the  “rediscovery”  of  the  author  of  My  Brilliant  Career. 
An  Australian,  Franklin  lived  in  Chicago  from  1905 
to  1914,  and  the  novel  reflects  her  experience  there, 
on  the  eve  of  World  War  1. 

eund,  Edith.  Chicago  Girls.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schus¬ 
ter,  1985. 

A  fine  comic  novel  and  a  good  example  of  how  a  new 
generation  of  accomplished  woman  writers  are  cur¬ 
rently  reshaping  the  “Chicago  tradition.” 

irdner,  John.  The  King’ s  Indian.  New  York:  Knopf,  1974. 
OP  (Ballantine,  1976). 

The  late  John  Gardner  was,  like  Robert  Coover,  a 
contemporary  “fabulist”  most  of  whose  works  convey 
little  sense  of  a  particular  place.  But  three  of  the  stories 
in  The  King’s  Indian  reflect  his  eleven-year  residence 
in  Carbondale  as  a  professor  at  Southern  Illinois  Uni¬ 
versity.  “Pastoral  Care”  deals  with  a  Carbondale 
minister  at  the  time  of  student  protests  in  the  Sixties. 
“The  Ravages  of  Spring”  is  a  strange,  Poe-like  story 
built  around  a  devastating  southern  Illinois  tornado. 
And  the  title  novella  incorporates  southern  Illinois  in 
a  minor  way  as  the  setting  of  the  dream  home  of  the 
narrator,  Jonathan  Upchurch. 

;rard,  Charles.  Illinois  River  Hokeypokey .  Garden  City, 
N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1969.  OP 

A  broadly  comic  novel  about  bootlegging  days  in  Il¬ 
linois,  worth  reprinting. 

bbons,  Reginald,  ed.,  with  the  assistance  of  Fred  Shafer. 
Chicago.  A  special  issue  of  TriQuarterly,  Number 
60,  Spring/Summer  1984. 

A  book-length  issue  (438  pages)  of  TriQuarterly,  of¬ 
fering  a  generous  selection  of  current  Chicago  writing. 
This  would  be  a  fine  text  for  a  course  on  the  subject. 
Included  is  a  round-table  discussion  of  recent  Chicago 


writing  by  Maxine  Chernoff,  Cyrus  Colter, 
Stuart  Dybek,  Reginald  Gibbons,  and  Fred  Shafer. 

Guest,  Judith.  Ordinary  People.  New  York:  Viking,  1976. 
(Penquin,  1982). 

A  moving  family  novel  about  the  aftermath  of  the 
death  of  a  child,  set  in  Lake  Forest.  One  of  the  few 
extended  fictional  treatments  of  the  peculiar  pressures 
of  middle-class  life  in  the  contemporary  Chicago  sub¬ 
urbs.  The  basis  of  an  excellent  film,  which  might  well 
be  used  in  conjunction  with  the  novel. 

Halper,  Albert.  Chicago  Side-Show.  New  York:  Modern  Ed¬ 
itions,  1932.  OP 

The  Chute.  New  York:  Viking,  1937.  (AMS  Press, 
n.d.). 

The  Foundry.  New  York:  Viking,  1934.  (AMS  Press, 
n.d.). 

The  Golden  Watch.  New  York:  Henry  Holt,  195 3. OP 

The  Little  People.  New  York:  Harper,  1942.  (AMS 
Press,  n.d.). 

On  the  Shore.  New  York:  Viking,  1934.  OP 

Sons  of  the  Fathers.  New  York:  Harper,  1940.  OP 

ed.  This  Is  Chicago.  New  York:  Henry  Holt,  1952.  OP 

Half)er’s  work  needs  “rediscovery.”  His  1930’s  proleta¬ 
rian  novels  of  life  in  Chicago  foundries,  mail-order  com¬ 
panies,  and  department  stores  have  been  out  of  fashion 
but  seem  to  be  winning  a  new  readership,  as  suggested 
by  their  re-issue  by  the  AMS  Press  (although  in  expen¬ 
sive  library  editions).  A  sample  for  classroom  use  might 
be  Chicago  Side-Show  (a  22-page  pamphlet  which  has 
been  called  “as  perfect  a  description  of  the  town  as  has 
ever  been  written”)  or  the  autobiographical  sketches  in 
On  the  Shore.  This  Is  Chicago  should  be  reprinted;  it 
is  the  best  collection  of  Chicago  writing  and  would  be 
invaluable  for  classroom  use,  especially  if  supplemented 
by  the  Gibbons  collection. 

Hansberry,  Lorraine.  A  Raisin  in  the  Sun.  New  York:  Ran¬ 
dom  House,  1959.  (New  American  Library,  1961). 

A  Raisin  in  the  Sun  has  considerable  historic  signifi¬ 
cance  as  the  first  play  by  a  black  woman  to  be  produced 
on  Broadway  and  the  only  play  by  a  black  writer  to 
win  the  New  York  Drama  Critics  Circle  Award  as  the 
best  play  of  the  year.  A  quarter  of  a  century  later,  it 
holds  up  very  well:  slightly  dated  formally  perhaps 
but  still  touching  and  insightful  as  a  study  of  black, 
lower-middle-class  family  life  in  Chicago. 

Hansen,  Harvey.  Game  Time.  New  York:  Eranklin  Watts, 
1975.  OP 

A  fine  short  novel  about  growing  up  black  in  Chicago 
that  deserves,  reprinting. 


57 


Hecht,  Ben.  Broken  Necks.  Chicago:  Pascal  Covici,  1926.  OP 

Erik  Dorn.  New  York:  Putnam’s,  1921.  OP 

A  Thousand  and  One  Afternoons  in  Chicago.  Chicago: 
Covici-McGee,  1922.  OP 

Another  important  Chicago  writer  currently  unavaila¬ 
ble  in  print.  Erik  Dorn,  the  story  of  a  Chicago  news¬ 
paperman’s  struggles  with  himself  and  the  pressures 
of  his  time,  the  World  War  1  period,  is  one  of  the 
great  Chicago  novels.  Broken  Necks  and  A  Thou.sand 
and  One  Afternoons  in  Chicago  are  two  of  several 
collections  of  Hecht’s  short  stories  and  sketches, 
mostly  written  for  the  Chicago  Daily  News.  Three 
representative  sketches  are  reprinted  in  the  Halper  col¬ 
lection. 

Howland,  Bette.  Blue  in  Chicago.  New  York:  Harper  and 
Row,  1978.  OP 

Things  to  Come  and  Go.  New  York:  Knopf,  1983. 

Blue  in  Chicago  won  the  1978  prize  given  by  the 
Friends  of  American  Writers  for  the  best  book  by  a 
midwestem  author.  It  is  an  unusual  book  which  various 
reviewers  called  a  novel,  a  short-story  collection,  and 
an  autobiography.  Whatever  it  is,  it  is  one  of  finest 
contemporary  treatments  of  the  quality  of  Chicago 
life.  As  the  narrator  of  the  book  remarks:  “This  is 
Chicago,  you  have  to  understand.  We  are  not  in  the 
same  line  of  business  as  Paris,  London  or  New  York. 
Though  what  our  line  of  business  is  I’d  dearly  love 
to  know.’’  A  good  interview  with  Howland  about  this 
book  and  one  section  from  it  appear  in  Story  Quarterly 
10  (1980),  94-103.  Some  of  the  same  material  is 
explored  in  the  three  long  stories  that  make  up  Things 
to  Come  and  Go. 

Johnson,  Charles.  Eaith  and  the  Good  Thing.  New  York: 
Viking,  1974.  OP 

A  fascinating  novel,  currently  unavailable,  which  jux¬ 
taposes  Georgia  and  Chicago  in  its  treatment  of  black 
southern  immigrants  to  Chicago,  a  subject  it  treats  in 
a  haunting,  poetic,  magical  way. 

Kantor,  MacKinley.  Diversey.  New  York:  Coward- 
McCann,  1928.  OP 

El  Goes  South.  New  York:  Coward-McCann,  1930.  OP 

It’s  About  Crime.  New  York:  New  American  Library, 
1960.  OP 

MacKinley  Kantor  is  not  usually  thought  of  as  a 
Chicago  novelist,  but  Diversy  and  El  Goes  South, 
written  when  Kantor  was  a  young  man,  make  vivid 
use  of  their  Chicago  settings.  It’s  About  Crime,  pub¬ 
lished  thirty  years  later,  returns  to  Illinois  for  the  set¬ 
ting  of  eleven  short  stories. 

Klein,  Jerry.  Eathensday.  Peoria:  Ellis  Press,  1981. 

An  eloquent,  poetic  novel  by  a  Peoria  journalist  who 


uses  his  Peoria  setting  as  an  important  dimension  of 
his  story  about  fathers  and  sons. 

Lardner,  Ring.  Best  Short  Stories  of  Ring  Lardner.  New 
York:  Scribner’s,  1957. 

The  Ring  Lardner  Reader,  ed.  Maxwell  Geismar.  New 
York:  Scribner’s,  1963. 

Some  of  Lardner’s  best  short  stories,  including 
“Champion,”  “Horseshoes,”  “Some  Like  Them 
Cold,”  “Harmony,”  and  “Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fix-It,”  are 
set  in  Illinois,  recall  his  days  as  a  Chicago  newspaf>er- 
man,  and  represent  the  rare  but  important  strain  of 
satire  in  Illinois  writing.  “Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fix-It”  is 
reprinted  in  the  Halper  anthology. 

Levin,  Meyer.  Citizens.  New  York:  Viking,  1940.  (AMS 
Press,  n.d.). 

Compulsion.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1956. 
(Arbor  House,  1984). 

The  Old  Bunch.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1937. 
(Citadel,  1985). 

Citizens  is  based  on  the  slaying  of  ten  steel  workers 
in  Chicago  on  Memorial  Day ,  1 937 ,  while  Compulsion 
is  a  fictionalized  treatment  of  the  Leop)old-Leob  case. 
The  Old  Bunch  is  perhaps  the  classic  novel  of  Jewish 
life  in  Chicago. 

Lund,  Roslyn  Rosen.  The  Sharing.  New  York:  Morrow, 

1978.  OP 

A  sharp,  perceptive  novel  about  a  forty-five-year-old 
woman  in  the  aftermath  of  her  husband’s  death.  A 
fine  book  with  a  contemporary  Chicago  setting  that 
is  important  to  its  theme  and  one  that  has  helped  incor¬ 
porate  a  woman’s  point  of  view  into  the  "Chicago 
tradition.” 

Mamet,  David.  American  Buffalo.  New  York:  Grove,  1976. 

Glengarry  Glen  Ross.  New  York:  Grove,  1984. 

Sexual  Perversity  in  Chicago  and  The  Duck  Vari¬ 
ations.  New  York:  Grove,  1977. 

One  of  the  most  talented  of  the  new  “Chicago  School" 
of  playwrights.  Mamet  writes  almost  obsessively 
about  the  destructiveness  of  competitive  male  myths 
against  a  background  of  contemporary  Chicago  from 
the  singles  bars  of  Sexual  Perversity  in  Chicago  to 
the  seedy  junkshop  of  American  Buffalo  and  the  real 
estate  office  of  Glengarry  Glen  Ross.  Sexual  Perv  er¬ 
sity  and  American  Buffalo  won  Obie  awards  in  their 
first  New  York  productions,  and  Glengarry  Glen  Ross 
won  the  1984  Pulitzer  Prize  for  drama. 

Martin,  David.  The  Crying  Heart  Tattoo.  New  York:  Holt. 
Rinehart,  and  Winston,  1982. 

Tethered.  New  York:  Holt.  Rinehart,  and  Winston, 

1979. 


58 


Two  tough,  funny  novels  by  a  fine  new  novelist,  set 
wholly  or  partially  in  southern  Illinois. 

ixwell,  William.  The  Folded  Leaf.  New  York:  Harper, 
1945.  (Godine,  1981). 

Over  By  the  River,  and  Other  Stories.  New  York: 
Knopf,  1977.  OP 

So  Long,  See  You  Tomorrow.  New  York:  Knopf, 
1980.  (Ballantine,  1981). 

They  Came  Like  Swallows.  New  York:  Harper,  1937. 
(AMS  Press,  n.d.). 

Time  Will  Darken  It.  New  York:  Harper,  1948. 
(Godine,  1983). 

Maxwell  is  perhaps  the  most  accomplished  Illinois 
fiction  writer  since  the  First  World  War.  A  long-time 
fiction  editor  of  the  New  Yorker,  he  has  written  gentle, 
introspective  novels  which  have  mainly  centered 
around  his  childhood  in  Lincoln,  Illinois,  and  the  sub¬ 
sequent  events  of  his  young  manhood  in  Chicago  and 
at  the  University  of  Illinois  in  Urbana.  His  masterpiece 
is  perhaps  So  Long,  See  You  Tomorrow,  a  meditation 
upon  a  murder  case  in  the  Lincoln  of  the  narrator’s 
childhood  which  gradually  turns  into  a  meditation 
upon  memory,  art,  and  the  human  condition. 

)tley ,  Willard.  Knock  on  Any  Door.  New  York:  Appleton- 
Century-Crofts,  1947.  OP 

Let  No  Man  Write  My  Epitaph.  New  York:  Random 
House,  1958.  OP 

We  Fished  All  Night.  New  York:  Appleton-Century- 
Crofts,  1951.  (AMS  press,  n.d.). 

Motley’s  tough  Chicago  novels  cannot  be  omitted  from 
any  list  of  Illinois  fiction  despite  their  current  unavaila¬ 
bility  and  the  fact  that  their  combination  of  brutality 
and  sentimentality  now  seems  slightly  quaint.  Knock 
on  Any  Door  is  the  story  of  the  progress  of  Nick 
Romano  from  altar-boy  to  a  criminal  sentenced  to  the 
electric  chair.  Let  No  Man  Write  My  Epitaph,  its 
sequel,  deals  with  the  childhood  of  Nick  Romano.  We 
Fished  All  Night  treats  the  corruption  of  Chicago  poli¬ 
tics  through  the  interrelated  stories  of  three  young 
Chicago  men  in  the  years  just  after  World  War  11. 

Irakis,  Harry  Mark.  Days  of  Vengeance.  Garden  City, 
N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1983. 

A  Dream  of  Kings.  New  York:  McKay,  1966.  OP 

In  the  Land  of  Morning.  New  York:  McKay,  1973. 
(Lake  View  Press,  1984). 

Lion  at  My  Heart.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1959.  OP 

Nick  the  Greek.  Garden  City,  N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1979. 
(Lake  View  Press,  1984). 

The  Odyssey  of  Kostas  Volakis.  New  York:  McKay, 
1963.  OP 


Pericles  on  31st  Street.  Chicago:  Quadrangle  Books, 
1965.  OP 

The  Waves  of  Night  and  Other  Stories.  New  York: 
McKay,  1969.  OP 

Harry  Mark  Petrakis,  in  a  series  of  warm,  vital  novels, 
has  become  the  chief  chronicler  of  Chicago’s  Greek 
community.  The  novels  are  now,  fortunately,  being 
reissued  by  the  Lake  View  Press.  The  short  stories  in 
Pericles  on  31st  Street,  especially  the  title  story,  are 
a  good  introduction  to  Petrakis. 

Pichaske,  David.  The  Jubilee  Diary.  Peoria:  Ellis  Press,  1982. 

An  attractive  book,  like  Walden  on  the  boundary  of 
fiction  and  non-fiction.  The  Jubilee  Diary  is  Pichaske’s 
record  of  weekly  trips  to  Jubilee  College  State  Park 
through  the  cycle  of  a  year:  April  1980  to  April  1981. 
The  themes  are  nature,  the  Illinois  past,  and  self-knowl¬ 
edge. 

Powers,  John  R.  Do  Black  Patent  Leather  Shoes  Really  Re¬ 
flect  Up?  Chicago:  Henry  Regnery,  1975.  (Warner, 
1982). 

The  Last  Catholic  in  America.  New  York:  Saturday 
Review  Press,  1973.  [Warner,  1982]. 

The  Last  Catholic  in  America  traces  the  story  of  Eddie 
Ryan’s  growing  up  Catholic  in  Chicago  in  the  Fifties; 
Do  Black  Patent  Leather  Shoes  Really  Reflect  Up?  is  a 
very  funny  sequel  that  follows  Eddie  through  parochial 
high  school.  Wonderfully  readable  and  wonderfully 
teachable. 

Rikhoff,  Jean.  Dear  Ones  All.  New  York:  Viking,  1961 .  OP 

Voyage  In,  Voyage  Out.  New  York:  Viking,  1963.  OP 

Rites  of  Passage.  New  York:  Viking,  1966.  OP 

A  sprawling,  rather  sentimental  family  saga  which  traces 
the  Timble  family  of  Springfield  over  three  decades, 
from  the  Thirties  through  the  Sixties.  Out  of  print  and 
unlikely  to  be  reprinted,  the  Timble  trilogy  does  not 
lend  itself  to  class  use  but  would  be  an  interesting  addi¬ 
tion  to  a  library  shelf  of  Illinois  fiction. 

Ross,  Sam.  The  Sidewalks  Are  Free.  New  York:  Farrar, 
Straus,  1950.  (Reprinted  as  Melov's  Legacy,  Second 
Chance,  1984). 

Windy  City.  New  York:  Putnam,  1979.  OP 

Melov's  Legacy,  the  only  one  of  Sam  Ross’s  novels 
currently  in  print,  is  a  fine  maturation  novel  set  in 
Chicago  in  1918  and  dealing,  like  Ross’s  other  novels, 
with  the  Ukrainian  Jewish  community  on  Chicago’s  west 
side. 

Shepard,  Sam.  Buried  Child,  in  Seven  Plays.  New  York: 
Bantam,  1981. 

Buried  Child,  winner  of  the  Pulitzer  Prize  for  drama  in 
1979,  may  seem  an  odd  item  in  a  list  of  Illinois  fiction 
and  drama.  But  Shepard,  bom  and  brietly  resident  in 
Fort  Sheridan  in  1943,  in  this  play  adds  the  Illinois 


o 
m 
— I 
30 
-< 


\ 


59 


prairie — fecund  but  vaguely  sinister — to  his  mythologi¬ 
zation  of  the  American  landscape. 

Siegel,  Sam.  Hey,  Jewhoy.  Chicago:  S  and  G  Releasing  Co., 
1967.  OP 

A  novel  in  the  Studs  Umi^an  tradition,  tracing  a  Chicago 
boy’s  growing  up  not  into  maturity  but  into  self-destruc¬ 
tion.  A  powerful  book  well  worth  reprinting. 

Sinclair,  Harold.  American  Years.  Garden  City,  N.Y.; 
Doubleday,  1938.  OP 

The  Years  of  Growth.  Garden  City,  N.  Y.:  Doubleday, 

1940.  OP 

Years  of  Illusion.  Garden  City,  N.Y.:  Doubleday, 

1941.  OP 

Sinclair’s  “Bloomington  trilogy”  is  a  fictionalized  his¬ 
tory  of  Bloomington  (called  “Everton”).  American 
Years  covers  the  period  from  1830  to  1860,  The  Years 
of  Growth  from  1860  to  1900,  and  Years  of  Illusion 
from  1900  to  1914.  A  good  item  for  any  library  shelf 
of  Illinois  Fiction. 

Turpin,  Waters  E.  O  Canaan!  New  York:  Doubleday, 
Doran,  1939.  (AMS  Press,  n.d.). 

A  groundbreaking  novel  in  the  development  of 
Chicago  black  writing,  O  Canaan!  chronicles  the  im¬ 
migration  of  southern  blacks  into  Chicago  (“Canaan”) 
in  the  World  War  I  years  and  their  subsequent  fate 
over  the  next  two  decades,  through  the  exemplary 
stories  of  Joe  Benson  and  his  daughter  Essie. 

Van  Peebles,  Melvin.  A  Bear  for  the  FBI.  New  York:  Tri¬ 
dent,  1968.  OP 

A  gentle  maturation  novel  about  growing  up  in  the 
Forties  in  the  Chicago  black  middle  class. 

Wilson,  Lanford.  The  Mound  Builders.  New  York:  Hill  and 
Wang,  1976. 

This  play,  which  won  an  Obie  in  the  1975  season, 
takes  place  in  Blue  Shoals,  Illinois,  where  the  Wabash, 
Cumberland,  Ohio,  and  Mississippi  rivers  come  to¬ 
gether  and  the  supposed  site  of  a  rich  ancient  civiliza¬ 
tion.  The  play,  which  deals  with  the  archeological 
excavation  of  the  site,  turns  around  the  relation  of 
modem  midwestemers  to  the  distant  past. 

Wright,  Richard.  Eight  Men.  New  York:  World,  1961 .  OP 

Native  Son.  New  York:  Harper,  1940.  (Harper-Row, 
1969). 

Wright,  one  of  the  half-dozen  greatest  American 
black  writers,  set  several  of  his  works  in  Chicago, 
where  he  began  his  career,  including  his  master¬ 
piece,  Native  Son,  “The  Man  Who  Went  to 
Chicago,”  and  “The  Man  Who  Lived  Under¬ 
ground,”  the  last  two  of  which  appeared  in  Eight 
Men  but  have  been  frequently  reprinted. 


SECONDARY  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

This  list  includes  only  further  bibliographies  and  essays 
that  give  broad,  integrative  views  of  modem  Illinois  fiction. 
There  are  few  of  these.  (Hence  the  need  for  the  present 
volume.)  No  attempt  has  been  made  to  include  criticism  of 
individual  authors;  this  is  easy  enough  to  find,  and  inclusion 
of  even  a  selection  large  enough  to  be  useful  would  have 
made  the  list  impossibly  long. 

Anania,  Michael.  “A  Commitment  to  Grit.”  Chicago,  32 
(Nov.  1983),  200-201. 

An  eloquent  and  fresh  look  at  the  “Chicago  novel,' 
with  many  useful  generalizations. 

Anderson,  David  D.  “Chicago  as  Metaphor.”  Great  Lake: 
Review,  1  (1974),  3-15. 

Andrews,  Clarence  A.  Chicago  in  Story:  A  Literary  History 
Iowa  City:  U  of  Iowa  P,  1982. 

A  vast  compendium  of  facts  about  Chicago  literature 
Andrews  attempts  little  interpretation  but  provide: 
ample  raw  material.  Chapters  9  through  14  cover  thi 
period  under  consideration  here,  from  1920  to  1980 
Two  off-beat  and  amusing  appendices  list  myster 
stories  and  dime  novels  set  in  Chicago. 

“Literature  of  Place:  Chicago.”  Great  Lakes  Review 
5  (Summer  1978  and  Winter  1979),  67-92. 

This  bibliography  is  a  useful  supplement  to  the  massivi 
Kilpatrick-Hoshiko  bibliography,  which  appeared  th 
same  year,  because  Andrews,  unlike  Kilpatrick  ani 
Hoshiko,  includes  plays  and  films. 

Cohen,  Sarah  Blacher,  “Saul  Bellow’s  Chicago.”  Moder 
Fiction  Studies,  24(1978-79),  139-46. 

Flanagan,  John  T.  “A  Glance  at  the  Literature  of  Illinois. 
Story  Quarterly,  10  (1980),  60-66. 

Hook,  J.  N.,  Gerald  J.  Rubio,  and  Mary  Henley  Rubio.  “1 
linois  Authors.”  Illinois  English  Bulletin,  54  (Nov 
Dec.  1966),  1-56. 

Still  a  useful  listing.  The  authors  do  not  discriminai 
between  writers  who  write  about  Illinois  and  thos 
who  were  merely  bom  there. 

Hurt,  James.  “Images  of  Chicago,”  in  Roger  D.  Bridges  an 
Rodney  O.  Davis,  eds.  Illinois:  Its  History  and  Li 
gacy.  St.  Louis:  River  City  P.,  1984. 

An  attempt  to  survey  Chicago  literature  emphasizir 
images  writers  have  used  for  the  city. 

“Life  in  Prairie  Land:  The  Literature  of  Illinois.  / 
linois  English  Bulletin.  70  (Spring  1983),  38-49. 

Kilpatrick,  Thomas  L.  and  Patsy-Rose  Hoshiko.  Illinoi 
Illinois!  An  Annotated  Bibliography  of  Fictioi 
Metuchen,  N.J.:  Scarecrow,  1979. 


60 


A  remarkable  listing  of  1554  items,  each  well  anno¬ 
tated.  A  splendid  resource  for  the  study  of  Illinois 
fiction. 

emanic,  Gerald,  ed.  A  Bibliographical  Guide  to  Midwest¬ 
ern  Literature.  Iowa  City:  U  of  Iowa  P,  1981. 

,,  I 

!  1 

I  I 

I 

I 

I 

t 

( 


The  Illinois  sections  are  valuable,  especially  for  materials 
on  historical  and  socials  contexts  of  literatrure. 

“Chicago  in  Fiction.” 5toryQMartcr/y,  10(1980),  83-88. 

Rogers,  Bernard.  “The  Chicago  Novel.”  Illinois  Issues,  9 
(Nov.  1983),  17-24. 


-a 


61 


IV.  POETRY 
by  John  Knoepfle 


1.  LEGACY 

Illinois  poets  of  the  1800s,  those  who  published  books 
of  verse  or  contributed  extensively  to  magazines,  can  be 
read  conveniently  in  the  anthology  brought  out  by  E.  Earle 
Stibitz.  They  tend  to  suffer  from  the  need  to  match  sublime 
thoughts  to  a  literary  language  and  have  inherited  a  neoclas¬ 
sical  aversion  to  the  particular.  It  is  not  easy  for  them  to 
speak  simply,  especially  when  confronting  nature.  The  lan¬ 
guage  is  Miltonic,  somewhat  as  the  Romantics  were  in  the 
Drocess  of  shaping  it.  Phrases  such  as  “anxious  tumult,” 
‘deepening  shades,”  “fairy  hopes  of  future  bliss, “  “stem 
iire,”  “rear  of  deep  regret,”  gleam  fitfully  on  every  page. 

William  Asbury  Kenyon  is  a  great  offender  in  these 
natters.  In  “A  Winter  Morning  on  the  Prairie,”  he  describes 
i  sunrise: 

Deep  blazing  monarch,  ushered  by  the  mom. 

Glances  with  majesty,  wide  o’er  the  lawn. 

And  all,  erst  swaddled  in  transparent  white. 

With  dazzling  lustre  overcomes  the  sight .... 

\nd  so  on,  until  the  poor  sunrise  is  overwhelmed  with 
idjectives.  Micah  P.  Flint,  however,  does  get  a  sense  of 
he  atmosphere  in  “Lines  on  the  Mounds  of  Cahokia”; 

From  the  dark  summit  of  an  Indian  mound 

I  saw  the  plain,  outspread  in  softened  green. 

Its  fringe  of  hoary  cliffs,  by  moonlight  sheen 

And  the  dark  line  of  forest,  sweeping  round. 

The  earliest  of  the  poets,  William  Leggett  of  Ed- 
vardsville,  records  a  harsh  reality  that  too  often  confronted 
he  pioneer  settler.  In  “Lines  Written  on  Leaving  Illinois, 
August  29,  1822,”  he  says: 

‘Twas  here  I  follow’d  to  the  tomb. 

With  breaking  heart,  two  sisters  dear; 

Eliza,  too,  in  youthful  bloom. 

Was  snatched  away  and  buried  here. 

d.H.  Jenks  more  lightly  tells  of  a  population  done  in  by 
he  ague  in  his  “Farewell  to  Illinois”: 

Adieu,  Illinois!  and  to  all  thy  pale  livers. 

Thy  lily-faced  ladies  and  yellow-skinned  men, 

I  entered  thee  smiling,  and  leave  with  the  shivers; 

Let  other  folks  love  thee,  but  I  never  can. 

These  poets  often  write  of  social  concerns,  and  when 
hey  do,  the  language  is  spare  of  rhetorical  excess.  Kenyon 
:ould  say  of  the  Black  Hawk  War  in,  “About  Our  Late 


Indian  Hunt,”  that  it  was  a  “mthless  chase,/For  famished 
remnants  of  a  murdered  race.”  Although  not  an  abolitionist, 
B.F.  Stribling  of  Virginia  in  the  Sangamon  valley  wrote 
one  striking  couplet  in  “The  Evils  of  Slavery”:  “I  see  the 
lash  and  hear  the  sound/That  makes  the  body  all  one  wound.” 
And  John  Howard  Bryant  of  Princeton  in  his  1858  “Hymn” 
petitions  against  slavery: 

Hasten,  O  Lord,  the  hour. 

For  which  we  wait  and  pray; 

When  Thy  resistless  breath  of  power. 

Shall  sweep  the  curse  away. 

Regional  scholar  John  E.  Hallwas  of  Western  Illinois 
.University  has  recaptured  in  a  series  of  studies  several  of 
the  old-time  poets  not  available  in  Stibitz.  Robert  Goudy 
Jr.  of  Jacksonville  and  Thomas  Gregg  of  Hancock  County 
are  two  such  writers.  (The  Muse  in  Illinois,  41-43).  Another 
is  the  Mormon  poet  Eliza  Snow,  who  wrote  to  encourage 
the  Saints  as  they  departed  from  Nauvoo  after  the  murder 
of  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother: 

All  at  once  is  life  and  motion — 

Trunks  and  beds  and  baggage  fly; 

Oxen  Yok’d  and  horses  harness’d. 

Tents  roll’d  up  and  passing  by; 

Soon  the  carriage  wheels  are  moving 
Onward  to  a  woodland  dell. 

Where  at  sunset  all  are  quarter’d — 

Camp  of  Israel!  all  is  well. 

Hallwas  has  also  collected  and  published  poems  by  a 
Springfield  poet  known  only  as  “H”,  who  was  contributing 
to  the  Sangamo  Journal  from  1 83 1  to  1 846  and  to  the  London 
Literary  Gazette  from  1818  to  1835,  some  83  poems  in  all. 
An  urbane  and  witty  writer,  “H”  could  handle  quite  well 
the  forms  and  conventions  of  the  times,  in  English  and  in 
Scots  dialect.  In  “To  the  ‘Prairie  Bard,’”  he  challenges  an 
unnamed  Jacksonville  poet  to  celebrate  the  region  in  verse: 


There’s  few  sae  good  a  sod  can  boast. 
How  rich  her  fields,  how  fair  her  coast! 
What  store  of  deer  her  woods  maintain, 
Turkies  and  every  kind  o’  game! 

Let  us  each  hill  and  valley  sing 
And  keep  our  fancy  on  the  wing; 
Describe  the  blooming  prairie  green. 

As  first  in  summer  it  is  seen. 

Deck’d  out  in  flow’ers  o’  golden  sheen; 
When  earth  seems  blended  with  the  sky 
And  the  keen  hawk  is  circling  high. 

Like  death  aroun’  us  hovrin’  by. 

Then  mark  what  solemn  thoughts  inspire 
To  see  our  prairies  a’  on  fire; 

Or  far  off  in  the  wilderness. 

At  midnight  hear  the  wolf’s  distress. 


63 


He  concludes  by  saying  that  he  and  the  Prairie  Bard  will 
write  exalted  poems  about  the  Sangamon  and  the  Mauvaise 
Terre  rivers,  even  greater  than  the  poets  of  Florence  managed 
for  the  Po.  He  liked  to  write  with  his  tongue  in  his  cheek. 

John  Hay,  White  House  secretary  for  Lincoln  and  later 
secretary  of  state  under  Theodore  Roosevelt,  composed  his 
popular  Pike  County  ballads  in  the  187()s  but  shaped  them 
from  memories  and  characters  he  knew  as  a  boy  growing 
up  in  Spunky  Point  (now  Warsaw)  on  the  Mississippi  River 
and  in  Pittsfield,  county  seat  of  Pike  County.  Hay  tried — -as 
did  his  contemporary,  Bret  Harte — to  build  poems  from  the 
regional  speech  of  his  subjects.  He  is  important  as  an  in¬ 
novator,  a  ground  breaker  for  the  sinewy  poetry  of  common 
speech  that  characterizes  so  much  of  present  day  work.  A 
handy  selection  of  his  poems  and  stories  was  edited  by 
George  Monteiro  in  1984.  The  opening  stanzas  of  “Benoni 
Dunn”  are  taken  from  that  volume; 

I  sat  on  a  worm  fence  talking 
With  one  of  the  Bear  Creek  boys. 

When  all  the  woods  were  ringing 
With  the  blue  jay’s  jubilant  noise. 

Prairie  and  timber  were  glorious 
In  the  love  of  the  hot  young  sun. 

But  a  philosophic  gloom  possessed 
The  soul  of  Benoni  Dunn. 

“Nothin’  in  all  this  ‘varsal  yerth 
Is  like  what  is  ort  to  be, 

I’ve  given  up  tryin’  to  see  the  nub — 

It’s  too  hefty  a  job  for  me. 

The  weaker  a  feller’s  stummick  may  be. 

The  bigger  his  dinner,  you  bet. 

And  the  more  he  don’t  care  a  damn  for  cash. 

The  richer  he’s  sure  to  get!” 

His  poems  remain  as  a  gift,  a  gallery  of  frontier  characters — 
steamboat  engineer  Jimmy  Bludso;  Sergeant  Tilmon  Joy, 
Civil  War  veteran;  Old  Jedge  Phinn;  the  father  of  Little 
Breeches;  Golyer’s  friend  Ben,  who  drove  the  stage  on  the 
old  Sou’west  Line. 

By  the  time  the  century  drew  to  a  close,  Illinois  had 
changed  from  a  farmstead  frontier  to  an  agricultural-indus¬ 
trial  state.  Immigrants  had  arrived  from  the  old  country, 
swelling  the  population  and  changing  the  original  ethnic 
base  of  New  Englanders  and  Appalachian  southerners.  Poets 
had  to  find  a  language  that  could  do  justice  to  a  new  land¬ 
scape,  new  ideas,  new  people.  It  was  not  easy.  Llewellyn 
Jones  in  his  introduction  to  The  Chicago  Anthology  of  1916 
raises  a  quarrel  with  the  “one-sided  radicalism’*  of  the  “new 
industry”  of  poetry  in  Chicago  with  its  “slice  of  life”  that 
presents  the  city  as  a  hog  butcher.  The  anthology  was  in¬ 
tended  as  a  showcase  for  area  poets  who  were  not  special¬ 
izing  in  the  “grotesque  and  the  realistic.”  He  writes:  “now 
it  is  undoubtedly  true — we  have  olfactory  and  may  obtain 
auditory  evidence — that  Chicago  is  the  hog-butcher  of  the 
world,  but  whether  that  fact  can  fittingly  be  lisped  in  numbers 
is  another  question.”  Of  course  it  could  not.  That  was  the 


problem.  And  the  anthology,  whatever  its  original  purpose 
shows  poets  struggling  in  transition. 

Florence  Kiper  Frank,  in  “A  Girl  Strike-leader,”  is  one 
of  several  who  reflect  the  explosive  concerns  of  the  times; 

A  soul  that  steps  to  the  sound  of  the  life 
And  banners  waving  red  to  war. 

Mystical,  knowing  scarce  wherefore — 

A  Joan  in  a  modem  strife. 

And  Wallace  Rice  in  “Chicago:  An  Ode”  is  at  pains  to  fuse 
his  city  with  the  sublime; 

Beautiful  are  you  with  labor,  that  children  of  men 
may  be  blessed. 

Lovely  as  mothers  are  lovely  in  youth  with  a  child 
at  the  breast.  .  .” 

Because  they  are  writing  in  a  dated  language,  the  verse 
achieved  is  like  Victorian  furniture,  almost  rich  in  its 
craftmanship  but  cumbersome,  oppressive,  heavy.  How 
plain  and  effective  Carl  Sandburg’s  “Gone”  is  in  this  collec¬ 
tion.  It  almost  jumps  off  the  page; 

Everybody  loved  Chic  Lorimer  in  our  town. 

Ear  off 

Everybody  loved  her. 

So  we  all  love  a  wild  girl  keeping  a  hold 
On  a  dream  she  wants. 


Sandburg,  along  with  Edgar  Lee  Masters  and  Vachel 
Lindsay,  found  the  language  and  the  subject  matter  and 
made  the  transition  in  the  20th  century.  These  prairie  poets, 
the  pivotal  three,  drew  the  attention  of  the  nation  to  the 
Illinois  literary  scene  and  helped  invent  modem  poetry.  In¬ 
deed,  for  a  short  time  the  most  exciting  poetry  being  written 
in  English  was  coming  out  of  Chicago,  the  work  ot  these 
poets  and  their  friends  and  cohorts.  Their  reputations  have 
not  worn  as  well  as  they  might  have,  however,  given  their 
initial  fame.  Other  poets,  such  as  William  Carlos  Williams, 
became  the  model  for  those  who  would  write  in  the  American 
grain. 

But  acknowledged  or  not.  Sandburg,  Masters  and 
Lindsay  tried  out  most  of  the  approaches  that  became  the 
major  post  World  War  II  literary  movements — and  since 
writers  growing  up  in  the  1940s  and  ‘50s  were  inundated 
with  their  prairie  poems  in  high  school  anthologies,  the 
influence  may  be  more  p>ervasive  than  is  generally  conceded. 
Masters’  graveyard  confessions  in  Spoon  River — contlicted. 
argumentative,  gossipy,  quick  to  link  the  p)ersonal  and  the 
political— seem  to  foreshadow  the  confessional  poetr\'  o; 
the  1950s  and  ‘60s.  Sandburg’s  wonderful  images,  as  im 
mediate  and  evocative  today  as  they  were  over  a  half  centuiy 
ago.  surely  have  as  much  to  do  with  midwestem  deep  image 
poetry  as  the  work  of  Spanish  and  Gemian  surrealists.  Poe 


64 


prophet,  shaman  and  citizen;  poetry  as  incantatory  chant; 
2try  as  media  linking  the  oral  and  visual  arts-this  is  the 
;acy  of  Lindsay,  in  some  senses  the  most  radically  modem 
the  three. 

In  Illinois  these  poets  have  a  symbolic  stature  that  is 
nehow  beyond  critical  appraisal.  Collectively,  they  have 
en  depth  to  the  places  they  wrote  about  and  altered  the 
y  Illinoisans  perceive  themselves.  Springfield, 
ersburg,  the  Spoon  River  Valley,  Galesburg,  Chicago — 
se  places  are  understood  today  partly  in  terms  of  the 
Drts  the  prairie  poets  made  to  comprehend  them.  It  is  not 
prising  that  their  homes  are  state  and  local  landmarks  or 
t  their  various  centennials  have  been  occasions  of  celeb- 
on  and  a  deep-felt  sense  of  community. 


SOUTH 

At  this  point  any  attempt  at  holding  to  some  historical 
icture  will  be  abandoned  in  favor  of  a  survey  of  the  state 
ich  will  identify  poets  in  solitude  and  in  the  aggregate 
jrever  they  are  found  along  the  way.  This  survey  will 
;in  in  the  southeast  comer  of  Illinois  and  end  in  Chicago. 
Barney  Bush  is  a  member  of  the  Eastern  Band  Shawnee, 
was  bom  and  raised  in  Saline  County  and  lives  in  old 
ickers  Gap  (now  Herod).  It  is  on  the  edge  of  the  Illinois 
trks,  a  county  with  hills  high  enough  to  be  called  moun- 
is  and  with  free-running  springs.  He  says  he  is  related 
ilmost  everybody  in  that  area.  An  outgoing  man.  Bush 
worked  long  hours  in  the  Poets  in  the  Schools  Program — 
only  in  Illinois,  but  in  Kentucky,  New  York,  North 
olina  and  Vemiont.  His  Ohio  River  has  a  Shawnee  name, 
he,  like  so  many  native  Americans,  writes  ffom — as 
1  as  about — a  people; 

When  we  are  alone  alone 
our  words  are  cedar  boughs 
bending  but  my 
Shawnee  voice  cracks  when 
we  divide 

Herod  is  also  the  mailing  address  for  the  The  Sprin- 
use  Magazine:  Journal  of  the  Ozarks,  crammed  with 
il  materials  such  as  how  Old  Christmas  is  celebrated 
k  in  the  hills.  Gary  DeNeal  of  Harrisburg  is  the  editor, 
has  a  sheaf  of  poems  about  hill-bom  farmers,  Womble 
untain,  folks  around  town.  And  there  is  a  dog  named 
lowhead: 

He  knows  stars  and  everything 
Hinge  on  his  running. 

Once  he  stops 

Stars  will  pour  from  the  sky 
Like  scalded  milk. 

At  Carbondale,  Southern  Illinois  University  provides 
3me  and  a  hub  tor  area  poets.  Floyd  Olive  came  to  the 


university  as  a  graduate  student  in  1966,  about  the  same 
time  as  Stephen  and  Peg  Falcone  arrived  from  Philadelphia. 
Comfortable  in  this  mral  area,  they  are  the  spirits  who  edit 
Lunium  Wonders,  a  magazine  of  poetry,  prose  and  music 
scores  published  and  given  away  whenever  there  is  enough 
copy  and  the  editors  have  enough  energy  to  solicit  funding. 
Olive  is  an  accomplished  poet,  as  is  Bob  Randolph,  who 
is  published  in  quantity  in  Wonders.  As  neither  writer 
appears  elsewhere,  the  magazine  is  extremely  important 
on  that  count  alone. 

Maria  Mootry  is  one  of  the  founders  of  The  Poetry 
Factory.  This  is  an  organization  made  up  of  community 
members  and  students.  The  Poetry  Factory  sponsors  readings 
and  festivals  and  has  given  performances  at  Makanda  Java, 
a  Carbondale  coffee  house.  In  1983,  the  Factory  published 
Sestina,  a  chapbook  featuring  the  work  of  six  women.  In 
1984,  it  brought  out  coming  into  being,  poems  by  Shirlene 
Holmes  with  a  fine  introduction  by  Mootry.  There  is  a  spare, 
eager  quality  in  the  poems,  as  in  these  lines  from  “service 
in  my  heart’: 


t 


i 

I 


It  gets  hot  in  the  service 
and  so  lull  of  blood  and  water 
a  legion  of  angels 
got  to  flap  their  wings 
to  get  some  cool  in  that  place 


The  possibility  of  receiving  a  minor  in  creative  writing 
attracts  about  50  percent  of  the  literature  students  at  Southern 
Illinois  University-Carbondale.  Evidently  the  writing  com¬ 
ponent  in  the  degree  dates  back  to  1972,  although  May 
Sarton  served  as  poet  in  residence  as  early  as  the  summer 
of  1945.  A  poem  she  wrote  describing  her  experience  can 
be  found  in  Land  Between  the  Rivers.  And  John  Gardner, 
novelist,  critic,  medievalist,  served  on  the  faculty  from  1965 
to  1974.  There  are  four  poets  on  the  staff  at  this  time.  James 
Solheim  is  a  graduate  of  the  Iowa  Writers  Workshop  and 
adviser  to  the  student  publication.  Grassroots.  Carol  Pier- 
man’s  book.  The  Naturalized  Citizen,  was  published  by 
New  Rivers  Press.  In  1985  she  was  awarded  a  literary  fel¬ 
lowship  from  the  Illinois  Arts  Council.  Judy  Little  has  been 
many  years  on  the  faculty.  She  is  the  author  of  two  books. 
Provinces  and  Prayers  and  Other  Edges.  Her  experiments 
with  the  use  of  sapphics  may  account  for  some  of  the  delicate 
rhythms  in  “Reciting  Psalms’’  from  Prayers: 

We  sing 

Among  candles  that  center  the  blue  space 
Between  our  voices,  each  flame  a  small-circled 
Glory  overlapping  others,  like  the  answering 
Reflections  of  a  floating  moon 
Might  wrestle  and  relax,  trying  to  speak 
Its  light,  by  waves  and  wallows 
In  the  overturning  water  .  .  . 

Rodney  Jones  whose  book  has  the  haunting  title.  The 
Story  They  Told  Us'  oj  Light,  claims  to  have  grown  up  in 


65 


the  smallest  town  in  Alabama  and  so  feels  at  home  in  sparsely 
settled  southern  Illinois.  His  book  won  an  Associated  Writ¬ 
ing  Programs  Award.  Boyhood  memories,  raw  enough,  per¬ 
vade  “On  Leaving  the  Farm”: 

Twelve  springs  in  the  saddle,  1  could  not  plough 
the  furrow  straight,  but  jolted  in  the  wrong  gear 
leveling  fences  and  hedgerows  like  a  red  conspiracy, 

grew  muscles  like  a  fish,  but  cursed  hay  bales 

into  bams. 

Jones  has  a  second  book.  The  Unborn,  published  by  the 
Atlantic  Monthly  Press  in  1985. 

Steve  Tietz  lives  in  Benton,  about  30  miles  north  of 
Carbondale,  and  teaches  at  Rend  Lake  College.  Back  some 
years  ago  at  Macomb,  he  co-founded  the  still  flourishing 
Mississippi  Valley  Review.  The  title  of  his  book.  Gnawing 
the  Bark  from  the  Neighbor’s  Dog,  should  warn  the  reader 
there  will  be  a  quirky,  likable  voice,  as  in  “Wake  Me  When 
it’s  Over”: 

I  do  fervently  hope 

that  when  it’s  my  turn  to  wake  for  you, 
you’ll  keep  a  firm  grip  on  the  lily 
and  not  go  groping  for  the  throats 
of  those  who  come  to  pay  respects. 

Cate  Dunquin’s  40  acres,  about  50  miles  north-north¬ 
east  of  Benton  and  not  far  from  Johnsonville,  is  a  place  for 
raising  sheep,  hay  and  soybeans.  Dunquin  is  a  graduate  of 
Blackburn  College  and  has  been  writing  poems  for  10  years. 
In  “Some  Memories  Want  to  be  Alone,”  she  presents  a 
series  of  recollections,  the  last  of  which  is  a  lost  month  on 
the  coast  of  Ireland: 

Skin  was  inner  horizon  until 
I  dressed.  Then  the  tide  retreated 
from  beneath  the  flesh, 
miniaturized  into  the  legbone’s 
porous  hiding  places. 

Waiting  for  sleep’s  full  moon. 

Small  towns  have  their  superb  artisans — printers,  quil- 
ters,  gunsmiths,  weavers,  and  poets,  too,  counterparts  to 
these.  In  Olney  where  white  squirrels  can  truly  be  found. 
Major  Regain  is  such  a  hard-edged  poet.  “Gail  Ray’s  Drown¬ 
ing  in  Olney  Poem”  ends  with  a  goodby  and  a  plea: 

Goodnight,  snowwoman, 
iceboxed  heel  to  head, 
turning  between  the  poles, 
the  North,  the  South. 

The  plea  is  that  Gail  Ray  will  protect  him  from  the  hum¬ 
mingbird  that  will  sip  the  honeyed  life  of  his  brain  one  day. 
Now  come  due  west  on  old  50  to  O’Fallon,  Chuck 


Miller’s  town.  He  followed  the  migrant  workers  across  tht 
country’s  harvests.  His  beautifully  printed  book  was  handse 
and  handsewn  into  Fabriano  Ingres  wrappers.  The  poem 
are  long  and  ample  on  the  pages.  They  move  from  com 
prehension  to  deepening  anger,  through  memorable  work 
such  as  “when  you  live  in  your  car”  and  “free  clinic,”  unti 
the  final  statement  is  reached  in  “rising  up.” 

rising  up  morning  after  morning 

which  way  do  you  turn 

which  brother  do  you  try  to  convince 

of  something  he  already  knows  in  his  bones 

Straight  west  of  O’Fallon  below  the  bluffs  is  Cahokia 
Elias  Chiasson  lives  here,  18th  centry  scholar  and  poet  wh 
is  concerned  to  write  a  spare,  clear  line: 

The  Dinosaur 
His  rictal  head 

Smiling  at  something  in  the  clouds 

Made  Janell  laugh 

Her  eyes  like  warm  mice 

She  stroked  the  “fur”  on  grampa’s  hands 

Wanted  me  to  find  the  page 

Where  the  lamps  were 

On  New  Year’s  he’s  been  known  to  join  with  others  in  tf 
town  and  sing  the  old  French  welcoming  in  songs  that  g 
back  to  the  1700s  in  this  part  of  the  Mississippi  'Valley. 

Those  who  travel  back  and  forth  across  the  Mississip 
and  identify  with  the  communities  on  both  sides  are  liab 
to  make  much  of  the  river  in  their  poems.  Peter  Simpsoi 
who  lives  in  St.  Louis  and  works  at  Southern  Illinois  Ur 
versity  at  Edwardsville,  gives  the  river  an  appraising  ey 
“the  water  sucks/the  chilly  drizzle”.  Richard  Deutch,  a  Bt 
leville  poet  writing  in  the  ’60s,  speaks  of  the  river  pilot  ai 
the  ruination  of  herons.  Eugene  Redmond,  one  of  the  fou 
ders  of  Black  River  Writers,  named  one  of  his  books  Riv 
of  Bones  and  Flesh  and  Blood.  The  late  Arthur  Brown 
St.  Louis  could  subject  it  to  extraordinary  fancies  in  “Mi 
sissippi  River  Poem”  from  A  Trumpet  in  the  Morning”: 

when  it  appeared  in  woods 

nobody  heard  the  splash  of  its  dirt  red  grin 

nobody  saw  it 

you  didn’t  laugh  at  the  catfish  in  its  teeth 
you  didn’t  hunt  mushrooms 
you  didn’t  drown 

Simpson  taught  in  East  St.  Louis  in  the  residence  cenr 
established  by  Southern  Illinois  University.  This  was  in  t? 
mid-50s.  Gene  Redmond  was  a  student  there.  By  the  Ts 
both  were  teaching  on  the  Missouri  side  of  the  river.  al 
Redmond  was  in  graduate  studies  at  Washington  Universi 
The  center  was  merged  with  the  residence  center  in  Alti 
to  form  the  new  SlU  campus  at  Edwardsville.  By  the  midi^ 
’60s  there  was  an  exciting  scene  in  St.  Louis,  mainly  at 
Circle  Coffee  House  in  Laclede  Town  where  the  area  pos 


66 


jre  reading,  a  scene  which  culminated  in  the  Peacock 
Iley  reading  given  by  Redmond  and  Washington  Univer- 
;y’s  Donald  Finkel  before  a  huge  audience. 

Meantime,  after  the  closing  of  the  residence  center, 
U-Edwardsville  had  instituted  an  Experiment  in  Higher 
lucation  in  East  St.  Louis,  Poets  Hale  Chatfield  and 
snry  Dumas  were  on  the  staff.  They  had  been  students 
gether  at  Rutgers  and  later  worked  in  the  Upward  Bound 
ogram  at  Hiram  College  in  Ohio.  Dumas  was  an  exciting 
an,  as  Redmond  remembers,  electric,  magnetic,  moody, 
is  work  was  vibrant  and  militant,  rooted  and  centered 
black  culture: 

play  ebony  play  ivory 
play  chords  that 
speak  primeval 
play  ebony  play  ivory 
play  notes  that 

speak  my  people  .  .  . 

umas  came  to  East  St.  Louis  in  1967,  a  dynamic  force. 
It  in  the  tragic  year  following  was  killed  by  a  guard  in 
New  York  subway.  Redmond,  who  became  his  literary 
lecutor,  also  wrote  the  elegy  from  which  these  lines  are 
ken: 

Four  passengers  in  the  fourth  car. 

Divided  by  a  generation  of  intellect. 

But  feeling  a  common  pain, 

A  mutual  bewilderment: 

Four  grim  faces  of  the  oppressed. 

By  the  mid-60’s,  Katherine  Dunham  had  founded  the 
jrforming  Arts  Training  center  in  East  St.  Louis.  She  was 
poet  as  well  as  a  choreographer  and  dancer.  Examples  of 
;r  work,  such  as  “Mathematics”  from  which  these  lines 
e  taken,  can  be  found  in  the  Shuman  anthology: 

What  do  I  want? 

To  be  to  do 
The  same  identical 
Things  as  you 

And  just  as  two  times  four  is  eight 
I  want  more  because 
I’m  late. 

/hen  her  dance  troop  toured  the  country,  the  poets  went 
long.  The  performances  included  readings  by  Redmond 
nd  others  as  well  as  theater  and  ballet.  Redmond  left  Illinois 
tr  a  position  at  Sacramento  State  in  1970,  but  not  before 
e  edited  Sides  of  the  River:  A  Mini  Anthology  of  Black 
/riting,  which  presented  works  by  Romenetha  Washington, 
ionald  Henderson,  Saundra  Reynolds,  Sherman  Fowler  and 
thers  who  are  still  in  the  area.  Within  the  past  year  he  has 
eld  an  appointment  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin  at  Madi- 
on,  and  he  has  been  home  because,  as  he  says:  “I  miss  the 
iver  and  the  roots.” 

Peter  Simpson  is  another  poet  whose  interests  span 


the  river.  A  lifelong  resident  of  St.  Louis,  former  alderman 
and  dedicated  Cardinals  fan,  he  has  been  associated  with 
Southern  Illinois  University  first  at  East  St.  Louis  and 
then  at  Edwardsville  since  the  1950s.  A  volume  of  his 
selected  poems.  Stealing  Home,  was  brought  out  in  1985 
by  BkMk  Press/University  of  Missour-Kansas  City.  A 
meditative  poet  with  a  deep  sense  of  family  and  a  care 
for  all  that  is  frail  and  vulnerable,  he  draws  from  many 
sources.  Here  are  lines  for  his  grandmother  from  the  poem 
“Austin  Simpson,  Mary  White”: 

By  acclamation,  she  was  Queen 
a  princess  of  land,  I  can  see 
her  dancing  in  the  broad  meadows 
near  the  coal  fields  of  Glen  Carbon. 

Sou'wester,  the  literary  magazine  sponsered  by  the 
SIU-Edwardsville  English  Department,  has  been  published 
since  1960.  The  present  editor  is  Dickie  Spurgeon,  who 
notes  that  the  magazine  has  sought  local  as  well  as  national 
talent  from  the  first  issue  until  the  present. 

Greenville  College  is  located  in  a  pleasant  town  about 
35  miles  east  of  Edwardsville  on  the  East  Branch  of  Shoal 
Creek.  Elva  McAllister,  who  has  published  widely  in  the 
religious  and  secular  press,  has  taught  there  for  many  years. 
These  are  lines  in  “From  and  Inferno,”  concerned  with  a 
popular  false  prophet: 

We  loved  sonorous  sound. 

More  strident  speech. 

More  raspings,  might  have  taught 
to  teach. 

Eastern  Illinois  University  in  Charleston  offers  an 
interdisciplinary  minor  in  creative  writing.  Bruce 
Guernsey  helps  to  administer  this  program.  He  is  author 
oi  January  Thaw,  from  which  these  lines  are  taken.  He 
has  learned  to  think  in  terms  of  level  horizons  which  often 
contain  ghosted  voices: 

something  I  woke  jogging  by, 
one  of  those  kids  maybe 
in  the  forest  of  com, 
hear  him,  the  closer  I  get, 
running  away. 

Poets  John  Guzlowski  and  Beth  Kalikoff  are  also  on  the 
staff.  Guzlowski  is  the  present  editor  of  Karamu,  a  national 
magazine  of  poetry  and  prose  that  is  produced  by  the  EIU 
faculty.  Beth  Kalikoff  is  also  on  the  staff.  The  program 
brings  in  writers  for  readings  and  extended  residencies. 

Eastern’s  scene  as  it  now  exists  is  the  legacy  of  the 
late  Allen  Neff,  who  joined  the  faculty  in  1967.  Neff  died 
in  1977.  The  January  1979  issue  of  Karamu  contains  a 
memorial  selection  of  his  poems  and  is  guest  edited  by 
Laurence  Lieberman  and  Kay  Murphy,  who  worked  with 
Neff  during  his  last  days  to  put  the  selection  together.  These 


] 


67 


lines  from  “On  Being  Told  that  my  House  Will  Be  under  a 
Lake”  can  speak  for  him: 

My  ark  has  tumbled  to  the  bottom  and 
snapped  its  keel.  1  float  through  windows 
and  reclaim  my  skin  in  foam  near  shore. 

Mattoon,  where  U.S.  Grant  mustered  the  21st  Illinois 
Infantry  into  service  in  1861,  is  about  12  miles  west  of 
Charleston.  Modern  Images  is  printed  there.  This  is  an  an¬ 
thology  of  poems  written  for  the  most  part,  but  not  necessar¬ 
ily,  by  members  of  M  I  Poets,  a  group  of  area  poets  that 
has  been  in  existence  since  the  early  ’7()s.  Chapbooks  are 
also  issued.  Sue  Morgan  of  Mattoon  is  the  present  publisher. 
There  are  other  such  groups  in  the  state.  For  instance,  the 
Illinois  State  Poetry  Society,  an  adjunct  of  the  national  so¬ 
ciety,  publishes  an  anthology  called  Lincoln  Log.  Edited  by 
Prentice  Douglas  of  Raymond,  it  is  an  annua!  of  the  society’s 
award  winners.  In  Belleville,  a  senior  citizens  group  which 
meets  in  the  Multi-Purpose  Center  of  the  Belleville  Area 
College,  has  been  editing  Sharing  since  1980.  The  McKen- 
dree  Writers’  Association  in  Lebanon  prints  the  winners 
from  the  writers’  conference  held  annually  at  McKendree 
College.  This  conference  is  now  in  its  thirty-first  year — a 
longstanding  affair  like  the  college  itself,  which  was  founded 
in  1828.  University  Women,  a  quarterly  edited  by  Gail  Getz 
and  published  by  the  Illinois  State  Division  of  the  American 
Association  of  University  Woman,  prints  the  best  poems 
submitted  by  its  members.  In  the  early  1980s,  the  association 
sponsored  poetry  contests,  administered  by  Viola  Walker 
of  Central  ia. 

Kay  Murphy  has  moved  to  New  Orleans,  but  for  a 
score  of  years  she  wrote  from  Danville.  In  “The  Tatooed 
Carnation”  the  poet  speaks  from  Louisiana  with  a  remembr¬ 
ance  of  Illinois; 

It’s  too  wet 

to  bury  the  dead  here  in  New  Orleans. 

In  the  Midwest 

autumn  should  be  asserting  itself 
in  stifling  bronzes  of  silence. 

So  1  walk  downtown 
get  a  carnation  drilled  over  my  breast 
to  be  sure  1  will  be  distinguished 
among  the  many 

anonymous  hearts  who  are  hushed. 

3.  CENTRAL 

When  Kerker  Quinn  came  to  the  University  of  Illinois 
in  1940,  he  was  already  an  editor  with  a  national  reputation. 
A  year  after  his  graduation  from  Bradley  University  in  Peoria 
in  1934,  he  had  founded  the  little  magazine.  Direction:  A 
Quarterly  of  New  Literature,  which  numbered  Robert  Frost, 
Conrad  Aiken,  Ezra  Pound,  Herbert  Read,  Paul  Horgan, 
Wallace  Stevens,  Kay  Boyle  and  William  Carlos  Williams 
among  its  contributors.  At  University  of  Illinois  he  reestab¬ 


lished  the  magazine  as  Accent  and  guided  it  through  20 
brilliant  years. 

There  had  been  literary  activity  on  campus  before  Quinn 
came.  Two  volumes  of  verse  had  been  published  earlier; 
mini  Poetry  1918-1923  and  Illini  Poetry  1924-1929.  Con¬ 
tributors  were  members  of  the  university’s  Poetry  Society, 
organized  in  1 9 1 8  by  Allene  Gregory,  daughter  of  University 
of  Illinois’  founding  president.  Interest  in  poetry  had  been 
quickened  by  the  Chicago  Rennaisance,  and  these  volumes 
were  in  a  sense  a  response  to  that.  But  Accent  was  more 
than  a  response;  it  was  a  stimulus  to  the  new  poetry  develop¬ 
ing  after  World  War  11.  Quinn's  forte  was  the  literary  essay 
and  critical  analysis,  and  his  magazine  was  one  of  the  best 
in  the  country.  At  the  University,  he  engaged  in  epic  argu¬ 
ments  with  his  friend  and  colleague,  Bruce  Weirick,  who 
had  edited  the  first  of  the  Illinois  Poetry  volumes  and  was 
a  great  admirer  of  Sandburg,  acting  as  his  host  whenever  the 
poet  visited  the  campus.  As  far  as  Weirick  was  concerned, 
Sandburg  had  no  peer — and  that  included  the  “despicable" 
T.S.  Eliot.  Perhaps  because  of  Weirick’s  interest,  the  univer¬ 
sity  purchased  several  tons  of  Sandburg  memorabilia  for  its 
library  holdings.  Quinn’s  literary  estate  was  willed  to  the 
university  also.  He  had  ceased  publication  of  Accent  in 
1960,  but  continued  to  teach  creative  writing  until  his  death 
in  1969. 

Since  1 974,  University  of  Illinois  poet  and  fiction  writer 
Dan  Curley  has  edited  Ascent,  a  magazine  of  poetry  and 
short  fiction.  The  poet  Michael  Van  Wallinghan  has  been 
on  the  U1  staff  since  1970.  He  has  two  volumes:  The  Wichita 
Poems  ( 1975)  and  More  Trouble  with  the  Obvious  ( 1981 ). 

Laurence  Lieberman,  poet  and  critic,  arrived  in  1966. 
He  is  poetry  editor  for  the  University  ol  Illinois  Press,  which 
has  published  a  number  of  midwestem  poets  in  recent  years. 
His  books  of  criticism  include  The  Blind  Dancers:  Ten  Years 
of  American  Poetry  and  Unassigned  Frequencies:  American 
Poetry  in  Review.  Among  his  books  of  poems  are  The  Osprey 
Suicides  and  God’s  Measurements.  Lieberman  is  a  poet  of 
amplitude  who  enjoys  roaming  a  page.  Many  of  his  poems 
capture  moments  of  terror  and  delight  during  travels  in  the 
Caribbean  and  Japan.  But  these  lines  from  “inside  the  Gyros¬ 
cope”  describe  a  turn  on  a  ride  at  the  Champaign  Count) 
Fair — a  contraption  of  enclosed,  spinning  cages — and  an 
aging  father’s  horror.  The  shape  of  the  lines  suggests  the 
spiraling  motion  of  the  machine; 

Now  we  halt. 

trapped  in  the  middle  of  a  reverse  somersault 
careening,  heels  over  heads, 
rocking  on  the  base  of  our  skulls.  We  are  staring 
straight  up,  fifty  feet  to  the  ground, 
into  three  ovoids — family  faces — high  overhead.  .  . 

The  Literary  Magazine  is  a  voice  tor  La  Casa  Cultural 
Latina  on  campus.  A  number  ot  poets  writing  in  Spanish 
appear  in  this  journal;  Angel  M.  Rodriguez,  Jesus  Yepez. 
Edwin  Chavez,  for  example.  Carmen  M.  Pursitull  is  a 


68 


quent  contributor.  “Premonition”  from  her  book  Car- 
•n  by  Moonlight  ends  with  these  lines — a  mother  saluting 
ieceased  husband: 

She  nods  replying,  “Es  verdad,  he 
is  asleep  at  last.  Buenos  noches  mi 
viejo,”  she  cries  to  the  empty  bench 
but  the  only  answer  is  the  quiet 
echo  in  her  mind. 

lite  recently,  the  Feminist  Forum  sponsored  an  evening 
women  writers  at  the  McKinley  Foundation.  A  group 
me  together  for  that  occasion  and  read  under  the  banner: 
Hack  women  writers  speak  out” — among  them  Elaine 
elley,  Cheryl  West  and  Jin  Goines.  And  for  a  number  of 
ars  now,  the  Red  Herring  Poets,  most  of  them  from  Cham- 
ign-Urbana,  have  held  readings  and  workshops  on  a  reg- 
ir  basis.  Organized  by  Robert  Bensen  in  1974,  the  group 
s  been  producing  yearly  anthologies  since  then  and  rather 
le  chapbooks  by  individual  writers.  Elizabeth  Klein,  Mar¬ 
ti  Gerstein,  Netta  Gillespie,  Patricia  McGinty,  Alex 
iwyer  and  James  LaRue  are  or  have  been  members. 

Kathryn  Kerr  served  as  director  of  the  Red  Herring 
lets  in  1980-1981.  She  is  also  identified  with  a  group  of 
lets  from  central  and  western  Illinois  who  are  concerned 
ith  the  rural  narrative  voice.  They  first  read  together  at 
e  Illinois  Writers  Conference  at  Millikin  University  in 
>82.  The  other  three  are  Deborah  Bosley  of  Decatur,  Ron 
everman  of  Green  view  and  Springfield,  and  Duane  Taylor 
■  Carthage. 

These  four  poets  know  how  rich  the  life  is  that  is  hidden 
om  the  main  highways,  the  wisdom  that  comes  with  a 
insciousness  of  slow  time,  the  stiff-jawed  endurance 
;eded  to  live  it,  and  the  tragedy  waiting  for  those  who 
Dine  short  of  its  demands.  Kerr  writes  of  the  last  harvest 
n  the  farm  in  “First  Frost”: 

Tomato  plants  sprawled  drunkenly  as  we 
picked  their  pockets  of  red,  then  orange,  then 
yellow,  before  we  turned  to  the  squash  and  took 
everything  as  big  as  a  fist.  Then  we  kidnapped 
little  cucumbers.  .  .  . 

Bosley  can  say  of  Hattan  Curry,  “we  believed  blue 
yes  which,  like  farmer’s  vision/saw  past  the  hilled  horizon.” 
he  speaker  in  Deverman’s  “Letter  from  an  Old  Farmer” 
urns  up  his  life  and  purpose  with  these  words:  “I’ve  lived 
ard.  Worked  the  same  land  my/grandfather’s  father/disco- 
ered  in  a  haze  of  sweat.”  And  Taylor  closes  a  poem  on 
dultery  and  murder  with  these  lines: 

But  she  never  set  a  stone 
head  or  foot  on  Uncle  Fred 
for  the  shame  of  it 

and  even  his  boys  thought  it  was  best  he  was  gone 


Decatur  is  surrounded  by  farms  and  oil  fields.  Corn  products 
lave  been  an  industry  there  since  1 907 ;  today  its  agribusines¬ 


ses  are  trusting  to  high  tech,  new  markets  and  new  products 
to  take  them  into  the  21st  century.  In  the  town  today  Cecilia 
Hardneet  directs  a  group  of  readers  and  interpreters  called 
Pomoja,  a  Swahili  term  for  “togetherness.”  The  group  visits 
churches,  civic  centers  and  service  clubs,  performing  the 
works  of  Paul  Laurence  Dunbar,  Gwendolyn  Brooks, 
Langston  Hughes,  Walter  Bradford  and  other  black  writers. 
Another  society  was  drawn  together  by  the  late  Pat  Cunnin¬ 
gham.  These  are  the  Blue  Pike  Poets,  who  have  been  meeting 
regularly  in  the  Decatur  Library  for  about  four  years.  They 
included  Dottie  Fruit,  Michael  Johnson,  Carol  Massat  and 
Dennis  Fehr.  Another  group,  the  Moraine  Poets,  consists 
of  writers  more  or  less  associated  with  Millikin  University. 
Deborah  Bosley  is  a  member  of  this  group  as  are  Ron  Shafer 
and  Richard  Ferry.  They  have  published  their  own  work  and 
the  work  of  other  area  poets  in  the  Moraine  anthologies, 
which  date  back  to  1981. 

The  present  Hardy  Professor  of  Literature  at  Millikin 
University  is  Dan  Guillory.  An  essayist  and  poet,  he  lives 
south  of  Decatur  in  Findlay,  a  three-spit  town  on  the  shore 
of  Lake  Shelbyville,  or  nearly  so.  Guillory  broods  on  the 
landscape  where  he  lives,  and  it  becomes  the  subject  of 
his  art: 

Blue  clouds  shoulder  the  geese 
Northward,  and  the  Spring  before  Spring 
Quivers  like  the  hair  of  a  green  fern  .  .  . 

David  Curry,  a  native  of  Springfield,  founded  the  little 
magazine,  Apple,  in  1967  and  saw  it  through  12  issues.  He 
printed  Archie  Ammons,  Denise  Levertov  and  Wendell 
Berry,  among  others,  and  featured  the  work  of  plains  poets 
Greg  Kusma  and  William  Kloefkorn  in  two  double  issues. 
His  own  work  has  been  published  by  New  Rivers,  Here: 
Poems  1965-1969,  and  Contending  to  Be  the  Dream,  in 
1979.  He  has  recently  finished  a  new  book,  entitled  Certain 
Flowers.  These  lines  are  taken  from  “Afternoon”: 

The  sun  is  deceptive.  Traces  of  cloud 
are  gathering,  and  the  grass  is  hungering 
to  be  wet.  Put  your  shirt  back  on 
and  go  inside.  Return  to  your  book. 

Another  Springfield  native  who  returned  to  the  city 
after  studying  and  working  in  the  East  was  the  late  Osmond 
Guy.  He  taught  graphic  design  at  Sangamon  State  University 
in  the  early  1970s.  Two  books  of  his  work  remain,  published 
when  he  was  teaching  at  the  Rochester  Institute  of  Technol¬ 
ogy  in  the  mid-60s.  These  lines  reflect  his  assessment  of 
the  times: 

the  sun 

is  shiningbright 
some  where 

blackmen  are  laughing 
but 

it’s  a  badscene. 


I 

1 

I 

j 

1 


ll 

11: 


69 


Women  associated  with  SSU  formed  the  Brainchild 
Poetry  Collective  in  1973,  a  gathering  of  poets  living  in 
central  Illinois.  Brainchild  published  four  anthologies  (1974- 
1977).  The  collective  continues  to  be  active  in  Springfield, 
but  during  the  last  several  years  most  of  its  members  have 
been  writing  Fiction.  Sangamon  Poets  was  founded  at  SSU 
at  about  the  same  time.  Its  chapbooks  have  been  edited  by 
Tim  Osburn  and  Pat  Hilton.  Twelve  books  have  been  pub¬ 
lished  to  date,  including  work  by  Rebecca  Winning  and 
Steven  Dolgin.  Sangamon  Poets  in  conjunction  with  another 
Springfield  writing  group,  Scarritt  Associates,  brought  out 
a  single  issue  revival  of  Vachel  Lindsay’s  publication.  The 
Village  Magazine  in  1979,  honoring  Lindsay  on  the  centen¬ 
nial  of  his  birth. 

A  member  of  the  original  Brainchild,  Jane  Morrel, 
author  of  This  Paradox  Shadow,  grew  up  in  frontier  Ok¬ 
lahoma  and  began  to  publish  her  poems  in  the  1940s,  but 
it  was  not  until  the  1970s  that  the  true  outpouring  of  her 
work  occurred.  These  lines  were  based  on  her  experience 
working  as  an  “activity  lady”  in  a  children’s  hospital  ward: 

John,  your  sturdy  legs 

set  Herculean,  arms  passed  out 

through  bars  of  your  space. 

Five  teeth  receptive,  expectant  of  me. 

But  John!  Purple  and  blue 
and  reds  strand  your  face, 
stichery  plaids  your  fat  cheek. 

UFO  cigarette  burns 
dot  your  belly  and  legs 

Ron  Deverman  knows  the  country  where  Salt  Creek 
enters  the  Sangamon.  His  family’s  farm  there  goes  back 
110  years,  and  it  is  this  rural  landscape  that  pervades  his 
book  in  progress.  Letters  from  Illinois.  These  lines  from 
“letter  written  on  the  Lower  Salt  Bridge”  were  written  after 
meditating  on  the  work  of  native  American  poets.  Among 
several  things  that  must  be  done  to  grasp  the  essential  rich¬ 
ness  of  that  heritage,  a  poet  has  to: 

study  the  eye  muscles  of  the  deer  as  she  forages 
the  dead  stumps  until  you  find  only  yourself 
staring  back  from  the  black  water 
tree  shadows  spreading  to  its  center  mark 
the  deer  motionless,  the  sun  refusing  to  die. 

Reg  Saner  won  the  Walt  Whitman  Award  in  1975 
for  Climbing  into  the  Roots.  Since  then  he  has  published 
two  other  books.  So  This  is  the  Map,  and  Essay  on  Air. 
He  is  from  Jacksonville,  and  a  graduate  of  Routt  High 
School,  although  his  professional  career  has  been  spent 
in  Boulder  where  he  teaches  at  the  University  of  Colorado. 
Most  of  his  poems  are  about  his  western  experience,  but 
he  has  poems  of  remembrances  such  as  “Palmyra,  Illinois 
in  Bug-Time”: 


As  the  white 

customized  Merc  tears  ass, 

heading  for  Kip’s  Lounge  near  Table  Grove, 

its  hot  backwash  slaps  my  face 

with  clover  surf,  fresh  cut. 

Several  students  from  around  town  in  Jacksonville  in 
the  1970s,  Terry  Peters,  Nancy  Hamm  and  Michael  Miner, 
teamed  up  with  John  Carpenter  from  Chandlerville  to  estab¬ 
lish  Two-Way  Mirrors,  which  held  a  series  of  readings  by 
area  writers  at  the  David  Strawn  Art  Gallery  and  later  at 
Crows  Mill  Tavern  in  Springfield.  Among  the  poets  featured 
in  these  readings  was  Lynette  Seator.  An  authority  on  Latin 
American  culture  and  literature,  she  teaches  at  Illinois  Col¬ 
lege.  One  of  her  recent  works  is  entitled  “Poem  for  a  daughter 
who  tried  to  save  Honduras”: 

still  you  were  marked 
for  arrest.  The  generals  know 
to  work  with  the  poor 
is  a  political  act. 

Victor  Pearn,  another  Jacksonville  native,  has  had  a 
steady  publication  in  small  magazines  during  the  last  10 
years.  His  work  can  be  eerie,  evocative,  delicate  as  in  “where 
the  river  flows”:  “and  they  know  meadows/and  children 
who  dance  in  a  circle/singing  ashes  ashes.” 

The  town  of  Lincoln  was  named  for  the  young 
Springfield  lawyer  whose  services  helped  to  make  it  the 
county  seat  of  Logan  County.  Langston  Hughes  went  to 
junior  high  school  there.  The  Billee  Murray  Denny  Poetry 
Award  has  been  administered  by  Lincoln  College  since 
1981 ,  with  substantial  prizes  for  winning  entries.  An  annual 
anthology.  The  Denny  Poems,  publishes  the  work  of  the 
winner  and  honorable  mentions.  ValeciaCrisafulli,  poet  and 
teacher  at  the  college,  coordinates  the  contest.  She  is  a  poet 
of  wit  and  risk.  This  poem  is  entitled  “Brass  Bed”: 

See  here,  when  they  first  hung  the  brass  headboard 
cocked  at  a  funny  angle  on  the  wall  near  the  top 
of  the  stairs,  they  never  knew  what  a  ruckus  it 

would  cause. 

beds  being  for  sleeping  in  and  making  up. 
walls  for  pictures  of  bams,  sunsets,  relatives,  and 
crocheted  ditties  about  Jesus. 

Quincy  has  one  of  the  most  active  arts  councils  in  the 
state.  It  is  an  old  river  town  with  substantial  brick  houses. 
James  Haining,  the  publisher  of  Lucky  Heart  Books  resided 
there,  bringing  out  the  last  wonderful  issue  of  his  magazine. 
Salt  Lick,  in  1982,  after  which  he  returned  to  Texas.  In 
1981  he  published  A  Quincy  History,  entries  from  a  diary 
he  kept  from  January  1972  through  May  1979.  There  are 
many  poems  scattered  throughout  the  history  and  these  can 
be  seen  as  minimalist  work  as  Haining  pays  homage  to 
Charles  Olson  and  Robert  Creeley.  The  book  is  an  account 


70 


the  busy  life  of  a  small  press  publisher.  At  the  time, 
ining  was  working  on  Next  Services,  a  book  of  poems 
his  wife,  Michalea  Moore.  Taken  together  the  books 
ow  rare  verbal  addresses.  This  is  Moore  in  Like  No- 
dy’s  Business”: 

that  pride 
made  me  say 
nothing  to  nobody 
until  i  knew  i 
had  to  get  down 
and  love  you  like 
nobody’s  business 

id  this  is  Haining  in  “Service”: 

my  hands  are  your  cup 
of  flowers  and  I  put 
the  sweet  potatoes  in 
the  jars  for  you 

Forrest  Robinson  founded  the  Mississippi  Valley  Re- 
ew  with  Steve  Teitz  in  1971.  This  Macomb  magazine 
lurishes  and  can  be  found  in  the  Bodleian  Library  at  Ox- 
rd.  Published  by  the  college  of  Arts  and  Sciences  at  West- 
Ti  Illinois  University,  it  had  Roland  Grass,  the  concrete 
let,  as  consultant.  At  present,  John  Mann  serves  as  poetry 
litor  and  Fred  Jones  as  art  editor.  MVR  is  a  magazine  of 
sual  as  well  as  verbal  art,  a  dedication  that  is  evident  in 
5  fine  covers. 

John  Mann’s  poem,  “The  Suffering  and  Death  of  Steve 
iko,”  was  chosen  for  a  broadside  printing  by  Illinois  Writ¬ 
's,  Inc.  These  are  the  concluding  lines: 

Like  the  veldt’s  sun 

you  rose  to  your  fatal  history: 

you  must  be  black  in  South  Africa. 

fed  Jones  is  Welsh  and  a  printmaker.  Recently  he  joined 
/ith  14  other  Welsh- American  artists  to  articulate  prints  for 
4  contemporary  Welsh  poets,  with  the  Welsh  calligrapher 
onah  Jones  lining  out  the  poems.  This  “Welsh  American 
'ortfolio”  has  been  on  exhibit  throughout  this  country  and 
n  the  United  Kingdom.  Forrest  Robinson’s  poems  have 
leen  gathered  in  The  Champaign  Letters  &  Other  Poems. 
Je  can  catch  the  eerie  moment  that  separates  an  old  identity 
fom  a  new  one: 

The  phone  rings. 

My  apartment  and  I  are  alone. 

The  second  ring.  My  old  life,  maybe. 

An  old  debt,  the  angry  words  of  a  collector. 

Third  ring.  I  owe  no  bills. 

I  owe  myself  a  hundred  debts. 

Fourth  ring.  1  listen  to  her  voice. 

Peoria  citizens  have  to  endure  that  misapplied  quotation 
"It  won’t  play  in  Peoria” — which  really  means  that  shabby 


work  isn’t  appreciated  in  this  Illinois  river  town.  So  it  is 
right  that  David  Pichaske  should  be  owner  and  publisher  of 
The  Spoon  River  Poetry  Press  there.  A  writer  himself  {The 
Jubilee  Diary),  Pichaske  works  with  enthusiasm,  expertise 
and  a  slim  budget  to  deliver  a  quality  product.  The  press 
has  published  books  by  Michael  Anania,  Ralph  Mills,  Joan 
Colby,  Dave  Etter,  Jane  Morrel,  and  “H”,  among  others. 

A  current  project  indicating  Spoon  River  s  expanding  scope 
and  capability,  is  the  publication  of  Lindsay  s  complete 
poetry  and  prose  in  beautifully  illustrated  hardbacked  vol¬ 
umes.  Two  volumes  have  been  issued  as  of  June  1985.  The 
editor  is  Lindsay  scholar  and  Sangamon  State  University 
professor  Dennis  Camp. 

At  least  three  other  poets  should  be  mentioned  in  con¬ 
junction  with  Peoria.  George  Chambers  is  better  known  as 
a  fiction  writer,  but  there  is  a  good  selection  of  his  poetry 
in  Voyages  to  the  Inland  Sea,  IV.  Tori  Egherman  is  also 
from  Peoria.  She  had  a  share  in  Sestina:  Six  Women  Poets. 
These  lines  are  from  one  of  her  prose  poems,  “Sisters”: 

I  thought  that  nightmares  were  horses  that  you 

dreamt  about. 

Sometimes  in  the  middle  of  the  night  I  would 

open  my  eyes  and 

see  your  dreams  above  your  head.  You  dreamt 

in  shades  of  yellow. 

James  Ballowe,  the  son  and  grandson  of  miners,  was 
born  in  Carbondale  and  grew  up  in  Herrin.  Currently  an 
administrator  at  Bradley  University,  he  worked  on  the 
staff  of  Kerker  Quinn’s  Accent  in  the  late  ’50s.  These 
lines  are  from  his  book.  The  Coal  Miners,  a  1979  Spoon 
River  publication: 

Drugged  by  the  dark 
you  imagined  light 
shining  from  Christ 
and  crucifixions 
indistinguishable 
in  the  dust  that  turned 
you  into  dust. 

McLean  County  poet  and  historian  Greg  Koos  has 
studied  much  of  the  19th  century  verse  that  citizens  of 
Bloomington-Normal  wrote  and  read.  Early  on  most  of  it 
was  newspaper  copy.  Infants  dying  was  a  very  popular  sub¬ 
ject.  Maudlin  poems,  the  kind  of  elegy  that  Twain  satirized 
in  Huckleberry  Finn,  graced  the  pages  of  the  local  gazettes. 
There  were  some  humorous  pieces.  The  serious  poems  dealt 
with  politics  and  were  often  on  the  subject  of  women’s 
rights.  By  the  1890s,  because  of  the  founding  of  local  print¬ 
ing  houses,  small,  handsome  bound  volumes,  quite  well-il¬ 
lustrated,  were  issued.  These  contained  rural  and  pastoral 
poetry  for  the  most  part  of  fond  remembrances.  The  Poems 
of  John  Frances  Myers  is  of  some  interest.  He  may  have 
been  a  fiddler  and  seems  to  have  written  with  specific 
melodies  in  mind.  “The  Wireless  Piano,  at  least,  was  to 
be  sung  to  “Marching  Through  Georgia.”  The  Black  Book- 


l 


I 


10- 


71 


men  of  Illinois  Wesleyan  University  were  publishing  the 
magazine  by  that  name  in  the  I92()s,  quite  serviceable  ver¬ 
ses.  Harriet  Monroe  and  Lew  Seratt,  a  University  of  Illinois 
professor  and  poet  who  used  Chippewa  and  Plains  Indian 
materials,  are  listed  as  advisors  to  the  magazine. 

Paul  Scott  Mowrcr  went  from  Bloomington  as  a  young 
boy  and  later  distinguished  himself  as  a  foreign  correspon¬ 
dent  for  the  Chicago  Daily  News.  He  was  in  France  in  1918 
where  he  wrote  “Another  Burial”  from  which  these  lines 
are  taken: 

The  men  at  work  in  the  ditch  put  by  their  shovels, 

Shake  off  their  mud,  and  all  in  the  silent  rain. 

Bury  the  twisted  shapes,  and  drive  a  stake  in. 

Should  any  one  wish  to  come  to  the  place  again. 

William  Wantling  came  to  Normal  in  1966.  He  had 
grown  up  in  Peoria,  had  joined  the  marines  and  been 
wounded  in  Korea.  The  morphine  prescribed  led  to  addiction 
and  the  habit  led  to  an  armed  robbery  in  California  and  a 
sentence  to  San  Quentin.  He  began  writing  poems  there. 
His  arrival  in  Normal  triggered  an  exciting  scene,  with  read¬ 
ings  sponsored  by  an  Illinois  State  University  student  organi¬ 
zation  called  the  Druid’s  Cave  and  readings  at  Illinois 
Wesleyan’s  Phoenix  Coffee  House,  as  well  as  open  house 
for  readers  at  Wantling’s  home.  It  was  the  spirit  of  the 
times:  “Let’s  get  together  and  drink  wine  and  read  poems.” 
He  published  10  small  books  of  poetry,  stunning  verbal 
riffs  combining  street  smarts  and  literary  sophistication. 
In  the  lines  that  follow,  which  conclude  a  found  poem  on 
the  death  of  a  cat,  he  shifts  into  his  own  statement  on  he 
nature  of  poetry: 

this,  indeed,  is  poetry,  not  because  it  speaks 
of  random,  terror,  abandon,  of 
Quick  too  quickly  cut,  but 
because  it  speaks  of  it  with  Style 
because  of  concrete,  sensory  detail,  stark 
outline  of  emotionally  charged  events 
extreme  economy  and,  woven  through  it  all 
a  strand  of  universal  raging  wonder  at 
the  savage  god  called  Death.  .  . 

Wantling  died  in  1974  and  is  buried  in  Oak  Grove  cemetery 
in  LeRoy.  He  is  said  to  have  cult  followings  in  Wales  and 
New  Zealand. 

In  1977,  writers  from  the  Central  Illinois  Branch  of 
the  National  League  of  American  Pen  Women  staged  a 
one-day  workshop  on  the  campus  of  Illinois  Wesleyan  Uni¬ 
versity.  Bettie  Story  and  others  worked  from  this  beginning 
to  establish  the  yearly  writer’s  conference  at  IWU,  which 
meets  usually  in  late  July  and  early  August. 

James  McGowan  is  associated  with  the  conference  in 
one  capacity  or  another  in  any  given  summer.  He  joined 
the  faculty  of  IWU  in  1969,  coming  from  Rutgers  where 
he  had  lived  in  the  same  student  housing  with  Hale  Chatfield 
and  Henry  Dumas.  His  work  is  meticulous;  each  word  is 
selected  and  necessary,  the  lines  etched.  He  has  fine  angler’s 


advice  in  “To  My  Son — Old  Enough  for  Bass,”  which  leads 
to  unexpected  climax: 

Bass  are  bom  with  your  father’s  stem  eye; 

It  is  right  they  be  nailed  to  your  wall. 

His  most  recent  book  is  a  volume  of  translations  from 
Baudelaire  published  by  Spoon  River  in  1985.  In  1979,  he 
joined  with  Koos  to  begin  the  annual  “Words  Fair”,  a  gather¬ 
ing  beneath  the  open  sky  in  Bloomington’s  Franklin  Park 
where  writers  from  around  the  state  come  to  read  on  a 
Sunday  afternoon. 

James  Scrimgeour  worked  with  the  Druid’s  Cave  writ¬ 
ers  to  keep  things  going  at  Illinois  State  in  the  late  ’70s. 
He  founded  the  Pikestaff  Press  with  Robert  D.  Sutherland 
in  1977.  The  press  publishes  Pikestaff  Forum,  which  is 
devoted  to  fiction,  poetry  and  drama.  Scrimgeour’s  own 
work  is  available  in  the  volume  called  Dikel,  Your  Hands. 
This  collection  includes  two  poems  for  Bill  Wantling. 

Fred  Brian,  the  artist/printer  of  the  Pilot  Rock  Press, 
has  produced  chapbooks  and  broadsides  for  several  of  the 
local  poets.  He  handset  the  first  printing  of  James  McGo¬ 
wan’s  Each  Other — Where  We  Are  and  illustrated  it  with 
wood  engravings.  Joanne  Riley,  on  the  staff  of  the  Com 
Belt  Library  System,  headquartered  in  Normal,  is  author  of 
two  books  of  poems:  Earth  Tones  in  1979  and  more  recently 
Pacing  the  Moon,  which  she  describes  as  “a  matrilineal 
book.”  Veronika  in  “Birth-Mark”  is: 

An  immigrant  girl  with  waist-length  dreams 
Indentured  to  the  daylight. 

Other  writers  in  the  area  include  Geraldine  Pratt,  Linnea 
Johnson  and  Lucia  Getsi.  Getsi  teaches  comparative  litera¬ 
ture  and  creative  writing  at  Illinois  State  University.  Her 
translations  of  poems  by  George  Trakl  were  published  by 
Mundus  Artium/Ohio  University  Press  in  1973.  Her  own 
book  of  poems,  a  powerful  and  suspenseful  sequence  called 
“The  Tooth  Mother  Letters”  was  published  in  1984  by 
Moonsquilt  Press.  In  a  recent  poem,  the  Midwest  is  where 
strangers  search: 

some  mid-point 
to  make  the  repetitions  cease, 
they  wonder  how  artists  here  can  find 
a  frame. 


4.  NORTH 

Patricia  Lieb  of  Bourbonnais.  who  is  president  of  the 
Illinois  State  Poetry  Society,  and  Carol  Schott  of  Pontiac 
founded  Lieb-Schott  Publications  in  1978.  In  addition  to 
overseeing  some  commercial  printing,  they  have  brought 
out  1 0  chapbooks  and  four  issues  of  Pteranadon:  A  Magazine 
for  Poets  and  Writers.  Press  business  is  conducted  at  a 
restaurant  in  Dwight,  halfway  between  Bourbonnais  and 
Pontiac,  at  eight  in  the  morning  as  the  need  arises.  One  of 


72 


he  chapbooks  is  a  joint  venture  by  Schott  and  Lieb  called 
Mtholics  and  Publics,  poems  about  childhood  experiences 
n  grade  school.  It  has  a  forward  by  Jared  Carter,  who  notes 
hat  those  who  have  gotten  through  second  and  third  grades 
n  this  country  will  find  it  all  too  familiar  when  they  come 
Q  read  Dante. 

Knox  College  in  Galesburg  has  had  among  its  students 
lugene  Field  and  Edgar  Lee  Masters.  Field  became  some- 
hing  of  a  legend  for  his  pranks;  Masters  cherished  the  mem- 
iry  of  the  school  and  his  study  of  Greek  writers  there, 
/achel  Lindsay  gave  his  first  college  reading  at  Knox. 
Jandburg,  though  he  was  never  a  student  at  the  college — he 
vent  to  Lombard,  the  town's  other  college  at  that  time — 
:ame  to  celebrate  the  Knox  College  Centennial  in  1937  with 
in  “Ode"  to  Old  Main.  He  had  fond  memories  of  that  build- 
ng.  He  had  witnessed  in  1896  the  first  commemoration  of 
he  Lincoln-Douglas  debate  held  there  in  1857.  Ernest  San- 
leen  is  also  an  alumnus  of  Knox  and  celebrated  for  his 
iccomplishments  as  a  poet,  teacher  and  scholar  at  Notre 
Dame  University. 

The  Knox  faculty  today  includes  the  poet  Robin  Behn 
IS  well  as  several  fiction  writers.  Behn  is  working  on  a 
;ourse  in  poetry  translation  at  the  present  time.  Poet  and 
;ritic  Sam  Moon  retired  in  1985  after  a  long  and  fruitful 
career.  His  presence  on  the  faculty  and  the  presence  ot  other 
gifted  writers,  teachers  and  artists  helps  to  account  for  the 
excellent  student  magazine  of  art  and  literature.  Catch.  The 
Spring  1983  issue  was  awarded  first  place  in  the  CCLM 
National  Collegiate  Competition.  Moon,  a  student  of  classi- 
:al  Chinese,  is  spending  his  retirement  rendering  Confucian 
ades  into  English.  Several  of  his  translations  were  printed 
in  Farmer’ s  Market  with  facing  pages  of  calligraphy  by 
Terrence  Mak.  There  is  a  selection  of  Moon’s  own  work  in 
the  “Galesburg  Edition”  of  Farmer's  Market.  These  are 
lines  from  “Early  Winter”: 

Fall  rains  have  bleached  out  the  land. 

Frozen  trees  feather  the  sky  on  the  ridges. 

The  grass  leans  south  and  east  for  winter 

like  weeds  in  the  river.  .  . 

The  Farmer’s  Market  itself  is  a  little  magazine  of 
poetry,  art  and  fiction.  Editor  Jean  Lee  sees  it  as  a  publication 
with  a  midwestern  sensibility.  Lee  also  edits  Prairie  Journal, 
a  quarterly  magazine  which  specializes  in  the  history  and 
culture  of  western  Illinois  and  eastern  Iowa.  The  Spring 
1985  issue  has  articles  on  Lindsay,  Masters,  Sandburg,  and 
certain  pioneer  poets,  as  well  as  on  Lewistown  and  on  small 
press  publishing  in  the  state. 

Lee,  Behn  and  Moon  are  busy  local  writers,  and  three 
of  Moon’s  students,  all  with  books  published  now,  should 
also  be  mentioned;  Alexander  Kuo,  David  Lunde  and  Steve 
Miller.  Ron  Hunt,  who  operates  the  Book  Nook  in  Gales¬ 
burg,  is  from  the  Henderson  Creek  valley  near  Alexis.  He 
was  one  of  several  bright  students  and  poets  at  Monmouth 
College  when  Murray  Moulding  taught  there  in  the  early 
1970s. 

In  the  Quad  Cities,  Bettendorf  and  Davenport  in  Iowa, 


Rock  Island  and  Moline  in  Illinois,  there  are  at  least  six 
active  writers  clubs.  Information  on  the  activities  of  these 
groups  can  be  found  in  the  Writer’s  Newsletter,  now  in  its 
fourteenth  year.  Published  every  month  from  Rock  Island 
by  Betty  Mowry  and  David  Collins,  the  newsletter  prints 
information  on  the  various  poetry  competitions,  such  as  the 
Quad  City  Times  Grand  Prizes  and  the  Keeshian  Poetry 
Contest,  as  well  as  poems  by  local  writers  and  by  the  winners 
of  the  Keeshian  Contest,  now  in  its  fifth  year.  Collins  is 
also  director  of  the  Mississippi  Valley  Writers  Conference, 
which  meets  at  Augustana  College  for  a  week  each  summer. 

Within  the  last  several  years  there  have  been  poetry 
readings  “Upstairs  at  the  Ballaster”  in  Davenport  with  Iowa 
and  Illinois  poets,  artists  and  musicians  participating.  Kath¬ 
leen  Cox,  who  coordinated  these  readings,  has  been  poet 
in  residence  with  help  from  CETA  for  the  Quad  City  Arts 
Council.  Her  book  of  poems.  Coming  Alive,  was  published 
in  1 980.  Michael  Allen  Moore  is  also  a  poet  active  in  Moline . 

Augustana  College  has  been  hospitable  to  poets  over 
the  years,  setting  up  readings  and  residencies.  The  college 
has  a  commitment  to  Native  American  studies,  honoring 
the  Black  Hawk  and  Sauk  and  Fox  history  of  Rock  Island. 
Because  of  this,  more  American  Indian  authors  have  read 
in  the  Quad  Cities  than  anywhere  else  in  the  state.  Ray 
Young  Bear  from  Tama,  Iowa,  who  would  be  perhaps  a 
fifth  generation  grandson  of  the  Mesquackie  who  lived  in 
the  Rock  River  Valley,  is  one  of  these.  A  writer  whose 
work  is  known  worldwide.  Young  Bear’s  early  poems  ap¬ 
peared  in  the  newsletter  published  by  the  Upward  Bound 
Project  at  Luther  College  in  Decorah,  Iowa  in  the  1960s. 

Michael  Sheridan  teaches  at  Geneseo  High  School, 
about  50  miles  east  of  the  Quad  Cities.  He  has  taught  for 
the  Job  Corps  near  San  Francisco  and  on  the  Pacific  Island 
of  Truk.  He  published  widely  and  has  work  in  Heartland 
IF  These  lines  are  taken  from  “Grace”: 

Yesterday  on  the  prairie 

I  saw  a  closed  wound  called  Bishop  Hill: 

there,  in  the  1850s,  nutty  Jansenists 

sold  celibacy  to  marrieds 

and,  for  color,  heaped  wild  flowers 

on  the  bed  of  their  murdered  leader, 

expecting  him  to  rise 

like  Christ  on  the  third  day.  .  .  . 

Ricardo  Amezquita  from  Sterling  and  Anthony  Kallas 
from  Dixon,  both  towns  on  the  Rock  River,  are  graduates 
of  Sauk  Valley  College.  Amezquita  is  a  painfully  slow  writ¬ 
er,  but  then  he  can  say;  “We  migrants  hold  the  day/between 
our  toes.”  A  prolific  writer  with  many  publications,  Kallas 
says  of  the  Rock  River  dam:  “The  leashed  power  captures 
the/madness  of  a  hundred  rabid  dogs.” 

From  Dixon  east  to  DeKalb  on  the  northern  prairie,  it 
is  like  traveling  across  the  top  of  the  world.  DeKalb  is  home 
to  Northern  Illinois  University.  Lucien  Stryk  teaches  there — 
poetry,  creative  writing,  Asian  literature.  Since  1953  when 
he  published  his  first  book  of  poems,  he  has  edited  or  trans- 


4  f 


Sc 

00-0 

ooS 
>  m 


CO; 


73 


lated  10  volumes  from  Buddhist  literature,  Zen  writings  and 
Basho’s  haiku.  Swallow/University  Press  brought  out  his 
Selected  Foetus  in  1976  and  a  Collected  in  1984.  He  edited 
Heartland:  Poets  of  the  Midwest  in  1967,  a  key  book  that 
gathered  the  work  of  29  poets.  This  volume  established  that 
there  was  an  important  body  of  work  being  produced  in  the 
region.  “Hyde  Park  Sunday”  reflects  the  sensibility  of  a 
man  who  has  given  a  lifetime  to  the  study  of  oriental  culture: 

Suddenly  the  bronzed  Spaniard, 
yellow  bandanna  on  his  forehead, 
left  his  companions  with  a  leap — 
perfect  somersault — then  cartwheeled 
past  the  lovers  on  the  grass. 

The  sprawlers  gaped,  on  Speakers’  Comer 
there  was  silence,  those  angry  men 
turned  blessed,  forgiving — 
so  much  pure  energy  expended  for  nothing, 
for  absolutely  nothing. 

Other  area  poets  are  Rachael  Burchard,  Joseph  Gas- 
tiger,  with  NIU,  Gail  White  from  nearby  Sycamore,  and 
Dan  Stryk,  Lucien’s  son  and  colleague  at  the  university 
whose  second  book  came  out  in  1984.  These  are  lines  from 
“Crows”.  It  is  winter  and  20  below: 

They  are  the  sculpture 
for  our  season,  of 
our  lives,  claws  fastened 
to  the  coarse  grey  bark, 
black  forms  on  the  grey  sky 
unmoved,  alive. 

Dave  Etter  lives  in  Elbum,  about  30  miles  east  of 
DeKalb.  The  town  was  an  abolitionist  stronghold  prior  to 
the  Civil  War.  The  Lincoln  True  Hearts  were  there  in  1858, 
as  Lincoln  discovered  when  he  went  to  visit  his  cousin  in 
the  town  that  year.  Etter  likes  off-the-highway  places  where 
artifacts  are  still  to  be  seen  from  the  ‘30s,  emblems  of  the 
past  and  of  an  enduring  if  stricken  present.  His  poems  are  soaked 
with  bright  colors,  as  one  of  this  favorite  painters,  Chagall, 
uses  them.  He  listens  for  the  offhand  casual  sound  of  idioma¬ 
tic  speech  and  takes  great  pains  to  reproduce  this  in  his 
poems.  He  feels  at  home  with  back  road  people,  old  populists 
so  much  like  poets,  as  he  might  say,  when  you  think  of  it, 
and  for  them  has  created  a  mythical  town  west  of  Chicago 
named  Alliance.  There  is  something  of  all  this  in  “An  Amer¬ 
ican  Holiday”: 

The  sun  breaks  through  a  wet  cloud, 
sweet  as  a  cinnamon  bun, 
and  my  village  of  flags  opens  up 
like  a  tropical  bird. 

See  kitchen  chairs  beneath  the  trees 
and  oranges  eaten  in  hammocks. 

See  the  buzzing  grapes,  the  hedges  of  boys. 


Among  his  many  publications  are:  Go  Read  the  River;  The  i 
Lxist  Train  to  Prophetstown;  West  of  Chicago;  Alliance,  i 
Illinois:  Poems;  and  the  latest.  Home  State,  a  book  of  prose 
poems. 

Robert  Schuler  was  teaching  at  Shimer  College  in  Mt. 
Carroll  from  1967  to  1978.  Two  students  there,  Terry  Nathan 
and  John  Mausieda,  founded  Uzzano  in  1974  and  brought 
out  the  magazine’s  first  two  issues.  When  they  graduated, 
they  presented  the  magazine— named  for  one  of  the  against- 
the-grain  heroes  in  Pound’s  Cantos — to  Schuler,  telling  him 
they  believed  that  he  had  always  wanted  one.  Schuler  pub¬ 
lished  Uzzano  until  1982,  beginning  with  a  memorial  issue 
of  Franklin  Brainard’s  poems.  He  established  Uzzano  Press, 
also,  bringing  out  books  by  Etter,  Thomas  McGrath, 
Raymond  Roseliep,  and  Ray  Smith.  There  were  good  times  > 
at  Shimer  during  the  college’s  latter  days:  Robert  Bly,  Will¬ 
iam  Stafford,  Galway  Kinnell,  Louise  Gluck,  Marvin  Bell 
read  there,  often  to  audiences  of  200  from  this  school  of 
250  students. 

The  Rockford  Writer’s  Guild  was  founded  in  the  1940s 
and  has  Eunice  Fisher  as  president  today.  The  guild  encour¬ 
ages  local  programs  in  the  arts.  Stryk  and  Etter,  among 
others,  have  given  workshops  to  members.  Fisher  edits  The 
Rockford  Review,  a  handsome  magazine  that  prints  the  work 
of  guild  members  for  the  most  part.  Also,  and  closely  allied, 
Womanspace  is  a  center  in  Rockford  for  “the  support  and 
aid  in  the  self-development  of  women  in  society.”  This 
group  is  chaired  by  Wanie  Reeverts.  The  center  publishes 
Korone,  which  contains  poems  and  short  Fiction  by  the  mem¬ 
bers.  Christine  Swanberg  is  one  of  the  more  active  poets  in 
the  area.  Her  book.  Tonight,  On  This  Same  Road,  was 
published  by  the  Erie  Street  Press  in  1984. 

East  of  Rockford  in  Belvidere,  Todd  Moore  publishes  ■ 
roadihouse,  bringing  out  work  of  promising  writers  in  slen¬ 
der  editions.  His  own  work  is  tight,  crusty,  concrete.  He 
favors  poems  that  cluster  into  narrative  and  have  definite  his¬ 
torical  underpinnings.  A  sample  of  his  style,  from  The 
Devil’s  Backbone,  has  the  title  leading  into  the  body  of  the 
poem: 


the  old  kaskaskia  road 

chopped  its  way 
south 

thru  forest 
and  prairie  stretches 
angling  like 
a  diamond  marked 
snake  on  make.  .  .  . 

Certain  writers  in  the  small  towns  and  vast  suburbs 
around  Chicago  might  be  classified  as  independents.  Joan 
Colby  is  one  of  these.  A  native  of  Chicago,  she  lives  in 
Streamwood  and  works  as  editor  of  the  Illinois  Racing  News. 
Her  latest  book.  How  the  Sky  Begins  to  Fall,  was  published 
in  1982.  Two  more.  The  Boundary  Waters,  and  The  Atrocity 


74 


ok,  were  published  in  1984.  Her  work  is  stark  and  uncom- 
jmising;  the  art  subtle: 

The  red  bird  of  pain 

nests  in  my  belly.  The  child’s  breathing 

fails.  Catalpa  blooms 

litter  the  wet  pavement.  My  mother  says 

clear  these  rooms,  let  everything 

be  bare  and  necessary. 

Phyllis  Janik  lives  in  nearby  Hinsdale.  She  grew  up  on 
st  and  the  Lake,  Chicago’s  South  Shore  neighborhood, 
a  family  of  steelworkers.  She  has  authored  four  volumes 
poetry.  There  is  a  rich,  sensuous  quality  to  Janik’s  work, 
d  a  brooding  mind  in  back  of  it.  “Piece  VIIP’  is  a  commen- 
y  on  a  work  of  abstract  art,  which  becomes  in  the  last 
nza  a  thing  of  strange  light; 

Like  the  breast  of  the  Bam  Swallow 
turning  shining  blue  for  a  second,  flying  over 
the  pool 

this  is  Piece  VIII;  the  light 

almost  rounding  out  a  rough-cut  chop  off  the  bar. 

The  reflection  from  an  obsolete  Spanish  coin. 

She  guest-edited  the  Winter  1981  issue  of  The  Spoon 
ver  Quarterly  with  help  from  Larry  Lieberman,  Sterling 
impp  and  Michael  Anania,  among  others.  This  issue  has 
;  work  of  some  70  poets,  not  professionals,  from  all  over 
;  state,  old  and  young,  with  ages  given  in  the  back  of  the 
ue.  It  is  a  showcase  for  excellent  writing  and  teaching 
1  example  drawn  at  random  is  “Run  Down  Lady”  by 
ndy  Mommaerts,  age  14  at  the  time: 

She  sits  with 
tears  in 
her  eyes 
the  bill  in 
her  hand 
the  kids 
in  her  hair 
her  body 

smelly  and  its  only  9:00  in  the 
momin’ 

Lisel  Mueller  of  Lake  Forest  received  the  American 
>ok  Award  in  1981  for  The  Need  to  Hold  Still,  the  Lamont 
ize  for  The  Private  Life  in  1976.  Her  early  work  was 
lected  for  the  Stibitz  anthology,  Illinois  Poets  in  1968. 
irough  all  the  years  and  many  poems  her  calm,  steady 
ice  moves  with  awe  and  surprises.  Although  she  never 
•ns  away  from  the  fierce  implications  of  the  times,  she 
n  say  in  “Snow”: 

Come  here,  then.  Every  ditch 

has  been  exalted.  We  are  covered  with  stars. 

Feel  how  light  they  are,  our  lives. 


G.E.  Murray  lives  in  Oak  Park.  He  has  followed  the 
Chicago  literary  scene  since  the  early  1970s  and  has  com¬ 
mented  on  it  with  thoughtful  articles  and  reviews  in  the 
Chicago  Daily  News,  the  Tribune,  the  Sun-Times,  and 
Chicago.  His  own  work.  Repairs,  was  a  Devins  Award  book 
from  the  University  of  Missouri  Press  in  1979.  These  lines 
are  from  “Chicago  as  the  Time  of  Night”: 

on  central  time 

dying  is  an  irrelevant  surprise. 

The  infinite  gray  and  meager  shock  of  wedding 

the  midlands  hits  colder  than  a  left  hook. 


5.  CHICAGO 

And  this  is  Chicago,  the  Sears  Tower  brooding  above 
the  city  like  some  storm  spirit,  and  a  new  State  of  Illinois 
Building,  all  in  glass  and  space  and  plastic  and  steel,  a 
Castle  Perilous  for  people  coming  there  with  business  to 
attend  to.  Early  poets,  such  as  Horatio  Cooke  and  William 
Asbury  Kenyon,  exploited  the  pastoral  or  struck  out  against 
the  injustices  of  the  day,  but  they  did  not  focus  on  Chicago 
itself  as  a  subject  worthy  of  extended  attention.  That  came 
with  Benjamin  Franklin  Taylor,  who  spoke  as  an  Aaron 
discovering  to  the  world  a  swamp: 

Where  in  the  wild-rice  cradle  lay. 

As  tender  as  water  cress. 

The  Moses  of  the  Wilderness! 

Whatever  his  talent  or  influence,  Taylor  published  from 
1854  until  1886  when  his  collected  poems  were  brought 
out.  By  that  time  Eugene  Field  was  writing  for  the  Daily 
News,  political  satire  and,  in  the  case  of  “Little  Boy  Blue,” 
an  effective,  sentimental  verse  for  children.  In  1890,  the 
University  of  Chicago  was  founded  and  served  as  wellspring 
for  the  city’s  poets.  William  Vaughn  Moody  taught  there 
from  1895  until  1907. 

Harriet  Monroe  was  11  in  1871  when  the  city  was 
destroyed  by  the  great  fire.  She  died  in  Arequipa,  Peru,  in 
1936.  She  had  been  attending  a  P.E.N.  convention  and 
seeking  out  Inca  ruins  in  the  mountains.  Between  those 
years  she  developed  as  a  poet  in  the  genteel,  heroic  tradition, 
composing  the  “Ode”  for  the  Columbian  Exposition  in  1 892. 
But  she  gave  that  stance  over  as  she  grew  into  the  20th 
century.  Monroe  was  in  her  fifties  when  she  founded  Poetry: 
A  Magazine  of  Verse  in  1911.  A  superb  editor,  she  sought 
out  the  best  poets  here  and  abroad  and  published  their  works. 
She  printed  Lindsay’s  “General  William  Booth  Enters  into 
Heaven”  in  January  1913,  Sandburg’s  “Chicago  poems”  in 
March  1914. 

Poetry  achieved  an  international  reputation  in  those 
years  and  because  local  writers  contributed  to  its  pages  and 
served  on  its  editorial  staff,  it  helped  to  form  what  has  come 
to  be  known  as  the  “Chicago  School”  of  American  poetry. 
Many  talents  can  be  loosely  gathered  in  that  poetic  gym- 


I 

i 

1 


I 

I 


ii 

ii' 

1  ii'i 


75 


nasium:  Masters,  Lindsay,  Sandburg,  of  course,  and  Max¬ 
well  Bodenheim,  Eunice  Tietjens,  Marion  Strobel,  Jessica 
Nelson  North  and  Marjorie  Seiffert,  among  others.  The 
poetry  of  Tietjens  has  verve  and  power.  In  “The  Drug  Clerk” 
a  young  man  stands  behind  the  counter,  while: 

Before  him  burn  the  great  unwinking  lights. 

The  hectic  stars  of  city  nights. 

Red  as  hell’s  pit,  green  as  a  mermaid’s  hair. 

A  group  of  writers  connected  with  the  University  ot 
Chicago  was  active  at  this  time  also.  These  were  members 
of  the  Poetry  Club,  founded  in  1917  by  Harold  Van  Kirk. 
The  president  of  this  club  in  1927  was  George  Dillon  whose 
second  volume  of  poetry,  The  Flowering  Stone,  won  the 
Pulitzer  Prize  in  1932.  He  was  editor  Poetry  from  1946 
to  1949. 

Elder  Olson  is  distinguished  service  professor  emeritus 
of  English  Language  and  Literature  at  the  University  of 
Chicago.  He  was  bom  in  Chicago  in  1909  and  published 
his  first  poems  in  Poetry  in  1928.  A  critic  and  dramatist, 
he  has  published  a  study  of  the  work  of  Dylan  Thomas  and 
volumes  on  the  nature  of  tragedy  and  comedy.  His  Collected 
Poems  appeared  in  1963  and  Last  Poems  in  1984.  What 
can  a  man  say  for  himself  with  a  long  and  busy  life  to  his 
credit?  He  can  present  a  one-line  answer  “Himself  in  Age”: 

The  dry  branch  bums  more  fiercely  than  the 

green. 

John  Frederick  Nims  was  an  associate  editor  of  Poetry' 
in  the  1940s,  visiting  editor  from  1960-1961  and  editor  from 
1978  until  this  last  year.  A  graduate  of  DePaul  University 
and  the  University  of  Chicago,  he  began  teaching  at  Notre 
Dame  in  1939.  He  later  joined  the  faculty  of  the  University 
of  Illinois  at  the  invitation  of  Kerker  Quinn,  the  first  faculty 
member  brought  there  because  he  was  a  poet.  Nims  has 
published  four  volumes  of  poetry  and  a  Selected  Poems, 
which  came  out  in  1982.  He  is  a  translator  of  reputation, 
with  renderings  of  St.  John  of  the  Cross  and  Euripides.  In 
an  essay  entitled  “On  Growth  and  Form,”  which  serves  as 
the  preface  to  Selected  Poems.  Nims  sketches  his  shifts  and 
changes  as  a  poet  and  makes  an  eloquent  and  witty  defense 
of  form  in  poetry.  Certainly  the  control  is  masterful  in  “The 
Evergreen,”  an  eight-part  elegy  for  a  child.  The  poem  is  an 
exchange  between  the  grieved  narrator  and  an  insistent, 
pitiless  question.  This  is  the  third  stanza: 

How  was  that  year?  His  voice 

Over  sun  on  the  rug,  slow-turning. 

Hung  like  a  seabird  lost  the 

Lorn  and  bodiless  cry. 

Haunting  the  house.  And  then? 

1  remember  then.  One  morning 

Silence  like  knives  in  the  ear. 

A  bird  gone  over  the  sea. 

Gwendolyn  Brooks,  the  state’s  poet  laureate,  received 


a  Pulitzer  Prize  for  Annie  Allen  in  1950.  Her  work  since 
then,  volumes  of  poetry,  interviews,  recollections,  collages, 
journals  of  trips  to  Africa  and  elsewhere,  reveals  her  lifelong 
concern  to  express  the  richness  ol  black  culture.  Anguish, 
anger,  a  driving  will  for  change,  these  are  in  the  work. 
There  is  sharp  insight,  also,  wit  and  candor.  Taken  as  a 
whole,  there  is  something  luminous  about  her  work,  and 
generous,  as  her  life  has  been.  A  portion  of  all  this  can  be 
seen  in  lines  from  “The  Second  Sermon  on  the  Warpland” 
addressed  to  Walter  Bradford: 

Salve  salvage  in  the  spin. 

Endorse  the  splendor  splashes; 

stylize  the  flawed  utility; 

prop  a  malign  or  failing  light — 

but  know  the  whirlwind  is  our  commonwealth. 

Not  the  easy  man,  who  rides  above  them  all, 
not  the  jumbo  brigand, 

not  the  pet  bird  of  poets,  that  sweetest  sonnet, 
shall  straddle  the  whirlwind. 

Nevertheless,  live. 

Paul  Carroll  does  not  go  out  of  his  way  to  write  about 
Chicago,  but  references  to  the  city  have  a  bit  of  slipping 
into  his  poetry,  no  matter  the  subject,  as  in  these  lines  from 
his  elegy,  “Words  for  Neruda”: 

Wearing  a  mate’s  woolen  watchcap  you’re  standing  on 

the  deck 

of  the  ore  boat  inching  like  a  caterpiller  from  the 

harbor 

of  Chicago  bound  for  the  vast  white  pages  of 

the  Soo. 

Death  is  a  memory  of  rivers  with  no  names. 

Hxdor  son  laloun  en  emoy.  O  Neruda.  Father. 

Carroll  edited  Big  Table  in  1959  and  ’60,  printing  ar 
impressive  list  of  nonestablishment  writers,  such  as  Gar> 
Snyder,  John  Ashbery,  Frank  O'Hara  and  various  Beat  Gen 
eration  poets.  He  has  done  anthologies  and  a  book  of  criti 
cism;  he  has  translated  the  satirical  letters  of  St.  Jerome 
and  has  a  new  book  of  poems  in  the  press — The  Garden  o 
Earthly  Delights.  He  believes  that  poems  are  wiser  than  wi 
are,  and  if  he  could  he  would  write  them  with  no  reference 
beyond  themselves,  for  the  joy  of  it. 

John  Logan  gave  a  poetry  seminar  which  met  once  ; 
month  in  the  offices  of  the  Midwest  Clipping  Association 
This  was  in  1960.  So  many  of  the  students  in  the  semina 
went  on  to  establish  national  reputations  that  this  event  ha 
become  hallowed  in  the  history  of  these  things.  Marvin  Bell 
Naomi  Lazard,  William  Hunt,  Bill  Knott.  Dennis  Schmitz 
Charles  Simic  and  Barbara  Harr  were  among  those  wh 
attended.  Bell  has  left  an  account  of  the  seminar  and  c 
Losan’s  teaching,  which  w'as  printed  in  the  Spring-Summt 
1984  issue  of  TriQnarterly.  An  anthology  of  the  work  c 
these  poets  was  compiled  by  Logan  and  published  in  1981- 
The  Great  Chicago  Poetry  Reunion. 


76 


William  Hunt,  who  left  Chicago  quite  recently,  has 
'orked  with  labor  unions  and  community  action  groups, 
le  has  two  books:  Of  the  Map  that  Changes  and  Oceans 
ml  Corridors  of  Orpheus.  This  is  a  stanza  from  “A  Darken- 
ig  Outing  at  Sea”: 

Someone  is  stretching  out  below 
the  cold  surface  of  the  unbreatheable. 

His  fingers  lift  up  each  wave. 

He  moves  and  moves 

so  that  each  wave  rises  in  place. 

We  wait  and  watch 
and  he  acknowledges  that. 

As  a  student  at  Wilson  Junior  College  (now  Kennedy- 
dng)  in  the  1960s,  Walter  Bradford  began  writing  in  an 
ttempt  to  describe  his  experiences  as  a  street  gang  worker 
nd  organizer  sponsored  by  the  YMCA.  A  short  time  later, 
e  helped  to  found  OBAC  (Oh-baa-chee),  The  Organization 
f  Black  American  Culture.  OBAC  had  a  workshop  for 
dult  writers,  and  Hoyt  Fuller,  editor  of  Negro  Digest,  later 
lack  World,  served  as  an  advisor.  Participants  included 
»on  L.  Lee  (now  Haki  R.  Madhubuti),  a  classmate  of  Brad- 
Drd’s  at  Wilson,  and  Carolyn  Rogers,  Ronda  Davis,  Angela 
ickson  and  Sterling  Plumpp.  This  group  shifted  to  the 
mrkshop  of  Gwendolyn  Brooks  in  1969.  Their  work  was 
rinted  in  Nommo,  founded  in  that  year.  Bradford  was  very 
ctive  in  the  schools  and  prisons  in  the  ‘70s  as  a  teacher 
nd  editor.  Today  he  directs  a  half-way  house  on  Chicago’s 
^est  Side.  “Tribute:  Lucky  Lyons,  George  Slaughter, 
larold  Fleming  and  Bill  Irvin”  reflects  the  care-filled  mind 
f  its  author.  In  the  poem  Bradford  says  these  lines  were 
ot  written  to: 

buke  them  double  for  losing  their  way  to  Mecca 

and  falling  on  hard  times.  .  .  . 

it  is  a  repeat  of  the  ancient  sorrow  where 

these  spacebirds  took  their  chance  to  fly  free 

but  missed  and  fell  dead 

these  falcons  among  the  rest  of  us  crippled  roses 

still  here,  trying  to  get  free,  hoping  to  fly. 

Carolyn  Rodgers  has  half  a  dozen  books  to  her  credit, 
nd  How  /  Got  Ovah  (1975)  was  nominated  for  the  National 
look  Award.  She  has  recently  completed  an  M.  A.  in  English 
t  the  University  of  Chicago.  She  can  catch  the  flavor  of 
oik  and  street  speech  and  is  interested  in  religion  and  sci- 
nce.  The  fourth  poem  in  a  series  entitled  “Touch”  builds 
in  these  preoccupations.  Here  she  says  that  want  and  need 
re  the  same,  a  sun  reached  for  but  not  touched: 

your  hands,  a  beam  in  the  ark  of  trust, 
your  eyes,  a  lantern  in  a  sea  of  doubts, 
or  a  cleverness  to  be  defined  and  then, 
a  performance  in  the  precisely  corrected 
span  of  time. 

Sterling  D.  Plumpp  teaches  in  the  Black  Studies  Pro¬ 


gram  at  the  University  of  Illinois,  Chicago,  and  has  written 
a  monograph.  Black  Rituals,  as  well  as  several  volumes  of 
poems.  His  latest  work  is  The  Mojo  Hands  Call,  I  must  Go. 
A  poet  of  vast  range,  he  can  describe  a  good  dark  remem¬ 
bered  from  a  Mississippi  boyhood: 

Dew  comes  in  mugs  of  fog 
And  the  sun  oversleeps 
But  goes  to  bed  early. 

Off  in  your  nights  frost 
Becomes  coconut  of  midnight  cake 
As  we  watch  the  simmon  tree 
For  an  old  possum.  .  .  . 

He  can  move  from  this  lyrical  description  to  the  terrible 
indictment  of  Chicago  in  the  book's  title  poem  with  its  stark 
person:  “i  am  an  old  dream/listening  to  death.” 

Haki  R.  Madhubuti  directs  the  Institute  for  Positive 
Education.  He  is  founding  editor  of  the  influential  Black 
Books  Bulletin.  His  work  is  embattled.  He  has  perfected  the 
no-holds-barred,  clencjied  fist  of  rhetoric  necessary  for  this 
kind  of  poetry.  In  “Positive  Movement  Will  be  Difficult  but 
Necessary,”  his  repetition  of  “now”  builds  to  an  authorita¬ 
tive,  compelling  statement: 

quiet  world  we  are  the  people 

summer’s  sun  seen  us  through  many  winters 

here  sun  but  we’re  stronger  now  still 

unseen  unwanted  now  we  gather  out  thoughts  now 

clear  our  heads  now  collecting  our  direction  now 

looking  closer  into  eachother’s  eyes  now 

looking  toward  the  people  that  do  now 

getting  as  serious  about  enemies 

as  we  are  about  his  holidays  now  avoiding  deathtraps 

now 

A  racially  and  nationally  diverse  community,  the  Latino 
poets  in  Chicago  have  emerged  within  the  last  10  years.  A 
group  definition  is  not  easy  to  formulate.  Ralph  Cintron  in 
his  introduction  to  the  Ecos  selection  notes  that  “inside  many 
of  us  are  contradictory  feelings  and  perceptions:  nostalgia, 
bitterness,  relief,  pride,  embarrassment,  joy,  optimism,  pes¬ 
simism.  .  .  Pues  asi  es.  .  .  .” 

The  way  it  is  is  simply  noted  by  David  Hernandez  in 
“Memorial  Day”  as  he  writes  of  a  woman  who  has  spent 
her  life  as  an  activist,  “a  dream-keeper  of  those  other-wise 
zombied-/out  of  their  existence.”  She  appears  at  a  barbecue: 

colorless 

but  for  the  blood-clot 
breaking  through  the  skin  make-up 
covering 
the  needle-tracks 
on 
her 

left  arm. 

Carmelo  Romero  in  the  poem  “nests  to  be  Built"  calls 


I 

I 

A 


I 


,  I 

li 

1 

!;’ 

iii'i 


77 


for  a  unity  of  all  black  “pucrto  ricans-cubans-haitians- 
jamaicans-santodomingans”  to  confront  the  nation-state 
societies  that  oppress  them; 

latin 

kings 

talk 

bout; 

“we  ricans, 
we  bad!” 
cobra 
stones 
say; 

“we  stones, 
we  badder!” 

and 

they  rumble 

and  where  is  our  nation? 

And  Miriam  Herrera  in  “To  Jenny”  presents  a  voice 
that  wants  to  get  on  with  life: 

Let’s  finally  gag  the  plagiarist 
and  the  therapist,  all  others 
who’d  rob  us  of  our  wisdom. 

Our  screams  will  be  new  ones,  joyful 
with  the  earth,  with  the  pain  of  our  bodies 
splitting  open  for  children. 

Sandra  Cisneros  and  her  six  brothers,  Margarita  Lopez 
Flores  going  to  Loyola,  Carlos  Cumpian  of  the  Movimiento 
Artistico  Chicago,  and  the  “Street  Sounds,”  who  work  with 
Hernandez — all  these  and  their  companions,  they  know  that 
“el  tiempo  es  de  Nosotros." 

Colleges  and  universities  add  to  the  complexity  and 
richness  of  the  contemporary  scene  in  the  Second  City. 
Michael  Anania  and  Ralph  J.  Mills  Jr.  are  both  on  the 
faculty  of  the  University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago,  as  well 
as  Paul  Carroll  and  Miriam  Herrara.  The  University  of¬ 
fered  the  first  MFA  in  Creative  Writing  in  the  area.  Anania 
writes  a  complex,  analytical  poem.  In  “Sums”  the  central 
stanzas  attempt  to  rationalize  the  welter  of  impressions, 
crush  of  things,  fears,  whatever,  that  come  “hand  over 
hand/ascending  your  spine”; 

“alright,”  you  say,  “it’ll 
be  alright,”  nothing  more 
than  you  expected 
of  this  congestion 
a  matter  of  probable 

coincidence;  all  movement 
implies  collision: 
raise  the  temperature 
increase  the  pressure, 
and  it  multiplies. 


Anania  knows  the  politics  of  the  arts  in  Chicago.  Writers 
around  the  state  are  in  his  debt  for  many  long  hours  spent 
in  committee. 

His  colleague,  Ralph  J.  Mills,  began  as  a  critic  but 
over  the  years  has  published  many  volumes  of  small  press 
books.  In  his  urban  landscapes,  he  pays  attention  to  things 
which  are  so  taken  for  granted  that  they  are  often  overlooked, 
and  recreates  them  on  the  page  with  arresting  accuracy. 
These  lines  are  from  “1 1/80”: 

Not  sudden  dusk 
but  a 

later  lingering  sun 
floods  the  ivy 

each  leaf 
face  to  the  light 

its  shadow 
risen  behind 

&  painted  black  on  the 
pink  brick 

the  cloud-grey  stone 

A  graduate  of  the  University  of  Illinois  Chicago  pro¬ 
gram,  Albert  Goldbarth  is  now  in  Texas,  but  he  left  what 
he  calls  “a  Diary  of  sorts  kept  through  one  metaphorical 
winter.”  This  book,  Jan.  31,  is  steeped  in  the  sense  of 
Chicago.  The  power  of  the  verses  uncoils  in  “Poem  to  Com¬ 
fort  my  Sister,”  which  opens  with  these  lines: 

May  wind 

sets  the  edges  of  Chicago 
fluttering,  almost  as  if  the  city  would  lift 
off  the  map  and  skitter 
weightlessly,  its  zip  codes  tumbling 
through  metaphorical  lottery  drums. 

Northeastern  Illinois  State  University  enrolls  students  from 
the  Northwest  Side,  mostly — Oriental,  Slavic,  Hispanic — and 
from  the  beginning  favored  poets  who  could  speak  to  their 
urban  experiences.  Ted  Berrigan  did  this  for  the  students, 
and  during  his  tenure  at  the  university  kept  the  scene  lively 
with  visits  by  Black  Mountain  Poets  and  the  like  in  the  ‘60s 
and  early  70s.  His  work  is  free  formed  and  garrulous,  the 
rhythms  close  to  natural  speech.  His  selected  work.  So  Going 
Around  Cities,  was  published  in  1980,  a  solid  book.  These 
lines  are  from  “Buddha  on  the  Bounty”.  His  playfullness 
invites  a  second  glance. 

“The  Elephant  is  the  w  isest  of  all  animals 
The  only  one  who  remembers  his  former  lives 
&  he  remains  motionless  for  long  periods  of  time 
Meditating  thereon.”  I’m  not  here.  now. 

&  it  is  good,  absence. 

Deborah  Bruce  is  in  residence  at  Northeastern  at  the 
present  time.  A  feminist,  she  continues  the  university’s 
strong  urban  tradition.  Also  on  the  faculty  is  Gerald 


78 


Jemanic,  who  was  general  editor  for  the  impressive  A  Bib- 
'ographical  Guide  to  Midwestern  Literature.  He  has  been 
oing  weekly  radio  interviews  with  poets,  editors,  and 
ovelists  from  the  area  since  1983.  The  program  is  called 
Vriting  Chicago,  and  can  be  heard  over  WBEZ. 

Lake  Forest  College  has  had  a  writer  in  residence, 
sually  a  poet,  each  year  for  the  last  10 — Tess  Gallagher 
nd  Denise  Levertov  among  these.  The  college  offers  a 
lajor  in  creative  writing,  which  about  half  the  English 
lajors  choose.  There  are  shared  activities  with  Ragdale, 
le  Alice  Ryerson  artists’  community,  which  is  close  at 
and.  Nance  Van  Winckel  has  been  on  the  faculty  for  the 
ist  six  years.  Her  books  are  The  24  Doors  and  Advent 
Mlendar.  In  “Cracking  the  Case,”  Van  Winckel  describes 
ow  Mr.  Moto  searches  for  a  murderer  while; 

Always  on  the  phone,  we’re 
inventing  motives,  perfectly  good 
little  fibs  we  like  to  ruin  with  love. 

The  way  we  make  every  plot 

turn  on  it,  wind  up  every  heart  with  it. 

Northwestern  University  and  its  beautiful  student 
nion,  a  place  for  coffee  and  a  serene  glance  out  over  the 
ike,  has  about  a  third  of  its  undergraduate  English  majors 
nterested  in  the  craft  of  poetry.  Mary  Kenzie  is  director  of 
lie  writing  program.  She  won  the  University  of  Missouri 
)evins  Award  in  1982,  and  now  has  a  second  book  ready, 
ihe  edited  with  Elliot  Anderson  The  Little  Magazine  in 
imerica:  A  Modern  Documentary  History.  This  was  printed 
n  TriQuarterly,  1978,  and  issued  in  hard  cover  that  year 
ly  Pushcart  Press.  The  poem  entitled  “List”  from  her  book, 
'he  Threshold  of  the  Year,  tells  what  to  bring  and  do  when 
ailed  in  by  unspecified  interrogators: 

Keep  breathing  regular.  Do  no 
negotiate  when  apprehended. 

Take  what  to  do  while  they  divine 
what  you  are  doing  there. 

Dennis  Brutus,  the  South  African  exiled  poet,  is  also 
m  the  staff  at  Northwestern.  And  Daryl  Hine,  a  former 
:ditor  of  Poetry,  gives  a  class  each  spring.  Alan  Shapiro, 
luthor  of  The  Courtesy,  brings  a  touch  of  Yvor  Winters  to 
he  campus. 

Three  other  centers  should  be  noted.  Roosevelt  Univer¬ 
ity,  where  poets  Norman  Leer  and  John  Jacob  teach,  funds 
lyez  Review,  a  well-designed  magazine  of  poetry  and  occa- 
ionally  fiction.  It  is  edited  at  present  by  Constance  Kwain. 
..oyola  University  has  had  an  exciting  spring  poetry  festival 
or  the  past  several  years.  Patrick  Casey  of  the  English 
department  has  put  these  occasions  together.  The  University 
)f  Chicago  has  not  yet  replaced  Elder  Olson,  but  A.K. 
lamanujan,  translator  of  a  selection  of  love  poems  from 
he  classical  Tamil,  teaches  there.  Primavera,  an  attractive 
nagazine  which  publishes  work  by  or  about  women,  has 
in  editorial  staff — Ann  Gearen,  Rebecca  Hecht-Lewis, 
leanne  Krinsley ,  et  al . — that  is  connected  one  way  or  another 


with  the  university.  .And,  of  course,  the  Chicago  Review, 
always  with  student  editors,  is  an  old  standby. 

Columbia  College  on  Michigan  Avenue  is  a  school  of 
fine  arts.  Paul  Hoover  came  on  as  poet  in  residence  there 
when  Bill  Knott  left  for  the  east  coast  in  the  mid  ‘70s. 
Hoover  is  on  the  board  of  the  Poetry  Center  at  the  School 
of  the  Art  Institute  of  Chicago  and  is  editor  of  the  little 
magazine  Oink.  He  likes  the  casual  and  the  offhand  but  is 
very  serious  for  all  that,  an  intellect  at  sober  play.  In  “Ode 
to  the  Protestant  Poets,”  he  writes  about  someone  describing 
a  tornado: 

“It  looked  like  a  big  blue  mountain  turned  upside  down.” 

You  can  tell  he  thought  it.  I’d  almost  say 
he  thought  the  whole  thing  up. 

Mostly  I  believe  what  I  read  in  the  papers. 

Model  Railroader,  and  Popular  Mechanics. 


Poets  with  some  relationship  to  Columbia  College  are 
prominent  in  Chicago  today.  They  are  busy  on  the  reading 
circuit,  going  to  the  coffeehouses,  bars,  galleries  and  book¬ 
stores  where  these  moments  are  staged.  Jerome  Sal’s  work 
is  new  wave,  nonconfessional,  tending  toward  the  nihilstic. 
City-written,  with  thematic  connections  like  shunted  freight 
cars,  it  is  persuasive  in  its  music  and  density.  These  are  the 
final  lines  from  “End  of  the  Century,”  the  “I”  in  a  power 
position  like  a  rook  on  chess  board,  short  vowels  drawn 
into  its  orbit.  Macbeth,  Gregory  Peck  in  his  submarine.  Jack 
Hawks,  there  are  as  many  illusion/allusions  as  a  reader  can 
want  to  bring  to  the  poem: 

But  OUT,  OUT,  no  more  nostalgia  anymore — 

It  must  be  a  highway  with  no  lights 

or  a  dancing  kimono  that  cries 

for  my  dumb  friends  and  I 

as  we  die  on  this  beach  and  realize 

it’s  the  girdle  for  the  devil’s  fanny 

it’s  cannibal’s  lament 

that  breaks  this  terrible  chain  forever! 


Maxine  Chernoff’s  “A  Concise  History  of  the  United 
States”  moves  from  jails  to  blindfolded  cowboys  to  dreams 
of  Paris  to  dinners  with  robins  in  the  pot  to  the  macho 
reclining: 

The  one-armed  hero  had  a  cloud 
to  rest  his  head  on. 

Often  he  sleepily  mutters, 

“The  map  is  ample.  Bring  me 
my  medals,  Louise.” 

And  Elain  Equi  can  double  and  triple  a  shot  in  a  few  clear 
lines,  as  in  “For  Hollis  Sigler”: 


Meanwhile  in  the  city,  men  are  dancing  with 

tape  measures. 

Building  things, 

without  any  Bowers. 

When  they’re  done, 

they’ll  want  to  hire  some  women. 

Young  poets  in  Chicago,  those  just  getting  started, 
might  want  to  get  to  as  many  readings  as  possible.  These 
are  often  storefront  affairs,  changing  whenever  the  space  is 
denied  or  offered.  Whatever,  the  young  poets  could  visit 
the  Get  Me  High  Lounge,  heavy  with  Beat  Generation  at¬ 
mosphere.  They  might  be  able  to  listen  to  Walter  Bradford 
or  Judith  West  there.  Or  they  could  scout  the  International 
Woman’s  Day  reading  for  Sharon  Mesmer,  Julie  Parson, 
Debbie  Pintonelli  and  many  others.  They  could  hear  Donald 
Deering  and  Carl  Watson  at  the  Black  Cat  Club.  Or  hear  a 
special  reading  by  James  Merrill  at  a  benefit  for  the  Poetry 
Center  of  the  Art  Institute.  Who  knows,  these  young  poets 
might  be  able  to  participate  themselves  at  an  open  reading, 
or  be  invited  to  do  a  solo  appearance  for  carfare  on  a  given 
night.  There  are  many  places  such  as  the  Off  the  Beaten 
Path  Cafe  or  the  Skokie  Library  where  Effie  Mihopoulos 
helped  establish  readings  that  are  held  the  second  Tuesday 
of  every  month. 

The  chances  are  that  the  young  writers  would  meet 
some  of  the  more  established  writers,  even  from  the  far 
suburbs  and  towns  around  Chicago,  at  literary  events  such 
as  a  reception  for  Another  Chicago  Magazine  or  a  book 
signing  at  Guild  Books  or  at  Barbara’s  Bookstore.  The  old 
timers  might  be  talking  about  the  great  readings  in  the  ‘70s 
at  the  Body  Politic  that  were  orchestrated  by  Richard  Fried¬ 
man,  Darline  Pearlstein,  Art  Lange  and  Peter  Kostakis. 
There  may  even  be  gray-haired  browsers  who  remember 
The  Rising  Moon,  said  to  have  been  burned  down  by  patrons 
who  were  tired  of  listening  to  poets.  Always  good  chitchat 
in  the  bookstores  and  a  chance  to  find  out  what  has  been 
going  on  lately. 

If  no  one  is  around,  then  there  are  magazines  to  puzzle 
over  and  to  buy.  Oyez  Review,  Primavera,  Oink,  Chicago 
Review,  TriQiiarterly,  ACM.  These  are  all  magazines  that 
are  known  in  Chicago  and  outside  as  well.  Little  magazines 
tend  to  reflect  the  penchants  of  their  editors.  They  are  excit¬ 
ing  because  anything  might  turn  up  in  an  issue.  Milk  Quar¬ 
terly,  Privates,  BCity,  and  now-defunct  Rhino — these 
magazines  of  their  nature  spark  high-flying  comments  like 
“They  did  a  ‘Hats’  issue.  It  was  so  stupid  it  was  great.” 

The  young  writers  will  sooner  or  later  pick  up  a  news¬ 
letter,  one  of  those  brief  chronicles  of  the  times.  The  most 
recent  of  these  is  Letter  eX,  edited  by  Mesmer,  Pintonelli 
and  Watson.  This  is  a  broadside,  an  11  by  17  inch  triple 
column  sheet  printed  front  and  back.  It  is  crammed  with 
news  and  full  of  remarks  about  aggressively  good  poetry 
and  post  industrialist  poetry  and  archetypal  midwestemers. 
Good  things  to  save.  Copies  of  the  old  Two  Hands  newsletter 
must  be  rare  and  valuable  now. 

It  is  time  to  bring  this  survey  to  an  end.  Many  apologies 
to  those  writers  who  have  not  been  represented  in  it.  There 


is,  for  example,  Robert  Cuscaden,  whose  work  has  been 
printed  in  Heartland  and  in  Stibitz.  As  editor  of  Midwest  > 
in  the  ‘5()s,  he  made  an  important  contribution  to  the  defi¬ 
nition  of  the  region’s  literature.  There  is  Isabella  Gardner, 
remembered  with  such  affection  and  esteem  by  those  who 
knew  her.  She  was  at  one  time  associate  editor  of  Poetry, 
and  among  her  several  books  is  West  oj  Childhood:  Poems 
1950-1965.  And  what  about  James  McCurry,  editor  of  De¬ 
lirium?  And  Barry  Silesky  of  ACM?  Or  Marcia  Lee  Masters? 
Or  Henry  Kanabus?  or  Lydia  Tomkiw?  And  Mark  Pearlburg. 
whose  book.  The  Feel  of  the  Sun,  has  those  handsome  re¬ 
nderings  of  Chinese  poems  from  Tu  Fu,  Li  Ch’ing-chao  and 
Wang  Wei?  They  will  have  to  stand  for  all  those  whose 
work  has  been  slighted  in  this  essay.  That  they  have  not 
been  represented  is  an  indication  of  my  limitations  as  a 
writer  and  of  the  scope  of  the  subject. 

To  make  an  ending,  it  might  be  good  to  recall  some 
lines  that  Alice  Notley  attributes  to  Petrarch  in  her  poem 
“For  All  the  Songs  I  Sing”: 

Linger  and  see  my  passionate  peace  of  heart 
Desire  high 

Above  a  calm  sea  of  stars 
Weaving  from  it  a  circlet  for  her 
Blazing  hair 

Miracle  to  be  crushed  aginst  such  dreams 

Boldly 

Bodily 

My  strolling  pensive  wit.  .  .  . 

These  lines  can  speak  for  all  of  us.  surely,  with  our  poems — 
and  their  silences. 

BRIEF  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

These  references  are  intended  to  assist  anyone  who 
would  like  to  set  up  a  modest  library  for  the  study  of  Illinois 
poetry.  The  Stibitz  anthology  is  indispensable.  It  has  com¬ 
mentary  on  and  ample  selections  from  Illinois  poets  between 
1830  and  1965.  Neely  has  folk  poetry  and  song  snatches 
from  Southern  Illinois,  but  there  are  references  to  Chicago 
in  some  of  these.  Illinois  Authors,  the  READ  ILLINOIS 
project  for  1983,  has  useful  bibliographies. 

The  Bial  Illinois  Small  Press  Directory  has  publication 
information  that  is  not  available  elsewhere.  For  19th  century 
poets,  the  John  Hallwas  articles  are  a  must.  George  Mon- 
teiro’s  edition  should  be  consulted  for  John  Hay.  Chicago 
literature  in  the  19th  century  has  been  studied  by  Kenny  J. 
Williams.  The  works  of  Dale  Kramer  and  Bernard  Dutfey 
are  still  keys  for  the  Chicago  Renaissance  writers.  A  study 
of  Harriet  Monroe  by  Ellen  Williams  is  full  of  interesting 
material.  For  leads  to  Masters.  Lindsay  and  Sandburg,  the 
Hallwas  collection  of  essays  by  various  scholars.  The  Vision 
of  this  Land,  is  a  first  choice.  It  has  a  good  bibliography 
from  1950.  Within  the  last  ten  years  there  have  been  impor¬ 
tant  publications  in  regard  to  the  three  Prairie  Poets.  Dennis 
Camp  has  seen  two  parts  of  a  three  volume  work  on 


80 


ndsay’s  poetry  and  prose  through  the  press.  Marc 
lenetier  has  brought  out  Lindsay’s  letters.  He  has  two 
iportant  articles  on  the  poet,  also.  John  Flanagan  has 
thered  a  collection  of  essays  in  a  profile  study  of  Lindsay, 
lere  are  four  works  on  Masters,  one  by  his  son,  Hardin 
asters;  another,  a  study  of  the  critical  response  to  the 
)oon  River  poems  by  Flanagan;  the  Ronald  Primeau  work 
I  the  legacy  of  Masters;  and  finally,  a  study  in  the  Twayne 
ries  by  the  Wrenns.  There  is  now  a  critical  edition  of  Carl 
indburg’s  Ever  the  Winds  of  Change.  There  are  also  journal 
tides  on  Sandburg  by  Richard  Crowder,  Duffey,  and  Paul 
;rlazzo  and  Daniel  Hoffman.  The  Elliott  Anderson-Mary 
inzie  work  on  the  American  little  magazine  has  an  inter- 
sw  with  Karl  Shapiro  on  his  editorship  of  Poetry,  Peter 
ichaelson  on  Big  Table  and  The  Chicago  Review,  Eugene 
jdmond’s  survey  of  Afro-American  magazines  with  infor- 
ation  on  Nommo,  Umbra  and  Black  Books  Bulletin,  and 
seph  Parisi’s  forthright  history  of  Poetry'.  An  annotated 
bliography  has  notes  on  Big  Table,  The  Chicago  Review, 
hoice,  December,  Poetry  and  TriQuarterly.  TriQuarterly’ s 
’hicago”  issue,  edited  by  Reginald  Gibbons,  contains  the 
arvin  Bell  memoir.  Important  anthologies  are  the  two 
icien  Stryk  Heartlands,  the  Mary  Trimble  Banyans,  espe¬ 


cially  for  Chicago  writers,  and  15  Chicago  Poets,  edited  by 
Richard  Friedman.  Late  Harvest,  edited  by  Robert  Killoren, 
has  essays  and  selections  of  poetry  for  midwestem  poets, 
including  several  from  Illinois.  Background  information  for 
the  development  of  contemporary  black  poetry  is  provided 
by  Redmond  in  Drumvoices.  He  also  edited  Sides  of  the 
River  which  has  work  by  black  poets  from  greater  St.  Louis 
and  the  East  Side.  Jump  Bad  is  a  selection  of  young  black 
poets  from  the  late  ‘60s.  An  anthology  in  honor  of  Gwendo¬ 
lyn  Brooks  was  compiled  by  Arthur  Brown.  Latino  poetry 
from  Chicago  is  available  in  the  “Nosotros”  isuue  of  Revista 
Chicano-Riqueno ,  edited  by  Nicolas  Kanellos;  The  Other 
Chicago  Poets;  edited  by  David  Hernandez,  “The  Chicago 
Latino  World”  issue  of  Ecos,  by  Cintron.  This  Awkward 
Mud,  Greg  Koos  and  James  McGowan,  offers  a  selec¬ 
tion  of  mostly  downstate  poets.  Illinois  Poets:  An  Exhibit, 
gathered  by  Patricia  Takemoto,  features  work  by  thirteen 
poets,  together  with  a  brief  description,  a  photograph  and 
a  self  statement  for  each  writer.  Finally,  important  informa¬ 
tion  on  Chicago  small-press  publishing,  Chicago  bookstores 
that  carry  small-press  titles,  and  Illinois  Writers  Incorpor 
ated,  is  included  in  the  July-August  1985  issue  (Vol.  2,  No. 
6)  of  Small  Press  magazine. 


I 

I 

I 

1 


1 


I 


I  '' 
1  !'■ 


81 


^  if iwiHiF  1  — -  ■■  ■  ^  ^  til.. 


1 

I 

I 

I 

f 

\ 

I 

I 

I 

I 


I 


[ 


I 


J.  ILLINOIS  WOMEN  AND  THEIR 
LITERATURE 

by  Babette  Inglehart 

.  INTRODUCTORY 

In  writing  the  following  essay,  I  have  had  in  mind 
iveral  purposes:  first  of  all,  to  illuminate  how  women  in 
linois  have  lived  from  the  earliest  times  of  which  we  have 
;cords  to  the  present,  and  how  women  have  reported  how 
ley  have  lived,  so  that  we  have  an  accurate  perception  of  the 
langes  (and  continuities)  in  women’s  lives,  their  roles,  and 
leir  consciousness  of  themselves — in  short,  to  peice  together 
portrait  of  the  Illinois  heroine. 

Because  so  many  of  the  letters,  diaries,  and  memoirs 
■e  ephemeral,  and  because  much  of  the  popular  literature 
ritten  by,  about,  and  for  women  is  often  gone  from  the 
brary  shelves  within  a  few  years  of  its  printing,  many  of 
le  writers  discussed  here  are  neglected  or  unknown.  There- 
are,  my  second  major  purpose  has  been  to  uncover  these 
/orks  and  these  writers  and  to  restore  them  to  the  literary 
eritage  of  the  state.  In  order  to  appreciate  the  value  of 
opular  fiction,  it  is  necessary  to  put  it  in  the  context  of 
ocial  history  and  of  women’s  history,  and  this  is  yet  another 
purpose  of  this  essay. 

Finally,  it  should  be  said  that  many  works  by  Illinois 
/omen  do  not  have  as  their  central  concern  the  lives  of 
/omen,  and  those  have  not  been  included.  My  aim  was  to 
ive  the  reader  a  sense  of  women’s  contribution  to  the  build- 
ng  of  Illinois — culturally,  economically,  politically,  and  so- 
ially — as  these  contributions  are  reflected  in  their  writing. 

PIONEER  WOMEN 

From  the  early  1820s  through  the  1840s,  as  pioneer 
/omen  accompanied  their  husbands  into  the  unknown  wil- 
lemess  that  was  becoming  Illinois,  they  somehow  found 
be  time  to  write  letters  home,  keep  journals  and  diaries, 
,nd  record  their  day-to-day  experiences.  Lillian  Schlissel’s 
ollection  of  women’s  diaries  '  focused  on  a  period  some- 
vhat  later  in  the  westward  migration  (the  1840s  to  1860s) 
ind  on  the  journey  from  the  plains  to  the  western  states, 
mt  a  number  of  observations  she  makes  about  the  nature 
)f  this  movement  are  also  relevant  to  the  lives  of  Illinois 
)ioneer  women  of  the  previous  generation. 

The  19th  century  diary  was  like  a  family  history,  a 
ouvenir  meant  to  be  shared  like  a  Bible,  handed  down,  to 
)e  viewed  not  as  an  individual’s  story  but  as  the  history  of 
i  family’s  growth  and  course  through  time.  Such  was  cer- 
ainly  the  case  with  Juliette  Kinzie’s  Wau-Bun,  -  which, 
vhile  not  a  diary,  recorded  the  experiences  of  several  gen- 
:rations  of  Kinzie  women,  as  told  from  mother  to  daughter, 
ind  was  to  be  used  at  least  in  part  to  reconstruct  a  history 
)f  the  family  and  of  its  deep  connections  with  early  Chicago. 
Christiana  Tillson’s  volume  ’  consists  of  stories  told  to  her 


daughter  many  years  after  they  occurred,  as  she  lay  on  her 
death  bed,  and  were  meant  to  be  kept  within  the  family. 
Rebecca  Burlend’s  tales  of  frontier  life  were  told  to  her 
son  when  she  returned  to  England  many  years  after  emigrat¬ 
ing  and  were  written  down  by  him  for  purposes  not  only  of 
family  record  and  pride,  but  as  helpful  advice  for  countrymen 
anticipating  a  similar  move. 

Schlissel  asks  us  to  be  aware  of  the  differences  in  the 
migration  experience  for  men  and  for  women;  unlike  men, 
for  whom  it  was  an  adventure  to  better  and  improve  them¬ 
selves,  a  testing  and  reaching  out,  for  most  women  it  was 
a  serious  dislocation,  a  separation  from  family  and  loved 
ones,  from  the  networks  of  support  and  affection  they  de¬ 
pended  upon.  Thus,  women  saw  and  wrote  about  the  experi¬ 
ence  differently  than  did  the  men.  She  draws  our  attention 
as  well  to  the  extent  to  which  women  were  not  only  expected 
to  follow  traditional  female  patterns  of  marriage,  as  suppor¬ 
ters  of  men,  homemakers  and  child-bearers,  but  were  often 
expected  to  serve  as  heads  of  households  when  the  need 
arose  (if  the  male  was  ill,  or  absent,  as  was  often  the  case), 
and  were  sometimes  required  to  perform  men’s  work  (as 
when  Rebecca  Burlend  must  harvest  the  wheat  crop  because 
her  husband  is  unable  to  move  his  legs).  Nevertheless,  the 
nature  of  the  experience  reflects  some  innate  differences  in 
the  socialization  of  men  and  women  in  the  19th  century, 
for  while  men  writing  of  this  period  focus  on  the  adventure, 
the  conflict  and  the  competitive  spirit  of  the  undertaking, 
women  express  their  reservations  and  opposition,  their  reluc¬ 
tance  to  undertake  the  unknown,  their  submissiveness  to 
fate  that  they  had  little  role  in  deciding.  While  men  record 
their  victories  over  nature  and  the  Indians,  women  record 
the  costs  in  human  life;  the  disease,  the  accidents,  the  chil¬ 
dren  left  buried  along  the  way — for  it  is  the  women  who 
cared  for  the  sick  and  dying  and  who  took  in  maintaining 
and  preserving  the  integrity  of  family  life  against  all  odds. 

If  many  women  who  came  to  Illinois  from  the  East 
opposed  emigration,  it  was  because  they  enjoyed  few  of  the 
adventures  and  little  of  the  freedom,  yet  endured  most  of 
the  burdens  of  the  undertaking,  including  the  perilous  and 
uncomfortable  journeys,  separation  from  friends  and  family, 
disease  and  death,  isolation  and  loneliness,  and  the  burdens 
of  maintaining  a  household  with  inadequate  supplies  and 
tools,  (as  feminist  critic  Annette  Kolodny  documents  vividly 
in  her  new  work.  The  Land  Before  Her^).  As  critic  Carl 
Degler  notes,  *  while  most  women  were  not  eager  to  make 
the  trip,  the  power  of  19th  century  patriarchy  prevailed; 
their  journals  and  letters,  therefore,  reflect  submission  to 
their  fate,  but  also  their  determination  and  strength  to  prevail 
despite  the  odds. 

In  the  annals  of  Illinois  pioneer  women,  we  are  fortu¬ 
nate  to  have  several  important  first-hand  accounts  of  settle¬ 
ment:  in  roughly  chronological  order  they  are  Christiana 
Holmes  Tillson’s  A  Woman's  Story  of  Pioneer  Illinois;  Re¬ 
becca  Burlend’s  A  True  Picture  of  Emigration:  Carolyn 
Phelps’  “Diary”;  Juliette  Kinzie’s  Wau-Bun;  Eliza  Far- 
nham’s  Life  in  Prairie  Land;  Mary  Mitchell’s  “Reminis¬ 
cences  of  the  Early  Northwest”;  Mary  Washburn  Parkinson’s 
“Travels  in  Western  America  in  1837”  and  “The  Diary  of 


I 


4 


83 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


Mrs.  Elizabeth  Dixon  Smith  Geer”;  ’  as  well  as  a  number 
of  Indian  eaptivity  narratives  and  a  woman’s  aceount  of  the 
Fort  Dearborn  massacre.  There  are  also  numerous  fictional 
accounts  based,  in  part,  on  these  primary  sources.  These 
accounts  cover  the  period  1812  through  the  late  1 84()s  and 
take  us  through  northern,  central,  and  southern  Illinois,  trac¬ 
ing  the  lives  of  early  pioneer  women. 

Christiana  Holmes  Tillson’s  A  Woman’s  Story  of 
Pioneer  Illinois  was  written  in  1870-1871  and  privately  printed; 
it  was  intended  to  be  kept  in  the  family,  the  stories  told  by  an 
elderly  mother  to  her  daughter  and  was  not  reprinted  until 
1919  in  the  Lakeside  Classics  series.  Bom  in  Massachusetts  in 
1796,  Mrs.  Tillson  accompanied  her  husband  to  Illinois  in 
1822  as  a  bride  and  settled  in  the  area  around  Hillsboro 
(near  Alton).  Her  story  records  the  reactions  produced  upon 
a  refined  New  England  woman  by  an  environment  “predo¬ 
minantly  southern  and  wholly  frontier”  where,  as  editor 
Milo  Quaife  points  out,  northerners  looked  with  amused 
condescension  upon  the  slovenly  ways  and  provincial  ignor- 
nance  of  their  southern  neighbors,  who  in  turn  sneered  at 
the  Yankees.  Quaife  reminds  us  too  that  although  Mrs. 
Tillson  presents  us  with  an  impressive  picture  of  the  burden 
of  toil  laid  upon  the  pioneer  housewife,  one  must  bear  in 
mind  that  her  lot  was  “relatively  favored”  in  that  her  husband 
was  a  man  of  education  and  means  able  to  provide  the  best 
the  frontier  afforded,  prosperous  in  time  through  his  real 
estate  speculations  and  prominent  in  Illinois,  at  least  until 
1837  when  the  panic  shattered  his  fortune. 

Mrs.  Tillson  records  the  fearful  seven  week  journey 
from  Massachusetts  to  Illinois,  the  stopover  in  Shawneetown 
which  “disgusted  and  outraged”  her  with  its  drunkenness 
and  profanity,  her  attempts  to  adjust  to  backwoods  life  which 
is  completely  alien  to  her  with  its  conflicts  between  Yankees 
and  Southerners;  her  encounters  there  with  the  poverty,  ig¬ 
norance  and  filthiness  of  the  people;  the  mistreatment  of 
country  women  by  their  husbands;  the  “black  dismal  prairie” 
far  from  being  the  lush  green  garden  she  anticipated.  Other 
disappointments  include  the  loss  of  trunks  sent  from  home 
with  household  goods  and  winter  clothes,  which  must  then 
be  bought  second-hand;  the  sheer  physical  burden  of  run¬ 
ning  a  household  so  far  from  civilization;  the  constant  visits 
by  men  travelling  on  business,  or  backwoodsmen  and  their 
families  who  feel  free  to  use  her  home  as  a  stopping  place; 
and  the  loneliness  and  desolation  of  delivering  her  first 
child  while  her  husband  is  off  on  a  trip.  For  compensation 
there  are  few  and  infrequent  visits  with  other  easteners 
— the  only  ones  with  notions  of  refinement  and  comfort 
familiar  to  this  lady;  the  importance  to  her  of  her  single 
woman  friend,  a  Mrs.  Townsend  who  sometimes  relieves 
her  of  child-care  so  she  can  find  rest;  visits  of  persons  of 
refinement;  and  her  very  occasional  trips  away  from  home 
(less  than  10  in  the  4  years  she  lives  in  the  area).  In  the 
interim,  her  personal  appearance  suffers  greatly,  her  hair 
falls  out  from  a  fever  attack,  her  clothes  are  as  outdated  as 
those  of  an  old  lady — so  that  she  feels  physically  and 
psychologically  inadequate  to  meet  society.  Isolation  is 
clearly  on  her  mind  as  is  over-work,  most  of  the  time.  In 
addition  to  giving  birth  to  two  children  within  a  four-year 


period,  cooking  for  her  family  and  a  succession  of  visitors 
and  hangers-on  (especially  ministers)  in  her  home,  getting 
clean  water  for  cooking  (a  painstaking  process  calling  on 
physical  strength,  dexterity  and  patience),  attending  upon 
her  husband  when  he  is  ill,  she  also  serves  as  his  “amanuen¬ 
sis”  writing  his  business  letters  and  attending  to  his  papers,  | 
and  as  salesperson  in  his  store.  The  loneliness  for  her  family^ 
back  east,  whom  she  does  not  see  in  four  years,  becomes 
overpowering  and  she  finally  returns  home  in  1827,  with 
two  children,  aged  3  and  I,  a  trip  of  four  weeks,  taken  in 
a  state  of  exhaustion  from  a  winter  of  toil  and  preparations 
for  the  journey  and  involving  stagecoach,  boat,  and  many 
changes  of  conveyances.  j 

Still,  in  comparison  to  lives  of  lower-class  pioneer 
women,  Mrs.  Tillson’s  lot  is  almost  idyllic.  If  we  look,  for 
example,  at  “Mrs.  Caroline  Phelps’  Diary”  covering  the, 
years  1830  to  1840  we  find  a  life  of  nomadic  and  rootlessj 
existence,  of  almost  unmitigated  suffering  and  hardship.! 
with  few  of  the  “bright  spots”  and  islands  of  calm  afforded 
Mrs.  Tillson.  Told  in  her  own  words,  the  narrative  meanders,' 
confuses  chronology  and  is  marred  by  the  syntax  and  gram-, 
mar  of  a  barely  educated  girl.  Further,  she  rarely  questions 
her  situation  or  tries  to  think  of  ways  of  improving  it.  Hei 
husband,  William,  a  backwoods  fur  trader  who  deals  with 
the  Indians  in  the  area  of  Lewiston,  Sweet  Home,  Oquawka.' 
and  across  the  Mississippi  into  Keokuk,  is  frequently  away 
for  long  periods  of  time,  leaving  her  stranded,  near  starva¬ 
tion,  in  extreme  cold  and  hardship.  Without  the  help  ol 
Indian  women,  and  their  companionship,  she  would  nevei 
have  survived.  Frequently  moving  to  follow  her  husband] 
she  must  travel  over  primitive  roads  and  by  water,  in  wagor 
or  by  canoe,  often  fording  icy  rivers  on  foot.  Often  he^ 
home  is  a  camp  under  the  stars  as  they  move  from  one 
Indian  camp  to  another.  Having  run  off  to  marry  Williarr 
against  the  advice  of  all  parties,  she  recalls  the  words  oj 
her  father  that  William  is  wild  and  careless  and  she  woulc 
have  to  live  like  a  squaw.  Often  she  is  reduced  to  living  or 
com  and  crabapples,  even  stealing  biscuits  from  a  travellet 
in  order  to  feed  herself  and  her  children.  She  lives  througl 
hurricanes  and  tumultuous  rainstorms  when  water  burst; 

.  I 

through  her  chimney.  Although  the  Indians  are  protectivr 
and  companionable  to  her,  there  is  also  a  dark  side;  thej 
are  not  always  trustworthy;  their  drinking  makes  them  viO| 
lent.  In  one  episode  she  is  attacked  by  an  Indian  wieldim 
an  iron  wedge.  In  another  incident,  she  returns  from  a  trii  • 
down  river  to  find  that  Indians  have  robbed  their  home  ant,  ^ 
have  taken  it  over.  She  is  forced  to  witness  revenge  fights 
killings,  drinking  bouts,  and  drunken  how  ling  until  Willian 
comes  home  and  clears  them  out.  Only  then  does  she  com 
ment,  “How  glad  I  am  to  have  peace  and  quietness  agaii 
after  so  much  howling  in  the  wilderness,  it  we  always  hai 
to  live  as  I  have  for  three  weeks  past  I  could  not  stay  in  th- 
Indian  country,  but  I  never  was  very  much  afraid  of  them  '■ 
(p.  232).  I 

A  fictionalized  and  much-romanticized  version  ot  th 
early  years  of  the  Phelps’  marriage  is  presented  in  r/i- 
Yellow  Rose:  A  Wilderness  Honexmoon  (1929).  ”  The  nove 

f 

focuses  on  the  couple’s  experiences  during  the  severe  w  inte 


84 


f  1830-1831,  shortly  after  their  marriage,  as  they  set  up 
ousekeeping  in  Iowa  where  William  plies  his  trade  as  fur 
ader  and  woodsman.  Their  devotion  to  each  other  is 
Kcmplary  and  allows  them  to  overcome  all  difficulties — 
ostile  Indians,  threats  of  starvation,  and  other  hardships  of 
ioneer  life.  Their  idyllic  marriage,  their  carefree  youth  and 
3ility  to  triumph  over  all  adversity,  and  the  beauty  of  the 
ildemess  bear  little  resemblance  to  the  grim  realities  of 
fe  reported  in  Caroline’s  own  diary. 

That  life  in  the  wilderness  is  a  mixed  blessing,  even 
)r  those  women  who  are  eager  to  undertake  it  and  who 
ave  many  of  the  material  means  by  which  to  enjoy  it,  is 
lustrated  in  Juliette  Kinzie’s  Wau-Bun,  the  first  part  of 
hich  records  her  honeymoon  trip  from  Detroit  to  Ft.  Win- 
;bago,  where  she  is  to  make  her  home,  followed  by  the 
;count  of  a  “pleasure  trip”  from  Wisconsin  to  Chicago  to 
isit  her  husband’s  family  which  nearly  turns  into  their 
ire  well  voyage. 

Mrs.  Kinzie  as  a  young  bride  looks  forward  to  living 
I  the  “region  of  romance”  in  Indian  country  about  which 
le  has  read  since  childhood  and  where  her  husband  has 
)ent  much  of  his  youth.  Welcomed  along  the  way  from 
etroit,  in  Mackinac  and  at  Green  Bay,  by  associates  of 
Ir.  Kinzie’s  who  entertain  them  and  by  friendly  Ottawa 
idians  who  have  known  and  respected  Kinzie  for  the  seven 
:ars  he  has  dwelt  among  them  as  an  agent  for  the  American 
ur  Company,  the  young  bride  is  sure  that  once  her  piano 
id  books  arrive  from  the  East,  and  once  she  meets  the  wife 
f  the  commanding  officer  at  Ft.  Winnebago  (the  only  other 
hite  woman  in  the  area),  she  will  settle  down  to  a  happy 
dstence  in  the  wilderness.  She  is  anxious  to  begin  “my 
)rest  life“  and  would  fain  lay  aside  the  “indulgences  of 
vilization”  (p.  43);  to  be  welcomed  as  “mother“  to  the 
idians.  She  is  filled,  in  anticipation,  with  a  “general  good- 
ill  and  a  hope  of  making  them  my  friends”  (p.  45).  Able 
I  enjoy  the  camping-out  adventures  because  there  are  a 
Limber  of  soldiers  along  to  set  up  camp  and  even  a  French 
lok  to  prepare  meals,  her  dreams  of  happiness  on  the 
ontier  seem  realizable.  Mrs.  Twiggs,  (the  captain’s  wife) 
eager  for  her  arrival  and  companionship,  and  she  is  given 
sip  in  setting  up  housekeeping  by  one  of  the  French  wives 
id  by  the  services  of  a  young  “colored”  girl  (soon  to  be 
iplaced  by  a  French  housekeeper).  She  entertains  the  Indian 
omen  by  having  them  to  her  house  and  learns  to  accept 
leir  odd  behavior,  thinking  of  them  as  somewhat  strange 
lildren.  Life  does  seem  idyllic  indeed  when  one  has  the 
leans,  the  authority,  and  the  background  to  make  the  most 
f  the  wilderness. 

But  the  wilderness  has  surprises  in  store  for  this  daugh- 
;r  of  New  England.  When  she  decides  to  travel  to  Chicago 
1  March  across  the  prairie  (not  a  great  distance  but  the 
irect  route  can’t  be  taken  in  winter)  she  has  little  notion 
f  what  the  elements  and  man’s  vulnerability  will  cost 
er.  They  travel  on  horseback  and  the  horses  are  forced 
)  swim  streams  filled  with  cakes  of  ice.  She  herself  is 
ot  dressed  for  the  harshness  of  travel  on  the  winter  prairie, 
eeing  the  dangers  ahead,  her  husband  wants  to  turn 
ack,  but  she  insists  on  going  forward.  Directions  are 


obscure  or  confused,  houses  far  apart,  and  landmarks  almost 
invisible;  even  the  guide  doesn’t  know  the  way.  Despite  the 
hospitality  offered  along  the  way  by  a  succession  of  women 
in  isolated  farmhouses,  the  unexpected  cold,  snowfalls, 
storms,  desolation  and  frozen  rivers  combine  to  turn  the  trip 
into  a  nightmare.  The  prairie  is  not  so  easily  conquered. 

A  major  theme  threading  its  way  through  this  narrative 
is  the  isolation  of  women  on  the  frontier.  The  first  house 
that  greets  them  is  run  by  a  woman  in  a  tidy  calico  dress 
and  shabby  silk  cap,  the  wife  of  a  miner  and  the  only  woman 
among  a  group  of  rough  and  uncouth  men.  The  next  neigh¬ 
bors  are  the  Kellogs  (25  miles  away)  in  a  comfortable  man¬ 
sion,  by  contrast.  Here  a  respectable  matron  from  New  York 
offers  an  excellent  dinner  and  warm  hospitality,  but  is  also 
isolated  from  other  women.  At  the  Dixons’  home,  a  nice 
supper  is  served  in  a  comfortable  setting;  when  they  lose 
their  way  in  the  Winnegabo  Swamp,  a  squaw  takes  them 
to  her  lodge  and  feeds  them  while  a  storm  rages  outside,  a 
deadly  hurricane  which  would  have  been  their  death.  After 
they  have  crossed  the  icy  DuPage  River  they  reach  another 
house,  Hawley’s,  where  a  good  woman  welcomes  them  and 
makes  them  comfortable.  Until  this  point  in  the  narrative, 
both  the  isolation  of  women  and  the  absolute  necessity  that 
women  make  the  prairie  habitable  and  humane  are  indirectly 
stated  and  shown  but  not  made  explicit.  But  at  their  last 
stopping  place  before  Chicago,  the  young  Mrs.  Lawton  com¬ 
plains  bitterly  of  loneliness;  and  “having  been  ’brought  out 
there  into  the  woods’  which  was  a  thing  she  had  not  expected 
when  she  came  from  the  East”  (p.  143).  Upon  being  com¬ 
forted  and  told  things  will  improve,  she  responds  that  she 
has  no  intention  of  waiting  but  will  return  east  unless  some 
of  her  young  friends  are  in vited  to  come  and  stay  with  her. 

It  is  not  at  all  surprising  that,  having  at  last  reached 
the  safety  of  Chicago  and  the  Kinzie  homestead,  Juliette 
Kinzie  is  the  wonder  and  admiration  of  the  family  for  all 
the  dangers  she  has  seen.  Nor  that  she  decides  to  stay  several 
months  in  the  bosom  of  this  protecting  family. 

Difficult  journeys  did  not  always  end  in  happy  home¬ 
coming.  A  short  journal  written  by  a  young  woman  who 
journeyed  by  wagon  from  Keene,  Ohio  to  Illinois  in  1837 
reflects  the  physical  difficulties,  uncertainties,  illnesses,  and 
discouragements  of  those  moving  west  in  search  of  new 
homes.  Their  mode  of  transportation  in  this  case  was  the 
covered  wagon  or  “prairie  schooner.”  Mary  Parkinson’s 
“Travels  in  Western  America  in  1837”  is  a  marvel  in  part 
at  least  because  of  her  ability  to  stop  and  reflect  upon  the 
difficulties  she  was  experiencing  as  part  of  the  “emigrant 
train”  making  its  way  into  the  frontier,  and  to  frame  these 
reflections  in  the  form  of  letters  to  a  sister  back  in  Vermont. 
The  departure  is  a  reluctant  one,  as  was  so  often  the  case 
with  women.  She  travels  with  her  older  sister’s  family  and 
six  other  teams.  The  large  number  of  families  travelling 
together,  and  particularly  the  number  of  children  (“most  too 
many  for  my  comfort”),  while  reassuring,  is  also  cumber¬ 
some  and  prevents  the  train  from  making  much  progress. 
On  a  normal  day  (not  that  there  were  “normal”  days)  they 
progress  only  10  or  12  miles.  Twenty-five  head  of  cattle 
accompanied  them,  and  the  train  is  slowed  often  by  having 


i 

t 

( 


85 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


to  wait  for  the  cattle.  Fatigue  and  illness  follow  them 
throughout  the  journey;  rain  and  mud,  hills  and  rivers  are 
ail  obstacles  that  slow  them  down.  There  are  days  when  “it 
seems  I  can’t  stand  it  though”  and  “I  think  now  I  would 
never  go  by  land  again  on  no  account.” 

Mary  finds  herself  doing  the  work  of  men,  as  well  as 
tending  to  the  sick  and  preparing  meals.  “1  think  I  shall 
learn  how  to  drive  by  the  time  1  get  there,  through  thick 
and  thin  we  go;”  (p.  514);  (driving  through  you  can’t  imagine 
how  much  praise  I  get.  I  fear  it  will  make  me  vain”  (p.  515). 

By  July  14th  they  have  arrived  in  Edgar  County, 
Illinois  (four  weeks  after  they  started).  Her  sister  is  still 
sick  and  in  much  pain.  They  ought  to  have  been  to  their 
destination  by  now.  “I  fear  we  shall  all  be  sick  before  we 
get  there,  it  is  so  very  hot.  I  shan’t  complain  as  long  as 
I  can  stand  up”  (p.  515). 

Despite  more  mud  holes  and  wagons  getting  stuck, 
getting  lost  travelling  through  prairie  and  timber,  wallowing 
around  in  the  prairie  grass,  “sometimes  as  high  as  the  horses 
back”  and  the  infernal  “musquetoes,”  she  is  impressed  by 
the  land;  “The  Prairies  look  fine,  many  kinds  of  flowers 
grow  on  them — and  Prairie  hens  live  on  them,  one  of  the 
company  shot  one”  (p.  515).  Driving  across  the  prairies, 
they  encounter  no  houses  “nor  shan’t  till  we  get  across,  we 
carry  our  water  to  drink”  and  alternate  between  prairie  and 
timber  land,  until  finally  “We  all  feel  as  though  we  should 
never  get  rested  again.” 

Mrs.  Rebecca  Burlend’s  account  of  her  emigration  from 
Yorkshire,  England  to  Western  Illinois  (near  Quincy)  begins 
in  despair  and  ends  in  triumph.  Deeply  reluctant  to  emigrate 
from  her  English  home  and  to  leave  behind  two  grown 
children,  Mrs.  Burlend,  nevertheless,  feels  that  “obedience 
to  my  husband’s  wishes  left  me  [no]  alternative”  (p.  7). 
They  determine  on  Pike  County,  Illinois,  only  because  of 
letters  sent  back  to  Yorkshire  by  one  of  their  own  neighbors 
who  has  settled  there.  With  her  husband  and  five  children, 
this  peasant  woman,  unlearned  and  knowing  little  of  the 
world  outside  her  small  village,  embarks  on  a  journey  half¬ 
way  around  the  world  on  the  faith  of  a  few  letters  and  a 
belief  in  God’s  Providence.  When  her  husband  expresses 
fear  before  they  embark  on  a  long  and  arduous  sea  journey, 
she  feels  it  her  duty  to  practice  “Self-denial”  and  to  bear  up 
his  sinking  spirits,  to  urge  him  in  with  their  plans,  although 
it  is  the  last  thing  she  herself  wants.  As  steerage  passengers 
on  the  vessel  “Home“  bound  for  New  Orleans,  they  en¬ 
counter  crowded  conditions  in  steerage  (sharing  the  cooking 
fire  with  “half-a-dozen  sturdy  rustics”)  a  storm  at  sea,  a  fire 
on  board,  a  son  almost  falling  overboard,  and  great  tedium. 
She  nevertheless  also  sees  beauty  and  grandeur  on  the  sea, 
and  manages  to  find,  among  the  other  passengers,  a  little 
community  of  friends  who  help  her  through  her  “heartsick¬ 
ness.”  After  more  than  two  months  on  board  the  “Home,” 
the  vessel  arrives  in  New  Orleans,  where  the  family  disem¬ 
barks,  only  to  face  another  journey  of  1300  miles  up  the 
Misssissippi  to  St.  Louis.  From  St.  Louis,  the  journey  to 
Phillips’  Ferry  in  Pike  County  is  120  miles,  but  when  they 
arrive  there  is  desolation:  no  building,  no  landing  place,  no 
neighbor  to  greet  them,  only  the  dark  woods  in  mid- 


November.  They  have  travelled  7,000  miles  to  reach  this| 
emptiness.  “Is  this  America?”  they  cry  out.  Leaving  her 
alone  with  the  five  children,  ,Mr.  Burlend  goes  in  search  ol 
life  and  eventually  finds  some  help. 

The  rest  of  the  narrative  records  their  primitive  life-; 
style  in  a  log  cabin,  the  purchase  of  land  from  the  U.S. 
government  (at  $100  for  80  acres),  the  backbreaking  work 
that  must  go  into  clearing  and  preparing  the  land  for  planting, 
and  their  adjustment  to  life  in  the  wilderness.  Mrs.  Burlend 
must  learn  to  kill  and  butcher  cattle,  help  her  husband  plant 
winter  com,  build  American-style  fences  around  their  prop¬ 
erty,  make  their  own  soap  and  candles,  learn  the  intricate 
barter  system  of  the  area  by  means  of  which  they  can  gel 
food  and  materials  for  survival,  and  make  their  own  furni¬ 
ture.  There  is  not  much  time  for  voicing  regret,  but  it  it 
prominent  in  her  thinking.  When  thunderstorms  and  hordes 
of  mosquitoes  attack,  when  no  church  is  available,  wher 
the  food  supply  is  limited  and  monotonous,  when  they  plant 
without  a  plow  or  team  of  horses  but  have  to  use  hoes — the 
new  world  seems  anything  but  the  Golden  Land  they  hac 
been  promised.  Yet  there  is  time  for  her  to  admire  the  “virgir 
loveliness  of  nature”  and  to  regret  the  bringing  into  captivit) 
of  what  had  been  free. 

Despite  the  initial  hardships  (including  her  husband’; 
serious  leg  injury  just  as  the  wheat  ripens,  leaving  Mrs 
Burlend  and  her  ten-year  old  son  to  harvest  three  acres  o 
wheat  by  hand),  the  family  survives.  She  begins  to  set 
advantages  to  the  new  country:  the  weather  is  better  for  he; 
health;  the  soil  is  rich  and  needs  no  fertilizer;  they  can  afforc 
to  buy  four  more  acres,  a  plow,  a  few  cattle,  and  somt 
shoes  for  the  coming  winter. 

As  a  woman,  Mrs.  Burlend  encounters  still  other  prob 
lems:  she  must  continue  working  in  the  fields  while  pregnan 
with  twins;  she  has  few  women  friends  or  neighbors  to  helj 
her;  when  her  husband  or  children  fall  ill  with  ague  and  he 
child  is  seriously  burned,  she  must  minister  to  them  witl 
home  remedies;  there  are  few  oppxtrtunities  for  socializing 
or  religious  meetings,  for  meeting  the  spiritual  and  aestheti* 
needs  of  her  character.  Her  advice  to  other  emigrants  is  tha 
industry  and  perseverance  are  unremitting — and  land  an( 
cattle  the  reward  for  numberless  anxieties  and  privations 
Clearly,  this  land  is  not  for  everyone. 

Not  all  was  bleak,  however,  in  the  westward  migration 
and  in  fact,  some  women  were  so  enamoured  of  the  experi 
ence  that  they  returned  east  to  write  "promotional”  literatun 
to  lure  more  women  out  to  the  frontier.  Such  was  the  cast 
of  Eliza  Famham.  A  native  of  New  York,  she  was  involvet 
in  prison  reform  and  abolitionism,  and  was  an  advocate  o 
the  theory  of  female  biological  and  moral  superiority,  whicl 
she  argued  in  her  major  work.  Woman  and  Her  Era  ( 1 864). 

She  went  to  live  in  Illinois  at  the  age  of  20  and  fount 
that  the  life  in  the  wilderness  offered  her  (and  most  women 
freedom  and  emancipation  not  readily  available  in  the  cor 
rupt  east.  Not  many  women  could  appreciate  these  advan 
tages,  however.  “Very  many  ladies  are  so  unfortunate  as  tt 
have  had  their  minds  thoroughly  distorted  from  all  true  ant 
natural  modes  of  action  by  an  artificial  and  pernicious  cours' 
of  education,  or  the  influence  of  a  false  social  position 


86 


ley  cannot  endure  the  sudden  and  complete  transition 
lich  is  forced  upon  them  by  emigration  to  the  West”  (p.  V). 
ch  women,  she  argues,  should  not  migrate.  But  her  own 
perience  was  quite  different  and  “when  compelled  to  re- 
Ti  to  the  crowded  and  dusty  marts  of  the  East,  I  did  so 
th  many  and  deep  regrets”  (p.V). 

Famham  is  thus  one  of  the  first  women  to  undertake 
)motional  writing  about  the  West.  Her  responsiveness  to 
;  West  expressed  itself  in  terms  of  the  landscape  itself 
lich  beckoned  to  her  as  “a  strong  and  generous  parent.” 
e  found  in  the  prairies  a  kind  of  natural  garden,  the  trees 
d  shrubs  seeming  to  be  “companions”  during  the  early 
ars  of  settlement.  Her  book  offers  the  would-be  emigrant 
tails  of  frontier  life  that  might  be  of  use:  medicinal  lore, 
mate,  geography,  flora  and  fauna,  domestic  arts  of  the 
intier.  In  addition,  she  holds  out  to  the  woman  emigrant 
promise  of  “neatness  and  order”  with  fewer  artificial 
curies  than  they  have  in  the  East,  so  that  they  may  better 
lue  the  virtues  of  cleanliness,  order  and  self-respect.  As 
inette  Kolodny  points  out  in  her  analysis  of  Famham’s  text, 
‘invoked  a  fantasy  of  family.  ...  in  the  physical  facts  of 
;  Illinois  prairies,  and  it  cast  her  and  her  prospective 
ider-settlers  not  as  mothers  to  an  infant  colony  but  as 
e  sons  and  daughters  of  this  land’”  (p.  103.)  Famham 
ites,  “This  great  and  generous  land.  .  .presents  itself 
my  mind  in  the  light  of  strong  and  generous  parents 
lose  arms  are  spread  to  extend  protection,  happiness 
d  life”  (pp.  iii-iv).  Kolodny  suggests  too  that  in  the 
inois  prairie  Famham  saw  elements  of  the  Adamic  theme 
paradise  regained,  which  she  embodies  in  the  narrative 
her  sister  and  brother-in-law’s  journey  to  Illinois  as  a 
wly  married  pair:  “the  first  pair”  in  a  “new  creation” 
“files  of  earnest  men,  with  hard  hands  and  severe, 
Iculating  faces”  (p.  105)  moving  to  Illinois  from  the 
St,  she  does  encourage  women  to  emigrate  to  Illinois 
terms  which  make  the  prospect  more  than  appealing, 
rnham  married  a  year  after  arriving  in  Illinois  and  had 
:hild  there,  in  1837.  Her  enthusiasm  never  waned.  II- 
lois  offered  women  a  “larger  liberty  than  you  have  else- 
lere  known  it”  (pp.  172-3);  it  promised  “social  and 
ysical  freedom.  .  .in  their  most  enlarged  forms”  (p. 
);  nature  there  offered  lessons  that  are  “purifying,  en- 
bling  and  elevating”  (p.  iv).  It  was  a  kind  of  paradise 
r  women. 

Illinois  women  novelists  also  undertook  to  explore  the 
es  of  pioneer  women.  Lucy  Ford’s  Female  Robinson 
usoe  (1837)  (published  anonymously)  is  set  in  southern 
inois  around  1820.  The  heroine  is  lost  in  the  forest  at  age 
le  and  lives  on  her  own,  much  like  her  namesake,  until 
e  is  rescued  ten  years  later.  For  a  time  she  has  her  own 
fiday”  but  he  is  captured  by  Indians  and  she  must  fend 
r  herself,  until  he  rescues  her.  The  story  clearly  reflects 
Oman’s  fears  of  being  cast  adrift  in  the  wilderness  to  which 
ly  had  been  brought. 

Eliza  Ann  W.  Hopkins’  Ella  Lincoln:  or.  Western 
airie  Life.  An  Autobiography  (1857)  while  insisting 
at  is  “true”  is  generally  classified  as  fiction,  perhaps  be- 
use  its  text  seems  highly  exaggerated.  The  story  of  a 


young  woman  who  marries  against  her  family’s  wishes  and 
moves  to  Mariette,  Illinois,  it  registers  an  almost  unending 
series  of  misfortunes  and  torments  which  plague  the  pair, 
including  business  failures,  foreclosures  on  their  farm,  the 
death  of  their  son,  and  other  tribulations  which  drive  the 
heroine  to  the  brink  of  despair. 

And  Sophronia  Currier’s  The  Trapper’ s Niece :  A  Sketch 
of  Western  Life  ( 1 87 1 )"  set  in  a  northern  Illinois  community, 
concerns  a  plot  to  deprive  a  young  orphan  woman  of  her 
land  holdings,  her  rightful  inheritance.  Taking  place  in  the 
1830s,  it  reflects  problems  encountered  by  early  settlers  in 
obtaining  clear  title  to  their  land,  a  problem  complicated  by 
the  fact  of  being  a  woman  alone. 

3.  THE  WOMAN  TRAVELER  IN  ILLINOIS 

In  reviewing  the  travel  literature  of  women,  both 
foreign  and  domestic,  who  had  reason  to  plan  trips  which 
included  Illinois  from  the  1830s  to  the  1880s,  one  finds  a 
variety  of  motives  (not  usually  ill-health)  attitudes,  expecta¬ 
tions,  and  receptions  given  these  travelers,  and  they  do  cast 
light  upon  what  those  years  were  like  for  women  for  whom 
Illinois  was  not  a  permanent  home,  but  a  temporary  resting 
place.  Their  perspectives  and  insights  are  of  interest  to  the 
student  of  Illinois  history.  Not  all  of  the  women  commented 
on  the  status  and  roles  of  women  they  encountered.  This 
depended  partly  on  their  original  intention — whether  to  sell 
travel  books  or  to  dissect  the  social  communities  of  which 
they  were  temporarily  a  part. 

The  earliest  account  of  travel  in  Illinois  by  a  prominent 
woman  traveler  is  Harriet  Martineau’s  Society  in  America, 
which  only  has  a  few  pages  addressing  the  time  she  spent 
in  Illinois,  while  a  longer  portion  analyzes  the  condition  of 
women  in  America  as  a  whole.  In  1836,  she  made  a  trip  to 
the  Northwest,  visited  Chicago,  and  took  a  short  side-trip 
across  the  prairies  to  Joliet.  Like  many  of  the  pioneer  women 
before  her,  and  the  settler  and  travelers  to  come,  she  was 
struck  by  the  beauty  of  the  prairie,  the  profusion  of  flowers, 
the  peace  and  tranquility  offered  by  the  landscape:  “We 
jolted  on  for  two  miles  and  a  half  through  the  woods,  admir¬ 
ing  the  scarlet  lillies,  and  the  pink  and  white  moccasin 
flower,  which  was  brilliant”  (p.  34). 

To  the  lives  of  women  on  the  prairie  she  is  particularly 
sensitive.  While  the  men  are  building  a  temporary  bridge 
across  a  stream,  12  passengers  descend  upon  the  home  of 
a  neighboring  woman:  “It  must  have  been  vexatious  to  her 
to  have  her  floor  made  wet  and  dirty,  and  all  her  household 
operations  disturbed  by  a  dozen  strangers  whom  she  had 
never  invited.  She  let  us  have  some  dough-nuts,  and  gave 
us  a  gracious  glance  or  two  at  parting”  (p.  34).  Later,  when 
they  arrive  wet  and  bedraggled  at  the  hotel  in  Joliet,  where 
all  the  rooms  are  taken,  the  exhausted  party  is  prepared  to 
take  refuge  in  a  bam.  “We  were  prevented  however,  from 
all  practising  the  freak  by  the  prompt  hospitality  of  our 
hostess.  Before  we  knew  what  she  was  about,  she  had  risen 
and  dressed  herself,  put  clean  sheets  on  her  own  bed,  and 
made  up  two  others  on  the  floor  of  the  same  room;  so  that 


I 

* 


I 


87 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


the  ladies  and  Charley  were  luxuriously  accommo¬ 
dated..  .  When  we  made  our  acknowledgement  to  our  hostess, 
she  said  she  thought  that  people  who  could  go  to  bed  quietly 
every  night  ought  to  be  ready  to  give  up  to  tired  travelers" 
(p.  43).  With  such  sacrifices  and  hospitality  by  prairie 
women  we  have  come  to  be  familiar,  for  this  was  a  fact  of 
life  on  the  lonely  and  desolate  prairie. 

Fredrika  Bremer,  like  Martineau  a  prolific  writer,  came 
from  Sweden  for  a  tour  of  the  United  States  in  1 849,  a  frail, 
middle-aged  spinster  intent  on  studying  the  new  world.  Her 
tales  of  Swedish  domestic  life  were  quite  popular,  but  in 
the  184()s  she  developed  an  interest  in  social  reform.  Her 
two  years  of  travel  in  the  United  States,  mainly  on  her  own, 
resulted  in  the  publication  of  Homes  of  the  New  World: 
Impressions  of  America  (1853).  ” 

Traveling  alone  to  the  West  by  steamer  across  Lake 
Michigan,  she  feels  “quite  alone  in  that  great  unknown  West” 
but  soon  is  taken  in  by  “Handsome,  kind  people... [who] 
offered  me  house,  and  home,  and  friendship  and  every  good 
thing”  (p.  601).  Her  impressions  of  the  prairie  mirror  those 
of  Martineau,  but  are  more  lyrical;  “The  sun-bright  soil 
remained  here  still  in  its  primeval  greatness  and  magnifi¬ 
cence,  unchecked  by  human  hands,  covered  with  its  flowers, 
protected  and  watched  alone  by  the  eye  of  the  sun"  (p.  602). 
But  in  visiting  the  log  house  on  the  plain  and  in  questioning 
an  old  woman  about  the  solitude  of  the  prairie,  she  is  told 
it  is  monotonous.  “Nevertheless,  I  would  try  it  for  a  year,” 
she  concludes  (p.  603). 

Like  Martineau,  she  is  treated  to  the  hospitality  of  the 
Kinzies  and  to  a  reading  of  the  narrative  written  by  Mrs. 
Kinzie,  including  the  captivity  narrative  of  the  elder  Mrs. 
Kinzie  and  of  the  lives  of  the  first  colonists  in  Chicago. 
Like  Martineau,  too,  she  is  not  impressed  by  either  the 
physical  appearance  of  the  city  (“Chicago  is  one  of  the  most 
miserable  and  ugly  cities  which  I  have  yet  seen  in  America, 
and  is  very  little  deserving  of  its  name.  Queen  of  the  Lake”) 
nor  of  its  “spirit”:  “The  city  seems  for  the  most  part  to 
consist  of  shops.... And  it  seems  as  if,  on  all  hands,  people 
came  here  merely  to  trade,  to  make  money,  and  not  to  live” 
(p.  605).  Yet  she  too  finds  some  of  the  most  agreeable  and 
delightful  people  she  has  ever  met. 

Seeking  out  her  fellow  countrymen,  she  recounts  the 
story  of  several  Swedes  now  residing  in  Chicago  whose 
previous  years  in  Wisconsin  were  unsuccessful  and  sterile. 
“Captain  Schneidan  was  then  lying  on  his  sick-bed  with  an 
injury  of  the  leg.... His  handsome  young  wife  had  been 
obliged,  during  that  severe  winter,  to  do  the  most  menial 
work;  had  seen  her  first-born  little  one  frozen  to  death  in 
its  bed  in  the  room,  into  which  snow  and  rain  found  entrance. 
And  they  were  in  the  midst  of  the  wilderness  alone”  (p. 
607).  She  quotes  from  Margaret  Fuller’s  earlier  accounts  of 
this  same  family:  “His  beautiful  young  wife  was  his  only 
attendant  and  nurse;  as  well  as  farm-house  keeper;  and  how 
well  she  performed  hard  and  unaccustomed  duties,  the  ob¬ 
jects  of  her  care  showed”  (p.  608). 

She  visits  also  with  Uneonius,  minister  of  a  Swedish 
congregation  in  Chicago,  and  his  wife,  formerly  of  Upsala. 
“That  gay,  high-spirited  girl.,  .had  gone  through  severe  trials 


of  sickness,  want  and  sorrow.  She  had  laid  four  children  to 
rest  in  foreign  soil.  She  had  one  boy  remaining.  She  was 
still  pretty,  still  young,  but  her  cheerfulness — that  was  gone; 
and  her  fresh,  courageous  spirit  was  changed  into  quiet 
patience"  (p.  609). 

In  Galena,  she  enjoys  solitary  rambles  over  the  hills; 
feeling  “serene  and  vigorous  by  the  Mississippi... with  the 
Great  West  open  before  me,  with  a  rich  future,  and  the 
whole  world  bright!”  A  trip  to  Rock  Island,  some  news  of 
the  Swedish  settlement  of  Bishop  Hill  (which  she  declines 
to  visit)  and  a  trip  down  the  Mississippi,  past  Nauvoo  and 
heading  for  St.  Louis,  completes  her  trip  to  Illinois.  Along 
the  way  she  ponders  the  slavery  question;  the  great  variety 
of  peoples  inhabiting  the  Great  West  (Scandinavians,  Mor¬ 
mons,  fanatics,  gamblers,  murderers  and  thieves,  worship¬ 
pers  of  freedom  and  communists,  slave-owners  and  slaves, 
clear-headed,  strong  and  pious  men)  and  of  the  potential 
for  greatness  as  well  as  for  depravity  in  this  place. 

A  professional  travel  writer  who  wrote  letters  and  kept 
a  journal,  Isabella  Lucy  Bird,  visited  the  United  States  andi 
Canada  as  a  young  woman  of  23  and  two  years  later  pub¬ 
lished  The  English-woman  in  America  (1856).  She  is 
thrilled,  on  a  train  trip  through  Indiana  and  Illinois,  by  the 
sight  of  traders  and  hunters,  diggers  and  trappers;  she' 
notices,  as  a  young  woman  would,  how  tall,  handsome  and' 
broad-chested  they  are.  But  in  Chicago,  she  is  housed  in  a 
disgustingly  dirty  "advertising  house”  (the  two  best  hotels 
being  full);  in  the  ladies’  parlor  are  many  women  who  disgust 
her;  “two  Irish  emigrants  were  seated  on  the  floor  (which 
swarmed  with  black  beetles  and  ants),  undressing  a  scream¬ 
ing  child;  a  woman  evidently  in  a  fever  w  as  tossing  restlessly' 
on  a  sofa;  two  females  in  tarnished  Bloomer  habili-'  > 

I 

ments...and  other  extra-ordinar>’  looking  human  beings 
filled  the  room”  (p.  148).  She  is  forced  to  share  a  bedroom 
with  three  women  who  are  affectionately  nursing  a  sick 
child  and  refuses;  she  is  given  her  own  room  but  it  makes 
her  ill.  She  leaves  Chicago  that  very  night.  Earlier  at  ; 
dinner  in  the  hotel  she  notes  with  distaste  the  number  ot 
emigrants  present  and  the  "two  Bloomers  in  very  poor 
green  habiliments  [who]  sat  opposite  to  me.  and  did  not  . 
appear  to  attract  any  attention,  though  Bloomerism  is  hap¬ 
pily  defunct  in  the  States”  (p.  150).  She  is  favorabld  i 
impressed  that  the  presence  of  the  ladies  is  a  restraint  i 
upon  manners  and  conversation.  Females  are  treated  with 
deferential  respect,  whatever  age  or  rank.  She  approves  ' 
of  Western  man:  bold,  reckless  and  independent,  ready  - 
to  fight  a  foe  or  wait  upon  a  woman  and  children.  j 

In  1879.  another  Englishwoman.  Lady  Duffus  Hardy 
a  well-known  novelist,  came  to  the  United  States  anc  ' 
traveled  extensively,  visiting  nearly  every  state  in  the  Union  ^ 
She  published  two  books,  one  of  w  hich  recounts  her  visits 
to  Illinois — Through  Cities  and  Prairie  Lands.  (1881)  9 
Her  accommodations  in  a  Pullman  car  are  luxurious,  quite 
a  far  cry  from  the  uncomfortable  stage  coach  and  steamboa  • 
voyages  of  earlier  travelers:  "Our  comtortable,  velvet- 
cushioned  section  turned  into  a  cosy  sleeping  place;  sofj 
mattresses,  snowy  sheets,  and  warm,  gaily  striped  blankets 
are  extracted  from  behind  the  ornamental  panels  overhead 


I 


88 


;he  curtains  are  let  down;  and  lo!  we  may  go  to  our  rest  as 
»oon  as  we  please”  (p.  73).  The  only  fault  she  finds  with 
:his  mode  of  travel  is  the  paucity  of  dressing-rooms  with  “a 
tvhole  army  of  dishevelled  females,  armed  with  tooth¬ 
brushes,  sponges,  etc.  besieging  the  four-foot  space  called 
the  ladies  dressing-room’”  (p.  75).  In  Chicago,  she  is  well- 
■eceived  at  the  palatial  Palmer  House.  She  sees  the  aftermath 
bf  the  fire  which  “marred  and  scarred  the  beauty  of  that  fair 
:ity”  but  finds  few  traces  of  it:  “Phoenixlike,  the  city  had 
■isen  up  out  of  its  own  ashes,  grander  and  statelier  than 
:ver”  (p.  77). 

Among  the  eastern  American  women  who  visited  II- 
inois,  certainly  the  most  prominent  and  intellectually  gifted 
vas  Sarah  Margaret  Fuller.  Already  known  in  the  East  as 
1  writer  and  teacher  of  prominence,  a  co-editor  of  The  Dial, 
ind  a  friend  of  Emerson  and  Hawthorne,  Miss  Fuller  accom- 
banied  friends  in  a  tour  of  Niagara,  Detroit,  Mackinac  and 
Chicago,  and  across  the  Illinois  prairies  in  1843.  Her  book, 
Summer  on  the  Lakes  is  still  considered  the  best  of  its 
cind.  When  Fuller  casts  her  sharp  eye  critically  upon  the 
ives  of  women  in  Illinois,  she  has  several  cogent  comments: 
‘The  great  drawback  upon  the  lives  of  these  settlers,  at 
bresent,  is  the  unfitness  of  the  women  for  their  new  lot.  It 
las  generally  been  the  choice  of  the  men,  and  the  women 
ollow,  as  women  will,  doing  their  best  for  affection’s  sake, 
but  too  often  in  heartsickness  and  weakness”  (p.  61). 
A^omen,  she  continues,  can  rarely  find  aid  for  domestic 
abor;  thus,  sick  or  well,  the  mother  and  daughters  must 
berform  all  tasks,  most  of  which  a  city  education  has  not 
>iven  them  strength  of  skill  for.  Among  the  poorer  settlers 
his  situation  results  in  the  women  becoming  “slatterns”; 
itruggling  under  every  disadvantage,  it  is  almost  impossible 
or  them  to  stay  “neat.” 

Furthermore,  their  resources  for  pleasure  are  fewer  than 
hose  for  men:  they  have  not  learned  to  ride,  drive  or  row 
done;  the  culture  has  made  them  “ornaments”  and  has  not 
ihown  them  how  to  live  in  nature.  Visiting  Milwaukee,  she 
inds  that  while  the  men  enjoy  the  freedom  of  the  prairies, 
he  women  “found  their  labors  disproportioned  to  their 
itrength,  if  not  their  patience;  and,  while  their  husbands  and 
brothers  enjoyed  the  country  in  hunting  and  fishing,  they 
bund  themselves  confined  to  a  comfortless  and  laborious 
ndoor  life”  (pp.  116-117).  Hence,  she  looks  with  deep 
nterest  at  the  little  girls  growing  up  on  the  prairie  to  see  if 
hey  are  being  prepared  to  enjoy  the  western  farmer’s  life 
or  which  they  will  require  strength  of  body,  dexterity,  sim- 
ble  tastes  and  resources — all  of  which  will  have  to  “war“ 
vith  the  habits  of  thought  acquired  by  their  mothers,  whose 
itandards  of  taste  are  European  and  who  want  to  send  them 
:ast  to  school.  These  girls,  she  argues,  will  need  a  new  kind 
bf  instruction,  different  from  that  of  the  city  girl.  The  skills 
;he  will  need  are  those  of  making  a  home  comfortable  and 
beautiful;  bodily  strength  to  enjoy  exercise,  the  woods  and 
itreams;  and  a  few  studies  and  some  music  (guitar  rather 
han  piano).  Because  women  here  have  much  less  leisure 
0  play,  they  will  not  need  parties,  morning  visits  and  mil- 
iner’s  shops  such  as  are  fashionable  in  the  cities,  and  in 
’eneral,  their  need  to  imitate  Europe  will  have  come  to  an 


end,  if  they  are  to  survive  and  prosper. 

It  is  up  to  the  women.  Fuller  concludes,  to  retrieve 
Illinois  from  far  greater  errors  than  she  has  already  practiced 
and  which  have  made  her  “a  byword  of  reproach  among 
nations,  for  the  careless  prodigal  course,  by  which,  in  early 
youth,  she  has  endangered  her  honor”  (p.  104).  If  honesty, 
honor  and  elevation  in  the  tone  of  politics  and  trade  are  to 
be  developed,  the  next  generation  must  be  educated,  and  it 
is  western  women  who  must  take  on  this  responsibility. 

4.  THE  NEW  WOMAN 

It  was  the  experience  of  the  Civil  War  which  first  made 
Illinois  women  feel  their  ability  to  function  successfully 
outside  the  home  in  a  variety  of  public  domains,  but  the 
Civil  War  was  only  one  of  the  events  that  led  to  a  new  kind 
of  literary  portrayal  of  the  woman  in  the  last  decades  of  the 
19th  century  and  the  first  two  of  the  20th  century.  For  just 
as  Chicago  was  changing  with  lightning  rapidity  into  a  major 
commercial  and  manufacturing  center,  Chicago’s  women 
were  feeling  their  newly  acquired  power  and  opportunities. 
The  Columbian  Exposition  of  1893  gave  further  outlet  to 
their  need  for  self-expression;  as  did  the  beginnings  of  the 
growth  of  Chicago  as  a  literary  center,  the  growing  suffrage 
movement  around  the  country,  the  opening  up  of  universities 
to  women  students,  the  development  of  the  settlement  house 
and  other  reform  measures  in  response  to  the  growing  prob¬ 
lems  of  poverty  and  alienation  in  the  cities,  and  the  presence 
in  Chicago  of  revolutionary  labor  activity  (resulting  in  the 
Pullman  strikes,  the  Haymarket  Riots,  the  Hart,  Schaffner 
and  Marx  strikes,  and  the  great  Railway  Strikes  of  1894). 
All  of  these  are  reflected  in  the  literary  works  produced  by 
Illinois  women  in  this  most  difficult  yet  exhilarating  of  times. 
Out  of  this  cauldron  of  activity  and  unrest  there  emerged 
the  image  of  the  New  Woman — taking  on  these  challenges 
and  opportunities  and  creating  a  new  identity — different 
from  that  of  the  pioneer  woman  or  the  dedicated  nurse,  the 
farm  wife  or  the  socially  prominent  debutante  of  an  earlier 
age.  Women  began  to  define  themselves  in  terms  of  the 
historical  events  of  their  age — and  to  make  history  rather 
than  passively  to  respond  to  it. 

A  women’s  literature  emerged  out  of  this  period  which, 
while  it  shared  many  issues  with  contemporary  male  writers, 
had  significant  differences — in  that  it  concerned  itself  with 
the  articulation  of  women’s  experiences  and  with  the  quickly 
developing  changes  in  women’s  legal,  economic  and  social 
status.  Many  of  these  works  unfortunately  fall  into  the  cat¬ 
egory  of  “lost  literature.”  To  the  extent  that  most  readers 
know  of  the  significant  changes  in  women’s  lives  during 
these  years,  they  do  so  through  the  males  lenses  of  Theodore 
Dreiser’s  Sister  Carrie,  Hamlin  Garland’s  Rose  of  Dutcher' s 
Cooley,  Robert  Herrick’s  Gospel  of  Freedom,  Henry  Blake 
Fuller’s  With  the  Procession,  or  Robert  Lovett’s  A  Winged 
Victory.  The  women  who  themselves  took  on  the  task  of 
recording  and  analyzing  these  significant  changes — Elia 
Peattie  and  Edith  Wyatt,  Maude  Warren  and  Marjorie  Ben¬ 
ton  Cooke,  Charlotte  Teller  and  Susan  Glaspell,  Mary  Au- 


89 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


stin,  Alice  Gerstenbcrg,  Marion  Strobcl  and  Edna  Ferber 
have  disappeared  from  public  view  as  have  their  works. 

Theirs  are  books  which  didn’t  just  happen  to  be  written 
by  women — they  are  a  “women’s  literature”  which  purpose¬ 
fully  concerns  itself  with  the  articulation  of  women’s  experi¬ 
ence.  During  this  intensely  feminist  period  (1880-1920)  in 
England  and  America,  Chicago  and  Illinois  women  were 
seriously  at  work  interpreting  the  meaning  of  the  new 
feminist  consciousness  as  it  expressed  itself  in  the  sometimes 
frighteningly  rapid  rate  at  which  women’s  lives  were  opening 
up  to  new  opportunities. 

September  18,  1889  was  a  turning  point  in  women’s 
history  in  Illinois — it  was  the  day  on  which  a  woman  from 
Cedarville,  Illinois — one  Jane  Addams — and  her  close 
friend  Ellen  Starr,  who  had  together  toured  Europe’s  fac¬ 
tories  and  slums,  visited  Toynbee  Hall  (which  applied  Chris¬ 
tian  Socialism  to  the  needs  of  the  London  poor),  and  who 
had  decided  to  cast  their  own  lots  with  the  poor  and  neg¬ 
lected,  took  over  a  decayed  mansion  in  the  heart  of  Chicago’s 
immigrant  community  on  the  near  West  side — and  Hull 
House  opened  its  doors  to  all  who  could  be  convinced  to 
enter.  In  Chicago,  as  in  America  at  large,  the  extremes  of 
wealth  and  poverty  were  striking;  millions  of  immigrants 
poured  into  already  crowded  tenements  and  vied  for  work; 
Halsted  Street  from  the  Chicago  River  to  the  stockyards 
teemed  with  Irish,  Germans,  Russians,  Italians,  Jews,  Poles, 
and  it  was  here  that  Jane  Addams  was  determined  that  she 
would  make  a  difference.  Other  women  joined  her;  Julia 
Lathrop  and  Florence  Kelly,  Dr.  Alice  Hamilton  and  Mary 
McDowell,  Edith  and  Grace  Abbott,  Sophinisba  Breckin¬ 
ridge — and  scores  of  others.  The  story  of  how  these  women 
lived  and  worked  among  the  poorest  and  most  outcast  of 
society  is  told  simply  and  movingly  in  one  of  the  most 
important  documents  of  19th  century  Chicago  history — 
Twenty  Years  at  Hull  House. 

Hull  House  did  more  than  serve  the  downtrodden  popu¬ 
lation  of  the  West  Side;  it  awakened  a  generation  of  women 
to  their  capacity  for  service  and  for  the  career  of  social 
work.  It  gave  mainly  middle  class  and  upper  class  women 
a  focus  for  their  volunteer  energies  and  their  societal  con¬ 
cerns,  just  as  the  Civil  War  had  given  to  an  earlier  generation. 
As  early  as  1890,  women  began  recording  the  effects  of 
“social  service”  on  a  generation  of  Illinois  women.  Accord¬ 
ing  to  Lennox  Grey,  the  social  service  novel  began  appearing 
very  soon  after  the  founding  of  Hull  House  in  1889 — in 
Lillian  Sommers’  Jerome  Leaster  (1890),  Katherine  Donel- 
son’s  Rodger  Latimer’s  Mistake  (1891),  and  persisted 
through  the  1890s  in  Chatfield-Taylor’s  Two  Women  and  a 
Fool  (1895),  Fuller’s  With  the  Procession  (1895),  where 
Hull  House  and  a  working  girls’  club  play  a  critical  part,  and 
Herrick’s  Gospel  of  Freedom  ( 1898).  These  novels  of  the 
late  1890s  lean  more  and  more  to  the  theme  of  the  social 
settlement  or  other  similar  institutions  standing  tor  the 
sociological  point  of  view  rather  than  the  moral  or  religious 
(expressed  in  works  condemning  the  saloons,  such  as  Pre¬ 
served  Wheeler’s  (Mrs.  Ella  McDougall)  From  Side  Streets 
and  Boulevards  (1893). 

A  novel  which  seems  to  bridge  the  gap  between  the 


old  problem  of  “sin”  and  the  new  problem  of  modifying  the 
Puritan  conscience  to  fit  new  times  is  Lucy  Rider  Meyer’s  , 
Mary  North  (1903)  in  which  the  heroine,  the  victim  of  a 
mock  marriage  and  a  child  born  out  of  wedlock,  turns  to 
“good  works”  by  helping  the  Deaconess  sisters  found  a 
school  to  make  domestic  service  equal  to  that  of  trained 
nursing.  Meyer’s  Deaconess  Stories  ( 1 900)  ^  are  sentimental 
vignettes  or  poverty  in  the  slums  of  Chicago  in  which  two 
“angels  of  mercy”  work  to  relieve  some  of  the  suffering. 

Meyer’s  work  demonstrates  the  transition  from  the  no¬ 
tion  of  charity  as  a  religious  mission  to  that  of  the  social 
settlement  as  a  “scientific”  approach  to  social  problems,  the 
gradual  freeing  up  of  women  from  the  restrictions  of  leading 
“uplifting"  or  exemplary  lives  (defined  in  traditional  terms) 
in  order  to  render  service.  In  most  of  the  following  women’s 
novels,  there  is  relatively  little  condemnation  of  human 
faults;  rather  there  is  an  acceptance  of  human  weakness  and 
a  tendency  to  “blame”  social  and  economic  forces  for  the 
“sins"  of  the  poor  and  criminal  classes. 

By  1912  Clara  Laughlin  (a  well-known  Chicago  writer 
who  “edited  a  Chicago  journal,  turned  out  advice  columns 
for  Good  Housekeeping,  wrote  popular  novels  and  over 
twenty  travel  books,  then  ran  Clara  Laughlin  Travel  Ser¬ 
vices”)  turns  her  attention  in  The  Penny  Philanthropist: 
A  Story  That  Could  be  True  ”  to  a  kind  of  street  comer  Jane 
Addams.  Peggy,  the  Irish  proprietor  of  a  news  “emporium” 
on  Halsted  Street,  keeps  a  careful  eye  on  the  district’s  chil¬ 
dren,  the  aged,  the  troubled  and  the  about-to-be-in-trouble. 
In  a  similar  vein,  and  in  the  same  year,  Louise  Montgomery 
published  Mrs.  Mahoney  of  the  Tenement  in  which,  using 
the  broadest  of  Irish  dialects,  a  widow  of  Chicago's  Irish 
settlement  makes  it  her  business  to  know  about  and  interfere 
with  the  affairs  of  her  neighbors — whether  they  like  it  or 
not — and  with  her  circle  of  cronies  makes  sure  that  suffering 
is  allayed,  when  it  is  within  their  means  to  do  so.  But  in 
addition  to  these  “amateurs,”  a  group  of  women  was  quickly- 
developing  its  skills,  most  often  through  their  education  at 
the  University  of  Chicago.  (Here  Edith  Abbot  had  helped 
establish  a  department  of  social  research  in  the  School  of 
Civics  and  Philanthropy,  whose  “objective  was  to  relate 
social  research  to  the  professional  concerns  of  social  workers 
and  to  educate  a  group  scientifically  trained  in  the  public 
services.  She  served  as  first  Dean  of  the  new  ly  established 
School  of  Social  Science  Administration,  in  1920. 

A  novel  almost  completely  devoted  to  the  career  of  the 
newly  educated  social  worker  is  Clara  Laughlin’s  “Just 
Folks”  (1910).  Beth  Tully,  a  probation  officer  of  the 
Juvenile  Court,  “a  tiny  sprite  of  a  fair-haired  girl  with  her 
direct,  earnest  ways  and  the  sublime  sense  ot  humor  (p. 
4),  is  so  completely  dedicated  to  her  work  among  the  poor 
of  Halsted  Street  that  she  foregoes  the  opportunity  to  live 
at  Hull  House  (which  is  too  expensive  for  her),  its  luxuries, 
and  the  companionship  of  other  cultured  residents,  to  move 
into  a  small  room  in  a  house  on  Halsted  Street,  right  in  with 
the  poor  and  underprivileged.  She  reasons  that  “not  at  Hull 
House,  where  those  far  cleverer  than  she  discussed  the  poor 
as  a  theorem  or  worked  with  the  poor  as  a  class,  in  a  large, 
systematic  way,  could  she  come  to  such  knowledge  ot  the 


tl 


90 


)or  as  she  sought”  (p.  4).  She  has  also  decided  that,  despite 
;r  attachment  to  Hart  Ferris,  a  young  journalist,  marriage 
to  be  put  off  for  the  present,  until  a  time  when  “her  intense 
terest  in  other  people’s  homes  and  lives  and  loves  had 
aned  sufficiently  to  permit  her  to  care  exclusively,  for  a 
hile  at  least,  about  a  home  and  life  and  love  of  her  own” 

.  5).  Other  feminist  aspects  of  the  novel  surface  as  Beth 
:comes  deeply  involved  in  the  lives  of  the  19th  Ward 
sidents,  particularly  that  of  her  landlady  Liza,  an  elderly 
ish  seamstress  who  has  spent  her  life  providing  for  a  no- 
)od  brother,  foregoing  marriage,  and  still  (after  his  death) 
lying  off  the  bills  for  his  elaborate  funeral.  And  there  is 
ary  Casey,  the  long-suffering  Irish  mother  of  9,  married 
a  shiftless  husband  whose  life  consists  of  one  long  excuse 
r  avoiding  work,  who  steals  from  the  family  when  neces- 
ry,  but  for  whom  Mary  continues  to  have  affection  and 
impassion.  Beth’s  work  is  on  behalf  of  the  children  who 
e  mistreated  by  poverty,  too  much  responsibility,  neglect 
id  beatings;  and  of  the  women  who  are  overworked,  mis¬ 
dated,  ignorant  of  their  rights,  responsible  for  too  many 
lildren,  or  living,  like  Liza,  alone  and  vulnerable,  barely 
ling  out  a  subsistence  life  by  renting  out  rooms.  Beth’s 
itivities  center  on  the  Casey  family  and  on  attempts  to 
ave“  the  16  year-old  daughter  who  goes  to  work  at  12 
;ars  old  as  the  family’s  main  breadwinner,  but  is  threaten- 
g  to  “go  bad”  out  of  despair  and  overwork,  in  revolt 
'ainst  the  poverty  and  deprivation  she  has  always  known, 
le  does  in  fact  allow  herself  to  be  seduced  by  a  neighbor¬ 
ed  pimp  who  promises  her  a  career  as  an  actress — but 
eth  is  able  to  bring  her  home  again  without  major  damage, 
le  is  also  able  to  intervene  to  “save”  the  oldest  boy  Mikey 
om  reform  school  and  a  life  of  crime,  by  giving  him  the 
jportunity  for  a  respectable  job. 

Women  in  the  community  are  the  nurturers  and  sur- 
vors  as  well  as  the  victims  of  male  irresponsibility  and 
eptitude.  When  Mary  Casey’s  husband  finally  takes  a  job 
;  a  stone  cutter  in  the  mines,  he  becomes  a  victim  of  an 
xident  there,  and  Mary  raises  his  memory  to  that  of  “hero” 
order  to  give  her  children  some  pride  in  him.  But  when 
le  declares  “I’m  the  man  o’  this  family,  now”  (p.  225), 
le  is  only  stating  what  is  already  the  case  and  has  always 
:en.  For  it  is  Mary  whose  faith  and  toil  have  kept  them 
igether,  and  she  comes  to  dominate  the  novel.  So,  too, 
iza,  her  own  support  for  most  of  her  life,  believes  that  a 
Oman  of  spirit  doesn’t  have  to  be  married  to  get  along, 
though  she  succumbs  in  her  old  age  to  a  companiable 
larriage  to  an  old  beau,  who,  now  down  and  out,  is  equally 
ipendent  on  her  as  was  her  brother.  Mary  Casey’s  analysis 
that  women  want  men  only  for  the  opportunity  to  “tame” 
lem  and  reduce  them  to  a  state  of  decency.  And  Liza  agrees 
lat  “Men  wa’n’t  made  t’  dream  about;  they  was  made 
develop  woman’s  Christian  character”  (p.  261). 

And  women,  it  would  seem,  were  made  to  provide 
)r  themselves  and  their  children  and  to  improve  the  world, 
/hen  Mary  and  Angela  are  called  upon  to  “finger”  the 
erpetrators  of  Angel’s  disgrace,  in  spite  of  their  fear  and 
iiame  they  agree  to  go  to  court  to  expose  the  evil-doers. 
'Cth  is  astounded  at  their  courage  and  raises  Mary  to  the 


level  of  heroine.  She  sees  in  Mary  “a  poverty  ridden 
woman  who  could  not  read  her  name.  .  .making  for  hu¬ 
manity  a  bigger  sacrifice  than  humanity  could  ever  com¬ 
prehend”  (p.  338). 

Beth’s  reverence  for  Jane  Addams  is  based  on  her  prin¬ 
ciple  that  the  reason  for  being  there  is  “not.  .  .so  much  to 
teach  as  to  learn.”  This  is  also  Beth’s  principle  of  behavior. 
But  it  is  not  always  what  inspires  Addams’  “disciples”  and 
others  who  come  to  Hull  House,  especially  from  Lake  Shore 
Drive.  Beth  is  skeptical  of  those  dabblers  and  dilettantes 
and  the  benefit  they  can  be  to  the  19th  Ward.  Nevertheless, 
she  encourages  one  of  them,  a  lovely  but  melancholy  widow 
of  means,  (once  she  has  convinced  herself  that  Eleanor  will 
not  offer  the  wrong  thing  in  the  wrong  way  and  kill  the 
self-respect  of  the  residents),  to  assist  a  young  crippled 
Jewish  girl  of  the  ghetto  who  longs  to  be  an  artist,  and  to 
whom  Eleanor  can  open  opportunities  that  would  never  have 
been  available. 

Throughout  the  novel,  then,  we  have  examples  of 
women  assisting  women  in  improving  their  lives,  de¬ 
monstrating  strength  and  resiliency  and  the  ability  to  rise 
above  deprivation  and  poverty  to  achieve  self-respect.  While 
Laughlin  does  not  make  explicitly  “feminist”  pronounce¬ 
ments  in  the  novel  (and  ends  it  with  a  traditional  marriage), 
the  seeds  are  planted  for  those  to  come. 

Elia  Peattie  seems  to  have  taken  up  where  Laughlin 
left  off,  for  her  1914  work  The  Precipice  is  one  of  the  most 
impressive,  as  well  as  explicit  statements  of  feminist  princi¬ 
ples  of  these  first  two  decades,  and  it  is  expressed  through 
the  career  of  a  social  worker  (based  somewhat  on  the  life 
of  Julia  Lathrop,  a  close  friend  and  associate  of  Jane  Ad¬ 
dams,  and  the  first  Chief  of  the  Children’s  Bureau  of  the 
Department  of  Labor ).“ 

The  novel  moves  from  a  study  of  the  new  college 
woman  to  the  social  service  worker  to  a  study  of  her  place 
as  a  new  woman,  exploring  the  role  of  marriage,  career, 
suffragism,  and  women’s  contribution  to  life  in  the  U.S. 
From  a  family  in  which  her  father  was  an  irritable  and 
completely  domineering  country  doctor  and  her  mother  had 
developed  “subterfuges”  to  get  around  his  tyrannies,  Kate 
Barrington,  a  girl  of  physical  strength,  freedom  of  gesture 
and  flexibility,  is  clearly  not  cut  out  for  a  similar  role. 
Her  glance  is  “feminine  yet  unafraid,  beautiful  but  not 
related  to  sex”  (p.  14).  Her  estrangement  from  her  father, 
after  her  mother’s  death,  is  inevitable,  because  Kate  re¬ 
fuses  to  be  “kept”;  she  insists  on  being  paid  for  the  services 
of  running  his  home  and  office.  When  he  refuses,  she  leaves 
because  she  won’t  allow  him  “to  break  her  down  the  way 
most  of  the  men  in  Silvertree  have  broken  their  women 
down”  (p.  40). 

What  follows  is  a  very  successful  career  as  an  officer 
of  the  Children’s  Protective  Association,  headquartered  at 
Hull  House,  instituted  and  supported  by  women,  where  she 
visits  the  homes  of  the  lowest  strata  of  society  and  has  to 
deal  with  “unspeakable,  obscene  tragedies.”  She  finds  that 
her  own  experiences  have  made  her  subtly  and  unconsciously 
anti-male,  “leagued  secretly  against  the  other  sex”  for  their 
shortcomings.  She  avoids  men  and  blames  them  for  the 


I 


A 

i 


I 


1 


91 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


misery  of  children’s  and  women’s  lives.  This  anti-male  bias 
is  reinforced  when  her  friend  Honora,  a  dedicated  wife  and 
mother  who  has  been  working  night  and  day  to  assist  her 
husband  in  the  laboratory  at  the  University,  is  deserted  by 
him  for  a  young  and  “decorative”  woman  who  is  “the  quin¬ 
tessence  of  femininity”  but  devotes  herself  to  amusement 
and  pleasure.  Kate’s  outrage  that  men  can  be  so  selfish  and 
blind  separates  her  even  more  from  ideas  of  marriage.  She 
begins  to  question  whether  she  can  ever  be  the  kind  of 
woman  who  could  marry:  “Sometimes  i  think  I’m  not  wo¬ 
manly  enough — that  there’s  too  much  of  the  man  in  my 
disposition,  and  that  the  two  parts  of  me  are  always  going 
to  struggle  and  clash”  (p.  63).  Other  examples  of  women 
who  give  up  their  promising  careers  for  marriage  (her  Irish 
friend  Mama,  a  girl  with  a  marvelous  singing  voice)  add  to 
the  confusion.  Kate  finds  herself,  with  her  sociological  train¬ 
ing,  looking  at  the  question  almost  scientifically:  “Life  was 
supplying  Kate  Barrington  with  a  valuable  amount  of  ’data.  ’ 
On  every  hand  the  emergent  or  the  reactionary  woman  of¬ 
fered  herself  for  observation.  .  .”  (p.  141). 

In  the  meantime,  Kate  is  developing  a  reputation  for 
herself  in  the  social  service  community,  as  a  powerful 
speaker  and  leader  of  the  fight  for  a  children’s  protective 
league,  a  trend  which  eventuates  in  her  being  offered  the 
position  of  head  of  the  first  Bureau  of  Children  in 
Washington- — at  the  invitation  of  the  President  of  the 
United  States. 

Although  committed  to  this  work,  she  finds  herself 
involved  in  the  feminist  movement  and  her  energies  increas¬ 
ingly  absorbed  by  what  she  sees  around  her  as  the  servitude 
of  women.  She  sees  financial  independence  as  crucial  to 
women  and  encourages  them  to  find  it;  she  speaks  at 
women’s  club  meetings  on  suffragism;  reads  Ibsen  and 
Strindberg,  and  discovers  to  her  dismay  that  “men,  more 
often  than  women,  had  been  the  interpreters  of  women’s 
hidden  meanings”  (p.  88),  that  women  have  been  conformers 
and  imitators,  even  cowards  "held  in  thrall  by  their  own 
carefully  nursed  ideals  of  themselves,”  had  too  often  re¬ 
garded  themselves  as  unsuccessful  if  not  married  and  had 
apologized  to  the  world  for  using  their  abilities  outside  of 
marriage.  But  things  are  changing.  Women  are  awakening 
to  their  powers  and  privileges:  they  want  suffrage  for  its 
symbolic  value  “by  removing  them  from  the  class  of  the 
unconsidered,  the  superfluous,  and  the  negligible.”  Kate 
articulates  for  thousands  of  women  this  “hitherto  unutilized 
feminine  force.”  Marching  in  a  suffrage  parade  she  sees  the 
women  as  “the  members  of  a  new  revolution,”  although 
only  a  portion  of  them  know  completely  what  they  desired. 
They  are  a  company  of  “the  most  distinguished,  the  most 
useful,  the  most  talented,  the  most  exclusive,  and  the  most 
triumphantly  inclusive  women  in  the  city"  (p.  156-7). 

Eventually  Kate  has  to  face  her  own  ambivalence  about 
marriage  in  the  face  of  her  growing  feminism.  Surrounded 
by  examples  of  unhappy  marriages  and  realizing  that 
“women  invest  in  happiness  as  men  do  in  property  (p. 
-<208),  she  nevertheless  feels  lonely  and  incomplete  as  a  single 
woman.  She  sees  all  that  is  wrong  with  marriage,  yet  she 
longs  for  companionship  and  love.  She  avoids  marriage  to 


an  eligible  suitor  who  offers  her  a  comfortable  life  but  is 
unsympathetic  to  her  work  and  her  principles.  When  she  , 
does  choose  a  marriage  partner,  he  is  a  man  of  unusual 
qualities  -  a  Westerner,  with  revolutionary  notions  of  per¬ 
sonal  freedom  and  labor,  but  who  is  initially  opposed  to  her 
continuing  her  career  because  it  means  their  lives  will  be 
lived  apart,  at  least  some  of  the  time.  Kate’s  definition 
of  marriage  is  one  of  full  partnership,  rights  and  privileges 
and  she  will  settle  for  nothing  less.  She  insists  on  her  own 
work  and  almost  relinquishes  this  chance  for  happiness 
with  Karl.  Recognizing  the  solitude  and  danger  of  doing 
her  work  alone,  yet  completely  committed  to  the  “new 
crusade”  for  making  women  matter,  she  feels  she  has  to 
set  an  example,  even  if  half  of  all  women  are  against  it. 
Taking  the  uphill  road  will  involve  sacrifices:  Kate  and 
Karl  agree  to  marry  and  both  will  continue  their  own 
work,  (a  solution  that  does  not  seem  revolutionary  in  the 
1980s  when  these  kinds  of  marriages  are  commonplace, 
but  for  1914a  major  stride  for  women). 

Kate  Barrington  is  probably  the  most  advanced  woman 
character  developed  by  an  Illinois  author  in  the  first  two 
decades  of  the  century.  She  is  the  complete  feminist:  not 
only  a  suffragette,  but  ready  to  take  up  the  cry  of  revolution 
if  it  is  necessary  for  women’s  freedom:  "Revolutions  have 
got  us  almost  everything  we  have  that  is  really  worth-while 
in  the  way  of  personal  liberty”  (p.  352-3).  She  recognizes 
too  that  simply  opening  up  new  career  opportunities  is  not 
enough:  "What  we  really  need  is  a  definite  set  of  principles; 
If  we  can  acquire  an  inner  stability,  we  shall  do  very  well 
whether  our  hands  are  perpetually  occupied  or  not.  But  just 
at  present  we  poor  women  are  sitting  in  the  ruins  of  our 
collapsed  faiths,  and  we  haven’t  decided  what  sort  of  ar¬ 
chitecture  to  use  in  erecting  the  new  one.  .  .  .It  s  what  we 
make  of  ourselves  that  matters,  and  we  must  all  have  the 
right  to  find  ourselves — to  keep  exploring  till  we  find  our 
highest  selves"  (p.  366).  She’s  calling  for  the  right  of  women 
to  fail,  to  make  mistakes,  but  to  reorient  their  thinking  in 
revolutionary  ways  -  to  see  themselves  in  a  completely  new 
light  -  a  cry  that  seems  to  point  directly  to  that  of  the 
women's  movement  of  the  1960s  and  1970s. 

Kate  was  a  naive  idealist  when  she  studied  at  the  Uni¬ 
versity  of  Chicago  in  the  1890s.  To  her.  as  to  many  of  the 
women  drawn  there,  the  University  symbolized  the  place 
both  of  liberating  ideas  and  access  to  the  “real  world  o' 
professions  and  careers.  Yet  in  The  Precipice  Peattie  i? 
ambivalent  about  the  University’s  actual  role.  On  the  om 
hand,  it  prepares  Kate  for  an  illustrious  career  in  socia 
work,  able  to  speak  forcefully,  and  made  more  consciou: 
of  discrimination  against  women.  In  an  early  scene,  durinj 
her  freshman  year,  the  innocent  Kate  takes  a  seat  on  th< 
C-Bench  only  to  be  told  that  it’s  for  men  only.  It  become 
for  her  a  symbol  of  what  is  wrong  with  the  whole  system 
"It  was  the  seat  of  privilege  if  not  of  honor,  and  the  womei 
were  not  to  sit  on  it”  (p.  8).  Kate  s  consciousness  is  raise* 
several  notches. 

The  most  pathetic  story  to  come  out  in  the  novel  is  th 
fate  of  Kate’s  friend  Lena  Vroom.  a  thin,  tense  graduat 
student  who  works  so  hard  to  pass  her  Ph.D  exams,  an* 


92 


slieves  so  little  in  her  capacities,  that  she  drives  herself 
ito  physical  and  mental  exhaustion,  from  which  she  never 
jcovers.  The  attitude  of  one  of  the  male  faculty  partially 
^plains  her  plight:  someday,  he  hopes,  “no  woman  will  be 
jrmitted  to  try  for  the  higher  degrees  till  her  brain  has  been 
:ientifically  tested  and  found  to  be  adequate  for  the  work” 
).  97).  Lena  lacks  the  balance  necessary  to  survive  in  this 
lan’s  world;  living  a  miserable  and  lonely  life,  she  becomes 
sexless,  stranded,  broken  before  an  undertaking  too  great 
)r  her”  (p.  100),  and  despite  Kate’s  efforts  to  save  her, 
lere  is  nothing  she  can  do.  Again,  David  Fulham  the  bril- 
ant  faculty  member,  comments  that  a  woman  should  be  in 
e  kitchen  rather  than  “overtaxing  her  mental  strength’’  by 
ying  “to  keep  up  to  the  pace  set  by  men  of  first-rate  caliber” 
».  106).  Ironically,  it  is  David’s  wife  Honora  who  does  all 
■  the  hard  work  in  the  laboratory  necessary  to  proving  his 
lological  theories — work  which  ultimately  wins  him  the 
ghest  honors.  But  as  Kate  sees  Honora  competing  in  this 
ilieu,  she  understands  that  “it  would  avail  her  nothing.” 
he  university  world  is  not  prepared  to  accept  women  like 
onora  or  Lena  who  strive  for  its  highest  honors  and  status. 

Grey  Towers  (1923),  published  anonymously,  ”is  the 
niversity  seen  from  the  point  of  view  of  a  young  female 
acher,  returning  after  a  positive  experience  as  a  student, 
jt  finding  her  ideals  now  in  conflict  with  University  politics 
id  attitudes.  She  is  somewhat  shocked  at  the  new  attitudes 
'women  toward  sex.”The  girls  of  her  time.  .  .had  valiantly 
•oclaimed  their  equality  in  mentality  with  men — confessed 
at  they  envied  the  men  their  wider  opportunities.  They 
id  determined  on  the  ’Pal’  attitude  as  most  successful,  and 
igned  to  be  a  bit  bored  with  love-making.  But  these  girls 
;re — Joan  thought  as  she  watched  them — showed  that  they 
id  taken  the  opportunities  for  freedom.  .  .  .The  girls  seemed 
'  be  proud  in  their  knowledge  of  the  power  of  sex.  Some 
'  them  were  truly  the  ’vamps’  or  scalp-hunters  the  men 
aimed  them  to  be”  (pp.  46-47). 

Joan  encounters  a  good  deal  of  prejudice  and  hostility 
om  the  male  instructors,  although  the  students,  in  whom 
le  takes  a  personal  interest,  admire  her.  She  becomes  the 
bject  of  gossip — and  although  she  tries  to  avoid  “the  intrigue 
id  the  narrowness  and  the  petty  diplomacy”  finds  that  she 
mnot  escape  it.  Her  youth  and  attractiveness  are  suspect, 
irticularly  in  relation  to  her  male  students,  although  it  is 
e  older  male  faculty  whom  she  had  revered  who  try  to 
duce  her.  When  she  takes  her  oral  Master’s  exam  (having 
;ard  that  they  disliked  all  women  candidates)  she  finds 
at  they  ask  about  minutiae  in  order  to  show  off  before 
ich  other.  Even  the  most  promising  of  the  women  graduate 
udents  has  been  “undone”  by  the  system.  “The  cold  desol- 
eness  of  the  university  had  soaked  into  her  spirit”;  so  that 
le  has  become  cold,  dried,  utterly  unaware  of  what  the 
udents  are  thinking.  The  grind  of  papers  has  gotten  to  her 
id  created  dullness  where  once  there  was  a  spark”  (p.  228) . 

Marjorie  Allee’s  1937  novel.  The  Great  Tradition, 
in  most  ways  a  completely  different  picture  of  the  univer- 
ty  and  the  place  of  women  in  it.  It  is,  by  and  large,  a 
jsitive  view  of  the  University’s  acceptance  of  women,  four 
t  whom  live  together  and  are  students  in  the  biology  depart¬ 


ment.  The  focus  is  on  Merritt  Lane,  a  farm-girl  from  Indiana 
who  is  a  talented  and  bright  undergraduate  with  little  money 
or  sufficient  academic  background  to  succeed  at  the  high- 
pressure  university.  The  major  theme  of  the  novel  is  the 
support  she  receives  from  her  room-mates;  academic,  finan¬ 
cial  and  moral — that  enable  her  to  make  a  success  of  her 
undergraduate  education  and  to  look  forward  to  a  career  in 
science.  In  fact,  the  theme  of  mutual  support  of  women  at 
the  university,  as  exemplified  in  this  group  of  four  room¬ 
mates,  gives  the  novel  its  main  interest.  A  sub-theme,  that 
of  the  prejudice  encountered  by  a  black  woman  student  and 
the  attempts  of  these  four  to  understand  her  background  and 
offer  appropriate  help,  is  equally  interesting.  Each  of  the 
women  has  something  in  her  background  that  may  be  the 
handicap  that  will  prevent  her  from  success  in  her  field: 
these  range  from  lack  of  money  and  inadequate  preparation 
to  lack  of  self-control,  of  academic  discipline,  of  steadiness, 
or  of  self-confidence.  Always,  it  is  the  individual  woman 
and  not  the  University  or  its  male  hierarchy  who  is  at  fault 
— and  she  (with  the  support  of  her  friends)  must  conquer 
these  obstacles  to  succeed.  The  women  have  accepted  the 
university’s  largely  male-directed  values.  Anna,  the  oldest 
and  most  advanced,  professionally  and  economically,  is  its 
spokesperson:  she  agrees  that  no  excuses  can  be  made  for 
the  black  woman,  Delinea,  who  is  ill-prepared  for  advanced 
work  in  biology,  because  everyone  at  the  university  must 
do  honest,  first-hand  work,  without  excuses.  Women  cannot 
expect  to  get  by  without  hard  work  and  serious  preparation. 
To  the  extent  that  they  are  willing  to  accept  these  terms, 
the  novel  promises,  their  futures  are  bright.  (Allee’s  1944 
sequel.  The  House,  follows  Merritt  Lane  into  a  large 
cooperativ'g  house;  the  subject  of  racial  prejudice  at  the 
University  is  continued  as  well.) 

Several  other  novels  which  have  their  heroines,  if  only 
briefly  at  the  University  of  Chicago  include  Maude  Warren’s 
The  Main  Road  (1913)  which  takes  its  heroine  from  a  small 
Wisconsin  town  through  the  University,  where  she  encoun¬ 
ters  men  like  Robert  Herrick,  to  social  work  on  Halsted 
Street:  Barbara’s  Marriages  (1915)  which  is  laid  briefly 
at  the  University,  where  Barbara  is  a  history  assistant,  thus 
exemplifying  the  “advantages”  offered  women.  As  Lennox 
Grey  points  out  in  his  study  of  the  Chicago  novel,  ”  many 
of  the  novelists  concerned  with  settlement-house  work — 
male  and  female — were  students  or  faculty  at  the  University 
of  Chicago — the  first  large  American  University  to  have  a 
department  of  sociology.  These  included  I.K.  Friedman, 
Robert  Lovett,  E.H.  Lewis,  and  Elia  W.  Peattie.  Grey  also 
comments  that  while  the  University  of  Chicago  has  prompted 
the  novel  of  educational  and  social  problems.  Northwestern 
University  has  “prompted  romance”  (p.  599). 

5.  WOMEN’S  CAREERS 

Other  writers,  too,  from  the  late  1890s  on,  chose  the 
problem  of  women’s  careers  as  their  theme  in  a  series  of 
novels  about  Illinois  women.  A  very  early  treatment  of  the 
desire  of  girls  for  careers  in  the  big  city,  and  the  terrible 


I 


93 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


dangers  awaiting  them  there,  is  found  in  Mrs.  M.L.  Rayne’s 
Against  Fate:  A  True  Story  (1876).  Melodramatic  and 
moralizing,  it  is  nevertheless  revealing  of  the  era’s  attitudes 
towards  women  who  sought  careers.  Of  course,  the  city  is 
the  villain,  as  three  innocent  girls  leave  the  small  town  to 
seek  their  fortunes  in  Chicago.  One  of  them  is  relatively 
successful;  Lucia  finds  a  school-teaching  job  and  a  safe 
place  to  board  and  soon  finds  that  a  teacher  is  always  wel¬ 
come  in  the  best  society.  A  second,  Eva,  whose  good  looks 
are  her  undoing,  finds  it  difficult  to  get  work  in  her  chosen 
field  of  clerking,  but  does  find  employment  in  a  large  dry- 
goods  store.  She  is  soon  taken  under  the  wing  of  an  older 
(female)  employee  who  warns  her  about  being  a  “lamb  in 
a  lion’s  den”  and  promises  to  help  her  to  be  good  (having 
herself  once  been  led  astray).  Eva  finds  herself  being  asked 
to  model  shawls  and  cloaks,  and  she  must  stand  on  her  feet 
all  day  to  be  poked  and  prodded  by  the  “buyers"  (mostly 
male's).  In  addition,  the  senior  partner  pays  inappropriate 
attention  to  her,  and  were  it  not  for  the  guardianship  of  Miss 
Holmes  she  might  be  seduced.  The  atmosphere  of  the  Home 
for  Women  in  which  they  live,  filled  with  lonely,  colorless, 
middle-aged  women,  is  not  healthy  either  and  Eva  thinks 
of  her  home  town  with  longing,  where  loss  of  self-respect 
and  wickedness  are  not  threats.  By  far  the  worst  off,  how¬ 
ever,  is  Jenny,  who  is  tired  of  poverty,  headstrong  and 
self-assured.  She  falls  into  the  clutches  of  two  villains:  one 
is  a  wealthy  playboy  who  toys  with  her  affections  and  plans 
to  seduce  her;  the  other  is  her  employer,  Mrs.  Monroe,  an 
emancipated  and  wealthy  woman  who  employs  Jenny  as 
maid  and  secretary. 

Harshest  criticism  is  levelled  at  Mrs.  Monroe  who 
rather  than  protecting  Jenny  from  the  clutches  of  Russ  Fam- 
ham  encourages  the  liaison  and  tries  to  make  Jenny  a  pro¬ 
tege.  “I  shall  make  a  business  woman  of  you,  Jenny.  You 
are  only  a  pretty  doll  now.  That  is  what  all  women  are  until 
they  are  emancipated”  (p.  43).  Mrs.  Monroe,  although  Sec¬ 
retary  of  the  Women’s  League,  Visitor  at  the  Orphans  Home, 
and  lecturer  on  the  Progressive  Spirit  of  the  Age,  has  no 
real  interest  in  the  individual.  She  neglects  and  bullies  her 
husband,  and  casts  out  servant  girls  who  do  not  measure  up 
to  her  demands,  while  purporting  to  do  reform  work  among 
the  fallen,  the  unfortunate  and  the  working  woman.  Jenny 
is  overworked  and  careworn  and  has  little  but  contempt  for 
the  reformers  or  reform;  “She  could  not  find  any  pleasure 
or  comfort  in  the  final  emancipation  of  her  sex  through  the 
arena  of  political  glory.  To  be  the  wife  of  the  man  she  loved 
and  the  mother  of  his  children,  seemed  to  her  an  infinitely 
higher  station  for  any  woman  than  a  position  as  judge  of  a 
supreme  court,  editor  of  a  newspaper,  or  founder  ot  all  the 
Good  Samaritan  societies  in  the  world”  (p.  56). 

Another  early  treatment  of  the  problems  of  women 
attempting  careers  in  business  is  Lillian  Sommers’  For  Her 
Daily  Bread,  ’’  (a  work  which  appeared  under  the  pen  name 
“Litere”  in  1887).  Its  heroine,  Norma  Southstone,  sees 
Chicago  as  a  city  of  opportunity  despite  the  perils  she  knows 
women  face  (including  servitude  in  a  brothel).  In  the  book’s 
preface,  Robert  Ingersoll  states  the  problem  of  the  book; 
“There  are  .so  few  occupations  open  to  women,  so  tew  things 


in  which  she  can  hope  for  indeptendence.  .  .  .  Besides,  she  j 
is  an  object  of  continual  suspicion,  watched  not  only  by  ! 
men  but  by  women.  .  .  Even  in  this  Christian  country  of  ; 
ours  no  girl  is  safe  in  the  streets  of  any  city  after  the  sun 
has  gone  down.  .  .  Articles  by  the  thousands  have  been 
written  for  the  purpose  of  showing  that  women  should  be¬ 
come  servants  in  houses,  and  the  writers.  .  .are  filled  with 
astonishment  that  any  girl  should  hesitate  to  enter  domestic 
service.  .  .  .”  (pp.  4-7).  Wishing  to  escape  the  curse  of 
domestic  service  two  sisters  seek  independence  in  Chicago. 
One  works  in  a  sweatshop  by  day  and  studies  in  a  business 
college  at  night  in  order  to  become  a  stenographer.  She 
narrowly  escapes  being  brought  into  a  brothel.  The  city  is 
wicked  and  ugly,  but  it  does  offer  opportunity,  if  the  woman  i 
remains  strong  and  resolute.  She  marries,  eventually,  the  ! 
son  of  an  employer,  but  only  after  establishing  her  ability 
to  function  independently. 

Three  Girls  in  a  Flat  (1892)  (written  by  all  three 
girls)  is  a  quaint  mixture  of  fact  and  fiction  and  a  very  early 
“bachelor  girl”  novel.  In  this  case,  the  girls  are  brought 
together  by  a  mutual  interest  in  the  Columbian  Exposition 
and  are  sharing  a  flat  on  Cass  Street.  One  of  the  girls,  "the  , 
Duke”  is  drawing  sketches  for  the  Woman’s  Building.  (She  ; 
is  the  sculptor  Enid  Yandell  who  designed  the  caryatids  for  | 
the  roof  garden  -  and  one  of  the  book’s  authors.)  She  is  the  ^ 
most  outspoken  of  the  three  on  women’s  rights;  invited  to 
the  Potter  Palmer  mansion,  she  engages  in  a  dispute  with, 
Mrs.  Ulysses  Grant  who  argues  that  “the  battle  with  the| 
world  hardens  a  woman  and  makes  her  unwomanly.”  Hence,* 
if  there  aren't  enough  husbands  to  go  around,  women  should  1 
take  care  of  their  fathers  and  brothers  (p.  95). 

Marjorie  is  secretary  to  the  Lady  Board  of  Managers  | 
and  accompanies  Mrs.  Palmer  to  Paris  to  bring  news  of  the  ; 
forthcoming  Exposition  and  to  invite  French  women  to  par-i 
ticipate.  Through  her  job,  the  girls  (and  the  readers)  are 
permitted  to  see  the  inner  workings  of  plans  for  the  Women's; 
Building.  The  third  girl,  Virginia  (“Gene”)  is  a  journalist] 
unemployed  at  present  but  keeping  an  active  diar>  of  people; 
she  meets,  including  English  feminists,  DAR  women  and] 
a  lady  embalmer  who  wishes  to  exhibit  her  work  in  the 
Woman’s  Building.  The  book  is  a  curious  mixture  of  the 
history  (as  it  is  being  made)  of  the  Women's  Building  and] 
a  running  narrative  of  the  lives  of  three  girls  living  on  their, 
own  in  1890s  Chicago,  their  social  lives,  their  interfering 
but  kindly  upstairs  neighbors,  their  romances,  their  financial, 
struggles,  and  their  plans  for  the  future.  Gene  is  taking  vocal 
lessons;  Duke  is  saving  up  for  art  studies  abroad;  and  Mar-, 
jorie  is  taking  up  many  studies  outside  ot  her  work,  it  is  a 
particularly  lively  view  of  the  excitement  surrounding  prep-^ 
arations  for  the  Exposition  and  for  women's  roles  in  it. 

A  much  drearier  perspective  on  women's  professional 
opportunities  in  Chicago  in  the  1890s  appears  in  Ella 
McDougall's  One  Schoohna' am  Less  (1895),  "  in  which  the 
author  exposes  the  political  problems  ot  the  city  s  schools 
as  these  impinge  on  the  lives  of  two  working  girls.  Harriet 
and  Minnie  Morton.  The  sisters  are  qualified  to  be  school¬ 
teachers  (at  a  salary  of  S45-$I00  a  month)  rather  than 
dressmakers'  apprentices  (at  S14  a  month).  But  they  tind 


94 


many  stumbling  blocks  in  the  politically  manipulated  sys¬ 
tem  and  even  in  the  perils  of  collecting  their  wages  at  City 
Hall  where  they  are  preyed  upon  by  pickpockets.  Other 
labor  difficulties,  including  the  Pullman  strike,  are  occuring 
in  the  city  at  the  same  time  as  their  tribulations.  Changing 
:ertification  requirements,  bureaucratic  red-tape  and  per¬ 
sonal  prejudices  thwart  the  younger  sister  Minnie’s  attempts 
:o  be  a  teacher.  So  Chicago  has  “one  schoolma’am  less” 
3Ut  “the  big  city  bustled,  scrambled,  bragged  and  hurried 
Its  way  along.  No  one  was  even  missed”  (p.215). 

The  despair  of  the  working  girl  is  most  dramatically 
portrayed  when  the  work  is  in  the  factories  or  sweat-shops 
Df  the  city.  Some  examples  are  Dreiser’s  Sister  Carrie,  Glas- 
jell’s  Ann  in  The  Visioning,  Laughlin’s  Irish  girl  Angela 
\nn  in  "Just  Folks” ;  and  Maggie  in  Charlotte  Teller’s  The 
Cage.  Lillian  Blanche  Fearing’s  Roberta  (1895)  focuses 
jxclusively  on  the  life  of  such  a  girl  who  is  forced  by 
inrelenting  poverty  and  misfortune  to  work  in  Chicago’s 
garment  district.  Although  exposed  to  the  awful  conse- 
:)uences  of  such  work,  Roberta,  unlike  the  more  “realistic” 
leroines  of  the  previously  mentioned  books,  remains  true 
0  her  principles  and  is  rewarded  with  a  loving  husband, 
such  an  ending  obscures  the  issues  of  woman’s  work,  al- 
hough  the  book  does  reveal  important  facts  about  the  injus- 
ices  of  the  legal  system  for  the  poor. 

Other  relatively  early  novels  examining  the  implica- 
ions  of  women  seeking  work  and  careers  and  the  obstacles 
and  occasional  successes)  encountered  include  Elizabeth 
Dorbett’s  Cecily  and  the  Wide  World  (1912);  Katherine 
Brown’s  The  Hallowell  Partnership  (1912)  in  which  a 
voman  assists  her  brother  in  an  engineering  venture  involv- 
ng  building  a  drainage  canal  and  levee  on  the  Illinois  River, 
)ecoming  a  full  partner;  and  Helen  Hale’s  Where  Life  is 
W  (1905). 

But  without  doubt  the  most  prominent,  as  well  as  prob- 
tbly  the  most  astute  writer  of  novels  about  women  in  the 
business  world  was  Edna  Eerber.  Ferber  might  have  been 
he  heroine  of  one  of  her  own  novels.  She  was  a  highly 
successful ,  best-selling  author  of  more  than  twenty-five  vol- 
tmes,  including  thirteen  novels,  eight  plays,  and  many  col¬ 
ections  of  short  stories.  By  and  large  ignored  by  the  critics 
ind  considered  a  popular  or  middle-brow  writer,  she  was 
/ery  much  in  tune  with  the  major  issues  of  her  time  as  they 
elated  to  women,  was  read  more  widely  than  most  male 
vriters  of  her  generation  and  left  a  fortune  to  her  heirs, 
nost  of  it  earned  as  a  writer.  She  was  above  all  a  believer 
n  the  capacity  of  women  to  succeed  to  be  autonomous,  and 
;he  lived  out  this  belief  in  her  own  life,  as  well  as  demonstrat¬ 
ing  it  in  most  of  her  work.  A  Pulitzer  Prize  for  her  1924 
novel  So  Big  was  one  of  the  high  points  of  her  career, 
but  so  was  the  building  of  Treasure  Hill,  a  vast  estate  in 
Connecticut. 

She  arrived  in  Chicago  after  spending  most  of  her  child¬ 
hood  in  Wisconsin,  with  several  years  as  a  reporter  for  the 
Appleton  Daily  Crescent  and  the  Milwaukee  Journal  under 
her  belt.  She  had  earned  the  reputation  of  being  one  of  the 
most  aggressive  of  reporters.  The  only  woman  on  the  Apple- 
ton  Crescent,  she  covered  a  newsbeat  rather  than  writing 


special  columns  and  features  as  women  usually  did.  She 
became,  in  fact,  so  fiercely  competitive  for  a  story  that 
“housewives  fled  at  my  approach,  clerks  dodged  behind 
counters,  policemen  turned  their  coats  inside  out...  my  best 
friends  grew  weary  of  confidence”  (P.  1 15)  A  job  on  the 
Milwaukee  Journal  at  double  the  Crescent  salary  was  her 
next  step;  here  she  began  to  go  in  for  sensationalism  and 
exposes;  yellow  journalism  was  rampant.  After  3  years  of 
being  underpaid  and  overworked  she  went  home  to  recuper¬ 
ate  and  began  writing  short  stories.  Soon  after,  her  mother 
and  sister  moved  to  Chicago  (it  is  about  1909)  and  Edna 
accompanied  them.  She  was  turned  down  for  a  job  at  the 
Tribune  and  was  told  they  did  not  hire  women  reporters; 
instead  they  printed  her  feature  stories.  By  1911  she  had 
published  her  first  novel  [Dawn  O’Hara)  and  later  com¬ 
mented:  “I  was  an  Author.  I  was  a  Novelist.  Chicago  Tribune 
my  eye!”  (p.  169).  It  is  this  fighting  spirit  that  is  so  pro¬ 
nounced  in  her  own  character  and  that  she  imparts  to  her 
heroines  that  makes  Ferber  stand  out  as  an  early  feminist. 
Her  next  several  volumes  stress  importance  of  assertiveness 
for  women  and  the  potential  for  business  success,  if  only 
women  will  have  the  grit  and  self-confidence  to  pursue  it. 
Her  short  stories,  many  of  them  set  in  Chicago,  were  col¬ 
lected  in  Buttered  Side  Down  (1912)  ’'^and  showed  the  vari¬ 
ous  problems  and  triumphs  (sometimes  defeats)  of  working 
class  people,  especially  women.  Soon  after,  she  began  writ¬ 
ing  the  Emma  McChesney  stories,  about  a  woman  drummer 
(saleswoman),  which  appeared  in  Cosmopolitan  and  The 
American  Magazine. 

Eerber’s  next  work  Fanny  Herself  (\9\1),  '“’based  on 
her  own  family  experiences,  confronts  the  issue  of  women’s 
success  -  its  gains  and  its  losses  -  head  on.  She  is  spurred 
on  by  the  example  of  her  mother,  Molly  Brandeis  who  runs 
her  husband’s  dry-goods  shop,  reopening  it  the  day  after  he 
dies  “with  almost  savage  energy  and  determination.”  The 
year  is  1902  and  women  had  not  yet  taken  on  the  world  of 
business;  further,  Molly  is  untrained  in  business  and  of  a 
retiring  nature.  Nevertheless,  she  makes  a  success  of  it  and 
inspires  her  daughter  Fanny  to  make  something  of  herself, 
whatever  the  cost.  “She  would  crush  and  destroy  the  little 
girl  who  had  fasted  on  that  Day  of  Atonement;  the  more 
mature  girl  who  had  written  the  thesis  about  the  paper  mill 
rag-room;  the  young  woman  who  had  drudged  in  the  store 
on  Elm  Street.  In  her  place  she  would  mold  a  hard,  keen¬ 
eyed,  resolute  woman,  whose  godhead  was  to  be  success, 
and  to  whom  success  would  mean  money  and  position”  (p. 
107).  Armed  with  charm,  brains,  youth  and  drive,  Fanny 
finds  a  job  in  a  mail-order  house  in  Chicago  (based  on 
Montgomery  Ward’s),  and  very  quickly  rises  to  the  top,  by 
being  aggressive  and  imaginative.  To  her  mother’s  keen 
business  sense  and  ambition  she  adds  the  qualities  of  calcu¬ 
lation  and  independence.  The  other  part  of  her  nature,  how¬ 
ever,  she  consciously  starves.  Refusing  any  of  the  experi¬ 
ences  associated  with  femininity  or  Jewishness — including 
sacrifice,  suffering,  and  compassion — and  “working  like  a 
man”  she  succeeds,  in  her  original  terms  of  having  money 
and  position.  The  artistic  and  sexual  sides  of  her  nature  are 
starved.  Eventually,  there  is  a  turn-around  and  it  occurs 


I 


95 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


when  Fanny  is  in  New  York  witnessing  a  feminist  parade. 
The  farce  of  a  Jewish  girl  carrying  the  banner  which  says 
“Garment  Workers,  Infant  Wear  Section”  stops  her  cold — 
and  she  joins  the  parade.  In  doing  so  she  reunites  herself 
with  the  female  side  of  her  nature  with  her  Jewish  back¬ 
ground.  She  seeks  out  those  elements  in  herself  and  have 
long  since  been  buried  and  which  exemplified  “success”  in 
her  mother’s  terms;  service  and  compassion  among  them. 
Big  business  is  there  for  the  woman  to  conquer,  but  it  holds 
perils  for  the  woman  who  is  not  true  to  her  own  nature. 

A  woman  for  whom  business  success  does  not  come 
nearly  as  easily  but  in  whom  it  is  more  equally  balanced 
with  the  feminine  side  of  her  nature  is  Selina  Pike  in  Berber’s 
first  best  seller  So  Big  (1924)  An  orphan  at  19,  and  in 
.search  of  adventure  as  well  as  a  means  of  support  (her 
gambler  father  has  left  her  $497  and  two  diamonds),  she 
takes  a  teaching  Job  in  the  Dutch  farming  community  of 
High  Prairie,  south  of  Chicago.  Within  the  year  she  has 
married  a  handsome  but  unimaginative  truck  farmer  who 
cannot  seem  to  get  his  farm  to  prosper.  Throughout  the  10 
years  of  their  marriage  Selina  suggests,  prods,  and  nags 
Pervus  to  make  changes  on  the  farm,  but  he  ignores  her. 
Only  when  he  dies  and  leaves  her  a  widow,  at  30,  with  a 
young  son  to  raise,  does  she  begin  to  put  into  practices 
many  of  the  improvements  that  make  of  the  farm  a  going 
enterprise.  In  order  to  do  this,  she  has  to  By  in  the  face  of 
various  anti-female  sentiments  (the  time  is  1900).  When  she 
resolves  to  go  to  the  Haymarket  in  Chicago  to  sell  her 
produce,  she  is  told  by  her  minister,  “The  Haymarket  is  no 
place  for  a  decent  woman”  (p.  129),  although  not  to  go 
probably  means  starving.  Once  in  Chicago  she  finds  that 
buyers  are  reluctant  to  trade  with  a  woman.  Not  easily  dis¬ 
suaded,  she  goes  house-to-house  to  sell  her  wares.  But  her 
greatest  business  quality  is  vision:  realizing  that  she  can’t 
compete  by  growing  the  ordinary  garden  vegetables,  she 
specializes  in  fine  things  and  makes  the  improvements  neces¬ 
sary  to  turn  the  farm  into  “a  prosperous  and  blooming  veg¬ 
etable  garden  whose  output  was  sought  a  year  in  advance 
by  the  South  Water  Street  Commission  merchants”  (p.  217). 
Unlike  Fanny  Brandeis,  however,  Selina  doesn’t  sacrifice 
her  feminine  characteristics  to  the  business  world:  she  re¬ 
mains  a  devoted  mother  whose  main  goal  is  to  protect  her 
son  from  want.  Unfortunately,  as  he  grows  up,  his  view  of 
success  is  quite  different:  it  is  based  on  easy  money  and  a 
spendthrift  existence. 

Selina  is  a  heroine  of  the  business  world  who  shares 
with  many  others — in  settlement  work,  at  the  university,  in 
the  labor  struggles — certain  characteristics  women  were 
developing  and  priding  themselves  upon.  A  sense  of  inde¬ 
pendence,  a  willingness  to  experiment,  bravery,  determina¬ 
tion,  self-confidence  and  even  audacity — these  are  the  qual¬ 
ities  that  defined  the  New  Woman  coming  of  age  in  Illinois. 

6.  WOMEN  AND  THE  LABOR  STRUGGLE 

Concerned  as  they  were  about  achieving  financial  inde¬ 
pendence  and  career  advancement,  Illinois’  women  writers 


did  not  neglect,  nor  could  they,  the  years  of  bloody  labor 
strife  that  racked  the  state  from  the  1880s  on.  Influenced 
by  their  own  difficulties  in  achieving  equal  rights,  decent 
salaries,  and  humane  working  conditions,  working  class 
women  were  even  more  vulnerable  than  men  to  the  inequities 
of  the  system.  Middle  class  women  who  worked  in  the 
settlement  houses  could  not  avoid  being  aware  of  the  misery 
caused  by  the  unending  labor  strife  in  the  homes  of  those 
they  visited.  The  example  of  two  vocal  and  powerful  women 
— Mother  Jones  and  Lucy  Parsons — may  have  also  prompted 
some  women  writers  to  take  on  the  subject  of  labor  struggles 
in  their  novels.  J\\q  Autobiography  of  Mother  Jones,  edited 
by  Mary  Field  Parton,  “includes  a  section  on  her  work  as 
a  dressmaker  in  Chicago  in  the  late  1860s  after  her  family 
had  been  wiped  out  in  a  yellow  fever  epidemic,  and  her 
first  awareness  of  “the  poor,  shivering,  wretched.  Jobless 
and  hungry,  walking  along  the  frozen  lake  front.  The  contrast 
of  their  condition  with  that  of  the  tropical  comfort  of  those 
people  for  whom  I  sewed  was  painful  to  me”  (p.  13). 

After  the  Chicago  Fire  she  became  more  and  more 
engrossed  in  the  labor  struggle  and  decided  to  take  an  active 
part  in  the  efforts  of  working  people  to  better  their  condi¬ 
tions.  She  became  a  member  of  the  Knights  of  Labor  and 
began  travelling  around  the  country  taking  part  in  strikes. 
She  was  first-hand  observer  of  the  agitation  for  an  eight-hour 
day  in  Chicago,  espoused  at  first  only  by  the  anarchists  (a 
philosophy  she  never  endorsed).  She  writes  of  the  eight-hour  ' 
day  uprising  at  the  McCormick  Harvester  Works,  on  the 
1st  of  May;  the  unprovoked  charge  by  the  police  upon 
the  workers;  the  meeting  of  May  4  held  by  the  anarchists 
in  “the  shabby  dirty  district  known  to  later  history  as 
Haymarket  Square”  (p.  20);  the  sending  of  large  numbers 
of  mounted  police,  disregarding  the  mayor’s  instructions; 
the  dropping  of  a  bomb  from  a  window  overlooking  the 
square;  the  police  being  killed;  the  insanity  and  hysteria 
that  followed,  and  the  hanging  of  those  who  had  agitated; 
and  the  later  pardoning  by  Governor  Altgeld  of  the  three 
anarchists  who  had  escaped  the  gallows.  Although  many 
of  her  most  dramatic  exploits  did  not  occur  in  Chicago 
(including  the  march  over  the  mountains  in  Coaldale  with 
2,000  women  armed  with  mops  and  brooms  to  turn  the 
mine  mules  loose  and  get  the  miners  to  Join  the  strike  ). 
her  reputation  was  widely  known  in  the  state. 

Women’s  participation  in  the  labor  struggle  is  explored 
in  several  novels  of  the  early  years  of  the  20th  century  .  ■ 
Maude  Warren’s  heroine  in  The  Main  Road \s  a  labor  activist; 
Marjorie  Cooke’s  protagonist  in  The  Threshold  (1918). 
young  Joan  Babcock,  has  grown  up  in  a  laboring  family  in 
the  factory  town  of  Whiting,  Indiana.  Joan’s  ambition  is  tO' 
put  herself  through  the  University  of  Chicago,  but  then  to 
devote  her  life  to  helping  the  workers  of  America:  "to  devote 
hers  [life]  to  the  service  of  their  bodies  -  in  so  much  as  the 
improving  of  social  conditions  meant  better  and  more  com¬ 
fortable  living  for  the  workers”  (p.  8).  Although  after  gradu¬ 
ation  she  takes  a  Job  as  companion  to  a  wealthy  young' 
factory  owner  in  the  East  and  has  the  opportunity  to  live  a 
life  of  relative  ease  and  comfort,  she  does  not  forget  her 
roots  or  her  original  intentions.  In  fact,  she  devotes  herself 


96 


the  “conversion"  of  the  youth  and  his  guardian  to  a 
»cialistic  view  of  the  welfare  of  the  workers  in  their  factories 
id  brings  about  important  changes  in  conditions. 

Susan  Glaspell's  The  Visioning  (1911)  is  the  story  of 
e  gradual  awakening  to  consciousness  of  the  condition  of 
orking  women — and  by  extension — of  all  women.  Her 
;roine  Katie  Jones  lives  on  an  army  post,  the  daughter  and 
5ter  of  army  men,  in  the  Rock  Island  area.  Taking  her 
seful  life  for  granted,  she  is  shocked  to  discover  that  the 
les  of  women  are  changing  all  about  her — yet  she  has 
en  happily  unaware  of  it.  Tradition  and  privilege  have 
rrounded  her.  When  she  saves  the  life  of  a  despairing 
3rking-class  girl,  her  views  begin  to  change,  and  her  “con- 
rsion”  to  socialism  is  helped  along  by  a  romantic  involve- 
2nt  with  a  mysterious  man  who  mends  boats  on  the  island, 
it  is  actually  a  socialist  philosopher  and  reformer.  Her 
end  Ann  has  been  the  victim  of  society’s  and  men’s  mis- 
latment  and  as  a  factory  worker  where  life  has  become 
ire  drudgery  ("You  get  so  tired — you  get  so  dead — all  day 
rig  putting  suspenders  in  a  box — or  making  daisies — or 
dressing  envelopes — or  trying  to  remember  whether  it 
IS  apple  or  custard  pie’’)  (p.  234). 

Ann  has  succumbed  to  the  advances  of  a  Major  (known 
d  respected  by  Katie’s  circle)  who  had  an  affair  with  and 
;n  abandoned  her,  leaving  Ann  to  contemplate  suicide, 
itie  grows  in  awareness  that  she  (representing  middle  class 
3men  of  status  and  security)  has  been  kept  too  safe.  She 
gins  to  realize  too  that  her  own  “freedom”  is  limited  by 
ving  to  play  according  to  the  rules  and  principles  of  her 
k'n  class,  and  that  she  has  the  courage  to  defy  them.  An 
j  friend  argues  that  Katie  has  no  reason  to  wander  out  of 
;  shelter  that  her  life  provides  or  to  cast  off  the  beautiful 
ings  of  the  past  that  women  have  a  responsibility  to  pre- 
rve.  Katie  learns  differently:  the  face  of  an  immigrant  girl 
steerage  for  whom  she  feels  pity  and  fear  “made  it  seem 
at  there  were  bigger  and  more  tender  work  for  women 
an  preserving  inviolate  those  things  women  had  left”  (p. 
9).  Katie  is  converted  to  socialism  and  to  activism. 

A  story  similar  in  its  concentration  on  the  awakening 
nsciousness  of  a  naive  girl  to  the  plight  of  working  class 
ople  and  to  women’s  independence  is  Charlotte  Teller 
[irsch’s]  The  Cage  (1907).  Looking  retrospectively  at  the 
nditions  in  the  slums  and  factories  which  brought  about 
:  McCormick  and  Haymarket  troubles.  Teller  sees  some 
ipe  in  social  education  and  the  practical  training  of  leaders, 
well  as  the  failure  of  religious  missionary  work  in  the 
lettoes,  to  bring  about  real  change.  We  are  reminded  of 
;  statement  by  Jane  Addams  that  such  events  as  the 
lymarket  riot  might  have  been  avoided  if  man  had  taken 
cial  forethought. 

Social  service  and  women’s  freedom  combine  in  this 
ivel,  for  its  heroine,  Frederica  Hartwell,  is  at  first  a  naive 
lung  woman,  growing  up  in  her  father’s  mission  in  the 
est  Side  lumber  district  and  working  among  its  struggling 
lusewives.  Her  view  of  the  work  her  father  is  doing  in 
iritual  uplift  of  the  workers  and  her  own  efforts  to  try  to 
Ip  the  neighborhood  women  manage  better  with  home 
d  babies  is  a  romantic  one.  It  is  not  until  Eugene  Harden, 


a  socialist  from  Austria,  opens  her  eyes  to  the  need  for  more 
direct,  political  action  (specifically  the  demand  for  an  eight- 
hour  day)  that  her  education  begins  in  earnest.  He  sees  that 
what  is  happening  in  Chicago  is  a  class  struggle  and  that 
Chicago  will  be  the  site  of  the  “first  great  conflict”.  As  the 
events  of  the  strike  at  the  lumber  yard  owned  by  Reverend 
Hartwell’s  benefactor  heat  up  and  the  increasing  violence 
of  the  union  men  is  unleashed  (culminating  in  the  bombing 
of  Haymarket),  Freda’s  own  spiritual  and  sexual  awakening 
is  also  taking  place.  In  love  with  Harden,  and  willing  to 
marry  him  despite  rumors  of  his  being  already  married  in 
Europe,  she  moves  towards  an  understanding  of  her  own 
powers  as  a  woman  and  of  the  need  for  her  to  assert  her 
independence  and  intellectual  equality. 

Of  the  old  world.  Harden  is  drawn  to  Freda  when  she 
is  his  wide-eyed  disciple;  but  as  she  matures  and  questions 
him,  as  she  asserts  her  right  to  move  among  the  people  and 
take  part  in  the  labor  struggles,  he  accuses  her  of  interfering 
with  things  she  knows  nothing  about:  “Have  you  no  sense 
of  justice,  or  are  you  like  other  women,  without  it?”  (p. 
252).  Her  growing  sense  of  her  own  power  allows  her  to 
confront  him  and  even  run  the  risk  of  losing  him:  “She  had 
a  sense  of  power  and  will  and  of  fighting  in  her  that  she 
was  not  to  be  dominated  by  anyone”  (pp.  267-8).  Here  the 
two  story  lines  meet,  for  just  as  Harden  is  fighting  for  the 
rights  of  working  men,  Freda  is  becoming  increasingly  aware 
of  “the  cage”  which  has  kept  women  as  imprisoned  as  work¬ 
ers:  “All  the  traditions  of  a  thousand  years,  which  have  kept 
the  woman  away  from  freedom,  have  made  the  legal  restraint 
the  spiritual  law  for  the  sex,  suddenly  appeared  to  her  as  a 
great  wall  which  might  fall  upon  her”  (p.  223). 

Finally,  Freda’s  growing  emancipation  as  a  woman  and 
heightened  sense  of  the  complexities  of  the  labor  struggle 
communicate  themselves  to  the  women  of  the  neighborhood. 
She  feels  rising  anger  at  the  well-to-do  speaker  from  the 
North  side  who  lectures  the  women  on  asking  God  to  give 
them  patience  and  contentment  and  reward  in  the  next  life. 
Remembering  that  her  father  has  also  preached  the  law  of 
resignation  and  meekness,  “She  would  have  liked  to  stand 
up  there  in  Mrs.  Parrish’s  place  and  urge  them  to  cast  aside 
meekness  and  resignation,  to  go  back  to  their  husbands  with 
wrath  in  their  hearts;  to  say  to  every  man  in  their  homes, 
‘We  must  fight!  We  must  change  the  condition  which  have 
brought  to  us  little  of  leisure  and  less  of  comfort’”  (p.  86). 

7.  WOMEN  AND  SUFFRAGISM 

The  Woman’s  Suffrage  Movement  as  a  theme  underlies 
may  of  the  novels  of  the  New  Woman  but  finds  it  most 
explicit  statements  in  Marietta  Holley’s  Samantha  at  the 
World’s  Fair  ( 1893);  Warren’s  The  Main  Road  (1913)  Peat- 
tie’s  The  Precipice  (1914),  Keith’s  The  Girl  (1917);  Edith 
Wyatt’s  The  Invisible  Gods  (1923);  Janet  Ayer  Fairbank’s 
The  Bright  Land  (1932)  and,  explicitly  and  in  its  most  ex¬ 
tended  form  in  Fairbank’s  R/f/rA/iVU,  Poor  Man  ( 1936). 

In  Edith  Wyatt’s  Invisible  Gods  suffragism  is  a 
“buried”  issue,  but  it  is  inherent  both  in  the  difficult  life  of 


A 

\ 


97 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


one  of  the  major  characters,  Maisic,  who  is  almost  ruined 
by  her  dedication  to  an  artistic  husband,  and  the  contrast 
with  her  aunt,  who  although  of  an  older  generation,  is  in¬ 
volved  in  pursuing  her  own  career  as  an  artist:  “Women  are 
getting  up  a  sort  of  decorative  art  guild  in  New  York;  and 
I’m  going  on  and  live  with  Kate  Crandall  Orme  in  a  house 
they’ve  taken  there  and  help  them  start  it.”  Her  sister,  Mrs. 
Marshfield,  fears  they  are  “suffrage  people”  but  Lucy  assures 
her  they  are  not.  “But  1  went  to  hear  Susan  B.  Anthony 
while  1  was  in  New  York.  1  liked  her.  1  think  what  she  said 
is  true”  (p.  18). 

Janet  Ayer  Fairbank  was  one  of  two  socially  prominent 
Chicago  sisters  whose  novels  of  women’s  lives  were  widely 
read  and  respected  in  the  1920s  and  1930s.  Herself  an 
energetic  worker  for  the  cause  of  suffrage,  she  was  active 
in  the  Progressive  Party,  on  the  Democratic  National  Com¬ 
mittee  and  was  an  Illinois  Democratic  National  Commit- 
teewoman  from  1920  to  1924.  Her  1932  novel  The  Bright 
Land,  the  story  of  pioneers  in  Galena  from  the  1 840s  through 
the  post-Civil  War  era,  presents  a  woman  who,  while  rebel¬ 
lious  in  her  youth  (in  defying  her  father  and  marrying  the 
man  of  her  choice),  becomes  a  traditional  wife  and  accepts 
the  limitations  of  this  role.  The  only  sign  of  her  “rebellion” 
that  endures  is  in  helping  an  escaped  slave  (although  she 
is,  in  principle,  opposed  to  abolitionism).  Of  women’s 
rights,  she  says  only,  “You  know  very  well  I  don’t  pretend 
to  know  anything  regarding  politics.  You  will  make  these 
gentlemen  believe  I  am  one  of  these  indelicate  ‘votes  for 
women’s  females  they  dislike  so  greatly”  (p.  319). 

But  Fairbank’s  next  novel  Rich  Man,  Poor  Man  (1936) 
takes  on  the  issue  of  woman’s  suffrage  squarely  and  con¬ 
fronts  directly  the  problems  it  poses  for  women  as  well  as 
the  solutions  it  offers.  Recreating  the  years  1912-1929,  and 
focusing  on  the  figure  of  the  politically  active  heroine  Bar¬ 
bara  Jackson,  completely  committed  to  the  causes  of  suf¬ 
fragism  and  prohibition,  the  novel  projects  the  personal 
havoc  her  activism  causes  in  her  marriage  to  a  man  initially 
supportive  of  her  feminism,  her  politics  and  her  causes. 
Barbara  is  a  product  of  Kansas  politics,  where  women  had 
long  been  active,  and  Progressivism.  A  woman  of  the 
people,  feisty,  a  powerful  orator,  emotionally  persuasive, 
she  is  a  bom  politician.  Hearing  her  first  speech  on  suf¬ 
fragism,  the  young  and  wealthy  Hendricks  is  converted  to 
her  cause  and  marries  her.  She  is  from  a  long  line  of  inde¬ 
pendent  women:  her  grandmother  was  an  abolitionist  and 
suffragist  “way  back  in  the  50’s  and  ran  the  family  farm  as 
well.”  Babs  has  been  brought  up  to  do  her  own  thinking, 
and  “it  did  not  occur  to  Hendricks  to  question  this  quality 
in  a  wife”  (p.  126).  But  his  prominent  family  is  not  as 
accepting  of  her  politics  or  of  the  unconventional  dress  and 
behavior  that  bring  embarrassment  to  them.  Hendricks’s 
father,  especially,  has  a  closed  mind  toward  suffragism. 

Soon,  the  marriage  begins  to  feel  the  pressures  of  family 
disapproval.  But  Barbara  becomes  if  anything  more  radical. 
She  increasingly  finds  fault  with  her  husband;  trivial  details 
such  as  his  expecting  to  read  the  paper  first  in  the  morning: 
“as  a  feminist,  she  could  not  bring  herself  to  accept  so 
flagrant  a  distinction  between  the  sexes  as  that  which  gave 


a  man  first  rights  to  the  newspaper”  (p.  223).  Barbara’s 
wrath  is  fueled  in  reading  of  the  abominable  way  in  which 
women  have  been  treated  during  the  suffrage  parade:  “Bands 
were  broken  up  and  dispersed,  and  floats  which  portrayed 
various  phases  of  the  suffrage  movement  were  driven  out 
of  line.  The  marching  women  were  shoved  about  and  treated 
with  gross  indignity,  both  by  the  mob  and  the  police”  (p. 
224).  When  the  Suffrage  Bill  is  passed  in  Illinois,  Barbara 
takes  her  small  baby  there  for  the  celebration,  much  to  her 
husband’s  chagrin.  He  begins  to  see  her  as  a  fanatic  on  the 
issue.  She  reads  Olive  Schreiner’s  Woman  and  Labor  in 
preparation  for  the  national  suffrage  campaign  and  becomes 
increasingly  militant,  favoring  a  campaign  similar  to  that 
of  Mrs.  Pankhurst’s  in  England.  She  drives  to  the  “foreign 
wards”  in  Chicago  to  discuss  the  vote  with  immigrant  women 
and  get  them  to  register. 

As  Barbara  grows  more  radical  the  author’s  and  the 
reader’s  sympathies  grow  away  from  her:  she  is  seen  to  be 
rigid  in  principles,  shallow  in  emotional  capacities,  no  longer 
the  lovely  and  idealistic  girl  who  captivated  Hendricks  and 
whose  sympathies  she  au-oused.  The  change  in  her  has  been 
for  the  worse:  suffragism  has  in  itself  been  a  successful  and 
worthwhile  cause;  but  in  Barbara  it  touched  off  sparks  of 
radicalism  that  needed  further  fuel;  by  the  end  of  the  novel 
she  is  becoming  a  disciple  of  Trotsky  and  wants  to  go  to 
Russia  to  see  him.  Hendricks’s  patience  and  compassion 
are  admired.  (By  1919  Woman  Suffrage  passed  the  Congress 
and  was  then  ratified  by  the  states;  it  became  law  in  1920.) 

It  shouldn’t  be  assumed,  despite  the  preceding  ac¬ 
counts,  that  the  ideals  of  suffrage  and  women’s  freedom 
were  universally  accepted  and  approved  by  Illinois  women. 
Many  works  can  be  cited  in  which  suspicion,  fear  and  moc¬ 
kery  of  the  new  trends  in  women’s  lives  were  explicit. 
One  of  these  is  Agnes  Surbridge’s  The  Confessions  of  a 
Club  Woman  ( 1 904) , "  a  treatise  on  the  dangers  of  participat¬ 
ing  in  women’s  clubs.  In  a  confessional  tone,  the  heroine 
admits  that  her  over-zealous  participation  led  to  neglect  of 
her  home  and  children,  a  near-divorce,  political  back-biting 
and  conniving  within  the  women’s  club  movement, 
jealousies  and  pettiness  among  women  where  there  should 
have  been  cooperation.  While  the  club  movement  pretends 
to  be  “a  democratic  organization  ...  a  place  where  the 
poor  and  unknown  woman.  .  .  may  meet  on  terms  of  equality 
the  most  famous  women  of  the  day.  .  .  the  middle-class 
woman’s  opportunity  ”  (p.  9),  it  is  in  actuality  a  hotbed  o| 
competitiveness,  politics  and  struggle;  an  obsession,  an  ex 
cuse  for  showing  off  one's  new  costumes;  a  way  for  womer 
to  further  their  husbands’  careers  and  their  own  social  pos 
ition,  an  excuse  for  snobbery.  Power  positions  are  given  tc 
the  monied;  elections  are  “fixed’ ;  the  work  is  often  exhaust 
ing;  and  women  are  encouraged  to  engage  with  corrup 
politicians  seeking  their  support.  The  novel  does  present  als* 
a  “sensible”  woman  as  a  model  of  what  the  club  w  oman  ough 
to  be — moderate,  balanced,  coming  home  “refreshed  am 
strengthened  with  her  mind  enlarged  and  her  interest 
broadened”  (p.  54).  She  speaks  for  remembering  the  impor 
tance  of  the  other  lives  dependent  on  her  for  happiness,  fo 
home  and  children. 


98 


The  heroine,  however,  succumbs  to  excesses;  there- 
re,  her  commentaries  on  the  new  woman’s  redefined  roles 
the  home,  on  emancipation,  and  on  suffragism  are  dis- 
unted.  The  role  opening  up  to  women  to  influence  politics 
Chicago — through  the  Good  Government  Club  where 
jmen  can  be  influential  as  tax-payers,  business-owners 
d  employers — is  discounted  because  men  in  power  resent 
omen’s  “high-handed  proceedings”  and  dislike  having  to 
ce  into  account  their  growing  power.  The  extent  to  which 
s  club  woman  can  be  manipulated  by  men  and  be  made 
;  subject  of  scandal  further  diminishes  her  influence.  The 
cial  prominence,  the  gala  balls  and  the  power  go  to  the 
roine’s  head  and  she  can  accomplish  very  little  real  good 
r  the  community  of  women  she  serves.  And,  she  finally 
mits,  “neither  do  nine-tenths  of  the  club  women  in  this 
luntry”  (p.  235-6). 

A  second  piece  published  in  the  same  year  is  Marjorie 
;nton  Cooke’s  one-act  play  “Reform”  in  which  women 
formers  are  portrayed  as  better  off  married  than  lecturing 
out  women’s  rights.  And  Janet  Ayer  Fairbank  (the  same 
ho  advanced  the  cause  of  suffragism  in  Rich  Man,  Poor 
an)  pokes  fun  at  it  in  the  one-act  play  “Woman  and  Super- 
oman”  included  in  her  1910  volume  In  Town  and  Other 
mversations .  “^Here  the  butt  of  humor  is  Miss  E.  Lindley 
me,  a  college  graduate,  a  business  woman,  a  suffragist' 
id  a  believer  in  the  ability  of  her  sex,  who  spends  her 
nch  hour  lecturing  girls  about  their  needs  for  enfranchise- 
ent,  but  is  seen  as  an  object  of  ridicule  because  she  is 
ipported  by  a  father  who  “happens  to  be  a  railroad  presi- 
:nt”  and  because  she  has  only  dabbled  in  real  work,  for 
e  purpose  of  “publishing  articles  on  the  conditions  of  the 
orking  woman”  (p.  92).  But  she  too  proves  herself  vulner- 
)le  to  the  attentions  of  a  young  man  who  flatters  her  and 
•on  leaves  with  him,  temporarily  at  least  forgetting  her 
)mmitment  to  the  working  woman. 

WOMEN  AS  ARTISTS 

The  first  two  decades  of  the  century  were  a  period  of 
jltural  and  artistic  ferment  in  Chicago,  as  has  been  de- 
;ribed  by  Bernard  Duffey  in  The  Chicago  Renaissance  in 
merican  Letters,  as  well  as  in  numerous  novels,  memoirs 
id  autobiographies  of  the  period.  It  was  a  time  of  rebellion 
id  artistic  experimentation.  The  post-impressionist  Show 
;  the  Art  Institute  in  1913  and  the  coming  of  Lady  Gregory 
id  the  Dublin  Company  of  Players  caused  a  great  flurry, 
ocialist  ideas,  anarchist  influences  from  the  labor  move- 
lent,  and  murmurings  about  sexual  freedom  attracted  the 
oung  from  the  small  towns  of  the  Midwest  to  Chicago, 
/omen  were  rebelling  against  the  double  standard  and  at- 
:mpting  to  achieve  a  kind  of  personal  freedom,  a  new  code 
f  behavior  not  available  in  the  provinces.  As  Floyd  Dell 
ut  it,  they  “dropped  into  bohemia”  looking  for  males  to 
ppreciate  and  attach  themselves  to.  But  many  stayed  to 
/rite  books,  start  magazines  and  theatres,  act  in  and  produce 
lays,  write  for  the  newspapers,  and  patronize  the  arts. 
Vhile  they  may  have  been  seeking  freedom  of  personal 
xpression  and  lifestyle,  they  made  significant  contributions 


to  the  literary  life  of  the  community  which  have  been  long 
overlooked  or  underestimated. 

Men  and  women  from  all  over  the  midwest,  people  of 
talent  and  spirit  began  to  seek  each  other  out  in  Chicago, 
to  form  communities  of  interest  and  talent,  find  work  in  the 
newspapers,  theaters,  little  magazines,  and  bookstores  spring¬ 
ing  up  around  the  city.  These  were  the  years  of  the  Little 
Theatre  movement,  the  birth  of  the  little  magazines — particu¬ 
larly  Poetry  and  the  Little  Review;  the  comaraderie  of  the 
studios  of  the  Fine  Arts  Building  (housing  the  Little  Theatre, 
The  Dial,  Anna  Morgan’s  Drama  studios,  the  Little  Review 
office,  the  Little  Room,  the  Fortnightly  Club,  Ralph  Fletcher 
Seymour’s  studio  in  which  Poetry  magazine  was  bom  and 
spent  its  first  four  years,  the  studios  of  Lorado  Taft  and 
George  Ade  and  many  others);  the  tiny  apartments  of  the 
57th  Street  Art  Colony  (one-time  World’s  Fair  shops)  where 
Margery  Currey  with  her  “genius  for  friendship”  and  her 
soon-to-be  divorced  husband  Floyd  Dell  created  a  literary 
center  that  served  as  a  gathering  place  for  Dreiser  and  Sher¬ 
wood  Anderson,  Arthur  Ficke  and  Ben  Hecht,  George  Cook 
and  Susan  Glaspell,  Margaret  Anderson  and  Jane  Heap, 
Charlotte  Perkins  Gilman  and  Thorstein  Veblen,  and  many 
women  journalists,  artists,  and  actresses  who  shared  the 
small  studios  and  were  part  of  the  excitement. 

This  was  the  age  of  the  literary  club:  the  Cliff  Dwellers 
(which  excluded  women);  the  Cordon  Club  and  the 
Scribblers  (which  sought  them  out);  the  Friday  afternoon 
gatherings  in  the  Little  Room  which  drew  the  established 
literati  of  the  city  as  well  as  the  visiting  stars;  the  cafes  and 
the  tea  rooms  where  writers  congregated,  including  the  Petit 
Gourmet  run  by  William  Vaughn  Moody’s  widow  Harriet 
where  poetry  evenings  were  featured;  and  the  tiny  cafe 
alongside  the  Little  Theatre  on  the  fourth  floor  of  the  Fine 
Arts  Building  where  Ellen  Van  Volkenburg  hosted  lectures 
and  discussions.  The  Sunday  afternoon  gatherings  of  Elia 
Peattie  were  frequented  by  those  who  had  achieved  literary 
respectability  and  reputation.  Eor  others,  there  were  the 
bookstores:  Covici-McGee  where  Ben  Hecht  held  forth; 
A.C.  McClurg’s  which  boasted  the  “Eugene  Field  Corner”; 
and  later,  Fanny  Butcher  Books  (she  had  been  a  reporter 
for  the  Tribune  since  1912;  its  literary  critic  since  1928). 
For  the  New  Woman  who  wanted  to  leave  her  mark  on 
Chicago’s  literary  scene,  there  were  many  avenues  to 
explore,  and  she  did. 

Sidney  Bremer’s  excellent  discussion  of  the  ways  in 
which  Chicago  literary  women  came  together  in  a  “col¬ 
laborative  spirit”  is  enlightening.  The  extent  to  which  Hull 
House  (at  which  “most  of  Chicago’s  women  writers  were 
teachers  or  visitors  or  residents... at  one  time  or  another”) 
functioned  to  create  a  cooperative  spirit  among  women  is 
instructive.  Literary  magazines  also  offered  opportunities 
for  women — as  editors,  poets,  and  essayists.  In  fact,  Bremer 
claims,  “the  motivating  force  of  this  collective  affirmation 
is  exemplified  by  Harriet  Monroe’s  career  as  a  poet  and  as 
founding  editor  of  Poetry  Magazine ...  .Monroe  valued  pub¬ 
lic  recognition  for  the  ‘feminine’  muse  of  poetry  as  for 
herself,  for  the  human  embodied  in  the  feminine — Affirm¬ 
ing  the  artist’s  reciprocal  relationship  to  society,  her  Poetry 


j 

I 

I 


99 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


supported  Chicago’s  women  novelists  in  their  emphasis  on 
public  speech,  as  well  as  their  residential  sense  of  the  artist’s 
civic  responsibility.  It  is  no  surprise  that  many  of  them  had 
their  poetic  works  published  and  reviewed  in  Poetry — or  in 
Margaret  Anderson’s  more  bohemian,  but  also  local  Little 
Review”  (p.  221).  Bremer  documents  as  well  the  important 
contribution  of  women  to  the  development  and  on-going 
health  of  the  Little  Room,  that  Friday  afternoon  informal 
club  that  “brought  men  and  women  together  as  friends  and 
colleagues,  in  marked  contrast  to  most  of  the  city’s  sex-di¬ 
vided  clubs  and  professional  organizations’’  (p.  221). 

A  number  of  important  texts  for  the  reader  who  wants 
to  understand  just  how  women  functioned  during  the 
Chicago  Renaissance  are  memoirs  and  autobiographies.  Har¬ 
riet  Monroe’s  A  Poet’s  Life*'"  documents  her  career  as  corres¬ 
pondent  and  art  and  drama  reviewer  for  Chicago  and  New 
York  papers;  her  work  as  a  literature  teacher;  her  serious 
career  as  a  writer  beginning  in  1888  (culminating  in  the 
writing  of  a  “Columbian  Ode’’  for  the  dedication  of  the 
Columbian  Exposition);  and,  in  her  fiftieth  year,  the  under¬ 
taking  of  the  great  project  of  her  life,  the  founding  of  a 
magazine  for  poets  whose  influence  continues  to  be  felt 
today.  The  first  issue  of  Poetry:  A  Magazine  of  Verse  ap¬ 
peared  in  1912  and  proceeded  to  publish  the  work  of  mid- 
western  poets  as  well  as  notable  “foreigners’’  including 
Joyce,  Yeats,  and  the  expatriates  T.S.  Eliot  and  Ezra  Pound. 
Throughout  the  24  years  of  her  editorship,  she  devoted  her¬ 
self  to  the  magazine,  its  survival  and  its  improvement.  Her 
autobiography  also  heralds  the  work  of  associate  editors 
Alice  Corbin  Henderson,  Marion  Strobel,  Eunice  Tietjens, 
notable  writers  in  their  own  right.  Poet,  novelist,  war  corres¬ 
pondent,  and  world  traveler,  as  well  as  one  connected  with 
the  early  years  of  Poetry,  Tietjens’  autobiography.  The 
World  At  My  Shoulder  (1938),^’  is  a  valuable  guide  to  these 
early  decades  in  Chicago  where  she  was  active  in  the  group 
that  included  Dell,  Currey,  and  Cook. 

Fanny  Butcher’s  1972  memoir  and  autobiography, 
Many  Lives — One  Love,  is  a  treasure-house  of  information 
about  the  literary  history  of  Chicago.  Associated  with  the 
Tribune  from  1912  on,  first  in  the  traditional  female  “slots” 
of  editor,  woman’s  club  editor,  and  special  correspondent, 
and  (from  1928)  its  literary  editor,  she  witnessed  almost 
every  literary  wave,  visiting  dignitary,  temporary  aberration 
and  ongoing  trend  in  Chicago  literature.  With  almost  photo¬ 
graphic  recall,  she  recreates  life  at  the  Tribune  and  through¬ 
out  the  literary  and  theatrical  worlds  of  Chicago  for  over 
fifty  years,  providing  insights  into  personalities,  affairs, 
scandals,  and  social  events.  Of  Margaret  Anderson,  for 
example,  she  recalls  her  appearance  at  parties  on  57th  Street: 
“Margaret  Anderson  who  was  really  beautiful  was  one  of 
the  most  persuasive  delectable  pots  of  honey  at  the  studio 
parties.  She  was  determined  to  start  a  magazine,  ‘of  art  and 
revolution,’  she  said,  and  would  name  it  innocuously.  The 
Little  Review.  Unless  you  read  her  autobiography.  My  Thirty 
Years’  War,  you  would  not  know  that  she  had  once  been, 
almost  ironically,  the  literary  editor  of  a  religious  journal. 
The  Continent”  (whose  editor  was  Clara  Laughlin)  (p.  75). 

Of  Harriet  Monroe,  she  writes:  “Harriet  Monroe  was 


a  passionate  believer  in  poetry  and  its  makers.  1  thought  her 
passion  sometimes  blinded  her  and  she  was  taken  advantage 
of,  even  at  times  to  the  point  of  thinking  verses  better  than 
they  really  were,  because  she  was  so  sure  the  mere  writing 
of  poetry  was  the  divine  afflatus.... But... when  one  was 
actually  with  dear  Harriet  she  was  just  plain  difficult  to  get 
along  with,  for  inside  her  small,  wiry,  appealing  frame  were 
a  heart  and  a  mind  as  inflexible  as  a  computer’s”  (pp.  90-91 ). 

Margaret  Anderson’s  memoir.  My  Thirty  Years'  War 
(1930)  *'*  (the  first  of  a  trilogy)  is  as  unpredictable  and  vital 
as  was  the  woman  herself.  The  founder  in  1914  of  the  Little 
Review,  “Making  no  compromise  with  public  taste,”  she 
adopted  a  casual  and  liberated  life-style  (living  in  a  tent  on 
the  beach  one  summer  when  she  couldn’t  pay  rent);  eating 
her  meals  at  Pittsburgh  Joe’s  when  funds  were  low;  taking 
one  of  the  cheaper  studios  in  the  Fine  Arts  Building;  and 
using  her  good  looks  to  gain  entree  to  the  offices  of  potential 
patrons  of  the  arts.  The  magazine  reflected  her  audacity  of 
spirit  and  youth  during  the  years  it  was  published  in  Chicago, 
before  she  moved  on  to  New  York  in  1917  and  ultimately 
to  France.  It  did  much  to  promote  the  avant-garde  in  the 
arts  in  Chicago,  publishing  Tietjens,  Arthur  Ficke,  Amy  Low¬ 
ell,  Sandburg,  Masters,  Lindsay,  and  Emma  Goldman.  The 
first  issue  features  praise  of  feminism,  Nietszche,  and 
psychoanalysis.  If  the  submissions  did  not  please  her  and 
co-editor  Jane  Heap,  they  printed  blank  pages.  The  magazine 
lived  from  hand  to  mouth,  as  did  its  editors,  and  one  of 
Margaret’s  great  talents  was  in  getting  money  from  the  very 
conservatives  she  enjoyed  shaking  up  by  printing  radical  poetry 
and  criticism.  She  did  not  know  or  care,  usually,  whether  the 
magazine  was  in  debt  or  where  the  money  would  come  from 
to  pay  the  printers.  Enthusiasm  and  dedication  to  the  arts  were 
the  hallmarks  of  her  life  and  of  the  Little  Review  in  these  early 
years.  She  came  from  the  town  of  Columbus,  Indiana  and  a 
conservative  background,  adored  Chicago  and  writes  of  it  with 
pleasure.  The  feeling  was  mutual.  When  she  left,  Ben  Hecht 
announced  he  was  going  to  put  up  an  electric  sign  across  the 
Fine  Arts  Building  saying,  “Where  is  Athens  now?” 

While  Floyd  Dell.  Ben  Hecht,  Sherwood  Anderson  and 
other  men  studied  the  temperament  of  the  artist  in  Chicago 
and  his  search  for  artistic  and  social  freedom,  his  coming 
of  age  during  the  Renaissance  period,  in  works  as  familiar 
as  Erik  Dorn  and  The  Briary  Bush,  women  novelists,  whose 
work  has  not  had  the  same  recognition,  were  also  exploring 
these  crucial  issues:  could  a  woman  expect  a  career  as  an 
independent,  self-sustaining  artist  ?  What  was  her  approp¬ 
riate  role  with  respect  to  the  artistic  men  with  whom  her 
life  was  intertwined?  In  the  ongoing  struggle  between  the 
need  for  personal  happiness  and  artistic  fulfillment,  was 
there  some  way  to  reconcile  the  conflicting  demands? 

Several  novelists  seemed  to  reach  the  conclusion  that 
the  woman's  life  as  an  artist  had  to  be  subordinated  to  that 
of  wife,  whatever  the  price.  Glaspell’s  Glory  of  the  Con¬ 
quered  is  an  example.  Glaspell  herself  led  a  liberated 
life  that  reconciled  marriage  (more  than  one)  with  a  career 
as  a  novelist,  playwright,  and  actress.  But  her  first  novel 
(1909)  is.  ironically,  the  story  of  a  seemingly  liberated 
woman  who  opts  for  a  traditional  marriage  and  the  role  ot 


100 


ubmissive  wife,  willing  to  sacrifice  her  very  promising 
ts  as  a  painter  in  order  to  complete  the  work  of  her 
entist  husband.  In  this  regard,  the  work  is  almost  diamet- 
ally  opposed  to  the  view  taken  three  years  later  by  Mary 
stin’s  A  Woman  of  Genius  and  by  Willa  Gather’s  The 
ig  of  the  Lark  (1915),  in  which  artistic  heroines  post- 
le  or  reject  marriage  in  search  of  artistic  fulfillment.  It 
rue  that  in  Glaspell’s  novel  the  scientist  is  no  ordinary 
n  but  a  towering  genius,  whose  loss  of  eyesight  brings 
ragic  halt  to  a  career  that  promises  to  find  a  cure  for 
icer.  When  his  wife  gives  up  her  painting,  it  is  to  act  as 
assistant,  his  “eyes”  in  the  laboratory  and  to  compete 
work  which  will  otherwise  be  lost.  It  is  not  that  she 
lerestimates  the  value  of  her  own  work:  at  one  point  she 
s  “she  felt  that  nothing  in  the  world,  no  trick  of  fate,  no 
daught  of  God  or  man,  could  keep  her  from  the  work 
t  was  hers”  (p.  96).  But  in  leaving  aside  her  work  to  take 
a  field  she  knows  little  about,  she  experiences  a  loss  of 
mastery,  the  assurance  that  she  once  had.  Even  after 
husband  dies  and  the  laboratory  work  comes  to  an  end, 
ving  her  free  to  return  to  painting,  the  art  that  she  produces 
n  the  service  of  love,  not  an  end  in  itself:  her  paintings 
1  “show  how  she  and  Karl  loved  the  world,  what  they 
d  it  worth... and  all  of  it  to  speak  for  their  love,  glorify, 
nortalise  it”  (p.  375). 

An  interesting  contrast  to  Glaspell’s  novel  is  Maude 
irren’s  Never  Give  All  (1927)  in  which  a  talented, 
lege-educated  woman  writer  with  great  potential  devotes 
self  to  her  marriage  and  her  poet  husband’s  career  rather 
n  her  own  work  (which  is  reduced  to  endless  hack-work 
nelp  the  family  budget).  In  her  case  there  is  regret  that 
has  given  up  her  impulse  to  “write  real  things.”  Her 
)ng  feminist  principles — “her  extreme  sex  loyalty” — are  for- 
ten  in  the  love  she  feels  for  her  husband  and  the  insecurity 
never  being  sure  of  his  fidelity.  At  first  she  is  horrified 
ner  mother’s  advice  that  as  a  married  woman  she  will 
'e  to  “let  your  man  dominate  you  as  long  as  you  can 
id  it,  and  when  you  can’t  stand  it  any  longer,  get  around 
1  by  indirection”  (p.  41),  and  argues  for  a  marriage  of 
imrades  with  neither  dominating”  in  which  “the  terms 
equal  partnership,  mutual  concerns,  and  then  separate 
icems  in  which  each  partner  is  interested.”  But  she  finds 
t  her  mother’s  description  is  the  path  she  comes  to  follow, 
her  husband  dominates  her,  his  work  takes  precedence 
!r  everything  else,  and  her  own  independence  and  talent 
withdrawn  to  some  inaccessible  level.  In  order  to  keep 
ice  in  the  family  she  subordinates  her  own  ideas  and 
iciples  and  opts  for  silence.  She  puts  her  energies  into 
development  of  her  husband’s  career — which  is  never 
re  than  mediocre.  It  is  her  daughter  who  tells  her  the 
:h,  plainly  and  pointedly:  “I  don’t  think  you  should  have 
rificed  your  career  for  father.  If  he  had  cooperated,  you 
lid  both  have  had  your  careers.  You  thought  you  had  to 
e  up  yours  for  happiness  in  marriage.  You  were  afraid 
ou  stood  on  your  rights  you’d  risk  losing  daddy  or  some 
your  happiness”  (p.  287). 

Edith  Wyatt’s  The  Invisible  Gods  (1923)  presents  yet 
)ther  heroine  who  seems  satisfied,  at  least  at  first,  to 


devote  herself  to  being  the  wife  of  an  artist.  A  strong, 
intelligent  and  capable  woman  whose  previous  role  has  been 
“filling  in  the  chinks  of  the  family  needs... [she]  knows  how 
to  pitch  a  tent,  camped  for  months  at  a  time  with  her  uncle. 
One  of  these  serene,  motherly  girls — exactly  the  wife  for 
an  artist.  This  fine,  practical,  steady  girl  has  married  this 
temperamental  man  of  genius,  gifted,  sensitive — who  needs 
just  such  a  wife”  (p.  128).  But  the  man  she  marries  and 
protects  isn’t  deserving  of  the  care  she  puts  forward,  and 
ultimately  the  marriage  is  a  failure.  She  realizes  the  futility 
of  the  sacrifice  of  her  life,  particularly  when  she  encounters 
her  new  sister-in-law  who  will  run  her  own  life  as  well  as 
her  marriage.  A  woman  dedicated  to  medicine  and  writing, 
she  will  not  allow  her  marriage  to  deprive  her  of  what  is 
most  important,  however  much  devotion  she  has  for  her 
husband,  nor  will  he  expect  it  of  her. 

For  other  heroines,  the  battle  to  succeed  in  a  career  is 
too  great  and  ends  in  retreat  or  defeat.  In  Elia  Beattie’s  Lotta 
Embury’ s  Career  (1915)  the  heroine  who  comes  to  Chicago 
for  a  career  as  a  violinist  finds  the  obstacles  too  great  to 
overcome  and  returns  to  her  small  town  in  Iowa  and  a  job 
in  her  family’s  store.  Marjorie  Benton  Cooke’s  painter- 
heroine  in  The  Girl  Who  Lived  in  the  Woods  ( 1910)”rebels 
against  the  brutality  of  the  city  as  she  sees  it  among  the 
artists  who  live  in  the  “Quarter”  near  Hull  House  and  escapes 
back  to  the  woods,  where  she  tries  to  lead  the  solitary  artist’s 
life,  and  eventually  marries  a  successful  judge.  In  Katherine 
Keith’s  The  Girl  (1917)  the  young  heroine  with  aspirations 
to  be  a  writer  is  published  in  one  of  the  little  magazines. 
The  Lantern,  whose  caption  ran:  “A  magazine  for  dis¬ 
carded  truth  and  rejected  fiction.”  In  this  satire  of  the 
idealism  of  the  young  woman  seeking  an  artistic  career, 
we  follow  her  disillusionment  as  she  takes  a  job  with  the 
journal  but  is  not  paid.  The  editor,  who  seems  to  be  the 
only  other  employee,  puts  her  in  charge  of  the  “women’s 
section”  but  very  soon  has  her  reviewing  novels  and  plays, 
writing  ads,  proof-reading,  pressuring  her  to  get  subscrip¬ 
tions  from  friends  and  money  from  her  socially  prominent 
father  to  sustain  the  magazine.  Clearly,  she’s  been  “had” 
by  a  charlatan  and,  exhausted  and  humiliated,  leaves  the 
artistic  world  for  the  university. 

The  heroine  of  Marion  Strobel’s  Saturday  Afternoon 
(1930)  is  also  a  victim  of  the  Chicago  writer’s  world,  a 
more  mature  and  willing  victim — and  a  more  tragic  one.  A 
biting  indictment  of  the  hangers-on  and  the  sycophantic 
young  men  who  surround  wealthy  women  who  can  offer 
them  security  and  adulation,  in  return  for  an  occasional 
poem  or  novel  dedicated  to  them,  it  seems  to  be  written  out 
of  a  sense  of  disgust  with  the  Chicago  literary  scene.  The 
victim  in  this  case  is  a  lovely  and  sensitive  middle-aged 
woman,  the  editor  of  fine  leather  books,  devoted  to  literature 
and  the  Chicago  Renaissance,  no  longer  young  but  vital  and 
respected  in  the  community.  Her  rather  pathetic  attachment 
to  an  unworthy  and  lazy  young  poet,  who  secretly  mocks 
her  while  accepting  her  financial  contributions  to  his  well¬ 
being,  results  in  her  eventual  suicide.  Not  gifted  as  a  writer 
herself,  she  has  the  gift  and  determination  to  bring  out  these 
talents  in  others,  regardless  of  their  egotism  and  unworthi- 


101 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


ness.  The  young  men  in  whom  she  trusts,  however,  are 
lethargic  and  selfish.  And,  ultimately  her  life  is  a  waste, 
because  she  has  staked  all  on  a  false  picture  of  the  possibility 
of  a  true  literary  community  in  Chicago.  “She  was  planting 
the  seed  for  a  Renaissance  of  Literature,  don’t  you  see?  She 
was  starting  a  [lowering  oasis  in  this  town.  And  what  a  flop 
it  has  been"  (p.  23). 

Another  study  of  the  sensitive  artistic  spirit  who  is 
destroyed  by  an  uncaring  world  is  Willa  Gather's  Lucy 
Gayheart  ( 1935).  ”  While  both  art  and  city  are  means  for 
her  to  escape  from  the  narrowness  of  rural  life  and  to  find 
personal  and  aesthetic  freedom,  it  is  a  very  delicate  posses¬ 
sion  and  one  easily  lost,  particularly  when  the  artist  is  a 
woman  who  has  no  man  protecting  her  person  and  nurtur¬ 
ing  her  talent.  Lucy,  who  comes  to  Chicago  to  study 
music,  finds  in  Chicago  the  independence  and  anonymity 
noti  available  in  Nebraska:  she  “could  come  and  go  like 
a  boy”  (p.  26).  This  freedom  and  anonymity  feed  her 
artistic  gifts:  “In  the  city  you  had  plenty  of  room  to  be 
lonely,  no  one  noticed.  And  it  you  were  burning  yourself 
up,  so  was  everyone  else;  you  weren't  smoldering  along 
on  the  edge  of  the  prairie”  (p.  62). 

Despite  her  talents  and  enthusiasm  for  her  work,  she 
is  cautioned  by  her  teacher  that  marriage  is  a  better  choice, 
in  the  long  run.  Women  are  never  able  to  play  as  accom¬ 
panists  on  stage  (only  in  rehearsal).  “In  the  musical  profes¬ 
sion  there  are  many  disappointments.  A  nice  house  and 
garden  in  a  little  town,  with  money  enough  not  to  worry, 
a  family — that’s  the  best  life”  (p.  134). 

But  when  she  falls  in  love  with  Clement  Sebastian,  a 
famous  singer  for  whom  she  has  been  accompanist  during 
rehearsals,  and  an  unhappily  married  older  man,  all  seems 
possible.  He  responds  to  her  devotion  and  to  the  fire  of 
her  imagination;  she  to  the  elegance  and  order  of  his  life. 
She  foregoes  the  chance  to  marry  a  highly  eligible  young 
man  from  back  home  and  begins  to  believe  that  with  Sebas¬ 
tian  she  can  have  the  life  of  freedom  and  openness  she 
craves.  His  death,  however,  ends  her  hopes.  Forced  to 
return  to  Nebraska,  she  is  once  again  trapped  in  a  small 
town’s  pettiness  and  misunderstanding  and  she  is  cut  down 
in  her  youth.  The  symbol  of  “three  light  footprints”  in 
the  sidewalk,  left  in  the  act  of  running  away,  is  all  that 
remains  of  her  promise. 

Among  the  artistic  careers  which  lay  open  to  women 
in  the  early  part  of  the  century,  that  of  the  stage  actress  was 
neither  respectable  nor  fulfilling,  if  one  judges  by  the  novels 
about  actresses  written  by  men  as  well  as  by  women  in 
Illinois.  There  are  a  great  many  obstacles  in  the  way  of 
success  on  the  stage  and  for  most  women  the  easiest  solution 
was  to  choose  marriage,  after  an  initial  attempt  at  a  career, 
or  to  reconcile  oneself  to  a  career  and  a  life  of  loneliness 
and  rootlessness.  A  number  of  works  explore  this  theme, 
beginning  with  John  McGovern’s  Burrit  Durand  (1887); 
Lillion  Sommer’s  Jerome  Leaster  (1890);  Theodore 
Dreiser’s  Sister  Carrie  (1900);  Alice  Gerstenberg’s  Un¬ 
quenched  Fire  (1912);  Mary  Austin’s  A  Woman  of  Genius 
(1912);  Henry  K.  Webster’s  The  Real  Adventure  (1915); 
Edna  Ferber’s  Show  Boat  ( 1 926);  Thyra  Samter  Winslow’s 


Show  Business  (1926);  Mary  Synon’s  The  Good  Redd 
Bricks  (1929);  and  Vera  Caspary’s  Ladies  and  Gents] 
(1929).  Although  the  life  of  the  professional  actress  wasj 
not  yet  the  creative  artistic  outlet  women  might  have:, 
wished,  their  interest  in  the  theater  took  several  directions'  i 
which  were  more  acceptable.  ^ 

Anna  Morgan’s  autobiography.  My  Chicago,  *  docu-j 
ments  her  many  years  of  success  as  teacher  and  director,! 
one  of  the  inspirations  behind  the  Little  Theatre  movement 
in  Chicago.  Opening  her  own  studio  in  the  Fine  Arts  Building  . 
in  1899  (where  she  remained  until  1925),  she  devoted  herj; 
efforts  not  so  much  to  the  training  of  professional  actors  as  ; 
to  the  teaching  of  interpretative  readings  and  the  study  of  ! 
literature.  Of  particular  importance  to  Chicago’s  literaiy,, 
history  were  her  dramatic  presentations,  which  brought  to 
Chicago  some  of  the  most  advanced  plays  and  staging  ideas 
of  her  time.  These  productions  were  confined  to  the  small 
stage  of  her  own  studio,  usually  before  small  audiences.*) 
Not  only  the  classics,  but  the  plays  of  as  yet  unknown  i 
Chicago  dramatists  Alice  Gerstenberg  and  Marjorie  Benton 
Cooke  first  came  to  life  there.  She  takes  credit  for  having  i 
orginated  and  carried  forward  the  little  theatre  idea  ol 
amateur  theatre,  of  doing  little  plays  with  small  casts  and  | 
select  audiences,  and  of  encouraging  experimental  works; 
It  was  these  ideas  which  were  then  taken  up  by  Maurice 
Browne  and  Ellen  Van  Volkenburg  Browne  in  organizing 
Little  Theatre  in  the  same  building  in  1912,  and  in  influenc¬ 
ing  George  Cram  Cook  and  Susan  Glaspell,  who  took  these 
ideas  east  to  develop  the  Provincetown  Playhouse  on  ar  , 
improvised  wharf  in  Massachusetts,  that  was  to  become  the 
most  influential  of  the  Little  Theatres  in  America.  Glaspelj 
became  one  of  the  group’s  leading  playwrights  (along  with 
Eugene  O’Neill)  and  was  considered  one  of  its  finest  actres  ' 
ses  as  well.  < . 

Alice  Gerstenberg,  bom  and  raised  in  Chicago,  begai  j 
in  Chicago  what  was  to  be  a  successful  career  as  playwrigh 
and  novelist.  She  was  associated  early  on  with  the  littK 
theatre  movement  in  Anna  Morgan’s  Studio  and  Brownes 
Little  Theatre  (she  appeared  in  the  cast  of  its  first  produc 
tion).  Her  plays  were  also  produced  in  the  Grace  Hicko^ 
Studios  in  the  same  building,  at  the  Petit  Gourmet  (run  b; 
Harriet  Moody),  the  Playwrights  Theatre  of  Chicago  an( 
the  Player’s  Workshop  of  57th  Street,  founded  in  1916  b; 
Elizabeth  Bingham  who  had  been  in  Brownes’  Little  Theatr^ 
but  left  it  to  form  her  own.  Equipped  with  a  coal  stove 
pipes  in  the  ceiling  and  a  15x17  stage,  the  little  worksho; 
produced  plays  only  by  Chicago  writers:  including  Maxwel 
Bodemheim,  William  Sapier.  Ben  Hecht,  Kenneth  Good 
man,  and  Alice  Gerstenberg.  There  were  hundreds  of  mem 
bers,  at  a  cost  of  $1  a  month,  which  entitled  them  to  tw 
tickets  per  production.  While  Gerstenberg's  plays  are  nc 
specifically  set  in  Chicago,  they  are  of  interest  to  womenj 
literature  because  of  their  focus  on  male-female  relatior 
ships,  social  pressure,  marriage  and  divorce,  sincerity  an 
hypocrisy  among  women  in  their  friendships.  In  time  he 
plays  were  produced  in  New  York  by  the  Washington  Squar 
Players  and  in  London  and  were  published  in  1921.  Othe 
women  w  ho  w  ere  associated  with  that  opening  up  of  theatre 


102 


^perimentation  in  form  and  content  that  made  up  Chicago’s 
terary  ferment  in  the  1910s  and  1920s  were  Mary  Aldis 
vhose  home  in  Lake  Forest  included  a  small  theatre  for 
;w  and  experimental  plays),  Susan  Glaspell,  Elia  Peattie, 
id  Harriet  Monroe,  all  of  whom  wrote  for  the  stage  with 
irying  degrees  of  success. 

Two  novels  about  the  stage  which  bear  close  scrutiny 
icause  they  also  express  themes  of  women’s  independence, 
id  escape  from  narrow  tradition  and  revolt  are  Gersten- 
;rg’s  Unquenched  Fire  ’’and  Austin’s  A  Woman  of  Genius 
iblished  in  the  same  year — 1912.  Unquenched  Fire  ex- 
ains  the  heroine’s  need  to  prove  herself  on  the  stage  as  a 
volt  against  the  shallowness  of  the  “husband-hunt”  among 
e  upper-class  strata  of  society  in  Chicago.  Wishing  to 
cape  this  trap,  Jane  Carrington  turns  down  a  proposal 
om  the  season’s  most  eligible  bachelor  and  escapes  to  New 
ork  to  try  life  on  the  stage,  encouraged  by  only  a  few 
jeting  words  of  a  violinist  who  has  told  her  she  has  the 
mperanient  of  a  great  actress.  Her  desire  for  the  stage 
both  questionable  and  admirable:  on  the  one  hand,  she 
;sires  admiration,  applause,  and  the  spotlight;  on  the 
her,  she  desires  to  justify  her  existence  and  do  some 
le  thing  well. 

In  New  York,  she  experiences  the  usual  tribulations  of 
e  neophyte;  cold,  hunger,  rejection,  friendlessness,  and 
neliness.  But  rather  than  having  to  face  these  indefinitely, 
e  is  “saved”  by  a  friend  who  admires  her  pluck  and  pities 
;r  defenseless  ignorance  of  the  world;  in  love  with  her,  he 
willing  to  offer  her  a  “platonic”  marriage  in  order  to  give 
;r  respectability  and  security  until  she  finds  her  place  on 
e  stage.  Persistence  and  hard  work,  and  the  backing  of  a 
iwerful  producer/director  who  believes  she  can  succeed, 
ad  inevitably  to  her  success.  Life  on  the  road  away  from 
:r  husband  creates  temptations,  however,  and  she  finds 
at  theatre  life  is  not  all  she  needs  for  happiness.  She  offers 
leave  the  stage  for  her  husband,  admitting  that  “I  want 
be  a  plain,  ordinary,  natural  woman;  and  neither  Opal 
er  role  in  the  play]  nor  anything  else  is  going  to  stand  in 
y  way”  (p.  415).  The  ending  is  ambiguous:  “Gaston  has 
ade  her  a  star”;  but  her  husband  may  not  forgive  her  or 
ke  her  back. 

The  heroine  here  does  not  have  the  same  sense  of 
tistic  commitment  and  dedication  to  a  craft  as  does  Mary 
astin’s  A  Woman  of  Genius  or  Willa  Gather’s  Thea  Kron- 
)rg  in  The  Song  of  the  Lark.  While  all  three  women  are 
;pendent  upon  the  power  of  a  “great  man”  for  their  entree 
and  success  in  the  theatre  (or  musical)  world,  the  latter 
;roines  are  more  single-minded  and  dedicated  to  their  cho- 
n  path,  even  when  it  means  sacrifice  of  personal  happiness. 

A  Woman  of  Genius,  which  has  just  been  re-issued  in 
iperback  by  the  Feminist  Press,  is  much  more  than  a  study 
the  tribulations  of  the  woman  who  would  be  an  actress  and 
e  sacrifices  she  must  make  for  success.  It  is  a  feminist 
itement  which  treats  with  seriousness  and  complexity  the 
lemma  of  whether  it  is  indeed  possible  for  a  woman  in  the 
)th  century  to  find  professional  and  personal  fulfillment  at 
1,  given  the  terms  of  male  dominance  and  female  role  expec- 
tions.  It  goes  beyond  the  questions  posed  in  Peattie ’s  The 


Precipice  to  suggest  that  there  aren’t  solutions  at  present — that 
society  must  change  drastically  before  women  are  offered  the 
opportunity  for  fulfillment  in  any  but  the  most  traditional  ways. 
For  a  woman  with  talent,  with  a  special  sense  of  her  destiny, 
with  a  gift  that  sets  her  apart,  it  is  even  more  difficult.  But  if 
the  alternative  is  the  narrowness  and  lives  of  quiet  desperation 
that  are  otherwise  offered,  then  the  choice  seems  inevitable. 

Austin’s  heroine  Olivia  Lattimore  Bettersworth  turns 
to  the  stage  initially  as  an  escape  from  the  boredom  and 
repression  of  small  town  life  in  “Taylorville,  Ohianna.” 
Yoked  to  a  dull  husband  devoted  to  a  dull  job,  and  with  a 
deep  sense  of  loss  after  her  only  child  dies,  she  moves 
quickly  from  elocution  lessons  to  local  theatricals  to  profes¬ 
sional  performances.  She  takes  a  long  time,  however,  to 
develop  a  sense  of  herself  as  a  talented  person,  much  less 
the  “woman  of  genius”  she  is  labeled  by  the  great  actor, 
Eversley.  Along  the  way  she  sacrifices  the  husband  who 
feels  abandoned  and  resentful,  experiences  the  social  stigma 
and  ostracism  of  “respectable  people,”  suffers  poverty,  dis¬ 
dain  by  childhood  friends,  loneliness  and  despair.  Men  offer 
her  fleeting  affairs,  seductions  or  “protection”  for  a  price. 

There  is  no  sentimentalizing  here  of  the  life  of  the 
theatre  or  of  the  sleaziness,  the  cheap  affairs,  the  difficulties. 
There  is  no  ease  in  exchanging  a  career  for  the  comforts  of 
male  companionship  and  love.  In  order  to  have  success, 
she  must  accept  marginality.  On  the  other  hand,  she  re¬ 
mains  true  to  her  sense  of  her  own  "genius”  (once  she 
discovers  it)  and  its  possibilities,  the  rapture  of  power 
over  audiences,  the  respect  and  status  that  her  talent  win 
for  her.  These  make  up  for  the  deprivation  of  motherhood 
and  close  family  ties.  Thus,  the  life  of  the  theatre  is  a 
clear  revolt  against  the  smugness,  complacency  and  re¬ 
stricted  options  of  women  in  small  towns,  where  lives  are 
circumscribed  to  the  point  of  exasperation  for  a  woman 
of  intelligence,  curiosity  and  spirit. 

What  is  most  striking  about  Austin’s  novel,  however, 
is  that  she  admits  that  marriage  and  a  career  are  not  compat¬ 
ible,  for  men  are  far  from  being  ready  to  accept  a  wife  who 
is  not  devoted  to  the  home  and  children  first.  Having 
achieved  success  as  an  actress,  Olivia  is  thrown  back  into 
a  relationship  with  a  man  she  has  loved  since  girlhood,  the 
one  man  with  whom  happiness  in  marriage  seems  attainable. 
But  his  career  as  an  engineer  in  Mexico,  and  his  two  mother¬ 
less  daughters,  come  between  them,  as  Olivia  insists  on 
trying  to  work  out  a  compromise  in  which  she  will  be  able 
to  continue  her  career.  Helmuth  cannot  believe  she  would 
want  to  go  on  acting  after  marriage:  “He  couldn’t  make  for 
his  own  work  the  concessions  he  demanded  of  mine”  (p. 
107).  The  idea  that  her  work  means  as  much  to  her  as  his 
does  to  him  is  unfathomable  for  this  early  20th  century 
lover:  “I  didn’t  hold  it  out  against  Helmuth  that  he  failed 
to  realize  at  all  the  place  that  my  work  occupied,  just  as 
work,  in  the  scheme  of  my  existence”  (p.  408).  What  is 
even  more  surprising,  and  “advanced”  for  a  woman  of  her 
time,  is  that  Olivia  is  willing  to  settle  for  a  liaison  without 
marriage:  “I  suppose  that  in  as  much  as  I  had  a  man’s  attitude 
toward  work,  I  had  come  unconsciously  to  the  man’s  habit 
of  keeping  love  and  my  career  in  two  watertight  compart- 


( 


103 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


merits.  I  found  I  was  not  able  to  think  of  them  as  having 
much  to  do  with  one  another.  Still  less  had  I  the  traditional 
shames  of  my  situation”  (p.  427). 

Her  relationship  with  Helmuth  flounders  precisely  be¬ 
cause  he  is  not  willing  to  settle  for  anything  but  a  “respect¬ 
able”  relationship,  i.e.,  marriage.  There  seems  to  be  no 
solution:  “Somewhere  there  must  have  been  men  and  women 
working  out  our  situation  and  working  it  out  successfully, 
but  the  only  example  life  afforded  us  was  not  of  the  accept¬ 
able  pattern”  (p.  461 ). 

Olivia  is  a  woman  clearly  ahead  of  her  time;  as  her 
sister  (“an  absolutely  contemporaneous  woman,”  active  in 
club  work  and  “forward  movements”  and  hence  in  touch 
with  the  times)  tells  her:  she  is  “so  far  ahread  that  you  don’t 
find  anybody  to  line  up  with.  Every  time  I  see  a  woman 
step  out  of  the  ranks  in  some  achievement  of  her  own,  1 
think  'Now  Olivia  will  have  company’”  (p.  451).  But  tor 
the  meantime  Olivia  is  the  trailblazer.  The  loss  of  her  most 
significant  (and  probably  last)  love  doesn’t  affect  her  acting: 
“1  gathered  up  and  wrought  into  the  structure  of  my  life  the 
pain  of  loving  as  well  as  its  delight.  1  am  a  successful 
actress.  Whatever  else  has  happened  to  me,  I  am  at  least  a 
success”  (pp.  495-496).  Eversley’s  prophecy  about  her  has 
come  to  pass:  “You  are,  1  suspect,  a  woman  of  genius,  and 
in  that  case  there  will  always  be  bad  places  ahead  of  you — 
you  are  doomed,  you  are  driven;  they  will  never  let  up  on 
you”  (pp.  233-234). 

The  theme  of  the  woman  who  chooses,  like  Olivia,  a 
life  of  independence  and  personal  freedom,  with  its  implica¬ 
tions  of  sexual  freedom  and  new  lifestyles  continued  to  be 
an  ongoing  and  growing  concern  in  Illinois  women’s  liter¬ 
ature,  through  the  contemporary  period.  Often  this  theme 
is  combined  with  that  of  changes  in  women’s  career  aspira¬ 
tions;  in  other  novels  it  focuses  on  significant  re-evaluations 
of  what  marriage  entails  in  the  20th  century — extramarital 
affairs,  divorce,  redefinition  of  marriage  as  a  more  equal 
partnership — and  the  problem  caused  by  these  shifts  in  at¬ 
titude  and  circumstance  on  the  family  structure  itself. 


Editor’s  Note:  The  critical  task  of  reclaiming  the  lost  liter¬ 
ature  of  Illinois  women  is  a  book  in  itself,  possibly  many 
books.  This  essay  is  an  abridged  version  of  a  longer  work 
on  the  subject  by  Babette  Inglehart.  Because  ot  space  limi¬ 
tations,  we  have  omitted  sections  on  Indian  captivity  narra¬ 
tives  and  Illinois  women  in  the  Civil  War;  we  have  con¬ 
densed  other  sections  and  have  postponed  the  publication 
of  Inglehart’ s  annotated  bibliography — the  single.most  com¬ 
plete  list  of  titles  by  and  about  Illinois  women — to  a  future 
date.  Both  the  author  and  the  editor  wish  to  thank  David 
Bosca,  Chief  of  Language  and  Literature  at  the  Chicago 
Public  Library,  and  his  staff  for  their  gracious  assistance  in 
obtaining  those  texts  important  to  the  research  for  this  essay. 


NOTES 

1.  Lillian  Schlissel,  Women's  Diaries  of  the  Wesnvard 
Journey  (New  York:  Schocken  Books,  1982). 

2.  Mrs.  John  H.  Kinzie,  Wau-Bun:  The  Early  Day  in  the 
Northwest,  ed.  Eleanor  Kinzie  Gordon  (Chicago  and 
New  York:  Rand,  McNally  and  Company,  1901 ).  Orig¬ 
inally  published  in  1856. 

3.  Christiana  Holmes  Tillson,  A  Woman's  History  of 
Pioneer  Illinois,  ed.  Milo  Milton  Quaife  (Chicago:  The 
Lakeside  Press.  R.R.  Donnelley  &  Sons  Company. 
1919). 

4.  Rebecca  Burlend,  A  True  Picture  of  Emigration,  ed. 
Milo  Milton  Quaife  (Chicago:  The  Lakeside  Press.  R.R. 
Donnelley  &  Sons,  1936).  Originally  published  in  1848. 

5.  Annette  Kolodny,  The  Land  Before  Her:  Fantasy  and 
Experience  of  the  American  Frontiers,  1630-1860 
(Chapel  Hill  and  London:  The  University  of  North 
Carolina  Press,  1984). 

6.  In  his  Introduction  to  Women's  Diaries  of  the  Westward 
Journey,  pp.  10-16. 

7.  Caroline  Phelps,  “Mrs  Caroline  Phelps’  Diary,” 
Journal  of  the  Illinois  State  Historical  Society  23.  no. 

2  (1930):  202-239. 

-Eliza  Farnham,  Life  in  Prairie  Land  (New  York: 
Harper  &  Brothers,  Publishers.  1846). 

-  Mary  Mitchell,  “Reminiscences  of  the  Early  North¬ 
west,”  Wisconsin  Historical  Society  Proceedings  50 
(1902):  173-189. 

-  Mary  W.  Parkinson,  “Travels  in  Western  America  in 
1837,”  Journal  of  American  History  3.  no.  4  (1909): 
511-516. 

-Elizabeth  D.S.  Geer,  “Diary  of  Mrs.  Elizabeth 
Dixon  Smith  Geer,”  Oregon  Pioneer  Association 
Transactions  35(1907):  153-179. 

8.  W.T.  Davidson  and  Margaret  Gilman  George,  The  Yel¬ 
low  Rose:  A  Wilderness  Honeymoon  (Little  Rock.  .Ar¬ 
kansas:  PressofC.A.  Woodruff  Publishing  Co..  1929). 

9.  [Lucy  Ford],  Female  Robinson  Crusoe:  A  Tale  of  the 
American  Wilderness  (New  \  ork:  Jared  W  .  Bell.  1  %yi). 

10.  Eliza  Ann  Hopkins.  Ella  Lincoln:  or  Western  Prairie 
Life,  An  Autobiography  (Boston:  James  French  and 
Company.  1857). 

1 1 .  Sophronia  Currier.  The  Trapper's  Niece:  A  Sketch  of 
Western  Life  (Boston:  D.  Lothrop  &  Co.;  Dover.  New 
Hampshire:  G.T.  Day  &  Co..  1871). 

12.  Harriet  Mdrlineau.  Society  in  America.  2vols.  (London. 
New  York:  Saunders  and  Otley.  1837). 

1 3.  Fredrika  Bremer,  The  Homes  of  the  New  \\  orld.  2  vols. 
trans.  Mary  Howitt  (New  York:  Harper  &  Brothers, 
1853). 


104 


1.  Isabella  Lucy  Bird,  The  Englishwoman  in  America 
(Madison,  Milwaukee  and  London:  The  University  of 
Wisconsin  Press,  1966). 

).  Lady  Duffus  Hardy,  Through  Cities  and  Prairie  Lands 
(New  York:  R.  Worthington,  1881). 

S.  S.M.  Fuller,  Summer  on  the  Lakes  in  1843  (Boston: 
Charles  C.  Little  and  James  Brown;  New  York:  Charles 
S.  Frances  and  Company,  1844). 

7.  Jane  Addams,  Twenty  Years  at  Hull  House  (New  York: 
The  Phillips  Publishing  Company,  1910). 

B.  Lillian  Sommers  (“Litere”),  Jerome  Leaster  of 
Roderick,  Leaster  &  Co.  (Chicago:  Charles  H.  Sergei 
&  Co.,  1890). 

-  Katherine  Donelson,  Rodger  Latimer’s  Mistake 
(Chicago:  Laird  &  Lee,  Publishers,  1891). 

-  H.C.  Chatfield-Taylor,  Two  Women  &  a  Fool 
(Chicago:  Stone  &  Kimball,  1895). 

-Henry  B.  Fuller,  With  the  Procession  (New  York: 
Harper  &  Brothers  Publishers,  1895). 

-  Robert  Herrick,  The  Gospel  of  Freedom  (New  York: 
The  Macmillan  Company;  London;  Macmillan  &  Co., 
Ltd.,  1898). 

9.  Preserved  Wheeler  (pseud.).  From  Side  Streets  and 
Boulevards:  A  Collection  of  Chicago  Stories  (Chicago; 
R.R.  Donnelley  &  Sons  Company  Printers,  1893). 

0.  Lucy  J.  Meyer,  Mary yVort/?  (New  York;  Revell,  1903). 

-  Lucy  J.  Meyer,  Deaconess  Stories  (Chicago;  Hope 
Publishing  Co. ,  1900). 

1.  Sidney  H.  Bremer,  “Willa  Cather’s  Lost  Chicago  Sis¬ 
ters,”  in  Women  Writers  and  the  City,  ed.  Susan  Merrill 
Squier  (Knoxville;  University  of  Tennessee  Press, 
1984),  p.  217. 

,2 .  Clara  Laughlin,  The  Penny  Philanthropist:  A  Story'  That 
Could  Be  True  (New  York,  Chicago.  Toronto,  London, 
and  Edinburgh;  Fleming  H.  Revell  Company,  1912). 

3.  Louise  Montgomery,  Mrs.  Mahoney  of  the  Tenement 
(Boston.  New  York  and  Chicago;  The  Pilgrim  Press, 
1912). 

14.  Jean  Hunt,  “Hyde  Park,”  in  Walking  With  Women 
Through  Chicago  History,  ed.  Babette  Inglehart 
(Chicago;  Salsedo  Press,  1981). 

15.  Clara  Laughlin,  “Just  Folks"  (New  York;  The  Macmil¬ 
lan  Company.  1910). 

16.  Elia  Wilkinson  Peattie,  The  Precipice  (Boston  and  New 
York:  Houghton  Mifflin  Company;  The  Riverside  Cam¬ 
bridge,  1914). 

-  See  Jane  Addams,  My  Friend,  Julia  Lathrop  (New 
York;  The  Macmillan  Company,  1935). 

27.  [Zoe  Flanigan,]  Grey  Towers:  A  Campus  Novel 
(Chicago;  Covici-McGee  Co.,  1923). 


28.  Marjorie  Hill  Alice,  The  Great  Tradition  (Boston  and 
New  York:  Houghton  Mifflin  Company;  The  Riverside 
Press  Cambridge,  1937). 

29.  Marjorie  Hill  Alice,  The  House  (Boston;  Houghton 
Mifflin  Company;  The  Riverside  Press  Cambridge, 
1944). 

30.  Maude  Radford  Warren,  Barbara's  Marriages  (New 
York;  Harper,  1915). 

31.  Lennox  Grey,  “Chicago  and  ‘The  Great  American 
Novel’;  A  Critical  Approach  to  the  American  Epic,” 
Ph.D.  dissertation.  University  of  Chicago,  1935. 

32.  Martha  Louise  Rayne,  Against  Fate:  A  True  Storys 
(Chicago;  W.B.  Keen,  Cooke  &  Co.,  1876). 

33.  Lillian  Sommers  (“Litere”),  For  Her  Daily  Bread.  Pre¬ 
face  by  Robert  Ingersoll  (Chicago;  Rand,  McNally, 
1887). 

34.  Enid  Yandell,  Jean  Loughborough,  and  Laura  Hayes, 
Three  Girls  in  a  Flat  (Chicago:  Press  of  Knight,  Leonard 
&  Co.,  1892). 

35.  Ella  L.  Randall  McDougall,  One  Schollma'am  Less 
(Chicago  R.R.  Donnelley  &  Sons  Co.,  1895). 

36.  Susan  Glaspell,  The  Visioning  (New  York:  Frederick 
A.  Stokes  Company,  1911). 

-  Charlotte  Teller,  The  Cage  (New  York:  D.  Appleton 
and  Company,  1907). 

-  Lillian  Fearing,  Roberta  (Chicago:  Charles  H.  Kerr 
&  Company.  1895). 

37.  Katherine  Holland  Brown,  The  Hallowed  Partnership 
(New  York:  Charles  Scribner’s  Son’s,  1912). 

-  Helen  Hale,  Where  Life  Is  Real  (Cincinnati:  Jennings 
&  Graham,  1906). 

38.  Edna  Ferber,  A  Peculiar  Treasure  (Cleveland  and  New 
York:  the  World  Publishing  Company,  1947). 

39.  Edna  Ferber,  Buttered  Side  Down  (New  York:  Frederick 
A.  Stokes  Company,  Publishers,  1912). 

40.  Edna  Ferber,  Fanny  Herself  (New  York:  Grosset  & 
Dunlap,  1917). 

41 .  Edna  Ferber,  So  Big  (Garden  City:  New  York:  Double¬ 
day,  Page  &  Company,  1924). 

42.  Mary  Harris  Jones,  The  Autobiography  of  Mother 
Jones,  ed.  Mary  Field  Parton;  3rd  ed.  rev.  (Chicago: 
Charles  H.  Kerr  Publishing  Company,  1980). 

43.  Marietta  Holley  (Josiah  Allen’s  Wife,  pseud),  Saman¬ 
tha  at  the  World’s  Fair  (New  York,  London,  and  To¬ 
ronto:  Funk  &  Wagnalls  Company,  1893). 

-  Katherine  Keith,  The  Girl  (New  York:  Henry  Holt 
and  Company,  1917). 

-  Edith  Wyatt,  The  Invisible  Gods  (New  York  and  Lon¬ 
don:  Harper  and  Brothers,  1923). 


105 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


-Janet  Ayer  Fairbank,  The  Hright  Land  (Boston  and 
New  York:  Floughton  Mifflin  Company;  The  River¬ 
side  Press  Cambridge,  1932). 

-Janet  Ayer  Fairbank,  Rich  Man,  Poor  Man  (Boston 
and  New  York:  Floughton  Mifflin  Company;  The 
Riverside  Press  Cambridge,  1936). 

44.  Agnes  Surbridge,  The  Confessions  of  a  Club  Woman 
(New  York:  Doubleday,  Page  &  Company,  1904). 

45.  Marjorie  Benton  Cooke,  “Reform”  in  Dramatic 
Episodes  (Chicago:  The  Dramatic  Publishing  Company, 
1904),  pp.  153-163. 

-  Janet  Ayer  Fairbank,  “Woman  and  Superwoman,”  in 
In  Town  &  Other  Conversations  (Chicago:  A.C. 
McClurg,  1910),  pp.  88-96. 

46.  Harriet  Monroe,  A  Poet's  Life:  Seventy  Years  in  a 
Changing  World  (New  York:  The  Macmillan  Company, 
1938). 

47.  Eunice  Tietjens,  The  World  at  My  Shoulder  York: 
The  Macmillan  Company,  1938). 

48.  Fanny  Butcher,  Many  Lives — One  Love  (New  York: 
Harper  &  Row,  Publishers,  1972). 

49.  Margaret  Anderson,  My  Thirty  Years'  War:  An  Au¬ 
tobiography  (New  York:  Covici,  Friede  Publishers, 
1930). 


50.  Susan  Glaspell,  The  Glory  of  the  Conquered:  The  Story 
of  a  Great  Love  (New  York:  Frederick  A.  Stokes  Com¬ 
pany,  1909). 

51.  Mary  Austin,  A  Woman  of  Genius  (1912;  reprint  ed. 
New  York:  Amo  Press,  1977). 

-  Willa  Cather,  The  Song  of  the  Lark  (Boston  and  New 
York:  Houghton  Mifflin  Company;  The  Riverside 
Press  Cambridge,  1915). 

52.  Maude  Radford  Warren,  Never  Give  Alt  (Indianapolis: 
The  Bobbs-Merrill  Company,  1927). 

53.  Elia  Wilkinson  Peattie,  Lotta  Embury's  Career  (Boston 
and  New  York:  Houghton  Mifflin  Company;  the  River¬ 
side  Press  Cambridge,  1915). 

-  Marjorie  Benton  Cooke,  The  Girl  Who  Lived  in  the 
Woods  (Chicago:  A.C.  McClurg  &  Co.,  1910). 

54.  Marion  Strobel,  Saturday  Afternoon  (New  York:  Farrar 
&  Rinehart,  Incorporated,  1930). 

55.  Willa  Cather,  Lucy  Gayheart  (New  York:  Alfred  A. 
Knopf,  1935).  Quotations  cited  here  are  to  paperback 
edition  published  by  Vintage  Books,  1976). 

56.  Anna  Morgan.  My  Chicago.  (Chicago:  R.  F.  Seymour, 
1918). 

57.  Alice  Gerstenberg,  Unquenched  Fire  (Boston:  Small. 
Maynard  and  Company,  1912). 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


SUPPLEMENTARY 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


tEFACE 

The  literary  heritage  of  Illinois  comprises  more  than 
n  be  accomplished  in  the  project  sponsoring  this  Reader  s 
tide.  Although  the  preceding  essays  and  bibliographies 
;  an  excellent  introduction  to  that  heritage  and  do  occasion- 
y  refer  to  black,  Hispanic  or  ethnic  writers  (although  not 
/enile  literature),  the  following  select  bibliographies  are 
more  concerted,  albeit  circumscribed,  effort  to  provide 
iglish  language  material  in  these  areas.  Future  projects 
^'estigating  the  literary  heritage  of  Illinois  should  offer 
are  extensive  research,  narrative,  and  bibliographies  for 
ase  topics.  Too,  the  areas  of  English,  French,  native  Amer- 
in,  and  Asian  literature  should  be  included. 

The  bibliographies  are  principally  concerned  with  tic- 
m,  with  a  few  notations  given  to  poetry,  drama,  and  essays, 
n  attempt  has  been  made  to  record  the  more  significant 
orks  which  are  in  print  or  may  be  found  in  libraries  or 
lecial  collections.  Scholars,  literary  organizations  or  spec- 
lized  publications  are  other  resources  for  those  seeking 
ore  information  concerning  a  general  topic,  a  specific  au- 
or  or  work,  or  additional  material.  A  very  limited  selection 
■  reference  titles  has  been  given,  however,  in  each  of  the 
lur  bibliographies. 

The  juvenile’s  bibliography  suggests  reading  levels, 
he  other  bibliographies,  while  annotated,  usually  leave  the 
:ader  to  decide  what  is  appropriate  given  purposes  or  audi- 
ices.  For  books,  little  or  no  attempt  has  been  made  to 
idicate  which  are  hardback  and  which  paperback.  It  should 
Iso  be  mentioned  that  the  black  and  Hispanic  bibliographies 
ffer  works  by  authors  from  the  community  which  is  the 
ancern  of  the  list.  The  bibliography  for  ethnics,  however, 
oes  include  a  few  works  about  a  particular  ethnic  experience 
y  an  author  not  from  that  group. 

A  debt  of  gratitude  is  owed  to  those  individuals  noted 
elow  who  researched  and  compiled  the  bibliographies  in 
hort  time  but  in  good  form.  Limitations,  errors  or  omissions 
re  not  theirs. 


Blacks 

Steve  Cameron  Newsome, Director 
Vivian  G.  Harsh  Collection  of 
Afro-American  History  and  Literature 
Woodson  Regional  Library 
Chicago,  Illinois 


Hispanics 

Nicolas  Kanellos,  Publisher 
Arte  Publico  Press/RCR 
University  of  Houston 
Houston,  Texas 

Ethnics 

Babette  Inglehart,  Professor 
Chicago  State  University 
Chicago,  Illinois 

Juvenile 

Dorothy  Haas,  Editor  &  Writer 
Chicago,  Illinois 

Edited  by 

Francis  J.  Pettis,  Associate  Director 
Illinois  Humanities  Council 


LITERATURE  OF  ILLINOIS: 
EUROPEAN  ETHNICS 

Compiled  by  Babette  Inglehart 


Because  many  of  the  books  in  this  bibliography  are 
out  of  print  or  are  not  readily  available  to  the  reading  public, 
the  complier  is  grateful  to  the  work  of  Clarence  Andrews 
(Chicago  In  Story)  and  Thomas  L.  Kilpatrick  and  Patsy-Rose 
Hoshiko  (Illinois!  Illinois!)  whose  books  have  provided 
much  of  the  material  included  below.  Works  currently  in 
print  are  indicated  by  a  double  asterisk  (**).  Information 
about  works  in  print  is  based  on  the  1984  edition  of  Books 
in  Print. 

The  paucity  of  such  works  in  print, while  discouraging  to 
the  teachers  and  librarians  wishing  to  introduce  students  to 
the  richness  of  material  about  ethnic  life  in  Illinois,  will 
perhaps  encourage  publishers  to  consider  reissuing  long  neg¬ 
lected  titles. 


REFERENCE  WORKS 

Andrews,  Clarence  A.  Chicago  in  Story:  A  Literary  His¬ 
tory.  Iowa  City:  Midwest  Heritage  Publishing  Com¬ 
pany,  1982. 


107 


i 


Buttlar,  Lois  and  Wynar,  Lubomyr,  R.  Buildinf>  Ethnic 
Collections:  An  Annotated  Guide  for  School  Media 
Centers  and  Public  Libraries.  Littleton,  Colorado: 
Libraries  Unlimited,  Inc.,  1977. 

Grey.  Lennox  Bouton.  “Chicago  and  'The  Great  Amer¬ 
ican  Novel’  A  Critical  Approach  to  the  American 
Epic.”  Ph.D  dissertation.  University  of  Chicago, 
1935. 

Inglehart,  Babette  F.,  and  Mangione,  Anthony  R.  The 
Image  of  Pluralism  in  American  Literature:  An  An¬ 
notated  Bibliography  on  the  American  Experience 
of  European  Ethnic  Groups.  New  York:  Institute  on 
Pluralism  and  Group  Identity,  1974. 

Kilpatrick,  Thomas  L.,  and  Hoshiko,  Patsy-Rose.  II- 

^  linois!  Illinois!:  An  annotated  bibliography  of  fic¬ 
tion.  Metuchen,  N.J.  and  London:  The  Scarecrow 
Press,  Inc.,  1979. 

DUTCH  IN  ILLINOIS 

*  *  Ferber,  Edna.  So  Big.  Garden  City,  N.Y.:  Doubleday, 
Page  &  Company  1924.  Reprinted  by  Fawcett,  1978. 

The  story  of  Selina  Peake  in  High  Prairie  (Roseland), 
Illinois,  a  community  of  Dutch  truck  gardeners  near 
Chicago.  After  teaching  for  a  short  time  in  High 
Prairie,  Selina  marries  a  solid  Dutch  farmer  and  has 
a  son ,  whom  she  raises  on  her  own  when  her  husband 
dies.  She  takes  over  the  truck  farm  and  markets  her 
produce  in  Chicago.  Novel  won  the  Pulitzer  Prize 
for  Literature. 


Secondary  Sources 

Lagerway,  Walter.  Guide  to  Netherlandic  Studies:  Bib¬ 
liography.  Grand  Rapids,  Michigan:  Calvin  College, 
1964. 


GERMANS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Bradley,  Mary  Hastings.  The  Wine  of  Astonishment . 
New  York:  D.  Appleton  and  Company,  1919. 

Sub-plot  relates  romance  between  a  Chicago  girl  and 
a  German-American  boy  and  allows  the  author  to 
present  both  sides  of  the  German  debate.  (The  war 
with  Germany  had  just  ended.) 

Currier,  Sophronia.  Alice  Tracy:  or,  Faint,  Yet  Pursu¬ 
ing,  A  Sketch  from  Real  Life.  Boston:  E.P.  Dutton 
and  Company,  1868. 

Young  girl  abandoned  on  the  Illinois  prairie  accepts 
the  friendship  of  German  immigrants  and  is  invited 
to  become  the  teacher  in  their  school.  Alice  Tracy 
falls  into  the  category  of  religious  tract. 


*  *  Dreiser,  Theodore.  Jennie  Gerhardt.  New  York  and 
London:  Harper  and  Brothers  Publishers,  1911.  Re-i 
printed  by  Schocken,  1982. 

Set  in  pre-turn  of  the  century  Chicago.  Jenny,  the 
daughter  of  German  immigrants,  endures  betrayal, 
neglect  and  disapproval,  and  resigns  herself  to  a  life 
of  loneliness  and  despair.  Dreiser's  second  novel. 

Fast,  Howard.  The  American:  A  Middle  Western 
Legend.  New  York:  Duell,  Sloan  and  Pearce,  1946. 

The  life  of  John  Peter  Altgeld,  twenty-second  gover¬ 
nor  of  Illinois,  son  of  an  illiterate  German  immigrant, 
and  famous  for  his  controversial  actions  in  the  wake 
of  the  Haymarket  Riot  and  the  Pullman  Strike. 

Fuessle,  Newton.  The  Elail.  New  York:  Moffat,  Yard 
&  Company,  1919. 

Set  in  Chicago  from  1894-1918.  Hero  hates  his  Ger¬ 
man  ancestry,  shuns  his  immigrant  parents  and  is 
determined  to  become  Americanized. 

Harris,  Frank.  The  Bomb.  New  York:  Mitchell  Ken¬ 
nedy,  1909. 

Fictional  account  of  the  Haymarket  affair  of  188f 
focuses  on  Rudolph  Schnaubelt,  the  German  immi¬ 
grant  who  joins  the  Chicago  anarchists  during  the 
labor  unrest  of  1880s  and  sets  off  a  bomb  killing 
eight  policemen. 

Lait,  Jack.  Gus  the  Bus  and  Evelyn,  The  Exquisiti 
Checker,  Garden  City,  N.Y.:  Doubleday,  Page  & 
Company.  1917. 

Shows  the  process  of  Americanization  and  the  prob 
lems  faced  by  recent  Chicago  immigrants  from  Ger 
many,  focusing  on  a  busboy  from  Schleswig-Hols 
tein,  tom  between  sympathies  for  Germany  and  fo 
America  at  the  start  of  World  War  1.  Fifty-eigh 
sketches  which  appeared  in  the  Chicago  Herald. 

Lamb,  Martha.  “Carl  Almendinger’s  Office;  Or.  th' 
Mysteries  of  Chicago.  A  Story  of  the  Present  War. 
Knickerbocker  Magazine  (1862-63).  59-62. 

In  a  novel  about  the  Civil  War.  other  themes  includ 
German  immigration  and  the  publication  of  a  Germa 
language  newspaper  in  Chicago. 

Morris.  Ira.  The  Chicago  Story.  New  York:  Doubleda 
&  Company.  Inc.  1952. 

Depicts  the  rise  and  fall  of  a  Chicago  meat-packin 
family  from  1905  to  1950.  Story  ot  Adolf  Konrac 
who  accumulated  millions,  but  not  without  mthles' 
ness  and  brutality. 

Mundis.  Jerrold.  Gerhardt' s  Children.  New  Yorl 
Atheneum.  1976. 

Five  generations  of  a  Chicago-based  Gemian  fami 


108 


are  probed  deeply  in  an  emotional  exploration  of  a 
family’s  deep-seated  feuds. 

Spitler,  Frank.  Stories  of  New  Egypt.  Bloomington,  Ill. 
Pantagraph  Printing  &  Stationery  Company,  1905. 

Young  German  immigrant  moves  into  Red  Lake 
Prairie  and  encounters  joys  and  hardships  of  frontier 
life.  Takes  place  from  1833  to  1840.  Considerable 
historical  information. 

*  Woiwode,  Larry.  Beyond  the  Bedroom  Wall:  A  Family 
Album.  New  York:  Farrar,  Straus,  Giroux,  1975. 
Reprinted  by  Avon,  1976. 

Family  portrait  of  a  warm,  devoted  German  Catholic 
family  who  moves  from  North  Dakota  to  a  small 
community  near  Pekin,  Illinois.  Four  generations  are 
introduced. 


econdary  Sources: 

Tolzmann,  Don  Henrich.  German-Americana:  A  Bib¬ 
liography.  Metuchen,  N.J.;  The  Scarecrow  Press, 
Inc.,  1975. 

[REEKS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Chamales,  Tom.  Go  Naked  in  the  World.  New  York: 
Charles  Scribner’s  Sons,  1959. 

A  second  generation  Greek  Chicagoan  finds  his  re¬ 
turn  from  World  War  II  a  difficult  adjustment  as  his 
immigrant  father  pressures  him  to  join  the  family 
business.  Setting  is  Winnetka. 

Lee,  Jeanette.  Mr.  Achilles.  New  York:  Dodd,  Mead 
and  Company,  1912. 

A  friendship  develops  between  a  Greek  immigrant 
and  the  young  daughter  of  a  Chicago  millionaire. 
Mr.  Achilles’  stories  of  his  homeland  delight  her. 

*  Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  Days  of  Vengeance.  Garden  City, 
N.Y.:  Doubleday  &  Company,  Inc.,  1983. 

The  most  recent  novel  by  Chicago’s  major  chronicler 
of  the  Greek  community.  Two  young  men  from 
Crete,  one  a  murderer  seeking  escape  and  the  other 
his  pursuer,  a  dutiful  son  who  has  taken  an  oath  of 
vengeance,  are  drawn  together  by  twists  of  fate  in 
the  area  of  Chicago  known  as  Greek  Town. 

Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  A  Dream  of  Kings.  New  York: 
David  McKay  Company,  Inc.,  1966. 

Set  in  Chicago’s  Greek  Town,  the  novel  traces  a  day 
in  the  life  of  Leonidas  Matsoukas,  a  brave  and  deter¬ 
mined  Greek  immigrant,  whose  activities,  legal  and 
illegal,  are  all  focused  on  his  attempt  to  accumulate 
the  airfare  to  take  his  ailing  child  home  to  Greece. 
A  powerful  story  of  a  struggle  against  fate. 


*  *  Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  In  the  Land  of  Morning.  New 

York:  David  McKay  Company,  Inc.,  1973.  Re¬ 
printed  by  Lake  View  Press,  1984. 

Set  in  the  1970s,  this  novel  deals  with  contemporary 
social  problems.  Alex  Rifakis  returns  to  his  Chicago 
home  following  the  Vietnam  war  and  finds  his  family 
in  various  stages  of  trouble  and  despair.  The  aliena¬ 
tion  of  youth  and  changing  sexual  mores  are  recurring 
themes. 

Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  Lion  at  My  Heart.  Boston  and 
Toronto:  Little,  Brown  and  Company,  1959. 

A  first  generation  Greek  immigrant  in  Chicago,  fol¬ 
lowing  World  War  II,  struggles  against  Americani¬ 
zation.  His  goal  is  to  keep  his  sons  within  the  family 
and  the  ethnic  cultural  tradition,  and  maintain  their 
work  at  the  steel  mills  and  their  marriages.  His  at¬ 
tempts  are  frustrated  in  the  case  of  his  older  son. 

*  *  Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  Nick  the  Greek.  Garden  City, 

N.Y.:  Doubleday,  1979.  Reprinted  by  Lake  View 
Press,  1984. 

Nick  Gandalos,  a  penniless  Greek  immigrant  from 
Smyrna,  arrives  in  Chicago  in  1919  determined  to 
go  into  the  importing  business.  Instead  he  gets  caught 
up  in  gambling  fever  and  eventually  becomes  in¬ 
volved  with  the  Mafia. 

Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  The  Odyssey  of  Kostas  Volakis. 
New  York:  David  McKay  and  Company,  Inc. ,  1969. 

Covering  the  years  1919  to  1954,  this  story  traces 
three  generations  of  a  Greek- American  family,  Kos¬ 
tas  and  Katerine  Volakis  and  their  children,  through 
humble  achievement  and  bitter  tragedy,  from  Crete 
to  Chicago. 

Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  Pericles  on  3 1st  Street.  Chicago: 
Quadrangle  Books,  1965. 

A  collection  of  short  stories  seen  through  Greek- 
American  eyes.  The  title  story  tells  of  an  old  Greek 
vendor  with  a  pushcart  of  hot  dogs.  Defiant  and 
burning  with  pride  in  his  heritage,  he  inspires  courage 
in  a  group  of  storekeepers  exploited  by  a  landlord 
they  fear  to  challenge.  Other  stories  illustrate  twists 
of  fate  and  surprise  endings.  Written  with  humor 
and  pathos. 

*  *  Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  Reflections:  A  Writer’ s  Life,  A 

Writer’s  Work.  Chicago:  Lake  View  Press,  1983. 

The  writer  reveals  personal  aspects  of  his  life  and 
work,  including  the  process  by  which  a  writer  turns 
his  raw  experience  into  art.  The  volume  includes  an 
earlier  autobiography,  “Stelmark,"  and  a  description 
of  the  creative  process  in  “Journal  of  a  Novel,  ”  which 
records  his  daily  struggle  with  discipline,  solitude, 
aging  and  death. 


109 


*  *  Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  Stelmark.  New  York;  David 
McKay  Company,  Inc.,  1970.  Reprinted  in  Reflec¬ 
tions.  Chicago:  Lake  View  Press,  1983. 

An  autobiography  which  recounts  Petrakis’  coming 
of  age  in  Chicago  during  the  depression,  the  youngest 
son  in  the  large  family  of  a  Greek  Orthodox  priest 
who  had  emigrated  from  Crete.  He  finds  his  identity 
as  a  writer  among  the  immigrants  of  the  close-knit 
Greek  community. 

Petrakis,  Harry  Mark.  The  Waves  of  Night  and  Other 
Stories.  New  York:  David  McKay  and  Company, 
Inc.,  1969. 

A  second  collection  of  short  stories,  most  of  which 
depict  the  residents  in  an  area  of  Chicago  known  as 
^  Greek  Town.  The  title  novella  shows  one  week  in 
the  despairing  life  of  an  aging  Greek  priest.  Other 
subjects  include  the  weakening  of  blood  lines,  and 
father-son  conflicts. 


Secondary  Sources 

Cutsumbris,  Michael  N.  A  Bibliographical  Guide  to 
Materials  on  Greeks  in  the  United  States,  1 890- J  968. 
Staten  Island,  N.Y.;  Center  for  Migration  Studies, 
1970. 


HUNGARIANS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Jackson,  Helen  Hunt.  “Four-Leafed  Clover.”  Scribner’s 
8  (1874);  213-23,  294-303.  Republished  in  Sa.xe 
Holm's  Stories.  Second  Series  (1878):  1-65. 

Civil  War  story  of  a  Chicago  Hungarian  immigrant 
at  the  battle  of  Gettysburg. 

Secondary  Sources 

Konnyu,  Leslie.  History  of  American-Hungarian  Liter¬ 
ature.  St.  Louis:  American  Hungarian  Review,  1962. 


IRISH  IN  ILLINOIS 

Allen,  Steve.  The  Wake.  Garden  City,  N.  Y.:  Doubleday 
&  Company,  Inc.,  1972. 

First  and  second  generation  Irish  family  during  the 
depression  in  Chicago  is  examined  as  it  disintegrates. 

Brinig,  Myron.  May  Flavin.  New  York  and  Toronto: 
Farrar  and  Rinehart,  Inc.,  1938. 

Detailed  account  of  life  in  Chicago’s  Irish  settlement 
from  the  1880s  to  World  War  1.  Heroine  faces  pov¬ 
erty,  desertion,  death  of  her  children  and  parents, 
but  is  tough  enough  to  survive. 


Corbett,  Elizabeth  Frances.  Light  of  Other  Days:  A 
Novel  of  Mount  Royal.  New  York  and  London;  D. 
Appleton-Century  Company,  Inc.,  1938. 

Reilly  family  emigrates  from  Ireland  to  the  little 
northern  Illinois  community  of  Mount  Royal  in  the  i 
1840s.  A  warm  and  believable  novel  which  traces  | 
almost  seven  decades  of  the  family  and  the  commu-  j 
nity,  focusing  on  the  Americanization  process. 

Corbett,  Elizabeth  Frances.  The  Old  Callahan  Place,  j: 
New  York:  Appleton-Century,  1966.  | 

Concerning  the  life  of  Molly  Callahan,  eldest  daugh-  ■ 
ter  of  an  Irish-American  family  living  in  a  Chicago  , 
suburb  in  the  early  twentieth  century. 

Dunne,  Finely  Peter  |i 

Dunne  created  “Mr.  Dooley”  while  writing  for  the  ' 
Chicago  Post  during  the  1890s.  A  shrewd  and  ii 
opinionated  saloon  keeper,  Dooley  expounded  jj 
weekly  on  any  and  all  topics  that  appealed  to  him.  ,, 
More  than  seven  hundred  columns  were  written  by  i 
Dunne,  many  collected  in  the  titles  that  follow.  They  | 
voice  public  sentiment  and  mirror  the  times  accu-  , 
rately. 

*  *  Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Dissertations  by  Mr.  Dooley.  Lon¬ 

don  and  New  York:  Harper  and  Brothers  Publishers,  ( 
1906.  Reprinted  by  Scholarly  Press,  Inc.,  1977.  ■ 

*  *  Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Mr.  Dooley  at  His  Best.  New  i 

York:  Charles  Scribner's  Sons.,  1938.  Reprinted  by  I 
Shoe  String  Press,  Inc.,  1969.  j 

*  *  Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Mr.  Dooley  In  Peace  and  in  War.  i 

Boston:  Small,  Maynard  &  Company,  1898.  Re-i 
printed  by  Greenwood  Press,  1969. 

*  *  Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Mr.  Dooley  in  the  Hearts  of  His 

Countrymen.  Boston:  Small,  Maynard  and  Com-  i 
pany,  1899.  Reprinted  by  Greenwood  Press,  1969.  i 

*  *  Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Mr.  Dooley’s  Opinions.  New  ' 

York:  R.H.  Russell,  Publisher.  1901.  Reprinted  by 
Scholarly  Press  Inc.,  1977. 

*  *  Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Mr.  Dooley's  Philosophy.  New  | 

York:  R.H.  Russell,  Publisher.  1900.  Reprinted  by  i 
Arden  Library,  1978. 

*  *  Dunne,  Finley  Peter.  Mr.  Doo/ev.  New 

York:  R.  H.  Russell,  Publisher,  1902.  Reprinted  by  > 
Greenwood  Press. 

Farrell,  James  T.  The  Face  of  Time.  New  York;  The 
Vanguard  Press.  Inc.,  1953. 

The  first  of  five  novels  about  Danny  O'Neill,  an 
Irish  American  boy  growing  up  in  a  lower-middle 
class  family  on  Chicago's  south  side.  Highly  au¬ 
tobiographical,  this  first  novel  shows  Danny  as  a 
small  child  being  raised  by  immigrant  grandparents, 
an  uncle  and  aunts. 


1 10 


*  Farrell,  James  T.  Father  and  Son.  New  York:  The  Van¬ 

guard  Press,  1940.  Reprinted  by  Ayer  Co.,  n.d. 

Fourth  novel  in  the  Danny  O’Neill  series  follows  his 
struggles  in  parochial  school,  contemplating  the 
priesthood,  and  watching  his  father  die. 

Farrell,  James  T.  Gas-House  McGinty.  New  York:  The 
Vanguard  Press,  1933. 

Portrait  of  men  at  work  in  an  express  company  (re¬ 
flecting  the  author’s  own  experiences),  showing  the 
effects  of  job  pressures,  boring  routines  and  personal 
conflicts. 

Farrell,  James  T.  Lonely  for  the  Future.  Garden  City, 
N.Y.:  Doubleday  and  Company,  Inc.,  1966. 

A  candid  view  of  Bohemian  life  and  restless  Chicago 
youth  in  the  late  1920s.  Tells  of  the  lives  of  Eddie 
Ryan  and  his  friends.  Part  of  Farrell’s  series,  A  Uni¬ 
verse  of  Time. 

Farrell,  James  T.  My  Days  of  Anger.  New  York:  The 
Vanguard  Press,  1943. 

The  last  of  the  series  about  Danny  O’Neill  covers 
the  years  1924-1927  as  Danny  plans  to  leave  for 
New  York  determined  to  seek  a  career  as  a  writer. 

*  Farrell,  James  T.  New  Year’s  Eve! 1929.  New  York:  The 

Smith,  by  arrangement  with  Horizon  Press,  1967. 

A  short  novel  in  which  Danny  O’Neill  is  able  to 
come  to  a  decision  regarding  his  life  as  a  writer, 
during  the  course  of  a  New  Year’s  Eve  party  near 
the  University  of  Chicago. 

*  Farrell,  James  T.  Studs  Lonigan,  A  Trilogy.  New  York: 

The  Vanguard  Press,  1935.  Reprinted  by  Avon, 
1976;  Vanguard,  1979. 

Young  Lonigan  (1933),  the  author’s  first  novel,  is 
a  study  of  a  boy’s  adolescent  years  in  the  Chicago 
streets.  The  trilogy  extends  from  1916  to  1929  and 
depicts  his  gradual  disintegration  and  moral  col¬ 
lapse.  The  second  book.  The  Young  Manhood  of 
Studs  Lonigan  (1934),  and  the  third.  Judgment  Day 
(1935),  complete  the  trilogy,  ending  with  Studs’ 
death.  A  classic. 

*  Farrell,  James  T.  This  Man  and  This  Woman.  New 

York:  The  Vanguard  Press,  Inc.,  1951.  Reprinted 
by  State  Mutual  Books  and  Periodical  Service,  Ltd., 
1981. 

A  short  novel  set  in  Chicago  in  the  late  1940s.  It  is 
the  story  of  an  aging  couple.  Peg  and  Walter  Calla¬ 
han,  plagued  by  forces  dividing  them  which  they 
cannot  understand  or  begin  to  deal  with. 

*  *  Farrell,  James  T.  W/ze/?  7’zwe  fiorn.  New  York:  The 

Smith,  1966.  One  of  the  six  finished  novels  Farrell 
envisioned  as  part  of  a  thirty  volume  series,  The 
Universe  of  Time.  The  central  character  is  Eddie 


Ryan  who  is  first  seen  at  the  University  of  Chicago 
in  the  1920s. 

Farrell,  James  T.  A  World  I  Never  Made.  New  York: 
The  Vanguard  Press,  1936. 

One  of  Farrell’s  most  impressive  achievements,  this 
novel  follows  young  Danny  O’Neill  during  six 
months  of  his  life  in  the  Irish  slums  where  he  begins 
to  learn  the  rules  of  existence  and  survival  from  his 
older  brother. 

Flower,  Elliott.  Policeman  Flynn.  New  York:  The  Cen¬ 
tury  Co.,  1902.  An  Irish  police  officer  in  Chicago 
has  compassion,  feeling  and  a  ready  wit.  Like  Mr. 
Dooley,  he  philosophizes  as  he  practices  his  profession. 

Lawson,  Robert.  The  Great  Wheel.  New  York:  The 
Viking  Press,  1957.  A  young  Irishman  emigrates  to 
Chicago  to  work  on  the  construction  of  the  first  Ferris 
Wheel  built  for  the  World’s  Columbian  Exposition 
of  1893. 

McDougall,  Ella.  Hennessey,  of  Lake  County,  by  Pre¬ 
served  Wheeler,  (pseud.).  Antioch,  Illinois:  Burke 
&  Storms,  Publishers,  1894. 

Seven  vignettes  featuring  Pat  Hennessey  and  his 
opinions  on  diverse  topics  of  interest  to  an  1890s 
audience. 

*  *  Montgomery,  Louise.  Mrs.  Mahoney  of  the  Tenement. 

Boston,  New  York  and  Chicago:  The  Pilgrim  Press, 
1912.  Reprinted  by  Ayer  Co.,  n.d. 

Eight  stories  featuring  a  middle-aged  widow  in 
Chicago’s  Irish  settlement  and  illustrating  the  neigh¬ 
borliness  of  the  city. 

*  *  Powers,  iohnR.  Do  Patent  Leather  Shoes  Really  Reflect 

Up?  Chicago:  Henry  Regnery  Company,  1975.  Re¬ 
printed  by  Warner  Books,  1982. 

Follows  the  high  school  career  of  Eddie  Ryan  at 
Chicago’s  Bremmer  Catholic  High  School  in  the 
early  1960s.  His  adventures  and  misadventures  make 
for  a  delightful  sequel  to  The  Last  Catholic  in 
America. 

*  *  Powers,  John  R.  The  Last  Catholic  in  America.  New 

York:  Saturday  Reviews  Press,  1973.  Reprinted  by 
Robert  Bentley,  Inc.,  1981. 

Eddie  Ryan  reminisces  about  his  years  at  a  South 
Side  Catholic  boy’s  school  in  the  “Seven  Holy 
Tombs”  neighborhood  in  the  1950s.  The  tone  is  both 
cynical  and  pensive. 

*  *  Russell,  Ruth.  Lake  Front.  Chicago:  Thomas  S. 

Rockwell  Company ,  1931.  Reprinted  by  AMS  Press , 
Inc.,  n.d. 

The  major  part  of  the  novel  concerns  two  generations 
of  an  Irish  family  between  1835  and  1894,  but  the 
prologue  and  epilogue  extend  the  time  frame.  The 


111 


novel  focuses  on  Jane  O’Mara  who  arrives  in 
Chicago  as  a  young  girl  in  1835,  her  younger  brother 
James,  whom  she  helps  to  launch  as  a  lawyer,  and 
his  son  who  becomes  a  ruthless  industrial  tyrant. 

Warren,  Maude.  The  Land  of  the  Living.  New  York  and 
London:  Harper  &  Brothers  Publishers,  1908. 

The  story  of  Big  Jim  Callahan,  boss  of  Chicago’s 
political  machine  at  the  turn  of  the  century,  and  the 
orphan,  Hugh  McDermott,  he  attempts  to  rear  as  his 
son. 


Secondary  Sources 

Wittke,  Carl  F.  The  Irish  in  America.  Baton  Rouge: 
Louisiana  State  University  Press,  1956.  Reprinted 
by  Teachers  College  Press,  1973. 

ITALIANS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Ets,  Marie  Hall.  Rosa:  The  Life  of  an  Italian  Immigrant. 
Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1970. 

The  story  of  Rosa,  young  wife  and  mother  from 
Lombardy,  who  emigrates  to  Union,  Missouri  in 
1884,  where  her  husband  finds  work  in  the  mines. 
She  describes  immigrant  life  in  1890s  Chicago  and 
the  impact  of  the  depression  upon  working  people. 
In  vivid  reporting,  the  story  rivals  The  Jungle.  Mrs. 
Ets  and  Rosa  became  friends  at  the  Chicago  Com¬ 
mons  Settlement  House,  and  Mrs.  Ets  wrote  down 
these  accounts  as  Rosa  told  them. 

Coons,  Maurice.  Scarface,  by  Armitage  Trail, 
(pseud). New  York:  Dell,  1959. 

The  rise  and  fall  of  a  Chicago  gangster,  based  on 
the  career  of  A1  Capone,  during  the  1 920s  and  1 930s. 

Hall,  Grace  D.  and  Merlanti,  Ernesto  G.  Honor  Di¬ 
vided.  N.  Y.:  Fleming  H.  Revell  Company,  1935. 

Two  brothers,  sons  of  Sicilian  immigrants,  choose 
opposing  roads  to  wealth  and  success.  One  joins 
Chicago’s  underworld  and  rises  to  prominence  in  the 
illegal  liquor  traffic;  the  other  studies  law  and  be¬ 
comes  a  judge. 

Motley,  Willard.  Knock  on  Any  Door.  New  York  and 
London :  D .  Appleton  Century  Company ,  Inc . ,  1 947 . 

Traces  the  life  of  Nick  Romano  and  how  he  changes 
from  a  1 2-year  old  altar  boy  to  an  unrepentant  crim¬ 
inal  sentenced  to  die  in  the  electric  chair.  Study  of 
the  impact  of  slums  on  child  development. 

Osborn,  Catherine  B.  and  Waterman.  Margaret.  Papa 
Gorski.  New  York:  Harcourt,  Brace  &  World,  Inc., 
1969. 


ConlJict  between  an  old-country  father  and  his  new- 
world  daughters.  Partially  set  in  a  roominghouse  (the 
Velotta  Manor)  owned  by  an  Italian  woman,  “on  the 
fringes  of  the  Campus  of  Lake  Michigan  University,” 
i.e.,  the  Italian  community  near  the  University  of 
Illinois  campus  on  Chicago’s  near-west  side.  I 

I 

Roeburt,  John.  Al  Capone.  New  York:  Pyramid  Books, 
1959. 

fictionalized  biography  of  Capone,  starting  with  his  | 
arrival  in  Chicago  in  1919  and  touching  on  the  major  j 
events  of  the  next  twenty-eight  years.  The  novel  is 
documentary  in  style  with  occasional  lapses  into  fic-  j 

tion.  ' 

I 

Secondary  Sources  j 

I 

Green,  Rose  Basile.  The  Italian- American  Novel:  A 
Document  of  the  Interaction  of  Two  Cultures.- 
Rutherford,  N.J.:  Fairleigh  Dickinson  University 
Press,  1974. 

Peragallo,  Olga.  Italian-American  Authors  and  Their 

Contributions  to  American  Literature.  New  York:  S.  ' 
F.  Vanni,  1949. 


JEWS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Baldwin,  Eugene  F.  and  Eisenberg,  Maurice.  Doctor 
Cavallo.  Peoria,  Illinois:  Press  of  J.  W.  Franks  & 
Sons,  1895. 

A  story  of  anti-Semitism  in  late  19th  century  Peoria,  i 
Dr.  Cavallo  champions  the  rights  of  the  poor  and 
supports  fair  business  practices  while  suffering  at  | 
the  hands  of  bigots. 

1 

*  *  Bellow,  Saul.  The  Adventures  of  Augie  March.  New  I 

York:  The  Viking  Press.  1953.  Reprinted  by  Pen-  • 
guin,  1984. 

The  picaresque  hero,  Augie  March,  begins  life  in  '  j 
the  slums  of  Chicago  in  the  1930s,  adapts  himself  | 
to  the  fast-paced  life  of  the  city  and  attends  the  Uni-  j 
versity  of  Chicago  briefly,  before  taking  off  on  ad-  ! 
ventures  around  the  world. 

*  *  Bellow.  Saul.  Herzog.  New  York:  The  Viking  Press.  i 

1964.  Reprinted  by  Penguin,  1984. 

A  disillusioned  Jewish  college  professor  takes  stock  ' : 
of  his  life  after  the  end  of  his  second  marriage.  He 
returns  to  his  former  home  in  Chicago  to  see  his 
child,  visit  his  elderly  relatives,  and  find  out  where 
he  went  wrong.  We  follow  his  meditations  about 
history,  ideas,  current  events,  and  modem  values. 

*  *  Bellow,  Saul.  Him  With  His  Foot  in  His  Mouth.  New  ’ 

York:  Harper  &  Row,  Publishers,  1984. 


14 


112 


Bellow’s  most  recent  collection  of  short  stories  in¬ 
cludes  three  with  Chicago  settings:  “Zetland:  By  a 
Character  Witness,”  the  portrait  of  an  eccentric  and 
brilliant  artist  as  a  young  man  growing  up  in  Jewish 
Chicago;  “A  Silver  Dish,”  set  in  ethnically  diverse 
South  Chicago;  and  “Cousins,”  in  which  the  narrator 
is  drawn  into  encounters  with  the  Chicago  underworld. 

Bellow,  Saul.  Humboldt’s  Gift.  New  York:  The  Viking 
Press,  1975.  Reprinted  by  Penguin,  1984. 

Bellow  extensively  uses  Chicago  as  a  setting  in  this 
expansive  novel  centering  on  Charles  Citrine,  a 
Chicago  Jew,  “a  man  of  frenzied  and  noble  longings” 
whose  “days  are  cluttered  with  comic  absurdities.” 

Bellow,  Saul.  Mosby's  Memoirs  and  Other  Stories. 
New  York:  The  Viking  Press,  1968.  Reprinted  by 
Penguin,  1984. 

A  collection  of  short  stories  including  one  with  a 
Chicago  setting:  a  social  worker  looks  for  a  welfare 
recipient  in  the  black  ghetto  during  the  depression 
in  “Looking  for  Mr.  Green.” 

Bisno,  Beatrice.  Tomorrow’ s  Bread.  New  York: 
Liveright  Publishing  Corporation,  1938.  Reprinted 
by  AMS  Press,  n.d. 

The  story  of  a  young  Russian-Jewish  immigrant  tailor 
who  unionizes  his  fellow  needle- workers  throughout 
the  Jewish  ghetto  in  the  1890s.  He  becomes  con¬ 
sumed  with  the  union  and  socialism  and  neglects 
family  and  personal  life  for  the  cause. 

Caspary,  Vera.  Thicker  Than  Water.  New  York: 
Liveright  Inc.,  Publishers,  1932. 

The  chronicle  of  three  generations  of  a  Portuguese- 
Jewish  family  in  Chicago  from  the  1880s  until  the 
depression.  The  family’s  original  aristocratic  tenden¬ 
cies  are  gradually  dissipated  through  intermarriage 
and  the  infiltration  of  materialistic  attitudes. 

Elkin,  Stanley.  Searches  and  Seizures.  New  York:  Ran¬ 
dom  House,  1973.  Reprinted  by  David  R.'  Godine, 
Pub.  Inc.,  1978. 

One  of  the  three  novellas,  “The  Condominium”  is 
the  story  of  a  37-year  old  virgin  who  tries  to  assume 
his  father’s  life-style  and  social  position  in  a  Jewish 
housing  complex  in  Chicago. 

Ferber,  Edna.  Cheerful  by  Request.  Garden  City,  N.Y.: 
Doubleday,  Page  &  Company,  1918.  Reprint  by 
Ayer  Co.  of  1918  edition,  n.d. 

Twelve  short  stories  reprinted  from  the  Saturday 
Evening  Post,  Collier’s  and  Metropolitan,  many  con¬ 
cerning  working  women.  Several  portray  Jewish 
women  in  Chicago  who  make  their  living  in  sales 
and  merchandising.  Ferber  chronicles  their  prob¬ 
lems,  ambitions  and  disappointments. 


*  *  Ferber,  Edna.  Fanny  Herself.  New  York:  Grosset  & 

Dunlap  Publishers,  1917.  Reprint  by  Ayer  Co.  of 
1917  edition,  1975. 

After  her  husband’s  death,  Molly  Brandeis  takes  over 
his  variety  store  in  Wisconsin,  and  makes  a  success 
of  it.  Molly  sacrifices  herself  and  her  daughter 
Fanny’s  future  to  send  her  violinist  son  to  Europe. 
After  Molly’s  death,  Fanny  goes  to  Chicago  and 
begins  a  successful  career  in  the  mail-order  business. 
Molly  is  an  idealized  portrait  of  her  mother,  accord¬ 
ing  to  Ferber  herself. 

*  *  Ferber,  Edna.  A  Peculiar  Treasure.  Cleveland  and  New 

York:  The  World  Publishing  Company,  1939.  Re¬ 
printed  by  Doubleday  &  Co.,  Inc.,  1971. 

Ferber’s  autobiography,  parts  of  which  are  devoted 
to  her  years  in  Chicago.  She  records  aspects  of  Jewish 
life,  including  the  Maxwell  Street  Settlement  and 
the  Jewish  Temple  on  Grand  Boulevard  where  the 
famous  Rabbi  Emil  Hirsch  presided. 

*  *  Halper,  Albert.  The  Chute.  New  York:  The  Viking 

Press,  1937.  Reprinted  by  AMS  Press,  n.d. 

Paul  Sussman  dreams  of  being  an  architect  but  family 
poverty  forces  him  to  work  for  $12  a  week  at  a  mail 
order  company  in  Chicago.  Halper  portrays  the  dead¬ 
end  world  of  workers  reduced  to  machines  in  a  1930s 
setting. 

Halper,  Albert.  The  Golden  Watch.  New  York:  Henry 
Holt  and  Company,  1953. 

Autobiographical  sketches  of  a  youth  growing  up 
Jewish  on  Chicago’s  west  side  before  World  War  1. 
They  trace  the  hero,  David,  from  ages  eight  to  six¬ 
teen,  and  his  graduation  from  John  Marshall  High 
School. 

Halper,  Albert.  On  the  Shore:  Young  Writer  Remember¬ 
ing  Chicago.  New  York:  The  Viking  Press,  1934. 

Fifteen  autobiographical  sketches  recreate  Halper’ s 
youth  on  the  west  side,  his  family  life,  his  father’s 
grocery  store,  his  immigrant  aunts  and  uncles,  and 
many  Chicago  landmarks — as  seen  by  the  writer  who 
left  Chicago  for  the  literary  opportunities  of  New 
York.  The  family  is  seen  in  a  more  tragic,  determinis¬ 
tic  vein  than  in  later  sketches  of  the  same  material . 

Halper,  Albert.  Sons  of  the  Fathers.  New  York  and  Lon¬ 
don:  Harper  &  Brothers,  Publishers,  1940. 

Portrays  the  reactions  of  Saul  Bergman,  a  Russian 
immigrant  and  small  grocery  owner  in  Chicago,  and 
his  great  distaste  for  war.  Having  come  to  the  U.S. 
in  search  of  freedom  and  in  the  hope  that  his  children 
might  not  have  to  fight  in  wars,  he  lives  to  see  one 
son  die  on  a  French  battlefield  and  another  become 
a  draft  dodger. 


113 


Hecht,  Ben.  A  Thousand  and  One  Afternoons  in  Chi- 
cafio.  Chicago:  Covici-McGee,  1922. 

These  short  sketches  and  stores  originally  appeared 
in  Hecht's  column  in  the  Chicago  Daily  News. 
Among  those  which  portray  Jewish  life  in  Chicago, 
often  tongue-in-cheek,  are  “Mottka,”  “Mr.  Winkel- 
berg,”  and  “Pitzela’s  Son.” 

Hecht,  Ben.  and  Goodman,  Kenneth  Sawyer.  The  Won¬ 
der  Hat  and  Other  One  Act  Plays.  New  York  and 
London:  A.  Appleton  &  Co.,  1925. 

The  two  writers  collaborated  on  five  plays  before 
Goodman’s  untimely  death  in  World  War  I.  Of  these, 
“An  Idyll  of  the  Shops”  is  the  only  one  set  in  Chicago. 

It  takes  place  in  a  small  garment  factory  on  the  west 
I  side  and  focuses  on  a  romance  between  two  sewing 
machine  operators,  one  of  whom  is  fired  by  the  fac¬ 
tory  owner  and  the  other  is  dying  of  tuberculosis. 

Howland,  Bette.  W-3.  New  York:  The  Viking  Press, 
1974. 

The  author’s  account  of  her  hospitalization  in  a  psy¬ 
chiatric  ward  following  a  suicide  attempt  focuses  on 
her  fellow  patients  and  ward  life.  Sections  on  herself 
and  her  family  are  candid. 

Howland,  Bette.  Blue  in  Chicago.  New  York:  Harper  & 
Row,  1978. 

Six  short  stories  centering  on  people  and  events 
drawn  from  the  author’s  working-class  Jewish  back¬ 
ground  in  Chicago.  A  book  about,  love,  alienation 
and  endurance.  Her  voice  is  fiercely  straight-for¬ 
ward,  angry,  warm-hearted  and  distinctive. 

Howland,  Bette.  Things  To  Come  and  Go.  Three  Stor¬ 
ies.  New  York.  Knopf,  1983. 

Portrays  ordinary  people  in  ordinary  circumstances 
and  the  inner  lives  that  exist  beneath  humdrum  sur¬ 
faces,  without  sentimentality  and  with  great  power. 
“Birds  of  a  Feather”  depicts  the  Abarbanels — a 
Jewish  clan — as  seen  by  one  of  their  younger  mem¬ 
bers. 

*  Levin,  Meyer.  The  Oid  Bunch.  New  York:  Simon  and 

Schuster,  1937.  Reprinted  by  Citadel,  1985. 

A  novel  of  Chicago  in  the  naturalistic  mode,  it  pieces 
together  the  lives  of  about  twenty  friends,  from  their 
adolesence  in  1921  to  the  Chicago  World’s  Fair  ot 
1933.  As  second-generation  Americans  they  are 
rapidly  giving  up  their  parents’  traditions  and  moving 
into  the  middle  class  through  careers  in  sports,  law, 
medicine  and  the  arts. 

*  Motley,  Willard.  We  Fished  All  Night.  New  York:  Ap- 

pleton-Century-Crofts,  Inc.,  1951.  Reprinted  by 
AMS  Press,  n.d. 

Using  the  lives  of  three  young  Chicago  men  repre¬ 
senting  different  backgrounds.  Motley  exposes  the 


techniques  of  a  corrupt  political  machine.  One  of 
the  men  is  Aaron,  a  quiet  would-be  Jewish  poet, 
who  enlists  in  the  Army  to  please  his  father. 

Papier,  Judith  Bernard.  The  Past  and  Present  of  Solo-  I 
mon  Sorge.  Boston:  Houghton  Mifflin  Company,  ; 
1967.  j 

n  Evanston  professor  comes  to  terms  with  his  Jewish  | 
background  and  faces  his  weaknesses  and  strengths  j 

when  his  wife  of  29  years  disappears.  ^ 

Rosenfeld,  Isaac.  Passage  From  Home.  New  York:  The  I 
Dial  Press,  1946.  ' 

An  American-Jewish  family  novel  set  in  Chicago 
and  revolving  around  a  precocious  15-year  old  who 
engineers  an  affair  between  his  aunt  and  a  footloose 
cousin,  thus  setting  off  a  complex  re-alignment  of 
family  relationships. 

Ross,  Sam.  The  Sidewalks  Are  Free.  New  York:  Farrar. 
Straus  and  Company,  1950.  Reprinted  by  Second 
Chance  Press,  1984. 

The  Melov  family  of  Ukrainian  Jews  learn  to  cope 
with  the  new  world  in  Chicago  of  1918.  Young 
Herschel  gets  his  education  on  the  streets  as  well  as 
in  the  public  schools. 

Ross,  Sam.  Solomon’s  Palace.  New  York:  Delacorte 
Press,  1973. 

The  story  of  Joey  Solomon,  a  small  time  hood  fron- 
Chicago  who  moves  west,  achieves  success  as  a  bos? 
of  gambling  and  vice,  but  ultimately  meets  his  ruifi 
in  Las  Vegas. 

Ross,  Sam.  Someday,  Boy.  New  York:  Farrar,  Strau* 
and  Company,  1948. 

Benny  Gordon  grows  up  on  Chicago's  west  side  it 
the  1920s.  Gifted  with  confidence  and  drive,  Benn; 
tries  first  for  success  as  a  swimmer  and  later  as  ; 
businessman,  but  opportunities  and  luck  do  not  comi 
his  way. 

*  *  Roth,  Philip.  Letting  Co.  New  York:  Random  House 
1962.  Reprinted  by  Farrar,  Straus  and  Giroux,  Inc. 
1962. 

Set  mainly  in  Chicago  and  in  the  Hyde  Park  neigh 
borhood  around  the  University  of  Chicago,  Roth' 
novel  probes  the  mind  ot  Gabe  Wallach,  an  Englis 
professor,  and  his  interactions  with  family,  co 
leagues,  and  lovers. 

Sattley.  Helen.  Shadow  Across  the  Campus.  New  Yorl 
Dodd,  Mead  &  Company,  1957. 

A  depiction  of  college  life  in  the  1950s,  set  at  Nortl 
western  University.  The  problem  of  anti-Semitisi 
in  sorority  life  is  a  major  theme. 


Schaeffer,  Susan  Fromberg.  Falling.  New  York;  The 
Macmillan  Company,  1973.  Reprinted  by  Avon, 
1982. 

Jewish  graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Chicago 
attempts  suicide.  The  novel  chronicles  her  recovery, 
with  flashbacks  to  scenes  of  pain  and  disappointment 
that  led  her  to  the  act.  A  spirit  of  optimism  prevails 
in  spite  of  the  gloomy  subject. 

Schiller,  Cicely.  Maybe  Next  Year.  New  York:  Prentice- 
Hall,  Inc.,  1947. 

Rose  Weber’s  life,  from  that  of  a  young  girl  working 
in  Chicago  and  engaged  to  a  soldier  to  her  gradual 
moral  decline,  facing  a  bleak  and  lonely  future  in 
the  early  1950s,  is  believable  and  moving. 

Siegel,  Sam.  Hey,  Jewboy.  Chicago:  S  and  G  Releasing 
Company,  1967. 

Sammy,  an  orphan  at  eleven,  starts  his  career  by 
selling  newspapers  but  soon  becomes  entrapped  in 
Chicago’s  prostitution  traffic  and  in  bootlegging.  By 
age  twenty  he  is  in  jail.  A  novel  in  memoir  form 
which  captures  an  aspect  of  the  life  of  the  Jewish 
community  in  Chicago  in  the  1 920s  in  realistic  detail . 

Simon,  Philip,  Cleft  Roots.  Chicago;  Priam  Press,  Inc., 
1975. 

A  novel,  set  partly  at  the  University  of  Illinois,  about 
intermarriage  in  the  1950s.  Only  after  years  of  an¬ 
guish  does  the  central  character  Murray  Stem  recog¬ 
nize  his  Jewish  heritage. 

Stem,  Lucille.  The  Midas  Touch.  New  York:  The  Cit¬ 
adel  Press,  1957. 

A  second-generation  Jewish  Chicagoan,  trying  to 
escape  the  pains  of  anti-Semitism,  marries  a  Gentile 
and  devotes  himself  obsessively  to  success  in  busi¬ 
ness..  Familiar  story  of  losses  in  personal  relation¬ 
ships  and  moral  decline  as  financial  success  is 
achieved. 

Tobenkin,  Elias.  God  of  Might.  New  York:  Minton, 
Balch  &  Company,  1925. 

Samuel  Waterman,  a  Jewish  department  store  owner, 
and  an  emigrant  from  Russia,  achieves  wealth  but 
not  social  acceptance.  Under  pressures  of  the  alien 
society,  he  reverts  to  his  orthodox  heritage.  Novel 
deals  boldly  with  questions  of  mixed  marriage,  pre¬ 
judice  and  adjustment. 

Tobenkin,  Elias.  Witte  Arrives.  New  York:  Frederick 
A.  Stokes  Company,  Publishers,  1916.  Reprinted 
by  Irvington  Publishers,  n.d. 

An  extended  unsensational  treatment  of  the  immi¬ 
grant  experience:  the  Americanization  of  a  Russian- 
Jewish  boy  who  works  his  way  through  high  school 
and  university  in  Illinois  to  become  a  Chicago  repor¬ 
ter.  His  struggles  in  New  York  as  editor  of  a  liberal 


weekly;  his  marriage  to  a  Gentile;  and  the  problems 
of  joblessness,  religious  discrimination  and  the  class 
system  are  forcefully  presented. 

Yaffe,  James.  What’s  the  Big  Hurry?  Boston  and  To¬ 
ronto:  Little,  Brown  and  Company,  1954. 

A  penniless  17-year  old  comes  to  Chicago  and  in 
time  becomes  a  respected  member  of  the  business 
community,  until  the  stock  market  crash  of  1929. 
The  story  is  told  by  his  nephew,  with  sympathy. 

Secondary  Sources 

Guttman,  Allen.  The  Jewish  Writer  in  America:  Assim¬ 
ilation  and  the  Crisis  of  Identity.  New  York:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1971. 

Liptzin,  Sol.  The  Jew  in  American  Literature.  New 
York:  Bloch,  1966. 

Mersand,  Joseph.  Traditions  in  American  Literature:  A 
Study  of  Jewish  Characters  and  Authors.  Port 
Washington,  New  York:  Kennikat  Press,  1968. 

LITHUANIANS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Sinclair,  Upton.  The  Jungle.  New  York:  Doubleday, 
Page  and  Company,  1906.  Reprinted  by  Buccaneer 
Books,  1981. 

Set  in  Chicago’s  infamous  meat-packing  plants.  Jur- 
gis  Rudkus  struggles  against,  but  is  no  match  for, 
the  foremen’s  immoral  practices,  the  real  estate 
shark’s  trickery,  or  the  corrupt  political  machine.  His 
only  salvation  is  to  embrace  socialism. 


Secondary  Sources 

Balys,  Jonas,  comp.  Lithuania  and  Lithuanians:  A  Sel¬ 
ect  Bibliography.  New  York:  Praeger,  1961. 

NORWEGIANS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Matson,  Norman.  Day  of  Fortune.  N.p.,  1928. 

Follows  Norwegian  couple  to  Chicago  where  they 
are  married  just  after  the  Fire.  Success  eludes  them 
in  Chicago  and  they  move  westward. 

*  *  Webster,  Henry  Kitchell.  Who  is  the  Next?  Indianapolis: 
Bobbs-Merrill  Company,  Publishers,  1931.  Re¬ 
printed  by  Garland  Publishers,  n.d. 

Romantic  mystery  novel  about  a  Norwegian  immi¬ 
grant  who  comes  to  Chicago  on  the  night  of  the  Fire 
and  later  builds  a  luxurious  estate  where  he  is  mur¬ 
dered. 


Secondary  Sources 

Skardal,  Dorothy  Burton.  The  Divided  Heart:  Scandi¬ 
navian  Immigrant  Experience  Through  Literary 
Sources.  Lincoln;  University  of  Nebraska  Press, 
1974. 

POLES  IN  ILLINOIS 

Algren,  Nelson.  Never  Come  Morning.  With  an  Intro¬ 
duction  by  Richard  Wright.  New  York  and  London: 
Harper  &  Brothers  Publishers,  1942. 

Sordid  story  of  Bruno  “Lefty“  Bicek,  young  Polish 
fighter  trying  to  break  into  boxing.  Harsh  portrayal 
of  Chicago’s  south  side. 

*  *  Algren,  Nelson.  The  Neon  Wilderness.  Garden  City, 

N.Y.:  Doubleday  &  Company,  Inc.,  1947.  Reprinted 
by  Peter  Smith,  1960. 

Eighteen  short  stories  of  depressing  life  in  Chicago’s 
slums  of  the  near  west  side. 

*  *  Algren,  Nelson.  The  Man  with  the  Golden  Arm.  Garden 

City,  N.Y.:  Doubleday  &  Company,  Inc.,  1949. 
Reprinted  by  Penguin,  1977. 

Frankie  Majcinek,  war  hero  and  card-dealer,  spends 
his  life  with  Polish-American  derelicts  in  the  Chicago 
underworld. 

Alpine,  Dale.  Marie  Naimska:  A  Saga  of  Chicago.  Phil¬ 
adelphia;  Dorrance  and  Company,  1954. 

A  well-established  Polish  family  leaves  Poland  and 
settles  in  Chicago. 

*  *  Motley,  Willard.  We  Fished  All  Night.  New  York:  Ap- 

pleton-Century-Crofts,  Inc.,  1951.  Reprinted  by 
AMS  Press,  n.d. 

A  young  Polish  man  is  drafted  into  World  War  II 
and  later  casts  aside  his  ideals  tor  a  political  career 
in  Chicago. 

Secondary  Sources 

Petras,  John  W.  “Polish-Americans  in  Sociology  and 
Fiction.”  Polish-American  Studies  21:  16-22. 

Wolanin,  A.S.  “American  Poles  in  Fiction.”  Polish- 
American  Studies  8:  39-43. 

Zohrowski,  Walter.  "Polish  Americans  in  Fiction.”  Po¬ 
lish-American  Studies  16;  62-64. 

SLAVS  IN  ILLINOIS 

Babcock,  Bemie.  With  Claw  and  Fang:  A  Fact  Story  in 


I 


a  Chicago  Setting.  Indianapolis:  Clean  Politics  Pub¬ 
lishing  Co.,  1911. 

Set  in  Chicago  in  the  1880s,  a  Russian  immigrant 
becomes  involved  with  the  anarchist  movement. 

*  *  Dybek,  Stuart.  Childhood  and  Other  Neighborhoods. 
New  York;  The  Viking  Press,  1980. 

Eleven  short  stories  abut  Chicago  Slavic  Catholics, 
tracing  life  in  the  old  neighborhood,  growing  up, 
conflicts  of  family,  faith  and  friendship,  and  a  por¬ 
trait  of  the  emerging  artist. 

Ebel,  Camille.  The  Land  of  Plenty .  New  York,  Wash¬ 
ington,  and  Hollywood;  Vantage  Press,  1960. 

Set  in  Chicago  in  1865.  Czech  immigrants  struggle 
with  assimilation. 

Judson,  Clara.  The  Lost  Violin:  They  Came  from  Bo¬ 
hemia.  Boston:  Houghton  Mifflin  Company;  The 
Riverside  Press  Cambridge,  1947. 

Impressions  of  Bohemian  family  life  in  Chicago  dur¬ 
ing  the  World’s  Columbian  Exposition. 

Kurtz,  Ann.  Pendy.  Charlotte,  North  Carolina;  Heri¬ 
tage  House,  1960. 

Disinherited  Russian  nobleman  immigrates  to 
America  during  the  1890s.  His  young  daughter  takes 
on  responsibilities  for  the  family. 

Nichols,  Edward  J.  Hunky  Johnny.  Boston:  Houghton 
Mifflin  Company;  The  Riverside  Press  Cambridge. 
1945. 

Set  in  Slovak  districts  of  Gary  and  Chicago  during 
Prohibition.  The  college  educated  son  of  a  speakeasy 
owner  and  the  brother  of  a  mobster  struggles  with 
self-identity. 

Ziegler,  Elsie  Reif.  The  Face  in  the  Stone.  New  York. 
London  and  Toronto;  Longmans.  Green  and  Co.. 
1959. 

Serbian  youth  comes  to  Chicago  in  1849.  works  as 
a  stonecutter  and  becomes  involved  in  labor  prob¬ 
lems. 

Secondary  Sources 

Capek,  Thomas.  The  Czechs  (Bohemians)  in  America 
Boston:  Houghton.  Miftlin.  1920.  Reprinted  by 
AMS  Press.  1969. 

Manning.  Clarence  A.  Ukrainian  Literature.  Studies  q 
the  Leading  Authors.  Jersey  City.  N.  J.:  Lkrainiai 
National  Association.  1944.  Reprinted.  New  York 
Books  for  Libraries  Press.  1971. 

Prpic.  George  J.  The  Croat  ion  Immigrants  in  America 
New  York:  Philosophical  Library  .  1971. 


Roucek,  Joseph  S.  American  Slavs:  A  Bibliography. 
New  York:  Bureau  of  Intercultural  Education,  1944. 
Reprinted  by  the  author,  1970. 


l^EDES  IN  ILLINOIS 

Budd,  Lillian.  April  Snow.  Philadelphia  &  New  York: 
J.B.  Lippincott  Co.,  1951.  Reprinted  by  Avon, 
1979. 

First  volume  of  trilogy  depicts  a  couple,  the  Kris- 
tianssons,  on  an  island  farm  in  their  native  Sweden, 
before  emigration  to  America. 

Budd,  Lillian.  Land  of  Strangers .  Philadelphia:  Lippin¬ 
cott,  1953. 

Kristiansson’s  son  Karl  comes  to  Chicago  looking 
for  a  land  of  wealth  and  freedom  in  the  1890s  but 
his  dreams  never  materialize.  His  daughter  Sigrid  is 
orphaned  at  seventeen. 

Budd,  Lillian.  April  Harvest.  New  York:  Duell,  Sloan 
&  Pearce,  1959. 

Final  novel  of  trilogy  follows  Sigrid  in  Chicago  from 
1900  to  World  War  I  as  she  struggles  with  spirit  and 
resourcefulness  to  support  herself  and  get  an  educa¬ 
tion. 


Engstrand,  Stuart.  They  Fought  for  Paradise .  New  York 
and  London:  Harper  &  Brothers,  Publishers,  1939. 

Story  of  the  founding  of  Bishop  Hill  in  the  1840s. 
Eric  Jansson,  a  religious  fanatic,  and  a  small  band 
of  women  flee  to  America  to  found  a  religious  col¬ 
ony;  this  is  the  story  of  one  couple  who  follow  him 
from  Sweden  to  Illinois. 

Jackson,  Margaret  Weymouth.  Sara  Thornton.  Indian¬ 
apolis:  The  Bobbs-Merrill  Company,  Publishers, 
1933. 

Setting  is  turn-of-the-century  Chicago  in  the  Swedish 
settlement  near  Avondale.  Sara  and  Karl  Mueller,  a 
German-American  boy,  share  an  unfulfilled  love 
until  they  sever  family  ties  and  begin  life  together. 

Phillips,  Leon.  When  the  Wind  Blows.  New  York:  Far¬ 
rar,  Straus  and  Cudahy,  1956. 

Wealthy  Chicagoan  marries  a  Swedish  girl  but  mar¬ 
riage  flounders  because  of  different  social  and 
economic  backgrounds.  She,  however,  is  determined 
to  salvage  it.  Set  in  Chicago  during  the  1930s. 

Secondary  Sources 

Skardal,  Dorothy  Burton.  The  Divided  Heart:  Scandi¬ 
navian  Immigrant  Experience  through  Literacy 
Sources.  Lincoln:  University  of  Nebraska  Press, 
1974. 


117 


h  <4 


-T 


t 


'r  .  '  *  * 

f 

■  hr<f  fTOJ^ 

Fr^. 

■  ’■ji*' 


REFERENCES 


LITERATURE  OE  ILLINOIS: 
THE  AFRO-AMERICAN 
EXPERIENCE 


Compiled  by  Steven  Cameron  Newsome 


^fro-American  authors  have  made  major  contributions  to 
le  literary  heritage  of  Illinois.  The  works  created  by  these 
len  and  women  include  critically  acclaimed  poetry,  fiction 
nd  dramatic  literature  as  well  as  works  of  scholarship  which 
re  used  as  standard  textbooks  throughout  the  country. 

’he  selected  bibliography  which  follows  is  not  meant  to  be 
omprehensive,  but  is  instead  a  representative  cross-section 
if  intellectual  and  creative  endeavors  by  black  authors  who 
k'ere  bom,  or  who  lived  or  worked  in  Illinois  for  significant 
leriods  of  times.  Some,  such  as  Brooks,  Hughes,  and  Wright, 
re  familiar  names  to  students  and  scholars  of  American 
iterature.  Others  such  as  Burroughs,  Dunham,  and  Rollins 
re  known  primarily  for  work  other  than  their  writing. 

^s  might  be  expected  most  of  these  writers  live  or  lived  in 
he  Chicago  area.  This  can  be  attributed  to  several  historical 
ind  sociological  factors  such  as  the  “Great  Migration”  of 
he  early  20th  century,  the  existence  of  major  educational 
nstitutions,  and  Chicago’s  long-standing  role  as  a  major 
:enter  for  Afro-American  cultural  activity.  The  role  of  edu- 
lational  institutions  such  as  Northwestern  and  the  Univer- 
.ity  of  Chicago  in  the  development  of  black  writers  in  various 
lisciplines  cannot  be  overlooked.  Several  leading  scholars 
)f  the  black  experience  received  some  of  their  training  at 
hese  institutions.  However,  because  of  time  and  space  con- 
itraints,  most  of  these  individuals  are  not  listed.  Many  have 
vritten  books  and  some  have  written  numerous  articles 
vhich  focus  on  all  aspects  of  the  black  experience.  It  is 
toped  that  a  complete  listing  will  be  made  available  in  the 
tear  future. 

Resources  on  the  black  author  are  available  throughout  the 
date.  Among  the  institutions  which  have  sizable  holdings 
an  the  topic  are  Chicago  Public  Library’s  Vivian  G.  Harsh 
Collection  of  Afro-American  History  and  Literature,  North¬ 
eastern  Illinois  University’s  Center  for  Inner-City  Studies, 
Northwestern  University,  the  University  of  Illinois  at 
Chicago,  and  the  University  of  Chicago.  Major  collections 
outside  the  state  include  the  Moorland-Spingam  Center  at 
Howard  University  in  Washington,  D.C.,  and  the  Schom- 
burg  Center  for  Research  in  Black  Culture,  in  New  York 
City. 


If  one  is  interested  in  securing  books  which  provide  insight 

into  the  role  of  the  Afro-American  author,  the  following 

works  are  recommended; 

Barksdale,  Richard,  comp.  Black  Writers  of  America:  A 
Comprehensive  Anthology.  New  York:  Macmillan 
Company,  1972. 

Bigsby,  C.W.E.  The  Second  Black  Renaissance.  Westport, 
CT:  Greenwood  Press,  1980. 

Bone,  Robert.  The  Negro  Novel  in  America.  New  Haven: 
Yale  University  Press,  1958,  1965. 

Christian,  Barbara.  Black  Women  Novelists:  The  Develop¬ 
ment  of  a  Tradition,  1892-1976.  Westport,  CT;  Green¬ 
wood  Press,  1980. 

Davis,  Arthur  P.  From  the  Dark  Tower:  Afro-American 
Writers  1900-1960.  Washington:  Howard  University 
Press,  1982. 

Evans,  Mari,  ed.  Black  Women  Writers  ( 1950-1980):  A  Crit¬ 
ical  Evaluation.  New  York:  Doubleday  Press,  1983. 

Rush,  Theressa  G.  Black  American  Writers  Past  and  Pre¬ 
sent:  A  Biographical  and  Bibliographical  Dictionary. 
Metuchen,  N.J.:  Scarecrow  Press,  1975. 

Schraufnagel,  Noel.  From  Apology  to  Protest:  The  Black 
American  Novel.  Deland,  FL:  Everett/Edwards,  Inc., 
1973. 


This  is,  of  course,  not  a  comprehensive  list  of  reference 
materials  on  Afro-American  literature,  but  it  should 
be  helpful  to  those  wanting  to  begin  research  on  the 
topic .  Often ,  books ,  reviews  and  other  types  of  articles 
on  individual  authors  can  be  located  through  standard 
reference  works  and  in  literary  periodical  indices. 

Books 

Non-fiction,  fiction,  poetry  and  dramatic  literature. 

In  order  to  make  the  following  bibliography  useful  in  locat¬ 
ing  works  by  black  authors,  those  items  which  are  not  listed 
in  a  1984-85  Books  in  Print  are  marked  by  an  asterisk  (*). 
As  a  rule,  poetry  will  not  be  annotated,  nor  will  those  works 
not  available  to  the  compiler.  In  the  cases  of  the  familiar 
and  prolific,  such  as  Franklin,  Hughes,  and  Wright,  works 
will  be  listed  with  selective  annotation  and  commentary. 

BENNETT,  LERONE,  JR. 

Bennett  is  the  senior  editor  of  Ebony  Magazine  and  has 
written  numerous  feature  articles  for  that  publication.  He 


has  served  as  a  guess  lecturer  at  several  colleges  and  univer¬ 
sities  across  the  country.  Mr.  Bennett  resides  in  Chicago, 
and  is  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  Chicago  Public- 
Library. 

Before  the  Mayflower:  A  History  of  Black  America. 
5th  rev.  ed.  Chicago:  Johnson  Publishing  Co.,  1982. 

A  classic  publication,  this  work  is  often  used  in  Black 
Studies  courses  at  the  secondary  and  college  level. 
Covers  the  “African  Past”  to  the  “Second  Reconstruc¬ 
tion”  of  the  1970s  and  1980s.  Provides  excellent 
chronology  and  list  of  black  firsts. 

Black  Power,  U.S.A.:  The  Human  Side  of  Reconstruction 
1867-1877.  Chicago:  Johnson  Publishing  Company, 
1967. 

>  An  absorbing  account  of  black  accomplishments  and 
problems  during  the  aftermath  of  the  Civil  War.  One 
of  the  few  books  that  looks  at  reconstruction  from  a 
black  perspective. 

*  The  Challenge  of  Blackness.  Chicago:  Johnson  Publishing 
Company,  1972. 

A  collection  of  Bennett’s  speeches  and  essays,  this 
work  provides  one  man’s  insight  into  the  need  of 
blacks  to  push  for  political,  social,  and  economic 
power. 

The  Shaping  of  Black  America.  Chicago  Johnson  Publishing 
Company,  1975. 

An  outgrowth  from  Before  the  Mayflower,  this  work 
is  what  the  author  calls  a  “developmental  history” 
which  looks  at  the  forces  that  mold  the  state  of  black 
America.  The  work  is  distinguished  by  illustrations 
by  the  noted  artist,  Charles  White. 

Wade  in  the  Water:  Great  Moments  in  Black  History.  Chi¬ 
cago:  Johnson  Publishing  Company,  1979. 

This  work  takes  a  look  at  some  of  the  major  events 
of  black  history  and  tries  to  place  them  in  a  larger 
perspective.  Events  covered  include  the  first  day  of 
the  Montgomery  Bus  Boycott,  the  Supreme  Court  de¬ 
cision  on  school  segregation,  and  the  passage  of  the 
13th  Amendment. 

What  Manner  of  Man.  4th  rev.  ed.  Chicago:  Johnson  Pub¬ 
lishing  Company,  1976. 

A  biography  of  Dr.  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr. ,  originally 
published  in  1964  is  an  assessment  of  the  man,  the 
leader,  and  the  movement.  It  is  drawn  from  a  number 
of  personal  interviews.  Good  introduction  for  the  gen¬ 
eral  reader. 


BROOKS,  GWENDOLYN 

Ms.  Brooks  is  the  Poet  Laureate  of  Illinois;  the  first  black 
and  the  first  woman  to  be  so  honored.  In  May  1985,  she 
was  appointed  as  the  Consultant  in  Poetry  to  the  Library  of 


Congress  for  1985-1986.  She  is  the  first  black  woman  to 
be  named  to  this  post.  She  is  a  frequent  speaker  across  the  ' 
country  and  has  devoted  much  of  her  time  and  talent  to  the 
development  of  young  writers.  A  winner  ot  a  number  of 
awards,  Ms.  Brooks  is  distinguished  as  being  the  first  black 
to  win  the  Pulitzer  Prize  for  Poetry,  which  was  awarded  in 
1950  for  her  second  volume  of  poetry,  Annie  Allen.  Ms. 
Brooks  resides  in  Chicago. 

Aloneness.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1971. 

Annie  Allen.  Westport,  CT:  Greewood  Press,  1971.  Reprint 
of  1949  Harper  edition. 

This  award  winning  volume  is  divided  into  three  parts: 
notes  from  “The  Childhood  and  the  Girlhotxl,”  “The 
Anniad,”  and,  “The  Womanhood.” 

*  The  Bean  Eaters.  Ann  Arbor:  University  Microfilms  Inter¬ 
national,  1977.  Reprint  of  1960  Harper  and  Row  edi¬ 
tion. 

Beckonings.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1975. 

Bronzeville  Boys  and  Girls.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row, 
1956. 

A  collection  of  poems  for  and  about  children,  this 
work  is  recommended  for  students  in  grades  3-6. 

Family  Pictures.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press.  1970. 

In  the  Mecca.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row,  1968. 

Published  as  her  first  new  collection  during  the  1960s 
this  volume  brings  forth  a  new  Brooks  voice;  one  that 
speaks  of  the  black  experience  in  the  urban  setting, 
one  that  has  a  tone  of  militancy,  power,  and  urgency. 

Maud  Martha:  A  Novel.  New  York:  AMS  press,  1974.  Re¬ 
print  of  1953  Harper  and  Row  edition. 

Brooks’  novel,  a  series  of  vignettes,  is  set  in  Chicago 
during  the  late  1930s  and  1940s.  Her  heroine  can  be 
described,  as  Barbara  Christian  puts  it,  “an  ordinaiy 
woman.” 

Report  From  Part  One.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1972. 

An  autobiographical  work  in  which  Ms.  Brooks  de¬ 
scribes  her  life,  her  work,  her  family,  and  her  young 
students.  She  also  analyzes  her  work  and  provides 
insight  into  her  philosophy  about  art  and  the  black 
community. 

*  Riot.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1969. 

Selected  Poems.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row,  1963. 

This  work  is  a  compilation  of  w  orks  from  Annie  Allen 
The  Bean  Eaters,  and  A  Street  in  Bronzeville.  anc 
includes  some  poems  w  hich  had  not  appeared  in  print. 

*  A  Street  in  Bronzeville.  Ann  Arbor:  University  Microfilm' 

International.  1977.  Reprint  ot  1945  Harper  edition 


120 


This  is  Ms.  Brooks  first  volume  of  poetry.  One  of  her 
most  moving  pieces,  “The  Mother,”  is  in  this  volume. 

'he  Tiger  Who  Wore  White  Gloves.  Chicago:  Third  World 
Press,  1974. 

'o  Disembark.  Chicago:  Third  World  Press,  1981. 

'he  World  of  Gwendolyn  Brooks.  New  York:  Harper  and 
Row,  1971. 

A  compilation  of  Annie  Allen,  Bean  Eaters,  In  the 
Mecca,  Maud  Martha,  and  A  Street  in  Bronzeville. 

Is.  Brooks  has  also  edited  and  co-authored  some  works, 
^mong  them  are: 

'roadside  Treasury,  1965-1970.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press, 
1971 

An  anthology  of  the  writings  of  poets  who  published 
with  Broadside  Press,  the  major  small  black  press 
which  was  founded  by  librarian  and  poet,  Dudley 
Randall. 

lapsule  Course  in  Black  Poetry  Writing.  Detroit:  Broadside 
Press,  1975. 

A  handbook/textbook  for  the  beginning  poet,  this  work 
was  co-authored  by  Brooks,  Dudley  Randall,  Haki 
Madhubuti,  and  Keorapetse  Kgositsile. 

ump  Bad:  A  New  Chicago  Anthology.  Detroit:  Broadside 
Press,  1971. 

Ms.  Brooks  presents  the  works  of  young  Chicago 
poets,  most  of  whom  were  students  in  her  workshops. 

BURROUGHS,  MARGARET 

dargaret  Burroughs  is  an  artist,  poet,  activist,  and  is  best 
nown  as  the  founder  and  president  emeritus  of  Chicago’s 
)uSable  Museum  of  African-American  History. 

•  Did  you  Feed  My  Cow?  New  York:  Crowell,  1956. 

Dedicated  to  Charlemae  Rollins,  the  noted  children's 
librarian,  this  work  is  a  collection  of  street  games, 
chants,  and  rhymes. 

' or  Malcolm.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1969. 

Burroughs  and  Dudley  Randall  edited  this  collection 
of  “Poems  on  the  Life  and  Death  of  Malcolm  X,”  one 
of  the  most  outspoken  black  leaders  of  the  1960s. 

^  What  Shall  I  Tell  My  Children  Who  Are  Black?  Chicago: 
M.A.A.H.  (DuSable  Museum)  Press,  1968. 

This  collection  of  poetry  takes  its  title  from  the  poem 
for  which  Margaret  Burroughs  has  become  most 
known.  It  is  often  used  in  children’s  programs,  espe¬ 
cially  in  February,  Black  History  Month.  (Although 
not  listed  in  Books  in  Print,  the  work  is  available  from 
the  museum’s  gift  shop.) 


CAYTON,  HORACE  R. 

Horace  Cayton,  a  noted  sociologist,  was  for  a  long  time 
a  part  of  Chicago’s  black  intellectual/activist  community. 
He  served  as  the  director  of  the  Parkway  Community 
House  for  several  years.  Among  his  closest  friends  and 
associates  was  Richard  Wright.  An  interesting  historical 
note — Cayton’s  maternal  grandfather  was  Hiram  R.  Re¬ 
vels  of  Mississippi,  the  first  black  United  States  Senator. 
(The  Cayton  Papers  are  housed,  but  not  yet  processed,  in 
the  Harsh  Collection.) 

*  Black  Metropolis.  New  York:  Harcourt,  Brace  and  Com¬ 
pany,  1945. 

Co-authored  with  St.  Clair  Drake,  this  work  stands 
as  a  classic  and  standard  examination  of  black  life  in 
the  urban  north.  It  is  a  study  of  blacks  in  Chicago, 
but  its  findings  have  been  used  in  sociological  research 
across  the  country. 

Black  Workers  and  the  New  Unions.  Westport,  CT:  Green¬ 
wood  Press.  Reprint  of  1939  edition. 

Co-authored  with  George  Mitchell,  this  work 
examines  the  relationship  among  black  workers,  ra¬ 
cism,  and  labor  unions. 

The  Long  Road.  New  York:  Trident  Press,  1964. 

This  is  Cayton’s  autobiography,  which  traces  his  steps 
through  Seattle,  Chicago,  Europe,  Pittsburgh,  and 
New  York.  A  very  personally  told  memoir. 

COLTER,  CYRUS  J. 

Professor  Emeritus  of  English  at  Northwestern  University, 
Colter  was  also  chairman  of  the  department  of  African- 
American  Studies  and  Chester  D.  Tripp  Professor  of 
Humanities  at  that  institution.  His  public  service  career  in¬ 
cludes  the  practice  of  law,  twelve  years  as  Commissioner 
of  the  Illinois  Commerce  Commission,  and  membership  in 
a  variety  of  educational  and  cultural  organizations. 

The  Beach  Umbrella.  Iowa  City,  University  of  Iowa 
Press,  1970. 

Winner  in  1970  of  the  first  Iowa  School  of  Letters 
Award  for  Short  Fiction,  this  collection  of  fourteen 
stories  examines  various  aspects  of  black  life  in 
Chicago. 

The  Hippodrome.  Chicago:  The  Swallow  Press,  1979. 

Colter’s  second  novel  is  the  story  of  a  fugitive  mur¬ 
derer,  Yaeger,  and  the  hippodrome,  a  house  where 
blacks  stage  sexual  performances  for  white  audiences. 

Night  Studies.  Chicago:  The  Swallow  Press,  1979. 

Treats  the  dilemmas  and  intricate  relationships 
which  exist  between  blacks  and  whites,  as  well  as 


121 


leading  one  character  to  the  discovery  of  black  tra¬ 
ditions  and  histories. 

The  Rivers  of  Eros.  Chicago;  The  Swallow  Press,  1972. 

Colter’s  first  novel  focuses  on  Clotilda  Pilgrim’s  strug¬ 
gles  to  deal  with  the  forces  of  sex  and  violence  and 
their  impact  both  on  the  rooming  house  she  manages 
and  on  the  family  she  attempts  to  hold  together. 

DUNHAM,  KATHERINE 

Katherine  Dunham,  a  recent  honoree  at  the  Kennedy  Certer 
Honors  is  widely  recognized  for  her  contributions  as  a 
dancer.  However,  Ms.  Dunham,  trained  in  anthropology  at 
the  University  of  Chicago,  has  also  served  as  a  writer,  com¬ 
bining  her  expertise  in  both  areas.  Ms.  Dunham  maintains 
residences  in  Haiti  and  Illinois. 

Dances  of  Haiti.  Los  Angeles:  UCLA  Center  for  Afro- 
American  Studies,  1983. 

*  Island  Possessed.  New  York:  Doubleday,  1969. 

This  work  is  a  combination  personal  memoir  and 
scholarly  study  of  the  place  which  Dunham  often  refers 
to  as  her  “spiritual  home.”  Ms.  Dunham’s  interest  in 
Haiti,  an  outgrowth  of  her  anthropological  studies, 
began  in  1935  when  she  was  granted  a  Rosenwald 
Fellowship  to  study  primitive  dance  in  the  West  Indies 
and  South  America. 

Katherine  Dunham’s  Journey  to  Accompong.  Westport, 
CT:  Greenwood  Press,  1972.  Reprint  of  1946  edition. 

This  is  Dunham’s  recollection  and  study  of  a  field 
study  among  the  Maroons  in  the  Jamaican  village  of 
Accompong.  A  lively  anthropological  report  filled 
with  firsthand  observations. 

A  Touch  of  Innocence .  Salem,  NH;  Ayer  Co.,  1980.  Reprint 
of  1959  edition. 

An  autobiographical  work  which  Dunham  says  “is  the 
story  of  a  world  that  has  vanished,  as  it  was  for  one 
child  who  grew  up  in  it — the  Middle  West  through 
the  boom  years  after  the  First  World  War,  and  the 
early  years  of  the  Depression.” 

FORREST,  LEON 

Forrest,  an  associate  professor  at  Northwestern  University, 
is  the  former  managing  editor  of  the  Nation  of  Islam’s  news¬ 
paper,  Muhammad  Speaks.  He  has  edited  several  commu¬ 
nity  weeklies  and  has  lectured  on  various  aspects  of  literature 
at  many  colleges  and  universities  across  the  country.  All  of 
his  novels  have  been  well  received  by  critics  and  reading 
audiences. 

The  Bloodworth  Orphans.  New  York:  Random  House, 
1977. 


The  exciting  tale  of  the  lives  of  members  of  the  Blood-  ' 
worth  family.  Here  we  are  introduced  to  the  legitimate  I 
and  illegitimate  sons  and  daughters,  and  their  heirs, 
of  the  slave-owning  family. 

There  is  a  Tree  More  Ancient  Than  Eden.  New  York:  Ran¬ 
dom  House,  1973. 

Forrest’s  first  novel  takes  us  into  the  depths  of  black 
life  in  Chicago,  giving  us  family  and  community  his¬ 
tory  at  the  same  time.  A  powerful  debut  novel. 

Two  Wings  to  Veil  My  Eace.  New  York;  Random  House, 
1983. 

His  latest  work.  Two  Wings,  is  considered  by  many 
to  be  Forrest’s  finest  piece  of  work.  The  novel  centers 
on  Sweetie  Reed  as  she  recounts  her  life  story  to  her 
grandson. 

FRANKLIN,  JOHN  HOPE 

Dr.  Franklin  is  one  of  the  most  widely  recognized  American 
scholars  of  the  20th  century.  He  has  been  the  recipient  of 
several  awards  and  honorary  degrees.  While  a  faculty 
member  at  the  University  of  Chicago,  Franklin  served  as 
the  dissertation  advisor  for  several  students  who  are  now 
prominent  historians.  Franklin  was  also  a  member  of  the 
Chicago  Public  Library  Board  of  Directors.  Since  the  titles 
of  most  of  his  works  are  self-explanatory ,  these  works  will 
not  be  annotated  in  the  strict  sense  of  the  word. 

Free  Negro  in  North  Carolina,  1790-1860.  New  York;  Nor¬ 
ton,  1971 . 

North  Carolina,  a  “Slave  State,”  had  one  of  the  largest 
populations  of  free  blacks  in  the  South.  This  ptopula- 
tion  had  impact  on  the  politics  and  social  environment 
of  the  State  as  well  as  on  other  parts  of  the  South. 

From  Slavery  to  Freedom:  A  History  of  American  Negroes, 
5th  edition.  New  York:  Knopf,  1980. 

This  may  indeed  be  Franklin’s  most  known  work.  It 
is  used  extensively  in  schools  and  colleges  across  the 
country.  It  is  a  wide-ranging  study  of  the  black  experi¬ 
ence. 

Illustrated  History  of  Black  Americans.  Alexandria,  VA; 
Time-Life  Books.  1970. 

Militant  South,  Eighteen  Hundred  to  Eighteen  Si.xty-One. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1970.  Reprint. 

An  analysis  of  the  politics,  economics,  and  social 
conditions  which  led  to  secession,  and  the  Civil  War. 

Racial  Equality  in  America.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago 
Press.  1976. 

Reconstruction  After  the  Civil  UV/r.  Chicago:  University  of 
Chicago  Press,  1962. 


A  classic  examination  of  the  South  during  the  period 
of  Reconstruction.  Franklin  looks  at  black  life  and 
white  institutions  with  a  skillful  eye. 

ree  Negro  Classics.  New  York:  Avon  Books,  1965. 

This  edited  version  of  three  “classics”  gives  us  Booker 
T.  Washington’s,  Up  From  Slavery;  .E.B.  DuBois’, 
The  Souls  of  Black  Folk;  and  James  Weldon  Johnson’s, 
The  Autobiography  of  an  Ex-Colored  Man. 

\NSBERRY,  LORRAINE 

insberry,  a  Chicagoan,  is  best  known  for  her  classic 
imatic  work,  A  Raisin  in  the  Sun,  for  which  she  was 
/arded  the  1959  New  York  Drama  Critics  Award.  She 
IS  the  first  black  and  youngest  person  to  ever  win  the 
veted  honor. 

5  Blancs:  The  Collected  Last  Plays  of  Lorraine  Hansberry. 
New  York:  Random  House,  1972. 

Edited,  with  critical  backgrounds  by  Robert  Nemiroff, 
Hansberry’s  ex-husband,  and  the  literary  executor  of 
her  estate,  this  work  provides  us  with  Les  Blancs,  set 
in  an  African  village,  which  focuses  on  the  meetings 
of  people  of  different  cultural  backgrounds;  The  Drink¬ 
ing  Gourd,  a  work  written  for  television,  meant  to 
explore  the  relationships  between  slaves  and  masters; 
and.  What  Use  are  Flowers?  a  somewhat  fantasy-like 
exploration  of  the  questions  of  life,  death  and  survival. 

Raisin  in  the  Sun.  New  York:  Random  House,  1959. 

Award  winning  drama  which  focuses  on  the  dynamics 
of  a  black  family  from  Chicago’s  south  side  as  they 
prepare  for  a  move  into  a  white  neighborhood.  This 
work  is  drawn  from  Hansberry’s  life  as  her  father 
sued  against  the  racist  housing  restrictions  in  the 
City  of  Chicago. 

The  Sign  in  Sidney  Brustein  s  Window.  New  York:  Ran 
dom  House,  1965. 

This  play,  which  received  mixed  notices  on  Broadway, 
closed  on  the  night  of  Hansberry’s  death.  It  focuses 
on  several  themes  and  people  in  the  life  of  a  couple 
living  in  New  York’s  Greenwich  Village. 

0  Be  Young,  Gifted  and  Black.  Englewood-Cliffs,  N.J.: 
Prentice-Hall,  1972. 

This  is  Lorraine  Hansberry  speaking  of  and  for  herself. 
The  collection  of  works  adapted  to  book  form  by 
Nemiroff  allows  us  to  see  the  playwright  as  she  saw 
herself,  and  to  discover  some  of  her  feelings  about 
being  a  black  female  writer. 

lUGHES,  LANGSTON 

.angston  Hughes  stands  as  one  of  the  giants  of  American 
iterature.  He  has  written  poetry,  drama,  fiction,  and  au¬ 


tobiographical  works.  His  poetry  is  always  identified  with 
the  Harlem  Renaissance  of  the  1920s.  Hughes  lived  and 
worked  in  Chicago  for  a  while,  and  while  there  was  a  frequent 
user  of  the  George  C.  Hall  Branch  of  the  Chicago  Public 
Library,  the  home  of  what  is  now  the  Harsh  Collection  of 
Afro-American  History  and  Literature.  The  first,  second, 
and  third  drafts  of  his  autobiographical  work.  The  Big  Sea, 
are  housed  in  the  Harsh  Collection.  The  works  listed  here 
are  a  sampling  of  Hughes’  contribution  to  literature. 

The  Best  of  Simple.  New  York:  Hill  and  Wang,  1961. 

A  collection  of  stories  featuring  Hughes’  seminal 
urban  character,  Jesse  B.  Semple,  or  “Simple.”  The 
Simple  character  was  introduced  in  the  Chicago  Defen¬ 
der,  one  of  the  nation’s  leading  and  oldest  black  news¬ 
papers. 

The  Big  Sea.  New  York:  Hill  and  Wang,  1963. 

The  first  volume  of  his  autobiography,  first  published 
in  1940. 

Five  Plays  by  Langston  Hughes.  Bloomington:  Indiana  Uni¬ 
versity  Press,  1963. 

Edited  by  Webster  Smalley,  this  compilation  contains, 
Mulatoo,  Soul  Gone  Home,  Little  Ham,  Simply 
Heaven  (with  Jesse  B.  Semple),  and  Tambourines  to 
Glory.  The  latter  is  probably  Hughes’  most  popular 
theatrical  piece. 

/  Wonder  as  I  Wander.  New  York:  Octagon  Books,  1974. 

The  second  installment  of  his  autobiography.  Origi¬ 
nally  published  in  1956. 

Not  Without  Laughter.  New  York:  Macmillan,  1969. 

Originally  published  in  1930,  this  novel  is  recom¬ 
mended  for  young  adult  readers  in  the  8th  grade  and 
up. 

Selected  Poems.  New  York:  Knopf,  1959 

A  compilation  of  poems  from  the  following  volumes: 
The  Wearv  Blues,  Fine  Clothes  to  The  Jew,  Shakes¬ 
peare  in  Harlem,  Fields  of  Wonder,  One-Way  Ticket, 
Montage  of  a  Dream  Deferred,  and  Dear  Lovely 
Death.  This  is  the  most  comprehensive  collection  of 
Hughes  poetry  to  date. 


MADHUBUTl,  HAKl  (DON  L.  LEE) 

Madhubuti  is  a  poet,  essayist,  teacher,  and  publisher.  He 
established  himself  as  one  of  the  leading  poetic  voices  of 
the  1960s  when  poetry  became  the  major  black  literary  veh¬ 
icle.  He  is  founder,  editor,  and  publisher  of  Third  World 
Press,  a  thriving  small  press  located  in  Chicago,  and  is  the 
Director  the  the  Institute  of  Positive  Education.  He  currently 
serves  on  the  faculty  of  Chicago  State  University. 

*  Black  Pride.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1968. 


123 


I 


*  Directionscore.  Detroit;  Broadside  Press,  1971. 

*  Don't  Cry,  Scream.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1969. 

Book  of  Life.  Detroit:  Broadside  Press,  1973. 

*  Dynamite  Voice.s:  Detroit:  Broadside  l^ress,  1971. 

A  critical  analysis  of  the  major  black  poets  of  the 
196()s. 

Enemies:  the  Clash  of  the  Races.  Chicago:  Third  World 
Press,  1980. 

An  examination  of  race  relationships  and  suggestions 
for  black  empowerment  and  self-actualization. 

From  Plan  to  Planet.  Chicago:  Third  World  Press,  1 980.  Re¬ 
print  of  1973  Broadside  edition. 

'  A  critical  essay  exploring  the  need  to  develop  black 
institutions  and  an  Afrikan  consciousness  among 
blacks.  (Afrikan:  Madhubuti  chooses  to  use  the  “K” 
for  several  reasons,  among  them  is  the  fact  that  most 
vernacular  or  traditional  languages  on  the  continent 
spell  Africa  as  Afrika.) 

*  Think  Black.  Detroit;  Broadside  Press,  1967. 

*  VTc  Walk  the  Way  of  the  New  World.  Detroit:  Broadside 

Press,  1970. 

Note:  Although  most  of  Madhubuti’s  works  are  not 
listed  in  Books  in  Print,  one  should  contact  Third 
World  Press  about  out-of-print  titles. 

RODGERS,  CAROLYN 

Carolyn  Rodgers  is  another  major  poetic  voice  of  the  1960s 
that  emerged  from  Chicago.  It  is  important  to  note  that  as 
poetry  became  the  major  literary  vehicle  during  this  period, 
it  was  the  area  for  black  female  expression,  and  Rodgers 
was  among  the  top  of  the  list. 

The  Heart  as  Ever  Green;  New  and  Selected  Poems.  New 
York:  Anchor  Press,  1978. 

How  I  got  Ovah.  New  York:  Anchor  Press,  1975. 

Paper  Soul.  Chicago:  Third  World  Press,  1968. 

Songs  of  a  Black  Bird .  Chicago:  Third  World  Press,  1969. 

ROLLINS,  CHARLEMAE  HILL 

Charlemae  Rollins  was  a  children's  librarian  beyond  com¬ 
pare.  She  worked  at  the  George  Cleveland  Hall  Branch  of 
the  Chicago  Public  Library.  She  devoted  much  of  her  ener¬ 
gies  to  studying  images  and  roles  of  blacks  in  literature  tor 
children.  Collections  of  juvenile  literature  have  been  named 
in  her  honor  in  several  locations,  including  Chicago’s 
Roosevelt  University.  The  President's  Program  of  the  Amer¬ 
ican  Library  Association’s  Association  for  Library  Service 


to  Children  is  also  named  in  her  honor.  Ms.  Rollins’  collec¬ 
tion  of  books,  scrapbooks,  and  other  personal  memorabilia 
can  be  found  in  the  Harsh  Collection. 

*  Black  Trouhador.  Chicago:  Rand  .McNally,  1970 

A  children’s  biography  of  Langston  Hughes. 

Christman  Gif .  Chicago;  Follett  Publishing  Company,  1%3. 

A  collection  of  p(x:ms,  songs,  stories,  and  rhymes  which 
lcx)k  at  Christmas  from  a  black  persjxctive  and  tradition. 

They  Showed  the  Way.  New  York:  Harper-Row,  1964. 

A  collection  of  40  biographical  sketches  of  black  leaders 
intended  for  readers  in  the  fourth  grade  and  up. 


WORK,  MONROE 

One  of  the  first  scholars  to  study  the  African  origins  of  Afro-  |i 
American  culture.  Work  is  a  scholar  whose  contributions  to  , 
the  development  of  black  studies  are  often  ignored.  Work’s . 
family  moved  to  Cairo,  Illinois  when  he  was  quite  young.  He  ■ 
attended  the  Chicago  Theological  Seminary  and  received  his !; 
master’s  degree  in  Sociology  from  the  University  of  Chicago  • 
in  1903. 

Bibliography  of  the  Negro  in  Africa  and  America.  New  York:  • 
Octagon  Books,  1966.  Reprint  of  1928  edition. 

» 

A  classic  bibliographical  study  of  black  culture  in  the' 
Americas  and  in  Africa.  This  is  a  must-have  for  research 
level  collections. 

The  Negro  Year  Book:  An  Annual  Encyclopedia  of  the  Negro,  i 
New  York:  University  Place  Book  Shop. 

Eleven  editions  of  what  was  to  have  been  an  annual 
publication  appeared  between  1912  and  1952.  The! 
only  edition  in  print,  and  available  through  Univer-I 
sity  Place  Bookshop,  covers  1918-1919.  There  are 
scattered  holdings  in  research  collections  throughout 
the  country. 

WRIGHT,  RICHARD  ' 

Richard  Wright’s  name  evokes  an  image  of  the  angry'  blacl 
writer  who  saw  and  felt  the  pathos  ot  blacks  in  America 
The  subject  of  many  studies.  Wright  is  a  “must-read  fo 
most  American  high  school  and  college  students.  He  livec 
and  worked  in  Chicago  and  w  as  quite  active  in  the  activist/in 
tellectual  community.  He.  like  Hughes,  used  the  Georg( 
Cleveland  Hall  Branch  of  the  Chicago  Public  Library,  am 
worked  on  the  Works  Projects  Administration’s  "Negro  ii 
Illinois"  Writers  Project.  The  typescripts  of  his  “Som 
Ethnological  Aspects  of  Chicago’s  Black  Belt"  and  "Blacl 
Boy  Leaves  Home"  are  housed  in  the  Harsh  Collection 
Because  of  Wright’s  stature  and  the  general  availability  o 
his  works,  only  a  sampling  of  his  works  is  given.  ’ 


124 


'Tiericiin  Hunger.  New  York!  Harper-Row,  1977. 

Written  around  1944  as  the  second  half  of  Black  Boy, 
this  autobiographical  work  picks  up  at  Black  Boy  s 
end.  It  remained  unpublished  until  1977. 

lack  Boy:  A  Record  of  Childhood  and  Youth.  New  York: 
Harper-Row,  1969.  Reprint  of  1945  edition. 

Standing  as  a  classic  of  American  autobiography. 
Black  Boy  recounts  Wright’s  childhood  in  Jim  Crow 
Mississippi  and  Tennessee. 

ative  Son.  New  York:  Harper-Row,  1969.  Reprint  of  1940 
edition. 

Who  can  forget  this  explosive  novel  which  tore  the 
covers  off  race  relations  in  America.  Set  in  Chicago, 
this  work  centers  on  the  life  of  Bigger  Thomas,  a 
young  black  man  whose  life  becomes  entangled  in  a 
web  of  liberalism,  murder,  communism,  and  racism. 
An  American  classic.  This  was  the  first  book  by  an 
Afro-American  to  become  a  Book-of-the-Month-Club 
selection. 

he  Outsider.  New  York:  Harper-Row,  1965.  Reprint  of 
1953  edition. 

Regarded  as  the  first  American  novel  that  was  really 
existentialist,  its  main  character,  Cross  Damon,  lives 
in  Chicago. 

'welve  Million  Black  Voices:  A  Folk  History  of  the  Negro  in 
the  United  States.  Salem,  NH:  Ayer,  1969.  Reprint 
of  1941  edition. 


A  collaborative  effort  with  the  photographer  Edwin 
Rosskam,  this  work  provides  a  sociological  and  histor¬ 
ical  framework  for  the  black  experience.  Wright  used 
a  great  deal  of  information  collected  by  Horace  Cayton 
to  develop  his  text  for  this  work. 

Uncle  Tom’s  Children.  New  York:  Harper-Row,  1965.  Re¬ 
print  of  1938  edition. 

Wright’s  first  book,  this  is  a  collection  of  stories, 
some  autobiographical  in  nature.  The  book  first  ap¬ 
peared  in  1938  and  Wright  won  the  WPA  Federal 
Writers’  Project  Award  for  his  efforts. 


EPILOGUE 

The  constraints  of  time,  space,  and  personnel  have  not  al¬ 
lowed  this  to  be  a  comprehensive  bibliography.  Many,  such 
as  Ronald  Fair,  Sam  Greenlee,  Roi  Otley,  Willard  Motley, 
and  Dempsey  Travis  have  not  been  forgotten.  Nor  have 
Sterling  Plumpp,  Doris  Saunders,  Madeline  Stratton,  Era 
Bell  Thompson,  Sterling  Stuckey  or  Frank  London  Brown. 
Nor  have  we  forgotten  the  other  children’s  writers  such  as 
Mildred  Johnson  or  Dorthy  Robinson. 

Many  black  writers  have  made  Illinois  a  literary  giant.  It  is 
hoped  that  this  bibliography,  in  spite  of  its  shortcomings, 
is  the  beginning  of  an  effort  to  give  them  credit  and  to  make 
them  known  to  a  larger  reading  audience. 


125 


ij 


l[ 


I J 


4 


j 


■:» 


126 


LITERATURE  OF  ILLINOIS: 
HISPANICS 

Compiled  by  Nicolas  Kanellos 

e  following  is  a  select  bibliography  of  works  by  Hispanic 
iters  who  were  bom,  reared  or  resided  in  Illinois.  With 
e  exception  each  text  given  is  entirely  or  principally  writ- 
1  in  English. 

latively  few  of  their  works  have  been  published  in  book 
m,  and  the  major  portion  of  Illinois  Hispanic  writing 
jally  can  be  found  published  by  certain  magazines  around 
;  country.  Hence,  a  section  of  this  bibliography  is  dedi- 
ted  to  literary  journals  that  have  published  their  poems, 
»ries  and  plays.  On  occasion,  works  will  be  found  in  those 
jre  general  publications  interested  in  reflecting  a  broader 
sctrum  of  writing  in  Illinois.  Also,  a  list  of  reference  titles 
included.  While  these  works  address  literary  concerns 
yond  Illinois,  occasionally  the  reader  will  find  material 
rtinent  to  the  state  or  region. 

'the  major  Illinois  Hispanic  writers.  Ana  Castillo,  Sandra 
sneros  and  Rina  Rocha  were  bom  and  raised  in  Chicago 
d  write  extensively  about  the  city.  David  Hernandez  was 
m  in  Puerto  Rico,  Hugo  Martinez  Serros  in  Mexico,  and 
:hy  Obejas  in  Cuba;  however,  all  three  were  raised  in 
licago.  Carlos  Morton  was  bom  in  El  Paso,  Texas,  but 
sated  the  major  portion  of  his  works  when  he  resided  in 
licago.  Often,  reviews  and  other  types  of  articles  on  these 
thors  can  be  found  in  standard  general  and  literary  period- 
il  indices. 

le  terms  “Hispanic”  and  “Latino”  are  often  used,  but  not 
liversally  accepted,  as  indications  of  the  various  peoples 
hose  origins  are  from  Spanish-speaking  or  Spanish-lan- 
lage  derivative  countries.  Those  readers  interested  in  pur¬ 
ling  the  work  of  “Hispanic”  literature  in  the  United  States 
Illinois  should  also  investigate  titles  or  organizations 
aturing  more  specific  names  such  as  “Chicano,”  “Cuban,” 
.atin  American,”  “Mexican,”  and  “Puerto  Rican.” 

I  Chicago,  a  few  organizations  headed  by  bilingual  indi¬ 
duals  which  consider  literature  solely  or  as  part  of  broader 
terest  in  the  arts  and  culture  are: 

ibreia  Yuqui  Yu 

546  West  Division  Street  Attn;  Gabriel  Amill 

hicago,  IL  60622 

lARCH  (Movimiento  Artistico  Chicano) 

.0.  Box  2890  Attn:  Carlos  Cumpian  or 

hicago,  IL  60690  Carlos  Cortez 

lIRA  (Mi  Raza  Arts  Consortium) 

67  West  18th  Street  Attn:  Jose  Gonzalez 

hicago,  IL  60616 


Paublo  Nemda  Cultural  Center 
1316  West  Eddy  Street 
Chicago,  IL  60657 

Rafael  Cintron  Ortiz  Cultural  Center  Attn:  Marc 

Latin  American  Studies  Department  Zimmerman 

University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago 
P.O.  Box  4348 
Chicago,  IL  60680 

BOOKS 

Castillo,  Ana.  Women  Are  Not  Roses .  Houston:  Arte  Publico 
Press,  1984. 

Ana  Castillo  is  one  of  the  most  widely  published  and 
anthologized  voices  from  the  Hispanic  experience  in 
the  United  States.  “Heretofore  pretensions  to  and  of 
virtue  have  presumed  the  nonexistence  of  woman’s 
sexual  desires  and  have  generally  silenced  most  poets 
on  the  subject.  Among  Chicanas,  I  believe  [Ana  Cas- 
tillos’s]  is  the  first  effort  to  break  with  the  silence.” 
(Marisa  Cantu,  The  Third  Woman.) 

Castillo,  Marilu.  Recuerdos  y  sentimiento.  Chicago;  Marilu 
Castillo,  1978. 

A  first  volume  of  love  poetry  by  this  native  Chicagoan. 

Cisneros,  Sandra.  The  House  on  Mango  Street.  Houston; 
Arte  Publico  Press,  1985. 

An  enchanting  view  of  growing  up  in  the  city,  as 
narrated  in  insightful  and  imaginative  prose  by  this 
fellow  of  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts  and 
of  the  Karolyi  Foundation  of  France,  “...it  is  a  beau¬ 
tiful  book.  Rarely  have  I  read  anything  that  came  so 
close  to  reviving  the  ache  of  childhood.  .  .  .It  also 
speaks  to  all  those  exiles — like  me — who  feel  both 
ashamed  of  the  poor  neighborhood  they  grew  up  in, 
and  inadequate  to  its  beauty.”  (Phillip  Lopate,) 

Morton,  Carlos.  The  Many  Deaths  of  Danny  Rosales,  and 
Other  Plays.  Houston:  Arte  Publico  Press,  1983. 

The  most  prolific  and  produced  Chicano  playwright, 
fellow  of  the  National  Repertory  Theatre,  with  his 
first  collection  of  plays  including  “El  Jardin,”  “Los 
Dorados,”  “Rancho  Hollywood,”  and  others.  ‘El  Jar- 
din’  is  a  work  of  great  innovation  and  even  daring.” 
(Bennet  E.  McClellan,  Latin  American  Theatre  Re¬ 
view.) 

Nosotros  Collective.  Nosotros:  A  Collection  of  Latino  Poetry 
and  Graphics  from  Chicago.  Houston;  Arte  Publico 
Press,  1977. 

A  collection  of  poems  by  Chicago  writers  of  the  Nosot¬ 
ros  Workshop,  including  David  Hernandez,  Ana  Cas¬ 
tillo,  Jose  Angel  Figuero,  and  Julio  Noboa. 


127 


Pursifull,  Carmen  M.  Carmen  by  Moonlight.  Champaign; 
Carmen  M.  Pursifull,  1982. 

A  first  book  of  poems  by  a  Spanish/Puerto  Rican  poet 
whose  work  has  appeared  in  small  magazines  around 
the  country. 

Chapbooks  (all  poetry) 

Badikian,  Beatriz.  Akewa  Is  a  Woman.  Chicago:  MARCH, 
1982. 

Castillo,  Ana.  Otro  Canto.  Chicago:  Alternative  Publica¬ 
tions,  1977. 

Cisneros,  Sandra.  Bad  Boys.  San  Jose,  CA:  Mango  Press, 
1980. 

Hernandez,  Robert.  Yo,  El  LatinoU ,  the  Latino.  Champaign: 

'  Casa  Cultural  Latina  at  the  University  of  Illinois,  1975. 

Morton,  Carlos.  White  Heroin  Winter.  El  Paso:  One  Eye 
Press,  1971. 

Poco,  Lonnie.  Beside  the  Wichita.  Chicago:  MARCH,  1981. 

Rocha,  Rina.  Binder. . . .  Chicago:  Alexander  Books,  no  date 
given. 

Serritoc,  Ken.  Calling  Saturn.  Chicago:  MARCH,  1981. 

(N.B.  MARCH  =  Movimiento  Artistico  Chicano) 

MAGAZINES 

The  following  frequently  feature  the  writings  of  Illinois  His- 

panics. 

Abrazo,  founded  in  1976.  (P.O.  Box  2890,  Chicago,  IL 
60690) 

Especially  the  poetry  of  Ana  Castillo,  Salima  Rivera, 
Carlos  Cortez,  and  Carlos  Cumpian. 

Revista  Chicano-Riquena,  founded  in  Gary,  Indiana  in  1972, 
moved  to  Houston,  Texas  in  1979  (University  of  Hous- 
ton-University  Park,  Houston,  Texas,  77004).  Has 
published  more  Hispanic  writers  than  any  other 
magazine.  All  back  and  current  issues  available.  Es¬ 
pecially  useful  for  Ana  Castillo,  Sandra  Cisneros, 
David  Hernandez,  Rina  Rocha,  Franklyn  Varela, 
Chico  Rivera,  Achy  Obejas,  Carlos  Cumpian,  Carmen 
Pursifull,  Margarita  Flores,  Hector  Hernandez  Nieto, 
Miriam  Cruz,  Jorge  A.  Vasquez,  and  Hugo  Martinez- 
Serros. 

Because  of  the  limited  number  of  prose  writers,  particular 
note  is  made  of  the  following  prize-winning  stories 
published  in  this  magazine. 

Varela-Perez,  Franklyn.  “How  the  Water  of  the  Bay  Turned 
Silver,”  found  in,  Kikiriki:  Stories  and  Poems  in  Eng¬ 
lish  and  Spanish  for  Children.  Sylvia  Cavazos  Pena, 
editor.  Houston:  Arte  Publico,  Press,  1981. 


Verela-Perez,  Eranklyn.  "Tun-Ta-Ca-Tun"  found  in  Tun- 
Ta-Ca-Tun.  Sylvia  Cavazos  Pena,  editor.  Houston: 
Arte  Publico  Press,  1985. 

Vasquez,  Jorge  A.  “Tequilain  the  Cellar,”  and  Hugo  Mar- 
tinez-Serros,  “Learn!  Learn!”,  found  in  Latino  Short 
Eiction.  Luis  Davila  and  Nicolas  Kanellos,  eds.  Hous¬ 
ton:  Arte  Publico  Press,  1980. 

The  Rican.  Bounded  in  1971  and  published  irregularly  until 
1975. 

Can  be  found  in  the  Central  or  certain  neighborhood 
branches  of  the  Chicago  Public  Library. 

Especially  for  the  works  of  Julio  Noboa,  Chico  Rivera, 
David  Hernandez,  Carmelo  Rodriquez,  Emma  Iris 
Rodriquez,  Humberto  Cintron,  Shabazz,  and  Jose 
Angel  Figueroa. 

Third  Woman.  Founded  in  1980  at  Indiana  University, 
Bloomington,  Indiana. 

Especially  for  Sandra  Cisneros,  Marisa  Cantu,  Linda 
Flores  Quinones,  Margarita  Lopez  Flores,  Achy 
Obejas,  Salima  Rivera,  Olga  Ruiz  Gibson,  Beatriz 
Badikian,  Irene  Campos  Carr,  Ana  Castillo,  and  Grisel 
Valde’s. 

REFERENCE  WORKS 
Specific 

Woman  of  Her  Word:  Hispanic  Women  Write.  Evangelina 
Vigil,  editor.  Houston:  Arte  Publico  Press,  1983. 

Articles  in  this  volume  study  the  works  of  Ana  Cas¬ 
tillo,  Sandra  Cisneros,  Achy  Obejas  and  Rina  Rocha. 


General 

Barradas,  Efrain  and  Rodriquez,  Rafael.  Herejes  y  mitifica- 
dores.  Muestra  de  poesia  puertorriquena  en  los  Es- 
tados  Unidos.  Rio  Piedras;  Ediciones  Huracan,  1980. 

Although  the  only  text  entirely  in  Spanish  found  in 
this  bibliography,  it  is  one  of  only  two  comprehensive 
works  about  Puerto  Rican  literature  in  the  United 
States. 

Baker,  Houston  A.  ed.  Three  American  Literatures.  New 
York:  The  Modem  Language  Association.  1982. 

Jimenez,  Francisco.  The  Identification  and  Analysis  of  Chi¬ 
cano  Literature.  New  York:  Bilingual  Press.  1979. 

Martinez,  Julio  A.  ed.  Chicano  Scholars  and  Writers.  Metu- 
chen:  The  Scarecrow  Press,  1979. 

Mohr,  Eugene  V.  The  Nuyorican  E.xperience .  Literature  oj 
the  Puerto  Rican  Minority.  Westport:  Greenwood 
Press.  1982. 


128 


^miners,  Joseph  and  Ybarra-Frausto,  Tomas  eds.  Modern 
Chicano  Writers.  Englewood  Cliffs;  Prentice-Hall, 
1979. 

pecial  Issue  on  Chicano  Literature.  Latin  American  Liter¬ 
ary  Review.  5/10  (Spring-Summer  1977.) 


Tatum,  Charles  M..  Chicano  Literature.  Boston:  Twayne, 
1982. 

Note:  Greenwood  Press  is  soon  to  publish  reference  volumes 
on  Chicano  literature  (ed.  Francisco  Lomeli)  and  U.S.  His¬ 
panic  literature  (ed.  Nicolas  Kanellos).  Also,  Gale  Research 
is  presently  compiling  a  similar  book  on  Chicano  literature. 


129 


is 


r 

■rf  W 


i-V  % 

M  -  jf  *  ■ 


♦iOmM #‘» i* ';i'(  wt).  A  -  ^luoTm.  >.u‘  >• 

V^V' 


1-4  ^  *■' .  '  - ' ; . 


W«  -iV*»T  ..4/1  .«rn>|i^Wnp*;'i  ♦  ■  .««  rii|  w^t- x- 

iJnH-W-  :•  juj'4>c«r 

-Vr.CiJj.  ,  ..*im  '  '‘‘■' 

.  *  ■' *Ji/#|{ ’»•  '4*4^  !h 

.r*jTi 


<•/■) 


* 


f  '  IlW 


'■■■H 


'■<1*  » ' 


■■:•>“*  'iw) 

*»  '  ' '  "  1 

vVr^uli*^  i  j  -' 


fc"  (1  ii'*’.  0Jt 

}  > 


J 


’i  -  ■}  •■  .  '  .  .  -i.  ,  ■ "  ‘ '  -% 

^V  u»i>0.  */»'''l'/'*  '-»  ' '  I  iff*  c-vC  'i 

IV* 

4“-  -  .  ■  ,  .  ••*  ^ 

•  _  •  'u.  ■•  .•  « 

■  ’<  «  •*  'rt  ^^.41--  r  •l^•*^v«■^  A^i'<f«»»kf  '•>.  Mv  ijOf  ^ 

'  ’  'r';'  .4 


« ,  I  • '  ‘  > 


'S  ^  ‘  '  V  ’ 


Ch4  Wi* 


''  ■  S4fM*-n.  Om>#.  MAkCH 


H  •  .  ^  iwtM 

1 1 1  ,i^t»  ■  frijMI  I 

-  .  '■  5  t 


v  i‘: 


.J 

s?  V.;  v/iNt-s 


.r  s*.  R  woii 


'.If  <■  ‘fi 


•  ll*  -H  i  '  '{  I'  «'4It 


» t  — 


W.M/f  / 

•  *e»« -,1)  ..c  /  ckyA-Aj« 

y  ftl  •  L-f'/t,.*  '^l'^ir4»'jfCy| 

Vi- j!  UVti  -i  Ui 


•  i; 

.'.■ji.  .fd*'. 


-\i 


'.y 


(li 


O'tn.vjlv*  »(f.Aj*l;;iin,  >  '4MiH«|i!!_ 

lU.,  .  Jh.tn  'V. 

ii\l  t't'r'fii  I 'VJ'*  flKiptit  ‘'‘fj 

■  *  :  '  ■  i  -iJ  '  f*  ' 


f$M 


■■  ^  <  '.'HI . . » Pu'**  <  ■ 


..’jrt 


'  '  . 

’‘I 

I  ♦1^  »,■'<•»»#:'  •■  ‘ 

!U'*-»*iih*’W  'j 


.  •■  -r.*! 

•  1  IT  •  '  111  >¥ 

i4>  I  ■iir^i.fdSi 


IV  -••W’tUiC 


h 


■ '  ,-*.•'  ■  ■ ./.  *  i. 


''f,  (,  ■'  '  V 


.  !>' 


I  .  I'.i.  ...  !»«,. 


*  i  i.  ■»  1  ^  <*•  f 

tiic,ni.u  i. 


r-  <^cA' 

•  :Tk  • 

'.  4  .  1*^  “  •/''!  I  ' 


*fr  'i/  r/(  .,j« 

'■K  fc.  Vf  1*  flfflf  ,  •■ 

..  ' ..  f  .  ji*  ft  tmi  1'^  4* 

?  T  *'  «  I 

( '•■■  ■ .  I  >f .  ^(  f .'■* 

4f  -  « Wii 


130 


LITERATURE  OF  ILLINOIS: 
JUVENILE  WORKS 

Compiled  by  Dorothy  Haas 


lis  bibliography  is  offered  as  an  aid  in  the  development 
programs  or  collections  about  authors  who  reside  in  II- 
lois  or  who,  though  they  now  live  elsewhere,  did  a  portion 
their  body  of  work  while  in  residence  in  the  state.  Each 
itry  contains  brief  biographical  notes,  awards  and  honors, 
id  titles  of  each  author’s  books.  The  books  are  listed  in 
verse  chronology,  with  most  recent  titles  appearing  first, 
nly  the  publishers  of  the  original  hard-cover  editions  are 
iknowledged.  Adult  works  are  included  only  if  they  are 
■  possible  interest  to  the  young  reader.  Books  with  Illinois 
ttings  are  starred. 

^ho  exactly  is  an  Illinois  Author?  The  question  is  a  thorny 
le  and  definition  proved  difficult.  Numerous  prominant 
gures  acknowledge  the  state  as  their  birthplace  but  live 
id  work  elsewhere.  Are  then,  to  name  but  a  few,  Joan 
/alsh  Anglund,  Betsy  Byars,  and  Edward  Gorey  actually 
Illinois"  authors?  Eor  purposes  of  this  publication  it  was 
scided  that  people  who  left  the  state  in  childhood  do  not 
ualify.  With  regret,  then,  authors  such  as  Lynn  Hall  and 
etty  Miles  are  omitted.  Phyllis  Whitney,  who  wrote  her 
rst  seven  books  in  Illinois,  is  included.  Richard  Peck,  who 
lught  in  Illinois,  is  also  included. 

he  bibliography  is  as  comprehensive  as  the  limitations  of 
me,  currently  accessible  information,  and  this  format  per- 
lit.  A  number  of  names,  many  of  them  well  known,  are 
lissing.  But  they  are  not  forgotten.  It  is  expected  that  this 
ibliography  will  be  expanded  in  the  future  to  include  all 
/riters  who  lay  claim  to  Illinois  authorship.  It  is  also  ex- 
ected  that  future  expansion  will  include  a  subsection  de- 
oted  to  such  well-remembered  figures  as  Dorothy  Aldis, 
lichard  Atwater,  Charlemae  Rollins,  and  —  of  course!  ^ 
?arl  Sandburg. 

V  number  of  people  were  generous  with  their  time,  expertise, 
ind  facilities  while  the  bibliography  was  in  development. 
)ur  particular  thanks  go  to  Don  Wright,  Director  of  the 
ivanston  Public  Library,  who  extended  the  services  of  the 
ibrary  in  preparation  of  the  typewritten  copy.  Trudy  Jones, 
:hildren’s  Librarian  at  the  Evanston  Public  Library  assisted 
n  the  verification  and  expansion  of  available  information, 
lennifer  Bartoli  gave  of  her  time  and  editorial  expertise  in 
Droofreading.  And  Barbara  Elleman,  Editor  of  Children  s 
Books  of  Booklist  of  the  American  Library  Association, 
provided  guidance  regarding  reference  books  which  will 
prove  helpful  to  users  of  this  bibliography. 


General  Sources 

Although  a  short  list  of  reference  works  more  formally  initiates 

this  bibliography,  the  following  are  valuable  resources. 

*  In-depth  Information  About  Authors  * 

Holtze,  Sally  Homes.  The  Fifth  Book  of  Junior  Authors  and 
Illustrators.  New  York;  H.  W.  Wilson  Company, 
1983. 

Something  About  the  Author.  Vol.  37.  Detroit:  Gale 
Research  Company,  1985. 

The  preceding  volumes  (starting  in  1 97 1 )  are  also  very  useful . 

*  Reviews  of  New  Books  in  Periodicals  * 

Booklist.  (22  issues  annually)  Chicago;  American  Library 
Association. 

Bulletin  of  the  Center  for  Children’s  Books.  (1 1  issues  an¬ 
nually)  Chicago:  The  University  of  Chicago. 

*  Regular  Programs  on  Children’s  Books  * 

Children's  Reading  Round  Table  Bulletin.  (Contact: 
Caroline  Rubin,  Editor.  1321  East  56th  Street, 
Chicago,  Illinois,  60637.) 

Reference  Works 

Egoff,  Sheila.  Thursday’s  Child.  Chicago,  Ill.  American 
Library  Association,  1981. 

Hearne,  Betsy,  and  Marilyn  Kaye.  Celebrating  Children’s 
Books.  New  York;  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard,  1981. 

Lukens,  Rebecca  J.  A  Critical  Handbook  of  Children  s  Lit¬ 
erature.  3rd  ed.  Glenview,  Ill. ;  Scott  Foresman,  1 986. 

Sutherland,  Zena.,  Dianne  L.  Monson,  and  May  Hill  Ar- 
buthnot.  Children  And  Books.  7th  ed.  Glenview,  Ill.; 
Scott  Foresman,  1985. 

Sutherland,  Zena.,  and  Myra  Cohn  Livingston.  The  Scott 
Foresman  Anthology  of  Children’ s  Literature.  Glen¬ 
view,  Ill.:  Scott  Foresman,  1984. 


Interpretation  of  Signs 

Key  to  symbols  following  titles: 

*  Illinois  Setting 

F  Fiction 

NF  Non-fiction 

P  Poetry 

Pre  Pre-school  interest 

Indication  of  Age  or  Grade  Levels 


131 


ADORJAN,  Carol  (Madden) 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  August  17,  1934,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Winnetka,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Mundelein  College,  B.A.  Magna  Cum  Laude  (English 
Literature,  History,  Education)  1956. 

OTHER: 

1981,  Ohio  State  Award  for  adaptation  of  The  Sea 
Wolf  produced  by  the  Chicago  Radio  Theatre. 

,  1975,  Braille  edition.  The  Cat  Sitter  Mystery,  Amer¬ 
ican  Printing  House  for  the  Blind,  Louisville, 
Kentucky. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage,  General  Adult,  Literary  Adult. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Electric  Man,  Children’s  Press,  1981. 

F  Gr.  4  to  adult  (High  Interest,  Low  Vocabulary) 

Pig  Party,  Children’s  Press,  1981. 

F  Gr.  4  to  adult  (High  Interest,  Low  Vocabulary) 

The  Cat  Sitter  Mystery,  J.  Philip  O’Hara,  1973. 

Star  F  8  to  12 

Jonathan  Bloom's  Room,  J.  Philip  O’Hara,  1972 
F  5  to  7 

Someone  /  Know,  Random  House,  1968. 

F  Pre 

AYLESWORTH,  Jim 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  February  21 ,  1943,  Jacksonville,  Florida.  Now  a 
resident  of  Hinsdale,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Miami  of  Ohio,  Oxford,  Ohio,  B.A. 

Concordia  College,  River  Forest,  Illinois,  M.A. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

First  Grade  Teacher,  Dist.  97,  Oak  Park,  Illinois. 


OTHER: 

1985,  Alumnus  of  the  Year,  Concordia  College. 
1984,  Governor’s  Master  Teacher. 

1975,  Those  Who  Excel,  Illinois  State  Board  of  Edu¬ 
cation. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

One  Crow,  Harper  &  Row,  1985. 

F  Pre  to  8 

Shenandoah  Noah,  Holt  Rinehart,  1985. 

F  5  to  8 

The  Bad  Dream,  A.  Whitman,  1983. 

*  F  Pre  to  8 

Siren  in  the  Night,  A.  Whitman,  1983. 

*  F  Pre  to  8 

Mary’ s  Mirror,  Holt  Rinehart,  1982. 

F  5  to  8 

Tonight’s  the  Night,  A.  Whitman,  1981. 

*  F  Pre  to  8 

Hush  Up!,  Holt  Rinehart,  1980. 

F  5  to  8 

AVARS,  James 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  November  17,  1898.  Wilmette,  Illinois  Now  a 
resident  of  Urbana,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Paw  Paw,  Michigan,  High  School. 

Northwestern  University,  B.S.,  1922. 

Northwestern  University  and  the  University  of  Illinois, 
graduate  work. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

5  years  of  junior  high  and  high  school  teaching. 

9  years  on  editorial  and  advertising  staff  of  Chicago 
Athletic  Magazine. 

28  years  as  head  of  Section  of  Publications  and  Public 
Relations,  Illinois  Natural  History  Survey,  Ur¬ 
bana.  Illinois. 


132 


OTHER: 

1969,  Clara  Ingram  Judson  Award  from  the  Society  of 
Midland  Authors  for  The  Illinois  River. 

1969,  recipient  (with  Rebecca  Caudill)  of  award  of  the 
Children’s  Reading  Round  Table  for  distin¬ 
guished  service  in  the  field  of  children’s  reading. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage,  General  Adult. 

BLIOGRAPHY 

We  Hold  These  Truths,  Viking,  1977. 

NF  12  and  up 

Track  Comes  to  Lonesome  Point,  Dutton,  1973. 

F  8  to  12 

Contrary  Jenkins  (with  Rebecca  Caudill),  Holt  Rine¬ 
hart,  1969. 

F  5  and  up 

The  Illinois  River,  Holt  Rinehart,  1968. 

*  NF  10  and  up,  including  adult 

John  James  Audubon,  Garrard,  1966. 

NF  5  to  10 

Another  Kind  of  Puppy,  Abelard-Schuman,  1965. 

*  F  5  to  10 

Butterflies,  Skippers,  and  Moths  (with  Milton  W. 
Sanderson),  Whitman  (division  of  Western  Pub¬ 
lishing),  1964. 

NF  5  to  12 

Happy  Birthday,  Mom!,  Abelard-Schuman,  1963. 

*  F  5  to  10 

Pet  Parade,  Abelard-Schuman,  1960. 

*  F  Pre 

Caboose  on  the  Roof,  Abelard-Schuman,  1956. 

*  F  5  to  10 

Basketball  Comes  to  Lonesome  Point,  Viking,  1952. 

F  8  to  12 


BARTOLI,  Jennifer 


lOGRAPHY 

Bom  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan.  Resident  of  Chicago,  Il¬ 
linois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Michigan,  B.A.  (English),  1967. 


WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Former  caseworker  for  Cook  County  Department  of 
Public  Aid. 

Former  assistant  editor  at  Albert  Whitman  &  Co. 
Current  monthly  opinion  column  for  the  Children’s 
Reading  Round  Table  of  Chicago  Bulletin. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Literary  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

In  a  Meadow,  Two  Hares  Hide,  Albert  Whitman, 
1979. 

F  5  to  8 

The  Story  of  the  Grateful  Crane,  Albert  Whitman, 
1978. 

F  5  to  8 

Snow  on  Bear’s  Nose,  Albert  Whitman,  1977. 

F  Pre 

Nonna,  Harvey  House,  1975. 

F  5  to  8 

BATES,  Betty 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  October  5,  1921 ,  Evanston,  Illinois.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Evanston,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Evanston  Township  High  School. 

Beloit  College. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Formerly,  secretary. 

OTHER: 

Junior  Literary  Guild  -  Bugs  in  Your  Ears,  The  Ups 
and  Downs  of  Jorie  Jenkins, and.  Say  Cheese.. 
Nominated  for  Hoosier  Award  -  Bugs  in  Your  Ears. 
1981,  Children’s  Choice  -  Love  Is  Like  Peanuts. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Herbert  and  Hortense,  A.  Whitman,  1984. 

F  5  to  8 


133 


Sa\  Cheese,  Holiday  House,  1984. 

*  F  8  to  10 

Call  Me  Friday  theThirteenlh,  Holiday  House,  1983. 

*  F  8  to  10 

That's  What  T.J.  Says,  Holiday  House,  1982. 

*  F  8  to  10 

It  Must' ve  Been  the  Fish  Sticks,  Holiday  House,  1 982. 
F  10  to  12 

Picking  up  the  Pieces,  Holiday  House,  1981. 

*  F  10  to  13 

Love  Is  Like  Peanuts,  Holiday  House,  1980. 

*  F  12  and  up 

My  Mom,  the  Money  Nut,  Holiday  House,  1979. 

'  *  F  10  to  12 

The  Ups  and  Downs  ofJorie  Jenkins,  Holiday  House, 
1978. 

*  F  10  to  12 

Bugs  in  Your  Ears,  Holiday  House,  1977. 

*  F  10  to  12 


BROOKS,  Jerome 


BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  July  17,  1931 ,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Evanston,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Roosevelt  University,  Chicago,  B.A.,  1953. 

George  Washington  University,  Washington, 

D.C.,  M.A.,  1957. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING; 

Professor  of  English,  Daley  Campus,  City  Colleges  of 
Chicago. 

OTHER: 

1980,  Teacher  of  the  Year,  Daley  College. 

1 980,  Make  Me  a  Hero,  listed  as  an  outstanding  young 
adult  book  by  ALA’s  Booklist. 

Nominated  for  Wrh.  Frank  Memorial  Award  for  Chil¬ 
dren’s  Literature. 

AUDIENCE: 

Teenage,  General  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Make  Me  a  Hero,  Dutton,  1980. 

*  F  10  to  12 


The  Big  Dipper  Marathon,  Dujtton,  1979. 

*  F  10  to  12 

The  Testing  of  Charlie  Hammelman,  Dutton,  1977. 

*  F  10  to  12 

Uncle  Mike’ s  Boy,  Harper  &  Row,  1973. 

*  F  10  ro  12 

BROWN,  Fern  G. 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  December  23,  1918,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a 
resident  of  Riverwoods,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Chicago  Teachers  College,  B.A.,  1940. 

Northwestern  University,  M.A.,  1956. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Former  teacher.  Grades  3-8. 

OTHER: 

1981-1982,  Carl  Sandburg  Award:  Best  Children’s 
Works  by  Chicago  Author  for  Behind  the  Scenes 
at  the  Horse  Hospital. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Our  Love,  Fawcett-Juniper(Ballantine  Books).  1986. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Horses  and  Foals,  Franklin  Watts,  1985. 

NF  8  to  12 

Amelia  Earhart  Takes  Off,  Albert  Whitman,  1985. 
NF  to  10 

Etiquette,  Watts.  1985. 

NF  8  to  12 

Valentine’ s  Day,  Watts,  1983. 

NE  8  to  12 

Jockey,  or  Else,  Albert  Whitman,  1981. 

*  F  8  to  12 

Behind  the  Scenes  at  the  Horse  Hospital,  Albert  Whit¬ 
man,  1981. 

*  NF  8  to  12 

The  Great  Money  Machine.  Julian  Messner,  1981. 

*  NF  10  to  12 


134 


Bugs  Bunny  Pioneer,  Western  Publishing  Co.,  1978. 

F  5  to  8 

Clue  Club  and  the  Case  of  the  Missing  Race  Horse, 
Rand  McNally,  1977. 

F  5  to  8 

Scooby  Doo  and  the  Santa  Claus  Mystery,  Rand  Mc¬ 
Nally,  1977. 

F  5  to  8 

Dynomutt  and  the  Pie  in  the  Skycaper,  Rand 
McNally,  1977. 

F  5  to  8 

You’re  Somebody  Special  on  a  Horse,  Albert 
Whitman,  1977. 

*  F  8  to  1 2 

Racing  Against  the  Otit/5— Biography  of  Robyn  C. 
Smith,  Raintree,  1976. 

NF  10  to  12 

Scooby  Doo  and  the  Headless  Horseman,  Rand  Mc¬ 
Nally,  1976. 

F  5  to  8 

Scooby  Doo  and  the  Case  of  the  Counterfeit  Money, 
Rand  McNally,  1976. 

F  5  to  8 

Hard  Luck  Horse,  Albert  Whitman,  1975. 

*  F  8  to  12 

When  Grandpa  Wore  Knickers,  Albert  Whitman, 
1966. 

NF  8  to  12 


CAUDILL,  Rebecca  (Mrs.  James  Ayars) 


lOGRAPHY 

Bom  February  2,  1 899,  Poor  Fork  (now  Cumberland), 
Kentucky.  Now  a  resident  of  Urbana,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Sumner  County  High  School,  Portland,  Tennessee. 
Wesleyan  College,  Macon,  Georgia,  B.A.,  1920. 
Vanderbilt  University,  Nashville,  Tennessee,  M.A., 
1922. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

1922-24,  Teacher,  Collegio  Bennett,  Rio  de  Janiero, 
Brazil. 

1925-30,  Editor  of  girls’  magazine,  Nashville,  Ten¬ 


OTHER: 

1956,  Recipient  of  Nancy  Block  Memorial  Award, 
Intercultural  Library,  Downtown  Community 
School,  New  York,  N.Y. 

1967,  Clara  Ingram  Judson  Award  of  Society  of  Mid¬ 
land  Authors  for  A  Certain  Small  Shepherd. 

1969,  Award  (with  James  Ayars),  the  Children’s 
Reading  Round  Table  for  distinguished  service 
in  the  field  of  children’s  reading. 

1972,  Author  of  the  Year  Award,  the  Illinois  Associ¬ 
ation  of  Teachers  of  English. 


AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage,  General  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Wind,  Sand,  and  Sky,  Dutton,  1976. 

P  8  and  up 

Somebody  Go  and  Bang  a  Drum,  Dutton,  1974. 

NF  10  and  up 

Come  Along,  Holt  Rinehart,  1969. 

P  10  and  up 

Contrary  Jenkins  (with  James  Ayars),  Holt  Rinehart, 
1969. 

F  5  and  up 

My  Appalachia,  Holt  Rinehart,  1966. 

NF  12  and  up 

Did  You  Carry  the  Flag  Today,  Charley?,  Holt 
Rinehart,  1966. 

F  5  to  10 

A  Certain  Small  Shepherd,  Holt  Rinehart,  1965. 

F  5  and  up,  including  adult 

A  Pocketful  of  Cricket,  Holt  Rinehart,  1964. 

F  Pre  to  8  (and  up) 

The  Far-Off  Land,  Viking,  1964. 

F  12  and  up 

The  Best-Loved  Doll,  Holt  Rinehart,  1962. 

*  F  Pre  to  8 

Higgins  and  the  Great  Big  Scare,  Holt  Rinehart,  1960. 

*  F  5  to  10 

Time  for  Lissa,  Nelson,  1959. 

*  F  5  to  10 

Schoolroom  in  the  Parlor,  Holt  Rinehart,  1959. 

F  5  to  8 

Susan  Cornish,  Viking,  1955. 

F  12  and  up 

The  House  of  the  Fifers,  Longmans,  Green,  1954. 

F  8  to  10 


135 


nessee. 


Saturday  Cousins,  Holt  Rinehart,  1953. 

F  5  to  10 

Up  and  Down  the  River,  Holt  Rinehart,  1951. 

F  5  to  8 

Schoolhouse  in  the  Woods,  Holt  Rinehart,  1949. 
F  5  to  8 

Tree  of  Freedom,  Viking,  1949. 

F  12  and  up 

Happy  Little  Family,  Holt  Rinehart,  1947. 

F  Pre  to  8 

Barrie  and  Daughter,  Viking  1943. 

F  12  and  up 


CRAIG,  Mary  Shura 
(Shura,  Mary  Francis) 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  February  27,  1923,  in  Kansas.  Now  a  resident  of 
Clarendon  Hills,  Illinois. 

OTHER: 

The  Search  of  Grissi,  Jefferson,  Eleanor,  Chester,  - 
Junior  Literary  Guild  Selections. 

Chester  -  International  Reading  Association  Child¬ 
ren’s  Choice.  Nominations:  William  Allen 
White  Award  (Kansas),  Mark  Twain  Award 
(Missouri),  Texas  Bluebonnet  Award,  South 
Carolina  Children’s  Award,  Sequoyah  Award 
(Oklahoma),  Surrey  School  Book  of  the  Year 
( British  Columbia) ,  Golden  Sower  Award  (Neb¬ 
raska),  Omar’s  Book  Award  (Indiana),  Land  of 
Enchantment  Book  Award.  Winner:  Pine  Tree 
Award. 

Nappies  and  Cinnamunger  -  Child  Study  list.  Nomi¬ 
nations,  Mark  Twain  Award,  Sequoyah  Award, 
Charlie  May  Simon  Award  (Arkansas). 

Mister  Wolf  and  Me  -  Child  Study  List.  Nominations: 
Mark  Twain  Award,  Sequoyah  Award.  Georgia 
Children’s  Award,  Young  Hoosier  Award,  Iowa 
Children’s  Choice. 

The  Gray  Ghosts  of  Taylor  Ridge  -  Child  Study  List. 
Nominations:  Mark  Twain  Award,  Hoosier 
Award. 

Simple  Spigott  -  TV  mini  series,  NHK,  Tokyo,  Japan, 
1985.  Award  for  Distinguished  Contribution  to 
Children’s  Literature,  CMSU,  1974.  Craig  Col¬ 
lection,  U.  of  Oregon,  Eugene,  Oregon  (1968). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Search  of  Grissi,  Dodd,  Mead,  1985. 

F  9  and  up 

Jefferson,  Dodd,  Mead,  1984. 

F  9  and  up 

Eleanor,  Dodd,  Mead,  1983. 

*  F  9  and  up 

Nappies  and  Cinnamunger,  Dodd,  Mead,  1981. 

F  9  to  12 

Chester,  Dodd,  Mead,,  1981. 

*  F  9  and  up 

The  Barkley  Street  Six  Pack,  Dood,  Mead.  1979. 

F  9  to  1 2 

Mister  Wolf  and  Me,  Dodd,  Mead,  1979. 

F  9  and  up 

The  Gray  Ghosts  of  Taylor  Ridge ,  Dodd,  Mead,  1979 
F  9  to  12 

The  Riddle  of  Raven’s  Gulch,  Dodd.  .Mead,  1975 
F  9  to  12 

A  Season  of  Silence,  Atheneum,  1975. 

F  10  and  up 

The  Valley  of  the  Erost  Giants,  Lothrop,  and  Lee  and 
Shepard,  1973. 

F  10  and  up 

TopcatofTam,  Holiday  House,  1972. 

F  7  to  1 1 

The  Seven  Stone,  Holiday  House.  1972. 

F  7  to  1 1 

Pornada,  Atheneum,  1970. 

F  10  and  up 

Backw  ards  for  Luck,  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1967. 

F  9  to  12 

A  Tale  of  Middle  Length,  Atheneum.  1966. 

F  10  and  up 

A  Shoeful  of  Shamrock,  .Atheneum,  1965. 

F  9  to  12 

Runaway  Home,  Alfred  A.  Knopf.  1965. 

F  9  to  12 

The  Nearsighted  Knight,  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1963. 

F  9  to  12 

Mary's  Marvelous  Mouse,  Alfred  A.  Knopf.  1962. 

F  4  to  8 

Garrett  of  Greta  McGraw,  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  1961. 

F  9  to  12 

Simple  Spigott,  Alfred  A.  Knopf.  1960. 


AUDIENCE: 
Children,  Teenage. 


136 


CRAMBLIT,  Joella 

lOGRAPHY 

Born  August  2,'  193 1 ,  Milwaukee,  Wisconsin.  Now  a 
resident  of  Northbrook,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Marquette  University,  B.A.,  1953. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

IBLIOGRAPHY 

Flowers  Are  for  Keeping,  (with  JoAnn  Loebel),  Julian 
Messner,  1979. 

NF  10  to  14  . 

Domino  Games  (with  John  Belton),  Raintree, 
1976. 

NF  8  to  12 

Dice  Games  (with  John  Belton),  Raintree,  1976. 

NF  8  to  12 

Card  Games  (with  John  Belton),  Raintree,  1976. 

NF  8  to  12 

Solitaire  (with  John  Belton),  Raintree,  1975. 

NF  8  to  12 

Let’s  Play  Cards  (with  John  Belton),  Raintree,  1975. 
NF  4  to  8 

DEMUTH,  Patricia 

5IOGRAPHY 

Born  March  16,  1948,  Sioux  City,  Iowa.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Evanston,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Wisconsin,  B.A. 

OTHER: 

Works  with  husband-photographer  Jack  Demuth  in 
illustration  of  books. 

1982,  Joel:  Growing  Up  a  Farm  Man,  Society  of  Mid¬ 
land  Authors  Award.  First  Annual  Book  Award 
by  the  Massachusetts  Farm  Bureau.  1984-85 
nomination,  Mark  Twain  Award  (Missouri). 
1980,  City  Horse  -  “Editors’  Choices,”  ALA  Booklist. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Ma.x  the  Bad  Talking  Parrot,  Dodd,  Mead,  1986. 

F  Pre  to  8 

Joel:  Growing  Up  a  Earm  Man,  Dodd,  Mead,  1982. 
*  NF  8  to  12 

Cit}’  Horse,  Dodd,  Mead,  1980. 

NF  8  to  10 


DUNHAM,  Montrew 


BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  September  19,  1919,  Indianapolis,  Indiana.  Now 
a  resident  of  Downers  Grove,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Butler  University,  B.A. 

Northwestern  University,  M.A. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Guidance  Counselor,  Downer’s  Grove  South  High 
School 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  General  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Downers  Grove:  1832  to  1982,  Downers  Grove  Heri¬ 
tage  Committee,  1982. 

*  NF  12  and  up 

Margaret  Bourke-White:  Young  Photographer, 
Bobbs-Merrill,  1977. 

NF  8  to  10 

John  Muir:  Young  Naturalist,  Bobbs-Merrill,  1975. 

NF  8  to  10 

Mahalia  Jackson:  Young  Gospel  Singer,  Bobbs-Mer¬ 
rill,  1974. 

*  NF  8  to  10 

Langston  Hughes:  Young  Black  Poet,  Bobbs-Merrill, 
1972. 

*  NF  8  to  10 

Anne  Bradstreet:  Young  Puritan  Poet,  Bobbs-Merrill, 
1969. 

NF  8  to  10 

Abner  Doubleday:  Young  Baseball  Pioneer,  Bobbs- 
Merrill,  1965. 

NF  8  to  10 


137 


George  Westinghouse:  Young  Inventor,  Bobbs-Mer- 
rill,  1963. 

NF  8  to  10 

Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Jr.:  Boy  of  Justice,  Bobbs- 
Merrill,  1961. 

NF  8  to  10 


DYGARD,  Thomas  J. 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  August  10,  1931,  Little  Rock,  Arkansas.  Now 
a  resident  of  Arlington  Heights,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Arkansas,  Fayetteville,  Arkansas,  B.A. 
(History),  1953. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Chief  of  Bureau,  the  Associated  Press,  Chicago. 

AUDIENCE: 

Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Wilderness  Peril,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1985. 

E  12  and  up 

Tournament  Upstart,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1984. 

E  12  and  up 

Rebound  Caper,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1983. 

*  E  12  and  up 

Quarterback  Walk-On,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1982. 

E  12  and  up 

Soccer  Duel,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1981 . 

*  E  12  and  up 

Point  Spread,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1980. 

F  12  and  up 

Outside  Shooter,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1979. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Winning  Kicker,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1978. 

F  12  and  up 

Running  Scared,  Morrow  Junior  Books,  1977. 

F  12  and  up 


EMERY,  Anne 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  September  1,  1907,  Fargo,  North  Dakota.  Now 
a  resident  of  Menlo  Park,  California. 
EDUCATION: 

Evanston  Township  High  School. 

Northwestern  University,  degree. 

OTHER: 

1969,  Friends  of  Literature  Citation. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Stepfamily,  Westminster,  1980. 

F 

Free  Not  to  Love,  Westminster.  1975. 

F 

The  Sky  is  Falling,  Westminster,  1970. 

F 

Carey’s  Fortune,  Westminster,  1969. 

F 

Danger  in  a  Smiling  Mask,  Westminister,  1968. 

F 

Mystery  of  the  Opal  Ring,  Westminster,  1967. 

F 

American  Friend:  Herbert  Hoover,  Rand  McNally. 

1967. 

NF 

Jennie  Lee,  Patriot,  Westminster,  1966. 

F 

A  Spy  in  Old  West  Point.  Rand  McNally.  1965. 

F 

The  Losing  Game,  Westminster,  1965. 

*  F 

Dinnx  Gordon,  Junior,  Macrae  Smith,  1964. 

*  F 

A  Spy  in  Old  Detroit,  Rand  McNally.  1963. 

F 

The  Popular  Crowd,  Westminster.  1961. 

p 

Dinnx  Gordon,  Sophomore,  Macrae  Smith,  1961. 

*  F 

A  Spx  in  Old  New  Orleans,  Rand  McNally.  1960. 

F 

That  Archer  Girl,  Westminster.  1959. 

*  F 


138 


Dinny  Gordon,  Freshman,  Macrae  Smith,  1959. 

*  p 

A  Spv  in  Old  Philadelphia,  Rand  McNally,  1958. 
F 

A  Dream  to  Touch,  Macrae  Smith,  1958. 

=c  p 

First  Love  Farewell,  Westminster,  1958. 

*  F 

Married  on  Wednesday,  Macrae  Smith,  1957. 

*  p 

First  Orchid  for  Pat,  Westminster,  1957. 

*  p 

First  Love  True  Love,  Westminster,  1956. 

*  p 

Sweet  Sixteen,  Macrae  Smith,  1956. 

F 

Dinny  Gordon,  Senior,  Macrae  Smith,  1955. 

*  p 

Hickory  Hill,  Macrae  Smith,  1955. 

F 

Campus  Melody,  Westminster.  1955. 

*  p 

High  Note  Low  Note,  Westminster,  1954. 

F 

County  Fair,  Macrae  Smith,  1953. 

F 

Vagabond  Summer,  Westminster,  1953. 

*  p 

Scarlet  Royal,  Macrae  Smith,  1952. 

*  p 

Sorority  Girl,  Westminster,  1952. 

*  p 

Going  Steady,  Westminster,  1950. 

*  p 

Senior  Year,  Westminster,  1949. 

*  p 

Mountain  Laurel,  Putnam,  1948. 

F 

Bright  Horizons,  Putnam,  1947. 

F 

Traditions,  Vanguard,  1946. 

*  p 


FARLEY,  Karin  Clafford 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  April  30,  1929,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Park  Ridge,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Illinois  at  Urbana,  B.S.  (Music  Ed.  and 
English),  1951. 

University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago,  M.Ed.  (Children’s 
Literature  and  Language  Arts)  1984. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Former  music  supervisor  in  Lyons,  Riverside,  Park 
Ridge  and  Mount  Prospect,  Illinois. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Canal  Boy,  David  C.  Cook,  1978. 

NF  10  and  up 

Busy  Ants,  Rand  McNally,  1973. 

NF  Pre 

The  Honeybee,  Rand  McNally,  1972. 

NF  Pre 


FLEISHMAN,  Seymour 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  January  29,  1918,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  res¬ 
ident  of  Chicago. 

EDUCATION: 

Roosevelt  High  School,  Chicago. 

School  of  the  Art  Institute  of  Chicago. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Illustrator  of  picturebooks,  textbooks,  magazines. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Adult. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Too  Hot  in  Potzburg,  (Author-Illustrator),  Albert 
Whitman,  1981. 

F  5  to  8 


139 


Printcrafts  for  Fun  and  Profit,  (Author-Illustrator), 
Albert  Whitman,  1977. 

NF  10  to  12 

Gumhel  the  Fire-hreathinf>  Druf’on,  (Author-Illustra¬ 
tor),  Harvey  House,  1970. 

F  5  to  8 

Four  Cheers  for  Camping,  (Author-Illustrator),  Al¬ 
bert  Whitman,  1963. 

F  5  to  8 

Where’s  Kit?,  (Author-Illustrator),  Albert  Whitman, 
1962. 

F  5  to  8 


GILSON,  Jamie 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  July  4,  1933,  Beardstown,  Illinois.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Wilmette,  Illinos. 

EDUCATION: 

Oak  Park-River  Forest  High  School,  1951. 

Northwestern  University,  Bachelor  of  Speech,  1955. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Columnist,  Chicago  Magazine,  1977  to  present. 

Continuity  Director,  WFMT,  1959-1963. 

Writer-producer,  Division  of  Radio-TV,  Chicago 
Board  of  Education,  1956-1959. 

English-Speech  teacher,  Thacker  Junior  High  School, 
Des  Plaines,  Illinois,  1955-1956. 

OTHER: 

Thirteen  Ways  to  Sink  a  Suh  -  Sequoya  Award  (Okla¬ 
homa). 

Pacific  Northwest  Library  Association  Young 
Reader's  Choice  Award  (voted  by  Alaska,  Al¬ 
berta,  British  Columbia,  Idaho,  Montana,  Ore¬ 
gon  and  Washington  children). 

Do  Bananas  Chew  Gum?  -  Carl  Sandburg  Award, 
Friends  of  the  Chicago  Public  Library.  Charlie 
May  Simon  Award  (Arkansas). 

Harvey,  the  Beer  Can  King  -  Juvenile  Book  Merit 
Award,  Eriends  of  American  Writers. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Hello,  My  Name  is  Scrambled  Eggs,  Lothrop,  Lee  & 
Shepard,  1985. 

*  F  8  to  12 

4B  Goes  Wild,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard,  1983. 

*  E  8  to  12 

Thirteen  Ways  to  Sink  a  Sub,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard, 
1982. 

*  E  8  to  12 

Can't  Catch  Me,  Tm  the  Gingerbread  Man,  Lothrop, 
Lee  &  Shepard,  1981. 

*  F  8  to  12 

Do  Bananas  Chew  Gum?,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard, 
1980. 

*  F  8  to  12 

DialLeroi Rupert,  DJ,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard,  1979. 

*  F  8  to  12 

Harvey,  the  Beer  Can  King,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard. 
1978. 

*  L  8  to  12 


GIRARD,  Linda  Walvoord 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  November  16,  1942,  Amsterdam,  New  York. 
Now  a  resident  of  Barrington,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION; 

Hope  College,  Holland,  Michigan.  B.A.,  1964. 
University  of  Chicago,  M.A.  (English),  1966. 
University  of  Chicago,  doctoral  coursework  completed. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

1977-78,  Editor  of  Teacher  Education  Publications. 
David  C.  Cook. 

1970-71,  Assistant  Professor,  North  Central  College. 
Naperville,  Illinois. 

1966-68,  Instructor  in  English,  Millikin  University. 
Decatur,  Illinois. 

OTHER: 

1 985 ,  Who  Is  a  Stranger  and  What  Should  I  Do?,  star¬ 
red  review  in  ALA  Booklist. 

1985,  Illinois  Arts  Council  Eellowship  in  Poetry. 
1983,  Pablo  Nemda  Prize  Einalist  (writing). 


140 


1965-66,  University  of  Chicago  Fellow  (graduate 
work). 

1964-65,  Ford  Fellow,  University  of  Chicago  (grad¬ 
uate  work). 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Literary  Adult. 

IBLIOGRAPHY 

Earth,  Sea,  and  Sky:  The  Life  and  Work  of  Edmond 
Halley,  A.  Whitman,  1985 

NE  10  and  up 

Who  Is  a  Stranger  and  What  Should  I  Do?,  A.  Whit¬ 
man,  1985. 

NF  Pre  5  to  8 

My  Body  Is  Private,  A.  Whitman,  1984. 

NF  Pre  5  to  8 

You  Were  Born  on  Your  Very  First  Birthday,  A.  Whit¬ 
man,  1983. 

NF  Pre  5  to  8 


GOLDBERGER,  Judith  Martinovna 

IIOGRAPHY 

Born  December  18,  1948,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a 
resident  of  Highland  Park,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION; 

Roosevelt  University,  B.A.,  1970. 

University  of  Chicago,  M.A.  (Library  Science),  1973. 
(Library  Work  with  Children) 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

1973-75,  children’s  book  reviewer  (full  time)  ALA 
Booklist  magazine. 

1975-83,  children’s  book  reviewer  (free  lance)  ALA 
Booklist  magazine. 

1975-present,  freelance  writer,  reviewer,  editor,  writ¬ 
ing  teacher,  librarian. 

OTHER; 

1983,  Recipient  of  Illinois  Arts  Council  Work  in  Pro¬ 
gress  Grant. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Looking  Glass  Factor,  Dutton,  1979. 

F  10  to  12 


GRAEBER,  Charlotte  Towner 
BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  June  23,  1930,  Peoria,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Elgin,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Illinois. 

Northwestern  University. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Elgin  Community  College,  Creative  Writing  Instructor. 

OTHER: 

1983,  Mustard,  Irma  Simonton  Black  Award. 

1 979,  Grey  Cloud,  Friends  of  American  Writers  Award. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Mr.  T  and  Me  (series,  12  books),  Thomas  Nelson, 
1985. 

E  6  to  9 

The  Thing  in  Kat’s  Attic,  Dutton,  1984. 

F  7  to  1 1 

Up,  Down  and  Around  the  Rain  Tree,  David  C.  Cook, 
1984. 

F  4  to  9 

In,  Out  and  About  Catfish  Pond,  DavidC.  Cook,  1984. 

F  4  to  9 

Mustard,  Macmillan,  1982. 

F  7  to  1 1 

Grey  Cloud,  Four  Winds,  1979. 

*  F  8  to  14 


HAAS,  Carolyn  Buhai 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  January  1,  1926,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  res 
idem  of  Glencoe,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Smith  College,  B.  Ed. 

National  College  of  Education,  graduate  work. 
Chicago  Art  Institute,  graduate  work. 


141 


WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

President,  Cbh  Publishing,  Inc.  (writer,  editor,  pub¬ 
lisher). 

Mail  order  book  business. 

Parent,  educator,  teacher. 

Syndicated  comic  strip  (8  years). 

Columnist,  Day  Care  &  Early  Education  magazine. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Parents,  Teachers,  Librarians. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Look  at  Me:  Activities  for  Babies  and  Toddlers,  Cbh 
Publishing,  1985. 

NF  Birth  to  4  Pre 

Recipes  for  Eun  and  Learning,  Cbh  Publishing,  1983. 
NF  5  to  12 

Purple  Cow  to  the  Rescue  (co-author).  Little  Brown, 

1983. 

NF  3  to  8 

Backyard  Vacation  (co-author).  Little  Brown,  1980. 
NF  5  to  12  Children 

Are  Children  Are  Children  (co-author).  Little  Brown, 
1978. 

NF  5  to  12 

A  Pumpkin  in  a  Pear  Tree  (co-author).  Little  Brown, 
1975. 

5  to  8 

I  Saw  a  Purple  Cow  (co-author).  Little  Brown,  1972. 
NF  Pre  5  to  8 


HAAS,  Dorothy  F.  (Francis,  Dee) 
BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  in  Racine,  Wisconsin.  Now  a  resident  of  Chicago. 
EDUCATION: 

Marquette  University,  B.S.  (English),  1955. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

1970-1983,  Editor,  Books  for  Children,  Trade  Division, 
Rand  McNally. 

1968-1970,  Senior  Editor,  World  Book/Childcraft. 
1955-1968,  Senior  Editor,  Western  Publishing  Co., 
Whitman  Division. 

OTHER: 

1984,  Tink  in  a  Tangle  -  “Editors’  Choice,”  ALA  Book¬ 
list. 


1981,  Poppy  and  the  Outdoors  Cat  -  Featured,  Booklist 
Open  Forum,  ALA  Annual  Conference. 

1978-1984,  The  Bears  Upstairs —  English  Speaking 
Union  Selection.  Deutscher  Jugendbuchpreis 
(Germany,  Notable  Book).  Nominations:  The 
Sequoyah  Award  (Oklahoma),  Mark  Twain 
Award  (Missouri),  Maud  Hart  Lovelace  Award 
(Minnesota),  Golden  Sower  Award  (Nebraska), 
Omar’s  Book  Award  (Indiana). 

1979,  Children’s  Reading  Round  Table  Award  for  dis¬ 
tinguished  service  in  field  of  children’s  books. 

1984-86, Member  READ  ILLINOIS  Advisory  Commit¬ 
tee. 

In  addition  to  titles  listed  in  bibliography,  has  written 
numerous  books  for  Disney,  MGM,  Hanna  Barb- 
era,  and  other  proprietors  of  licensed  characters. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Dorothy  and  the  Seven-Leaf  Clover,  Random  House, 

1985. 

F  8  to  1 1 

Tink  in  a  Tangle,  Albert  Whitman,  1984. 

*  F  8  to  1 1 

Poppy  and  the  Outdoors  Cat,  Albert  Whitman,  1981. 

*  F  8  to  1 1 

The  Bears  Upstairs,  Greenwillow,  1978. 

*  F  8  to  12 

This  Little  Pony,  Western  Publishing,  Whitman  Divis¬ 
ion,  1967. 

F  3  to  6 

A  Special  Place  for  Jonny,  Western  Whitman.  1966. 

F  6  to  8 

Maria — Evervbody  Has  a  Name,  Westera  Whitman, 
1966. 

F  6  to  8 

Grandpapa  and  Me,  Western/ Whitman,  1966. 

F  3  to  6 

Especially  Erom  Thomas,  Western  Whitman.  1965. 

F  3  to  6 

Patrick  and  the  Duckling.  Western  Whitman.  1963. 

F  3  to  6 

A  Penny  for  Whiffles,  Western- Whitman,  1%2. 

F  3  to  6 

Oh,  Look!,  Western^ Whitman.  1961. 

F  3  to  6 

Soda  Pop,  Western  Whitman.  1960. 

F  3  to  6 

That  Puppy,  Western,  Whitman.  1960. 

F  3  to  6 


Men  of  Science,  Westem/Whitman,  1959. 

NF  8  to  12 

Christopher  John  s  Fuzzy  Blanket,  Westem/Whitman, 
1959. 

F  3  to  6 

Mimi,  the  Merry-Go-Round  Cat,  Westem/Whitman, 
1958. 

F  3  to  6 

Little  Joe’ s  Puppy,  Westem/Whitman,  1957. 

F  3  to  6 


HERMAN,  Charlotte 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  June  10,  1937,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Lincolnwood,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION; 

Roosevelt  University,  B.A.  (Education). 

University  of  Illinois. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Former  teacher  in  Chicago  Public  Schools. 

OTHER; 

1977,  Our  Snowman  Had  Olive  Eyes  -  Society  of  Mid¬ 
land  Authors  Children’s  Book  Award. 
Nominations;  Mark  Twain  Award  (Missouri),  Young 
Hoosiers  Award. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Millie  Cooper,  SB,  Dutton,  1985. 

*  F  8  to  10 

What  Happened  to  Heather  Hopkowitz? ,  Dutton,  1981. 

F  10  to  12 

My  Mother  Didn’t  Kiss  Me  Good-night,  Dutton,  1980. 
F  5  to  8 

On  the  Way  to  the  Movies,  Dutton,  1980. 

F  5  to  8 

Our  Snowman  Had  Olive  Eyes,  Dutton,  1977. 

F  8  to  10 

The  Difference  of  Ari  Stein,  Harper  &  Row,  1976. 

F  10  to  12 


You’ve  Come  A  Long  Way,  Sybil  Macintosh,  J.  Philip 
O’Hara,  1974. 

NF  8  to  10 

The  Three  of  Us,  J.  Philip  O’Hara,  1973. 

F  8  to  10 

String  Bean,  J.  Philip  O’Hara,  1972. 

F  5  to  8 


HIRSCH,  S.  Carl 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  November  29,  1913,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a 
resident  of  Evanston,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Marshall  High  School. 

Northwestern  University. 

Mundelein  College,  B.A.,  1982. 

Northeastern  Illinois  University,  M.A.,  1985. 

OTHER; 

1976,  He  and  She:  How  Males  and  Females  Behave  - 
Society  of  Midland  Authors  Award. 

1973,  The  Children’s  Reading  Round  Table  Award 
for  distinguished  service  in  the  field  of  children’s 
literature. 

1973,  The  Riddle  of  Racism  -  Jane  Addams  Award. 

1 966,  The  Living  Community  -  Thomas  Alva  Edison 
Award,  Best  Children’s  Science  Book,  Judson 
Memorial  Award. 

1963,  The  Globe  for  the  Space  Age  -  Thomas  Alva 
Edison  Award,  Best  Children’s  Science  Book. 

AUDIENCE: 

Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Theatre  of  the  Night,  Rand  McNally,  1976. 

NF 

He  and  She:  How  Males  and  Females  Behave,  Lippin- 
cott,  1976. 

NF 

Famous  American  Heroes  of  the  Revolution,  Rand 
McNally,  1975. 

NF 

Famous  American  Indians  of  the  Plains,  Rand  Mc¬ 
Nally,  1974. 

NF 

The  Riddle  of  Racism,  Viking,  1973. 

NF 


143 


Meter  Means  Measure,  Viking,  1971. 

NF 

Stilts,  Viking,  1971. 

NF 

On  Course!,  Viking,  1970. 

NF 

Mapmakers  of  America,  Viking,  1969. 

NF 

Printing  from  a  Stone,  Viking,  1967. 

NF 

The  Living  Community,  Viking,  1966. 

NF 

Fourscore  and  More,  Viking,  1965. 

NF 

This  is  Automation,  Viking,  1964. 

NF 

The  Globe  for  the  Space  Age,  Viking,  1963. 
NF 


HORMANN,  Toni 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  May  9,  1930,  Detroit,  Michigan.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Villa  Park,  Illinois. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Illustrator.  In  past  has  done  everything  “from  factory 
work  to  waitressing  to  interior  design  with  a  lot 
of  etc.  in  between.” 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Onions  Onions  (Author),  T.Y.  Crowell,  1981. 

F 


HOOKER,  Ruth 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  April  30,  1920,  Rockville  Center,  Long  Island, 
New  York.  Now  a  resident  of  Naperville,  Illinois. 


EDUCATION: 

University  of  Northern  Illinois,  DeKalb. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Children’s  Librarian. 

OTHER: 

1971,  Gertrude  Kloppenberg  (Private)  -  Friends  of 
American  Writers  Award. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Kidnapping  of  Anna  (with  Carole  Smith),  Albert 
Whitman,  1979. 

F  10  to  12 

The  Pelican  Mystery  (with  Carole  Smith),  Albert 
Whitman,  1977. 

F  10  to  12 

Kennaquhair,  Abingdon,  1976. 

F  10  to  12 

Gertrude  Kloppenberg  II,  Abingdon.  1974. 

F  8  to  10 

Gertrude  Kloppenberg  (Private),  Abingdon,  1970. 

F  8  to  10 


HUNT,  Irene 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  May  18,  1907,  Newton,  Illinois.  Later  moved  to 
St.  Petersburg.  Florida. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Illinois,  B.A.,  1939. 

University  of  Minnesota,  M.A.,  1946. 

University  of  Colorado.  ; 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Teacher,  Oak  Park,  Illinois  public  schools.  1930-  1945.  ! 

Instructor,  University  of  South  Dakota,  1 946  - 1 950.  | 

Teacher,  1950  -  1965,  director  of  language  arts,  1965  I 
-  1969,  Cicero,  Illinois  public  schools. 

OTHER: 

1967,  Newbery  Medal,  Up  a  Road  Slowly. 


144 


[BLIOGRAPHY 

Claws  ofa  Young  Century;  a  Novel,  Scribners,  1980. 
F 

William,  Scribners,  1977. 

F 

The  Lottery  Rose;  a  Novel,  Scribners,  1976. 

F 

Growing  with  American  (kit),  1975. 

F 

No  Promises  in  the  Wind,  Follett,  1970. 

F 

Trail  of  Apple  Blossoms,  Follett,  1968. 

F 

Up  a  Road  Slowly,  Follett,  1966. 

F 

Across  Five  Aprils,  Follett,  1964. 

F 


JACKSON,  Jacqueline 

IIOGRAPHY 

Now  a  resident  of  Springfield,  Illinois. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Faculty,  Sangamon  State  University. 

OTHER: 

1966,  The  Taste  of  Spruce  Gum  -  ALA  Notable  Chil¬ 
dren’s  Book.  Dorothy  Canfield  Fisher  Award 
(Vermont). 

Missing  Melinda,  The  Ghost  Boat,  The  Endless  Pave¬ 
ment,  Chicken  Ten  Thousand  -  Junior  Literary 
Guild  selections. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Endless  Pavement  (with  William  Perlmutter), 
Seabury,  1973. 

F 

The  Orchestra  Mice,  Reilly  and  Lee,  1970. 

F  Pre 

Spring  Song,  Kent  State  University  Press,  1969. 

F  Pre 


The  Ghost  Boat,  Little,  Brown,  1969. 

F 

Chicken  Ten  Thousand,  Little,  Brown,  1968. 

F  Pre 

Missing  Melinda,  Little,  Brown,  1967. 

F 

The  Taste  of  Spruce  Gum,  Little,  Brown,  1966. 
F 

The  Paleface  Redskins,  Little,  Brown,  1958. 

F 

Julie’ s  Secret  Sloth,  Little,  Brown,  1953. 

F 


JOHNSON,  Mildred  D. 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  in  Baltimore,  Maryland.  Now  a  resident  of 
Chicago. 

EDUCATION: 

National  College  of  Education,  B.A.  (Elementary 
Education). 

Governors  State  University,  M.A.  (Language  and 
Ethnic  Studies). 

Roosevelt  University,  graduate  course  work. 

Coppin  Teachers  College,  Baltimore,  Maryland, 
graduate. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Principal,  The  Howalton  School,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

Founder,  Director  SAY  Children’s  Theater. 

OTHER: 

1963-1982,  Annual  SAY  Children’s  Theater  Ap¬ 
preciation  Award. 

1973  to  present  -  Library,  Civic,  and  Author  Awards. 

1982,  Local  and  National  Women  in  Management 
Award. 

1981,  National  Award  for  the  Arts,  N.A.A.C.P. 
Conferred  in  Cincinnati. 

1982,  Wait,  Skates,  Carl  Sandburg  Award  for  Child¬ 
ren’s  Literature. 

You  Can  Be  Like  Martin,  a  Response.  Poem  and  an 
educational  kit  accepted  by  the  Chicago  Board 
of  Education  for  distribution  to  schools. 

Just  a  Eew  Lines:  Poems  to  Teach  Black  Pride,  accept¬ 
ed  by  the  Chicago  Board  of  Education  and  the 
Chicago  Public  Library  for  distribution. 


145 


AUDIENCE: 

Writes  largely  for  black  and  minority  audience  to  in¬ 
culcate  self-esteem,  pride,  and  a  history  or  story 
of  the  minority  culture. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

A  body  of  self-published  materials,  including  plays, 
stories,  and  poems  for  special  occasions,  1982- 
1985. 

Wait,  Skates,  Children’s  Press,  1982 

I’ll  Take  America,  A  Bicentennial  Appreciation,  1976. 

If  a  Bird  Can  Sing,  Inspirational  Poems,  self  publish¬ 
ed,  1975. 

Wou  Can  Be  Like  Martin,  A  Response  Poem,  1973. 

Just  a  Few  Lines:  Poems  toTeach  Black  Pride,  1971 . 

LAWSON,  Don 

BIOGRAPHY 

Born  May  20,  1917,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Chicago,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Cornell  College,  B.A. 

Graduate  School ,  University  of  Iowa  Writers  Workshop. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Former  Editor-in-Chief,  Compton’s  Encyclopedia. 

Former  Editor-in-Chief,  American  Educator  Encyclo¬ 
pedia. 

OTHER: 

Several  books.  United  States  in  the  Vietnam  War,  The 
Long  March,  etc.,  have  been  named  Notable 
Books  of  the  Year  by  American  Library  Associ¬ 
ation  and  Social  Studies  Council. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Eagle  and  the  Dragon  -  History'  of  U.S.-China  Re¬ 
lations,  T.  Y.  Crowell,  1985. 

NF  12  and  up 

Geraldine  Ferraro,  Simon  and  Schuster,  1985. 

NF  8  to  12 

Marcos  and  the  Philippines,  Franklin  Watts, 
1984. 

NF  8  to  12 


The  French  Resistance,  Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 
NF  8  to  12 

The  KGB,  Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 

NF  8  to  12 

The  Pacific  States,  Franklin  Watts,  1984. 

NF  8  to  10  1 

I 

The  Long  March,  Thomas  Y.  Crowell,  1983.  | 

NF  12  and  up  i 

Libya  and  Qaddafi,  Franklin  Watts,  1982.  I 

NF  8  to  12  I 

The  War  in  Vietnam,  Franklin  Watts,  1981.  i 

NF  8  to  10 

The  United  States  in  the  Vietnam  War,  T.  Y.  Crowell,! 
1981.  I 

*  1  Chapter  NF  12  and  up  ! 

The  Picture  Life  of  Ronald  Reagan,  Franklin  Watts,! 
1981  (Revised  1985). 

*  Partly  NF  8  to  10 

An  Album  of  World  War  II,  Homefronts,  Franklin 
Watts,  1980. 

NF  8  to  12 

The  Changing  Face  of  the  Constitution,  Franklin  1 
Watts,  1979. 

NF  12  and  up 

FDR’s  New  Deal,  T.  Y.  Crowell,  1979. 

NF  12  and  up 

Democracy,  Franklin  Watts,  1978. 

NF  12  and  up 

Morocco,  Algeria,  Tunisia,  and  Libya,  Franklin  1 
Watts,  1978.  I 

NF  8  to  12 

The  Secret  World  War  II,  Franklin  Watts,  1978.  , 

NF  8  to  12  1 

Education  Careers,  Franklin  Watts,  1977.  I 

NF  12  and  up  j 

The  United  States  in  the  Civil  War,  Abelard-Schuman,  j 
1977. 

NF  12  and  up  | 

f 

The  United  States  in  the  Spanish-American  War,  i 
Abelard-Schuman,  1976.  i 

NF  12  and  up  ^ 

The  United  States  in  the  Mexican  War,  Abelard-Schu-I 
man,  1976. 

NF  12  and  up 

The  United  States  in  the  Indian  Wars,  Abelard-Schu- 1 
man,  1975.  I 

NF  12  and  up  : 


146 


The  American  Revolution,  Abelard-Schuman,  1974. 
NF  12  and  up 

The  Colonial  Wars,  Abelard-Schuman,  1972. 

NF  12  and  up 

Ten  Fighters  for  Peace,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard, 
1971. 

NF  12  and  up 

Youth  and  War,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard,  1969. 

NF  12  and  up 

The  Lion  and  the  Rock— the  Story  of  the  Rock  of  Gi¬ 
braltar,  Abelard-Schuman,  1969 
NF  12  and  up 

Great  Air  Battles,  Lothrop,  Lee  &  Shepard,  1968. 
NF  12  and  up 

Frances  Perkins,  First  Lady  of  the  Cabinet,  Abelard- 
Schuman,  1966. 

NF  12  and  up 

The  War  of  1812,  Abelard-Schuman,  1966. 

*  Partly  NF  12  and  up 

Famous  American  Political  Families,  Abelard-Schu¬ 
man,  1965. 

NF  12  and  up 

The  United  States  in  the  Korean  War,  Abelard-Schu¬ 
man,  1964. 

NF  12  and  up 

The  United  States  in  World  War  11,  Abelard-Schuman, 
1963. 

NF  12  and  up 

The  United  States  in  World  War  I,  Abelard-Schu¬ 
man,  1963. 

NF  12  and  up 

Young  People  in  the  White  House,  Abelard-Schuman, 
1961  (revised  1970). 

NF  8  to  12 

A  Brand  for  the  Burning,  Abelard-Schuman,  1961. 

*  F  12  and  up 


OTHER; 

On  the  Forest  Edge  -  Special  Artistic  Merit  Award 
from  friends  of  American  Writers. 

1980-1982-1983,  Seasons  of  the  Tallgrass  Prairie  - 
ALA  Notable  Children  Book.  Nomination: 
William  Allen  White  Children’s  Book  Award 
(Kansas).  English-Speaking  Union  of  the  U.S., 
Ambassador  of  Honor  Book.  Outstanding  Sci¬ 
ence  Trade  Books  for  Children. 

1982,  A  Biblical  Garden  -  ALA  Notable  Children’s 
Book.  Outstanding  Science  Trade  Books  for 
Children,  1983. 

1983-1984,  Pitcher  Plants  -  Carl  Sandburg  Award  for 
Children’s  Literature.  ALA  Notable  Children’s 
Book.  Outstanding  Science  Trade  Books  for 
Children. 

Numerous  awards  for  illustrated  oooks  written  by  other 
authors. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Pitcher  Plants:  The  Elegant  Insect  Traps  (Author-Il¬ 
lustrator),  Morrow,  1983. 

NF  9  to  12 

A  Biblical  Garden,  (Author-Illustrator),  Morrow, 
1982. 

NF  10  and  up 

Seasons  of  the  Tallgrass  Prairie,  (Author-Illustrator), 
Morrow,  1980. 

*  NF  7  to  10 

Flowers  of  a  Woodland  Spring,  (Author-Illustrator), 
Morrow,  1979. 

NF  6  to  10 

On  the  Forest  Edge,  (Author-Illustrator),  Morrow, 
1978. 

NF  7  to  10 


LERNER,  Carol 

lOGRAPHY 

Bom  July  6,  1927,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Chicago,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Chicago,  B.A.,  M.A.  (History). 
WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 


McGOWEN,  Tom 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  May  6,  1927,  Evanston,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
Norridge,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION; 

Nicholas  Senn  High  School,  Chicago. 

Roosevelt  University,  Chicago. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING; 

Senior  Editor,  World  Book,  Inc. 


Illustrator. 


147 


OTHER: 

1980,  Album  of  Whales  -  Outstanding  Science  Book 
for  Children. 

Album  of  Prehistoric  Man  -  Outstanding  Book  by  Nat¬ 
ional  Association  of  Social  Science  Teachers. 
Dragon  Stew,  made  into  an  animated  film. 

AUDIENCE; 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Radioactivity',  Franklin  Watts,  1985. 

NF  12  and  up 

First  Book  of  Wargaming,  Franklin  Watts,  1985 
NF  12  and  up 

King’s  Quest,  Dragon  Publishing  (TSR),  1984. 

F  8  to  12  and  up 

Midway  and  Guadalcanal,  Franklin  Watts,  1984. 

NF  12  and  up 

Album  of  Spaceflight.  Rand  McNally,  1983. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Birds,  Rand  McNally,  1982. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Encyclopedia  of  Legendary’  Creatures,  Rand  Mc¬ 
Nally,  1981. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Rocks  and  Minerals,  Rand  McNally,  1981. 
NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Whales,  Rand  McNally,  1980. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Astronomy,  Rand  McNally,  1979. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Reptiles,  Rand  McNally,  1978. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Sharks,  Rand  McNally,  1977. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

The  Spirit  of  the  Wild,  Little,  Brown,  1976. 

F  12  and  up 

Odyssey  From  River  Bend,  Little,  Brown,  1975. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Album  of  Prehistoric  Man,  Rand  McNally,  1975. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Prehistoric  Animals,  Rand  McNally,  1974. 
NF  8  to  12  and  up 

Album  of  Dinosaurs,  Rand  McNally,  1972. 

NF  8  to  12  and  up 

The  Fearless  Fossil  Hunters,  Albert  Whitman,  1971. 

F  8  to  10 


Sir  MacHinery,  Follett,  1970. 

F  12  and  up 

The  Biggest  Toot  in  Toozelburg,  Reilly  &  Lee,  1970. 

F  8  to  10 

Hammet  and  the  Highlanders,  Follett,  1970.  ; 

F  8  to  10  I 

The  Last  Voyage  of  the  Unlucky  Katie  Marie,  Albert 
Whitman,  1969. 

F  8  to  10 

I 

Dragon  Stew,  Follett,  1969.  ! 

F  8  to  10  ; 

The  Apple  Strudel  Soldier,  Follett,  1968. 

F  8  to  10 

I 

The  Only  Glupmaker  in  the  U.S.  Navy,  Albert 
Whitman,  1966.  | 

F  8  to  10 


McINERNEY,  Judith  Whitelock 
BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  June  1,  1945,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Decatur,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Marquette  University,  College  of  Journalism,  degree. 
1967. 

OTHER: 

Superdog  titles  have  been  nominated  for  awards  ir 
Tennessee,  Arkansas,  Indiana. 

Critics  Choice. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

\ 

Judge  Benjamin:  The  Superdog  Gift,  Holiday  Houst 
1986. 

Judge  Benjamin:  The  Superdog  Surprise.  Holiday 
House,  1985. 

*  F  8  to  12 

Judge  Benjamin:  The  Superdog  Rescue,  Holida} 
House,  1984. 

*  F  8  to  12 

Judge  Benjamin:  The  Superdog  Secret.  Holida; 
House,  1983. 

*  F  8  to  12 

Judge  Benjamin:  Superdog,  Holiday  House.  1982.  ! 

*  F  8  to  12 


148 


MARKO,  Katherine  D.M. 


Junior  Literary  Guild  selection  -  The  Candle  and  the 
Mirror. 


3GRAPHY 

Bom  November  26,  1913,  Allentown,  Pennsylvania. 
Now  a  resident  of  Elgin,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

High  school  graduate. 

OTHER: 

The  Sod  Turners  selected  for  Child  Study  Association 
list. 

Prizes  for  shorter  material. 

Articles  for  religious  magazines. 

Text  for  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  Junior. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Adult. 

BLIOGRAPHY 

Away  to  Tandy  Bay,  Walker,  1985. 

F  10  to  12 

God,  Why  Did  Dad  Lose  His  Job? ,  Concordia,  1982. 

F  10  to  12 

How  the  Wind  Blows,  Abingdon,  1981. 

NF  6  to  8 

Whales,  Giants  of  the  Sea,  Abingdon,  1980. 

NF  6  to  8 

God,  When  Will  I  Ever  Belong? ,  Concordia,  1979. 

F  10  to  12 

The  Sod  Turners,  Criterion,  1970. 

F  10  to  12 

MAYS,  Lucinda  L. 

lOGRAPHY 

Bom  June  16,  1924,  Latrobe,  Pennsylvania.  Now  a 
resident  of  Glenview,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Washington  University,  St.  Louis,  B.A.,  1962. 
Washington  University,  St.  Louis,  M.A.,  1968. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

1962-1975,  Teacher  in  English  and  Social  Studies. 

OTHER: 

1979,  Society  of  Midland  Authors  Award  for  Best  Ju¬ 
venile  Book,  The  Other  Shore. 


AUDIENCE: 

Teenage,  Young  Adults,  General  Adult. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Candle  and  the  Mirror,  Atheneum,  1982. 

*  F  12  and  up 

The  Other  Shore,  Atheneum,  1979. 

F  12  and  up 

OLEKSY,  Walter 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  June  24,  1930,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Evanston,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Wells  High  School,  Chicago,  1948. 

University  of  Illinois  at  Navy  Pier,  (1951-1958). 
Michigan  State  University,  (1953-55). 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

City  News  Bureau,  Chicago  Tribune,  Allstate  Insur¬ 
ance  Co. 

OTHER: 

If  Tm  Lost,  How  Come  I  Found  You?,  became  an 
ABC-TV  movie. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage,  General  Adult. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Nuclear  Arms  Race,  Franklin  Watts,  1986. 

NF  10  to  14 

Miracles  of  Genetics,  Children’s  Press,  1986. 

NF  10  to  14 

The  Video  Revolution,  Children’s  Press,  1986. 

NF  8  to  12 

Laser  Technology,  Children’s  Press,  1986. 

NF  8  to  12 

Be  Aware  Books,  Modem  Publishing,  1985. 

NF  Pre 

Treasurers  of  the  Deep,  Julian  Messner,  1984. 

NF  10  and  up 

The  Final  Act,  Berkely-Jove,  1984. 

*  F  12  and  up 


149 


.1 
1 1 


Bug  Scanner  and  the  Computer  Mystery ,  Walker,  1983. 

F  8  to  12 

Paramedics,  Julian  Messner,  1983. 

NF  12  and  up 

UFOs:  Teen  Sightings,  Julian  Messner,  1983. 

NF  12  and  up 

One-Way  Trip,  Berkley-Jove,  1983. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Easy  Way  Out,  Berkley-Jove,  1983. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Quacky  and  the  Crazy  Cur\’e-Ball,  McGraw-Hill,  1982. 

F  8  to  12 

Quacky’  and  the  Haunted  Amusement  Park,  McGraw- 
V  Hill,  1982. 

F  8  to  12 

Up  From  Nowhere,  Berkley-Jove,  1982. 

*  F  12  and  up 

The  Pirates  of  Dead  Man  s  Cay,  Westminster, 
1982. 

F  8  to  12 

The  Black  Plague,  Franklin  Watts,  1982. 

NF  8  to  12 

Nature  Gone  Wild!,  Julian  Messner,  1982. 

NF  8  to  12 

The  Golden  Goat,  Baker  Books,  1981. 

F  8  to  12 

Treasurers  of  the  Land,  Julian  Messner,  1981. 

NF  8  to  12 

It's  Women  s  Work,  Too!,  Julian  Messner,  1980. 

NF  8  to  12 

Careers  in  the  Animal  Kingdom,  Julian  Messner,  1980. 

F  8  to  12 

Visitors  from  Outer  Space?,  Putnam’s,  1979. 

If  I’m  Lost,  How  Come  I  Found  You?,  McGraw-Hill, 
1977. 

F  8  to  12 

The  Universe  Is  Within  Is  Within  You,  Julian  Messner, 
1977. 

NF  12  and  up 

Laugh,  Clown,  Cry  (biography  of  Charlie  Chaplin), 
Raintree,  1976. 

NF  8  to  12 

OSBORN,  Lois 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  October  22,  1915,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Elmhurst,  Illinois. 


EDUCATION: 

M  S.,  Education. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING; 

Retired  teacher. 

AUDIENCE: 

I 

Children,  Adult.  | 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

My  Dad  Is  Really  Something,  Moen'Whiixm.n,  1983.  [ 
F  5  to  8 

My  Brother  Is  Afraid  of  Just  About  Everything,  Albert 
Whitman,  1982. 

F  5  to  8 


PECK,  Richard 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  April  5,  1934,  Decatur,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  New  York,  N.Y. 

EDUCATION: 

Stephen  Decatur  High  School. 

Exeter  University,  England. 

DePauw  University,  B.A. 

Southern  Illinois  University,  M.A.  | 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Taught  at  Southern  Illinois  University;  Glenbrook  ' 
North  High  School,  Northbrook,  Illinois;  and 
Hunter  College  High  School,  New  York  City.  ' 

OTHER; 

Edgar  Allen  Poe  Award,  YASD  Best  of  the  Best  for 
Are  You  in  the  House  Alone? 

YASD  Best  of  the  Best  for  Ghosts  I  Have  Seen. 
Edgar  Allen  Poe  Award  for  Dreamland  Lake. 

YASD  Best  of  the  Best  for  Father  Figure. 

SLJ  Best  Book  for  Young  Adults  for  This  Family  oj 
Woman . 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage,  General  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Blossom  C  ulp  and  the  Sleep  of  Death .  Delacorte .  1 986 .  j 

*  F  10  and  up  ‘ 

Remembering  the  Good  Times,  Delacorte.  1985. 

*  F  10  and  up 


150 


The  Dreadful  Future  of  Blossom  Culp,  Delacorte,  1984. 

*  F  10  and  up 

This  Family  of  Woman,  Delacorte,  1983. 

*  F  General  Adult 

Close  Enough  to  Touch,  Delacorte,  1981. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Secrets  of  the  Shopping  Mall,  Delacorte,  1979. 

F  12  and  up 

Father  Figure,  Viking,  1978. 

F  12  and  up 

Monster  Night  at  Grandma’ s  House,  Viking,  1977. 

*  F  5  to  8 

Ghosts  I  Have  Been,  Viking,  1977. 

*  F  10  and  up 

Are  You  in  the  House  Alone? ,  Viking,  1976. 

F  12  and  up 

The  Ghost  Belonged  to  Me,  Viking,  1975. 

*  F  10  and  up 

Representing  Super  Doll,  Viking,  1974. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Through  a  Brief  Darkness,  Viking,  1973. 

F  12  and  up 

Dreamland  Lake,  Holt,  Rinehart  &  Winston,  1973. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Don’t  Look  and  It  Won’ t  Hurt,  Holt,  Rinehart  &  Win¬ 
ston,  1972. 

*  F  12  and  up 


PEVSNER,  Stella 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  in  Lincoln,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident  of  Palatine, 
Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Illinois  State  Univeristy. 

Northwestern  Univeristy,  specialized  classes. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Formerly  advertising  copywriter,  public  relations,  cos¬ 
metic  house. 

OTHER: 

1980,  Cute  is  a  Four-Letter  Word  -  Carl  Sandburg 
Award. 

1978,  And  You  Give  My  a  Pain,  Elaine  -  Society  of 
Midland  Authors  Award.  Golden  Kite  Award 
of  Society  of  Children’s  Bookwriters. 


1975,  A  Smart  Kid  Like  You  -  Dorothy  Canfield  Fisher 
Award  (Vermont). 

1973,  Call  Me  Heller,  That’ s  My  Name  -  Chicago 'Wo¬ 
men  In  Publishing  Award. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Me,  My  Goat,  and  My  Sister’s  Wedding,  Clarion/ 
Houghton  Mifflin,  1985. 

*  F  8  to  12 

Lindsay,  Lindsay,  Fly  Away  Home ,  Clarion/Houghton 
Mifflin,  1983. 

*  F  12  and  up 

I’ll  Always  Remember  You... Maybe,  Clarion/Hough¬ 
ton  Mifflin,  1981. 

*  F  12  and  up 

Cute  is  a  Four-Letter  Word,  Clarion/Houghton  Miff¬ 
lin,  1980. 

*  F  10  to  12 

And  You  Give  Me  a  Pain,  Elaine,  Clarion/Seabury, 
1978. 

*  F  8  and  up 

Keep  Stompin’  Till  the  Music  Stops,  Clarion/ 

Seabury,  1977. 

*  F  10  to  12 

A  Smart  Kid  Like  You,  Clarion/Seabury,  1975. 

*  F  8  and  up 

Call  Me  Heller,  That’s  My  Name,  Clarion/Seabury, 
1973. 

*  F  8  to  10 

Eootsteps  on  the  Stairs,  Crown,  1970. 

*  F  10  to  12 

Break  a  Leg!,  Crown,  1969. 

*  F  8  to  10 

The  Young  Brontes,  Baker  Play,  1968. 


RARE,  Berniece 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  January  1 1,  1928,  Parma,  Missouri.  Now  a  res¬ 
ident  of  Sleepy  Hollow,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

National  College  of  Education,  B.A. 

Northern  Illinois  University,  graduate  study. 
Roosevelt  University,  graduate  study. 


151 


OTHER: 

1982,  The  Balancing  Girl  -  ALA  Notable  Book. 

1978,  The  Orphans  -  Newbery  nomination;  Society  of 
Midland  Authors  Award. 

1977,  The  Girl  Who  Had  No  Name  -  Golden  Kite  A- 
ward  of  Society  of  Children’s  Book  Writers; 
Newbery  nomination;  Nomination,  Mark  Twain 
Award  (Missouri). 

1977,  Naomi  -  National  Society  of  Children’s  Book 
Writers,  honor  book.  Newbery  nomination. 
School  Library  Journal;  Best  of  the  Decade. 
Braille  edition.  Talking  books. 

1973,  Rass  -  Mark  Twain  Award  (Missouri),  third 
place.  Newbery  nomination.  School  Library 
Journal:  Best  of  the  Decade.  Braille  edition. 
Talking  books. 

Numerous  short  stories  for  children’s  magazines.  Ar¬ 
ticles  for  both  children  and  adults.  Text  tor 
World  Book,  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  and 
Science  Research  Associates. 

AUDIENCE; 

Children,  Teenage,  Adult  novel  in  progress. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Margaret's  Moves,  1986. 

F  11  to  14 

The  Balancing  Girl,  Dutton,  1982. 

F  6  to  8 

Who’ s  Afraid? ,  Dutton,  1978. 

F  12  and  up  (High  Interest,  Low  Vocabulary) 

The  Orphans,  Dutton,  1978. 

F  12  and  up 

The  Girl  Who  Had  No  Name,  Dutton,  1977. 

F  12  and  up 

Naomi,  Thomas  Nelson,  1975. 

F  12  and  up 

Rass,  Thomas  Nelson,  1973. 

F  12  and  up 

Can  They  See  Me?,  Western  Publishing,  Whitman 
Division. 

F  Pre 

Two  Peas  in  a  Pod,  Western  Publishing,  Whitman 
Division. 

F  Pre 

ROBBINS,  Shellie  Keir 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  February  22,  1946,  Rock  Island,  Illinois.  Now  a 
resident  of  Evanston,  Illinois. 


EDUCATION: 

University  of  Wisconsin,  B.A.,  (History  and  Litera¬ 
ture). 

DePauI  University  School  of  Music,  certification  to 
teach  Orff  Music  to  children. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

I 

Music  specialist,  teaching  primarily  in  nursery  schools,  ' 
and  the  Lake  Forest  Symphony. 

Children’s  performer  of  poetry  and  music  in  schools,  i 
libraries  and  cultural  centers. 

OTHER; 

Selected  for  residencies  at  Ragdale,  a  retreat  for  writers  | 
and  artists  to  do  creative  work. 

Poetry  selected  in  anthology  representing  the  best  of 
poems  in  literary  magazines. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Literary  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Which  Side  Up?,  CBH  Publishing,  1980. 

P  5  to  12 

ROBINET,  Harriette  Gillem 

BIOGRAPHY  j 

Bom  July  14,  1931,  Washington,  D.C.  Now'  a  resi-  i 
dent  of  Oak  Park,  Illinois.  ' 

i 

EDUCATION:  | 

College  of  New  Rochelle,  New  Rochelle.  N.Y.,  B.S.,  1 

1953.  ' 

Catholic  University  of  America,  Washington.  D  C., 
M.S..  1957;  Ph.D.,  1962. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Bacteriologist  -  10  years. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage,  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Josua,  Charity  and  the  Great  Chicago  Fire  of  1971, 
in  work  for  Children's  Press 

*  F  8  to  1 2 

Ride  the  Red  Cycle,  Houghton  Mifflin.  1980.  | 

*  F  8  to  1 2 

Jay  and  the  Marigold,  Children’s  Press,  1976. 

*  F  5  to  8 


152 


STALLMAN,  Birdie 


STORY,  Bettie  Wilson 


BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  April  16,  1915,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Self-educated. 

OTHER: 

Awards:  Eirst  prize,  article  writing  contest,  Chicago 
Daily  News.  Second  prize,  article  writing  con¬ 
test,  Chicago  Sun-Times. 

AUDIENCE:  All  ages. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Learning  About  Dragons,  Children’s  Press,  1982. 
NF  5  to  8 

Learning  About  Witches,  Children’s  Press,  1982. 

NF  5  to  8 

STANEK,  Muriel 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  in  Chicago,  Illinois.  Resident  of  Wilmette,  Il¬ 
linois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Chicago,  B.A.,  M.A.,  Ph.D. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Former  teacher  and  principal . 

AUDIENCE:  Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

We  Came  From  Vietnam,  Albert  Whitman,  1985. 

*  NF  8  to  10 

All  Alone  After  School,  Albert  Whitman,  1985. 

F  8  to  10 

Chicago,  the  City  and  Its  People,  Coronado,  1983. 

*  NF  8  to  10 

My  Little  Foster  Sister,  Albert  Whitman,  1981. 

F  5  to  8 

Starting  School,  Albert  Whitman,  1981. 

F  5  to  8 

Who’s  Afraid  of  the  Dark?,  Albert  Whitman,  1980. 
F  8  to  10 

Left  Right,  Left  Right,  Albert  Whitman,  1976. 

F  5  to  8 


BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  September4,  1933,  Skipperville,  Alabama.  Now 
a  resident  of  Bloomington,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Birmingham-Southern  College,  Birmingham,  Ala¬ 
bama,  (Phi  Beta  Kappa),  B.A. 

OTHER: 

1975-1976,  The  Other  Side  of  the  Tell  -  Indiana  Uni¬ 
versity  Foundation  Novel  Award.  Top  ten  of 
National  Religious  Children’s  Books  Best-sel¬ 
lers. 

Gospel  Trailblazer:  The  Exciting  Story  of  Francis 
Asbury  -  published  for  the  bicentennial  of  Amer¬ 
ican  Methodism. 

River  of  Fire  -  dramatized  for  radio,  national  distri¬ 
bution. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Gospel  Trailblazer:  The  Exciting  Story  of  Erancis 
Asbury,  Abingdon,  1984. 

NF  10  and  up 

Under  the  Eye  of  the  Blazing  Sun,  DavidC.  Cook,  1981. 

F  8  and  up 

River  of  Fire,  David  C.  Cook,  1978. 

F  10  and  up 

Summer  of  Jubilee,  David  C.  Cook,  1977. 

F  10  and  up 

The  Other  Side  of  the  Tell,  David  C.  Cook,  1976. 

F  8  to  12 


SUSSMAN,  Susan 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  April  22,  1942,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Evanston,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

University  of  Illinois,  Champaign,  B.A. 

OTHER: 

1 984,  Best  Childrens  Book  -  Jewish  Book  Council  fin¬ 
alist  for  There’ s  No  Such  Thing  as  a  Chanukah 
Bush,  Sandv  Goldstein. 


153 


SWKiER,  Elinor  Porter 


TOLLE,  Jean  Bashor 


BIOGRAPHY 

Born  August  1,  1927,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  Now  a  resi¬ 
dent  of  Glenview,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Ohio  State  University,  B.A. 

College  of  Law,  Ohio  State  University,  J.D. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Practice  of  Law,  Chicago  firm. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Casey  the  Nomad,  Albert  Whitman,  1985. 

F  8  to  10 

Don’ t  Say  Goodbye,  Dell,  1985. 

12  and  up 

There’s  No  Such  Thing  as  a  Chanukah  Bush,  Sandy 
Goldstein,  Albert  Whitman,  1983. 

*  F  5  to  10 

Hippo  Thunder,  Albert  Whitman,  1982. 

F  Pre 
OTHER: 

1973,  Jr.  Literary  Guild  selection  -  The  Law  &  You:  A 
Handbook  for  Young  People. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage,  General  Adult. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Women  Lawyers  at  Work,  Julian  Messner,  1978. 

NF  15  and  up 

The  Law  in  Your  Everyday  Life,  Prentice-Hall,  1978. 
NF  13  and  up 

Law  in  Everyday  Life,  McDongal-Lettell,  1977. 

NF 

Careers  in  the  Legal  Profession,  Franklin  Watts,  1977. 
NF  13  and  up 

The  Law  and  You:  A  Handbook  for  Young  People, 
Bobbs-Merrill,  1973,  revised  1975,  3d  Edition 
1980. 

NF  9  to  12 

Europe  for  Young  Travelers,  Bobbs-Merrill,  1972. 
NF  7  to  10 

Mexico  for  Kids,  Bobbs-Merrill,  1971. 

NF  7  to  10 


Bom  December  29,  1933,  Oakland,  California.  Now 
a  resident  of  Barrington,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Stanford  University,  B.A.  and  M.A.  (Education), 
1951-56. 

OTHER: 

1 980 — “Childrens  Choice,"  The  Reading  Teacher. 

AUDIENCE: 

I 

Children. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  Great  Pete  Penney,  Atheneum,  1979. 

*  E  8  to  12 

TURNER,  Glennette  Tilley 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  November  23,  1933,  Raleigh,  North  Carolina. 
Now  a  resident  of  Wheaton,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Goddard/Field,  M.  A. ,  ( History'  and  Juvenile  Literature). 

Lake  Forest  College,  B.A.  (English),  1955. 

Fifty-plus  hours  in  professional  and  personal  growth 
courses  at  NIU,  DuSable  Museum  of  Afro-  | 
American  History,  National  College  of  Educa¬ 
tion,  Lewis  University,  Northeastern  Univer¬ 
sity. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

1968-present,  District  200,  teacher,  second  grade  and 
primary  gifted. 

1978,  National  College  of  Education,  Instructor. 
“Methods  and  Materials  for  Teaching  about  ,  i 
Minority  Groups.” 

1961-1966,  Chicago  Board  of  Education,  District89. 

In  addition  to  teaching,  work  has  included  authorship  j 
of  student  and  teacher  materials  for  Ginn  and  I 
Company,  child-parent  workshops  sponsored  by  ! 
the  Judy  Blume  KIDS  Foundation,  in-service  i 
teacher  workshops. 

Current  monthly  column  in  Ebony,  Jr. 

Text,  language  kits  for  SRA  and  Encyclopaedia  Bri- 
tannica. 

OTHER: 

AAUW  Educational  Foundation  Grant  to  conduct  vid¬ 
eotaped  interviews  with  last  of  Harriet  Tubman's 


154 


relatives,  first-hand  memories  of  the  Under¬ 
ground  Railroad. 

1984,  Award  by  West  Suburban  YWCA,  Outstanding 
Woman  Educator  in  DuPage  County. 

1984-1985,  President,  Children’s  Reading  Round 
Table,  Chicago. 

Honors  by  National  Assoc,  of  Media  Women,  ILA, 
Children’s  Reading  Round  Table,  and  National 
Council  for  the  Teachers  of  English. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children,  Teenage. 

IBLIOGRAPHY 

Underground  Railroad  in  Illinois,  1986. 

NF  12  and  up 

Make  and  Keep  Family  Memories,  Newman  Educa¬ 
tional  Publishing  Co.,  1983. 

NF 

Gram  Remembers,  Open  Court  Reading  Series,  1 979. 

Underground  Railroad  in  DuPage  County,  Illinois, 
Newman,  1978. 

*  NF  12  and  up 

My  Own  Self  s  Book,  D  and  S  Press,  1978. 

NF  8  to  10 

Surprise  for  Mrs.  Burns,  Albert  Whitman,  1971. 

WARSHAW,  Jerry 

JIOGRAPHY 

Bom  June  12,  1929,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Now  a  resident 
of  Evanston,  Illinois. 

EDUCATION: 

Chicago  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

Art  Institute  of  Chicago. 

Institute  of  Design. 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Illustrator  -  works  in  many  fields:  trade  books,  maga¬ 
zines,  greeting  cards,  text  books,  films,  etc. 

AUDIENCE: 

Children. 

SIBLIOGRAPHY 

The  I  Can’t  Draw  Book,  (Author-Illustrator),  Albert 
Whitman,  1971. 

NF  All  ages 

The  Funny  Drawing  Book,  (Author-Illustrator), 
Albert  Whitman,  1976. 

NF  All  ages 


Draw  Yourself  aZoo,  (Author-Illustrator),  Scholastic, 
1979. 

NF  All  ages 

WHITNEY,  Phyllis  A. 

BIOGRAPHY 

Bom  September  9,  1903,  in  Yokohama,  Japan  of 
American  parents.  Resident  of  Brookhaven, 
New  York.  Lived  in  Chicago  for  twenty-seven 
years.  First  seven  books  published  during  resi¬ 
dency  in  Chicago. 

EDUCATION: 

Elementary  School:  Texas,  California,  Japan,  Chica¬ 
go,  Philippines. 

High  School:  McKinley  High  School,  Chicago. 

“Main  education  working  in  book  department  of  Davis 
Store,  Chicago,  and  in  Womrath’s  Library.” 

WORK  IN  ADDITION  TO  WRITING: 

Editor,  Chicago  Sun,  several  years. 

OTHER: 

Sold  first  short  story  to  Chicago  Daily  News. 

Presently  writing  68th  book. 

1983,  Woman  of  the  Year  Award,  Council  of  Cerebral 
Palsy  Auxiliaries  of  Nassau  County,  for  Litera¬ 
ture  category. 

1960,  1963,  Mystery  of  the  Haunted  Pool,  Mystery 
Writers  of  America  “Edgar.”  Sequoyah  Award 
(Oklahoma). 

1964,  Secret  of  the  Emerald  Star,  Best  Juvenile 
Mysteries. 

AUDIENCE: 

Formerly  early  teens.  Currently  from  12  to  90. 

Also,  books  and  articles  for  writers. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY  (Partial  listing) 

Dream  of  Orchids,  Doubleday,  1985. 

F 

Rainsong,  Doubleday,  1985. 

F 

Emerald,  Doubleday,  1983. 

F 

Vermilion,  Doubleday,  1982. 

F 

Guide  to  Eiction  Writing,  The  Writer. 

NF 

Secret  of  the  Emerald  Star,  1964. 

F  12  and  up 

Mystery  of  the  Haunted  Pool,  I960. 

E  12  and  up 


155 


