i 

i 

> 


■^-^v 


%  ^ 


^.^^ 

r 

M: 

1 

L«ew^    if 

k, 

\^.M 

^ 

fi 

! 

K?1 

'i^m 

*      ~l^ 

fel 

B^^ 

1 

' 

/-      ui 

.V9'  ( ^-aa 

'S'-   flbS 

i^'^^  1 

ri 

\ril 

p;  »^ 


«i 


ii^ 


.) 


t 


l,-%-  I    ■•,.1111 


l^y/r/" 


'^ 

^.    .^^      = 

^ 

*.^^ 

^\\\::-.:\'i 

'Mi 

^ 

?/ 

L 

9 

?li 

Jk 

/ 


\^' 


Cover 


A&T 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

27 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 

50 

51 

52 

53 

54 

55 

56 

57 

58 

59 

60 

61 

62 

63 

64 

1  Robert  Anderson,  North  American  Rockweri 

2  Roy  L.  Ash,  Linon  Industries 

3  Larry  Bell  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

4  John  Brooks,  LearSiegler,  Inc. 

5  James  Byars  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

6  Jerrold  Canter,  Universal  Television  Company  (photo  Bill  Brothers) 

7  John  Chamberlain  (photo  William  Crutchfield) 

8  Otis  Chandler,  Times  Mirror  Foundation  (photo  John  Engstead) 

9  William  Crutchfield  (photo  Barbara  Crutchfield) 

10  Justin  Dart,  Dart  Industries 

1 1  Dr.  Richard  D.  DeLauer,  TRW  Systems 

12  Jean  Dubuffet  (photo  Luc  Joubert,  courtesy  Pace  Gallery) 

13  Jean  Dupuy 

14  W.  D.  Eberle,  American  Standard 

15  Frederick  Eversley 

16  Oyvind  Fahlstrom  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

17  Alfred  Fenaughty,  Information  International 

18  Sam  Francis 

19  Stanley  Grinstein,  Mifran-Bovwman 

20  Najeeb  Halaby,  Pan  American  World  Airways 

21  Robert  M.  Halt,  Hall  Inc.  Surgical  Systems  (photo  Roger  M.  Short) 

22  Newton  Harrison  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

23  Wayne  Heath,  Heath  and  Company 

24  William  R.  Hewlett,  Hewlett-Packard 

25  Robert  Irwin  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

26  Herman  Kahn,  Hudson  Institute 

27  Edgar  F.  Kaiser,  Kaiser  Steel  Corporation 

28  R.  B.  Kitaj 

29  Burt  Kleiner,  Kleiner,  Bell  Foundation  (photo  Gene  Daniels) 

30  A.  C.  Kotchian,  Lockheed  Aircraft  Corporation 

31  Rockne  Krebs  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

32  John  B.  Lawson,  Philco-Ford  Corporation 

33  Wesley  Duke  Lee  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

34  Roy  Lichtenstein  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

35  Louis  B.  Lundborg,  Bank  of  America 

36  Jackson  MacLow  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

37  C.  E.  McKittrick,  Jr.,  IBM  (photo  Leigh  Weiner) 

38  Boyd  Mefferd  (photo  William  Crutchfield) 

39  J.  Irwin  Miller,  Cummins  Engine  Company 

40  K.  T.  Norris,  Jr.,  Norris  Industries 

41  Claes  Oldenburg  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

42  Jules  Olitski  (photo  Eric  Pollitzer) 

43  Milan  Panic,  International  Chemical  and  Nuclear  Corporation 

44  Eduardo  Paolozzi  (photo  William  Crutchfield) 

45  William  Pascoe,  IH,  American  Cement 

46  Dr.  W.  H.  Pickering,  Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory 

47  Jeff  Raskin 

48  Robert  Rauschenberg  (photo  courtesy  Gemini  G.E.L.) 

49  Jesse  Reichek  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

50  Dr.  George  A.  Roberts,  Teledyne,  Inc. 

51  William  E.  Roberts,  Ampex  Corporation 

52  Henry  S.  Rowen,  The  Rand  Corporation  (photo  Leigh  Weiner) 

53  Roben  Sarnoff ,  RCA 

54  Richard  Serra  (photo  &  courtesy  Pasadena  Art  Museum) 

55  Tony  Smith  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

56  James  Turrell  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

57  Kenneth  Tyler,  Gemini  G.E.L. 

58  H.  J.  Van  der  Eb,  Container  Corporation  of  America  (photo  Fabian  Bachrach) 

59  Andy  Warhol  (photo  William  Crutchfield) 

60  Lew  R.  Wasserman,  Universal  Film  Studios 

61  Harry  Wetzel,  The  Garrett  Corporation 

62  Marvin  C.  Whatmore,  Cowles  Communications,  Inc.  (photo  Arnold  Newman) 

63  Robert  Whitman  (photo  Malcolm  Lubliner) 

64  Richard  Zanuck,  Twentieth  Century  Fox  Film  Corporation 


Copyright  ®  197  I  by  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art 
Library  of  Congress  Catalog  Card  Number:  74-146884 
SBN:  87587-044-9 


A  Report 

on  the  Art  and  Technology  Program 

of  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art 


1967-1971 


Contents:  A&T 


7  Acknowledgments 

9  Introduction:  Maurice  Tuchman 

43  Thoughts  on  Art  and  Technology:  Jane  Livingston 

49  Participating  Artists 

361  Participating  Corporations 


Acknowledgments 


A&T 


The  Museum's  Contemporary  Art  Council  has  sponsored 
and  supported /4rt  amy  Technology  from  its  inception  in 
late  1966  to  the  present  time.  I  am  grateful  to  this 
devoted  group,  and  particularly  to  its  Chairmen  during 
the  five-year  development  of  the  program— Harry  Sher- 
wood, Dr.  Judd  iVlarmor  and  Mrs.  Joann  Phillips. 

Mrs.  Otis  Chandler  was  the  primary  figure  responsible 
for  corporation  involvement.  She  worked  indefatigably 
with  me  to  obtain  company  support  for  almost  three 
years. 

David  Antin,  Director  of  the  Art  Gallery,  University  of 
California,  San  Diego,  was  commissioned  by  Viking  Press 
in  January,  1968  to  write  a  book  about  the  A&T 
program.  He  was  an  important  source  of  information 
about  technical  matters  as  well  as  artistic  concerns. 

Dr.  Richard  Feynman,  Tolman  Professor  of  Theoretical 
Physics,  California  Institute  of  Technology,  served  as 
Consultant  to  A  &  T.  Dr.  Feynman  met  most  of  the 
artists  involved  in  the  more  esoteric  areas  of  corporation 
technology  and  acted  as  translator  and  guide.  He  was 
available  to  artists  who  needed  him. 

Nina  Kaiden  Wright,  Director  of  Fine  Arts  at  Ruder  and 
Finn,  Inc.,  also  served  as  Consultant  to  A  &  T,  and, 
among  other  suggestions,  helped  enlist  the  Hudson 
Institute  as  a  Sponsor  Corporation. 

In  the  course  of  developing  this  program  many  individuals 
made  helpful  suggestions.  I  want  particularly  to  thank 
Clinton  Adams,  Michael  Blankfort,  Paul  Brach,  Sidney  F. 
Brody,  Eugenia  Butler,  James  Butler,  Leo  Castelli, 
Elizabeth  Coffelt,  Dorothe  Curtis,  Louis  Danziger, 
L.  Claridge  Davis,  Henry  Dreyfuss,  Monte  Factor, 
Edward  Fry,  Ken  Glen,  Henry  Hopkins,  Malcolm 
Levinthal,  Dr.  Franklin  Murphy,  Jerald  Ordover,  Tal- 
madge  Reed,  Jasia  Reichardt,  Pierre  Restany,  George 
Rickey,  Barbara  Rose,  Dr.  Daniel  Rosenthal,  Richard 
Sherwood,  Fred  Usher,  Jan  van  der  Marck,  and  Robert 
Weinstein. 

Malcolm  Lubliner  was  commissioned  to  record  photo- 
graphically the  encounters  between  artists  and 
corporations. 


In  organizing  the  preview  exhibition  of  eight  artists' 
work  from  the  A&T  program  for  the  United  States 
Pavilion  at  Expo  70,  I  worked  closely  with  Jack  Masey, 
Deputy  Commissioner  General,  Patricia  Ezell,  Exhibits 
Project  Officer,  and  Designer  Ray  Komai.  In  Los 
Angeles,  New  York  and  Osaka,  Japan  there  were  con- 
tinual meetings  with  the  designers  of  the  Expo  Exhibi- 
tion Design  Team,  Davis,  Brody,  Chermayeff,  Geismar, 
de  Harak,  Associates.  Designers  David  Sutton,  Yasuo 
Uesaka,  Gary  Jacquemin  and  Tom  Kuboda  were  also  at 
the  site  and  involved  in  the  installation  of  that 
exhibition. 

Eric  Saarinen  &  Associates  were  commissioned  by  us  and 
Container  Corporation  of  America  to  make  a  film  on  the 
exhibition  at  Expo  70.  The  film  will  be  presented  during 
the  period  of  the  Museum  exhibition.  In  the  sections  in 
this  book  on  the  eight  Expo  artists— Newton  Harrison, 
Rockne  Krebs,  Roy  Lichtenstein,  Boyd  Mefferd,  Claes 
Oldenburg,  Tony  Smith,  Andy  Warhol,  Robert  Whit- 
man—all quotations,  unless  otherwise  noted,  are  from 
tapes  made  by  Howard  Chesley  of  Eric  Saarinen  & 
Associates  throughout  1970. 

James  Kenion,  Art  Transportation  Coordinator,  was  at 
the  Osaka  site  with  me  for  the  three  month  installation 
of  the  "New  Arts"  exhibition  in  the  U.S.  Pavilion.  Cecil 
Fergerson,  Museum  Assistant  II,  assisted  him  in  Japan  in 
dismantling  the  show  when  Expo  closed.  Kenion,  Ferger- 
son and  Head  of  Technical  Services  James  Allen  will  be 
in  charge  of  the  Museum  installation,  along  with  Elliott 
Hutchinson,  Head  of  Construction  and  Maintenance,  and 
his  Assistant  Roy  Ingalls.  The  staffs  in  these  sections  will 
be  called  on  in  unprecedented  ways.  Ben  Johnson, 
Conservator,  will  supervise  the  operational  aspects  of  the 
works. 

My  secretary  Florence  Hairston  worked  on  A  &  T  from 
its  inception  in  1966.  In  typing  manuscripts  throughout 
this  time  she  was  assisted  by  Barbara  McQuaide  and 
Diane  Turner.  In  preparing  this  Report,  the  manuscript 
was  read  by  William  Osmun,  Senior  Curator,  Jeanne 
Doyle,  Coordinator  of  Exhibitions  and  Publications,  and 
Joanne  Jaffe,  Publications  Associate.  The  writer  Frederic 
Tuten  also  read  the  manuscript  and  made  helpful  com- 
ments. 


William  Crutchfield  was  commissioned  to  interpret 
graphically  the  more  significant  interactions— his  draw- 
ings appear  throughout  the  introduction  to  this  Report. 

James  Lowery  wrote  the  descriptions  of  participating 
corporations  in  the  final  section  of  this  book.  Manny 
Silverman  and  Jerry  Solomon  of  Art  Services,  Inc., 
rendered  many  gratuities  to  visiting  artists  in  the  course 
of  the  program. 


In  planning  the  exhibition  for  the  Museum,  I  benefited 
from  the  expertise  of  Lawrence  Morton,  Curator  of 
Music,  and  Robert  Raitch,  Audio-Visual  Coordinator, 
Educational  Services.  Vincent  Robbins,  Head  Graphic 
Artist,  rendered  diagrams  of  artists  Rockne  Krebs  and 
Newton  Harrison.  A  volunteer  worker,  Mrs.  Grace 
Spencer,  helped  in  research  and  in  maintaining  the 
voluminous  records  on  the  project. 

At  our  request,  hospitality  was  generously  offered  to 


visiting  artists  in  Los  Angeles  by  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Leonard 
Asher,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  Butler,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Monte 
Factor,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stanley  Grinstein,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Melville  Kolliner  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Kenneth  Tyler.  In 
New  York,  London  and  Paris  several  individuals  gra- 
ciously allowed  us  the  use  of  their  homes  for  receptions 
and  meetings  with  artists:  Mme.  Celine  Chalem,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Ivan  Chermayeff,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Copley, 
Henry  Hecht,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frank  Lloyd  and  Nina 
Kaiden  Wright.  In  Paris,  Jean-Franqois  Jaeger,  Director 
of  the  Galerie  Jeanne  Bucher,  and  Denise  Rene'  were  also 
helpful  in  arranging  meetings. 

James  Monte  and  Hal  Glicksman,  both  former  Assistant 
Curators  of  Modern  Art,  each  worked  on  A  &  T  for 
approximately  a  year.  Irena  Shapira  served  as  Coordina- 
tor of  A  &  T  in  its  early  stages  and  until  January,  1969. 
The  planning  and  execution  of  A  &  T,  and  the  extensive 
documentation  of  the  program  in  this  book,  is  the  result 
of  close  and  continual  interaction  over  the  past  three 
years  between  myself  and  Associate  Curator  Jane 
Livingston,  Assistant  Curator  Gail  Scott  and  Special 
Assistant  Betty  Asher.  It  has  been  a  pleasure  for  me  to 
work  with  them.  Each  of  us  is  responsible  for  the 
accounts  of  artists'  involvement  in  part  3  of  this 
book,  which  was  finished  in  November,  1970,  but  the 
primary  drafting  of  narratives  on  James  Byars,  John 
Chamberlain,  Jean  Dupuy,  Oyvind  Fahlstrom,  Irwin- 
Turrell,  Rockne  Krebs,  Jackson  MacLow,  Tony  Smith, 
Andy  Warhol  and  Jesse  Reichek  is  by  Jane  Livingston; 
the  accounts  of  Newton  Harrison,  R.  B.  Kitaj,  Roy 
Lichtenstein,  Boyd  Mefferd,  Robert  Morris,  Robert 
Rauschenberg,  Richard  Serra  and  Robert  Whitman  are 
by  Gail  Scott;  and  Betty  Asher  selected  and  collated 
most  of  the  photographs  and  other  materials  on  artists. 

Maurice  Tuchman 
Senior  Curator,  Modern  Art 
Director,  Art  &  Technology 


Introduction 

Maurice  Tucliman 


A&T 


In  1966,  wlien  Art  and  Technology  was  first  conceived,  I 
had  been  living  in  Southern  California  for  two  years.  A 
newcomer  to  this  region  is  particularly  sensitive  to  the 
futuristic  character  of  Los  Angeles,  especially  as  it  is 
manifested  in  advanced  technology.  I  thought  of  the 
typical  Coastal  industries  as  chiefly  aerospace  oriented 
(Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory,  Lockheed  Aircraft);  or 
geared  toward  scientific  research  (The  Rand  Corpora- 
tion, TRW  Systems);  or  connected  with  the  vast  cinema 
and  TV  industry  in  Southern  California  (Universal  Film 
Studios).  At  a  certain  point— it  is  difficult  to  reconstruct 
the  precise  way  in  which  this  notion  finally  emerged 
consciously— I  became  intrigued  by  the  thought  of 
having  artists  brought  into  these  industries  to  make 
works  of  art,  moving  about  in  them  as  they  might  in 
their  own  studios.  In  the  beginning,  as  I  was  considering 
this  idea  as  just  an  abstract  concept,  I  had  few  concrete 
visions  of  what  might  actually  result  from  such  ex- 
changes. Indeed  I  was  not  certain  whether  artists  of 
calibre  would  desire  such  involvement  with  industry. 
And  if  they  did,  and  an  organized  program  could  be 
instituted  to  give  them  such  opportunities,  I  had  no  idea 
how  to  go  about  persuading  corporations  to  receive 
artists  into  their  facilities— nor  for  that  matter,  why  they 
should  want  to. 

In  reviewing  modern  art  history,  one  is  easily  convinced 
of  the  gathering  esthetic  urge  to  realize  such  an  enter- 
prise as  I  was  envisioning.  A  collective  will  to  gain  access 
to  modern  industry  underlies  the  programs  of  the  Italian 
Futurists,  Russian  Constructivists,  and  many  of  the 
German  Bauhaus  artists.  Within  these  movements,  no 
intensive  effort  was  made  directly  to  approach  industrial 
firms  in  order  to  harness  corporate  machinery  or  tech- 
nology, or  systematically  to  expose  artists  to  their  re- 
search capabilities.  Still,  the  impulse  to  do  this  is  well 
documented.  A  need  to  reform  commercial  industrial 
products,  to  create  public  monuments  for  a  new  society, 
to  express  fresh  artistic  ideas  with  the  materials  that 
only  industry  could  provide— such  were  the  concerns  of 
these  schools  of  artists,  and  they  were  announced  in 
words  and  in  works. 

During  late  '66  and  early  '67,  I  began  studying  the 
nature  and  location  of  corporate  resources  in  California. 
In  November,  1967,  I  went  to  the  Museum's  Board  of 
Trustees,  members  of  which  were  significantly  involved 
with  over  two  dozen  West  Coast  companies,  to  outline 
my  proposal  and  to  elicit  advice  and  support.  As  individ- 
ual entrepeneurs,  the  Board  members  were  rather  indif- 
ferent to  the  experiment,  and  as  Trustees  they  resisted 
having  the  Museum  commit  itself,  and  me,  to  such  an 
undertaking.  The  proposal  appeared  to  them  too  vague 
and  open-ended,  and  the  budget  almost  impossible  to 
predict.  I  argued  that  I  would  raise  personally  the  great 
majority  of  funds  to  get  the  project  underway,  and  that 
if  I  failed  to  do  this,  we  would  then  simply  drop  the 


scheme  before  it  was  made  public,  avoiding  any  embar- 
rassment or  significant  financial  loss  to  the  institution. 
Other  than  on  a  practical  level,  I  maintained  that  this 
project  was  a  proper  undertaking  for  a  Museum,  and 
represented  an  opportunity  to  play  an  innovative  role.  It 
would  draw  attention  to  the  acknowledged  need  in  the 
U.  S.  for  institutions  responsive  to  the  interests  of 
society— in  this  case,  the  interests  of  artists,  and  perhaps 
even  businessmen.  The  Board  gave  me  tacit  consent  to 
go  ahead  and  study  the  possibilities,  with  the  program 
still  subject  to  their  approval. 

I  prepared  a  case  with  which  to  solicit  corporation  in- 
volvement, centered  on  three  main  lines  of  approach 
which  I  calculated  to  be  of  interest  to  the  business  com- 
munity. I  argued  that  corporate  donations  to  the  arts, 
which  were  infinitesimal  compared  to  support  of  medi- 
cal and  educational  facilities,  should  be  enlarged.  This 
would  benefit  them,  as  much  as  the  recipient  museums, 
operas,  theatres,  etc.,  since  businesses  benefit  from  prox- 
imity to  thriving  cultural  resources  in  attracting  talented 
personnel.  I  also  pointed  out  that  the  companies'  collab- 
orations with  artists  might  well  result  in  major  works  of 
art,  and  I  decided  that  one  work  of  art  made  with  any 
significantly  cooperative  corporation  should  be  offered 
to  that  corporation.  (It  became  clear  very  early  that  a 
high  proportion  of  the  companies  would  view  this  pos- 
sibility as  a  salient  motive  for  collaboration.)  Most  im- 
portantly, I  argued  that  companies  might  benefit  im- 
measurably, in  both  direct  and  subtle  ways,  merely  from 
exposure  to  creative  personalities. 

These  arguments  may  have  been  substantive,  but  there 
remained  the  problem  of  presenting  them  to  the  right 
people.  I  had  drawn  up  lists  of  corporations  I  felt  should 
be  solicited,  but  it  was  difficult  to  obtain  appointments 
with  their  presidents.  (I  realized  then  that  it  would  be 
fruitless  to  see  public  relations  people,  or  anyone  other 
than  the  man  at  the  top  who  could  sign  the  check  and 
delegate  authority.)  In  spite  of  the  aegis  of  the  Los 
Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art,  it  would  typically  take 
six  phone  calls  and  two  letters,  over  a  period  of  six 
months,  to  effect  a  meeting,  and  even  with  such  protrac- 
ted efforts  few  interviews  were  arranged.  When  I  did  get 
past  the  front  door,  the  response  from  corporation 
executives  was  usually  encouraging,  but  the  overall  rate 
of  progress  was  much  too  slow. 

In  June,  1967,  an  article  in  the  Los  Angeles  Times 
mentioned  my  plan  to  "bring  together  the  incredible 
resources  and  advanced  technology  of  industry  with  the 
equally  incredible  imagination  and  talent  of  the  best 
artists  at  work  today."  Mrs.  Otis  Chandler,  wife  of  the 
Times'  publisher,  was  intrigued  with  the  story  and 
telephoned  me  about  it.  I  asked  Missy  Chandler  for  her 
assistance  in  arranging  appointments  with  corporation 
executives.  She  asked  whether  the  Museum's  Board  was 


10 


not  the  appropriate  vehicle  for  this  operation.  Informed 
that  no  Trustee  had  shown  much  interest  in  participa- 
tion when  I  had  presented  the  Board  with  my  idea,  she 
agreed  to  help.  Mrs.  Chandler's  intervention  proved 
immediately  effective.  She  became  primarily  responsible 
for  the  involvement  of  over  a  dozen  corporations  in  the 
now  accelerated  program. 


contracts  with  each  participating  company,  as  it  was  to 
have  identical  contractual  agreements  with  the  artists. 
We  naturally  wanted  to  avoid  setting  any  advance 
financial  limits  on  collaborations.  Obviously  a  key 
motive  in  the  program  was  to  allow  the  chance  of  one  or 
both  parties  being  stimulated  to  extend  their  commit- 
ment out  of  sheer  enthusiasm. 


In  late  1967,  we  began  the  process  of  contacting  over 
250  companies,  of  which  eventually  thirty-seven  joined 
the  program  in  various  ways.  As  encounters  with  corpor- 
ation executives  took  place,  the  logistical  guidelines  and 
the  scope  of  the  program  were  gradually  clarified.  I  soon 
realized  that,  for  practical  reasons,  the  program  would 
have  to  be  limited  to  companies  located  in  the  state  of 
California.  (Much  later,  we  were  able  financially  to 
extend  outside  the  state,  and  companies  located  in 
Indiana,  Illinois,  Ohio,  and  New  York  State  joined  Art 
and  Technology.)  We  could  not,  in  the  beginning,  know 
how  much  money  a  company  might  donate  to  the 
Museum's  general  fund  on  Art  and  Technology,  before 
an  artist  took  up  residence.  We  discussed  various  figures 
from  three  to  fifteen  thousand,  before  settling  on 
$7,000  as  the  amount  we  would  request  as  each  corpora- 
tion's initial  financial  obligation.  This  somehow  emerged 
as  the  optimal  sum,  beyond  which  very  few  companies 
would  commit.  Later,  we  learned  that  many  corpora- 
tions calculated  their  pledge  in  a  ratio  of  two  to  one:  the 
$7,000  donation  to  the  Museum  suggested  to  them  an 
expenditure  of  $14,000  to  the  artist.  There  was  also  the 
question  of  how  long  the  companies  would  agree  to  have 
artists  in  their  facilities.  We  realized  that  most  com- 
panies, before  signing  a  contract,  would  want  an  escape 
clause  in  writing  to  which  they  could  refer  should  they 
desire  early  termination  of  the  project.  It  would  have 
been  preferable  to  keep  this  open,  allowing  the  artist  and 
company  to  themselves  decide  when  to  end  the  relation- 
ship. Unfortunately  we  were  forced  to  see  that  no 
company  would  initially  agree  to  have  an  artist  in 
residence  for  longer  than  three  months.  Many  execu- 
tives, however,  indicated  that  if  the  collaboration  devel- 
oped interestingly,  they  would  allow  it  to  continue 
naturally.  In  fact,  when  the  artist  wanted  to  extend  his 
residence  he  was  able  to  do  so.  Still  there  was  an  in- 
trinsic sense  of  limitation  suggested  to  certain  artists  by 
the  expectation  of  a  three  month  project.  Anticipating  a 
restricted  time  span,  some  artists  undoubtedly  inhibited 
the  scope  of  their  esthetic  conceptions. 

Yet  another  factor  needed  clarification  before  we  could 
outline  the  terms  of  company  obligations.  Many  execu- 
tives wanted  to  know  rather  precisely  how  much  fi- 
nancial support  and  staff  time  would  be  expected  from 
them  after  an  artist  came  to  work.  But  it  would  have 
been  impossible  to  estimate  budgets  from  companies  as 
diverse  as,  for  example.  Rand  and  Lockheed  or  JPL  and 
Kaiser  Steel.  And  it  was  imperative  to  have  identical 


Few  corporations  questioned  our  total  right  to  select 
artists  for  them.  It  should  be  noted  that  corporations 
had  the  option  to  "approve"  the  artist  before  he  took  up 
residence:  such  approval  is  of  course  implicit,  but  by 
making  it  explicit  a  certain  degree  of  company  wariness 
was  eliminated. 

In  April,  1968,  I  met  with  the  Board  of  Trustees  for  the 
second  time  to  deliver  a  progress  report.  I  anticipated 
that  we  could  enlist  the  financial  support  of  at  least 
twenty  corporations,  to  the  amount  of  $140,000  as  a 
straight  donation  to  the  Museum  for  use  as  needed  in 
operating  the  program— to  cover  artists'  payments, 
transportation  and  installation  costs.  According  to  my 
prospectus  these  twenty  companies  additionally  would 
each  take  an  artist  into  residence.  I  requested  $70,000 
from  the  Museum  as  its  share  in  supporting  Art  and 
Technology  for  the  1968-69  fiscal  year.  (Perhaps  uncon- 
sciously, I  had  adopted  the  businessman's  strategy— but 
in  reverse  ratio.)  The  Board  sanctioned  the  plan,  pro- 
vided that  I  obtain  written  agreements  from  ten  corpora- 
tions before  announcing  the  program  officially.  I  drew 
up  a  contract  which  took  into  account  three  different 
kinds  of  corporation  participation.  I  knew  that  certain 
companies  would  be  eager  to  have  an  artist  in  residence, 
but  for  various  reasons,  often  having  to  do  with  anticipa- 
ted stockholder  reaction,  would  elect  not  to  write  a 
check  to  the  Museum.  Other  companies  would  financial- 
ly support  the  program  and  might  desire  collaboration, 
but  an  artistic  use  of  their  facilities  was  technically 
unlikely.  We  established  categories  of  corporate  involve- 
ment: Patron  Sponsor  Corporations,  who  would  agree  to 
take  an  artist  into  residence,  and  also  donate  $7,000  to 
the  Museum;  Sponsor  Corporations,  who  would  take  an 
artist  into  residence  but  who  donate  less  than  $7,000  or 
nothing  at  all;  Benefactor  Corporations,  asked  to  simply 
donate  at  least  $7,000  to  the  Museum;  and  Contributing 
Sponsor  Corporations,  who  would  donate  only  services, 
or  less  than  $7,000.  Patron  Sponsors  had  the  "option  to 
receive  one  principal  work  of  art  resulting  from  the 
collaboration";  the  other  categories  of  corporations  did 
not  have  this  option.  See  Appendix  I,  p.  31,  for  the 
complete  text  of  the  Patron  Sponsor  contract,  which 
differs  from  the  others  only  in  regard  to  the  factors  just 
noted. 


11 


A&T 


A  brochure  was  drafted  and  printed  at  this  time  for 

corporation  executives: 

Art  and  Technology  is  the  worl<ing  title*  of  a  major 
project  now  being  planned  at  the  Los  Angeles  County 
Museum  of  Art.  The  purpose  of  this  enterprise  is  to 
place  approximately  twenty  important  artists  "in 
residence"  for  up  to  a  twelve  week  period  within 
leading  technological  and  industrial  corporations  in 
California.  Works  of  art  resulting  from  these  coopera- 
tive endeavors  will  be  exhibited  at  the  Museum  in  the 
Spring  of  1970. 

International  developments  in  art  have  provided  the 
impetus  for  this  project:  much  of  the  most  compel- 
ling art  since  1910  has  depended  upon  the  materials 
and  processes  of  technology,  and  has  increasingly 
assimilated  scientific  and  industrial  advances.  Never- 
theless, only  in  isolated  circumstances  have  artists 
been  able  to  carry  out  their  ideas  or  even  initiate 
projects  due  to  the  lack  of  an  operative  relationship 
with  corporate  facilities.  Our  objective  now  is  to 
provide  the  necessary  meeting  ground  for  some 
eminent  contemporary  artists  with  sophisticated 
technological  personnel  and  resources.  Naturally  we 
hope  that  this  endeavor  will  result  not  only  in  signifi- 
cant works  of  art  but  in  an  ongoing  union  between 
the  two  forces.  It  is  our  conviction  that  the  need  for 
this  alliance  is  one  of  the  most  pressing  esthetic  issues 
of  our  time. 


corporation's  contribution. 

Corporations  are  asked  to  participate  in  one  of  five 
categories: 

1 .  A  Patron  Sponsor  Corporation  takes  an  artist  into 
twelve-week  residence  within  one  of  its  corporate 
facilities  to  work  in  a  specific  area  with  the  cor- 
poration's personnel  and  materials.  A  Patron 
Sponsor  Corporation  also  contributes  $7,000  to 
the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art  to  help 
defray  the  extraordinary  expenses  of  the  project. 
As  noted  above.  Patron  Sponsor  Corporations 
have  the  option  to  receive  a  work  of  art  issuing 
from  the  collaboration. 

2.  A  Sponsor  Corporation  is  a  manufacturer  who 
arranges  to  have  an  artist  work  within  its  plant, 
using  specified  personnel  and  materials,  but  makes 
a  smaller  contribution  to  the  Museum's  special 
fund  for  the  project. 

3.  Contributing  Sponsors  donate  materials  and/or 
services  to  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art 
for  this  project  but  do  not  take  an  artist  into 
residence. 

4.  Service  Corporations  provide  specialized  services 
such  as  transportation,  housing  facilities  for 
visiting  artists  and  technical  consultation. 


During  the  past  six  months,  we  have  made  numerous 
preliminary  contacts  with  corporation  presidents  in 
California.  These  discussions  have  served  to  corrobor- 
ate our  feeling  that  the  advantages  to  participating 
corporate  concerns  are  manifold.  Since  the  project 
will  be  fully  documented  by  CBS  television  for  a 
network  special,  as  well  as  being  systematically 
publicized  through  other  media,  promotional  benefits 
to  industries  can  be  considerable.  It  is  expected  that 
collaborating  technical  personnel  may  gain  experience 
directly  valuable  to  the  corporation,  as  indeed  has 
already  occurred  in  the  plastics  industry.  All  ex- 
penses, including  corporation  staff  time  and  ma- 
terials, are  tax  deductible;  in  addition.  Patron  Spon- 
sors will  have  the  option  to  receive  a  work  of  art 
issuing  from  this  collaboration.  In  many  cases,  the  art 
works  will  exceed  in  value  the  total  expense  of  the 

*The  reader  will  note  reference  to  "Art  and  Technology"  as  a 
"working  title."  This  nomenclature  was  never  comfortably 
accepted  by  us.  Years  later,  after  lists  of  other  titles  were  drawn 
up  and  discarded,  we  could  not  improve  on  Art  and  Technology. 
Terms  like  "synergy"  and  "interface"  were  considered,  but 
abandoned  for  obvious  reasons.  We  wanted  to  include  reference 
to  industry,  but  this  word  invariably  summoned  misleading 
evocations  of  industrial  design,  and  that  was  a  confusion  we  were 
determined  to  avoid. 


5.  Benefactors  are  non-technical,  non-manufacturing 
firms  who  donate  $7,000  to  the  Museum's  special 
fund  for  "Art  and  Technology." 

Industries  located  primarily  in  Southern  California 
are  now  being  approached  for  their  cooperation.  By 
May,  1968,  a  preliminary  list  of  ten  corporations 
should  be  made  public.  Beginning  at  this  time  and 
throughout  1968  and  1969,  artists  will  be  contacted 
by  the  Museum  and  asked  to  submit  project  pro- 
posals. Artists  will  be  approached  largely  on  the  basis 
of  the  quality  of  their  past  work  and  expressed 
interest  in  specific  technological  processes.  Projects  to 
be  implemented  will  be  chosen  by  the  Museum  on  the 
basis  of  both  potential  esthetic  stature  and  practical 
feasibility.  Corporations  will  be  presented  with  an 
appropriate  work  proposal  for  their  approval  in 
principle;  scheduling  will  then  be  arranged  by  the 
corporation,  the  artist  and  the  Museum.  The  initial 
proposal  submitted  to  corporations  will  be  sufficient- 
ly clear  to  indicate  the  extent  and  nature  of  the 
corporation's  involvement.  It  is  understood  that  this 
preliminary  plan  may  change  considerably  during  the 
course  of  the  collaboration  between  corporative 
personnel  and  artist. 

Participating  artists  will  sign  a  contract  drawn  up  by 


12 


the  Museum  setting  forth  rules  and  conditions. 
Non-local  artists  receive  round-trip  economy  air  fare 
plus  $20  per  diem  expenses  and  Honorarium  of  $250 
per  week.  Local  artists  receive  the  same  Honorarium. 

Corporations  will  enter  into  a  written  agreement  with 
the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art  in  advance  of 
the  scheduled  residence  periods. 

In  May,  1968,  IBM  and  American  Cement  Corporation 
signed  Patron  Sponsor  contracts  and  became  the  first 
contracted  participants  in  Art  and  Technology.  In 
October  we  officially  announced  the  program.  Press 
coverage  in  the  New  York  Times  and  Los  Angeles  Times 
occasioned  by  this  announcement  were  to  help  us  in 
attracting  most  of  the  remaining  corporations  we  re- 
quired to  make  the  program  work.  Two  months  later  we 
listed  the  companies  contracted  to  date  in  the  first  of 
eleven  monthly  reports: 


counter.  I  had,  for  example,  a  particularly  emotional 
conversation  with  Robert  Irwin,  who  told  me  that  many 
artists  resented  certain  aspects  of  the  program  as  they 
understood  it:  they  felt  that  it  was  unfair  for  the 
Museum  to  take  possession  of  the  works  created;  that 
the  Museum  was  primarily  interested  in  producing  an 
exhibition,  rather  than  in  arbitrating  the  process  of 
interaction  as  an  end  in  itself;  that  artists  would  be 
pressed  by  the  Museum  into  making  works  for  these 
reasons;  and  that  they  would  not  in  fact  be  given  access 
to  experimental  situations  within  companies  which  were 
not  demonstrably  related  to  the  materials  or  processes  of 
their  past  work.  It  was  not  difficult  to  disabuse  Irwin 
and  others  of  their  misconceptions  about  property  rights 
to  the  works  of  art,  since  the  Museum,  under  the  terms 
of  the  contracts,  had  no  right  whatever  to  receive  works 
of  art;  this  was  made  clear  both  in  the  corporation 
agreements  and  in  the  contract  we  were  to  make  with 
artists. 


PATRON  SPONSORS 

1 .  American  Cement  Corporation 

2.  Ampex  Corporation 

3.  International  Business  Machines  Corporation 

4.  Kaiser  Steel  Corporation 

5.  Litton  Industries 

6.  Lockheed  Aircraft  Corporation 

7.  Teledyne,  Inc. 

8.  The  Garrett  Corporation 

9.  Universal  City  Studios,  Inc. 
10.  Wyle  Laboratories 

SPONSORS 

1.  Eldon  Industries,  Inc. 

2.  Hall  Inc.  Surgical  Systems 

3.  Hewlett-Packard 

4.  Norris  Industries  Inc. 

5.  Philco-Ford  Corporation 

6.  The  Rand  Corporation 

7.  TRW  Systems 

CONTRIBUTING  SPONSOR 

1.  Twentieth  Century  Fox  Film  Corporation 
BENEFACTORS 

1.  Bank  of  America 

2.  North  American  Rockwell  Corporation 

Much  of  our  energy  now  shifted  from  negotiations  with 
companies  to  the  task  of  selecting  and  touring  artists. 
Our  discussions  with  artists  were  often  strangely  intense, 
and  there  was  more  opposition  on  their  part  to  the  goals 
of  Art  and  Technology  than  we  had  expected  to  en- 


The  issue  of  our  intended  exhibition  of  the  works  made 
through  Art  and  Technology  was  more  complicated.  My 
primary  motive  in  attempting  to  make  the  resources  of 
industry  available  to  artists  was  emphatically  not  to 
simply  mount  an  exhibition.  I  thought  it  would  be 
fascinating  to  observe  a  potentially  vital  reciprocal 
process,  and  expected  personal  and  professional  gratifi- 
cation from  my  role  as  catalyst  in  establishing  the 
vehicle  for  such  connections.  I  believed  that  it  was  the 
process  of  interchange  between  artist  and  company  that 
was  most  significant,  rather  than  whatever  tangible 
results  might  quickly  occur.  Obviously  the  probability 
that  works  of  art  would  be  created  was  not  to  be  ig- 
nored—I knew  that  many  artists  would  want  nothing 
more  than  physically  to  realize  esthetic  ideas  that  may 
have  remained  in  their  minds  only  because  of  the  tech- 
nical difficulty  of  executing  them.  In  short,  one  could 
reasonably  expect  that  from  twenty  artists,  each  work- 
ing several  months  in  twenty  corporations,  some  kinds 
of  exhibitable  things  were  likely  to  emerge.  I  did  not 
regard  the  "success"  or  "failure"  of  the  project  as  resting 
mainly  with  the  quantity  or  even  quality  of  the 
"results."  But  I  also  tried  to  indicate  to  Irwin  that,  given 
the  rationale  for  such  an  experiment  (which  he  admitted 
willingly),  and  given  that  we  were  an  art  museum  of  the 
county  of  Los  Angeles,  it  was  only  reasonable  that  the 
institution  would  attempt  to  show  something  to  its 
audience  for  its  efforts.  I  did  not  feel  that  this  would 
result  in  undue  pressure  being  placed  on  the  artists  to 
produce  certifiable  art  objects.  Interestingly,  Irwin 
himself  was  to  provide  perhaps  the  outstandingly  valu- 
able example  of  a  purely  interactive  situation,  issuing  in 
no  exhibitable  object,  although  he  did  seriously  contem- 
plate making  an  environmental  work  based  on  his 
research  at  the  Garrett  Corporation's  Life  Sciences 
Department.  I  firmly  believed,  moreoever,  that  to 
schedule  an  exhibition,  and  thus  work  toward  consign- 


Roy  Lichtenstein  and  Universal  City  Studios 


A&T 


"U^^^^ 


14 


merit  deadlines,  would  not  only  give  us  an  advantageous 
psychological  goal,  but  would  prove  helpful  in  eliciting 
cooperation  from  industry.  By  gearing  our  efforts 
toward  a  culminative  event,  a  quality  of  excitement  and 
an  increased  dedication  were  brought  to  bear  on  our 
labors  for  this  nebulous  and  prolonged  endeavor.  Art 
and  Technology  was  an  experiment— and  it  had  to  be 
made  coherent  and  explicit  in  order  to  be  validated. 

The  question  of  selecting  artists  for  participation  and 
deciding  which  artist  should  go  where  was  a  difficult 
one,  and  relates  critically  to  the  problem  of  making 
possible  true  "collaboration"  as  opposed  to  mere  "art- 
making."  We  wanted  viable,  productive  connections  to 
come  about,  but  it  was  important  to  us  that  these 
reciprocal  endeavors  be  challenging  and  rewarding  to 
both  the  artist  and  the  scientist  or  engineer,  by  pro- 
voking them  to  reach  beyond  habituated  patterns. 
However,  we  did  not  suppose  that  artists  of  character, 
accustomed  to  working  with  a  particular  vocabulary  of 
forms,  would  be  likely  to  abandon  suddenly  the  esthetic 
means  developed  over  a  lifetime,  merely  because  they 
were  cast  into  an  unfamiliar  situation  by  taking  up 
residence  in  a  company.  It  was  our  intention  simply  to 
offer  uncommon  opportunities  for  those  artists  inclined 
to  exercise  them.  How  these  opportunities  might  be  used 
was  exclusively  the  artist's  concern. 


burg  had  been  devoting  considerable  energy  to  the  study 
of  artists'  contracts  with  dealers,  galleries,  printmakers, 
etc.,  over  the  previous  year.  He  is  possessed  of  a  forensic 
acumen  that  makes  attorneys— including  his  own- 
envious.  He  wrote  to  me  on  January  27,  1969. 

These  are  my  recommendations  for  a  changed  con- 
tract for  the  artist  involved  in  the  Art  and  Tech- 
nology project.  I  want  to  emphasize  again  that  the 
contract  is  an  integral  part  of  the  collaboration  of  art 
and  technology.  To  ignore  contract-making  would  be 
to  remain  with  the  old  separation,  where  the  artist 
says:  I  don't  care  as  long  as  the  thing  gets  done,  a 
snobbish  attitude  which  I  don't  feel  fits  the  present 
and  very  American  context  of  artist-industry  coopera- 
tion. We're  not  engaged  in  creating  property  for  the 
County  Museum,  but  working  out  terms  which  are 
bound  to  influence  future  collaborations  of  this  sort. 

1.  Travel. 

I'll  have  to  travel  out  to  L.A.  several  times  (see  my 
proposed  schedule  letter  of  January  18). 
I  have  already  taken  my  allowed  round  trip  (coach! 
which  I  changed  to  first  class,  paying  difference 
myself)  just  to  meet  with  Disney  reps.  According  to 
Museum  further  trips  will  come  out  of  my  combined 
honorarium/diem  (letter  of  January  17). 


Our  intention  from  the  outset  of  Art  and  Technology 
was  to  pay  artists  for  time  spent  on  the  project,  while 
they  were  in  corporate  residence,  and  later  when  instal- 
ling works  at  the  Museum  if  their  presence  was  needed. 
Funds  raised  from  company  donations  allowed  us  to 
remunerate  artists  at  a  considerably  higher  rate  than  was 
conventionally  allotted  by  non-profit  institutions— inter- 
national symposia,  print  workshops,  etc.  We  also  attemp- 
ted to  structure  a  situation  whereby  most  of  the  works 
of  art  made  collaboratively  would  become  the  property 
of  the  artist.  To  overcome  any  potential  conflict  be- 
tween the  property  rights  of  artist  and  company  (the 
issue  arises  only  with  Patron  Sponsor,  not  Sponsor 
Corporations),  we  advised  artists  concerned  with  owner- 
ship of  works  to  plan  their  work  in  series,  so  that  they 
would  acquire  most  of  the  results.  At  the  same  time, 
companies  were  informed  that  they  should  expect  artists 
to  make  multiple  works  if  the  artists  so  desired.  The 
decision  as  to  what  constituted  the  "principal  work" 
(the  term  stated  in  the  contract  for  Patron  Sponsor 
ownership)  resided  with  us. 

We  drew  up  a  contract  for  artists  to  include  these  points 
and  to  make  clear  that  they  were  connected  to  the 
Museum,  rather  than  the  company,  in  terms  of  monies 
and  possible  obligations.  See  Appendix  II,  p.  36. 

Most  artists  signed  the  contract,  but  Claes  Oldenburg 
dissented  and  raised  some  interesting  questions.  Olden- 


*  I  demand  that  each  round  trip  be  paid  for,  first 
class,  not  from  the  hon./diem. 

*  I  also  demand  transportation  be  paid  for  materials 
I  may  bring  out  and  their  return.  Don't  corporations 
get  spec,  rates? 

*  Also  that  transportation  back  be  guaranteed  for 
works  not  acquired  by  the  Museum  though  made 
during  the  Museum  project. 

*  Also  for  the  "principal  work"  in  the  event  it  is 
rejected  by  the  patron  sponsor  and  the  museum. 

2.    In  working  with  the  unknown  quantity  of  an 
industry,  the  artist  engages  in  a  risk  esthetically,  and 
he  must  have  safeguards  which  assure  him  complete 
control  over  the  result. 

*  I  demand  that  the  artist  should  have  the  option  to 
resign  from  the  project  at  any  time  if  he  is  not  satis- 
fied with  its  progress. 

*  Also  that  the  artist  should  have  the  option  to  reject 
the  "principal  work"  or  any  work  made  that  does  not 
meet  his  standards,  and  refuse  the  exhibition  of  the 
work  by  the  Museum. 

*  Problems  in  installation  of  the  piece  may  arise  and 
the  installation  of  work  by  the  Museum,  if  the 
Museum  exhibits  it  should  be  subject  to  the  artists 
approval.  Also,  if  installation  help  is  needed,  the 
Museum  should  pay  the  artist's  trip  to  LA  to  help 
plus  expenses. 


Claes  Oldenburg  and  Gemini  G.E.L. 


A&T 


16 


3.  Paragraph  8  has  been  amended  so  that  the  artist 
retains  ownership  of  work  made  during  the  project 
not  "integral"  to  the  "principal  work."  "Integral" 
should  be  defined  as  part  of  the  work,  or  essential  to 
it.  Not  for  example  preparatory  sketches  or  models. 

*  Also,  the  artist  does  not  sign  over  his  copyright  of 
any  work  made  during  the  project  including  the 
"principal  work." 

4.  The  artist  takes  a  risk  in  exposing  himself  and  his 
work  to  commercial  exploitation  promised  in  the 
prospectus  to  industry:  ".  .  .  promotional  benefits 
can  be  considerable."  Not  however  to  the  artist. 

*  Therefore,  publicity  by  the  Museum  or  industry 
must  be  subject  to  the  artist's  approval  and/or  guaran- 
teed not  to  violate  his  best  interests.  An  example  of 
this  occurs  in  the  Times  article  where  a  spokesman 
for  the  industry  (Disney)  states  his  expectations  of 
what  will  occur:  "I  think  show-biz  is  a  good  thing  for 
an  artist  to  learn.  It  helps  him  to  clarify  his  ideas  .  .  ." 
Granted,  this  info  was  obtained  by  the  Times  re- 
porter, not  from  a  release,  but  seems  to  me  ominous. 

5.  A  reading  of  the  prospectus  to  industry  will 
indicate  how  much  the  burden  of  sacrifice  is  on  the 
artist,  not  on  the  other  collaborators.  Industry  gets  a 
tax  deduction  for  help  and  materials  provided,  and 
presumably  also  for  their  donation  of  $7,000  to  the 
project  and  their  donation  of  the  "principal  work"  to 
the  Museum.  That  they  will  donate  the  work  is  tacitly 
supposed,  though  they  are  also  promised  the  benefit 
of  receiving  art  works  (plural)  which  "will  exceed  in 
value  the  total  expense  of  the  corporation's  contri- 
bution." 


out  of  which  no  other  expenses  are  to  be  lifted,  such 
as  plane  tickets. 

*  A  realistic  per-diem  expense  of  $40,  considering 
hotel  rooms,  eating  out,  need  of  a  car  to  get  to 
Glendale.  This  to  be  paid  any  time  the  artist  is  in  LA 
working  on  the  project  including  installation  time  in 
1970. 

One  should  consider  that  the  artist  may  be  thinking 
about  the  project  in  his  home  base  before,  during  or 
after  his  execution  of  it  in  LA— this  is  time  not 
mentioned  in  the  contract.  Also  that  no  studio 
facilities  or  housing  arrangements  are  guaranteed  or 
provided,  and  that  a  certain  amount  of  time  will  be 
used  up  in  just  getting  settled. 

*  If  it  is  at  all  possible  to  arrange,  the  artist  should 
participate  in  any  tax  benefits  of  the  gift  to  the 
Museum  of  his  work.  He  should  definitely  receive  a 
percentage  in  the  event  the  work  is  sold  by  the 
Museum,  especially  if  it  is  to  a  private  party. 

replied  to  Claes  on  February  11,1 969, 
Let  me  address  myself  to  your  comments  point  by 
point.  The  four  starred  points  you  make  in  "1 " 
cannot  be  accommodated  for  any  artist  under  the 
present  budget  of  the  project.  Changes  of  this  nature 
would  have  to  hold,  of  course,  for  all  of  the  artists, 
and  if  these  changes  were  made,  the  complications 
and  added— unpredictable— expenses  would  obviate 
the  project  entirely.  Considering  that  all  the  expendi- 
tures made  by  the  Museum,  including  preparations  of 
different  kinds  and  fund-raising,  are  for  the  purpose 
of  a  single  exhibition,  and  not  for  acquisition  of 
works  of  art,  I  think  that  the  provisions  for  artists  are 
fair. 


The  other  "collaborator"— the  Museum,  receives  free 
a  work  of  the  artist  it  might  otherwise  have  had  to 
buy,  depriving  the  artist  and  his  agent  of  a  sale.  This 
gift  comes  with  no  strings  attached  and  the  right  to 
resell— without  any  percentage  to  the  artist— to 
anyone,  after  five  years,  the  right  to  exhibit  or  not, 
etc.,  all  the  benefits  had  they  bought  a  piece. 

The  artist  receives  no  tax  breaks,  and  is  to  work  at  a 
reduced  rate  for  three  months,  supporting  himself  in 
a  foreign  place  at  an  impossible  per  diem  rate,  and  in 
addition,  expected  to  pay  his  own  transportation  etc. 
Say  he  will  work  at  approximately  one  fifth  his 
normal  rate.  This  is  not  a  "collaboration"  and  is  not 
set  up  to  encourage  the  artist  to  do  his  best,  rather  to 
get  it  over  with  as  quickly  as  possible,  if  he  was 
unfortunate  enough  to  sign  the  contract. 

*  Therefore,  I  demand  an  increased  "honorarium"  of 
$6,000,  which  may  be  paid  on  an  installment  basis 


In  regard  to  "2":   The  artist  has  implicitly  the 
"option  to  resign"  in  his  contract,  and  to  "reject  the 
'principal  work'  or  any  work  made  that  does  not 
meet  his  standards,  and  refuse  the  exhibition  of  the 
work  by  the  Museum."  If  you  would  like  these  points 
stated  more  explicitly  in  your  contract,  we  can  do 
this.  So  far  as  installation  is  concerned,  I  know  you 
understand  that  in  any  exhibition  of  a  number  of 
artists'  works,  every  artist  could  not  and  has  never 
had  the  right  to  place  his  work  where  he  wants  it 
regardless  of  other  works.  However,  in  some  cases, 
specific  works  may  be  designed  with  a  particular 
installation  area  in  mind,  and  thus  the  artist  would  of 
course  have  that  location  reserved  for  his  work.  If 
you  wish  to  select  a  site  in  advance  of  the  completion 
of  your  project,  we  shall  do  our  best  to  accommodate 
you.  We  would  naturally  solicit  the  advice  of  artists  as 
to  placement  of  the  works  in  any  event,  and  if  help  is 
needed,  of  course  the  Museum  should  pay  the  artist's 
trip  to  Los  Angeles  for  this  purpose  plus  expenses. 


17 


A&T 


Re  "3";   "Integral"  clearly  does  not  refer  to  prepara- 
tory sketches  or  models;  and  there  can  similarly  be  no 
doubt  that  the  artist  "does  not  sign  over  his  copy- 
right .  .  ." 

Re  "4":    Beyond  the  safeguards  taken  by  the 
Museum  on  the  artists'  behalf,  it  would  be  impossible 
to  guarantee  that  some  independent  journal  will  not 
negatively  criticize  an  artist's  work  or  in  any  number 
of  ways  "violate  the  artist's  best  interests."  I  know 
you  realize  this  and  I  doubt  that  you  would  want  it 
otherwise.  So  far  as  comments  by  corporation  person- 
nel go,  which  is  what  you  have  in  mind,  the  Museum, 
while  it  cannot  require  that  every  company  man  clear 
an  answer  to  a  press  question  with  us,  has  emphasized 
and  will  continue  to  request  of  corporations  that 
every  reasonable  effort  be  made  to  clear  public 
statements  with  the  Museum. 


Despite  a  certain  suspiciousness  of  the  project  on  the 
part  of  some  artists  (exclusively  American  artists,  inci- 
dentally, and  particularly  Los  Angeles  ones),  only  three 
artists,  out  of  the  total  of  sixty-four  we  approached, 
were  categorically  opposed  to  association  with  the  Art 
and  Technology  program  from  the  outset.  They  are  all 
extraordinary  artists,  and  I  was  at  considerable  pains  to 
make  certain  that  they  did  not  misunderstand  the 
premises  of  Art  and  Technology.  Frank  Stella  simply 
couldn't  abide  even  the  idea  of  working  in  an  industrial 
plant.  Jasper  Johns  felt  similarly;  he  patiently  explained 
to  me  that  the  content  of  his  art  is  about  the  move  of  a 
hand  from  one  point  in  space  to  another  nearby,  and 
that  to  him  the  possibility  of  moving  in  a  social  situation 
to  make  art  was  unthinkable.  Ed  Kienholz,  on  the  other 
hand,  though  not  opposed  to  the  idea  in  principle,  could 
not  imagine  what  industry  could  do  for  him  that  he 
couldn't  do  for  himself. 


Re  "5":    It's  not  clear  to  me  what  you  mean  by 
corporations  "are  also  promised  the  benefit  of  receiv- 
ing art  works  (plural)  .  .  ."  since  a  Patron  Sponsor  has 
only  the  option  to  receive  a  single  work.  Other  works 
automatically  belong  to  the  artist;  moreover,  all 
works  executed  by  Sponsor  Corporations  (as  opposed 
to  Patron  Sponsors)  go  to  the  artist.  Almost  half  of 
the  corporations  involved  do  not  stand  to  receive  any 
work  of  art.  Furthermore,  it  is  quite  posssible  that 
none  of  the  Patron  Sponsors  will  offer  a  work  to  us. 
This  should  indicate  that  we  have  not  structured  the 
project  to  gain  "free"  art  works  for  the  Museum. 
Your  point  about  the  Museum's  right  to  resell  a  work 
should  it  be  offered  as  a  gift  to  us  can  be  changed  to 
suit  you,  since  it  is  most  definitely  not  our  intention 
to  sell  any  major  works  from  the  collection.  If  you 
like,  you  may  stipulate  that  any  gift  of  your  work 
made  to  the  Museum  may  not  be  sold  in  your  life- 
time. 

The  honorarium  figure  was  the  maximum  sum  the 
Museum  could  budget  and  it  will  not  be  possible  to 
change  it  at  this  time  for  any,  and  therefore  all,  of  the 
artists.  I  very  much  agree  that  a  $40  per  diem  expense 
is  more  realistic  than  the  present  expense,  but  our 
figure  is  based  on  County  of  Los  Angeles  regulations. 
This  has  always  been  a  serious  problem  for  Curators 
and  to  date  an  insoluble  one.  I  can  only  offer  to 
alleviate  your  expenses  by  covering  them  as  much  as 
possible  while  you  are  here,  and  by  arranging  to  pay 
you  for  a  special  event  or  two  which  could  make  up 
the  monetary  difference  between  your  desires  and 
what  is  called  for  in  the  contract.  I  do  not  think  that 
time  spent  in  planning  the  project  can  be  estimated  or 
budgeted.  I  do  think  that  any  possible  tax  benefits 
accruable  to  artists  should  be  encouraged,  but  I 
cannot  yet  conceive  of  how  this  might  be  effected. 


Every  other  artist  we  approached  was  in  theory  willing 
to  pursue  the  collaborative  opportunity  at  least  to  the 
extent  of  touring  corporations.  Personalities  as  diverse  as 
Jean  Dubuffet  and  James  Byars,  Jules  Olitski  and  George 
Brecht,  Roy  Lichtenstein  and  Jackson  MacLow,  were 
interested  in  exploring  the  notion  of  coming  to  Cali- 
fornia to  work  in  a  corporate  setting.  I  had  expected 
resistance  from  artists,  aside  from  the  reluctances  discus- 
sed above,  on  "moral"  grounds— opposition,  that  is,  to 
collaborating  in  any  way  with  the  temples  of  Capitalism, 
or,  more  particularly,  with  militarily  involved  industry. 
This  issue  never  became  consequential  in  terms  of  our 
program,  perhaps  because  the  politically  conscious  artist 
saw  himself,  to  speak  metaphorically,  as  a  Trotsky 
writing  for  the  Hearst  Empire.  However,  I  suspect  that  if 
Art  and  Technology  were  beginning  now  instead  of  in 
1967,  in  a  climate  of  increased  polarization  and  organ- 
ized determination  to  protest  against  the  policies  sup- 
ported by  so  many  American  business  interests  and  so 
violently  opposed  by  much  of  the  art  community,  many 
of  the  same  artists  would  not  have  participated. 

As  we  set  about  contacting  artists  we  had  certain  defi- 
nite guidelines.  First  of  all  we  were  determined  to 
involve  artists  of  quality,  regardless  of  their  style  of 
work,  and  we  were  not  especially  seeking  artists  whose 
approach  was  "technologically  oriented."  If  anything, 
we  may  have  been  prejudiced  against  those  artists  who 
had  been  deliberately  employing  the  tools  of  new 
technology  for  its  own  sake,  because  so  many  recent 
exhibitions  centered  on  this  notion  had  been  of  little 
interest  artistically.  We  were  also  determined  to  discuss 
Art  and  Technology  with  as  wide  a  range  of  artists  as 
possible— Europeans  and  Americans,  Japanese  and  South 
Americans;  artists  of  great  repute  along  with  unrecog- 
nized figures;  artists  in  their  sixties  and  artists  in  their 
twenties.  We  felt  that  only  by  exposing  diverse  types  of 
artists  to  corporations  could  the  value  of  the  premises  of 


Oyvind  Fahlstrom  and  Heath  and  Company 


19 


A&T 


Art  and  Technology  be  tested.  Therefore  we  tried  to 
approach  not  only  painters  and  sculptors  but  poets  and 
musicians  (thus  involving  Karlheinz  Stockhausen  and 
Jackson  MacLow).  We  tried  to  prepare  for  unanticipated 
requests  from  artists,  and  fortunately  the  structure  of 
Art  and  Technology  permitted  us  a  degree  of  flexibility 
when  necessary.  For  example,  certain  artists  we  ap- 
proached wished  to  collaborate  with  a  fellow  artist 
(Irwin  and  James  Turrell,  Stockhausen  and  Otto  Piene, 
Robert  Morris  and  Craig  Kauffman)  at  a  particular 
company;  or  an  artist  might  extend  his  period  of  resi- 
dence over  a  year,  or  even  two,  by  leaving  and  returning 
to  the  plant  several  times  (as  did  Lichtenstein,  Rauschen- 
berg,  Richard  Serra  and  Jesse  Reichek). 


helpful.  Cal  Tech  physicist  Dr.  Richard  Feynman.who 
served  as  Consultant  to  Art  and  Technology,  might 
attend,  and  one  of  us— Jane  Livingston,  Gail  Scott, 
James  Monte,  Hal  Glicksman  or  myself— was  always 
there.  It  was  quickly  apparent  that  the  presence  of  a 
congenial  company  representative  was  a  critical  factor. 
With  an  alert,  sympathetic  engineer,  the  tour  was  likely 
to  be  lively  and  stimulating.  Without  such  a  person  to 
lead  us  into  interesting  areas  of  discourse,  the  facility 
itself  would  have  to  be  intrinsically  compelling,  with  an 
obvious  potential  art  medium,  for  the  tour  to  succeed. 
Generally  one  or  the  other  of  these  conditions  prevailed. 
If  they  did  not,  the  tour  could  be  a  lugubrious  and 
wearying  exercise. 


Over  a  period  of  more  than  two  years,  from  late  1967  to 
1970,  while  we  were  contacting  artists,  we  also  received 
seventy-eight  unsolicited  proposals  from  artists  who  had 
read  or  heard  about  Art  and  Technology.  All  of  these 
proposals  were  studied  carefully  and  many  were  recon- 
sidered several  times  with  various  companies  in  mind. 
None,  in  the  end,  were  accepted.  These  projects  in- 
volved, most  often,  the  areas  of  transduction;  of  plastics 
used  in  a  variety  of  ways;  of  computers;  and  of  lasers 
and  holography.  Many  artists  wanted  to  make  total, 
elaborate  and  integrated  environmental  situations. 
Generally,  the  unsolicited  proposals  were  made  by 
relatively  unknown  artists.  There  was  a  rather  high 
percentage  of  proposals  received  from  pairs  or  groups  of 
artists  wishing  to  work  together.  There  was  also  a  high 
proportion  of  women  artists.  Few  engineers  or  scientists 
approached  us.  There  were  one  or  two  cases  of  eccentric, 
"primitive"  or  folk-traditional  artists  who  wished  to 
make  mad  machines  through  Art  and  Technology.  We 
were  usually  reluctant  to  follow  through  on  proposals 
which  seemed  too  completely  designed,  or  thought  out 
in  advance,  so  that  the  corporation's  role  would  simply 
be  a  question  of  executing  a  previously  conceived  plan, 
rather  than  collaborating  actively  in  both  the  conception 
and  execution  of  an  idea.  The  most  interesting  proposals 
are  described  in  the  artists'  section,  part  3. 

Our  method  of  approaching  artists  did  not  substantially 
vary  from  the  outset  of  the  program.  Each  artist  was 
visited,  or  came  to  the  Museum,  and  was  shown  material 
on  one  or  more  (usually  four)  corporations  that  we 
thought  might  be  of  personal  interest.  Each  artist  was 
invited  to  tour  corporations  before  deciding  on  the 
nature  of  work  he  might  wish  to  do. 

These  tours  were  usually  conducted  by  a  corporation 
public  relations  man,  often  a  former  engineer,  who 
would  introduce  the  artist  to  department  heads  in  each 
division.  Often  a  conference  of  these  departmental 
chiefs,  along  with  other  executives,  would  be  held  to 
answer  the  artist's  questions.  Sometimes  a  film  on  the 
company's  total  operations  was  shown— this  was  often 


In  originally  considering  appropriate  artist-corporation 
matches,  certain  apt  connections  came  to  mind  readily 
and  with  forcefulness:  Dubuffet  at  American  Cement 
Corporation,  Vasarely  at  IBM,  Oldenburg  in  Disneyland, 
Lichtenstein  at  Universal  Film  Studios,  Andy  Warhol  at 
Hewlett-Packard  (for  holography).  These  five  combina- 
tions seemed  natural  but  not  too  pat.  We  expected  other 
matches  to  come  about  less  on  the  basis  of  our  sugges- 
tion than  through  the  process  of  exposing  artists  to 
various  companies.  Many  of  the  observations  made  in 
regard  to  these  few  artists  apply  as  well  to  other  collab- 
orations; I  cite  them  as  key  examples  of  the  kinds  of 
issues  and  problems  confronted  throughout  the  program. 

Each  of  these  artist's  work  suggested  to  us  a  process 
which  was  then  available  in  a  contracted  company.  For 
several  years  Dubuffet  had  been  working  with  cement, 
making  sculptures  and  bas-reliefs  on  a  limited  scale. 
Vasarely's  plotted  paintings  called  to  mind  a  computer 
company  like  IBM.  Oldenburg's  proposals  for  monu- 
ments and  his  anthropomorphising  of  objects  and 
animals  made  the  facilities  at  Disney  seem  almost  neces- 
sary. Roy  Lichtenstein  had  started  making  his  first 
sculptures,  and  Universal's  exceptional  capacities  for 
non-load  bearing  construction  (with  staff,  a  material 
made  of  plaster  and  fibre)  seemed  of  likely  interest.  (In 
fact,  the  artist  ignored  this  possibility  and  went  directly 
to  work  with  film.)  Warhol's  work  suggested  to  me  a 
latent  relationship  to  holograms. 

We  approached  each  of  these  artists  primarily  with  the 
companies  noted  in  mind,  and  each  was  responsive.  Most 
of  these  artists  became  deeply  involved  with  Art  and 
Technology  and  eventually  made  unusual  works  of  art  as 
a  consequence  of  their  connections  to  companies, 
although  not  always  with  the  particular  company  with 
which  they  were  first  associated.  Lichtenstein  stayed 
with  Universal,  but  Oldenburg  and  Warhol  were  to  work 
with  different  companies  and  techniques  than  those 
visualized  originally.  The  other  two  artists  also  became 
involved  in  the  program  but  did  not  develop  work  to  a 
point  of  resolution.  The  experiences  of  both  Dubuffet 


Rockne  Krebs  and  Hewlett-Packard  Company 


\aJU%?^ 


21 


A&T 


and  Vasarely  were  similar.  Each  is  European  and  over 
sixty.  They  responded  to  my  presentation  of  Art  and 
Technology  with  a  carefully  planned  proposal  for  a 
monumental  work.  Their  plans  called  for  fabulous 
expenditures,  straining  even  the  grandiloquent  capacity 
of  American  industry;  but  there  was  a  distinct  reluctance 
on  these  artists'  part  to  engage  with  engineers  and 
administrators  in  a  true  give-and-take  manner.  The 
concept  of  personal  dialogue— critical  to  the  nature  of 
Art  and  Technology— was  not  at  all  intriguing  to  these 
artists. 

In  contrast  to  the  Europeans,  most  American  artists 
chose— often  from  a  bewildering  array  of  possible  tech- 
niques—a relatively  simply  process,  approaching  the 
problems  implicit  in  it  with  single-minded  tenacity.  This 
was  clearly  observable  early  in  Art  and  Technology  in 
the  experiences  of  Lichtenstein,  Oldenburg  and  Warhol. 
American  artists  tended  to  focus  on  a  single  technical 
principle  or  device.  To  do  this  properly,  it  was  found, 
was  no  easy  matter.  Lichtenstein's  project  at  Universal 
seemed  "primitive"  to  their  sophisticated  technicians,  at 
least  until  the  real  nature  of  his  desire  became  apparent, 
for  Lichtenstein  wanted  a  pictorial  quality  many  times 
more  precise  than  is  needed  by  Universal  for  their  own 
purposes.  Andy  Warhol  finally  opted  to  reveal  an  in- 
tegrally imperfect  mechanical  system,  rather  than  make 
a  virtuoso  display  by  any  conventional  definition. 
Oldenburg  was  exclusively  concerned  with  making 
mechanized  versions  of  monumental  sculptures:  "make 
mechanics  obviously  stated,"  he  wrote  to  himself  at  one 
point.  Such  a  frank,  or  even  ironical,  attitude  toward  the 
machine  has  long  been  characteristic  of  many  American 
artists  (Sheeler,  Schamberg,  Rube  Goldberg),  albeit  with 
a  certain  romantic  or  comic  nuance. 

Aside  from  these  artist-company  connections,  which  got 
the  program  underway,  we  generally  went  to  artists  with 
less  specific  notions  than  these  in  mind.  Few  artists  we 
approached  (Donald  Judd  may  be  the  sole  exception) 
expressed  interest  in  reducing  possible  action  with  a 
company  to  in  absentia  fabrication.  An  artist  might 
indicate  to  us  his  interest  in  a  specific  process,  as,  for 
example,  Robert  Morris  who  referred  to  heating  and 
cooling  devices,  leading  us  to  research  our  companies  for 
this  capacity.  More  often  an  artist  would  have  no  notion 
at  all  about  what  a  corporation  might  have  to  offer,  but 
almost  all  wanted  to  have  a  look  at  them.  After  touring 
several  companies  most  artists  formulated  a  more  or  less 
specific  plan  of  attack,  either  a  proposal  for  an  art  work 
or  a  request  to  explore  a  particular  facility  in  depth. 
There  were  actually  only  four  exceptions  to  this,  that  is, 
artists  who  toured  companies  but  saw  nothing  to  inspire 
an  idea  or  a  desire  to  work  within  them.  These  four 
artists  were  Philip  King,  who  flew  from  London  to  visit 
Kaiser  Steel,  Wyle  Laboratories  and  American  Cement, 
James  Rosenquist,  who  toured  Container  Corporation  of 
America,  Ampex  and  RCA;  Peter  Voulkos,  who  went  to 


Morris  Industries  and  John  McCracken  who  visited 
Morris  Industries,  Litton  Industries  and  Philco-Ford 
Corporation. 

Most  of  those  artists  who  became  acquainted  with 
corporation  facilities  wanted  to  take  up  residence  at  a 
particular  firm.  Over  fifty  artists  wished  to  collaborate; 
twenty-three  of  those  actually  did,  spending  varying 
periods  of  time  at  a  company  or  companies.  (This  was 
roughly  the  percentage  of  successful  matches  we  had 
anticipated  achieving  when  we  drew  up  the  budget  a 
year  earlier.)  We  can  now  conclude  that  two  factors 
largely  determined  whether  or  not  a  collaboration  would 
result  from  our  preliminary  efforts.  The  first  considera- 
tion had  to  do  simply  with  the  artist's  personality,  most 
particularly  his  ability  to  communicate  with  diverse 
kinds  of  people.  This  was  of  course  a  subtle  factor,  not 
quantitatively  definable,  but  observable  nevertheless.  Les 
Levine's  somewhat  casual,  free-wheeling  manner,  for 
example,  did  not  ingratiate  him  to  the  people  at  Ampex; 
lain  Baxter's  seeming  frivolity  was  worrisome  to  Garrett; 
Len  Lye's  definiteness  about  his  demands  and  im- 
patience with  apparent  technical  limitations  did  not 
inspire  the  Kaiser  personnel.  But  of  course  each  com- 
pany responded  differently:  IBM  personnel  were  perhaps 
offended  by  Jackson  MacLow's  unconventional  appear- 
ance and  dress,  and  possibly  by  his  politics,  but  another 
computer  company  (Information  International)  found 
him  entirely  acceptable.  Much  depended  on  whom  the 
artist  might  meet  at  the  start,  while  touring  a  company: 
Robert  Whitman  met  optics  engineer  John  Forkner  at 
Philco-Ford,  and  the  two  personalities  were  immediately 
sympathetic,  despite  a  general  doubt  on  the  part  of  the 
company  itself,  while  Robert  Morris  could  never  find  a 
true  line  of  communication  with  anyone  at  Lear  Siegler, 
Inc. 

Often  contracted  corporations  would  hesitate  to  take  an 
artist  into  residence  when,  for  technical  reasons,  they 
anticipated  having  to  sub-contract  a  major  part  of  the 
project.  They  wished  to  utilize  indigenous  techniques 
and  materials.  This  was  the  second  key  factor  determin- 
ing the  ease  or  difficulty  of  setting  up  collaborations, 
and  was  basically  more  important  than  the  issue  of 
personalities.  This  problem  occurred  frequently,  but  it 
could  not  have  been  avoided.  The  central  premise  of  Art 
and  Technology  rested  on  a  one  artist-one  company 
nexus.  Early  in  the  program,  the  need  for  a  number  of 
back-up  companies  to  provide  raw  materials  was  antici- 
pated, and  in  fact  we  sought  commitments  from  firms 
such  as  Rohm  and  Haas,  for  plastics.  But  it  was  quickly 
apparent  that  companies  required  singular  identification 
with  an  artist  in  order  to  produce  and  perform  signifi- 
cantly. Companies  would  not  give  impersonally,  so  to 
speak,  any  more  readily  than  patrons  of  museums  make 
donations  anonymously.  To  alleviate  this  problem  we 
invented  the  category  of  Benefactor  Corporation:  we 


R.  B.  Kitaj  and  Lockheed  Aircraft  Corporation 


VsJ^ 


23 


A&T 


solicited  $7,000  donations  from  banks  and  other  non- 
participatory  firms  to  be  allotted  largely  for  the  acquisi- 
tion of  materials  or  specialized  services  not  made  avail- 
able by  a  sponsoring  corporation.  However,  we  per- 
suaded only  three  companies  to  enter  Art  and  Tech- 
nology in  this  category. 

The  factor  of  anticipated  sub-contracting  implicit  in  an 
artist's  proposal  was  primarily  instrumental  in  the  failure 
of  Michael  Asher,  Hans  Haacke,  Max  Bill,  Stephan  Von 
Huene,  Takis,  Otto  Piene,  Karlheinz  Stockhausen, 
Eduardo  Paolozzi  and  others  to  make  corporation 
connections.  Some  corporations  also  rejected  project 
proposals  for  reasons  of  excessive  in-house  expense,  of 
course,  but  this  happened  less  often:  IBM  studied 
Vasarely's  plan  for  weeks  and  concluded  that  it  might 
cost  up  to  two  million  dollars  to  build,  and  then  would 
only  have  a  life  of  four  years  (due  to  the  narrowing  life 
expectancy  of  successive  computer  generations);  Litton 
declined  Vjenceslav  Richter's  plan,  claiming  it  would 
cost  over  a  million  dollars;  RCA  similarly  declined  to 
work  on  Glenn  McKay's  project,  the  cost  of  which  was 
anticipated  at  $500,000. 

Most  of  the  vital  collaborative  work  done  under  Art  and 
Technology  took  place  during  1969  and  early  1970. 
Within  this  period  of  time,  some  artists  toured  the 
company,  returned  home,  formulated  a  detailed  pro- 
posal, entered  into  residence  at  a  corporation  for  about 
three  months,  executed  as  much  work  as  time  allowed, 
and  left.  This  was  basically  the  experience,  for  instance, 
of  R.  B.  Kitaj,  Oyvind  Fahlstrom  and  Jean  Dupuy.  These 
were  the  comparatively  simple  exchanges  to  consum- 
mate, partly  because  the  corporations  with  whom  these 
artists  collaborated,  or  specific  divisions  within  them,  are 
primarily  industrial  (Lockheed,  Heath,  Cummins)  and 
partly  because  of  the  orderly  and  sequential  manner  of 
working  characteristic  of  these  particular  artists. 

Few  cases  were  so  simple.  Most  artists,  as  has  been 
stated,  extended  their  residence  at  a  company  over  a 
year-long  period,  leaving  and  returning  several  times. 
This  rhythm  allowed  for  generally  advantageous  results. 
We  observed  a  definite  strengthening  and  maturing  of 
concepts  in  the  work  of  Robert  Rauschenberg,  Rockne 
Krebs  and  Tony  Smith,  for  example.  Rauschenberg  first 
visited  Teledyne  in  September,  1968,  beginning  an 
unusually  long  series  of  visits  to  the  company,  entailing 
discussions,  the  gathering  of  particular  data,  acquisition 
of  materials  from  all  over  the  U.S.,  testing,  etc.:  it  was 
not  until  October,  1970,  that  a  final  period  of  residence 
occurred,  and  work  accelerated;  the  project  is  to  be 
realized  in  February,  1971.  Krebs'  and  Smith's  experi- 
ences with  companies  were  also  protracted  and  concom- 
itantly enriching.  However,  there  were  dangerous 
moments  in  these  prolonged  collaborations,  for  the 
absence  of  the  artist  from  a  company  tended  to  reduce 


corporate  availability.  It  was  at  such  times  that  the 
Museum's  active  role  was  necessary  to  keep  the  connec- 
tion viable. 

Since  Rauschenberg,  Krebs  and  Tony  Smith  each 
worked  with  the  company  they  had  originally  selected, 
there  was  a  certain  coherence  in  these  collaborations  in 
spite  of  the  unusually  lengthy  period  of  time  involved. 
With  virtually  all  of  the  others,  however,  substantial 
involvement  on  our  part  was  mandatory  to  keep  the 
"marriage"  together.  Often  artists  had  to  leave  one 
company  for  another.  After  contracting  with  us,  John 
Chamberlain  developed  an  ambitious  scheme  for  a  work 
involving  diverse  odors  at  a  division  of  Dart  Industries' 
Riker  Laboratories.  The  president  of  the  company 
rejected  the  plan.  After  other  trials.  Chamberlain  became 
the  Rand  Corporation's  artist-in-residence  (following 
upon  Larry  Bell's  stint  there).  Wesley  Duke  Lee  came 
from  Brazil  to  work  at  Hall  Surgical  Systems.  After  two 
months  the  company  declined  further  participation, 
prompting  thereby  the  Odyssey  of  Wesley  Duke  Lee 
through  Southern  California:  the  artist  worked  at  over  a 
dozen  small  sub-contracting  firms  to  develop  his  project, 
which  had  been  defined  at  Hall,  racking  up  fourteen 
thousand  driving  miles,  in  a  project  that  was  to  last  eight 
months.  It  is  still  not  completed. 

The  outstanding  case  of  a  project  taxing  the  limits  of  our 
capacities  was  that  of  Robert  Whitman  at  Philco-Ford. 
Whitman  is  probably  the  most  experienced  "collabora- 
tive" artist  in  the  U.S.,  and,  as  I  noted  above,  he  had  the 
good  fortune  of  locating  a  brilliant  and  engaging  optics 
engineer,  John  Forkner.  With  the  implicit  support  of  the 
company,  a  Patron  Sponsor,  plans  for  a  radical  work- 
technically  innovative  and  esthetically  compelling— were 
drawn  up,  only  to  have  the  company  administration 
flatly  refuse  any  funds  for  construction.  The  realization 
of  this  work  required  far-flung  resources:  the  artist 
redesigned  his  work;  the  engineer  came  up  with  entirely 
altered  plans  for  construction;  a  display-fabricating  firm 
was  hired  to  create  certain  parts;  the  Laguna  Beach 
Unitarian  Church  Fellowship  pressed  one  hundred 
citizens  into  voluntary  service;  and  finally  the  United 
States  Information  Agency  provided  scores  of  laborers 
(when  the  work  was  first  shown  at  Expo  70)  for  the 
final  stages  of  construction.  Similar  nightmarish  compli- 
cations threatened  to  inhibit  the  construction  of  works 
Oldenburg  researched  and  defined  at  Disney  Produc- 
tions, but  in  this  case  we  induced  Gemini  G.E.L.  to  take 
over  the  production  of  one  of  Oldenburg's  several 
models,  and  they  did  so  with  unusual  efficiency  and 
dispatch. 


Andy  Warhol  and  Cowles  Communications,  Inc. 


v*.i^ 


Jackson  MacLow  and  Information  International 


A&T 


WJ^ 


26 


Given  such  obstacles  as  these,  twenty  artists  nevertheless 
are  expected  to  bring  projects  to  a  state  of  culnnination. 
In  virtually  every  case  there  was  a  particular  corporation 
individual  who  made  himself  responsible,  along  with  the 
artist,  for  the  success  of  the  collaboration.  Such  a  man 
might  be  primarily  an  authoritative  officer,  who  dele- 
gated responsibility,  such  as  R.  H.  Robillard  at  Lock- 
heed, or  a  genuine  technical  collaborator,  such  as  Fork- 
ner  at  Philco-Ford.  In  many  cases,  when  a  company  did 
give  generously  of  its  resources,  we  came  to  find  hidden, 
if  not  unusual,  motives  for  its  doing  so.  Jet  Propulsion 
Laboratory's  involvement  with  Newton  Harrison  is 
probably  accountable,  in  part,  to  the  company's  desire 
to  move  out  of  space  exploration  exclusively  and 
identify  itself  with  the  larger  area  of  environmental 
research.  Some  corporations  apparently  became  involved 
with  us  in  order  to  promote  a  particular  product  or 
process  (Cowles'  Xography)  or  an  area  that  the  company 
wished  to  make  better  known  (Garrett's  Life  Sciences 
Department).  General  Electric  was  eager  to  modernize 
their  image.  Two  major  companies— involved,  not  coinci- 
dentally,  with  consumer-type  products— contracted  with 
us  because  of  their  presidents'  social  connections  with 
Mrs.  Chandler.  Three  companies— the  smallest  ones- 
joined  with  us  solely  for  the  publicity.  Some  companies 
were  exceptionally  cooperative  because  of  a  tradition  of 
cultural  support  dating  back  for  years  (Container  Cor- 
poration of  America,  IBM,  Cummins),  but  other  com- 
panies, whose  presidents  are  art  collectors,  proved 
difficult  to  work  with,  precisely  because  that  knowledge 
of  art  created  a  restrictive  bias. 

In  April,  1969,  after  reading  a  second  article  on  Art  and 
Technology  by  Grace  Glueck  in  the  New  York  Times, 
Phyllis  Montgomery  of  Davis,  Brody,  Chermayeff, 
Geismar,  DeHarak,  Associates— the  Exhibition  Design 
Team  for  the  United  States  Pavilion  at  Expo  70— called 
me  to  discuss  the  possibility  of  my  organizing  an  exhibi- 
tion including  works  made  under  Art  and  Technology 
for  the  Pavilion.  Accordingly,  we  entered  into  extensive 
negotiations  with  the  USIA's  Commissioner  General 
(later  Ambassador)  Howard  Chernoff  and  Deputy 
Commissioner  General  Jack  Masey,  and  the  Exhibition 
Design  Team.  In  a  formal  contract,  signed  on  May  30, 

1969,  we  consented  to  postpone  the  Museum  show  for 
one  year,  and  draw  from  it  a  smaller  preview  exhibition 
for  Expo. 

The  commitment  to  deliver  in  time  for  Expo  70  was  a 
distinct  gamble.  Our  original  deadline  was  tightened, 
since  we  had  planned  to  exhibit  results  of  the  collabora- 
tions in  April,  1970,  at  the  Museum,  whereas  all  works 
for  Expo  had  to  be  installed— in  Japan— by  March  15, 

1970.  Also,  certain  inherent  conditions  restricted  the 
range  of  potential  works  for  Expo:  only  American  artists 
could  be  selected;  and  a  traffic  flow  of  up  to  10,000 
persons  per  hour  was  expected  throughout  the  seven-day 


week,  six-month  long  run  at  the  Fair.  (This  astonishing 
estimate  proved  to  be  correct:  10,800,000  visitors 
poured  through  the  Art  and  Technology  Exhibition  in 
the  U.S.  Pavilion  before  Expo  closed  in  mid-September.) 

I  felt  that  the  risk  was  worth  taking.  A  fundamental 
belief  in  the  necessity  of  giving  artists  access  to  industry 
lay  at  the  heart  of  Art  and  Technology,  and  Expo  70 
seemed  to  me  a  perfect  occasion  for  demonstrating  the 
validity  of  this  concern,  to  an  international  as  well  as  an 
American  audience.  We  had  six  months'  time  in  which  to 
deliver  eight  "rooms"  of  art,  for  that  was  basically  the 
way  the  art  exhibition  space  was  designed  in  the  Pavil- 
ion. Inevitably  those  six  months  were  crisis-fraught.  The 
complexity  of  the  logistics  involved  may  be  indicated  by 
the  fact  that  when  these  eight  remarkable  works  were 
shipped  to  Osaka,  they  comprised  15,000  separate  com- 
ponents, occupying  eighty  crates  and  weighing  forty 
tons.  Installation  in  Japan  took  ten  weeks  and  involved 
my  continual  presence,  extended  visits  by  five  of  the 
participating  artists,  several  U.S.  engineers,  a  team  of 
designers  and  architects  and  hundreds  of  workmen. 

The  only  "object"  in  the  Expo  exhibition  was  the  first 
work  encountered  outside  the  main  entrance  door  of  the 
New  Arts  Section:  Claes  Oldenburg's  Giant  Icebag, 
which  was  in  complex  motion  for  nineteen  minutes  and 
forty-five  seconds  and  rested  for  fifteen  seconds.  This 
was  the  only  work  that  actually  existed  before  the  Expo 
installation:  it  was  tested,  and  performed  perfectly,  in 
Los  Angeles  in  January,  1970.  Each  of  the  other  seven 
works  arrived  in  Japan  in  the  form  of  disconnected  sys- 
tem components,  which  were  never  entirely  combined 
and  put  into  operation  until  their  mounting  at  the  Expo 
site.  The  fact  that  none  of  us  could  accurately  visualize 
the  Expo  show  beforehand— even  the  artists  did  not 
know  precisely  what  their  works  would  do  in  the  unfore- 
seen conditions— caused  a  certain  amount  of  understand- 
able anxiety,  as  well  as  excitement.  Inside  the  exhibition 
space  the  viewer  first  found  himself  in  Boyd  Mefferd's 
room.  One  hundred  twenty  wall-mounted  strobe  units 
flashed  in  program,  causing  intense,  apparently  halluci- 
natory retinal  images  (provided  the  viewer  took  at  least 
fifteen  seconds  to  allow  this  to  happen:  very  few  did). 
One  next  entered  Tony  Smith's  cave,  made  entirely  of 
corrugated  cardboard,  and  illuminated  from  above  by 
shafts  of  light.  Thousands  of  octahedra  and  tetrahedra, 
shipped  to  Japan  in  scored  flat  sheets,  were  individually 
assembled  on  site  and  mounted  architecturally  according 
to  a  complicated  twelve  foot  model  the  artist  had  made. 
After  the  viewer  traversed  ninety  feet  through  the  Smith 
tunnel,  he  came  up  against  Robert  Whitman's  optical 
tour  de  force:  a  twenty-three  foot  semi-circular  space 
containing  various  illusionistic  phenomena.  Placed 
against  the  semi-circular  wall  from  floor  to  eye-level 
were  one  thousand  corner-shaped  mirrors  which  reflect- 
ed to  each  viewer,  regardless  of  where  he  stood  or 


Tony  Smith  and  Container  Corporation  of  America 


A&T 


Robert  Whitman  and  Phjico-Ford  Corporation 


VJJ^^ 


29 


A&T 


walked,  on/y  his  own  image,  repeated  a  thousand  times. 
Mounted  above  eye-level  were  five  pairs  of  five  by  seven 
foot  pulsating  mylar  mirrors,  in  front  of  which  hovered 
ten  eerily  bright  three-dimensional  objects  (a  pear,  drill, 
goldfish  bowl  with  live  fish,  a  knife,  a  clock,  ferns,  etc.). 
From  Whitman's  room  one  stepped  into  Newton 
Harrison's  forest  of  five  thirteen-foot  high  plexiglass 
columns,  each  filled  with  glowing  gas  plasmas,  pro- 
grammed to  create  varying  color-shapes  of  pure  light.  In 
Harrison's  room,  as  in  Whitman's  area,  the  viewer  was  in 
the  dark,  seeing  mysterious  shapes  being  formed  out  of 
light.  So  too  in  Krebs'  laser  room,  entered  from 
Harrison's,  one  perceived  light  patterns  in  a  dark  envi- 
ronment: the  piece  formed  a  complex  web  of  red  and 
blue-green  pencil-thin  beams,  crossed,  interlaced  and  in 
one  place  extended  (through  two  enormous  parallel 
mirrors)  "into  infinity."  The  sense  of  immateriality  in 
Krebs'  sculpture  was  strengthened  by  the  fluctuation  of 
the  light  patterns.  Into  a  large  alcove  at  the  far  end  of 
Krebs'  room  were  placed  two  35mm  rear  projectors  for 
Roy  Lichtenstein's  two  movie  screens.  Each  screen  meas- 
ured seven  by  eleven  feet;  the  projected  film  image  on 
each  screen  was  a  "moving  picture."  One  image  com- 
bined film  footage  of  ocean  and  sky;  the  other  screen 
depicted  ocean  surface  and  a  dot  pattern  above;  both 
screens  were  split  with  a  horizon-like  black  line,  and  the 
images  rocked.  From  this  paradoxically  anti-filmic  evo- 
cation of  "nature"  one  turned  to  Andy  Warhol's  work, 
which  also  dealt  with  man's  transformation  of  nature 
Into  artifice:  it  was  a  giant  field  of  three-dimensional 
printed  flowers,  seen  through  sparkling  transparent  cur- 
tains of  water,  falling  like  rain. 

Even  with  the  wide  diversity  of  artistic  styles  presented 
in  the  Expo  exhibition,  certain  singular  characteristics 
were  shared  by  the  eight  artists.  In  fact,  many  of  these 
qualities  now  seem  to  apply  to  most  of  the  other  artists 
in  the  Art  and  Technology  program,  such  as  Robert 
Rauschenberg  and  Jesse  Reichek.  Primary  among  these  is 
an  emphasis  on  transient  images  and  evanescent  phenom- 
ena. At  Expo,  there  was  no  object  which  sat  in  a  tradi- 
tional relationship  to  a  ground.  Flicker  and  vibration 
were  omnipresent— but  not  in  the  pretentious  manner 
endemic  to  much  mechanical  art.  Distinct  and  tangible 
images  presented  themselves  but  they  would  become 
transformed  or  disappear.  Much  depended  on  one's  par- 
ticular vantage  point— your  neighbor  was  never  seeing 
what  you  were  seeing  at  the  same  time.  This  was  true 
even  though  certain  of  the  works,  which  had  potential 
for  individual  participation,  were  forced  to  relinquish 
this  aspect  because  of  the  enormous  crowds  at  Expo. 
There  was  a  notable  absence  of  visible  housing  for  each 
work,  allowing  a  purity  and  directness  of  confrontation 
with  technique  rather  than  mechanics.  But  no  works 
were  designed  to  parade  technique;  almost  every  artist  in 
the  program  displayed  a  certain  reserve  before  the  tools 
of  technology.  As  the  artists  de-emphasized  the  look  of 


the  machine,  they  were  able  to  maximize  a  sense  of  pen- 
etrating psychological  immediacy.  One  did  not  feel  a 
palpable  sense  of  virtuosity  in  these  works,  but  rather  a 
character  of  restraint  and  esthetic  sureness. 

After  Expo  opened,  I  reported  to  the  Museum's  Board 
of  Trustees  on  our  experience  with  Art  and  Technology 
in  Japan,  and  we  turned  to  the  consideration  of  the 
Museum's  exhibition.  Our  budget,  estimated  in  1968, 
had  been  proving  close  to  the  mark.  We  had  raised  over 
$40,000  more  than  expected  from  corporations  and  had 
therefore  been  able  to  place  several  more  artists  in 
residence  than  anticipated. 

Based  on  what  we  learned  from  the  Expo  experience,  a 
further,  and  even  an  unprecedented  commitment  is  now 
required  by  the  Museum  to  mount  the  new  exhibition. 
Virtually  all  the  works  produced  through  Art  and 
Technology  are  conglomerates  of  component  parts, 
dependent  for  their  very  existence  on  elaborately  con- 
structed formal  matrices.  The  works  shown  at  Expo  will, 
with  the  exception  of  Oldenburg's  Icebag,  be  fundamen- 
tally reworked  due  to  the  much  greater  design  flexibility 
of  the  Museum  space.  Moreover  about  twelve  additional 
artists'  projects  are  expected  to  be  resolved  for  the  Los 
Angeles  show. 

The  accounts  of  interaction  among  seventy-six  artists, 
over  225  corporation  employees,  and  Museum  staff 
members  comprise  part  3  of  this  Report.  Both  the 
emotional  complexities  and  the  sheer  logistical  difficul- 
ties implicit  in  this  five-year  engagement  emerge  cumu- 
latively through  these  accounts. 

October  30,  1970 


Appendix  1  A&T 


AGREHyiENT 


IT  IS  HEREBY  AGREED  by  and  between 


(hereinafter  Patron  Sponsor)  and  MUSEUM  ASSOCIATES,  INC.  (hereinafter  Museum), 
as  follows : 

1.  Museum  operates  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art.  Museum  is  pre- 
sently planning  an  exhibition  tentatively  entitled  "Art  and  Technology"  to  be 
held  at  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art  in  the  spring  of  1970. 

2.  Patron  Sponsor  desires  to  participate  in  and  assist  Museum  in  the 
development  of  said  exhibition. 

3.  Museum  has  advised  Patron  Sponsor  that  Museum  will  proceed  with  the 
development  of  said  exhibition  if  it  obtains  agreements,  comparable  to  this 
agreement,  with  no  less  than  ten  Patron  Sponsors  (or  with  other  types  of  spon- 
sors representing  the  monetary  and  resource  equivalent  thereof). 

4.  Museum  has  advised  Patron  Sponsor  (a)  that  any  work  of  art  created  in 
the  development  of  said  exhibition  may,  in  the  sole  discretion  of  Museimi,  be 
deemed  inappropriate  for  inclusion  in  said  exhibition,  and  (b)  that  Museum  may, 
in  its  sole  discretion,  conclude  that  the  totality  of  works  created  in  the 
development  of  said  exhibition  make  it  inappropriate  to  hold  said  exhibition. 
Patron  Sponsor  is  aware  that  in  the  event  of  either  of  these  alternatives,  or 
if  for  any  other  reason  except  for  failure  to  obtain  ten  Patron  Sponsors  (or 
the  equivalent)  the  exhibition  is  not  held,  or  work  undertaken  or  produced  at 
Patron  Sponsor's  facility  is  not  completed  or  exhibited.  Patron  Sponsor  is  not 
entitled  to  a  refund  of  any  money  or  services  or  other  things  of  value  which  it 
has  expended  in  connection  with  said  exhibition. 

5.  Patron  Sponsor  agrees  to  contribute  $7,000,  of  which  one-half  will  be 
paid  at  the  time  of  execution  of  this  Agreement  but  no  later  than  • 

1. 


32 


The  remaining  one-half  will  be  due  on  or  before  .   In  addition, 

Patron  Sponsor  agrees  to  commit  siifficient  materials,  working  space  and  techni- 
cal assistance  for  a  three-month  period  or  until  completion  of  the  artistic 
project  (as  hereinafter  defined),  whichever  is  shorter,  at  a  time  to  be  specified 
by  Museum.  Said  commitment  of  materials,  working  space  and  technical  assistance, 
together  with  the  precise  time,  will  be  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between 
Museum  and  Patron  Sponsor,  but  each  agrees  to  use  its  best  efforts  to  reach  such 
agreement , 

6.  Museum,  in  its  sole  discretion,  will  select  an  artist  and  an  artistic 
project  for  development  and  execution  at  the  facility  of  and  in  cooperation  with 
Patron  Sponsor. 

7.  Museum,  in  its  sole  discretion,  may  select  and  exhibit  at  the  Los  Angeles 
County  Miiseum  of  Art  any  or  all  works  of  art  created  at  Patron  Sponsor's  facility 
as  a  result  of  said  artistic  project.  Said  exhibition  may  be  scheduled  at  any 
time  diiring  the  year  1970.  In  addition,  Museum  may  arrange  for  the  exhibition  of 
any  of  said  works  of  art  at  other  museums  or  public  exhibitions  in  the  United  States 
or  abroad  at  any  time  until  December  31,   1972.  Patron  Sponsor  will  cooperate  with 
Museum  in  any  such  exhibition  or  exhibitions  and  will  not  display  any  of  said 
works  of  art  before  December  31,  1972  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Museum. 

8.  The  principal  work  of  art  created  as  a  consequence  of  any  artistic  pro- 
ject at  the  facility  of  Patron  Sponsor  will,  at  the  option  of  Patron  Sponsor  and 
without  further  payment,  become  the  property  of  Patron  Sponsor  at  the  conclusion 
of  the  exhibition  at  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art  (or  at  the  time  of  noti- 
fication to  Patron  Sponsor  that  said  work  will  not  be  exhibited).  In  the  event 
Patron  Sponsor  does  not  choose  so  to  acquire  any  such  work,  then  it  will  become 
the  property  of  the  artist  creating  it.  If  either  Patron  Sponsor  or  the  artist 
wishes  to  make  a  gift  of  said  work  to  Museum,  Museum  may,  in  its  sole  discretion, 
elect  to  accept  or  reject  said  gift. 

2. 


33  A&T 


9.  In  the  event  of  a  gift  to  Museum  of  any  work  of  art.  Museum  will  retain 
the  option  to  donate  or  lend  said  work  to  any  other  museum  or  public  institution, 
or,  after  a  five-year  interval,  to  sell  or  otherwise  dispose  of  said  work  to  any- 
one. Museum  will  further  retain  the  right  to  exhibit  or  not  exhibit  any  such 
gift. 

10.  If  an  artist  creates  additional  works  of  art  (beyond  the  "principal 
work"  described  in  paragraph  8),  the  artist  will  retain  ownership  of  any  such 
additional  works  unless  they  are  preparatory  to  or  an  integral  part  of  said  prin- 
cipal work,  in  which  case  their  ownership  will  be  subject  to  the  provisions  of 
paragraph  8. 

11.  Museum  will  carry  liability  insurance  on  artists  during  the  period  that 
they  are  working  at  the  facility  of  Patron  Sponsor.  During  such  time,  they  will 
be  regarded  as  "consultants"  to  Museum. 

12.  Museum  will  not  insure  any  works  of  art  produced  in  connection  with 
any  artistic  project,  except  liability  insurance  for  injury  or  damage  caused 

by  said  works  of  art  while  they  are  in  transit  to  or  on  display  at  the  Los  Angeles 
County  Museum  of  Art. 

13.  All  arrangements  and  charges  for  the  moving  of  objects  from  Patron  Spon- 
sor's facility  to  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art  (or  to  other  museums  or 
exhibitions)  and  return  to  point  of  origin  shall  be  the  responsibility  of  Museimi. 
Any  moving  anywhere  else  shall  be  the  responsibility  of  the  person  requesting 
said  movement.  Patron  Sponsor  agrees  to  store  any  works  created  in  connection 
with  said  artistic  project  at  its  sole  expense,  until  Museum  requests  that  said 
works  be  moved  to  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art.  In  the  event  Museum 
makes  no  such  request  on  or  before  the  opening  date  of  the  exhibition.  Patron 
Sponsor  may  make  its  own  arrangements  for  disposition  of  said  remaining  works 

at  its  own  expense.   If  an  artist  becomes  the  owner  of  any  works,  shipment  from 
Patron  Sponsor's  facility  or  from  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art  is  the 

3. 


34 


artist's  obligation  and  must  be  accomplished  promptly  upon  conclusion  of  said 
exhibition  or  the  artist  will  have  no  further  rights  to  any  such  work  and  neither 
Patron  Sponsor  nor  M\:iseum  will  have  any  obligation  to  return  or  account  for  any 
such  work  to  the  artist. 

14.  Patron  Sponsor  agrees  that  any  works  in  the  process  of  creation  or 
created  at  its  facility,  together  with  said  facility,  may  be  photographed  and 
reproduced  in  a  catalog,  press  releases,  slides  or  other  photographic  materials, 
and  that  all  such  photographic  materials  will  be  the  property  of  Museum.  Patron 
Sponsor  further  agrees  that  all  matters  relating  to  publicity  for  said  exhibition, 
said  artistic  project,  or  the  artist  involved  will  be  under  the  control  of  Museum, 
and  that  any  publicity  to  be  released  by  Patron  Sponsor  must  be  approved  in 
advance  by  Museum.  Museum  will,  in  its  sole  discretion,  give  Patron  Sponsor 
appropriate  credit  and  recognition  in  any  exhibition  display,  catalog  or  publicity. 

15.  All  notices  and  other  instruments  which  may  be  or  are  required  to  be 
given  or  made  by  Patron  Sponsor  or  Museum  to  each  other  shall  be  in  writing.  All 
notices  and  other  instruments  by  Patron  Sponsor  to  Museum  shall  be  sent  by  regis- 
tered mail,  postage  prepaid,  addressed  as  follows: 

Kenneth  Donahue,  Director 

Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art 

5905  Wilshire  Boulevard 

Los  Angeles,  California  9OO36 

or  to  such  other  addressee  and  to  such  other  place  as  Museum  shall  from  time 
to  time  designate  in  a  written  notice  to  Patron  Sponsor. 

16.  All  notices  and  other  instruments  by  Museum  to  Patron  Sponsor  shall  be 
sent  by  registered  mail,  postage  prepaid,  addressed  as  follows : 


35  A&T 


or  to  such  other  addressee  and  such  other  place  as  Patron  Sponsor  may  from 
time  to  time  designate  in  a  written  notice  to  Museum. 

17.  No  rights  \inder  this  Agreement  may  be  assigned  by  Patron  Sponsor  or 
Museum  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  the  other  (except  that  Museum  shall 
have  full  discretion,  pursuant  to  paragraph  7,  in  arranging  for  exhibitions  and, 
pursuant  to  paragraph  9,  in  dealing  with  any  works  of  art  that  it  accepts  by 
way  of  gift).  Subject  to  the  foregoing,  the  covenants  and  agreements  contained 
herein  shall  be  binding  upon  and  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of  Patron  Sponsor 
and  Museum  and  their  respective  successors  and  assigns. 

18.  In  the  event  that  Museum  does  not  obtain  comparable  agreements  from  ten 
Patron  Sponsors  (or  the  equivalent)  on  or  before  June  30,  1968,  Museum  will  refund 
to  Patron  Sponsor  the  unexpended  portion  of  its  initial  $3,500  payment,  this 
Agreement  shall  be  of  no  further  force  or  effect,  and  the  parties  shall  be  released 
from  all  obligations  to  each  other. 

19.  This  Agreement  embodies  the  entire  understanding  between  the  parties 
hereto,  and  no  change,  alteration  or  modification  hereof  may  be  made  except  in 
writing  signed  by  the  party  to  be  charged  thereunder. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto  have  executed  and  delivered  this 
Agreement  this  day  of  ,  I968. 


Patron  Sponsor 
By 

MUSEUM  ASSOCIATES,  INC. 

By 

Kenneth  Donahue 


Appendix  2  36 


AGREEMENT 


IT  IS  HEREBY  AGREED  by  and  between 


(hereinafter  Artist)  and  MUSEUM  ASSOCIATES,  INC.  (hereinafter  Museum) as  follows: 

1.  Museum  operates  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art.  Museum  is  pre- 
sently planning  an  exhibition  tentatively  entitled  "Art  and  Technology"  to  be 
held  at  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art  in  1970  or  1971. 

2.  Artist  desires  to  participate  in  and  assist  Museum  in  the  development 
of  said  exhibition. 

3.  Museum  has  advised  Artist  (a)  that  any  work  of  art  created  in  the 
development  of  said  exhibition  may,  in  the  sole  discretion  of  Museum,  be  deemed 
inappropriate  for  inclusion  in  said  exhibition,  and  (b)  that  Museum  may,  in  its 
sole  discretion,  conclude  that  the  totality  of  works  created  in  the  development 
of  said  exhibition  make  it  inappropriate  to  hold  said  exhibition.  Museimi  agrees 
not  to  exhibit  any  work  the  artist  deems  incomplete  or  not  a  work  of  art. 

4.  Museum  and  artist  have  agreed  upon  an  artistic  project,  which  if  accept- 
able to  a  Patron  Sponsor  or  Sponsor,  will  be  developed  and  executed  at  the 
facility  of  said  Patron  Sponsor  or  Sponsor.  Said  artistic  project  is  set  forth 
in  Exhibit  A  to  this  Agreement  and  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  Artist 
agrees  to  work  diligently  on  said  artistic  project  during  the  time  specified  for 
a  consecutive  or  non-consecutive  period  of  up  to  three  months  if  necessary  for 
completion. 

Mxjseum  will  provide  artist  (a)  one  roundtrip  economy  class  air  ticket  from 
his  residence  to  Los  Angeles;  (b)  for  Artists  who  are  not  residents  of  Los  Angeles, 
reimbursement  for  all  other  travel  expenses  incurred  by  the  Artist  in  connection 
with  this  project,  so  long  as  any  such  travel  arrangements  have  been  made  by  the 


37  A&T 


Museum  and  approved  in  advance  in  writing;   (c)  for  Artists  who  are  not  residents 
of  Los  Angeles,  a  per  diem  of  $20,  to  be  paid  in  installments  of  $1M.0   at  the 
beginning  of  each  week  of  actual  work  in  Los  Angeles j  (d)  a  $250  honorarium  for 
each  week's  actual  work  on  the  project,  to  be  paid  in  installments  of  $500  at 
the  end  of  each  two  weeks  of  work.   The  total  sums  payable  by  the  Museum  to  the 
Artist  under  items  (b),  (c)  and  (d)  shall  not  exceed  $4,800. 

The  foregoing  is  the  only  financial  obligation  of  Museum  to  Artist.  Artist 
acknowledges  that  Museum  is  under  no  other  or  further  obligation  to  Artist  for 
any  debts  or  obligations  incurred  by  Artist,  and  that  Artist  is  an  independent 
contractor,  not  an  employee  or  agent  of  Museimi. 

5.  Museum,  in  its  sole  discretion,  may  select  and  exhibit  at  the  Los  Angeles 
County  Museum  of  Art  any  or  all  works  of  art  created  by  Artist  as  a  result  of 
said  artistic  project.  Said  exhibition  may  be  scheduled  at  any  time  during  the 
year  1970.  In  addition,  Miiseum  may  arrange  for  the  exhibition  of  any  said  works 
of  art  at  other  museums  or  public  exhibitions  in  the  United  States  or  abroad 

at  any  time  until  December  31,  1972.  Artist  will  cooperate  with  Museum  in  any 
such  exhibition  or  exhibitions  and  will  not  display  any  of  said  works  of  art 
before  December  31,  1972  without  the  prior  written  consent  of  Museum,  but  this 
restriction  shall  not  apply  to  any  works  of  the  Artist  which  are  not  selected  for 
exhibition  in  the  Museum's  "Art  and  Technology"  exhibition. 

The  installation  of  the  work  and  supporting  technological  equipment  at  all  of 
such  exhibitions  shall  be  the  sole  responsibility  of  the  Museum.   The  Artist  will 
assist  in  the  installation  of  the  work  at  the  initial  exhibition,  but  he  shall  not 
be  obliged  to  do  so  at  any  subsequent  exhibitions. 

6.  The  principal  work  of  art  created  as  a  consequence  of  the  artistic  project 
will,  at  the  option  of  Patron  Sponsor  and  without  further  payment,  become  the 
property  of  Patron  Sponsor  at  the  conclusion  of  the  exhibition  at  the  Los  Angeles 

2. 


38 


Coimty  Miiseum  of  Art  (or  at  the  time  of  notification  to  Patron  Sponsor  that  said 
work  will  not  be  exhibited).   In  the  event  Patron  Sponsor  does  not  choose  so  to 
acquire  any  such  work,  then  it  will  become  the  property  of  Artist.   If  either 
Patron  Sponsor  or  Artist  wishes  to  make  a  gift  of  said  work  to  Museum,  Museum 
may,  in  its  sole  discretion,  elect  to  accept  or  reject  said  gift. 

7.  In  the  event  of  a  gift  to  Museum  of  any  work  of  art.  Museum  will  retain 
the  option  to  donate  or  lend  said  work  to  any  other  museum  or  public  institution, 
or,  after  a  twenty-five  year  interval,  to  sell  or  otherwise  dispose  of  said  work 
to  anyone.  Museum  will  further  retain  the  right  to  exhibit  or  not  exhibit  any 
such  gift. 

8.  If  Artist  creates  additional  works  of  art  (beyond  the  "principal  work" 
described  in  paragraph  6),  Artist  will  retain  ownership  of  any  such  additional 
works  unless  they  are  an  integral  part  of  said  principal  work,  in  which  case 
their  ownership  will  be  subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  6. 

9.  Museum  will  carry  liability  insurance  on  Artist  during  the  period  that 
Artist  is  working  at  the  facility  of  Patron  Sponsor  or  Sponsor.   During  such  time 
Artist  will  be  regarded  as  a  "consultant"  to  Museum. 

10.  Museum  will  not  insiire  any  works  of  art  produced  in  connection  with  the 
artistic  project,  except  liability  insurance  for  injury  or  damage  caused  by  said 
works  of  art  while  they  are  in  transit  to  or  on  display  at  the  Los  Angeles  County 
Museum  of  Art.  Miiseum  will  repair  any  damage  to  said  works  of  art  while  on 
Museum  premises  which  does  not  result  from  their  normal  functioning  or  ordinary 
wear  and  tear. 

11.  All  arrangements  and  charges  for  the  moving  of  objects  from  Patron  Spon- 
sor's or  Sponsor's  facility  to  the  Los  Angeles  Coiinty  Museum  of  Art  (or  to  other 
museums  or  exhibitions)  and  return  to  point  of  origin  shall  be  the  responsibility 
of  Museum.  Any  moving  anyAfhere  else  shall  be  the  responsibility  of  the  person 


39  A&T 


requesting  said  movement.   If  Artist  becomes  the  owner  of  any  works,  shipment  from 
Patron  Sponsor's  or  Sponsor's  facility  or  from  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of 
Art  is  the  Artist's  obligation  and  must  be  accomplished  promptly  upon  conclusion  of 
said  exhibition  (or  within  30  days  of  the  opening  date  of  the  exhibition  as  to  any 
work  Museum  does  not  include  in  the  exhibition)  or  Artist  will  have  no  fiirther 
rights  to  any  such  work  and  neither  Patron  Sponsor  or  Sponsor  nor  Museum  will  have 
any  obligation  to  return  or  account  for  any  such  work  to  Artist.  Musexmi  agrees  to 
give  Artist  30  days  advance  notice  of  his  obligation  to  remove  any  art  work  to 
which  he  has  received  ownership. 

12.  Artist  agrees  that  any  works  in  the  process  of  creation  or  created  in 
connection  with  the  artistic  project  may  be  photographed  and  reproduced  in  a  cata- 
log, press  releases,  slides  or  other  photographic  materials,  and  that  all  such 
photographic  materials  will  be  the  property  of  Mx:iseum.   Copies  of  the  foregoing 
shall  be  given  to  the  Artist.  Artist  further  agrees  that  all  matters  relating 

to  publicity  for  said  exhibition,  said  artistic  project,  or  Artist's  involvement 
therewith  will  be  under  the  control  of  Museum,  and  that  any  publicity  to  be 
released  by  Artist  must  be  approved  in  advance  by  Museum.  Museum  will  give  Artist 
appropriate  credit  and  recognition  in  any  exhibition  display,  catalog  or  publicity. 

13.  If  Artist  resides  outside  the  United  States,  Artist  agrees  to  obtain, 
before  coming  to  Los  Angeles  and  at  his  sole  expense,  a  temporary  visa  and  work 
permit  as  well  as  legal  liability  insurance  classifying  artist  as  a  "Consultant". 

li+.  All  notices  and  other  instruments  which  may  be  or  are  required  to  be  given 

or  made  by  Artist  or  Museum  to  each  other  shall  be  in  writing.  All  notices  and 

other  instruments  by  Artist  to  Museum  shall  be  sent  by  registered  mail,  postage 

prepaid,  addressed  as  follows: 

Kenneth  Donahue,  Director 

Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art 

5905  Wilshire  Boulevard 

Los  Angeles,  California  9003 6 

4. 


40 


or  to  such  other  addressee  and  to  such  other  place  as  M\iseum  shall  from  time  to 
time  designate  in  a  written  notice  to  Artist. 

15.  All  notices  and  other  instr\jments  by  Museum  to  Artist  shall  be  sent  by- 
registered  mail,  postage  prepaid,  addressed  as  follows: 


or  to  such  other  addressee  and  such  other  place  as  Artist  may  from  time  to  time 
designate  in  a  written  notice  to  Museum. 

16.  No  rights  under  this  Agreement  may  be  assigned  by  Artist  or  Museum  with- 
out the  prior  written  consent  of  the  other  (except  that  Museum  shall  have  full 
discretion,  pursuant  to  paragraph  5,  in  arranging  for  exhibitions  and,  pursuant 
to  paragraph  7,  in  dealing  with  any  works  of  art  that  it  accepts  by  way  of  gift). 
Subject  to  the  foregoing,  the  covenants  and  agreements  contained  herein  shall  be 
binding  upon  and  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of  Artist  and  Museum  and  their 
respective  successors  and  assigns. 

17.  This  Agreement  embodies  the  entire  understanding  between  the  parties 
hereto,  and  no  change,  alteration  or  modification  hereof  may  be  made  except  in 
writing  signed  by  the  party  to  be  charged  thereunder. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto  have  executed  and  delivered  this 
Agreement  this  day  of  ,  I969. 


Artist 
By 


MUSEUM  ASSOCIATES,   INC, 

By 


Kenneth  Donahue 


A&T 


Thoughts  on  Art  and  Technology 

Jane  Livingston 


A&T 


Art  and  Technology  hias  had  as  one  of  its  first  premises 
the  assumption  that  it  is  possible,  and  perhaps  valuable, 
to  effect  a  practical  interchange  between  artists  and 
members  of  the  corporate-industrial  society.  The  various 
cultural  attitudes  surrounding  such  a  premise  are  deeply 
ambivalent.  On  virtually  every  level,  including  the  popu- 
larly shared  ideas  and  fears  about  the  influence  of  "ad- 
vanced technology"  on  the  life  of  the  masses,  as  well  as 
the  many  subtle  analyses  of  writers  and  critics  evaluating 
the  relationships  between  art,  or  the  humanities,  and 
technology,  qualities  of  emotionalism  and  partisanship 
prevail. 

Without  delving  extensively  into  recent  historical  ante- 
cedents to  some  contemporary  aspects  of  the  art/tech- 
nology issue,  one  or  two  skeletal  observations  are  called 
for.  The  attempts  to  embrace  a  socialist  technology  by 
the  Russian  Constructivists  and  by  the  Italian  Futurists, 
during  the  early  part  of  this  century,  were  guided  by  a 
U':opian  (if  nominally  iconoclastic)  view  of  progressive 
technology,  but  did  not  fully  succeed  in  transcending  a 
romantic  and  somewhat  anachronistic  level  of  awareness 
on  the  part  of  its  exponents.  The  Constructivist  and 
Futurist  artists  seldom  achieved  Internal  stylistic  mani- 
festations of  new  technology,  but  instead  represented 
the  appearances  of  industrial/mechanical  things.  A  seri- 
ous ideological  limitation  holds  also  for  the  Bauhaus 
precept  regarding  the  relation  of  art  to  technology,  in  as 
much  as  technology  was  equated  with  craft;  one  might  say 
that  the  Bauhaus  theorists  were  aiming  to  reduce  art  to 
craft,  in  a  sense,  and  reversing  the  proposition,  that  the 
role  of  organized  technology  would  be  to  elevate  craft  to 
art.  The  impulse  which  informed  the  Bauhaus  rationale 
and  its  antecedents  in  European  Constructivism  toward  a 
socialization  of  art  in  a  public  context  has  developed  to 
the  present  time,  but  insofar  as  it  survives  in  its  original 
spirit  has  to  an  extent  continued  to  remain  identified 
with  a  European  sensibility.  Victor  Vasarely's  conviction 
that  art  should  evolve  out  of  its  traditionally  aristocratic, 
"unique  object"  framework  and  be  mass-produced  for 
public  consumption  is  an  extension  of  a  classically 
Bauhaus  idea.  (A  certain  reaction  to  the  "precious  object 
syndrome"  has  certainly  become  a  part  of  the  American 
art  scene  in  the  60's  and  early  70's,  but  is  manifested  in 
approaches  which  generally  differ  in  kind  from  that  of 
Vasarely.) 

To  some  extent,  artists  currently  are  discouraged  from 
engaging  in  "collusive"  relationships  with  organized 
technological  concerns  by  pressures  from  the  intellec- 
tual/critical circles  of  which  they  are  inescapably  a  part. 
The  contemporary  pressures,  both  internal  and  external, 
against  collaborative  activity  between  artists  and  indus- 
try are  of  two  sorts;  first  there  is  antitechnological  senti- 
ment on  political  grounds  and  second,  there  can  be 
argued  substantial  precedent  militating  against  common- 
ly held  images  of  "technological  art"  on  esthetic 


grounds.  I  shall  deal  here  more  extensively  with  the  sec- 
ond than  the  first  factor.  My  thought  is  to  point  selec- 
tively to  a  few  components  of  what  is  an  intricately 
complex  subject.  With  reference  to  the  overtly  political 
question,  the  fact  is  that,  despite  a  certain  amount  of 
reluctance  by  some  of  the  artists  we  dealt  with  through 
Art  and  Technology  to  participate  with  "war-oriented" 
industries  for  reasons  of  moral  objection,  there  were  no 
final  refusals  to  participate  in  the  program  on  this 
ground  alone. 

The  question  of  esthetics  in  relation  to  technological/in- 
dustrial art  works  is  bound  up  with  certain  attitudes 
about  collective  artistic  activity.  These  attitudes  devolve 
naturally  upon  several  definable  antitheses. 

One  of  the  fundamental  dualisms  inherent  in  the  ques- 
tion of  technology's  uses  in  a  humanist  context  has  to 
do  with  the  conflict  between  the  belief  that,  in  a  word, 
technology  Is  the  metaphysics  of  this  century,  and  there- 
fore has  to  be  accommodated  from  within,  and  the  view 
that  technology  is  somehow  self-perpetuating,  implac- 
able and  essentially  inhuman,  and  that  therefore  human- 
ist and  artistic  endeavor  must  function  separated  from  it 
and  even  in  opposition  to  it.  Nearly  all  the  positions 
taken  by  artists  and  by  their  scientific  counterparts  with 
respect  to  the  art/technology  relationship  are  condi- 
tioned by  one  or  the  other  of  these  antithetical  beliefs. 

An  increasingly  prevalent  concern  of  many  artists  and 
scientists  is  to  overcome  the  traditional  and  presumably 
obsolete  separation  of  academic  and  professional  disci- 
plines. Systems  analysis,  with  its  assumption  that  only 
by  starting  from  an  interdisciplinary  or  total-context 
approach  can  social  institutions  be  made  to  operate  pro- 
ductively, provides  procedural  methods  and  models  for 
such  reform.  In  principle,  the  espousing  of  a  systems 
esf/iet/c— illustrated  preeminently  under  Art  and  Tech- 
nology in  the  Irwin/Turrell/Garrett  Corporation  endeav- 
or—represents a  less  rhetorical  theory  than  any  (includ- 
ing the  Constructivist,  Bauhaus  and  "socialized  art" 
manifestations)  which  has  preceded  it.  It  implies  the 
grasp  of  a  powerfully  efficacious  means  for  revolution- 
izing art  within  the  total  cultural  setting.  (Jack  Burnham 
gives  an  extended  analysis  of  what  I  am  terming  a  sys- 
tems esthetic  throughout  his  book  Beyond  Modern 
Sculpture,  Braziller,  1969.) 

Although  the  "systems-conscious"  attitude  is  increasing- 
ly felt  to  influence  artists  of  various  persuasions,  cer- 
tainly including  some  of  the  artists  who  worked  in  Art 
and  Technology,  it  is  not  by  any  means  a  shared  attitude 
among  all  or  most  artists.  One  of  the  characterizing  sen- 
timents expressed  by  both  those  artists  and  scientist/en- 
gineers who  are  resistive  to  an  information  or  systems 
esthetic,  has  to  do  with  a  suspicion  harbored  by  virtually 
everyone  at  times  that  we  are  all  victims  of  a  techno- 


44 


cratic  macrostructure  over  which  no  one  or  no  institu- 
tion has  real  control.  In  the  light  of  this  inescapably 
sinister  possibility,  the  traditional  privilege  enjoyed  by 
the  artist  to  function  independently,  and  to  remain,  in  a 
sense,  one  of  the  last  freelance  agents  in  society,  is  not 
easily  relinquished. 

A  natural  outcome  of  an  artistic/technological  endeavor 
which  employs  a  systems  philosophy  might  be  an  art 
which  conditions  human  sense  perception  and  radically 
sensitizes  people.  Along  with  this  might  develop  possibil- 
ities for  esthetic  forms  that  would  in  effect  cultivate  and 
enrich  the  "man-made"  nature  which  has  already  re- 
placed nature  to  such  a  remarkable  degree.  For  those 
who  firmly  believe  that  society  is  undergoing  a  gradual 
but  radical  reshaping  of  patterns  of  consciousness,  the 
changes  predicted  as  issuing  from  a  generation  of  drug- 
users  and  the  increasing  body  of  Western  initiates  into 
the  various  Eastern  meditative  practices  appear  to  repre- 
sent an  inevitable  and  potentially  corrective  metamor- 
phosis. Artists  who  wish  to  explore  the  means  and  conse- 
quences of  perception-expansion  need  specialized 
information;  and,  reciprocally,  scientists  gain  insight 
from  artists  in  this  enterprise.  Both  parties  might  main- 
tain that  anything  less  than  directly  "manipulating" 
human  sensory  response  to  advance  new  esthetic  terms 
constitutes  merely  a  superficial  elaboration  of  existing 
esthetic  conventions. 

Again,  in  reaction  to  this  kind  of  pursuit,  with  its  poten- 
tial for  subliminal  coercion,  there  are  many  artists  who 
unequivocally  eschew  this  kind  of  activity.  I  have  heard 
the  area  of  "systems"  or  "information"  esthetics  dis- 
missed as  a  "Fascist  game." 


Seen  against  most  recent  efforts  in  the  area  of  techno- 
logical art,  which  are  generally  identified  with  electronic 
light  and  sound  media,  the  results  of  Art  and  Technol- 
ogy are  unlike  anything  we  could  have  predicted.  They 
far  transcend  the  genre  of  work  ordinarily  called  to  mind 
by  "tech  art."  Owing  to  the  great  variety  of  techniques 
and  processes  and  materials  made  available  by  the  cor- 
porations contracted  with  us,  the  program  issued  in  not 
one  esthetic  type  of  work,  but  in  several. 


A  longer  tradition  attaches  to  the  first  category  of  activ- 
ity than  to  any  other  manner  of  endeavor  undertaken 
through  Art  and  Technology.  Sculptors  have  for  cen- 
turies enlisted  the  assistance  of  heavy  industrial  methods 
and  materials  to  make  monumental  works.  Yet  we  have 
observed  a  significantly  greater  sense  of  anxiety  and 
discernibly  more  recalcitrance  on  the  part  of  those  art- 
ists engaged  in  industrial  execution  than  has  been  con- 
veyed by  the  artists  using  advanced  scientific  media. 
Oldenburg,  KItaj,  Fahlstrom  and  Tony  Smith  all  experi- 
enced some  amount  of  frustration,  and  expressed  occa- 
sional skepticism,  during  the  course  of  their  projects. 
(Oldenburg's  enumeration  on  page  269  of  "comparative 
attributes"  between  the  qualities  required  of  the  studio 
versus  the  technological  artist  distills  the  substance  of 
these  doubts.)  The  special  difficulty  for  artists  depend- 
ing upon  industrial  execution  relies  on  the  fact  that 
they  have  usually  in  the  past  worked  alone  and  thus 
carefully  controlled  every  stage  and  every  nuance  of 
their  works'  making;  thus  the  intervention  of  middle- 
men, not  only  handling  the  components  but  making 
occasional  technical  decisions,  is  difficult  to  accept.  The 
artist  under  these  circumstances  is  automatically  placed 
at  a  greater  remove  from  the  process  of  execution  than 
would  follow  if  his  esthetic  end  required  a  process  of 
developmental  research  in  close  communication  with  a 
technical  counterpart.  These  artists  found  themselves 
coping  rather  frequently  with  a  command  chain  of  bu- 
reaucratic procedure.  Possibly  for  just  the  reason  that 
neither  the  artist  nor  the  Museum  was  a  paying  client  of 
the  various  corporations,  the  art  projects  were  not  given 
especially  high  priority,  and  thus  often  moved  forward 
at  an  exasperatingly  slow  pace.  In  short,  a  definite  cum- 
bersomeness  attended  the  several  ambitious  industrial 
collaborations.  But  even  given  these  natural  adversities, 
something  remarkable  happened.  Smith,  Oldenburg  and 
Fahlstrom  all  saw  the  realization  of  artistic  inventions  of 
the  grandiose  type  which  generally  never  exist  beyond 
sketches  or  models.  Oldenburg's  Icebag  and  Smith's  cave 
sculpture  especially  represent  critical  milestones  in  their 
respective  careers.  Fahlstrom  and  Kitaj  both  established 
rapport  with  the  specialized  craftsmen  who  built  their 
tableaux.  One  would  not  expect  these  artists  necessarily 
to  make  a  career  of  collaborative  endeavor,  but  unques- 
tionably they  and  other  artists  would  utilize  more  often 
than  has  been  possible  the  resources  of  industry  were 
they  more  readily  available. 


On  reviewing  the  development  of  Art  and  Technology, 
three  kinds  of  collaborative  experience  seem  to  me  dis- 
tinguishable. First  there  is  the  approach  taken  by  those 
artists  interested  basically  in  industrial  or  industrial- 
mechanical  fabrication.  Second  is  that  relating  to  the  use 
of  more  esoteric  technological  media;  and  finally,  that 
marked  by  a  participatory,  informational  esthetic  with- 
out primary  regard  for  object-making. 


In  the  context  of  heavy  industrial  fabrication  it  is  worth 
considering  the  approach  taken  by  Richard  Serra  at 
Kaiser.  Serra  regarded  the  availability  of  Kaiser's  steel- 
producing  plant  as  an  opportunity  basically  to  experi- 
ment in  huge  scale.  In  using  the  company's  formidable 
scrap  resources  and  men  and  equipment  he  did  not  at- 
tempt primarily  to  come  away  with  a  permanent,  or  a 
transportable  art  work,  but  instead  to  learn  what  he 
could  in  a  few  weeks'  time  about  making  sculpture  com- 


45 


A&T 


prising  thousands  of  tons,  rather  than  pounds,  of 
material. 

Roy  Lichtenstein's  film  project  certainly  does  not  be- 
long in  the  class  of  industrially  fabricated  art  works,  but 
neither  was  it  conceived  in  a  spirit  of  philosophical  com- 
mitment to  the  principles  of  technological  or  industrial 
coaction.  He  expressed  even  more  strongly  than  the 
foregoing  artists  an  attitude  of  real  doubt  and  hesitation 
about  his  very  association  with  the  Art  and  Technology 
program.  Lichtenstein,  like  many  other  artists  in  Art  and 
Technology,  has  repeatedly  worked  in  a  collaborative 
manner  in  his  various  printmaking  and  multiple  sculp- 
ture series.  The  making  of  a  lithograph,  for  example,  is 
an  operation  requiring  an  intensive  cooperation  between 
at  least  two  people.  Lichtenstein's  engagement  in  the 
cinematic  project  undertaken  with  us  was  not,  it  seems 
to  me,  very  different  in  essence  from  his  manner  of 
working  to  produce  prints  and  multiples.  It  is  true  that 
he  (or  indeed  any  other  artist)  has  never  before  utilized 
cinematic  technique  in  precisely  the  way  he  did  in  this 
endeavor;  and  certainly  the  technical  difficulties  and 
expense  inherent  in  his  Art  and  Technology  film  project 
were  far  greater  than  are  ordinarily  entailed  by  print- 
making  methods.  Nevertheless,  Lichtenstein  determined 
early  exactly  what  he  was  after  in  the  cinematic  works, 
and  once  he  had  established  his  criteria  he  strove  mostly 
to  refine  and  perfect  the  quality  of  the  images  much  as 
he  would  in  making  lithographs. 

A  second  general  category  of  work  done  under  Art  and 
Technology  includes  those  artists,  like  Robert  Whitman, 
Newton  Harrison,  Rockne  Krebs  and  Boyd  Mefferd  who 
sought  to  exploit  the  kinds  of  techniques  ordinarily 
regarded  as  typifying  advanced  technology.  The  ap- 
proach taken  by  such  artists  necessarily  depends  to  a 
greater  or  lesser  degree  on  a  working  relationship  with 
engineering  specialists  whose  expertise  they  themselves 
could  not  acquire  without  years  of  research  and  training; 
it  often  depends  as  well  on  the  equipment  and  labora- 
tory facilities  available  only  in  large  corporations.  In 
using  media  such  as  lasers,  advanced  mirror  optic  sys- 
tems or  gas  plasmas,  artists  are  venturing  into  areas 
which  are  without  much  esthetic  history.  However,  in 
evaluating  such  art  works,  it  seems  to  be  the  case  that 
the  more  directly  and  the  more  purely  the  medium  is 
handled,  and  the  less  the  artist  relies  on  extraneous  hous- 
ings, the  better  the  result.  It  was  our  conscious  intention 
to  include  in  Art  and  Technology  artists  whose  past 
production  specifically  in  the  domain  of  advanced 
technology  conformed  to  this  evaluative  guideline  and 
the  works  accomplished  by  them  with  us  are  commen- 
surately  remarkable. 

There  was  an  important  element  of  simple  luck  involved 
in  locating  individual  scientists  and  engineers,  within  the 
vastness  of  all  these  companies,  who  desired  to  enter 


into  prolonged  collaboration  with  an  artist.  Art  and 
Technology  was  not,  after  all,  a  situation  like  the  one 
structured  by  E.A.T,  through  which  engineers  so  in- 
clined voluntarily  make  themselves  available  to  consult 
with  artists.  Once  those  fortunate  connections  were 
made,  the  several  advanced  technology  projects  set  in 
motion  were  characterized  by  a  strong  sense  of  mutual 
commitment.  The  artists  consistently  demonstrated 
qualities  of  pragmatism,  efficiency  and  singleness  of 
purpose  toward  the  end  of  realizing  their  projects.  We 
sensed  in  these  exchanges  very  little  communicative 
difficulty  on  the  practical,  one-to-one  level  of  exchange. 

There  are  by  now  several  American  artists  who  can  be 
considered  fairly  experienced  in  the  field  of  collabora- 
tion with  engineers.  Robert  Whitman  stands  out  in  this 
connection;  so  does  Robert  Rauschenberg,  though  he 
has  of  course  continued  to  work  "traditionally"  as  well. 
Experience  in  dealing  closely  with  technical  personnel  in 
making  art  probably  does  give  an  artist  a  certain  advan- 
tage in  expediting  the  progress  of  a  given  undertaking. 
But  interestingly  enough,  those  artists  inexperienced  at 
collaboration  with  scientists,  such  as  Harrison,  Jesse 
Reichek  and  Jackson  MacLow,  worked  equally 
effectively. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  use  of  technological  media 
by  artists  has  not  by  any  means  always  implied  inter- 
dependency  with  scientists  or  engineers.  Both  Krebs  and 
Mefferd,  for  instance,  have  in  the  past  accomplished 
much  of  their  work  unassisted,  finding  out  on  their  own 
about  their  equipment  and  its  potential  by  reading,  ex- 
perimenting and  consulting  only  occasionally  with  man- 
ufacturers or  engineers.  One  of  the  principal  benefits  of 
Art  and  Technology  for  an  artist  like  Krebs  was  the  great 
speeding  up  of  information  accession  made  possible  by 
his  contact  with  corporation  personnel;  he  conveyed 
great  excitement  about  the  "luxury"  of  being  offered 
instant  access  to  data  and  expertise  it  would  have  taken 
years  to  acquire  on  his  own.  This  sort  of  advantage  was 
given  similarly  to  Harrison,  Whitman,  MacLow  and 
Reichek,  but  has  so  far  been  largely  denied  Mefferd  for 
whom  we  never  really  found  the  fortuitous  personal 
connection. 

There  is  little  doubt  that  a  number  of  serious  artists  will 
continue  to  assimilate  technical  knowledge  and  will 
evolve  an  increasingly  sophisticated  and  refined  body  of 
technologically-oriented  works  of  art.  It  is,  however, 
open  to  question  whether  or  not  this  development  will 
find  sustained  impetus  from  organized  corporation  sup- 
port or  must  tend  to  rely  perennially  on  the  contingen- 
cies of  sporadic  intervention  by  scientists  and  the  deter- 
mined self-education  of  artists. 

In  considering  a  third  order  of  artist-corporation  inter- 
change in  Art  and  Technology  no  inclusive  term  or  con- 


46 


cept  suffices  to  define  the  situations  being  encompassed. 
A  few  artists  shared  an  attitude  which  is  distinguishable 
from  the  ascendant,  short-term  concerns  of  the  others. 
These  artists  from  the  outset  wished  to  investigate  a 
psychological  or  experiential  mode  of  act\\i\t\  primari- 
ly, instead  of  occupying  themselves  fixedly  with  tech- 
nics. Two  assumptions  are,  in  retrospect,  implicit  in 
these  artists'  projects.  One  is  that  the  function  of  gather- 
ing and  exchanging  information  is  important  as  an  end  in 
itself;  the  other  is  that  participation  should  be  made 
self-aware  and  be  used  as  a  form  of  esthetic  endeavor. 
Behind  these  assumptions  may  lie  another  one— that 
there  potentially  exists  in  any  collaborative  situation 
between  scientists  and  artists  a  special  dynamic,  and  that 
if  the  particular  conflicts  and  sympathies  inherent  in  this 
dynamic  can  be  made  to  surface,  one  can  learn  and  state 
and  do  something  with  them.  The  artists  referred  to  here 
further  may  be  said  to  have  regarded  the  people  with 
whom  they  dealt  as  themselves  "media,"  rather  than 
viewing  them  as  personnel,  or  as  simply  parts  of  a  larger 
machine  dedicated  to  the  end  of  engineering  and  fabricat- 
ing systems  or  objects. 


element  of  participation  came  to  issue  in  a  startlingly 
literal  way.  Warhol  agreed  to  design  a  work  incorpora- 
ting Cowles'  3-D  printing  process.  But  he  ended  by 
acting  really  as  a  kind  of  legitimizing  aegis  for  the 
enterprise  rather  than  its  sole  author  and  designer. 
Although  he  conceived  the  work's  basic  structure,  he 
then  proceeded  to  function  as  an  agent,  prompting 
crucial  involvement  in  actual  esthetic  decision-making 
phases  by  his  technical  colleagues  and  even  by  ourselves. 
Despite  the  fact  that  his  piece  at  Expo  was  a  disting- 
uished, if  somewhat  bizarre,  work  of  art,  the  object  itself 
was  in  some  ways  less  important  than  what  it  represen- 
ted of  the  multilateral  esthetic  participation  behind  its 
creation.  In  a  sense  Warhol  has  not  done  anything 
fundamentally  unprecedented  through  the  program:  he 
has  for  years  used  technique  unofficially,  as  it  were;  it  is 
after  all  Warhol  who,  more  than  any  other  artist,  made 
respectable  commercial  methods  for  art  making  such  as 
inexpensive  screen-printing  techniques. 


The  Robert  Irwin/James  Turrell/Garrett  Corporation 
project  is  the  preeminent  example  under  Art  and  Tech- 
nology of  an  endeavor  based  on  a  directly  systems- 
conscious  premise.  Irwin,  Turrell  and  the  scientist  Dr.  Ed 
Wortz  have  not  only  made  it  their  business  to  explore 
and  assess  the  dynamics  of  their  interchange,  but  were 
explicitly  engaged  in  researching  aspects  of  perceptual 
psychology.  Their  mutual  investigations  were  not  ter- 
minated at  the  end  of  an  arbitrarily  set  time  interval,  but 
have  continued  organically  to  develop.  John 
Chamberlain  at  Rand  and  James  Byars  at  the  Hudson 
Institute  set  about  to  establish  participatory  events;  both 
in  a  high  spirit  of  "unofficial  playfulness"  proclaimed 
themselves  as  gatherers  of  information.  They  made 
themselves  subtly  effective  catalysts  in  a  process  of  evok- 
ing attitudes.  The  compilations  of  actual  "data"  re- 
sulting from  their  efforts,  in  contradistinction  to  those 
accumulated  in  the  course  of  the  Irwin/Turrell/Wortz 
researches,  are  poetic  and  inconclusive:  they  do  not  at 
all  reveal  the  dense  complex  of  occurrences  stimulated 
through  the  respective  processes  of  obtaining  them.  Both 
Byars  and  Chamberlain  treated  their  periods  of  residence 
in  two  of  the  nation's  leading  think-tanks  as  self- 
validating,  purely  participatory  events.  The  work  ac- 
complished together  by  Jesse  Reichek  and  IBM's  physi- 
cist Jack  Citron  represents  a  consummate  prototype  for 
a  truly  informational  exchange.  Reichek  and  Citron 
succeeded  in  organizing  a  computer  program  which  func- 
tions as  a  powerful  image-producing  tool.  Both  would 
confirm  that  the  principles  involved  in  their  discoveries 
transcend  any  immediate  results  materializing  from 
them. 

With  Andy  Warhol  at  Cowles  Communications,  the 


The  concept  of  unofficialness  in  the  artist's  mode  of 
working  with  corporate  technology  is  of  pivotal  conse- 
quence to  the  overall  dynamics  of  Art  and  Technology. 
It  corresponds  immanently  to  the  notion  of  what  may 
be  termed  a  participatory  esthetic. 


Wylie  Sypher,  in  his  book  Literature  and  Technology: 
The  Alien  Vision,  (Random  House,  1968;  pp.  177;  216; 
249)  speaks  of  the  state  of  "alienation"  and  "maladjust- 
ment" faced  by  technological  personnel  on  every  level  in 
our  society.  He  suggests  that  the  goal  priorities  assumed 
within  the  corporate  job  structure  run  counter  to  the 
positive  nature  of  technological  endeavor,  which  is  in- 
nately a  form  o^ play  and  participation.  The  artist,  who 
has  maintained  his  traditional  "prerogative  to  use  science 
and  technique  unofficially,"  might  become  a  catalyst 
toward  the  end  of  humanizing  technique.  Though 
Sypher's  contentions  in  the  abstract  too  far  overreach 
the  practical  sense  of  what  occurred  through  Art  and 
Technology  to  extrapolate  here  in  extenso,  his  hypo- 
theses offer  the  single  point  of  correlation  uniting  every 
artist  who  worked  with  us.  Each  of  them— some  more 
overtly  than  others— approached  their  various  projects 
with  a  sense  o^  playfulness,  or  "unofficialness."  It  was 
their  option  to  serve  in  multifarious  ways  as  humanizing 
agents. 

One  thing  none  of  us  foresaw  when  we  embarked  on  Art 
and  Technology  was  what  now  amounts  to  a  nearly 
unanimous  disregard  for  permanent,  officially  installed 
art  monuments.  If  many  of  the  corporations  initially 
hoped  their  participation  would  result  in  an  icon  repre- 
senting their  products  and  able  to  be  owned  and  dis- 
played by  them,  those  hopes  were  unfulfilled.  The  signif- 


47 


A&T 


icant  fact  is  that  the  companies  did  not  insist  upon  pro- 
prietary rights  to  the  works  made— and  usually  the 
proposals  accepted  by  them  for  realization  were  known 
beforehand  to  be  inappropriate  for  such  purposes.  The 
program  did  not  become  or  even  threaten  to  become  a 
vehicle  for  commissioned  works  of  art.  If  anything,  the 
artists  were  more  concerned  than  the  companies  to  come 
away  with  a  finished  work— yet  most  of  the  artists  made 
works  transitory  by  definition. 

The  development  of  the  various  experimental  inter- 
changes in  Art  and  Technology  was  on  the  whole  a  poly- 
morphous, discursive  and  nonorganic  process.  Indeed  it 
now  appears  simply  that  the  relationship  between  artists 
and  technological  corporations  is  an  intrinsically  non- 
organic one— at  least  on  an  a  priori  basis.  The  circum- 


stance of  corporation  involvement  in  Art  and  Technol- 
ogy failed  to  embody  a  unified  patronal  ethic  compa- 
rable to  that  kind  of  already  "humanized,"  and 
standardized,  morality  inherent  in  past  systems  of  Aca- 
demic sponsorship.  Concomitantly,  the  artist— in  the  by 
now  established  absence  of  either  academic  or  avant- 
garde  provinces— is  startlingly  free  from  imposed  sanc- 
tions. Contrary  to  the  myth  of  the  "corporate  image," 
there  is  seen  to  be  no  programmatic  framework  in  the 
present  condition  of  corporation  patronage  to  support 
an  official  art  of  any  description.  A  situation  allowing 
room  for  play  and  participation— the  latter  term  denot- 
ing a  mode  of  activity  in  which  inheres  a  self-sufficient 
esthetic  statement— is  established  through  the  paradoxi- 
cal open-endedness  of  the  present  state  of  corporate  life. 
The  artist  retains  his  options. 


48 


49 


Participating  Artists 


A&T 


50  Stephen  Antonakos 

50  Avigdor  Arikha 

52  Michael  Asher 

53  John  Baldessari 

53  lain  Baxter 

54  Larry  Bell 

55  Max  Bill 

55  Ronald  Bladen 

56  George  Brecht 
58  James  Byars 

67  Greg  Card 

68  Anthony  Caro 

68  John  Chamberlain 

78  Christo 

79  Ron  Cooper 

80  Frangois  Dallegret 

81  Channa  Davis 

82  Ron  Davis 

82  Walter  de  Maria 

85  Mark  di  Suvero 

86  Jean  Dubuffet 
95  Jean  Dupuy 

101  Frederick  Eversley 

102  Oyvind  Fahlstrom 

114  Dan  Flavin 

115  Sam  Francis 

116  Hans  Haacke 
118  Newton  Harrison 

126  Erich  Hartmann 

127  Robert  Irwin 

143  Donald  Judd 

144  Aleksandra  Kasuba 
146  Ellsworth  Kelly 

146  Philip  King 

147  R.  B.  Kitaj 

164  Piotr  Kowalski 

165  Rockne  Krebs 
186  Wesley  Duke  Lee 


193 

Les  Levine 

194 

Roy  Lichtenstein 

200 

Len  Lye 

201 

Jackson  MacLow 

224 

Robert  Mallary 

224 

Charles  Mattox 

225 

John  McCracken 

225 

Glenn  McKay 

226 

Boyd  Mefferd 

236 

Michael  Moore 

238 

Robert  Morris 

240 

Bruce  Nauman 

241 

Claes  Oldenburg 

270 

Jules  Olitski 

272 

Eduardo  Paolozzi 

274 

Otto  Piene 

275 

Pulsa 

276 

Jeff  Raskin 

279 

Robert  Rauschenberg 

289 

Jesse  Relchek 

296 

Vjencenslav  Richter 

297 

James  Rosenquist 

297 

James  Seawright 

298 

Richard  Serra 

306 

Tony  Smith 

320 

Robert  Smithson 

322 

Karlheinz  Stockhausen 

324 

Takis 

326 

Gerhard  Trommer 

327 

James  Turrell 

327 

Victor  Vasarely 

329 

Stephan  Von  Huene 

329 

Peter  Voulkos 

330 

Andy  Warhol 

338 

Robert  Watts 

338 

Martial  Westburg 

340 

Robert  Whitman 

359 

William  T.Wiley 

Stephen  Antonakos 

Born  Southern  Greece,  1926 
Resident  New  York  City 


Avigdor  Arikha 

Born  Bukovina,  U.S.S.R.,  1929 
Resident  Paris  and  Jerusalem 


50 


On  November  22,  1968,  after  reading  the  first  A  &  T  press 
release,  Stephen  Antonakos  wrote  us  and  expressed  a  desire 
to  participate  in  the  program.  In  March  of  1969  the  artist 
sent  the  following  project  proposal: 

The  basic  look  of  this  unit  will  be  a  10'  by  20'  area  made 
of  3,000  tubes,  each  4'  long.  The  entire  area  will  be  over- 
head, the  bottom  surface  of  the  tubes  ending  about  7' 
from  the  floor,  or  1'  above  your  head. 

A  practically  identical  area  will  be  beneath  your  feet. 
You  will  be  separated  from  it  by  a  plastic  floor,  although 
no  such  'ceiling'  will  be  present  between  you  and  the 
tubes  overhead.  All  the  tubes  will  be  red,  and  they  will 
all  be  vertical,  so  you  will  be  engulfed  with  3,000  tubes 
hanging  down  over  your  head  and  3,000  tubes  projecting 
up  under  your  feet. 

Neon  was  the  first  obvious  choice  for  these  tubes,  but 
with  neon,  contact  with  electric  current  is  needed  at 
both  ends,  so  the  tubes  would  have  a  'U'  shaped,  or 
double  vertical  shape.  This  is  not  what  I  wanted  for  this 
piece,  but  just  one  single  vertical  rod:  a  single  aggressive 
thrust.  Since  I  cannot  use  neon,  I  would  hope  to  work 
with  some  large  electrical  company  such  as  Westinghouse 
or  G.E.,  to  try  to  develop  a  4'  or  5'  tube  (something  like 
a  fluorescent  tube)  with  an  electrical  contact  at  one  end 
and  just  the  round  glass  end  at  the  other.  Something  like 
this  has  been  developed  in  Europe,  and  I  think  this  could 
be  worked  out  here. 


In  October,  1968,  Avigdor  Arikha  wrote  to  MT  at  our  re- 
quest proposing  to  make  a  labyrinthine  environment,  main- 
ly of  mirror  and  polarized  glass.  There  was  no  participating 
company  equipped  to  do  this  kind  of  research  and  con- 
struction. In  August,  1970  Arikha  sent  us  the  following 
elaborated  proposal  with  sketches: 

Project  For  An  Environmental  Structure  (Labyrinth)  to 

be  erected  in  a  park  or  public  garden 

The  idea: 

A  labyrinthal  structure  composed  from  without  by  black 
and  white  shapes  and  from  within  by  a  series  of  color- 
zones.  The  outside  will  be  composed  by  two  elements: 
the  blackest  black  and  the  brightest  white— a  sort  of  a 
non-reflective  mirror.  The  inside  will  be  constituted  by 
zones  (rooms)  made  of  pure  color  and  following  each 
other  in  a  rhythmic  order,  from  cold  to  warm,  from 
warm  to  cold,  from  dark  to  light,  from  black  to  color, 
from  color  to  white.  The  spaces  of  those  zones  are  to  be 
of  different  dimensions  and  will  be  conceived  like  music, 
each  dimension  corresponding  to  a  tempo,  and  each 
tempo  being  contradicted  or  heightened  by  a  color.  Each 
zone  (room)  will  be  made  of  one  color,  all  around, 
ceiling  and  floor. 

The  materials: 

Outside,  the  shapes  which  will  constitute  the  outer  walls 
will  have  to  be  cast  or  cut  as  whole  shapes  and  assem- 
bled. The  material  should  be  mat,  the  black  being  the 
blackest  black  and  the  white,  a  non-reflective  mirror. 
They  could  be  made  of  a  composite-material  which 
could  be  laminated  (downwards  profile  for  the  black, 
upwards  for  the  white)  in  order  to  increase  its  intensity. 
(It  could  be  made  of  a  resin-glass?)  The  inside  color- 
zones  could  be  obtained  chemically  and  included  in  the 
building-material.  In  this  case,  it  may  be  possible  to  cast 
the  rooms  one  by  one  in  a  composite,  sound-proof  and 
fire-proof  material. 


Conclusion:  The  black  and  white  outdoors  will  be  the 
monumental  part,  a  sort  of  a  'guardian'  of  the  labyrinth 
itself  (the  attraction  of  black  and  white  in  a  colorful 
garden  being  obvious).  The  labyrinth  will  permit  wander- 
ing and  passages  through  various  intensities,  which 
should  allow  the  walker  a  'color-bath'  and  a  contrasted 
experience. 


51 


A&T 


u\ii)^i/ij/:  OU-0-ij>6 


r: 


-iJ^-:< 


./' 


P^zr^TfP^  /^»^^-  7^  ^^<^,;^  ^^ssy-^s*^  <'»/7^ 


,^Cia&^  /-loo 


MY 


/¥^} 


■st^/fLe--  /-  /oo 


(Uctni/yCi^. 


(^fRoVlSoKy  P^HJB^ 


Michael  Asher 

Born  Los  Angeles,  1943 

Resident  Venice,  California 


52 


in  the  early  stages  of  our  planning  for  A  &  T,  during  the  fall 
of  1968,  we  had  several  discussions  with  young  Los  Angeles 
artist  Michael  Asher  about  doing  a  project  with  Hughes  Air- 
craft. Asher  had  for  several  months  been  consulting  inde- 
pendently with  Hughes  engineer  Alex  Jacobson,  of  the 
company's  Exploration  Studies  Department,  about  making 
a  work  involving  holography.  Asher  wanted  to  create  a  long 
strip  of  light,  about  three  feet  high  and  up  to  forty  feet 
long,  which  would  seem  to  hover  freely  in  space:  one  would 
not  see  the  holographic  plates  which  produced  the  image, 
but  merely  the  image  itself.  Jacobson  had  tried  unsuccess- 
fully to  obtain  a  commitment  from  Hughes  to  finance  the 
project— they  needed  several  kinds  of  lasers  not  available  at 
the  company  at  that  time,  and  outside  studio  space  to  set 
up  the  piece.  We  made  many  attempts,  also  unsuccessful,  to 
obtain  Hughes'  contracted  participation  in  A  &  T  so  that 
Asher  could  continue  his  collaboration  with  Jacobson. 
Since  this  channel  was  definitely  closed,  we  arranged,  in 
November,  1968,  for  Asher  to  visit  Ampex.  Asher  described 
his  ideas  to  our  contact  man  at  Ampex,  Dr.  Charles  Spitzer, 
and  toured  their  Redwood  City  facility.  Although  Ampex  is 
engaged  in  research  on  holography,  the  company  did  not 
feel  that  they  were  capable  of  producing  the  kind  of  effect 
the  artist  wanted  within  reasonable  financial  limits.  Asher 
wrote  to  us  in  late  December, 

The  proposal  that  I  showed  Ampex  dealt  with  a  phe- 
nomenon which  was  essentially  the  same  phenomenon 
we  talked  about  last  summer.  Basically,  this  was  light 
floating  in  space  and  having  the  quality  of  being  hap- 
pened upon  or  elusive. 


The  essential  reason  why  Ampex  believed  they  could  not 
handle  this  project  was  that  they  could  not  implement 
unknown  phenomena.  In  other  words,  if  I  had  a  project 
which  required  syrup  to  run  up  a  45°  incline,  Ampex 
would  supply  the  pumps  that  would  draw  the  syrup  up 
but  would  not  have  the  technical  facilities  to  show  me 
how  to  make  my  syrup  run  uphill.  Light  in  space  would 
be  analogous  to  the  syrup  running  uphill  and  the  light 
fixtures  needed  to  produce  the  phenomenon  would  be 
analogous  to  the  pumps  .... 

I  am  still  most  excited  (about  this  idea)  and  would  like 
to  discuss  at  further  length  my  project  with  other 
companies  .... 

In  March,  1969,  Asher  visited  Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory 
and  spoke  with  physicist  Dr.  Richard  Davies.  The  proposal 
Asher  had  in  mind  at  this  time  was  basically  an  extension  of 
the  idea  he  had  developed  for  Ampex:  rather  than  produc- 
ing p/anes  of  light,  he  presented  to  Davies  the  notion  of 
creating  a  hovering,  light-filled  cube,  room-sized,  which 
would  be  entirely  comprised  of  light;  he  was  adamant  that 
it  not  be  illusionistically  created  with  solid  materials,  such 
as  glass  or  plastic.  Davies  felt  that  the  only  way  to  achieve 
this  would  be  with  the  use  of  dust-particles,  smoke,  or  some 
sort  of  vapor  or  mist,  which  could  perhaps  be  controlled  to 
occupy  a  specific  configuration  in  space  and  illuminated 
from  within  or  without.  Asher  felt  that  such  devices  would 
negate  the  sense  he  was  after  of  pure  light,  disembodied  and 
unattached  to  artifically  produced  matter  of  any  sort. 


John  Baldessari 

Born  National  City,  California,  1931 
Resident  Santa  Monica 


lain  Baxter 

Born  Middlesborough,  England,  1936 
Resident  Vancouver 


A&T 


John  Baldessari  sent  us  several  proposals  and  subsequently 
toured  Heath  and  Company.  Three  of  these  proposals, 
listed  as  follows,  were  potentially  feasible,  but  none  were 
realized: 

1.  Work  with  outdoor  advertising  companies  to  provide 
space,  sign  painters,  and  photo  enlargement  service.  I 
would  like  to  explore  half-tone  photo  silk-screen 
color  process  to  do  large  scale  full  color  blowups  of 
photos.  The  idea  of  mass  art  by  conventional  means  I 
find  intriguing.  These  billboards  would  continue  the 
work  I  have  already  done  with  bus  stop  signs,  seat 
posters,  etc. 

2.  I  would  like  to  work  in  a  botany  lab.  I  have  various 
ideas  I  would  like  to  work  out,  such  as  coloring 
plants,  changing  growth  patterns,  etc.  Basically,  the 
idea  is  to  explore  living  materials  as  opposed  to  inert 
material. 

3.  You  are  already  familiar  with  my  ideas  of  transmitted 
art,  invisible  art  by  radio  waves  one  could  receive  if 
one  wished.  I  have  several  variations  currently. 


lain  Baxter,  President  of  N.E.  Thing  Company  (the  name 
Baxter  has  assigned  to  identify  his  output  of  art  in  numer- 
ous areas— research,  graphics,  photographs,  events,  objects, 
happenings,  etc.),  came  to  Los  Angeles  in  May,  1968  and 
toured  The  Garrett  Corporation.  He  was  primarily  interest- 
ed in  remote-controlled  inflatable  sculptures.  Before  leaving 
town  he  presented  us  with  the  following  sketchy  outline  for 
a  project  possibility: 

Inflatable  structures:  take  form  of  clouds,  lightning  bolts 

(cirrus,  cumulus);  large-300'  to  100';  multi-colored; 

helium  filled;  remote  controlled  apparatus;  Sky-Dog— 

flying  car,  shaped  like  hot  dog  bun. 

Remote  the  thing,  so  it  or  they  can  hover  over  Museum 
—over  country— large  tube  on  desert  of  tough  material, 
inflated  with  Ya  helium,  14  air— remoted,  so  can  roll  over 
countryside. 

Possibilities: 

1.   Floating  cloud,  remote  controlled  to  be  over 

Museum,  Watts,  parks,  deserts,  Pasadena— San 

Marino,  etc. 


a.  On  commercial  radio  or  TV,  an  art  section  of  the 
news  amidst  international,  local  news  and  sports. 
There  would  be,  perhaps,  an  ART  ROUNDUP. 

b.  A  radio  transmitter  would  be  exhibited  pre-pro- 
grammed with  tapes  to  broadcast  art  messages  at 
various  days  and  intervals.  The  title  of  the  piece 
would  be  the  call  letters  of  the  broadcasting  band 
used;  or  a  licensed  station  could  be  used,  either 
FM  or  AM  and  anyone  with  such  equipment  could 
pick  up  the  messages;  or  cheap  receivers  could  be 
sold  and  a  citizens  band  could  be  used.  The  piece 
would  include  a  program  guide  for  the  month. 
The  program  notes  would  be  part  of  the  piece. 


2.  Rolling,  tumbling  inflated  shapes  for  desert— remote 
controlled  movement. 

3.  Buried  shape,  inflated  to  raise  the  ground  above  it- 
may  be  under  glass,  sand,  etc.,— time  sequence? 

Large  Sculptures: 

4.  Discovery  pieces— to  be  placed  by  helicopter  in  the 
woods— on  the  desert— on  a  remote  lake— in  the  ocean 
or  other  remote  places.  Problems  involved  are  dura- 
bility of  material  for  various  weathers— also  porta- 
bility—should have  remote  controlled  inflation. 

5.  Sky  Dog— flying  car— lift  weight  of  a  human,  yet  col- 
lapsible and  portable. 


6.   Large  shape  to  move  down  a  large  river— various  navi- 
gation problems  involved— could  use  ocean  currents- 
could  also  be  submarine  with  remote  controlled 
movement. 

Materials  to  investigate  would  include  vinyl,  coated 
materials  such  as  canvas,  rubber,  cement  (inflatable 
cement?) 

Seeing  [further]  resources  of  the  company  would  stimu- 
late all  other  possibilities. 


The  Garrett  staff  with  whom  we  had  discussed  these  flying 
inflatables  maintained  that  the  remote  control  devices  re- 
quired to  operate  them  could  not  be  built  by  their 
company. 


Larry  Bell 

Born  Chicago,  1939 
Resident  Venice,  California 


54 


MT  described  various  available  corporations  to  Larry  Bell  in 
December,  1968.  The  artist  was  most  intrigued  with  the 
Rand  Corporation,  which  is  located  near  his  Venice  studio. 
He  had  the  impression  (a  "romance,"  he  later  called  it)  that 
top-secret  research  in  the  area  of  "mind-reading,"  and  other 
"1984-type"  propaganda  techniques  were  being  carried  on 
at  Rand. 

As  an  artist  whose  work  has  become  increasingly  dependent 
upon  perceptual  psychology.  Bell's  interest  in  Rand  was 
certainly  related  to  his  current  esthetic  thinking.  But  his 
concern  about  Rand's  activities,  whether  naive  or  informed, 
was  also  obviously  a  moral  one.  He  liked  the  idea  of  work- 
ing in  a  non-manufacturing  situation,  "with  a  bunch  of  guys 
removed  from  my  knowledge  area." 

Brownlee  Haydon,  Assistant  to  the  President  at  Rand, 
agreed  to  take  the  artist  into  residence.  He  later  wrote  us. 
During  Larry  Bell's  experience  with  Rand,  we  dealt  with 
his  visits  on  an  ad  hoc  basis.  We  arranged  for  three  semi- 
nars with  groups  of  interested  persons  on  three  occa- 
sions, and  deliberately  kept  attendance  to  about  fifteen 
(several  interested  non-Rand  artists  who  knew  about  the 
program  attended  a  couple  of  these  meetings).  The  usual 
consequence  was  of  two  sorts:  Larry  returned  to  visit 
with  interested  individuals  or  to  lunch  with  them,  or 
these  individuals  visited  Larry  Bell  at  his  studio— during 
their  lunch  hour,  after  work,  or  on  weekends.  Several 
individuals  established  continuing  personal  relations  with 
Larry— and  some,  I  believe,  still  see  him. 

Unfortunately,  nothing  very  interesting  happened.  Bell  felt 
that  Rand's  attitude  toward  him  was,  "Let's  all  pitch  in  and 
make  something  for  the  patio."  He  was  distressed  by  the 
lack  of  interest  he  felt  expressed  in  him  or  his  work,  but 
confessed  that  he  was  "probably  as  much  at  fault"  as  they, 
because  he  was  "not  capable  of  maintaining  an  openness" 
himself. 

In  the  fall  of  1970,  through  the  request  of  Rand's  commun- 
ications department,  several  people  who  had  had  contact 
with  Bell  at  Rand  talked  about  the  collaboration.  The 
comments  of  a  chemical  engineer  and  an  engineer  who 
works  on  the  electrical  activity  of  neural  networks  are  given 
respectively  as  follows;  although  they  certainly  don't  give  a 
complete  picture  of  Bell's  activities  at  Rand,  they  indicate 
certain  attitudes  on  the  part  of  those  with  whom  he  con- 
sulted which  are  of  interest: 

I  met  with  Bell  a  number  of  times,  individually  and  in 


groups  and  I  felt  there  was  a  lot  of  interesting  potential 
in  Larry's  continuing  here.  Several  of  us  were  intrigued 
with  the  idea  of  working  with  him,  but  nothing  material- 
ized. The  biggest  difficulty  was  that  he  was  looking  for 
something  specific  and  wanting  someone  to  describe  a 
joint  project  immediately  while  we  felt  that  we  should 
take  more  time  in  exploration.  Some  of  us  who  are 
working  in  visual  perception  and  the  mechanics  of 
human  color  vision,  for  example  in  computer  color  dis- 
play and  image  enhancement,  thought  there  was  some 
real  potential  in  a  joint  effort  ....  Things  like  how  you 
can  create  color  sensation  with  white  lights  just  by  flick- 
ering them  at  different  frequencies. 


The  second  engineer  commented. 

The  things  he  did  were  a  whole  new  bag  to  me.  He  had 
little  cubes  with  semi-transparent  sides  and  different 
densities  of  coatings  on  them.  They  would  be  placed  in  a 
bare,  white  lighted  room  and  an  observer  would  walk 
around  them  and  receive  different  perceptions,  especial- 
ly the  fact  that  they  changed  as  you  move  around.  Now 
these  perceptions  depend  on  very  complicated  signals  to 
the  visual  system.  Say  we're  exploring  a  project  and 
Larry  wants  to  make  people  have  the  sense  that  the  ob- 
ject looks  more  shimmering  depending  on  how  fast  you 
move  around  it.  I  could  say,  then,  I'll  build  a  model  to 
try  to  predict  how  the  visual  system  would  behave  with 
different  speeds.  But  this  would  have  been  a  psycho- 
physical project  that  should  have  been  in  a  psychology 
department.  Even  though  there  was  a  great  deal  of  over- 
lap in  our  interests,  and  a  great  deal  of  fun,  when  we 
tried  to  push  it  through  to  a  project,  it  got  too 
complicated. 

It  certainly  wasn't  anyone's  fault  that  Larry  didn't  get  a 
project.  The  limitations  were  inherent  in  the  context. 
Here  you  have  two  professions— science  and  art— both  of 
which  are  creative,  but  with  largely  different  back- 
grounds and  goals.  For  a  truly  creative  result  in  either 
profession,  you  need  highly  individualized  effort.  To  try 
to  blend  your  efforts  is  impossible.  If  I  see  something  I 
want  to  pursue,  I  have  to  go  ahead  and  he  can't  help  me 
very  much.  The  same  is  true  for  him.  We  could  brush 
together  and  perhaps  get  stimulation  from  each  other, 
but  to  create,  we  have  to  part  paths. 

The  relationship  between  Bell  and  Rand  terminated  in  July, 
1969. 


Max  Bill 

Born  Winterthur,  Switzerland,  1908 
Resident  Zurich 


Ronald  Bladen 

Born  Vancouver,  1918 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


In  October,  1968,  MT  met  with  Max  Bill  in  Zurich  to  dis- 
cuss possibilities  for  collaboration  between  the  Swiss  artist 
and  Kaiser  or  another  of  our  A&T  companies.  In  April, 
1969,  we  received  Bill's  description  of  a  Wind  Column,  a 
forty-eight  foot  high  piece  he  had  built  for  the  Swiss  Pavil- 
ion at  Montreal's  Expo  67,  but  wished  to  execute  a  second 
time  to  make  it  larger  and  more  effective.  The  tower  is  con- 
structed of  layered  steel  components  turning  at  different 
rates  and  in  opposite  directions,  and  powered  only  by  the 
force  of  wind  [1,  Collection  Musee  d'Art  Contemporain, 
Montreal] .  Bill  indicated  he  could  not  come  to  California 
until  August.  By  that  time  Kaiser  was  committed  to 
Richard  Serra. 


In  the  fall  of  1968,  we  asked  Ronald  Bladen  if  he  was  inter- 
ested in  submitting  an  A  &  T  proposal.  He  was  reluctant  to 
work  in  a  factory  because  of  the  many  years  he  had  spent 
in  industry  as  a  carpenter.  Nevertheless,  in  May,  1969,  he 
sent  the  following  letter  accompanied  by  plans: 

I  realize  this  may  be  too  late.  Also,  it  is  a  prohibitive 
project  and  expensive.  My  other  ideas  are  pieces  pure 
and  simple,  not  sufficiently  challenging.  At  any  rate,  this 
is  the  idea.  It  is  a  building,  of  course.  Although  I  think 
of  it  as  a  sculpture.  It  has  to  do  only  with  the  contem- 
plation of  the  inner  space  of  a  sphere.  It  is  a  meditation 
place.  The  sphere  is  22'  in  diameter  inside.  Contained 
within  a  cube  or  building  30'  long,  30'  deep  and  26' 
high.  Color  of  sphere  white.  Color  of  building  black.  An 
opening  in  the  wall  of  the  sphere  for  people  to  see  at  1 1' 
level. 

Problems:  Whether  it  can  be  done  at  all-in  a  real  practi- 
cal sense.  Fabrication  expense,  etc.  Can  the  sphere  be 
illuminated  from  the  inside  without  any  interruption  of 
the  surface  in  any  way?  As  I  write  this  out  it  does  seem 
impossible  in  terms  of  money  and  involvement  and  cer- 
tainly shipping  and  assembly  but  it  would  be  beautiful. 


George  Brecht 

Born  Halfway,  Oregon,  1925 
Resident  Dusseldorf 


56 


After  sending  some  corporation  brochures  to  George  Brecht 
In  London,  we  received  in  April,  1969,  the  following  two 
proposals: 

Your  'Industrious*  Art**'  project  sounds  interesting. 
There  are  two  projects  I  have  been  giving  thought  to 
recently  which  might  fit  into  that  context.  The  first  is 
the  development  of  stereoscopic  television.  Perhaps  CBS 
is  doing  research  on  this.  I  have  some  ideas  for  accom- 
plishing this  with  existing  sets,  as  they  have  no  doubt 
thought  of.  If  the  technique  is  no  problem,  then  this  is 
the  time  to  think  about  how  such  a  development  would 
be  used— performance  aspects,  and  I  have  some  ideas 
there,  too. 

More  immediately,  as  part  of  my  Research  Fellowship  at 
Leeds  College  of  Art,  and  working  with  the  engineering 
department  at  Bradford  University,  I've  started  some 
research  into  the  aerodynamics  of  the  alphabet;  studying 
the  behavior  of  letters  under  conditions  of  subsonic  and 
supersonic  airflow.  I'd  also  like  to  work  on  the  hydro- 
dynamics, but  that  could  be  a  later  chapter.  (Jet  Propul- 
sion Laboratories?) 


I'm  afraid  you  may  have  gotten  the  impression  in  our 
phone  conversation  that  I  was  not  serious  about  the 
land-moving  project.  Actually  this  is  a  project  which  I 
have  been  mulling  over  for  about  three  years.  It  was 
reactivated  during  a  visit  here  by  Walter  de  Maria,  when 
we  extended  plans  for  research  into  its  feasibility,  and  it 
remains  one  of  my  major  concerns.  For  the  'Art  by  Tele- 
phone' show,  for  example,  which  begins  November  1st 
at  the  Chicago  Museum  of  Contemporary  Art,  I  will  ini- 
tiate a  survey  of  public  opinion  on  the  project. 

I  think  you  will  agree  that  such  a  huge  project  as  re- 
arranging a  country  or  state  globally  would  be  enor- 
mously facilitated  if  the  capacities  of  a  corporation  like 
Rand,  with  their  pool  of  abilities  in  geophysical,  geo- 
political, and  other  fields,  could  be  made  available. 

For  this  reason,  I  was  less  than  enthusiastic  about  IBM, 
since  I  can't  see  immediately  how  they  could  fit  into 
either  this  plan,  or  the  alternative  two  previously  de- 
scribed to  Mrs.  Livingston,  i.e.,  the  aerodynamics  of  the 
alphabet,  or  stereo  TV. 


In  June,  when  both  IBM  and  Rand  had  become  available, 
MT  called  Brecht  in  England,  asking  for  further  details  on 
his  ideas  to  determine  if  either  corporation  was  suitable. 
Instead  Brecht  proposed  a  third  notion:  to  move  the  land 
mass  of  the  British  Isles  into  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  He  fol- 
lowed up  this  conversation  with  a  letter  stressing  the 
seriousness  of  this  fantastic  scheme: 


Over  the  next  few  months,  Brecht  conducted  extensive  re- 
search on  the  land-moving  project,  and  in  April,  1970,  he 
had  a  one-man  show  at  the  Eugenia  Butler  Gallery  in  Los 
Angeles  consisting  of  maps  of  fifteen  relocation  projects, 
one  of  which  is  reproduced  here  showing  the  relocation  of 
England  and  Florida.  [1] 


'Industrious— (obs.)  Exhibiting  or  marked  by  intelligent 

work;  skillful. 

**Art— (all  meanings,  see  Webster) 


57 


A&T 


EDITION    B 


PHYSICAL  WORLD  MAP 


James  Lee  Byars 

Born  Detroit,  Michigan,  1932 
Resident  New  York  City 


58 


The  Hudson  Institute  was  the  first  out-of-state  corporation 
to  be  contracted  to  A  &  T.  In  February,  1969,  we  wrote  to 
Herman  Kahn,  Director  and  co-founder  of  the  Institute,  re- 
questing Hudson's  involvement  as  a  Sponsor  Corporation, 
and  by  mid-March,  through  follow-up  correspondence  with 
President  Max  Singer,  an  agreement  was  reached  between 
Hudson  and  the  Museum;  it  was  left  to  our  discretion  to 
select  an  artist  to  place  in  residence,  and  a  Sponsor  contract 
was  signed. 

In  a  brochure  published  by  Hudson,  they  describe  them- 
selves as, 

a  private,  non-profit  research  organization  studying 
public  policy  issues,  especially  those  related  to  long 
range  perspectives,  to  U.S.  national  security  and  world 
order,  and  to  social  and  economic  development.  Its  goal 
is  to  promote  better  communications  and  understanding 
among  those  working  on  public  policy  problems,  and 
where  necessary,  it  seeks  to  develop  special  techniques 
to  aid  both  research  and  exposition  for  this  purpose  .... 

The  Institute  strives  to  bring  together  a  diversity  of  view- 
points as  well  as  skills  in  a  staff  that  works  together  in  an 
organized  manner,  yet  in  an  atmosphere  of  freedom  and 
inquiry  ....  Hudson  tries  to  provide  a  degree  of  time 
and  detachment  which  is  rarely  possible  in  the  studies  of 
an  official  agency,  and  a  degree  of  focus  and  integration 
which  is  rarely  available  in  a  university  or  center  for 
international  studies  .... 

The  Institute's  location,  at  Croton-on-Hudson,  offers  a 
quiet,  pleasant  place  to  work.  Situated  in  open,  hilly 
country  overlooking  the  Hudson  River,  about  thirty 
miles  north  of  New  York  City,  it  is  convenient  to  rural 
and  suburban  housing  and  is  less  than  one  hour  from 
Manhattan  by  car  or  train. 

In  April,  1969,  Jane  Livingston  met  in  this  consciously  idyl- 
lic environment  with  Mr.  Singer  and  his  assistant,  Gail  Pot- 
ter. We  had  already  discussed  the  possibility  of  working  at 
Hudson  with  James  Byars— he  seemed  a  sufficiently  extra- 
mundane  spirit  to  deal  in  such  an  abstract  and  rarefied  at- 
mosphere as  this— and  Byars  expressed  unqualified  enthusi- 
asm over  the  prospect.  (We  had  earlier,  in  Los  Angeles,  dis- 
cussed with  Byars  the  notion  of  working  with  one  of  the 
corporations  contracted  to  A  &  T  before  Hudson  entered 
the  project.  Gail  Scott  visited  Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory 
with  Byars  in  January,  1969.  They  met  with  JPL  physicist 
Dr.  Richard  Davies,  and  spent  most  of  their  touring  time 
viewing  the  space  module  displays,  which  fascinated  the 
artist.  Byars  was  not  at  all  interested  in  working  with 
specific  objects  or  materials  to  make  a  physical  art  work;  in- 
stead, he  pressed  Davies  about  the  possibility  of  sending  a 
rocket-propelled  vehicle  to  Mars.  This  request  seems  to  have, 
struck  Dr.  Davies  as  implausible,  and  the  Byars/JPL  connec- 
tion ended  at  that.) 


Therefore,  it  was  with  Byars  in  mind  that  JL  conversed 
with  Mr.  Singer  and  Mrs.  Potter  at  Croton-on-Hudson.  It 
wasn't  in  her  power  exactly  to  prepare  the  Hudson  person- 
nel for  Byars'  visitation,  and  indeed  we  had  no  preconcep- 
tion of  what  he  might  choose  to  do.  Mr.  Singer  agreed  to 
receive  Byars,  and  to  allow  the  collaboration  to  evolve  as  it 
might.  JL  was  given  a  tour  of  the  buildings  and  grounds, 
and  took  away  with  her  a  number  of  Hudson  Reports  on 
various  weighty  and  unrelated  international  topics. 

Byars  began  his  collaboration  on  May  19,  1969.  For  the 
first  two  or  three  weeks,  he  actually  lived  at 
Hudson— "They  have  a  dormitory  for  generals,"  he  said, 
"where  they're  putting  up  with  me."  (Actually  this  dormi- 
tory houses  students,  most  often,  who  come  during  the 
summer  to  "soak  up  the  atmosphere.")  After  that,  he  com- 
muted from  New  York  several  days  a  week;  he  continued  to 
work  until  July  20,  returning  after  a  trip  to  Europe  to  work 
periodically  through  November  and  December.  One  of  the 
first  important  events  in  the  collaboration  occurred  early  in 
his  residence,  when  Byars  attended  a  weekend  briefing  held 
for  the  benefit  of  Belgium's  King  Baudouin,  who  arrived 
just  as  Byars  did,  and  at  which  Herman  Kahn  presided  and 
spoke  at  length. 

In  order  for  us  to  keep  some  record  of  the  course  of  the 
Hudson/Byars  project,  the  artist  and  JL  devised  a  schedule 
whereby  they  would  speak  by  telephone  once  a  week  at  an 
appointed  time.  The  first  of  these  weekly  conversations 
took  place  right  after  the  symposium,  and  Byars  was  elated. 
He  was  beginning  to  formulate  the  terms  of  the  project  he 
intended  to  carry  out  with,  or  through,  Hudson,  and  he 
mentioned  four  points  he  wished  to  pursue.  Characteristic- 
ally, they  are  ambiguous  in  intent  and  mystifying  in  style, 
but  these  ideas  were  to  be  the  basis  of  his  continuing  ap- 
proach. The  four  points,  as  dictated  by  Jim,  are  these: 
1)  "The  exultation  of  being  in  the  proximity  of  extraordin- 
ary people."  2)  "The  one  hundred  most  interesting  ques- 
tions in  America  at  this  time."  3)  "The  next  step  after 
E=MC'^."  4)  "One  thousand  superlatives  about  the  Hudson 
Institute." 

Byars  talked  of  making  a  trip  around  the  country  to  inter- 
view certain  illustrious  Thinkers,  and  perhaps  thus  invoke 
the  one  hundred  significant  questions.  This  proved  to  be 
economically  unfeasible,  so  he  established  a  private  tele- 
phone World  Question  Center.  He  found,  in  his  words,  that 
"there  is  a  terrific  prejudice  against  asking  questions."  It 
occurred  to  him  to  state,  "axiomatically,"  as  he  said: 
"Product:  ten  thousand  pauses  caused  by  asking  people  for 
questions  that  they  are  asking  themselves."  He  conceived 
the  idea  of  prevailing  upon  the  Gallup  people  to  run  a  poll 
for  him,  and  even  went  so  far  as  to  request  promotional 
space  in  the  major  U.S.  magazines.  (This  never  worked  out.) 
At  one  point,  following  a  phone  conversation  with  James, 
Betty  Asher  wrote  in  a  memo  to  MT:  "His  Three  Ambi- 
tions: Artist-in-residence  at  the  Pentagon  (a  letter  from  you 


HISTORY 


The  present  Hudson  site  once  bel 
physician.  Or,  Robert  Larnb ,  who 
in  1920  and  designed  the  seven-b 
special  medical  care  center  with 
viding  highly  individualized  att 
tients  (especially  those  requiri 
tion).  Wanting  to  avoid  a  hospi 
Dr.  Lamb  planned  the  hallways  in 
\-/ith  windov/s  on  one  side  and  bed 
lending  a  spacious  and  open  air 
the  first  and  second  floor  area 
suites  consisting  of  a  patient's 
a  nurse's  room.   The  third  floor 
keeping  staff  . 


onged  to  a  Nev,-  York 
purchased  the  acreage 
ui 1 d  ing  complex  as  a 

the  purpose  of  pro- 
ention  for  his  pa- 
ng mental  rehabilita- 
tal-tike  atmosphere, 

the  ma  in  bu  i 1  ding 
rooms  on  the  other, 
to  the  rooms.   Most  of 
was  divided  into 

bedroom  and  bath  plus 

was  for  the  house- 


Bui  Iding  Three  was  completed  while  work  on  the  main 
building  was  still  in  progress.   it  was  used  primarily 
as  a  garage,  with  living  quarters  on  the  second  floor 
for  male  employees.  Buildings  Four,  Five  and  Six  were 
built  betv/een  1926  and  193'  to  provide  accommodations 
for  a  snail  number  of  special  patients.   Dr.  Lamb's 
residence  (our  Building  Two)  was  finished  in  1932.  as 
was  Building  Seven,  originally  a  workshop  for  the 
ma  intenance  crew. 


■^U 


.^C  ,. 


Dr.  Lamb  retired  from  active  practice  and  closed  the 
center  In  IS'+S,  although  he  lived  on  the  grounds  un- 
til his  death  in  1952.  After  19^8  the  property  was 
leased  to  several  tenants  and  the  renta I  i nconie  used 
to  finance  grants  to  the  Albany  Medical  School  and  the 
University  of  Vermont  Medical  College,  as  stipulated 
by  Dr.  Lamb. 

The  first  tenants  were  the  Maryknoll  Sisters,  who 
needed  interim  accommodations  while  their  new  convent 
was  being  built  in  Ossining.   They  left  in  January 
1957  and  the  estate  v;as  taken  over  by  the  IBM  Re- 
search Division,  also  on  an  interim  basis,  until  the 
Thomas  J.  Watson  Research  Center  was  completed  in 
June  I96I . 


CONSTRUCTION  OF  THE  MAIN  BUILDING  1920-1922 


BUILDING  ONE 

contains  the  offices  of  the  Director  and  the  Presi- 
dent as  well  as  most  of  the  research  staff.   There  is 
a  library  on  the  third  floor,  a  dining  room  and  small 
conference  rooms  on  the  first  floor  and  a  print  shop 
in  the  basement . 


BUILDING  SEVEN 
is  the  ma  in 
conference  building 
for  seminars  and 
larger  meet  I ngs . 
Our  largest  meeting 
room,  furnished  v;ith 
aud  io-vi  sual  equi  p- 
ment,  is  on  the 
ground  floor,  with 
three  smaller  meet- 
ing rooms  above. 


BUILDING  TVO 

houses  additional  of- 
fices for  the  research 
staff  and  a  map  room  used 
primarily  by  the  Economic 
Deve lopment  Studies  section. 


BUILDING  THREE 

was  originally  a  garage 
but  is  now  used  for  storage 
space  and  a  workshop  for 
maintenance  operations. 


BUILDING  FOUR 

is  the  Administration 
Building,  where  the  account-^ 
ing,  purchasing  and  service  jfi^  m 
departments  as  well  as  the   ~  *■ 
office  of  the  Controller 
and  Assistant  Treasurer  are 
located. 


BUILDING  FIVE 

is  now  used  only  as  a 
summer  dormitory  for  gradu- 
ate students  employed  by 
the  Institute  during  their 
summer  vacations. 


BUILDING  SIX 

is  the  home  of  one  of 
the  maintenance  crew  and 
his  fami ly . 


60 


would  be  helpful).  To  get  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  for  Herman 
Kahn.  To  run  Herman  Kahn  for  President." 

Byars'  contact  with  the  Hudson  Institute  personnel  seems 
to  have  consisted  mostly  of  series  of  statements  or  ques- 
tions mimeographed  or  otherwise  duplicated  and  circulated 
in-house.  One  of  the  first  questionnaires  given  to  the  Hud- 
son employees  requested  "One  hundred  superlatives  on 
Herman  Kahn."  Byars'  own  first  "superlative"  is,  "l-fell-in- 
love-with-Herman  Kahn-because-l-knew-in-advance-that-he- 
could-speak-four-hundred-words-a-minute."  He  made  a 
number  of  items  not  intended  to  elicit  response,  but  simply 
given  gratuitously,  such  as  hundreds  of  thin  strips  of  paper, 
seventeen  inches  by  one-quarter  inch,  reading  "PUTTING 
BYARS  IN  THE  HUDSON  INSTITUTE  IS  THE  ARTISTIC 
PRODUCT."  [1] 

JL  received  a  letter  from  Byars  describing  his  first  sub- 
project  at  Hudson: 

J.  I  hand  delivered  to 

every  staff  member  the 

Pink  Book  (as  an  attitude  note) 

and  the  exultation  slip- 
next  day  in  white  suit 

the  white  questionnaire 

all  as  intro.  J. 

P.S.  They  loved  it. 

According  to  Gail  Potter,  who  remained  fairly  close  to 
Byars  throughout  his  tenure  at  Hudson,  there  was  in  fact  a 
general  attitude  of  hostility  on  the  part  of  the  Institute  per- 
sonnel to  Byars'  presence.  There  were,  in  her  words,  "a  lot 
of  square  people  who  felt  that  what  Jim  was  doing  was  a 


j. 

1^          ''    '-   ■ 

F'—:'i 

r  ^'  n 

waste  of  his  time  and  their  time."  Mrs.  Potter  felt  that  after 
the  first  two  or  three  weeks,  there  was  not  much  serious 
interaction  between  the  artist  and  the  Hudson  staff.  He 
continued  to  spend  more  time  wandering  about  in  the  halls, 
chatting  with  people  at  random,  than  in  the  small  office 
which  was  reserved  for  him. 

Byars  did  spend  considerable  time  with  Herman  Kahn, 


either  at  public  occasions  or  in  private— he  estimates  that  he 
had,  overall,  about  twenty  hours  of  informal  conversation 
with  Kahn,  at  his  home  or  at  Hudson.  Gail  Potter  said  she 
guessed  that  Byars  "spent  as  much  time  with  Herman  as 
anyone  ever  does." 

Some  months  after  the  Byars/Hudson  collaboration  ended, 
JL  spoke  to  Herman  Kahn  by  telephone  and  elicited  some 
comments  from  him  on  James  and  his  impact  at  Hudson. 
Kahn  immediately  observed  that  the  response  of  Hudson 
staff  to  Byars  seemed  to  be  rather  clearly  divided  between 
the  younger  people— under  thirty— who  liked,  or  were 
amused  by  Byars,  and  those  over  thirty,  who  were  hostile 
to  him.  (Byars  says  this  is  a  silly  statement.)  Asked  to  give 
his  own  thoughts  as  to  why  this  might  have  been  true,  Kahn 
replied,  "Most  people,  unless  they  are  very  young,  still  see 
art  today  in  its  old  fashioned  roles:  art  as  religion,  art  as 
heroic,  art  for  entertainment.  Art  today  is  none  of  these 
things.  \t'%  happening.  That  is  what  Byars  is  about,  and  one 
has  to  accept  this  to  accept  Jim."  Kahn  went  on  to  remark 
in  general  that  "God  and  Darwin  got  buried,  and  once  Dar- 
win is  buried,  the  Puritan  ethic  goes  with  him.  Jim  under- 
stands this  and  is  trying  to  move  in  this  direction.  There's 
the  question,  then,  as  to  whether  Jim  is  symptom  or  cause. 
Probably  he's  symptom." 

When  pressed  for  an  opinion  on  the  real  intellectual  value 
of  Byars'  World  Question  Center  project  itself,  as  opposed 
to  the  fact  of  the  artist's  presence  at  Hudson  generally, 
Kahn  said  finally,  "Well,  of  course  it's  a  totally  undisci- 
plined and  uninformed  project."  Perhaps  the  most  interest- 
ing comments  made  by  Kahn  to  JL  involved  a  process  of 
questioning  his  own  motives  regarding  Byars'  presence  at 
Hudson.  Kahn  asked  himself,  "Why  are  we  bothering  with 
Jim?  After  all,  I  want  the  organization  to  run  right.  The 
presence  of  someone  like  Jim  is  theoretically  subversive  of 
that  goal."  Kahn  never,  even  by  implication,  answered  his 
own  question.  Byars,  for  his  part,  had  some  comments  in 
answer  to  Kahn's  observation.  Significantly,  he  feels  that 
"Herman  tends  to  view  things  rather  categorically;  he 
generalizes  as  a  matter  of  habit.  He  doesn't,  however,  see 
art  in  general  as  a  category  of  enormous  interest  for  himself 
or  for  the  world— he  tends  to  view  it  as  a  luxury." 

Among  the  people  Byars  contacted  by  telephone  during  his 
first  period  of  residence  at  Hudson  were  Alvin  Weinberg, 
Director  of  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission— his  question 
was,  according  to  Byars,  "Axiology?"— and  Marshall 
McLuhan,  who  responded,  "What  do  you  mean,  ques- 
tions?" Byars  visited  Princeton  on  three  different  occasions, 
where  he  met  with  Physicist  Eugene  Wigner  (there  is  no 
record  of  his  response  that  we  know  of)  and  astronomical 
mathematician  Freeman  Dyson,  who  allegedly  said  to 
Byars,  "We're  getting  red  light  from  outer  space."  Whether 
this  was  intended  as  a  question  or  a  statement  is  not 
ascertained. 


61 


A&T 


62 


In  July,  Hal  Glicksman  visited  Hudson  for  a  day;  he 
happened  to  be  there  during  a  seminar  on  U.S.  Policies: 
Donnestic  and  Foreign.  [2]  Talking  with  JL  about  the  con- 
ference later,  Hal  said,  "It  was  one  of  those  meetings  that  I 
guess  Kahn  is  famous  for— bringing  together  all  types  of 
people  and  presenting  several  different  lectures  on  current 
social  problems.  We  heard  Kahn's  lecture  in  the  late  morn- 
ing and  had  lunch  with  him,  and  then  attended  part  of  an 
afternoon  session." 

JL:  How  did  you  feel  Kahn  was  responding  to  Byars,  or 
was  he? 


Byars:  I'd  be  very  happy  to  have  whatever  analysis  you 
would  make. 

Kahn:  To  me  an  important  question,  for  example,  is. 
Can  a  computer  transcend  human  beings?  I  suspect  the 
answer  to  that  is  yes.  I  find  it  a  very  unpleasant  pros- 
pect ....  The  computer  may  write  better  poetry  than 
human  beings,  better  drama,  make  more  perceptive 
judgements ....  I  think  before  the  end  of  the  century 
you'll  be  saying  yes  to  that ....  It  may  turn  out  that  the 
only  way  you  can  do  this,  is  that  the  computer  itself  will 
have  to  learn  by  experience.  That  seems  very  clear. 


HG:  He  was.  He  was  very  outgoing,  and  somehow  when 
a  person  is  that  rational  and  is  asked  a  nonsensical 
question,  the  question  and  answer  just  don't  jibe.  Kahn's 
answers  were  so  straight  and  so  good  to  the  questions 
that  were  basically  ridiculous  and  supposed  to  open  up 
the  person's  flow  of  thinking,  and  Kahn  would  answer  it 
more  or  less  directly.  Like  Byars  would  ask,  'What's  the 
most  important  question  of  the  twentieth  century?'  and 
Kahn  says,  'Well,  this  question  is  on  three  levels.  First  of 
all  there  are  cosmic  questions  like.  How  is  the  world 
created,  does  God  exist  and  this  sort  of  thing.  We  can 
dismiss  those.'  Then  he  goes  on  to  outline  the  three  most 
important  questions  of  the  current  day.  I  forget  what 
they  were  .  .  .  Viet  Nam  and  this  and  that.  I  mean  he  has 
answers  for  Jim— that's  the  important  thing. 

Byars  felt  that  although  he  maintained  a  stimulating  rela- 
tionship with  Kahn,  Kahn  was  not  particularly  helpful  in 
supplying  interesting  questions.  (He  was  not,  after  all,  seek- 
ing answers.)  Indeed  the  artist  said,  "If  I  had  limited  myself 
to  Hudson  I  would  have  failed.  Only  by  extending  myself 
out  into  the  world  was  I  able  to  gather  questions  at  all." 

The  peculiar  quality  of  the  dialogue  between  Byars  and 
Kahn  when  Byars  was  trying  most  persistently  to  invoke 
Questions  comes  out  in  fragments  of  the  taped  conversation 
between  them,  made  on  the  occasion  of  Hal's  July  visit: 

Byars:  I'd  really  like  to  ask  you  for  one  hundred 

questions  .... 

Kahn:  Are  you  going  to  be  around  tomorrow  at  all?  .  .  . 

Byars:  It's  very  interesting  how  difficult  it  is  to  find 
questions.  What  is  an  interesting  question  in  1969? 

Kahn:  That's  not  our  problem.  Our  problem  is  too  many 
questions  ....  There  are  different  levels.  Some  say  the 
most  important  questions  are  religious.  Is  there  a  pur- 
pose to  mankind?  Is  there  any  meaning  to  existence? 
Now  the  atheist  of  course  says  no,  man  is  the  measure  of 
himself.  But  that  turns  out  to  be  wrong,  in  some  funny 
way  .... 


In  the  selection  of  questions  compiled  by  Byars  at  the  end 
of  his  Hudson  collaboration  and  published  in  book  form, 
none  was  authored  by  Kahn.  In  explaining  why  this  is, 
Byars  cited  a  remark  made  to  him  by  Hudson  employee 
Frank  Armbruster.  Armbruster  said,  on  the  subject  of 
posing  questions,  "Most  of  the  world  is  concerned  with 
problems  which  they  think  have  imminent  solutions." 
Byars'  response  to  this  was,  "I'm  not  interested  in  solu- 
tions. No  one  could  get  this  through  his  head,  including 
Herman  Kahn." 

In  the  spring  of  1969,  Byars  had  been  in  Antwerp  to  partic- 
ipate in  an  exhibition  there.  Through  his  contact  with  the 
man  in  charge  of  Belgian  cultural  affairs,  he  arranged  with 
the  Belgium  Radio  and  Television  network  to  sponsor  a  live 
television  and  radio  program,  on  which  Byars  would  appear 
and  hold  his  World  Question  Center,  simply  by  telephoning 
certain  forewarned  people  and  engaging  in  dialogue  with 
them  while  being  televised.  The  following  letter  was  sent  to 
MT,  requesting  his  availability  during  the  time  of  the 
program: 

On  November  28th  69,  the  B.R.T.  will  broadcast  a  live 
program  about  and  with  James  Lee  Byars,  the  first  artist 
in  residence  of  the  Hudson  Institute,  Croton,  N.Y. 

James  Lee  Byars  (Detroit  1932)  asks  questions,  asks 
himself  questions.  It  is  quite  surprising  that  he  need  not 
refer  to  another  world  or  to  another  reality,  but  simply 
appears  as  the  reality  of  our  world.  He  does  so  in  the 
most  simple  and  direct  way.  His  significance  does  not  lie 
in  what  he  says  or  does,  but  in  the  attitude  out  of  which 
he  tackles  everything,  in  the  man  who  is  behind  it. 
Everything  he  does,  even  if  it  seems  exceptional  accord- 
ing to  the  usual  standards,  is  so  obvious  and  coherent 
that  we  easily  can  approve  of  his  ideas  and,  with  him, 
look  at  our  own  behaviour  and  our  own  world  like  a 
stranger. 

You  have  been  chosen  by  James  Lee  Byars  to  be  tele- 
phoned during  the  program,  together  with  a  few  other 
personalities.  So,  on  the  28th  of  November,  between  10 
p.m.  and  1 1 :30  p.m.  (GMT),  Byars  will  ask  you  some 
questions,  which  he  thinks  important  or  about  which  he 
wants  your  opinion.  All  the  questions  and  answers  are  to 


A&T 


THURSDAY,     JULY    10 

6:00  p.m.  Registration,  Cocktails  and  Dinner 

8:00-10:00  Introduction:    A  Basic  Context  for  Discussion 

of  U.  S.  Foreign  and  Domestic  Policies 


Herman  Kahn 


FRIDAY,     TULY    11  IMPORTANT  FORCES  OF  THE  FUTURE 

7:30-8:45  Breakfast 


9:00-12:30 

12:30 
2:00-3:  3  0 
3:30 
4:00-6:00 

6:00-8:00 
8:00-10:00 


More  on  the  Basic  Context 
(Coffee  break  at  10:30) 
Lunch 

Morale  and  Public  Works 
(Coffee  break) 

New  Elements  in  American  Politics 

Cocktails  and  Dinner 
Discussion 


Herman  Kahn 


Robert  Panero 


William  Pfaff 
Frank  Armbruster 


SATURDAY.     JULY    12  SOME  KEY  MILITARY  ISSUES 

7:30-8:45  Breakfast 


9:00-12:30 


12:30 


Some  Current  Military  Issues: 
Vietnam,  ABM,  Central  War  Strategies 


(Coffee  break  at  10:30) 
Lunch  and  Adjournment 


Panel 
Johan  Hoist 
Herman  Kahn 
Max  Singer 


64 


be  in  English.  This  program  might  be  the  beginning  of  a 
world  question  center,  as  Byars  puts  it. 

We  kindly  request  you  to  take  part  in  the  program  and 
therefore  we  would  ask  you  to  return  the  enclosed  letter 
as  soon  as  possible  (deadline:  22nd  Nov.).  Five  hours  be- 
fore the  program  we  will  call  you  for  the  final  checking. 

We  should  be  most  grateful  if  you  would  cooperate. 

Yours  faithfully. 

Bert  JANSSENS. 
Program  Controller  TV.— 
Flemish  Department  (B.R.T.) 

The  program  was  not  entirely  successful  from  Byars'  point 
of  view  in  terms  of  the  "profundity  or  seriousness"  of  the 
questions  elicited,  but  as  an  event  it  came  off  excellently. 
Byars  sat,  in  costume,  in  the  midst  of  a  group  of  fifty  stu- 
dents from  the  University  of  Brussels,  who  acted  as  opera- 
tors. About  twenty  people  were  telephoned,  most  of  them 
Europeans,  some  in  America.  Walter  Hopps,  at  the 
Corcoran  Gallery  in  Washington,  D.C.,  was  on  hand  in  his 
office  with  a  group  of  other  gentlemen  selected  by  Byars. 
One  of  them,  a  Mr.  Rosenkrantz  from  the  National  Insti- 
tute of  Health,  asked  what  Byars  considered  the  most 
successful  question  of  the  hour:  "What  is  the  body  of  the 
cognitive  instrument?"  At  the  end  of  the  telephone  ques- 
tion period,  the  students  present  with  Jim  in  the  studio 
were  invited  to  ask  questions,  and  then  the  viewing  audi- 
ence was  given  a  phone  number  to  call  the  next  day  if  they 
wished  to  call  Byars  with  questions.  The  phone  was  busy 
for  hours,  according  to  Byars,  and  thus  the  experiment 
ended  propitiously. 

On  December  8,  we  received  from  Byars,  on  orange  painted 
paper  cut  in  the  shape  of  a  pronged  devil's  tail,  a  message 
saying  in  part,  "M.  Babe,  the  World  Question  Center  on  TV 
was  sensational  in  both  Belg.  and  Holland— one  most  extra- 
ordinary part  was  an  Angelic  Belgian  voice  reading  at  ten 
second  intervals  my  100  ?'s  (like  clone  me?)  .  .  .  Sorry  I 
missed  you  on  the  world  phone  (Telstar  was  crystal  clear)" 

And  shortly  thereafter  he  added,  on  a  pink  tissue  paper  tail 
appended  to  an  enormous  white  paper  circle: 

. . .  with  the  World  Question  Center  on  TV  I  asked  for  a 
min.  of  intro.  without  speech  or  sound— they  said  30  sec. 
max.— at  the  end  of  a  simple  quote  on  the  poss.  of  an 
electronic  simulation  which  may  within  the  decade  jump 
all  languages  and  earthpeople  'BEEP'  'BEEP'  at  U.N. 
Understood  radios  TV  broke  down  and  4  minutes  of 
total  silence  and  perfectly  still  cameras  was  transmitted 
to  all  of  Belgium  and  Holland  (50  people  in  a  pink  ring 
sitting— looking  straight  ahead  and  5  in  a  pink  pants  on 
chairs  in  the  middle  on  my  rt.  a  transparent  blond  and 
on  my  It.  a  transparent  blue  girl  from  Ghana) 


65 


A&T 


Throughout  the  course  of  Byars'  project,  he  was  thinking 
about  possible  ways  of  participating  in  the  Expo  70  exhibi- 
tion. We  received  numerous  letters  from  him  with  sugges- 
tions for  such  a  project.  As  early  as  June,  1969,  James  sent 
us  a  list  of  ideas: 

I  CAN 

GET  THE  BOY  SOPRANOS 
AT  ST.  THOMAS  CHOIR 
SCHOOL  TO  SING  THE 
OUESTIONS  (FANTASTIC  HIGH 
SOUNDS)  USING  ONLY  THE 
LANGUAGE  AS  MUSIC- 
IT  COULD  BE  MOSTLY 
AUDITORY  PRESENTATION? 
I  VIEW  'JUST  THE  OPPORTUNITY 
TO  RESPOND'  AS  A  SHOW 
TO  TELEPHONE  1000  PEOPLE 
IN  AN  AREA  ASKING  FOR  THEIR 
QUESTIONS  AS  A  SHOW. 
THIS  CAN  BE  DONE  IN  WHATEVER 
DEGREE  OF  TECHNOLOGY 
THAT  IS  AVAILABLE  (VOCALLY 
IN  PERSON  OR  PHONE  OR 
RADIO  OR  TV). 
I'VE  TAKEN  ON  ANOTHER 
PART  OF  THIS  PROJECT  TO 
TRY  AND  COLLECT 
'50  SINGLE  SENTENCE 
AUTOBIOGRAPHIES' 
GIVE  ME  YOURS? 
MAYBE  SOME  WILL  TAKE 
ME  SERIOUSLY? 
ANOTHER  PART  THAT  COULD 
BEBEAUTIFUL- 
A  MOVIE  OF  FIRST  SIGHT- 
PEOPLE  MEETING 
FOR  THE  FIRST  TIME-WHAT 
DOES  THE  FACETELL?-DOES 
IT  MATTER  IF  YOU'RE  TIRED? 
(DOES  1  FATIGUE?)-WHAT 
COULD  YOU  SEE  IN  100  FACES? 
IT  APPEARS  TO  ME  AS  A  PERFECT 
SILENT  MOVIE-OR  A  VIDEO 
SYSTEM  PROJECT -THE 
MOOD  OF  A  PERSON'S  FACE  IS 
INTERESTING  100  MOODS 


At  the  end  of  1969,  BA  spoke  to  James  by  telephone  and 
drafted  this  memo: 

J.  Byars  called  and  would  like  an  answer  today  or 

tomorrow  re  his  participation  in  EXPO. 

He  claims  he  is  asking  so  little: 

1 .  Opening  day  or  night,  he  would  be  present  with  a 
Sony  pocket  tape  recorder  and  the  voices  of  Viva,  a 
child  (ascertained  by  the  child  who  could  whisper  the 
highest  among  those  who  make  up  the  St.  Thomas 
Choir),  Herman  Kahn  and  Byars. 

2.  Gold  sheet  or  hole  in  the  wall  (1  inch)  for  Byars  lips 
through  which  he  would  emit  one  question  a  minute 
OR  a  6'  X  3'  gold  leafed  panel  for  same  purpose. 

3.  A  superwoman  (of  his  choosing)  with  whom  he 
would  exchange  questions  and/or  dialogue  for  an 
hour.  (Nothing  more,  I  hope!) 

4.  Police  protection  if  we  can't  include  him  in  the  exhi- 
bition in  one  of  the  above  manners. 

The  idea  that  finally  became  most  persistent  in  Byars'  mind 
was  that  of  presenting  his  compilation  of  questions  in  the 
form  of  an  edible  book.  In  a  letter  written  to  us,  he  said, 

.  .  .  The  figs,  on  the  dissolve  paper  are  $3.70  per  100 
sheets  for  8V2  x  1 1  (spec,  price  to  me  from  the  Chem. 
who  invented  it).  Maybe  I  can  get  it  for  less  and  assume 
that  Hud.  will  print  it— I  do  want  it  to  be  exquisite  how- 
ever . .  .  the  world's  first  eatable  public  book  .  .  .  The 
cover  hopefully  will  also  be  eatable  .... 

At  the  time  of  Byars'  request  that  the  Museum  help  to  pro- 
duce the  edible  book  with  funds  from  the  A&T  budget, 
we  had  no  funds  available.  Hudson  was  also  asked  to  pro- 
duce the  book;  they  finally  agreed  to  print  an  edition  of 
100,  but  on  non-edible  paper,  with  one  question  to  a  page 
in  hairline  type.  The  text  is  as  follows: 

This  book  is  eatable? 

Merry  X? 

Woo? 

O? 

I'm  the  self-appointed  World  Ouestion  Center? 

Putting  Byars  in  the  Hudson  Institute  is  the  Artistic 

Product? 
E=MC^next? 
I  have  perfect  question? 
This  is  question  theory? 
Say  it  is  yours? 

The  question  of  perfect  speed  and  total  elasticity? 
A  proposition  is  public  question? 
Clone  me? 

Which  questions  have  disappeared? 

Do  you  have  an  affection  for  question? 


66 


What's  the  difference  between  asking  and  telling? 
He  grabbed  my  nose  and  said  what  do  you  want  a 

nonlinguistic  question? 
Put  your  hypothesis  in  general  language? 
Imagine  the  palpability  of  question? 
Did  Plato  forget  question? 
Is  all  speech  interrogative? 
Ho!  Ho!  Ho!  is  the  same  in  all  languages? 
Call  all  earth  attention  to  a  signal? 
Arro,  is  repeat,  info.? 
I'll  give  you  5  min.  of  face? 
What  questions  are  you  asking  yourself? 
Think  yourself  away? 
My  business  is  asking  and  access? 
I'll  get  her  question  grammar? 
Read  Plato's  nonsensical  definition  of  the  Good? 
"Forget  it"  is  a  treatise? 
Put  your  autobiography  in  a  question? 
The  question  is  the  answer? 
A  Pompidou? 

Is  self-conscious  option  enough? 
Trancequestion? 

I  fell  in  love  with  Herman  Kahn  because  I  knew  in 
advance  he  could  speak  400  words  a  minute? 


What's  fancy  for  those  in  power  (does  it  keep  them 

healthy)? 
A  '69  question? 

My  only  desire  is  to  explain  everything? 
I  listed  all  the  Universal  Questions  before? 
What's  your  general  honorific  sweetie? 
Put  question  in  the  Encyclopedia  Britannica? 
I  am  the  complete  history  of  the  world? 
How  to  meet  a  General,  "Imagine  I  have  short  hair  and 

birds  on  my  shoulders  like  you  once  had"? 
This  question  is  capable  of  questioning  itself? 
The  ghost  of  question? 
Starquake? 

I'm  the  Unofficial  Poet  Laureate  of  the  United  States? 
Make  a  soliloquy  on  question? 
"Well?"  was  her  favorite  question? 
Question  is  Big  Art? 

What's  the  difference  between  quantity  and  quality? 
How  to  fall  in  love  with  a  phone  call? 
Are  all  people  interchangeable  at  some  live  level? 
How  does  he  question  and  how  does  he  eat? 
The  world  is  so  fantastic  why  make  up? 
All  questions  consist  of  establishing  the  notion  of  asking 

followed  by  a  nominative? 


67 


Greg  Card 

Born  Los  Angeles,  1945 
Resident  Arleta,  California 


A&T 


The  Earth  at  least? 

His  head  weighs  25  lbs? 

Exalting  question  is  surprising? 

To  present  the  opportunity  of  possible  response  is  the 

exhibition? 
I  can  repeat  the  question  but  am  I  bright  enough  to  ask  it? 
Multiply  a  question? 
Find  the  world  question  in  a  week? 
He  asks  100  times  or  not  at  all? 
Mathematics  HaHa? 
Imagine  being  possessive  of  a  question? 
Questions  are  gifts? 
I'm  full  of  Byars? 
My  work  is  civil  defense? 
You're  the  person  they  pretend  doesn't  exist? 
Herman  Kahn'll  be  a  Buber  by  50? 
What's  the  speed  of  an  idea? 
He  has  the  heaviest  question  in  the  U.S.A.? 
Question  boon? 

I'll  be  the  Artist  in  the  Pentagon,  next? 
Make  a  question  was  the  whole  exam? 
Suppose  the  context  around  this  question? 
I  quit  you? 

All  questions  rise  in  intonation? 
The  first  sentence  I  ever  read  was  "I  can  see  you"? 
Israel  is  a  philosophical  mistake? 
A  ?  Zoo? 

Numbers  don't  count? 
Ask  is  New  English? 
Limit  all  talk  to  the  sound  of  0? 
It  takes  5  minutes  to  come  down  to  your  level? 
I'm  1/16  Jewish? 
Drop  hello? 

Empty  mouth,  what's  the  matter? 
Her  questions  are  her  ornaments? 
The  world's  smartest  man  got  mad  when  asked  for  a 

question? 
Axiologv?  from  The  Director  of  Atomic  Energy? 
I've  done  Anglo-Saxon? 
If  you  ask  for  something  that  doesn't  exist  you  deserve  it 

on  the  intelligence  of  the  request? 
Questionbully? 

Suddenly  he's  a  collar,  a  necktie,  and  a  lapel? 
Credit  is  to  identify  your  question? 
My  tongue  is  insured  for  $50,000? 


In  July,  1968  Greg  Card  sent  a  project  proposal,  an  excerpt 
of  which  follows: 

Nine  three  dimensional  paintings,  suspended: 

Color: 

Variations  on  three  colors  (Red,  Green,  Blue)  in  two 

forms  .  .  .  transparent  and  semi-opaque. 

Medium: 

Polyester  resin  (crystal  clear  in  original  form)  and  fiber- 
glass cloth  or  matting.  Colors  will  be  mixed  in  the  resin 
according  to  the  formula  for  each  painting.  Nylon  or 
monofilament  wire  will  be  used  for  the  suspension 
system. 

Form  and  Dimensions: 

Cylindrical  with  cone  shaped  ends  ....  These  paintings 
to  be  hollow.  All  paintings  to  have  a  wall  thickness  of  no 
more  than  %  inch  and  no  less  than  1/8  inch  with  a  total 
outside  diameter  of  approximately  5  inches  and  a  total 
length  of  12  feet.  Paintings  to  be  suspended  in  a  horizon- 
tal position. 

Production  Process: 

This  process  is  one  that  I  have  come  to  know  as  spin 
forming  or  casting.  It  also  has  been  brought  to  my  atten- 
tion that  this  process  has  been  used  with  success  by  the 
Mattel  Corporation  and  experimented  with  by  a  few 
other  concerns. 


James  Byars  has  made  himself  into  a  work  of  art.  There- 
fore, in  the  Museum  exhibition,  we  will  present  a  film  of 
Byars.  In  it,  he  will  appear  life  size,  delivering  a  monologue. 

Jane  Livingston 


Anthony  Caro 
Born  London,  1924 
Resident  London 


John  Chamberlain 

Born  Rochester,  Indiana,  1927 
Resident  New  York  City 


68 


In  January,  1969,  iVlT  wrote  to  Anthony  Caro  explaining 
A  &  T,  and  asked  to  see  the  artist  in  London.  Caro  replied 
that  the  program  interested  him,  but  he  was  not  planning 
an  extended  stay  in  the  United  States.  Then  in  May  he 
wrote  to  say  that  after  discussing  A  &  T  with  Jules  Olitski 
his  curiosity  had  been  aroused.  He  requested  information 
on  both  the  Cdntainer  Corporation  of  America  and  Kaiser 
Steel  Corporation.  Kaiser  was  no  longer  available,  but  we 
sent  him  literature  on  two  CCA  plants— the  folding  carton 
and  corrugated  cardboard  divisions.  In  a  letter  of  July  28, 
Caro  stated  that  he  was  extremely  interested  in  visiting 
CCA  and  wished  to  come  to  Los  Angeles  for  that  purpose. 
By  this  time,  however,  Tony  Smith's  project  was  underway 
at  CCA.  We  requested  that  they  take  on  a  second  artist,  but 
CCA  declined  to  commit  their  resources  further. 


John  Chamberlain's  name  emerged  repeatedly  during  our 
early  staff  selection  sessions,  through  late  1968  and  early 
1969,  as  an  artist  whom  we  felt  might  do  something  extra- 
ordinary with— or  to— a  corporation.  We  had  no  special  pre- 
conception of  what  medium  he  might  wish  to  explore,  and 
as  it  developed  he  approached  the  project  in  ways  that 
could  hardly  have  been  predicted  based  on  his  past  work. 

It  wasn't  until  April,  1969,  that  we  finally  contacted 
Chamberlain;  Jane  Livingston  saw  him  at  his  New  York 
studio.  Chamberlain  at  that  time  had  been  working  on  a 
series  of  written  proposals  for  participatory  works.  Most  of 
these  would  simply  have  involved  designing  and  building 
objects  or  environmental  structures  of  foam,  wood  or  steel, 
within  which  the  spectator  would  move  or  manipulate 
props  in  specific  ways.  They  did  not  seem  especially  appro- 
priate to  A  &  T.  The  notion  of  doing  a  film  project,  with  a 
corporation  like  Ampex,  RCA  or  CBS,  was  also  discussed. 
It  seemed  worthwhile  to  have  Chamberlain  tour  Ampex,  in 
Redwood  City,  which  he  did  with  us  when  he  came  to  Los 
Angeles  in  May.  The  idea  John  had  chiefly  in  mind  when  he 
visited  the  Ampex  facility  was  something  suggested  to  him 
by  Douglas  Huebler;  Chamberlain  called  \t  42nd  Parallel, 
and  it  involved  making  video  tapes  in  each  of  fourteen 
towns  along  the  United  States  42nd  parallel,  then  showing 
these  tapes  simultaneously  on  fourteen  screens.  John  saw  at 
Ampex  a  demonstration  of  their  700  video  machine.  He 
was  left  with  a  feeling  of  ambivalence,  if  not  indifference 
about  seeing  through  a  project  there,  and  the  idea  was 
abandoned. 


The  next  day.  May  9,  1969,  Chamberlain  visited  the  Riker 
Laboratories  Division  of  Dart  Industries  with  JL.  Riker 
makes  and  packages  several  drugs  and  inhalant  medicines. 
He  had  no  specific  medium  or  project  proposal  in  mind, 
but  {Patron  Sponsor)  Dart  was  still  available,  in  theory  at 
least. 


On  the  way  from  the  Museum  to  the  Riker  plant  in  the  San 
Fernando  Valley,  Chamberlain  conceived  the  idea  of 
making  a  multiple  work  consisting  of  packaged  odors. 
These  would  be  chemically  formulated  to  simulate  particu- 
lar odors  of  his  choosing,  and  manufactured  in  the  form  of 
inhalers  or  sachets,  in  a  large  edition.  With  this  newly  con- 
ceived proposal  In  mind.  Chamberlain  toured  the  Riker  fa- 
cility and  asked  specifically  to  consult  with  a  chemist  there 
who  could  gauge  the  feasibility  of  implementing  such  a  pro- 
posal. Riker's  organic  chemist,  Francis  Petracek,  discussed 
the  problem  at  some  length  with  the  artist.  Petracek  indi- 
cated that  in  principle  it  would  indeed  be  possible  to  actual- 
ly gather  and  distill  odors.  He  mentioned  "the  smell  of 
downtown  Tokyo,"  which  prompted  Chamberlain  to  want 
to  extend  the  range  of  odors  beyond  simple  products  or 
substances  to  locations.  Petracek  demonstrated  to 
Chamberlain  samples  of  chemical  odors  commonly  known, 
notably  a  potion  which  strongly  evoked  dirty  socks.  We  sus- 
pected that  the  actual  process  of  travelling  with  technicians 


69 


A&T 


and  equipment  and  distilling  various  scents  would  be 
beyond  the  capability— or  degree  of  commitment— of  Riker 
or  any  other  division  of  Dart  Industries. 

Shortly  afterward,  Chamberlain  left  for  New  Mexico,  where 
he  was  shooting  his  film  Thumbsuck.  During  this  time  he 
wrote  up  a  formal  proposal  for  the  SniFFter  piece  and  sent 
it  to  us.  Our  dealings  with  Dart  Industries  on  this  project 
resulted  in  the  suggestion  that  Chamberlain  might  collabor- 
ate with  a  Florida-based  cosmetic  branch  of  the  corpora- 
tion, and  got  no  further.  The  SniFFter  proposal  was  then 
sent  to  International  Chemical  and  Nuclear  Corporation 
with  a  letter  mentioning  that  it  might  be  used  as  a  giveaway 
multiple  during  the  time  of  the  A  &  T  exhibition. 

SniFFter.  SniFFter  is  an  otfactory-stimulus-response 
environment  articulated  in  sets  and  units  proposed  by 
John  Chamberlain  through  the  research  and  production 
auspices  of  International  Chemical  and  Nuclear 
Corporation. 

A  list  of  kinds  and  types  of  odors  (specific  as  to  source, 
intrinsic  and  project  quality  and  similar  categories  for 
unit  modification)  is  presented.  Researchers  then  to  edit 
and  synthesize  a  given  number  of  odors.  The  original 
extraction  or  essence  and  the  produced  extraction  or 
essence  are  both  utilized  in  the  final  articulation. 

SniFFter  is  proposed  as  a  three-unit  multiple:  Unit  A  to 
consist  of  100,000  inhalers  of  27  different  odors;  Unit  B 
to  consist  of  1,000  humidors,  each  containing  69  in- 
halers of  various  strange,  pleasant,  unpleasant  and  other- 
wise uncommon  odors;  Unit  C,  a  small  number  of  humi- 
dors containing  69  inhalers  containing  the  original  ex- 
tractions and  essences. 

The  numbers  involved  might  be  modified  as  might  be  the 
types  of  odors. 

Unit  A  is  proposed  as  a  giveaway,  a  random  occurence 
for  the  Osaka  Exposition.  The  number  is  arbitrary  and 
may  be  expanded  or  reduced. 

Unit  B  contains  a  multiple  programming  of  odor 
qualities,  perhaps  color-coded  to  indicate  the  'tone' 
quality  and  general  area  of  a  specifically  included  odor. 
Unit  B  takes  its  source  in  the  list  of  apprehended  odors; 
Unit  A  may  borrow  from  that  list;  and  Unit  C  locates 
the  original  odor  as  essence  or  extract. 

Unit  C  locates  and  presents  the  original  odor  essence  or 
extract  from  which  the  others  may  be  derived.  The 
common  and  specific  odors  are  presented  here.  With  a 
the  presentation  becomes  specific  and  with  an  uncommon 
odor  the  designated  odor  remains  specific  in  itself.  I  surmise 
that  there  is  a  probability  that  certain  odors  in  the  specific 
range  would  contain  the  occasion,  diet,  psyche-factors,  and 


other  conditional  factors,  the  odor  becoming  unique  at  its 
source,  and  subtle  in  its  difference  from  the  general  in  that 
area.  Similarly,  gasoline  would  be  of  a  particular  variety, 
cow  manure  from  a  particular  place— say,  the  Chicago 
stockyards  in  July. 

Certain  odors  would  be  undistinguishable  from  others  until 
a  sophistication  (re-education,  orientation)  in  detection  of 
peculiarities  of  particular  odor  origin  is  acquired  by  the 
sniffer  of  the  SniFFter. 

In  SniFFter  presentation,  a  booklet  containing  the  molec- 
ular structure  of  each  component  odor  on  a  separate  page 
would  accompany  the  unit  presentation.  IVIore  research— the 
sophistication  in  odor  perception  among  the  blind,  the  de- 
tection of  odors  by  animals  apparently  unavailable  to 
humans  and  so  on— may  present  many  possibilities  in  the 
restimulation  of  the  adventures  of  the  nose. 

EOP=Extra-Olfactory  Perception 

SniFFter  list  of  proposed  odors: 

1.  Negro  revival  meeting 

2.  baby  milk  throw-up 

3.  Castor  Oil 

4.  burning  cellulose 

5.  arsenic 

6.  dill 

7.  adhesive  tape 

8.  French  roast  coffee 

9.  Lew  Alcindor's  tennis  shoes  after  a  game 

10.  third  floor  of  the  L.A.  County  Art  Museum 

1 1.  mother's  milk 

12.  motorcycle  race  track 

13.  downtown  Miami  Beach 

14.  Fulton  Fish  Market 

15.  ozone 

16.  reptiles— cobras,  etc.  could  be  from  a  specific  zoo 

17.  second  grade  classroom 

18.  Campbell's  Vegetable  Soup 

19.  Bowery  flop  house— NYC 

20.  dirty  socks— specific 

21.  downtown  Las  Vegas 

22.  San  Diego  Zoo's  rarest  animal 

23.  gasoline 

24.  new  car 

25.  newly  lit  match 

26.  female  skin  in  sun 

27.  cocaine 

28.  corpse 

29.  amyl  nitrite 

30.  singed  hair 

31.  sea  bass 

32.  billiard  hall 

33.  sweat  and  copper— (pennies  in  hand) 

34.  marshland.  Savannah,  Ga. 


70 


35. 

air  at  11 ,000  feet  in  New  Mexico 

36. 

rubber 

37. 

operation  room 

38. 

electric  welding  rod 

39. 

leather 

40. 

Chinatown— San  Francisco 

41. 

musk 

42. 

cut  clover 

43. 

German  Shepherd 

44. 

marijuana 

45. 

Siamese  cats 

46. 
47. 

wet  paper 
paint 

48. 

nail  polish  remover 

49. 

clay 

50. 

photographic  fixer 

51. 

New  York  taxi  cab 

52. 

orange  soda 

53. 

pigskin 

54. 

scorched  nylon 

55. 

nicotine  and  skin 

56. 

Courvoisier 

57. 

Sicilian  kitchen 

58. 

cordite 

59. 

Rembrandt  painting 

60. 

American  flag  at  Pendleton,  California 
Base 

Marine 

61. 

burnt  toast— specif  ic 

62. 

Chino  Women's  Prison  Cottage  #13 

63. 

moonshot  at  Cape  Kennedy 

64. 

Pittsburgh  steel  mill 

65. 

dirty  sponge 

66. 

city  dump  Tampa,  Florida 

67. 

bakery 

68. 

Catholic  Church— Specific 

69. 

beehive 

70. 

sauna  bath 

71. 

dry  cleaners 

72. 

mice 

73. 

wrestling  arena— specific 

74. 

butane 

75. 

OK  Corral -1969 

76. 

cough  medicine 

77. 

sheep 

78. 

toads 

79. 

wet  fur 

80. 

bergamot 

81. 

vanilla 

82. 

oil  refinery 

83. 

ashtray 

84. 

precinct  station— specific 

85. 

snuff 

86. 

face  powder 

87. 

bad  ale 

88. 

chalk 

89. 

Bridgid  Berlin's  ink  pad 

90. 

heather 

91. 

downtown  Venice,  Italy 

92. 

money 

93. 

menthol 

94. 

eucalyptus 

95. 

bamboo 

96. 

Fillmore  East— Concert  Night 

97. 

Charlie  McCarthy 

98. 

Larry  Bell's  studio 

99. 

Hostess  Cupcakes 

100. 

mildew 

101. 

Max's  Kansas  City  disco 

102. 

etc.  .  .  . 

International  Chemical  and  Nuclear  Corporation,  whose 
main  research  facility  is  at  Irvine,  California,  referred  us  to 
their  strong,  Cobb,  Arnder  pharmaceutical  division  in  Sun- 
land,  California,  as  a  potential  facility  for  collaboration 
with  Chamberlain.  There  were  several  telephone  conversa- 
tions with  the  manager  of  this  plant,  but  we  were  unable  to 
elicit  a  commitment  to  pursue  the  project  beyond  this.  ICN 
had,  interestingly  enough,  been  most  eager  to  join  with 
A  &  T.  Their  involvement  actually  got  no  further  than  this 
unsatisfactory  exchange  and  a  tour  of  their  facility  by  Mark 
di  Suvero. 

Chamberlain  was  planning  to  return  to  Los  Angeles  from 
Santa  Fe  in  August,  and  was  definitely  interested  in  pursu- 
ing our  open  offer  to  work  with  a  corporation.  We  suggest- 
ed the  availability  of  two  radically  different  facilities:  one 
was  a  division  of  Norris  Industries  which  makes  porcelain 
bathroom  fixtures  and  enamel  coated  bathtubs  (JL  and  HG 
had  both  toured  this  plant  and  were  intrigued,  not  just  with 
all  those  toilets  but  also  with  the  huge  kilns  used  to  bake 
them);  the  other  was  the  Rand  Corporation,  which  had 
already  taken  Larry  Bell  in  residence  but  were  willing  to 


71 


A&T 


take  on  another  artist.  Chamberlain  immediately  opted  for 
Rand,  where  he  was  to  spend  six  weeks.  He  was  persistently 
avoiding  the  idea  of  making  sculptural  objects  as  such,  and 
continued  to  think  in  terms  of  participatory  works  in  gen- 
eral. In  response  to  a  letter  sent  in  May,  1970,  from  MT  re- 
questing comments  about  the  artists'  retrospective  views  on 
their  experience  with  A&T,  Chamberlain  said,  answering 
the  question  "Why  were  you  initially  interested  in  partici- 
pating in  ART  AND  TECHNOLOGY?": 

I'm  initially  interested  in  anything  I  don't  know  about. 
I'm  interested  because  I  need  something  to  lean  on.  And 
any  material  or  physical  contact,  mental  contact,  what- 
ever has  possibilities  for  lessons.  The  idea  being  that  as 
artists  we  tend  to  confuse  and  create  chaos  involving 
these  facilities  so  as  to  come  out  on  some  other  side. 

Brownlee  Haydon,  Assistant  to  the  President  of  the  Rand 
Corporation,  who  served  as  our  principle  contact  there 
throughout  our  mutual  dealings,  had  said  in  a  letter  written 
to  us  in  February,  1968, 

We  think  Rand  has  something  special  to  offer  the  crea- 
tive artist:  an  intellectual  atmosphere  and  the  stimula- 
tion of  being  amid  creative  individuals  working  in  many 
disciplines.  In  this  milieu,  the  artist  may  find  influences 
on  his  work  apart  from  the  other  'materials'  that  he  may 
discover  in  the  Rand  environment. 

It  would  appear  that  Chamberlain's  reasons  for  working  at 
Rand  and  Rand's  attitude  in  receiving  an  artist  would  have 
been  fundamentally  compatible. 

On  August  7,  John  Chamberlain  visited  Rand  and  spent  an 
hour  or  two  with  Robert  Specht  (Haydon  was  out  of 
town),  during  which  interview  a  great  deal  of  mutual  baffle- 
ment prevailed.  John  was  then  given  an  office  to  use  as  he 
saw  fit,  and  left  to  his  own  devices. 

In  a  letter  of  April,  1970,  Haydon  described  in  brief  the 
extent  of  Rand's  contact  with  Chamberlain  from  his  point 
of  view: 

Rand  made  an  office  available  to  John  Chamberlain,  and 
provided  the  small  amount  of  secretarial  help  needed  to 
prepare  various  memoranda  circulated  to  the  staff 
inviting  their  participation,  ideas,  etc.  Some  staff  mem- 
bers 'dropped  in'  on  John  to  talk  about  his  and  their 
ideas— but  it  would  be  difficult  to  put  any  number  on 
this  interaction. 

In  a  meeting  early  in  September,  1969,  Chamberlain  talked 
about  the  progress  of  the  collaboration  to  date  (he'd  been 
working  for  about  three  weeks).  He  said, 

I  couldn't  make  any  headway  in  the  beginning.  I  suggest- 
ed that  Rand  should  dissolve  the  corporation,  or  cut  off 
the  phones  for  one  day,  or  have  everyone  come  out  in 
the  patios  and  we'd  take  some  pictures  for  a  day.  None 
of  these  things  got  any  response  .... 


I  also  thought  of  doing  a  thing  with  a  blown-up  [aerial- 
view]  photograph  of  Rand.  I'd  airbush  out  the  existing 
building  ....  But  it  might  not  really  be  all  that  amusing, 
or  mean  anything.  Because  I'm  not  really  against  the 
concept  of  Rand,  its  uniqueness  since  1946,  through  '56, 
even  until  1960.  Past  '60,  it's  gotten,  evidently,  some- 
what stodgy  and  constricting.  The  humor  [in  my  ap- 
proach] is  supposed  to  pull  some  of  that  constriction 
out.  But  I  don't  know  about  this— and  I'm  not  pretend- 


72 


ing  to  be  some  sort  of  psychiatrist  at  Rand  ....  But  I'm 
there,  and  I'd  like  to  deal  with  them  ....  I  can't  get  into 
any  of  their  circuits.  After  all,  what  do  I  know  about 
weather  modification?  What  do  I  know  about  cloud  for- 
mations? What  do  I  know  about  the  war  in  Viet  Nam? 
What  do  I  know  about  the  psychology  of  reflexes  in 
New  York  City  when  faced  with  a  police  car?  I  don't 
know  anything  about  the  police  car  syndrome  in  New 
York  City.  However,  it  does  seem  that  you  can  deal  with 
the  people.  The  people  are  uptight,  I  feel.  They're  very 
1953  .  .  .  you  know,  like  the  girls  wear  too  much  under- 
wear. On  the  other  hand,  the  few  under-30  people  tend 
to  be  much  more  relaxed  .... 


the  form  of  "answers,"  for  John's  final  Rand  project. 
Describing  the  conception  and  early  results  of  this  idea 
during  the  September  9  taping  session.  Chamberlain  said. 
The  next  thing  I  did  was  sort  of  muddle  around,  talk  to 
people  ....  Mostly  through  talking  to  Irwin  Mann  [a 
Rand  consultant] ,  I  decided  to  go  for  answers.  Then  it 
occurred  to  me  that  they  might  answer  Jim  Byars' 
questions  [see  Byars  section] .  So  I  sent  out  question- 
naires, asking  for  answers.  Yesterday  and  today  I  got  my 
first  office-full.  I'm  getting  everything  from  'Drop  dead' 
to  'Why  don't  you  leave  Rand.'  I'm  not  getting  much,  in 
short,  that  I  can  use  ....  [1,  2,  3] 


Chamberlain  finally  decided  to  arrange  several  screenings  at 
Rand  of  his  film,  "The  Secret  Life  of  Hernando  Cortez," 
starring  Ultra  Violet  and  Taylor  Mead,  because,  he  said,  "It 
represents  a  piece  of  work  done  in  defiance  of  a  particular 
structure."  The  film  was  run  once  a  day  for  three  days,  and 
was  then  discontinued.  According  to  the  artist,  "Word  must 
have  gotten  to  Washington,  D.C.  that  Rand  was  showing 
dirty  flicks  on  lunch  hour."  A  detailed  version  of  the 
"banning"  of  Hernando  Cortez  was  supplied  to  us  some 
months  after  Chamberlain's  experience  at  Rand  by  a 
resident  Consultant  in  Rand's  Communications  office.  She 
was  interested  in  and  sympathetic  to  John,  and  was  con- 
cerned that  in  documenting  the  project,  we  not  portray  the 
Rand  personnel  as  being  narrow-minded  and  hostile  in  their 
response  to  the  artist.  (She  freely  said,  however,  "There  is 
certainly  a  large  contingent  of  very  prosaic  people  here  who 
are  deep  into  the  discipline  they  practice,  and  who  are 
frightened  by  play.  It  was  difficult  for  them  to  see  John  as 
a  provocateur,  an  eccentric,  a  seer— people  couldn't  make 
the  leap  out  of  conventional  discourse  into  his  imaginative 
world.") 

She  described  the  events  surrounding  the  presentation  of 
Chamberlain's  film.  It  was  originally  scheduled  to  be  shown 
on  five  consecutive  days,  during  lunch  hour,  for  the  benefit 
of  any  Rand  employees  who  wished  to  view  it.  It  was 
shown  for  three  days,  and,  she  said,  "accepted  by  the 
majority  of  the  people  who  saw  it— on  the  third  day  there 
was  even  some  applause."  However,  there  were  several 
complaints  from  staff  people  who  felt  it  was  "dirty,  cor- 
rupt, and  disgusting."  A  meeting  was  held  among  several 
supervisory  personnel  who  have  received  complaints,  and, 
with  the  rationale,  according  to  our  informant,  that  "Rand 
must  attempt  to  preserve  some  sense  of  decorum"— it  was 
decided  to  hold  no  further  showings  of  the  movie.  In  any 
event,  a  considerable  number  of  Rand  employees  saw  the 
film,  and  judging  from  the  amount  and  nature  of  their 
various  reactions  to  it,  the  experience  influenced  their  view 
of  the  artist  significantly.  These  reactions  were  manifested 
specifically  in  response  to  a  questionnaire  circulated  by 
John  after  the  film  screenings. 


TO:  Everyone  at  Rand 

FROM:         John  Chamberlain,  Artist  In  Residence 

SUBJECT;    ANSWERS 


I'm  searching  for  ANSV^/ERS.    Not  questions! 


If  you  have  any,  will  you  please  fill  In  below,  and  send  them  to  mc 
in  Room  1138. 


J 


V-^-W><y 


.^Z^ 


The  purpose  of  the  questionnaire  was  to  elicit  material,  in 


■'■*-'•  Everyone  at  Rand 

FROM:         John  Chamberlain,  Artist  in  Residence 

SUBJECT:    ANSWERS 


I'm  searching  for  ANSWERS.     Not  questions! 

If  you  have  any,  will  you  please  fill  in  below,  and  send  them  to  me 
in  Room  1 138  . 


THERE  IS  ONLY  ONE  ANSWER: 

YOU  HAVE  A  BEAUTI  FUL  SENSE 

OF  COLOR   AND  A 

WARPED, 

TRASHY  IDEA  OF  WHAT 

BEAUTY  AND 

^. 

Italent  is. 

T 

Tl-U-^JXS 


^r2c4^^ 


74 


TO: 
FROM: 


Everyone  at  Rand 

John  Chamberlain,  Artist  in  Residence 


SUBJECT;    ANSWERS 


I'm  searching  for  ANSWERS.    Not  questions! 


If  you  have  any,  will  you  please  fill  in  below,  and  send  them  to  me 
in  Room  1136. 


Because  of  some  of  the  responses  to  his  earlier  memo 

asking  for  'answers,'  I  think  everyone  should 

understand: 

1 .  John  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  experimental  re- 
decoration  of  Rand's  halls  and  offices  (see  Roger 
Levien). 


TO:  Everyone  at  Rand 

FROM:         John  Chamberlain,  ArUst-ln -Residence 

SUBJECT:     MORE  ANSWERS 


T^. 


f     Oavs 


3 


|-\-^\A^m\»  H 


0<M^/\^ 


...  I  would  have  liked  maybe  to  use  the  answers  to 
express  a  viewpoint  about  Rand  people  in  terms  of  their 
intelligence.  Because  I'm  not  so  sure  about  it— I  mean,  I 
see  people  who  speak  Spanish  and  misspell  simple  words, 
and  have  sort  of  dumb  fifth  grade  attitudes  about  every- 
thing. 

Though  John  felt  in  the  beginning  that  the  answers  might 
correspond  to  Byars'  questions,  and  perhaps  even  be  used  in 
conjunction  with  them  as  an  art  work,  the  two  artists  did 
not  actually  coordinate  their  efforts,  and  partly  for  this 
reason  the  end  results  of  their  projects  are  essentially  un- 
related. Both  were  to  some  degree  unsuccessful  in  drawing 
enough  interesting  material  from  their  "subjects"  to  consti- 
tute a  satisfactory  artistic  product,  and  thus  often  resorted 
to  their  own  inventions  in  working  out  the  final 
presentations. 

One  of  the  factors  accounting  for  the  depressingly  hostile 
tone  of  many  of  the  replies  to  John's  first  questionnaire 
was  simply  that  instead  of  giving  John  disinterested  (or 
interested)  answers,  his  subjects  instead  used  the  question- 
naire as  a  vehicle  for  conveying  their  resentment,  or  fear,  of 
the  film.  In  an  attempt  to  reverse  this  trend,  Brownlee 
Haydon,  at  John's  request,  sent  out  the  following  memo, 
with  a  second  version  of  the  "questionnaire"  drafted  by 
John: 

Before  he  left  for  the  East,  John  Chamberlain  gave  me 

the  attached  memo  for  distribution. 


I  would  like  to  thank  everyone  who  has  participated  in  my  quest 
(or  answers , 

Now,  I  would  like  to  be  rr^ore  explicit.    I  had  hoped  for  a  more  n^ ' 

specific  poetic  imagery  to  Induce,  or  suggest,  an  alternative  to  ^^ 

thinking  if  or  when  asked  to  pair  with  It,  a  question  or  statement,        C/^  \ 

The  altruistic  answer  is  nice,  but  less  interesting. .  .the  -y-1  . 

challenging  being  from  without  rather  than  from  within,  ^ 

While  in  the  East,  I  expect  to  visit  Rand's  New  York  and  Washington 
offices  seeking  answers  .  My  intention  is  to  return  to  Santa  Monica 
In  a  week  or  so. 


John  Chamberla: 


2.  John  is  a  guest  artist-in-residence,  sponsored  by  and 
paid  by  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art. 

3.  His  question  about  answers  was  not  intended  to  elicit 
reviews  of  or  comments  about  his  film. 

The  response  to  this  memo  was  scarcely  more  satisfactory 
than  the  previous  round  of  "answers."  [4,  5] 

Finally,  John  made  up  a  small  edition  of  more  elaborate 
"questionnaires,"  in  which  he  listed  a  number  of  "answers" 
formulated  principally  by  himself,  and  requested  that  his 
subjects  comment  on  each  one.  Chamberlain's  "answers" 
are  in  bold  type;  the  subject's  responses  are  written  above 
each  of  the  artist's  phrases.  The  following  are  excerpts  from 
one  of  a  dozen  responses  to  this  lengthy  questionnaire 
received  by  Chamberlain.  [6] 


Mr.   Chambci 


din: 


One  of  the  functions  of  Che  artlsc  Is  to  ccrrrzirticate. 
I  can't  find  one  person  who  understood  either  your 
first  eonnunlcotloo  or  your  second.  We  would  be 
happy  to  ahare  our  aplrttual  experiences  with  you 
IE  we  knew  what  you  are  trying  to  express.  Could 
you  please  rephrase  paragraph  92  (Ernest  Hemingway 
vou  ain't!)  so  we  con  understand  what  the  hell  you 
ore  driving  at — or  do  you  know  yourself? 


Now,  i  wouia  use  to  be  more  explicit.    I  had  hoped  for  a  more 
specific  poetic  Imagery  to  induce,  or  suggest,  an  alternative  to 
thinking  if  or  when  asked  to  pair  with  it,  a  question  or  statement. 
The  altruistic  answer  is  nice ,  tnit  less  interesting . .  .the 
challenging  being  from  without  rather  than  from  within. 

While  in  the  East,  I  expect  to  visit  Rand's  New  York  and  Washington 
offices  seeking  answers.  My  intention  is  to  return  to  Santa  Monica 
in  a  week  or  so. 


Definition  of  Habste 
expression" 


John  Chamberla. 


5  Dictionary:      "character lied  by   full   clear 


■*iiirfdiiii;ma*aMaN»**ii— II    - 


So  is  life.  The  correspondence  between  the  two  is  a  function  of 

self-image.  Only  an  optimist  has  a  heaven.  "Adequate"  implies  fulfillment  to  some 
degree...  how  can  you  be  fulfilled  and  still  disillusioned? 


Divinity  Is  adequate  dlsllluslomnent. 


Computers  are  impersonal  fellows.  The  whirr  and  cycle  and  hum  of  contentment 

comes  from  knowing  that  they  are  digesting  a  delicious  data  base.  The  data  is;however, 

a  surrogate  for  truth;  hence  the  disk  represents  lifelessness.  Death  is  cold  and  dank. 

,  ,  , .  ,   .   .         Dirty  comes  from  not  dusting. 
Dirty  dank  cold  disk  taste. ■ ■ . 


The  concept  of  equality  implies  a  condition  of  parity  and  balance.  The  essential 
consideration;  however,  is  that  equality  does  not  mean  the  same  as  identicalness.  It 
implies  equivalence  on  a  scale  weighted  with  different  significance  vectors.  I7e  don't 
know  how  to  weigh  the  vectors;  and  that  is  what  the  argument  is  all  about. 


There   is  argument  only  in  equality. 


Countries  are   environments.    They  have    their  own  sub-sets.    Objects   are   entities  and 
concepts.   We  articulate  concepts.    We   fight  in  environments.    Perhaps  we  should  try  to 
articulate  environments  and  fight  in  concepts. 


Throw  the  ob.iect  from  one   country  to  another. 


Look  at   the  edge.   Thats  what  really  counts.    It  is  gray. 


Black  on  one  side  and  white  on  the  other. 


The  way  through  is  also  the  way  in.  You  always  go  from  something  to  something, 
capturing  a  bit  of  each  place  you  have  been  through.  It  includes  ideas,  places,  eind 
space.  You  cannot  wait  to  long  in  any  media.  You  will  suffocate.  The  way  through  life 
is  also  the  way  into  life. 


The  way  throup.h  is  the  way  out. 


Destroying  mediocraty  while  sub-optimizing  existence. 


Competitive  elimination. 


Are  we  really  big  enough  to  challenge  our  environment?  Cadillacs  and  expressways 
say  yes.  Starving  people  and  pollution  say  no.  Are  we  a  population  of  clubfoots? 


The  foot  determines  the  fit. 


76 


There  is  no  doubt  that  Chamberlain  made  significant  im- 
pact on  those  Rand  people  with  whom  he  had  more  than 
passing  contact.  Even  now,  a  year  after  his  residence  at 
Rand,  there  keeps  emerging  commentary  about  the  artist 
from  various  sources  there. 

A  mathematician  recently  characterized  the  artist's  ap- 
proach as, 

.  .  .  thinking  maybe  there  was  a  way  of  hunching  your 
way  through  science  instinctively  or  with  your  emotions 
without  bothering  with  a  bunch  of  mathematical  theor- 
ems. Maybe  you  could  get  at  things  through  your  senses. 
Some  people  here  with  more  dogmatic  and  more  formal- 
ized backgrounds  just  didn't  want  to  talk  about  it ...  . 
For  me  it  was  a  refreshing  and  welcome  interlude.  It  was 
refreshing  to  talk  with  him  and  see  a  man  more  oriented 
to  talking  with  people  through  impressions,  forms  and 
sound  rather  than  graphs,  mathematical  formulas  and  so 
forth.  At  the  same  time,  his  idea  of  communicating 
science  through  art  rather  than  through  the  written  word 
seems  remote  even  though  it  was  definitely  worth  discus- 
sing and  probing.  I  don't  say  one  day  it  couldn't  be 
done,  but  that  now  it  seems  remote. 

And  a  computer  specialist  said, 

I  think  John's  visit  came  to  nothing.  In  general,  the 
interaction  was  low.  He  didn't  make  any  effort  to  meet 
many  people.  He  installed  himself  in  the  office  he  was 
using  or  out  on  a  patio  with  a  tape  recorder  and  let  a  few 
anointed  come  to  him.  He  didn't  walk  around  and  just 
talk  to  a  stranger.  And  not  many  people  came  to  him. 

People  remember  his  film,  but  I  don't  think  many  dug  it. 
We're  too  literal  to  get  very  far  into  something  like  that. 
Literalness  is  the  nature  of  science  as  a  discipline. 

He'd  have  been  a  lot  better  off  if  they'd  put  him  in  a 
place  with  materials.  We  have  no  materials  and  no  pro- 
cess and  few  who  are  willing  to  talk  in  McLuhanesque 
form. 


My  opinion  is  that  the  artist  thinks  he  can  create  some- 
thing by  turning  to  technology.  He  wants  the  technician 
along  to  explain  how  things  work,  but  then  he  wants  the 
technician  to  stand  aside.  And  he  wants  the  scientist 
only  in  the  role  of  technician.  I  guess  what  happens  is, 
they  don't  want  anybody  else's  help.  They  just  want  you 
to  show  them  how  to  turn  on  the  machine. 

There  wasn't  much  catalytic  effect.  It's  too  bad  that 
something  nicer  didn't  happen  by  way  of  people  who 
like  art  meeting  others  who  like  art. 

Most  of  the  ideas  around  here  are  not  all  that  abstract. 
We  can  say  pretend  such  and  such  is  true  and  let  the 
notion  carry  us  where  it  will.  But  wondering  why  a  guy 
would  crush  auto  bodies  and  call  it  sculpture  is  a  differ- 
ent game.  Abstract  the  way  the  scientist  means  it  is 
perhaps  a  different  world  from  the  one  we  live  in,  but 
nonetheless  a  well-defined  world.  I  don't  really  know 
what  the  artist  is  doing.  Maybe  pleasing  himself. 

Chamberlain's  final  Rand  Piece  consists  of  statements  sug- 
gested to  him  from  various  sources  (few  of  his  "answers" 
are  entirely  original,  and  many  can  be  recognized  as,  for 
example,  McLuhanese  in  altered  form),  but  the  statements 
seldom  came  to  him  directly  from  Rand  personnel  in  the 
course  of  his  questionnairing  process.  John  hoped  that 
either  Rand  or  the  Museum  would  publish  the  Rand  Piece 
in  a  relatively  large  edition,  but  neither  institution  had  the 
means  to  do  this.  At  the  time  of  this  writing,  the  work  is 
still  unpublished,  except  for  its  inclusion  here 

The  following  are  eight  excerpts  from  the  work,  which  is 
thirty-four  pages  long,  divided  into  two  sections.  The  first 
part,  called  "WHAT  ARE  THE  CIRCUMSTANCES  TO 
THESE  RESPONSES,"  consists  of  answers;  part  two, 
"WHAT  IS  THE  RESPONSE  TO  THESE  CIRCUM- 
STANCES," consists  of  questions.  It  is  prefaced  by  this 
statement  by  Chamberlain:  "The  Rand  piece  is  constructed 
to  be  used  by  anyone  or  groups  as  far  as  the  imagination  or 
curiosity  can  carry  it.  All  possibilities  are  considered  to  be 
valid  at  least  by  me."  [7-14] 


77 


A&T 


Baby  dumpling 

You  can  find  out  who  your  friends  are  by  seeing  liow  they  take  it. 

Coal-black  habit;  empty  creature. 

Fairly  Kosher. 

His  trouble  could  be  yours  or  mine. 

It's  important  that  everyone  cheat. 


11 

Which  quantity  is  purifiable? 

When  was  congruency  established? 

Is  arbitration  possible  under  these  conditions? 

What  are  the  shades  of  waiting? 

What  will  keep  the  dancers  clean? 

Who  is  responsible  for  the  preservation  of  rhetoric? 


8 

Once  the  problem  is  posed,  it  is  insoluble. 

Go  to  Atlanta  and  make  a  right  turn. 

For  the  size  of  his  attitude,  he  has  quite  a  stance. 

A  hot  Danish  process. 

The  hinge  that  holds  them  together  is  as  real  as  the  line  that  divides 

them. 
Freedom  to  breed  will  ruin  the  egg. 


A  box  of  fat. 

Purple,  pink  and  oblivious. 

Fifteen  carpeted  steps. 

All  legs  and  no  backbone. 

The  ULTRA  naked  astronaut. 

Cold  grey  honey. 

10 

Anguish,  remorse  and  woe. 

They're  always  doing  something  Chinese  to  it. 

Between  the  sheets. 

By  jiggling  your  horoscope. 

Black  is  the  color— none  is  the  number. 

It  was  inserted  in  the  wrong  end. 


12 

Where  is  love's  mansion? 

Where  does  the  progression  initiate? 

Is  this  the  time  of  the  assassins? 

How  did  you  get  past  the  union  authorities? 

When  was  the  siege  accomplished? 

Have  you  committed  to  memory  the  paradigms  of  concern? 

13 
Which  works  do  you  seek  of  the  ones  you  serve? 
Is  it  endlessly  extended? 
What  will  the  song  be  like? 
Is  eleven  enough? 

How  many  pictures  are  concealed  in  this  rabbit? 
Why  don't  you  do  what  you're  watching? 

14 

How  is  it  wise  to  leave  and  enter  at  the  same  port? 

What  is  the  dialogue  of  conduct? 

Which  map  describes  the  territory? 

In  what  way  is  continuity  related  to  direction? 

Which  performances  are  protected  by  their  ambience? 

What  are  the  underlying  sentiments  of  contrivance? 

Jane  Livingston 


Christo 

Born  Gabrovo,  Bulgaria,  1935 
Resident  New  York  City 


Ron  Cooper 

Born  New  York  City,  1943 
Resident  Venice,  California 


78 


In  November,  1968,  Christo  wrote  to  us: 

I  am  very  anxious  to  have  a  5600  cubic  meter  package 
erected  in  the  United  States  and  my  friend  Bill  Copley 
suggested  that  I  interest  you  in  this  project. 

I  also  send  you  two  photographs  of  another  project:  15 
miles  packed  coast  that  could  be  realized  simultaneously 
with  the  erection  of  the  air  package. 

These  two  gigantic  projects  should  be  presented  by  the 
Los  Angeles  County  Museum  as  an  exhibition  where  the 
Museum's  activities  go  beyond  the  usual  Museum  space. 


Los  Angeles  artist  Ron  Cooper  came  to  us  in  October,  1970 
to  discuss  two  proposals  for  environmental  art  works. 
Cooper,  consulting  with  various  experts  on  his  own,  had 
satisfied  himself  that  the  projects  as  he  conceived  them 
would  work  technically,  but  needed  financial  and  technical 
assistance. 

One  work  involved  projecting  variously  colored  light  from 
several  points  around  the  perimeter  of  a  room  so  that  the 
respective  shafts  would  converge  in  the  center,  forming  a 
white,  cube-shaped  configuration  [1]  ;  the  second  proposal 
entailed  projecting  colored  light  into  a  reflective  pan  of 
water  on  the  floor,  so  as  to  direct  mixed  light  beams  from 
the  water  surface  onto  a  wall,  filling  a  rectangular  area  with 
white  light.  [2] 


We  were  intrigued  with  the  ideas  as  he  presented  them  to 
us,  and  it  happened  that  G.E.,  whose  previous  collaboration 
with  Dan  Flavin  had  ended  unfulfilled,  was  still  potentially 
available  and  willing  to  take  on  another  artist.  We  therefore 
sent  Cooper  to  G.E.'s  Nela  Park  Advanced  Lighting 
Division,  where  he  presented  his  projects  and  consulted 
chiefly  with  lighting  engineer  Terry  McGowan.  Later,  G.E. 
indicated  that,  although  they  were  technically  able  to  real- 
ize one  or  both  art  works,  they  would  or  could  not  expend 
sufficient  funds  to  bring  it  to  completion. 


79 


A&T 


Frangois  Dallegret 

Born  Morocco,  1937 
Resident  Montreal 


80 


In  January,  1969,  while  Frangois  Dallegret  was  visiting  the 
Los  Angeles  area,  we  invited  him  to  tour  several  corpora- 
tions. Hal  Glicksman  accompanied  the  artist  to  Ampex  Cor- 
poration where  they  met  with  Dr.  Charles  Spitzer  and  saw 
various  laboratories  in  the  Advanced  Technology  Depart- 
ment. Dallegret  was  anxious  to  work  on  a  relatively  large 
scale  using  electronic  transducing  devices  to  react  to  exter- 
nal stimuli.  Ampex  could  not  handle  a  project  in  the  scale 
Dallegret  outlined.  Next  he  and  HG  saw  Kaiser  Steel,  which 
Dallegret  found  exciting,  because  of  the  obvious  potential 
for  giant  scale  works. 


In  early  February  he  submitted  his  proposal: 

The  idea  will  consist  of  setting  (in  as  many  different 
ways  as  possible)  in,  on  and  out  of  the  Museum,  through 
the  plazas  and  parks  around,  a  series  of  hard  collapsible 
'skins'  in  tension  out  of  fixed  but  mobile  containers,  to 
define  directions,  areas  and  volumes  .  .  .  and  surprises. 


And  later  in  March,  he  elaborated  on  this  idea  in  another 
note  accompanied  by  a  series  of  drawings: 

You  will  find  enclosed  three  sketches— very  quick  visuali- 
zations of  the  way  I  may  use  metal  'rigid/flexible'  . .  . 
The  structure  being  hinged  and  the  skin  rolled.  The  final 
concept  should  come  from  the  result  of  decisions  in  the 
analysis  of  the  fabricator  and  myself  and  yourself.  To 
face  the  site  and  its  people  to  come  to  a  right  'dimen- 
sion' of  the  'thing.' 
In  July,  Dallegret  wrote  saying  that  two  steel  manufacturers 
in  New  York  were  interested  in  his  proposals;  he  wanted  to 
work  with  one  or  both  of  them  under  the  A  &  T  program. 
This  did  not  prove  feasible. 


Channa  Davis 

Born  Los  Angeles,  1932 
Resident  Tarzana,  California 


A&T 


Late  in  1968,  Channa  Davis  presented  a  proposal  entitled 
Suspension  of  Vertical  Beams  Moving  in  Space,  which 
would  employ  time  and  light  in  choreographed  movements 
based  on  a  modular  grid  system.  The  piece  would  consist  of 
eight  cylindrical  beams  made  of  clear  plexiglass,  with  pro- 
grammed movements  in  each.  The  beams  were  to  be  suspen- 
ded by  magnetism  or  jets  of  air. 

Movement:  In  a  vertical  direction  one  foot  for  every 
move  and  each  foot  of  movement  takes  twelve  seconds. 
Beam  then  remains  in  that  position  for  a  minimum  of 
three  seconds  and  a  maximum  of  sixteen  seconds. 

Light:  Illusion  of  light  beam  pushing  the  beam  up  from 
lower  position,  suspending  the  beam  in  middle  position 
and  pushing  the  beam  down  from  the  highest. 

5  intensities  of  light— 5  movements  to  beam  except  at 
completion  of  cycle. 

4  lights  for  each  beam— 1  sputter  and  1  high  intensity 
above  and  below. 

#5  brightest  light— #1  weakest  light. 


:    P^^lt^lKJ*-   FOIL  El^ffT  OC/Vm. 


'\ 


A 

rt 

/ 

/./?                  1 

JV/ 

/93fJ*7S. 

,  v.vr            s.fr 

i  er 

i?r               i 

~     ~8eAmi-T//S/K.      lOCATIonJ   lAJ  T/MC   •*■   ^aSfTfCfO   iiv   F£eT 

•^\~PiiL£CT/QnJ   THf*T  ScAm  0{>\^£.S 

— ^—   U'0C/7>     tftfiWtfU*-   LfC-MT 


/i/i^^    //t/Tfi 


Ron  Davis 

Born  Santa  Monica,  California,  1937 
Resident  Los  Angeles 


Walter  De  Maria 

Born  Albany,  California,  1935 

Resident  New  York  City 


82 


Ron  Davis  originally  spoke  with  Hal  Glicksman  in  the 
Spring  of  1969  about  doing  a  project  for  A  &  T.  Davis  was 
intrigued  with  the  possibility  of  using  computers  to  assist 
him  in  plotting  complicated  geometric  figures,  of  the  kind 
he  has  used  for  several  years  in  his  resin  paintings.  Largely 
because  of  Davis'  interest  in  this  project,  we  spent  consider- 
able time  and  effort  negotiating  with  California  Computer 
Products,  Inc.,  in  an  attempt  to  solicit  their  participation. 
(Cal  Comp  had  been  visited  in  early  April  by  Eduardo 
Paolozzi.)  In  May,  HG  arranged  for  the  corporation  to 
make  for  the  artist  a  sample  computer  drawing  of  a  com- 
plex geometric  shape,  identical  to  a  configuration  used  in 
one  of  the  artist's  recent  works,  showing  it  in  various 
positions,  which  demonstrated  the  principle  Davis  could 
employ  in  using  computers  himself.  We  were  optimistic 
about  consummating  an  agreement,  but  the  corporation 
was  reluctant  to  commit  the  extent  of  computer  and  pro- 
gramming time  necessary  for  the  artist's  needs.  In  July, 
Davis  visited  the  corporation's  Anaheim  facility  and  saw 
several  demonstrations  of  computer  graphic  output.  About 
a  month  after  that  meeting,  when  Cal  Comp  had  still  not 
signed  a  contract  with  us,  we  asked  Jeff  Raskin  to  consult 
with  Davis  and  the  Cal  Comp  people  about  the  project. 
Raskin  visited  the  company  with  the  artist,  and  suggested 
that  they  make  available  to  Davis  a  console  which  he  could 
operate  from  his  own  studio.  This  suggestion  was  apparent- 
ly not  regarded  as  feasible  by  the  corporation,  and  finally 
they  indicated  to  us  their  decision  to  decline  any 
commitment. 


In  July,  1969,  when  Larry  Bell's  work  at  the  Rand  Corpora- 
tion terminated  unsuccessfully.  Rand  agreed  to  take  on 
another  artist.  We  invited  Walter  de  Maria,  among  others,  to 
submit  some  ideas  for  a  project  at  this  think  tank,  but  he 
declined  on  the  basis  of  other  commitments.  We  saw  him 
later  in  the  Fall,  mentioned  several  other  A  &  T  companies 
still  available  and  asked  if  he  had  any  further  interest  in 
developing  a  project  proposal.  His  response  was  positive; 
specifically  he  wanted  to  see  RCA.  Thus  far  in  the  program 
three  artists— Andy  Warhol,  James  Rosenquist  and  Sam 
Francis— had  toured  RCA's  Van  Nuys  electronic  and  com- 
puter division  but  no  match  had  evolved;  in  addition  we 


^■. 


83 


A&T 


had  presented  the  company  fully  outlined  proposals  by 
Victor  Vasarely,  Glenn  McKay,  and  Boyd  IVlefferd,  none  of 
which  were  acceptable  to  RCA  managennent. 

We  arranged  for  de  Maria  to  tour  the  Van  Nuys  facility. 
After  this  initial  visit,  de  Maria  embarked  on  an  intense 
period  of  preliminary  cerebral  activity,  attempting  to  form- 
ulate his  idea.  He  reported  on  December  1,  that  before  sub- 
mitting the  proposal  to  the  Museum  or  to  RCA  for  approv- 
al, he  wished  to  visit  the  facility  on  several  more  occasions 
to  gather  additional  information.  Following  these  subse- 
quent visits,  he  sent  us  two  proposals,  written  with  felt-tip 
pen  on  paste  board.  [1]  Accompanying  these  proposals 


77/£  /QP<MEcr 

.=^1^      <.ej  MtJJfii  ^r»/y  ^uieu^    • 


ro-^^tf*^    *~c«>w«. 


-■7rv- 

.^e.^      y>       ff«.      -**-*J       -■- 

-nftt^'^'-'^K.   H/^ 

^V'' 

fb    "S*   ^'iw-'    —  '*-^ 

J-    */^     X. -->/*.«- 

A>0 

C^X.       o^      ««x^-^./-    . 

^>»    '=——/- 

«-y; 


V^J^cy/    ^^j-c/o/     .5?A.-><i-^    /^cr.,/>^-e  - 


^AC^-'-t-i**;***;  —        "T; 


-Tt  f'V7*#'/tf.         ?>*■      ^;PC^' 


^lt^   c/   £^- 


C***'^'*^-^*^ 


Co  J  7 


-/^^    /€i^-^— (^r<V/ 


-«'; 


*; 


;2. ,./'''  _;?^ 


■^^opo 


C^"^'«     /^OOO        ^••"/D0>fJ»^ 


,.        ,/     >*-*. 


A   /strmi 


r        Aft  re     ^^w. 


j>t'«' 


TiC^  . — 


rv.  T-f 


^O**       r/^- 

/^r"    r^*-  ?'*' 


?<■      'S-'    V 


^,„y^        7>».^,.»-^        /<-7- 


.   ^.r-/-/        ^"'J< 


//^       //^     /J 


^o  ajy  ^/"^    /»  /  'J  »*  7  /e»'J 


84 


were  six  typewritten  pages  of  speculation  on  A  &  T,  notes 
on  his  ideas,  cost  estimates,  etc.  [2] 

We  sent  copies  of  de  Maria's  proposal  to  West  Coast  and 
East  Coast  management  and  the  following  letter  from  MT, 
dated  January  2,  to  Mr.  Julius  Haber,  assistant  to  Dr. 
Sarnoff; 

Recently  we  brought  an  exceptionally  gifted  and  provoc- 
ative artist,  Walter  de  Maria,  to  Los  Angeles  to  tour  the 
RCA  facilities  here.  As  you  probably  know,  since  our 
last  communications  regarding  Boyd  Mefferd,  we  have 
considered  several  possible  candidates  for  RCA  in  the 
Art  and  Technology  program.  None  of  the  artists  seemed 
to  be  right  for  you  or  us.  Mr.  de  Maria,  however,  has 
now  come  up  with  a  very  ambitious  and  far-reaching 
program.  He  was  inspired  to  draft  the  enclosed  project 
proposals  after  two  visits  to  RCA  here.  There  are  two 
proposals-a  'private'  and  a  'public'  one.  As  you  will  see, 
they  are  unusual  approaches  to  the  Art  and  Technology 
project,  but  could  be  of  special  significance. 


I  am  writing  you  about  it,  because  Mr.^de  Maria  is  back 
in  New  York,  and  I  suggest  that  you,  and  hopefully  Dr. 
Sarnoff,  could  see  this  artist  to  discuss  the  plan. 

During  the  next  three  months,  in  several  follow-up  conver- 
sations, Haber  explained  that  the  decision  was  being  de- 
layed because  he  had  been  unable  to  present  the  proposal 
to  the  president.  He  intimated,  however,  that  despite  Dr. 
Sarnoff  s  decision,  there  was  very  little  interest  or  enthusi- 
asm about  de  Maria's  ideas  among  the  RCA  staff;  indeed, 
his  own  attitude  was  one  of  wry  skepticism.  Finally,  in  late 
April,  we  received  word  that  RCA  would  not  execute  the 
project.  No  further  artist/RCA  match  was  attempted. 


Art  and  the  20th  Century 
Art  and  Technology 

^HHHHBHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH«HHBH^■ 


Art  and  Industry 

SHHHHHH«HHHHHHHHHHHHHHt*-JBHt- 


Movies,  Radio,  Phonograph  Records,  T.V.,  Video  Tape. 

The  Automobile,  Airplane, 

The  Camera  Photograph,  Magazine,  Book. 


There  has  been  a  marriage  between  the  new  technology  and  art  throughout 
the  century. 

Theater  +  Photo  technology  =  Movies 
Music   +  Sound  technology  =  Records 

The  question  then  seems  to  be  where  do  the  FINE  ARTS. . -painting  and 

sculpture. . .meet  with  the  new  technology. 

The  sculptors  have  in  the  sixties  been  meeting  this  question 
head  on.  The  use  of  the  new  materials  stainless  steel, 
plastic,  fiberglass,  lasers,  and  other  light  sources .. .has 
already  shown  that  the  artists  are  alive. 

The  question  seems  to  be  not  whether  artists  can  use  the  new  technology 
...for  that  question  has  long  since  been  answered,  rather  the  question 
here  seems  to  be  the  relationship  between  the  artist  and  INDUSTRT. 

The  Artist  and  Industry 

Industry  . . .  The  Industrial  Society. 

A  system  where  energy  (money  ~   stored  energy) 
money,  technical  knowledge  and  work  energy  are 
joined  to  produce  ....  in  quantity  the  essential 
things  necessary  for  people.   Food.  Shelter. 
Survival. 

Statement :  The  products  of  the  Industry  or  even  the  tools  of 
the  Industry,  can  be,  and  often  are  beautiful  in 
themselves ■ 

It  is  not  necessary  for  an  "artist"  to  modify 
them  in  any  way  in  order  to  make  them  into  "art". 

Tools,  example:  A  laser  beam.  When  this  device  is  set  up  and 
used  it  is  simply  beautiful. 
A  Motor  is  beautiful  in  itself. 
An  oscilliscope . 

etc. 


THE  PROJECT 

TO  WORK  WITH  THE  ENTITY     R.C.A.    RADIO  CORPORATION  OF  AMERICA 
TO  USE  THE  CCMPUTER  AND  COMPUTER  TERMINAL  PRODUCED  BY  R.C.A. 
TO  USE  THIS  TECHNOLOG!f...AND  MAKE  A  "WORK  OF  ART." 


THE  PROPOSAL/WORK 


/   China  200 


1776-1976  China  Mind 


The  history  of  China  since  1776  to  the  present,  and  then  for  the 
next  six  years,  shall  be  processed  and  inserted  into  an  R.C.A. 
computer . 

At  the  exhibition  to  be  held  at  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of 
Art  an  R.C.A.  computer  terminal  shall  be  set  up  with  a  trained 
person  in  attendance,  so  that  the  visitors  to  the  exhibition  shall 
be  able  to  "ask  the  computer"  questions  about  the  history  of  China. 

The  question  will  then  be  put  through  the  terminal  and  the  visitor 
shall  see  the  answer  "read  out," 

Cost  and  Financing  and  Return 

The  China  200  project  is  designed  to  cover  a  six  year  involvement.   It 
differs  from  other  projects  submitted  to  the  Art  and  Technology  program 
in  several  facets. 

I.  The  situation/sculpture/project  shall  have  a  long  life.   It  is 
not  done  in  a  three  month  period,  with  just  the  idea  that  a 
work  will  be  done  for  the  purpose  of  the  Los  Angeles  Show  only. 

II.  The  ideas  and  Facts  constitute  the  body  of  the  work,  as  much  as 
the  physical  nature  of  the  work. 

First:     The  Idea  of  the  Whole  Project  Itself 
Secondly:  The  Facts  stored  by  the  Computer. 

Because  the  project  is  set  up  to  cover  a  six  year  period  the  work  should 
be  in  an  active  state  during  this  entire  six  year  period. 

The  artist  proposes  that  the  attitude  in  which  the  industry 
R.C.A.  and  the  artist  enter  into  the  working  arrangement,  is 
of  prime  importance. 

It  is  hereby  proposed  that  the  Artist  serve  as  a  consultant/supervisor  to  the 
project  during  its  entire  six  year  term. 

Secondly  that  the  Artist  and  the  Industry  consider  themselves  partners  of 
equal  rank  during  the  entire  period. 

Moreover,  the  project  shoiild  be  considered  an  economic  venture.   And  not  a 
charitable  act  on  the  part  of  the  Industry. 


85 


Mark  di  Suvero 

Born  Shanghai,  1933 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


It  is  hereby  proposed  that  the  Los  Angeles  Museum  be  allowed 
to  use  the  computers  free  of  charge  and  that  the  next  two 
HusBUms  to  which  the  exhibition  travels  also  be  allowed  to  use 
the  computers  free  of  charge,  but  that  subsequently  to  that 
whenever  the  CHINA  200  sculpture  is  exhibited  a  leasing  fee 
shall  be  charged  to  the  exhibitor. 

THE  CHINA  200  sculpture  shall  be  considered  a  joint  partnership  project 
between  the  artist  Walter  de  Maria  and  R.C.A. 

As  the  Artist  is  often  called  upon  to  participate  in  group 
shows  in  various  Museums,  he  will  then,  through  his  dealer 
representative  be  able  to  lease  the  work  of  art.  Thus  the 
Industrial  concept  of  providing  a  service  to  society  and 
retaining  a  just  reward  for  that  service  will  be  added  to  the 
esthetic  nature  of  the  work/sculpture/situation  which  is  inher- 
ently in  the  China  200  project,  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  it 
has  been  created  by  the  Artist. 

Moreover:  The  Artist  will  be  able  to  initiate,  through  his  dealer,  the 
sale  and  lease  of  the  China  200  to  individual  art  collectors. 

This  revenue  . , .  sale  and  lease  will  then  be  shared  on  a  50/50 
basis  between  the  Artist  and  R.C.A.  corporation. 

At  the  termination  of  the  project  (January  1976) 

I.   All  rights  to  the  China  20O  project  can  be  sold  the  monies  then 

being  divided  on  an  equal  basis  between  the  company  and  the  Artist 


A  decision  can  be  made  between  the  company  and  the  Artist  to  work 
on  an  ijnproved  project: 


CHMA  22L. 


China  224  will  continue  the  operation  of  China  200  but  will  con- 
tinue the  storage  of  information/and  the  sale  lease  arrangements 
through  to  the  year  2000. 


In  June,  1969  Mark  di  Suvero  arrived  to  tour  several  cor- 
porations we  had  previously  described  to  him.  Hal  Glicks- 
man  took  him  to  International  Chemical  and  Nuclear,  a 
most  unlikely  place  for  an  artist  working  in  monumental 
steel  and  wood  sculptures,  but  di  Suvero  had  conceived  of 
an  incredible  scheme  to  solve  "the  problem  of  helium 
fusion"  and  a  fantastic  proposal  for  constructing  a  floating 
city  on  the  ocean.  Hal  later  recalled  this  visit:  "We  did  this 
funny  little  dance,  going  across  the  white  line  from  the 
dirty  side  to  the  clean  side  of  the  radiation  laboratory,  put- 
ting on  paper  slippers  and  smocks.  After  going  through  the 
labs  there  really  wasn't  much  to  see."  ICN's  manager  who 
conducted  the  tour  and  chatted  with  HG  and  di  Suvero, 
was  apparently  startled  by  the  artist's  untidy  appearance 
and  flamboyant  notions,  and  the  interview  was  short. 
Di  Suvero  then  toured  Kaiser  Steel  Corporation  in  Fontana. 
He  was  enthralled  with  the  rolling  mills  and  fabrication 
plant  with  its  enormous  yards  stocked  with  cranes  and  mas- 
sive steel-forming  machinery.  His  enthusiasm,  as  well  as  a 
description  of  his  project  proposal,  are  communicated  in 
the  following  letter  to  Kaiser  after  his  return  to  Chicago 
some  weeks  later: 

After  visiting  your  giant  complex  in  Fontana,  I  have 
been  filled  by  the  extraordinary  possibilities  which  exist 
in  modern  steel  sculpture  through  your  participation  in 
the  L.A.  County  Museum's  Art  and  Technology  project. 

I  have  spent  nine  years  (of  my  dozen  plus  years  as  a 
sculptor)  working  steel  and  I  feel  that  I  could  learn 
vastly  and  could  continue  my  structural  explorations 
(within  the  concept  of  constructivism)  by  working  at 
your  plant. 

In  a  recent  piece  of  sculpture  I  deformed  a  WF  beam  30° 
cold  and  found  that  it  returned  to  its  original  position 
when  the  pressure  was  relieved.  [1]  I  am  interested  in 
exploring  the  limits  of  'memory'  in  steel  (especially  the 
corrosion  resistant  high  tension  steels). 


T 


^ 


yN./&<A]U^^9<^    /V^-WiAv"tUfl   jpAiL4>A-t4Aj?  '\s>^^^^\jJLjl^u>^^  ^ 


Jean  Dubuffet 

Born  Le  Havre,  France  1901 
Resident  Paris 


86 


Since  your  opportunity  for  multi-sculptural  experimen- 
tation is  so  great,  I  would  like  to  share  my  project  with 
two  other  artists:  Voulkos  and  Serra.  I  would  like  to 
work  six  weeks  on  my  own  projects  and  then  invite 
Voulkos  and  Serra  to  Fontana,  so  that  the  art  would  not 
only  have  a  dialogue  with  technology  but  so  that  there 
should  be  an  artist  to  artist  intercourse  in  the  middle  of 
technological  possibilities.  For  every  artist,  art  comes 
from  other  artists:  it  is  our  work  to  reshape  thought  and 
form  which  result  in  (God  willing)  new  exploration. 

The  extraordinary  possibilities  could  only  exist  if  there 
were  an  unlimited  supply  of  steel  (say  up  to  1 ,000  tons) 
and  a  working  crew  of  four  to  eight  men.  I  imagine  that 
the  major  part  of  the  work  would  take  place  in  the  fabri- 
cating division,  but  I  would  like  to  leave  open  the  possi- 
bilities of  exploring  new  forms  in  the  rolling  mills  and 
casting  processes. 

I  am  very  excited  at  the  possibilities.  I  hope  that,  as  a 
result  of  our  mutual  cooperation,  I  may  be  of  service  to 
you  in  suggesting  new  processes/new  forms. 

P.S.  If  I  am  accepted,  I  would  like  to  have  the  written 
approval  of  Edgar  Kaiser. 

Meanwhile  Richard  Serra  had  submitted  a  proposal  for 
work  at  Kaiser  (independent  of  di  Suvero's  request)  which 
we  and  the  company  accepted. 


Our  experience  with  Dubuffet  and  American  Cement  began 
with  visits  to  the  French  artist  in  his  Paris  studio,  first  by 
Irena  Shapira  and  then  by  M.T.  Dubuffet  expressed  interest 
in  the  program,  and  eventually  submitted  a  plan  for  the 
construction  of  a  twenty-six  foot  high  tower  in  concrete. 
This  was  related  to  the  series  of  sculptures  called  Tour aux 
Figures  which  he  had  been  developing  in  limited  scale  over 
the  past  three  years,  but  the  tower  was  to  be  a  full-size 
architectural  monument,  containing  complicated  interior 
passageways.  For  American  Cement  this  represented  a 
major  undertaking,  but  the  company  became  eager  to  work 
with  Dubuffet  after  two  executives  flew  to  Paris  for  three 
days  of  discussion  with  the  artist.  Their  top  research  engine- 
er in  concrete  construction.  Dr.  Samuel  Aroni,  saw 
Dubuffet,  and  came  to  regard  the  technical  problems  posed 
by  the  artist's  proposals  as  pertinent  and  challenging  to  the 
company— and  as  a  vehicle  for  affirming  the  viability  and 
professional  excellence  of  American  Cement's  research- 
oriented  Technical  Center  in  Riverside,  California.  Jay 
Rowen,  Public  Relations  officer  who  accompanied  Aroni, 
was  similarly  enthusiastic.  And  President  James  Giles,  more 
than  almost  any  other  company  president  in  A  &  T,  was 
personally  committed  to  the  plan.  Dubuffet  tentatively 
agreed  to  come  to  California  for  two  months  and  return 
later  as  necessary.  The  following  account  by  Dr.  Aroni 
explains  what  happened. 


Size  and  Culture 

—an  Attempt  that  Failed 


Sitting  here,  surrounded  by  my  diaries,  notes,  letters, 
books,  etc.,  I  am  attempting  to  describe  a  failure;  our  fail- 
ure to  work  with  Dubuffet,  to  build  one  of  his  unique  edi- 
fices. And  yet,  for  me,  the  experience  was  rewarding  in 
many  ways.  It  opened  a  window,  an  insight,  into  the  work 
and  life  of  a  great  artist.  It  also  reinforced  a  belief  that  the 
difference  between  art  and  technology  is  not  as  great  as 
some  would  have  us  believe. 


Why  did  we  not  succeed?  On  the  surface,  the  answer  is  very 
simple.  We  were  prepared  to  build  an  edifice  twenty-seven 
feet  in  height,  a  monument  without  an  accessible  interior. 
We  wanted  to  work  at  our  American  Cement  Technical 
Center  at  Riverside;  the  edifice  had  thus  to  be  transport- 
able. Our  budget  was  sufficient  for  this  job,  but  still  finite. 
Dubuffet  wanted  to  see  a  much  larger  structure  built,  at 
least  twice  the  height  and  possibly  with  an  interior.  He 
envisaged  it  as  a  permanent  edifice,  not  subject  to  transpor- 
tation limitations,  large  and  important  enough  to  justify  his 
coming  to  California.  As  an  alternative,  he  desired  to  see 
the  development  of  a  "device"  to  work  from  a  small  model, 
enlarge  it,  say  ten  to  twenty  times,  and  construct  a  full 
scale  structure.  Our  objectives  did  not  agree,  and  the 
project  did  not  materialize.  But  the  story  does  not  end 
here.  Influencing  it  to  an  unknown  degree  were  cultural 
differences. 


87 


A&T 


The  internal  strife  in  the  American  Cement  Corporation 
(ACC),  with  all  its  subsequent  events,  is  now  a  matter  of 
public  knowledge.  This  was  emerging  at  the  beginning  of 
1969.  However,  as  it  happened,  Dubuffet  abandoned  the 
project  before  it  could  have  been  affected  by  these 
problems.  Why  did  ACC  participate  in  the  first  place? 
Beyond  the  obvious  public  relations  and  publicity  values, 
my  knowledge  on  this  question  is  incomplete.  However,  I 
witnessed  and  experienced  great  enthusiasm  on  the  part  of 
James  P.  Giles,  at  that  time  President  of  ACC,  and  on  the 
part  of  our  Technical  Center  staff.  Dr.  G.J.C.  Frohnsdorff, 
at  the  time  Manager  of  R.  &  D.,  Dr.  K.E.  Daugherty,  Re- 
search Chemist,  Senior  R.  &  D.  Staff,  and  myself,  who  were 
more  intimately  involved,  and  everyone  else  on  the  research 
staff,  felt  a  sense  of  excitement  and  expectation.  We  had 
been  busy  in  exploratory  research,  basic  and  applied,  with 
the  objective  of  developing  a  better  understanding  of  a  wide 
range  of  materials,  organic  and  inorganic,  in  order  to 
develop  new  and  improved  products.  We  had  developed  an 


environment  where  ideas  could  flourish,  and  where  the 
interaction  with  a  creative  man  of  Dubuffet's  stature  was 
regarded  as  a  most  welcome  stimulus.  Our  sincere  hope  was 
that  this  experience  would  also  be  stimulating  and  reward- 
ing to  Dubuffet. 

Though  the  initial  contacts  between  the  Museum  and  ACC 
were  probably  made  in  February  or  March  1968,  and  the 
contract  signed  the  end  of  May,  the  first  I  learned  of  Du- 
buffet was  the  beginning  of  October,  1968.  I  remember 
being  shown  the  book  on  Dubuffet  Edifices*  and  examin- 
ing the  Tour  aux  Figures,  an  eighty  foot  tower  with  a 
designed  interior  [1  ] .  There  were  strong  and  diverse  reac- 
tions among  my  colleagues  at  ACC  to  Dubuffet's  work.  My 
first  impressions,  which  were  reinforced  by  later  experi- 
ences, related  to  the  great  care  for  detail  in  the  descriptions 
of  the  text,  and  the  difficulties,  from  a  structural  point  of 
view,  of  designing,  analyzing,  and  faithfully  reproducing 
such  a  complex  monument. 


*Published  for  the 
Museum  of  Modern  Art, 
New  York,  1968. 


88 


Six  weeks  passed  between  this  first  encounter  and  our  visit 
to  Paris.  During  this  period,  I  met  Maurice  Tuchman  and 
Irene  Shapira.  Also,  we  learned  more  of  Dubuffet's  thinking 
from  his  letters.  He  was  concerned  about  the  problem  of 
magnification  from  a  small  model,  as  he  noted  in  a  letter  to 
Frohnsdorff  on  October  26,  1968: 

The  main  question  for  me  remains  the  finding  of  a  prac- 
tical method  for  rapidly  and  easily  enlarging  any  subject, 
to  the  extent,  if  possible,  of  ten  times  or  twenty  times. 

Consider  a  comb  in  which  the  teeth  are  movable  and 
able  to  slide  vertically  in  the  horizontal  bar  perpendic- 
ular to  them.  The  teeth  are  graduated.  If  the  comb  is 
applied  to  a  relief  surface,  the  depth  can  be  read  (and 
written  down  if  the  teeth  are  immobilized  while  their 
positions  are  recorded). 

,    Then  consider  a  gadget  which  resembles  not  only  a  comb 
but  a  brush  (that  is  to  say  provided  with  numerous  rows 
of  teeth).  These  teeth  being  similarly  mobile  and  similar- 
ly graduated  and  similarly  capable  of  being  immobilized 
while  their  positions  are  noted. 

Finally,  a  similar  brush-like  gadget  but  ten  times  as  large 
(and  the  graduations  on  the  teeth  being  ten  times  larger). 

It  only  remains  to  find  a  means  so  that  the  teeth  of  the 
large  brush  can  be  fixed  in  the  same  positions  (at  the 
same  graduation  marks)  as  the  teeth  in  the  small  brush. 
We  ought  to  be  able  to  find  an  electronic  process  for  this 
without  very  great  difficulty. 

In  the  past,  Dubuffet  has  used  a  pentograph  to  obtain  mag- 
nifications of  up  to  three  times.  The  question  of  a  device  to 
"rapidly  and  easily  enlarge  any  subject"  appeared  constant- 
ly during  our  negotiations.  To  undertake  the  development 
of  such  an  automated  device,  as  our  main  project,  seemed 
to  me  to  be  a  hazardous  attempt.  I  foresaw  no  undue  prob- 
lems, using  various  techniques  on  an  ad  hoc  basis,  to  con- 
struct an  edifice  from  a  small  model,  during  which  we  could 
develop  some  ideas  and  experience  towards  the  automated 
device.  Nevertheless,  we  spent  much  time,  both  before  and 
after  the  visit  to  Paris,  thinking  about  various  ways  that  the 
device  could  be  achieved.  Our  wild  ideas  ranged  from  elec- 
tronics to  optics,  and  from  mechanical  means  to  holo- 
graphy. Dubuffet,  in  a  letter  to  Maurice  Tuchman  on 
October  28,  also  wrote  of  the  need  for  proper  colors: 
I  would  like  to  point  out  (so  that  you  may  let  American 
Cement  know)  that  all  of  my  projected  monuments  and 
structures  are  multi-colored;  this  is  true  whether  they  are 
to  be  made  in  concrete  or  in  epoxy  resin  or  other 
materials. 

Very  bright  clear  colors  are  needed  so  as  to  give  an 
appearance  of  glazed  pottery  (it  is  necessary  to  avoid 
techniques  which  give  dull  or  chalky  colors  which  are 
not  clear).  The  particular  need  is  for  a  fine  bright  very 


startling  red;  also  a  fine  snow  white;  and  a  powerful 
black. 

Of  course,  it  is  necessary  for  the  colors  to  be  perfectly 
resistant  to  ultraviolet  radiation,  and  they  should  not  be 
at  all  altered  by  the  sun  since  they  must  be  stable  for 
fifty  years. 

I  expect  to  use  polyurethane  paints;  I  believe  they  will 
fulfill  these  conditions. 

I  have  heard  that  American  Cement  makes  colored 
cements;  but  I  am  worried  that  these  colors  mixed  with 
cement  would  be  a  little  dull  and  chalky. 

In  the  meantime,  I  had  a  very  useful  meeting  with  Mr.  John 
Hench,  of  the  WED  Enterprises.  Their  experience  at  Disney- 
land and  elsewhere  confirmed  my  estimates  for  the  con- 
struction of  the  Tour  aux  Figures,  at  least  eighteen  months 
work  and  $2  million,  well  outside  our  constraints.  However, 
in  his  letters  Dubuffet  exhibited  flexibility.  He  wrote  to 
Frohnsdorff  on  October  14, 

I  already  have  several  models  of  monuments  and  struc- 
tures which  are  available  and  ready  to  be  produced. 
Some  of  these  could  be  produced  in  concrete  but  others 
will  have  to  be  considered  for  possible  production  in 
epoxy  resin  or  for  certain  parts  to  be  of  concrete  and 
others  of  epoxy  .... 

On  November  16,  1968,  Jay  Rowen  and  I  flew  to  Paris.  Our 
mission  was  to  negotiate  and  finalize  the  subject  of  our 
cooperative  work.  When  we  walked  from  our  hotel  to 
Dubuffet's  home,  on  Sunday  morning,  it  was  cold  and  it 
started  to  snow.  However,  the  warm  and  friendly  reception 
more  than  made  up  for  the  weather.  We  met  Dubuffet 
together  with  Girard  Singer,  an  artist  who  worked  with 
Dubuffet  in  the  production  of  some  PVC  colored  replicas 
using  a  technique  similar  to  the  making  of  relief  maps,  and 
who  was  supposed  to  join  Dubuffet  on  his  California  trip, 
and  also  Antoine  Butor,  the  young  architect.  [1]  They 
were  prepared  for  business:  a  translated  list  of  key  words, 
writing  pads,  pencils,  and  lots  of  questions.  Is  ACC  also  a 
construction  company?  Do  you  deal  with  plastics?  Who  is 
going  to  pay  for  the  execution?  How  much  will  Tour  aux 
Figures  cost?  Our  answer  of  over  $2  million  did  not  surprise 
Dubuffet,  who  agreed  that  it  was  obviously  too  much 
to  expect.  We  told  him  about  ACC,  and  showed  him  various 
things  that  we  brought  with  us,  some  synthetic  colored 
aggregates  that  we  were  developing,  a  piece  of  white  lime- 
stone from  the  Crestmore  deposit.  In  our  excitement,  the 
tea  that  Mrs.  Dubuffet  prepared  got  cold  before  we  settled 
down  to  it.  One  encouraging  aspect  of  our  discussions  was 
Dubuffet's  agreement  on  the  difficulty  of  having  to  trans- 
port the  structure.  He  commented,  "We  obviously  could 
not  make  it  very  large,"  but  also  said,  "What  could  I  do  In 
the  U.S.A.  that  I  cannot  do  here?"  The  second  question 
surfaced  many  times  in  later  discussions  and  correspondence. 


89 


A&T 


Before  lunch  we  visited  his  studio,  a  large,  two  story  house, 
with  some  six  rooms  and  a  small  courtyard,  one  of  a 
number  of  studios  that  Dubuffet  uses  in  Paris.  Dubuffet's 
studio  is  the  essence  of  good  organization  and  planning. 
Each  model  is  labeled  (date,  name,  etc.),  photographed,  and 
recorded:  "Art  is  like  planning  a  war,"  was  Dubuffet's  reply 
to  my  comments.  Dubuffet's  method  of  work  consists  of 
cutting  the  original  from  a  polystyrene  mass,  using  a  hot 
wire  tool.  A  mold  is  made  next  by  applying  silicone  elas- 
tomer and  plaster.  Finally  a  fiberglass  epoxy  model  is 
produced  and  painted  with  polyurethane  paint. 

At  lunch,  Dubuffet  expressed  interest  in  seeing  Disneyland. 
He  said  that  New  York  City  exhibited  "architecture  built  to 
terrify  people,"  and  it  became  evident  that  Dubuffet  was 
not  just  producing  sculptures,  but  architecture.  To  affect 


the  physical  and  visual  environment,  some  "mass-produc- 
tion" was  vital,  he  felt.  To  "design,"  by  sculpturing  a 
model,  rather  than  drawing,  was  an  appropriate  means  to 
do  this.  But,  the  question  was  how  to  reproduce  and 
enlarge.  And  how  to  design  and  analyze  structurally.  I  de- 
scribed to  him  the  use  of  models  for  structural  analysis, 
how  we  can  load  them  and  measure  strains  with  special 
equipment,  and  reach  conclusions  relevant  to  the  full-scale 
prototype.  (Apparently  some  French  engineers  had 
expressed  doubts  about  building  the  Tour  aux  Figures.)  A 
discussion  of  the  non-linearity  of  stresses  with  size 
followed.  The  technique  of  shotcreting  was  discussed,  and 
Dubuffet  told  us  excitedly  about  the  structures  at  the  Paris 
Zoo,  "Their  only  mistake  was  having  regular  interiors!" 


And  so,  we  all  went  to  the  zoo.  [2,  left  to  right:  Dubuffet, 
Aroni,  Girard  Singer  and  wife]  It  stopped  snowing,  but  the 


90 


fresh  fall  covered  everything,  including  the  thirty-year  old 

thin  concrete  structures.  [3]  Dubuffet  had  made  his  point: 
if  these  structures  could  have  been  built  so  long  ago,  why 
not  his  edifices  today?  My  feet  got  wetter  by  the  minute. 
"This  is  a  disaster  for  Californian  shoes,"  declared 
Dubuffet.  On  our  return  to  his  home,  he  offered  me  a  pair 
of  his  shoes  as  a  substitute.  The  fit  was  good,  but  I  was  too 
embarrassed  to  accept. 


door  through  which  one  could  enter,  but  without  any 
interior  arrangement  other  than  the  necessary  reinforc- 
ing elements.  [4] 

We  accepted  this  compromise  of  building  a  twenty-seven 
foot  monument,  without  an  interior.  I  could  see  ways  of 
making  it  in  parts  and  transportable.  We  were  all  pleased 
with  the  result.  It  was  agreed  to  meet  again  next  morning, 
at  his  studio,  together  with  an  interpreter  so  that  many  pro- 
cedural and  working  details  could  be  decided.  We  shook 
hands,  and  Dubuffet  suggested  that  we  celebrate  that 
evening. 

The  detailed  discussions  that  took  place  next  morning  are 
worth  reporting,  if  only  to  demonstrate  Dubuffet's  concern 
for  organization  and  details,  as  well  as  the  firmness  of  our 
mutual  desire  to  proceed  with  the  job.  An  American  art 
student  in  Paris  did  the  interpreting.  Though  Dubuffet 
speaks  good  English,  and  I  speak  some  French,  he  wanted 
to  avoid  any  misunderstandings.  The  question  and  answer 
session  followed.  Where  will  if  finally  be  located  (after  the 
Museum  exhibition)?  We  were  not  sure.  How  much  will  it 
cost?  Probably  $75-100  thousand.  Who  would  own  it?  ACC 
will  probably  donate  it  to  the  Museum.  Could  we  have  two 
models  to  start  the  detailed  preparations,  one  painted  and 
one  only  with  the  black  lines?**  Yes,  he  will  make  the  nec- 
essary arrangements.  The  original  was  going  to  be  exhibited 
at  the  Musee  des  Arts  Decoratifs  in  about  three  weeks. 
He  will  try  to  make  the  models  within  this  period;  painting 
might  take  an  additional  month.  When  will  he  come  to 
California?  Probably  twice,  first  about  February  15,  1968, 


Returning  to  the  hotel  that  evening.  Jay  and  I  felt  very 
happy  with  this  first  day  of  our  encounter.  We  had  estab- 
lished a  good  relationship.  We  genuinely  liked  Dubuffet  and 
Singer,  and  we  felt  that  they  liked  us.  So  far  though,  we 
had  not  yet  negotiated. 

Next  day  Dubuffet  took  us  to  see  his  enlarged  version  of 
Tour  aux  Figures,  a  ten  foot  epoxy  construction.  Later  that 
day,  we  saw  the  shop  where  the  pentograph  enlargements 
and  the  casting  of  the  epoxy  models  were  executed.  That 
evening  our  real  negotiations  began.  Dubuffet  and  Singer, 
Jay  and  I,  focused  on  the  important  question  of  what 
should  be  built.  I  emphasized  the  advantage  of  building 
something  smaller  first,  before  a  truly  automated  reproduc- 
tion and  enlargement  technique  would  be  developed.  We 
were  eager  to  build  something  reasonable  in  size,  with  the 
experience  gained  being  a  valuable  stepping  stone.  I  suggest- 
ed first  that  we  just  build  one  of  the  walls,  as  a  free  stand- 
ing thirty  foot  monument,  but  Dubuffet  was  not  happy.  We 
were  looking  through  the  Dubuffet  Edifices  publication  and 
Dubuffet  suggested  the  Tour  de  Chantourne.  The  descrip- 
tion of  it  in  the  book  states  in  part. 

The  tower  could  also  be  conceived  more  modestly  as  a 
small  hollow  monument,  eight  meters  high,  whose  base 
of  four  square  meters  could  in  this  case  be  built  in 
concrete  or  resinous  epoxy,  having  only  one  very  small 


**At  that  stage,  I  thought  of  building  it  in  panels  to  be 
assembled  later.  The  black  lines  would  have  served  as  appro- 
priate locations  of  joints.  A  different  concept  was 
developed  later. 


91 


A&T 


and  stay  as  long  as  possible.  In  the  meantime,  we  will  devel- 
op the  techniques  of  reproduction  and  construction;  maybe 
experiment  on  arbitrary  segments.  We  will  need  true  poly- 
urethane  paints.  We  will  use  white  cement.  We  promised  to 
make  and  send  him  some  samples  to  test  the  colors.  How 
long  after  casting  can  we  paint?  He  was  worried  about 
changes  of  color  with  moisture.  Should  we  paint  it  at  all  or 
use  pigments?  How  should  we  paint  It?  Will  a  gun  cause 
overspray?  Should  the  white  parts  be  painted  for  protection 
purposes?  Will  the  Museum  send  the  exhibit  to  Japan? 
Might  it  rain  there?  It  would  be  interesting  to  have  it  exhib- 
ited, at  the  Museum,  on  a  turning  platform.  We  examined 
the  model  of  Tour  de  Chantourne  carefully  and  took  many 
slides.  It  had  five  vivid  colors:  red,  black,  dark  blue,  and 
light  blue,  in  addition  to  white.  In  typical  fashion  the 
model  had  a  small  inscription:  "Tour  II  (projet  de  Tour 
a  8  m.  pour  la  Faculte  des  Sciences)  No.  65,  25  Juille't  1967. 

Dubuffet  was  flexible  as  far  as  making  changes  for  the  con- 
struction, such  as  straightening  some  slopes  at  the  lower 
part  of  the  tower,  and  simplifying  the  roof.  The  morning 
passed  quickly,  and  it  seemed  that  our  mission  in  Paris  was 
almost  completed.  Next  day,  on  Wednesday,  I  only  spoke 
to  Dubuffet  on  the  telephone.  He  wanted  to  know  if  our 
decision  to  build  Tour  de  Chantourne  could  be  mentioned 
in  the  printed  material  being  prepared  for  the  exhibition  of 
Monumented  Paintings  at  Galerie  Jeanne  Bucher  in 
December. 

Returning  home.  Jay  wrote  to  Dubuffet  on  November  26 

that. 

We  have  been  in  touch  with  Mr.  Tuchman  and  Mrs. 
Shapira  at  the  Museum,  and  with  my  company's  Presi- 
dent, Mr.  Giles.  They  are  all  enthusiastic  at  the  prospect 
of  building  the  Tour  de  Chantourne.  Sam  and  I  will  be 
making  a  formal  presentation  of  the  project  within  the 
next  few  weeks  and  we  will  have  final  approval  shortly 
thereafter. 

The  presentation  to  the  top  management  of  ACC  took 
place  on  December  6,  1968,  with  Maurice  Tuchman  and 
Irena  Shapira  present.  We  described  our  experience  in  Paris, 
and  Maurice  spoke  of  the  overall  project,  and  of  Dubuffet 
as  an  artist.  Jim  Giles  was  very  enthusiastic,  and  no  real 
opposition  was  expressed  by  any  of  those  present.  I  had 
now  a  budget  and  a  job  to  do. 

My  work  towards  construction  involved  too  many  aspects 
and  too  many  people  to  mention  them  all.  It  was  signifi- 
cant, however,  how  catalytic  the  project  proved  in  obtain- 
ing help  and  advice  from  many  quarters.  John  Hench,  of 
WED  Enterprises,  was  very  helpful  in  providing  the  accumu- 
lated experience  of  Disneyland  in  the  construction  of 
unusual  structures.  They  were  going  to  make  some  plaster 
models  for  us,  from  the  original,  to  be  sliced  both  horizon- 
tally and  vertically  and  serve  as  additional  tools  in  the 
reproduction  work.  Also,  through  their  help,  I  found  Frank 


White,  an  experienced  lather,  to  serve  as  the  backbone  of  a 
team  of  people  that  we  prepared  to  be  ready  for  the  actual 
construction.  The  preparations  went  so  far  as  preparing  lists 
of  required  materials,  and  clearing  the  work  through  the 
union  channels.  I  visited  the  Twentieth-Century  Fox  Film 
Corporation  Studios,  and  Ivan  C.  Martin,  their  Superin- 
tendent of  Construction,  and  others  were  most  helpful  with 
suggestions  and  ideas.  Initially  we  were  going  to  use  shot- 
cretlng.  The  Koll  Construction  Company  was  building  the 
huge  log  ride  at  Knotts  Berry  Farm,  and  we  Investigated 
their  experience.  J.  A.  Moore,  of  the  California  Gunite 
Company,  was  interested  In  helping  and  maybe  doing  the 
shotcrete  work.  He  introduced  me  to  the  Paramount 
Pictures  Company  people,  who  had  some  proposals  on  a 
process  of  reproduction  using  precast  plaster  forms.  Finally, 
I  decided  that  for  our  purposes  hand  plastering  was  more 
suitable  than  shotcreting.  The  construction  concept  that 
emerged  involved  dividing  the  structure  into  four  self-con- 
tained parts,  each  about  seven  feet  in  height,  by  means  of 
suitable  horizontal  cuts.  The  interior  would  be  made  of 
steel  frames,  which  would  be  erected  on  top  of  each  other. 
Lath,  wires,  and  rods  would  be  welded  around  each  frame 
and  shaped  to  the  model  requirements.  The  procedure  of 
shape  reproduction  would  use  a  special  reference  frame 
with  a  number  of  pointers,  moving  both  vertically  and  hori- 
zontally, to  enable  the  location  of  any  required  point.  A 
scaled  version  of  the  frame  would  take  "readings"  from  the 
model.  Finally,  hand  plastering  the  painting  would  finish 
each  segment.  The  size  of  the  segments  was  still  amenable 
for  transportation  and  their  erection,  though  requiring  care 
and  planning,  was  not  seen  as  a  difficult  task. 

During  our  preparations,  I  kept  Dubuffet  informed  of  the 
progress.  We  sent  him  some  pictures  of  the  Disneyland 
Matterhorn  (12/16/68),  and  samples  of  white  cement  with 
various  additives  (for  example  Ti02  pigment)  to  Increase  its 
brightness  (1/3/69).  Ken  Daugherty  performed  tests  of 
various  paint  systems,  and  evaluated  their  performance  up 
to  two  months  of  exposure  to  the  environment.  It  is  very 
significant  to  note  that  our  work  on  trying  to  increase  the 
brightness  of  white  cement,  led  to  the  discovery  of  an  addi- 
tive which  not  only  significantly  increased  the  brightness 
but  also  the  strength  of  the  material.  This  is  at  least  one 
tangible  dividend  left  with  ACC  from  the  "Art  and  Tech- 
nology" project.  On  December  9,  1968,  I  wrote  to 
Dubuffet, 

I  hope  this  week  to  try  out  the  gunite  technique  on  an 
irregular  shaped  surface.  We  will  also  start  to  design  the 
Interior  steel  structure  and  to  initiate  its  construction. 
To  finalize  some  dimensions.  It  would  be  necessary  to 
have  the  unpainted  model,  and  I  would  be  pleased  if  you 
could  send  It  to  us  as  soon  as  possible.  I  will  keep  you 
fully  informed  of  our  progress. 

His  secretary  replied  on  December  14: 

Immediately  after  your  departure,  Jean  Dubuffet  made 
the  necessary  arrangements  to  reproduce  the  model  of 


92 


the  Tour  de  Chantourne.  We  hope  to  send  you  the  un- 
painted  model  on  January  15,  1969. 

The  model  never  arrived.  In  its  place,  black  clouds  started 
gathering  over  the  project.  On  December  22,  1968, 
Dubuffet  wrote  to  me. 

It  was  agreed  during  your  visit  to  Paris  that  after  your  re- 
turn to  Los  Angeles,  you  will  consider  the  construction 
of  the  Tour  de  Chantourne  to  a  height  of  fifteen  meters 
(fifty  feet)  and  will  confirm  it  in  writing.  I  wonder  why  I 
have  not  received  any  confirmation.  Has  your  manage- 
ment considered  this  project  and  are  they  prepared  to 
approve  it? 

I  persist  to  regret  that  we  excluded  the  construction  of 
Tour  aux  Figures  to  a  height  of  twenty-four  meters 
(eighty  feet)  and  with  its  interior  (according  to  the 
model  Gastrovolve).  This  would  have  been,  without  a 
doubt,  much  more  impressive  than  the  Tour  de  Chan- 
tourne to  a  height  of  fifteen  meters  and  without  an 
interior. 

He  proceeded  to  indicate  that  a  French  contractor,  together 
with  a  qualified  engineer,  estimated  the  construction  of  the 
Tour  auK  Figures  to  be  only  $600  thousand  and  not  the  $2 
million  I  mentioned.  When  the  letter  arrived,  I  was  home, 
sick  with  the  flu,  and  my  secretary  read  it  to  me  over  the 
telephone.  I  made  her  repeat  the  first  paragraph.  Had  we 
agreed  on  a  height  of  fifty  feet?  Our  recollection,  assump- 
tion, written  notes  all  said  eight  meters  (twenty-seven  feet). 
Could  we  have  been  wrong?  Or  had  Dubuffet  changed  his 
mind?  Why? 

The  same  day,  Irena  Shapira  received  a  long  letter  from 
Dubuffet,  dated  December  20,  1968  (two  days  earlier  than 
mine).  Its  contents  were  similar  to  mine,  also  emphasizing 
the  fifteen  meter  height,  except  the  first  paragraph,  which 
read: 

I  have  now  the  translation  of  the  contract  for  the 
project.  I  find  that  the  role  played  by  the  'artist'  in  this 
contract  is  neglected  in  comparison  with  that  of  the 
'patron.'  It  would  be  good  if  on  his  part  the  'patron'  had 
some  responsibility,  as  against  the  gift  made  by  the 
'artist'  of  his  creation  and  his  work. 

His  pride  was  hurt,  and,  in  retrospect,  I  realize  that  we  did 
not  respond  adequately. 

Three  letters  went  out  without  much  delay.  One  from  Jim 

Giles,  dated  January  2,  1969: 

I  am  very  pleased  to  inform  you  that  American  Cement 
Corporation  has  made  the  following  commitments  to  the 
Los  Angeles  County  Museum  for  their  project.  Art  & 
Technology. 

1 .  To  construct  the  Tour  de  Chantourne  to  a  height  of 
eight  meters  as  shown  in  the  publication,  Dubuffet 


Edifices.  The  structure  will  be  built  at  our  Technical 
Center  in  Riverside,  California,  and  will  be  transport- 
able for  purposes  of  exhibition  at  the  Los  Angeles 

Museum. 

2.  To  undertake,  as  part  of  a  continuing  relationship 
with  you,  preliminary  stress  and  engineering  studies 
of  Le  Gastrovolve.  We  hope  that  these  studies  will 
lead  to  the  eventual  realization  of  the  Tour  aux 
Figures  through  the  combined  efforts  of  a  half  dozen 
or  more  large  corporations.  Mr.  Tuchman  is  Investi- 
gating that  possibility. 

3.  To  make  available  to  you  all  of  the  varied  facilities, 
materials,  and  techniques  of  our  research  and  techni- 
cal center  for  the  further  pursuit  of  your  interests  in 
design  and  structure. 

We  are  all  looking  forward  to  your  arrival,  and  to  work- 
ing with  you. 

Our  undertaking  to  study  the  large  structure,  for  its  eventu- 
al realization,  as  well  as  the  third  commitment,  were  new 
undertakings  in  an  effort  to  please  Dubuffet.  On  the  same 
date,  I  wrote  to  Dubuffet, 

I  am  very  sorry  that  you  have  not  received  yet  our  offi- 
cial confirmation.  This  is  now  being  written  by  our  Presi- 
dent, Mr.  J.  Giles,  and  you  should  receive  it  at  the  same 
time  as  this  letter  arrives.  With  great  enthusiasm,  we  have 
decided  to  proceed  along  the  lines  discussed  in  Paris  and 
construct  the  Tour  de  Chantourne  as  a  monument,  eight 
meters  high,  as  conceived  in  your  book  on  edifices.  It 
will  probably  be  made  in  four  parts,  each  of  about  two 
meters  high  so  that  it  can  be  transported  from  Riverside 
to  the  Museum  in  Los  Angeles,  for  their  exhibition. 
There  will  be  no  interior  arrangement  other  than  the 
necessary  supporting  frame. 

Also,  as  we  mentioned  in  Paris,  we  are  very  eager,  if  you 
so  desire,  to  proceed  during  your  visit  with  our  experi- 
mental stress  analysis  of  the  Gastrovolve  model.  This 
could  serve  as  the  basis  for  its  structural  design.  In  dis- 
cussions with  Mr.  Tuchman  and  Mrs.  Shapira,  the  possi- 
bility was  also  mentioned  of  investigating  the  collabora- 
tion of  a  number  of  firms  towards  the  possible  eventual 
construction  of  the  Tours  aux  Figures.  During  your  visit 
here,  Mr.  Tuchman  will  take  the  initiative  in  this  direc- 
tion, and  I  believe  that  the  execution  of  the  Tour  de 
Chantourne  will  act  as  a  significant  stimulus  towards  this 
aim. 

Everyone  at  the  Technical  Center  is  eager  for  the  oppor- 
tunity of  working  with  you.  We  believe  sincerely  that 
you  will  find  in  Riverside  a  very  stimulating  and  helpful 
environment  and  we  are  eager  to  enable  you  to  execute 
any  other  small  works  for  yourself  that  you  may  desire 
to  do  during  your  stay. 


93 


A&T 


The  arrangements  for  the  work  on  the  Tour  de 
Chantourne  have  been  progressing  well.  I  am  now  organ- 
izing the  group  of  people  who  will  perform  the  actual 
construction.  We  are  also  looking  into  the  details  of  the 
reproduction  and  construction  techniques.  We  are  start- 
ing to  design  the  interior  steel  frames.  I  am  very  glad  of 
your  progress  in  making  the  epoxy  models.  We  will  need 
the  unpainted  model  as  soon  as  you  can  send  it  to  us, 
hopefully  by  air  mail.  The  painted  models  can  arrive 
later.  I  hope  to  send  you,  during  the  next  week,  samples 
of  white  materials.  The  final  decision  on  the  material 
and  paints  can  wait  for  later,  however. 

Again  on  January  2,  1969,  Irena  Shapira  wrote  explaining 
the  U.S.  practice  of  signing  contracts;  the  fact  that  ACC 
had  also  signed  a  contract  with  the  Museum  (a  copy  was  en- 
closed); that  the  contract  was  intended  to  protect  the  artist 
and  to  enable  the  Museum  to  make  payments  during  the 
artist's  sojourn  here;  that  the  Museum  was,  after  all,  a  state 
organization.  But,  she  wrote,  "If  you  want  to  make 
changes,  to  eliminate  or  to  amend,  please  make  them  and 
let  me  know."  Though  fair  and  reasonable  enough,  this  was 
apparently  not  an  adequate  solution. 

Dubuffet's  reply  to  this  series  of  letters  was  written  January 

9  to  Irena  Shapira: 

Thank  you  for  your  letter  of  January  2,  1969.  I  have  not 
had  the  necessary  time  to  examine  the  contract  proposal 
with  a  specialist.  I  intend  to  do  it,  but  have  been  con- 
stantly very  busy  with  my  work  and  have  not  had  the 
leisure  to  proceed  with  studies  of  this  kind. 

I  should  tell  you  that  I  am  somewhat  troubled  by  the 
nomenclature  of  'patron  sponsor,'  given  to  the  corpora- 
tion benefiting  from  my  collaboration,  and  also  by  the 
spirit  in  which  this  document  was  drafted,  implying  that 
in  this  relationship  I  am  generously  given  a  return,  econ- 
omy class,  ticket  to  Los  Angeles  with  a  small  salary  for 
the  journey,  corresponding  to  the  cost  of  my  cigarettes, 
for  the  effective  working  days  which  I  spend  there,  and  I 
am  in  a  position  of  being  obliged  to  you.  I  don't  feel  this 
way  and  I  don't  think  that  it  reflects  the  true  situation. 

I  have  received  from  the  President  of  American  Cement 
a  letter  proposing  the  construction  of  the  Tour  de 
Chantourne,  not  to  the  height  of  fifteen  meters,  which 
was  decided  with  Mr.  Aroni  and  Mr.  Rowen  during  their 
visit  to  Paris,  but  to  a  height  of  only  eight  meters.  Such  a 
realization  does  not  seem  very  interesting. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  make  an  object  which  is  transport- 
able, and  which  has  dimensions  not  exceeding  the  height 
of  eight  meters,  it  seems  that  it  should  be  made  of  epoxy 
and  not  of  concrete.  There  is  no  sense  in  making  it  of 
concrete. 


I  do  not  like  a  clause  of  the  proposed  contract  which 
stipulates  that  the  objects  realized  could  be  disposed  as 
desired.  I  want,  if  I  make  a  present,  that  it  should  be 
honored  as  such. 

The  proposed  contract  stipulates  that,  in  the  case  that 
other  works  are  executed  they  will  belong  to  me.  But  as 
there  is  no  commitment  stipulated  concerning  these 
eventual  other  realizations,  this  clause  seems  to  be  a  pure 
formality  and  to  be  void  of  practical  importance. 

And  to  me  he  wrote  a  similar  letter: 

In  your  last  letter  you  speak  of  the  construction  of  my 
Tour  de  Chantourne  to  a  height  of  eight  meters,  without 
referring  to  the  height  of  fifteen  meters  which  was 
agreed  during  your  stay  in  Paris.  I  have  also  received  a 
letter  from  the  President  of  American  Cement  Corpora- 
tion in  which  he  also  mentions  the  same  height  of  eight 
meters  .... 

You  don't  mention  at  all  the  project  of  the  device  of 
enlargement,  allowing  the  immediate  enlargement,  with 
ease  and  rapidity,  of  any  model.  Have  you  given  up  the 
development  of  such  a  machine?  It  is  very  important  if  it 
could  be  done. 


At  this  stage,  the  fact  that  Dubuffet  changed  his  mind 
about  our  agreement  in  Paris,  for  whatever  reason,  became 
evident.  In  the  catalogue  of  Piston  la  Filoche,  published  by 
the  Galerie  Jeanne  Bucher,  for  his  exhibition  of  Monumen- 
ted  Paintings  in  December,  1968,  the  following  statement 
appears:  "The  American  Cement  Technical  Center  in  Los 
Angeles  is  presently  studying  the  construction  of  the  Tour 
de  Chantourne  in  the  form  of  a  twenty-six  foot  high  hollow 
monument  of  painted  cement,  before  attempting  more 
ambitious  projects."  The  only  source  for  the  "twenty-six 
foot"  height,  so  far  as  I  know,  would  have  been  Dubuffet. 
Therefore,  it  becomes  clear  that  Dubuffet  had  understood 
the  height  to  be  twenty-six  feet  when  we  left  him  in  Paris. 

J.  F.  Jaeger,  Director  of  Galerie  Jeanne  Bucher,  Dubuffet's 
agent,  wrote  in  a  long  letter  to  Irena  on  January  21, 

The  difficulties  connected  with  Dubuffet's  proposed  trip 
to  Los  Angeles,  and  the  execution  of  an  'Edifice,'  arise 
essentially  from  a  poor  conception  of  the  basis  of  the 
project.  Your  contract  sets  up  on  one  hand  the  artist, 
and  on  the  other  the  patron,  creating  thus  a  duality,  a 
hierarchy  which  appears  false  .... 

Dubuffet  does  not  need  for  his  existence,  or  his  crea- 
tions, a  'patron'  of  any  kind  ....  In  the  spirit  of  the 
contract  sent  to  Jean  Dubuffet,  I  do  not  think  there  is 
much  chance  for  agreement ....  If  you  want  to  work 
with  Dubuffet ....  [you]  need  to  abandon  definitely 
the  notion  of  patron. 


94 


Even  before  we  received  Jaeger's  letter,  I  reached  the  con- 
clusion that  the  only  way  the  project  could  be  salvaged 
would  be  for  Irena  and  me  to  go  innmediately  to  Paris,  and, 
with  the  consent  of  the  Museum,  to  drop  the  contact  com- 
pletely. I  hoped  we  could  repair  the  damage  to  Dubuffet's 
ego,  and  also  make  an  agreement  on  the  execution  of  a 
reasonable  structure.  Jim  Giles  approved  the  idea,  but  the 
Museum  thought  that  a  letter  should  be  tried  first.  My 
letter,  however,  could  not  very  well  address  itself  to  the 
question  of  the  contract,  since  this  was  only  mentioned  in 
his  correspondence  with  the  Museum.  And  so,  on  January 
23,  I  wrote. 

In  summary,  to  keep  within  the  limitations  of  transport- 
ability and  budget,  we  would  like  to  excute  for  the 
Museum  the  Tour  de  Chantourne  in  concrete,  to  a  height 
of  eight  meters.  However,  in  addition  to  this  work,  we 
will  budget  a  specific  sum  of  money  towards  the  execu- 
tion of  additional  smaller  works  or  studies.  These  would 
belong  to  you  and  would  be  done  fully  according  to 
your  desires.  I  sincerely  feel  that  you  will  find  it  very 
useful  to  have  access  to  the  services  of  a  strong  inter- 
disciplinary group  of  highly  qualified  and  experienced 
people,  and  the  facilities  of  our  Technical  Center  at 
Riverside. 

There  are  many  possibilities  for  the  additional  smaller 
projects.  The  possibilities  include  the  execution  of  a 
small  concrete  sculpture  using  the  plaster  gun  technique, 
the  study  and  the  production  of  complete  engineering 
drawings  for  a  reinforced  concrete  design  for  the  La 
Gastrovolve,  the  study  and  some  construction  towards 
the  enlargement  device,  an  execution  in  epoxy  or  a  com- 
bination of  epoxy  and  concrete,  or  any  other  suggestion 
that  you  might  have.  Mrs.  Shapira  and  I  are  prepared  to 
come  to  Paris  to  discuss  with  you  the  details  of  our  joint 
work. 

Dubuffet's  reply,  addressed  to  Maurice,  and  dated  February 

6,  sounded  final: 

I  regret  that  I  must  abandon  the  project  of  my  participa- 
tion in  the  operation,  'Art  and  Technology.'  On  one 
hand  I  am  displeased  with  the  contract  you  sent  me;  on 
the  other,  the  realization  of  my  Tour  de  Chantourne,  in 
concrete,  to  a  height  of  eight  meters,  without  an 
interior,  and  in  a  form  that  the  monument  is  demount- 
able and  transportable,  does  not  hold  much  interest. 

As  a  desperate  move,  after  some  meetings,  Irena  wrote  to 
Dubuffet  on  February  11,  1969,  inviting  him  to  come  to 
Los  Angeles  for  face  to  face  discussions.  A  return  air  ticket 
was  enclosed,  and  the  statement  made  that,  "In  your  par- 
ticular case,  the  Museum  decided  to  omit  the  need  for  a 
contract."  Dubuffet  answered  her  on  January  18: 

Thank  you  for  your  kind  letter  and  for  the  ticket.  But  I 
hesitate  to  undertake  a  trip  which  might  be  useless.  I 
speak  very  bad  English.  I  don't  express  myself  easily, 
and  I  don't  understand  it  well.  Besides  I  am  not  a  tech- 


nician. Then  all  my  models  are  in  Paris.  There  will  be 
nothing  to  talk  about  in  a  concrete  manner  .... 

I  think  that  an  elegant  situation  of  the  project  would  be 
that  the  monument  which  will  be  realized  should  be 
given  to  the  Museum  as  a  donation  and  secured  to 
remain  for  the  future  in  the  Museum's  collection  (the 
donors  will  always  keep  a  right  to  the  eventual  further 
displacement  of  the  work).  The  donor  should  be  on  the 
one  hand  myself  and  on  the  other  the  construction 
corporation.  I  want  to  be  a  donor,  which  in  fact  will  be 
according  to  reality  and  as  such  just  opposite  to  the 
wording  of  the  contract  you  have  sent  me  and  in  which 
the  author  of  the  monument,  strangely  enough,  was 
considered  as  receiving  a  gift. 

In  addition,  he  explained  to  me  in  a  letter  dated  January 

14, 

I  hope  that  we  will  have,  in  the  near  future,  another 
occasion  for  collaboration. 

I  don't  find  very  sound  the  arrangement  in  which  your 
company  pays  the  cost  of  the  realization.  I  prefer  a 
sounder  and  cleaner  way,  in  which  I  myself  pay  for  the 
costs  of  studies  and  construction.  In  this  way  I  am  not  a 
receiver  of  generosity,  and  feel  much  more  comfortable. 

It  is  possible,  I  hope,  that  in  the  near  future  I  will  re- 
establish contact  with  you,  with  a  view  of  working  in  a 
better  way. 
This  represented  almost  the  end  of  my  relation  with  the 
project.  And  so  ends  the  story  of  a  failure.  It  is  a  question,  I 
presume,  of  personal  judgment  as  to  which  was  the  more 
valid  reason  for  our  failure:  size  or  culture;  an  artist's  pride 
or  the  cost  of  technology.  There  is  a  moral  hidden  some- 
where here. 

Samuel  Aroni,  Professor 

School  of  Architecture  and  Urban  Planning 

University  of  California,  Los  Angeles 


Later,  in  evaluating  American  Cement's  efforts  to  realize 
Dubuffet's  monument,  James  Giles  commented  on  the 
reaction  of  ACC's  management  to  the  whole  affair.  Accord- 
ing to  him  the  research  program  at  the  Riverside  Technical 
Center  had  been  underway  for  two  years,  but  was  still  on 
an  experimental  basis  at  the  time  of  ACC's  agreement  to 
participate  in  A  &  T.  Giles  himself  considered  Dubuffet's 
proposal  as  an  excellent  opportunity  for  the  research  staff 
with  potential  advantage  for  the  company,  but  this  feeling 
was  not  shared  by  other  top  executives.  The  Dubuffet 
project  actually  became  a  symbolic  issue  raised  by 
opponents  of  Giles  in  the  corporate  structure  in  the  mana- 
gerial upheaval  which  occurred  early  in  1969.  A  &  T  was 
cited  as  an  example  of  the  kind  of  research  policy  Giles  was 
pursuing  and  which  was  to  lead  to  his  dismissal. 


Jean  Dupuy 

Born  Moulins  (Alliers),  France,  1925 
Resident  New  York  City 


A8eT 


During  Jane  Livingston's  April  '69  IMew  York  trip,  several 
people  suggested  that  she  make  a  point  of  seeing  Jean 
Dupuy;  it  was  finally  at  Tony  Smith's  suggestion  that  she 
visited  him.  We  knew  of  Dupuy  at  that  time  only  through 
his  participation  in  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art's  Machine 
Show  exhibition,  in  which  he  was  represented  by  a  work 
called  Heart  Beats  Dust.  JL  saw  Heart  Beats  Dust  during  her 
April  visit  to  the  artist's  studio  in  the  Bowery.  According  to 
Dupuy's  description,  this  work  consists  of  "a  two-foot  cube 
of  glass  in  which  a  pile  of  dust— powdered  pigment— rests  on 
a  rubber  membrane.  The  machine  includes  coaxial  speaker, 
a  tape  recording  of  heartbeats,  or  an  electronic  stethoscope 
so  one  can  hear  one's  own  heart,  with  various  shutters  and 
lenses.  Moved  by  the  vibrations  produced  by  the  heartbeats, 
the  dust  shapes  and  reshapes  itself  into  strange  formations, 
while  a  certain  amount  rises  in  suspension  and  is  illumina- 
ted by  a  beam  of  light  so  that  a  pyramid  of  dust  is 
defined."  JL  learned  that  Dupuy  would  be  free  and  eager  to 
work  on  a  project  for  A  &  T  if  something  could  be  arranged 
with  a  suitable  corporation. 

In  June,  Dupuy  sent  us  a  number  cf  proposals  for  art  works, 
which  we  forwarded  to  the  Ampex  Corporation  for  consid- 
eration; we  requested  Ampex's  Dr.  Charles  Spitzer,  with 
whom  we  had  dealt  for  several  months  in  trying  to  arrange 
a  collaboration,  to  advise  us  regarding  their  interest  in 
having  Dupuy  tour  Ampex. 


We  were  aware  that  not  all  of  the  proposals  were  appropri- 
ate to  Ampex  in  terms  of  their  technological  capability,  but 
hoped  that  one  might  interest  them.  The  proposals  are  as 
follows: 

Project:  SPARKS 

Words  spoken  into  a  microphone  are  converted  into 

electrical  impulses,  then  amplified  to  a  voltage  strong 

enough  to  generate  sparks  upon  a  metal  plaque  (bursts 

variable  according  to  the  phonetic  properties  of  the 

words). 


Technology:  based  upon  the  same  principle  as  the  color 
organ  or  the  phonetic  typewriter  (I.B.M.)  which  will 
transcribe  spoken  words  directly. 

Project:  INVERSE/REGENERATIVE 

1.  A  labyrinth  (realization  simple,  of  lightweight, 
honeycomb  cardboard;  noise  of  electronic  feedback 
within)  which  will  lead  to  the  chamber. 

2.  A  room  isolated  from  all  sound,  for  one  person  at  a 
time. 

Put  in  this  condition,  totally  isolated  from  all  exterior 
noises,  one  can  hear  the  physiological  functions  of  the 
body  (sound  of  heart,  lungs,  blood  circulation,  etc.). 


Project:  PROBLEM  IN  RE  AERONAUTICS 
An  airplane  flying  at  supersonic  speed  creates  a  cone  of 
vibrations  which  begins  from  the  nose  of  the  plane  and 
extends  backwards  in  ever-enlarging  diameter.  At  the 
moment  when  the  cone  touches  the  ground,  it  provokes 
the  well-known  boom  by  the  intense  accumulation  of 
these  vibrations. 

Problem:  How  possibly  to  make  this  cone  apparent? 

Project:  'L  'INGENIEUR  POMME'  (THE  ENGINEER 
APPLE) 

1 .  A  word  is  spoken  into  a  microphone:  Apple. 

2.  Apple  is  repeated  by  an  echo  chamber— A. P. P. P. P. P. P. 

3.  An  audio-electronic  system  transforms  the  sound 
repeated  by  the  echo  into  ultra-sonic  sound. 

4.  Two  ultra-sonic  beams,  projected  by  magneto-stric- 
tion  rods  into  a  transparent  sphere,  diameter  4',  meet 
at  a  certain  point. 

5.  At  this  point,  an  apple  is  placed.  It  bursts. 

Instrumentation: 

Section  1:    microphone 

10  watt  amplifier 
loudspeaker 
reverberation  circuitry* 

Section  2:   audio  to 

5-kw  amplifier  at  30  kHz 

3  magneto-striction  transducers* 

fixtures  to  mount  and  focus  transducers* 

Section  3:   construction  time  for  starred  (*)  items  above 

'APPLE'  PROJECT 

PURPOSE 

The  purpose  of  the  technological  phase  of  this  project  is: 

1.  Provide  controlled  reverberation  of  the  spoken 
word, 

2.  Supply  by  transduction  and  gain,  ultrasonic 
energy  sufficient  to  shatter  a  spherical  object,  such 
as  an  apple, 

3.  Devise  and  construct  the  instrumentation  and 
apparatus  to  carry  out  1  and  2. 

The  subsequent  description  of  the  Project  will  be  divided 
into  sections  corresponding  to  the  above  division. 

SECTION  1:  REVERBERATION 
The  action  will  be  initiated  by  a  spoken  word  or  phrase. 
This  will  be  picked  up  by  a  microphone,  amplified,  and 
supplied  to  a  loudspeaker.  By  conventional  controlled 
reverberation  circuitry,  a  portion  of  this  will  be  fed  back 


96 


to  the  input  and  the  spectator  (participant)  will  hear  a 
gradually  diminishing  repetition  of  the  input  sound. 

SECTION  2:  ULTRASONICS 
Since  inadequate  energy  is  available  in  the  audible 
portion  of  the  spectrum,  it  will  be  necessary  to  trans- 
form the  input  into  some  other  energy  form  to  accom- 
plish the  desired  effect.  It  has  been  decided  to  use  ultra- 
sonic devices.  A  portion  of  the  audible  output  in  1  is 
heterodyned  to  provide  an  ultrasonic  input.  This  is 
amplified  to  a  level  of  several  kilowatts  and  applied  to 
two  or  three  magnetostriction  transducers.  These  will  be 
aimed  and  focused  on  the  apple.  By  adjusting  the  level 
of  the  input,  and  setting  the  time  interval,  the  precise 
time  after  the  word  or  phrase  is  uttered  at  which  the 
apple  is  shattered  can  be  determined.  It  is  proposed  that 
the  transducers  be  located  several  inches  away  from  the 
apple,  but  subsequent  considerations  may  require 
contact. 

SECTIONS:  INSTRUMENTATION 
The  following  apparatus  will  be  required: 
Section  1 :   microphone 

10-watt  amplifier 

loudspeaker 

reverberation  cicuitry* 

Section  2;   audio-to-ultrasonic  converter 
5-kw  amplifier  at  30kHz 
3  magnetostriction  transducers* 
fixtures  to  mount  and  focus  transducers* 

Section  3:   construction  time  for  starred  (*)  items  above 

Shortly  after  these  proposals  were  sent,  Dupuy  sent  us  an 
elaborated  version  of  Sparks.  [1]  We  felt  this  proposal  to 
be  the  most  likely  possibility  for  Ampex,  and  thus  sent  it 
on  with  the  following  letter  to  the  company  president  from 
Hal  Glicksman: 
Dear  Mr.  Roberts, 

Ampex  has  shown  interest  in  our  Art  and  Technology 
project  from  Its  germinal  phase  in  late  1967,  and  still  no 
artist  is  at  work  in  your  company.  After  numerous 
artists  have  toured  and  submitted  proposals,  the  choice 
has  devolved  upon  a  project  by  French  artist,  Jean 
Dupuy,  called  Sparks.  Dupuy  was  one  of  six  winners  in 
a  competition  for  artists  and  engineers  who  were  in- 
cluded in  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art's  exhibition,  'The 
Machine  as  Seen  at  the  End  of  the  Mechanical  Age.'  This 
exhibition  is  currently  on  view  at  San  Francisco  Museum 
of  Art. 

Dr.  Spitzer  has  seen  the  project  and  is  concerned  that  a 
skilled  electronics  technician  will  have  to  work  for  214 
months  to  complete  the  project.  He  has  asked  us  to 
make  a  formal  request  to  your  office  for  this  time.  A 


technician's  time  is  precisely  the  resource  that  any  artist 
would  most  need  while  working  at  Ampex. 

If  you  could  satisfy  Dr.  Spitzer's  concern  that  his  own 
department  would  not  have  to  carry  the  task  through 
unaided,  we  would  be  very  grateful. 

Ampex's  respomse  to  HG's  letter,  written  by  Executive  Vice- 
President  Arthur  H.  Hausman,  was  negative: 
Dear  Mr.  Glicksman: 

Mr.  William  E.  Roberts  has  forwarded  to  me  your  letter 
of  24  June  1969.  I  have  reviewed  this  matter  with  Dr. 
Charles  Spitzer,  and  discussed  it  with  Mr.  Roberts.  It 
appears,  from  all  the  information  which  I  have  been  able 
to  gather  that  Mr.  Dupuy  has  made  a  number  of 
proposals  which,  while  certainly  interesting,  places  us  in 
the  somewhat  embarrassing  position  of  essentially  con- 
structing for  him  that  which  he,  as  the  artist,  in  my  judg- 
ment should  be  more  responsible  for  creating.  From  dis- 
cussion with  Dr.  Spitzer,  some  of  the  artists  who  toured 
Ampex  appear  to  fit  into  the  category  reflected  by  Mr. 
Dupuy's  proposals— i.e.,  they  have  an  idea  but  they 
essentially  want  Ampex  to  do  the  bulk  of  the  work  in 
creating  the  art  form,  while  other  artists  who  have 
toured  Ampex  have  left  the  impression  that  if  they  were 
to  work  in  our  company  they  would,  in  fact,  be  much 
more  involved  in  the  creative  work  itself  than  has  been 
indicated  by  Mr.  Dupuy. 

Accordingly,  I  would  suggest  that  since  the  success  of 
this  program  depends  upon  a  mutual  understanding  and 
a  good  rapport  between  the  sponsors,  the  artist,  and  the 
company,  that  you  seek  to  find  another  artist  satisfac- 
tory to  you,  but  with  whom  we  believe  we  will  find  a 
better  relationship  than  is  indicated  in  he  case  of  Mr. 
Dupuy. 

Dupuy's  proposals  were  not  sent  to  other  corporations— by 
this  time  most  of  those  companies  which  could  have  imple- 
mented his  works  were  either  matched  with  other  artists  or 
had  proved  uncooperative.  We  relegated  his  file,  with 
numerous  others,  to  pending  status. 

In  September,  the  Cummins  Engine  Company  of  Columbus, 
Indiana,  having  heard  about  A  &  T  through  the  news  media, 
telephoned  the  Museum  to  inquire  about  the  program  and 
perhaps  offer  their  participation.  We  sent  a  packet  of  litera- 
ture, with  the  brochure  describing  the  terms  of  corporation 
participation,  to  Cummins'  Public  Relations  representative 
Dan  Graves.  Graves  telephoned  within  a  few  days  to  express 
Cummins'  interest  in  becoming  a  Patron  Sponsor;  contracts 
were  sent  from  the  Museum.  We  began  to  think  seriously 
about  artists  whom  we  felt  might  work  with  diesel  engines. 
It  was  a  problem  requiring  imagination.  Through  Dan 
Graves,  whom  JL  spoke  to  on  several  occasions  between 
mid-November,  when  the  contract  was  finally  signed  and 


97 


A&T 


£&OJECT: 


^PAfP^S 


Jean  Dupuy 
1969 


Words  spoken  into  a  microphone  are  converted  into  electrical  impulses,  then  amp 1 i f i ed 
to  a  voltage  strong  enough  to  generate  sparks  upon  a  metal  plaque  (bursts  variable 
according  to  the  phonetic  properties  of  the  words) . 

Technology:   Based  upon  the  same  principle  as  the  color  organ  or  the  phonetic  type- 
writer (I.B.M.)  which  will  transcribe  spoken  words  directly.   Specific  information 
results  from  conversation  with  Mr.  Cecil  Coker,  Bell  Labs,  Summit,  New  Jersey. 

rLTLTl 


Speech  Recognition  Ideas 
A.    Pitch  Detector 

TKea.  RESPONSE 


F«fa.  (?es«)wse 


iPiZ/y\)'Po^  PRO- 

Vowel-Sensitive  Circuits 

(Vowels  are  identified  by  resonances  of  the  mouth  -  circuits  can  be 
built  to  select  usually  one  resonance  per  circuit  -  a  frequency  meter 
system  like  the  pitch  detector  can  determine  frequency  of  that  resonance.) 


3cx>»  looo  Vvv. 


VOOO-i.^fiO 


^ 


OVJC- 
SWOT 

Vow 

»« 

*« 

«« 

•■MOtiyUTIOlJ- 


Same  as 

->       A60VE 


C.   Voiced   -   Voiceless  Decision    (Differentiation  of  Consonants) 


tow-  reiQoiMCT 


T 


D.  Narrow  Band  Filters  (say  300  hz.  wide)  centered  at  various  frequencies 
(300-500,  500-800,  1500-1800,  etc.) 


II. 


Spark  Generation 

A.  Tesla  Coil   --  Corona  Discharge  (especially  corona  discharge  loudspeakers 
used  in  micorphone  calibration) . 


B.  Modulation  of  an  Arc  Welder 

1.  A-C  Arc  Welder  with  silicon  controlled  rectifiers  (doubtful) . 

2.  Modify  the  control  circuits  of  a  D-C  arc  welder;  rapid  on-off 
switching  of  welding  machine  controlled  by  SCR  (silicon-cont.  rect.) 


Participation  of  public:  i^    Properties  of  the  spoken  word  (pitch,  vowel-  or  consonant: 
structure)  translated  into  varying  bursts  of  sparks. 

2.  Possible  manipulation  of  stylus  which  will  provoke  sparks. 


98 


returned,  and  January,  we  were  pressed  to  consider  a 
number  of  artists  favored  by  Cummins'  President,  J.  Irwin 
Miller,  himself  a  collector  of  art  and  energetic  promoter  of 
corporation  support  of  the  arts.  (The  town  of  Columbus  is 
famous  for  its  many  public  and  private  buildings  designed 
by  eminent  modern  architects;  Miller  has  been  chiefly,  if 
not  solely,  responsible  for  this.)  The  artists  mentioned  re- 
peatedly as  being  foremost  on  Cummins'  list  of  preferences 
were  Vasarely,  Warhol  and  Lichtenstein.  The  two  latter 
were  of  course  already  matched  to  corporations  under  Art 
and  Technology;  Vasarely  had  been  involved  early  in  the 
project  with  a  proposal  studied  by  several  companies,  but 
was  no  longer  under  consideration.  Aside  from  these 
factors,  however,  it  was  for  obvious  reasons  not  easy  for  us 
to  envision  any  of  these  artists  as  likely  candidates  for 
Cummins.  The  artist  who  did  come  to  mind  as  a  possibility 
was  Jean  Dupuy.  In  late  October,  we  had  received  a  new 
proposal  from  Dupuy,  via  his  friend  Irene  Winter  in  New 
York: 

Project:  THE  AUTO 

In  a  large  space  (hall),  very  dimly  lit,  an  automobile- 
situated  in  the  center  of  the  room  and  slightly  raised 
(the  wheels  in  space).  At  the  steering  wheel,  a  driver. 
This  latter  will  start  the  motor  and  will  utilize  alternate- 
ly or  simultaneously  different  energies  of  the  vehicle 
which  will  in  turn  make  'sculptures'  appear  in  different 
parts  of  the  hall,  related  to  the  four  natural  elements. 

AIR 
Burned  gas  leaving  the  exhaust  pipe  will  be  conducted 
by  an  air-tight  tube  into  a  closed  space,  transparent  on 
three  sides  and  having  an  evacuation  chimney.  Within 
this  space  the  vapors  of  the  gas  will  be  made  visible  by  a 
luminous  process  (to  be  specified). 


FIRE 
From  the  rim  of  one  of  the  two  hind  wheels  a  transmis- 
sion band  is  relayed  to  the  hub  of  another  wheel  equip- 
ped with  a  tire  and  placed  perpendicular  to  a  metal 
plaque  in  such  a  way  as  to  create  friction  between  the 
two.  The  point  of  a  nail,  fixed  inside,  extends  from  the 
wheel.  The  contact  of  metal  plaque  and  nail  on  the 
plaque  and  an  explosion  of  sparks  each  time  the  brake  is 
hit. 


EARTH 

In  a  closed  and  transparent  space,  some  kind  of  powder 
or  dust  made  from  earth  will  rest  on  a  membrane  of 
rubber  stretched  over  a  speaker.  The  vibrations  of  the 
motor,  amplified  by  the  acceleration  and  transmitted  to 
the  speaker  by  a  simple  electronic  system,  of  which  the 
volume  will  be  controlled  by  the  rotation  of  the  steering 
wheel,  will  set  the  powder  in  motion— visible  only  in  the 
beam  of  the  two  headlights  which  will  thus  create  two 
horizontal  cones  of  dust. 


WATER 
Perhaps  utilize  either  the  water  from  the  windshield- 
wiper  system  or  the  water  of  the  radiator  (to  be 
studied). 

We  contacted  Dupuy  in  New  York  to  mention  the  availabil- 
ity of  Cummins.  Dupuy  and  Miss  Winter  traveled  to  Colum- 
bus in  January,  toured  the  plant,  met  with  Mr.  Miller,  and 
returned  to  New  York  feeling  enthusiastic  about  the  pros- 
pect of  a  collaboration.  Dupuy  said  of  his  first 
meeting  with  J.  Irwin  Miller,  "I  described  the  engine  project 
to  him,  and  he  understood  it  immediately.  He  is  a  charming 
man— shy,  after  all,  like  me.  Very  quick  and  intelligent.  I 
made  him  a  little  drawing,  and  he  said,  'O.K.'  Just  like  that. 
'Beautiful.'  "  It  was  decided  that  Dupuy  would  move  to 
Columbus  on  March  1  and  expect  to  reside  there  for  three 
months. 

After  this  initial  visit  to  Cummins,  Dupuy  wrote  up  his  pro- 
posal, which  he  called  Fewafuel  (1970): 

A  Cummins  diesel  engine  will  be  shown  in  working  con- 
dition. The  public  participates  by  sitting  in  a  driver's  seat 
and  operating  certain  controls,  such  as  pedal  and  clutch. 
The  four  natural  elements:  FIRE,  EARTH,  WATER, 
AIR,  which,  either  as  sources  of  energy  or  as  wastes,  are 
part  of  the  functioning  engine,  will  be  made  visible  with 
minimal  elaboration. 

1 .  To  respect  the  form  of  the  engine. 

2.  To  indicate  the  basis  in  Nature  of  the  engine's 
system. 

3.  To  sense  the  power  of  the  engine  by  sound. 

Clearly  this  conception  derives  from  the  Auto  proposal 
which  preceded  it,  and  which  Dupuy  had  actually  presented 
to  Renault  in  Paris,  but  which  was  considered  too  ambi- 
tious in  scope  for  Renault  to  execute  at  that  time. 

Dupuy  worked  steadily  at  Cummins  from  March  1  through 
the  end  of  May.  He  was  received  with  extraordinary  solici- 
tousness  by  the  Cummins  personnel.  The  first  person 
Dupuy  was  put  in  contact  with  was  a  Swiss  engineer,  Willy 
Henny,  the  head  of  one  of  Cummins'  engine  divisions. 
Henny  was  to  work  closely  with  the  artist  during  the  entire 
development  of  the  project.  On  the  first  day  they  met, 
according  to  Dupuy, 

We  spent  the  entire  day  talking.  This  man,  who  is  abso- 
lutely remote  from  the  art  world,  understood  very  well 
what  I  wanted.  He  was  interested  in  a  specific  problem  I 
presented,  which  was  to  make  a  window  in  the  engine 
showing  the  combustion  chamber  while  the  engine  was 
working.  This  represented  a  difficult  technical  problem 
to  be  resolved  ....  I  didn't  know  whether  we  could 
show  the  fire.  I  thought  it  might  be  impossible.  I  knew 
that  there  is  no  fire  in  an  engine,  except  in  the  exhaust 


99 


A&T 


part  of  a  gasoline  engine— but  not  in  a  diesel  engine.  So  I 
thought  the  smol<e  would  have  to  represent  the  fire,  and 
the  earth  would  be  the  carbon  monoxide  residue. 

Henny  was  able  to  resolve  this  problem;  in  the  completed 
engine,  each  element  envisioned  by  Dupuy  is  displayed 
fully. 

Cummins  organized  the  Dupuy  project  to  proceed  like 
clockwork.  Besides  Henny,  two  other  engineers  worked 
daily  on  the  development  of  the  engine,  and  toward  the  end 
of  the  collaboration,  three  shop  workers  were  involved  on  a 
full-time  basis.  The  following  memorandum,  one  of  many, 
conveys  some  idea  of  the  magnitude  of  the  operation,  and 
its  logistical  complexity: 

Status  Report-V-470  Engine 
For  Art  Exhibit 

The  program  is  currently  running  slightly  ahead  of 
schedule.  It  is  understood  that  a  commitment  has  been 
made  to  representatives  of  the  Los  Angeles  Art  Museum 
who  wish  the  'package'  early  in  May  and  the  schedule 
of  March  17,  1970,  has  been  determined  to  accomplish 
this. 


1 

Following  is  the  status  of  items  on  the  March  17 
schedule: 

Item    1— Assemble  and  mount  engine  and  radiator- 
complete 

Item    2— Water  flow  tests— complete 

Item    3— Evaluate  one  bank  operation— complete 

Item    4— Evaluate  quartz  crystal  in  cylinder  head— Parts 
are  in  machine  shop.  This  phase  will  be  com- 
pleted when  unit  is  assembled.  Expected  com- 
pletion date-5-15-70. 

Item    5— Mount  complete  unit— Expected  completion 
date-5-1-70. 


Item    6— Operate  on  test  cycle— Planned  completion 
date-5-29-70. 

Item    7— Update  unit  and  prepare  for  shipment— Expec- 
ted completion  date— 6-5-70. 

Item    8— Obtain  or  fabricate  sub-base— Complete. 

Item    9— Design  and  obtain  cylinder  head  insert— Ex- 
pected completion  date— 4-27-70. 

Item  10— Obtain  fuel  tank,  batteries,  and  controls.  Fuel 
tank,  battery  eliminator,  and  electrical  controls 
are  on  order.  The  throttle  control  will  be 
developed  when  the  unit  is  built. 

Item  1 1— Design  and  obtain  exhaust  viewing  chamber- 
Chamber  has  been  obtained.  Mounting  parts 
are  designed  and  a  price  is  awaited  from  a  local 
shop.  Expected  completion  date— 5-1-70. 

Material  for  the  exhaust  system  in  the  component  area  is 
held  up  because  of  labor  problems  in  the  trucking 
Industry.  If  material  is  not  received  this  week  substitute 
material  will  be  used  so  that  the  system  is  operable  by 
May  1,1970. 

In  early  May,  Jane  Livingston  stopped  in  Columbus  for  two 
days  en  route  between  New  York  and  Los  Angeles,  and  saw 
the  Fewafuel's  maiden  voyage.  The  black  painted  engine 
was  not  yet  completed,  missing  still  the  inverted  bell  jar 
which  would  collect  carbon  debris  and  thus  represent  the 
"Earth"  element,  and  the  window  which  would  provide  a 
glimpse  of  the  fuel  in  combustion,  thus  "Fire";  but  the 
other  two  elements— water,  gushing  through  a  section  of 
glass  piping;  and  air— being  the  fan  system— were  in  evi- 
dence. Perhaps  most  conspicuous  was  the  element  of  sound, 
which  was  overpowering.  The  only  device  finally  incorpora- 
ted to  allow  spectator  participation  was  a  throttle  with 
which  one  could  speed  up  or  slow  the  rate  of  engine  turn- 
over. 


100 


Dupuy's  final  statement,  or  description,  of  the  work,  is 
essentially  a  simplified  version  of  his  earlier  proposals: 
Fewafuel 

A  diesel  engine  will  be  shown  in  working  condition.  The 
four  natural  elements:  FIRE,  EARTH,  WATER,  AIR, 
which  (either  as  sources  of  energy  or  as  wastes)  are  part 
of  the  functioning  engine,  will  be  made  visible  with 
minimal  elaboration. 

The  public  will  participate  by  sitting  in  a  driver's  seat 
and  operating  a  throttle. 

In  several  respects,  the  Dupuy /Cummins  collaboration  was 
singular  in  the  context  of  A  &  T.  Dupuy,  unlike  many  of 
the  other  artists,  lived  and  worked  in  the  corporation  for 
three  months,  without  interruption,  and  he  made  a  distinct 
impact,  not  only  on  the  corporation  but  on  the  community 
of  Columbus  by  his  presence  there. 

During  the  first  two  weeks  of  Dupuy's  residence  in  Colum- 
bus, Cummins  rebuilt  his  Heart  Beats  Dust  piece,  and  ar- 
ranged for  it  to  be  shown  publicly  in  a  local  high  school 
auditorium.  The  artist  also  presented  two  other  works,  one 
involving  projected  slides,  the  other  fWm— Paris-Bordeaux 
and  Central  Park,  both  made  in  1969.  These  presentations 
were  received  with  lively  interest  by  the  community. 
Dupuy  said  later, 

For  the  first  time,  I  was  working  on  an  art  project  which 
involved  a  whole  town  ....  I  met  a  great  many  people 
who  asked,  'What  is  your  project?  What  are  you  doing 
with  an  engine?'  These  people  were  waiting  for  the  re- 
sults. I  showed  Heart  Beats  Dust  and  two  other  works  in 
local  high  schools.  This  town  was  really  involved  in  a 
piece  of  art .  .  .  for  the  first  time.  That  was  terrific— 
because  for  me  art  is  quite  dead.  The  art  world  is  so 


small,  actually,  that  society  generally  is  not  concerned 
....  It  was  for  me  a  new  relationship  between  art— my 
art— and  society. 

It  was  difficult  for  me  sometimes.  The  second  day  I  was 
there,  I  was  arrested  by  the  police,  when  I  was  walking 
at  night.  I  suppose  it  was  because  of  my  long  hair,  etc. 
But  I  wanted  to  be  visible,  not  invisible,  precisely  for  the 
reason  that  I  am  an  artist,  and  I  want  to  push  people  in 
the  direction  of  art.  These  people,  you  see,  are  so  far 
from  my  own  philosophy,  if  I  have  one  ....  But  finally 
it  worked.  By  the  end,  the  people  were  receptive.  Just 
before  I  left,  I  presented  my  Paris-Bordeaux  work  in  a 
high  school  gymnasium,  and  it  was  a  success. 

The  collaboration  between  Dupuy  and  Cummins  resulted  in 
what  is  certainly  the  most  literal  esthetic  embodiment  of  a 
particular  industrial  product  or  technology  produced  under 
A  &  T.  Rather  than  using  a  specialized  process,  or  combina- 
tion of  techniques,  as  means  to  an  essentially  nonmimetic 
esthetic  end,  Dupuy  chose  simply  to  work  with  a  functional 
machine,  allowing  it  to  remain  essentially  integral.  He  said. 
My  intention  has  been  to  escape  an  esthetic  point  of 
view— thus  I  show  the  engine  as  it  is ...  .  The  engine  has 
a  certain  reality.  The  car  or  the  truck  is  probably  the 
most  usual  object  of  our  time.  The  engine  is  also  prob- 
ably the  primary  image  of  the  capitalist  economy  .... 
[But]  to  show  the  engine  is  to  show  nature,  not  just 
technology  ....  It  is  the  humanization  of  a  technologi- 
cal thing.  I  destroyed  the  function  of  the  engine,  and 
transformed  the  fuel,  taken  from  the  earth,  into  earth 
again.  Earth  to  earth— that's  too  Biblical— but  that's  what 
I  did. 

Jane  Livingston 


Frederick  Eversley 

Born  Brooklyn,  New  York,  1941 
Resident  Los  Angeles 


A&T 


In  July,  1969,  we  invited  Frederick  Eversley,  a  Los  Angeles 
sculptor  and  former  electronics  engineer,  to  visit  Ampex 
Corporation.  Eversley,  accompanied  by  Hal  Glicksman, 
went  to  the  Redwood  City  facility  where  he  met  Dr. 
Charles  Spitzer,  and  toured  the  optics  laboratory.  In 
addition  to  showing  the  artist  their  various  laser  research 
displays,  Spitzer  introduced  Eversley  to  liquid  crystals. 
Ampex  uses  neumatic  liquid  crystals,  which  are  voltage 
sensitive,  in  their  computer  memory  systems.  Spitzer  also 
described  cholesteric  crystals,  which  have  the  property  of 
reflecting  light  at  different  wavelengths  according  to  the 
temperature  of  the  surface  material.  The  crystals  assume 
different  hues— from  pearlescent  reds  to  deep  blues— as  the 
temperature  shifts.  They  discussed  the  possibility  of 
employing  cholesteric  liquid  crystals  as  an  artistic  medium. 

After  this  visit,  Eversley  researched  the  area  of  liquid 
crystals  on  his  own,  and  in  August  presented  us  with  a 
project  proposal,  excerpts  of  which  follow: 

.  . .  The  specific  hue  is  dependent  upon  the  temperature 
within  the  range  with  a  red  hue  appearance  at  the  lowest 
range  temperature  and,  progressing  through  the  visible 
spectrum  with  increasing  temperature,  to  a  violet  hue 
appearance  at  the  highest  range  temperature.  Below  and 
above  the  specified  temperature  range  the  liquid  crystals 
appear  colorless.  The  liquid  crystals  are  completely 
reversible  in  their  temperature-color  behavior  and  have  a 
thermal  response  of  less  than  one  second.  The  above 
described  properties  of  cholestic  liquid  crystals  suggest 
their  use  as  a  display  medium  on  which  multi-color 
images  may  be  constructed  by  controlling  the  instantan- 
eous temperature  of  each  selected  element  of  liquid 
crystal  area  on  the  display  surface.  This  proposal  defines 
a  project  which  utilizes  cholestic  liquid  crystals  as  a 
display  medium  and  a  programmed  heat  source  to  create 
images  on  the  display  medium. 

Project  Description:  The  project  will  consist  of  perform- 
ing the  necessary  R&D,  design,  construction  and  image 
programming  of  a  large  scale  multi-color  environment 
using  liquid  crystal  compounds  as  the  display  medium 
and  program  controlled  directional  heat  sources.  The 
environment  may  take  the  shape  of  a  flat  panel,  curved 
panel,  circular  enclosure,  hemispherical  dome  or  a 
section  of  a  hemispherical  dome. 

The  environment  will  utilize  a  structural  material  (wood, 
metal,  glass,  plastic,  etc.)  as  the  supporting  substrate  to 
which  the  liquid  crystal  display  medium  will  be  applied. 
The  substrate  material  may  either  be  opaque  such  as 
wood  or  metal  or  translucent/transparent  such  as  glass  or 
plastic.  If  use  of  a  translucent  or  transparent  substrate 
proves  feasible,  it  will  provide  a  double  color  effect  with 
the  color  images  on  one  side  being  reflected  light  in 
nature  in  a  manner  analogous  to  a  painting  and  the  color 
images  on  the  opposite  side  being  transmitted  light  in 
nature  in  a  manner  analogous  to  a  color  transparency. 


The  program  controlled  heat  source  may  be  a  laser  or  a 
collimated  beam  of  infrared  incandescent  light.  The 
multi-color  images  will  be  written  onto  the  liquid  crystal 
display  medium  by  sweeping  the  surface  of  the  display 
medium  with  the  heat  beam  from  the  program  control- 
led heat  source.  Optical-mechanical  methods  are  en- 
visioned to  accomplish  the  horizontal/vertical  heat  beam 
sweep  in  a  manner  analogous  to  the  horizontal/vertical 
sweeping  of  an  electron  beam  in  CRT  devices.  The  multi- 
color image  will  be  constructed  by  instantaneous  modu- 
lation (varying  the  intensity)  of  the  heat  source,  under 
program  control,  during  the  horizontal/vertical  sweep 
process.  The  optical-mechanical  sweeping  mechanism 
and  the  intensity  of  the  heat  source  will  be  controlled  by 
a  tape  recorded  program.  A  thermal  feedback  system 
will  be  employed,  if  necessary,  to  compensate  for 
changes  in  the  ambient  temperature  surrounding  the 
environment. 

The  location  of  the  heat  source  and  associated  sweep 
optics  may  be  arranged  to  permit  a  limited  degree  of 
spectator  interference  with  the  sweeping  heat  beam.  This 
interference  will  result  in  the  thermal  shadows,  of 
varying  hues  on  the  programmed  images  on  the  display 
medium  surface.  These  shadows  will  result  in  human 
forms  in  varying  hues  to  be  mixed  with  the  pre-program- 
med images  appearing  on  the  display  surface,  and  in 
greater  active  participation  of  the  spectators  with  the 
environment.  The  hues  of  the  various  parts  of  the  human 
shadow  form  or  forms  will  depend  upon  their  relative 
speed  of  movement  and  their  size  and  shape  will  depend 
upon  their  distance  from  the  heat  source. 

Ampex  agreed  to  proceed  with  the  project.  Over  the  next 
few  months  Eversley  continued  his  research,  reading  virtual- 
ly all  trade  literature  on  liquid  crystals— their  properties, 
durability  and  methods  of  application.  He  conducted  exper- 
iments in  his  studio  to  test  various  surfaces  and  techniques 
of  spraying  the  material.  He  elected  to  work  this  way,  inde- 
pendently, before  spending  an  extended  period  of  residence 
at  Ampex.  Throughout  this  time  he  maintained  contact 
with  Spitzer. 

As  this  catalog  is  being  prepared,  Eversley's  project  is  still  in 
the  research  stage.  He  now  wants  a  three-dimensional 
matrix  of  translucent  liquid  crystal  imagery.  The  crystals 
would  be  sprayed  onto  thin  layers  of  plastic  or  possibly 
sheer  silk,  each  layer  w/Mh  a  different  temperature  char- 
acteristic and  creating  a  "thermal  barrier"  for  the  next.  And 
he  has  tentatively  decided  that  instead  of  programming  the 
piece,  the  kinetic  interaction  of  exhibition  spectators 
should  cause  the  temperature  variation  and  subsequent 
shifting  of  hues,  by  triggering  the  heat  source— a  narrow 
focusing  light,  perhaps  a  mercury  vapor  or  tungsten  iodine 
lamp. 


Oyvind  Fahlstrom 

Born  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil,  1928 
Resident  Stockholm,  Sweden 


102 


In  January,  1969,  Jane  Livingston  telephoned  Oyvind  Fahl- 
strom to  invite  him  to  Los  Angeles  to  tour  corporations- 
primarily  the  Container  Corporation  of  America.  Fahl- 
strom's  response  to  our  suggestion  was  prompt  and  positive. 
He  wrote. 

Very  excited  about  possibility  of  working  with  industry 
for  your  show.  I  think  Container  Corporation  would 
offer  the  most  interesting  opportunities. 

Off  the  cuff  (and  without  having  had  time  to  consult 
their  New  York  office,  as  I  am  a  week  from  the  opening 
of  my  show  at  Janis)  I  have  a  few  very  general  sugges- 
tions: 

1.  ultralarge-and-light  (laminated?)  structures  (flat  sil- 
houettes, to  be  assembled  in  different  ways.) 

2.  ultralight  flat  shapes  floating  on  air-cushion 

3.  giant  coloured  plastic  bubbles,  changing  shapes  de- 
pending on  how  much  air  is  inflated 

4.  structures  in  self-disposing,  decaying  material  ('wither 
away'  automatically,  gradually,  different  parts  at  dif- 
ferent pace) 

5.  plastic  gel  'blobs'-that  can  change  in  shape  and  can 
have  hard-and-flat  shapes  inserted  (and  taken  out 
without  marks,  holes) 

Now,  my  problem  as  you  know  is  one  of  time  and  space. 
On  a  very  tentative  basis  I  could  think  of  a  time  schedule 

1 .  first  confrontation  with  company,  March  11-12,  or 
12-13  (Have  to  be  in  N.Y.  by  15th)-(Mail  detailed 
project  descriptions  during  spring) 

2.  see  models,  samples  etc.  1-20  September 

3.  follow  production  etc.  7-20  December 

4.  check  finished  works  1-7  February 


(Unlikely  alternative— might  possibly  spend  vacation, 
August,  in  L.A.  and  maybe  stay  through  Sept.  10th  or 
so;  maybe  skip  3  or  4.) 

We  brought  Fahlstrom  to  Los  Angeles  on  March  10.  The 
next  day,  he  toured  the  Container  Corporation's  Folding 
Carton  Division  and  was  shown  examples  of  various  die-cut, 
flat  containers— margarine  boxes,  for  example,  printed  and 
repeated  endlessly  on  sheets  of  board— and  witnessed  the 
machine  processes  of  cutting,  folding  and  assembling  these 
containers.  Fahlstrom's  response  to  what  he  saw  at  Contain- 
er was  somewhat  apathetic.  (In  a  note  from  Sweden  some 
weeks  later,  he  said  "Heven't  worked  out  anything  for  Con- 
tainer Corporation— feel  limitations  push  me  into  minimal- 
ist bag— which  isn't  mine  [i.e.  non-experimental 
minimalist] ." 

Since  it  was  clear  that  Fahlstrom  was  not  immediately 
inspired  by  his  view  of  this  corporation,  we  spent  several 
hours  reviewing  the  list  of  contracted,  still  available  corpor- 
ations to  determine  what  other  companies  he  might  visit 
while  he  was  in  L.A.  We  arranged  a  tour  at  Eldon,  a  toy 
manufacturing  company,  which  failed  to  elicit  much  re- 
sponse of  any  sort.  It  seemed  to  us  also  that  Heath  and 
Company,  who  had  joined  with  us  in  January,  '69  as  a 
Sponsor  Corporation,  might  be  of  interest  to  Oyvind.  Heath 
makes  commercial  signs.  The  materials  and  techniques  re- 
quired for  this  seemingly  straightforward  product  are,  to 
say  the  least,  diverse.  The  fabricating  of  a  Colonel  Sanders 
or  Fosters  Freeze  sign  involves  elaborately  formed  compon- 
ents of  anodized  aluminum,  other  sheet  metals  and  plexi- 
glass; if  the  sign  revolves  or  is  illuminated  in  its  interior, 
mechanical  and  electrical  systems  are  of  course  needed  as 
well.  [1,2] 


103 


A&T 


In  view  of  Fahlstrom's  past  three-dimensional  work,  it  was 
evident  to  us  that  Heath,  more  than  a  conventional  steel  or 
aluminum  or  plastics  company,  might  at  least  offer  him  the 
opportunity  to  execute  a  tableau  on  a  more  extensive  scale 
than  would  be  remotely  possible  for  him  on  his  own,  and 
with  a  greater  variety  of  materials  and  colors  and  textures. 
Fahlstrom  visited  Heath  on  March  12  and  was  impressed  by 
the  craftsmanship  of  the  skilled  technicians  who  hand- 
sawed  sheet  metal  into  complicated  shapes,  and  by  the 
extensive  plastic  forming  facilities.  And  it  is  impossible  not 
to  be  delighted  by  the  enormous  yard  surrounding  the  plant 
which  is  filled  with  a  staggering  array  of  gigantic,  eccentric- 
ally shaped  and  fantastically  colorful  outdoor  signs. 

After  touring  three  corporations,  Fahlstrom  had  begun  to 

limit  his  objectives  somewhat.  He  later  said. 

My  idea  was  when  I  originally  heard  about  A&T,  that  I 
would  get  involved  with  huge  companies  with  research 
programs  or  laboratories,  so  that  I  could  propose  some- 
thing I've  never  done,  without  knowing  what  might 
come  out.  Like  shapes  that  would  float  in  the  air  by 
themselves,  and  expand  or  contract  depending  on  the 
flow  of  air.  Or  another  idea  I  had  was  to  make  a  sculp- 
ture that  would  decay  by  itself  by  some  sort  of  air  or 
temperature  action.  Or  the  idea  of  a  plastic  fountain— 
you'd  have  some  sort  of  plastic  fluid  that  would  come 
out  like  water  and  then  coagulate  and  form  shapes,  and 
gradually  it  would  become  larger  and  larger.  But  then  I 
visited  two  companies,  a  toy  company  and  the  Container 
Corporation,  that  were  based  on  a  multiplying  thing, 
according  to  a  module.  The  point  would  be  making 


molds,  or  models;  and  then  having  a  great  many  objects 
made  from  them.  I  did  think  for  a  while  of  having  the 
Container  Corporation  make  up  sort  of  molecular 
models,  geometrically  shaped  boxes  that  you  could  com- 
bine and  let  grow  into  a  structure. 

It  should  be  noted  that  Fahlstrom's  interest,  at  least  con- 
ceptually, in  making  non-sculptural  or  non-graphic  works 
dates  back  several  years.  He  was  rather  closely  associated 
with  E.A.T.  in  its  early  years.  The  March  18,  1968  issue  of 
E.A.T.  News  includes  several  of  his  ideas  which  are  related 
to  the  proposals  in  his  first  letter  to  us;  these  ideas  were 
conceived,  according  to  the  News  Letter,  in  1966: 

Fahlstrom  and  Rauschenberg  want  to  float,  suspended  in 

air. 

Control  objects  at  a  distance. 

One  or  more  floating  forms  following  man  that  moves. 

Activate  objects  at  distance  with  vortex  gun,  heat,  light- 
beam. 

Balloons  coming  out  of  head.  Like  thought  balloons. 

Clouds. 

Fahlstrom  did  in  fact  participate  in  E.A.T.'s  Nine  Evenings 
in  October,  1966,  with  a  performance  work  called  Kisses 
Sweeter  than  Wine.  The  work  incorporated  film,  video  tape 
and  sound  elements,  as  well  as  "  'snow  bubbles'  rising  from 
the  ground,  people  enveloped  by  'clouds'. .  .  .",  etc.  The 
artist  said  in  the  catalog  which  accompanied  Nine  Evenings, 
"I  think  of  it  as  initiation  rites  for  a  new  medium.  Total 
Theatre." 


104 


Despite  Fahlstrom's  longstanding  involvement  with  a  "tech- 
nological/conceptual" esthetic,  the  major  part  of  his 
oeuvre,  and  that  work  which  finally  establishes  him  as  an 
artist  of  stature,  is  graphic  and  sculptural.  Fahlstrom  is  pro- 
foundly concerned  with  iconography  in  his  work.  Certain 
images  appear  again  and  again  in  variant  forms  [3] ;  these 
images  all  have  specific,  symbolic  meaning  for  him.  Only  by 
recognizing  this  obsession  with  a  highly  developed  personal 
iconography,  whose  images  are  often  taken  from  arch- 
typically  Kitsch  sources  (popular  magazines,  posters,  cine- 
matic cliches!  can  one  understand  the  importance  for  Fahl- 
strom, and  ultimately  for  his  A  &  T  project,  of  a  particular 
event  which  occurred  during  his  brief  visit  to  Los  Angeles  in 
March,  1969:  Hal  Glicksman  showed  him  a  series  of  ZAP 
comic  books.  The  first  issue  of  ZAP  appeared  in  October, 
1967;  it  was  circulated  as  an  underground  publication,  out 
of  San  Francisco,  and  featured  comic  strips  by,  among 
other  artists,  Robert  Crumb.  The  first  issue,  No.  0,  was  to 
provide  not  only  a  full  vocabulary  of  images  for  Fahlstrom, 
but  the  title  of  his  work:  MEATBALL  CURTAIN.  (Many 
images  were  derived  from  later  issues  of  ZAP  as  well.) 

What  happened,  basically,  was  that  Fahlstrom  was  intro- 
duced to  ZAP  comics  and  the  Heath  sign  company  simul- 
taneously; he  went  away,  contemplated  what  he  had  seen, 
and  decided  to  use  these  two  resources,  the  literary  inspira- 
tion and  the  means  of  transforming  it  into  physical  form,  to 
make  a  work  of  art.  A  week  after  Oyvind  returned  from 
Los  Angeles  to  New  York,  he  mailed  us  a  brief,  scribbled 
note  saying,  "Hal,  thanks  for  the  guided  tour!  Also  ZAP, 
most  inspiring,  might  make  Heath  piece  into  a  (or  call  it) 
MEATBALL  CURTAIN  .  .  .  P.S.  Will  send  Maurice 
project  notes  soon  (on  Heath  idea)  .  .  .  ." 


105 


A&T 


T^mm^?!w^m?mm. 


106 


Fahlstrom  sent  drawings  for  the  piece  shortly  thereafter. 
[4]  He  indicated  that  some  of  the  images  he  sketched 
should  be  fabricated  of  sheet  metal,  sprayed  on  both  sides 
with  enamel  paint,  and  others  made  of  plexiglass.  The  work 
was  conceived  as  a  complex  tableau  of  free-standing 
objects. 

It  remained  for  us  to  reach  an  agreement  with  Heath  to 
have  Fahlstrom  work  there.  He  had  decided  to  come  in 
August,  to  stay  for  at  least  six  weeks.  Our  contact  there  was 
Assistant  General  Manager  Jack  Lloyd.  We  submitted 
Oyvind's  sketches  to  him  for  consideration  by  himself  and 
the  president,  Wayne  Heath;  they  consented  to  work  with 
Fahlstrom,  and  we  confirmed  the  arrangement. 

Fahlstrom  arrived  early  in  August  to  begin  work  at  Heath. 
Despite  a  number  of  difficulties— having  to  do  with  finding 
convenient  living  quarters,  working  out  transportation  to 
and  from  the  plant,  and  communicating  effectively  with  re- 
sponsible people  once  his  work  was  underway— he  worked 
efficiently  and  accomplished  his  work  within  six  weeks 
time  with  little  direct  intervention  on  our  part.  In  discuss- 
ing the  experience  later,  he  said, 

I  worked  with  a  lot  of  people,  and  I  had  all  sorts  of  dif- 
ferent—mostly positive— relations.  In  general  there  was  a 
great  deal  of  good  will  [on  the  part  of]  the  people  I 
actually  worked  with.  But  in  the  beginning,  they  felt 
that  I  was  to  fool  around  with  some  of  their  materials  in 
some  far  away  corner  of  the  company  and  come  up  with 
some  funny  little  abstraction  or  whatever.  Gradually 
then  it  dawned  on  them  that  I  had  a  plan,  and  I  wanted 
to  be  involved  physically  as  little  as  possible;  I  wanted  it 
to  be  done  by  their  craftsmen  and  with  their  machinery 
even  though  what  they  do  and  what  they  have  is  nothing 
terribly  sophisticated  in  terms  of  technique.  But  I 
couldn't  have  done  it  myself,  even  if  I  had  specialized 
tools. 


I  felt  I  was  getting  close  to  some  of  the  people.  The 
workers  that  were  interested  in  the  whole  thing  about 
being  an  artist  and  working  this  way  do  things  on  their 
own  now. 


I  am  not  very  good  at  talking  to  people  and  getting  ac- 
quainted, but  it  was  very  interesting  to  talk  to  some  of 
the  men  in  what  little  time  I  had,  because  we  had  very 
short  breaks  and  a  rather  disciplined  life.  But  in  the  end 


We  asked  Fahlstrom  whether  anyone  approached  him  and 
inquired  about  getting  involved,  without  being  assigned  by 
his  foremen  to  work  on  the  project.  He  replied. 

No.  No  one  did  that  because  they  do  what  they  are  told. 
So  it  was  a  matter  of  my  manipulating  foremen,  and  a 
few  other  people,  and  sort  of  putting  pressure  on  them 
....  But  after  a  while  it  became  a  sort  of  very  organic 
thing,  and  ultimately  very  satisfying.  Nothing  was  really 
organized  for  [my  project] ,  and  there  was  really  no  time 
for  it,  but  gradually  they  put  in  some  time  here,  and  one 
worker  there,  and  another  one  there,  and  in  the  end  it 
was  done  .... 

The  workers  enjoyed  it.  In  a  sense  they  appreciated  my 
work  as  children.  They  didn't  seem  to  feel  conscious 
that  the  images  might  be  prurient,  or  pornographic— they 
just  enjoyed  it.  They  sometimes  had  suggestions  for 
changes— like  adding  different  colors.  They  started  work- 
ing on  a  sort  of  private  artistic  level. 

Fahlstrom's  approach  to  the  Meatball  Curtain  is  based  on 
"game  theories"  which  have  informed  his  work  for  several 
years.  In  1964,  he  wrote  a  piece  called  "Manipulating  the 
World";  the  principles  outlined  in  it  apply  directly  to  the 
work  done  at  Heath  five  years  later: 

In  my  variable  pictures  the  emphasis  on  the  'character' 
or  'type'  of  an  element  is  achieved  by  cutting  out  a  silho- 
uette in  plastic  and  sheet  iron.  The  type  then  becomes 
fixed  and  tangible,  almost  'live'  as  an  object,  yet  flat  as  a 
painting.  Equipped  with  magnets,  these  cut-outs  can  be 
juxtaposed,  superposed,  inserted,  suspended.  They  can 
slide  along  grooves,  fold  laterally  through  joints,  and 
frontally  through  hinges.  They  can  also  be  bent  and 
riveted  to  permanent  three-dimensional  forms. 

These  elements,  while  materially  fixed,  achieve  their 
character-identity  only  when  they  are  put  together;  their 


107 


A&T 


T^,  HLS-AJPf'"' 


U 


^-^ 


Z^- 


TJ^ 


■s^'"/ 


~7_ 


rr 


'^. 


108 


character  changes  with  each  new  arrangement.  The  ar- 
rangement grows  out  of  a  combination  of  the  rules  (the 
chance  factor)  and  my  intentions,  and  is  shown  in  a 
'score'  or  'scenario'  (in  the  form  of  a  drawing,  photo- 
graphs or  small  paintings).  The  isolated  elements  are  thus 
not  paintings,  but  machinery  to  make  paintings.  Picture 
—organ. 

The  finished  picture  stands  somewhere  in  the  inter- 
section of  paintings,  games  (type  Monopoly  and  war 
games)  and  puppet  theater. 

Just  as  the  cutout  materializes  the  type,  the  factor  of 
time  in  painting  becomes  material  through  the  many,  in 
principle  infinite,  phases  in  which  the  elements  will 
appear.  As  earlier,  in  my  'world'  pictures  such  as  'Ade- 
Ledic-Nander'  and  'Sitting  .  .  .'  a  form  would  be  painted 
on  ten  different  places  on  the  canvas,  now  it  may  be 
arranged  in  ten  different  ways  during  a  period  of 
time  .  .  .* 

The  American  comic-strip  has  served  as  a  vital  source  for 
Fahlstrom's  work  since  the  early  sixties.  It  is  the  nature  of 
comic-strip  art  to  portray  sequences  of  events  in  time.  The 
underlying  structure  of  Fahlstrom's  character  combinations 
is  founded  on  images  distributed  to  imply  both  discontinu- 
ousness  and  a  kind  of  alterable  sequentialness.  Forms  and 
figure-images  play  upon  one  another  arbitrarily,  "in  the 
same  way,"  he  wrote  in  1964, 

a  ball  in  a  game  by  falling  into  a  hole  will  give  the  value 
of  1000,  whereas  if  it  rolls  past  the  hole  it  will  give  0. 
There  is  nothing  in  the  ball  and  the  hole  that  necessarily 
relate  them,  nor  that  make  a  certain  relation  valuable. 

The  association  of  disparate  elements  to  each  other  thus 
makes  game  rules  and  the  work  of  art  will  be  a  game 
structure. 

This,  among  other  things,  leads  to  presupposing  an 
active,  participating  spectator  who— whether  he  is  con- 
fronted with  a  static  or  a  variable  work  of  art— will  find 
relations  which  will  make  him  able  to  'play'  the  work, 
while  the  elements  that  he  does  not  relate  and  in  general 
his  individual  disposition  make  for  the  chance,  the  un- 
certainty that,  when  clashing  with  the  'rules,'  create  the 
thrill  of  the  game.t 

It  is  not  difficult  to  see  how  Fahlstrom  was  drawn  to 
comic-strips  as  an  inspiration  for  his  own  distributions  of 
character-images,  given  his  interest  in  the  repetition  of  ele- 
ments, and  in  sequentially  ordered  narrative,  as  means  of 
building  "playable"  tableaux.  There  is,  however,  a  far  more 
profound  literary  basis  for  his  interest  in  popular  comic- 
book art.  Unlike  Roy  Lichtenstein,  whose  comic-strip 


'Art  and  Literature,  Vol.  3,  Autumn-Winter  1964,  Societe  Anonyme 
d'Editions  Litteraires  et  Artistiques,  Lausanne,  pp.  225-226. 
t/6/d,  pp.  220-225. 


paintings  generally  depict  a  single  incident,  or  episode,  and 
are  presented  as  highly  estheticized  satirical  statements- 
parodying  both  the  form  and  the  sentiment  of  Pop  imagery 
—Fahlstrom's  use  of  comic-strip  figures  is  filled  with  com- 
plex mythological  content.  Fahlstrom  sees  in  comic-strip 
art  manifestations  of  deep-seated  social  and  cultural  fears, 
urges,  myths— and  uses  this  imagery  in  his  work  for  much 
more  than  satirical  intent.  Certain  images— for  example,  the 
rocket  thrusting  upward  on  its  own  trail  of  smoke,  or  the 
panther— recur  again  and  again  in  his  work.  These  are  for 
him  potent  symbols,  embodying  political,  psychological 
and  literary  attitudes. 

To  explicate  the  sources  and  symbolic  content  of  each  com- 
ponent of  Meatball  Curtain,  or  the  work  as  a  whole,  would 
require  a  lengthy  study.  Fahlstrom  did,  however,  comment 
on  these  things  after  the  project  was  finished: 

The  title.  Meatball  Curtain,  comes  from  Volume  0  of 
ZAP.  It  has  a  cartoon  called  Meatball  by  Robert  Crumb 
[5] ,  one  of  his  best,  most  interesting  ones  which  deals 
with  a  supernatural  event.  Meatballs  fall  out  of  the  sky. 
People  wfio  are  struck  with  a  meatball,  in  this  comic 
strip,  are  transformed  to  a  level  of— what  would  you  call 
it— inner  happiness.  Revelation.  It's  sort  of  a  parable  of 


the  idea  of  everyone— well,  having  an  acid  trip  or  some 
type  of  experience  like  that ....  On  the  cover  of 
Volume  0  there's  a  great  character  connected  to  an  elec- 
tric wire  and  being  like  electrocuted  by  some  sort  of 
great  insight  or  illumination  ...  .[6] 


109 


A&T 


I've  been  looking  a  lot  at  the  underground  cartoon 
makers.  They  have  a  sort  of  exuberance  and  precision, 
and  that  extreme  expressiveness  of  their  outlines  ...  I 
would  say  sixty,  seventy  per  cent  of  the  images  in  this 
piece  are  direct  outlines  from  Robert  Crumb.  I  think  it 
should  be  said  that  this  work  is  an  homage  to  Robert 
Crumb,  to  a  great  American  artist ....  5 


r    RA1N6D   MEATBALLS  IM  0OV*(TG>Alf<  lOs  AN6ELES  FoR  AlMOsr  1^  MINUTES, 


MO  0>B  CAN    eXPLAM  tT.   MO  OIK  KNOT'S  WHO'S  BEHU<D  IT  OR  WHAT  TKB 
pURf««S  "■   AU.  WE  CM  DO  IS  K  GTUcrsFVL    POft.... 

mstuL 


yia    PKT  KlIOVtM  mC^DfeWT  TOOK  ftAC£ 

IN  k  Dine  OT0II6  >»  ociucy  cny  gkk  in 

19S».   A  IMtt-YAHOOTIB  ONO  1  MU.  «NltM 

WCOJE  havmo  a  ivQfnaiE  Htsrrr. 


»«.  YAMOOTie   GOT  Hir.' 


,..g«arS^- 


^^•;iWw 


>|jH£N   SUCOEMLY  A  voice  CAIU^  OUT/ 


MiATSAu.  cnuKto  ua  ufe.  hm  mne 

IS  MOW  A  HotisKHOLO  UWRO.  SHE  MK  WAI>£ 
MJtNS  OP  A(>f»R«NCES  ON  TV  MD  DNM 
/tto  tiA7  SEOir^E  ANieftlCAS    fAvoftrr£ 

miTMeA.' 


8 


I  wanted  my  figures  to  have  a  sort  of  quality  of  exuber- 
ance and  the  energy  of  American  life  and  the  fatality 
and  rawness  of  it  and  the  sort  of  dumbness  about  it  too 
and  the  animal-like  quality  which  is  very  well  depicted  in 
Crumb's  drawings,  as  well  as  the  aspect  of  madness,  the 
ecstatic  factor. 

When  pressed  to  explain  the  figures  in  greater  detail,  Fahl- 

strom  said. 

The  large,  dark  blue  figure  has  his  hair  stretched  out  like 
he  was  terribly  scared— and  in  his  hand  there's  a  sort  of 
stylized  light  bulb  with  a  heart  in  it,  which  is  from  a 
Crumb  figure.  It  denotes  this  moment  of  illumination  or 
insight,  the  moment  of  truth,  which  is  part  of  the  whole 
Meatball  series.  [7,  8] 


110 


Then  there  are  two  more  Robert  Crumb  cutouts  .... 
There's  one  somewhat  ambiguous  figure— the  man  with 
the  long  nose  who  seems  to  be  struggling  with  or  holding 
a  little  girl  with  a  bow  in  her  hair.  [9]  It  might  be  inter- 
preted as  sort  of  an  incestuous  situation  ....  And 
there's  the  lady  diving  down  into  a  toilet  seat,  like  some- 
one looking  for  something,  but  being  scared  by  some- 
thing, or  trying  to  hide.  The  interpretation  would 
depend  on  how  I  assemble  the  figures  when  I  set  up  the 
piece.  I  could  assemble  them  in  such  a  way  that  she 
would  appear  to  be  hiding  from  fear ....  One  of  the 
most  important  ones  is  the  four  dancing  figures,  four 
men  that  come  closer  and  closer  in  perspective.  [10,  11] 
The  furthest  one  has  a  normal,  or  in  fact  larger  than 
normal  head.  As  they  get  closer,  the  head  shrinks,  and  in 
the  very  largest,  closest  figure,  with  enormous  plexiglass 
boots,  you  see  that  the  head  has  shrunk  to  almost 
nothing.  This  goes  back  to  an  imagery  or  idea  that 
appears  in  Robert  Crumb's  comics  about  the  acid  head 
as  a  person  with  a  tiny  head— it's  like  a  pin  point  in 
many  of  his  drawings.  In  this  case  I  have  modified  the 
drawing  of  his  where  the  characters  actually  have  nor- 
mally proportioned  heads  in  order  to  add  this  dimen- 
sion .... 


ggS^  (2EB  ^^^feS 


ooo 


10 


111 


A&T 


11 


112 


Then  we  have  a  pouncing,  leaping  panther,  or  actually 
it's  a  leopard  shape,  from  a  photograph  in  my  last  show 
at  Janis.  [3,  12]  Then  there's  a  green  wave,  with  very 
light  green  foam,  sort  of  stylized  like  a  Japanese  print 
[13] ;  it's  from  a  detail  in  a  Crumb  drawing,  but  greatly 
aberrated.  The  tallest  shape,  the  yellow  one  which  is  a 
cloud  burst,  or  vertical  smoke  coming  from  a  rocket, 
that  you  see  on  top,  very  small,  is  also  based  on  a  photo- 
graph. [3,  14] 

The  division  of  colors  roughly  follows  the  simplified 
scheme  of  dividing  the  forces  in  the  world,  or  the  power 
structure,  according  to  color  as  I  did  in  all  the  pieces  in 
my  last  show.  Everything  that  has  to  do  with  the  Ameri- 
can sphere  of  influence  is  blue  and  variations  of  blue;  the 
'third  world'  would  be  green  or  brown.  You  might  have 
violet  as  a  sort  of  intermediary  color,  and  yellow,  red, 
orange  for  Socialist  countries,  China  and  so  forth. 

JL:  What  about  the  meatballs?  Are  they  scatological? 

OF:  No.  They're  just  meatballs.  A  meatball  is  very  plain 
and  down  to  earth.  It  represents  food— plain  everyday 
sort  of  food.  [15] 

The  components  of  Meatball  Curtain  are  all  made  of  either 
heavy  gauge  sheet  metal,  saw-cut  by  hand,  or  vacuum 
formed  plexiglass  (the  meatballs  and  smaller  shapes— those 
which  are  inserted  into  slots,  or  affixed  by  magnets  to  the 
large  figures— are  plastic). 


14 


12 


One  of  the  most  significant  aspects  of  Meatball  Curtain,  as 
compared  to  Fahlstrom's  earlier  work,  is  the  relatively  bold 
and  uncluttered  nature  of  the  figures.  In  this  work,  the 
silhouettes  of  the  large  forms,  apprehended  instantaneously 
when  one  sees  the  work  assembled,  before  the  eye  is  drawn 
to  investigate  detail,  carry  the  weight  of  the  esthetic  experi- 
ence. The  expressiveness  of  outline,  to  use  Fahlstrom's  term 
in  describing  Crumb's  comic  strip  style,  becomes  the  ascen- 
dantly  important  visual  element.  Fahlstrom  said. 
What  I  wanted  to  do  here  was  to  avoid  working  in  a 
great  deal  of  detail  as  I  have  usually  done  in  the  past, 
with  complicated  outlines— black  outlines  indicating 
creases,  and  elaborate  clothing  details,  etc.  I  wanted 


rather  to  simplify.  In  order  to  do  this  I  had  to  choose 
pieces  that  were  either  single  figures,  or  combinations  of 
figures  and  objects  that  were  expressive  plus  being 
understandable  immediately,  or  if  not,  at  least  ambig- 
uous in  an  interesting  way. 

It  is  tempting  to  attribute  this  change  in  approach,  in  part  if 
not  exclusively,  to  the  environment  at  Heath  in  which  Fahl- 
strom worked.  He  was  constantly  seeing  the  huge  signs 
which  lay  about  there,  and  it  is  the  nature  of  sign  images  to 
rely  for  impact  on  bold  overall  or  interior  silhouettes.  The 
image  on  the  familiar  Colonel  Sanders  bucket-in-the-sky, 
for  instance,  when  observed  at  close  range,  cannot  be  read 
as  a  face;  the  configurations  which  form  the  eyes,  the  mus- 
tache, the  lines  in  the  cheeks,  appear  to  be  just  oddly 
shaped  obtrusions  of  brown  plastic  against  a  curved  field  of 
metal.  Whether  or  not  this  visual  ambience  alone  stimulated 
Fahlstrom  to  increase  the  scale  and  eliminate  busy  detail  in 
his  work,  the  fact  that  he  did  these  things  is  of  great  impor- 
tance in  terms  of  his  artistic  development;  Meatball  Curtain 
Is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  most  successful  tableaux  he  has 
made,  in  great  part  owing  to  its  large  size  and  its  economy 
of  interior  visual  elements. 

Jane  Livingston 


113 


A&T 


13 


4b0 


# 


15 


Dan  Flavin 

Born  Jamaica,  New  York,  1933 
Resident  Garrison,  New  York 


114 


MT  first  spoke  to  Dan  Flavin  about  A  &  T  in  January, 
1969,  In  New  York.  At  that  time,  General  Electric  had 
given  us  a  verbal  commitment  to  enter  A  &  T  as  a  Patron 
Sponsor,  and  to  make  available  to  an  artist  their  Nela  Park 
Advanced  Lighting  Division,  near  Cleveland,  Ohio.  MT  indi- 
cated to  the  artist  that  if  he  was  interested  in  touring  Nela 
Park  and  perhaps  working  there,  we  would  arrange  it;  we 
felt  confident  that  GE  would  sign  a  contract  with  us,  and 
were  enthusiastic  about  having  Flavin  work  with  them. 
Flavin  seemed  open  to  MT's  suggestion,  and  finally,  in  late 
July,  the  artist  visited  Nela  Park  for  two  days.  He  wrote  to 
us  after  this. 

It  should  be  understood  that  my  remarks  here  are  of 
initial  conjectures  from  just  two  days  of  beginning  with 
various  consultants  of  General  Electric.  Firstly,  as  re- 
ported by  telephone,  a  backup  proposal  from  previous 
experience  and  with  in-production  equipment  would  be 
a  variably  sized  system  of  ultra-violet  light  (absolutely 
safely  filtered  tubes,  etc.)  with  dimming  cycle  and  strob- 
oscopic-like  moderation  prompted  by  humanly  governed 
capacitors,  if  the  possible  situational  usage  warrants. 
Secondly,  and  hopefully,  preferably,  the  engineers  and  I 
will  determine  how  to  excite  dispersed  phosphors  or 
other  matter  in  the  atmosphere  in  a  safe  and  somewhat 
consistently  visible  manner.  (If  possible,  I  would  prefer 
not  to  have  to  employ  a  more  spatially  limited  carrier 
such  as  water.)  But  what  we  research  may  not  all  clarify 
the  vague  suggestion  just  stated.  We  should  know  much 
more  in  October .... 

Flavin  returned  to  Nela  Park  for  what  we  supposed  to  be  a 
week,  and  turned  out  to  be  two  days,  in  August.  He  spent 
that  time  in  consultation  with  lighting  engineer  Terry 
McGowan;  they  discussed  numerous  possibilities  for 
projects  employing  advanced  kinds  of  lamps  which  the 
artist  had  not  used  previously  in  his  work.  According  to 
McGowan,  Flavin  was,  however,  primarily  interested  in 
fluorescent  light,  which  he  has  used,  almost  exclusively,  in 
his  past  works,  and  to  the  present  time.  McGowan  did  make 
a  mock-up  for  Flavin  of  a  circuit  using  one  flashing  ultra- 
violet lamp.  McGowan  said  that  G.E.  encouraged  Flavin  to 
use  ultraviolet,  and  we  were  under  the  impression  that 
Flavin  intended  to  execute  a  U-V  piece  for  the  Expo  show. 
However,  in  talking  later  with  McGowan,  he  said  to  us. 


"Dan  did  not  indicate  in  any  way  to  us  what  his  piece 
would  be  either  for  Expo  or  the  L.A.  (A  &  T)  show." 

Most  of  the  assistance  G.E.  gave  to  the  artist— and  it  was 
considerable— was  in  the  way  of  providing  equipment  for 
works  in  the  artist's  retrospective  exhibition  which  opened 
in  the  Fall  of  1969  at  the  National  Gallery  of  Canada  in 
Ottawa,  and  for  other  works  independent  of  that  show. 
McGowan  additionally  agreed  to  present  a  lecture  on  the 
history  of  fluorescent  light  at  Ottawa  in  connection  with 
the  exhibition  there. 

In  October,  1969,  Flavin  met  in  New  York  with  MT,  Jane 
Livingston  and  the  Expo  Design  Team  at  their  head- 
quarters, to  discuss  a  possible  location  in  the  New  Arts 
Pavilion  for  his  work.  (We  assumed  there  would  be  a  work, 
and  in  fact  Flavin  told  us  it  would  incorporate  forty-inch 
U-V  tubes,  emitting  bluish  light,  which  would  be  program- 
med to  dim  out  and  flash  at  intervals.  As  indicated  above, 
this  plan  was  apparently  not  known  to  the  G.E.  people.) 
The  space  allotted  in  the  Pavilion  area  for  Flavin's  work 
designed  as  a  room  into  which  one  looked,  but  did  not 
enter,  was  commensurate  in  size  to  that  given  for  other 
works  in  the  exhibition,  and  the  artist  indicated  that  he  was 
satisfied  with  it.  However,  on  October  24,  we  received  in 
Los  Angeles  the  following  cable  from  Flavin:  SINCE 
MYSELF  LAST  IN  EXHIBITION  CONSIDERATION  BE- 
COMING POTENTIAL  VILLAIN  OF  OSAKA  INSTAL- 
LATION ROLE  UTTERLY  UNACCEPTABLE  WANT  TO 
DECLINE  INVITATION  NOW  BEFORE  IT  BECOMES 
TOO  LATE. 

Although  we  were  at  a  loss  to  understand  the  rationale  for 
his  telegram,  we  accepted  this  declination  perforce,  but 
continued  to  regard  the  Flavin/G.E.  collaboration  as  viable, 
and  as  potentially  issuing  in  a  work  for  the  Museum  exhibi- 
tion. Flavin  indicated  for  several  weeks  that  he  planned  to 
return  to  Nela  Park,  and  G.E.  was  anxious  to  have  him  do 
so.  By  January  of  1970,  however,  when  Flavin  had  still  not 
made  any  definite  commitment  to  spend  time  at  G.E.,  the 
collaboration  was  terminated. 

We  have  continued  to  the  present  time  to  attempt  to  effect 
an  artistic  collaboration  at  G.E.  (see  sections  on  Ron 
Cooper  and  Robert  Morris)  but  have  not  succeeded. 


Sam  Francis 

Born  San  Mateo,  California,  1923 
Resident  Santa  Monica,  California 


A&T 


Over  a  nine  month  period,  from  April  through  December, 
1970,  we  made  extensive  efforts,  none  successful,  to  in- 
clude Sam  Francis  in  A  &  T.  He  suggested  diverse  ideas  for 
projects,  most  of  which  necessitated  enormous  technical 
and  financial  support.  One  of  Francis'  initial  proposals  was 
to  execute  an  elaborate  programmed  strobe  light  environ- 
ment—possibly taking  shape  as  a  light  show  in  the  sky.  This 
grandiose  project  eventually  developed  into  an  idea  requir- 
ing a  salvo  of  rockets  to  be  fired  over  the  Southern  Cali- 
fornia basin.  We  brought  him  together  with  Dr.  Richard 
Feynman,  who  rather  liked  the  scheme.  Feynman  made 
several  calls  to  persons  he  knew  at  NASA  and  determined 
that  the  cost  of  Francis'  plan  would  be  about  $1,000,000. 

In  addition  to  the  light  performance  Francis  was  to  a  lesser 
degree  interested  in  executing  sculpture  in  cement  or  cer- 
amics. In  April  we  toured  American  Cement's  Technical 
Research  Center  in  Riverside  and  discussed  Francis'  sculp- 
ture with  Dr.  Kenneth  Daugherty.  Scientists  at  the  Center 
had  recently  developed  a  method  of  injecting  color  into 
cement  or  concrete  mixtures,  a  process  which  we  felt  would 
be  of  interest  to  the  artist.  Francis  was  willing  to  consider 
this  possibility  but  first  wanted  to  further  pursue  those  cor- 
porations which  might  execute  an  indoor  strobe  environ- 
ment before  committing  himself  to  the  cement  company. 

Accordingly,  in  May,  Gail  Scott  accompanied  Francis  (and, 
as  it  happened,  James  Rosenquist)  to  Ampex  Corporation 


in  Redwood  City,  where  they  met  with  several  staff  mem- 
bers in  the  Advanced  Technical  Section.  The  optics  depart- 
ment dealt  with  theoretical  research  which  was  of  no  im- 
mediate use  to  Francis,  and  their  electronic  products  did 
not  include  the  kind  of  hardware  he  needed. 

In  September,  Francis  visited  RCA  in  Van  IMuys,  and  the 
outcome  was  much  the  same  as  at  Ampex.  They  could  have 
programmed  the  work,  but  not  provide  any  light  equip- 
ment. During  this  period,  we  had  seriously  considered 
sending  Francis  to  General  Electric,  since  the  Dan  Flavin 
project  at  G.E.'s  Nela  Park  Laboratories  near  Cleveland,  had 
been  discontinued,  but  for  Francis  an  extended  period  of 
residence  in  Ohio  was  not  feasible. 

In  September,  1969,  we  took  Francis  to  American  Stand- 
ard, a  ceramics  company  which  only  recently  had  become 
involved  in  A  &  T.  Again,  as  at  American  Cement,  the  artist 
and  the  plant  manager.  Jack  Day,  were  agreed  that  the  fac- 
tory had  the  capacity  to  produce  sculpture  for  the  artist: 
the  kilns  were  large  enough;  they  could  produce  a  rich  color 
glaze;  and,  most  importantly.  Day  indicated  that  the  struc- 
tural, tensile  and  balance  problems  posed  by  Francis'  sculp- 
tural concepts  would  be  a  stimulating  challenge  to  his 
engineers.  Again,  Francis  demurred  on  the  basis  of  his  pre- 
ferred scheme;  he  still  was  not  excited  about  the  notion  of 
executing  sculpture  when  the  option  of  a  strobe  environ- 
ment remained  a  remote  possibility.  However  we  were  not 
able  to  find  a  company  to  accommodate  his  needs. 


Hans  Haacke 

Born  Cologne,  1936 
Resident,  New  York  City 


116 


In  February,  1969  we  contacted  Hans  Haacke,  asking 
him  to  submit  a  project  proposal  for  A  &  T.  In  early 
March  he  submitted  descriptions  for  six  projects  involv- 
ing aerodynamics,  condensation  cycles,  transduction  and 
information  retrieval. 

We  sent  all  six  proposals  to  Dr.  Charles  Spitzer,  our 
contact  at  Ampex  Corporation,  for  his  consideration.  No 
collaboration  with  Ampex  had  emerged  from  several 
previous  attempts,  and  we  were  anxious  to  effect  a 
match.  Dr.  Spitzer  indicated  his  willingness  to  discuss 
one  of  the  proposed  works,  called  Environment  Trans- 
plant [1]  at  length  with  the  artist,  indicating  at  the 
outset  that  the  major  obstacle  would  be  the  use  of  real 
time.  Early  in  April  Haacke  flew  to  Los  Angeles  and  was 
accompanied  to  Ampex,  in  Redwood  City,  by  Hal 
Glicksman.  During  two  days  of  discussion  Spitzer  and 
Haacke  thrashed  out  the  major  problems:  securing  an 
FCC  permit  for  direct,  real  time  transmission,  a  difficult 
bureaucratic  procedure  to  undertake;  hiring  a  truck  and 
driver  for  the  four  month  duration  of  the  exhibition; 
and  procuring  certain  television  projection  equipment 
which  Ampex  did  not  manufacture.  Ampex  did  not 
want  to  assume  responsibility  for  solving  any  of  these 
problems. 


Even  if  Haacke  decided  to  use  a  time  delay  feedback 
system— taping  the  information  instead  of  employing 
direct  transmission— there  was  still  the  problem  of 
obtaining  the  television  projection  equipment.  Our 
efforts  to  get  a  donation  of  this  equipment  from  other 
contracted  A  &  T  companies  like  G.E.  were 
unsuccessful. 

We  wrote  Haacke  explaining  the  impasse  we  had 
reached;  undaunted,  he  replied  by  telephone  with  still 
another  project  proposal  called  Information  Retrieval. 
He  wanted  to  program  a  computer  to  ask  census-type 
questions  about  spectators  at  the  exhibition;  this  infor- 
mation would  be  gathered  and  stored  during  the  time  of 
the  exhibition,  and  retrieved  at  will.  The  resulting 
compilation  of  data  would  constitute  a  sociological 
profile  of  the  exhibition  visitors.  Although  we  were 
unable  to  execute  this  proposal— since  all  participating 
computer  corporations  were  already  involved  with  other 
artists— Haacke  was  able  to  execute  a  variant  of  this 
piece  for  the  Software  exhibition  at  New  York's  Jewish 
Museum  held  in  September,  1970. 


117  A&T 


ENVIR0NM3NT  TRANSPLANT 


A  large  white  room  in  the  shape  of  a  vertical  cylinder. 
In  the  center  equipment  for  visual  projection  mounted  <-n 
a  slowly  moving  turntable  so  that  projections  would  sweep  over 
the  curved  walls  like  the  beams  of  °  light  house.  Loudspeakers 
are  situated  behind  the  walls  all  around  the  room  so  that  the 
soxind  cnn  actu-Jly  follow  the  sweeping  of  the  projected  images 
(a  less  desirable  though  cheH.per  version  would  be  to  mount  a 
single  loudspeaker  on  the  turntable). 

Corresponding  to  this  set-up  in  the  museum  sound  sjid  image 
recording  devices  are  mounted  on  a  truck.  Like  the  projection 
equipment  the  recording  equipment  is  fixed  onto  a  slowly 
spinning  turntable.  It  continuously  scs'Jis   the  "horizon"'. 
During  exhibition  hours  the  truck  drives  through  the  entire 
Los  i^jngeles  Metropolitan  Area  constantly  recording  the  sights 
and  sounds  of  the  streets  it  goes  through. 

The  recorded  material  is  iiaiediately  (without  any  time  lag) 
transmitted  into  the  museum  and  projected  onto  the  walls 
or  emitted  through  the  loudspeakers  of  the  room.  Visitors 
will  sometimes  stand  between  projector  end   "screen".  Conse- 
quently their  shadows  will  appear  on  the  wall  -^md  they  themt* 
selves  become  the  "screen",  "•'.'hatever  noises  they  msJce  vrill 
also  mingle  with  the  streetnoises  piped  from  the  truck  into 
the  room. 


vO^V 


^fMt^* 


^  Scm,fji> 


1< 


>> 


<rA+igi^, 


if 


ML 


Newton  Harrison 

Born  New  York  City,  1932 
Resident  La  Jolla,  California 


118 


Newton  Harrison  has  taught  since  1965  in  the  art  depart- 
ment at  the  University  of  California,  San  Diego.  In  the 
fall  of  1967  he  described  to  his  painting  class  a  notion  he 
had  been  pursuing  of  rendering  colored  light  as  form,  in 
a  way  not  possible  with  ordinary  neon  tubing  or  incan- 
descent lights.  One  member  of  his  class,  Keith  Carter,  a 
former  physics  student,  responded  by  showing  Harrison 
a  glow  discharge  display  in  a  bell  jar  in  one  of  the 
physics  laboratories.  A  glow  discharge  is  the  ionization 
or  breakdown  of  gas  (helium,  neon,  argon,  etc.)  into  a 
diffuse  arc  by  means  of  a  plasma  or  fluid  which  conducts 
electricity.  A  simple  form  of  a  glow  discharge  is  neon 
light,  but  because  the  ionization  activity  takes  place 
within  the  constricted,  narrow  area  of  a  tube,  the  various 
types  of  phenomena  which  occur  during  ionization  are 
not  visible.  Glow  discharge  is  a  commonly  known 
physical  phenomenon,  used  by  scientists  for  years  in 
various  kinds  of  research  and  experimentation,  for 
example  as  a  method  of  converting  thermal  energy  into 
electricity. 

Harrison  was  intrigued  by  the  possibilities  of  artistic 
expression  inherent  in  this  phenomenon.  The  colors  that 
can  be  made  to  appear  range  from  subdued  pinks  to 
bright  orange  to  blues  and  greens.  Under  varying  con- 
ditions one  can  observe  that  the  light  takes  on  numerous 
distinct  shapes:  arcs,  lightning  streaks,  platelets,  bubbles, 
or  shafts  of  color.  The  colors  and  forms  depend  on  three 
variables:  amount  of  vacuum  in  the  chamber;  type  and 
amount  of  gas  used  (primarily  helium,  neon,  argon, 
carbon  dioxide  and  nitrogen);  amount  and  type  of 
electricity  (either  AC  or  DC).  Harrison  set  up  a  display 
in  his  studio  with  a  primitive  piece  of  equipment  and 
experimented  with  it  for  some  time,  attempting  to 
determine  the  capability  of  a  glow  discharge  as  a  work- 
able art  medium. 

At  about  this  time  we  learned  of  Harrison's  interest  in 
A  &  T  from  his  colleague  David  Antin  at  UCSD,  and  in 
April,  1969,  Hal  Glicksman  visited  his  studio  and  saw 
the  experimental  set-up  of  a  glow  discharge  in  the  three 
foot  bell  jar.  With  Antin's  encouragement,  Harrison 
submitted  to  us  a  project  proposal  titled  "Light  as  color 
in  space,"  which  states  in  part. 

Our  normal  associations  with  light  are  that  it  defines 
or  illuminates  a  pre-existing  form  by  its  presence  or 
absence.  This  is  true  of  conventional  sculpture.  It  is 
also  true  of  every  light  work  I  have  ever  seen.  Even 
searchlight  sculpture  in  defining  giant  space  volumes 
must  be  considered  as  drawing  on  a  grand  scale.  In 
this  work  that  I  propose  light  as  color  is  the  form.  It 
defines  itself.  It  needs  no  object.  A  plasma  is  light 
unadulterated. 

After  studying  the  proposal  and  checking  through  our 
roster  of  contracted  corporations,  we  decided  to  send  a 
copy  of  Newton's  proposal  to  Dr.  Robert  Meghreblian, 


Deputy  Assistant  Director  of  Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory. 
(We  had  toured  JPL  with  James  Byars,  Richard  Serra, 
Mark  di  Suvero  and  Michael  Asher  but  had  been  unsuc- 
cessful in  placing  any  of  them  at  this  extraordinary 
research  facility.)  In  July,  we  visited  JPL  to  discuss 
further  the  feasibility  of  a  collaboration  between  the 
company  and  Harrison.  The  artist  met  first  with  Dr. 
Meghreblian,  who  was  impressed  by  the  amount  of 
research  Newton  had  already  accomplished  and  by  his 
ability  to  converse  intelligently  about  the  scientific 
aspects  of  the  problems  involved.  Meghreblian  assigned 
Donald  Bartz,  Manager  of  Propulsion  Research  and 
Advanced  Concepts  Section,  to  work  with  Harrison. 
That  same  afternoon  Harrison  had  a  lengthy  discussion 
with  Bartz,  Ray  Goldstein  and  several  other  plasma 
experts.  This  meeting  evolved  into  a  productive  problem 
solving  situation,  establishing  a  rapport  between  Newton 
and  the  JPL  staff  which  existed  throughout  the  collabor- 
ation. At  that  preliminary  session  they  talked  of  revising 
the  shape  of  the  gas  container  from  Newton's  original 
concept  of  a  six  by  nine  foot  cube  to  a  cylindrical  shape, 
thereby  eliminating  the  necessity  for  several  glued  seams 
and  strengthening  the  vacuum  chamber.  The  size  of  the 
cylinder  remained  flexible,  to  be  determined  at  a  later 
date  along  with  other  esthetic  and  technical  considera- 
tions. In  addition  they  discussed  the  problem  of  re- 
moving or  disguising  the  electrical  wire  running  from  top 
to  bottom  of  the  chamber.  Various  tentative  solutions 
emerged  but  nothing  definite  was  decided.  Bartz  sugges- 
ted that  a  JPL  design  team  be  assigned  to  investigate 
these  structural  and  technical  problems  and  to  project  a 
cost  estimate. 

In  the  next  few  weeks  Newton  met  with  Bartz  and  the 
engineering  team  on  several  occasions  from  which 
eventually  emerged  the  final  design  for  the  gas  contain- 
ers: they  decided  to  make  five  identical  columns,  each  of 
one  inch  thick  plexiglass,  eighteen  inches  in  diameter 
and  twelve  feet  high,  or  from  floor  to  ceiling.  This 
solution  eiliminated  the  need  for  visible  exterior  wiring 
since  the  electrodes  would  be  housed  in  end-plates  at  top 
and  bottom  and  all  support  mechanisms  would  reside  in 
floor  and  ceiling.  The  cost  estimates  for  building  the  five 
units  were  so  high  that  JPL,  because  of  its  connection 
with  NASA  as  a  non-profit  space  research  organization, 
decided  it  would  not  completely  finance  their  construc- 
tion. JPL  agreed  to  supply  technician  time  to  run  all 
necessary  tests  on  the  tubes,  to  furnish  additional 
engineering  designs  [1] ,  and  to  make  available  on  a  loan 
basis  any  miscellaneous  equipment  they  could  spare,  but 
they  would  not  fabricate  the  plexiglass  units  or  cover  the 
cost  of  the  electrical  fixtures. 

The  project  at  this  point  became  more  than  a  one-to-one 

collaboration,  and  in  accordance  with  this  special  situa- 
tion, Newton  agreed  to  apply  some  grant  money  he  had 
acquired  from  UCSD  to  design  and  construct  the  power 


119 


A&T 


supplies  {transformers  and  variacs)  and  gas  injection 
system.  For  this  part  of  the  project  he  pressed  into 
service  Keith  Carter  who,  from  his  previous  experience 
with  the  glow  discharge,  had  the  knowledge  to  carry  it 
through,  using  the  metal  and  electrical  shop  facilities  at 
UCSD.  Fabrication  of  five  plexiglass  tubes  was  done  by  a 
local  plastics  firm  and  paid  for  by  the  Museum's  A&T 
"materials"  budget. 


By  August  work  had  begun  on  all  three  of  these  fronts, 
and  by  this  time  we  were  considering  Harrison's  sculp- 
tures as  likely  for  the  Expo  show.  For  a  time,  the  design 
of  the  installation  became  a  collaborative  effort  involv- 
ing all  of  us.  In  several  meetings  with  Newton  we  discus- 
sed various  possibilities,  including  that  of  a  total  environ- 
ment using  liquid  crystals  in  some  kind  of  configuration 
with  the  tubes.  An  idea  Newton  had  had  in  mind  for  the 
Sao  Paulo  Bienale  was  to  make  a  liquid  crystal  pathway 
which  would  change  colors  under  heat  and  pressure  from 
the  passing  crowds.  He  now  proposed  using  liquid 
crystals  in  conjunction  with  the  tubes,  perhaps  as  a  path 
leading  to  the  cluster  of  five  light  columns.  We  en- 
couraged him  to  extend  this  notion  further,  suggesting 
an  arrangement  of  liquid  crystals  in  a  stepped  formation, 
ending  at  the  columns.  An  alternative  solution  was  to 


120 


design  a  corridor  with  the  wall  surfaces  covered  by  the 
crystals  and  heat  lamps  spaced  along  the  floor  with  an 
electric-eye  device  triggered  by  the  passing  crowds  who, 
by  their  movement,  would  control  the  color  modula- 
tions in  the  liquid  crystals. 

However  after  considering  all  of  these  notions,  Harrison 
decided  that  the  tubes  would  have  greater  impact  if  they 
were  displayed  by  themselves,  dispersed  in  a  carefully 
worked  out  configuration  in  a  room  devoid  of  ambient 
light.  The  spectators  would  pass  through  the  grouping  of 
columns,  actually  coming  into  contact  with  them  and 
possibly  altering  the  glow  discharge  by  interfering  with 
the  electrical  field. 

In  October,  after  delays  in  fabrication,  testing  began  on 
the  tubes  at  JPL.  Several  technicians,  primarily  Ray 
Goldstein  [2] ,  first  ran  tests  designed  to  examine  various 
kinds  of  stress  on  the  structural  strength  of  the  tubes, 
and  the  results  showed  a  safety  factor  of  7.0  above  the 
expected  loads.  (Safety  factors  of  4.0  and  5.0  are  typical 
in  engineering  design.)  Harrison  and  Carter  began  experi- 
menting with  the  phenomenon  itself,  manipulating  its 
three  elements— the  gases,  electricity  (in  the  form  of  a 


heavy  duty  neon  sign  transformer)  and  a  vacuum  pump. 
One  of  the  first  things  they  discovered  was  that  the 
range  of  visible  effects  in  a  twelve  foot  column  was,  as 
could  be  expected,  much  greater  than  in  a  three  foot  bell 
jar.  Harrison  gradually  became  able  to  control  a  wide 
range  of  color-shapes  and  configurations  which  became 
his  formal  vocabulary. 

His  initial  conception  had  included  certain  key  prerequi- 
sites which  he  later  outlined  in  an  interview: 

I  wanted  this  piece  to  have  a  participatory  quality.  I 
found  that  by  touching  the  tube,  a  human  being 
could  alter  what  was  going  on  in  there  because  inside 
those  chambers  are  electro-magnetic  fields  and  a 
human  being  is  a  resistor,  I  guess,  and  so  his  field 
interferes  with  what  goes  on  there  or  affects  it.  So 
now  I  had  at  least  one  element  that  I  could  call 
participatory  about  it. 

The  next  thing  I  wanted  was  a  certain  kind  of  config- 
uration. If  you  have  just  a  beautiful  glowing  tube,  the 
metaphorical  possibilities  are  limited,  but  the  minute 
lightning  arcs  start  occuring,  you  have  a  frankly 
frightening  object. 


121 


A&T 


I  wanted  them  to  be  simultaneously  beautiful  and 
scary  and  eerie  and  contemplative  .... 

After  the  tubes  had  been  running  constantly  for  about 
fifty  hours,  the  plastic  surfaces  began  to  cloud  over, 
obscuring  the  configurations  and  movement  of  light. 
Because  the  glow  discharge  is  used  only  intermittently 
for  scientific  purposes,  such  chambers  in  the  past  rarely 
developed  this  defect,  and  the  technicians  were  not 
prepared  for  this  contingency.  A  spectralanalysis  of  the 
clouding  indicated  that  the  ion  bombardment  was 
cracking  the  surface  of  the  plexiglass.  Keith  Carter 
discovered,  quite  by  accident,  a  possible  solution. 
Applying  a  silicone  grease  to  the  interior  surface  of  the 
cylinder  would,  he  found,  protect  against  ion  bombard- 
ment and  the  consequent  obscuring  effect. 

In  December  the  plexiglass  columns  and  all  miscellan- 
eous equipment  were  shipped  to  Osaka.  Before  the  tubes 
were  en  unpacked,  the  Japanese  Safety  Commission  for 
the  World's  Fair  refused  to  allow  them  to  be  installed, 
fearing  that  the  vacuum  chamber  and  gas  injection  might 
implode  or  that  crowds  touching  the  tubes  might  receive 
an  electrical  shock.  IVIT  made  emergency  calls  to  us  at 


the  iVluseum,  and  we  in  turn  contacted  Bartz  and  Megh- 
reblian  requesting  a  letter  explaining  the  extensive  safety 
precautions  taken  by  the  JPL  staff.  Bartz  wrote  a  state- 
ment describing  the  electrical  design  of  the  tubes, 
concluding  with  the  statement  that  "touching  the 
surface  of  these  tubes  is  no  more  dangerous  than  touch- 
ing the  surface  of  an  ordinary  fluorescent  lamp."  The 
Japanese  authorities  were  persuaded  to  allow  the  instal- 
lation to  proceed. 

At  this  point  another  problem  arose.  On  one  of  the 
tubes,  which  had  undergone  the  most  experimentation 
and  testing  at  JPL,  a  solution  had  been  applied  which 
cleaned  the  interior  surface,  but  it  also  caused  small 
fissures  and  cracks  in  the  plexiglass  which  did  not  appear 
until  after  transit  to  Japan,  where  Harrison  discovered 
them.  [3,  4]  With  the  opening  deadline  rapidly  ap- 
proaching, this  tube  was  sent  to  a  local  Japnaese  plastics 
firm  in  a  last  minute  attempt  to  polish  out  these  imper- 
fections. 

Before  coming  to  Japan,  Newton  had  spent  several 
weeks  working  out  a  placement  scheme  for  the  tubes. 
His  intention  was  to  avoid  a  geometric  configuration  and 


122 


to  arrive  at  random  appearing  arrangement.  With  the 
programming  assistance  of  Jeff  Raskin  at  the  UCSD 
computer  center,  he  had  attempted  to  achieve  a  random 
disposition  but  abandoned  this  method  because,  in  his 
own  words,  "every  time  I  obeyed  the  computer  and 
placed  tubes  randomly  the  results  looked  calculated." 
He  then  used  full-scale  cardboard  models  and  experi- 
mented with  them  in  the  UCSD  art  gallery,  marking  off 
the  size  and  shape  of  his  area  in  the  Pavilion.  He  went  on 
to  say. 

I  ended  up  choosing  an  array  that  had  two  columns 
very  far  apart.  By  having  two  as  far  apart  as  possible, 
I  was  able  to  make  one  column  brighter  and  one 
column  slightly  dimmer,  and  so  when  you  stood  at 
one  end,  the  space  expanded  or  compressed,  depend- 
ing upon  which  end  you  were  looking  at,  by  virtue  of 
light  constancy.  I  felt  it  was  very  important  that  the 
columns,  exclusive  of  the  light,  energize  the  space.  I 
also  put  two  columns  very  close  to  one  another  so 
that  a  sense  of  surround  could  happen,  with  one 
uncomfortably  close  to  the  wall  so  that  a  little 
pressure  to  the  wall  would  tie  the  whole  array  to  the 
room.  [5] 

Once  the  tubes  and  vacuum  pumps  were  in  place,  the 
ceiling  to  support  the  vacuum  pumps  completed,  and  the 
scaffolding  removed,  Harrison  was  finally  ready  to 
determine  the  composition  of  each  chamber.  Months  of 
research,  design  and  testing  were  merely  preparatory 
steps  to  the  process  of  actually  creating  the  piece. 
Throughout  the  preceding  eighteen  months,  both  with 
the  bell  jar  display  in  his  studio  and  with  the  actual 
tubes  at  JPL,  Newton  had  familiarized  himself  with 
virtually  every  relationship  of  color,  shape,  and  move- 
ment of  which  the  system  was  capable.  He  had  purpose- 
ly avoided  deciding  beforehand  which  gases  would  go  in 


each  tube,  so  that  he  could  manipulate  the  numerous 
possibilities  in  the  space  itself.  Newton  later  described 
how  these  final  choices  came  about: 
...  in  the  first  tube  I  put  an  arc  that  was  a  mixture  of 
helium  and  argon.  The  helium  helped  the  arc  path; 
the  argon  guaranteed  that  it  would  be  a  shocking 


pink-violet  arc.  We  set  it  up  so  that  the  gas  was 
injected  in  such  a  way  that  it  started  out  as  lightning, 
stayed  lightning  for  about  two  minutes;  became  an 
arc;  stayed  the  arc  for  about  three  minutes;  became  a 
glow-a  total  glow  in  the  tube; ...  the  glow  started  to 
break  down  into  platelets  and  then  I  shot  more  gas  in 
so  it  would  be  an  arc  again.  This  was  a  ten  minute 
cycle.  I  found  out  strange  things.  I  had  originally 


wanted  to  make  it  just  lightning  for  five  minutes.  But 
lightning  for  five  minutes  was  a  bore.  Lightning  for 
four  minutes  was  a  bore.  Lightning  for  a  minute  and  a 
half  to  two  minutes  was  exciting  and  lightning  flip- 
ping into  an  arc  every  six  minutes  say,  had  a  right 
sense  to  me.  That  flip  was  very  important,  and  if  I 
lengthened  the  time  between  the  flips,  it  became  less 
frightening.  One  of  the  things  that  is  frightening  is 
sudden  and  unexpected  change,  so  I  used  sudden 
change  as  a  time  frame  system. 

We  took  the  far  tube  and  put  nitrogen  in  it,  and 
started  to  run  it  from  arc,  to  mass,  to  space.  Through 
the  color  changes  that  are  involved  in  that,  I  started 
to  play  with  timing.  I  found  out  that  if  two  tubes 
arced  at  once,  they  gave  each  other  away.  But  if  they 
would  arc  at  different  times,  we  quadrupled  the 
sudden  change  that  was  going  on  as  well  as  strength- 
ened the  dialogue.  So  I  programmed  the  nitrogen  at 
the  far  end  to  go  into  an  arc  state  only  when  the  first 
piece  was  in  lightning  form  or  in  mass  form.  If  you 


123 


A&T 


124 


make  a  painting  out  of  day-glow  colors  exclusively, 
they  cancel  each  other  out.  They  have  an  acidity  in 
common  that  makes  you  tire  of  them  quickly.  I 
found  out  that  all  the  gas  colors  also  have  a  certain 
acidity,  a  low-key  brilliance  in  common.  The  diffi- 
culty was  to  cancel  that  sense  of  commonality  in  the 
gas.  Keith,  with  great  delicacy,  resolved  the  critical 
timing  problem.  I  chose  in  one  tube  to  use  neon 


which  is  orange-red  and  in  another  helium  which  is 
green  and  white.  Then  I  had  one  tube  left  and  after 
playing  with  it,  introduced  CO2  to  it.  It  was  bluish- 
white,  and  as  a  color  it  talked  a  bit  to  the  lightning, 
and  argued  a  bit  with  the  rest  of  them,  but  it  made 
strange  platelets  that  were  very  narrow  and  then 
turned  into  bubbles.  I  found  out  that  when  you 
touched  those  bubbles,  they  were  responsive  to  you 
too;  you  could  actually  raise  or  lower  a  bubble  of 
light 

I  was  involved  in  creating  a  friction.  The  cylinders 
look  very  organized;  they  are  very  contained;  they  are 
very  sedate.  I  wanted  to  create  a  friction  between  the 
neatness  and  the  elegance  of  the  cylinders  and  the 
sensation  of  the  sudden  release  of  more  power  than 
you  had  ever  seen  before  in  one  place.  When  that 
floppy  arc  happens,  you  cope  with  that.  The  eye  tells 
you  everything  is  contained  and  safe;  your  experience 
says  I  doubt  it.  It's  the  friction  between  those  two 


responses  that  I  was  interested  in,  rather  than  either 
response.  The  whole  piece  has  that  kind  of  an  atti- 
tude in  it. 

When  Newton  had  finished  programming  the  cycle,  the 
group  of  sculptures  suddenly  came  together  as  an  es- 
thetic entity.  It  was  an  exciting  moment.  The  element  of 
timing  is  the  critical  factor,  as  Harrison  said: 

The  cycles  run  from  ten  minutes  to  forty-five  min- 
utes, and  to  really  see  how  the  thing  works,  you  have 
to  spend  about  ten  hours  with  it,  but  nonetheless, 
you  could  know  it  in  a  non-rational  way,  feel  it,  in 
about  two  or  three  minutes,  and  that  was  a  very 
tough  problem  which  conditioned  how  fast  I  made 
the  spaces  grow.  For  instance,  if  the  spaces  grow  too 
fast,  then  they  look  tricky,  but  if  they  grow  slowly, 
it's  too  slow  to  see  but  it's  suddenly  there  anyway.  I 
like  the  idea  of  playing  with  slow  and  fast  changes 
and  transformations.  There  is  a  much  slower  than 
heartbeat  change,  and  then  there  are  abrupt  changes; 
the  work  becomes  a  study  of  small  differences  and 
changes. 

He  also  described  some  of  the  specific  intentions  he  had. 
An  interesting  example  was  a  color  configuration,  in  one 
of  the  tubes— a  rose-white  hue— which  hovers  on  the  top 
and  bottom  with  an  empty  space  in  the  middle.  Newton 
explained  this  as, 

.  .  .  just  what  Rothko  was  dreaming  about.  I  knew 
what  he  was  doing  ....  He  was  trying  to  make  paint 
do  what  paint  could  never  do,  although  he  got  his 
work  to  cast  a  light.  The  far  tube  to  the  right  I  really 
made  a  sort  of  private  homage  to  Rothko.  I  made  a 
very  specific  reference  to  him.  If  you  looked  at  the 
shape  on  the  top,  it  was  a  Rothko  type  shape,  a 
Rothko  color  shape,  a  Rothko  intensity  shape  and  it 
was  surrounded  by  a  dark  field.  This  was  my  way  of 
acknowledging  a  man  whom  I  thought  was  involved 
in  a  kind  of  magnificent  and  very  lonely  vision. 

Newton  also  described  a  further  fantasy  about  the  work: 
.  .  .  The  variables  in  it  were  sufficiently  simple  so  that 
we  could  use  one  of  the  brainwave  converters  and 
once  a  person  had  played  it  with  a  control  panel,  he 
could  undergo  further  transformation  and  work  the 
thing  by  alpha  waves  alone.  At  that  point,  you  could 
call  in  storms  by  your  own  mental  activity.  I  would 
like  the  work  to  be  such  that  a  person  could  be  so 
familiar  with  the  keyboard  that  he  could  then  put  the 
cap  on  and  experience  a  whole  other  kind  of  control 
and  activity.  This  kind  of  experience  might  be  interes- 
ting scientifically.  Until  now  we've  been  working  with 
state-of-the-art  technology,  and  one  shouldn't  see 
these  works  as  'science.'  It's  really  engineering. 

In  retrospect  it  was  the  opinion  both  of  Newton  and  of 
the  JPL  staff  that  although  the  project  was  perfectly 
suited  to  the  laboratory's  capability,  the  collaboration 


125 


A&T 


itself— interaction  between  the  artist  and  the  scientists- 
was  not  as  extensive  as  it  might  have  been.  Dr.  Megh- 
reblian  commented  that  one  of  JPL's  reasons  for  partici- 
pating in  A  &  T  was  to  establish  a  staff  interaction  with 
an  artist,  but  that  this  objective  was  only  partially 
realized  because  executing  the  project  involved  so  few 
personnel.  Those  individuals,  however,  did  make  a 
significant  contribution,  specifically  in  the  design  and 


in  a  studio  was  to  do  painting  and  sculpture.  As  I 
abandoned  the  concept  of  myself  as  an  artist,  I  began 
to  think  of  myself  as  a  problem  solver  instead.  This 
was  very  much  enhanced  by  my  experiences  at 
JPI 

What  I've  reached  is  something  else;  I'm  now  almost 
uninterested  in  offering  single  pieces  of  art.  What  I  do 


testing  of  the  chambers.  But  because  of  JPL's  financial 
limitations,  Newton  had  to  rely  on  sources  outside  the 
host  company  and  consequently  the  real  collaboration 
took  place  between  him  and  Keith  Carter.  Carter  made  a 
major  innovative  contribution  in  the  design  of  the  gas 
injection  system  and  in  working  out  the  final  timing 
sequence  of  the  tubes. 

Nevertheless,  Newton's  A&T  experience  was  valuable  in 
provoking  changes  in  his  attitude  toward  his  work: 
My  whole  sense  of  priority  has  changed.  Normally, 
artists  have  a  fierce,  one-pointed  preoccupation  with 
making  a  form  of  art,  and  end  up  censoring  and 
cancelling  anything  that  appears  irrelevant.  1  find  that 
attitude  personally  destructive.  My  own  growth  came 
as  I  tended  to  give  up  the  designation  of  artist,  giving 
permission  to  myself  to  be  as  diffuse  as  I  choose  or  as 
focused  as  I  choose.  As  a  result  I  abandoned  my 
studio  about  a  year  ago  and  have  only  been  in  it  to 
assemble  things.  I  no  longer  think  in  my  studio.  To  be 


comes  out  of  interaction  of  all  kinds.  It  might  be 
interaction  with  something  I  have  seen,  but  I  find  it's 
more  productive  to  interact  with  human  beings:  they 
can  talk  back  ....  I  have  ceased  making  art  by 
myself.  As  an  activity  I  find  it  uninteresting,  and  I  am 
appalled  by  the  isolation  that  surrounds  the  artist's 
approach  to  his  work.  So  many  people  find  it  natural 
and  inevitable.  I  surely  don't. 

The  real  learning  experience  in  this  multiplex  collab- 
oration was  my  own  development  of  a  way  to  admit 
people  into  my  process  immediately  past  intuition 
rather  than  at  the  much  later  point  when  formaliza- 
tion takes  place.  I  am  now  experimenting  with 
executing  works  with  people  during  the  intuitive  state 
or  even  in  advance  of  it  and  in  search  of  it. 

A  tangible  extension  of  this  conclusion  has  been  devel- 
oping in  the  months  since  the  Expo  show.  While  watch- 
ing Newton  operate  the  chambers  in  Japan,  John  Fork- 


Erich  Hartmann 

Born  Munich,  1927 
Resident  New  Yori<  City 


126 


ner  (the  engineer  on  Whitman's  environment)  commen- 
ted that  the  glow  discharge  phenomenon  works  in  much 
the  same  way  as  the  aurora  borealis.  Intrigued  by  this 
way  of  looking  at  the  glow  discharge  piece,  Newton 
conceived  of  making  an  artificial  aurora  borealis  and  has 
since  been  pursuing  the  problem,  trying  to  resolve  the 
logistics  of  its  execution.  It  would  involve  projecting  a 
rocket  into  the  ionosphere  which,  when  fired,  would 
activate  the  ions  in  much  the  same  way  that  a  plasma 
functions  in  a  glow  discharge,  creating  a  similar  effect  on 
a  grandoise  scale.  Newton  met  with  Dr.  Feynman,  who 
agreed  to  attempt  to  procure  small  rockets  and  permis- 
sion to  use  a  launching  site  through  his  contacts  at 
NASA.  It  remains  to  be  seen  if  these  efforts  will  be 
realized. 

Gail  R.  Scott 


The  photographer  Erich  Hartmann  saw  MT  in  New  York 
in  December,  1968,  and  wrote  to  us  later  that  month: 
Since  I  saw  you  I  have  speculated  and  daydreamed 
pleasantly  and  repeatedly  on  which  corporation 
would  interest  me  and  what  sort  of  work  within  it  I 
would  propose.  But  although  this  is  fun,  it  is  finally 
self-defeating.  It  cannot  help  but  sound  like  a  sales 
talk  for  myself  and  even  worse,  it  attempts  to  make 
predictable  what  should  not  be  predictable  if  it  is 
truly  to  fulfill  the  purposes  of  the  project.  Ergo,  no 
concrete  proposals  from  me. 

Instead,  I  want  to  give  you  the  state  of  mind,  the 
attitude,  with  which  I  would  approach  this  project 
regardless  of  the  industry,  the  products,  the  people, 
the  underlying  ideas  involved.  I  would  first  of  all 
attempt  to  sense  who  and  what  they  are,  what  they 
make  and  how  they  make  it,  their  underlying  princi- 
ples of  concept  and  design  and  manufacture.  I  would 
want  to  do  this  with  all  my  senses,  without  precon- 
ception of  knowledge  or  experience,  but  using  in- 
stinct and  intuition.  I  would  want  to  soak  up  the 
place  and  the  people  and  the  environment  until  I 
were  full  like  a  sponge,  hearing  conversations  reverb- 
erate in  the  mind's  ear  and  seeing  previously  seen 
sights  in  the  mind's  eye  long  afterwards.  Only  then 
would  I  begin  to  ask  of  myself  and  of  others  the 
questions  which  signal  the  entry  of  intellect  and  of 
the  desire  and  the  need  to  organize  experience  into 
something  meaningful  and  expressible  and  under- 
standable. 


Most  important  of  all,  during  all  of  such  a  project,  I 
would  intend  to  address  myself  on  every  level  of 
perception  possible  to  the  meaning  of  the  project 
itself.  Art  and  Technology,  to  the  attempt  and  the 
effort  to  fuse  the  two  entities  into  an  expression  of 
their  relatedness.  My  belief  is  best  expressed  in  a 
sonnet  by  Francis  Thompson:  'All  things,  Near  or 
Far,  Hiddenly,  to  each  other  linked  are  ... ' 

What  this  frame  of  mind  together  with  experience 
and  skills,  plus  the  stimulation  of  the  host  environ- 
ment, would  yield  for  the  1970  exhibition  I  don't 
know  and  cannot  possibly  foretell.  Perhaps  it  would 
be  photographic  or  in  some  ways  related  to  photog- 
raphy, perhaps  not.  From  my  core  as  a  photographer 
I  have  ventured  into  other  fields,  not  always  related 
to  photography,  such  as  graphic  and  conceptual 
design,  a  personal  blending  of  words  and  images,  into 
the  design  of  three-dimensional  structures  and  objects 
to  convey  the  feeling  and  sometimes  even  the  mean- 
ing of  complex  technological  ideas  like  programming 
for  computers. 


Robert  Irwin 

Born  Long  Beach,  California,  1928 
Resident  Venice,  California 


James  Turrell 

Born  Los  Angeles,  1943 
Resident  Venice,  California 


A&T 


One  of  the  first  artists  with  whom  MT  seriously  discus- 
sed joining  A&T  was  Robert  Irwin.  Irwin's  initial 
reaction  to  the  idea  of  working  within  a  corporation  was 
to  express  skepticism— not  about  his  own  ability  or 
desire  to  collaborate  intensively  with  engineers  or 
scientists,  but  about  the  structuring  of  the  program  [see 
introduction,  p.  12] .  Once  the  artist  was  persuaded  to 
visit  corporations  and  sign  a  contract  with  us,  his  in- 
volvement developed  into  a  virtual  life  commitment. 
Indeed  the  ramifications  of  the  "Irwin/Turrell/Garrett 
project"  so  far  transcend  the  immediate  parameters  of 
A&T  that  it  is  not  possible  for  us  fully  to  know,  much 
less  to  document,  every  phase  or  outcome  of  the  on- 
going work  set  in  motion  by  the  original  A&T  connec- 
tion. 

In  August  of  1968,  Irwin  toured  two  Patron  Sponsor 
Corporations  recently  signed  with  us— Lockheed  Aircraft 
Corporation  and  IBM.  With  him  and  our  staff  on  the 
Lockheed  tour  was  R.B.  Kitaj  [see  Kitaj  section] ;  they 
visited  Lockheed's  Rye  Canyon  research  center,  as  well 
as  the  Burbank  aircraft  production  complex.  It  was 
evident  even  during  this  preliminary  view  of  a  corpor- 
ation that  Irwin,  unlike  Kitaj,  was  not  interested  so 
much  in  industrial  fabricating  techniques  as  in  the  more 
abstract  areas  of  theoretical  experiments  in  perceptual 
psychology.  At  Rye  Canyon,  there  was  an  anechoic 
chamber  (a  room  heavily  insulated  against  outside  noise 
stimuli  and  thus  non-reverberant),  and  a  chamber  into 
which  sound  and  visual  stimuli  could  be  introduced  for 
the  purpose  of  testing  human  responses  to  various 
sensory  phenomena.  These  were  precisely  the  kinds  of 
research  facilities  to  which  Bob  wished  to  gain  access. 
According  to  notes  made  by  Gail  Scott  following  this 
tour,  he  asked  to  locate  a  Lockheed  specialist  with 
whom  he  could  discuss  "acoustic  coatings— what  he 
wants  is  architectural  acoustics.  Wants  to  do  an  environ- 
ment using  optics,  acoustics,  lasers,  etc.  without  any 
mechanism  exposed." 


niques  and  experimental  phenomena  he  wished  to  study: 
Space  craft  cabin/support  environment: 
investigations  necessary  to  determine  what  perceptual 
awarenesses  are  necessary  for  basic  orientation  and 
stability. 

sound— what  kind,  how  much,  interrupted?  natural 
environment  noises  for  attention,  sleep,  etc. 

visual  stimulus  for  attention,  orientation,  space, 
sitting 

tactile— touch  orientation  to  instruments,  space  of 
capsule 

how  much  can  be  corrected  through  training  or 
assumed/what  kind  of  training? 

what  kind  of  equipment  was  used  to  gather  this 
information?  Ganzfield  sphere,  anechoic  chamber, 
etc. 

How  was  this  information  applied  to  the  design  of  the 
capsule?  visual  information  of  instruments,  sound 
information,  how  much  sense  of  control  was  built  in 
and  not  entrusted  to  the  astronauts. 

all  information  where  man's  sensual  awarenesses  were 
tested  with  conclusions  of  degrees  of  awareness/ 
human  prowess  (sighting  of  specific  objects  on  the 
earth)  basic  necessities  for  maintaining  sanity. 

Materials: 
Morano 

light  properties  of  paint,  ceramics,  materials  with 
abilities  to  diffract,  diffuse,  curve  light— high  absorp- 
tion or  reflectivity.  Materials  with  special  sound 
properties— deadening  high  reflectance,  etc.  how  do 
they  protect  the  men  from  the  sound  during  liftoff? 
ability  to  change  any  perceptions  of  sound. 


On  the  IBM  tour  Bob  was  accompanied  by  Cal  Tech 
physicist  Dr.  Richard  Feynman;  they  spent  two  days  at 
IBM's  enormous  San  Jose  complex.  Again,  Bob  was  most 
drawn  to  investigate  the  laboratories  researching  human 
responses  to  special  environmental  situations.  The  IBM 
San  Jose  facility  is  equipped  to  deal  in  areas  seemingly 
far  afield  from  the  production  of  computers— there  are 
elaborate  physics  and  chemistry  labs,  for  example— and, 
although  nothing  came  to  develop  between  Irwin  and 
IBM,  the  tour,  especially  through  his  close  contact  with 
Dr.  Feynman,  was  an  extremely  rich  experience  for  the 
artist. 

A  match  between  Lockheed  and  Kitaj  was  effected  in 
September  but  Irwin  arranged  to  consult  with  Lock- 
heed's Don  Christiansen,  of  their  Public  Affairs  office. 
Bob  drew  up  for  Christiansen  a  rough  listing  of  tech- 


Optics: 

any  materials  with  optical  properties,  diffraction 

gratings  screening  materials— diamond  or  triangular 

shaped  thread,  rear  screen  projection  screens,  glass  or 

plastic. 

gases  for  flames/optical  projection  screening  lights- 
xenon,  quartz-iodine  point  sources  (as  close  as  poss.) 

lenticular  screening  materials,  polarizing  any  particu- 
lar surface,  wavelength,  etc. 

Light,  color,  weight  and  density  in  the  open  air: 
Vandenberg  vapor  trails 
chemiluminescence  or  electroluminescence 
coronas  and  halos  and  'glorys' 
ice  crystals,  iron  filings 


128 


lightning  balls— plasma 

visual  observation  and  photos  of  sound  waves 

Schlieren  images  and  shadows  images 

electrical  fields  around  the  earth— glowing  Van  Allen 

belts 

When  he  gave  us  a  copy  of  this  outline,  he  spoke  to  us 
about  his  general  intentions,  here  recorded  in  memo 
form: 

Bob  knows  exactly  what  he  is  interested  in  technical- 
ly (see  his  own  report  of  his  fields  of  interest),  and 
was  very  persistent  in  asking  the  various  experts  at 
Lockheed  for  specific  information.  He  will  carry  on 
himself  with  Don  Christiansen,  although  he  will  not 
be  working  at  Lockheed.  He  wants  to  collaborate  on 
a  project  with  Jim  Turrell,  perhaps  at  JPL. 

Generally  Bob  is  involved  with  perceptual  psychol- 
ogy: 

Processes  of  receiving  and  reacting  to  information.  He 
wants  to  find  out  more  about  the  application  of 
studies  and  equipment  used  in  recording  people's 
reactions  to  light,  sound,  color,  weight,  density,  etc., 
before  he  even  starts  to  work  out  a  project. 

We  learned  at  this  time  that  Irwin  had  been  in  close 
touch  with  James  Turrell  over  the  Summer  of  '68,  and 
that  the  idea  of  collaborating  with  the  younger  artist  on 
a  project  for  A  &  T  had  apparently  been  in  his  mind  for 
some  time.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Turrell  had 
suggested  to  Bob  many  of  the  concepts  he  was  exploring 
with  Christiansen  at  Lockheed  and  with  Dr.  Feynman. 
Significantly,  he  attached  to  his  outline  for  Christiansen 
a  bibliography  compiled  by  Turrell  of  books  and  articles 
on  perceptual  psychology.  Turrell,  having  had  consider- 
able academic  training  in  psychology  at  Pomona  College, 
had  more  direct  access  to  literature  in  the  field,  and  had 
a  greater  understanding  of  experimental  methodology 
than  Irwin.  Bob,  however,  had  for  years  been  intuitively 
dealing  with  certain  subtle  aspects  of  the  psychology  of 
perception  through  his  work.  When  the  two  artists  met 
and  entered  Into  a  period  of  intense  dialogue,  they  both 
felt  a  sense  of  extraordinary  potential— it  was  as  if  each 
had  found  in  the  other  an  ideally  complementary  source 
of  information.  Irwin  brought  to  the  relationship  his 
long  experience  as  an  artist  and  his  highly  evolved 
esthetic  sensibility;  Turrell  had  an  intellectual  back- 
ground, and  thus  a  verbal  knowledge  of  theory  and 
technique,  which  could  open  wide  new  possibilities  for 
application  by  Bob  or  both  artists  together.  [1,  Turrell 
at  left,  Irwin  right] 

When  it  was  proposed  to  us  that  the  two  artists  enter 
Into  corporation  residence  collaboratively,  we  agreed 
without  hesitation.  We  weren't  certain  whether  Jet 
Propulsion  Laboratory,  where  they  were  eager  to  work, 
could  provide  a  satisfactory  degree  of  commitment. 


since  they  were  not  a  Patron  Sponsor  Corporation  and 
had  placed  definite  limits  on  the  extent  of  time  and 
money  they  could  afford  to  put  into  the  project. 

There  was,  however,  another  aerospace-oriented  corpor- 
ation contracted  with  the  Museum  as  of  May,  1968-The 
Garrett  Corporation— which  we  had  not  yet  matched 
with  an  artist.  (The  young  Canadian  artist  lain  Baxter, 
and  kinetic  sculptor  Len  Lye  had  both  toured  Garrett, 
but  nothing  came  of  these  encounters.)  In  November, 
1968,  it  was  arranged  for  Irwin  and  Turrell  to  meet  with 


I*     \ 


Tom  Vanides,  our  contact  man  at  Garrett,  and  Dr.  Ed 
Wortz,  Head  of  the  corporation's  Life  Sciences  Depart- 
ment in  Torrance,  California.  This  preliminary  meeting- 
attended  by  us  and  Dr.  Feynman,  as  well  as  the  artists- 
was  one  of  the  most  exciting  and  spontaneously  produc- 
tive occasions  of  its  kind  we  attended  during  the  entire 
course  of  A  &  T.  It  was  immediately  evident  that  Dr. 
Wortz's  interests  and  field  of  research  were  precisely 
parallel  to  those  of  the  two  artists.  Wortz  has  a  Ph.D.  in 
Experimental  Psychology  from  the  University  of  Texas. 
He  has  been  with  Garrett  since  1962.  The  nature  of  his 
work  at  Garrett  is  directly  concerned  with  human 
perceptual  responses  in  special  conditions:  the  Garrett 
Life  Sciences  Department  has  been  importantly  involved 
in  developing  life  support  systems  for  manned  lunar 
flights.  Wortz  has  done  considerable  research  on  the 
problem  of  actually  walking  on  the  moon— this  implies 
such  considerations  as  the  astronaut's  perceptions  of 
space  and  perspective  when  he  is  near  or  on  the  lunar 
surface,  what  his  physical  and  psychological  tolerances 
are  during  various  phases  of  his  exertions,  etc. 

On  the  basis  of  several  preliminary  meetings  between  the 
two  artists  and  Wortz,  it  was  agreed  to  proceed  with  an 
artist-corporation  match.  Artist  contracts  were  signed, 
and  the  collaboration  proceeded.  Irwin  and  Turrell  met 


129 


A&T 


frequently  with  Dr.  Wortz— sometimes  at  Garrett,  often 
at  one  of  their  studios,  or  at  Wortz's  home— from  No- 
vember through  July  of  1969.  [2]   In  January,  Wortz 
moved  with  his  family  to  Manhattan  Beach,  primarily  in 
order  to  be  nearer  the  two  artists. 

The  areas  of  Investigation  pursued  during  these  months 
were  manifold.  For  the  first  two  months,  the  artists  were 
definitely  working  toward  the  designing  of  a  structure 
for  the  Museum  exhibition.  (This  plan  was  later  aban- 
doned for  several  reasons.) 

The  following  statement  was  formulated  in  January, 
1969,  as  a  tentative  proposal  for  a  course  of  action: 
Project  Art  and  Technology's  time  schedule  is  seen  in 
three  parts,  first  six  months  devoted  to  development 
of  overall  perceptual  thesis  between  the  principals. 
Dr.  Ed  Wortz,  and  artists  R.  Irwin  and  J.  Turrell,  the 
basic  perceptual  research  to  begin  in  January  1969, 
with  the  cooperation  of  Jay  Dowling,  UCLA  Psychol- 
ogy Department,  with  students  of  that  department 
and  forms  of  stimulus  complexity/uncertainty  con- 
sidered for  the  project. 

Begin  planning  physically,  forms  and  means  consid- 
ered, development  of  a  number  of  possible  working 
spaces,  and  various  ways  of  implementing  the  physi- 
cal needs  of  the  thesis. 


Research  in  depth,  tools,  materials  and  people  neces- 
sary to  implement  or  expand  project. 

The  second  six  months,  having  arrived  at  the  basic 
format  and  physical  plan,  a  space  will  be  leased  to 
build  and  then  refine  the  actual  working  space, 
methods  of  entrance,  exit,  control  of  elements,  input 
of  stimulus,  etc. 

Research  will  continue  with  a  variety  of  subjects  in 
actual  working  space,  to  determine  and  refine  time 
spans,  positioning  and  final  working  of  the  project. 

Physical  structure  will  then  be  dismantled  and  reas- 
sembled in  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum,  in 
keeping  with  the  time  schedule  for  the  'exhibition.' 

The  project  is  seen  now,  by  the  principals,  to  involve 
four  periods  of  perceptual  change,  plus  and  minus, 
each  working  with  the  states  of  consciousness. 

PART  1    A  queuing  area,  to  be  seen  as  a  part  of  the 
museum,  but  isolated,  sound  dampened,  2 
or  3  persons  at  one  time.  This  area  to 
develop  a  time  span  and  positioning  for  Part 
2. 


130 


PART  2  Sensory  Deprivation 

a.  one  person  for  a  period  of  from  6  to  15 
minutes  using  an  anechoic  type  space. 

1 .  This  space  to  be  fully  sound  damp- 
ened and  in  total  darkness. 

2.  Time  span  to  be  experimented  with 
using  subjects  to  determine  optimum 
lengths. 

b.  Person  to  enter  with  as  little  orientation 
to  size,  shape  and  his  position  in  space, 
as  is  possible. 

1 .   Entrance  should  obscure  outside 
scale,  and  position  of  room  within 
museum  space. 

c.  Within  first  minute  or  two,  stimulus  to 
be  introduced/visual,  audio/to  define  a 
space  on  his  senses  and  to  focus  and 
heighten  attention  on  his  sense  aware- 
ness. This  is  to  be  done  near  his  area  of 
expectancy. 

d.  Events  not  to  be  repeated. 

This  will  leave  him  with  a  lingering 
anticipation  and  a  form  of  participation; 
in  his  sense  isolation  his  focus  should  fall 
back  on  his  own  sense  phenomena. 

1 .  The  sounds  of  his  own  system,  retinal 
color  fields,  etc. 

2.  He  could  back  into  a  subtle  form  of 
meditation. 

e.  Sensory  deprivation  seems  to  alter  the 
orders  of  our  established  sensory  depen- 
dence. 


positioning  by  the  use  of  more  than 
one  sense. 

Over  a  one-month  period,  from  mid-January  to  mid- 
February,  James  Turrell  periodically  wrote  up  formal- 
ized notes  on  the  Garrett  project,  outlining  the  possibili- 
ties for  the  Museum  "sensory  chamber"  and  stating 
general  observations  about  his  own— and,  by  implication, 
the  team's— overall  intentions  and  philosophy. 

PROJECT  WITH  GARRETT  1-15-69 
Possible  setup  with  three  spaces: 

1.  queuing  area— preparatory  area 

sound  dampened,  less  complex  than  the  outside 
world,  time:  5-10  minutes 

2.  anechoic  chamber 

entrance  from  chamber  1  is  obscured  by  either  a 

blind  wall  or  curve. 

visitor  is  seated  in  chair  in  reclining  position  with 

head  mounted  in  center  of  space 

size  of  room:  a  cube,  approx.  12  x  12  x  12 

sound  dampening  elements  flocked  back 

The  chair  the  visitor  is  seated  in  is  constructed  of 

moveable  parts  which  will  slowly  flatten  as  it  is 

hydraulically  lifted  up  to  the  third,  upper  chamber 

so  that  the  visitor  will  end  up  prone  on  the  floor 

of  the  upper  chamber. 

there  will  be  no  light  or  sound  stimuli  at  first  in 

the  chamber,  and  any  that  will  be  presented  will 

be  determined  by  forthcoming  experiments; 

expected  stimuli  will  be  something  on  the  order  of 

sub-threshhold  light  flashes  and  sound  flashes 

'reorienting  stimuli';  these  stimuli  will  increase 

gradually  to  the  point  which  seems  to  be  between 

hallucination  and  reality. 

time  spent  in  chamber  will  be  between  5-10 

minutes. 

This  chamber  is  a  sensitizing  situation  for  the 

following  chamber  as  well  as  a  unique  experience 

in  itself. 


PART  3  Sensory  participation/controlled  input, 
person  to  enter  directly  from  deprivation 
space,  to  spend  6  to  15  minutes. 

a.  Content  of  this  space  to  be  seen  as  a 
singular  sense  experience,  to  see  space  as 
surrounding  and  positive. 

b.  Stimulus  information  to  avoid  any 
imagery  identification/non  object/a 
major  objective  is  to  make  all  stimulus 
harmonious. 

1 .   Development  of  sensory  crossovers/ 
the  support  of  any  awareness  or 


upper  chamber 

domed,  cylindrical,  semi-translucent  for  back 
projection,  constructed  of  seamless  plexiglass, 
visitor's  first  sensation  of  this  chamber  will  be  that 
of  experiencing  a  Ganz  field. 
The  space  will  have  a  sound  quality  and  a  light 
quality  which  will  be  manipulated;  we  do  not  plan 
to  use  any  images  per  se,  but  are  more  interested 
in  changes  in  light  quality,  color  temperature  of 
light,  intensity  of  light,  pulsating  effects.  We  are 
interested  in  having  changes  take  place  behind  the 
person,  or  on  his  periphery,  therefore  there  is  a 
need  for  a  tracking  device  to  determine  the  po- 
sition of  the  viewer. 


131 


A&T 


4.    Leaving  the  upper  chamber: 

The  platform  reforms  itself  into  a  chair. 
The  visitor  sits  on  it  and  descends  back  into  the 
anechoic  chamber  which  is  lit,  a  door  opposite 
from  the  entrance  opens,  and  the  visitor  exits 
through  it  via  a  tunnel  to  outside  of  the  museum; 
the  tunnel  becomes  gradually  less  sound  absorbing 
as  it  approaches  the  outdoors. 

We  are  working  with  states  of  consciousness  and 
awareness. 

Find  out  about  the  sound  device  that  makes  a  wall 
act  as  a  speaker.  Bob  Eriser  deals  this  product  for  a 
company  called  Rollen  Star. 

To  decide  the  best  use  of  the  anechoic  chamber  we 
will  do  some  experiments  with  the  chamber  at  UCLA 
studying  the  effects  of: 

length  of  time  in  the  chamber 

visual  stimulation 

auditory  stimulation 

kinesthetic  stimulation 

and  combinations  of  these  variables 

We  will  seek  results  dealing  with  the  S's  thresholds, 
JND  limens,  likes-dislikes,  and  their  impressions  of 
any  hallucinations  or  changes  in  psychic  state  while  in 
the  chamber. 

We'll  also  try  to  find  how  to  produce  the  proper  set 
for  the  next  space,  the  next  experience. 

Subliminal  word  'spacing',  tatistascopic  exposures 

PROJECT  WITH  GARRETT  1-21-69 
Technology  is  merely  a  means— not  an  end.  Techno- 
logical instruments  are  extensions  of  ideas,  i.e.:  they 
measure  what  you  already  think  is  there,  what  you 
have  decided  to  measure.— Symptoms— not  necessarily 
what  is  significant. 

Allowing  people  to  perceive  their  perceptions— mak- 
ing them  aware  of  their  perceptions— We've  decided 
to  investigate  this  and  to  make  people  conscious  of 
their  consciousness.  We're  concerned  with  manipula- 
ting the  conscious  state. 

Sense  of  sensing:  awareness  of  perceptions,  a  reflexive 
act.  Working  with  the  sense  of  the  senses— a  change  in 
value. 

working  with  non-verbal  experience 

This  project,  we  believe,  is  an  extension  of  our  work, 
just  as  our  work  is  an  extension  of  some  mainstream 
of  modern  art.  A  problem  may  arise  with  this  project 


in  the  minds  of  the  art  community  who  may  regard  it 
as  'non-art'— as  theatrical,  or  more  scientific  than 
artistic,  or  as  being  just  outside  the  arena  of  art. 
Although  it  is  a  strong  alteration  as  far  as  methods, 
means,  and  intent,  we  believe  in  it  as  art,  and  yet 
recognize  the  possibility  of  a  redefinition  needed  to 
incorporate  it  into  the  'arena.' 

The  necessity  for  this  statement  stems  from  the  fact 
that  this  project  will  ultimately  be  dealt  with  by  the 
art  world,  not  so  much  the  scientific  world,  though 
this  might  not  be  unwarranted,  and  therefore  we  are 
held  to  the  dialogue  of  the  art  community  and  are 
subject  to  its  reviews  and  criticisms.  Thus  we  feel  we 
must  make  our  position  clear,  that  we  feel  our  project 
is  not  inconsistent  with  what  has  come  before.  (How 
can  it  be?) 

If  we  define  art  as  part  of  the  realm  of  experience,  we 
can  assume  that  after  a  viewer  looks  at  a  piece  he 
'leaves'  with  the  art,  because  the  'art'  had  been 
experienced. 

We  are  dealing  with  the  limits  of  an  experience— not 
for  instance  with  the  limits  of  painting.  We  have 
chosen  that  experience  out  of  the  realm  of  experience 
to  be  defined  as  'art,'  because  having  this  label  it  is 
given  special  attention.  Perhaps  this  is  all  'art'  means— 
this  Frame  of  Mind. 

The  artist  singles  out  that  which  he  feels  needs  to  be 
experienced.  Possibly  because  it  hasn't  been  experi- 
enced enough— is  rare— When  it  has  been  experienced 
(on  a  cultural  level)  this  isn't  necessary  and  may  no 
longer  be  within  the  bounds  of  'art.'  Hence,  everyday, 
common  objects,  acts,  forms  of  another  culture  (i.e., 
Japan)  may  seem  close  to  art  for  us  but  to  those  of 
that  culture  they  are  just  part  of  their  everyday 
experience.  The  object  of  art  may  be  to  seek  an 
elimination  of  the  necessity  for  it. 

Much  art  today  appears  unprofessional,  some  artists 
as  revolutionaries,  attacking  existing  structure,  others 
are  involved  in  construction  of  new  structures,  all 
artists  pass  through  many  stages  in  their  development. 
Need  for  some  perspective  to  tell  where  trends  are 
going  and  where  artists  are  in  relation  to  each  other. 

Plans  for  continuing  to  work  together  after  complet- 
ing this  project  include  retaining  the  space  that  will 
be  rented  for  this  project.  There  we  can  build  en- 
vironments and  so  experiment  ourselves,  and/or 
interest  universities  to  carry  on  with  some  of  the 
facets  of  our  work.  The  project  may  open  new  areas 
of  work  to  be  involved  with. 

Discussion  of  an  experiment:  S's  isolated  up  to  72 


132 


hours  with  auditory,  visual  and  tactile  deprivation. 
Results:  Vz  S's  had  progressions  of  alpha,  beta,  and 
delta  rhythms,  others  experienced  digressions  of  these 
rhythms— effects  of  deprivation  ran  both  ways— 
maybe  effects  are  dependent  on  the  attitude  of  the  S 
(whether  he  got  into  or  withdrew  from  the  experi- 
ence). 

We  can  consider  this  study  to  be  done  on  poor 
experimental  design,  and  we  don't  accept  the  results 
that  sensory  thresholds  were  not  changed  after 
deprivation.  This  is  because  the  deprivation  consisted 
of  being  blindfolded,  earmuffed,  and  hand  tied. 

One  finding  relevant  to  our  work  was  that  the 
changes  in  the  brain  rhythms  depended  in  part  on  the 
time  of  the  day,  for  example,  circadian  rhythms  exist 
only  in  late  afternoon  and  early  evening. 

Sensory  experience  is  heightened  when  sense  modal- 
ities act  in  phase.  Consciously  trying  to  bring  them 
into  phase  destroys  the  effect:  not  necessarily  true. 

The  work  we  have  selected  to  deal  with  is  interesting 
to  art  by  the  fact  that  it  is  what  artists  have  previous- 
ly been  envolved  in,  yet  have  never  approached  ex- 
haustively. The  works  of  previous  artists  have  come 
from  their  own  experiences  or  insights  but  haven't 
given  the  experience  itself.  They  had  set  themselves 
up  as  a  sort  of  interpreter  to  the  layman.  A  change  of 
this  trend  began  with  non-objective  painting,  the 
abstract  expressionists,  who  were  involved  with  the 
idea  of  'it  is  the  thing  itself.'  Today,  Pop  artists  are 
into  extensions  of  this  thinking.  Our  interest  is  in  a 
form  where  you  realize  that  the  media  are  just  per- 
ception. 

Dealing  with  states  of  consciousness  is  like  a  drug 
experience:  most  people  hold  back  from  going 
through— experiencing— the  new  until  they  have 
correlated  it  to  something  already  known,  whereas 
the  artist  may  be  unique  in  that  he  seeks  the  new 
experience,  and  lets  himself  go  accepting  it  as  a 
unique  experience. 

In  the  project  we  have  designed,  there  is  a  cleansing 
situation  where  the  people  may  relax  and  be  able  to 
open  up— to  be  able  to  experience  somethir>g  unique. 

PROJECT  WITH  GARRETT  1-25-69 

Make  certain  viewer  is  aware  that  the  experience  is 

formed  within,  that  he  forms  the  experience,  gives  it 

substance. 

While  he  is  in  the  anechoic  chamber,  the  visitor  is 
being  set  up  for  the  experience  in  the  upper  chamber, 
if  a  different  space  is  even  to  be  used,  so  aside  from  it 


being  an  experience  in  itself,  the  anechoic  chamber  is 
also  a  preconditioning  situation. 

The  viewers  must  assume  the  responsibility,  they  get 
into  the  experience,  and  they  make  the  art— they  are 
the  actuality. 

Concerning  the  statement  we  are  writing  about  the 
project:  'what  we  tend  to  accomplish  is  to  bring  you 
to  an  awareness  of  perception,  of  perceiving  yourself 
perceiving,  pressing  the  information  against  the 
senses— making  the  sense  of  reality  a  sense  of  the 
senses.' 

'.  .  .  instead  of  placing  our  images  on  an  object,  we 
will  define  a  non-object  situation  in  setting  up  the 
boundaries  of  experience  to  be  perceived  .  .  .' 

(now  explain  what  we  are  trying  to  accomplish) 
The  experience  is  the  'thing,'  the  experiencing  is  the 
'object.' 

Instructions  to  visitors? 

that's  asking  them  to  make  enough  of  a  change  from 
their  normal  state.  The  quality  of  their  involvement  is 
dependent  on  the  degree  they  play  the  game,  but  we 
need  something  where  the  setup  of  the  thing  makes 
them  want  to  play  the  game.  Hit  them  at  the  level  of 
expectancy  so  they  become  engaged  and  then  manip- 
ulate them  to  our  level— a  seductive  act. 

Therefore,  whatever  we  do  should  begin  at  their  level 
of  expectancy,  i.e.,  in  the  anechoic  chamber,  the 
presentation  of  the  first  light  stimulus  can  act  to 
define  the  space  and  that  will  excite  them,  yet  at  the 
same  time  it  will  do  what  we  want,  to  get  them 
looking  at  their  retinal  field  after  the  flash,  therefore 
getting  them  looking  at  their  own  eyeball  (to  look  at 
their  looking),  and  listening  to  their  own  ears. 

PROJECT  WITH  GARRETT  2-10-69 
Queuing  or  conditioning  area: 
Start  with  realm  built  with  selected  vocabulary, 
non-literal.  The  space  will  be  museum-like,  with  2  or 
3  people  keeping  them  there  as  long  as  we  desire.  We 
can  program  people  there  using  words  to  produce  a 
thought-idea  continuum  which  would  have  no  literate 
context.  The  words  can  either  be  presented  audibly 
or  visually  or  combined  somehow.  They  can  start  off 
as  subliminally  presented  moving  toward  conscious 
presentation.  The  more  spatial  the  presentation,  the 
more  effective  it  will  be. 

Find  words  through  dictionary  and  thesaurus,  and 
form  groups  of  words  as  we  like  them.  Categorize 
them  as  to:  object-words,  sound-words,  action-words, 
state-of-being-words,  place-words,  sensual-words,  etc. 


133 


A&T 


Must  structure  the  forms  we  want,  so  they  corres- 
pond with  experience  we  want  them  to  have.  Also, 
must  think  in  terms  of  the  multi-level  input  we  are 
creating  and  structure  it  so  that  it  is  understated 
rather  than  over-whelming. 

We  must  choose  words  to  correspond  to  the  experi- 
ence the  people  are  going  to  have,  i.e.,  picl<  words 
that  describe  the  space  of  the  anechoic  chamber. 

What  we  are  dealing  with  are  meditative  states.  The 
preconditioning  sets  up  state  of  meditation,  so  when 
they  leave  the  first  chamber  they  will  be  in  that 
encapsulated  form.  Then  we  want  to  take  them 
slowly  out  of  that  form  to  a  specialized  space  where 
they  change  from  being  oriented  inwardly  to  their 
own  space  or  a  space  awareness  that  extends  maxi- 
mally 6  feet  around  themselves,  to  where  they  push 
their  experience  outward  to  the  space  outside. 

Quote  from  Blake:  'If  the  doors  of  perception  were 
cleansed,  everything  would  appear  to  man  as  it  is, 
infinite.' 

Try  to  deal  with  the  space  the  words  make,  as  if  each 
word  had  the  power  of  a  mantra.  Remove  it  from  any 
literary  connotations,  so  that  the  word  is  denoting 
portions  of  your  thought-idea  continuum  or  portions 
of  your  mental  space,  rather  than  connecting  itself 
literally  to  other  words.  Thus  making  the  word  an 
image-conjuring,  spatial-feeling,  sentient-feeling 
device. 

Time  is  illusionary,  events  make  the  time. 

There  is  no  such  thing  as  modern  art,  there  was  art 
that  was  done  then,  and  art  that  is  done  now,  art  is 
equal. 

All  art  is  experience,  yet  all  experience  is  not  art.  The 
artist  chooses  from  experience  that  which  he  defines 
out  as  art,  possibly  because  it  has  not  yet  been 
experienced  enough,  or  because  it  needs  to  be  experi- 
enced more. 

All  art-world  distinctions  are  meaningless. 


Several  experiments  were  devised,  principally  by  Turrell, 
to  test  subjects'  responses  to  special  environmental 
conditions  which  might  be  designed  for  the  Museum 
environment.  These  were  written  up  in  January: 
Investigations 

The  following  are  a  series  of  studies  that  we  plan  to 
undertake  before  deciding  upon  the  finished  structure 
and  form  of  the  experience  we  are  to  present  at  the 
end  of  our  contracted  association  with  the  Garrett 
Corporation  and  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art. 


134 


These  studies  will  begin  with  our  own  observations  in 
the  anechoic  chamber  and  will  later  involve  a  number 
of  subjects.  The  investigations  will  be  amended  as 
necessary  to  accommodate  our  findings  as  the  study 
progresses. 

May  change  order. 

May  alter  experiments. 

May  eliminate  experiments. 

Want  results  not  explanation. 

Mainly  based  upon  personal  observations. 

Will  use  subjects  when  whether  we  sense  something 

(i.e.,  when  we  know  what  we  are  about  to  sense)  or 

not  is  a  question. 

Experiment  Schedule 

Experiment  I:  Investigate  a  person's  reaction  to  the 
experience  of  an  anechoic  space  and  length  of  time  in 
the  space. 

Experiment  II:  Investigate  the  experiencing  of  an- 
echoic space  when  the  person  is  brought  into  the 
space  blindfolded,  i.e.,  without  prior  visual  knowl- 
edge of  the  space.  Can't  see  space. 

Experiment  HI:  Investigate  a  person's  reaction  to  the 
experience  of  an  anechoic  space  when  the  person  is 
brought  into  the  space  blindfolded  and  spatially 
disoriented,  i.e.,  without  prior  visual  and  directional 
(spatial)  knowledge. 

Experiment  IV:  Investigate  how  the  experience  is 
altered  when  the  space  is  strobed— made  visible  for  an 
instant,  i.e.  whether  and/or  how  a  person's  self-gener- 
ated space  is  changed  when  the  actual  room  space  is 
made  known  for  an  instant.  Alternative  strobe  with 
strongly  colored  light  (violet)  so  that  space  is  not 
identified— but  a  color  field  is  created  on  retina— some 
color  field  is  experienced  without  stimulation. 

Experiment  V:  Investigate  the  experience  of  gradual- 
ly introducing  very  low  levels  of  light  (varying  colors 
gradually  diffused)  into  an  anechoic  space  after  the 
person  has  been  in  total  darkness  and  soundlessness. 
Light  to  border  on  its  questionable  existence— as  to 
its  being  real  or  retinal  field  induced. 

Experiment  VI:  Investigate  the  experience  of  gradual- 
ly introducing  very  low  levels  of  sound  tones  into  an 
anechoic  space.  First  hear  the  quality  and  kinds  of 
sounds  the  ear  (s)  is  experiencing  in  soundlessness— 
possibly  use  sound  to  draw  different  kind  of  space. 
See  if  subject  (idea)  of  space  can  be  changed  in  this 
manner. 

Experiment  VII:  Investigate  visual  and  auditory 
intersensory  relations,  (color-tone  synesthesia)  Area 


of  separate  investigation  prior  to  (taste  tone,  etc. 
Exp.  VIII). 

Experiment  VIM:  Investigate  the  relations  of  taste 
and  tone  by  duplicating  the  taste  and  pitch  experi- 
ments of  Holt-Hansen.  This  experiment  should  be 
fairly  easy  to  duplicate  and  requires  a  sound  setup 
very  similar  to  that  needed  for  experiments  IX— XI. 
This  investigation  may  satisfy  our  needs  for  a  great 
beer  while  familiarizing  us  with  the  auditory  sense. 

Experiment  IX:  Investigate  the  experience  of  a  space 
and  tone  (what  sounds  feel  proper  in  a  space— 
whether  the  sounds  that  make  a  space  resonate  are 
perceived  as  most  correct  or  pleasant,  etc.). 

Experiment  X:  Investigate  the  experience  of  light  and 
tone  in  a  space. 

Experiment  XI:  Investigate  'word  spaces'  and 
whether  any  programming  (loading  or  priming)  prior 
to  the  experience  of  an  anechoic  space  will  enhance, 
heighten,  or  hinder  the  experience  of  that  space. 

Experiment  XII:  Investigate  Alpha  Conditioning. 

Not  all  of  these  experiments  formulated  by  Turrell  were 
carried  out,  but  Experiment  I— with  the  use  of  an  an- 
echoic chamber  made  available  to  Turrell  and  Irwin  at 
UCLA  [3,  4]  —was  elaborately  implemented.  All  in  all, 
about  thirty  or  forty  subjects  underwent  the  experi- 
ment, and  were  asked  to  record  their  responses.  A 
questionnaire  with  one  subject's  responses  follows: 

EXPERIMENT  I 

INTRODUCTION:  The  purpose  of  this  investigation 
is  to  determine  a  person's  reactions  to  isolation  in  a 
completely  dark  anechoic  chamber  for  a  short  period 
of  time. 

The  periods  of  isolation  for  three  different  groups  of 
people  will  be  4  minutes,  7  minutes,  and  10  minutes. 

PROCEDURE:  The  person  is  told  'We  want  you  to 
come  and  sit  in  this  room  for  a  period  of  time  and  see 
what  it's  lii<e. '  (This  set  of  'looking  for  something'  is 
not  unlike  coming  into  an  art  experience  with  a 
'looking  sense.')  'This  experience  is  yours  alone.  No 
one  is  observing  you.  Afterwards  we  will  instruct  you 
as  to  what  to  do  next. ' 

The  person  is  taken  into  the  anechoic  chamber  and 
seated.  The  light  is  turned  off,  and  the  door  closed 
for  the  time  duration.  Ten  persons  will  experience  the 
four  minute  duration,  ten  the  seven  minute,  and  ten 
the  ten  minute  duration.  After  the  time  is  up,  the 
door  is  opened,  the  light  turned  on,  and  the  person  is 
casually  asked:  'How  did  it  feel?'  to  obtain  an  initial 


135 


A&T 


136 


verbal  reaction.  The  person  is  then  asked  to  'Please 
come  out  and  be  seated  and  fill  out  this  question- 
naire. Answer  those  questions  you  can.' 

The  questionnaire  is  a  follows: 

Answer  any  question  that  you  feel  is  pertinent.  Please 
add  any  impressions  that  you  feel  were  not  covered 
by  the  questions: 

How  did  the  room  feel? 

Subject:  Hard  to  put  a  shape  to  it.  Flat  in  front  of 
me.  Hallucinations  had  shallow  depth.  On  looking 
straight  ahead,  I  felt  light  converging  on  the  sides  as  if 
from  behind,  but  when  I  turned  it  was  even  darker. 

What,  if  any,  was  the  effect  of  entering  the  room? 
S:  Springy  floor.  Could  be  scary  since  it  was  dark. 

What,  if  any,  was  the  effect  of  leaving  the  room? 
S:  Waking  up,  bright,  weird. 

Describe  the  overall  field  after  the  light  went  out. 
S:  Shooting  backwards  through  a  tunnel.  Blue-gray 
after-images  on  a  darker-grey  field.  A  shiny  object  to 
my  left  stayed  with  me  then  vanished. 

What  did  you  see? 

S:  Gray  on  dark  gray.  Rod-shaped  blue  things  and 
lights  swelling  in  from  sides.  Hallucinations  (e.g., 
faces  from  weird  angles— mainly  looking  up  at  them— 
focus  on  eyes  and  noses— mainly  'Christ-like'  and 
'blond-female'  types.)  and  designs  (e.g.,  fractionated 
planes)  and  colored  objects  (e.g.,  a  red  and  green 
eye). 

Describe  the  visual  space  you  were  involved  in. 
8:  Dream-like.  In  fact,  it  was  so  hard  not  to  close  my 
eyes  that  much  of  what  I  did  'see'  was  partial  dreams. 
Up  and  flat  at  5  feet  or  so. 

What  did  you  hear? 

S:  Fast  vibrating  mechanical  sound  throughout,  water 
sounds,  walking  sounds,  stomach  gurgles,  bone 
creakings,  when  I  clicked  my  tongue— it  had  a  dull, 
faraway  sound. 

Describe  the  auditory  space  you  were  involved  in. 
S:  Water  sounds  off  right,  walking  behind  me,  vibra- 
tion in  my  head,  I  was  elevated  from  my  body 
sounds. 

What  did  you  think  while  you  were  in  the  room? 
S:  Of  falling  alseep  (felt  guilty  about  this);  of  trying 
to  think  about  these  questions  which  I  knew  I  would 
have  to  answer  (i.e.,  concentrating  on  seeing  and 
hearing  mainly). 


How  long  did  you  feel  you  were  in  the  room? 
S:  Very  long  time— I  don't  know— timeless. 

What  sensations,  if  any,  were  intensified  or  modified 
while  you  were  in  or  since  you  have  come  out? 
S:  Sounds  are  louder,  no  hallucinations  now! 

Did  the  air  seem  abnormal  in  any  way? 

S:  Stuffy,  a  sneeze  stuck  with  me  for  a  long  time. 

Did  you  feel  claustrophobic  in  any  way? 
S:  Yes,  when  I  tried  to  look  around. 

Were  you  relieved  to  get  out? 

S:  In  a  sense,  so  that  I  would  remember  'my  dream.' 

Did  you  want  to  stay  in? 
S:  No 

Do  you  meditate? 
S:  No 

Age:  25       Sex:  F 

The  artists  also  duplicated  an  experiment  written  up  by 
Kristian  Holt-Hansen,  of  Copenhagen  University,  in 
1968,  called  "Taste  and  Pitch."  The  Holt-Hansen  paper 
described, 

...  a  new  method  of  quantitative  determination  of 
taste.  In  a  special  experimental  situation  Subject 
compares  taste  and  pure  tones.  The  latter  are  varied 
in  pitch  until  Subject  finds  the  pitch  which  character- 
izes the  sample.  The  method  is  illustrated  by  results 
for  two  samples,  Carlsberg  Lager  and  Carlsberg 
Elephant  Beer.  New  problems  are  involved  within  the 
psychology  of  perception. 

Irwin,  Turrell  and  Wortz  were  successful  in  confirming 
that  there  are  definite  "pleasure  zones"  of  corresponding 
taste  and  tone— when  drinking  Carlsberg  Elephant  Beer, 
the  tone  (which  could  be  manipulated  by  turning  a  dial 
connected  to  earphones)  that  produced  a  sense  of 
harmony  with  the  taste  of  the  beer  was  650  Hz.;  when 
drinking  Carlsberg  Lager,  a  less  sharp-tasting  beer,  the 
pleasurable  tone  was  about  10-15  Hz.  Certain  tones 
produced  no  effect  on  the  taste  of  the  beers,  but  when 
the  relationship  occurred,  i.e.,  when  the  tone  was  at  the 
particular  pitch  cited,  the  beer  tasted  distinctly  better. 

The  artists  were  interested  in  exploring  the  relationships 
between  tone  and  color  perception,  as  well— Wortz  at 
some  point  provided  them  with  information  in  this  area 
of  colortone  synesthesia— though  they  didn't  actually 
engage  in  formal  experimentation.  The  principal  aspect 
of  their  work  in  visual  perception  had  to  do  with  Ganz 
fields.  According  to  Wortz's  description,  a  Ganz  field  "is 
a  visual  field  in  which  there  are  no  objects  you  can  take 
hold  of  with  your  eye.  It's  a  complete  360°  field,  or  at 


137 


A&T 


least  has  to  include  total  peripheral  vision,  and  it's 
entirely  homogeneous  in  color,  white  in  our  case.  Its 
unique  feature  is  that  it  appears  to  be  light  filled.  That 
is,  light  appears  to  have  substance  in  the  Ganz  field." 
The  ones  constructed  by  Wortz,  Irwin  and  Turrell  were 
concave  hemispheres,  no  larger  than  about  three  feet  in 
diameter.  When  one  of  these  was  illuminated,  it  ap- 
peared, as  you  lool<ed  into  it,  to  be  solid,  as  if  there  were 
a  flat  plane  across  the  top.  [5]  Wortz  says  it  is  a  "fairly 
infinite  space.  One  of  the  most  exciting  things  about  it  is 
that  if  you  have  a  continually  changing  light  level,  the 
Ganz  field  will  disappear  and  then  reappear." 


the  "alpha  chamber,"  having  been  hooked  up  to  the 
EEG  and  instructed  briefly  by  Wortz.  [6]  Although  a 
single  session  of  this  kind  of  experimentation  is  not 
enough  to  enable  one  to  enter  at  will  a  true  meditative 
state,  and  thus  sustain  alpha  production,  all  three  were 
able  to  achieve  relatively  prolonged  "alpha  states."  The 
experience  in  itself  of  doing  nothing  for  a  half  hour— of 
sitting,  relaxed  and  alone,  intensely  aware  but  of  nothing 
in  particular,  is  one  to  which  most  people  are  not  habit- 
uated. Nothing  was  being  done  to  the  subjects— they 
were  simply  training  themselves  to  achieve  a  special  state 
of  consciousness  for  a  few  minutes  at  a  time.  Several 


Perhaps  the  most  important  phase  of  the  investigation 
pursued  by  Dr.  Wortz  and  the  two  artists  was  in  the  area 
of  alpha  conditioning.  Alpha  is  the  designation  given  to 
certain  measurable  cycles  of  brain  waves  which  have  for 
some  time  been  known  to  occur  strongly  during  states  of 
meditation.  Sustained  alpha  rhythms  of  between  twelve 
and  eight  cycles  per  second  can  be  induced  by  putting 
oneself  in  a  meditative  state.  One  can  test  one's  own 
ability  to  produce  alpha  with  the  use  of  an  electroencep- 
halograph machine,  hooked  up  to  some  kind  of  audile  or 
visual  sensor  which  tells  the  subject  when  alpha  is 
occurring.  Dr.  Wortz  contrived  a  device  which  worked 
extremely  well  for  himself,  Irwin  and  Turrell.  He  at- 
tached a  small  light  to  a  pair  of  glasses  worn  by  the 
subject  while  sitting,  relaxed,  in  a  comfortable  chair;  the 
subject  would  close  his  eyes,  and  see  through  his  eyelid 
the  light,  which  would  come  on  only  when  the  EEG 
registered  alpha  rhythms  of  twelve  cycles  per  second  or 
lower. 

One  day  in  July,  MT,  Jane  Livingston  and  Gail  Scott 
visited  Garrett  to  meet  with  the  artists  and  Dr.  Wortz, 
and  specifically  to  undergo  alpha  conditioning.  Each  in 
turn  spent  thirty  to  forty-five  minute  periods  alone  in 


hours  after  MT,  JL  and  GS  had  returned  from  Garrett  to 
the  Museum,  all  three  of  them  experienced  definite, 
inexplicable  sensations  of  anxiety,  or  a  sense  of  mental 
dislocation  or  dissociation.  Since  these  peculiar  sieges  of 
emotional  change  occurred  to  all  three,  and  to  all  within 
approximately  the  same  period  of  time,  it  seems  reason- 
able to  speculate  that  they  were  effects  caused  by  the 
alpha  conditioning.  (This  is  apparently  not  an  unusual 
phenomenon  from  one's  first  exposure  to  alpha,  but  it  is 
said  that  such  "after-effects"  disappear  with  increased 
expertise  in  this  kind  of  meditation.) 

The  experience  of  alpha  conditioning  for  the  two  artists 
and  Dr.  Wortz  was  important  not  so  much  in  itself,  but 
for  what  each  learned  through  it  about  states  of  con- 
sciousness, and  specifically  the  potentially  life-changing 
consequences  of  meditation.  In  talking  to  us  recently. 
Dr.  Wortz  did  mention  one  quite  specific  result  from  the 
alpha  experimentation. 

As  far  as  the  meditative  experiences  are  concerned, 
both  Jim  and  Bob  were  very  useful  to  me,  because 
they  provided  the  perspective  for  the  internal  experi- 
ences. Their  explanations  and  descriptions  were  really 
useful.  There  were  things  that  I  wouldn't  bother 


138 


trying  because  I  didn't  expect  any  results;  but  they 
went  ahead  and  tried  them,  and  they  worked  nicely. 
This  primarily  involved  visualization.  Prior  to  these 
experiments,  in  the  literature  on  this  area,  it  had  been 
assumed  that  you  couldn't  do  much  in  the  way  of 
visualization  while  producing  alpha.  This  just  didn't 
hold  up  at  all  ...  .  With  the  alpha,  visualization  tends 
to  be  enhanced  in  its  sharpness,  and  in  the  aspect  of 
brilliance. 

During  the  period  while  they  were  working  intensively 
with  alpha,  Wortz  formulated  a  list  of  exercises  for 
meditation  and  itemized  a  number  of  his  own  responses 
during  a  meditative  state  which  are  precisely  described 
and  indicate  the  essential  kinds  of  experience  he  and  the 
two  artists  were  undergoing: 

EXERCISES  IN  MEDITATION 
General  Instructions: 

Sit  comfortably— but  erect  at  all  times— head  level- 
preferably  full  or  half  lotus  but  a  straight  chair  will 
do. 

Hands  in  lap— one  cupped  within  the  other— palms 
up— tips  of  thumbs  together. 

Twice  a  day— Eyes  closed. 

1.  Counting  breaths— 1  week 

Breathe  slowly  and  rhythmically  with  the  gut 

Count  the  exhalations 

Count  up  to  100  and  then  backward  to  0 

Attend  to  breathing  and  to  the  count 

Try  to  attend  only  to  the  breathing  but  do  not 

particularly  fight  other  thoughts— when  they  arise, 

however,  do  not  pursue  them. 

2.  Seeing  breaths— 1  week 

Same  as  above  but  try  to  see  the  inhalations  and 
exhalations  (The  buddhists  say  that  the  breath  is 
blue— I  struck  out  on  this  one). 

3.  Hearing— 1  week 

Same  as  1  and  2  but  try  to  hear  the  breath  as  well 
while  breathing  as  quietly  as  possible. 

4.  Illumination— 1  week 

When  breathing  rhythmically  try  to  increase  the 
level  of  illumination  of  the  room  (seen  through 
the  closed  lids). 

5.  No  thought 

Proceed  through  the  meditation  period  without 
thought— work  at  no  thought.  (I  think  this  is  the 
best  individual  exercise.) 

6.  Group  effort— Meditate  in  a  group  and  try  to  help 
others— help  them  to  do  what?  It's  for  you  to  decide. 


7.  Koan 

Strenuous  effort  to  understand  intellectually  a 
purely  intellectual  question  that  has  no  intellec- 
tual resolution.  (Who  were  you  before  you  were 
born?  What  is  the  sound  of  one  hand  clapping? 
What's  in  the  meaning  of  the  word  Mu?— pick  your 
own.) 

8.  Eyes  Open 

Achieve  a  meditative  state  with  your  eyes  open- 
look  at  the  floor  about  1-2  meters  away— eye  lids 
lowered  slightly.  No  other  instructions  are  neces- 
sary. 

9.  Tantric 

Meditate  on  a  mystical  phrase  or  word  such  as 
Om.  The  word  is  repeated  over  and  over. 

Psychophysiological  experiences  I  have  had  during 
meditation  include: 

1.  Peripheral  vasoconstriction  (extremities  feel 
cool) 

2.  Profuse  salivation  early  in  the  period 

3.  Unique  stimulating  effect  of  unexpected  noises- 
resulting  in  a  whole  body  'thrill'  sensation  and 
sometimes  accompanied  by  a  flash  of  light 

4.  Time  compression— 30  minutes  seem  like  10 

5.  Loss  of  limb  localization 

6.  Apparent  and  paradoxical  spinning  of  the  room 

7.  'Butterflys'  in  the  stomach 

8.  Phosphenes 

9.  Seeing  the  'moon  rise' 

10.  Expansion  of  mind  and  body 

11.  Expansion  of  mind 

12.  Floating  sensation 

13.  Full  feeling  in  the  forehead  like  blocked  sinus 

14.  Irritated  area  on  the  forehead 

1 5.  Waxing  and  waning  of  a  drawing  sensation 
around  the  nose  and  eyes  at  approximately 
47  cpm  (seems  to  be  linked  with  threshhold 
movements  of  jaw  muscles) 

16.  Reduction  in  blink  rate 

17.  Relaxation  of  lower  eye  lid 

As  they  concentrated  increasingly  on  the  alpha  con- 
ditioning, Irwin  and  Turrell  became  less  inclined- 
through  the  Spring  and  into  the  Summer  of  1969— to 
carry  out  their  original  plan  for  designing  an  environ- 
ment combining  an  anechoic  chamber  with  a  Ganz  field 
for  the  Museum.  One  of  the  reasons  for  this  waning  of 
enthusiasm  about  constructing  an  "object"  had  to  do 
with  their  feeling  that  any  such  work,  because  of  the 
necessity  to  have  only  one  or  at  most  three  or  four 
participants  enter  it  at  a  time,  could  not  possibly  be 
exhibited  at  Expo  70,  and  would  be  difficult  to  handle 
even  in  a  considerably  less  crowded  Museum  situation. 
But  there  were,  perhaps,  other  less  concrete  reasons  for 


139 


A&T 


their  gradual  relinquishing  of  concern  for  "making  a 
work."  They  began  to  become  deeply  involved  in  the 
highly  personal  experience  Itself  oi  intimate  collabora- 
tion. Then,  in  August,  Jim  Turrell  suddenly  abdicated 
from  the  project.  He  terminated  his  relationship  with 
Irwin,  though  he  has  continued  to  the  present  time  to 
see  Wortz.  Irwin  said  later  that  had  Turrell  maintained 
his  participation  in  the  project,  they  might  eventually 
have  consummated  an  environmental  piece,  but  that  he 
didn't  feel  inclined  to  pursue  it  on  his  own,  or  with  Dr. 
Wortz. 

In  speaking  individually  about  the  three-way  collabora- 
tion more  than  a  year  after  it  happened,  Wortz,  Irwin 
and  Turrell  all  made  some  significant  comments  to  us 
reflecting  on  the  direction  it  took.  Wortz  sees  himself 
basically  as  a  sort  of  catalyst  in  the  relationship,  and 
tends  to  stress  the  active  role  played  by  the  artists  in  a 
mutual  learning  process,  with  himself  as  a  kind  of 
"passive  instructor."  He  said. 

For  me  the  first  part  was  to  learn  who  these  guys 
were,  and  how  to  deal  with  where  their  heads  were.  I 
was  trying  to  figure  out  how  I  could  contribute  to 
what  they  were  involved  in.  I  felt  I  was  essentially 
support  personnel.  But  Bob  and  Jim  didn't  agree  to 
that  kind  of  role  ....  Eventually  we  decided  to  turn 
our  heads  to  specific  kinds  of  projects.  And  we  got 
very  close  to  carrying  some  of  them  off  .  .  .  for 
example  the  sensory  experiments,  particularly  com- 
bining the  Ganz  field  with  the  anechoic  chamber 
....  The  whole  process  was  such  an  interactive 
process  that  it's  difficult  to  sort  out  any  one  person's 
contribution. 


don't  understand  a  line,  but  I  know  damn  well  he 
does  .... 

Wortz  indicated  that,  although  the  collaboration  at  a 
certain  point  became  "non-goal-oriented,"  it  might— had 
Turrell  not  opted  out— have  issued  in  something  con- 
crete. He  said  at  first,  "What  we  learned  has  mostly  to 
do  with  our  personal  development.  Whether  there  are 
any  other  fruits  beyond  ourselves  remains  to  be 
seen  .  .  .  ."  But  he  later  stated,  "I  really  am  convinced 
that  if  this  problem  [between  Irwin  and  Turrell]  hadn't 
happened,  it  would  have  matured  into  some  sort  of 
specific,  concrete  product."  He  went  on  to  speculate 
about  artistic  collaboration  in  general. 

People  like  myself  are  continually  involved  in  cooper- 
ating in  all  sorts  of  research,  design,  etc.  In  fact  we  do 
almost  nothing  individually,  because  one  person  just 
isn't  capable  of  handling  these  problems  himself.  Now 
if  art  moves  to  the  level  of  complexity  that  my  field 
has  attained,  I  think  there's  a  pretty  good  chance  that 
artists  can  work  together  similarly.  If  it  doesn't  move 
to  that  level  of  complexity,  I  don't  think  there's  any 
reason  for  that  collaboration  [among  artists]  to 
occur. 

The  fundamental  purpose  of  our  research  was  really 
twofold.  We  were  doing  things  that  were  providing  us 
with  some  new  insights  into  ourselves  and  perception, 
and  also  providing  us  with  insights  about  how  we 
could  work  with  each  other.  The  business  of  working 
with  each  other  came  along  very  nicely,  and  I  still 
have  that  kind  of  relationship  with  Jim  and  Bob 
individually. 


Wortz's  comments  about  the  difference  in  approach 
between  the  two  artists,  made  only  after  some  pressing 
by  us,  are  quite  revealing  of  the  dynamics  of  the  collab- 
oration: 

Bob  approached  information  differently  than  Jim  or 
myself.  Jim  and  I  are  primarily  information  sops.  Bob 
withholds  information.  He  keeps  the  information  at  a 
distance,  which  is  interesting,  because  he  would  arrive 
at  the  same  observations  and  the  same  set  of  conclu- 
sions by  holding  off  information.  It  was  a  very 
effective  technique.  Jim  and  I  would  sop  it  all 

up 

We  tried  all  kinds  of  things.  We  tried  [with  the  UCLA 
anechoic  chamber]  to  find  out  what  occurs  when 
individuals  isolate  themselves  from  sensory  input  and 
have  to  look  inward.  From  what  I  know  of  Bob's 
early  experience  with  painting,  sitting  for  years 
looking  at  lines,  I'm  pretty  well  convinced  that  this 
sensory  deprivation  is  what  he  was  engaged  in.  I'm 
firmly  and  one  hundred  per  cent  convinced  that  Bob 
understands  a  line.  I've  come  to  this  .  .  .  over  a  long 
time,  and  I've  learned  how  he  understands  a  line.  I 


The  artists  both  talked  with  us  during  the  same  period 

(September,  1970)  as  Wortz.  Irwin  said. 

All  this  kind  of  information  has  very  strange  social 
connotations.  You  find  yourself  not  telling  everyone 
about  it,  because  a  lot  of  people  look  at  you  like 
you've  dropped  your  cookies.  It's  not  a  verbal  experi- 
ence ....  Wortz  and  I  operate  out  of  common 
experience.  We  would  do  various  experiments  to- 
gether, and  then  begin  to  talk  about  them  afterward. 
But  when  you  spend  this  long  playing  with  non-verbal 
forms,  it  gets  hard  to  talk.  You  don't  have  a  desire  to 
talk  about  it.  It  doesn't  work,  and  it  doesn't  feel 
right. 

In  response  to  a  question  about  their  abandoning  the 
idea  of  building  an  environment,  Irwin  said,  "There  was 
doubt  about  it  from  the  very  beginning.  But  the  thing 
that  stopped  it  was  Turrell's  abdicating." 

About  the  collaboration  in  general,  he  said: 

Most  often,  I  didn't  know  who  really  came  up  with 
an  idea,  or  who  did  what.  So  when  one  person  drop- 
ped out,  we  couldn't  really  proceed  in  the  same 


140 


line  ....  But  I  feel  extremely  accomplished  for 
having  entered  into  the  project.  I  learned  a  lot  about 
how  people  handle  information;  what  defines  the 
state  of  consciousness  .... 

The  areas  of  extended  perceptual  research  we  got  into 
have  to  do  with  the  ability  to  handle  information  in 
non-physical  symbols  ....  So  how  does  man  deal 
with  this?  What  are  the  states  of  consciousness  that 
allow  him  to  function  in  this  more  elaborate  way? 
That's  where  we  are. 

Turrell's  comments,  after  more  than  a  year  had  passed 
since  he  had  walked  away  from  the  three-way  inter- 
change, were  quite  different  from  those  of  Wortz  and 
Irwin.  Often  his  statements  seem  immensely  distanced 
from  the  issues  at  hand,  and  reveal  as  much  about  the 
evolution  of  his  thinking  over  the  last  year  as  about  his 
role  or  approach  during  the  time  of  the  collaboration. 
Fragments  of  his  responses  to  various  questions  about 
the  project  are  as  follows: 

I  don't  know  that  anything  really  startling  came  out 
of  the  whole  thing  ....  I  sometimes  feel  I've  found 
some  things  out,  but  they  don't  apply  to  anyone  else 
unless  they  come  to  them  in  the  same  way  .... 

If  either  art  or  technology  becomes  a  religion,  maybe 
this  stuff  will  start  getting  more  exciting.  There's  got 
to  be  an  Art  and  Technology  Christ .... 

I  have  found  out  [largely  through  the  collaboration] 
that  you  can  order  people's  experience.  There's  really 
a  lot  that  you  could  control  in  making  people  con- 
front something  .... 

You  could  make  this  thing  [A  &  T]  historically 
significant  if  you  want  to.  I  have  the  feeling  that 
whatever  is  happening  here  is  a  symptom  of  some- 
thing that's  going  on— but  I  think— I  hope— it's  going 
to  be  vastly  overshadowed  by  the  thrust  of  the  things 
going  on  independently. 

We're  going  to  have  to  work  through  this  time  of  ego, 
and  of  separating  artists  from  all  those  around 
them  ....  We're  very  involved  in  our  roles  as  individ- 
uals right  now.  The  thing  that  happens  with  technol- 
ogy, or  [something  like]  the  Manhattan  Project ...  in 
which  people  put  their  energies  into  a  cause  where 
they  have  to  forget  themselves  ....  People  are  afraid 
to  dissolve  themselves  into  any  sort  of  human  cosmic 
consciousness  ....  We're  standing  next  to  a  swim- 
ming pool  a  little  bit  frightened  about  jumping  in. 
But  everyone's  going  to  get  pushed  in,  or  jump  in 
finally.  It  doesn't  make  any  difference  which.  There 
are  forces  which  are  about  to  push  us  in. 

The  scientist  has  reserved  the  universe  of  the  un- 


known as  his  place.  What  the  artist  has  to  reveal 
seems  to  be  a  different  order— but  it  probably  isn't,  in 
the  end. 

The  only  reply  Turrell  made  to  the  question  as  to  why 
he  had  decided  not  to  continue  working  with  Irwin  was, 
[I  had  to  get  away  from]  all  ideas  of  ambitions  and 
PR  and  constructing  yourself  in  the  second  derivative, 
feeding  back  things,  so  you're  watching  yourself  in 
this  very  peculiar  mirror  .  .  .  very  good  for  the  head. 
Trying  to  maintain  any  sense  of  vanity,  and  looking 
at  that,  was  hard  ....  I  decided  all  that  didn't  seem 
necessary. 

Replying  to  a  question  about  his  view  of  the  success  or 
failure  of  some  of  his  experiments,  particularly  with 
UCLA  students,  he  said,  "One  of  the  surprises  was  to 
find  that  the  things  you're  setting  up  aren't  seen  by 
other  people  in  the  same  way.  That's  all."  (Irwin,  re- 
sponding to  the  same  question,  said,  "We  learned  that 
the  information  we  were  interested  in  was  not  that 
obscure— anyone  could  get  it.  I  think  it  had  a  similar 
effect  on  them  [the  subjects]  as  it  had  on  us.") 

Turrell  continued. 

All  of  this  is  very  Pavlovian.  You're  not  really  asking 
much  of  the  person,  or  yourself.  And  all  you  can 
watch  are  the  surface  responses.  People  were  often 
going  through  a  dance  with  you  ....  Then  [the 
project]  began  to  change,  and  move  into  sensory 
interaction,  where  the  senses  influence  one  another. 
And  then  into  alpha  conditioning,  which  is  sort  of 
taking  a  Pavlovian  approach  into  spirituality.  It  has 
no  end  .... 

Our  culture  is  going  through  a  strange  time— looking 
at  Eastern  thought— their  work  with  meditation,  their 
sense  of  the  body  and  mind  and  soul.  We're  approach- 
ing it  through  psychology.  We're  very  physical.  When 
we  want  to  go  into  the  universe,  we  can't  look  at  a 
rock,  like  the  Japanese.  We  have  to  actually  go  to  the 
moon.  We're  so  literal.  We  totally  ignore  the  Eastern 
way.  There  are  actually  meditative  sciences,  or 
sciences  of  the  soul.  We  have  devices,  sensors,  alpha 
conditioning  machines.  The  machines  are  just  mani- 
fested thought.  Technology  isn't  anything  outside 
us  ....  We  just  go  about  it  very  clumsily  and  very 
wastefully.  Because  we  have  to  actually  make  all 
these  devices,  we  have  Xogo  to  the  moon,  we  can't 
see  the  cosmos  in  a  rock,  and  we  can't  meditate 
without  having  this  thing  strapped  on  us. 

After  August,  1969,  at  the  point  when  Turrell  resigned 
his  commitment,  an  important  involvement  continued 
between  Wortz  and  Irwin  toward  a  specific  new  goal 
(among  other  involvements)— the  First  National  Sympos- 
ium on  Habitability,  which  sprang  directly  from  the 


141 


A&T 


personal  connections  instigated  by  A  &  T.  In  the  sum- 
mer of  1969,  Dr.  Wortz  was  asked  by  NASA  to  consider 
the  problem  of  formulating  a  new  approach  to  certain 
areas  of  research  having  to  do  with  "habitability."  Wortz 
arranged  a  meeting  at  Garrett  with  some  colleagues  in 
various  fields  of  scientific  research,  and  asked  both  Irwin 
and  Turrell  to  sit  in  on  the  meeting.  According  to  Irwin, 
he  and  Turrell  "corrupted  the  meeting.  They  started  out 
by  trying  to  define  the  word  'habitability.'  NASA's 
projections  of  what  this  meant  seemed  incredibly  limited 
to  us.  Our  definition  of  habitability  completely  altered 
the  premise  they  were  assuming.  We  broadened  the 
term."  (After  this  initial  session,  Turrell  was  no  longer 
involved.) 

The  details  of  the  process  of  determining  the  format  and 
selecting  participants  to  attend  and  present  papers  at  the 
Symposium,  which  was  organized  in  great  part  by  Wortz, 
are  much  too  complex  to  recount  here.  It  took  place  in 
Venice,  California  from  May  1 1-14,  1970.  The  following 
Is  an  excerpt  from  a  letter  sent  to  prospective  partici- 
pants by  Wortz  in  November,  1969: 

The  symposium  will  be  concerned  with  'habitability' 
as  a  general  phenomenon  influencing  the  planning 
and  design  of  undersea  vehicles  and  stations,  lunar 
bases,  space  stations,  spacecraft,  terrestrial  vehicles 
and  structures,  and  urban  settlements.  The  sympos- 
ium will  probe  our  current  understanding  of  the 
concept  of  habitability;  the  factors  which  influence 
the  quality  of  life  associated  with  various  environ- 
ments; the  need  for  and  characteristics  of  habitability 
criteria;  the  planning  and  design  of  a  'habitable' 
environment;  and  will  further  seek  to  develop  testable 
hypotheses  relevant  to  this  subject. 

The  speakers  and  panelists  finally  involved  in  the  sym- 
posium were  drawn  from  widely  disparate  professions. 
The  list  of  speakers  is  as  follows: 

Dr.  Willis  W.  Harmon,  Director,  Educational  Policy 
Research,  Stanford  Research  Center,  Menlo  Park, 
California 

Dr.  Kiyoshi  Izumi,  Architect  Planner,  Chairman, 
Human  Information  and  Ecology  Program,  University 
of  Saskatchewan,  Regina,  Canada 

Dr.  William  Larson,  Chairman,  Division  for  Behavioral 
Sciences,  California  Polytechnic  College  at  Pomona, 
Pomona,  California 

Dr.  Shashi  K.  Pande,  Department  of  Psychiatry,  John 
Hopkins  University,  Medical  School,  Baltimore, 
Maryland 

Dr.  Stan  Deutsch,  Chief,  Man  Systems  Integration 
Branch,  Biotechnology  and  Human  Research  Di- 
vision, National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administra- 
tion, Washington,  D.C. 


Dr.  William  Haythorn,  Department  of  Psychology, 
Florida  State  University,  Tallahassee,  Florida 

Dr.  Loren  Carlson,  Chairman,  Basic  Medical  Sciences, 
School  of  Medicine,  University  of  California,  Davis, 
California 

Dr.  Eric  Gunderson,  Navy  Medical  Neuropsychiatric 
Research  Unit,  San  Diego,  California 

Mr.  Allen  Louviere,  Chief,  Systems  Support  Branch, 
Manned  Spacecraft  Center,  National  Aeronautics  and 
Space  Administration,  Houston,  Texas 

Dr.  David  Nowlis,  Consultant  on  Habitability, 
Garrett/Ai Research,  Los  Angeles  California 

Dr.  Ronald  0.  Loveridge,  Department  of  Political 
Science,  University  of  California,  Riverside,  California 

Dr.  Seymour  I.  Schwartz,  Department  of  Systems 
Engineering,  University  of  Southern  California,  Los 
Angeles,  California 

Mr.  Morton  Hoppenfeld,  Director  of  Planning  & 
Design,  Rouse  Corporation,  Columbia,  Maryland 

The  panelists  were  Dr.  Art  Atkisson,  University  of 
Texas,  School  of  Public  Health;  Dr.  Jelliff  Carr,  Director 
of  Life  Sciences,  FASEB;  Dr.  Morton  Leeds,  Director 
Plans  and  Programs,  HUD;  Robert  Irwin,  Artist;  Dr.  Ted 
Marton,  General  Electric;  Dr.  Thaddeus  Glen,  University 
of  Toledo;  Dr.  Dave  Martin,  University  of  Texas,  School 
of  Public  Health,  Dr.  Richard  Haines,  NASA/Ames 
Research  Center;  Dr.  William  Soskin,  U.C.  Berkeley;  Dr. 
George  Rand,  Columbia  University;  Dr.  Robert  Ornstein, 
Langely  Porter  Institute;  Dr.  Edward  Wortz,  Garrett 
Corporation;  Dr.  Melvin  Zeisfein,  Franklin  Institute. 

The  event  was  extraordinary  in  several  respects.  Its 
physical  environment,  designed  by  Irwin,  along  with 
artist  Larry  bell  and  architect  Frank  Gehry,  distin- 
guished it  dramatically  from  other  conventions  of  its 
kind.  It  was  in  great  part  simply  owing  to  the  psycholog- 
ical conditions  achieved  by  the  special  surroundings  that 
the  event  became  the  tense  and  complex  encounter 
session  that  it  did.  The  space  in  which  the  morning 
sessions  took  place— organized  each  day  so  that  four 
speakers  would  discuss  their  previously  submitted 
papers,  before  four  panelists  would  then  discuss  them— 
was  located  in  a  large,  studio-like  room  on  Market 
Street,  near  the  sea.  The  speakers  and  panelists  sat  in  the 
middle  of  the  room,  in  two  rows  facing  each  other; 
above  them  were  two  tinted  skylights.  On  either  side  of 
the  central  platform  were  rows  of  low,  bleacher-like 
seats,  made  of  chunks  of  corrugated  cardboard;  this 
seating  arrangement  was  designed  by  Frank  Gehry.  On 


142 


the  side  of  the  large  white  room  which  faced  Market 
Street,  Bob,  on  the  first  day  of  the  Symposium,  set  up 
large,  white  cardboard  cylinders,  floor-to-ceiling;  the 
participants  and  audience  entered  from  a  smalt  doorway 
in  the  rear.  On  the  second  day,  the  white  cylinders  were 
replaced  by  a  large  plastic  tarp,  letting  in  light  from 
outside,  but  not  wholly  transparent;  and  on  the  third 
day,  the  entire  side  of  the  room  facing  Market  Street  was 
opened  up. 

A  combination  of  subtle  psychological  factors  were 
brought  to  play  on  the  dynamics  of  the  Symposium 
sheerly  by  virtue  of  its  environment:  for  example,  the 


low  seats  were  rather  uncomfortable— intentionally  so, 
according  to  Irwin— making  it  impossible  for  the  audi- 
ence to  relax  physically.  Nor  was  the  space  insulated 
from  street  noise,  so  it  was  often  difficult  to  hear  what 
the  speakers  were  saying;  again.  Bob  felt  this  was  a 
positive  factor,  forcing  concentration  on  the  proceed- 
ings. 

At  the  outset  of  the  Symposium,  one  sensed  a  definite 
psychological  tension  between  what  Dr.  Wortz  character- 
ized as  the  "square"  and  "hip"  participants— this  dualism 
gradually  gave  way  to  other  factional  conflicts,  and 
eventually  a  whole  set  of  unpredictable  positive  situa- 
tions emerged  in  the  dynamics  of  both  the  group  as  a 
whole  and  the  discussion  sub-groups,  and  in  the  nature 
of  the  information  exchanged.  Irwin  commented  later. 


"I  was  interested  in  it  as  an  event.  It  was  a  chance  to 
exercise  some  things  I  was  personally  curious  about, 
directly  in  relationship  to  the  A  &  T  project  ....  It 
really  worked.  What  happened  with  the  afternoon 
discussion  groups  was  fantastic;  really  heady  kinds  of 
information." 

It  is  not  possible  here  to  be  more  explicit  about  the 
circumstances  and  results  of  this  Symposium;  however, 
much  of  the  proceedings  were  recorded  and  have  been 
published  by  the  Garrett  Corporation,  and  a  Second 
National  Symposium  on  Habitability  is  currently  being 
organized. 

Simultaneously  with  their  preparations  for  the  Sympos- 
ium, and  since  that  time.  Dr.  Wortz  and  Irwin  have 


143 


Donald  Judd 

Born  Excelsior  Springs,  IVIissouri,  1928 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


continued  to  work  together  on  various  other  projects. 
Wortz  has  consulted  Irwin  on  several  occasions  in  con- 
nection with  his  researches  for  Garrett.  He  spoke  to  us  in 
September,  1970  about  Bob's  participation  in  an  under- 
taking contracted  by  NASA: 

Right  now  we're  establishing  some  criteria  for  a 
spacecraft.  Bob  has  helped  us  on  this  ....  We've 
looked  at  the  problems  of  providing  a  very  enriched 
environment.  Bob  is  very  Interested  in  the  arts  in- 
volved in  the  construction  of  things  ...  of  hot-rod- 
ding,  for  example,  as  a  very  artistic  endeavor .... 
Hot-rodders  will  massage  portions  of  the  machine 
that  no  one  will  ever  see,  just  because  it  feels  right. 
This  is  the  way  Bob  feels  about  art.  Everything  has  to 
feel  right.  He  was  thinking  that  portions  of  the 
spacecraft  should  be  designed  or  painted  to  have  an 
appropriate  suchness  for  their  function.  He's  designed 
us  a  little  oven.  So  we  have  the  first  tentative  art 
input  into  a  spacecraft. 

Wortz  spoke  about  yet  another— rather  mysterious— pro- 
ject in  the  works  between  himself  and  Irwin: 

There's  a  thing  Bob  and  I  would  like  to  try.  Right 
now  it's  just  an  experience,  but  if  It  could  be  made 
Into  a  thing  it  would  be  nice.  If  it  works  it  will 
produce  an  emotional  response  which  you  might  be 
surprised  about.  It  has  to  do  with  the  technique  of 
producing  a  loving  response  in  someone. 

(Irwin  later  "demonstrated"  the  technique  to  JL  and 
MT;  it  does  indeed  work,  and  has  to  do  with  pulling 
people  or  objects  into  one's  immediate  circle  of  psycho- 
logical perception,  in  a  sense  as  an  extension  of  oneself.) 

Dr.  Wortz  and  Bob  Irwin  have  recently  indicated  to  us 
their  interest  in  realizing  an  environmental  art  work  of 
the  kind  originally  outlined,  combining  an  anechoic 
chamber  with  a  Ganz  field.  Turrell's  involvement  in  such 
an  undertaking  is  unknown  at  this  point. 

Jane  Livingston 


MT  described  A  &  T  to  Don  Judd  in  his  New  York 
studio  in  April,  1969.  Judd  indicated  little  interest  in 
collaboration  perse,  but  stated  his  desire  for  a  facility 
which  could  cast  metal  sculptures  for  him,  and  asked  for 
literature  on  Kaiser  and  other  companies.  The  following 
correspondence  occurred  between  May  and  August, 
1969: 

Mays,  1969 

Maurice  Tuchman:  I  have  considered  the  Kaiser 

aluminum  casting  project  and  am  interested  in  it. 

Don  Judd 

May  19,  1969 

Dear  Don  Judd, 

It  is  interesting  to  me  that  you  are  interested  in 

Kaiser  aluminum  casting.  However,  we  have  never  had 

Kaiser  Aluminum  as  a  Patron  Sponsor.  We  have  had 

and  continue  to  have  Kaiser  Steel  as  a  Patron  Sponsor 

and  this  corporation  is  still  available. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Maurice  Tuchman 

May  22,  1969 

Dear  Mr.  Tuchman: 

Thank  you  for  your  letter  to  Don  Judd  of  May  19. 

Don  Judd  is  interested  in  Kaiser  Steel  as  a  Patron 

Sponsor.  I  mistakenly  wrote  "aluminum".  Apologies. 

Sincerely, 

Dudley  Del  Balso 

for  Don  Judd 

May  27, 1969 
Dear  Dudley  Del  Balso, 

Thank  you  for  your  letter  of  May  22  to  Maurice 
Tuchman.  We  are  currently  considering  three  propos- 
als for  Kaiser  Steel  Corporation.  We  would  be  inter- 
ested in  learning  the  nature  of  Don  Judd's  proposal  so 
that  we  can  move  on  it  in  the  event  that  Kaiser 
remains  available. 
Very  truly  yours, 
Betty  Asher 


June  19, 1969 

Betty  Asher:  Regarding  your  letter  of  May  27,  I  am 

interested  in  casting  steel  in  rectangular  shapes.  What 

are  the  possibilities? 

Don  Judd 

Julys,  1969 

Dear  Don, 

Electronic  Enclosures  Division  of  Wyle  Labs  had 

recently  been  made  available  to  us.  We  would  be  glad 

to  send  you  a  ticket  to  fly  out  and  see  it.  Their  most 

interesting  piece  of  equipment  is  the  Wiedemann  ST 

tape  controlled  turret  punch  press. 


Ampex,  IBM,  Norris  (porcelain  enamel  and  metal 


Aleksandra  Kasuba 
Born  Lithuania,  1923 
Resident  New  York  City 


144 


stamping),  Container  Corporation  and  Rand  Corpor- 
ation are  still  available. 
Sincerely, 
Hal  Glicksman 

July  10,  1969 

Hal:  I  have  received  your  letter  and  enclosures.  Norris 

sounds  especially  interesting,  but  I  can't  make  a 

decision  now.  I  will  be  in  California  the  end  of 

September  and  will  be  in  touch  then. 

Don 

July  22,  1969 

Hal  Glicksman:  Don  Judd  has  asked  me  to  write  you 

again  about  his  Interest  in  the  Norris  project.  It  is 

impossible  for  him  to  come  to  California  before  the 

end  of  September  however. 

IVlrs.  Dudley  Del  Balso 

for  Don  Judd 

Judd  did  not  contact  us  while  in  California  in  Septem- 
ber, 1969  and  we  could  not  locate  him. 


In  August,  1970,  Aleksandra  Kasuba  sent  us  two  project 
proposals: 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PROJECT  #1 

The  Spectrum  Environment 

The  Spectrum  Environment  consists  of  seven  units, 
each  measuring  8'  x  8'  x  12'  long,  assembled  into  one 
linear  walk-through  ensemble.  Each  unit  is  made  of 
translucent  color  material,  intensely  lit  on  all  sides 
from  the  outside.  The  units  are  interconnected  by 
22"  wide  and  7'  high  doorways  whose  openings  are 
aligned  to  present  a  diminishing  view  of  the  Spectrum 
to  visitors  as  they  walk  into  and  through  the  Environ- 
ment. Within  each  of  the  six  spectral  color  units  one 
hears  its  specific  vibration— the  sound  of  green, 
yellow,  orange,  red,  purple,  or  blue.  In  the  center  of 
each  spectral  color  unit,  through  an  opening  in  the 
ceiling,  a  mild  air  stream  carries  in  a  related  color 
odor  and  temperature.  The  seventh  unit,  combining 
all  that  has  been  passed  through,  is  lit  with  intense 
white  light,  filled  with  the  combined  color  sounds, 
each  one  octave  higher,  has  no  odor,  and  has  normal 
temperature. 

Visitors  passing  through  the  Spectrum  Environment 
would  be  totally  engulfed  by  one  color  at  a  time,  and 
experience  the  different  effects  of  each  with  four  of 
their  senses.  [1] 

DESCRIPTION  OF  PR0JECT#2 

The  shells  housing  the  element  presentations  are  4 
interconnected  half-spheres,  each  24  feet  in  diameter 
at  the  base.  The  interiors  are  lit  by  sunken  lights 
moving  around  the  perimeter  of  the  floor  clockwise 
at  12"  per  minute. 

The  4  elements— earth,  fire,  water  and  air— are  each 
placed  in  one  of  the  shells  and  presented  in  their 
common  forms  of  behavior. 


The  environment  is  to  deepen  awareness  of  the  simple 
daily  presences  that  have  not  changed  through  millen- 
nia. To  emphasize  their  relationship  to  man,  the 
natural  processes  are  designed  to  intensify  their 
activity  whenever  man  is  present.  Thus,  in  terms  of 
actions,  space  and  time— the  factor  that  brings  about 
the  interplay— is  made  perceptible  and  can  be  experi- 
enced as  a  vital  force  and  not  as  an  empty  gap.  [2] 


145 


A&T 


M 


n 


r'w-    —^--r 1-^^ 

r^" 

-^1 


!Z] 


Ellsworth  Kelly 

Born  Newburgh,  New  York,  1925 
Resident  New  York  City 


Philip  King 

Born  Tunis,  North  Africa,  1934 
Resident  London 


146 


MTsaw  Elsworth  Kelly  in  the  fall  of  1968  and  de- 
scribed various  available  companies,  particularly  manufac- 
turing firms  that  could  be  used  for  sculpture  projects. 
Kelly  said  that  he  was  more  interested  in  working  with  a 
computer  corporation  than  in  making  sculptures.  He 
described  his  paintings  of  the  early  50s,  made  in  Paris,  as 
responses  to  the  random  play  of  lights  on  the  Seine;  he 
indicated  that  the  systems  of  black  and  white  configur- 
ations on  these  canvases  might  be  analysed  and  permu- 
tated  by  use  of  a  computer.  He  felt  that  this  would  be  an 
important  project  to  pursue  but  that  his  other  commit- 
ments would  prevent  his  serious  involvement  for  at  least 
two  years. 


Philip  King  flew  from  England  to  visit  a  number  of 
companies  in  which  he  expressed  interest  after  reading 
literature  we  had  sent  him.  Hal  Glicksman  took  him  to 
see  Wyle  Laboratories,  Norris  Industries,  Kaiser  Steel 
Corporation  and  American  Cement,  after  which  he 
indicated  that  he  considered  American  Cement  to  be  the 
only  feasible  location  for  a  collaborative  effort.  He 
found  Norris'  steel  forming  techniques  too  restrictive; 
hydraulic  press  methods  have  limited  size  capability  and 
necessitate  expensive  tooling  processes.  Kaiser's  Fontana 
plant  is  mainly  a  steel  rolling  mill  with  only  limited 
fabrication  facilities,  and  he  found  nothing  to  inspire 
him  at  Wyle. 

At  American  Cement  he  wanted  to  execute  a  work  on  a 
hill  behind  the  Riverside  Technical  Center.  As  he  ex- 
plained in  an  interview, 

I  could  conceive  of  being  able  to  spray  a  particular 
kind  of  colored  cement  onto  the  hill  from  an  air- 
plane. I'd  like  to  be  able  to  introduce  a  kind  of  spray 
technique  where  you  could  lay  down  a  dry  powder  of 
cement  and  then  spray  water  over  it  in  order  to 
harden  the  cement  to  set  in  a  consistency  which 
would  then,  with  the  action  of  rain,  dissolve  and 
re-form  at  a  different  level  according  to  time;  it 
would  eventually  disintegrate.  I  want  it  to  be  able  to 
be  destroyed,  to  change;  possibly  it  would  be  more 
beautiful  while  it's  being  destroyed.  When  I  make  a 
sculpture,  I  lay  myself  right  out.  This  is  sort  of 
experimental  for  me,  and  I'd  like  to  keep  it  as  experi- 
mental a  thing  all  the  way  through.  I  like  the  idea  but 
I  don't  know  if  I  can  get  into  it  philosophically  as  a 
work  of  art. 

In  addition  to  the  sprayed  cement,  King  wanted  to 
execute  a  number  of  cast  cement  objects  and  disperse 
them  also  on  the  hill.  Of  this  method  he  stated,  "I'd  also 
like  to  introduce  pre-cast  forming,  but  I'd  like  it  to  be 
functional,  to  help  prevent  the  kind  of  erosion  process; 
it's  sort  of  a  landscape  exercise  for  me,  in  color." 


After  returning  to  England,  King  wrote  us. 

After  much  deliberation  and  in  the  quiet  of  my 
London  home,  I  think  I  cannot  go  ahead  with  Ameri- 
can Cement.  The  project  which  I  outlined  briefly  on 
tape  was  too  much  an  attempt  on  my  part  to  fit  into 
a  situation  in  a  hurry  and  although  the  idea  has  a 
certain  appeal  for  me,  it  is  not  really  the  kind  of  thing 
I  want  to  be  deeply  involved  with.  The  limitation  of 
cement  as  a  material  does  not  give  me  the  kind  of 
flexibility  I  need  at  the  moment  in  an  extension  of 
my  own  work.  I  liked  the  people  there  enormously, 
and  the  atmosphere,  and  I  am  sorry  about  it. 


147 


R.  B.  Kitaj 

Born  Cleveland,  Ohio,  1932 
Resident  London 


A&T 


In  1967,  when  A&T  was  still  in  the  early  stages  of 
development,  MT  proposed  to  R.  B.  Kitaj  the  possibility 
of  working  with  an  industry.  Kitaj's  immediate  reaction 
was  to  suggest  executing  in  three  dimensions  an  idea  he 
had  been  planning  for  painting.  He  had  wanted  to  do 
"some  old-fashioned  paintings  about  the  kind  of  grey, 
haze-like,  dull  daylit,  Bohemian,  urban  atmosphere  you 
see  in  photos  of  places  like  studios  in  the  old  days  .  .  . 
Medardo  Rosso's  studio  [1]  ....  Brancusi's  studio  .... 
that  sort  of  thing."  Kitaj  had  been  intrigued  with  the 
reconstruction  of  Brancusi's  studio  in  Paris  Musee  de 
I'Art  Moderne  in  1964,  and  the  experience  served  as  a 
primary  impetus  for  the  idea. 

About  a  year  later,  in  August,  1968,  Kitaj  came  to  Los 
Angeles  during  a  teaching  stint  at  Berkeley,  to  visit 
Lockheed  Aircraft  Corporation  along  with  Los  Angeles 
artist  Robert  Irwin.  We  accompanied  the  two  artists  in 
touring  Lockheed's  Rye  Canyon  Aeronautics  Research 
facility  and  the  Burbank  Aircraft  construction  complex. 
On  the  way  to  Rye  Canyon,  Kitaj  elaborated  on  his 
initial  conception,  stating  that  he  wanted  to  create  the 
physical  situation  of  a  fictional  "modern  sculptor"— to 
reproduce,  in  a  sense,  his  studio  atmosphere  by  means  of 
a  series  of  visual  "clues."  The  space,  he  said,  would 
evoke  the  artist's  "complex,  ethical  presence"  not 
through  memorabilia  and  personal  artifacts  but  through 
the  objects— works  of  art  in  various  states  of  comple- 
tion—dispersed throughout  the  "studio."  Because  of  its 
emphasis  on  advanced  theoretical  research,  the  Rye 
Canyon  Center  was  obviously  not  suited  to  Kitaj  in 
terms  of  the  proposal  he  already  had  in  mind.  (Irwin,  on 
the  other  hand,  was  extremely  interested  in  the  research 
being  conducted  with  their  anechoic  and  sound  cham- 
bers, as  well  as  other  aspects  of  the  facility.) 


We  next  visited  the  Burbank  production  facility,  where 
Lockheed  was  then  developing  the  L-1011  commercial 
super-transport  plane.  We  were  introduced  to  a  man  who 
was  later  to  become  a  key  figure  in  the  project,  Robert 
Robillard,  leader  of  the  Lockheed  team  responsible  for 
the  interior  design  of  the  L-101 1  Tri-Star  jet,  and  general 
supervisor  in  charge  of  various  mock-up  operations, 
including  plastic,  sheet  metal,  fabric  and  carpentry 
shops.  After  an  exhaustive  tour  of  these  model-shop 
facilities  and  a  brief  look  at  additional  production-line 
processes,  Kitaj  was  satisfied  that  the  Burbank  complex 
had  appropriate  materials,  equipment  and  skilled  person- 
nel to  carry  out  his  scheme.  We  arranged,  in  agreement 
with  the  Lockheed  management,  that  after  several 
months  in  London,  he  would  return  to  Burbank  for  a 
prolonged  period  of  residence. 


148 


In  October,  he  wrote  to  his  contact  in  the  Public  Affairs 
office,  Don  Christiansen: 

R.  B.  Kitaj  in  transit  to  London,  September,  1968 

Among  the  few  themes  I  have  wanted  to  return  to 
through  the  years,  an  attraction  remains  with  me  for 
those  occasions,  those  contexts  (in  real  life)  where 
what  I  would  like  to  call  a  modernist  presence  has 
taken  shape,  is  finding,  pursuing  form,  germinating.  I 
mean  to  reproduce  some  of  those  conditions  by 
designing  a  fiction:  a  place,  a  working  space  ...  a 
studio,  so  to  speak,  where  a  convincing  and/or  extra- 
ordinary collection  or  conjunction  of  things  have 
been  made,  are  being  made  .  .  .  what  you  might  call 
art-things  rather  than  sculpture  .  .  .  food  for  the  mind 
at  any  rate,  embraced  by  a  human  presence— (the  man 
who  works  at  the  things  has  stepped  out  for 
awhile.)  . . . 

so— what  it  may  amount  to  is  a  room  .  .  .  perhaps  an 
unlikely  scale— maybe  ten  feet  square  or  smaller  with 
a  fifteen  feet  or  ninteen  feet  high  ceiling  or  skylight 
....  three  portable  walls,  a  ceiling,  a  floor— all  de- 
tachable and  all  to  be  designed  according  to  what 
(Lockheed)  can  make  available  in  terms  of  materials, 
artisans,  time,  energy  .  .  .  and  then— what  the  open- 
face  room  space  will  contain  .  .  .  not  clear  in  my  mind 
yet  but  the  issues  should  begin  to  resolve  at  my 
drawing  board  in  London.  In  any  case— various  works, 
some  standing  free,  some  placed  for  working  ...  in 
various  states  of  finish  and  development  and  size; 
maybe  some  twelve  pieces  invoking  an  intellectual 
range  and  time  span  (early  works)— an  uncommon 
stylistic  ambition.  From  what  I  saw  at  Lockheed— IVIr. 
Robillard's  mock-up  shop  might  carry  the  weight  of 
this  plan.  I  would  want  to  mock-up  some  models  in 
small  scale  at  first— like  small  stage  sets  and  I  might 
like  to  choose  from  whatever  we  make  together,  the 
things  which  will,  in  the  end,  go  into  the  space  .  .  . 
that  is  to  say  permutations  should  be  possible.  Your 
vacuum-forming  facilities  are  on  my  mind  and  I 
should  like  to  execute  a  few  of  the  works  in  plastic— 
the  final  room  space  and  the  works  it  embraces 
should  be  brought  into  a  considerable  visual  em- 
phasis .  .  .  coloristic  demands  of  a  high  order  should 
be  made  of  the  constituents  .  .  .  spray  work  and 
anodizing  and  the  natural  values  of  materials.  I  should 
like  to  introduce  the  atmosphere  of  a  working  place 
without  going  into  literary  detail.  And  in  the  end  I 
want  to  design  something  that  will  be  as  complex  as 
experience  is  complex  and  ultimately  quite  simple. 

Early  in  February,  1969,  Kitaj  arrived  in  Los  Angeles.  In 
the  first  month  of  collaboration  the  artist  was  confront- 
ed by  an  overwhelming  maze  of  bureaucratic  procedures. 
Despite  Lockheed's  attempt  to  accommodate  the  artist's 
needs  and  to  maintain  some  flexibility  in  their  normally 


complicated  system,  Kitaj  found  it  increasingly  frustra- 
ting to  find  out  how  to  expedite  his  needs.  As  he  later 
explained  in  a  letter. 

There  was  an  air  of  trying  to  be  helpful  .  .  .  some- 
times genuine,  sometimes  false  among  the  brass  and 
management  with  an  undercurrent  of  reluctance  to  go 
along  with  this  highly  unorthodox  intrusion,  but  it 
did  and  still  does  seem  mad,  in  my  terms,  to  imagine 
that  one's  poetic  references  could  thrive  with  any 
ease  in  the  very  thin  air  of  Big  Business  and  Big 
Business  was  what  the  daily  regime  spelled  out  in  no 
uncertain  terms.  Latterday  Chaplinesque  semi- 
heroics  .... 

After  weeks  of  futile  attempts  to  actually  begin  working, 
it  was  Robillard  who  came  to  the  rescue  of  the  artist,  cut 
through  the  organizational  red  tape  of  working  proce- 
dures (purchase  order  numbers,  supervisory  control  over 
the  workmen  assisting  Kitaj,  etc.)  and  set  the  operation 
in  motion.  Although  Robillard  had  no  direct  participa- 
tion in  the  planning  or  modification  of  the  project,  his 
respected  and  important  position  in  the  company 
allowed  him  to  settle  the  logistical  problems.  Robillard's 
feeling  was,  as  he  said  to  the  New  York  Times,  "Let's 
give  him  what  he  wants  and  get  him  out." 

One  of  the  most  interesting  aspects  of  Kitaj's  experience 
at  Lockheed  was  the  evolution  of  the  original  "studio" 
idea— partially  reflecting  changes  in  his  own  thinking 
before  he  even  arrived  at  the  site,  but  also  as  a  direct 
result  of  circumstances  he  confronted  at  Lockheed.  In 
January,  1969,  while  still  in  London,  he  had  written  to 
Christiansen  asking  him  to  arrange  for  a  technician  to 
oversee  the  project  from  beginning  to  end.  He  added, 
"My  ideas  are  changing  every  day  and  will  be  condi- 
tioned by  what  I  will  confront  in  beautiful  downtown 
Burbank  ...  as  far  as  I  can  tell  it  will  be  a  matter  of 
making  a  number  of  things  and  bringing  them  together 
in  a  conjunction  .  .  ."  This  statement,  in  the  way  of  a 
casual  aside,  anticipated  precisely  the  turn  of  events  in 
the  weeks  to  come.  During  the  period  before  he  arrived 
at  Lockheed,  Kitaj  began  to  feel  less  and  less  inclined  to 
follow  through  with  his  idea  for  a  "studio,"  primarily 
because  as  he  later  wrote, 

I  found  it  too  attractive  to  do  what  /  want  to  do 
rather  than  to  try  to  imagine  what  someone  else 
would  do.  And  ultimately  perhaps  boring  to  imagine 
what  someone  else  would  do  ...  I  didn't  really  like 
studios  that  much,  or  artistic  situations  in  real  life 
anyway  and  then  I  became  bemused  with  the  possibil- 
ity of  having  all  kinds  of  different  things  made  in 
those  short  two  months— things  which  might  be 
brought  together  in  some  more  interesting  way— some 
unique  visual  literary  and  political  way  .  .  .  after  the 
fact  of  their  making. 

For  some  time  Kitaj  had  been  "obsessed"  (as  he  put  it) 


149 


A&T 


with  imagery  related  to  the  Industrial  Revolution.  He 
studied  and  collected  old  photographs  and  engravings 
depicting  industrial  landscapes  of  the  Victorian  era,  and 
had  planned  to  execute  paintings  on  this  theme.  He  later 
explained  his  fascination  with  this  period  by  comparing 
it  with  Roy  Lichtenstein's  interest  in  the  moderne  style 
of  the  1930's.  While  still  in  London,  Kitaj  executed 
some  sketches  drawn  in  part  from  source  material  like 


illustrations  in  Samuel  Smiles'  Lives  of  the  Engineers  and 
Francis  Klingender's/4rf  anty  tiie  Industrial  Revolution. 

These  drawings  contain  the  basis  for  most  of  the  large 
objects  eventually  constructed  at  Lockheed.  One  draw- 
ing [2]  depicts  a  tunnel  with  a  shaft  of  light  penetrating 
to  the  floor,  a  motif  which  had  been  of  special  interest 
to  Kitaj  for  some  years.  (He  lives  near  London's  Science 


m 


r-i: 


-^ 


150 


Museum  which  houses  a  full-size  labyrinthine  coal  mine 
reconstruction— a  favorite  visiting  place  of  his  young 
son.)  It  was  the  quality  of  light— a  cylindrical  body  of 
illumination— which  particularly  intrigued  Kitaj  and 
which  he  had  encountered  in  numerous  Victorian 
illustrations  of  coal  mines  such  as  J.  C.  Bourne's  Kilsby 
Tunnel,  1837,  reproduced  in  Klingender.  [3]  He  con- 
structed such  a  coal  tunnel  at  Lockheed  [4]  ;  it  measures 
about  four  feet  high  and  six  feet  long,  and  is  complete 
with  tracks  and  box  car;  the  shaft  of  light  becomes  an 
almost  solid  volume,  rendering  an  eerie,  spectral  atmos- 
phere. A  second  drawing  [5]  consists  of  a  backdrop  of 


151 


A&T 


152 


153 


A&T 


,^ 


1 


rectangles  in  a  grid  configuration,  with  varying  surface 
textures.  This  motif  evolved  at  Lockheed  into  a  mural- 
like screen  [6]  titled  Chelsea  Reach  (First  Version  for 
J.A.  Mc.N.W.).  Kitaj  said  of  it. 

In  fact  this  is  the  first  manifestation  of  an  idea  I  have 
wanted  to  execute  for  a  long  while.  I  got  interested  in 
fabrics  and  textiles  when  I  was  in  Berkeley  [in  1968] . 
Maybe  it  had  something  to  do  with  exposure  to 
Oriental  stuffs  that  I  hadn't  had  before.  I  conceived 
of  a  large  wall  hanging  or  a  large  wall  screen  which 
would  be  completely  abstract— rather  decorative,  and 
it  would  be  a  collection  of  fabrics  which  would  be 
separated  on  the  tatami  principle— you  know,  that 
you  see  on  Japanese  floors,  divided  by  slatting  and 
pinned  down  in  that  way  so  that  you  see  a  wonderful 
sequential  floor  situation.  Well,  I  wanted  to  take  that 
principle  onto  the  wall.  I  actually  had  begun  to 
collect  some  strange  fabrics,  some  ancient  ones,  old 
ones,  and  some  that  were  really  cruddy,  that  came 
out  of  poor  situations.  That's  where  this  idea  came 
from.  I  just  happened  here  to  use  airplane  fabrics, 
aircraft  seating  fabrics.  I  wanted  to  call  that  screen 
piece  Chelsea  Reach  after  Whistler's  usage  of  that  title 
because  he  was  one  of  the  original  Western  artists 
who  hooked  onto  chinoiserie,  and  the  possibility  of 
employing  that.  I  don't  want  to  leave  it  just  as  a 
backdrop;  I  want  it  to  be  a  piece  in  some  light. 


154 


'^i 


r.f.i 

h 


I 


155 


A&T 


Another  motif  which  occurs  in  the  second  preliminary 
drawing  [5] ,  and  again  in  the  third  drawing  [7] ,  is  that 
of  an  industrial  smoke  stack  or  chimney,  a  familiar 
object  of  the  Victorian  landscape.  Three  such  towers, 
each  twelve  feet  high  and  each  with  a  different  surface 
pattern  and  impediment,  were  eventually  constructed  at 


Lockheed.  They  were  fabricated  by  a  vacuum-forming 
process  and  were  the  largest  forms  ever  attempted  by  the 
Lockheed  shop  using  that  method.  [8]  The  third  draw- 
ing [7]  also  formulates  the  basic  notion  for  the  main- 
entrance  archway  or  viaduct  which  was  designed  by 
computer  graphic  process  and  built  at  the  Lockheed 
plant.  [9]  The  other  large  component  [10]  in  the 
Lockheed  series,  which  does  not  appear  in  any  of  the 
preparatory  sketches,  derives  from  an  illustration  in 
Metius  Chappell's  British  Engineers  [11],  showing  a 
half-completed  lighthouse  project  under  construction. 
Kitaj  later  commented  that  he  liked  the  enigmatic 
quality  of  this  piece-the  fact  that  the  type  of  building  it 
represents  is  not  easily  identifiable  as  a  lighthouse,  but 
evokes  the  feeling  of  industrial  activity. 


156 


In  addition  to  these  large  structures,  Kitaj  also  produced 
a  series  of  vacuum-formed  medallions,  depicting  in  relief 
various  images  such  as  a  railroad  box  car  or  an  airplane 
panel  instrument  [12] ,  and  fabricated  out  of  multi- 
colored, marbleized  plastics  used  in  airline  interiors.  The 
idea  for  these  circular  medallions  derives  from  an  ob- 
scure historical  source;  they  refer  to  eighteenth  century 
industrial  trade  tokens  and  coins,  issued  by  some  British 
factories  to  commemorate  their  founding. 

From  the  beginning  Kitaj  was  interested  in  perhaps 
realizing  at  Lockheed  a  number  of  peripheral  projects 
which  he  had  begun  to  think  about  before  arriving  at 
Lockheed.  In  December,  1968,  he  had  written  to  Don 
Christiansen, 

.  .  .  There  are  one  or  two  things  you  could  do  for 
me  ...  .  could  you  dig  up  and  send  me  any  pictures 
of  how  Lockheed  began.  What  would  really  help 
would  be  photos  of  the  very  earliest  Lockheed 
workshops.  (Like  Henry  Ford  tinkering  with  his  first 
car  in  a  shed,  etc.)  .  .  .  also  photos  of  component 
parts  (whatever  is  not  secret),  modern  parts,  etc.  .  .  . 
perhaps  there  is  a  small  pile  of  literature  you  could 
Airmail  to  me.  I  am  also  interested  (as  a  side  issue)  in 
what  would  be  called  WASTE  .  .  .  waste  which  is 


fabrication  of  such  "sculptures,"  when  they  could  be 
picked  from  a  storage  shelf,  would  have  been  pointless. 

Consequently  the  studio  piece  was  channelled  into  a 
secondary  project,  the  production  of  the  book  titled 
Wings  (Recent  Sculpture  and  Buildings).  It  consists  of 
color  photographs  of  individual  airplane  parts  which  the 
artist  had  anodized,  chromeplated,  and  spray  painted  in 
bright  primary  colors.  The  "sculptures"  were  then 
arranged  against  scale-deceiving  or  neutral  backgrounds 
and  photographed  by  Malcolm  Lubliner.  Kitaj  had  the 
photographs  mounted  in  a  handsome  leatherbound  book 
(in  an  edition  of  five)  and  gave  each  one  an  ironic, 
humorous  and  literary  caption-title.  [13,  14,  15]  In  his 
original  conception  of  the  "artist's  studio"  piece,  which 
he  decided  not  to  make  at  Lockheed,  Kitaj  had  intended 
the  "studio"  to  have  certain  satirical  overtones— to  make 
a  kind  of  implied  statement  concerning  modernist  or 
formalist  sculpture,  using  a  fictitious  sculptor's  work  as 
the  agent  of  the  irony.  But  even  before  leaving  London 
it  had  occurred  to  him  that  "that  particular  irony  wasn't 
strong  enough  conceptually  to  carry  the  weight  of  this 
expensive  and  ambitious  collaboration."  The  book 
Wings,  then,  developed  as  the  most  suitable  means  for 
expressing  this  unique  complex  of  ideas. 


thrown  away  and  waste  which  is  too  valuable  to 
throw  away  and  perhaps  is  used  or  sold  else- 
where ....  Is  there  any  possibility  of  sending  me 
examples  of  drawings  being  made  of  planes  in  the  far 
future?  Dream  planes  as  it  were? 

Once  he  began  work  at  Burbank  and  had  searched 
among  the  storage  bins  he  was  amazed  to  find  literally 
hundreds  of  custom-made  and  prototype  airplane  parts 
which  in  isolation  bore  for  Kitaj  a  striking  resemblance 
to  the  forms  of  abstract  minimal  sculpture,  such  as  those 
which  he  had  intended  to  disperse  in  the  studio  environ- 
ment. The  quality  of  these  objects  strengthened  for  Kitaj 
his  feeling  that  the  studio  idea  was  not  an  appropriate 
project  for  his  Lockheed  venture:  to  attempt  a  full-scale 


The  small  group  of  six  or  seven  men  in  the  mock-up 
shop  who  became  enthusiastically  involved  with  Kitaj's 
project  were,  for  the  most  part,  a  now  rare  breed  of 
artisans  skilled  in  traditional  methods  of  hand  tooling 
and  model  making.  Kitaj's  relationship  with  these 
workmen  was  greatly  satisfying  to  him.  These  men— par- 
ticularly Arthur  Monroy,  William  Stullick,  Clyde 
Gossett,  James  Scott  and  Nicholas  Eckhert— provided 
valuable  contributions  to  the  design  of  the  work.  Al- 
though Kitaj  maintained  control  over  every  aspect  of 
esthetic  decision-making,  the  individual  components 
took  shape  largely  as  a  result  of  the  interchange  between 
the  artist  and  these  men.  In  one  specific  instance,  Kitaj 
and  his  co-workers  had  tried  by  several  methods  to 
achieve  the  effect  of  a  volumetric  shaft  of  light  in  the 


157 


A&T 


13 


14 


; ; '  iiB»" 


15 


158 


coal  tunnel  by  modifying  the  light  source  at  the  top  or 
forming  the  light  beams  using  a  piece  of  plastic,  but 
without  success.  William  Stullick  finally  devised  the 
solution:  he  attached  strands  of  very  thin  fishwire  to  the 
top,  surrounding  the  light  source  opening;  these  were 
then  spread  out  and  attached  to  the  bottom,  forming  a 
volume  as  the  light  struck  the  transparent  wire. 

Looking  back  on  this  involvement  with  the  workers, 

Kitaj  reminisced: 

.  .  .  the  guys  on  the  floor  were  everything  I  would 
have  wished  to  find  again  ...  I  felt  very  much  at 
home  and  warmed  up  and  on  their  side  in  no  time  at 
all  .  .  .  old  Bolshevik  merchant  mariner  sentiments 
welled  up  and  a  hundred  daily  dramas  played  them- 
selves out  like  an  anthology  of  Proletarian  literature 
brought  up  to  date  .  .  .  Viet  Nam  arguments,  sub- 
urban life  and  all  the  newest  terrors  of  layoff  in 
aerospace.  Many  of  the  guys  I  knew  best  were  for 
[Tom]  Bradley  [the  current  mayoral  candidate]  and 
against  the  war  and  it  all  felt  good  and  I  won't  forget 
them  in  that  stinking  suburban  valley  and  hope  they 
get  out  into  those  National  Parks  a  lot. 


The  artist  also  worked  closely  with  David  Belson,  from 
Lockheed's  computer  department.  Belson  first  instruc- 
ted Kitaj  in  computer  drawing  methods.  (On  one  such 
occasion  Dr.  Richard  Feynman  accompanied  the  artist 
and  participated  in  the  lesson.)  Gradually  Belson  became 
fascinated  by  the  types  of  images  the  artist  wished  to 
execute  on  the  computer.  Together  they  designed  the 
man-figure  which  was  subsequently  fabricated  [16] ; 
they  also  computed  the  shape  for  the  arch.  [17]  While 
still  in  the  midst  of  this  work,  Kitaj  described  to  us  the 
nature  of  his  relationship  with  Belson: 

Dave  began  as  one  of  those  peculiar  birds  out  there 
who  has  a  blank  check— that  means  that  every  time  I 
walk  into  his  office  he  can  get  up  off  his  desk  without 
permission  from  anybody  else  and  walk  away  with 
me  and  spend  as  much  time  as  I  require.  For  instance 
he  seems  to  be  able  to  satisfy  his  own  curiosity  about 
the  project  as  if  he  was  being  paid  to  do  that.  We  sat 
all  morning  in  front  of  all  the  scopes,  and  Dave  will 
go  back  there  late  this  afternoon  when  the  scope  is 
not  being  used,  just  to  satisfy  his  curiosity  and  to  find 
out  more  about  what  we  were  learning  this  morning, 
not  only  to  be  in  a  position  to  be  able  to  explain 
more  to  me  when  we  meet  next,  but  for  his  private 
reasons. 


16 


159 


A&T 


■||nHp^HP^| 


160 


In  addition  to  preliminary  designs  for  the  sculptural 
components,  Kitaj  executed  with  the  computer  a  series 
of  drawings  which  constitute  another  aspect  of  the 
project.  He  made  a  portrait  drawing  of  a  girl's  head  in 
several  variations  [18]  and  intended  to  execute  other 
portraits  after  leaving  Lockheed  by  sending  material 
back  and  forth  to  Belson  from  London.  But  after  return- 
ing to  London,  he  found  it  too  difficult  to  carry  through 
this  scheme  by  correspondence.  However,  the  female 
portrait  and  several  abstract  drawings  also  made  with  the 
computer  [19]  were  later  incorporated  into  a  series  of 
lithographs  which  Kitaj  produced  in  conjunction  with 
the  poet  Robert  Creeley. 

Kitaj's  retrospective  evaluation  of  the  diverse  and  often 
fragmented  aspects  of  his  total  experience  at  Lockheed 
is  ambivalent.  He  wrote. 

Thinking  about  it  now,  so  much  seems  so  funny,  so 
ridiculous;  maybe  that's  got  to  be  one  of  the  best 
results:  walking  down  endless  corporate  corridors 
each  day,  back  and  forth,  miles  of  modern  hallways, 
wearing  a  badge  or  two  badges,  carrying  all  kinds  of 
important  plans  and  papers  ....  Then  when  the 
hallways  reach  the  more  executive  parts,  the  floors 
become  nicely  carpeted  and  indirectly-lit  old  prints 
and  photos  of  early  primitive  aircraft,  seaplanes, 
nostalgic  passenger  planes  like  from  Lost  Horizon 
spaced  along  the  walls.  And  the  kind  of  fake  and 
ultimately  meaningless  (for  my  own  life)  encounter 
over  those  weeks  with  the  really  enormous  tidal  wave 
of  machinery  and  a  massive  technology  I  could  never 
hope  to  approach  intelligently  let  alone  fathom. 
Maybe  the  heart  of  the  experience  lies  there  for  me-a 
confirmation  of  the  utter  boredom  I  always  feel  when 
art  and  science  try  to  meet— that  is  to  say,  the  feeling 
of  very  slender  accomplishment  in  those  forms  of  art 
which  pretend  to  operate  scientifically.  Over  the  last 
fifty  years,  these  art  and  science  people  only  manage 
light  jabs  and  then  seem  to  wither  .  .  .  while  an 
immense  technology  remains  .  .  .  progressive,  destruc- 
tive, what  have  you  ....  Dealing  with  the  people  in 
the  corporation  and  in  the  plant  was  by  far  the  most 
memorable  experience— far  better  that  intercourse 
than  the  indeterminate  results. 


18 


/ 


In  describing  the  works,  Kitaj  elaborated  on  the  "ironi- 
cal ambition"  which  had  been  a  primary  impetus  in  the 
studio  piece  and  which  carried  over  into  the  present 
work: 

There  is  a  certain  irony  in  the  historical  thing.  Some 
of  it  can  be  construed  clearly,  and  other  aspects  of  it 
needn't  be  talked  about;  it  goes  without  saying. 
Obviously  those  times  were  the  beginnings  of  a 
capitalism  that  we've  learned  to  live  with  and  mistrust 
in  many  ways.  Especially  in  those  times  and  in  our 
own  time,  industry  has  brought  all  sorts  of  energy 
and  misery  and  poverty  and  ambition  into  the  world. 


161 


A&T 


19 


162 


What  fantastic  ironies  lived  in  those  times,  we're  all 
aware  of.  Obviously  just  seeing  a  stack  on  a  landscape 
in  Cornwall  isn't  a  heavy  enough  occasion  for  me  to 
live  and  die  with.  It's  everything  that  those  beginnings 
of  industry  imply  that  interests  me  more,  that  have 
always  conditioned  my  thinking— the  poverty,  des- 
pair, loneliness.  So  that  these  are  tips  of  an  iceberg.  I 
don't  expect  that  any  of  that  will  be  apparent  or 
terribly  interesting  from  the  visual  fact  of  looking  at 
those  things  in  an  installation.  That's  why  I've  always 
insisted  in  my  whole  working  life  on  an  explanation- 
some  kind  of  help.  Even  in  the  case  of  appreciating 
abstract  art  an  incredible  amount  of  spade  work  is 
necessary  to  enhance  your  position— to  enjoy  the 
work  or  criticize  the  work  or  live  with  the  work  or 
whatever  ....  No  matter  what  anyone  says,  any 
visual  work  is  not  going  to  stop  at  its  visual  nature;  it 
will  always  carry  philosophical  implications. 

Kitaj's  Lockheed  work  will  finally  be  realized  only  in  the 
process  of  installation.  The  presentation  will  convey  all 
of  the  diverse  aspects  of  the  artist's  Lockheed  experi- 
ence, including  an  array  of  enlarged  photographs,  draw- 
ings, computer  graphic  material,  the  book  Wings,  and  the 
major  sculptural  components  dispersed  in  a  room-sized 
space,  in  much  the  same  way  as  he  originally  envisioned 
the  studio  environment.  Kitaj  here  describes  the  whole 
complex,  which  he  calls. 

Mock-up:  Lives  of  ttie  Engineers 

A  room  full  of  things  and  fragments  of  things  mostly 
made  or  mostly  relating  to  things  made  in  the  mock- 
up  shops  at  Lockheed  while  the  very  craftsmen  were 
also  working  on  the  model  parts  for  their  new  L-101 1 
passenger  liner  .  .  .  (working  men  moving  back  and 
forth  as  in  a  film)  (Rene  Clair  etc.  .  .  .  precision/con- 
fusion) the  room  space  shd  be  introduced  by  the  large 
black  arch  which  may  yet  have  to  be  completed  by 
addition  of:  white?  viaduct  cut-out  strip  design;  (with 
tiny  puffing  train  image?  or  people)  various  stenciled 
wording  (SELF-HELP;  THRIFT;  DUTY  etc  re:  Sam 
Smiles);  and  one  of  the  variant  (red?)  sets  of  wooden 
inner  doorway  pieces  creating  an  unorthodox  en- 
trance space  .... 

At  the  far  side  of  the  space,  (against  a  wall,  maybe 
20'— 25'  away)  the  large  screen  (which  I  have  called  a 
version  of  CHELSEA  REACH-a  Whistlerian  connota- 
tion because  I  want  a  version  to  carry  Chinoiserie 
fabric  combinations  but  settled  here  for  aircraft 
seating  fabric  which  gives  it  its  van  Doesberg  look) 
.  . .  there  still  remains  the  fact  of  either  having  or  not 
having  to  deal  with  the  2nd  set  of  (I  believe-com- 
plete) fabric  panels  in,  I  think,  a  dark  color  range  .  .  . 
but  I  may  dispose  these  on  the  walls  in  a  certain  way 
I  have  in  mind.  The  complex  begins  to  take  on 
attributes  of  a  very  crowded  and  allusive  theatre 


staging  area  .  .  .  incomplete  but  complicated  innu- 
endo .  .  .  historico-political-literary  ...  as  if  specific 
drama  could  emerge  as  a  possibility. 

like  a  Meyerhold  Production  from  Akimov  p. 
701  (Soviet  Theatre)  [20,  illustrated  on  p.  717; 
set  design  by  Akimov  for  Verneuil's  My  Crime 
at  the  Leningrad  Theatre  of  Comedy] 

My  fondest  dream  is  to  develop  the  expressiveness 
of  things  to  a  point  where  1  need  not  be  ashamed 
to  put  them  on  the  stage  beside  the  best  of  actors. 
As  yet  this  waits  in  Utopia,  but  if  I  should  ever 
succeed  in  bringing  upon  the  stage  a  chair  at  the 
sight  of  which  the  audience  as  one  would  sob,  I 
would  die  in  peace.  If  Van  Gogh  were  working  in 
the  theatre  today,  I  am  convinced  that  he  would 
be  able  to  do  it. 

Walls  are  to  be  heavily  hung  with  large  computerized 
sheets  (orange);  framed  computer  abstractions;  large 
grey,  sepia,  violet  detail-like  panel  blow-ups  like  film 
clips  enlarged,  highly  varied;  also  the  set  or  portrait 
engravings  (retouched?);  some  framed  pertinent  book 
jacket  prints  inspired  at  Burbank  (i.e.— the  Burbank 
cover  etc.);  some  unfinished  work  leading  on  ...  . 

Most  of  what  is  hung  above  shd  bear  hig!.,,  msinu- 
ating  captioning  etc. 

A  disposition  will  be  found  for  the  set  of  plastic 
emblem-tokens  (printed  stencils— Walker  Evans, 
James  Agee  have  yet  to  be  attached). 

Within  the  staging  space  places  can  be  found  for  the 
tunnel  oblong  (I  believe  wording  has  yet  to  run 
around  the  facing  frame  of  this  piece)  also  a  lighting 
fixture  may  be  involved.  The  chimney  pieces— one  or 
some,  standing,  lying  and/or  fragmented,  torn  .  .  . 
they  don't  seem  right  or  good  but  we'll  see.  The 
flying  man— (with  a  nod  to  Schlemmer)  .  .  .  placed 
out  of  context,  I  think  on  the  floor  or  leaning  some- 
where rather  than  mounted  atop  a  tower  as  before. 

The  half  lighthouse  complex  (OUR  THING?)-is  it  on 
its  cork  covered  base?  ...  are  the  mechanical  parts 
put  together? 

Some  of  these  pieces  may  have  things  added  to  them 
or  images  implanted  in  or  on  them  or  things  subtrac- 
ted from  them  or  allusive  characteristics  given  to 
them  to  heighten  effects  in  themselves  or  in  the 
general  drama  of  the  combinations.— glass  cases  are  to 
contain  at  least  some  open  copies  of  WINGS  and 
most  likely  other  material  .  .  .  also  enlarged  details 
from  the  collection  of  photos  for  the  book  (some  not 
used  in  the  book)  shd  join  the  dramatic  hanging  in 
the  place. 


163 


A&T 


20 


Kitaj's  Mock-up— Wke  most  of  the  other  A&T  projects- 
will  assume  the  distinctive  marl<  of  the  artist  only  in  a 
final  disposition  of  the  individual  components  in  the 
installation.  Judging  from  the  above  description,  the 
environment  will  relate  to  Kitaj's  style  of  painting  and 
become  in  the  end  a  complex  of  objects,  the  character  of 
which  will  be  determined  by  the  conjunction  of  multi- 
layered,  often  obscure,  poetic,  historical,  and  esthetic 
associations.  Kitaj  once  commented, 

What  is  and  was  important  was  to  connect  often  over 
the  weeks  and  months  with  those  fugitive  passions 
which  occasion  themselves  and  pattern  themselves  at 


the  centers  of  one's  interest ....  There  is  no,  or  very 
little  question  of,  ultimate  meaning,  as,  I  think,  issues 
of  meaning  are  far  less  clear  than  is  often  supposed, 
even  in  simple,  abstract  art ...  .  The  [project]  might 
have  been  called  'The  Vitality  of  Fresh  Disorder.' 
That's  Blackmur's  phrase  .  .  .  and  he  goes  on  to  say: 
'Each  time  we  look  at  a  set  of  things  together,  but  do 
not  count  them,  the  sum  of  the  impressions  will  be 
different,  though  the  received  and  accountable  order 
remains  the  same.'* 

Gail  R.  Scott 


^Letters  from  31  Artists  to  the  Albright-Knox  Gallery 
Spring  1970,  P.  18 


Piotr  Kowalski  ^^'^ 

Born  Poland,  1927 
Resident  Paris 


Primarily  because  of  his  successful  participation  in  the 
International  Sculpture  Symposium  in  1964  at  Long 
Beach  State  College  we  invited  Piotr  Kowalski  to  submit 
a  proposal  for  A  &  T.  Kowalski  indicated  he  would,  but 
surprisingly,  he  did  not. 


Rockne  Krebs 

Born  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  1938 
Resident  Washington,  D.C. 


A&T 


The  Hewlett-Pacl<ard  Corporation  contracted  with  the 
IVIuseunn  as  a  Sponsor  Corporation  in  August,  1968,  after 
a  fairly  prolonged  exchange  of  correspondence  between 
the  Museum  and  David  Packard.  Hewlett-Packard  had 
declined  to  join  as  Patron  Sponsor,  and  we  might  not 
have  persisted  so  long  in  soliciting  their  cooperation 
except  that  we  had  toured  their  Palo  Alto  facility  with 
Mr.  Packard  in  July  and  felt  strongly  that  their  techno- 
logical potential  for  an  artist,  especially  in  the  area  of 
lasers,  was  exceptionally  important.  By  joining  the 
program  in  the  Sponsor  capacity,  Hewlett-Packard 
ultimately  provided  valuable  resources  and  went  to 
considerable  effort  and  expense  in  assisting  the  artist 
matched  with  them— their  commitment  finally  equalled 
that  of  most  Patron  Sponsor  corporations. 

After  Hewlett-Packard  had  signed  a  Sponsor  Corporation 
contract,  nearly  a  year  passed  before  they  received  an 
artist,  though  the  assignment,  when  made,  was  accom- 
plished easily. 

In  March,  1969,  Hal  Glicksman  received  a  letter  from 

Washington,  D.C.  artist  Rockne  Krebs: 

Walter  Hopps  suggested  that  I  contact  you  if  I  was 
interested  in  participating  in  the  L.A.  County 
Museum's  'Art  and  Technology'  show.  I  am. 

Perhaps  Walter  mentioned  my  light  structures  to  you. 
I  would  be  particularly  interested  in  producing  one  in 
collaboration  with  a  corporation  which  makes  lasers. 
I  have  been  plugging  away  at  these  things  since  the 
spring  of  1967  when  I  panhandled  a  laser  and  set  one 
of  the  structures  up  in  my  apartment.  Since  then 
there  have  been  three  one-man  shows— a  fourth 
coming  up  at  the  Corcoran  in  May  [this  was  later 
rescheduled  for  November] .  I  have  yet  to  scratch  the 
surface  in  terms  of  the  possibilities.  The  inevitable 
inhibiting  factors  for  me  are  technical  assistance  and 
the  equipment  necessary  to  realize  the  work.  Needless 
to  say,  your  project  sounds  attractive  to  me. 

I  now  have  eight  lights  of  my  own.  All  but  one  were 
purchased  from  Spectra-Physics,  a  firm  based  in 
Mountain  View,  California.  Their  local  rep  has  been 
reasonably  cooperative  about  lending  me  equipment 
when  he  has  it  available.  I  understand  that  Spectra- 
Physics  is  one  of  the  few  companies  left  whose 
primary  product  is  lasers.  I  mention  this  because 
Spectra-Physics  might  be  limited  in  how  much  they 
could  afford  to  subsidize  this  kind  of  project  as 
compared  to  a  large  corporation  for  which  lasers 
would  be  a  subsidiary  product.  I  am  just  speculating, 
however.  Laser  applications  apparently  have  not  kept 
up  with  what  was  envisioned  initially. 

If  you  are  interested,  I  will  prepare  a  detailed  pro- 
posal for  a  piece. 


We  were  indeed  interested,  and  on  April  1 1,  Rockne  sent 
us  a  carefully  drawn  up  proposal.  It  described  two 
works,  one  to  be  set  up  outdoors  and  shown  at  night, 
the  other  an  indoor  piece.  He  called  them  Night  Passage 
and  Day  Passage.  In  May,  we  brought  Krebs  to  California 
for  three  days  to  tour  corporations.  He  visited  Hewlett- 
Packard,  and  signed  an  artist  contract.  It  was  immedi- 
ately evident  that  Hewlett-Packard  would  be  well  equip- 
ped to  work  with  Krebs,  and  following  Krebs'  tour,  we 
sent  his  proposal  to  Dan  Lansdon,  Administrative  Head 
of  Hewlett-Packard's  laboratory,  with  a  letter  urging  that 
a  collaboration  be  initiated.  On  June  6,  Lansdon  phoned 
to  say  that  Hewlett-Packard  was  prepared  to  work  with 
Krebs:  it  was  agreed  that  Krebs  would  begin  residence  in 
mid-July.  A  year  later,  Rockne  wrote  about  his  feelings 
at  that  time,  just  after  he  had  first  toured  the  corpora- 
tion: 

Initially,  from  the  point  of  view  of  realizing  a  laser 
piece,  I  had  some  misgivings  about  a  collaboration 
with  Hewlett-Packard.  They  made  lasers,  but  I  had  no 
idea  if  they  were  the  type  suited  for  my  work.  The 
security  lid  was  on  the  project  they  had  going  with 
lasers  and  they  refused  to  discuss  it  with  me. 

I  did  feel  that  there  were  some  interesting  people 
there  but  in  terms  of  Hewlett-Packard's  products,  I 
did  not  immediately  see  any  possibilities  for  the  kind 
of  work  that  was  on  my  mind  when  I  went  to  Palo 
Alto 

To  be  completely  honest  about  it,  at  the  time  I 
wanted  very  much  to  make  a  piece.  This  is  not  the 
cool,  think-tank  theme  that  might  be  popular  to 
peddle,  but  several  years  of  ideation  and  attempts  to 
visualize  pieces  that  were  beyond  my  resources  to 
realize,  both  technically  and  financially,  had  preceded 
my  initial  visit. 

Maurice  Tuchman  and  Hal  Glicksman  stressed  the 
importance  of  the  unknown  possibilities  that  this  sort 
of  collaboration  might  point  to:  Quote  MT:  'You 
may  not  even  want  to  make  a  laser  piece.' 

Okay.  I  was  skeptical,  but  I  told  MT,  HG,  JL  and  BA 
that  I  would  be  glad  to  go  to  Hewlett-Packard  and 
spend  time  in  the  labs  and  see  what  happened. 

Who  knows  what  was  on  the  group  mind  at  the 
Hewlett-Packard  labs?  There  was  an  unknown. 
Titillating. 

Krebs  was  at  this  time  more  enthusiastic  about  doing  an 
outdoor  piece  (some  version  of  Night  Passage),  than  the 
indoor  Day  Passage  and  in  June  sent  us  an  RCA  price 
schedule  on  laser  equipment  with  hand-written  notes  on 
how  he  might  use  their  argon  laser.  Model  LD  2100,  for 
such  a  project.  He  wrote, 


166 


The  LD  2100  has  an  internal  cavity  prism  assembly 
which  permits  the  selection  of  a  minimum  of  six 
individual  frequencies— colors. 

It  should  be  possible  to  devise  a  way  to  run  through 
its  color  range  continuously  which  is  from  green- 
yellow  to  blue.  Now  try  to  imagine  a  huge  exterior 
light  structure  of  three  of  these  on  different  cycles 
and  one  stable  red  50  mw  helium  neon  zapping 
between  the  buildings  and  finally  shooting  off  over 
Wilshire  into  the  L.A.  atmosphere.  [1] 

Flowers  would  grow  in  the  cement  out  front  of  the 
L.A.  County  Museum  the  three  or  four  hours  a  night 
that  it  was  turned  on. 

In  fact— let  this  be  my  proposal  to  Hewlett-Packard.  I 
recall  that  they  have  one  argon  laser  some  place.  They 
would  begin  by  making  an  automatic  wavelength 
selector  device  that  runs  on  a  continuous  cycle  for 
their  argon  laser.  (Although  I  would  be  interested  in 
how  it's  done,  it  is  not  necessary  that  I  know.  Then  if 
I'm  allowed  out  there  I  could  have  that  to  begin 
experimenting  with  when  I  arrive  in  July.  If  it  does 
what  I  think  it  will,  we  could  then  see  about  renting 
or  borrowing  the  one  or  two  more  lasers  necessary  to 
realize  the  piece.)  I  would  like  to  be  able  to  control 
the  cycle  rate— slow  or  fast,  and  to  be  able  to  stop  it 
on  a  specific  color  if  I  wanted  .... 

By  the  time  Krebs  arrived  in  Palo  Alto  in  July,  and  the 
collaboration  was  underway,  it  had  become  fairly  certain 
that  some  of  the  A  &  T  projects  would  go  to  Expo  70, 
and  we  encouraged  Krebs  and  Hewlett-Packard  to 
execute  a  laser  environment  that  could  be  displayed  in 
the  New  Arts  area.  Thus,  the  idea  of  creating  an  outdoor 
work  was  relegated  to  secondary  priority.  Krebs  and 
Hewlett-Packard's  physicist  Laurence  Hubby  did  run 
some  night  tests  during  his  stay  at  Hewlett-Packard 
involving  a  laser  beam  directed  into  the  atmosphere  and 
hand-manipulated  mechanically  to  change  color.  This 
peripheral  experimentation  was  actually  of  key  impor- 
tance to  the  artist  in  many  respects.  He  afterward  wrote, 
I  have  a  reasonably  good  science-fiction  background. 
When  I  arrived  at  the  Hewlett-Packard  labs  I  could 
turn  a  laser  'on'  and  'off.'  I  felt  that  the  technology 
involved  was  best  left  to  the  technicians.  Still  do  with 
this  qualification:  I  want  to  know  all  the  capabilities 
and  limitations  of  the  tool.  What  we  were  doing 
wasn't  merely  collaborating  on  the  execution  of  a 
piece  for  Expo.  I  was  able,  with  the  assistance  of 
Hubby  and  others,  to  research  in  a  much  broader 
sense,  possibilities  for  work  that  had  nothing  to  do 
with  any  particular  piece.  For  example:  Larry  Hubby 
and  I  would  go  back  to  the  labs  in  the  evening  (on  his 
time  off).  We  would  set  up  and  run  the  tests  for 
outdoor  pieces.  With  Larry's  assistance  I  was  able  to 


determine  the  power  of  laser  required  to  do  an 
outdoor  piece,  and  the  size  of  optical  telescope 
necessary  to  refocus  the  laser  light  to  get  minimal 
divergence  in  relation  to  distance.  In  other  words, 
what  my  scale  limitations  were.  I  learned  that  there 
was  a  definite  relationship  between  the  particle  size, 
the  frequency  of  the  light  (color),  and  how  well  it 
scattered  under  normal  atmospheric  conditions— ap- 
peared visible  along  the  path  of  the  beam.  I  learned 
that  the  blues  and  greens  would  be  scattered  better 
by  the  incidental  matter  present  in  the  atmosphere 
than  the  longer  wavelengths  of  red. 

Throughout  Krebs'  initial  residence  at  Hewlett-Packard, 
from  July  21  through  August,  and  in  the  later  stages  of 
the  project,  Dan  Lansdon  served  as  his  principal  contact. 
Lansdon  was  extraordinarily  helpful  in  directing  the 
artist  to  the  right  personnel  for  advice  and  assistance  in 
the  various  technical  aspects  of  the  project;  according  to 
Krebs,  "Lansdon  had  the  authority,  and  used  it:  he 
knew  what  people  to  see  and  how  to  approach  them." 
Krebs  not  only  worked  with  a  great  number  of  tech- 
nicians at  Hewlett-Packard,  but  made  several  connec- 
tions with  laser  experts  outside  their  laboratory.  The 
Palo  Alto  area  is  probably  the  world  center  of  laser 
research,  and  on  five  or  six  occasions,  Krebs  was  led  by 
Hewlett-Packard  people  to  seek  information  from 
experts  at  such  nearby  organizations  as  Spectra-Physics, 
Coherent  Radiation  Laboratories  and  Stanford  Research 
Laboratories.  He  presented  a  slide  lecture  to  personnel  at 
Spectra-Physics  which  was  received  with  considerable 
enthusiasm.  Indeed  the  first  two  or  three  weeks  of 
Krebs'  stay  in  Palo  Alto  were  devoted  primarily  to  a 
process  of  gathering  and  exchanging  information  and 
simply  conversing  informally  with  various  laser  research- 
ers. Krebs  said  later  that  when  he  arrived  at  Hewlett- 
Packard  with  his  project  In  mind,  he  "didn't  know  if  the 
piece  vja%  possible;  I  suspected  it  was,  but  it  was  much 
more  complicated  than  I  had  envisioned.  Technically, 
it's  more  complicated  than  any  work  I've  done." 

Rockne  also  commented  that  he  was  intensely  affected 
intellectually  by  his  experience  in  Palo  Alto:  "My  mind 
was  stimulated,"  he  said,  "in  a  way  it  never  had  been 
before,  and  probably  never  would  be,  particularly  by 
art." 

Krebs  was  extremely  gratified  to  find  that  he  could 
easily  obtain  direct  and  precise  answers  to  questions  he 
had  hitherto  not  been  able  to  resolve.  For  example,  he 
consulted  with  a  Stanford  Research  Institute  physicist. 
Dr.  Arthur  Vassiliadus,  on  the  issue  of  the  precise 
threshold  levels  of  eye  damage  by  laser  light,  and  got 
exact  quantitative  information  from  him,  based  on 
recent  studies,  that  probably  was  not  available  at  that 
time  anywhere  else  in  the  world. 


167 


A&T 


'1. 


4 


T,  I.  .  I— w^---.  ^ 


■'    yV/6^r  PASSA-&6 


■«i5.-«si-' 


s  M  ^c'  ^>x; 


ni-rirrr'niii  h:' 


168 


One  incident  occurred,  not  directly  related  to  his  work 
on  the  main  project,  which  may  have  especially  signifi- 
cant ramifications  for  Krebs.  He  was  asked  to  present  a 
lecture  with  slides  to  a  group  of  Hewlett-Packard  em- 
ployees. The  talk  elicited  similar  interest  to  that  expres- 
sed by  the  Spectra-Physics  audience,  and  one  man,  a 
scientist  named  Egon  Loebner,  approached  Krebs  at  the 
end  of  the  presentation  to  invite  him  to  lunch.  Loebner 
is  an  authority  on  patent  procedure  (he  was  teaching  a 
course  in  invention  at  Stanford),  and  he  felt  that  some- 
thing Rockne  had  demonstrated  might  in  principle  be  a 
patentable  technique.  He  saw  in  some  of  Rockne's  laser 
light  configurations  a  potentially  utilitarian  function  as  a 
device  showing  particular  ways  of  architecturally  deline- 
ating space,  or  "light  as  structure."  Loebner  and  Krebs 
sought  the  advice  of  a  patent  lawyer  whom  Loebner 
knew,  and  as  a  result  a  patent  search  is  presently  under- 
way for  what  is  being  termed  "architectural  photon 
structures."  According  to  Krebs'  description  of  the 
projected  uses  for  this  phonomenon,  it  would  be  em- 
ployed literally  as  an  architectural  element.  For  ex- 
ample, temporary  walls,  false  ceilings  and  room  dividers 
might  be  created  with  laser  light.  Such  structures  could 
be  constructed  indoors  or  outdoors;  one  advantage,  for 
instance,  might  apply  in  a  landscape  situation,  in  which 
one  wished  to  mark  out  a  space  without  physically 
disrupting  the  terrain  or  flora.  Although  this  potential 
function  for  his  laser  environments  had  not  occurred  to 
Krebs,  he  quickly  saw  its  rationale,  as  envisioned  by 
Loebner.  Krebs  had  used  light  in  this  way  repeatedly, 
but  was  not  particularly  aware  that  it  might  constitute  a 
patentable  invention,  or  even  that  he  may  indeed  have 
been  doing  it  for  the  first  time. 

In  executing  the  piece  for  Expo,  Krebs  worked  perhaps 
most  closely  with  Hewlett-Packard  physicist  Laurence 
Hubby  [2] ,  who  designed  and  put  together  the  optical 
apparatus,  and  with  optics  engineer  Bruce  Ruff.  Of  the 
system  designed  by  Hubby,  Krebs  was  to  say  later,  "The 
apparatus  that  controls  the  argon  beam  is  a  work  of  art 
in  itself.  It  has  been  absolutely  beautifully  de- 
signed." [3]  (A  technical  description  of  the  optical 
system  developed  for  Krebs  was  written  for  us  by  John 
Lazier,  and  is  included  as  an  appendix  on  p.  176.)  Besides 
the  intricate  optical  system,  which  incorporated  hun- 
dreds of  parts,  the  work  basically  comprised  a  series  of 
small  mirrors  to  direct  the  light  beams,  two  helium  neon 
lasers,  special  mounts  for  the  helium  neon  lasers,  the 
large  argon  laser,  the  fog-producing  machine  needed  to 
increase  the  visibility  of  the  beams,  and  two  eight  and 
one-half  by  fourteen  foot  plate  glass  mirrors  which  were 
made  in  Japan.  The  Japanese  company  that  provided  the 
mirrors  stated  that  they  may  be  the  largest  true  mirrors 
ever  made.  Rockne  wrote,  elaborating  on  the  system. 
These  small  mirrors  were  no  small  design  problem. 
First,  they  needed  to  be  adjustable  through  three 
axes— X,  y,  and  z,  with  as  much  adjustment  as  pos- 


sible. The  latter  was  necessary  to  give  me  flexibility 
when  redirecting  the  light  beam.  Second,  they  had  to 
be  stable,  so  that  once  a  position  was  determined  the 
mount  itself  would  not  slip  and  cause  misalignment. 
Third,  the  mount  had  to  be  attached  to  a  wall  of 
similar  plane.  Fourth,  I  wanted  all  this  to  happen  in 
as  discreet  a  piece  of  apparatus  as  possible:  a  small 
three  inch  diameter  mirror  mount  that  would  pro- 
trude little  from  the  wall.  (My  feeling  about  these 
pieces  is  that  the  work  of  art  is  not  the  apparatus. 
Rather,  it  is  a  score  or  arrangement  [or  whatever] 
determined  in  relationship  to  a  specific  enclosure. 
Allowing  for  the  obvious  contradiction  of  the  neces- 
sity for  some  kind  of  apparatus  [mirror  mount]  to 
redirect  the  light  it  is  important  to  me  that  they  be  as 
inconspicuous  as  possible.) 

This  kind  of  mirror  mount  (or  IVlaurice's  term  'beam 
joint')  is  not  stock  optical  equipment.  Dan  Lansdon 
and  I  spent  an  amazing  number  of  hours  discussing 
the  requirements  and  attempting  to  find  some  kind  of 
existing  mount  that  could  be  altered— none  existed! 
Although  several  of  Hewlett-Packard's  mechanical 
engineers  worked  on  it  at  various  times,  it  was  Lans- 
don who  resolved  and  perfected  a  miiror  mount 
which  satisfied  my  requirements,  with  the  beautiful 
plus  of  being  relatively  inexpensive  to  produce— about 
$30  per  mount.  If  I  continue  to  work  with  lasers,  as 


seems  likely  at  this  time,  try  to  imagine  how  long  it 
would  have  taken,  how  much  it  would  have  cost,  how 
difficult  it  would  have  been  for  me  to  locate  people 
capable  of  and  willing  to  bother  designing  this  one 
little  item.  With  the  prototype  which  I  now  have  I 
can  have  them  made  myself. 


169 


A&T 


The  main  aspect  of  the  project  accomplished  in  terms  of 
realizing  the  piece  for  Expo  during  Krebs'  initial  stay  at 
Hewlett-Packard  was  the  designing  of  the  programmed 
optical  system;  this  is  of  course  in  some  ways  the  crux  of 
what  the  work  is  about,  but  it  still  remained  to  actually 
obtain  the  large  argon  laser  (a  problem  which  caused 
difficulties  until  the  last  moment)  and  physically  set  up 
the  entire  structure  for  final  experimentation  and 
perfection.  This  process  had  to  take  place  in  the  installa- 
tion area  at  Expo.  Fortunately,  there  was  considerable 
flexibility  in  the  final  disposition  of  the  components 
within  a  prescribed  space. 

HG  wrote  this  memo  to  the  staff  on  August  28,  1969: 
Rockne  Krebs  has  left  Palo  Alto  for  Washington,  D.C. 
He  will  return  mid  October.  [This  was  eventually 
postponed.]  Hewlett  has  approved  $10,000  worth  of 
mirrors  and  other  devices  for  the  infinity  reflector 
system  and  other  uses  which  Krebs  gets  to  keep.  The 
Argon  laser  has  not  been  approved.  Jelco  (Japan 
Electronics  Co.)  makes  a  suitable  laser  that  could  be 
rented  in  Japan.  Lansdon  is  investigating  this  and 
other  possibilities. 

In  September,  Krebs  met  in  New  York  with  members  of 
the  Expo  Exhibition  Design  Team  and  us.  At  that  time  a 
tentative  location  for  the  work  was  selected.  It  seemed 
then  that  the  major  problems  were  the  hazard  created  by 


-■^'   /SL: 


170 


the  artificial  fog  (this  actually  posed  no  difficulties)  and 
the  rental  or  purchase  of  the  argon  laser.  Krebs  needed  a 
corridor-like  space  or  spaces  with  low  ambient  light; 
these  requirements  were  easily  met,  and  it  was  provision- 
ally decided  to  distribute  the  bouncing  light  beams  in 
several  sections  located  at  various  points  in  the  area, 
mounted  high  overhead.  Krebs  made  several  drawings 
showing  alternative  plans  for  distributing  passages  of 
laser  light  through  the  New  Arts  area.  [4] 

After  this  meeting,  some  radical  revisions  in  the  New 
Arts  area  were  effected. 

Krebs  wrote  to  Dan  Lansdon  on  October  15, 

...  I  mentioned  when  I  called  last  week  that  the 
architect  of  the  U.S.  Pavilion  in  Osaka,  Ivan  Cher- 
mayeff,  indicated  there  were  going  to  be  some 
changes  in  the  New  Arts  Exhibit  area.  I  have  just 
received  a  revised  plan  for  the  area.  The  space  is  now 
divided  into  rooms  rather  than  having  it  in  one  big 
area.  IVly  new  space  is  roughly  forty  feet  by  twenty 
feet.  This  changes  the  enclosure  to  the  extent  that  my 
piece  will  have  to  be  reworked.  I  am  concerned  now 
that  in  a  more  confined  area  the  intensity  of  the 
Argon's  green  and  blue  beams  will  wipe  out  the  lower 
power  He  Ne  red. 

The  altered  space  should  not  change  the  apparatus  we 
collaborated  on  this  summer  except  for  reducing  the 
number  of  small  mirror  mounts  required.  I  think  I 
said  twenty  versus  thirty  mounts  last  week  when  we 
talked.  Reduce  that  to  fifteen  total  (or  fourteen  in 
addition  to  the  prototype  I  have),  and  hold  up 
making  the  mount  for  the  He  Ne  lasers  .... 

Hewlett-Packard  and  the  Museum  attempted  to  procure 
the  argon  laser  as  a  donation  from  its  manufacturer. 
Finally,  it  was  purchased  by  Hewlett-Packard  from 
Coherent  Radiation  Laboratories,  and  two  helium  neon 
gas  lasers,  model  251,  were  lent  by  University  Labora- 
tories. 

Once  it  was  determined  that  the  large  parallel  mirrors 
would  be  made  in  Japan,  and  the  sources  of  the  three 
lasers  and  the  fog  juice  was  resolved,  the  question  of 
actually  installing  the  work  at  Expo  was  at  issue.  There 
was  no  doubt  that  Krebs  would  have  to  supervise  the 
installation  himself,  but  before  his  arrival  considerable 
preparation  was  expected. 

Krebs  wrote  to  David  Sutton,  November  28,  1969, 
Regarding  your  suggestion  in  your  November  18 
letter  that  the  Japanese  contractor  purchase  and 
install  the  mirrors— I  have  three  enclosures  which 
should  give  you  the  information  he  would  need.  I  like 
the  idea  of  having  the  floor  to  ceiling  wall  of  mirrors 
as  you  suggested  over  the  phone,  and  I  think  it  could 


be  done.  It  would  make  for  a  better  looking  installa- 
tion than  what  is  called  for  in  my  enclosures.  My 
reasons  for  not  suggesting  this  possibility  initially 
were  the  additional  expense  of  the  mirrors  and  the 
difficulties  encountered  in  aligning  the  mirrors  in  a 
co-planar  relationship.  It  would  be  necessary  to  install 
the  plywood  paneling  in  such  a  way  that  you  could 
insure  the  two  walls  used  with  the  mirrors  be  co- 
planar  before  any  attempt  is  made  to  install  the 
mirrors.  Then,  in  installing  the  mirrors,  I  would 
recommend  covering  the  entire  surface  of  the  ply- 
wood with  an  even  coating  of  'mirror  mastik.'  This 
could  certainly  be  done  before  I  arrive  in  Osaka. 
(Note:  the  mirrors  to  be  used  are  simply  standard 
one-fourth  inch  thick  plate  glass.  They  come  in  a 
stock  size  of  eight  feet  by  ten  feet  in  the  U.S.)  Once  I 
am  there  and  install  the  lasers  and  other  apparatus,  it 
would  be  necessary  to  drill  three  holes  in  one  mirror. 
However,  I  do  not  think  this  will  pose  a  problem. 

Krebs  returned  to  Hewlett-Packard  for  a  week  in  Janu- 
ary, 1970,  to  finish  the  work  begun  the  previous  sum- 
mer—the lasers  had  still  to  be  tested  in  operation  with 
the  small  mirrors,  and  the  optical  system  completed. 
During  this  period  he  worked  intensely  with  Laurence 
Hubby,  and  again  Lansdon  assisted  him  significantly. 
Because  Krebs  was  to  accomplish  the  installation  him- 
self, without  the  assistance  of  the  Hewlett-Packard 
scientists  who  had  developed  the  work,  he  had  to  be 
taught  to  assemble  and  operate  the  optical  system.  Krebs 
wrote, 

John  Lazier,  the  Hewlett-Packard  electronic  tech- 
nician who  designed  the  electronic  shuttering  system 
and  the  program  which  could  control  the  rate  of 
change  and  configuration  and  color  change,  had 
worked  out  a  number  of  variable  program  possibili- 
ties. He  and  I  discussed  these  at  length,  he  trying  to 
visualize  what  the  various  program  possibilities  might 
look  like.  I  decided  for  the  most  apparently  random 
program.  The  limitations  were:  three  positions,  'A,' 
'B,'  and  'C  which  could  result  in  three  separate  light 
configurations  and  two  basic  colors.  I  wanted  the 
rates,  color,  and  position  changes  independent  of  one 
another.  We  were  told  the  average  viewer  would 
spend  roughly  three  minutes  in  the  space,  so  the 
possibility  of  the  piece  completing  its  cycle— running 
through  all  three  positions  and  the  final  30-second 
rapid  stage— had  to  be  worked  out  with  this  three- 
minute  time  factor  in  mind.  The  more  we  discussed 
it,  the  more  I  began  to  see  how  important  the  rate  of 
color  change  and  the  rate  of  re-positioning  would  be 
to  the  final  piece.  And  without  actually  experiencing 
it  in  the  space  I  was  reluctant  to  settle  for  a  basic 
program  which  I  could  not  alter.  John  Lazier  was 
sympathetic  and  spent  considerable  extra  time 
designing  into  the  system  a  control  mechanism  which 
would  allow  me  to  alter  the  rate  of  the  cycle  to  fit 


171 


A&T 


\ 


172 


the  situation.  Also,  to  facilitate  making  the  piece,  a 
switch  was  put  in  so  I  could  leave  it  on  at  any  de- 
signed point  in  the  cycle. 

The  last  night  I  was  in  Palo  Alto,  Lansdon,  Hubby, 
and  I  were  up  into  the  wee  hours  setting  the  argon 
laser  and  its  optical  system  up  to  test  it.  We  actually 
mounted  several  small  mirror  mounts  and  put  up  a 
test  configuration.  Everything  worked  beautifully 
except  the  collimating  telescopes.  I  felt  that  visually 
the  beam's  intensity  was  too  weak  because  of  the 
beam  diameter.  I  asked  Larry  Hubby  to  redesign  the 
telescope  and  reduce  the  beam  diameter  to  one-half 
inch,  which  he  did. 

On  January  24,  Krebs  arrived  in  Osaka  to  begin  the  six 
week  job  of  installation.  The  space  in  the  New  Arts  area 
allotted  for  the  work  measured  twenty-three  feet  by 
forty -six  feet;  it  was  a  parallelogram-shaped  room. 
Beside  it  there  was  a  separate,  walled  off  utility  room 
within  which  the  laser  apparatus  was  to  be  mounted;  the 
large  mirrors  were  placed  face  to  face  in  the  center  of 
the  room.  [51   Krebs  accomplished  nearly  all  of  the 
immensely  complicated  installation  himself.  He  moved 
into  a  schedule  whereby  he  would  work  at  night,  alone; 
it  was  easier  for  him  to  function  undisturbed  by  the 
workmen  in  adjacent  areas. 

The  work  is  difficult  to  describe,  but  in  assessing  the 
artist's  intentions  for  it,  and  the  important  issue  of  its 
special  nature  as  a  collaborative  project,  some  attempt  at 
description  is  necessary. 

Two  kinds  of  laser  light  were  used.  The  argon  laser 
produced  most  of  the  light,  and  because  its  powerful 
light  green  and  blue  beams  could  be  controlled  by  the 
optical  system  (in  conjunction  with  the  small  "beam 
joint"  mirrors,  to  disperse  the  beams)  [6,  7] ,  to  flash  on 
and  off,  or  change  color,  it  was  used  to  generate  the 


173 


A&T 


complicated  configurations  of  continually  changing  light 
structures.  The  red  beams  emanating  from  the  smaller 
helium  neon  lasers  formed  a  static  configuration  seen 
reflected  "to  infinity"  in  the  two  parallel  mirrors. 

The  argon  beams  were  structured  in  three  basic  sections. 
Originating  at  each  end  of  the  room,  and  traversing  it 
length-wise,  were  "fans"  of  light.  At  one  end,  "joints"  of 
light  originating  from  a  single  beam  (sections  of  beams 
reflected  between  small  mirrors)  traversed  the  area  in  a 
parallelogram  which  hung  horizontally,  at  a  distance  of 
seven  and  one-half  to  eight  feet  above  the  floor.  At  the 
other  end,  a  beam  was  positioned  vertically,  up  the  wall, 
from  eight  to  twelve  feet  above  floor  level.  This  beam 
would  then  fan  out  in  a  vertical  line  and  twist  into  a 
horizontal  configuration.  Then  this  entire  system  would 
be  reversed,  and  the  same  thing  would  occur  at  the 
opposite  end  of  the  room.  The  configurations  of  light 
were  programmed  to  run  through  a  repetitive  cycle;  they 
would  pop  back  and  forth,  or  seem  to  swing;  just  as  the 
spectator  began  to  apprehend  the  pattern  from  one 
point  of  view,  it  would  suddenly  begin  to  enter  a  "dia- 
logue" phase,  popping  back  and  forth  across  the  space. 
The  cycle  was  determined  at  seven  minutes,  based  on  the 
anticipated  rate  of  traffic  flow  through  Krebs'  room. 


The  third  argon  beam  was  positioned  vertically  in  the 
center  of  the  space,  running  down  the  center  of  the 
mirrors.  This  generated  a  kind  of  "wall,"  but  worked 
into  the  sweep  of  the  beam  activity  originating  from 
each  end  of  the  room.  The  center  beam  worked  in 
various  combinations  with  the  peripheral  argon  struc- 
tures. Reflected  in  the  infinity  reflection  system  it 
moved  in  and  out  and  changed  shape  in  relation  to  the 
"armature"  of  the  red  (helium  neon),  static  beam 
network. 


The  apparent  depth  perceived  as  one  stood  between  the 
parallel  mirrors  was  calculated  by  Krebs  to  be  about  ten 
times  that  of  the  actual  distance  between  them  (about) 
eighteen  feet).  Thus  as  one  walked  through  the  area,  he 
entered  a  passageway  between  the  mirrors  which  was 


174 


actually  narrower  than  the  rest  of  the  room,  but  seemed 
to  open  out  suddenly  into  a  great  expanse. 

When  this  description  of  the  work  had  been  written,  it 
was  shown  to  Krebs  in  the  hope  that  he  could  add  to,  or 
clarify  it.  Krebs  felt  that  it  was  not  totally  accurate,  and 
submitted  three  drawings  which  he  hoped  would  make 
the  structure  more  easily  visualizable  to  us.  [8] 

In  relation  to  Krebs'  past  work  with  lasers,  this  piece 
represents  a  significant  departure  chiefly  by  virtue  of  the 
programming  system,  which  he  could  not  have  devel- 
oped without  the  assistance  of  specialists.  The  artist  had 
for  some  time  wanted  to  find  a  way  to  weaken  the 
psychological  persistence  with  which  laser  beams  are 
perceived  as  apparently  real  matter.  He  felt  that  by 
making  the  beams  temporarily  disappear,  and  then 
reappear,  or  by  repositioning  the  light  from  one  source 
into  a  series  of  varying  configurations,  he  might  succeed 
in  achieving  a  sense  of  the  light  in  its  true  character— as 
simply  light.  The  ability  of  laser  light  to  suggest  spatial 
delineation,  and  to  convey  both  the  transiency  and 
relativeness  of  this  process,  is  realized,  Krebs  found,  only 
when  clues  are  given  to  counter  the  strongly  illusionistic 
felt  presence  of  a  laser  beam  projected  uninterruptedly. 
The  clues  were  provided  by  the  programming  system. 
Discussing  his  intentions  for  the  Expo  piece,  Krebs 
wrote, 

The  light  beam  would  fill  the  room  with  one  config- 
uration and  then  another— versus  'to  flash  on  and 
off  ....  you  just  have  the  sense  of  something  that's 
in  one  place  and  then  it's  in  another.  As  you  noticed, 
the  beams  of  laser  light  have  visually  a  tangible 
presence.  But  I  am  not  dealing  with  material  in  the 
same  manner  the  sculptor  has  in  the  past.  Conven- 
tionally a  sculpture  is  a  configuration  of  mass  that 
one  sees  because  it  is  illuminated  by  some  light 
source.  I  reversed  this  proposition.  I  put  incidental 
matter  into  the  atmosphere  (or  use  what  is  already 
present)  and  project  light  through  it.  The  path  the 
light  beams  take  as  they  pass  through  incidental 
matter  in  the  atmosphere  is  the  sculpture.  It  is  a  piece 
of  sculpture  that  one  could  physically  move  through. 

But,  it  is  light  (I  think  Newton  called  it  'a  unique 
form  of  matter')  and  it  has  unique  capabilities.  In  the 
configuration  that  resulted  from  positions  'A'  or  'C 
there  was  never  any  sense  of  the  structure  as  a  kinetic 
thing— of  the  light  moving  from  one  point  to  another. 
Rather  it  was  simply  there  in  a  space  that  had  previ- 
ously either  been  empty  or  occupied  by  a  different 
structure. 


general  or  laser  light  in  particular.  It  was  an  attempt 
to  realize  a  particular  work  of  art  which  did  of  course 
use  some  of  these  properties. 

The  visual  presence  of  the  laser  light  can  be  sufficient- 
ly convincing  that  one  forgets  with  his  eyes  and 
ultimately  with  his  mind  the  reality  of  what  he  sees. 
The  idea  of  reconfiguration  is  then  a  self-conscious 
attempt  to  tickle  both  his  mind  and  eyes. 

Rockne  plans  to  expand  the  basis  for  the  Expo  piece 
somewhat  in  doing  a  work  for  the  Museum  exhibition; 
there  will  probably  be  a  greater  profusion  of  light  beams 
from  the  argon  lasers,  and  possibly  the  addition  of  one 
or  two  helium  neon  lasers.  We  are  planning  as  well  to 
arrange  for  the  artist  to  set  up  an  outdoor  work,  using 
one  or  more  powerful  argon  lasers,  shooting  beams  out 
over  the  city  of  Los  Angeles  from  the  Museum. 

Jane  Livingston 


So  these  are  some  things  that  I  am  able  to  do  with  my 
medium  that  I  could  not  do  with  another.  There  are 
other  possibilities.  This  piece  was  not  an  attempt  to 
demonstrate  all  the  unique  properties  of  light  in 


175 


A&T 


The  room  looks  In  plan 
like  this: 


® 


Lasers  mounted  on 
wall  with  light 
entering  the  I.R.S 
through  holes  in 
the  mirror 


(D 


Blow-up  of 
Argon  section  of 
the  above  plan 
view. 


Structure  "A" 

Side  View 


Mirror  with  1"  diameter 
hole  for  the  three 
separate  beams  of  Argon 
laser  light  to  enter 
the  space.  The  hole  Is 
10'  above  floor  and 
centered. 


A,  B,  C  are  the  green  and 
blue  light  beams  which 
produce  the  three  separate 
configuration  -  A,  B,  and  C. 
Actually  the  beams  would 
enter  the  space  either  one 
at  a  time  or  In  the  combinations 
of  "A"  and  "B"  or  "B"  and  "C" 


Beam  ends 


Top  View 


End  View 


® 
Structure  "B" 


In  "B"  the  light  walks 
down  the  two  mirrors 
of  the  I.R.S.  which 
run  vertically  from 
floor  to  celling. 


structure  "C"  Is  slmlllar  enough  to  "A"  that  It 
should  suffice  to  think  of  "C"  as  "A"  reversed. 


Laser 


Beam  ends 


© 


2  HeNe  red-projected 
through  two  holes  In  mirror 
9'  above  floor  -  from  the 
configuration  shown  as  the 
light  beams  walk  down 
mirrors  diagonally. 


Appendix 


176 


A  Simplified  Explanation  of  the 
Beam-Switching  Sequence 


There  are  three  separate  angles  at  which  the  beam  can  be  directed, 
and  two  separate  colors  (blue  and  green) . 

It  is  easiest  to  visualize  nine  shutters,  one  for  each  angle  and  one 
for  each  color  (at  each  angle) ,  as  shown  below.   For  a  blue  beam  at  angle  A, 
we  would  open  shutter  "a"  (blue)  and  shutter  "A",  etc. 


The  actual  shutter-control  system  is  more  complicated  but  less  versatile 
than  as  outlined  above,  due  to  limitations  in  the  practical  placement  of  the 
shutters. 


177  A&T 


-2- 


There  are  two,  separate,  adjustable  "clocks"  or  oscillators.   One, 
designated  as  the  basic  clock,  controls  the  rate  at  which  the  beam  changes 
position  (angle).   The  other  is  called  the  color-change  clock  and  does  just 
that;  i.e.,  it  controls  the  rate  at  which  the  beam  changes  color. 

Let's  consider  the  basic  clock  first.   In  its  direct  (fast  mode)  it 
sequences  the  beam  thru  the  three  angles:  A,  B,  C,  A,  B,  C,  etc.   The 
time,  T,  at  each  angle  is  as  indicated  on  the  dial  calibration,  and  may  be 
adjusted  from  .14  to  3.5  seconds. 

After  10  cycles  (30  angle  changes),  the  basic  clock  output  is  switched 
to  a  slow  mode.   Now  the  beam  will  stay  at  each  angle  for  a  time  equal  to 
either  80  times  T  or  160  times  T  (depending  on  a  rear-panel  switch).   For 
example,  if  the  switch  is  in  the  80  position  and  the  basic  clock  is  set  for 
a  period  of  1.5  seconds,  the  time  at  each  angle  will  be  120  seconds. 

After  one  complete  cycle  (3  angle  changes),  in  the  slow  mode,  the  clock 
output  is  switched  back  to  the  fast  mode  and  the  process  repeats. 

The  color-change  clock  operates  at  a  generally  slower  rate  (1.6  to  80 
seconds),  changing  the  beam  color  alternately  between  blue  and  green.   Thus, 
during  the  fast  mode  of  the  basic  (angle)  clock,  the  beam  will  normally  go 
through  several  angle  changes  before  changing  color.   In  the  slow  mode,  the 
color  will  change  faster  than  the  angle. 

This  color-change  control  is  totally  independent  of  the  other  timing  circuits. 


178 


-3- 


A  third  cycling  circuit,  called  the  additional-color  flip-flop, 
provides  an  added  (and  opposite)  color  beam  at  angle  B  along  with  the 
normally-provided  beam  at  angles  A  or  C.   The  shutter-gating  table  may  be 
helpful  in  visualizing  this  sequence. 

This  additional-color  effect  is  operative  half  the  time,  being  triggered 
on  or  off  after  each  fast-slow  cycle. 


BhSId    CLOCK    (^XPAfJb£b^ 

Af^G-l£    C    (FXf'A^hah) 


.■•:l 


i^^ 


_H m wk 


Hrk 


"H      \^3dT 


AHG-i^e  A 

AH&L5    B 


At^blT/OA^AL 

CoLoK  F-F. 

COLof^-CHAnc^ 
C1.0CK 


m. 


wmmk 


-A  '^oT  V- 


[^Lr^i_r^n_n 


A;  ;i 


\\ 


'A 


T^£    CcloR-C/-/A^JC^r     C/.OCK    /S     S//<oiA/A/      S£T  AT    30  X     T^^"    /^/l£/C 

r//^   S/l^fC     ciioci<    P^^/ob    /5    Z>£s/<$A/4reb  "t" (RMGb=J4'3.S^c), 

r//^  6iow-Aio2i0   rMi^   /s  s^T  At   8'OT  ,    /r  aiai^  ^^ 
<5w/rc//^Zi    TO     /ao   T  *    (totAi  /--5   pefitob  =  ^ye>T   ^^  S'/i>  r.) 


/-  7-  7^ 


CoLOix  4. 

AnaLE 

OPEN 

CaAoR     4  ASCIIS 

Sl4UTT£R  5 

r^     A 

^ ,  s- 

^  A  i /B 

A,   3,  sr 

oc    B 

1 

oc  B 

1 

c<     C 

^,  c> 

oc  C  ^^B 

a,  3,  ^ 

^   ^ 

4,   i- 

yB   /  ■/  «>S 

/,  ^,  ^ 

3 
4,   G 

3 

SUvTTBTi 


BfAAA 


i 

oc    B 

9. 

oc  AC 

3 

/2    B 

^ 

/   AC 

S 

A 

G 

c 

oC  -  ^^20  A     (blue) 
M  ^  S}4^  A    (GnBfN) 

A   -'    5'.  sc  " 
C  -     sss" 


Shutter  Qat/a/g-       tAbi^ 


/^JjlT'W^l^ 

Colon  - 

-r  3 

QoWR"  f,f. 

Q)iPN6Fr.f. 

CDUA/r£Ji 

0 

4  (h) 

4> 

(i> 

1  (B) 

0 

0 

s.  Cd) 

<p 

1 

<P 

(p 

1 

1 

p 

1 

S. 

I 

i> 

0 

1 

<P 

1 

1 

1> 

^ 

1 

I 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

5. 

o< 


^ 


o< 


> 


A^<^LB  AN  Sri  E  ANUe 

ABC 


c< 


A 


A 


C< 


A 


o< 


A 


182 


«0 


U 

(A 


<HM-'^''^>  0 


J.   /.A^/r-X 


> 


1 /=: /^ 


T 


OC&. 


B^ 


^ 


^f/?^A1    ^3    Ci>l.MT£R) 


Qa 


I  oV 


2^K 


■^ 


■4 


-AW— f — H 


\oouF 

V^RlOb     CONTROL 
(range  =  /.6  -SO  Sec.^ 


/oo 


B 


A7o 


Sh  I 


^;^ 


3   /-ic.-i-iS 


.''-'H. 


A-^ 


^?-4t 


¥ 


<=>   \tO  -V 


1-Vt 


^7^ 


;;ap:-^c.) 


(fcK  AC) 


> 


1^5^  S 
(A) 


^ShC> 


2/ 


e 


^       CK ^ 


oC 


•/^ 


184 


Co 

(A 


^ 
^ 

vn 

^ 


N     I 


185 


A&T 


i:!;::!!:!;!:::::!:":; 

r — 

_ 

1 

0. 

0 
0 

'                 r_ 

1 

1 

a 

w 

o 

0 

Ztt'i  t.Zt,':  ZZ"^' 

It 

9  " 

^0 
0  — 

• 
e 

a  n 

7:  0 

33 

0 

c 

r. 
C 

• 

-n 

c 

D 
< 

P 

-n 

c 

< 

? 

E! 
ta 
15 

,^_^^ 

0 

c 

■0 

c 

►0 

b 

> 

0 

p 

-n 
1 

c 
< 

p 

•n 

c_ 

1 

0" 
< 

0 

ta 

(3 

„..^>..^<„.-,-.-u.= 

0 
< 

w..^^.>„c... -.-.„  = 

0 

r»  1 

o" 

?2 
0^ 

=  =  =  =  =  f.=  =  S^KS 

If 

•.«....t^o.~..u.u.  =  ~  = 

it 

0  = 
0 

0 

• 
• 

0  " 

0 

c 

b 
> 

0 
h 

■ 

*« 

0 

c 

> 

0 
h 

-°!? 

p7 

n- 

?2 

0^ 

1 

— -wi/<  1^  —  pj  oa  r^  C3  CO  — '  ie|  j^^     ^ 

1        - 

—  0 
0 

1 

„.J?=i' 

h  1 

<p  o       o  000  9 


UmiJ  Umsi. 


OMasu 


MGW 


n 


1 


nnju^in 


.<0  Q> 


9SiS).0.Q. 


nnnnjyri  njwo'oiri 


_ 

»  — 

o> 

I 
1 

0 

N 

3  = 

?a 

• 

^irt 

£7 

t^ 

•^  ° 

= 

p 

r»S 

^ 

0 

„**.^c.„»,-<-,.^  = 

If 

0 

■D 

C 

^- 

o~ 

.J 

•c 



-  in 

D 

f» 

0 

< 

0 

0 

> 

n 

0^ 

< 

D 

-I 

?o 

* 

"f  '^ 

o~ 

L 

— 

• 

« 

E 

%f 

5 

0 

r 

■n 

c 

?9 

^ 

■D 

^ 

Cl>= 

CO 

b 

0 
< 

<5 

<v 

n\v\> 

C3 

2. 

0  -  Q  1  D 

u. 

p 

13 

.=!i 

ro 

0=  • 

z  ~  =" 
z«  - 

9 

0 

1 

1 

0 

^0 

9  ~ 

3D 

0 

c 

■V 

c 

b 
> 

p 

TI 

V 
*; 

Q 

< 

P 
;-! 

TI 

C 

k 

0 

< 

Q 

to 

51 

IQ 
fl) 

c 
J 

*-b7iu-u  —  -ut^cscnaDiAV 

If 

0 

0  f^ 

0  - 

0 
0. 

„-w^^=.-.-u,Sj=X 

0 

0 

0 

c 

■0 

c 

0- 

b 
> 

p 

: 

< 
0  0 

—  c 

of 

0  — 

=~r:::^:;::-=^x~ 

la 
|"2 

0 

°"°'°"""'""°r" 

0 

_, 

■ 

7'~'~7*7*7'7"7^~T*7*T' 

3^^ 

0 

rs^ 

1 

1 

0 

2  0 

in 

^i-i.;  j-j.^:  ;.ui^\ 

?l 

-^^^.^^-^^c^^u,    -i    ^ 

>* 

''                                   "^ 

= 

0 

■p 

T! 

c 

So 

• 
0 

._.  _  ^^  '^  ..  .^  ii->  1^  '•-•  ^  U  fl     "  ^ 

a. 

c 

1 

r>~ 

CO 

0 

0 

< 

<« 

•f 

0 

( > 

* 

0 

* 

n 

p 

^ 

•*  0 

Q. 

<;r 

C    <»,n*'*  — w«»*-  — 0.-4  — 

>^ 

» 

0 

c 

TI 

c_ 

?o 

C^o 

c 

r 

.- 

0" 

*. 

0 

< 

0 

0 

0  -« 

> 

u 

—  «cn-.*.cn-JW>o«c/-.-.-° 

a. 

°"'"           '"         °sSi| 

0 

Ti. 

p 

n 

?o 

0 

0"* 

n    IT. 
O    n 


Wesley  Duke  Lee 

Born  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil,  1931 
Resident  Sao  Paulo 


186 


Hal  Glicksman  became  acquainted  with  the  work  of 
Brazilian  artist  Wesley  Duke  Lee  while  in  Sao  Paulo 
installing  the  1965  Bienal.  He  recomnfiended  that  we  ask 
Lee  to  submit  an  A  &  T  project  proposal,  and  in  Febru- 
ary, 1969,  we  wrote  to  the  artist  to  this  effect.  In  March 
he  replied  enthusiastically,  stating  that  in  June  en  route 
to  Tokyo  (where  he  was  to  install  his  Helicopter  piece  at 
the  Museum  of  Modern  Art)  he  could  stop  off  in  Los 
Angeles  and  discuss  this  possibility. 

When  he  arrived  in  town,  HG  took  him  to  Information 
International  and  to  Hall  Surgical  Systems  in  Santa 
Barbara,  a  small  company  which  produces  air-driven 
surgical  drills.  Lee  was  intrigued  by  his  visit  to  Hall, 
especially  by  Dr.  Hall  himself,  and  promised  that  while 
in  Tokyo,  he  would  work  out  an  idea  for  presentation  to 
us  and  the  company.  On  June  14  he  wrote  to  us,  describ- 
ing The  Birth  Capsule,  or  The  Suspended  Pneuma  of  Los 
Angeles: 

I  think  I  have  already  hit  upon  an  idea;  it  can  be 
easily  constructed  and  would  be  a  continuation  of  the 
Helicopter,  deepening  the  idea  that,  if  you  could 
provoke  a  full  regression  in  time  in  an  adult  person, 
he  would  be  suddenly  enlightened  about  his  origin 
and  his  main  problems,  thus  taking  full  consciousness 
of  himself,  his  environment,  his  time;  so  I  arrived  at 
The  Birth  Capsule  or  The  Suspended  Pneuma  of  Los 
Angeles. 

The  piece  in  itself  would  be  a  plastic  or  glass  box 
3x3x3  meters  (a  cube)  in  which  the  observer  would 
go  in,  put  on  his  space  suit,  look  at  himself,  adjust  his 
'Air  Helmet'  from  which  he  Is  going  to  breathe,  and 
receive  the  special  smells  of:  blood-shit-sea-forest,  and 
hear  the  sound  of  a  heart  beating  plus  the  blood 
running  through  his  vessels;  after  he  presses  several 
buttons  of  his  'hand  control  panel'  a  quantity  of  air 
would  go  in  the  capsule  and  press  him  or  support  him 
(if  he  decides  to  lean  forward!).  Then  the  whole  box 
would  start  getting  dark,  to  pitch  dark,  then  slowly 
turn  to  red,  then  to  some  kind  of  mirror  surface  (so 


i)' 


V 


3Wtt  Cait 


187 


A&T 


\\^jutM]m 


l^   6k  fft^iL 


1 


^H= 


i:. 


■f:^' 


I-  >- 


^^j;^^^,,5»n.^    bUJ^  ^^■'^ 


^^>^  ^r^,^. 


Chp^^^iciL  cn^J- 


as  to  reflect  him  to  himself)  then  to  yellow,  then  to 
white  or  transparent  and  the  air  would  go  out  and 
decompress  the  camera.  To  do  this  the  walls  would  be 
made  of  five  sheets  of  plastic  so  as  to  make  a  space 
between  each  other  where  compressed  air  introduces 
a  colored  liquid  to  tint  the  capsule.  [1]  The  whole 
mechanism  would  be  the  two  principles  of  air: 
positive  air  and  negative  air.  The  negative  would  be  in 
the  pads  below  the  capsule  that  would  allow  a  second 
person  to  move  the  capsule  with  the  person  around 
the  room  while  'he  is  getting  born.' 

The  plans  for  construction  would  depend  on  some 
information  from  technicians  as  to  how  much  pres- 
sure a  person  or  'an  average  person'  can  hold,  site  of 
materials,  etc. 

I  read  the  catalogs  from  JPL  and  maybe  I  can  use 
some  ideas  from  their  construction  of  space  capsules, 
if  it  is  possible. 

In  addition  to  its  direct  inspiration  from  the  artist's  visit 
to  Hall  Surgical  Systems,  the  inception  of  the  Birth 
Capsule  is  related  to  his  three  previous  environments;  it 
is  the  fourth  in  a  group  of  five  such  rooms  (the  last  is 
still  in  a  conceptual  state)  which  comprise  a  series 
entitled  The  Five  Stages  of  Man.  In  different  ways  each 
of  these  environments  is  meant  to  involve  the  viewer  at  a 
"profound  psychological  level."  Lee  later  indicated 
several  other  sources  for  the  Birth  Capsule  idea.  At  one 
point  he  wrote  to  us  on  the  back  of  a  Xerox  copy  of  a 
Zap  comic  strip,  indicating  that  the  Birth  Capsule  was 
inspired  by  this  particular  Victor  Moscoso  cartoon  and 
by  a  statement  of  the  Greek  philosopher  Anaximenes, 
"As  our  soul  being  air  sustains  us,  so  pneuma  and  air 
pervade  the  whole  world."  [2]  In  addition  he  later 
commented  that  "capsule"  refers  to  space  travel  and  the 
piece  itself  is  a  sociological  comment  on  the  state  of 
consciousness  that  prevails  as  a  result  of  the  drive  to 
master  space.  He  said. 

The  farther  away  we  go  in  space,  the  more  frustrated 
we  become;  going  to  the  moon  has  to  do  with  power; 
it's  a  political  power  play.  It's  already  boring,  essen- 
tially. I'm  trying  to  deal  in  fast  processes  of  commun- 
ication; something  that  could  shorten  all  the  fears  we 
have  of  getting  together.  And  I  think  we  only  do  that 
by  full  examination  of  our  structure,  and  this  is  what 
the  Capsule  is  about.  1  have  an  idea  which  is  not 
mine;  it  comes  from  a  lot  of  reading  in  psychology 
and  my  admiration  for  Freud.  If  you  could  re-enact 
the  birth  process  and  your  whole  life  seen  with  the 
adult  eye,  you  would  have  at  your  disposal  a  life 
power  which  can  be  used  to  live  with  your  fears.  So 
my  dream  was  to  invent  a  machine  so  that  man  could 
be  exposed  for  a  short  period  and  would  be  so 
shocked  by  the  experience  that  he  would  automat- 
ically start  to  revise  himself. 


When  Lee  returned  from  Japan  in  July,  he  and  HG  met 
with  Dr.  Hall,  to  whom  the  artist  described  in  detail  the 
Birth  Capsule  idea.  On  the  basis  of  Hall's  encouraging 
comments  and  suggestions,  Lee  agreed  to  research 
certain  problematic  areas— such  as  the  feasibility  of 
extracting  and  projecting  odors  and  the  amount  of 
pressure  the  human  body  might  safely  withstand  in  the 
space  suit— and  to  refine  the  mechanism.  Hall  offered  the 
assistance  of  one  of  his  design  engineers,  but  after 
waiting  for  two  weeks  for  this  man  to  free  himself  from 
other  duties,  Lee  set  out  independently  to  seek  advice 
on  these  problems.  With  the  help  of  our  corporation 
roster,  Lee  met  with  numerous  technical  experts,  such  as 
Dr.  Francis  J.  Petracek,  a  medical  chemist  at  Dart 
Industries'  Riker  Laboratories,  and  Carlos  Diaz  de 
Villalivilla,  research  chemist  at  Max  Factor,  both  of 
whom  provided  helpful  information  not  only  about 
distilling  the  odors,  but  also  about  the  mechanical 
design.  With  Dr.  Edward  Wortz  of  Garrett  Corporation's 
Life  Sciences  Division,  Lee  discussed  the  air  pressure 
system.  Hall  had  also  introduced  the  artist  to  a  young 
mechanical  engineer,  Peter  Mele,  who  was  interested  in 
assisting  Wesley. 

Early  in  September,  Lee  estimated  the  total  cost  of  the 
project  and  presented  his  findings  to  Hall,  who  agreed  to 
provide  financial  and  whatever  technical  support  he 
could  toward  realizing  the  project.  Hall  made  arrange- 
ments (unique  among  all  the  budgetary  procedures  for 
A  &  T  artists)  for  Lee  to  purchase  necessary  materials 
and  pay  for  labor,  on  a  special  Hall  "Art  and  Tech- 
nology" checking  account. 


189 


A&T 


OPTICAL  iA>Aj< 


®_ 

4- 

-Ui 

9^^ 

^ 

c::, 


o-^. 


^c 


-       l'C)7<!t«^ 


TPHJS  iS^^^Irl  CffPSU  It'E 


190 


With  Hall's  commitment  confirmed,  Lee's  travels 
throughout  Southern  California  began  in  earnest.  In  the 
course  of  the  project  he  dealt  with  over  forty  companies, 
individuals  and  small  businesses,  covering  14,300  miles 
from  Santa  Barbara  to  San  Diego.  Lee  and  his  assistant 
labored  indefatigably  to  design  the  capsule  and  its 
mechanisms.  The  walls  of  the  tank  were  at  first  intended 
to  be  eight  foot  square  sheets  of  plate  glass,  constructed 
in  two  layers,  for  the  passage  of  various  fluids.  However, 
several  consultants  had  expressed  serious  doubt  that 
glass  walls  would  be  strong  enough  to  withstand  the 
pressure  of  the  flowing  liquids.  Lee  and  Mele  investi- 
gated substituting  plexiglass  instead  and  contacted 
numerous  local  plastic  firms  for  estimates.  Ray  Products 
in  Alhambra  took  the  job  and  promised  delivery  in 
November.  Meanwhile  construction  of  the  mechanical 
system  began  at  Gold  Divers,  a  manufacturer  of  portable 


underwater  mining  equipment,  located  in  Hawthorne.  At 
Gold  Divers  Lee  refined  the  programming  cycle.  He 
outlined  "the  twenty  steps  to  birth  an  adult": 

1 .  Enter  Capsule 

2.  Close  door 

3.  Put  suit  on 

4.  Press  button  ON  OFF  Button  deflates  suit— open 
door— system  continues 

5.  Capsule  lift 

Ventilation  system  in  helmet— sound  system  in 

helmet 

Capsule  lights  on 

6.  Dark  period  starts 

7.  Suit  inflates 

8.  Smell  of  blood 

9.  Red  bubbles  start 

10.  Empty  black 

1 1 .  Smell  of  shit  and  sex 

12.  Empty  red  bubbles 

13.  Room  lights  off 

14.  Ocean  smells  start 

15.  Yellow  period  starts 

16.  Forest  smell  starts 

17.  Empty  yellow  starts 

18.  Release  air  from  suit 

19.  Door  opens 

20.  Lower  capsule 


LOS  ANGELES 


<•/  >-<^   /■r'J--v  f^''-^   ^  ii^\^     4^  -.y^'^/j 


K&ilA 


^4T- 


-^mmmmju 


COMPANY    tWC. 


00  LO 


QO«L  1.,  CHECUV  U 


Mainland  heating 

' '  AMD  AJB'CONDmONtKG       _ 


£'M<'. 


Henry  del  Giudice 


A   World  al  \r«  l;o-l,.fl.  Tlitu  Plutliri 

I A  A  J  PLASTICS 

^  I^^IBB^H    JOHN  A.  MfERMK 


[ffay :  PRODUCTS  INC  I 


VENTRO  MACHINE   PRODUCTS,    INC. 


-  i  z  ;  -     £  Z  - 


191 


A&T 


^1 


t 

■51  ; 

<l 
■s  ■ 


1:^ 


^i-Me'  vff^e 


>-vA(x 


^'..■'1 


^ 

^ 


\L     -^ 


¥ 


rr 


"-^^■A 


''<s^  B«'i 


•tt-K 


c 


or 


V 


C<-''^ 


fOLU 


^     ye-iJt^Ul   r- 


St^t'l    ' 


i.  ivip-ni 


Pilif  SBi<f  it   ?'tp.CfJ6- 


192 


For  several  weeks  work  progressed  on  these  separate 
fronts,  but  by  early  November  a  series  of  delays  and 
schedule  setbacks  occurred.  Then,  on  Novennber  22,  Hall 
indicated  that  his  company  could  expend  no  further 
funds  on  the  project.  Wesley  was  startled  and  upset,  but 
determined  to  see  the  project  through.  Since  the  major 
components  of  the  Birth  Capsule  ■<Ne'ie  nearing  comple- 
tion, we  decided  to  underwrite  the  few  remaining 
estimated  expenses  from  our  "materials"  budget. 

Construction  continued  at  Gold  Divers,  and  by  the 
middle  of  December  the  plexiglass  walls  of  the  chamber 
were  completed  and  the  unit  was  ready  for  testing  with 
the  fluid  pump  system.  Lee  was  of  course  extremely 
anxious  to  see  the  Birth  Capsule  In  operation  for  the 
first  time,  and  he  and  the  designers  of  the  cubicle  were 
prepared  to  celebrate  the  long-awaited  culmination  of 
their  efforts.  The  injection  system  was  turned  on,  the 
liquid  was  forced  by  air  pressure  between  the  sheets  of 
plastic  forming  the  walls  of  the  cell,  and  one  entire  side 
immediately  cracked.  The  material  used,  which  already 
represented  a  considerable  expense,  was  clearly  not 
strong  enough  to  withstand  the  pressure  required  to 
inject  the  flowing  liquid,  and  thus  it  was  not  simply  a 
question  of  replacing  the  damaged  component,  but  of 
re-designing  the  entire  structure  with  heavier  gauge 
plexiglass.  At  this  point  the  project  foundered.  Without 
the  unilateral  supervision  of  a  company  prepared  to 
make  a  sustained  and  well  organized  commitment  to 
execute  the  Birth  Capsule,  it  was  destined  to  remain 
unrealized. 

From  the  beginning  of  his  involvement  in  the  program, 
Lee  had  kept  a  journal  on  the  project,  containing  sketch- 
es, calculations,  and  notes  documenting  every  stage  of 
the  Birth  Capsule's  development.  He  kept  meticulous 
accounts  of  every  expenditure  and  every  individual  or 
company  approached  along  the  way.  Excerpts  from  this 
journal  follow: 

My  feeling  is:  There's  a  form  of  corruption  in  these 
people,  they  go  through  life  without  knowing  what  is 
the  meaning  of  'Ethics'— consequently  they  wish  to 
know  even  less  about  Esthetics,  which  puts  an  end  to 
the  possibility  of  Art  and  Technology  to  come 
together,  for  Ethics  and  Esthetics  is  the  very  base  of 
Art.  So,  my  project  is  running  the  possibility  of  being 
considered  incomplete  for  the  exhibition  ....  The 
distaste  for  technology  increases,  and  for  the  man 
that  deals  with  it.  I  haven't  met  yet  a  'Technologist.' 
What  I  have  dealt  with  until  now  is  'employees'  of 
corporations  that  exploit  minor  results  of  technology. 
Something  should  be  changed.  This  new  race  carries 
the  same  'pomp'  that  medical  doctors  have.  And  that 
bothers  me  quite  a  bit ...  . 

Da  Vinci  gradually  slowed  down  more  and  more  in 
his  painting  until  it  finally  became  completely  inhibi- 


ted as  he  turned  to  science— a  turning  away  for  which 
da  Vinci  apparently  bitterly  condemned  himself  as  he 
lay  dying.  Technology  to  start  with  is  in  a  very  crude 
state  in  comparison  with  art,  that  has  a  much  longer 
tradition.  The  'crazy  dream'  comes  when  you  try  to 
melt  the  two  together.  If  we  want  to  go  further 
technology  will  have  to,  first,  pay  full  tribute  to 
art— go  through  a  process  of  modesty— which  I  think 
very  difficult  in  our  time— when  apparently  the  'wings 
of  success'  touched  several  projects— like  going  to  the 
moon!  Now  we  have  to  go  to  other  planets,  because 
going  to  the  moon  did  not  answer  'The  Question'  and 
brought  no  pleasure.  Before  technology  learns  about 
'Pleasure'— Art  is  Ahead— And  I  will  stick  to  it. 

Before  leaving  Los  Angeles,  Wesley  wrote  to  MT,  sum- 
marizing his  experience: 

Basically,  it  made  me  reconsider  painting  as  my  most 
important  output,  and  that  all  the  dealings  that  I  had 
with  machines,  technology,  and  such,  were  connected 
to  a  very  neurotic  process,  which  I  used  as  a  substi- 
tute to  my  natural  resources  and  ways  of  expression. 

Your  exhibition  exposed  me  to  a  complete  situation. 
Through  the  process  of  'building  the  birth  capsule'  I 
trapped  myself  (naturally  with  a  lot  of  help  from 
Acapuico  Gold)  into  seeing  the  'sin'  I  was  commit- 
ting. First  to  myself,  through  deviating  from  my 
natural  and  best  ways  of  expression.  Second,  against 
Nature,  you  don't  build  a  mechanical  womb!  as  in  the 
same  way  you  don't  take  heaven  by  assault!!! 

I  committed  the  sin  that  many  have  before  me,  who 
believed  in  a  perfect  imitation  of  nature. 

For  me  this  is  the  jewel  of  the  whole  project,  this 
discovery  about  me  and  my  time.  So  the  Birth  Cap- 
sule will  be  my  last  endeavor  along  this  path.  I  will 
work  from  now  on,  on  'the  magic  of  arrest  time'  on  a 
piece  of  linen  with  a  few  brushes  and  pencils,  nothing 
should  move,  but  your  mind,  and  that's  a  secret  I 
discovered  only  now. 

On  October  31,  1970,  Lee  wrote  us, 

I've  been  thinking  that  the  Birth  Capsule  is  the  most 
important  work  I've  done  so  far;  even  though  you 
haven't  seen  anything  concrete,  I  know  that  it  is 
almost  finished  ....  The  importance  of  this  piece  to 
me  is  that  never  before  has  a  Brazilian  artist  engaged 
in  a  project  of  this  importance,  and  it  would  remove 
some  of  the  distrust  that  exists  about  our  art.  Maybe 
this  is  not  relevant  to  you,  but  it  is  capital  for  our 
environment,  and  I  am  interested  in  the  development 
of  things  here  and  the  repercussions  it  would  have 
....  If  you  come  to  Brazil  you  will  understand  my 
reasons  .... 


Les  Levine 

Born  Dublin,  Ireland,  1936 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


Les  Levine  was  one  of  the  few  nationally  known  artists 
to  contact  us  with  an  unsolicited  proposal.  In  Novennber, 
1968,  he  sent  us  the  following  letter  indicating  his 
interest  in  Art  and  Technology: 

Donald  Droll  tells  me  that  you  are  doing  a  show 
which  involves  artists  and  connpanies  and  he  suggests  I 
contact  you  directly. 

I  have  been  working  in  this  area  for  some  time  and 
have  been  successful  in  obtaining  some  cooperation 
from  large  companies.  As  a  matter  of  fact  for  almost 
five  years  this  kind  of  cooperation  has  been  kernel  to 
my  work.  In  the  past  I  have  worked  with  both  Ameri- 
can Cyanamid  Co.  and  Eastman  Kodak.  I  am  present- 
ly working  in  the  area  of  television.  Perhaps  you  are 
familiar  with  my  large  plastic  environmental  works. 

I  would  consider  it  of  enormous  value  to  my  work  to 
be  able  to  work  with  a  company  in  the  area  of  plas- 
tics or  of  video  equipment. 

In  subsequent  staff  meetings  we  discussed  the  possibility 
of  Levine's  participation  in  connection  with  both  Am- 
pex  and  the  Container  Corporation  of  America— Ampex 
for  audio-visual  equipment,  and  CCA  for  mass  produced 
"disposable"  works  of  art. 

In  February  we  contacted  Levine  and  invited  him  to 
tour  these  two  facilities.  He  arrived  on  April  14,  and  Gail 
Scott  accompanied  him  to  Container.  He  was  enthusi- 
astic about  their  four  color  lithography  press  on  which 
they  print  six  foot  square  sheets  for  margarine,  deter- 
gent, and  other  consumer  product  packaging.  He  consid- 
ered their  printing  process  more  "contemporary"  than 
the  leading  lithography  art  workshops.  Although  Levine 
was  certain  he  could  easily  make  a  "disposable"  or 
giveaway  item,  he  was  not  enthralled  by  the  idea,  assert- 
ing that  with  the  experience  he  had  had  with  more 
sophisticated  technology,  it  would  be  a  wasted  oppor- 
tunity for  him  merely  to  produce  an  object.  Levine 
suggested  that  instead  of  a  one-artist  to  one-company 
match  at  CCA,  we  should  invite  each  artist  participating 
in  A  &  T  to  execute  a  large  lithographic  print  on  their 
four  color  press— a  proposal  to  which  we  subsequently 
gave  serious  consideration. 

The  next  day  GS  and  Levine  flew  to  Ampex  with  the 
hope  that  their  advanced  audio-visual  equipment  might 
be  of  greater  interest  to  the  artist.  Levine  was  intrigued 
with  their  small-scale  television  studio,  housing  a  sophis- 
ticated array  of  broadcasting  equipment  including 
Ampex's  RA-400  machine;  a  random  access  videotape 
programmer,  an  elaborate  closed-circuit  television  set-up; 
and  a  multi-track  tapie  recorder  with  a  modular  expan- 
sion of  eight  to  twenty-four  channels. 

Levine  was  certain  that,  given  an  opportunity  to  experi- 


ment with  these  resources,  he  could  create  something— 
probably  involving  specially  designed  equipment  rather 
than  Ampex's  standard  products.  He  proposed  spending 
some  time  at  the  company  without  outlining  any  defi- 
nite project.  He  desired  a  completely  open-ended  situa- 
tion without  being  restricted  to  a  preconceived  idea.  We 
were  in  accord  with  this  plan,  but  Ampex  insisted  on 
following  their  option  to  request  from  Levine  and  us 
detailed  descriptions  of  the  scope  of  the  project  before 
agreeing  in  principle  to  work  with  the  artist. 

Levine  agreed  to  study  Ampex  product  brochures, 
consider  the  information  gleaned  from  his  visit,  and 
contact  us  with  some  sort  of  proposal.  On  April  22  he 
sent  the  following  sketchy  description  of  his  intention: 
Enclosed  is  a  rough  idea  of  what  I  want  to  do  and  it  is 
not  at  all  worked  out  at  this  point  for  obvious  good 
reasons  as  I  think  it  is  important  to  keep  the  system 
open. 

I  would  also  probably  want  to  use  their  television 
studio  for  the  production  of  a  T.V.  special  but  this  is 
something  I  could  probably  work  out  after  their 
initial  involvement. 

I  hope  that  this  will  be  of  some  help  and  if  there  are 
any  further  questions  we  could  talk  about  them  when 
I  get  back  from  London. 

Project  for  Ampex  Corporation  is  to  create  audio- 
visual model  of  a  human  being.  A  piece  that  will 
allow  the  spectator  to  consider  himself  as  though 
he  were  a  working  model. 

The  audio  aspect  would  permit  the  viewer  to  hear 
whatever  sounds  can  be  detected  from  his  own 
body  as  it  moved  through  space,  played  back  on 
several  channels  such  as  pulse,  heart  beat,  blood 
flow,  muscle  manipulation,  etc. 

The  visual  aspect  of  the  piece  would  allow  any 
movement  to  be  seen  from  all  its  possible  views  as 
somebody  other  than  the  subject  would  see  it.  To 
paraphrase  this  idea  I  suggest  that  a  man  driving  in 
an  automobile  should  be  able  to  have  inside  his 
automobile  the  view  of  his  automobile  that  a 
hitchhiker  could  obtain. 

The  system  will  probably  require  several  small 
television  cameras  and  monitors  and  some  record- 
ing equipment  for  delay  processes.  It  will  also 
probably  require  some  switching  devices  and 
information  storage. 

We  informed  Ampex  of  Levine's  plans  but  they  declined 
to  accept  his  proposal,  indicating  that  it  exceeded  their 
financial  and  technical  commitment  to  A  &  T. 


Roy  Lichtenstein 

Born  New  York  City,  1923 
Resident  New  York  City 


194 


From  the  earliest  staff  meeting  in  the  Spring  of  1968, 
Roy  Lichtenstein  was  considered  by  us  in  connection 
with  Universal  Film  Studios.  MT  saw  Lichtenstein  in 
June  in  New  York,  described  A  &  T,  mentioned  some 
available  companies  and  suggested  that  the  artist  tour 
Universal.  Roy  was  interested,  and  although  he  was 
unable  to  travel  West  until  the  Fall,  we  were  so  confi- 
dent of  his  collaboration  that  we  postponed  considera- 
tion of  any  other  artist  for  Universal  until  after  his  visit. 

Lichtenstein  toured  the  studio  on  September  12,  1968. 
In  two  days  he  visited  most  of  Universal's  key  facilities 
on  their  vast  grounds  in  the  San  Fernando  Valley. 
Several  department  heads  explained  the  capacities  of  the 
film  laboratories,  including  optics,  cutting,  editing  and 
special  effects.  There  was  a  visit  to  the  set  of  Topaz, 
then  being  filmed;  and  a  behind-the-scenes  look  at  the 
mechanical  set-ups  for  the  public  tour  of  the  studio. 
Lichtenstein  was  enthusiastic  about  Universal's  facilities 
and  was  introduced  to  Alexander  Golitzen,  Supervising 
Art  Director,  who  was  established  as  our  primary  con- 
tact man.  The  artist  also  met  several  top  executives,  two 
of  whom  had  Lichtenstein  lithographs  hanging  in  their 
offices.  There  was  no  problem  in  obtaining  Universal's 
agreement  to  work  with  Lichtenstein  as  artist-in-resi- 
dence,  even  though  he  had  made  no  indication  as  to  the 
nature  of  the  work  he  might  do  there. 

Before  Roy  returned  home,  he  said  he  would  probably 
work  with  film.  This  was  a  surprise  to  us,  and,  we  later 
learned,  to  Universal.  Comic  strips,  basic  to  Lichten- 
stein's  past  work,  possess,  at  least  for  him,  a  distinct 
cinematic  quality— he  mentioned  how  narrative  is  devel- 
oped in  comics  with  abrupt  compositional  transitions 
from  close-up  to  aerial  to  interior  views,  etc.  One  pro- 
posal which  he  outlined  would  be  a  sequence  of  shots  of 
a  woman's  face  with  contrasting  lighting  (for  example, 
green  light  on  the  left,  red  on  the  right),  or  tattooed 
with  dots,  or  with  varieties  of  makeup.  He  rejected  this 
plan  because  it  was  too  "zippy,"  or  slick;  also  it  would 
have  been  too  expensive  and  elaborate  an  enterprise  to 


195 


A&T 


justify  the  idea.  He  was  also  intrigued  with  making  a 
literally  "moving  picture."  On  the  basis  of  this  pun,  he 
proposed  a  series  of  landscape  moving  pictures.  The 
films,  displayed  as  a  group,  would  be  sequences  of 
landscape  fragments— water,  clouds,  sky— in  combination 
with  synthetic  images  such  as  textured  aluminum  for 
sunrays  or  a  Ben  Day  dot  grid  for  sky.  He  wanted  it  to 
look  "fairly  phoney." 

Lichtenstein  affirms  a  direct  relationship  between  the 
films  and  his  1964-65  series  of  landscape  collages  made 
from  heterogeneous  materials— shiny,  textured  plastics 
and  metals  resembling  rays  of  sunlight  or  expanses  of 
undulating  water.  [1]  Some  of  these  collages  were 
kinetic,  incorporating  motor-driven  parts  to  simulate 
moving  water  or  daylight  to  night-light  changes.  The  idea 
for  showing  the  films  simultaneously  on  different 
screens  derived  from  the  installation  of  kinetic  land- 
scapes at  the  Pasadena  Art  Museum's  Lichtenstein 
exhibition  in  1967.  They  were  displayed  side  by  side  and 
their  different  rates  of  motion  fascinated  the  artist. 

Our  initial  impression  of  Roy's  idea  was  that  it  was  too 
simple;  we  were  later  disabused  of  this  opinion.  We 


encouraged  him  to  develop  his  idea  for  films  and  exploit 
Universal's  technology  and  expertise.  Lichtenstein  felt 
his  best  work  in  the  past  had  always  evolved  from  a 
basically  simple  concept  and  that  he  might  attempt 
something  more  complex  after  his  primary  project  was 
accomplished. 

Lichtenstein  returned  on  February  3,  1969  and  was 
given  as  a  studio  Jack  Benny's  old  dressing  rooms.  He 
had  decided  to  do  the  landscape,  or  as  they  turned  out, 
seascape  films.  Each  sequence  would  be  divided  by  a 
heavy  black  "horizon"  line.  Above  it  would  be  a  "sky" 
image,  either  clouds  of  a  blue  expanse,  or  a  grid  pattern 
of  Ben  Day  dots;  below  would  be  a  rippling  water 
surface,  or  an  underwater  scene  with  tropical  fish,  or, 
again,  the  dot  pattern.  Some  of  the  image  combinations 
would  rock  slowly  back  and  forth  as  if  the  camera  were 
in  a  boat.  Roy  stressed  two  requirements  for  the  film: 
that  it  be  projected  in  such  a  way  that  the  viewer  would 
not  see  or  interfere  with  the  light  source  or  mechanics  of 
the  system,  so  that  the  film  would  appear  to  exist 
autonomously,  as  a  painting;  and  that  the  images  be 
exceptionally  clear  and  precise. 


•X-Xv 


196 


Although  his  ideas  were  intelligible,  if  not  yet  complete- 
ly defined,  and  his  demands  were  by  no  means  beyond 
the  capability  of  the  Universal  facilities  and  experts,  it 
seemed  difficult  for  them  to  comprehend  why  he  wished 
to  use  film  in  this  way  or  combine  images  of  this  sort. 
Despite  their  uncertainty  as  to  the  esthetic  intentions  of 
the  artist,  they  were  eager  to  evolve  a  method  for  pro- 
jecting the  films  as  Lichtenstein  wished.  The  only  rear 
screen  projection  system  developed  to  date  required 
forty  feet  of  throw  between  screen  and  projector,  which 


was  processed  the  results  were  unsatisfactory  for  several 
reasons;  the  color  could  not  be  controlled,  as  the  dots 
and  ocean  required  different  exposures;  the  foreground 
of  dots  and  background  of  ocean  could  not  be  held  in 
focus  simultaneously;  and  by  tilting  the  camera,  they 
could  not  simulate  the  water's  movement  successfully 
because  of  the  "depth  of  field"  phenomenon.  After  this 
unsuccessful  attempt,  they  decided  to  film  the  natural 
landscape  fragments  and  the  dots  separately,  combine 
the  images  on  film,  add  horizon  line  and  rocking  motion, 
and  synchronize  the  whole  in  an  optical  laboratory. 

They  filmed  clouds,  various  bodies  of  water  in  both 
color  and  black  and  white,  and  tropical  fish  in  a  tank. 
Roy  particularly  wanted  a  series  of  sunrise,  daylight, 
sunset  and  starlight  sequences  in  which  the  sun  would 
rise  and  set  in  a  vertical  course  directly  in  the  center  of 
the  picture,  not  in  an  arc  as  is  apparent  in  nature.  To 
film  a  sunrise  over  the  Atlantic  and  keep  the  sun  in  the 
center  of  the  scene  required  an  elaborate  time  exposure 
procedure.  The  sequence  was  made  frame  by  frame  in 
intervals  of  two  minutes.  The  camera  was  shifted  after 
each  shot  to  keep  the  sun  in  the  center.  But  this  effort 
resulted  in  failure.  In  the  print  the  sun  wiggled  back  and 
forth.  Another  unsatisfactory  trial  was  made,  using  a 
telescope  calibrated  to  the  camera. 


would  be  an  impractical  use  of  exhibition  space.  Cus- 
tomarily, a  series  of  mirrors  is  used  to  reduce  the  dis- 
tance between  projector  and  screen  but  this  results  in  a 
loss  of  clarity.  Universal  technicians  agreed  to  investigate 
ways  to  shorten  the  projection  throw  without  sacrificing 
quality. 

By  this  time  the  logistics  of  the  project  became  a  pri- 
mary concern.  Because  of  other  commitments  Roy 
could  only  stay  in  California  for  about  two  weeks,  but  it 
was  necessary  that  he  be  closely  involved  in  every  stage 
of  the  operation,  particularly  in  the  initial  steps  of 
selecting  certain  types  of  images  to  be  filmed.  It  was 
agreed  that  on  his  return  to  New  York  he  would  consult 
with  his  friend  Joel  Freedman  of  Cinnamon  Productions 
and  propose  the  idea  of  working  with  Freedman  on 
some  experimental  filming. 

In  his  New  York  studio,  Roy  made  a  series  of  sketches 
showing  fifteen  variations  of  combined  images.  [2]  With 
these  drawings  and  a  precise  idea  of  the  imagery  and 
effect  he  sought,  Roy  approached  Freedman.  After 
studying  the  problems  and  searching  for  suitable  loca- 
tions, Freedman,  Roy  and  two  technical  assistants  began 
filming  near  the  artist's  summer  house  at  Southampton, 
Long  Island.  For  the  first  attempt  the  assistants  stood  on 
the  ocean  shore  and  held  a  four  by  six  foot  wooden 
board,  painted  with  blue  dots  on  a  white  field,  suspend- 
ed over  the  water.  The  camera  was  rocked  back  and 
forth  to  simulate  the  motion  of  a  boat.  When  this  film 


Roy  returned  to  Los  Angeles  in  July  with  the  sample 
footage.  Golitzen  arranged  a  screening  of  this  film  for  us 
and  several  Universal  technicians  including  William 
Wade,  head  of  Camera  Department,  James  Phillips  of 
Projection  Department,  and  Wes  Thompson,  head  of 
Process  and  Projection.  The  moving  water  shots  (some  of 
which  Roy  had  filmed  himself)  were  especially  impres- 
sive. In  the  next  few  days  Lichtenstein  selected  footage 
from  Universal's  film  library  of  sequences  which  he  and 
Freedman  had  been  unable  to  shoot— an  airplane  passing 
horizontally  through  the  sky  and  going  through  a  cloud 
bank,  as  well  as  certain  sunlight  and  artificial  starlight 
shots.  He  asked  to  have  these  sent  to  him  in  New  York. 
Again,  Lichtenstein  opted  to  return  to  his  New  York 
studio  and  his  summer  house  in  Southampton,  where  he 


197 


A&T 


<^- 


-i- 


(2/ 


^ 


W  ®  ©  »  dC> " 


^C^U^ 


n 


ax-l- 


•^y 


^^^^ 


^ 


,^^ 


"^^^^^ 


ft, 


-  ,<zfc.^Ji-'l-<- 


_:  -K>-.<Jh^  cs 


^.^ 


r" 


n 


^^ 


^^rr 


and  Freedman  would  continue  filming  and  editing.  Roy 

commented  later, 

I  think  .  .  .  that  had  I  been  in  California  and  lived 
there,  I  could  have  really  worked  with  them  closely 
but  as  it  turned  out,  most  of  this  was  done  with  Joel 
Freedman  in  Cinnamon  Productions.  He's  a  freelance. 
Independent  film  maker  who  lives  in  New  York  and  it 
was  easy  for  me  to  work  with  him  and  get  the  film 
made.  It  was  a  question  of  proximity  and  of  course 
our  friendship  more  than  anything  else.  Universal  was 
perfectly  willing  to  give  me  all  the  help  I  needed,  but 
I  wasn't  there.  And  some  of  these  things  have  to  be 
filmed  and  looked  at  and  color-corrected,  and  you 
can't  really— although  they  would  be  willing— fly 
things  back  and  forth.  So  most  of  the  work  took 
place  between  Joel  Freedman  and  me,  even  though 
Universal  footed  the  bill.  I  learned  a  lot  about  how  to 
proceed  from  them. 

The  disturbing  thing  I  feel  about  any  idea  that  people 
present  to  me  (and  I  think  there  is  a  tendency  to 
present  artists  with  things  to  do— everybody's  doing 
that— they  have  projects  they  want  done  and  they 
want  certain  artists  to  do  it.  It's  the  same  ten  artists 
all  the  time,  but  that's  something  else)  is  that  you're 
getting  led  by  other  people's  ideas.  Sometimes  it's 
interesting  and  sometimes  you  get  into  things  that  are 
useful  and  lead  you  to  interesting  things;  but  other 
times  it's  like  filling  orders.  I  didn't  really  get  that 
feeling  in  this  project,  I  must  say,  but  there  are  so 


198 


many  things  that  people  want  you  to  do.  I  think  you 
could  fill  orders  and  never  go  in  your  own  direction.  I 
prefer  not  to  be  led  ....  I  like  to  work  in  my  studio 
and  let  one  painting  lead  to  the  other. 

We  were  seriously  considering  Lichtenstein's  project  for 
the  Expo  show  and  asked  Alexander  Golitzen  to  advise 
us  about  a  projection  system  for  displaying  the  films.  In 
discussing  this  with  Lichtenstein,  we  described  the 
special  conditions  of  a  World's  Fair  exhibition— particu- 
larly the  massive  crowds  expected  to  pour  through  the 
U.S.  Pavilion— and  explained  that  there  would  be  room 
to  have  only  two  screens,  rather  than  the  optimum 
arrangement  of  ten  to  twelve.  Lichtenstein  then  selected 
two  seascape  sequences  he  felt  were  suitable.  One  was  a 
sequence  of  gently  moving  blue-white-black  water  below 
with  blue  dots  on  a  white  field  above;  the  other  used 
footage  of  rippling  sunset-lit  water  below  and  blue  sky 
above,  with  a  white  seagull  poised  in  flight  but  station- 
ary. [3]  The  water  in  each  rocked  back  and  forth,  but  at 
different  rates.  He  had  eliminated  the  scenes  with 
tropical  fish,  and  those  with  the  passing  clouds-passing 
water  combination,  because  those  images  were  too 
exotic  or  interesting. 


To  satisfy  Lichtenstein's  standards  of  quality,  the  job  of 
editing  and  composing  each  film  loop  became  a  complex 
task,  involving  much  consultation  with  optics  and 
animation  experts.  First  it  was  necessary  to  determine 
the  exact  composition  of  the  images.  After  filming  many 
shots  of  seagulls— both  flocks  and  single  birds— Roy 
selected  a  bird  image  that  he  liked,  but  it  appeared  in  the 
wrong  section  of  frame  on  the  original  film.  It  was  cut 
out  from  the  frame,  blown  up  and  remounted  on  a  field 
of  blue  sky  in  the  correct  location.  The  exact  specifica- 
tions for  the  dot  pattern— how  many,  of  what  size,  and 
in  what  grid  configuration— were  calculated  through  a 
series  of  graphs  and  charts.  Lichtenstein  was  especially 
concerned  about  the  quality  of  color;  he  attempted  to 
control  the  color  of  the  film  as  precisely  as  he  would  in 
mixing  paint,  and  therefore  demanded  numerous  correc- 
tion prints.  Roy's  decisions  about  composition  and 
motion  were  made  intuitively,  on  the  basis  of  each  film's 
internal  consistency,  as  well  as  its  relationship  to  the 
group  and  the  type  of  installation.  In  the  two  films  for 
Expo,  the  motion  of  the  internal  elements  was  minimal 
and  thus  called  for  rocking  motion.  In  the  Museum 
exhibition,  on  the  other  hand,  there  will  be  ample  time 
for  spectators  to  view  the  film,  and  it  will  be  possible  for 
Lichtenstein  to  select  sequences  with  more  engaging 
internal  activity,  as  well  as  a  rocking  motion.  But  for  all 
sequences  that  rock,  the  key  factor  is  that  they  be  set 
out  of  synchronization  with  the  others  in  the  group. 
After  processing  the  film,  the  final  step  was  to  match 
exactly  the  beginning  and  ending  frames  to  form  a 
continuous  loop,  without  skips.  At  the  completion  of 
this  tedious  editing  process,  which  took  about  nine 


months,  Joel  Freedman  commented  in  a  letter  to  us,  "It 
was  quite  a  difficult  project,  I've  now  got  to  say— behind 
the  quiet  tranquility  of  a  suspended  seagull  over  sunset 
water  there  is  a  maze  of  graphs,  charts,  photography, 
animation.  Neanderthal  lab  technicians  driving  me  nuts 
and— a  bit  of  money." 

Throughout  his  association  with  A  &  T,  Roy  maintained 
a  certain  skepticism  regarding  the  possibilities  for  tech- 
nological collaboration  which  he  later  explained  in  an 
interview: 

The  thing  that's  advanced  scientifically  is  the  theory, 
and  artists  don't  get  anywhere  near  the  theory; 
they're  usually  using  the  equivalent  of  a  refrigerator 
or  a  light  bulb  or  some  by-product  of  the  theory,  it 
seems  to  me.  In  being  avant  garde,  they're  really  using 
old-fashioned  products.  There's  nothing  to  under- 
stand in  a  laser,  even  if  you  understand  the  principle. 
I'm  not  putting  down  the  laser  as  useful  in  art;  I'm 
just  saying  that  you  can  immediately  comprehend  the 
laser— what  it  does,  what  it  looks  like  and  how  it's 
done.  It  can  be  explained  to  you  in  five  minutes  and 
you  get  it.  There's  nothing  mysterious  about  the 
medium.  I'm  not  sure  it  should  be  mysterious;  that's 
not  the  point,  either.  Very  few  artists  are  really  using 
anything  that  can  be  considered  advanced  tech- 
nology. It's  not  putting  it  down,  it's  saying  that  it 
Isn't  advanced,  and  one  tends  to  believe  it's  advanced. 
There's  something  disturbing  connected  with  both 
the  artist  using  technology  and  the  scientist  wishing 
he  were  an  artist,  and  I  think  that  both  of  them  get 
into  a  kind  of  romantic  fantasy— It's  a  longing  for 


199 


A&T 


f  iKjirwe.o 


F 


^    A   r^ 


--i 


something,  to  be  something  you're  not.  And  there's 
nothing  wrong  with  that,  either,  esthetically;  it  could 
really  work  out.  I  don't  think  art  has  anything  to  do 
with  either  of  those  things.  If  you  really  invent 
something  in  order  to  conceive  of  it  you  also  have  to 
have  a  new  conception  of  form.  You  don't  conceive 
things  without  conceiving  their  form.  To  invent  the 
theory  is  really  being  the  inventor;  to  use  the  product 
is  the  same  thing  as  using  a  paint  brush— it  isn't  any 
more  advanced. 

In  spite  of  Roy's  disclaimer  regarding  the  complexities 
of  technological  tools,  it  is  worth  noting  that  perhaps 
alone  of  all  the  artists  who  worked  in  this  program, 
Lichtenstein  completely  altered  the  conventional  nature 
of  his  medium.  In  fact,  he  used  film  in  an  utterly  anti- 
filmic  manner.  This  anti-filmic  quality,  which  is  common 
to  all  fifteen  films,  involves  a  basic  sense  of  contradic- 
tion, "a  play,"  as  he  said  "between  reality  things  and 
artificial  things."  In  part  this  derives  from  Lichtenstein's 
method  of  structuring  the  two  compositional  elements, 
water  and  sky,  as  one  image  on  the  picture  surface.  They 
are  meant  to  be  seen  as  a  total  visual  field.  In  a  custom- 
ary cinematic  sequence  of  water,  horizon  line  and  sky, 
the  intended  effect  is  a  vista,  and  the  ordinary  percep- 
tual process  of  the  viewer  is  to  integrate  foreground  and 
background  into  a  visual  pattern  which  creates  the 
illusion  of  three-dimensional  space.  In  Lichtenstein's 
films  this  effect  is  intentionally  avoided  and  even  contra- 
dicted, and  makes  it  impossible  to  feel  any  sense  of 
spatial  recession.  All  motion  takes  place  on  the  picture 
plane;  the  rippling  water  does  not  move  back  into  space 
but  up  the  surface  of  the  screen,  abruptly  meeting  the 
horizon  line.  This  line  itself  further  underscores  the 
flatness  of  the  picture  plane.  Moreover,  Lichtenstein 
gives  no  visual  clues  (no  localized  objects  like  a  boat  on 
the  horizon)  but  isolates  fragmented  bodies  of  water  or 
sky.  In  the  case  of  the  tropical  fish  which  swim  in 
random  multi-planar  patterns,  a  certain  degree  of  three- 
dimensionality  is  defined,  but  the  area  (that  of  a  foot 
deep  fish  tank)  is  strictly  circumscribed  and  confined. 

The  installation  planned  for  the  Museum,  using  three 
screens  [4] ,  should  discourage  a  focused  concentration 
upon  any  single  image  and  should  induce  a  scanning, 
contemplative  viewing  of  all  the  images  in  the  visual 
field.  This  inclusive  or  "dedifferentiated"  way  of  viewing 
is  possible  because  nothing  happens  in  any  of  the  films. 
There  is  no  action,  no  narrative  element.  Lichtenstein 
remarked  that  they  are  "useless"  films.  In  this  context 
Andy  Warhol's  films  come  to  mind,  particularly  Empire. 
In  both  the  effect  is  boredom.  But  there  is  a  difference: 
in  Empire,  the  film's  action  is  created  by  the  environ- 
mental changes  affecting  the  building  during  an  eight 
hour  time  span;  whereas  Lichtenstein's  films  are  perpet- 
ual cycles  of  repetitive  imagery  with  no  beginning  and 
no  end. 


Len  Lye 

Born  Christchurch,  New  Zealand,  1901 
Resident  New  York  City 


200 


Len  Lye  arrived  in  Los  Angeles  on  August  20,  1968  to 
tour  Kaiser  Steel  Corporation  in  Fontana.  The  artist 
described  three  pieces  he  wanted  to  execute,  and  drew  a 
rough  sketch  of  each.  Gail  Scott  described  his  plans  in  a 
memo  at  that  time: 

Gateway  to  the  Universe:  is  ideally  conceived  as  an 
oval  structure  of  steel  resting  on  a  large  base.  The 
dimensions  of  the  oval  would  be  ninety  feet  long, 
sixty  feet  high,  twelve  feet  thick,  but  a  more  feasible 
scale  for  our  exhibition  would  be  thirty  by  twenty  by 
six  feet.  The  exact  dimensions  would  depend  on 
technical  calculations,  permanent  and  temporary 
exhibition  sites,  and  transportability.  The  entire 
structure  would  oscillate  back  and  forth  in  a  rolling 
motion,  controlled  by  an  electro-magnetic  device, 
attached  at  two  points  at  the  base  of  the  piece.  In  its 
ultimate  situation.  Gateway  would  be  the  entrance  to 
a  whole  complex  of  kinetic  objects  in  a  total  environ- 
ment, but  obviously  this  is  outside  the  range  of 
possibility  for  A  &  T.  He  describes  Gateway  as:  the 
nearest  I  can  see  it  is  a  great  elephant  reincarnated  as 
an  ebb  tide  at  Big  River  where  the  meeting  of  the 
tides  creates  a  rolling  whirlpool  action.  He  has  a  nine 
foot  model  in  his  New  York  studio  which  he  would 
advise  having  the  engineer  assigned  to  the  project 
look  at.  There  are  several  structural  problems  which 
need  to  be  worked  out:  type  of  base;  securing  the 
oval  to  the  base,  finding  a  type  of  steel  which  would 
not  bend  at  the  top  of  such  a  large  oval  shape;  pro- 
gramming the  electro-magnetic  device. 

Blade:  is  a  sheet  about  twelve  feet  high,  twenty-two 
inches  wide,  made  of  3/64"  thick  steel,  standing 
upright  with  a  striker  device  to  one  side,  consisting  of 
a  steel  ball  on  a  pipe.  The  sheet  steel  would  be  pro- 
grammed to  oscillate  in  a  waving  motion  creating 
double  and  at  times  triple  harmonic  sounds.  When  the 
movements  reach  a  certain  curvature,  the  striker 
would  then  hit  the  sheet  with  a  bonging  sound.  The 
entire  structure,  striker  and  all,  would  then  rotate  on 
its  axis,  shimmering  and  reflecting  light  projected 
onto  it.  A  composer,  perhaps  in  percussion,  would 
program  the  reciprocating  device.  Lighting  would  be 
coordinated  into  the  motor  stepping. 

Storm  King:  is  a  sheet  of  steel,  sixteen  feet  long  made 
of  3/64"  thick  steel  with  two  brass  curved  arms 
extruding  from  one  side.  The  whole  structure  would 
oscillate,  creating  storm  sounds  and  reflecting  light 
projected  onto  it.  This  piece  would  be  placed  against 
a  long  sheet  of  brass  which  is  also  programmed  to 
move  in  a  waving  motion.  The  piece  would  be  sus- 
pended from  the  ceiling  with  a  small  reciprocator  at 
the  top. 


Len  Lye  wrote  MT  on  August  26, 

Oom.  Seeing  you  at  the  helm  prowing  the  art  and 
technology  seas  was  wow  fore  and  aft. 

The  fly  in  the  kiss  me  quick  of  my  unto  consists  of 
motion  comp  as  the  end  of  the  fabricating  trip  and 
what  that's  to  be  I  alone  decide  so  the  trick  is  know- 
ing when  the  goal  is  getting  off  course. 

Attached  is  what  it  takes  for  that  and  a  few  other 
tacks. 

Along  the  way  there's  the  listed  kind  of  squalls  and 
all  of  us  learning  to  keep  our  seats  dry  but  if  the 
ancients  could  deliver  Stonehenge,  the  Nile  temples 
even  unto  those  Aztecs  and  Tolmecs  with  a  lot  of 
heave  ho  why  can't  we  and  we  with  the  plan  you've 
got  can. 

As  you  know  I'm  up  to  my  eyebrows  but  while 
passing  through  I'll  give  it  a  go,  otherwise  it's  no  skin 
off  my  bowspit  if  the  conditions  listed  can't  be  met. 

Could  you  let  me  know  a  final  reaction  as  soon  as 
poss.?  I  don't  want  to  back  and  forth  at  all  with 
skidding  verbiage.  What  happens  will  affect  my  next 
lot  of  doings  including  something  for  next  all  summer 
I'm  about  to  sign  but  if  we  go  ahead,  then  I'll  ask  for 
spare  time  to  keep  in  touch  from  Japan  where  we'll 
be  1969  with  Ann  and  a  job  and  maybe  Garrett  have 
a  private  plane  or  space  suit  outfit  to  get  the  to  and 
fro  done. 

Once  again  for  your  efficient  smoothing  and  under- 
standing of  all  the  aspects  of  which  I  know  I'm  but 
one.  Last  but  almost  the  most  the  perfect  hospitality 
of  your  friends.  It  was  all  magnificient. 

Oom  .  .  .  thanks 

*Points  which  must  be  agreed  to  by  both  the  Museum 
and  the  donor  manufacturing  corporation: 

(1 )  Whatever  work  may  be  chosen  by  the  manufactur- 
ing corporation,  I  would  expect  a  second  model  be 
made  for  me  not  to  be  used  for  public  display.  This 
version  should  not  be  in  any  way  inferior  to  the  one 
they  build  for  themselves.  If  any  improvements  were 
made  which  could  not  be  repeated  on  my  model, 
then,  rather  than  accept  the  first,  I  would  require  a 
new  version. 

Four  works.  Sky  King,  Universe,  Blade,  and  Moon 
Bead,  [a  sculpture  he  had  only  mentioned  in  passing] 
are  now  being  considered  for  construction.  I  realize 
the  right  of  the  corporation  to  retain  copies  of  the 
works  promoted  by  the  museum,  but,  should  they 


201 


Jackson  MacLow 

Born  Chicago,  Illinois,  1922 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


construct  all  four,  it  would  be  unfair  to  me,  the  artist, 
that  I  should  be  deprived  of  future  commissions  on 
these  pieces  because  they  already  exist  in  a  public 
collection.  Therefore,  for  this  and  other  reasons  I  will 
only  allow  two  works  of  the  four  to  be  copies. 

(2)  Len  Lye,  the  artist,  would  retain  the  authority  to 
cancel  and  have  destroyed  either  work  in  progress  or 
work  completed  if  he  sees  it  becoming  somebody 
else's  thing.  This  means  that  he,  or  his  assistant, 
would  have  to  be  kept  in  constant  touch  with  stages 
of  appreciable  development  of  a  piece  and  approve  of 
them.  If  unable  to  visit  the  shop,  he  would  want  to 
see  decipherable  drawings. 

(3)  Whatever  work  chosen  by  the  fabricator,  and 
built,  should  not  be  exploited  commercially  (such  as 
a  roadsign  type  of  role),  nor  subverted  to  a  gimmick 
type  attraction  (such  as  being  lit  up  in  garish  colors), 
but  rather  it  should  be  set  in  surroundings  which 
enhance  it.  To  this  end  I  would  like  some  authorita- 
tive say  in  its  exhibition.  I  would  also,  therefore,  have 
approval  of  any  ultimate  disposition  of  the  work,  that 
is  after  it  leaves  the  museum. 

(4)  When  the  exhibition  is  finished  at  the  museum, 
my  work  is  to  be  immediately  crated  and  shipped  to  a 
given  destination,  possibly  overseas. 

(5)  I  retain  full  copyright  of  the  start  and  end  design 
and  a  blue  print  copy  of  all  mechanisms  and  wiring 
schematics. 

Lye  had  outlined  several  other  definite  requirements  for 
the  works:  Blade  and  Storm  King  had  to  be  fully  pro- 
grammed, and  a  type  of  steel  must  be  used  which  was 
both  resilient  and  would  produce  a  proper  tone  when 
struck;  Gateway,  as  an  outdoor  piece,  had  to  be  weather- 
ized;  Storm  King  and  Blade  would  have  to  be  placed  in  a 
soundproofed  area  in  an  installation;  all  three  required 
secure  bases  to  withstand  constant  vibrations. 

The  major  drawback,  as  the  Kaiser  engineers  pointed 
out,  was  that  the  company  does  not  manufacture  either 
spring  steel  or  stainless  steel,  both  of  which  are  suffic- 
iently ductile  materials  for  kinetic  sculptures.  Kaiser 
produces  structural  steel  which  is  strong,  flexible  and 
brittle,  for  architectural  purposes  and  bridge  building— I- 
beams,  H-beams,  piping,  etc.  The  other  difficulty  was  in 
programming  the  works;  Kaiser  has  no  electronic  facili- 
ties to  devise  a  control  system. 

Lye  had  also  toured  the  Garrett  Corporation  and  de- 
livered the  same  proposals.  Garrett  had  agreed  to  survey 
its  various  divisions  to  determine  the  capabilities  for 
execution.  Both  Kaiser  and  Garrett  eventually  declined 
to  take  on  the  project. 


Jackson  MacLow's  participation  in  A  &  T  came  about 
for  several  unusual  reasons.  His  was  from  the  beginning  a 
special  case,  since  he  is  not  an  artist  but  a  poet,  and 
could  thus  not  be  expected  to  have  the  same  kind  of 
relationship  to  a  corporation  as  other  artists  contracted 
with  us.  Our  rationale  in  approaching  MacLow  had  in 
part  to  do  with  an  intensely  frustrating  impasse  reached 
with  an  important  corporation:  namely,  there  came  a 
point  in  our  dealings  with  IBM  when  it  seemed  we  must 
either  try  a  totally  new  approach  or  simply  give  it  up. 
Since  we  had  attempted  unsuccessfully  to  obtain  IBM's 
approval  for  interactions  with  several  artists— Vasarely, 
Robert  Irwin,  Eduardo  Paolozzi  and  Vjenceslav  Rich- 
ter— and  since  one  reason  for  this  failure  appeared  to  be 
the  difficulty  for  these  artists  of  using  computer  technol- 
ogy in  a  way  mutually  satisfactory  to  them  and  IBM,  we 
thought  of  bringing  in  a  poet,  who  could  use  computers 
as  a  linguistic  medium.  The  suggestion  to  include  Mac- 
Low  was  David  Antin's. 

MacLow  is  associated  with  concrete  poetry,  an  interna- 
tional, heterogeneous  school  of  poetry,  which  came  to 
prominence  in  the  early  fifties.  However,  unlike  many  of 
the  younger  exponents  of  this  poetic  movement  who 
specifically  seek  a  synthesis  between  traditional  poetry 
and  painting,  MacLow  has  conformed  to  an  older  mani- 
festation of  this  style.  In  his  Anthology  of  Concrete 
Poetry,  Emmett  Williams  discusses  a  kind  of  poetry 
which  best  describes  MacLow's  own  work: 

The  visual  element  in  this  poetry  tended  to  be  struc- 
tural, a  consequence  of  the  poem,  a  'picture'  of  the 
lines  of  force  of  the  work  itself,  and  not  merely 
textural.  It  was  a  poetry  far  beyond  paraphrase,  a 
poetry  that  often  asked  to  be  completed  or  activated 
by  the  reader,  a  poetry  of  direct  presentation— the 
word,  not  words,  words,  words  or  expressionistic 
squiggles— using  the  semantic,  visual  and  phonetic 
elements  of  language  as  raw  materials  in  a  way  seldom 
used  by  the  poets  of  the  past. 

MacLow  studied  music  from  the  age  of  four  and  began 


202 


composing  music  and  poetry  at  fifteen.  His  educational 
bacl<ground  includes  studies  in  philosophy,  comparative 
literature,  Greek  language  and  music.  In  1954  he  pub- 
lished Five  Biblical  Poems,  in  which  he  invented  a  kind 
of  verse  using  as  the  basic  unit  the  "event"  rather  than 
the  traditional  foot,  syllable,  stress  or  cadence.  The 
poems  are  based  on  actual  Biblical  happenings  and  the 
events  are  either  single  words  or  silences,  each  equal  in 
duration  to  any  word.  Integers  in  the  title  Indicate  the 
verse  structure  which  can  be  made  verbal  by  musical  or 
other  non-verbal  sounds  produced  at  the  ends  of  lines 
and  stanzas.  Five  Biblical  Poems  is  also  the  first  work 
MacLow  composed  by  chance  operations,  a  method  he 
has  developed  and  extended  in  his  later  work.  Since 
1954,  he  has  written  several  plays,  as  well  as  a  book 
published  in  1968  by  the  Black  Sparrow  Press,  Twenty- 
two  Light  Poems.  Besides  writing  poetry  and  plays,  he 
has  done  a  number  of  paintings,  collages  and  construc- 
tions. 

Besides  admiring  MacLow's  work  in  general,  Antin  knew 
of  several  performance  pieces  he  had  composed  involving 
simultaneous  readings  of  randomly  ordered  fragments  of 
poetry  by  several  people  in  concert,  following  a  rhyth- 
mic "score,"  and  accompanied  by  musical  sounds.  The 
principle  behind  this  technique,  it  seemed,  could  be 
applied  to  computer  input  and  output,  similar  perhaps 
to  methods  used  by  John  Cage. 

In  April,  1969,  Jane  Livingston  met  with  MacLow  in 
New  York,  where  he  lives  and  teaches  at  NYU.  Jackson 
was  immediately  enthusiastic  about  coming  to  California 
to  work  with  IBM:  in  fact  he  had  even  then  a  definite 
idea  for  a  project.  He  talked  in  terms  which  seemed 
impressively  knowledgeable:  the  areas  he  indicated  were 
of  interest  had  to  do  with  artificial  grammars  and  word- 
string  processing,  computer-generated  sounds,  modifica- 
tion of  speech  by  computer  or  related  methods,  and  the 
use  of  APL  consoles  and  various  educational  machines. 
The  theme  he  wished  to  pursue  was  "The  Conservation 
of  the  Earth":  he  would  draw  on  regional  ecological 
information  for  the  words  and  images.  He  wanted,  he 
said,  to  combine  words  projected  as  pictures,  with 
sound-recorded  words  or  abstract  sounds. 

We  contacted  IBM  to  describe  MacLow's  general  inten- 
tion for  collaboration.  It  was  agreed  that  MacLow  would 
come  to  Los  Angeles  to  meet  with  personnel  at  IBM's 
Scientific  Research  Center  in  Century  City,  rather  than 
touring  the  enormous  San  Jose  facility  which  had  until 
then  been  intended  as  the  base  for  an  artist's  residence 
with  the  corporation.  In  June,  1969,  MacLow  arrived 
with  his  wife  and  young  children— they  came  by  train,  as 
he  avoids  flying— and  a  meeting  was  held  the  day  of  his 
arrival  at  Century  City  with  the  poet,  JL  and  a  number 
of  IBM  physicists  and  mathematicians.  It  was  a  two  hour 
session,  and  a  memorably  uncomfortable  occasion,  at 


least  for  Jane  Livingston.  MacLow  had  formulated  an 
immensely  ambitious  proposal,  involving  an  egg-shaped, 
environmental  housing  for  the  work— he  had  a  rough 
sketch  for  this  structure,  which  stood  on  legs  and  was 
conceived  to  be  large  enough  in  its  interior  to  accommo- 
date several  people— and  an  elaborate  computer  system 
for  accepting  and  feeding  out  massive  amounts  of 
information  based  on  the  ecology  of  the  Los  Angeles 
metropolis.  It  was  to  be  a  participatory  experience.  The 
viewer  should,  according  to  his  scheme,  be  able  to 
request  information  at  will  and  receive  it  in  one  of 
several  forms— flashed  onto  a  screen,  orally  recorded  and 
emitted  through  a  speaker,  etc.  As  Jackson  presented  his 
idea  (which  was  obviously  more  complex  and  technical 
than  outlined  here),  the  seven  IBM  computer  scientists 
attending  the  meeting  listened  politely,  but  with  palpable 
skepticism  and  even  amusement.  The  contrast  between 
MacLow's  demeanor— he  looked,  on  one  hand,  like  a 
mad  professor,  and  on  the  other  like  a  gypsy  itinerant— 
and  the  cool,  groomed  appearance  of  the  gentlemen 
whom  he  addressed,  was  extraordinary.  After  the  poet's 
initial  description,  the  conference  developed  into  a  series 
of  patient  explanations  as  to  why  Jackson's  ideas  were 
totally  beyond  the  realm  of  practicability,  both  from  a 
financial  standpoint  and  in  view  of  the  limitations  of 
computer  technology.  Gradually,  MacLow  altered  his 
requirements  to  conform  to  the  realities  of  the  situation, 
and  by  the  end  of  the  meeting  it  was  plain  that  he  would 
be  willing  to  compromise  significantly  enough  to  work 
within  whatever  parameters  IBM  might  set  for  his 
project.  However,  it  became  evident  to  us  later  that  IBM 
was  not  interested  in  working  with  MacLow  no  matter 
what  his  project  involved.  IBM  did,  as  a  sort  of  consola- 
tion gesture,  arrange  for  MacLow  to  attend  a  week-long 
course  in  computer  programming  at  IBM's  downtown 
Los  Angeles  headquarters. 

Fortunately  another,  much  smaller,  computer  com- 
pany—Information International— had  joined  A  &  T  as  a 
Sponsor  Corporation  in  December,  1968.  We  had  visited 
the  company  with  Eduardo  Paolozzi  and  Vjenceslav 
Richter,  and  had  discussed  with  them  the  possibility  of 
working  with  Ron  Davis,  but  no  match  had  been  effec- 
ted. The  computer  system  that  I.I.  wished  to  make 
available  to  an  artist,  and  demonstrated  for  each  visitor, 
was  a  graphic  display  console  manufactured  by  them.  It 
is  described  in  a  letter  from  their  Public  Relations 
consultant.  Dawn  Walker: 

A  system  made  by  this  firm  seems  exceptionally 
suited  to  your  purpose.  It  is  a  computer  optical 
system  which  can  be  used  as  an  artist's  tool  to  pro- 
duce graphics.  It  is  capable  of  generating  computer- 
animated  film  and  other  graphics.  The  machine, 
valued  at  half  a  million  dollars,  is  used  for  a  number 
of  scientific  and  industrial  purposes.  However,  it 
becomes  a  tool  for  the  artist  because  of  its  high 
capability  to  react  to  what  is  desired  of  it  graphically. 


203 


A&T 


Because  it  has  the  capability  to  record  directly  on 
35-mm  or  70-mm  film,  it  can  be  used  to  produce 
computer-animated  movies  from  digital  information. 
The  creation  of  these  movies  is  controlled  by  the 
operator  through  a  number  of  means,  including 
monitoring  of  the  process  via  a  television-like  screen. 
In  essence,  film  is  created  via  a  number  of  controls, 
and  emerges  ready  for  the  camera  from  the  machine. 

(A  widely-shown  animated  film  made  with  Information 
International's  system  was  created  by  John  Whitney  and 
his  son,  Michael,  we  had  seen  this,  and  the  Whitneys 
were  eager  to  participate  in  A  &  T,  but  we  were  not 
especially  interested  to  have  another  such  film  done 
through  the  program,  although  such  an  undertaking  by 
an  artist  would  have  exploited  the  unique  capabilities  of 
the  machine  in  a  way  more  advantageous  to  the  corpora- 
tion for  commercial  exposure  than  what  was  finally 
done  with  it  by  MacLow.) 

On  June  19,  MacLow  visited  Information  International, 
met  with  Charles  Ray,  Manager  of  Applications  Develop- 
ment, who  demonstrated  the  graphic  display  console. 
(Both  Ray  and  the  company's  president,  Alfred  L. 
Fenaughty,  were  to  be  extremely  helpful  to  MacLow 
and  enduringly  cooperative  with  us  in  the  course  of  the 
project.)  One  of  the  programs  used  abstract,  linear 
geometric  configurations  which  appeared  on  the  screen 
and  moved  rhythmically  through  a  randomly  ordered 
sequence  of  alterations,  accompanied  by  music— a  Bach 
fugue  in  this  case.  A  program  accompanied  by  abstract 
sounds— bips  and  bleeps— synchronized  to  image  fluctua- 
tions was  also  shown.  Programs  could  be  called  up  or 
altered  with  the  use  of  a  light  pen  held  to  certain  points 
on  the  screen;  MacLow  sat  at  the  typewriter  console  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  experimenting  with  this 
device,  which  fascinated  him. 


It  was  agreed  on  this  day  by  the  company,  the  poet  and 
us  that  MacLow  would  enter  into  collaboration  with 
Information  International.  The  poet  began  work  immed- 
iately, commuting  each  day  for  ten  weeks  from  his 
rented  apartment  in  Hollywood  to  the  company's 
facility  in  Santa  Monica.  He  was  at  first  assisted  princi- 
pally by  the  Corporation's  Director  of  Programming, 
John  Hanson.  The  use  MacLow  made  of  the  company's 
PDP-9  Computer  (manufactured  by  D.E.C.)  was  actually 
not  technically  difficult  or  sophisticated  in  terms  of  the 
programs  themselves;  according  to  Charles  Ray,  the  basic 
programming  for  MacLow's  poems  was  accomplished  in 
an  eight  hour  period  early  in  the  collaboration,  and  was 
later  refined.  This  was  done  by  Hanson.  In  later  stages  of 
the  project.  Senior  Programmer  Dean  Anschultz  was 
heavily  involved  in  working  with  MacLow,  refining  and 
extending  the  program  to  enable  greater  sophistication 
in  his  word  groupings  than  was  initially  possible. 
MacLow  didn't  learn  to  actually  program  himself  (this 
would  have  been  virtually  impossible  in  the  time  he 
had)— in  other  words,  he  couldn't  instruct  the  machine- 
but  he  did  learn  to  operate  the  equipment,  by  manipula- 
ting the  typewriter-console.  He  was  given  access  to  the 
computer  system  for  four  hours  a  day,  from  six  to  ten 
A.M.,  five  days  a  week,  and  working  on  this  basis  he 
composed  a  significant  body  of  poetry. 

Although  MacLow's  demands  on  Information  Inter- 
national's programming  expertise  were  relatively  modest, 
he  did  provide  a  novel  experience  for  Information 
International's  personnel  in  that  the  PFR-3  system  (this 
is  the  designation  for  the  entire  graphic  display  unit, 
including  the  programmable  film  reader,  magnetic  tape 
units,  etc.)  had  not  previously  been  used  by  them  to 
produce  word  images,  but  was  employed  chiefly  for 
graphic  patterns.  By  relying  on  the  computer's  ability  to 
propagate  words  directly  onto  the  screen  (as  a  series  of 
dots,  rather  than  by  scanning  lines,  as  in  a  television 
screen),  MacLow  bypassed  the  PFR-3's  film  reading 
capacity,  which  involves  photographing  images. 

MacLow  finally  composed  nineteen  poems.  Each  one 
was  built  differently,  and  they  became  progressively 
more  complex  as  he,  John  Hanson  and  particularly  Dean 
Anschultz  elaborated  the  program.  Only  one  program 
was  made.  It  initially  consisted  of  forty-eight  characters, 
including  spaces,  which  could  be  generated  by  pressing 
the  typewriter  keys  on  the  display  unit.  During  the  first 
phase,  individual  two-  or  three-letter  words  could  be 
permuted  in  various  ways.  They  then  devised  a  linker 
mechanism,  enabling  series  of  words  to  be  always  linked 
together  in  the  same  way;  thus  larger  blocks  of  words 
could  be  permuted  in  various  configurations.  Finally  a 
carriage  return  device  was  added  to  the  program,  so  that 
a  number  of  lines  of  poetry  could  be  made  to  appear 
simultaneously  on  the  screen.  In  the  last  poem,  THE, 
each  message  was  composed  of  a  number  of  complete 


sentences,  rather  than  just  linked  words  or  phrases.  Most 
of  the  poems  were  based  on  a  family  of  words  with 
related  imagery.  SOUTH,  for  example,  uses  words  all 
referring  to  plants  and  animals  in  Latin  America  and 
Africa. 


204 


MacLow  submitted  several  of  the  poems  made  with 
Information  International  to  Stony  Brook,  for  its  no.  %, 
1969  issue.  He  included  a  letter  to  the  Editor,  George 
Quasha,  explaining  the  way  in  which  the  poems  were 
composed: 

The  .  .  .  poems  enclosed  are  xeroxes  of  print  out 
realizations  of  poems  I  composed  last  summer  (1969) 
on  a  PFR-3  programmable  film  reader  at  Information 
International,  Inc.,  in  West  Los  Angeles,  for  the  Art  & 
Technology  exhibition  of  the  Los  Angeles  County 
Museum  of  Art,  organized  by  Maurice  Tuchman.  A 
PFR-3  programmable  film  reader  is  a  device,  or  rather 
a  linked  group  of  devices  including  a  DEC  PDP/9 
computer,  which  'reads'  film  in  the  sense  that  it  turns 
the  image  on  the  film  into  digital  form  and  thence 
projects  this  image  via  a  computer  onto  a  special  type 
of  cathode-ray  tube  (CRT)  in  a  monitor  console.  It 
can  modify  the  image  when  it  is  in  digital  form  or 
analyze  it  in  myriad  ways  (e.g.,  it  can  project  the 
x-ray  image  of  an  organ  of  the  body,  increase  the 
contrast  of  its  features,  trace  the  contours  and  give 
notice  of  anomalies,  etc.).  Its  applications  range  from 
medical  diagnosis  to  oil  prospecting. 

In  composing  nineteen  poems  this  summer  (see  below 
for  what  I  mean  in  this  case  by  'poem')  on  the  PFR-3, 
I  didn't  make  much  use  of  the  film-reading  potential- 
ity of  the  device  (I  did  wish  to  work  with  photos  of 
handwriting,  but  my  programmers,  John  Hanson  and 
Dean  Anschultz,  were  too  deluged  with  other  work  to 
be  able  to  get  to  that  program  before  I  had  to  leave 
L.A.).  The  program  made  for  me  by  Hanson  and 
Anschultz  began  as  a  simple  permutation  program:  It 
allowed  me  to  type  in  (on  a  teletype)  up  to  one 
hundred  forty  eight-character,  single-line  'messages'  as 
one  group  or  poem.  When  one  was  not  typing  mes- 
sages in,  the  computer  would  pseudo-randomly  range 
over  the  entire  group  of  messages,  settle  on  one, 
select  one  or  more  or  all  of  the  units  in  the  message, 
and  select  one  permutation  of  that  group  of  units. 
This  group  of  units  would  appear  at  a  pseudo- 
random position  (I  say  'pseudo-random'  because 
the  means  used  were  pseudo-random  numbers)  on  the 
monitor  CRT. 


Two  special  features  of  the  CRT  must  be  noticed:  the 
fact  that  it  propagates  its  image  by  a  series  of  dots 
rather  than  by  line-scanning  as  in  video.,  and  the  fact 
that  images  fade  gradually  rather  than  abruptly  from 
the  face  of  the  two  due  to  the  use  of  long-persistence 
phosphors.  As  against  the  bluish-white  first  appear- 


205 


A&T 


ances  of  images,  the  after-images  are  chartreuse  and 
black.  In  addition,  the  particular  PFR-3  monitor 
console  I  worked  on  was  wired  to  an  audio  amplifier 
in  such  a  way  that  every  time  an  image  (e.g.,  a  series 
of  words)  appeared  on  the  CRT,  the  same  series  of 
impulses  from  the  computer  which  fired  the  electron 
gun  to  produce  the  image  also  went  through  the 
audio  system  to  produce  a  sound.  In  the  case  of  my 
word  groups,  the  longer  the  series  of  characters  was, 
the  deeper  in  pitch  the  tone  (a  sound  in  the  oboe- 
bassoon  family,  more  or  less)  and  the  longer  its  dur- 
ation. Thus  single  words  would  produce  high  pitches; 
several-line  groups  (which  the  later  forms  of  the  pro- 
gram made  possible)  had  the  sound  of  deep  organ 
pipes. 

In  addition,  if  one  desired  printout,  one  could  push 
down  one  of  the  'program-sense'  levers  on  the  con- 
sole, whereupon  the  teletype  would  type  out  every 
tenth  word  group  that  appeared  on  the  screen.  This 
feature  of  the  program  is  the  source  of  the  present 
examples.  IVloreover,  in  the  later  forms  of  the  pro- 
gram, I  was  able  to  vary  the  speed  of  propagation  of 
the  word  groups  by  depressing  various  combinations 
of  the  AC  levers  on  the  computer  itself.  A  regular 
feature  of  the  console  itself  is  a  group  of  knobs  that 
enables  one  to  shift  the  image  horizontally  or  vertical- 
ly or  change  its  horizontal  or  vertical  size  (or  any 
combination  of  any  number  these  four  possibilities); 
when  one  shifts  the  setting  of  one  or  more  of  these 
knobs  while  an  image  is  being  propagated,  one  pro- 
duces chartreuse  tracks! 

In  the  earlier  forms  of  the  program,  the  permutable 
units  were  single  words  and  I  had  no  period  as  a  print- 
able character.  The  program  would  pull  out  any  of 
the  permutations  of  any  of  the  combinations  of  the 
words  of  any  of  the  up-to-one  hundred  messages 
which  constituted  a  single  'poem'  in  this  sense.  The 
two-page  run  beginning  'ALWAYS  ARE  TRANS- 
FORIVIING  ENERGIES  ALL  PARAMETERS'  is  the 
earliest  example  of  this  stage.  It  is  printoff  from  the 
poem  'TRAN,',  which  consists  of  the  single  message 
'ENERGIES  ARE  TRANSFORMING  ALL  PARAM- 
ETERS ALWAYS'  and  which  I  improvised  on  the 
PFR-3  teletype  the  first  day  I  worked  on  it  in  the 
middle  of  June,  1969.  From  the  same  stage  is  the 
poem  'DANISH'  (or  'DANSK')  which  was  the  first 
one  completed  with  one  hundred  full-line  messages. 
(Of  this  I  enclose  the  first  realization  drawing  on  all 
one  hundred  messages— the  actual  printoff  beginning 

with  'GRANDFATHERS  BENIGNANT' I  also 

enclose  three  xeroxed  runs  of  printoff  of  'DANISH': 
the  single-page  beginning  'CRUNCHING  ARE';  the 
three-page  run  beginning  'PAVEMENTS  CARPET- 
ING ARE  JACARANDA  VIOLET  FLOWERS';  and 
the  single-page  beginning  'TROMBONES  LOUD 


TONES  ARE  RESONANT  SOUNDING  LONG'.) 

SENTENOES' 
'DANISH'  consists  of  one  hundred  complete  senten- 
ces, some  composed  by  means  of  systematic  chance, 
some  just  dreamed  up,  each  of  which  has  its  verb  in 
either  the  present  progressive  (e.g.,  'is/are  going')  or 
past  progressive  (e.g.,  'was/were  going')  tense  and 
each  of  which  consists  of  a  maximum  of  forty-eight 
characters,  including  spaces.  It  was  composed  during 
most  of  the  last  week  of  June,  1969.  The  use  of  the 
'ing'  form  of  verbs  as  present  participles,  gerunds 
(nouns),  adjectivals  allows  for  a  maximum  of  at  least 
fragmentary  grammaticalness  when  these  words 
appear  in  random  groups  as  in  these  examples:  it  is 
easy  for  the  -Ing  form  to  shift  from  one  grammatical 
role  to  another  according  to  the  permutational  con- 
text. Elements  of  some  of  the  sentences  were  drawn 
by  chance  from  a  dictionary  and  from  Black  Elk 
Speaks  (Neihardt). 

In  later  stages  of  the  program,  I  had  a  'linker'  by 
which  I  could  link  up  any  number  of  words— even 
whole  sentences— and  use  them  as  units  rather  than 
merely  single  words.  'SOUTH,'  of  which  I  send  you  a 
complete  sixteen-page  run,  is  one  using  this  linkage 
feature.  It  began  as  a  series  of  sentences  improvised 
the  first  time  I  worked  with  the  PFR-3.  Somehow  the 
lack  of  grammaticalness  in  the  resultant  printout  of 
pseudo-random  permutations  of  combinations  of  the 
words  of  the  sentences  I  typed  in  didn't  'make  it'  for 
me,  but  by  scanning  through  it  for  actual  and  sugges- 
ted sentences,  I  produced  the  one  hundred  messages 
of  the  final  version  of  'SOUTH'— each  of  which  con- 
sists of  one  or  two  whole  sentences  which  are  the 
actual  units  of  the  messages  since  their  words  always 
appear  in  the  same  succession  because  of  the  linkage. 
The  imagery  of  'SOUTH'  is  an  indiscriminate  mixture 
of  flora  and  fauna  from  both  Central  and  South 
America  and  Africa  (possibly  also  southern  Asia)  .... 

A  very  late  feature  of  the  program  was  a  workable 
'carriage  return'— i.e.,  the  possibility  of  messages 
having  more  than  one  line  of  forty -eight  characters, 
of  propagating  on  the  CRT  face  multiline  groups  of 
units  or  whole  messages,  and  of  printing  out  such 
multiline  messages  and  unit  groups.  This  was  a  terri- 
bly complex  programming  problem  (or  rather,  mak- 
ing these  three  types  of  carriage  return  possible  and 
compatible  and  also  making  it  possible  to  edit  such 
messages— which  is  another  long  story)— finally  solved 
by  Dean  Anschultz,  the  red-bearded  Demon  Program- 
mer of  Venice  on  the  Pacific. 

In  the  poem  'DAVID'  (the  name  refers  to  Dave 
Antin,  I  guess,  whom  I  saw  several  times  in  both  Los 
Angeles  and  in  Solana  Beach,  and  who  saw  and  heard 
the  PFR-3  in  action— both  'playing'  some  of  my 


206 


poems  and  having  new  ones  typed  into  it),  all  of  the 
one  hundred  messages  are  questions  or  statements 
about  questions  involving  'DAVID'  asking  questions, 
etc.  All  of  the  words  of  each  question  or  statement 
are  permanently  linked,  and  they  run  from  two  words 
in  length  to  three  lines.  See  the  page  beginning 
'DAVID  ASKED.'  (By  the  way,  I  also  got  an  opera- 
tional period  about  the  time  that  I  did  the  final 
[sentence]  version  of  'SOUTH.')  This  page  is  from 
the  middle  of  a  long  run  of  printout-realization  of 
'DAVID.' 

The  last  poem  I  worked  on  (for  two  or  more  weeks,  I 
believe)  in  August,  1969,  was  'THE'— of  which  I 
enclose  three  short  runs  of  printout.  In  'THE,'  each 
message  consists  of  four  to  six  short  sentences,  each 
typed  originally  on  a  separate  line.  These  short 
sentences  are  the  units  of  the  messages  of  the  poem, 
and  their  words  are  permanently  linked  within  each 
sentence.  Thus  each  word  group  propagated  on  the 
CRT  face  and/or  printed  out  is  a  sort  of  strophe  of 
one  to  six  lines,  each  line  of  which  is  a  complete 
sentence.  As  is  obvious  from  the  printout-realization 
examples  enclosed,  each  sentence  mentions  a  more  or 
less  'universal'  phenomenon;  each  strophe  consists  of 
a  closely  related  group  of  such  phenomena.  Ex.  1 
('THE  SUN  SHINES.')  is  from  an  early  stage  of  this 
poem,  in  which  I  had  not  yet  accreted  many  mes- 
sages. One  may  print  out  at  any  stage  of  the  game,  so 
that  earlier  printout  draws  from  small  numbers  of 
messages;  later  printout  is  drawn  from  larger  numbers 
of  messages— up  to  one  hundred,  except  for  'THE'— 
which  has  such  long  messages  that  it  overran  the 
memory  core  of  the  PDP/9  at  about  the  43rd  mes- 
sage: it's  the  Saint-Saens'  4th— organ  pipes  and  all— of 
my  PFR-3  poems.  It  reached  the  limits  of  the  compu- 
ter's capacity  and  had  to  be  trimmed  back  before  the 
computer  stopped,  just  giving  up  altogether  (as  it  did 
every  time  I  passed  a  certain  limit  in  adding  messages 
to  the  poem).  There  were  a  lot  of  human  phenomena 
that  I  never  got  to  put  into  the  poem  because  I  put 
them  off  to  the  end  of  the  list  of  messages,  thinking 
I'd  be  able  to  accrete  up  to  one  hundred  of  them 
despite  the  extreme  lengths  of  the  individual  mes- 
sages. The  organ  pipes  came  from  the  fact  that  there 
were  so  many  characters  and  lines  in  most  of  the 
word  groups  propagated  on  the  CRT  that  most  of  the 
corresponding  audible  tones  were  similar  to  those  of 
very  deep  organ  pipes— still  vaguely  'double-beating- 
read'  in  timbre,  some  being  chords  or  tone  clusters. 
(This  isn't  the  Saint-Saens'  4th  but  the  Mahler  9th  of 
the  PFR-3  poems.) 


('THE  PEOPLE  BUILD  METROPOLISES.')  are  from 
late  stages  of  'THE';  they  are,  respectively,  complete 
two  and  four-page  runs  of  printout. 

We  seriously  considered  displaying  MacLow's  computer- 
generated  poetry  in  the  New  Arts  Exhibition  at  Expo 
70,  and  even  went  so  far  as  to  have  some  test  film  foot- 
age made  of  the  PFR-3  screen  with  the  poetry  appearing 
on  it.  (It  was  plain  that  the  equipment  itself,  in  opera- 
tion, could  not  be  seen  long  enough  or  closely  enough  to 
be  understood  by  crowds  of  people  passing  through  the 
exhibition  area.)  The  film  as  we  saw  it  was  not  entirely 
successful,  and  it  would  have  required  an  expenditure 
beyond  our  means,  or  the  company's,  to  produce  it  in 
acceptable  form. 


The  following  are  excerpts  from  six  poems  made  by 
Mac  Low  at  Information  International:  The,  Danish, 
Diane,  David,  South  and  Trans.  They  are  reproduced 
from  Xeroxes  of  direct  printout.  Diane  is  given  in  two 
forms:  the  first  is  a  series  of  "messages,"  which  are  then 
randomly  arranged  to  form  the  poem. 

Jane  Livingston 


Ex.  1  is  early  since  it  draws  from  only  a  few  messages 
and  still  has  the  word  'animals'  rather  than  'mam- 
mals'—the word  used  in  the  later  stages  of  'THE'  's 
composition.  Ex.  2  ('THE  WIND  BLOWS.')  and  Ex.  3 


{ 


< 


THE  EARTH  TURNS. 

THE  STARS  SHINE. 
THE  EARTH  TURNS.  THE  MOON  SHINES 


THE  STARS  SHINE. 


THE  MOON  SHINES. 

THE  EARTH  TURNS.      THE  SUN  SHINES. 


THE  PLANETS  SHINE. 
THE  EARTH  TURNS. 

the" EARTH  TURNS.    THE  MOON  SHINES. 
THE  PLANETS  SHINE. 


THE  PLANETS  SHINE. 


A&T 

O 

G 

O 

o 
o 


THE  STREAMS  FLOW. 
THE  RAIN  FALLS.  O 

THE  OCEANS  FALL.  THE  OCEANS  RISE. 
THE  SNOW  FALLS. 

THE  WIND  BLOWS.  O 

THE  RIVERS  FLOW. 


o 
o 

J 
o 


THE   EARTH    TURNS.      THE   STARS    SHINE, 
THE    PLANETS    SHINE.  .  •  O 

THE    OCEANS    FALL.  THE    WIND  BLOWS.  O 

THE   SNOW   FALLS. 
THE    RAIN   FALLS. 

THE    RIVERS    FLOW.  O 

THE    WIND    BLOWS.      '  ~  .  G 

THE    OCEANS    FALL.      THE    RIVERS    FLOW.  | 

THE   SNOW   FALLS.  I 

THE   STREAMS    FLOW.  .  .  O 

THE   RAIN   FALLS. 
THE   OCEANS    RISE.  •  .-     _ 

o 

THE  SNOW  FALLS. 

THE  RIVERS  FLOW.  O 

THE  OCEANS  FALL.  THE  STREAMS  FLOW. 
THE  RAIN  FALLS. 

THE  OCEANS  RISE.  O 

.  THE  FLOWERS  ARISE.  .  O 


THE  WIND  BLOWS. 
THE  RAIN  FALLS. 


208 


-\ 


THE  RAIN  FALLS. 
THE  STREAMS  FLOW. 
THE  SNOW  FALLS. 


THE  ANIMALS  ARE  BORN. 
THE  REPTILES  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  INSECTS  ARE  HATCHED. 


THE  SNOW  FALLS. 

THE  STREAMS  FLOW. 
THE  RIVERS  FLOW. 


THE  BIRDS  ARE  HATCHED, 
THE  INSECTS  ARE  HATCHED. 

THE  PEOPLE  ARE  BORN.   THE  ANIMALS  ARE  BORN, 
THE  FISHES  ARE  HATCHED. 


THE  INSECTS  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  PEOPLE  ARE  BORN. 

THE  PEOPLE  ARE  BORN.   THE  BIRDS  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  FISHES  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  ANIMALS  ARE  BORN, 
THE  INSECTS  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  REPTILES  ARE  HATCHED. 


L-  THE  MOON  SHINES. 

C      THE  BIRDS  hRE  HATCHED. 

THE  FISHES  ARE  HATCHED. 
-  THE  REPTILES  ARE  HATCHED. 
C  '   THE  INSECTS  ARE  HATCHED. 

THE  REPTILES  ARE  HATCHED. 

C  THE  TREES  GROW.    THE  FLOWERS  GROW. 


THE  PLANTS  GROW. 
THE  BUSHES  GROW. 
THE  FUNGUSES  GROW. 
THE  MOSSES  GROW. 
THE  FLOWERS  GROW. 
THE  FERNS  GROW. 
THE  LICHENS  GROW, 


THE  LICHENS  ARISE. 
THE  FLOWERS  ARISE. 


- .        THE  FISHES  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  ANIMALS  ARE  BORN. 
THE  BIRDS  ARE  HATCHED. 

THE  PEOPLE  ARE  BORN.  THE  INSECTS  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  REPTILES  ARE  HATCHED. 


THE  FLOWERS  GROW. 
THE  TREES  GROW.   THE  PLANTS  GROW. 
THE  FUNGUSES  GROW. 
THE  FERNS  GROW. 
THE  MOSSES  GROW. 


THE  FERNS  GROW. 

THE  BUSHES  GROW. 
THE  TREES  GROW. 

THE  FLOWERS  GROW. 


THE  FUNGUSES  GROW. 


THE  STARS  SHINE. 
THE  SUN  SHINES. 
THE  MOON  SHINES. 

THE  PLANETS  SHINE, 


O 
O 
O 
O 

o 
o 
o 
o 


THE  TREES  GROW.  THE  BUSHES  GROW, 
THE  FLOWERS  GROW. 
THE  FERNS  GROW. 

THE  PLANTS  GROW. 

THE  LICHENS  GROW. 


THE  MOON  SHINES. 
THE  STARS  SHINE. 
THE  EARTH  TURNS.   THE  SUN  SHINES. 


THE  PLANETS  SHINE. 
THE  SUN  SHINES. 


THE  PEOPLE  ARE  BORN.  THE  REPTILES  ARE  HATCHED. 

THE  FISHES  ARE  HATCHED. 

THE  BIRDS  ARE  HATCHED. 
THE  ANIMALS  ARE  BORN. 
THE  INSECTS  ARE  HATCHED. 


o 
o 
o 
o 
o 

0 

o 

0 
0 


~i)  \  A  Me 


DECEN'T    BICYCLISTS   STAGED   THINGS    TRIBES    WITNESSED  ^ 

DILUTED   MILK   STARTLED   MOUNTED   STEVEDORES    WORST 
WONDERFULLY 

DECENT   PEOPLE   PICKED   REAL   MOUNTEBANKS   AS   LEADERS 
THO  DRINKERS   DINED    ON   CHAMPAGNE   THINKERS   DENIED 
GIANTS    HEARD   PLENTIFUL    FLAMENCOS    WEARILY 
WANLY 
STANDING   SILENT 

WEARILY 
YET   DRAMAS   MINGLED   TRAGEDIES    WITH    FRANTIC   FARCE 
DAFFY   PILL-TAKERS   CLASHED   WITH   PLANTED  SUFFERERS 

WEIRDLY   DENSE  KIBITZERS   GRATED  CLANNISH   PLAYERS 
DEFENDERS   LIBERATED   CRASHERS 

DISTANT   FINLAND'S   COASTS    FOUNDED   UNIVERSITIES 
DISCOVERIES    DILATED   STARTLING    JOINED    GROTESQUES 
DAMASK    DOWNED   WESTERNERS 
WRYLY 

DISTINGUISHED   LIGHT   COATS  CHANGED  VOICES   WEEKLY 
BADLY 
THE   GOBI    DESERT   DIFFERED 
A   DIRECTOR    FILMED   DEAD   SCHNAUZERS 

DAFFY   PILL-TAKERS   CLASHED   WITH   PLANTED  SUFFERERS 
C  A    DRUMSTICK   HIT   A    SCALY   ANTEATER   STANDING   SILENT  q 

FIGS   STARTED   PLUNGING    INTO   WASTE   PIPES 
DAFFY   PILL-TAKERS   CLASHED   WITH   PLANTED  SUFFERERS 

AND   DOGGED  WITNESSES    FRAZZLED   FLINTY    PROSECUTORS 
PUNGENTLY   DROMEDARIES    PISSED 
DORIC    PILLAGERS   DRAGGED   FRANTIC   KI NDER6ARTNERS 

A   DASHING   HIGHWAYMAN   DEALT   WITH   FUNNY   PROCESSES  ^        ^ 


C 


v_> 


D 
D 
D 
D 
D 
D 
D 
0 
'J 
D 
D 
D 
D 
D 


D 
D 
D 


f)lSCOVI£HIES    DILATIZD    STARTLING    JOIK'r:i)    nROTEf^flUlIS  A&T 

DISASTERS   LIB1£RALS    REALIZED    STUI.'NED    WHITEHEAD 
DOCILE    DIALECTICIANS    PRANCED   BRONZE    HORSES 
DAPPER    WITS    FRAMED    FRANCISCANS    REGRETTING    WASTE 
A   DRUMSTICK   HIT   A   SCALY    ANTEATER   STANDING   SILENT 
PAINFULLY    MAIMED    DINGOES    RINGED    PLATYPUSES 
WHILE   DETERMINED    PIGS    FEATHERED   LINNAEAN  LINTELS 
REGRETTING    WASTE    DAPPER    WITS    FRAMED    FRANCISCANS 

DECENT   BICYCLISTS    STAGED   THINGS    TRIBES    WITNESSED 
DEFENDED   KINGS    PLACED    MANNERS    ABOVE   CAREERS 
WANTONLY 
AND   DEDICATED   PILLAGERS   CLAIMED   HAUNTED   HOUSES 
BRAVELY    DEACONS    FINESSED   CRAZED    PLANTERS 
'^       A   DIRECTOR    FILMED    DEAD   SCHNAUZERS 
DAFFY    PILL -TAKERS   CLASHED    WITH    PLANTED  SUFFERERS 
EXPRESSLY    DAVID   MIXED   PRATTLE   WITH    PRINCIPLE 

THAT   DISCOVERED   WILD   SHARON'S  YOUNGER  AND   WEAKER 
DRAB   KILLERS   HEADED   MAINLAND   ARMIES    WASTEFULLY 

DAZZLING   BIOLOGISTS    DIAGRAMMED   BONNY    EXPRESSIONS 
DECENT    PEOPLE    PICKED    REAL   MOUNTEBANKS    AS    LEADERS 
DREAMS    FILLED   CRAZY    EVENINGS    SUMMER   WARMED   LATE 
DIALECTIC    MISTAKES    DRAMATIZED    ETHNIC    DIFFERENCES 
DAVID   MIXED   PRATTLE   WITH   PRINCIPLE   EXPRESSLY 
WITH    USELESS    WIND   DUSK    FILLED   PRACTICAL   PLANNERS 
GRATINGLY    WILDLY    DESERTERS   SHOUTED    "ULAN   BATOR- 
DARK    FIBERS   COATED    GRANOLITHIC    PUPPETS    ON    WHEELS 
WANLY    DUNCES   RISKED   SMARTING    GLANCES   AND   MOCKERY 
EVIDENTLY   WET 
WITLESSLY    WHITE   DOGS   KILLED    FLAG-WAVING    PRINTERS 

AND   DEFIANT   TICKET   AGENTS   DRAFTED  RAUNCHY   THESES 
AS    PRINCES    WINCED 


<■>' 


o 


c. 


c 


NYMPHOr-IANIACS  HUNGRY  MERELY  212 

KERE  TREES  COVERING  \ 

AMNESIACS  GARDENS  LITHE  POPULATING  ARE  \_:^^X~>, v'S V ^  ^ 

FERROCONCRETE  LIONS  ARE  ^^ 

v.ET  "^^=^  rN^^ 

SOLEMN  INNOCENT  OR  ARE  TRUE  SELDOM 
HERE 
VECTORS  INFECTING  OFTEN  MOSQUITOES 
PHILOSOPHICAL  ALSO 
VOCALIZING 
CHILDREN  LAUGHING  SPLATTERING  DROPS  ARE  GLINTING 

ARE  INCREASING  DAILY 
ARE 

•   FLOWERS  EUCALYPTUS  H0NEYMAKIN6  BEES  ARE  DRAWING 
INNUMERABLE 
SEPTUGENARIANS  ENVIOUS  ARE  JAILING  KIDS  AWAKENED 
ARE  MOURNING  CLANDESTINELY 

ENLIVENING  WHIPPOOR WILLS  TOO  .  . 

REVEALING 

JAPANESE 
CHARGING 

TRAVELING  WARNING  WERE  VOICES  HEARING 
VIOLS  RECORDERS  ARE  ARPEGGIATING 

ARE  FILLING  AWAITING  NOW 
MUM  WAREHOUSES  HAUNTING  ARE  DUSTY 
A^E  REMINISCENCES  OVERWHELMING  PERCEPTIONS 
MORNING  THIGHS  DROOPING  EYELIDS  ARE  LIFTING 

SATISFYING  ARE  SELDOM  PLEASURABLE  RENUNCIATIONS 
HAUNTING  DORMANT 
WIDOWS  DANISH  BLACK  ARE  SCOUNDRELS  POISONING  RED 
ViET  BODIES  SHINING  WARM  SUNLIT  MARMOREALLY 


<^ 


o 


o 


o 


o 


BODIES  A&T 

RECORDERS  VIOLS  COUNT'ERPO  INTIN  G  ARPEGGIATING 
ROLLING  SHY  PRAISING  ANGELS 
ARE  TRUE  COINCIDENCES 
ASIATIC  APES  GIBBONS  SMALL 
ARE  MEANINGFUL  EVENTS  NEARLY 

HOPES  ALL  ENTERING  ARE  MANY 
DINOSAURS  MOLDING  STUPIDLY  ONCE  WERE  ECOLOGIES 
CHILDREN 
FLjOWING  smiling  GIRLS  NOW  TRESSES  ARE 
LEADING  ARMS  CONTROLLING 

KICKING  WERE  PLUNGING  HORSES  FLOUNDERING  BISON 
ARPEGGIATIN6  COUNTERPO  INTING 

ARE  SOOTHING  OCARINAS  OLD  DULCET 
GIBBONS  ASIATIC  TAILLESS  APES  ARBOREAL  SMALL 
ARE 

OUTDOOR  LIGHTING  WERE 
TOTEMISTIC  ALWAYS  WERE  BOASTING  NEARLY  ANCESTORS 

MOLDY  OVERWHELMING  REMINISCENCES  PERCEPTIONS 
NO  DIFFICULTIES  ENCOUNTERING  ANIMALS  PATIENT 
IDEAS  SLEEPING  COLORLESS  ARE  GREEN 

SOON  FACES  GRASSES  SPROUTING  WERE  SHOWING  TENDER 
ARE 
ABSENTMINDED  PLASTIC  BONES 
WERE  SIOUX  OXEN 
NOW  CONTROLLING 
HUNTING 
SMALL  ARE  ARBOREAL  GIBBONS  APES  TAILLESS 
FIRES  CORUSCATING  JEWELS  WAVERING  WERE  REVEALING 
CHARGING  PAST  BUFFALOES  LAKOTAS  BELLOWING  WERE 
SELDOM  SATISFYING  PLEASURABLE  RENUNCIATIONS  ARE 


DAZZLING    BIOLOGISTS    DIAGRA.'OMED    BONNY    EXPRESSIONS 
DETERMINED    PIGS    FEATHERED    LINNAEAN    LINTELS 
A<-DASHING*-HIGHWAYMAN   DEALT^UITH    FUNNY    PROCESSES 
A-DISTRACTED-VINTNER   QUAILED    PHANTASiOIC    PETRELS 
DISGUSTING    FICTIONS    COAXED    LOONY    FISHES 
DIANE^WAKOSKI    SILVERED    PLAYING    LIONS    SINCERELY 
A-DIRECTOR    FILMED    DEAD   SCHHAUZERS    HYSTERICALLY 
DECENT    PEOPLE   PICKED    REAL   MOUNTEBANKS    AS    LEADERS 
A<-DUCK    DISTINGUISHED    PEANUTS    DAINTILY    IN«-JERSEY 
DIDDLING    FIJIANS    THANKED   CRANKY    WESTERNERS 
DELIGHTED    FIDDLERS    PRACTICED   DRUNKEN   SCALES 
A-DRUMSTICK    HIT   A«-SCALY*-ANTEATER    STANDING   SILENT 
DARK    KITCHENS    TRANQUILIZE    QUINTESSENTIAL   QUAKERS 
A*-DANDY    FILCHED  CLASSICAL   ROUND«-STEAKS    PERFECTLY 
A-DAUGHTER-OF*-HUNTERS   HID   TRAPS   PAINTED   VIOLET 
DISTINGUISHED    LIGHT   COATS   CHANGED   VOICES    WEEKLY 
WHO  DECLINED    HIS    WILD    GRAZING    AND   RUNNING   RANGES 
THE^GOBI -DESERT   DIFFERED    IN-STATES    FOUND   EXTREME 
DIFFICULT   MISTAKES    ACADEMIZED    TWENTY    ODD   SOVIETS 
WHO  DISCOVERED   WILD   SHAR-NURU   YOUNGER    OR    WEAKER 
DESERTERS    WILDLY   SHOUTED    "ULAN-BATOR"    GRATINGLY 
WHAT   DEVELOPED   LIVING   PRAGUE'S   ABUNDANT  STAGES 
DATA   ON-A-MINOR   CHARACTERIZED   HIS   SPINE   AS    LARGE 
DENEB   RIPENED    PLANETS    AND    PLANETOIDS    I N-SPACE 
DOCTORS    RIPPED-OUT    PRACTICAL    GLANDS    PERVERSELY 
DUNCES   RISKED   SMARTING    GLANCES   AND   MOCKERY    WANLY 
DRUGS    DISGUSTED   PLAIN-SPOKEN    DIANE    DIFFERENTLY 
DREAMS    FILLED   CRAZY    EVENINGS    SUMMER    WARMED   LATE 
DOGS   KILLED   FLAG-WAVING   PRINTERS    WI TLESSLY    WHITE 
DUSK    FILLED    PRACTICAL    PLANNERS    WI TH-USELESS-WI ND 
HIS   DRAMAS   MINGLED   TRAGEDY   WI TH-FRANTIC-FARCE 
DELIGHTED   MINSTRELS    FLATTERED   PRINCELY   HUNTERS 
DIRTY    MIXTECS   CLAMBERED-UP   MOUNTAINS    WICKEDLY 
DYING    FINGERNAILS   SLASHED    GRADUATING   STUDENTS 
DOROTHY    DISLIKED   PLAYFUL   PRANKSTERS    EXTREMELY 
DISCOVERIES    DILATED   STARTLING   JOINED    GROTESQUES 
DAVID  MIXED   PRATTLE   WI  TH-PRI  NCIPLE   EXPRESSLY 
DEFINITIONS    FINISHED    DIALOGUES   SAINTS    TRACED 
DINGOES   RINGED   PLATYPUSES   PAINFULLY    MAIMED 
DIALECTIC   MISTAKES    DRAMATIZED   ETHNIC    DIFFERENCES 
DIGESTED    MILLET    FLAVORED    TRANSFORMED    PROTEINS 
DILUTED  MILK   STARTLED   MOUNTED  STEVEDORES    WORST 
DAFFY   PILL-TAKERS   CLASHED-WITH   PLANTED  SUFFERERS 
DISTANT   RICHNESS   CLAIMED    PHANTOMS'   CONCENTRATION 
DIRECT   DIALING   WEAKENED    PRONOUNCED   MAGNETISM 
DOLOROUS    WITS   BRAGGED   MAINLY    ABOUT   MASTERPIECES 
DEIFIED   GIANTS   HEARD   PLENTIFUL   FLAMENCOS    WEARILY 
DIABOLICAL   FIGHTERS   BLASTED    SAINTLY    PEACENIKS 
DRAB  KILLERS   HEADED   MAINLAND   ARMIES    WASTEFULLY 
DOGGED   WITNESSES    FRAZZLED   FLINTY   PROSECUTORS 
DROMEDARIES   PISSED-ON   FLASHY    FLANEURS   PUNGENTLY 
DEACONS    FINESSED   CRAZED    PLANTERS   BRAVELY 
DARK    FIBERS   COATED    GRANOLITHIC   PUPPETS    ON-WHEELS 
DANK    RIBBONS   SHADED   STANDARDIZED    MACKERELS 
DEFIANT    TICKET-AGENTS    DRAFTED   RAUNCHY    THESES 
DENSE  KIBITZERS    GRATED   CLANNISH   PLAYERS   WEIRDLY 
DUSKY    PIANOS    GRANDLY   SOUNDED    FULGENTLY    WAILING 
DROOPY   FIXERS   DIAPERED   SPONTANEOUS   BABIES    WARILY 
DAINTY    PILLOWS    GRACED    DIONYSIAN    ORGIES    WEDNESDAY 
DEWY    DIAMOiJDS   CRACKED    IRON   CASTE   WALLS    DAILY 
DOCILE   DIALECTICIANS   PRANCED   BRONZE   HORSES   WRYLY 


214 


DECENT    BICYCLISTS    STAGED    THINGS    TRIBES    WITNESSED  '::)\ 

DURABLE   LITTLE   LEAVES    THEN    WANDERED    WISTFULLY  \ 

DOORS    SITUATED    IN*-PAIRS    OPENED    ONTO^-GARDENS  ^    ^ 

DREAMERS    HIT    FLATTERERS   BEING    PROFESSORS    WINCING  O 

DOCTORS    VISITED   CLASSES    PAINTING   TASTEFUL    WOIOEN 

DEFENDED   KINGS    PLACED   MANNERS   ABOVE-CAREERS 

DISCOVERERS   BIT   LEAF-BUDS    SPUN    OVER«-DRI VERS  O 

DIGNITARIES    DINED    WI  TH«-AGASSIZ   AS    PRINCES    WINCED 

DRI.VKERS    LIVED    TRAGICALLY    RUNNING   STATES    WRONGLY  ^ 

DUKE<-KARL*-AUGUST   LIKED   HEADY    DINNERS   AND   TABLES  O 

DIFFIDENT   DISPUTES   SHADED   THINKERS   EVIDENTLY   WET 

DEMOCRATIC    TIMIDITY    DEADENED    OPINIONS    IN«-DISSENT  _ 

DEVELOPERS    DIFFERENTIATED   CLASSES    WHEN   STUDENTS  O 

DEMOCRATS    DISCUSSED    ERASMUS    AND   CHANCE   TENDERLY 

DEWEY    DISCOURAGED    TEASERS   SPONTANEOUSLY    AGREEING  _ 

DESTINY    WILLED   BEATINGS    THE-STRONGEST   SUFFERED  O 

DISASTERS    LIBERALS   REALIZED   STUNNED   WHITEHEAD 

DISTANT    FINLAND'S   COASTS    FOUNDED   UNIVERSITIES 

DAMASK    VIVIDLY    SEASONABLE   DOWNED   WESTERNERS  O 

DEFENDERS    LIBERATED   CRASHERS    DRUNK    I N-CATHEDRALS 

DRINKERS    DINED«-ON   CHAMPAGNE   THINKERS    DENIED 

DELICATE   DISHES   REALLY    THINNED   LUCIEN    WINTRILY  O 

DEFENSE   WITNESSES   SCARED    SCANDALOUS   JUDGES 

DEMONSTRATORS   BILKED   ACADEMICIANS    GIANTS   ABUSED 

DEDICATED   PILLAGERS   CLAIMED   HAUNTED   HOUSES  O 

DUCKS    PINCHED    CHAINED   BRINKMEN   STONED    ON«-WINE 

DAPHNIS    PINNED   CHALKY    FLANKS   CHLOE   WHIPPED   BADLY 

DEFIERS    DISMAYED    PRAGMATISTS    NANNY«-GOATS   BUTTED  •' 

DELICIOUS    PITTED    PEACHES    RUINED    PROMETHEANS 

DANGEROUS    MINKS    GRABBED   SKINNED   BEAVERS    WANTONLY 

DAPPER    WITS    FRAMED   FRANCISCANS    REGRETTING    WASTE  -^ 

DAMNATION   SICKENED   BRAIDED    FLUNKIES   SCAVENGING 

DRIFTERS    JILTED   PIANISTS    NEON    NUMBED   WONDERFULLY  _ 

DATURA    PICKERS    WEAKENED   PRANCING   PONIES    WOEFULLY  O 

DECEPTIVELY    DINAH    DEAFENED   CRINGING   PROLETARIANS 

DEPUTIES   DISINFECTED  CLARINETISTS   MEANLY   WEANED  ^ 

o 
o 

G 

o 

G 
G 

O 

o 
o 


who:-!  did  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAPPENED? 

"WHAT'S  HAPPE.NED,"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHERE  WAS  DAVID  WHEN  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED  HAD 
HAPPEiN'ED? 

"WHAT  HAPPENED?"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHOM  HAD  DAVID  ASKED  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

(         "WHAT  HAS  BEEN  HAPPENING?"  ASKED  DAVID. 

"WHAT  IS  HAPPENING?"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHAT  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 

C     HOW  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 

WHY  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 


216 


( 


c 


HAPPENING? 


WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING  WHEN  DAVID  WAS  ASKING 
<-   WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING? 

_      HOW  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  HAVE  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT 
^'      HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING? 


c 


WHY  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING? 
"WHAT'S  BEEN  HAPPENING?"  ASKED  DAVID. 


O    DAvID  ASKED  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING, 


c 


WHEN  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING? 

WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED  WHEN  DAVID  WAS  ASKING? 

C  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING  WHEN  DAVID  WAS  ASKING? 

HOW  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 
^   HAPPENING? 

.         WHERE  WAS  DAVID  WHEN  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING  WAS 
C   HAPPENING? 


WHY  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

HOW  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  HAVE  BEEN  ASKING  WHEN 
HE  WAS  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING? 


G 
C 

WHOM  HAD  DAVID  ASKED  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 
C      WHAT  HAPPENED  WHEN  DAVID  ASKED? 

DID  ANYTHING  HAPPEN  WHEN  DAVID  ASKED? 

HOW  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 
C   WHERE  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 


WHY  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAPPENED?  A&T 

DAVID  HAD  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING. 

WHERE  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 
HAPPENING? 

"WHAT  HAPPENED?"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED  WHEN  DAVID  WAS  ASKING? 

WHOM  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

DAVID  ASKED  WHAT  HAPPENED. 

HOW  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

"WHAT'S  BEEN  HAPPENING?"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHAT  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  DOING  WHEN  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 
HAPPENING  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING? 

WHOM  HAD  DAVID  ASKED  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

HOW  DID  DAVID  ASK? 

HOW  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  HAVE  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT 
WAS  HAPPENING  WHEN  HE  WAS  ASKING  ABOUT  IT? 

WHY  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING? 

WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED  WHEN  DAVID  WAS  ASKING? 

WHERE  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

"WHAT  HAPPENED?"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHERE  HAD  DAVID  ASKED  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

WHOM  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING? 

WHERE  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 

WHERE  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK?  \ 

WHERE  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAPPENED? 

WHY  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAPPENED? 

WAS  ANYTHING  HAPPENING  WHEN  DAVID  WAS  ASKING? 

WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING  WHEN  DAVID  WAS  ASKING? 

"WHAT'S  HAPPENED,"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHOM  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING? 

DAVID  HAD  ASKED  WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING. 


HOW  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  HAVE  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT 
WAS  HAPPENING  WHEN  HE  WAS  ASKING  ABOUT  IT? 


c. 


C 


"WHAT  HAPPEMED?"  ASKED  DAVID. 

WHERE  WAS  DAVID  WHEN  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING  WAS 
HAPPENING? 

WHOM  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 

WHERE  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

DAVID  HAD  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING. 

WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING  WHEN  DAVID  ASKED? 

WHY  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 
HAPPENING?  .   . 

WHY  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

DAVID  HAD  ASKED. 

...JVHERE  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

WHERE  .HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 
HAPPENING? 

HAD  ANYTHING  BEEN  HAPPENING  WHEN  DAVID  WAS 
ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING?  - 

WHOM  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 

WHOM  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

DAVID  HAD  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN  HAPPENING. 

WHY  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

WHERE  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 
HAPPENING? 

WHERE  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED? 

WHOM  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 

HOW  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAPPENED? 


218 


C     WHERE  WAS  DAVID  WHEN  WHAT  WAS  HAPPENING  WAS 
HAPPENING? 


^      WHEN  DID  DAVID  HAPPEN  TO  ASK? 

.  DAVID  HAD  ASKED  WHAT  HAD  SEEN  HAPPENING. 
HAD  ANYTHING  HAPPENED  WHEN  DAVID  ASKED? 
WHY  DID  DAVID  ASK  WHAT  HAPPENED? 


HOW  HAD  DAVID  BEEN  ASKING  WHAT  HAD  BEEN 

C   HAPPENING? 

WHERE  WAS  DAVID  WHEN  WHAT  HAD  HAPPENED  HAD 

C   HAPPENED? 


WHAT    PEOPLE    FLY?    WHERE    ARE   THE    BLACK    ORCHIDS'? 

GREY   LIANAS    VIOLATE    GREEN    TREES.    PARROTS   EAT,  So<v>^^M 

AN   ORANGE   LIZARD    IS    EATING   BLUE   EGGS.  '     "^  =^ 

AN   ARMADILLO   EATS   A    GREYISH    SNAKE.    BIRDS   SCREAM, 
■BIRDS'   EGGS   ARE   GREY    AGAINST   A    BLUE-GREY    SKY. 

S*!AKES  AND  COATIMUNDIS  PEOPLE  A  BROWN  TREE. 

EGGS  LIZARDS  AND  SNAKES  CRUSH  ARE  FRAIL. 

AN  ANCIENT  ZEBRA  SCREAMS  AT  A  JAGUAJ?. 

ARE  THERE  ANY  PEOPLE  HERE? 

A  BIRD  EATS  A  FLY.  A  TAPIR  EATS  A  BIRD. 
A  JAGUAR  JUMPS  ONTO  A  BLACK  BRANCH.  PARROTS  EAT. 
BLACK-AND-WHITE  ZEBRAS  RACE  ACROSS  DRY  SAVANNAS, 
PEOPLE  PEER  AT  IGNORANT  COATIMUNDIS. 

BIRDS  FLY  ACROSS  PEERING  MANDRILLS'  FACES. 
PARROTS  RACE  ACROSS  VIOLET  ORCHIDS, 
FIERCE  SNAKES  EAT  ANCIENT  COATIMUNDIS, 
ANCIENT  PEOPLE  EAT  GREEN  PARROTS'  EGGS. 

AN  ANCIENT  JAGUAR  CRACKS  AN  ARMADILLO. 
EGGS  LIZARDS  AND  SNAKES  CRUSH  ARE  FRAIL, 
PEOPLE  ARE  SHEARING  IGNORANT  SCREAMING  ZEBRAS, 
BROWN  ARMADILLOS  SCREAM  AT  IGNORANT  PEOPLE, 
VIOLET  TREE  TOADS  VIOLATE  VIOLET  ORCHIDS, 
PEOPLE  SCREAM  AS  ORANGE  LIZARDS  CRUSH  SNAKES. 
RED  PEOPLE  PEER  THROUGH  DRY  PURPLE  LIANAS, 
AN  ORANGE  LIZARD  IS  EATING  BLUE  EGGS. 
SLITHERING  TREE  SNAKES  EAT  BLUE  BIRDS*  EGGS, 
SNAKES  EAT. 
BROWN  BABOONS  VIOLATE  VIOLET  TOADS. 
BIRDS'  EGGS  ARE  GREY  AGAINST  A  BLUE-GREY  SKY. 


ri  • 


( 


'  c 


L 


ANGRY  RED  PARROTS  ARE  SCREAMING  OVERHEAD. 
BIRDS  CROSS  GREY  SKIES. 

PARROTS  EAT  TOADS.  ARE  THERE  ANY  PEOPLE  HERE? 
''^         A  GREYISH  TAPIR  TAPS  A  SLOW  ARMADILLO. 


220 


A  GREYISH  TAPIR  TAPS  A  SLOW  ARMADILLO. 

(  FIERCE  SNAKES  EAT  ANCIENT  COATIMUNDIS. 

BROWN  ARMADILLOS  SCREAM  AT  IGNORANT  PEOPLE. 

BIRDS  SCREAM.  AN  ARMADILLO  EATS  A  GREYIS><  SNAKE. 

C  PEOPLE  ARE  SHEARING  IGNORANT  SCREAMING  ZEBRAS, 

WHERE  ARE  THE  BLACK  ORCHIDS? 

A  BIRD  EATS  A  FLY. 

C     LIZARDS  ON  BRANCHES  ARE  EATING  FLIES. 

MANDRILLS  SCREAM.  BLUE  BIRDS  FLY  IN  A  GREY  SKY. 
G 

BABOONS  VIOLATE  BANANAS  IN  VIOLET  TREES. 

O         ANGRY  RED  PARROTS  ARE  SCREAMING  OVERHEAD. 

A  BROWN  BIRD  RACES  PARROTS  ACROSS  THE  SKY. 

GREY  LIANAS  VIOLATE  GREEN  TREES. 

C         BLACK-AND-WHITE  ZEBRAS  RACE  ACROSS  DRY  SAVANNAS. 

ANGRY  PEOPLE  ARE  EATING  TREE  SNAKES  AND  BIRDS, 

FLIES  EAT. 

C  -     PARROTS  EAT  TOADS.  ARE  THERE  ANY  PEOPLE  HERE? 

EGGS  LIZARDS  AND  SNAKES  CRUSH  ARE  FRAIL. 

A  BROWN  MANDRILL  CRACKS  TANNISH  EGGS.  BIRDS  EAT, 

C    SNAKES  AND  COATIMUNDIS  PEOPLE  A  BROWN  TREE. 

AN  ARMADILLO  TAPS  A  BLACK  BRANCH. 

PARROTS  EAT  TOADS. 

C  TAPIRS  JUMP.  ZEBRAS  RACE  ACROSS  DRY  BRANCHES. 

MANDRILLS  JUMP  TOADS. 

WHAT  ARE  THE  FLIES  DOING? 

A  GREYISH  TAPIR  CRUSHES  FRAIL  EGGS. 

GREY  LIANAS  VIOLATE  GREEm  TREES. 


BABOONS  JUMP.  PEOPLE  AND  FLIES  VIOLATE  ORCHIDS.  "'■      ^^"^ 

PARROTS  RACE  ACROSS  VIOLET  ORCHIDS.   ZEBRAS  EAT. 
FLIES  IGNORE  ARMADILLOS  AND  TOUGH  COATIMUNDIS. 
PEOPLE  ARE  SHEARING  IGNORANT  SCREAMING  ZEBRAS.  ^   _ 

o 

A  TOUGH  RED-AND-GREEN  PARROT  SCREAMS  AT  A  TOAD. 
ZEBRAS  RACE  JAGUARS  AND  GREYISH  MANDRILLS.  O 

FLIES  FLY.  ^ 

,  o 

BIRDS  SCREAM.  AN  ARMADILLO  EATS  A  GREYISH  SNAKE. 
A  GREEN  LIZARD  PEERS  AT  A  TOUGH  MANDRILL.  O 

WHAT  PEOPLE  FLY? 

o 

PEOPLE  AND  FLIES  VIOLATE  ORCHIDS. 

LIZARDS   JUMP   BABOONS.    A    BIRD  EATS   A   LIZARD.  O 

PEOPLE   SCREAM   AT   GREEN-AND-VI OLET   TOADS. 
PEOPLE   ARE   SHEARING    IGNORANT   SCREAMING   ZEBRAS.. 

PEOPLE   ARE   SHEARING   IGNORANT   SCREAMING   ZEBRAS. 
PEOPLE  SCREAM   AT   GREEN-AND-VIOLET   TOADS, 
YELLOW   PARROTS   RACE   ANCIENT   JAGUARS,  .     - 

ARMADILLOS   JUMP.  O 

A   TOUGH    RED-AND-GREEN   PARROT   SCREAMS    AT   A   TOAD.  ^ 

o 

PEOPLE  SCREAM  WHILE  GREEN  TOADS  VIOLATE  PARROTS. 

ZEBRAS  RACE  JAGUARS  AND  GREYISH  MANDRILLS.  O 

MANDRILLS  IGNORE  ARMADILLOS  AND  COATIMUNDIS.  ^ 

o 

A  GREEN  LIZARD  PEERS  AT  A  TOUGH  MANDRILL. 
WHAT  PEOPLE  FLY?  O 

BABOONS  VIOLATE  BANANAS  IN  VIOLET  TREES. 

FLIES  IGNORE  ARMADILLOS  AND  TOUGH  COATIMUNDIS, 


o 

O 


o 

o 
o 


ANGRY   ARMADILLOS   ARE   SCREAMING   AT    RED   PARROTS. 
MANDRILLS    IGNORE  ARMADILLOS   AND  COATIMUNDIS. 

A   GREY   TOAD   EATS   A   GREEN-AND-0RAN6E   FLY.  O 

ZEBRAS  JUMP.    PURPLE-FACED  MANDRILLS   ARE   FIERCE. 


222 


KO  ■■  c 


JML;PAIRS1$L 

JMLjTRANSlSL 

•f 

ALWAYS  ARE  PARAMETERS  ENERGIES  TRANSFORMING  ALL 
ENERGIES 
ENERGIES  ALWAYS 

ALL  TRANSFORMING  ALWAYS  •  '' 

ALWAYS  PARAMETERS 

ENERGIES  PARAMETERS  ALL  ALWAYS  TRANSFORMING  ARE 
ARE  ALWAYS  TRANSFORMING  ENERGIES  PARAMETERS  ALL 
ENERGIES  TRANSFORMING  PARAMETERS  ARE  ALL 
ARE 

TRANSFORMING  PARAMETERS  ENERGIES  ARE  ALWAYS  ALL 
ENERGIES  PARAMETERS 
ENERGIES  ALWAYS  TRANSFORMING  ALL  ARE  PARAMETERS 
ENERGIES  ALWAYS  PARAMETERS  ARE  TRANSFORMING  ALL 
O     TRANSFORMING  ARE  ENERGIES  ALWAYS  ALL  PARAMETERS 
PARAMETERS  ALWAYS 
ENERGIES 
C       PARAMETERS  ARE 

PARAMETERS  ARE 
TRANSFORMING  ARE 
^   ALL  ARE  ENERGIES  PARAMETERS       -      -■        ' 
PARAMETERS  ALL 
PARAMETERS 

ENERGIES  ARE  ALL  PARAMETERS  TRANSFORMING  ALWAYS 
ALL  ALWAYS  ENERGIES  TRANSFORMING  PARAMETERS 

ALWAYS  ENERGIES  TRANSFORMING  ARE  PARAMETERS 


^^ 


ARE  TRANSFORMING  ALWAYS  ENERGIES  ALL 
ALWAYS  ARE  ENERGIES  ALL  TRANSFORMING 
PARAMETERS  ENERGIES  ALL  ARE 
ALL  ALWAYS 
ARE 
TRANSFORMING  ALWAYS  ARE 


A&T 


o 

o 


TRANSFORMING  O 


O 


O 

o 


ALL  PARAMETERS  ENERGIES  ALWAYS  ARE 
ALWAYS 

TRANSFORMING  PARAMETERS  ENERGIES  ALL  .       ^ 

ARE  ALWAYS  ENERGIES  PARAMETERS  ALL 
ALWAYS  ENERGIES  TRANSFORMING  ALL 

ENERGIES  ARE  ALL  PARAMETERS  ALWAYS 
ALL  PARAMETERS  ALWAYS  ENERGIES  TRANSFORMING 
ENERGIES  ALL  ARE  TRANSFORMING 
TRANSFORMING  ALL  ALWAYS  ENERGIES 
ALL 
ENERGIES  ALWAYS  ARE  TRANSFORMING 
TRANSFORMING  ENERGIES  ALL  ARE  PARAMETERS  ALWAYS 
PARAMETERS  ALWAYS  ALL  TRANSFORMING 
ENERGIES  TRANSFORMING  ALL  ALWAYS 
ALL  ALWAYS  ARE  PARAMETERS  TRANSFORMING  ENERGIES 
ALL  ENERGIES  ARE  TRANSFORMING  PARAMETERS 


G 

O 
G 
O 

o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 


Robert  Mallary 

Born  Toledo,  Ohio,  1917 
Resident  Amherst,  IVlassachusetts 


Charles  Mattox 

Born  Bronson,  Kansas,  1910 

Resident  Albuquerque,  New  iVlexico 


224 


In  early  November,  1967,  while  investigating  the  possi- 
bility of  making  sculpture  via  the  computer,  Robert 
Mallary  sent  us  a  written  description  of  the  system  he 
was  employing  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  in 
Amherst.  Mallary's  work  in  this  area  had  its  origins  in  his 
research  in  the  mid-forties  into  various  types  of  three- 
dimensional  cinematographic  projection.  He  wrote. 
What  I  propose,  put  in  its  simplest  terms,  is  this:  that 
I  create  a  simple  structural  form  here  in  Amherst 
which  is  contoured,  digitalized  and  taped.  The  com- 
puter on  the  campus  is  hooked  up  for  a  few  minutes 
(probably  only  a  few  seconds)  with  a  computer,  say 
at  Cal  Tech  and  the  constituent  contour  of  the  form 
emerges  out  there  as  a  print  out.  These  are  taken  over 
by  technicians  at  the  Museum,  photographed  on  to 
slides,  enlarged  by  projection  on  to  plywood  (or 
possibly  plastic)  sheets,  cut  out,  assembled  as  a  lami- 
nate, surfaced  (to  eliminate  the  contour  'steps')  and 
polished. 

In  August  1968,  Mallary  told  us  of  a  simplified  method 
that  could  be  used  to  produce  a  sculpture  by  converting 
the  output  to  paper  tape  and  guiding  thereby  "a  numer- 
ically controlled  tool  which  would  directly  carve  out  the 
sculpture." 


^D-^-cra 


In  the  spring  of  1969,  kinetic  sculptor  Charles  Mattox 

sent  us  plans  for  a  proposed  fountain. 

Fountain  consists  of  a  fibre  glass  shell,  eight  feet  high, 
six  and  one-half  feet  through  center.  It  would  be  a 
contained  system,  the  upper  section  above  the  seal 
would  have  a  pattern  of  photo  cells  over  the  surface 
up  to  the  jets.  These  cells  would  produce  electrical 
energy  from  light  and  store  it  in  the  sixteen  batteries. 
The  level  of  power  storage  would  actuate  a  voltage 
regulator  switch  and  when  the  correct  level  was 
achieved  the  pumps  would  operate.  The  pumps  to  be 
controlled  by  a  timer  and  the  jets  to  squirt  in  a  rota- 
ting pattern  that  will  be  tuned  to  the  natural  cycle  of 
the  mass  so  that  a  rotating  oscillation  of  the  piece  is 
achieved.  When  the  energy  level  in  the  batteries  drops 
to  a  predetermined  point,  the  pumps  shut  off  and 
cells  again  recharge  the  batteries.  The  inner  water 
level  will  be  controlled  by  a  float  valve  and  switch. 


The  piece  would  be  anchored  with  a  swivel  at  the 
base  to  prevent  its  drifting.  The  weight  inside  will  be 
adjusted  to  hold  the  piece  in  an  upright  position. 


John  McCracken 

Born  Berkeley,  California,  1934 
Resident  Venice,  California 


Glenn  McKay 

Born  Kansas  City,  Kansas,  1936 
Resident  San  Rafael,  California 


A&T 


Los  Angeles  sculptor  John  McCracken  toured  Litton 
Industries  and  Philco-Ford  in  March,  1969.  After  study- 
ing company  brochures  and  reflecting  on  his  two  tours, 
he  indicated  to  us  that  although  both  facilities  interested 
him,  he  had  no  specific  project  involving  electronics  in 
mind.  But  he  explained,  in  a  letter  to  us, 

The  only  possibility  I  consequently  see  at  this  point  is 
to  go  into  it  with  pretty  much  that  attitude— not 
knowing  at  all  what  might  happen,  and  maybe  even 
accepting  the  possibility  that  nothing  might  happen 
beyond  the  occurence  of  an  educational  experience 
for  me  and  hopefully  for  the  engineers  as  well.  This 
would  be  a  meeting  of  minds  interested  in  doing 
something  together,  with  very  few  preconceptions  on 
either  side,  and  as  I  think  about  it  it  seems  like  a 
pretty  exciting  idea. 

Since  he  was  in  New  York  for  several  months, 
McCracken  asked  that  we  not  reserve  either  company  for 
him,  but  said  that  on  his  return  he  would  like  to  visit 
Kaiser  Steel  Corporation.  Kaiser,  however,  was  already 
working  with  Richard  Serra.  Instead  we  took  McCracken 
to  Norris  Industries'  bathroom  fixture  manufacturing 
plant,  but  the  facility  did  not  inspire  him  to  propose 
working  there. 


Glenn  McKay  leads  a  light  show  group  called  Head 
Lights  based  in  San  Francisco.  On  the  recommendation 
of  Hal  Glicksman,  we  invited  McKay  to  propose  a  work 
for  A  &  T.  He  wanted  to  build  a  multi-media  environ- 
ment including  an  array  of  closed-circuit  televisions, 
movie  screens  and  a  programmed  sound  system.  HG 
took  him  to  RCA,  and  McKay  returned  several  times  on 
his  own  in  the  process  of  refining  his  proposal. 

In  April,  1969,  he  presented  to  us  plans  outlining  the 
environment,  which  was  to  be  a  U-shaped  room,  each 
wall  containing  a  movie  screen  surrounded  by  sixteen 
televisions.  Each  of  the  forty-eight  closed  circuit  tele- 
vision cameras  would  focus  differently  on  the  spectators; 
one  would  locate  on  a  face;  another  would  be  a  wide- 
angle  view  of  the  crowd,  etc.  These  live  images  were  to 
be  superimposed  over  a  sequence  of  previously  taped 
abstract  images.  Simultaneously  on  the  central  screen  of 
each  wall  McKay's  special  type  of  light  show  would  be 
projected.  Programmed  into  the  visual  display  would  be 
a  sound  sequence  comprising  music  by  Eric  Satie,  elec- 
tronic noise,  the  Jefferson  Airplane  and  Marshall 
McLuhan  reading. 

McKay  came  to  Los  Angeles  to  make  a  special  presenta- 
tion of  this  ambitious  display  at  RCA.  They  studied  the 
proposal,  projected  a  cost  estimate  and  submitted  both 
to  the  New  York  office  for  consideration.  Several  weeks 
later  we  received  word  that  RCA  turned  it  down  on  the 
basis  of  prohibitive  expense. 


Boyd  Mefferd 

Born  St.  Louis,  Missouri,  1941 
Resident  New  York  City 


226 


Jane  Livingston  went  to  see  Ralph  T.  Coe's  Magic  Thea- 
tre exhibition  in  Kansas  City  in  June,  1968  and  reported 
that  Boyd  Mefferd's  piece  was  in  her  view  the  most 
interesting  work  presented.  She  wrote  in  the  September 
Artforum, 

Boyd  Mefferd's  Strobe-Lighted  Floor  was .  .  . 
unquestionably  the  most  important  work  in  the  exhi- 
bition. In  it,  one  entered  a  large,  carpeted  room  con- 
taining square  lucite  floor  insets,  spaced  regularly  in  a 
simple  grid  pattern,  each  surmounting  a  strobe  light 
made  to  fire  with  capacitor  overflow,  and  thus  'ran- 
domly,' as  the  viewer  walked  about  the  room.  The 
lights  were  placed  beneath  colored  filters,  but  ap- 
peared white  on  actually  looking  at  the  flash— only 
the  after-image  took  on  color.  On  first  entering  the 
room,  my  impression  was  that  the  lights  emanated 
from  walls,  ceiling  and  floor,  and  even  when  I  had 
become  oriented  to  the  location  of  the  light  sources, 
it  was  impossible  to  look  at  them,  or  to  discover  by 
looking  at  any  particular  spot  in  the  room  precisely 
what  was  happening  all  around  at  a  given  moment.  In 
short,  what  Mefferd  presented  was  a  way  of  seeing 
(retinal  images)  that  does  not  relate  to  looking  direct- 
ly at  an  object  or  objects.  Unlike  most  of  the  other 
environments  in  the  exhibition,  the  spectator  was  not 
compelled  to  move  in  any  specific  way,  or  to  'play' 
the  work,  in  order  to  fully  apprehend  it.  Certainly  the 
dream-like  sensation  of  having  one's  head  filled  with 
vaguely  colored  images  which  endure,  multiply  and 
actually  seem  to  assume  different  shapes,  and  to 
expand  or  contract,  to  sharpen  and  fade,  is  an  extra- 
ordinary state.  By  limiting  himself  to  a  basically 
simple  format  and  allowing  only  the  effect  that  inter- 
ested him  to  make  itself  discernible,  Mefferd  succeed- 
ed in  exploiting  that  effect  to  a  high  degree. 

On  the  basis  of  the  Magic  Theatre  piece,  we  contacted 
Mefferd  and  asked  him  to  consider  working  with  a  com- 
pany which  would  allow  him  new  technical  possibilities. 
He  responded, 

...  I  should  be  able  to  get  right  to  work  on  a  floor 
unit  which  will  have  two  side-by-side  rows  of  50  flash 
tubes  each,  arranged  so  that  the  protective  glass  for 
each  unit  joins  the  one  next  to  it,  eliminating  the 
carpeted  sections  of  the  Magic  Theatre  format,  and 
making  continuous  blankets  of  intense  light  possible. 
Also,  instead  of  the  random  firing  of  the  Magic  Thea- 
tre, this  work  will  be  fully  programmed.  I  think  that 
this  kind  of  work  must  move  in  the  direction  of  in- 
creased control  if  many  of  its  possibilities  are  to  be 
developed  and  effectively  presented.  I  have  been 
experimenting  with  a  ring-counter  type  of  circuit 
which  will  fire  the  entire  line  of  lamps,  or  part  of  it, 
with  microsecond  delays  between  each  lamp,  so  that 
as  an  after  image,  one  end  of  the  line  is  different  in 
color  from  the  other,  and  the  change  between  ends  is 
completely  gradual.  Color  in  this  case  is  completely  a 


product  of  timing,  and  not  of  color  filters  as  was  the 
case  in  the  Magic  Theatre.  Obviously  I  won't  know 
how  well  this  will  work  until  the  100  lamp  unit  is 
finished,  hopefully  late  this  winter.  From  this  kind  of 
stripe  experiment,  I  would  like  to  go  directly  into  a 
20'  x  30'  or  so  floor  of  continuous  flash  tubes,  with 
about  600  separate  units.  This  would  require  quite  an 
elaborate  tape  programmer,  and  I  would  have  to  work 
with  someone  like  IBM  if  many  of  the  various  possi- 
bilities were  to  be  worked  out.  This  is  the  kind  of 
work  that  I  would  like  to  build  in  Los  Angeles. 

IBM  was  at  this  time  seriously  considering  a  major  pro- 
ject we  had  proposed  with  Victor  Vasarely.  Since  we 
could  not  approach  them  about  Mefferd,  as  he  had  sug- 
gested, we  went  to  Litton  Industries,  which  had  already 
had  unsuccessful  encounters  and  discussions  with  three 
artists:  Robert  Morris,  John  McCracken  and  Vjenceslav 
Richter.  Litton  had  thus  far  offered  for  an  artist's  use 
only  one  of  their  many  divisions,  which  dealt  in  the  area 
of  microcircuitry.  We  requested  of  Litton  that  more  of 
their  diverse  facilities  be  made  available  for  potential 
artistic  use,  and  that  serious  consideration  be  given 
Mefferd's  proposals. 

Litton  seemed  to  respond  favorably.  Fred  Fajardo,  in 
the  public  relations  department  of  the  head  office,  be- 
came our  new  contact  man,  and  offered  us  information 
about  other  divisions.  Mefferd  then  toured  Litton  in  Los 
Angeles  and  wrote  us  from  New  York  on  June  12,  1969: 
The  idea  of  the  project  is  still  wearing  well  on  me.  If  I 
am  to  work  with  Litton,  it  would  be  good  to  spend 
more  time  snooping  around  ....  My  last  four  years 
or  so  of  working  with  lights  and  circuitry  seem  to 
have  taken  me  into  various  areas  of  mildly  complex 
equipment,  to  seeming  dead  ends,  now  only  to  put 
me  back  into  an  area  where  most  everything  I  want  to 
do  can  be  accomplished  fairly  simply  ....  Without 
my  experiments  I  would  not  have  come  so  clearly  on 
my  simple  works,  of  course,  but  I  do  seem  to  be  in  a 
state  of  mind  where  complex  ideas  seem  unnecessary. 
Complexity  being  the  advantage  of  Litton  (or  very 
new  materials,  used  simply,  which  is  also  probably  a 
complex  process  of  some  sort),  my  ideas  for  other 
work  would  probably  have  to  come  out  of  the  advan- 
tages of  what  they  could  show  me  rather  than  any- 
thing I  might  know  about  now. 

Based  on  the  meetings  with  Litton  personnel,  we  expec- 
ted that  the  company  would  execute  this  project,  which 
was  already  fairly  well  conceived,  and  then  might 
prompt  Boyd  to  explore  fresh  areas  of  invention.  Two 
weeks  went  by,  with  no  commitment  forthcoming  from 
Litton. 

On  June  16  Hal  Glicksman  called  Fajardo  and  wrote  the 
following  memo  to  MT: 


227 


A&T 


Call  to  Fajardo.  Litton  does  not  like  Mefferd's  pro- 
ject, too  much  expense  in  non-Litton  material  and 
Litton  contribution  would  be  very  simple-minded, 
and  it  could  be  done  at  any  computer  facility. 

We  asked  Boyd  to  call  Fajardo  himself  and  explain  his 
position.  HG  wrote  this  memo  to  MT  on  June  27,  1969: 
10:30  call  from  Mefferd.  Call  with  Fajardo  ended 
vaguer  than  he  would  have  liked.  iVIefferd  had  to 
admit  that  there  was  no  necessary  reason  that  only 
Litton  could  take  on  the  project.  IVIefferd  said  he  was 
not  there  to  think  up  technological  puzzles  but  to 
bring  them  ART. 

1 1 :00  from  Fajardo.  Project  is  very  expensive  and 
does  not  seem  to  be  especially  a  'Litton  type  of  pro- 
ject,' others  could  do  it,  etc.  He  asked  what  others 
were  doing,  and  I  gave  him  the  bit  about  Universal 
film  studio's  project  being  simplistic  but  costly,  etc. 
'F'  was  impressed  that  we  wanted  the  project  so 
much.  He  said  he  would  have  trouble  selling  the  pro- 
ject to  higher  ups.  I  said  we  sold  them  on  A  &  T  and 
we  can  sell  them  the  project.  He  said,  'You  may  have 
to  do  that.' 

Fajardo  set  up  a  meeting  with  us  and  James  Lewis,  Di- 
rector of  Public  Relations  and  Advertising.  No  signifi- 
cant objections  were  raised  by  Lewis;  indeed  the  tenor 
of  the  discussion  was  optimistic,  even  enthusiastic,  since 
we  were  considering  the  Mefferd  room  as  a  definite 
possibility  for  the  U.S.  Pavilion  at  Expo  70.  Nevertheless 
the  project  was  refused  by  Litton,  for  reasons  no  more 
explicit  than  appear  in  HG's  memos  cited  above.  We 
despaired  of  Litton  but  pressed  on  for  Mefferd.  RCA 
officially  joined  A  &  T  at  about  this  moment,  signing  a 
Patron  Sponsor  contract  after  having  for  several  months 
studied  proposals  by  Vasarely  and  Glenn  McKay  and 
eventually  turning  them  down.  With  these  artists  out  of 
consideration,  we  approached  RCA's  Government  and 
Commercial  Systems  Division  in  Van  Nuys,  California 
with  Mefferd's  project,  and  we  simultaneously  urged 
Mefferd  to  personally  contact  Julius  Haber  of  RCA  in 
New  York.  Mr.  Haber  is  directly  responsible  to  Dr. 
Robert  Sarnoff,  President  of  RCA,  and  we  had  been 
informed  that  Dr.  Sarnoff,  an  art  collector,  would  per- 
sonally inspect  any  art  project  involving  the  company. 
Boyd  saw  Haber  in  early  August  and  followed  up  with  a 
letter  to  him  on  August  20: 

I  am  enclosing  a  few  of  the  things  published  on  my 
Strobe-Lighted  Floor  which  was  originally  shown  in 
Kansas  City,  and  later  in  St.  Louis,  Toledo,  Montreal, 
and  will  be  seen  this  year  in  New  York.  Other  descrip- 
tions appeared  in  Time,  Newsweek,  and  a  number  of 
other  publications.  Essentially  this  work  is  serving  as 
my  prototype  for  the  Los  Angeles  project,  and  helps 
me  speculate  on  the  psychological  impact  of  the 
larger,  more  powerful  floor  which  will  be  built  there. 


The  Los  Angeles  floor  will  differ  in  that  the  negative, 
non-luminous  carpeted  areas  of  the  Strobe- Lighted 
Floor  are  not  in  the  plan,  and  instead  the  entire  floor 
will  be  glass,  with  a  flash  unit  under  each  of  500 
sections.  The  floor  will  become  one  positive,  lumi- 
nous sheet  of  light  and  electrical  energy,  and  viewers 
will  see  each  other  etched  as  dark  shapes  in  what  I 
guess  will  be  the  most  luminous  background  there  has 
ever  been.  This  is  a  direct  reversal  of  the  figure- 
ground  relationship  in  traditional  art.  Color  will  be 
produced  as  a  product  of  timing,  taking  advantage  of 
a  chain  of  retinal  reactions  which  are  triggered  by 
bombarding  the  light-adapted  eye  with  a  brilliant 
flash  of  pure  white  light. 

I  am  sympathetic  with  RCA's  interest  in  wanting  to 
take  advantage  of  your  most  recent  and  impressive 
advances  in  electronics  and  color  television.  I  realize 
that  if  a  good  work  of  art  can  possibly  be  made 
around  these,  it  would  be  the  best  statement  of  the 
unique  qualities  of  RCA.  I  realize  that  any  one  of  a 
number  of  companies  has  the  technological  capability 
to  build  my  work.  The  only  solid  reasons  I  can  give 
you  for  building  mine  is  that  I  think  it  will  be  good, 
and  that  it  will  be  very  electric,  a  really  massive  use  of 
electric  power,  controlled  for  esthetic  ends.  To  the 
general  public  RCA  is  an  enormous,  diverse  company, 
involved  in  everything  from  making  washing  machines 
to  getting  men  on  the  moon,  and  electricity  is  the 
only  common  ground  which  runs  the  gamut  from 
Johnny  Carson  to  integrated  circuits.  While  RCA 
executives  have  one  idea  of  what  RCA  is,  and  would 
appreciate  your  most  recent  advances  shown  in  a  new 
way,  an  artist's  way,  I  imagine  that  the  public  sees 
RCA  in  a  completely  different  way,  doesn't  know 
what  you  can  already  do,  and  will  look  at  anything 
that  you  can  do  well  and  powerfully  as  something 
good  and  memorable,  whether  it  is  technically  in- 
volved or  not. 

My  entire  premise  for  a  good  work  of  art  is  that  it 
transcend  materials  to  reach  an  esthetic  consistency. 
Just  as  Whirlpool  takes  the  most  expedient  path  to 
making  a  good,  convenient  washer,  in  the  same  way  I 
am  dedicated  to  taking  the  most  direct  line  to  the 
best  work  of  art  I  can  make.  My  experience  with 
color  television  led  me  to  believe  that  it  is  a  cumber- 
some, limited  art  medium.  For  communications  and 
entertainment  it  is  ideal,  but  art  is  really  not  about 
communication  or  entertainment.  My  experience 
with  more  complicated  electronics  has  led  me  back  to 
attempting  very  precise  control  of  some  relatively 
simple  circuits.  I  think  that  the  reason  that  we  have 
seen  so  little  quality  in  art  and  technology  projects  is 
that  artists  have  spent  too  much  money  and  energy 
trying  to  compete  with  industrial  consumers  who 
need  advanced  technology  to  make  things  more 


228 


expedient.  Art,  and  an  artist's  standards,  are  still  quite 
different  from  the  motivations  of  industry,  and  it 
seems  out  of  place  to  expect  both  groups  to  be  able 
to  utilize  all  the  same  hardware.  Companies,  working 
with  industrial  aims,  have  tended  to  support  art 
works  which  best  demonstrate  their  products  and 
capabilities,  but  art  is  not  really  a  process  of  demon- 
stration. 

In  closing  I'd  like  to  add  that  I  am  more  than  a  little 
amused  when  you  think,  on  quick  examination,  that 
my  project  is  not  electronic.  As  a  paying  customer  in 
the  last  four  years  I  have  purchased  about  ten  thous- 
and dollars  worth  of  RCA  semiconductors  for  various 
exhibitions  and  commissions,  and  if  more  artists  were 
as  'non-electronic'  as  myself,  RCA  stock  just  might  go 
up  a  few  fractions. 

Julius  Haber  replied  immediately  to  Mefferd: 

Thank  you  for  your  letter  of  August  20th  and  the 
accompanying  material  describing  ^ our  Strobe- 
Lighted  Floor. 

These  were  very  carefully  reviewed  by  a  group  of  us, 
and  while  we  found  your  ideas  very  stimulating  the 
consensus  was,  regretfully,  that  we  would  forego  the 
opportunity  of  sponsoring  this  interesting  project 
because  it  seemed  too  far  afield  of  our  own  technical 
interests. 


We  do  appreciate  very  much  your  courtesy,  and  that 
of  Mr.  Tuchman,  in  giving  us  an  opportunity  to  look 
at  this  proposal. 

Next  we  tried  Wyle  Laboratories,  through  Frank  Wyle, 
President  of  the  company.  We  also  enlisted  the  services 
of  Los  Angeles  artist  Frederick  Eversley,  who  had  for- 
merly worked  for  Wyle  Labs  as  an  engineer.  Eversley  was 
hired  as  a  technical  consultant  to  A  &  T,  primarily  to 
resolve  the  Mefferd  situation.  We  felt  he  could  explain 
the  technical  needs  better  than  we  could,  and  also,  since 
he  knew  Frank  Wyle,  effectively  present  the  case  for  the 
important  esthetic  potential  of  the  work.  We  felt  then— 
correctly,  it  would  now  seem— that  resistance  to 
Mefferd's  proposal  was  based  on  the  corporation's  skep- 
ticism as  to  its  artistic  merit. 


Eversley  argued  brilliantly  for  the  work  as  a  suitable  and 
important  project  for  Wyle  Labs.  Frank  Wyle  remained 
unconvinced  of  its  potential  value,  wary  of  the  costs 
envisioned,  and  felt  not  at  all  challenged  by  the  nature 
of  the  technical  problems  involved  in  designing  a  control 
device  or  programmer.  Eversley  sought  to  clarify  and 
reduce  the  budget,  assuming,  as  we  all  did,  that  Wyle 
would  at  least  begin  to  interact  with  Boyd  if  the  com- 
pany's monetary  reluctance  could  be  assuaged.  Eversley 
wrote  to  numerous  Japanese  electronic  firms  in  an  effort 


I 


229 


A&T 


to  find  one  that  could  fabricate  five  hundred  strobe 
modules  at  a  reduced  rate,  since  the  lower  component 
and  labor  costs  in  Japan  would  be  more  economical  and 
also  cut  shipping  expense  for  installation  at  Expo. 

Encouraged  by  our  determination  to  find  a  company  for 
him,  Mefferd  made  a  small  working  model  of  the  piece 


in  his  New  York  studio.  This  was  seen  by  James  Kenion, 
Ivan  Chermayeff  and  Jack  Masey,  with  the  end  view  of 
including  the  resolved  environmental  work  in  the  U.S. 
Pavilion.  Everyone  was  impressed  with  the  mock-up,  and 
had  no  difficulty  imagining  its  impact  as  a  room-size 
work  containing  a  sophisticated  light  control  system. 


230 


Not  wishing  to  depend  on  Wyte's  decision  alone,  we 
extended  our  search  to  include  other  companies  that 
could  do  the  job,  or  part  of  it.  We  phoned  General  Elec- 
tric (Patron  Sponsor)  to  ask  for  a  donation  of  strobe 
units.  G.E.'s  Photo  Lamp  Department  declined,  but 
offered  a  discount  on  a  new  model.  In  New  York,  MT 
met  with  executives  of  the  Xerox  Corporation,  which 
owns  a  Pasadena-based  electronics  firm,  Electro-Optic 
Systems.  We  asked  Missy  Chandler  to  have  another  try  at 
Litton.  HG  wrote  and  phoned  Spiratone,  Inc.,  Rodan, 
and  E.G.  &  G.  Corporations. 

Boyd  iVIefferd  suggested  calling  Monsanto,  thinking  that 
a  plastics  contribution  would  be  helpful  to  provide  the 
facing  of  the  strobe  units  and  thereby  reduce  costs.  It 
should  be  noted  here  that  the  various  estimates  for  his 
project  were  strangely  inconsistent,  ranging  as  they  did 
from  $6,000  for  materials  and  construction,  to  $25,000. 
In  another  attempt  to  reduce  the  budget,  Mefferd  began 
designing  a  room  whose  walls,  rather  than  floors,  would 
contain  the  flashing  lights.  He  wrote  to  us  in  October, 
1969, 

I  am  pressing  the  idea  of  a  plastic  room,  because 
Monsanto  makes  plastic  buildings.  If  they  will  get 
into  this,  I  think  that  I  would  get  pretty  enthusiastic 
about  expanding  the  work  up  the  walls  more  and 
making  more  use  of  the  tall  space.  Dr.  Gordon  knows 
a  key  executive  at  May  Company,  and  if  Monsanto 
will  do  the  plastic  room,  I  think  that  he  can  approach 
May  Co.  to  help  with  the  electronics.  Then  perhaps  I 
can  keep  a  pretty  tight  control  on  them  and  hire  what 
technical  help  I  need  with  the  programmer.  I  would 
be  ready  to  start  work  on  that  immediately,  and  I  like 
the  idea  of  making  the  electronics  as  simple  as  pos- 
sible. I  suspect  that  once  I  get  into  it,  some  simple 
things  will  turn  out  to  be  significant.  If  I  am  in  con- 
trol of  that  aspect,  I  imagine  that  I  can  build  the 
controls  bit  by  bit  and  do  my  experimentation  as  I  go 
along,  and  thus  do  without  the  versatility  of  a  cross- 
bar scanner  or  other  elaborate  controls  which  would 
have  the  options  of  going  various  different  ways. 

Boyd  simultaneously  wrote  to  Richard  Gordon  at  Mon- 
santo in  St.  Louis, 

From  my  work,  the  originators  of  the  exhibition  are 
counting  on  a  high-impact  experience  which  will 
reach  a  large  number  of  people.  Rather  than  using  the 
floor,  as  I  did  in  the  Magic  Theatre,  in  Japan  I  will 
develop  an  entire  plastic  room  and  place  my  strobe 
lights  behind  the  walls.  The  luminous  plastic  interior 
will  become  the  artwork.  I  feel  that  collaboration 
with  Monsanto  could  result  in  developing  such  a 
plastic  interior,  and  I  hope  that  we  can  work  together 
on  it. 

We  also  put  Boyd  in  contact  with  Today's  Displays,  a 
fabricating  company  recommended  to  us  by  designers  of 


the  U.S.  Expo  Pavilion  Exhibition  Design  Team,  who 
had  had  experience  with  this  firm.  After  meeting  with 
Joseph  Grunwald  of  Today's  Displays,  Boyd  wrote  to 
'MT: 

I  am  not  too  impressed  by  Today's  Displays,  and  I 
don't  really  see  what  they  can  offer.  Grunwald  talked 
about  using  one  of  the  cheap  Japanese  photoflash 
units,  and  their  building  the  control.  I  have  great 
reservations  about  something  like  that.  I  feel  strongly 
that  we  should  try  to  build  our  own  flash  units  with 
the  lamp  that  GE  will  sell  us  for  $4.50  ea.  This  is 
vastly  better  equipment  than  the  little  Japanese  units 
and  will  give  us  longer  life,  more  light,  the  option  of 
changing  lamps  if  necessary,  and  the  advantage  of 
being  able  to  use  top  quality  parts  throughout  instead 
of  things  selected  to  make  the  cheapest  possible  units. 
I  think  that  a  good  flash  can  be  built  for  about  $40 
each,  including  labor.  For  250  units,  this  would  be 
$10,000  ....  Grunwald  was  talking  about  roughly 
$100  a  unit,  which  based  on  250  units  is  exorbitant. 
I'm  sure  they  can  do  some  good  things,  but  in  general 
they  seem  to  be  uninformed  and  over-priced.  I  will  do 
some  more  thinking  on  how  the  control  could  be 
handled  simply. 

By  the  end  of  October  every  lead  had  failed.  Wyle  had 
phoned  to  decline,  and  the  other  companies  we  had 
contacted  similarly  expressed  no  interest.  On  October 
31 ,  with  Mefferd's  project  hanging  fire,  and  the  USIA 
deadline  nearly  at  hand,  MT  remembered  M.A.  Gribin,  a 
collector  of  Cubist  paintings  whom  he  had  met  a  year 
previously.  Gribin  was  president  of  an  electronics  com- 
pany in  Los  Angeles,  Universal  Television.  We  persuaded 
Gribin  to  visit  Mefferd's  studio  and  see  the  model. 
Gribin  was  interested  and  subsequently  signed  a  Patron 
Sponsor  contract.  However,  even  with  the  company's 
support,  no  collaboration  between  Mefferd  and  a  Univer- 
sal technician  could  be  effected;  but  Mefferd  proceeded 
on  his  own  to  prepare  for  the  Expo  show. 

No  project  was  more  difficult  or  frustrating  to  imple- 
ment than  Mefferd's,  despite  the  fact  that  from  the  start, 
his  intentions  were  clear  and  his  ambitions  were  high  but 
not  unrealistic  from  either  a  technical  or  a  financial 
point  or  view.  Nor  was  this  a  reflection  of  the  artist's 
temperament,  for  he  is  eminently  likeable,  articulate  and 
modestly  business-like  in  his  approach.  Mefferd  wrote  to 
us  in  retrospect  evaluating  his  numerous  corporation 
contacts  and  commenting  on  the  A  &  T  program  in 
general: 

I  found  the  brass  incredibly  cautious,  slow  moving, 
and  stodgy,  for  people  who  had  their  power,  and 
middle  management,  while  a  little  more  lively,  were 
completely  afraid  to  do  anything  to  counter  the 
higher-ups,  so  they  might  as  well  have  not  existed.  I 
am  convinced  that  Monsanto  spent  at  least  a  thous- 
and dollars  just  to  decide  not  to  do  my  project.  Brass 


231 


A8eT 


would  not  act  without  first  having  lower  people  re- 
search and  investigate,  and  then  when  the  report  was 
favorable,  they  decided  that  there  wasn't  enough  time 
to  do  it  anyhow.  I  began  to  think  that  it  is  quite  an 
accomplishment  just  to  make  a  profit  with  so  much 
heavy  baggage  in  a  firm,  and  they  give  you  the  feeling 
that  they  could  clean  up  the  land  a  little,  lower  prices 
a  little,  do  most  everything  they  will  have  to  do  for 
the  good  of  the  country,  if  they  could  only  stream- 
line and  up-grade  management.  This  is  an  optimistic 
feeling,  I  suppose,  but  it  doesn't  help  much  if  you  are 
trying  to  work  with  a  company  as  it  exists  now  .... 

One  of  the  key  problems  in  working  with  companies 
seems  to  be  that  they  like  to  take  things  over,  to 
demand  that  things  be  approached  in  their  way.  Be- 
cause they  are  usually  nervous  over  costs,  insisting 
that  an  art  project  be  a  relatively  small  undertaking 
for  them,  and  then  deny  the  artist  his  own  unique 
way  of  doing  things,  it  is  no  wonder  that  the  projects 
seem  to  provide  so  little  challenge.  It  is  important 
that  the  initial  concept  was  a  challenging  one,  the 
concept  of  artists  in  residence.  Individual  flair  seems 
to  have  been  lost  somewhere  in  corporate  thinking, 
and  nobody  in  these  companies  seems  to  feel  much 
compulsion  to  do  anything  with  much  style.  Probably 
they  look  to  artists  for  that  sort  of  thing  now.  Maybe 
artists  will  be  the  last  of  the  big  time  spenders.  Com- 
panies seem  to  have  forgotten  about  the  value  of 
independent  operators.  Obviously  they  hire  people 
who  have  little  interest  in  independence,  and  nobody 
seems  to  remember  that  the  men  who  started  our 
giant  corporations  were  all  small  and  independent, 
more  like  artists  than  the  people  who  run  the  com- 
panies now.  They  don't  seem  to  understand  the  value 
of  injecting  this  kind  of  thinking  back  into  their 
ranks.  They  go  to  great  expense  to  hire  strong,  bright 
people,  and  then  do  their  best  to  isolate  them.  I  sin- 
cerely think  that  an  artist  would  be  a  great  encourage- 
ment to  the  individual  aspirations  of  a  company's 
employees,  and  of  great  long-range  value  to  a  com- 
pany. I'm  sure  that  in  the  midst  of  penny-pinching 
budget  talk,  A  &  T  people  were  tempted  into  the  old 
saying,  if  you  have  to  ask  the  price,  you  can't  afford 
it.  It  seems  that  just  as  money  stands  between  the 
artist  and  his  exploration  of  simple  technology,  it  also 
stands  between  the  companies  and  their  sharing  of  a 
more  sophisticated  technology.  If  things  are  going  to 
hang  up  on  costs,  the  potential  of  technological 
sophistication  is  meaningless.  Accordingly,  Universal 
Television  was  able  to  work  with  me,  and  hopefully 
with  the  Los  Angeles  installation  we  can  all  learn 
from  the  project,  even  though  their  technical  capabil- 
ities are  limited,  while  giants  like  Litton,  RCA,  Mon- 
santo and  the  like  were  not  able  to  work.  I  get  the 
feeling  that  much  of  the  energy  that  giant  corpora- 
tions expend  on  development  is  wasted  because  they 


don't  have  the  human  foresight  that  it  takes  to  utilize 
it.  Of  course  this  can  be  expanded  to  include  our 
growing  global  ecological  problems,  but  I  presume  the 
purpose  of  the  catalog  is  not  to  insult  industry,  and 
there  is  no  point  in  going  more  into  this  now. 

In  the  U.S.  Pavilion,  Mefferd's  space  comprised  the 
introductory  area  to  the  New  Arts  section,  occupying 
ninety-two  feet  of  running  wall  space  in  two  adjacent 
V-shaped  configurations.  One  hundred  twenty  identical 
flash  tube  units,  covered  by  two  foot  square  plexiglass 
sheets,  were  mounted  in  a  grid  pattern  on  four  walls  to  a 
height  of  six  feet;  the  walls  were  then  furred  out.  The 
flash  tubes  were  designed  by  the  artist,  adapted  from 
normal  photographic  flash  units;  they  are  450  volt 
xenon  lights  operating  off  normal  line  current.  Since  no 
one  working  in  the  U.S.  Pavilion  was  as  well-equipped  as 
the  artist  to  assemble  the  piece— a  delicate,  time-consum- 
ing chore— he  did  so  himself  with  the  sole  aid  of  his  girl 
friend;  the  process  took  three  weeks. 


232 


A  critical  factor  determining  the  success  of  the  work  was 
the  degree  to  which  ambient  light  could  be  reduced  in 
the  surrounding  space.  As  the  Mefferd  room  was  at  the 
entrance  of  the  New  Arts  area,  we  cut  down  the  size  of 
the  passageway  to  the  minimum  set  by  Japanese  safety 
codes.  It  was  expected  that  dense  crowds  of  visitors 
would  further  block  out  light  and  greatly  darken  the 
room,  but  this  could  not  be  precisely  calculated  before- 
hand. For  a  week  Mefferd  tested  various  rhythms  of 
firing.  This  was  the  creative  period  for  him,  all  that  had 
gone  before  being  merely  a  question  of  technical  prepar- 
ation. Mefferd's  intention  for  the  Expo  piece  (in  antici- 
pation of  the  massive  traffic)  was  to  produce  the 
strongest  possible  impact  in  a  short  time  span.  He  finally 


arrived  at  a  carefully  determined  system  which  he  felt 
was  direct  and  "formal"— especially  in  comparison  with 
his  Magic  Theatre  piece.  Each  V-shaped  group  of  lights 
had  a  separate  trigger  mechanism,  controlled  by  a  simple 
motorized  timing  device.  One  group  fired  at  fifteen 
second  intervals;  the  other  received  its  impulse  every 
thirteen  seconds.  The  total  frequency  of  flashes  was 
thereby  staggered  within  those  sequences;  at  times  both 
groups  exploded  simultaneously  with  subsequent  length- 
ening of  the  flash. 

On  March  15,  Expo  opened  and  swarms  of  people 
poured  through  the  Pavilion  in  a  dense  stream.  Mefferd's 
room  was  significantly  darkened  by  the  enormous 


233 


A&T 


crowds,  and  the  piece  worked— provided  that  the  specta- 
tors delayed  their  rush  through  the  room  for  two  or 
three  seconds.  Most  Japanese  would  not  pause,  however, 
and  they  experienced  the  work  only  as  a  minor  eye 
irritation— like  the  flash  from  a  nearby  camera.  For  those 
who  dallied  long  enough  to  receive  the  series  of  light 
discharges  the  experience  was  intense. 

The  first  burst  of  white  light  to  hit  a  spectator's  eyes  was 
the  most  startling  and  disorienting;  with  the  firing  of 
successive  charges,  one's  vision  was  subjected  to  a  series 
of  brilliant  color  mutations:  from  white,  the  light  shifted 
to  turquoise  and  to  blue;  then  from  rose  to  violet,  and 
finally  to  orange.  In  the  first  moment  one  may  be  fearful 
and  instinctively  shut  one's  eyes  from  the  light,  but  it 
has  been  observed  that  this  fear  vanishes  almost  instan- 
taneously, as  the  multitude  of  hues  explodes  in  one's 
visual  field.  Whatever  shapes  were  between  the  spectator 
and  the  walls  of  light— usually  other  people— interrupted 
this  pure  color  field,  resulting  in  frozen  chromatic  silho- 
uettes and  bifurcated  forms. 


These  two  elements  of  the  strobe  pieces— discontinu- 
ousness  and  intangibility— constitute  Mefferd's  esthetic 
concern,  rather  than  manipulation  of  an  optical  effect. 
Regarding  the  notion  of  discontinuousness,  Mefferd  has 
stated  in  a  previous  exhibition  catalog: 

Because  viewers  are  free  to  decide  how  long  they  will 
spend  with  a  work,  time  has  always  played  a  role  in 
the  perception  of  art.  Undoubtedly  artists  of  the  past 
have  given  thought  to  the  duration  of  involvement 
that  could  be  expected  of  their  audiences.  In  recent 
years,  however,  some  artists  have  taken  to  direct 
manipulation  of  time,  making  visual  change  the  basis 
of  their  art.  This  development  has  placed  new  impor- 
tance on  the  total  role  of  time.  If  the  visual  changes 


Mefferd  has  not  studied  these  optical  phenomena  from  a 
scientific  standpoint;  nor  is  he  particularly  interested  in 
the  various  theories  which  explain  them.  Indeed,  he  has 
said,  "Essentially,  I  believe  that  an  artist  is  still  an  artist 
and  that  his  growth  will  be  one  of  intuitive  decisions, 
utilizing  feedback  from  his  work,  with  occasional  flashes 
when  confusing  things  become  clear,  and  that  the  mater- 
ials he  works  with  are  still  secondary  to  traditional  art 
work  habits."  The  process  which  brought  Mefferd  into 
strobe  lighting  was  not  the  result  of  research  in  the  field 
of  optics,  but  (in  confirmation  of  the  above  statement) 
an  empirical  development,  based  on  intuitive  judgments 
of  his  past  work.  In  1967  he  had  executed  a  series  of 
small  light  boxes  using  fluorescent  lights  layered  be- 
tween plexiglass,  formica  or  chrome-plated  metals.  He 
began  to  evaluate  them,  in  terms  of  other  light  sculp- 
tures being  done  at  that  time,  and  in  terms  of  what  he 
really  wanted  from  light  as  a  sculptural  medium.  He  later 
explained. 

The  boxes  were  modulations  on  a  certain  cycle;  you 
could  enjoy  looking  at  them  for  some  time,  but 
you've  seen  the  content  in  a  very  short  time.  I  got 
more  and  more  interested  in  trying  to  make  works 
that  are  completely  discontinuous;  which  would  exist 
and  then  cease  their  existence.  I  was  also  interested  in 
making  works  that  didn't  have  any  physical  form- 
not  even  any  tangible  product.  What  you  saw  was 
completely  intangible.  I  got  into  using  flash  units  as  a 
way  of  making  an  interval  and  identifying  something, 
but  I  found  that  the  strobes  do  that,  but  not  very 
gracefully.  The  optical  quality,  which  is  very  strong, 
is  something  I  really  wasn't  looking  for  in  the  begin- 
ning, but  being  there,  it  is  the  strongest  thing  about 
them.  The  intangible  thing  was  not  something  I  ex- 
pected to  find  but  happened  onto. 


were  likened  to  the  plot  of  a  book,  the  total  viewing 
time  would  correspond  to  its  length.  Just  as  it  is 
unlikely  that  an  author  would  approach  a  full-length 
novel  in  the  same  way  he  would  write  a  short  story, 
likewise  it  is  unlikely  that  an  artist  who  is  interested 
in  time  control  to  design  similar  works  for  the  mu- 
seum viewer,  who  has  anywhere  from  several  minutes 
to  several  hours  with  a  work,  and  the  private  collector 
who  may  be  with  it  a  lifetime.  If  he  is  interested  in 
both  public  and  private  audiences  it  is  likely  that  the 
time  oriented  artist  will  develop  distinctly  different 
public  and  private  art  forms.* 

Thus  Mefferd's  A&T  projects  are  predicated  on  the  fact 
that  spectators  are  expected  to  remain  in  the  room  for 
certain  lengths  of  time  (obviously  it  will  be  longer  at  the 
Museum  than  at  Expo).  Based  on  that  expectation, 
Mefferd  arranges  the  timing  sequence  of  the  flash  units 
to  establish  the  pace  at  which  the  work  moves. 

It  is  the  quality  of  intangibleness  which  most  distinguish- 
es Mefferd  from  other  artists  dealing  with  light  as  a 
medium.  In  traditional  art  forms  which  utilize  electric 
light  as  a  sculptural  component,  the  form  of  the  work  is 
defined  primarily  in  terms  of  the  shape  of  the  light  con- 
tainer—the neon  tube  or  incandescent  bulb.  In  Mefferd's 

'Milwaukee  Art  Center,  l/l/hite  Lightning:  A  Public  Situation,  1969 


234 


Strobe  pieces,  the  experience  generated  by  the  light  is 
independent  of  a  tangible  light  source;  one  is  only  con- 
scious of  the  immediate  visual  experience  which  takes 
place  in  the  eye;  the  only  tangible  objects  are  the  sur- 
rounding persons  which  comprise  the  fragmented  image. 

The  piece  Mefferd  plans  for  the  Museum  exhibition  will 
contain  an  expanded  electronic  system,  and  the  installa- 
tion should  be  more  supportive  of  that  system  than  was 
possible  at  Expo.  The  room  itself  will  be  rectangular 
with  a  light-trap  entrance  way  painted  black  to  fully 
dark-adapt  the  viewer  before  he  enters  it.  Lights  will  be 
arranged  in  two  L-shaped  groups  with  entrance  and  exits 
between,  allowing  adequate  space  to  linger  in  the  en- 
vironment as  long  as  desired. 

The  most  significant  modification  will  be  with  the  strobe 
units  which  will  contain  not  one  flash  tube,  as  at  Expo, 
but  three;  the  two  additional  tubes  will  be  color  filtered 
and  programmed  to  fire  at  intermittent  intervals.  There 
will  be  the  deliberate,  rhythmic  overriding  pattern  of  the 
Expo  piece  with  its  repetitive  sequence  of  color  muta- 
tions; but  added  to  this  will  be  bursts  of  colored  lights, 
interrupting  that  set  pattern.  In  the  months  between 
Expo  and  the  Museum  show,  Mefferd  researched  these 
colored  lights;  he  had  units  specially  made  using  neon, 
argon  and  crypton  gases,  hoping  that  a  specific  gas  might 
produce  a  certain  dominant  color.  Since  there  was  no 
significant  result,  he  decided  not  to  go  to  the  expense  of 
having  these  made  but  to  use  filters  instead.  Program- 
ming this  new  network  of  flash  units,  with  its  complex 
array  of  possible  color  combinations,  will  be  the  major 
task  in  preparation  for  the  Museum  exhibition  and  will, 
at  last,  involve  a  collaboration  between  the  artist  and 
Universal  Television  technicians.  In  excuting  the  Mu- 
seum piece,  Mefferd's  intention  was  not  to  disregard  the 
Expo  piece,  but  to  elaborate  on  it  and  expand  the  basic 
idea.  In  a  letter  describing  the  new  work,  Mefferd  said, 
"I  favor  doing  it  as  richly  as  possible  as  I  want  an  or- 
ganic, luxurious  end  product,  rather  than  the  rather 
stark  affair  we  have  in  Osaka." 

Gail  R.  Scott 


itfeji.:;;. 


235 


A&T 


•*-iar'ji-th.je-^-  :■ 


Michael  Moore 

Born  Los  Angeles,  1942 
Resident  San  Francisco 


236 


On  May  17,  1969,  after  trying  to  contact  MT  in  New 
York  on  behalf  of  Pulsa,  Michael  Moore  sent  us  his  own 
project  proposal: 

This  project  is  concerned  with  the  activity  of  sunlight 
on  and  within  a  structure  in  the  landscape.  The 
sketch  (1]  fancifully  illustrates  an  application  of  this 
idea  in  the  area  of  Point  Dume,  although  any  location 
along  the  coastal  range  with  exposure  to  the  sea 
would  do  as  well.  Programming  equipment  will  be 
buried  beneath  the  floor  of  a  box  defined  by  four 
walls,  each  In  turn  comprised  of  four  nearly  trans- 
parent, continually  moving  panels  10'  x  10'  to  a  side, 
inconspicuously  contained  within  four  10'  x  15' 
metal  frames,  with  a  solar  battery  mounted  atop  a 
clear  plexiglass  pylon  in  the  center  as  an  on-site 
energy  source. 


lately  open  up  manifold  additional  possibilities. 

As  to  energy  conversion,  I  favor  the  solar  source  both 
practically  and  conceptually  and  understand  a  unit 
6'  X  6'  with  a  storage  battery  to  conserve  overflow  for 
sunless  periods  would  furnish  the  requisite  power. 

The  programming  package,  in  addition  to  governing 
the  behavior  of  the  panels,  must  also  incorporate 
timing  devices  for  Initiating  and  stopping  programs  as 
well  as  a  system  of  sensors  and  attendant  motors  to 
align  the  solar  batteries  with  the  sun.  These  and  all 
other  aspects  must  be  simple,  sophisticated,  and 
impervious  to  the  vicissitudes  of  humanity  and  nature 
for  a  period  of  at  least  several  months  without  main- 
tenance. 


The  realization  of  this  project  requires  research  in  the 
areas  of  plastics,  solar  energy  conversion,  program- 
ming, and  movement  of  the  panels.  Research  into 
plastics  will  require  experimentation  with  as  many 
materials  and  processes  as  possible  to  determine  a 
maximum  amount  of  information  on  light  transfer- 
ence properties  under  a  variety  of  conditions  before 
the  panels  can  be  constructed.  Lamination  and  etch- 
ing are  two  processes  that  would  be  good  starting 
points,  and  exp)osure  to  the  appropriate  research 
department  of  a  chemical  company  should  immed- 


Drlving  the  panels  In  accordance  with  the  program 
will  be  achieved  either  by  the  use  of  16  reversible  or 
32  non-reversible  electric  motors  of  the  necessary 
quality,  or,  more  hopefully,  electromagnetlcally; 
efficiency  and  availability  of  materials  are  the  crucial 
factors  In  this  particular  choice. 

The  end  realization  of  this  endeavor  should  be  anony- 
mous; Its  electronics  refined  to  the  point  of  invisi- 
bility; Its  origins  obscure.  It  will  rise  prominently  but 
unobtrusively,  a  hymn  to  the  sun  of  space. 


o 


O 


— •~-'-'^ 


A&T 

___ ^  ^^ 

I     - 


tJoU  oVevO, 


I 


S  j 


c.ro€.?>6&c.TiOfJ  or  WALL 


V 

a 


■/ 


■.■•        V*. 


i  '^ 


iz-M  ;,-. 


-  fr« 


(Y^e 


Robert  Morris 

Born  Kansas  City,  Missouri,  1931 
Resident,  New  York  City 


238 


Robert  Morris  was  one  of  the  first  artists  we  approached 
for  A  &  T,  and  our  efforts  to  effect  a  satisfactory  match 
have  continued  to  the  writing  of  this  catalog,  still  with- 
out success.  Throughout  most  of  this  two  year  period, 
Morris  had  a  specific  project  in  mind;  to  work— hope- 
fully in  an  aerospace  firm— with  environmental  control 
systems.  In  September  1968  he  sent  the  following  pro- 
posal: 

An  environmental  situation  involving  temperature 
control  systems  and  utilizing  the  devices  themselves 
which  generate  heat  and  cold.  What  is  envisioned  is 
not  an  entire  room  which  gets  hot,  cooler,  etc.,  but 
rather  specific  areas  controlled  by  specific  units. 
Certain  amplification  of  sound  from  the  devices  pro- 
ducing temperature  changes  is  also  being  considered, 
but  the  primary  concern  is  to  explore  local  changes  of 
temperature  within  an  extended  spatial  situation. 

In  attempting  to  locate  a  company  working  with  temper- 
ature control,  we  contacted  Litton  Industries.  Roy  Ash, 
President  of  Litton,  had  requested,  at  the  time  the  con- 
tract was  signed,  that  the  collaboration  take  place  at 
Litton's  Data  Systems  Division.  We  called  Ralph  Oliver, 
our  public  relations  contact  at  Data  Systems.  We  de- 
scribed the  artist's  field  of  interest,  and  Oliver  eagerly 
and  unequivocally  assured  us  that  Litton  could  "do 
anything"  along  that  line.  Encouraged  by  his  willingness 
and  optimism,  we  arranged  to  visit  the  facility  with 
Morris  on  October  29. 

On  this  occasion,  we  were  first  conducted  into  a  confer- 
ence room  for  an  "S.O.B."  (Standard  Overview  Briefing) 
of  Litton  Industries,  consisting  of  a  movie  and  a  flipcard 
chart  talk  on  the  corporate  structure.  Oliver  then  took 
us  through  three  major  areas  of  the  facility— the  com- 
mand and  control  display  center  for  live  radar  testing, 
environmental  testing  laboratories  and  a  microcircuitry 
manufacturing  plant.  Data  systems  only  works  with 
temperature  control  consisting  of  tiny  humidity  and 
heat-cold  chambers  used  to  test  the  endurance  of  micro- 
circuits  and  other  small  electronic  parts. 

Morris  maintained  that  such  machines,  having  very 
limited  capability  in  scale  and  versatility,  would  be  of  no 
help,  and  that  he  wanted  to  work  in  a  department  where 
research  was  being  conducted  in  environmental  (meaning 
on  a  scale  relative  to  people,  not  computer  parts)  control 
systems;  in  reply  the  Litton  management  explained  that 
all  research  at  Data  Systems  was  applied  to  specific 
contracts,  usually  military,  and  that  no  general  research 
went  on  at  any  level.  Oliver,  however,  assured  us  that 
there  was  another  area  of  the  division  we  had  not  yet 
seen  that  was  working  with  air  conditioning  systems. 
The  following  day  we  returned  to  Data  Systems  to  inves- 
tigate this  section,  which  contained  a  fabrication  shop 
for  aluminum  quonset  huts,  housing  tactical  computer 
equipment  called,  in  Data  Systems'  abbreviation  system. 


IFF  (Identification  of  Friend  or  Foe).  But  it  was  a  futile 
trip  because  the  air  conditioning  "system"  turned  out  to 
be  merely  self-contained  units  acquired  outside  Litton. 
We  were  to  discover  in  the  coming  months  that  in  being 
restricted  to  "DSD,"  where  the  military  involvement  of 
Litton  was  concentrated  and  where  there  prevailed  a 
misconception  about  the  nature  of  an  A  &  T  collabor- 
ation, our  efforts  to  find  an  artist  to  work  at  this  giant 
firm  with  its  diverse  potential  would  be  repeatedly 
frustrated. 

In  the  hope  that  Morris  would  be  stimulated  by  other 
types  of  technological  resources,  and  perhaps  revise  his 
proposal,  Gail  Scott  took  him  to  Ampex  Corporation  in 
Redwood  City.  They  met  with  Dr.  Charles  Spitzer,  and 
since  it  was  the  first  visit  by  anyone  from  our  Museum 
staff,  they  had  a  thorough  briefing  and  tour.  Although 
Morris  found  the  tour  interesting,  he  persisted  in  his 
desire  to  carry  out  the  original  thermal  project. 

After  an  abortive  effort  to  interest  Philco-Ford  in 
Morris'  proposal,  we  toured  Lear  Siegler,  Inc.,  an  aircraft 
corporation  recently  contracted  to  A  &  T  as  a  Patron 
Sponsor.  Two  particular  divisions  seemed  capable  of 
implementing  Morris'  project:  the  Holly  Division,  a 
fabrication  plant  for  home  and  trailer  air  conditioners; 
and  the  Hokanson  Division,  producing  technically  exact- 
ing systems  for  aircraft  missiles.  Both  divisions  were 
interested  in  the  artist's  scheme,  and  both  claimed  to  be 
able  to  handle  "any  requirement."  That  promise  was 
becoming  familiar,  but  we  were  anxious  to  have  Morris 
see  both  facilities  first  hand.  We  mailed  him  brochures. 


239 


A&T 


and  he  responded  directly  with  a  letter  on  March  3: 
Hokanson's  heaters  and  coolers  look  sweet.  Can 
hardly  wait  to  get  my  hands  on  one  of  those  'Male, 
female  cap  duct  coupling— MS  33562'  or  some  skid 
mounted  water  chillers  ....  Then  there's  the  whole 
world  of  'Strongback  mounted  electric  driven  (Rail 
Mobility  Concept)  air  conditioner  that  operates 
normally  when  strongback  is  in  horizontal  or  vertical 
position  or  during  transition  for  missile  erection.' 
Each  one  sounds  better  than  the  next.  I  just  had  to 
close  the  book  when  I  got  to  a  device  that  supplies 
'automatic  head  pressure  control.'  Zowie  bang  snort 
lemme  at  em. 

Pretty  big,  hulking  devices  all  of  these  toys.  Want  to 
ask  only  one  thing:  when  the  show  that  eventuates 
from  all  the  collaboration  takes  place  does  it  have  to 
be  inside?  Because  I  want  to  do  it  outside.  Want  to 
bury  all  this  technology  right  in  the  ground  and  have 
nothing  there  but  a  little  more  weather  than  was 
there  in  the  first  place— what  miniature  golf  did  for 
the  game  this  piece  might  do  for  the  National  Parks. 

Due  to  other  commitments,  Morris  couldn't  begin  work 
until  July  1 ,  but  we  felt  assured  that  the  Lear  Siegler 
collaboration  would  develop  fruitfully.  We  therefore 
reserved  that  company  for  several  months  until  Morris 
arrived.  In  June  he  sent  a  more  detailed  description  of 
the  thermal  project: 

Site:  Want  to  make  the  installation  outside  in  unin- 
habited land,  any  type  of  landscape,  about  one  square 
mile  to  work  within. 

Preliminary  Studies:  Want  to  make  and  record  some 
ecological  processes  in  the  site  area— changes  of  tem- 
perature, rainfall,  animal  food  chains,  etc.  Want  to 
start  this  before  installation  of  machinery. 

Technology:  Installation  of  several  air  conditioners 
and  heaters  underground.  Outputs  above  ground, 
interface  between  technology  and  nature  disguised 
with  fiberglass  rocks,  etc  .  .  .  frigid  rocks,  hot  wind 
coming  out  of  a  tree  perhaps .  .  .  etc. 

Additional  Records:  Would  like  to  make  two  films 
shot  from  helicopter  traversing  entire  area  at  constant 
height.  One  film  in  color,  one  in  infra-red  (after  ma- 
chine installation).  Have  ideas  for  a  particular  way  of 
presenting  these  films  in  the  museum  ...  a  continu- 
ous showing.  I'm  at  present  working  on  a  similar  film 
for  Kepes  for  Brazil. 

On  July  3  GS  took  Morris  to  the  two  LSI  divisions, 
guided  by  George  Moak  from  the  general  administrative 
offices.  An  account  of  that  tour  was  recorded  in  the 
following  memo: 

GS  went  with  Bob  Morris  for  initial  tour  of  two  di- 


visions of  Lear-Siegler.  First  saw  the  Holly  Division 
which  manufactures  residential  heaters  and  air  condi- 
tioners, but  the  capacity  of  these  is  not  really  suf- 
ficient for  Bob's  needs.  Then  went  to  the  Hokanson 
Division  (Santa  Ana)  where  they  manufacture  large 
air  conditioners  for  industrial  purposes.  These  will  be 
much  more  suitable  for  Bob's  project,  and  he  is  confi- 
dent that  they  will  have  all  the  equipment  he'll  need. 
We  met  with  R.W.  Rowlin  (manager  of  Industrial 
Relations  at  this  plant)  who  will  be  one  of  the  main 
contacts  and  will  introduce  Bob  to  engineers.  Bob 
will  study  their  catalogs  in  the  next  two  days,  then 
contact  Rowlin  to  begin  work.  George  Moak  made  it 
clear  that  it  was  the  division's  responsibility  to  see 
through  the  project  as  far  as  they  can.  If  we  need 
approval  for  funds  we  should  first  contact  Moak  who 
seems  fairly  open  towards  Bob  and  the  project  in 
general. 

For  consideration: 

(1 )  Bob  wants  a  plot  of  land  on  which  to  do  the 
project.  He  doesn't  want  to  use  the  Museum's  park; 
wants  it  to  be  near  some  foothills,  on  land  which  is 
not  being  used.  He  needs  about  14  square  mile. 

(2)  He  will  need  to  rent  a  helicopter  and  camera 
equipment  to  make  the  infrared  and  color  films  of 
the  site. 

Morris  rented  a  house  in  Balboa,  not  far  from  the  Hok- 
anson Division  where  he  went  several  times,  trying  to 
discover  some  engineer  or  scientist  who  might  be  doing 
research  in  environmental  controls  or  the  conductivity 
of  metals  and  other  structural  materials,  or  at  least  some- 
one interested,  at  a  theoretical  level,  in  his  concept.  But 
unfortunately,  research  at  Hokanson  was  geared  primari- 
ly toward  quality  control  of  specific  products;  as  at 
Litton,  there  was  no  general  R&D  department.  After 
three  weeks,  Morris  finally  found  someone,  William  S. 
McKinney,  Director  of  Engineers,  who  expressed  interest 
in  the  proposal. 

Meanwhile,  we  had  made  inquiries  and  finally  located  a 
piece  of  land  on  which  to  install  the  work— one  square 
mile  of  a  cattle  ranch  in  Irvine,  near  Balboa,  owned  by 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  O'Neill,  who  are  art  collectors. 

Morris  had  to  leave  for  Europe  in  July  and  couldn't 
return  until  December  to  devote  a  long  period  of  time  to 
the  project.  He  promised,  however,  to  send  William 
McKinney  drawings,  plans  and  diagrams  of  the  necessary 
equipment,  as  well  as  a  map  of  the  site  on  the  O'Neill 
ranch. 

Morris  wrote  us  on  September  16, 

The  next  step  that  has  to  be  taken  on  the  part  of 

technology  is  the  following: 

How  to  get  five  or  six  heat  sources,  as  varied  as  pos- 


Bruce  Nauman 

Born  Fort  Wayne,  Indiana,  1941 

Resident  Pasadena 


240 


sible,  into  a  natural  environment  and  make  them 
function  and  also  conceal  them. 

How  to  get  five  or  six  cooling  sources,  as  varied  as 
possible,  into  a  natural  environment  and  make  them 
function  and  also  conceal  them. 

How  to  power  these  dozen  devices,  how  to  reduce  the 
noise  to  almost  zero,  how  to  switch  them  off  and  on. 

These  are  essentially  the  problems  I  presented  to  the 
several  engineers  I  met  out  there.  I  realized  that  some 
authority  had  to  come  from  the  top  for  them  to 
actually  put  in  some  time  and  solve  the  above  prob- 
lems. That  is  where  we  still  are  with  the  project— i.e., 
the  same  question  exists:  Will  LSI  provide  the  equip- 
ment, will  the  engineers  solve  the  problem? 

We  called  McKinney  to  forward  Morris'  message  but 
were  told  that  he  was  "unavailable";  successive  attempts 
found  him  out  of  town  or  similarly  unreachable.  Mysti- 
fied by  this  response  we  contacted  George  Moak  in  the 
head  office.  Several  days  later  he  called  back  to  say  that 
LSI  wished  to  be  dropped  from  Patron  Sponsor  partici- 
pation, adding  that  McKinney  had  been  assigned  to  some 
high  priority  engineering  project  and  would  not  be  able 
to  assist  the  artist.  He  frankly  admitted  that  there  was 
no  one  else  with  sufficient  "imagination"  to  carry  on  the 
collaboration.  Obviously  the  project  was  verging  on 
collapse,  so  we  asked  Moak  to  come  to  the  Museum.  At 
this  meeting,  it  became  apparent  that  LSI's  main  con- 
cern was  the  estimated  costs  for  the  project— including 
rental  of  a  helicoptor,  cameras,  film,  installation  of  the 
equipment,  etc.  Further  negotiations  proved  futile,  and 
the  collaboration  ended  precipitously. 

In  May  of  1970,  after  Dan  Flavin  had  ceased  to  work  at 
General  Electric,  the  company  pressed  us  to  find  another 
artist;  they  were  eager  for  concrete  results  from  their 
participation  in  A  &  T.  We  contacted  Morris  to  see  if  he 
was  still  interested  in  doing  something  in  the  program. 
He  replied  by  suggesting  that  he  and  Craig  Kauffman 
might  tour  G.E.'s  Nela  Park  Laboratories  in  Ohio,  and 
possibly  collaborate  on  a  project,  but  by  October,  1970, 
when  they  were  free  to  visit  the  company,  G.E.  main- 
tained that  they  were  no  longer  able  to  commit  to  an 
extensive  collaboration. 

Gail  R.  Scott 


In  March,  1968,  after  hearing  about  A  &  T  from  Ed 
Kienholz,  Bruce  Nauman  wrote  to  us  describing  his 
interest  in  holograms: 

I  have  made  photographs  and  film  loops  of  myself 
making  faces  and  will  do  a  set  of  3-D  pictures  using 
the  plastic  lens  material  which  I  imagine  you  have 
seen  as  soon  as  Leo  Castelli  has  enough  money  for  an 
edition. 

I  would  like  also  to  do  a  similar  set  of  holograms.  I 
talked  with  TRW  in  Los  Angeles  and  while  they  make 
a  lot  of  the  equipment  and  do  a  lot  of  the  experimen- 
ting, they  won't  do  outside  work.  They  gave  me 
Conductron  in  Michigan  and  they  (Conductron)  are 
supposed  to  make  and  reproduce  holograms  that  can 
be  viewed  in  white  light  so  there  is  apparently  not 
much  display  problem. 

Basically  what  Nauman  wanted  to  do  at  this  point  and 
when  we  later  talked  to  him  was  to  make  holograms  not 
only  of  his  face,  but  also  a  set  large  enough  to  depict  his 
entire  body.  He  was  able  to  accomplish  both  these  goals 
without  assistance  from  the  Art  and  Technology  pro- 
gram. 


Claes  Oldenburg 

Born  Stockholm,  1929 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


Walt  Disney  Productions  is  a  corporation  whose  partici- 
pation we  hoped  from  the  outset  of  A  &  T  to  enlist, 
because  of  their  enormous  production  capacity  and  their 
sophisticated  research  into  problems  of  visual  illusion. 
No  more  strenuous  attempt  to  contract  any  company 
was  made  than  our  effort  with  Disney,  or  its  partner 
firm,  WED  Enterprises.  In  January,  1968,  Missy  Chand- 
ler made  the  first  of  numerous  calls  to  Roy  O.  Disney, 
Sr.  in  an  attempt  to  arrange  a  meeting  with  MT  and  him. 
Eight  months  after  that  initial  call,  a  meeting  was  finally 
arranged  in  Glendale  between  MT,  Missy  Chandler,  Irena 
Shapira,  and  WED's  Neal  E.  McClure,  Secretary  (Legal 
Counsellor)  and  Richard  F.  Irvine,  Executive  Vice-Presi- 
dent. McClure  and  Irvine  were  not  terribly  interested  in 
A&T,  but  neither  were  they  eager  to  offend  Mrs. 
Chandler,  and  they  promised  to  consider  the  idea  in 
further  meetings  with  their  Head  of  Design  and  Mr. 
Disney.  On  October  2,  McClure  wrote. 
My  Dear  Mrs.  Chandler: 

After  checking  further  both  here  at  WED  and  at  the 
Studio,  we  must  advise  you  that  we  are  not  in  a  po- 
sition to  participate  in  your  imaginative  'Art  and 
Technology'  plan. 

As  discussed  with  you  last  Thursday,  there  are  several 
reasons  persuading  against  our  participation,  the  two 
most  cogent  being  our  extreme  work  pressure  to 
complete  Walt  Disney  World  in  Florida,  and  the  high- 
ly confidential  nature  of  much  of  the  work  per- 
formed here  at  WED. 


MT  immdiately  called  Claes  Oldenburg  and  went  to  see 
him.  Oldenburg  had  been  approached  by  us  some  time 
previously,  but  had  not  responded  favorably  to  our 
invitation,  primarily  because  there  was  no  contracted 
corporation  relevant  to  his  needs  at  the  time,  but  also 
because  of  doubts  he  had  about  working  with  company 
people,  engineers  and  administrators.  He  was  skeptical 
about  the  advantages  industry  could  provide  in  execu- 
ting his  work,  and  about  the  necessity  for  his  being  at  a 
company  in  person:  "As  far  as  I'm  concerned,"  he  said 
to  the  New  York  Times,  "the  Yellow  Pages  provide 
enough  technology  for  me."  From  our  point  of  view, 
however,  to  have  an  artist  of  Oldenburg's  importance 
and  prestige  working  under  the  project  was  critical  at 
this  early  moment  in  the  development  of  A  &  T.  Such  a 
collaboration  as  that  between  Oldenburg  and  Disney 
would,  we  knew,  lend  concreteness  to  the  public  concep- 
tion of  the  program,  which  was  at  that  time  rather 
vague.  It  would  also,  we  felt,  prompt  participation  by 
other  corporations  and  strengthen  the  preliminary  inter- 
est we  were  encountering  in  discussions  with  other 
artists.  (We  made  an  effort  to  involve  Dubuffet  at 
around  this  time  for  similar  reasons.)  We  persuaded 
Oldenburg  to  come  to  Los  Angeles  and  tour  Disney's 
facilities.  He  came  on  November  17,  1968,  and  was 
shown  various  workshops  and  research  areas  in  Glendale 
and  several  rides  at  Disneyland  by  John  Hench. 


Despite  this  letter,  MT  urged  Missy  to  continue  arguing 
our  case,  and  she  succeeded  in  arranging  a  second  meet- 
ing at  Disney  on  October  31  with  the  company's  Head 
of  Design,  John  Hench  and  Executive  Vice-President,  E. 
Cardon  Walker.  MT  was  in  New  York  on  A  &  T  business 
at  the  time  of  this  meeting,  and  received  a  phone  call 
from  the  Museum,  informing  him  that  WED  had  com- 
mitted to  the  program  as  a  Patron  Sponsor.  Disney's 
legal  counsellor  Neal  McClure  later  requested  and  ob- 
tained an  interesting  alteration  in  the  contract— one  of 
tenor,  rather  than  substantive  legal  import— by  "reserv- 
ing the  right  to  the  Company  to  disapprove  any  artist  or 
project." 


242 


Hench  and  Oldenburg  were  at  first  wary  of  each  other, 
and  MT  was  put  in  the  position  of  attempting  to  explain 
one  to  the  other  and  somehow  alleviate  the  sense  of 
mutual  suspicion.  By  the  time  Oldenburg  left,  he  was 
convinced  that  Disney  could  be  of  enormous  benefit  to 
him,*  and  even  displayed  a  degree  of  excitement  about 
certain  plans  he  was  already  envisioning.  He  said  he 
would  draft  a  schedule  for  visits  to  Disney  throughout 
the  coming  year.  Oldenburg  remained  cautious,  however, 
as  he  indicated  in  a  letter  to  MT  on  December  14,  1968: 
"John  Hench 's  quote  in  the  Glueck  article**  certainly 
makes  me  pause.  I  wonder  to  what  extent  he  will  assume 
the  position  of  spokesman  for  what  might  be  done.  The 
trouble  with  WED  is  that  they  are  ideologically  involved 
as  well  as  technologically,  as  we  know."t  Nevertheless, 
he  then  sent  John  Hench  and  us  a  proposed  schedule: 

Set  up  housing  March  2—16  2  weeks 

Describe  project 


Main  work  on  project     May 


4'/2  weeks 


Additional  work  on        June  29— July  12       2  weeks 
project  (if  necessary) 


Additional  work  on 
project 


Nov.  or  Dec. 
(or  Feb.  '70 


3  weeks 

(if  necessary) 


Disney  was  still  worried.  Neal  McClure  called  Betty 
Asher  on  January  30,  and  she  reported  this  conversation 
in  a  memo  to  MT: 

A  Mr.  McClure  called  from  WED  Enterprises.  They 
would  like  to  see  a  proposal  of  just  what  Claes  in- 
tends doing  at  Disney.  Also,  they  have  not  had  the 
opportunity  of  approving  the  artist  or  the  project  as 
per  the  contract.  They  would  like  that  opportunity. 

He  would  like  to  have  you  call  Mr.  Hench.  They  are 
afraid  they  might  get  a  Kienholz-type  product  and, 
after  all  they  are  a  family  directed-operation. 

I  assured  him  that  "set  up  housing'  just  meant  that 
Claes  was  planning  on  taking  some  time  to  find  his 
own  digs  convenient  to  their  facility.  He  was  afraid 
that  he  expected  them  to  provide  housing  there. 


*Much  later,  Oldenburg  told  Max  Kozloff  that  he  was  fascinated 
with  the  idea  of  working  at  Disney  because  he  "wanted  to  know 
what  people  who  have  been  making  animals  without  genitalia  for 
thirty  years  are  lil<e. " 

**Grace  Glueck,  "Los  Angeles  Museum  Plays  Matchmaker," 
New  York  Times,  April  17,  1969. 

tin  another  letter  written  by  Oldenburg  at  this  time,  but  not 
mailed,  he  said,   "The  name  of  my  piece  for  Disney,  Maurice,  will 
be  Leaves  of  Grass.  Disneyland  must  have  its  Whitman  section 
full  of  homosexual  streetcar  conductors." 


On  February  21  Claes  wrote  John  Hench: 

I  will  be  detained  on  projects  in  NYC  until  about  the 
first  of  May— I  hope  to  spend  the  whole  month  of 
May  on  the  coast.  At  that  time  I  hope  to  have  ob- 
tained residence  facilities  in  the  Balboa  area,  in  order 
to  commute  to  the  Disneyland  workshops.  My  prefer- 
ence is  to  have  a  basic  studio  at  Disneyland  and  from 
there  visit,  whenever  necessary,  the  Glendale  work- 
shop. At  Disneyland,  I'll  need  an  office  space  to  draw 
in  and  to  make  some  small  models  and  to  write  on 
my  typewriter— a  place  that  is  relatively  private  and 
quiet.  It  doesn't  have  to  be  large. 

After  getting  settled  I  would  expect  to  continue 
exploring  the  facilities  for  a  few  more  days  and  then 
to  retire  if  that's  the  word  to  formulate  a  project  on 
the  basis  of  and  arising  out  of  what  I've  seen.  I  want 
to  stress  this  approach— that  I  won't  be  arriving  with  a 
project  ready  to  go  under  my  arm.  I  will  bring  a  note- 
book of  possibilities  and  some  preconceptions  .  .  .  but 
I  can't  say  in  advance  what  area  of  the  many  offered 
by  WED  workshops  will  be  drawn  upon. 

If  you  bear  with  me,  by  the  end  of  May,  something 
definite  should  be  in  the  works.  If  it  is,  I'll  be  return- 
ing in  the  summer  and  late  fall  to  complete  it,  and  in 
the  meantime  maybe  can  direct  it  from  NYC.  Maybe 
it  will  go  by  itself  the  times  I'm  not  there. 

On  May  1,  Oldenburg  settled  into  a  motel  near  the 
Disney  plant  in  Glendale.  He  worked  daily  throughout 
the  month.  This  was  a  productive  time,  and  visitors  to 
his  workroom  at  WED  found  a  fertile  body  of  proposals 
and  models  being  developed  by  Oldenburg.  [1]  One 
writer  was  impressed  by  these  plans  sufficiently  to  plan  a 
book  on  "Oldenburg  in  Disneyland."  As  Claes  prepared 
to  leave  at  the  end  of  May  he  drew  up  two  general  pro- 
jects for  consideration  by  WED,  which  included  many 
separate  sections  and  models  he  had  been  preparing. 
He  referred  to  one  project  as  a  Theatre  of  Objects  or 
Oldenburg's  Ride.  The  other  was  the  Giant  Icebag.  He 
explained. 

The  practical  way  to  approach  working  with  any 
corporation  or  any  material  or  technique  supplier  is 
to  see  where  their  services  fit  in  with  your  needs.  And 
first  of  all  I  had  to  ask  myself  what  is  it  in  my  work 
that  requires  technological  assistance  on  the  scale  that 
this  program  will  give  me.  Most  of  the  time  I  don't 
use  technology  very  much.  There  was  a  class  of  ob- 
jects that  had  been  contemplated  and  suggested  in 
'65,  and  these  were  all  of  a  kinetic  sort— they  moved 
or  they  broke  or  they  reconstituted  themselves,  or 
they  peeled  themselves— they  went  through  simple 
motions.  And  so  knowing  that  I  was  going  to  get  into 
a  technological  program,  I  went  through  all  my  notes 
and  I  selected  those  things  which  seemed  to  fit  the 
program,  and  those  are  the  notes  that  I  brought  out 
with  me,  such  as  the  one  with  the  jello  mold  [2] , 


243 


A&T 


^ 


'i:p_ 


V 


244 


which  dates  from  1965.  All  of  those  ideas  with  break- 
ing things  and  changing  things  are  all  of  my  note- 
books from  1965.  When  I  arrived  at  Disney,  I  looked 
around  for  the  service  that  would  fit  me,  and  they 
were  then  engaged  in  preparing  the  haunted  house 
which  opened  later.  But  in  the  haunted  house  they 
had  all  these  effects  where  things  were  metamor- 
phosing and  they  were  using  mirrors  and  stuff,  so  I 
went  to  the  library  and  I  got  books  on  simple  magic 
and  also  books  on  simple  mechanics.  I  tried  to  fit  my 
thoughts  about  what  I  needed  in  technology  into 
what  services  they  provided  at  that  moment. 
Oldenburg's  Ride  was  to  be  a  large  series  of  magical, 
mechanical  sculptures,  enclosed  in  an  amphitheatre  of 
the  artist's  design.  [3,  on  the  right]  By  May  23,  when 
MT  made  his  last  visit  to  Oldenburg's  workroom  at 
Disney,  Claes  was  considering  designs  of  the  following 
component  sculptures  for  the  theatre: 

a  giant  toothpaste  tube  [3,  center) ,  which  rises  and 
falls,  and  is  raised  by  the  paste 

a  colossal  rising  and  falling  screw  which  releases  oil  at 
its  top 

a  large  object,  as  a  car  or  piano,  made  in  soft  material, 
mounted  on  a  machine  that  would  twist,  compress 
and  change  its  shape  (the  machine  was  suggested  by 
Disney's  materials-testing  device) 


a  large  undulating  green  jello  mold  [2] ,  with  fruits 
suspended  inside 

a  bowl  of  cornflakes  and  banana  slices  falling  from  an 
inverted  disk  [4] 

a  cup  which  would  break  and  then  reconstitute  itself 

a  plate,  on  which  eggs  are  cracked,  thrown,  scrambled 
and  then  reconstituted 

a  pie  case,  in  which  pies  would  gradually  disappear  as 
if  they  were  being  eaten,  and  then  be  reassembled 

a  'chocolate  earthquake'  made  of  giant  chocolate 
bars,  which  would  shift  precariously,  crack  open,  and 
settle  back  (suggested  by  a  magazine  advertisement 
and  the  then  current  earthquake  scare  in  California) 
[1,5,  6— a  small  sculpture  made  of  broken  Hershey 


7:.?!jii:rprPTd'^srsrt£.- 


V  o 


246 


247 


A&T 


bars  and  sealed  with  resin,  7— an  "earthquake  seg- 
ment" of  cardboard  and  fabric] 

Several  metamorphic  pieces,  in  which  metamorphosis 
would  actually  occur,  including  a  banana  transformed 
into  a  fan  [Claes  labeled  it  a  "fanana":  in  this  connec- 
tion Oldenburg  recalls  Jim  Dine's  painting.  The  Plant 
Becomes  a  Fan,  of  1 961  -63] . 


states  and  to  various  superstitions  ("If  you  encounter  a 
situation  in  real  life  which  has  occurred  to  you  before, 
you  do  it").  They  also  call  to  mind  the  curious  sense  of 
denial,  or  temporal  negation,  suggested  by  film  footage 
when  it  is  run  backward.  Oldenburg's  illusionist  propo- 
sals comment  serio-comically  on  American  inclinations 
toward  escapism  and  unfounded  optimism— the  "happy- 
ending"  syndrome. 


Common  to  all  these  proposals  were  phenomena  of 
disintegration,  transmogrification,  and  reconstitution. 
Oldenburg  speaks  eloquently  of  these  projected  works  as 
having  to  do  with  "the  tragedy  of  brokenness"  and  the 
denial  of  that  tragedy— "As  in  a  dream,"  he  said,  "where 
your  teeth  fall  out,  but  on  awakening  you  find  out  they 
didn't."  These  works  relate  strongly  to  both  dream 


These  sculpture  designs  were  to  be  developed,  from  their 
state  as  sketches  and  collages,  into  working  models  by 
Disney  craftsmen  and  model  builders.  Oldenburg  was 
encouraged  by  the  company  to  make  as  many  proposals 
as  he  liked,  and  he  was  assured  that  all  his  plans  for 
illusionist  works  In  the  Theatre  of  Objects  were  well 
within  the  capabilities  of  Disney's  technology. 


248 


Oldenburg's  other  proposed  work,  the  Giant  Icebag,  had 
been  developed  to  the  point  where  an  engineered  model 
could  be  constructed.  (8,  9,  10]  He  was  eager  to  concen- 
trate on  a  single  work  that  could  be  available  for  Expo 
70.  Claes  drew  up  the  following  descriptions  for  Disney 
model  makers  before  he  left,  expecting  to  return  in 
August: 

ICEBAG-skin 

The  'bag'  is  made  up  of  pleat  sections,  attached  at  the 
bottoms  to  a  circular  frame  in  some  way  that  permits 
easy  removal.  It  will  probably  be  necessary  to  rein- 
force the  sections  or  attach  some  sort  of  frame  to  the 


collar.  Each  pleat  may  be  cast  separately  and  joined 
to  the  other  by  very  large  and  concealed  zippers  for 
easy  transport.  In  the  process  of  assembly,  the  pleats 
would  be  laid  out  around  the  frame  and  machinery 
supporting  the  'cap'  like  a  giant  flower,  to  be  brought 
up  and  together  one  by  one. 

The  material  may  be  represented  by  sewn  vinyl  in  the 
working  model.  A  pink  vinyl  which  I  have  purchased 
is  stored  at  Gemini  and  can  be  obtained  through 
Tuchman  or  the  IVIuseum. 


249 


A&T 


fT^'^'X'T  *'TT' 


JUWi^'^a  ^/i) 


M 


10 


In  the  full-size  piece,  this  material  should  be  fairly 
thick,  so  that  the  pleats  maintain  their  shape  and  the 
movement  of  the  material  communicates  resistance  to 
the  turning  motion,  but  it  should  be  capable  of  devel- 
oping folds.  The  folds  may  be  predetermined. 

The  material  should  take  color,  be  opaque,  be  glossy. 
Most  desirable  would  be  if  the  material  contained  the 
color.  The  color  is  roughly  the  salmon-pink  indicated 
on  the  models. 

The  material  should  be  as  durable  as  possible,  since 
this  is  an  outdoor  piece,  but  the  part  construction 
allows  for  replacements. 


ICEBAG-topof 'cap' 

The  top  of  the  'cap'  is  a  reflecting  disk  eight  to  nine 
feet  in  diameter.  A  night  version  is  conceivable— the 
surface  which  reflects  the  sun  and  sky  by  day  could 
be  made  to  show  illumination  from  the  interior  at 
night— could  it?  The  sculpture  could  thus  have  a  day 
and  night  phase.  A  weak  illumination,  moon-like. 


250 


ICEBAG-Mechanical  [11] 

This  cross-section  of  the  Icebag  attempts  to  indicate 

the  type  of  movement  desired. 

The  'cap'  1 )  turns  2)  telescopes  or  spirals  up  and 
down  3)  tilts.  The  movement  may  be  compared  to 
that  of  a  searchlight  at  a  Hollywood  opening. 

As  the  'cap'  moves,  it  should  stretch  or  create  folds  In 
the  'bag'  which  is  to  be  made  of  flexible  material.  It 
will  be  necessary  to  separate  the  'bag'  collar  from  the 
'cap'  to  permit  rotation  continuously  in  one  direc- 
tion, but  if  this  is  unfeasible,  the  movement  could  be 
a  'winding'  and  'unwinding.' 

The  movement  should  be  very  slow.  A  model  should 
provide  the  means  for  testing  different  rates  of 
motion. 

It  would  be  desirable  for  the  progress  of  the  project 
to  have  a  working  model  of  this  machine  prepared  in 
my  absence  (I  will  return  in  early  August).  The  model 
should  be  about  eighteen  inches  high  at  furthest 
extension— or  whatever  scale  serves  the  purpose. 

When  Oldenburg  left  Disney,  he  left  behind  him  scores 
of  drawings  and  diagrams,  and  several  models  along  with 
instructions,  in  his  workroom.  He  departed  feeling 
pleased  with  the  prospects  for  his  future  collaboration, 
as  did  we,  and  as  we  understood  did  Disney.  Two  weeks 
later  John  Hench  called  MT  and  asked  him  and  iVIuseum 
Director  Kenneth  Donahue  to  visit  Disney  and  deliver  an 
"official"  opinion  of  the  work  before  the  company 
proceeded  to  construct  models  for  Claes.  After  this  visit 
took  place,  MT  wrote  Hench  on  June  23, 

Following  our  visit  with  you  last  Friday,  I  want  to 
tell  you  how  extremely  delighted  we  are  with  the 
projects  Claes  Oldenburg  has  conceived  to  be  carried 
out  with  WED.  I  feel  that  both  the  Icebag  and  Olden- 
burg's Ride  (the  Theatre  of  Objects)  will  most  de- 
cidedly be  among  the  lastingly  significant  works  to 
come  out  of  Art  and  Technology;  certainly  Olden- 
burg himself  assumes  high  priority  in  our  estimation 
of  the  program  as  a  whole,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that 
the  ideas  inspired  by  his  contact  with  Disney  are 
potentially  some  of  the  most  important  work  of  his 
career. 

We  shall  definitely  count  on  sending  the  Giant  Icebag 
to  Expo  70  at  Osaka,  and  I  feel  more  and  more 
strongly  that  whatever  components  of  the  Theatre  of 
Objects  can  be  completed  in  time,  such  as  the  Choco- 
late Earthquake  or  the  Falling  Egg,  should  also  be 
included  in  the  Osaka  exhibition. 

May  I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  and 
thank  you  for  your  exceptional  responsiveness  to  the 


artist  matched  with  your  corporation.  We  anticipate 
that  this  endeavor  will  be  uniquely  momentous  and 
gratifying  for  all  concerned. 

On  July  2,  the  following  letter  from  E.  Cardon  Walker 

was  delivered  by  messenger  to  the  Museum: 
Dear  Mr.  Donahue: 

We  have  received  your  letter  and  Mr.  Tuchman's 
letter,  both  dated  June  23,  1969,  and  directed  to 
John  Hench,  Vice-President,  wherein  you  advise  us 
that  you  are  selecting  The  Icebag  and  Oldenburg's 
Ride  as  artistic  projects  for  the  Art  and  Technology 
program. 

While  we  understand  your  keen  interest  in  the  pro- 
jects submitted  by  Mr.  Oldenburg,  we  find  there  are 
other  substantial  factors  to  be  considered  by  us. 
Therefore,  pursuant  to  Paragraph  6  of  the  November 
25,  1968,  agreement  between  the  Museum  and  the 
Disney  organization,  we  do  hereby  advise  you  of  our 
disapproval  of  these  artistic  projects. 

Being  aware  of  your  expressed  delight  with  the  pro- 
jects proposed  by  Mr.  Oldenburg,  we  are  willing, 
upon  our  being  relieved  of  any  further  responsibility 
or  obligation,  to  make  available  all  right,  title,  and 
interest  in  the  preliminary  works  developed  by  Mr. 
Oldenburg  in  order  that  they  may  be  completed  by 
others. 

We  wish  to  extend  our  best  wishes  for  your  success  in 
this  venture  and  to  thank  you  for  the  opportunity  of 
working  with  you  and  with  such  a  renowned  artist  as 
Mr.  Oldenburg. 

MT  immediately  attempted  to  meet  with  Messrs.  Walker 
and  Hench,  who  were  not  eager  to  do  so,  but  who  finally 
agreed  to  see  him.  MT  reviewed  this  meeting  in  a  letter 
to  Walker  on  July  7: 

I  am  replying  to  your  letter  of  July  1  to  Mr.  Dona- 
hue. The  Director  has  been  out  of  the  country  and 
will  not  return  until  later  this  month.  I  want  to  thank 
you  and  Mr.  Hench  for  meeting  with  me  on  July  3  to 
discuss  the  relationship  between  WED  and  the  Mu- 
seum in  regard  to  Mr.  Oldenburg's  project  proposals. 

Let  me  review  our  discussion  of  July  3.  In  your  July 
1  letter,  you  refer  to  your  'disapproval  of  Oldenburg's 
artistic  projects'  and  state  that  'there  are  other  sub- 
stantial factors  to  be  considered'  which  lead  you  to 
desire  to  abandon  the  collaboration  with  Mr.  Olden- 
burg and  the  Museum.  You  told  me  that  these  factors 
primarily  involved  time,  energy  and  money;  that  the 
cost  to  WED  to  build  Oldenburg's  Icebag  would  be 
about  $125,000.00,  that  this  was  too  high  a  sum  to 
expend,  and  that  WED's  personnel  could  not  under- 
take such  an  involvement  this  year.  Since  Mr.  Oldenburg 


^i:,. 


A&T 


11 


__     (yj^  /lyiA  J  //,^n^1^T^^. 


^-MLf. 


I^ 


n^-^iLA^ 


J\^  ^.'-t^t>i'<o-/ 


^  Ki^.kS 


y^ 


fl  ^^Aff.^ 


t 


414.^  .'  (?/y;  /i'^)'//-  ^^ej  ^  J^er-A-ff, 


-dz:^^z:2_ 


^'rU  j^^^.  /i^^-^  fL/^ 


/-/ 


(  V^  ->  re -^ii/t  f\{^ 


{'r  "''t-'C^-r 


^/  -^fd  rf/  r)0  i  //-^  ^^f2  ^//^^^>- ' 


t^ 


252 


was  also  proposing  a  Theatre  of  Objects  (also 
called  Oldenburg's  Ride),  which  is  composed  of  eight 
or  nine  separate  parts,  all  of  which  are  uniquely  de- 
pendent upon,  and  were  prompted  by,  WED's  imagin- 
ative engineering,  I  asked  you  to  consider  discussing 
with  the  artist  how  this  project  might  be  accom- 
plished. You  agreed  to  have  John  Hench  discuss  this 
possibility  with  Mr.  Oldenburg  next  week  in  New 
York,  when  Mr.  Hench  would  be  there.  I  just  contac- 
ted Mr.  Oldenburg,  informed  him  of  these  sudden 
developments,  and  asked  him  to  meet  with  Mr.  Hench 
along  with  one  of  my  staff  members  (since  I  am  leav- 
ing for  Japan  July  7).  The  artist  indicated  his  willing- 
ness to  consider  the  making  of  several  separate  works 
from  the  Theatre  of  Objects  proposal,  but  he  was  just 
then  leaving  for  London  for  ten  days  and  therefore 
could  not  meet  with  Mr.  Hench  next  week.  He  indi- 


12 

cated  also  that  while  he  is  open  to  and  indeed  interes- 
ted in  working  on  several  separate  components  of  the 
Theatre,  or  even  a  modest  size  model  of  the  Theatre, 
that  it  would  be  unwise  to  hold  discussions  without 
some  guideline  set  down  by  WED  as  to  feasible  costs. 
If  the  Icebag  would  cost  too  much,  the  question  is, 
then,  how  large  a  sum  (including  staff  time)  is  WED 
willing  to  expend.  Until  this  matter  of  budget  is  de- 
termined by  you,  it  would  not  be  possible  to  proceed 
with  Mr.  Oldenburg.  The  artist  was  scheduled  to 
make  his  third  journey  to  WED  on  August  1  for  two 
weeks,  and  if  you  can  provide  this  financial  guideline, 
he  could  come  out  and  continue  research  on  the 
project  at  that  time. 

Since  you  had  not  been  intimately  involved  with  this 
project  over  the  last  few  months,  I  attempted  at  our 
July  3  meeting  to  fill  you  in  more  extensively  on  the 
WED-Oldenburg  relationship,  and  on  other  matters 
pertaining  to  the  entire  Art  and  Technology  program. 
I  indicated  that  the  progress  between  Oldenburg  and 
WED  had  been  extraordinary;  and  that  'Oldenburg  in 
Disneyland'  was  already  a  world-famous  enterprise, 
and  had  prompted  excitement  on  the  part  of  every 
leading  periodical  and  newspaper  informed  of  the 
event.  Countless  stories  have  been  and  are  now  in  the 


works  at  publications  like  Fortune,  Business  Week, 
Time,  and  New  Yorl<  Times,  the  Los  Angeles  Times 
and  European  television.  Recently,  the  Museum  has 
been  invited  by  the  United  States  Information 
Agency  to  prepare  the  New  Arts  exhibition  for  the 
United  States  Pavilion  at  Expo  70,  Osaka,  Japan.  This 
will  be  officially  announced  by  President  Nixon  next 
month,  but  a  formal  contract  between  the  Museum 
and  the  USIA  has  been  signed.  The  Museum  has  in- 
formed the  USIA,  in  a  report  of  June  1 ,  that  among 
our  highest  hopes  for  projects  to  be  included  in  the 
Worlds  Fair  were  works  of  art  expected  from  the 
Oldenburg/WED  collaboration.  This  would  mean  that 
WED  and  four  or  five  other  American  corporations 
would  be  the  sole  representatives  of  the  United  States 
to  a  world  audience  of  an  estimated  forty  million 
persons.  In  this  context,  as  I  submitted  to  you  two 
days  ago,  it  seemed  to  me  imperative  that  every  at- 
tempt be  made  to  arrive  at  a  satisfying  and  productive 
relationship  among  you,  the  Museum  and  this  most 
important  and  talented  artist.  With  the  world's  eyes 
upon  us,  and  with  every  reason  to  believe  that  the 
benefits  to  WED— if  for  no  other  reason  than  the 
truly  vast  promotional  exposure— are  so  compelling 
and  important,  the  Museum  again  asks  you  to  con- 
tinue working  with  us  to  a  productive  conclusion. 

E.  Cardon  Walker  replied  on  July  16, 

Our  position  in  regard  to  other  projects  from  Claes 
Oldenburg,  as  you  requested  in  your  July  7,  1969, 
letter,  is  that  we  cannot  properly  set  a  limit  on  staff 
time  for  these  projects.  In  fact,  the  original  concept 
of  the  agreement  was  that  we  would  pay  the  Museum 
$7,000  and  commit  to  supply  materials,  working 
space,  and  technical  assistance  for  three  months  or 
until  the  completion  of  the  project,  whichever  period 
was  shorter. 


Mr.  Oldenburg  first  visited  us  on  November  18,  1968, 
and  by  letter  of  January  23,  1969,  request  was  made 
for  working  space  in  March  of  1 969.  As  you  know, 
we  have  honored  our  obligation  of  $7,000,  and  the 
three-month  period  is  now  long  past.  Since  Mr. 
Oldenburg  was  scheduled  to  return  to  WED  on 
August  1,  we  would,  of  course,  consider  a  proposal 
developed  by  him  during  such  a  two-week  period, 
but,  as  indicated  above,  his  proposal  would  have  to 
reflect  the  major  labor  on  the  project  as  being  per- 
formed by  himself,  leaving  our  technical  staff  relative- 
ly free.  Any  costs  involved  should  not  be  dispropor- 
tionate to  the  original  $7,000  contribution  to  the 
Museum. 

We  are  sorry  a  mutually  agreeable  project  was  not 
developed,  but  we  must  now  turn  our  corporate 
efforts  toward  fulfillment  of  our  primary  obligations. 


253 


A&T 


None  of  the  points  mentioned  in  this  letter  conform  to 
the  contract  signed  by  Disney  and  the  Museum;  see  the 
Patron  Sponsor  Contract,  p.  31. 

Informed  of  these  developments,  Claes  Oldenburg  was 
dismayed,  but  set  about  constructively  to  realize  his 
plans,  or  one  of  them,  in  other  ways.  He  suggested  fabri- 
cation of  the  Icebag  as  an  enormous  balloon.  After  study 
on  our  part,  with  technical  advice  from  balloon  and 
rubber  companies  (for  a  time  it  looked  as  if  Goodyear 
Rubber  would  take  over  the  project),  this  was  deter- 
mined to  be  unfeasible.  In  the  process  of  researching 
balloon  companies  for  the  Icebag,  we  had  come  upon  a 
small  firm  that  seemed  promising  for  Claes's  other  plans 
for  illusionist  sculptures.  To  the  end  of  investigating  this 
possibility,  Oldenburg  returned  to  Los  Angeles  on 
August  1  and  toured,  with  MT  and  Gail  Scott,  a  firm 


13 


then  called  Vee-Line,  later  Allied  Research  and  Develop- 
ment Corporation,  in  Fountain  Valley.  Vee-Line  made 
large  inflatable  structures  for  scientific  and  military 
purposes  but  mainly  for  advertising,  with  items  then 
called  "Replic-AIr  Displays."  Claes  was  amused  by  a 
forty-foot  potato  chip  bag  balloon  that  had  been  made 
for  Laura  Scudder.  Oldenburg  worked  at  the  company 
for  four  days  with  David  Tanner,  the  chief  designer- 


engineer-administrator.  He  gave  Tanner  a  small  model  of 
the  Chocolate  Earthquake  [6] ,  to  be  made  into  a  three- 
foot  working  model.  The  model  was  delivered  three 
weeks  later  [12]  and  did  not  perform  to  the  artist's  sat- 
isfaction. Oldenburg  then  turned  to  working  on  an 
inflatable  banana  [13] ,  related  to  the  Fanana  plan  devel- 
oped at  Disney.  This  sculpture  was  to  be  about  twelve 
feet  high,  mechanized  so  that  four  banana  peels  (held 


254 


together  by  a  magnetic  winch  at  the  base)  would  unpeel 
while  the  banana  would  slowly  disappear  (being  deflated 
sectionally)  as  if  it  were  being  eaten.  [14]  Various 
models  were  made  by  Claes  [15]  and  then  by  Tanner, 
the  shape,  color  and  texture  were  approved,  and  we 
commissioned  the  company  to  produce  a  half-size  model 
in  order  to  test  the  working  parts  and  the  fabric,  and  to 
determine  the  kinetic  rhythms  of  the  work.  This  time, 
delivery  of  the  model  was  delayed  over  a  period  of 
months,  and  when  it  finally  appeared,  it  too  was  unsatis- 
factory to  the  artist.  The  project  was  abandoned. 

At  this  point  we  turned  Oldenburg's  designs  and  models 
for  the  Giant  Icebag  over  to  Ken  Tyler  at  Gemini  G.E.L., 
asking  Tyler  to  investigate  production  possibilities.  In  an 
interview  with  MT  in  October,  1970,  Tyler  recounted  his 
adventures  in  fabricating  this  monumental  sculpture: 
The  things  we  were  concerned  with  in  the  beginning 
were  an  elephant-like  quality  in  the  fabric,  the  breath- 
ing quality  and  the  swiveling  movement.  We  also  were 
originally  talking  about  a  thirty-foot  diameter  bag. 
And  that  meant  that  there  was  no  place  I  could  find 
—  I  made  a  lot  of  phone  calls  across  the  country  in 
those  days  for  you— there  was  no  place  I  knew  that 
could  spread  out  a  circle  of  fabric  thirty  feet  in  diam- 
eter and  sew  it.  There's  no  seamstress  outfit  that 
large.  We  had  all  these  things,  and  the  cap  was  to  be 
constructed  in  fiberglass,  or  wood,  or  steel.  Those 
were  no  real  problems,  we  knew  we  could  solve  them. 
But  we  couldn't  schedule  in  such  a  short  period  of 
time  because  we  couldn't  locate  houses  that  were 
capable  of  manufacturing  these  large  scale  items. 
When  it  came  down  to  it,  we  settled  for  animation 
houses.  So,  we  went  to  the  same  people  as  Disney 
would  go  to,  which  happened  to  be  Krofft  Enter- 
prises, in  the  final  analysis.  We  started  out  with  Gen- 
eral Displays.  They  built  the  first  two  prototypes— a 
six  footer  and  an  eight  footer.  The  eight  footer  is 
what  we  used  In  the  movie.  Sort  Of  A  Commercial 
For  An  Icebag.  At  that  time,  meeting  with  Claes  and 
going  back  and  forth  with  my  private  engineers, 
people  that  I  knew  who  have  helped  us  on  other  proj- 
ects, and  with  General  Displays,  we  came  up  with  the 
various  movements  that  we  felt  could  be  done  hy- 
draullcally  or  by  air.  We  settled  for  hydraulics 
because  it  was  a  self-contained  unit  with  lasting  abil- 
ity where  air  had  some  problems:  movement  would 
be  too  staccato-like  and  also  air  cylinders  became  too 
complex  technically  given  the  time  we  had  to  con- 
struct the  bag  .... 


then  he  always  talked  about  the  serpentine  action  of 
the  bag  related  to  a  roller-coaster  because  remember 
he  had  been  working  on  the  Disney  Oldenburg's  Ride, 
so  all  of  that  was  kind  of  In  his  head,  and  it  was  very 
difficult  to  get  it  out  of  his  head  and  put  it  down  on  a 
piece  of  paper  and  say  would  you  settle  for  this, 
would  this  be  a  sufficient  movement  for  this  piece. 
And  that  is  all  we  were  involved  with  in  the  first  four 
weeks.  We  were  trying  to  find  from  Claes  one  move- 
ment at  a  time.  What  was  our  latitude  in  that  move- 
ment? Would  he  settle  for  six  inches  or  a  foot?  Did 
we  always  have  to  maintain  a  thirty  foot  diameter? 
Could  we  shrink  it  if  we  had  to?  How  much  could  we 
shrink  It?  We  talked  about  twenty -eight  feet.  We 
talked  about  twenty-two  feet.  We  kept  bringing  him 
down  In  increments  then  finally  got  around  to  the 
eighteen  foot  one.  Now  how  did  we  get  around  to 
that?  By  just  spreading  It  out  on  the  floor  and  sud- 
denly he  saw  that  an  eighteen  foot  diameter  was 
pretty  large  and  this  defined  the  scale  for  him  .... 


14 


Then  we  found  out  by  discussing  this  over  and  over 
again  with  Claes  that  the  tilt  of  the  cap  was  an  impor- 
tant movement  to  him,  which  none  of  us  had  ever 
considered.  We  always  thought  that  that  was  a  fixed 
position,  and  as  it  rotated  the  cap  created  the  impres- 
sion of  a  wave,  of  an  up  and  down  movement.  And 


255 


A&T 


15 


^- 


'  .    '  //'  Cil./  liifil 


>■/'—  h/' 


y.        ^- 


256 


We  knew  that  in  order  to  get  the  bag  absolutely  right 
we  would  have  to  go  through  several  prototype  bags: 
how  many  we  didn't  know.  As  it  turned  out  we  went 
through  four  bags.  Two  got  built,  two  got  destroyed 
—one  ate  itself  during  the  filming  session.  Remember 
that  one  when  you  were  there?  The  fabric  got  caught 
in  the  gears  and  it  ate  itself.  [16]  Then  we  got  into  a 
series  of  difficulties  with  the  fabricator  General  Dis- 
plays, and  they  turned  out  to  be  over-enthusiastic  in 
the  sense  that  they  didn't  have  the  means  to  build 
something  of  this  scale  with  precision.  There  were  no 
electrical  provisions  in  the  first  prototype.  We  were 
purely  concerned  with  mechanics.  We  were  not  in- 
volved, at  that  time,  with  programming  the  bag.  Pro- 
gramming came  much  later  in  the  history  of  the  bag's 
construction,  when  we  got  eight  blowers  going.  That's 
when  we  found  out  that  eight  separate  blowers  inflat- 
ing at  different  times  would  move  the  bag  like  a 
snake,  with  serpentine  movements,  or  wave  move- 
ments. Now  we  got  involved  with  the  cam  system  and 
here  we  needed  an  automation  house  such  as  Krofft, 
even  though  our  people  could  say  yes,  you  do  it  with 
a  cam  that  trips  the  blower  one  at  a  time,  so  that  you 
have  one  cam  that  drives  the  blowers,  and  you  have 


one  cam  that  drives  the  cylinder  which  goes  up  and 
down,  and  you  have  one  cam  which  drives  the  tilt  of 
the  cap  thirty  degrees,  and  of  course  you  have  one 
cam  that  shuts  the  machine  off  if  you  want  to  shut  it 
off.  But  also  at  this  time  we  discussed  the  machine 
having  to  run  continuously,  which  set  up  another 
kind  of  problem  for  us.  Studies  were  made  for  a 
heavy  duty  hydraulic  system  that  could  run  contin- 
uously. This  put  another  burden  on  us.  Then  we  got 
caught  up  with  the  problem  of  building  a  super-struc- 
ture with  the  bag  light  enough  to  go  to  Osaka  in 
pieces  because  you  couldn't  have  an  eighteen  foot- 
diameter— it  wouldn't  fit  into  the  airplane  or  through 
the  existing  door  openings  in  the  American 
Pavilion  .... 

The  engineers  were  being  fed  information,  they 
would  make  a  drawing  and  we  would  change  the 
drawing,  we'd  get  a  cap  design  and  we  would  change 
that  cap  design,  we'd  get  a  hook-up  going  and  we 
would  decide  we  couldn't  do  that  because  it  would  be 
too  unrealistic  to  take  that  bag  apart  in  so  many 
pieces.  So  it  was  decided,  really  out  of  desperation, 
that  we  had  to  build  what  they  call  a  knock-down 


16 


257 


A&T 


unit— a  unit  that  anyone  could  put  together  anywhery 
in  the  world  with  a  manual.  We  proceeded  to  make, 
like  a  refrigerator  or  a  stove  is  made,  a  part  and  a 
bunch  of  other  parts  to  go  together  with  the  guide- 
lines of  a  manual.  Everything  locks  together  with 
bolts  and  nuts,  and  there  is  no  one  rigid  kind  of  con- 
struction. And  I  think  this  is  when  the  real  form  of 
the  bag  was  established,  eighteen  feet  in  diameter, 
rising  to  a  height  of  about  twelve  to  sixteen  feet,  with 
an  established  path  of  travel.  By  this  time  adequate 
testing  on  vinyls  and  other  fabrics  had  been  made, 
and  Claes,  collaborating  with  Sidney  Felsen,  made  his 
decision  on  the  pink  shade  and  the  type  of  polyvinyl 
that  we  were  to  use.  During  this  time,  Sid  spent  many 
days  attempting  to  secure  sufficient  material  to  con- 
struct the  bag  without  having  to  order  a  special  mill 
run  which  was  too  costly.  We  then  got  to  the  weight 
of  the  fabric,  then  dressed  the  weight  up  with  foam 
inside  so  the  bag  would  again  return  to  the  elephant- 
like movement .... 

Then  we  couldn't  find  a  stock  cylinder  to  use  because 
Vickers,  which  manufactures  the  type  of  hydraulic 
cylinders  we  were  looking  for,  had  to  ship  all  they 


made  to  Viet  Nam,  for  use  in  helicopters.  We  wasted 
a  lot  of  time  on  this  problem.  Stanley  Grinstein  got 
on  the  phone  calling  all  around  the  country  trying  to 
buy  cylinders  that  we  could  adapt  to  drive  the  bag  up 
and  down  and  couldn't  find  one.  Finally  Krofft 
found  Conquip,  in  Upland,  California,  and  Conquip 
said,  I  understand  your  plight,  and  they  had  a  fairly 
good  idea  of  what  we  wanted,  and  by  that  time  we 
had  some  pretty  good  models  constructed  at  Krofft. 
So  they  came  in  and  said.  We  think  we  can  make  you 
cylinders  within  six  to  nine  weeks,  which  wasn't  good 
enough.  We  had  to  have  cylinders  before  that.  By  this 
time  we  were  still  working  with  your  deadline  of  Sep- 
tember which  we  couldn't  make,  and  then  you  gave 
us  I  think  another  thirty  days  which  made  it  October 
or  November;  I  am  not  sure  of  those  dates.  Finally  we 
got  to  December  and  shipped  in  January.  So  as  it 
turns  out,  if  there  wasn't  this  company  in  the  valley 
that  was  manufacturing  pistons  of  the  size  we  were 
looking  for,  we  wouldn't  have  completed  and  shipped 
the  bag  .... 

With  most  projects,  the  aerospace  or  military  require- 
ments screw  up  somebody's  delivery.  The  one  manu- 


IDEAS-FLUID  POWER 


Simple  Drive  System  Generates  Complex  Motion 

Hydraulic,  pneumatic,  mechanical  elements  combine  to  raise,  precess 
and  tilt  "icebag". 


!■■    r     JT(.NGCL.  WEST  COAf-T   FOirOH 

Background:  At  die  IHTil  <  K.iK;i 
W.-rkr  lApo.  niR- <il  ilu-  I  ,^  i;i.iii|. 
t\fiiliitv  ts ill  Ik-  v^<>^k^  I niiii  "  \ti  .itkI 

-U-din..l..-^".    .ni    <.nK"iiiW    mi-hI.tm 

■-n    I'l'-t,'".!!. c   I.ns    \,^^,■\v. 

<  nnnn  Mi.sounu.l  An,  IVmi.  iiMriii^ 
s.ulim..-  Cljcs   Okk-nlmru'  .l.^.tin.-.l 

-isai.  .. ,1, -.,...  fl..c.eln>, l,v  I  S.  |m- 
Mlti.n  III  eM'c.iu-hini;  i;i..iir  i(i-l);(^; 
IIk-  «..rk  iv,n  siH.iiM.icd  l.\  (.i-nii.ii 
(..  I-..  l....il,.l>uKr.,,>l,v  nnrksll-i.  ... 
l...sAiii;d.-v  l-.iKi.u-.nni;.lfMi;ii  ,1,1.1 

(.ll.iic.irji.i.lsf1<-|><'.I..VJiU-<II.V   k.nllt 

I-nir.pnM-.  In.-..  V,.i.  \..vv  (.liil. 
Design   Concept:   (  Hili-nlmi  .;'s   li.ixii 


258 


facturer  we  were  dealing  with  to  sew  the  bag  was 
busy  building  tents  and  we  couldn't  get  his  time. 
Then  we  found  Featherlike  Products  Company.  This 
company  was  really  the  secret  to  the  Icebag  at  the 
last  minute.  They  said,  'Yes,  we  can  sew  it,'  and  with 
that  we  were  able  to  pursue  the  course  with  the  en- 
gineers, hydraulic  people,  design  people,  and  Krofft 
....  So  then  the  bag  went  ahead.  We  almost  lost  the 
project  when  it  got  to  the  point  where  they  wanted 
three  months  to  run  and  test  the  bag  and  we  couldn't 
give  it  to  them  because  the  bag  had  to  be  shipped  by 
boat  on  a  certain  date. 


Featherlike  was  my  buffer.  I  went  back  to  Krofft  and 
said  look  I  have  got  somebody  that  can  sew  our  bag 
and  you  won't  have  to  take  your  costume  people  off 
the  filming  of  PufnStuf  to  sew  this  fabric  and  they 
have  a  big  room  over  there  where  they  can  sew  a  bal- 
loon thirty  feet  in  diameter.  But  in  fabric  construc- 
tion a  pattern  can  be  off  by  as  much  as  fifty  percent 
of  the  material,  depending  on  how  you  pleat  it,  how 
you  sew  it,  how  you  cut  it  and  the  whole  bit.  So  Sid 
got  this  fabric— which  took  another  solid  week  of 
phone  calls  all  the  way  around  the  country  calling 
every  manufacturer  of  polyvinyl  material.  The  seam- 
stresses were  almost  going  to  kill  themselves  trying  to 
sew  this.  They  were  very  heroic  in  this  effort.  These 
women  just  couldn't  handle  that  kind  of  weight  so 
additional  help  was  required.  Just  to  drape  several 
hundred  pounds  of  material  and  sew  it  was  quite  an 
awesome  job  .... 

When  we  got  into  the  movement  of  the  bag,  once  we 
resolved  the  sixteen  foot  height,  we  got  the  general 
perspective  of  the  bag,  up  and  down  motion  and  so 
on.  Then  we  were  able  to  come  up  with  some  general 
concepts  of  moving  the  fabric  up  and  down.  One  idea 
was  a  roller-coaster  concept  which  would  be  a  trough 
that  ran  around  the  outside  of  the  bag  shaped  like  a 
roller-coaster.  It  would  have  an  undulated  quality  to 
it.  There  would  be  a  big  ball  on  an  arm,  and  it  would 


roll  around  this  roller-coaster  and  therefore  move  the 
fabric.  This  idea  I  came  up  with  seemed  very  reason- 
able at  the  time,  but  it  turned  out  to  be  so  bizarre 
that  even  Jules  Verne  would  have  rejected  it  ...  . 

In  collaboration  you  have  to  be  careful  not  to  give 
the  artist  one  hundred  choices  because  then  it  is  going 
to  take  him  six  months  to  decide  which  choice  he  is 
going  to  like  best.  So  we  were  trying  to  keep  Claes  in 
the  position  of  informing  us  rather  than  our  inform- 
ing him.  [17]   In  other  words,  we  would  present 
something  to  Claes  and  then  watch  him  closely  and  if 
he  reacted  very,  very  favorably,  we  would  pursue  it 
for  another  couple  of  days  and  then  try  it  out.  We 
just  didn't  know.  No  one  had  built  anything  of  this 
size  before,  nor  had  anything  been  built  with  the  dur- 
ability aspects  that  we  were  trying  for,  because  most 
outdoor  displays  don't  last.  Most  Fairs  are  built  only 
for  a  Fair's  time.  Things  are  not  built  to  last  five,  ten, 
fifteen,  twenty-five  years  so  that  was  the  obstacle 
course  we  were  running.  Also  we  were  simultaneously 
trying  to  come  up  with  a  design  and  double-checking 
everyone's  ideas.  Will  that  motor  last,  how  long;  has  it 
got  hermetic  seal  bearings;  can  we  install  a  larger 
motor  so  it  will  last  longer;  will  we  have  enough 
power  in  the  U.S.  Pavilion  in  Osaka.  We  couldn't  ob- 
tain enough  power  there,  I  learned,  so  we  changed  the 
voltage  for  the  bag,  reducing  every  motor  down  in 
amperage.  It  scared  the  daylights  out  of  me  because 
each  time  you  would  give  me  a  phone  call  it  would 
just  throw  everything  in  a  state  of  chaos  with  the 
changes.  None  of  us  ever  knew  what  was  feasible  in 
this  collaboration  .... 

When  my  partners  Sidney  Felsen  and  Stanley  Grin- 
stein  finally  negotiated  the  contract  with  Krofft  there 
were  two  things  we  asked  for.  One,  we  asked  for  total 
participation  by  all  of  Krofft's  members.  In  other 
words,  we  wanted  to  have  the  ability  to  go  from  the 
sewing  department  to  the  animated  department  to 
the  woodworking  department  to  the  electric  depart- 
ment to  executive  offices  if  we  had  to.  But  we  also 
asked  if  we  could  bring  anybody  we  wanted  into  their 
shop  at  any  time  we  wanted  to  inspect  what  they 
were  doing,  and  if  necessary  even  take  part  of  their 
shop  and  have  it  analyzed  because  we  were  under  a 
tremendous  obligation  with  no  time  and  virtually  no 
money.  They  were  able  to  see  this  because  Holly- 
wood operates  under  very  strange  circumstances. 
They  are  not  like  most  manufacturing  outfits.  So  I 
used  the  people  who  built  my  press  to  study  the  hy- 
draulic system  and  tell  me  it  was  all  right.  I  used 
Featherlike  to  tell  me  if  the  bag  was  sewn  properly. 
We  used  our  wood  model  makers  to  tell  us  if  what 
they  were  putting  on  was  wrong  and  therefore 
changed  it.  Krofft  controlled  most  of  the  testing,  and 
we  had  them  build  a  machine  to  test  the  stretchabil- 


259 


A&T 


17 


ity  of  a  polyvinyl.  Even  though  manufacturers  gave  us 
these  test  results  we  didn't  believe  thenn.  Every  step 
required  some  form  of  checking  .... 

We  had  to  go  to  theatrical  people,  we  couldn't  go  to 
aerospace  people  or  to  other  engineering  people  who 
are  used  to  six  and  seven  months  lead  time,  or  engi- 
neers who  are  used  to  taking  a  problem  home  and 
making  teeny  models  and  looking  at  it  for  a  week  be- 
fore they  even  dare  make  a  step  to  produce  some- 
thing larger.  We  had  to  go  to  people  like  Sid  and 
Marty  Krofft,  who  had  guts  and  who  were  able  to  say 
fantastic,  we  believe  in  you,  go  ahead  and  do  the 
project.  You  don't  make  great  movies  without  doing 
this  or  great  puppets  or  great  sculpture.  They  thought 
of  the  Icebag  as  another  character  in  one  of  their 
movies.  It  was  very  funny  to  hear  them  talk  about  all 
the  characters  that  they  have  built.  They  talk  about 
these  time  schedules  where  a  guy  says  on  Friday 
afternoon,  and  the  board  meeting  is  a  week  away,  'I 
don't  like  the  look  of  that  dog.  I  surely  don't  want 
that  on  television  next  week  with  that  stupid  dog  in 
it.'  [18]  That  gives  them  seven  days  to  change  the 
dog,  so  no  one  goes  home.  They  just  keep  working 
until  the  dog  is  changed.  Well,  we  really  came  in  with 
the  same  kind  of  concept.  We  don't  like  what  we  have 
as  a  schedule  for  you,  we  said.  We  don't  like  what  we 
are  presenting  in  drawings  because  they  are  not  very 


accurate.  But  you  are  professional  people  in  a  theatre 
and  you  are  used  to  working  all  hours.  So  you  have  to 
write  a  contract  with  us  which  says  I  stay  up  twenty- 
four  hours  a  day,  you  stay  up  twenty-four  hours  a 
day.  Whether  the  artist  is  there  or  not,  you  work  any 
schedule  I  want  you  to  work  until  the  bag  is  com- 
pleted. So  we  exclusively  would  have  X  amount  of 


18 


260 


people  from  start  to  finish.  That's  it.  It  has  to  be  on 
that  schedule  or  we  will  never  make  it  and  therefore 
it  is  silly  to  sign  a  contract  with  you  because  you  will 
only  be  late.  If  we  are  late,  the  Museum  will  be  cheat- 
ed out  of  their  piece,  and  they  have  an  agreement 
with  the  government,  etc.,  etc.  Krofft  signed  the  con- 
tract. It  was  easy  to  drive  that  bargain  with  them  be- 
cause they  were  theatrical  people.  You  can't  do  this 
with  other  kinds  of  businesses.  They  work  under 
regular  union  shop  hours.  The  union  says  you  don't 
work  unless  you  get  double  time,  triple  time.  And 
you  can't  even  work  around  the  clock,  it  is  against 
the  law.  But  with  these  kind  of  people,  who  are  all 
skilled  artists,  they  work  as  long  as  they  have  to  work 
to  get  something  done.  So  they  were  really  very  much 
like  artists.  An  artist  doesn't  stop  painting  when  he 
wants  to  continue,  he  just  keeps  going  until  he  falls 
down.  Maurice,  we  had  a  very  sick  looking  group  at 
the  end  of  the  project.  In  fact,  four  of  them  didn't  go 
to  bed  for  three  days.  That's  what  it  took  to  get  the 
Icebag  to  the  opening,  and  we  didn't  know  if  we  had 
to  stay  up  for  three  more  days  to  change  the  cams 
and  this  was  very  shaky  stuff.  Now  the  only  confi- 
dence that  I  gave  you  was  the  confidence  I  had  in 
that  agreement.  This  was  the  reason  why  I  was  able  to 
be  grandiose  about  it  all  and  say  don't  worry  Maurice, 
we'll  get  it  to  you,  and  that  date  is  all  right.  And  we 
would  say  to  Claes  don't  worry  Claes,  by  the  time 
you  come  back  out  to  L.A.  it  will  be  running  or  the 
blower  will  be  working,  or  the  fabric  will  be  sewn.  We 
just  knocked  ourselves  out  until  it  happened.  Every 
day  I  would  drive  out  to  Krofft  and  we  would  get  a 
schedule.  We  would  spec  it;  we  would  go  over  certain 
things.  I  would  drive  back  home  and  get  to  work  in 
the  shop.  This  thing  kept  up  for  about  three  months. 
It  was  living  hell  but  the  kind  of  hell  you  would  go 
through  when  you  do  set  designing  or  when  you're 
working  with  a  little  theatre  or  a  professional  theatre. 
That's  the  sort  of  spirit  that  went  through  the  crea- 
tion of  the  Icebag.  To  me  it  is  the  piece,  Maurice,  it 
really  is  the  piece  that  did  it ...  . 

I  think  that  all  of  us  got  involved  in  this  project,  you, 
Gemini,  Claes,  basically  because  we  were  alt  very  con- 
vinced that  something  like  this  should  be  done  and 
the  time  was  right.  It  was  right  for  the  artist,  it  was 
right  for  you,  and  it  was  right  for  us.  We  weren't  pre- 
pared maybe  in  the  best  of  ways,  but  we  certainly 
didn't  baby  ourselves  in  the  situation  and  we  certain- 
ly didn't  have  a  lot  of  buffers  to  protect  us.  I  think 
because  you  had  a  limited  budget  and  you  had  limit- 
ed time  and  you  passed  that  on  to  us  and  the  artist 
together  we  were  all  able  to  work  together  in  this  tri- 
angle association.  We  were  proceeding  on  the  course 
that  Billy  Kluver  and  E.A.T.  thought  about  for  years 
but  never  were  really  able  to  pull  off.  So  the  missing 
link  in  Art  and  Technology  has  to  be  timing,  and  it  is 


something  very  few  people  are  willing  to  talk  about 
because  they  just  don't  think  about  it.  I  think  if  you 
would  bring  to  us  today  the  Icebag  knowing  what  we 
know  today,  we  would  not  commit  to  three  months, 
we  just  wouldn't.  We  are  too  knowledgeable  now.  We 
would  say  eight  months  and  we  probably  wouldn't  do 
a  better  bag.  I  believe  that  the  shortness  of  the 
schedule,  the  pressures  that  were  brought  upon  every- 
one, the  messed  up  situation  in  Osaka,  were  all  ex- 
tremely beneficial  .... 


m 


SAvSs 


There  are  few  artists  other  than  Claes  who  could  have 
done  this,  with  such  precision  and  logic.  I  am  sure  it 
took  its  toll.  I  saw  it  on  Claes,  who  was  very  tired 
after  this.  This  took  a  tremendous  amount  out  of 
Claes  the  artist,  but  he  had  the  foresight  in  the  very 
beginning  to  know  that  he  was  going  to  have  to  oper- 
ate within  a  very  large  arena  of  people  and  he  set  up 
certain  kinds  of  responsibilities  that  he  was  willing  to 
give  to  people  who  were  operating  in  various  capaci- 
ties. This  is  very  unusual  stuff.  Generally  the  artist  is 
not  capable  of  doing  that .... 

Art  and  technology  rarely  works,  I  think,  and  it  has 
to  do  with  the  element  of  time,  the  surprise  situation 
when  timing  becomes  absolutely  the  most  important 
thing.  I  think  today  if  you  would  ask  yourself  this 
question,  could  I  go  out  now  and  duplicate  this  or 
that  project  and  improve  it?— that  is  the  key  question 
—I  think  you  would  in  most  cases  have  to  come  up 
with  the  answer  no.  I  don't  think  that  Claes  will  ever 
do  a  collaboration  like  this  again.  He  has  learned  too 


261 


A&T 


much  from  it,  and  everyone  around  him  has  learned 
too  much  from  it.  That  in  no  way  takes  away  from 
the  project,  but  I  think  in  this  whole  enterprise— the 
surprise  of  the  short  budget,  of  the  fanatic  spirit  that 
one  gets  into  when  all  these  obstacle  courses  are 
thrown  at  you,  and  the  kind  of  tenacity  that  you 
exercise  in  situations  like  this  as  a  creative  person— 
that  we  are  really  talking  about  theatre.  I  think  may- 
be this  is  the  theatre— putting  together  all  these 
families  of  people  and  their  interaction.  This  really  is 


the  living  theatre.  It's  not  on  Broadway  any  more, 
but  this  certainly  is  it.  For  me  the  technicians  are  the 
stage  designers,  the  set  builders,  the  choreographers, 
and  our  guys  like  Claes  are  the  actors.  We  may  be  the 
producers  or  directors,  or  writers,  or  what  have  you, 
that  are  involved  in  this  complex  of  work.  But  we  are 
really  performing  in  the  greatest  tradition  of  theatre, 
no  time,  no  money,  all  impossible  deeds,  but  some- 
how it  gets  across  and  some  accomplishment  comes 
from  it. 


262 


The  Icebag  was  completed  in  early  January  and  was 
shown  in  a  preview  at  Krofft  [19] ,  before  it  was  shipped 
to  the  U.S.  Pavilion  at  Expo.  Oldenburg,  Tyler  and  a 
crew  of  Japanese  workmen  installed  it  in  one  week's 
time.  It  was  placed  at  the  entrance  to  the  New  Arts 
exhibition. 


19 


263 


A&T 


m.~ 

ftl^^a 

^ 

*^^l 

lb 

gj^ 

1 

264 


Oldenburg  has  speculated  on  the  Giant  Icebag  and  A  &  T 
at  length,  in  taped  Interviews  with  Eric  Saarinen,  with 
Jane  Livingston  and  with  MT.  The  following  excerpts 
come  from  these  various  conversations,  made  in  March, 
July  and  September,  1970: 

Getting  involved  with  Art  and  Technology,  I  had  to 
ask  myself  first  of  all  what  particular  problem  was  it 
that  I  couldn't  solve  myself  in  my  own  studio  and  I 
needed  help  with;  and  I  thought  the  most  difficult 
thing  was  really  to  find  some  soft  material  which 
could  be  used  in  a  quantity  and  also  be  durable 
enough  to  serve  outdoors  as  a  public  sculpture.  And 
this  I  hadn't  solved,  and  I  hoped  perhaps  that  Art  and 
Technology  could  provide  me  with  the  resources  for, 
oh,  some  kind  of  material— rubber  or  something 
stronger  and  thicker  than  the  kind  of  vinyl  that  I  had 
been  using.  The  other  thing  that  I  needed  was,  of 
course,  machinery  which  could  create  a  slight  move- 
ment of  the  object  itself.  Up  to  this  point  I  had  relied 
on  the  suggestion  of  movement  or  on  the  spectator, 
say,  who  would  own  a  piece  and  would  move  the 
piece  around  himself.  But  it  was  now  interesting  to 
me  to  see  if  I  could  discover  a  way  to  make  the  piece 
itself  move  in  a  very  slight  way  and  change  its  aspect. 
So  these  two  things  I  really  couldn't  solve  in  my 
studio  because  I  knew  very  little  about  mechanics  and 
I  had  no  workshop.  And  I  had  been  using  vinyl,  but  I 
hoped  that  through  Art  and  Technology  I  could  dis- 
cover something  stronger,  thicker.  As  it  turned  out  in 
the  final  result,  what  was  used  for  the  Icebag  was 
vinyl  again  and  not  much  different  from  the  sort  of 
vinyl  that  I  had  been  using  all  along,  so  that  there 
wasn't  any  advance  on  that  front,  but  there  was  an 
advance  on  the  front  of  mechanics— that  is,  a  struc- 
ture was  built  with  a  gear  system  and  hydraulic 
system,  which  all  cost  quite  a  bit  of  money  and  took 
a  lot  of  expert  help,  and  this  motor  enabled  the  sculp- 
ture to  move.  So  I  had  what  I  wanted,  which  was  a 
sculpture  that  moved  or  an  object  that  moved  by 
itself.  The  Icebag  as  it  operates  in  Osaka,  is  doing 
pretty  much  what  I  wanted  it  to  do,  but  one  finds 
that— or  I  found  that  there  were  always  compromises. 
The  whole  problem  with  technology  is  that  you  can't 
achieve  the  directness  that  your  fingers  can  make 
when  you  alter  something  the  way  you  want  it  in  the 
studio.  I  mean  if  you  have  clay  or  if  you  have  cloth  or 
if  you  have  some  simple  material  that's  non-technical 
and  doesn't  involve  a  lot  of  other  people's  help,  you 
can  very  easily  alter  it  and  make  it  look  exactly  the 
way  you  want  it  to.  But  this  is  not  possible  in  work- 
ing with  technicians— it  becomes  a  very  indirect 
process,  so  that  you  have  to  give  an  order  or  com- 
mand perhaps  long  distance  and  wait  for  several 
weeks  before  it's  achieved,  and  then  it's  not  achieved 
quite  the  way  you  want  it— but  it's  pretty  close  to  it. 
But  it  becomes  so  difficult  just  to  make  a  slight  little 
movement  to  make  is  exactly  the  way  you  want  it. 


and  so  it  becomes  finally  a  kind  of— well,  finally  the 
technicians  say  we've  reached  the  limit  and  you  de- 
cide that  perhaps  they  have  reached  the  limit,  and 
one  has  to  settle  for  just  a  little  bit  less  of  what  one 
wants.  Sometimes  one's  lucky.  But  it's  these  little, 
tiny,  final  adjustments  that  I  miss  perhaps  in  the 
Icebag— there  might  have  been  a  few  things  that  I 
would  have  thought  of  right  at  the  end  which  would 
have  brought  the  piece  into  a  much  more  personal 
solution  or  context,  which  I  could  not  do  simply 
because  technology  had  determined  a  certain  direc- 
tion and  it  was  too  expensive  and  the  time  didn't 
allow  for  these  final  adjustments  and  changes.  But 
that's  all  right  because  I  consider  the  whole  thing 
rather  experimental,  anyway.  It  certainly  is  the  most 
complex  piece  I've  ever  done,  and  the  first  of  what  I 
hope  to  be  more  complex  pieces  .... 


Technology  is  an  available  material,  which  is  very  dif- 
ferent from  certain  conventional  ideas  of  artistic 
activity  in  that  it  involves  a  lot  of  other  people,  and  it 
involves  using  skills  that  the  artist  or  the  originator  of 
the  event  or  action  doesn't  necessarily  possess.  I  don't 
know  anything  about  mechanics,  and  yet  I'm  creating 
something,  or  I'm  imagining  something  which  in- 
volves mechanics  and  I'm  asking  someone  else  to  do  it 
for  me.  The  question  is,  can  anyone  else  do  it  for  me, 
or  could  I  allow  other  people  to  do  things  that  I  don't 
know  anything  about,  and  what  kind  of  controls  and 
what  kind  of  respect  can  I  create  in  them  for  my  in- 
tention if  I  don't  really  know  what  they're  doing.  So 
there  are  very  special  problems  involved  in  technol- 
ogy. There's  also  a  kind  of  a  rush  towards  completion 
on  the  one  hand— you  start  something  going  and  you 
invest  a  certain  amount  of  money  in  a  kind  of 
machine,  and  you  get  a  result,  which  is  very  limited— 
because  in  technology  everything  is  highly  limited. 
You  get  a  limited  result,  and  you  don't  like  the  result 
and  it  becomes  difficult  then  to  throw  away  the 
whole  machine  and  start  over  again.  So  that  technol- 
ogy is  very  deterministic— the  activity  in  the  studio  is 
so  much  more  fun  because  you  can  change  things 
constantly.  In  technology  you  just— you  have  to  be 


A&T 


i 


very  sure  what  you're  doing  before  you  give  the 
orders  to  go  ahead,  so  it's  an  activity  which  in  every 
way  denies  the  freedom  and  the  pleasure  of  being  an 
artist.  And  yet  it's  a  challenging  thing— I  think  of  it  as 
kind  of  a  defensive  activity  on  the  part  of  the  artist;  if 
he  can't  handle  this  material  which  is  so  very  much 
present  in  all  his  surroundings,  then,  you  know,  he'll 
sort  of  lose  face— John  Marin  used  to  feel  very  put 
down  by  taxi  cabs— he  saw  a  taxi  cab  especially  in  the 
old  days  when  taxi  cabs  were  very  clean  and  very 
beautifully  colored,  and  he  said  to  himself  what  is  my 
painting  worth  next  to  a  taxi  cab?— a  taxi  cab  is  so 
much  more  powerful  and  beautiful  and  so  much  more 
expressive  of  the  present  time.  That  used  to  depress 
him.  And  I  feel  sometimes  the  same  way  about 
machinery— when  I  see  it.  In  my  happening  in  '63  in 
Los  Angeles,  I  used  automobiles,  and  one  of  the  best 
pieces  in  the  happening  was  a  concrete  mixer— a 
brand  new  concrete  mixer  that  I  had  gotten  from  the 
construction  company  just  by  asking  them  if  they'd 
send  it  over.  It  had  never  been  used  before,  and  I  used 
it  in  the  performance— I  just  moved  it  very  slightly.  It 
was  this  heavy,  powerful  object,  and  it  was  sort  of 
completely  at  my  disposal,  and  what  I  chose  to  do 
with  it  was  just  to  move  it  inches  this  way  and  that 
way,  and  this  way  and  that  way,  just  to  see  how  well 
such  a  huge  mechanical  object  could  perform  for  me 
without  doing  what  it  was  made  to  do,  without  func- 
tioning. It's  almost  like  lion  taming,  you  know,  deal- 
ing with  technology  this  way.  I  suppose  it  would  be 
very  difficult  to  feel  like  a  modern  artist  if  you 
weren't  in  some  way  coping  with  the  presence  of 
things  that  you  do  not  understand.  There's  so  much 
surrounding  you,  so  much  specialization  that  you 
don't  comprehend.  And  the  artist  is  supposed  to  be 
the  person  who  can  unify  or  make  a  whole  out  of 
diverse  things,  to  give  direction  and  order  and  he  has 
to  contend  with  technology  and  specialization.  And  if 
he  doesn't  do  that,  he  limits  himself.  So  I  think  it's 
kind  of  a  necessity  forced  on  the  artist  by  the 
times  .... 


I  think  perhaps  my  approach  to  technology  is  to  re- 
move the  difficulty  of  technology,  as  to  take  some- 
thing which  is  formidable  in  its  complexity,  and  make 
it  do  some  very  foolish  thing— and  I  sort  of  like  the 
idea  that  all  this  time  and  effort  was  spent  on  the 
Icebag.  I'm  creating  something  which  really  doesn't 
do  very  much.  It  just  does  something  very  simple;  and 
it  doesn't  do  anything  more  really  than  a  leaf  does  in 
the  wind.  I  don't  want  to  get  into  complex  motions.  I 
would  never  make  the  subject  of  the  work  the  fantas- 
tic complexity  that  technology  could  achieve— like  a 
Swiss  watch,  for  example.  I  mean  that's  very  interest- 
ing to  watch,  but  that's  not  my  aim.  I  think  I  would 
go  in  just  the  opposite  direction.  I  would  take  all  this 
complexity  that  technology  can  provide  and  direct  it 


266 


towards  a  simple  solution  that  equates  it  more  with 
nature,  or  gets  it,  you  know,  out  of  the  mechanical 
realm  and  back  into  nature.  So  I'm  very  concerned 
that  the  Icebag,  after  all  its  machinery  action,  looks 
like  it  was  alive.  It's  the  philosophy  of  the  automaton 
and  it  was  what  Walt  Disney  dreamed  about,  which 
was  the  great  irony— that  he  had  spent  millions  to 
create  technology  that  would  give  him  the  effect  of 
life.  His  dream  was  to  strap  these  recording  apparatus- 
es on  an  acting  company  and  do  all  the  plays  of 
Shakespeare  so  that  he  could  then  reconstruct  the 
plays  with  automatons— in  other  words  to  get  back  to 
nature,  but  to  make  nature  yourself— in  other  words 
to  give,  I  guess  to  give  birth  to  nature  yourself 
through  the  machine.  But  I  wouldn't  try  to  take  on 
anything  that  complex— I  mean  the  Icebag  has  a  very 
simple  life— it's  a  very  simple  organism,  it's  something 
like  a  starfish,  a  very  low  level  of  organism.  And  I 
would  like  to  keep  it  that  way.  I  wouldn't  want  it  to 
walk  around  and  behave  like  a  robot.  I  would  just  like 
it  to  kind  of  crawl  around— I'm  very  fond  of  snails 
and  I  have  a  zoo  of  snails  in  the  back— and  it's  that 
kind  of  activity  that  I  like  .... 

There  are  some  things  that  I  played  around  with  be- 
fore which  probably  relate  to  the  Icebag— once  I  had 
a  big  fried  egg  about  fourteen  feet  across,  which  was 
used  in  a  performance  at  Stockholm  in  '66.  There 
were  people  under  the  egg  which  animated  the  egg— 
the  fried  egg— it  looked  very  much  like  an  icebag.  Bob 
Breer  did  some  things  with  a  self-moving  object  and  a 
few  years  ago  he  put  a  cloth  and  some  silver  foil  over 
some  of  his  moving  objects,  and  it  produced  a  mater- 
ial that  looked  as  if  you  had  dropped  a  cloth  on  the 
floor  and  the  material  itself  had  come  to  life  and 
began  to  move— but  you  couldn't  see  the  motors 
underneath.  So  at  that  time  I  proposed  combining  the 
two  agents— the  motors  that  Bob  developed  with  the 
fried  egg  that  I  had  developed— so  what  we  would 
have  would  be  kind  of  a  crawling,  moving  fried  egg,  a 
flexing  fried  egg.  So  things  like  that  had  been  in  my 
head  for  some  years  before  I  had  the  opportunity  to 
play  with  that  in  Art  and  Technology.  The  Icebag  is 
chosen  as  an  object  because  it  has  a  lot  of  rather 
flaccid  material  tied  together  under  a  hard  shape,  so 
that  you  have  a  contrast  between  the  flaccidity  of  the 
material  which  is  always  changing  and  the  hardness  of 
the  top  or  the  cap  which  holds  it,  which  binds  it. 
That  way  you  have  limits  to  how  much  the  material 
can  behave,  which  it  didn't  have  in  these  earlier  ex- 
periments—the fried  egg  of  course  was  all  soft,  but  if 
you  take  a  fried  egg  and  put,  say,  maybe  the  yellow 
part,  a  mirror  or  a  hard  surface,  you'd  have— you'd  be 
on  your  way  to  achieving  an  icebag,  an  icebag  effect. 
So  it's  perhaps  even  suggested  by  handling  a  bag  or 
handling  any  kind  of  material  which  you  would 
bunch  up  and  say  hold  in  your  fist  in  order  to  manage 


it  somewhat  and  then  watch  the  movements  that  you 
would  create  in  it  by  bumping  or  pushing  it  against 
other  surfaces.  And  what  the  cap  does,  it  sort  of  or- 
ganizes the  material  in  a  way  that  gives  it  some  kind 
of  form.  I  mean  I  desired  the  movement  of  material, 
and  the  point  of  the  object  is  just  to  organize  this  sort 
of  thing  in  some  way  so  that  it  can  be  presented. 

The  first  configuration  in  Oldenburg's  art  to  anticipate 
the  Giant  Icebag  is  a  remarkable  watercolor  of  1963, 
Frankfurters  and  Mustard  Cup.  [20]  A  costume  design 
of  artist  conceived  in  1965  also  suggests  the  monumental 


sculpture.  The  Icebag  became  perhaps  the  most  complex 
synthesis  of  associative  forms  Oldenburg  has  made  to 
date.  In  addition  to  the  "fourteen  foot  fried  egg"  Olden- 
burg referred  to  above,  he  has  mentioned  the  following 
images  as  relating  to  the  final  shape  of  the  Icebag: 

the  human  head  (hard  like  the  fiberglass  cap)  and 

body  (soft  as  the  foam  and  vinyl) 

the  Museum's  enormous  vacuum  cleaner  (used  to 

clean  the  concrete  plaza) 

Mount  Fuji 

an  inkwell  bottle 

the  planned  centerpiece  of  Walt  Disney  World  in  Flor- 
ida (a  ride  that  "looks  like  a  white  icebag") 

a  sandbagged  ashtray 

the  artist's  cap  [21] 


20 


267 


A&T 


21 


'> 


\ 


268 


ly   .' 


C^l 


ietains  cold  temperature  extra  long. 


I 


DIRECTIONS 


IruZtci' 


8525.     The  Sponge.   TTpnor  Geyser  Basin,    Yellowstone   National  Park. 


269 


A&T 


22 


domes,  particularly  the  cupola  of  the  Capitol  building 

in  Washington,  D.C. 

moon  craters 

Hollywood  premiere  searchlights 

tomatoes 

breasts  [22] 

the  "universal  concept  of  the  sun" 

the  atomic  bomb 

"The  Sponge,  Upper  Geyser  Basin,  Yellowstone 

National  Park"  [23] 

As  seen  from  above,  the  Icebag  was  further  suggested 
to  Claes  by 

the  poster  for  Expo  70 

a  doughnut 

a  clock 

the  moon's  relationship  to  earth  as  photographed 

by  astronauts 

a  Chinese  cookie 


-^■/ 


f" 


;     . 


In  October,  1970,  as  this  report  goes  to  press,  Oldenburg 
spoke  with  MT  about  his  changed  feelings  in  regard  to 
the  problems  posed  by  Art  and  Technology.  Art,  he  said, 
was  basically  a  "matter  of  childhood,"  while  "technol- 
ogy concerns  adulthood."  His  original  reluctance  to 
interact  with  corporations  had  to  do,  he  now  believes, 
with  the  fears  that  attend  responsibility.  Oldenburg  now 
affirms  the  necessity  to  take  such  responsibility.  He  feels 
that  only  in  this  way  can  a  primary  dilemma  of  our  time 
be  faced:  the  imperative  to  "achieve  harmony  between 
the  two  natures— that  of  the  machine  and  true  organic 
nature."  He  drew  up  a  chart  for  us  to  indicate  the  trans- 
formations an  artist  must  undergo  in  order  to  deal  suc- 
cessfully in  the  corporation-technology  arena: 


Artist  in  Studio 

1.  intolerant 

2.  impatient 

3.  static 

4.  rigid 

5.  inward-looking 

6.  uncooperative 

7.  stingy 

8.  violent 

9.  impulsive 

10.  vindictive-paranoid 

11.  proud 

12.  destructive 
(especially  self) 

13.  compulsive 

14.  unpredictable 

15.  drunk  or  high 
(looking  for  sublimity) 
(custodian  of  the  sublime) 

16.  caprice 

17.  feverish 

18.  magic  applied 
without  reservations 

19.  alienation 

20.  image  of  self 

21.  ease 

22.  God  (identification 
with  nature) 

23.  control 

24.  obsessive  (primitive 
mind) 


Artist  in  Collaborative  Situation 

tolerant 

patient 

mobile 

flexible 

outward-looking 

cooperative 

giving 

restrained 

deliberate 

forgiving 

self-effacing 

constructive 

non-compulsive 
foresighted 
sober  (indifferent 

to  the  sublime, 

like  airplane  pilots) 
perseverance 
calm 
magic  circumspectly 

applied 
participation 
image  of 

more  than  self 
difficulty 
more  difficult 

to  be  God 

(apartness  from  nature) 
leave  be 

(do  not  interfere) 
scientific 

Maurice  Tuchman 


Jules  Olitski 

Born  Gomel,  U.S.S.R.,  1922 
Resident  New  York  City 


270 


Jane  Livingston  met  with  Jules  Olitski  In  New  York  in 
April,  1969,  to  talk  about  A  &  T.  A  new  group  of  elabo- 
rate painted  sculptural  works  by  Olitski  were  at  that 
time  being  shown  at  the  Metropolitan  Museum;  their 
existence  seemed  to  imply  possibilities  for  the  artist's  in- 
terest in  working  with  industry  that  his  paintings  or  past 
sculpture  probably  would  not  have.  JL,  in  her  talk  with 
the  artist,  stressed  the  availability  of  Kaiser  Steel  and 
American  Cement,  basing  this  on  her  feeling  about  the 
Met  exhibition.  Olitski  was  definitely  intrigued  with  par- 
ticular ideas  in  relation  to  his  sculpture.  The  present 
aluminum  works  had  been  made  in  a  factory  in  Connect- 
icut, and  he  was  arranging  to  have  some  works  executed 
in  England,  but  he  was  definitely  open  to  investigating 
other  materials  and  industries  for  a  further  sculptural 
series.  Specifically,  he  mentioned  his  interest  in  finding  a 
way  of  coloring  metals  so  that  they  would  be  impervious 
to  weathering  (obviously  this  was  difficult  to  achieve 
with  ordinary  paints);  he  was  also  thinking  about  making 
environmentally  scaled  sculptures  that  would  have  mov- 
able parts,  so  that  they  could  be  expanded  or  contracted 
laterally,  or  have  vertically  adjustable  ceilings.  He  was 
open  to  considering  various  materials  besides  metal,  such 
as  cement  or  fiberglass. 

In  May,  Olitski  came  to  Los  Angeles.  He  first  toured 
Kaiser  Steel's  Fontana  plant  with  JL.  The  Kaiser  techni- 
cians he  spoke  with  seemed  quite  interested  in  his  propo- 
sals, especially  as  they  were  experimenting  with  certain 


types  of  chemical  treatments  which  work  upon  metal 
surfaces  to  alter  coloration,  and  seemed  to  feel  this 
might  be  applied  to  Olitski's  work.  There  were  revealed, 
however,  distinct  limitations  as  to  the  range  and  inten- 
sity of  the  colors  that  could  be  achieved  by  these 
processes.  Both  the  artist  and  JL  were  rather  skeptical, 
as  well,  about  Kaiser's  ability  to  resolve  the  problem  of 
creating  flexible,  or  rearrangeable,  sculptures,  since  the 
steel  used  would  be  extremely  heavy,  and  would  proba- 
bly require  sophisticated  mechanical  or  hydraulic 
systems  beyond  the  resources  of  Kaiser's  Fontana  plant 
to  engineer. 

The  next  day,  Olitski  visited  American  Cement's  River- 
side Technical  Center  with  Hal  Glicksman.  The  artist 
met  with  American  Cement's  Dr.  Geoffrey  Frohnsdorff, 
Manager  of  the  Technical  Center,  and  Kenneth  Daugher- 
ty,  and  toured  the  facility.  After  these  two  corporation 
visits,  Olitski  returned  to  New  York.  From  his  view  of 
American  Cement  and  his  discussions  with  Frohnsdorff, 
he  felt  that  this  company  offered  him  more  interesting 
possibilities  than  Kaiser,  and  once  back  in  his  studio,  he 
proceeded  to  make  a  series  of  four  models  for  sculptures 
which  might  be  fabricated,  at  least  partially,  in  cement. 
[1,  2,  3,  4]  On  May  20,  American  Cement's  structural 
engineer  Dr.  Samuel  Aroni  spent  several  hours  with  the 
artist  at  the  request  of  Frohnsdorff  to  discuss  a  project. 
Aroni,  who  had  previously  been  closely  involved  with  us 
and  Jean  Dubuffet  when  we  were  attempting  to  arrange 


271 


A&T 


a  match  between  American  Cement  and  the  French 
artist,  met  Olitski  at  the  IVletropolitan  IVIuseum  to  see  the 
artist's  sculpture  exhibition  there,  and  was  impressed 
with  the  worl<.  He  then  returned  to  New  York  in  June, 
and  visited  Olitski  at  his  studio,  where  they  looked  at 
the  new  models  and  considered  the  problem  of  how  they 
might  be  structurally  executed.  This  question,  however, 
became  secondary  in  importance  to  the  question  of 
coloring  the  works.  In  his  previous  paintings  and  sculp- 
tures, Olitski  had  mixed  color  by  spray  painting  surfaces 
with  various  hues,  mixing  color  in  a  given  area  by  apply- 
ing one  color  at  a  time,  in  layers  of  varying  density. 
Aroni  had  been  working  for  two  years  with  colored  syn- 
thetic aggregates  made  of  cement  sand,  which  could  be 
premixed  in  combinations  of  different  hues,  and  then 
applied,  perhaps  onto  a  resin  matrix,  with  a  spray  gun. 
This  process,  allowing  as  it  did  for  mixed  colors  to  be 
applied  simultaneously,  rather  than  one  at  a  time  in 
separate  layers,  seemed  to  offer  a  new  approach  for 
Olitski.  Aroni  and  Olitski  talked  about  making  the  sculp- 
tural components  not  of  cement  but  of  molded  fiber- 
glass, applying  a  resin  matrix,  and  then  coloring  the 
surfaces  by  Aroni's  method.  They  agreed  that  they 
should  first  experiment  with  flat  surfaces— create  paint- 
ings, in  other  words— before  fabricating  molded  plastic 
units  for  large  sculptures.  Aroni  had  brought  with  him 
samples  of  the  synthetic  aggregates  in  various  colors; 
Olitski  felt  that  the  red,  blue  and  green  hues  shown  to 
him  would  be  satisfactory  exactly  as  they  existed,  but 


that  they  should  develop  brown,  yellow  and  black  aggre- 
gates specially,  and  also  use  natural  aggregates,  in  white 
and  other  colors. 

Aroni  returned  to  California  feeling  extremely  enthusias- 
tic about  the  artist's  proposals,  but  somewhat  concerned 
about  American  Cement's  willingness  to  support  the 
project  fully.  He  later  said  that  the  problem  lay  not  in 
the  company's  disapproving  the  artist  or  his  work— on 
the  contrary,  the  proposal  was  felt  to  be  eminently  ap- 
propriate to  American  Cement's  technology  and  estheti- 
cally  appealing— but  in  the  corporation's  current  paraly- 
sis for  reasons  of  an  internal  political  shake-up.  Olitski 
had  suggested  that  Aroni  telephone  his  friend  Robert 
Rowan  in  Pasadena— Rowan  is  a  serious  art  collector, 
and  owns  many  of  Olitski's  works— to  enlist  his  support 
of  the  project  in  presenting  it  to  the  company  manage- 
ment. Aroni  learned  that  Mr.  Rowan's  brother  was  a 
member  of  American  Cement's  board,  which  seemed  a 
fortuitous  connection.  After  discussing  this  with  MT, 
Rowan  cooperated  in  recommending  through  his  brother 
that  the  Olitski  project  be  undertaken  by  the  company, 
and  we  emphasized  our  keen  enthusiasm  about  the 
potential  collaboration.  Unfortunately,  as  a  result  of  the 
political  reorganization  within  the  company,  its  commit- 
ment to  A  &  T  was  ignored  by  the  new  administration. 
We  then  made  an  intensive  effort  to  solicit  the  coopera- 
tion of  Owens-Corning  specifically  for  the  Olitski 
project,  but  were  unsuccessful. 


Eduardo  Paolozzi 

Born  Edinburgh,  Scotland,  1924 
Resident  London 


272 


Eduardo  Paolozzi  was  visited  in  London  by  MT  in  Octo- 
ber, 1968.  When  A  &  T  was  described  to  Paolozzi  on 
that  occasion,  he  responded  by  expressing  interest  in 
working  with  computers.  His  work  at  that  time  was 
involved  in  computer-generated  imagery,  and  thus  it  was 
natural  that  he  should  wish  to  develop  these  ideas.  In 
Paolozzi's  letter  to  us  of  October  30,  he  spoke  about  the 
areas  he  visualized  pursuing: 

It  is  my  intention  of  bringing  a  portfolio  of  schemes 
in  connection  with  the  Los  Angeles  show.  These 
schemes  are  an  extension  of  work  concerning  images 
and  words  (ref :  the  Berkeley  catalogue;  Christopher 
Finch's  book  Art  and  Objects). 

You  may  realize  that  I  did  a  certain  amount  of  com- 
puter research  while  at  Berkeley,  but  the  Art  Depart- 
ment there  was  unable  to  extend  any  of  these  ideas— 
which  certainly  could  be  realized  within  the  frame- 
work that  we  discussed  in  London  during  your  visit. 

At  the  moment,  I  have  an  assistant  working  on  colour 
mosaics  and  endless  permutations  on  the  grid  pattern. 
This  is  according  to  my  interpretation  of  current 
computer  literature  and  can  be  used  in  connection 
with  sound  experiments.  Also  the  reverse,  I  under- 
stand, is  possible;  which  is,  sounds  can  be  used  to 
create  patterns. 

The  feasibility  of  the  theory  of  these  programmes 
require  an  electronic  design  engineer  for  further  com- 
ment, and  this  particular  auxiliary  is  being  investi- 
gated at  this  moment. 

Next  week,  a  visit  is  planned  to  the  Computer 
Division  of  the  Ferranti  empire,  the  particular  study 
here  is  numerical  control  machines  and  their  particu- 
lar computer-aided  design  programme  .... 

Following  this  letter,  we  sent  Paolozzi  literature  on  In- 
formation International.  Paolozzi  arranged  to  fly  to  Los 
Angeles  for  a  week  in  January,  1969,  to  visit  companies. 
By  the  time  he  arrived,  IBIVI  was  tentatively  available  for 
an  artist  match  (though  they  were  still  considering 
Vasarely's  proposal),  so  we  scheduled  visits  to  their  Los 
Angeles  headquarters,  to  Information  International  and 
also  to  Wyle  Laboratories.  The  tour  to  Information  In- 
ternational was  unproductive.  For  various  technical 
reasons,  Paolozzi  felt  that  their  capabilities  in  computer 
graphics  would  not  be  of  use  to  him.  The  situation  at 
IBM  was  somewhat  more  complicated.  Paolozzi  first 
toured  their  downtown  Los  Angeles  offices  and  saw 
various  advanced  computers  demonstrated;  the  next  day, 
he  met  again  with  Dr.  David  Heggie,  our  IBM  contact 
man,  and  we  discussed  the  possibility  of  touring  IBM's 
huge  San  Jose  plant.  This  meeting  was  difficult  for 
everyone  involved.  Somehow  Paolozzi  did  not  feel  that 
Heggie  or  IBM  either  understood  his  intentions  or  were 


really  prepared  to  offer  him  the  kind  of  freedom  or  the 
degree  of  access  to  their  personnel  and  hardware  that  he 
required— though  the  corporation  was  equipped  techni- 
cally to  deal  with  whatever  demands  the  artist  might 
make  in  the  area  of  computer  graphics.  On  the  evening 
after  this  encounter,  Paolozzi  telephoned  Jane  Living- 
ston from  his  hotel  and  explained  to  her  that  he  saw  no 
point  in  touring  the  San  Jose  facility  or  bothering 
further  with  IBM.  Paolozzi  then  visited  Wyle  Laborator- 
ies. He  was  interviewed  by  the  company's  president, 
Frank  Wyle  [1]  ;  Gail  Scott  wrote  the  following  memo 
recounting  this  event  and  later  discussion: 


GS  went  with  E.  Paolozzi  to  Wyle  Labs  for  interview 
with  Frank  Wyle.  Wyle's  first  take  was  that  Paolozzi 
should  be  exposed  to  many  facilities  for  first  week 
and  try  to  absorb  the  diversity  of  technologies  avail- 
able. He  suggested  making  a  sculpture  using  'birefring- 
ence' flow-pattern  technology  which  has  a  very 
impressive  visual  effect  [2] .  Size  is  no  limitation;  it's 
merely  a  question  of  learning  the  principles  of  the 
technology  and  then  working  out  the  mechanics  of 
the  construction— which  can  be  done  anywhere.  Bire- 
fringence consists  basically  of  sheets  of  semi-transpar- 
ent polarized  screens  through  which  a  closed-loop 
liquid  circulation  system  is  channeled.  (The  liquid  is 
water  with  an  additive  which  causes  the  birefringence 
effect.)  An  internal,  monochromatic  light  source  is 
used  which  is  modulated  and  changed  according  to 
certain  flow  principles  of  the  liquid  as  it  is  pumped 
through  the  channels.  Eric  Miller,  a  physicist  at  the 
Huntsville  facility,  is  the  authority  on  the  subject. 

Paolozzi  was  interested  in  this  possibility,  but  still 
would  like  to  work  with  computer  graphics.  However, 


273 


A&T 


in  a  meeting  with  MT,  Paolozzi,  JL  and  BA  on  Janu- 
ary 17,  it  was  decided  that  because  of  the  problems 
with  Vasarely  and  IBM,  it  would  be  best  for  Paolozzi 
to  concentrate  on  working  something  out  at  Wyle. 
Paolozzi  is  not  interested  particularly  in  another 
'Howard  Wise-type'  visually  interesting  sculpture,  but 
wants  to  penetrate  to  something  more  meaningful.  He 
is  willing  to  pursue  the  possibilities  available  at  Wyle, 
provided  he  can  get  an  informed  corporate  person  to 
give  him  an  extensive  tour  of  their  facilities  when  he 
returns  in  March  to  begin  work.  I  suggested  that 
Kenneth  Eldred,  whom  Paolozzi  and  I  met  yesterday, 
and  who  is  Director  of  Research,  managing  all 
research  activities  at  the  Labs,  would  be  an  ideal  con- 
tact man.  Wyle  said  that  Eldred  is  'the  most  creative 
person  around  here.' 

Paolozzi  seemed  undecided  when  he  left  Los  Angeles 
about  the  medium— birefringence,  or  binary  infraction— 
with  which  he  was  encouraged  to  experiment  by  Frank 
Wyle.  He  was  still  reluctant  to  abandon  his  idea  for 
working  with  computers,  but  apparently  he  became  in- 
creasingly intrigued,  as  he  later  thought  about  it,  with 
the  notion  of  using  a  technique  entirely  new  to  him  and 
unrelated  to  his  past  work.  In  any  event,  he  wrote  to  us 
in  February,  saying  that  he  would  be  sending  an  assist- 
ant, James  Kirkwood,  to  Los  Angeles  before  he  himself 
could  come  from  London,  and  he  indicated  his  willing- 
ness to  work  at  Wyle  Laboratories.  Hal  Glicksman  wrote 
this  memo  after  touring  Wyle  with  Paolozzi: 

Met  with  Frank  Wyle  and  Harry  Greybill  to  view 
working  space  and  see  demonstration  of  effect  that 
Paolozzi  would  utilize.  Space  was  located  on  upper 
floor  at  northeast  corner  of  the  lab  complex.  Rather 
an  elaborate  route  from  the  entrance.  Space  is  a 
separate  room  about  15  x  20  feet,  drafting  table 
along  one  wall,  separate  desk  and  work  table. 
Paolozzi  plans  to  move  in  March  18,  10  A.M. 

Viewed  demonstration:  A  special  liquid  dye  changes 
color  under  polarized  light  according  to  the  speed  at 
which  it  is  flowing.  Thus  the  rate  of  flow  of  liquids  in 
a  system  of  plastic  pipe  is  graphically  illustrated  by 
rainbow  hues  in  the  liquid.  Corners,  bends,  constric- 
tions, and  irregularities  in  the  pipe  all  cause  brilliantly 
colored  turbulence  to  appear  in  the  liquid.  The  fastest 
flowing  parts  are  bright  yellow,  the  slowest  parts 
green.  The  entire  system  can  be  slowed  down  with  a 
master  valve  that  causes  all  the  liquid  to  darken  and 
shift  color  toward  the  green.  The  system  when  com- 
pletely shut  down  is  an  almost  opaque,  dark  green. 
Elaborate  pipe  systems  can  be  simulated  by  cutting  a 
pattern  out  of  a  flat  sheet  of  plexiglass  and  sandwich- 
ing it  between  two  solid  sheets.  The  liquid  flows  in 
the  cut  out  spaces. 

Paolozzi  and  Kirkwood  worked  daily  at  Wyle  for  about 
three  weeks,  consulting  with  several  technicians  who 


Otto  Piene 

Born  Laasphe,  Germany,  1928 
Resident  New  York  City 


274 


advised  them  about  the  capabilities  of  chromatic  control 
which  could  be  obtained  with  the  polarized  fluids.  A 
table  was  set  up  with  a  sort  of  flat  tank  set  on  it,  into 
which  dyes  were  pumped  under  polarized  plastic  sheets. 
Paolozzi  was  able  to  determine  by  observing  the  flow 
patterns  under  various  conditions  in  his  apparatus  what 
he  might  be  able  to  achieve  on  a  larger  scale.  He  visual- 
ized making  a  wall  of  color  patterns,  and  thought  of  in- 
corporating some  sort  of  mechanism  whereby  spectators 
could  themselves  manipulate  the  color  patterns  either  by 
"playing"  a  console,  or  simply  by  walking  in  front  of  the 
structure.  The  more  he  worked  with  the  device,  how- 
ever, the  less  confident  he  became  that  the  medium  was 
worth  developing  into  an  art  work.  He  also  felt  that  the 
environment  at  Wyle  was  constricting  to  him,  and  he 
sensed  that  he  was  being  "railroaded,"  to  use  his  word, 
into  a  narrow  and  unreasonably  specific  area,  when  he 
would  have  liked  to  freely  explore  the  complex  of  build- 
ings around  him  and  conceivably  make  use  of  other 
resources  available  at  Wyle. 


See  Stockhausen  section,  page  322 


On  April  4,  MT  sent  Frank  Wyle  the  following  letter, 
terminating  the  Paolozzi/Wyle  collaboration: 

I  have  been  informed  by  Eduardo  Paolozzi  that  he 
will  not  be  able  to  continue  his  'residence'  at  Wyle 
Laboratories.  The  artist  believes  that  only  work  of 
insufficient  value  could  result  from  the  collaboration. 
Paolozzi  feels  that  the  only  area  at  Wyle  made  avail- 
able to  him  concerned  binary  infraction,  and  that  this 
area,  as  interesting  as  it  is  technically,  is  not  fecund 
ground  for  his  personal  aesthetic.  He  also  indicated  to 
me  that  his  attempts  to  make  something  in  this  area 
were  hampered  by  various  restrictions  placed  on  the 
scope  and  scale  of  his  involvement;  means  of  imple- 
mentation were,  in  Paolozzi's  opinion,  too  restrictive 
to  allow  for  success. 

I  very  much  regret  that  this  collaborative  effort  has 
failed.  It  is  the  first  time  a  contracted  artist  and  a 
Patron  Sponsor  Corporation  have  not  been  able  to 
work  out  a  satisfactory  relationship.  I  tried  to  contact 
you  when  this  situation  developed  last  week  in  an 
attempt  to  ward  off  the  problem.  Perhaps  we  should 
discuss  this  matter,  at  your  convenience,  in  order  to 
prepare  for  future  involvements  with  artists.  Since  we 
regard  Wyle  Laboratories  as  one  of  the  most  extraor- 
dinary of  the  thirty-one  corporations  joining  with  us 
in  this  program,  we  are  especially  eager  to  have  a  valu- 
able situation  develop. 


HG  took  Paolozzi  to  both  Cal  Comp  and  to  TRW  Sys- 
tems before  the  artist  returned  to  London.  Paolozzi  and 
TRW  agreed  to  work  on  a  computer  graphic  project;  the 
artist  would  send  the  company  drawings  and  instructions 
by  mail  from  London  for  them  to  program  and  com- 
pute. We  have  not  been  able  to  ascertain  from  Paolozzi 
whether  work  is  indeed  progressing  at  this  time. 


Pulsa 


A&T 


Michael  Cain  wrote  to  us  for  Pulsa,  a  team  of  "research- 
ers in  programmed  environments,"  in  April,  1969: 
Pulsa  proposes  to  realize  for  the  L.A.  Museum  an 
environment  sensitive  to  aspects  of  its  own  condition 
through  an  input  system  integrated  into  our  existing 
outputs  and  controls  capable  of  receiving  and  inter- 
preting many  kinds  of  information  from  its  surround- 
ings. In  the  past  we  have  developed  a  variety  of 
instrumentation  for  generating  and  outputting  infor- 
mation as  perceptible  wave  energies  and  are  most 
recently  involved  in  the  design  and  programming  of 
large  scale  outdoor  matrices  of  strobe  lights  and  loud 
speakers.  It  has  long  been  our  goal  to  feedback  infor- 
mation from  the  environment  of  the  matrix  to  the 
matrix  as  its  program. 


We  feel  fortunate  in  having  an  opportunity  to  do  re- 
search on  environmental  sensors  in  L.A.  where  the 
special  manmade  ecology  is  provoking  such  attentive 
environmental  studies,  and  are  convinced  that  local 
industries  will  be  eminently  capable  of  helping  us 
realize  our  project.  We  wish  to  consider  acoustical, 
optical  and  infrared,  radio,  and  radar  scanning  devices 
as  means  of  designing  sensors  capable  of  determining 
the  behavior  and  distribution  of  persons,  animals  and 
plants,  local  air  and  temperature  conditions,  ambient 
light  and  sound,  and  the  outputs  of  the  system  itself. 
These  sensors  will  require  interface  and  software  to 
adjoin  them  to  the  small  tandem  time-shared  com- 
puter with  which  we  intend  to  be  controlling  all  of 
our  future  installations.  We  should  like  to  work  on 
this  proposal  with  Information  International,  R.C.A., 
Litton  Industries,  T.R.W.,  and  especially  Gilphilin, 
for  help  in  acquiring  a  radar  system. 


Our  proposal  for  L.A.  would  entail  using  these  infor- 
mation input  devices  in  a  large  space,  hopefully  a 
square  mile  of  open  land,  in  association  with  a  pro- 
grammable matrix  consisting  of  128  strobe  lights  and 
an  equal  number  of  loudspeakers  in  an  array  con- 
formed to  the  site.  This  system  should  be  extant  and 
available  for  presentation  during  the  L.A.  show  after 
its  initial  fabrication  and  installation  in  the  World's 
Fair  at  Osaka.  A  Digital  Equipment  Corporation 
PDP-8  computer  and  Grason-Stadler  multiplexer  with 
five  input-output  stations  would  accept  information 
from  the  sensors  and  from  a  teletypewriter  and  gener- 
ate patterns  and  sequences.  This  information  would 
be  transmitted  to  a  second  computer,  a  General  Auto- 
mation SPC-12  and  there  expanded  into  specific 
instructions  to  a  signal  synthesizer  and  to  the  output 
devices  which  would  be  digitally  controlled.  By  the 
spring  of  1970  our  previous  presentations  in  Central 
Park,  the  Guggenheim  Museum,  and  Osaka  will  have 
given  us  facility  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  very 
great  flexibility  of  this  system. 

If  other  industries  are  willing  to  donate  the  time  and 
money  for  collaboration  on  a  second  proposal,  we 
should  use  the  opportunity  to  experiment  with 
sources  of  light  and  improve  further  our  design  for 
output  devices. 

The  ideal  device  would  include  a  source  of  light  digi- 
tally controlled  and  widely  variable  in  intensity, 
duration,  and  spectrum.  Gas  discharge  tubes,  fluores- 
cents,  incandescents,  electroluminescent  panels,  phos- 
phors and  fluorescent  pigments,  and  chemilumines 
cent  materials  have  all  been  useful  to  us  but  none 
have  been  fully  satisfactory.  We  should  welcome 
assistance  from  Union  Carbide  and  International 
Chemical  and  Nuclear  among  others. 


Jeff  Raskin 

Born  Brooklyn,  New  York,  1943 
Resident  Solana  Beach,  California 


276 


Jeff  Raskin  is  an  artist  and  Assistant  Professor  of  Art  at 
UCSD  where  he  also  heads  a  new  computer  center  for 
the  Visual  Arts  Department.  He  was  recommended  to  us 
by  his  teaching  colleagues,  David  Antin  and  Harold 
Cohen,  because  of  a  concept  for  a  building  module  he 
wanted  to  design  and  fabricate.  We  gave  him  literature 
on  Container  Corporation  and  Eldon  Industries,  a  Los 
Angeles  toy  manufacturing  company.  On  March  12 
Raskin  and  Hal  Glicksman  toured  the  two  companies, 
after  which  the  artist  wrote  a  formal  proposal: 

The  basic  output  is  to  be  a  construction  module,  or  at 
most  two  modules  whose  dimensions  are  larger  than  4 
inches  and  less  than  20  inches  in  all  directions.  The 
module  will  fold  flat  for  storage  and  transportation, 
and  will  be  easily  set  up,  and  taken  down.  Each  unit, 
of  cardboard  or  clear  plastic,  will  interlock  with 
adjacent  units  in  a  large  variety  of  ways. 

The  principal  work  of  art  proposed  here  is  a  sculpture 
or  environment  approximately  10  by  20  by  30  feet 
made  exclusively  of  these  modules.  The  object  might 
be  a  house.  While  the  module  could  be  of  cardboard, 
at  best  it  would  be  of  clear  plastic,  polyethelene  or 
styrene.  In  the  latter  case,  it  is  possible  that  the 
module  will  not  fold,  but  be  watertight  so  that  each 
unit  could  be  filled  with  colored  or  uncolored  liquids, 
liquid  crystals,  powders  or  objects. 

The  exact  shape  and  design  of  the  module  will  (and 
can  only)  be  determined  by  working  with  the  com- 
pany finally  chosen.  Problems  of  manufacture  will 
influence  the  nature  of  the  module.  In  fact  part  of 
the  fascination  of  this  project  is  working  within  and 
around  the  technical  nuances  of  the  industry. 

Later  Raskin  elaborated  on  the  concept,  explaining  its 
derivation  and  rationale,  and  its  potential  as  a  building 
unit: 

I  like  to  play  with  toys  a  lot  and  I've  always  been 
frustrated  with  building  sets.  They  always  have  some 
direction  in  which  they're  heading.  I  remember  when 
I  was  a  kid  in  New  York  and  we  decided  to  build  our 
own  house,  and  I  got  this  plastic  block  set.  It  was 
very  suitable  for  building  a  model— like  a  scale  model 
of  the  house.  But  it  only  allowed  the  bricks  to  be  laid 
on  top  of  one  another  in  normal  brick-like  staggered 
fashion.  If  you  suddenly  wanted  to  go  out  from  one 
wall  at  right  angles  to  it,  you  couldn't  do  it  at  all. 
More  recent  brick  sets  are  made  so  that  if  you  find 
the  right  p/ece,  you  might  be  able  to  make  projec- 
tions from  a  square  wall,  or  make  something  free 
standing  or  arching  over.  Each  set  of  bricks  or 
Lincoln  logs  always  had  some  particular  genre  of 
construction  in  mind.  I  had  settled  on  actual  simple 
cubes  of  wood  or  metal  or  plastic.  I  made  myself  such 
a  building  set  out  of  clear  plastic  cubes.  They  simply 
stack,  but  at  least  there  was  no  restriction;  they 


didn't  have  any  sense  of  direction  built  into  them 
aside  from  the  rectangularness.  I  like  the  rectangular- 
ness  (basic  square  rooms  seem  eminently  practical). 
Building  things  at  right  angles  doesn't  seem  to  be 
much  of  a  hang-up  for  me.  I  wanted  the  most  general 
block  that  I  could  have;  any  two  blocks  would  have 
to  be  able  to  attach  together  firmly  so  that  they 
could  be  self-supporting  over  a  small  span;  larger 
spans  requiring  additional  structure.  They  would  have 
to  not  be  limited  to  flat  walls,  but  any  block  would 
have  to,  on  any  face,  be  attachable  to  any  other 
block.  No  other  block  set  comes  anywhere  close  to 
that.  This  would  allow  you  to  build  an  absolutely 
solid,  completely  interlocked  cube.  To  make  this 
perfectly  general,  I  spent  some  time  finding  out  if 
there's  any  way  to  make  a  hermaphrodite  connector 
that  could  be  both  male  and  female  so  that  every  face 
of  every  block  would  snap  together.  If  I  had  one  of 
those  sets,  I'd  enjoy  building  with  it  more  than  any 
other  set  I've  ever  seen.  Furthermore,  a  two  to  five 
centimeter  size  block  is  fine  for  building  models,  but 
I'd  also  like  to  have  a  larger  set  of  blocks  twelve 
inches  across  or  one  quarter  meter,  and  you  could  use 
these  things  for  architecture,  building  wall  partitions, 
for  bu'M'mq  buildings.  If  they  are  made  out  of  plastic 
like  Delrin,  they  would  be  strong  enough  to  build 
stairs  and  a  few  structural  members.  If  I  violated  my 
principles  only  slightly  and  glued  some  of  them  to- 
gether you  could  make  quite  large  structures.  I  rather 
like  to  be  able  to  take  whatever  one  makes  apart  and 
rearrange  it  as  the  need  changes.  I  envisage  (and 
would  probably  build  for  myself)  a  house,  a  garage. 
They  would  be  relatively  light  also.  Because  they  are 
hollow,  if  you  needed  weight,  they  could  be  filled 
with  sand,  fluids,  plastic.  Cubes  can  come  apart  into 
two  symmetrical  pieces,  each  being  three  sides  of  a 
corner.  And  so  you  can  stack  very  compactly;  you 
can  take  a  building  and  put  it  into  a  hundredth  of  its 
space,  or  even  less  than  that,  and  transport  all  the 
parts  economically.  It's  a  practical  thing  as  well  as  a 
nice  thing.  If  you  then  took  certain  blocks  and  modi- 
fied them  (although  that's  not  very  pure  of  me)  by 
drilling  holes  in  the  sides,  you  could  have  all  the 
plumbing  running  through  the  wall;  you  could  see  it 
all.  (Although  certain  kinds  of  plumbing  I  guess  you 
would  want  to  have  running  through  the  walls.)  You 
could  have  a  fish  tank  built  in  the  wall;  with  some 
blocks  clear  and  some  full  of  sand,  you  could  have 
windows.  You  could  move  the  windows  around  by 
shaking  the  sand  out  of  one  and  now  the  window  is 
there.  I  would  have  all  the  blocks  clear,  but  if  you  do 
want  an  opaque  wall,  you  would  spray  paint  the 
inside  or  the  outside.  I  like  large  things:  I  don't  know 
why  because  I  like  miniature  things  too.  You  had 
some  of  my  favorite  miniature  things  here  in  the 
Cloisters  exhibition— a  little  wooden  model  with  a 
whole  battle  scene  inside.  Working  on  that  scale  has 


277 


A&T 


always  fascinated  me,  and  I  build  an  awful  lot  of 
ultra-miniature  things,  but  I've  never  exhibited  them. 
First  of  all  because  it  would  take  hours  of  educating 
people  to  see  what  I'm  seeing;  nobody's  adjusted  to 
looking  at  things  that  way.  There's  another  thing, 
though,  about  being  able  to  walk  around  in  stuff. 
That's  nothing  new;  everyone  has  done  that  who's 
working  with  environments.  The  last  mazes  show  I 
had  at  UCSD  left  so  many  avenues  to  be  explored— 
literally  and  figuratively.  I  want  to  explore  some  of 
those  with  the  clear  blocks.  If  I  were  to  build  a  thing 
that  was  contorted,  perhaps  not  really  a  labyrinth  so 
that  you  could  be  six  inches  from  somebody  on  the 
other  side  of  a  set  of  blocks  and  still  be  a  half  hour's 
walk  from  them.  I  would  like  to  do  something  on 
that  scale.  And  the  idea  fascinates  me  of  having  iden- 
tical rooms  in  different  places,  so  that  you  can't  tell  if 
you're  in  Room  A  or  Room  B.  You  think  you  come 
back  to  the  same  place  but  it's  really  different.  The 
room  merely  looks  the  same.  I'd  like  to  explore 
things  like  that. 

In  May,  after  Raskin  had  made  a  prototype  unit  [1] ,  we 
arranged  further  meetings  at  Eldon  with  an  engineer. 
Tony  Smith  was  already  working  with  Container  Corpor- 
ation of  America,  and  since  Raskin's  first  option  was  to 
fabricate  the  module  in  clear  plastic,  we  proceeded  with 
Eldon.  On  July  23  we  met  with  Robert  Silverstein,  presi- 
dent of  the  company,  to  describe  the  piece  in  greater 
detail  and  to  discuss  the  feasibility  of  executing  the 
modules.  Silverstein  agreed  to  project  a  cost  analysis  and 


intimated  that  on  the  basis  of  that  estimate,  Eldon 
would  proceed  to  fabricate  the  units.  Shortly  after  this 
meeting,  however,  Silverstein's  office  called  to  say  that 
Eldon  declined  to  take  on  the  project  because  it  was  too 
expensive  for  them. 

We  then  approached  Dart  Industries,  which  had  previ- 
ously considered  a  proposal  by  John  Chamberlain. 
Raskin's  proposal  received  careful  and  enthusiastic  study 
by  Dart  designers.  However  it  was  again  rejected  by 
management  as  being  too  expensive.  For  several  weeks 
after  that,  we  pursued  the  fabrication  problem  else- 
where, at  various  local  plastic  manufacturing  firms,  but 
without  success.  In  September,  1970,  we  made  a  last 


278 


attempt  to  carry  out  the  project.  Much  earlier  in  the 
program,  we  had  invited  Mattel  Toys,  Inc.  to  join  A  &  T 
but  they  refused,  not  wishing  an  artist  in  residence  at  the 
company  for  twelve  weeks  because  of  its  tight  security 
regulations.  Nevertheless  we  approached  Elliott  Handler, 
Mattel's  president,  once  again  to  explain  that  Raskin's 
project  was  completely  planned  and  would  not  necessi- 
tate a  lengthy  collaborative  period.  Raskin  described  to 


Jack  Barcus  of  Mattel's  design  department  the  unique- 
ness of  his  module.  Although  the  work  was  not  market- 
able from  the  company's  point  of  view  (as  a  toy,  it  was 
too  expensive),  they  expressed  definite  interest  but  did 
not  take  action  on  it.  Late  in  October,  1970,  Raskin 
re-designed  the  module  for  fabrication  in  cardboard  or 
other  similar  material,  with  the  end-view  of  effecting  an 
economical  production.  [2] 


Robert  Rauschenberg 

Born  Port  Arthur,  Texas,  1925 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


Bob  Rauschenberg's  collaboration  with  Teledyne  began 
in  September,  1968,  after  a  tour  of  the  company  in  Los 
Angeles,  has  continued  over  a  two-year  period,  and  is  at 
present  still  in  the  final  stages  of  completion.  It  has 
perhaps  been  longer  in  process  than  any  other  project  in 
the  A&T  program,  and  has  been  characterized  by  brief 
moments  of  intense  interaction  between  Bob  and  Tele- 
dyne  personnel  (principally  Frank  LaHaye,  Vice-Presi- 
dent [1  at  right] ,  and  Lewis  Ellmore,  Director  of 
Special  Programs)  and  long  intermittent  periods  of 
inactivity  or  company  fabrication  in  the  artist's  absence. 
There  was  never  an  extended  residence  period  by  the 
artist.  The  reason  for  this  slow  evolution  was  not, 
however,  due  to  lack  of  enthusiasm  by  anyone  involved. 
From  the  start  Teledyne  was  eager  to  accommodate 
Rauschenberg  and  his  project  proposals;  for  his  part. 
Bob  was  always  willing  to  make  himself  available  when 
some  aspect  of  the  project  required  his  attention. 

In  a  series  of  meetings  during  Rauschenberg's  initial  visit 
in  September,  1968,  the  artist  was  introduced  to  several 
key  executives  at  Teledyne's  head  office  in  Century 
City— George  Roberts,  President,  and  Vice-Presidents 
Frank  LaHaye  and  Berkeley  Baker,  all  of  whom  were 
acquainted  with  Bob's  work.  At  this  time  the  company 
agreed  to  accept  the  artist  in  residence,  and  additional 
meetings  were  held  with  Lewis  Ellmore,  who  was  asked 
to  assist  in  the  collaboration.  Ellmore  later  recounted 


this  first  interview  with  Bob  in  a  letter  to  us  dated 

November  12,  1970; 

We  had  an  absolutely  fascinating  discussion  over 
lunch,  and  both  Bob  and  I  became  entranced  with 
the  possibilities  available.  We  really  had  not  the 
slightest  idea  as  to  what  form  the  project  should  take, 
but  Bob's  thesis  was  that,  after  all,  art  is  creative 
manipulation  of  materials  and  processes,  and  there 
appeared  to  be  a  great  many  new  developments  in 
technology  to  be  exploited.  All  this  sounded  quite 
good;  the  difficulty  seemed  to  lie  in  the  fact  that  the 
typical  artist  had  neither  access  to,  nor  full  under- 
standing of  advanced  technology  and  the  artistic 
ability  of  the  average  technician  or  scientist  is  vanish- 
ingly  small.  Thus,  the  combination  of  Bob  and  me 
with  the  resources  of  Teledyne. 

At  that  first  luncheon  it  became  obvious  that  Bob 
was  certainly  not  a  typical  artist,  and  I  grew  increas- 
ingly enthusiastic;  more,  I  suspect,  about  the  prospect 
of  working  with  Bob  than  about  the  project  in 
general,  since  it  seemed  to  me  that  any  contribution  I 
could  make  would  be  insignificant  compared  to  the 
artistic  creativity  injected  by  Bob.  It  also  appeared 
that  we  could  work  together  easily  since  we  shared 
a  .  .  .  sincere  belief  that  although  life  was  pretty  grim, 
it  was  possible  to  improve  it.  So,  amidst  a  pledge  of 
assistance  and  dedication  of  resources  from  Teledyne, 


280 


we  parted,  the  first  step  to  be  the  exchange  of  letters 
between  Bob  and  me,  each  expressing  an  initial 
viewpoint. 

In  December,  LaHaye  and  Ellmore  met  again  with  Bob 
in  his  New  York  studio,  visited  the  iVluseum  of  IVlodern 
Art  to  see  Rauschenberg's  piece  Soundings  currently  on 
exhibition  there,  and  resumed  their  discussion  on  the 
project.  In  the  same  letter  cited  above  Ellmore  recapitu- 
lated this  and  subsequent  meetings: 

The  meetings  we  had  were  refreshingly  informal  and  a 
genuine  pleasure.  Bob's  goal  was  to  create  a  dynamic 
work,  which  not  only  would  stimulate  more  than  just 
the  visual  senses,  but  would  in  fact  interact  with  the 
observer.  He  had  pioneered  in  this  field  and  was  at 
that  time  exhibiting  his  Soundings  at  the  New  York 
Museum  of  Modern  Art.  He  felt  that  that  represented 
a  direction  to  be  further  pursued,  and  we,  over  the 
next  several  months,  exchanged  many  thoughts  and 
ideas.  Fundamentally,  Bob  wanted  to  escape  from  the 
limitations  of  two  dimensions  and  to  couple  the 
work,  in  a  way  yet  to  be  defined,  to  the  observer.  My 
role  in  all  this  was  really  as  technical  censor,  if  you 
will,  serving  only  to  comment  on  the  technical 
feasibility  of  what  Bob  wanted  to  do  ...  . 

We  considered  many  types  of  three-dimensional 
displays  ranging  from  mixing  air  currents  made  visible 
by  thermal  differentials,  to  closed  loop  machining 
systems  where  the  output  of  the  machine  was  subse- 
quently modified  and  fed  back  into  the  input.  We 
considered  fluids  of  various  types  flowing,  mixing, 
and  in  general  doing  all  sorts  of  things.  We  considered 
different  geometries,  materials,  methods  of  manipula- 
tion and  alteration,  and,  overall,  just  about  everything 
one  can  conceive  of.  We  thought  about  the  types  and 
forms  of  energy,  which  could  be  sensed  and  used  to 
activate  and  regulate  the  dynamics  of  the  work. 
Again,  everything  from  deliberate  and  direct  observer 
control  to  purely  random  processes.  We  included 
sound,  light,  motion,  odor,  etc.,  etc.  At  one  time  we 
looked  into  actually  being  able  to  sense  the  mental 
state  of  the  observer,  but  while  theoretically  possible, 
it  seemed  to  be  a  bit  advanced  in  terms  of  actually 
implementing  it. 

We  went  on  to  explore  ways  of  stimulating  the 
observer,  not  only  visually,  but  with  both  audible  and 
non-audible  sounds,  pressure  differentials  and  so  on. 
Finally,  we  looked  into  means  of  selectively  creating 
emotional  responses  in  an  observer  and,  in  fact,  of 
using  these  emotions  to  further  modify  the  art. 

We  had,  by  this  time,  started  to  vaguely  define  the 
limits  within  which  we  would  operate,  and  started  to 
formulate  ideas  in  terms  of  the  materials  and  technol- 
ogies needed.  In  recalling  this  phase,  it  was  certainly 


one  of  the  most  stimulating  of  my  experience.  We 
literally  were  unfettered  conceptually,  limited  only 
by  Bob's  imagination,  which  appears  to  be  boundless. 

Sometime  during  the  course  of  this  series  of  inter- 
changes, which  extended  through  the  Spring  of  1969-at 
exactly  what  point  it  is  not  altogether  certain-it  became 
clear  to  Rauschenberg  what  the  piece  should  actually  be. 
According  to  the  artist's  own  account,  he  was  lying  on 
the  beach  when  it  occurred  to  him  spontaneously  to  use 
mud  and  to  reproduce  the  bubbling  activity  of  the 
"paint  pots"  at  Yellowstone  National  Park;  sound 
stimuli  would  be  channelled  to  directly  generate  the 
mud  movement.  He  conveyed  this  notion  to  Ellmore  and 
other  engineers  at  Teledyne  who  began  to  investigate  the 
feasibility  of  activating  mud  by  sound  waves.  It  was 
quickly  determined  that  the  level  of  sound  required  to 
cause  by  itself  any  movement  or  bubbling  effect  in  an 
expanse  of  viscous  material  would  deafen  the  human  ear. 
Again,  Ellmore  summarized  for  us  this  stage  of  research: 
The  visual  mechanism  chosen  by  Bob  was  to  be  a 
large  tank  of  viscous  liquid  through  which  a  less 
viscous  liquid  or  a  gas  would  be  released;  the  control 
of  such  release  to  be  governed  by  the  sensing  and 
processing  of  selected  elements  of  the  environment. 
Simultaneously  this  was  to  be  accompanied  by  a 
similarly  processed  acoustic  display. 

We  found  rather  rapidly  that  the  constraints  of  reality 
were  upon  us.  For  example,  following  a  meeting  with 
one  of  the  Teledyne  Companies  engaged  in  the 
manufacture  of  viscous  liquid.  Bob,  after  due  experi- 
mentation, discovered  the  combination  of  chemicals, 
which  would  yield  the  desired  effect.  Alas,  the  cost 
[would  have  been]  monumental  and  it  was  some  time 
before  it  was  realized  that  simple  drilling  mud  was 
actually  superior.  Similarly  we  decided  on  injecting 
air  into  the  mud  and  planned  on  using  a  valve  which 
would  release  air  in  direct  proportion  to  the  applied 
electrical  signal.  It  required  some  experimentation 
before  we  found  that  controlling  the  duration  of  one 
of  three  constant  pressure  sources  gave  nearly  equiva- 
lent results  at  a  cost  reduction  of  about  99%.  There 
were  many  many  such  examples,  stemming,  I  suspect, 
largely  from  the  space  age  environment  within  which 
the  various  contributing  companies  were  accustomed 
to  operating.  In  short,  there  was  no  incentive  to  do 
other  than  pursue  the  most  technically  convenient 
path  .... 

In  the  fall  of  1969  we  considered  the  possibility  of 
including  Rauschenberg's  piece,  tentatively  titled  Mud- 
Muse,  in  the  Expo  show.  After  informing  Teledyne  of 
this,  they  agreed  to  build  a  small  model  to  test  the 
system.  Work  on  a  square  eighteen  inch  prototype  tank 
began  immediately  at  Teledyne's  Torrance  division, 
Sprague  Engineering,  supervised  by  George  Carr.  The 


281 


A&T 


282 


model  was  finished  in  January,  1970  and  functioned 
satisfactorily.  However,  because  of  delays  in  obtaining 
the  necessary  fabrication  nnaterials  for  the  full-scale 
version,  the  Expo  deadline  could  not  be  met. 

The  pressure  to  finish  Mud-Muse  for  the  Expo  show  and 
the  construction  of  the  prototype  served  to  bring  into 
focus  several  problems  of  mechanical  design  which  were 
then  resolved.  The  piece  would  be  a  nine  by  twelve  foot 
tank.  Bob  had  originally  conceived  of  it  as  measuring 
sixteen  by  twenty-one  feet,  but  the  scale  was  reduced  in 
accordance  with  the  maximum  size  capacity  of  an 
airplane,  in  anticipation  of  shipping  the  piece  at  the  last 
possible  moment  to  Japan.  The  tank  would  appear  to  be 
free-standing,  being  elevated  three  inches  off  the  ground, 
and  would  have  a  two  foot  aluminum  skirt  to  hide  the 
electrical  and  pneumatic  mechanisms.  Above  the  metal 
base  would  be  thirty  Inch  high  plexiglass  sides;  the  tank 
would  have  no  cover,  so  that  the  mud  would  be  exposed 
to  top  view.  (For  structural  reasons  glass  was  later 
substituted  for  plexiglass.)  The  tank  would  contain  a 
high  viscosity,  high  density  (100  pounds  per  cubic  foot) 
derivative  of  driller's  mud,  light  brown  in  color  and 
extremely  soft  to  the  touch.  This  material  was  acquired 
from  Teledyne  Movible  Offshore  in  LaFayette,  Louisi- 
ana. At  a  later  stage  of  its  design  Frank  LaHaye  wrote  a 
description  of  the  piece  which  states  in  part. 

In  the  bottom  and  hidden  sides  of  the  tank  there  are 
located  approximately  thirty-six  compressed  air 
inlets.  Each  inlet  is  connected  to  three  manifolds  by 
low  pressure  tubing.  The  manifolds  are  maintained  at 
three  different  pressures  (2-6-12  PSI).  Each  line  of 
tubing  contains  an  electronically  operated  'on-off 
valve. 

In  operation,  the  effect  is  a  continuous  and  random 
boiling  eruption  of  different  intensity  at  different 
locations.  Selection  of  location  and  intensity  will  be 
done  electronically  using  three  or  four  microphones 
dispersed  at  random,  either  near  the  piece  or  at  a 
random  location.  If  located  near  the  piece,  the 
microphones  would  have  to  be  hung  from  the  ceiling 
or  from  a  side  wall. 

It  is  also  planned,  though  the  details  have  not  been 
resolved,  to  have  a  number  of  special  sound  tracks 
playing  from  under  the  piece.  Selection  of  one  or 
more  of  the  sound  tracks  would  tie  in  with  the 
electronic  selector  system  controlling  the  pneumatic 
valves.  Typical  sounds  might  include  the  surf,  an  owl, 
the  wind,  musical  notes,  etc.  [2] 


By  June,  1970,  the  design  of  the  electronic  and  pneu- 
matic systems  had  been  resolved,  and  fabrication  began 
in  earnest  at  Teledyne's  Aero-Cal  division  near  San  Diego 
where  Jim  Wilkinson,  Chief  Engineer,  supervised  the 
operation,  and  Carl  Adams  coordinated  the  actual 
construction. 


283 


A&T 


/'^S'4//<^/A/^*f't''  •Sc./^^/^^r7£. 


<C       D 


^  ^  ^iCAfJi',b>/eS  ^>P-^<- 


■-/?) 


:yiyS-S^^^'^ 


Z3  ^/,^^/A/SL. 


SO-3S0^2r 


/«#*/'. 


'^tUJlS 


V  I  I  I   I    I    I   I 

I  I  I  I    I    I    I   I    I 

1  4  t  V    I     I     I    I     I 

1  Z3  -^  S  &  T  S 


7^(fo»/  rL>^/Ai^ 


I 
9- 


/s>eo-/0,ooi>ii>i 


n 


5: 


'    I    I    M    I    I 
I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I     I 

(    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I 

1  a  i--^  5 1  1  S  I 

Y 


I  r  I  I  I  I  I 

I  I  f  !  t  I  I  I  I 

I  (  i  I  I  I  I  I  I 

1    Z  34  S  4"!  8  I 


y/jier- 

ID^/I770fj£ 

.A 

•  >           .0       'b 

•  o 

«o 

•A 

•D                  .6 

•/ 

♦D 

.c         c- 

.D-9 

•e 

-D                         B 

X 

.A 

N 

•< 

V 

•  0           •< 

•  C          '^ 

^            .^          -A 

•c 

fc            .c 

•6 

• 

B       .A         •'^        .C 

.6 

•  C- 

<5 


284 


By  October  construction  of  the  tank  was  sufficiently 
completed  to  allow  preliminary  testing  of  the  mud 
movement  through  mechanical  means;  the  sound  system 
was  still  unfinished.  Rauschenberg,  IVIT  and  JL  were 
present  at  Aero-Cal  for  this  long-awaited  event.  Twenty 
50-gallon  drums  of  mud  were  poured  by  hand  into  the 
tank,  and  it  heaved  and  bubbled  impressively.  Bob  was 
delighted.  The  final  stages  of  the  project  will  take  place 
in  December,  1970  when  the  valves  will  be  fully  oper- 
able and  the  electronic  system  installed.  By  that  time, 
Rauschenberg  will  have  recorded  the  soundtrack  he 
wants— a  combination  of  jumbled,  incoherent  or  semi- 
coherent  man-made  noises,  and  sounds  from  nature.* 
These  will  be  incorporated  into  the  system  to  interact 
with  the  random  action  of  the  mud  controlled  by  sounds 
from  microphones  located  in  diverse  parts  of  the  exhibi- 
tion area  or  Museum  proper. 

In  an  interview  with  MT  and  GS  in  October,  1970, 
Rauschenberg  commented  on  Mud-Muse,  and  reflected 
upon  his  experience  in  the  A  &  T  program,  on  the 
general  phenomenon  of  art  and  technology,  and  the 
differences  between  A  &  T  and  E.A.T.,  which  he  helped 
found. 

My  piece  is  not  the  work  of  a  magician.  It  only  exists 
in  sensation  and  it  is  exactly  what  I  thought  was 
missing  from  the  phenomenon  of  art  and  technology, 
because  usually  whatever  the  artist  does  in  relation- 
ship to  technology  tends  most  often  to  look  like 
exploitation  of  technology,  or  what  he  does  is  so 
primitive  and  simple  in  depth  [compared]  to  the 
profound  qualities  of  technology.  Like  most  techno- 
logical art,  this  [program]  is  a  beginning,  and  you 
can't  expect  one  of  the  most  sophisticated  forms  to 
be  able  to  actually  emerge  overnight.  But  one  of  the 
big  problems  is  the  whole  social  problem,  sociological 
problem— the  wooing  of  industry  to  even  care.  Then 
again,  most  often  the  artist  himself  is  so  seduced  by 
the  simple  marvels  of  science  that  are  really  just 
utilitarian  for  the  scientists  and  for  the  industrial 
world,  that  the  art  concept  doesn't  match,  it  doesn't 
even  compare  to  it  because  the  artist  usually  incor- 
porates the  phenomenon.  He  is  seeing  a  fact  as  a 
romantic  phenomenon,  as  filled  with  beauty,  and  if 
he  touches  it  and  says  that's  it,  then  that's  his  work. 
Whereas  what  you  really  have  is  a  bunch  of  very  old 
hydraulic  ideas,  things  that  we  didn't  probably  pay 
much  attention  to  when  we  were  going  to  school,  as  a 
thing  of  beauty.  So  either  it  should  be  just  that  and 
left,  or  you  have  to  take  it  for  granted  and  move  from 
there  and  not  have  the  art  part  of  it  being  a  kind  of 
cosmetic  for  technology  because  it  doesn't  need 
rouging  up.  Technology  has  not  been  unsuccessful 
....  The  temptation  for  industry  is  to  take  the  artist 


*Petrle  Mason  acted  as  Sound  Collaborator  with  Rauschenberg. 


285 


A&T 


in  superficially  as  the  artist  is  appearing  to  them.  If 
they  can  get  just  a  little  company  color  out  of  the 
collaboration,  that  is  all  they  wanx  really  in  most 
cases.  They  would  do  it  rather  than  recognize  this 
[broader]  collaboration  that  Frank  La  Haye  has 
talked  about,  where  it  is  essential  that  humanities  are 
considered  in  industry. 


The  thrill  of  making  another  dollar  has  carried  us  so 
far  out  of  our  lives  and  any  real  sense  of  what  tech- 
nology is  about  and  what  it  does  mean  to  us;  what  its 
influences  are.  We  are  so  busy  progressing  that  we 
have  absolutely  lost  any  realistic  sense  or  even  need 
for  it.  You  can't  trust  that  to  a  few  Ford  Foundation 
grants,  for  some  people  who  go  off  and  make  a  bunch 
of  surveys  and  come  back  with  some  figures.  It's  got 
to  be  something  really  in  practice.  You  were  talking 
about  the  fact  that  industry  needs  a  conscience,  and 
it  seems  to  me  that  the  artist  is  the  only  person  to 
hire  because  nearly  every  other  phase  of  the  profes- 
sional world  is  already  caught  up  in  it,  and  the  artist 
is  the  last,  freelance  professional  person.  The  reason 
he  is  not  involved,  hasn't  been  involved,  is  because  of 
the  sense  of  dealing  with  the  totality  instead  of  a 
specialization.  He  is  dealing  with  an  intangible.  With 
even  the  most  successful  artists,  it  would  cost  you 
more  to  keep  him  from  doing  what  he  wants  to  do 
next,  if  he  wants  to  do  it,  than  it  would  for  you  to 
support  him.  Now  that's  sure  unique  ....  We  are 
suffering  a  really  serious  hangover  with  technology. 
Taken  abstractly,  you  can  be  anything  but  extremely 
proud  of  its  accomplishments.  I  think  we  are  still 
medieval  about  our  uses  of  it.  Applying  technology  is 
on  the  sunny  side  of  witch-craft.  It's  all  tricks,  and  so 
therefore  we  have  an  extremely  serious  waste.  Tech- 
nology isn't  going  to  suffer,  because  technology 
doesn't  have  to  have  a  heart  or  anything.  Technology 
will  probably  work  just  as  well  in  polluted  air  as  not. 
In  fact,  there  could  be  new  developments  where 
polluted  air  would  be  more  advantageous  to  certain 
technological  things;  but  not  to  people  ....  I  think 
you  immediately  get  involved  with  Mud-Muse  on  a 
really  physical,  basic,  sensual  level  as  opposed  to  its 
illustrating  an  interesting  idea,  either  successfully  or 
unsuccessfully,  because  the  level  of  the  piece,  on  the 
grounds  of  an  idea,  is  pretty  low  .  .  .  There  is  no 
lesson  there  ....  It  was  to  exhibit  the  fact  that 
technology  is  not  for  learning  lessons  but  is  to  be 
experienced.  I've  done  technical  pieces  before  and 
there  is  a  much  more  self-conscious  use  of  technol- 
ogy ....  \n  Soundings  I  tried  to  start  that  out  by  just 
using  the  single  image  of  the  chair.  And  I  took  all  the 
photographs  myself  and  kept  turning  the  chair,  so 
there  was  no  entertainment,  supposedly.  It's  an 
entertaining  piece,  but  there  again  I  was  working  to 
not  educate  anyone.  I  wanted  them  to  have  the  sense 
that  they  were  half  of  the  piece  and  so  there  was  a 


286 


one-to-one  response.  If  you  walked  in  the  room 
silently,  soundlessly,  then  nothing  would  happen,  you 
wouldn't  see  anything  except  your  own  reflection. 
That's  already  a  kind  of  idea.  But  Mud-Muse  doesn't 
have  an  idea  like  that  because  Soundings  already  had 
a  lesson  and  this  is  a  very  difficult  area:  it  is  hard  not 
to  try  to  build  in  a  lesson  for  me  because  I  really  care 
so  much  about  this  whole  area.  We're  really  going  to 
be  lost  if  we  don't  come  to  terms.  The  statistics  on 
how  many  years  we  have  to  live  are  frightening;  they 
are  being  printed  every  day,  and  we  are  learning.  That 
information  is  so  much  more  available  than  it  was, 
even  a  year  ago,  but  our  rate  of  doing  anything  about 
it  is  so  much  slower.  This  has  absolutely  to  do  with 
our  relationship  to  technology— our  idea  about  the 
world  as  being  this  great  big  apple  or  something 
which  is  put  here  for  us  and  if  we  get  in  trouble  God 
is  going  to  take  care  of  all  that.  God's  not  going  to  let 
anything  happen  to  his  world  because  after  all,  he 
made  us.  That's  a  lot  of  bull  ....  But  there's  not  that 
moral  content  in  Mud-Muse  ....  Pure  waste,  sensual- 
ism, utilizing  a  pretty  sophisticated  technology  ....  I 
did  earth  paintings,  [1953  or  1954]  before  the  peak 
of  abstract  expressionism.  [3]  Bill  deKooning  still 
wasn't  selling  anything;  he  was  showing  in  one  of  the 
only  five  galleries  in  New  York  City  that  would  show 
modern  Americans,  and  I  went  into  these  earth 
things.  There  again,  I  didn't  want  to  make  a  big  thing 
about  that,  but  those  paintings  were  about  looking 
and  caring.  If  somebody  had  a  painting  they  would 
have  to  take  care  of  it.  It  is  just  as  simple  as  that.  I 
don't  care  what  the  motivation  is,  selfishly,  unselfish- 
ly, if  they're  taking  care  of  it  because  they're  thinking 
more  about  the  other  person  or  they're  taking  care  of 
it  only  because  they're  thinking  about  themselves,  the 
result  is  the  same,  that  they're  taking  care  of  it.  And 
those  were  pieces  that  would  literally  die  if  you 
didn't  water  them.  They  were  growing  art  pieces  on 
the  wall,  not  on  the  ground,  and  I  said  this  is  art, 
too  .... 


I  don't  see  that  A  &  T  and  E.A.T.  are  in  competition, 
so  comparison  doesn't  say  anything  interesting  except 
on  any  level  other  than  trying  another  way  to  arouse 
people's  sensibilities  about  the  problem  that  is  all  too 
obvious,  only  to  people  who  know  about  it,  who 
unfortunately  have  to  be  in  the  minority  ....  I  think 
that  what  you  are  doing  here  is  interesting  in  the 
respect  that  E.A.T.  has  to  play  from  guts.  The  mere 
fact  that  E.A.T.  has  survived  this  long  with  so  many 
people  still  involved  in  it,  means  that  it  is  a  success.  It 
was  an  idea  before  its  time,  even  though  it  was  a  little 
late.  It  still  didn't  come  from  any  vogue.  You  started 
from  the  idea  of  art,  and  the  fact  that  you  were 
proposing  it,  guaranteed  a  level  of  encounter  that 
E.A.T.  isn't  interested  in  because  we  had  to  do  just 
the  opposite  and  say  that  we  are  not  involved  in 


^^^51 

~  -SI 

...H| 

r^  .    '■''-■■  .^-   V 

•  ■ 

"^^-y    ■ 

A&T 


esthetics.  We  are  not  censors,  we  are  not  talent 
scouts.  Anyone  who  needs  help,  technological  help, 
ought  to  have  it  available  for  thenn,  and  we  are 
catalysts  who  not  only  provide  that  help  but  excite 
other  people,  and  an  organization  could  get  to  them 
where  an  individual  couldn't.  We  have  really  been 
criticized.  Our  biggest  enemy  are  people  who  say, 
'Now  what  is  wrong  with  a  Rembrandt?'  You  started 
from  the  other  end,  and  because  of  your  endorsement 
and  the  fact  that  you  provided  the  possibility  of  a 
guarantee  of  a  showing,  it  meant  that  if  they  commit- 
ted themselves,  then  they  would  have  to  do  it  well, 
which  we  couldn't  do.  All  of  our  things  begin  at  one 
end  and  either  die  before  they  get  to  the  other  end  or 
the  work  is  finished.  You  started  at  the  art  end  and 
drew  all  of  these  things  to  that,  using  the  fact  and 
your  influence  that  the  end  result  would  be  art.  In 
E.A.T.  we  say,  we  can  get  something  started  but  we 
can't  promise  you  anything.  You  can  only  do  what 
you  did,  by  setting  those  limitations,  saying  that  there 
is  going  to  be  an  exhibition;  the  work  will  be  shown 
and  by  such  and  such  a  time.  But  we  couldn't  do  that 
sort  of  thing  and  just  go  on  year  after  year  changing 
....  I  don't  think  your  problems,  though,  have  been 
any  different  from  ours  in  spite  of  the  different 
approach  because  we  ran  into  the  same  thing— skep- 
ticism, patronizing.  Then  it  is  about  the  middle-man- 
agement guy  who  is  afraid  even  though  the  boss  has 
told  him  that  we  are  doing  this.  He  can't  believe  the 
boss  will  admit  it  when  he  sees  it  .  .  .  The  research 
people  are  at  the  bottom  of  all  industry.  The  research 
people  immediately  get  interested.  Those  guys  were 
able  to  watch  air  passing  through  mud  and  were 
involved.  There  was  no  esthetic  judgment  there  about 
whether  somebody  ought  to  be  doing  this  or  not  be 
doing  this— with  those  people  that  you  really  rely  on 
to  do  the  work,  and  so  does  the  company.  The  top 
guy  is  always  just  a  little  bit  interested.  If  he  is 
interested  at  all,  he  is  excited  by  the  prospect  that 
there  is  going  to  be  this  collaboration  which  is 
unique,  but  the  problem  is  the  middle-man.  When  he 
gets  home  his  wife  is  going  to  say,  'what  did  you  do 
today  dear,'  and  he  will  lose  face  unless  he  says, 
'there's  this  funny-looking  guy  who  came  in  today, 
God  knows  where  from,  and  he  talked  strange,  had 
some  funny  ideas,  and  asked  me  to  do  some  strange 
things!'  That  does  nothing  for  his  status. 

Mud-Muse  starts  from  sound:  An  impluse  is  turned 
into  electrical  signal  and  then  spreads  out  into  three 
other  breakdowns,  depending  on  its  dynamics.  Then 
each  one  of  those  splits  off  in  three  ways.  I  don't 
want  it  to  have  a  one-to-one  relationship  to  the 
spectator.  It/s  primitive  but  I  hope  in  being  primitive 
that  it  can  be  simple  and  the  intent  be  legible.  It  is  an 
existing  fact  that  the  world  is  interdependent.  The 
idea  of  art  very  often  tends  to  illustrate  some  solitary 


288 


independent  concern  recognized  as  isolation.  It 
celebrates  most  often  a  kind  of  withdrawal  or  self- 
concern;  and  it's  unrealistic.  Even  works  that  are 
about  the  other  thing  usually  have  a  short  life  because 
they  too  get  included  in  this  other  very  precious 
work. 

Gall  R.  Scott 


Jesse  Reichek 

Bom  Brooklyn,  New  York,  1916 
Resident  Berkeley,  California 


A&T 


By  the  summer  of  1969,  IBM  had  been  contracted  with 
A  &  T  as  a  Patron  Sponsor  for  more  than  a  year,  but  we 
had  not  succeeded  in  placing  an  artist  with  the  company. 
(We  had  proposed  matches  with  Vasarely,  Vjenceslav 
Richter,  Eduardo  Paolozzi  and  Jackson  MacLow,  and 
Robert  Irwin  had  toured  IBM's  San  Jose  facility;  discus- 
sion of  these  attempts  can  be  found  in  the  sections  on 
these  artists.)  In  July,  Jane  Livingston  contacted  artist 
Jesse  Reichek  in  Berkeley  to  sound  him  out  on  his 
potential  interest  in  working  with  IBM.  Reichek  is  a 
painter  and  Professor  of  Design  at  Cal  Berkeley;  both  the 
nature  of  his  work  and  his  published  ideas  on  problems 
of  urban  design  and  education,  and  his  esthetic  philos- 
ophy in  general  suggested  to  us  an  approach  that  might 
well  imply  his  desire  and  ability  to  work  with  computer 
technology.  As  early  as  1951 ,  Reichek  wrote  a  short 
statement  which  appeared  in  Arts  and  Architecture, 
March,  1951,  outlining  an  attitude  which  has  continued 
to  inform  his  work  and  thinking  to  the  present  time: 
It  is  not  what  I  see  that  is  important  to  me.  Vision  is 
but  one  means  of  absorbing  or  projecting  the  con- 
struction of  forces  which  is  experience.  The  problem 
is  in  the  way  these  forces  are  constructed;  giving  rise 
to  the  endless  variety  of  experiences  and  acts  of 
which  we  are  capable. 

Such  experiences  and  acts  as:  space,  color,  light, 
motion,  time,  forms,  moods,  emotions,  personal 
history,  social  comment,  imaginary  worlds,  etc.,  etc., 
are  indeed  undeniable  facts.  But  facts,  regardless  of 
the  amount  of  detail  they  include,  are  limited  truths. 
The  process,  ever-changing  and  limitless,  by  which 
these  facts  are  constructed  is  the  constant  truth.  A 
structured  process  is  composed  of  especially  formed, 
organized,  and  placed  elements.  These  elements  are 
placed  according  to  the  dictates  of  the  conceived 
structural  form;  the  conceived  functions;  potential 
functions;  and  possible  functions  of  the  structured 
form  as  a  totality.  The  elements  in  addition  to  their 
position  in  the  life,  history,  and  assembly  of  the 
structural  whole  have  a  life,  history,  and  assembly  of 
their  own.  They  are  simultaneously  a  whole  and 
elements  of  a  whole.  The  structured  process  is  not 
only  conceived— the  elements  so  assembled— as  to 
allow  for  the  continued  existence  of  the  whole,  but 
the  total  structure  acts  IN  the  functions  of  the 
elements.  The  elements  which  make  up  the  structured 
process  besides  having  their  own  activities  outside  the 
whole,  act  independently  and/or  in  relationship  with 
each  other  UPON  the  whole.  The  total  structure  is 
established  in  a  constant  state  of  being  re-established. 

Reichek  spent  some  time  considering  our  proposal,  and 
agreed  to  meet  with  us  and  members  of  IBM's  Scientific 
Center  at  Century  City,  Los  Angeles.  Through  our 
contact  man.  Dr.  David  Heggie,  the  artist  was  introduced 
immediately  to  the  man  he  was  to  work  closely  with  in 


the  ensuing  months.  Dr.  Jack  Citron,  a  physicist  and 
mathemetician.  [1]  James  Kearns,  Manager  of  the  Los 
Angeles  Scientific  Center,  also  met  Reichek  at  the  outset 
of  his  collaboration  and  has  continued  to  be  involved  in 
the  development  of  the  project. 


Citron,  because  of  his  background  and  special  interest  in 
the  arts,  particularly  music,  was  receptive  in  principle  to 
the  notion  of  working  with  an  artist,  and  he  was  enthusi- 
astic about  Reichek's  ideas  as  they  related  to  his  work  in 
the  area  of  computers.  On  the  basis  of  his  and  his  col- 
leagues' positive  response  to  Reichek,  IBM  approved  the 
project.  A  system  was  arranged  by  which,  starting  in 
September,  1969,  Reichek  would  fly  to  Los  Angeles  at 
least  once  a  month  to  meet  with  Citron  and  Kearns.  The 
first  few  sessions  were  basically  used  in  dialogue,  to 
clarify  the  artist's  intentions  and  determine  what  was 
feasible  to  do  and  how,  given  the  possibilities  and 
limitations  of  the  computer.  According  to  Reichek's 
initial  description  of  his  theoretical  area  of  interest,  the 
concept  oi process  was  critical.  He  was  interested  in  the 
capability  of  the  computer  to  transform  visual  images 
into  series  of  configurations,  based  on  a  limited  number 
of  pictorial  elements,  or  parameters.  He  wanted  to 
determine  whether  the  computer,  once  programmed 
with  certain  information  which  could  somehow  be 
translated  into  graphic  form,  could  respond  to  that 
initially  given  information  by  some  internal  process,  to 
create  series  of  variations.  The  principle  would  be  one  of 
continuous,  somehow  self-perpetuating,  input,  transfor- 
mation, output;  that  output  would  become  input, 
transformation,  output,  etc.  Citron  seemed  to  indicate, 
during  these  early  discussions,  that  many  of  the  notions 
Reichek  described  were  not  possible.  Reichek  left  with 
Citron  a  series  of  drawings  to  familiarize  him  with  the 
kinds  of  figures  and  color  systems  he  might  want  to 
work  with. 

Although  most  of  the  long  sessions  between  Reichek  and 
Citron  were  taped,  and  transcriptions  made,  it  is  difficult 
to  cull  from  them  excerpts  which  would  communicate 
the  technical  gist  of  the  problems  they  were  confronting. 


B 


11 


^ 

1                          — ' 

1 ' 

1 ' 

f                          — ' 

j\ 

V 

y 

^ 

ra                                     p 

y 

1 

^1 

1 

1 

V 

1 

1 

y 

J  ^ ,    1 

y 

J  I 

y 

— 'i- 

^L 

' 1 

1 1 

1 '                   1 

1— ^1 '' 



1 

~ 

V         1 1 

■^^ — ' ii 

•^ 1 

'  t' 

1 

^ 


1 ipi ^        , 'Ul 

SuWyil 


m^\ 


[i^[ 


~ 

1 

J 

C 

-^ 



— "- 

y 

^ — ly 

V 

y 

1 

1 

\- 

1 1 

, IV  L. 

-^               1= 

— i  >> — ^ 
=1          ^ 

p     y 

1 

V 

r 
1 

1 1 

1 1 

=^ 

1      ^                      1 

r^v      1 ' 

_<dl 


3tv^ 


[.' » ^   1 

■  1 1 

v^l ^1 

' — ^-'i nil 

'=nlllllllllll 

P 

r^ 

1^ 

1 

1_ 

1    ^ )\~ 

1'             — ^^v. 

291 


A&T 


However,  Reichek  set  down  in  a  letter  written  in  Sep- 
tember, 1970,  a  sort  of  recapitulation  and  progress 
report  of  the  project  as  he  saw  it;  and  in  October,  Citron 
wrote  a  technical  description  of  the  project  at  our 
request. 


At  the  time  of  Reichek's  letter,  there  had  arisen  some 
problems  regarding  IBM's  willingness  to  continue  sup- 
porting the  collaboration  after  December  of  1970;  these 
considerations  prompted  him  to  formulate  the  state- 
ment. He  wrote. 

It  seems  to  me  that  we  now  have  sufficient  working 
experience  with  this  project  to  allow  us  to  review 
where  we  are  and  indicate  the  directions  it  can  take 
and  the  products  it  may  produce.  Since  I  view  this 
project  as  a  collaborative  effort  between  the  Museum, 
IBM  and  myself,  I  would  like  this  memorandum  to 
serve  as  a  basis  for  discussion,  modification  and 
decision  by  all  of  us. 

Background 

When  you  called  me  in  July,  1969  concerning  my 
Interest  in  working  in  a  project  with  IBM  as  part  of 
your  Art  and  Technology  program,  I  asked  for  two 
weeks  to  think  about  it.  I  spent  those  two  weeks 
reviewing  some  of  the  non-technical  literature  on  the 
use  of  computers,  the  development  of  my  own  work 
over  the  past  25  years  and  the  direction  it  might  take 
in  the  future.  I  also  gave  a  great  deal  of  thought  to 


the  use  of  computers  and  related  advanced  technolo- 
gies as  it  impinges  on  the  situation  and  the  problems 
of  our  present-day  society  and  the  manner  in  which 
they  may  determine  our  future  personal  and  societal 
life-styles.  I  should  add,  that  I  have  been  concerned, 
as  others  have,  with  these  issues  for  many  years;  both 
in  my  work  as  an  artist  and  in  my  academic  activities 
as  a  professor. 

Briefly,  these  are  the  objectives  I  set  for  my  participa- 
tion in  and  the  design  of  the  project. 

1 .  That  while  being  aware  and  respecting  the  role 
of  any  tool  in  the  process  of  generating  any 
form,  be  it  a  work  of  art,  a  paper  clip  or  a 
political  system,  this  project  should  not  be  a 
display  of  technological  gymnastics. 

2.  That  the  products  which  will  be  produced  are 
to  be  determined  by  the  logic  made  explicit 
from  the  study  of  my  present  and  past  work. 

3.  That  the  implicit  meaning  and  the  conceptual 
basis  of  my  work  must  be  embodied  in  the 
works  coming  out  of  the  project. 

4.  That  the  manner  in  which  the  works  produced 
are  presented  should  be  consonant  with  charac- 
teristics of  the  underlying  conception  inherent 
In  my  work  and  the  nature  of  the  tools  used— 
the  computer,  etc. 

5.  That  this  project  should  not  produce  a  unique 
work  or  several  unique  works:  such  a  result 
would  be  a  contradiction  of  the  fundamental 
characteristics  of  the  computer  and  do  violence 
to  the  basic  philosophical  position  which  has 
guided  the  development  of  my  work. 

These  statements  need  elaboration  which  we  should 
do  when  we  discuss  this  memo.  More  precise  meaning 
can  be  derived  from  the  description  of  the  project 
and  my  proposals  for  what  the  project  should  pro- 
duce. 

In  August,  1969  at  our  first  meeting  with  Jack 
Citron,  Jim  Kearns  and  others  from  IBM,  I  sketched 
out  some  tentative  notions  for  a  project.  There  was 
an  expression  of  interest  and  a  desire  to  engage  in  it. 
Simply  stated,  the  project  called  for  the  computer  to 
be  programmed  using  the  rules  of  logic  which  have 
generated  my  paintings.  The  logic  Is  such  as  to  not 
only  produce  a  painting,  but  is  capable  of  utilizing 
the  'experiencing'  of  that  painting  in  order  to  pro- 
duce the  next— ad  infinitum.  At  a  subsequent  meeting 
with  Jack,  we  thoroughly  discussed  and  analyzed 
some  40  sketches  of  my  work.  (I've  since  added  many 


292 


more  as  part  of  the  project.)  Jack  kept  these  sketches 
for  further  study  and  at  a  later  meeting  we  again 
discussed  them.  Jack  developed  a  proposal  which  was 
approved  and  the  work  on  programing  began  in 
January,  1970. 

Since  then,  I  have  been  meeting  with  Jack  at  IBIVi 
almost  monthly.  He  has  explained  the  non-technical 
aspects  of  the  program  he  is  designing  and  has  kept 
me  abreast  of  the  problems  involving  equipment. 

Present  Status 

The  programming  part  of  the  project  is  well  along. 
During  our  last  meeting  on  September  3,  Jack  ex- 
plained the  coding  system  which  would  enable  me  to 
interact  directly  with  the  equipment  to  be  used  in 
making  the  three  color  separations.  For  the  present 
time,  the  plan  to  have  me  interact  with  a  display 
panel  which  would  give  me  immediate  visualizations, 
in  outline  form,  of  my  instructions  is  being  put  aside. 
As  I  understand  the  situation,  the  necessary  piece  of 
equipment  is  not  available  now  and  Jack  does  not 
expect  to  have  it  for  another  six  months.  The  idea  at 
present  is  for  me  to  work  at  a  terminal  which  would 
feed  directly  into  the  color-separation  machine. 
Although  I  shall  attempt  to  do  this,  I  feel  that  I  will 
be  greatly  inhibited  by  the  inability  to  see  what  I'm 
doing. 

The  color  separation  machine  produces  one  color 
separation  (approximately  4"  x  5")  in  a  half  hour, 
i.e.,  an  entire  picture  in  an  hour  and  a  half.  In  ad- 
dition, the  use-time  on  the  machine  available  to  this 
project  is  restricted.  This  places  important  limitations 
on  the  speed  with  which  I  can  see  the  results  of  my 
direct  in-put  (assuming  that  I  find  it  possible  to  work 
effectively  without  a  visualization  device)  and  the 
number  of  works  that  can  be  produced. 

It  may  be  that  these  difficulties  are  insurmountable. 
However,  with  the  exception  of  the  production  time 
required  for  the  color-separation  machine,  it  may  be 
that  increased  access-time  can  be  obtained  and  a 
visualization  panel  can  be  made  available.  We  ought 
to  discuss  this  and  explore  how  this  might  be  accom- 
plished. 

The  many  trips  to  Los  Angeles,  I  imagine,  were 
necessary  in  the  early  stages  of  the  project.  I  would 
hope  that  it  is  possible  to  drastically  reduce  the 
number  of  these  trips  as  the  project  progresses.  I 
would  think  that  at  least  one  of  the  factors  men- 
tioned above,  visualization,  has  a  bearing  on  the 
alternative  arrangement  possible.  We  ought  to  discuss 
this. 


Future  Development 

I  see  a  two-fold  development  of  the  project,  a  main- 
line and  a  branch-line.  The  branch-line  terminates  at 
the  IVIuseum  in  May  1971  as  part  of  the  Art  and 
Technology  exhibition.  The  main-line  terminates  at 
the  Museum  in  May  or  November  1972  as  part  of  a 
retrospective  exhibition  of  my  work. 

The  Branch-Line 

Taking  into  account  equipment  limitations  and  more 
crucially,  the  time  required  to  produce  separations 
and  process  them  into  color,  I  would  guess  that  the 
most  we  could  produce  by  May  1971  is  30  to  50 
images.  Jack  may  have  a  better  estimate.  My  very 
tentative  idea  is  that  these  images  be  made  into 
transparencies  and  be  back-projected  on  a  fairly  large 
sized  screen.  The  projection  to  be  continuous  in  a 
permutated  sequence  (12  3  4  etc.,  4  3  12  etc.,  4  3  2 
1  etc.  .  .  .)  for  the  duration  of  the  exhibit.  We  can  fix 
the  time  of  exposure  for  each  image.  Although  I  have 
not  done  the  calculations  I  feel  sure  that,  allowing  for 
a  reasonable  time  for  the  viewing  of  each  image,  the 
sequence  would  not  be  repeated  at  any  time  during 
the  exhibition.  At  least  one  other  alternative  way  of 
displaying  the  images  on  the  screen  could  be  to  show 
all  the  images  on  the  screen  at  the  same  time  in  a  grid 
pattern.  In  which  case  the  permutation  would  be  the 
spatial  order  of  their  appearance.  Written  material  as 
part  of  the  exhibit  and/or  in  the  catalog  would 
describe  the  project. 

The  Main- Line 

In  many  ways  this  part  of  the  project  is  more  consis- 
tent with  the  characteristics  of  the  computer  and  the 
conceptual  underpinning  of  my  work;  it  has  four 
parts. 

1.  Retrospective  Exhibition:  which  will  show  that 
this  project  is  a  logical  continuation  of  the 
direction  in  which  my  work  has  developed  over 
the  years.  It  should  show  the  historical  evolu- 
tion of  the  form  and  the  structure  of  the  image 
as  well  as  the  compatibility  between  the  con- 
ceptual framework  underlying  my  work  and 
the  basic  characteristics  and  Implications 
inherent  in  computer  technology. 

2.  Multi-Editions:  A  display  of  a  large  number 
(100-200)  of  the  images  the  computer  has 
generated.  These  images  to  have  been  repro- 
duced in  runs  of  5,000  each.  This  would  be  a 
manifestation  of  an  affinity  between  a  concep- 
tion in  art  and  an  implication  of  a  technology. 
The  appropriate  use  of  the  computer  as  a  tool 
is  to  produce  a  large  number  of  varied  works  in 
large  quantities  of  first-rate  quality  at  low  cost 
for  mass  communication.  The  computer's 


"nI 

7^ 

n 

ir- 

^\ 

J^ 

lirl 

~ir 

^ 

N 

1 

^  r 

— >'- 

-\( — 

1 

7 

1 1 — 

1 

_Xd| 

/- 

^ 

\( 

N 

^< 

^ 

"^ 

..-H 

7 

\  r 

■^  / 

'     1 

^ 

1   ^- L 

-^  f 

/ 

7 

— ir 

r 

1  r 

"N 

N 

^ 

^ 

^-.r 

7 

V 

^ 

-^' ^ 

i/^ — 

I?- 

n 

--.^ 

— >^ 

i^ 

^ 

N 

L- — 

— '1 

1/ — 

7 

— 1  r 

N 
-11- 

7 
— 1  r 

^ 

7 

^  r 

^' — 

>  r 

^ 
^/ — 

r 

7 

>  r 

\c 

1  r 

^ 
— ' 

^f 

1^- 

1. 

1^—,. 

r  ■^j                J 

.r-^l 

^r 

"P^ 

U 

nr 

-" 

^U  1 

LJ 

L 

^ 

nr 

— \r 

-1/^ — 

— ir 

-ii^ — 

^^ 

^' — 

■^  c 

— ir 

^ 

c 

N 

N 

1 

^ 

^ 

r 
•~-^, 

-■' — 

^ 

^ 

r — \t 

1 

S 

1 

7 

1                            1 

1^ 

1 

1                                                      h 

1 

^r 

1                            1 

1                            1 

'' 

1 

1 u. 

^. 

1r 

1 — 

^' — 

7 
— ■'1- 

-\i — ' 

1 

7- 

-\c 

iz: 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1^ 

^ 

T' 

=LC 

1 

294 


capacity  for  diverse  and  duplicatable  responses 
does  not  call  for  a  unique  work  of  art. 

3.  Book  (s):  Available  at  the  Museum  and  else- 
w/here  during  the  exhibit  and  later  on.  A  book 
is  another  form  of  mass  communication  and 
the  rationale  is  essentially  that  which  was 
described  above. 

4.  Film:  To  be  shown  at  the  Museum  during  the 
exhibit  and  elsewhere  later  on.  Here  too,  the 
rationale  described  earlier  applies  since  a  film  is 
composed  of  many  and  varied  images  and  is 
another  form  of  mass  communication. 

Finally,  I  want  to  say  what  I  see  as  the  most  interes- 
ting and  exciting  aspect  of  this  project  as  it  relates  to 
my  own  work  and,  perhaps,  art  in  general.  I've 
written  about  this  more  fully  elsewhere.  I  see  each  of 
my  paintings  as  a  fragment  and  what  one  calls  a  'body 
of  work'  as  only  a  larger  fragment.  I  believe  this  can 
be  shown  to  be  true  of  existent  individuals  and 
societies.  What  fascinates  me  about  this  project  is  that 
its  development  and  the  products  it  will  produce  is 
related  to  the  evolutionary  process  in  nature.  Evolu- 
tionary 'design'  in  nature  differs  from  the  way  man 
designs  in  that  it  is  not  'design'  according  to  external 
specifications.  Biological  'design'  is  controlled  by  an 
internal  basic  mechanism  contained  within  all  spe- 
cies—the 'designed'  object.  Differences  in  species  are 
accounted  for  by  configurational  changes  of  the  basic 
mechanism;  differences  within  species  by  rearrange- 
ment of  the  configuration.  What  I  am  trying  to 
suggest  is  an  analogy  between  the  program  for  this 
project  and  a  genetic  code,  the  computer's  capacity 
to  store  and  arrange  bits  of  information  and  DNA's 
similar  capacity,  the  works  we  can  produce  and 
species  variations,  our  process  and  the  biological 
process. 

Jack  Citron's  description  of  his  project  with  Reichek  is 

as  follows: 
Background 

Over  the  past  few  years,  a  number  of  artists  have  been 
able  to  make  use  of  computers  in  one  way  or  another. 
In  each  case,  they  were  given  a  predesigned  system 
and  told  how  to  use  it  or  what  its  inherent  capabili- 
ties and  limitations  were.  The  artist  was  then  free  to 
experiment  within  the  defined  framework  presented 
by  the  computer  hardware  and  software. 

In  the  present  case,  the  approach  is  quite  different. 
We  have  nominally  entered  what  Joseph  Schillinger 
called  'the  fifth  morphological  zone  in  the  evolution 
of  art.'  Reichek's  work  is  in  some  ways  ideal  for  this 
because  his  principal  thematic  component— what  he 
refers  to  as  'process'— is  methodology.  And  methodol- 


ogy is  the  essence  of  science  and  technology.  Our 
goals  can  then  be  described  as  follows. 

The  first  step  is  to  analyze  the  Reichek  style— not  in 
anticipation  of  mimicry— but  to  isolate  a  complete  set 
of  creative  components  which  could  serve  in  all  three 
phases: 

1.  recording  or  notation  (analogous  to  a  musical 
score) 

2.  modification  (variations  on  a  theme  is  equiva- 
lent to  changes  in  these  basic  components) 

3.  synthesis  (conversion  from  these  components 
to  mathematical  and  logical  relations  to  geo- 
metric relations  to  the  final  material  form) 

Next,  a  user-oriented  system  is  to  be  designed  in 
which  the  artist  would  manipulate  the  creative 
components  like  words  in  a  language  to  get  his  ideas 
into  a  computer.  The  computer  would  then  use  this 
information  to  control  an  output  device  to  produce 
the  defined  piece  of  art.  It  will  also  be  possible  to 
describe  'temporal'  modifications  of  the  input  which 
in  turn  would  cause  the  computer  to  produce  an 
endless  succession  of  pictures  based  on  the  'original'. 
The  precise  methods  of  interaction  with  the  user,  the 
forms  of  intermediate  and  final  computer  output,  and 
the  process  of  converting  the  latter  into  a  final 
product  are  also  to  be  defined  in  detail  and  depend 
completely  on  the  particular  hardware  that  is  avail- 
able for  our  use. 

Analysis 

An  examination  of  forty  or  so  paintings  revealed  a 
number  of  logically  related  features.  Since  each  work 
was  carried  out  on  graph  paper,  exact  size  relation- 
ships were  readily  apparent  and  Reichek's  intuitive 
methods  of  handling  strict  mathematical  symmetries 
could  be  easily  seen.  Color,  while  restricted  to  red, 
blue,  and  black,  was  clearly  used  to  accent  the  sym- 
metry in  each  work  by  employing  permutations  as 
accompaniment  to  the  symmetry  operations  on  the 
spatial  material.  This  spatial  material  in  turn  consisted 
of  three  distinct  classes: 

1.  framed  figures  with  two  possible  orientations 
inside  areas  with  boundary  sizes  making  some 
simple  ratios  with  the  background  size 

2.  vertical  and/or  horizontal  lines  usually  in  paired 
colors  and  one  unit  wide 

3.  solid  areas  really  marking  the  absence  of  the 
above  two  classes 


295 


A&T 


Three  types  of  works  also  appeared  in  which  the 
featured  elements  were: 

1.  Just  figure  blocks  with  an  interplay  of  the 
symmetries  relating  block  position,  figure 
orientation,  and  color  permutation 

2.  Just  lined  areas  again  with  symmetry  relations 
between  areas  to  complete  a  theme 

3.  Both  figures  and  lines  where  the  latter  play  a 
definite  role  in  'connecting'  the  various  figure 
blocks 

System  design 

An  initial  estimate  as  to  the  number  of  possible 
Reichek  paintings  is  both  enlightening  and  astound- 
ing. If  only  a  40  by  40  grid  is  considered  and  we 
simply  ask  how  many  ways  three  colors  can  be 
arranged,  one  to  a  square,  the  answer  is  a  number 
containing  764  digits!  Notice  the  number  one  million 
contains  7  digits,  a  trillion  is  13  digits  long,  and  even 
an  octillion  is  'only'  a  28  digit  number. 

At  least  two  important  conclusions  can  be  drawn 
from  this.  The  first  and  obvious  one  is  that  there  is  no 
danger  of  'running  out'  of  something  to  do  in  this 
style.  The  second  and  more  subtle  one  provides 
information  as  to  the  kind  of  user  control  that  is 
necessary.  A  common  tendency  among  many  of 
today's  artists  would  be  to  allow  random  choice  from 
this  enormous  backlog  of  possibilities.  However, 
thermodynamic  arguments  concerning  large  ensem- 
bles show  clearly  that  the  results  would  be  most 
disappointing  and,  even  more  important,  would  show 
no  relation  to  Reichek's  main  theme:  'process'!  Thus 
control  must  be  exercised  over  the  basic  components 
isolated  in  the  section  on  analysis  by  establishing 
mathematical/logical  operations  and  operators  which 
can  then  be  used  to  specify  unique  works  or  practi- 
cally infinite  classes  of  works  by  allowing  the  artist's 
mind  to  dwell  upon  the  'method'  to  be  used  or  devel- 
oped without  the  distractions  inherent  in  any  extra- 
logical  approach. 


3.  define  blocks  uniquely  or  with  reference  to 
previously  defined  blocks 

4.  set  up  figure  information  for  a  block 

5.  set  up  line  information  for  a  block 

6.  describe  symmetry  operations  when  developing 
new  blocks  from  old  ones 

Interaction  with  the  developing  composition  must 
also  be  carried  out  through  the  terminal.  We  hope  to 
be  able  to  use  a  graphic  terminal  to  make  this  easier, 
but  may  have  to  rely  on  a  typed  printout  of  the 
developing  picture. 

The  output  from  this  phase  will  be  a  computer 
produced  tape  which  contains  a  new  representation 
of  the  picture.  This  tape  could  then  be  used  as  input 
to  another  computer  which  in  turn  would  control 
either  a  milling  machine  or  a  photo-composer  to 
produce  engraved  printing  plates  or  color  separated 
film  transparencies.  This  secondary  output  will  then 
be  used  to  produce  the  final  results  in  the  form  of 
conventional  visual  products. 

At  the  time  of  this  writing,  the  outcome  of  the  Reichek/ 
IBM  project  is  dependent  upon  the  corporation's  willing- 
ness to  extend  their  commitment  into  1971. 

Jane  Livingston 


Because  the  computer  we  are  currently  using  is 
located  on  the  East  Coast  (Cambridge,  Massachusetts) 
and  our  access  to  it  is  via  voice-grade  telephone  lines 
through  a  typewriter-terminal,  input  to  the  system 
must  be  in  some  form  of  typed  code.  The  implemen- 
tation currently  under  development  compresses  the 
necessary  information  into  six  types  of  statements. 

These  serve  the  following  functions: 

1.  establish  background  grid  size  and  color 


2.  specify  up  to  four  types  of  spatial  periodicity 


Vjenceslav  Richter 

Born  Drenova,  Yugoslavia,  1917 
Resident  Zagreb 


296 


Yugoslavian  architect  and  sculptor  Vjenceslav  Richter 
has  been  developing  for  the  past  few  years  what  he  calls 
"system  sculpture."  In  his  first  one-man  exhibition  at 
New  York's  Staempfli  Gallery  in  November,  1968,  he 
showed  twenty -six  works,  each  of  which  was  construc- 
ted of  thousands  of  uniformly  shaped  rectangular 
aluminum  components.  These  measured  one-fourth  inch 
square  on  the  face  and  two  inches  in  depth.  Each  sculp- 
ture was  composed  according  to  a  mathematically 
defined  system,  employing  this  basic  unit  or  "mono- 
element,"  as  he  calls  it,  to  build  diverse  three  dimension- 
al, often  curvilinear  forms.  Ideally,  Richter  wishes  to 
mobilize  the  sculptures  by  means  of  a  computerized 
mechanism  called  by  the  artist  a  "relief-ometer"  which 
would  allow  each  mono-element  to  be  moved  back  and 
forth  according  to  a  predetermined  program,  rendering  a 
perpetually  changing  "membrane"  of  forms  not  unlike  a 
rippling  surface  of  water.  The  ultimate  extension  of  this 
notion  for  Richter  would  be  to  enlarge  the  size  of  the 
basic  unit  into  architectural  dimension,  eventually 
culminating  in  "system  architecture,"  his  dream  for 
future  urban  planning. 

By  1967  Richter  had  already  devised  a  mechanical 
method  for  moving  secf/ons  of  a  sculpture,  but  had  been 
unable  (for  lack  of  financial  support  and  technical 
expertise)  to  develop  an  Instrument  to  program  each 
component  individually  and  thereby  to  achieve  complete 
kinetic  versatility. 

We  invited  Richter  to  come  to  Los  Angeles  to  discuss  the 
problems  first  hand  with  several  contracted  companies- 
IBM,  Wyle  Laboratories,  Litton  Industries  and  Informa- 
tion International,  each  of  which  was  apparently  capable 
of  executing  the  sculpture. 

By  the  time  Richter  arrived  on  April  2,  1969  the  possi- 
bilities had  been  narrowed  down  for  various  reasons  to 


Litton  Industries,  where  Richter  was  promptly  taken.  He 
met  with  Fred  Fajardo,  from  Public  Relations  and  Cy 
Schoen,  a  division  coordinator  who  advised  that  LItton's 
Mellonics  division,  specializing  in  computer  products, 
could  handle  the  programming  while  a  physicist  at  their 
Guidance  and  Control  Division  could  assist  with  the 
mechanics.  That  afternoon  and  the  following  day  Rich- 
ter and  a  team  of  Litton's  scientists  and  technicians 
entered  into  lengthy  problem  solving  sessions.  Dr. 
Richard  Feynman  was  present  at  one  of  these  meetings 
and,  after  discussing  alternative  solutions  for  the  engine- 
ering of  the  system.  It  was  Feynman  who  convinced 
Richter  that  a  compromise  was  necessary. 

Litton's  experts  agreed  that  programming  the  piece  was 
a  relatively  straightforward  procedure,  but  the  central 
difficulty  was  devising  an  Internal  micro-mechanical 
system  to  actually  move  each  unit  while  maintaining  the 
four-sided  external  integrity  of  the  form.  Richter  was 
insistent  in  his  refusal  to  close  off  from  view  one  side  in 
order  to  house  the  motor.  He  did,  however,  agree  to  a 
compromise  In  the  scale  of  the  Intended  sculpture  In 
order  to  facilitate  certain  otherwise  insurmountable 
obstacles.  After  explaining  all  details  and  setting  forth 
his  demands  for  the  performance  and  form  of  the  piece, 
he  returned  to  Yugoslavia  while  the  Litton  staff  proceed- 
ed to  project  a  cost  estimate. 

The  ensuing  financial  projection  was  staggeringly  high 
due  to  the  fact  that  the  "state-of-the-art"  of  this  type  of 
micro-electronics  is  not  sufficiently  advanced  to  be 
economically  feasible  for  such  esthetic  Implementation. 
Moreover,  the  resulting  sculpture  would  have  been  a 
considerable  compromise  from  Richter's  original  pro- 
posal. For  these  reasons,  which  we  conveyed  to  Richter, 
we  were  unable  to  carry  out  the  project. 


James  Rosenquist 

Born  Grand  Forks,  North  Dakota,  1933 
Resident  New  York  City 


James  Seawright 

Born  Jackson,  Mississippi,  1936 
Resident  New  York  City 


A&T 


We  talked  to  James  Rosenquist  regarding  A  &  T  in  April, 
1969,  and  he  expressed  enthusiastic  interest  about  it.  In 
particular  he  wanted  to  tour  Ampex,  IVl.G.IVl.  (a  com- 
pany not  contracted)  or  an  aerospace  industry  where 
research  was  being  conducted  in  environmental  control 
for  space  travel.  The  aerospace  industries  participating  in 
the  program  were  already  working  with  other  artists,  but 
when  Rosenquist  came  to  Los  Angeles  two  weeks  later 
he  toured  Container  Corporation,  Ampex  and  RCA. 
However,  none  of  these  companies  inspired  the  artist, 
and  he  returned  to  New  York  without  presenting  a 
proposal. 


MT  saw  James  Seawright  in  New  York  and  arranged  for 
the  artist  to  visit  General  Electric's  Nela  Park  facility  In 
IVIay,  1969.  Seawright  required  a  specific  type  of  techni- 
cal assistance— a  particular  kind  of  lamp  and  the  hard- 
ware for  a  control  system,  in  order  to  execute  a  new 
series  of  light  sculptures.  He  toured  G.E.  with  Hal 
Glicksman  and  was  certain  they  could  accommodate  his 
needs.  Meanwhile,  we  had  been  in  contact  with  Dan 
Flavin  who  toured  G.E.  and  went  to  work  there  in  the 
Summer. 


Richard  Serra 

Born  San  Francisco,  1939 
Resident  New  York  City 


298 


By  June,  1969  we  had  taken  six  artists  to  Kaiser  Steel 
Corporation  (Len  Lye,  Frangois  Dallegret,  Philip  King, 
Jules  Olitski,  Robert  Smithson,  and  Mark  di  Suvero) 
without  effecting  a  match.  James  Monte,  who  had  by 
this  time  moved  to  New  York,  urged  us  to  invite  Richard 


Serra  to  visit  Kaiser's  Fontana  division.  On  June  10,  HG 
and  Serra  toured  the  facility,  and  the  artist  was  enthusi- 
astic about  what  he  saw.  Shortly  thereafter,  he  submit- 
ted the  following  proposal:  [1] 


PROPOSAL  FOR  LOS  ANGELES  COUNTY  MUSEUM 
IN  CONJUNCTION  WITH  KAISER  STEEL 


The  work  vrill  be  related  to  both  the  physical  properties 
of  the  site  (Kaiser  Steel)  and  the  characteristics  of 
the  materials  and  processes  concomittant  to  it.  The 
work  falls  into  three  basic  categories: 

A.  casting  in  location 

B.  overlaying  processes 

C.  constructions. 


A,  Casting: 


The  molten  metal  for  casting  is  to  be  brought 
directly  from  the  furnaces  by  turret  car  to 
the  yard.  Sand  casting  molds  are  to  be  used 
to  control  the  pouring  flow  in  location. 

1,  Slabs  are  to  be  embedded  and  supported 
in  place  in  the  molds, 

2.  Shapes  are  to  be  derived  from  direct 
pouring. 


B,  Overlaying  Processes: 


C,  Constructions; 


Specific  diverse  processes 
are  to  be  superimposed  in 
final  states.  The  juxtaposition 
is  to  point  to  the  specific 
characteristics  contained  in 
each  step  and  method  of 
processing.  Work  will  assume 
a  holistic  striated  form. 
Stacking  will  be  the  control. 
Example:  poured  form  overlaid 

by  in  crops,  hot 

rolled  slab, 

galvanized  sheet, 

cold  rolled, 

discarded  gangue,  etc. 

Work  is  to  be  erected  in  place. 
Slabs,  hot  rolled  (ploom),  to  be  used. 
Principle  of  work  is  to  rely  on 
physical  tension,  balance,  and 
gravity. 

Example:  Gtonehenge  type 
construction. 


299 


A&T 


We  invited  Serra  to  take  up  residence  at  Kaiser,  and  on 
July  21  he  commenced  work.  After  negotiations  with 
Kaiser  management  and  supervisory  staff,  it  was  agreed 
that  the  artist  would  work,  at  certain  specified  times,  in 
the  "skullcracker"  yard.  (Here  various  scrap  materials 
are  broken  down  so  as  to  be  reprocessed.)  To  do  this 
Kaiser  provided  the  artist  with  an  H-shaped  overhead 
magnetic  crane,  an  experienced  crane  operator  and 
several  construction  assistants.  Bill  Brinkman,  foundry 
foreman,  was  assigned  to  oversee  the  collaboration;  he 
became  an  Invaluable  assistant  to  the  artist.  For  the  next 
four  weeks  Serra  worked  closely  with  this  crew  of 
assistants,  often  during  the  night  shift,  when  the  crane 
was  available.  He  usually  positioned  himself  on  the  ^ 

ground  near  the  location  on  which  the  piece  was  to  be 
built,  signaling  directions  to  the  crane  operator  standing 
at  the  controls  in  an  overhead  tower. 

In  his  work  of  the  past  two  years,  Serra's  primary 
structural  method  has  been  that  of  propping,  leaning  and 
stacking  various  types  of  massive  materials— lead  sheets, 
rolled  lead  columns,  steel,  and  giant  logs.  His  basic 
approach  to  these  methods  Is  empirical,  combined  with 
an  Intuitive  understanding  of  the  physical  properties  of 
gravity,  tension  and  balance.  In  all  these  works,  among 
which  One  Ton  Prop  (House  of  Cards)  and  Sign  Board 
Prop,  both  of  1969,  are  notable  examples,  the  notion  of 
process  Is  inherent  to  the  sculpture  and  as  Important  as 
the  final  construction  resulting  from  the  accumulation 
of  individual  components.  The  artist  best  explains  his 
approach  at  Kaiser  in  the  following  statement  written 
after  his  period  of  collaboration  at  the  plant: 
Skullcracker  Stacking  Series  (name  of  yard) 
Work  at  Kaiser  Steel  (Fontana,  California)  was 
erected  with  an  overhead  magnetic  crane.  The  struc- 
tures were  not  conceived  In  advance.  A  hand  language 
was  learned.  (Collaboration  existed  between  the 
operator  and  myself.)  Material  primarily  utilized: 
crop,  the  waste  product  of  the  hot  roll  mill.  These 
large  chunks  of  steel  cut  from  the  ends  of  slabs 
provided  a  variety  of  nonflxed  relational  possibilities. 


The  scale  1 5  to  30  feet  in  height  and  weighing 
100-250  tons  was  related  directly  to  the  potential  of 
the  place.  The  problem:  to  avoid  architectonic 
structure,  i.e.  to  allow  the  work  to  be  both  dense, 
loose  and  balanced  without  relying  on  previous  forms 
or  given  methods. 

The  series  involved  the  possibilities  of  constructing 
with  weight,  i.e.  gravitational  balanced  weight  over- 
head as  support.  This  series  was  further  abstracted 
with  the  resultant  lead  structures  made  in  New  York 
In  the  fall. 


Direct  engagement  with  the  materials  (crop,  plate, 
slab,  billets,  stools,  etc.)  that  is,  the  elements  in- 


300 


volved,  enabled  concrete  identification  with  each  step 
in  the  process.  Paradoxically  the  solutions  to  the 
problems  of  construction  (stacking)  appear  rational, 
although  the  process  of  finding  these  solutions  was 
not.  The  apparent  potential  for  disorder  for  move- 
ment endowed  the  structures  with  a  quality  outside 
of  their  physical  or  relational  definition.  Complete 
disorientation  occurred  daily.  Work  that  both  tended 
upward  and  collapsed  downward  toward  the  ground 
simultaneously  was  o.k.  In  all  twenty  structures  were 
erected  in  eight  weeks— the  pieces  were  put  together 
and  taken  apart. 


Technology  is  a  form  of  tool  making  (body  exten- 
sions). Technology  is  not  art— not  invention.  It  is  a 
simultaneous  hope  and  hoax.  It  does  not  concern 
itself  with  the  undefined,  the  inexplicable:  it  deals 
with  the  affirmation  of  its  own  making.  Technology 
is  what  we  do  to  the  Black  Panthers  and  the  Vietnam- 
ese under  the  guise  of  advancement  in  a  materialistic 
theology. 

It  was  in  the  context  of  this  past  body  of  work  and  with 
the  above  stated  attitude  that  Serra  directed  his  efforts 
at  Kaiser.  He  proceeded  by  trial  and  error,  and,  after 
establishing  a  rapport  with  his  crew  and  experimenting 
with  the  equipment,  he  executed  about  twelve  construc- 
tions in  a  period  of  two  weeks  of  intense  activity.  The 
procedure  would  be  to  erect  a  piece,  and,  if  he  con- 
sidered it  successful,  to  have  it  recorded  photographical- 
ly when  possible.  The  structure  was  then  dismantled. 
These  were  process  experiments  which  would  later  be 
evaluated  by  Serra. 

The  first  piece  Serra  executed  involved  piling  sixteen 
"stools"*  in  a  cantilevered  stack.  Each  stool  weighs 
approximately  six  tons,  and  the  piece  as  a  whole 
weighed  close  to  one  hundred  tons.  This  massive  amount 
of  material,  compacted  into  dense  rectangular  forms  and 
erected  on  a  tilt,  produces  a  powerful  sense  of  precarious 
balance.  [2] 


*A  stool  is  a  rectangular  block  of  cast  iron  used  in  the  steel- 
making  process  to  close  off  the  bottom  of  the  mold  Into  which 
molton  iron  is  poured. 


301 


A&T 


From  this  method  of  stacking  the  elements  according  to 
a  regular  pattern,  Serra  progressed  into  more  experimen- 
tal stacking  processes,  following  a  loosely  organized 
distributional  procedure  and  using  varied  steel  materials. 
He  arranged  "crops,"  or  "fish  tails"t  in  a  loose  pile,  low 
to  the  ground;  over  this  he  laid  large  steel  slabs  or  sheet 
plate  at  an  angle  from  the  ground  forming  an  incline. 
[3,  4]  As  he  worked  along  this  line,  he  exerted  increas- 
ing control  over  the  stacking  method,  allowing  more  and 
more  complexity  in  the  structural  format.  He  would  pile 
together  a  loose  arrangement  of  the  fish  tails  against 
which  a  twenty  foot  steel  slab  was  propped,  one  end  on 
the  ground;  on  the  lower  end  the  mass  would  be 
counter-balanced.  This  method  of  organization  was 
continued  until  an  acceptable  structure  was  produced. 
Some  of  these  pieces  reached  to  a  height  of  twenty-five 


tin  the  steel  making  process,  the  blocks  of  steel  are  cropped  and 
squared  at  either  end  before  being  sent  to  the  rolling  mills;  the 
cutoff  ends,  irregular  in  shape  are  called  crops  or  fishtails. 


302 


feet.  Six  works  of  this  type  were  executed  [5,  6] ,  some 
of  which  included  counterbalanced  plates  of  steel  thrust 
out  laterally.  [7]  The  works  in  this  group  are  anti-archi- 
tectonic; the  massive  steel  components  are  disposed  so 
that  their  relational  quality  defies  structural  logic. 
Instead,  the  works  evince  the  process  by  which  they 
were  built. 


*?^«-^~ 


303 


A&T 


■  ■*<-*  r*'- 


-;f'-»ti 


^v,. 


304 


After  one  month  Serra  left  for  New  York  with  the 
intention  of  returning  in  a  few  months  to  continue 
working.  He  was  not  able  to  travel  west  again  until 
January,  1970,  and  then  spent  only  a  few  days  in  Fon- 
tana.  He  searched  around  the  Kaiser  plant  for  a  new  type 
of  steel  material  and  eventually  located  a  vast  yard  of 
"slag,"  which  is  an  impure  oxide  residue  from  smelting 
and  takes  the  form  of  giant  boulders.  These  he  had  taken 
to  the  skullcracker  yard  and  with  them  executed  three 
works,  again  using  methods  of  propping  and  leaning.  [8] 
However,  the  work  bogged  down,  apparently  due  to  the 
lack  of  proper  assistance. 


It  was  agreed  that  Serra  would  return  to  Los  Angeles 
early  in  the  Spring  of  1971,  when  he  would  execute  a 
sculpture,  or  a  series  of  works  for  the  Museum  exhibi- 
tion, with  the  help  of  Kaiser's  equipment,  men  and  re- 
sources. In  September,  1970,  Serra  indicated  that  in 
addition  to  erecting  one  of  the  works  from  the  "skull- 
cracker"  series,  he  would  also  like  to  do  a  piece  relating 
to  his  more  recent  thinking;  the  idea  derived  directly 
from  what  he  had  learned  about  steel  at  Kaiser.  It  is  to 
be  installed  on  a  selected  incline  of  the  Museum  park 
grounds.  The  place  selected  for  the  work  will  be  meas- 
ured; this  variable  will  determine  the  shape  and  length  of 
the  work.  Once  the  land  is  measured,  a  plate  is  set  into 
the  ground  so  that  it  is  diagonally  bisected,  revealing  the 
elevational  fall  (i.e.  the  height  and  length)  between  two 
pre-determined  points.  (At  zero  elevation  the  work  ne- 
gates itself;  at  a  45°  slope  the  shape  is  a  square.)  Once 
the  piece  is  installed,  it  is  cut  along  its  bisecting  contour, 
flush  to  the  ground,  and  allowed  to  fall.  The  resulting 
shape  reveals  on  one  edge  the  contour  line  of  the 
ground.  [9] 

Gail  R.  Scott 


305 


A&T 


.-f*' 

»  "• 

''■    „- ' .  ♦,  ■ 

1    T«    ■ 

'  ^ 

•--"' 

fl^^^^Ht 

s 

>, 

^^^^Hk 

/ 

i^P^  ~ 

.'  I'..      ■-    ■'- 

i 

1 

■ 

^r^^^ 

^^^^^^^^^^H 

^^^^^^^H 

J^^''  ^- 

,--T^-       ;^^'*.»^^^M 

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B 

T  '"li^-^^Soip-.^ '.  -  "• 

^M 


fc^ 


^:5;>.:^ 


.''^JhS* 


-."•/•J 


C":^, 


11^ 


IBftl&i 

Pf 

?»«,.  .'H 

V*»C' 

Tony  Smith 

Born  Orange,  New  Jersey,  1912 
Resident  South  Orange,  New  Jersey 


306 


Jane  Livingston  met  with  Tony  Smith  in  New  York  in 
April,  1969  and  suggested  to  him  the  notion  of  doing  a 
worJc  for  A  &  T.  Smith  tall<ed  about  executing  a  "soft" 
suspended  sculpture  (he  used  the  term  pneumatic  in 
describing  his  intention),  using  perhaps  some  sort  of 
inflatable  vinyl  or  plastic  in  biomorphic  configurations. 
Smith  later  discussed  this  idea: 

I  had  wanted  to  do  a  project  that  was  technical  in 
nature  in  that  I  wanted  to  make  a  certain  type  of 
structure  in  which  all  of  the  compressive  elements 
would  be  made  of  air  or  gas  in  compression,  and 
therefore  all  the  materials  would  be  in  tension— that 
is,  whatever  contained  the  air  would  be  in  tension, 
and  then  there  would  also  be  some  lineal  elements, 
also  in  tension. 


Since  none  of  the  corporations  contracted  to  A  &  T 
were  equipped  with  the  kind  of  technology  or  materials 
appropriate  for  the  kind  of  structure  Smith  described  to 
her,  JL  encouraged  him  to  consider  working  with  Con- 
tainer Corporation  of  America.  Tony  seemed  interested 
in  this  possibility  and  mentioned  in  particular  his  long- 
standing interest  in  doing  an  architectural-sculptural 
work  using  fourteen-sided  modules.  It  occurred  to  him 
that  this  might  well  be  executed  in  paperboard. 

Smith  went  to  Aruba  for  several  weeks,  and  then  to  the 
University  of  Hawaii  in  June.  In  the  meantime,  Hal 
Glicksman  investigated  the  possibility  of  soliciting  a 
corporation  that  could  execute  an  inflatable  or  pneu- 
matic sculpture,  but  we  finally  abandoned  the  pursuit. 


At  the  same  time,  we  talked  to  Anthony  Marcin,  Public 
Relations  Manager  of  Container  Corporation  in  Chicago, 
about  collaborating  with  Smith.  Marcin  discussed  this 
with  his  colleagues  and  indicated  that  they  were  enthusi- 
astic. (Several  artists  had  previously  expressed  interest  in 
CCA— specifically  Oyvind  Fahlstrom,  Francois  Dallegret 
and  Les  Levine— but  their  proposals  never  developed 
sufficiently.)  Marcin  was  to  be  unusually  cooperative 
throughout  the  collaboration  and  seems  to  have  been 
directly  responsible  for  many  of  the  important  decisions 
which  enabled  the  project  to  come  to  fruition. 

Smith  stopped  in  Los  Angeles  en  route  to  Hawaii;  he 
discussed  the  work  in  some  detail  with  us,  still  with  an 
idea  of  using  the  fourteen-sided  module.  Then  in  a  letter 
from  Hawaii  of  June  23,  1969,  he  said: 

My  reason  for  temporarily  abandoning  [the  14-sided 
solid]  as  the  module  for  a  piece  is  that  it  would 
become  too  much  of  an  engineering  feat.  I  would 
prefer  to  achieve  esthetic  and  psychological  effects. 
The  ingenuity  of  the  Corporation's  engineering  and 
technical  resources  would  be  called  upon  to  help  me 
achieve  such  results.  As  I  once  said,  in  speaking  of 
Amaryllis  [1] ,  I  wanted  to  make  a  cave.  Since  I  have 
all  the  maquette  components  from  which  I  intended 
to  develop  the  piece  for  the  [Hawaii]  campus,  and  for 
which  I  now  have  no  immediate  use,  I'll  start  to  work 
with  them  today  on  your  project  .... 

The  maquette  modules  referred  to  were  of  two  geo- 
metric configurations— the  tetrahedron  and  the  octa- 
hedron; this  combination  was  to  become  the  basis  for 
the  artist's  final  conception  of  the  piece.  In  speaking 
further  about  the  history  of  his  interest  in  making  a 
cave-like  work.  Smith  said, 

I've  always  had  a  certain  interest  in  caves,  and  one  of 
the  reasons  that  it  was  particularly  important  in  this 
case  was  that  I  had  started  a  series  of  pieces  which 
ended  with  the  making  of  a  piece  called  Gracehoper 
which  is  in  Bennington,  Vermont.  [2]  This  piece  has 


307 


A&T 


certain  inner  forms  that  struck  me  as  not  necessarily 
cave-like  in  themselves,  but  they  suggested  the  idea  of 
making  a  further  piece  in  the  series  which  would 
literally  have  more  of  the  sense  of  a  cave.  Around 
that  time  I  saw  a  photograph  of  an  eroded  part  of  the 
desert  in  Arizona  or  somewhere  in  the  West  and  it 
gave  me  something  of  the  sense  of  the  way  in  which  I 
wanted  to  develop  the  piece.  [3]  Now,  it  would  have 
required  so  many  components  that  I  wanted  to  use 
the  same  parts  that  I  had  used  in  the  previous  piece, 
but  the  model  was  kept  by  the  people  who  built 
Cracehoper  and  I  realized  that  I  didn't  have  the 
energy  to  start  making  the  great  number  of  compon- 
ents that  would  be  necessary  to  start  a  new  model,  so 


I  always  felt  somewhat  frustrated  in  that ....  Crace- 
hoper was  probably  done  in  1962,  and  I  would  have 
made  the  following  piece,  which  I  had  thought  of  as 
more  cave-like,  at  that  time  had  I  had  the  compon- 
ents, but  it's  very  boring  to  make  those  little  parts 
and  so  I  never  did  make  that  piece.  So  it's  just  some- 
thing that  had  been  in  my  mind  for  a  long  time  and 
immediately  before  going  to  Los  Angeles  to  discuss 
this  project  with  Jane  Livingston,  i  had  been  in  Aruba 
and  had  visited  some  bat  caves  there.  I  think  that 
when  we  spoke  of  the  possibility  of  doing  something 
for  the  Container  Corporation,  I  recalled  the  previous 
intention  of  making  a  cave  and  then  coupled  that 
with  the  very  recent  experience  I  had  in  caves  in 


Jf^'" 


":r. 


r-*^ 


'<r 


r'-'^^^V 


iy 


■'!  Jl 


-^ 


''  '*^^     ^- 


^»> 


■<!■ '  /  .^^ 


; 


.  .-♦d 


J-- 


% 


308 


.^^; 


Aruba  [4] ,  so  it  seemed  natural  that  these  two 
thoughts  should  revive  an  interest  in  caves .  .  .  .*  You 
know,  if  I'd  had  to  make  all  those  small  components 
myself,  I  wouldn't  have  done  it— there  are  thousands 
of  pieces  in  that  form  and  unless  the  pieces  were 
stamped  out,  as  they  were  by  the  Container  Corpora- 
tion, I  would  certainly  never  have  done  it  on  my  own. 

Over  the  July  4  weekend,  Pete  Clarke,  a  structural 
engineer  for  CCA  in  Los  Angeles,  and  JL  went  to  Hawaii 
to  see  Tony  Smith.  Smith  had  several  partial  models, 
formed  with  tetrahedra  and  octahedra,  which  served  to 
demonstrate  the  fundamental  principle  of  the  structure. 
Clarke  indicated  that  these  units  could  be  easily  die-cut 
in  flat  corrugated  board  and  then  assembled  individually 
and  built  with  no  lock  joints  or  tabs  (Tony  was  adamant 
about  avoiding  the  use  of  lock  joints)  by  gluing  the  units 
together.  Tony  stressed  that  the  feeling  he  wanted  in  the 
cave  was  of  softness— he  often  made  the  analogy  to  the 
texture  and  color  of  a  wasp's  nest  (and  indeed  presented 
Jane  Livingston  with  a  gift  of  one  months  later).  [5]  He 

*At  one  time.  Smith  considered  titling  the  piece  Guadirikiri,  the 
name  of  a  specific  bat  cave  in  Aruba.  The  work  was  never, 
however,  definitely  titled. 


309 


A&T 


felt  strongly  that  the  natural  brown  color  of  the  board 
should  remain  untreated,  and  that  the  surfaces  should 
retain  the  quality  of  slight  rippling  imparted  by  the 
subsurface  corrugation.  Smith  later  described,  from  a 
technical  point  of  view,  his  original  intentions  for  the 
Container  Corporation  project: 

In  my  work  I  use  small  cardboard  maquettes,  actual 
little  tetrahedra  and  octahedra,  and  I  paste  them 
together  with  tape  in  order  to  arrive  at  the  forms  of 
the  work  ....  When  I  had  worked  on  a  small  scale  in 
the  past,  [the  original  model]  would  be  made  into  a 
model  with  smooth  sides  from  which  the  steel  fabri- 
cator works;  that  way  individual  components  are 
actually  absorbed  in  the  final  work.  But  it  seemed 
that  in  making  something  with  actual  cardboard 
boxes,  I  was  doing  exactly  what  I  do  on  the  small 
scale  and  I  felt  it  might  be  interesting  to  get  the  effect 
of  a  soft  sculpture— that  is,  soft  in  the  sense  of  using  a 
material  that  isn't  durable  or  which  is  relatively 
weightless. 


into  the  work  but  said  in  later  conversation  that  he  was 
not  concerned  with  sound  or  tones  perse,  but  with  the 
sensations  of  hearing  produced  by  vibrations  in  the  air. 
He  was  interested  in  the  phenomenon  encountered  in 
bat  caves,  when  a  person's  entrance  can  prompt  myster- 
ious sonic  waves  and  fleeting  air  displacements  as  the 
bats  are  disturbed.  Smith  investigated  the  state  of 
scientific  knowledge  regarding  this  phenomenon,  and 
located  an  expert  in  La  Jolla,  California. 

It  was  agreed  in  Honolulu  that  Pete  Clarke  would  have 
some  small,  die-cut  units  made  (four  inches  on  a  side)  of 
thin,  white  paperboard,  for  Tony  to  use  in  constructing 
a  mock-up  in  Los  Angeles.  We  were  at  this  point  think- 
ing definitely  of  the  work  for  display  at  Expo,  and  on 
6 


Space  frames  of  the  sort  that  I  use  have  been  used  in 
architectural  structures.  It's  just  that  they've  been 
fabricated  by  using  struts  which  are  joined  at  the 
corners— at  the  meeting  of  the  edges  of  the  elements. 
My  intention  was  to  use  the  complete  component  and 
simply  glue  it— glue  the  surfaces  in  the  way  that  I  had 
been  in  the  habit  of  doing  with  my  [maquette]  units. 
This  actually  is  a  different  type  of  structure  than  a 
structure  which  is  based  on  lineal  elements  or  struts 
which  are  fastened  at  the  joints.  In  other  words,  there 
isn't  any  structure  except  the  components  from 
which  the  form  has  been  made. 


July  17,  sent  Tony  plans  of  the  New  Arts  Section  of  the 
U.S.  Pavilion. 


During  the  Hawaiian  visit,  Tony  talked  of  introducing 
light,  in  shafts,  into  the  cave,  and  gradually  came  to 
emphasize  the  importance  of  special  illumination  in  the 
work.  He  characterized  the  effect  he  visualized  by 
drawing  an  analogy  to  nineteenth  century  stage  lighting: 
Sometimes  one  sees  an  effect— in  caves,  actually,  if 
there's  a  crevice  between  rocks  and  light  comes  in— of 
the  light  entering  in  the  form  of  a  sheet  rather  than  as 
a  beam.  It's  broad  ....  Sometimes  [this  effect]  is 
used  in  the  stage.  There  was  a  great  stage  designer  at 
the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century  by  the  name  of 
Adolphe  Appia  who  did  some  sets  for  Wagner.  He 
used  some  sets  which  were  made  up  almost  entirely 
of  light— that  is,  there  were  no  other  elements  used 
very  much,  and  his  lighting  had  somewhat  the  effect 
of  sheets  of  light.  [6,  Set  for  l\/lime's  Cave,  in  Sieg- 
fried, 1896]  I've  seen  it  on  the  German  stage  also— 
they'll  block  out  a  certain  part  of  the  stage  by  a  kind 
of  curtain  of  light ....  [This  technique]  usually  has 
been  used  in  order  to  create  space— create  planes  of 
space,  receding  planes  of  space. 

Smith  at  one  point  had  thought  of  introducing  sound 


Smith  in  the  meantime  sent  us  some  rather  obscure 
polaroid  shots  of  details  of  modules  fitted  together,  to 
show  us  in  a  general  way  what  he  was  after.  These 
snapshots  proved  to  be  very  revealing  of  Smith's  primary 
intention  for  the  sense  of  the  work. 

In  a  letter  dated  August  1 1,  from  Tokyo,  Smith  said. 
This  is  about  the  polaroid  photographs.  What  is 
shown  is  not  intended  as  the  piece.  It  is  what  a  piece 
of  it  might  be  like.  It  is  made  up  of  about  120  modu- 
lar units  in  the  ratio  of  about  three  tetrahedra  to  two 
octahedra.  I  think  the  final  sculpture  should  have 
more  than  four  times  that  number  of  units— at  least 
500  in  all.  [The  Expo  sculpture  finally  comprised 
2500  units.] 

.  . .  The  girl  who  made  the  components  also  took  the 
pictures,  and,  although  she  has  no  idea  of  what  the 
piece  is  about,  she  insisted  upon  including  several 
photographs  which  she  thought  were  good.  She 
thought  she  had  failed  completely  in  the  close-ups 
taken  the  next  day,  but  they  are  very  close  to  what  I 
really  want .... 


310 


A  funny  thing  happened.  While  my  assistant  was 
making  the  [small  modules] ,  I  decided  that  it  might 
be  better  to  use  an  altogether  different  modular 
unit— that  of  New  Piece  (shown  at  Philadelphia  in 
1966  and  1967).  I  thought  that  this  might  be  an 
opportunity  to  try  out,  on  a  large  scale,  a  system 
which  has  intrigued  me  for  many  years  ....  Then  I 
showed  the  drawing  for  the  [U.S.]  pavilion  and  the 
photograph  of  the  model  to  an  architect  in  Honolulu 
who  had  worked  for  Wright  just  after  I  did.  He 
remarked  on  how  fortunate  it  was  that  the  pavilion 
had  been  designed  on  my  own  triangular  module. 
This  made  me  realize  that  the  other  scheme  [the 
14-sided  design]  would  have  been  impossible! 

In  August,  1969,  the  artist  toured  the  Container  Corpor- 
ation corrugated  plant  in  Los  Angeles.  CCA  had  made 
for  him  two  full-size  corrugated  mock-ups  of  single 
units— one  tetra-  and  one  octahedron,  two  feet  on  a  side, 
with  no  lock  joints,  which  Smith  felt  were  precisely 
right.  Container  Corporation  agreed  to  produce  about 
500  full-scale  units  at  their  Los  Angeles  corrugated 
plant,  for  Tony  to  use  in  making  a  model,  as  well  as 
making  several  hundred  four-inch,  carton-material 
modules.  The  former  commitment  was  never  fulfilled, 


and  thus  Smith  never  actually  worked  with  the  full-sized 
units.  Moreover,  when  the  corrugated  modules  were 
made  en  masse,  they  had  lock  joints.  This  was  in  viola- 
tion of  the  understanding  reached  between  Smith  and 
Pete  Clarke  in  Honolulu,  and  displeased  the  artist  consid- 
erably. 

Tony  remained  in  Los  Angeles  for  about  three  weeks  to 
make  a  small-scale  maquette  for  the  work.  This  was 
erected  on  a  ping-pong  table  he  set  up  in  his  suite  at  the 
Chateau  Marmont.  Several  local  kids  were  pressed  into 
service  folding  modules  and  taping  them  together. 
Somehow  there  were  never  enough  modules.  Two  rush 
deliveries  were  made  during  the  course  of  Tony's  stay 
here,  as  he  used  up  cardboard  units— they  were  rapidly 
swallowed  up  into  the  model  and  a  temporary  dead-end 
would  be  reached— but  the  five  by  seven  foot  model  was 
finally  completed  and  brought  to  the  Museum. 

Tony  returned  to  New  York  in  September  to  resume 
teaching  at  Hunter  College;  he  had  missed  several  classes 
on  our  account. 

In  September,  1969,  Smith,  JL  and  MT  met  for  most  of 
one  day  with  the  Expo  designers  at  their  New  York 
headquarters.  We  were  able  at  length  to  decide  on  a 
space  for  the  work,  after  several  alternative  plans  were 
considered  and  abandoned,  and  it  became  clear  that  a 
new  model  would  have  to  be  made.  It  also  transpired 
that  the  ceiling  height  was  considerably  lower  than  we 
and  the  artist  had  thought— thirteen  rather  than  sixteen 
feet. 

During  our  session  at  the  Design  Team  Headquarters  in 
New  York,  Tony  was  adamant  in  characterizing  the 
work  as  sculpture,  as  opposed  to  architecture.  It  was 
clear  at  this  point  that  he  had  resolved  in  his  own  mind 
the  essential  nature  of  the  work  though  it  still  existed 
only  conceptually.  We  were  all  extremely  concerned 
about  the  problem  of  handling  the  enormous  traffic  flow 
through  the  U.S.  Pavilion,  but  Tony  seemed  to  feel  he 
could  design  the  work  to  accommodate  the  expected 
10,000  visitors  per  hour.  However,  he  did  have  to  make 
important  sacrifices.  He  was  to  say  later, 

My  intention  was  to  make  a  piece  of  sculpture  which 
emphasized  the  negative  space  rather  than  the  posi- 
tive form.  The  other  pieces  I've  done  have  been 
placed  usually  out  of  doors  or  even  if  they're  indoors, 
they  tend  to  be  compact:  I  think  that  even  though 
the  negative  space  has  been  used  in  some  of  them,  the 
main  effect  is  one  of  massiveness.  I  have  always  been 
Interested  in  the  volumes  made  by  the  pieces,  and  I 
felt  that  in  this  case  it  would  give  me  an  opportunity 
to  deal  with  these  negative  spaces  as  the  main  element 
of  the  sculpture  itself.  So  I  set  out  to  do  a  piece 
where  I  was  defining  the  negative  spaces  as  much  as 
possible.  Of  course,  when  I  began,  I  didn't  realize  that 


«Wv-;ii:.i.  ?l;sj 


312 


such  crowds  would  be  involved,  and  so  in  the  end  I 
wound  up  getting  a  space  that's  much  more  architec- 
tural than  what  I  had  hoped  for.  I  had  hoped  to  mold 
much  more  sculptural  space  than  has  actually  re- 
sulted; but  when  I  began  to  learn  about  some  of  the 
problems  of  just  moving  the  people  through  the 
pavilion,  I  had  to  open  the  space  so  as  to  make  what 
is  almost  a  passageway  now— which  wasn't  my  inten- 
tion in  the  first  place.  I  had  intended  to  do  something 
much  more  labyrinthine,  something  which  would 
have  many  choices  of  movement  rather  than  a  guided 
movement.  So  I  think  the  piece  probably  loses  a  good 
deal  because  it  had  to  be  smoothed  out  to  such  an 
extent— I  couldn't  have  any  projections  or  indenta- 
tions on  the  lower  part  of  the  space,  because  people 
could  fall  or  be  pushed  into  places,  and  then  the 
actual  ceiling  height  of  the  pavilion  was  lower  than 
we  had  originally  hoped,  and  again  we  lost  some  of 
the  possibility  of  molding  the  space  above  peoples' 
heads  simply  because  the  ceiling  wasn't  tall  enough  to 
allow  for  it.  So  in  that  sense,  I  think  that  the  space  is 
closer  to  the  space  of  buildings,  perhaps  than  was  my 
intention  originally. 


In  November,  1969,  Tony  received  the  modules  neces- 
sary to  build  his  second,  incredibly  complex  model  for 
Expo.  By  the  end  of  the  month  he  began  work  on  the 
model,  accomplishing  it  in  a  matter  of  days.  [7]  At  this 
point,  through  the  offices  of  Marcin  in  Chicago,  William 
Lloyd,  Chicago-based  manager  of  design  for  Container 
Corporation  of  America,  was  brought  into  the  project. 
Lloyd  visited  Tony  at  his  home  for  one  day  just  before 
the  model  was  crated  for  shipment  to  Expo,  and  on  the 
basis  of  that  meeting  he  was  able  to  direct  the  immense- 
ly laborious  construction  of  the  work  at  Expo  70.  Lloyd 
and  Smith  seem  to  have  quickly  established  a  sense  of 
mutual  trust,  and  Lloyd  thus  made  a  series  of  decisions 
later  for  which  the  final  work  owed  its  existence. 

The  shipment  of  components  to  Expo  consisted  of  the 
model,  several  palletized  fiats  of  precut  cardboard  and 
three  fifty  gallon  drums  of  glue.  Part  of  the  cardboard 
units  were  made  in  Los  Angeles— amounting  to  3000 
tetrahedra  and  1500  octahedra;  the  rest— another  100 
cubic  feet  and  some  3000  pounds  of  cardboard— were 
made  at  the  last  minute  in  Container  Corporation  of 
America's  Cincinnati  plant  and  shipped  from  there  to 
Expo. 


313 


A&T 


314 


315 


A&T 


Bill  Lloyd  and  his  wife  arrived  in  Osaka  February  1 6  to 
begin  the  five-week  process  of  constructing  the  work.  [8] 
(We  had  originally  allowed  two  to  three  weeks  for  this 
task.)  Several  days  and  scores  of  laborers  were  required 
simply  to  fold  and  secure  each  module,  before  the  units 
could  be  taped  together  and  mounted.  The  work  was  half 
completed  by  the  first  week  in  March,  but  it  had  become 
increasingly  apparent  that  the  effect  was  not  at  all 
satisfactory.  The  interior  surfaces  were  uneven  at  best, 
and  the  overall  structure  was  precarious.  It  was  decided 
to  tear  it  down  and  begin  again,  using  an  improvised 
system  whereby  the  previously  insoluble  engineering 
difficulties  were  overcome.  Smith  feels  that  many  of  the 
problems  resulted  from  the  way  in  which  the  modules 
were  made  to  fit  together.  He  said, 

.  .  .  When  the  [Container  Corporation]  engineer  came 
from  Los  Angeles  to  Honolulu  last  summer,  we 
established  in  about  five  minutes  that  the  pieces  were 
going  to  be  glued,  not  put  together  with  lock  joints, 
and  when  he  showed  me  the  mock-ups  in  Los  Angeles 
later,  they  were  as  we  had  decided  to  do  them— they 
were  glued.  And  even  the  shop  drawings  which  they 
gave  me  were  made  in  order  to  be  assembled  by 
gluing;  but  when  Bill  Lloyd  went  there  to  put  the 
piece  together,  they  were  made  with  lock  joints 
rather  than  glued.  That's  why  they  had  to  tape 
them  ....  I  feel  that  [the  lock  joints]  mar  the  piece, 
because  you  see  the  spaces  where  the  lock  joints 
occur,  and  in  the  end  they  had  to  put  tape  over  those 
joints  too.  So  I  think  the  whole  piece  loses  a  good 
deal  by  being  put  together  that  way  ....  I  think  the 
reason  that  the  structure  actually  sagged  or  collapsed, 
whatever  happened  to  it  in  the  course  of  making  it, 
was  because  .  .  .  the  components  weren't  made  as 
they  were  intended  to  be  made. 

The  lighting  of  the  piece  was  achieved  under  the  super- 
vision of  Lloyd  and  the  USIA's  lighting  contractor,  with 
a  view  to  approximating  Smith's  stated  effects  as  closely 
as  possible.  It  was  not  totally  successful.  Smith  stated,  "I 
think  I  wasn't  able  to  convey  to  the  engineer  [Bill 
Lloyd]  the  type  of  lighting  I  wanted.  I  wanted  a  rather 
sheetlike  light,  whereas  from  the  photographs  [of  the 
Expo  work] ,  it  seemed  as  though  they  used  . .  .  two 
spots,  just  two  rather  conical  shaped  lights."  (Actually, 
there  were  four  spots  used.)  When  the  lighting  had  been 
completed,  it  began  to  appear  that  the  cardboard  surface 
was  simply  too  vulnerable,  in  the  sense  that  one  was 
psychologically  drawn  to  touch  the  walls  as  one  walked 
through;  obviously,  under  the  circumstances,  the  work 
could  not  long  withstand  such  handling.  It  was  one  of 
the  Design  Team  members'  suggestion  to  paint  the  entire 
interior  of  the  cave  with  red  or  blue  phosphorescent 
pigments  and  introduce  ultra-violet  light  in  place  of 
incandescent  light,  with  the  notion  that  the  spectators 
would  then  focus  on  the  effects  of  illumination  as  such, 
rather  than  on  the  raw  cardboard  surfaces.  A  call  was 


316 


made  from  Bill  Lloyd  in  Osaka  to  Smith  in  New  Jersey 
to  consult  with  him  on  this  possibility,  and— rather  to 
everyone's  surprise— Smith  was  agreeable.  We  felt  that 
this  alternative  might  well  be  esthetically  calamitous 
suggesting  as  it  could  have  the  multi-media,  electric- 
circus  ambience  rampant  at  Expo  70.  The  work  re- 
mained unpainted,  though  in  the  course  of  the  Fair  its 
interior  was  to  become  densely  covered  with  multi- 
colored international  graffiti.  [9]  The  artist  was  so 
delighted  with  this  fact  that  he  requested  that  all  of  the 
graffiti-embellished  modules  that  could  be  retrieved  be 
returned  to  him  after  the  closing  of  Expo. 

Whether  the  completed  Expo  work  truly  represented  the 
intentions  the  artist  originally  had  in  mind  is  necessarily 
questionable,  since  Smith  did  not  supervise  its  construc- 
tion or  even  see  it  in  Japan.  In  rebuilding  the  structure. 
Smith's  design  was  altered  somewhat  to  strengthen 
certain  spans  which  had  previously  sagged,  and  to  create 
broader  passageways.  Nevertheless,  despite  these  changes 
and  despite  the  impossibility,  for  reasons  of  safety,  of 
darkening  the  interior  as  much  as  the  artist  might  have 
liked,  the  fundamental  feeling  of  the  piece  remained 
remarkably  close  to  that  conveyed  in  the  early  Polaroid 
detail  photos  Smith  had  sent  us,  and  to  the  look  and  feel 
of  both  maquettes. 

Bill  Lloyd,  when  asked  to  comment  later  about  the 
construction  of  the  work  at  Expo,  said  to  JL, 

The  structure  Smith  had  conceived  was  extremely 
challenging.  His  model  was  architecturally  sound;  it 
fit  the  space  perfectly.  And  it  would  have  been  strong- 
er than  the  Pavilion  building  had  we  used  cement 
rather  than  glue  to  build  it. 

Tony  was  right  about  the  disadvantages  of  the  lock 
joints.  I  have  no  explanation  for  the  fact  that  the 
components  were  made  that  way  .... 

The  changes  we  made  were  necessary  because  of  the 
problems  of  traffic.  I  would  say  the  original  model 
was  revised  about  thirty  per  cent.  The  entryway  was 
all  but  eliminated,  there  were  structural  changes  at 
the  exit,  and  the  passageways  were  widened.  It  was 
difficult  ....  To  make  one  little  change,  you  had  to 
alter  as  many  as  thirty  pieces.  Each  piece  acts  as  a 
keystone.  To  widen  one  passageway  took  three  or 
four  hours  of  mathematical  figuring— it  had  to 
support  an  overhead  beam,  etc. 


Despite  the  artist's  reservations  about  the  lighting  of  the 
work,  based  on  photographs  he  saw  of  it,  Lloyd  felt  It 
worked  quite  well.  He  said, 

I  think  the  work  did  finally  accomplish  what  Smith 
wanted  it  to.  This  was  really  due  to  the  lighting. 
Originally,  we  had  one  bank  of  light— that  wasn't 
good.  We  tore  it  out  and  re-lit  it,  with  shafts.  Tony's 


317 


A&T 


318 


plan  for  lighting  would  have  been  too  dim.  People 
would  have  barged  into  walls.  Sure,  we  made  compro- 
mises, but  It  worked. 

The  primary  discrepancy  which  Smith  felt  existed 
between  his  initial  conception  of  the  work  and  its 
manifestation  at  Expo  is  expressed,  aptly,  in  his  words: 
I  feel  that  it's  a  weakness  in  the  piece  that  it  appears 
so  much  like  a  building.  I  would  rather  have  had  .  .  . 
a  greater  diversity  of  spaces  within,  than  the  place 
actually  has;  and  in  that  sense  [more  like]  the  way 
we  think  of  a  cave  as  hollowed  out  rather  than 
something  constructed  as  we  would  construct  some- 
thing with  stones  or  other  masonry  elements.  I  don't 
think  of  It  as  masonry,  although  I  know  that  most 
people  do  associate  it  with  masonry. 

In  planning  for  the  Los  Angeles  exhibition  of  the  Expo 
works,  we  decided  in  April,  1970,  to  give  over  an  entire 
plaza  level  gallery  of  the  Special  Exhibitions  area  for 
Smith's  work.  This  comprises  a  larger  area  than  allotted 
for  any  other  work.  Jane  Livingston  met  with  Smith, 
Lloyd  and  Marcin  in  New  York  In  April,  1970,  to  discuss 


the  sculpture  for  the  Museum  exhibition.  It  was  under- 
stood by  all  of  us  that  the  work  would  be  substantially 
different  from  the  Expo  structure.  Tony  was  pleased  at 
the  prospect  of  having  an  extended  space  within  which 
to  work,  chiefly  because  he  wanted  to  design  the  struc- 
ture as  a  freestanding  entity,  with  several  points  of 
access.  To  demonstrate  the  kind  of  configuration  the 
overall  sculpture  would  have,  he  formed  his  hand  Into  a 
crabbed,  or  grappling  position,  fingers  down  and  bent, 
wrist  high.  He  commented  that  given  a  larger,  freer, 
space,  he  could  accomplish  a  piece  that  would  be  much 
closer  to  his  original  cave  idea  than  what  was  done  at 
Expo.  Smith  and  Bill  Lloyd  discussed  the  desirability  of 
using  a  lighter  and  firmer  material  than  corrugated 
cardboard,  probably  solid  fibre  board,  and  avoiding  lock 
joints.  Thus  It  was  agreed  that  both  Tony  and  CCA 
would  virtually  begin  again  In  designing  and  fabricating 
the  piece  for  Los  Angeles.  We  requested  that  Lloyd 
supervise  the  work's  construction.  As  we  prepare  the 
catalog  for  press.  Smith  Is  working  on  his  new  model. 

Jane  Livingston 


319 


A&T 


Robert  Smithson 

Born  Passaic,  New  Jersey,  1938 
Resident  New  York  City 


320 


In  April  1969  we  invited  Robert  Smithson  to  tour  Kaiser 
Steel  and  American  Cement.  In  May,  he  came  to  Los 
Angeles  and  went  first  with  Gail  Scott  to  Kaiser.  Unlike 
other  artists  who  were  primarily  interested  in  Kaiser's 
steel  mill  products  and  fabrication  capability,  Smithson 
directed  his  attention  to  the  raw  materials  and  processes 
used  in  the  making  of  steel.  The  tour  consisted  of 
climbing  through  giant  mounds  of  limestone,  iron  ore, 
coking  and  power  coal  and  wandering  through  a  vast 
yard  of  slag— the  impure  by-product  of  the  steel  making 
process. 

On  May  22  Smithson  and  GS  visited  American  Cement 
Company  in  Riverside  where,  again,  the  tour  was  un- 
usual. Previous  artists  had  spent  their  time  in  discussions 
with  research  engineers  of  the  Advanced  Technical 
Center,  but  Smithson  wanted  to  see  the  limestone 
mining  facilities.  Consequently,  he  joined  a  tour  for 
company  personnel  into  the  limestone  mine,  was  driven 
around  the  grounds  and  saw  enormous  stockpiles  of  the 
raw  materials  that  go  into  making  cement  and  concrete. 


Smithson's  intention  was  to  execute  a  work  in  one  of 
the  vast  abandoned  caverns  inside  the  mine,  distributing 
masses  of  various  earth  substances— blue  calcite,  pure 
white  limestone,  etc.  The  corresponding  part  of  the 
piece  for  the  exhibition  would  be  fragments  of  the  same 
material  dispersed  on  a  site  on  the  Museum  grounds. 
Another  idea  was  to  construct  a  concrete  building  at  the 
Riverside  location  and  then  demolish  it;  the  Museum 
piece  would  consist  of  the  concrete  fragments.  Smithson 
presented  his  ideas  to  Dr.  Kenneth  Daugherty,  who  was 
to  discuss  them  with  his  superiors.  The  next  day  Smith- 
son  presented  us  with  several  project  drawings,  including 
the  "Dearchitectured  Projects"  for  American  Cement, 
and  a  distributional  project  for  Kaiser  Steel.  [1,2] 

Ken  Daugherty  called  us  to  say  that  American  Cement 
had  just  experienced  an  upheaval  in  corporate  manage- 
ment and  was  no  longer  likely  to  take  any  artist  in 
residence,  and  Kaiser  indicated  its  lack  of  interest  in 
Smithson's  proposals. 


-  ■  / 


I 


321 


A&T 


/Til-?.      3    Sl'f€5     wil/ 
-f  o  T  «•  ■'"'^  •«-*"  / 


''I 


r 


'^     Ml -we 


,,    H'et'i'*!    yi^<At: 


'   '  ■         ,       C(  (  J   )^'  I  °  <-  -  A 


A 


£3      ^-<^-- 


-•-     /  r- 

,      ,.  ^'      •%  v-\  r^    -»,    v/      "7-   C>    C 


cU6-f  -f-^^   Po»-f/o^,.{    re^^<-v.+ ^'i-f^j- 


.-Z-i 


-ir. 


I  t~      CJ. 


rJev^.f^K.^     Co-v.c.€fe    ^-'^  l-<<'■v^J 


. -t 


J=;(-.-^    c'= ''-"^  -  - 


KaV^^ 


/  ■- 


-+■:    , 


i.o-v.^/--'(c  t'^^^- 


f- 


1>    C" 


Z3  .  .  ! 


c .  r-"- , 


KarlheJnz  Stockhausen  Otto  Piene 

Born  Modrath,  Germany,  1928  Born  Laasphe,  Germany,  1928 

Resident  Koln-Bayenthall,  Germany     Resident  New  York  City 


322 


Early  in  1969,  we  consulted  with  Lawrence  Morton,  the 
Museum's  Curator  of  Music,  on  the  possibility  of  inviting 
a  musician-composer  to  work  in  A  &  T.  At  least  one 
corporation,  Ampex,  was  available  and  capable  of 
providing  sound  equipment  of  various  kinds.  Lawrence 
Morton  recommended  that  we  contact  the  German 
composer  Karlheinz  Stockhausen,  and  offered  to  write 
to  him  for  us.  Morton  outlined  for  Stockhausen  the 
nature  of  the  program,  and  inquired  about  his  interest  in 
and  availability  for  participation.  The  composer  was  at 
that  time  living  in  Madison,  Connecticut,  and  from  there 
he  replied  on  February  15, 

.  .  .  one  of  my  projects  is  to  make  open-air  events 
together  with  Otto  Piene,  the  German  founder  of  the 
light-ballet  in  the  ZERO  group.  We  intended  to  work 
together  for  the  World's  Fair  (Expo  70),  and  as  there 
is— at  least  for  the  moment— too  much  inner-German 
politics  involved,  we  are  looking  for  the  next  chance. 
He  is  ...  at  M.I.T.  as  a  member  of  the  visual  research 
group  of  artists  and  has  done  several  open  air  shows 
on  large  fields  with  helium-balloon  sculptures  that 
are  blown  up,  carried,  directed  in  their  movements 
with  the  participation  of  the  public  under  his 
guidance,  and  especially  at  night  the  whole  quality  of 
his  events  becomes  extremely  beautiful.  The  balloons 
(of  strange  shapes,  also  changing  in  shape)  are  filled 
with  colored  gas,  and  huge  light  projectors  are  criss- 
crossing through  the  air  and  playing  with  the  bal- 
loons. Some  are  1200  feet  long:  they  make  wonderful 
movements. 

We  have  met  several  times  during  the  last  months,  and 
what  we  want  to  do  is  this:  combine  sound  (on 
multi-channel  tape)  with  the  movements  of  his 
air-sculptures  in  a  really  meaningful  polyphony.  I 
would  produce  the  sound  material  on  tape  in  my 
studio,  but  in  order  to  perform  this  material  in 
reaction  to  the  sculptures,  I  would  need  various 
electronic  equipment,  and  Ampex  could  indeed 
provide  it.  Piene  and  I  could  perform  together  and  as 
often  as  desired  (2-3  times  per  week).  We  could  do  it 
in  a  place  where  the  sound  does  not  disturb  others 
(small  air  field,  large  plaza  or  whatever  is  good  for  the 
public).  I  am  not  disturbed  by  airplanes. 

Please  tell  Mr.  Tuchman,  he  would  really  have  a 
wonderful  thing,  if  he  can  get  Piene  .... 

In  March,  we  arranged  to  have  both  Stockhausen  and 
Otto  Piene  come  to  Los  Angeles  to  discuss  setting  up  a 
series  of  performances,  of  the  kind  described  by  Stock- 
hausen in  his  letter,  to  take  place  at  the  Museum  during 
the  time  of  the  A  &  T  exhibition.  The  two  artists  spent 
several  hours  looking  at  the  Museum  site  and  environs, 
and  found  a  particular  area  of  the  park,  to  the  North  and 
East  of  the  Museum  buildings,  suitable  for  their  events. 
At  this  point,  having  ascertained  that  both  Piene  and 
Stockhausen  were  interested  in  doing  the  series  of  per- 


formances and  were  willing  to  come  to  Los  Angeles  for 
three  or  four  weeks  at  the  time  of  the  exhibition  to 
prepare  them,  our  problem  became  that  of  finding,  on 
the  one  hand,  the  company  or  companies  to  supply  and 
assemble  the  elaborate  sound  equipment  Stockhausen 
required,  and  on  the  other  to  find  some  way  of  procur- 
ing Piene's  giant  balloons.  We  went  to  considerable 
lengths  to  resolve  these  problems.  In  Piene's  behalf— he 
wanted  several  huge,  colored  ballons  to  hover,  secured 
from  the  ground,  at  heights  of  up  to  50  feet— we  ap- 
proached Goodyear  and  Allied  Products;  none  of  our 
investigations  were  fruitful.  Stockhausen's  requirements 
were  written  up  by  us  so  that  we  could  attempt  to  find 
means  of  fulfilling  them  (Ampex  had  by  this  time  indica- 
ted that  they  were  not  able  to  take  on  the  project,  since 
much  of  the  equipment  needed  was  not  manufactured 
by  them).  The  statement  of  the  composer's  needs  is  as 
follows: 

Sixteen  outdoor  speakers  with  individual  amplifiers 
are  required.  To  give  an  estimate  of  the  power  of  one 
speaker  in  relationship  to  the  space  it  has  to  fill  with 
•  sound,  in  my  experience  a  capacity  of  at  least  400 
watts  per  speaker  is  necessary. 

Twelve  of  the  speakers  will  be  mounted  on  high 
towers  arranged  to  circumscribe  an  oval-shaped  area 
of  about  600  feet  long  by  400  feet  wide,  and  four  of 
the  speakers  will  be  suspended  in  the  central  area  by 
moored,  helium-filled  balloons. 

For  the  reproduction  of  sound,  two  four-channel  tape 
machines  are  needed  with  one-half  inch  or  one  inch 
tape.  The  two  machines  will  be  used  only  for  play- 
back, not  for  recording.  Each  of  the  four  channels  of 
each  machine  will  be  connected  to  an  individual 
group  of  speakers.  Both  of  these  four-channel  ma- 
chines should  be  continuously  variable  in  speed  within 
a  minimum  range  of  two  octaves  (e.g.  3%"  to  15"  per 
second).  The  speed  control  should  be  provided  by 
two  generators  with  continuously  variable  frequencies 
driving  the  motors,  and  special  amplifiers.  The  two 
four-channel  tape  machines  could  be  installed  inside 
the  Museum  buildings,  although  the  sound  projection 
will  take  place  in  the  outdoor  environs  of  the 
Museum. 

In  order  to  control  volume,  rhythm  and  pitch,  a 
control  console  is  required.  For  this  console,  eight 
sliding  potentiometers  are  needed  (like  the 
MAIHAK-W66C  type  which  is  used  in  all  German 
radio  studios)  for  the  eight  independent  sound  chan- 
nels that  are  pre-recorded  on  the  two  four-channel 
tapes. 

At  the  inputs  of  the  eight  potentiometers,  eight  push- 
buttons with  an  on-off  function  are  needed  so  that 
each  channel  can  be  interrupted  by  depressing  the 


323 


A&T 


At  the  inputs  of  the  eight  potentiometers,  eight  push- 
buttons with  an  on-off  function  are  needed  so  that  each 
channel  can  be  interrupted  by  depressing  the  corre- 
sponding button.  Each  pushbutton  should  be  mounted 
on  a  coil  spring,  so  that  the  sound  is  interrupted  only 
while  the  button  is  held  down  (comparable  to  a  Morse 
code  device).  When  each  pushbutton  is  manipulated,  the 
on-off  transition  should  not  produce  any  click.  The  eight 
pushbuttons  are  played  with  two  hands  (eight  fingers) 
by  the  performer,  in  order  to  produce  rhythmic  pat- 
terns, and  the  same  eight  figures  are  manipulating  the 
eight  potentiometers  (distanced  approximately  like 
piano  keys).  The  same  console  houses  two  generators 
(placed  one  to  the  right  and  one  to  the  left  of  the  eight 
potentiometers),  controlling  the  speed  of  the  two  four- 
channel  machines.  Attached  to  each  of  the  generators 
should  be  a  knob  with  180  degrees  turning  radius,  with  a 
semi-circular,  marked  chromatic  scale  of  25  steps  for 
two  octaves,  each  step  being  a  minor  second  in  pitch. 


point  within  one  of  the  circles  of  speakers, 
two  opposite  speakers  of  that  circle  must 
add  up  to  approx.  1 1 0  phon. 

Point  5.   From  sine  waves  to  white  noise,  covering  the 
whole  harmonic  spectrum  in  between. 

Point  6.  The  area  of  the  park,  i.e.  600  by  400  feet; 
this  was  agreed  upon  in  Los  Angeles  and 
Piene  would  certainly  not  agree  to  the  plaza 
area  in  front  of  the  museum.  If  the  above 
mentioned  area  (600'  x  400')  is  the  park, 
then  no  space  outside  of  it  will  be  required. 

Point  7.  Stockhausen  has  never  worked  on  a  project 
of  this  nature  and  magnitude  before,  espec- 
ially what  concerns  the  diffusion  of  sound 
over  a  large  area  outdoors;  perhaps  Altec- 
Lansing  9  foot  speakers  are  suitable. 


The  control  console  will  be  installed  in  a  control  tower 
in  the  center  of  the  area  surrounded  by  speakers.  The 
console  should  have  eight  inputs  for  the  eight  channels 
and  sixteen  outputs,  two  parallel  outputs  per  channel. 

A  meeting  was  held  at  the  Museum  with  several  gentle- 
men from  the  J.B.  Lansing  Company,  a  company  called 
Medico  Electric  (a  subsidiary  of  Ampex)  and  the 
Langevin  Corporation,  in  order  to  obtain  technical  ad- 
vice on  the  quality  and  type  of  speakers  and  other  equip- 
ment, including  the  console,  and  to  perhaps  solicit  the 
companies'  participation  in  the  undertaking.  The  result 
of  that  meeting,  essentially,  was  to  demonstrate  that  the 
expense  and  complexity  of  this  apparently  simple  proj- 
ect were  unexpectedly  great. 

On  the  basis  of  this  meeting,  we  wrote  to  Stockhausen 
for  more  precise  information  to  use  in  projecting  an 
estimate  for  the  equipment.  The  reply,  written  by  a 
friend  of  the  composer's,  Rolf  Gehlhaar,  indicates  the 
magnitude  of  Stockhausen's  intentions: 

Stockhausen  asked  me  to  answer  your  letter: 
Point  1 .  The  complete  loudspeaker  system  should 
effect  a  loudness  comparable  to  that  of  a 
large  orchestra,  ca.  100-1 10  phon  (the  noise 
level  of  the  traffic  on  the  surrounding  streets 
lies,  as  you  know,  fairly  high,  about  60-70 
phon). 

Point  2.  20-15,000  Hz. 

Points.  40-10,000  Hz. 


As  the  project  evolved,  we  realized  that  there  would 
necessarily  be  as  many  as  six  or  seven  different  compa- 
nies involved  in  seeing  it  through,  and  no  one  corpora- 
tion was  in  a  position  to  coordinate  the  process,  or  take 
special  proprietary  interest  in  it.  Under  these  circumstan- 
ces, we  were  unable  to  proceed. 


Point  4.  The  SPL  must  be  great  enough  so  that  a 
sound  that  is  to  be  heard  moving  between 
only  two  loudspeakers  can  actually  be 
perceived  as  doing  so;  this  means  that  at  any 


Takis 

Born  Athens,  Greece,  1925 

Resident  London 


324 


In  February,  1969,  after  MT  had  visited  him  in  New 
York,  Takis  wrote  to  advise  us  of  an  invention  called 
"Sea  Oscillation"  which  he  had  developed  over  the  past 
year  with  the  assistance  of  Professor  Ain  Sonin  of  MIT. 
Takis  inquired  if  we  had  in  A  &  T  a  corporation  capable 
of  excuting  his  proposed  work.  He  sent  the  following 
description  of  the  device,  its  origin  and  practical  uses: 
In  its  actual  state  [this  invention]  is  an  object  of  art, 
thought  of  by  Takis  1957  in  Venice.  The  object  itself 
has  been  executed  by  Takis,  Prof.  Ain  Sonin,  and 
Prof.  Sonin's  assistant.  From  Takis'  observations  in 
Venice  comes  out  that  indeed  the  sea  moves  (oscil- 
lation) even  in  the  calmest  day.  Takis  observed  that 
the  cargo-boats,  loaded  with  bricks  and  stones  in  the 
Venice  channels  were  moving  up  and  down  without 
any  visible  waves  on  the  water  surface.  Takis  thought 
that  this  was  an  interesting  perpetual  energy  which 
could  be  exploited  to  set  in  motion  a  disk  and  then, 
why  not  use  that  motion  to  generate  electrical 
power?  Takis  proposed  his  idea  to  Prof.  Sonin  in 
March  '68  in  Cambridge.  Prof.  Sonin  agreed  and 
stated  that  the  sea  indeed  oscillates  perpetually.  In 
fact  there  are  records  existing  about  the  differences 
of  oscillation  from  every  sea  on  earth,  which  [vary] 
in  the  lengths  of  frequencies  and  in  numbers  per 
minute.  Therefore  we  have  a  perpetual  force  which 
we  could  make  evident  by  creating  a  device,  sensitive 
enough  to  activate  from  these  oscillations.  The 
device,  tested  in  a  part  of  the  Boston  harbor  (Oct.  6, 
1968)  successfully,  rotated  a  disk  perpetually.  The 
device  in  the  actual  state  has  6-13  turns  per  second. 
By  adapting  a  sensitive  dynamo  it  could  generate 
electricity  between  one  and  six  watts.  The  novelty  of 
this  device  is  that,  floating  in  the  sea  it  activates  two 
bodies  in  a  different  rhythm.  One  body  consists  of 
the  main  float,  where  its  own  mechanism  is  attached 
together  with  a  weight  to  keep  it  upright.  The  genera- 
tor could  be  adapted  to  this  mechanism.  The  other 
body  consists  of  a  smaller  float,  as  light  as  possible, 
attached  at  the  end  of  an  arm.  The  length  of  this  arm 
could  be  [varied] ,  according  to  the  length  of  the 
sea-oscillation,  and  by  consequence  this  float  would 
move  independently  and  in  a  different  rhythm  from 
the  main  body.  The  axle  of  a  gear  is  attached  which 
winds  up  the  gear.  When  the  main  body  moves,  it 
moves  the  gear  on  its  axle.  When  the  second  body 
moves,  the  gear  moves  in  the  same  direction  by  its 
own  device.  The  gear  winds  up  a  spring  which,  on  a 
certain  point,  releases  and  transmits  its  own  power  to 
a  free  cylinder  which  is  free  from  the  gear  and  turns 
with  a  speed  which  depends  on  the  power  of  the 
spring.  The  mechanization  of  the  gear  and  the  cylin- 
der is  known  in  simple  mechanics.  The  novelty  of  this 
invention  is  the  fact  that  this  cylinder  is  set  in  motion 
by  two  independently  activating  bodies  through  the 
oscillation  or  the  waves  of  the  sea.  The  practical 
application  of  this  device  could  be  for  many  uses: 


For  charging  batteries,  for  transmitting  directly 
radio-signals,  for  light-houses,  for  illumination  of 
buoys.  The  main  body  could  be  attached  on  a  boat  or 
floating  free  into  the  sea;  it  could  be  fixed  at  the 
shore  (in  that  case  we  would  have  only  one  body  to 
activate  the  gears)  and  having,  as  a  body,  a  mobile 
counter-weight.  The  device,  executed  in  a  bigger  scale 
could  generate  much  more  electricity  to  illuminate 
villages  around  shores.  The  possibility  of  creating 
electricity  with  this  device  has  been  confirmed  by  the 
top  engineer-designer  of  Syivania  Corporation,  Mr. 
Donner,  by  Prof.  Sonin  and  also  in  an  interview 
between  Prof.  Schapiro  and  Takis  by  CBS-Television. 

Takis  and  Prof.  Sonin  made  a  patent  application. 

We  found  no  company  for  Takis,  but  we  have  been 
informed  by  the  artist's  representative,  the  Howard  Wise 
Gallery,  that  in  1969  "the  Treadwell  Corporation  in 
New  York  agreed  to  undertake  the  development  and 
Turning  to  Account  of  the  Device  for  commercial 
applications  as  well  as  for  objets  d'art." 


325 


A&T 


TAKJ'i  ^_  VEN'icB     si 


Sea  Oscillation.  Venice  1957- 

Cambridge  1968 

Drawing 


^  ^.  -^^5  Sj  ^<  (^r^) 


^ 


//uTee7>eerATioio     <3y    ?^c^.  A/^    SokJikj 


^h~     Pc.Vt 


Soa  Oscillation  —  Interpretation 
by  Prolessor  Ain  Sonin, 
Cambridge  1968 
Drawing 


Cc^.  ^^ 


Gerhard  Trommer 

Born  Germany,  1941 
Resident  Wolpburg,  Germany 


326 


During  1969,  Gerhard  Trommer  sent  us  two  project 
proposals.  One  concerned  colored  neon  tubes  that  would 
be  activated  by  the  flow  of  people  In  the  street.  Of  the 
second,  the  artist  wrote,  "This  idea  is  a  color-coded 
highway.  It  is  art  for  driving.  I  think  that  it  is  possible  to 
use  a  highway  or  a  main  road  near  Los  Angeles  for  about 
a  length  of  2000  meters  ....  The  speed  of  the  car  shows 
the  people  the  behavior  of  this  color  coded  road." 


£lMX,  4 


lii^C  I 


DrivfLA  (iftt(Ji 


/bi^ol< 


l^f"Cl>^^^ 


0{CLcU 


l^r€ut-c 


^/i 


Oiju 


K/Mn^ 


6£i4c 


b/cLcA 


blt^j. 


^(acA 


yM-Crvj 


b^i. 


______ — t— 


y<^«v  ®; 


Cy^-tt^H. 


^<6Ccrvyj 


/^ 


UAik        hla^ck 


6  feu,         \'/<£lc^ 


"^^Mo^ 


CytCi^U. 


hfdok 


bi^/^ 


y^^ 


hl(lU^ 


James  Turrell 

Born  Los  Angeles,  1943 
Resident  Venice,  California 


Victor  Vasarely 

Born  Pecs,  Hungary,  1908 
Resident  Paris 


A&T 


See  Irwin  section,  page  127 


Before  going  to  Europe  in  the  Fall  of  1968,  MT  wrote  to 
Victor  Vasarely  in  Paris  to  inform  him  of  the  A  &  T 
project,  mentioning  specifically  IBM,  and  to  arrange  an 
appointment  to  see  the  artist  in  his  studio.  By  the  time 
MT  met  with  the  artist  in  October,  Vasarely  had  written 
up  a  proposal  for  an  art  work  involving  computer  tech- 
nology. The  statement  he  formulated  for  us  is  as 
follows: 

From  my  youth,  impregnated  with  the  teachings  of 
Bauhaus,  I  have  felt  a  strong  attraction  for  the  linear 
and  corpuscular  structures.  My  past  studies,  namely 
Tigres,  Zebras,  Martiens,  and  Echiquiers  bear  witness. 

In  1953  begins  my  Kinetic  period  in  black  and  white 
where  the  structures  are  freely  developed.  At  this 
time,  my  thoughts  are  taken  up  with  the  idea  of  a 
binary  plastic  language  which  could  be  introduced 
into  an  electronic  circuit. 

Towards  1960,  my  method  of  plastic  units  exists  in 
its  final  form,  a  method  I  have  developed  in  numer- 
ous works  and  writings.  The  application  of  this  binary 
black  and  white,  positive-negative  system  to  the  wider 
field  of  colour  and  monochromic  games  revealed  a 
mine  of  riches  hitherto  unsuspected.  The  Folklore 
Planetaire  (1962),  Permutational  (1965)  series  and 
also  the  more  recent  1966  structures  based  on  the 
perspectivist  and  axonometric  hexagon  are  represen- 
tative of  this. 

I  now  have  in  my  possession  a  matchless  primer  for 
combining  plastic  units  and  I  become  more  and  more 
involved  in  my  studies  in  cybernetics.  In  fact,  as  of 
this  period  all  my  works  are  programmated;  colours, 
tones  and  forms  all  being  reduced  to  a  simple  code. 

My  attention  is  drawn  to  the  possibility  of  creating  an 
electronic  machine  working  in  collaboration  with 
persons  specialized  in  this  field.  What  a  formidable 
and  costly  enterprise!  My  first  contacts  are  encourag- 
ing but  it  is  difficult  to  get  assistance  and  the  delays 
are  long. 

But  what  exactly  is  this  proposed  device?  It  is  a  large 
lumino-cybernetic  screen  that  can  send  out  millions 
of  different  colour  combinations.  Practically  speak- 
ing, in  my  mind  I  see  a  metallic  box  about  312.5cm  x 
312.5cm  with  a  depth  of  10  to  20cm  varying  accord- 
ing to  necessity. 

This  box  is  subdivided  into  a  net-work  of  625  com- 
partments each  measuring  12.5  x  12.5cm  and  each 
containing  a  circle  10cm  in  diametre.  This  structure 
of  squares  as  well  as  the  individual  circles  therein 
should  be  made  of  thin  solid  metallic  strips  about  V^  a 
millimetre  thick.  This  infra-structure  contains  the 
multi-coloured  electric  device  which  functions  by 
electronics  and  a  complementary  rheostat. 


328 


I  Start  with  six  basic  colours,  RED,  BLUE,  GREEN, 
MAUVE,  YELLOW  and  GREY.  Each  colour  is 
subdivided  into  12  tones  which  makes  72  colour 
variations.  Each  individual  compartment  must  be  able 
to  put  out  alternatively  the  72  color  variations.  It  is 
the  perfect  isolation  of  the  compartments  (and  of 
course  the  circles  in  them)  and  the  opaque  screen  that 
renders  the  tones  clearly  and  makes  them  visible. 
Taking  as  a  base  any  one  of  my  programmations,  we 
are  now  able  to  recreate  the  work  and  a  countless 
number  of  other  compositions  the  machine  proposes. 
In  this  way,  the  limitations  due  to  the  artist's  method 
of  working  in  a  studio  would  be  overcome. 

There  are  enormous  possibilities.  Firstly,  by  filming 
the  pictures  projected  on  the  screen,  we  can  compile 
a  repertory  of  composition  references  which  is 
inexhaustible.  The  artist  chooses  among  the  best  of 
the  compositions  the  machine  has  proposed  and  then 
recreates  the  work  in  the  form  of  a  painting,  a  tapes- 
try, a  serigraph,  a  fresco,  a  stage  setting,  a  setting  for 
a  film  or  television. 

Without  a  doubt  the  most  important  of  the  possibil- 
ities the  machine  offers  is  that  involving  architectonic 
experimentations.  The  requirements  are  immense  for 
the  integration  of  plastic  beauty  in  future  construc- 
tions be  it  a  question  of  urban  or  rural  habitat  or 
public  monuments.  Based  on  the  Informatic  and  the 
Prospective,  the  prefabrication  of  polychrome  ele- 
ments for  architecture  cannot  be  decided  without 
bringing  in  cybernetics.  This  will  interest  many 
technical  branches  such  as  construction,  chemical 
dyes,  synthetics  without  mentioning  traditional 
materials  such  as  metals,  glass,  cement  or  ceramics. 


Lastly,  thanks  to  our  machine,  we  will  be  able  to 
conduct  human  experiences  of  the  highest  impor- 
tance in  the  domain  of  Experimental  Psychology.  In 
offering  this  spectacle  to  the  masses  and  in  asking 
them  to  express  their  preferences,  we  will  obtain 
statistic  truth  of  esthetic  values  of  an  entire  popula- 
tion. From  this  time  on,  art  can  freely  enter  the 
general  circuit  of  production-consumption. 

MT  returned  to  Los  Angeles  at  the  end  of  October,  and 
immediately  contacted  Dave  Heggie,  our  contact  man  at 
IBM,  about  Vasarely's  proposal.  IBM's  initial  response  to 
the  Vasarely  idea  was  to  convey  definite  interest;  we 
hoped  they  would  send  an  engineer  to  Paris  to  talk 
directly  with  the  artist,  but  they  elected  first  to  study 
the  written  statement  in  terms  of  a  cost  estimate  for  its 
realization  before  involving  themselves  more  deeply.  The 
figure  they  arrived  at  was  about  $2,000,000;  this  was 
regarded  as  prohibitively  high,  and  they  declined  to 
pursue  it  further. 

We  then  submitted  the  Vasarely  proposal  to  RCA  and 
Teledyne  for  study.  RCA  kept  the  matter  pending  for 
months  without  making  a  definite  statement  as  to  their 
possible  willingness  to  execute  such  a  work,  and  finally 
replied  negatively,  again  on  the  basis  of  the  expense 
represented.  Teledyne  analyzed  the  proposal  carefully, 
and  even  suggested  a  way  of  executing  the  work  which 
might  be  within  reasonable  technical  means  to  pursue, 
but  by  the  time  this  developed,  that  company  was 
already  in  collaboration  with  Robert  Rauschenberg. 

By  the  Fall  of  1969,  a  year  after  our  original  connection 
had  been  made  with  Vasarely,  we  wrote  to  inform  him 
finally  that  we  were  unable  to  elicit  a  commitment  to 
fabricate  his  proposed  work  under  A  &  T. 


Stephan  Von  Huene 

Born  Los  Angeles,  1932 
Resident  Los  Angeles 


Peter  Voulkos 

Born  Bozeman,  Montana,  1924 
Resident  Berkeley,  California 


A&T 


After  hearing  about  A&T,  Los  Angeles  sculptor 
Stephan  Von  Huene  approached  us  with  a  particular 
request  for  technical  assistance.  For  some  time  he  had 
wanted  to  execute  a  completely  transparent  musical 
sculpture,  using  a  fluidic  generating  system  running 
through  glass  components.  The  idea  was  to  have  music 
mysteriously  emanating  without  visible  mechanical 
movements.  To  design  and  construct  such  a  piece  he 
needed  a  corporation  dealing  in  fluidic  mechanics  and 
having  glass  blowing  facilities.  We  contacted  Dr.  Robert 
Meghreblian  at  JPL  who  informed  us  that  although  they 
were  conducting  experiments  using  fluidics,  they  had  no 
facility  for  extensive  production  of  glass  components. 


Peter  Voulkos,  at  our  invitation,  toured  the  Vernon 
plant  of  Norris  Industries.  He  was  impressed  by  their 
steel  forming  capabilities,  specifically  the  enormous 
hydraulic  presses  for  steel  extrusion  and  numerous 
machine  shops  for  other  metal  forming  processes. 
However,  he  declined  to  work  at  the  Vernon  plant 
because  of  its  involvement  with  military  contracts; 
casings  for  nuclear  warheads  are  one  of  the  principle 
products  of  this  Norris  facility.  We  called  G.  P.  Eichels- 
bach,  Vice-President  of  the  firm  and  our  main  contact, 
suggesting  that  another  division  might  be  a  more  suitable 
location  for  collaboration,  in  particular  the  Thermador 
division  in  Walnut,  which  manufactures  porcelain  and 
ceramic  coated  steel  products.  After  checking  with  the 
manager  of  that  division  Eichelsbach  agreed  to  make 
available  the  Thermador  plant.  However,  when  we 
informed  Voulkos  of  this  development,  he  was  disin- 
clined to  participate,  due  primarily  to  his  teaching 
commitments. 


Andy  Warhol 

Born  Philadelphia,  1930 
Resident  New  York  City 


330 


By  the  end  of  1968  several  of  the  corporations  contracted 
to  A  &  T  produced  or  used  laser  equipment  and  thus  had 
the  capability  of  making  holograms.  We  had  received 
several  proposals  from  younger  artists  wanting  to  work 
with  holography,  but  these  struck  us  as  being  potentially 
uninteresting,  too-literal  approaches  to  a  technique 
which,  by  its  very  novelty  and  exoticism,  presented 
pitfalls.  MT  had  for  some  time  thought  of  this  medium 
in  connection  with  Andy  Warhol.  In  February  1969, 
Warhol  visited  Los  Angeles  for  several  days  and  met  with 
us  to  investigate  corporations.  We  mentioned  to  him  the 
notion  of  working  with  lasers  to  make  3-D  images,  and 
Warhol  was  distinctly  intrigued.  At  that  time,  there  was 
an  exhibition  of  self-portrait  holograms  by  Bruce  Nau- 
man  at  the  Nicholas  Wilder  Gallery  which  Warhol  saw 
with  us;  Warhol  seemed  quite  taken  with  Nauman's 
images,  and  this  served  for  us  as  a  reference  point  in 
visualizing  the  kind  of  effect  he  might  pursue. 

We  arranged  for  Warhol  to  visit  RCA's  Burbank  division. 
This  proved  rather  unfruitful  in  terms  of  concrete  media 
that  might  be  explored.  Just  before  Warhol  returned  to 
New  York,  he  and  his  entourage  toured  Ampex's  Red- 
wood City  facility  accompanied  by  Dr.  Charles  Spitzer. 
The  examples  of  holography  available  there  were  not 
particularly  striking,  especially  in  terms  of  scale.  The 
most  interesting  aspect  of  that  visit  was  a  demonstration 
video  tape  recently  produced  by  Ampex  which  showed 
various  special  effects  in  video  cutting,  etc. 

On  Warhol's  return  to  New  York,  we  sent  him  some 
literature  on  holography  and  annual  reports  from  Am- 
pex and  Hewlett-Packard  which  he  read.  Andy  then  had 
constructed,  at  his  expense,  a  series  of  mock-ups  with 
which  some  sort  of  3-D  image  might  be  combined.  We 
had  only  a  remote  conception  of  what  these  were  about 
until  some  weeks  later  when  in  April,  1969,  Jane  Living- 
ston went  to  New  York  and  saw  the  three  mock-ups  at 
Warhol's  studio.  In  one  of  them,  small  polyethelene 
particles  were  agitated  in  a  circular  motion  by  air  blow- 
ers to  simulate  whirling  snow  flakes;  this  was  encased 
between  two  glass  faces  embedded  in  an  approximately 
six  by  eight  foot  rectangular  wood  frame.  There  was  also 
a  rain  machine  of  similar  size,  but  not  enclosed  by  glass; 
it  consisted  of  a  simple  pump  system  through  which 
water  circulated,  falling  in  strands  from  apertures  in  a 
top  section  of  pipe  into  a  trough  concealed  beneath  an 
artificial  grass  bed.  The  rain  was  side  lighted  to  create  an 
effect  of  sparkling  beads.  There  was  also  a  wind  ma- 
chine, simply  a  wooden  box  encasing  an  air  blower.  Each 
of  these  was  intended  to  work  in  conjunction  with  a  3-D 
image;  behind  the  rain,  for  example,  would  be  a  holo- 
gram or  video  screen;  the  snow  machine  would  incorpor- 
ate a  holographic  image  in  the  center,  through  and 
around  which  the  plastic  flakes  would  circulate;  the 
wind  machine  would  vibrate  and  a  3-D  holographic 
sphere  would  vibrate  as  well.  At  this  point  Warhol  had 


no  set  conviction  about  what  the  images  might  repre- 
sent, and  when  pressed  spoke  vaguely  about  simple 
geometric  shapes  such  as  a  sphere  or  cube. 

By  the  time  Warhol  was  really  committed  to  the  project, 
the  only  contracted  corporation  able  or  prepared  to 
execute  an  elaborate  holographic  display— Hewlett-Pack- 
ard—was  already  engaged  in  collaboration  with  Rockne 
Krebs.  Even  Hewlett-Packard  could  perhaps  not  have 
produced  holograms  in  large  enough  scale  for  Andy's 
requirements.  Thus  we  turned  to  investigate  a  medium 
recently  seen  on  postcards— plastic  3-D  printing— with  a 
view  to  substituting  this  kind  of  image  for  holography  in 
Warhol's  project. 

In  June  1969,  Hal  Glicksman,  at  the  request  of  MT, 
made  a  study  of  various  3-D  printing  techniques.  Ac- 
cording to  Hal's  report,  dated  June  17,  1969, 

The  first  commercial  process  for  3-D  printing  was 
developed  by  a  Los  Angeles  inventor  named  Sam 
Leach  who  worked  with  Eastman  Kodak  and  Hall- 
mark cards.  The  first  process  was  called  PID— Printing 
in  Dimension.  Hallmark  now  holds  the  patents  for  the 
process  and  grants  licenses  under  the  name  Visual 
Impact.  In  this  process  the  image  is  printed  on  the 
back  of  lenticular  plastic.  The  lenticular  plastic  is 
made  by  Rowland  Products,  Inc.  Rowland  also  makes 
patterned  plastic  with  the  appearance  of  depth  called 
Rowlux.  They  do  not  do  any  3-D  printing  themselves. 
Large,  back-lit  3-D  pictures  are  made  by  several 
manufacturers  under  license  from  Visual  Impact. 
They  require  a  very  thick  lens  and  are  very  expensive. 
The  image  is  usually  a  transparency  on  film,  not 
printed.  These  are  made  by  Three  Dimensionals  Inc., 
3764  Beverly  Blvd.,  L.A.  90004,  Harvey  Prever. 
(Mostly  religious  subjects  sold  door  to  door  for  $1.00 
each.)  This  process  is  suited  to  unique  items  and  large 
sizes.  Prever  claims  to  have  worked  three  by  six  feet; 
also  Victoria  Productions,  'Veraview,'  New  York. 

The  Cowles  Communications  process  is  called  Visual 
Panagraphics.  Their  representative  is  Stan  Harper, 
presently  in  Boulder,  Colorado,  but  will  be  at  5670 
Wilshire  Boulevard,  California,  after  July  10.  Harper 
also  knows  a  great  deal  about  the  other  processes  and 
people  in  3-D.  The  Cowles  process  utilizes  a  similar 
camera,  lenses,  etc.  to  original  Visual  Impact  process, 
but  Cowles'  process  prints  the  picture  directly  on  the 
magazine  stock  and  then  coats  the  image  with  plastic 
and  embosses  the  lenticular  screen  on  instead  of  a 
thick  pasted  on  addition.  It  is  also  much  cheaper  in 
the  million  plus  range  of  magazine  printing.  Stan 
Harper  claims  the  next  issue  of  Venture  will  be  much 
higher  quality  because  of  new  lenses  and  new  300  line 
screen.  Harper  will  send  samples  and  investigate  the 
cost  and  feasibility  of  larger  images.  Cowles  might  be 
willing  to  sponsor  us ...  . 


331 


A&T 


There  are  several  Japanese  3-D  processes— all  are 
variations  of  the  Visual  Impact  (Hallmark)  process. 
The  Japanese  cannot  photograph  in  the  U.S.  because 
of  U.S.  Patents,  but  they  can  ship  finished  pictures  to 
the  U.S 


In  late  June,  1969,  we  made  contact  with  Allen  F. 
Hurlburt,  Director  of  Design  for  Cowles  Communica- 
tions in  New  York  [1] ;  Hurlburt  had  worked  with 
Warhol  in  the  past  and  was  in  principle  enthusiastic 
about  joining  with  A  &  T  to  collaborate  with  Warhol. 
From  the  beginning  of  our  contact  with  Hurlburt  it  was 
understood  that  the  project  would  be  considered  for 
display  at  Expo.  Warhol,  for  his  part,  was  definitely 
interested  in  the  3-D  printing  process,  though  it  is  of 
course  entirely  different  from  holography  and  required  a 
rethinking  of  his  work.  Cowles  joined  A  &  T  as  a  Spon- 
sor Corporation  in  July. 

Allen  Hurlburt  wrote  to  Andy  Warhol  on  July  3,  1969, 
I  have  talked  to  Maurice  Tuchman  and  he  tells  me 
that  you  are  interested  in  working  with  us  on  the  Art 
and  Technology  project. 

You  have  had  a  brief  look  at  our  Xograph  facilities 
and  whenever  you  are  ready  to  make  use  of  this 
equipment,  I  would  like  to  work  closely  with  you  so 
that  we  can  produce  the  effects  you  want.  Cowles  is 
also  prepared  to  assist  you  in  the  construction  and 
fabrication  you  may  need  to  complete  the  art. 

If  it  would  he  helpful  for  me  to  come  to  your  studio 
and  go  over  the  material  at  any  time,  I  would  happy 
to  do  so. 


On  July  15,  Hurlburt  wrote  to  MT, 

Here's  the  signed  contract  for  our  involvement  with 
you  and  Andy  Warhol  on  Art  and  Technology. 

I  have  seen  Andy's  construction  (the  rain  machine) 
and  both  he  and  Harold  Glicksman  have  had  a  look  at 
our  facilities  here.  We  are  interested  and  anxious  to 
use  these  facilities  in  any  way  we  can. 

I  am  only  concerned  about  one  thing— the  nature  of 
Andy's  project  does  involve  outside  construction 
which  cannot  be  controlled  by  us.  I  would  hope  that 
we  would  only  be  required  to  spend  a  reasonable 
amount  (a  few  thousand  dollars)  in  this  area.  I  don't 
wish  to  place  any  limitation  on  the  potential  of  this 
work  of  art  but  I  do  hope  there  is  a  way  of  keeping 
this  under  control. 


I  am  very  excited  about  the  possibilities  of  this 
collaboration  and  we  will  make  every  effort  to  bring 
it  to  a  successful  conclusion. 


332 


By  August,  when  the  collaboration  had  been  officially 
underway  for  about  a  month,  Warhol  and  Hurlburt  had 
still  not  decided  upon  what  kind  of  image  should  be 
depicted.  Andy  asked  us  to  suggest  ideas  for  images  to 
him.  The  notion  of  using  a  flower,  or  flowers,  to  be 
photographed  and  repeated  serially,  was  presented  to 
Andy  and  Hurlburt.  Andy  liked  the  idea  and  decided  to 
follow  it  through.  Cowles  then  photographed  a  number 
of  colored,  plastic  flowers  against  beds  of  artificial  grass 
and  plastic  foliage,  in  various  formats  measuring  about 
four  by  six  inches.  In  September,  1969,  a  meeting  was 
held  at  the  Cowles  New  York  office  with  Hurlburt, 
Warhol,  David  Sutton  (representing  the  USIA  Expo 
Design  Team)  and  us.  The  3-D  flower  photos  made  by 
Cowles  for  Andy  to  compare  were  shown,  and  one  of 
them— four  daisies  against  green  foliage— was  selected 
more  or  less  on  the  basis  of  communal  preference,  with 
Warhol's  agreement.  [2] 

The  following  memo  was  sent  September  19  from  Allen 
Hurlburt  to  Messrs.  Andy  Warhol,  MT,  Jack  Masey,  Ivan 
Chermayeff,  Don  Dorming,  Ron  Glazer,  David  Sutton: 
Subject;  Art  and  Technology  Meeting 

Held  Sept.  18,  1969  at  Cowles  Communica- 
tions, Inc. 

This  meeting  was  held  to  review  the  progress  on  the 
A  &  T  project,  and  to  determine  future  plans  in 
assisting  Andy  Warhol  in  the  development  of  an  art 
work  for  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art 
program,  and  the  exhibition  to  take  place  at  Expo  70 
in  Osaka,  Japan. 

Several  photos  taken  in  the  3-D  process  were  exhibi- 
ted and  one  showing  a  group  of  four  daisies  was 
selected.  It  was  agreed  that  this  image  would  be 
reproduced  in  quantity. 

It  was  generally  agreed  that  the  images  should  be 
mounted  on  a  curved  panel  behind  the  curtain  of  rain 
provided  by  the  rain  machine.  There  was  some 
discussion  about  three  options  for  the  construction  of 
final  work  of  art.  These  were: 

1 .  Construction  of  a  mock-up  In  New  York  to  be 
later  duplicated  in  Osaka. 

2.  Determination  of  a  plan  by  experimentation  here 
but  without  a  mock-up. 

3.  The  development  of  a  total  construction  in  New 
York  that  would  be  transportable  to  Osaka  and 
wherever  else  the  art  work  might  be  exhibited. 

There  was  general  agreement  that  the  third  alternative 
was  best  if  problems  such  as  costs,  construction  and 
mobility  could  be  solved.  It  was  agreed  that  Mr. 
Masey  and  Mr.  Sutton  would  pursue  the  feasibility  of 
this  approach  and  procure  estimates  of  its  cost. 


In  the  meantime,  Cowles  Communications,  Inc.  has 
agreed  to  cover  the  cost  and  assume  the  risk  of  3-D 
reproductions.  We  must  receive  and  approve  an 
estimated  cost  of  construction. 

The  rain  machine  through  which  the  panels  of  3-D 
images  would  be  viewed,  it  was  then  agreed,  would  be 
contracted  to  the  New  York  firm  Today's  Displays  to  be 
designed  and  built;  Today's  Displays  would  also  design 
the  panels  themselves  and  secure  the  Cowles  images  to 
them. 

This  letter  was  sent  from  Joe  Grunwald  of  Today's 

Displays  to  MT,  Sept.  26,  1969: 

As  explained  to  me  by  Mr.  Warhol  and  Mr.  Sutton, 
there  are  three  possible  interpretations  of  the  basic 
idea,  the  most  economical  of  which  would  be  a 
straight  wall  approximately  12'  high  x  approx.  18' 
long,  covered  with  three-dimensional  photos  provided 
to  us. 

For  this  wall  we  have  budgeted  the  amount  of  $2,000 
to  $3,000. 

The  next  possibility  would  be  a  curved  wall,  approx. 
12'  high  and  approx.  25'  long.  Again  this  wall  would 
be  covered  with  three-dimensional  photographs 
provided  to  us.  The  budget  for  this  would  be  $3,000 
to  $4,000. 

The  de  luxe  possibility  would  be  to  cover  both  walls 
of  the  21'  triangle  or  a  total  of  42',  again  1 2'  high, 
with  zigzags  of  approx.  11"  depth.  These  zigzags  to 
be  covered  with  three-dimensional  photos  provided  to 
us.  The  budget  for  this  would  be  $7,000  to  $8,000. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  is  the  'rain  machine'  which 
would  cover  the  21'  front  of  the  area.  Again  there  are 
various  possibilities  of  realizing  the  basic  idea.  A 
minimum  budget  for  this  would  be  approx.  $5,000.— 

However,  due  to  complexities  of  possible  require- 
ments in  water  pressure,  use  of  one,  two  or  three 
possible  rows  of  jets  and  quantity  of  water  involved, 
this  item  could  go  as  high  as  $8, 000- $10,000. 

At  various  stages  in  the  development  of  Warhol's  project 
with  Cowles,  Andy  prompted  Hurlburt,  Grunwald  and 
us  to  develop  alternative  possibilities  for  the  work.  In 
each  case— in  the  development  of  the  photographic 
images,  the  rain  machine  and  the  constructed  environ- 
ment for  these— Andy  would  view  the  alternatives  and 
choose  among  them.  Andy  continually  placed  us  in  the 
position  of  weighing  the  merits  and  disadvantages  of 
numerous  possibilities.  Sometimes  he  would  discard 
altogether  our  proposal— as  for  example,  in  the  case  of 
the  rain  machine,  which  we  visualized  as  an  enclosed  and 


333 


A&T 


334 


sophisticated  mechanism,  and  which  he  decided  should 
be  presented  crudely. 


In  November  1969,  MT  met  in  New  York  at  the  St. 
Moritz  with  Warhol  and  Joe  Grunwald.  It  was  decided 
not  to  adopt  any  of  the  three  proposals  outlined  in 
Grunwald's  September  26  letter  regarding  the  shape  and 
size  of  the  rear  panel,  but  instead  to  build  five  separate 
panels,  each  four  by  eight  feet.  The  key  question  was 
how  to  dispose  the  panels  when  the  work  was  installed. 
Warhol  was  encouraged  to  make  a  series  of  drawings 
showing  several  possible  arrangements  of  the  panels,  but 
he  resisted  having  to  work  that  way.  He  finally  said  to 
MT  that  he  would  prefer  having  the  five  units  placed  in  a 
random  arrangement,  or,  failing  that,  in  simply  a  flat 
plane,  abutting  each  other.  It  was  agreed  that  MT  would 
use  his  own  discretion  at  installation  time  in  placing  the 
panels.  The  other  important  factor  discussed  in  that 
meeting  involved  the  rain  machine.  Warhol  favored  the 
idea  of  producing  two  parallel  layers  of  water,  and 
having  the  water  move  in  a  swishing  manner,  side  to  side, 
as  opposed  to  creating  a  single  screen  of  water  pouring 
from  a  row  of  evenly  spaced  nozzles.  Grunwald  planned 
accordingly  to  execute  the  more  elaborate,  two-layered 
system. 


335 


A&T 


It  occurred  to  Warhol  at  this  time  that  he  liked  the  idea 
of  simply  displaying  the  rain  producing  mechanism 
forthrightly,  rather  than  encasing  the  pipes  and  trough  in 
a  wooden  structure,  as  he  had  in  his  earlier  small  model. 

One  of  the  artist's  reasons  for  this  decision  had  to  do 
with  his  attitude  about  the  3-D  printed  images  as  such. 
He  had  said  to  IVIT,  "You  know,  this  3-D  process  isn't  all 
that  glamorous  or  new  or  exciting."  He  wanted,  there- 
fore, to  present  the  images  in  conjunction  with  a  naked, 
unembellished  and  inelegant  structure  so  that  they 
would  reveal  themselves— maybe  perversely— in  their 
rather  vulgar  and  certainly  imperfect  quality.  His  original 
idea  for  the  holograms,  to  be  seen  hazily  through  water, 
or  snowflakes,  or  vibrating  and  out  of  focus,  held  over  in 
his  approach  to  the  3-D  printed  images:  he  had  wanted, 
in  his  word,  a  "ghostly"  effect.  However,  the  reality  of 
the  situation  by  the  time  the  daisy  pictures  and  rain 
machine  were  visualized  together,  fell  short  of  this  vision 
of  ghostliness.  Warhol  thus  adapted  his  approach  to  a 
changed  esthetic. 

Based  on  these  decisions  Today's  Displays  began  work 
on  the  project.  We  felt  it  would  have  been  helpful  for 
them  to  build  a  mock-up  for  Andy's  approval  before 
constructing  the  final  mechanism,  but  there  was  no  time 
to  do  this  and  meet  the  Expo  deadline. 

Perhaps  the  most  important  decisions  determining  the 
work's  final  appearance  in  the  U.S.  Pavilion  at  Expo 
were  made  not  by  Warhol  but  by  IVIT,  the  Expo  Design 
Team  members,  and  some  of  the  other  artists  in  the 
show.  The  entire  installation  operation  was  characterized 
by  a  sense  of  crisis,  and  there  were  moments  when  the 
piece  seemed  simply  destined  to  ignominious  failure.  In 
the  end,  somehow,  it  worked:  many  people  and  particu- 
larly the  artists  who  were  there  installing  their  own 
pieces,  felt  the  Warhol  to  be  one  of  the  most  compelling 
works  in  the  exhibition  because  of  its  strangely  tough 
and  eccentric  quality.  Robert  Whitman  commented  that 
"of  course  Andy's  forcing  everyone  into  the  act;"  the 
work  itself,  when  completed,  made  that  conspicuously 
evident,  and  yet  it  was  unmistakably  Warhol.  When  it 
was  rumored  at  one  point  just  before  the  opening  of 
Expo  that  the  work  might  be  taken  out  of  the  show,  as 
was  suggested  by  several  of  the  Expo  Designers  and  by  a 
visiting  critic  who  was  conversant  with  Warhol's  oeuvre, 
the  American  artists  who  by  this  time  knew  the  piece 
intimately  objected  strenuously. 

Virtually  every  stage  in  the  assembling  of  the  work  was 
problematic.  The  question  of  how  best  to  distribute  the 
five  image-faced  panels  presented  major  difficulties.  A 
"random"  placement  was  tried  and  failed  totally.  At  one 
point,  they  were  to  be  arranged  horizontally,  one  atop 
the  other,  in  a  single,  flat  plane;  only  four  could  be 
accommodated  in  the  space,  but  this  was  judged  to  be 
the  unavoidable  solution,  since  the  purpose  was  to 


336 


de-emphasize  a  certain  unevenness  in  the  rows  of  images 
caused  by  faulty  gluing.  However,  something  seemed 
profoundly  amiss,  and  was.  The  effect  of  three- 
dimensionality  would  have  been  completely  lost,  since 
the  parallel,  raised  striations  in  the  plastic  segments, 
which  create  the  visual  illusion  of  depth,  cease  to  func- 
tion optically  when  turned  90  degrees.  Other  alternatives 
were  tried,  and  finally  the  panels  were  placed  vertically, 
side  by  side,  in  a  flat  plane.  The  entire  unit  of  adjacent 
panels  was  raised  off  the  ground,  at  MT's  suggestion,  to 
create  the  effect  of  a  hovering  field  of  flowers. 

The  lighting  of  the  work  was  extremely  difficult.  In 
order  to  disguise  the  disturbing  unevenness  caused  by 
the  slight  pulling-away  from  the  panel  surface  of  the 
edge  of  each  segment,  light  could  not  fall  directly  on  the 
panels.  To  illuminate  the  falling  water  ideally,  the  lights 
should  have  been  mounted  in  two  rows  facing  each  other 
on  either  side  of  the  sheets  of  rain,  but  this  had  to  be 
avoided  to  prohibit  an  overflow  of  light  from  interfering 
disastrously  with  Lichtenstein's  screens  in  the  adjacent 
area.  Finally  the  rain  was  illuminated  from  the  top.  The 
water  thus  could  not  be  made  to  sparkle  as  intensely  as 
might  have  been  intended  by  the  artist,  based,  at  least, 
on  his  original  rain  model. 


It  was  not  realized  until  the  time  of  installation  at  Expo 
that  the  illusion  of  depth  in  the  photographic  images  was 
apparent  only  at  a  distance  no  greater  than  from  eight  to 
ten  feet.  This  understandably  detracted  from  the  impact 
of  the  work.  An  even  more  significant  problem,  how- 
ever, was  the  scale  of  the  images.  This  was  never  resolved 
satisfactorily,  and  it  was  determined  that  in  reconstruc- 
ting the  work  for  the  Museum  exhibition,  each  identical 
image  would  depict  not  four  but  one  greatly  enlarged 
flower.  IVIoreover,  in  developing  new  images  for  the 
second  work,  Cowles  recommended  that  the  3-D  effect 
be  technically  improved  to  allow  the  illusion  to  be 
discerned  from  a  much  greater  distance— from  eight  to 
about  twenty  feet  away. 

Jane  Livingston 


m 


■Jr.1 

HWBi^ 

'^nl 

I^KStf  i  1 

M 

^raj 

ijjp 

*■■,  ".V'awt  •  " 

ff  JCr 

'J£'     ^^'m*~'           * 

ffS 

./....'■ 


Robert  Watts 

Born  Burlington,  Iowa,  1923 

Resident  Bangor,  Pennsylvania 


Martial  Westburg 

Born  Des  Moines,  Iowa,  1939 
Resident  New  York  City 


338 


In  December,  1968,  Robert  Watts  wrote, 

I  would  like  to  propose  an  aural-visual  environment 
utilizing  various  sensing  devices  that  would  receive 
signals  from  inside  and  outside  the  Museum  space. 
These  signals  can  be  arranged  in  such  a  way  that 
various  environmental  'senses'  can  be  achieved, 
dependent  upon  source  signals  and  additional  man- 
ipulation. 


In  a  letter  of  March,  1967  Martial  Westburg  proposed 
the  manufacture  of  three  tori.  One  of  these  is  repro- 
duced with  his  suggestions  for  implementation: 


These  signals  would  be  collected  at  a  master  mixing 
console  where  further  modulation  could  occur 
contingent  upon  the  mass,  number,  and  proximity  of 
persons  moving  within  the  environment. 


The  final  display  of  signal— the  'sights'  and  'sounds'  of 
the  mixed  environment  would  be  various  and  chang- 
ing and  could  be  presented  to  the  audience  on  con- 
ventional sound  and  display  equipment  such  as  TV 
monitor,  oscilloscope,  front  and  rear  screen,  and 
print-out  devices,  etc.  Indeed,  it  would  be  possible  for 
each  person  to  carry  home  a  print-out,  a  visual 
reminder,  as  it  were,  of  his  experiences  with  the 
environment. 


A&T 


Martial  Westburg 


MEMO  #1 


/ 


f-  + 


\ 


V 


^eAM 


v/»*-vfi 


INFLATABLE  TORUS 

Material:  Nylon  reinforced  Neoprene 
Source :  du  Pont 
Fabricatora  :  Goodyear 
Color;  Natural 

Contact:  Phil  Gaylord ,  Manager  of  New  Products 
Goodyear  Aviation  Products  Division 
Goodyear  Tire  and  Rubber  Corporation 
Akron,  Ohio 


Robert  Whitman 

Born  New  York  City,  1935 
Resident  New  York  City 


340 


In  October,  1968,  after  Philco-Ford  had  signed  a  Spon- 
sor contract  (they  later  becanne  a  Patron  Sponsor  with  a 
$7000  grant  from  the  Ford  Foundation),  we  visited  their 
Aeronutronlcs  Division  at  Newport  Beach,  Hugh  Jessup 
and  Dick  Dickson  of  the  Public  Affairs  Office  described 
the  defense  research  in  radar,  sensors  and  image  proces- 
sing carried  on  at  the  Newport  facilities.  We  toured 
chemistry,  electro-optics  and  biophysics  laboratories  and 
met  two  physicists,  John  Forkner  and  IVlichael  Doyle, 
who  were  enthusiastic  about  the  A  &  T  program  and 
eager  to  work  with  an  artist  on  a  collaborative  venture. 

They  were  helpful  in  suggesting  areas  and  materials  for 
potential  use  in  an  esthetic  context:  Doyle  showed  us 
several  laser  displays  and  liquid  crystals,  a  heat  sensitive, 
viscous  material  which  reacts  to  temperature  change  by 
shifting  from  reddish  pearlescent  hues  to  deep  blues  and 
greens;  Forkner  told  us  of  several  optical  coating  ma- 
chines available  in  his  section. 

During  the  next  few  months  we  considered  a  number  of 
possible  artists  for  Philco-Ford— John  McCracken  (who 
toured  the  facility),  Robert  Morris  and  Bruce  Nauman. 
In  February,  we  invited  Robert  Whitman  to  visit  the 
Aeronutronlcs  Division  at  Newport  Beach. 

This  visit  is  summarized  in  the  following  memo  written 
from  Gail  Scott  to  MTon  February  11,  1969: 

GS  went  with  Robert  Whitman  to  Philco-Ford.  Met 
with  Dick  Dickson,  Mike  Doyle  and  Eli  Reisman 
(another  engineer). 

Bob  has  had  experience  with  E.A.T.  and  is  looking 
for  a  collaborative  situation  in  which  he  would  have 
extensive  technical  assistance  and  the  'TA'  with 
whom  he  works  would  do  all  the  engineering,  pro- 
gramming etc.  He  has  no  preconceived  idea  for  a 
project  but  wants  to  work  with  someone  who  is 
mutually  stimulating.  In  other  words  he's  looking  for 
the  right  people  with  whom  he  could  work,  rather 
than  (as  with  Bob  Morris)  wanting  certain  facilities 
for  a  specific  problem.  Whitman  was,  of  course, 
interested  in  their  facilities  and  equipment,  etc.,  but 
the  contact  people  seem  to  be  crucial  for  him. 

Mike  Doyle  was  (as  usual)  responsive  and  seemed 
interested  in  Whitman's  description  of  Pond  (at  the 
Jewish  Museum),  Bob  might  want  to  use  liquid 
crystals  in  some  sort  of  environment  which  would 
also  include  mylar,  mirrors,  sound  etc. 

John  Forkner,  the  other  physicist  with  whom  we  had 
talked  on  our  first  visit,  was  not  available  that  day  to 
meet  Whitman,  but  we  had  advised  Bob  of  Forkner's  ex- 
pressed interest  in  the  program.  Largely  on  the  basis  of 
his  interview  with  Mike  Doyle,  Whitman  decided  that  he 
would  like  to  pursue  the  possibility  of  a  collaborative 
effort  at  Philco-Ford.  Although  he  had  no  specific 


project  in  mind,  we  felt  confident,  given  his  past  work 
and  experience  with  E.A.T.,  and  considering  the  scien- 
tists we  had  already  met  at  the  Newport  division,  that  it 
would  be  a  productive  match.  The  company  accepted 
him  in  residence  without  insisting  on  a  project  proposal 
in  advance.  In  March  he  signed  the  contract  and  on  April 
21  arrived  in  Los  Angeles;  he  promptly  located  a  house 
for  himself  and  his  family  in  Balboa,  and  went  to  work. 

In  an  interview  recorded  some  months  after  his  residence 
at  Aeronutronlcs,  Whitman  recalled  his  first  weeks  there: 
I  went  out  to  Philco-Ford  and  after  talking  to  them 
briefly,  they  introduced  me  to  all  the  guys  with 
beards.  John  Forkner  was  one  of  them;  he  had  the 
longest  beard  ....  So  we  talked.  I  had  been  interes- 
ted in  optical  types  of  situations  before,  and  so  we 
had  some  basic  community  of  interest  to  get  started 
with.  [1,  Whitman;  2,  Forkner] 

Before  meeting  Forkner,  Whitman  had  not  been  especial- 
ly interested  in  executing  another  project  in  optics, 
following  his  recently  completed  Pond,  which  incorpora- 
ted pulsating  mirrors.  Whitman  later  remarked,  "Both  of 
us  wanted  to  escalate  out  of  something  we  had  already 
done  but  we  naturally  drifted  back  into  optics."  As  they 
talked,  they  became  engrossed  in  certain  optical  prob- 
lems which  are  described  by  Forkner  in  an  article  on  his 
project  with  Whitman,  written  for  the  Journal  of  Ap- 
plied Optics:  * 

The  following  fragmentary  ideas  he  [Whitman]  was 
playing  with  at  that  time  indicated  some  of  the 
directions  in  which  he  was  searching:  a  method  of 
focusing  ultrasonic  waves  on  a  special  wall  so  that  an 
audible  sound  would  seem  to  emanate  from  a  local- 
ized area:  a  room  environment  programmed  to  react 
to  the  presence  of  people  and  to  respond  in  a  feed- 
back manner;  ways  of  using  real  optical  images  to 
lead  the  viewer  to  re-examine  familiar  objects  such  as 
his  own  face.  The  ideas  had  some  interesting  repercus- 
sions. Commenting  on  the  feedback  room  environ- 
ment, one  of  our  scientists  remarked  somewhat 
caustically  that  it  would  make  the  viewer  nothing  but 
a  robot.  Being  immersed  in  the  idea.  Bob  hadn't  seen 
the  function  of  the  room  from  this  very  human  point 
of  view,  and  was  delighted  to  have  a  criticism  of  this 
depth.  As  a  result,  he  re-directed  his  thinking  about 
the  whole  problem.  The  real  image  ideas  fell  into  my 
area  of  knowledge,  as  optical  engineer,  and  I  recall 
being  puzzled  by  Bob's  fascination  with  this  seeming- 
ly trivial  phenomenon. 


*To  be  published  in  the  Spring  of  1971 


341 


A&T 


Whitman  later  explained  this  fascination  with  such 

effects : 

I've  always  been  interested  in  ghosts  and  spirits  and 
weird  things.  I've  been  trying  to  do  that  for  a  long 
time— ethereal  images.  The  whole  thing  about  ethereal 
images  and  real  images  is  that  they  are  natural,  and 
it's  only  just  recently  that  the  kind  of  technologies 
have  been  available  that  could  do  that.  Before,  I  was 


1  ^1 

^Hi^^ 

1    x  ^W 

[Ib^jhi 

—  ^^  ^jH^Bj 

doing  films  which  had  something  to  do  with  that. 
Then  I  got  into  the  laser  thing  from  doing  movies, 
and  I  found  by  using  a  laser  I  could  do  it  much  better 
and  easier  than  I  could  with  movies.  Then  I  found 
what  I  could  do  with  optics— just  another  step  along 
the  line. 

Forkner  proceeded  to  experiment  along  the  lines  of 

Whitman's  thinking.  His  article  continues. 

One  day,  having  found  a  large  spherical  mirror  of  fair 
quality,  I  set  this  up  on  my  desk  and  reached  my 
hand  toward  the  center  of  curvature  of  the  mirror. 
[3,  4]  The  very  realistic,  three-dimensional  image  of 
my  hand  that  seemed  to  come  out  of  the  mirror  was 
so  startling  that  I  immediately  showed  this  incredible 
effect  to  my  colleagues  who  were  equally  amazed.  In 
retrospect,  what  is  surprising  is  my  surprise.  Real 
images  as  a  phenomena  are  so  venerable  that  the  most 
ancient  physics  texts  (natural  Philosophy)  show 
experiments  to  demonstrate  the  effect— including  the 


342 


famous  'rose  in  a  vase'  exhibit  seen  in  many  science 
museums.  The  difference,  I  think,  results  from  my 
hand  being  a  moving  rather  than  a  stationary  object 
and  the  fact  that  it  was  my  hand  (the  effect  of 
touching  the  image  of  your  forefinger  without  receiv- 
ing a  touch  sensation  comes  as  a  complete  surprise). 
This  little  experiment  proved  to  be  crucial  from  my 
point  of  view,  because,  for  the  first  time,  I  began  to 
understand  what  the  artist  was  trying  to  do.  This 
turned  out  to  be  the  actual  beginning  of  the  collabor- 
ation, because  Bob  was  also  now  able  to  formulate 
technical  questions  resulting  from  evolving  artistic 
Ideas.  One  weekend,  shortly  after  that,  his  thinking 
had  crystallized  sufficiently  so  that  he  could  state  a 
definite  problem.  In  an  effort  to  restructure  space  in 
a  visually  exciting  way  Bob  wanted  an  optical  system 
that  would  image  objects  as  though  they  were  turned 
inside  out— pseudoscopic  imagery.  He  was  especially 
intrigued  by  the  possibility  of  seeing  your  face 
inside-out.  Never  having  worked  on  this  problem 
before,  I  wasn't  sure  that  it  could  be  done,  but  I 
remembered  the  pseudoscopic  property  of  certain 
holographic  images  and  realized  there  was  at  least 
some  basis  for  the  idea. 

Despite  his  doubts,  Forkner  continued  to  investigate  the 
phenomenon  of  pseudoscopic  imagery.  While  driving 
home  from  work  one  day  he  was  struck  by  a  possible 
method  of  creating  the  effect  he  envisioned.  Noticing 
the  red  reflectors  on  the  back  of  a  car,  he  reasoned  that 
he  might  be  able  to  produce  a  pseudoscopic  image  using 
a  series  of  small  corner-shaped  reflectors  (similar  in 
principle  to  those  on  automobile  taillights)  with  a  beam 
splitting  mirror  to  extract  the  desired  image.  In  an 
attempt  to  make  such  a  corner-reflector  device,  and 
incidentally  to  call  attention  to  the  scientific  uses  which 
might  arise  from  the  project,  Forkner  sent  the  following 
memo  to  his  Philco-Ford  supervisor: 

If  the  concept  proves  feasible  it  might  be  constructed 
on  a  larger  scale  as  a  room  with  one  wall  covered  with 
molded,  plastic,  corner-reflector,  mirror  tiles  and  a 
large  Mylar  film,  beam  splitting  mirror  stretched 
diagonally  across  the  room.  Someone  standing  at  one 
door  of  the  room  would  see  a  real  image  of  a  person 
standing  at  a  door  in  the  adjacent  wall,  and  the  image 
would  appear  to  be  only  a  few  feet  from  him  and 
turned  inside  out!  It  should  be  a  really  startling 
illusion,  and  would  be  especially  interesting  tech- 
nically due  to  the  relation  to  current  work  in  holog- 
raphy. 

To  construct  a  small  scale  version  of  the  device  in 
order  to  check  feasibility,  and  to  investigate  this 
Illusion— which  I  suspect  has  never  been  observed 
before  with  real  physical  objects  (holograms  are  only 
static,  photographic  images)— it  is  proposed  to  make  a 
special,  accurate  mold  from  which  a  number  of 


plastic  corner  reflector  plates  can  be  generated.  I  have 
done  some  initial  design  investigation  including  ray 
tracing  and  estimating  resolution  (diffraction  effects, 
tolerances)  and  from  this  arrived  at  the  tool  design 
shown  in  the  attached  sketch.  This  tool  can  be  made 
in  the  research  model  shop,  preferably  by  one  of  the 
better  model  makers  because  of  the  accuracy  re- 
quired. The  plastics  lab  could  then  use  the  tool  to 
emboss  plexiglass  or  similar  acrylic  sheet  into  the 
desired  reflector  plates. 

The  results  of  his  first  attempts  to  construct  this  device 
were  unsatisfactory,  and  Forkner  decided  instead  to  try 
to  locate  a  commercially  made  product.  After  consider- 
able scouting  and  detective  work,  he  found  a  reflecting 
device  (manufactured  by  the  Stimsonite  Division  of  the 
Elastic  Stop  Nut  Company)  which,  unlike  most  similar 
devices,  had  small  enough  corner  cubes  for  his  purposes, 
with  the  required  accuracy  of  reflection.  As  Forkner's 
account  explains. 

Samples  were  quickly  procured  and  after  experimen- 
ting with  methods  of  scanning  to  supress  the  cellular 
pattern  of  the  array  (using  a  rotating  turntable),  we 
actually  were  able  to  see  live  pseudoscopic  images. 
Using  even  smaller  corner  cubes  (about  .060  inch), 
the  resolution  improved  to  the  point  where  cups 
could  be  turned  inside-out  and  a  spherical  ball  ap- 
peared as  a  concave  hollow  space.  We  were  shocked, 
however  to  find  that  very  familiar  objects  such  as  a 
hand,  would  not  invert— except  occasionally  in  an 
ambiguous  way.  With  the  hand  oriented  so  that  your 
thumb  was  aligned  in  front  of  the  gap  between  two 
fingers,  the  top  part  of  the  thumb  often  appeared  to 
be  behind  the  fingers  and  looked  as  though  it  were  no 
longer  connected  to  the  lower  part.  This  strange 
result  had  also  been  observed  by  Wheatstone  [a 
Nineteenth  Century  scientist]  we  later  found  out, 
and  is  evidently  intimately  connected  with  the 
psychology  of  visual  perception  and  pattern  recogni- 
tion by  which  the  mind  reconstructs  the  object, 
despite  what  the  eye  actually  sees.  Thus  the  hope  of 
seeing  depth-inverted  faces  seemed  remote.  This 
rather  fundamental  difficulty  as  well  as  the  potential 
cost  of  constructing  a  wall  size  pseudoscopic  mirror, 
led  us  to  temporarily  set  aside  this  idea  in  order  to 
concentrate  on  the  possibilities  of  real  images,  which 
we  had  played  with  earlier. 

In  experimenting  with  the  real  image  effect,  Forkner  set 
up  a  somewhat  primitive  arrangement  consisting  of  a  flat 
short  focus  mirror  and  a  long  focus  spherical  mirror  to 
observe  the  real  image  of  one's  face  in  side  view.  The 
experiment  proved  startling;  to  see  the  reflection  of 
one's  own  face,  viewed  from  the  side  and  appearing  to 
float  in  space  as  a  solid  image,  is  a  most  disconcerting 
phenomenon.  Extending  the  principle  of  this  effect. 
Whitman  reasoned  that  to  present  familiar  inanimate 


343 


A&T 


objects  in  this  extraordinary  optical  context  would  be 
equally  disorienting  and  compelling.  He  and  Forkner 
also  discovered  that  heat  radiated  by  an  electric  heater 
could  be  focused  to  coincide  with  the  precise  location  of 
the  optical  image,  so  that  the  "ghost"  image  of  the 
heater,  hovering  in  space,  would  actually  be  hot  to  the 
touch. 

During  the  first  three  weeks  of  June,  while  Forkner 
proceeded  with  his  experiments.  Whitman  designed  the 
room  in  which  the  optical  effects  would  be  experienced. 
The  environment  was  to  consist  of  a  spiral-shaped, 
enclosed  space  twenty-five  by  thirty  feet  in  dimension. 
[5]  As  Forkner  says  in  his  article. 

Within  this  space  he  would  encounter  ten  real-image 
displays  as  follows:  The  electric-range  heater  we 
experimented  with  earlier,  as  well  as  the  ice  cube 


display;  an  image  of  a  microphone,  the  counterpart  of 
which  would  be  electrically  connected  through 
sound-modifying  circuitry  to  a  transitor  radio,  which 
in  turn  would  be  optically  imaged  at  another  part  of 
the  room  (thus  exploiting  the  sound-focusing  proper- 
ties of  curved  mirrors);  a  rag;  a  continuously  flowing 
column  of  water,  viewed  from  below;  a  face  mask; 
and,  finally,  a  pair  of  locations  utilizing  the  mutual 
imaging  of  two  viewers'  faces  through  the  medium  of 
the  pseudoscopic,  corner-reflector  array  mechanism- 
ten  display  situations  in  all.  To  further  complicate 
matters.  Bob  wanted  most  of  the  displays  to  have  a 
zoom  feature  in  which  the  real  images  would  appear 
initially  to  be  remote  from  the  viewer  and  then  rather 
quickly  to  rush  forward  and  appear  to  pass  through 
him.  In  this.  Bob  hoped  to  use  the  idea  of  the  vari- 
focal  mirror  employed  in  an  earlier  work,  Pond,  in 


344 


which  he  collaborated  with  Eric  Rawson  of  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories.  He  wanted  these  real-image 
displays  to  appear  in  the  space  above  a  special  wall 
consisting  of  an  array  of  six  inch  corner  cube  reflec- 
tors extending  from  the  floor  of  the  room  to  about 
six  feet  above  this  level.  The  viewer  would  see  himself 
in  these  corner  reflectors  illuminated  under  chance 
circumstances  by  one  of  a  number  of  parallel  columns 
of  light  emanating  from  large,  Fresnel  lenses  in  the 
ceiling  of  the  room.  He  would  see  literally  thousands 
of  images  of  his  face  (the  size  of  the  reflectors  and 
the  viewing  distance  being  such  as  to  so  limit  his 
view),  inverted  and  extending  horizontally  over  the 
entire  extent  of  his  field  of  vision.  [6] 


By  the  end  of  June  the  design  for  an  optical  environ- 
ment was  completed  and  drawn  up  in  blueprint.  It  was 
immensely  ambitious,  and  would  be  costly  to  construct 
and  install.  However,  we  felt  that  the  project  was  formi- 
dably impressive,  and  were  most  anxious  to  see  it  real- 
ized. 

To  the  end  of  encouraging  Philco-Ford  to  carry  out  its 
construction,  on  June  25  MT,  GS  and  Dr.  Richard 
Feynman  went  to  Newport  to  meet  with  John  Lawson, 
President  of  the  Philco-Ford  Aeronutronics  Division. 
Forkner  and  Whitman  attended  the  meeting  to  present 
and  explain  the  designs  they  had  drawn.  MT  stressed  the 
technical  and  esthetic  breakthroughs  already  achieved  by 


345 


A&T 


the  project;  Dr.  Feynman  commented  favorably  on 
certain  of  its  technical  aspects,  and  expressed  interest  in 
the  visual  phenomenon.  Despite  our  efforts,  Lawson 
declined  to  commit  additional  Philco-Ford  funds  to 
build  the  room.  His  decision  was  final,  and  did  not  allow 
for  negotiation.  Needless  to  say,  we  were  intensely 
disappointed.  Four  days  later  Whitman  returned  to  New 
York,  but  before  he  left  we  agreed  to  seek  technical  and 
financial  support  elsewhere,  primarily  from  funds 
provided  by  our  Benefactor  corporations. 

We  were  seriously  considering  the  work  for  the  Expo 
show.  After  several  discussions  with  USI A  designers  the 
plans  were  extensively  revised.  The  spiral  shaped  room 


which  accommodated  only  one  entrance-exit  opening 
was  not  practical  for  the  Fair  situation  with  its  massive 
crowds.  Forkner  and  Whitman  agreed  on  an  alternative 
design  for  a  more  open,  semi-circular  layout  with  six 
(later  reduced  to  five)  large  mirrors  and  faced  with  1 ,000 
corner  reflectors  running  along  the  lower  wall  surface. 
[7,8] 

Over  the  summer  Forkner  continued  to  study  the 
concept  of  the  large  spherical  mirrors,  attempting  to  find 
a  method  of  achieving  the  desired  optical  effect  without 
resorting  to  expensive  polished  glass  processing.  He 
worked  with  reflective  Mylar,  stretched  over  a  circular 
frame  and  drawn  into  a  concave  shape  with  a  partial 


-        ; 

^ 

^     '       i 

: 

- 

■  1  •  -- 

''■■■■ 

i 
'■ 

.._ 

—  u. 

346 


vacuum;  this  method  at  first  produced  excessive  distor- 
tions in  the  reflected  image,  "due  partially  to  non-uni- 
form tensioning  of  the  Mylar  during  mounting  and  also 
due  to  more  fundamental  non-linear  stress  distributions 
inherent  in  the  geometry."  Abandoning  the  use  of 
spherical  mirrors,  Forkner  experimented  instead  with  a 
pair  of  cylindrical  mirrors  to  generate  the  same  focusing 
effect  as  a  sphere.  Forkner  explains, 

I  reasoned  that  since  two  cylindrical  lenses  can  be 
crossed  to  approximate  a  spherically  symmetrical 
lens,  an  analogous  arrangement  of  mirrors  should  be 
possible.  The  usual  problem,  of  course,  is  that  mirrors 
tend  to  get  in  the  way  of  each  other.  I  tried  several 
configurations  to  get  around  this,  and  the  best 
seemed  to  be  two  circular  cylindrical  mirrors.  The 
focal  length  for  this  arrangement  is  the  same  in  both 
planes,  and  aberrations  are  minimized.  In  fact,  when  I 
subsequently  ray-traced  the  system,  the  results 
indicated  that  the  size  of  the  image  of  a  point  source 
was  limited  only  by  the  'spherical  aberration'  of  the 
upper  mirror  in  the  horizontal  plane,  while  the 
'cross-talk'  aberration  in  the  vertical  plane  was  quite 
small,  even  for  large  apertures.  I  was  surprised  that 
this  system  could  theoretically  perform  this  well— it 
would  be  more  than  adequate  for  our  purpose. 

After  much  trial  and  error  experimentation,  Forkner 
evolved  a  means  for  constructing  the  cylindrical  frames 
and  a  method  for  applying  the  reflective  Mylar.  The  two 
sections  of  mirror  frames  (each  measuring  about  five  by 
seven  feet)  would  consist  of  curved  plywood  ribs  over 
which  a  plywood  sheet  would  be  glued.  The  surface 
would  be  sanded  with  a  specially  made  fitted  tool  to 
achieve  a  perfectly  smooth  surface.  Over  this,  one-eighth 
inch  metallized  acrylic  sheets  would  be  fastened  with 
double  faced  masking  tape.  Forkner  made  a  working 
model  for  this  plan.  [9] 

In  October,  after  searching  for  a  means  to  construct  the 
cylinder  and  corner-reflector  mirrors,  a  member  of  the 
USIA's  design  team  recommended  that  we  approach  a 
New  York  based  company  called  Today's  Displays,  an 
installation  and  display  company  in  New  York.  The 
firm's  president  Joseph  Grunwald  visited  the  Philco-Ford 
plant  to  see  Forkner's  model  and  agreed  to  undertake 
the  project,  following  the  above-described  procedure. 
Today's  Displays  was  contracted  to  build  the  corner 
mirrors  and  the  large  curved  mirrors,  while  Forkner 
continued  to  develop  and  construct  the  varifocal  mir- 
rors, control  units,  and  vacuum  pumps.  This  equipment 
was  to  be  placed  out  of  sight  above  a  false  ceiling  in  the 
installation.  The  vari-focal  mirrors  served  as  an  inter- 
mediary directing  device  between  each  object  and  the 
large  cylindrical  mirrors.  Without  them  the  real  objects 
could  not  have  been  hidden  from  view.  Philco-Ford  now 
limited  its  support  to  allowing  Forkner  the  time  and 
materials  needed  to  complete  this  part  of  the  project. 


Because  of  limited  available  funds,  it  was  decided  to 
abandon  temporarily  the  one  mirror  which  would 
produce  the  pseudoscopic  device;  we  hoped  to  find  some 
means  to  include  it  in  the  exhibition  at  the  Museum.  At 
this  point,  it  seems  likely  that  we  will  be  able  to  do  so. 

As  reports  came  in  from  Today's  Displays,  Forkner 
expressed  concern  that  the  mirrors  would  not  be  satis- 
factory and  stressed  the  need  for  precision  in  building 
the  structure  support.  He  had  already  made  several  trips 
East  to  consult  with  Whitman  on  various  developments 
in  the  project,  and  in  November  he  went  to  New  York  to 
inspect  the  work  in  progress  at  Today's  Displays.  As  he 
had  feared,  the  support  structures  were  inadequate— the 
reflected  image  was  not  nearly  precise  enough.  Forkner 
telephoned  MT  to  say  that  the  optical  effect  simply 
would  not  work  and  that  Today's  Displays  should  cease 
working  on  the  units. 

This  was  again  a  disheartening  setback,  and  we  felt  we 
had  reached  an  impasse.  But  with  characteristic  persis- 
tence and  ingenuity,  Forkner  proceeded  to  develop  yet 
another  construction  method.  He  wrote. 

When  I  settled  down  from  the  shock  of  this  new 
failure,  I  realized  that  my  own  assessment  of  the 
required  accuracy  of  the  mirrors  was  too  optimistic 
....  I  reasoned  that  at  a  point  when  you  examine  a 
real  image,  you  are  actually  looking  at  two  spots  on 
the  mirror  (whether  spherical  or  cylindrical),  and 
these  spots  have  a  diameter  and  a  separation  deter- 
mined by  eye  separation  and  pupil  diameter  and  the 
ratio  of  observer  to  image  and  observer  to  mirror 
distances.  The  diameter  of  the  instantaneous  spot 
actually  used  on  the  mirror  is  small  enough  (less  than 
1")  so  that  accuracy  of  curvature  is  fairly  easy  to 
hold  in  this  case.  The  really  difficult  problem  comes 
from  the  need  to  hold  accuracy  over  the  much  larger 
eye  separation  distance  (about  10"  at  the  mirror, 
typically).  Errors  in  this  instance  cause  distortions  in 
the  apparent  depth  dimension  of  the  image.  The 
distortions  in  the  image  shape  which  these  large  scale 
errors  also  cause  are  even  more  serious  since  they 
appear  so  obvious  when  you  look  at  the  images.  To 
get  a  feeling  for  the  magnitude  involved,  I  considered 
an  object  whose  largest  dimension  is  about  10"  and 
which  is  imaged  at  unity  magnification.  I  assumed 
that  a  bulge  of  about  one-fourth  over  a  three  inch 
portion  of  this  image  might  be  acceptable.  Assuming 
an  eleven  foot  effective  radius  of  curvature  of  the 
mirror,  this  corresponds  to  an  angular  error  of  about 
1 .8  milliradions.  The  three  inches  in  the  image  dimen- 
sion corresponds  to  a  ten  inch  span  on  the  mirror  and 
over  this  span  the  assumed  angular  error  is  equivalent 
to  a  deviation  from  a  true  circular  curve  of  about 
.002  inches.  The  way  I  interpreted  this  result  was  that 
if  you  use  a  three-leg  spherometer  with  a  span  of  ten 
inches  to  measure  surface  errors,  the  maximum 


347 


A&T 


s-Jec-T- 


N\AGit- 


vAeuijr^    u?^^_ 


cyulTsiX?^^     SA\ft'^0«S 


J.  F.^oR.v:vJ€.iZ_ 


348 


349 


A&T 


allowable  deviation  as  shown  by  the  dial  indicator 
should  be  no  more  than  double  the  calculated  devi- 
ation of  .004  inches.  Notice  that  this  is  a  smoothness 
requirement  and  does  not  imply  that  the  radius  of 
curvature  of  the  mirrors  need  be  held  to  tolerances  of 
this  magnitude— which  would  have  made  the  project 
nearly  impossible.  With  this  new  insight  into  the 
tolerances  needed  for  an  acceptable  image,  I  began  to 
understand  the  difficulty  we  were  having  in  construc- 
tion. 

In  order  for  Forkner  to  achieve  the  degree  of  precision 
described  above,  he  decided  to  substitute  masonite  for 
the  plywood  surface.  (The  softer  material  could  be 
ground  much  more  smoothly  than  wood.)  This  was  done 
on  the  four  foot  model  and  the  results  were  encouraging. 
He  invited  us  to  view  a  test  set-up.  Because  of  USIA 
deadlines,  we  had  been  waiting  anxiously  for  some 
breakthrough,  and  as  a  result  of  the  successful  test 
situation,  we  were  now  optimistic  that  the  project  could 
progress.  Building  the  model  had  demonstrated  that  the 
construction  theory  would  work;  however,  only  one 
month  remained  in  which  to  build  five  double  sets  of 
huge  mirrors  before  all  materials  had  to  be  shipped  to 
Japan. 

To  accomplish  this  immense  task  Forkner  enlisted  the 
help  of  his  church  group,  the  Laguna  Beach  Unitarian 
Fellowship.  They  borrowed  building  space  in  an  empty 
Laguna  Beach  grocery  store  and  began  work  under  his 


direction,  with  the  technical  help  of  George  Quinn,  a 
man  of  great  professional  versatility  who  supervised  the 
operation.  The  Fellowship  members  were  assisted  by 
various  friends,  and  whoever  else  wandered  into  the 
store  out  of  curiosity  and  was  willing  to  help.  The 
history  of  what  transpired  in  that  Laguna  Beach  store 
between  January  2  and  February  9  constitutes  an 
important  part  of  the  Whitman-Forkner  saga.  It  was  a 
Herculean  undertaking,  as  is  indicated  in  John  Forkner's 
detailed  account  which  follows  this  discussion  on  p.  353. 

After  witnessing  this  extraordinary  cooperative  en- 
deavor, we  agreed  to  recompense  George  Quinn  for  his 
supervisory  assistance,  to  defray  the  cost  of  certain 
carpentry  work  that  had  to  be  subcontracted,  and  to  pay 
a  rental  fee  for  the  building  space. 

The  mirror  frames,  the  internal  mechanism  (vacuum 
pumps,  varifocal  mirrors,  and  special  lights),  and  the 
corner  mirrors  from  Today's  Displays  were  shipped  to 
Osaka  in  early  February.  Philco-Ford  authorized  a  leave 
of  absence  for  Forkner  to  supervise  installation  at  Expo. 
The  installation  of  the  environment  was  a  tedious 
process.  It  would  have  been  impossible  to  accomplish 
without  Forkner's  thorough  knowledge  of  every  stage  in 
the  operation.  Whitman  was  involved  in  E.A.T.'s  construc- 
tion of  the  Pepsi  Cola  Pavilion  at  Expo  and  depended 
completely  on  Forkner  to  execute  his  A  &  T  piece. 

The  Expo  spectator,  upon  entering  Whitman's  darkened 


: — 1\— ^--  :     LAi>p«^  Acee?k   -"--Afi^ 


350 


environment  and  standing  under  one  of  twenty-four 
ceiling  light  fixtures  (each  a  100-watt,  incandescent  lamp 
located  at  the  focus  of  a  ten-inch  diameter  plastic 
Fresnel  lens),  saw  one  thousand  images  of  his  own  face 
reflected  in  the  corner  mirrors.  Looking  up,  he  saw,  as 
he  moved  across  the  area,  five  successive  pairs  of  images, 
projected  by  each  of  the  hidden  cylinder  mirror  systems. 
In  other  words,  the  "ghost"  image  of  each  object  would 
suddenly  appear  in  space  as  one  of  the  miniature  spot- 
lights in  the  ceiling  switched  on;  the  image  (unlike  an  or- 
dinary mirror  reflection)  was  seemingly  detached  from 
any  reflecting  surface,  and  as  the  mirrors  began  to  pul- 
sate, would  advance  toward  the  viewer,  then  disappear  as 
the  light  shut  off. 

The  items  selected  by  Whitman  were  all  familiar,  com- 
mon objects— an  assortment  of  organic  and  man  made 
things:  a  clock,  an  artificial  fern,  a  pear,  a  cabbage,  an 
electric  drill,  a  brick  [10] ,  a  knife,  a  wad  of  crumpled 
paper,  and  a  tank  of  live  goldfish.  The  experience  result- 
ing from  this  unique  combination  of  optical  phenomena 
is  one  of  mysterious  visual  disorientation.  This  sensation 
is  mainly  owing  to  the  incongruity  between  the  type  of 
images  used— the  intimacy  of  one's  own  reflection  or 
the  utter  familiarness  of  the  objects— and  the  feeling  of 
unreality  occurring  in  the  observed  situation.  To  see  one 
thousand  images  of  one's  own  face,  discrete  and  isolated 
from  the  surrounding  persons,  is  in  itself  startling;  but 
coupled  with  the  evanescent  appearance  and  disappear- 
ance of  strangely  hovering  objects,  the  experience 
becomes  even  more  extraordinary. 

At  the  time  of  this  writing,  plans  are  underway  to 
develop  the  environment  for  exhibition  at  the  Museum 
through  structural  and  technical  modifications.  The 
pseudoscopic  device  will  probably  be  included  as  one  of 
the  five  or  six  types  of  image  projections.  In  addition 
Whitman  and  Forkner  are  re-designing  the  room  itself  so 
that  the  lower  section  (the  corner-reflector  mirrors)  and 
upper  area  (the  object  projecting  mirrors)  will  combine 
to  effect  a  more  unified  visual  experience.  One  way  to 
accomplish  an  increased  coherence  will  be  the  transfor- 
mation of  each  object  into  a  second  form;  for  example,  a 
cabbage  could  appear  and  seem  to  move  toward  the 
viewer;  as  it  disappeared  it  would  gradually  change  into 
the  shape  of  an  electric  drill. 

Gall  R.  Scott 


351 


A&T 


10 


352 


#.# 


#w 


X  - 


>^    -\ 


;  A-A-\ 


:\   •      /\ 


*''j^ 


>   » 


V        \y       >      ' 


353 


The  construction  of  Robert  Whitman's  mirrors 
in  Laguna  Beach,  California. 


A&T 


December  23,  1969 

Mr.  Tuchman,  in  desperation,  gambled  and  accepted  my 
proposal  to  consign  fabrication  of  the  cylindrical  mirrors 
to  the  Laguna  Beach  Unitarian  Church  Fellowship.  I 
approached  Allan  Christiansen,  who,  in  addition  to  being 
a  close  friend  and  an  engineer,  was  also  the  Chairman  of 
the  Fellowship.  I  discussed  the  possibility  of  the  Fellow- 
ship building  the  mirrors  as  a  group  money-making 
endeavor.  If  Allan  had  been  less  than  enthusiastic,  the 
whole  project  might  have  failed  at  this  point.  But  he, 
like  I,  had  tremendous  if  somewhat  irrational  faith,  that 
the  membership  could,  under  my  constant  guidance, 
construct  five  sets  of  mirrors  even  though  a  professional 
outfit  had  failed. 

Allan  and  I  then  decided  we  must  find  one  full-time 
supervisor  to  handle  the  multitudinous  problems  of  vol- 
unteer work  schedules  and  the  vast  ordering  of  materials. 
George  Quinn,  a  member  of  our  Fellowship,  who  most 
recently  had  been  supervisor  for  Laguna's  new  commun- 
ity playhouse,  and  had  formerly  worked  with  volunteers 
in  constructing  a  summer  camp,  was  unexpectedly  avail- 
able and  quickly  accepted  our  offer.  [1  ]  We  could 
hardly  believe  our  good  luck. 


January  4,  1970 

Byron  Ritchy,  the  owner  of  Microtechnical  Industries  in 
Laguna  and  a  very  good  friend  of  one  of  our  members, 
put  at  our  disposal  rent-free,  a  huge  vacant,  barn  shaped 
structure  known  forevermore  as  The  Barn.  It  was  about 
7000  sq.  ft.,  and  once  had  been  a  supermarket.  The  idea 
of  the  project  so  far  had  hit  everybody— Allan,  George 
and  Byron  Ritchy— as  great  right  off  the  bat.  Byron,  who 
is  an  engineer,  really  enjoyed  the  whole  scene.  As  a 
measure  of  faith  he  let  us  take  out  the  front  windows, 
front  wall,  inside  wall,  and  immovable  structures  of  his 
barn  and  put  holes  in  concrete  floors.  Later  Byron,  on  a 
business  trip  to  Japan,  waited  four  hours  in  line  to  see 
the  exhibit.  He  was  quite  moved.  It  had  been  worth  it. 


Every  night  for  the  rest  of  the  week  Allan,  George  and 
met  and  discussed  budget  and  organization.  Allan 


354 


sketched  the  whole  thing  out  nail  by  nail  and  screw  by 
screw.  He  estimated  a  cost  of  $7,000.  In  actuality  we 
spent  $8,000,  and  the  Fellowship  profited  by  $2,000. 
During  the  day  George  had  been  buying  materials  and 
organizing  the  barn.  He  subcontracted  to  a  quality  furni- 
ture builder  the  most  precise  job— that  of  cutting  hun- 
dreds of  plywood  ribs  to  an  accurate  circular  arc.  There 
were  to  be  two  sets  of  wooden  parts.  One  for  the  five  by 
seven  foot  mirror,  and  one  for  the  seven  by  seven  foot 
mirror. 

We  then  planned  to  make  five  sets  of  mirrors,  but  actual- 
ly made  six.  Fortunately  by  a  slight  compromise  I  was 
able  to  make  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the  two  frames 
identical— eleven  feet.  Therefore  the  builder  was  able  to 
make  a  single  fixture  to  do  the  fussy  operation  of  accur- 
ately cutting  this  radius.  He  held  to  within  .010  inches 
of  the  design  curve  by  using  marine  glue  plywood, 
because  of  its  low  warpage  and  uniform  density.  By 
doing  this  we  had  transformed  the  whole  job  into  that  of 
assembling  rather  spectacular  kinds  of  kits.  This  made 
the  work  of  a  sort  that  we  hoped  could  be  handled  by 
our  group. 

We  spoke  of  building  a  motorized  sanding  machine  to 
assure  the  accurate  cylindrical  shape  of  the  masonite 
surface.  We  dropped  this  idea,  hoping  that  my  model— a 
two-man  sandpaper  lapping  tool— could  do  the  job.  If  I 
had  known  everything  that  would  eventually  have  to  be 
done,  I  could  never  have  started.  From  the  beginning  I 
was  in  a  constant  state  of  panic.  We  had  set  January  31 
as  our  goal. 

January  1 1 

We  had  our  first  organizational  meeting  in  the  barn.  Riva 
Morton,  the  Program  Chairman  of  the  church,  who  had 
wandered  into  the  barn  the  Friday  before,  mostly  out  of 
curiosity,  contacted  sixty  members  for  the  meeting. 
That  Friday  we  knighted  her  official  Personnel  Director, 
and  she  continued  for  the  duration  of  the  project  as 
George's  and  my  executive  secretary.*  At  that  meeting 
George  outlined  the  work  involved,  and  I  described  the 
art-technology  history  of  the  mirrors. 

Eddie  Sturm,  a  retired  bookprinter,  intellectual,  and 
amateur  photographer  was  there  avidly  taking  pictures. 
His  usual  dour  expression  was  gone.  George  had  appoint- 
ed him  official  photographer  of  the  project.  He  daily 
took  dozens  of  pictures,  developed  them,  and  then 
mounted  our  reflections  on  the  wall  for  us  to  see.  We 
could  order  prints  for  $1 .00  apiece. 


January  12 

Production  began.  Fifteen  people  came  in  two's  and 
three's.  No  one  quite  knew  what  was  required.  George 
very  quickly  had  some  nailing,  some  measuring,  and 
some  stacking  materials.  There  was  work  for  everyone. 
No  one  was  turned  away.  Our  supervisor  welded  dancers, 
teachers,  rock  and  roll  musicians  into  an  efficient  task 
force  of  carpenters,  gluers,  and  sanders.  He  sent  Winnie 
Palmer,  a  famous  writer  of  children's  books,  under  the 
pen  name  of  Winifer  Wise  to  buy  very  special  glue  for 
sandpaper.  After  fruitless  searching  for  hours,  she  came 
back  with  ordinary  paper  cement.  It  worked  fine. 

In  the  afternoon  came  Felicia  O'Connell,  who  teaches 
French  at  the  University  of  California,  Irvine.  George  as- 
signed Felicia  the  task  of  making  signs.  Within  an  hour 
workers  were  warned  of  dire  results  if  they  did  not  put 
tools  away  and  keep  off  certain  areas.  The  signs  never 
stopped.  They  eventually  became  an  important  factor  in 
the  spirit  at  the  barn. 


In  a  small  side  room  there  was  coffee,  cake,  and  fruit 
juice.  George  outfitted  this  "office"  with  a  Salvation 
Army  rug,  my  patio  chairs,  and  an  antique  drafting 
table.  It  was  quieter  than  the  main  room  and  we  often 
met  here  for  special  conferences. 

At  seven  o'clock  that  evening  George's  estranged  wife 
Ruth  interviewed  me  for  a  story  in  the  local  paper.  She 
did  a  thoroughly  professional  job.  Throughout,  our  press 
coverage  was  excellent.  We  averaged  two  articles  per 
week.  A  local  reporter  of  our  most  right  wing  paper 
handed  Riva  his  best  Leica.  He  instructed  her  how  to  use 
it  and  sent  her  off  to  cover  a  barn  happening.  He  had 
first  met  her  when  she  walked  into  his  office  fifteen 
minutes  before. 


*She  also  assisted  me  in  writing  this  account. 


Our  doors  opened  at  10  a.m.,  and  closed  after  midnight. 
George  kept  the  barn  going  seven  days  a  week  and 
stayed  on  if  a  single  person  wanted  to  work.  Dependable 
work  crews  assembled  in  just  a  few  days.  There  was  the 


355 


A&T 


early  afternoon  crew  of  Felicia  O'Connell,  French 
teacher;  Winnie  Palmer,  writer;  Nota  Chari,  physical 
therapist,  and  Greek  exile;  Jan  Babcock,  local  artist,  and 
Barbara  Jones,  art  historian  and  print  maker.  Both  Jan 
and  Barbara  also  worked  later  shifts  side  by  side  with 
their  husbands.  Jan's  husband,  Norm,  was  the  local  nar- 
cotics police  officer,  a  role  which  estranged  him  from 
most  of  the  local  youth  in  Laguna.  At  the  barn  he  en- 
joyed a  different  role.  He  taught  members  of  the 
church's  youth  group  woodworking  skills  and  then 
patiently  worked  side  by  side  with  them.  Riva's  seven- 
teen-year old  son,  Eric,  said,  "It's  great  to  be  with  Norm 
and  not  feel  paranoid."  In  the  late  afternoon  students 
and  housewives  came.  After  dinner  salesmen,  teachers, 
and  engineers  worked.  Allan  worked  night  after  night, 
along  with  Ayda  Brunnell,  an  electrolysist  and  our  very 
competent  treasurer.  We  amassed  that  week  about  thirty 
steady  workers;  some  came  for  artistic  reasons,  others  to 
practice  their  technical  skills,  and  others  for  the  sense  of 
companionship  that  the  barn  afforded.  We  often  drank 


attached  at  two  separate  points  on  the  rib.  Misalignment 
of  rib  with  respect  to  this  line  was  corrected  by  gently 
tapping  the  rib  up  or  down  against  the  clamping  force  of 
the  steel  tie  rods. 

Allan  was  our  stern,  unbending  master.  He  had  the  final 
say  on  whether  the  alignment  was  within  the  proper 
tolerances.  Pressed  by  the  lack  of  time  I  was  angered  by 
his  demand  for  precision.  Later  George  told  me,  "I 
would  get  so  mad  at  Allan  I  could  kill  him,  but  that's 
O.K.  I  guess  .  .  .  conflict's  O.K.  when  there  are  sparks 
.  .  .  and  there  were."  In  the  final  analysis  we  all  benefit- 
ed immeasurably  by  Allan's  tenacity.  In  fact,  the  project 
never  would  have  worked  without  him. 

After  Allan  approved  the  ribs,  temporary  nails  were  driv- 
en through  the  side  rails  in  the  ends  of  the  ribs.  After 
this  the  ribs  were  permanently  attached  with  flathead 
wood  screws  driven  in  by  a  variable  speed  electric  drill.  I 
never  quite  got  used  to  the  ease  and  vigor  with  which  un- 
trained women  handled  the  drill. 


beer  and  listened  to  music  while  working  long  into  the 
night  until  total  exhaustion  overcame  everyone.  The  first 
major  task  was  building  work  tables  and  some  assembled 
fixtures.  Once  the  assembled  fixtures  were  available  we 
used  them  to  stack  the  curved  ribs  horizontally. 

January  13 

The  first  shipment  of  ribs  arrived.  We  nailed  spacer 
blocks  on  each  side  to  maintain  a  uniform  gap  between 
the  rib  and  ultimately  to  provide  an  intermediate 
support  for  the  rib.  Two  half  inch  diameter  steel  tie  rods 
equal  in  length  to  the  long  dimensions  of  the  frame  were 
then  threaded  through  the  ribs.  Nuts  on  the  ends  of  the 
rods  were  then  tightened  to  clamp  the  rib  assembly  to- 
gether. Plywood  side  rails  about  fourteen  inches  deep 
were  then  attached  to  the  ends  of  the  ribs  with  flat-head 
wood  screws.  A  very  tedious  part  of  this  operation  was 
precisely  aligning  all  of  the  ribs  with  respect  to  each 
other,  so  as  to  define  a  single  smooth  cylindrical  surface. 
We  did  this  alignment  by  using  carpenter's  chalk  lines 


The  frame  was  now  rigid  enough  (all  joints  were  glued  in 
addition  to  the  fasteners)  so  that  we  could  transfer  it  to 
another  assembly  location  for  attachment  of  the  front 
and  back  coverings.  The  back,  quarter  inch  thick  ply- 
wood, was  installed,  first  using  nails  and  then  glue.  For 
this  joyful,  noisy  operation  George  usually  gathered 
everyone  available  in  the  barn— men,  women  and 
children.  They  pounded  some  two  hundred  nails  in  wild 
rhythm.  While  the  glue  was  setting  we  prepared  the  nine- 
sixteenth  inch  thick  masonite  sheet  for  the  critical  front 
surface  that  was  eventually  to  support  the  mirror  mater- 
ial itself.  The  masonite  was  also  to  be  nailed  and  glued  to 
the  ribs,  but  due  to  the  somewhat  brittle  nature  of  this 
material  (which  was  an  advantage  in  the  final  sanding 
operation)  we  had  to  pre-drill  and  countersink  holes  for 
each  nail— three  hundred  fifty  holes  per  frame.  We  also 
had  to  drill  another  two  hundred  small  holes  to  pro- 
vide passage  for  the  vacuum  that  would  hold  the  plastic 
in  place.  Since  the  available  size  of  masonite  sheet  was 
too  small  to  cover  the  entire  frame,  we  had  to  butt  two 


356 


sheets  together  at  the  center— two  ribs  having  been  set 
close  together  to  support  the  joint.  Both  George  and 
Allan,  though  polite,  were  somewhat  critical  of  my 
choice  of  masonite  as  a  sanding  material.  I  therefore  was 
very  anxious  to  see  the  sanding  results  of  the  first  five  by 
seven  frame. 

I  was  victorious!  At  the  end  of  the  week  Jane  Living- 
ston, Associate  Curator,  Gail  Scott,  Assistant  Curator, 
and  James  Kenion  from  the  Museum  came  to  check  their 
financial  investment  and  see  our  first  finished  five  by 
seven  mirror.  George  put  up  scaffolding  so  they  could 
view  the  mirror  from  above.  They  were  flabbergasted  at 
our  speed  and  technical  competence. 

Everything  was  going  well  with  two  more  weeks  to  go. 
Our  supervisor  was  working  out  beyond  my  wildest 
imagination.  My  constant  state  of  panic  was  beginning  to 
ease,  even  though  one  night  Riva  and  I  half-seriously  dis- 
cussed where  I  could  hide  (Bali,  the  Sahara)  if  the 
project  failed.  A  feeling  of  euphoria  was  replacing  my 
tension.  Unfortunately  it  was  only  temporary  relief. 

The  sanding  on  the  small  frames  was  going  slower  than 
the  six  hours  I  had  anticipated.  Felicia's  and  George's 
signs  ("Sanding  Improves  Rhythm,"  "Sanding  Builds 
Busts,"  and  "Sanding  Brings  Good  Karma")  were  inspir- 
ing. They  brightened  up  the  barn,  but  didn't  improve 
our  sanding  record.  The  first  of  the  large  mirror  frames 
had  just  reached  the  sanding  stage.  A  couple  of  days 
were  needed  to  smooth  it  to  a  reasonable  accuracy. 


George  pressed  Riva  to  get  more  personnel  and  to  set  up 
work  schedules  around  the  clock.  She  gave  a  party  for 
the  high  school  in  an  effort  to  get  some  volunteers  and 
failed.  George  related,  "Walter  (Riva's  rather  large 
husband)  and  I  pushed  that  thing  back  and  forth  for  an 
hour.  I  wore  him  out  and  he  wore  me  out,  and  I  knew 
we  were  in  trouble." 

The  barn  was  getting  quiet  and  sad.  Twelve  more  days  to 
go.  A  crisis  conference  was  called.  We  decided  to  spend 


money  and  time  and  effort  to  build  a  sanding  machine.  I 
chose  the  most  dramatic  model  I  could  design.  [2]  I  was 
so  tired  I  remember  thinking  that  at  some  point,  they 
wouldn't  need  me,  and  I  could  take  a  rest. 

The  first  night's  work  on  the  sanding  machine  was  frus- 
trating. George  forcibly  sent  me  home  at  one  o'clock  so 
I  could  start  fresh  the  next  day.  I  still  had  to  go  to  my 
regular  job  at  Philco-Ford,  and  I  had  all  the  other  objects 
to  design  for  the  final  installation  in  Japan.  The  next  day 
I  drove  to  L.A.  to  get  the  gears;  that  night  I  was  so 
exhausted  I  couldn't  figure  out  what  I  had  bought. 
George  sent  over  a  young  man,  Richard  Berryhill,  a 
machinist,  to  help  me.  He  had  read  about  us  in  the  news- 
paper, and  had  stopped  to  see  if  we  needed  help.  He 
came  back  carrying  a  case  of  tools.  His  timing  was  in- 
credible, and  the  beautiful  part  was  I  didn't  have  to 
explain  anything.  He  knew  exactly  what  went  with 
what,  and  he  had  the  right  tools.  Five  of  us,  inspired  by 
Richard,  worked  until  five  in  the  morning.  He  sensed  our 
appreciation  and  he  realized  how  much  we  needed  him. 
After  all,  how  many  times  in  your  life  can  you  be  such  a 
hero!  We  didn't  quit  until  that  huge  mechanical  mon- 
strosity worked.  The  source  of  power  was  a  one  horse- 
power electric  motor,  whose  speed  was  slowed  down  to 
about  two  rpm  through  a  home-made  speed  reducer  in- 
corporating a  "V"  belt  pulley  from  a  defunct  washer- 
dryer  and  a  collection  of  chain  spocket  wheels.  This 
mechanism  drove  a  three  foot  crank  arm  to  which  a  fif- 
teen foot  long  wooden  connecting  rod  was  attached, 
with  a  pivot  bearing.  The  connecting  rod  communicated 
to  the  top  of  an  enormous  vertical  wooden  arm  eighteen 
feet  long,  hinged  two-thirds  of  the  way  up  to  supports 
on  the  building  roof  trusses.  This  arm  doubled  the 
stroke  length  so  that  we  could  cover  the  seven  foot 
mirror  frame.  I  felt  like  Rube  Goldberg,  my  child- 
hood hero.  The  sanding  machine  was  a  project 
within  a  project.  It  produced  a  tremendous  uplift.  The 
sanding  millstone  was  off  our  necks. 

At  this  point  Bert  Altemis,  who  had  just  finished  the 
orals  for  his  doctorate  in  psychology,  came  armed  with 
sleeping  bag.  He  made  sure  the  sanding  machine  was 
manned  sixteen  hours  a  day  seven  days  a  week.  A  Japan- 
ese flag  and  an  American  flag  decorated  the  machine 
along  with  a  Felicia-made  sign  which  read. 

Sandman's  Lullaby 

Cherished  Sandman 

Bring  us  our  dream 
Make  these  the  smoothest 

Mirrors 

|/\|!LLOL2 

We've  ever  seen! 

Pilots  of  this  Keen  Machine 

Who  helped  us  with  promises  to  keep 

And  sanded  miles  and  miles  before  we  all  can  sleep! 


357 


A&T 


January  24 

Riva,  who  was  completely  enamored  of  the  machine, 
threw  a  huge  party  at  the  barn  in  the  machine's  honor. 
Her  son's  rock  band  blasted  over  the  noise  of  the  sand- 
ing. Fifty  people  came  and  had  a  great  time. 

We  had  lost  one  week.  Our  original  goal  was  only  seven 
days  away.  Realizing  it  was  impossible  to  meet  this  dead- 
line, I  asked  for  an  extension  to  a  shipment  date  of  Feb- 
ruary 9.  It  was  granted. 

Time  was  still  critical,  and  energies  were  running  out. 
Yet  George  felt  we  should  take  out  time  to  build  a  small 
model  of  the  Japanese  installation  of  the  mirrors  to  keep 
up  people's  enthusiasm.  George  was  sure  people  wanted 
to  see  a  facsimile  of  the  final  project.  Actually  the 
project  had  proceeded  on  two  levels:  the  intellectual, 
technical  design  and  problem-solving  level;  and  the 
emotionally  exciting  group  construction  effort.  George's 
thing  was  the  group  effort.  It  was  only  halfway  through 
the  project  that  he  realized  we  were  trying  to  hold  .002 
inch  to  .004  inch.  He  was  frustrated  with  something  he 
couldn't  physically  see  with  his  eye.  But  he  knew  his 
public.  The  model  worked.  A  Los  Angeles  Times  report- 
er, Lael  Morgan,  wrote  a  brilliant  feature  article  which 
accurately  caught  our  spirit.  She  and  her  photographer 
were  impressed  by  the  model.  Two  days  later  Jim 
Cooper,  a  well-known  TV  reporter,  and  his  crew,  moved 
in.  They  spent  five  hours  preparing  a  six  minute  pro- 
gram. Our  model  was  an  important  part  of  the  show.  We 


were  receiving  so  many  visitors  now  that  George  ap- 
pointed five  hostesses  whom  I  briefed  to  answer  all  ques- 
tions and  keep  our  guests  out  of  the  workers'  way.  In- 
stead of  losing  workers,  we  picked  up  new  ones. 

We  had  one  and  a  half  weeks  left,  and  most  of  us  were 
very  tired.  Sanding  around  the  clock  we  were  able  to 
finish  the  frames  with  enough  leeway  to  do  some  testing 
of  the  final  results.  Using  our  homemade  spherometer 
we  found  that  with  about  five  hours  of  sanding  we  could 
achieve  a  smoothness  of  .002  inch  over  the  ten  inch  span 
of  our  measuring  device,  measured  along  the  curved  di- 
rection of  the  frame.  Along  the  straight  direction  of  the 
cylinder  the  errors  were  somewhat  larger— as  high  as  .006 
inch  in  places,  probably  due  to  the  difficulty  we  had  in 
holding  alignment  between  ribs  in  the  initial  assembly 
operation.  The  final  test  was  to  install  the  plexiglass  mir- 
ror sheets  together  with  the  vacuum  system  to  hold  this 
material  in  place.  The  first  tests  were  already  encourag- 
ing, showing  much  smoother  images  than  in  my  proto- 
type model.  We  became  very  aware  of  the  tolerances  we 
were  trying  to  meet  when  we  noticed  that  some  visually 
prominent  local  bumps  in  the  mirror  could  be  traced  to 
nearly  microscopic  specks  of  dirt  trapped  between  the 
mirror  sheet  and  the  frame.  Cleaning  finally  had  to  be 
finished  by  using  our  bare  hands  to  feel  out  and  remove 
these  specks.  Another  more  serious  source  of  distortion 
turned  out  to  be  due  to  local  non-uniformities  in  the 
paint  that  the  mirror  manufacturer  used  to  protect  the 
rear  surface  of  reflective  aluminum  film.  Small  runs  in 


-v/z/V/y 


lAjLi 


g^vW^: 


\ 


/■■///y/ 


M'WoR,   SANPH-JC.^    M ACM  MS- 


/■-+-'(9' 


1/5/70 


358 


this  paint  layer,  which  were  probably  only  a  few  thou- 
sandths of  an  inch  high,  had  to  be  removed  by  hand 
sanding  with  a  very  fine  grade  of  emery  paper  so  as  not 
to  sand  through  the  reflecting  coating.  The  last  stages  of 
testing  were  done  with  complete  sets  of  upper  and  lower 
mirrors  so  that  the  quality  of  the  real  images  could  be 
examined.  (It  was  very  difficult  to  assess  the  individual 
mirrors  because  of  the  peculiar  nature  of  cylindrical 
images.)  We  did  a  crude  kind  of  Foucault  test  on  the  set 
of  mirrors  in  which  one's  nose  was  the  source  and  the 
iris  of  his  eye  the  knife  edge!  This  strange  test  proved 
sensitive  enough  to  show  all  the  effects  of  dirt,  paint  and 
excessive  vacuum.  We  decided  that  two  of  the  mirrors 
had  some  unacceptable  rib-to-rib  distortions,  and  re- 
turned these  to  the  sanding  operation.  Since  we  had 
assembled  one  extra  set  of  mirror  frames,  we  left  the 
worst  pair  for  sanding  during  the  shipping  operation— to 
make  use  of  the  sanding  machine  before  disassembly. 

February  7 

George  had  promised  Riva  he  would  have  most  of  the 
frames  packed,  the  mirrors  crated,  and  the  floor  cleared 
in  time  for  her  final  Saturday  night  party.  George's  op- 
timism, at  times,  is  not  to  be  believed.  Not  only  was  he 
not  ready,  but  he  drafted  Riva  and  her  party  crew  to  do 
the  packing.  By  8:00  P.M.  everyone  was  so  tired,  the 
idea  of  a  party  was  painful.  But  I  had  invited  the  whole 
town  to  free  wine,  food,  and  live  music.  I  made  a  point 
at  7:30  P.M.  of  asking  Riva  to  locate  a  special  Chinese 
ink  pen  in  order  to  have  people  sign  a  guest  sheet.  She 
nodded  incredulously,  too  tired  to  complain,  and  our 
hundred  guests  signed  with  a  plain  pen.  Good  feelings 
ran  high.  Eddie  Sturm  took  pictures  of  all  the  party- 
goers.  There  were  free  rides  all  night  on  the  sanding 
machine.  The  barn  rocked  out  for  the  last  time  until 
three  in  the  morning. 


February  8 

The  next  day  we  felt  a  great  letdown.  We  packed  the 
crates  morosely  and  in  silence.  On  each  crate  was  sten- 
cilled "To  our  Japanese  brothers,  with  love."  George  was 
the  most  thorough  packer  I  had  ever  seen.  Thanks  to 
him  everything  arrived  in  Japan  in  one  piece.  Even  the 
mirrors,  in  a  box  that  looked  like  it  had  been  dropped  to 
the  ground  from  thirty  feet,  arrived  undamaged. 

February  9 

It  rained  furiously.  We  put  the  crates  on  the  truck  and 

collapsed. 

Why  had  the  project  succeeded?  To  begin  with,  Laguna 
is  an  ideal  sized  town  with  a  population  of  1 1 ,000.  Visi- 
tors dropped  in  because  they  were  just  walking  by  and 
were  curious.  Publicity  also  helped  and  word  spread 
quickly.  Some  began  to  feel  this  was  not  just  a  Unitarian 
project,  but  a  Laguna  project  and  non-Unitarians  like 
Richard  Berryhill  came. 

In  the  middle  of  the  project  I  realized  that  only  a  few 
understood  the  scientific  details  and  could  care  less. 
Only  Allan  and  I  cared.  Occasionally  when  we  had  tech- 
nical snags  to  unwind  like  the  rib  alignment  problem,  I 
felt  everyone  was  saying  "I  wish  they'd  hurry  up  and  get 
over  their  hang-up  so  we  can  go  back  to  doing  our 
thing."  Most,  however,  sensed  the  intrinsic  value  in  the 
project,  primarily  the  value  of  process.  The  barn  had  a 
good  feeling  of  warmth  and  community,  and  the  sub- 
tasks  were  simply  organized  for  success.  Another  value- 
one  that  I've  never  before  vocalized  but,  of  course, 
knew— was  the  sensual  aspect  of  physical  work.  Every- 
one enjoyed  the  hammering,  gluing,  sanding,  and  even 
the  menial  task  of  sweeping  and  cleaning  the  bathrooms. 

John  Forkner,  August,  1970 


William  T.  Wiley  A&T 

Born  Bedford,  Indiana,  1937 
Resident  Woodacre,  California 


William  T.  Wiley  met  with  us  in  Los  Angeles  to  discuss 
the  possibility  of  his  participation  in  A  &  T.  We  de- 
scribed Norris  Industries  and  two  divisions  of  Dart  In- 
dustries: Riker  Labs  and  Syroco,  and  gave  him  corpora- 
tion literature  to  study.  In  a  telephone  conversation  a 
few  weeks  later,  Wiley  indicated  that  he  was  not  suffici- 
ently interested  in  any  of  these  companies  to  pursue  the 
matter,  and  at  the  time  we  had  no  other  company  to 
offer  him. 


360 


361  Participating  Corporations  A&T 


American  Cement  Corporation 

American  Standard 

Ampex  Corporation 

Bank  of  America 

Container  Corporation  of  America 

Cowles  Communications,  Inc. 

Cummins  Engine  Company,  Inc. 

Dart  Industries 

Eldon  Industries,  Inc. 

The  Garrett  Corporation,  Life  Sciences  Dept. 

Gemini  G.E.L. 

General  Electric 

Hall  Inc.  Surgical  Systems 

Heath  and  Company 

Hewlett-Packard  Company 

Hudson  Institute 

Information  International 

International  Business  Machines  Corporation 

International  Chemical  &  Nuclear  Corporation 

Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory 

Kaiser  Steel  Corporation 

Kleiner-Bell  Foundation 

Lear  Siegler,  Inc. 

Litton  Industries,  Inc. 

Lockheed  Aircraft  Corporation 

Mifran-Bowman  Corporation 

Norris  Industries 

North  American  Rockwell  Corporation 

Pan  American  World  Airways 

Philco-Ford  Corporation 

The  RAND  Corporation 

RCA 

Teledyne,  Inc. 

Times  Mirror  Foundation 

TRW  Systems  Group  of  TRW,  Inc. 

Twentieth  Century-Fox  Film  Corporation 

Universal  City  Studios,  Inc. 

Universal  Television  Company 

WED  Enterprises,  Inc. 

Wyle  Laboratories 


American  Cement  Corporation 


American  Standard 


362 


American  Cement  Corporation  was  formed  in  1958  by 
consolidation  of  three  cement  companies  in  California, 
Michigan  and  Pennsylvania.  Acquisition  of  Pascoe  Steel 
Corporation  led  eventually  in  1968  to  a  management 
shakeup  from  which  Pascoe's  president  emerged  as 
American  Cement  president.  Another  acquisition,  Ted 
Smith  Aircraft,  brought  heavy  losses.  American  Cement 
now  owns  a  new  ski  resort,  Snowmass-at-Aspen,  and  a 
company  that  makes  swimming  pools  and  mini-bikes. 
American  Cement  is  one  of  a  handful  of  top  cement  pro- 
ducers which  have  established  research  centers: 
American's  Technical  Center  near  Riverside,  California 
began  by  examining  cement's  structural  characteristics, 
but  in  the  last  year  has  turned  to  researching  possible 
new  applications  with  other  structural  materials. 

Patron  Sponsor 

See:  Jean  Dubuffet,  Sam  Francis,  Philip  King,  Jules 
Olitski,  Robert  Smithson 


American  Standard  manufactures  and  internationally 
distributes  building  products  including  plumbing  fixtures 
and  fittings,  residential  and  industrial  air  conditioning 
units  and  heating  and  ventilation  equipment.  The  com- 
pany's major  subsidiary,  Mosler  Safe  Company,  special- 
izes in  industrial  security  systems,  data  storage  and  re- 
trieval equipment  and  office  furniture  and  accessories. 

Sponsor 

See:  Sam  Francis 


AMERICAN 
STANDARD 


Ampex  Corporation 


Bank  of  America 


A&T 


Ampex  Corporation  was  founded  in  1944  to  develop 
new  radar  technology.  Since  then  it  has  found  itself  in 
races  with  other  high-technology  companies:  with  Japan- 
ese companies  in  audio  and  video  tape  recorders  and 
with  American  companies  in  consumer  products  like  cas- 
settes and  8-track  tapes.  Ampex  makes  16-track  record- 
ers for  the  entertainment  industry,  memory  cores  for 
computers,  video  tape  systems  for  UHF  television 
stations.  In  Los  Angeles,  the  Sheriff's  office  uses  an 
Ampex  system  to  view  fingerprints  over  television.  The 
Vietnam  war  has  slowed  Ampex's  probe  into  even  more 
sophisticated  research  in  information  storage  and 
retrieval. 


Bank  of  America  is  the  world's  largest  non-government 
bank. 

Benefactor 


Bank  oi  Am^rtrct 


Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Frederick  Eversley 

See  also:  Michael  Asher,  John  Chamberlain,  Frangois 
Dallegret,  Sam  Francis,  Hans  Haacke,  Philip 
King,  Les  Levine,  Robert  Morris,  Jules  Olitski, 
James  Rosenquist,  Andy  Warhol 


AMPEX 


Container  Corporation  of  America 


Cowles  Communication,  Inc. 


364 


Container  Corporation  of  America  is  the  nation's  largest 
manufacturer  of  paperboard  products.  Its  parent  com- 
pany, Marcor,  Inc.,  was  formed  in  1968  to  combine  Con- 
tainer Corporation  and  Montgomery  Ward.  Container 
Corporation  makes  shipping  containers,  folding  cartons, 
fibre  cans,  paper  bags  and  a  pulp  used  for  packaging  and 
shipping  many  commodities  including  food  products, 
automobile  and  petroleum  products. 

Patron  Sponsor 


Cowles  Communication,  Inc.,  is  one  of  the  largest  con- 
sumer-magazine publishers,  with  Look  magazine.  Cowles 
is  also  involved  in  newspaper  and  book  publishing,  radio 
and  TV  broadcasting.  It  pioneered  three-dimensional 
printing  with  its  Xography  process. 

Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Andy  Warhol 


Artist  in  residence:  Tony  Smith 
See  also:  Oyvind  Fahlstrom,  Les  Levine,  Jeff  Raskin, 
James  Rosenquist 


Cummins  Engine  Company  Inc. 


Dart  Industries 


A&T 


Cummins  Engine  Company  Inc.,  has  branched  out  from 
its  Columbus,  Indiana  headquarters  to  a  network  of 
plants  and  sales  offices,  all  producing  or  selling  diesel 
engines,  in  Ohio,  Australia,  Nassau  and  Tokyo.  Engines 
for  boats,  trucks,  busses,  and  industries  like  logging  and 
farming  still  make  up  all  but  about  ten  percent  of 
Cummins'  sales.  The  company  also  makes  automotive  air 
conditioners,  air  and  oil  filters,  and  rebuilds  its  own 
engines. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Jean  Dupuy 


Dart  Industries,  formerly  Rexall  Drug  &  Chemical  Com- 
pany, gradually  expanded  into  consumer  products  such 
as  Tupperware  tableware,  West  Bend  Cookware, 
Thatcher  glass  bottles,  and  Babcock-Phillips  cushions 
and  pillows.  These  products  now  make  up  most  of  Dart's 
profits,  the  rest  coming  from  Rexall  products.  Dart  sold 
to  3-M  Corporation  rnost  of  Riker  Laboratories,  a 
higher-risk  operation,  along  with  Riker's  British  propri- 
etary drug  outlets,  but  saved  Seamless  Company,  a  Riker 
producer  of  hospital  supplies. 

Patron  Sponsor 

See:  John  Chamberlain,  Jeff  Raskin 


m)^^[^'ir 


IhslDLJSTF^IES   irNl< 


CUMMINS 


Eldon  Industries,  Inc. 


The  Garrett  Corporation 


366 


Eldon  Industries,  Inc.,  specializes  in  electromechanical 
toys  and  sells  about  a  tenth  as  many  toys  as  Mattel, 
located  in  the  same  city,  Hawthorne,  California.  Eldon  is 
the  largest  manufacturer  of  electrical  hand  soldering 
tools,  and  also  makes  underwater  sports  equipment. 

Sponsor 

See:  Jeff  Raskin 


The  Garrett  Corporation's  specialty  has  been  designing 
high-performance  jet  engines  for  military  aircraft,  but  in 
the  last  few  years  Garrett  (a  subsidiary  of  The  Signal 
Companies)  began  receiving  contracts  to  produce  jet 
engines  for  American,  German  and  French  business  air- 
craft as  well.  For  future  rapid  transit  systems,  Garrett 
has  experimented  with  a  Linear  Induction  Motor  which 
would  power  250  mph  trains.  Its  Life  Sciences  Depart- 
ment developed  environmental  control  systems  (temper- 
ature, pressure,  air  purity)  for  all  NASA  space  vehicles. 
Its  simulation  of  weightlessness  helps  research  into  long- 
life  space  missions.  Though  Garrett  applied  Its  environ- 
mental control  to  commercial  aircraft,  government  con- 
tracts still  make  up  half  of  the  company's  sales. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artists  in  residence:  Robert  Irwin,  James  Turrell 

See  also:  lain  Baxter,  Len  Lye 


Gemini  G.E.L. 


General  Electric 


A&T 


Gemini  G.E.L.  is  a  publishing  house  that  commissions 
major  contemporary  artists  to  produce  limited  fine  art 
editions.  It  was  originally  formed  in  1965  as  a  hand 
lithography  worl<shop  and  became  additionally  a  work- 
shop for  research  operations  and  the  creation  of  dimen- 
sional objects,  along  with  a  gallery  space.  The  staff  of 
Gemini  collaborates  with  some  twenty  manufacturing 
facilities  around  the  world.  Gemini  has  published  over 
three  hundred  multiples,  both  two-  and  three-dimension- 
al, by  Jasper  Johns,  Ellsworth  Kelly,  Roy  Lichtenstein, 
Robert  Rauschenberg,  Frank  Stella,  Kenneth  Price,  Josef 
Albers,  Ctaes  Oldenburg  and  many  others. 

Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Claes  Oldenburg 


General  Electric,  besides  making  lamps  and  consumer 
appliances,  is  involved  in  manufacturing  industrial  equip- 
ment and  in  aerospace  and  defense  technology,  areas 
which  make  up  three-fourths  of  its  worldwide  sales.  It 
makes  jet  aircraft  engines,  equipment  for  nuclear  reac- 
tors, and  computers.  (The  competitive  large-computer 
market  led  GE  and  Honeywell  to  propose  a  merger  of 
their  computer  divisions.)  Besides  its  other  aerospace 
and  defense  contracts,  which  included  Apollo  equip- 
ment, GE  has  its  own  think  tank,  called  TEMPO,  which 
runs  seminars  on  nuclear  weapons  and  studies  economic 
development  for  underdeveloped  countries.  At  Nela 
Park,  Ohio,  G.E.  Lamp  Division  operates  a  Lighting 
Institute  with  seminars  in  demonstration  rooms  for 
architects  and  engineers;  the  facility  also  researches  new 
lighting  technology  and  produces  components  such  as 
glass  and  metals. 

Patron  Sponsor 

See;  Ron  Cooper,  Dan  Flavin,  James  Seawright 


Hall  Inc.,  Surgical  Systems 


Heath  and  Company 


368 


Hall  Inc.,  Surgical  Systems,  grew  out  of  a  product  which 
oral  surgeon  Dr.  Robert  Hall  invented  in  1963,  an  air- 
driven,  highspeed  hand  drill  used  for  surgery.  Hall 
adapted  the  turbine  driven  instrument  for  neurosurgery, 
orthopedic  surgery  and  microsurgery.  It  is  sold  world- 
wide. 

Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Wesley  Duke  Lee 


Heath  and  Company,  owned  by  the  New  York  Electrical 
contracting  firm  Fischbach  &  Moore,  Inc.,  is  one  of  the 
top  ten  electric  sign  makers  in  the  U.S.  The  Los  Angeles- 
based  company  produces  metal  and  plastic  signs  for 
hotels,  markets,  drug  stores,  and  car  lots. 

Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Oyvind  Fahlstrom 

See  also:  John  Baldessari 


Hewlett-Packard  Company 


The  Hudson  Institute 


A&T 


Hewlett-Packard  Company's  principal  products  are  elec- 
tronic measuring  instruments  which  classify  solid,  liquid 
and  gaseous  chemical  compounds,  measure  electrical 
variables,  and  record  medical  and  biophysical  data. 
Besides  making  other  devices  used  in  ultrasonic  detec- 
tion and  in  data  processing  (desk-top  calculators,  time- 
sharing systems),  Hewlett-Packard  is  also  heavily  in- 
volved in  defense  equipment:  radar,  guided  missile 
control,  nuclear  research. 

Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Rockne  Krebs 


The  Hudson  Institute  was  founded  by  Herman  Kahn 
after  he  left  the  Rand  Corporation.  It  receives  most  of 
its  funding  from  the  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense 
for  studies  on  political  and  economic  problems  of 
foreign  underdeveloped  countries,  for  studies  on  strate- 
gic U.S.  defense  systems,  and  for  a  substantial  number  of 
classified  studies  on  military  technology  and  counter- 
insurgency  warfare.  Like  many  non-profit  think  tanks, 
the  Hudson  Institute  has  begun  to  concentrate  more  on 
domestic  economic  development  problems  such  as  urban 
transportation  and  planning,  and  poverty.  Studies  of 
economic  and  political  models  projected  a  few  decades 
ahead  resulted  in  a  book  by  Kahn  and  another  Hudson 
researcher,  Anthony  J.  Wiener,  called  The  Year  2000:  A 
Framework  for  Speculation. 


HEWLETT 


PACKARD 


Sponsor 


Artist  in  residence:  James  Byars 


HUDSON  INSTITUTE 


Information  International 


Internationa!  Business  Machines  Corporation 


370 


Information  International,  is  one  of  many  companies 
specializing  in  computer  peripheral  equipment  and  is  the 
principal  producer  of  equipment  which  can  read  graphs, 
maps,  print,  microscope  images,  and  telescope  images 
and  translate  them  into  computer  language.  The  com- 
pany also  makes  computer  microfilm  systems  (which 
translate  computer  language  into  visual  images),  thereby 
joining  much  larger,  established  competitors  like  Kodak, 
3-M  and  Stromberg  DatagraphiX.  It  is  one  of  a  handful 
of  computer  companies  experimenting  in  animating 
those  visual  images  for  scientific  research  and  engineer- 
ing. 

Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Jackson  MacLow 

See  also:  Wesley  Duke  Lee,  Eduardo  Paolozzi 


International  Business  Machines  Corporation  is  still  the 
monolith  of  the  computer  industry;  IBM  usually  sets 
computer  selling  and  maintenance  trends  by  example, 
although  many  smaller  companies  are  finding  specialized 
programming  markets  where  IBM  can't  go.  Its  subsidiary 
World  Trade  Corporation,  which  computes  hotel  rooms 
in  Japan,  rainfall  in  Mexico  and  stock  prices  in  Germany, 
symbolizes  how  rapidly  the  world  is  being  computerized. 
IBM  computers  are  used  at  the  Houston  Manned  Space- 
craft Center  and  aboard  the  Apollo  spacecraft.  IBM's  re- 
search explores  new  kinds  of  information  storage,  but 
IBM  also  still  makes  small  business  machines  like  type- 
writers. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Jesse  Reichek 

See  also:  Jackson  MacLow,  Eduardo  Paolozzi,  Victor 
Vasarely 


International  Chemical  and  Nuclear  Corporation 


Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory 


A&T 


International  Chemical  and  Nuclear  Corporation,  located 
in  Pasadena,  sells  pharmaceuticals,  radio-active  isotopes, 
health  and  beauty  aids.  Its  nucleic  acid  research  institute 
explores  memory,  learning  and  aging  processes. 

Sponsor 

See:  John  Chamberlain,  Mark  di  Suvero 


Jet  Propulsion  Laboratory,  operated  by  the  California 
Institute  of  Technology,  is  the  center  of  advanced  re- 
search and  planning  of  U.S.  space  programs,  and  its  level 
of  activity  consequently  depends  on  NASA  funding.  JPL 
was  project  manager  for  the  Mariner  flybys  past  Mars, 
and  is  managing  the  Grand  Tour  past  Jupiter,  Saturn, 
Uranus  and  Neptune  in  the  late  1970's,  as  well  as  what- 
ever space  programs  NASA  can  fund  in  addition.  JPL's 
primary  job  besides  this  has  been  deep  space  radio  tele- 
scope probes  and  spacecraft  tracking,  but  it  continues  a 
good  deal  of  research  in  physical  sciences  (theory  of  rela- 
tivity), electronics  and  telecommunications.  It  is  doing 
studies  on  applying  space  program  organization  to  social 
problems. 

Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Newton  Harrison 

See  also:  Michael  Asher,  James  Byars 


Kaiser  Steel  Corporation 


Kleiner-Bell  Foundation 


372 


Kaiser  Steel  Corporation,  largest  steel  producer  on  the 
West  Coast  and  tenth-largest  in  the  country,  operates  its 
own  coal  and  ore  mines  (including  some  in  Australia  and 
British  Columbia)  for  use  in  its  twelve  mills  in  Fontana, 
California.  Kaiser's  mill  and  fabricated  products  have  run 
into  competition  with  Japanese  imports,  which  now 
makes  up  a  fourth  of  the  steel  available  on  the  West 
Coast.  Kaiser  has  entered  the  modular  and  pre-fabricated 
housing  field.  Along  with  Kaiser  Aluminum  and  Chemi- 
cal, Kaiser  Steel  jointly  owns  United  International 
Shipping  Corporation. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Richard  Serra 

See  also;  Frangois  Dallegret,  Mark  di  Suvero,  Philip 

King,  Len  Lye,  Jules  Olitski,  Robert  Smithson 


Kleiner-Bell  Foundation  is  endowed  by  Kleiner,  Bell  & 
Company,  a  well  known  West  Coast  brokerage  firm. 

Benefactor 


INDUSTRI 


Lear  Siegler,  Inc. 


Litton  Industries,  Inc. 


A&T 


Lear  Siegler,  Inc.,  primarily  manufactures  support  equip- 
ment and  systems  for  several  industries:  axles  and  auto 
diagnostic  centers  for  the  auto  industry,  guidance  sys- 
tems for  aircraft  and  weapons,  air  conditioning  and  heat- 
ing units  for  mobile  homes,  and  maintenance  centers  for 
aircraft.  In  Europe  and  the  U.S.,  it  is  one  of  the  largest 
auto  seat  manufacturers.  It  also  makes  Bogen  hi-fis  and 
Olympic  televisions,  and  operates  twenty -eight  technical 
schools  in  the  U.S.  Its  main  technological  development 
goes  into  aerospace  (including  some  Apollo  guidance 
equipment),  but  some  research  has  led  to  a  six-way 
bucket  seat  adjuster  for  1970's  cars. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Robert  Morris 


Litton  Industries,  Inc.,  is  a  large  conglomerate  with  a 
solid  foothold  in  military  contracts.  Litton  builds  sub- 
marines, amphibious  assault  ships,  and  advanced 
guidance  and  fire  control  systems,  selling  the  latter  to 
Germany,  Japan,  Italy  and  Canada  as  well  as  to  the  U.S. 
Litton  also  makes  Royal  typewriters  and  Profexray 
X-ray  tables,  is  the  country's  largest  builder  of  paper  and 
pulp  mills,  sells  technical  books  (American  Book  Com- 
pany) and  manufactures  laser  crystals.  Its  Stouffer 
Foods  sent  food  with  Apollo,  while  another  subsidiary. 
Western  Geophysical,  explores  the  world  for  petroleum. 
Research  in  microcircuitry  (one  step  beyond  integrated 
circuits)  is  tailored  to  the  military  market. 

Patron  Sponsor 

See:  John  McCracken,  Boyd  Mefferd,  Robert  Morris, 
Vjenceslav  Richter 


Lockheed  Aircraft  Corporation 


Mifran-Bowman  Corporation 


374 


Lockheed  Aircraft  Corporation,  the  nation's  number  one 
Department  of  Defense  contractor,  has  long  been  a 
leader  in  military  aircraft.  In  that  position  it  has  been 
particularly  vulnerable  to  critical  attitudes  in  Congress 
and  the  Pentagon.  It  produces  the  C-5A,  world's  largest 
aircraft,  for  the  Air  Force,  and  is  developing  advanced 
anti-submarine  aircraft  for  the  Navy.  In  the  commercial 
market,  it  makes  the  L-1011,  competitor  for  McDonnell- 
Douglas'  DC-10.  At  its  Rye  Canyon,  California,  research 
facility  it  wind-tests  prototype  aircraft,  tests  antennae 
systems,  researches  new  materials,  and  does  solar 
research  for  NASA. 


Mifran-Bowman  Corporation,  deals  in  materials' 
handling,  specializing  primarily  in  forklifts  and  pallet 
trucks.  The  company  is  one  of  the  largest  local  firms  to- 
sell,  lease  and  service  this  type  of  equipment. 

Contributing  Sponsor 


miFRRn-bomRn 


Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  R.  B.  Kitaj 

See  also:  Robert  Irwin 


Norris  Industries 


North  American  Rockwell  Corporation 


A&T 


Norris  Industries  has  been  a  major  ordnance  manufactur- 
er since  World  War  II,  and  has  since  applied  its  expertise 
in  forming  metal  cartridge  and  bomb  cases  to  the  manu- 
facture of  compressed  gas  containers,  fire  extinguishers, 
electrical  outlet  boxes  and  automobile  wheels.  Its 
Thermador  Division  manufactures  large  home  appliances 
such  as  electric  ranges  and  ovens,  heaters  and  dishwash- 
ers. Several  other  divisions  supply  brass  fixtures  for 
homes  and  industry.  Although  Norris  has  begun  to  diver- 
sify even  more,  for  example  with  the  purchase  of  Waste 
King  Corporation,  the  company's  sales  continue  to  be 
primarily  military. 

Sponsor 

See:  Philip  King,  John  McCracken,  Peter  Voulkos 


North  American  Rockwell  Corporation  is  a  principal 
Apollo  program  contractor. 

Benefactor 


NORRIS 


Pan  American  World  Airways 


Philco-Ford  Corporation 


376 


Pan  American  World  Airways,  "the  world's  most  experi- 
enced airline,"  was  the  first  company  to  put  747s  in  the 
air. 

Benefactor 


Philco-Ford  Corporation  is  the  high-technology  arm  of 
Ford  Motor  Company,  although  it  still  makes  appliances, 
televisions  and  stereos  for  the  U.S.,  Japan,  Europe  and 
Latin  America.  Philco-Ford  helped  Apollo,  produced 
Mariner  communications  systems,  and  developed  anti- 
tank missiles  and  air  defense  systems  for  the  Army  and 
Air  Force  and  radar  for  the  Coast  Guard.  Its  Aeronu- 
tronics  Division  in  Newport  Beach,  California,  which  has 
developed  laser  target  designators  for  air-dropped 
weapons,  along  with  other  major  systems,  is  grouped 
along  with  Education  Operations  and  a  few  other 
divisions  under  the  heading  Aerospace  and  Defense  Sys- 
tems Operation. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Robert  Whitman 

See  also:  John  McCracken,  Robert  Morris 


Philco-Ford 


The  RAND  Corporation 


RCA 


A&T 


The  RAND  Corporation  (from  Researcli  and  Develop- 
ment) began  in  1946  as  a  special  project  of  Douglas  Air- 
craft Company  for  the  Air  Force;  Rand  was  to  examine 
the  many  international  variables  which  would  control 
U.S.  foreign  policy.  The  think  tank  still  receives  most  of 
its  funding  from  the  Air  Force,  Department  of  Defense 
and  AID  for  studying  such  foreign  policy  factors  as  fer- 
tility rates  in  Pakistan  and  the  influence  of  the  Church 
on  Latin  American  culture  and  politics.  Rand  monitors 
the  Indochina  war,  has  published  volumes  on  Middle 
East  politics  and  economy,  and  studies  insurgency.  It 
makes  models  (scenarios)  of  possible  military  interac- 
tions. Its  first  step  into  domestic  problems  has  been 
studying  where  the  interdisciplinary  approach  can  un- 
tangle city  budgets,  combat  VD,  relieve  fire  departments 
and  predict  the  impact  of  urban  renewal.  A  large  part  of 
Rand's  work  remains  classified. 

Sponsor 

Artists  in  residence:  Larry  Bell,  John  Chamberlain 


RCA  depends  on  the  consumer  market  (televisions, 
records,  stereo  tapes,  hi-fi  and  stereo  equipment)  for 
most  of  its  sales.  National  Broadcasting  Corporation, 
Random  House  and  RCA  Global  Communications, 
which  leases  its  satellite  and  cable  transmissions,  contrib- 
ute about  half  as  much.  RCA  also  owns  Hertz  Rentals 
and  makes  electronic  systems,  including  radar,  guidance 
systems,  communications  systems  and  small  computers 
for  aerospace  and  defense  markets.  While  RCA  expands 
consumer  sales  around  the  world,  its  research  is  geared 
toward  compactness:  integrated  circuits  and  color  cart- 
ridge video  tape  machines  for  consumers.  RCA  applies 
computers  to  classroom  instruction  and  runs  its  own 
technical  schools. 

Patron  Sponsor 

See:  Walter  de  Maria,  Sam  Francis,  Glenn  McKay,  James 
Rosenquist,  Victor  Vasarely,  Andy  Warhol 


nu 


MRD 


^^^ftp^fUltC(XK 


RCil 


Teledyne 


The  Times  Mirror  Foundation 
Times  Mirror  Company 


378 


Teledyne  in  its  ten-year  history  has  formed  expertise 
that  ranges  from  electronics  to  materials  technology, 
aviation,  and  industrial  equipment.  Teledyne  makes 
super  alloys  for  jet  engines,  gear  rolling  machines  for  the 
auto  industry,  special  metals  for  nuclear  generators,  and 
avionics  systems  for  military  and  commercial  aircraft. 

Its  activities  in  propulsion  include  building  piston 
engines  for  general  aviation,  jet  engines  for  airplanes, 
multi-fuel  engines  for  industry,  and  air-cooled  engines 
for  recreation.  Teledyne  provided  Doppler  radar  for  the 
Apollo  Lunar  Module  landing,  and  also  makes  equip- 
ment for  geological  exploration,  the  Water  Pik  for  oral 
hygiene,  electronically  controlled  pilot-less  supersonic 
aircraft,  and  television  and  stereo. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Robert  Rauschenberg 

See  also:  Victor  Vasarely 


The  Times  Mirror  Foundation  is  endowed  by  the  Times 
Mirror  Company,  which  publishes  the  Los  Angeles  Times 
and  other  newspapers,  magazines,  and  books. 

Benefactor 


Cos  Attsdes  Simes 


TRW  Systems 


Twentieth  Century-Fox  Film  Corporation 


A&T 


TRW  Systems  is  a  high-technology  company  specializing 
in  electronics  and  the  systems  (interdisciplinary) 
approach  to  solving  problems.  TRW  mapped  Apollo's 
route  to  the  moon. 

Sponsor 

See:  Eduardo  Paolozzi 


TRW 


Twentieth  Century-Fox  Film  Corporation  is  one  of  the 
largest  Hollywood  film  studios. 

Contributing  Sponsor 


Universal  City  Studios,  Inc. 


Universal  Television  Company 


380 


Universal  City  Studios,  Inc.,  owned  by  MCA,  Inc.,  is  one 
of  the  most  efficient  movie  and  TV  studios  in  the  indus- 
try, and  surrounds  itself  with  its  own  city  of  apartment 
buildings,  shopping  center  and  hotel.  Television  series 
and  motion  pictures  make  up  two-thirds  of  MCA's  busi- 
ness; Universal  also  sells  records  and  tapes  under  UNI, 
Decca,  Brunswick  and  Kapp  labels,  and  operates  a  flour- 
ishing tour  business  through  its  movie-TV  studios.  A 
technology  subsidiary,  MCA  Technology,  Inc.,  makes 
high-speed  tape  duplicators  for  the  music  industry.  Uni- 
versal's  Optics  Department  has  been  refining  a  sixty  year 
old  rear-screen  projection  technique  which  puts  actors  in 
foreign  settings  without  moving  them  from  Universal 
City. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence;  Roy  Lichtenstein 


Universal  Television  Company,  founded  in  1948,  is  prin- 
cipally engaged  in  electronic  service  with  eleven  "Home 
and  Carry-in"  service  centers  located  in  Northern  and 
Southern  California.  The  firm  is  presently  considered  the 
largest  independent  service  company  in  America.  Masco 
Sales,  a  subsidiary  company,  operates  in  television  repair 
and  accessory  sales  department  in  thirty-five  West  Coast 
locations.  Dealers  Installation  Service,  another  division, 
maintains  a  private  warehouse  in  the  City  of  Commerce, 
specializing  in  customer  installation  of  major  appliances, 
televisions  and  stereos. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Boyd  Mefferd 


m 


A 


TELEVISION 


UNIVERSAL  CITY  STUDIOS,  INC. 


WED  Enterprises,  Inc. 


Wyle  Laboratories 


A&T 


WED  Enterprises,  Inc.,  is  the  Walt  Disney  Productions 
subsidiary  which  designs  and  fabricates  new  Disney 
projects,  such  as  Florida's  Walt  Disney  World,  an  enter- 
tainment complex  which  will  dwarf  Disneyland  in  size. 
Disneyland  is  the  parent  company's  best  performer.  Its 
Florida  offspring,  along  with  RCA,  will  integrate  a  com- 
puter system  into  its  operations  handling  credit,  reserva- 
tions, budgets  and  communications.  Software  companies 
have  tried  to  computerize  Disney's  animations  but 
haven't  yet  proved  it  feasible.  Disney  Productions  also 
operates  Mineral  King,  a  ski  resort  in  the  California 
Sierras. 

Patron  Sponsor 

Artist  in  residence:  Claes  Oldenburg 


Wyle  Laboratories'  principal  business  used  to  be  testing 
rockets  and  weapons  systems  in  simulated  environmental 
conditions;  with  many  recent  acquisitions  it  has 
branched  into  electronics  and  industrial  manufacturing. 
Less  than  ten  percent  of  its  sales  are  now  in  testing  and 
research.  Wyle  companies  make  tools  in  Cincinnati,  St. 
Louis  and  Toledo,  distribute  electronic  components  in 
Los  Angeles  and  run  one  of  the  biggest  trucking  com- 
panies in  the  Southeastern  U.S.  Wyle  still  does  aerospace 
testing,  but  also  is  designing  a  laboratory  test  facility  for 
high-speed  rapid  transit. 

Patron  Sponsor 

See:  Philip  King,  Eduardo  Paolozzi 


LLIE^ 


MftCU/UtMlH^ 


lAIYLE  LABORATORIES 


382 


The  following  corporations  were  invited  to  join  A  &  T 
but  declined: 

Aerojet-General  Corporation 

Aerol  Company,  Inc. 

Alcoa 

Allied  Chemical  Corporation 

American  Bulk  Carriers,  Inc. 

American  Construction  &  Pipe  Company 

American  Cyanamid  Company 

American  Smelting  &  Refining  Company 

American  Standard,  Inc. 

Ameritone  Paint  Corporation 

Anchor  Hocking  Corporation 

Apex  Smelting  Company 

Argo  Plastic  Company 

Armstrong  Cork  Company 

Atlantic-Richfield  Company 

Avery  Products 

Avis  Renta-Car  System 

Beckman  Instruments,  Inc. 

Bendix  Corporation 

Beneficial  Standard  Life  Insurance  Corporation 

Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation 

C.W.  Bundren  Truck  Company 

California  Computer  Products,  Inc. 

California  Federal  Savings  and  Loan  Association 

California  Savings  and  Loan 

Carnation  Company 

A.  M.  Castle  Company 

Century  Plastics,  Inc. 

Chase  Brass  &  Copper  Company,  Inc. 

Coca-Cola  Bottling  Company  of  Los  Angeles 

Columbia  Broadcasting  System 

Columbia  Pictures  Corporation 

Computer  Creations 

Crocker  Citizens  National  Bank 

Crown  Zellerbach  Corporation 

Crucible  Steel  Corporation 

Dillingham  Corporation 

Dow  Chemical  Company 

Ducommun  Metals  &  Supply  Company 

Dumont 

E.  I.  Du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  Inc. 

Eastman  Kodak  Company 

Economatics,  Inc. 

E  G&G,  Inc. 

Electro-Optical  Systems,  Inc. 

Max  Factor  &  Company 

Federal  Steel  Corporation 

Fellows  &  Stuart 

Feuer  Corporation 

Fibreboard  Corporation 

Firestone  Tire  &  Rubber  Company 

First  Western  Bank  and  Trust  Company 

Flex -Coat  Corporation 

Flinkote  Company 

Flying  Tiger  Line,  Inc. 


Foremost-McKesson,  Inc. 

Formica  Corporation 

Fry  Plastics  International 

Fuller  Paint  Company 

General  Dynamics  Corporation 

General  Tire  &  Rubber  Company 

Georgia-Pacific  Corporation 

Getty  Oil  Company 

Gibraltar  Savings 

Gilfillan,  Inc. 

Gladding  McBean 

Glass  Containers  Corporation 

Glendale  Federal  Savings  and  Loan  Association 

B.  F.  Goodrich  Company 

Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Company 

Gulf  General  Atomic,  Inc. 

Hancock  Oil  Company 

Harvey  Aluminum  Company 

Hertz  Corporation 

Hess-Goldsmith,  Inc. 

Hoffman  Electronics  Corporation 

Hollywood  Turf  Club 

Home  Savings  and  Loan  Association 

Honeywell,  Inc. 

Hughes  Aircraft  Company 

Hunt  Foods  and  Industries,  Inc. 

Industrial  Asphalt,  Inc. 

International  Paper  Company 

International  Pipe  &  Ceramics  Corporation 

International  Rectifier  Corporation 

International  Silver  Company 

International  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Corporation 

Interpace  Corporation 

Jones  &  Laughlin  Steel  Corporation 

Jorgensen  Steel  Company 

Joshua  Hendy  Corporation 

Kilsby  Tubesupply 

Korad  Corporation 

Lannan  Foundation 

Lippincott  Environmental  Arts,  Inc. 

McCrory  Corporation 

McDonnell  Douglas  Corporation 

M.S.L.  Industries 

Marshall  Industries 

Mattell,  Inc. 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 

Metropolitan  Water 

Mobil  Oil  Corporation 

Monsanto  Corporation 

Mosaic  Tile  Company 

National  Broadcasting  Company 

NASA 

National  Cash  Register  Company 

National  General  Corporation 

Northrop  Corporation 

Occidental  Petroleum  Corporation 

Old  Colony  Paint  &  Chemical  Company 


383  A&T 


Optical  Coating  Laboratories 

Owens  Corning 

PPG  Industries 

Pacific  Fiberglass  Corporation 

Pacific  IVIetals  Division  A.  M.  Castle  &  Company 

Pacific  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

Packard-Bell  Electronics 

Paramount  Pictures  Corporation 

Pacific  Lighting  Corporation 

Pendleton  Tool  Industries,  Inc. 

Pepsi-Cola  Company 

Phillips  Petroleum  Company 

Poly-Optics  Systems,  Inc. 

Pomona  Tile  Company 

Portland  Cement  Association 

Potlatch  Forests,  Inc. 

Producers'  Council.  Inc. 

Property  Research  Corporation 

Purex  Corporation,  Ltd. 

Raytheon  Company 

Reichhold  Chemicals,  Inc. 

Republic  Corporation 

Republic  Steel  Corporation 

Reynolds  Metals  Company 

Rohm  and  Haas  Company 

Royal  Industries 

Ryan  Aeronautical  Company 

Joseph  T.  Ryerson  and  Son,  Inc. 

Scientific  Data  Systems 

Shell  Oil  Company 

Signal  Oil  Company 

Silmar  Division  of  Vistron  Corporation 

Skidmore,  Owings  and  Merrill 

Southern  California  Edison  Company 

Standard  Pressed  Steel  Company 

Standard  Oil  Company  of  California 

State  Mutual  Savings  and  Loan 

Statham  Instruments,  Inc. 

Swedlow,  Inc. 

System  Development  Corporation 

Technicolor  Corporation 

3-M  Company  (Minnesota  Mining  and  Manufacturing  Company) 

Transamerica  Corporation 

Union  Bank 

Union  Carbide  Corporation 

Union  Oil  Company 

United  Artists  Corporation 

United  States  Gypsum  Company 

United  States  Plywood-Champion  Papers,  Inc. 

United  States  Steel  Corporation 

Uniroyal,  Inc. 

The  Upjohn  Company 

Warner  Brothers-Seven  Arts,  Inc. 

Webb  Textiles 

Wells  Fargo  Bank 

Westinghouse  Electric  Corporation 

Whittaker  Corporation 

Xerox  Corporation 


Los  Angeles  County  Board  of  Supervisors 


Frank  G.  Bonelli,  Chairman 
Burton  W.  Chace 
Ernest  E.  Debs 
Warren  M.  Dorn 
Kenneth  Hahn 
Arthur  G.Will 

Chief  Administrative  Officer 


Board  of  Trustees 


Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  Art 


A&T 


Mrs.  Howard  Ahmanson 
Mrs.  Aerol  Arnold 
R.  Stanton  Avery 
Michael  Blankfort 
William  Brice 
Edward  W.  Carter 
Justin  Dart 
Henry  Dreyfuss 
Charles  E.  Ducommun 
Dr.  Armand  Hammer 
George  R.  Hearst,  Jr. 
Felix  Juda 
Hoyt  B.  Leisure 
Mrs.  Rudolph  Liebig 
Charles  O.  Matcham 
Henry  T.  Mudd 
Edwin  W.  Pauley 
Mrs.  Christopher  B.  Russel 
Taft  B.  Schreiber 
William  T.  Sesnon,  Jr. 
Norton  Simon 
Maynard  J.  Toll 
John  Walker 
Hal  B.  Wallis 

Mrs.  Stuart  E.  Weaver,  Jr. 
Mrs.  Herman  Welner 
Dr.  Charles  Z.  Wilson,  Jr. 
Dr.  M.  Norvel  Young 


Sidney  F.  Brody,  Chairman 
Franklin  D.  Murphy,  President 
Richard  E.  Sherwood,  Vice  President 
Mrs.  Camilla  C.  Spear,  Vice  President 
Mrs.  Freeman  Gates,  Secretary 
Joseph  B.  Koepfli,  Treasurer 


Photograph  Credits  386 


Samuel  Aroni,  pp.  87,  90 
Aruba  Tourist  Bureau,  p.  308  (top) 
Rudolph  Burckhardt,  p.  306  (left) 
Leo  Castelli  Gallery,  p.  286 
Cinnamon  Productions,  pp.  196  (left),  198 
Ed  Cornachio,  pp.  55,  61 ,  64,  66,  79,  81 ,  1 09,  1 1 0,  1 1 1 ,  1 1 2. 
113,  119,  145,  150,  155  (bottom),  157  (top),  163,  171,  224, 
245,  246,  252,  253  (bottom),  255,  266,  277,  320,  321,  343, 
345,  357. 

Cowles  Communications,  pp.  331,  333,  334 

Barbara  Crutchfield,  p.  71 

William  Crutchfield,  pp.  204,  289,  291 ,  341  (right  top  and 
bottom),  344 

Cummins  Engine  Company,  pp.  99 

Design  News,  p.  257 

Hal  Glicksman,  p.  60 

Institute  for  Theater  Wissenshaft,  Cologne  University,  p.  309 

Sidney  Janis  Gallery,  pp.  104-105 

Kaiser  Steel  Corporation,  pp.  300,  301 ,  302,  304 

James  Kenion,  p.  317 

Tami  Komai,  pp.  1 21 ,  1 22,  1 24,  1 25,  1 72,  1 73,  1 74,  231 ,  232, 
233,  234-5,  263,  313,  314,  315,  319,  335,  336,  337,  348, 
350,351,352-3 

Knoedler  Gallery,  p.  306  (top) 

Malcolm  Lubliner,  pp.  102,  106,  120,  128,  129,  133,  135,  137, 
142,  150,  155  (top),  156  (right),  157,  158,  159,  186,  190, 
194,  196  (right),  201,  203,  206,  228,  229,  240,  243 
(bottom),  244,  247,  248,  249,  253  (top),  254,  256,  258,  259, 
260,  261,  262,  279,  281,  282,  299,  303,  309  (bottom),  310, 
31 8,  341  (left  top  and  bottom),  353,  354,  355,  356 

Marlborough,  pp.  149,  152,  154,  159  (left),  160,  161 

Eric  Miller,  pp.  153,  155  (middle,  left  and  right),  156  (left) 

Museum  of  Modern  Art,  New  York,  p.  57 

Hans  Namuth,  pp.  311,  312 

Eric  Pollitzer,  pp.  270,  271 

Nathan  Rabin,  p.  267 

Vincent  Bobbins,  pp.  123,  175 

Jay  Rowen,  p.  89 

Y.  Ernest  Satow,  p.  264 

Teledyne,  Inc.,  pp.  283,  284,  285,  287 

Frank  Thomas,  p.  195 

Maurice  Tuchman,  p.  238 


387  Credits:  A&T 


Catalog  Design:  Louis  Danziger 
Paste-up:  Robert  Riciiards 
Exiiibition  Graphics:  Vincent  Bobbins 
Printing:  Continental  Graphics 
Typesetting:  Garon  Graphic 


