ROMAN 
EDUCATION 


Oxford  University  Press 

London        Edinburgh        Glasgow        Copenhagen 

New  York     Toronto    Melbouriie     Cape  Town 

Bombay     Calcutta    Madras    Shanghai 

Humphrey  Milford  Publisher  to  the  University 


ROMAN 
EDUCATION 

FROM   CICERO  TO 
QUINTILIAN 


BY 
AUBREY   GWYNN 

S.J. 


OXFORD 
AT    THE     CLARENDON     PRESS 

1926 


LA 


Printed  in  Englar.d 

At  the  Oxford  Umvebsity  Press 

By  John  Johnson 

Printer  to  the  Un'versity 


PA TBI    MEO 
FILIVS 


3G05'Z 


PREFACE 

.  This  book  is,  though  indirectly,  the  result  of  work 
begun  ten  years  ago  for  the  degree  of  M.A.  in  the 
National  University  of  Ireland.  At  the  suggestion 
of  Rev.  Dr.  T.  Corcoran,  S.  J.,  Professor  of  Education 
at  University  College,  Dublin,  I  chose  as  a  subject  for 
research  work  the  history  of  Roman  education  under 
the  Empire  and  presented  a  thesis  on  that  subject 
in  the  autumn  of  1915.  Thanks  to  a  Travelling 
Studentship  awarded  me  by  the  National  University 
in  that  year,  I  was  able  to  continue  my  studies  for 
two  years  at  Oxford,  and  I  have  since  given  what 
time  I  could  spare  from  other  work — part  of  it  as 
student,  part  of  it  as  teacher — to  reading  whatever 
might  throw  light  on  the  general  history  of  Graeco- 
Roman  education.  In  the  summer  of  1919  I  was 
awarded  the  degree  of  B.Litt.  by  the  University  of 
Oxford  for  a  thesis  entitled  Ro7nan  Education  under 
the  Empire,  in  which  I  developed  the  ideas  already 
set  forth  in  my  earlier  thesis,  adding  a  considerable 
body  of  new  material.  Since  then  I  have  worked 
mainly  on  the  general  principles  which  underlie  all 
Greek  and  Roman  theories  of  education,  and  have 
thought  it  best  to  publish  separately  the  results  of 


8  PREFACE 

my  inquiry  into  this  more  theoretical  aspect  of  my 
subject,  reserving  for  a  later  volume  the  history  of 
the  Roman  schools  under  the  Empire. 

My  thanks  are  due  to  the  many  kind  friends  who 
have  helped  me  in  one  way  or  another ;  to  my 
professors  at  University  College,  Dublin,  without 
whose  help  and  encouragement  this  book  would 
never  have  been  written ;  to  Dr.  L.  C.  Purser  of 
Trinity  College,  Dublin,  who  gave  me  welcome  advice 
at  the  beginning  of  my  studies  ;  to  my  tutors  at 
Oxford,  especially  to  Mr.  J.  G.  C.  Anderson  of 
Christ  Church  ;  and  to  the  Delegates  of  the  Clarendon 
Press  for  undertaking  the  publication  of  this  book. 

A.  G. 
March  1925. 


NOTE 

A  list  of  the  modem  works  which  I  have  consulted  will  be 
found  at  the  end  of  this  volume.  For  convenience  of  reference 
I  have  quoted  works  included  in  this  Bibliography  by  the  name 
of  the  author  only,  with  the  addition  of  a  short  title  where  there 
is  more  than  one  work  by  the  same  author.  As  a  rule  I  have 
quoted  the  ancient  authorities  according  to  the  Teubner  editions  ; 
most  of  the  authors  whom  I  have  used  are  not  easily  accessible  in 
any  other  edition, 


TABLE   OF   CONTENTS 


Preface 


I.  Early  Roman  Traditions 
II.  Greek  and  Roman  Educational  Ideals 

III.  First  Greek  Teachers  at  Rome 

IV.  The  New  Graeco-Roman  Culture 

V.  Under  Marius  and  Sulla  . 

1.  Plotius  Gallus  and  the  Latiivi  rhefores 

2.  Cicero's  student -years 

VI.  The  de  Orator e        .... 

1.  Purpose  of  the  de  Orator e   . 

2.  The  artes  liherales 

3.  The  schools  of  literature  and  rhetoric 

4.  History,  law,  and  philosophy 

5.  Cicero's  theory  of  the  doctns  orator 

6.  Ciceronian  humanit^tfi 

VII.  Reaction  and  its  Causes 

1.  Decline  of  the  Roman  aristocracy 

2.  New  elements  in  Roman  society 

3.  Education  of  the  lower  classes    . 

VIII.  The  New  Rhetoric 

1.  Virgil  and  Horace  in  the  schools 

2.  The  new  schools  of  rhetoric 

3.  Rhetoric  and  philosophy    . 


PAGE 

7 

11 

22 

34 

40 

59 
59 
69 

79 

79 

82 

92 

100 

112 

118 

123 
123 
134 
145 

163 
153 
158 
173 


10 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


IX.  Quintilian         .... 

1.  The  InstiiuUo  m-aloria 

2.  Preliminary  studies   . 

3.  Rhetoric  :  the  Declamationes 

4.  Supplementary  studies 

5.  Vir  bonus  dicendi  peritus    . 

X.  Conclusion       .... 

Bibliography  ..... 
Index    ...... 


PAGE 

180 
180 
189 
200 
218 
230 

242 

253 
257 


EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS 
'  Moribus  antiquis  res  stat  Roinana  virisque.'     Ennius. 

Cicero  has  devoted  the  fourth  book  of  his  de  Re 
puhlica  to  an  elaborate  contrast  between  Greek  and 
Roman  poHtical  ideals.  Most  of  the  book  is  now 
lost,  but  what  remains  is  of  capital  importance. 
After  a  brief  enumeration  of  some  characteristic 
Roman  institutions,  Scipio,  who  is  Cicero's  mouth- 
piece in  the  dialogue,  begins  his  praise  of  the  Roman 
state. 

'  Let  us  now  turn  our  attention  to  other  wise  provisions  made 
with  a  view  to  maintaining  the  prosperity  and  vii'tue  of  the 
commonwealth.  For  that  is  the  primary  purpose  of  all  civil 
society  towards  which  the  state  should  help  men,  partly  by  its 
institutions,  partly  by  its  laws.  Now  fu'st  as  to  the  education  of 
free-bom  citizens.  This  is  a  problem  on  which  the  Greeks  have 
wasted  much  endeavour  :  but  our  institutions  are  opposed  to  any 
detailed  universal  system  of  public  education,  obligatory  by  law. 
In  fact  my  guest,  Polybius,  maintains  that  this  is  the  one  point 
on  which  our  institutions  can  be  accused  of  negligence.'  ^ 

Here  the  fragment  breaks  off,  and  the  passage  in 
Polybius  to  which  Cicero  refers — most  probably 
a  portion  of  the  Greek  historian's  account  of  Roman 
institutions  in  his  sixth  book — is  no  longer  extant. 
But  the  allusion  thus  made  to  a  judgement  passed  by 

1  Cic.  de  Eep.  iv.  3. 


12  EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS 

the  most  competent  Greek  critic  of  Roman  history, 
and  the  fact  that  Cicero,  the  most  competent  Roman 
interpreter  of  Greek  civilization,  expressly  rejects 
that  judgement,  indica^te  a  suggestive  line  of  inquiry. 
Why  should  Polybius  have  singled  out  this  neglect 
of  ]3ublic  education  as  the  one  fault  in  Roman  institu- 
tions ?  And  why  should  Cicero  have  been  at  pains 
(for  Scipio  was  evidently  made  to  answer  the  criticism 
which  he  quotes)  not  merely  to  refute  the  Greek 
liistorian's  opinion,  but  even  to  select  Roman 
methods  of  education  as  the  starting-point  for  his 
eulogy  of  Roman  institutions  ?  Were  both  men 
aware  of  an  essential  difference  between  Greek  and 
Roman  educational  ideals  ? 

Little  is  known  of  early  Roman  education,  but  one 
fact  is  certain.  As  in  every  other  department  of 
Roman  social  life,  the  centre  round  which  all  turned 
was  the  family  ;  and  in  particular  that  most  Roman 
institution,  the  patria  potestas.  '  The  right  of 
dominion ',  says  Gains,  '  which  we  have  over  our 
children  is  peculiar  to  the  citizens  of  Rome,  nor  is 
there  any  race  of  men  who  have  a  dominion  over 
their  children  similar  to  ours.'  ^  Roman  law  allowed 
the  father  a  dominion  over  his  children  hardly  Ifess 
absolute  than  the  dominion  exercised  over  slaves. 
When  the  child  was  born  the  father  was  free  to 
accept  him  as  a  member  of  the  familia  or  to  reject 
him  as  unfit ;  in  poorer  circles,  at  least,  the  practice 
of  exposing  infants  was  common  and  the  foundling 
that  survived  could  be  picked  up  by  the  first-comer, 
^  Gains,  i.  55  ;  Inst.  i.  9,  2  ;  Digest,  i.  6,  3. 


EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS  13 

retained  as  his  slave  or  sold  to  the  highest  bidder. 
Nor  was  this  the  only  possibility  of  slavery  for  the 
Roman  child.  In  theory,  at  least,  a  Roman  father 
could  sell  an  unmarried  child  into  slavery  at  will, 
as  he  could  also  punish  him  by  condemning  him  to 
work  on  his  fields  among  the  farm-hands. 

How  far  these  rights  were  put  into  practice  is 
disputed  ;  ^  their  legality  is  certain.  And  a  Roman 
father  had  the  supreme  right  of  condemning  his  son 
to  death,  subject  only  to  the  moral  obligation  of 
holding  a  family  council  before  passing  this  final 
sentence.  More  practical  were  the  laws  which 
governed  the  holding  of  property.  Here  again  the 
patriarchal  system  was  in  full  force.  The  son  had 
no  personal  property  as  distinct  from  his  father,  and 
whatever  goods  he  acquired  during  his  father's  life- 
time were  legally  the  property  of  the  paterfamilias  : 
money  allowed  him  for  his  personal  use  could  be 
revoked  by  the  father  at  will.  The  one  legal  differ- 
ence between  the  son  and  the  slave  was  the  right  to 
inherit.  When  the  father  died,  the  son,  hitherto 
regarded  in  law  as  co-proprietor,  but  without  use,  of 
his  father's  property,  entered  upon  rights  which  had 
beAi  in  abeyance  during  his  father's  lifetime.  Finally, 
apart  from  a  privilege  granted  to  the  holders  of 
certain  priestly  offices,  this  patria  potestas  was 
extinguished  only  by  death  :  neither  marriage  nor 
high  office  in  the  state  made  the  son  independent  of 
his  father  within  the  sphere  of  private  life.    Adoption 

^  Bliimner,  p.  302 ;  Beauchet  in  Daremberg-Saglio,  iv, 
pp.  344  foU. 


14  EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS 

was  merely  the  transference  of  patria  potestas  from 
one  parent  to  the  other. 

As  might  be  expected  in  a  society  which  held 
paternal  authority  in  such  honour,  a  Roman  boy's 
education  consisted  almost  entkely  in  daily  familiar 
intercourse  with  his  parents  and  in  the  close  imitation 
of  his  father's  conduct.  Tacitus  has  left  a  jjicture 
of  this  traditional  home-education  which,  though 
idealized  by  the  historian's  imagination,  is  no  doubt 
true  to  its  essential  spirit. 

'  Of  old  our  cliildren  were  born  of  chaste  parents  and  were 
reared,  not  in  the  chamber  of  some  hii'ed  nm-se,  but  in  the  lap 
or  at  the  breast  of  their  mother,  whose  chief  glory  was  thus  to 
stay  at  home  and  be  the  servant  of  her  children.  Choice  was 
made  of  some  matron  from  among  the  family's  relatives,  to  whom 
were  entrusted  all  the  cliildren  of  the  same  household.  Of  well- 
proved  virtue,  her  influence  was  such  that  none  dared  utter 
before  her  an  unseemly  word  or  venture  on  an  unbecoming 
action.  Her  presence,  commanding  awe  and  reverence,  was 
there  to  check  the  children  not  merely  at  their  lessons  and  serious 
duties,  but  even  during  their  games  and  recreations.  Thus, 
tradition  tells  us,  did  Cornelia  train  the  Gracchi  ;  Aurelia, 
Julius  Caesar  ;  Atia,  Augustus  for  future  empire.  And  the  aim 
of  all  this  stern  formation  was  that  whilst  the  child's  character 
was  still  fresh  and  open  and  unspoiled  by  wrong,  he  should  be 
taught  to  embrace  the  practice  of  virtue  with  all  liis  heart ; 
and  that  whether  destined  to  be  soldier,  jurist  or  orator,  his 
whole  energies  should  be  solely  devoted  to  duty.'  ^ 

Once  the  first  years  of  childhood  were  past,  the 
mother's  place  in  the  boy's  education  was  taken  by 
her  husband,  and  a  companionship  began  between 
father  and  son  for  which  it  is  hard  to  find  a  parallel 
outside  Roman  society.  School-life  was  reduced  to 
^  Tac.  Dial.  28  ;  see  also  Pliny,  Epp.  vii,  24. 


EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS  15 

a  minimum,  where  it  existed  at  all.  Frequently  the 
father  took  over  in  person  the  responsibility  of 
giving  his  son  whatever  little  book-learning  was 
required  for  ordinary  Roman  life.  '  Every  child  had 
his  father  for  schoolmaster  ',  says  Pliny  of  these  early 
times  ;  ^  and  the  practice  is  expressly  affirmed  by 
Plutarch  of  the  elder  Cato  and  Aemilius  Paulus.^ 
But  these  elementary  lessons  were  the  least  part  of 
the  boy's  education.  Constantly  at  his  father's  side 
and  with  few  other  companions,  he  learnt  to  see  in 
his  parent  the  living  representative  of  Roman 
tradition,  the  personification  of  Roman  authority. 
At  home  he  worked  with  his  father  on  the  farm,  like 
the  Sabine  '  soldier-peasants  '  of  Horace's  ode  ;  ^  or 
like  the  elder  Cato  who  '  spent  all  his  youth  in  habits 
of  frugality  and  hardship  and  industry,  tilling  the 
fields,  ploughing  up  Sabine  rocks  and  stones,  or 
sowing  the  land  for  harvest  '.*  On  festival  days  he 
acted  as  acolyte  to  his  father  in  all  the  religious 
ceremonies  which  centred  round  the  Roman  hearth  ; 
or  accompanied  him  as  guest  at  the  house  of  friends, 
serving  his  elders  at  table  and  singing  with  others 
of  his  own  age  the  ballads  of  early  Roman  literature.^ 
When  there  was  a  meeting  of  the  assembly  in  the 
forum,  he  was  there  to  listen  to  the  public  debates  ; 
and,  if  his  father  was  a  senator,  he  was  allowed  by 
special  privilege — at  least  in  the  early  days  of  the 

1  Pliny,  Epp.  \aii.  14,  6.         ^  pj^^,  Q^f^  maior,  20  ;  Aeynil.  6. 
3  Hor.  Carm.  iii.  6,  37  foil.  *  Cato  apud  Fest.  281  a,  21. 

^  Plut.  Qu.  Rom.  33;    Varro  apud  Non.  77,  3  (=i,  p.  107, 
Lindsay), 


16  EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS 

Republic — to  go  with  him  to  the  senate-house, 
'  sitting  near  the  door,  and  learning  both  from  what 
he  heard  and  what  he  saw  '.^ 

According  to  primitive  Roman  custom  this  strictly 
parental  training  was  continued  until  the  boy  was 
sixteen  or  seventeen  years  old.^  It  was  ended  only 
by  the  formal  assumption  of  the  toga  virilis,  when 
the  boy,  now  recognized  as  a  Roman  citizen,  entered 
upon  his  first  experiences  of  active  military  service. 
Later  a  custom  was  introduced  which  served  as  a 
prolongation  of  this  parental  training.  Once  the 
home-education  was  judged  to  have  been  sufficient, 
the  boy  laid  aside  his  iwaetexta  for  the  toga  virilis, 
often  when  he  was  only  thirteen  or  fourteen  years  old. 
He  was  then  taken  by  his  father  to  some  distinguished 
citizen  and  bidden  learn  from  him  the  lessons  of 
political  oratory  and  statecraft  which  the  home-cu'cle 
was  too  limited  to  give.^  As  Cicero  puts  it,  speaking 
of  his  own  experience,  '  I  was  taken  by  my  father  to 
Scaevola,  and  bidden  as  far  as  possible  never  leave 
his  side  \'^  This  sort  of  apprenticeship  to  public  life — 
tirocinium  fori,  as  it  was  called  bj^  the  Romans  them- 
selves— lasted  for  a  year,  and  was  regarded  as  a 
transitional  stage  between  the  strict  discipline  of  the 
home-circle  and  the  freedom  of  j^ublic  life  as  a  Roman 
citizen.''  Tliose  who  intended  to  devote  themselves 
to  a  military  career  passed  through  a  similar  appren- 

1  Pliny,  Epjy.  viii.  14,  4  ;  Gell.  i.  23,  4. 

2  Marquardt,  i,  pp.  123-34. 

3  Tac.  Dial.  34  ;  Warde  Fowler,  Social  Life,  pp.  191  foil. 

^  Cic.  de  Am.  1  ;  see  below,  p.  64.  ^  Cic.  pro  Cael.  11. 


EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS  17 

ticeship  to  active  service  {tirocinium  militiae),  under 
the  care  of  some  experienced  officer ;  ^  for  these 
customs  belong  to  a  period  when  military  service  was 
no  longer  compulsory.  And  even  when  this  year 
of  apprenticeship  was  over,  and  the  young  citizen  or 
officer  had  begun  to  play  his  part  in  the  service  of  the 
state,  his  private  life  was  still  subject  to  parental 
authority.  For  the  Roman  imtria  potestas  ended  only 
with  the  parent's  death,  and  citizens  of  the  highest 
standing  owed  their  parents  an  obedience  which 
disconcerts  our  modern  opinions,  as  of  old  it  dis- 
concerted Greek  critics  of  Roman  institutions. ^ 
Morihus  antiquis  res  stat  Bomana  virisque :  the 
extent  of  a  Roman  parent's  influence  on  the  edu- 
cation of  his  children  gives  fuller  meaning  to 
this  reverence  for  the  living  traditions  of  Roman 
greatness. 

Early  Roman  education  was  thus  little  concerned 
with  the  development  of  intellectual  attainments. 
Its  main  object  was  to  form  that  spirit  of  self- 
restraint  and  filial  submission  which  Roman  feeling 
demanded  of  the  young ;  ^  its  chief  merit  was  that 
it  fostered  a  reverence  for  childhood  which  made 
every  boy  and  girl  an  object  of  almost  religious 
veneration.*  But  it  would  be  a  mistake  to  remain 
blind  to  the  faults  of  the  system.  Judged  by  intellec- 
tual standards,   Roman  education  was  essentially 

^  Cic.  apud  Serv.  in  Aen.  v.  546  ;  Marquardt,  i,  p.  133. 

2  Dion.  Hal.  Ant.  Rom.  ii.  26,  2  ;  27,  1. 

3  Cic.  de  Off.  ii.  46. 

*  See  Warde  Fowler's  article  in  Boman  Essays,  pp.  42  foil. 


18  EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS 

utilitarian.  Cicero  notes  a  characteristic  example. 
Greek  thinkers  had  always  taken  a  keen  interest  in 
theoretical  geometry ;  but  the  Romans  never 
troubled  to  learn  more  of  the  science  than  was 
necessary  for  the  practical  work  of  land-measure- 
ment.i  And  Horace's  satire  on  the  utilitarian  aim 
of  Roman  mathematics  is  too  familiar  to  need 
quotation.^  The  same  spirit  of  conservative  utiU- 
tarianism  is  manifest  in  the  whole  character  of  early 
Roman  education  :  it  influenced  the  training  of  both 
body  and  mind.  Athletics,  if  we  take  the  word  in 
the  sense  of  all  healthy  physical  exercise,  played 
a  large  part  in  the  daily  life  of  a  Roman  boy.  Run- 
ning, riding,  boxing,  wrestling,  swimming,  hunting, 
the  use  of  arms  and  hard  work  in  the  fields  :  ^  all 
these  formed  part  of  his  regular  education,  and 
Roman  conservatives  like  Virgil  and  Horace  were 
staunch  upholders  of  the  national  tradition.*  Varro, 
who  believed  in  letting  boys  rough  it  when  they  were 
young,^  has  left  an  interesting  description  of  his  own 
boyhood.  He  had  only  one  tunic  and  toga,  wore 
sandals  without  any  covering  for  his  legs,  rode  his 
horse  bare-backed,  was  seldom  allowed  a  bath,  and 
even  less  frequently  a  good  dinner.*'  But  the 
scientific  training  of  an  ideal  harmony  of  mind  and 
body  as  practised  by  the  Greeks  was  unknown  to 

1  Cic.  Tusc.  i.  5.  2  Hqj,  ^^g  p^^i  325  foil. 

3  Plut.  Cato  maior,  20  ;  Bliimner,  p.  329. 

*  Virg.  Aen.  vii.  160  foil.  ;  ix.  603  foil.  ;  Hor.  Carm.  i.  8 ; 
iii.  6 ;  24. 

5  Varro  apud  Non.  520,  24  (  =iii,  p.  837,  Lindsay)  ;  Gell.  iv.  19. 

^  Varro  apud  Non.  108,  24  ( =i,  p.  155,  Lindsay). 


EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS  19 

Roman  tradition,  and  Roman  society  never  fully 
accepted  the  Greek  athletic  ideal.  Even  the  younger 
Scipio,  the  greatest  phil-Hellene  of  his  day,  found 
much  that  was  harmful  and  absurd  in  the  traditions 
of  the  Greek  gymnasia  ;  ^  and  Cato  was  open  in  his 
hostility.-  Plutarch  gives  some  curious  details  as  to 
the  latter' s  theory  of  education  in  the  twentieth 
chapter  of  his  Life  of  Cato.  But  the  whole  chapter 
is  so  admirable  in  itself,  and  so  entirely  characteristic 
of  Roman  educational  ideals,  that  it  deserves  to  be 
quoted  in  full. 

'  Cato  was  a  good  father  and  an  honourable  husband.  In  the 
management  of  his  household  he  showed  unusual  ability,  and  was 
far  from  treating  such  questions  as  of  little  or  secondary  impor- 
tance ;  so  that  I  think  it  worth  while  to  give  some  details  as  to 
his  success  in  these  matters.  He  married  a  wife  of  good  family 
rather  than  of  great  fortune,  judging  that,  whilst  both  good 
birth  and  wealth  make  for  pride  and  seriousness,  women  of  noble 
family,  owing  to  their  dread  of  shame,  are  more  obedient  to  their 
husbands  in  all  questions  of  good  conduct.  He  used  to  say  that 
a  man  who  struck  his  wife  or  his  child  was  laying  hands  on  the 
most  holy  of  sacred  things  ;  that  it  was  a  greater  honour  to  be 
a  good  husband  than  a  distinguished  senator  ;  and  that  nothing 
was  more  admirable  in  old  Socrates  than  that  he  lived  in  peace 
and  quiet  ^^1th  a  difficult  wife  and  half-witted  children.  When 
his  son  was  born,  no  duty  (save  perhaps  some  public  function) 
was  so  pressing  as  to  prevent  him  from  being  present  when  his 
wife  bathed  the  child  and  wrapped  it  in  its  swaddling-clothes. 
His  wife  suckled  the  child  with  her  own  milk,  and  would  often 
give  her  breast  to  the  children  of  her  slaves,  so  as  to  gain  their 
affection  for  her  son  by  treating  them  as  his  brothers.  As  soon 
as  the  boy  was  able  to  learn,  Cato  took  him  personally  in  charge 
and  taught  him  his  letters,  although  he  OAvned  an  accomplished 
slave,  named  Chilon,  who  was  a  schoolmaster  and  gave  lessons 

1  CHc.  de  Rep.  iv.  4 ;  Tusc.  iv.  70.  ^  pi^^.  Cato  maior,  3. 


20  EARLY  ROMAN  TRADITIONS 

to  many  boys.  But  Cato,  to  use  his  own  words,  would  not  have 
a  slave  abuse  his  son  nor  perhaps  pull  his  ears  for  being  slow  at 
his  lessons  ;  nor  would  he  have  his  boy  owe  a  slave  so  precious 
a  gift  as  learning.  So  he  made  himself  the  boy's  schoolmaster, 
just  as  he  taught  him  the  laws  of  Rome  and  bodily  exercises  ;  not 
merely  to  throw  the  javelin,  to  fight  in  armour  or  to  ride,  but 
also  to  use  his  fists  in  boxing,  to  bear  heat  and  cold,  and  to  swim 
against  the  currents  and  eddies  of  a  river.  And  he  tells  us  himself 
that  he  wrote  books  of  history  with  his  own  hand  and  in  large 
characters,  so  that  his  son  might  be  able  even  at  home  to  become 
acquainted  with  his  country's  past ;  that  he  was  as  careful  to 
avoid  all  indecent  conversation  in  his  son's  presence  as  he  would 
have  been  in  presence  of  the  Vestal  virgins  ;  and  that  he  never 
bathed  with  him.  This  last  point  seems  to  have  been  a  Roman 
custom,  for  even  fathers-in-law  were  careful  not  to  bathe  with 
their  sons-in-law  to  avoid  the  necessity  of  stripping  naked  before 
them  ;  but  later,  when  the  Romans  had  learnt  from  the  Greeks 
the  custom  of  aj^peaiing  naked,  they  actually  taught  the  Greeks 
to  do  so  before  women.  When  Cato  had  thus  taken  every  pains 
to  fashion  liis  son,  like  an  excellent  work,  to  virtue,  finding  that 
his  good  will  was  beyond  reproach  and  that  he  was  naturally 
docile  and  obedient,  but  that  his  body  was  too  delicate  for 
hardship,  he  relaxed  the  excessive  rigour  and  austerity  of  this 
regime.  And  in  spite  of  weak  health  the  lad  proved  himself 
a  true  man  in  the  field,  wimiing  great  distinction  in  the  battle 
which  Aemilius  Paulus  fought  against  Perseus.  It  was  here 
that  he  lost  his  sword,  which  was  struck  from  his  grasp  by  a  blow 
or  simply  slipped  owing  to  the  moisture  of  his  hand.  Grieved 
at  this  loss  the  boy  turned  to  some  of  his  comrades  who  were 
about  him,  took  them  with  liim,  and  again  charged  the  enemy. 
Much  hard  fighting  was  needed  to  clear  the  spot,  but  at  last  he 
found  his  sword  amid  a  heap  of  arms  and  dead  bodies,  friend  and 
foe  piled  up  together.  His  general  Paulus  was  delighted  with 
the  boy  when  he  heard  of  the  deed,  and  Cato  himself  wrote  his 
son  a  letter  which  is  still  extant,  giving  him  high  praise  for  the 
honourable  zeal  he  had  shown  in  thus  winning  back  his  sword. 
Later  the  young  man  married  Tertia,  the  daughter  of  Paulus  and 
Scipio's  sister,  and  his  admission  to  this  noble  family  was  due 
as  much  to  his  own  merits  as  to  the  merits  of  his  father.  So  that 
Cato's  care  for  his  son  had  its  fittmg  reward.' 


EARLY  ROjMAN  TRADITIONS  21 

Comment  on  such  a  passage  is  unnecessary.  How- 
ever rigid  its  ethical  standard,  however  narrow  its 
intellectual  horizon,  the  austere  morality  which  Cato 
here  personifies  compels  admiration.  Ennius  was 
right :  these  traditions  and  these  men  were  the 
guarantee  of  Roman  greatness. 


II 

GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS 

'  Considerate  nunc  .  .  .  disciplinara  puerilem  ingenuis  ;  in  qua 
Graeci  multum  frustra  laboraverunt.'     Cic.  de  Rep.  iv.  3. 

Plutarch  was  not  the  first  Greek  to  feel  the 
impressive  grandeur  of  Roman  educational  ideals. 
Polybius — in  spite  of  the  criticism  which  Cicero 
quotes — renders  generous  homage  to  the  ethical 
value  of  Roman  family  traditions.  National  custom 
required  that  at  the  funeral  of  a  Roman  citizen  life- 
size  statues  of  former  members  of  the  family  should 
be  carried  in  solemn  procession  through  the  forum, 
adorned  with  all  the  insignia  of  their  rank.  After  the 
procession  a  panegjnic  was  pronounced  on  the  dead 
man's  virtues  and  achievements,  and  the  glories  of 
his  ancestors.  Polybius,  who  describes  the  scene  at 
one  of  these  public  ceremonies,  interrupts  his 
narrative  to  note  the  effect  of  all  this  pageantry  on 
an  impressionable  boy. 

'  It  would  not  be  easy ',  he  says,  '  to  offer  a  fairer  spectacle  to 
an  ambitious  and  generous  boy.  For  who  would  not  be  moved 
to  see  the  statues  of  men  famous  for  their  valour  grouped  together 
as  though  they  were  alive  ?  What  fairer  spectacle  could  there 
be  than  this  ?  And,  best  of  all,  the  young  are  thus  stimulated 
to  bear  all  manner  of  hardship  for  the  common  weal,  hoping 
thereby  to  gain  the  glory  which  is  given  to  brave  men.'  ^ 

Roman  tradition — the  mos  maiorum,  so  prominent 

in  Latin  literature — has  seldom  been  more  justly 

praised. 

1  Polyb.  vi.  63,  9-54,  3  (ed.  Buttner-Wobst). 


GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS      23 

Why  then  did  Polybius  find  fault  with  Roman 
methods  of  education  ?  His  complaint  that  Romans 
neglected  the  problem  of  public  education  recalls  an 
observation  made  by  Aristotle  two  centuries  earlier  : 

'  It  is  only  in  the  Spartan  community,  with  a  few  other  excep- 
tions, that  the  lawgiver  has  paid  attention  to  the  problem  of 
education.  In  most  states  such  questions  are  ignored  :  every  one 
lives  the  lord  of  his  wife  and  children,  like  the  Cyclops  of  old.'  ^ 

Possibly  Aristotle  would  have  been  too  shrewd  an 
observer  of  moral  forces  to  include  Roman  traditions 
in  a  criticism  aimed  directly  at  the  customs  of  fourth- 
century  Greece  ;  but  Polybius  was  less  wary.  Greek 
political  theory  of  the  second  century  B.C.  demanded 
that  education  should  be  controlled  by  public  laws, 
and  Polybius,  though  personal  experience  should 
have  taught  him  better,  missed  the  application  of 
a  theory  in  which  he  had  been  taught  to  believe. 
Roman  statesmen  sought  a  solution  of  these  pro- 
blems according  to  the  genius  of  their  race.  Where 
Greek  theorists  put  their  faith  in  systematic  law- 
making, the  Romans  obtained  more  permanent 
results  by  the  slow  development  of  custom  :  as 
Polybius  puts  it,  '  they  learnt  from  experience, 
choosing  always  the  best',  and  thereby  built  up 
institutions  which  Polybius  himself  prefers  to  the 
institutions  of  any  other  state,  because  of  their  more 
perfect  conformity  with  nature.^  And  the  success 
achieved  by  this  practical  wisdom  in  general  was 
notable  in  the  sphere  of  education.     The  Roman 

1  Ar.  Eth.  Nic.  X.  1180  a,  25  ;  Pol.  viii.  1337  a,  30. 

2  Polyb.,  vi.  10,  14  ;  4,  13  ;  9,  12  (ed.  Biittner-Wobst). 


24      GREKK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS 

father  was  free  to  educate  his  children  as  he  pleased. 
'  Like  the  Cyclops  of  old  ',  he  was  their  lord,  and  the 
state  made  no  attempt  to  restrict  his  freedom.  But 
each  family  had  its  own  tradition  of  family  pride, 
its  own  record  of  public  service  ;  and  the  atmosphere 
of  conservative  custom  thus  created  was  for  centuries 
a  sufficient  guarantee  against  novel  experiments. 
Towards  the  end  of  the  second  century  B.C.,  when 
individualist  tendencies  were  making  themselves  felt, 
conservative  statesmen  appealed  to  the  value  of  these 
traditions.  Suetonius  has  preserved  the  text  of  an 
edict  issued  by  the  censors  of  92  B.C.,  in  opposition 
to  the  new  tendencies.^  One  of  its  sentences  runs  as 
follovv^s  :  '  Our  ancestors  were  careful  to  determine 
what  lessons  their  children  were  to  learn,  what 
schools  they  were  to  attend.'  No  one  familiar  with 
the  spirit  of  early  Roman  education  can  doubt  the 
truth  of  this  statement.  Yet  no  laws  were  in  exist- 
ence, prescribing  this  or  that  form  of  education,  and 
Cicero's  statement  holds  true  :  '  Our  institutions  are 
opposed  to  any  detailed  universal  system  of  public 
education,  obligatory  by  law.'  ^ 

By  way  of  contrast  with  these  early  Roman  tradi- 
tions it  may  be  helpful  to  quote  in  full  a  well-known 
passage  of  Plato's  Protagoras,  which  expresses  more 
clearly  than  any  other  passage  in  Greek  literature 
certain  fundamental  ideas  common  to  all  Greek 
theories  of  education. 

*  Education  and  admonition  ',  says  Protagoras,  '  commence  in 
the  first  years  of  childhood,  and  last  to  the  very  end  of  life. 

^  Suet.  Rhet.  \.  2  cic.  de  Rep.  iv.  3. 


GREEK  AND  RO:\rAN  EDUCL4TI0NAL  IDEALS      25 

Mother  antl  nurse  and  father  and  tutor  are  quarreUing  about  the 
improvement  of  the  child  as  soon  as  ever  he  is  able  to  understand 
them  ;  he  cannot  say  or  do  anything  without  their  setting  forth 
to  him  that  this  is  just  and  that  is  unjust  ;  this  is  honourable  and 
that  is  dishonourable  ;  this  is  holy,  that  is  unholy  ;  do  this  and 
abstain  from  that.  And  if  he  obeys,  well  and  good  ;  if  not,  he 
is  straightened  by  threats  and  blows,  like  a  piece  of  warped  wood. 
At  a  later  stage  they  send  him  to  teachers,  and  enjoin  them  to  see 
to  his  manners  even  more  than  to  his  reading  and  music  ;  and 
the  teachers  do  as  they  are  desired.  And  when  the  boy  has 
learned  his  letters  and  is  beginning  to  understand  what  is  written, 
as  before  he  understood  onlj^  what  was  spoken,  they  put  into 
his  hands  the  works  of  great  poets  which  he  reads  at  school  ; 
in  these  are  contained  many  admonitions  and  many  tales,  and 
praises,  and  encomia  of  ancient  famous  men  which  he  is  required 
to  learn  by  heart,  in  order  that  he  ma}^  imitate  or  emulate  them 
and  desire  to  become  like  them.  Then,  again,  the  teachers  of 
the  lyre  take  similar  care  that  their  young  disciple  is  temperate 
and  gets  into  no  mischief  ;  and  when  they  have  taught  him  the 
use  of  the  l}rre,  they  introduce  him  to  the  poems  of  other  excellent 
poets,  who  are  the  Ijo-ic  poets  ;  and  these  they  set  to  music,  and 
make  their  harmonies  and  rhythms  quite  familiar  to  the  children's 
souls,  in  order  that  they  may  learn  to  be  more  gentle,  and 
harmonious,  and  rhythmical,  and  so  more  fitted  for  speech  and 
action  ;  for  the  life  of  man  in  every  part  has  need  of  harmony 
and  rhj'thm.  Then  ihey  send  them  to  the  master  of  gymnastic, 
in  order  that  their  bodies  may  better  minister  to  the  virtuous 
mind,  and  that  they  may  not  be  compelled  through  bodily 
weakness  to  play  the  coward  in  war  or  on  any  other  occasion. 
This  is  what  is  done  by  those  who  have  the  means,  and  those 
v/ho  have  the  means  are  the  rich  ;  their  children  begin  education 
soonest  and  leave  off  latest.  When  they  have  done  with  masters, 
the  state  again  compels  them  to  learn  the  laws  and  live  after  the 
pattern  which  they  furnish,  and  not  after  their  own  fancies  ; 
and  just  as  in  learning  to  write,  the  writing-master  first  draws 
lines  with  a  style  for  the  use  of  the  j'oung  beginner,  and  gives 
him  the  tablet  and  makes  him  follow  the  lines,  so  the  city  draws 
the  laws,  which  were  the  invention  of  good  lawgivers  who  were 
of  old  time  ;  these  are  given  to  the  young  man  in  order  to  guide 


26      GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUOATIONAL  IDEALS 

him  in  his  conduct,  wliether  as  ruler  or  ruled  ;  and  he  who 
transgresses  them  is  to  be  corrected  or,  in  other  words,  called  to 
account,  which  is  a  term  used  not  only  in  your  country,  but  also 
in  many  others.  Now  when  there  is  all  this  care  about  virtue 
private  and  public,  why,  Socrates,  do  you  still  wonder  and  doubt 
whether  virtue  can  be  taught  ?  Cease  to  wonder,  for  the  opposite 
would  be  far  more  surprising.'  ^ 

Here  is  ethical  idealism  as  noble  as  that  which 
Plutarch  attributes  to  the  elder  Cato ;  yet  how 
different  are  the  two  pictures  !  On  the  one  hand,  an 
education  which  depends  almost  entirely  on  the  silent 
forces  of  tradition,  home-life,  and  example  ;  on  the 
other,  a  systematic  training  in  this  art  followed  by 
that  art,  until  the  child's  mental  and  moral  education 
is  completed  by  enforced  submission  to  the  city's 
laws.  And  the  history  of  Greek  education,  whether 
Athenian  or  Spartan,  illustrates  in  detail  this  general 
contrast  between  Greek  and  Roman  ideals.  At 
Sparta  boys  were  left  in  their  mother's  charge  during 
the  years  of  infancy  ;  but  from  the  age  of  seven  they 
ceased  by  law  to  belong  to  their  homes,  and  were 
incorporated  in  one  or  other  of  the  famous  '  divisions  ' 
and  '  packs '  characteristic  of  the  Spartan  system.- 
Here  the  boys  were  grouped  together  in  companies 
of  varying  age,  subjected  to  an  iron  discipline,  made 
to  feed  together,  plaj^  together,  sleep  together  ;  and 
though  they  were  also  required  from  time  to  time  to 
attend  the  men's  clubs,  where  they  sat  at  their 
father's  feet  and  listened  to  the  talk  of  their  elders, 
it  is  plain  that  these  well-organized  and  systematic 

1  Plato,  Protagoras,  325-6  (tr.  Jowett). 

2  Plut.  Lycurg.  16  ;   Freeman,  pp.  11-34. 


GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS      27 

methods  were  the  very  opposite  of  Roman  habits, 
which  allowed  for  constant  and  intimate  familiarity 
between  father  and  son. 

At  xAthens,  though  for  very  different  reasons,  the 
obstacles  to  parental  influence  were,  if  anything, 
greater  than  at  Sparta.  During  infancy,  the  mother's 
influence  on  her  children  was  inconsiderable,  owing 
partly  to  the  inferior  position  of  women  in  Athenian 
households,  partly  to  their  excessive  dependence  on 
the  service  of  slaves.  Once  the  boy  was  of  an  age 
to  begin  his  lessons,  his  mother's  lack  of  higher 
education  made  itself  felt,  and  national  custom  did 
not  give  her  that  authority  over  her  children  which 
was  claimed  and  held  by  Roman  matrons.  Nor  was 
the  father's  influence  much  greater.  Always  absent 
from  his  home,  at  the  meeting  of  the  Ecclesia  or  about 
his  business,  he  had  little  time  to  devote  to  his  son's 
education,  and  seems  as  a  rule  to  have  had  even  less 
interest.!  For  at  Athens,  as  at  Sparta,  the  education 
of  the  young  was  looked  upon  as  a  public  rather  than 
a  private  matter,  and  was  entrusted  exclusively  to 
professional  hands.  It  has  been  disputed  whether  or 
no  attendance  at  school  was  obligatory  by  Athenian 
law.-  Probably  it  was.  At  any  rate  school-attendance 
was  universal  in  Attica,  and  the  state  intervened 
from  an  early  period  with  regulations  as  to  the  age  at 
which  attendance  was  desirable,  the  hours  of  class, 
the  conduct  of  pupils,  and  so  forth. ^    An  Athenian 

1  Girard,  pp.  75  foil. 

2  Girard,  pp.  32  foil.  ;  Iwan-Miiller,  p.  166  ;  Walden,  pp.  58  foil. 
^  Aesch.  c.  Tifti.  6-12  ;  Ibocr.  Areop.  43-5. 


28      GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS 

citizen  was  thus  always  able  to  read  and  write,  to 
count  and  sing  and  play  the  lyre.  But  this  was  the 
least  characteristic  result  of  Athenian  education. 
Even  in  Sj)arta,  as  Plutarch  tells  us/  every  citizen 
had  these  necessary  elements  of  education,  and  at 
Rome,  where  the  state  made  no  attempt  to  regulate 
school-attendance,  the  number  of  illiterates  was 
probably  very  small.-  More  characteristic  of  Athe- 
nian life  was  the  general  opinion  that  education — 
culture,  or  iraiheia  to  use  the  regular  Athenian 
phrase — was  an  art,  to  be  learnt  in  turn  by  each 
individual,  and  capable  of  raising  him,  according  to 
the  varying  degree  of  his  capacity  and  industr}', 
above  the  common  herd  of  men. 

The  most  striking  illustration  of  this  fundamental 
difference  between  Greek  and  Roman  habits  of 
thought  is  to  be  found  in  the  early  history  of  schools 
in  Greece  and  Rome.  As  far  back  as  we  can  trace 
the  history  of  Greek  culture,  schoolmasters  appear 
as  a  regular  feature  of  Greek  social  life.  Achilles,  the 
ideal  type  of  heroic  Achaean  youth,  is  the  pupil  of 
Phoenix  in  the  Iliad,  of  Chiron  in  later  Greek  tradi- 
tion ;  and  the  relation  of  tutor  and  pupil  is  evidently 
characteristic  of  early  Greek  feudalism.^  The  precise 
date  at  which  regular  public  schools  were  formed  in 
Ionia  and  on  the  Greek  mainland  cannot  be  deter- 
mined ;  but  Athenian  tradition  attributed  school- 
laws  to  Draco  and  Solon,  and  it  is  certain  that  schools 
were  common  in  Athens  at  least  as  early  as  the  sixth 

1  Plut.  Lycurg.  16.  2  juHjen,  pp.  21  foil. 

^  Iwan-MuUer,  p.  155. 


GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS      29 

century  b.c.^  At  Sparta  they  can  be  traced  back  to 
an  earlier  date.  For  the  Spartan  system  of  education, 
as  known  to  us  from  later  authorities,  forms  an 
essential  part  of  the  Lycurgean  constitution  ;  and 
there  is  nothing  to  distinguish  this  system  of  life  in 
common,  with  its  '  divisions  ',  prefects  and  regular 
duties,  from  the  principle  of  modern  boarding  schools. 
In  Rome,  n<ational  legends — at  least  in  their  later 
hellenized  form — suggest  that  schools  were  common 
from  the  first  days  of  the  city's  history.  Plutarch 
sends  Romulus  and  Remus  to  school  at  Gabii,-  and 
there  are  frequent  allusions  of  this  kind  to  schools 
in  other  stories  of  primitive  Rome,  most  famous  of  all 
being  the  episode  of  Verginia.^  Do  these  legendary 
tales  represent  any  measure  of  historical  truth,  or  do 
they  simply  reflect  the  social  conditions  of  a  later 
age  ?  It  is  impossible  to  tell ;  but  there  is  a  passage 
in  one  of  Plutarch's  Quaestiones  Romanae  which 
requires  notice.-  '  The  Romans  ',  he  says,  'were  late 
in  beginning  to  teach  for  payment,  and  the  first  of 
them  to  open  a  school  of  letters  was  Spurius 
Carvilius,  a  freedman  of  that  Carvilius  who  was  the 
first  Roman  to  divorce  his  wife.'  Carvilius  was  consul 
in  235  B.C.  ;  so  that  his  freedman's  school  belongs  to 
the  middle  of  the  third  century,  and  (if  Plutarch's 
statement  is  literally  true)  schools  were  thus  of 
comparatively  recent  origin  in  Rome.     There  are, 

^  Aesch.  loc.  cit.  ;  Plut.  Solon,  1  ;  Girard,  pp.  38  foil. 

2  Plut.  Rom.  6. 

3  Livy,  iii.  44,  6  ;  v.  27,  1  ;  vi.  25,  9  ;  Dion.  Hal.,  Ant.  Bom. 
xi.  28,  3. 

*  Plut.  Qu.  Bom.  59  ;  cf.  Gell.  iv.  3,  2  ;  xvii.  21,  44. 


30      GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS 

however,  good  reasons  for  not  taking  Plutarch's 
statement  Uterally.  The  knowledge  of  reading  or 
writing  was  certainly  common  at  a  much  earlier 
date  in  Roman  history,^  and  Cicero  mentions  a 
custom  which  required  that  every  Roman  child 
should  know  the  Twelve  Tables  by  heart.  ^  These 
facts  suggest,  though  they  do  not  prove,  the  exist- 
ence of  regular  schools  where  children  could  be  taught 
to  read  and  write.  Moreover,  Plautus  alludes  more 
than  once  to  scenes  from  school-life  in  passages 
which  seem  to  be  the  reflection  of  ordinary  Roman 
customs,  not  mere  transcripts  from  his  Greek 
originals.^  Could  schools  have  been  so  familiar  a 
spectacle  in  the  Roman  society  of  his  day  if  their 
origin  was  of  such  recent  date  as  the  passage  already 
quoted  suggests  ? 

It  is  not  easy  to  reconcile  the  conflicting  evidence 
of  these  authorities.  One  or  two  scholars  have  solved 
the  problem  by  the  simple  rejection  of  Plutarch's 
statement.^  But  Plutarch  is  usually  good  authority, 
and  the  curiously  precise  nature  of  his  information 
suggests  that  he  is  here  following  some  well-informed 
source.  A  more  probable  interpretation  has  been 
put  forward  by  a  French  scholar.^  Many  of  our 
ancient  authorities  mention  a  custom  according  to 
which  Roman  schoolboys  brought  their  masters 
presents   on   certain   festival-days   throughout   the 

1  Mommsen,  History,  i,  p.  281  ;  ii,  pp.  115  foil.  (Eng.  tr.  1894). 

-  Cic.  de  Leg.  ii.  59. 

■^  Plant.  Bacch.  420  foil.  ;  Merc.  303  ;  Pers.  173. 

^  Bliimner,  p.  314. 

°  Jul  lien,  pp.  2G  foil.  ;  Wilkins,  p.  23. 


GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS   31 

year,  in  particular  on  the  feast  of  Minerva.^  Assum- 
ing, as  is  natural  enough,  that  this  custom  dates  back 
to  the  origins  of  school  life  in  Rome,  Plutarch's  words 
can  be  explained  as  due  to  a  misunderstanding  of  the 
statement  in  his  source.  Spurius  Carvilius  may  have 
been  the  first  schoolmaster  to  charge  a  regular  fee 
for  his  classes.  This  would  imply  that  before  his  day 
schoolmasters  were  dependent  on  the  generosity  of 
their  pupils'  parents,  just  as  Roman  advocates  under 
the  Republic  were  always,  in  theory  at  least,  depen- 
dent for  their  income  on  the  generosity  of  their  clients. 
One  of  the  professors  of  literature  mentioned  by 
Suetonius  in  his  de  Gramynaticis  retained  this  method 
of  payment  by  voluntary  contributions  until  well  on 
in  the  first  century  B.C.  ;  ^  and  the  historj^  of  Irish 
hedge-schools  is  a  reminder  that  a  sound  tradition  of 
national  education  can  exist  for  centuries  without 
any  form  of  permanent  endowment  or  state-control. 
But  the  whole  status  of  the  teaching  class  was 
lower  in  Rome  than  in  any  part  of  Greece.  Alcibiades 
might  box  his  schoolmaster's  ears,  but  Greeks  as  a 
rule  were  almost  subservient  in  their  respect  for  the 
'  wise  man ',  who  could  teach  others  how  to  be 
virtuous  and  clever.  In  Rome  teachers  were  less 
fortunate,  and  the  Greek  tradition  was  slow  in 
penetrating  Roman  society.  Most  of  the  '  illustrious  ' 
professors  of  literature  and  rhetoric,  whose -names 
have  been  recorded  by  Suetonius,  were  either  slaves 
or  freedmen.     Their  names,  too  (names  now  long 

1  Varro.  de  Be  rus^f.  iii.  3,  18 ;   Ovid,  Fast.  iii.  815  foil. ;   Tert. 
deldollO..  ^  ^net.  Gram.  1. 


32      GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS 

since  forgotten,  with  the  exception  of  OrbiUus) 
usually  betray  Greek  origin,  and  the  general  reputa- 
tion of  Greek  slaves  in  Rome  can  have  done  little  to 
increase  the  respect  of  their  pupils.  One  of  them  is 
said  to  have  started  life  as  a  porter,  chained  to  his 
master's  door.^  Another,  Lutatius  Daphnis,  was 
sold  for  700,000  sesterces,  a  record  price  on  the 
Roman  slave-market.-  That  was  in  the  hey-day  of 
Greek  influence,  when  prices  were  running  high,  and 
Suetonius  remarks  that  the  figures  these  learned 
slaves  commanded  in  the  market  were  as  high  as  the 
fees  which  their  masters  charged  for  their  classes." 
The  inevitable  consequence  of  this  curious  boom  was 
a  trade  in  the  buying  and  selling  of  educated  slaves. 
The  practice  was,  of  course,  degrading  for  both 
pupils  and  professors,  though  we  hear  of  some 
fortunate  exceptions.  Sulla,  Pompey,  Atticus,  and 
Julius  Caesar  had  each  a  professor  among  his  clients,* 
and  Curtius  Nicias  figures  as  a  friend  in  Cicero's 
correspondence.^  Another  of  these  grammatici  could 
boast  that  he  had  given  Sallust  the  matter  for  his 
history  and  Pollio  his  style.  ^  But  that  was  later  in 
the  history  of  Roman  education.  Cato's  attitude 
towards  his  slave  Chilon  was  characteristic  of  the 
second  century  B.C.  ;  and  even  the  professors  who 
were  not  slaves  had  no  adequate  social  standing. 
Orbilius  was  a  free  man,  and  exceptionally  learned  ; 

1  Suet.  Rhet.  3. 

2  Suet.  Gram.  3  ;   Pliny,  N.  H.  vii.  128. 

3  Suet.  Gram.  3.  '  ^  ibid.  12  ;   15  ;   16  ;  7. 

^  Cic.  ad  Fam.  ix.  10  ;  Suet.  gram.  14.  ^  Suet.  Gram.  10. 


GREEK  AND  ROMAN  EDUCATIONAL  IDEALS      33 

and  Horace  made  his  name  proverbial  within  a 
generation  of  his  death.  But  he  worked  in  extreme 
poverty  all  his  life,  and  wrote  a  book  on  the  way  in 
which  parents  neglect  to  pay  money  due  for  the 
education  of  their  sons.^ 

1  ibid.  9. 


Ill 

FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME 

'  At  vero  nos,  docti  scilicet  a  Graecia,  haec  et  a  pueritia 
legimus  et  discimus  :  banc  eruditionem  liberalem  et  doctrinam 
putamus.'     Cic.  Tusc.  ii.  27. 

The  contrast  is  extreme  between  the  older  tradition 
of  Roman  education  and  the  new  Graeco-Roman 
culture  which  was  so  soon  to  take  its  place.  On  the 
one  side  a  tradition  of  family  life  and  national 
custom,  with  no  higher  form  of  literary  education 
than  the  elementary  instruction  necessary  for  life's 
work.  On  the  other,  an  ideal  of  culture  which 
included  Greek  literature,  rhetoric,  and  philosophy, 
and  was  necessarily  dependent  on  school  instruction 
for  the  acquisition  of  this  knowledge.  The  change 
was  inevitable  once  Rome,  hitherto  the  centre  of 
a  small  group  of  Italian  towns,  became  the  metro- 
polis of  a  world-empire.  But  the  circumstances  of 
the  change  were  due  to  the  influence  of  half  a  dozen 
distinguished  Greeks  who  came  to  Rome  during  the 
second  and  third  centuries  B.C. 

Livius  Andronicus,  the  first  Greek  to  write  in 
Latin,  and  thereby  the  founder  of  Latin  literature, 
came  to  Rome  from  Tarentum,  probably  in  the  year 
272  B.C.,  and  was  active  as  teacher  and  writer  until 
the  end  of  the  century.^     Employed  by  his  patrons 

^  Schanz,  i.  1,  pp.  56  foil. 


FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME  35 

as  Latin  and  Greek  tutor  for  their  sons,  he  soon  found 
the  need  of  supplanting  the  Twelve  Tables  by  a  more 
literary  Latin  text-book.  His  translation  of  the 
Odyssey  was  the  result :  a  work  destined  to  remain 
a  classic  in  Roman  schools  for  at  least  two  centuries. ^ 
Of  the  other  early  Latin  poets  Ennius  is  of  special 
importance,  not  merely  as  a  writer,  but  also  as  a 
teacher.  An  Italian  by  birth,  he  was  Greek  by 
education — '  half-Greek  '  as  Suetonius  calls  him  ; 
and  he  gave  lessons  at  Rome  in  Greek  and  Latin 
literature.-  But  the  whole  character  of  his  versatile 
literary  activity  shows  that  he  was  consciously 
working  for  the  Hellenization  of  Roman  society. 
That  his  influence  in  this  direction  was  immense  and 
lasting  is  plain  from  the  numerous  quotations  of  his 
verses  which  occur  in  later  authors,  above  all  in 
Cicero.  Yet  by  a  strange  irony  of  fate,  it  was  Cato 
the  censor,  later  the  most  stubborn  opponent  of 
Greek  culture,  who  brought  the  young  poet  to  Rome 
from  Sardinia  in  204  b.  c."^  What  were  the  old 
Roman's  thoughts,  one  wonders,  when  Ennius  died 
twenty-six  years  later,  leaving  behind  him  a  vast  body 
of  Graeco-Roman  poetry,  and  an  influence  which  was 
only  to  grow  stronger  as  generation  followed  genera- 
tion in  the  new  tendency  towards  Greek  culture  ? 

The  very  year  in  which  Ennius  died  was  marked 
by  the  arrival  of  another  stranger,  whose  personal 
influence    was    hardly   less    important.      Crates    of 

1  Suet.  Gram.  1  ;  Hor.  Epp.  ii.  1,  69. 
^  Suet.  Gram.  1  ;  Schanz,  i.  1,  p.  111. 
^  Corn.  Nepos,  Cato,  1,  4  ;  Jerome,  Chron.  a.  1777  ( =240  B.C.). 


36  FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME 

Mallos,  the  most  distinguished  scholar  of  the  Perga- 
mene  school,  famous  as  a  grammarian  and  a  brilliant 
lecturer,  came  to  Rome  on  an  embassy  from  the  royal 
family  of  Pergamon,  most  probably  in  168  b.c.^  An 
accident  (he  fell  into  one  of  the  Roman  drains  and 
broke  his  leg)  kept  him  for  some  weeks  in  Rome,  and 
the  ambassador  turned  his  convalescence  to  good 
account  by  giving  public  lectures  on  Greek  literature 
and  grammar  to  any  who  might  care  to  come.  The 
effect  of  these  lectures  was  enormous.  Hitherto  it 
had  been  possible  for  Romans  interested  in  Greek 
literature  to  attend  the  classes  of  teachers  like  Livius 
Andronicus  and  Ennius,  perhaps  also  Spurius  Carvi- 
lius.  But  the  lessons  of  these  early  schoolmasters 
had  been  confined  to  a  few  texts,  and  were  of  an 
elementary  character.  Now  for  the  first  time  they 
heard  the  lectures  of  a  cultivated  scholar,  and  could 
form  some  idea  of  the  erudition  and  discernment 
peculiar  to  Hellenistic  literary  criticism.  There  was 
also  a  personal  interest  in  the  lectures  of  Crates, 
owing  to  his  lifelong  controversy  with  the  more 
famous  Aristarchus  of  Alexandria.  Aristarchus  had 
formulated  strict  laws  of  linguistic  formation,  which 
were  challenged  by  Crates  and  his  school ;  and  dis- 
cussion was  particularly  hot  as  to  the  correct 
interpretation  of  certain  Homeric  forms.  The  fol- 
lowers of  Aristarchus  were  known  as  the  Analogists ; 
Crates  was  the  leader  of  the  Anomalists,  and  his 
criticisms  were  as  erudite  as  they  were  lively.^    The 

1  Suet.  Gram.  2  ;  Schanz,  i.  1,  p.  329. 

^  Susemihl,  ii,  pp.  5  foil.  ;  Sandys,  i,  pp.  156  foil. 


FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME  37 

controversy,  then  at  its  height,  was  undoubtedly- 
discussed  by  Crates  at  Rome,  and  the  double  interest 
which  he  was  thus  able  to  give  his  teaching  is  plain 
from  the  history  of  early  Roman  scholarship.  Greek 
methods  of  criticism  are  now  for  the  first  time 
applied  to  Latin  literature.  Critical  editions  of 
Naevius,  Plautus,  and  Ennius  begin  to  appear,^  and 
the  controversy  between  Analogists  and  Anoma- 
lists  is  hotly  debated.  L.  Aelius  Stilo,  the  first 
Roman  grammarian,  seems  to  have  followed  Crates 
in  his  Anomalist  theory :  later  Julius  Caesar 
himself  wrote  a  famous  treatise  on  behaK  of  the 
Analogists.^ 

Suetonius  dates  Roman  interest  in  literary  criticism 
and  grammar  from  this  visit  of  Crates  to  Rome  :  the 
year  168  B.C.  is  thus  an  important  landmark  in  the 
history  of  Roman  erudition.  But  a  more  important 
innovation  in  educational  method  belongs  to  the 
same  period,  though  its  date  cannot  be  exactly  deter- 
mined. In  161  B.C.  the  senate  passed  a  decree 
empowering  the  praetor  to  expel  all  teachers  of 
philosophy  and  rhetoric  from  the  city.^  This  is  the 
first  mention  in  Roman  history  of  teachers  who  were 
later  to  dispute  between  themselves  the  claim  to  a 
monopoly  of  Roman  higher  education.  How  long 
they  had  been  in  Rome  before  the  senate's  decree  is 
uncertain.  A  fragment  of  Ennius  contains  a  casual 
reference  to  students  of  rhetoric  ;  but  the  poem  from 
which  it  is  taken  was  copied  from  a  Greek  original, 
and  it  would  be  unsafe  to  infer  that  Ennius  had  in 

1  Schanz,  i.  1,  p.  329.        ^  ^^j^^  p  333.        3  g^g^  ^j^^i^  1 


38  FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME 

mind  Roman  students  of  rhetoric.^  There  is  also 
a  reference  to  the  study  of  philosophy  in  one  of  his 
tragedies  : 

Philosophandum  est,  sed  'paucis  ;  nam  omnino  haud  placet} 

The  verse,  which  is  quoted  by  Cicero  and  Gellius, 
suggests  that  Roman  audiences  were  already  familiar 
with  Greek  theories  of  higher  education.  Certain  it 
is,  at  least,  that  the  decree  of  161  B.C.  was  without 
effect.  As  far  as  the  teaching  of  rhetoric  is  concerned, 
the  failure  of  the  decree  is  plain  from  the  whole 
history  of  early  Roman  oratory.  Cicero's  Brutus 
describes  a  development  which  is  marked  by  a  con- 
stant and  increasing  endeavour  to  model  Roman 
prose  according  to  the  laws  of  Greek  rhetoric  and 
prose-rhythm  :  a  sufficient  proof  of  the  existence  and 
influence  of  Greek  teachers.  Sempronius  Gracchus, 
father  of  the  Gracchi,  was  able  to  deliver  a  Greek 
oration  before  a  highly  critical  audience  at  Rhodes, 
probably  in  164  b.  c.  ;'^  and  his  contemporary, 
Aemilius  Paulus,  father  of  the  younger  Scipio,  was 
another  accomplished  orator.  Paulus  was  also 
noted  for  the  care  he  took  to  give  his  sons  a  Greek 
education.^  Sempronius  Gracchus  died  before  he 
could  take  part  in  the  education  of  his  two  sons,  but 
his  wife — the  famous  Cornelia,  daughter  of  the  elder 
Scipio,   and  mother-in-law  of  Scipio  Aemilianus — 

1  Frag.  Poet.  Bom.,  p.  131  (Baehrens)  ;  from  the  Sota. 

2  Quoted  from  the  Neopiolemus  by  Cicero  {Tusc.  ii.  1)  and 
Gellius  (V.  15,  9). 

3  Cic.  Brut.  79.  ^  ibid.  80  ;  Plut.  Aem.  Paul.  6. 


FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME  39 

kept  up  the  family  tradition  by  providing  her  boys 
with  the  best  Greek  tutors  of  the  day.  She  was 
rewarded  by  seeing  her  younger  son,  Caius  Gracchus, 
acclaimed  as  the  most  brilliant  orator  of  his 
generation.  1 

We  have  thus  continuous  evidence  for  the  study  of 
Greek  rhetoric  during  the  second  century  B.C. 

The  study  of  Greek  philosophy  is  even  better 
attested.  Six  years  after  the  decree  issued  by  the 
senate,  three  well-known  philosophers  came  as 
ambassadors  from  Athens  to  Rome :  Carneades, 
founder  of  the  new  Academy ;  Critolaus,  head  of  the 
Peripatetic  School;  and  Diogenes,  a  Stoic.^  Following 
the  example  of  Crates,  they  gave  public  lectures  as 
well  as  their  official  address  to  the  senate,  and  the 
enthusiasm  which  had  been  shown  for  Greek  litera- 
ture some  years  before  was  now  renewed.  Carneades, 
in  particular,  a  master  of  dialectics  and  the  most 
original  mind  in  contemporary  Greek  philosophy, 
was  especially  admired.  '  The  young  flocked  to  his 
lectures  ',  Plutarch  tells  us,  '  and  the  rumour  went 
abroad  that  a  magician  had  come  to  the  city,  capable 
of  winning  the  youth  of  Rome  away  from  all  other 
pleasures  in  their  enthusiasm  for  philosophy.'  Cato 
was  up  in  arms  at  once,  and  proposed  that  the  senate 
should  send  the  ambassadors  about  their  business  as 
soon  as  politeness  would  admit.  And  his  opposition 
found  support ;  for  next  year  two  Epicurean  philoso- 
phers were  convicted  of  teaching  their  doctrines  to 

1  Cic.  Brut,  104  ;   126  ;   Plut.  C.  Gracchus,  19. 

2  Plut.  Cato  maior,  22  ;  Gell.  vi  (vii).  14,  8. 


40  FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME 

the  young,  and  were  banished  from  the  city.^  But 
reactionary  measures  were  in  vain  :  Greek  philosophy 
had  come  to  stay.  The  younger  Scipio's  friendship 
with  the  Stoic  philosopher,  Panaetius,  begins  about 
this  time,  and  is  symbolic  of  the  change  in  Roman 
ideals.  ^  Even  more  significant  is  the  attitude  adopted 
by  Cato  in  his  old  age.  Never  weary  of  denouncing 
the  peril  of  too  great  familiarity  with  Greek  ideas 
('  Greek  literature  will  be  the  ruin  of  Rome  ',  he  was 
fond  of  saying  to  his  son),^  he  was  bent  upon  keeping 
Latin  literature  free  from  contamination.  '  Grasp 
your  matter,  and  the  words  will  come  of  themselves ', 
was  the  counsel  which  he  opposed  to  all  the  lessons 
of  Greek  rhetoric  :  *  and  his  famous  definition  of  an 
orator  as  '  a  good  man  able  to  speak  ',  was  designedly 
opposed  to  Greek  ideals.^  Yet  even  he,  in  his  old 
age,  began  to  realize  that,  to  make  Rome  independent 
of  Greek  literature,  it  was  necessary  to  learn  from  the 
Greeks ;  and  his  last  years  were  spent  in  a  closer 
study  of  Greek  literature.^  There  is  something 
pathetic  in  this  spectacle  of  the  old  man,  who  in  his 
youth  had  brought  Ennius  to  Rome,  learning  from 
his  adversaries  a  trick  he  despised. 

The  facts  just  quoted  show  that  the  Hellenistic 
ideal  of  a  culture  based  on  the  study  of  literature, 

^  Athen,  xii,  547  a;  Aelian,  Var.  Hist.  9,  12;  Schanz,  i.  1, 
p.  243.  2  Schmekel,  pp.  4  foil. 

3  Plut.  Cato  maior,  23  ;  Pliny,  N.  H.  xxix.  14. 

*  '  Rem  tene,  verba  sequentur  '  ;  in  Rhet.  Lat.  Min.,  p.  374 
(Halm). 

5  Sen.  Contr.  1,  praef.  9  ;  Quint,  xii.  1,  1. 

^  Cic.  de  Sen.  3  ;  Plut.  Cato  maior,  2. 


FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME  41 

rhetoric,  and  philosophy  was  fully  accepted  in  Rome 
by  the  middle  of  the  second  century  B.C.  A  concrete 
example  will  illustrate  the  spirit  in  which  Roman 
young  men  of  the  period  entered  upon  the  study  of 
Greek  literature  and  philosophy.  Some  years  before 
the  younger  Scipio  met  Panaetius,  he  had  come 
under  the  influence  of  another  distinguished  Greek, 
the  historian  Polybius.  The  origin  of  their  friend- 
ship, as  described  by  Polybius,  is  one  of  the  most 
personal  episodes  in  the  history  of  Graeco-Roman 
education.  Scipio  Aemilianus  came  of  a  family  that 
had  been  strongly  influenced  by  the  new  Greek 
culture.  His  father,  Aemilius  Paulus,  the  conqueror 
of  Macedonia,  had  done  all  that  he  could  to  provide 
his  sons  with  the  best  Greek  teachers  of  the  day. 
Teachers  of  literature,  rhetoric,  and  philosophy, 
teachers  of  sculpture  and  drawing,  teachers  of  the 
art  of  hunting  :  all  these  had  been  brought  over 
from  Greece  for  the  benefit  of  his  boys.^  Pydna  was 
fought  in  168  B.C.,  and  Perseus,  the  Macedonian  king, 
was  captured  by  the  Romans.  Aemilius,  as  victor, 
had  the  right  to  dispose  of  his  captive's  property,  and 
the  royal  library  was  set  aside  as  his  children's  share 
in  the  booty."  Scipio' s  personal  tastes  bore  witness 
to  these  early  influences.  After  Pydna  he  spent  his 
time  in  hunting  through  the  royal  park  which  had 
been  let  run  wild  during  the  four  years  of  the  war  ;  ^ 
and    throughout    life    his    favourite    author    was 

1  Plut.  Aem.  Paul.  6  ;  Cic.  de  Rep.  i.  36. 

2  Plut.  Aem.  Paul.  28. 

3  Polyb.  xxxi.  29,  3-6  (ed.  Biittner-Wobst). 

3029  p 


42  FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME 

Xenophon — a  natural  taste  for  one  who  had  been 
taught  to  hunt  as  well  as  to  ergoy  Greek  literature.^ 
But  Polybius  gives  the  truest  insight  into  his 
character.  The  following  passage  refers  to  the  year 
167  B.C.  or  shortly  afterwards,  the  year  in  which  the 
Achaean  hostages  were  first  brought  to  Rome  and 
then  distributed  among  the  different  towns  of  Italy. 
Fabius  and  Scipio  are  the  two  sons  of  L.  Aemilius 
Paulus  ;  the  former  having  been  adopted  by  the 
grandson  of  Q.  Fabius  Maximus  Cunctator,  the  latter 
by  the  son  of  P.  Cornelius  Scipio  Africanus,  the  victor 
of  Zama.  The  elder  boy  was  at  this  time  about 
twenty  years  old,  the  younger  in  his  nineteenth  year. 

'  The  beginning  of  my  companionship  mth  the  two  boys  was 
due  to  the  loan  of  books,  and  to  conversation  on  that  subject. 
Our  friendship  soon  became  closer,  and  when  the  hostages  were 
sent  to  the  Italian  cities,  Falbius  and  Scipio  begged  their  father 
to  let  me  remain  in  Rome.  This  was  granted,  and  our  intimacy 
was  already  far  advanced  when  the  following  incident  occurred. 
One  day,  after  we  had  left  the  house  of  Fabius  together,  Fabius 
turned  down  towards  the  forum,  whilst  Scipio  went  with  me  in 
another  direction.  After  a  little  Publius  said  to  me,  blushing 
and  in  a  low  quiet  tone  :  "  Tell  me,  Polybius,  why  is  it  that, 
though  there  are  two  of  us,  you  always  address  your  conversation 
to  my  brother,  putting  him  your  questions,  and  giving  him  your 
replies,  whilst  you  leave  me  alone  ?  I  suppose  you  share  the 
opinion  of  my  fellow-citizens.  They  all  believe,  so  I  am  told, 
that  I  am  too  easy-going  and  lazy,  the  very  opposite  to  a  Roman 
in  my  way  of  life,  because  I  do  not  care  to  plead  in  the  courts. 
They  say  too  (and  this  is  what  pains  me  most)  that  the  family 
to  which  I  belong  needs  a  very  different  man  at  its  head  from 
what  I  am  likely  to  be."    I  was  puzzled  at  the  boy's  way  of 

1  Cic.  Tusc.  ii.  62  ;  ad  Q.  fr.  i.  1,  23. 

2  To  avoid  obscurity,  I  have  used  the  first  person  singular 
throughout. 


FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME  43 

opening  the  conversation  (for  he  was  then  not  more  than  eighteen 
years  old),  and  answered  :  "  Scipio,  I  beg  of  you,  do  not  say  such 
things  ;  do  not  even  thinlc  them.  It  was  neither  through  con- 
tempt nor  through  any  low  opinion  of  your  character  that  I 
acted  as  you  describe  ;  far  from  it.  But  your  brother  is  the  older, 
and  that  is  why  I  always  begin  and  end  the  conversation  with 
him,  addressing  my  answers  and  words  of  advice  to  him,  and 
supposing  that  you  share  his  opinion.  But  now  I  am  glad  to 
hear  from  you  how  pained  j^ou  are  at  the  idea  of  being  less  active 
than  becomes  one  of  your  family.  That  shows  your  noble  spirit, 
and  I  would  gladly  help  you  to  say  and  do  something  worthy  of 
your  ancestors.  You  will  have  no  lack  of  helpers,  you  and  your 
brother,  in  the  studies  which  are  now,  I  see,  absorbing  most  of 
your  energies  and  ambitions  :  for  I  have  noticed  this  tribe  of 
teachers  flocking  over  just  now  from  Greece  to  Rome.  But  as 
for  the  problem  which  you  tell  me  is  now  troubling  you,  I  think 
you  will  find  no  one  better  suited  than  me  to  help  you  in  your 
work."  As  I  was  still  speaking,  he  caught  my  right  hand  in 
both  his,  and  pressing  it  warmly,  said  :  "  Would  that  I  could 
see  the  day  when  you  would  lay  all  other  interests  aside  to  live 
with  me,  and  give  me  the  whole  of  your  attention  !  From  that 
day  I  feel  sure  that  I  should  soon  prove  worthy  of  my  family  and 
ancestors."  I  was  overjoyed  at  the  lad's  eagerness  to  accept  my 
proposal.  But  when  I  thought  of  the  greatness  of  his  family  and 
the  success  of  so  many  of  its  members,  I  began  to  hesitate. 
However,  once  that  conversation  had  taken  place,  the  boy  was 
never  out  of  my  company,  and  seemed  to  care  for  nothing  so 
much  as  his  intimacy  with  me.'  ^ 

It  would  be  a  mistake  to  take  this  passage,  with  its 

curious  undertone  of  ItaUan  emotion,  as  typical  of 

all  Roman  society  of  the  period.    Every  Greek  was 

not  as  loyal  a  friend  as  Polybius,  nor  was  every 

Roman  as  eager  for  the  glory  of  noble  deeds  as  Scipio. 

Polybius   himself   goes   on   to   contrast   his   young 

companion's   idealism   with   the   conduct   of    most 

young  Roman  noblemen  of  the  period.    All  the  vices 

1  Polyb.  xxsi.  23,  4-24,  12  (ed.  Buttner-Wobst). 


44  FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME 

of  decadent  Greek  society  had  swept  in  on  Rome, 
with  the  advent  of  the  new  culture  ;  and  Polybius 
quotes  one  of  Cato's  sayings,  that  to  calculate  the 
decline  of  public  morality,  one  had  only  to  compare 
the  price  of  good-looking  slaves  on  the  market  with 
the  price  of  land  or  the  price  of  a  team  of  horses  for 
ploughing.  1  But  the  important  fact  is,  not  that  such 
inevitable  abuses  existed  (they  have  always  existed 
at  the  end  of  a  great  national  effort),  but  that  Roman 
idealism  found  its  natural  expression  in  Scipio's 
enthusiasm  for  Greek  culture  and  Roman  traditions. 
The  spirit  of  companionship  between  Greek  and 
Roman  revealed  in  this  friendship  between  Scipio  and 
Polybius — a  companionship  which  ignores  the  facts 
of  military  defeat  and  political  inferiority — is  indeed 
the  keynote  of  the  new  culture.  Cato's  contempt  for 
all  things  Greek  seemed  narrow  and  illiberal  to 
Scipio  and  his  friends,  just  as  a  mere  slavish  surrender 
to  Greek  intellectual  superiority  would  have  seemed 
to  them  unworthy  of  Roman  dignity. 

Nothing  is  more  instructive  in  this  connexion  than 
the  contempt  which  Polybius  expresses  for  a 
contemporary  Roman  noble,  A.  Postumius  Albinus, 
author  of  one  of  the  Roman  histories  written  in 
Greek,  then  a  literary  fashion. 

'  Aulus  Postumius  ',  he  writes,  '  merits  our  attention  for  a 
moment.  Though  bom  of  a  noble  family,  he  was  by  nature  a 
vain  and  idle  babbler,  eager  to  leam  Greek  customs  and  the  Greek 
language,  and  devoting  so  much  attention  to  these  that  he  fell 
into  extravagances,  and  by  his  conduct  brought  the  whole  of 
Greek  culture  into  discredit  in  the  eyes  of  older  and  more  respect- 

1  Polyb.  xxxi.  25,  5  (ed.  Buttner-Wobst). 


FIRST  GREEK  TEACHERS  IN  ROME  45 

able  Roman  citizens.  He  even  went  so  far  as  to  write  a  poem  and 
a  history  in  Greek  ;  and  in  his  preface  to  the  latter  work  he 
excused  himself  to  his  readers  for  being  a  Roman,  and  thus  not 
having  a  full  mastery  of  Greek  idiom  and  Greek  methods  of 
composition.  Cato's  retort  was  much  to  the  point  :  "I  cannot 
understand  the  motive  for  such  an  apology.  If  the  Amphictyonic 
council  had  ordered  him  to  write  his  history,  these  excuses  would 
perhaps  have  been  necessary.  But  a  man  who  takes  it  on  himself 
to  write  a  history  under  no  compulsion,  and  then  makes  an 
apology  for  liis  blunders,  is  a  thorough  fool.  He  is  as  much  a  fool 
as  though  he  had  entered  his  name  at  the  public  games  for  the 
boxing-match  or  the  Pankration,  and  then,  when  it  was  time 
for  the  match,  came  down  into  the  stadium,  pleading  that  he  was 
unable  to  stand  the  fatigue  and  the  blows.  Such  a  man  would 
very  properly  be  laughed  at  and  beaten  for  his  pains,  and  these 
writers  of  history  should  get  the  same  treatment  for  venturmg 
to  compete  against  properly  trained  men."  Nor  was  this  the 
only  way  in  which  Postumius  imitated  the  worst  features  of 
Greek  civilization.  He  was  a  lover  of  pleasure  and  a  hater  of 
work  :  as  was  proved  by  the  event.  For  in  the  Phocian  campaign, 
though  the  first  to  arrive  in  Greece,  he  pleaded  ill-health  and 
remained  in  Thebes  to  avoid  the  danger  ;  but,  the  campaign 
once  over,  he  was  the  first  to  send  home  an  account  of  the  victory, 
going  into  all  the  details  as  though  he  had  fought  the  battles 
himself.'  i 

It  is  a  Greek  historian  who  is  writing  ;    yet  Cato 

himself  could  hardly  be  more  contemptuous. 

1  Polyb.  xxxix.  1  (ed.  Biittner-Wobst). 


IV 

THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE 

'  Quid  P.  Scipione,  quid  C.  Laelio,  quid  L.  Philo  porfectius 
cogitari  potest  ?  qui,  ne  quid  praetermitterent  quod  ad  summam 
laudem  clarorum  virorum  pertineret,  ad  domesticum  maiorumque 
morem  etiam  banc  a  Socrate  adventitiani  doctrinam  adhibuerunt.' 
Cic.  de  Rep.  iii.  5. 

What  was  the  new  Greek  education  which 
Aemilius  Paulus  was  so  eager  to  obtain  for  his  sons, 
and  which  was  henceforth  dominant  in  the  schools 
of  Rome  ?  Out  of  the  turmoil  created  by  the 
Sophistic  movement  of  the  fifth  century  B.C.  two 
types  of  educational  theory  had  been  evolved  :  the 
scientific  philosophy  of  Plato  and  Aristotle,  and  the 
rhetorical  culture  best  expressed  in  the  writings  of 
Isocrates.  The  former  of  these  two  theories  is 
familiar  to  all  students  of  Greek  philosophy.  Its  full 
development  in  the  educational  theory  and  practice 
of  Aristotle  is  the  tjrpe  of  a  philosophical  programme 
carried  out  in  a  rigorously  scientific  spirit.  But  the 
educational  programme  of  Isocrates  demands  closer 
attention  :  partly  for  its  intrinsic  interest,  partly 
because  of  its  immense  and  abiding  influence  on 
Graeco-Roman  education.  For  Isocrates  was  more 
than  a  successful  teacher  of  rhetoric.  In  his  writings 
on  education  he  loves  to  call  himself  a  '  philosopher  \^ 
and — in  spite  of  Plato's  irony — the  claim  is  justified. 
1  Isocr.  Antid.  50  ;  270  ;  285  ;  Girard,  p.  312. 


THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE  47 

For  Isocrates  was,  quite  genuinely,  an  educational 
idealist.  In  his  theory,  education  is  no  mere  prepara- 
tion for  lifelong  scientific  research  :  still  less  is  it 
a  method  of  learning  absolute  virtue  or  absolute 
truth.  '  Let  no  man  imagine  ',  he  writes  in  his  first 
educational  manifesto,  '  that  I  hold  justice  can  be 
taught.  On  the  contrary  I  am  convinced  that  there 
is  no  art  capable  of  implanting  justice  and  temperance 
in  the  hearts  of  those  who  are  not  naturally  inclined 
to  virtue.  But  I  do  believe  that  nothing  helps  so 
much  towards  the  practice  of  virtue  as  the  study  of 
political  wisdom  and  eloquence.'  ^ 

These  words,  which  are  re-echoed  in  his  last  public 
utterance,^  made  when  Isocrates  was  eighty-two 
years  old  and  had  seen  a  brilliant  company  of  orators 
and  historians  pass  through  his  school,  are  character- 
istic of  his  whole  teaching.  Never  a  philosopher  in 
the  Platonic  sense  of  the  word  nor  a  mere  teacher  of 
formal  rhetoric,  his  aim  was  to  train  citizens  for 
success  in  their  own  private  life  and  in  public  affairs. 
Proudly  conscious  of  this  aim,  he  criticizes  the  rival 
theories  of  education  proposed  by  contemporary 
teachers.  For  Plato's  Academy  and  its  elaborate 
scientific  programme  he  has  a  half -tolerant  contempt, 
somewhat  embittered  by  a  sense  of  injured  personal 
vanity,  '  There  are  some  who  have  much  skill  in 
dialectics  and  who  give  all  their  time  to  astronomy, 
geometry  and  other  such  sciences.  I  do  not  think 
these  men  do  harm  to  their  pupils  :  on  the  contrary 
they  do  them  good — less  good  than  they  themselves 
1  Isocr.  c.  Soph.  21.  2  igo^r.  Antid.  274. 


48  THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE 

profess,  but  more  good  than  most  people  think.' 
And  he  ends  by  recommending  young  men  to  spend 
some  time  at  such  studies,  but  not  to  give  their  whole 
lives  to  them ;  '  making  shipwreck  among  the 
quibbles  of  the  Sophists '.^  For  teachers  of  rhetoric 
who  cared  only  for  practical  success  in  life  (the 
allusion  is  to  Tisias  and  Corax,  and  others  who  had 
written  short  manuals  of  the  art  of  rhetoric)  he  has 
a  scorn  which  recalls  the  fiery  invective  of  Aristo- 
phanes, and  which  we  shall  meet  again  in  Cicero's 
de  Orator e.  '  Teachers  of  hustling,  grasping  avarice  ', 
they  would  persuade  the  young  that  rhetoric  is  a 
mere  trick  which  may  be  learnt  like  any  alphabet.^ 
For  himself  rhetoric  is  the  noblest  of  all  sciences, 
requiring  from  the  student  long  effort  and  much 
sacrifice,  but  giving  him  in  return  knowledge  and 
practical  wisdom  that  are  indispensable  for  civic 
virtue.^  This  opinion,  expressed  in  language  which 
is  always  eloquent,  sometimes  almost  metaphysical 
in  its  phraseology,''  lifts  Isocrates  high  above  other 
teachers  of  rhetoric,  giving  him  an  important  place 
in  the  history  of  educational  theory. 

There  is,  of  course,  a  radical  contrast  between  the 
ideals  of  Plato  and  Aristotle,  and  the  ideal  expressed 
by  Isocrates  in  these  passages.  It  is  the  old  contrast 
between  the  Sophists  of  the  fifth  century — Prota- 
goras, Gorgias,  Hippias,  Prodicus,  and  the  rest — on 

1  Isocr.  Antid.  261-8  ;  cf.  Busiris,  23. 

2  Isocr.  c.  Soph.  9-13  ;  Antid.  42. 

^  Isocr.  c.  Soph.  16-18  ;  Antid.,  passim  ;  Panath.  30-4. 
*  Cf.  the  use  of  ISia  in  c.  Soph.  16. 


THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE  49 

the  one  side  and  Socrates  on  the  other  ;  only  now  the 
contest,  which  had  begun  as  a  struggle  for  an  ethical 
principle,  has  become  in  the  main  a  rivalry  between 
two  intellectual  theories.  The  story  of  that  rivalry 
is  familiar :  Plato's  rejection  of  rhetoric  in  the 
Gorgias  and,  to  a  lesser  degree,  in  the  Phaedrus  ; 
his  expulsion  of  poets  and  artists  from  the  ideal  state 
in  his  Bepublic ;  the  austere  mathematical  and 
metaphysical  programme  outlined  in  the  seventh 
book  of  that  dialogue,  and  carried  into  practice  in 
his  own  teaching  at  the  Academy  ;  finally  the  more 
conciliatory  attitude  adopted  by  Aristotle,  who 
admitted  rhetoric  as  a  formal  science,  akin  to 
dialectics  in  its  practical  value,  but  less  directly 
useful  for  philosophical  inquiry.^ 

The  stand  thus  made  by  Plato  and  Aristotle  for 
the  intrinsic  value  of  metaphysical  studies  is  of 
lasting  importance  in  the  history  of  ancient  education. 
Modern  terminology,  which  owes  its  present  form  to 
the  classical  definitions  of  Aristotle,  distinguishes  so 
sharply  between  philosopher  and  sophist  that  the 
confusion  apparent  in  the  thought  of  Isocrates  seems 
inexcusable.  But  his  contemporaries  had  a  different 
perspective.  Again  and  again  in  the  literature  of  the 
fourth  century  B.C.  the  '  philosopher '  or  lover  of 
wisdom  ((^tXocro(^o9),  whose  mission  is  the  study  of 
truth  for  truth's  sake,  is  confused  with  the  '  sophist ' 
or  teacher  of  wisdom  (croc^to-rrj?),  whose  function  is  the 
work  of  practical  education.^ 

^  Ar.  Rhet.  i.  1  ;  von  Arnim,  pp.  64  foil. 
2  von  Arnim,  pp.  11  foil. 


3029 


G 


50  THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE 

Plato  and  Aristotle  between  them  made  the  con- 
fusion finally  impossible  :  henceforward  '  philoso- 
pher '  and  '  sophist '  are  terms  of  clearly  distinct 
meaning,  and  the  study  of  metaphysical  and  ethical 
truth  is  recognized  in  every  school  of  the  Greek  world 
as  the  highest  form  of  human  intellectual  activity. 
But  this  newer  and  clearer  terminology,  directly  due 
to  the  teaching  of  Plato  and  Aristotle,  is  also  due  in 
large  measure,  though  indirectly,  to  the  educational 
idealism  of  Isocrates.  For  the  Isocratean  programme 
expressed  in  the  formula  we  have  quoted,  '  the  study 
of  political  wisdom  and  eloquence  '  {ttju  tcov  Xoyojv 
Tcov  ttoXltlkcju  eVt/ieXeiav),  had  an  immense  influence 
on  contemporary  thought :  to  it  is  due  the  later 
Hellenistic  notion  of  '  culture '  or  '  education ' 
(TratSeia)  as  a  necessary  complement  to  free  birth  and 
intellectual  attainments. 

Plato  and  Aristotle  themselves  came  under  the 
influence  of  this  teaching.  In  the  Laivs,  his  last 
attempt  to  win  Athenian  opinion  for  his  social  and 
political  theories,  Plato  outlines  a  programme  of 
educational  studies  very  different  from  the  earlier 
programme  of  the  Republic.  Metaphysics  are  no 
longer  mentioned  ;  and  the  study  of  mathematics  is 
reduced  to  that  elementary  acquaintance  with 
abstract  reasoning  which  even  Isocrates  would  have 
considered  desirable.^  This  is  a  direct  concession  to 
public  opinion,  made  by  the  most  haughtily  aristo- 
cratic of  all  Athenian  philosophers  :  a  concession, 
too,  which  must  have  been  largely  due  to  the  success 

^  Plato,  Laws,  817  E  foil.  ;  Wilamowitz,  Platon,  i,  pp.  673  foil. 


THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE  51 

of  the  Isocratean  programme.  And  the  same  policy 
of  conciHating  the  educated,  but  unphilosophic, 
pubHc  is  plain  in  the  dual  programme  of  studies 
adopted  by  Aristotle  as  a  characteristic  of  Peripatetic 
teaching  :  in  the  morning  private  lectures,  given  to 
a  class  of  select  pupils  ;  in  the  evening  public  lectures 
of  a  less  technical  character,  given  to  all  who  cared 
to  come.i  There  is  the  same  dualism,  too,  in  Aristo- 
tle's educational  vocabulary.  '  Philosophy  '  (<^tXo- 
ao^ia)  is  reserved  for  the  exclusively  metaphysical 
side  of  his  teaching,  whilst  '  culture  '  or  '  education  ' 
(TratSeta)  expresses  the  more  popular  section  of  his 
programme.^  The  words  are  not  always  kept  clearly 
apart,  for  Aristotle's  terminology  is  sometimes 
affected  by  the  transition  from  one  idea  to  another.^ 
But  the  general  distinction  is  proof  that  the  ideal 
represented  by  Isocrates  was  acquiring  a  recognized, 
though  subordinate,  place  in  Greek  educational 
theory. 

A  most  curious  illustration  of  this  fact  is  the 
personification  of  Paideia  as  a  new  form  of  deity. 
In  a  familiar  passage  of  the  de  Corona  Demosthenes 
pours  scorn  on  Aeschines  for  the  clumsy  apostrophe 
with  which  he  had  begun  his  peroration  :  '  0  earth 
and  sun  and  virtue  and  understanding  and  education 
(TratSeta),  by  which  we  learn  to  distinguish  between 
what  is  becoming  and  what  is  unbecoming.'  *  Our 
school-texts  simply  re-echo  the  comments  of  Demos- 

1  Gell.  XX.  5  ;  Willmann,  p.  50. 

2  Willmann,  pp.  131  foil.  »  e.g.  Ar.  Pol.  ii.  1263  b,  40. 
*  Aesch.  c.  Ctes.  260  ;  Demosthenes,  de  Cor.  127. 


52  THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE 

thenes.  But  Aeschines  was  a  shrewd  pleader,  and  he 
probably  was  right  in  calculating  that  an  Athenian 
jury  would  be  flattered  by  an  appeal  to  the  latest 
intellectual  catchword.  The  vase-paintings  of  this 
period  reproduce  the  same  allegorical  personification 
— a  sure  proof  of  its  popularity  ;  ^  and  it  is  worth 
nothing  that  four  centuries  later  Lucian  was  to 
introduce  Paideia  as  a  deity  into  a  famous  scene, 
probably  reminiscent  of  Aeschines  and  Demosthenes.^ 
No  better  type  of  this  later  Greek  culture  could  be 
found  than  Polybius,  the  man  whom  destiny  had 
marked  out  as  the  chief  intellectual  link  between 
Greece  and  Rome.  A  scientist  in  the  most  rigorous 
sense  of  the  word,  an  historian  whose  critical  faculty 
has  rarely  been  surpassed,  a  true  patriot,  and  at  the 
same  time  an  enthusiastic  admirer  of  Roman  political 
greatness,  he  is  the  symbol  of  those  intellectual  and 
moral  forces,  still  latent  in  Hellenistic  Greece,  which 
were  to  co-operate  with  Roman  national  tradition 
in  forming  the  new  Graeco-Roman  culture.  Polybius 
wrote  no  autobiography ;  but  personal  allusions 
abound  in  his  history,  and  the  story  of  his  early 
education  can  be  deduced  from  the  character  or 
quality  of  his  work.  He  was  evidently  a  maur  of  wide 
reading,  not  merely  in  his  own  special  science,  but 
also  in  Greek  poetry  and  prose.  Homer  and  Euri- 
pides seem  to  have  been  his  favourite  poets  ;  among 
prose  writers  the  historians  naturally  occupy  a  fore- 
most place,  and  in  particular  Timaeus,  the  object  of 

^  Reseller,  Lexikon  der  Mythologie,  iii.  1,  1251. 
2  Lucian,  Somn.  9,  14  :  Pise.  16. 


THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE  53 

so  many  of  his  criticisms,  Ephorus,  Theopompus,  and 
Callisthenes.i  The  study  of  rhetoric  is  also  plain. 
Not  that  Polybius  was  a  careful  stylist ;  but  only 
a  student  of  rhetoric  could  have  criticized  Timaeus 
as  he  does  for  his  use  of  rhetorical  technique.^  The 
influence  of  philosophy  is  even  more  plain :  for 
Polybius  is  as  much  a  political  philosopher  as  an 
historian.  And  it  is  here  that  he  is  most  typical  of 
his  age.  If  asked  to  define  his  philosophical  position, 
Polybius  would  almost  certainly  have  replied  that 
he  was  a  Stoic.  Stoic  influence  is  plain  in  all  his 
work  :  most  of  all  in  the  famous  sixth  book  where 
he  sums  up  the  merits  of  the  Roman  state.  His 
friendship  with  Scipio  had  brought  him  into  personal 
contact  with  Panaetius,  and  the  two  thinkers  had 
discussed  together  all  the  main  problems  of  political 
theory.^  But  Polybius  was  far  from  being  exclusive 
in  his  Stoicism.  As  might  be  expected  from  so 
scientific  a  mind,  the  influence  of  Aristotle  on  his 
thought  is  particularly^  strong  ;  *  and  his  admiration 
for  Philopoemen,  the  Achaean  national  hero,  who  had 
studied  philosophy  under  two  pupils  of  Arcesilaus, 
made  him  an  admirer  of  the  Middle  Academy.^  Yet, 
for  all  his  interest  in  philosophy,  Polybius  was  no 
metaphysician  and  had  little  time  for  dialectical 
subtleties.  Carneades,  whose  lectures  had  set  all 
Rome  talking,  was  too  destructive  in  his  scepticism 

1  Scala,  pp.  63-86. 

2  Polyb.  xii.  25  a,  5  ;  26,  9  (ed.  Biittner-Wobst)  ;  Scala,  p.  19. 

3  Cic.  de  Rep.  i.  34  ;  Scala,  pp.  222  foil. 

4  Scala,  pp.  126  foil. 

5  Polyb.  X.  22,  2  (ed.  Buttner-Wobst). 


54  THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE 

for  the  historian's  practical  sense,  and  Polybius  holds 
him  responsible  for  the  Academy's  decline.^  Intellec- 
tual scepticism  has  never  built  an  empire  ;  and 
Polybius  was  an  admirer  of  empire-builders. 

This  distrust  of  philosophy  apart  from  practical 
experience  is  a  link  between  Roman  traditions  and 
the  culture  of  Hellenistic  Greece  :  philosophandum 
est,  sed  paucis  ;  nam  omnino  haud  placet.  With  his 
usual  instinct  for  dramatic  truth,  Cicero  represents 
Scipio  and  Laelius  as  ever  eager  to  recall  Panaetius 
from  metaphysics  and  physics  back  to  the  problems 
of  ordinary  life ;  ^  and  Polybius  would  certainly 
have  applauded  their  good  sense.  It  was  the  same 
with  his  own  favourite  study.  History,  so  he  says 
in  the  preface  to  his  great  work,  is  only  interesting 
as  an  object-lesson  in  political  theory  and  moral 
conduct :  ^  and  Scipio,  who  made  history  instead 
of  writing  it,  would  have  agreed. 

The  practical  bent  of  both  tutor  and  pupil  is  even 
more  curiously  evident  in  their  attitude  towards 
music  and  athletics.  Scipio,  with  all  his  admiration 
for  Greek  traditions  of  culture,  could  never  wholly 
reconcile  himself  to  the  manners  of  the  palaestra. 
Cicero  puts  a  diatribe  against  Greek  athletics  into 
his  mouth  in  the  de  Re  puUica,^  and  Macrobius  has 
preserved  an  interesting  fragment  on  a  similar  topic 
from  Scipio' s  speech  against  the  Lex  ludiciaria  of 
Tiberius  Gracchus  :  ^ 

1  Polyb.  xii.  26  c  (ed.  Buttner-Wobst). 

2  Cic.  de  Rep.  i.  15  ;   19.  ^  Polyb.  i.  1. 
*  Cic.  de  Rep.  iv.  4.                             ^  Macrob.  Sat.  iii.  14,  7. 


THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE  55 

*  Our  free-born  boys  and  girls  are  going  with  lute  and  psaltery 
to  the  training-schools  of  professional  actors.  There  they  mingle 
with  lewd  companions,  are  taught  unseemly  antics,  and  learn 
to  sing  songs  which  our  ancestors  held  dishonourable  for  all  who 
were  not  slaves.  When  I  was  first  told  this,  I  could  not  believe 
that  men  of  noble  birth  were  giving  their  children  such  lessons. 
But  I  was  taken  to  one  of  these  dancing-schools  ;  and  there,  by 
Heaven,  I  saw  more  than  fifty  boys  and  girls,  among  them  one 
whose  presence  made  me  grieve  for  my  country  more  than  all 
the  others  :  a  senator's  son,  the  son  of  a  candidate  for  office,  not 
less  than  twelve  years  old,  with  castanets,  dancing  a  dance  which 
no  shameless  slave-boy  could  dance  without  dishonour.' 

In  his  eulogy  of  Scipio  Polybius  singles  out  this 
stern  attitude  towards  the  pleasures  of  decadent 
Greece  as  one  of  the  finest  traits  in  his  hero's 
character.!  And  Polybius  himself,  though  evidently 
familiar  with  all  the  customs  and  technicalities  of 
Greek  athletics,^  was  more  of  a  Xenophon  than  a 
Plato  in  his  preferences  for  out-door  sport.  Riding, 
hunting,  the  use  of  arms,  all  that  concerns  military 
and  naval  tactics  :  these  are  the  topics  on  which  he 
loves  to  dwell,  and  he  tells  us  himself  that  a  common 
interest  in  hunting  was  one  of  the  main  causes  of  his 
early  friendship  with  Scipio.^  There  is  only  one 
exception  to  this  community  of  tastes.  In  the  fourth 
book  of  his  Histories,  Polybius  tells  the  story  of 
Cynaetha,  a  village  in  Arcadia.  The  village  had  won 
an  evil  name  amongst  its  neighbours  for  brutal 
cruelty.  Polybius,  an  Arcadian  by  birth,  is  anxious 
to  clear  his  native  land  from  a  share  in  the  discredit, 

1  Polyb.  xxxi.  25,  8  (ed.  Biittner-Wobst). 

2  Scaia,  p.  22,  n.  1. 

3  Polyb.  xxxi.  29,  8  (ed.  Biittner-Wobst). 


56  THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE 

and  explains  that  the  people  of  Arcadia,  knowing  the 
rugged,  barren  nature  of  their  country  and  fearing 
the  moral  effect  of  such  surroundings,  had  given 
special  attention  to  the  development  of  dance  and 
song  in  every  village  ;  they  had  even  passed  a  law 
making  musical  exercises  obligatory  on  every  citizen 
of  Arcadia  until  the  age  of  thirty.  The  people  of 
Cynaetha  had  failed  to  enforce  this  law  :  hence  their 
inferior  civilization  with  its  traditions  of  brutality, 
which  Polybius  condemns.^  The  chapter  is  wholly 
characteristic  of  Greek,  and  especially  Hellenistic, 
thought :  recalling  the  newly  discovered  Hellenistic 
inscriptions,  which  provide  for  the  endowment  and 
upkeep  of  local  schools  of  music,  athletics  and 
literature.^  Polybius  was  a  true  Greek  in  his  feeling 
for  these  refining  influences  ;  but  neither  Scipio  nor 
Laelius  could  have  written  that  chapter. 

It  is  not  easy  to  define  the  new  Graeco-Roman 
culture  which  resulted  from  this  fusion  of  Hellenistic 
civilization  and  Roman  national  traditions.  Cicero, 
as  usual,  has  the  surest  instinct ;  and  he  makes 
Scipio  preface  his  view  on  the  merits  and  demerits 
of  the  Roman  state  with  these  words  : 

'  I  give  you  my  opinion,  not  as  one  wholly  ignorant  of  Greek 
customs,  nor  as  though  I  were  anxious  to  see  them  preferred  to 
our  own  ;  but  as  a  Roman  citizen  who,  thanks  to  his  father's  care, 
has  received  a  good  education  and  has  been  fond  of  study  since 
boyhood  ;  and  who,  none  the  less,  owes  more  to  experience  and 
the  lessons  of  home-life  than  to  the  study  of  books.'  ^ 

'  Usu  tamen  et  domesticis  praeceptis  multo  magis 

1  Polyb  iv.  20-1  (ed.  Biittner-Wobst). 

2  Ziebarth,  pp.  65  foil.  ;   123  foil.  ^  q^..  de  Rep.  i.  36. 


THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE  57 

eruditum  quam  litteris  '  :  the  words  might  be  taken 
as  a  motto  for  all  Roman  education  of  the  republican 
period. 

The  new  contact  with  Hellenistic  culture  added 
something  which  Cicero  does  not  here  express  in 
words,  though  it  underlies  his  whole  philosophy. 
If  the  earlier  traditions  of  Roman  education  are  best 
summed  up  in  the  consecrated  phrase  mos  maiorum, 
Cicero  himself  supplies  elsewhere  the  term  which  best 
expresses  the  Graeco-Roman  ideal  of  culture  :  not 
mos  maiorum  which  stresses  too  heavily  the  value  of 
family-tradition,  nor  TratSeta,  which  suggests  syste- 
matic instruction  in  the  art  of  civilization,  but 
humanitas  ;  a  word  which  can  be,  and  has  often  been, 
translated  by  such  varying  equivalents  as  '  culture  ', 
'  sympathy  ',  '  courtesy  ',  and  '  human  kindliness  '. 
The  word's  significance  can  hardly  be  grasped  without 
an  analysis  of  Cicero's  whole  theory  of  education  : 
its  meaning  was  in  doubt  as  early  as  the  second 
century  a.d.^  When  first  the  Romans  began  to  use 
it  as  their  equivalent  for  the  Greek  TratSeta,  its 
derivation  from  homo  made  plain  a  fundamental 
difference  of  outlook.  For  the  Greeks  education  was 
essentially  an  art,  and  TratSeta  means  '  education  '  as 
well  as  '  culture  '.  For  the  Romans  education  was 
something  quite  distinct  from  instruction  in  any 
art :  institutio  is  their  word  for  such  instruction, 
whilst  educatio  expresses  rather  the  result  of  home 
life  and  family  traditions.  So,  too,  humanitas  brings 
into  the  Roman  ideal  of  culture  a  note  that  is  lacking 
1  Gell.  xiii.  16. 


58  THE  NEW  GRAECO-ROMAN  CULTURE 

in  the  more  intellectual  Greek  ideal :  the  note  of 
human  dignity  and  human  sympathy.  Cicero  him- 
self uses  the  word  mainly  to  express  the  intellectual 
and  moral  refinement  of  an  educated  man ;  ^  but  the 
notion  of  human  kindliness  is  never  far  absent  from 
his  thought.  '  Homo  sum  ;  humani  nil  a  me  alienum 
puto '  :  it  is  hardly  an  accidental  coincidence  that 
the  famous  phrase  was  first  minted  by  a  poet  who 
was  himself  a  member  of  the  Scipionic  circle.  Its 
pregnant  thought  expresses  much  of  that  culture 
which  Scipio  and  Laelius  learnt  from  Polybius  and 
Panaetius,  and  which  Cicero  in  turn  learnt  from  the 
last  surviving  members  of  the  Scipionic  circle. 

^  See  the  full  analysis  in  Schneidewin,  pp.  28-40. 


UNDER  MAPvIUS  AND  SULLA 

'  At  vero  ego  hoc  tempore  omni  noctes  et  dies  in  omnium 
doctrinarum  meditatione  versabar.'     Cic.  Brut.  308. 

§  1.    Plotius  Gallus  and  the  '  Latini  rhetor es  '. 

It  is  a  curious  accident  that  the  most  disturbed 
period  in  Roman  political  history  should  be  precisely 
the  period  during  which  we  know  most  about  Roman 
education  under  the  Republic.  But  Cicero's  lucky 
star  sent  him  to  school  at  a  time  when  Marians  and 
Sullans  were  busy  killing  each  other  in  the  streets  of 
Rome  :  and  the  history  of  Roman  education  is  very 
largely  the  history  of  Cicero's  intellectual  growth, 
maturity,  and  influence.  During  those  years  of 
turmoil  and  bloodshed  Cicero  was  busy  studying 
rhetoric  and  philosophy,  and  learning  lessons  that 
are  more  difficult  to  teach  from  men  whose  youth 
had  been  spent  with  Scipio  and  Laelius. 

The  Gracchi  were  the  first  to  use  the  weapon  of 
Greek  rhetoric  on  behalf  of  the  democratic  cause. 
They  had  many  successors  and  imitators  :  most 
notable  of  all,  the  two  tribunes  Sulpicius  and  Carbo. 
But  the  democratic  spirit  is  apt  to  produce  queer 
reactions  in  education.  Roman  democrats  soon  found 
Greek  culture  an  expensive  luxury,  and  they  promptly 
denounced  it  as  an  idle  folly  of  the  rich.  Marius 
himself  was  almost  wholly  uneducated.    He  had  been 


60  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

brought  up  in  Cicero's  own  town,  Arpinum,  and  had 
gone  straight  into  the  army  at  an  age  when  Cicero 
was  only  beginning  his  studies.  '  He  practised 
neither  Greek  eloquence  nor  the  manners  of  town- 
life  ',  says  Sallust,  who  was  a  democrat  in  politics  ; 
'  and  so  his  genius,  being  wholly  devoted  to  an 
honourable  profession,  came  rapidly  to  maturity.'  ^ 
Plutarch  tells  the  same  story  after  his  own  fashion. 
'  It  is  said  of  him  that  he  never  learnt  to  read  Greek, 
nor  ever  used  the  Greek  language  for  any  civilized 
purpose,  thinking  it  foolish  to  learn  a  language 
which  was  taught  by  men  who  were  themselves 
slaves  '  ;  and  he  adds  that  Marius  might  have  had 
a  happier  end,  if  he  had  learnt  to  worship  at  the 
shrine  of  the  Greek  Muses  and  Graces.^  Cicero,  too, 
has  a  joke  at  the  expense  of  one  of  the  great  dema- 
gogue's relatives  :  '  You  care  so  little  for  all  things 
Greek  that  you  would  not  even  take  the  Via  Graeca 
to  get  home  to  your  villa.'  ^ 

This  studied  opposition  to  Greek  culture,  and  in 
particular  to  the  study  of  Greek  rhetoric,  led  to  a 
curious  episode  in  the  history  of  Roman  education. 
By  way  of  preface  to  his  de  Claris  rhetoribus,  Sueto- 
nius inserts  the  text  of  two  laws  directed  against  the 
new  schools  of  Greek  rhetoric  and  philosophy.  The 
earlier  of  the  two  is  the  senatus  consultum  of  161  B.C., 
banishing  all  teachers  of  philosophy  and  rhetoric 
from  Rome.*  The  second  must  be  quoted  in 
full :    it   is   an  edict  issued   by  the  two  censors  of 

1  Sail.  Bell.  lug.  63,  3  ;   cf.  85,  32.  2  pj^t.  Mar.  2,  2. 

3  Cic.  ad  Fam.  vii.  1,3.  ^  See  above,  p.  37. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  61 

92  B.C.,  Cn.  Domitius  Aenobarbus  and  L.  Licinius 
Crassus. 

'  A  report  has  been  made  to  us  that  certain  men  have  begun 
a  new  kmd  of  teaching,  and  that  young  men  are  going  regularly 
to  their  school ;  that  they  have  taken  the  name  of  teachers  of 
Latin  rhetoric  {Latini  rhetores)  :  and  that  our  young  men  are 
wasting  their  whole  days  with  them.  Our  ancestors  ordained 
what  lessons  their  children  were  to  learn,  and  what  schools  they 
were  to  frequent.  These  new  schools  are  contrary  to  our  customs 
and  ancestral  traditions  {mos  maiorum),  and  we  consider  them 
undesirable  and  improper.  Wherefore  we  have  decided  to 
publish,  both  to  those  who  keep  these  schools  and  to  those  who 
are  accustomed  to  go  there,  our  judgement  that  we  consider  them 
undesirable.'  ^ 

The  scholar  who  has  done  most  to  reconstruct  the 
history  of  this  edict  considers  the  text  as  given  by- 
Suetonius  a  forgery  :  ^  his  main  argument  being  that 
the  statement  contained  in  the  second  sentence  is 
inconsistent  with  Cicero's  claim  that  Roman  tradition 
was  opposed  '  to  any  detailed  universal  system  of 
public  education,  obligatory  by  law  '.^  But  the  two 
statements  are  plainly  not  inconsistent :  indeed  they 
are  rather  complementary.  And  there  is  no  sound 
reason  for  doubting  the  authenticity  of  a  text  which 
Suetonius  had  no  conceivable  motive  for  inventing. 
Moreover,  the  text  itself  is  confirmed  by  two 
independent  witnesses,  both  earlier  than  Suetonius. 
In  the  de  Oratore  Cicero  makes  Crassus  defend  his 
action  in  closing  these  new  schools  of  Latin  rhetoric  : 

^  Suet.  Rhet.  1 ;  cf.  Gell.  xv.  11,  where  the  term  Latini  rhetores 
is  wrongly  inserted  in  the  decree  of  161  e.g.  This  has  led 
Wilkins  (pp.  25  foil.)  into  error. 

2  Marx,  p.  144.  ^  q^q  ^^  ^g^  jy  3  .   above,  p.  24. 


62  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

the  novelty  of  their  name  is  insisted  upon,  as  in  the 
text  of  the  edict.^  And  Tacitus  gives  a  somewhat 
inaccurate  version  of  the  same  story,  confusing  these 
Latini  rhetores  with  teachers  of  rhetoric  in  general, 
in  his  Dialogue  on  orators.^  Tacitus  is  plainly  copying 
Cicero,  whom  he  actually  quotes,  for  most  of  his 
story  ;  but  he  has  one  accurate  detail  not  to  be  found 
in  Cicero's  dramatized  narrative.  Probably  for  the 
sake  of  literary  effect,  Cicero  makes  Crassus  the  sole 
author  of  the  edict.  '  I  abolished  these  new  teachers 
by  my  edict ',  Crassus  says  in  the  dialogue  ;  and 
a  little  later  :  '  I  thought  it  my  duty  as  censor  to  put 
a  stop  to  this  danger.'  ^  Suetonius,  on  the  other  hand, 
gives  the  edict  as  issued  jointly  by  the  two  censors, 
Cn.  Domitius  Aenobarbus  and  L.  Licinius  Crassus  : 
and  his  statement  is  confirmed  by  Tacitus.*  Both 
men  must  have  had  some  common,  trustworthy 
source  of  information ;  and  the  most  probable 
source,  to  which  both  would  have  had  easy  access, 
was  the  authentic  text  of  the  edict  itself. 

Whether  the  text,  as  we  have  it,  be  genuine  or  not, 
the  fact  that  Crassus  and  Domitius,  acting  con- 
jointly, closed  at  least  one  school  of  Latin  Rhetoric 
in  92  B.C.  cannot  be  disputed  :  and  the  fact  raises 
two  or  three  curious  questions.  In  the  first  place, 
the  censorship  of  Crassus  and  Domitius  is  notorious 
in  Roman  history  for  constant  quarrels  between  the 

1  Cic.  de  Or.  iii.  93-5.  ^  t^^,  j)i^i  35 

3  Cic.  loc.  cil.  93  ;  94. 

*  '  [M.]  Crasso  et  Domitio  censoribus.'  The  M.  is  almost 
certainly  a  copyist's  insertion  ;  see  Gudeman  ad  loc. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  63 

two  censors,  which  culminated  in  a  famous  altercatio.^ 
What  brought  these  two  men  together  in  92  B.C.,  and 
on  so  curious  an  issue  ?  Then  again,  the  censor  on 
whom  Cicero  throws  the  whole  responsibility  for  the 
edict,  L.  Licinius  Crassus,  was  the  most  distinguished 
orator  of  his  day,  and  had  done  more  than  any  man 
alive  to  apply  the  principles  of  Greek  rhetoric  to 
Roman  oratory.  Why  should  he  close  a  school  of 
Latin  rhetoric  ?  Lastly,  who  were  these  Latini 
rhetores,  and  what  was  their  offence  against  Roman 
law  or  custom  ? 

The  last  question  may  be  answered  first.  Suetonius 
himself  quotes  from  one  of  Cicero's  letters  to  a  certain 
M.  Titinius,  the  statement  that  L.  Plotius  Gallus  was 
the  first  to  teach  rhetoric  in  Latin  at  Rome  ;  ^  and 
the  elder  Seneca  and  Quintilian  both  repeat  Cicero's 
statement.^  Now  Plotius  Gallus  is  known  to  us  in 
another  connexion :  for  Cicero  refers  to  a  poet, 
L.  Plotius,  an  admirer  and  client  of  Marius,  in  his 
pro  At  cilia, ^  and  the  identity  of  this  poet  with  the 
teacher  of  Latin  rhetoric  is  asserted  by  an  early  and 
well-informed  scholiast.^  This  makes  Plotius  Gallus 
a  democrat  in  politics,  and  fits  in  well  with  the  only 
other  item  of  information  to  be  gleaned  from  our 
scanty  sources.  In  56  B.C.,  a  year  before  Cicero  pub- 
lished his  de  Oratore,  Plotius  was  still  alive  as  a  very 
old  man,  and  composed  a  speech  for  an  unknown 

1  Pliny,  N.  H.  xvii.  1-6  ;  Cic.  de  Or.  ii.  45  ;  230 ;  Munzer  in 
Pauly-Wissowa,  v.  1326.  2  g„g|-  j^j^^i  2. 

'  Sen.  Contr.  ii,  praef.  5  ;  Quint,  ii.  4,  42. 
*  ac.  'pro  Arch.  9,  20.  ^  Schol.  Bob.  ad  he. 


64  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

Atratinus  who  had  prosecuted  Cicero's  friend  and 
correspondent,  M.  Coelius,  for  assault.^  Coelius  was 
a  gay  young  aristocrat,  and  the  name  Atratinus  has 
a  plebeian  ring  about  it.  Probably  Plotius  Gallus 
was  still  loyal  to  his  early  political  connexions. 

At  this  point  Cicero  himself  comes  into  the  story. 
In  the  letter  to  Titinius  which  Suetonius  quotes, 
Cicero  gives  us  the  following  bit  of  autobiography. 

*  When  I  was  a  boy,  I  remember  that  a  certain  Plotius  was  the 
first  to  teach  rhetoric  in  Latin.  Everybody  was  crowding  to  his 
school :  the  keenest  students  of  oratory  were  getting  lessons 
from  him,  and  I  was  disappointed  at  not  being  let  go  there  myself. 
But  I  stayed  away  on  the  advice  of  friends  who  were  very  highly 
educated,  and  who  held  that  practice  in  Greek  declamation  was 
a  better  training  for  talent.'  ^ 

The  date  must  have  been  93  or  92  B.C.,  when  Cicero 
was  just  thirteen  or  fourteen  years  old  :  for  the 
imaginary  date  of  the  de  Oratore  is  91  B.C.,  and 
Crassus  there  speaks  of  the  whole  episode  as  having 
taken  place  a  year  or  two  previously.^  The  distin- 
guished friends  who  advised  the  young  boy  not  to 
attend  the  classes  of  Plotius  Gallus  can  have  been 
no  other  than  Crassus  himself  and  his  relatives,  the 
two  Scaevolae.  For  Cicero's  father,  though  of 
obscure  origin,  had  influential  connexions  in  Rome. 
Either  at  Arpinum  or  Rome,  he  had  sent  his  son  to 
a  school  where  he  was  a  classmate  of  the  younger 
Marius  and  Atticus ;  ^  and  once  the  boy  had  taken  the 
toga  virilis — which  would  normally  have  happened 
in  93  or  92  B.C.,  for  Cicero  was  born  in  106  B.C. — 

1  Suet.  Rhet.  2.  -  ibid.  ^  q^.  de  Or.  iii.  93. 

*  Nep.  vit.  Alt.  1,  4  ;  cf.  Cic.  de  Leg.  i.  13  ;  Brut.  307. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  65 

his  father  put  him  under  the  direct  protection  and 
patronage  of  Q.  Mucius  Scaevola  the  Augur. ^ 
Shortly  afterwards,  Scaevola  died  ;  and  Cicero  then 
transferred  his  allegiance  to  the  Augur's  relative  and 
namesake,  Q.  Mucius  Scaevola  Pontifex.  Licinius 
Crassus  was  son-in-law  to  Scaevola  Augur,  and  the 
whole  family  was  closely  connected  with  the  Scipionic 
tradition.^  Cicero's  fragment  of  autobiography  thus 
appears  in  a  new  light  when  set  in  its  social  and 
political  background. 

That  Plotius  Callus  was  forbidden  to  teach  Latin 
rhetoric  on  political  grounds,  seems  plain  enough. 
Crassus  and  Domitius  were  personal  enemies,  but 
they  were  both  aristocrats  and  conservative  in 
politics.  Nor  can  the  plea  that  a  school  of  Latin 
rhetoric  was  a  novelty  have  been  more  than  a 
pretence.  Several  other  Romans  were  teaching 
rhetoric  in  or  about  this  time  ;  ^  and  though  we  know 
nothing  of  the  language  in  which  they  taught,  it 
seems  hardly  credible  that  all  their  teaching  was 
done  in  Greek.  And  M.  Antonius,  whom  Cicero  names 
as  the  great  rival  of  Crassus  in  the  Hellenized  style  of 
oratory,  had  written  a  Latin  text-book  of  rhetoric 
before  91  b.  c*  In  the  de  Oratore,  Cicero  makes 
Crassus  defend  his  action  on  the  grounds  given  in 
the  edict  as  preserved  by  Suetonius,  with  the  added 
qualification  that  when  competent  Latin  teachers 
could  be  found,  they  should  be  preferred  to  the 

1  ac.  de  Am.  1  ;  Brut  306.  2  Zielinski,  p.  34L 

3  Suet.  Oram.  6  ;  Cic.  Brut.  102,  207  ;   Schanz,  i.  2,  p.  452. 
*  Gc.  de  Or.  i.  94  ;  Or.  18  ;  Brut.  163. 


66  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

Greeks.  Nothing  less  could  be  expected  in  a  dialogue 
written  to  present  Greek  theories  of  rhetoric  in 
a  Latin  form.  But  this  plea  of  incompetent  teaching 
does  not  explain  the  drastic  and  almost  unpre- 
cedented action  of.  the  censors.  Their  edict  is  only 
intelligible  in  the  light  of  contemporary  politics. 

Were  there  other  Latini  rhetores  besides  Plotius 
Gallus  ?  And  did  the  movement  survive  the  edict  of 
92  B.  c.  ?  No  satisfactory  answer  can  be  given  to  the 
former  question.  All  our  authorities  speak  of 
teachers  in  the  plural ;  but  they  are  all  influenced, 
directly  or  indirectly,  by  the  language  of  the  edict, 
and  the  censors  had  excellent  motives  for  making 
a  personal  political  manoeuvre  appear  as  impersonal 
as  official  language  could  make  it.  Plotius  Gallus 
is  the  only  Latinus  rhetor  whose  name  has  come  down 
to  us,  and  there  may  well  have  been  no  other.  And, 
since  Plotius  Gallus  lived  until  well  on  into  the 
fifties,  his  school  of  Latin  rhetoric  probably  outlived 
the  years  of  aristocratic  supremacy  in  Rome.  Varro 
mentions  him  as  a  well-known  teacher  of  rhetoric  ;  ^ 
and  that  is  all  we  know  of  his  personal  history. 
But  his  school  has  left  its  mark  in  Latin  litera- 
ture. 

Somewhere  between  the  years  86  and  82  b.c.^  an 
unknown  student  of  rhetoric  wrote  in  Latin  for  the 
benefit  of  his  friend  C.  Herennius  a  text-book  of 
rhetoric,  closely  modelled  on  the  best  Greek  authors. 

1  Varro,  Sat.  257  b  (perhaps  also  379  B  ;  Marx,  p.  148). 

2  Marx,  p.  153  ;  Warde  Fowler  in  Roman  Essays,  pp.  96  foil., 
who  gives  good  reasons  for  placing  the  date  between  84  and  82  b.  c. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  67 

The  ad  Herennium,  as  the  book  is  now  called  (for 
its  proper  title  is  uncertain),  is  doubly  interesting  as 
being  one  of  the  oldest  extant  works  in  Latin  prose, 
and  a  direct  survival  from  the  daj^s  of  Marius  and 
Sulla.  Nothing  is  known  of  the  author  beyond  the 
little  that  he  tells  us  himself  in  the  preface  to  his  book. 
He  was  no  longer  a  boy  at  school  when  he  wrote,  for 
he  speaks  of  the  pressure  of  family  affairs  ;  and  he 
is  old  enough  to  prefer  philosophy  to  rhetoric  in  his 
spare  hours.^  His  friend  Herennius  was  probably 
a  democrat,  for  the  gens  Herennia  was  allied  to  the 
family  of  Marius  ;  ^  and  the  anti-Hellenism  of  the 
democratic  party  is  so  deliberately  emphasized  by 
the  anonymous  author,  that  he  may  fairly  be  taken 
as  a  type  of  those  who  came  under  the  influence  of 
Plotius  Gallus.  In  his  preface  to  the  first  book,  for 
example,  he  complains  that  Greek  text-books  are 
pedantic  and  unpractical ;  no  Greek  author  is 
mentioned  by  name  throughout  the  whole  work  ;  and 
the  historical  exemj)la,  which  are  a  regular  feature 
of  all  such  text-books,  are  deliberately  taken  from 
Roman,  not  Greek,  history.^ 

This  last  point  leads  to  a  curious  complication. 
From  what  we  know  of  the  Latini  rhetores  and  their 
history,  it  seems  certain  that  the  anonymous  friend 
of  C.  Herennius  must  have  been  himself  one  of  the 
democratic  party ;  and  his  Latin  text-book  has  all 
the  appearance  of  a  literary  manifesto.  But  it  is 
not  so  easy  to  identify  the  author's  poUtics  from  his 

1  Ad  Her.  i,  praef.  1  ;  iii.  40.  2  pi^^  j^^j..  5. 

3  Ad  Her.  iv,  praef.  1  ;  Marx,  pp.  103  foil. 


68  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

allusions  to  contemporary  history  :  for  many  of  his 
exempla  are  taken  straight  from  the  controversies 
of  his  own  day.  '  Should  Scipio  be  exempted  from 
the  legal  age  for  accepting  office  as  consul  ?  ' 
'  Scipio  Nasica  is  impeached  before  the  tribunes  of 
the  people  for  the  murder  of  Tiberius  Gracchus.' 
'  Caepio  is  impeached  before  the  tribunes  of  the 
people  for  the  loss  of  his  army .'  '  Caepio  is  impeached 
for  illegal  action  against  Saturninus.'  '  Should  the 
Italians  receive  the  rights  of  citizenship  ?  '  '  The 
murderer  of  Sulpicius  is  put  on  trial.'  ^  These  are 
all  subjects  on  which  any  democrat  would  have  been 
willing  to  declaim,  and  the  excitement  must  have 
been  intense  if  such  subjects  were  actually  debated 
in  the  classrooms  of  Plotius  Gallus.  But  side  by 
side  with  these  revolutionary  themes  are  others  of 
the  most  orthodox  conservatism .  In  one  the  slaughter 
of  the  optimates  is  reckoned  a  public  disaster  ;  in 
another  the  revival  of  public  prosperity  is  due  to  the 
optimates ;  in  two  others  Gaepio's  attack  on 
Saturninus  is  praised  as  the  action  of  a  patriot.^ 
These  exempla  were  probably  borrowed  by  the  author 
from  his  own  school-notes.  Apparently  Plotius 
Gallus  allowed  both  sides  a  hearing  in  his  school : 
perhaps  he  thought  it  safer  to  have  both  sides  equally 
represented.  In  any  case,  there  is  plenty  of  material 
in  the  ad  Herennium  to  justify  Cicero's  guardians  in 
keeping  him  from  such  dangerous  surroundings.  It 
would  never  do  for  the  conservatives  to  lose  the 

1  ad  Her.  iii.  2  ;  iv.  68  ;  i.  21,  24,  25. 

2  ibid.  iv.  12,  45  ;  i.  21  ;  ii.  17  ;  Marx,  p.  152. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  69 

gifted  young  student ;   for  stories  of  Cicero's  preco- 
cious talent  were  still  told  in  the  days  of  Plutarch.^ 

§  2.  Cicero's  Student-years . 
Turned  away  from  the  school  of  Plotius  Gallus, 
Cicero  did  not  lose  his  zeal  for  the  study  of  rhetoric. 
In  the  Brutus  he  tells  the  story  of  those  early  student 
days.  Crassus  was  still  a  dominant  personality  in 
the  forum,  and  the  other  orators  of  the  period — 
Antonius,  Sulpicius,  Cotta,  the  young  Hortensius — 
were  at  the  height  of  their  fame .  '  I  went  to  hear 
them  all ',  he  says,  '  and  was  kept  hard  at  work. 
Every  day  I  composed  something  m3^self,  reading 
also  and  taking  notes  :  for  I  was  not  content  with  the 
mere  practice  of  declamation.'  ^  Nor  was  rhetoric 
more  than  one  of  many  enthusiasms.  Cicero  must 
have  studied  Greek  literature  at  school,  and  Plutarch 
has  a  story  that  the  orator's  earliest  dream  was  to 
become  a  great  poet :  ^  later  he  studied  under  the 
poet  Archias.*  More  important  was  the  influence  of 
L.  Aelius  Stilo,  Rome's  first  great  scholar  and  the 
master  of  Cicero's  contemporary,  Varro.^  From  him 
Cicero  learnt  that  love  of  his  country's  literature 
and  history  which  remained  a  life-long  possession  : 
possibly  also  his  remarkable  familiarity  with  Ennius 
and  the  older  Roman  poets.  Philosophy  was  first 
taught  him  by  Phaedrus,  an  Epicurean  ;  but  these 
early  lessons  made  little  impression.  Phaedrus  is 
mentioned  affectionately  in  Cicero's  correspondence/ 

1  Plut.  Cic.  2.  2  5^^f  305.  3  piut  cic.  2. 

*  pro  Arch.  L  ^  ^^^^  207. 

®  ad  Fam.  xiii.  1,  2  ;  de  Fin.  i.  16. 


70  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

but  his  name  is  omitted  in  the  two  passages  which 
give  Cicero's  intellectual  autobiography. ^ 

In  the  de  Oratore  Cicero  claims  that  jurisprudence 
is  the  Roman  counterpart  to  Greek  philosophy ;  ^ 
his  early  friendship  with  the  Scaevolae  is  thus  of 
peculiar  importance.  By  good  fortune  this  friendship 
developed  into  a  sort  of  private  tuition.  Scaevola 
Augur  had  the  habit  of  bringing  his  young  clients 
together  when  about  to  give  a  decision  in  his  work 
as  jurisconsult,  and  Cicero  shared  this  privilege.^ 
Like  many  another  brilliant  advocate,  Cicero  was  no 
jurist ;  but  these  informal  lessons  in  the  house  of 
Scaevola  left  their  mark.  Cicero  never  lost  his 
respect  for  the  greatness  of  Roman  law,  and  for  the 
people  who  had  made  that  law.  And  his  own 
acquaintance  with  the  practical  working  of  Roman 
law  in  the  courts  was  always  a  valuable  asset. 

The  Brutus  tells  how  desolate  Cicero  found  the 
years  of  Marian  supremacy  in  Rome.*  Books  were 
his  refuge  from  the  constant  pressure  of  public 
anxieties.  And  now  for  the  first  time  he  becomes 
aware  of  Greek  philosophy.  Phaedrus  had  been 
replaced  by  a  Stoic  tutor,  Diodotus,  who  remained 
Cicero's  companion  until  his  death  in  59  b.c.^  But 
it  was  from  another  quarter  that  the  decisive  impulse 
came.  Mithridates  had  just  occupied  Athens  :  the 
schools  there  had  been  broken  up,  and  several 
Athenian  philosophers  were  seeking  refuge  in  Rome. 

1  Brut.  305  foil.  ;  de  Nat.  deor.  i.  6.  2  ^^  q^  ^  195 

3  Brut.  306  ;  de  Am.  1  ;  de  Leg.  i.  13.  «  Brut.  305  foil. 

5  Brut.  309  ;  ad  Att.  ii.  20,  6  ;  Tusc.  v.  113  ;  Acad.  ii.  115. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  71 

Prominent  amongst  them  was  Philo  of  Larissa, 
recently  elected  head  of  the  Academy,  and  in  every 
way  a  brilliant  personality.  Philo  lectured  on 
rhetoric  as  well  as  on  philosophy,^  and  Cicero  went 
to  hear  his  lectures.  '  I  felt  a  wonderful  enthusiasm 
for  philosophy ',  he  writes,  '  and  gave  myself  up 
entirely  to  Philo' s  teaching.'  ^  A  brief  digression  is 
needed  to  explain  the  character  of  this  teaching,  and 
the  true  reason  of  Cicero's  enthusiasm. 

Aristotle  was  the  first  Greek  philosopher  to  teach 
rhetoric  in  his  school,  and  his  action  pleased  neither 
the  disciples  of  Isocrates  nor  the  disciples  of  Plato.^ 
The  controversy  was  continued  during  the  next  two 
centuries,  and  modern  research  has  established  the 
positions  taken  up  by  the  four  great  schools.* 
Aristotle's  practice  was  maintained  by  the  later 
Peripatetics,  and  was  also  accepted  by  the  Stoics, 
who  held  that  the  wise  man  can  alone  possess  and 
impart  all  forms  of  knowledge.  But  the  Stoics, 
unlike  the  Peripatetics,  were  interested  only  in  the 
formal  side  of  rhetorical  theory,  and  Cicero  complains 
that  they  neglected  the  practical  work  of  developing 
the  subject-matter  (inventio)  in  favour  of  abstract 
definitions  and  sub-distinctions.^  An  exactly  inverse 
relation  existed  between  the  schools  of  Plato  and 
Epicurus,  who  agreed  in  their  practice,  but  dis- 
agreed in  theory.    Plato  had  taught  that  rhetoric  was 

1  Tusc.  ii.  9,  26  ;  de  Or.  iii.  110.  2  jj^^^  305  ;  Acad.  i.  13. 

3  Diog.  Laert.  v.  1,  3  ;  Ar.  Ehet.  i.  1355a  21. 
*  See  in  general  von  Amim,  pp.  73  foil. 
5  de  Or.  ii.  157-9  ;  de  Fin.  iv.  6  ;  Top.  6. 


72  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

harmful,  and  forbade  it  in  his  school.  Epicurus 
admitted  rhetoric  as  a  true  science,  useful  for 
political  purposes  ;  but  his  system  aimed  at  making 
men  indifferent  to  all  forms  of  political  activity,  and 
rhetoric  was  thereby  excluded.  The  controversy 
gave  rise  to  a  whole  literature  of  polemical  essays. 
One  of  these  essays  written  by  an  Epicurean  named 
Philodemus  was  recovered  during  the  last  century, 
and  it  is  from  Philodemus  that  modern  scholars  have 
reconstructed  this  sequel  to  the  controversy  between 
Plato  and  Isocrates. 

During  the  Hellenistic  age  Greek  philosophy  began 
to  decline.  Stoic  teaching,  with  its  pantheistic 
cosmopolitanism  and  its  interest  in  scientific  research, 
was  best  suited  to  the  spirit  of  the  age  ;  and  its 
austere  morality  won  the  respect  even  of  such  Roman 
conservatives  as  Scipio  and  Aelius  Stilo.  In  the 
growing  indifference  to  metaphysical  inquiry,  all  four 
schools  began  to  conciliate  public  opinion  by  a  more 
popular  programme  of  studies  ;  and,  by  a  strange 
irony  of  fate,  Plato's  school,  with  its  memories  of  the 
Gorgias  and  the  Repiiblic,  was  the  first  to  capitulate. 
Rhetoric  was  not  at  first  formally  admitted  as  a  part 
of  the  curriculum  taught  in  the  Academy  ;  but,  about 
the  middle  of  the  third  century  B.C.,  Arcesilaus, 
founder  of  what  is  known  as  the  Middle  Academy, 
introduced  a  new  method  of  teaching  philosophy. 
'  He  was  the  first ',  says  Diogenes  Laertius,  '  to 
debate  both  sides  of  a  disputed  question.'  ^  Cicero 
gives  a  more  detailed  account :  '  Arcesilaus  intro- 
1  Diog.  Laert.  iv.  6,  28  ;  von  Amim,  p.  85. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  73 

duced  the  custom  that  his  pupils  should  not  ask  him 
questions,  but  should  themselves  expose  their  own 
opinion.  When  they  had  spoken,  he  replied  ;  and 
his  pupils  then  defended  their  opinion  as  best  they 
could.  In  other  schools  the  pupils  put  their  question 
and  then  remained  silent :  a  practice  which  is  now 
observed  even  in  the  Academy.'  ^  It  was,  as  Cicero 
notes,  a  reversion  to  the  Socratic  method  ;  but  it 
came  at  a  time  when  scepticism  had  taken  the  place 
of  Plato's  metaphysical  certitude,  and  its  aim  was 
to  give  dialectical  skill  rather  than  serious  scientific 
knowledge. 

Arcesilaus  did  not  go  without  a  successor  :  for  the 
most  famous  teacher  of  the  later  Academy — and  at 
the  same  time  the  most  daringly  sceptical  of  later 
Greek  philosophers — was  trained  in  the  school 
under  this  new  system.  Carneades  was,  beyond 
question,  an  original  and  powerful  thinker  ;  but  his 
fame  was  mainly  due  to  the  amazing  brilliance  of  his 
dialectics,  and  his  influence  went  far  beyond  the 
teaching  of  philosophy  properly  so  called.  Students 
of  rhetoric  flocked  to  hear  his  lectures,  and  to  study 
his  oratorical  technique  ;  ^  and  it  is  characteristic 
that  the  lectures  which  he  delivered  in  Rome  during 
the  embassy  of  155  B.C.  were  remembered  chiefly  for 
their  brilliant  oratorical  style. ^  The  comparison  with 
Hume's  influence  on  modern  philosophy  is  irresistible. 
Just  as  the  Scotch  philosopher's  agreeably  literary 
scepticism  was  a  powerful  factor  in  the  thought  of 

1  de  Fin.  ii.  2  ;  de  Or.  iii.  80.  2  j^^og  L^ert.  iv.  9,  62. 

3  Gell.  vi  (vii),  14,  8-10. 


S029 


K 


74  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

the  eighteenth  century,  so  Carneades  exercised  an 
abiding  influence  on  the  new  Graeco-Roman  culture 
which  developed  during  his  lifetime. 

Philo  of  Larissa  was  a  philosopher  after  the 
manner  of  Carneades  :  where  possible,  he  pushed  the 
new  tendencies  to  their  logical  conclusion.^  An  open 
sceptic  in  his  metaphysical  teaching,  he  based  what- 
ever certitude  he  admitted  on  the  testimony  of  moral 
conscience  ;  and  his  action  in  teaching  rhetoric  as 
well  as  philosophy  was  a  further  break  with  the 
traditions  of  his  school.  Cicero,  who  had  no  meta- 
physical scruples,  soon  came  under  the  spell  of 
Philo' s  persuasive  eloquence.  Philo  was  indeed  just 
the  man  to  impress  the  young  Poman  student. 
Eager,  quick-witted,  impressionable,  with  a  passion 
for  study,  Cicero  was  above  all  else  a  lover  of  the 
beauties  of  sound  and  language  ;  and  Philo  was  both 
an  orator  and  a  philosopher.  New  horizons  began 
to  open  before  the  boy.  Greek  literature,  Greek 
rhetoric,  Greek  philosophy  ;  all  these  were  seen  to 
be  necessary,  if  he  was  to  achieve  his  youthful  ideal 
and  become  the  Roman  Demosthenes.  The  brief 
narrative  of  the  Brutus  recalls  those  early  days  : 

'  During  all  this  time  [he  is  speaking  of  the  years  86-83  B.C.] 
I  spent  my  days  and  nights  in  the  study  of  all  forms  of  science. 
Diodotus  the  Stoic  was  my  tutor,  and  he  gave  me  lessons  in  other 
subjects,  but  above  all  in  dialectics  ;  these  I  learnt  to  know  as 
a  form  of  eloquence,  closely-knit  and  compact.  I  was  heart  and 
Boul  at  my  work  under  this  master,  and  his  programme  of  study 
was  wide  and  varied  ;  yet  I  let  no  day  pass  without  some  practice 
in  oratory.     Every  day  I  declaimed  a  piece  with  M.  Piso  or 

1  Zeller,  iii.  I,  pp.  609  foil.  ;  Susemihl,  ii,  pp.  279  foil. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  75 

Q.  Pompeius  or  some  other  friend  ;  often  in  Latin,  but  more 
often  in  Greek — partly  because  Greek,  with  its  greater  richness 
in  rhetorical  figures,  is  an  excellent  training  for  Latin  oratory, 
partly  because  I  could  not  hope  to  profit  by  the  lessons  and 
advice  of  the  best  Greek  teachers  unless  I  leamt  to  speak  in 
Greek.'  ^ 

That  last  sentence  reveals  one  of  Cicero's  day- 
dreams. No  young  student  of  his  age  and  tempera- 
ment could  attend  Philo's  lectures  in  Rome,  and  not 
plan  a  tour  through  the  schools  of  Greece  and  Asia 
Minor.  For  Athens  was  not  the  only  centre  of 
education  in  Hellenistic  Greece,  and  Cicero  was  an 
eclectic  by  nature  before  ever  he  studied  under  Philo 
and  Diodotus.  But  the  Mithridatic  war  made  all 
such  plans  impossible  until  Sulla's  victorious  return 
in  83  B.C. ;  and  by  that  time  Cicero,  in  needy  circum- 
stances and  greedy  of  fame,  was  eager  to  start  his 
career  as  a  pleader  in  the  forum.  During  the 
dictatorship  of  Sulla  he  made  his  first  appearance 
in  public,  and  for  the  next  two  years  (81-79  B.C.)  his 
name  was  gradually  coming  into  prominence  in  the 
Roman  law  courts.  But  Cicero  soon  learnt  that  his 
delivery  was  faulty,  and  his  friends  urged  that  he 
must  learn  to  speak  in  public  without  endangering 
his  health.^  The  upshot  was  that  in  79  B.C.  he  broke 
off  his  practice  in  the  forum  at  the  age  of  twenty- 
seven,  and  left  Rome  for  his  famous  tour  through 
Greece  and  Asia  Minor.  The  details  of  that  tour 
show  how  rich  an  inheritance  Greek  scholars  were 
just  then  transmitting  to  the  cultured  classes  of 
Roman  society. 

1  Brut.  308-10.  2  if^i^^  313. 


76  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

From  Rome  Cicero  went  to  Athens,  where  he  spent 
six  months.  Here  he  studied  philosophy  in  the 
lecture-halls  of  the  Academy ;  but  Philo  was  no 
longer  there  to  welcome  his  former  pupil.  Antiochus 
of  Ascalon,  the  new  head  of  the  school,  had  been 
Philo' s  great  rival  during  the  latter' s  lifetime,  and, 
though  an  eclectic  himself,  was  a  declared  opponent 
of  Philo' s  scepticism.^  His  own  system  was  largely 
influenced  by  Stoic  thought,  and  Cicero,  who  speaks 
of  Antiochus  with  great  respect,^  must  have  found 
his  lectures  congenial  to  his  own  temperament  and 
early  training.  Antiochus,  who  made  much  of  the 
Platonic  tradition,  taught  only  philosophy  in  his 
school,  and  Cicero  had  to  go  elsewhere  for  his  lessons 
in  rhetoric.  At  Athens  he  studied  rhetoric  under 
Demetrius  of  Syria  ;  but  the  six  months  of  his  stay 
there  were  given  mainly  to  philosophy.  Then  came 
a  tour  through  the  province  of  Asia,  and  Cicero  gives 
the  names  of  three  or  four  professors  of  rhetoric 
whose  lectures  he  attended.^  But  Rhodes  was  the 
culminating  point  in  Cicero's  experience.  Here  he 
met,  though  not  for  the  first  time,  two  men  whose 
influence  on  his  career  as  an  orator  and  philosophic 
writer  was  only  equalled  by  that  of  Crassus  and 
Philo.  Molo  of  Rhodes  became  Cicero's  tutor  in 
rhetoric,  and  helped  more  than  any  one  else  to 
correct  the  redundancies  and  looseness  of  Cicero's 
early  style  :   a  debt  which  Cicero  never  forgot.*    And 

1  Zeller,  iii.  1,  pp.  618  foil. 

2  Acad.  i.  13  ;  ii.  113  ;  de  Leg.  i.  54  ;  Brut.  315. 

3  ibid.  315-16.  *  ibid.  312,  316  ;  Plut.  Cic.  4. 


UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA  77 

it  must  have  been  at  Rhodes,  though  Cicero  omits 
this  detail  in  his  Brutus,  that  he  studied  under 
Posidonius,  the  famous  Stoic  philosopher  and  uni- 
versaUst,  whom  Cicero  elsewhere  names  as  one  of  the 
few  men  who  did  most  for  his  education.^  Posidonius, 
though  nominally  a  Stoic  and  a  disciple  of  Panaetius, 
was  as  eclectic  in  his  theory  as  either  Philo  or 
Antiochus  ;  and  a  brilliant  literary  stylist  into  the 
bargain.  But  it  was  his  universal  knowledge  which 
most  impressed  his  contemporaries ;  and  it  is  no 
small  claim  for  one  man  that  he  opened  up  new 
horizons  of  thought  and  learning  for  both  Cicero  and 
Julius  Caesar  .- 

Cicero  came  back  from  his  tour,  as  he  himself  puts 
it,  '  not  merely  with  added  experience,  but  almost 
another  man'.^  His  student  years  were  over,  and 
Roman  literature  was  henceforth  to  be  enriched  by 
the  full  harvest  of  his  maturity.  But  one  permanent 
memorial  of  his  student  years  still  survives.  In  the 
preface  to  his  de  Oratore  Cicero  speaks  of  some 
'  school-boy  notes  which  I  published,  rough  and  in- 
complete though  they  were,  when  I  was  still  little 
more  than  a  boy  '  .*  These  '  school-boy  notes  '  are 
the  de  Inventione,  which  Cicero  published  when  he 
was  still  a  student  of  rhetoric,  most  probably  between 
the  years  85  and  80  B.C. ^  As  a  text-book  of  rhetoric 
the  work  is  a  failure.  Cicero  was  not  yet  sufficiently 
master  of  his  subject  to  do  more  than  translate  into 

^  de  Nat.  deor.  i.  6  ;  de  Fato,  5  ;  Tusc.  ii.  6L 

^  See  in  general  Zeller,  iii.  1,  p.  588  ;  Susemihl,  ii,  p.  284. 

3  Brut.  316.  *  de  Or.  i.  5.  ^  gchanz,  i.  2,  p.  467. 


78  UNDER  MARIUS  AND  SULLA 

Latin  the  precepts  of  his  Greek  teachers,  and  his 
work  suffers  from  comparison  with  the  ad  Herennium 
which  seems  to  have  been  published  about  the  same 
time.  The  author  of  the  anonymous  treatise,  who- 
ever he  was,  had  a  clearer  brain  than  Cicero  had  yet 
developed,  and  his  text-book,  apart  from  questions 
of  style,  is  in  every  way  superior  to  Cicero's  youthful 
effort.  But  the  de  Inventione  is  interesting  as  a 
promise  of  the  future.  Its  preface,  which  Cicero 
seems  to  have  borrowed  from  Posidonius,^  deals  with 
the  time-honoured  controversy  between  philosophy 
and  rhetoric.  Thirty  years  later  Cicero  pubUshed 
a  dialogue  which  more  than  atones  for  the  faults  of 
his  earlier  essay,  and  states  in  eloquent  language  the 
solution  to  which  his  own  experience  and  personal 
study  had  led  him. 

^  Gerhausser,   p.   29  ;    Philippson  in  Fleckeisen's   Jahrhuchy 
vol.  cxxxiii  (1886),  pp.  417  foil. 


VI 

THE  '  DE  ORATORE  ' 

*  Mea  quidem  sententia  nemo  poterit  esse  omni  laude  cumu- 
latus  orator,  nisi  erit  omnium  rerum  magnarum  atque  artium 
scientiam  consecutus.'     Cic.  de  Or.  i.  20. 

§  1 .  Purpose  of  the  '  de  Oratore  ' . 
In  a  dedicatory  letter  to  his  brother  Quintus,  Cicero 
alleges  as  an  excuse  for  publishing  the  de  Oratore 
his  anxiety  to  efface  the  memory  of  his  youthful 
de  Inventione}  The  motive  was  natural  enough  : 
for  Cicero  was  now  at  the  height  of  his  fame,  and  the 
earlier  work  was  unworthy  of  his  reputation  as 
leader  of  the  Roman  forum.  But  there  were  other 
personal  motives,  to  which  he  is  careful  not  to  allude. 
The  de  Oratore  was  published  in  55  B.C.,  two  years 
after  his  spectacular  return  from  exile  .^  Cicero  was 
at  the  height  of  his  intellectual  powers,  and  his 
ambition  was  as  restless  as  ever.  But  politics  were 
not  going  as  the  orator  had  hoped.  His  enemies  were 
numerous  and  strong  enough  to  keep  his  personal 
influence  behind  the  barrier  of  their  opposition  ;  and 
the  triumphs  of  his  consulate  were  already  remote. 
Ten  years  later  Cicero  found  a  refuge  from  similar 
troubles  in  the  study  of  philosophy.  Now  he  turns 
to  the  study  of  rhetoric  and  his  old  interest  in  the 

1  de  Or.  i.  5. 

2  ad  Att.  iv.  13,  2  ;  ad  Fam.  i.  9,  23  ;  Schanz,  i.  2,  p.  297. 


80  THE  DE  ORATORE 

problems  of  education.  But  the  de  Orator e  is  more 
than  a  manual  of  rhetoric  or  an  essay  on  higher 
education.  It  is  full  of  Cicero's  political  and  intellec- 
tual idealism ;  and  its  dramatic  background  is 
deliberately  chosen  to  emphasize  the  orator's  con- 
nexion with  the  traditions  of  Scipionic  Rome.  Cicero 
was  already  planning  the  de  Bepuhlica  with  its 
Scipionic  reminiscences  ;  ^  and  the  two  dialogues 
were  meant  to  convey,  at  a  critical  period  in  the 
orator's  career,  his  mature  views  on  Graeco-Roman 
literature,  philosophy,  and  politics. 

Less  powerful,  perhaps,  as  a  stimulus  to  publica- 
tion, but  none  the  less  important  in  the  psychology 
of  so  human  a  character,  were  the  domestic  reasons 
which  in  55  B.C.  helped  to  renew  Cicero's  interest  in 
the  problem  of  education.  Cicero's  young  son 
Marcus  was  at  this  time  ten  years  old,  his  nephew 
Quintus  a  year  older ;  and  the  orator  had  made 
himseK  responsible  for  the  education  of  the  two  boys. 
There  had  been  difficulties  about  a  suitable  tutor,^ 
and  in  54  B.C.  Cicero  talks  of  supplementing  the 
tutor's  classes  with  lessons  of  his  own.^  The  Parti- 
tiones  oratoriaey  published  in  that  year  or  a  little 
later,  are  a  sort  of  rhetorical  catechism  for  the  two 
boys,  and  show  how  practical  the  orator  could  be  in 
his  theory  of  education.  The  de  Orator e,  written 
a  year  earlier,  shows  the  same  preoccupation  with  the 
studies  which  young  Marcus  and  Quintus  were  just 

1  ad  Q.  fr.  ii.  12  (14),  1  ;  iii.  5,  1  ;  Schanz,  i.  2,  p.  342. 

2  ad  Att.  iv.  15,  10  ;  vi.  1,  12  ;  viii.  4,  1  ;  ad  Q.  fr.  iii.  1,  14. 
^  ibid.  iii.  3,  4. 


THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE  81 

beginning.  Cicero  liimseK  owed  much  to  his  father, 
and  it  is  pleasant  to  think  that  the  two  boys  were 
in  his  mind  when  he  began  work  on  the  dialogue 
which  was  his  favourite  to  the  end/  Nor  did  his 
interest  in  the  education  of  his  son  end  with  these 
classes  in  rhetoric.  Ten  years  after  the  publication 
of  the  de  Oratore  he  dedicated  his  de  Officiis  to 
Marcus,  then  a  student  of  philosophy  at  Athens.- 

Planned  as  an  essay  on  the  art  of  oratory,  Cicero's 
dialogue  is  naturally  more  concerned  with  rhetoric 
than  with  any  other  subject.  But  the  de  Oratore  is 
far  more  than  a  mere  manual  of  rhetoric.  With 
amazing  literary  skill  Cicero  has  contrived  to  weave 
into  the  structure  of  his  dialogue  all  that  he  had 
learnt  from  his  early  Roman  patrons,  from  Diodotus, 
Philo,  and  Antiochus,  and  from  the  experience  of 
thirty  years  in  the  forum .  The  result  is  a  masterpiece 
which  may  not  unfairly  be  called  the  orator's  pro- 
gramme of  educational  reform  :  an  appeal  to  the 
younger  generation  to  imitate  the  example  which  he 
had  set  them,  and  to  aim  at  a  wider  and  nobler 
culture  than  was  usual  in  contemporary  Roman 
society.  Later  Cicero  developed  his  programme  in 
the  Brutus,  the  Orator,  and  the  lost  Hortensius  ;  but 
the  de  Oratore  contains  the  substance  of  their 
doctrine,  and  is  the  fullest  statement  of  Cicero's 
educational  theory.  Nor  has  any  other  of  his  dia- 
logues had  such  permanent  influence  on  the  history 
of  Graeco-Roman  and  European  culture. 

1  ad  Att.  xiii.  19,  4.  2  ^^  qjj  j   j^ 


82  THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE 

§  2.     The  '  artes  liberales  '. 

In  his  preface  to  the  second  book  of  the  de  Oratore 
Cicero  sums  up  the  education  usually  given  in  the 
Roman  schools  of  his  day  under  a  convenient  formula: 
puerilis  institution  His  own  theory  of  education 
includes  a  supplementary  course  of  higher  studies, 
which  he  elsewhere  terms  politior  humanitas?  The 
division  is  clear  and  logical,  and  it  will  be  useful  to 
analyse  these  two  portions  of  his  programme  sepa- 
rately. But  in  practice  there  was  no  hard  and  fast 
division,  for  the  recent  break  with  tradition  had 
thrown  all  Roman  education  into  confusion.^  Many 
of  the  orators  whom  Cicero  criticizes  in  the  Brutus 
had  received  no  better  education  than  the  puerilis 
institutio  as  a  preparation  for  public  life.  Others, 
like  Cicero  himself,  had  completed  their  studies  in 
the  intervals  of  work  in  the  forum.  It  was  only  the 
few  who  passed  regularly  from  one  school  to  another, 
and  completed  their  early  education  by  higher 
studies  similar  to  those  which  Cicero  recommends. 

The  de  Oratore  has  nothing  to  say  about  elementary 
schools  ;  and  the  omission  is  characteristic.  A  Greek 
theorist  would  have  detailed  an  elaborate  scheme  of 
education  for  the  young,  very  much  on  the  lines  of 
Quintilian's  programme  in  the  Institutio  oratoria. 
But  Cicero  was  too  much  of  a  Roman  to  believe  in 
such  minutiae.  In  theory,  at  least,  he  would  have 
agreed  with  Cato  that  the  education  of  a  child  is 
primarily  the  parent's  duty  ;  and  in  the  Tusculan 
Disputations  the  parent  is  named  after  the  nurse  and 

1  de  Or.  ii.  1  ;  iii.  48,  125.  ^  ^j^i^  jj  72.  ^  ibid.  i.  3. 


THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE  83 

before  the  schoolmaster  in  a  list  of  those  who  influ- 
ence children  by  their  teaching  and  example.^  The 
orator's  own  practice  was  somewhat  different :  force 
of  circumstances  was  breaking  up  the  old  Roman 
tradition  of  home-life  and  parental  education.  Again 
and  again  in  his  private  correspondence  Cicero's  love 
for  his  children  reveals  itself  in  some  trifling  incident.^ 
'  The  children  are  well ',  he  writes  to  his  brother  in 
54  B.C.,  'they  are  busy  at  their  lessons,  are  well 
taught  and  love  us  and  one  another.'  ^  And  again  : 
'  R-eading  and  study  are  my  delight,  and  the  quiet 
of  my  villa  and,  above  all,  the  children.'  *  But 
Cicero  never  tried  to  teach  his  children  as  Cato  taught 
his  son.  It  was  only  when  their  study  of  rhetoric  was 
well  advanced  that  he  thought  of  supplementing  the 
teaching  of  Panaetius  by  some  classes  of  his  own  : 
even  then  he  was  afraid  that  his  more  philosophic 
theory  of  rhetoric  would  be  too  much  for  the  boys. 
'  Your  boy  likes  declamation ',  he  writes  to  his 
brother  ;  '  I  was  that  way  myself  once,  and  shall  let 
him  follow  in  my  footsteps  :  I  am  sure  that  he  will 
reach  the  same  goal.  But  some  day  when  I  get  him 
alone  in  the  country  I  shall  teach  him  my  own 
theory  and  practice.'  ^  It  is  all  a  pleasant  reminder 
of  the  days  of  Cato  and  Aemilius  Paulus  ;  but  the 
busy  orator  has  only  odd  moments  to  spare  for  his 
interest  in  the  two  boys. 

Cicero's  real  interest  in  education  begins  with  the 

1  Tusc.  iii.  2  ;  de  Leg.  i.  47. 

2  See  in  general  Schneidewin,  pp.  185  foil. 

3  ad  Q.  Jr.  Hi.  3,  1.  «  ibid.  in.  9,  2. 
5  ibid.  iii.  3,  4  ;  cf.  ibid.  ii.  12  (14),  2  ;  iii.  1,  7. 


84  THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE 

work  usually  done  in  the  schools  of  literature  and 
rhetoric  ;  and  here  terminology  is  important.  Roman 
usage  distinguished  clearly  between  the  elementary 
schoolmaster  {ludi  7nagister  or  litterator,  in  Greek 
ypafifxaTia-T-qs) ,  who  gave  lessons  in  reading  and  writing, 
and  the  teacher  of  literature  (grammaticus,  a  term 
borrowed  directly  from  the  Greek  ypa/x/u-art/cds)  who 
taught  prose-composition  and  poetry  as  well  as 
grammar.^  The  Greek  name  shows  that  these 
teachers  of  literature  and  their  schools  were  foreign 
to  Roman  tradition,  and  Suetonius  dates  the  first 
schools  of  literature  in  Rome  from  the  middle  of  the 
second  century  b.c.^  But  the  de  Orator e  makes  it 
plain  that  literature  was  only  one  of  many  subjects 
taught  at  Rome  on  the  model  of  Greek  school-pro- 
grammes. In  his  preface  to  the  first  book  Cicero 
enumerates  the  various  artes  taught  in  the  schools  of 
his  day  :  philosophy,  mathematics,  music,  literature, 
and  rhetoric.^  Elsewhere  geometry  and  astronomy 
are  expressly  mentioned  as  part  of  the  mathematical 
programme,^  thus  completing  the  seven  artes  liberales 
of  the  Middle  Ages.  Similar  lists  of  the  artes  are  to 
be  found  in  contemporary  Graeco-Roman  literature. 
Varro  included  nine  in  his  Disciplinae  :  grammar  (or 
literature,  for  the  term  covers  both  subjects), 
dialectics,  rhetoric,  geometry,  arithmetic,  astronomy, 
music,  medicine,  architecture.^  Vitruvius,  writing 
for  architects,  gives  literature,  drawing,  geometry, 

1  Suet.  Gram.  4  ;  Sandys,  i,  pp.  6-11  ;  Girard,  p.  224. 

2  Suet.  Gram.  2.  ^  ^g  q^  j  8-12. 
*  ibid.  i.  187  ;  iii.  127.                        ^  Schanz,  i.  2,  p.  438. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  85 

optics,  arithmetic,  history,  philosophy,  music,  medi- 
cine, law,  and  astronomy — a  strange  medley  !  ^ 
Seneca,  who  uses  the  term  artes  liherales,  gives  only 
literature,  music,  geometry,  arithmetic,  and  astro- 
nomy ;  but  he  has  his  own  reasons  for  omitting 
rhetoric  and  philosophy  from  the  list."  And  Galen, 
writing  for  doctors  in  the  second  century  a.d.,  gives 
medicine,  rhetoric,  music,  geometry,  arithmetic, 
dialectics,  astronomy,  literature,  and  law.^  Galen 
adds,  as  optional  subjects,  sculpture  and  drawing;  but 
Seneca  expressly  excludes  these  two  artes  from  his  list.* 

These  lists,  coming  from  such  various  sources, 
prove  the  existence  of  a  regular  curriculum  of  studies, 
not  yet  clearly  defined  in  all  its  parts,  but  certainly 
including  literature,  rhetoric,  dialectics,  arithmetic, 
geometry,  astronomy,  and  music.  Seneca  tells  us 
that  these  subjects  were  called  artes  liberates  in 
Latin,  and  iyKVKkioL  in  Greek .^  Cicero  does  not 
mention  the  Greek  term,  but  frequently  speaks  of 
artes  liberales  or  liheralis  disciplina  ;  ®  and  once,  in 
a  characteristically  Roman  phrase,  of  honae  artes. "^ 
Vitruvius  uses  a  curious  phrase,  half  Greek,  half 
Latin  :  encyclios  disciplina  ;  ^  and  Quintilian  gives 
the  proper  Greek  form,  which  is  also  found  in  Strabo 
and  Plutarch  :    ey/cv/cXios  TratSeta.^ 

The  later  history  of   these  artes  liberales  is  well 

1  Vitruv.  i.  1,  3.         ^  gg^.  Epp.  88,  1-20  ;  see  below,  p.  179. 
3  Galen,  Protr.  14,  39.        *  Sen.  Ep2J.  88,  18.         ^  ibid.  23. 
«  de  Or.  i.  72  ;  ii.  162  ;  iii.  127.  '  ibid.  i.  158. 

^  Vitruv.  i.  1,  11  ;  vi.  praef.  4. 

»  Quint,  i.  10,  1;  Strabo,  i,  p.  13;  Plut.  de  Mus.  1135  d  ; 
Ps.-Plut.  deLib.  ed.l  c  ;  see  also  Colson's  note  on  Quint,  i.  10,  1. 


86  THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE 

known.  Martianus  Capella  cast  Varro's  Disciplinae 
into  allegorical  form,  and  this  curious  text-book  was 
the  main  source  from  v/hich  the  Middle  Ages  derived 
their  theory  of  artes  liberates}  But  the  earlier 
history  of  the  artes  is  more  obscure,  and  takes  us 
back  once  more  to  Aristotle.  In  classical  Greek 
iyKVKkioq  means  '  ordinary  '  or  '  of  everyday  occur- 
rence '  as  well  as  '  cyclic  ' }  Aristotle  frequently  uses 
the  word  in  this  sense ;  ^  but  once  or  twice  we  find 
the  phrase  to.  ey/cv/cXta  or  m  eyKVKkia  (^tXocroc^Ty/Aara, 
where  we  should  expect  the  more  usual  phrase  to. 
l^oiTepiKa  .*  According  to  GelUus,^  Aristotle's  '  exo- 
teric '  programme  of  studies  was  designed  for  men  of 
ordinary  education,  and  included  dialectics,  rhetoric, 
and  political  theory  :  roughly  speaking,  the  matter 
included  by  Aristotle  in  his  Organon,  Rhetoric, 
Poetics,  Politics,  and  Economics.  This  programme 
differs  considerably  from  the  iyKVK\io<i  TratSeta 
described  by  Cicero,  Varro,  and  later  Roman 
writers  ;  but  the  explanation  is  simple.  Evidence 
for  the  work  done  in  the  schools  of  Hellenistic  Greece 
is  unusually  abundant,  and  we  know  that  a  child's 
education  was  divided  among  a  whole  series  of 
teachers.''    First  came  the  elementary  schoolmaster 

1  Sandys,  i,  pp.  241  foil. 

^  See  Stephanus,  s.v.,  and  (less  fully)  Liddell  and  Scott,  s.v. 

3  Ar.  Pol.  i.  1255b  25  ;  ii.  1263a  21  ;  1269b  35  ;  cf.  Isocr.  176  c. 

4  Ar.  Eth.  Nic.  i.  1096a  3  ;  de  Caelo,  i.  279a  30  ;  Bonitz,  Index 
Aristotelicus,  p.  105a  27. 

s  Gell.  XX.  5  ;  Willmann,  pp.  50  foil. 

^  See   in   general    [Plato],    Axiochus,    366  d-367  a  ;     Girard, 
pp.  100  foil. ;  Walden,  pp.  18  foil. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  87 

(ypa/i/xartcrrTy?),  who  taught  the  child  to  read,  write, 
and  count,  perhaps  also  to  draw.  Side  by  side  with 
these  lessons  went  classes  in  music,  given  by  a  special 
music-master  (/xovo-tKo?),  and  gymnastic  classes  given 
by  a  professional  teacher  (TratSor/DiyS-^?).  Somewhat 
later,  about  the  age  of  twelve,  the  boy  went  to  a 
school  of  literature,  where  he  was  taught  his  Homer 
and  poetry  in  general  by  the  teacher  of  literature 
{KpiTLKoq  or  ypctixixaTLKo^)  ;  and  at  the  same  time  he 
began  the  study  of  more  advanced  mathematics 
under  a  special  mathematical  master  {yeofieTprjs). 

The  connexion  between  these  separate  schools  and 
the  later  eyKv/cXto?  TratSeta  is  plain.  The  latter 
programme  of  studies  is  simply  a  combination  of 
the  ordinary  education  given  to  Greek  school-boys 
with  the  more  elementary  portion  of  Aristotle's 
'  exoteric '  programme ;  and  the  Greek  word  ey/cv/cXto? 
accurately  describes  an  education  which  was  specially 
designed  for  the  man  in  the  street.  When  and  where 
the  various  artes  enumerated  by  Cicero,  Varro,  Vitru- 
vius,  and  Seneca  came  to  be  recognized  as  parts  of  the 
ey/cv/cXto9  vratSeta  must  remain  uncertain ;  but  the  name 
or  its  equivalent  (ra  iyKVKXia  fiad-qfiaTa)  is  common 
in  Hellenistic  literature.  Diogenes  Laertius,  for 
example,  tells  us  that  the  Cynics  rejected  to,  iyKVKXia 
fxaOrfixaTa,  and  that  Zeno  considered  the  iyKVKkio<; 
TraiSeCa  useless  :  Chrysippus,  on  the  other  hand,  said 
that  ra  iyKVKXia  fxadrjfjiaTa  were  very  useful.^  Similarly 
Athenaeus  quotes  two  Hellenistic  historians  for  the 
statement  that  Alexandria  had  educated  both  Greeks 
1  Diog.  Laert.  vi.  103  ;  vii.  32,  129. 


88  THE  DE  ORATORE 

and  '  barbarians  '  (this  probably  means  the  Romans) 
when  the  iyKVKXtoq  iraiSeia  was  on  the  decUne/ 
Seneca  gives  us  the  connecting  link  :  for  he  tells  us 
that  Posidonius  classified  the  arts  under  four  heads. 
First  place  was  given  to  the  arts  which  teach  virtue  ; 
second  place  to  the  arts  '  which  the  Greeks  call 
ey/cv/cXtot  and  the  Romans  liberales  '  ;  third  place 
to  the  '  frivolous  '  arts  of  dancing,  singing,  painting, 
and  sculpture  ;  and  fourth  place  to  all  the  arts  that 
involve  manual  labour.^  This  classification  proves 
that  the  '  encyclic  '  programme  was  well  established 
by  the  end  of  the  second  century  B.C.,  and  throws 
a  curious  light  on  the  classical  use  of  the  word  '  art  * 
(ars  or  rex^^)  •  ^^  Cicero  deals  with  the  various  artes 
throughout  his  de  Oratore,  one  last  digression  must 
be  pardoned  by  way  of  preface  to  his  educational 
theory. 

Modern  education  is  so  apt  to  measure  knowledge 
by  the  mere  accumulation  of  facts  that  we  have 
ceased  to  regard  the  principle  of  specialization,  even 
in  schools,  as  anything  abnormal.  Greek  principles 
of  education  were  very  different.  Even  in  the  most 
strictly  scientific  period  of  Hellenistic  scholarship, 
specialization  was  unknown  in  the  schools  of  Greece : 
knowledge,  far  from  being  an  accumulation  of  facts, 
was  essentially  an  art,  first  studied  in  its  general  prin- 
ciples and  then  applied  in  detail.  Cicero's  theory  of 
scientific  knowledge  is  borrowed  directly  from  Greek 
sources  :    for  him  no  true  knowledge,  whether  of 

^  Athen.  iv,  p.  184  b. 

2  Sen.  Epp.  88,  21-3  ;  Gerhausser,  pp.  45  foil. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  89 

music,  literature,  rhetoric,  or  philosophy,  is  possible 
unless  directed  by  the  principles  of  an  '  art ' }  Each 
science  has  its  own  '  art ',  framed  by  human  reason 
and  binding  together  the  details  of  knowledge  in 
a  single,  coherent  system  ;  and  the  different  '  arts ' 
are  themselves  parts  of  a  single,  vast  system  of  human 
knowledge  which  the  philosophic  mind  can  study  in 
its  first  principles.^  An  example  will  make  this 
concept  more  clear.  Cicero  complains  that  Roman 
law  is  not  yet  an  '  art ',  because  it  lacks  systematic 
form  :  he  himself  was  in  favour  of  reducing  its 
endless  details  to  a  few  general  principles,  easily 
learnt  and  easily  applied.'^  So,  too,  ancient  text- 
books of  a  particular  science  are  usually  called  artes 
or  ri^vai.  Livy  speaks  of  an  ars  for  the  guidance  of 
priests  in  their  sacrificial  rites  ;  *  ars  grammatica  and 
ars  rhetorica  are  both  familiar  terms  ;  ^  and  Cicero 
even  compares  the  writings  of  Aristotle  to  a  sys- 
tematic ars  of  philosophy.*'  This  use  of  the  word 
TexvT]  is  a  good  example  of  the  instinct  for  order  and 
harmony  which  guided  the  Greeks  in  their  intellectual 
activities  as  well  as  in  their  art.  For  the  aim  of  the 
ey/cv/cXto?  TratSeta  was  not  to  give  every  student  a 
specialist's  knowledge  of  detail  (though  detail 
abounds  in  the  ancient  text-books),  but  rather  to 
put  him  in  possession  of  such  general  principles  as 
would  later  help  him  to  a  proper  use  of  the  knowledge 

1  de  Or.  i.  92  ;   Brut.  152  ;   de  Off.  ii.  6  ;   Schneidewin,  p.  309. 

2  de  Or.  i.  186-8  ;  iii.  21  ;   de  Nat.  deor.  i.  9. 

3  de  Or.  i.  190  ;  de  Leg.  ii.  47.  ^  Livy,  xxv.  1,  12. 

5  ad  Her.  iv.  17  ;  Quint,  i,  Praef.  23  ;  5,  54  ;  ii.  17,  2  ;  iii.  1,  1 ; 
Bomer,  pp.  12  foil.  ^  Acad.  i.  17. 

3029  M 


90  THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE 

he  had  acquired.  As  Cicero  puts  it  in  his  de  Oratore  : 
'  It  is  one  thing  to  be  a  speciahst  {artijex)  in  any 
branch  of  science  (ars)  ;  quite  another  to  know 
enough  for  the  ordinary  purposes  of  Ufe.'  ^ 

Cicero's  puerilis  institutio  may  be  roughly  identified 
with  the  Greek  eyKu/cXio?  TratSeta  with  the  exception 
of  philosophy  :  he  himself  treats  the  term  as  sjmony- 
mous  with  a  '  liberal  education  '  .^  But  Rome  always 
modified  what  she  borrowed,  and  the  Roman 
doctrina  liber  alls  has  some  significant  omissions. 
Cicero  himself  remarks  that  his  fellow-countrymen 
had  little  time  for  poetry  and  music,  and  confined 
mathematics  to  the  practical  work  of  counting  and 
measurement.^  Horace  says  the  same  of  Roman 
mathematics  ;  *  and  Cornelius  Nepos,  one  of  Cicero's 
personal  friends  and  himself  a  most  cultured  man, 
tells  us  that  music  was  always  considered  beneath 
the  dignity  of  a  Roman  citizen,  whilst  dancing  was 
looked  on  as  a  disgrace.^  Here  and  there  we  find 
mention  of  Romans  interested  in  mathematical 
theory  ;  but  they  are  noted  as  exceptions  to  the 
general  rule.*^  And  the  name  Fabius  Pictor  proves 
that  a  Roman  with  a  taste  for  painting  was  an 
eccentric,  who  deserved  special  notice  and  even  a 
special  name.'  Sulla  liked  music  and  could  sing 
well — an  oddity  which  is  duly  noted  by  Plutarch  and 

1  de  Or.  i.  248  ;  iii.  86.  2  ^^  ^si.  125. 

3  Tusc.  i.  3-5.  "  Hor.  Ars  poet.  323  foil. 

5  Com.  Nep.  Epam.  1,  2  ;   cf.  Macrob.  Sat.  iii,  14,  7. 

«  de  Off.  i.  19  ;  Brut.  175  ;  de  Sen.  49  ;  ad  Att.  xiv.  12,  3. 

7  Tusc.  i.  4  ;  Pliny,  N.H.  xxxv.  19-23. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  91 

Macrobius  ;  ^  but  Cicero  makes  Crassus  give  the 
true  Roman  opinion  of  such  arts  in  the  de  Oratore. 
*  He  sings  when  asked ',  says  Crassus  of  one  of 
Scipio's  friends,  '  he  is  the  father  of  a  family  and 
a  Roman  knight ;  but  as  a  boy  he  learnt  what  is 
proper.'  ^ 

Latin  school-terminology  shows  how  little  Roman 
and  Greek  interest  in  the  artes  coincided.  For  many 
of  the  subjects  regularly  taught  in  Roman  schools, 
Greek  names  were  retained  to  the  end.  Grammatice^ 
rhetorice,  musice,  mathesis,  geometres,  rhetor,  philoso- 
phus  :  these  are  all  terms  borrowed  directly  from  the 
language  of  the  ey/cuK\io9  rratSeta,  and  Quintilian  holds 
that  most  of  them  had  no  proper  Latin  equivalent.^ 
Suetonius,  who  was  interested  in  the  question  and 
quotes  Cornelius  Nepos  and  Orbilius,  holds  that  littera- 
tus  was  at  one  time  considered  the  correct  Latin  equiva- 
lent for  'ypaiMixaTLK6<s,^  and  Quintilian  gives  litteratura 
as  a  translation  of  grammatice.^  Cicero,  who  uses 
rhetor  freely  in  his  other  works,  is  careful  to  use  the 
term  magister  dicendi  in  his  De  oratore,  and  even 
apologizes  for  the  occasional  use  of  rhetor.^  The  scene 
of  the  de  Oratore  is  laid  in  91  B.C.,  when  Cicero  was 
a  boy,  and  it  would  seem  that  the  orator  could 
remember  a  time  when  Roman  purists  objected  to 
the  use  of  all  this  Greek  terminology.  But  at  no  time 
do  we  hear  of  a  Latin  equivalent  for  musice,  mathesis, 

1  Plut.  Sulla,  2,  36  ;  Macrob.  Sat.  iii.  14,  10. 

2  de  Or.  iii.  87.  ^  Q^i^t  ii.  14,  1-4. 

^  Suet.  Gram.  4.  s  Quint,  ii.  1,  4  ;   14,  3. 

«  de  Or.  i.  84-7  ;  iii.  92-4,  125. 


92  THE  DEIORATORE 

and  geometria  :  these  were  evidently  considered  too 
Greek  to  be  Romanized.  On  the  other  hand,  all  the 
terms  for  elementary  schools  are  purely  Latin.  Ludi 
magister  is  the  ordinary  word  for  an  elementary 
schoolmaster,  though  Gellius  and  Apuleius  both  use 
litterator,  the  word  given  by  Suetonius.^  And  the 
term  calculator  was  invariably  used  for  the  teacher 
of  elementary  arithmetic.^  This  last  word  has  a 
curious  history.  In  the  time  of  the  Empire,  it  was 
accepted  as  a  Greek  word,  at  least  in  legal  termino- 
logy. Modestinus,  a  Greek  jurist  of  the  third  century 
A.D.,  uses  KaXKovXoLTCjp  in  the  Digest,^  and  the  same 
barbarous  form  is  found  in  the  Greek  version  of 
Diocletian's  Edict.*  Horace  was  not  so  far  wrong 
when  he  claimed  simple  addition  and  subtraction  as 
a  peculiarly  Roman  art. 

§  3.  The  schools  of  literature  and  rhetoric. 
Apart  from  a  superficial  knowledge  of  music  and 
mathematics,  Roman  education  was  given  almost 
entirely  in  the  schools  of  literature  and  rhetoric,  and 
here  Cicero's  theory  is  of  special  importance.  In  the 
de  Oratore  Crassus  defines  the  duties  of  a  grammaticus 
as  follows :  '  to  comment  on  the  poets,  to  teach 
history,  to  explain  the  meaning  of  words,  to  impart 
a  correct  accent  a-nd  delivery'.^  These  same  duties 
are  described  by  Quintilian  in  greater  detail,^  and 

1  Gell.  xvi.  6,  1  ;  xviii.  9,  2  ;  Apul.  Flor.  20. 
-  Mart.  X.  62,  4  ;  Isidor.  orig.  i.  3,  1  ;  Digest,  xxxviii.  1,  7,  5  ; 
L.  13,  1,  6  ;   Cod.  Just.  x.  53  (52),  4.         ^  Digest,  xxvii.  1,  15,  5. 
*  Edict.  Diocl.  7,  67  (Mommseii).  ^  de  Or.  i.  187. 

6  Quint,  i.  4,  2  ;  9,  1. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  93 

for  the  most  part  they  require  no  comment.  But  two 
questions  need  to  be  discussed  more  fully.  What 
authors  were  read  in  these  schools  of  literature  ? 
And  in  what  language  were  the  lectures  given  ? 

Cicero  makes  neither  point  plain  in  his  de  Oratore  ; 
but  the  evidence  of  contemporary  literature  shows 
that  Greek  was  still  preponderant  in  the  schools  of 
Rome.  Of  the  Latin  grammatici  mentioned  by 
Suetonius  many  are  not  professional  schoolmasters 
at  all,  but  simply  distinguished  scholars  who  gave 
private  lectures  to  their  friends.^  Orbihus  and 
Valerius  Cato  are  the  only  two  professional  teachers 
whose  Latin  origin  is  certain.^  Another,  M.  Antonius 
Gnipho,  was  born  in  Gaul ;  but  he  knew  Greek  as 
perfectly  as  Latin,  and  was  probably  a  native  of  one 
of  the  Greek-speaking  towns  in  the  Rhone  valley.^ 
All  the  other  names  mentioned  by  Suetonius  as 
having  flourished  under  the  Republic  are  plainly 
Greek  ;  and  Cicero  speaks  of  none  but  Greek  tutors 
for  his  son.*  Even  more  significant  is  the  fact  that 
when  Cicero  began  to  give  his  son  and  nephew  classes 
in  rhetoric,  he  preferred  Greek  to  Latin  as  a  medium 
for  instruction.^  Later  on,  he  writes  to  his  son  at 
Athens  and  cautions  him  against  neglecting  his  Latin 
exercises  ;  ^  the  caution  shows  which  language  was 
predominant  in  ordinary  class-work.  And  all  con- 
temporary literature  makes  it  plain  that  a  knowledge 
of  Greek  was  universal  in  the  Roman  society  of 

1  Suet.  Gram.  2,  3.  ^  n^i^,^  gn  3  ^-^^-^  7^ 

*  ad  Q.  Jr.  ii.  4,  2  ;  iii.  3,  4  ;  ad  Att.  iv.  15,  10. 

5  Part.  or.  1-2.  ^  de  Off.  i.  1  ;  cf.  ad  Fam.  xvi.  21,  5. 


94  THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE 

Cicero's  day.  Cicero's  letters  are  full  of  Greek,  and 
a  whole  section  of  his  correspondence  was  actually 
written  in  Greek  .^  Roman  orators  were  expected 
on  occasion  to  deliver  orations  in  Greek,^  and  Cicero's 
tutor,  Molo  of  Rhodes,  was  allowed  to  address  the 
senate  in  Greek  without  an  interpreter.^  Greek  was 
the  fashionable  literary  language,  and  more  than  one 
of  Cicero's  friends  published  works  in  Greek  as  well 
as  in  Latin.* 

This  preference  for  Greek  as  a  literary  language 
was  not  due  to  any  lack  of  Roman  patriotism .  Cicero 
himself  is  never  weary  of  repeating  his  admiration 
for  Roman  genius,  and  his  conviction  that  Latin 
literature  would  eventually  equal,  perhaps  even 
surpass,  Greek  literature.^  But  Greek,  with  its 
wealth  of  literature  in  prose  and  verse  and  its  tradi- 
tion of  scientific  criticism,  was  the  inevitable  language 
for  use  in  schools.  Orbilius,  it  is  true,  made  his 
pupils  learn  their  Livius  Andronicus  by  heart,^  and 
Cicero  learnt  his  Twelve  Tables  as  a  boy  ;  '  but  what 
were  Livius,  Ennius,  Accius,  Plautus,  Terence,  and 
Lucilius  when  compared  with  Homer,  Hesiod,  the 
Attic  tragedians,  and  Menander  ?  And  the  contrast 
was  even  more  apparent  in  prose  literature.    Matters 

1  Plut.  Cic.  24  ;  cf.  Fr.  Ruhl  in  Rhein.  Mus.,  vol.  Ixx  (1915), 
pp.  315-25. 

2  Cic.  in  Verr.  iv.  147  ;   Quint,  xi.  2,  50. 

3  Plut.  Cic.  4  ;  Cic.  Brut.  312. 

^  ad  Alt.  i.  19,  10  ;  Plut.  Lucull.  1  ;  cf.  R.  Daebritz  in  Philo- 
logus,  vol.  xxiv  (1911),  pp.  267-73. 

5  de  Or.  i.  13-15  ;  iii.  95  ;   Or.  22-3  ;   Tusc.  i.  1-6. 

6  Hor.  Ejyp.  u.  1,  69.  '  de  Leg.  ii.  59. 


THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE  95 

were  different  fifty  years  later  when  a  classical  Latin 
literature  had  been  created  by  Cicero  himself  and  the 
writers  of  the  Augustan  age.  But  all  the  enthusiasm 
and  energy  of  Orbilius  could  not  make  early  Latin 
literature  attractive  to  schoolboys,  and  it  has  been 
well  said  that  Horace's  satire  on  Ennius,  Naevius, 
and  the  rest  expresses  '  his  parting  shot  at  the 
criticisms  he  had  been  made  to  swallow  in  his  boy- 
hood '/  For  good  or  for  ill,  Cicero's  words  are  true  : 
'  We  Romans  have  gone  to  school  in  Greece  ;  we 
read  their  poets  and  learn  them  by  heart,  and  then 
we  think  ourselves  scholars  and  men  of  culture.'  - 

In  addition  to  the  study  of  literature  and  grammar, 
Cicero  assigns  to  the  grammaticus  the  task  of  giving 
his  pupils  '  a  correct  accent  and  delivery '  ?  The 
phrase  refers  primarily  to  lessons  in  reading  aloud  and 
declamation  ;  but  Cicero  may  also  have  had  in  mind 
some  elementary  lessons  in  rhetoric.  For  in  the 
early  days  of  Graeco-Roman  education  rhetoric  was 
taught  by  the  professor  of  literature,  and  the  custom 
was  still  occasionally  observed  in  Rome  as  late  as  the 
first  century  a.d.*  Even  when  the  two  professions 
had  been  separated  by  custom,  it  was  quite  a  common 
practice  for  the  grammaticus  to  end  his  course  of 
literature  with  an  informal  introduction  to  the  study 
of  rhetoric.^  Cicero  himself  regularly  speaks  of 
grammatici  and  rhetores  as  distinct  professions  ;  but 
the  division  between  their  schools  was  not  so  clearly 

^  Nettleship,  Essays  (Second  Series),  p.  52. 

2  Tusc.  ii.  27.  ^  de  Or.  i.  187. 

*  Suet.  Gram.  4.  ^  Quint,  ii.  1,  3-6. 


96  THE  DE  OB  AT  ORE 

marked  as  modern  authors  are  apt  to  assume/  No 
exact  age  can  be  fixed  for  the  change  from  one  school 
to  another.  Cicero  himself  thought  of  going  to  hear 
Plotius  Gallus  when  he  was  only  thirteen  or  fourteen 
years  old,^  and  he  got  a  tutor  in  rhetoric  for  his  son 
when  the  boy  was  only  eleven.^ 

These  facts  speak  for  themselves,  and  the  de 
Orators  makes  it  quite  plain  that  Cicero  regarded 
rhetoric  as  part  of  the  puerilis  institution  Indeed 
Cicero's  main  purpose  in  writing  the  dialogue  was  to 
persuade  his  contemporaries  that  the  instruction 
usually  given  in  the  schools  of  rhetoric  was  inadequate 
as  a  preparation  for  true  oratory.  Crassus  is  here  the 
spokesman  of  Cicero's  own  experience. 

'  Thanks  to  my  father's  care  ',  he  says,  '  I  was  well  educated 
as  a  boy  ;  but  I  cannot  say  that  I  was  taught  everything  that 
I  am  now  teUing  you  should  be  taught  in  our  schools.  For  I 
began  my  career  as  an  advocate  at  an  unusually  early  age,  and 
was  only  twenty-one  years  old  when  I  arraigned  one  of  our 
foremost  citizens  and  orators.  The  forum  was  thus  my  class- 
room, and  my  teacher  was  none  other  than  the  customs,  laws, 
institutions  and  traditions  of  the  Roman  people.'  ^ 

And  he  adds  that  once  his  school-days  were  over,  he 
had  no  time  for  study  save  in  the  intervals  of  public 
business.^  Antonius,  who  serves  as  a  foil  to  Crassus 
in  the  dialogue,  insists  even  more  strongly  on  the 
difficulty  of  adding  anything  to  the  school-curricu- 
lum. '  Before  we  have  time  to  begin  our  studies  ', 
he  says,  '  we  are  caught  in  the  stream  of  ambition 

1  JuUien,  p.  340  ;  Wilkins,  p.  77  ;  Bliimner,  p.  332. 

2  Suet.  Rhet.  2  ;  see  ajjove,  p.  64.  ^  ^d  Q.  fr.  ii.  4,  2. 
«  de  Or.  i.  163,  244  ;  ii.  100  ;  iii.  38.  ^  ibid.  iii.  74^5. 
*  ibid.  iii.  85. 


THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE  97 

and  public  life.'  ^  Cicero  himself  might  have  re- 
echoed those  words,  were  it  not  for  a  lucky  break- 
down in  his  health  ;  many  of  his  contemporaries 
must  have  been  less  fortunate. 

According  to  Cicero,  the  existing  schools  of  rhetoric 
did  more  harm  than  good.  The  classes  were  given  by 
some  Greek  professor  who  had  never  been  to  the 
forum  in  his  life,  and  who  taught  oratory  by  rule  of 
thumb  .^  At  best,  he  could  teach  you  to  deny  the 
charge  brought  against  you  in  the  court,  or,  if  that 
trick  failed,  to  accuse  your  adversary  of  some  mis- 
demeanour ;  as  a  last  resort  he  might  help  you  to 
justify  your  conduct  by  one  or  other  of  his  stock 
excuses.^  The  irony  is  severe  ;  but  Cicero's  own 
de  Inventione  and  the  parallel  treatise  ad  Herennium 
are  there  to  prove  how  far  Greek  rhetoric  had  gone  on 
the  path  of  formal  and  barren  scholasticism.  Both 
works  are  based  mainly  on  a  famous  text-book,  now 
lost :  the  Rhetoric  of  Hermagoras.  Quintiliah  names 
the  author  of  this  text-book  as  an  outstanding  figure 
in  the  history  of  rhetoric,*  and  his  influence  on  later 
Greek  and  Roman  writers  can  hardly  be  overesti- 
mated. A  brief  account  of  his  theory  will  illustrate 
the  type  of  teaching  which  Cicero  is  criticizing  in  the 
de  Orator e. 

Hermagoras  flourished  about  the  middle  of  the 
second  century  b.c.^  Stoic  influence  was  at  the  time 
predominant   in   Greek  thought,   and   Hermagoras 

^  ibid.  i.  94  ;  ii.  1-4.  ^  ibid.  ii.  75  ;  Laurand,  pp.  5  foil. 

3  ibid.  iii.  70,  75.  ^  Quint,  iii.  1,  16. 

5  Thiele,  p.  177  ;  Susemihl,  ii,  p.  472,  n.  83. 

3029  jf 


98  THE  DE  ORATORE 

must  have  studied  under  some  teacher  of  that  school. 
Stoic  terminology  is  a  marked  feature  of  all  his 
theory,  and  the  Stoic  habit  of  division  and  sub- 
division was  applied  by  him  in  all  its  logical  com- 
pleteness to  the  study  of  rhetoric .  Cicero's  complaint 
that  Stoic  theory  neglected  the  practical  aspects  of 
oratory  in  favour  of  abstract  definitions  and  sub- 
distinctions  ^  i's  doubly  true  of  Hermagoras.  Aristotle 
had  based  his  theory  of  rhetoric  on  a  careful  induc- 
tion of  what  had  been  found  useful  in  the  practical 
work  of  oratory.  Hermagoras  deduces  his  theory 
from  an  abstract  definition  of  the  subject-matter 
{^-qTyjixa) ;  ^  calculates  with  almost  mathematical 
accuracy  the  exact  place  for  each  portion  of  the 
speech  ;  can  tell  you  where  to  put  in  a  digression, 
and  where  to  make  an  emotional  appeal ;  and  has 
little  or  nothing  to  say  about  the  various  types  of 
oratorical  style  .^ 

The  natural  consequence  of  this  theory  was  a 
change  in  the  value  set  upon  different  kinds  of 
oratory.  Aristotle  had  divided  oratory  into  three 
general  types :  speeches  in  favour  of  or  against 
a  future  action  {a-vfi/BovXevTiKov),  speeches  in  favour 
of  or  against  a  past  action  (StKavLKop),  and  speeches 
composed  as  a  display  of  oratorical  power  (eVtSeticrt- 
Kov)}  Epideictic  oratory  is  assigned  the  lowest 
place,  and  Aristotle's  preferences  are  for  the  first  of 
the  three  types,  with  its  greater  opportunities  for 

.     1  de  Or.  ii.  159  ;  Top.  6.  2  xhiele,  pp.  33  foil. 

3  ibid.,  pp.  84  foil.,  140  foil. 
«  Ar.  Rhet.  i.  3  ;  Volkmann,  pp.  16  foil. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  99 

true  political  oratory.  Hermagoras  inverts  this 
order.  Epideictic  oratory  is  still  assigned  the  lowest 
place,  but  legal  arguments  are  preferred  to  more 
general  political  or  philosophic  themes.^  In  Cicero's 
language,  all  his  rules  are  about  causae  (or  contro- 
versiae,  as  they  were  called  in  the  Augustan  age)  : 
little  or  nothing  is  said  about  abstract  quaestiones 
(suasoriae) i^  And  the  reason  is  obvious.  Hermagoras 
and  his  school  had  a  passion  for  the  ingenious  logical 
development  of  an  argument,  and  these  qualities 
were  shown  to  better  advantage  in  the  statement  of 
a  complicated  case  than  in  the  discussion  of  some  great 
issue.  Hermagoras  himself  carried  this  ingenuity  to 
strange  extremes  :  he  was  prepared  to  write  a  speech 
on  a  murder-case,  developed  according  to  the  best 
rules  of  his  school,  but  without  a  single  allusion  to 
the  crime  or  the  victim.^ 

Yet  with  all  its  faults,  Greek  scholastic  rhetoric 
was  a  wonderfully  elaborate  and  logical  science,  and 
Cicero  himself  admits  that  he  could  not  improve  on 
Greek  rhetorical  technique.^  Indeed,  the  orator  never 
seems  to  be  quite  at  home  when  he  is  writing  about 
the  technical  details  of  rhetorical  composition  :  the 
TexvoXoyia  of  his  dialogue,  as  he  calls  it  in  one  of  his 
letters.^  It  is  only  in  the  third  book  of  his  de  Orator e 
that  this  TexvoXoyta  becomes  alive :   for  there,  as  in 

1  Thiele,  p.  78. 

2  de  Or.  iii.  78  ;  for  the  terminology  Sen.  Contr.  i,  praef.  12  ; 
below,  p.  164. 

3  Thiele,  p.  64.  *  de  Or.  i.  23,  145  ;  Laurand,  pp.  12  foil, 
s  ad  Att.  iv.  16,  3. 


100  THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE 

the  Orator,  he  is  writing  on  the  theory  of  literary 
style,  and  Cicero  well  knew  that  he  was  the  greatest 
living  master  of  the  art — possibly  the  greatest  that 
has  ever  lived.  Yet,  strange  to  say,  the  Greek 
technicalities  which  he  so  disliked  did  more  than  his 
literary  style  to  save  his  essays  on  rhetoric  from  the 
fate  of  so  much  else  that  he  wrote .  A  modern  scholar  ^ 
has  calculated  that  we  have  lost  in  all  nearly  fifty  of 
Cicero's  speeches,  whole  collections  of  his  corre- 
spondence, and  such  famous  dialogues  as  the  Horten- 
sius,  the  de  Gloria,  and,  with  the  exception  of  a  few 
fragments,  the  de  Be  puhlica.  But  the  essays  on 
rhetoric  have  been  preserved  in  their  entirety  :  not 
merely  the  de  Oratore,  the  Orator,  and  the  Brutus, 
but  the  youthful  de  Inventione  and  such  minor  works 
as  the  Topica,  the  Partitiones  oratoriae,  and  the  de 
Optimo  genere  oratorum.  And  of  them  all  none  was 
more  read  and  commented  than  the  '  school-boy 
notes '  for  which  Cicero  felt  it  necessary  to  apologize :  ^ 
precisely  because  they  reflected  more  faithfully  than 
any  other  of  his  treatises  the  despised  Te^vokoyia  of 
the  Greeks.    Literature  has  her  ironies  as  well  as  life. 

§  4.  History,  Law,  and  Philosophy. 
'  The  lesson  of  my  dialogue  ',  says  Cicero  in  the  de 
Oratore,  '  is  that  no  man  has  ever  become  a  great 
orator  unless  he  has  combined  a  training  in  rhetoric 
with  all  other  branches  of  knowledge  '  ;  ^  and  again, 
even  more  clearly  :    '  In  my  opinion  no  one  can  hope 

1  Zielinski,  p.  131.        ^  gchanz,  i.  2,  p.  402  ;  Zielinski,p.  321. 
^  de  Or.  ii.  5. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  101 

to  be  an  orator  in  the  true  sense  of  the  word  unless 
he  has  acquu-ed  knowledge  of  all  the  sciences  and  all 
the  great  problems  of  life.'  ^  Rhetoric  is  only  a 
subordinate  part  of  this  universal  programme,  and 
Cicero  expressly  approves  the  attitude  of  Crassus 
in  his  dialogue,  who  '  neither  wholly  devoted  himself 
to  the  study  of  rhetoric  as  do  those  who  measure  all 
eloquence  by  its  art,  nor  wholly  rejected  it,  as  so 
many  philosophers  have  done '  .^  Cicero  himself 
remained  a  student  of  rhetoric  all  his  life.  As  late 
as  66  B.C.,  when  he  held  the  office  of  praetor,  he  was 
still  a  pupil  of  M.  Antonius  Gnipho  ;  ^  and  twenty- 
three  years  later  he  gave  private  classes  in  rhetoric 
to  the  two  consuls  of  the  year,  Hirtius  and  Pansa.* 
Rhetoric  belongs  thus  to  the  politior  humanitas  as 
well  as  to  the  puerilis  institutio  :  but  of  all  the  higher 
studies  recommended  in  the  de  Oratore  it  is  the  least 
important. 

Since  Cicero  claims  the  whole  field  of  knowledge 
for  his  ideal  orator,  no  precise  definition  of  his 
educational  theory  is  possible.  In  the  early  chapters 
of  his  dialogue  he  argues  that,  since  an  orator  must 
be  ready  to  speak  with  knowledge  and  persuasive 
power  on  every  subject,  he  must  be  familiar  with 
rhetoric,  ethics,  psychology,  history,  jurisprudence, 
military  and  naval  science,  medicine  and  physical 
sciences  such  as  geography  and  astronomy.^  The 
catalogue  is  interrupted  by  a  laugh  from  one  of  the 
bystanders,  and  Cicero  plainly  feels  the  need  of  an 

1  ibid.  i.  20, 72.        2  ^-^^^  j  hq         3  3^^^.  Gram.  7  ;  Rhet.  1. 
*  Suet.  Rhet.  1.  ^  de  Or.  i.  45-73. 


102  THE  DE  ORATORS 

apology  :  Hellenistic  ideas  of  universal  culture  look 
well  on  paper,  but  the  line  must  be  drawn  somewhere 
in  practical  life.  And  so,  with  a  plea  for  the  busy 
Koman  who  has  to  govern  the  world  as  well  as  write 
speeches,  he  announces  his  intention  of  dealing  only 
with  the  subjects  which  are  of  practical  importance 
for  judicial  and  deliberative  oratory.^  The  course 
of  the  dialogue  makes  it  plain  that  these  subjects 
are  principally  three  in  number :  history,  juris- 
prudence, and  philosophy.  But  the  argument 
assumes  throughout  the  dialogue  that  the  future 
orator  has  already  received  the  '  liberal  education  ' 
of  an  ordinary  Roman  school-boy.  '  Were  I  to  train 
an  orator ',  says  Antonius  in  the  second  book,  '  I 
should  begin  by  finding  out  the  extent  of  his  powers. 
He  would  need  to  have  studied  literature  for  a  while, 
to  have  been  to  some  school  and  done  some  read- 
ing, and  been  taught  the  rules  of  rhetoric'  ^  That  is 
an  excellent  colloquial  definition  of  the  puerilis 
institutio. 

Cicero  was  not  the  first  Roman  to  emphasize  the 
educational  value  of  history,  and  in  particular  of 
national  history.  Cato,  who  '  wrote  out  a  history 
with  his  own  hand  and  in  large  characters '  for  his 
son's  use,  spent  the  last  years  of  his  life  writing 
a  history  of  Rome  :  ^  and  the  Roman  Republic 
never  lacked  historians.  Yet  history  was  never 
taught  as  a  separate  subject  in  the  Roman  schools. 
This  curious  anomaly  is  explained  by  the  methods  of 

1  de  Or.  i.  21.  2  n^i^  -^i  35 

3  Plut.  Cato  maior,  20  ;  Com.  Nep.  Cato,  3,  3. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  103 

Graeco-Roman  literary  education.  Prose-authors 
were  not  usually  read  in  the  schools  of  literature, 
and  whatever  general  instruction  was  given  took  the 
form  of  oral  commentary  on  the  poets  read  in  class. 
That  is  why  Cicero  names  the  teaching  of  history  as 
work  done  by  the  grammaticus,^  and  Quintilian  takes 
the  same  practice  for  granted  more  than  a  century 
later  .^  In  Greece,  where  national  legend  and  history 
were  the  sole  theme  of  epic  and  drama,  the  practice 
was  natural  enough  :  even  the  dullest  of  teachers 
could  hardly  fail  to  teach  history  well  with  Homer 
and  Aeschylus  as  his  text-books.  But  in  Roman 
schools  under  the  Republic,  where  Greek  literature 
was  usually  preferred  to  Latin,  the  study  of  national 
history  was  bound  to  suffer.  The  only  early  Latin 
poem  certainly  read  at  school  was  the  Latin  Odyssey 
of  Livius  Andronicus.^  More  national  poems  were 
to  hand,  if  the  teacher  cared  to  use  them  :  the  Punic 
War  of  Naevius,  the  Annals  of  Ennius,  and  the 
Satires  of  Lucilius.  Orbilius,  so  Horace's  language 
implies,  made  his  pupils  learn  them  all  by  heart,* 
and  Cicero's  numerous  quotations  show  that  he  had 
read  them  with  an  eye  to  Roman  history.  But 
Orbilius  is  a  lonely  figure  in  the  history  of  Roman 
education,  and  Cicero  was  noted  for  his  antiquarian 
interests.  The  average  Roman  boy  probably  left 
school  with  a  singularly  vague  knowledge  of  his 
country's  past :  and  the  standard  of  knowledge 
drops  notably  under  the  Emj)ire.     Graeco-Roman 

1  de  Or.  i.  187.  2  Quint,  i.  8,  18  ;  below,  p.  198. 

3  Hor.  Epp.  ii.  1,  69.  *  ibid.  ii.  1,  60,  85. 


104  THE  DE  ORATORE 

mjrthology  takes  the  place  of  national  history  in 
ordinary  class-work  at  school,  and  the  change 
accounts  in  part  for  the  general  dullness  of  later 
Latin  literature. 

But  the  schools  of  literature  were  not  wholly  to 
blame  for  this  neglect  of  history.  What  was  lacking 
in  their  curriculum  might  very  well  have  been 
supplied  by  the  teachers  of  rhetoric,  and  Plotius 
Gallus  proved  that  interest  in  national  history,  even 
in  contemporary  politics,  could  be  stimulated  by  the 
selection  of  good  subjects  for  declamation.  Here 
again  the  Greeks  had  given  the  lead.  Many  of  the 
declamations  commonly  in  use  as  school  exercises 
dealt  with  incidents  of  Greek  history,  notably  those 
described  by  the  great  classical  historians.  The 
overthrow  of  the  tyrants,  the  Persian  wars,  Cleon, 
Pericles  and  Alcibiades,  Aeschines  and  Demosthenes, 
Alexander  the  Great :  these  were  the  favourite 
topics  and  personages,  and  it  was  obviously  easy  to 
combine  such  exercises  with  an  intelligent  study  of 
Greek  history.^  But  Roman  teachers  found  it 
easier  to  borrow  than  to  imitate,  and  the  preference 
for  Greek  subjects  becomes  more  marked  as  time 
goes  on.  Cicero's  de  Inventione,  written  at  a  time 
when  the  influence  of  Plotius  Gallus  was  still  strong, 
shows  both  tendencies  at  work.  Many  of  his  exempla 
are  borrowed  directly  from  Greek  legend  and  history  : 
Epaminondas  and  Alexander  appear  in  company 
with  Ajax,   Clytemnestra,   and   Orestes.^     But   the 

1  Kohl,  pp.  8-89. 

2  de  Inv.  i.  11,  18,  31,  55,  69,  93. 


THE  DE  OR  AT  ORE  105 

number  of  Roman  subjects  is  even  larger.  The 
legend  of  the  three  Horatii,  the  Samnite  and  Punic 
wars,  the  war  with  Philip  of  Macedon,  the  destruction 
of  Carthage  and  Corinth,  two  incidents  from  the 
Cimbric  wars,  the  revolt  of  Fregellae,  and  a  minor 
campaign  conducted  by  Cicero's  own  patron, 
L.  Licinius  Crassus,  in  94  B.C.:  these  are  typical 
exempla  from  his  early  work,^  and  the  same  principle  of 
selection  is  applied  in  the  Partitiones  oratoriae,  written 
in  54  or  53  b .  c .^  Unfortunately  Cicero's  example  was 
not  followed  by  later  teachers  of  rhetoric  :  the  tradi- 
tion of  the  Latini  rhetor es  ends  with  Plotius  Gallus. 

Cicero's  own  interest  in  the  study  of  history,  and 
his  theory  of  historical  criticism,  illustrate  both  the 
merits  and  defects  of  Graeco-Roman  education. 
'  To  be  ignorant  of  what  happened  before  you  were 
born ',  he  writes  in  the  Orator,  '  is  to  live  the  life  of 
a  child  for  ever.  For  what  is  man's  life,  unless  woven 
into  the  life  of  our  ancestors  by  the  memory  of  past 
deeds  ?  '  ^  And  his  praise  of  history  in  the  de  Oratore 
has  become  a  commonplace  :  '  witness  of  the  ages, 
light  of  truth,  life  of  tradition,  teacher  of  life, 
messenger  of  antiquity ',  so  runs  his  litany  of  praise.* 
But  history  has  a  double  value  in  his  eyes  :  it  links 
us  with  the  past,  and  it  is  invaluable  as  a  store-house 
of  rhetorical  illustrations.  '  An  orator  must  know 
all  the  countless  lessons  of  antiquity  ',  he  says  in  the 
De  oratore  ;  ^  and  in  the  Orator,  the  Brutus,  and  the 

1  ibid.  i.  11,  17  ;  ii.  52,  72,  78,  91,  111,  124,  171. 

2  Part.  or.  104-6.  ^  Or.  120.  *  de  Or.  ii.  36. 
5  ibid.  i.  18,  201. 


106  THE  DE  ORATORE 

Hortensius  he  stresses  the  value  of  national  history 
for  the  same  purpose.^ 

Cicero  has  often  been  criticized  for  this  pragmatic 
view  of  history,  and  has  been  made  responsible  for 
the  rhetorical  sins  of  later  Roman  historians  .^  A  sen- 
tence from  the  Brutus  is  sometimes  quoted  as  proof 
conclusive  of  the  charge.  Cicero  has  just  quoted  the 
death  of  Coriolanus  as  an  example  of  national 
ingratitude,  and  then  hesitates  because  Atticus  is 
present,  and  he  is  not  sure  of  his  facts.  '  No  matter  ', 
says  Atticus  ;  '  and  in  any  case  there  is  no  objection 
to  falsifying  history  in  rhetoric,  for  the  sake  of  a  neat 
point.'  ^  The  words  are  spoken  half  jestingly  in  the 
dialogue  ;  but  Cicero's  critics  have  not  always  been 
noted  for  their  sense  of  humour  and  the  orator's 
least  words,  even  those  spoken  in  a  dramatic  dialogue, 
must  be  brought  in  judgement  against  him.  Yet 
Cicero's  theory  of  historical  criticism  is  not  far  to 
seek.  '  The  first  rule  of  history ',  he  tells  us  in  the 
de  Oratore,  '  is  to  say  nothing  wilfully  false  ;  the 
second,  wilfully  to  suppress  no  truth  '  ;  and  on  these 
foundations  he  builds  a  theory  of  scientific  criticism 
which  would  do  credit  to  any  modern  University 
professor.  An  accurate  knowledge  of  chronology  and 
geography,  due  attention  to  the  causes  which  under- 
lie superficial  phenomena,  the  laws  of  human 
psychology,  the  standards  of  public  morality  and  the 
moral  influence   of  great   personalities :     all  these 

1  Or.  120  ;  Brut.  322  ;  Mortens,  fr.  26  (Miiller). 

2  Peter,  i,  pp.  12  foil.  ;    Norden,  pp.  81  foil.  ;    Schanz,  i.  2, 
p.  388.  3  £^^t  42. 


THE  DE  OBATORE  107 

Cicero  requires,  and  his  concluding  precept  is  a 
warning  against  too  much  attention  to  Hterary 
ornament.^ 

Yet  it  is  just  this  passage  which  has  most  irritated 
modern  critics  :  for  it  begins  with  the  assertion  that 
history  '  is  in  great  measure  the  function  of  an 
orator '  ?  And  in  the  preface  to  his  de  Legibus,  where 
he  distinguishes  history  from  poetry,  he  goes  on  to 
say  that  history  '  is  the  most  oratorical  of  all  forms 
of  composition  '.^  These  are  startling  definitions  at 
first  sight,  and  seem  to  cancel  the  value  of  Cicero's 
more  scientific  theory.  But  '  oratory ',  in  Cicero's 
language,  means  artistic  prose,  not  rhetoric  ;  and 
the  great  orator's  theory  of  criticism  makes  nonsense 
only  when  this  distinction  is  forgotten.  His  com- 
parison between  history  and  oratory  merely  expresses 
the  common  judgement  of  antiquity,  that  historical 
composition  is  an  art  and  must  be  guided  by  an 
artist's  standards.  Greek  critics,  perhaps  with  a 
surer  instinct,  preferred  to  compare  history  with 
poetry  as  a  creative  art,  and  QuintiHan  sums  up  their 
theory  in  a  well-known  phrase  :  '  History  is  akin  to 
poetry,  and  may  be  called  a  poem  in  prose.'  * 
Cicero  himself  more  than  once  speaks  of  oratory 
as  almost  a  form  of  poetry,^  and  there  is  perhaps  no 
fundamental  difference  between  his  definition  and 
Quintilian's. 

Cicero's  theory  of  historical  composition  is  best 
illustrated    by    the    criticisms    of    earlier    Koman 
1  de  Or.  ii.  62^.  2  n^i^  jj  52.  ^  ^^  i^  j  5 

*  Quint.  X.  1,  31.  5  ^g  Or.  i.  70  ;  iii.  27  ;  Or.  66. 


108  THE  DE  ORATORE 

historians  with  which  he  has  prefaced  his  de  Legibus. 
Even  Cato  is  too  jejune  for  his  taste,  and  CoeUus 
Antipater  too  clumsy.  '  We  have  no  historian  in 
Latin  Hterature  ',  is  his  final  verdict ;  and  he  ends 
with  a  hint  that  he  himself  might  yet  live  to  write 
the  classical  history  of  Rome.^  More  than  one  of  his 
contemporaries  shared  this  hope,  and  Cornelius  Nepos 
mourned  Cicero's  death  as  the  loss  of  a  great 
historian.^  But  the  orator's  ideal  historian  came 
a  generation  later.  Livy's  stately  preface,  with  its 
claim  that  Roman  history  is  '  greater  than  the 
history  of  any  other  State,  more  venerable  and  richer 
in  examples  of  human  virtue  \^  exactly  expresses 
Cicero's  thought :  and  Livy's  sober  judgement, 
breadth  of  historical  perspective,  and  highly-trained 
literary  sense  are  durable  proof  that  history  can  be 
nearly  allied  to  oratory  and  yet  remain  true  to  its 
proper  functions.  After  all,  how  many  modern 
historians  are  as  well  worth  reading  as  Livy  ? 

Cicero's  interest  in  Roman  jurisprudence  is  very 
closely  connected  with  his  interest  in  Roman  history. 
In  the  de  Oratore  this  connexion  is  expressly  stated, 
and  is  linked  with  the  names  of  Cicero's  early  patrons, 
L.  Aelius  Stilo  and  Q.  Mucins  Scaevola  ;  *  in  the 
de  Legibus,  which  begins  with  a  digression  on  Roman 
history,  Scaevola  is  named  as  the  man  to  whom 
Cicero  mainly  owed  his  interest  in  Roman  law.^ 
National  pride  is  the  inspiring  motive  of  this  double 
interest. 

1  de  Leg.  i.  5-8.         2  Qqj,^  ^^^^  fj.  26  (Halm)  ;  Plut.  Cic.  41. 
3  Livy,  praef.  11.  ^  de  Or.  i.  193.  ^  ^g  i^g  j   13 


THE  DE  ORATORE  109 

'  Let  the  philosophers  rage  as  they  will ',  says  Crassus  in  the 
de  Oratore  ;  '  I  give  my  opinion  in  spite  of  them.  When  due 
attention  is  paid  to  the  origins  and  principles  of  our  laws,  a  single 
copy  of  the  Twelve  Tables  has  greater  weight  and  authority  than 
the  libraries  of  all  the  philosophers  in  the  world.  If  all  men  take 
pride  in  their  country,  as  is  their  first  duty,  what  must  be  our 
love  and  enthusiasm  for  a  coimtry  which  is  the  sole  home  of 
valour,  empire,  and  true  nobility  ?  We  are  all  children  of  our 
country.  That  is  reason  enough  for  being  familiar  with  its 
genius,  its  traditions,  its  civilization  ;  but  we  may  also  feel  sure 
that  our  ancestors  were  as  wise  in  the  framing  of  their  laws  as  in 
the  wiiming  of  this  vast  Empire  with  all  its  resources.' 

And  he  goes  on  to  compare  the  Twelve  Tables  with 
the  constitutions  of  Lycurgus,  Draco,  and  Solon  ; 
bidding  his  readers  rejoice  in  the  contrast  between 
Roman  law  and  the  '  confused  and  almost  laughable  ' 
attempts  of  other  nations/ 

Can  an  orator  be  also  a  jurist  ?  The  question  is 
important  for  Cicero's  educational  theory,  but  no 
very  satisfactory  answer  can  be  found  in  the  de 
Oratore.  Two  speeches  of  the  dialogue  deal  with  this 
problem  :  one  by  Crassus,  who  favours  an  extensive 
study  of  Roman  public  and  private  law,  the  other  by 
Antonius,  who  maintains  that  oratory  and  juris- 
prudence are  separate  sciences,  each  demanding  the 
study  of  a  lifetime."  No  formal  solution  is  given  to 
the  problem,  but  the  whole  structure  of  the  de  Oratore 
shows  that  Cicero's  sympathies  were  with  the 
idealism  of  Crassus.  Antonius  appears  consistently 
in  the  dialogue  as  the  type  of  a  successful  advocate 
who  owes  his  success  entirely  to  natural  talent :  he 
affects  a  contempt  for  Greek  culture,  and  boasts 
1  de  Or.  i.  195-7.  ^  ^-^^-^  j   166-203,  234-55. 


110  THE  DE  ORATORE 

openly  that  lie  has  never  made  a  serious  study  of 
Roman  law/  Crassus,  on  the  other  hand,  is  repre- 
sented as  an  accomplished  lawyer,  under  the  influence 
of  his  father-in-law,  Scaevola  Augur .^  The  name  at 
once  suggests  Cicero's  own  experience,  and  there  is 
more  than  one  hint  in  the  de  Oratore  that  Crassus  is 
an  idealized  portrait  of  Cicero  himself.^  Ten  years 
later,  in  the  Brutus,  Cicero  elaborated  the  comparison 
in  detail,  comparing  himself  with  Crassus  and  his 
friend  Servius  Sulpicius  with  Scaevola  Pontifex  :  ^ 
a  double  comparison  which  must  have  been  in 
Cicero's  mind  when  wi'iting  the  earlier  dialogue,  for 
he  there  makes  Crassus  narrate  an  anecdote  of 
himself  and  Scaevola  exactly  parallel  to  his  own 
handling  of  Sulpicius  in  the  pro  Murena.^ 

But  Crassus  is  not  allowed  to  have  it  all  his  own 
way  in  the  argument  about  legal  studies,  and  it  is 
a  fair  conclusion  that  Cicero  himseK  admitted  a 
compromise  as  possible.  In  his  speech  on  the  subject 
Crassus  pours  scorn  on  the  Greek  custom  of  hiring 
legal  advisers  (Trpayyaart/cot)  to  do  the  research-work 
necessary  for  a  sound  legal  opinion.^  Antonius  takes 
him  up  on  this  point  in  his  reply,  and  has  no  difficulty 
in  showing  that  the  Roman  practice  of  consulting 
eminent  jurists  was  based  on  the  same  principle, 
differing  only  in  the  greater  honour  accorded  to 
professional  lawyers  by  Roman  tradition.'     Cicero 

1  de  Or.  ii.  1-4  ;  i.  172,  248.  2  ^^  j  49^  234  ;  Brut.  145. 

^  Cf.  for  example  de  Or.  i.  255  with  de  Leg.  i.  11.       *  Brut.  150. 
5  de  Or.  i.  242-3  ;  Brut.  194r-7  ;  ^0  Mur.  23-9. 
«  ibid.  i.  198.  '  ibid.  i.  250-3. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  111 

is  plainly  aware  of  the  inevitable  distinction  between 
a  good  advocate  and  a  good  lawyer,  and  the 
contemporary  history  of  Roman  law  shows  that 
Antoniiis  is  voicing  a  common  experience  of  the 
Roman  forum.  Cato,  according  to  Cicero,  was 
a  great  jurist  as  well  as  a  great  statesman  and 
orator ;  ^  and  Cicero's  second  patron,  Scaevola 
Pontifex,  was  still  able  to  combine  the  two  functions 
of  jurist  and  advocate.-  Crassus  belonged  to  the 
same  traditions,  and  Cicero  calls  him  '  the  best 
lawyer  of  our  orators ',  whilst  Scaevola  was  '  the 
most  eloquent  of  our  lawyers '  .^  But  Scaevola 
Augur,  the  most  famous  jurist  of  the  family,  was  no 
orator  ;  *  and  the  break  between  the  two  professions 
is  best  illustrated  by  a  story  which  has  found  its  way 
into  the  Digest.  Servius  Sulpicius,  the  greatest 
jurist  of  Cicero's  day,  began  life  as  an  orator.  Like 
most  of  his  contemporaries,  he  depended  on  others 
for  his  knowledge  of  the  law,  and  had  once  to  consult 
Scaevola  Pontifex  on  a  difficult  legal  problem. 
Scaevola  gave  his  solution,  which  Sulpicius  could  not 
understand.  A  second  question  provoked  the  retort 
that  it  was  a  shame  for  a  Roman  advocate  to  be  so 
ignorant  of  Roman  law.  Sulpicius  took  the  rebuke 
to  heart  and  gave  himseK  wholly  to  the  study  of 
law :  ^  as  Cicero  puts  it,  '  he  preferred  to  be  first 
in  the  second  of  Roman  sciences  rather  than  second 
in  the  first ' .®    Henceforward,  no  Roman  was  famous 

1  de  Or.  i.  171  ;  iii.  135.  2  ^^iti.  i.  180. 

3  Brut.  145-8.  «  de  Or.  i.  39,  214. 

s  Pomponlus  in  Dig.  i.  2,  2,  43.  «  Brut.  151. 


112  THE  DE  ORATOitE 

as  both  orator  and  jurist,  and  the  distinction  between 
the  two  professions  becomes  more  and  more  marked 
with  the  ever-increasing  complexity  of  Roman  civil 
and  criminal  law. 

§  5.  Cicero's  theory  of  the  '  doctus  orator  \ 
Cicero's  plea  that  the  true  orator  must  also  be 
a  great  jurist  needs  to  be  qualified  in  the  light  of  his 
personal  experience  :  and  the  same  is  true  of  his 
argument  that  great  oratory  is  impossible  without 
a  study  of  philosophy.  That  argument  is  the 
culminating  point  of  his  educational  theory,  and  is 
stated  by  Crassus  in  the  third  book  of  the  de  Orator e} 
Early  in  the  dialogue  Crassus  had  already  stated  the 
argument  in  brief  outline,  and  had  stressed  in 
particular  the  need  for  a  careful  study  of  psychology, 
ethics,  and  politics :  physics  and  even  dialectics 
could  safely  be  neglected  as  less  directly  useful  for  an 
orator.^  Antonius  makes  a  similar  claim  in  the 
second  book,  once  more  stressing  ethics  and  politics 
as  essential  for  the  work  of  public  oratory.^  And 
now  in  the  third  book  Crassus  re-states  the  case  for 
philosophy  with  all  the  eloquence  at  his  command. 
The  pith  of  the  argument  as  stated  by  Crassus  in 
his  great  speech  may  be  summed  up  in  a  single 
phrase.  Cato  had  given  a  famous  counsel  of  perfec- 
tion to  his  son  :  '  Grasp  your  matter,  and  the  words 
will  come  of  themselves.'  ^  Cicero's  advice  is  founded 
on  the  same  principle,  but  its  wording  illustrates  all 

1  de  Or.  iii.  52-143.  ^  ^^i^  j  53,7  3  i^i^  ji  (35_7o. 

*  Cato,  apud  Jul.  Vict,  in  Rhet.  Lat.  Min.,  p.  374  (Halm). 


THE  DE  ORATORE  113 

the  difference  between  his  theory  of  eloquence  and 
Cato's  more  primitive  standards.  '  Abundance  of 
matter  will  give  abundance  of  words  '  :  ^  that  prin- 
ciple is  at  the  root  of  all  his  educational  theory, 
both  in  the  de  Oratore  and  in  the  later  dialogues. 
Psychology,  ethics,  politics,  dialectics,  even  physics  : 
all  these  must  be  studied,  not  for  their  own  worth, 
but  because  without  them  an  orator  may  often  fail 
in  the  knowledge  required  for  his  practical  work. 
'  The  choice  of  words,  their  proper  place,  and  rhythm 
is  easily  learnt,  or  can  be  picked  up  without  any 
teaching.  But  the  matter  of  oratory  presents  a  vast 
field,  which  the  Greeks  have  neglected  and  have 
thereby  been  the  cause  of  making  our  young  men 
ignorant  even  in  their  knowledge.'  ^  Crassus  main- 
tains that  the  proper  function  of  philosophy  is  to 
remedy  this  defect  in  an  orator's  training  ;  and  the 
*  wise  men '  whom  he  chooses  as  his  ideal  types  of 
culture  are  not  Plato,  Aristotle,  and  Chrysippus,  but 
(strange  assortment !)  Themistocles,  Pericles,  Thera- 
menes,  Gorgias,  Thrasymachus,  and  Isocrates.^ 

This  list  of  Greek  names  suggests  that  Cicero, 
according  to  his  usual  practice,  is  borrowing  from 
some  Greek  source  ;  and  a  little  later  in  the  dialogue 
Crassus  actually  uses  a  Greek  term  (ttoXltlkol  (j)iX6- 
(ro(f)OL)  to  describe  these  'philosophic  statesmen',  for 
we  can  hardly  call  them  philosophers.*  From  what 
Greek  source  is  Cicero  borrowing  ?  The  question  is 
of  peculiar  interest,  because  this  speech  of  Crassus 

1  de  Or.  iii.  125.  2  ^6^-^_  jij  93  3  if^^^^  m  59, 

*  ibid.  iii.  109. 

3029  T> 


114  THE  DE  ORATORE 

marks  the  culminating  point  of  the  de  Oratore  and  of 
Cicero's  whole  educational  theory.  Two  German 
scholars  have  attempted  an  answer,  and  the  result 
of  their  research  appears  to  be  solidly  established.^ 
The  whole  trend  of  Cicero's  thought  in  the  de  Oratore, 
his  insistence  on  the  ideal  of  a  cultured  orator  (doctus 
orator)  ^  who  shall  combine  the  excellences  of  both 
orator  and  philosopher,  suggests  at  once  the  influence 
of  the  New  Academy  as  it  had  been  recreated  by 
Arcesilaus  and  Carneades.  In  the  Orator,  Cicero 
makes  the  famous  confession  that  his  eloquence  was 
due  to  '  the  groves  of  the  Academy,  not  to  those 
workshops,  the  schools  of  rhetoric  '  ;  ^  and  in  his 
de  Fato  he  stresses  the  kinship  between  his  ideal  of 
oratory  and  the  teaching  of  the  Academy.*  These 
confessions  give  point  to  a  passage  in  the  de  Oratore 
where  Cotta,  one  of  the  minor  personages  in  the 
dialogue,  breaks  the  silence  which  has  followed  the 
great  speech  of  Crassus  with  the  remark  :  '  I  do  not 
know  what  influence  you  have  had  on  the  others,  but 
you  have  won  me  heart  and  soul  for  the  Academy.'  ^ 
Can  we  go  farther,  and  locate  more  precisely  the 
Greek  philosopher  whom  Cicero  is  following  ?  Cicero 
had  studied  under  two  heads  of  the  New  Academy, 
Philo  and  Antiochus,  and  it  is  tempting  to  claim  one 
or  other  as  the  real  author  of  the  theories  which 
Cicero  attributes  to  Crassus.  But  the  evidence  is  not 
conclusive  for  either  philosopher.     One  passage  in 

1  von  Arnira,  pp.  102  foil.  ;    Kroll  in  Rhein.  Mus.,  vol.  Iviii 
(1903),  pp.  552  foil.  2  ^g  Or.  iii.  143  ;  Kroll,  he.  cit. 

3  Or.  12.  *  de  Fato.  3.  ^  de  Or.  iii.  145. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  115 

which  emphasis  is  laid  on  the  distinction  between 
Old  and  New  Academy — a  distinction  denied  by 
Philo — suggests  the  hand  of  Antiochus/  But  a 
single  pln'ase  is  not  sufficient  to  decide  the  question, 
for  Cicero  uses  his  Greek  sources  very  freely  ;  and 
the  general  trend  of  the  argument  suggests  rather 
Philo' s  influence.  Philo,  we  know,  taught  rhetoric 
as  well  as  philosophy  :  a  practice  commended  by 
Crassus  in  the  de  Orator e.^  And  the  praise  of 
Carneades,^  followed  by  an  open  criticism  of  Plato's 
attitude  towards  oratory,*  can  hardly  be  reconciled 
with  the  loyalty  professed  by  Antiochus  for  the  Old 
Academy.  Lastly,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  very 
ideas  which  Crassus  states  so  fully  in  the  de  Oratore 
are  to  be  found,  stated  more  briefly  but  no  less 
clearly,  in  Cicero's  youthful  de  Inventione  :  ^  a  work 
written  and  published  when  his  enthusiasm  for 
Philo' s  lectures  on  rhetoric  and  philosophy  was  still 
a  recent  experience. 

Wherever  Cicero  got  his  theory  of  the  doctus  orator ^ 
he  believed  in  it  heart  and  soul.  Ten  years  later  he 
wrote  the  Orator  and  the  Brutus  in  defence  of  the 
same  ideal ;  ^  but  neither  dialogue  contains  a  passage 
of  greater  eloquence  than  this  speech  of  Crassus  in 
the  third  book  of  the  de  Oratore.  Its  concluding 
words  must  be  quoted  in  full : 

'  Some  may  prefer  to  call  the  kind  of  philosopher  who  can 

1  de  Or.  iii.  67  ;  Acad.  i.  13  ;  Kroll,  loc.  cit.,  p.  555. 

2  de  Or.  iii.  72,  80,  110. 

»  ibid.  iii.  68-71.  -»  ibid.  iii.  60,  122,  129. 

6  de  Inv.  ii.  0-8.  «  Or.  14  ;  Brut.  322. 


116  THE  DE  ORATORE 

supply  us  with  material  for  our  eloquence  an  orator  ;  others  may 
prefer  to  call  the  orator  whom  I  have  defined  as  uniting  wisdom 
with  eloquence  a  philosopher.  To  me  the  name  matters  little, 
provided  it  be  granted  that  praise  is  due  neither  to  the  man  who 
knows  his  matter  but  cannot  give  it  expression  for  lack  of  the 
ability  to  speak,  nor  to  the  man  who  is  never  at  a  loss  for  words 
but  has  no  information  to  give.  Certainly,  were  I  forced  to 
choose,  I  would  prefer  to  be  wise  and  unable  to  speak  than  to  be 
a  talkative  fool ;  but  when  I  am  asked  what  is  the  highest 
excellence  of  all,  I  give  the  palm  to  the  cultured  orator  {doctus 
orator).  Grant  me  that  such  a  man  is  also  a  philosopher,  and  the 
controversy  is  at  an  end.  But  if  the  distinction  be  maintained, 
then,  since  the  perfect  orator  has  all  the  philosopher's  learning, 
whilst  knowledge  of  philosophy  does  not  always  imply  eloquence, 
our  adversaries  must  admit  a  certain  inferiority.  They  reject  our 
eloquence,  of  course  ;  but  it  seems  to  me  beyond  dispute  that 
oratory  is  capable  of  adding  a  certain  perfection  to  their  science.'  ^ 

A  detail  of  method  to  which  Crassus  refers  in  this 
speech  is  interesting  in  the  light  of  Cicero's  own 
practice.  Ever  since  the  days  of  Hermagoras,  who 
had  divided  the  subject-matter  of  declamation  into 
topics  of  an  abstract  nature  or  '  theses  '  (^eVeis),  and 
topics  of  a  more  personal  character  (vTro^eVet?),^  the 
former  class  of  topics  had  formed  a  sort  of  disputed 
territory  between  the  schools  of  rhetoric  and  the 
schools  of  philosophy.  Cicero  gives  us  examples  of 
these  '  theses  '  in  his  de  Inventione  :  '  Is  there  any 
good  save  upright  conduct  ? '  '  Are  the  senses  true 
or  false  ?  '  '  What  is  the  shape  of  the  world  and  the 
size  of  the  sun  ?  '  ^  Hermagoras  had  claimed  for  the 
schools  of  rhetoric  the  right  to  teach  such  abstract 
subjects  :  and  his  claim  had  been  resented  by  the 
philosophers  as  an  infringement  of  their  traditional 

1  de  Or.  iii.  142-3.        ^  Thiele,  pp.  27  foil.        ^  de  Inv.  i.  8. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  117 

rights.^  In  his  de  Inventione  Cicero  rejects  the  claim 
of  Hermagoras  as  pretentious.  '  He  understands 
neither  the  meaning  of  his  own  words  nor  the  full 
extent  of  his  claim  '  ;  and  he  adds  that  he  would 
sooner  take  away  from  Hermagoras  the  right  to 
teach  rhetoric  than  grant  him  the  right  to  teach 
philosophy.^ 

Yet  in  the  de  Oratore  Crassus  expressly  includes  the 
practice  of  declaiming  such  abstract  '  theses  '  in  his 
programme  of  higher  studies.  '  At  present ',  he  says, 
'  it  is  in  use  only  among  the  Peripatetics  and  in  the 
Academy,  but  the  ancients,  from  whom  we  borrow 
all  our  theory  of  oratory  and  all  our  eloquence,  used 
it  regularly '  ;  and  he  specially  commends  Philo  for 
his  revival  of  the  old  practice.^  There  is  here  no  real 
change  from  Cicero's  earlier  teaching  in  the  de 
Inventione.  Hermagoras  is  there  condemned,  not 
because  his  abstract  '  theses  '  are  a  bad  training  for 
the  future  orator,  but  expressly  because  of  his  own 
lack  of  culture  and  general  education.  In  the 
de  Oratore  Crassus  assumes  that  '  theses  '  will  be 
practised  under  the  guidance  of  a  philosopher  like 
Philo,  or  at  least  of  one  who  has  studied  philosophy. 
Cicero  is  plainly  thinking  of  his  own  practice.  In 
a  letter  written  to  his  brother  only  a  year  after  the 
publication  of  the  de  Oratore  he  compares  his  method 
of  teaching  with  the  methods  of  his  nephew's  tutor, 
Paeonius  ;  and  the  epithet  with  which  he  qualifies 
his  own  method  (denKuiTepov)  is  reminiscent  of  this 

1  Plut.  Pomp.  42  ;  Amim,  pp.  93  foil.  2  ^g  /^^  j  g. 

3  de  Or.  iii.  107-8,  110. 


118  THE  DE  ORATORE 

controversy.*  It  is  amusing  to  note  that  Cicero's 
nephew  found  his  uncle's  lessons  dull,  and  preferred 
the  tutor's  livelier  classes.  The  orator  consoles  him- 
self with  the  thought  that  he  himself  had  passed 
through  the  same  stage,  and  that  the  young  boy  will 
one  day  be  as  good  a  philosopher  as  his  uncle.  In  the 
meantime  practice  in  these  semi-philosophical  theses 
would  be  useful  as  a  link  between  the  study  of 
rhetoric  and  the  study  of  philosophy  ;  and  that  is 
precisely  the  purpose  they  serve  in  Cicero's  whole 
educational  theory.  Cicero  drives  home  this  lesson, 
not  only  in  the  de  Oratore,  but  also  in  the  Brutus, 
the  Topica,  and  the  Tusculan  Disputations.^ 

6.     Ciceronian  '  Humanitas  '. 

Literature,  rhetoric,  history,  law,  philosophy : 
these  are  the  five  studies  without  which  Cicero's  ideal 
of  the  doctus  orator  would  be  incomplete.  Later  in 
life,  under  the  stress  of  public  calamities,  Cicero 
tended  to  lay  greater  emphasis  on  philosophy  as  the 
sole  moral  and  intellectual  guide  for  men ;  and  the 
Hortensius,  in  which  Cicero  himself  takes  the  place 
held  by  Crassus  in  the  de  Oratore,  whilst  Hortensius 
plays  the  part  of  Antonius,  was  written  to  convey 
this  lesson.  But  the  contrast  between  Cicero  and 
Hortensius  is  not  the  contrast  suggested  to  our 
modern  thought  by  the  words  '  philosopher '  and 
'  orator  '  :  it  is  rather  the  contrast  between  an  orator 
who  lacks  Cicero's  politior  humanitas  and  a  man — call 

1  ad  Q.  fr.  iii.  3,  4. 

2  Brut.  322  ;  Top.  79-86  ;  Tusc.  i.  7  ;  ii.  9. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  119 

him  doctus  orator  or  7roXtrt/c6?  (/)tXocro(^o?,  as  you  will — 
whose  culture  is  due  to  the  studies  commended  by 
Crassus  in  the  de  Oratore.  The  few  fragments  of  the 
Hortensius  which  have  survived  show  us  this  funda- 
mental unity  of  Cicero's  teaching.  Here,  as  in  the 
de  Oratore,  Cicero  presupposes  the  artes  liberates  as 
the  basis  of  a  philosophic  culture  ;  ^  and  the  dialogue, 
which  was  written  to  praise  philosophy  at  the 
expense  of  oratory,  contained  a  panegyric  of  oratory 
by  Hortensius  ^  and  of  history  by  LucuUus.^ 

The  truth  is  that  neither  '  philosopher '  nor 
*  orator '  is  an  adequate  term  for  Cicero's  ideal. 
Only  one  word  gives  full  expression  to  that  ideal — 
humanitas,  or  its  corresponding  epithet,  humanus  : 
a  word  which  recurs  almost  on  every  page  of  the 
de  Oratore.'^  In  the  short  conversation  between 
Crassus  and  Scaevola  which  serves  as  prologue  to  the 
whole  dialogue,  the  word's  full  meaning  is  illustrated 
by  a  characteristic  phrase.  Crassus  has  delivered 
a  panegyric  on  oratory,  and  his  praises  culminate  in 
the  double  claim  that  oratory  carries  to  its  highest 
perfection  the  faculty  of  speech  by  which  man  is 
distinguished  from  the  brute  creation,  and  has  also 
raised  man  from  the  debased  surroundings  of  pri- 
mitive society  to  the  cultured  social  civilization  with 
which  his  listeners  are  familiar  {ad  hunc  Jiumanu7n 
cultum  civilemque).^  The  word,  here  used  for  the 
first  time  in  the  dialogue,  runs  like  a  thread  of  gold 

1  Hortens.  fr.  23  (Mueller).  2  ^f^i^i  fj..  45  (Mueller). 

3  ibid.  fr.  11  (Mueller). 

*  Schneidewin  (pp.  31-40)  gives  a  full  lexicography. 

6  de  Or.  i.  33. 


120  THE  DE  ORATORE 

through  all  the  discussions  and  digressions  of  the 
de  Oratore,  taking  on  countless  shades  of  meaning 
under  the  play  of  Cicero's  thought,  but  always 
recalling  in  its  varying  use  the  fundamental  idea  of 
human  excellence  which  Crassus  here  expresses.  To 
be  a  man  in  all  that  is  most  human,  and  to  be  human 
in  one's  relations  with  all  other  men  ;  that  is  Cicero's 
ethical  and  social  ideal,  and  his  educational  theory  is 
based  on  the  same  principle.  A  phrase  from  a  later 
portion  of  the  de  Oratore  shows  why  this  ideal 
inevitably  led  Cicero  to  formulate  a  programme  of 
studies  which  is  as  Greek  as  it  is  Roman.  '  We  must 
borrow  our  virtues  from  Rome  and  our  culture  from 
Greece  '  :  ^  those  few  words  express  in  brief  form  the 
whole  of  Cicero's  educational  theory. 

But  the  word  humanitas  has  a  double  interest  for 
readers  of  the  de  Oratore.  Several  modern  critics 
have  failed  to  find  unity  of  thought  or  dramatic 
construction  in  the  great  orator's  favourite  dialogue:  ^ 
a  failure  which  arises  from  their  wrong  interpretation 
of  Cicero's  purpose  in  composing  the  dialogue.  Some 
have  interpreted  the  de  Oratore  as  an  attack  on  the 
Latini  rhetores :  ^  others  as  an  attack  on  Greek 
teachers  of  rhetoric  ;  *  others  as  a  criticism  of  all 
forms  of  rhetoric  as  taught  in  Greek  and  Roman 
schools.^  This  last  view  comes  nearest  to  the  truth, 
but  is  incomplete  as  an  interpretation  of  the  dialogue 

1  de  Or.  iii.  137.  2  gchanz,  i.  2,  p.  298. 

3  Marx,  p.  141  ;  Norden,  i,  p.  222. 


"  Marx,  p.  Ill  ;  iNoraen,  1,  p.  zzz. 
^  Laurand,  p.  11,  n.  1,  gives  names. 
5  ibid.  pp.  1-12  ;  KroU  in  TeufEel  (e 


6),  i,  p.  394. 


THE  DE  ORATORE  121 

as  a  whole.  Cicero's  object  is  positive,  not  negative  : 
he  has  an  ideal  of  his  own  to  put  forward,  and  that 
ideal  is  best  expressed  by  the  word  humanus.  Once 
this  central  thought  is  grasped,  the  dramatic  unity 
of  the  dialogue  becomes  apparent.  The  three  books 
of  which  it  is  composed  represent  three  distinct 
conversations  held  in  the  course  of  two  days.  During 
the  first  conversation  Crassus  is  represented  as  the 
ideal  type  of  hiimanitas,  illustrating  the  dual  meaning 
of  that  elusive  word  as  much  by  the  courtesy  of  his 
manner  as  by  the  intellectual  refinement  of  his  talk  : 
his  humanitas  in  this  double  aspect  is  especially  noted 
by  Cotta,  the  imaginary  reporter  of  the  conversa- 
tions.^ Antonius,  on  the  other  hand,  appears  as  a 
foil  to  Crassus  in  all  this  part  of  the  dialogue.  He 
boasts  openly  of  his  lack  of  education,  and  is  never 
weary  of  insisting  on  the  practical  needs  of  life.^ 

Next  morning  all  is  changed.  Antonius  opens  his 
discourse  on  rhetoric  with  a  praise  of  oratory  almost 
identical  in  its  phraseology  with  the  earlier  speech 
of  Crassus  ;  ^  and  his  theory  of  rhetoric  is  in  perfect 
harmony  with  the  principles  expounded  by  Crassus 
in  the  first  and  third  books.  Since  Antonius  is  here 
the  principal  exponent  of  Cicero's  theory,  the  change 
of  front  could  hardly  have  been  avoided  ;  but  Cicero 
is  too  good  an  artist  to  let  it  pass  unnoticed.  In  an 
admirably  vivid  preface  to  the  second  book  he 
explains  that  Antonius  affected  in  public  a  contempt 
for  all  literary  studies  which  he  did  not  really  feel  ;  * 

1  de  Or.  i.  27.  2  i^i^  j  go_95^  208,  260-4. 

3  ibid.  ii.  33-8  =i.  30^.  ^  ibid.  ii.  1-4. 

3029  n 


122  THE  DE  ORATORE 

and  a  further  explanation  is  inserted  in  the  dialogue 
itself.  Crassus,  who  has  been  listening  to  the  opening 
speech  of  Antonius,  interrupts  him  with  a  gesture 
of  surprise  :  '  You  have  been  civilized  over-night, 
Antonius,  and  are  now  a  man  '  {Nox  te  nobis,  Antoni, 
expolivit  hominemque  reddidit)  ;  and  he  goes  on  to 
contrast  his  new  attitude  with  the  lack  of  culture 
{humanitas)  which  he  had  shown  on  the  preceding 
day.^  Cicero  could  hardly  have  given  a  plainer  hint 
as  to  the  inner  meaning  of  his  dialogue.  It  is  true 
that  Crassus  is  represented  throughout  as  an  admirer 
of  all  Greek  studies,  whilst  Antonius  is  more  con- 
cerned with  the  practical  problem  of  success  in  the 
forum  ;  and  there  is  no  formal  reconciliation  of  the 
two  views  at  the  end  of  the  dialogue.  But  both  men 
are  united  in  their  opinion  that  culture — humanitas — 
is  essential  to  all  great  oratory  and  to  all  proper 
civic  virtue.  Both  would  have  agreed  with  the  words 
which  Cicero  puts  into  the  mouth  of  Scipio  in  that 
other  dialogue  which  he  planned  as  the  companion- 
piece  to  his  de  Oratore :  '  We  are  all  called  men,  but 
only  those  of  us  are  men  who  have  been  civilized  by 
the  studies  proper  to  culture '  {Appellari  ceteros 
homines,  esse  solos  eos  qui  essent  politi  propriis 
humanitatis  artibus).^  All  the  teaching  of  the  de 
Oratore  is  contained  in  that  phrase. 

1  de  Or.  ii.  40.  2  ^g  j^^^  j  28. 


VII 

REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

'  Cogitaret  plebem,  quae  toga  enitesceret :  sublatis  studiorum 
pretiis,  etiam  studia  peritura.'     Tac.  Ann.  xi.  7. 

1.  Decline  of  the  Roman  Aristocracy. 
Towards  the  end  of  his  Brutus  Cicero  remarks  that 
none  of  his  rivals  in  the  forum  were  men  of  really  wide 
culture  :  none  but  himself  had  the  necessary  fami- 
liarity with  Greek  and  Roman  literature ;  none  had 
studied  philosophy,  jurisprudence,  and  history ;  none 
had  fully  mastered  the  technique  of  rhetorical  style 
and  composition.^  The  statement  is  obviously  too 
sweeping  to  be  taken  Uterally  ;  but  it  must  have  been 
true  of  many  who,  like  Hortensius,  relied  chiefly  on 
their  natural  talent  for  success  intheforum.^  On  the 
other  hand,  no  period  in  Roman  history  was  so 
genuinely  imbued  with  Greek  culture  at  its  best  as 
the  last  century  of  the  Republic.  Sulla,  LucuUus, 
Julius  Caesar,  Sallust,  Cato,  Varro,  Brutus,  Atticus, 
Servius  Sulpicius,  Cornelius  Nepos  :  these  are  all 
names  which  recall,  hardly  less  than  the  great  names 
of  Scipio's  generation,  what  Cicero  meant  by  his 
phrase  j>olitior  humanitas.  Almost  without  excep- 
tion, too,  they  are  names  belonging  to  one  or  other 
of  the  great  Roman  gentes ;  and  the  connexion 
between  the  culture  and  the  ancestry  of  these  men, 
1  Brut.  322.  2  n^i^i  320  foil. 


124  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

among  whom  Cicero  was  and  knew  himself  to  be 
a  novus  homo,  recalls  the  essentially  Roman  character 
of  their  humanitas. 

Outside  this  exclusive  Roman  aristocracy  the 
influence  of  Greek  philosophy  and  Greek  literature 
was  less  potent ;  the  days  of  Marius  and  his  imitators 
were  definitely  at  an  end.  Caesar  was  now  the 
acknowledged  head  of  the  democratic  party,  and  the 
young  men  whom  he  gathered  round  him — Mark 
Antony,  Dolabella,  Curio,  Caelius,  and  Sallust,  for 
example — were  very  different  from  the  men  whose 
interests  had  been  catered  for  by  Plotius  Gallus. 
Nor  was  rhetoric  the  only  Greek  study  which  had 
increased  its  popularity  since  the  days  of  Marius. 
The  first  Latin  text-books  of  philosophy  were  being 
produced  about  this  time,  and  it  is  worth  noting 
that  the  Epicureans  were  here  first  in  the  field. ^ 
Cicero  complains  more  than  once  of  the  harm  which 
their  text-books  were  doing  in  half-educated  circles  ; 
but  Lucretius,  Virgil,  and  Horace,  all  of  them  ple- 
beians by  birth,  are  no  bad  specimens  of  Epicurean 
teaching.^ 

The  generation  of  Cicero  and  his  contemporaries 
merges  almost  imperceptibly  into  the  Augustan  age, 
and  the  culture  of  the  great  Augustans  is  in  a  sense  the 
autumn  of  Ciceronian  humanitas.  Livy  is  perhaps  the 
best  type  of  this  new  Ciceronianism,  with  his  reve- 
rence for  Roman  traditions  and  his  quick  responsive- 

1  Tusc.  iv.  6  ;  Acad.  i.  5  ;  Schanz,  i.  2,  p.  339. 

2  Frank,  pp.  48  foil.  ;  Norden  in  Neue  Jahrb.  fur  das  klass. 
AUertum,  vol.  vii,  1  (1901),  p.  270. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  125 

ness  to  the  Greek  ideal.  For  Livy  was  not  merely 
a  historian.  A  keen  student  of  both  rhetoric  and 
philosophy,  he  wrote  philosophical  dialogues  which 
Seneca  describes  as  more  historical  than  philo- 
sophical ;  ^  and  he  dedicated  an  essay  on  rhetoric 
to  his  son,  with  the  advice  that  he  should  remain 
faithful  to  the  traditions  of  Demosthenes  and 
Cicero.^  But  the  contrast  between  Livy's  elaborate 
periods  and  the  more  vigorous  energy  of  Cicero's 
style  is  characteristic  of  a  subtle  change  in  the  moral 
atmosphere  of  Rome.  For  whilst  Livy  and  Cicero 
have  in  common  their  love  for  Greek  thought  and 
literature  and  their  reverence  for  the  glories  of 
ancient  Rome,  the  historian  has  learnt  to  look  back 
on  these  glories  as  an  achievement  which  can  never  be 
repeated  ;  turning  more  and  more  from  the  present 
to  the  past,  and  looking  forward  to  the  future  with 
something  more  than  the  apprehension  of  Cicero's 
later  days.  The  same  half-conscious  pessimism 
is  present  even  in  the  most  confidently  optimistic 
passages  of  Virgil's  Aeneid.  Cicero  died  without 
leaving  a  successor,  and  it  was  to  be  the  same  with 
both  Virgil  and  Livy. 

Meanwhile  a  greater  than  Livy  was  using  his 
influence  to  maintain  the  traditions  of  Ciceronian 
humanitas.  In  his  life  of  Cicero,  Plutarch  tells  a  story 
of  the  emperor  Augustus  which  illustrates  the  dead 
orator's  influence  on  the  Augustan  age.^    Many  years 

1  Sen.  Epp.  100,  9  ;  Hirzel,  ii,  p.  21. 

2  Quint.  X.  1,  39  ;  viii.  2,  18. 

»  Plut.  Cic.  49  ;  Zielinski,  pp.  9  foil. 


126  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

after  Cicero's  death  one  of  the  emperor's  grandsons 
was  reading  a  work  by  Cicero,  possibly  one  of  the 
Philippics.  Augustus  entered  unexpectedly  and  the 
boy,  startled  at  his  approach,  hid  the  book  in  the 
folds  of  his  tunic.  Augustus  had  seen  the  movement : 
taking  the  book  from  his  grandson,  he  opened  it  and 
stood  reading  for  some  time.  Then  he  handed  it  back 
with  the  words  :  '  A  great  intellect,  my  child ;  a 
great  intellect  and  a  true  patriot.'  The  story  may 
be  an  invention  ;  or,  if  true,  may  well  have  been 
circulated  by  the  emperor  himseK  to  make  men 
forget  the  manner  of  Cicero's  death.  It  is  none  the 
less  significant.  Cicero's  influence  could  not  be 
ignored,  least  of  all  by  the  man  responsible  for  his 
murder. 

And,  apart  from  memories  of  personal  antagonism, 
the  emperor's  Ciceronianism  was  no  pose  :  his  cul- 
ture was  the  true  Ciceronian  humanitas.  A  literary 
purist  in  his  style,  he  probably  had  studied  in  the 
school  of  some  Alexandrian  grammaticus  :  all  the 
more  so  because  his  great-uncle,  Julius  Caesar,  was 
a  champion  of  the  Analogists.^  His  teachers  of 
rhetoric,  Suetonius  tells  us,  were  M.  Epidius  and 
ApoUodorus  of  Pergamon,  one  a  Roman,  the  other 
a  Greek  ;  ^  and,  just  as  Cicero  had  made  Diodotus 
his  constant  companion  and  adviser,  so  Augustus 
kept  his  tutor  Arius  Didymus  and  his  two  sons 
Dionysius  and  Nicanor,  as  members  of  the  imperial 
household.^   Nor  does  the  parallelism  with  Cicero  end 

1  Suet.  Jul  56  ;  Oct.  8.  2  n^i^  QcL  84,  89  ;  Rhet.  1,  4. 

3  ibid.  Oct.  89  ;  Gardthausen,  i.  1,  p.  50  ;  iii.  I,  p.  1313. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  127 

here.  Augustus  published  late  in  life  his  Exhorta- 
Hones  ad  philosophiam,  most  probably  modelled,  like 
Cicero's  Hortensius,  on  the  Protrepticus  of  Posi- 
donius  ;  ^  and  his  interest  in  Greek  and  Roman 
history  is  no  less  Ciceronian. 

'  Nothing  in  his  reading  ',  says  Suetonius,  '  interested  him  so 
much  as  precepts  or  examples  which  might  be  of  use  in  his 
private  or  public  life.  He  had  the  habit  of  copying  these  out  in 
full  and  sending  them  to  his  friends  or  to  officials  such  as  the 
generals  of  his  armies,  the  governors  of  his  provinces,  the  magis- 
trates of  Rome,  whoever  he  thought  stood  in  need  of  advice.'  ^ 

One  name  mentioned  by  Suetonius  in  his  list  of 
the  future  emperor's  tutors  deserves  fuller  notice. 
Apollodorus  of  Pergamon  is  named  by  Quintilian  as 
the  founder  of  an  important  school  of  rhetoric  ;  ^ 
and  there  is  good  reason  for  attributing  to  his 
influence  that  school  of  '  Atticist '  purism  in  literary 
style  to  which  Brutus,  Sallust,  Octavian,  and  Pollio 
belonged,  and  against  which  Cicero  defends  his  own 
'  Rhodian  '  style  in  the  Brutus  and  Orator^  The 
controversy  has  no  permanent  importance  in  the 
history  of  Roman  education,  but  it  accounts  for  one 
curious  personal  episode  in  the  history  of  Cicero's 
influence  on  the  Augustan  age.  Asinius  Pollio  is  in 
many  ways  the  most  outstanding  literary  figure  of 
his  generation,  and  he  was  certainly  the  direct 
inheritor  of  Cicero's  literary  traditions.  Like  Sallust, 
he  was  a  Caesarian  in  politics  and  an  Atticist  in  his 

1  Suet.  Oct.  85  ;  Hirzel,  ii,  p.  2.  2  g^e^  q^i  39 

3  Quint,  iii.  1,  17. 

*  Schanz  in  Hermes,  vol.  xxv  (1890),  pp.  36-54  ;  Wilamowitz, 
ibid.,  vol.  XXXV  (1900),  p.  46. 


128  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

oratorical  style,  and  must  somehow  or  another  have 
wounded  Cicero's  vanity  :  for  the  most  biting  sar- 
casms in  the  Orator  are  directed  against  the  two 
Atticist  historians/  Pollio  retorted  by  an  unsparing 
attack  on  Cicero's  memory  in  his  history  of  the  civil 
wars,^  and  the  feud  was  carried  on  by  his  son  who 
wrote  a  book  on  the  subject.^  A  delightful  scene 
described  by  the  elder  Seneca  puts  the  whole  episode 
in  its  proper  light.  Messalla,  one  of  Pollio' s  rivals 
in  the  forum  and  himself  a  distinguished  orator  of 
Cicero's  school,  had  invited  Pollio  to  a  recitation  in 
his  house.  A  Spanish  poet  from  Corduba  was  to  read 
a  poem  on  Cicero's  death,  and  began  his  recitation 
with  the  pompous  hexameter  : 

Conticuit  Latiae  tristis  facundia  linguae. 
Pollio  at  once  got  up  from  his  seat  and  left  the  room., 
'  You  may  do  what  you  like  in  your  own  house, 
Messalla,'  he  said,  '  but  I  am  not  prepared  to  listen 
to  a  man  who  thinks  me  dumb.'  * 

Pollio  was  an  influential  personage  in  literary 
circles,  and  his  anti-Ciceronian  attitude  may  have 
helped  to  turn  the  younger  generation  away  from 
Ciceronian  traditions  ;  ^  but  the  causes  of  reaction 
lay  deeper.  The  fall  of  the  Republic  and  the  conse- 
quent loss  of  freedom  in  public  life  brought  about 
a  sudden  drop  in  Roman  traditions  of  citizenship 
which  cannot  be  ignored,  and  new  standards  are 
apparent  in  Roman  education  as  in  everything  else. 

1  Or.  30-2  ;   Zielinski,  p.  33.  2  gen.  Suas.  6,  14,  24-5. 

3  Plin.  Epp.  vii.  4,  3  ;  Suet.  Claud.  41. 

*  Sen.  Suas.  6,  27.  ^  Zielinski,  pp.  33  foil. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  129 

'  Our  young  men  have  grown  slothful ',  says  the  elder  Seneca, 
writing  at  the  end  of  the  Augustan  age  ;  '  their  talents  are  left 
idle,  and  there  is  not  a  single  honourable  occupation  for  which 
they  will  toil  day  and  night.  Slumber  and  languor,  and  an 
interest  in  evil  which  is  worse  than  slumber  and  languor,  have 
entered  into  men's  hearts.  They  sing  and  dance  and  grow 
effeminate,  and  curl  their  hair,  and  learn  womanish  tricks  of 
speech  :  they  are  as  languid  as  women,  and  deck  themselves 
with  unbecoming  ornaments.  Which  of  your  contemporaries 
[he  is  addressing  his  three  sons]  has  any  talent,  any  industry  ? 
Which  of  them  is  in  any  way  a  man  ?  Without  strength,  without 
energy,  they  add  nothing  during  life  to  the  gifts  with  which  they 
were  bom,  and  then  they  complain  of  their  lot.  God  forbid  that 
the  gift  of  eloquence  should  be  given  to  their  like  !  '  ^ 

The  passage  is  rhetorical,  but  Seneca  is  writing  of 
what  he  had  seen  ;  and  there  is  other  evidence  of  the 
same  sort.  It  is  perhaps  forcing  a  point  to  take  the 
contrast  between  Cicero's  student-days  and  the 
student-days  of  his  son  as  typical  of  the  general 
change  ;  but  the  experience  of  father  and  son  is  so 
curiously  modern  that  some  at  least  of  the  details 
must  be  quoted.  They  belong  to  a  period  more  than 
half  a  century  earlier  than  the  date  of  Seneca's 
Controversiae. 

Two  years  before  his  death  Cicero  sent  his  son  for 
a  couple  of  years  to  Athens,  there  to  study  rhetoric 
and  philosophy,  as  he  himself  had  done.  We  still 
have  the  letters  in  which  he  arranges  with  Atticus 
for  a  proper  financial  allowance  to  be  paid  his  son 
at  regular  intervals.^  '  See  that  he  has  everything  he 
wants  ',  the  orator  writes.    '  I  regard  it  as  a  question 


^  Sen.  Contr.  i,  jpraej.  8-9. 

2  ad  Alt.  xii.  24  ;  xiv.  7,  2  ;  11,2;  17,  5  ;  xv.  15,  4  ;  xvi.  1,  5. 


130  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

of  our  good  name  and  dignity  as  well  as  a  duty  : 
you  will  agree,  I  am  sure.'  ^  Then  there  is  an  interval 
without  news.  The  boy  is  not  writing  home,  and 
one  of  his  tutors  has  sent  an  unsatisfactory  report : 
Cicero  begins  to  think  that  he  had  better  go  over  to 
Athens  himself.^  The  political  situation  here  changes 
suddenly  :  Cicero  is  called  to  Rome,  and  the  journey 
is  off.^  But  his  protests  have  had  their  effect. 
Young  Marcus  writes  at  last  to  his  father  :  such  an 
affectionate  and  elegantly  worded  letter  that  his 
father  is  sure  all  must  be  well.*  And  Trebonius, 
a  friend  who  has  been  to  Athens,  writes  that  Cicero's 
son  is  hard  at  work,  is  the  most  pleasant  young  man 
in  all  Athens,  and  is  very  anxious  to  make  a  trip  to 
Asia  in  company  with  Trebonius  and  his  tutor 
Cratippus.^  Cicero's  correspondence  was  edited  by 
Tiro  after  the  orator's  death,  and  Tiro  must  have 
chuckled  as  he  added  to  the  collection  a  letter  which 
he  himself  had  received  from  Marcus  a  few  months 
later.  After  a  few  words  of  thanks  for  letters 
received  by  the  last  post,  it  continues  as  follows  : 

'  I  am  sure,  my  dearest  Tiro,  that  the  reports  about  me  which 
reach  you  answer  your  best  wishes  and  hopes.  I  will  make  them 
good,  and  will  do  my  best  that  this  beginning  of  a  good  report 
may  be  daily  repeated.  So  you  may  with  perfect  confidence 
fulfil  your  promise  of  being  the  trumpeter  of  my  reputation.  For 
the  errors  of  my  youth  have  caused  me  so  much  remorse  and 
suffering  that  it  is  not  only  my  heart  that  shrinks  from  what  I 
did — my  very  ears  abhor  the  mention  of  it.  I  know  for  a  fact 
that  you  have  shared  my  trouble  and  sorrow,  and  I  don't  wonder  : 

1  ad  AH.  xiv.  7,  2.  -  ibid.  xiv.  16,  3.  »  n^i^  ^vi.  7,  1. 

*  ibid.  XV.  16  ;   17,  2.  ^  ad  Fam.  xii.  16. 


PvE ACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  131 

you  always  wished  me  to  do  well,  not  for  my  sake  only  but  for 
your  own.  So  as  I  have  been  the  means  of  giving  you  pain,  I  will 
now  take  care  that  you  shall  feel  double  joy  on  my  account.' 

And  the  rest  of  the  letter  is  a  description  of  his 
virtuous  conduct.  Cratippus  is  a  real  father  to  him  : 
'  I  enjoy  his  lectures,  but  I  am  especially  charmed  by 
his  delightful  manners.'  He  is  practising  declamation 
every  day,  both  in  Greek  and  Latin  ;  and  has  been 
careful  to  drop  a  tutor  who  was  not  to  his  father's 
liking.  Of  course  there  is  a  little  occasional  fun  ; 
but  that 's  to  be  expected.  And  he  ends  by  poking 
some  quiet  fun  at  Tiro  himself  :  '  How  clearly  I  see 
your  dearest  face  before  me  at  this  moment  !  I  can 
see  you  buying  things  for  the  farm,  talking  to  your 
bailiff,  saving  the  seeds  at  dessert  in  your  cloak. '  ^ 

Alas  for  the  vanity  of  good  resolutions  !  Tiro  knew 
well  what  had  happened  to  Marcus  when  he  published 
that  letter.  '  Don't  doubt,  my  dear  Tiro  ',  the  boy 
had  written,  '  about  my  helping  you  in  the  future, 
if  fortune  will  but  stand  by  me.'  Fortune  failed 
Cicero's  son  as  she  failed  so  many  of  his  friends  and 
political  allies.  When  next  we  hear  of  Marcus,  he 
is  a  young  man  about  town  after  the  manner  of  Ovid, 
chiefly  famous  for  his  drinking  bouts.  '  There  was 
nothing  of  the  father  in  him  ',  says  the  elder  Seneca, 
'  save  his  wit.'  ^ 

The  class  most  affected  by  this  decline  in  the  sense 
of  civic  responsibility  was,  of  course,  precisely  the 

1  ad  Fam.  xvi.  21  ;  Warde  Fowler  {Social  Life,  pp.  200-3) 
gives  a  translation  of  the  whole  text. 

2  Sen.  Suas.  7,  13. 


132  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

class  for  which  Cicero  had  written  his  de  Oratore  : 
the  ideal  of  the  doctiis  orator  lost  half  its  meaning 
when  public  oratory  ceased  to  be  a  main  factor  in 
Roman  political  life.  One  symptom  of  the  loss  to 
Roman  education  caused  by  these  changed  circum- 
stances has  often  been  overlooked.  The  old  custom 
of  the  tirocinium  fori  was  a  valuable  element  in 
Roman  education,  even  as  late  as  the  end  of  the 
Republic.  Cicero  himself  gave  others  the  benefit  of 
his  experience  in  this  way,  and  young  Caelius  was 
one  of  those  who  got  their  first  lessons  in  political 
life  from  the  great  orator.^  But  the  fall  of  the 
Republic  made  the  tirocinium  fori  an  idle  pretence, 
for  the  forum  was  now  no  longer  the  centre  of  Roman 
life.  Its  place  was  taken  by  a  ceremonial  entry  on 
public  life,  apparently  connected  with  the  putting 
on  of  the  toga  virilis.  Augustus,  a  conservative  in  all 
externals,  made  much  of  this  ceremony,  and  had 
himself  nominated  consul  for  the  two  years  in  which 
he  introduced  his  grandsons.  Gains  and  Lucius,  to 
the  forum.  ^  Tiberius  went  through  the  same  cere- 
mony for  his  son  Drusus,^  and  Claudius  made  Nero's 
tirocinium  fori  the  occasion  of  a  largess  to  the 
people  and  the  army.*  Nor  was  the  ceremony  con- 
fined to  the  imperial  family,  for  Seneca  mentions  it 
as  a  regular  feature  of  Roman  life.^  But  it  was 
a  ceremony,  and  no  more.  In  his  Dialogue  on 
Orators  Tacitus  speaks  of  the  old  custom  as  a  thing 
of  the  past. 

1  Cic.  pro  Gael.  9.  ^  g^et.  Oct.  26  ;  Mon.  Anc.  3,  3. 

3  ihid.  Tib.  15.  ^  ibid.  Nero,  7.  ^  Sen.  Ej>j).  4,  2. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  133 

*  In  the  days  of  our  ancestors  ',  he  says,  '  if  a  young  man  was 
being  prepared  for  the  forum  and  public  oratory,  once  he  had 
been  given  the  ordinary  home-education  and  had  mastered  all 
the  liberal  arts  {honesta  studio),  he  was  brought  by  his  father  or 
his  relatives  to  the  most  distinguished  orator  in  Rome.  By 
following  him  about  and  mixing  with  his  company  the  young  man 
had  an  opportunity  of  listening  to  all  his  speeches  in  the  law- 
courts  or  at  a  public  meeting ;  and  by  hearing  his  patron  in 
a  debate  or  fighting  a  legal  case  he  learnt  how  to  bear  himself  in 
the  fray.'  ^ 

Tacitus  goes  on  to  explain  all  the  advantages  such 
a  system  had  for  a  young  man  who  wished  to  be  an 
orator  :  there  was  the  added  advantage  of  association 
with  some  of  Rome's  leading  citizens.  The  new 
tirocinium  fori  lacked  this  element  of  personal  con- 
tact. In  the  allusion  which  Seneca  makes  to  the 
custom,  he  talks  of  the  young  man's  pride  in  his  new 
state,  but  there  is  not  a  word  about  the  patron  who 
performed  the  ceremony  of  introduction  :  ^  a  signifi- 
cant contrast  with  Cicero's  reminiscences  of  the 
Scaevolae.^  Those  who  wanted  to  learn  from  the 
leading  speakers  in  the  forum  were  thus  thrown  back 
on  their  own  resources,  and  it  became  a  custom  for 
students  of  rhetoric  to  go  down  themselves  to  the 
forum  and  listen  to  whatever  speech  attracted  their 
attention.  Quintilian  commends  this  practice  in  his 
Institutio  oratoria ;  *  and  Tacitus  has  a  vivid 
description  of  these  young  students,  note-book  in 
hand,  eager  to  scribble  down  any  particularly 
brilliant  sententia  or  point  out  to  foreign  visitors  their 
favourite   orator.^     Tacitus   himself   listened   as   a 

1  Tac.  Dial.  34.  2  gen.  Epp.  4,  2.  »  q^  ^g  ^^   j 

4  Quint.  X.  5,  19.  «  x^q  Dial.  20,  7,  10. 


134  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

student  to  Aper,  whom  he  was  later  to  immortaUze 
in  his  Dialogue,  and  visited  him  in  his  home  ;  ^  and 
Pliny  was  among  the  young  men  who  crowded  to 
hear  the  '  stately  '  oratory  of  Tacitus.^  But  neither 
Tacitus  nor  Pliny  received  that  intimate  personal 
guidance  which  Cicero  owed  to  the  two  Scaevolae. 

§  2.     New  Elements  in  Roman  Society. 

The  students  whom  Tacitus  describes  in  his 
Dialogue  were  mainly  visitors  from  the  provinces, 
most  of  them  from  Gaul  and  Spain  ;  ^  and  the  fact 
is  significant  of  a  vast  change  that  was  taking  place 
in  Roman  society  under  the  early  Empire.  In  a 
famous  passage  of  his  Annals  Tacitus  has  analysed 
this  social  change,  and  has  described  the  various 
elements  which  were  rapidly  replacing  the  old  Roman 
aristocratic  families  in  the  senate  and  as  officers  of 
the  imperial  administration.'*  Two  main  tjrpes  can 
be  distinguished,  each  with  its  own  particular  needs 
in  the  sphere  of  education  :  the  members  of  obscure 
Roman  or  Italian  families  who — '  by  good  luck  or  by 
hard  work  ',  as  Tacitus  phrases  it — had  won  an 
honourable  place  in  the  new  regime  ;  and  an  in- 
creasingly large  body  of  talented  provincials,  to 
whom  the  imperial  policy  gave  opportunities  of 
public  service  which  had  been  denied  by  the  more 
conservative  statesmen  of  the  Republic.  Both  types 
are  best  studied  in  concrete  examples. 

1  Tac.  Dial.  2.  ^  Plin.  Ejip.  vii.  20,  4 ;  ii.  11,  17. 

3  Tac.  Dial.  10,  20.  *  Tac.  Ann.  iii.  55. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  135 

Vespasian  is  named  by  Tacitus  as  the  man  who  did 
more  than  any  one  else  to  stem  the  tide  of  luxury  and 
to  bring  Roman  society  back  to  something  like  its  old 
simplicity  :  ^  his  story  is  the  story  of  a  successful 
civil  servant  owing  everything  to  the  Empire.  His 
grandfather  had  been  a  centurion  in  Pompey's  army, 
his  great-grandfather  a  contractor  of  slave-labour  in 
Cisalpine  Gaul ;  his  father  was  a  tax-farmer  who  had 
left  a  name  for  honesty  in  Asia  Minor  and  Switzer- 
land, and  had  married  the  daughter  of  a  successful 
Roman  officer.  The  only  one  of  the  future  emperor's 
relatives  who  had  attained  senatorial  rank  was  his 
mother's  brother,  who  had  been  praetor,  presumably 
under  Augustus.'  Vespasian  himself  began  life  as 
a  tribunus  militum  in  Thrace,  was  then  quaestor  in 
Crete  or  Cyrene,  aedile  and  praetor  in  Rome,  com- 
manded an  army  first  on  the  Rhine  and  then  in 
Britain,  and  governed  the  province  of  Africa. 
Henceforth  he  was  a  marked  man,  though  few  even 
of  his  friends  can  have  expected  what  did  in  fact 
happen.  And  what  of  his  education  ?  According  to 
Suetonius,  Vespasian  was  brought  up  by  his  grand- 
mother on  a  farm  near  Reate.^  Horace  describes 
how  '  the  big  sons  of  big  centurions  '  went  every  day 
to  school  at  Venusia  ;  *  and  Vespasian,  the  grandson 
of  a  retired  centurion,  must  have  gone  to  school  with 
his  like.  Persius  is  fond  of  quoting  such  retired 
centurions  as  the  type  of  rough,  uncultured  country- 
folk,® and  it  is  not  surprising  to  read  in  Suetonius 

1  ibid.,  he.  cit.  2  g^g^,    y^p   j  3  ^-^^-^  2. 

*  Hor.  Serm.  i.  6,  72.  »  Pers.  Sat.  iii.  77  ;  v.  189. 


136  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

that  to  the  end  of  his  life  Vespasian  never  got  rid  of 
his  country  accent.^  Yet  somewhere  or  other  he  had 
been  to  school  with  a  Greek  grammaticus,  for  later  in 
Ufe  he  surprised  his  courtiers  by  the  readiness  with 
which  he  could  quote  Homer  and  Menander.^ 
Possibly  his  mother's  relatives  had  sent  him  to 
school  at  Rome  :  just  as  Horace's  freedman  father 
brought  his  boy  up  to  the  city  from  Venusia  and  sent 
him  to  a  school  where  he  learnt  lessons  '  which  any 
Roman  knight  or  senator  might  teach  his  children  '.^ 
That  is  all  we  know  ;  but  the  regular  age  for  '  taking 
a  commission  '  as  tribunus  militum  was  eighteen,*  and 
once  begun  Vespasian's  official  career  was  never 
interrupted. 

Good  luck  and  hard  work  were  both  conspicuous  in 
Vespasian's  career,  but  he  is  the  type  of  hundreds  of 
other  civil  servants  and  military  men  whose  names 
have  perished,  or  have  survived  only  on  some  official 
inscription.  The  younger  Pliny's  correspondents, 
with  their  endless  talk  of  culture  and  literary 
criticism,  were  the  sons  and  grandsons  of  men  like 
Vespasian :  some  of  them,  Uke  Terentius  Junior 
whom  Pliny  visited  at  his  farm  one  day  and  found 
full  of  interest  in  Greek  literature,^  were  themselves 
retired  civil  servants  with  records  not  unlike 
Vespasian's  before  the  year  of  the  four  emperors. 
And  it  is  Pliny  who  makes  the  remark  :  '  How  many 
well-read  men  are  forgotten  by  the  world,  thanks  to 

1  Suet.  Vesp.  22.  ^  if,i^^  23.  '  Hor.  Serm.  i.  6,  77. 

^  Cagnat  in  Daremberg-Saglio,  iii.  2,  p.  1053. 
5  Pliny,  Epp.  vii.  25. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  137 

their  modesty  and  retiring  life !  '  ^  One  other 
sentence  from  Pliny's  correspondence  is  worth 
quoting  for  the  experience  which  it  reflects.  '  My 
young  friend  ',  he  writes  in  a  letter  of  introduction, 
'  is  of  an  excellent  family  and  has  all  the  talents 
needed  for  success  :  he  is  fond  of  study,  like  most 
poor  men.'  ^  Cicero's  father  might  have  introduced 
his  son  to  Scaevola  with  the  same  words. 

The  imperial  civil  service,  which  usually  implied 
service  as  an  officer  in  the  army,  was  perhaps  the 
surest  road  to  success  under  the  early  Empire. 
Nowadays  we  should  naturally  add  the  learned 
professions,  but  Roman  society  looked  down  on 
doctors  and  schoolmasters  as  semi-servile  professions. 
Greek  opinion  was  much  the  same.  '  If  there  were 
no  doctors ',  said  a  witty  Greek  proverb,  '  there 
would  be  no  greater  fool  than  a  schoolmaster  '  ;  ^  and 
the  two  professions  were  for  the  most  part  left  to 
Greek  freedmen.  '  Make  your  son  an  auctioneer  or 
an  architect  rather  than  a  schoolmaster ',  says 
Martial  to  a  Roman  parent ;  *  and  Juvenal  associates 
doctors  and  schoolmasters  with  painters,  attendants 
at  the  public  baths,  fortune-tellers,  and  tight-rope 
dancers.^  There  remained  the  legal  profession  with 
its  various  branches ;  the  advocate  (patronuSy 
advocatus,  or  causidicus),  the  notary  (notarius),  the 
lawyer  (pragmaticus)  who  got  up  the  legal  facts  for 
the  advocate,  and  the  assistant-magistrate  (assessor) 

1  ibid.  vii.  25,  I.  2  j^j^.  y^  22,  2. 

3  Athenaeus,  xv.  666  A  ;  Bliimner,  p.  476. 
*  Mart.  V.  56.  ^  Juv.  iii.  76. 

aoa9  Q 


138  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

who  sat  with  the  praetor  or  governor  in  the  courts.^ 
Under  the  Empire  this  was  the  favourite,  as  well  as 
the  most  specialized,  learned  profession ;  and  a 
conventional  declamatio  in  the  schools  of  rhetoric, 
hardly  less  trite  than  the  comparison  between  town- 
life  and  country-life,  was  the  choice  between  life 
as  a  lawyer  or  soldier.^ 

Those  who  wished  to  devote  their  lives  to  a  serious 
study  of  law  attended  a  regular  course  of  lectures 
given  in  public  by  some  distinguished  iiirisperitus.^ 
Under  the  Empire  recognized  schools  of  law  came 
into  existence,  not  only  in  Rome  but  also  in  the 
provinces,  notably  at  Berytus  in  Phoenicia.  At 
Rome  the  two  most  famous  schools  were  the  Sabiniani 
and  the  Proculiani,  and  the  Digest  gives  a  list  of  the 
successive  heads  of  each  school,  beginning  with 
Ateius  Capito  and  Antistius  Labeo.*  But  these  schools 
were  attended  for  the  most  part  by  students  who  hoped 
to  become  in  turn  either  assessores  or  iurisperiti,  both 
of  them  highly  speciaUzed  professions.  The  more 
ambitious  preferred  the  career  of  advocate  in  the 
courts,  where  reputations  were  more  easily  made. 
No  special  studies  were  needed  for  this  career,  no 
talent  save  the  artificial  eloquence  of  the  period  ;  for 
the  pragmaticus  was  always  at  hand  with  his  legal 
notes  on  the  case,  and  the  universal  habit  of  bribing 
both    judge    and    advocate    made    the    profession 

1  Friedlaender,  i,  pp.  185  foil,  (i,  p.  334). 

2  Quint,  ii.  4,  24. 

^  Bremer,  pp.  7  foil. 

*  Dig.  ii.  1,  2,  47  foil.  ;  Bremer,  pp.,  68  foil. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  l.'JO 

singularly  lucrative/  An  incident  which  occurred  in 
A.  D.  47,  during  the  reign  of  Claudius,  will  illustrate  the 
new  surroundings  to  which  Cicero's  doctus  orator  had 
perforce  to  adapt  himself. 

Claudius  was,  according  to  Tacitus,  a  weak 
emperor,  and  his  policy  had  allowed  grave  abuses  to 
become  the  rule  in  the  courts  of  law.  Spying  by  paid 
informers  (delatio)  had  become  a  fine  art,  and  the 
worst  offenders  were  advocates  who  brought  forward 
an  accusation  simply  for  the  sake  of  blackmail.  In 
self-defence  the  senatorial  party  demanded  a  reform. 
Under  the  Republic  the  lex  Cincia,  passed  in  204  B.C., 
had  forbidden  advocates  to  accept  payment,  and 
Augustus  had  reinforced  the  law  by  a  severe  penalty.^ 
But  this  penalty  was  ignored  in  practice,  and  the 
motion  brought  forward  by  the  consul  designate  for 
A.  D.  47  was  simply  that  the  penalties  prescribed  by 
Augustus  should  be  put  into  force.  Tacitus  sum- 
marizes the  debate  that  followed,  and  it  is  clear  that 
the  struggle  was  between  two  social  orders.^  On  the 
one  hand,  an  appeal  was  made  to  Roman  traditions. 
Eloquence  had  once  been  the  first  of  the  liberal  arts  : 
now  it  was  but  the  instrument  of  a  sordid  trade.  The 
reply  was  obvious.  Times  had  changed  since  the 
days  of  Cicero  and  Hortensius,  or  even  Pollio  and 
Messalla.  Oratory  was  now  a  profession,  and  advo- 
cates were  dependent  on  their  fees.  Many  a  poor 
man  had  made  his  name  in  the  forum  of  recent  years, 

^  Friedlaender,  i,  pp.  182  foil,  (i,  p.  330). 
2  Tac.  Ann.  xi.  5  ;    Dio,    xliv.    18  ;    Klingmiiller  in    Paulj^- 
Wissowa,  viii.  2274.  ^  Tac.  Ann.  xi.  5-7. 


140  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

but  a  revival  of  the  obsolete  sanction  would  place  an 
unjust  premium  on  the  possession  of  private  means. 
Claudius  took  the  democratic  side,  and  contented 
himself  with  placing  a  reasonable  limit  on  the  fees  an 
advocate  might  receive  ;  and  in  spite  of  an  attempt 
made  by  Nero  to  revive  the  lex  Cincia  in  the  first 
year  of  his  reign,  this  compromise  remained  a 
permanent  part  of  Roman  law.^  A  generation  later 
Quintilian  boasts  that  no  more  honourable  profession 
than  the  advocate's  is  to  be  found  in  Rome.^ 

This  professional  class  of  which  Tacitus  and 
QuintiHan  speak  was  not  the  only  new  element  in 
Roman  society  under  the  early  Empire.  So  fantastic 
are  the  stories  told  by  Tacitus,  Suetonius,  Martial, 
and  Juvenal  of  the  freedmen  who  made  their  fortunes 
under  Tiberius,  Claudius,  and  Nero  that  one  hesitates 
before  counting  these  men  as  a  normal  element  of  any 
society.  Yet  the  evidence  of  such  inscriptions  as 
have  been  collected  and  classified  shows  that  the 
despised  freedman,  usually  of  Eastern  descent,  was 
steadily  coming  to  the  front  in  Roman  society,  even 
as  early  as  the  first  century  a.d.^  And  no  account 
of  Roman  life  under  the  early  Empire  is  complete 
without  the  evidence  of  Petronius.  One  of  Trimal- 
chio's  boon-companions  airs  his  views  on  education 
in  a  speech  which  deserves  to  be  quoted  in  full. 
A  teacher  of  rhetoric  is  present  at  the  famous  banquet, 

1  Tac.  Ann.  xiii.  5  ;  Plin.  Epp.  v.  9  (21),  4  ;  Dig.  i.  13,  1,  10- 
13  ;  xviii.  1,7.  2  Quint,  xii.  7,  10. 

3  See  an  able  article  by  Prof.  Tenney  Frank  on  '  Race  Mixture 
in  the  Roman  Empire  '  {Amer.  Hist.  Review  (1916),  pp.  689-708). 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  141 

and  the  speaker  has  been  irritated  by  the  school- 
master's sneers  at  the  bad  Latin  he  was  hearing  all 
round  him.^ 

'  You  think  I'm  an  old  chatterbox,  Agamemnon  ;  but  why 
don't  you  answer  me,  you  who've  been  taught  to  make  speeches  ? 
You're  not  one  of  us,  and  that 's  why  you  laugh  at  us  poor  folk 
when  we  open  our  mouths.  We  all  know  you're  mad  on  books. 
But  come  over  to  my  farm  some  day,  and  I'll  show  you  my  little 
cottage.  You'U  get  something  to  eat  there  :  chickens,  eggs,  some- 
thing worth  eating,  even  though  the  weather  has  turned  every- 
thing topsy-turvy  this  year.  And  I've  got  a  young  boy  who 
would  make  a  good  pupil  for  you.  He  has  learnt  simple  division 
already,  and  you  may  have  him  as  a  servant-boy  yet,  if  he  lives. 
For  he  never  has  his  head  out  of  a  book,  if  you  give  him  a  minute 
to  spare.  He 's  clever  and  a  good  lad,  but  he 's  crazy  on  birds. 
I've  killed  three  of  his  goldfinches  already,  and  told  him  it  was 
the  weasel  that  ate  them.  But  now  he  's  got  a  new  fad  and  will 
do  nothing  but  paint.  However,  he  has  begun  his  Greek  at  last, 
and  is  beginning  to  like  his  Latin,  though  his  master  is  a  conceited 
fellow  who  is  never  quiet  at  any  job  I  give  him,  but  comes  and 
asks  for  something  to  copy,  and  then  won't  do  his  own  work. 
I've  got  another  boy  too,  but  he 's  no  scholar.  He 's  anxious  to 
learn,  however,  and  is  getting  along  faster  than  he  thinks.  He 
comes  home  every  holiday  and  takes  whatever  you  give  him. 
So  I've  bought  the  lad  some  of  those  red-letter  books,  for  I  want 
him  to  learn  some  law  and  be  able  to  keep  himself.  That 's 
the  job  that  pays.  For  he  's  got  education  enough  for  liis  age. 
If  he  cries  off,  I've  made  up  my  mind  to  teach  him  a  trade. 
We'll  make  him  a  barber  or  an  auctioneer,  or  at  the  worst  an 
advocate.  Then  he  's  safe  for  life.  So  I  keep  telling  him  every 
day  :  Believe  me,  my  boy,  whatever  you  leani  is  all  for  the  good. 
Look  at  the  advocate  Phileros.  If  he  hadn't  learnt  his  lessons, 
he'd  go  hungry  to-day.  It 's  not  so  long  since  he  was  carrying 
sacks  to  market  on  his  back,  and  now  he  's  able  to  hold  his  own 
against  Norbanus.  Education  is  a  gold-mine,  my  boy,  and  a  trade 
sticks  to  you  for  life.' 

The  last  phrase  deserves  to  be  quoted  in  the  original  : 
1  Petron.  Sat.  40. 


142  REACTION  AND  IT8  CAUSES 

'  Litterae  thesaururn  est,  et  artificium  nunquain 
moritur.'  It  is  a  fitting  counterpart  to  Trimalchio's 
self-chosen  epitaph  :  '  He  began  hfe  as  a  poor  man, 
died  a  millionaire,  and  never  listened  to  a  lecture  on 
philosophy.'  ^ 

None  of  these  new  elements  in  Roman  society  was 
likely  to  find  Cicero's  politior  humanitas  a  practicable 
ideal.  But  the  admission  of  men  from  the  provinces 
to  a  full  share  in  the  political  and  social  life  of  Rome 
had  an  even  more  decisive  influence  on  the  future 
character  of  Roman  education.  The  term  '  pro- 
vincial '  is  not  very  easy  to  define,  for  it  covers 
citizens  from  the  older  Roman  colonies  in  the 
provinces  as  well  as  Gauls  and  Spaniards  whose 
fathers  or  grandfathers  had  fought  against  Rome. 
As  a  rule  we  know  no  more  of  a  '  provincial '  than 
the  town  at  which  he  was  born.  The  Senecas,  for 
example,  and  Porcius  Latro  came  from  Corduba, 
Quintilian  from  Calagurris,  Martial  from  Bilbilis,  and 
Domitius  Afer  from  Nemausus  ;  but  that  is  all  we 
know.  Sometimes  we  know  even  less  :  M.  Aper,  for 
example,  was  a  Gaul,  but  his  birthplace  is  unknown. 
Generalizations  where  so  little  is  certain  are  not  very 
trustworthy,  but  Tacitus  expressly  names  the  '  new 
men  [novi  homines)  from  the  municipalities  and 
colonies  and  even  the  provinces  '  as  a  chief  factor  in 
the  new  social  life  of  Rome  :  '  they  brought  with 
them ',  he  says,  '  the  frugal  habits  of  their  homes,  and 
kept  the  old  spirit  even  when,  by  good  luck  or  hard 
work,  they  had  acquired  wealth  for  their  old  age.'  - 

1  Petron.  Sat.  71.  2  Tac.  Ann.  iii.  55. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  143 

Two  tendencies  seem  to  have  been  generally 
characteristic  of  these  provincials.  One  was  a  more 
than  Roman  consciousness  of  their  status  as  Roman 
citizens,  with  a  more  than  Roman  pride  in  the 
language  and  literature  of  Rome.  This  tendency  had 
been  noticeable  as  early  as  the  days  of  Cicero.  '  Our 
citizens  ',  says  Crassus  in  the  de  Oratore,  '  are  less 
interested  in  literature  than  the  Latins.'  ^  Only  now 
the  place  of  the  Latins  is  taken  by  natives  of  the 
great  Western  provinces,  notably  Spain  and  Gaul : 
Quintilian  a  Spaniard,  definitely  counts  all  Italy  as 
Roman  in  the  matter  of  correct  Latin  speech." 
And  just  as  Rome  had  drawn  all  the  talent  of  Latium 
to  its  schools,  so  now  students  from  Italy  and  all  the 
provinces  flock  to  the  capital.  Virgil,  for  example, 
came  up  from  the  schools  of  Cremona  and  Milan  at 
the  age  of  fifteen  ;  ^  Horace  as  a  boy  from  Venusia, 
where  his  father  would  not  allow  him  to  attend  the 
local  school ;  ^  Persius  from  Volaterrae  at  the  age  of 
twelve.^  Cisalpine  Gaul  (Gallia  togata)  was  especially 
noted  for  its  schools  ;  Suetonius  says  that  there  were 
distinguished  Latin  grammatici  in  that  province  as 
early  as  the  first  century  b.  c.®  Transalpine  Gaul  was 
quick  to  follow  this  example,  and  the  list  of  Gauls  who 
made  their  names  as  orators  in  Rome  during  the  first 
century  a.  d. — Domitius  Afer,  Montanus,  Florus,  and 
M.  Aper — justifies  Juvenal's  epithet,  Gallia  facunda.'' 

1  Cic.  de  Or.  iii.  43.  2  Quint,  i.  5,  56. 

3  Vit.  Donat.  ;  Frank,  pp.  16  foil. 

*  Hor.  Serm.  i.  6,  72  foil. 

5  Vit.  Pers.  ;  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  80. 

«  Suet.  Gram.  3.  '  Juv.  xv.  111. 


144  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

Spain  has  an  even  more  distinguished  Hst,  and  it 
is  interesting  to  note  the  Roman  mentality  of  these 
'  Spanish  '  authors.  Quintilian,  for  example,  who 
was  born  in  Spain  and  had  begun  his  work  as  teacher 
and  advocate  there,  quotes  a  Latin  word — gurdus — 
with  the  remark  :  '  I  am  told  that  this  word,  which 
is  vulgarly  used  instead  of  stolidus,  is  of  Spanish 
origin.'  ^  And  Martial's  praise  of  Bilbilis  shows  that 
his  birthplace  was  an  entirely  Latin  town  ;  ^  whilst 
the  verses  he  sends  to  a  lady-friend,  Marcella,  who 
had  presented  him  with  a  comfortable  estate  in 
Bilbilis,  are  delightful  in  their  snobbery.  '  Who 
would  think  that  you  live  in  a  Spanish  town ',  he 
writes  to  her,  '  or  that  you  were  born  in  such  sur- 
roundings ?  Your  taste  is  so  rare,  so  exquisite,  that 
no  lady  born  in  the  Suburra  or  on  the  Capitoline  is 
your  rival.'  ^  Poor  Marcella  must  have  worked  hard 
to  earn  that  praise,  if  it  was  her  due  :  for  Cicero 
pokes  fun  at  the  Latin  of  Corduba,*  and  Porcius 
Latro,  a  native  of  that  town,  could  never  get  rid  of 
his  Spanish  style. ^  But  Seneca,  Quintilian,  and 
Martial  all  write  Latin  as  to  the  manner  born,  and 
many  of  their  countrymen  must  have  envied  them 
their  os  Latinum^  to  use  Pliny's  phrase.®  For  no 
province  was  more  eager  than  Spain  to  acquire 
Roman  habits ;  and  Pliny  notes  the  Spanish  reputa- 
tion for  a  peculiarly  Roman  quality,  gravitas.'' 

^  Quint,  i.  5,  57  ;  see  also,  i.  5,  8.  ^  Mart,  i,  61  ;  xii.  18. 

3  ibid.  xii.  21,  31.  *  Cic.  pro  Arch.  26. 

s  Sen.  Suas.  6,  27  ;  Contr.  i,  praef.  16. 

«  Pliny,  Epp.  vi.  11,  2.  '  ibid  ii.  13,  4. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  145 

The  other  tendency  which  characterizes  almost  all 
these  provincial  writers  is  a  passion  for  rhetoric  ;  and 
here  the  phenomenon  is  less  easily  explained. 
Possibly  it  was  their  lack  of  mastery  over  the  finer 
cadences  of  Latin  verse  and  prose  ;  for  rhetoric  is 
the  most  obvious  of  literary  forms,  and  the  most 
easily  acquired.  But,  whatever  the  cause,  there  can 
be  no  mistaking  the  general  drift  of  Latin  literature 
at  this  period.  Seneca,  Lucan,  Persius,  Statins, 
Porcius  Latro,  and  the  whole  tribe  of  rhetores  :  these 
are  the  outstanding  names,  and  they  are  one  and  all 
monotonous  in  their  declamatory  vehemence.  The 
greatest  of  them  are  Spaniards,  and  a  generalization 
is  easily  made.  But  there  were  other  declaimers  as 
well  as  they,  and  one  name  is  sufficient  to  redeem  the 
province's  reputation.  QuintiHan  was  a  Spaniard, 
and  his  Institutio  oratoria  contains  the  sanest 
criticism  ever  written  of  all  this  new-fangled  rhetoric. 


§  3.  Education  of  the  Loiver  Classes. 
Modern  experience  would  suggest  that  a  generation 
which  saw  the  transition  from  a  conservative 
aristocracy  to  a  society  mainly  composed  of  the 
professional  middle-class  would  be  noted  for  its 
practical  standards  of  education.  Yet  Cicero's 
politior  humanitas  is  less  academic  than  the  ey/cvKXtos 
naiheia  of  Vitruvius  and  Quintilian,  and  there  is  no 
trace  of  a  struggle  between  what  we  should  now  call 
the  Humanist  tradition  and  any  more  '  scientific  ' 
type  of  school  studies.    Even  in  Hellenistic  Greece, 


146  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

where  the  scientific  spirit  was  incomparably  more 
vigorous  than  it  ever  was  under  the  Roman  Empire, 
Greek  instincts  for  order  and  harmony  kept  the  mere 
thirst  for  knowledge  in  check  ;  and  the  ey/cu/cXto? 
TTtttSeta  described  by  Quintilian  is  essentially  Hel- 
lenistic in  its  origin  and  spirit.  In  Kome  the 
scientific  spirit  was  never  strong.  Grammar  and 
jurisprudence  are  the  only  two  sciences  in  which 
Roman  scholars  did  original  work,  and  even  here 
their  work  was  directly  inspired  by  Hellenistic 
scholarship  and  Hellenistic  philosophy.  As  for  the 
mathematical  and  applied  sciences,  Pliny's  Natural 
History  and  Seneca's  Quaestiones  naturales  show  how 
far  the  Romans  were  from  original  research-work  in 
these  fields.  No  Roman  writer  ever  thought  of 
giving  his  public  more  than  a  popular  account  of 
Greek  scientific  theories  and  discoveries  ;  the  Roman 
Empire  never  produced  a  scientific  discovery  that 
has  been  of  permanent  use  to  mankind.  Architecture 
is  the  one  branch  of  applied  mathematics  in  which 
they  showed  real  genius  :  yet  Roman  architects  were 
always  dependent  on  Greek  theory  for  their  practical 
work.  Vitruvius,  whose  own  work  is  merely  an 
intelligent  compilation  from  earlier  Greek  sources, 
complains  that  the  Romans  had  produced  no  tech- 
nical literature  of  their  profession  comparable  in  bulk 
or  quality  with  the  text-books  of  Greek  specialists.^ 
Vitruvius  tells  us  in  his  preface  that  he  is  writing 
as  an  architect  for  architects,^  and  the  statement 

^  Vitruv.  vii,  praef.  14  ;  Schanz,  ii.  1,  p.  539. 
2  Vitruv.  i.  1,  18. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  147 

makes  his  theory  of  education  all  the  more  interest- 
ing. No  student  of  architecture,  he  says,  should 
come  to  the  profession  without  an  adequate  general 
education  :  he  must  be  able  to  read  and  write  and 
draw,  and  have  also  studied  geometry,  optics, 
arithmetic,  history,  philosophy,  music,  medicine, 
law,  and  astronomy.^  This  is,  of  course,  with  certain 
modifications,  the  ordinary  Hellenistic  ey/cvKXto? 
TTtttSeta,  and  Vitruvius  himseK  uses  the  term  {encyclios 
disciplina).'^  Some  of  the  objects  included  in  this 
programme  have  no  apparent  connexion  with  archi- 
tecture, and  it  is  amusing  to  see  how  Vitruvius  tries 
to  justify  his  theory.  Music,  for  example,  must  be 
studied  because  certain  tuning  instruments  were  used 
by  architects  to  test  the  accuracy  of  their  calcula- 
tions ;  philosophy  gives  knowledge  of  the  physical 
sciences,  and  also  teaches  generosity  and  commercial 
honesty ;  law  may  be  useful  in  professional  litiga- 
tion ;  and  history  will  help  an  intelligent  architect 
to  explain  the  meaning  of  his  designs — why  he 
designs  Caryatid  statues,  for  example.'^ 

All  this  is  given  with  a  mixture  of  Greek  termino- 
logy— graphiSy  euthy gramma,  physiologia,  hemitonia, 
symphonia,  clima,  encyclios,  agrammatos,  amusos, 
aniatrologetos,  and  so  forth — which  warns  us  that 
Vitruvius  is  borrowing  his  arguments  from  some 
Greek  source  ;  and  the  underlying  principle  of  all 
his  theory  is  plainly  Greek.     '  Every  science  {ars)  ', 

1  ibid.  i.  1,  3. 

2  ibid.  i.  1,  12  ;  vi,  'praef.  4  ;  see  above,  p.  85. 

3  Vitruv.  i.  1,  4-10. 


148  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

he  says,  '  is  composed  of  two  elements,  practice  (opus) 
and  theory  (ratiocinatio).  The  former  is  peculiar  to 
trained  specialists  in  each  science  ;  the  latter  is 
common  to  all  educated  men  {docti).'  ^  This  is  the 
principle  which  underlies  Cicero's  theory  of  the 
doctus  orator,  and  it  is  no  chance  coincidence  that 
Vitruvius  repeats  in  this  context  another  of  Cicero's 
favourite  theories,  that  all  the  sciences  (artes)  are 
linked  together  in  one  vast  system.^  Cicero  was 
a  specialist  in  his  own  profession  as  well  as  a  man  of 
universal  culture  ;  and  that  is  precisely  what  Vitru- 
vius means  by  his  encyclios  disciplina.  He  himself 
was  no  mere  theorist,  but  a  practical  business  man, 
who  had  received  a  good  technical  training  in  his 
profession  and  had  since  then  acquired  considerable 
personal  experience.^  The  conclusion  would  seem 
to  be  obvious  that  the  theory  of  education  which  he 
propounds  was  common  to  men  of  his  type.  Not 
that  all  architects  were  as  well  educated  as  Vitruvius, 
any  more  than  all  orators  were  as  well  educated  as 
Cicero.  But  the  eyKv/cXtos  TratSeta  was  plainly  an 
accepted  standard  of  education  :  a  purely  profes- 
sional education  would  have  been  considered 
'  illiberal '. 

In  his  de  Officiis  Cicero  ranks  architecture  (which 
for  the  Romans  included  engineering)  together  with 
medicine  and  school-mastering  as  beneath  the  liberal 
professions,    but    above    such    '  sordid    trades '    as 

^  Vitruv.  i.  1,  15. 

2  Ibid.  i.  1,  12  ;  Cic.  de  Or.  iii.  21  ;  see  above,  p.  89. 

3  Vitruv.  i.  1,  2  ;  iv.  3,  3  ;  vi,  praef.  4  ;  x.  11,  2. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  149 

cooking,  dancing,  shopkeeping,  and  all  forms  of 
manual  labour. ^  This  classification  helps  to  define 
the  various  grades  into  which  the  new  Roman 
society  was  divided  by  social  convention.  The  great 
mass  of  the  Roman  people  were  engaged  in  one  or 
other  of  the  '  sordid  trades  '  which  Cicero  despised  : 
for  most  of  them  the  elementary  schools  of  reading, 
writing,  and  arithmetic  were  more  than  sufficient. 
'  My  parents  were  poor,  ignorant  folk ',  says  a 
cobbler  in  one  of  Martial's  epigrams  ;  '  who  taught 
me  the  ABC  themselves.  What  have  I  to  do  with 
schools  of  literature  and  rhetoric  ?  '  ^  And  one  of 
the  guests  at  Trimalchio's  table  boasts  that  he  has 
not  learnt  '  geometry  and  literature  and  all  the  rest 
of  that  sort  of  nonsense,  but  can  read  the  letters  on 
an  inscription,  knows  his  weights  and  measures,  and 
can  add  up  any  sum  '.^  Seneca  calls  such  an  educa- 
tion '  servile  ',*  but  many  a  free-born  citizen  probably 
got  no  further. 

The  more  reputable  professions  mentioned  by 
Cicero — medicine,  engineering,  and  architecture — 
demanded  a  higher  standard  of  education.  The 
encyclios  disciplina  detailed  by  Vitruvius  is  too  vague 
to  be  a  sure  guide ;  but  some  form  of  general 
education  was  plainly  considered  essential.  Vitruvius 
includes  philosophy  and  law  in  his  list,  and  omits 
rhetoric.  The  omission  is  curious,  though  Vitruvius 
says  nothing  to  explain  it.  Possibly  the  course  of 
rhetoric  which  Cicero  includes  in  his  normal  puerilis 

1  Cic.  de  Off.  i.  151.  2  Mart.  ix.  73,  7. 

3  Petron.  Sat.  58.  *  Sen.  de  Tran.  an.  9,  5. 


150  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

institutio  was  not  thought  necessary  for  a  practical 
profession  such  as  architecture  ;  but  that  is  only 
a  guess.  Most  architects  and  doctors  probably  went 
at  least  to  the  schools  of  the  grammaticus  and  the 
geometres.  When  Vitruvius  says  that  some  of  his 
profession  were  '  illiterate  '  (sine  litteris),^  he  must 
mean  that  they  had  not  been  to  a  school  of  literature  ; 
and  Galen  complains  a  century  later  that  medical 
quacks  were  going  about  the  country  who  could 
barely  read  and  write. '^ 

Cicero  ends  his  classification  of  the  '  sordid '  and 
'  liberal '  professions  with  the  remark  :  '  Of  money- 
making  professions  none  is  better,  more  fruitful, 
more  pleasant  and  more  worthy  of  a  free  man  than 
agriculture.'  ^  This  praise  of  agriculture,  coming 
from  such  a  lover  of  the  city,  sounds  somewhat 
conventional.  Columella,  who  was  a  farmer  by 
profession  as  well  as  by  choice,  has  a  different  story 
to  tell,  and  his  comment  bears  directly  on  the  history 
of  Roman  education.  He  has  been  speaking  of  the 
steady  decline  in  agriculture  during  the  preceding 
hundred  years,  and  this  is  his  analysis  of  its  cause. 

'  We  should  blame  ourselves  for  our  misfortunes,  not  nature 
or  the  climate.  Our  forefathers  gave  their  best  men  and  their 
best  energies  to  the  work  of  agriculture,  but  we  leave  it  all  to  our 
worst  slaves,  as  though  it  were  work  fit  only  for  the  public 
executioner.  We  are  men  of  strange  habits.  When  we  want  to 
learn  oratory,  we  are  careful  to  imitate  the  best  orator.  We  go 
to  school  to  learn  our  weights  and  measures.    We  study  music, 

1  Vitruv.  i.  1,  2. 

2  Galen,  de  Propr.  libr.  9  ;  Friedlaender,  i,  p.  192  (i,  p.  343). 

3  Cic.  de  Off.  i.  151. 


REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES  151 

song,  dance,  and  gesture.  When  we  want  to  build,  we  call  in 
mason  and  architect.  We  have  skilled  captains  for  our  ships, 
trained  soldiers  for  our  armies.  We  have  specialists  for  even,^ 
useful  science,  and  we  have  philosophers  to  form  our  characters. 
Agriculture  is  the  only  science  for  which  we  have  neither  pupils 
nor  masters  ;  yet  agriculture  is  the  science  next  in  dignity  to 
philosophy,  almost  its  sister-science.  We  have  schools  of  rhetoric, 
schools  of  geometry,  schools  of  music  ;  trained  cooks  and  trained 
barbers.  But  I  never  yet  heard  of  men  who  call  themselves 
students  or  professors  of  agriculture.'  ^ 

This  plea  for  schools  of  agriculture  sounds  curiously 
modern  and  shows  how  far  Roman  society  had 
drifted  from  the  days  of  Cato  and  Varro.  The 
evidence  supplied  by  Columella  himself  and  by  the 
writers  of  the  next  generation  shows  that  Roman 
methods  of  land-ownership  were  at  this  time  passing 
through  a  period  of  transition.^  In  place  of  the  old 
Roman  farm  owned  and  worked  by  a  Roman  citizen, 
vast  estates  {latifundia)  had  been  formed  in  Italy 
and  the  provinces.  These  estates  were  held  by  men 
of  property,  who  dwelt  for  the  most  part  in  cities, 
rarely  or  never  visited  their  farms,  but  allowed  them 
to  be  worked  either  by  gangs  of  slaves  under  the 
management  of  a  steward  (villicus)  or  by  small 
tenants  (coloni)  pajdng  rent  to  their  landlord.  How 
far  were  the  old  traditions  of  Roman  home-life 
maintained  by  these  coloni  ?  Evidence  is  lacking, 
but  the  letters  of  the  younger  Pliny  leave  a  general 
impression  of  perpetual  arrears  and  discontent.    At 

^  Columella,  i,  praef.  1-7  (I  have  condensed  the  original). 

^  See  the  evidence  collected  by  Heitland  in  his  Agricola 
(Cambridge,  1921)  ;  especially  the  chapters  on  Columella,  the 
younger  Pliny,  and  the  Inscriptions  relative  to  Alimenta. 


152  REACTION  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

best,  such  tenants  must  have  been  without  that  pride 
in  work  done  on  their  own  farm  which  is  so  plain  in 
the  writings  of  Cato  and  Varro.  The  Roman  state 
had  definitely  passed  from  the  days  of  citizen- 
farmers  and  farmer-soldiers  to  the  specialization  and 
centralization  inevitable  in  a  more  advanced  stage 
of  social  development.  Rome  was  now  the  centre  of 
a  great  Empire  and  Roman  society  had  perforce  to 
adapt  itself  to  changed  conditions.  Columella's  is 
the  only  voice  raised  in  protest  against  the  literary 
education  which  this  new  society  had  adopted  ;  and 
his  protest  is  not  against  the  ey/cv/cXto?  TratSeta  as 
such,  but  against  the  exclusion  of  agriculture  from 
the  cycle  of  artes  liberales. 


VIII 

THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

'  Non  vitae,  sed  scholae  discimus.'     Sen.  Epp.  106,  12. 

§  1.   Virgil  and  Horace  in  the  Schools. 

The  list  of  artes  liberales  given  by  Vitruvius  shows 
that  the  '  encyclic  '  programme  was  as  indefinite  in 
his  day  as  in  the  days  of  Cicero  and  Varro.  Optics 
certainly  and  drawing  most  probably  were  added  by 
the  architect  for  professional  reasons  :  history  should 
be  counted  as  part  of  literature.  This  reduces  the 
list  to  eight,  and  the  addition  of  rhetoric,  universally 
recognized  as  an  ars  and  part  of  the  '  encyclic  ' 
programme,  brings  the  number  to  the  nine  mentioned 
by  Cicero  and  Varro.  But  the  absence  of  allusions 
to  the  work  done  by  teachers  of  music  and  mathe- 
matics shows  that  literature,  rhetoric,  and  philosophy 
were  still  the  most  important  items  of  the  programme. 
And  here  the  evidence  is  abundant. 

In  theory  at  least  the  schools  of  literature  con- 
tinued to  do  the  work  described  by  Cicero  in  his 
de  Oratore.^  Seneca's  description  of  the  work  done 
by  a  grammaticus  is  almost  identical  with  Cicero's  : 
'  The  grammaticus  is  concerned  with  correctness  of 
speech  :  with  history,  too,  if  he  wishes  to  extend  his 
domain  ;    and,  at  the  very  furthest,  with  poetry.'  ^ 

1  Cic.  de  Or.  i.  187.  2  Sen.  Epp.  88,  3. 


3029 


u 


154  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

Allowing  for  the  contempt  which  Seneca  affects  here 
and  elsewhere  ^  when  speaking  of  the  grammatici, 
these  are  the  very  functions  ascribed  by  Cicero  to  the 
teacher  of  literature.  But  literature  is  more  depen- 
dent than  any  other  subject  on  the  medium  in  which 
it  is  taught  and  the  text-books  used;  and  the  genera- 
tion which  had  lived  since  Cicero's  death  had  changed 
the  whole  character  of  Roman  literary  education. 

Suetonius  says  that  it  was  Q.  Caecilius  Epirota,  a 
freedman  of  Cicero's  friend  Atticus  and  an  intimate 
friend  of  the  poet  Cornelius  Gallus,  who  first  com- 
mented in  class  on  the  works  of  Virgil  and  the  other 
Augustan  poets. ^  It  would  be  hard  to  exaggerate  the 
importance  of  this  step.  Hitherto  the  Roman  schools 
of  literature  had  taken  their  standards  of  excellence 
from  Greek  authors,  even  when  the  actual  texts  read 
at  school  were  Latin.  Now  the  Latin  grammaticus 
was  able  to  draw  on  a  literature  which  was  genuinely 
comparable  with  the  classical  literature  of  Greece, 
and  which  had  the  added  advantage  of  being  tho- 
roughly national  in  its  spirit.  Virgil  was  accepted 
immediately  as  the  national  poet  of  Rome  :  Petro- 
nius  calls  him  simply  '  Roman  Virgil  '.^  Horace's 
Odes  were  hardly  less  national,  and  they  must  have 
been  the  joy  of  schoolmasters  from  the  first.  But 
what  was  wanted  was  a  poem  which  should  tell  the 
story  of  Roman  greatness  for  Roman  boys,  and  that 
is  precisely  the  theme  of  Virgil's  Aeneid.  As  Servius 
puts  it  in  his  commentary  on  the  sixth  book :    '  An 

^  Sen.  Epp.  58,  5  ;   108,  24  foil.  -  Suet.  Oram.  16. 

=*  Petron.  Sat.  118. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  155 

attentive  examination  will  show  that  Virgil  has  com- 
memorated in  brief  form  all  Roman  history  from  the 
coming  of  Aeneas  to  his  own  day,  a  fact  which  is 
obscured  by  the  broken  order  of  his  narrative.'  ^ 
But  a  grammaticus  who  was  interested  in  his  work 
could  easUy  make  the  Aeneid  a  text-book  of  Roman 
history  up  to  the  days  of  Augustus  :  Quintilian  even 
complains  that  many  grammatici  gave  too  much 
attention  to  these  historical  and  mythological  details.- 
And  Virgil  was  the  happy  hunting-ground  of  the 
grammarian  as  well  as  the  antiquarian  :  his  erudition 
was  the  delight  of  later  scholars,  and  his  authority, 
like  Cicero's,  was  final  in  all  questions  of  correct 
speech.^ 

It  was  thus  inevitable  that  the  example  set  by 
Caecilius  should  become  the  rule.  Suetonius  tells  us 
that  there  was  opposition  at  fii'st,  and  Caecilius  was 
lampooned  as  '  the  nurse  of  our  baby  poets '.  But 
another  famous  grammaticus  of  the  Augustan  age, 
C.  Julius  Hyginus,  published  a  full  commentary  on 
Virgil's  poems,  which  won  him  praise  from  Ovid  as 
a  '  zealous  student  of  our  modern  poets  '  ;  *  and 
other  commentaries  followed  in  the  next  generation, 
as  well  as  a  critical  edition  of  both  Virgil  and  Horace 
by  Valerius  Probus.^  Henceforward  the  position 
of  the  two  poets  was  undisputed.     Quintilian  and 

^  Serv.  ad  Aen.  vi.  752  ;  Comparetti,  p.  11. 

2  Quint,  i.  8,  18-21. 

3  Sen.  Epp.  108,  24-35 ;  Gell.  v.  12,  13 ;  Comparetti, 
pp.  29  foil. 

*  Ovid,  Trist.  iii.  14,  7  ;  Schanz,  ii.  1,  p.  511. 

*  Schanz,  ii.  1,  pp.  117,  185. 


156  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

Tacitus  take  it  for  granted  that  Virgil  will  be  the  first 
poet  read  in  every  Roman  school,  just  as  Homer  was 
in  Greece  ;  ^  and  Juvenal  has  associated  the  names 
of  Virgil  and  Horace  with  the  oil  and  smoke  of  Roman 
class-rooms  in  verses  that  would  have  made  Horace 
shudder  to  hear  his  worst  forebodings  trumpeted 
abroad  as  an  accomplished  fact.^ 

Virgil  and  Horace  were  not  the  only  modern  poets 
read  in  the  schools  of  the  early  Empire.  Suetonius 
expressly  says  that  Caecilius  lectured  on  Virgil  '  and 
the  other  modern  poets '.  The  phrase  probably 
includes  Horace  and  the  elegiac  poets.  Ovid  was 
hardly  famous  enough  for  this  honour  during  the 
lifetime  of  Caecilius  ;  but  somewhat  later  a  teacher 
of  rhetoric,  Cestius  Pius,  had  to  rebuke  his  pupils  for 
their  imitation  of  Ovid's  style. ^  Lucan  was  a  school 
author  almost  within  his  lifetime  :  Suetonius  read 
him  at  school,  and  Tacitus  ranks  him  as  a  classic 
with  Virgil  and  Horace.*  Statins  was  even  able  to 
boast  that  his  poems  became  school-texts  imme- 
diately after  they  were  published ;  ^  and  this  tribute 
to  the  reputation  of  a  living  author  must  have  been 
common  enough,  for  both  Persius  and  Martial  refer 
to  it  as  the  final  test  of  popularity.^ 

The  schools  of  literature  were  thus  in  close  touch 
with  the  literary  fashions  of  the  day,  and  more  than 

1  Quint,  i.  8,  5  ;  x.  1,  86  ;  Tac.  Dial.  12. 

2  Juv.  vii.  225  foil.  ;  Mart.  v.  56  names  Cicero  and  Virgil  as 
typical  school-texts. 

3  Sen.  Contr.  iii.  Exc.  7.  ^  Vita  Lucani ;  Tac.  Dial  20. 
6  Stat.  Theb.  xii.  815. 

«  Pers.  Sat.  i.  29  ;  Mart.  viii.  3.  15. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  157 

one  grammaticus  made  his  mark  in  literary  circles. 
Most  famous  of  them  all  was  Remmius  Palaemon, 
author  of  the  first  Latin  grammar  ever  published  and 
teacher  of  both  Persius  and  Quintilian.^  His 
scholarship  is  only  known  to  us  by  guesswork,  but 
Suetonius  gives  us  a  good  deal  of  unsavoury  gossip 
about  his  personality.^  He  had  started  life  as  a  slave, 
but  won  such  a  reputation  for  literary  talent  and 
erudition  that  in  spite  of  gross  personal  immorality 
his  class-room  was  the  most  fashionable  in  Rome. 
His  Ars  Grammatica  was  almost  certainly  the  first  of 
its  kind,  being  a  text-book  of  Latin  grammar  for 
use  in  schools,  apparently  modelled  on  the  standard 
Greek  grammar  of  Dionysius  Thrax.^  Its  success 
was  immediate,  for  Juvenal  refers  to  it  as  a  classic 
of  his  school-days,  and  it  was  much  used  by  the  later 
Latin  grammarians.^  Nor  was  Palaemon  the  man  to 
underestimate  the  value  of  his  wares.  '  Latin 
scholarship  was  born  with  me,  and  will  die  with  me  ', 
he  was  fond  of  saying  ;  and  he  never  called  Varro, 
the  greatest  of  Roman  scholars,  by  any  other  name 
than  '  The  Pig '.  Virgil  was  his  favourite  poet, 
largely  for  personal  reasons.  Palaemon  appears  as 
arbiter  between  two  poets  in  one  of  the  Eclogues  ; 
a  plain  prophecy  that  Palaemon  would  one  day  be 
the  judge  of  all  poets  and  poetry.^ 

1  Vita  Persii  ;  schol.  ad  Juv.  vi.  451  ;  but  see  below,  p.  181. 

2  Suet.  Gram.  23 ;  see  also  Pliny,  N.  H.  xiv.  49-50  for  a  curious 
anecdote  about  Palaemon  as  a  land-owner. 

3  Nettleship,  Essays  (Second  Series),  pp.  163  foil. 
*  Juv.  vi.  452  ;  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  431. 

s  Suet.  Gram.  23. 


158  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

§  2.     The  New  Schools  of  Rhetoric. 

Suetonius  tells  us  that  both  Tiberius  and  Claudius 
used  their  personal  influence  against  the  popularity 
of  this  amazing  schoolmaster  and  failed.  Other 
grammatici  of  the  period — Verrius  Flaccus,  for 
example,  Julius  Hyginus  and  C.  Melissus  ^ — were 
high  in  the  imperial  favour,  and  it  is  plain  that  the 
teachers  of  literature  were  acquiring  a  new  social 
standing  in  Rome.  But  the  grammatici  were  far  less 
popular  than  the  contemporary  teachers  of  rhetoric, 
and  their  class-rooms  far  less  fashionable.  Those 
who  know  the  Augustan  age  only  from  the  works  of 
Virgil,  Horace,  Ovid,  and  Livy  can  form  no  true 
judgement  of  the  literary  society  in  which  these 
stately  '  Augustans  '  moved.  Fortunately  Seneca's 
father,  who  was  a  student  of  rhetoric  all  his  life  and 
lived  to  the  age  of  seventy,  wrote  down  his  personal 
reminiscences  of  the  rhetores  and  their  art  for  the 
benefit  of  his  sons.  These  reminiscences  contain  an 
endless  number  of  sententiae,  divisiones,  and  colores 
which  the  old  man  had  either  learnt  by  heart  or  jotted 
down  in  his  note-book.^  They  make  dull  reading 
enough  ;  but  they  are  seasoned  by  criticisms  and 
personal  anecdotes,  told  for  the  most  part  in  a  con- 
versational manner,  and  thrown  into  the  form  of 
a  preface  to  each  book  of  the  collection.  No  student 
of  the  Augustan  age  should  leave  those  prefaces 
unread. 

Dates  are  here  important,  for  without  Seneca's 

1  Suet.  Oram.  17,  20,  21.  2  g^n.  Contr.  i,  praef.  1-5. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  159 

formal  testimony  it  would  be  hard  to  believe  that 
these  sententiae  and  colores  were  composed  and 
admired  within  a  few  years  of  Cicero's  death.  Yet 
such  is  the  fact.  Were  it  not  for  the  civil  war 
between  Caesar  and  Pompey,  Seneca  would  have 
come  as  a  boy  from  Spain  to  Rome  in  time  to  hear 
Cicero's  last  speeches  ;  ^  and  the  declamations  from 
which  he  quotes  were  for  the  most  part  delivered 
during  the  next  twenty  or  thirty  years.  Seneca 
himself  speaks  of  these  declamations  as  an  entirely 
new  fashion — '  a  thing  born  after  me  ',  to  use  his 
own  phrase.^  The  statement  needs  to  be  qualified  : 
for  declamation  was  an  exercise  which  the  Gracchi 
had  practised,  and  which  Cicero  kept  up  all  his  life. 
But  the  type  of  declamation  which  Seneca  knew  was 
wholly  modern,  in  subject-matter  and  in  style.  No 
attempt  can  be  made  here  to  reproduce  the  style  of 
these  new  rhetores  with  their  never-ending  sententiae 
and  their  amazing  artificiality :  but  a  few  typical 
subjects  may  be  quoted.  They  will  show  how  far 
the  schools  of  Latin  rhetoric  had  drifted  since  the 
days  of  Plotius  Callus. 

One  of  Seneca's  Controversiae,  for  which  he  quotes 
specimens  from  all  the  leading  rhetores,  deals  with  the 
following  imaginary  plot :  ^ 

'  The  law  requires  that  children  should  support  their  parents 
or  be  imprisoned.  A  man  has  slain  one  of  his  brothers  as  a  tyrant 
and  another  because  he  was  taken  in  adultery,  though  his  father 
begged  for  mercy.  The  man  is  captured  by  pirates,  who  write 
to  the  father  for  a  ransom.    The  father  answers  that  he  will  pay 

^  ibid,  i,  praef.  11.  -  ibid,  i,  praef.  12.  ^  ibid.  i.  7. 


160  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

them  double  if  they  will  cut  ofif  his  son's  hands.     The  son  is 
released  by  the  pirates,  and  refuses  to  support  his  father.' 

Another  tells  the  story  of  a  well-known  romance  :  ^ 

'  A  husband  and  wife  have  sworn  that  neither  shall  survive  the 
other.  The  husband  goes  on  a  journey,  and  sends  a  messenger 
to  his  wife  with  news  of  his  death.  The  wife  leaps  from  a  cliff, 
but  is  rescued  and  restored  to  health.  She  is  ordered  by  her 
father  to  desert  her  husband,  but  refuses.    She  is  disinherited.' 

And  another  :  ^ 

'  A  young  man  is  captured  by  pirates  and  writes  to  his  father 
for  the  ransom.  No  ransom  is  sent.  The  daughter  of  the  pirate- 
captain  makes  him  swear  that  he  will  marry  her  if  he  is  released. 
She  elopes  with  him,  and  they  return  to  the  young  man's  home 
where  they  are  married.  A  rich  heiress  crosses  their  path.  The 
father  bids  the  young  man  forsake  his  wife  and  marry  the  heiress. 
He  refuses  and  is  disinherited,' 

And  another  :  ^ 

'  During  a  civil  war  a  woman  follows  her  husband,  though  her 
father  and  brother  are  on  the  other  side.  Her  husband's  side  is 
defeated  and  her  husband  killed.  She  returns  to  her  father  who 
will  not  receive  her.  She  asks  how  she  can  win  his  favour,  and 
he  replies  :  "  By  dying."  She  hangs  herself  before  his  door. 
The  father  is  accused  of  madness  by  his  son.' 

The  subjects  of  the  Suasoriae  were  more  historical, 
and  for  that  reason  were  less  popular.  Seneca  gives 
us  only  seven  examples  :  two  about  Alexander  the 
Great,  who  deliberates  whether  he  should  cross  the 
ocean  that  bounded  the  world,  and  whether  he 
should  enter  Babylon  in  spite  of  omens  and  auguries  ; 
two  others  about  the  Spartans  at  Thermopylae 
and  the  Athenians  after  Salamis  ;  another  about 
Agamemnon  and  Iphigeneia  ;  and  two  about  Cicero's 

1  Sen.  Conlr.  ii.  2.  2  n^i^^^  i  g,  3  ^7,j^_  x.  3. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  161 

last  hours.  These  last  two  are  interesting  for 
the  light  they  throw  on  Cicero's  personal  influence 
a  generation  after  his  death.  In  both  Cicero 
figures  as  the  martyr  of  his  eloquence.  '  Should 
he  ask  Mark  Antony  for  mercy  ?  '  '  Should  he 
burn  his  writings  as  the  price  of  safety  ?  '  ^  These 
are  the  questions  discussed,  and  their  development  is 
obvious.  But  Cicero's  name  was  not  always  held  in 
such  high  honour  by  the  rhetores  and  their  pupils.  It 
was  apparently  a  common  practice  to  compose 
declamations  in  answer  to  Cicero's  speeches.  Messalla 
and  Pollio,  for  example,  wrote  speeches  in  defence 
of  Catiline  ;  -  the  rhetor  Cestius  Pius  wrote  an  answer 
to  Cicero's  p'o  Milone  ;  ^  and  Brutus  wrote  a  pro 
Milone  of  his  own  as  a  school  exercise. "*  Sometimes 
these  speeches  were  attributed  to  some  well-known 
orator  of  Cicero's  day  :  Asconius  quotes  two  such 
speeches  in  answer  to  Cicero's  in  Toga  Candida,  one 
attributed  to  Catiline,  the  other  to  C.  Antonius.^ 
One  such  imaginary  speech  has  survived  as  the  work 
of  Sallust.^  It  is  a  short,  bitter,  invective  on  Cicero's 
private  life,  full  of  historical  allusions  to  the  years 
after  Cicero's  return  from  exile,  and  so  well  informed 
that  it  would  seem  to  have  been  based  on  some  con- 
temporary political  pamphlet,  possibly  the  work  of 

1  ibid.  Siias.  6,  7.  -  Quint,  x.  1,  24. 

^  Sen.  Contr.  iii,  praef.  15  ;  Quint,  x.  5,  20. 

*  Quint.  X.  1,  23  ;  5,  20.  ^  Ascon.,  p.  93  (Clark). 

^  It  has  recently  been  edited  by  A.  Kurfess  in  the  Teubner 
series.  I  hold  the  arguments  advanced  by  Kurfess  (in  Mnemosyne 
(1912),  pp.  364-80)  to  be  decisive  against  Sallust's  authorship. 
See  also  Kroll  in  Teuffel,  i,  p.  486. 

3029  X 


162  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

L.  Calpurnius  Piso.^  This  short  invective  has  a 
curious  history.  Dio  Cassius  gives  an  imaginary 
account  of  a  meeting  in  the  senate-house  shortly 
before  Cicero's  death.  Cicero's  speech  is  merely  a 
weak  reproduction  of  his  second  Philippic  :  ^  but 
Calenus  replies  in  a  long  speech,  which  follows  the 
earlier  Invective  point  by  point,  entering  into  all  the 
details  of  Cicero's  private  life,  and  distorting  every 
charge  into  an  extravagant  caricature.^  Apparently 
Dio  knew  the  Invective  itself,  or  some  later  rhetorical 
amplification  of  the  same  theme  ;  and  we  are  thus 
able  to  trace  the  history  of  this  school-declamation 
for  over  three  centuries.^ 

There  is  no  need  to  point  the  contrast  between 

1  Schwartz  in  Hermes,  vol.  xxxiii  (1898),  p.  106,  who  quotes 
Cic.  ad  Q.fr.iii.  I,  II.  I  do  not  accept  Schwartz's  main  contention 
that  Piso  wrote  the  Invective  as  we  now  have  it. 

2  Dio,  xlv.  18-47  ;  Schwartz  in  Pauly-Wissowa,  iii.  1719. 

3  Dio,  xlvi,  1-28  ;  Zielinski,  pp.  280  foil. 

*  This  is  not  the  place  to  discuss  the  interesting  problems 
connected  with  four  '  Pseudo-Sallustiana '  to  be  found  in  our 
MSS.  ;  but  I  should  like  to  say  that  I  regard  the  two  '  Invectives  ' 
{Sallusti  in  Ciceronem  and  Ciceronis  in  Sallustium)  as  products 
of  the  schools  of  rhetoric  :  the  latter  is  a  typically  dull  piece  of 
work.  The  speech  ad  Caesarem  senem  de  re  publica  is  also, 
I  believe,  a  suasoria  of  some  unknown  rhetor  ;  but  its  companion- 
piece,  which  comes  second  in  our  MS.,  is  very  probably  a  genuine 
political  pamphlet  written  by  Sallust  in  the  winter  of  50-49  B.C. 
See  Pohlmann's  able  article  in  Sitzb.  d.  k.  bay.  Ak.  d.  Wiss.  zu 
Milnchen,  ph. -hist.  Kl.  (1904),  pp.  3-79  [since  reprinted  in  his 
Aus  AUertum  und  Gegenwart,  Neue  Folge  (Miinchen,  Beck,  1911), 
pp.  184  foil.].  Pohlmann  argues  for  the  authenticity  of  both 
pieces  ;  but  I  cannot  agree  with  him  as  to  the  former  of  the  two. 
Pohlmann's  arguments  are  criticized  by  Kroll  in  Teuffel,  i,  p.  485, 
and  by  Schanz  (i.  2,  p.  185). 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  163 

these  extravagant  themes  and  the  historical  subjects 
proposed  by  Plotius  Gallus  or  by  Cicero  in  his  de 
Inventione ;  still  less  with  the  semi-philosophical 
theses  which  Cicero  favoured  later  in  life.  Nor  was 
the  contrast  in  any  way  shunned  by  the  new  teachers 
of  rhetoric  :  on  the  contrary,  they  gloried  in  their 
extravagances,  and  deliberately  encouraged  their 
pupils  to  imitate  their  most  obvious  faults.  Sueto- 
nius notes  one  characteristic  innovation.  '  The  older 
type  of  co7itroversiae  \  he  says,  '  were  taken  from 
history,  as  is  occasionally  done  to-day,  or  from  some 
true  story  which  might  have  happened  recently  ; 
that  is  why  place-names  were  always  added  in  the 
plot.'  1  But  the  new-fangled  controversia  was  made 
as  vague  and  unreal  as  possible.  Place-names  were 
almost  always  omitted ;  imaginary  pirates  and 
villains,  as  well  as  the  impossible  hero  and  heroine 
of  a  modern  film-drama,  were  the  usual  stock-in- 
trade  ;  and  the  laws  which  are  frequently  quoted  at 
the  beginning  of  a  plot,  and  which  form  the  basis  of 
the  whole  argument  proposed  for  discussion,  are 
taken  from  an  imaginary  legal  code — partly  Greek, 
partly  Roman  in  its  details — which  had  been 
gradually  elaborated  in  these  schools  of  rhetoric.- 

The  aim  of  all  this  unreality  and  vagueness  was  to 
leave  free  scope  for  the  professor's  imagination. 
Only  the  bare  minimum  of  fact  was  supplied  him  in 
the  plot.  The  rest — laws,  conventions,  locality, 
secondary  personages,  scenery  and  so  forth — he  was 

1  Suet.  Rhet.  1. 

2  Bomecque,  pp.  59  foil.  ;  Sprenger,  passim. 


164  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

free  to  invent,  and  these  additions  to  the  traditional 
plot  were  known  as  colores  :  a  new  color  was  as 
loudly  applauded  as  a  brilliant  sententia.  The  result 
was  inevitable.  No  serious  argument  was  possible 
on  such  fantastic  themes,  and  declamation  became 
a  mere  competition  in  extravagance.  The  Greek  and 
Latin  schools  of  rhetoric  under  the  Empire  helped 
to  create  a  new  literary  form,  the  romance.^  Their 
influence  on  Roman  education  was  wholly  disastrous. 
The  contrast  between  this  new  type  of  rhetoric  and 
the  declamations  which  Cicero  knew  is  marked  by 
a  change  in  the  terminology  of  the  schools,  which  the 
elder  Seneca  describes  as  follows  : 

'  Cicero  never  declaimed  what  we  call  coiitroversiae,  not  even 
those  which  were  in  use  before  his  time  and  which  were  called 
theses.  For  this  new  type  of  plot  which  we  use  in  our  exercises 
is  so  recent  that  its  very  name  is  new.  We  speak  of  controversiae  ; 
Cicero  called  them  causae.  Another  word  which  we  use,  scholastica 
— properly  a  Greek  word,  but  it  has  become  established  as  a  Latin 
word — is  much  more  recent  than  controversia  ;  just  as  the  word 
dedamatio  is  found  in  no  author  earlier  than  Cicero  or  Calvus. 
Calvus  defines  the  meaning  of  dedamatio  as  follows  :  "  To  declaim 
is  to  speak  in  private  with  more  than  ordinary  care."  He  is  right 
in  considering  declamation  a  private  exercise,  different  from  true 
oratory.  The  word  is  quite  new,  just  as  the  fashion  itself  is  of 
recent  origin.'  ^ 

This  attempt  at  technical  lexicography  is  instruc- 
tive :  but  it  needs  to  be  checked  by  actual  facts. 
Seneca  is  right  in  his  main  contention  that  the 
terminology  of  the  schools  had  changed  since  Cicero's 
day.  But  his  dogmatic  statements  lay  down  a  hard 
and  fast  rule  where  none  existed,  and  more  than  one 

1  Rohde,  pp.  361  foil.  2  g^^.  Conir.  i,  ^^rae/.  12. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  165 

modern  scholar  has  allowed  them  to  lead  him  astray.  ^ 
Dedamatio,  for  example,  was  not  first  used  by  Cicero  : 
it  is  found  in  the  ad  Herennium,^  and  there  is  no 
reason  for  thinking  that  the  anonymous  author 
invented  the  word  or  used  it  for  the  first  time  in  its 
familiar  sense  of  a  school-declamation.  And  Seneca 
is  wrong  in  his  statement  that  Cicero  spoke  of  causae, 
not  theses  or  controversiae.  Cicero  was  faced  with  the 
problem  of  translating  Greek  terminology  into  Latin, 
and  the  Greeks  regularly  used  the  terms  Oea-is  and 
vn69eo'L<;  for  the  two  main  types  of  declamation.^ 
The  Latin  words  causa  and  controversia  might  be 
used  to  translate  either  of  these  words,  and  Cicero's 
usage  varies.  In  his  de  Inventione,  controversia  means 
any  subject  for  declamation,  whilst  vTr66ecn<;  is 
translated  by  causa  and  9ecn<;  by  quaestio^  In  his 
de  Orator e  both  causa  and  controversia  are  used  for 
vTTodecn^,  whilst  ^ecrt?  is  translated  by  quaestio.^ 
And  in  his  latest  works  vnoOecn';  is  translated  by 
causa,  6'ecrt9  by  propositum.^ 

It  follows  that  Cicero  declaimed  both  theses  and 
controversiae  :  he  even  prided  himself  on  his  interest 
in  the  former.'  Yet  for  practical  purposes  Seneca  is 
right  in  saying  that  both  controversia  and  declamatio 
are  new  words,  for  their  meaning  is  now  fixed  for  the 

^  Boissier,  Tacite,  p.  205  ;  Wilkins,  p.  84 ;  Bornecque, 
pp.  39-48.  These  scholars  wrote  before  the  full  evidence  was 
brought  together  in  the  Thesaurus  Linguae  Latinae  (iii.  689  ; 
iv.  783). 

2  ad  Her.  iii.  20.  ^  gg^  above,  p.  116. 

*  de  Inv.  i.  8,  16  ;  ii.  11,  16.  ^  de  Or.  ii.  65  ;  iii.  109. 

«  Part.  or.  61  ;   Toil.  78.  '  ggg  above,  p.  117. 


166  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

first  time,  and  that  meaning  is  new.  Declamatio  is 
now  the  regular  word  for  any  school-exercise,  whilst 
controversia  is  used  for  the  imaginary  law-suits  which 
had  become  so  popular  in  the  schools  of  rhetoric. 
Imaginary  deliberations  on  some  more  general  topic, 
roughly  corresponding  to  the  Secret?  of  Hermagoras, 
are  now  called  suasoriae  :  Cicero  occasionally  called 
them  suasiones.^  And  this  terminology  remains 
fixed  for  a  considerable  period.  Quintilian  and 
Tacitus  both  speak  regularly  of  controversiae  and 
suasoriae.^ 

The  last  word  mentioned  by  Seneca,  scholastica, 
has  a  more  significant  history.  Quintilian  occasion- 
ally uses  it  in  the  sense  given  by  Seneca  ;  ^  but 
scliolasticus  is  more  commonly  used  to  denote  either 
a  student  or  professor  of  rhetoric*  The  word,  with 
its  Greek  derivation,  emphasizes  the  growing  separa- 
tion between  the  new  rhetoric  of  the  schools  and  the 
old  traditions  of  Roman  oratory.  Cicero  would  have 
called  the  new  style  an  umbratilis  doctrina,  with  the 
true  orator's  contempt  for  an  art  that  was  afraid  of 
the  open  air  and  the  forum  ;  ^  and  Pliny  actually 
couples  the  two  words  scliolasticus  and  umhraticus.^ 

One  of  these  '  indoor  orators  '  is  caricatured  by 
Petronius  in  his  Satire  ;  '  but  the  stories  told  by  the 
elder  Seneca  of  the  rlietores  whom  he  knew  in  actual 

1  de  Or.  ii.  333  ;  Or.  37.         ^  Quint,  passim  ;  Tac.  Dial.  14. 
^  Quint,  vii.  1,  14  ;  xi.  1,  82. 

*  Sen.  Contr.  iii,  praef.  16  ;  Petron.  Sat.  6,  10  ;  Pliny,  Ejpp. 
ii.  3,  5  ;  Tac.  Dial.  15,  42. 

«  de  Or.  i.  157  ;  Or.  64.  ^  Plin.  Epp.  ix.  2,  3. 

7  Petron.  Sat.  2. 


THE   NEW   RHETORIC  167 

life  are  so  fantastic  that  they  defy  the  caricaturist. 
Porcius  Latro  is  as  good  a  specimen  as  any.  Accord- 
ing to  Seneca,  who  came  from  the  same  town  as 
Latro  and  knew  him  well,  this  Spanish  schoolmaster 
was  the  greatest  declaimer  of  his  day.  His  talent 
for  extemporary  oratory  was  amazing,  his  physique 
powerful  enough  to  stand  the  strain  of  his  impas- 
sioned delivery,  and  his  memory  unfailingly  reten- 
tive :  '  no  man  had  greater  control  of  his  talent,  and  no 
man  abused  it  more  frequently '.^  Yet  Latro  was 
helpless  when  called  upon  to  address  any  audience 
outside  his  class-room.  On  one  occasion  he  was  asked 
to  speak  in  the  forum  on  behalf  of  a  kinsman.  The 
unfamiliar  surroundings  were  too  much  for  him  :  he 
began  with  a  blunder  in  grammar,  broke  down,  and 
was  unable  to  continue  until  the  magistrate,  out 
of  respect  for  the  distinguished  orator,  transferred 
the  court  from  the  open  air  to  a  neighbouring 
basilica.- 

Even  more  quaint  are  the  stories  told  by  Seneca 
of  another  rhetor,  Cestius  Pius.  Cestius  was  a  Greek 
by  birth,  but  had  made  his  fame  as  a  teacher  of  Latin 
rhetoric.^  Seneca  does  not  include  him  in  his  '  tetrad ' 
of  great  declaimers,  Porcius  Latro,  Arellius  Fuscus, 
Albucius  Silo,  and  Junius  Gallio,^  but  the  omission  is 
probably  due  to  personal  prejudice.  For  Cestius  was 
a  leader  of  the  anti-Ciceronian  party,  whilst  Seneca 

^  Sen.  Contr.  i,  praef.  13-24. 

-  ibid,  ix,  praef.  3  ;   Quint,  x.  5,  18. 

^  Sen.  Contr.  ix.  3,  13  ;  Bornecque,  p.  160. 

*  Sen.  Contr.  x,  praef.  13. 


168  THE   NEW   RHETORIC 

held  that  Roman  oratory  died  with  Cicero.^  Cestius 
pushed  his  contempt  for  Cicero  to  extremes.  '  He 
was  an  ignorant  fellow  ',  the  rhetor  would  tell  his 
pupils  ;  and  they  took  his  word  for  it,  skimming 
through  Cicero's  speeches  whilst  they  learnt  by 
heart  the  declamations  which  Cestius  wrote  in 
answer  to  the  orator.^  The  pose  did  not  go  un- 
punished :  for  Cicero's  drunken  young  son,  Marcus, 
once  ordered  Cestius  to  be  whipped  by  his  slaves  at 
a  dinner  in  his  house. ^  But  Cicero's  honour  was  more 
worthily  avenged  by  Cassius  Severus,  a  leading 
orator  of  the  Augustan  age  whom  Tacitus  mentions 
as  one  of  the  first  to  use  the  new  style  of  rhetoric  in 
his  oratory.''  Cassius  was  one  day  present  at  a 
lecture  given  by  Cestius,  when  the  rhetor  began  to 
brag  about  his  success.  '  If  I  were  a  gladiator  ',  he 
said,  '  I  would  be  Fusius  ;  if  I  were  a  dancer,  I  would 
be  Bathyllus  ;  if  I  were  a  racehorse,  I  would  be 
Melissio.'  The  allusions  were  to  favourites  of  the 
day  :  but  the  retort  was  unexpected.  '  Yes,'  cried 
Cassius  from  the  back  of  the  hall,^  '  and  if  you  were 
a  town-drain,  you  would  be  the  cloaca  maxima.^  ^ 
And  on  another  occasion  Cassius  exposed  the  rhetor's 
helplessness  by  dragging  him  from  one  court  in  the 
forum  to  another  ;  accusing  him  first  of  felony,  then 
of  ingratitude,  then  of  madness,  because  he  thought 
himself  more  eloquent  than  Cicero.    Poor  Cestius  was 

^  Sen.  Contr.  i,  praef.  6. 

2  ibid,  iii,  praef.  15  ;  ix.  3,  12  ;   Quint,  x.  5,  20. 

3  Sen.  Suas.  7,  13.  ^  Tae.  Dial.  19. 

^  Sen.  Contr.  iii,  praef.  16  (Cassius  is  being  quoted  by  Seneca). 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  169 

unable  to  silence  his  persecutor,  and  at  last  had  to  be 
forcibly  rescued  by  his  friends.^ 

A  story  like  that  brings  home  the  point  of  a 
criticism  made  by  the  younger  Seneca  in  one  of  his 
Letters  to  Lucilius  :  '  We  educate  ourselves  for  the 
class-room,  not  for  life  :  hence  the  extravagances 
with  which  we  are  troubled,  in  literature  as  in  every- 
thing else.'  ^  Yet  these  new  schools  of  rhetoric,  with 
all  their  artificial  brilliance  and  '  indoor  oratory ', 
were  patronized  by  the  leaders  of  Augustan  culture. 
Augustus  himself  was  a  frequent  visitor  at  the 
public  declamations  given  in  the  schools,  and  he  was 
sometimes  accompanied  by  Tiberius."  Maecenas, 
whose  own  literary  style  was  modelled  on  the  new 
rhetoric,'*  Messalla,  Agrippa,  and  Asinius  Pollio  are 
all  mentioned  by  the  elder  Seneca  as  regular  visitors.^ 
Pollio' s  criticisms  were  considered  authoritative,  and 
he  even  declaimed  himself  before  a  carefully  selected 
audience.^  And  Suetonius  tells  us  that  the  fashion 
for  declamation  increased  steadily  under  the  reign 
of  Tiberius,  reaching  its  height  under  Nero,  who  was 
himself  a  keen  student  of  rhetoric.'' 

But  the  most  characteristic  figure  in  all  this 
literary  history  is  Ovid,  the  poet  whose  verses  were 
the  model  for  declaimers  as  well  as  for  poets,^  and 

1  ibid,  iii,  pmef.  17.  2  g^n.  Ei^p.  106,  12. 

3  Sen.  Contr.  ii.  4,  12-13  ;  iv,  ^raef.  7  ;  x.  5,  21  ;  Suas.  3,  6-7. 

4  Suet.  Oct.  86  ;  Sen.  Epp.  114,  4-8  ;  Quint,  ix.  4,  28  ;  Tac. 
Dial.  26.  5  gen.  Contr.  ii.  4,  12  ;  Suas.  3,  6, 

^  Sen.  Contr.  iv,  jyraef.  2-5  ;  Bornecque,  p.  155. 

'  Suet.  Rhet.  1  ;  Nero,  10. 

^  Sen.  Contr.  iii.,  Exc.  7  ;  ix.  5,  17  ;  x.  4,  25  ;  Vergil  was  also 

3029  v- 


170  THE  NEW   RHETORIC 

whose  rhetoric  was  as  elegant  as  his  verse.  Ovid 
tells  us  himself  that  his  father  had  made  him  study- 
rhetoric  under  the  best  professors  in  Rome,i  and 
Seneca  mentions  Latro,  Gallio,  and  Arellius  Fuscus 
as  his  masters.^  Here  is  Seneca's  description  of  the 
poet's  performance,  sketched  from  life  : 

'  His  style  was  elegant,  appropriate  and  agreeable  ;  even  then 
his  oratory  was  unmistakably  poetry  in  prose.  He  was  so  keen 
a  student  of  Latro's  declamations  that  he  inserted  many  of  Latro's 
sententiae  in  his  poems.  He  rarely  declaimed  controversiae,  and 
only  when  the  subject  had  some  psj^chological  interest :  his 
preference  was  for  suasoriae.  All  argument  was  distasteful  to 
him.  His  choice  of  words  was  never  extravagant,  except  in  his 
poems  :  there  he  knew  his  fault,  but  loved  it.'  ^ 

That  last  phrase  might  be  applied  to  all  these 
rhetores.  Cestius  Pius,  for  example,  once  made  the 
following  frank  admission  to  his  class  :  '  Here  I  know 
that  I  am  talking  nonsense  ;  but  I  say  many  things 
to  please  my  audience,  not  to  please  myself.'  ^  And 
another  rhetor^  Votienus  Montanus,  was  even  more 
frank  in  a  private  conversation  with  the  elder 
Seneca.  '  A  man  who  comj)oses  a  declamation  ',  he 
said,  '  does  not  write  to  convince,  but  to  please. 
That  is  why  he  seeks  out  tricks  of  style,  and  leaves 
argument  alone,  because  it  is  troublesome  and  gives 
little  scope  for  rhetoric.  He  is  content  to  beguile 
his  audience   with   his   sententiae  and  digressions  : 

much  admired  by  the  rheiores  (Sen.  Suas.  3,  4-7  ;  Comparetti, 
pp.  34  foil.).  1  Ovid.  Trist.  iv.  10,  15. 

2  Sen.  Contr.  ii.  2,  8  ;  Suas.  3,  7. 

3  Sen.  Contr.  ii.  2,  8-12. 

4  ibid.  ix.  6,  12. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  171 

for    he   wants   to    be   applauded,    not  to  win  his 
case.'  1 

The  transition  from  oratory  to  rhetoric  could 
hardly  be  expressed  more  plainly,  and  the  unreality 
of  these  new  declamations  was  not  confined  to  their 
artificial  and  exaggerated  style.  Legal  argument  and 
historical  truth  were  both  neglected  by  the  rhetores, 
the  latter  to  a  degree  which  modern  taste  would  find 
intolerable.  One  or  two  examples  may  be  quoted. 
Seneca's  collection  of  Suasoriae  includes  one  on  the 
three  hundred  Spartans  at  Thermopylae :  a  suffi- 
ciently dramatic  setting  for  any  lover  of  rhetoric. 
But  the  theme,  as  he  propounds  it,  shows  how  even 
the  most  familiar  story  was  twisted  by  the  rhetores 
for  their  purposes.  The  three  hundred  Spartans  are 
supported  by  a  battalion  of  three  hundred  from  every 
Greek  state  :  all  have  fled  and  the  Spartan  battalion 
remains  alone. ^  And  in  a  controversia  we  learn  that 
the  people  of  Elea  ordered  the  hands  of  Pheidias  to 
be  cut  off  for  sacrilege  !  ^  Tacitus  complains  that 
history  was  neglected  in  the  schools  of  rhetoric* 
His  complaint  is  borne  out  by  the  elder  Seneca,  who 
apologizes  to  his  sons  for  an  historical  digression 
which  he  makes  towards  the  end  of  his  Suasoriae. 
They  prefer  rhetoric  to  history,  he  knows  ;  so  he 
adds  one  last  suasoria  to  his  collection,  for  fear  they 
should  stop  reading  where  he  has  deserted  the 
scholastici.^ 

1  ibid,  ix,  praef.  1.         ^  gg^  Suas.  2  ;  Bornecque,  pp.  86  foil. 

^  Sen.  Contr.  viii.  2. 

4  Tac.  Dial  29.  ^  Sen.  Suas.  6,  16,  27. 


172  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

But  what  of  the  exempla  from  Roman  history 
which  Cicero  and  Quintilian  both  recommend  to  their 
students  ?  How  could  they  be  aptly  used  without 
a  thorough  knowledge  of  Greek  and  Roman  history  ? 
Roman  publishers  asked  themselves  the  question, 
and  the  demand  was  not  long  in  producing  the  supply. 
The  Memorable  Sayings  and  Doings  of  Valerius 
Maximus  is  a  book  which  few  students  of  Latin 
literature  take  the  trouble  to  read  ;  and  they  do 
well.  But  the  book  is  important  in  the  history  of 
Roman  education ;  for  it  was  written  to  save  students 
of  rhetoric  the  labour  of  studying  Greek  and  Roman 
history.  Valerius  Maximus  makes  this  quite  plain 
in  his  preface.  He  has  written  the  book,  he  tells  us, 
'  to  spare  those  who  want  to  learn  the  lessons  of 
history  the  trouble  of  prolonged  researches  '  ;  ^  and 
this  politely  vague  formula  indicates  the  teachers  and 
students  of  rhetoric.  The  book  is  planned  exactly 
according  to  their  needs,  and  is  best  described  as 
a  dictionary  of  rhetorical  exempla.  No  attempt  is 
made  at  chronological  order  or  connected  narrative. 
Each  incident  is  an  isolated  episode,  designed  to 
illustrate  a  particular  virtue  or  vice,  and  grouped 
under  some  convenient  heading.  The  first  book,  for 
example,  treats  of  religion,  and  is  subdivided  into 
chapters  on  superstition,  omens,  prodigies,  dreams, 
and  miracles.  The  second  book  treats  of  various 
national  institutions  ;  the  third  of  human  character, 
and  is  subdivided  into  chapters  on  fortitude, 
patience,  and  so  forth.  As  a  manual  for  use  in 
1  Val.  Max.  praef.  1  ;  Norden,  i,  p.  303. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  173 

schools  of  rhetoric,  the  work  is  admirably  planned  : 
as  a  text-book  of  Roman  history  it  is  a  tell-tale 
document.  Cicero  had  very  different  ideas  when  he 
bade  his  orator  study  Roman  history  for  its  lessons 
of  wisdom  and  virtue. 

The  elder  Seneca  spent  most  of  his  life  in  the  schools 
of  rhetoric,  and  only  wearied  of  the  art  in  his  old  age.^ 
But  his  judgement  on  the  value  of  these  artificial 
performances  is  sound,  and  may  be  taken  as  summing 
up  the  tendencies  described  in  this  and  the  preceding 
chapter.  Addressing  his  three  sons  in  the  preface  to 
his  Controversiae  he  says  : 

'  You  are  right,  my  boys,  not  to  be  contented  with  the  models 
of  your  own  generation,  but  to  want  to  hear  about  earlier  days. 
The  more  models  you  study,  the  greater  will  be  your  progress  in 
oratory.  And  you  will  learn  also  to  judge  the  decline  which  has 
set  in  and  the  decadence  into  which,  b}^  some  perversion  of 
nature,  our  oratory  has  fallen.  For  all  the  great  Roman  orators 
who  can  be  compared  with  the  glories  of  Greece,  or  even  preferred 
to  them,  lived  in  the  days  of  Cicero  :  all  the  men  of  genius  wiio 
have  shed  lustre  on  our  schools  w^ere  born  in  that  generation. 
Since  then  things  have  gone  from  bad  to  worse  :  partly  because 
of  our  increasing  luxury,  for  luxury  is  always  fatal  to  genius 
partly  because  there  is  no  prize  left  for  the  noblest  of  arts,  and 
all  our  energies  are  given  to  the  vices  which  now  win  honour  and 
w^ealth  ;  partly  because  nature's  stem  law  requires  that  all  high 
achievement  shall  end  in  a  fall,  swifter  than  our  ascent  to  the 
heights.'  2 

§  3.     Rhetoric  and  Philosophi/. 

*  By  a  perversion  of  nature  ',  to  use  Seneca's  own 

phrase,  one  of  the  boys  to  whom  these  words  were 

addressed   was   to    become    the    greatest   personal 

1  Sen.  Contr.  x,  praef.  1  ;  Suas.  2,  23  ;  6,  16. 
^  Sen.  Contr.  i,  praef.  6-7. 


174  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

factor  in  the  reaction  against  Ciceronian  ideals.  The 
younger  Seneca's  life  presents  a  curiously  close 
parallelism  with  Cicero's  personal  history.  Both 
were  novi  homines^  who  owed  their  social  position  to 
their  talent  and  the  charm  of  their  personality  ;  both 
were  students  rather  than  men  of  action,  by  tem- 
perament literary  artists,  not  statesmen  or  politicians. 
Yet  both  were  called  upon  to  take  a  leading  part  in 
contemporary  politics  ;  and  both  died — not  ignobly 
— the  victims  of  their  political  failure.  Both  men, 
too,  felt  the  fascination  of  Greek  philosophy,  and 
gave  much  of  their  energies  to  popularizing  Greek 
thought  in  Rome  ;  and  both  showed  an  amazingly 
varied  facility  of  production.  But  there  the  likeness 
ends.  Cicero  was  an  orator  who  found  in  philosophy 
the  means  of  satisfying  his  intellectual  curiosity  ; 
Seneca  was  a  philosopher,  suspicious  of  everything 
that  might  distract  him  from  his  habits  of  intro- 
spection and  his  interest  in  moral  principles.  Yet  the 
Letters  to  Lucilius  are  as  typical  of  their  age  as  are 
the  de  Oratore  and  the  Hortensius. 

For  philosophy,  like  rhetoric,  had  changed  its 
character  under  the  stress  of  a  social  revolution. 
Just  as  Caesar's  dictatorship  forced  Cicero  to  question 
the  ethical  foundations  on  which  his  philosophy 
rested  and  led  him  to  write  the  Hortensius,  the 
Tusculan  Disputations,  and  the  de  Ojjiciis,  so  the 
permanent  establishment  of  the  Empire  under 
Augustus  and  his  immediate  successors  forced 
thoughtful  men  back  upon  themselves  and  gave 
their  philosophy  a  new  purpose.     Two  figures  are 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  175 

prominent  in  the  history  of  Roman  philosophy 
between  Cicero  and  Seneca  :  Q.  Sextius,  the  founder 
of  a  new  school,  half  Stoic,  half  Pythagorean  in  its 
tenets,!  and  L.  Annaeus  Cornutus,  a  Stoic  and  the 
tutor  of  Persius  and  Lucan.^  Both  men  were 
primarily  interested  in  questions  of  moral  conduct, 
and  both  show  that  marked  tendency  to  an  austere 
self-denial  which  is  henceforth  characteristic  of 
Roman  Stoicism.  It  was  just  this  ethical  austerity 
that  gave  these  men  their  influence  :  for  the  first 
time  in  the  history  of  Roman  society  we  hear  of 
'  conversions '  to  philosophy  involving  a  radical 
change  in  the  convert's  manner  of  life.  One  of  the 
earliest  is  described  by  Suetonius.^  L.  Crassicius, 
a  native  of  Tarentum  but  of  Latin  rather  than  Greek 
culture,  began  life  as  a  playwright  and  then  opened 
a  school  of  Latin  literature.  The  school  proved  a 
success  and  became  fashionable ;  but  just  as 
Crassicius  was  beginning  to  rival  Verrius  Flaccus, 
then  at  the  height  of  his  fame,  he  came  under  the 
influence  of  Sextius,  closed  his  school  and  joined  the 
new  philosophical  sect.  Similarly  Papirius  Fabianus, 
a  brilliant  young  rhetor  who  had  studied  rhetoric 
under  Arellius  Fuscus,  and  was  making  a  name  for 
himself  at  a  very  early  age,  suddenly  threw  up 
rhetoric  for  philosophy  and  joined  the  school  of 
Sextius.*     His   conversion  is   of  peculiar  interest, 

1  Sen.  Ejpp.  59,  7  ;    64,  2-5  ;    Hirzel  in  Gardthausen,  iii.  1, 
pp.  1296  foil. 

2  Vit.  Pers.  4  ;    Vit.  Lucan.  ;  Schanz,  i,  2,  pp.  372  foil. 

3  Suet.  Gram.  18. 

*  Sen.  Contr.  ii,  praef.  1-2  ;  Bomecque,  p.  185. 


176  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

because  it  involved  a  break  with  his  former  Uterary 
style.  As  a  rhetor  Fabianus  had  indulged  in  every 
extravagance  of  the  new  manner  :  as  a  philosopher 
he  continued  his  study  of  rhetoric,  but  aimed  at 
a  simpler  style  and  achieved  real  eloquence,  so  we 
are  told,  in  spite  of  occasional  obscurity.^ 

A  generation  later  Persius  went  through  a  similar 
intellectual  crisis  at  the  age  of  sixteen  :  from  being 
a  pupil  of  Remmius  Palaemon  and  a  keen  student  of 
rhetoric  he  became  the  disciple  of  Annaeus  Cornutus 
and  gave  himself  wholly  to  the  study  of  Stoic 
philosophy."  But  the  most  famous  of  all  these 
youthful  conversions  is  described  by  Seneca  in  his 
Letters  to  Lucilius.^  The  philosopher's  father  had  set 
his  heart  on  seeing  his  three  sons  become  great 
orators.  The  eldest,  Novatus,  was  adopted  by  the 
rhetor  Junius  Gallio,  and  figures  as  the  proconsul 
Gallio  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles.  The  youngest, 
Mela,  became  a  professor  of  rhetoric  himself  and 
was  the  father  of  Lucan.  Seneca  himself  was  the 
favourite  son,  and  was  urged  by  his  father  to  become 
an  advocate.  But  his  real  taste  was  for  philosophy, 
which  he  had  studied  under  Fabianus,  Attains,  and 
Sotion,  all  of  them  philosophers  of  the  new  austere 
type.*  A  struggle  was  inevitable,  for  his  father 
disliked  philosophy,  and  had  already  prevented 
Seneca's  mother  Helvia  from  interesting  herself  in  it.^ 

^  Sen.  Contr.  ii,  praef.  5  ;  Sen.  Epp.  100.  ^  yn^  Pers.  4-5. 

3  Sen.  Epp.  108,  13-22  ;  Waltz,  pp.  31  foil. 
^  Sen.  Epp.  49,  2  ;  52,  11  ;   100,  12  ;   108,^3. 
^  Sen.  ad  Helv.  matr.  17,  4. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  177 

The  crisis  came  when  Seneca  began  to  adopt  a 
vegetarian  diet.  He  had  abeady  learnt  to  live 
poorly,  to  drink  no  wine,  to  sleep  on  a  hard  couch, 
to  refuse  oysters  and  mushrooms  at  table  and  so 
forth  :  this  last  extravagance  was  too  much.  The 
boy's  health  was  beginning  to  suffer,  and  his  father 
insisted  on  a  more  normal  diet.  Seneca  yielded,  but 
the  change  was  only  external.  As  an  old  man  he 
boasts  that,  whatever  else  might  be  said  of  him,  he 
had  always  been  faithful  to  his  hard  couch  :  ^  no  bad 
test  of  practical  Stoicism. 

Seneca  was  not  the  only  young  man  of  his  time 
to  make  these  experiments  in  diet,  and  the  change 
from  Cicero's  ideal  of  philosophy  is  evident.  The 
days  were  past  when  an  orator  could  plunge  into  the 
study  of  philosophy  and  yet  lose  none  of  his  interest 
in  rhetoric.  Under  the  Empire  philosophy  becomes 
a  definite  profession,  involving  definite  moral  obliga- 
tions and  separating  the  philosopher,  even  in 
externals,  from  the  ordinary  life  of  Rome :  an 
isolation  which  makes  philosophy  more  than  ever 
suspect  in  the  eyes  of  Roman  conservatives  as  well 
as  the  imperial  government.  And  this  isolation 
tended  to  force  philosophy  out  of  the  ordinary 
'  encyclic  '  programme  of  studies :  for  the  ey/cv/cXto? 
TTtttSeta  was  by  its  very  name  an  education  for  the 
ordinary  man.  One  of  Seneca's  Letters  to  Lucilius 
makes  the  point  clear.  Posidonius  had  divided  the 
'  arts  '  into  two  classes  :  the  truly  '  liberal '  arts, 
which  teach  virtue  and  nothing  else,  and  the '  childish  * 
1  Sen.  Epp.  108,  23. 

3029  2 


178  THE  NEW  RHETORIC 

arts  {pueriles),  '  which  the  Greeks  call  ey/cu/cXiot 
and  the  Romans  liberates  '.^  Seneca  approves  of  the 
distinction,  and  justifies  it  in  an  elaborate  criticism 
of  all  the  artes  liherales.  One  by  one  they  are 
analysed  in  turn  and  shown  to  be  incapable  of 
teaching  moral  excellence.  '  Are  they  of  any  use  ?  ' 
Seneca  asks  himself,  and  the  answer  is  characteristic 
of  his  attitude  :  '  They  are  useful  for  everything  else, 
but  not  for  virtue.  Like  the  manual  arts  which  are 
admittedly  vulgar,  they  are  of  great  practical  utility, 
but  have  no  relation  to  virtue.  Then  why  do  we 
teach  our  children  the  liberal  arts  ?  Not  because 
they  can  give  virtue,  but  because  they  prepare  the 
mind  to  receive  virtue.'  ^  Or  as  he  had  already  put 
it  in  a  characteristic  epigram  :  '  Our  duty  is  not  to 
study  them,  but  to  have  studied  them.'  ^ 

Plainly  this  ideal  of  a  philosophic  life  differs 
widely  from  Cicero's  politior  humanitas,  and  it  is  no 
mere  accident  that  this  very  letter  from  Seneca  to 
Lucilius  contains  a  definition  of  humanitas  which 
limits  that  virtue  to  the  practice  of  kindliness  and 
natural  affection.*  Seneca's  definition  lacks  Cicero's 
intellectual  breadth  of  view,  and  his  more  narrow 
ideal  of  human  excellence  marks  a  falling-off  from  the 
earlier  Graeco-Roman  ideal.  But  it  would  be  wrong 
to  take  Seneca's  attack  on  the  artes  liberates  too 
seriously.  In  an  essay  On  Consolation^  written  when 
he  was  in  exile  and  dedicated  to  his  mother,  he  bids 
her  take  refuge  from  her  grief  in  the  study  of  the 

1  Sen.  Epp.  88,  21-3.  ^  ^-^^-^  gg^  gO.  ^  ibid.  88,  2. 

4  ibid,  88,  30  ;  cf.  Epp.  4,  10  ;   81,  26  ;   116,  5. 


THE  NEW  RHETORIC  17d 

liberal  arts  :  '  They  will  heal  your  wound,  they  will 
pluck  care  from  your  heart,  as  they  do  for  all  who 
fly  to  them  from  misfortune.'  ^  And  even  in  the 
letter  to  Lucilius  on  the  artes  liberates  there  is  one 
notable  omission.  Literature,  music,  geometry, 
arithmetic,  astronomy,  painting,  sculpture,  athletics  : 
all  these  are  examined  in  turn,  and  rejected.  Not 
a  word  is  said  about  rhetoric.  Elsewhere  Seneca 
definitely  ranks  eloquence  as  beneath  philosophy,"^ 
but  here  rhetoric,  the  most  conspicuous  of  all  the 
artes,  is  passed  by  in  silence.  Possibly  Seneca  did 
not  wish  to  condemn  in  public  an  art  which  had  made 
his  brothers  famous  :  or  was  there  a  more  personal 
motive  ?  No  writer  of  the  period  is  more  rhetorical 
than  this  austere  moralist :  Seneca  declaiming 
against  rhetoric  might  have  made  even  Lucilius 
smile. 

1  Sen.  ad  Helv.  matr.  17,  3.  ^  gg^.  Epp.  40,  12. 


IX 

QUINTILIAN 

Quintiliane,  vagae  moderator  summe  iuventae, 
Gloria,  Romanae,  Quintiliane,  togae.     Mart.  ii.  90. 

§  1.  The  '  Institutio  Oratoria  ', 
QuiNTiLiAN  was  a  Spaniard  and  a  professional 
man,  who  owed  his  fortune  wholly  to  the  Empire. 
No  better  type  of  the  new  society  could  be  desired, 
and  the  Institutio  Oratoria  should  be  read  in  the  light 
of  its  author's  antecedents.  For  Quintilian  is  a 
Ciceronian  ;  but  his  Ciceronianism  is  something  new 
and  personal,  the  product  partly  of  his  own  study 
and  enthusiasm,  partly  of  his  surroundings. 

According  to  Ausonius  and  St.  Jerome,^  who  are 
both  most  probably  dependent  for  their  information 
on  a  lost  chapter  of  the  de  Claris  rhetoribiis,'^  Quinti- 
lian was  a  native  of  Calagurris  in  Northern  Spain 
(Tarraconensis).  Of  his  early  life  we  know  nothing, 
though  his  birth  must  be  dated  somewhere  between 
A.  D.  30  and  40.^  As  a  young  man  {adulescentulus)  he 
was  in  Rome  and  an  admirer  of  Domitius  Afer,  the 
famous  orator  from  Nemausus  in  Gallia  Narbonensis.^ 

1  Auson.  prof.  Burd.  1,  7  ;  St.  Jerome,  Chron.,  a.d.  88. 
^  See  the  index  to  the  lost  chapters  in  Reifferscheid's  text, 
p.  99. 
^  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  453  ;  Colson,  p.  ix. 
«  Quint.  V.  7,  7  ;  vi.  1,  14  ;  x.  1,  86  ;  xii.  11,  3. 


QUINTILIAN  181 

Possibl}^  Quintilian  had  gone  from  Calagurris  to 
Kome  as  a  school-boy  :  at  any  rate  he  was  a  student 
of  rhetoric  there  before  a.  d.  58,  the  date  of  Afer's 
death.  An  unknown  scholiast  on  Juvenal's  sixth 
satire  names  Quintilian  as  a  pupil  of  Remmius 
Palaemon/  and  there  is  nothing  in  the  chronology 
to  make  us  doubt  this  statement ;  but  Quintilian 
himself,  who  quotes  Palaemon,"  does  not  speak  of 
him  as  his  master,  and  it  is  possible  that  the  scholiast 
is  wrong.  Once  his  studies  were  completed,  Quinti- 
lian went  back  to  Spain,  probably  as  an  advocate  as 
well  as  a  teacher  of  rhetoric.  The  combination  of  the 
two  professions  was  not  unusual,^  and  Quintilian 
practised  them  both  later  in  life  at  Rome.* 

Quintilian  returned  to  Rome  in  a.  d.  68  as  a  client 
of  the  Emperor  Galba,^  and  remained  there  for  the 
rest  of  his  life.  Galba  was  murdered  a  few  months 
after  his  arrival,  but  Quintilian  soon  found  a  more 
powerful  patron.  Vespasian,  the  self-made  Emperor, 
took  an  interest  in  the  successful  schoolmaster,  and 
made  him  the  first  public  professor  of  Latin  rhetoric 
in  Rome.  The  appointment  marks  a  definite  stage 
in  the  history  of  Roman  educational  policy,  and  needs 
a  word  of  explanation.  Our  information  is  derived 
ultimately  from  Suetonius,  but  the  most  important 
detail  has  got  confused  by  St.  Jerome  in  his  Chronicle 
for  the  year  a.  d.  88. 

1  Schol.  ad  Juv.  vi.  452.  ^  Quint,  i.  4,  20  ;  Colson,  p.  x. 

3  Mart.  ii.  64  ;  Friedlaender,  i,  p.  180  (i,  p.  328). 
«  Quint,  iv.  2,  86  ;  vii.  2,  5  ;  2,  24  ;  ix.  2,  73. 
^  St.  Jerome,  Chron.,  a.  d.  68. 


182  QUINTILIAN 

Suetonius  tells  us  that  Vespasian  '  was  the  first  to 
establish  a  fixed  salary  (100,000  sesterces  a  year)  for 
teachers  of  Latin  and  Greek  rhetoric  '.^  The  words 
are  vague,  and  might  mean  a  general  subsidy  for 
distinguished  professors  ;  but  we  can  supplement 
this  statement  from  another  source.  In  his  Lives  of 
the  Sophists  Philostratus  frequently  mentions  a 
public  chair  of  Greek  rhetoric  at  Rome,^  and  dis- 
tinguishes it  from  a  similar  chair  which  the  Emperor 
Hadrian  had  founded  at  Athens,  by  the  title  of  '  the 
upper  chair  '  (6  aVw  Opouos)-^  This  is  plainly  the  kind 
of  chair  to  which  St.  Jerome  alludes  in  his  entry  for 
the  year  a.  d.  88  :  '  Quintilian,  a  native  of  Calagurris 
in  Spain,  was  the  first  to  get  a  public  chair  (publicam 
scholam)  at  Rome  and  a  salary  from  the  fiscus,  and 
was  famous.'  *  The  fiscus  was  the  imperial  treasury, 
and  Vespasian's  endowment  was  an  imperial  act : 
so  that  our  authorities  confirm  one  another  on  this 
point.  Furthermore  a  salary  of  100,000  sesterces 
had  been  paid  by  Augustus  to  Verrius  Flaccus  as 
the  tutor  of  his  two  grandsons,^  and  was  equivalent 
to  a  post  in  the  second  division  of  the  imperial  civil 
service.^ 

One  difficulty  remains :  Vespasian  died  in  a.  d.  79, 
and  St.  Jerome  dates  the  entry  in  his  Chronicle  to 

1  Suet.  Vesp.  18. 

2  Philost.  Vit.  Soph.  (ed.  Kayser),  580,  589,  594,  596,  627. 

3  ibid.  623. 

^  There  is  no  need  to  change  the  wording  of  St.  Jerome's  text, 
as  has  been  done  by  modem  critics  without  any  manuscript 
authority. 

^  Suet.  Gram.  17.  •"'  Barbagallo,  p.  89. 


QUINTILIAN  183 

A.  D.  88.  The  conflict  of  authority  is  only  apparent, 
for  St.  Jerome  has  borrowed  a  whole  series  of  entries 
about  distinguished  orators  and  teachers  from 
Suetonius/  and  there  is  no  reason  to  think  that  this 
entry  about  Quintilian  is  taken  from  any  other 
source.  But  St.  Jerome  is  notoriously  inaccurate, 
and  his  Chronicle  was  put  together  in  a  hurry.  The 
date  which  he  gives  must  be  wrong,  and  Quintilian's 
appointment  must  fall  between  the  years  a.  d.  70 
and  79.  The  opening  words  of  the  Institutio  Oratoria 
suggest  a  date  somewhere  between  70  and  73  ;  for 
Quintilian  there  says  that  he  is  writing  his  work  '  now 
that  I  have  been  granted  a  rest  from  my  labours  of 
the  past  twenty  years  in  the  education  of  youth  '. 
These  words  are  usually  understood  as  referring  to 
his  whole  career  as  teacher,  both  in  Spain  and  at 
Rome  ;  but  they  plainly  allude  to  his  position  as 
public  professor  in  the  imperial  service  :  otherwise 
there  would  be  no  sense  in  talking  of  a  rest  which  had 
been  granted  him  by  somebody  {post  impetratam 
studiis  meis  quietem).  Now  there  is  excellent  reason 
for  dating  the  first  book  of  the  Institutio  Oratoria 
between  a.  d.  91  and  93,^  and  Quintilian  speaks  of 
his  retirement  as  '  some  time  ago  '  (iam  pridem)  in 
the  second  book.^  It  follows  that  the  appointment 
should  probably  be  dated  some  twenty  years  earlier, 
about  A.D.  71. 

1  St.  Jerome,  Chron.,  88  b.  c.  (=  Suet.  Rhet.  2) ;  81  b.  c.  ( =  ibid. 
3)  ;  6  B.  c.  ( =  ibid.  6)  ;  9  b.  c.  (=  Suet.  Gram.  20)  ;  4  b.  c.  {  =  ibid. 
21).  Th'e  question  has  been  studied  by  Mommsen  in  his  Quellen 
der  Chronik  des  Hieronymus. 

-  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  457.  ^  Qujnt.  ii.  12,  12. 


184  QUINTILIAN 

Quintilian's  position  as  public  professor  of  Latin 
rhetoric  marked  him  out  as  the  head  of  his  profession, 
and  all  the  allusions  to  his  name  in  the  literature  of 
the  period  show  that  Quintilian  was  a  man  of  high 
social  standing.  Juvenal,  who  was  himself  a  teacher 
of  rhetoric  and  knew  the  seamy  side  of  his  profession, 
cites  Quintilian  as  the  one  conspicuous  exception  to 
his  general  complaint  that  schoolmasters  are  ill-paid 
and  over-worked ;  ^  Martial  addresses  flattering 
verses  to  his  distinguished  compatriot ;  ^  and  Phny 
is  obviously  proud  of  the  fact  that  Quintilian  was  his 
master.^  Fortune  follows  the  fortunate,  and  Quinti- 
lian's record  as  public  professor  earned  him  towards 
the  end  of  his  hfe  a  second  appointment  as  tutor  to 
the  two  sons  of  Flavius  Clemens.*  The  boys  had 
just  been  adopted  by  Domitian  as  heirs  to  his  throne, 
and  the  appointment  seems  to  have  carried  with  it 
the  consular  insignia  :  an  honour  which  Quintilian 
owed,  so  Ausonius  tells  us,  to  the  influence  of  Flavius 
Clemens.^  From  first  to  last  Quintilian's  record  is 
thus  the  type  of  a  successful  career  ;  and  his  educa- 
tional theory  represents  the  experience  of  a  highly- 
favoured  and  fashionable  professor,  not  of  an 
ordinary  Roman  schoolmaster.  Many  of  the  counsels 
given  in  the  Institutio  Oratoria  need  to  be  read  in  the 
light  of  these  facts. 

The  Institutio  Oratoria  was  written  some  time  after 
Quintilian's  retirement.     Two  years  were  needed  to 

1  Juv.  vi.  75,  280  ;  vii.  186  foil.  ^  j^j^^.^  -   qq 

3  Pliny,  Epp.  ii.  14,  10  ;  vi.  6,  3. 

^  Quint,  iv,  prooem.  2.  ^  Auson.  Grat.  act.  7,  31. 


QUINTILIAN  185 

complete  it/  and  the  date  of  publication  should 
probably  be  fixed  between  a.d.  93  and  95.  It  was  not 
Quintilian's  first  attempt  at  literary  work.  As  a 
young  man  he  had  published  a  speech  {actio)  for 
which  he  apologizes  in  his  old  age  ;  ^  and  three  years 
or  so  before  he  began  work  on  the  Institutio  he 
published  an  essay  On  the  Decay  of  Oratory  and  its 
Causes,^  which  must  have  covered  some  of  the  ground 
later  gone  over  more  thoroughly  in  the  longer  work. 
For  the  Institutio  oratoria  is  more  than  a  text-book 
of  rhetoric.  Its  very  title  marks  it  off  as  something 
distinct  from  the  ordinary  manual  [Ars  rhetorica,  or 
de  Arte  dicendi)}  Quintilian  himself  mentions  the 
title  of  his  work  in  his  prefatory  letter  to  the  book- 
seller Trypho,^  and  explains  in  his  preface  to  the  first 
book  v/hy  he  chose  this  unusual  form. 

'  All  others  who  have  written  on  the  art  of  oratory  begin  b}^ 
presupposing  an  ordinary  general  education,  and  assume  that 
their  task  is  to  give  the  finishing  touch  of  eloquence.^  Perhaps 
they  despised  the  preparatory  studies  as  less  important ;  or 
perhaps  they  considered  them  to  be  outside  their  proper  work, 
now  that  the  professions  are  divided  ;  or,  most  probably,  they 
saw  no  prospect  of  popularity'  for  good  work  on  a  subject  which 
is  very  necessary,  but  unostentatious  :  men  usually  admire  the 
roof  of  a  building,  and  forget  the  foundations.  In  my  opinion, 
nothing  that  is  necessary  for  the  training  of  an  orator  is  foreign 

1  Quint,  praef.  ad  Tryph.  1.  ^  ibid.  vii.  2,  24. 

^  ibid,  vi,  prooem.  3  ;  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  454. 

*  Quint,  ii.  17,  2  ;  Borner,  pp.  11  foil. 

°  Institutio  Oratoria  is  the  title  given  in  the  best  manuscript ; 
the  others  are  divided  between  Institutiones  oraioriae  and  de 
Institutione  oratoria  (Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  457). 

*  See  Colson's  note  ad  loc. 

3029  J,  a 


186  QUINTILIAN 

to  the  art  of  oratory  :  you  never  can  get  to  the  top  without 
beginning  somewhere.  Therefore,  I  shall  not  disdain  those  less 
important  subjects  without  which  the  more  important  have  no 
place,  but  shall  begin  my  orator's  education  just  as  though  he  had 
been  given  me  to  bring  up  from  infancy.'  ^ 

'  The  Education  of  an  Orator '  would  thus  be  the 
most  accurate  translation  of  Quintilian's  title. ^  But 
what  did  Quintilian  mean  by  an  orator  ?  Here  again 
the  answer  can  be  given  in  his  own  words  : 

'  The  orator  whom  we  are  educating  is  the  perfect  orator,  who 
can  only  be  a  good  man  :  and  therefore  we  demand  of  him,  not 
merely  an  excellent  power  of  speech,  but  all  the  moral  virtues 
as  well.  Nor  am  I  prepared  to  admit  (as  some  have  held)  that 
the  science  of  a  righteous  and  honourable  life  should  be  left  to  the 
philosophers  :  for  the  man  who  is  a  true  citizen,  fit  for  the 
administration  of  private  and  public  business,  and  capable  of 
guiding  cities  by  his  counsels,  establishing  them  by  his  laws  and 
reforming  them  by  his  judgements,  is  none  other  than  the  orator.'  ^ 

There  is  no  need  to  ask  where  Quintilian  got  this 
ideal  of  the  '  perfect  orator '.  Every  page  of  the 
Institutio  oratoria  is  reminiscent  of  Cicero's  teaching, 
but  here  the  borrowing  is  more  than  usually  evident. 
Quintihan  has  gone  back  to  the  de  Oratore  for  his 
definition,  and  the  '  perfect  orator  '  whose  education 
he  describes  is  none  other  than  the  doctus  orator  of 
Cicero's  dialogue.*  Nor  does  Quintilian  make  any 
attempt  to  conceal  his  indebtedness.  The  de  Oratore 
is  expressly  quoted  a  few  lines  further  on,^  and  the 

^  Quint,  i,  prooem.  4-5. 

2  Borner,  p.  17,  who  analyses  Quintilian's  use  of  the  words 
instituere  and  institutio. 

^  Quint,  i,  prooem.  9-10.  ■*  See  above,  p.  112, 

^  Quint,  i,  prooem.  13. 


QUINTILIAN  187 

Ciceronian  character  of  his  teaching  is  never  for 
a  moment  in  doubt.  His  list  of  the  authors,  Greek 
and  Latin,  who  had  written  before  him  on  the  art  of 
rhetoric,  contains  the  following  noteworthy  sentence  : 

*  M.  Tullius,  our  one  incomparable  model  of  oratory  and 
oratorical  theory,  has  shed  most  light  on  the  rules  of  eloquence 
as  well  as  on  eloquence  itself.  Modesty  would  keep  me  silent 
after  his  work,  did  he  not  himself  say  that  he  had  let  fall  his 
text-book  of  rhetoric  [the  de  Inventione]  as  a  mere  boy  ;  more- 
over, he  has  deliberately  omitted  those  less  important  subjects 
which  are  usually  missing  in  our  text-books.'  ^ 

Quintilian's  ideal  is  thus  a  conscious  return  to  the 
teaching  of  the  de  Oratore  and  the  Orator ;  and  the 
title  Institutio  oratoria  implies  a  challenge  to  con- 
temporary thought.  For  the  words  '  orator  '  and 
'  oratory  '  had  shifted  their  meaning  since  the  days 
of  Cicero,  and  Quintilian's  contemporaries  were  aware 
of  the  fact.  Tacitus,  for  example,  notes  the  change 
in  his  Dialogue  on  Orators ;  '  Our  generation  is 
barren  of  orators.  We  have  lost  the  glory  of  elo- 
quence and  we  have  barely  kept  the  name  of  orator. 
For  we  use  the  word  only  when  speaking  of  the 
ancients :  our  modern  speakers  we  call  pleaders 
(causidici)  or  advocates  {advocati)  or  barristers 
{patroni)  or  anything  but  orators.'  -  Quintilian  him- 
self recognizes  this  distinction  between  orator  and 
causidicus  ;  for  in  his  tweKth  book  he  contrasts  his 
own  ideal  of  oratory  with  the  '  hired  eloquence '  of 
a  mere  pleader — '  a  causidicus,  to  use  the  vulgar 
phrase  '.^    And  a  similar  distinction  is  to  be  noted 

1  ibid.  iii.  1,  20  ;  there  is  a  similar  acknowledgement  in  ix.  4,  1. 

2  Tac.  Dial.  1.  3  Q^^t.  xii.  1,  25. 


188  QUINTILIAN 

between  his  use  of  the  words  rJietoricus  and  oratorius. 
Cicero's  great  dialogues  on  oratory — the  de  Orator e. 
Orator,  and  Brutus — are  described  as  Ubri  oratorii  ; 
but  the  two  books  of  the  de  Inventione,  a  mere 
text-book  of  rhetoric,  are  called  lihri  rhetorici} 

In  the  light  of  these  facts  it  is  interesting  to  note 
how  frequently  Quintilian  uses  the  word  orator  and 
its  cognate  forms  in  the  opening  pages  of  his  Institutio. 
His  pupils,  he  says,  had  asked  him  to  write  a  treatise 
on  rhetoric  ;  and  their  suggestion  is  described  in  a 
conventional  phrase  [id  aliquid  de  ratione  dicendi 
componerem).^  But  once  Quintilian  begins  to  speak 
of  his  own  purpose  his  language  alters.  Ars  orandi, 
ars  orator ia,  orator,  orator  perfectus  :  the  very  words 
have  a  stately  sound,  and  the  frequency  with  which 
they  recur  ^  shows  that  Quintilian  is  consciously 
recalling  Ciceronian  memories.  To  his  readers  the 
whole  preface  must  have  sounded  like  a  direct 
challenge.  Political  oratory  was  dead,  and  every  one 
in  Rome  knew  that  it  was  dead  ;  but  Quintilian 
deliberately  chooses  the  oratory  of  a  past  generation 
as  his  educational  ideal. 

The  whole  structm-e  of  Quintihan's  work  illustrates 
the  significance  of  its  title.  Of  the  twelve  books  into 
which  it  is  divided,  only  nine,  so  Quintilian  tells  us 
himself,*  would  usually  be  included  in  a  text-book 
of  rhetoric.  Book  I  deals  with  the  education  of  a  boy 
before  he  begins  the  study  of  rhetoric.  Book  II  gives 
general  advice  about  the  studies  which  are  proper  to 

^  Quint,  iii.  1,  20.  ^  ibid,  i,  prooem.  1. 

^  ibid,  i,  prooem.  4-6,  9-10.  ^  ibid.  ii.  11,  1  ;  iii.  1,  1. 


QUINTILIAN  189 

the  school  of  rhetoric,  and  discusses  the  nature  of 
rhetoric  as  a  science.  The  theory  of  rhetoric  proper 
begins  only  in  Book  III,  and  is  continued — with 
a  famous  digression  in  Book  X — to  the  end  of 
Book  XI.  Book  XII  gives  advice  to  the  orator  who 
has  left  school,  and  wishes  to  carry  his  art  to  perfec- 
tion in  the  ordinary  work  of  his  profession  ;  and 
Quintilian  inserts  here  his  theory  of  the  higher 
studies  which  should  be  made  after  leaving  the  school 
of  rhetoric.  This  division  of  his  subject-matter 
implies  a  contrast  with  the  de  Oratore  as  well  as  with 
the  contemporary  text-books  of  rhetoric.  In  Cicero's 
phraseology,  only  portions  of  Books  X  and  XII  deal 
with  the  poUtior  humanitas.  By  far  the  largest  part 
of  Quintilian's  work  is  concerned  with  the  ordinary 
puerilis  institutio  ;  and  this  difference  of  proportion 
is  significant.  Cicero  was  a  man  of  the  world  and 
a  great  orator,  writing  for  men  of  his  own  kind. 
Quintilian  was  a  successful  and  experienced  school- 
master, accustomed  to  think  in  terms  of  the  class- 
room :  that  is  why  he  gives  us  our  best  insight  into 
the  practical  work  of  Graeco-Roman  education. 

§  2.     Preliminary  Studies. 

True  to  his  promise,  Quintilian  begins  his  theory  of 
education  with  the  child's  first  lessons  ;  and  it  is 
plain  from  the  outset  that  he  is  writing  for  the 
children  of  the  rich.  Not  a  word  is  said  about  the 
elementary  schoolmaster  [liidi  magister)  and  his 
classes.  The  children  who  came  to  Quintihan's 
school  had  got  their  first  lessons  at  home,  and  his 


190  QUINTILIAN 

advice  concerns  the  choice  of  a  nurse,  the  need  of 
proper  companions  for  the  boy,  and  the  duties  of  the 
paedagogus  (who  was  a  sort  of  companion  and  mentor, 
frequently  also  a  tutor).  The  main  point  is  that  they 
should  be  honest,  reliable  folk,  with  good  accents  ;  ^ 
the  paedagogus  is  not  to  be  allowed  to  teach  the  child 
unless  he  is  unusually  well  educated.-  Lessons  are 
to  begin  as  soon  as  the  child  can  speak,  and  here 
Chrysippus  is  quoted  as  against  Eratosthenes.^  But 
the  language  in  v/hich  the  child  speaks  raises  a 
difficulty  :  is  it  to  be  Greek  or  Latin  ?  QuintiUan 
admits  that  the  child  is  bound  to  pick  up  Latin 
from  those  around  him,  but  he  wants  the  first  lessons 
to  be  given  in  Greek  :  '  partly  because  he  will  be 
soaked  in  Latin  whether  we  like  it  or  not,  partly 
because  at  school  he  will  have  to  begin  with  Greek  ; 
for  our  whole  educational  system  is  derived  from 
Greek.'  *  These  first  Greek  lessons  are  not  to  be 
pushed  too  far :  correct  Latin  is  the  primary 
requirement,  and  it  would  be  easy  to  spoil  the  child's 
accent  and  grammar.  The  rest  of  the  chapter  gives 
minute  instructions  as  to  the  best  way  of  teaching 
the  alphabet  and  giving  the  first  lessons  in  reading 
and  writing,  with  some  very  sensible  remarks  as  to 
the  value  of  good  handwriting.^  Quintilian's  practical 
sense  shows  itself  again  at  the  end  of  the  chapter. 
Memory-lessons  are  to  be  given,  but  the  matter  to  be 
memorized  should  be  carefully  chosen.  Good  pro- 
verbs and  counsels  of  great  men  should  be  learnt  by 
1  Quint,  i.  1,  4,  7-8.  ^  ^5^^,  g,  3  ^^^-^^  i5_i9, 

*  ibid.  12  ;  see  Colson's  note.  ^  Quint,  i.  1,  28. 


QUINTILIAN  191 

heart,  as  well  as  pieces  that  will  increase  the  child's 
vocabulary.^  And  it  is  no  harm  to  make  children 
learn  sentences  by  heart  that  are  difficult  to  pro- 
nounce quickly  :  later  in  life  they  may  easily  form 
habits  of  careless  or  faulty  pronunciation,  which 
might  have  been  cured  by  this  simple  means. - 

One  or  two  of  the  details  mentioned  by  Quintilian 
show  plainly  that  he  is  writing  for  the  well-to-do  : 
the  child's  toy-alphabet,  for  example,  is  made  of 
ivory,^  and  his  suggestion  that  the  lessons  should  be 
helped  out  by  prizes  reminds  us  of  Verrius  Flaccus, 
who  made  his  school  of  literature  fashionable  by 
a  similar  system.*  But  the  next  chapter  raises  a 
question  which  could  only  be  asked  by  a  rich  parent. 
Is  it  better  for  a  boy  to  be  sent  to  school  or  to  be 
taught  by  a  private  tutor  at  home  ?  Quintilian  claims 
all  the  weight  of  authority  for  his  own  opinion  that  a 
boy  should  always  be  sent  to  school.^  His  reasons  are 
mainly  from  the  teacher's  point  of  view  :  it  is  easier 
to  be  interested  in  a  large  class  than  in  private 
tuition  ;  most  subjects  can  be  taught  as  well  to  large 
numbers  in  a  class-room  as  to  a  single  boy  ;  and 
competition  is  the  life  of  a  school.  On  this  last  point 
he  has  an  interesting  personal  reminiscence.  His 
own  schoolmasters,  whom  he  leaves  unnamed,  used 
to  arrange  the  boys  in  class  according  to  merit. 
Regular  competitions  were  held  for  the  privilege  of 
declaiming  first  in  public  :    the  privilege  lasted  a 

1  ibid.  35-6.  2  if^i^i  37  3  ^i,i^  £6. 

^  ibid.  20  ;  Suet.  Gram.  17. 
6  Quint,  i.  2,  2. 


192  QUINTILIAN 

month,    when    the    competition    was    renewed — a 
device. which  QuintiUan  commends/ 

One  of  the  arguments  urged  by  QuintiUan  as  an 
objection  against  school  education  is  of  special 
interest.  What  about  the  boy's  morals  ?  Will  he 
not  be  safer  at  home  ?  Quintilian  meets  the  objec- 
tion by  a  somev/hat  rhetorical  attack  on  parents  who 
spoil  their  children  at  home,  and  on  the  dangers  of 
companionship  with  the  slaves  of  the  household.^ 
His  complaints  are  borne  out  by  other  writers  of  the 
period :  Petronius,  the  elder  Pliny,  Seneca,  and 
Tacitus.'^  But  the  really  significant  fact  is  that 
Quintilian,  speaking  from  experience,  freely  admits 
the  dangers  of  school-hfe.  There  is,  of  course,  the 
danger  of  loose  conversation  with  one's  school- 
fellows,* but  QuintiUan  is  thinking  of  a  graver  evil. 
What  if  the  master  himself  should  be  the  cause  of 
trouble  ?  Quintilian  was  most  probably  the  pupil  of 
Remmius  Palaemon :  in  any  case  he  must  have 
known  all  the  scandal  connected  with  Palaemon's 
name,  and  he  may  well  have  been  thinking  of 
Palaemon  when  he  insists  on  the  need  of  care  in 
choosing  a  trustworthy  teacher  :  especially  in  the 
later  stages  of  a  boy's  schooling.^ 

All  these  early  chapters  of  the  Institutio  make  very 
interesting  reading.  Quintilian  discusses,  for  example, 
the  age  at  which  a  child  should  be  sent  to  school. 

1  Quint,  i.  2,  23-5  ;  see  Colson's  note.  ^  ij^i^  q_^ 

3  Petron.  Sat.  4  ;  Pliny,  N.  H.  xxxiii.  26-7  ;  Sen.  Epp.  60,  1  ; 
94,  54  ;   115,  11  ;  Tac.  Dial.  28-9. 
«  Quint,  i.  2,  4.  ^  ^^^  i.  2,  5  ;  3,  17  ;  ii.  2,  1-4,  15. 


QUINTILIAN  193 

Seven  was  evidently  the  usual  age  for  beginning 
lessons  ;  but  Quintilian  agrees  with  Chrysippus  that 
lessons  had  better  begin  much  earlier,  with  the  nurse 
as  teacher.^  His  own  phrase  for  describing  the  age 
at  which  he  would  have  a  boy  go  to  school  is  vague  : 
'  when  he  begins  to  grow  up  and  leave  the  nursery, 
and  can  do  serious  study '.^  Any  lessons  that  may 
have  been  given  before  that  age  should  be  made  as 
attractive  as  possible :  the  child  is  not  yet  old 
enough  to  enjoy  stud}^  but  at  least  he  should  not 
learn  to  hate  it.^  Similarly  Quintilian  has  a  good 
word  for  games  and  does  not  want  to  see  children 
overworked.*  His  condemnation  of  corporal  punish- 
ment is  well  known :  here  again  Chrysippus  is 
quoted,  this  time  in  disagreement.^ 

Quintilian' s  system  requires  that  the  various 
subjects  of  the  iyKVKXios  TratSeta  should  be  studied 
concurrently,  not  one  after  the  other.  Mathematics 
and  music  are  to  be  learnt  whilst  the  boy  is  still 
attending  the  school  of  literature  ;  ^  and  the  first 
lessons  in  rhetoric  may  be  taken  before  he  has  finally 
left  the  grammaticus  for  the  rhetor  J  Quintilian  is 
here  trying  to  conciliate  public  opinion,  which  was 
apt  to  give  the  gramynaticus  a  larger  share  in  the 
boy's  education  than  Quintilian  thought  proper. 
The  fault  lay  mainly  with  the  teachers  of  rhetoric. 
Declamation  had  come  to  play  so  large  a  part  in  the 

1  ibid.  i.  1,  15-17. 

2  ibid.  i.  2,  1.  His  own  son,  who  died  at  the  age  of  ten,  had 
studied  both  Greek  and  Latin  literature  (vi,  prooem.  9-11). 

3  ibid.  i.  1,  20.  4  ibid.  1.  3,  8-13.  ^  if^ij  j  3^  i3_i7 
«  ibid.  i.  10,  1  ;   12,  1-7.                              '  ibid.  ii.  1,  13. 

3029  Tj   U 


194  QUINTILIAN 

course  of  rhetoric  that  a  fashionable  rhetor  seldom 
condescended  to  teach  the  preparatory  exercises  in 
rhetorical  composition.^  This  neglect  led  to  two 
abuses.  Either  the  gramynaticus  took  upon  himself 
work  which  properly  belonged  to  a  rhetor,  thus 
keeping  his  boys  for  an  additional  year  or  two  ;  or 
the  first  classes  in  rhetoric  were  given  by  some 
second-rate  master  whose  qualifications  did  not 
permit  him  to  teach  the  more  advanced  stages  of  the 
course.^  Quintilian  condemns  both  practices.  '  It 
is  absurd  ',  he  says,  '  to  keep  a  boy  from  the  school 
of  declamation  until  he  is  able  to  declaim.'  Let  each 
profession  respect  its  neighbour's  limits.  Some  few 
grammatici  are,  of  course,  quite  competent  to  teach 
rhetoric,  but  this  is  not  their  proper  work.^  Suetonius 
quotes  an  extreme  example.  When  he  was  a  boy, 
a  certain  Princeps  used  to  teach  literature  and 
rhetoric  on  alternate  days — sometimes  even  litera- 
ture in  the  morning,  rhetoric  in  the  afternoon.* 
Quintilian  would  have  condemned  such  presumption  : 
less  so,  however,  than  the  vanity  which  led  many 
rhetores  to  neglect  the  elementary  part  of  their  course. 
'  A  man  is  no  teacher  ',  he  says,  '  if  he  is  unwilling  to 
take  the  lower  classes  '  ;  and  he  goes  on  to  argue  that 
the  more  a  man  knows  about  his  subject,  the  better 
his  qualifications  for  taking  a  class  of  beginners.^ 

Here,  as  elsewhere,  Quintilian  is  speaking  from 
personal  experience  ;  for  in  the  following  chapter, 
which  describes  in  detail  these  preHminary  exercises, 

1  Quint,  ii.  1,  1-3.  -  ibid.  ii.  3,  1. 

3  ibid.  ii.  1,  3-6.  *  Suet.  Gram.  4.  ^  Quint,  ii.  3,  5. 


QUINTILIAN  195 

he  illustrates  them  by  examples  taken  from  his  own 
class-work.^  And  this  fact  explains  an  apparent 
confusion  in  the  Institutio  oratoria  as  to  the  age  at 
which  boys  attended  the  schools  of  rhetoric.  Three 
terms  are  used  by  Quintilian  to  describe  his  pupils  : 
pueriy  adulescentes,  and  iuvenes.  luvenis  is  perhaps 
the  commonest  of  the  three,  and  Quintilian  says  more 
than  once  that  he  is  writing  the  Institutio  oratoria 
for  the  benefit  of  iuvenes.^  But  adulescens  is  also 
common  ; "  and  there  is  a  special  warning  in  the 
second  book  against  the  danger  of  letting  pz^en  sit 
beside  adulescentes  in  class.*  The  same  chapter 
contains  a  passage  in  which  the  custom  of  applauding 
a  fellow-pupil  is  more  strictly  forbidden  iorpueri  than 
for  iuvenes.^  Similarly  Quintilian  tells  us  that  he 
gave  up  his  reading-classes  because  older  students 
(iuvenes)  were  beginning  to  waste  time  over  an 
exercise  which  was  meant  only  for  the  young  ;  ^  and 
2)uer  is  the  word  regularly  used  in  the  chapter  which 
deals  with  the  preliminary  exercises  in  rhetoric.'' 

What  ages  do  these  various  terms  denote  ? 
Quintilian' s  chapter  on  the  proper  age  for  beginning 
the  study  of  rhetoric  does  not  help  us  much,  for  he 
contents  himself  with  the  general  advice  :  '  as  soon 
as  the  boy  is  able  for  it  '.^  A  more  definite  statement 
is  contained  in  the  following  chapter,  where  we  are 
told  that  the  boys  (pueri)  who  enter  a  school  of 

1  ibid.  ii.  4,  5-7,  13-14. 

^  ibid,  i,  prooem.  1  ;  iii.  6,  64  ;  vi,  prooem.  1  ;  xii.  11,  31. 

3  ibid.  V.  12,  22  ;  vii.  3,  30  ;  xii.  11,  13. 

*  ibid.  ii.  2,  14.       ^  ibid.  ii.  2,  9.      «  ibid.  ii.  5,  1-2. 

'  ibid.  ii.  4,  1-17  ;  sec  also  x.  5,  1.        «  /^/^^  jj  j^  7^ 


196  QUINTILIAN 

rhetoric  are  usually  in  the  '  years  of  adolescence  ' 
{adulti  fere),  and  that  they  often  stay  on  as  pupils 
when  they  are  grown  men  [iuvenes  facii)}  Allowing 
for  southern  standards,  this  probably  means  any- 
thing between  the  ages  of  fourteen  and  nineteen  :  so 
that  Quintilian's  experience  was  mainly  of  the  older 
type  of  school-boy.  But  his  words  of  encouragement 
for  pueri  who  are  unused  to  criticism  and  easily 
frightened  by  harsh  correction,  show  that  he  had 
himself  learnt  from  personal  experience  the  value  of 
kindness  when  dealing  with  younger  boys."  Such 
jpueri  were  presumably  taught  in  a  separate  class,  for 
the  exercises  which  Quintilian  prescribes  for  them 
are  distinct  from  the  more  advanced  forms  of 
rhetorical  composition.  The  warning  that  _2'>?<eri 
should  not  sit  beside  adulesceiites  refers  most  probabl}^ 
to  older  and  younger  members  of  the  same  class,  not 
to  special  occasions  when  the  whole  school  was 
brought  together  for  a  public  declamation.^ 

Apart  from  these  practical  details  of  school  work 
Quintilian's  account  of  the  ey/cu/cXto?  TratSeia  is  on 
conventional  lines.  Music  and  geometry  are  to  be 
studied  dm-ing  the  course  of  literature,  but  Quintilian 
treats  both  as  subordinate  to  the  study  of  literature 
and  rhetoric*  In  the  chapter  on  grammar,  for 
example,  we  are  told  that  a  good  grammaticus  must 
have  studied  music  :    otherwise  he  will  not  be  able 

1  Quint,  ii.  2,  3  ;  see  also  x.  5.  14  ;  xii.  11,  13. 

2  ibid.  ii.  4,  8. 

3  ibid.  ii.  2,  9-10  ;  x.  5,  21  (^vliere  the  classes  are  mentioned  as 
separate).  *  ibid.  i.  10,  1  ;   12,  1-19. 


QUINTILIAN  197 

to  explain  the  metres  of  his  authors.^  And  in  the 
chapter  specially  devoted  to  music  at  the  end  of  the 
first  book,  after  some  generalities  borrowed  from 
Greek  educational  theorists — with  quotations  from 
Pythagoras,  Lycurgus,  Plato,  Archytas,  and  Aristo- 
xenus  - — Quintilian  comes  to  the  practical  question  ; 
how  will  music  benefit  the  orator  ?  The  answer  is 
severely  practical :  it  will  teach  him  to  control  and 
modulate  his  voice,  and  make  harmonious  gestures.^ 
Similarly,  geometry  is  to  be  studied  jiartly  for  the 
excellent  mental  training  that  it  gives,  partly  for  its 
practical  utility  when  the  orator  has  to  speak  of  such 
subjects  as  land-measurement  or  more  intricate 
mathematical  problems  :  it  would  never  do  for  him 
to  hesitate  in  public  over  his  figures.*  But  neither 
music  nor  geometry  is  to  be  studied  Avith  a  specialist's 
care ;  ^  and  the  same  principle  is  applied  to  the 
lessons  in  elocution  which  Quintilian  expects  the  boy 
to  get  from  some  professional  actor.  ^ 

Quintilian' s  main  interest  is,  of  course,  in  the 
schools  of  literature  and  rhetoric,  Greek  and  Latin. 
The  boy  should  go  first  to  the  Greek  gratnmaticus ;  ' 
but  both  literatures  are  taught  concurrently,  and  in 
the  same  way.  There  are  lessons  in  the  spoken 
language  {recte  loquendi  scientia),  which  include 
dictation  and  composition  as  well  as  grammar,  and 
lessons  in  the  literature  of  both  languages  {])oetarum 

1  ibid.  i.  4,  4  ;  10,  28-9.  2  -^^-^  j   jq  9_21. 

3  ibid.  i.  10,  22-30  ;  see  also  xi.  3,  14-65. 
^  ibid.  i.  10,  34-49.  ^  ibid.  i.  12,  14. 

«  ibid.  i.  11,  1-14  ;  xi.  3,  88-91,  181.  '  ibid.  i.  4,  1. 


198  QUINTILIAN 

enarratio)}  A  more  detailed  definition  of  the  work 
done  by  the  grammaticus  is  given  casually  in  an 
earlier  chapter :  he  teaches  his  pupil  how  to  speak 
correctly,  explains  grammatical  difficulties  in  the 
authors  read,  interprets  historical  allusions  and  com- 
ments on  his  author.^  Quintilian's  enthusiasm  for 
the  study  of  grammar  is  well  known,''  and  was 
probably  due  to  the  influence  of  Remmius  Palaemon. 
His  chapter  on  the  authors  to  be  read  at  school  is 
shorter,  probably  in  view  of  the  later  digression  on 
the  same  subject  which  fills  half  of  the  tenth  book. 
Homer  and  Virgil  are  in  a  class  by  themselves  ;  but 
the  tragedians,  comedians,  and  Xyrio,  poets  are  all 
mentioned  as  suitable  school-texts.*  Quintilian  is, 
of  course,  severely  classical  in  his  tastes,  but 
docs  not  exclude  the  older  Latin  poets  from  his 
list,  probably  out  of  respect  for  Cicero's  known 
preferences.'  Elsewhere,  however,  he  is  hard  on  the 
early  Latin  prose- writers.^  And  his  moral  standards 
are  no  less  exacting.  Menander  can  be  read  safely  by 
boys,  but  the  other  comedians  are  mentioned  with 
reserve :  even  Horace  should  not  be  read  in  class 
unexpurgated.' 

The  study  of  prose-authors  raises  once  more  the 
interesting  question  :  how  much  history  was  read  at 
school  ?  Quintilian  expects  the  grammaticus  to 
explain  such  historical  and  mythological  allusions  as 
occur  in  his  text ;  ^   but  experience  had  taught  him 

1  Quint,  i.  4,  2.     2  ^^i^   j  2,  14.      ^  ibid.  i.  4,  5-6. 
^  ibid.  i.  8,  5-7.     5  ibid.  i.  8,  8-12.     «  ibid.  ii.  5,  21-3. 
'  ibid.  i.  8,  6,  7.        8  ibid.  i.  2,  14  ;  4,  4  ;  8.  18-21. 


QUINTILIAN  199 

that  this  kmd  of  teaching  was  apt  to  end  in  a  pedantic 
display  of  erudition.     '  It  is  sufficient ',  he  says,  '  to 
explain  well-known  legends,  or  such  at  least  as  are 
told  by  the  standard  authors  '  ;    and  he  ends  with 
the  sensible  remark  that  '  a  good  teacher  will  not 
know  everything  '.^     Plainly  the  fact  that  prose- 
authors  were  not  read  as  school-texts  left  something 
to  be  desired,  and  Quintilian  was  conscious  of  this 
lacuna  in  the  '  encyclic  '  programme.    In  his  second 
book  he  tells  us  of  an  experiment  which  he  had  made 
by  way  of  su]3plementing  this  part  of  the  course  in 
Greek  and  Latin  literature.  Greek  teachers  of  rhetoric 
usually  arranged  for  reading-classes  to  be  given  by  an 
assistant-master  {adiutor  or  hypodidascalus),  the  great 
masters  of  Greek  prose  being  the  texts  read.^    Quinti- 
lian approves  of  this  system,  but  suggests  an  improve- 
ment. Such  lessons  should  not  be  mere  reading-classes, 
but  should  be  used  as  an  extension  of  the  earlier  classes 
in  poetic  literature.    The  boys  should  be  made  read 
aloud  in  turn  and  the  rhetor  himself — not  an  assistant- 
master — should  be  there  to  interrupt,  correct,  point 
out  the  good  or  bad  points  in  the  author's  style,  and 
ask  the  pupils  for  their  own  opinion.^    Organized  on 
these  lines  the  class  could  easily  be  got  to  read  and 
criticize  specimens  of  the  best  orators  and  historians 
in  Greek  and  Latin :    Cicero  and  Livy  are  named  as 
the  authors  most  suitable  for  the  purpose.'*    Quinti- 
lian himself  had  tried  the  experiment  in  his  school, 
but  had  found  that  custom  was  against  him,  and  that 
1  ibid.  i.  8,  18,  21.  ^  ^-^^-^  ^j  5  3  .  q^^  ^^  p^^^  j^   18^  4 

3  ibid.  ii.  5,  1-17.  4  ibid.  ii.  5,  18-19. 


200  QUINTILIAN 

the  wrong  kind  of  pupil  was  showing  interest  in  the 
work.  For  these  reasons  he  had  abandoned  the 
system,  but  leaves  the  experiment  on  record  for  the 
benefit  of  future  teachers/ 

§  3.     Rhetoric  :  the  ''  Declamationes  '. 

The  transition  from  literature  to  rhetoric  was 
marked  by  a  series  of  preparatory  exercises  in  com- 
position, which  Quintilian  describes  in  some  detail. 
The  Greek  term  for  all  these  exercises  was  progymnas- 
7nata,  and  text-books  for  this  portion  of  the  cyKVKkLo^ 
TTtttSeta  still  survive  :  notably  the  Progymnasmata 
of  Theon.  Quintilian  assigns  some  of  these  exercises 
to  the  grammatictis,  others  to  the  rhetor."  Even  quite 
young  boys  could  easil}^  do  the  earliest  and  simplest. 
One  of  Aesop's  fables  was  read  aloud,  and  the  boy 
was  then  asked  to  tell  the  story  himself  in  simple, 
correct  language."  Later  he  was  made  write  the 
story  down  in  the  same  simple  style  ;  and  another 
favourite  exercise  was  the  free  paraphrase  in  prose 
of  a  passage  taken  from  some  poet  read  in  class.* 
Greek  teachers  passed  directly  from  these  simpler 
forms  of  composition  to  the  narratio,  taking  their 
subject-matter  either  from  poetry  or  history.^  Quinti- 
lian reserves  the  narratio  for  a  later  stage,  and  passes 
from  the  fable  and  paraphrase  to  the  sententia  and 
chria.  These  were  short  compositions  on  some 
proverb  or  saying  of  a  great  man,  the  sententia  being 
impersonal,  the  chria  connected  with  some  historical 

1  Quint,  ii.  5,  2.  ~  ibid.  i.  9,  1-6  ;  ii.  4,  1-40. 

3  ibid.  i.  9  2.  ^  ibid.  =  Colson  on  Quint,  i.  9,  6. 


QUINTILIAN  201 

personality.^  Sunt  lacrimae  rerum  is  an  obvious 
example.  A  chria  on  this  verse  would  begin  by 
paraphrasing  the  meaning,  then  give  the  reasons  for 
and  against,  illustrate  the  verse  from  its  context  in 
the  Aeneid  and  from  other  historical  examples, 
confirm  it  by  quotations  from  the  poets,  and  end  with 
a  formal  epilogue. 

Quintilian  assigns  all  these  progymnasmata  to  the 
grammaticus :  those  which  he  enumerates  in  the 
second  book  belong  properly  to  the  rhetor,  though  in 
practice  they  were  often  taught  by  the  grammaticus. 
For  Quintilian  complains  that,  in  the  Latin  schools 
at  least,  teachers  of  rhetoric  had  allowed  the  gram- 
matici  to  usurp  this  part  of  their  course.^  The 
question  is  of  some  importance  as  these  later  exercises 
include  practice  in  historical  composition.  Quinti- 
lian, who  read  the  historians  in  class  with  his  pupils, 
places  historical  narratio  first  on  the  list  of  pro- 
gymnasmata  reserved  for  the  teacher  of  rhetoric.^ 
His  purpose,  it  should  be  noted,  is  not  primarily  to 
impart  knowledge  of  historj^ ;  and  his  suggestions 
deal  mainly  with  questions  of  style.  But  historical 
compositions  can  easily  be  made  to  follow  a  definite 
plan  of  reading,  and  Quintilian  does  not  need  to  be 
told  that  exercises  in  style  are  doubly  useful  when 
connected  with  the  authors  read  in  class.''  Indeed 
some  of^the  subjects  which  he  suggests  for  exercises 
akin  to  narratio  are  taken  straight  from  Livy.^ 

^  ibid.  i.  9,  3  with  Colson's  valuable  notes. 
2  ibid.  i.  9,  6  ;  ii.  1,  1-2.  ^  ^^  jj  ^  i_3^  \5-\^. 

«  ibid.  i.  9,  3  ;  ii.  5,  14-17.  ^  ibid.  ii.  4,  18,  19. 

3029  c  c 


202  QUINTILIAN 

A  natural  sequel  to  these  narrationes  were  com- 
positions in  praise  of  great  men  or  in  condemnation 
of  the  wicked,  and  formaJ  comparisons  between  two 
or  more  famous  personages  :  an  exercise  which  gave 
Plutarch  the  idea  for  his  Parallel  Lives}  These 
exercises  border  on  what  was  technically  considered 
rhetoric,  and  Quintilian  follows  them  up  with  loci 
communes  and  theses  ;  the  former  being  essays  on 
this  or  that  type  of  character,  the  latter  more 
abstract  themes  such  as  '  Country-life  and  ToAvn- 
life  ',  or  a  comparison  between  the  work  of  a  lawyer 
and  a  soldier.^  Lastly  he  names  a  type  of  composition 
even  more  directly  useful  to  the  orator  :  set  passages 
{loci)  on  the  value  of  evidence,  the  justice  or  injustice 
of  laws,  their  opportuneness  and  so  forth. ^  The 
student  who  has  mastered  this  type  of  composition 
is  ready  for  either  suasoriae  or  controversiae} 

This  well-ordered  sequence  of  progymnasynata  gives 
a  fair  idea  of  ancient  rhetoric  at  its  best.  Whatever 
its  faults,  Greek  rhetoric  as  it  had  been  elaborated  by 
Aristotle,  Hermagoras  and  their  successors  was  a 
carefully  planned,  logical  system  of  education  ;  and 
its  minutest  details  had  been  thought  out  by  teachers 
who  formed  their  theories  for  themselves  in  the 
class-room.  No  attempt  can  be  made  here  to 
describe  the  system  as  a  whole  :  there  is  no  short 
cut  through  it  and  Quintilian  is  still  the  best  author 
on  the  subject.  Indeed,  the  main  portion  of  the 
Institutio  oratoria  was   planned  by  Quintilian  as  a 

1  Quint,  ii.  4,  20-1.  ^  ^-^i^  ^  4^  22-5  ;  x.  5,  11-13. 

3  ibid.  ii.  4,  27-40.  "  ibid.  ii.  4,  33. 


QUINTILIAN  203 

sort  of  encyclopedia  of  ancient  rhetoric.  In  his 
prefatory  letter  to  Trypho  he  explains  that  the  book 
had  taken  him  two  years  to  Avrite  :  not  because  he 
found  writing  difficult,  but  because  he  had  to 
'  examine  an  almost  endless  subject  and  read 
innumerable  authorities  '.^  A  long  list  of  these 
'  authorities  '  is  to  be  found  at  the  beginning  of 
the  third  book:  it  begins  with  Empedocles,  and 
ends  with  the  elder  PHny  and  his  contemporaries.^ 
Modern  research  has  taught  us  to  be  cautious  in 
accepting  such  literary  catalogues  as  proof  that  the 
compiler  of  the  catalogue  has  read  all  the  authors 
named ;  and  Quintilian's  list  is  plainly  inserted 
eruditionis  causa.  Some  of  the  earlier  names  are 
admittedly  given  at  second-hand,  and  there  are  good 
reasons  for  believing  that  Quintilian  owed  his  know- 
ledge even  of  Aristotle's  Rhetoric  to  quotations  which 
he  had  found  in  later  Greek  writers  :  Aristotle  was 
for  centuries  little  more  than  a  name  to  educated 
Greeks  and  Romans.^  But  Aristotle  had  many 
successors  :  Theophrastus,  Hermagoras,  Apollonius, 
Caecilius,  Dionysius,  ApoUodorus,  and  Theodorus,  to 
name  only  the  most  famous — and  Quintilian  is  here 
on  ground  that  he  knows  well.  His  theory  of  rhetoric 
is  indeed  no  more  than  an  intelligent  compilation 
from  the  writings  of  these  Greek  theorists,  and  he 
himself  apologizes  for  his  lack  of  originaUty.'*  His 
aim  was  rather  to  give  his  readers  a  sound  profes- 
sional judgement  where,  as  usually  happened,  the 

^  ibid,  praef.  ad  Try  ph.  1.  ^  ibid.  iii.  1,  8-21. 

^  Angermann,  pp.  28  foil.  *  Quint,  iii.  1,  5. 


204  QUINTILIAN 

'  authorities '  disagreed  among  themselves :  common 

sense,    painstaking    accuracy    in   the   statement   of 

received  opinions  and  remarkable  clearness  in  the 

exposition  of  his  own  views  are  perhaps  the  chief 

merits  of  his  work  : 

*  I  shall  not  be  afraid  ',  he  says  himself,  '  to  give  my  oavii 
opinion  whe^j  needed,  though  so  many  have  written  well  on  this 
subject.  Nor  have  I  slavishly  followed  the  teaching  of  any  one 
school,  but  have  left  my  readers  free  to  choose  what  view  they 
think  best,  my  task  being  rather  to  gather  into  a  single  volume 
the  results  of  many  workers.  Where  there  was  no  room  left  for 
further  discovery,  I  have  been  content  Avith  the  reputation  of 
work  thoroughly  done.'  ^ 

Quintilian  prefaces  his  treatise  on  rhetoric  with  an 
introductory  chapter  on  the  value  of  declamation. 
So  many  loose  statements  have  been  made  about  this 
portion  of  his  educational  theory  that  his  views  are 
better  quoted  in  full. 

'  Declamation ',  he  says,  '  is  the  most  modern  of  all  our 
exercises,  and  also  by  far  the  most  useful.  For  it  contains  in 
itself  all  those  preparatory  exercises  which  I  have  described,  and 
comes  as  near  to  real  life  as  a  representation  can.  That  is  why  it 
has  become  so  popular,  and  is  now  commonly  thought  sufficient 
of  itself  to  make  an  orator ;  for  no  quality  of  sustained  oratory 
is  absent  from  this  systematic  exercise  in  speaking.  Unfortu- 
nately— thanks  to  bad  teaching — matters  have  been  let  go  so  far 
that  the  ignorance  and  extravagance  of  our  declaimers  is  now 
a  main  cause  of  our  decadent  oratory  ;  but  it  is  permissible  to 
make  good  use  of  what  is  by  nature  good.  The  subjects  set  for 
development  should,  I  hold,  be  modelled  closely  on  real  life,  and 
declamation,  which  Mas  invented  as  an  exercise  for  public 
speaking,  should  imitate  public  speaking  as  far  as  possible.'  ^ 

Like  most  of  what  Quintilian  has  written,  this  is 
plain  common  sense  ;    and  he  goes  on  to  develop 
1  Quint,  iii.  1,  22.  2  ^f^i^j  jj   ^q^  i_^ 


QUINTILlAN  205 

certain  obvious  lessons.  School-declamations  dealt 
mainly  with  fictitious  and  romantic  situations : 
witches,  oracles,  plagues,  cruel  stepmothers,  and  so 
forth  were  part  of  the  ordinary  stock-in-trade. 
Quintilian  does  not  bar  these  fictions  absolutely,  but 
he  wants  them  kept  within  reasonable  limits.  A 
certain  amount  of  romance  is  no  bad  thing  for  boys 
who  will  let  themselves  go  more  easily  when  the 
subject  is  romantic  ;  but  the  fiction  should  never 
become  ridiculous,  and  there  should  always  be  close 
contact  with  real  life.^  Quintilian  never  wearies  of 
insisting  on  this  point :  declamation  that  has  ceased 
to  be  a  training  for  the  forum  is  like  a  theatrical 
display  or  the  ravings  of  a  lunatic.  '  What  is  the 
use  ',  he  asks,  '  of  concihating  the  judge  when  there 
is  no  judge  ;  of  narrating  what  is  plainly  false  ;  of 
proving  a  case  which  will  never  come  up  for  de- 
cision ?  '  -  And  he  has  more  than  negative  criticism 
to  oft'er — though  his  suggestions  are  put  forward 
tentatively  with  the  feeling  that  custom  is  against 
him.  He  would  like,  for  example,  to  see  the  de- 
clamations made  more  concrete :  proper  names 
should  be  used,  as  had  once  been  the  rule.^  Then 
the  plots  should  be  made  more  complicated,  less 
crudely  obvious  ;  and  the  language  should  be  less 
artificial,  more  akin  to  the  speech  of  everyday  life.* 
Sententiae  are  all  very  well  and  there  is  no  lack  of 
them  in  the  Institutio  oratoria  ;  but  Quintilian  knows 
the  danger  of  abuse,  and  more  than  once  speaks  out 

1  ibid.  ii.  10,  5-6  ;  v.  12,  17-23.  ^  {f^i^  ^i  iq^  g. 

3  ibid.  ii.  10,  9  ;  Suet.  rhet.  1.  *  ibid.  ii.  10,  9  ;  viii.  3,  23. 


206  QUINTILIAN 

openly  on  the  subject.^  Nor  was  this  the  only  fault 
in  these  artificial  declamations.  A  joke  v»^ould  seem 
out  of  place  in  most  of  the  controversiae  described  by 
the  elder  Seneca,  and  jokes  are  none  too  plentiful 
in  the  Institutio  oratoria  which  is  truly  Spanish  in 
its  gravitas.  But  Quintilian  is  careful  to  remind  us 
that  no  lawyer  can  do  without  an  occasional  jest,  and 
he  has  a  special  chapter  de  BisuJ  Some  of  these 
faults  were  of  course  inherent  in  the  system  of 
school-declamation,  but  Quintilian  insists  that  good 
teaching  will  cure  most  of  them  ;  and  he  ends  his 
chapter  with  an  ingenious  comparison.  On  the  stage 
actors  avoid  the  tone  of  ordinary  conversation,  but 
their  art  consists  in  remaining  natural  whilst  adopting 
a  convention.  Similarly  declamation,  which  is 
primarily  intended  to  be  a  reproduction  of  public 
oratory,  should  imitate  real  life  without  losing  that 
'  epideictic  '  quality  which  marks  it  of!  from  ordinary 
speech.^ 

Quintilian' s  attitude  towards  declamation  can  be 
illustrated  from  every  portion  of  his  work.  In  the 
first  chapter  of  the  second  book,  for  example,  the 
teacher  of  rhetoric  is  called  magister  declamandi 
from  his  most  important  class.*  The  next  chapter 
deals  with  the  duties  of  a  teacher,  and  stress  is  laid 
on  the  need  for  authority,  tact,  patience,  and  kindness 
in  the  difficult  work  of  controlling  a  class  of  excitable 
and  sensitive  boys,  who  are  apt  to  have  their  heads 
turned  by  a  successful  declamation.^  The  need  for 
1  Quint,  ii.  4,  31  ;  viii.  5,  34.  ^  ^^^-^^  ^j   jq  9  .  ^j  3^  ^ 

3  ibid.  ii.  10,  10-13.  *  ibid.  ii.  1,  3.  ^  ibid.  ii.  2,  4-13. 


QUINTILIAN  207 

tact  and  firmness  in  correcting  faults  is  reiterated  in 
a  later  chapter  of  the  same  book  :  some  of  the  pupils 
will  not  like  it,  but  the  class  as  a  whole  will  suffer  if 
the  fault  goes  uncorrected.^  And  yet  another  chapter 
discusses  a  delicate  question  :  how  far  should  a 
teacher  let  each  pupil  develop  according  to  his  natural 
bent  ?  Quintilian  recognizes  the  value  of  natural 
aptitudes,  but  cannot  see  why  the  child's  latent 
possibilities  should  not  be  developed  as  well  as  his 
more  obvious  gifts.  If  a  boy  has  no  gift  for  oratory, 
let  him  be  sent  home  ;  but  those  who  mean  to 
prepare  for  the  forum  will  have  to  work  hard,  for 
oratory  requires  every  gift  that  a  man  has  or  can 
acquire."^ 

All  this  is  sound  psychology,  and  Quintilian' s 
practical  experience  is  plain  in  later  allusions  to  the 
same  question.  How  long  should  a  boy  be  kept  at 
the  exercise  of  declamation  ?  Quintilian  protests 
against  the  custom  of  certain  teachers  who  keep  their 
boys  for  ever  at  school :  partly  from  the  false  idea 
that  declamation  is  an  end  in  itself,  partly  from 
greed  of  larger  profits.^  His  own  advice  is  that  work 
in  the  forum  should  be  begun  as  soon  as  the  young 
man  has  sufficient  confidence  in  his  powers  to  risk 
the  venture  :  he  can  then  come  back  to  his  master 
for  advice  and  correction.^  This  will  keep  the 
school  in  contact  with  real  life,  and  Quintilian  cites 
the  example  of  Porcius  Latro  as  a  warning  to  those 

1  ibid.  ii.  6,  3-5.  2  ^-^^-^  jj  3  .   ^  o   ic)_2l. 

3  ibid.ii.  20,4;  xii.  11,  14. 

*  ibid.  xii.  6,  1-7  ;  xii.  11,  15-16. 


208  QUINTILTAN 

who  think  that  school-declamations  are  enough  of 
themselves  to  make  an  orator. ^ 

Can  we  go  further,  and  illustrate  Quintilian's 
precepts  from  his  own  example  ?  Once  at  least  in 
the  Institutio  oratoria  Quintilian  interrupts  the 
technical  exposition  of  his  theory  to  develop  in  detail 
the  plot  of  a  school-declamation.^  The  plot  itself 
is  of  some  interest  as  showing  the  type  of  confroversia 
which  Quintilian  was  accustomed  to  declaim.  '  Some 
young  men,  who  had  the  habit  of  dining  together, 
arranged  for  a  supper  on  the  sea-shore.  One  of  them 
misses  the  supper,  and  the  others  inscribe  his  name 
on  a  tomb  which  they  have  built  for  him.  His 
father,  who  has  been  travelling  overseas,  lands  on 
that  part  of  the  shore,  reads  his  son's  name  and  hangs 
himself.  The  young  men  are  accused  of  having 
caused  his  death.'  Fantastic  though  it  may  sound, 
that  is  a  typical  controversia  ;  and  Quintilian  dis- 
cusses it  quite  seriously.  There  is  first  an  analysis 
(finitio)  of  the  case  for  prosecution,  then  of  the  case 
for  defence  :  then  a  brief  development  of  the  main 
arguments  to  be  urged  on  either  side  with  due  regard 
for  the  probabilities  of  the  case.  Nobody  has  ever 
questioned  the  authenticity  of  this  passage  from  the 
Institutio  oratoria  :  yet  it  has  an  important  bearing 
on  a  question  which  has  much  vexed  modern  students 
of  Quintilian's  theory.  Did  Quintilian  write  all  or 
any  of  the  Declamationes  Avliich  have  come  down  to 
us  under  his  name  ?  A  brief  statement  of  the  main 
facts  at  issue  will  help  to  explain  the  problem,  and 

1  Quint.  X.  5, 17-21  ;  see  above,  p.  167.  ^  ^-j,-^  ^jj  3  30.4 


QUINTILIAN  209 

may  throw  further  Hght  on  the  work  done  in  the 
schools  of  Latin  rhetoric. 

Two  sets  of  declamations  ascribed  to  Quintilian 
have  survived,  each  with  its  separate  manuscript 
tradition.  One  is  complete  and  is  known  as  the 
Declamationes  maiores  :  it  consists  of  nineteen  school 
declamations,  worked  out  in  full  as  models  of  the 
genre.  Some  of  the  titles  are  suggestive  of  the  con- 
tents :  '  The  Wall  with  the  Fingermarks  '  {Paries 
palmatus),  '  The  Blind  Man  at  the  Door,'  '  A  Soldier 
of  Marius,'  '  The  Astrologer,'  and  so  forth.  As  it 
stands,  the  collection  must  have  been  put  together 
before  the  end  of  the  fourth  century  a.  d.  ;  for  the 
manuscript  tradition  can  be  traced  back  to  an  arche- 
type of  that  period,  and  there  are  numerous  quota- 
tions from  these  declamations  in  writers  of  the  fourth 
and  fifth  centuries. ^  Most  of  these  authors  quote 
the  Declamationes  as  the  work  of  Quintilian,  and 
there  are  also  quotations  from  two  other  declamations 
by  Quintilian,  not  included  in  our  collection  :  the 
Fanaticus  and  the  Caput  involutum.^  Nevertheless, 
Quintilian  is  almost  certainly  not  the  author  of  the 
Declamationes  maiores.  The  style  is  unlike  his 
careful  moderation  ;  the  themes  chosen  are  just 
those  against  which  he  warns  young  students  ;  and 
they  are  made  even  more  extravagant  by  the 
author's  taste  for  the  fantastic.  Those  who  have 
studied  the  Declamationes  maiores  in  detail  are 
agreed  that  they  belong  most  probably  to  the  second 

1  Ritter,  pp.  204  foil.  ;  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  464,  467. 
-  Lact.  Div.  inst.  i.  21  ;  v.  7. 
M2a  D  d 


210  QUINTILTAN 

century  a.  d.  Apuleius  seems  to  have  known  them  ;  ^ 
and  Trebellius  Pollio,  writing  towards  the  end  of  the 
third  century,  refers  to  declamations  by  Quintilian 
which  ranked  as  the  best  of  their  kind.^ 

So  far  there  is  Uttle  difficulty.  The  Declamationes 
maiores  were  probably  produced  in  the  Latin  schools 
of  rhetoric  some  time  after  Quintilian' s  death,  and 
were  attributed  to  the  famous  rhetor  as  a  guarantee 
of  their  excellence  :  that  seems  a  fair  hjrpothesis,  and 
most  scholars  accept  it  as  the  most  probable  explana- 
tion of  the  facts.  But  a  different  theory  is  needed  to 
explain  the  origin  of  a  second  collection  of  declama- 
tions attributed  to  Quintilian,  the  Declamationes 
minores.  To  begin  with,  more  than  half  of  this 
collection — and  that  the  first  half — is  missing  in  all 
our  manuscripts.  There  is  no  title-page,  though 
numerous  suhscriptiones  testify  to  Quintilian' s 
authorship ;  and  the  preface,  if  there  was  one,  is 
also  missing.  The  loss  is  serious,  for  the  Declamationes 
minores  certainly  need  some  kind  of  a  preface. 
Unlike  the  Declamationes  maiores  they  are  not 
worked  out  in  full ;  nor  are  they  mere  extracts  from 
complete  declamations,  like  the  elder  Seneca's 
Sententiae  et  Colores.  For  the  most  part  they  give 
no  more  than  an  outline  of  the  plan  to  be  developed, 
with  an  occasional  more  elaborate  specimen.  Some- 
times this  outline  or  specimen  is  given  without 
further  comment ;  more  frequently  the  declamatio  is 
interrupted  by  an  oral  commentary — headed  Sermo 

1  Weyman  in  Sitzber.  d.  bay.  Ak.,  ph. -hist.  Kl.  ii.  (1893),  p.  287. 
-  Trebell.  Pollio,  Vif.  Post.  jun.  4,  2. 


QUINTILIAN  211 

in  our  manuscripts — which  contains  practical  sug- 
gestions for  the  development  of  the  argument,  or 
remarks  about  the  psychology  of  the  situation  ; 
sometimes  the  sermo  comes  at  the  beginning,  and 
serves  as  a  sort  of  introduction  to  the  declamatio 
proper ;  and  there  are  some  sermones  without  any 
declamatio.  In  all,  there  are  still  extant  145  declama- 
tions, and  more  than  half  of  these  have  the  sermo  in 
one  form  or  another. 

What  are  we  to  make  of  so  curious  a  text  ?  One 
fact  is  certain  :  this  mixture  of  sermo  and  declamatio 
was  only  possible  in  a  class-room,  and  the  Declama- 
tiones  minores  are  most  easily  explained  as  the  notes 
either  of  a  master  or  a  student.  But  are  they  the 
work  of  Quintilian  or  notes  taken  in  class  by  one  of 
his  pupils  ?  The  manuscript  tradition  is  here  the 
only  external  evidence  available,  for  no  ancient 
author  quotes  from  the  Declamationes  minores  ;  and 
the  manuscript  tradition  brings  us  no  further  back 
than  the  ninth  or  tenth  century.^  On  the  other  hand, 
the  very  form  of  the  book  suggests  an  indirect 
argument  as  to  its  authorship.  Class-notes  are  not 
the  sort  of  work  most  likely  to  attract  attention.  If 
these  class-notes  were  first  published  without  Quinti- 
lian's  name,  no  later  scribe  was  likely  to  claim  them 
as  the  work  of  so  famous  an  author ;  and  if 
Quintilian' s  name  was  deliberately  forged  by  the 
author,  there  remains  a  further  difficulty.  Why  was 
he  not  careful  to  make  his  book  more  obviously  the 
sort  of  book  which  Quintilian  might  have  written  ? 
1  Rittcr,  p.  252  ;  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  464. 


212  QUINTILIAN 

For  the  Declamationes  minores  give  the  critic 
a  twofold  problem  to  solve.  On  the  one  hand, 
the  matter  of  both  sermones  and  declamationes  is 
excellent,  and  the  care  spent  on  the  arrangement  and 
analysis  of  the  plot  (divisio  and  finitio)  is  in  strict 
accordance  with  Quintilian's  principles.^  The  lan- 
guage, too,  is  correct ;  and  the  style — when  not 
disjointed  by  the  peculiar  form  of  the  text — is  very 
much  in  Quintilian's  manner.  But  no  reader  can 
resist  the  impression  that  Quintilian  would  never 
have  passed  these  notes  for  publication.  There  is 
no  attempt  at  bringing  the  material  into  any  sort  of 
systematic  order,  aiid  the  unevenness  of  the  style  is 
sometimes  inexcusable.^  The  simplest  solution  of  the 
difficulty  is  to  suppose  that  these  are  the  class-notes 
of  one  of  QuintiHan's  pupils,  published  either  without 
his  consent  during  his  lifetime  or  after  his  death. 
Quintilian  himself  complains  that  two  sets  of  class- 
notes  had  already  been  published  before  the  appear- 
ance of  the  Institutio  oratoria.^  The  earlier  had  been 
taken  down  hurriedly  during  two  days  by  some  of 
his  younger  pupils  :  a  description  which  could  not 
possibly  suit  the  Declamationes  minores,  originally 
388  in  number.  But  Quintilian's  description  of  the 
second  set,  whether  it  refers  to  our  extant  collection 
or  not,  exactly  describes  its  character.  '  The  second ', 
he  says,  '  was  taken  down  as  fully  as  possible  in 
shorthand    during    several    days,    and    was    then 

1  Quint,  ii.  6  ;  vii.  3  ;  4  ;  Ritter,  pp.  225  foil. 

2  Leo,  p.  117  (quoting  Decl  247,  268,  270,  306  as  specimens). 


Quint,  i,  prooem. 


QUINTILIAN  21S 

published  in  a  hurry  by  young  students  who 
meant  well,  but  were  over-eager  in  their  loyalty 
to  me.' 

Granted  that  the  Dedamationes  minores  may  well 
be  a  product  of  Quintilian's  class-room,  it  is  interest- 
ing to  see  what  light  they  throw  on  his  methods  of 
teaching.  One  or  two  coincidences  are  worth  noting. 
Quintilian  twice  refers  to  a  dedmnatio  on  the  following 
topic  :  '  A  man  has  three  sons  :  an  orator,  a  philoso- 
pher, and  a  doctor.  He  divides  his  property  into 
four  parts,  leaving  one  to  each  and  the  fourth  to  the 
one  wha  has  proved  himself  most  useful  to  the  state. 
The  sons  dispute  for  the  property.'  ^  This  dedamatio 
is  included  in  the  Dedamationes  minores,  and  the 
doctor  is  made  to  state  his  case  against  the  two 
others :  it  is  an  interesting  specimen  of  a  very  conven- 
tional theme."  Two  other  plots  are  common  to  the 
Dedamationes  in  their  present  incomplete  form  and 
the  Institutio  oratoria.  One  is  entitled  Adulter 
sacerdos  and  is  as  follows  :  '  Priests  have  the  right 
of  freeing  one  man  from  sentence  of  death  ;  adultery 
is  to  be  punished  by  death.  A  priest  is  taken  in 
adultery  and  claims  immunity  for  himself  by  reason 
of  his  privilege.  He  is  killed,  and  his  slayer  is  accused 
of  murder.'  ^  The  other  is  even  more  fantastic  : 
'  The  law  requires  that  he  who  violates  a  woman 
should  die  within  thirty  days,  unless  he  obtain 
pardon  from  his  own  and  the  woman's  father.  A  man 
has  sinned,  and  obtains  pardon  from  the  woman's 

1  ibid.  vii.  1,  38  ;  4,  39.  2  2)cc7.  268. 

3  Quint.  V.  10,  104  {^decl  284). 


214  QUINTILIAN 

father,  but  is  refused  by  his  own  parent.    He  accuses 
his  father  of  madness.'  ^ 

These  coincidences  between  the  Institutio  and  the 
Dedamationes  are  mainly  interesting  for  the  Ught 
they  throw  on  QuintiUan's  attitude  towards  the 
conventional  school-declamations  :  he  does  not  reject 
them,  but  seeks  to  use  them  in  a  rational  way.  And 
certainly  no  reader  of  the  Dedamationes  jninores  can 
fail  to  detect  a  note  of  sincerity  in  all  that  is  said  by 
this  anonymous  schoolmaster.  Many  of  the  sennones 
are  admirable  in  their  own  way,^  and  the  dedama- 
tiones^ however  extravagant  the  subjects  proposed, 
are  notable  examples  of  restraint,  well-ordered 
arrangement  of  the  argument,  and  sound  psychology. 
Quotation  from  the  dedamationes  is  impossible,  but 
here  is  a  typical  sermo  :  the  subject  proposed  is  one 
Avhich  must  have  made  a  special  appeal  to  Quintilian.^ 

'  The  law  allows  a  man  to  demand  an  advocate.  Ingratitude 
is  a  criminal  offence.  A  rich  man  has  sent  a  poor  young  man  to 
Athens  at  his  own  expense  :  he  returns  an  orator.  A  delator 
accuses  the  rich  man  of  treason,  and  demands  as  his  advocate  the 
poor  student  whom  the  rich  man  had  educated.  The  poor  man 
pleads  in  court,  and  loses  the  case.  The  rich  man  sues  him  for 
ingratitude.' 

Sermo. 

*  You  understand  that  this  young  man  must  show  the  greatest 
respect  for  his  rich  patron  :  that  is  the  way  to  make  it  plain  that 
he  is  acting  under  necessit}-,  should  any  complaint  be  made  about 
his  conduct.  And  this  rule  should  be  generally  observed  in  all 
controversiae  which  deal  with  charges  of  ingratitude  :  we  must 
be  careful  not  to  make  the  accused  appear  ungrateful  in  his 
speech.    Only  very  seldom  will  you  meet  with  a  controversia  in 

1  Quint,  ix.  2,  90  {  =  Decl.  349). 

2  See  esp.  Decl  270,  316,  338,  349,  351-9.  «  ibid.  333. 


QUINTILTAN  215 

which  it  is  open  to  question  whether  the  man  accused  of  ingrati- 
tude ever  received  a  benefit.  Most  of  them,  as  here,  can  be 
reduced  to  the  following  questions.  Is  every  man  ungrateful 
who  has  received  a  benefit,  and  has  failed  to  requite  it  ?  Was 
the  man  bound  to  answer  every  call  on  his  gratitude  ?  Was 
he  able  to  do  so  ? 

'  Those  who  are  greedy  of  novel  situations  will  easily  be  tempted 
here  to  make  the  poor  man  suggest  that  the  rich  man  is  acting 
in  collusion  with  himself.  But  were  the  jury  to  believe  this, 
they  would  either  sentence  him  for  his  own  share  in  the  collusion 
or  else  for  his  ingratitude  on  this  occasion,  when  he  is  not  bound 
to  appear  in  the  courts  and  yet  accuses  his  patron  by  insinuating 
that  his  OT^Ti  acquittal  will  be  due  to  collusion.  Therefore,  as 
far  as  my  judgement  goes,  the  case  is  one  in  which  the  poor  man 
is  unwilling  to  appear  ;  what  he  says,  he  says  under  stress  of 
circumstances.' 

The  declamaiio  which  follows  develops  the  points 
suggested  in  the  sermo  :  Lysias  himself  could  not 
have  been  more  true  to  the  ethos  of  the  situation. 
And  it  is  interesting  to  compare  the  plea  of  duress 
put  forward  to  justify  the  poor  man's  action  in  the 
earlier  law-suit  with  Quintilian's  advice  to  a  young 
advocate  on  the  question  of  defending  a  client  who  is 
plainly  in  the  wrong.^  The  style  too,  with  its  short 
sentences  and  power  of  concise  statement,  is  very 
like  Quintilian's  ;  and  the  Latin  is  correct — with  one 
or  two  exceptions  where  the  text  is  doubtful.-  Some 
of  the  other  sermones  suggest  Quintilian's  thought 
and  manner  no  less  plainly.  In  one  the  theory  of 
finitio  is  stated  in  words  almost  identical  with  a 
corresponding  passage  in   the  Institutio   oratoria  ;  ^ 

1  Quint,  xii.  7,  6-7. 

^  As  a  rule  it  is  safer  not  to  accept  the  emendations  printed  in 
Ritter's  text. 

3  Decl  247  (=  Quint,  vii.  3,  19-23). 


216  QUINTILIAN 

another  gives  a  comparison  between  the  exordium  and 
epilogue  of  a  declamatio  which  is  well  worth  comparing 
with  Quintilian's  chapter  on  the  need  for  an  exordium 
in  public  oratory  ;  ^  and  elsewhere  the  scholastica 
materia  of  a  school  declamation  is  contrasted  with 
the  forense  opus  of  a  public  orator,^  a  contrast  which 
underKes  all  Quintilian's  theory  of  rhetoric. 

Whoever  their  author,  these  Declamationes  minores 
are  valuable  as  evidence  of  the  way  in  which  ancient 
rhetoric  was  taught.  In  all  the  Institutio  oratoria 
there  is  only  one  direct  reference  to  the  declamations 
which  Quintilian  must  have  given  every  day  at 
school.  As  an  instance  of  what  a  good  memory  can 
do,  Quintilian  mentions  the  fact  that  when  some 
distinguished  visitors  entered  his  class-room — a  com- 
mon occurrence  in  the  Latin  schools  of  rhetoric  ^ — 
he  was  always  able  to  repeat  word  for  word  the 
extemporary  declamation  which  had  been  inter- 
rupted by  their  arrival.''  The  Declamationes  take  us 
straight  into  such  a  class-room  and  show  us  how 
rhetoric  was  taught  by  men  like  Quintilian.  '  I  must 
show  you  the  way  ',  the  anonymous  teacher  says  in 
one  of  the  sermones  :  '  first  find  out  what  each  party 
is  aiming  at,  what  their  arguments  are  :  then  state 
those  arguments  as  briefly  and  as  clearly  as  possible ' ; 
and  he  follows  up  his  precept  with  a  practical 
illustration  of  how  it  should  be  done.^  This  is  in 
strict  accordance  with  Quintilian's  advice  : 

1  Ded.  338  (=  Quint,  iv.  1  ;  esp.  3-4).  ^  i^i^  325^  333. 

2  Pliny,  Epp.  ii.  18  ;  vi.  6,  3  ;  Bornecque,  p.  55. 

*  Quint,  xi.  2,  39.  ^  Deel.  241. 


QUINTILIAN  217 

'  The  teacher  should  every  day  say  something — or  rather 
many  things — which  his  pupils  may  retain  in  their  memories. 
For,  though  reading  will  supply  them  with  any  number  of  models 
to  imitate,  nevertheless  the  teacher's  own  words — his  "  living 
voice  "  as  the  jahrase  goes — gives  them  more  substantial  nourish- 
ment :  above  all,  if  the  teacher  be  a  man  whom  well-educated 
pupils  will  love  and  venerate.  It  is  amazing  how  much  more 
Avilling  we  are  to  imitate  those  for  whom  we  have  a  liking.'  ^ 

Indeed,  it  would  be  hard  not  to  have  a  hking  both 
for  Quintilian  and  for  the  author  of  the  Dedamationes. 
Here  is  the  latter' s  apology  for  what  might  seem 
unnecessary  repetition  : 

'  If  I  sometimes  repeat  the  same  thing  several  times  over  in  my 
analysis  of  these  confroversiae,  remember  that  I  do  so  partly  for 
the  sake  of  the  new-comers,  partly  because  the  analysis  involves 
repetition.  For  those  who  were  not  at  the  earlier  classes  must  be 
taught  the  general  principles  which  are  applicable  to  all  confro- 
versiae, and  analysis  (divisio)  is  especially  important  in  the  kind 
of  controversia  which  we  are  now  doing.'  ^ 

A   little   later   there   is   another   apology,    equally 

reminiscent  of  Quintilian' s  manner  : 

'  I  do  not  want  any  one  to  complain  that  I  am  not  giving  you 
an  opportunity  for  purple  patches  (loci).  You  can  develop  this 
declamation  if  you  like  and  show  off  your  talent ;  but  you  will 
be  making  a  speech  that  may  perhaps  be  pleasing  to  the  ear,  but 
will  certainly  have  nothing  to  do  ^ith  the  subject  set.'  ^ 

The  subject  set  was  the  following.    '  A  father  insists 

on  following  his  prodigal  son  through  the  public 

streets  in  tears  :   he  is  charged  with  madness.'    Were 

ancient   teachers   of  rhetoric   altogether   wrong   in 

setting  such  subjects  for  their  students  ?    May  it  not 

well  be  a  fine  achievement  of  education  to  teach  a  boy 

1  Quint,  ii.  2,  8.  2  jr)^^^  314 

3  ibid.  316  (p.  244,  Ritter) ;  compare  Quint,  x.  5.  22. 

3029  E  e 


218  QUTNTILIAN 

that  even  the  most  dramatic  situation  loses  none  of 
its  effectiveness  by  being  stated  clearly  in  simple, 
dignified  language  ? 

§  4.     Supplementary  Studies. 

Quintilian's  theory  of  rhetoric  occupies  seven  books 
(III-IX)  of  his  Institutio  oratoria.  There  is  no  use  in 
pretending  that  these  seven  books  make  light  reading, 
though  the  great  rhetor's  pupils  seem  to  have  prized 
them  more  highly  than  any  other  part  of  their 
master's  work.  To  the  modern  reader  they  are  as 
uninviting  as  an  ordinary  text-book  of  Formal  Logic  : 
'  a  bare  statement  of  rules ',  as  Quintilian  himself 
warns  his  readers  with  a  tactful  quotation  from 
Lucretius.^  Here  and  there,  of  course,  passages  can 
be  found  which  have  more  than  a  technical  interest : 
the  chapter  on  joking  as  a  fine  art  is  worth  comparing 
with  Cicero's  digression  on  the  same  subject,-  and 
those  who  enjoy  the  unravelling  of  complicated  word- 
puzzles  should  see  what  they  can  make  of  Quintilian's 
section  on  prose-rhythm.^  But  it  is  only  in  the  tenth 
book  that  Quintilian  regains  the  easy  conversational 
manner  which  is  his  when  he  is  at  his  best.  None 
but  a  pedant  could  feel  that  the  arid  questions  of 
detail  and  rhetorical  technique  which  make  so  much 
of  the  Institutio  oratoria  difficult  reading,  contain 
the  real  stuff  of  oratory.  Quintilian  knows  better 
than  that :  his  ninth  book  ends  with  a  hurried 
paragraph,  and  the  opening  words  of  his  next  chapter 

1  Quint,  iii.  1,  2-4. 

2  ibid.  vi.  3  ;   Cie.  dr  Or.  ii.  235-89.  ^  g^int.  ix.  4,  40-111. 


QUINTILIAN  219 

carry  the  '  Education  of  an  Orator '  forward  to  its 
last  and  most  important  stage.  How  can  a  student 
who  has  ah-eady  mastered  the  formal  precepts  of 
rhetoric  acquire  the  easy  sureness  of  habit  ?  ^ 

Quintilian  is  following,  more  or  less  consciously, 
the  general  principles  of  Cicero's  de  Orator e.  The 
question  with  which  this  tenth  book  of  the  Insiitutio 
oratoria  opens  should  thus  mark  the  transition  from 
Cicero's  puerilis  institution  with  its  studies  in  litera- 
ture and  rhetoric,  to  the  more  mature  culture  of  his 
politior  humanitas.  But  a  striking  coincidence  of 
phrase  which  occurs  in  this  same  chapter  shows  how 
far  Quintilian  is  from  the  true  spirit  of  Ciceronian 
humanitas.  Cicero  had  based  his  programme  of 
higher  studies  on  the  general  principle  that  an 
orator  must  possess  abundance  of  matter  (cojna 
rerum),  if  he  is  to  acquire  and  master  an  abundant 
vocabulary  {copia  verhorum).'  Quintilian  enuntiates 
what  is  at  first  sight  the  same  principle.  '  The 
orator ',  he  says,  '  must  be  possessed  of  certain 
resources  which  he  can  use  when  necessary  :  these 
are  abundance  of  matter  and  words  (cojna  rerum  ac 
verhorum)'  ^  But  his  development  of  this  doctrine 
differs  surprisingly  from  Cicero's  theor3^  The  matter 
of  oratory,  he  argues,  will  depend  on  the  particular 
subject  of  discussion.  What  is  wanted  is  a  ready 
command  of  vocabulary  ;  and  that  can  only  be 
acquired  by  wide  reading  in  Greek  and  Latin  litera- 
ture.*    In  other  words,  Quintilian' s  programme  of 

^  ibid.  X.  1,  1.  ^  Cic.  de  Or.  iii.  125  ;   above,  p.  113. 

3  Quint.  X.  1,  5.  ^  ibid.  x.  1,  6-8. 


220  QUINTILIAN 

higher  studies  is  no  more  than  a  continuation  of  the 
Uterary  course  aheady  given  by  the  gra7nmaticus  and 
rhetor. 

Generations  of  classical  scholars  have  turned  with 
pleasure  to  the  tenth  book  of  the  Institutio  oratoria  ; 
and  there  is  no  denying  that  Quintilian  is  at  his  best, 
or  almost  at  his  best,  as  a  literary  critic.  The  famous 
series  of  parallels  between  Greek  and  Latin  literature 
may  not  be  always  original  in  the  criticisms  which 
they  contain ;  but  those  criticisms  are  always 
discerning  and  always  agreeably  phrased.  Yet  to  one 
who  reads  the  Institutio  oratoria  as  a  whole  this 
tenth  book  comes  as  a  disappointment.  Compared 
with  those  portions  of  the  de  Oratore  in  which  Cicero 
describes  his  politior  humanitas,  the  literary  counsels 
of  the  great  schoolmaster  are  too  obviously  reminis- 
cent of  the  class-room.  Year  after  j^ear  Quintilian' s 
pupil  has  sat  on  the  benches,  listening  to  the  lectures 
of  grammaticus,  rhetor,  and  every  other  professor  of 
the  eyKVK\io<;  TratSeta.  Now  that  his  freedom  is  in 
sight,  he  is  bidden  take  up  his  books  again  :  tablet 
in  hand — for  Quintilian  does  not  neglect  even  that 
detail  ^ — he  is  to  re-read  his  classics,  note  their 
individual  excellences,  criticize  and  compare  one  with 
another,  above  all  busy  himself  with  the  imitation  of 
their  style.  Studendum  vero  semper  et  uhiquer  That 
is  Quintilian's  final  word  of  advice,  and  he  promises 
to  the  student  who  has  been  faithful  to  that  golden 
rule  an  achievement  which  he  describes  as  '  the  most 
precious  fruit  of  all  our  studies  and  the  noble  reward 
1  Quint.  X.  1,  20  ;  3,  31-3.  -  ibid.  x.  7,  27. 


QUINTILIAN  221 

of  our  years  of  labour '  :  the  power  of  delivering 
a  well-balanced,  well-phrased,  fluent  speech  on  any- 
ordinary  subject  with  a  minimum  of  preparation.^ 

All  of  this  could,  of  coui'se,  be  paralleled,  from  the 
de  Oratore,  or  indeed  from  any  ancient  author  who 
discusses  the  question  of  literary  composition.  But 
the  emphasis  is  different  in  Cicero's  dialogue  :  his 
politior  humanitas  connotes  something  more  than 
refinement  of  literary  taste.  And  the  contrast  is  made 
more  striking  by  what  has  all  the  appearance  of  an 
afterthought  in  QuintiUan's  twelfth  book.  Towards 
the  end  of  his  preface  to  the  first  book  Quintilian 
outlines  the  plan  of  his  work. 

'  The  first  book ',  he  tells  us,  '  Mill  contain  those  studies  which 
precede  the  work  of  the  rhetor  ;  in  the  second  we  shall  treat 
of  the  first  elementary  instruction  given  in  the  school  of  rhetoric 
and  of  the  questions  which  concern  the  substance  of  rhetoric. 
The  next  five  books  vdW  be  given  to  inventio,  to  Avhich  I  have 
added  the  proper  ordering  of  one's  matter  {dispositio).  Four 
more  A\dll  be  devoted  to  style,  memory  and  deliver}^.  Finally 
one  will  be  added  in  which  we  shall  perfect  the  orator  himself, 
discussing  to  the  best  of  our  powers  his  moral  character  ;  the 
method  to  be  observed  in  undertaking,  studj-ing  and  defending 
a  legal  case  ;  the  right  type  of  eloquence  ;  the  most  suitable  time 
for  ending  a  public  career  ;  the  studies  best  suited  for  the  end 
of  life.'  2 

With  one  exception,  this  is  an  exact  description  of 
the  matter  contained  in  the  Institutio  omtoria:  the 
greater  detail  given  concerning  the  matter*  of  the 

1  ibid.  X.  7,  1-4,  12. 

^  ibid,  i,  prooem.  21-2.  My  attention  was  first  drawn  to  this 
passage  by  Beltrami's  article  in  Studi  italiani  di  filologia  classica, 
xix  (1912),  pp.  63-72. 


222  QUINTILIAN 

twelfth  book  is  explained  by  the  novelty  which 
Quintilian  himself  claims  for  this  portion  of  his 
programme.^  But  the  exception  is  worth  noting. 
After  the  first  chapter  of  the  twelfth  book,  in  which 
Quintilian  discusses  the  moral  character  of  his 
perfect  orator,  three  chapters  are  inserted  on  the 
advantages  to  be  derived  from  a  study  of  philosophy, 
jurisprudence,  and  history.-  These  are,  he  tells  us, 
the  orator's  instruments,  the  weapons  which  he  must 
have  ever  ready  to  hand  for  use  in  the  fray  ;  always 
presupposing  that  ready  command  of  vocabulary  and 
metaphor,  that  knowledge  of  inventio  and  disposition 
that  power  of  memory  and  graceful  delivery  which 
have  been  scientifically  provided  for  in  the  first 
eleven  books  of  the  Institutio  oratoria.^  The  rest  of 
the  twelfth  book  then  follows  in  detail  the  plan 
already  outlined,  and  ends  with  a  brief  account  of  the 
occuiDations  suitable  for  an  orator  who  has  retired 
from  public  life.* 

Now  why  should  Quintilian  have  made  this  curious 
insertion  at  the  very  end  of  his  work  ?  Wh}^  begin 
all  over  again  a  programme  of  higher  studies  which 
has  apparently  already  been  completed  ?  An  answer 
to  these  questions  may  be  found  in  the  short 
Prooeinium  to  the  twelfth  book.  Here  Quintilian 
affects  a  momentary  alarm  at  the  horizon  which  is 
opening   before   him.      Caelum    undique   et   undique 

^  Quint,  xii,  prooem.  3-4.  '  ibid.  xii.  2 ;  3  ;  4. 

3  ibid.  xii.  6,  1. 

*  ibid.  xii.  11,  1-7.  The  rest  of  the  chapter  is  a  formal 
'  Epilogue  '  to  the  whole  A^•ork. 


QUINTILIAN  223 

pontus.  Hitherto  he  has  had  the  guidance  of  those 
who  had  written  either  manuals  of  rhetoric  or  essays 
on  literary  style.  Now  there  is  only  Cicero — and  even 
Cicero  is  at  best  a  partial  guide.  For  the  purpose  of 
this  twelfth  book  is  to  follow  the  orator  on  his 
course  through  public  life,  '  now  that  he  has  gone 
from  the  schools  of  rhetoric  and  is  either  borne  along 
by  his  own  vigour  or  seeks  a  nobler  ally  in  the  very 
temple  of  wisdom'.^  In  other  words,  Quintilian, 
who  frequently  speaks  in  metaphors  when  he  has 
some  weakness  to  conceal,  is  more  than  usually 
dependent  on  Cicero's  de  Orator e  for  the  matter  of 
his  twelfth  book  ;  and  he  probably  became  uneasily 
conscious  that  his  original  plan  excluded  some  of  the 
most  characteristic  features  of  Cicero's  educational 
theory.  So  he  adds  at  the  last  moment  a  hurried 
chapter  or  two  in  which  he  discusses  those  portions 
of  Cicero's  theory  with  which  he  was  himself  least 
in  sympathy.  There  is  even  a  clumsy  attempt  to  fit 
this  later  addition  into  the  original  plan  of  his  book 
without  appearing  to  do  so.  At  the  end  of  Book  II 
Quintilian  had  reserved  for  this  portion  of  the  twelfth 
book  a  discussion  of  certain  instrumenta  artis 
rhetoricae  which,  he  maintains,  are  more  properly 
defined  as  instrumenta  oratorisr  Presence  of  mind, 
a  powerful  voice,  physical  health  and  beauty  :  these 
are  the  principal  instrumenta  which  he  names  in  the 
corresponding  passage  of  his  twelfth  book.  They 
should,  of  course,  have  been  given  separate  treatment ; 

^  ibid,  xii,  prooem.  3. 

^  ibid.  ii.  21,  24.  3  ibid.  xii.  5.  1-6. 


224  QUINTILTAN 

but  they  are  in  fact  classed  with  the  study  of  philo- 
sophy, history,  and  law  as  instrumenta  non  artis, 
sed  oratoris}  Even  a  skilled  artist  cannot  always 
conceal  his  inconsistencies  ! 

No  reader  of  these  parenthetical  chapters  can  fail 
to  note  the  difference  between  Cicero's  enthusiastic 
plea  for  his  three  favourite  studies  and  Quintilian's 
brief  discussion  of  their  merits.  The  chapter  on 
philosophy  had  best  be  reserved  for  comparison  with 
Quintilian's  theory  of  the  ideal  orator  :  it  is  full  of 
half-grudging  admissions,  and  gives  one  the  impres- 
sion of  an  ungrateful  task  got  through  as  best  may 
be.  The  chapter  which  urges  the  necessity  of  legal 
knowledge  for  a  practising  lawyer  develops  a 
commonplace  theme  with  Quintilian's  usual  com- 
mon sense,  but  there  is  no  touch  of  personal 
enthusiasm  :  those  who  turn  away  from  oratory  to 
law  are  treated  as  cowards  who  have  despaired  of 
success  in  the  nobler  profession.-  And  the  study  of 
history  is  dismissed  in  three  brief  sentences,  with  the 
traditional  comment  that  oratory  is  always  more 
effective  when  illustrated  by  examples  from  the  past.^ 
This  from  an  author  who  had  alreadj^  found  space 
for  an  excursus  on  the  study  of  grammar  which  covers 
more  than  twenty  pages  of  his  first  book  !  And  it  is 
no  mere  accident  of  personal  taste  that  C*icero  should 
have  been  an  enthusiast  for  history,  Quintilian  for 
grammar.    It  is  the  old  contrast  between  the  student 

^  Quint,  xii.  5,  1. 

-  ibid.  xii.  3,  9.  The  whole  chapter  should  be  compared  with 
Cic.  de  Or.  i.  166-203.  234-5.5.  ^  Quint,  xii.  4. 


QUINTILIAN  225 

who  is  also  a  man  of  the  world  and  the  student  who 
knows  and  loves  only  his  books.  '  A  love  for  letters 
{grammatice)  and  the  habit  of  reading  do  not  end 
with  our  school-days,  but  are  lifelong  possessions  '  : 
the  phrase,  which  occurs  in  the  first  book  of  the 
Institutio  oratoria,^  sums  up  Quintilian's  intellectual 
aspirations. 

It  is  in  the  tenth  book,  then,  that  Quintihan's 
politior  humanitas  is  best  expressed,  and  for  that  very 
reason  the  book  has  never  lacked  readers  among 
those  who  love  the  classics.  For  Quintilian  is  the 
typical  classicist :  once  grant  his  canons  of  literary 
excellence,  and  his  judgement  is  unerring.  Cicero  was, 
of  course,  more  catholic  in  his  tastes  :  he  could  enjoy 
Naevius  and  Ennius  and  Plautus  and  their  like,  and 
he  felt  himself  the  immediate  heir  of  that  straight- 
forward, virile  speech  which  Cato  had  preferred  to  the 
scholastic  refinements  of  Greek  rhetoric.  Compared 
with  this  v/hole-hearted  admiration  for  everything 
Roman,  Quintilian's  range  is  limited.  For  him 
Cicero  and  the  great  Augustans  are  supreme  :  Virgil 
is  his  Homer,  Livy  his  Herodotus,  Sallust  his 
Thucydides,  Cicero  his  Demosthenes  and  Plato.  It  is 
a  good  choice,  but  a  student's  choice  ;  and  it  has 
become  traditional  among  students.  Greek  classi- 
cism, it  has  been  said,  won  its  final  victory  in  the 
schools  of  Greek  literature  during  the  reign  of 
Augustus."  Quintilian  is  the  first  of  the  Latin 
classicists :    he  looks  back  to  a  past  generation  and 

1  ibid.  i.  8,  12. 

^  Wilamowitz  in  Hermes,  vol.  xxxv  (1900),  pp.  41  foil. 
3o;*  -p  f 


226  QUINTILIAN 

is  content  with  their  achievement.  He  is  a  student 
writing  for  students  ;  and  it  is  characteristic  of  his 
theory  that  whilst  Cicero  recognizes  the  approval  of 
a  typical  Roman  crowd  as  the  final  test  of  good 
oratory/  Quintilian  contrasts  the  judgement  of  '  the 
uneducated  crowd  '  with  the  canons  of  his  own  more 
literary  criticism.-  Oratory  has  become  a  doctrina 
scholastica,  to  be  relished  by  the  cultured  few  :  the 
younger  Pliny,  writing  to  Tacitus,  justifies  his  own 
long-winded  oratory  by  an  appeal  to  the  same  rule. 
'  A  short  speech  ',  he  writes,  '  is  more  popular  with 
the  many.  Granted  ;  but  the  many  are  lazy  and  it 
would  be  absurd  to  count  their  idle  whims  as  a 
serious  judgement.'  ^  Was  Tacitus  wrong  when  he 
contended  that  oratory  was  dead  in  Rome  ? 

Student  though  he  was,  Quintihan  was  a  less  well 
read  man  than  Cicero  ;  and  here  again  he  is  typical 
of  his  generation.  No  reader  of  the  younger  Pliny's 
correspondence,  with  its  artificial  Ciceronianism,  can 
fail  to  notice  that  the  literar}^  culture  which  Pliny 
affects  is  less  humane  (in  the  Latin  sense  of  the  word) 
than  Cicero's  spontaneous  enthusiasm  for  philosophy 
and  letters,  for  politics  and  the  society  of  cultivated 
men.  There  is  less  of  the  old  Roman  vigour  ;  and 
there  is  less  of  the  new  wine  of  Greek  thought.  It  is 
the  same  with  Quintilian.  The  Institutio  oratoria  is 
less  vigorous  than  the  de  Oratore,  and  it  is  also  less 
Greek.  In  theory,  of  course,  Quintilian  expects  his 
ideal  orator  to  be  familiar  with  the  best  of  both 

1  Cic.  de  Or.  ii.  159  ;  Brut.  184  ;  Or.  24. 

2  Quint.  X.  1,  43  ;  see  also  ii.  12.  ^  Pliny,  Epp.  i.  20,  22. 


QUINTILIAN  227 

literatures.  The  boy  learns  to  speak  Greek  before 
he  can  speak  Latin,  begins  liis  course  of  literature 
with  the  Greek  grammaticus,  and  studies  rhetoric  in 
Greek  as  thoroughly  as  in  Latin  ;  even  in  the  tenth 
book  Greek  literature  gets  the  preference.  Yet  it 
may  fairly  be  questioned  whether  Quintilian  or  any 
of  his  contemporaries  had  the  knowledge  of  Greek 
literature  implied  in  Cicero's  2^olitior  humanitas. 
They  could  read  Greek,  of  course,  speak  it  fluently 
and  write  it  correctly.  Quintihan  names  translation 
from  Greek  into  Latin  as  a  regular  school-exercise  ;  ^ 
and  the  writers  of  this  generation  all  affect  the  habit 
of  using  Greek  phrases  in  the  middle  of  their  Latin. 
But  it  is  worth  while  to  test  Quintilian' s  knowledge 
of  Greek  literature  by  the  relative  frequency  of  his 
quotations  from  the  classical  Greek  writers.  It  is 
not  a  very  sure  test,  for  no  writer  is  bound  to  quote 
all  he  knows  ;  and  on  the  other  hand,  many  of 
Quintilian' s  quotations  may  be  taken  at  second-hand 
from  one  or  other  of  the  many  text-books  which  he 
consulted  when  writing  the  Institutio.  Nevertheless 
a  rough  estimate  may  be  of  interest,  and  yields 
surprising  results. 

The  Iliad  is  quoted  only  fourteen  times  in  the 
Institutio  oratoria,  and  seven  of  these  passages  occur 
in  a  formal  critique  of  Homer  which  is  known  to  have 
been  borrowed  from  a  Greek  source.-  The  Odyssey 
is  quoted  twice,  once  in  the  same  formal  critique.^ 

1  Quint.  X.  5,  2. 

2  ibid.  viii.  4,  21,  24;  ix.  3,  57;  x.  1,  46-9;  xi.  3,  158; 
xii.  10,  64.  3  iii^^  viii,  3  84  .  x.  i,  48. 


228  QUINTILIAN 

Hesiod,  Aeschylus,  and  Sophocles  do  not  appear  at 
all :  even  Euripides,  most  quotable  of  all  Greek 
poets,  appears  only  twice,  and  one  of  the  two  passages 
quoted  is  certainly  borrowed  from  Cicero's  de 
Orator e.^  Menander,  whom  Quintilian  names  after 
Homer  as  a  poet  to  be  read  in  the  school  of  literature, 
and  who  is  singled  out  for  special  praise  in  the  tenth 
book,^  appears  twice.^  Eupolis  and  Aristophanes  are 
quoted  in  the  chapter  on  music,  which  is  again 
certainly  dependent  on  some  Greek  source.*  Pindar's 
authority  is  appealed  to  twice,  and  Quintilian  seems 
to  have  known  his  poems  well.^  But  no  other  Greek 
poet  is  quoted,  and  the  figures  for  Greek  prose 
literature  are  even  more  surprising.  The  de  Corona  of 
Demosthenes  and  its  companion-piece  by  Aeschines 
are,  of  course,  frequently  cited  as  standard  authori- 
ties,^ and  there  are  half-a-dozen  passages  from  other 
speeches  of  Demosthenes.'  But  the  other  Greek 
orators  do  not  appear  at  all,  with  the  possible 
exception  of  Isocrates,  two  of  whose  panegyrics  are 
cited  in  one  passage  as  conventional  types. ^  Plato's 
dialogues  are  well  represented  ;  ^  and  there  is  an 
interesting  chapter  in  which  Quintilian  shows  detailed 

1  Quint,  i.  12,  18  ( =Cic.  de  Or.  ii.  187)  ;  v.  10,  31. 

2  ibid.  i.  8,  7  ;  x.  1,  69-71.  ^  n^i^  jij  11,  27  ;  ix.  3,  89. 
*  ibid.  i.  10,  18  ;  cf.  xii.  10,  65  (a  commonplace  of  the  schools). 
5  ibid.  viii.  6,  71  ;  x.  1,  109  ;  cf.  x.  1,  61. 

«  ibid.  iii.  6,  3  ;  iv.  2,  131  ;  v.  13,  42  et  saepe. 
'  ibid.  iii.  8,  5,  65  ;  v.  14,  4  ;  vi.  1,  17  ;  5,  7  ;  ix.  4,  63. 
8  ibid.  iii.  8,  9. 

»  ibid.  i.  10,  13  ;   ii.  16,  3  ;   21,  4  ;   iii.  1,  10-12 ;  4,  10  ;   viii. 
4,  23  ;  6,  64  ;  ix.  4,  77  ;  xi.  2,  9. 


QUINTILIAN  229 

knowledge  of  the  Gorgias  and  PhaedruSy  though  he 
complains  that  these  two  dialogues  are  usually  quoted 
at  second-hand  by  writers  who  have  the  reputation 
of .  being  well  informed. ^  The  historians  hardly 
appear  at  all.  A  sentence  is  quoted  from  Thucydides 
to  illustrate  the  danger  of  falling  into  poetic  rhythm, 
in  the  middle  of  prose  ;  -  but  the  passage  may  well 
have  been  a  stock  example  in  Greek  text-books  of 
style.  And  there  is  one  reference  to  Xenophon's 
Memorabilia  :  ^  nothing  from  the  Anabasis  or  from 
Herodotus.  Even  within  the  strictest  limits  of 
classical  selection  the  lacunae  are  numerous. 

Statistics  are  seldom  good  evidence  for  anything 
so  intangible  as  literary  education  ;  but  it  should  be 
remembered  that  Quintilian's  subject-matter  gave 
him  endless  opportunities  for  quotation,  and  that  the 
Institutio  oratoria  fairl}^  bristles  Avith  quotations 
from  Cicero  and  Virgil.  The  conclusion  is  obvious. 
Quintilian's  own  reading  was  almost  exclusively  in 
Latin  literature  :  the  Greek  poets  and  orators  whom 
he  quotes  are  those  whom  he  had  read  and  learnt  by 
heart  at  school.  Plato  is  the  one  prose  author  whom 
he  seems  to  have  read  for  the  sheer  delight  of  his 
literary  style.  Demosthenes  and  Aeschines  were 
familiar  from  the  ordinary  routine  of  his  classwork  * 
— and  the  absence  of  quotations  from  the  other  Attic 
orators  is  thus  doubly  significant.  With  the  excep- 
tion of  Demosthenes,  Cicero  has  definitely  displaced 
the  Attic  orators  in  the  schools  of  Latin  rhetoric  : 

1  ibid.  ii.  15,  5,  10,  24-31. 

2  ibid.  ix.  4,  78.  »  n^^^  jx.  2,  36.  ^  ibid.  x.  I,  22,  105. 


230  QUINTILIAN 

Quintilian  even  boasts  of  the  change.^  As  public 
professor  of  Latin  rhetoric  he  could  perhaps  hardly 
have  said  less ;  but  the  contrast  with  Cicero's 
humanitas  remains. 

§  5.  Vir  bonus  dicendi  peritus. 
It  is  the  fashion  nowadays  to  explain  every 
theory  put  forward  by  a  Roman  winter  as  the  adapta- 
tion, or  more  often  the  misrepresentation,  of  some 
Greek  ideal.  Quintilian  has  a  theory  to  put  forward, 
an  ideal  in  which  he  believes.  For  him  only  a  good 
man  can  be  an  orator  ;  perfect  oratory  implies  a  high 
moral  standard  as  well  as  complete  mastery  over 
every  form  of  speech.  '  The  orator  whom  we  are 
educating  ',  he  says  in  his  preface  to  the  first  book, 
'  is  the  perfect  orator  who  can  be  no  other  than  a 
good  man  ;  that  is  why  we  require  of  him  not  merely 
eminence  in  the  art  of  speaking,  but  also  every  moral 
virtue.'  -  And  again  in  the  second  book  :  '  The  art 
which  we  are  trying  to  teach  and  which  we  cherish 
as  an  ideal  is  a  virtue,  because  it  is  that  true  rhetoric 
which  belongs  to  the  good  man.'  ^  And  the  twelfth 
book  opens  with  these  words  :  '  Let  us  assume  that 
our  orator  is  the  man  defined  by  Cato  as  "  a  good 
man  able  to  speak  "  ;  but  above  all  that  he  is  what 
Cato  puts  first  in  his  definition  as  being  essentially 
the  more  important  and  noble,  a  good  man.'  * 
Language  could  not  be  plainer.  Quintilian  lays  it 
down  as  a  first  principle  of  his  whole  educational 

1  Quint.  X.  1,  105-12.  ^  j^j^  j^  prooem.  9,  18. 

3  ibid.  ii.  20,  4.  ^  ibid.  xii.  1,  1. 


QUINTILIAN  231 

theory  that  only  a  good  man  can  be  an  orator.  Was 
his  faith  in  this  principle  a  personal  conviction  ?  Or 
is  he  merely  repeating  the  doctrine  of  some  con- 
temporary Greek  teacher  ? 

One  thing  is  certain  :  Quintilian  did  not  get  his 
ideal  of  the  vir  bonus  dicendi  peritus  from  Cicero. 
Once  or  twice  in  the  de  Oratore  Cicero  makes  passing 
reference  to  the  obvious  truth  that  oratory  can  only 
benefit  mankind  if  the  orator  is  himself  a  good  man. 
A  man  of  talent,  he  says,  should  always  be  en- 
couraged ;  but  if  he  is  also  a  good  man,  he  should  be 
implored  to  perfect  his  gifts,  for  the  sake  of  the 
State's  welfare.!  And  later  in  the  dialogue  Crassus 
reminds  his  hearers  that  a  gift  for  oratory  carries  with 
it  a  heavy  responsibility,  for  eloquence  is  one  of  the 
noblest  virtues  :  the  greater  our  talent,  the  greater 
also  should  be  our  moral  worth.-  Quintilian  goes  far 
beyond  this.  For  him  it  is  literally  true  that  a  bad 
man  can  never  be  a  good  orator.  That  the  gift  of 
eloquence  can  be  turned  to  evil  purposes  is,  of  course, 
obvious  ;  and  Quintilian,  were  he  forced  to  choose 
between  talent  and  virtue,  would  prefer  to  see  his 
pupil  naturally  dull  rather  than  naturally  wicked.^ 
But  true  oratory  is  impossible  without  moral  good- 
^ness.  For  the  orator's  aim  is  to  carry  conviction, 
and  we  trust  those  only  whom  Ave  know  to  be  worthy 
of  our  trust. ^  That  is  why  Quintilian  rejects  as 
incomplete  Cicero's  definition  of  rhetoric  :    '  the  art 

!  Cic.  de  Or.  ii.  85.  ^  ibid.  in.  55, 

3  Quint,  i.  3,  2  ;  xii.  1,  2. 

^  ibid.  iv.  1,  7  ;  2,  125  ;  vi.  2,  13  ;  xii.  1,  10-13  ;  Appel,  p.  33. 


232  QUINTILIAN 

of  speoJdng  so  as  to  persuade  '.^  In  one  form  or 
another  that  definition  was  taught  in  most  of  the 
Greek  schools,  and  Quintilian  quotes  in  support  of  it 
a  long  list  of  authorities :  Plato  (in  the  Gorgias), 
Aristotle,^  ApoUodorus,  Hermagoras,  Theodorus,  and 
Cornelius  Celsus.  The  last  named,  he  complains, 
makes  no  secret  of  his  view  that  eloquence  is  in  no 
sense  a  virtue,  having  for  its  proper  reward,  not  a 
good  conscience,  but  victory  in  debate.^  Quintilian 
protests  against  this  cynical  attitude.  '  We  have 
undertaken  to  educate  the  perfect  orator,  Avhom  we 
wish  to  be  above  all  a  good  man.  Let  us  then  turn 
rather  to  those  who  have  a  higher  opinion  of  our 
labours.'  And  he  ends  by  adopting  the  Stoic 
definition  of  rhetoric,  '  the  science  of  speaking  well  '.* 
Does  this  mean  that  Quintilian  borrowed  his  ideal 
of  the  vir  bonus  dicendi  peritus  from  Stoic  sources  ? 
Several  recent  critics  have  been  tempted  bj''  this 
apparently  simple  solution.^  One  has  even  gone  so 
far  as  to  argue  that  Cato's  famous  definition  could 
not  possibly  be  original,  but  must  be  borrowed  from 
the  Stoa.  '  What  could  have  given  the  old  man  the 
idea  of  insisting  so  strongly   on  moral  worth  ?  '  ^ 

1  Quint,  ii.  15,  5  ;  Appel,  pp.  31  foil. 

^  For  Quintilian's  account  of  the  definition  given  by  Aristotle 
in  his  Rhetoric,  ceo  Angermann,  p.  29. 

3  Quint,  ii.  15,  32.  "  ibid.  ii.  15,  33-8. 

^  Raubenheimer,  pp.  68  foil.  ;  Appel,  pp.  9  foil.  ;  Schanz, 
ii.  2,  p.  462. 

6  Radermacher  in  Rhein.  Mus.  liv  (1899),  pp.  285  foil.,  who 
there  puts  forward  the  view  that  the  whole  of  Quintilian's  twelfth 
book  was  an  afterthought ;  later  he  modified  these  views  {ibid.  Ivii 
(1902),  pp.  312  foil.). 


QUINTILIAN  233 

This  is  Quellenkritik  run  wild  with  a  vengeance  ;  but 
it  is  not  the  worst  of  its  kind.  Once  allow  that 
Quintilian  has  used  Greek  Stoic  sources,  and  the 
Quellenforscher  takes  the  bit  between  his  teeth. 
Among  the  minor  works  attributed  to  Plutarch  is  a 
short  essay  On  the  Education  of  Children,  which  has 
often  been  compared  with  Quintilian' s  first  book.^ 
The  two  writings  naturally  have  much  in  common, 
since  both  contain  matter  which  was  part  of  the 
ordinary  stock-in-trade  at  the  service  of  every 
essayist  on  the  subject ;  and  there  were  essayists  in 
plenty  under  the  early  Empire.  But  the  modern 
Quellenforscher  sees  '  parallels  '  everywhere,  and  the 
following  gem  deserves  to  be  preserved.-  Quintilian, 
writing  for  Latin-speaking  parents,  holds  that  a 
Roman  boy  should  learn  Greek  before  he  can  speak 
Latin :  a  sermone  Graeco  inienmi  incipere  maloj^ 
'  Pseudo-Plutarch  ',  to  give  a  dull  writer  an  ugly 
name,  insists  that  Greek  boys  should  be  taught  to 
speak  Greek  correctly :  ^y]Ty)Teop  ...  en  hcutol 
*E\\y)VLKa  Kal  TrepiTpava  XaXelv.*  Why  bother  about 
the  context  ?  Down  go  the  two  '  parallels  '  in  the 
Quellenforscher' s  note-book,  and  we  have  the  proof 
that  Quintilian  and  '  Pseudo-Plutarch '  are  both 
copying  from  some  lost  Greek  source.  Since  Quinti- 
lian quotes  Chrysippus  five  times  in  his  first  book,^ 
the  deduction  is  obvious :  Quintilian  and  '  Pseudo- 
Plutarch  '    are  both   copying  from   Chrysippus,    or 

*  Especially  by  Gudeman  in  his  Prolegomena  to  the  Dialogus 
of  Tacitus.  "  Raubenheiraer,  p.  56. 

3  Quint,  i.  1,  12.  *  Ps.-Plut.,  p.  4  a. 

fi  Quint,  i.  1,  4  ;    1,  16  ;   3,  14  ;    10,  32  ;    11,  17. 

8039  Q  g 


234  QUINTILIAN 

(better  still)  from  some  Stoic  essayist  who  happens 
to  quote  Chrysippus  in  support  of  his  own  views. 

Quintilian's  own  account  of  the  debt  which  he 
owes  to  the  writings  of  Greek  philosophers  is  not 
quite  so  simple.  Starting  from  his  first  assumption 
that  only  the  good  man  can  be  an  orator,  he  com- 
plains more  than  once  in  his  Institutio  oratoria  that 
the  philosophers  have  laid  claim  to  more  than  their 
fair  share  in  the  work  of  education.  Quintilian 
describes  the  history  of  this  gradual  usurpation  in 
his  preface  to  the  first  book,  and  the  express  mention 
of  Cicero's  name  reminds  us  that  he  is  here  borrowing 
liberally  from  the  de  Orator e}  The  same  thought  is 
repeated  in  the  second  book.  '  Some  maintain  ',  he 
says,  '  that  it  is  the  function  of  philosophy  to  discuss 
questions  of  ethical  conduct ;  and  I  do  not  disagree 
with  them.  For  by  the  word  "  philosopher  "  they 
mean  "  a  good  man  "  ;  and  there  is  nothing  sm-pris- 
ing  for  us  in  the  fact  that  an  orator  should  also 
discuss  these  matters,  since  we  do  not  distinguish 
between  the  orator  and  the  good  man.'  -  In  the 
tenth  book  Quintilian  includes  the  philosophers  in 
his  list  of  authors  whom  the  young  orator  should 
read  :  '  we  should  not  have  to  read  them  ',  he  adds, 
'  if  the  orators  had  not  abandoned  to  them  the  best 
part  of  their  own  work  '.^  And  the  twelfth  book 
expresses  the  hope  that  '  some  day  a  perfect  orator 
may  be  given  us  who  shall  win  back  for  eloquence 

1  Quint,  i,  prooem.  11-17  ;  Cic.  de  Or.  iii.  56-62. 

2  Quint,  ii.  21,  12  ;  Appel,  pp.  9  foil. 

3  ibid.  X.  1,  35  ;  xii.  2,  6-8. 


QUINTILIAN  235 

a  stolen  possession,  and  shall  claim  as  his  own  this 
science,  which  is  now  made  hateful  by  the  arrogance 
of  some  who  poison  its  good  lessons  by  their  own 
vicious  lives.'  ^ 

These  passages  illustrate  Quintilian's  attitude  to- 
wards the  study  of  philosophy.  With  his  interest  in 
moral  conduct  he  cannot  deny  the  utility  of  much 
that  the  philosophers  have  written  ;  but  in  his  eyes 
they  are  usurpers.  And  he  is  particularly  hard  on 
the  modern  philosopher  a  la  mode  of  the  early 
Empire.  '  I  have  no  difficulty  in  admitting  that 
many  of  the  ancient  philosophers  taught  virtue  and 
lived  as  they  taught ;  but  in  our  own  day  most  of 
those  who  make  profession  of  philosophy  have  used 
the  title  as  a  cloak  for  the  gravest  crimes.'  -  The 
chapter  on  the  study  of  jurisprudence  ends  with 
another  shot  at  the  philosophers. 

'  Some  of  those  who  find  the  labour  of  oraton^  too  severe 
become  lawyers.  .  .  .  Others  are  more  arrogant  in  their  sloth. 
All  of  a  sudden  they  begin  to  frown  and  grow  a  beard,  and 
pretend  to  despise  the  art  of  oratory.  They  go  to  school  for 
a  time  with  the  philosophers,  and  then  walk  the  streets  in  gloomy 
austerity  whilst  leading  dissolute  lives  at  home.  Thus  they 
acquire  a  reputation  by  despising  others  :  for  men  can  make 
a  pretence  of  philosophy,  but  not  of  eloquence.'  ' 

It  is  impossible  to  read  this  last  passage  without 
being  reminded  of  Seneca.  The  style  is  Seneca's,  and 
the  thought  is  more  akin  to  Seneca's  than  appears 
at  first  sight.     Indeed  there  are  many  traces   of 

1  ibid.  xii.  2,  9. 

^  ibid,  i,  prooem.  15  ;  Cic.  de  Or.  iii.  57. 

3  Quint,  xii.  3,  12. 


236  QUINTILIAN 

Seneca's  inflaence  in  the  Instiiutio  oratoria :  most 
notable  of  all,  the  following  personal  reminiscence, 
which  occurs  in  the  tenth  book. 

'  So  far  [we  are  at  the  end  of  Quintilian's  list  of  Latin  authors 
worth  reading  for  their  stjde],  I  have  deliberately  made  no  men- 
tion of  Seneca,  because  of  the  false  idea  which  people  commonly 
have  about  me,  that  I  condemn  him  and  even  hate  him.  The 
idea  first  gained  currency  when  I  was  doing  my  best  to  recall 
our  decadent,  outworn,  wilful  st3de  of  oratory  back  to  more 
exacting  standards.  Seneca  was  then  almost  the  only  author 
whom  young  men  would  read.  It  was  never  my  intention  to 
throw  him  aside  completel^^,  but  I  could  not  allow  him  to  be 
preferred  to  better  men  whom  he  himself  was  never  weary  of 
attacking  ;  for  he  Imew  that  his  own  style  was  different,  and 
felt  that  it  could  never  please  those  who  found  pleasure  in  his 
predecessors.  As  for  the  younger  generation,  they  enjoyed  him 
but  could  not  imitate  him  ;  they  were  as  far  behind  him  as  he 
was  behind  the  ancients.  For  I  could  wish  that  they  were  his 
equals  or  at  least  his  near  rivals.  But  they  liked  him  for  his 
faults,  and  made  a  point  of  affecting  what  they  found  easiest 
to  imitate  :  thus  they  wronged  Seneca  by  boasting  that  they  had 
mastered  his  style.'  ^ 

And  Quintilian  ends  with  the  advice  that  Seneca 
should  be  read  only  by  those  who  are  old  enough  to 
distinguish  between  his  virtues  and  his  faults  :  '  for 
there  is  much  to  admire  in  him,  much  that  can  be 
approved,  provided  you  take  the  trouble  to  choose. 
If  only  he  had  done  this  himself  !  For  a  nature  that 
so  achieved  its  aim  deserved  to  aim  at  better  things.'  ^ 
There  is  a  warmth  of  feeling  in  these  regrets  which 
suggests  that  Quintilian  had  once  found  himself 
under  the  charmer's  spell.  Seneca  was  at  the  height 
of  his  fame  when  Quintilian  was  a  student  in  Rome, 
1  Quint.  X.  1.  125-7.  ^  /^^^  ^  i^  131 


QUINTILIAN  237 

and  the  young  Spaniard  must  have  read  the  Dialogues 
and  the  Letters  to  Lucilius  when  they  were  first  given 
to  the  pubHc.  Did  he  owe  them  his  interest  in  the 
psychology  of  education  ?  I  hardly  think  so  ;  for 
Quintilian  was  born  serious.  Still  he  must  have  read 
his  fellow-countryman's  brilliant  essays  with  a  young 
man's  enthusiasm,  and  the  tone  of  the  Institutio 
oratoria  suggests  that  Quintilian  owed  more  to  these 
essays  than  to  Cicero's  philosophical  dialogues. 
Indeed  it  is  surprising  how  seldom  Quintilian,  who 
never  misses  an  opportunity  of  quoting  Cicero,  takes 
a  quotation  from  his  hero's  strictly  philosophical 
work.^  Seneca,  on  the  other  hand,  is  never  quoted ; 
and  the  omission  is  significant.  The  Institutio 
oratoria  was  ^vritten  as  an  appeal  from  Seneca  to 
Cicero,  and  Quintilian  could  hardly  afford  to  make 
public  his  debt  to  the  man  whose  influence  he  had 
been  combating  for  the  past  twenty  years. 

Quintilian  names  the  other  Latin  philosophers 
whom  he  thinks  most  worth  reading :  Brutus, 
Cornelius  Celsus  (a  disciple  of  the  Sextii),  a  Stoic 
wi'iter  by  the  name  of  Plautus,  and  Catius,  an 
Epicurean.'^  But  it  is  plain  that  none  of  these  can  be 
compared  with  either  Cicero  or  Seneca.  Plato  was 
certainly  Quintihan's  favourite  among  the  Greeks  ;  ^ 
and  he  had  also  read  Chrysippus.''  These  were,  no 
doubt,  the  veteres  whom  he  praises  in  his  preface  to 
the  first  book,  but  we  have  his  own  word  for  it  that 
he  had  read  others  and  did  not  consider  himself 

1  See  Bonncll's  Index.  -  Quint,  x.  1,  123-4. 

3  ibid.  i.  12,  15  ;  x.  1,  81.  *  See  above,  p.  193. 


238  QUINTILIAN 

bound  by  the  teaching  of  any  particular  school.^ 
Further  than  this  we  can  hardly  go,  and  it  is  always 
a  risky  thing  to  deny  the  use  of  any  individual 
writer.  But  Quintilian's  general  attitude  towards 
the  study  of  philosophy  is  plain  enough.  Granted 
the  unhappy  division  between  rhetoric  and  the 
theory  of  moral  conduct,  no  orator  can  afford  to 
neglect  the  works  of  the  philosophers  ;  but  he  should 
read  them  with  a  view  to  oratory,  not  accepting  the 
philosophic  ideal.  Quintilian  would  never  have 
advised  his  young  men  to  become  pupils  in  the  school 
of  a  philosopher.  And  it  is  interesting  to  note  how 
carefully  he  abstains  from  giving  this  advice  in  the 
chapter  of  his  twelfth  book  which  deals  expressly 
with  the  study  of  philosophy. 

Virtue  can  be  taught,  so  his  argument  begins.  No 
man  can  hope  to  be  just  or  brave  or  temperate  who 
has  not  trained  himself  to  acquire  these  virtues  ;  and 
his  training  will  not  be  intelligent  unless  he  makes 
a  study  of  them.-  But  if  all  men  must  studj'  the 
science  of  virtue,  Cicero  tells  us  that  the  orator  has 
a  peculiar  need  of  this  knowledge  and  must,  therefore, 
study  philosophy.^  Cicero  is  again  quoted  a  sentence 
or  two  further  on,  out  of  deference  to  his  authority  ; 
and  then  Quintilian's  natural  instinct  asserts  itself. 

'  It  is  not  my  purpose  in  giving  this  advice  to  persuade  the 
orator  to  become  a  philosopher  ;  for  no  other  profession  has 
failed  so  conspicuously  in  the  duties  of  a  citizen  and  in  every  work 
proper  to  an  orator.    What  philosopher  was  ever  successful  in  the 

1  Quint,  i,  prooem.  11  ;  iii.  1,  22  ;  xii.  2,  26. 

2  ibid.  xii.  2,  1-4. 

3  ibid.  xii.  2,  5  ;  Cic.  de  Or.  iii.  74,  104. 


QUINTILIAN  239 

law-courts  or  distinguished  as  a  public  speaker  ?  Which  of  them 
ever  took  part  in  the  government  of  his  country,  in  spite  of  all 
their  theories  ?  My  wish  is  that  the  orator  whom  I  am  educating 
should  be,  if  possible,  a  Roman  philosopher,  showing  himself  a 
true  citizen  in  practical  work,  not  in  private  arguments.  But 
since  the  study  of  wisdom  has  been  abandoned  by  those  who 
devote  themselves  to  oratory,  and  has  been  withdrawn  from  its 
proper  sphere — 'the  forum  with  all  its  publicity — first  to  the 
porticoes  and  gymnasia,  more  recently  to  the  privacy  of  the 
schoolroom  ;  we  must  perforce  seek  those  lessons  which  an 
orator  must  learn,  and  which  arc  not  given  by  teachers  of 
rhetoric,  from  those  who  still  retain  the  knowledge.  We  must 
read  and  re-read  those  authors  who  formulate  the  rules  of  virtue  : 
only  thus  can  the  orator's  life  be  combined  with  the  knowledge 
of  things  divine  and  human.'  ^ 

There  follows  a  long  passage  in  which  Quintilian 
enumerates  the  advantages  to  be  gained  from  a  study 
of  each  of  the  three  philosophical  sciences  :  dialectics, 
physics  (including  psychology),  and  ethics.^  Here 
again  the  emphasis  is  on  reading  and  private  study, 
not  on  personal  adherence  to  any  particular  school. 
The  question  of  a  choice  between  the  different  schools 
has  to  be  faced,  however,  and  Quintilian  has  a  word 
to  say  about  each.  Epicurus  professes  contempt  of 
rhetoric,  Aristippus  is  too  slothful,  Pyrrho  unable  to 
make  up  his  own  mind  :  these  three  are  immediately 
ruled  out  of  court.  The  Academy  is  more  useful 
because  of  the  attention  it  gives  to  dialectics  ;  and 
it  can  claim  great  ora.tors  (Cicero  is  not  named) 
among  its  pupils.  The  Peripatetics  were  the  first 
to  debate  theses,  but  Quintilian  implies  that  he 
thinks  poorly  of  their  teaching.     The  Stoics,  though 

1  Quint,  xii.  2,  6-8.  2  j^j^  ^ii.  2,  10-23. 


240  QUINTILIAN 

they  lack  style  and  fluency,  are  supreme  in  argu- 
ment.^ 

'  But  the  orator  owes  allegiance  to  no  school.  For  the  work  to 
which  he  has  set  himself  is  nobler  and  more  sublime  ;  it  is  his 
aim  to  be  recognized  as  perfect  both  in  his  oratory  and  in  his 
life.  The  models  which  he  must  imitate  are  in  speech  those  who 
are  most  eloquent  and  in  moral  conduct  those  who  hold  the 
strictest  rule  of  honour  and  who  point  the  straightest  path  to 
virtue.'  ^ 

The  chapter  ends  with  a  characteristic  phrase.  All 
this  study  of  philosophy  is  good  and  useful,  but  it  is 
better  and  more  useful  to  know  the  noble  deeds  of 
the  past ;  the  examples  of  courage,  justice,  good 
faith,  temperance,  and  constancy  left  us  by  Fabricius, 
Regulus,  Mucins,  and  their  like.  '  For  the  Greeks 
may  excel  in  precept,  but  the  Romans  excel  in  what 
is  greater,  example.'  ^ 

It  is  tempting  to  go  on  quoting  from  this  twelfth 
book,  for  it  is  full  of  characteristic  sayings.  Enough 
has  been  said,  however,  to  show  what  QuintiUan 
meant  by  his  ideal  of  the  vir  ho7ius  dicendi  peritus  and 
to  define  his  attitude  towards  the  schools  of  philo- 
sophy then  fashionable  in  Rome.  No  hard  and  fast 
line  can  be  drawn  between  Quintilian  and  Seneca — 
both  were  men  of  their  time ;  but  QuintiUan' s 
idealism  was  personal  to  himself.  During  his  long 
career  as  teacher  he  had  come  to  the  conclusion  that 
the  decadence  which  all  men  recognized  in  Roman 
oratory  was  due  as  much  to  moral  as  to  intellectual 
causes ;   and  he  set  himself  to  the  work  of  creating 

1  Quint,  xii.  2,  24-5.  2  ;^,-rf  ^ii.  2,  26-7. 

3  ibid.  xii.  2,  30. 


QUINTILIAN  241 

a  healthy  reaction.  He  had  fine  gifts  of  Hterary 
appreciation,  and  he  must  have  been  a  wonderful 
teacher  ;  he  was  also  a  thoroughly  good  man.  That 
he  failed  to  revive  the  eloquence  of  a  past  generation 
is  lamentably  true :  Pliny  was  his  pupil,  and  that 
is  evidence  enough.  But  his  criticisms  of  Latin 
poetry  and  prose  are  still  readable  and  helpful ;  and 
his  influence  for  good  on  the  generation  that  knew 
him  must  have  been  very  great.  Pliny  himself  is  as 
good  a  man  as  Quintilian,  and  there  were  no  doubt 
others  among  his  pupils.  One  name  has  a  curious 
association.  It  was  Juvenal  who  wrote  :  Maxima 
dehetur  jniero  reverentia  ^ — words  which  cover  all  the 
teaching  of  Quintilian' s  first  book,  and  recall  Quinti- 
lian's  insistence  that  at  school  the  master  holds  the 
parent's  place  and  should  remember  his  responsibili- 
ties. Juvenal  speaks  of  Quintilian  with  respect  and 
(so  far  as  dates  go)  may  well  have  been  his  pupil. 
Was  his  saeva  indignatio  sometimes  tempered  by 
memories  of  one  whose  spirit  was  kindlier  and  more 
human  in  its  sympathies  ? 

^  Juv.  xiv.  47. 


Hh 


CONCLUSION 

Quiktilian's  Institutio  oratoria  is  a  landmark  in 
the  history  of  Roman  education  :  it  is  the  culmina- 
tion of  a  long  development,  and  it  had  no  successor. 
The  later  schools  of  the  Roman  Empire  produced 
text-books  of  grammar  and  rhetoric  in  abun- 
dance ;  but  no  teacher  was  found  who  could  speak 
with  Quintilian's  authority,  no  orator  sufficiently 
interested  in  the  theor}^  of  his  art  to  produce  a  second 
de  Oratore.  There  is  only  one  possible  exception. 
So  much  ink  has  been  spilt  in  the  discussion  about 
the  date  and  purpose  of  the  Dialogue  on  Orators  that 
one  hesitates  to  name  Tacitus  as  a  critic  of  the 
Institutio  oratoria.  The  two  works  are  certainly 
connected  in  some  way  or  other :  no  one  who  has 
read  them  both  can  doubt  the  fact.  But  what  is  the 
connexion  ?  Was  Tacitus  a  pupil  of  Quintilian, 
writing  a  criticism  of  his  master's  teaching  years 
before  the  Institutio  oratoria  was  published  ?  Or  is 
the  Dialogue  on  Orators  a  polemical  work,  pubUshed 
shortly  after  the  Institutio,  in  answer  to  Quintilian's 
defence  of  Ciceronianism  ?  The  question  belongs 
properly  to  the  history  of  Latin  literatm^e,^  but  a 

^  See  especially  Gudeman's  Prolegomena  to  his  second  edition, 
where  he  defends  the  earlier  date  against  most  recent  German 
scholars  ;  Schanz,  ii.  2,  p.  294,  who  takes  the  opposite  view  ;  and 
Dienel  in  Wiener  Studien,  vol.  xxxvii  (1915),  pp.  239-71, 


CONCLUSION  243 

word  may  be  said  as  to  the  criticisms  on  contem- 
porary education  which  the  dialogue  contains. 

The  two  main  personages  in  the  dialogue,  at  least 
in  its  present  fragmentary  form,  are  Marcus  Aper, 
the  orator  from  Gaul,  and  Vipstanus  Messalla.  Aper's 
portrait,  as  drawn  by  Tacitus,  is  the  portrait  of  a 
typical  self-made  man ;  proud  of  his  success,  frankly 
utilitarian  in  his  principles  and  impatient  of  every- 
thing old-fashioned.  ^  His  principal  speech  is  a  brilliant 
rhetorical  apologia  for  the  rhetoric  of  the  Silver  Age.- 
Messalla,  Aper's  rival  in  the  forum,  takes  the 
opposite  point  of  view.  Orator}^  in  the  Ciceronian 
sense  of  the  word,  he  maintains,  is  dead :  ^  and  he 
analyses  the  causes  of  its  disappearance.  The  old 
Roman  tradition  of  home  education  has  gone,  and 
with  it  has  gone  all  that  was  best  in  the  Roman 
character.*  Nowadays,  the  child  is  brought  up  in 
the  midst  of  slaves,  is  spoilt  by  its  parents  in  the 
nm'sery,  and  learns  to  talk  about  horses  and  gladiators 
and  actors  before  it  has  learnt  anything  else.^  And 
at  school  things  are  even  worse  :  bad  companions, 
weak  masters,  the  wrong  kind  of  lessons.  In  Cicero's 
day  men  studied  history,  philosophy,  law,  music, 
geometry,  grammar,  all  the  liberal  arts  :  nowadays  it 
is  rhetoric,  and  nothing  but  rhetoric.^  And  rhetoric 
without  a  good  general  education  will  never  produce 
an  orator  :  for  the  orator  must  be  able  to  talk  well  on 
any  subject,  before  any  audience.    How  can  a  man 

1  Tac.  Dial.  2,  7-10.  ^  .-^^-^  i6_23.  3  ;-ft,v/.  25-6. 

^  ibid.  28  ;  see  above,  p.  14. 

5  ibid.  29.  ^  ibid.  29-30. 


244  CONCLUSION 

speak  about  justice  and  honour  and  virtue  and  mercy 
unless  he  has  studied  philosophy  ?  How  can  he  build 
an  argument  unless  he  has  studied  dialectics  ?  How 
can  he  discuss  a  legal  case  unless  he  has  studied 
law?  ^ 

At  this  point  Messalla  is  interrupted  for  a  moment 
and  asked  to  explain  in  greater  detail  the  kind  of 
education  he  thinks  suitable  for  an  orator.  In  reply, 
he  begins  by  describing  the  old  Roman  tirocinium 
fori,  and  the  practical  experience  of  an  orator's  work 
which  it  gave  the  student.  In  proof  of  his  point  he 
cites  the  names  of  four  great  orators — Ch-assus, 
Caesar,  Pollio,  and  Calvus — who  had  won  fame  for 
themselves  when  barely  twenty  years  old.^  '  But 
nowadays  ',  he  goes  on,  using  a  phrase  borrowed  from 
the  ceremonial  tirocinimn  fori  :  '  our  young  men  are 
brought  {deducuntur)  to  the  schools  of  rhetoric, 
which  existed  shortly  before  Cicero's  day,  but  were 
closed  by  the  censors  Domitius  and  Crassus,  in 
Cicero's  phrase,  as  "  schools  of  impudence  ".  They 
are  brought,  I  say,  to  these  schools,  where  it  would 
be  hard  to  say  whether  the  place  itself  or  the  students 
they  meet  or  the  kind  of  lessons  they  learn  do  them 
more  harm.'  ^  And  he  then  launches  out  in  a  general 
attack  on  the  schools  of  rhetoric,  which  breaks  off 
suddenly  in  our  mutilated  text.  What  follows  is  an 
unsolved  problem  of  literary  criticism.  There  is 
a  passage  on  the  connexion  between  political  dis- 
turbances and  political  oratory  ;  ^    another  on  the 

1  Tac.  Dial.  31-2.  2  if^i^  34 

3  ibid.  35.  ^  ibid.  36-7. 


CONCLUSION  245 

contrast  between  the  forum  in  Cicero's  day  and  the 
forum  under  the  Empire  :  ^  and  a  final  passage  on 
the  change  which  good  government  has  made  in  the 
Roman  world.-  There  are  now  no  orators,  such  is 
the  conclusion  to  which  Tacitus  comes,  because 
universal  peace  has  made  men  happy,  and  has 
deprived  the  orators  of  their  vocation. 

Much  of  what  Tacitus  says  is  too  rhetorical  to  be 
useful  as  evidence :  but  he  is  plainly  right  in  his 
main  contention.  Political  oratory  as  Cicero  knew 
it  was  dead,  and  the  Empire  was  responsible  for  its 
disappearance.  But  Messalla's  speech  raises  a 
further  question.  How  far  was  it  possible  to  reconcile 
the  ideals  of  Cicero's  de  Oratore  with  the  changed 
conditions  of  Roman  society  ?  Quintilian's  Institutio 
oratoria  was  a  deliberate  attempt  to  revive  the 
Ciceronian  ideal,  in  spite  of  all  obstacles  and  in  the 
face  of  discouragement.  '  Let  us  strive  after  the 
best ',  such  is  Quintilian's  last  word  of  advice,  '  and 
so  doing  we  shall  either  reach  the  heights  or  at  least 
see  many  beneath  us.'  ^  Tacitus  ends  his  Dialogue  on 
Orators  with  a  parting  shot,  which  has  all  the  appear- 
ance of  being  written  in  answer  to  this  idealism. 

*  Believe  me,  my  good  and  (as  far  as  we  need  it  nowadays) 
eloquent  friends,  if  you  had  been  born  in  the  good  old  days  and 
they  whom  we  admire  had  been  born  in  this  generation,  or  if 
some  God  had  changed  your  lives  and  ages,  you  would  have 
lacked  none  of  their  fame  and  glory  as  orators  and  they  would 
have  lacked  none  of  your  good  sense  and  moderation.  But  since 
no  man  can  have  at  one  and  the  same  time  great  fame  and  great 

1  ibid.  38-40.  2  ibid.  40-1. 

3  Quint,  xii.  11,  30. 


246  CONCLUSION 

peace,  let  each  man  enjoy  the  good  things  of  his  age  \vithout 
reproach  to  the  other.'  ^ 

Whether  written  before  or  after  the  Institutio 
oratoria,  these  words  hint  pretty  plainly  what 
Tacitus  really  thought  of  Quintilian's  Ciceronianism. 
Which  of  the  two  was  right,  the  historian  or  the 
schoolmaster  ?  That  is  a  problem  which  no  student 
of  Roman  history  can  afford  to  ignore. 

For  the  type  of  education  which  Quintilian 
describes  in  his  Institutio  oratoria  remained  for 
centuries  the  sole  education  known  to  the  Graeco- 
Roman  world.  Poor  men  continued  to  send  their 
children  to  the  elementary  schools  of  the  ludi 
magister  and  the  calmdator ;  but  the  rich,  the 
Avell-to-do  and  the  professional  classes  sent  their  sons 
to  the  schools  of  literature  and  rhetoric,  and  were 
content  with  the  '  liberal  arts '  of  the  ey/cuK-Xio? 
TTtttSeia.  *  The  education  of  the  ordinary  man '  : 
that  is  what  the  phrase  had  originally  meant,  and 
its  history  shows  that  the  '  encyclic  '  programme  of 
studies  was  well  adapted  for  its  purpose.  From  the 
days  of  Isocrates  and  Aristotle  to  the  fall  of  the 
Roman  Empire  no  other  form  of  education  was 
known  to  Europe  ;  and  when  the  Church  became  the 
inheritor  of  Graeco-Roman  civilization,  she  used  the 
artes  liberales  as  a  convenient  framework  for  the  new 
Christian  education  taught  in  her  schools.  So  long- 
lived  a  system  of  education  must  have  been 
substantially  good. 

Yet  the  defects  of  the  ey/cv/cXtos  TratSeia  are  plain 
1  Tac.  Dial.  41. 


CONCLUSION  247 

enough.  The  most  obvious  danger  was  that  it  tended 
to  become  a  purely  hterary  education,  with  faciHty 
in  rhetorical  composition  as  its  ideal  accomplishment. 
In  Greece,  where  the  national  tradition  of  education 
was  strong,  this  tendency  was  perhaps  less  marked, 
though  it  always  existed :  Hermagoras  is  a  type  of 
the  ey/cv/cXto9  TratSeta  at  its  worst  and  narrowest.  In 
Rome  the  tendency  to  subordinate  the  artes  liberales 
to  rhetoric  was  strong  from  the  first.  Cicero  fought 
against  it  in  his  de  Oratore  and  Hortensius  ;  but  the 
society  for  which  he  wi'ote  ceased  to  exist  within 
a  generation  of  his  death,  and  rhetoric  carried  all 
before  it  under  the  early  Empire.  Seneca  is  a  born 
rhetorician,  in  spite  of  his  philosophy,  and  Quintilian 
is  not  wholly  free  from  the  prevailing  fashion :  his 
Institutio  oratoria  makes  rhetoric  the  centre  of 
education  to  a  degree  which  Cicero  would  never  have 
tolerated.  And  the  cult  of  rhetoric  for  its  own  sake 
was  all  the  more  dangerous  in  a  society  which  had 
lost  the  tradition  of  political  oratory.  The  talent 
which  was  devoted  to  the  forum  and  the  senate- 
house  in  Cicero's  day  had  to  content  itself  under  the 
Empire  with  the  professional  law-courts  or  with  an 
occasional  oration  before  the  senate  in  artificial 
surroundings.  Oratory  was  soon  perverted  into 
rhetoric  under  these  new  conditions.  Quintilian' s 
cure  for  the  trouble  was  a  wide  literary  education 
in  Greek  and  Latin  ;  and  no  doubt  he  was  right. 
In  the  old  days  oratory  had  formed  itself  under  the 
stress  of  circumstances,  and  the  speaker  soon  learnt 
to  adapt  his  art  to  the  requirements  of  his  audience. 


248  CONCLUSION 

Now  the  audience  was  as  often  as  not  an  artificial 
gathering  of  friends  and  critics,  and  the  purpose  of 
the  new  rhetoric  was  no  longer  to  persuade,  but  to 
please.  In  other  words  the  culture  of  Quintilian's 
contemporaries  was  a  literary  product,  carefully 
formed  on  the  best  literary  models,  and  content  to  be 
judged  by  literary  standards  :  Cicero's  doctus  orator 
has  become  a  scholasticus. 

This  narrowness  of  the  eyKu/<-Xtos  TratSeia  is  shown 
in  another  aspect  of  Roman  education.  Greek 
tradition  had  always  regarded  the  education  of  mind 
and  body  as  two  parts  of  one  whole  :  fiova-LK-q  and 
yvixvaa-TLK-q  are  co-relative  terms.  Rome  never  adopted 
this  characteristically  Greek  ideal :  the  artes  liberales 
had  no  connexion  with  bodily  health.  The  old 
Roman  tradition  of  healthy  open-air  exercise  and  of 
work  on  the  farm  was  a  thing  of  the  past  long  before 
the  advent  of  the  Empire.  Varro  contrasts  his  own 
open-air  life  in  the  fields  with  more  modern  fashions,^ 
and  Horace's  elaborate  praises  of  Roman  vigour  and 
manhood  are  definitely  an  attempt  to  revive  a 
forgotten  past.  Augustus  was  anxious  to  encourage 
Roman  traditions  of  sport  and  physical  exercise. 
He  revived  the  lusus  Troiae,  in  which  young  boys 
of  noble  family  gave  a  public  display  of  horseman- 
ship and  military  prowess  ;  -  and  he  encouraged 
Virgil  to  describe  in  his  Aeneid  the  sports  and  con- 
tests of  early  Italian  tradition.'^    But  the  current  of 

^  Varro,  apud  Non.  108,  24  ;   sec  above,  p.  18. 

2  Suet.  Oct.  43  ;  Barbagallo,  p.  26. 

3  Virg.  Aen.  v.  548-603  ;   vii.  160->5  ;  ix.  603-20  ;   Norden  in 
Neue  Jahrb.  fiir  d.  kl.  Alt.  vol.  vii  (1901),  p.  263. 


CONCLUSION  249 

fashion  proved  too  strong  for  such  artificial  revivals 
of  the  past.  The  lusus  Troiae  came  to  an  undignified 
end  after  ten  or  fifteen  years,  owing  to  the  protests 
of  Asinius  PoUio,  whose  grandson  had  broken  his  leg 
in  one  of  the  manoeuvres  ;  ^  and  half  a  century  later 
Seneca  speaks  of  the  old  Itahan  tradition  as  definitely 
belonging  to  the  past.^ 

In  Rome,  at  least,  Greek  athletics  became  fashion- 
able under  the  Empire.  Varro  complains  that  every 
Roman  villa  must  nowadays  have  its  gymnasium  ;  ^ 
and  Strabo  describes  Greek  athletics  on  the  Campus 
Martins  as  one  of  the  sights  of  Rome.*  But  the 
palaestra  never  got  public  recognition  in  Rome  as 
part  of  a  '  hberal '  education  :  when  we  hear  of  it 
at  all,  it  is  usually  in  terms  of  reproach  and  even 
disgust.  Cicero  was  openly  contemptuous  of  Greek 
athletics  ;  ^  Seneca  and  Lucan  shared  his  contempt ;  ® 
and  the  elder  PHny  hated  Greek  athletes  almost  as 
much  as  he  hated  Greek  doctors.'  Tacitus  even  goes 
so  far  as  to  make  Nero's  interest  in  the  palaestra 
a  main  charge  in  his  attack  on  that  Emperor's 
Government ;  ®  and  it  is  significant  that  Caligula, 
Nero,  and  Domitian  were  the  three  Emperors  most 
favourable  to  the  new  fashion.^    Nerva  reverted  to 

1  Suet.  Oct.  43.  -  Sen.  Epp.  88,  19. 

3  Varro,  de  Re  rust.  ii.  1,  1  ;   Friedlaender,  ii,  p.  150  (ii,  p.  492). 

4  Strabo,  v,  p.  236. 

5  Cic.  de  Rep.  iv.  4  ;   Tusc.  iv.  70  ;  de  Or.  ii.  21  :  de  Off.  i.  130. 

6  Sen.  Epp.  15,  1-4  ;   88,  18  ;  Lucan,  Phars.  vii.  270. 

7  Pliny,  N.  H.  xxix.  1-28  ;  xxxv.  168. 

8  Tac.  Ann.  xiv.  15,  20,  21. 

^  Friedlaender,  ii,  pp.  145  foil,  (ii,  p.  484). 
3029  I  I 


250  CONCLUSION 

Roman  traditions  on  this  point,  and  a  story  told  by 
the  younger  PHny  is  characteristic  of  Roman  opinion. 
Some  unnamed  benefactor  had  bequeathed  a  sum  of 
money  to  the  town  of  Vienne  in  Gaul  to  found  an 
annual  contest  in  Greek  athletics.  Trebonius  Rufus, 
one  of  Nerva's  friends,  aboUshed  the  institution  as 
a  pubHc  nuisance,  and  an  appeal  was  made  to  the 
Emperor  against  his  action.  Nerva  upheld  his 
friend's  decision,  and  Phny  adds  that  one  of  the 
Emperor's  most  influential  counsellors  made  the 
remark :  '  I  wish  we  could  abolish  the  public  games 
here  in  Rome.'  ^ 

Such  unanimity  of  pubhc  opinion  can  only  be 
explained  by  the  existence  of  very  real  abuses.  All 
the  writers  under  the  Empire  point  to  the  palaestra 
as  the  cause  of  grave  moral  scandals,  and  Plutarch, 
lover  of  all  things  Greek  though  he  was,  admits  the 
charge.^  And  he  adds  a  second  criticism  which  is 
worth  noting  for  the  light  it  throws  on  Graeco-Roman 
civilization.  The  curse  of  professionalism  had  long 
since  come  upon  Greek  athletics,  and  Roman  theorists 
were  probably  right  in  maintaining  that  the  type  of 
athletics  taught  in  the  palaestra  developed  the 
qualities  of  a  professional  athlete,  but  did  not  train 
the  body  for  hard  work.^  That  is  a  criticism  which 
might  also  be  made  of  the  Greek  schools  of  rhetoric. 
They  taught  men  to  declaim,  but  did  not  make  them 
orators  :  or,  as  Seneca  puts  it,  they  educated  '  for 
the  class-room,  not  for  life  '.^    Rome  was  the  inheritor 

^  Plin.  Epp.  iv.  22.  ^  Plut.  Quaest.  Rom.  40. 

3  Plut.  loc.  cit.  ^  Sen.  Epp.  106,  12. 


CONCLUSION  251 

of  Greek  civilization,  but  the  civilization  which  she 
inherited  had  worn  thin  in  the  course  of  centuries. 

And  the  process  of  wearing  thin  did  not  end  with 
the  fusion  of  Greek  and  Roman  ideals  in  a  Graeco- 
Roman  culture.  It  was  stayed  for  a  century  or  so 
by  the  new  impulse  which  the  first  contact  of  Greece 
and  Rome  gave  to  ancient  thought ;  but  it  began 
again  under  the  Empire,  and  continued  steadily  for 
the  next  four  or  five  centuries.  Cicero,  Seneca, 
Quintilian,  Fronto,  Ausonius  :  these  are  names  which 
suggest  the  successive  stages  of  a  gradual  decUne. 
They  are  not  the  only  names  which  might  be  cited. 
But  they  are  the  names  most  typical  of  their  age,  and 
they  are  the  names  of  men  who  owed  what  culture 
they  had  to  the  artes  liberales.  One  name  should 
perhaps  be  added  to  the  list :  Marcus  Aurelius,  the 
philosopher-Emperor.  But  the  personality  of  this 
'  Stoic  saint '  suggests  at  once  the  most  conspicuous 
want  in  all  Graeco-Roman  education.  Apart  from 
QuintiUan's  ideal  of  a  vir  bonus  dicendi  peritus — an 
ideal  which  might  mean  much  or  little,  and  which 
becomes  increasingly  vague  and  conventional  in  the 
writings  of  those  later  rhetoricians  who  quote  the 
phrase  at  all  ^ — the  schools  of  literature  and  rhetoric 
under  the  Empu-e  had  no  ideal  of  moral  excellence 
to  set  before  their  students  ;  for  the  lack  of  such  an 
ideal   they  failed   to  invigorate  the  ancient  world. 

^  Fronto,  ad  Ver.  ii.  1  (p.  121,  Naber) ;  Fortunatian,  Cassiodore, 
and  Isidore  (in  Halm.  Rhet.  Lat.  Min.  i,  p.  81  ;  ii,  pp.  495,  507)  ; 
Boeth.  Comm.  irtpl  IpiJ.,,  ii.  5, 11 ;  Lehnert  in  Philologus,  lix  (1900), 
p.  577. 


252  CONCLUSION 

The  old  Roman  traditions  of  civic  virtue  had  once 
proved  strong  enough  to  put  new  hfe  into  Greek 
civilization,  but  the  society  which  created  and 
fostered  those  traditions  had  long  since  passed  away. 
Much  the  same  had  happened  in  the  Greek  world, 
when  Alexander's  Empire  broke  down  the  barriers 
of  the  citj^-state.  Greek  Stoicism  with  its  austere 
conception  of  philosophy  had  then  supplied  the  need  : 
it  created  a  new  ideal  of  moral  excellence  when  the 
tradition  of  civic  virtue  failed.  Rome  produced  no 
philosophy  of  her  own,  and  was  to  the  end  distrustful 
of  Greek  philosophy.  Marcus  Aurelius  is  a  lonely 
figure  in  Roman  history,  because  he  had  the  courage 
to  believe  whole-heartedly  in  the  Greek  Stoic  ideal, 
and  found  in  that  ideal  an  inspiration  which  the 
aiies  liberates  could  never  have  given  him.  Yet  the 
philosopher-Emperor  has  remained  a  lonely  figure 
ever  since.  For  a  new  world  was  growing  up  around 
him  of  which  he  was  almost  unaware,  and  that  world 
found  in  the  Christian  faith  a  more  satisfying  ideal. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

(Note.— All  works  included  in  this  Bibliograph}-  are  quoted 
only  by  the  author's  name  in  the  foot-notes,  with  the  addition 
of  a  short  title  where  there  are  two  or  more  works  by  the  same 
author.) 

Angebmann,  0.     De  Aristotele  rhetorum  audore,  Diss.,  Leipzig, 

1904. 
Appel,  B.    Das  Bildungs-  und  Erziehungsideal  QuintiUam  nach 

der  Institutio  Oratoria,  Donauworth,  Auer,  1914. 
Arnim,  H.  von.     Leben  und  Werke  des  Dio  von  Prusa,  Berlin, 

Weidmann,  1898. 
Barbagallo,  C.     Lo  stato  e  V  isiruzione  pubbUca  nelV  Impero 

Romano,  Catania,  Battiato,  1911. 
Beltrami,  A.    '  La  composizione  del  libro  duodecimo  di  Quinti- 

liano '   in  Stvdi   italiani   di  fil.   classica,   vol.   xix   (1912), 

pp.  63-72. 
Blumner,   H.     '  Die  romischen  Privataltertiimer '.    {Handbuch 

Iwan-Miiller,  iv.  2,  2),  Miinchen,  Beck,  1911. 
BoissiER,  G.    '  Comment  les  Remains  ont  connu  I'humanite  '  in 

Revue  des  deux  mondes  (Dec.  1906-Jan.  1907). 
Tacite  (3rd  edition),  Paris,  Hachctte,  1908. 
La  Fin  du  Paganisme,  2  vols.,  Paris,  Hachette,  1894. 
Burner,  J.     De  Quintiliani  Institutionis  Oratoriae  Dispositione 

(Pars  Prior), ^  Diss.,  Leipzig,  1911. 
BoRNECQUE,  H.     Les  Declamations  et  les  declamateurs  d'apres 

Seneque  h  Pere,  Lille,  Siege  de  I'Universite,  1902. 
Bremer,  F.     Die  Rechtslehrer  und  Rechtsschulen  im  romischen 

Kaiserreich,  Berlin,  Guttentag,  1868. 
Brock,  D.    Studies  in  Fronto  and  his  Age,  Cambridge,  University 

Press,  1911. 
Christ,  W.    Geschichte  der  griechischen  Literatur,  2  vols.  {Hand- 
buch Iwan-Miiller,  vii,  6tli  edition),  Miinchen,  Beck,  1912-13. 
CoLSON,   F.   H.     M.   Fabii  Quintiliani  Institutionis  Oratoriae, 

Liber  I.    Edited  with  Introduction  and  Commentary,  Cam- 
bridge, University  Press,  1924. 

^  The  second  part  was  never  published. 


254  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

CoMPABETTi,  D.     Vergil  in  the  Middle  Ages  (Eng.  tr.),  London, 

Swan  &  Sonnenschein,  1895. 
Daremberg-Saglio.      Dictionnaire   des   Antiquites    grecques    et 

romaines,  10  vols.,  Paris,  Hachette,  1887-1919. 
DiENEL,  R.     '  Quint'lian  und  der  Rednerdialog  des  Tacitus  '  in 

Wiener  Studien,  vol.  xxxvii  (1915),  pp.  239-71. 
Dill,  S.     Roman  Society  from  Nero  to  M.  Aurelius,  London, 

Macmillan,  1904. 
FiEBViLLE,  C.     M.  F.  Quintiliani  de  Institutione  Oratoria  liber 

primus  (with  Prolegomena),  Paris,  Firmin-Didot,  1890. 
Frank,    Tenney.      Vergil :    a   Biography,    Oxford,  Blackwell, 

1922. 
Freeman,  K.     Schools  of  Hellas  from  600  to  300  B.  c,  London, 

Macmillan,  1907. 
Friedlaender,  L.    Darstellungen  aus  der  Sittengeschichte  Roms  ^ 

(9th  edition,  revised  by  Georg  Wissowa),  4  vols.,  Leipzig, 

Hirzel,  1919. 
Gardthattsen,  v.     Augustus  und  seine  Zeit,  3  vols.,  Leipzig, 

Teubner,  1891-1904. 
Gerhausser,    W.      Der    Protreptikos    des    Poseidonios,    Diss, 

Heidelberg,  1912. 
GiRARD,  P.    L'   ducation  athenienne  au  V  et  au  7F*  siecle  avant 

J.-C.  (2nd  edition),  Paris,  Hachette,  1891. 
Grasberger,    L.      Erziehung   und    Unterricht    im    klassischen 

Altertum,  4  vols.,  Wiirzburg,  vStahel,  1864-81. 
Gudeman,  a.     p.  Cornelii  Taciti  Dialogus  de  Oratoribus,  mit 

Prolegomena,    &c.     (2nd    edition,    in    German),    Leipzig, 

Teubner,  1914. 
HiRZEL,  R.    Der  Dialog:  ein  literarhistorischer  Versuch,  2  vols., 

Leipzig,  Hirzel,  1895. 
JuLLiEN,  E.    Les  Professeurs  de  litterature  dans  Vancienne  Rome 

et  leur  enseignement  depuis  Voriginejusqu'a  la  mort  d'Auguste, 

Paris,  Leroux,  1885. 
Kohl,    R.      De    scholasticarum    declamationum    argumentis    ex 

historia  petitis,  Diss.,  Paderboni,  1915. 
Kroll,  W.  '  Studien  iiber  Ciceros  Schrift  de  Oratore  '  in  Rhein. 

Mus.,  vol.  Iviii  (1903),  pp.  552-97. 

1  I  have  added  (in  brackets)  the  references  according  to  the 
eighth  edition  (1910). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  255 

Laurand,  L.    De  M.  Tullii  Ciceronis  studiis  rhdoricis,  Thesis, 

Paris,  Picard,  1907. 
Leo,  Fb.     '  Quintilians  Ideine  Deklamationen  ',  in  Nachrichten 

der  Gott.  Ges.  d.  Wiss.,  ph.-hist.  Klasse  (1912),  pp.  109-21. 
Loth,  J.     Die  pddagogischen  Gedanken  der  institutio  oratoria 

Quintilians,  Diss.,  Leipzig,  1898. 
Marquabdt-Maf.     Das  Privatleben  der  Romer  {Handbuch  der 

rom.  AUertilmer,  Bd.  7),  (2nd  edition),  Leipzig,  1886. 
Marx,  Fr.    Incerti  auctoris  ad  Herennium  libri  IV  (edidit  cum 

prolegomenis),  Leipzig,  Teubner,  1894. 
MiJLLER,  I.  von.     Die  griechischen  Privataltertiimer  {Handbtich 

Iwan-Miiller,  v.  1,  2),  Miinchen,  Beck,  1893. 
Nettleship,  H.    Essays  in  Latin  Literature  (First  Series),  Oxford, 

Clarendon  Press,  1885. 
Lectures  and  Essays  (Second  Series),  Oxford,  Clarendon  Press, 

1895. 
NoRDEN,  E.  Die antike Kunstprosa,  2  vols.,  Leipzig, Teubner,  1898. 
Patjly-Wissowa.     Real-Encyclopddie  der  dassischen  AltertumS' 

ivissenschaft  (in  progress),  Stuttgart,  Metzler,  1894. 
Peter,  H.   Die  geschichtliche  Literafur  iiber  die  romische  Kaiserzeit 

bis  Theodosius  I.  und  ihre  Quellen,  2  vols.,  Leipzig,  Teubner, 

1897. 
Praechter,  Karl.     Die  griechisch-romische  Popularphilosophis 

und  die  Erziehung,  Programm,  Bruchsal,  1886. 
Radermacher,  L.     '  Eine  Schrift  iiber  den  Redner  als  Quelle 

Quintilians  und  Ciceros  '  in  Rhein.  Mus.,  vol.  liv  (1899), 

pp.  285-92. 
Raxjbenheimer,  H.     Quintilianus  quae  debere  videatur  Stoicis 

popularibusque  qui  dicuntur  philosophis,  Diss.,  Wiirzburg, 

1911. 
Ritter,  C.    Die  quintilianischen  DeUamaUonen,  Tiibingen,  Mohr, 

1881. 
RoHDE,  E.     Der  griechische  Roman  und   seine    Vorldufer  (3rd 

edition),  Leipzig,  Breitkopf  und  Hartel,  1914. 
Sandys,   J.     A   History  of  Classical  Scholarship,   vol.  i  (2nd 

edition),  Cambridge,  University  Press,  1906. 
ScALA,  R.  von.     Die  Studien  des  Polybios,  vol.  i,^  Stuttgart, 

Kohlhammer,  1890. 

^  Vol.  ii  was  never  published. 


256  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

ScHANZ,  M.    Geschichte  der  romischen  Literatur,  6  vols.  {Handbuch 

Iivan-Muller,  viii,  3rd  edition),  Miinchen,  Beck,  1907-19. 
KcHMEKEL,   A.     Die  Philosophie   der  mittleren  Stoa   in  ihrem 

geschichtlichen  Zusammenkange,  Berlin,  Weidmann,  1892. 
ScHNEiDEWiN,  M.    Die antike Humanitdt,  Berlin,  Weidmann,  1897. 
Sehlmeyer,  Fr.    Beziehungen  zwischen  Quintilians  Institutiones 

Oratoriae  utid  Ciceros  rhetorischen  Schriften,  Diss.,  Miinster- 

i-W.,  1912. 
Hprenger,  J.    Quaestiones  in  rhetorum  Romanorum  declamationes 

iuridicae,  Diss.,  Halle,  1911. 
8USEMIHL,    Fr.      Geschichte   der   griechischen   Literatur   in   der 

Alexandrinerzeit,  2  vols.,  Leipzig,  Teubner,  1891. 
Teuffel,  W.     Geschichte  der  romischen  Literatur,  3  vols.  (6th 

edition),  Leipzig,  Teubner,  1910-16. 
Thiele,  G.    Hermagoras  :  ein  Beitrag  zur  Geschichte  der  Rhetorik, 

Strassburg,  Trixbncr,  1893. 
VoLKMANN,  R.    Die  Rhetorik  der  Griechen  und  der  Romer  {Hand- 
buch Iivan-Muller,  ii.  3,  3rd  edition),  Miinchen,  Beck,  1901. 
Walden,  J.    The  Universities  of  Ancient  Greece,  London,  Rout- 
ledge,  1913. 
Waltz,  R.    Vie  de  Seneque,  Paris,  Perrin,  1909. 
Warde  Fowler,  W.     Social  Life  at  Rome  in  the  Age  of  Cicero, 

London,  Macmillan,  1909. 
Roman  Essays  and  Lnterpretaiions,  Oxford,  Clarendon  Press, 

1920. 
Wilamo>vitz-Moellendorff,  U.  von.    '  Asianismus  und  Atticis- 

mus  '  in  Hermes,  vol.  xxxv  (1900),  pp.  1-52. 
Plalon  :   Lebcn  und  Werke,  Berlin,  Weidmann,  1919. 
WiLKiNS,  A.     Roman  Education,  Cambridge,  University  Press, 

1905. 
Willmann,  0.     '  Aiistoteles  als  Padagog  und  Didaktiker '  {Die 

grossen  Erzieher,  vol.  ii),  Berlin,  Reuther-Reichard,  1909. 
Wormser,  G.    '  Le  Dialogue  des  Orateurs  et  I'lnstitutio  Oratoria ' 

in  Revue  de  Philologie,  vol.  xxxvi  (1912),  pp.  179-89. 
Zeller,   E.     Die  Philosophie  der  Griechen,  vol.  iii,   1,   2   (4th 

edition),  Leipzig,  Reisland,  1903-9. 
ZiEBARTH,  E.    Aus  dcM  gricchischen  Schulwesen  :   Eudemos  von 

Milet  und  Verwandtes  (2nd  edition),  Leipzig,  Teubner,  1914. 
ZiELiNSKi,  Th.    Cicero  im  Wandel  der  Jahrhunderte  (3rd  edition), 

Leipzig,  Teubner,  1912. 


I.    INDEX  RERUM 


Age  for  school-attendance,  25  f.,  64, 

80,  96,  143,  180  f.,  190,  192,  195  f., 

207. 
Analogist  theory  of  criticism,  36  f., 

126. 
ars,  84,  88  f.,  147,  153,  157,  185. 
artes  liberales,   84   f.,    119,    152   f., 

178  f.,  246  f. 
Astronomy,  84,  147,  179. 
Athletics,  18,  20,  25  f.,  41,  54  f.,  87, 

179,  248  f. 

calculator,  92,  246. 
causae,  99,  164  f. 
cauMdicvs,  137,  187. 
chria,  200  f. 
colores,  158  f.,  164. 
controversiae,  99,  163  f.,  202,  206, 
208. 

Dancing,  55,  88,  151. 
dedamatio,  138,  164  f.,  208  f. 
Declamation,  64, 74, 83, 164  f.,  204- 

18. 
Dialectics,  39,  47  f.,  53  f.,  72  f.,  84  f., 

112  f.,  239,  244. 
divisio,  212,  217. 
doctus,  112  f.,  119,  132,  139,  148, 

186,  248. 
Drawing,  84,  147. 

f'yKmXios  TrmBfin,  85  f„   145  f.,   152, 

177  f.,  193,  220,  246  f. 
Elocution,  95,  197. 
Ethics,  47,  50,  54,  101,  100,  112  f., 

174  f.,  230-^1,  251  f. 
exempla,  67,  104  f.,  172. 

fifiitio,  208,  212,  215. 

geometres,  91. 

Geometry,  18,  84,  147,  149,  196  f. 

Grammar,  36,  92,  146,  198,  224. 

grammatice,  91,  225. 

grammaticus,  31  f.,  84,  87,  92  f.,  103, 

126,  132,  143,  150,  153  f.,  193  f., 

220. 


yp<iH^ari(TT!]i,  84,  87. 

Greek  language,  22  f.,  59  f.,  93,  141, 

190  f.,  197  f.,  227,  2.33. 
Greek  literature,  34  f.,  69,  93  f.,  136, 

154,  197  f.,  219,  225  f. 
Greek    theories    of    education,    11, 

18  f.,  22-33,  46-58,  71  f.,  84-92, 

113  f.,  145  f.,  193,  199,  202  f., 

232  f.,  246  f. 

yv/jivnaTiKt:,  25,  248. 

gymnasion,  19,  239. 

History,  20,  44  f.,  67  f.,  92,  102-8, 

125,  127,  153,  171  f.,  198  f.,  201, 

222  f 
humanitas,  57  f.,  82,   101,   118  f., 

123  f.,  142,  145,  178  f.,  189,  219, 

225  f. 

institutio,  57,  186  (v.  puerilis). 
inventio,  71,  221  f. 
iurisperitus,  70,  138. 

KpiTlKOS,  87. 

Latini  rhetores,  61  f.,  105. 

Law,  20,  23  f.,  70,  108  f.,  137  f.,  147, 

163,  222  f. 
lex  Cincia,  139  f. 
Uberalis,  85,  88,  178. 
Literature,  25,  34  f.,  69,  84  f.,  92  f., 

103  f.,  126, 136, 153  f.,  197  f.,  220, 

225  f. 
litterator,  84,  92. 
litteratura,  91. 
litteratus,  91. 
loci  communes,  202,  217. 
Logic  (v.  Dialectics). 
ludi  magister,  84,  92,  189. 

Mathematics,  18,  50,  84,  90  f.,  147, 

149,  193. 
vmthesis,  91. 

Medicine,  84,  137,  147,  149,  249. 
Metaphysics,  48  f.,  53  f.,  72  f. 
mos  maionmi,  22,  57,  01. 
fxovaiKoi,  87,  248. 


258 


I.     INDEX  RERUM 


Music,  25,  65  f.,  87  f.,  90,  147,  193, 

196  f. 
musice,  91. 

narratio,  200  f. 

orator,  112  f.,  119,  132,  139,  186  f. 

paedagogua,  190. 
TTiuSeia,  50  f.,  57. 
naidoTpi^Tji,  87. 

palaestra,  54,  249  f. 

patria  potestas,  12  f.,  17. 

(l)i\6ao(f>oi,  49  f.,  91,  113,  119. 

Philosophy,  37,  39  f.,  46  f.,  53  f., 
69-77,  112-18,  124,  126  f.,  129, 
142,  147,  151,  173-9,  222,  232-40. 

Physics,  18, 54, 90, 101, 112  f.,  146  f., 

197  239. 

Poetry,  25,  52,  69,  90,  92,  94  f., 

153  f.,  197  f. 
pragmatiais,  110,  137,  138. 
progymnasinata,  200  f. 
Prose-authors,  52,  198  f.,  201. 
Psychology,  101,  106,  112  f.,  170, 

214  f.,  239. 
puerilis  imtitutio,  82,  90,  96,  101, 

149,  178,  189,  219. 

quaestio,  99,  165. 


Religion,  16,  17,  251  f. 

rhetor,  91,  95,  145,  158-79,  193  f., 
199  f.   220. 

Rhetoric,  37  f.,  46  f.,  53,  59-78, 
97  f.,  104  f.,  124-34,  140  f.,  145, 
149,  158-79,  197-218,  243  f. 

rhetorice,  91,  188. 

schdasticus,  164,  166,  171,  216,  226, 

248. 
Schools,  28  f.,  36  f.,  191  f. 
sententia,  133,  158  f.,  164,  170,  200, 

205  f. 
Slaves,  19  f.,  27,  31  f.,  137,  140  f., 

149,  157,  192,  243. 
suasio,  166. 
suasoriae,  99,  160,  162,  166,  170  f., 

202. 


7c'x«"?,  88  f. 

T()(i>o\oyLa,  99  f. 

thesis,  116  f.,  163,  165,  239. 
tirocinium  fori,  16,  64  f.,  132  f.,  244. 
toga  virilis,  16,  64,  132. 

vnodtcTiS,  116,  165. 


ihrw^,  98. 


II.    INDEX  NOMINUM 


Academy,  39,  47  f.,  54,  72  f.,  76, 

114  f.,  117,  239. 
Aelius  Stilo,  37,  69,  72,  108. 
Aemilius  Paulus,  15,  38,  41,  46,  83. 
Aeschines,  51,  228  f. 
Aeschylus,  103,  228. 
Albucius  Silo,  167. 
Annaeus  Cornutus,  176  f. 
Antiochus  (of  Ascalon),  76  f.,  81, 

114  f. 
Antonius  (the  orator),  65,  69,  96, 

102,  109  f.,  112,  118,  121  f. 
Antonius  Gnipho,  93,  101. 
Aper  (M.),  134,  142  f.,  243  f. 
Apollodorus  (of  Pergamon),  126  f., 

203. 
Apuleius,  92,  210. 
Arcesilaus,  53,  72  f.,  114, 
Archias,  69. 
Arellius  Fuscus,  167,  170,  175. 


Aristarchus,  36. 

Aristophanes,  48,  228. 

Aristotle,  23,  46,  48  f.,  53,  86  f.,  89, 

98  f.,  113,  202  f.,  246. 
Asia  Minor,  75  f.,  135. 
Athens,  26  f.,  76,  81,  93,  129  f.,  182. 
Atticus,  32,  64,  106,  123,  154. 
Augustus,  14,  125  f.,  132,  139,  169, 

182,  225. 
Ausonius,  180,  184,  251. 

Brutus,  123,  127,  161. 

Caecilius  Epirota,  154  f. 
Carneades,  39  f.,  53,  73,  114  f. 
Cassius  Severus,  168. 
Cato  (the  elder),  15,  19  f.,  26,  35, 

39  f.,  44  f.,  82  f.,  102,  108,  111  f., 

151,  230  f. 
Cato  (the  younger),  123. 


II.    INDEX  NOMINUM 


259 


Cestius  Pius,  156,  161,  167  f.,  170. 
Chrysippus,  87, 113, 190, 193,  233  f., 

237. 
Cicero  (M.  Tullius),  passim. 
Cicero  (M.,  the  younger),  80  f.,  83, 

129  f.,  168. 
Claudius,  132,  139  f.,  158. 
Columella,  150  f. 
Cornelia,  14,  38. 

Cornelius  Nepos,  90,  91,  108,  123. 
Cotta,  69,  114. 
Crassicius  (L.),  175. 
Crassus  (L.  Licinius),  61  f.,  69,  91, 

92-122  (passim),  244. 
Crates  of  Mallos,  35  f.,  39. 
Curtius  Nicias,  32. 
Cynics,  87. 

Demosthenes,  51,  125;  225,  228  f. 
Diodotus,  70,  74,  81,  126. 
Diogenes  Laertius,  72,  87. 
Domitian,  184,  249. 
Domitius  Aenobarbus,  61  f. 
Domitius  Afer,  142  f.,  180. 

Ennius,  17,  21,  35  f.,  69,  94  f.,  103, 

225. 
Epicureans,  39,  69,  124,  237,  239. 
Euripides,  52,  228. 

Fronto,  251. 

Galba,  181. 

Galen,  85,  150. 

GaUio,  V.  Junius, 

Gaul,  93,  142  f.,  243,  250. 

Gaul  (Cisalpine),  135,  143. 

Gellius,  38,  86,  92. 

Gorgias,  48,  113. 

Gracchus  (C),  14,  39,  59. 

Gracchus  (Ti.,  the  elder),  38. 

Gracchus  (Ti.,  the  younger),  54,  59, 


Herennius,  66  f . 

Hermagoras,    97    f.,    116    f.,    166, 

202  f.,  247. 
Herodotus,  225,  229. 
Hesiod,  94,  228. 
Homer,  52,  87,  94,  136,  198,  225, 

227  f. 
Horace,  15,  18,  33,  90,  92,  95,  124, 

136,  143,  154  f.,  158,  198,  248. 
Hortensius,  69,  118  f.,  123,  139. 


Isocrates,  46  f.,  228,  246. 
Italy,  35,  135,  143  f.,  151,  248  f. 

Julius  Caesar,  14,  32,  37,  77,  123  f., 

126,  244. 
Julius  Hyginus,  155,  158. 
Junius  Gallio,  167,  170,  176. 
Juvenal,  137,  143,  156  f.,  184,  241. 

Laelius,  54,  56. 

Latro,  V.  Porcius. 

Livius  Andronicus,  34  f.,  94  f.,  103. 

Livy,  89,  108,  124  f.,  158,  199,  201, 

225 
Lucan,  145,  156,  175,  249. 
Lucian,  52. 
Lucilius,  94,  103. 
Lucretius,  124,  218. 
LucuUus,  119,  123. 
Lutatius  Daphnis,  32. 

Macrobius,  54,  91. 
Maecenas,  169. 
Marcus  Aurelius,  251  f. 
Marius,  59  f.,  63,  67,  70,  124. 
Martial,  137,  142,  144,  149,  156,  184. 
Martianus  Capella,  86. 
Melissus  (C),  158. 
Menander,  94,  136,  198,  228. 
Messalla,  128,  139,  161,  169. 
Messalla  (Vipstanus),  243  f. 
Molo  (of  Rhodes),  76,  94. 

Naevius,  37,  95,  103,  225. 
Nero,  132,  140,  169,  249. 
Nerva,  250. 

Orbilius,  32  f.,  91,  93  f.,  103. 
Ovid,  131,  156,  158,  169  f. 

Palaemon  (Remmius),  157  f.,  176, 

181,  192,  198, 
Panaetius,  40  f.,  53  f.,  58,  77. 
Papirius  Fabianus,  175  f. 
Peripatetics,  39,  51,  117,  239, 
Persius,  135,  143,  145,  156  f„  175  f, 
Petronius,  140  f„  149,  154,  166,  192. 
Philo  (of  Larissa),  71,  74  f„  81, 114  f. 
Philodemus,  72. 
Philostratus,  182, 
Pindar,  228, 
Plato,  24  f„  46  f„  55,  72  f„  113  f., 

192,  225,  228  f.,  237. 
Plautus,  30,  37,  94,  225. 
Pliny  (the  elder),  146,  192,  203,  249. 


260 


II.    INDEX  NOMINUM 


Pliny  (the  younger),  15,  134,  136  f., 

144,  151,  166,  184,  226,  241. 
Plotius  Gallus,  63  f.,  96,  104  f.,  124, 

159,  163. 
Plutarch  (see  foot-notes). 
PoUio  (Asinius),  32,  127  f.,  139,  161, 

169,  244,  249. 
Polybius,  1,  22  f.,  41  f.,  52  f.,  58. 
Porcius  Latro,  142,  144,  167,  170, 

207. 
Posidonius,  77,  78,  88,  127,  177. 
Postumius  Albinus,  44  f. 

Quintilian,  ■passim. 

Rhodes,  76,  127. 

Sallust,  32,  60,  123  f.,  127,  161  f., 

225. 
Scaevola  Augur,  16,  64  f.,  70,  108  f., 

133   137. 
Scaevola  Pontifex,  64  f.,  110  f. 
Scipio  the  younger,  1,  19,  40  f.,  53  f., 

58,  68,  72,  80,  91,  122. 
Seneca  (the  elder),  63,  128  f.,  142, 

158-73,  176,  206. 
Seneca  (the  philosopher),  85,  87  f., 

125, 142  f.,  146, 153  f.,  169,  173  f., 

192,  235  f.,  240,  247  f. 
Servius  Sulpicius,  110  f.,  123. 
Sextius  (Q.),  175,  237. 


Sophists,  48  f . 

Sophocles,  228. 

Spain,  128,  142  f.,  167,  180  f.,  237. 

Sparta,  23,  26  f. 

Spurius  Carvilius,  29  f.,  36. 

Statius,  145. 

Stoics,  39,  53,  70  f.,  97  f.,  175  f., 

232  f.,  237,  239  f.,  251  f. 
Strabo,  85,  249. 
Suetonius  (see  foot-notes). 
Sulla,  32,  59,  75,  90,  123. 
Sulpicius  (the  orator),  59,  68,  69. 

Tacitus,  14,  62,  132  f.,  139  f.,  156, 
166,  168,  187,  192,  226,  242  f., 
249. 

Terence,  55,  94. 

Thucydides,  225,  229. 

Tiberius,  132,  158,  169. 

Valerius  Cato,  93. 

Valerius  Maximus,  172  f. 

Valerius  Probus,  155. 

Varro,  18,  66,  69,  84  f.,  123,  151, 

153,  248  f. 
Verrius  Flaccus,  158,  175,  182,  191. 
Vespasian,  135  f.,  181  f. 
Virgil,  18,  124  f.,  143,  154  f.,  198, 

225  248. 
Vitruvius,  84  f.,  145  f.,  153. 

Xenophon,  42,  55,  229. 


DATE  DUE 

im 

r-vf 

-  -  20(S 

\''--: 

Demco,  Inc.  38-293 

LIBRARY  RULES 

This  book  may  be  kept C^ L^. weekrf 

A  fine  oi  LA81.G8  ^  day 

books  or  ma        ' 


Two  boo      ll'lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^^         xry  at 
onetime.  3  9358  00036052  6 

Any  book  injured  or  lost  shall  be  paid  for  by  the 
person  to  -whom  it  is  charged. 

No    member    shall    transfer    his    right    to   use    the 
Library  to  any  other  person. 


L\81 

GS  Gwyntit    Aubrey,     1892- 

Roman    education    from    Cicero    to 
36052  Quintilian.     Oxford,     Clarendon    Press, 

1926. 

260    p*     23   cm* 


MENU  07    APR     89  1741689      NED^bo  26-147  31 


LA81.G8 


3  9358  00036052  6 


