~J 


1 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 
RIVERSIDE 


THE  SAGA  LIBRARY 

EDITED  BY 

WILLIAM  MORRIS 

AND 

EIRIKR   MAGNUSSON 

Vol.  VI 

HEIMSKRINGLA 

Vol.  IV 


VI. 


THE  STORIES  OF  THE 
KINGS  OF  NORWAY 

CALLED  THE  ROUND 
OF  THE  WORLD 

(HEIMSKRINGLA) 
BY   SNORRI    STURLASON 

DONE    INTO    ENGLISH 
OUT   OF   THE    ICELANDIC 

BY 

WILLIAM    MORRIS 

AND 

EIRIKR    MAGNUSSON 


VOL.  IV 

BY 

EIRIKR   MAGNUSSON 

LONDON 
BERNARD   QUARITCH,    15   PICCADILLY 

1905 


ESI 

v.  t? 


CHISWICK  PRESS  :    CHARLES  WHIT  [INGHAM  AND  CO. 
TOOKS  COURT,  CHANCERY  LANE,  LONDON. 


CONTENTS 

Preface,  vii-xvi. 

Introductory.   Snorri  Sturlason: 

I .  The  Chief  :  Family,  xvii — Character  of  his  father,  xvii-xviii — 
Fostering  at  Oddi,  marriage,  xviii-xx — First  entry  on  public 
life,  xx — Dealings  with  his  uncle  Thord  Bodvarson,  xxi — 
With  Thorkel  Walrus,  xxi-xxii — Children  in  and  out  of  wed- 
lock, xxii-xxiii — Removal  to  Reykholt,  xxii — Acquisition  of  the 
godordof  the  Avellings,  xxiii — Speaker-at-lawfor  the  first  time, 
xxiii — Contest  with  Magnus  the  Good,  xxii-xxiv — Relations 
to  Earl  Hakon  Galinn,  xxiii-xxv — In  Norway  for  first  time, 
honours  and  gifts  lavished  on  him,  xxv-xxviii — Ssemund  of 
Oddi  and  Sigurd  Swinefelling,  xx — Ssemund  and  the  Biorg- 
vinians,  xxv-xxvii — Snorri's  return  to  Iceland,  hostility  with 
Sa^mund's  kindred,  fickle  treatment  of  Lopt  Paulson,  xxviii- 
xxx — Snorri,  Speaker  again,  friendship  re-established  with 
the  family  of  Oddi,  first  meeting  with  Hallveig  Orm's  daughter, 
xxx-xxxi — Snorri  and  Thorvald  Snorrison  of  Waterfirth, 
xxxi-xxxii,  xxxv — Snorri  gives  his  daughter  Ingibiorg  in  mar- 
riage to  Gizur  Thorvaldson,  brings  Hallveig  to  his  house, 
befriends  Lopt  Paulson,  xxxii — Snorri  and  Thord  in  conflict 
with  their  brother  Sighvat  and  his  son  Sturla  over  the  godord 
of  the  Snorrungs,  xxxiii-xxxv — Jon  Snorrison,  xxxvi-xxxvii 
— Snorri's  and  Sturla  Sighvatson's  dealings  in  respect  of 
the  latter's  slaying  of  the  sons  of  Thorvald  of  Waterfirth, 
xxxvii-xxxviii,  xli — Snorri  and  Kolbein  the  Young,  xxxiv, 
xxxvii-xxxix,  xlii-xliii — Bishop  Gudmund  Arison,  xxxix-xl — 
Sturla  Sighvatson's  journey  to  Norway  and  Rome,  xli-xlii — 
His  persecution  of  Snorri,  xliii-xlvi — Snorri  second  time  in 
Norway,  xlvi — Sturla  and  Gizur  Thorvaldson;  Sturla's  fall 


vi  Contents 

at  the  battle  of  Orlygstead,  xlvi-xlix —  Snorri's  return  to 
Iceland,  xlix-1 — Snorri's  last  attendance  at  the  Althing; 
death  of  Hallveig;  dispute  with  her  sons,  1-li — Snorri's 
visit  to  his  nephew  Tumi  Sighvatson;  return  to  Reykholt, 
li — King  Hakon  orders  Kolbein  the  Young  and  Gizur 
Thorvaldson  to  send  Snorri  to  Norway  or  else  kill  him; 
he  is  murdered  by  Gizur  Thorvaldson's  orders,  1-li — His 
character,  liii-liv. 

II.  The  Author:  The  historical  school  of  oral  tradition,  liv-lvii 
— The  era  of  letters;  writers  known  before  Snorri:  Ssemund 
Sigfusson — Ari  Thorgilsson — Eric  Oddson — Odd  Snorrison 
— Gunnlaug  Leifson,  lvii-lxv — Snorri's  works :  Edda,  lxv-lxxiii 
— Heimskringla:  MSS.  of,  Ixxiii-lxxvi — Sources,  lxxvi-lxxx 
— Egil's  Saga,  lxxx-lxxxi — Relation  of  the  Saga  of  Olaf  the 
Holy  to  the  other  Sagas  of  Heimskr.,  lxxxii-lxxxv — Snorri  as 
historian  and  stylist,  lxxxv-xc. 

Kings  of  Norway,  Denmark,  and  Sweden,  xc-xcii. 

Index  I.  Names  of  Persons  and  Peoples,  1-238. 

II.  Names  of  Places,  239-292. 

III.  Subjects,  293-515. 

Corrections. 
Genealogies. 


PREFACE 

At  last,  ten  years  after  the  publication  of  the  third  volume  of 
the  Heimskringla,  and  nine  after  the  death  of  the  originator  of 
the  SAGA  LIBRARY,  the  indexes  to  Snorri's  work  see  the  day. 
No  one  can  regret  the  extent  of  this  delay  more  keenly  than  I 
do  myself,  especially  as  I  do  not  pretend  to  be  personally  free 
from  all  blame  in  the  matter.  In  the  main,  however,  it  has  been 
due  to  causes  over  which  it  was  not  in  my  power  to  exercise 
any  control. 

The  Saga  Library  was  an  idea  conceived  by  William  Morris, 
suggested  to  and  taken  up  by  the  late  Mr.  Quaritch.  The  work 
on  it  was  divided  between  Morris  and  myself  in  the  following 
manner:  Having  read  together  the  sagas  contained  in  the  first 
three  volumes,  Morris  wrote  out  the  translation  and  I  collated 
his  MS.  with  the  original.  For  the  last  two  volumes  of  the 
Heimskringla  the  process  was  reversed,  I  doing  the  translation, 
he  the  collation  ;  the  style,  too,  he  emended  throughout  in  ac- 
cordance with  his  own  ideal.  Morris  wrote  pp.  v-xii]5  of  the  pre- 
face to  vol.  i ;  the  rest  of  it  was  drawn  up  by  me,  as  was  also 
the  preface  to  the  second  volume  and  submitted  to  Morris' 
revision.  Indexes,  notes,  genealogical  tables  I  took  in  hand, 
also  the  drawing  of  the  maps  which  Morris  had  printed  in  his 
own  way. 

As  to  the  style  of  Morris  little  need  be  said  except  this  that 
it  is  a  strange  misunderstanding  to  describe  all  terms  in  his 
translations  which  are  not  familiar  to  the  reading  public  as 
'pseudo-Middle-English.' l  Anyone  in  a  position  to  collate  the 
Icelandic  text  with  the  translation  will  see  at  a  glance  that  in 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  cases  these  terms  are  literal  trans- 

1  Corpus  poet.  Boreale  I,  cxv.  I  will  not  attempt  an  analysis  of  the  breath- 
less eloquence  of  the  anathema  of  the  Corpus,  for  the  good  reason  that  I 
fail  to  make  out  the  sense  of  it.  Middle-English  scholars  who  in  the  3rd 
plur.  pres.  done  (faciunt)  detect  Icel.  d<hzi=clovm,  cad  (Dictionary  s.v.  ddni) 
are  apt  to  have  strange  M.  E.  visions. 

vii 


viii  Preface 

lations  of  the  Icel.  originals,  e.g.,  by-men — byjar-menn  =  town's 
people ;  cheaping — kaupangr  =  trading  station ;  earth-burg — 
jarS-borg  =  earth-work  ;  shoe-swain — sk6-sveinn  =  page ;  out- 
bidding— tit-bo^  =  call  to  arms,  etc.  It  is  a  strange  piece  of 
impertinence  to  hint  at  '/^^^-Middle-English '  scholarship  in 
a  man  who,  in  a  sense,  might  be  said  to  be  a  living  edition  of 
all  that  was  best  in  M.-E.  literature.  The  question  is  simply 
this  :  is  it  worth  while  to  carry  closeness  of  translation  to  this 
length,  albeit  that  it  is  an  interesting  and  amusing  experiment? 
That  is  a  matter  of  taste;  therefore  not  of  dispute.  But  when 
the  terms  complained  of  are  indexed  and  explained  as  they  now 
are  the  inconvenience  to  the  reader,  real  or  imaginary,  is  reduced 
to  a  minimum. 

A  subject  of  great  difficulty  was  the  question  how  to  deal  with 
the  proper  names  of  places.  We  took  the  course  of  translating 
them  wholly,  when  practical,  or  else,  partly,  or  not  at  all;  in 
which  case  the  vernacular  form  is  retained  shorn  of  its  inflective 
termination  if  it  had  one.  This  method,  we  were  quite  aware, 
was  not  satisfactory;  but  unless  all  attempt  at  translation  was 
given  up  and  the  names  were  retained  in  their  vernacular  form, 
it  seemed  to  be  the  only  one  open  to  us.  To  follow  the  latter 
alternative  would  serve  two  ends :  it  would  present  to  the  reader 
at  first  sight  the  native  forms  of  the  names,  and  it  would  ensure 
self-consistency  throughout.  But  in  an  English  translation  the 
names  in  their  native  dress  would  jar  on  the  reader's  feelings ; 
to  get  out  of  them  anglisized  forms  (without  translating  them) 
after  the  manner  in  which  they  are  swedisized  and  danisized  by 
modern  Scandinavians  is,  I  think,  impossible  on  account  of  the 
more  distant  speech  affinity.  In  the  '  Origines  Islandicae '  I  see 
that  a  method  almost  identical  with  ours  has  been  adopted. 

In  respect  of  the  present  volume  I  have  but  a  few  remarks  to 
make.  Indexes  I  and  II  are  meant  to  be  complete  as  to  matter 
and  exhaustive  as  to  references.  Some  people  may  find  the 
former  full  to  a  fault ;  I  hope,  however,  not  to  the  extent  of 
materially  interfering  with  its  usefulness.  For  the  benefit  of 
those  who  are  interested  in  the  study  of  that  extraordinary  lore, 
the  by-  and  nicknames  of  the  Scandinavians,  I  have  added  to 
this  index  a  list  in  alphabetical  order  of  the  vernacular  forms. 
Presumably  it  adds  a  not  unwelcome  supplement  to  similar  lists 
in  Flatey  book  iii.   657-663  and  Sturlunga  ii.  467-468.    With 


Preface  ix 

regard  to  Index  III,  I  must  observe  that  a  register  or  a  dictionary 
of  terms  illustrative  of  the  culture  of  the  life  of  the  ancient 
Scandinavians  (and  Icelanders)  has  been  for  a  long  time  a 
keenly  felt  desideratum.  This  want,  so  far  as  the  Heimskringla 
is  concerned,  ought  now,  approximately  at  least,  to  have  been 
supplied;  for  I  trust  that  nothing  of  real  importance  has  been 
overlooked,  nor  any  item  included  of  no  importance  at  all. 
General  dictionaries  do  not  supply  this  want.  They  are  con- 
cerned with  the  meanings  of  words;  not  with  the  relations  in 
which  the  things  signified  by  the  words  stand  to  the  environ- 
ment of  life,  or  with  the  functions  they  perform  in  its  organism. 
For  the  student  of  the  history  of  human  culture  they  are  there- 
fore always  insufficient  guides,  always,  naturally,  deficient  in 
copiousness  of  references  to  the  sources.  In  order  to  make  this 
index  still  more  useful  I  have  added  to  it  a  complete  list  of  the 
vernacular  terms  in  alphabetical  order. 

To  these  prefatory  remarks  I  will  add  the  following  notices, 
illustrative  of  Morris'  relation  to  Icelandic  literature,  as  a  supple- 
ment to  the  Memorial  at  the  end. 

It  will,  no  doubt,  be  remarked,  how,  in  a  great  number  of 
cases  the  rendering  of  the  verses  of  Heimskringla  presents  a 
certain  stiffness  that  was  altogether  foreign  to  Morris'  fluent 
versification.  The  reason  of  this  is  twofold:  In  the  verses  he 
wanted  to  be  as  honestly  literal  as  in  the  prose:  This  principle 
involved  a  literal  rendering,  as  far  as  possible,  of  the  various 
links  that  served  to  make  up  the  '  Kennings,'  or  poetical  peri- 
phrases, all  the  less  obvious  forms  of  which  will  be  found  ex- 
plained in  the  notes  appended  to  vols,  i.-iii.  The  quaint  vivid- 
ness of  fancy  that  manifests  itself  in  these  'kennings  '  appealed 
greatly  to  Morris'  imaginative  mind,  and  he  would  on  no  ac- 
count slur  over  them  by  giving  in  the  translation  only  what  they 
meant,  instead  of  what  they  said.  This,  of  course,  renders  it 
necessary  to  read  the  verses  with  some  closeness  of  attention  by 
the  aid  of  the  notes.  A  very  similar  treatment  to  the  verses  has 
been  given  by  Dr.  Hildebrand  and  Professor  Storm  in  their 
translations  of  Heimskringla.  Morris  was  so  taken  with  the 
workmanship  of  the  '  kenning '  that  once — we  were  doing  the 
verses  of  the  Eredwellers'  saga — he  said  it  was  a  task  we  must 
address  ourselves  to  to  bring  together  a  corpus  of  the  kennings 
with  a  commentary  on  their  poetical,  mythical,  legendary,  and 


x  Preface 

antiquarian  significance,  when  we  should  find  leisure  for  it. 
Through  his  manner  of  dealing  with  the  '  kennings  '  in  this 
saga,  it  is  easy  to  see  that  his  own  version  meant  to  be  a  fore- 
runner to  such  a  work,  for  it  is  both  a  translation  and  a  sort  of 
commentary  throwing  out  their  picturesque  points  to  the  fullest 
extent ;  hence  his  choice  of  the  long  metre  in  order  to  have  a 
freer  play  with  this  element  in  the  verses. 

Morris  has  described  in  an  admirable  manner  his  apprecia- 
tion of  Icelandic  literature  in  the  preface  to  the  first  volume  of 
the  Saga  Library.  Through  him  more  than  anyone  else  interest 
for  it  has  spread  into  wider  circles,  in  this  country,  and  will 
continue  still  to  do  so,  for  the  '  Lovers  of  Gudrun  '  and  '  Sigurd 
the  Volsung '  will  long  continue  to  be  read  by  Englishmen  who 
delight  in  grand  stories  told  with  consummate  skill.  He  always 
maintained  that  the  realism  of  the  Icelandic  sagas  would  secure 
for  them  a  perennial  popularity  in  England  and  that  here  a 
much  wider  interest  would  always  be  taken  in  them  than  in 
romantic  Germany,  though  the  scientific  study  of  the  language 
would  probably  never  be  carried  so  far  here  as  there.  Personal 
feeling,  however,  may  have  unduly  affected  his  judgement  on 
this  point. 

That  the  Icelandic  saga  was  such  a  constant  source  of  pleasure 
to  Morris  was  in  a  large  measure  owing  to  the  vividness  and  re- 
tentiveness  of  his  memory.  This  I  will  take  the  opportunity  of 
illustrating  here  with  a  story  from  our  travels  in  Iceland  in  187 1. 
The  plan  of  our  journey  required  going  west  to  the  extremity  of 
Snsefells-ness  along  the  southern  shore  of  Broadfirth.  Hearing 
this  our  host  in  Stykkisholm  let  fall  words  to  the  effect  that  he 
hoped  none  of  us  suffered  from  giddiness  standing  on  the  verge 
of  a  precipice,  overhanging  the  sea,  at  an  elevation  of  some 
350  feet.  Morris  felt  nervous.  He  resolved  at  first  to  go  with 
me  a  long  circuit  round  so  as  to  avoid  the  perilous  place ;  but 
afterwards  made  up  his  mind  to  run  the  risk.  The  place  in 
question  was  the  notorious  headland  of  Biilandshof^Si,  which  is 
only  passable  in  summer.  Along  the  ledge  of  the  precipice  runs 
a  very  narrow  bridle-path.  Above  it  is  a  scree,  reaching  up  to 
the  top  of  the  mountain,  only  a  few  degrees  out  of  the  per- 
pendicular, composed  of  disintegrated  loose  conglomerate.  We 
passed  the  perilous  place  and  rejoicingly  celebrated  the  event 
in  a  grassy  dene  on  the  side  of  safety  and  Morris  was  very  merry 


Preface  xi 

and  full  of  good  talk.  We  reached  late  at  night  the  church- 
stead  of  Ingjaldsh611  and  made  ourselves  snug  in  the  Church. 
After  the  day's  excitement  Morris  was  not  inclined  to  sleep  and 
proposed  to  tell  us  a  story,  and  we  were  all  ears  at  one.  He 
began  the  short  Saga  of  Bjorn,  the  champion  of  the  Hitdale-men, 
and  went  on  with  it  to  the  end,  only  once  hesitating  about  a 
personal  name.  This  was  to  me  the  more  wonderful  that  we  had 
only  once  read  the  saga  together  and  he  was  not  at  all  taken 
with  it  as  a  piece  of  literature. 

In  the  following  obituary  notice  '  on  Morris  I  find  nothing  to 
alter.  I  give  it  a  place  here  as  a  special  Memorial  on  William 
Morris : 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  assign  to  this  truly  great  man  his  place 
in  the  literary  and  artistic  life  of  England  at  the  close  of  the 
nineteenth  century.  Others,  far  more  competent  than  I  am, 
have  been,  are  still,  and  will  yet  for  a  while  be  busy  on  that 
problem.  Mine  shall  be  the  more  congenial  task  of  recording 
a  few  facts  illustrative  of  such  phases  of  W.  Morris'  life  as  I  had 
an  opportunity  of  observing  during  a  period  of  close  intimacy 
extending  over  seven-and-twenty  years. 

When  I  opened  the  paper  on  Monday,  the  5th  of  October, 
and  learnt  that  Morris'  eye  of  ever-sparkling  life  was  closed  in 
death,  I  felt  with  Burnt  Nial,  when  bereft  of  a  dear  relative,  as 
if  the  '  sweetest  light  of  my  eyes  had  gone  out.'  I  had  lost  in 
him  a  friend  'true  as  the  loadstar';  an  instructor  whose  mind 
was  a  mine  of  information  on  the  most  heterogeneous  subjects; 
a  fellow-worker  as  utterly  regardless  of  self  as  he  was  cheerfully 
congenial,  untiring,  considerate,  and  communicative  of  the  most 
varied  lore  as  we  sped  industriously  on  at  our  labour  of  love. 

I  went  up  to  see  him  after  his  relapse  on  the  return  from 
Norway,  and  found  the  stout  and  sturdy  form  of  former  days 
reclining  on  an  easy  chair  in  his  beloved  library,  sadly  reduced 
in  body,  but  with  a  face  the  emaciation  of  which,  it  seemed  to 
me,  had  added  a  still  loftier  grandeur  to  the  expression  of  his 
always  noble  forehead.  Now  for  the  first  time  I  heard  him  utter 
in  a  hollowly  feeble  voice  the  familiar  greeting,  '  How  are  you, 
old  chap?'  I  tried  my  best  to  be  cheery.  In  an  inexpressibly 
sad  tone  he  sighed:  '  But  this  is  such  a  tveary  work!    My  left 

1  Printed  in  the  "  Cambridge  Review"  of  November  26,  1896. 


xii  Preface 

lung  is  gone  and  we  are  now  trying  to  stop  the  mischief  there 
by  drying  it  up.'    '  But,'  he  added,  as  by  way  of  self-comfort, 
'  many  a  man  lives  comfortably  enough  with  only  one  lung  to 
breathe  with.'   His  voyage  to  Norway  had  done  him  no  good ; 
he  had  even  lost  flesh  on  it.   Still  he  was  feeling  better,  he  said, 
and  seemed  to  cheer  up  when  I  remarked  how  very  slight  a 
change  his  illness  had  wrought  in  the  features  and  expression 
of  his  face.    He  could  not  resist  giving  me  some  impressions  of 
his  journey,  and  especially  graphic  was  his  description  of  the 
forbidding  grimness  of  the  black  wall  of  precipices  that  hems  in, 
in  places,  the  waters  of  Sognef  jord.    I  took  the  opportunity  of 
congratulating  him  on  the  Kelmscott  Press  edition  of  Chaucer; 
and  for  the  last  time  I  saw  a  flash  of  enthusiasm  fire  the  whole 
frame  of  my  dying  friend.    He  lifted  his  right  hand  and  let  it 
fall  heavily  on  his  knee,  and  said  in  a  voice  faltering  with 
emotion :  '  It  is  not  only  the  finest  book  in  the  world,  but  an 
undertaking  that  was  an  absolutely  unchecked  success  from 
beginning  to  end.    On  the  day  we  went  to  press  I  came  down 
in  the  morning  and  said  to  the  chaps  waiting:   "  I  feel  as  if  I 
had  proposed  a  coach  and  four-in-hand  journey  to  Norwich,  and 
found  on  starting  but  four-and-twenty  mice  in  the  traces."'   He 
rose  from  his  chair,  as  if  he  wanted  to  have  a  walk  round  in  the 
old  fashion,  when  the  topic  ran  on  an  interesting  subject,  and 
went  with  his  right  hand  through  the  still  copious  crop  of  his 
gray-besprinkled  hair,  a  familiar  habit  of  his  when  in  an  ex- 
hilarated mood,  but  he  only  stood  still  for  a  moment,  then  sank 
down  again  on  his  couch  uttering  in  a  whisper,  as  if  talking  to 
himself,  a  northern  proverb  that  once  greatly  took  his  fancy: 
'Youth  romps,  said  the  Carline,  she  sprang  over  a  "haulm- 
straw."  '    My  allowed  time  was  up.    We  talked  business  for  a 
while  on  the  '  Saga  Library,'  and  shook  hands  for  the  last  time 
in  life. 

Our  acquaintance  began  first  in  August,  1869,  through  the 
medium  of  one  of  his  partners  whom  I  had  accidentally  met 
out  at  a  party.  I  made  my  appearance  on  the  day  appointed, 
and  met  in  the  hall  of  26  Bloomsbury  Square  my  new  acquaint- 
ance who,  with  a  cordial  '  come  upstairs,'  was  off  at  a  bound,  I 
following,  until  his  study  on  the  second  floor  was  reached.  I 
had  before  me  a  ruddy-complexioned,  sturdily-framed,  brawn- 
necked,   shock -headed,  plainly  dressed  gentleman  of  middle 


Preface  xiii 

stature,  with  somewhat  small  but  exceedingly  keen  and  spark- 
ling eyes ;  his  volubility  of  speech  struck  me  no  less  than  the 
extensive  information  he  displayed  about  Iceland  and  Icelandic 
literature  generally,  acquired,  of  course,  at  second  hand.  Alto- 
gether, what  with  his  personal  appearance,  his  peculiarly  frank 
manner,  his  insatiable  curiosity,  exuberant  hilarity  and  trans- 
parent serious-mindedness,  I  felt  I  had  never  come  across  a 
more  attractive  personality. 

At  dinner  I  had  the  first  glimpse  of  Morris'  family  life,  and 
wondered  not  how  in  all  his  ways  he  betrayed  the  air  of  a 
supremely  happy  man.  The  one  unchanging  life-long  delight 
of  his  inmost  heart  were  his  truly  charming  wife,  in  the  first 
instance,  and  his  very  clever  two  daughters  in  the  second.  This 
reminds  me  of  a  touching  incident  from  our  travels  in  Iceland. 
We  were  the  cooks  of  the  expedition,  Morris  head-cook,  of 
course.  Once  as  we  were  engaged  in  preparing  dinner  in  the 
kitchen  of  a  farmhouse,  I  observed  my  robust-minded  friend  so 
entranced  in  thought  as  not  to  heed  what  he  was  doing;  on  my 
asking  what  was  the  matter,  he  answered,  with  that  inexpressibly 
sweet  smile  that  transfigured  his  face  when  he  was  intensely 
delighted,  '  I  was  dreaming  of  my  love-nest  at  home.'  In  the 
presence  of  Mrs.  Morris'  dignified  calm  and  gentle  demeanour 
the  Thor  of  the  study  and  the  workshop,  where,  at  times, 
thundering  was  not  unknown,  was  always  the  tender,  devoted, 
worshipping  husband.  His  attachment  to  home  and  family  was 
a  passion,  not  a  routine  observance  with  him.  And  here  among 
his  treasures  of  art  and  literature  he  spent  the  happiest  hours  of 
his  busy  and  almost  abstemious  life ;  for  as  to  food  and  drink 
he  was  a  man  of  strict  moderation. 

His  first  taste  of  Icelandic  literature  was  the  story  of  '  Gunn- 
lung  the  Snaketongue.'  I  suggested  we  had  better  start  with 
some  grammar.  '  No,  I  can't  be  bothered  with  grammar ; 
have  no  time  for  it.  You  be  my  grammar  as  we  translate.  I 
want  the  literature,  I  must  have  the  story.  I  mean  to  amuse 
myself.'  I  read  out  to  him  some  opening  passages  of  the  saga, 
in  order  to  give  him  an  idea  of  the  modern  pronunciation  of 
the  language.  He  repeated  the  passus  as  well  as  could  be  ex- 
pected of  a  first  beginner  at  five-and-thirty,  naturally  endowed 
with  not  a  very  flexible  organ.  But  immediately  he  flew  back 
to  the  beginning,  saying  :  '  But,  look  here,   I  see  through  it 


xiv  Preface 

all,  let  me  try  and  translate.'  Off  he  started,  translated,  blun- 
dered, laughed;  but  still,  he  saw  through  it  all  with  an  intuition 
that  fairly  took  me  aback.  Henceforth  no  time  must  be  wasted 
on  reading  out  the  original.  He  must  have  the  story  as  quickly 
as  possible.  The  dialect  of  our  translation  was  not  the  Queen's 
English,  but  it  was  helpful  towards  penetrating  into  the  thought 
of  the  old  language.  Thus,  to  give  an  example,  lerStogi,  a 
guide,  became  load-tugger  (load  =  way,  in  load-star,  load-stone; 
togi  from  toga  to  tug  (on),  one  who  leads  on  with  a  rope) ; 
kvasnask  (  =  kvsena  sik  from  kvan  =  queen,  woman)  to  bequeen 
one's  self  =  to  take  a  wife,  etc.  That  such  a  method  of  acquiring 
the  language  should  be  a  constant  source  of  merriment,  goes 
without  saying.  In  this  way  the  best  of  the  sagas  were  run 
through,  at  daily  sittings,  generally  covering  three  hours,  already 
before  I  left  London  for  Cambridge  in  187 1.  And  even  after 
that  much  work  was  still  done,  when  I  found  time  to  come  and 
stay  with  him.  During  the  seven-and-twenty  years  over  which  our 
work  on  Icelandic  literature  extended  never  a  high  word  was 
uttered;  our  differences,  what  few  there  were,  found  always  a 
speedy  settlement  in  appeals  to  grammatical  logic,  to  adducible 
illustrative  passages  or  other  linguistic  evidence  of  mutually  ac- 
knowledged weight.  To  real  cruxes  we  both  respectfully  bowed 
and  passed  on,  leaving  uncertain  guess-work  alone. 

What  charmed  Morris  most  was  the  directness  with  which  a 
saga-man  would  deal  with  the  relations  of  man  to  man ;  the 
dramatic  way  in  which  he  arranged  the  material  of  his  story ; 
his  graphic  descriptions  of  the  personal  appearance  of  the 
actors,  and  of  the  tumultuous  fray  of  battle;  the  defiant  spirit 
that  as  unflinchingly  faced  wrong-doing  as  open  danger,  over- 
whelming odds,  or  inevitable  death.  In  fact,  he  found  on  every 
page  an  echo  of  his  own  buoyant,  somewhat  masterful  mind,  a 
marked  characteristic  of  which  was  a  passionate  intolerance  of 
all  interference  with  natural  right  and  rational  freedom,  and 
especially  of  any  contradictory  attitude  towards  a  subject  of  the 
reality  or  truth  of  which  he  felt  convinced  himself. 

Much  delight  as  he  took  in  the  Sagas,  the  work  that  fetched 
Morris  most  was  the  Elder  Edda,  especially  the  cyclus  of  heroic 
lays  that  deals  with  the  grim  tragedy  of  the  Volsungs  and 
Gjukungs.  In  the  death-fain  sorrow  of  Brynhild,  in  Sigrun's 
death-ignoring  love  of  Helgi,  in  Gudrun's  lofty  grief  for  Sigurd 


Preface  xv 

and  gruesome  hate  of  Atli,  passion  measures  on  a  scale  that 
only  the  highest  poetical  genius  knows  how  to  handle  so  as,  in 
spite  of  its  enormity,  to  preserve  an  intensely  human  character. 
Many  a  time  as  we  were  struggling  through  these  old  lays  Morris 
would  rise  and  pace  his  room,  discoursing  on  the  high  art  these 
old  poets  possessed,  in  never  allowing  the  description  of  these 
volcanic  passions  to  pass  into  mere  grandiose  platitudes,  al- 
though clearly  the  temptation  lay  near,  seeing  that  hard  and 
fast  Fate,  concealed  in  the  background,  was  the  real  author  of 
the  huge-featured  tragedy. 

From  the  very  first  day  that  I  began  work  with  William  Morris 
on  Icelandic  literature  the  thing  that  struck  me  most  was  this, 
that  he  entered  into  the  spirit  of  it  not  with  the  pre-occupied 
mind  of  a  foreigner,  but  with  the  intuition  of  an  uncommonly 
wide-awake  native.  I  therefore  soon  made  up  my  mind  to  per- 
suade him  to  give  to  certain  subjects  of  the  literature  his  own 
poetical  treatment.  When  we  had  done  the  '  Story  of  the  men 
of  Salmon-river-dale '  (Laxdcela),  and  when  the  lays  on  the 
Volsungs  and  Gjukungs  were  finished,  I  gave  it  him  as  my 
impression,  that  the  life  of  Gudrun  Osvifr's  daughter,  and  the 
life  of  Sigurd  Fafner's  slayer  were  dealt  with,  in  the  old  records, 
so  fragmentarily  and,  at  the  same  time,  so  suggestively,  as  to 
leave  a  poet  like  himself,  steeped  in  the  lore  of  the  Middle 
Ages  and  possessed,  at  first  hand,  of  full  mastery  of  these  sub- 
jects, a  wide  field  open  for  poetical  treatment  after  the  manner 
of  the  tales  of  the  Earthly  Paradise.  He  was  then  too  full  of 
first  impressions  to  entertain  the  idea.  He  even  went  so  far  as 
to  say  that  these  matters  were  too  sacred,  too  venerable,  to  be 
touched  by  a  modern  hand.  The  matter  dropped  in  each  case, 
after  some  argument  on  either  side,  by  my  suggesting  that  he 
might  think  it  over.  After  a  month,  or  perhaps  more,  in  either 
case,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  finding  the  poet,  one  day,  unex- 
pectedly, in  a  state  of  fervid  enthusiasm,  declaring  that  he  had 
made  up  his  mind  to  write  a  new  poem:  'The  Lovers  of  Gudrun' 
— 'Sigurd  the  Volsung.'  In  each  case  the  subject-matter  had 
taken  such  a  clearly  definite  shape  in  his  mind,  as  he  told  me, 
that  it  only  remained  to  write  it  down.  This  illustrates  the 
poet's  method  of  working  and  accounts  for  the  fact,  that  the 
MS.  of  all  his  work  shows  such  a  slight  amount  of  correction 
or  alteration.  In  both  these  noble  monuments  to  Morris'  poet- 


xvi  Preface 

ical  genius,  when  critically  compared  with  the  original  sources, 
there  are  many  points  of  excellence  yet  undiscovered  by  his 
reviewers. 

I  have  already  proceeded  to  such  a  length  that  I  must  pass 
over  our  travels  in  Iceland  in  187 1.  Those  travels  are  best  de- 
scribed in  Morris'  own  yet  unpublished  diary  of  them. 

By  his  life's  labour  William  Morris  secured  for  himself  a 
unique  position  in  the  whole  Anglican  world  ;  and  about  his 
labour  he  did  not  go  after  the  ways  of  ordinary  men.  Of  free 
choice  he  never  spent  time  on  any  thing  but  what  he  embraced 
with  interest.  But  taking  interest  in  a  matter  meant  with  him 
throwing  himself  heart  and  soul  into  a  subject  and  doing  it 
altogether  in  his  own  way.  Thus,  in  order  to  secure  the  highest 
excellence  in  the  way  of  fast  colours  to  his  textile  fabrics,  he 
studied  the  subject  of  dyeing  scientifically  to  the  very  bottom. 
One  of  the  most  interesting  discourses  he  ever  treated  me  to 
was  one  on  dyeing-stuffs,  delivered  among  dye-vats  in  the  cellars 
of  his  old  house  in  Bloomsbury  Square.  On  heavy  sabots  of 
French  make,  aproned  from  the  armpits,  with  tucked-up  shirt- 
sleeves, his  fore-arms  dyed  up  to  the  elbow,  the  great  man 
lectured  most  brilliantly  on  the  high  art  of  dyeing,  illustrating 
his  lecture  with  experiments  in  the  various  dyes  he  wanted  for 
his  silks  and  wools.  In  the  afternoon  of  the  same  day  I  found 
him  busy  on  illuminating  a  MS.  he  intended  as  a  present  for  a 
friend,  for  he  was  a  first-rate  calligraphist ;  and  at  night  '  I  must 
leave  him  alone 'with  his  Sigurd  the  Volsung!  He  could  never 
be  idle,  yet  he  always  proclaimed  himself  as  the  most  idle  of 
men.  But  his  work  must  be  ' amusing':  it  must  have  the  char- 
acter of  artistic  beauty.  And  the  key-note  of  Morris'  life  was 
'  amusement ' :  enjoyment  of  what  the  world  had  to  show  in 
the  way  of  beauty  in  the  arts,  in  literature,  life  and  nature.  To 
some  extent  this  accounts  for  the  purity  and  guilelessness  of 
his  character,  his  broad-minded  fairness  towards  adversaries — 
enemies  he  could  have  had  none,  for  he  knew  not  how  to  hate 
— his  knightly  frankness  and  conciliatory  disposition  which 
never  deserted  him,  not  even  when  he  felt  compelled  to  thunder 
down  an  unreasonable  opponent. 

ElRIKR  MAGNUSSON. 

Cambridge, 

October,  1 905. 


SNORRI  STURLASON 
I— THE  CHIEF 

Snorri  Sturlason,  statesman,  poet,  scholar  and,  above  all, 
historian,  was  the  youngest  son  of  Sturla  Thordson  of  Hvamm 
in  Hvammsfirth,  western  Iceland,  and  his  second  wife,  Gudny, 
the  daughter  of  Bodvar  Thordson,  who  was  the  ninth  lineal  de- 
scendant of  Kveldulf  the  grandfather  of  Egil  Skallagrimson. 
Sturla  himself  was  also  a  man  of  good  birth,  and  could  claim 
relationship  to  the  important  family  of  the  Thorsnessings,  being 
sixth  in  descent  from  the  '  deep'  magnate  Snorri  godi,1  some  of 
whose  less  recommendable  traits  of  character  had  descended  in 
an  accentuated  form  on  the  aggressive  lord  of  Hvamm.  One 
incident  in  Sturla's  life,  at  once  illustrative  of  his  character  and 
explanatory  of  the  event  that  was  to  determine  the  future 
destiny  of  Snorri,  may  be  briefly  touched  upon. 

Sturla  had  taken  sides  with  his  father-in-law,  Bodvar  Thord- 
son, of  Bae  in  Borgfirth,  in  a  case  of  inheritance  against  the 
priest,  Paul  Solvison  of  Reykholt,  who  was  married  to  Thorbiorg, 
the  daughter  of  Biorn  and  sister  to  Helga  the  wife  of  Brand 
Saemundson,  Bishop  of  Holar.  After  several  futile  attempts  at 
settling  the  dispute  the  parties  agreed  to  have  a  meeting  at 
Reykholt,  after  Michael  mass,  1180,  for  the  purpose  of  peace- 
fully coming  to  terms.  Sturla  was  present  at  the  meeting  and 
stubbornly  supported  his  father-in-law  although  he  had  the  law 
against  him.  Thorbiorg,  a  savage-tempered  virago,  losing  patience 
over  the  slow  progress  of  the  proceedings,  rushed  at  Sturla  with 
a  dagger,  crying  she  would  make  him  like  to  the  one  he  wanted 

1  For  the  secular  sovereign  chiefs  of  the  country  we  retain  this  vernacular 
title,  or  else  'chief,'  the  translation  priest  in  the  christian  age  being  mis- 
leading. 

vi.  b 


xviii  Introductory 

most  to  resemble — Odinn  (one  eyed),  and  wounded  him  in  the 
face.    Priest  Paul  was  forced  to  agree  to  leaving  it  to  Sturla  to 
make  his  own  award  for  the  injury  done.    Sturla's  terms,  how- 
ever, proved  so  exorbitant,  that  the  priest  did  not  see  his  way 
to  complying  with  them.1   He  took  his  case  to  the  mightiest  and 
most  influential  chief  of  the  country,  Jon  Loptson  of  Oddi,  and 
asked  for  his  protection  and  award,  to  which  Sturla,  however 
reluctantly,  had  to  consent.   To  smooth  the  way  of  the  negotia- 
tion the  diplomatic  lord  of  Oddi  offered  to  Sturla  to  take  into 
fostering  his  youngest  son  Snorri.  From  such  a  chief  as  Jon  this 
was  an  offer  most  highly  flattering  to  the  vanity  of  the  father, 
for  in  the  ordinance  of  social  precedence  the  common  say  held 
good  in  Iceland  still,  that  '  he  who  fosters  a  child  acknowledges 
himself  the  father's  inferior.' 2   Jon  further  invited  Sturla  to  a 
banquet  on  the  "Church-day,"  or  anniversary  of  the  consecra- 
tion of  the  church  of  Oddi  (July  8th,  1181),  requesting  him  to 
bring  his  son  with  him,  an  invitation  which  Sturla  seems  to  have 
accepted  readily ;  so  that  from  this  date  begins  the  period  of 
Snorri's  sojourn  at  Oddi.3   Jon  awarded  Sturla  but  one  twelfth 
part  of  his  claim,  and  how  the  latter  bore  the  humiliation  came 
out  when  he  heard  the  news  of  the  death  of  Thorbiorg.    As  was 
his  wont,  when  he  took  matters  very  sorely  to  heart,  he  went  to 
bed,  suffering  with  painful  disappointment  because  the  chief 
excuse  for  wreaking  revenge  on  Thorbiorg's  sons  had  now  been 
removed.4 

By  common  consent  Sturla  was  a  man  of  unscrupulous  char- 
acter, masterful,  vindictive,  unfair,  and  grasping.5  With  his  wife 
he  had  three  sons,  the  famous  '  Sturlusons,'  Thord,  born  1165, 
Sighvat,  1 1 70,  and  Snorri,  n  78. 

Three  years  of  age,  then,  Snorri  went,  on  the  8th  of  July,  1 181, 
into  fostering  at  Oddi,  a  place  made  famous  in  the  annals  of 
Iceland  by  Ssemund  Sigfusson  the  Learned,  '  who  has  been  the 
best  clerk  in  Iceland.'6  The  school  of  Oddi,  under  Ssemund 
and  his  son  Eyolf  was  perhaps  the  most  popular  centre  of  learn- 

1  He  claimed  2X  120  x  120  =  28,800  ells'  worth  which,  if  an  ells'  worth, 
at  a  low  estimate,  is  calculated  to  equal  is.  6d.  in  present  money,  would 
amount  to  .£2160. — Sturlunga,  Vigfusson's  ed.  i.  76-82. 

2  Cf.   Heimskringla,  i.  I402e-ar 

3  Sturl.,  i.  84,  195.  *  Ibid.,  i.  84-85.  Ibid.,  i.  83, 
s  Kristni  Saga,  Bisk.  Sogur,  i.  28. 


Introductory  xix 

ing  in  the  land,  and  is  called  the  '  highest  head-stead '  by  the 
author  of  Thorlak  the  Holy's  saga,1  a  title  that  indicates  both 
the  wealth  of  the  house  and  its  educational  illustriousness.  That 
the  tradition  of  the  school  was  kept  up  by  Jon  Loptson  is  clear 
from  what  is  stated  about  his  bastard  son,  Bishop  Paul,  who 
was  brought  up  at  Oddi :  '  He  was  of  nimble  mind  and  well 
educated  (lsefSr)  already  in  the  age  of  youth.'2  That  Snorri  went 
here  through  a  course  of  education  is  clearly  to  be  inferred  from 
his  preface  to  the  Heimskringla,  where  he  says  he  has  been 
'  taught '  (besides  other  things,  of  course)  ancient  genealogical 
lore.3  Critics  have  speculated  a  good  deal  as  to  whether  he  knew 
Latin.  Taking  into  account  the  fact  that  hours  were  said  and 
sung  in  Latin  daily  in  the  church,  that  Latin  must  have  been 
the  principal  subject  of  instruction  at  the  school  of  Oddi  as  at 
any  other  mediaeval  school ;  that  the  rich  library  at  Oddi  must 
have  been  principally  in  Latin,  it  would  seem  to  be  simply  a 
foregone  conclusion  that  such  a  brilliantly  gifted  boy  as  Snorri 
could  not  help  learning  Latin. 

Of  Snorri's  life  during  his  status  pupillaris  we  know  absolutely 
nothing  beyond  the  fact  that,  in  1183  when  he  was  five  years  of 
age,  he  lost  his  father ;  that  his  portion  of  the  inheritance  was 
left  in  the  charge  of  his  mother,  a  gay  widow  and  a  thriftless 
manager ; 4  and  that  his  stay  at  Oddi  covered  the  last  sixteen 
years  of  his  fosterfather's  life,  who  died  on  the  1st  of  November, 
1 197,  when  Snorri  was  nineteen." 

From  that  time  the  sources  of  the  story  of  Snorri's  life  flow 
abundantly  ;  chiefly  from  the  Islendinga  Saga  (Sturlunga  Saga, 
vol.  i.,  Vigfusson's  edition),  a  most  important  record  due  to  the 
great  talent  and  industry  of  Snorri's  own  nephew,  the  justiciary 
(logma'Sr)  Sturla  Thordson ;  and  to  some  extent  from  Hakonar 
Saga  (Icelandic  Sagas,  Rolls  Series,  vol.  i.)  ed.  by  Gudbrand 
Vigfusson,  also  due  to  the  pen  of  Sturla  Thordson,  as  well  as 
from  Biskupa  Sogur  (Stories  of  the  early  bishops  of  Iceland), 
vol.  i.  Space  precludes  that  anything  beyond  a  mere  sketch  of 
Snorri's  life  should  here  be  attempted. 

After  his  fosterfather's  death  Snorri  remained  with  his  foster- 
brother  Saemund,  Jon  Loptson's  son,  for  another  year  or  two 
until  Saemund  in  company  with  Thord,  Snorri's  eldest  brother, 

1  Bisk.  Sogur,  i.  90.  2  Ibid.,  i.  127.  3  Heimskringla,  i.  3,., 

*  Sturl.,  i.,  165.  5  Ibid.,  i.  202. 


xx  Introductory 

had  successfully  arranged  a  marriage  between  him  and  Herdis, 
the  very  rich  daughter  of  Bersi  the  Wealthy,  a  priest  of  Borg,1 
the  well-known  manorial  seat  of  the  descendants  of  Skallagrim. 
Snorri  himself  was  left  without  means,  as  his  mother  had  dissi- 
pated all  his  inheritance ;  but  in  return  she  now  settled  on  him 
towards  his  marriage  the  land  of  the  family  manor  of  Hvamm. 
The  wedding  took  place  at  Hvamm  in  1199  and  an  under- 
standing was  arrived  at  to  the  effect  that  Snorri  should  keep 
house  at  Hvamm  conjointly  with  his  mother.  In  the  autumn 
following  the  wedding  the  newly  married  couple  went  on  a  visit 
south  to  Oddi  where  they  tarried  probably  till  1201.'"' 

This  year  (1199)  Snorri,  now  twenty  years  of  age,  got  mixed 
up  in  public  business  for  the  first  time.  The  east-country  chief 
Sigurd  Ormson  of  Swinefell  had  taken  in  hand  the  case  of  cer- 
tain of  his  liegemen  who  were  the  lawful  heirs  of  a  person 
named  Glasdir.  This  Glsedir  had  settled  his  property  on  Jon 
Loptson,  and  to  that  bequest  Saemund  succeeded  at  his  father's 
death  and  laid  claim  to  it.  On  Glaedir's  death,  on  the  other  hand, 
Sigurd  had  appointed  as  steward  of  the  property  a  person  named 
Kari,  and  relying  on  promises  of  support  from  Snorri's  brother 
Sighvat,  and  his  brother-in-law,  the  powerful  north  country  chief, 
Kolbein  Thumison,  he  refused  at  the  Althing  to  accede  to 
Saemund's  proposal  to  submit  the  case  to  arbitration.  Late  in 
the  winter  of  1200  therefore,  Saemund,  accompanied  by  Snorri, 
went  with  thirty  men  to  the  east,  slew  Sigurd's  steward  and  ap- 
propriated the  property  in  dispute.  In  the  spring  Snorri  sum- 
moned Sigurd  Ormson  to  the  local  Thing  (court)  of  Thinghalls 
(jringskalar)  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  river  Ranga  the  Western- 
most, where  Sigurd  lost  his  case  through  the  failure  of  support 
from  his  friends  and  through  Snorri's  energy  in  whipping  up 
throughout  Borgfirth  the  liegemen  of  Saemund,  and  marshalling 
them  to  the  Thing.  In  execution  of  the  judgement  Saemund 
marched  to  the  east  at  the  head  of  a  band  of  700  men-at-arms, 
but  Sigurd  mustered  only  200  to  oppose  to  him.  Through  the 
prompt  intercession  of  men  of  good  will  the  end  of  the  matter 
was  that  Saemund's  brother,  bishop  Paul,  by  mutual  consent, 
settled  the  case  by  arbitration,  and  in  such  a  manner  that  his 
brother  had  the  honour  of  it,  but  Sigurd  was  'contented.'3 

1  Sturl.,  i.  195,  202.  2  Ibid.,  i.  202. 

3  Ibid.,  i.  202-203  '■>  Biskupa  Sogur,  i.  458. 


Introductory  xxi 

Priest  Berse,  Snorri's  father-in-law,  died  1201,  and  Snorri 
through  his  wife  stepped  into  all  his  wealth  and  set  up  house 
at  Borg,  where  he  remained  for  some  winters.  At  that  time 
there  lived  at  Gardar  on  Akraness,  the  southern  boundary  of 
Borgfirth,  Thord,  son  of  Bodvar,  of  Bae,  brother  to  Gudny,  the 
mother  of  the  Sturlusons.  He  had  many  liegemen  about  the 
countrysides  neighbouring  on  his  nephew  Thord  Sturluson's 
godord  of  Snaefellsness,  and  realized  that  Thord's  influence  on 
them  had  the  effect  of  rendering  them  neglectful  of  debts  owing 
and  services  due  to  their  liege-lord,  so  he  handed  one  half  of  his 
godord  '  (the  godord  of  the  Lund-men)  to  Snorri  Sturlason  on 
condition  that  he  should  protect  his  liegemen  against  Thord  his 
brother.  But  when  Snorri  had  taken  this  charge  over,  Thord 
deemed  his  liegemen  were  still  more  ill-used  than  ever  they  were 
before  by  Snorri's  brother.2 

While  Snorri  dwelt  at  Borg  it  happened  that  a  merchant-man 
from  Orkney,  commanded  by  Thorkel  Walrus,  a  son  of  Kolbein 
Carle  and  nephew  of  the  Orkney  Bishop,  Biarni,  a  famous  poet, 
hove  into  Whitewater-haven,  in  Borgfirth,  and  wintered  in  Ice- 
land. The  Captain  took  quarters  for  the  winter  with  Snorri, 
most  likely  at  the  latter's  request,  but  failed  to  get  on  with  his 
host.  In  the  course  of  the  winter  Snorri  seized  a  certain  quantity 
of  flour  belonging  to  Thorkel  and,  in  his  capacity  of  godi,  exer- 
cised the  right  of  fixing  the  price  of  the  article;  but  Thorkel 
claimed  for  himself  the  privilege  of  selling  his  own  wares  at  his 
own  price.  The  flour  was  taken  from  the  store-house  (at  Borg) 
where  it  had  been  kept,  and  Thorkel  stood  by,  making  as  if  he 
knew  naught  of  what  was  going  on.  Snorri's  half-brother  Svein, 
lying  then  on  his  deathbed,  deprecated  this  proceeding  severely, 
saying  that  such  a  thing  would  not  have  been  done  if  he  had 
been  on  his  legs  and  adding  that  no  honour  would  accrue  to 
Snorri  from  this  seizure.  Next  summer  Thorkel  Walrus  slew 
the  deacon  Gudmund,  who  had  been  the  most  active  executor 
of  Snorri's  orders.  The  outraged  godi  answered  by  summoning 
to  him  his  brothers  Thord  and  Sighvat  and  urging  them  to  set 
on  the  disrespectful  Orkneyings  who,  in  the  meantime,  had  gone 

1  We  use  this  vernacular  technical  term  rather  than  attempting  any  Eng- 
lish translation  of  it,  when  the  domain  and  jurisdiction  of  a  secular  chief, 
godi,  is  in  question. 

2  Sturlunga,  i.  209-210;  Bisk.  S.,  i.  486. 


xxii  Introductory 

on  board  their  ship  and  lay  ready  to  depart  in  mid  stream  in 
Whitewater.  The  attack  failed,  and  the  Sturlungs  retired  dis- 
comfited. Thorkel  set  sail  for  the  main,  but  was  driven  by 
stress  of  weather  in  autumn  back  to  Eyrar  in  Olfus,  in  the  south 
of  Iceland,  an  easy  day's  journey  to  the  west  of  Oddi.  Imme- 
diately on  landing  Thorkel  rode  to  Oddi,  praying  for  Saemund's 
protection,  which  was  readily  granted,  chiefly  on  account  of 
Saemund's  friendship  for  Thorkel's  uncle,  Bishop  Biarni.  Three 
hired  assassins  sent  out  by  Snorri  failed  of  their  errand  and 
Thorkel  escaped  from  the  country  in  the  course  of  the  next 
summer.1 

After  some  years'  sojourn  at  Borg  Snorri,  having  taken  great 
fancy  to  the  church-stead  of  Reykholt,  the  family  seat  of  priest 
Magnus,  the  son  of  the  above-mentioned  Paul  Solvison,  managed 
to  obtain  the  consent  of  the  heirs  to  the  property  to  his  securing 
the  freehold  of  it.  This  he  effected  by  persuading  the  ageing 
priest  Magnus  with  his  wife  to  become  his  pensioners,  and  by 
promising  to  help  their  sons  to  become  men  of  such  quality  as 
circumstances  should  favour.2 

With  his  wife,  Herdis,  Snorri  had  two  children  who  reached 
years  of  maturity:  Hallbera,  the  eldest,  and  Jon  Murtr  (Small 
Fry)  the  youngest.3  The  marriage  was  not  a  success;  they  lived 
in  a  state  of  separation  possibly  from  the  time  that  Snorri  re- 
moved to  Reykholt,  as  Herdis  is  never  mentioned  in  connection 
with  that  house.  Snorri's  biographer  observes  discreet  silence 
on  the  subject.  But  in  describing  the  unhappy  Hallbera's  move- 
ments in  1229  he  states  that  she,  having  come  from  the  north, 
probably  in  company  with  her  husband  Kolbein  the  Young,  of 
Willow-moor  (VfSimyrr),  stayed  in  her  father's  booth  at  the 
Althing,  and  accompanied  him  to  Reykholt,  when  her  husband 
rode  away  and  deserted  her.  After  a  while  Snorri  had  her 
escorted  to  the  north  country  and  she  stayed  a  short  while  at 
her  home  at  Willow-moor  and  then  left  the  North  for  Borg  to 
live  with  her  mother.  This  shows  that  at  that  time,  at  any  rate, 
they  had  separated.4 

Snorri  must  have  removed  to  Reykholt  before  1209,  because 
that  year  Bishop  Gudmund,  of  Holar,  spent  the  winter  there 
with  him.5    '  He  now  became  a  great  chieftain  with  ample  means. 

1  Sturl.,  i.  210-211.  2  Ibid.,  21 1.  3  Ibid.,  i.  211. 

4  Ibid.,  i.  293.  5  Ibid.,  222-223. 


Introductory  xxi  i  i 

He  was  the  greatest  man  of  business  (fjargeymsluma^r).  He 
was  fickle  of  mind  in  respect  of  women,  and  had  children  with 
other  women  besides  Herdis:  a  son,  named  'Oraekia  by  Thurid, 
daughter  of  Hall,  son  of  Oraskia;  several  children  by  Gudrun, 
daughter  of  Hrein  Hermundson,  of  whom  Ingibjorg  alone 
reached  years  of  maturity;  Thordis,  by  a  woman  named 
Oddny.1 

About  1205  the  chieftainship  of  Snorri  was  further  increased 
by  his  receiving  as  a  gift  from  Thorstein  Ivarson  his  share  in  the 
so-called  Avellings'  godord,  or  chieftainship  of  Willowdale  and 
Midfirth,  in  the  north  country.  About  12 14  Snorri  was  called 
upon  to  settle  a  silly  quarrel  between  his  liegemen  (the  Avel- 
lings) of  Midfirth  and  of  Willowdale,  but  so  little  account  did 
they  make  of  the  authority  of  their  godi  that  before  his  very  face 
they  fell  to  fighting,  and  some  of  his  men  heaped  reproaches  on 
him  for  not  striking  in  and  settling  matters  by  force  of  weapons. 
However,  his  wary  attitude  resulted  in  his  succeeding  in  award- 
ing justice  to  offenders  and  settling  peace  between  the  angry 
factions  of  the  godord.2 

In  1 2 15  Snorri  was  elected  speaker-at-law,  at  the  early  age  of 
thirty-seven,  for  the  usual  term  of  three  years.  It  was  possibly 
during  his  first  year  of  office,  while  attending  to  his  duties  at  the 
Althing,  that  the  following  incident  happened.  Some  of  his  men 
went  to  a  heap  of  wood  which  belonged  to  Magnus  the  Good, 
a  sister's  son  of  Saemund  of  Oddi,  and  cut  for  themselves  clubs, 
'  which  then  it  was  customary  to  carry  in  going  to  the  courts.' 
The  cook  of  Magnus  objected  to  their  making  so  free  with  his 
master's  fuel,  and  a  scuffle  ensued.  Magnus  went  to  stay  the 
brawl  and  was  wounded.  Saemund,  his  uncle,  now  called  upon 
his  men  to  interfere,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  Snorri  summoned 
his  brothers  to  his  support,  and  presently  the  whole  assembly 
was  in  a  state  of  great  excitement,  taking  sides  according  to 
allegiances,  but  Saemund  showed  as  by  far  the  most  numerously 
attended  chief.  Thorvald  Gizur's  son  of  Hruni  went  between 
these  madcaps  and  brought  about  a  truce  to  last  while  the  con- 
tending sides  should  call  out  a  muster  of  men-at-arms  from  the 
country !  The  end,  however,  of  the  silly  affair  was  that  it  was 
agreed  that  Saemund  should  award  fines  on  the  misdemeanants, 

1   Sturl.,  i.  211-212;  Bisk.  S.,  i.  487.  a  Sturl.,  i.  229-231. 


xxiv  Introductory 

outlawry  being  excluded.  'These  brothers  (the  Sturlungs),' 
said  Ssemund,  when  the  matter  was  over,  '  are  so  overweening 
that  scarcely  any  man  is  able  fully  to  hold  his  own  against 
them.' 1 

In  1 216  Snorri  took  an  opportunity  of  revenging  himself  on 
Magnus  the  Good.  Jorun  the  Wealthy,  a  widow  who  lived  at 
Gufuness,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Reykiavik,  died  intestate, 
and  there  were  '  no  men  of  account '  lawfully  entitled  to  her 
property  as  heirs.  She  had  dwelt  within  the  godord  of  Magnus, 
and  he  proposed  to  appropriate  to  himself  the  bulk  of  her 
property,  but  to  leave  the  rest  to  such  of  her  helpless  heirs  as 
he  chose.  On  hearing  of  this,  Snorri  sent  one  Starkad  Snorri- 
son  south  into  the  neighbourhood  of  Gufuness  to  find  an  heir 
to  Jorun,  and  he  returned  with  a  certain  vagabond  called  Kod- 
ran,  '  whom  Snorri  called  the  heir  of  Jorun,'  and  who  handselled 
Snorri  his  case  in  respect  to  his  claim  to  Jorun's  wealth.  Coming 
with  a  band  of  eighty  men  suddenly  upon  Magnus,  Snorri  sum- 
moned him,  declaring  a  guilt  of  full  outlawry  (sk6ggangs  sok) 
against  him  and  charging  him  to  take  his  trial  at  the  Thing 
(local  court)  of  Thvera,  in  Borgfirth,  within  Snorri's  godord.  At 
this  Thing  Magnus  was  condemned  to  full  outlawry,  but  he 
appealed  to  the  Althing,  where  Snorri  himself  appeared  at  the 
head  of  a  band  of  six  hundred  armed  men,  eighty  of  whom  were 
'  all-shielded,'  and  where  he  was  supported  by  his  brothers  with 
a  large  following.  The  bishop  of  Skalholt,  Magnus  Einarson, 
came  forward  to  bring  about  peace  between  the  parties,  which 
was  effected  by  Magnus  the  Good's  giving  up  a  property  to  which 
he  had  no  right.  With  something  like  a  sigh  of  relief  Snorri's 
historian,  his  nephew,  Sturla  Thordson,  remarks  here  :  '  Snorri 
reaped  honour  from  this  affair,  and  through  this  matter  increased 
most  the  esteem  he  was  held  in  here  in  the  land.' 

'  Snorri,'  remarks  the  historian  further,  '  now  became  a  good 
Skald.  He  was  also  deft  at  anything  he  put  his  hand  to,  and 
gave  the  best  direction  about  anything  that  had  to  be  done.' 
About  this  time  he  made  a  poem  on  the  earl  Hakon  Galinn, 
and  the  earl  sent  gifts  in  return:  a  sword,  a  shield,  and  a  byrny. 
The  earl  wrote  to  Snorri  asking  him  to  come  abroad,  and  gave 
him  to  understand  that  he  would  do  great  honour  to  him  if  he 

1  Sturl.,  i.  234-235.  2  Ibid.,  i.  235. 


Introductory  xxv 

came.  Snorri  liked  the  idea  very  much,  but  just  at  the  same 
time  the  earl  died,  and  Snorri's  journey  abroad  was  deferred  for 
some  time.1 

In  the  summer  of  1218  Snorri  went  abroad  to  Norway, 
leaving  his  house  of  Reykholt  to  his  mother  to  manage,  and  all 
his  property  and  his  godord  in  the  charge  of  his  eldest  brother 
Thord.  The  year  before  he  had  married  his  daughter  Hallbera 
to  Ami  Unready  ('OreiSa),  the  son  of  Magnus  Amundison,  the 
newly  married  couple  taking  up  their  abode  at  Reykholt,  as 
Hallbera  would  live  nowhere  else.  They  separated  after  seven 
years  of  unhappiness.2 

In  Norway  Snorri  was  received  with  open  arms  by  Earl  (later 
Duke)  Skuli,  and  he  remained  with  the  Earl  through  the  winter. 
In  the  spring  following  he  went  east  to  Gautland  to  Lawman 
Askel  and  Christina  his  wife,  who  had  been  formerly  the  wife  of 
Hakon  Galinn.  At  the  request  of  Hakon,  Snorri  had  wrought 
a  poem  on  lady  Christina,  which  he  called  '  Andvaka,'  and  the 
lady  received  Snorri  very  cordially,  bestowing  on  him  many 
gifts,  amongst  others  the  standard  which  once  upon  a  time  had 
belonged  to  the  Swedish  king,  Eric  Knutson.  In  the  autumn 
Snorri  returned  to  Earl  Skuli  and  tarried  another  winter  with 
him.  During  this  stay  the  sovereign  Icelandic  '  godi '  allowed 
himself  to  be  appointed  a  page  or  gentleman  in  waiting  at  the 
tables  of  Earl  Skuli  and  King  Hakon,3  apparently  accounting 
the  promotion  a  great  distinction. 

In  order  to  understand  more  clearly  the  attitude  of  Snorri  at 
the  court  of  Norway  we  must  give  a  short  account  of  incidents 
which  brought  the  family  of  Oddi  into  a  hostile  relation  with 
the  commercial  community  of  Biorgvin  in  particular.  In  the 
year  1215  Saemund  of  Oddi  and  Thorvald  Gizurson  of  Hruni 
had,  according  to  law,  set  up  a  fixed  price  list  for  the  wares 
that  certain  Norwegian  traders  from  Biorgvin  had  brought  to 
Eyrar.  The  merchants  must  have  had  some  ground  of  com- 
plaint, for  the  matter  roused  much  indignation  in  Biorgvin. 
Next  year  (12 16)  Paul,  the  son  of  Saemund,  went  to  Norway. 
In  Biorgvin  he  was  received  with  much  insulting  mockery.  The 
Biorgvinians  reproached  him  with  aiming  at  becoming  Earl,  or 
even  King,  of  Norway,  and  some  of  them  assumed  a  threatening 

'  Sturl.,  i.  235.  2  Ibid.,  i.  237,  266.  3  Ibid.,  237-238,  243. 


xxvi  Introductory 

attitude,  maintaining  that  it  was  unwise  to  wait  in  quiet  until  he 
should  have  got  up  one  more  revolutionary  band  in  Norway.1 
Of  course,  the  young  man  was  quite  innocent  of  any  such  inten- 
tion, but  the  reproaches  stung  him  the  more  keenly  that  it  was 
a  well-known  fact  that  he  was  the  great-grandson  of  Thora,  a 
daughter  of  Magnus  Barefoot,  King  of  Norway. 

In  order  to  escape  further  insults  from  the  Borgvinians,  Paul 
took  berth  in  a  ship  of  burden  for  Thrandheim,  where  he  pro- 
posed to  pay  his  respects  to  King  Ingi  Bardson.  Overtaken  by 
storm  off  the  Cape  of  Stad  the  ship  was  lost  with  all  hands  on 
board.  When  Saemund  heard  the  news  of  his  son's  treatment 
and  tragic  end  he  was  excessively  grieved  and  incensed,  and 
would  have  it  that  the  men  of  Biorgvin  had  been  instrumental 
in  the  fate  of  his  son.  At  the  time  it  so  happened  that  some 
merchants  from  Biorgvin  again  were  engaged  in  business  at 
Eyrar.  So  Saemund,  at  the  head  of  a  large  gathering  of  armed 
men,  peremptorily  demanded  of  these  innocent  tradesmen  that 
they  should  by  way  of  atonement  pay  him  as  high  a  fine  as  he 
himself  should  fix.  Many  men  of  moderation  and  good-will  in- 
terceded on  behalf  of  the  merchants,  in  particular,  Saemund's 
noble-minded  brother,  Orm,  '  the  fairest  minded  of  all  the  men 
of  Oddi.'  This  was  of  no  avail,  and  Saemund  seized  by  force  a 
large  quantity  of  goods  from  the  traders  in  compensation  for  his 
son.2  In  the  year  1218  there  hove  into  the  Westmen's  isles  a 
large  ocean-goer  from  Hardanger,  in  Norway,  the  masters  of 
which  were  named  Grimar  and  Sorli.  '  On  these  as  on  others ' 
(i.e.,  from  Norway)  Saemund  levied  a  fine  that  suited  his  lust  for 
revenge  and  wealth.  Sorli  was  a  winter  guest  of  Saemund's 
brother  Orm,  who  dwelt  at  Brei:Sab61sta''S  (Broadlairstead)  in 
the  Fleet-lithe.  He  had  bought  from  these  men  timber  for 
church  repairs,  and  when  he  went  out  to  the  islands  to  fetch  his 
purchase,  Grimar  seized  the  opportunity  of  wreaking  his  revenge 
on  the  Oddi  family,  and  slew  Orm  and  his  son,  both  not  only 
perfectly  innocent,  but  Orm  noted  for  his  intercession  with  his 
brother  in  favour  of  the  Norwegians.3   Grimar's  misdeed  natur- 

1  Sturl.,  i.  236. 

2  The  goods  confiscated  amounted  to  the  value  of  three-hundred  hundreds 
of  ells  =  3x  120  ellsx  120  =  43,200  ells,  making  in  present  currency,  if  the 
value  of  an  ell  of  wadmal  was  is.  6d.,  the  exorbitant  fine  of  ^3,240. 

3  Sturl.,  i.  236-237;  Hakon's  Saga,  pp.  49-50. 


Introductory  xxvii 

ally  served  to  add  fuel  to  a  fire  which  before  was  burning  high 
enough.  In  revenge  for  Orm,  his  son-in-law,  Biorn  Thorvaldson, 
of  Hruni,  had  a  Norwegian  who  had  sought  asylum  in  the 
church  of  Bjarg,  in  Midfirth,  dragged  out  of  it  and  slaughtered.1 
Snorri  Sturlason  knew  nothing  of  the  slaying  of  Orm  till  he 
came  to  Norway.  In  that  country  opinion  was  as  severely  con- 
demnatory of  Sasmund's  outrageous  proceedings  as  those  in 
authority  were  unwilling  to  make  an  atonement  for  Orm.  The 
rulers  of  Norway  now  were  Earl  Skuli  and  his  young  son-in-law, 
Hakon  Hakonson,  the  King  (12 17-1263).  Indignation  in  Nor- 
way went  so  high  that  an  armed  naval  expedition  to  Iceland 
was  decided  on  by  Skuli.  But  many  of  the  wisest  men  in  Nor- 
way were  unfavourable  to  such  an  undertaking,  and  advanced 
many  reasons  against  it;  Snorri  himself  in  particular.  He  main- 
tained that  a  wiser  course  would  be  to  secure  the  friendship  of 
the  best  men  in  Iceland,  and  added  that  he  would  be  able  to 
persuade  the  Icelanders  that  the  best  thing  to  do  would  be  to 
yield  obedience  to  the  lords  (rulers)  of  Norway.  With  the  ex- 
ception of  Saemund,  he  averred,  there  were  in  Iceland  no  men 
of  greater  influence  than  his  brothers,  and  they  would  readily 
follow  his  counsel  when  he  came  upon  the  scene.  Earl  Skuli's 
militant  ardour  was  lulled  by  Snorri's  persuasive  language,  and 
the  Earl  suggested  that  the  Icelanders  should  ask  King  Hakon 
to  pray  him,  on  their  behalf,  to  give  up  the  expedition.  The 
King  was  young,  and  Dagfinn,  his  chief  counsellor,  the  greatest 
friend  of  the  Icelanders,  was  got  by  Snorri  and  other  Icelanders 
to  persuade  Skuli  to  desist  from  the  proposed  raid.  A  meeting 
between  Skuli  and  the  King  was  arranged,  at  which  Hakon 
pleaded  the  cause  of  peace  so  earnestly  that  Skuli  gave  up  his 
plan.  The  Earl  and  the  King  made  Snorri  their  '  landed-man,' 
and  '  that  was,'  says  the  historian,  his  nephew,  '  chiefly  arranged 
between  Snorri  and  the  Earl.'  'Now  for  the  first  time  was  it 
suggested  by  the  Earl  that  Snorri  should  bring  about  the  subjec- 
tion of  Iceland  to  Norway,'  and  Snorri  was  charged  with  trying 
to  bring  the  Icelanders  into  the  obedience  the  Norwegian  rulers 
wanted  of  them ;  he  was  also  to  send  to  Norway  his  son,  Jon 
Small  Fry  (Murtr),  to  be  a  hostage  with  Skuli  '  until  that  which 
was  bespoken  should  come  to  an  issue.'" 

1   Sturl.,  i.  237.  2  Ibid.,  i.  243-244;  Ilakon's  Saga,  pp.  51-52. 


xx  vi  i  i  In  troductory 

The  statement  that  Snorri  was  created  a  landed-man  (cf.  index, 
iii,  s.  v.)  at  the  same  time  that  it  was  proposed  to  him  '  to  bring 
about  the  subjection  of  Iceland  to  Norway'  is  much  more 
significant  than  critics  of  the  history  of  this  period  seem  to  be 
aware  of.  The  bearer  of  the  title  was  the  highest  administrative 
official  in  the  state,  and  his  principal  duty  was  to  watch  over 
the  political  interests  of  the  Kingdom  (of  course,  he  had  other 
duties — fiscal,  military,  etc. — to  attend  to).  Snorri's  appoint- 
ment had  nothing  to  do  with  Norway.  The  title  seems  never  to 
have  meant  a  mere  honorary  distinction  with  no  official  duties 
attached  to  it.  The  bestowal  of  it  must  have  been  closely  con- 
nected with  the  political  plan  unfolded  by  Skuli  and  Hakon ; 
for  how,  from  their  point  of  view,  could  such  an  undertaking  be 
embarked  upon  with  a  prospect  of  success  but  by  one  who  was 
raised  by  the  King  himself  to  a  state  of  dignity  above  the  level 
of  his  fellow  commoners?  We  know  what  happened  when  a 
landed-man  was  created.  He  took  the  landed-man's  oath  to  the 
King,  and  in  return  for  yielding  the  King  certain  services  he 
received  at  his  hands  lands  for  his  maintenance.  In  Snorri's 
case,  where  were  the  lands  ?  To  this  there  seems  to  be  only  one 
answer:  his  own  lands  in  Borgfirth  in  Iceland,  which,  'merely 
as  a  matter  of  form,'  he  gave  up  to  the  King  who  again  instantly 
conferred  them  on  Snorri,  as  a  royal  grant,  all  in  strict  analogy 
with  the  precedence  of  Harald  Fairhair's  treatment  of  hersirs 
and  kinglets  who  gave  themselves  up  to  him  and  became  his 
landed-men.  This  would  naturally  explain  both  why  Hakon 
accounted  it  a  treason  in  Snorri  to  go  to  Iceland,  1239,  in  spite 
of  the  King's  prohibition,  and  also  why,  after  Snorri's  death,  he 
claimed  as  his  Snorri's  lands  in  Borgfirth  and  elsewhere.  If  this 
explanation  of  an  hitherto  entirely  neglected  incident  in  Snorri's 
life  is  true,  it  must  be  confessed  that  he  committed  something 
more  than  a  blunder — he  forged  his  own  fate. 

Snorri  set  sail  for  Iceland  (1220)  in  a  ship,  the  gift  of  Earl 
Skuli,  who  had  honoured  him  with  fifteen  great  gifts  in  all. 
In  his  ship,  unmasted  by  stress  of  weather,  he  arrived  in  the 
Westmen's  Isles  late  in  the  season.  When  the  news  spread  of 
his  arrival,  and  all  the  honours  that  had  been  heaped  upon  him 
in  Norway,  the  men  of  the  south  country,  especially  the  allies 
of  Saemund,  received  him  with  much  ill-will,  suspecting  that  he 
was  commissioned  to  oppose  all  endeavours  on  the  part  of  the 


Introductory  xxix 

kinsmen  of  Orm  to  obtain  atonement  for  him.  The  south- 
landers  made  much  mockery  of  the  poems  he  had  wrought  in 
honour  of  Skuli,  a  parody  of  one  stanza  being  still  preserved. 
Snorri  landed  with  twelve  men  all  bearing  fine  ornamented  shields 
and  went  on  his  journey  to  Skalholt  where  he  was  a  guest  of 
Bishop  Magnus  Gizurson.  Here  he  was  overtaken  by  Biorn 
Thorvaldson,  Orm  Jonsson's  son-in-law,  who  went  straight  up 
to  Snorri  asking  if  he  meant  to  debar  his  relatives  from  obtaining 
honourable  atonement  for  Orm.  Snorri  disavowed  any  such  in- 
tention ;  but  Biorn,  not  being  satisfied  with  the  answer,  assumed 
a  threatening  attitude,  whereat  the  Bishop  interceded  and 
averted  acts  of  violence ;  their  parting  greetings  were  curt  and 
Snorri  proceeded  to  his  manor  of  Reykholt.1 

It  was  a  custom  of  Sagmund's  to  give  a  banquet  every  year  on 
the  day  of  the  Patron  Saint  of  the  church  of  Oddi,  St.  Nicholas, 
December  6th,  to  the  more  notable  men  of  the  neighbourhood 
who  were  in  friendship  with  him.  Such  a  feast  he  also  gave 
1 221  and  invited  to  it,  among  others,  Lopt,  his  nephew,  the  son 
of  Bishop  Paul,  and  Biorn,  son  of  Thorvald,  the  son-in-law 
of  Saemund's  brother  Orm.  The  drinking  was  hard,  and  the 
tongue  was  loose;  and  between  Lopt  and  Biorn  there  arose 
utterances  and  repartees  of  exasperating  character,  so  much  so, 
that  they  parted  the  greatest  of  foes.  Lopt  sent  men  to  Snorri 
to  complain  of  his  case  'and  it  is  the  say  of  some  men  that 
Snorri  letted  Lopt  but  little  from  rising  up  against  Biorn.'  In 
the  following  spring  Snorri  sent  his  man  Valgard,  the  son  of 
Styrmir,  south  to  Lopt  where  he  tarried  for  a  while.  At  that 
time  Lopt  sent  a  man  to  Biorn  at  Brei^abolsta^  to  announce 
to  him  that  he  intended  to  pay  him  a  visit  in  the  second  week 
of  summer,  when  he  proposed  that  an  end  should  be  put  to  their 
quarrel.  Lopt  kept  his  word,  though  not  punctually  as  to  time, 
fought  with  Biorn  and  slew  him,  June  17th.  After  this  meeting 
Lopt  went  to  see  Snorri  Sturlason  who  promised  him  his  sup- 
port in  the  blood-suit,  if  Saemund,  who  was  Lopt's  uncle,  and 
other  chiefs  should  side  with  him.  The  reason  for  Snorri's  atti- 
tude was  that  the  family  of  Orm,  the  men  of  Oddi,  in  common 
with  the  majority  of  the  Southlanders,  were  hated  of  him  ever 
since  their  unfriendly  reception  of  him  on  his  return  from  Nor- 

1  Sturl.,  i.  244-245. 


xxx  Introductory 

way.  Snorri's  action  was,  perhaps,  also  prompted  by  a  desire  to 
be  able  to  report  to  Earl  Skuli  that  he  had  effected  revenge  for 
the  innocent  Norwegian  whom  Biorn  had  killed  north  in  Mid- 
firth,  which  would  be  taken  as  a  proof  of  his  looking  after  the 
interests  of  Norway  in  Iceland.  But  although  Snorri  had  given 
his  promise  of  support  to  Lopt,  his  brother  Sighvat  managed  to 
persuade  him  to  leave  him  in  the  lurch,  and  the  end  of  the  matter 
was  that  Lopt  had  to  hand  over  to  Thorvald  Gizurson,  Biorn's 
father,  self-judgement  in  the  case.1  This  fickleness  on  Snorri's 
part  was  evidently  a  topic  of  conversation  and  was  looked  upon 
as  evidence  of  weakness  of  character,  as  his  brother  Sighvat 
even  hinted  afterwards  to  his  friends  :  '  When  we  met,  Snorri 
had  an  axe  aloft  over  his  shoulder  so  keen  that  it  looked  as  if 
it  would  cut  everything  through;  then  I  took  forth  from  my 
pouch  a  hone  and  drew  it  along  the  edge,  and  so  blunt  was  the 
axe  that  it  smiled  on  me  before  we  parted.'2 

This  same  year  (1221)  Snorri  sent  his  son  Jon  Small  Fry  to 
Earl  Skuli  according  to  the  compact  of  the  preceding  year. 
Jon  was  accompanied  by  Ami  Unready,  Snorri's  son-in-law, 
and  he  proceeded  to  the  court  of  King  Hakon  who  was  a  bosom 
friend  of  Ami's.3 

In  1222  Snorri  was  elected  Speaker  a  second  time  and  was 
re-elected  three  times  successively,  if  not  four,  which  shows  in 
how  high  an  esteem  he  was  held  for  his  knowledge  of  the  law, 
and  the  impartiality  of  his  decisions. 

In  the  autumn  of  this  year,  on  the  7th  November,  Ssemund 
Jonson  died  at  Oddi,  and  declared  as  his  last  will  that  his 
daughter  Solveig  should  take  an  equal  share  with  his  sons  in 
his  property.  Solveig  went  to  her  mother,  Valgerd  of  Keldur, 
and  mother  and  daughter  placed  themselves  under  the  guardian- 
ship of  Thorvald  Gizurson  in  respect  of  Solveig's  heirship,  while 
the  many  sons  of  Saemund  agreed  to  ask  Snorri  Sturluson  to 
share  the  property  among  them,  binding  themselves  to  abide 
by  his  decisions.  He  went  to  the  south  accompanied  by  a  brave 
following,  and  on  his  way  put  up  at  Keldur,  where  he  was 
lovingly  entertained  by  mother  and  daughter.  Solveig  accom- 
panied him  to  Oddi,  and  Snorri  took  much  delight  in  convers- 
ing with  her.    On  their  way  they  met  a  woman,  accompanied 

1  Sturl.,  i.  245-250.  -  Ibid.,  i.  249.  3  Ibid.,  i.  244,  251. 


Introductory  xxxi 

by  a  single  male  attendant;  she  had  on  a  felt  cloak,  the  felt 
being  '  sewed  to  her  head '  and  serving  for  a  hood.  This 
woman  was  Hallveig,  the  daughter  of  Orm  Jonson,  a  niece  of 
Saemund  of  Oddi,  and  widow  of  Biorn  Thorvaldson,  who,  as  we 
have  seen,  was  slain  by  Lopt  Paulson;  she  was  accounted  of 
as  the  wealthiest  woman  in  Iceland.  Snorri  made  merry  over 
her  odd  way  of  travelling;  but  later  on,  Hallveig's  wealth 
taught  him  to  turn  towards  her  more  sympathetic  regards.  At 
Oddi  Snorri  treated  Solveig  with  such  favour  that  he  allowed 
her  to  have  whatever  she  chose  of  the  inheritance  within  the 
limits  of  her  share. 

The  same  year  Solveig  married  Sturla,  son  of  Sigh  vat, 
Snorri's  nephew.  'And  when  Snorri  heard  of  the  marriage,' 
says  the  historian, '  he  was  unpleasantly  surprised  (varS  far  um), 
and  men  would  have  it  that  his  intentions  had  pointed  in  an- 
other direction,'  a  hint  that  Snorri  had  intended  to  marry  the 
fascinating  girl  himself,  perhaps  more  Danico.x 

This  same  year  (1223)  Snorri  brought  forward  against  the 
turbulent  chief  Thorvald  Snorrison  of  Waterfirth  a  charge  for 
brigandage.  Snorri's  son  Orsekia,  a  lad  of  fourteen,  prosecuted 
the  case  with  such  effect,  that  Thorvald  was  sentenced  to  out- 
lawry with  forfeiture  of  all  his  property  and  his  godord  to  boot. 
This,  says  the  historian,  was  regarded  as  news  of  the  gravest 
import,  and  likely  to  lead  to  the  greatest  trouble.  Snorri's 
nephew,  Sturla  Sighvatson  had  entered  upon  the  most  intimate 
friendship  with  Thorvald,  and  now  besought  his  father  to  inter- 
cede for  the  condemned  brigand  chief  with  Snorri,  and  have  the 
sentence  altogether  annulled.  In  this  Sighvat  succeeded  so  well, 
that  Snorri  consented  to  full  reprieve  in  respect  of  the  outlawry, 
and  to  a  private  understanding  with  his  brother,  that  Thorvald 
should  neither  pay  fine  nor  forfeit  his  godord. — Shortly  after- 
wards (1 224)  Thorvald  sent  friendly  words  to  Snorri  to  the  effect 
that  his  desire  was  to  become  allied  to  him  by  marriage,  and 
thus  bound  to  him  by  firm  bonds  of  friendship.  To  this  Snorri 
returned  such  a  favourable  answer  that  Thorvald  deemed  he 
understood  that  Snorri  would  be  ready  to  advance  his  honours 
in  every  way,  provided  he  would  bind  himself  to  do  whatever 
Snorri  demanded  of  him,  no  matter  with  whom  they  should 

1  Sturl.,  i.  262-263. 


xxxii  Introductory 

have  to  deal.  In  the  spring  Thorvald  went  south  to  Borgfirth, 
Snorri's  own  country,  and  wooed  formally  Snorri's  daughter 
Thordis,  to  which  Snorri  readily  consented,  and  their  marriage 
was  celebrated  with  due  pomp  in  the  autumn  of  the  same  year.1 

In  the  spring  of  this  same  year  Snorri  had  ridden  from  Borg- 
firth into  the  south  country,  in  which  journey  he  paid  a  visit  to 
Thorvald  Gizurson  of  Hruni,  '  and  much  the  two  had  to  talk  of.' 
Shortly  before  this  had  died  the  very  wealthy  magnate  Kolskegg 
Ericson  from  Dale  '  below  the  Isles'-Fells '  (undir  Eyjafjollum) ; 
his  sister  and  heiress  was  Thora  who  had  been  a  concubine  of 
the  above-mentioned  Orm  Jonson,  and  with  whom  she  had  had 
a  son,  Jon,  and  the  daughter  Hallveig,  whom  Snorri  had  met 
the  year  before  and  made  some  fun  of.  Hallveig  was  to  inherit 
her  due  portion  of  her  mother's  great  property.  The  two  chiefs 
bound  themselves  in  mutual  friendship,  by  Snorri  promising  his 
base-born  daughter  Ingibiorg  in  marriage  to  Gizur  Thorvald's 
son,  while  Thorvald  bound  himself  to  persuade  his  widowed 
daughter-in-law,  Hallveig,  to  join  Snorri  and  become  his  house- 
keeper (fara  til  bias  meS  h<5num).  It  was  bespoken  that  the 
wedding  of  Gizur  and  Ingibiorg  should  take  place  at  Reykholt 
in  the  autumn  (1224).  The  wedding  feast  was  a  most  glorious 
one.  Just  before  the  wedding  took  place  Snorri  brought  to  his 
house  Hallveig  and  made  a  contract  with  her  that  each  should 
own  one  half  of  their  joint  property.  He  also  undertook  to 
manage  the  property  of  her  sons  Klasng  and  Orm.  Thord, 
Snorri's  brother,  was  heavy  of  heart  about  this  matter,  prophesy- 
ing that  from  it  Snorri  would  come  to  the  end  of  his  days,  as 
indeed  in  a  way  came  true.2 

Lopt,  who  at  the  instigation  of  Snorri  had  set  upon  and  slain 
Biorn  Thorvaldson,  and  had  consequently  been  banished  from 
the  country  for  three  years,  now  came  back  again  before  having 
served  his  full  term  of  exile;  and  finding  the  country-sides  of  his 
own  kindred  in  the  south  too  unsafe  for  him,  still  an  outlaw, 
to  sojourn  in,  he  went  to  Snorri,  who  so  managed  Lopt's  affairs 
as  to  find  him  an  estate  in  the  west  country,  and  a  purchaser 
to  his  own  manor,  Skard,  in  the  South-land.3 

At  this  time  some  estrangement  prevailed  between  the  brothers 
Thord  and  Snorri,  the  cause  being  their  maternal  inheritance. 

1  Sturl.,  i.  263-264.  -  Ibid.,  i.  266.  3  Ibid.,  i.  265. 


Introductory  xxxiii 

Gudny,  their  mother,  who  died  in  Snorri's  house,  had  bequeathed 
all  her  chattels  to  her  grandson,  Sturla  Thord's  son  (the  author 
of  Islendinga  Saga),  but  the  whole  of  it,  which  was  of  great 
value,  Snorri  had  appropriated  to  himself. 

Snorri,  knowing  the  peaceful  ways  of  Thord,  invited  him  to  a 
feast  after  the  Althing  (1224),  and  told  him  he  wanted  to  drop 
all  estrangement  and  take  up  loving  brotherhood,  adding  that 
they  would  never  come  to  quarrel  over  money  matters.    But  he 
hinted  that  his  nephew  Sturla  Sighvatson  stood  in  the  way  of 
their  honour,  in  that  Sighvat,  who  had  kept  to  himself,  ever  since 
the  death  of  their  father,  the  godord  of  the  'Snorrungs'  (Snorri 
godi's  kin),  had  now  given  it  to  his  son  Sturla  as  a  marriage  settle- 
ment.1 The  formal  claim  to  the  godord  was  made  at  the  Althing, 
1225,  by  Snorri,  who  demanded  his  nephew's  consent  to  his  de- 
ciding the  case  in  question  alone.   Besides  by  others,  Snorri  was 
supported  by  his  brother  Thord  in  this  matter;  but  Sturla  answered 
that  he  would  not  concede  sole  decision  to  his  uncle,  the  less  so 
that  it  came  to  his  father  to  answer  the  claim,  for  from  him  he  had 
received  the  godord.2  Out  of  this  great  enmity  arose  between  all 
these  kinsmen.   In  1227  Thord  Sturluson  formally  '  took  up '  the 
ancestral  godord  of  the  Snorrungs,  retaining  one  third  of  it  for 
himself,  but  the  other  two  thirds  of  it  were  appropriated  by  Jon 
Snorrison,  his  nephew.  Thord's  honest  meaning  was  that  he,  with 
his  two  brothers  Sighvat  and  Snorri,  should  share  it  equally.   As 
he  purposed  not  to  ride  to  the  Althing  so  as  to  be  present  at 
the  beginning  of  it,  he  sent  his  son  Sturla  to  his  brother  Snorri 
'  with  his  godords,'  i.e.,  leaving  his  thing-  (or  liege-)  men  in  his 
brother's  hands.  On  24th  June  Sturla  Sighvatson  went  with  an 
armed  band  to  the  house  of  Thord,  committing  murderous  out- 
rages on  the  household,  but  sternly  enjoining  respect  for  his 
uncle's  person.     Sturla,  according  to   his  own   men,  seemed 
heartily  ashamed  of  his  performance,  and  instead  of  carrying 
further  his  deeds  of  outrage  he  sent  a  proposal  of  truce  to  his 
uncle  which  was  accepted  and  fixed  to  last  till  midsummer. 
Immediately  after  this  Thord  rode  to  the  Thing  and  told  his 
brother  Snorri  how  he  had  been  treated.    Snorri  offered  him  to 
proceed  with   an  armed   host  at  once  against  his  turbulent 
nephew,  but  Thord  declined  the  service  while  the  truce  was 

1   Sturl.,  i.  265.  2  Ibid.,  i.  271-272. 

VI.  C 


xxxiv  Introductory 

still  in  force.1  The  affair  was  submitted  to  arbitration  and  Sturla 
had  to  pay  heavy  damages  for  what  he  himself  even  called  '  a 
foolish  outrage'  (1228).2 

In  1228  a  new  alliance  by  marriage  gave  fresh  increase  to 
Snorri's  already  wellnigh  peerless  power  and  influence.  Kolbein 
the  young,  son  of  Arnor  Tumison,  a  great  chieftain  in  Skaga- 
firth  in  the  north  country,  wooed  for  wife  Snorri's  daughter 
Hallbera,  the  divorced  wife  of  Ami  Unready,  and  they  were 
married  immediately  after  the  betrothals.  Hallbera  went  to  the 
north  with  her  husband  and  died  after  three  years  of  another 
unhappy  marriage.  This  year,  Snorri,  who  had  been  a  second 
time  Speaker-at-law  since  1222,  and  continued  in  office  till  1231, 
rode  '  as  usual '  to  the  Althing.  It  was  generally  supposed  that 
he  and  Sighvat  would  discuss  the  sore  matter  of  the  godord, 
but  nothing  happened,  although  Thorvald  of  Waterfirth,  Snorri's 
son-in-law,  made  an  attempt  to  bring  the  matter  to  a  head.  A 
story  is  told  of  Snorri,  after  his  return  to  Reykholt  how,  when 
sitting  with  his  favourites  in  his  bath,  he  was  congratulated  on 
being  a  peerless  chieftain  in  the  land,  no  lord  therein  being 
in  a  position  to  contend  with  him  on  account  of  his  powerful 
marriage  alliances.  Snorri  accepted  the  compliment,  saying  that 
his  kinsmen-in-law  were  no  puppets.  But  when  the  priest,  Sturla 
Bardson,  who  had  kept  watch  at  the  bath,  led  Snorri  home,  he 
sang  so  that  Snorri  might  hear: 

You  have  but  such  alliance 
As  had  in  ancient  story 
The  famous  lord  of  Hleidra — 
Iniquity  breeds  evil.3 

This  summer  Snorri  made  earnest  of  settling  the  affair  of  the 
godord  and  went  to  see  his  brother  Thord  and  told  him  he 
purposed  to  march  with  a  band  into  the  Dales  (up  from  Broad- 
firth),  where  Sturla  Sighvatson  held  sway,  and  Thord  agreed  to 
join  him  in  order  '  to  mend  matters  between  them.'  Snorri  went 
with  some  360  men,  but  Thord  sent  word  to  Sturla  who  the 
year  before  had  paid  Thord  the  visit  described  above,  to  warn 
him  not  to  be  in  his  uncle's  (Snorri's)  way.    Sturla  took  the  hint 

1  Sturl.,  i.  276-277.  2  Ibid.,  i.  27S-279. 

3  Sturl.,  i.  279-280. — '  Lord  of  Hleidra ' :  Rolf  Kraki,  King  of  Denmark, 
betrayed  by  his  vassal-King  HjbrvarS,  through  the  machination  of  his  wife 
Skuld,  Hrolfs  half-elfin  sister,  Fornaldarsogur,  i.  96-109. 


Introductory  xxxv 

and  left  his  manor  of  Saudafell  in  good  time.  But  Snorri  sum- 
moned together  a  meeting  of  Sturla's  Thingmen,  and  took  oaths 
of  them  whereby  they  all  declared  themselves  liegemen  of  Snorri.1 

Thorvald  Snorrison  of  Waterfirth,  Snorri  Sturluson's  son-in- 
law,  was  about  the  vilest  character  in  the  Sturlung  drama.  His 
neighbouring  godi,  Hrafn  Sveinbiornson  of  Eyr,  in  the  west  of 
Iceland,  was  without  exception  the  noblest  type  of  man  in  Ice- 
land at  the  same  time.  He  was  exceedingly  popular,  and  very 
powerful  through  the  multitude  of  his  liegemen.  Thorvald  bore 
him  implacable  hatred  for  no  other  cause  than  his  goodness 
and  greatness,  and  after  a  long  series  of  insulting  acts,  and  at- 
tempts on  Hrafn's  life,  succeeded  at  last  to  surround  him  in  his 
house  and  slay  him,  12 13.  For  fifteen  years  the  sons  of  Hrafn 
maintained  themselvesinspiteof  Thorvald's  ceaseless  endeavours 
to  put  an  end  to  their  existence,  and  this  year,  1228,  they  suc- 
ceeded at  last  in  ridding  themselves  of  him  by  burning  him  to 
death  within  the  homestead  of  Gillistead.  After  the  deed  they 
set  speedily  off,  throwing  themselves  under  the  protection  first 
of  Sturla  Sighvatson,  and  then  of  Sighvat  his  father,  in  the  north 
country.  In  revenge  for  this  act  of  Sturla's,  the  sons  of  Thor- 
vald, Thord  and  Snorri,  went  with  an  armed  band  to  Saudafell, 
Sturla's  manor  in  the  Dales,  where,  in  his  absence,  they  com- 
mitted the  most  brutal  excesses,  robbery,  maiming,  and  man- 
slaughters. Sturla  suspected  his  uncle  of  Reykholt  to  have  had 
a  hand  in  the  dreadful  deed,  and  Snorri's  own  and  other  poets' 
utterances  on  the  event  would  tend  to  show  that  Snorri  was  not 
an  utter  stranger  to  the  expedition  from  the  beginning,  though 
he  must  be  acquitted  of  all  responsibility  for  the  execution  of  it. 
The  sons  of  Hrafn  were  prosecuted  under  Snorri's  auspices  by 
his  son  Jon  Small  Fry  and  were  sentenced  guilty.  The  sons  of 
Thorvald  of  Waterfirth  were  also  proceeded  against  and  sen- 
tenced guilty  of  brigandage.  Execution  courts  were  to  finish 
these  affairs,  but  were  not  called  into  action.2 

The  hostilities  between  the  sons  of  Thorvald  and  Sturla  con- 
cluded nominally  by  his  inflicting  heavy  fines  on  them,  under 
conceded  self-award,  at  Holt  in  Onundfirth,  1230.3 

During  the  winter,  1 229-1 230,  Sturla  kept  quiet  and  sat  at 
home,  and  now  the  bitterest  enmity  between  him  and  his  uncle 

1  Sturl.,  i.  280-281.      a  Ibid.,  i.  181-186,  285-292.      3  Ibid.,  i.  297-29S. 


xxxvi  Introductory 

Snorri '  began  somewhat  to  abate.'  That  summer  Snorri  did  not 
ride  to  the  Thing,  but  sent  as  deputy  with  the  speakership-at- 
law,  priest  Styrmir  the  son  of  Kari,  historian  and  friend  of  Snorri, 
and  perhaps  an  inmate  of  his  house  at  this  time.  'Now,'  says 
the  historian,  Sturla  Thordson,  'matters  began  to  amend  between 
Snorri  and  Sturla,  and  Sturla  was  frequently  at  Reykholt  and 
took  great  interest  in  having  Saga-copies  taken  of  the  books 
which  Snorri  composed.1 

In  1229  Snorri's  son,  Jon  Small  Fry,  having  had  some  dis- 
agreement with  his  father  respecting  a  marriage  settlement  for 
him,  for  he  had  purposed  to  woo  him  for  wife  Helga  the 
daughter  of  Ssemund  Jonson,  decided  to  go  to  Norway.  His 
father  gave  in  on  the  point  of  dispute,  but  Jon  went  abroad  as 
he  had  purposed,  and  repaired  to  Earl  Skuli,  who  received  him 
in  a  right  friendly  wise,  appointing  him  one  of  his  body-guard 
and  page-in-waiting  at  his  table,  thus  distinguishing  the  young 
man  of  little  worth  in  the  same  manner  as  his  illustrious  father 
some  years  before.  Whether  Jon  acted  under  his  father's  advice 
or  not,  we  cannot  tell;  if  he  did,  his  reception  at  Skuli's  court 
would  seem  to  indicate  that  the  good  understanding  between 
Snorri  and  Skuli  still  held  on,  though  the  'landed-man'  of 
Reykholt  had  done  nothing  in  redemption  of  his  pledge.  This 
youth  of  intemperate  habits  had  already  before  spent  three  years 
(1 221-12  24)  at  the  court  of  Earl  Skuli,  under  the  contract  made 
by  his  father,  1220  (p.  xxv).  Jon  and  Gizur  Thorvaldson, 
Snorri's  son-in-law,  spent  the  festive  Yule  season  with  King 
Hakon,  and  one  evening,  as  they  were  going  to  bed,  Jon,  being 
drunk  and  disorderly,  came  to  words  with  Olaf  Black-Poet,  who 
was  living  on  what  alms  Jon,  himself  pinched  for  money,  could 
afford  him.  Jon  seized  a  stick  and  struck  Olaf,  whereupon  Gizur 
laid  hands  on  him  and  held  him  while  Olaf,  catching  up  a 
'  hand-axe,'  drove  it  into  the  head  of  Jon,  and  gave  him  a  wound, 
'apparently  not  a  great  one.'  Jon  turned  swiftly,  asking  Gizur 
'  why  he  held  him  under  blow.'  Olaf  escaped  into  the  darkness 
of  night.   Heedless  of  himself  Jon  went  on  drinking,  and  wound 

1  'At  lata  rita  soguboekr  eptir  bokum  J?eim  er  Snorri  setti  saman,' 
literally :  to  have  writ  Saga-books  after  the  books  that  Snorri  put  together. 
I  do  not  see  that  this  means  anything  more  than  that  Sturla  laid  himself 
out  for  securing  for  his  library  copies  of  his  uncle's  historical  (and  other?) 
writings. — Sturl.,  i.  298-299. 


Introductory  xxxvii 

up  the  day's  doings  by  taking  a  bath  ;  thereupon  the  wound 
inflamed,  and  he  died  shortly  afterwards.  Gizur  went  to  Iceland 
the  next  summer  with  the  story  of  Jon's  death  and  what  things 
of  value  he  left  behind.  He  did  not  himself  in  person  bring 
the  news  to  the  bereaved  father,  but  sent  a  messenger  to  tell 
him  the  story.  On  hearing  the  messenger's  tale  reported  again, 
Gizur  considered  it  altogether  unfair  to  himself.  Rumour  was 
busy  with  scandal,  and  when  Thorvald  heard  thereof  he  arranged 
a  meeting  between  Snorri  and  Gizur  at  which  Gizur  swore  the 
so-called  '  fifth-court  oath '  (Gragas  la,  78),  to  the  effect  that  he 
had  concerted  no  plan  with  Olaf  against  Jon,  nor  connived  with 
him  in  any  way.  And  Snorri  was  perfectly  satisfied  with  Gizur's 
declaration. 

Ingibiorg  and  Gizur  now  went  to  live  together.  Their  matri- 
monial life  was  alway  a  troublous  one,  and,  according  to  rumour, 
more  through  her  faults  than  his.  Snorri  and  Thorvald  did  all 
they  could  to  right  matters  between  them,  but  to  no  avail.1 

At  the  Althing  in  1231  there  was,  at  last,  a  brotherly  entente 
between  Sighvat  and  Snorri,  and  between  Sturla  and  Snorri 
there  was  '  dear  friendship  '  (all-kasrt).  At  this  Thing  all  three 
kinsmen  made  alliance  against  Orm  Jonson,  surnamed  '  Swine- 
felling,'  who  had  caused  to  be  slain  by  a  hired  assassin  an  out- 
law named  Dagstyggr  (Dayshy),  to  whom  Snorri  had  extended 
his  protection.  The  matter  ended  by  Sighvat  persuading  Orm 
to  handsel  sole  judgement  to  Snorri,  who  inflicted  on  Orm  a 
fine  of  4,000  ells'  worth  (by  a  low  estimate  =  ^300). 2 

This  same  year  Snorri  entertained  his  brother  Thord  with  his 
son  Bodvar  at  a  splendid  feast,  to  which  also  Sturla  Sighvatson 
was  invited.  He  wanted  to  bind  trusty  friendship  with  Thord 
and  Bodvar,  because  he  had  now  a  dispute  with  Kolbein  the 
Young  relating  to  the  estate  of  Hallbera  and  the  godord  in  the 
north  country.  Behind  the  invitation  to  Sturla  was  the  desire 
to  ensure  safety  to  the  sons  of  Thorvald  of  Waterfirth,  whom 
he  wanted  to  see  in  the  Lent  season ;  for  though  Sturla  was 
formally  at  peace  with  them  after  their  having  paid  him  the 
fines  he  imposed  on  them  at  Holt  in  Onundfirth,  1230,  for  their 
outrageous  raid  on  Saudafell,3  Snorri  knew  his  nephew's  temper 
well  enough  to  misdoubt  how  far  he  thought  full  satisfaction 

1   Star!.,  i.  299-300,  302.  2  Ibid.,  i.  300-301.  3  Ibid.,  i.  298. 


xxxviii  Introductory 

had  been  given  to  his  pride  and  lust  of  revenge.  Therefore 
Snorri  wanted  him  to  give  him  fresh  assurance  that  he  would 
not  set  upon  them  in  their  journey  to  him  as  arranged.  Sturla 
replied  that  Snorri  knew  well  enough  they  were  at  peace ;  but 
Snorri  objected  that  all  sorts  of  rumours  were  floating  to  the 
effect  that  Sturla  did  not  consider  the  peace  of  Holt  holden  to 
carefully  in  all  points.  '  I  see,'  answered  Sturla,  '  that  it  is  your 
own  conviction  that  they  have  not  kept  the  peace  in  all  things 
— well,  I  will  let  you  now  see  to  the  truce,  and  I  give  you  my 
hand  thereon.'  So  Snorri  pronounced  the  formulary  of  truce 
and  afterwards  Thord,  who  was  present  at  Snorri's  pronounce- 
ment, said  to  his  brother:  '  I  did  not  think  our  kinsman  Sturla's 
expression  was  very  satisfactory  while  the  truce  was  being  con- 
cluded.' '  He  will  hold  the  truce,  sure  enough,'  was  the  answer, 
and  on  the  strength  of  the  truce  Snorri  invited  the  Thorvaldsons 
to  him,  with  the  result  that  in  their  journey  Sturla  slew  them 
both.1 

For  this  breach  of  faith  Sturla  sent  word  to  Snorri  offering 
peace  and  asking  for  truce  in  return.  Snorri  gave  truce  as  far  as 
he  himself  and  his  heirs  were  concerned,  but  said  he  would  not 
come  to  peaceful  arrangement  on  behalf  of  the  Waterfirth  family 
until  he  knew  their  views.  They  put  their  case  into  the  hands 
of  Snorri  for  arbitration  with  a  view  to  peace,  and  he  spoke 
favourably  about  making  terms  of  peace  between  them,  for  he 
was  anxious  to  retain  the  support  of  Sturla  in  view  of  the  coming 
contest  with  Kolbein  at  the  next  Althing.  In  the  spring  the 
peace  settlement  was  agreed  upon,  Snorri  and  Sighvat,  his 
brother,  being  appointed  arbitrators  for  either  side.2 

The  case  of  Kolbein  terminated  on  the  whole  in  Snorri's 
favour.  Snorri  was  to  possess  one  half  of  such  godord  in  the 
north  as  Kolbein  was  rightly  owner  of,  but  Kolbein  should 
retain  rule  over  them  and  yield  his  support  to  Snorri  at  Things; 
he  should  also  pay  at  his  ease  money  to  Snorri  if  he  claimed  it. 
Further,  Kolbein  was  to  consent  to  giving  his  sister  Arnbiorg  in 
marriage  to  Snorri's  son  Oraskia,  etc.  As  to  this  settlement  it 
was  remarked  that,  while  Kolbein's  assent  to  Snorri's  terms  was 
being  sought  by  Thorvald  Gizurson  and  Thord  Sturluson,  he 
was  utterly  unamenable  to  any  terms,  but  suddenly  came  round 

1   Sturl.,  i.  303-312.  -  Ibid.,  i.  312-313. 


Introductory  xxxix 


when  these  peacemakers,  hopeless  of  bringing  about  an  agree- 
ment, had  withdrawn  from  the  case.  Thorvald  then  asked 
Thord  what  his  opinion  was  on  this  sudden  change  in  the  dis- 
position of  Kolbein.  'I  know  not  surely,'  said  Thord,  'but  it 
misdoubts  me  that  brother  Snorri  has  now  made  an  exchange 
of  friends  and  has  sold  the  friendship  of  Sighvat  and  Sturla  for 
that  of  Kolbein,  from  whom  I  fear  we  kinsmen  will  have  to 
sustain  the  heaviest  brunt  ere  all  be  over.'  Thorvald  answered: 
'  That  seems  a  wonder  to  me  that  Kolbein  is  willing  to  give  his 
sister  of  legitimate  birth  to  the  bastard  son  of  Snorri ;  but  true 
is  the  saw:  Owners  know  best  what  kind  of  goods  they  sell.'1 

After  this  Thing  Snorri  went  west  to  Waterfirth,  and  all  the 
goodmen  through  Icefirth  became  his  liegemen.  Olaf  of  Eider- 
isle  came  to  Snorri  to  atone  for  misconduct  with  his  daughter 
Thordis,  resulting  in  the  birth  of  a  child;  and  for  the  disgrace 
inflicted  on  the  family  of  a  godi  he  had  to  pay  as  penalty  his 
island  property.2 

In  the  autumn  of  this  year  (1232)  Kolbein  the  Young  was 
busy  preparing  the  wedding  feast  of  his  sister  and  Orsekia, 
counting  for  certain  on  Snorri's  attendance.  But  instead  of 
putting  in  an  appearance,  he  sent  two  deputies  on  his  behalf, 
and  omitted  to  confer  on  Oraekia  the  godord  in  Midfirth,  which 
had  been  stipulated  for  at  the  peace-meeting  in  the  last  Althing. 
Kolbein  was  incensed  at  what  he  called  betrayal  all  round  on 
the  part  of  Snorri;  but  Thorleif  of  Gardar,  one  of  Snorri's 
deputies,  handselled  Kolbein  on  Snorri's  behalf 'two  hundred 
hundreds '  and  the  manor  of  Stafholt,  declaring  that  he  had  in 
commission  from  Snorri  to  make  this  offer  in  case  Kolbein 
should  complain  of  Snorri's  pledges  being  broken.  Kolbein 
agreed  and  the  wedding  took  place.3 

This  same  autumn  letters  arrived  from  the  new  Archbishop 
of  Nidoyce,  Sigurd  '  Tafsi,'  son  of  Eindridi  Peini,  summoning 
Sighvat  and  Sturla  to  his  presence  to  answer  for  their  high- 
handed dealings  with  the  Bishop  of  Holar  Gudmund  Arison. 
This  prelate  had  now  for  nearly  thirty  years  been  at  constant 
feud  with  the  chieftains  of  the  land  from  various  causes,  chief 
among  which  being  the  immunity  from  the  jurisdiction  of  secular 
courts  which  he  claimed  for  his  clergy,  after  the  example  of  St. 

1    Sturl.,  i.  313-314.  -  Ibid.,  i.  314.  3  Ibid.,  i.  314. 


xl  Introductory 

Thomas  of  Canterbury.1    This  claim  was  in  direct  conflict  with 
the  constitution  of  the  land,  according  to  which  all  breaches  of 
the  law  must  be  dealt  with  by  the  judicial  authority  of  the  courts 
of  the  Althing.    The  chiefs  who  regarded  themselves  rightly  as 
the  guardians  of  the  constitution  opposed  the  prelate's  pretences 
not  only  by  argument,  but,  when  he  remained  obdurate,  with 
armed  force  as  well.    Bp.  Gudmund  was  a  man  of  singularly 
narrow  mind  and  an  ideal  bigot.    He  had  a  singular  fancy  for 
the  class  of  people  he  called  '  God's  alms,'  meaning  alms  people, 
and  they  flocked  to  him  in  most  embarrassing  numbers  whereso- 
ever he  was  and  went.    They  were  received  by  him  without  dis- 
crimination, and  when  they  had  devoured  his  own  substance, 
made  unceremoniously  free  with  the  means  of  his  neighbours, 
for,  indeed,  a  large  proportion  of  them  consisted  of  vagrants 
and  vagabonds.    Such  treatment  of  their  liegemen  the  neigh- 
bouring chiefs  could  not  tolerate.    But  on  remonstrating  with 
the  prelate  and  demanding  the  dismissal  and  dispersion  of  the 
'alms,'  they  were  answered  with  instant  excommunication.  This 
punishment  the  prelate  dealt  out  so  mechanically  and  with  so 
lavish  a  hand  that  its  value  sank  to  nothing  ;  it  was  disregarded 
and  laughed  at  by  priest  and  laic  alike.    The  exasperated  lords 
of  the  north  country  had  fights  with  him  and  his  men  repeatedly, 
drove  him  from  his  see,  and  as  a  fugitive  he  wandered,  accom- 
panied by  his  'alms,'  through  the  land,  and  sought  the  hospital- 
ity, now  of  one,  now  of  another  chieftain  within  the  diocese  of 
Skalholt,  and  always  met  with  sympathy  from  Snorri  Sturluson. 
This  deadlock  between  the  authority  of  state  and  church  in  the 
northern  diocese  suggested  a  mutual  appeal  to  the  archbishop 
of  the  province  at  Nidoyce,  in  Norway,  who  eagerly  availed 
himself  of  the  opportunity  to  further  King  Hakon's  political 
plans  in  Iceland,  which  aimed  at  the  subversion  of  the  constitu- 
tion of  the  commonwealth  and  the  submission  of  the  island  to 
the  crown  of  Norway.2 

While  Sturla,  in  obedience  to  the  archbishop's  summons,  was 
making  arrangements  for  his  journey  abroad,  which  did  not  take 
place  till  the  summer  of  1233,  Snorri  was  busy  in  settling  affairs 
with  his  son  Oraekia  in  respect  of  his  matrimony.  Oraekia 
desired  above  all  things  that  his  father  should  settle  on  him  the 

1  See  Thomas  Saga  (Rolls  Series),  ii.  xxiv  ff. 

2  Sturl.,  i.  tiassim,  Biskupasogur,  i.  488-558. 


Introductory  xli 

Manor  of  Stafholt,  but  Snorri  ordered  him  to  go  to  Waterfirth 
and  to  take  possession  of  that  property  and  the  godord  of  the 
Waterfirth  chiefs,  to  which  Einar,  son  of  Thorvald  and  Thordis, 
yet  a  minor,  was  the  heir.  And  '  as  Snorri  willed  so  things  had 
to  be.'  Orsekia  went  with  his  wife  to  Waterfirth,  forcing  his  half 
sister  Thordis  to  quit  the  place.  He  gathered  round  him  a 
multitude  of  retainers  far  beyond  his  means,  and,  as  was  usual 
in  the  house  of  Waterfirth,  household  provisions  had  soon  to  be 
procured  by  harsh  methods.1 

Snorri  rode  this  year  to  the  Thing  as  usual,  '  for  he  had  the 
speakership-at-law.'  After  the  Thing  he  invited  to  a  feast  his 
brother  Sighvat  with  his  son,  Thord  Kakali,  and  others.  At  this 
feast  Snorri  and  Sighvat  made  a  final  award  in  Sturla  Sighvat- 
son's  affairs  with  the  Waterfirthers  and  '  were  well  agreed,'  and 
Snorri  saw  Sighvat  off  with  the  gift  of  a  gold-adorned  spear.2 

This  summer  Sturla  Sighvatson  sailed  for  Norway,  and  on 
making  land  went  first  to  the  haven  of  Borgund,  near  where  now 
is  the  port  of  Aalesund.  Here  he  met  Earl  Skuli's  brother-in- 
law,  Alf  of  Thornberg,  who  urged  him  much  to  go  see  the 
Earl :  he  would  make  him  the  most  of  men,  seeing  how  greatly 
he  excelled  all  other  men,  the  Earl,  moreover,  being  the  greatest 
friend  of  the  Icelanders,  and  of  the  Sturlungs  in  particular. 
Sturla,  knowing  that  severely  strained  relations  now  existed 
between  the  King  and  the  Earl,  took  his  party  and  went  to  the 
King.  After  staying  on  in  Bergen  till  the  beginning  of  winter 
he  went  south  to  Rome,  where  he  received  absolution  himself 
and  procured  the  same  for  his  father,  having  to  undergo  severe 
penances;  for  he  was  led  from  church  to  church  in  Rome  and 
flogged  before  the  door  of  most  parish  churches.  He  bore  him- 
self manly.  Most  people  flocked  out  wondering,  smiting  their 
breasts  and  sorrowing  that  so  goodly  a  man  was  so  grievously 
dealt  with.  Returning  to  Norway  Sturla  met  King  Hakon  in 
Biorgvin  and  accompanied  him  to  Tunsberg ;  he  was  very  well 
received  by  the  King  and  he  tarried  here  long;  the  second 
winter  he  spent  in  Norway  (1234)  he  and  K.  Hakon  were 
always  conferring.3  The  King  was  much  troubled  on  hearing 
from  Sturla  the  account  of  the  great  disturbances  that  prevailed 
in  Iceland.   The  King  asked  what  obstacles  there  would  be  in 

1  Sturl.,  i.  315.  2  ibid.,  i.  316.  3  Ibid.,  i.  318. 


xlii  Introductory 

the  way  of  introducing  a  monarchical  form  of  government  in  the 
island,  for  it  seemed  to  him  that  there  would  be  a  more 
peaceful  state  of  things  in  the  land  if  there  was  one  supreme 
ruler  over  it.  The  rash  and  reckless  Sturla  took  the  matter 
lightly,  and  said  the  difficulty  would  be  slight,  if  he  who  under- 
took the  charge  was  a  man  of  resource  and  unsparing  of  hard 
dealings.  The  King  then  asked  if  he  was  ready  to  undertake  the 
task.  Sturla  answered  that  he  would  risk  it  under  the  King's 
advice  and  direction,  in  the  hope  that  in  return  he  should  be 
the  recipient  of  such  honours  as  the  King  deemed  him  worthy 
of  in  case  of  success.  The  King  laid  down  that  he  should  not 
attempt  the  subjection  of  the  land  by  manslaughters;  he  should 
rather  secure  the  person  of  the  chiefs  and  send  them  abroad  or  get 
hold  of  their  godord  in  some  other  way,  if  that  could  be  brought 
about.    Sturla  was  often  with  the  King  discussing  this  matter.1 

Sturla  returned  to  Iceland  in  the  summer  of  1235.  In  his 
absence  the  turbulent  Orsekia  had  in  various  ways  oppressed 
and  mishandled  his  liegemen,  and  when  at  last  he  gave  himself 
time  to  think  of  his  day  of  reckoning,  he  saw  it  his  wisest  course 
to  try  to  secure  for  himself  peace  from  Sighvat.  To  this  the 
latter  was  not  adverse,  but  he  made  it  an  express  condition  that 
whatever  Oraekia  had  done  to  offend  Sturla  should  await  settle- 
ment until  he  came  back  from  Norway.  Sighvat  got  secret  news 
of  the  sudden  arrival  of  his  son  and  persuaded  Oraekia  to  be  off 
by  a  route  where  he  should  not  meet  Sturla.  For  Snorri  Stur- 
luson  these  two  years  had  been  a  season  of  anxiety  and  worry. 
He  had  taken  in  two  fugitives  from  Kolbein  the  Young's  domain 
whose  death  Kolbein  had  decided  on,  and  at  the  Althing  of  1 234 
Kolbein  would  have  settled  matters  with  Snorri  by  the  sword, 
if  the  bishop  of  Skalholt  and  other  men  of  moderation  and 
influence  had  not  interceded  and  extracted  from  Kolbein  a 
promise  to  keep  peace  at  the  Althing.2  The  affair  thus  stood 
open  for  further  treatment.  In  the  course  of  this  summer 
Kolbein  and  Sighvat,  by  the  advice  of  mutual  friends,  agreed,  at 
a  meeting  in  Horgardale,  to  make  up  their  differences  and  to 
desist  from  worrying  each  others'  liegemen  wherein  Kolbein 
particularly  had  been  busy  of  late.  Sighvat  was  to  declare  the 
award  in  this  case,  but  deferred  it  to  another  time.    But  this 

1  Hakon's  Saga  (Rolls  ed.),  p.  158.  2  Sturl.,  i.  326-32S. 


Introductory  xliii 

was  not  all.  The  two  agreed  that  Kolbein,  in  company  with 
Kolbein  the  son  of  Sighvat,  should  go  with  a  band  of  more 
than  1 20  to  the  south  country,  and  quarter  themselves  upon 
the  manors  owned  by  Snorri  Sturluson  at  Dale  '  'neath  the  Isles'- 
fells '  and  at  Leira-bank,  and  elsewhere.  '  They  sat  in  the 
summer  for  a  very  long  time  at  Leira-bank  and  behaved  riot- 
ously in  many  ways  and  robbed  far  and  wide.' — This  was  the 
first  outcome  of  Sturla's  compact  with  King  Hakon,  and  shows 
clearly  that  Snorri,  in  the  first  instance,  was  to  be  the  special 
victim  of  Hakon's  unscrupulous  policy  towards  Iceland.  As 
summer  advanced  Snorri  sent  for  Orrekia  to  join  him  with  as 
many  men  as  he  could  muster,  for  he  intended  to  march  against 
the  '  Northlanders,'  who  had  quartered  themselves  upon  his 
properties.  He  gathered  himself  a  force  of  600  men  and  went 
into  the  disturbed  parts.  Before  Oraekia  and  other  allies  of 
Snorri  had  time  to  join  their  forces  with  his,  a  word  came  from 
him  to  say  the  two  Kolbeins  had  left  and  gone  to  the  north, 
after  having  inflicted  very  severe  losses  on  Snorri  and  damage 
to  his  properties.1 

After  the  session  of  the  Althing,  1235,  the  two  brothers 
Thord  and  Snorri  had  a  very  brotherly  meeting  at  the  place 
called  Hraun  in  the  district  of  Myrar;  they  talked  together  all 
day,  and  vowed  to  each  other  livelong  friendship,  and  this 
bond  was  made  still  firmer  by  an  arrangement  whereby  Thord's 
son  Sturla,  the  future  historian  of  the  family,  now  twenty-one 
years  of  age,  should  go  to  live  with  his  uncle  Snorri." 

Snorri  Sturluson  must  have  suspected  Sturla  Sighvatson  of 
having  entered  into  some  ominous  alliance  with  King  Hakon 
who,  Snorri  was  well  aware,  meant  to  effect  the  subjection  of 
Iceland  to  Norway  by  any  means,  fair  or  foul.  He  knew  Sturla's 
impulsive  and  reckless  character,  his  overweening  ambition.  He 
knew  how  brutally  his  son  Oraekia  had  treated  Sturla's  liegemen 
while  he  was  abroad,  and  that  he  himself  would  also  have  to 
pay  the  penalty  for  Oraakia's  misdeeds.  He  was  also  conscious 
of  having  done  nothing  towards  the  fulfilment  of  the  compact 
of  1220  with  the  rulers  of  Norway.  So  in  the  autumn  of  the 
year  that  Sturla  returned  Snorri  sent  word  to  his  nephew 
Bodvar  Thordson  of  Stad,  requesting  him  to  stay  at  Reykholt 

1  Stud.,  i.  328,  329.  2  Ibid.,  i.  338. 


xliv  Introductory 

during  the  ensuing  winter.  He  came  to  Reykholt  with  eleven 
men  and  took  up  his  quarters  there.  After  Christmas,  1236, 
Sighvat  and  Sturla  sent  orders  to  their  liegemen  of  Willowdale 
to  shoe  their  horses  and  to  be  ready  to  take  the  field  whenever 
the  word  of  command  should  come  to  them.  The  Willowdale 
liegemen  of  Snorri  sent  him  word  of  warning  of  what  was  going 
on.  Then  Snorri  sent  word  to  Orsekia  in  Waterfirth  to  say  that 
Sighvat  and  Sturla  were  calling  out  a  muster  of  men  in  the 
north;  they  had  better  bestir  themselves  lest  each  of  them 
should  be  penned  up  by  himself.  Orsekia  whipped  up  600  men 
and  went  to  his  father's  assistance,  who  had  already  been  joined 
by  his  brother  Thord  and  his  cousin  Thorleif  of  Gardar.  At  a 
counsel  held  by  all  these  kinsmen  Orsekia  advocated  an  imme- 
diate march  to  the  north,  but  Snorri  'was  not  prepared  to 
march  against  his  own  brother  in  the  season  of  the  high 
festivals  which  were  at  hand'  (Easter).1 

In  Palm-Sunday  week  news  came  from  the  north  to  the  effect 
that  all  the  country  there  was  up  in  arms.  Snorri  now  desisted 
from  calling  out  a  levy  of  his  men,  but  left  Reykholt  and  went 
south  to  Bessastead  on  Alptaness  leaving  Reykholt  in  the 
charge  of  his  brother  Thord.  Sighvat  and  Sturla  came  down 
on  Borgfirth  at  the  head  of  an  army  of  1,000  men.  Thord  went 
out  from  Reykholt  to  try  to  mediate  peace.  He  was  in  an  in- 
dignant temper  and  upbraided  Sighvat  severely  for  setting  on 
his  own  brother  with  an  armed  force  in  the  midst  of  the  festive 
season  of  the  church;  he,  an  old  man,  would  surely  have  to  yield 
sore  penalties  to  God  for  such  things. — Sighvat :  '  Neither  of 
us  need  taunt  the  other  with  old  age,  or  art  thou  turning  out  a 
prophet,  kinsman?'— Thord:  'I  am  not  a  prophet,  but  to  thee  I 
shall  be  one.  So  great  as  thou  vauntest  thyself  now,  trusting  in 
the  might  of  thyself  and  thy  sons,  there  shall  yet  pass  not  many 
winters  before  it  will  be  said  that  in  your  case  a  collapse  of  the 
greatest  has  befallen.' — Sighvat:  'Wroth  art  thou, kinsman ;  angry 
words  go  for  naught ;  perhaps  we  shall  get  better  on  anon  when 
we  are  both  in  a  better  temper.'  Thord  went  away.  Sturla  went 
to  Reykholt  and  behaved  as  if  the  whole  property  was  his  own; 
he  made  his  own  the  whole  district  of  Borgfirth  and  Thorleif 
of  Gardar  assented  to  every  order  issued  by  Sturla.2 

1  Sturl.,  i.  340-341. 

2  Ibid.,  i.  341-342,  Hakon's  Saga,  158. 


Introductory  xlv 

This  unceremonious  confiscation  by  Sturla  of  all  his  uncle's 
landed  property  in  Borgfirth  seems  incomprehensible  except  on 
the  ground  that  King  Hakon  explained  to  him  that  these  lands 
he  had  conferred  as  a  royal  grant  on  Snorri  when  he  accepted 
the  position  of  the  King's  'landed-man  '  in  1220.  At  any  rate, 
after  Snorri's  death  Hakon  '  maintained  that  the  former's  herit- 
age had  come  to  him  together  with  all  lands  that  he  possessed 
on  his  dying  day,  and  he  charged  Snorri's  grand-nephew, 
Thorgils  Skardi,  to  prosecute  the  case  and  to  settle  it  in  accord- 
ance with  what  the  law  should  provide  in  respect  of  the  manage- 
ment of  that  property.' l  If  Snorri  held  his  lands  of  Hakon  as 
a  royal  grant,  the  King's  claim  was  legitimate.  In  no  other  case 
did  he,  while  he  was  subduing  the  godar  of  Iceland,  advance  a 
claim  of  this  nature.  But  possibly  this  was  Hakon's  own  con- 
struction of  the  significance  of  the  act  of  grace;  it  is  scarcely 
conceivable,  if  it  was  frankly  explained  to  Snorri  that  this  was 
the  meaning  of  the  conference  on  him  of  the  title,  how  he 
could  ever  have  been  vain  and  weak  enough  to  consent  to 
accepting  it.  If  he  did,  then  surely  the  dreadful  penalty  he  in- 
curred was  in  a  measure  his  own  fault. 

When  Snorri  heard  that  Sturla  had  appropriated  the  whole 
Borgfirth  district  he  left  Bessastead  and  went  first  to  his  manors 
in  the  south  country  and  then  east  to  Orm  Swinefelling,  who 
dwelt  at  Skal,  in  what  now  is  called  western  Skaptafells-sysla, 
and  here  Snorri  spent  the  summer.  In  Snorri's  absence  Sturla 
dealt  with  men  and  matters  in  Western  Iceland  just  as  he 
pleased.  Oraekia  he  forced  to  go  abroad,  1236,  after  having 
dealt  in  a  most  masterful  manner  with  him,  though  the  story 
related  of  the  mutilation  inflicted  on  Oraekia  at  his  behest  must 
be  a  fiction.2 

When  Snorri  heard,  while  he  was  still  at  Skal,  that  between 
Sturla  and  Thorleif  of  Gardar  friendship  was  waning  in  conse- 
quence of  the  arduous  services  exacted  by  Sturla,  he  opened 
secret  communications  with  Thorleif  and  with  other  relatives  in 
the  west.  He  himself  left  Skal  first  for  his  manor  of  Dale  and 
then  for  Reykir  in  Olfus,  the  home  of  Gizur,  his  son-in-law ;  he 
further  extended  his  journey  even  west  to  Bessastead.  But  later 
he  returned  to  Gizur  and  remained  with  him  through  Lent,  1237.' 

1   Sturl.,  ii.  116.  a  Ibid.,  i.  345-346.  3  Ibid.,  i.  347. 


xlvi  Introductory 

Sturla  Sighvatson,  suspicious  of  Snorri  and  Thorleif  planning 
an  up-rising  against  him,  called  a  muster  of  his  liegemen  through 
the  Westfirths  and  got  together  a  band  of  600  strong.  During 
Passion-Week  Snorri  came  from  the  south  from  Reykir,  and  he 
and  Thorleif  gathered  men  from  all  the  Nesses  south  of  Borg- 
firth,  and  had  a  force  of  480.  At  Mid-Thwaites  (MrSfitjar)  in 
Borgfirth  they  held  a  counsel  of  war  and  Snorri  was  now  all  for 
a  surprise  night  attack  on  Sturla.  Thorleif  feared  that  the  great 
odds  against  them  would  tell  disastrously.  Then  Snorri  ad- 
vocated turning  back,  which  Thorleif  deprecated ;  and  when 
Snorri  further  asked  him  what  plan  he  favoured,  he  suggested 
they  should  push  up  farther  inland  and  there  build  them  a  fort, 
and  defend  themselves  or  attack  as  opportunity  should  serve. 
Snorri  answered  that  he  would  take  care  not  to  fall  into  the 
power  of  Sturla,  or  of  any  other  of  his  enemies  whatever  else 
might  betide  him.  After  much  talk  he  parted  from  Thorleif  and 
went  south  to  the  Nesses.1 

All  of  a  sudden  he  now  resolved  to  go  to  Norway,  and  em- 
barked at  Eyrar  in  the  south  of  Iceland.  It  seems  obvious  that 
this  resolve  was  taken  because  Snorri  felt  nowhere  safe  for 
Sturla.  He  may  also  have  speculated  in  the  chances  that  would 
open  in  Norway  for  supplanting  Sturla  whose  course  of  violence 
was  distasteful  to  King  Hakon.2  He  remained  through  the  en- 
suing winter  at  Nidoyce  with  Peter  the  son  of  Duke  Skuli,  while 
the  Duke  together  with  King  Hakon  spent  the  winter  in  Oslo ; 
but  Orskia  dwelt  the  same  winter  in  the  house  of  Duke  Skuli.3 

After  Snorri's  departure  Sturla  Sighvatson  had  a  busy  time 
in  Iceland,  but  we  must  pass  over  most  of  his  doings,  noticing 
briefly  only  those  which  in  particular  concern  the  man  he  now 
most  feared  in  Iceland — Gizur  Thorvaldson,  hitherto  particularly 
noted  for  his  inscrutable  neutral  attitude  in  his  father-in-law's 
contests  at  the  Althing.  In  the  early  winter  of  1237  Sturla 
managed  to  get  himself  mixed  up  in  affairs  in  which  the  still  in- 
fluential family  of  Oddi  were  interested.  The  actual  case  con- 
cerned a  man  named  Kol  the  wealthy.  He  had  promised  Orm 
Swinefelling  a  considerable  sum  of  money  for  having  Dagstyggr 
Jonsson  slain  by  a  hired  assassin  (p.  xxxv),  but  when  the  deed 
was  done  he  refused  to  pay.    Orm  appealed  to  Sturla  for  help, 

Sturl.,  i.  352-353.  *  Hakon's  Saga,  p.  167.  3  Sturl.,  i.  356. 


Introductory  xlvii 

but  Kol  threw  himself  under  the  protection  of  Biorn,  son  of 
Sasmund  (of  Oddi),  who  sent  men  with  friendly  messages  and 
goodly  gifts  to  Sturla  asking  him  not  to  undertake  the  case 
against  Kol.  Sturla  refused  the  gifts  and  sent  an  angry  and 
threatening  answer.  In  the  spring  of  the  next  year,  1238,  he 
sent  messages  to  Gizur  to  notify  that  he  intended  to  come  to 
the  south  country  to  exact  from  Kol  the  promised  payment  (for 
the  assassination  of  Dagstyggr).  His  father,  Sighvat,  warned  him 
seriously  against  this  plan  and  said  :  '  Thou  hast  an  evil  errand 
on  hand,  for  here  there  is  money  in  question  from  which  great 
harm  will  befall  many  a  man.'  In  due  time,  however,  he  set 
out  with  a  band  of  360  armed  men;  but  when  he  came  to 
Ravenbergs  (Hrafnabjorg),  east  of  Thingvellir,  a  messenger 
from  Gizur  brought  him  the  information  that  the  Kol  affair  was 
settled  in  a  peaceful  manner,  and  Sturla  might  therefore  return, 
if  it  seemed  good  to  him.  Evidently  Gizur  was  apprehensive 
lest  sinister  things  might  lurk  behind  Sturla's  journey.  Sturla 
said  the  Southlanders  should  not  drive  him  about  like  a  herd 
to  pasture,  and  sent  word  to  Gizur  to  meet  him  at  Apewater. 
Sturla  asked  what  news  there  were.  '  Peace,'  said  Gizur,  '  and  no 
need  of  going  with  a  band  of  armed  men  to  where  there  is  no 
warlike  gathering.'  But  Sturla  pretended  to  have  misgivings  as 
to  the  trustiness  of  the  Southlanders,  and  at  last,  after  much 
deceitful  talk  on  his  part,  he  had  Gizur  laid  hands  on  and  his 
forty  followers  disarmed.  On  Gizur's  wondering  at  this  treat- 
ment in  the  circumstances,  Sturla  bade  him  have  no  doubt  that 
he  intended  for  himself  a  share  of  power  greater  than  that  of 
any  other  man  in  Iceland,  'and  I  deem  when  thou  art  over- 
come all  the  rest  is,  for  thou  art  the  only  man  in  Iceland  I  fear 
if  matters  go  not  smoothly  between  us.'  Then  a  book  (a  plenary, 
probably)  was  handed  to  Gizur,  and  Sturla  ordered  him  to  swear 
an  oath  that  he  would  go  abroad  and  remain  faithful  to  him. 
Said  Gizur  :  'Shall  I  swear  a  Norwegian  or  an  Icelandic  oath  ?' 
Sturla  said  he  might  choose.  '  Then  /  swear  the  Norwegian, 
since  to  Norway  I  must  go  ;  but  with  this  promise  I  will  preface 
my  oath  that,  not  being  in  drink,  I  shall  never  speak  a  dis- 
paraging word  of  you.1  The  Norwegian  oath-formulary  was  not 
law  in  Iceland,  so  that  in  strict  law  no  oath  was  sworn.  What 
Gizur  said  about  words  silly  excluded  deeds,  as  time  proved. 

1  Sturl.,  i.  357-36I. 


xlviii  Introductory 

Sturla  handed  Gizur  over  to  Orm  Swinefelling  to  keep  him 
as  a  prisoner  until  he  should  go  abroad.  But  Gizur  managed  to 
send  letters  to  faithful  friends  that  they  should  come  and  meet 
him  if  his  kinsmen  should  be  able  to  gather  together  any  con- 
siderable force.  They  got  together  a  company  of  eighteen  who 
rode  east  to  Orm  Swinefelling  and  persuaded  him  to  let  Gizur 
off ;  once  more  a  free  man  he  departed  with  his  friends  riding 
west  until  he  came  to  Beitiwalls  (Beitivellir,  east  of  Thingvellir) 
where  he  joined  the  forces  of  his  kinsmen  and  those  of  Kolbein 
the  Young  who  now  was  recruiting  in  the  south  country,  open 
hostility  having  broken  out  between  him  and  Sturla  in  the  north. 
After  various  futile  attempts  at  coming  to  blows  with  Sturla, 
Kolbein  and  his  ally  Gizur  succeeded  in  drawing  together  an 
army  of  some  sixteen  hundred  fighters  with  which  they  marched 
against  the  combined  forces  of  Sighvat  and  Sturla  stationed  at 
the  homestead  of  Willow-walls  in  Skagafirth,  and  fought  on  21st 
August,  1238,  with  them  the  memorable  engagement  of  Orlyg- 
stead  in  which  Sighvat  and  Sturla,  besides  three  more  of  Sig- 
hvat's  sons  were  slain  and  the  dominion  of  these  able,  even 
popular,  but  reckless  men  was  destroyed  for  ever.1 

When  the  news  of  this  event  came  to  Norway  it  created  a 
great  impression.  King  Hakon  was  foiled  once  more  in  his 
attempt  at  subduing  Iceland.  But  for  so  astute  a  politician  as 
he  was  the  experience  gained  by  Sturla's  failure  was  anything 
but  discouraging.  He  could  not  mistake  the  fact  that  a  wave  of 
reckless  ambition  swept  over  the  '  godar '  of  the  land.  Left  to 
themselves  they  would  go  on  fighting,  confiscating  each  other's 
properties  and  'godord,'  until  the  most  successful  of  them  should 
find  himself  one  day  in  possession  of  all  the  '  godords '  in  the 
land,  and  in  the  position  of  supreme  ruler.  Even  the  sequel 
to  the  fight  of  Orlygstead  gave  an  unmistakable  hint  in  this 
direction.  Kolbein  the  Young,  now  the  most  powerful  chief  in 
the  north,  '  laid  under  him '  the  whole  of  the  North  Quarter  of 
the  island;2  and  had  there  been  no  Hakon  Hakonson  in  Nor- 
way there  is  no  telling  how  far  Kolbein  might  have  carried  his 
conquest.  Hakon  saw  the  trend  of  the  chiefs'  aims  and  took 
his  measures  accordingly. 

On  hearing  the  news  Snorri  took  sorely  and  sincerely  to  heart 

1  Sturl.,  i.  362-381.  2  Ibid.,  i.  381. 


Introdttctory  xlix 

the  loss  of  his  brother  and  four  nephews,  and  in  a  verse  he  sent 
to  Thord  Kakali,  Sighvat's  son,  he  gives  expression  to  his  sym- 
pathy, and  to  his  sorrow  at  the  fatality  that  besets  his  family.1 

During  the  winter,  1 238-1 239,  Snorri,  Oraekia  and  Thorleif 
of  Gardar  remained  with  Duke  Skuli,  while  Thord  Kakali  stayed 
with  King  Hakon.   The  relations  between  the  Duke  and  Snorri 
seem  to  have  been  as  cordial  as  ever.2    In  the  spring,  by  the 
Duke's  advice,  his  guests  chartered  a  ship  for  Iceland.  But  when 
they  were  ready  and  had  gone  from  Nidoyce  out  to  Monkholm  in 
the  bay  of  Thrandheim  messengers  came  from  the  south  with  a 
letter  from  the  King  wherein  it  was  written  that  he  forbade  all 
Icelanders  to  leave  Norway  that  summer.    They  showed  the 
letter  to  Snorri  and  received  the  laconic  answer:  'I  will  out!' 
When  they  were  '  allboun '  the  Duke  invited  them  to  a  farewell 
banquet;  and  few  men  were  present  at  the  conversation  of  Snorri 
with  the  Duke.    Arnfinn  Thiofson,  afterwards  Skuli's  marshal, 
and  Olaf  White-Poet,  Snorri's  nephew,  were  with   the  Duke, 
while  with  Snorri  there  were  Oraekia  and  Thorleif.    According 
to  Arnfinn's  relation,  the  Duke  conferred  the  title  of  Earl  on 
Snorri.3    But  Snorri's  biographer,  his  nephew  Sturla  Thordson, 
the  singularly  accurate  and  impartial  author  of  Islendingasaga 
(Sturl.),  says:  'However,  none  of  those  Icelanders  confirmed 
that  to  me.'4    There  is  only  one  historical  evidence  which,  in 
some  way,  seems  to  support  the  statement  of  Arnfinn.    Sturla 
says  that,  in  putting  down  the  obituary  of  Snorri,  Styrmir  the 
historian,  Snorri's  friend,  entered  him  as  '  Snorri  F61gsnarjarl,' 
which,  by  the  spelling  of  the  word,  should  mean  'Secret  Earl;' 
but  Vigfusson  (Sturl.,  i.  384,  footnote  4)  takes  Folgsnar  to  be  the 
genitive  of  the  name  of  the  island  of  Folksn  (Folkn,  Folsn), 
now  Stor-Fosen,  outside  the  mouth  of  Drontheim  Firth.   Skuli 
should  accordingly  have  made  Snorri  an  earl  of  this  small  island, 
which,  of  course,  is  impossible.    This  story  about  Snorri's  earl- 
dom tells  of  a  most  improbable  if  not  an  impossible  act.    No 
one  could  appoint  an  earl  for  Iceland  except  the  King  himself. 
Of  course,  Skuli  could  have  given  Snorri  a  promise  of  an  earldom 
when  he  should  be  in  a  position  to  confer  it  on  him,  i.e.,  when 
he  should  have  succeeded  in  wresting  the  crown  from  Hakon. 
In  such  a  case  those  in  the  secret  might  have  given  Snorri  the 

1  Sturl.,  i.  381.  2  Hakon's  Saga,  pp.  171,  172-173- 

3  Sturl.,  i.  384;  Hakon's  Saga,  173.  4  Sturl.,  i.  384-385- 

vi.  d 


1  Introductory 

title  '  Secret  Earl.'  But  is  it  likely  that  Skuli  should  have  given 
an  outsider  such  a  sure  key  to  his  harbouring  treason  against 
his  king,  and  to  one,  moreover,  who  the  next  moment  would  be 
entirely  beyond  his  control?  On  the  whole  this  story  seems 
deserving  of  no  credit. 

Snorri  with  his  companions  set  sail  for  Iceland  and  arrived 
in  the  Westmen's  isles  in  due  time.  He  next  went  to  BreiSSa- 
bolstaS  in  Fleetlithe  and  met  there  his  partner  Hallveig;  they 
went  together  west  to  Reykholt  and  set  up  house  there  once 
more.  The  rest  of  this  year  Snorri  spent  in  legal  business 
arising  out  of  Sturla's  raids  in  the  west  country,  and  particularly 
out  of  an  armed  encounter  which  took  place  at  By  in  Borgfirth, 
1237,  in  which  Thorleif  of  Gardar,  Snorri's  faithful  friend,  had 
been  defeated  by  Sturla.  In  these  matters  Snorri  delivered  his 
award  in  the  spring  of  1240.1  After  the  Althing  of  this  year  he 
helped  Solveig,  the  widow  of  Sturla,  to  arrange  her  affairs  in 
view  of  a  journey  abroad  on  which  she  had  decided.2 

This  year  Eyvind  Bratt  and  Ami  Unready  came  from  Norway 
to  Iceland,  being  bearers  of  a  letter  from  King  Hakon.  At  first 
'  this  letter  was  held  little  aloft.'  They  also  told  the  news  of 
the  turmoil  there  had  been  through  the  winter,  and  how  Duke 
Skuli  had  been  slain  in  his  attempt  to  seize  the  crown  of 
Norway.3 

Before  the  Althing  of  1241  words  went  between  Snorri  and 
Gizur  Thorvaldson  to  the  effect  that  Snorri  should  bring  with 
him  to  the  Thing  Tumi  the  son  of  Sighvat  and  settle  peace  for 
him  and  award  him  atonement  for  his  father.  Snorri  came  to 
the  Thing  with  a  retinue  of  120  men,  but  on  the  following  day 
Kolbein  the  Young  appeared  suddenly  at  the  Thing  with  a 
following  600  strong.  Of  this  Snorri  and  Tumi  had  had  no 
warning.  They  went  forthwith  into  the  church  and  spoke  from 
the  inside  whatever  they  had  to  say ;  but  Snorri's  men  stood  in 
a  crowd  outside  the  church.  Kolbein's  men  flew  madly  hither 
and  thither  about  the  thing-meadows,  and  behaved  in  a  most 
riotous  manner.  Kolbein  and  Gizur  had  a  long  privy  talk 
together,  but  nothing  was  said  about  peace.  Kolbein's  band 
did  not  unsaddle,  and  departed  from  the  Thing  the  same  even- 
ing.   Thereupon  Gizur  went  into  the  church  and  he  and  Snorri 

1  Sturl.,  i.  386.  2  Ibid.,  387.  3  Ibid. 


Introductory  li 

held  a  long  converse  together,  and  everything  went  right  orderly 
between  them.1 

Hallveig,  Snorri's  partner,  died  on  the  25th  of  July  this  year 
and  Snorri  took  his  loss  greatly  to  heart,  'as  well  he  might,' 
adds  his  nephew.  When  her  sons  Klseng  and  Orm  heard  of  her 
death  they  repaired  to  Reykholt  with  a  suite  of  retainers ;  but 
when  the  talk  came  on  the  division  of  the  property,  divergences 
arose  between  them  and  Snorri.  They  held  that  one  half  of  the 
whole  property  belonged  to  them  in  virtue  of  the  settlement  of 
1224  (p.  xxx);  but  Snorri  maintained,  apparently  unfairly,  that 
Bluewood-heath  (mountain  ridge  running  S.  and  N.  to  the  east 
of  Thingvellir)  should  form  the  dividing  boundary  of  the 
property  (i.e.,  they  should  have  all  estates  to  the  east,  he  all  to 
the  west  of  Bluewood-heath) ;  other  reservations  to  the  dis- 
advantage of  the  young  men  Snorri  carried  through,  taking 
advantage  of  his  position  and  power.  But  books  and  trinkets 
they  divided  equally.  Returning  to  their  homesteads  in  the 
south  country  they  called  on  Gizur  and  told  him  how  things 
stood  between  them  and  Snorri.  He  said  he  considered  it 
'  unbecoming '  (ofallit)  that  they  should  not  have  their  fair  share 
of  Snorri,  and  gave  them  to  understand  that  he  would  be  ready 
to  lend  them  his  support  in  the  matter.2 

Tumi  Sighvatson  took  up  his  abode  at  Saudafell,  formerly 
his  father's,  latterly  his  brother  Sturla's  manorial  seat,  in  the 
Dales,  and  in  the  course  of  the  summer,  1241,  Snorri  Sturlason 
rode  west  thither  on  a  visit  to  his  nephew.  He  sent  word  to 
Oraekia,  who  then  happened  to  be  east  away  in  Ramfirth,  not 
far  from  Saudafell,  that  he  desired  to  have  talk  of  him.  Coming 
to  the  place  Orsekia  found  his  father  in  a  merry  mood.  Snorri 
told  them  how  matters  had  fared  between  him  and  the  sons  of 
Hallveig;  he  also  brought  with  him  a  letter  he  had  received 
from  Odd  Sveinbiornson  of  Alptaness,  written  in  the  character 
called  '  Staff-carles'  letters '  which  they  could  not  make  out, 
though  they  felt  sure  that  it  conveyed  a  warning  of  some  kind. 
Snorri  said  he  greatly  distrusted  the  Southlanders  (Gizur),  '  yet 
now  I  will  ride  south  to  see  to  my  manors,  and  then  I  shall  return 
to  the  west  and  stay  alternately  at  Holar  and  Saurby.'  And  south 
he  rode,  but,  apparently,  no  farther  than  Reykholt. 

1   Sturl.,  i.  390.  a  Ibid.,  391. 


Hi  Introductory 

Kolbein  the  Young  and  Gizur  had  a  meeting  about  this  time 
(late  summer,  1241),  in  the  upland  wilderness  called  Keel,  and 
there  concerted  their  counsels,  'even  as  shortly  became  manifest/ 
For  when  Gizur  came  down  from  the  Keel  he  summoned  his 
liegemen  to  him,  and  among  those  who  obeyed  the  summons 
were  his  nephews,  the  sons  of  Hallveig,  Orm  and  Klaeng.  Now  he 
held  up  the  letter  which  Eyvind  and  Ami  Unready  had  brought 
from  King  Hakon.  In  this  letter  the  King  ordered  that  Gizur 
should  send  Snorri  abroad  willing  nilling,  or  else  slay  him,  since 
he  had  presumed  to  leave  Norway  in  spite  of  his  prohibition; 
and  the  King  described  Snorri  as  traitor  towards  him.  Gizur 
declared  that  on  no  account  could  he  think  of  breaking  the 
written  orders  of  the  King,  but  said  he  felt  sure  that  Snorri 
would  not  go  abroad  of  his  free  will.  Thereupon  Gizur  gave  it 
out  that  he  meant  to  go  'and  seize  the  person  of  Snorri,'  his 
own  father-in-law  !  Orm  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  these 
counsels  and  rode  away  to  his  home  at  BrerSabdlstaS.  Gizur 
whipped  up  men  and  sent  spies  west  to  Borgfirth,  and  rode  off 
with  a  band  of  seventy  men-at-arms. 

He  arrived  at  Reykholt  during  the  night  following  Mauritius 
mass  (22-23  September,  1241).  They  broke  up  the  bower  where 
Snorri  was  sleeping.  He  sprang  to  his  feet  and  got  out  of  the 
bower  into  'Little-Houses'  which  communicated  with  the  bower. 
Here  he  met  priest  Arnbiorn  and  had  word  with  him  and  they 
agreed  that  Snorri  had  better  go  into  the  cellar  which  was  under 
the  floor  of  those  houses.  Gizur  and  his  men  went  through  the 
houses  searching  for  him.  Meeting  priest  Arnbiorn  Gizur  asked 
where  Snorri  was;  he  said  he  knew  not;  Gizur  said  they  could 
not  come  to  terms  of  peace  if  they  did  not  personally  meet.  The 
priest  said  that  possibly  he  could  be  found  if  truce  was  promised 
him.  Just  about  this  nick  of  time  they  got  to  know  where  Snorri 
was  hidden  and  entered  the  cellar,  five  together  of  Gizur's- 
assassins:  Markus,  son  of  Mord,  Simon  Knout,  Ami  Bitter, 
Thorstein  Gudinason,  Thorarin  Asgrimson.  Simon  charged 
Ami  to  strike  him  down.  'Strike  not!'  said  Snorri.  'Strike!' 
said  Simon.  'Strike  not!'  said  Snorri.  Thereupon  Ami  dealt 
him  his  death-wound,  yea  both  of  them,  he  and  Thorstein,  did 
for  him.1 

1  Sturl.,  i.  392-393.  Hakon's  Saga,  p.  237. 


Introductory  liii 

Such,  in  brief,  is  this  terrible  story,  as  written  by  Snorri's 
nephew,  the  justiciary,  Sturla  Thordson.  To  carry  it  further 
here  answers  no  purpose,  nor  does  space  allow  it. 

This  martyr  to  treachery  was  the  unfortunate  child  of  an  evil 
age.  Right  was  superseded  by  might.  Success  by  any  means, 
fair  or  foul,  was  honour.  Laxity  of  morals,  blind  lust  for  wealth, 
power,  and  revenge,  were  qualities  that  made  a  mighty  godi. 
The  very  constitution  of  the  '  godar-doom '  (sit  venia  verbo) 
contained  from  the  beginning  the  germs  of  the  fatal  disease  that 
brought  the  so-called  '  free  commonwealth  '  into  its  grave  in  the 
thirteenth  century;  and  would  have  done  it  anyhow,  even  if 
there  had  been  no  perfidious  Hakon  Hakonson  of  Norway. 
Personal  rivalry  among  thirty-nine  independent  local  chieflets, 
not  devotion  to  law  and  order,  was  now  the  animating  principle 
of  that  commonwealth.  Patriotism  had  ceased  to  exist;  family 
aggrandizement  had  taken  its  place.  Purely  insular,  however, 
the  process  of  dissolution  was  not.  '  In  this  land  all  men  deemed 
it  a  proper  thing  to  follow  the  example  set  by  Norway,'  says  the 
author  of  the  Saga  of  St.  Thorlak,  in  dealing  with  Jon  Loptson's 
opposition,  in  the  matter  of  jus  patronatus,  to  the  good  bishop, 
whose  own  sister  was  one  of  Jon's  sundry  concubines.1  It  is  not 
a  pure  accident  that  the  social  disorganization  in  Norway,  brought 
about  by  the  lawless  factions  with  which  one  pretender  after  the 
other  infested  that  unhappy  land  for  a  century,  falls  within  the 
same  period  as  the  somewhat  similar  state  of  things  in  Iceland. 
It  is  not  an  accident  that  the  concubinage  of  Norwegian  Kings 
finds  such  a  ready  imitation  among  the  little  sovereign  chiefs 
of  Iceland. — This  state  of  social  and  moral  decomposition  was 
not  a  soil  likely  to  bring  forth  healthy  produce. 

Though  a  man  of  business,  Snorri  was  not  a  man  of  action. 
There  is  nothing  in  him  of  the  rowdy  brutality  that  characterizes 
so  many  chiefs  of  his  time.  Circumstances,  rather  than  choice, 
drew  him  into  the  vortex  of  political  strife.  Appeals  to  arms  he 
avoided  as  much  as  he  could,  employing  methods  of  arbitration 
and  compromise  instead.  He  was  altogether  a  man  of  peaceful 
disposition.  He  was  lacking  in  firmness  at  decisive  movements. 
Vanity  and  adulation,  coupled  with  weakness,  seem  to  be  the 
causes  that  underlie  his  fatal  attitude  to  the  Court  of  Norway. 

1  Bisk.  Sogur,  i.  284. 


liv  Introductory 

The  bestowal  of  the  hand  of  his  young  daughter  Thordis  on  the 
infamous  Thorvald  of  Waterfirth  just  after  Snorri  had  had  him 
condemned  for  brigandage  to  full  outlawry,  and  forfeiture  of  all 
his  possessions  together  with  his  godord, — a  sentence  which 
Snorri  speedily  remitted  altogether  as  soon  as  Thorvald  hinted 
at  marriage  alliance — would  be  most  reprehensible  but  for  one 
reason:  Snorri  probably  wanted  to  get  rid  of  Thordis;  for  her 
after  conduct  proved  that  she  was,  even  in  her  years  of  discre- 
tion, by  no  means  a  very  heedful  guardian  of  her  own  honour. 
Still  the  alliance  does  little  credit  to  Snorri' s  sense  of  propriety 
in  choosing  means  for  the  increase  of  his  power  and  influence. 
Of  the  cause  of  the  separation  from  the  heiress  Herdis  nothing 
is  known.  Snorri's  known  relations  to  other  women  were  a 
matter  of  aristocratic  fashion  at  the  time.  His  dealing  with 
Thorkel  Walrus  was  within  the  law.  He  had  killed  one  of  Snorri's 
men.  Though  not  formally  sentenced  he  was,  ipso  facto  a  wood- 
man (outlaw)  of  forfeit  life,  whom  any  one  was  free  to  kill. 
That  Snorri  from  love  of  money  sometimes  could  act  in  a  mean 
manner  we  have  seen  in  his  dealing  with  his  mother's  bequest 
in  favour  of  Sturla  Thordson,  but  he  never  enriched  himself 
by  the  viking  methods  of  raiding  and  plundering.  Though  not 
blameless  as  a  citizen,  he  really  compares  very  favourably  with 
the  leading  contemporary  godar  of  the  land,  exceptionally  so 
in  respect  of  his  sympathy  for  the  luckless  bishop  Gudmund  of 
Holar.  The  great  fault  of  his  life,  his  countrymen  maintain, 
was  his  promise  to  bring  Iceland  into  subservience  to  Norway. 
He  rued  the  mistake  and  did  nothing.  He  paid  the  penalty 
with  his  life. 


II— THE  AUTHOR 

Snorri,  as  a  writer,  no  less  than  as  a  chief,  was  a  child — but  an 
exceptionally  brilliant  one — of  his  age. 

He  was  born  in  the  first  century  of  the  lettered  era  of  Iceland 
— the  twelfth — which,  in  respect  of  mental  culture,  stood,  as  we 
shall  see,  in  a  peculiar  relation  to  the  preceding — the  eleventh, 
which  was  a  really  illiterate  period,  though  runes  were  known 
and  used  for  lapidary  inscriptions,  and  sometimes,  as  we  learn 


Introductory  lv 

from  Egilssaga,1  for  memorial  songs  cut  on  logs  of  wood.  How- 
ever, the  illiterate  eleventh  century  forms  a  period  the  most  re- 
markable in  the  history  of  Icelandic  literature ;  for,  in  the  course 
of  it  the  art  of  truthfully  and  attractively  telling  a  story  is  so 
carefully  cultivated  as  to  be  raised  to  a  classical  standard.  A 
few  words  in  explanation  of  this  statement  are  in  place  here. 
The  colonists  of  the  country  settled  in  it  without  any  plan,  ex- 
cept so  far  that  the  ultimate  abode  was  reared  on  the  nearest 
habitable  spot  to  that  where  the  sacred  high-seat  pillars,  when 
such  were  on  board,  were  washed  ashore.  A  dreadful  solitude 
prevailed  throughout  the  land  for  a  long  time  while  the  process 
of  colonization  was  going  on  which  lasted  for  two-thirds  of  a 
century.2  The  result  was  an  unquenchable  curiosity  for  news 
from  without,3  which  grew  into  a  national  characteristic  and  re- 
mains so  in  the  sparsely  inhabited  land  to  this  day.  The  chief 
settlers  were  men  of  high  birth,  who  had  seen  better  days.  They 
left  behind  lands,  homes,  kindred,  environment;  they  took  with 
them  family  traditions,  family  pride,  martial  mettle,  uncurbed 
ambition.  In  the  widely-scattered  homes  the  family  circle  be- 
came the  centre  of  orally  rehearsed  family  stories  during  the  even- 
ings of  the  long  winter.  These  stories  were  easily  learnt  by  heart 
by  nimbleminded  listeners.  They  were  the  first  nuclei  of  the  Saga 
of  Iceland.  They  were  recited  at  religious  festivals  which  were 
presided  over  and  conducted  by  the  temple  godi ;  at  wedding- 
feasts,  and  at  Thing-motes  and  other  popular  gatherings.  In 
course  of  time  the  nucleus  expanded  into  a  complex  saga  re- 
cording the  acts  of  the  colonists  themselves  and  their  dealings, 
hostile  or  friendly,  with  one  another.  Ultimately  the  Althing 
at  Thingvellir,  where  the  elite  of  the  little  nation  congregated 
yearly,  became  the  great  centre  for  the  display  of  the  story-teller's 

1  F.  Jonsson's  ed.,  p.  286.  2  Ari,  Islendingabok,  ch.  3. 

3  Out  of  a  great  number  of  notices  in  the  sources  illustrative  of  this  state- 
ment let  me  adduce  one:  Magnus  Einarson  consecrated  Bishop  of  Skalholt, 
1134,  came  back  to  Iceland,  1135,  and  rode  straight-way  to  the  Althing. 
A  contested  case  at  law  was  being  argued  before  the  court.  '  Then  some  one 
came  up  to  the  court  and  said  that  now  came  Bishop  Magnus  riding  up  to 
the  Thing.  At  this  news  all  men  were  so  glad  that  they  went  home  (i.e., 
left  the  court).  The  Bishop  stepped  forth  unto  the  pavement  in  front  of  the 
church  and  told  all  the  people  the  tidings  which  had  befallen  in  Norway 
while  he  was  abroad  and  all  the  people  marvelled  much  at  his  eloquence 
and  lordliness.'    Hungrvaka,  ch.  13,  Bisk.  Sogur,  i.  p.  77. 


lvi  Introductory 

art,  and  from  there  the  saga  travelled  into  every  part  of  the 
country,  more  or  less  faithfully  remembered  and  recited  to 
curious  listeners.1  The  interesting  part  of  this  business  was  that 
the  teller  of  the  story  was,  in  most  cases,  placed  face  to  face 
with  critical  audiences.    The  chiefs  themselves,  their  children 

1  In  illustration  of  the  above  review  we  may  introduce  here  the  remark- 
able story  of  the  Icelandic  Saga  teller  and  Harald  Hardready,  Morkinskinna, 
p.  72-73:  So  it  befell,  one  summer,  that  a  man  of  Iceland,  young  and  brisk 
of  gait,  came  to  the  King  and  prayed  for  his  favour.  The  King  asked  if  he 
knew  any  lore,  and  he  said  he  knew  some  sagas.  Then  the  King  said  he 
would  take  him  in,  but  he  must  be  ready  to  entertain  (skemta)  always  who- 
soever should  ask  him.  And  this  he  does,  and  is  befriended  by  the  court- 
folk,  who  gave  him  raiments  while  the  King  furnished  him  with  weapons 
for  his  hand.  Thus  time  wears  away  until  Yule.  Then  sadness  fell  on  the 
Icelander,  and  the  King  asked  him  how  that  came  about.  He  said  it  rose 
from  his  changeable  temper.  'That  will  not  be  it,'  said  the  King.  '  I  will 
make  a  guess.  I  ween,'  says  he,  '  that  now  thy  sagas  are  at  an  end  ;  thou 
hast  always  entertained  this  winter  any  one  who  has  asked  thee,  and  thou 
art  troubled  of  mind  to  think  that  they  should  give  out  just  at  Yule-tide.' 
1  The  matter  is  even  as  thou  guessest,'  said  he.  '  There  is  left  yet  only  one 
more  saga,  but  that  I  dare  not  tell  here,  for  it  is  the  story  of  thy  journey 
abroad.'  The  King  said :  '  That,  of  all  sagas,  is  the  one  I  most  should  like 
to  hear  ;  and  now  you  shall  give  no  more  entertainment  until  Yule ;  besides 
now  the  men  have  much  work  on  hand.  But  on  Christmas  day  thou  shalt 
begin  this  saga,  and  tell  some  part  of  it ;  but  together  with  thee  I  shall  see 
to  it,  that  the  saga  shall  hold  out  as  long  as  the  Yule-tide  lasts.  Now  through 
Yule  there  are  great  drinkings  going  on,  and  people  have  but  short  time  to 
sit  listening  to  an  entertainment ;  but  while  thou  art  telling  thou  wilt  not  be 
able  to  find  out  whether  I  like  it  well  or  ill.'  And  now  it  comes  to  pass  that 
the  Icelander  tells  the  story,  beginning  on  Christmas  day  and  goes  on  for  a 
while  until  the  King  presently  tells  him  to  stop.  The  men  fall  to  drinking 
and  many  of  them  make  it  a  matter  of  talk  that  at  any  rate  it  is  an  over- 
boldness  in  the  Icelander  to  tell  this  story,  or,  what  would  the  King  think 
about  it  ?  Some  of  them  thought  the  Icelander  told  the  story  well,  others 
were  less  easily  won  over  ;  and  thus  the  thing  goes  on  through  Yule-tide. 
The  King  saw  to  it  carefully  that  the  men  should  give  heedful  hearing  (to  the 
saga)  and  by  the  King's  watchfulness  it  so  happened  that  the  saga  and  the 
Yule-tide  came  to  an  end  together.  And  Twelfth-night  evening,  the  saga 
having  been  finished  while  it  was  daylight,  the  King  said:  'Art  thou,  Ice- 
lander, not  curious  to  know  how  I  like  the  saga  ? '  '  I  fear  me  of  it,  Lord,' 
said  the  Icelander.  'I  like  it  right  well,'  said  the  King,  'it  is  in  no  case 
worse  than  the  deeds  warrant ;  or,  who  taught  thee  the  saga  ? '  He  answers : 
'  It  was  a  wont  of  mine  out  in  Iceland  to  go  every  summer  to  the  Althing, 
and  I  learnt  by  heart  each  summer  a  part  of  the  saga  from  Halldor  Snorri- 
son.'  'Then  it  is  no  wonder,'  said  the  King,  'that  thou  knowest  it  well ; 
this  will  make  thy  good  luck ;  and  be  thou  with  me  and  be  welcome ;  that 
offer  thou  avail  thyself  of  whenever  thou  choosest.'  The  King  fetched  him  a 
good  store  of  trading  goods  and  he  became  a  man  of  substance. 


Introductory  lvii 

and  relatives  would  in  most  cases  be  numbered  among  the 
crowd  of  interested  listeners,  and  would  be  certain,  if  necessary, 
to  interrupt  and  correct  the  reciter,  whenever  his  delivery  failed 
in  veracity  as  to  facts,  or  offended  against  fairness.  In  fact,  the 
story-teller  was  here  at  a  school  which  enforced  upon  him  the 
principle  of  impartiality  and  the  duty  of  carefully  collecting  facts; 
for  to  them  must  be  left  the  task  of  showing  which  side  to  a  story 
was  in  the  right,  which  in  the  wrong,  and  to  what  extent.  In  this 
manner  it  came  about,  that  to  tell  a  story  fairly,  i.e.,  truthfully, 
was  a  moral  duty  and  the  highest  matter  of  honour,  while  telling 
a  '  leaning  story  '  (halla  sogu)  was  regarded  as  the  meanest  of 
actions,  and  more  than  once  cost  the  perpetrator  his  life.1  In 
the  relation  existing  between  reciters  and  their  audiences  lies 
hidden  the  cause  of  the  faithfulness  of  the  oral  saga  tradition  of 
Iceland.  In  the  fact  that,  in  a  martial  age,  the  home  was  the 
cradle  of  this  tradition,  we  have  the  explanation  of  so  many 
Icelandic  women  being  mentioned  as  sources  of  historical  in- 
formation. 

In  the  year  1056  the  Christian  Church,  organized  under  a 
bishop,  landed,  pen  in  hand,  in  Iceland,  and  set  to  teaching  the 
use  of  it  to  its  illiterate  children  with  such  a  success,  that  in  the 
beginning  of  the  twelfth  century  writing  in  Roman  characters 
seems  to  have  become  a  common  item  of  culture.  And  now  is 
manifested  the  peculiar  relation,  alluded  to  above,  in  which  the 
twelfth  stands  to  the  eleventh  century  :  the  twelfth  copies  down 
the  polished  oral  tradition  of  its  predecessor,  and  produces  the 
great  bulk  of  the  saga  literature  of  Iceland.  It  did  more.  It 
produced  brilliant  scholars  in  the  science  of  history,  the  earliest 
of  whom,  Ssmund  Sigfusson  the  Learned,  and  Ari  Thorgilson 
the  Learned  stand  out  in  their  high  appreciation  of  accurate 
chronology,  as  disciples  of  the  oral  tradition  school,  imbued 
with  its  enthusiasm  for  the  accurate  preservation  of  the 
memorials  of  the  past. 

SiEMUND,  son  of  Sigfus  Lodmundson,  a  priest  of  Oddi, 
was  born  in  1056  and  died  1 133  ;  in  early  youth  he  went  abroad 
and  was  lost  sight  of  for  a  long  time,  until  he  was  discovered,  in 
1076,  at  Paris,  studying  under  a  great  master  of  astronomy.2 
In  referring  to  this  event  the  Benedictine  monk  of  Thingeyrar 

1  Njala,  1875,  cn-  I55c  2b»  Olaf  Holy's  Saga,  Heimskr.,  ii.  222I4.20 
*  Jon's  saga,  Bisk.  Sogur,  i.  227-230. 


lviii  Introductory 

Gunnlaug  Leifson  observes,  that  Ssemund  was  '  one  of  the  most 
profitable  of  men  to  the  church  of  God  in  this  land,1  while  the 
author  of  Hungrvaka  describes  him  '  as  exceeding  wise  and  of 
all  men  the  most  learned'  ;2  and  Odd  Snorrison  as  :  '  illustrious 
for  wisdom '  ('agetr  at  speki').3  That  Ssemund  must  have  been 
a  great  authority  on  the  history  of  Iceland  as  well  as  that  of 
Norway  is  clear  from  the  fact  that  Ari  submits  to  his  inspection 
the  first  edition  of  his  '  Islendingab6k  '  and  relies  on  his  chrono- 
logy in  respect  of  the  death  of  Olaf  Tryggvison.1  That 
Ssemund  wrote  a  book,  is  attested  to  by  Odd  Snorrison :  '  So 
has  Ssemund  written  in  his  book  (sva  hefir  Ssemundr  rita'S  .  .  . 
i  sinni  b6k),5  but  we  are  in  possession  of  but  few  particulars  as  to 
the  contents  of  that  book.  It  can  hardly  be  doubted,  however, 
that  it  was  an  historical  account  of  kings  of  Norway  up  to 
Magnus  the  Good,  paying  close  attention  to  chronology.  This 
would  seem  to  be  borne  out  by  the  panegyric  poem  '  Noregs 
konunga  tal '  addressed  to  Jon  Loptson,  Ssemund's  grandson, 
in  which  the  poet  enumerates  the  rulers  of  Norway  with  their 
regnal  years,  and  declares  in  the  fortieth  stanza  that  for  the 
regnal  years  of  the  first  ten  of  them,  Harald  Hairfair — Magnus 
the  Good,  both  inclusive,  he  depends  upon  the  authority  of 
Ssemund.6  That  this  book  of  Ssemund's  was  in  Latin  may  be 
inferred  from  Snorri's  preface  to  Heimskringla,  where  he  states 
that  Ari  the  Learned  was  the  l first  man  of  this  land,  who  wrote 
down  lore,  both  old  and  new,  in  the  speech  of  the  North?  This 
statement  gains  all  the  more  weight  when  we  consider  that  a 
copy  of  Ssemund's  book  must  have  been  found  in  the  Library 
of  Oddi,  and  Snorri  must  have  been  aware  of  its  existence,  nay, 
must  have  studied  it  there.  This  we  infer  from  Snorri's  own 
words,  where  he  says  of  Ari :  '  I  deem  his  lore  altogether  most 
noteworthy  (pykki  mer  hans  sogn  oil  merkilegust).' 8  In  the 
period  of  the  preface  to  Heimskringla  where  these  words  occur, 
Snorri  is  dealing  with  Ari's  historical  (chronological)  criticism. 
Before  Snorri,  only  the  two  men  Ari  and  Ssemund  are  mentioned 

1  Jon's  Saga,  Bisk.  Sogur,  i.  156-157. 

2  Hungrvaka,  Bisk.  Sogur,  i.  67. 

3  Saga  01.  Tryggv.  s.  ch.  32,  Fornm.  Sogur,  x.  289. 

4  Islendingabok,  preface  and  ch.  7.  5  /.  c. 

6  Fornm.  Sogur,  x.  422-427,  Corpus  poet.  ii.  310-315. 

7  Heimskringla,  i.  5.  8  /.  c. 


Introductory  lix 

as  in  a  special  sense  historical  critics.  Both  were  cited  as 
historical  authorities  in  sources  which  Snorri  himself  made  use 
of,  and  Saemund  especially  by  Ari  himself,  as  we  have  seen.  It 
would  then  seem  an  obvious  conclusion  that  by  the  superlative 
'  most  noteworthy '  Snorri  gives  inferentially  to  understand  that 
he  rejects  Saemund,  as  an  historical  guide,  in  favour  of  Ari, 
where  their  chronological  calculations  do  not  coincide.  And, 
as  a  matter  of  fact,  strange  as  it  may  seem,  he  never  mentions 
Saemund  in  Heimskringla.  The  statement  here  in  question 
seems  to  point  to  Snorri's  having  understood  Latin.  In  the  re- 
verse case  he  would  hardly  have  laid  himself  publicly  open  to 
the  retort  that  he  acted  discreetly  in  discarding  authorities  he 
did  not  understand.  The  statement  may  also  point  another 
way.  It  may  be  a  veiled,  unkind  hint  of  Snorri's  to  his  family- 
proud  foster-brother,  that  great  as  people  may  consider  the 
authority  of  his  great-grandfather,  he  is  not  to  be  compared 
with  Ari.  In  that  case  the  preface  to  Heimskringla  would  be 
written  down  after  1220,  when  the  relations  between  Snorri  and 
the  kindred  of  Saemund  Jonsson  took  such  a  hostile  turn,  but 
hardly  after  1222,  when  they  were  all  at  peace  again.  And  it  is 
agreed  on  all  hands  that  first  after  his  return  from  Norway  in 
1220  Snorri  must  have  set  to  work  on  the  composition  of 
Heimskringla.  However,  although  Snorri  did  not  use  Saemund 
as  a  guide  in  writing  his  history,  it  by  no  means  follows  that  the 
perusal  of  Saemund's  book  in  his  studious  days  at  Oddi  did  not 
exercise  a  permanent  influence  upon  him  as  historian. 

ARI  THORGILSON  the  Learned  (106 7-1 148)  preceded 
Snorri  by  only  thirty  years.1  For  this,  the  most  careful  of  all 
historians,  Snorri  professes  the  highest  admiration.  Ari's  method 
was  to  ascertain  facts  from  the  highest  authorities  he  had  access 
to :  old  men  and  wise,  of  faithful  memory,  and  who  themselves 
or  their  informants  were  separated  in  time  by  the  shortest  dis- 
tance from  the  events  they  attested  to.  This,  no  doubt,  was  a 
method  inherited  from  the  oral  tradition  school,  to  which  all 
Ari's    authorities   belonged   with   the   exception,    perhaps,    of 

1  For  the  scanty  information  relating  to  his  life  we  refer  to  Vigfusson's 
ed.  of  Sturlunga,  I.  xxvii-xxviii.  Vigfusson  knows,  as  he  says,  the  name  of 
his  wife  and  that  of  a  daughter's  of  his,  but  gives  neither  name,  nor  a  refer- 
ence to  any  source  which  has  supplied  him  with  the  information.  Diligent 
research  by  scholars  has  failed  to  this  day  in  unravelling  this  mystery. 


lx  Introductory 

Saemund.  We  are  here  concerned  only  with  his  c  Islendingab6k,' 
of  which  only  the  second  edition  is  still  in  existence,  a  tiny  book 
of  ten  chapters  besides  preface  and  two  genealogical  appendixes 
of  a  later  date  than  the  rest.  He  tells  in  his  severely  concise 
manner  the  history  of  the  origin  of  both  editions  as  follows :  '  I 
wrought,  for  our  bishops  Thorlak  and  Ketil,  Islendingab6k,  and 
I  showed  it  to  them  and  to  priest  Ssemund.  And  according  as 
they  were  pleased  to  leave  the  matter  as  it  was,1  or  to  add 
thereto,  I  wrote  this  one  for  the  same  period,2  leaving  out 
genealogy  and  lives  of  Kings,  and  added  what  since  (I  wrote 
the  first  book)  I  came  to  know  better,  and  which  is  now  more 
fully  set  forth  in  this  (book)  than  in  that  (other).' 3 

It  was  the  older  edition,  containing  genealogy,  in  a  collective 
sense,  and  lives  of  Kings,  which  Snorri  depended  upon  when 
he  wrote  Heimskringla.  When  he  says  that  he  has  written  in 
this  book  besides  tales  of  rulers  in  the  north,  '  also  certain  of 
their  lines  of  kindred  according  as  they  have  been  taught  to  me] 4 
we  may  conclude  that  it  is  Ari's  '  genealogy '  he  is  referring  to, 
and  that  Islendingab6k  I  was  used  as  a  text-book  at  the  school 
of  Oddi.  Here  a  question  arises.  In  saying  that  he  wrought 
this  book  for  the  bishops  Thorlak  of  Skalholt  and  Ketil  of 
Holar,  does  Ari  not  plainly  indicate  that  he  wrote  it  to  their 
order?  The  answer  must  be  in  the  affirmative.  We  have  not  to 
deal  with  an  author's  spontaneous  product  which,  as  a  matter 
of  literary  curiosity  he  submits  to  interested  friends  in  order  to 
have  their  opinion  about  it.  On  the  contrary,  he  shows  it  to 
the  Bishops  in  order  to  know  if  it  may  stand  as  he  has  written 
it.  They  recommend  excision  of  certain  matters  of  foreign 
history,  and  Ari,  in  order  that  his  book  may  the  more  properly 
answer  the  purpose  for  which  it  was  required,  undertakes  the 
trouble  of  writing  it  over  again  on  the  lines  indicated  by  the 
prelates.  In  a  spontaneous  product  the  excised  matter  would 
have  been  a  most  valuable  addition  to  the  information  con- 
tained in  the  book,  but  in  this  instance  it  was  not  so,  because 

1  '  Sva  at  hafa '  — so  to  have  =  to  let  what  was  written  stand  as  it  was. 

2  '  Of  et  sama  far'=  over,  (covering)  the  same  course  (of  events),  cf. 
'  aldarfar,'  ratio  tempomm. 

3  'Isl.-bok,  pref. — Libellus  Islandorum  in  Origines  Islandicae,  i.  287. — 
The  translation  of  this  passage  in  Orig.  does  not  tally  with  the  text. 

4  Heimskringla,  i.  p.  5. 


Introductory  lxi 

it  did  not  answer  the  purpose  for  which  the  Bishops  wanted 
the  book.  And  what  was  that  purpose?  Obviously  trie  Bishops 
commissioned  the  writing  of  the  book  in  order  to  supply  the 
need  they  felt  of  providing  the  youth  at  the  cathedral  schools 
with  a  primer  in  the  history  of  their  own  land;  and  a  primer,  in 
the  true  sense,  the  book  is  throughout.  For  this  purpose  it  was 
ordered ;  corrected  ;  rewritten.  Even  its  strange  title  Libellus 
Is/andorum,  with  no  indication  of  subject  matter,  points  in  the 
same  direction.  Lastly  the  list  of  chapters  with  contents  indi- 
cated following  the  preface  stamps  the  book  formally  as  a  school- 
book.  — The  purpose  this  book  was  meant  to  serve  must  be 
allowed  to  account,  to  some  extent,  at  least,  for  its  accuracy, 
which  is  unsurpassed  by  any  other  literary  monument  from  the 
classic  era. 

Dr.  Finsen,  the  great  authority  on  the  laws  of  the  Icel. 
commonwealth,  drew  in  1887  Vigfusson's  attention  to  the  un- 
technical  nature  of  law-terms  in  this  book,  which  no  man 
familiar  with  the  legal  vocabulary  could  possibly  have  used. 
On  grounds  which  deserve  attention  and  further  examination, 
Vigfusson  came  to  the  conclusion  that  Ari  wrote  his  book 
originally  in  Latin  (which  seems  also  to  have  been  Finsen's 
idea),  and  that  the  translator  was  ignorant  of  law.1 

Snorri's  indebtedness  to  this  author  may  be  gleaned  both 
from  the  preface  to  Heimskringla  and  from  the  references  to 
his  name  in  the  body  of  the  work.  {See  Index  I,  Ari  Thorgilson.) 
To  trace  the  actual  amount  of  material  Snorri  may  have  fetched 
from  Ari  must  be  left  unattempted  here  on  account  of  want  of 
space. 

Besides  these  two  great  historians  of  the  twelfth  century,  four 
more  older  than  Snorri  are  known  by  name,  not  as  authorities 
on  chronological  criticism,  which  was  regarded  as  settled  for 
ever  by  Ssemund  and  Ari,  but  as  simply  composers  of  historical 
narratives.    Of  these  the  earliest  seems  to  be  : 

ERIC  ODDSON,  a  younger  contemporary  of  Ari;  for  aught 
we  know  he  may  have  been  his  disciple  ;  as  an  historian,  at  any 
rate,  he  is  a  rigid  adherent  to  Ari's  method.  Snorri  calls  him 
'a  wise  man'  (the  author  of  Morkinskinna :  'a  wise  man  and 
sagacious')  and  avers  that  'he  was  a  long  time  in  Norway' 

1  Origines,  i.  282-286. 


lxii  Introductory 

during  the  reign  of  the  sons  of  Harald  Gilli  (1136-1161).  He 
wrote  a  book  called  Hryggjarstykki  (Backbone-piece),  contain- 
ing the  history  of  Harald,  his  two  sons,  Sigurd  and  Ingi,  besides 
that  of  Magnus  the  Blind  and  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  '  some 
.  .  .  from  the  telling  of  Hakon  Maw,  a  landed-man  of  the  sons 
of  Harald;  and  Hakon  and  his  sons  took  part  in  all  their  strifes 
and  counsellings';  some  from  'wise  men  and  proven  true  who 
were  anigh,  so  that  they  heard  or  saw  the  things  that  happened, 
but  some  he  wrote  down  from  his  own  sight  or  hearing.'  Here 
we  see  the  method  of  Ari  ideally  realized  in  favourable  circum- 
stances. For  references  to  this  source  of  Snorri's  history,  see 
Eric  Oddson,  Index  I,  p.  39;  cf.  also  Morkinskinna,  p.  210. 

KARL  JONSSON,  twice  abbot  of  the  Benedictine  monastery 
of  Thingeyrar  in  the  north  of  Iceland  (1 169-1 181  and  again  after 
the  death  of  abbot  Kari  1187,  perhaps  with  a  year's  interval, 
till  1207,  when  he  finally  resigned  the  office  and  lived  in  retire- 
ment till  his  death,  12 13,  having  been  for  thirty-five  years  a  con- 
temporary of  Snorri).  He  went  to  Norway  in  1185  and  remained 
there,  until  he  returned  to  his  monastery,  engaged  in  composing 
the  saga  of  King  Sverrir  (1 184-1202),  the  whole  of  which  prob- 
ably is  due  to  his  pen.  The  first  part  was  indited  to  him  by  the 
King  himself,  while  the  second  was  gathered  '  from  persons  who 
remembered  having  themselves  seen  and  heard  the  things  that 
happened,  while  some  of  them  had  been  present  at  the  very 
battles  described.' l — That  Snorri  must  have  known  this  pecu- 
liarly interesting  saga  is  proved  by  the  reference  to  Sverrir, 
Heimskr.  Ill,  396  ;  but  the  recension  he  knew  of  Sverrir's  saga 
seems  to  have  differed  from  the  present ;  he  had  no  occasion, 
however,  to  draw  on  it  for  the  Heimskringla  which  terminates 
in  1 1 7  7  on  the  very  eve  of  Sverrir's  appearance  as  claimant  to 
the  crown  of  Norway.  Whether  it  served  him  as  a  source  of 
inspiration  for  his  lost  song  or  songs  on  Sverrir  we  cannot  tell ; 
it  is  by  no  means  improbable. 

Contemporary  with  abbot  Karl  was  a  monk  of  Thingeyrar 
ODD  SNORRISON,  about  whose  life  but  little  is  known,  ex- 
cept that  he  was  descended  from  a  settler  named  Steingrim  who 
gave  name  to  Steingrimsfirth  in  the  Strands  in  north-western 
Iceland  and  made  his  own  all  the  lands  thereof.    Odd  wrote  a 

1  Sverrir's  Saga,  Fms.  viii.  5  ;  Konunga  sogur,  ed.  Unger,  1873,  P-  *■ 


Introductory  \x\Y\ 

saga  of  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  Latin,  the  original  of  which  is  lost, 
but  an  Icelandic  translation  of  it  in  three  recensions  still  exists; 
of  these  recensions  the  two  are  defective,  the  third  a  mere  frag- 
ment of  two  leaves.1  He  has  made  use  of  Ari  and  Saemund  for 
chronological  purposes.  But  the  historical  stuff  he  probably  had 
from  the  same  persons  who  told  a  story  of  Olaf  Tryggvison  to  a 
fellow  '  brother '  at  Thingeyrar,  Gunnlaug  Leifsson.  Those  in- 
formants, again,  must  have  known  how  to  father  their  narratives 
on  contemporary  tellers  of  episodes  in  Olaf's  life ;  of  such  Odd 
names  several  as  witnesses  to  Olaf's  sudden  disappearance 
from  his  ship  at  the  battle  of  Svold :  Skuli  Thorsteinson,  Einar 
Thambarskelfir  and  Kolbiorn  the  Marshal ; 2  others,  in  support 
of  the  incredible  stories  that  went  about  of  Olaf's  escape  from 
death  and  sojourn  as  monk  in  Greece,  Palestine,  and  Syria; 
stories  which  Odd  says  he  believes  himself,  though  he  knows 
that  some  old  meti  ( =  sound  historians  of  the  old  school)  dis- 
credit them  ;  of  these  witnesses  he  names  the  two  Astrids,  wives 
of  Erling  of  Soli  and  Earl  Sigvaldi,  besides  (Upsala  fragment) 
'a  wise  man  called  Soti  the  Skald.'3  The  fact  of  the  matter  is, 
that  monastic  studies  in  legendary  and  miraculous  lore  warp  the 
historical  judgement  of  Odd  throughout.  As  an  historical  critic 
he  is  therefore  as  worthless  as  the  purely  historical  matter  (the 
real  tradition)  in  his  book  is  valuable.  Odd  is  one  of  the  author- 
ities whom  Snorri  makes  use  of  for  his  history,  borrowing  even 
some  of  his  fantastic  legends,  but  omitting  the  overwhelming 
mass  of  them,  and  in  one  instance  giving  plainly  to  understand 
that  he  does  not  regard  them  as  history.4  An  analysis  of  Snorri's 
indebtedness  to,  and  treatment  of,  this  author  would  require 
much  more  space  than  is  left  at  our  disposal. 

GUNNLAUG  LEIFSSON,  who  died  in  1 218  or  12 19,  was  a 
man  of  learning  and,  as  it  would  seem,  a  churchman  of  liberal 
views,  as  he  advised  the  clergy  in  the  diocese  of  Holar  to  dis- 
regard Bp.  Gudmund's  senseless  excommunications  and  ana- 

1  They  are  all  on  vellum,  Arnam.  310  40,  Islandica,  Royal  Lib.  Stockholm, 
20  40  Coll.  Delagard.  Upsala,  4-7  fol.  (2  leaves). 

-  A.M.  310,  Fms.  x.  p.  365-366,  Stockholm,  20,  Olaf  Tryggvisbns  Saga, 
ed.  Munch,  1853,  p.  61,  Upsala  fragm.,  ib.,  p.  69  (where  Styrkarr  a 
Gimsom  is  substituted  for  Einarr  Thambarskelfir). 

3  A.M.  310,  I.e.,  p.  370,  Stockholm  20,  I.e.,  p.  '63,  Upsala  fragm.,  /'/>., 
p.  70-71. 

4  Heimsk.,  vol.  i.,  334. 


lxiv  Introductory 

themas.  He  wrote  a  saga  of  J6n  Bp.  of  H61ar,  1106-1121,  a 
'  nova  historia  Sancti  Ambrosii,'  and  translated  into  Icelandic 
verse  the  prophesy  of  Merlin.1  He  also  wrote  a  saga  of  Olaf 
Tryggvison  in  Latin.  Of  that  work  only  fragments  in  Icelandic 
translation  now  exist,  inserted  in  the  great  Olaf's  saga  in 
Fornmannasogur  (i-iii),  and  the  recension  of  that  saga  in 
Flatey-book.  Both  recensions  state  that  '  the  brothers '  Gunn- 
laug  and  Odd  aver  that  '  these  persons  have  told  them  most  of 
what  they  have  put  together  and  set  forth  in  story  about  Olaf 
Tryggvison';  namely:  Gellir  jporgilsson,  Asgn'mr  Vetrli^ason, 
Biarni  Bergb6rsson  Ingunn  Arn6rsd6ttir,  Herdfs  Da^5ad6ttir, 
JjorgerSr  borsteinsddttir.' 2  In  the  A.M.  recension  of  Odd's 
saga,  ch.  73  winds  up  with  :  'Here  now  comes  to  an  end  the 
saga  of  Olaf  Tryggvison.'  Nevertheless  there  follow  four  more 
chapters,  in  the  third  of  which  we  read  :  '  This  saga  was  told 
to  me  by  abbot  Asgrim  VetrliSason  and,'  etc.  (exactly  the  same 
persons  as  above).  Originally  this  never  belonged  to  Odd's 
saga,  nor  have  these  four  additional  chapters  ever  been  com- 
prised in  the  recension  represented  by  the  Upsala  fragment 
which  exhibits  the  oldest  text.  This  statement  in  A.M.  310  is 
therefore  spurious,  though  it  has  found  its  way  into  MSS.  of 
Odd's  work  already  long  before  the  sagas  of  Olaf  in  Flat.  b.  and 
Fornm.  s.  were  compiled.  It  follows  therefore  that  the  above 
catalogue  of  informants  is  due  to  Gunnlaug  only.  It  stands  to 
reason,  however,  that  two  authors  living  at  one  and  the  same 
time  under  one  roof  engaged  in  one  and  the  same  literary  pur- 
suit should,  each  in  his  turn,  draw  information  from  the  same 
body  of  authorities  which  stood  at  the  other's  disposal.  Besides 
these  authorities,  Gunnlaug  professes  to  have  in  particular  made 
a  careful  use  of  the  '  books '  of  Ari.3  He  also  says  that  he 
showed  his  book  to  Gizur  Hallson  who  kept  it  for  two  years ; 
on  being  returned  to  Gunnlaug  he  emended  it  in  accordance 
with  Gizur's  suggestions.4 

Like  Odd,  Gunnlaug  is  too  absorbed  in  legendary  lore  and 
belief  in  the  miraculous  and  incredible  to  be  able  to  realize  that 
in  the  history  of  such  a  champion  of  Christianity  as  Olaf,  the 

1  Bisk.   Sogur,  i.  151-212,  215-260,   502,  ii.  77,  Corpus  Poet.  Bor.,  ii. 

372-379- 

2  Fms.,  iii.  173,  Flat,  b.,  i.  517.  3  Fms.,  iii.  163. 
4  Fms.,  iii.  17*3,  Flat.  b.,i.  517. 


Introductory  lxv 

dry,  scientific  method  of  Ari  and  Sasmund  could  do  proper  jus- 
tice to  his  hero.  He  copied  the  inditement  of  his  authorities 
probably  faithfully  enough;  but  of  criticism  he  was  incapable, 
for  he  was  writing  not  exactly  in  the  interest  of  history,  but  espe- 
cially in  that  of  the  victoriously  aggressive  Christian  cult. — 
Snorri  must,  in  all  probability,  have  known  Gunnlaug's  work, 
which  hardly  could  have  added  much  of  historical  value  to 
that  of  Odd ;  whether  he  really  made  any  extensive  use  of  it  for 
Heimskringla  is  a  matter  of  uncertainty. 

There  is  no  need  for  us  here  to  enter  into  any  special  con- 
sideration of  the  vast  body  of  anonymous  saga-literature  relat- 
ing to  Iceland  itself,  which  had  found  its  way  into  writing  before 
Snorri,  or  was  committed  to  writing  during  his  life-time;  of 
the  whole  mass  of  these  Sagas  there  is  only  one,  the  Egil's 
Saga,  that  claims  consideration  in  connection  with  Heimskringla. 
It  will  be  most  conveniently  dealt  with  among  the  other  anony- 
mous sources  of  that  work,  to  which  we  draw  attention  further  on. 

Of  the  works  of  Snorri,  the  first  to  be  considered  is  the 

EDDA.  The  name  as  well  as  the  authorship  is  attested  to 
by  old  MS.  authority.  The  codex  Upsaliensis,1  from  ab.  1325, 
has  the  following  heading  to  the  whole  work:  'This  book  is 
called  Edda;  it  is  put  together  by  Snorri  Sturlason  after  the 
manner  herein  set  forth:  First  there  is  told  of  the  Asfolk  and 
Ymir,  next  comes  Skaldskapar-mal  (Language  of  poetry),  and 
appellatives  of  many  things,  and  last  (the  poem)  'Key  to  metres' 
which  Snorri  wrought  on  King  Hakon  and  Duke  Skuli.' 

The  meaning  of  the  name  Edda,  as  title  of  this  book,  is  much 
disputed.  Professor  Konrad  Gislason  argued  in  '  Aarbbger  for 
nordisk  Oldkyndighed,'  1884,  that  it  was  derivable  from  '  6^Sr,' 
song,  and  meant  '  poetik,'  a  derivation  tacitly  accepted  by  profs. 
A.  Noreen,  Finnur  J6nsson,  etc.  I  have  shown  ~  that  such  a 
derivation  is  untenable,  because  x\o  genuine  Icelandic  root  'd^-' 
can  go  into  'edd-,'  and  have  proposed,  instead,  a  derivation  from 
Oddi,  according  to  which  Edda  must  mean  the  book  of  Oddi, 
as,  e.g.,  Vatns-hyrna  meant  the  book  of  Vatns-horn,  a  homestead 
so  called.  This  derivation  has  found  favour  with  such  authori- 
ties as  profs.  Sijmons  of  Groningen,  E.  Mogk  of  Leipzig,  and 
the  late   profound  scholar,  Dr.  J6n  jporkelson,  whose  view  of 

1  Edited  in  Edda  Snorra  Sturlusonar,  Hafniae,  1848-87,  vol.  ii.,  250-396. 
a  Saga-book  of  the  Viking  Club,  1896,  vol.  i.,  2,  pp.  230-232. 

vi.  e 


lxvi  Introductory 

the  matter  I  subjoin.1  The  derivation  from  Old  High  Germ. 
'  Erda'  (Corpus  Poet.  Bor.,  ii,  514)  cannot  be  taken  seriously.2 
It  is  objected  to  my  derivation  that  the  ancient  sources  afford 
no  evidence  to  show  that  the  book  ever  was  at  Oddi,  or  was 
associated  with  that  place.  But  these  very  sources  state  nothing 
to  the  contrary  either;  and  at  any  rate  show  clearly  enough  that 
the  nimbleminded  author  lived  at  that  place  from  infancy  until 
he  was  of  age.  We  do  not  want  to  be  told  in  so  many  words 
that  during  this  period  Snorri  conceived  the  idea,  and  laid  the 
foundation  of  his  future  literary  labours.  It  is  an  historical  fact 
that  he  did  so,  though  history  does  not  expressly  state  it.  In 
support  of  the  '  6^r '  derivation  it  is  advanced  that  three  poets 
of  the  fourteenth  century,  Eystein  Asgrimson,  canon  regular  of 

1  In  a  letter,  d.  'Reykjavik.  1.  juni,  1896'  he  says:  'Eg  se  ekkert  bvi 
til  fyrirstofcu  fra  mallegu  sjonarmi<5i,  a$  orfcifc  (Edda)  se  myndafc  af  Oddi. 
Hvort  bredda  er  komifc  af  broddr  lset  eg  osagt.  Fra  malsins  hlifc  er  ekkert 
a.  moti  bvi.  Mer  finst  spurningin  her  vera,  hvort  0  a  undan  tvefoldum 
samhljo<5anda  geti  me$  i-hljo$varpi  breytst  i  e.  Pa<5  finst  mer  bii  hafa  sann- 
a$  meS  beim  doemum,  er  \>\x  hefir  tilfoert,  og  fleiri  dcemi  ma  tilfoera,  t.d. 
bokki,  bekkr,  bekkilegr;  boSsIottr,  m.,  boftsletta,  f.,  hrollr,  hrella.  AS 
kenna  bok  viS  bann  bee,  bar  sem  hun  atti  heima,  var  alment.  Par  af  eru 
nofnin  Belgsdalsbok,  Bcejarbok,  Kalfalcekjarbok,  StaSarholsbok,  pingeyra- 
bok.  Ekkert  er  bvi  eSlilegra,  enn  aS  kenna  ba  bok,  sem  atti  heima  i  Odda  vi'S 
{jenna  boe.  Oddabok  hefSi  matt  kalla  hana,  enn  nafniS  '  Edda '  er  styttra 
og  handhcegra,  eins  og  fm  hefir  tekiS  fram.  Af '  60V  getr  '  Edda'  eigi  veriS 
komin,  J>a3  er  moti  bllum  malreglum.  Mig  furSar  a  bvi,  aS  KonraS  Gis- 
lason,  sem  venjulega  er  gloggsynn  maSr,  skyldi  geta  latiiS  ser  detta  i 
hug  a$  koma  fram  me£  ba  derivation.'  I.e. : — From  the  etymological  point 
of  view  I  see  nothing  standing  in  the  way  of  the  word  '  Edda  '  being  formed 
from  'Oddi'.  Whether  'bredda'  (big  knife)  comes  from  'broddr'  (goad) 
I  leave  undecided.  Etymologically  there  is  nothing  against  it.  To  me  the 
questionhere  seemstobe,  whetherobefore  a  double  consonant  can,  byz-umlaut, 
change  into  e.  This,  it  seems  to  me,  you  have  proved  by  the  examples  you 
have  adduced,  and  more  such  can  be  added,  e.g.,  'bokki'  (favour),  'bekkr' 
(favoured),  'bekkilegr'  (acceptable);  '  bo^slottr,'  m.,  'bo<5sIetta,'  f.  (a 
self-invited  guest) ;  '  hrollr '  (shudder),  '  hrella '  (to  grieve).  To  name  a 
book  after  the  house  which  was  its  home,  was  common ;  whence  the  names 
Belgsdalsbok,  etc.  Nothing  is  more  natural,  therefore,  than  to  name  a  book 
that  had  its  home  at  Oddi  after  that  house.  It  could  have  been  called 
'  Oddabok,'  but  the  name  '  Edda '  is  shorter  and  more  convenient,  as  you 
have  observed.  From  '  60Y  '  Edda  cannot  be  derived :  it  is  contrary  to  all 
rules  of  language  (etymological  principles).  I  wonder  how  Konrad  Gis- 
lason,  usually  such  a  clear-sighted  man,  could  ever  take  it  into  his  head  to 
bring  forward  such  a  derivation. 

2  Saga-book  of  the  Viking  Club,  ib.,  pp.  223-226. 


Introductory  lxvii 

Thykkvilxer  in  eastern  Iceland,  f  1361,  Arngrim,  abbot  of 
Thingeyrar,  in  northern  Iceland,  t  1361  and  Ami  J6nsson,  abbot 
of  Munka)>vera,  northern  Iceland,  f  1379,  renounce  respectively 
obedience  to  '  Eddu  regla,'  rule  of  Edda;  '  reglur  Eddu,'  rules  of 
Edda;  '  Eddu  list,'  art  of  Edda.  We  must  first  observe  here  that 
'regla, "reglur,"  list,' are  synonymous  terms  for 'kenning,' poetical 
periphrasis,  the  principles  of  which  are  taught  in  a  portion  of  the 
second  section  of  Edda,  the  '  Skaldskaparmal.'  But  the  '  regla,' 
'reglur,' '  list,  ^  exclude  the  third  section  of  the  Edda,  the  'Hattatal,' 
with  its  commentary,  which  is  really  the  section  that  properly  can 
be  called  '  poetics,'  because  it  deals  with  the  intricate  details  of 
Icelandic  metre.  This  section  the  poets  never  dreamt  of  disavow- 
ing anymore  than  of  giving  up  breathing  the  native  air.  Nor,  after 
all,  did  they  declare  against  the  teaching  of  the  '  Skaldskaparmal,' 
except  so  far  that  they,  being  Christian  bards,  were  disinclined  to 
make  use  of  '  kennings  '  made  up  of  heathen  elements.1  It  is  for 
their  abandonment,  only  to  this  extent,  of  Edda  rules  or  Edda  art 
that  theyapologize  to  their  readers.  Andasthe  terms  'Edda  rules,' 
'Edda  art,'  only  apply  to  certain  details  of  one  section  of  a  book 
which  for  more  than  a  century  previous  to  these  poets  had  gone  un- 
der the  name  of  Edda,  it  is  an  evident  thing  that  by  these  terms 
the  poets  only  mean  rules,  etc.,  found  in  the  book  called  Edda. 

Snorri's  Edda,  as  already  indicated,  falls  into  three  parts: 
Gylfaginning  (The  Deception  of  Gylfi),  Skaldskaparmal  (Lan- 
guage of  poetry),  Hattatal  (Key  to  metres),  with  an  elaborate 
commentary. 

GYLFAGINNING  (The  Deception  of  Gylfi)  is  the  first  sec- 
tion of  this  book,  and  is  so  called  because  Gylfi,  a  king  in  Swe- 
den, 'a  wise  man  and  of  manyfold  knowledge,'  hearing  of  the 
wondrous  cunning  of  the  Asfolk,  went,  in  the  guise  of  an  old 
man,  to  their  city,  Asgarth,  in  order  to  find  out  the  cause  of  the 
irresistible  success  that  attended  this  folk  in  all  their  undertak- 
ings. Coming  to  the  city  he  gave  himself  the  name  of  Gangleri 
(Wayworn);  but  the  Asfolk  were  so  cunningwise  that  they  knew 
beforehand  all  about  his  plan  and  dealt  with  him  accordingly. 
He  was  shown  into  a  great  palace,  Hava-holl  (High's-Hall), 
where  he  saw  before  him  three  high  seats,  in  each  of  which  a 

1  This  was  a  tendency  which  already  in  the  days  of  Olaf  the  Holy  began 
to  manifest  itself.  The  quotation  from  Skaldskaparmal,  below,  shows  that 
Snorri  also  was  familiar  with  it  (p.  lxx). 


lxviii  Introductory 

person  was  seated;  he  who  sat  in  the  lowest  seat  being  called 
Harr  (High),  the  next  Jafn-harr  (Even-high),  and  he  of  the 
highest  seat  jpriSi  (Third).  Having  asked  if  there  was  any  man 
of  knowledge  inside,  Gangleri  gets  the  answer  from  High  that 
he  will  not  get  out  of  the  place  but  the  wiser  for  coming.  Then 
Gangleri  starts  his  questioning.  He  is  mostly  answered  by  Highl- 
and the  whole  of  the  book  consists  of  questions  by  Gangleri, 
and  answers  from  the  occupants  of  the  high  seats. 

Formally,  therefore,  Gylfaginning  is  framed  on  the  pattern  of 
the  mediaeval  schoolbook,  and  is  evidently  intended  to  serve 
the  purpose  of  a  text-book  in  northern  mythology.  And,  as  a 
matter  of  fact,  the  overwhelming  mass  of  northern  myths, 
mythic  allusions  and  names  are  to  be  found  in  this  singularly 
rich  primer. 

Broadly  speaking,  the  connecting  thread  on  which  are  strung 
the  stories  that  make  up  the  contents  of  this  work  is  somewhat 
the  same  as  that  which  runs  through  the  Voluspa  from  begin- 
ning to  end :  chaos — origin  of  things  created — giants — gods- 
man — dwarfs — elfs— Yggdrasill — catalogue  of  gods  and  god- 
desses— origin  of  evil  (Loki) — Valhall  and  Einherjar  (Death- 
less champions)  [Sleipnir  (Odin's  horse) — Sik^bla'^nir  (Frey's 
ship) — Thor's  journey  to  Outgarth-Loki,  to  giant  Hymir] — ■ 
the  Baldr  tragedy — Loki's  punishment — Ragnarok  (end  of  the 
gods). 

The  primer  ends  by  Gangleri,  like  Thor  at  Outgarth-Loki's, 
being  suddenly  undeceived,  standing  in  the  midst  of  broad 
plains  and  seeing  no  hall  nor  any  of  the  surroundings  he  had 
been  facing  during  his  deception.  Whereupon  he  returned  home 
to  his  Swedish  realm,  telling  of  his  experience  a  tale  that  spread 
thenceforth  from  man  to  man. 

Snorri's  sources  have  been  for  the  most  part  written  records, 
notably  mythic  songs  such  as  we  find  in  the  collection  currently 
know  as  the  '  Elder  '  or  '  Poetical  Edda  ' ;  we  meet  here  with 
copious  quotations  from  Vdluspa,  Grimnismal  and  Vafyru^nis- 
mal,  besides  single  references  to  four  more  Older  Edda  poems; 
in  one  case  the  author  has  from  memory  made  up  a  single  verse 
out  of  verses  21,  29  and  47  of  Lokasenna.  In  many  cases  he  has 
told  his  stories  without  mentioning  his  authorities,  some  of 
which  are  verifiable  in  the  still  existing  Edda  songs,  others  in 
court  poetry  or  mythic  songs  not  found  in  the  now  existing 


/;/  troductory  1  xi  x 

Edda  collection.  One,  an  otherwise  unknown  poem,  he  men- 
tions, Heimdallargaldr  (song  or  incantation  of  Heimdall),  but 
tantalizingly  supplies  only  two  lines  of  it;  however  they  are 
lines  of  importance,  conveying  Heimdall's  own  statement  as  to 
his  maternity  : 

I  am  nine  mothers'  child, 

I  am  nine  sisters'  son. 

Of  importance  it  is  to  notice  that  Snorri,  in  Chap.  I  quotes 
from  Thiodolf  of  Hvin  lines  which,  when  he  wrote  Heims- 
kringla,  he  had  come  to  know  were  really  by  Thorbiorn  Horn- 
klofi.  This  shows  that,  at  any  rate,  this  first  part  of  Snorri's 
Edda  was  written  down  before  Heimskringla,  the  Harald  Hair- 
fair's  story  of  which  was  penned  when  Snorri  had  learnt  the 
truth  about  the  authorship  of  the  poem  Hrafnsmal,  from  which 
the  quotation  in  question  is  derived.  It  would  also  seem  a 
result  of  later  and  fuller  information  that  Snorri,  in  his  Ynglinga 
Saga  has  so  much  more  to  tell  than  in  Gylvaginning  about  the 
war  between  the  Vanir  and  the  As-folk,  about  the  mutual  host- 
ages exchanged  at  the  end  of  that  war,  in  particular  Hoenir 
and  Mimir,  and,  above  all,  about  Odin  and  his  divine  attributes. 

As  a  literary  product  the  Gylfaginning  is  a  veritable  master- 
piece, not  only  as  regards  the  author's  command  of  the  con- 
fused mass  of  material  he  had  to  reduce  to  order  and  system, 
in  which,  for  a  thirteenth  century  writer,  he  had  eminently  suc- 
ceeded, but  also  as  concerns  his  command  of  the  language  in 
which  he  wrote.  His  style  is  one  of  dignified  simplicity  through- 
out, direct  and  crisp;  and  in  the  long  story  of  Thor's  bewildering 
and  exasperating  failures  at  Outgarth-Loki's  rises  to  a  point  of 
inimitable  perfection  in  descriptive  power  and  subdued  delicate 
humour. 

2.  SKALDSKAPARMAL  (Language  of  Poetry).  The  aim 
of  this  primer  is  best  expressed  in  the  words  of  the  author 
himself:  '  This  I  have  now  to  impress  on  young  poets  who  de- 
sire to  learn  the  language  of  poetry,  and  to  gather  in  a  store  of 
archaic  terms,  or  are  anxious  to  know  how  to  unravel  what  is 
sung  with  a  hidden  sense,  that  they  master  this  book  for  the 
improvement  of  their  mind  and  for  amusement.  But  it  behoves 
not  to  unlearn  or  give  the  lie  to  these  tales,  in  order  to  remove 
from  poetry  the  ancient  '  kennings  '  which  the  great  poets  have 


lxx  Introductory 

been  pleased  to  make  use  of;  not  that  therefore  Christian  men 
should  believe  in  heathen  gods  or  in  the  truth  of  these  tales  in 
any  other  way  than  the  one  indicated  in  the  beginning  of  this 
'book'1  {i.e.,  the  Preface  to  Gylfaginning  where  Snorri  appears 
as  a  sincerely  professing  Christian). 

This  primer,  as  the  foregoing,  begins  by  taking  the  form  of 
question  and  answer.  ^Egir  goes  on  a  visit  to  Asgarth,  and 
meets  there,  at  a  banquet  given  to  him  by  the  As-folk,  Odin's 
twelve  Diar,  or  supreme  judges,  and  eight  of  the  goddesses. 
Among  the  Diar  Bragi  the  poet  undertakes  to  entertain  .^Egir 
with  many  tales  of  adventures  which  had  befallen  the  As-folk, 
winding  up  with  a  long  account  of  the  events  which  lead  up  to 
the  drink  of  poetry  being  robbed  by  Odinn  from  the  giant 
Suttung  for  the  everlasting  benefit  of  the  As-folk. 

Questioned  /Egir :  In  how  many  ways  do  ye  vary  expressions 
in  poetry,  or  how  many  kinds  of  poetry  are  th ere ?— Answers 
Bragi:  There  are  two  kinds  by  which  poetry  divides. — ^Egir: 
What  two? — Bragi:  Language  and  metre. — JEgvc:  What 
kind  of  language  is  employed  in  poetry? — Bragi:  There  is  a 
threefold  distinction  applicable  to  the  language  of  poetry. — 
Which? — First:  calling  things  by  their  own  name;  the  second 
distinction  is  that  which  is  called  '  fornofn,'  vicarious  names, 
pronominations ; '  the  third  is  that  which  is  called  '  kenning  ' 
periphrasis  ...  as  when  we  say  sig-Tyr  (Tyr  of  victory)  or 
hanga-Tyr  (Tyr  of  men  hanged),  and  mean  by  it  Odin  (having 
given  to  him  the  name  of  another  god  associated  with  his  own 
attributes  or  predicates). 

The  whole  primer,  consisting  of  three  divisions,  is  a  collection 
of  illustrations  of  these  distinctions  of  poetical  diction.  The 
first  and  longest  deals  with  '  kennings '  for  certain  personalities 
and  a  great  variety  of  objects  besides.  We  have  kennings  for 
Odinn,  and  other  gods  and  goddesses,  for  man,  kings,  Christ, 
poetry,  heaven,  earth,  sea,  sun,  summer,  wind,  fire,  winter,  gold, 
battle,  weapons,  etc. — Secondly  follows  the  section  on  bkend 
heiti,  poetical  appellatives,  terms  used  in  poetry  for  objects 
which  commonly  are  called  by  other  names,  corresponding  to 
Bragi's  first  distinction  of  the  language  of  poetry.   Such,  e.g., 

1  Snorri's  Edda,  ed.  Finnur  Tonsson,  p.  74. 

2  As  is,  e.g.,  fa$ir,  sonr,  brofcir,  frrendi,  standing  for  the  actual  names- 
of  the  persons  thus  designated. 


Introductory  lxxi 

are  the  terms  '  bragr,'  'hr6:Sr,'  '  6^Sr,'  '  mser?,'  '  lof,'  synony- 
mous with  the  common  prose  term  '  skaldskapr,'  poetry.  A 
large  number  of  examples  are  adduced  in  illustration  of  this 
synonymy.  Thirdly  follow  the  pronominations  with  no  illustra- 
tions from  poetry  but  plenty  from  prose. 

Snorri  illustrates  the  '  kennings  '  and  the  poetical  appellatives 
with  no  less  than  335  quotations,  longer  or  shorter,  from  some 
seventy  poets,  which  shows  how  well  the  library  he  had  at  his 
disposal  was  stocked  with  poetical  literature,  and  how  carefully 
he  used  it  for  a  scholarly  purpose.  As  a  guide  to  young  poets, 
this  handbook  must  have  admirably  served  the  twofold  purpose 
of  stimulating  their  interest  in  collecting  and  preserving  the 
old  poetry,  and  of  inspiring  them  with  a  desire  to  master  the 
principles  of  the  great  coryphei  from  the  age  of  court-minstrelsy, 
the  golden  period  of  which  already  now  was  on  the  wane. 

3.  HATTATAL  (literally  '  Tale  of  metres  ').  This  is  a  poem 
(or  rather  three  poems)  by  Snorri  Sturlason  himself,  consisting  of 
102  stanzas  in  as  many  different  variations  of  metre,  the  most 
extraordinary  poetical  tour  de  force  from  the  classic  time.  It  is 
accompanied  by  a  commentary  very  elaborate  up  to  the  70th 
stanza,  less  so  for  the  rest  of  the  poem.  This  poem  forms  a 
direct  continuation  of  the  subject  of  Skaldskaparmal,  and  illus- 
trates the  second  point  of  Bragi's  second  answer  to  &<g\x  (above 
p.  lxx),  namely,  the  formal  side  of  poetry — Metre  (hattr,  pi. 
haettir). 

The  poem  falls  into  the  following  three  sections: 

1.  Stanzas  1-30,  an  encomium  on  the  young  King  of  Norway, 
Hakon  Hakonson. 

2.  St.  31-67,  an  encomium  on  Earl  Skuli  Bardson  (1189- 
1240),  Hakon's  father-in-law.  This  section  winds  up  with  a  re- 
ference to  the  fall  of  Gunnar,  son  of  Asa,  whom  Skuli  overcame 
in  a  fight  at  Apaldrssetr  (Appletree-seat),  in  Vetta-district  of 
Ranrealm,  in  late  autumn  1221  ; '  so  this  poem  could  have  been 
composed  not  before  the  summer  of  1222,  when  the  news  of 
Skuli's  victory  first  could  have  reached  Iceland. 

3.  St.  68-102,  a  panegyric  on  both  lords. 

In  the  69th  stanza  Snorri  says:  '  I  wrought  three  poems,  well 
known  to  people,  on  the  brother  of  a  king  {i.e.,  on  Skuli,  brother 

1  Hakon's  Saga,  p.  64. 


1  xxi  i  Introductory 

to  K.  Ingi  Bardson);  now  shall  '  wade '  forth  the  fourth  song  of 
praise  on  the  [fight-merry  disturber  of  the  peace  of  the  water's  fiery 
sheen] '  =  valiant  scatterer  of  gold  =  bounteous  lord  =  Earl  Skuli. 
The  third  of  his  poems  to  which  Snorri  refers  here  as  '  known 
to  people,'  must  be  that  which  makes  the  second  section  of 
Hattatal.  For  already  on  his  return  from  Norway  in  1220,  we 
have  it  on  the  authority  of  his  nephew,  Sturla  Thordson,  that 
he  had  wrought  two  poems  in  praise  of  Earl  Skuli.1  And  again, 
towards  the  end  of  the  third  section  of  Hattatal,  Snorri  himself 
says :  '  In  bringing  the  lord  of  the  Mere-folk  (Skuli),  four 
poems,  I  was  mindful  of  the  bounteous  lord's  fifteen  great  gifts.'2 
Thus  the  evidence  is  clear  that  Snorri  wrought  on  Skuli  two 
poems  (lost  except  the  'split-refrain'  Klofa-stef,  of  one)3  before 
1220,  and  two  more  (Hattatal,  sections  2  and  3)  after  that  date. 
We  have  seen  that  the  first  and  second  poems  of  Hattatal  can- 
not have  been  composed  before  the  summer  of  1222.  The 
nearer  limit  for  the  composition  of  these  poems  may  possibly 
be  fixed  by  the  fact  that  no  allusion  is  made  to  the  capitulation 
of  Sigurd  Ribbung  to  Skuli  in  the  early  spring  of  1223.  This 
was  looked  upon  as  '  the  fairest  victory  won  by  Earl  Skuli,  as 
it  established  peace  throughout  all  Norway.1  Had  Snorri  been 
aware  of  this  laudable  deed  of  his  much-lauded  patron  when  he 
wrote  Hatt.  2,  he  would  certainly  not  have  passed  it  over  in 
silence.  To  do  so  would  have  amounted  to  an  insult  in  a 
protege  so  tightly  gift-bound  to  Skuli  as  Snorri  was.  The  news 
of  this  event  must  have  reached  Iceland  during  the  sailing 
season  (summer  ■+•  early  autumn),  of  1 2  23.  Accordingly  Hattatal 
2  must  have  been  composed  in  the  course  of  the  months  that 
covered  the  summer  and  winter  of  1222,  and  the  winter,  spring 
and  early  summer  of  1223.  But  as  to  his  fourth  poem  on  Skuli, 
Hatt.  3,  we  have  the  author's  own  statement,  in  the  beginning 
of  it,  stanza  69,  that  he  '  wrought  on  the  king's  brother  (Skuli) 
three  poems  known  to  "  the  public  "  '  (kunn  J5J6S).  The  third 
of  these  three  must  be  Hatt.  2.  That  by  the  time  Snorri  begins 
his  fourth  song  on  Skuli  he  should  state  that  the  third  was  al- 
ready known  to  people  (generally),  can  have  no  other  meaning 
than  that  between  the  composition  of  the  third  (Hatt.  2)  and 
fourth  (Hatt.  3)  poems  some  considerable  time  had  intervened. 

1  Sturl.,  i.  244.  2  Cf.  Sturl.,  ibid.  3  Ibid. 

i  Hakon's  Saga,  pp.  73-74,  cf.  Mobius,  Hattatal  I,  pp.  33-34. 


Introductory  lxxiii 

We  cannot  see  how,  in  the  face  of  this  evidence,  the  opinion 
can  be  held  that  the  whole  of  Hattatal  was  written  at  one  sitting, 
as  it  were,  in  1222  or  1223.  We  have  no  means  of  ascertaining 
when  the  fourth  poem  was  wrought;  we  can  only  say  with  cer- 
tainty that  its  composition  must  have  taken  place  before  1237, 
when  Skuli  was  created  Duke,  for  in  the  Hattatal  he  is  only 
referred  to  as  earl,  several  times  so  in  Hatt.  3,  which  winds  up 
in  these  words : 

Abide  hail  age, 

In  halls  of  plenty, 

King  and  Earl! 

So  close  my  song ! 
From  Hattatal,  as  a  poem,  we  learn  what  a  peerless  master 
of  the  technique  of  Icelandic  poetry  Snorri  must  have  been; 
from  his  commentary  to  it,  what  a  training  he  has  in  exposing 
the  prosodic  intricacies  of  the  interminable  varieties  of  metres 
in  which  that  poetry  could  be  expressed.  But  it  is  not  an  easy 
matter  to  deal  with  the  technical  terms  of  this  commentary  so 
as  to  make  them  understood  by  foreigners.  Like  Skaldskap- 
armal,  this  is  a  work  of  the  first  importance,  not  only  as  a 
primer  for  the  use  of  the  generation  of  poets  contemporary  with 
Snorri,  who  looked  upon  his  enunciations  as  law,1  but  really  for 
all  time,  on  account  of  the  insight  it  affords  the  student  of  the 
ancient  poetry  into  the  amazing  wealth  of  technical  detail  with 
which  the  laboratory  of  the  old  '  song-smiths '  was  furnished. 

In  Skaldatal  (Tale  of  Skalds),  or  catalogue  of  poets  who  in 
song  commemorated  the  deeds  of  Princes,  titled  lords,  and  lesser 
Magnates  in  and  out  of  Scandinavia  down  to  the  thirteenth 
century,2  Snorri  enters  as  a  court  poet  of  the  Kings  Sverrir 

1  Cf.  Snorr.  Edda,  Hafniae,  1848-87,  II.  8:  'We  may  well  follow  them 
(the  old  poets)  in  using  '  kennings '  no  further  spun-out  (reknar)  than  Snorri 
allows.'  Cf.  also  Snorri's  rule,  Hattatal,  comm.  to  str.  8.:  'the  ninth 
(poetical  licence)  is  to  spin  out  a  kenning  to  the  fifth  link  (or  constituent), 
but  to  carry  it  further  is  out  of  order  ;  which,  even  if  it  be  found  in  works 
of  ancient  poets  we  now  regard  as  of  no  worth.'    Sn.  Edda,  F.  Jonsson, 

P«  J53- 

*  Found  in  A.  M.  761  40,  copied  by  Ami  Magnusson  out  of  '  Codex 
Academicus  primus '  as  he  called  the  MS.  '  Kringla,'  the  best  of  the  Heims- 
kringla  MSS.  (orig.  lost);  also  in  the  Upsala  Cod.  of  Snorri's  Edda.  Edited 
in  'Snorra  Edda,'  Hafniae,  1848-87,  Vol.  III.,  pp.  251-286,  and  Mobius' 
Catalogus  librorum  Islandicorum  et  Norvegicorum  x-tatis  media;,  Lipsiae, 
1856,  pp.  169-194. 


lxxiv  Introductory 

(1184-1202)  and  Ingi  Bardson  (1203-1217)  and  of  Earl  Hakon 
Galinn  (besides,  of  course,  of  King  Hakon  and  Earl  Skuli).  Of 
his  encomia  on  the  first  three  lords  no  vestige  is  now  preserved, 
nor  of  the  poem  '  Andvaka '  he  addressed  to  the  wife  of  Hakon 
Galinn,  the  Lady  Christina.  Occasional  verses  by  him  still  sur- 
viving, and  two  slight  fragments  from  longer  poems  are  collected 
by  Professors  Mobius  l  and  Finnur  J6nsson.2 

HEIMSKRINGLA,  'The  Round  World,'  is  the  title  under 
which  Snorri's  great  history  of  the  Scandinavian  races,  the  Nor- 
wegian in  particular,  has  passed  since  about  1682.  The  most 
genuine  text  was  preserved  in  a  MS.  to  which  in  modern  times 
were  given  the  names  KRINGLA  (Round),  and  '  Codex  Aca- 
demicus  primus'  (being  the  property  of  the  University  of  Copen- 
hagen), or  '  Heimskringla.'  On  internal  evidence  it  can  be 
proved  that  this  MS.  was  written  only  some  twenty  years  after 
the  death  of  the  author,  between  1258  and  1263.3  To  Copen- 
hagen this  MS.  had  come  from  Norway  at  the  end  of  the  seven- 
teenth century,  and  there  it  perished  in  the  great  fire  of  Copen- 
hagen, 1728.  Before  that  time,  however,  two  transcripts  had 
been  made  of  it.  The  Icelandic  calligraphist,  Helgi  Olafson, 
had  copied  the  MS.  on  quarto  foldings,  from  the  beginning  down 
to  the  end  of  the  saga  of  Harald  Hairfair,  while  the  well-known 
scribe,  Jon  Eggertsson,  had  finished  the  rest  by  January  27th, 
1682,  in  Copenhagen.  The  first  scribe  gave  his  copy  the  title 
of  '  Heimskringla.'  His  and  Eggertsson's  transcripts  served  as 
printer's  copy  for  the  editio  princeps  by  the  Swede,  Johan  Pering- 
skiold,  entitled  '  Heims  Kringla,  eller  Snorri  Sturlusons  Nord- 
landske  Konunga  Sagor,'  Stockholmiae,  1697.  This  transcript 
is  still  preserved  in  No.  18  fol.  among  Icel.  MSS.  in  the  Royal 
Library  at  Stockholm.4  The  other  copy  was  taken  by  the  in- 
defatigable and  careful  scribe,  Asgeir  J6nsson,  and  is  now  pre- 
served in  the  Arnamagngean  Library  at  Copenhagen  in  three 
folio  vols.  Nos.  35,  36,  63.  Strange  to  say,  Prof.  Finn.  J6nsson's 
edition  of  Heimskringla,  1 893-1 901,  is  the  first  which  recognizes 

1  Hattatal  Sn.  Sturl.,  Halle,  1879,  i.  27-30. 

2  Snorri  Sturluson  Edda,  K^benhavn,  1900,  pp.  212-213. 

3  Gustav  Storm,  Snorri  Sturlassons  Historieskrivning,  206.  Prof.  Storm 
in  this  work,  and  Prof.  Finnur  Jonsson  in  his  preface  to  Heimskringla,  give 
the  best  accounts  of  the  MSS.  of  Snorri's  work. 

1  Storm,  I.e.  F.  Jonsson,  Heimskr.  I.  x-xiii. 


Introductory  lxxv 

the  exclusive  right  of  this  MS.  to  represent  Snorri's  own  text.1 
Unger's  edition,  1868,  from  which  our  translation  was  made,  is 
based  on  '  Kringla,'  but  has  added  from  other  MSS.  certain 
chapters  to  the  sagas  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  Magnus  Barefoot  and 
Sigurd  Jerusalemfarer. 

In  the  old  MSS.  the  title  of  the  work  varies  between  '  Noregs 
Konunga  sogur,'  '  Konungasogur,'  and  '  Konungabok '  (Codex 
Frisianus). 

Other  MSS.  containing  Snorri's  text,  but  added  to  and  inter- 
polated, are: 

JOFRASKINNA  (Kings'  skin),  so  called  by  Torfseus  because 
the  MS.  was  illuminated  by  figures  of  Olaf  the  Holy  and  his 
son  Magnus  the  Good.  The  original  MS.  came  into  the  posses- 
sion of  the  University  Library  of  Copenhagen  in  1655,  but 
perished  in  the  fire,  1728.  Fortunately,  a  copy  of  it  had  been 
taken  by  the  head  master  of  Oslo  Grammar  School,  Jens  Nielson, 
1567,  which  is  now  in  the  Arnamagnaean  Library,  No.  37  folio; 
and  another  copy  by  Asgeir  Jonsson  in  1698.2 

GULLINSKINNA(Goldenskin),  defective,  contained  Snorri's 
work  only  from  Chapter  103  in  Harald  Hardredy's  saga  to  the 
end,  continuing  with  a  fragment  of  Sverrir's  saga,  and  the  greater 
part  of  Sturla  Thordson's  Hakonar  saga.  As  this  latter  saga 
was  composed  in  1265,  Gullinskinna  must  date  from  a  time 
posterior  to  that  limit,  Storm  guesses  at  12 70-1 280. 3  The  MS. 
met  the  same  fate,  1728,  as  the  preceding  ones,  but  is  preserved 
in  a  paper  copy  taken  by  Asgeir  Jonsson,  which  is  now  No.  42 
fol.  in  the  Arnamagnaean  library. 

EIRSPENNILL  (Brazenclasp),  defective,  contains  Heims- 
kringla  from  ch.  252  of  the  Saga  of  Olaf  the  Holy  to  the  end, 
and  besides  the  sagas  of  Sverrir  and  his  successors  till  1263, 
in  abbreviated  form.  These  abbreviated  sagas  are  published  by 
Unger,  Christiana,  1873.  The  MS.  is  now  in  the  Arnamagn. 
collection,  No.  47  fol.  and  is  supposed,  by  Dr.  Kalund,  to  date 
from  the  first  part  of  the  fourteenth  century,  by  Gustav  Storm, 
from  c.  1280/ 

CODEX  FRISIANUS,  so  called  from  having  once  belonged 

1  F.  Jonsson,  I.e.,  vi,  cf.  ii-iv,  xlviii. 

2  Storm,  207-208,  F.  Jonsson,  I.e.,  xxiv-xxv. 

3  Storm,  209,  cf.  F.  Jonsson,  I.e.,  xxxii. 

4  Ibid.,  209-210,  F.  Jonsson,  I.e.,  xxxii. 


lxxvi  Introductory 

to  a  Danish  nobleman  Otto  Friis  of  Astrup  (ob.  1699),  but 
more  properly  named,  according  to  its  heading:  'Konungab6k  ' 
is  a  MS.  of  Heimskringla  from  about  1300,  preserved  in  the 
Arnamagnsean  library  under  No.  45  fol.  It  omits  01.  Holy's  saga, 
but  contains,  at  the  end,  the  saga  of  King  Hakon  Hakonson. 
From  the  saga  of  Harald  Hardredy,  the  Heimskringla  text  is 
largely  fused  with  that  of  Morkinskinna,  so  that  that  portion  of 
the  MS.  cannot  properly  be  regarded  as  at  all  a  text  of  Heims- 
kringla. The  whole  MS.  was  edited  by  Unger,  Christiania, 
1871.1 

HULDA,  a  fourteenth  century  MS.,  A.  M.  66  fob,  beginning 
in  the  sixteenth  chapter  of  the  saga  of  Magnus  the  Good,  and 

HROKKINSKINNA  (Shrunkenskin),  a  fifteenth  century 
codex,  No.  1010  fol.,  in  the  'Old  Collection'  of  the  'Royal 
Library'  of  Copenhagen,  beginning  with  the  saga  of  Magnus 
the  Good,  are  really  in  no  other  sense  Heimskringla  texts  than 
that  they  use  the  text  as  a  source  with  which  they  mix  stuff 
from  other  sources  and  thus  produce  a  new  variation  of  history 
on  the  period  they  cover.2 

This  brief  review  of  Heimskringla  texts  will  presumably  not 
be  unwelcome  to  readers  of  the  Saga  Library,  though  it  may  be 
regarded  as  not  very  intimately  connected  with  Snorri  in  his 
capacity  of  author  of  Heimskringla. 

Above  we  have  indicated  (pp.  lvii-lxv)  the  works  by  known 
authors  that  served  Snorri  as  sources  for  this  great  work  of  his. 
We  shall  now,  as  briefly  as  possible,  notice  the  anonymous 
works  which  served  him  in  the  same  manner. 

HISTORIA  NORVEGIAE  is  the  name  of  a  Latin  chronicle 
dating  from  the  latter  end  of  the  twelfth  (Storm)  or  the  begin- 
ning of  the  thirteenth  century,  which  deals  with  the  history  of 
Norway  under  her  early  kings  down  to  the  introduction  of 
Christianity.  It  depends  partly  on  older  written  records,  partly  on 
tradition.  We  mention  it  here  because  Professor  Gustav  Storm 
has  shown  that  between  this  chronicle  and  the  Yngling  saga  in 
Heimskringla  there  are  such  points  of  affinity  as  in  his  opinion 
to  warrant  the  conclusion  that  Snorri  has  borrowed  from  this 
source  the  information  that  goes  beyond  the  contents  of  Thio- 
dolf's  verses  (the  Ynglingatal).3    This  becomes  doubtful  in  face 

1  Storm,  I.e.,  210,  F.  Jonsson,  I.e.,  xxi-xxiv.  2  Storm,  I.e.,  69-71. 

3  Storm,  I.e.,  22-25. 


Introductory  lxxvii 

of  Snorri's  own  words  in  the  '  Prologus  ':  'After  Thiodolf's  tale 
are  the  lives  of  the  Ynglings  first  written,  and  matters  added 
thereto  from  the  tales  of  men  of  lore,'  as  it  is  uncertain  whether 
by  tales,  sogn  in  the  second  instance,  he  means  oral  tradition 
or  written  record.   It  may  even  refer  to  information  he  drew  from 

SKIOLDUNGASAGA  (Story  of  the  Skioldungs,  or  early 
rulers  of  Denmark).  This  is  a  saga  which  but  for  small  frag- 
ments (A.  M.  i,  e,  fl,  i,1  and  20,  6,  i,  in  folio)  is  now  lost,  but 
existed  in  Iceland  even  in  the  days  of  Arngrim  Jdnsson  the 
Learned  (kerSi)  (1568- 1648),  who  drew  upon  it  for  a  work  which 
he  called  'Suplementum  historiae  Norvegicae,'2  at  least  for  that 
part  of  it  which  treated  of  the  mythic  and  legendary  kings  of 
Denmark. — In  his  account  of  the  great  battle  on  the  ice  of 
Lake  Vener  between  King  Adils  of  Sweden  and  Ali  the  Up- 
lander,3  Snorri  says:  'Concerning  this  battle  is  much  told  in 
the  Story  of  the  Skioldungs  and  also  how  Rolf  Kraki  came  to 
Upsala,'  etc.4  This  saga  therefore  has  been  one  of  his  sources 
at  least  for  the  Ynglinga  saga,  but  to  what  further  extent  cannot 
be  stated  with  certainty.  Both  Storm  and  Jonsson  agree  that 
the  episodes  of  Hugleik,  Starkad  and  Haki,  as  well  as  the 
account  of  Ingiald  Evilheart  and  Ivar  Widefathom  owe  their 
origin  to  Skioldunga  saga.°  That  the  story  of  Rolf  Kraki,  both 
here  and  in  Snorri's  Edda,  must  come  from  the  same  source  is 
pretty  well  proved  by  Snorri's  own  words  cited  above.  The  story 
of  Sigurd  Hart  Snorri  tells  evidently  on  the  authority  of  a  written 
record:  'So  tells  the  tale,'  'and  long  is  the  tale  of  him,'  which 
most  likely  was  the  Skioldunga  saga.u  On  this  source  of  Snorri's 
work  I  refer  for  further  information  to  Storm7  and  F.  Jonsson.8 

AGRIP  af  Noregs  Konunga  sogum,  epitome  of  the  sagas  of 
the  kings  of  Norway  is  a  work  preserved  only  in  one  MS., 
A.M.  325,  ii.  40,  dating  from  the  first  half  of  the  thirteenth 

1  Edited  as  '  Sogubrot '  in  Fornaldarsogur  NoriSrlanda,  i.  p.  363-388. 

2  Edited  by  Axel  Olrik  in  Aarb^ger  for  nordisk  Oldkyndighed  og 
Historie,  1894. 

3  Also  told  of  in  Snorri's  Edda,  Jonsson's  ed.,  108. 

4  Story  of  the  Ynglings,  Heimskringla,  i,  50. 

5  Ibid.,  i,  37-38.  39-40,  55-64. 

';  Story  of  Ilalfdan  the  Black,  Heimskringla,  i,  81. 

7   Storm,  I.e. ,  66-67,  109-111. 

*  Den  oldnord.  og  oldisl.  litteraturs  historie,  ii.  2,  665-6. 


lxxviii  Introductory 

century,  defective  in  capite  et  calce.  It  was  first  edited  by  Finn 
Magnusson  in  Fornmanna  Sogur,  x,  376-421,  1835, 1  and  diplo- 
matically by  Verner  Dahlerup,  Kobenhavn,  1880.  This  epitome, 
as  we  have  it  now,  begins  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  Saga  of 
Halfdan  the  Black,  and  goes  down  to  the  account  of  the  sons 
of  Harald  Gilli,  thus,  in  a  way,  covering  the  whole  historical 
period  of  Heimskringla.  The  MS.  is  of  Icelandic  origin,  a  copy, 
according  to  Storm,  of  a  Norse  original ;  the  author,  according 
to  Storm,  was  a  Norwegian ;  according  to  Finnur  Jdnsson,  in- 
dubitably an  Icelander.  In  that  case  he  must  have  been  a 
resident  in  Norway  for  a  long  time,  for  his  work  shows  clearly 
that  he  was  particularly  conversant  with  local  Norwegian  tra- 
ditions, specially  such  as  were  current  in  Thrandheim.  For 
every  saga  contained  in  Heimskringla  from  Halfdan  the  Black 
down  to  Harald  Gilli's  sons,  Snorri  has  made  use  of  this  source 
of  information.2 

MORKINSKINNA  (Rottenskin),  a  vellum  thus  called  by 
Torfseus  on  account  of  its  decayed  state,  is  now  preserved 
in  the  '  Old  Collection '  of  the  Royal  Library  of  Copenhagen, 
No.  1009  fol.;  it  dates  from  the  close  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, and  contains  sagas  of  the  kings  of  Norway  from  the  ac- 
cession of  Magnus  the  Good,  1035,  to  the  death  of  Eystein 
Haraldson,  1157.3  This  work  depends  for  its  contents  upon 
older  records,  such  as  Agrip  and  Eric  Oddson's  Hryggjarstykki, 
besides  a  rich  store  of  verses,  the  tenor,  however,  of  which  the 
author  has  not  always  been  able  to  master.  This  is  the  first  of 
the  historical  works  relating  to  Norway  which  interlards  the  text 
with  anecdotal  matter  mostly  of  a  biographical  character,  the 
insertions  sometimes  going  to  a  length  which  interrupts  the 
historical  nexus  to  a  tantalizing  degree.  This  is  one  of  the 
sources  on  which  Snorri  has  drawn  for  all  the  sagas  of  Heims- 
kringla, from  that  of  Magnus  the  Good  to  that  of  Ingi  Haraldson 
and  his  brethren.4 

JARLASOGUR  (Earl-tales5),  or  the  sagas  of  the  Earls  of 

1  Translated  into  Latin  by  Egilsson  in  Scripta  historia  Islandorum,  x. 
350-392. 

-  See  Storm,  I.e.,  25-28;  Finnur  Tonsson,  Litt.  hist.,  ii.  2,  618-625. 

3  Edited  by  C.  R.  Unger,  Christiania,  1867. 

4  Storm,  I.e.,  21-31 ;  Finnur  Jonsson,  Litt.  hist.,  625-630. 

5  Olaf  the  Holy's  saga,  Heimskringla,  ii.  188. 


Introductory  lxxix 

Orkney,  commonly  known  as  Orkneyinga  saga,  is  yet  a  work 
which  has  served  Snorri  with  historical  material.  He  has  drawn 
on  it  for  the  sagas  of  Harald  Hairfair,  Hakon  the  Good,  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  largely  for  that  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  less  for  Harald 
Hardredy,  Magnus  Barefoot,  Harald  Gilli  and  Magnus  Erling- 
son.  About  the  authorship  of  the  work  nothing  is  known  beyond 
the  obvious  fact  that  it  must  have  been  put  together  before 
Snorri  began  writing  Heimskringla.  It  covers  the  whole  period 
dealt  with  in  Heimskringla,  from  Harald  Hairfair  to  the  year 
1 158,  the  death  of  Earl  Rognvald  Kali.  It  is  of  Icelandic 
origin,  and  is  best  edited  by  Vigfusson.1 

F^EREYINGA  SAGA,  which  now  is  found  split  up  into 
chronologically  suitable  sections  in  the  Flatey  book,  but  must, 
of  course,  have  existed  as  a  whole  saga  in  Snorri's  time,  has 
been  utilized  by  him  for  illustrating  the  uneven  struggle  that 
went  on  between  K.  Olaf  the  Holy  and  the  Faro  people  in 
respect  of  the  subjection  of  the  islands  to  the  Norwegian  crown, 
1024-1026.    It  was  edited  by  C.  C.  Rafn,  Kjobenhavn,  1832. 2 

FAGRSKINNA  (Fairskin)  is  a  name  by  loose  usage  given 
to  a  work  on  the  history  of  Norway,  two  recensions  of  which 
are  now  preserved  in  paper  transcripts,  A.M.  51  fol.  302,  40 
(B)  and  52  fol.  301  and  303,  40  (A.);  to  the  second  of  the  two 
recensions  (A)  Torfgeus  applied  this  title  on  account  of  its  fine 
binding;  but  the  real  title  of  the  work  was  '  N6regs  Konunga  tal' 
(B),  or  perhaps  rather  ^Ettartal  Noregs  Konunga  (A).  The  B  re- 
cension, of  which  one  vellum  leaf  still  remains,  is  of  the  thirteenth 
century,  the  A  one  of  the  fourteenth.3  The  work  has  covered 
the  time  from  Halfdan  the  Black  to  the  reign  of  Magnus  Erling- 
son,  the  same  period  as  the  historical  Sagas  of  Heimskringla. 
There  is  much  divergence  of  opinion  as  to  whether  this  work 
has  been  a  source  for  Heimskringla  or  the  reverse.  Storm  came 
to  the  conclusion  that  the  former  was  the  case;4  while  Maurer 
held  that  Fagrskinna  borrowed  from  Heimskringla,  at  least  from 

1  Storm,  I.e.,  61-64— Icelandic  Sagas  (Rolls  Series),  i.  1887— Finnur 
Jonsson,  Litt.  hist.,  ii.  2,  653-659. 

2  Cf.  Storm,  I.e.,  64-65,  Finnur  Jonsson,  Litt.  hist.,  ii.  649-653. 

3  The  work  has  been  twice  edited:  1,  on  the  basis  of  A  by  Munch  and 
Unger,  Christiania,  1847.  2>  on  tne  basis  of  B  by  Finnur  Jonsson,  K^ben- 
havn,  1902-1903. 

1  Storm,  I.e. ,  43-45. 


lxxx  Introductory 

the  saga  of  Har.  Hardredy  and  onward.  Finnur  J6nsson  is  of 
opinion  that  Fagrskinna  could  not  have  been  written  much 
before  1240,1  and  there  are  certain  chronological  facts  which 
point  in  that  direction.  Knut,  son  of  Hakon,  is  called  '  Earl,' 
which  he  was  created  1 239-1 240;  Skuli  is  called  a  Duke,  which 
title  was  conferred  on  him  1237.  Valdimar,  Valdimar's  son, 
K.  of  Denmark,  is  mentioned  in  this  way:  'The  children  of 
K.  Valdimar  and  Sufha  were  .  .  .  King  Valdimar,'  which,  in 
genealogical  language,  generally  means  that  children  so  referred 
to  were  dead  at  the  time  they  were  thus  entered  in  a  genealogy. 
This  King  Valdimar  died  in  1241,  the  same  year  as  Snorri. 
The  chronological  evidence  must  therefore  be  regarded  as  clearly 
against  the  theory  of  Professor  Storm.  The  close  affinity  between 
the  texts  of  Heimskr.  and  Fagrsk.  must  consequently  be  ac- 
counted for  by  the  latter  being  the  borrower,  or  being  independent 
of  Heimskringla  and  depending  on  a  common  source.2  One  point 
we  must  regard  as  of  striking  significance.  If  Snorri,  with  his 
strong  sense  of  the  paramount  importance  of  contemporaneous 
poems,  made  use  of  Fagrskinna,  how  could  he  have  omitted 
from  his  text  the  magnificent  Eiriksmal,  especially  when  he  was 
so  badly  off  for  poetical  evidence  for  Eric  Bloodaxe's  exploits, 
and,  moreover,  honoured  his  brother  Hakon  with  the  whole  of 
Eyvind's  Hakonarmal,  admittedly  an  imitation  of  Eiriksmal? 

To  the  foregoing  sources  may  still  be  added  the  JOMS- 
VIKINGA  SAGA,  which  originally  took  shape  from  the  various 
narratives  brought  to  Iceland  by  Icelanders  who  had  taken  part 
in  the  fight  of  Hiorungwick.  Snorri  has  made  use  of  this  saga 
only  for  Earl  Hakon's  history.3 

EGILSSAGA,  commonly  called  EGLA  has,  till  but  very  lately, 
been  counted  among  the  sources  of  Heimskringla.  Now  opinion 
in  this  respect  has  undergone  a  decided  change.  It  was  Dr. 
Vigfusson  who  first  suggested  the  idea  that  this  saga  might  be 
due  to  the  pen  of  Snorri :  '  The  style  is  bold  and  vigorous,  well 
suiting  the  subject,  and  resembling  in  a  marked  degree  that 
of  Snorri,  who  may  well  have  felt  an  interest  in  the  hero  in 
whose  home,  Borg,  he  himself  had  dwelt,  wielding  the  chieftain- 

1  Ueber  die  Ausdrucke  altnordische  .  .  .  Sprache,  etc.,  Miinchen,  1867, 
40,  Anm.  29. 

2  Litt.  hist.,  ii.  2,  630-639. 
"  Cf.  Storm,  I.e.,  67-68;  Litt.  hist.,  ii.  2,  659-665. 


3 


Introductory  lxxxi 

ship  of  the  district  as  Egil's  political  descendant."  Since  Vig- 
fusson  wrote  scholars  have  been  half  inclined  to  his  idea  (A. 
Gjessing,  Finnur  Jonsson);  but  it  was  reserved  for  the  profound 
scholarship  of  Dr.  Bjorn  M.  Olsen  to  find  what  probably  will 
remain  a  lasting  solution  of  the  question.2  He  comes  to  the 
conclusion  that  Snorri  himself  is  the  author  of  Egilssaga.  Egils- 
saga,  he  shows,  on  comparison  with  the  texts  of  Landnama, 
gives  to  Skalla-Grim  wider  lands  and  lordship  than,  on  critical 
examination  the  Landnama,  in  its  oldest  form,  warrants.  In  the 
same  manner  Egilssaga  deals  with  the  lordship  of  Tongue-Odd 
as  compared  with  Landnama.  Ot  both  these  chiefs  Snorri  was 
the  '  political  descendant,'  having  acquired  the  former's  and  his 
descendants'  manorial  seat,  Borg,  by  marriage,  and  the  latter's 
godord  by  the  purchase  of  Reykholt.  Historically  enhancing  the 
importance  of  the  chieftainship  of  these  his  predecessors  could 
have  interested  no  one  at  the  time  that  Egilssaga  was  written, 
Snorri's  own  life-time,  more  than  Snorri  himself.  Style,  interest 
for  antiquarian  subjects,  method  of  using  verses  in  support  of 
historical  statements,  fondness  for  the  members  of  the  family  of 
the  Mere-men,  especially  those  from  whom  Snorri  traced  his 
descent,  striking  parallels  between  the  texts  of  Eg.  s.  and 
Heimskr.,  exactness  of  topographical  knowledge  of  Borgfirth 
and  the  countrysides  round  Oddi,  as  well  as  of  the  geography 
of  Norway,  etc. — all  these  matters,  Dr.  Olsen  shows  in  detail, 
combine  strongly  in  support  of  Snorri's  authorship  of  Egla.  A 
telling  positive  proof,  too,  he  adduces  from  the  Saga  of  Gunn- 
laug  the  Wormtongue;  So  say  'frd^ir'  (learned  men)  that  many 
in  the  kin  of  the  Meremen  have  been  the  goodliest  of  men,  etc. 
The  whole  passage  is  borrowed  from  Egilssaga  (Ch.  87,  p.  321, 
F.  J6nsson's  ed.).  An  exactly  analogous  case  is  found  in  Land- 
nama (Sturla's  recension,  F.  J6nsson's  ed.,  ch.  90) :  '  so  say 
"fr6^ir"  men  that  this  summer  xxv  ships  went  to  Greenland,' 
which  in  Hauk's  book  and  Melabok  texts,  Landn.,  ch.  78,  reads: 
'  So  says  Ari  Thorgilsson  (hinn  fr6^5i)  etc'  The  author  of  Egil's 
saga,  then,  was  called  'hinn  frd^i';  so  even  was  Snorri  called. 
— Henceforward  the  Egilssaga  will  cease  to  be  counted  among 
outside  sources  supplying  Heimskringla  with  historical  material. 

1  Sturl.,  Prolegomena,  xlviii. 

a  In  a  contribution  to  Aarb0ger  for  nordisk  Oldkyndighed  1904,  pp.  167- 
247. 

VI.  / 


lxxxii  Introductory 

It  is  necessary  to  add  here  some  few  remarks  on  the  peculiar 
position  occupied  by  the  Saga  of  Olaf  the  Holy  (O.  H.)  alone 
among  all  the  sagas  of  Heimskringla.  From  the  manner  in 
which  certain  events,  already  dealt  with  in  the  Sagas  of  Hairfair, 
Hakon  the  Good,  and  Tryggvison,  are  again  treated  in  O.  H., 
it  seems  to  us  that  the  conclusion  is  obvious  that  O.  H.  was 
written  down  before  the  historical  sagas  that  precede  it. 

In  Hairfair's  Saga  we  have  the  account  of  Earl  Turf-Einar's 
dealings  with  Hakon  Highleg  and  of  Hairfair's  treatment,  in 
consequence,  of  the  Earl  and  the  Orkney  people  (i.  122-123, 
125-127).  In  O.  H.  (ii,  168)  we  have  the  same  events  rehearsed 
more  briefly,  but  without  any  saga  cross-reference  which  in  such 
a  case  is  commonly  employed,  such  as:  'as  is  written  before,' 
or  the  like. 

In  Hakon  the  Good's  Saga  (i.  152)  we  have  the  story  told 
how  Eric  Bloodaxe  with  wife  and  children  fled  to  Orkney  before 
Hakon.  The  same  event  is  put  on  record  in  O.  H.  (ii.  169)  but 
without  any  allusion  whatever  to  a  previous  mention  of  it. 

In  Olaf  Tryggvison's  Saga  (i.  241)  and  in  O.  H.  (ii.  169),  the 
second  flight  of  Gunnhild  and  her  family  to  the  Orkneys  is  told 
of,  but  without  any  hint  in  the  latter  record  to  a  previous  men- 
tion thereof. 

Again  in  Tryggvison's  Saga  there  is  (i.  290-291)  a  lengthy 
account  of  his  call  at  the  Orkneys  on  his  way  to  Norway  from 
the  west,  and  of  his  enforcement  of  Christinity  on  Earl  Sigurd 
Hlodvirsson  and  his  people.  This  account  is  derived  from  a 
source  which  has  been  identical  with  that  vellum  of  the  Orkney 
saga  which  Vigfiisson  calls  A.,1  which  was  rendered  into  Danish 
about  1570  by  a  Norweigan  whose  translation  still  survives  in 
a  transcript  from  16 15.  The  passage  here  in  question  will  be 
found  in  Vigfiisson's  re-translation  into  Icelandic  of  the  Danish 
text  in  his  edition  of  Orkneyinga  saga,  ch.  12  (p.  14).  This 
same  matter  is  put  on  record  in  O.  H.  (ii.  i6912.23),  not  only 
without  any  reference  to  its  having  been  recorded  already,  but 
from  a  source  different  from  the  one  already  described.  The 
two  disagree  in  certain  details.  If  the  Sagas  of  O.  T.  and  O.  H. 
were  written  consecutively,  surely  Snorri  would  have  drawn  in- 
formation about  one  and  the  same  event  from  one  and  the  same 

1  A  very  fragmentary  transcript  by  Asgeir  Jonsson,  A.  M.  332  40,  is  the 
only  remaining  evidence  of  a  former  existence  of  this  vellum. 


Introductory  lxxxiii 

source  in  both  sagas,  for  the  sake  of  self-consistency,  unless  he 
saw  reason,  on  critical  grounds,  for  modifying  or  altering  in  the 
second  saga  what,  on  insufficient  knowledge,  he  had  put  down 
in  the  first.  In  this  case  the  statement  of  the  preceding  saga 
shows  ieself  to  be  an  expression  of  a  fuller,  more  accurate 
knowledge  than  that  of  the  succeeding,  which  therefore  presum- 
ably was  the  first  written  down. 

In  O.  Tryggvison's  Saga  (i.  335ls.15),  Thorarinn  Nefiulfson 
comes  into  the  story  as  if  he  had  been  mentioned  before.  And 
in  O.  H.  (ii.  133)  he  is  introduced  to  the  reader  with  the  full 
saga  ceremonial  adopted  when  a  new  person  makes  his  first 
appearance :  '  There  was  a  man  named  Thorarinn  son  of  Nefiolf, 
etc.,'  with  no  hint  to  the  fact  that  he  had  been  brought  on  the 
stage  before. 

A  telling  case  is  that  of  Ketil  Iamti,  whose  tale  is  told  in  the 
Saga  of  Hakon  the  Good  (H.  G.)  and  O.  H. 

H.  G.  (i.  i6219.— ).  (O.  H.  (ii.  2763.—). 

After  describing  Eystein  the  '  Ketil  Iamti  hight  a  man, 

Evil-minded's  war  in,  and  ig-  the   son    of  Earl    Onund    of 

nominious   treatment   of   the  Spareby,  in  Thrandheim.    He 

people  of,  Thrandheim,  setting  had  fled  before  King  Eystein 

up  his  dog  Saur  for  their  king,  the  Evilminded  east  over  the 

the  story  goes  on:  Keel.    He  cleared  the  woods 

'  Ketil    Iamti,    the   son    of  and  built  there,  whereas  it  is 

Earl  Onund  of  the  Spar-biders,  now  hight  Iamtland.   Eastway 

went  east  away  over  the  Keel,  thither  fled  also  crowds  of  folk 

and  a  great  company  of  men  from  Thrandheim  before  that 

with  him,  who  had  their  house-  unpeace;    for    King    Eystein 

holds  with  them.  They  cleared  made    the   Thrandheim    folk 

the  woods,  and  peopled  great  yield  him  scat  and  set  up  for  a 

countrysides   there,   and  that  king  there  his  own  hound  hight 

was  called  sithence  Iamtland.'  Saur.' 

In  H.  G.  Ketil  comes  in  as  if  he  had  been  mentioned  before ; 
while  in  regular  saga  fashion  he  is  in  O.  H.  brought  on  the  stage 
as  appearing  there  for  the  first  time,  with  no  hint  whatever  to 
the  fact  that  the  story  had  already  been  told  in  H.  G.  It  seems 
difficult  to  account  for  this  except  on  the  supposition  that  O.  H. 
was  written  before  H.  G. 


lxxxiv 


Introductory 


The  most  striking  evidence  in  support  of  our  theory  is  afforded 
by  the  story  of  Harek  of  Thiotta  in  Olaf  Tryggvison's  Saga 
(O.  T.)  as  compared  with  that  presented  by  O.H. 

O.  T.  O.  H. 


(i-  3°9i9-— ) '  KinS  01af  •  •  • 
stood  north  along   the  land, 

being  minded  for  Halogaland 
to  christen  folk  there.  But 
when  he  came  north  to  Bear- 
eres,  then  heard  he  of  Haloga- 
land that  they  had  an  host  out 
there  and  were  minded  to  de- 
fend the  land  against  the  king. 
And  there  were  captains  of  that 
host  Harek  of  Thiotta  .  .  .' 
(324-329)  A  long  account  of 
the  kidnapping  of  Harek  at 
Tryggvison's  behest;  how  he 
enters  into  Olaf's  service  and 
how  they  become  the  best  of 
friends. 

Here  it  is  perfectly  evident  that  in  O.  T.  Harek  comes  in  as 
a  person  already  properly  introduced  to  the  reader.  That  intro- 
duction took  place  when  the  author  wrote  O.  H.,  the  composi- 
tion of  which,  therefore,  must  precede  in  time  that  of  O.  T. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  following  passages  from  O.  H.  and 
the  Saga  of  Magnus  the  Good  (M.  G.),  would  seem  to  yield  an 
additional  proof  of  the  correctness  of  the  theory  here  advanced : 


(ii.  i8c)20. — )  'Now  there  was 
a  man  named  Harek,  son  of 
Eyvind  Skaldspiller,  who  dwelt 
in  the  island  of  Thiotta,  which 
lies  in  Halogaland.'  Then  the 
story  goes  on  describing  his 
land-grabbing  in  the  island 
(18904.30),  his  wisdom  and 
energy  (18930-190^,  his  hon- 
ours and  high  descent — age — 
preferments  —  friendly  rela- 
tions with  Olaf  the  Holy  (igor 


O.  H.  (ii.  267). 

'  He  (Knut  the  Mighty)  set 
up  behind  him  in  Denmark 
Hordaknut  his  son,  and  with 
him  Wolf  the  Earl,  the  son  of 
Thorgils  Sprakalegg.  Wolf  was 
wedded  to  Astrid,the  daughter 
of  King  Svein  and  sister  of 
King  Knut,  and  their  son  was 
that  Svein  who  was  sithence 
King  in  Denmark.' 


M.  G.  (hi.  29). 

'  A  man  is  named  Svein,  the 
son  of  Earl  Wolf,  the  son  of 
Thorgils  Sprakalegg.  The 
mother  of  Svein  was  Astrid, 
the  daughter  of  King  Svein 
Twibeard.  She  was  the  sister 
of  Knut  the  Rich,  etc' 


Introductory  lxxxv 

If  M.  G.  was  written  straightway  on  the  conclusion  of  O.  H., 
it  does  not  seem  in  Snorri's  style  to  repeat  himself  as  he  does 
here,  introducing  Svein  as  if  he  had  never  been  mentioned 
before,  which,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  he  had  been  not  only  in  the 
passage  quoted,  but  also  as  intercessor  for  his  father  with  King 
Knut  (ii.  319).  The  natural  explanation  seems  to  be  that  when 
the  passage  in  M.  G.  was  penned,  the  author  had  forgotten,  for 
the  moment,  what  he  had  written  in  O.  H.,  which  was  natural 
if  a  considerable  period  divided  the  composition  of  the  two 
sagas,  but  scarcely  explainable  if  M.  G.  was  composed  con- 
secutively on  O.  H. 

On  the  whole  the  conclusion  seems  warrantable,  that  the 
Saga  of  Olaf  the  Holy  was  the  first  penned  instalment  to 
Heimskringla.  Its  relation  to  the  larger  Olaf's  Saga '  is  far  too 
wide  a  subject  to  be  taken  up  to  discussion  here.  Our  own 
opinion  is  that  this  larger  Olaf's  Saga  is  Snorri's  first  edition, 
and  that  it  was  incorporated  in  Heimskringla  revised  and  shorn 
of  matters  which  were  dealt  with  in  the  other  sagas  of  that 
collection.  But,  even  if  it  were  an  expanded  edition  of  O.  H. 
in  Heimskringla,  it  would  not  affect  the  theory  suggested 
above. 

When  Snorri  sets  about  writing  the  history  of  Norway,  it 
presents  to  his  mind  the  aspect  of  two  great  tableaux :  the  first, 
filled  in  with  the  progeny  of  Halfdan  the  Black  down  to  Sigurd 
Jerusalemfarer,  1130;  the  second  made  up  of  that  of  Harald 
Gilli  down  to  Eystein  Maiden,  1 1 77.  These  tableaux  are  fore- 
shadowed in  dreams:  the  first,  in  dreams  dreamt  by  Queen 
Ragnhild  and  her  husband,  Halfdan  the  Black;  hers  indicating 
the  greatness  of  her  descendants  in  general;  his  pointing  in 
particular  to  Olaf  the  Holy  as  the  most  glorious  scion  of  the 
stock.  The  second  tableau  is  unfolded  in  a  dream  of  Sigurd 
Jerusalemfarer's:  darkness  scudding  up  from  the  main  Norway- 
ward  showing,  on  nearer  approach,  a  tree,  the  roots  of  which 
wade  through  the  deep,  while  the  branches  overshadow  it, 
breaking,  on  landing,  into  pieces  which  drift  into  every  creek 
along  the  shore,  '  most  small,  but  some  bigger.'  Snorri's  busi- 
ness is  pragmatically  to  unravel  the  relations  in  which  the 
characters  that  fill  both  tableaux  stand  severally  to  each  other. 

1  Edited  by  Munch  and  Unger,  Christiania,  1853. 


lxxxvi  Introductory 

The  materials  at  Snorri's  disposal  were:  oral  tradition;1 
written  genealogical  records; 2  old  songs  or  story  lays  such  as 
Thiodolf's  Tale  of  the  Ynglings  and  Eyvind's  Haloga  Tale;3 
poems  of  court  poets,  i.e.,  historic  songs,  which  people  knew 
by  heart  all  from  the  days  of  Hairfair  down  to  Snorri's  own 
time.  '  And  most  store,'  he  says,  '  we  set  by  that  which  is  said 
in  such  songs  as  were  sung  before  the  chiefs  themselves  or  the 
sons  of  them;  and  we  hold  all  that  for  true  which  is  found  in 
these  songs  concerning  their  wayfarings  and  their  battles.'4  Of 
the  written  prose  sources  he  drew  upon  he  only  mentions  Ari 
the  Learned's  'book,'  i.e.,  the  first  edition  of  '  Islendingab6k,' 
probably,  as  it  seems  to  us,  because  in  the  statements  of  that 
work  he  had  as  implicit  a  faith  as  in  the  other  sources  he  men- 
tions, and  found  reason  to  alter  nothing  therein,  while  the 
sources  he  does  not  mention  he  silently  criticises  throughout, 
rejecting  or  altering  them  according  as  his  critical  faculty 
dictated. 

Before  Snorri's  time  there  existed  only  biographies,  separate, 
disjointed  biographical  monographs,  on  Norwegian  kings, 
written  on  the  model  of  the  family  sagas  of  Iceland.  Snorri's 
was  a  more  ambitious  task.  Discerning  that  the  course  of  life 
is  determined  by  cause  and  effect,  and  that  in  the  lives  of  kings 
widely  ramified  interests,  national  and  dynastic,  come  into  play, 
he  conceived  a  new  idea  of  saga- writing :  the  seed  of  cause 
sown  in  the  preceding  must  yield  its  crop  of  effect  in  the  suc- 
ceeding reign.  This  the  writer  of  lives  of  kings  must  bear  in 
mind.  And  so  Snorri  addresses  himself  to  writing  the  first 
pragmatic  history  ever  penned  in  any  Teutonic  vernacular — the 
Heimskringla. 

In  illustration  of  what  we  have  now  said  we  may  begin  by 
drawing  attention  to  the  reigns  of  Hairfair  and  his  son  Eric 
Bloodaxe.  Harald  had  his  sons  fostered  away  from  home 
mostly  with  their  mothers  and  their  kindred.  They  knew,  there- 
fore, one  another  not  as  brothers  do  who  are  brought  up  at 

1  Preface,  i.  3  :  '  tales '  .  .  .  '  even  as  I  have  heard  men  of  lore  tell  the 
same  ' ;  matters  added  to  the  lives  of  the  Ynglings  by  Thiodolf  '  from  the 
tales  of  men  of  lore  ' ;  ibid. ,  4.    Cf.,  however,  p.  Ixxvii. 

2  Ibid. :  Telling  up  of  Forefathers  wherein  Kings  and  other  men  of  high 
degree  have  traced  their  kin. 

3  Ibid.,  3-4.  4  Ibid.,  4-5. 


Introductory  lxxxvii 

home.  What  they  knew  well,  and  what  their  mothers  and  other 
fostering  guardians  did  not  fail  to  impress  upon  them,  was  that 
they  were  heirs  to  the  great  conqueror's  power  and  possessions, 
each  one  considering  his  own  birthright  as  good  as  that  of  any 
of  his  brothers.  Most  of  them  inherited  the  father's  overween- 
ing ambition  and  physical  prowess,  and  with  irrepressible  reck- 
lessness broke  their  father's  laws  as  he  had  himself  in  youth 
ruthlessly  broken  the  constitutional  system  of  his  nation.  En- 
feebled by  age  he  must  pacify  the  unruly  crowd  and  divide  his 
realm  among  them.  This  caused  a  fatricidal  state  of  things, 
with  the  effect  that  Eric,  offending  his  brothers'  kindred  in  every 
direction,  loses  all  hold  on  the  loyalty  of  the  people  and  must 
seek  safety  in  exile,  when  his  youngest  brother  comes  forward 
to  claim  the  crown  that  Eric  knew  not  how  to  wear  with  pro- 
priety. 

Throughout  the  story  of  the  sons  of  Eric  we  can  see  that  the 
cause  of  their  misfortunes  is  their  mother  Gunnhild,  as  she  had 
been  indeed  to  a  large  extent  of  those  of  her  husband.  At 
length  she  finds  her  match  in  Earl  Hakon.  Through  her  insti- 
gation her  sons  had  murdered  his  father.  For  seven  years  he 
broods  over  his  revenge  and  effects  it  in  the  end.  That  was 
the  effect  of  Gunnhild's  state-craft. 

Olaf  Tryggvison  slaps  a  dowager  queen  in  the  face  with  his 
glove.  The  result  is  a  triple  alliance  against  him  and  his  fall  in 
the  battle  of  Svold.  His  saga  forms  the  introduction  to  that  of 
his  kinsman  and  namesake  Olaf  the  Holy,  who  becomes  Nor- 
way's national  saint  merely  by  the  accident  that  the  body  of 
Olaf  Tryggvison  was  never  found.  At  the  horrible  death  of 
Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir  Snorri  takes  the  opportunity  of  enunciating 
beforehand  the  text  of  both  sagas  in  this  way :  '  Most  evil  hap 
had  such  a  lord  in  his  death-day.  And  this  brought  it  most 
about  that  so  it  was,  that  the  day  was  come,  when  foredoomed 
was  blood-offering  and  the  men  of  blood-offerings  and  the  holy 
faith  come  in  their  stead  and  the  true  worship.'  On  this  text 
hinge  both  sagas  of  the  Olafs,  in  which  Snorri  unfolds  his 
highest  qualities  both  as  stylist  and  narrator.  Olaf  Tryggvison's 
is  the  proudest  figure  drawn  in  Heimskringla;  Olaf  Haraldson's 
the  most  carefully  and  sympathetically  worked  out.  One  feels 
that  Snorri  has  greater  admiration  for  Olaf  the  Holy  than  for 
any  other  character  he  depicts.    It  may  very  well  be  on  religious 


lxxxviii  Introductory 

grounds,  although  he  makes  no  great  parade  of  religious  senti- 
ments, the  passage  quoted  above  being  about  the  only  one  that 
can  be  pointed  out  in  that  sense.  Perhaps  Olaf  s  unswervingly 
evenhanded  justice  without  regard  of  person  was  after  all  what  the 
Icelandic  lawyer  and  speaker-at-law  admired  most  in  his  favourite 
hero.  In  his  personal  descriptions  Snorri  takes  care  to  let  the 
descendants  of  Hairfair  present  features  of  body  or  traits  of 
character  that  remind  of  the  ancestor — Magnus  the  Blind,  a 
drunkard  even  in  youth,  does  not  come  into  consideration. 
They  are  goodly  of  aspect,  martial,  energetic,  and  masterful, 
with,  as  a  rule,  great  capacity  for  government,  and  some  of  them 
for  legislation  and  reform.  Harald  Hardredy  adds  to  the  family 
traits  the  gift  of  poetry,  and  Olaf,  his  son,  a  strong  taste  for  art 
and  refinement.  He  patronizes  architecture,  reforms  the  ar- 
rangements of  the  hall,  introduces  luxurious  fashions  in  dress, 
and  takes  great  interest  in  fostering  sociability  by  means  of 
gilds  and  Scot-houses.  He  is  the  only  one  of  Hairfair's  suc- 
cessors who  on  principle  is  opposed  to  war,  and  favours  popular 
freedom :  '  Your  freedom  is  my  gladness  '  are  the  proud  words 
by  which  he  enunciates  the  principles  of  his  wise  government. 

When  the  Gillungs,  or  race  of  Harald  Gilli,  come  in,  there 
comes  also  a  change  over  Snorri's  personal  descriptions.  No 
more  do  we  find  him  alluding  to  kingly  traits  of  character,  nor 
even  to  any  striking  features  of  physical  goodliness.  With  the 
exception  of  the  cripple  Ingi,  for  whom  Snorri  entertains  sym- 
pathetic feelings,  these  Gillungs  are  mostly  unprincipled  rowdies 
and  unkingly  of  conduct,  with  the  result  that  as  kings  in  the 
land  they  are  a  signal  failure,  and  come  to  an  end  after  an  in- 
glorious run  of  seven  and  forty  years. 

All  students  of  Icelandic  unite  in  admiration  of  Snorri's 
style.  All  through  it  is  pervaded  by  an  air  of  aristocratic  dignity 
and  that  quietude  and  ease  which  result  from  supreme  mastery 
of  the  subject.  Yet  with  these  qualities  there  goes  a  classic 
vigour  unrivalled  in  the  literature,  except  by  the  Nial's  saga. 
The  language  is  simple,  but  its  simplicity  is  really  due  to  clear- 
ness of  thought  and  vividness  of  imagination.  The  periods  are 
short;  no  involution  is  indulged  in;  they  are  graphic,  pellucid. 
Speeches  are  abundant,  after  the  fashion  of  the  sources  Snorri 
made  use  of,  and  are  striking  specimens  of  conciseness  of  argu- 
ment and  concentration  of  point.    Dialogue,  too,  is  a  device 


Introdttctory  lxxxix 

frequently  made  use  of  for  the  purpose  of  exhibiting  a  situation 
in  stronger  relief.    This  form  of  style  Snorri  handles  with  great 
skill,  which  especially  shows  itself  in  his  tactful  resistance  against 
the  temptation  of  out-running  classical  conciseness.    We  refer 
the  reader  to  the  masterpiece,  vol.  hi.  279-283.    One  noticeable 
point  in  Snorri's  art  of  writing  history  is  the  employment  of 
silence,  where  the  piquancy  of  a  situation  cannot  fail  to  rouse 
the  reader's  reflection  as  to  what  really  took  place.    A  telling 
example  is  the  story  of  Harek's  kidnapping,1  and  the  mysteri- 
ous loss  of  two  ships  sent  to  Faro  by  Olaf  the  Holy,'2  for  the 
purpose  of  persuading  the  people  to  give  up  their  traditional 
independence.  For  humorous  situations,  too,  Snorri  has  a  keen 
taste,   witness:  Thorleifs  advice  to  King  Halfdan  the  Black 
how  to  procure  a  dream;3  the  story  of  the  tongue-bound  bon- 
ders at  the  Thing  in  Rogaland,  intending  to  vindicate  their  old 
faith  against  Olaf  Tryggvison:4  Hallfred's  conversion  to  Christi- 
anity;5 the  anecdote  of  the  propensities  of  Olaf  the  Holy's 
half-brethren;6  Thorarinn  Nefiolfson's  wager  anent  the  ugliness 
of  his  foot;7  the  interview  between  Lawman  Edmund  and  Olaf 
the  Swede;8  Thorarin  Nefiolfson's  tricks  on  Olaf  the  Holy  for 
the  purpose  of  saving  the  life  of  Asbiorn  Sealsbane;0  Harald 
Hardredy's  casting  of  lots  with  Gyrgir;10  Harald's  girding  at 
Earl  Finn  Arnison,  where,  by  the  way,  Snorri  shows  his  refine- 
ment of  feeling,  by  making  an  excuse  for  repeating  a  clever  but 
coarse  repartee  of  the  Earl;11  Olaf  the  Quiet  and  the  sooth- 
sayer;1" Sveinki  and  Sigurd  Woolstring;13  King  Magnus'  negotia- 
tions for  peace  with  Sveinki;14  Gifford  the  Welsh  knight;15  the 
man-matching    between    Kings    Eystein   and  Sigurd ; 16    King 
Eystein's  comforting  of  love-lorn  Ivar  Ingimundson;17  Thorarin 
Curtfell  at   King  Sigurd's  court;18  Harald  Gilli's  and  Queen 
Ingirid's  gifts  to  Bishop  Magnus  Einarson.19 — In  dreams  and 
wizardry  Snorri  seems  to  be  an  avowed  believer  (see  Index 
III),  as  we  must  expect  of  a  thirteenth-century  author ;  as  a 

1  Heimsk.,  i.  324-326. 

2  Ibid.,  ii.  246-7,  24930-2SO7>  2693-27412. 

3  Ibid.,  i.  84.  '  Ibid.,  1.  305.  3  Ibid.,  i.  337-339- 
8  Ibid.,  ii.  no-ui.          7  Ibid.,  ii.  133-134.  "  Ibid.,  ii.  155-160. 
0  Ibid.,  ii.  225-227.         10  Ibid.,  iii.  60-62.             "  Ibid.,  iii.  141. 

12  Ibid.,  iii.  199-201.         ,3  Ibid.,  iii.  214-217.  u  Ibid.,  iii.  217-220. 

15  Ibid.,  iii.  228-230.        "  Ibid.,  iii.  279-282.         17  Ibid.,  in.  265-267. 
18  Ibid.,  iii.  286-288.  19  Ibid.,  iii.  334-335- 


xc  Introductory 

good  churchman,  too,  he  believes  in  miracles  when  they  are 
authenticated  to  his  satisfaction. 

One  striking  quality  of  Snorri's  style  is  impartiality.  Abso- 
lutely faithful  to  the  tenets  of  the  school  of  oral  tradition,  he 
lets  facts  deliver  the  verdict  in  each  case,  keeping  his  own  judg- 
ment for  himself.  In  one  solitary  instance,  however,  he  could 
not  resist  speaking  out  in  decided  condemnation  of  an  act  per- 
formed, namely  the  sentence  passed  at  a  Thing  with  all  due 
formality  of  law  on  Earl  Sigund  of  Reyr.1  Even  his  unmistak- 
able patriotism  does  not  lead  him  astray  in  this  respect.  But 
we  can  see  that  in  his  strikingly  eloquent  account  of  the  suc- 
cessful resistance  of  the  Icelanders  to  the  political  plans  of 
Olaf  the  Holy,  he  wanted  to  read  his  countrymen  a  useful 
lesson  in  face  of  the  aggressive  attitude  of  King  Hakon. 

But  free  from  blemishes  our  historian  is  not.  He  has  lacked 
chronicles  both  English,  Francish,  and  others  of  still  more 
distant  lands,  and  therefore  makes  several  mistakes  in  English, 
Norman,  German,  and  Sicilian  history,  attention  to  which  is 
called  in  the  indexes.  Want  of  space  precludes  any  attempt  at 
giving  a  comprehensive  account  of  the  shortcomings  of  Snorri; 
the  wonder  is  that  in  so  voluminous  a  work  a  thirteenth-century 
writer  should  escape  with  so  few. 


KINGS  AND  EARLS  OF  NORWAY. 

Harald  Hairfair  860 — 933 

Eric  Bloodaxe  930 — 935 

Hakon  the  Good  934 — 961 

Harald  Greycloak  961 — 970 

Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir  970 — 995 

Olaf  Tryggvison  995 — 1000 

Eric  and  Svein,  Earls,  sons  of  Hakon  1000 — 1015 

Olaf  the  Holy  1015 — 1030 

Svein  Knutson  (Alfivason)  1030 — 1035 

Magnus  the  Good  1035 — 1047 

1  Heimsk.,  iii.  449-450. 


Introductory 

Kings  and  Earls  of  Norway,  continued. 
Harald  Hardredy 
Magnus  Haraldson 
Olaf  Haraldson,  the  Quiet 
Magnus  Barefoot 

Triple  reign: 
Olaf        ) 

Eystein    >    Magnus'  sons 
Sigurd     ) 
Magnus  the  Blind 
Harald  Gilli 

Triple  reign : 
Sigurd  Mouth  \ 

Eystein  >    Harald's  sons 

Ingi  ) 

Hakon  Shoulderbroad 
Magnus  Erlingson 
Sverrir  Sigurdson 


XC1 


1045—] 

[066 

1066 — ] 

:o68 

1067 — ] 

[093 

1093—] 

[103 

1 103— ] 

[116 

1 103— J 

[122 

1 103— ] 

[I30 

1 130— ] 

!35 

1 130— ] 

[136 

1136— ] 

[i55 

1142 — ] 

EI57 

1 136—  ] 

[161 

1161 — ] 

[162 

1162 — ] 

[184 

1 184—  ] 

[202 

KINGS  OF  DENMARK. 


Gorm  the  Old 

Harald  Gormson 

Svein  Twibeard 

Knut  the  Mighty 

Horda-Knut 

Magnus  the  Good 

Svein  Wolfson 

Harald  Hone 

Knut  the  Holy 

Olaf  Hunger 

Eric  the  Good 

Nicolas 

Eric  Everminded 

Eric  Lamb 

Svein  Ericson,  '  Grathe 

Knut  Magnusson 

Valdimar  I 


t  ab.  940 

ab.  940 — 986 

986 — 1014 

1014— 1035 

io35— io42 
1042 — 1047 
1047 — 1076 
1076 — 1080 
1080 — 1086 
1086 — 1095 
1095— 1 103 
1 103— 1 134 
1134— 1137 
1137— 1147 

1147— 1157 

1154 — 1182 


882? 

fab 

•  932 

fab 

•  994 

ab 

•  994— 

1022 

b.  1020?— 

1050 

ab. 

1050— 

1060 

1060 — 

1066 

xcii  Introductory 


KINGS  OF  SWEDEN. 

Eric  Emundson,  died  when  Harald  Hairfair  had  ruled  in  Norway 

for  ten  years 
Biorn,  said  to  have  reigned  for  fifty  years 
Olaf  Biornson  (no  dates). 
Eric  Biornson,  the  Victorious 
Olaf  the  Swede 
(James)  Onund  Olafson 
Emund  Olafson 
Steinkel  Rognvaldson 
Hallstein  Steinkelson  expelled. 
[Onund  from  Russia  expelled. 
Hakon  the  Red,  king  for  thirteen  years;  dates  in  both  cases 

unknown.] 
Hallstein  Steinkelson  again  and 
Ingi  I,  his  brother,  who  was  deposed. 

(Dates  in  both  cases  uncertain.) 
Blot-Svein,  for  three  years. 

Ingi  Steinkelson  again.  fab.  11 10 

[Eric  the  Yearseely,  said  to  have  been  king  in  Swede-realm 

proper.] 

118 

!25 
130 

134 

155 

l6l 

160 
l6l 
167 

195 


i  no- 


Philip  Hallsteinson 

Ingi  II,  Hallsteinson  ino- 

Rognvald  '  Knaphofdi,'  slain  ab. 

Magnus  Nicolasson,  slain 

Sorkvir,  in  Gautland  only,  after  1150?  ab.  1133- 

Karl  Sorkvirson,  in  Gautland  only  till 

Eric  the  Holy,  in  Swede-realm  proper  1150- 

Magnus,  son  of  Henry  the  Halt  1160- 

Karl  Sorkvirson,  for  the  whole  of  Sweden  1161- 

Knut  Ericson  1167- 


INDEX  I 

NAMES  OF  PERSONS  AND  PEOPLES 

(historical,  legendary,  mythical) 

ABSALON,  Archbishop  of  Lund,  in  Skaney,  u  78-1 201,  iii. 

473i 

ADALBRIKT,  Priest,  putative  father  to  Sigurd  Slembi- Deacon, 
by  Thora,  the  daughter  of  Saxi  of  Wick,  iii.  33618 

ADILS  (ASils),  son  of  K.  Ottar,  King  of  Sweden,  his  invasion 
of  Saxland  and  marriage  with  the  bondswoman  Yrsa,  i.  493.24 
— his  strife  with  Helgi,  King  in  Denmark,  4927-504 — his 
fight  with  King  Ali  of  Norway,  5o13.ls — his  death  and  burial 
in  mound  at  Upsala,  5o32-5i23 — reference  to,  in  "Biarklay 
the  Old,"  ii.  40726 

ADRIANUS  IV.,  Pope,  1154-1159,  see  Nicolas,  Cardinal. 

yEGIR,  the  god  of  the  sea,  ii.  29^ 

^LFGIFU,  see  Alfiva. 

.<ESIR,  the  Icel.  plur.  of  'Ass,  the  generic  term  for  the  whole 
tribe  of  the  heathen  gods  of  Scandinavia,  i.  192^ — memorial 
cups  'signed'  to  them,  ii.  i937.8 — see  Asfolk. 

^ETHELRED  (ASalraSr),  see  Ethelred. 

AFRAFASTI,  a  waylayer:  he  and  his  company  offer  their 
service  to  King  Olaf  marching  from  the  east  to  reconquer 
Norway,  who  rejects  them  unless  they  become  Christians,  a 
condition  they  refuse,  though  they  follow  his  host,  ii.  3943- 
39527 — they  consent  to  be  christened,  3995.31 — A.  falls  in 
the  first  brunt  of  the  battle  at  Sticklestead,  429x 

AGDIR  (-folk,  -people,  folk  of  A.,  people  of  A.,  they  of  A.) 
(EgSir),  inhabitants  of  the  folkland  of  Agdir,  S.W.  Norway, 
i.   m4.5  ii.  32319.20  35i13  36o](.  36i27  iii.  72,.  74l0  76,,,  223^ 

VI.  B 


2  Index  I  [agi — alf 

AGI,  father  of  Ozur,  who  was  the  fosterfather  of  Thyri,  the 

sister  of  Svein  Twibeard,  i.  34920 
AGNAR  (Agnarr),  son  of  Sigtrygg,  King  of  Vendil,  father  to 

Eric,  King  of  Westfold,  i.  6820.22 
AGNAR,  son  of  K.  Yngvar  of  Fiadrundaland,  i.  5  50.1G— burned 

in  a  banqueting  hall  at  Upsala  by  Ingiald  Evil-heart,  584.10 

AGNI,  son  of  Day  the  Wise,  succeeded  his  father  in  the 
kingdom  over  the  Swedes,  i.  33s— went  with  an  armed  host  to 
Finland  and  slew  in  battle  King  Frosty,  and  had  away  with 
him  his  daughter  Skialf  and  wedded  her,  but  she  hanged 
him  by  the  fatal  necklace  of  Visbur  at  Agnis-thwaite  by 
Stock-Sound,  33n-3429 — after  n^s  death  the  Swede-realm  was 
divided  among  his  two  sons,  and  from  that  time  was  the 
kingdom  in  Sweden  divided  among  heirs  until  the  days  of 
Ingiald  Evil-heart,  353.4  57i4-59v 

AKI  ( Aki),  a  wealthy  goodman  of  Vermland,  entertains  Kings 
Harald  of  Norway  and  Eric  of  Sweden,  the  former  in  a  new 
hall,  with  all  furniture  and  table-gear  new,  the  latter  in  an  old 
hall,  with  all  fittings  old,  wherefor  he  was  slain  by  King 
Eric,  i.  io615-io88 

AKI  (son  of  Palnatoki,  and  lord  in  the  island  of  Fion), 
married  to  Thorgunna  (the  daughter  of  Veseti)  of  Borgund- 
holm,  i.  2  7o29.30 

ALFARIN  (Alfarinn),  King  of  Elfhome,  i.  7o2S 

ALF  (Alfr),  son  of  K.  Alrek,  King  of  the  Swedes  together 
with  his  brother  Yngvi,  i.  36r3723 

ALF  ASHMAN  (A.  askma^r),  son  of  Ozur  and  brother  to 
Gunnhild,  the  wife  of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  fought  and  fell  in  the 
battle  of  Fitiar,  i.  i83n.14  i8531  i8619 

ALF  the  Red,  read  Alf  the  Ruffian. 

ALF  the  Ruffian  (A.  hro'Si,  or  ro^i),  son  of  Ottar  Brightling, 
sees  his  father  slain,  and  forthwith  kills  the  murderer,  iii. 
36919-26 — surprises  Bergliot  of  Elda  and  his  brother  Ogmund, 
and  slays  them,  416^9 — slain  by  Erling  Askew,  46823.2S 

ALF,  son  of  K.  Yngvar  of  Fiadrundaland,  i.  550 — approves 
himself  of  greater  pith  at  sports  than  Ingiald  Evil-heart, 
55i4-28 — burnt  in  a  banqueting  hall  at  Upsala  by  Ingiald, 

584-10  29"597 

ALFHILD,  see  also  Elfhild. 


alf — all]  Index  I  3 

ALFHILD  King's-bondmaid  ('Alfhildr  konungs  ambatt),  a 
serving  maiden  in  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  household,  mother 
to  King  Magnus  the  Good,  ii.  235^.^ — arrives  at  the  court 
of  her  son  Magnus  in  Norway,  iii.  n19,23 — jealousy  between 
her  and  Queen  Astrid,  11,3-12, — Sigvat  advises  her  in  song 
how  to  conduct  herself,  1530-34 

ALFIVA  (^Elfgifu),  daughter  of  '  Earl  Alfrun  '  [she  was  daugh- 
ter of -Elfhelm,  not  of  ^Elfmasr  as  the  D.N.B.  has  it,  ealder- 
man  of  Northumbria,  Wulfruna  being  the  name  of  her  mother, 
which  seems  to  reappear  in  '  Earl  Alfrun '],  concubine  of 
Knut  the  Mighty,  mother  of  Svein,  son  of  King  Knut,  ii. 
44910 — goes  to  Norway  with  her  son  Svein,  450, — views  the 
body  of  Olaf  Haraldson,  but  is  reluctant  to  accept  his  holi- 
ness, 4563.07 — her  influence  on  the  government  of  Norway, 
and  unpopularity  with  the  people,  46i23.26 

ALFLING  (Elfsi),  nickname  given  to  King  Alf  of  Sweden, 

i-  3611 

ALFRUN  [Snorri's  or  a  scribe's  mistake  for  ^Elfhelm,  an  Earl 
in  Northumbria],  father  of  Alfiva,  ii.  449n 

ALFWIN  (Alfvini),  a  great  fighter  at  holmgangs,  a  disappointed 
suitor  for  the  hand  of  Gyda,  i.  26405-2653 — overcome  in  a 
single  combat  by  Gyda's  chosen  favourite,  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
2663 19 

ALGAUT  (Algauti),  King  of  West-Gautland,  son  of  Gautrek 
the  Bounteous,  i.  565.6 — married  his  daughter,  Gauthild,  to 
Ingiald  Evil-heart,  567.12 — burned  to  death  by  his  son-in-law 
at  a  feast  at  Upsala,  580.3  29-594 

ALI  (AH),  a  legendary  hero,  i.  i862fi  2071(5  ii.  405^,  31 

ALI,  the  father  of  Thiostolf,  iii.  3i612 

ALI  the  Bold  ('A.  hinn  fraskni),  son  of  Fridleif,  conquered  the 
realm  of  the  Swedes  from  K.  Aun,  and  ruled  it  for  five  and 
twenty  years;  slain  by  Starkad  the  Old,  i.  42.23.29 

ALI  the  Un-Skauned  (A.  6skeyndr),  father  to  Munan,  iii.  419^ 

ALI  the  Uplander  ('A.  hinn  upplenzki),  a  Norwegian  king;  his 
war  with  King  Adils  of  Sweden,  and  fall  in  the  battle  on  the 
Vener  Lake,  i.  5o13.18 

ALLOGIA,  '  queen  '  of  King  Valdimar  of  Holmgarth,  befriends 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  230.^-23 121  (Allogia  seems  clearly  to 
be  the  Latinized  form  of  Olga,  the  Slavonic  pronunciation  of 
the  Scandinavian  Helga,  and  to  be  due  to  Odd  Snorrison's 


4  Index  I  [alo — amu 

Latin  life  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  one  of  the  early  Icelandic 
translations  of  which  Snorri  has  used  for  his  Olafs  saga. 
Whether  Vladimir  (Valdimar),  ruler  in  Novgorod,  970-977. 
and  afterwards  in  Kiew,  980-1015,  had  among  his  many  wives 
one  named  Olga  is  not  known,  but  his  grandmother's  name 
was  Olga,  a  very  famous  queen,  ob.  969,  who,  during  part  of 
the  reign  of  her  son,  Swjatoslav,  945-973.  played  a  most  im- 
portant part  in  the  government  of  the  State.  If  Olaf  was  born 
in  963,  he  could  in  his  tenth  year  (as  Odd  avers)  have  come 
to  the  court  of  Vladimir  in  Novgorod;  but  as  to  the  queen 
the  northern  tradition  may  have  made  of  a  famous  grand- 
mother a  famous  wife  of  Vladimir. 

ALOF  ('Alof),  daughter  of  Asbiorn,  and  wife  of  Hersir  Klypp, 
entertains  King  Sigurd  Slaver,  and  is  dishonoured  by  him 
against  her  will,  i.  2 1 522.25  30.32 

ALOF,  Olof  ('Alof,  'Olof),  daughter  of  Bodvar  the  Hersir,  son 
of  Viking-Kari,  and  mother  of  Gizur  the  White,  i.  3342s-29  n- 

89s-9 

ALOF  the  Mighty  (A.  hin  rika),  wife  of  Geirthiof,  K.  in  Sax- 
land,  but  mother  of  Yrsa  (q.v.)  by  Helgi,  K.  in  Denmark, 
i.  497-5o9 

ALOF  ('A),  daughter  of  K.  Olaf  the  Farsighted,  wife  of  K. 
Algaut  and  mother  to  Gauthild,  wife  of  Ingiald  Evil-heart, 

i-  565  65o7 
ALOF  YEAR'S-HEAL  (A.  arb6t),  daughter  of  Harald  Hair- 
fair,  and,  apparently,  Gyda,  daughter  of  King  Eric  of  Horda- 
land,  i.  ii49 — married  to  Thorir  the  Silent,  Earl  of  Mere, 

I257   * 3725-26 

ALREK  ('Alrekr),  son  of  K.  Agni,  King  of  the  Swedes  together 
with  his  brother  Eric,  i.  3Si-so 

AMUNDI  (Amundi),  son  of  Ami  Arnmodson,  ii.  i98ls 

AMUNDI,  son  of  Gyrd,  the  son  of  Amundi,  and  of  Gyrid,  the 
sister  of  Gregory  Dayson,  a  boy  of  five  years  made  prisoner 
of  war  at  Vettland  by  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  hi.  42o2 

AMUNDI,  son  of  Gyrd,  the  son  of  Law-Bersi,  gives  fostering 
to  K.  Ingi,  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  34716  21 — defeats  Earl 
Karl  Sonason  at  Crookshaw,  350.75-35 1: — has  to  do  with  the 
torture  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  364^  3663.23 — after  his 
death  the  sons  of  Harald  Gilli,  Ingi  and  Sigurd,  set  up 
separate  courts,  3779.16 


amu — ari]  Index  I  5 

AMUNDI  of  Sandwick  in  Rossey,  Orkney,  ii.  17107.09  i8g13 — 
his  relations  with  Earl  Einar  Wrongmouth,  \12x-t.*IZ^ 

AN  the  Shooter  (Ann  skyti)  of  Iamtland,  a  forecastle  man  on 
the  Long- Worm,  i.  353- 

ANDRE(A)S  (Andres),  son  of  Bruni,  a  priest  at  Cross  Church, 
Kings'  Rock,  married  to  Solveig;  his  character  and  family, 
iii.  325^0 — exhorts  his  people  to  bear  themselves  manfully 
in  face  of  the  Kings'  Rock's  wonders,  325^-3265 — his 
dealings  with  Rettibur,  King  of  the  Wends,  and  his  nephew, 
Dunimiz,  at  the  sack  of  Kings'  Rock,  326-333 — saves  the 
holy  relics  of  Cross  Church,  33224.25  3332.25 

ANDREAS,  son  of  Guthorm  Graybeard,  tortures  an  English 
priest,  Richard,  for  an  offence  towards  his  sister,  of  which 
the  priest  was  innocent,  iii.  381^384^ 

ANDREAS,  son  of  Simon  son  of  Thorberg,  fosterbrother  of 
K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  iii.  373.20-24 — a  follower  of  King 
Hakon,  399n — dies  at  Cheaping-north,  4i610.r, 

ANDRES  the  Deaf  (A.  daufi),  son  of  Sigurd  of  Eastort,  iii. 

33625-26 

ANDREAS  WELLSHIT  (A.  kelduskitr),  son  of  Grim,  from 
Vist,  flies  away  from  King  Ingi  Haraldson,  when  revenging 
on  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  the  slaughter  of  his  courtman, 
Bentein  Kolbeinson,  iii.  3555-35614 

ANI,  see  Aun. 

ARI,  the  son  of  Einar,  iii.  36230 

ARI  (Marson),  of  Reek-knolls,  Iceland,  iii.  35629 

ARI  THORGEIRSON,  an  Icelander,  the  father  of  Gudmund, 
bp  of  H61ar  in  Iceland,  1203-1237,  falls  in  the  fight  at 
Rydiokul,  iii.  47622 

ARI  THORGILSSON  the  Learned  (A.  hinn  fr6$i),  1068-1148, 
the  first  Icelander  who  wrote  in  the  vernacular;  the  matter  and 
manner  of  his  writings,  i.  516-710 — came  seven  years  old  (1075) 
to  Hawkdale,  612 — abode  there  fourteen  years  (1075-89),  613 — 
had  for  teacher  Teit,  the  son  of  bp  Isleif,  627.33— drew  historical 
information  from  Odd,  the  son  of  Kol,  65 — Hall  of  Hawkdale, 
611-22 — and  Thurid,  daughter  of  Snorri  the  priest,  7^5 — was 
a  truthful  historian  of  eager  wit  and  faithful  memory,  76.10 — 
cited  as  an  authority  on  the  chronology  of  the  reigns  of  Earl 
Hakon  of  Ladir  and  King  Harald  Graycloak,  as  well  as  on 
the  relations  between  Hakon  and  the  sons  of  Gunnhild  during 


6  Index  I  [ari — arn 

the  last  six  years  of  Graycloak's  life,  2  3 925.34— likewise  on  the 
history  of  the  reign  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  367u.19 — and  on  the 
age  of  Olaf  when  he  fell,  46o31-46 c2 

ARINBIORN  (Arinbjorn),  son  of  Thorir,  a  hersir  out  of  the 
Firths,  fell  with  Harald  Graycloak  at  Neck  in  Limbfirth  in 
Denmark,  i.  23726.2V  239.^ 

ARNBIORN  AMBI  (Arnbjorn  ambi),  fights  on  the  side  of 
Magnus  the  Blind  and  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  in  the  battle  of 
Holm-the-Gray ;  after  their  defeat  he  throws  himself  on  the 
mercy  of  Jon  Kauda,  by  whom  he  is  ransomed  from  King 
Ingi,  iii.  361^-363^ 

ARNBIORN,  son  of  Ami  Arnmodson,  ii.  198^ — slain,  through 
misadventure,  by  Griotgarth  Olvir's  son,  3443r3450  374is 

ARNFINN  of  Sogn  (Arnfinnr  sygnski),  stationed  in  the  fore- 
hold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35318 

ARNFINN,  son  of  Arnmod,  father  to  Kalf  and  Olaf,  the 
'  kinsmen,'  i.e.  first  cousins,  of  Kalf,  the  son  of  Ami  Arnmod- 
son, ii.  43i.,s  cf.  Flat.  ii.  35614 

ARNFINN,  Earl,  son  of  Thorfinn  Scull-cleaver,  by  Grelad,  d. 
of  Dungad,  Earl  of  Caithness,  marries  Ragnhild,  the  daughter 
of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  i.  i5915.16  24i„5,  where  he  is  called  Arnvid, 
cf.  ii.  1683^169., 

ARNI  (Ami)  (The  sons  of),  ii.   i9815.20  3619  4533.18  46322-24 

4645-6 
ARNI,  son  of  Ami  Arnmodson,  ii.  i9810 — refuses  to  aid  his 

brother  Thorberg  in  holding  Stein  Skaptison  in  King  Olaf 

Haraldson's  despite,  283^3 — changes  his  mind  and  together 

with  his  other  brothers  aids  Thorberg  to  come  to  terms  with 

the  King,  2844-28621 — swears  oath  of  faith  and  fealty  to  the 

King,  28514.o0  286n.13 — with  King  Olaf  at  Eidwood  on  his 

way  to  Holmgarth,  3694 — his  son  Joan's  family  relations,  iii. 

I7]0-14 

ARNI,  the  son  of  Arnmod,  married  to  Thora,  d.  of  Thorstein 
Gallows,  ii.  (240-) — his  children  (2427),  i98l7.20 — his  position, 
and  friendly  relations  with  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  198^-1993 — 
all  his  sons  in  K.  Olaf  Haraldson's  service,  much  esteemed, 
333i7io  cn"-  36 1 9 — his  son  Kalf  among  K.  Olafs  enemies  at 
Sticklestead,  4310509 — see  Ami  (The  sons  of). 

ARNI  FICKLESKULL  ('A.  brigSarskalli),  bailiff  to  King 
Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  slain  by  Erling  Askew,  iii.  43831 


arn] 


Index  I 


ARNI  FORESHORE-SKEW  (A.  fjoruskeifr),  tells  falsely  the 
Icel.  poet  Thorarin  Curtfell  that  he  is  ordered  by  King  Sigurd 
Jerusalem-farer  to  memorialize  in  a  humorous  verse  Hakon 
Suet-neck,  which  he  does.  How  Ami  had  to  pay  for  his  fib, 
hi.  2  86,5-2  885 

ARNI,  the  son  of  Frirek,  falls  fighting  for  K.  Ingi  Haraldson 
before  Oslo,  iii.  4279 

ARNI  of  Stodreim,  called  King's,  i.e.  K.  Ingi  Haraldson's, 
stepfather  ('A.  a  StoSreimi,  konungsmagr),  married  Queen 
Ingirid,  K.  Harald  Gilli's  widow,  their  children,  iii.  37o22.27 — 
fights  on  the  side  of  K.  Ingi  in  Biorgvin  against  K.  Sigurd 
Mouth  when  the  latter  fell,  389- — waives,  on  behalf  of  his  sons 
with  Queen  Ingirid,  all  claims  to  the  kingdom  of  Norway, 
4364-1.5 — joins  K.  Magnus  and  Erling  Askew  in  their  visit  to 
K.  Valdimar  of  Denmark,  437o0 — urges  the  doom  of  Earl 
Sigurd  Hallvardson  of  Reyr,  44900.450., 

ARNI  STOUR  (A.  sturla),  son  of  Seabear,  a  supporter  of 
King  Eystein,  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3686.14 — undertakes,  on 
behalf  of  K.  Eystein,  a  disastrous  mission  to  K.  Ingi,  39314.23 

ARNKEL  (Arnkell),  son  of  Turf-Einar,  Earl  of  Orkney,  which 
he  held  as  feof  of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  joins  Eric  Bloodaxe's 
expedition  against  Edmund,  K.  of  England,  and  falls  in  battle 
in  the  south  of  England,  i.  i53->0-i54a3 — cf.  ii.  i6896.30 

ARNLIOT  GELLINI  (Arnlj6tr"Gellini),  a  Swede,  brother  to 
Vikar  of  Tenthland,  i.  3533 — an  outlaw  in  Iamtland  together 
with  his  brother-in-law  and  sister,  ii.  29832-299^- — helps 
Thorod  Snorrison  to  escape  from  his  pursuers  by  a  marvellous 
feat  of  snow-shoeing,  299^.30— a  legend  of  him  and  a  cannibal 
ogress  (troll-wife),  29933-301^ — his  message  to  King  Olaf 
Haraldson  and  present  to  him  of  a  silver  dish,  3oio7.33  3025.12 
4i526 — comes  to  K.  Olaf  at  Sticklestead — personal  de- 
scription— conversion  to  Christianity,  4153-416^ — falls  at 
Sticklestead,  42832 

ARNMOD  (Arnmo^r),  ancestor  of  the  family  of  the  Arnmod- 
lings,  ii.  i9815 

ARNOR  the  Mereman  (Arn6rr  mcerski),  stationed  in  the  fore- 
hold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35315.16 

ARNOR  Earls'  skald  (A.  jarlaskald),  son  of  Thord,  author  of  a 
drapa  on  Earl  Thorfin  of  Caithness,  Sutherland  and  Orkney, 
ii.  i7o]7.22  i8816.20  23413 — sings,  in  his  Magnus  drapa,  of  K. 


8  Index  I  [arn — asa 

Magnus  the  Good's  departure  from  Holmgarth  to  Aldeigia- 
burg,  iii.  37.16 — also  of  his  journey  to  Sweden,  319-44— of  his 
arrival  in  Helsingland,  6l7.25— tells  of  the  flight  of  King  Svein 
on  his  arrival  at  Thrandheim,  72-n — of  Kin§  Magnus's 
intention  to  conquer  Denmark,  2615.24 — of  King  Magnus's 
stately  sailing  from  Norway,  2  716.35 — tells  of  the  setting  out  of 
Magnus  against  the  Wends,  3210.19 — and  of  his  deeds  of  war 
at  Jomsburg,  3224.33 — of  the  battle  on  Lyrshaw-heath,  3615.22 
— of  the  battle  at  Re,  3820.24 — the  battle  at  Holy-ness,  4611-19 
47iM5— of  the  fighting  at  Falster,  493r5°6— at  Fion'  5°9-i7— 
of  Magnus's  battles  in  Denmark,  51^ — of  King  Harald's 
war  deeds  in  Fion,  i2i3.7 — of  the  battle  of  Niz,  i362S-i372 — 
of  the  battle  of  Stamford  Bridge,  i7628-i774 — of  the  death 
of  Harald  Sigurdson,  i782.10 

ARNVID,  King  of  South-Mere,  fights,  in  alliance  with  Audbiorn, 
King  of  Firthfolk,  against  Harald  Hairfair  at  Solskel,  and  is 
defeated  and  slain,  i.  ioin-io219 

ARNVID,  son  of  Thorfinn  Skullcleaver,  Earl  of  Orkney,  i.  24i25 
— see  Arnfin. 

ARNWITH  the  Blind  (ArnviSr  blindi),  a  counsellor  of  King 
Olaf  the  Swede;  his  comments  on  his  king's  dealings  with 
Olaf  of  Norway  in  the  matter  of  the  betrothal  to  him  of  his 
daughter  Ingigerd,  ii.  i6o12.29 — his  eyesight  and  mental 
capacity,  i6o30.33 — condition  and  quality,  i6i4.6 — his  advice 
to  King  Olaf  the  Swede,  when  his  subjects  were  on  the  point 
of  revolting  against  him,  i6220-i634 — joins  his  brother  Frey- 
with  in  frustrating  a  revolt  against  King  Olaf  by  having  his 
(OlaPs)  son  James  (Onund)  elected  king,  163^-165,3 

ASA  EVIL-HEART  ('Asa  hin  illraSa),  daughter  "to  King 
Ingiald  of  Sweden,  married  to  Gudrod,  King  of  Scania 
(Sconen),  whom  she  caused  to  be  killed,  i.  6230-6316 — where- 
upon she  fled  to  her  father,  and  with  him  burned  herself  to 
death  and  all  the  court,  in  a  banqueting  hall,  6322-6420 

ASA,  daughter  of  Eystein  the  Terrible,  King  of  the  Uplands, 
married  to  King  Halfdan  Whiteleg,  i.  67l7.21 

ASA,  daughter  of  Earl  Hakon  Griotgarth's  son,  married  to  King 
Harald  Hairfair  (his  first  wife),  i.  9821.22  no26 

ASA,  daughter  of  King  Harald  Redlip  of  Agdir,  second  wife  of 
Gudrod,  the  Hunter-king,  who  seized  her,  after  having  slain 
her  father  for  refusing  him  her  in  marriage,  i.  7i3.17 — causes 


asa — asb]  Index  I  9 

her  foot-page  to  slay  her  husband,  7i21-7212 — retires,  after  the 
murder  of  her  husband,  with  her  son,  Halfdan  the  Black,  to 
Agdir,  which  kingdom  she  ruled  after  her  father's  death,  776.12 

ASA  the  Light  ('A.  hin  ljosa),  the  mother  of  two  base-born  sons 
(Finn  and  Sigurd)  of  Erling  Askew,  iii.  4747.s 

ASBIORN  (Asbjorn),  stationed  in  the  forehold  on  board  the 
Long- Worm,  i.  353^ 

ASBIORN,  one  of  King  Magnus  the  Blind's  landed-men,  cast 
into  the  Sarp  waterfall  by  order  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3i913 

ASBIORN,  an  earl  of  King  Harald  Hairfair's,  slain  in  the 
second  battle  of  Solskel,  i.  io229 

ASBIORN  of  Forland,  of  King  Hakon  Shoulderbroad's  host  in 
his  last  battle,  iii.  44i14 

ASBIORN  MARE  ('A.  jalda),  of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad's  follow- 
ing, 'the  greatest  viking,'  slain  at  Saur-Byes,  iii.  4i91v.24 

ASBIORN  of  Middlehouse  opposes  King  Hakon  the  Good's 
attempt  at  Frosta-Thing  to  convert  the  people  to  Christianity, 
i.  i67n-i6810  i7o16 

ASBIORN,  nicknamed  Seal's-bane  (Selsbani),  ii.  2  3o21  son 
of  Sigurd  of  Thrandness,  and  of  his  wife,  Sigrid,  a  sister 
to  Erling  Skialgson,  2i4lg.22 — comes,  eighteen  years  old, 
into  his  patrimony,  when  hard  seasons  and  dearth  set  in 
in  Halogaland,  in  spite  of  which,  and  in  defiance  of  his 
mother's  advice,  he  would  keep  up  the  great  feasts  of  his 
father,  2i57.30 — his  case  rendered  still  worse  by  King  Olaf 
Haraldson's  prohibition  against  exportation  of  corn  from 
southern  Norway,  where  it  was  plentiful,  2i530-2i6x  cf.  2ii4.8 
— his  journey  to  the  south  in  quest  of  corn  and  ruinous 
dealings  with  Thorir  Seal,  216^220^ — his  sorry  plight  on 
his  return  home,  2  2012.33 — takes  revenge  on  Thorir  Seal  by 
slaying  him  standing  before  the  King,  22i3-2234 — his  rescue 
by  the  interference  of  his  kinsmen,  Skialg  and  Erling  his 
father,  2  2  3r-2  2  929 — accepts  from  the  King  the  stewardship 
of  the  manor  of  Ogvaldsness,  on  condition  of  being  allowed 
to  arrange  his  affairs  at  home  first,  22930-23o8 — his  journey 
to  the  north  and  breach  of  the  covenant  with  the  King,  230^- 
23i]( — slain  on  board  his  ship  by  the  King's  bailiff  Asm und 
Grankelson,  his  body  being  brought  north  to  Thrandness, 
238i4-23914— his  mother's  egging-on  of  Thorir  Hound  to 
avenge  him,  2  3914-24o4 — Thorir  Hound  advised  as  to  who 


io  Index  I  [asb — asl 

was  the  slayer  of  Asbiorn,  24o14.2r — slays  King  Olaf  s  partner 

Karli  in    revenge,   265^.93 — and  completes  his   revenge   at 

Sticklestead,  42o31  43I80"433ii 
ASBIORN  SNARE  (A.  snari),  brother  of  Archbishop  Absalon, 

sent  by  K.  Valdimar  of  Denmark  to  Norway  as  hostage  in 

return  for  Erling  Askew,  who  gave  himself  as  hostage  to  K. 

Valdimar  on  behalf  of  the  King  of  Norway,  iii.  47233-473,, 
ASBIORN  THORBERGSON  of  Varness,  threatened  by  Olaf 

Tryggvison  with  being  sacrificed  to  the  gods,  i.  319^ 
ASBIORN  of  Yriar,  father  of  Aiof,  the  wife  of  Klypp  the  Hersir, 

i-  2i525.27 

AS-FOLK  (^Esir),  Odin's  divine  tribe,  i.  i312  2S  i42 13 15  24  28  i618 
20  24 — called  Lay-smiths,  as  being  authors  of  poetry,  i724 — also 
called  smiths  of  wizardry,  i827 — their  ancient  laws  re-enacted 
on  their  coming  to  Sweden,  2o3.23 — represented  in  carven 
images  at  the  Hippodrome  in  Micklegarth,  iii.  26ol7 

ASGAUT  (Asgautr),  an  earl  of  King  Harald  Hairfair's,  slain 
in  the  second  battle  of  Solskel,  i.  io209 

ASGAUT  BAILIFF  ('A.  armaSr),  brother  to  Thorgaut  Hare- 
lip and  leader  with  him  of  a  mission,  from  King  Olaf  the 
Swede,  to  Norway  to  gather  the  taxes  K.  Olaf  the  Swede 
laid  claim  to  there,  ii.  6924-7o15 — refuses  to  follow  his  brother's 
advice  to  return  to  Sweden  when  the  '  bonders '  would  not 
comply  with  their  commands,  but  takes  the  mission  to  King 
Olaf  Haraldson's  presence,  effecting  however  nothing,  7o16- 
7212 — he  parts  from  Thorgaut,  and  starts  for  Mere  to  push 
on  the  Swede's  business,  is  pursued  by  King  Olaf  Haraldson's 
guests  and  hanged  together  with  his  followers,  7214.27 

ASHILD  (Ashildr),  daughter  of  Ring  Dayson  of  Ringrick,  one 
of  Harald  Hairfair's  wives,  i.  ii41S91 

AS-HOST,  see  As-folk. 

ASKEL  (Askell),  a  forecastle  man  of  King  Eric  Everminded, 
shot  by  Thiostolf  Alison,  iii.  35225.30 

ASKEL,  son  of  Olmod,  the  son  of  Horda-Kari,  and  father  to 
Aslak  Pate  a-  (Skull  o')  Fitiar,  i.  30331  ii.  2i214 

ASLAK  (Aslakr)  of  Aurland,  iii.  2O920 

ASLAK  COCK  ('A.  hani),  chides  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  for 
breaking  the  law  of  the  fast,  and  for  his  outspokenness  is  re- 
warded with  three  manors  by  the  King,  iii.  292.^-294^ 

ASLAK  ERLENDSON,  commander  on  the  side  of  K.  Ingi, 


asl — asm]  Index  I  1 1 

son  of  K  Harald  Gilli,  in  his  last  fight  with  his  brother,  K. 
Sigurd  Mouth,  iii.  38qs 

ASLAK,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli  and  of  Astrid,  d.  of 
Tryggvi  Olafson,  ii.  2425 — married  (not  Gunnhild,  which  is 
Snorri's  mistake,  3314.15  but)  Sigrid,  d.  of  Earl  Svein,  the  son 
of  Hakon  the  Mighty,  255^  iii.  10603.07 — two  daughters  of 
his  became  mothers  respectively  of  Hakon  Pungelta  and 
Hakon  Maw,  iii.  3567.10 — he  receives  at  the  hands  of  his 
father-in-law  and  his  co-regent  Earl  Hakon  Ericson  the  same 
grants  that  Olaf  Tryggvison  had  conferred  on  his  father  Erling, 
ii.  331o.ls — goes  to  K.  Knut  in  England  and  gets  into  great 
favour  at  court,  2  5525.32 — lives  at  Soli  in  the  days  of  Harald 
Hardredy,  iii.  io624 

ASLAK  of  Finn-isle  ('A.  af  Finneyju),  oath-sworn  to  King  Knut 
to  take  the  life  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  ii.  39o10.15 — falls  at  the 
battle  of  Sticklestead,  4348 

ASLAK  Pate  a-Fitiar,  Skull  o'  Fitiar  ('A.  Fitjaskalli),  son 
of  Askel,  the  son  of  Olmod,  the  son  of  Horda-Kari,  i.  30331 
— a  favourite  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  who  enfiefed  him  in 
South-Hordland  to  counteract  the  great  power  of  his  cousin 
Erling  Skialgson  (Family  relation :  Horda-Kari — Ogmund — 
Thorolf  Skialg — Erling:  Horda-Kari — Olmod — Askel — As- 
lak),  ii.  2i212.19— after  an  unavailing  struggle  he  has  to  clear 
out  of  his  bailiwick,  and  put  himself  under  K.Olafs  protection, 
2i219.2s  2i33.n  17.19— kills  Erling  Skialgson,  35807  30—K  Olaf's 
real  or  pretended  anger  at  the  deed,  35831.33 — Aslak's  reply, 

35834"359s— Sigvat's  song  on  the  act,  359oS-36oi4— takes  his 
ship  into  Borgund,  3627.9 — is  slain  by  Vigleik  there,  3629.13 

ASLAK  HAKONSON,  joins  K.  Magnus  the  Blind  on  being 
set  free  from  the  monastery  of  Monk-holm,  iii.  3498 

ASLAK  HOLM-PILLPATE  (A.  H61mskalli),  'foster-son  of 
Bui,'  killed  by  an  anvil  in  the  battle  of  Hiorungbay,  i.  28o,M5 

ASLAK  THE  YOUNG  ('A.  ungi),  son  of  Jon,  sent  on  a  dis- 
astrous mission  by  King  Eystein  Haraldson  to  his  brother 
King  Ingi,  iii.  39314.23 

ASLAUG  ('Aslaug),  daughter  of  Sigurd  Worm-in-Eye,  wife  of 
Helgi  the  Keen,  and  mother  to  King  Sigurd  Hart,  i.  8i4.9 

ASMUND  (Asmundr)  [son  of  Biorn],  fosterson  and  nephew  of 
K.  Svein  Wolfson  (not  the  son  of  his  sister,  as  Heimskringla  has 
it,  but  of  his  brother  Biorn,  as  Flat.  iii.  37o1G  correctly  states  it) 


12  Index  I  [asm — AST 

an  unprincipled  filibuster,  and  great  trouble  to  his  fosterfather, 
iii.  ii7-n82 — yielding  to  the  people's  complaints  K.  Svein 
charges  his  'warden  of  the  land,'  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson,  to 
put  Asmund  down,  1 183.12 — Hakon  attacks  Asmund  and  slays 
him,  and  brings  the  King  his  head,  for  which  deed  he  is  dis- 
missed the  King's  service,  u813.31 

ASMUND,  son  of  Grankel,  ii.  191.26-31 — K.  Olaf  Haraldson's 
man  and  favourite,  i925.n — appointed  by  K.  Olaf  to  the 
one  half  of  the  bailiwick  of  Halogaland  that  Thorir  Hound 
held  already,  2  376.25 — visits  his  father,  2  3726.28 — his  con- 
nection with  the  brothers  Gunnstein  and  Karfi  of  Longisle, 
2  372S-24o2r — by  Karli's  aid  he  slays  Asbiorn  SeaPs-bane, 
23814-23912 — announces  the  fact  to  K.  Olaf  and  is  overheard 
by  Asbiorn's  friends,  who  bring  the  news  to  the  latter's  family, 
24°i4-27 — nas  a  quarrel  with  Harek  of  Thiotta  over  an  out- 
lying island  rich  in  fishing,  seal-catch  and  eggs,  and  mis- 
handles the  housecarles  of  Thorir  for  clearing  it,  292-293^ 
— peace  made  by  King  Olaf  between  him  and  Thorir:  the 
island  being  adjudged  Asmund's  property,  and  Thorir's  house- 
carles  left  unatoned,  293^-294^ — revenging  his  father,  he 
slays  Harek  of  Thiotta  with  an  axe  handed  to  him  for  the 
purpose  by  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  iii.  i721-i810 — is  given 
domain  and  bailiwick  in  Halogaland  by  K/Magnus,  i816.19 

ASMUND,  son  of  Saemund  Housewife,  ruler  at  Kings'  Rock, 
iii.  32  54 — in  the  battle  at  Kings'  Rock,  33o13.20  33i!.3 

ASOLF  (Asdlfr)  of  Reinir,  son  of  Skuli  King's  fosterer  and 
Gudrun  Nefstein's  daughter,  married  to  Thora,  the  daughter 
of  Skopti  Ogmundson,  iii.  i8410  u 

ASTA  (Asta),  daughter  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  married  to  King 
Harald  the  Grenlander,  i.  284v.9  285^ — on  hearing  of 
Harald's  death  she  went  to  stay  with  her  father,  where  she 
gave  birth  to  a  son,  Olaf  the  Holy,  2  873.19 — marries  Sigurd 
Syr,  King  of  Ringrealm,  and  with  him  and  her  son  Olaf  be- 
comes a  Christian  at  the  instance  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  3ii3-l7 
— brings  up  her  son  Olaf  at  her  second  husband's  house,  ii. 
35.7 — fits  Olaf  out  on  his  first  viking  cruise,  55.s — her  and 
Sigurd's  children,  3526.28  248^ — her  festive  reception  of  Olaf 
on  his  return  to  Norway,  34,3-3 78 — partakes  in  a  family  counsel, 
where  Olaf  discloses  his  plans  to  fight  for  the  kingdom  of 
Norway,  3721-4i12 — her  speech  on   that   occasion,   AiVVi. — 


AST] 


Index  I  13 


widow  a  second  time,  10907 — makes  a  great  banquet  for  her 
son  after  his  overthrow  of  five  Upland  kings,  io928.29 — she 
shows  her  children  of  second  marriage  to  the  King,  1  io3-i  1 i.,3 
ASTRID  (AstriSr),  daughter  of  Burislaf,  King  in  Wendland, 
i.  2  5210 — married  to  Earl  Sigvaldi,  captain  of  the  Jomsburg 
vikings,  2  7i4.5  36ols.19  375^3 — was  a  great  friend  of  her  brother- 
in-law  Olaf  Tryggvison  (formerly  a  husband  of  her  sister  Geira), 
36ols.oo — sent  a  war-galley  to  the  battle  of  Svoldr,  on  board 
which  some  will  have  it  that  she  took  Olaf  Tryggvison  when 

defeated,  37532*3  37-3765 

ASTRID,  daughter  of  Eric  Biodaskalli,  married  to  K.  Tryggvi 
Olafson,  i.  2  2  35.s  ii.  896.7 — fled  from  home  after  the  murder 
of  her  husband,  and  gave  birth  to  a  son,  Olaf,  in  a  small 
island  in  an  unnamed  lake,  i.  2  2  3s.n  16.21 — betakes  her,  under 
cover  of  lengthening  nights,  to  her  father,  where  she  is  well 
cared  for  and  her  child,  223^-224^ — Queen  Gunnhild  makes 
inquiries  about  her  and  learns  that  she,  with  her  son,  is  living 
with  her  father,  2  2415.30  2  2  53.10 — Astrid  eludes  Gunnhild's 
spies,  and,  by  her  father's  counsel,  gets  away  from  Norway  to 
Hakon  the  Old  in  Sweden,  225n-22720 — going  across  the  sea 
to  her  brother  Sigurd  in  Garthrealm  she  is  captured  by  Wend- 
ish  vikings  and  sold  into  slavery,  2  2  82G-2  2  98 — she  and  her 
son  separated,  2  2  9s.9  2  3o1 — found  by  Lodin  in  a  slave-market 
in  Esthonia  and  taken  by  him  to  Norway,  where  he  marries 
her,  300^-301,, — her  children,  3oi6.9 

ASTRID,  daughter  of  Ogmund,  the  mother  of  Earl  Karl  Sona- 
son,  hi.  35i7.s 

ASTRID,  natural  daughter  of  King  Olaf  the  Swede,  by  Edla, 
a  daughter  of  a  Wendish  earl,  ii.  1393.7  i6o19.22 — brought  up 
with  Egill,a  noble  lord  in  West-Gautland,  personal  description 
and  character,  i3910.25 — visits  Earl  Rognvald  at  Skarar  at 
the  time  that  Sigvat  arrives  there  to  find  out  what  is  to  become 
of  the  betrothal  of  Olaf  of  Norway  to  Princess  Ingigerd  of 
Sweden,  i4824.26 — gives  Sigvat  and  the  Earl  to  understand 
that  she  is  ready  to  marry  Olaf  of  Norway  without  her  father's 
consent,  148^- 149.4 — by  Sigvat's  counsel  Olaf  Haraldson 
decides  on  marrying  her,  iso34-i5i9 — married  to  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson  at  Sarpsburg,  1 5  i2--i  535 — an  act  for  which  all  those 
responsible  for  it  incurred  her  father's  wrath,  i55l7.19 — her 
goodwill  towards  Biorn  the  Steward,  33817.22  34i2 — accom- 


14  Index  I  [ast — atl 

panies  the  King  on  his  flight  from  Norway  to  Sweden,  36831- 
569j — left  in  Sweden  while  K.  Olaf  proceeds  to  Holmgarth, 
36g.,s.30 — meets  the  King  at  Riveroyce  returning  from  the 
east  on  his  attempted  reconquest  of  Norway,  387U.M — she 
stays  behind  in  Sweden,  39 i25.2T— interests  herself  much  on 
behalf  of  her  husband's  son  Magnus,  hi.  45-535— goes  to  live 
at  the  court  of  Magnus  in  Norway :  rivalry  between  her  and 
Alfhild   his    mother,   n16-i22— Sigvat,   on   their  squabbles, 

I  5''8"34 

ASTRID,  daughter  of  King  Svein  Twibeard  and  Sigrid  the 
Highminded,  half-sister  of  King  Knut  the  Mighty  and  K. 
Olaf  the  Swede,  married  to  Earl  Wolf,  the  son  of  Thorgils 
Sprakaleg,  their  son  being  Svein  Ulfson,  King  of  Denmark. 

ii-  26703.0,3  hi-  293.10  7722-23 

ASTRID,  daughter  of  K.  Tryggvi  Olafson  and  Astnd,  1.  30I9 — 
given  in  marriage  by  her  brother  Olaf  Tryggvison  to  Erling 
Skialgson,  3060,3-3085— her  children,  ii.  2424.27 

ATHELSTANE  (ASalsteinn),  yEthelstane,  'called  the  Victori- 
ous (hinn  sigrsaeli)  or  Faithful  (hinn  tnifasti),'  King  of  England 
(925-940),  i.  13807.30 — his  attempted  ruse  to  make  Harald 
Hairfair  his  vassal,  i3831- 13903 — is  tricked,  in  return,  by 
Harald  into  fostering  his  son  Hakon,  to  whom  he  gives  a 
Christian  and  a  princely  education,  and  a  precious  sword,  1 3930- 
!4!  — fits  Hakon  out  to  claim  the  throne  of  Norway,  i495.10 
— on  Eric  Bloodaxe  fleeing  his  country  before  Hakon  and 
invading  Northumberland  Athelstane  made  peace  with  him, 
appointing  him  his  vassal  King  of  Northumberland,  convert- 
ing him  and  his  following  to  Christianity  at  the  same  time, 
i52o.23 — died  in  his  bed  when  he  had  been  king  for  '  fourteen 
years  eight  weeks  and  three  days,'  i531113 

ATLI  [Hoskuldson,  cf.  Sturl.  ii.  2  7613.21],  the  father  of  Bard  the 
Black  of  Selwaterdale,  present  at  the  battle  on  Lyrshaw-heath, 
apparently  selected  by  K.  Magnus  to  a  surgeon's  duty  after 
the  battle;  his  progeny  talented  leeches,  iii.  37o3.o5 

ATLI  THE  SLENDER  (A.  hinn  mj6vi)  [son  of  Earl  Hund- 
olf,  Landnama,  1900,  p.  ii428],  Earl  of  Gaular,  appointed 
viceroy  over  the  folk  of  Sogn  by  Halfdan  the  Black,  i.  7928- 
8o3 — resists  Earl  Hakon  Griotgarthson's  attempt  to  oust  him 
out  of  Sogn,  and  fights  with  him  in  Staffness-bay,  where  he 
received  wounds  of  which  he  died  in  Atli's-isle,  io49.21 


att — bar]  Index  I  15 

ATTI  THE  FOOL  (A.  hinn  dcelski),  a  fictitious  personage, 
of  Vermland,  his  hunt,  as  told  by  lawman  Emund,  ii.  i5617- 
157^ — the  moral  of  it,  ii.  161--162., 

AUDBIORN  (AuSbjorn),  King  of"  Firthfolk,  enters,  on  Solfi 
Klofi's  persuasion,  into  alliance  with  King  Arnvid  of  South- 
Mere  against  Harald  Hairfair,  and  fights  Harald  at  Solskel, 
where  he  fell,  i.  ioi17-io2.,0 

AUD  the  Deeply-wealthy  (Auftr  djupau^ga,  so  the  ed.,  but  all 
the  Heimskringla  MSS.,  with  the  exception  of  one,  A.  M. 
38  fol.,  where  avdgu  is  a  scribal  mistake,  favour  the  reading 
djiipirSga  =  the  Deepminded),  queen  of  Olaf  the  White, 
King  of  Dublin,  i.  n6,0 

AUDE  the  Wealthy  (AuSi  hinn  auSgi),  K.  Visbur's  father-in- 
law,  i.  285 

AUDUN  (AuSunn),  personal  name  that  Snorri,  playing  at 
etymology,  derives  from  the  name  of  Odin,  i.  iq0, 

AUDUN,  son  of  Hall,  and  father  of  Hall,  the  banner-bearer  of 
Gregory  Dayson,  iii.  4oi13 

AUDUN  the  Red,  with  Erling  Askew  on  his  Jerusalem  journey, 
distinguishes  himself  in  a  fight  with  pirates,  iii.  3721S.22 

AUN,  son  of  King  Jorund,  King  of  the  Swedes,  first'for  25 
years,  an  outlaw  in  West  Gautland  for  the  same  length  of 
time,  again  King  of  the  Swedes  for  25  years,  and  again  an 
outlaw  in  West  Gautland  for  25  years;  once  more  he  returned 
to  his  realm  and  ruled  it  for  25  years,  and,  in  addition,  ten 
years  for  each  of  his  eight  remaining  sons,  whom  he  sacrificed 
for  that  purpose  to  Odin,  attaining  altogether  an  age  of 
200  years,  but,  by  the  statements  of  the  story,  ruling  for  205 
years!  i.  4i29-446 

BALDER  (Baldr),  one  of  Odin's  '  Diar,'  abode,  on  coming  to 
Sweden,  at  Broadbeam,  i.  i62f) — in  kennings,  i7315  iii.  21305 

BALDWIN  (Baldvini),  B.  I.,  King  of  Jerusalem,  1100-iu^ 
welcomes  K.  Sigurd  at  Jerusalem,  and  accompanies  him  to 
the  Jordan,  iii.  256^-257^ — makes  a  goodly  banquet  for  King 
Sigurd,  and  gives  him  many  holy  relics,  and  amongst  them 
a  splinter  of  the  Holy  Cross,  25712.27 — arrays  his  host  for 
Sidon,  which  town  he  and  Sigurd  take,  257.,^ — Sigurd  gives 
Baldwin  the  town,  2584 

BARD  (BarSr),  a  priest  from  the  Westfirths  in  Iceland,  so 
ignorant  of  the  ritual  that  he  would  consent  to  performing 


1 6  Index  I  [bar — ber 

a  baptismal  ceremony  only  on  condition  that  Stein  Skapti- 
son  should  help  him,  ii.  2  8o13:31 
BARD  the  Black  (B.  svarti)  of  Sel-waterdale,  the  son  of  Atli, 

i  ii  -  3723-24 

BARD  COCKTAIL  (B.  standhali  or  standali),  son  of  Bryniolf, 

transfers  his  allegiance  from  K.  Eystein  Haraldson  to  his 
brother  K.  Ingi,  iii.  39230.32 — charged  with  treason  by  Erling 
Askew,  469^04 

BARD,  son  of  Guthorm  of  Reinir,  and  father  to  K.  Ingi,  Duke 
Skuli  and  Sigrid,  iii.  i8413  3362^ 

BARD,  son  of  Jokul  of  Waterdale  in  Iceland,  ii.  3731 

BARD  STANDTAIL.    See  Bard  Cocktail. 

BARD  the  White  (B.  hvfti),  a  steward  of  Earl  Hakon  Eric- 
son's  manor  of  Angrar,  ii.  4818.20 

BARELEG  (Berbeinn),  one  of  the  nicknames  of  King  Magnus 
Barefoot,  iii.  23321 

BAUGEID  (Baugei'S),  daughter  of  Day,  and  sister  of  Gregory 
Dayson,  abbess  of  Gimsey,  iii.  42i29.30 

BENEDICT,  a  follower  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  3499 

BENTEIN  (Benteinn),  son  of  Kolbein,  a  courtman  of  King 
Ingi  Haraldson,  slain  by  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  and  Magnus 
the  Blind  at  Listi,  iii.  355n.31 — his  brothers  Sigurd  and  Gyrd 
execute  fearful  revenge  for  him,  36318.22  3664.8 

BERA,  wife  of  K.  Alf  of  Sweden,  i.  36^-3 723 

BERG  (Bergr),  a  companion  of  Sigvat  the  poet  in  a  trading 
trip  to  Rouen,  ii.  3i331.32  3143-6 

BERGLIOT  (Berglj6t),  daughter  of  Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir,  and 
Thora,  the  daughter  of  Skagi  Skoptison,  i.  2477 — wedded  to 
Einar  Thambarskelfir,  247^  ii.  2224.27  iii.  io68.9 — her  dowry 
restored  to  Einar  on  his  return  from  voluntary  exile  in 
Sweden,  ii.  2ii27.2S — her  revengeful  grief  after  the  slaying  of 
her  husband  and  son  by  K.  Harald  Sigurdson,  iii.  no15.94 
— she  buries  them  in  Olaf's  Church,  in  Nidoyce,  beside  the 
tomb  of  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  1  io25.28 — her  appeal  to  Hakon 
Ivarson  frustrated  by  K.  Harald's  diplomacy,  ii218-ii4. 

BERGLIOT,  daughter  of  Halfdan,  the  son  of  Sigurd  Sow,  and 
sister  to  King  Harald  Sigurdson,  married  to  Finn  Arnison, 
iii.  1 1  i6.r 

BERGLIOT  (Berglj6tr),  son  of  Ivar  of  Elda,  fights  on  the  side 
of  K.  Ingi  in  the  battle  of  the  Elf  against  Hakon  Shoulderbroad, 


ber — bia]  Index  I  17 

and  on  his  way  home  to  Thrandheim  slays  Nicolas  Beard, 

Hakon's  rentmaster  in   Biorgvin,   41501-25 — is  slam  by  K. 

Hakon's  orders  by  Alf  Ruffian,  4i61.9 
BERGLIOT  (Berglj6t),  daughter  of  Earl  Thorir  the  Silent 

and  of  Alof  Year's-heal,  married  to  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir,  i. 

137.74.0,5 — gives  birth,  on  the  first  night  of  Yule,  to  Hakon, 

afterwards  the  Mighty,  Earl  of  Ladir,  i6i5.n 
BERGTHOR  BESTILL  (Bergp6rr  bestill),  stationed  in  the 

forehold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  353l7 
BERGTHOR  BUCK  (B.  bukkr),  iii.  424.^ 
BERGTHOR  of  Lund  (Groves,  Map),  father  to  Gudrun  one 

of  Earl  Hakon's  minions,  i.  2923 
BERGTHOR,  the  son  of  Mar  (B.  Masson),  iii.  36229.30 
BERGTHOR,  son  of  Svein  Bridgefoot,  an  accusing  witness 

against  Sigurd   Hranison  in  his   contest  at  law  with   King 

Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  iii.  2  7521.24 
BERSI.  the  son  of  Skald-Torfa  (Bersi  Skaldtorfuson),  I  eel. 

poet,  fought  in  the  forehold  of  Earl  Svein's  ship  in  the  battle 

of   Nesiar,    ii.    6o32.33 — Interchange    of   greetings    between 

him  and  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  6o33-6i15 — his  song  when  he 

came  into  King  Olaf  s  power  and  abode  in  fetters  on  board 

of  a  war-galley,  6i5.31 — served  as  court-poet  to  K.  Knut  the 

Mighty,  2  54s.20 
BERSI  the  Strong  (B.  hinn  sterki),  a  fore-castle  man  on  the 

Long-Worm,  i.  35 34 
BIADAK  (Bjaciok),  mother  of  Eystein,  son  of  Harald  Gilli, 

accompanies  him  from  Scotland  to  Norway,  iii.  36820  21 
BIADMYNIA,  daughter  of  Myrkiartan,  an  Irish  king, "taken 

to    wife    by    Sigurd,    the    son    of    Magnus    Barefoot,    iii. 

225l9-22 

BIARMS  (Bjarmar),  the  Perms,  inhabitants  of  the  country 
round  the  White  Sea,  i.  2i514  ii.  26i28  26229  2638  10 — their 
customs  relating  to  inheritance,  2 6o23.0l ,, 

BIARNI  the  Evil  (Bjarni  hinn  illi),  he  and  others  rob  and 
slay  the  friends  of  Erling  Askew,  iii.  4595.n — hanged  by  order 
of  Erling,  46o2S.30 — Thorbiorn  Skald- Askew's  commemorative 
verse  on  the  deed,  46i18 

BIARNI  GOLDBROWS-SKALD  (B.  Gullbrar-skald),  Icel. 
poet — his  laudatory  verses  on  Kalf,  the  son  of  Ami,  ii.  36i10. 

37521-m  37<J]- -,  433i7-26  iu-  Iou-20  2I3-is 

VI.  c 


1 8  Index  I  [bia — bio 

BIARNI  SIGURDSON  (B.  SigurSarson),  father  of  the  priest 
Jon  Tapard,  iii.  38523.24 

BIORGVIN  (The  men  of)  (Bjorgynjarmenn),  iii.  359^  44i24 

BIORN  the  Buck  (Bjorn  bukkr),  son  of  Nicolas  and  Asa  the 
sister  of  Erling  Askew,  Fsk.  14503  married  to  Margaret, 
daughter  of  Ami  of  Stodreim  by  Queen  Ingirid,  iii.  37o25 
4I726-°7 — h*s  fight  with  Haldor  Brynjolfson  on  the  bridges  at 
Biorgvin,  41603-41893 

BIORN  CHAPJMAN  (B.  kaupma^r)  or  Biorn  the  Sea-farer 
(B.  farma^r),  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Swanhild,  daughter 
of  King  Eystein  of  Heathmark,  i.  ii4l7 — raised  to  kingship 
over  Westfold  by  his  father,  i3i18  i34ims — resided  at  Tuns- 
berg,  was  peaceful,  and  encouraged  trade,  i3419.30 — wedded 
well  and  meetly  (wife  not  named),  had  a  son  Gudrod,  i3430.31 
— had  a  dispute  with  his  brother  Eric  for  refusing  to  pay  to 
him  the  dues  owing  to  their  father,  and  was  slain  by  Eric,  ^S^g 
— buried  in  Sea-farer's  Mound  at  Seaham,  i3524 

BIORN  CRIPPLEHAND  (B.  krepphendi),  Icel.  poet,  author 
of  a  drapa  on  Magnus  Barefoot,  in  which  he  sings  of  his 
warfare  and  great  deeds  of  valour  in  Halland,  iii.  2o819.2r — of 
the  hanging  of  Steig-Thorir,  2i34.13 — of  the  punishments  of 
the  Thrandheim  folk,  2i320.28 — of  K.  Magnus'  harrying  in 
the  South-isles  and  Ireland,  22i27-22323 — of  Magnus'  war- 
fare in  Bretland  and  of  the  death   of  Hugh  the  Valiant, 

224l0-24 

BIORN  EGILSON,  a  follower  of  Magnus  the  Blind,  iii.  3497— 
falls  at  the  battle  of  Mouth,  34921-35o1 

BIORN,  son  of  Eric  Eymundson,  King  of  Sweden  after  his 
father  for  fifty  years,  i.  i245.6 — contemporary  of  Lawman 
Thorgnyr's  father,  ii.  i2o31-i2i2 — a  powerful  ruler  and  mild 
to  his  people,  i2i25 

BIORN  POISON-SORE  (B.  eitrkveisa),  refuses  to  harbour 
overnight  Astrid  with  her  infant  son,  Olaf  Tryggvison,  but 
entertains  Hakon  her  pursuer,  i.  2  2  53032  2  261314  30 

BIORN'S  BROTHER  =  King  Hakon  the  Good,  brother  of 
Biorn  Chapman,  q.  v.,  i.  i89n 

BIORN  the  Steward  (B.  arma^r),  a  Gautlander,  distant  relative 
and  friend  of  Queen  Astrid,  who  presented  him  with  steward- 
ship in  the  Upper  Heathmark,  ii.  33815.22 — not  liked  of  King 
Olaf,  33822.24 — found  out  to  be  guilty  of  thefts  with  which  he 


bio] 


Index  I  19 


charged   others,    33804-34033 — dismissed  the   King's  service 
and  exiled,  34031-34i2 
BIORN  of  Studla,  stationed  in  the  forehold  of  the  Long-Worm, 

1     ^  K'Z 

BIORN  "THE  THICK  (B.  digri),  Marshal  at  the  Court  of 
King    Olaf   Haraldson,    occupied   the   high   seat  (ondvegi) 
opposite  to  the  King's  in  his  hall,  ii.  6700.04 — the  spokesman 
of  his  King,  76m5  785.0  8831.33 — enters  into  friendship  with 
Hialti  Skeggison,"  8519.2D— pleads  on  behalf  of  the  people  with 
King  Olaf  to  take  measures  to  bring  about  peace  with  Sweden, 
853-86ls — is  sent  by  King  Olaf  on  a  mission  to  Sweden  for 
the  purpose,  8619.27  ioi.,4- engages  Hialti  Skeggison  to  go 
with  him,  86^-87'J — as  well  as  Sigvat  Thordson,  9223-94^ — 
receives  the  King's  instructions  and  parting  gift,  and  a  ring 
for  present  and  tokens  to  Earl  Rognvald  of  West  Gautland, 
87i9-8815 — his  journey  to  Skarar  described  by  Sigvat,  922S- 
9415— well  received  at  Earl  Rognvald's  court,  8827.33  8910 — he 
lays  his  plans  before  the  Earl,  who,  through  the  urging  of  his 
wife,  promises  in  the  end  to  back  him,  89^-9 15 — tarries  very 
long  with  the  Earl,  and  getting  weary  of  waiting  takes  counsel 
with  the  Lady  Ingibiorg,  9i3.5  9.13 — accepts  the  proposal  of 
Hialti  who  volunteers  to  go  by  himself  to  Sweden  to  find  out 
the  disposition  of  the  Swede  king  towards  Norway,  9iu.28 
— learns  from  Earl  Rognvald  that  the  mission  from  Norway- 
was  not  likely  to  speed,  yet  urges  the  Earl  to  stand  by  his 
promise  to  go  and  meet  the  Swede  king,  11416-21 — ne  §oes  *n 
Earl  Rognvald's  company  to  Sweden,  visits  Upsala,  Ulleracre, 
is  the  guest  of  Lawman  Thorgnyr  and  takes  counsel  with  him, 
accompanies  him  to  the  Thing  of  Upsala  and  delivers  the 
message  he  was  the  bearer  of,  H421-n913 — after  the  Thing 
he  returns  back  to  Gautland  with  Earl  Rognvald  and  proceeds 
to  Norway,  telling  King  Olaf  the  result  of  his  mission,  i2  223.31 
— his  speech  at  Olafs  court  council  on  the  relations  of  the 
realm  of  Norway  to  Sweden  in  general  and  West  Gautland 
in  particular,   i422G-i4315 — leaves  K.  Olaf  as  he  flees  from 
Norway,  and  goes  home,  369^ — accepting  a  bribe  pressed 
upon  him  he  swears  fealty  to  King  Knut  and  Earl  Hakon, 
37728-37921 — hears  of  tne  death  of  Hakon  and  repents  him 
of  his  broken  faith  to  Olaf,  37904.^— journeys  to  Olaf,  confesses 
his  treachery  and  swears  him  fealty  to  death,  380^04 — Olaf 


2o  Index  I  [bir — bor 

makes  peace  with  him,  38o25.31— fights  and  falls  at  the  battle 
of  Sticklestead,  43225-433i— Sigvat's  song  on  him,  43327-35 

BIRCHISLE  MEN(Bjarkeyingar),the  family  of  Birchisle  whose 
chief  representative  was  Thorir  Hound,  ii.  26519.20 

BIRCHLEGS  (Birkibeinar),  the  name  given  by  the  Norwegians 

to  the  followers  of  Eystein,  son  of  K.  Eystein  Haraldson,  who, 

to  protect  themselves  against  the  cold,  wrapped  their  legs  in 

birch-bark,  hi.  47915  2i  26  48oi2  19  482i  26  483i  4  7  10  u  484s  n  w 

4853  10  23  4864  13   „  _    tt       , ,  „,  CT.  .     ...    ,,    , 

BIRGIR,  a  bailiff  of  K.  Harald  Gormson  of  Denmark,  libelled 

by  the  Icelanders  for  inhuman  treatment  of  a  shipwrecked 

Icelandic  crew  in  Denmark,  i.  2683.19 

BIRGIR  BROSA  [s.  of  Bengt,  the  son  of  Folke],  a  Swedish 
Earl,  ob.  1202,  the  fourth  husband  of  Brigida,  daughter  of 
King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3783i-3793— his  children  by  her,  379^ 
— abets  the  pretender  to  the  Norwegian  kingdom,  Eystein, 
son  of  King  Eystein  Haraldson,  478.^-4793 

BLOOD-AXE  (B16$6x),  i.  i8i25  ii.  1695 — see  Eric  Blood-axe. 

BLOT  SVEIN,  King  of  Sweden,  an  upholder  of  blood-offerings, 

iii.  285, 

BLUEMEN  (Blamenn),  Moors,  iii.  254x  28214 

BODVAR  THE  HERSIR  (BoSvarr  hersir),  son  of  Viking- Kari 
and  father  of  Alof,  the  mother  of  Gizur  the  White,  i.  3342s-29 
ii.  898.9 

BOLLI,  son  of  Thorleik  [the  son  of  Hoskuld,  the  son  of  Dale- 
Koll,  see  Laxdaelasaga],  christened  in  Norway  at  the  command 
of  King  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  33717-22 

BOLVERK  (Bolverkr),  son  of  Arnor,  Icelandic  poet,  tells  of 
Harald  the  Hardredy's  meeting  with  King  Jarisleif,  iii.  5819.20 
—and  of  his  arrival  at  Micklegarth,  5914.21 — of  the  precious 
gifts  given  by  Harald  to  King  Magnus,  875.14— of  Harald's 
war  on  Denmark  the  next  year  after  the  death  of  King  Mag- 
nus, 953.10 

BORGHILD  (Borghildr),  daughter  of  Day  Eilifson,  married  to 
Kari  King's-brother;  her  sons  Sigurd  of  Eastort  and  Day,  iii. 

33622 
BORGHILD,  daughter  of  Olaf  o'  Dale,  a  very  fair  woman,  wise 

and  full  of  lore  and  admired   of  K.  Eystein   Magnusson, 

iii.  2  7718.27 — hearing  that  men  speak  evil  of  her  and  King 

Eystein  she  clears  herself  by  a  successful  ordeal  at  Burg, 


bor — bru]  Index  I  2 1 

27814.:,, — King  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  takes  her  as  his  con- 
cubine, 27800.34 — their  son  Magnus  the  Blind,  2  7825 

BORK  (Borkr)  of  the  Firths,  stationed  in  the  forehold  on  board 
the  Long-Worm,  i.  353^ 

BOTOLF  (Botolfr)  of  Olvirshowe,  one  of  eight  lords  of 
Thrandheim  combined  to  force  Hakon  the  Good  to  join  in 
the  customs  of  heathen  feasts,  i.  i7ols 

BOVI  (B6fi),  fosterfather  of  Gauthild,  queen  of  K.  Ingiald, 
gave  fostering  to  her  son,  Olaf  Tree-shaver,  i.  63a.5 

BRAGI,  Odin's  son,  one  of  the  gods,  i.  i661  i9212  28 

BRAND  the  Bountiful  (Brandr  hinn  orvi)  [son  of  Vermund  the 

Slender],  i.  335i4-i5  .     T    ,     J 

BRAND,  son  of  Saemund,  Bishop  of  H61ar  m  Iceland,  1162- 

1201,  his  consecration,  iii.  46i20.21 
BRAND   [son  of  Thorgrim  the"  priest],   father  of  Thorleik, 

i-  335is 
BRETLANDERS  (Bretar),  Welshmen,  iii.  2  2410 

BRIGIDA,  daughter  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  given  in  marriage  to 
Ingi,  son  of  Hallstein  the  Swede  King — afterwards  to  Earl 
Karl  Sonason — then  to  Magnus  the  Swede  King — finally  to 
Earl  Birgir-Brosa,  iii.  37831-3799 

BRIGIDA,  daughter  of  Wolf  Uspakson  and  Jorun  daughter  of 
Thorberg,  her  son  Sheep- Wolf,  iii.  io4n 

BRIMILSKIAR,  a  missionary  earl  sent  by  Harald  Gormson 
to  Norway,  i.  3oi25.30 

BRISTLE  (Bursti),  a  thrall  in  the  household  of  Hakon  the  Old, 
in  Sweden,  insults  the  legate  of  Queen  Gunnhild  sent  to  secure 
the  person  of  the  infant  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  2  2  820.22 

BRODD-HELGI  [son  of  Thorgils],  a  chief  in  Weaponfirth  in 
eastern  Iceland,  i.  2  6922.23 

BRUNI,  the  father  of  Priest  Andres,  iii.  3252 

BRUSI  (Brusi)  (add  after  the  name :  at  the  place  called  Mere, 
ii.  3632-),  his  differences  with  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  on  the 
practicability  of  passing  across  Skerf-scree  up  from  Walldale 
to  Lesiar  in  Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  363„5-36614 

BRUSI,  son  of  Sigurd  the  Thick,  Earl  of  Orkney  together 
with  his  brothers  Summerlid  and  Einar  Wrongmouth,  ii. 
l693o  sr^Qi  3.6— personal  character,  17025-27  29-30- refuses  t0 
dispute  his  half-brother  Thorfin's  title  to  the  third  part  of 
Orkney,  which  the  latter  claimed  after  the  death  of  Summer- 


22  Index  I  [bru — bud 

lid,  I7IJ4Q — a  wise  and  well-beloved  ruler,  i7i22.24 — makes 
peace  between  his  brothers,  Einar  and  Thorfin,  whereby 
Thorfin  obtained  the  third  part  of  Orkney  he  claimed,  173 
31-i744 — leaves  his  dominion  to  the  rule  of  Einar  on  con- 
dition that  the  longest-lived  should  inherit  the  other,  i745.n 
— makes  again  peace  between  his  brothers,  bound  by  oaths, 
1 7622-25 — possesses  himself  of  two-thirds  of  the  Orkneys, 
according  to  covenant,  on  the  death  of  his  brother  Einar, 
17823.2* — refuses  his  brother  Thorfin's  proposal  to  share  by 
halves  with  him  the  dominion  in  Orkney,  i782s-i79is — 
seeks  protection  of  King  Olaf  Haraldson  in  Norway,  which 
he  obtains  on  condition  of  holding  his  lands  in  feof  of  the 
king,  and  being  his  liegeman,  i7919-i8i2  199^ — his  and  his 
brother  Thorfin's  further  dealing  with  King  Olaf,  1815-183 — 
their  case,  including  weregild  for  their  brother  Einar,  pub- 
licly settled  by  the  king,  i844.31 — on  parting,  King  Olaf  con- 
fers on  him  two-thirds  of  the  earldom  of  Orkney,  and  retains 
his  son  Rognvald  as  hostage,  i86u-i87l7 — his  joint  rule 
with  Thorfin  of  the  Islands,  and  death  '  a  little  after  the  fall 
of  K.  Olaf  the  Holy,'  i8720-i8826 

BRUSI,  son  of  Thormod,  a  fore-castle  man  of  Sigurd  Slembi, 
falls  in  the  battle  at  Holm-the-Gray,  iii.  36219.20 

BRYNIOLF  (Brynj61fr),  one  whose  wife  had  been  a  victim  of 
Earl  Hakon's  immorality,  i.  29230-2933 

BRYNIOLF  CAMEL,  Elephant,  iii.  i867.8  (B.  ulfaldi),  of  Ran- 
realm ;  his  speech  in  favour  of  the  provinces  claimed  by  King 
Olaf  Haraldson  owing  allegiance  rather  to  Norway  than 
Sweden,  ii.  7615-774 — his  statement  in  respect  of  the  old 
boundaries  between  Norway  and  Sweden,  7616.23 — becomes 
a  favourite  with  the  King,  7  75.8  — receives  for  a  Yule-gift  from 
him  a  gold-wrought  sword  and  the  manor  of  Vettland,  7928-8ol 
— King  Olaf  confers  on  him  the  title  of  landed-man,  and  he 
becomes  a  great  friend  of  the  King,  8o5.7 

BRYNIOLF  CAMEL,  the  younger,  father  to  Skialdvor,   iii. 

27225-2C  48  1 10-13 

BUDLI  (Bu^li),  father  of  K.  Atli  and  Brynhild,  who  was  mar- 
ried to  Gunnar,  the  son  of  Giuki.  Atli,  '  son  of  Budli,'  invited 
to  him  Gunnar  and  his  brother  Hogni,  both  of  whom  he 
treacherously  slew.  Hence  '  sons-in-law '  in  the  lines  here 
cited  should  read  '  brothers-in-law.'   The  lines  form  a  refrain 


bud — cal]  Index  I  23 

in  Illugi's  lay  of  the  kind  called  '  ancient  memories '  (forn 
minni),  iii.  d^-ix 

BUDLI,  a  legendary  sea-king,  iii.  985 

BUI  the  Thick  (Biii  digri),  son  of  Veseti  of  Borgundholm,  a 
lord  among  the  Jomsburg-vikings,  i.  27o27.2S  27i2~.28 — his  vow 
at  his  father's  and  Harald  Gormson's  grave-ale,  2  7228.30 — 
raids  the  island  of  Hod  and  brings  to  the  Jomsburg  fleet 
news  of  Earl  Hakon's  whereabouts,  2  7616.19 — his  fight  in  the 
battle  of  the  Jomsvikings,  2  7712.15  2  79n.17  2  8o3.31 — jumps 
overboard  with  his  chests  of  gold,  2  8o24.31 

BULGARS  (Bolgarar),  Bulgarians,  iii.  5713 

BURIZ,  son  of  Henry  the  Halt  and  Queen  Ingirid,  d.  of  Rogn- 
vald,  'brother  of  King  Ingi,'  iii.  437.7,3.27 

BURISLAF  (Burizleifr),  King  in  Wendland,  father  to  Geira, 
who  married  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  2  529.10 — joins  Emperor 
Otho's  expedition  against  Denmark,  255u — returns  to  Wend- 
land, 26on — causes  his  captain  Sigvaldi  to  kidnap  Svein 
Twibeard  of  Denmark,  who  is  forced  to  accept  the  Wend- 
king's  daughter  Gunnhild  in  marriage,  and  to  promise  Buris- 
laf  his  sister  Thyri  for  wife,  and  to  release  Burislaf  from  pay- 
ing any  tribute  to  Denmark,  2703^27 114  cf.  34824.26 — Thyri 
refusing  the  arrangement,  Burislaf  sends  Sigvaldi  for  her, 
marries  her  against  her  will,  with  the  result  that  she  runs 
away  from  him  after  a  few  days,  3493-3  5 o5 — negotiations 
between  him  and  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  respect  of  Thyri's  pos- 
sessions in  Wendland,  35815.21  (This  Burislav  must  be  meant 
for  Mieczyslaw,  Duke  of  Poland,  964-992,  born  931.  Neither 
Dlugoss  nor  Kadlubek,  the  Polish  chroniclers,  nor  Ditmar 
of  Merseburg  know  the  names  of  his  daughters.  The  story 
of  his  marriage  with  Thyri  is  chronologically  impossible 
as  the  tale  is  told  by  Snorri,  as  '  Burislav '  had  been  dead 
for  four  years  when  Olaf  came  to  Norway.  Mieczyslaw 
was  succeeded  by  his  son  Boleslaw  I.,  King  of  Poland, 
992-1025,  who  indeed  married  Thyri.) 

BURNING-FLOSI  (Brennu-Flosi),  son  of  Thord  Frey's  priest, 
his  name  being  derived  from  his  having  burnt  in  his  house 
Nial,  the  hero  of  Nial's  saga,  i.  33422 

CALF,  see  also  Kalf. 

CALF  CRINGLE-EYE  (Kalfr  kringluauga),  slain  by  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  3585.t; 


24  Index  I  [cal — cou 

CALF  THE  WRONG  (K.  hinn  rangi),  father  to  Jon  Cake 

and  Ivar  Gaudhank,  iii.  35810.n  36231.32 
CECILIA,  daughter  of  a  mighty  man,  married  to  King  Sigurd 

Jerusalem-farer,  whilst  Queen  Malmfrid  was  still  alive,  iii. 

3°7i-3°96 
CECILIA,  daughter  of  Gyrd  Bardson,  and  wife  of  Jon  Kauda, 

iii.  3633 

CHRIST  (Kristr),  'the  son  of  Mary,'  i.  i6628.29 — by  northern 
heathens  also  called  White  Christ  (Hvitakristr),  probably 
because  those  baptized  into  His  service  wore  white  clothes, 
albce,  on  first  taking  that  service,  and  frequently  fought 
behind  a  white  shield  with  the  Holy  Cross  marked  upon  it — 
cup  drunk  to  Christ  at  commemoration  feasts,  2  7215.16  cf. 
cup — Christ,  refused  belief  in  by  Eyvind  Rentcheek,  32813.15 — 
blasphemed  by  Raud  the  Strong,  33227.30 — things  told  about 
Him  found  past  belief  by  K.  Rcerek,  ii.  i3i10..21 — Gowk- 
Thorir  refuses  to  exchange  belief  in  his  '  own  might  and 
main'  for  that  of  Christ,  3954.13  but  later  sees  not  'why  it 
should  be  worse  to  trow  in  him  than  in  any  other  god,' 
399ao-22 — Arnliot  Cellini  takes  Olaf  Haraldson's  word  for  it 
that  Christ  is  such  as  Olaf  describes  him,  4i63.11 — Christ 
and  K.  Olaf's  holiness,  45828.29  45912 — Magnus  the  Good 
owes  to  Christ  and  his  stepmother  the  recovery  of  his 
father's  patrimony,  iii.  525-27 — Sigvat's  imprecation  to  Christ 
on  being  charged  with  desertion  from  K.  Olaf,  1 331.34 — Christ's 
men  (kristsmenn),  K.  Olaf's  watchword  to  his  army  at  Stickle- 
stead,  ii.  4oo3., 

CLEMENT,  son  of  Ari,  an  Icelander,  slain  in  the  battle  at 
Holm-the-Gray,  iii.  36230 

CONST ANTINE  MONOMACHUS,  King  of  the  Greeks,  i.e. 
Emperor  of  the  East,  1042-1054,  imprisons  Harald  the  Hard- 
redy,  iii.  7310.12 — escape  of  Harald  to  the  Vaerings,  who  are 
enraged  with  the  King,  and  lay  hold  on  him  and  put  out  his 
eyes,  ii.  73si-74i9 

(Here  Snorri  ascribes  to  Constantine  the  fate  that  befell  his 
predecessor,  Michael  V.,  Kalaphates,  whom  Zoe,  as  her 
adopted  son,  raised  to  the  purple  in  1041,  and  who  was 
deposed  again  in  1042,  and  blinded  in  a  popular  rising, 
April  2 1  st.) 

COURLANDERS,  iii.  3o16  u624 


dal — day]  Index  I  25 

DALE-DWELLERS,  Dale-folk  (Dales,  ii.  203^  should  read, 
Dale-folk)  (Dcelir),  inhabitants  of  the  Eastern-Dales,  Norway, 

ii.  201-  33913  iii-  25^n 

DAN  THE  PROUD  (Danr  hinn  mikillati),  King  of  the  Danes, 
the  first  king  in  Denmark  buried  with  precious  things  and 
wealth,  i.  403.07 — Denmark  named  after  him,  3io4.o5-423 

DANES,  Danefolk,  Danehost,  Danemen,  Dane-people  (Danir, 
etc.),  i.  4o3  42«  45-'2  24  479  484  s  19  5J30  53i2i383n  Il63o  x52i9  29 
1569  i57i-  1583  14  I74i9  i788  l822s  2363  241H  268s  27i18 

347o6  33    3673  5  12— «■    IJ26    I221  23    x3ll  13  17    *  62S  29   l8l    2«4   14 
425  7523  I279  !57l6  30  l8727  3I3l8  3I623  30  32°1  3305  12  44925— 

iii.  282,,  22  3013  384  399  4724  4933  782i  79io  92i2  94i  95s  21 

974  u  9817    IOOT  15  25  IOI15    I202S    I27s  00  12800    13134    J323  17 
I349   22     !367    8    11    IS    24     I37l8    25     M420     ^SO     r4724    29     ^U 

18713  19  '9830  T99i  2684  285io  3382  3527  36l27  3623  46331 

465]9  21  4705  47I9  14  16  19  47310  47723         .        ,  ., 

DANP,  son  of  Rig,  who  was  the  first  who  in  the  tongue  of  the 
Danes  was  titled  King,  i.  3ru.15 

DAVID,  King  of  Scotland,  D.  I.  (n 24-1 153),  entertains  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  and  holds  him  of  great  account,  iii.  337is-20 

DAY  (Dagr),  King  of  Westmere,  i.  7oG 

DAY  EILIFSON,  a  landed-man  of  the  Wick  in  K.  Magnus 
Barefoot's  service,  iii.  21400— joins  King  Magnus  Barefoot 
in  his  expedition  to  Ireland^  2  38os.o9 — one  of  the  last  to  flee 
after  the  King's  death,  242^,0— referred  to  as  a  great  swimmer, 
3oox.2— his  children :  Borghlld,  33600.03  Gregory,  Water- Worm, 
35 26  Sigrid,  41930-4 2 °i  Gyrid,  42o3.4  Baugeid,  42109 

DAY,  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Ashild,  the  daughter  of  Ring 
Dayson,  i.  ii418.o0 — proclaimed  king  by  his  father,  i3i19 

DAY,  son  of  Kari  Kingsbrother,  and  Borghild,  the  daughter  of 
Day  Eilifson,  iii.  33604 

DAY,  son  of  Red,  ii.  339^— Biorn  the  Steward's  speech  against 
him,  339lu.ls— summoned  to  King  Olaf,  who  frees  him  of  the 
charges  brought  against  him  by  Biorn,  33925.2s- -knows  how 
to  read  a  person's  character  and  to  bring  home  crime,  as  in  the 
case  of  Biorn  Steward,  34o14.34 — joins  the  King's  company, 
34o31 — at  a  feast  given  by  Thorir  Olivirson  Day  instructs  the 
King  how  to  find  out  that  Thorir  was  a  traitor,  proof  of 
which  the  King  discovers,  and  has  Thorir  slain,  3425"34324 

DAY,  son  of  King  Ring  whom  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  drove  away 


26  Index  I  [day — dun 

from  his  kingdom  in  the  Uplands,  ii.  io822.24 — domiciled  with 
his  father  in  Sweden,  39218.26 — King  Olaf  sends  him  word 
to  join  him  and  promises  him  dominion  in  Norway  if  success- 
ful— he  goes  to  meet  Olaf  with  twelve  hundred  men,  39226- 
39312 — his  character,  3936.10 — appointed  by  Olaf  to  be  on 
the  right  hand  of  his  banner,  4oo18.20 — sets  up  his  banner  at 
the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  431 12-14 — Day's  brunt,  4341.14 — he 
is  himself  set  upon  and,  being  overborne  by  sheer  might, 
turns  to  flight  back  to  Sweden,  434u-i6  437i9-24  443s 
DAY  THE  WISE  (D.  hinn  spaki),  or  the  Mighty  (hinn  riki), 
son  of  K.  Dyggvi,  succeeded  him  in  the  rule  of  the  Swedes, 
i.  3127.23 — so  wise  that  he  'knew  the  speech  of  fowl,'  died 
by  mischance  on  an  expedition  in  revenge  for  a  pet  sparrow, 
3x3o"322i — father  of  Daybright  and  ancestor  of  the  Daylings, 

3613-14 

DAYBRIGHT  (DageiSr),  d.  of  K.  Day  the  Wise,  wife  of  K. 
Alrek  of  Sweden,  and  mother  to  King  Alf,  i.  3612.14 

DAYLINGS  (Doglingar),  descendants  of  K.  Day  the  Wise  of 
Sweden,  i.  3613.14 

DIXIN,  the  chief  counsellor  of  Geira,  brings  about  a  friendly 
meeting  between  Olaf  Tryggvison  and  her,  resulting  in  their 
marriage,  i.  252^ 

DOMALD  (D6maldi),  son  of  Visbur  by  his  first  (unnamed) 
wife,  'and  his  stepmother  let  sing  unluck  at  him,'i.  2810.n — 
succeeded  his  father  in  the  rule  of  the  Swedes,  who,  holding 
him  guilty  of  the  prevailing  scarcity,  slew  him  in  the  third 
year  of  his  reign,  2  98.33 

DOMAR  (Domarr),  son  of  Domald,  had  for  wife  Drott,  the 
daughter  of  K.  Danp,  i.  3i13.i5 — succeeded  his  father  in  the 
rule  of  the  Swedes,  reigned  in  peace  and  plenty,  and  died  in 
his  bed  at  Upsala,  and  was  burnt  in  the  meads  of  Fyri,  3o7.26 

DOTTA,  d.  of  Thorkel  Gusher,  punished  by  K.  Harald  Sigurd- 
son  for  making  fun  of  his  naval  power,  iii.  95a3-963 

DRIFT  (Drifa),  daughter  of  Snow  the  Old,  K.  of  Finland,  wife 
of  Vanland,  K.  of  the  Swedes,  i.  2  626-2  718 

DROTT  (Drott),  d.  of  Danp  the  son  of  Rig,  wife  of  Domar  and 
mother  to  Dyggvi,  K.  of  the  Swedes,  i.  31^ — she  was  sister 
of  K.  Dan  the  Proud,  3124.25 

DUNGAD,  Earl  of  Caithness,  married  to  Groa,  d.  of  Thorstein 
the  Red,  their  daughter  Grelad,  ii.  169^3 


dun — edw]  Index  I  27 

DUNIMIZ,  sister's  son  of  Rettibur  the  Wend  King,  in  company 
with  whom  he  makes  a  descent  on  Kings'  Rock,  hi.  32  630 — 
rows  with  some  of  his  uncle's  host  round  Hising,  and  so 
comes  down  upon  the  town,  327^3 — priest  Andres  gives  him 
a  finger-ring,  332^ 

DURNIR,  a  dwarf,  i.  2614 

DYGGVI,  son  of  Domar  and  his  successor  in  the  rule  of  the 
Swedes,  i.  30o9.32 — was  the  first  of  the  rulers  of  the  Swedes 
who  bore  the  title  of  King  (cf.  Drottnar),  which  descended 
to  him  from  his  maternal  great-grandfather  Rig,  i.  3i13.15 

EADRIC  STREONA  (Heinrekr  Strj6na),  kills  King  Edmund 
Ironside  at  Oxford,  a.d.  1016,  ii.  2  7l7.ls 

EAST-COUNTRIES  (Men  of  the)  ( Austrvegsmenn),  inhabitants 

of  the  eastern  and  southern  littoral  of  the  Baltic,  i.  5312  hi-  3°i7 

11 604.05 
EASTFIRTHER   (austfirzkr),  of  a  person  hailing  from  the 

quarter  of  the  Eastfirths  in  Iceland,  ii.  i77l7 
EASTMEN  (Norwegians),  iii.  ioi18  3393  6  9 
EAST- WAYS  (folk  of  the)  =  East-countries  (Men  of  the). 
EAST- WENDS,  see  Wends. 

EDGAR  (Eatgeirr),  son  of  Ethelred  II.  and  Qu.  ^Elfnasd,  ii.  2i29 
EDLA,  daughter  of  an  earl  in  Wendland,  King  Olaf  the  Swede's 
'  bond-maiden '  and  concubine,  mother  of  Edmund,  Astrid 
and  Holmfrid,  ii.  i393.s 
EDMUND  (Saint),  King  of  East  Anglia,  855-870,  ii.  i229.31 
EDMUND  (Jatmundr),  brother  to  K.  Athelstan,  King  of  Eng- 
land, 940-946,  an  enemy  of  Northmen,  his  dealings  with  Eric 
Bloodaxe,  i.  15313-15417 
EDMUND  (Eadmundr)  IRONSIDE,  son  of  Ethelred  II.  and 
Queen  ^Elffked,  ii.  2i26.29 — succeeds  his  father  'jointly  with 
his  brother  Edward  the  Confessor,'  Snorri's  mistake,  ii.  i820.22 
— makes  peace  with  King  Knut  on  the  terms  of  ruling  over 
one  half  of  England,  2  715.lt. — slain  by  Eadric  Streona  (at  Ox- 
ford, a.d.  1016),  2  7l7.ls 
EDWARD  THE  GOOD  (JatvarSr  hinn  g63i),  i.e.  E.  the  Con- 
fessor, K.  of  England,  1042-1066,  son  of  Ethelred  II.  and 
Queen  Emma,  succeeds  'jointly  with  his  brother  Edmund 
Ironside  to  the  kingdom'  of  their  father,  ii.  i821.22  2i29  iii. 
25i4   IS5iM6 — married  Gyda,  daughter  of  Earl  Godwin  by 
his  wife  Gyda,  daughter  of  Thorgils  Sprakalegg,  ii.  326m4  iii. 


28  Index  I  [edw — egi 

I55is-i9 — his  attitude  towards  Magnus  the  Good  when  claim- 
ing, on  treaty  grounds,  Hordaknut's  share  in  the  kingdom 
of  England,  hi.  5io3-5310  l6li-4  23 — William  Bastard  founds 
his  claim  to  England  on  his  relationship  to  Edward,  i8o7.10 

EDWY  (Eatvigr),  son  of  Ethelred  II.  and  Qu.  ^FJffked,  ii.  2i29 

EGIL  (Egill),  a  noble  of  West  Gautland,  fosterfather  to  Astrid, 
the  daughter  of  K.  Olaf  of  Sweden,  ii.  i3919.2i 

EGIL,  son  of  Aslak  of  Aurland,  a  landed-man,  married  to  Ingi- 
biorg,  daughter  of  Ogmund  Thorbergson,  and  sister  to  Skopti 
of  Gizki,  joins  Steig-Thorir  and  Svein  Haraldson  in  rebellion 
in  the  Uplands  in  Norway  against  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii. 
2O920  27 — the  band,  after  marauding  through  Raumsdale 
and  South-Mere  (2io3.5),  held  for  Thrandheim,  where  they 
had  a  successful  engagement  with  Sigurd  Woolstring  (2io5.20), 
but  K.  Magnus  taking  up  the  pursuit  they  fled  to  Halogaland, 
where  Thorir  and  Egill  were  overtaken  at  Hesiatown  and 
hanged,  210^-213^ 

EGIL,  the  Foe  of  Tunni  (E.  Tunnadolgr),  son  of  Aun,  K. 
of  the  Swedes;  his  contests  with  the  thrall  Tunni,  alliance 
with  K.  Frodi  the  Bold  of  Denmark,  and  death  by  being 
gored  by  a  wild  bull,  i.  449-46 

EGIL,  son  of  Hall  o'  Side,  goes,  in  obedience  to  a  message 
from  King  Olaf  Haraldson  by  Thorarin  Nefiolfson,  to  Nor- 
way and  stays  with  King  Olaf,  ii.  24919.29 — is  refused  return 
to  Iceland  the  next  season  by  King  Olaf,  until  the  result  of 
Gellir  Thorkelson's  mission  to  the  island  should  be  known, 
and  is  detained  in  a  manner  that  '  savoured  of  unfreedom,' 
274^-2752 — incurs  K.  Olaf's  wrath  by  setting  free  distressed 
prisoners  of  war,  but  ultimately  regains  the  King's  favour, 

328S-27 

EGIL,  son  of  Skallagrim,  father  to  [Thorgerd]  the  mother  of 

Kiartan  Olafson,  i.  334l7 
EGIL,  brother  of  Volund,  a  famous  archer,  i.  2  2o4 
EGIL  WOOLSARK  (E.  ullserkr),  a  yeoman,  once  upon  a  time 
the  standard-bearer  of  K.  Harald  Hairfair;  his  stout-hearted 
speech  at  K.  Hakon  the  Good's  council  of  war,  i.  i752G-I76n 
— his  speech,  prophetic  of  his  death,  i7618.23 — his  stratagem 
at  the  battle  of  Frasdisberg  or  Rast-Kalf,  i779.12 18.32  cf.  i782.5 
— leading  Hakon's  men  he  got  into  hand-to-hand  fight  with 
Gamli  Eric's  son,  wounded  him  sorely,  but  fell  himself,  i78.29- 


eil — ein]  Index  I  29 

i794 — laid,  with  all  his  men,  in  a  ship  taken  from  the  enemy 
and  buried  in  a  howe  (at  Fraedisberg)  by  K.  Hakon's  orders, 
180-0 

EILIF  (Eilffr),  Earl  in  Sleswick,  gives  a  great  banquet  to  King 
Sigurd  arriving  at  Sleswick  on  his  return  journey  from  Jerusa- 
lem, iii.  2  62u.10 

EILIF,  married  to  Ragnhild,  d.  of  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty, 
their  s.  Earl  Worm  (for  Orm),  married  to  Sigrid,  d.  of  Earl 
Finn  Arnison,  iii.  35i5(5  37iSii 

EILIF  THE  GAUTLANDER  (E.  gauzki),  a  bailiff  appointed 
by  King  Olaf  the  Swede  over  the  northern  part  of  Ranrealm, 
ii.  76o.s — keeps  spying  on  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  move- 
ments in  the  Wick,  and  has  a  band  of  thirty  men  hovering 
about  the  edge  of  the  Marklands,  779.13 — comes  with  a  large 
following  to  meet  King  Olaf  at  a  palaver  at  which  he  is  be- 
trayed by  Brynjolf  Camel,  and  slain  by  the  Captain  of  K. 
Olaf's  Guests,  Thorir  the  Long,  771(5  789 

EILIF,  Earl,  s.  of  Rognvald  Earl  of  West-Gautland  and  Ingi- 
biorg,  the  d.  of  Tryggvi,  ii.  15430 — captain  over  the  '  land-war- 
ders '  of  King  Jarisleif,  iii.  58o-.30  59^ 

EINAR  (Einarr),  see  Turf-Einaf.' 

EINAR,  married  to  Helga,  daughter  of  Priest  Andres,  iii.  325n 
— brings  to  Castle  Church,  Kings'  Rock,  the  news  of  the 
Wend  King  Rettibur's  descent  on  the  town,  32  7s.u 

EINAR,  son  of  Ari  of  Reek-knolls,  iii.  35620 

EINAR,  son  of  Eyolf,  and  brother  to  Gudmund  the  Mighty  of 
Maddermead,  prevents  by  a  great  speech  his  own  brother  and 
his  followers  from  complying  with  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  re- 
quest to  the  Icel.  Althing,  to  cede  him  the  island  of  Grimsey, 
ii.  24323-24430 — his  speech  the  cause  why  the  chiefs  of  Iceland, 
invited  to  go  to  Norway  to  meet  King  Olaf,  did  not  deem  it 
safe  to  act  on  that  invitation,  2452(3.30 

EINAR,  son  of  Guthorm  Graybeard,  and  brother  to  Thora, 
the  mother  of  K.  Sigurd,  s.  of  Harald  Gilli,  a  well-born  and 
wealthy  Uplander,  iii.  38in.10 — his  and  his  brother  Andres' 
dealings  with  the  priest  Richard  381,7-385 ,,; 

EINAR  of  Hordland  (E.  hor^ski),  stationed  in  the  forehold  on 
board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35319 

EINAR  JINGLESCALE  (E.  sicalaglamm),  the  son  of  Helgi, 
an  Icel.  poet,  author  of  the  poem  called  Gold-lack,  i.  2o631- 


3<d  Index  I  [ein 

20733     2l6-2f21U    24I29-2422    8-27     245l3-20    2464.12    18-27     2552l" 
25^4  15-23  30"2 5 74"2 596-30  ,       .         ,  .        , 

EINAR,  son  of  Laxe-Paul,  his  home  rifled  during  his  absence 
by  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  35820.30 — tells  himself  to  Eric 
Oddson,  the  historian,  the  story  of  Sigurd's  robberies  and 
manslaughters,  3593.5 — falls  with  his  master,  K.  Sigurd  Harald- 
son,  in  Biorgvin,  1155,  38o14.15 

EINAR,  son  of  Ogmund  of  Sand,  in  Halogaland,  provides 
Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  with  provisions,  while  in  hiding  in 
Halogaland  from  K.  Ingi  Haraldson,  iii.  35626-2s 

EINAR  SKULISON  (E.  Skiilason),  Icelandic  poet,  cited  as 
authority  on  events  that  happened  in  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer's  journey  to  the  East:  his  stay  in  England,  iii.  24910.1S — 
his  stay  at  Galizialand,  24924.32 — his  arrival  in  Jerusalem, 
2562i"257s — his  handing  over  of  Sidon  to  King  Baldwin  of 
Jerusalem,  2  5810.1S — on  the  cruelty  of  Thora,  mother  of  King 
Sigurd,  to  Kolbein,  302l7.2(3— on  King  Magnus  the  Blind's 
dilemma  at  Biorgvin,  3233.7 — on  King  Harald  Gilli's  battles 
in  Denmark,  334n.o2 — on  King  Magnus,  fourth  son  of  Harald 
Gilli,  368^-3693 — on  King  Eystein's  victory  at  Leikberg  over 
the  people  of  Ranrealm,  and  the  dwellers  of  Hising,  3746-22 — 
on  the  defeat  of  Earl  Harald,  the  son  of  Maddad,  by  King 
Eystein  Haraldson,  3754.12 — on  Eystein's  victories  at  Apar- 
dion,  Hartlepool,  Whitby,  Skarpskerries,  Pulwyke  and  Lang- 
ton,  375i6-3762s — on  the  character  of  King  Sigurd  Haraldson, 
3786-i5 — on  the  slaying  of  King  Eystein,  396^3 — on  the  defeat 
of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  by  K.  Ingi  at  the  battle  in  the  Elf, 
4I4is-35 — his  flock  on  Gregory  Dayson  called  Elf-staves, 
4I^i  2 — on  the  ultimate  whereabouts  of  Olafs  sword,  Hneitir, 

429-w 
EINAR   THAMBARSKELFIR   (E.    fambarskelfir),   son   of 

Eindrid  Styrkarson,  i.  2i529  ii.  2  214.16 — married  to  Bergliot, 

the  daughter  of  Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir,  i.  2478  ii.   2  224.26  iii. 

io68.10 — stationed  in  the  main  hold  on  board  the  Long-Worm, 

in  the  battle  of  Svold,  i.  35321.23 — his  feats  of  shooting,  37i3.30 

ii.  2  217.21 — his  famous  repartee  to  the  King,  on  his  bow  being 

shot  in  sunder,  i.  37i21.23 — receives  truce  of  life  from  Earl 

Eric  after  the  battle  of  Svold,  and  accompanies  the  Earl  to 

Norway,  ii.  2  213.17 — his  prowess  and  lordly  condition,  2  2l7.24 — 

his  wealth  and  power  in  consequence  of  his  alliance  by  mar- 


eix]  Index  I  31 

riage  with  the  Earls  Eric  and  Svein,  2  2o4.31 — left  by  Earl 
Eric,  on  his  departure  for  England,  in  charge  of  his  son 
Hakon,  as  ruler  of  Norway,  2  617.22 — summons  a  war-levee 
from  Earl  Hakon's  dominion,  to  resist  the  advance  of  Olaf 
Haraldson,  4614..,3 — hearing  that  Orkdale  had  fallen  into 
Olaf  s  power,  he  sends  messengers  to  Earl  Svein,  to  warn  him 
of  Olafs  approach,  4827-494 — sent  for  by  Earl  Svein,  Einar 
holds  a  council  of  war  with  him  in  Frosta,  and  lays  down 
plans  for  attacking  Olaf,  4907-5013  $1^ — marches  together 
with  Earl  Svein,  at  the  head  of  a  large  host  on  Nidoyce, 
which  place  he  burns  to  the  ground,  Olaf  seeking  safety  in 
flight,  53007 — joins  Earl  Svein's  expedition  against  Olaf, 
which  terminated  in  the  engagement  off  Nesiar,  555.19  6o2G.31 — 
after  the  loss  of  that  battle  he  counsels  Earl  Svein  to  flee 
from  Norway  to  Sweden,  and  joins  the  Earl  in  the  flight,  62 
u.0{, — is  friendlily  received  by  King  Olaf  the  Swede,  6618.21 — 
remains  with  the  Swede,  well-beholden,  till  the  latter's  death, 
when  he  makes  overtures  for  peace  with  Olaf  of  Norway,  who 
reinstates  Einar  in  all  his  possessions  in  Thrandheim,  includ- 
ing Bergliofs  dowry,  2ii15.31 — his  journey  to  England,  meet- 
ing with  Hakon  Ericson,  his  brother-  (or,  rather,  nephew-)  in- 
law, and  King  Knut  the  Mighty,  2353.3 — ^s  pilgrimage  to 
Rome,  and  return  home,  2358.n — sits  in  quiet  at  home  in 
great  state,  yielding  no  service  to  King  Olaf  Haraldson, 
3ioimt — on  K.  Knut  appointing  Hakon  Ericson  Earl  of 
Norway,  Einar  becomes  the  Earl's  chief  adviser,  being  loaded 
with  gifts  and  honours,  Knut  promising  him  even  a  high 
dignity  (earldom  of  Norway,  45200.04)  in  the  future,  3492i,-35°s 
— denounced  as  traitor  to  K,  Olaf  by  Biorn  the  Marshal, 
38i0 — has  the  chief  rule  of  Outer  Thrandheim  after  Earl 
Hakon's  death,  38814.lfl — mindful  of  Knut's  promises,  he  goes 
west  to  England  to  claim  fulfilment  of  them,  388^,-389, — 
the  King's  disappointing  answer,  3892.n — sails  back  to  Nor- 
way, where  he  arrives  after  the  fall  of  K.  Olaf,  3S912.o4  4521022 
— he  is  the  first  of  Norw.  chiefs  to  uphold  the  holiness  of  King 
Olaf,  45224.26 — visited  by  Bp.  Grimkelin  connection  with  that 
matter,  45418-455ir, — his  discourtesy  to  Alfiva  for  slighting 
certain  tokens  of  K.  Olafs  holiness,  45624.27 — he  and  Kalf 
Arnison  combine  to  set  up  as  king  of  Norway  Magnus,  son 
of  Olaf  the  Holy,  4664-467.4 — gains,  while  Kalf  Arnison  loses, 


32  Index  I  [ein 

favour  with  K.  Magnus,  iii.  i924-2o3 — disapproves,  much  to 
the  King's  resentment,  of  Magnus  appointing  Svein  Wolfson 
Earl  of  Denmark,  3027.32 — refuses  to  aid  Harald  Hardredy 
towards  possessing  himself  of  the  kingdom  of  Denmark 
(knowing,  no  doubt,  that  Magnus  had  bequeathed  it  to  Svein 
Wolfson),  923.28 — brings  the  body  of  Magnus  to  Nidoyce, 
922o"93" — his  might,  wealth,  family  relations,  io63.18 — his 
strained  relations  with  K.  Harald,  io65.6 — his  advocacy  of 
the  cause  of  the  people  against  Harald's  masterfulness,  io722- 
io8.,s — slain  by  Harald's  men  in  his  council  chamber,  1093- 
iio", — buried  in  Olafs  church,  beside  the  tomb  of  K.  Mag- 
nus, uo25.2S — Hakon  Ivarson's  intention  to  avenge  his  death 
defeated  by  Harald's  diplomacy,  ii3-ii493 

EINAR  WRONGMOUTH  (E.  rangmunnf),  son  of  Sigurd  the 
Thick,  Earl  of  Orkney,  ob.  1020;  set  to  rule  with  his  brothers 
over  Orkney  when  his  father  went  to  his  last  war,  ii.  i6933- 
i7o6 — personal  description,  i7o25.29 — refuses,  on  his  father's 
death,  to  give  up  to  Thorfin,  his  brother,  one  third  of  the 
islands  of  which  he  possesses  himself,  i7i!.12 — his  war  raids 
and  unpopular  rule,  i7i1o..22  I74i3-i5 — his  dealings  with  the 
spokesmen  of  his  subjects,  Amundi  and  Thorkel,  17127- 
J73io — his  tyranny  drives  many  of  his  subjects  away,  173x7-22 
— Thorfin  renews,  and  follows  up  with  an  armed  host,  his 
claim  to  one  third  of  Orkney,  which  he  obtains  by  the  aid  of 
Brusi,  17322-1744 — obtains  rule  over  his  brother  Brusi's  share 
on  condition  that  the  longest  lived  of  the  two  inherit  as  his 
own  the  other's  share,  i74M1 — his  defeat  in  Ulfreksfirth  at 
the  hands  of  the  Erse  King  Konofogor,  ii.  i3712.23  I74is-22 
— slays  Eyvind  Urochs-horn,  King  Olafs  friend,  17423-1757 
— drives  from  the  islands  Thorfin's  tax-gatherer,  renewing 
enmity  with  his  brother,  1753-1762 — peace  again  settled  be- 
tween Einar  and  Thorfin,  1 7619.29 — murder  of  Einar  by  Thor- 
kel Fosterfather  at  Sandwick,  i7630-i7812  i9224 — his  domin- 
ion, one  third  of  Orkney,  appropriated  after  his  death  by  K. 
Olaf  of  Norway,  i8415.20 

EINDRID,  son  of  Einar  Thambarskelfir  and  Bergliot,  daughter 
of  Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir,  ii.  2  227 — K.  Knut  holds  out  a 
promise  to  him  of  being  made  Earl  of  Norway,  on  the 
strength  of  which  promise  father  and  son  laid  claim  to  the 
earldom  on  Hakon  Ericson's  death,  ii.  35o4.G  3881S.19— has  to 


ein — elf]  Index  I  33 

wife  Sigrid,  daughter  of  Ketil  Kalf  and  Gunnhild — his  char- 


acter, iii.  io610.ls — is  stationed  by  Einar  outside  K.  Har. 
Sigurdson's  council  chamber  at  a  folk-mote  in  order  to  defend 
him,  io9.M — is  slain  by  K.  Harald's  men,  iiOj — buried  in 
Olafs  church  beside  the  tomb  of  King  Magnus,  no26.28 — 
Hakon  Ivarson's  intention  to  avenge  him  defeated  by  Harald's 
diplomacy,  H4x-28 

EINDRID  of  Gautdale,  iii.  35612 

EINDRID  of  Gimsar,  son  of  Styrkar,  and  father  of  Einar 
Thambarskelfir,  i.  2i52S  ii.  2  215.10 — commands  his  own  ship 
in  Olaf  Tryggvison's  expedition  to  Wendland,  i.  363^ 

EINDRID  HEATHFILLV  (E.  herSafylja),  coming  upon  K. 
Sigurd,  son  of  K.  Sigurd  Haraldson,  and  Markus  o'  Shaw,  he 
delivers  them  for  execution,  iii.  45827 

EINDRID,  son  of  Jon  Suetneb,  saves  King  Eystein  on  board 
his  ship  from  the  pursuit  of  his  brother,  K.  Ingi,  iii.  39415.18 — 
fights  on  the  side  of  K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  in  the  battle 
of  the  Elf,  4o78.9  4085  4145 — when  King  Ingi  is  on  the 
point  of  granting  him  pardon  a  son  of  Howard  Butterbread 
gives  him  his  death-wound,  4i56.14 

EINDRID  THE  YOUNG  (E.  ungi),  goes  to  Jerusalem  with 
Erling  Askew,  iii.  37i16.18 — after  sailing  through  Norfisound, 
he  parts  company  with  Erling,  37i.20.28 — t0^'  on  n*s  return  to 
Norway,  the  story  as  to  what  ultimately  became  of  K.  Olafs 
sword  Hneitir,  4283-429.22 — allies  himself  with  King  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad  against  Erling  Askew,  44 in — fights  in  the 
battle  of  Ve-isle,  44422-4460 — -takes  in  hand,  with  other  chiefs, 
the  lead  of  Hakon's  partisans  after  his  fall,  leaving  the  ships 
and  going  to  the  Uplands,  44715.19 — slain  by  Erling's  men 
after  the  fall  of  Earl  Sigurd  Havardson,  45514.1G 

ELDIARN,  an  Icelander,  sings  in  dispraising  humour  of  the 
valour  of  Gifford  the  Welshman,  iii.  2  2931-2  3os  16.24 

ELFBIDERS  ( Elfar  byggjar),  inhabitants  of  lands  by  the  Gautelf, 
iii.  2i51 

ELFGEIR  ('Alfgeirr),  seizes  the  whole  of  Vingulmark  (one 
half  of  which  Elfhild,  wife  of  Gudrod  the  Hunter-king,  and 
mother  of  Olaf  Geirstead-Elf,  had  brought  her  husband  as  a 
marriage  dowry),  'and  set  thereover  King  Gandalf  his  son.' 
He  and  Gandalf  seize  the  most  part  of  Raumrick  from  Olaf 
Geirstead-Elf,  i.  7218.23 

VI.  I) 


34  Index  I  [elf — emu 

ELFGRIMS  (Elfargrimar),  inhabitants  of  lands  on  the  Gautelf, 

hi.  2i515  23  22033  32in  48o13  (=  Elfbiders). 
ELFHILD  ('Alfhildr),  daughter  of  Alfarin,  King  of  Elfhome, 

the  first  wife  of  Gudrod  the  Hunter-king,  i.  7o27.28 — her  death, 

7°32 

ELFSI,  see  Alfling. 

ELIZABETH,  daughter  of  King  Jarisleif,  hi.  7623.24 — see  Ellisif. 

ELLA,  King  of  Northumberland,  vanquisher  of  Ragnar  Lod- 
brok  (F.A.S.,  i.  280-283),  his  kindred:  Englishmen,  ii.  i613 

ELLISIF,  daughter  of  Jarisleif,  King  of  Holmgarth,  and  Ingi- 
gerd,  d.  of  K.  Olaf  of  Sweden,  scorns  Harald  Sigurdson's 
love,  iii.  7533-76! — given  in  marriage  to  him  on  his  return  from 
Greece,  7622.29  7720.22 — ner  children,  9623.25 — accompanies 
Harald  on  his  expedition  to  England,  i6521 — is  left  in  the 
Orkneys,  i664 — returns  from  the  west  to  Norway  with  her 
stepson  Olaf  and  Ingigerd  her  daughter,  i836.8 

EMMA,  daughter  of  Richard  I.,  Duke  of  Normandy,  married  1., 
Ethelred  II.,  King  of  England,  whom  she  bore  four  (!)  sons,  ii. 
2i26.29  iii.  2515.16  i5514.15 — 2.,  Knut  the  Mighty,  their  children, 
ii.  2  712.14  iii.  25l7.20 — she  issues  forged  letters  under  royal  seal 
authorizing  Earl  Wolf,  son  of  Sprakalegg,  to  have  her  son 
Hordaknut  elected  King  of  Denmark,  ii.  3i621-3i720 — inter- 
ceeds  in  vain  with  King  Knut  for  her  son  and  Earl  Wolf, 
3 J  ^M9 — advises  her  son  to  leave  his  case  unconditionally  in 
his  father's  hands,  3i820.24 

(Snorri's  statement,  ii.  2i24  26  that  Emma  was  '  the  sister '  of 
two  Earls  of  Normandy,  '  William  and  Robert,'  is  incorrect, 
her  brothers  being  Richard  II.  (996-1026)  and  Robert  Abp  of 
Rouen,  990-1037.) 

EMUND  of  Skarar,  lawman  in  West-Gautland,  his  quality  and 
character,  ii.  i553.n — undertakes  to  plead  the  cause  of  his 
people  before  King  Olaf  the  Swede,  i55n-3i — goes  to  East- 
Gautland,  where  he  draws  to  his  side  many  mighty  kindred, 
1 5  53i" 1 5  65 — proceeds  to  Swede-realm,  and  comes  to  Upsala, 
where  he  meets  the  King,  i56ti.16 — tells  the  King  some 
enigmatic  news  from  Gautland,  156^-15733 — lures  by  a 
fictitious  case  at  law  a  judgment  from  the  King  whereby  he 
condemns  his  own  conduct  to  the  King  of  Norway,  158^ — 
departs  suddenly  from  the  King's  court,  i5832-i592l? — has  to 
leave  with  the  Up-Swedes,  instead  of  the  people  of  Gautland, 


emu — eri]  Index  I  35 

the  election  of  a  king  of  Swede-realm,  i6421-i6510— predicts 
that  the  succession  of  kings  in  Sweden  will  pass  out  of  the  old 
line  of  the  Ynglings,  i6510.10 

EMUND,  natural  son  of  King  Olaf  the  Swede  with  Edla, 
daughter  of  a  Wendish  earl,  ii.  i393.s— brought  up  in  Wend- 
land  among  his  mother's  kin,  i3916.19 — King  in  Sweden,  when 
Magnus  the  Good  set  out  from  Garthrealm  on  the  conquest 
of  Norway,  hi.  4S — lends  aid  to  his  kinsman  Svein  Wolfson, 
K.  of  Denmark,  against  Magnus  the  Good,  331(3.o7 

ENGLISH  (The),  Englishmen  (Englar),  i.  n82<J  26i31  ii.  i229 
i531  252^  443T  hi.  i672S  i7i31  1763  6  10  l7  i773i  I78w  27   . 

ERIC  (Eirikr),  son  of  Agnar,  King  of  Westfold,  father  of  Hild, 
the  wife  of  Eystein  King  of  Raumrick  and  Westfold,  i.  6817.20 

ERIC,  son  of  K.  Agni,  King  of  the  Swedes  together  with  his 
brother  Alrek,  i.  35^30 

ERIC  ARNISON,  husband  of  Skialdvor,  daughter  of  Nicolas, 
the  son  of  Sigurd  Hranison,  hi.  48i1Jwl — warns  Nicolas  his 
father-in-law  in  vain  of  an  imminent  attack  by  the  Birchlegs, 
48i04-48209 

ERIC  BIODASKALLI  [Bioda-skull,  ii.  89J  (E.  bj63askalh), 
son  of  Sigurd,  the  son  of  Viking-Kari,  i.  33499-31  (but>  son  of 
Viking-Kari,  ii.  895.6;  cf.  Olaf s saga  Helga,  ed.  1853,  p.  5328.30 
Fms.  iv.  i3i10.15  Flat-  i-  6530-3i  n-  5925  SaSa  0L  Tryggvasonar, 
Fms.  i.  2  5i13.14  Melabdk  of  Landnama,  F.  J6nsson's  ed. 
24914.16),  father  to  Astrid,  the  mother  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i. 
223-.8  2244.5  225I5  2282(J.27  23ox  3oo20— hides  his  daughter 
with  her  new-born  son,  Olaf,  from  her  pursuers,  Gunnhild 
and  her  sons,  2  243.13— sends  her  with  her  child  privily  out 
of  Norway  to  Hakon  the  Old  in  Sweden,  22  5n.24  2263 — his 
sons,  2  2826  2  2923  3oi9.10 

ERIC  BLOOD- AXE  (E.  B1636x),  King  of  Norway  (930)"934, 
son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Ragnhild,  d.  of  Eric,  King  of  Jut- 
land, i.  i  \\Vi.yr- lost  his  mother  when  three  years  old  and  was 
fostered  by  Thorir,  the  son  of  Roald,  a  hersir  in  the  Firths, 
119^3  i2818.20 — K.  Harald's  favourite  son,  i2820.21 — fitted  out 
by  his  father,  when  twelve  years  of  age,  with  five  longships  for 
the  wars,  he  harries  for  eight  years  Baltic  lands,  British 
dominions,  finally  going  to  Finland  and  the  country  of  the 
Perms,  i2822-i292 — his  marriage  with  Gunnhild,  the  daughter 
of  Osur  Tot,  1293-130 — abode  always  with  his  father,  i3i30 


36  Index  I  [eri 

— appointed  King  over  Halogaland,  Northmere  and  Raums- 
dale,  i3i30.31 — aspired  himself  and  was  destined  by  his  father 
to  the  head-kingship  over  his  brethren,  I333.6 — burnt  in  his 
house,  together  with  eighty  wizards,  at  his  father's  behest,  his 
brother  Rognvald  Straightleg,  i3321.25— coming  to  Tunsberg 
from  the  Eastlands  with  his  warships  in  need  of  provisions, 
which  his  brother  Biorn  Chapman  refused  to  supply,  he  set 
upon  Biorn  and  slew  him  at  Seaham,  1352.3! — guesting  at 
Solvi  in  Northmere  he  is  attacked  by  night  by  his  brother 
Halfdan  the  Black,  and  barely  escapes  being  burnt  in  the 
house,  i363.12 — led  by  his  father  into  the  seat  of  supreme 
kingship  over  Norway,  14105-27  J4224 — opposition  by  his 
brothers  to  the  measure,  14107-142^— a  son  of  his  and 
Gunnhild's  baptized  by  Har.  Hairfair  to  his  own  name, 
namely,  Harald  Greycloak,  afterwards  King  of  Norway,  i4227.30 
— Eric's  contest  with  his  brothers  for  the  supreme  power  in 
Norway,  i443.30  14912-14 — personal  description,  y^^-x^^ — 
his  children,  i455.s — loses  hold  on  and  control  of  his 
subjects  when  Hakon,  his  brother,  comes  from  England 
claiming  the  crown,  and  abolishing  the  feudal  tenure  of  land 
introduced  by  his  father,  150-151^ — finding  that  his  people 
would  not  respond  to  his  call  to  arms,  he  flees  west-over-sea 
to  England,  152^  i5527.32  i8o29.30 — he  goes  first  to  Orkney, 
and  gathers  a  host  to  him  "there;  sets  off  for  England, 
harrying  Scotland  on  the  way,  and  then  invades  north 
England,  i526.n — comes  to  terms  with  K.  Athelstan  on 
agreeing  to  becoming  his  vassal  over  Northumberland  and 
being  baptized  to  Christianity  with  all  his  people,  i52n.23 — 
resided  at  York,  i52.>5- — having  about  him  a  host  too 
numerous  for  his  land  to  support,  he  eked  out  his  income  by 
making  war  every  summer  on  Scotland,  Sodor,  Ireland  or 
Wales,  i533.10 — in  view  of  K.  Edmund's  hostility  he  quits 
Northumberland  and  makes  war  in  the  west,  joined  by  the 
forces  of  the  sons  of  Turf-Einar  of  Orkney,  and  by  viking 
hosts  in  Sodor,  with  which  he  harried  Ireland,  Wales,  and 
southern  England,  where  he  fell  in  a  great  battle  against  a 
vassal  king  of  Edmund's  called  Olaf,  i53n-i54ir  (cf.  i565.6) 
cf.  ii.  i6828.30  i8o3.4 — all  his  sons  dead  by  a.d.  999,  i.  34229.30 
ERIC,  son  of  Emund  or  Eymund  (E.  Emundarson  or  Eymund- 
arson),  King  of  Upsala,  t882(?),  i.  9329.30  9415 — his  contests 


ERl] 


Index  I  37 


with  Harald  Hairfair  about  the  possession  of  Vermland,  West 
Gautland,  and  the  eastern  Wick,  resulting  in  the  conquest  by 
Harald  of  all  the  disputed  territories,  i.  io512-no21 — his 
dealings  with  Aki  the  Wealthy,  goodman  of  Vermland,  io620- 
io8s — dies  when  King  Harald  had  reigned  for  ten  years, 
1 2330-i  242 — contemporary  of  Lawman  Thorgnyr's  grandfather, 
ii.  12O00.93 — his  conquests  about  the  southern  and  eastern 
littoral  of  the  Baltic,  1 2o23.29 — ready  to  listen  to  those  who  had 
errands  with  him,  i2o.,9.31 

ERIC  EVERMINDED  (E.  eymuni),  King  of  Denmark,  1134- 
1137,  son  of  Eric  the  Good,  K.  of  Denmark,  his  son  Svein, 
iii.  271,3 — sends  a  shrine  to  King  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer, 
which  was  placed  in  Castle  Church  at  Kings'  Rock,  iii.  3oq31- 
3io1 — receives  King  Harald  Gilli  after  his  defeat  at  the  battle 
of  Fyrileif,  and  gives  him  presents,  31 725.32 — sends  word  to  the 
folk  of  Kings'  Rock  to  be  on  their  guard  against  the  Wends, 
32  6l7.01 — yet  is  mistaken  for  their  commander  for  a  moment, 
327i4-ic — is  visited  by  Magnus  the  Blind,  who  persuades  him 
to  attempt  the  conquest  of  Norway,  which  country  he  invades 
with  six  hundred  (6  x  120)  ships,  35124-32 — arriving  at  Tuns- 
berg  he  is  stoutly  opposed  by  the  landed-men  of  King  Ingi, 
and  makes  for  Oslo,  where  he  burns  Hallward's  Church  and 
the  town,  3524-3536 — puts  off  with  his  host  on  the  approach 
of  Thiostolf  Alison,  3533 — turns  back  to  Denmark  after  a  most 
humiliating  attempt  to  conquer  Norway,  35315.o4 

ERIC  THE  GOOD  (E.  hinn  g6$i),  King  of  Denmark,  1095- 
1103,  son  of  Svein  Wolfson,  iii.  i9426  271^.7 — present  at  the 
meeting  between  King  Magnus  Barefoot  and  King  Ingi  at 
Kings'  Rock,  2  326.10 — the  goodliest  of  looks  of  the  three 
monarchs,  2  3227.28 — His  sons,  Eric  Everminded,  Knut  the 
Lord  and  Harald  Kesia,  27i5.7  9  28315.10 

ERIC,  natural  son  of  Hakon  the  Mighty  of  Ladir  by  a  low-born 
woman  of  the  Uplands;  Earl  over  a  large  part  of  Norway, 
1 000-1014,  ob.  1 016 — his  fostering  by  Thorleif  the  Sage, 
goodliness,  great  promise,  and  early  relations  to  his  father,  i. 
20918.26 — his  quarrel  with,  and  slaying  of  Skopti  of-the-Tidings, 
24722-249n — visits  K.  Harald  Gormson,  who  appoints  him  to 
an  earldom  over  Vingulmark  and  Raumrealm,  24913.28 — 
hears  of  the  conspiracy  of  the  Jomsvikings  against  his  father, 
and  joins  him  in  calling  northern  Norway  up  to  arms,  and 


38  Index  I  [eri 

unites  his  own  with  his  father's  fleet  in  HallkePs-wick,  273^- 
27415  276.j8.oc) — commands  one  wing  of  the  fleet  in  the  'battle 
of  the  jomsburgers,'  and  fights  valiantly,  277^-281^  ii.  26^ 
— his  noble  conduct  to  the  prisoners,  28i30-28223 — his  kindness 
to  Vagn  Akison,  2833,3-2842 — on  his  father's  death,  and  Olaf 
Tryggvison's  becoming  King  of  Norway,  he  flies  to  Sweden, 
where  he  is  well  received  by  K.  Olaf,  29916.19  300^  345,5.30 — 
gathers  round  him  followers  from  Norway,  and  goes  warring 
to   Gothland,    Wendland   and    Garth  realm,   where   he  won 
Aldeigia-burg   and   harried   the  country   for   five   summers 
running,  next  going  to  Adalsysla  and  Isle-sysla,  and  winning 
the  day  everywhere,  34531-34810 — goes  to  Denmark  and  weds 
Gyda,  the  daughter  of  Svein  Twibeard,  34812.1S — becomes  a 
close  ally  of  the  kings  of  Sweden  and  Denmark,  3483^33 — at 
Svein  Twibeard's  request  he  joins  his  force  to  Svein's  in  order 
to  meet  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  battle,  359x0-360,3 — watches  with 
the  kings  of  Sweden  and  Denmark  Olaf  Tryggvison's  ships 
sailing  up  to  Svold,  36204-364^ — settles  terms  with  the  kings 
as  to  the  spoils  in  case  of  victory,  36422.28 — commands  a 
great  iron-beaked  war  galley,  36429.33 — his  part  in  the  battle 
of  Svold,   36712.16  23.24   36832-3697   10.13   27.29    37o6.23  37i3.ls 
37227"375ie — Norway  being   partitioned   between    the   con- 
querors of  Svold,  he  receives  for  his  share  four  folklands  in 
Thrandheim,  Halogaland,  Naumdale,  Firths  and  Fialir,  Sogn, 
Hordland,  Rogaland,  and  North- Agdir  to  Lidandisness,  377 32- 
3782 — and  besides  from  Svein  Twibeard  out  of  his  allotment : 
Raumrealm  and  Heathmark,  37821.22  ii.  2  5o19.22 — lets  himself 
be  christened,  but  leaves  perfect  freedom  of  worship  to  his 
subjects,  observes  laws  and  customs  and  'is  well  beloved,' 
37^25-31 — makes  Ladir  his  capital  and  leaves  Nidoyce  to  go 
into  decay,  ii.  5o19.28 — rules  over  Norway  conjointly  with  his 
brother  Svein,  ii.  2i19.21  25o22.23 — he  and  his  brother  give  their 
sister  Bergliot  in  marriage  to  Einar  Thambarskelfir,  2  224.26 — 
his  strained  relations  with  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli,  i.  3784.6 
ii.  2312-252  cf.  7420..24 — summoned  by  King  Knut,  he  goes  to 
England,  leaving  his  son  Hakon  in  the  rule  of  Norway,  and 
meets  Knut  when  he  won  London,  and  west  of  London  he 
met  Wolfkel  Snilling  in  battle  and  felled  him,  2  527-2634  2  5o19.27 
— died  from  blood-letting  when  he  had  been  one  winter  in 
England,  and  was  preparing  for  a  pilgrimage  to  Rome,  27^ 


ERl] 


Index  I  39 


— shared  with  his  brother  Svein,  while  in  rule  of  Norway, 

one-half  of  all  revenues,  including  land-dues  or  sailing-fees, 

from  Iceland  ships,  5219.22 
ERIC  HEEL  (E.  hash),  son  of  Eindrid  of  Gautdale,  a  follower  of 

Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  356^ 
ERIC,    King  of  Hordaland,   father   to   Gyda,   wife   of   Har. 

Hairfair,  i.  93^.^ — joins  the  kings  of  Rogaland,  Agdir  and 

Thelmark  against  Harald  Hairfair  and  fights  with  him  in 

Hafursfirth,  where  he  fell,  iii8.27 
ERIC,  son  of  Ivar  Gaudhank,   Archbishop  of  Nidoyce,  iii. 

36233 

ERIC,  King  of  Jutland,  father  to  Ragnhild  the  Mighty,  a  wife 
of  Harald  Hairfair,  i.  ii412.13 

ERIC  ODDSON  (E.  Oddsson),  Icelandic  historian,  quoted  as 
authority  on  an  episode  in  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon's  life,  taken 
down  from  the  mouth  of  Einar,son  of  Lax-Paul,  iii.  3593 — tells 
the  story  of  the  battle  at  Holm-the-Gray  on  the  authority  of 
Gudrid,  Birgir's  daughter,  who  averred  she  had  it  from  Bishop 
Ivar,  who  himself  was  in  the  battle,  36327.29 — relates  the 
story  of  the  end  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  on  the  authority  of 
Hall,  son  of  Thorgeir  Leech,  an  eye-witness  of  what  happened 
to  Sigurd,  3651(Kl4 — author  of  the  historical  work  called  'Back- 
bone-Piece '  (Hryggjarstykki),  which  tells  the  story  of  Harald 
Gilli,  Magnus  the  Blind  and  Sigurd  'Slembi,'  36514.1S — 
further  account  of  his  authorities  and  method  of  writing 
history,  36518.27 — on  the  authority  of  Dean  Ketil  of  St.  Mary's 
Church,  Alaburg,  Eric  states  that  Sig.  Slembi-Deacon  was 
buried  there,  36723.25 

ERIC'S  SONS  (Eiriks  synir,  synir  Eiriks),  otherwise  also  called 
Gunnhild's  sons,  the  sons  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  his  wife 
Gunnhild  (cf.  i.  i455.8),  leave  England  with  their  mother 
after  the  fall  of  their  father,  and  make  themselves  masters  of 
Orkney  and  Shetland,  residing  in  Orkney  in  winter  and 
harrying  Scotland  and  Ireland  in  summer,  i.  i5420-I555 — 
their  diminished  strength  in  the  west  leaves  Hakon  the 
Good  free  to  operate  where  needful  with  his  armed  host, 
I553o"I5^9 — hearing  that  K.  Hakon  was  embroiled  in  war 
with  K.  Harald  Gormson,  they  go  to  Denmark,  where  they 
are  hospitably  cared  for,  i59(5.2s — some  of  them,  age  allowing, 
went  on  war  raids  in   the   East-lands,   i5928-i6o9  i749.10 — 


40  Index  I  [eri 

personal  prowess,  i5931.32 — their  raids  on  Norway,  i6on.16 
I74io-n — tnev  defeat  the  governor  of  the  Wick,  King  Tryggvi, 
at  Sotaness,  I7i28-i725 — are  defeated  in  turn  by  Hakon  in 
the  battle  of  Ogvaldsness,  i725-i7319 — 'Eric's  sons  abode 
again  in  Denmark  for  a  long  time,'  17321-22 — invade  Norway 
with  a  large  force  supported  by  Denmark,  and  suffer  a 
severe  defeat  by  Hakon  the  Good  at  Rast-Kalf  on  the 
island  of  Fraedi,  i7414-i8o5 — again  they  invade  Hakon's 
dominion,  and  are  defeated  in  the  battle  of  Stord,  at  which 
Hakon  lost  his  life,  i8o27-i8821 — they  take  possession  of 
the  kingdom  of  Norway,  i978.9 — offer  to  Tryggvi  Olafson  and 
Gudrod  Biornson  to  hold  of  them  such  share  of  the  realm  as 
they  had  held  of  K.  Hakon,  i9719.24 — from  fear  of  the  men 
of  Thrandheim  and  of  the  Wick,  who  were  most  devoted  to 
K.  Hakon,  Eric's  sons  keep  to  the  middle  of  the  country, 
i999.14 — peace,  'in  words  at  least,'  made  between  them 
and  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir,  i9915.23 — all  brothers  were  noted 
for  miserliness,  i9924-2oo9 — their  characteristics  as  rulers  and 
men,  2oi12-2024 — they  compass,  with  the  aid  of  his  own 
brother,  Griotgarth,  the  death  of  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir,  202^- 
2o52o — they  find  in  Hakon,  the  son  of  Earl  Sigurd,  such  a 
foe  that  they  are  fain  to  make  terms  of  peace  with  him  all  in 
his  favour,  whereon  follows  great,  but  sometimes  guile- 
blended,  intimacy  between  Queen  Gunnhild  and  Hakon, 
2c>526-2o812 — the  brothers,  hearing  that  Hakon  has  allied 
himself  with  Tryggvi  and  Gudrod  and  Gudbrand  a'  Dale, 
2io3.14  gather  a  host  together  against  Hakon,  2i312.lV  and, 
on  his  escape,  take  full  possession  of  Thrandheim,  2i3ls- 
2i4n  cf.  2322.4 — they  evacuate  Thrandheim  on  Earl  Hakon's 
reappearance  there,  and  are  kept  at  bay  south  of  Stad,  2i414.31 
— their  governor  of  Mere,  Griotgarth,  slain  by  his  nephew, 
Earl  Hakon,  2i6ir2i76 — the  rule  of  Eric's  sons  signalized 
by  great  famine,  2i8n.22 — their  plots  for  the  purpose  of 
securing  Olaf,  the  infant  son  of  K.  Tryggvi,  224^2  2824 — 
Earl  Hakon  tells  Harald  Gormson  plainly  what  reward  he 
has  received  from  Gunnhild's  sons  for  all  his  support,  235.,2.25 
— on  Ari  the  Learned's  authority  the  sons  of  Gunnhild  and 
Earl  Hakon  were  at  war  for  the  last  six  years  of  K.  Harald 
Graycloak's  reign,  23928.34 — the  exiles  of  the  sons  of  Gunn- 
hild return  to  Norway  in  the  train  of  K.  Harald  Gormson, 


eri — erl]  Index  I  41 

24o14.0(1 — Earl  Hakon  being  appointed  to  the  rule  of  Norway 
by  K.  Harald  Gormson,  the  sons  of  Gunnhild  with  their 
mother  flee  once  again  from  Norway  to  Orkney,  24i17.n3 — 
the  cost  of  now  defending  Norway  against  the  sons  of  Gunn- 
hild defrayed  by  the  tribute  Earl  Hakon  was  to  pay  to 
Denmark,  25310.15 — the  rule  of  Gunnhild's  sons  described 
by  the  Upland  King  Roerek,  ii.  4210.20— their  relations  to 
Harald  Gormson  described  by  Olaf  the  Swede,  97o0.31 

ERIC  THE  RED  (E.  RauSi),  [son  of  Thorvald,]  the  discoverer 
of  Greenland,  i.  34  iltH- — displeased  with  his  son  Leif  for 
bringing  a  Christian  missionary  to  his  abode,  35513  xy 

ERIC  THE  VICTORIOUS  (E.  sigrsasli),  son  of  Biorn,  King 
of  Sweden,  i.  i246.7 — married  Sigrid  the  Highminded,  d.  of 
Skogul-Tosti;  their  son  Olaf  the  Swede,  King  of  Sweden, 
2i33.s  2  8412.14 — his  dealings  with  Hakon,  Gunnhild's  mes- 
senger, sent  to  secure  the  person  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  2  2  723- 
2  28.14 — overcomes  and  slays  (in  the  battle  of  Fyri's  meads) 
his  nephew  Styrbiorn,  ii.  q83.5  (cf.  Flateybook,  ii.  72n-73<,) 
— contemporary  of  Lawman  Thorgnyr,  went  on  many  a  war- 
faring,  and  increased  the  realm  of  Sweden,  but  was  easy  of 
access  to  his  people,  i2iG.10 — died  at  Upsala  'ten  winters 
after  Styrbiorn  fell,'  i.  2i3S9 

ERIC  THE  YEAR-SEELY  (E.  hinn  ars;eli),  son  of  Blot- 
Svein,  King  of  Sweden,  an  upholder  of  blood-offerings,  iii. 

2853 
ERIC,  son  of  K.  Yngvi  Alrekson,  with  his  brother  Jorund 

he  overcame  K.  Gudlaug  of  Halogaland ;  he  was  slain  by 

the  usurping  King  Haki  of  Sweden  in  battle  at  Fyri's  meads, 

i-  393-4°n 
ERLAND,  see  Erlend. 
ERLEND    (Erlendr)    of    Garth    (iii.    37 10),    see    Erlend    of 

Gerdi. 
ERLEND  of  Gerdi,  paternal  great-great-grandfather  of  Erling 

Askew,  iii.  37i3.6 — traitor  to  Olaf  the  Holy  in  King  Knut's 

pay,  ii.  39o10.15 — falls  at  Sticklestead,  4348 
ERLEND,  son  of  Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir,  commander  of  his 

ships  at  Vig,  i.   29310.13  18  cf.  2924.., — going  by  his  father's 

orders  down  Thrandheim  Firth  towards  Mere,  he  encounters 

Olaf  Tryggvison  coming  up  the  firth,  and,  turning  to  flight, 

is  slain  by  Olaf,  293l8.19  2953.20 


42  Index  I  [erl 

ERLEND  HOMEBRED,  see  Erlend  Sloven. 
ERLEND  SLOVEN  (E.  himaldi),  son  of  Joan  the  Strong  and 
father  of  Eystein,  Archbishop  of  Thrandheim,  iii.   io413.14 

45613 

ERLEND,  Earl  of  Orkney,  son  of  Earl  Thorfinn  Sigurdson,  holds 
the  islands  in  feof  of  the  King  of  Norway,  iii.  24814.20 — joins 
in  King  Harald  Sigurdson's  invasion  of  England,  i663 — left 
behind  to  guard  the  ships  while  Harald  marched  on  York, 
I7°20 — arrested  by  King  Magnus  Barefoot  and  sent  east  to 
Norway,  22i17 — dies  of  sickness  in  Nidoyce  and  is  buried 
there,  2  2  524 — relations  of  his  sons  Magnus  and  Erling  to 
K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  2390.9 — his  son  Erling  falls  with  K. 
Magnus  in  Ireland,  24228.29 

ERLEND,  son  of  Turf  Einar,  Earl  of  Orkney,  which,  with  his 
brothers,  he  held  in  feof  of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  joins  Eric's 
expedition  against  Edmund,  K.  of  England,  and  falls  in 
battle  in  the  south  of  England,  i.  153^-1 5413  cf.  ii.  i68O(3.30 

ERLING  ASKEW  (Erlingr  skakki),  son  of  Kyrping-Worm  and 
Ragnhild,  daughter  of  Sveinki,  the  son  of  Steinar,  iii.  37  ia — 
a  wise  man  and  a  great  friend  of  King  Ingi  Haraldson,  by 
whose  interest  Erling  obtains  in  marriage  Kristin,  the  daugh- 
ter of  King  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  and  Queen  Malmfrid, 
37Jii-i4 — nas  a  house  at  Studla  in  South-Hordland,  37i15 
39*6-7 — n^s  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem,  37i15-37234 — held  of 
less  account  than  his  brother  Ogmund  Hammerer,  37713-15 — 
takes  prominent  part  in  the  battle  of  the  Elf  between  K. 
Ingi  and  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  403^-4 1520 — plans  off  and 
on  during  the  following  winter  an  expedition  to  Thrandheim 
to  secure  the  person  of  Hakon,  but  it  comes  to  nought,  41 613.21 
— takes  part  in  the  fray  on  the  bridges  at  Biorgvin,  4i726- 
4i820 — warned  by  his  wife  not  to  trust  Hakon  Shoulderbroad, 
427i5-2f, — Erling's  part  in  the  election  of  a  successor  to  K. 
Ingi,  which  falls  on  his  son  Magnus,  43 5^-43 7i3— fares  south 
to  Denmark  with  his  son  K.  Magnus,  and  secures  for  him 
the  support  of  Waldimar  on  acknowledging  the  whole  of  the 
Wick  north  of  Rygiarbit  as  Danish  territory,  437^.-438^ — 
returning  from  Denmark  he  goes  on  to  Biorgvin — slays 
Ami  Fickleskull,  King  Hakon's  bailiff — goes  east  to  meet 
Hakon,  438^-439^ — engagement  with  Hakon  Shoulderbroad 
at  Tunsberg,  439^440^ — takes  all  King  Hakon's  ships  in 


erl] 


Index  I  43 


Tunsberg  and  lays  all  the  Wick  under  the  sway  of  King 
Magnus — stays  the  winter  in  Biorgvin — has  Ingibiorn  Sip  1, 
a  landed-man  of  K.  Hakon's,  slain,  440.^-44 16— King  Hakon 
arrays  himself  to  move  south  to  engage  Erling,  441^-— his 
last  encounter  with  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  who  is  slam  on 
board  Erling's  own  ship,  441^-44712— he  and  Magnus  fare 
with  their  host  north  to  Nidoyce,  and  lay  all  the  land  under 
them,  44719..n— summons  the  Thing  of  Eres,  where  Magnus 
is  taken  for"  king  over  all  the  land,  44722.24— mistrusts  the 
Thrandheimers,  44724.26— after  a  short  stay  in  Biorgvin  he 
sets  up  in  Tunsberg  and  winters  there,  44823.28  449i4-i6 — 
organizes  in  the  Wick  a  strong  combination  against  the  party 
of  Sigurd,  the  brother  of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  led  by 
Earl  Sigurd  of  Reyr,  449iC-45o2— feasts  folk  through  Yule 
at  Tunsberg,  45o5.7 — accepts,  on  his  own  terms,  the  surrender 
of  some  of  the  partisans  of  Earl  Sigurd  of  Reyr,  45°i4-23— 
Philippus,  son  of  Gyrd,  makes  peace  with  him,  45°23 — ms 
victory  at  Re  over  Earl  Sigurd  of  Reyr,  45I3-455ie— ousts 
Markus  o'  Shaw  and  his  foster-son  Sigurd  (brother  of  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad)  at  Hising,  455^-456^— hearing  that  Markus 
and  Sigurd  had  gone  north  to  Thrandheim,  he  sets  off  with  a 
fleet  in  pursuit,  but  falls  in  with  contrary  winds,  458o-i2 — 
advised  that  his  captains  in  Biorgvin  had  slain  Sigurd  and 
Markus,  he  gives  home-leave  to  the  special  levy,  but  holds 
east  across  the  Fold  with  his  own  force,  being  informed  that 
Markus's  men  are  on  the  east  of  the  firth,  459n-i5 — .stays 
through  the  autumn  at  Kings'  Rock,  459i5-i7 — punishes 
the    people    of    Hising-isle    for    siding    with    Marcus  _  and 

his  party,  459ir4°°ii— leaves  Kin§s'  Rock  in  Purs.ult  °\ 
Markus's  followers  Frirek  Cockboat  and  Biarni  the  Evil,  and 
slays  both,  460^-46 18— rests  at  Tunsberg  for  a  while,  and 
then  goes  on  to  Biorgvin,  46i14.18— on  mutual  concessions  he 
prevails  with  Archbishop  Eystein  to  have  his  son  crowned 
King  of  Norway,  461^-4643,— with  twelve  landed-men  he 
swears  oath  to  the  laws  together  with  his  son,  46423-24 — Wltn 
his  son  he  gives  to  the  Archbishop,  the  Legate  of  Rome, 
five  suffragans,  etc.,  a  glorious  banquet  on  the  occasion,  464., ,  JS 
—Erling  breaks  his  covenant  with  Valdimar,  King  of  Den- 
mark, 465-466,4— the  Danes,  incensed  at  Erling's  conduct, 
threaten  war  on  Norway  in  the  spring,  4663.3u — Erling  winters 


44  Index  I  [erl 

in  Biorgvin,  4663^4670 — lays  a  snare  for  the  Thrandheimers 
to  test  their  loyalty  to  his  son,  into  which,  when  they  had 
fallen,  he  visits  them  with  severe  penalties,  467-469^ — re- 
turns to  Biorgvin,  46924.25 — King  Valdimar  having  made  an 
abortive  raid  on  Norway,  resulting,  however,  in  extensive 
robberies  on  outlying  islands,  Erling  retaliates  by  an  armed 
expedition  to  Jutland,  where  he  falls  on  the  Danish  fleet, 
drives  the  Danes  into  flight,  and  plunders  the  ships  of  their 
booty,  and  the  port  of  Deersriver  as  well,  46903-47100 — by  a 
clever  move  of  his  wife  Kristin,  '  King's  daughter,'  Erling  gets 
again  into  King  Valdimar's  good  graces,  he  remaining  as  a 
hostage  with  the  Dane-king,  and  the  Danish  noble  Asbiorn 
Snare  with  King  Magnus  of  Norway,  47I26-4732 — by  persua- 
sive talk  he  becomes  King  Valdimar's  earl  over  the  Wick  in 
Norway,  in  which  capacity  he  continued  till  his  death,  4735- 
4745 — his  base-born  sons,  4745.8 — his  daughter  Ragnhild, 
474911 — bis  dealings  with  the  band  which  Sigurd  Bait-hat 
and  Olaf  the  Unlucky  raised  in  the  Uplands,  474.2T-47628 — 
goes  into  the  Wick  to  his  ships  and  stays  the  summer  there, 
4774-6 — victorious  engagement  with  Olaf's  band  at  Stangs, 
477io-i7 — bis  dealing  with  Harald,  the  reputed  son  of  Sigurd, 
son  of  HaraldGilliand  Kristin  Erling's  wife,  47 726-478ir — sits  in 
Biorgvin  whilst  the  Birchlegs  sail  past  unawares,  48o18.20 — his 
person,  character,  and  attire,  48o20-48i2 — keeps  in  Biorgvin 
in  readiness  to  oppose  the  Birchlegs  should  they  fare  west, 
484,. — the  Birchlegs,  after  being  defeated  by  K.  Magnus  at 
Re,  harbour  but  slight  hope  of  mercy  from  Erling,  487^ — 
Erling  deemed  by  ail  his  people  to  have  been  breast  and  ward 
for  himself  and  his  son  Magnus,  4877.0 

ERLING,  son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunnhild,  i.  i457  2O310 — ■ 
in  company  with  Harald  Graycloak,  and  Griotgarth,  the 
brother  of  Earl  Sigurd,  he  burns  the  latter  in  his  house,  2O53.20 
— his  rule  over  Thrandheim  so  oppressive  that  the  people  rose 
in  rebellion  and  slew  him,  218-^g  232^3 

ERLING,  son  of  Earl  Erlend  Thorfinson,  accompanies  King 
Magnus  Barefoot  from  Orkney  on  his  Irish  expedition,  iii. 
2395 — falls  in  Ireland  with  the  King,  24228 

ERLING,  son  of  Hakon  Earl  of  Ladir,  said  by  some  to  have 
been  offered  up  by  his  father  to  Odin  for  victory  in  the  battle  of 
Hiorungwick,  i.  283^.29 


erl] 


Index  I  45 


ERLING  of  Jadar,  see  Erling  of  Soli. 

ERLING,  son  of  Joan  Arnison  and  Ranveig,  daughter  of  Sigurd, 
the  son  of  Thorir  Hound,  iii.  i714 

ERLING  THE  OLD,  one  of  Ring  Sigurd  Slaverer's  men,  slays 
'hersir'  Rlyp  in  revenge  for  his  liege-lord,  i.  2i61114 

ERLING  OF  SOLI  (Erlingr  af  Sola),  son  of  Thorolf  Skialg  the 
grandson  of  Horda  Rari,  usually  called  Erling  Skialgson,  i. 
3°3^s — obtains  in  marriage  Astrid,  the  sister  of  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison,  3o6L,,r3o85 — in  might  and  power  like  to  Gudbrand  a- 
Dales,  ii.  2oo21.32 — refuses  the  dignity  of  Earl,  but  is  invested 
by  Olaf  Tryggvison  with  dominion  over  Hordland  and 
Rogaland,  between  Sognsea  and  Lidandisness,  i.  3o86.15  ii.  2  33.7 
74i4-i7 — joins  Olaf  Tryggvison's  expedition  to  Wendland, 
commanding  his  own  ship,  3587.10  363^0 — after  the  partition 
of  Norway  between  the  victors  of  Svold,  Earl  Eric  grudged 
Erling  his  dominion  and  the  moiety  of  the  Ring's  revenues 
which  Olaf  had  granted  him  of  that  dominion,  whence  arose 
strained  relations  between  him  and  the  Earls  Eric  and  Svein, 
ii.  2  312-244  74.00.24 — he  goes  a- warring  in  summer-tide  to  eke 
out  his  means,  244.0 — his  prowess  and  lordly  ways,  249.24 — 
his  children,  2424.27 — his  domestic  ways — body-guard,  in 
peaceful  and  unpeaceful  circumstances — war  galley,  2428-2  56 
— his  ways  of  dealing  with  thralls  and  freedmen,  2  59.95 — 
Earls  Svein  and  Hakon  make  peace  and  family  alliance  with 
him,  3312.o0  74hj.it — he  joins  Earl  Svein's  expedition  against 
Olaf  Haraldson,  which  terminated  in  the  battle  of  Nesiar, 
5  5 12-10 — advises  in  vain  Earl  Svein,  after  the  loss  of  that 
battle,  to  go  north  again,  and  levy  fresh  hosts  against  Ring 
Olaf  Haraldson,  628.11 — parts  from  the  Earl,  and  goes  to  his 
dominion  in  Rogaland,  6220.24 — surrounds  himself  with  a 
large  company  of  men,  6203.24  64l7.19 — arranges  terms  of 
peace  with  Ring  Olaf  in  Whiting-isle,  747-7516 — enjoys  of 
royal  grants  less  than  before,  but  has  undisputed  authority 
over  the  commonalty  from  Sognsea  to  Lidandisness,  and 
hence  was  called  '  Ring  of  the  Rogalanders,'  2i23.n  2i721— 
his  cousin,  Aslak  Skull  o'  Fitiar  (they  were  second  cousins 
and  great-grandsons  of  Horda-Rari),  being  set  up  by  Ring 
Olaf  Haraldson  to  counteract  his  power,  he  drives  Aslak  out 
of  his  bailiffry,  2i212.2S — meets  the  Ring  at  Tunsberg,  and 
defends  his  action  in  this  and  other  matters  connected  there- 


46  Index  I  [ers — eth 

with,  2i229-2i328 — peace  made  between  Erling  and  the  King 
by  friendly  mediators,  2i329-2i413 — his  action  on  behalf  of 
his  nephew  Asbiorn  Seal's-bane,  which  brought  on  him  the 
full  enmity  of  the  King,  217^-219^  2246.27  22719-22_929  23il7.20 
— kept,  as  rumour  would  have  it,  great  gathering  round 
him,  in  case  the  King  might  come  upon  him  unawares,  268 
10.12;  a  rumour  made  fun  of  by  Haldor  Brynjolfson,  2  6819.22 — 
at  "the  request  of  his  daughter  Ragnhild,  he  lends  his  son- 
in-law,  Thorberg  Arnison,  prompt  aid  against  King  Olaf  in 
the  affair  of  Stein  Skaptison,  28328-2843 — leaves  Norway, 
with  four  or  five  ships,  and  goes  with  his  sons  to  join  King 
Knut  in  England,  3ii2.7  3356.8 — returns  to  Norway  director 
of  Knut's  bribing  operations,  335l7.29 — joins  Knut  at  Eikund- 
sound,  34819.22 — Knut  promises  him  the  rule  of  all  the  land 
between  Stad  and  Rygsbit,  34822.25 — his  host  on  Jadar,  354n 
—sails  after  King  Olaf,  3553.24 — is  defeated  and  slain,  3560- 
35S30 — n^s  body  is  brought  to  Soli,  35924 — Sigvat's  song  on 
the  fall  of  Erling,  35930-36o4 — his  sons  take  a  leading  part 
in  the  opposition  against  Olaf  the  Holy,  38 11 — his  son  Aslak, 
owner  of  the  family  seat  in  Harald  Hardredy's  reign,  iii. 
io6,>4 

ERSE"-FOLK,  see  Irish. 

ESTHONIAN  FOLK,  Estlanders  (Eistr),  i.  53^  229,5 

ETHELRED  (The  sons  of),  their  dealings  with  Knut  the 
Mighty,  ii.  2  78.11  19.24 — their  flight  to  Normandy  and  alliance 
with  Olaf  Haraldson,  futile  attempt  to  reconquer  England, 
retirement  to  Rouen  and  parting  from  Olaf,  2707-290 

ETHELRED  (ASalraBr)  (the  Unready),  son  of  Edgar,  King 
of  England,  979-1016;  married  Emma,  daughter  of  Richard 
I.,  Duke  of  Normandy,  ii.  2i26.28 — his  deposition  or  death 
vowed  by  Svein  Twibeard  of  Denmark,  i.  2  725.n — flies  away 
from  England  before  Svein  Twibeard  into  Valland  (Nor- 
mandy), ii.  i2'22.26 — on  Twibeard's  death  he  returns  to  Eng- 
land, gathers  together  an  army,  and  is  joined  by  Olaf  Harald- 
son and  his  Norwegians,  i31.8 — attack  on  and  victory  over 
the  Danes  in  Southwark,  i30-i54 — London  subdued  to  his 
sway,  1 55.35-— victory  over  Wolfkel  Snilling,  and  further  ex- 
tension of  his  sway  over  England,  16 — conquest  of  Kent, 
1 73.24 — further  extension  of  his  authority  through  Olaf's  vic- 
tories, i725-i815 — his  death,  i820.21  2  7n.12 


eyj — eys]  Index  I  47 

EYJOLF  DADASKALD  (Eyjolfr  DaSaskald),  Icel.  poet, 
wrought  the  song  Banda-Drapa  on  Earl  Eric  Hakonson,  i. 
24823-249,3  20.2S  3468.16  2J.29  347h-o2  ar348u 

EYOLF  VALGERDSON,  father  to  Gudmund  the  Mighty  of 
Maddermead,  i.  26903  iii.  i534 

EVSTEIN  (Eysteinn),  a  king,  father  of  Swanhild,  one  of 
Harald  Hairfair's  wives,  i.  ii415.lt; 

EYSTEIN,  son  of  K.  Adils,  King  of  the  Swede-realm,  burnt 
with  all  his  court  by  Solvi,  King  of  Jutland,  i.  5i26  523.n 

EVSTEIN,  Archbishop  of  Nidoyce,  1157-1188,  son  of  Erlend 
Sloven,  the  son  of  John  the  Strong,  the  son  of  Wolf  Uspak- 
son,  the  Marshal  of  Har.  Hardredy,  iii.  io43.15 — builds  {i.e. 
extends)  the  cathedral  of  Nidoyce,  and  sets  up  the  high  altar 
where  the  tomb  of  King  Olaf  the  Holy  had  been,  ii.  45713.15 
— takes  down  Mary's  church  upon  the  Mel,  105^. — chosen 
archbishop  after  the  death  of  Archbishop  Jon,  4S613.16 — his 
popularity  in  Thrandheim,  456lti..,3 — obtains  the  consent  of 
the  people  in  his  archdiocese  to  pay  fines,  etc.,  to  the  cathe- 
dral, not  in  the  debased  coin  then  current,  which  was  50 
pr.  c.  below  par,  but  in  pure  silver,  45623-45710  46i28-4624 — 
negotiations  with  Erling  Askew  in  reference  to  the  coronation 
of  K.  Magnus  Erlingson,  46tls-464u — performs  the  corona- 
tion amidst  much  festivity,  4641431 

EYSTEIN  BLACKCOCK,  see  Eystein  Heathcock. 

EYSTEIN,  son  of  Eystein  the  Terrible,  King  of  Heathmark, 
invades  Raumrealm,  newly  conquered  by  Halfdan  the  Black, 
i.  78t>11 — thrice  defeated  by  Halfdan,  he  makes  peace  with 
him,  retaining  half  Heathmark  for  his  dominion,  7814-794 

EYSTEIN  GLUMRA  (E.  glumra),  son  of  Ivar,  father  to  Rogn- 
vald  the  Mere-Earl,  i.  ioo21 — and  Sigurd,  Earl  of  Orkney, 
n6m6ii.  i680.s 

EYSTEIN,  son  of  Halfdan  Whiteleg,  King  of  Raumrick  and 
Westfold,  married  to  Hild,  d.  of  Eric,  King  of  Westfold,  the 
son  of  Agnar.  On  the  death  of  K.  Eric,  Halfdan  and  Eystein 
'  took  to  them  all  Westfold,'  which  Eystein  ruled  to  his  death, 
i.  6817.26 — Eystein's  war-raid  upon  King  Skiold  of  Varna,  in 
which  he  came  by  his  death,  brought  about  by  King  Skiold's 
witchcraft,  6826-692tJ 

EVSTEIN,  King  of  Norway,  1142-1157,  son  of  Harald  Gill 
and  Biadak,  an  Irish  woman,  married  to  Ragna,  d.  of  Nicolas 


48  Index  I  [eys 

Mew,  iii.  37820.21 — comes  from  Scotland  to  Thrandheim, 
where,  without  an  ordeal  to  prove  his  legitimacy,  he  is  made 
king  of  one-third  of  Norway,  his  brothers,  Sigurd  and  Ingi, 
consenting,  3683.21 — informed  of  the  slaying  of  Ottar  Bright- 
ling,  he  gathers  a  force  to  avenge  the  deed,  but  comes  to 
terms  with  K.  Sigurd  his  brother  on  his  promising  to  prove 
by  ordeal  his  innocence  of  the  murder,  37o3.13 — quells  a 
revolt  against  him  in  Ranrealm  and  Hising  by  defeating  the 
rebels  at  Leikberg,  37327-37422 — expedition  to  the  west  and 
warfare  in  Scotland  and  England,  3742s-37630 — return  to  Nor- 
way, 37631.33 — has  a  court  for  himself,  being  of  full  age,  while 
his  brothers,  being  minors,  have  a  joint  court,  3776.9 — his 
character  and  person,  37729-3782  1(3.20 — his  marriage,  37820.21 
42625.27 — differences  with  his  brother  Sigurd,  38519.26 — which 
they  make  up  over  a  plan  to  depose  their  crippled  brother 
Ingi,  a  plan  frustrated  by  the  latter,  38527-38625 — Ingi's  men 
having  slain  Sigurd  in  an  affray  at  Biorgvin,  Eystein  makes  a 
futile  attempt  to  avenge  brother  on  brother,  390ia.24 — his 
raid  on  Gregory  Dayson's  home,  390^-39 116  o3.24 — suspected 
of  having  set  fire  to  the  great  shipbuilding  yard  at  Nidoyce, 
39I24-3i — comes  to  forced  terms  of  peace  with  Ingi  in  Seal- 
isles,  3921.22 — continuance  of  strained  relations  between  the 
brothers,  39223-3932 — deserted  by  his  following  when  prepar- 
ing for  a  naval  encounter  with  Ingi,  he  abandons  his  ships  in 
Sogn  and  marches  over-land  to  the  Wick,  3935.18 — pursued  by 
Ingi,  he  is  caught  and  executed  by  Simon  Sheath,  39419- 
39^13 — buried  at  the  church  of  Force;  believed  to  be  a  holy 
man,  as  springs  were  discovered  where  he  fell  and  where  his 
body  was  waked,  and  miracles  happened  at  his  tomb  until 
the  broth  of  a  sodden  dog  poured  over  it  dispelled  the 
charm,  3952o-3962 — his  followers  make  Hakon,  his  nephew, 
their  chief,  3995.8 — his  cause  ardently  espoused  by  Earl  Si- 
gurd of  Reyr,  4095.15 — King  Ingi's  estimate  of  Eystein,  425 
i6-"o — ms  putative  son,  Eystein  Maiden,  47820.9.2 
EYSTEIN  HEATHCOCK  (E.  orri),  son  of  Thorberg  Arnison 
by  Ragnhild,  daughter  of  Erling  Skialgson,  ii.  28i10.13 — 
threatens  to  leave  his  father  unless  he  accedes  to  his  mother's 
request  to  save  Stein  Skaptison  from  K.  Olaf  Haraldson's 
revenge,  28i31.33 — left,  with  others,  to  guard  the  ships  of  K. 
Harald  Sigurdson  at  the  battle  of  Stamford  Bridge,  iii.  i7o18.21 


EYS] 


Index  I  49 


— in  exceeding  great  favour  with  K.  Harald,  who  at  this 
time  had  promised  him  in  marriage  his  daughter  Maria,  170 
21..,4 — '  Heathcock's  brunt,'  1 78^-1 794 
EYSTEIN  MAIDEN  (E.  Meyla),  thus  named  from  his  small 
features  (iii.  480^.^),  '  called '  the  son  of  K.  Eystein,  the  son 
of  Harald,  his  paternal  aunt,  Brigida,  being  the  wife  of  Earl 
Birgir  Brosa  in  Sweden,  iii.  47820.22  25-27~~turns  UP  m  Sweden, 
and  requests  the  Earl  to  avail  him  towards  obtaining  the 
kingdom  of  Norway,  a  request  readily,  though  insufficiently, 
responded  to,  47823-4793 — he  goes  into  Norway,  and  gathers 
a  strong  band  in  the  Wick,  who  proclaim  him  king,  4793S — 
short  of  means  he  plunders,  and  short  of  raiment  his 
followers  dress  their  legs  in  birch-bark,  whence  their  name 
Birch-legs,  479s.15 — his  mode  of  warfare  in  the  Wick  for 
two  years,  4798.27 — the  third  year  he  takes  to  ships,  and  sails 
round  up  to  Thrandheim  with  a  numerous  and  well-armed 
following,  eluding  Erling  Askew's  vigilance,  48o6.20 — he  carries 
the  town  of  Nidoyce  by  storm,  killing  Nicolas  Ranison,  481 
24-48315 — taken  to  king  in  Thrandheim,  he  stays  there  for  a 
year,  and  then  marches  over-land  into  Ringrealm  with  up- 
wards of  two  thousand  followers,  48318.30 — he  and  K.  Mag- 
nus Erlingson  meet  in  battle  at  Re,  where  Eystein  is  slain, 

484-48517 
EYSTEIN,  King  of  Norway,  1103-1122,  baseborn  son  of  K. 

Magnus  Barefoot,  his  mother  'of  little  kin,'  iii.  233s.9 — mar- 
ried to  Ingibiorg,  d.  of  Guthorm,  the  son  of  Steig-Thorir,  their 
daughter  Maria,  2d<,x.z — after  the  fall  of  his  father,  he  shares 
the  kingdom  of  Norway  by  thirds  with  his  brothers,  Olaf  and 
Sigurd,  247^ — has,  with  Sigurd,  the  trusteeship  of  Olafs 
share  during  the  latter's  minority,  24710.12 — remains  at  home 
in  charge  of  the  kingdom  during  Sigurd's  journey  to  Jerusa- 
lem, 24722-248n — rules  the  land  profitably  in  Sigurd's 
absence,  2  63217 — wins  Jamtland  'by  wisdom,'  2  6325-2  6422 — 
his  person  and  character,  26424-2651 — a  reformer  and  student 
of  law,  2657.n — his  interest  in  Ivar  Ingimundson's  love-affair, 
265n-26722 — interprets  to  Sigurd  his  brother  his  dream, 
26810-2  7o25 — his  advocacy  of  Sigurd  Hranison's  case  against 
K.  Sigurd,  27212-27628 — scandal  talked  about  him  and 
Borghild,  Olaf  o'  Dale's  daughter,  proved  by  ordeal  to  be 
groundless,   27715-27819 — ' manmatching '  between  him  and 

VI.  E 


5<d  Index  I  [eys — eyv 

Sigurd,  followed  by  estrangement  between  the  brothers, 
279-2833 — has  a  large  ship  built  in  the  fashion  of  the  '  Long- 
Worm,'  28320.27  393io-n — builds  great  ship-sheds  (dock-yards) 
at  Nidoyce,  28307-2840  39124-27 — bis  death  and  burial,  2843.16 
— praised  for  his  kindness  to  'us  Icelanders,'  42i0596 
EYSTEIN  THE  TERRIBLE  (E.  harSraSi)  (i.  67™);  the 
Mighty  (inn  riki)  (7223.24  i6ilV),  the  Evil  (inn  illi)  (i6i18), 
the  Evil-minded  (illra^i)  (ii.  276,3),  'King  of  the  Uplands 
who  ruled  over  Heathmark,'  i.  6719.20  7223.24  7723  786  9il7 
9215 — his  conquests  in  Upper  Thrandheim  and  ignominious 
treatment  of  the  conquered  for  killing  his  son,  i6i16-i6216  ii. 

2763-12 
EYSTEIN  TRAVAIL  (E.  trafali),  iii.  387o0 
EYVIND  BRAGGART  (E.  skreyja),  brother  to  Gunnhild,  the 

wife  of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  fought  and  fell  in  the  battle  of  Stord, 

i-    l83ll-14   l8528-l862S 

EYVIND  ELBOW  (E.  olbogi),  Marshal  to  King  Magnus 
Barefoot — accompanies  the  King  on  his  warfare  in  Ireland, 
iii.  23839 — warns  him  to  be  on  his  guard  against  possible 
treachery  of  the  Irish,  24o16.20 — marches  with  the  king  in 
front  of  the  line  of  battle  drawn  up  to  meet  the  Irish  in 
ambush,  24o21.24 — description  of  him,  24o32-24i2 — falls  fight- 
ing with  his  king,  2415-24203 

EYVIND  RENT-CHEEK  (E.  kinnrifa),  a  leader  of  revolted 
Halogaland  against  Olaf  Tryggvison's  project  to  christen 
the  people,  i.  30919.24 — entrapped  by  his  friend,  Harek  of 
Thiotta,  and  sent  to  Olaf  Tryggvison  who,  on  Eyvind's  stead- 
fast refusal  to  be  christened,  tortures  him  to  death,  32  77- 
32820 

EYVIND  THE  SKALD-SPILLER  (E.  skaldaspillir),  son  of 
Finn  and  Gunnhild  the  daughter  of  Earl  Halfdan,  author  of 
the  poem  called  Haloga-Tale,  i.  48  3912-29  I042i"I055  15-22 
27732-27812 — his  way  of  breaking  the  news  of  an  impending 
attack  to  K.  Hakon  the  Good,  iSi^-:^! — his  urging  of 
K.  Hakon  the  Good  to  make  a  stand  against  the  attack  of 
the  sons  of  Eric  at  Fitiar,  in  which  battle  he  fought,  182 
13.24 — author  of  Hakon's  song,  Hakonar  mal,  verses  of  which 
are  interspersed  throughout  the  saga  of  Hakon  the  Good,  to 
the  end  of  which  the  whole  poem  is  subjoined,  i8506.27 
i8322-i8410 1853.20 1864.15  20.28 189-193— gets  into  disgrace  with 


eyv — far]  Index  I  51 

Harald  Greycloak  for  a  song  in  praise  of  Hakon  the  Good's 
victory  over  the  sons  of  Eric ;  but  is  restored  to  favour  again 
by  mutual  friends,  i8o12.22 198^1995 — his  song  on  the  miser- 
liness of  Eric's  sons,  i9924-2oo9 — his  punishment  by  Harald 
Greycloak  and  final  parting  of  the  two,  2oo102ois — his  com- 
memoration of  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir's  death,  2o69.25 — of  hard 
season  in  Halogaland,  2i818.28 — composed  a  song  on  'all  the 
men  of  Iceland,'  who  rewarded  it  by  a  clasp  worth  fifty  marks, 
21 9-H3 — commemorates  in  song  how  he  had  to  sell  his  clasp, 
and  even  his  arrows,  for  fish  to  stave  off  hunger,  2i913-2  2o0 — 
he  dwelt  in  the  island  of  Thiotta  in  Halogaland  in  poverty, 
but  boasted  high  descent  (he  was  by  the  distaff-line  a  great- 
grandson  of  Harald  Hairfair),  ii.  1 8901.„4 

EYVIND  THE  SNAKE  (E.  snakr),  stationed  in  the  forehold 
on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35317 

EYVIND  UROCHSHORN  (E.  urarhorn)  of  Agdir,  a  friend 
of  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  and  a  sea-rover,  ii.  7916.2S — by 
order  of  King  Olaf,  he  kills  the  Swedish  steward,  Roi 
Squinteye,  in  Howesound,  8i5.19 — goes  sea-roving  into  the 
East-ways,  8i19.20 — overtakes  Thorgaut  Harelip  and  slays 
him,  and  secures  for  King  Olaf  all  the  goods  Thorgaut  had 
plundered  from  Gudleik  the  Gautlander,  833.15 — goes  to  Ire- 
land on  viking  raid  and  gets  into  friendly  relations  with  the 
the  Erse-king  Konofogor,  and  fights  with  him  against  Einar, 
Earl  of  Orkney,  i37ao-23 — next  summer,  putting  into  Asmund- 
bay  in  Orkney,  on  his  return  to  Norway,  he  is  attacked  and 
slain  by  Einar,  i7423-i752 — King  Olaf  of  Norway  seizes,  as 
atonement  for  Eyvind,  the  third  part  of  Orkney  that  belonged 
to  Earl  Einar,  i8415.90 

EYVIND  WELLSPRING  (E.  kelda),  son's  son  of  Rognvald 
Straightleg,  the  son  of  Harald  Hairfair,  a  wizard  and  spell- 
worker,  escapes  from  a  hall  to  which  Olaf  Tryggvison  let 
set  fire,  and  wherein  he  burnt  a  number  of  sorcerers,  i.  3i2ls- 
3i314 — fails  in  working  spells  at  Olaf  Tryggvison  on  Easter- 
feast  at  Ogvaldsness  in  Kormt-isle,  and  is  taken  with  his 
fellows  and  tied  to  a  tide-washed  skerry,  where  they  all 
perished,  3I328"3I425 

FALSTER  (The  folk  of)  (Falstrbyggvar),  inhabitants  of  the 
Danish  island  of  Falster,  iii.  5o2 

FAROE-MEN  (Fsereyingar),  ii.  246^  24 72  v  20  20  2  7i(12)24 


52  Index  I  [fas — fin 

FASTI,  an  earl  of  Denmark,  defeats  and  slays  Ottar  Vendilcrow, 

aided  by  Earl  Vat,  i.  472s~483i 
FENI A  (Fenja),  one  of  K.  Frodi's  gold-grinding  bondmaids,  cf. 

Grott.  pros.,  Nor.  Fornkvse^i,  324-325,  ii.  441., 
FENRIR  and  Fenrir's  Wolf  (Fenris-iilfr),  Loki's  son  in  the 

shape  of  a  wolf,  i,  i8o16  i9321  i9815 
FINN  (Finnr),  stationed  in  the  forehold  of  the  Long-Worm,  i. 

353i9 
FINN,  an  archer  on  board  Earl  Eric's  ship  in  the  battle  of 

Svold,  i.  37 1 14-21  . 

FINN,  a  Finnish  wizard,  ill-treated  by  Halfdan  the  Black,  and 
befriended  by  Harald  his  son  (Hairfair),  i.  8519.27 

FINN,  son  of  Ami  Arnmodson,  married  to  Bergliot,  daughter 
of  Halfdan,  son  of  Sigurd  Sow,  and  niece  to  Harald  Hardredy, 
ii.  i9818  iii.  in5.7 — of  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  following,  and 
much  honoured,  i9823.o4 — refuses  to  aid  his  brother  Thorberg 
in  protecting  Stein  Skaptison  in  the  King's  despite,  28253-2833 
— but  changes  his  mind,  and  takes  a  foremost  part  in  bring- 
ing about  peace  and  pardon  for  his  brother  and  Stein,  threat- 
ening that  unless  listened  to  he  and  his  brothers  would  join 
King  Knut,  284^286^ — swears  an  oath  of  faith  and  fealty  to 
King  Olaf,  28514.20  286n.13 — he  enters  the  King's  service, 
2^^i9-2o  2S-29 — commissioned  by  the  King  to  go  to  Halogaland 
and  to  raise  there  a  general  levy  of  men  and  ships,  also  to 
bring  to  justice  Thorir  Hound  for  his  dealings  with  Karli, 
2  8629-2  8  7 13 — his  proceedings  in  respect  of  the  first  part  of 
his  commission,  28718-28813 — failure  of  his  dealings  with 
Thorir  Hound,  28814-29i3 — returns  to  King  Olaf  and  reports 
his  journey  to  him,  29i21.2S — accompanies  King  Olaf  in  his 
flight  from  Norway,  3694 — his  advice  at  K.  Olaf's  council  of 
war  at  Staffmoor,  401^-40 2 15 — the  King,  resting  his  head  on 
Finn's  knee  at  Sticklestead,  has  a  dream  which  Finn  disturbs 
by  awaking  him  on  the  approach  of  the  enemy,  much  to 
Olaf's  regret,  4142.33 — Finn's  opinion  on  Kalf  Arnison's  sin- 
cerity, 42627.2S — fells  Thorstein  Shipwright  at  the  battle  of 
Sticklestead,  4335 — taken  home  wounded  by  his  brother 
Kalf,  whom  Finn  dislikes  for  his  treachery  to  K.  Olaf, 
43523~4365  453313 — takes  truce  of  K.  Svein,  and  settles  down 
at  home  in  quiet,  45316.18 — K.  Knut,  breaking  all  his  promises 
to  Kalf  Arnison,  he  changes  his  mind,  and  a  rapprochement 


fin] 


Index  I  53 


with  Finn  is  effected,  4621S.29 — his  estate,  official  position, 
marriage  relations,  and  great  favour  with  K.  Harald,  11I3.H 
— viking  raids  in  the  West,  mu.M — Finn's  outspoken  esti- 
mate of  Harald  Hardredy's  character  on  hearing  of  the 
murder  of  Einar  and  Eindrid,  iiii6^ — his  diplomatic  action 
on  Harald's  behalf  averts  a  general"  rising  against  the  King, 
iiior-ii42i1 — Harald  refusing  to  carry  out  the  engagements 
on  which  Finn's  diplomacy  was  based,  the  latter  told  the 
King  in  plain  anger  that  he  did  not  keep  his  word,  115-116^ 
— Finn  arranges  terms  of  peace  between  his  brother  Kalf  and 
King  Harald,  ii9.n-i2o10 — misdoubting  him  that  Harald  had 
compassed  Kalf's  death,  he  takes  the  matter  so  to  heart  that 
he  leaves  Norway  and  takes  service  with  K.  Svein  of  Den- 
mark, who  creates  him  his  earl,  I2i10-i2  2n  4731S.19 — will  not 
flee  at  the  battle  of  Niz,and  is  captured,  13  721.?1 — King  Harald, 
after  being  most  grossly  insulted  by  Finn,  gives  him  life  and 
lets  him  go  free  back  into  K.  Svein's  service,  1410-1423 — his 
daughter  Sigrid  given  in  marriage  to  Earl  Orm  Eilifson,  35i5.6 

37*8-9 

FINN,  base-born  son  of  Erling  Askew  by  Asa  the  Light,  111.  47  4r 

FINN  THE  LITTLE  (F.  litli),  a  former  servant  of  King 
Rcerek,  who,  when  his  master  became  prisoner,  served  him 
on  the  sly  in  plotting  against  King  Olaf 's  men,  and  rescuing 
the  blind  King  from  his  imprisonment,  ii.  i269-i3o20 — slays 
Thorir  the  Long,  i30ltH9 

FINN-FOLK  (Finnlendingar)  =  Finns,  ii.  io30 

FINNS  (Finnar),  inhabitants  of  Finnland,  i.  2710  33^  ii.  io15 18 

24  26  30 

FINNS,  inhabitants  of  Finmark,  i.  8521  2i  864  (Swasi  and  Snow- 
fair),  u9o-i2o;  2i82(i  3281G  32914—-"-  38725  432g— "i-    x363 

255s  35630  357i2i9  ,     , 

FINN,  son  of  Sheep-Wolf,  and  brother  to  Peter  Burdenswain, 

hanged  by  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  3597 — avenged  by  his 

brother,  3668.10 

FINN,  son  of  Skopti,  the  son  of  Ogmund,  iii.  2  2  531 — one  of 

King  Magnus  Barefoot's  captains  in  the  fortress  on  Kvaldins- 

isle,  2  2  76 — King  Magnus  having  a  contest  with  Skopti  on  a 

matter  of  heritage,  Finn  proceeds  to  the  King  pleading  his 

father's  case  in  vain,  2353-236^ — accompanies  his  father  on 

a  pilgrimage  to  Rome,  and  dies  on  the  journey,  2373.15 


54  Index  I  [fin — fre 

FINN-WIFE,  i.  i2i46  =  Snowfair. 

FIOLNIR  (Fjolnir),  one  of  Odin's  names,  Odin,  i.  2  7824  iii. 

25°2-2 

FIOLNIR,  son  of  Yngvi  Frey  and  Gerd,  ancestor  of  the  race 
of  the  Ynglings  of  Sweden,  i.  44  2$s — succeeded  his  father  in 
the  rule  over  the  Swedes  and  the  Wealth  of  Upsala,  2418.20 — 
his  death  at  Hleithra,  when  on  a  visit  to  King  Frodi,  by 
drowning  in  a  vat  of  mead,  described,  2424-2  520 

FION-DWELLERS  (Fj6nbuar,  byggvar),  Inhabitants  of  the 
island  of  Fion,  Denmark,  iii.  389  i2i6 

FIRTHS  (Men  of  the)  (FirtSir),  inhabitants  of  the  Norwegian 
Folkland,  the  Firths,  i.  3o821  ii.  42319 

FLEMINGS   (Flaemingjar),  inhabitants   of  Flanders,  i.  26 in 

iii-  43°i5 
FLOSI,  see  Burning-Flosi. 

FOLI,  the  father  of  Thord,  whose  daughter  Gudrun  was  the 
wife  of  Skopti,  the  son  of  Ogmund,  iii.  2  2  530 

FOLKI,  one  of  the  four  sons  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosa  and  Brigida, 
daughter  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3795 

FRANKMEN,  Franks  (Frakkar),  i.e.  Franconians,  i.  25632; 
Normans,  iii.  i8i33;  West-Europeans,  43015  43i20 

FREDERICK  (Fri^rekr)  Barbarossa,  Roman  Emperor,  1152- 
1190,  iii.  2565 

FREDERICK  II.,  grandson  of  the  preceding,  Emperor,  1215- 
1250,  iii.  256,3 

FREY  (Freyr),  also  called  Yngvi-Frey,  i.  44  and  Yngvi,  239  son 
of  Niord  the  Wealthy,  of  the  Vanir  tribe,  given  as  hostage 
to  the  Asfolk,  i325.2S — appointed  by  Odin  temple-priest 
among  the  Asfolk,  i627 — succeeded  Niord  in  the  rule  of  the 
Swedes,  2  222.23 — reared  a  great  temple  at  Upsala  and  endowed 
it  richly,  2  226.28 — his  reign  one  of  great  prosperity  and  plenty, 
2  225  2  32.7 — married  Gerd,  Gymir's  daughter,  23r.s — his  death 
concealed  for  three  years,  during  which  great  offerings  in  gold, 
silver,  and  copper  poured  into  the  mound  made  for  him, 
23i3-22 — worshipped  as  a  god  by  the  Swedes,  45.6  249.15 — 
not  burnt  at  his  death,  2412.13 — called  by  the  Swedes  the 
God  of  the  World,  2413 — the  '  kenning '  Frey's  game  (Freys 
leikr),  io96  is  generally  supposed  to  signify  warfare  (see  also 
note,  p.  38831),  but  seeing  that  Yule  was  especially  Frey's 
great  festivity,  and  Hornklofi  connects  closely  '  Yule-drink- 


fre — fro]  Index  I  55 

ing'  and  'Frey's  game,'  but  refers  to  no  act  of  war,  it  may 
fairly  be  questioned  whether  '  Frey's  leikr '  does  not  refer  to 
festive  celebrations  connected  with  Frey's  special  feast,  con- 
sidering that  part  at  least  of  the  winter  here  referred  to  was 
spent  in  Ranrealm,  a  district  fairly  within  the  sway  of  the 
cult  of  Frey, — Frey  in  other  'kennings,'  i.  1 5 5 19  24518  ii.  43o31 

FREYA  (Freyja),  daughter  of  Niord,  and  wife  of  Odr,  a 
temple  priestess  among  the  Asfolk,  and  the  first  to  teach  them 
wizardry,  i.  i421.24  245 — last  survivor  of  the  gods,  2  328 — her 
great  fame,  23,^-243 — shifty  of  mood,  244— mother  of  Hnoss 
and  Gersemi,  24^5 

FREYWITH  THE  DEAF  (FreyviSr  daufi),  a  counsellor  of 
King  Olaf  the  Swede;  description,  ii.  i6i3.6 — his  outspoken 
condemnation  of  the  King's  dealings  with  Olaf  of  Norway 
and  with  his  own  subjects  in  Sweden,  ii.  i6i13-i6219 — by 
dexterously  manoeuvring  the  revolted  people  he,  in  company 
with  his  brother  Arnwith,  persuades  them  to  elect  James  (On- 
und),  Olaf's  son,  for  king,  i6316-i6523 

FRIGG,  the  wife  of  Odin,  married  his  two  brothers  when  Odin 
was  supposed  to  have  vanished  utterly,  i.  i314.16 

FRIDLEIF  (Fri^leifr),  son  of  Frodi  the  Proud  or  the  Peaceful, 
i.  42-.6  and  father  to  Ali  the  Bold,  4223 

FRIREK  (Frirekr),  the  bearer  of  the  banner  Landwaster  in 
the  battle  of  Stamford  Bridge,  iii.  i720 

FRIREK  COCK-BOAT  (F.kcena),  one  of  the  notable  followers 
of  K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  who  fought  with  him  in  his  last 
encounter  with  Erling  Askew,  iii.  44i14 — joins  with  other 
partisans  of  Hakon  to  keep  his  band  together  after  his  fall, 
leaving  their  ships  in  Raumsdal,  and  marching  overland  east 
to  the  Uplands,  44716.19 — robs  and  slays  the  friends  of  Erling, 
459511 — caught  by  Erling  and  cast  overboard  tied  to  an  an- 
chor, a  deed  much  resented  in  Thrandheim,  where  Frirek's 
was  a  prominent  family,  46o21.2S 

FRISIANS  (Frisar),  i.  256^  2615  36728 

FRODI  (Frdfti),  a  mythic  King  of  Denmark,  i.  19934  (perhaps 
the  same  who  figures  as  a  sea-king  in  S.  E.,  i.  546-)  25903  ii. 

33234 
FRODI  THE  BOLD  (F.  hinn  frakni),  King  of  Denmark,  lends 
K.  Egil  of  Sweden  armed  assistance  against  Tunni,  stipulating 
tribute  from  Sweden  in  return,  which,  not  being  paid  by  Egil's 


56  Index  I  [fro — gau 

successor,  Frodi  invades  Sweden  and  plunders  it  far  and 
wide,  i.  4513.q5  475-17 — while  on  a  war  raid  in  the  Baltic  his 
land  was  invaded  by  K.  Ottar  of  Sweden,  47^-48 

FRODI,  son  of  King  Eystein  of  Heathmark,  joins  Hogni  his 
brother  in  war  against  Harald  Hairfair,  gi^.^ — both  brothers 
slain  at  Ringsacre  in  Heathmark,  Q214.19  o2-932 

FRODI,  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Gyda,  daughter  of  King 
Eric  of  Hordaland,  i.  H410 — proclaimed  King  by  his  father, 
i3i18 — warred  in  the  West  with  his  brother  Thorgils,  and 
was  killed  by  poison,  i3221.06 

FRODI  THE  PROUD  of  the  Peaceful  (hinn  mikillati  eSa 
hinn  frrSsami),  son  of  Dan  the  Proud,  i.  424.5  [but  according 
to  S.  E.,  i.  374,  he  was  son  of  Fridleif,  the  son  of  Skiold,  the 
son  of  Odin],  King  of  Denmark,  creator  of  the  universal  pro- 
found peace,  called  'the  Peace  of  Frodi  (Frd^afrrSr),'  which 
began  in  the  days  when  Frey  ruled  at  Upsala,  i.  2^ — had  his 
seat  at  Hleithra,  2422  cf.  i62 — was  a  great  friend  of  Fiolnir, 
King  of  Sweden,  who  lost  his  life  on  a  visit  to  him,   2422- 

5 1 1    14 

FROSTY  (Frosti),  King  of  the  Finns,  felled  in  battle  by  Agni, 
K.  of  the  Swedes,  i.  3314.!7 

FULLA  (Fulla),  one  of  the  goddesses,  i.  2oo3 

GAMAL  (Gamall),  one  of  King  Harald  Sigurdson's  followers  in 
his  punitive  raid  on  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson,  succeeds  in  sending 
the  Earl  timely  warning  of  the  King's  intention  to  slay  him 
for  having  helped  K.  Svein  Wolfson  to  escape  alive  from  the 
battle  of  Niz,  iii.  i453.15 

GAMLI,  the  oldest  son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunnhild,  i.  145,5 
— goes  with  his  mother  from  Orkney  to  Denmark,  i5918.25 — 
his  fight  against  K.  Hakon  the  Good  at  Rast-Kalf  in  the 
island  of  Fraedi,  and  fall  in  that  battle,  178,-17905  i8olV  1839 

i985 

GANDALF  (Gandalfr),  King  of  Vingulmark,  son  of  Elfgeir 
(King  of  Elf  home  ?),  i.  7220 — loses  one  half  of  Vingulmark 
in  a  war  with  Halfdan  the  Black,  7715.20 — his  sons  take  up  the 
feud  with  Halfdan,  8o7.26 — made  a  war  raid  across  the  Fold- 
firth  into  Harald  Hairfair's  realm  at  Westfold,  and  was  routed 
by  Harald  and  his  general  Guthorm,  9i15  22.24  927.14 

GAUT  (Gautr),  'after  whom  is  Gautland  named,'  i.  567 

GAUT-FOLK,  see  Gauts. 


gau — gei]  Index  I  57 

GAUT  THE  RED  (G.  hinn  rairSi),  a  foster-son  of  Thrand  o' 
Gate,  in  Faroe,  joins  in  Sigurd  Thorlakson's  journey  to  Nor- 
way in  pursuit  of  Thoralf  of  Dimon,  ii.  26926.27  27o1-27412 — 
hoots  Karl  o'  Mere  for  refusing  to  accept  his  foster-father's 
bad  money  in  payment  of  taxes,  3°73r3o85 — sla>'s  Kar1' 
aided  by  Thord  the  Low,  3O910.19— is  outlawed  for  the  deed, 

30900-06 
GAUTHILD  (Gauthildr),  daughter  of  Algaut,  King  of  West- 

gautland,  and  Alof,  daughter  of  Olaf  the  Farsighted,  King  of 

Nerick,  married  Ingiald  Evil-heart,  King  of  Sweden,  i.  563.12 

65,6.2s— her  children,  Asa  Evil-heart  and  Olaf  Tree-shaver, 

6230-635  6506-07 

GAUTI,  son  of  Tovi  (Gauti  Tovason),  his  fight  with  some  Dan- 
ish merchantmen,  ii.  157x0-33 

GAUTLANDERS,  see  Gauts. 

GAUTLAND-FOLK,  see  Gauts. 

GAUTLAND-MEN,  see  Gauts. 

GAUTREK  THE  BOUNTEOUS  (Gautrekr  hinn  mildi),  son 
of  Gaut  'after  whom  is  Gautland  named,'  i.  5 6(V7 

GAUTS  (Gautar),  inhabitants  of  East-  and  West-Gautland,  in 
Sweden,  i.  io9u  lf>  30  no7  1585 14  25914  3484— ii.  772.78n  79io 
8410  86n  ii7n  ii9l7  20  14212  i55ia  22  J56i8  l64i2— m-  I4611 

14931    IS°Vi  22   I5IS  15  22831   23If)  13  24  30  35°32  35*15 

GAUT VI D  (GautviSr),  son  of  Swipdag  the  Blind  and  foster- 
brother  of  Ingiald  Evil-heart,  i.  5500-07  6103.04 
GEFION  (Gefjon),  according  to  '  Gylfaginning,'  S.  E.,  i.  30,  of 
the  race  of  the  Asfolk  (and  in  '  Lokasenna,'  21,  Odin  declares 
her  to  know  the  fate  of  mankind  as  clearly  as  himself),  sent 
by  Odin  to  King  Gylfi  to  seek  new  lands,  and  by  aid  of  her 
giant-begotten  four  sons,  four  oxen,  she  ploughed  out  of  Gylfi's 
land  the  island  of  Selund,  i.  1 5,4-1 614 
GEFN  =  Freyja  (S.  E.,  i.  ii423  35°sio  5573)»  *•  l867 
GEIGAD  (GeigaSr),  the  greatest  of  champions,  i.  38n  18 
GEIRA,  daughter  of  King  Burislaf  in  Wendland,  ruling,  in  her 
own  right,  over  a  dominion  in  that  country,  the  first  wife  of 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  252^^  254^  36o21.22 — her  death,  26o19.21 
GEIRFIN  (Geirfinnr),  an  earl  who  commanded  in  the  town  of 
Gunvaldsburg,  defeated  and  made  prisoner  by  K.Olaf  Harald- 
son,  from  whom  the  town  ransomed  him  for  twelve  thousand 
gold  shillings,  ii.  1904.28  2°7-s 


58  Index  I  [gei — gis 

GEIRI,  an  Icelander,  father  of  Thorkel,  who  was  at  the  battle  on 

Lyrshaw-heath,  iii.  3702 
GEIRMUND  (Geirmundr),  brings  news  to  Earl  Hakon  of  the 

approach  of  the  fleet  of  the  Jomsburgers,  i.  27495-2  7  5S 
GEIRTHIOF  (GeirJ>j6fr),  a  king  in  Saxland,  married  to  Alof 

the  Mighty — his  country  raided  by  Adils,  K.  of  the  Swedes, 

i.  497-17 

GEITIR,  a  legendary  sea-king,  i.  134,3 

GELLIR,  son  of  Thorkel,  grandfather  of  Ari  the  Learned,  i. 
518 — goes,  in  obedience  to  a  message  from  King  Olaf  Harald- 
son,  by  Thorarin  Nefiolfson,  to  Norway,  and  stays  with  King 
Olaf,  ii.  24919.29 — is  sent  by  the  King  in  the  following  summer 
to  Iceland  in  order  to  negotiate  with  the  Icelanders,  by  cajol- 
ery and  threats,  the  subjection  of  Iceland  to  Norway,  2  7417- 
275h  cf-  294n-i4 — tne  Icelanders  having  with  one  accord 
rejected  King  Olaf's  proposals  unconditionally,  Gellir  goes 
back  to  Norway  and  meets  King  Olaf  as  he  returns  to  Norway 
after  the  defeat  at  the  Holy  River,  2  7514.22  33319.21 

GERD  (Ger^r),  d.  of  the  giant  Gymir,  wife  of  Frey,  i.  2  3r.s — 
in  'kennings'  for  women,  27821.23  iii.  7533  9420  234,5 

GERSEMI,  daughter  of  Odr  and  Freyja,  i.  24^ 

GIFFORD  (GiparSr),  a  Welshman,  offers  his  services  to  K. 
Magnus  Barefoot  and  is  well  received,  iii.  22822.2S — putting  in 
an  appearance  at  the  fight  of  Foxern  first  when  it  was  all  over, 
he  becomes  an  object  of  unflattering  raillery,  2  2  910.2S — Eld- 
iarn  the  Icelandic  poet's  fun  with  him,  22903-23009 

GILCHRIST,  see  Harald  Gilli. 

GILL  BACKRIFT  (Gilli  bakrauf),  iii.  2i632 

GILLI,  Speaker-at-law  of  the  Faroes,  goes  to  Norway  in  obedi- 
ence to  an  order  of  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  together  with  many 
other  representatives  of  the  Faroe  folk;  becomes  a  member 
of  the  King's  household  and  bodyguard,  and  with  the  rest 
promises  that  the  islands  shall  become  an  integral  part  of  the 
Norwegian  realm,  ii.  246^-24 724 — summoned  again  to  Nor- 
way by  King  Olaf,  he  agrees  with  other  chiefs  of  Faroe  to 
leave  the  mission  to  Thoralf  of  Dimon,  269r.ls — his  parti- 
cipation in  the  affair  resulting  from  Karl  o'  Mere's  mission  to 
the  Faroes,  30421.25  29~3°5s — takes  up,  together  with  Leif 
Ozurson,  the  bloodsuit  after  Karl,  30921.26 

GISL,  son  of  Visbur  and  a  daughter  of  Aude  the  Wealthy,  i. 


giu — gol]  Index  I  59 

28-.-— disinherited  together  with  his  brother  Ondur  by  their 
father,  wherefore  the  brothers  lay  on  him  a  spell  of  evil  power, 

28 

GIUKUNGS,  the  family  of  the  mythic  King  Giuki,  represented 
in  works  of  art  at  the  Hippodrome  in  Micklegarth,  iii.  26ols 

GIZUR  GOLDBROW  (Gizurr  gullbra),  fosterfather  of  Temple- 
garth-Ref,  an  Icelandic  poet,  called  Gizur  the  Swart  at  the 
court  of  Olaf  the  Swede-king,  ii.  9i19.20  4O4.20— receives  Hialti 
Skeggison  in  a  friendly  manner,  92r.22  94is-io — introduces 
Hialti  to  the  Princess  Ingigerd,  95ie-24— is  let  by  HiaJti  into 
the  secret  of  his  mission  to  the  Swedish  court,  ioi4.g— is  with 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson  at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  404.^— his 
song  of  encouragement  before  the  battle,  4°5io-i9 — s^am  m 
the  battle,  43o.>>34 

GIZUR  THE  SWART  (G.  svarti),  the  same  as  Gizur  Goldbrow 

ii.  9 1 19.20 
GIZUR  OF  VALDRES,  a  captain  in  Earl  Hakon's  host  in  the 

battle  of  Hiorungwick,  slain  by  the  Jomsviking  Howard  Hew- 

PI"     1      2o2      -20*2- 

GIZUR  THE  WHITE  (G.  hviti),  son  of  Teit,  the  son  of 
Ketilbiorn,  an  Icelandic  noble,  favourite  with  Olaf  Tryggvison 
and  chiefly  instrumental  in  introducing  Christianity  in  Ice- 
land, i.  33425-2S  (n-  89o)  335s-6  3392r34°i-.>  354i3-i5  20-25 

GLAMMI,  a  sea-king  of  fame,  i.  239^  in.  3822 

GLUM  (Glumr),  son  of  Geiri,  an  Icelandic  poet,  i.  i556.2o  160^ 

l8°12-13   J 98mo  2OI20-31   2I59-1S2 394-22   243M6 

GODGUEST  (GoSgestr),  King  of  Halogaland,  died  through  fall 
from  the  horse  Raven,  a  gift-horse  from  King  Adils  of  Sweden, 


L    5°26-Sl 


GODWIN  (GuSini),  Earl,  son  of  Wolfnoth,  married  to  Gyda, 
the  daughter  of  Thorgils  Sprakalegg,  their  children,  ii.  32610.u 
—his  daughter,  Gyda,  married  to  K.  Edward  the  Confessor, 

iii-  I55is-i9 — his  sons,  i5725~l634 
GOLD-HARALU  (Gullharaldr),  son  of  Knut  Gormson,  and 
nephew  of  K.  Harald  Gormson,  a  great  warrior,  and  deemed 
entitled  to  kingdom  in  Denmark,  i.  2 1712.18— becomes  great 
friend  of  Hakon  the  Earl  of  Ladir,  and  confides  to  him  his 
aspirations  to  kingly  dominion  in  Denmark,  wherein  he  is 
encouraged  by  Hakon,  23214..25— broaching  the  matter  to  his 
uncle  he  receives  an  angry  reply,  232^-2337  234^7 — imparts 


60  Index  I  [gon — gra 

to  Earl  Hakon  his  intention  to  carry  out  his  plan  by  force 
of  arms,  2  330.30 — enters  into  Earl  Hakon's  wily  plan  of  be- 
coming a  candidate  for  the  throne  of  Norway,  2  3610.23  cf. 
23428-23615 — goes  to  attack  Harald  Greycloak,  K.  of  Norway, 
coming  to  Denmark  on  an  invitation  from  Harald  Gormson, 
and  slays  him  in  battle  at  the  Neck  in  Limbfirth,  237^-2382 
24-23922 — is  himself  attacked  in  turn  by  Earl  Hakon  and 
hanged  on  a  gallows,  24o3.n  cf.  2385.33 

GONDUL  (Gondul),  a  'Valkyrja,'  i.  i8733  i89f)  is>i13— ii.  59is 
io919 — iii.  254n 

GORM  THE  OLD  (Gormr  hinn  gamli),  son  of  Horda-Knut 
[the  son  of  Arnfinn],  sole  King  of  Denmark,  i.  8310.n  9329 
9415  ii.  2  53l7.O0;  father  of  Knut  and  Harald,  2i713  2333  2  34l7 
— Gorm's  son,  better  G.'s  descendant  (attungr),  a  kenning  for 
Knut  the  Mighty,  his  great-grandson,  3i420 

GOTH-GOD  (Gauta-Tyr),  the  'Goths'  avail,'  Odin,  i.  189,5 

GOTLANDERS  (Gotar),  inhabitants  of  the  island  of  Got- 
land, ii.  8.x, 

GOWK-THORIR  (Gauka-)5drir),  a  waylayer;  he  and  Afrafasti 
go  with  their  company  and  offer  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  their 
service,  ii.  3948.30— their  offer  being  rejected  on  religious 
grounds,  they  follow  the  King's  host  on  their  own  account, 
39431-39527 — Gowk-Thorir,  with  his  company,  is  christened, 
3995.31— he  falls  in  the  first  brunt  at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead, 
42832 

GRAM  (gramr),  in  ancient  days  the  name  of  a  lord  that  went 
a-warring,  i.  3222.23 — the  warriors  bore  collectively  the  plural 
name  'gramir,'z$. 

GRANI,  an  Icelandic  poet,  sings  of  the  ransoming  of  the 
daughters  of  Thorkel  Gusher,  iii.  964.n 

GRANKEL  or  Granketil  (Grankell  e^a  Granketill),  a  goodman 
of  Halogaland,  personal  description,  ii.  i9i21.26 — gives  a 
goodly  banquet  to  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  on  his  visit  to  Haloga- 
land, 1923.5— owner  of  an  island  rich  in  produce,  over  the 
possession  of  which  he  and  his  son  Asmund  come  to  quarrel 
with  Harek  of  Thiotta,  and  gain  their  case,  2924-2948 — burnt 

in  his  house  by  Harek,  347n-27  42°io-i3 
GRANMAR  (Granmarr),  King"  of  Southmanland  in  Sweden, 
escaped  being  burned  at  Upsala  with  other  kinglets  of  Sweden, 
i.  586.7— hears  of  the  burning  and  takes  his  counsel,  5910-i3 


gre] 


Index  I  6 1 


— his  entertainment  of,  and  alliance  with,  the  viking  King 
Hiorvard,  59i3-6o — his  wars  with  Ingiald,  and  death  through 
the  latter 's  treachery,  6i-6222 
GREEKS  (Grikkir,  Girkir),  iii.  6i13  622S  30  7 1*5  26os  43os  12  ,9 

43I20 

GREGORY,  son  of  Day  Eilifson  and  of  Ragnhild,  the  d.  of 

Skopti  Ogmundson,  iii.  352,3— takes  service  with  King  Ingi 
Haraldson  and  becomes  his   great   favourite,   377io-24 — K- 
Sigurd  Haraldson  forming  a  plan  with  his  brother  Eystein  to 
depose  their  crippled  brother  Ingi,  Gregory  defeats  the  plot, 
and  puts  an  end  to  Sigurd's  consequent  policy  of  provocation 
by  slaying  him  at  Biorgvin,  3850-390^ — is  prevented  by  the 
people  from  falling  upon  Eystein,  39on.21 — escapes  from  an 
attack  by  King  Eystein  on  his  manor  of  Bentberg,  which  Ey- 
stein destroys,  live  stock  and  all,  39o2r39i24 — he  is  awarded 
fifteen  marks  from   K.  Eystein  for  the  destruction  of  his 
property,  39217.18 — he  and  Ingi  win  over  from  Eystein  many 
of  his   supporters,   39230-3932— he   takes  command  of  the 
strong  place  of  Kings'  Rock  on  behalf  of  Ingi,  39918.19— his 
dealings  with  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  at  Kings'  Rock,  39921- 
4oi29 — his  estimate  of  Icelanders  as  soldiers,  4oi30-4O22 — 
keeps  with  K.  Ingi  in  the  Wick  watching  an  opportunity  to 
fall   on    Hakon    Shoulderbroad,  4°2i2-io — witn  K-   In&J   in 
Biorgvin,  where  Hakon  eludes  his  vigilance,  4°3i-i<; — ^s  Part 
in  the  battle  of  the  Elf  against  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  4°3is" 
4I^i7 — goes  from  the  battle  north  into  the  Wick  and  winters 
there,  4i5is.2() — takes  pledge  of  King  Ingi  that  Sigurd  of 
Reyr.his  near  relative,  shall  retain  all  his  possessions,  4  i52V.29 — 
dissatisfied  with  Erling  Askew's  inactivity  at  Biorgvin  in  face 
of  Hakon's  uncompromising  attitude  in  Thrandheim,  4l6ie-2i 
— goes  with  K.  Ingi  to  Biorgvin,  416^  25 — accidentally  drawn 
into  a  fight,  on  the  bridges  in  Biorgvin,  between  his  brother- 
in-law  Haldor  and  Biorn,  the  nephew  of  Erling  Askew,  4l62<f 
4i823— goes  with  K.  Ingi  east  into  the  Wick  in  pursuit  of 
Hakon,  and  takes  up  his  station  at  Kings' Rock,  4l823-2s — 
his  onset  on  Hakon  at  Saur-Byes,  41932.1 — in  seeking  to 
avenge  on  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  the  slaying  of  his  brother- 
in-law  Haldor  Bryniolfson,  he  is  shot  down  crossing  the  river 
Befia,    1 161,    4i927-42i23 — his    character,    42I2i-2i; — next   to 
Eystein  the  elder,  the  greatest  friend  of  Icelanders  in  Norway, 


62  Index  I  [gre — gri 

42i2fr27 — his  body  taken  to  Hofund  and  buried  at  Gimsey  at 
the  nuns'  seat  there,  42i27.30— King  Ingi's  grief  at  his  fall,  and 
devotion  to  his  memory,  4223-3i  42327"4244  425<ho — Gregory's 
house-carles  make  common  cause  with  Erling  Askew  against 
Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  435512  43723-25 

GRELAD  (GreloS),  daughter  of  Dungad,  Earl  of  Caithness, 
married  to  Thorfin  Skull-cleaver,  ii.  i6827-i692 

GRIMKEL  (Grimkell),  the  court  bishop  of  King  Olaf  Harald- 
son,  his  and  his  clerks'  seats  in  the  King's  hall,  ii.  6720.21— by 
his  and  other  clerks'  counsel,  Olaf  Haraldson  draws  up  canon- 
law  for  Norway,  6818.20— remained,  at  K.  Olaf's  request, 
at  his  missionary  duty"  in  the  Uplands  during  the  King's 
flight  to  Russia,  4544.10— at  the  request  of  the  people  of 
Thrandheim  he  goes  to  Nidoyce  to  look  after  matters  in  con- 
nection with  K.  Olaf's  holiness,  4544.6  10-15— his  conduct  in 
the  affair  until,  with  K.  Svein  Alfiva's  son's  consent,  he  de- 
clares K.  Olaf  to  be  a  verily  holy  man,  454^-4570 

GRIM  RAKE  (Grimr  rush),  goes  off  to  Micklegarth  with  Kris- 
tin, the  wife  of  Earl  Erling  Askew,  where  they  have  sundry 
children  together,  iii.  474n-u 

GRIM,  son  of  Thorgils  the  son  of  Halma,  aids  his  father  in 
securing  the  body  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  ii.  444-445,  4475- 

4497  45427-4S54  ,  .  c  0.       ,  „      ,. 

GRIM  from  Vist,  father  to  Andres,  a  partisan  of  Sigurd  Slembi- 

Deacon,  iii.  35614 

GRIOTGARD,  read  Griotgarth. 

GRIOTGARTH  THE  BRISK  (G.  roskvi),  stationed  in  the 
forehold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35320 

GRIOTGARTH  (GrjdtgarSr)  the  elder,  son  of  Earl  Hakon 
Griotgarthson,  of  Ladir,  slain  in  Harald  Hairfair's  second 
battle  of  Solskel,  i.  io230.32 

GRIOTGARTH  the  younger,  son  of  Earl  Hakon  Griotgarth- 
son, and  younger  brother  to  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir;  having  no 
title  of  honour  he  went  in  summer  on  viking  raids,  i.  203a7.22 
— plots  with  Gunnhild  and  Harald  Graycloak  against  the  life 
of  his  brother,  2044.28 — in  company  with  Harald  and  Erling 
he  burns  Earl  Sigurd  in  his  house  at  Oglo,  2O510.20 — appointed 
by  Harald  Graycloak  governor  of  North-Mere,  and  is  slain 
in  battle  there  by  his  nephew  Hakon  Sigurdson,  Earl  of 
Ladir,  2i620-2i76 


gri — gud]  Index  I  63 

GRIOTGARTH,  son  of  Olvir  of  Eggja,  rises  in  rebellion  against 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson  in  order  to  avenge  the  death  of  his  brother 
Thorir,  344v-n — K.  Olaf,  hearing  of  it,  attacks  him  in  his 
house  and  slays  him,  34413-3454 

GRIOTGARTH  of  Yrjar,  father  to  Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir,  i. 

9604 
GRITGARTH,  read  Griotgarth,  the  father  of  Hreidar,  who  was 

killed  in  the  battle  at  Holm-the-Gray,  iii.  3627 

GROA  (Groa),  daughter  of  Thorstein  the  Red,  married  to  Dun- 
gad,  Earl  of  Caithness,  their  daughter  Grelad,  wife  of  Thorfin 
Skull-cleaver,  Earl  of  Orkney,  ii.  i68.,7-i693 

GRYTING  (Grytingr),  King  of  Orkdale,  fights  with  Harald 
Hairfair,  and,  being  defeated,  swears  fealty  to  him,  i.  9521.29 

GUDBRAND  (GuSbrandr),  a  'hersir'  of  the  Dales,  lends 
armed  aid  to  Eystein,  King  of  Heathmark,  against  Halfdan 
the  Black,  i.  7822.24 — enters  an  alliance  with  Hogni  and  Frodi, 
sons  of  King  Eystein  of  Heathmark,  and  with  Hogni  Kara- 
son  at  Ringsacre,  against  Harald  Hairfair,  who  burns  Gud- 
brand  in  his  house  there,  9214.30 

GUDBRAND  A-DALE  (Dala-GuBbrandr),  makes  an  alliance 
with  Earl  Hakon  Sigurdson  of  Ladir,  Tryggvi  Olafson,  and 
Gudrod  Biornsson  against  Gunnhild's  sons,  i.  2io311 

GUDBRAND  A-DALES  (Dala-GuSbrandr),  a  'hersir'  over 
'the  Dales,'  i.e.  over  Gudbrandsdale,  over  which  he  bore  sway 
like  a  king,  ii.  2oo19.32 — in  might  and  wide  lands  a  peer  of 
Erling  Skialgson,  20022.32 — his  unavailing  struggle  against  K. 
Olaf  Haraldson's  missionary  campaign  in  his  dominion,  2oi2- 
2o831 — converted  to  Christianity  and  baptized  by  the  court 
bishop  Sigurd,  2o831-2092 — builds  the  first  church  in  Gud- 
brandsdale, 209.^.3 

GUDBRAND  KULA  (G.  kula),  father  of  Asta  the  wife  of  K. 
Harald  the  Grenlander,  i.  284,,  31  ix  and  of  Isrid,  wife  of 
Thord  Bigbelly,  ii.  249., — fosters  Olaf,  son  of  Harald  the 
Grenlander  (O.  Holy),  his  grandson,  i.  28714.19 

GUDBRAND,  son  of  Shavehew,  married  to  Maria,  daughter  of 
K.  Eystein  Magnusson  and  Ingibiorg,  d.  of  Guthorm,  son  of 
Steig-Thorir,iii.  2654 — fallson  the  sideof  King  Ingi  Haraldson 
in  the  battle  of  Oslo  against  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  426ls — 
his  son,  Olaf  Unlucky,  3741-19 

GUDBRAND  THE  WHITE  (G.   hviti),  a  captain  in  Earl 


64  Index  I  [gud 

Eric's  division  of  Earl  Hakon's  fleet  in  the  battle  of  Hiorung- 
wick,  i.  2  7715 

GUDLAUG  (GkrSlaugr),  King  of  Halogaland,  defeated  and 
hanged  by  the  sons  of  Yngvi  Alrekson,  i.  396.29 — avenged  by 
his  son,  Gylaug,  4i.,.06 

GUDLEIK  THE  GARTHREALMER  (GuSleikr  gerzki),  a 
great  trader  in  Russian  goods,  whence  his  by-name,  enters 
partnership  with  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  and  takes  his  com- 
mission for  procuring  costly  stuffs  for  the  King's  robes  of 
state.  On  the  return  voyage  he  is  slain  by  Thorgaut  Hare- 
lip, who  robbed  all  the  goods  for  the  benefit  of  King  Olaf  of 
Sweden,  ii.  81  .-,3-83.7 

GUDMUND  (GuBmundr),  son  of  Ari  Thorgeirson,  Bishop  of 
Holar  in  Iceland,  1 203-1 237,  iii.  476.,,, 

GUDMUND  THE  MIGHTY  (G.  hinn  riki)  of  Maddermead, 
son  of  Eyolf,  i.  33420 — alternately  singled  out  by  King  Olaf 
Haraldson  as  keeper  of  the  blinded  Upland  King  Roerek,  ii. 
I35s4-25 — Roerek  not  feeling  at  home  with  Thorgils  Arison 
requests  to  be  taken  to  Gudmund,  who  entertains  him  for 
one  year,  and  then  rids  himself  of  him  by  lodging  him  at  the 
small  tenement  of  Calfskin,  i3616.2r — his  aid  sought  by  King 
Olaf  for  obtaining  possession  of  the  island  of  Grimsey,  24229- 
243s — Gudmund  and  his  followers'  compliance  thwarted  by 
his  brother  Einar's  intervention,  2439-24430 — invited,  together 
with  other  chiefs  of  Iceland,  by  Thorarin  Nefiolfson,  in  the 
name  of  King  Olaf,  to  come  to  Norway  to  meet  the  King,  an 
invitation  of  which  G.  did  not  avail  himself,  245-2465 — his 
death  (1025),  24924.25 — genealogical  reference  to,  iii.  i533.6 

GUDRID  (Gu^rfSr),  daughter  of  Birgir  and  sister  to  Jon, 
Archbishop  of  Nidoyce,  Eric  Oddson's  authority  for  his  ac- 
count of  Ivar  Dint's  execution,  iii.  363^ 

GUDRID,  daughter  of  Guthorm  Steig-Thorirson,  avers  that 
she  saw  in  her  father's  possession  the  mazer-bowl  which 
Harald  the  Hardredy  gave  to  Steig-Thorir,  iii.  862h.99  873.6 

GUDROD  (Gu^ro^r),  son  of  King  Biorn  the  Chapman,  i.  i3431 
— fostered,  after  his  father's  death,  by  his  uncle  Olaf,  1425 — 
flies,  with  his  foster-brother,  Tryggvi  Olafson,  to  the  Uplands 
after  the  fall  of  K.  Olaf  at  Tunsberg  in  battle  against  Eric 
Bloodaxe,  i4429.30 — joins  Hakon  the  Good  against  Eric 
Bloodaxe,  i5i7.n — receives  from  Hakon  the  Good  the  title 


gud]  Index  I  65 

of  king,  together  with  the  dominion  of  Westfold,  i5i14.ls — 
confirmed  in  his  title  and  dominion  on  the  accession  of 
Eric's  sons  to  power,  i9715.24  2°2kms — makes  an  alliance 
against  Gunnhild's  sons  with  Earl  Hakon,  Gudbrand  a-Dale, 
and  Tryggvi  Olafson,  2io3.n — while  guesting  up-country  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Tunsberg  he  is  set  upon,  at  night,  by 
Harald  Greycloak  and  killed,  2ii24-2i22— (Of  Gudrod,  as  of 
his  father,  Snorri  says  '  he  married  well  and  meetly '  without 
mentioning  the  wife's  name) ;  he  left  a  son,  Harald  the  Gren- 
lander,  2i2v.9 

GUDROD  (GoSro^r),  son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunnhild,  i. 
145- — hearing  of  Earl  Hakon  Sigurdson's  alliance  with  the 
Upland  lords,  he  gives  out  that  next  spring  he  will  go  on  a 
war-voyage,  2ion.ls — at  the  ale  of  parting  he  and  Harald, 
who  was  to  join  in  the  expedition,  nearly  came  to  blows  over 
the  drinking  game  'man-likening,'  and  parted  company,  2iols- 
2ii4 — sailing  east  to  the  Wick  and  across  the  Fold,  he 
arranges  with  K.  Tryggvi  Olafson  a  tryst  at  Walls,  east  of 
Sotaness,  and  with  his  men  falls  treacherously  on  Tryggvi  and 
slays  him  there,  21 14.21 — searches  for  Tryggvi's  widow,  22415.19 
— with  his  brother,  Sigurd  Slaver,  he  is  left  in  governorship  of 
Thrandheim  by  Harald  Greycloak,  2i44.g — clears,  with  his 
brother,  out  of  Thrandheim  on  Earl  Hakon's  return  in 
autumn,  and  abides  in  the  Mere,  2i414.24 — gathers  with 
Harald  his  brother  fresh  host  for  Thrandheim,  which  they 
occupy  first  when  Earl  Hakon  leaves  the  countryfor  Denmark, 
21 617-22  2I 721-29 — Aies  w^tn  ms  m°ther  and  Ragnfrod,  his 
brother,  to  Orkney,  on  Hakon  being  appointed  Harald  Gorm- 
son's  viceroy,  24il7.23  cf.  2435 — leads  a  warfaring  life  in 
western  countries  until  Olaf  Tryggvison  has  been  king  in 
Norway  for  four  years  (999),  when  he  returns  with  many 
ships  to  the  Wick,  where  he  is  slain  by  the  King's  brothers- 
in-law  Hyrning  and  Thorgeir,  34i93-34230  , 

GUDROD  GLEAM  (G.  Ij6mi),  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and 
Snowfair,  daughter  of  Swasi,  i.  i2o3 — repudiated  by  his 
father,  I2IM — restored  to  favour  at  the  instance  of  Thiodolf 
of  Hvin,  i2i7-i223  with  whom,  at  Harald's  behest,  he  takes 
up  his  abode,  i2  21.3 — revolts  against  his  father,  and  in 
company  with  his  brother  Halfdan  Highleg  burns  in  his 
house  Rognvald  the  Mere-earl,  and  seizes  the  rule  over  his 

VI.  F 


66  Index  I  [gud 

dominion,  i2415.29 — expelled  by  King  Harald  east  to  Agdir, 
i2  5j.5 — appointed  king  by  his  father,  13120-22 — perished  by 
shipwreck  off  the  Jadar,  sailing  from  Agdir  to  Rogaland, 

I33m-i34m 

GUDROD,  a  king  of  Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  4i25 — joins  the  other 

Upland  kinglets  in  supporting  Olaf  Haraldson's  struggle  for 
the  crown  of  Norway,  4i18  4424 — joins  in  a  conspiracy  with 
other  four  Upland  kings  against  Olaf  for  his  cruelty  to  heathen 
Uplanders,  io3n-io6 — seized  at  Ringacre  with  his  fellow- 
conspirators  by  King  Olaf,  who  has  his  tongue  cut  out,  io88.29 

GUDROD,  son  of  Halfdan  Whiteleg,  i.  6720.21 

GUDROD  the  Hunter-King,  or  the  Proud  (G.  vei^ikonungr 
e^a  hinn  mikillati),  son  of  Halfdan  Eysteinson  the  Bounte- 
ous and  the  Meatgrudging,  King  of  Raumrick  and  Westfold, 
and  one  half  of  Vingulmark,  married,  first,  Elfhild,  d.  of  King 
Alfarin  of  Elf  home;  secondly,  Asa,  daughter  of  K.  Harald 
Redlip  of  Agdir,  whom  Gudrod  slew,  he  being  in  turn  slain 
by  Asa's  foot-page,  in  Stiflasound,  i.  7o24-7212 — his  sons  lose 
a  great  part  of  the  realm  he  left  them,  7218.28 

GUDROD,  son  of  Olaf  Butterbread,  King  of  the  South  Isles, 
in  the  host  of  King  Ingi  before  Oslo,  hi.  42426.27 — flees  before 
King  Hakon's  men,  A2S\-b 

GUDROD,  King  of  Scania  (i.e.  of  Skaney),  married  to  Asa 
Evil-heart,  who  encompassed  his  death,  i.  639.16 

GUDROD  SKIRJA  (G  skirja),  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and 
Ashild,  daughter  of  Ring  Dayson,  i.  ii420.21 — kept  at  his 
father's  court,  but  was  endowed  with  large  grants  about 
(Hordland(?)  and)  Sogn,  i3i2f.29 

GUDRUN  (Gu^run),  daughterVf  Einar  son  of  Ari  of  Reek- 
knolls,  married  to  Ogmund  of  Sand  in  Tentisle  in  Haloga- 
land,  iii.  3562s-30 

GUDRUN,  daughter  of  Jarnskeggi  or  Iron  Skeggi  of  Uphowe 
in  Yriar,  chosen  in  marriage  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  atone- 
ment for  her  father's  death,  attempts  his  life  the  first  night 
of  the  bridal  and  parts  from  him  for  ever,  i.  3226.19 

GUDRUN,  d.  of  Nefstein  and  of  Ingirid  (Ingigerd  is  a  mis- 
print), the  d.  of  K.  Sigurd  Sow  and  Asta,  the  parents  of 
Harald  Hardredy,  Gudrun  being  thus  a  niece  of  Olaf  the 
Holy,  given  by  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet  in  marriage  to  Skuli  Tosti's 
son,  'king's  fosterer,'  iii.  i844.9 


gud — gun]  Index  I  67 

GUDRUN  of  Saltness,  mother  of  John  Kitten,  Sigurd  and 
William,  all  of  whom  joined  the  band  of  Eystein,  '  King ' 
of  the  Birchlegs,  iii.  48325 

GUDRUN,  Sun  of  Lund,  should  read  Sun  of  the  Groves  (Map), 
(G.  Lundasol),  the  daughter  of  Bergthor  and  wife  of  Worm 
Lyrgia,  sent  for  by  Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir  that  he  might 
dishonour  her — her  reproachful  reply,  i.  2927.2(j 

GUDRUN,  daughter  of  Thord  the  son  of  Foli,  the  wife  of 
Skopti,  son  of  Ogmund,  her  children,  iii.  2  2529.31 

GUNN  (Gunnr),  a  Valkyrja,  ii.  n20  36o32 

GUNNAR  of  Gelmin  (Gunnarr  af  Gelmini),  supporter  of  K. 
Olaf  Haraldson  in  his  strife  for  the  kingdom  of  Norway,  ii. 

4815 
GUNNAR  of  Gimsar  joins  the  following  of  Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon  and  Magnus  the  Blind,  iii.  3497 — falls  in  the  battle 

at  Mouth,  349:>r350i 

GUNNAR  RENTMASTER,  iii.  44i15 

GUNNHILD  (Gunnhildr),  the  daughter  of  Burislaf,  King  in 
Wendland,  i.  2  5210 — married  to  Svein  Twibeard,  King  of 
Denmark,  their  sons :  Knut  the  Mighty  (Great)  and  Harald, 
27In  i5i7  34824-26— her  death,  34820.27  [According  to  Dit- 
mar  of  Merseburg  Svein  put  her  away  and  sent  her  to  Wend- 
land, and  at  his  death  her  sons,  Knut  and  Harald,  restored 
her  to  her  rights  in  Denmark.] 

GUNNHILD,  daughter  of  Earl  Halfdan  and  Ingibiorg,  a 
daughter  of  Harald  Hairfair,  mother  to  Eyvind  Skaldspiller, 
i.  i9827.28  ii.  i9o5.7 

GUNNHILD,  daughter  of  Knut  the  Mighty  and  Emma,  u. 
27h — wedded  to  Kaiser  Henry  (III.)  of  Saxland,  iii.  2518.20 
— died  three  years  afterwards  (1040),  2  523 

GUNNHILD,  the  reputed  daughter  of  Ozur  Tot,  a  lord  in 
Halogaland,  i.  i295.8 — found  in  a  Finmark  cot  studying 
wizardry  she  is  brought  to  Eric  Bloodaxe,  who,  struck  with 
her  great  beauty,  obtains  her  in  marriage,  i.  1293-130 — held 
by  common  rumour  guilty  of  having  caused  K.  Halfdan 
the  Black  of  Thrandheim  to  be  killed  by  poison,  I42i4-i8 — 
personal  description,  children,  i452-s — ^ees  w*tn  ner  sons> 
after  the  fall  of  her  husband,  to  Orkney,  where  she  resides 
with  them  for  a  time,  i542o-I5522 — on  hearing  that  war  had 
broken   out  between  Norway  and  Denmark,  she  quits  the 


68  Index  I  [gun 

Orkneys  and  goes  to  K.  Harald  Gormson  with  all  her  family, 
and  is  received  hospitably  and  provided  with  lands  for  her 
support,  i5912-i5  21-26 — wrien  her  sons  succeeded,  after  the 
death  of  Hakon  the"  Good,  to  power  in  Norway,  she  meddles 
much  in  affairs  of  state  and  acquires  the  title  '  Kings'  Mother,' 
I97su — sne  urges  her  sons  to  rid  them  of  Earl  Sigurd  of 
Ladir,  20  27-20312— her  plotting  with  Griotgarth  against  the 
life  of  his  brother,  Earl  Sigurd,  2044.28— her  guileful  love  for 
Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir,  2o88.10 — takes  counsel  with  her  sons 
on  hearing  of  Hakon  the  Ladir-Earl's  alliance  with  Gud- 
brand  a-Dale  and  the  Wick  Kings,  Tryggvi  and  Gudrod, 
2ion.14 — concerts  plans  with  her  sons  for  the  kidnapping  of 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  2  241S,.2(5 — sends  spies  to  find  out  the  where- 
abouts of  Astrid,  Olaf's  mother,  and  her  infant  son,  2  2  53.10 
— sends  Hakon,  who  fails,  to  secure  the  person  of  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  225n-22716 — sends  Hakon  again  on  the  same 
errand,  with  a  request  to  the  King  of  Sweden  to  further  her 
purpose,  2  2  723-2  284 — Hakon  reports  to  her  again  his  failure, 
2  2  85.24 — Her  son  K.  Harald  Greycloak  consults  her  as  to  the 
advisability  of  accepting  Harald  Gormson's  invitation  to 
Denmark,  2  374.6 — Har.  Greycloak  having  been  treacherously 
slain  in  Denmark,  Gunnhild  leaves  Norway  again  for  Orkney, 

24I 17-28  ,    . 

GUNNHILD,  daughter  of  King  Sigurd  Syr  (Sow)  and  Asta  the 
daughter  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  ii.  3527 — given  in  marriage  by 
her  half-brother,  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  to  Ketil  Calf  (Kalf) 
of  Ringness,  248^..^ — her  daughter  Sigrid,  iii.  io610.13 — her 
son,  Guthorm,  in14 

GUNNHILD,  daughter  of  Earl  Svein,  son  of  Earl  Hakon  the 
Mighty,  married  (second  time)  to  Svein  Wolfson,  K.  of  Den- 
mark, iii.  io625.28  (The  statement,  ii.  3312-i5  that  she  was 
married  to  Aslak,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson,  is  contradicted,  iii. 
io624.2(5  where,  in  agreement  with  all  other  sources,  Aslak's 
wife"  is  said  to  have  been  Sigrid,  Gunnhild's  sister,  see  Sigrid, 
daughter  of  Earl  Svein.) 

GUNNHILD,  wife  of  Simon,  son  of  Thorberg,  foster-mother  to 
K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  iii.  37320 — causes  a  witch-woman 
1  to  sit  out '  in  order  to  find  by  what  magic  means  victory  can 
be  secured  to  the  arms  of  her  foster-son,  4245.12 

GUNNHILD'S  SONS.    See  Eric's  sons. 


gun — gut]  Index  I  69 

GUNNI  FISS,  son  of  Saemund  Housewife  and  Ingibiorg 
daughter  of  priest  Andres  Brunison,  iii.  3253 

GUNNSTEIN  (Gunnsteinn)  of  Longisle  in  Halogaland,  an 
older  brother  to  Karli,  a  man  of  great  account  and  busy  in 
husbandry,  ii.  23703-2380 — joins  his  brother  in  a  trading 
voyage  to  Biarmland,  and  takes  command  of  their  ship  after 
Karli's  death,  25816-26610 — overtaken  by  Thorir  Hound  at 
Longwick,  he  and  his  crew  desert  the  ship,  and  Gunnstein 
escapes  death  by  the  aid  of  a  wizard  woman,  2  6610.18 — he 
eludes  in  disguise  Thorir's  pursuit,  reaches  his  home  in  Long- 
isle,  from  whence  he  sets  out  to  meet  King  Olaf,  to  whom  he 
tells  the  story  of  the  expedition,  the  King  taking  him  under 
his  protection,  2  6624-2  670  2  8893.24  289^ 

GUTHORM  (Guthormr),  a  king  who  fell  with  Eric  Bloodaxe, 

i-  i54io 
GUTHORM,  son  of  Asolf  of  Reinir  and  Thora  daughter  of 

Skopti  Ogmundson,  father  of  Bard  the  father  of  K.  Ingi  and 

Duke  Skuli,  iii.  i849.13 — with  his  brother  Ottar  Balli  he  joins 

many  Thrandheim  chiefs  in  proclaiming  as  king  Sigurd,  son 

of  K.  Harald  Gilli,  3484 

GUTHORM  CINDER  (G.  sindri),  of  noble  kin,  and  a  famous 

poet  both  at  Harald  Hairfair's  and  his  son   Halfdan   the 

Black's  court,  brings  about  peace  between  father  and  son 

when  they  were  on  the  point  of  going  into  battle,  i.  i3618.31 — 

wrought  a  song  on  K.  Hakon  the  Good  called  Hakon's-drapa, 

Z56SH8  x 5 710-18  26-30  ^-jo  ar^s  I723rI736 11-19  X798-17 

GUTHORM,  son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunnhild,  1.  i45G — 
falls  at  Ogvaldsness  fighting  against  K.  Hakon  the  Good, 

I7219-27  „ 

GUTHORM  GREYBEARD  (G.  grabarSi),  father  to  Thora 

the  mother  of  K.  Sigurd  natural  son  of  K.  Harald  Gilli,  iii. 

314.23 — the  story  of  his  sons  Einar  and  Andreas,  and  another 

daughter  not  named,  38i11-38515 
GUTHORM,  son  of  Gudbrand  h'ersir  of  Gudbrandsdale,  falls 

in   battle  against   Halfdan   the  Black  in  Mickle-isle  (Eyin 

mikla)  in  the  lake  Miors,  i.  7820.29 
GUTHORM,  son  of  Harald  Fletcher,  a  commander  at  Kings' 

Rock,  iii.  32430 
GUTHORM,  'eldest'  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Asa,  daughter 

of  Earl  Hakon  Griotgarth's  son,  i.  110,,^ — sprinkled  with 


7<d  Index  I  [gut 

water  by  Duke  Guthorm,  who  gave  him  his  own  name  and 
brought  him  up  east  in  the  Wick,  ii432-ii55 — appointed  by 
his  father  governor  over  the  dominion  which  Duke  Guthorm 
had  ruled  over  (Wick  and  Uplands),  I241?.12 — and  afterwards 
made  King  of  Ranrealm,  i3i22.25 — falls  m  battle  with  Solvi 
Klofi  in  the  mouth  of  the  Elf,  i286.n  i3216.l7 

GUTHORM,  son  of  Ketil  Kalf  of  Ringness  and  Gunnhild, 
sister  of  K.  Harald  Hardredy,  his  character  and  relations  with 
K.  Harald,  iii.  i2  214.20 — his  warfare  in  the  west,  and  dealings 
with  Margath,  K.  of  Dublin,  in  Bretland,  i2  221-i2416 — he 
bestows  one  tenth  of  the  war-booty  taken  from  Margath  on 
Olaf's  church  at  Nidoyce,  in  the  shape  of  a  huge  rood  of 
silver,  i246.10 16.28 

GUTHORM,  son  of  Sigurd,  Earl  of  Orkney,  succeeded  his 
father  and,  in  a  year,  died,  leaving  no  issue,  i.  1  i62S.30  ii.  i689.10 

GUTHORM,  son  of  King  Sigurd  Hart  and  of  Thorny,  daughter 
of  Klack-Harald  King  of  Jutland,  i.  8il7  83-9 — seized  by 
the  viking  Haki  of  Hadaland,  8i29-823 — rescued  from  Haki 
by  Harek  Wolf,  and  brought  to  the  court  of  Halfdan  the 
Black,  8219-837 — becomes  captain  of  Harald  Hairfair's  body- 
guard, head  of  his  government,  and  commander-in-chief  of 
his  army,  9i8.12 — defeats  the  first  combination  of  Hairfair's 
enemies:  Haki  Gandalfson,  92^ — King  Gandalf  of  Vingul- 
mark,  927.14 — the  four  upland  lords,  Hogni  and  Frodi,  sons 
of  King  Eystein  of  Heathmark,  Hogni  Karason  and  '  hersir ' 
Gudbrand,  9214-937 — approves  strongly  of  Hairfair's  vow  to 
conquer  all  Norway,  957.9 — his  expedition  with  Harald  north 
over  Dofrafell  into  the  basin  of  Drontheim,  and  victory  in 
Orkdale,  95n.29 — appointed  governor  by  Harald  Hairfair  over 
Vermland,  no20.21 — sprinkles  with  water  and  gives  his  name 
to  Harald  Hairfair's  oldest  son,  and  brings  him  up,  i.  11432" 
H55 — had  rule  over  the  Wick,  Ranrealm  apparently  in- 
cluded (cf.  i3i22.25),  and  the  Uplands,  when  Harald  was 
absent,  n55.7 — and  as  governor  of  these  parts  resided  in 
Tunsberg,  i2324.28 — died  in  his  bed  at  Tunsberg,  124,, 

GUTHORM,  son  of  King  Sigurd  Syr  (Sow)  and  Asta  the 
daughter  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  ii.  3526.27 — his  faintheartedness 
as  a  child,   no6.10 — cornfields  his  great  wish  in  childhood, 

IJIl-5 

GUTHORM   STEIG-THORIRSON,  father  to  Gudrid,  and 


gyd — gyr]  Index  I  7 1 

Ingibiorg  the  queen  of  K.  Eystein  Magnuson,  iii.  873.4  265^2 
— his  daughter  Gudrid  saw  in  his  possession  the  mazer- bowl 
which  Harald  the  Hardredy  had  given  to  Steig-Thorir,  iii. 

8  7  3-5 
GYDA  '  the  English'  (GySa  in  enska),  daughter  of  Olaf  Kuaran, 

King  of  Dublin  (i.   26518.19),  a  widow  whose  husband  had 

been  an  earl,  chooses  at  an  assembly  summoned  by  herself, 

Olaf  Tryygvison   for   her  husband,   i.   264^-265    26620.21 — 

their  son  Tryggvi,  ii.  4633.8 

GYDA,  daughter  of  King  Eric  of  Hordaland,  fostered  by  a  rich 
bonder  of  Valdres,  personal  description,  i.  9315.1S — the  wooing 
of  her  by  Harald  Hairfair,  and  her  answer,  931S-94X7 — married 
to  Harald  Hairfair;  her  children,  ii44.10 

GYDA,  daughter  of  Earl  Godwin  and  his  wife  Gyda  the 
daughter  of  Thorgils  Sprakaleg,  married  to  Edward  the 
Confessor,  ii.  32610.14  iii.  i5518.19 

GYDA  THE  OLD  (G.  gamla),  daughter  of  K.  Harald  God- 
winson,  married  to  K.  Valdemar  of  Holmgarth,  their  son 
Harald  the  father-in-law   of  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  iii. 

2702s-27i2 
GYDA,  daughter  of  King  Svein  Twibeard,  and  sister  to  Knut 

the  Great,  married  to  Earl  Eric,  son  of  Hakon,  i.  34812.18 
GYDA,  daughter  of  Thorgils  Sprakaleg,  married  to  Earl  God- 
win, the  son  of  Wolfnoth,  mother  to  King  Harald  and  Earl 
Tosti,  etc.,  ii.  32  69.12  iii.  i5916.17 
GYLAUG  (Gylaugr),   King  of  Halogaland,  son   of  Gudlaug, 
avenges  his   father  on  Jorund,  K.  of  Sweden,  i.  4i2.26  cf. 

393-29 

GYLFI  (according  to  '  Gylfaginning '  of  the  younger  Edda,  i. 
30,  a  king  of  Sweden),  his  dealings  with  Gefion,  i.  i525  i67.14 
— his  dealings  with  Odin,  i615.21 

GYMIR,  a  giant,  father  of  Gerd,  the  wife  of  Frey,  i.  237  =  ^Egir, 
the  god  of  the  sea,  543 

GYRD  (GyrSr),  aboard  King  Harald  Hardredy's  ship  in  the 
Solund  Isles — his  dream,  i6322-i648 

GYRD,  son  of  Amundi,  K.  Ingi  Haraldson's  foster-brother, 
married  to  Gyrid  Day's  daughter,  sister  of  Gregory  Dayson, 
iii.  4°38-ii — joins  Gregory  to  attack  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  at 
Kings'  Rock,  iii.  400,  l — is  slain  by  Hakon  Shoulderbroad, 
403513 — Hakon's  dealings  with  his  son  Amundi,  42o2.,; 


72  Index  I  [gyr — hak 

GYRD  BARDSON,  father  to  Cecilia,  the  wife  of  Jon  Kauda, 
iii.  3633 

GYRD  GODWINSON,  Earl,  brother  of  K.  Harald  Godwinson, 
falls  with  his  brother  at  the  battle  of  Helsingport,  iii.  i8in.}7 

GYRD,  son  of  King  Harald  Redlip,  dies  fighting  with  his 
father  against  Gudrod  the  Hunter-king,  i.  7i13.14 

GYRD,  son  of  Kolbein,  brother  to  Bentein,  whom  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  slew,  iii.  3564 — refuses  ransom  for  Ivar  Dint 
as  having  taken  part  in  the  slaying  of  his  brother  Bentein, 
363is-22 — one  °f  tne  chiefs  who  insisted  on  Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon  being  tortured  to  death,  3660.8 

GYRD  the  Lawman,  son  of  Gunnhild,  a  follower  of  K.  Ingi 
Haraldson,  made  prisoner  of  war  by  K.  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad,  iii.  4°3n-i<3 

GYRD,  son  of  Law-Bersi,  father  to  Amundi,  the  foster-father 
of  K.  Ingi  Haraldson,  iii.  347l7 

GYRGIR  (Georgios  Maniakes),  military  commander  under  the 
Emperor  Michael  '  Katalaktus,'  iii.  59.34.33 — he  and  Harald 
Sigurdson  engaged  in  putting  down  piracy  in  the  Greek 
Archipelago,  6oa.7 — his  quarrels  with  the  Veerings  concerning 
certain  privileges  at  encampments  settled  by  Harald's  sharp 
practice,  6olV-625 — comparison  of  his  and  Harald's  successes 
in  war,  628-6323 

GYRID,  the  daughter  of  Day  and  sister  of  Gregory  Dayson, 
married  to  Gyrd,  the  son  of  Amundi,  iii.  403s.n — their  son 
Amundi,  42o2.6 

HADD  the  Hardy  (Haddr  inn  hargi),  fought,  together  with  his 
brother,  Roald  Rig,  against  Harald  Hairfair  in  Hafursfirth, 
and,  apparently,  escaped  by  flight,  i.  in12-ii22 

HADDING,  a  legendary  hero,  son  of  Gram,  K.  in  Denmark, 
his  followers,  called  Haddings  (Haddingjar) — Haddingja 
valr,  would  be  better  translated  '  fallen  Haddings'  than  'Had- 
ding's  chosen,'  i.  2o614 

HAFTHOR  (Haff6rr)  and  Steinthor  (Stein>6rr),  examples  of 
personal  names  derived  from  Thor  (pdrr),  i.  19.27.28 

HAGBARD,  a  sea-king,  i.  383.5  2564  iii.  31903  (Sigar's  foe). 

HAKI,  a  sea-king,  and,  after  having  slain  K.  Hugleik  in  battle, 
King  of  the  Swedes,  i.  383.27 — overcome  by  wounds  in  battle 
with  the  sons  of  K.  Yngvi  Alreksson,  Jorund  and  Eric,  he 
had  balefire  arrayed  on  board  ship  whereon  he  was  laid,  the 


hak] 


Index  I  73 


craft,  with  rudder  shipped  and  sails  set,  going  all  ablaze  into 
the  main,  3931-4o.14 

HAKI,  one  of  the  sons  of  Gandalf,  King  of  Vingulmark,  defeated 
by  Halfdan  the  Black  at  the  battle  of  Eid,  he  saves  himself 
by  flight,  i.  8o.,3.26 — makes,  with  his  father,  a  combined  front 
and  flank  attack  on  Harald  Hairfair  in  Westfold,  9  ils.22— de- 
feated, and  slain  at  Hakisdale,  922.7 

HAKI,  bareserk  of  Hadaland,  kills  King  Sigurd  Hart  and  seizes 
his  children,  Ragnhild  and  Guthorm,  and  brings  them  to  his 
seat  in  Hadaland,  i.  8 1.,5-8  2  3— prevented  by  his  wounds  from 
wedding  Ragnhild,  823.g— is  attacked  by  order  of  Halfdan  the 
Black  by  Harek  Wolf,  who  burns  down  his  house  and  brings 
Ragnhild  and  Guthorm  to  Halfdan  the  Black,  while  Haki, 
having  to  give  up  the  pursuit  of  him,  falls  on  his  sword  and 
kills  himself,  829.31 

HAKON  (Hakon),  an  agent  of  Gunnhild  the  Kings'  mother, 
employed  to  try  to  get  into  her  power  the  infant  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison;  his  mission  an  utter  failure,  i.  2  2  5n-2  2824 

HAKON,  King  of  Sweden  after  King  Steinkel,  hi.  2  2  67.9  [by 
the  oldest  authority,  a  series  of  Kings  of  Sweden  attached  to 
the  West-Gautland  code  of  laws,  this  King,  under  the  name 
of  Hakon  rod,  precedes  Steinkel]. 

HAKON,  son  of  Earl  Eric  the  son  of  Hakon  by  his  wife  Gyda, 
i.  348ir.isii.  2i2.,.,3  2  5529.30— rules  Norway,  after  the  departure 
for  England  of  his  father,  conjointly  with  his  uncle  Svein, 
(1014-15),  ii.  2i21.22  25035.27— Einar  Thambarskelfir  com- 
missioned by  his  "father  to"  be  his  guardian  and  counsellor, 
26i7-22 — capture  of  him  in  Saudungsound  by  Olaf  Haraldson, 
3°3o-3I2o  25°'7-3o—  his  parley  with  Olaf  and  release  on  parole, 
3i21-3284— he  gives  up  to  Olaf  his  dominion  in  Norway, 
32iM6  3915-19  47i9-29  25o27.3o— leaves  Norway  and  joins  King 
Knut,  by  whom  he  is  held  in  much  esteem  and  appointed  to 
a  great  dominion,  33^  25030-25^— visited  by  his  kinsman- 
in-law,  Einar  Thambarskelfir,  235^— lays  against  his  uncle, 
King  Knut,  claim  to  a  portion  of  Norway,  25i10.12 — many 
fugitives  from  Norway  assure  him  that  the  Norwegians  were 
ready  to  revolt  against  King  Olaf  in  favour  of  him  and  King 
Knut,  252G.12— urges  King  Knut  to  take  action  for  ousting 
Olaf  from  Norway,  2  5212.ir—  holds  the  second  command  in 
the  fleet  with  which  Knut'  sets  out  to  meet  the  invasion  of 


74  Index  I  [hak 

Denmark  by  Olaf  of  Norway  and  Onund  of  Sweden,  3i325.28 
— his  dragon  galley  described,  3i518.23 — Erling  Skialgson  and 
his  sons  join  Hakon's  command  in  K.  Knut's  expedition, 
335o-9 — incurs  general  blame  for  breaking  his  oath  never  to 
fight  against  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  33621.24 — Poet  Sigvat  a  great 
friend  of  his,  33624.34 — appointed  Earl  of  Norway  by  K.  Knut, 
349i3-ie  25-29  4I7]3-i6 — some  OI"  Erling's  sons  with  Hakon  when 
their  father  was  slain,  36oir.18 — leads  out  of  Thrandheim  an 
overwhelming  force  before  which  K.  Olaf  takes  to  flight, 
36i29-36321 — short  reign  in  Norway  prophesied  to  him  by 
K.  Olaf,  36820.25 — his  popularity  in  Norway,  372u.15 — follows 
up  the  flight  of  K.  Olaf  and  takes  all  his  abandoned  ships, 
372i8-3o — favours  conferred  by  him  on  Kalf  Arnison,  374"375u 
— K.  Knut's  view  of  his  uprightness,  3765.9 — he  and  K.  Knut 
succeed  in  winning  over  Biorn  the  Marshal  by  bribes,  37723- 

37921— his  death  (lost  at  sea>  I029)>  3762s-3772o  38630-3872 
38814.17  389l 

HAKON  FAUK  (H.  faukr),  son  of  Olaf  o'  Dale,  and  brother 
to  Borghild,  the  concubine  of  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  and 
mother  of  K.  Magnus  the  Blind,  iii.  2  7721  23.24 — slain  by  order 
of  K.  Harald  Gilli,  32337 

HAKON  the  Good  (H.  g6:Si),  King  of  Norway,  934-961,  son 
of  K.  Har.  Hairfair  and  Thora  Most-Staff,  afterwards  called 
'Athelstan's  fosterling,'  or  'The  Good;'  kindred,  birth,  bap- 
tism, personal  description,  and  early  rearing,  i.  1 38^24  cf. 
ii.  i9i2S-i921 — sent  by  his  father  to  King  Athelstane  in 
England  to  be  fostered  by  him,  i3929-i4o21 — his  life  at  the 
court  of  King  Athelstane;  gift  by  the  latter  of  the  sword 
'Quern-biter,'  i4i4.]9 — hearing  of  the  death  of  his  father  he 
fits  out,  by  the  aid  of  K.  Athelstane,  an  expedition  to  Norway, 
1 495.n— landing  there  he  hears  of  the  battle  of  Tunsberg  and 
the  fall  of  his  brethren,  Olaf,  K.  of  the  Wick,  and  Sigrod,  K. 
of  Thrandheim,  and  that  his  brother  Eric  was  east  in  the 
Wick,  i4910.14 — at  the  age  of  fifteen  he  is  proclaimed  by  the 
Thrandheim  folk  King  of  all  Norway  on  having  declared  that 
his  father's  feudal  oppression  should  be  abolished,  149^150^ 
— the  Uplands  declare  for  him,  i5o14-i5i7 — the  Wick  likewise, 
and  Tryggvi  and  Gudrod  are  reinstated  in  their  kingdoms, 
1 5*7-24  c^  I97i9-24 — m  face  °f  Hakon's  popularity  Eric  Blood- 
axe  quits  the  country  and  goes  to  Orkney,  i5i27-i526 — all  Nor- 


hak] 


Index  I  75 


way  subdued  after  Eric's  flight,  but  an  army  of  observation 
maintained  about  the  middle  of  the  realm  until  the  fall  of 
Eric  came  to  be  known,  i5525-i569 — confers  on  his  friend  Earl 
Sigurd  the  dominion  of  Thrandheim,  156^  cf.  i9920.22  2030-  ,7 
2oS5.7— victorious  war  with  Denmark,  1569-1583  cf.  2351(3.20 — 
raid  into  Sweden  and  return  to  the  Wick,  i584.15  cf.  ii.  97o4..j,; 
— Tryggvi  Olafson  appointed  commander  of  the  Wick  forces 
to  beat  back  attacks  from  Denmark,  158^-1593— Hakon's 
happy  reign  (cf.  i74n.14)  and  wise  legislation  (cf.  17305-174-): 
Gulathing's  laws — Frostathing's  laws  (Heidsaevis  laws  al- 
ready codified  by  Halfdan  the  Black,  his  grandfather,  cf. 
84^-85.,),  i6o19.32  cf.  2oi23.24  ii.  6814.16  iii.  2i2s.30 — baptizes 
to  his  own  name  a  son  of  Earl  Sigurd,  i6i3.10 — makes  Jamtland 
a  tributary  province  of  Norway,  i63s.20 — Jamtlanders  and 
the  Norwegian  population  of  Helsingland  acknowledge  him 
their  king,  163.^.00  ii.  27621.31  iii.  2  642.5 — his  Christian  ways, 
i63O6-i6410 — measures  adopted  by  him  towards  converting 
his  people  to  Christianity,  164^1653 — the  heathendom  of 
Norway  too  strong  for  him  to  cope  with,  i6620-i7i25  cf.  3i626- 
3i75  3i825.30 — defeats  Eric's  sons  at  Ogvaldsness,  i7i2S-i7322 
— his  ordinances  in  respect  of  ship-raths  and  war-beacons, 
I73-2o"I747  27-30 — defeats  Eric's  sons  at  Fraedisberg,  1743-179 
— again  at  Fitiar,  where  he  is  mortally  wounded,  i8o27-i87 — 
his  last  will,  i88s.ir) — his  death  and  burial,  i883.30  cf.  2o67.8 — 
mourned  by  friends  and  foes  alike,  i8822..,4— he  is  succeeded 
by  the  sons  of  Eric,  197^ — date  of  his  death,  2^g2._26  cf. 
2o67.8 — Eyvind's  song  on  him:  '  Hakonarmal,'  189-193  — 
Glum  Geirison's  and  Eyvind  Finson's  memorial  verses  on  him, 
1 9^1-20 — his  reign  gratefully  remembered,  ii.  4214.15  iii.  232.9 
HAKON,  son  of  Griotgarth  of  Yrjar,  allies  himself  with  Har. 
Hairfair  on  his  invading  Thrandheim,  i.  9624.27 — after  the 
victory  in  Gauldale  he  receives  from  Harald  the  lordship  of 
Strindfolk  (earldom  of  Ladir),  g6.27-g-j2 — gives  his  daughter, 
Asa,  in  marriage  to  Harald  Hairfair,  and  is  favoured  by  the 
King  beyond  all  men,  9821.23  i3712.10 — ruled  over  all  Thrand- 
heim in  Har. 's  absence,  1 37^-15  cf-  156^ — lost  two  of  his  sons 
in  the  second  battle  of  Solskel,  i.  iO230.32- — appointed  governor 
over  Firthfolk  by  Harald,  io48.9 — his  quarrel  with  Earl  Atli 
the  Slender  over  the  governorship  of  Sogn,  fight  with  him  in 
Staffness-bay  and  death,  io410.]9  i37ltH7  i3820 


76  Index  I  [hak 

HAKON,  Earl,  son  of  Ivar  the  White  who  was  a  daughter's 
son  of  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty,  described,  iii.  io519.25 — married 
to  Ragnhild,  d.  of  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  H99.12 — his  grand- 
aunt  Bergliot's  estimate  of  his  character,  iio2j,24 — his  viking 
cruises  in  the  west  in  company  with  Finn  Arnison,  ni}4.15 — 
Finn  Arnison's  mission  to  him  on  behalf  of  K.  Harald  Sigurd- 
son  after  the  murder  of  Bergliot's  husband  and  son,  HI30.30 
ii218.24  ii326-ii423 — he  makes  it  a  condition  of  peace  with 
Harald  that  he  should  give  him  in  marriage  his  grand-niece 
Ragnhild,  d.  of  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  1 1415.23— Harald  breaks 
his  promise  in  the  matter,  1 15-1 168 — Hakon  goes  to  Denmark 
and  takes  service  with  K.  Svein  Wolfson,  his  'kinsman-in-law' 
(Svein  was  married  to  Gunnhild,  grand-daughter  of  Earl 
Hakon  the  Mighty,  while  Hakon  Ivarson  was  great-grandson 
of  the  Earl),  n61M6  47316-i9 — slays  in  battle  K.  Svein's  tur- 
bulent nephew,  Asmund,  1 1 7-1 1827 — leaves  the  King's  service, 
n828.31 — is  created  Earl  by  K.  Harald,  and  marries,  U93-15 — 
his  doings  at  the  battle  of  Niz,  i3329.31 i365.22 1 4324-29  I44i-3 — 
he  saves  the  life  of  Vandrad,  i.e.,  of  K.  Svein  Wolfson,  138- 
i406 — K.  Harald's  wrath  in  consequence,  and  Hakon's  flight, 
i446-i45o4 — continued  feud  between  them,  i463.24 — Hakon's 
last  encounter  with  K.  Harald,  i4913-i52n 

HAKON,  King  of  Norway,  1 093-1094,  son  of  K.  Magnus 
Harald  Hardredy's  son,  and  first  cousin  toK.  Magnus  Barefoot, 
commonly  called  Thorir's  fosterling,  because  he  was  fostered 
by  Steig-Thorir,  iii.  i879.10 — on  the  death  of  Olaf  the  Quiet 
the  Uplanders  take  him  for  their  king,  2o58.10 — the  Thrand- 
heimers  at  Ere-Thing  proclaim  him  king  of  that  moiety  of 
the  land  over  which  his  father  had  ruled,  2o510.16 — he  gains 
popularity  by  relieving  his  subjects  of  certain  imposts  dating 
from  Svein  Alfivason's  reign,  and  by  reforming  the  laws,  205^- 
2o610 — Magnus  Barefoot's  consequent  rancour  towards  his 
cousin,  2o613-20718 — Hakon's  journey  over  Dovrafell  towards 
the  Wick,  and  sudden  death  on  the  way,  20718.33 — his  body 
brought  to  Nidoyce  and  buried  at  Christchurch,  20733-2o86 — 
his  age,  popularity,  and  Biarmland  war,  2o8(H0 — effect  of  his 
death  on  the  fortunes  of  Svein,  son  of  Harald  Fletcher,  and 
Steig-Thorir,  2O92-2i210 

HAKON  the  Mighty  (H.  hinn  riki),  ruler  of  Norway,  975-995, 
on  of  Earl  Sigurd  and  Bergliot,  d.  of  Earl  Thorir;  born  Earl 


hak] 


Index  I  77 


of  Ladir,  i.  49  6S.9 — derived  his  descent  from  Saeming,  the 
son  of  Odin  by  Skadi,  2i13.14— birth,  baptism,  etc.,  i6i3.n— is 
appointed  their  chief  and  earl  by  the  Thrandheim  people  after 
the  murder  of  his  father,  205.^-2063— drives  Harald  Greycloak 
and  his  brother  Erling  out  of  Thrandheim,  2o63.6 — holds 
Thrandheim  for  three  years,  in  spite  of  Gunnhild's  sons,  paying 
no  taxes;  has  many  battles  with  them,  with  varying  success, 
2o606-20733 — friends  of  either  party  arrange  peace  between 
them  on  such  terms  that  they  should  share  the  dominion  in 
Thrandheim  as  had  Hakon  the  Good  and  Earl  Sigurd  afore- 
time; and  great  love  arose  between  Hakon  and  Gunnhild, 
2  0  734-2o8r) — has  a  son,  Eric,  with  a  low-born  woman  of  the 
Uplands,  2~o913.22 — personal  description,  2oa26.29 — goes  to  the 
Uplands  and  makes  a  secret  alliance  against  Gunnhild's  sons 
with  four  lords  of  the  land,  2io3.n — on  learning  that  Harald 
Greycloak  and  his  brothers  were  drawing  together  an  over- 
whelming war-host  against  him,  he  starts  from  Thrandheim, 
and  visits  Northmere,  Raumsdale  and  Southmere  with  fire 
and  sword,  and  while  Harald  lay  weatherbound  south  of  Stad, 
Hakon  sailed  off  into  the  main  and  came  to  Denmark,  and 
harried  summerlong  in  the  Eastlands,  2i312-2i4? — in  autumn 
he  goes  to  Helsingland,  where  he  laid  up  his  ships,  marching 
west  through  Helsingland  and  Jamtland,  and  over  the  Keel 
into  Thrandheim,  21 414.18 — thereupon  Gunnhild's  sons,  Sigurd 
Slaver  and  Gudrod,  leave  Thrandheim  for  the  Mere,  and 
Hakon  sways  over  Thrandheim  alone,  residing  there  in  winter, 
in  summer  going  to  his  ships  in  Helsingland  and  warring  in 
the  east,  or  else  having  his  host  out  in  Thrandheim  and  keep- 
ing Gunnhild's  sons  at  bay  south  of  Stad,  2i419.31 — he  antici- 
pates a  fresh  expedition  to  Thrandheim  by  Harald  Greycloak 
and  his  brothers  by  carrying  war  into  Mere,  where  he  slays  his 
own  uncle  Griotgarth,  2  i6lV-2 1 76 — whereupon  he  sails  away  to 
Denmark  and  stays  through  the  winter  with  King  Harald  Gorm- 
son,  2i77.n — from  Denmark  he  stirs  up  revolt  in  Thrandheim 
against  Gunnhild's  sons,  232.,.^ — encourages  Gold-Harald  to 
lay  open  claim  to  kingly  dominion  in  Denmark  against  his  uncle 
Harald  Gormson,  23214.25— but  dissuades  him  from  stirring 
up  a  rebellion  against  him,  2  339.30 — pleads  with  Harald  Gorm- 
son not  to  go  to  extremes  with  his  nephew,  who,  in  such  a 
case,  would  find  plenteous  support  from  the  Danes,  233^-234.,, 


78  Index  I  [hak 

— counsels  Harald  Gormson  to  invite  his  fosterson  Harald 
Greycloak  to  Denmark  and  betray  him,  and  in  the  meanwhile 
to  put  Gold-Harald  on  the  throne  of  Norway,  23403-2367 — 
persuades  Gold-Harald  to  acquiesce  in  the  plan  of  winning 
for  himself  the  kingdom  of  Norway,  and  promises  his  support 
thereto,  2  3610.23 — Harald  Greycloak,  having  accepted  Harald 
Gormson's  invitation,  and  come  to  the  Limbfirth  in  Denmark, 
Gold-Harald  goes  with  nine  ships,  arrayed  for  war,  to  attack 
him,  whereupon  Hakon  discloses  all  the  treasonable  plans  of 
Gold-Harald  to  his  uncle,  and  prays  for  permission  to  go  and 
attack  and  slay  Gold-Harald,  promising  to  Harald  Gormson 
the  kingdom  of  Norway,  where  he  would  be  his  loyal  earl; 
and  shortly  after  Gold-Harald  had  slain  Harald  Greycloak, 
Hakon  attacked  him,  won  the  day,  and  had  him  hanged, 
237.34-23823  24o3.n — had,  on  Ari  Thorgilson's  authority,  ruled 
over  his  dominion  in  Thrandheim  thirteen  years  when  Grey- 
cloak died,  2  3927.31 — is  appointed  by  Harald  Gormson  earl 
over  seven  maritime  folklands  of  Norway  from  Rogaland  to 
Northmere,  and  invested  with  revenues  from  them  on  the 
rules  that  Harald  Hairfair  followed  when  he  shared  Norway 
with  his  sons;  other  privileges  being  added,  240^-2415  ii. 
2  5  °i  519 — ne  §oes  with  a  war-host  north  along  the  land,  and 
Gunnhild  and  her  sons  flee  the  land  to  Orkney,  24i]7.23 
cf.  34i23-26 — orders,  on  his  progress  north,  temples  and 
blood-offerings  to  be  sustained,  and  takes  up  his  residence  in 
Thrandheim,  24i27-24227 — his  accession  to  power  signalized 
by  good  year,  both  as  to  sea  and  land,  24228.34 — his  deal- 
ings with  Ragnfrod,  son  of  Gunnhild,  243^246 — Hakon 
marries  Thora,  d.  of  Skagi  Skoptison,  2473.4 — their  children, 
2475.s  cf.  ii.  2224.26  hi.  io68.15  37i9.n — his  relations  with 
Skopti  of  the  Tidings,  i.  2479-248^ — pays  to  Harald  Gormson 
no  taxes  of  Norway,  2  5310.15 — joins  King  Harald  Gormson 
against  the  Emperor  Otto  II.  with  a  great  war-host  from 
Norway,  25326-2543 — is  charged  by  K.  Harald  to  hold  the 
rampart  of  Dane-work  against  the  Emperor,  and  defends  it 
so  stoutly  that  the  Emperor  is  repulsed,  255^-25630 — Hakon 
retires  to  his  ships  awaiting  wind  for  Norway,  2  575.8 — is 
christened  at  the  instance  of  K.  Harald  against  his  will, 
25729-2587 — departs  from  Denmark,  casts  aland  all  Christian 
missionaries,  wars  in  Denmark  and  Sweden,  and  goes  back 


hak] 


Index  I  79 


to  heathen  sacrifices,  258^-259.,— fights  his  way  through 
Sweden  to  Norway  up  to  Thrandheim,  259.,.^ — for  his 
apostacy  and  war  on  Harald  Gormson's  kingdom,  the  latter 
carries  fire  and  sword  into  Norway  as  far  as  Sogn,  26719.9g 
— Hakon  let  build  the  land  again,  but  paid  no  tribute  to 
Denmark,  26g.2i}..2c,  cf.  ii.  4228.30- — fresh  attack  threatened  by 
Harald's  son,  Svein  Twibeard,  2  7iis.21 — invasion  of  Norway 
avowed  by  the  Jomsburgers  at  Harald  Gormson's  grave- 
ale,  27i23-27314 — informed  of  the  conspiracy  by  his  son  Eric, 
Hakon  gathers  a  fleet  from  all  northern  Norway,  and  assembles 
it  in  Hallkelswick,  from  whence,  on  hearing  that  the  vikings 
were  at  western  Hod,  he  rowed  the  whole  fleet  of  nearly  two 
hundred  ships  north  into  Hiorund-firth,  273^-2  74^  2  7610- 
2  772 — fights  and  wins  the  famous  'battle  of  the  Jomsvikings,' 
2773-28i7  ii.  265.6  4223.25 — returns  to  Thrandheim,  28322.25 — 
alleged  to  have  sacrificed  his  son  to  Odin  for  victory  over  the 
Jomsvikings,  283^^ — his  might  and  power,  28721-2884 — his 
luck  in  good  years  and  his  peaceful  rule,  2  885.8 — his  reckless 
sensuality,  2  889.19 — he  sends  Thorir  Klakka  to  the  west  to 
find  out  if  Oli  Garthrealmer  be  indeed  Olaf  Tryggvison,  and, 
in  that  case,  to  betray  him,  28823-28g16 — his  great  unpopu- 
larity in  Thrandheim,  28816.19  29i22.33  ii.  4230-432 — his  immoral 
conduct  brings  about  the  revolt  of  Worm  Lyrgia  with  a  host 
of  neighbours,  2925-2935 — Hakon  is  obliged  to  go  into  hiding : 
into  EarFs-dale,  in  Earl's-cave,  and,  at  last,  in  a  hole  made  for 
him  under  a  swine-sty  at  Rimul,  2935-294^  29523.2(3 — hidden 
here  with  his  thrall,  Kark,  he  hears  the  news  of  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison's  having  arrived  in  Thrandheim  and  slain  his  son  Erland, 
and  next  he  hears  Olaf  come  to  Rimul  in  search  of  him,  and, 
standing  on  a  big  stone  beside  the  sty,  put  a  price  upon  his 
head,  2  9422.24  2  967.19 — his  last  night,  the  murder  of  him  by 
the  thrall  Kark,  296.^-297^  cf.  29921.23 — his  head,  together 
with  his  thrall's,  stoned  in  Nid-holm,  297.^-2987 — his  corpse 
dragged  away  (mutilated),  2988.0 — the  byname  of  'Evil' 
given  to  him,  29810.13 — Snorri's  estimate  of  his  character, 
29813.34 — his  sons  flee  from  the  land  after  his  fall,  345,, .,, 
HAKON  MAW  (H.  magi),  first  cousin  of  Hakon  Pungelta, 
their  mothers  being  sisters,  daughters  of  Aslak  Erlingson  of 
Soli,  iii.  3567.ln — one  of  Eric  Oddson's  authorities  for  the  his- 
tory of  Harald  Gilli,  36519.22 — his  son  Ivar,  4i215.2t. 


80  Index  I  [hak 

HAKON  THE  OLD  (H.  hinn  gamli),  a  man  of  might  in 
Sweden,  and  friend  of  Eric  Biodaskalli,  who  sends  to  him  for 
ward  and  protection  Astrid,  his  daughter,  with  her  infant  son 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  22521.25 — he  receives  Astrid  and  Olaf, 
who  dwell  with  him  for  a  long  while,  2  2  7l7.20 — he  refuses  to 
give  Olaf  up  to  Gunnhild's  agent,  Hakon,  2285.]0  12.22 

HAKON,  son  of  Earl  Paul,  Earl  of  Orkney,  receives  earldom 
and  lordship  in  the  Orkneys  from  Kings  Sigurd,  Eystein  and 
Olaf,  the  sons  of  Magnus  Barefoot — goes  west  to  the  Orkneys, 
iii.  24814.01 

HAKON  PUNGELTA,  son  of  Laxe-Paul  and  a  daughter  of 
Aslak  Erlingson  of  Soli,  first  cousin  of  Hakon  magi,  their 
mothers  being  sisters,  punished  by  K.  Ingi  Haraldson  for 
siding  with  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  3565.n 

HAKON  SHOULDERBROAD  (H.herSibreiSr),  King  of  Nor- 
way, 1161-1162,  son  of  K.  Sigurd  Mouth,  the  son  of  Harald 
Gilli  and  of  Thora,  a  workwoman  of  Simon  Thorbergson, 
brought  up  by  Simon  together  with  his  sons  Onund  and 
Andreas,  3733.24  399ni2 — m  n^s  uncle,  K.  Eystein's,  following 
when  his  father  was  slain  at  Biorgvin,  39on.13 — after  the  death 
of  K.  Eystein  his  party  appoint  Hakon,  ten  years  old,  their 
chief,  and  confer  on  him  title  of  king,  3995,13 — (in  consequence 
K.  Ingi  confiscates  their  property  and  makes  them  outlaws, 
399i4io) — after  a  winter's  sojourn  in  Gautland,  he  comes 
down  on  Kings'  Rock  with  a  numerous  host,  where  he  is 
defeated  by  Gregory  Dayson,  commanding  K.  Ingi's  army, 
399-2i"4027 — Hakon  flees  to  Gautland,  whence  he  went  next 
winter  to  Thrandheim,  where  the  people  proclaimed  him 
king  over  his  father's  heritage,  one-third  of  the  kingdom  of 
Norway,  4027.12 — his  war-raid  from  Thrandheim  along  either 
Mere,  and  expedition  east  to  the  Elf,  4021S-40331 — defeated 
in  the  battle  of  the  Elf,  from  which  he  escapes  by  flight, 
making  his  way  to  Thrandheim,  where  he  winters,  404-4 1621 
— next,  heard  of  in  the  Wick,  whither  his  uncle  Ingi  goes  in 
pursuit  of  him,  he  taking  to  flight  again,  4i824.27 — suffers 
severe  beating  at  the  hands  of  Gregory  at  Saur-Byes,  but 
escapes,  4i93.25 — slays  Haldor  of  Vettland,  the  brother-in-law 
of  Gregory  Dayson,  and  burns  the  homestead,  4i927-42o6 — 
his  fight  with  Gregory  on  the  river  Befia,  4209-42 123 — K.  Ingi 
prepares  to  avenge  his  favourite,  Gregory — battle  between  him 


hak — hal]  Index  I  81 

and  Hakon  at  Oslo,  where  Hakon  gained  the  day,  422-426^ 
42  77.10 — after  K.  Ingi's  fall  Hakon  sets  up  as  sole  king  in  the 
land,  42  715.17 — Hakon's  plans  for  dealing  with  Erling  Askew, 
found  out  by  Erling's  wife,  42  717.2r) — his  relations  to  Erling, 
435o-io — Hak.  defeated  and  turned  to  flight  by  Erling  in  the 
battle  at  Tunsberg,  438^-440.,,- — Hak.  retires  to  Thrandheim 
and  prepares  an  expedition  against  Erling,  44003.07  44 x 6-15 — 
Erling  makes  his  counter-preparations,  441^-4453 — Hakon's 
last  battle  and  fall,  4456-4477 — the  burial  of  his  body,  447s-i2 
— personal  description,  447^-4485 

HAKON  SUET-NECK  (H.  morstrutr),  son  of  Serk,  his  rela- 
tions to  Arni  Foreshore-skew  and  the  Icelandic  poet  Thorarin 
Curtfell,  iii.  28625-2885 

HALDOR  (Halldorr),  obtains  speech  and  health  by  a  miracle 
of  King  Olaf's,  iii.  38o26-38is 

HALDOR,  son  of  Bryniolf  Camel  the  elder,  his  humorous 
counsel  to  King  Olaf  Haraldson  how,  in  doubtful  weather, 
to  sail  about  Jadar,  ii.  2  681S.22 — his  comparison  of  the  char- 
acters of  Olaf  the  Holy  and  Harald  Sigurdson,  iii.  i867.31 

HALDOR,  son  of  Bryniolf  Camel  the  younger,  iii.  48i10.12 — 
married  to  Sigrid  Day's  daughter,  the  sister  of  Gregory,  41909- 
42o2 — goes  over  to  the  side  of  King  Ingi  in  opposition  to 
King  Eystein,3931 — joins  Gregory  Dayson  to  fight  K.  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad  at  Kings'  Rock,  4oo10 — dissension  with  Biorn 
Nicolasson  at  Biorgvin,  which  results  in  a  general  fight  on  the 
bridges,  4i630-4i820 — King  Hakon  and  Sigurd  of  Reyr  go  to 
his  manor  and  burn  the  houses — he  and  his  house-carles  are 
slain,  4i927.31  42214 

HALDOR  GABBLER  (H.  skvaldri),  an  Icel.  poet,  his  com- 
memorative verses  on  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  victories:  over 
vikings  off  the  Spanish  coast,  iii.  2  5o18.2T — at  Cintra  Castle, 
251^ — at  Lisbon  and  Alcasse,  25i17.21  2f2525 — at  Norvi- 
sound,  252m7— at  Forminterra,  253^-254^ — at  Iviza,  254^3 
— at  Minorca,  2553.3 — on  Sidon  being  given  to  King  Baldwin 
by  Sigurd,  2585.9 — on  the  battle  at  Fyrileif  between  K.  Mag- 
nus the  Blind  and  Harald  Gilli,  3i628.32 — on  the  casting  into 
the  Sarp  of  Asbiorn  and  the  hanging  of  Nereid  by  K.  Harald 

Gilli,  S^hwA 
HALDOR,  son  of  Gudmund  of  Maddermead,  one  of  the  Ice- 
landers christened  at  Nidoyce  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  3342() 

VI.  G 


82  Index  I  [hal 

337i7-is — kept  with  other  nobles  of  Iceland  by  Olaf  Tryggvison 
as  hostage  to  ensure  the  conversion  to  Christianity  of  Iceland, 

3542i 

HALDOR  SIGURDSON,  a  follower  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon, 
iii.  3498 — falls  in  the  battle  at  Mouth,  34933-350! 

HALDOR  of  Skerding-Stithy,  joins  Worm  Lyrgia  in  revolt 
against  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty,  i.  29229.31 — threatened  by 
Olaf  Tryggvison  with  being  sacrificed  to  the  gods,  3i9s 

HALDOR,  son  of  Snorri  the  Priest,  served  under  Harald 
Sigurdson  when  he  commanded  the  Varangian  host  in  the 
Greek  army,  quoted  as  authority  on  the  history  of  Harald,  iii. 
67ii-is  7425 — taunts  Harald  with  cowardice,  6813.19 — wounded 
and  disfigured  for  life,  6823.25 — imprisoned  with  Harald  in 
Micklegarth,  73.33 — his  character,  etc.,  ic>39.27 — returns  to 
Iceland  and  sets  up  a  house  at  Herdholt,  io325.28 

HALDOR  the  Unchristened  (H.  ukristni),  Icel.  poet,  author 
of  a  song  on  Earl  Eric,  son  of  Hakon,  celebrating  his  deeds 
in  the  battle  of  Svold,  i.  3592r36°3  362io-is  369i3-2i  29"37°4 

37326-35  37528-36  377l2-20 

HALF  (Halfr),  (King  of  Hordland),  a  famous  legendary  sea- 
king,  iii.  i5421 

HALFDAN  (Halfdan),  an  Earl,  married  to  Ingibiorg,  a 
daughter  of  Har.  Hairfair,  their  daughter  Gunnhild  the 
mother  of  Eyvind  Skaldspiller,  i.  i9827.30  ii.  i905.7 

HALFDAN,  brother  to  King  Gudrod  of  Scania,  and  father  of 
Ivar  Wide-fathom,  slain  by  his  brother  at  the  instigation  of 
Asa  Evil-heart,  i.  6^n  14 

HALFDAN  THE  BLACK  (H.  svarti),  ob.  860,  son  of  Gud- 
rod the  Hunter-King,  i.  4X  and  of  his  second  wife,  Asa,  the 
daughter  of  Harald  Redlip,  King  of  Agdir,  7i3.l7 — loses  his 
father  when  one  year  old,  71^.05  7  75-6 — brought  up  by  his 
mother  in  Agdir,  776.n — when  he  was  eighteen  years  old  he  be- 
came King  of  Agdir,  and  shared  the  father's  kingdom  of  West- 
fold  with  his  half-brother,  Olaf  Geirstead-Elf,  722R.32  77n.14 — 
at  that  age  he  made  war  on  Gandalf  of  Vingulmark,  and  got 
the  half  of  that  dominion,  7715.20 — made  war  on  Sigtrygg,  the 
son  of  King  Eystein,  and  won  to  him  Raumrick  and  slew 
Sigtrygg,  7721-785 — Eystein,  the  brother  of  Sigtrygg,  seized  on 
Raumrick  again,  and  a  war  broke  out  between  him  and  Half- 
dan  which  ended  by  Halfdan  becoming  lord  of  Raumrick, 


hal]  Index  I  83 

Thotn,  Hadaland,  Land,  and  one  half  of  Heathmark,  78^-79,. 
— married  first,  Ragnhild,  d.  of  Harald  Goldbeard,  King  of 
Sogn,  and  had  a  son  with  her,  Harald,  who  was  reared  in 
Sogn,  and  to  whom  the  grandfather  gave  his  kingdom  shortly 
before  his  death;  the  mother  dying  shortly  afterwards,  and 
the  young  king  when  he  was  ten  years  of  age,  Halfdan  laid 
successfully  claim  to  the  kingdom  of  Sogn,  7910.18 — and  as 
Vice-roy  (jarl)  over  this  kingdom  he  appointed  Atli  the 
Slender,  Earl  of  Gaular,  7928-8o2 — his  fights  with  the  sons  of 
Gandalf,  8o6.2ti — married,  second  time,  Ragnhild,  the  daughter 
of  King  Sigurd  Hart  and  Thorny  d.  of  Klack-Harald,  82^83- 
— his  dream  presaging  the  greatness  of  his  race,  843.27 — his 
wise  laws  referred  to  i6o31  as  Heidssevis  laws,  q.v. ;  he  in- 
stitutes the  system  of  weregild  by  law,  842S-852 — his  son  with 
Ragnhild,  Harald  Hairfair,  85^ — the  loss  from  his  table  of  all 
his  Yule-fare,  8512-864 — his  death,  86n.22 — so  beloved  of  his 
people  that  each  of  the  four  folklands  he  ruled  over  must 
have  a  portion  of  his  body,  8623-875 — his  head  was  laid  in 
mound  at  Stone  in  Ringrick,  87^ — all  the  mounds  where 
the  four  parts  of  his  body  were  separately  buried  called 
Halfdan's  mounds,  874.5 

HALFDAN  THE  BLACK  (H.  svarti),  son  of  King  Harald 
Hairfair  and  Asa,  the  daughter  of  Earl  Hakon  Griotgard's 
son,  i.  no27 — fostered  by  his  uncle,  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir, 
i370fJ — followed  the  profession  of  a  viking  in  the  '  Eastlands,' 
i2810.14 — fought  a  great  battle  in  Esthonia,  in  which  his  bro- 
ther Halfdan  the  White  lost  his  life,  i2814.15 — made  king  by 
his  father,  i3i32-i321 — attacks  at  Solvi  his  brother,  Eric  Blood- 
axe,  who  barely  escapes  being  burnt  in  the  house,  which  was 
reduced  to  ashes,  i365.n — Eric,  complaining  thereof  to  his 
father,  the  latter  gathered  a  host  against  Halfdan,  and  both 
were  on  the  point  of  battle,  when  atonement  between  them 
was  effected  by  their  mutual  friend,  the  poet  Guthorm 
Cinder,  i36n-i379 — on  hearing  that  his  brother  Eric  was 
appointed  supreme  King  of  Norway,  he  assumed  the  same 
dignity  in  Thrandheim,  14I0-142., — died  suddenly  at  a  feast 
in  Thrandheim,  and  it  was  the  common  talk  that  Gunnhild 
the  Queen  had  caused  poison  to  be  given  to  him,  i4214.18 

HALFDAN  the  Bounteous  and  the  Meat-grudging  (H.  hinn 
mildi  ok  hinn  matarilli),  the  son  of  Eystein,  King  of  Raumrick 


84  Index  I  [hal 

and  Westfold,  gave  in  war-pay  as  many  gold-pennies  as  other 
kings  gave  silver-pennies;  a  great  warrior;  married  to  Hlif, 
d.  of  King  Day  of  Westmere;  died  at  his  manor,  Holtar,  in 
Westfold;  was  laid  in  mound  at  Borro,  i.  6q30-7o21 

HALFDAN,  son  of  Frodi  the  Proud,  or  the  Peaceful,  K.  of  Den- 
mark, conquered  the  realm  of  the  Swedes  from  K.  Aun,  and 
ruled  for  five-and-twenty  years  at  Upsala;  died  in  his  bed  and 
was  laid  in  mound,  i.  425.16 

HALFDAN  GOLD-TOOTH  (H.  gulltonn),  son  of  Solvi,  father 
of  Solveig,  the  wife  of  Olaf  Tree-shaver,  i.  6522.25 

HALFDAN  HIGHLEG  (H.  haleggr),  son  of  Harald  Hairfair 
and  Snowfair,  Swasi's  daughter,  i.  i2o2 — repudiated  by  the 
father  after  Snowfair's  death,  i2i3.6 — restored  to  favour 
through  Thiodolf  of  Hvin,  and  assigned  residence  in  Ring- 
realm,  I2i.28-i224 — made  King  of  Ringrealm  by  his  father, 
i2  23  13120-22 — revolts,  in  company  with  his  brother  Gudrod 
Gleam,  against  his  father,  and  slays  his  earl,  Rognvald  o' 
Mere,  and  departs  to  the  West,  i2415.2S — his  war  with  Turf- 
Einar  in  Orkney,  defeat  and  death  by  torture  at  Einar's 
hands,  I2512-i26n  i3219.20  ii.  i6812.16 

HALFDAN,  son  of  Sigurd  a-Bush  the  son  of  Harald  Hairfair, 
father  of  Sigurd  Syr  (or  Sow),  i.  3ii6.r 

HALFDAN,  son  of  King  Sigurd  Syr  (Sow)  and  Asta,  the 
daughter  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  ii.  352r — his  faintheartedness  as 
a  child,  no(3.10 — his  childish  propensity  all  for  possessing 
many  cows,  ni8-13 

HALFDAN  THE  WHITE  (H.  hviti),  son  of  King  Harald 
Hairfair  and  Asa,  the  daughter  of  Earl  Hakon  Griotgard's  son, 
i.  no27.28 — followed  the  profession  of  a  viking  in  the  'East- 
lands,'  i2  8m3 — fell  in  battle  in  Esthonia,  i2  814.15  i3218.19 

HALFDAN  WHITE-LEG  (H.  hvitbeinn),  son  of  Olaf  Tree- 
shaver,  reared  in  Solisles  with  Solvi,  his  mother's  brother,  i. 
6529-3i — taken  to  king  by  the  Swedish  subjects  of  Olaf,  he 
conquered  Solisles  and  Raumrick,  much  of  Heathmark  and 
Thotn,  and  Hadaland,  and  part  of  Westfold ;  died  in  Thotn, 
but  was  laid  in  mound  in  Skaereid  at  Skiringsal,  6713-688 — 
had  been  King  of  Vermland  from  the  death  of  his  brother 
Ingiald,  6812.14 

HALF  (Halfr),  a  sea-king  of  fame,  iii.  2oi28 

HALL  (Hallr),  son  of  Audun  the  son  of  Hall,  an  Icelander, 


hal]  Index  I  85 

Gregory  Dayson's  banner-bearer  in  the  battle  with  K.  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad,  at  Kings'  Rock,  iii.  4oi13.17 — praised  by 
Gregory  for  valour,  4oi30-4O2o 

HALL  KODRANS-BANE,  son  of  Utrygg,  killed  Kodran 
Gudmundson,  first  cousin  of  Jorun,  the  mother  of  Thormod 
Eindridson,  when  Thormod  was  one  year  old,  is  slain  in  re- 
venge by  Thormod,  on  first  hearing  Hall's  by-name  Kodrans- 
bane  uttered,  iii.  153^3 

HALL,  son  of  Thorarin,  the  sage  of  Hawkdale,  fosterfather  of 
Ari  the  Learned  and  Teit  son  of  bp  Isleif,  trading  partner  of 
King  Olaf  the  Holy,  born  995,  set  up  house  in  Hawkdale 
(1025),  died  ninety-four  years  of  age  (1089),  i.  613.31 

HALL,  son  of  Thorgier  Leech,  a  courtman  of  King  Ingi,  pre- 
sent at  the  capture  and  torture  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  the 
account  of  which  he  dictated  to  Eric  Oddson,  iii.  36510-36712 

HALL  of  the  Side,  son  of  Thorstein  (Hallr  af  Siftu  Jtorsteins- 
son),  i.  66.6 — baptized  by  Thangbrand,  32315.19  (Hall  simply, 
ii.  2459  Hall  o'  Side,  ii.  24923) 

HALL  AD  (HalkrSr),  son  of  Rognvald  the  Mere-Earl  and  a 
concubine,  i.  1 1722 — sent  by  his  father  to  take  up  the  earldom 
of  Orkney  on  the  death  of  Earl  Sigurd,  the  brother  of  Rogn- 
vald, he  got  so  weary  of  viking-raids  that  he  resigned  the 
earldom,  became  an  ordinary  franklin,  and  returned  to  Nor- 
way, i.  i2  2n.22 

HALLANDERS  (Hallandsfarar),  inhabitants  of  the  province 
of  Halland  (men  of  Halland,  iii.  388),  1427 

HALLFRED  the  Troublous-skald  (HallfreSr  vandrarSaskald), 
son  of  Ottar,  Icelandic  poet,  2  5231-2  531 — forbidden  by  Olaf 
Tryggvison  to  sail  away  to  Iceland,  33514  2S — his  bargain  with 
Olaf  Tryggvison  for  allowing  himself  to  be  christened,  33725- 
339i3 — sues,  on  behalf  of  Earl  Rognvald  of  West-Gautland, 
for  the  hand  of  Ingibiorg,  the  sister  of  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
356i8-357o— his  dmpas  on  Olaf  Tryggvison  quoted,  252^-253^ 

2543<r255s     26°13-18    26"26l12    29"26212     36525-33    3685-13     37°23-32 

375210  376r.15  2o"377s 
HALLKEL  of  Fialir  (Hallkell  af  Fjolum),  stationed  in  the 

forehold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  353i7-ig 
HALLKEL  HUNCH  (H.  hiikr),  son  of  Joan  Butter-Bear,  and 

father   to  Simon  Sheath  and  Jon,  a  landed-man  in  Mere, 

meets,  in  the  Southisles,  Gilchrist  (Harald  Gilli),  and  brings 


86  Index  I  [hal — har 

him  together  with  his  mother  to  Norway,  iii.  29516.20  379u 

39233  3932  29-30  40223-24  28.29— renounces  the  cause  of  K.  Ey- 

stein  Haraldson,  393.29-3942 
HALLSTEIN  of  the  Firths  (Hallsteinn  or  FjorSum),  stationed 

in  the  forehold  on  board  the  Long- Worm,  i.  35316 
HALLSTEIN,  son  of  K.  Steinkel  [son  of  Rognvald],  father  of 

Ingi  [the  younger],  King  of  Sweden,  iii.  37833 
HALLWARD  (HallvarSr)Gunnarson,  one  of  K.  Sigurd  Harald- 

son's  body-guard,  slays  Sigurd  Gaud-axe,  one  of  K.  Ingi's 

body-guard,  iii.  38714.19 — falls  in  the  fight  at  Biorgvin  between 

Kings  Sigurd  and  Ingi,  38914.17 
HALLWARD  HAREKSBLESI,  an  Icelandic  poet,  celebrates 

K.  Knut  the  Mighty  in  a  song,  ii.  353]3.23 
HALLWARD  HITCH  (H.  hikri),  falls  at  Thralls'  Berg  in  the 

battle   of  Oslo    between    K.    Ingi    Haraldson   and   Hakon 

Shoulderbroad,  iii.  42619.23 
HALLWARD  the  Holy  (H.  inn  helgi),  shrine  of,  at  Oslo,  iii. 

35212  1819  31 

HALLWARD  (HallvarSr),  an  Icelander,  accomplice  of  Thor- 
kel  in  the  murder  of  Earl  Einar  Wrongmouth,  ii.  i7715.28 

HALWARD  the  Polisher  (H.  fsegir),  slain  in  the  battle  at 
Holm-the-Gray,  iii.  362]8.92 

HALLWARD  RASCAL  (H.  skalkr),  a  kinsman  of  KingEystein 
the  son  of  King  Eystein  the  Mighty  of  the  Uplands,  brings 
about  a  treaty  of  peace  between  K.  Eystein  Eysteinson  and 
Halfdan  the  Black,  i.  7831-796 

HALOGALANDERS,  Halogaland  folk  (Haleygir),  inhabitants 
of  Halogaland,  Norway,  i.  18^  i8918  3262i-22  353o-r  "•  x93i5 
2i710  2i8l7  2203  423^  iii.  2  7425 

HAMDIR,  son  of  Jonakr  and  Gudrun  d.  of  Giuki,  in  kennings 
—  a.  famed  hero,  i.  2  5o15 

HANGI,  the  hanged  one,  Odin  (doubtful),  i.  278^ 

HARALD  FLETCHER  (Haraldr  flettir),  father  of  Svein  and 
Guthorm,  iii.  2093  32431 

HARALD  GILLI  (called  Gilchrist  while  in  Ireland,  iii.  29520), 
K.  of  Norway  (1130-1136),  gave  himself  out  for  a  son  of  K. 
Magnus  Barefoot,  29520.23 — married  Ingirid,  d.  of  Rognvald, 
iii.  3i423.25 — their  son  Ingi,  34715 — his  natural  children:  by 
Thora,  d.  of  Guthorm  Graybeard,  Sigurd,  3i422-23 — by  Biadak, 
an  Irishwoman,  Eystein,  3684.6  20 — by  women  not  named: 


har]  Index  I  87 

Magnus,  368.,.,;  Brigida,  3783^  Maria,  379^  Margaret, 
379i3 — meets  Hallkel  Hunch  in  the  Southisles,  and  discloses 
to  him  his  descent,  295^3 — Hallkel  brings  him  and  his 
mother  to  Norway,  295^.^ — Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  accepts 
him  as  a  claimant  for  kingship  in  Norway  after  a  successful 
ordeal,  but  not  during  his  and  his  son's,  Magnus's  life,  295^- 
296i? — disliked  by  Magnus  Sigurd's  son,  296^3 — description 
of  him,  2973.10  3i3ir,24—  his  skill  in  running,  29710-2998— his 
narrow  escape  from  being  hanged,  300^-3025 — breaks  the 
covenant  made  with  K.  Sigurd  when  he  hears  of  his  death, 
and  is  proclaimed  king  over  one  half  of  Norway,  313.^-3147 
— his  popularity  forces  K.  Magnus  to  come  to  terms  with 
him,  3i4s.ox — K.  Magnus  breaks  the  peace  with  Harald  and 
defeats  him  in  the  battle  of  Fyrileif,  315-31704 — Harald  flies 
to  Denmark,  and  accepts  from  King  Eric  Halland  to  rule 
over,  and  eight  unrigged  longships,  31795-318- — he  gathers 
forces  and  comes  to  amiable  terms  with  the  men  of  Kings' 
Rock,  marches  north  into  the  Wick  punishing  K.  Magnus's 
adherents  severely,  3i8s-3i927 — K.  Magnus's  perplexity  how 
to  oppose  Harald,  31929-32 122 — battle  between  them  in 
Biorgvin,  defeat,  deposition,  and  maiming  of  K.  Magnus, 
32i„.-32327 — Harald  causes  Reinald,  bp  of  Stavanger,  to  be 
hanged,  3243.^ — Harald  now  sole  King  of  Norway,  32424.25 
— makes  peace  with  K.  Magnus's  party,  3348.n — warfare"  in 
Denmark  attested  to  by  Einar  Skulison,  334n.22 — his  and 
Queen  Ingirid's  kindness  to  Magnus  Einarson,  bp  of  Skala- 
holt,  in  Iceland,  33425-33614 — his  treacherous  dealings  with 
Sigurd  Slembi- Deacon,  3403-34105 — slain  by  Sigurd  and  his 
conspirators,  341^-344^  36222.24 — buried  at  Christchurch  the 
Old,  34420.03 — the  saga  of  K.  Harald,  written  by  Eric  Oddson, 
365i2-is — measures  taken  for  the  reigning  in  Norway  of  his 
sons,  347-348n 
HARALD,  son  of  Earl  Godwin  by  his  wife  Gyda,  King  of 
England  for  nine  months,  ob.  Oct.  14th,  1066,  ii.  32610.n — 
brought  up  at  the  court  of  K.  Edward  the  Confessor,  iii. 
1 5 522-20 — n's  stav  at  Rouen  and  relations  with  the  wife  of 
William  the  Conqueror,  i563.27 — asks  the  daughter  of  Wil- 
liam in  marriage,  and  is  betrothed  to  her,  i5627-i57n — returns 
to  England  and  never  came  back  for  his  bride,  i5714.18 
i8o10.12 — ever  at  the  court  of  K.  Edward,  being  guardian  of 


88  Index  I  [har 

his  treasures,  158^ — the  manner  of  his  nomination  to  the 
throne  of  England,  1587.9— accepted  king  by  a  meeting  of  the 
lords  of  the  land,  and  crowned  at  Paul's  Church,  i58ia.19 — 
his  relations  with  Tosti,  i5819.29  i59s.10  i7323-I7427— meets 
Harald  Sigurdson  at  York  with  an  overwhelming  force,  and 
defeats  him  at  Stamford  Bridge,  i733-I794— gives  leave  to 
Olaf,  Harald's  son,  and  the  remnant  of  Harald's  army,  to 
return  back  to  Norway,  i8i3.7 — marches  to  the  south  of  Eng- 
land and  fights  and  falls  in  the  battle  of  Helsingport  (Hast- 
ings), i8i7.15 — his  daughter  Gyda  married  to  K.  Valdemar  of 
Holmgarth,  270^-27 1„ 

HARALD  GOLDBEARD  (H.  Gullskeggr),  King  of  Sogn, 
father  of  Ragnhild,  the  first  wife  of  Halfdan  the  Black,  be- 
queathed, in  old  age,  his  kingdom  to  his  grandson  Harald, 
the  son  of  Halfdan  the  Black,  i.  79n.19 

HARALD  GORMSON  (H.  Gormsson),  King  of  Denmark 
(940-986),  at  enmity  with  K.  Hakon  the  Good  for  his  vic- 
torious raid  upon  Denmark,  i.  i596.n— receives  Gunnhild 
and  the  sons  of  Eric,  and  furnishes  them  with  lands  ample 
for  their  support,  and  takes  Harald  Eric's  son  into  fostering, 
'setting  him  on  his  knee,'  i59m5  2i-28~~ supplies  the  sons  of 
Eric  with  Danish  levies  for  the  invasion  of  Norway,  17414-20 
— gives  a  good  welcome  to  Hakon  the  Mighty,  Earl  of  Ladir, 
a  fugitive  from  Norway,  2i7r.n  2320.5 — resists  his  nephew 
Gold-Harald's  claim  to  kingly  dominion  in  Denmark,  23207- 
2337 — confers  with  Earl  Hakon  on  Gold-Harald's  claim,  de- 
claring his  readiness  to  slay  him  rather  than  yield,  which 
resolve  Hakon  deprecates,  23331-23418 — his  consultations  with 
Hakon,  234^-2367 — invites,  at  Hakon's  suggestion,  his  foster- 
son,  Harald  Greycloak,  to  Denmark  to  receive  from  him  the 
fiefs  he  and  his  brothers  had  formerly  held  there,  235^-236., 
24-2  3  73— connives  at  Gold-Harald's  attacking  Harald  of  Nor- 
way, whom  he  slays,  236^.03  23731-2384  2e"23922 — obtains, 
without  any  struggle,  the  kingdom  of  Norway,  and  appoints 
Hakon  earl  over  the  west  and  north,  and  Harald  the  Gren- 
lander  king  over  the  south  of  Norway,  240u-24in  ii.  25o15.19 
— invests  Eric,  the  son  of  Hakon,  with  earldom  over  Vingul- 
mark  and  Raumrealm,  i.  24913.28— receives  no  tribute  of  Nor- 
way from  Earl  Hakon,  2  5  310.15— ignoring  a  demand  from  the 
Emperor  Otto  to  become  a  Christian  together  with  his  people, 


har]  Index  I  89 

his  kingdom  is  invaded  by  the  'Keisar,'  the  national  rampart 
of  Danework  turned,  and  he  himself  with  his  army  driven  up  to 
Mars-isle  in  North  Jutland,  25318..25  255n-25719 — is  converted 
to  Christianity  together  with  all  the  host  of  the  Danes  by  the 
Emperor  and  his  bishop  Poppo,  25720.2S — causes  Earl  Hakon 
and  all  his  men  to  be  christened  at  the  same  time,  25709-258- 
— kept  faithfully  to  and  propagated  Christian  faith,  2  6o9.10 
3° J 19-30 — §oes  on  a  punitive  expedition  to  Norway  on  hearing 
of  Earl  Hakon's  apostacy,  26719.29  cf.  ii.  9731.32 — plans  a  similar 
expedition  to  Iceland  for  some  atrociously  insulting  rhymes 
on  him,  i.  2  6730-2  6819 — sends  a  wizard  in  the  shape  of  a  whale 
to  find  out  how  far  feasible  such  an  expedition  might  be,  and 
on  receiving  the  wizard's  report,  abandons  the  plan,  2  6822- 
269^  26.27 — Hakon  of  Norway  paid  no  more  tribute  to  Den- 
mark after  Harald's  armed  invasion  than  before,  26c)28.29  ii. 
4223-24  28-30 — on  refusing  to  share  the  kingdom  of  Denmark 
with  his  son  Svein,  the  latter  raises  a  rebellion  and  gives 
battle  to  his  father  in  Icefirth  in  the  island  of  Sealand,  where 
Harald  was  mortally  wounded,  i.  2  7o2.19— ruled  over  the  whole 
of  the  Wick  in  Norway  west  to  Rygsbit,  hi.  43810 
HARALD  GREYCLOAK  (H.  grafeldr),  K.  of  Norway,  961-965, 
son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunnhild,  i.  i456- — -how  he  got  his 
nickname,  2o814-2O910 — (for  his  sojourn  in  the  west,  see  Eric 
Bloodaxe,  Gunnhild,  Eric's  sons) — comes  with  his  mother 
from  the  Orkneys  to  Denmark,  and  is  taken  into  fostering 
and  '  set  on  his  knee '  by  K.  Harald  Gormson,  at  whose  court 
he  grows  up,  15921-2S — takes  the  lead  of  his  brethren  after  the 
fall  of  his  brother  Gamli,  1833.9 — invades  Norway  with  a  great 
host,  and  is  defeated  in  a  great  battle  with  Hakon  the  Good 
at  Fitiar  in  the  island  of  Stord,  i8i3-i8735 — after  the  fall  of 
Hakon,  he,  with  his  brothers,  becomes  King  of  the  middle 
part  of  Norway  (but  is  generally  in  his  saga  dealt  with  by 
Snorri  as  simply  one  of  Gunnhild's  sons,  because  Gunnhild, 
his  mother,  is  the  virtual  ruler,  though  Harald  is  the  actual 
sovereign  of  the  country.  For  convenience'  sake  we  group 
under  Harald  the  events  that  Snorri  connects  with  '  the  sons 
of  Gunnhild,' who,  in  Harald  Greycloak's  saga,  except  in  the 
very  beginning,  no  longer  figure  as  '  the  sons  of  Eric '),  and 
makes  peace  with  K.  Tryggvi  in  the  Wick  and  K.  Gudrod  of 
Westfold,  leaving  to  them  the  title  and  dominion  they  had 


9<d  Index  I  [har 

held  under  Hakon  the  Good,  i978-n  is-24  x999-u— his  Piclue 
against  Eyvind  Skaldspiller  for  lauding  in  a  song  K.  Hakon 
the  Good's  defeat  of  Harald  and  his  brothers,  19812-23 — tne7 
were  appeased  on  condition  that  Eyvind  should  become  his 
court  poet,   1 98.^-1 998— terms  of  peace  arranged  between 
Harald  (Gunnhild's  sons)  and  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir,  i9915.23 
— miserliness  of  Harald  and  Gunnhild's  sons,  199^-20 19 — 
being  Christians,  the  sons  of  Gunnhild  broke  down  temples, 
but  advanced  Christianity  in  no  wise,  20 112.18— their  reign 
signalized  by  famine,  2oi18.23— and  by  upsetting  of  K.  Hakon's 
laws  when  it  suited  them,  20i23,24 — personal  description  of 
Gunnhild's  sons,  2oi25-2024— the  plot  of  Gunnhild  and  her 
sons  against  the  life  of  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir;  the  burning  of 
the  earl  at  Oglo  by  Harald  and  Erling  his  brother,  2027-2o522 
— on  the  Thrandheimers  rising  up  as  one  man  and  appoint- 
ing Hakon,  son  of  the  Earl  Sigurd,  their  lord,  Harald  (Gunn- 
hild's sons)  retires  to  Raumsdale  and  Southmere,  20526-2o66 
— Harald  (Gunnhild's   sons)  gets  no  dues  paid  him  from 
Thrandheim  for  three  years  after  Earl  Sigurd's  fall,  2o62(3.29 — 
long  feuds  between  Harald  and  Earl  Hakon  till  they  came  to 
peace  on  the  status  quo  under  Hakon  the  Good,  2o734-2o87 
— this  peace  lasted  for  three  years,  2o810.12 — by  wiser  men's 
intervention  Harald  and  Gudrod  are  prevented  from  coming 
to  blows,  both  being  drunk,  in  consequence  of  the  provocative 
game  of  personal  comparison,  2io22-2ii4 — Harald  kills  K. 
Gudrod,  the  son  of  K.  Biorn  the  Chapman,  2ii24-2i22 — he 
and  Gudrod  his  brother  possess  themselves   of  the  Wick, 
2I22.4 — keeps  a  close  watch,  with  his  brothers,  on  their  ene- 
mies, 2i2l7.20 — Harald's  (Gunnhild's  sons')  expedition  against 
Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir;  his  escape  to  Denmark,  2i312-2i42 — 
Harald  and  his  brothers  make  themselves  masters  of  Thrand- 
heim, from  where  Harald  departs  to  the  East  Country,  2i44.n 
— Harald   (Gunnhild's  sons)  kept  at  bay  by  Earl  Hakon, 
2 1 414.31 — Harald  makes  war  on  Biarmland,  2 1 53.18 — at  a  Thing 
in  Vors  as  the  bonders  fall  on  him  he  barely  escapes  away  to 
Hardanger,  2  i532-2i65— Harald  gathers  a  great  host  to  go  to 
Thrandheim  against  Earl  Hakon,  who  escapes,  2i6ir.22 — but 
Harald  and  his  brothers  make  themselves  at  home  in  Thrand- 
heim,  2i721.29 — Harald   leaves   in   autumn    for    the   South 
Country,  2i730.31 — in  Harald's  (Gunnhild's  sons')  reign  sea- 


har] 


Index  I  91 


sons  of  scarcity  and  famine  prevailed,  2  i8n.„s — with  his  brother 
Gudrod,  when  he  had  slain  Tryggvi  Olafson,  he  searches  the 
manors  that  had  belonged  to  Tryggvi  for  Astrid  his  widow, 
224l5l9 — concerts  plans  with  his  mother  for  the  kidnapping  of 
OlafTryggvison,  2  2419.2tJ  cf.  Gunnhild — his  kingdom  plotted 
against  by  Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir,  and  Harald  Gormson  of 
Denmark,  2  34.^-2  367 — accepts  an  invitation  from  his  foster- 
father,  Harald  "Gormson,  to  come  to  Denmark  and  receive 
again  his  former  fiefs  at  his  hand,  23624-23720 — sails  to  Neck 
in  Limbfirth  in  Denmark  with  three  longships,  and  receives 
news  that  Harald  will  speedily  come  to  see  him,  237.^^— is 
attacked  by  Gold-Harald  with  nine  longships,  and  slain  with 
the  more  part  of  his  men,  23731-2382  2t3-23934  ii.  25o15.19 
HARALD  THE  GRENLANDER  (H.  grenski),  son  of  Gud- 
rod Biornson  with  a   mother  not  named,  sent  to  Roi  the 
White  in  Grenland  for  fostering,  i.  2i2r.13 — fled  after  the  fall 
of  his  father   to  the  Uplands,  and  dwelt   awhile  with  his 
kindred,  2i213.l7 — quits  Norway  for  Sweden  to  join  vikings 
there,    2i220.26 — joins  the  war-host  of  Skogul-Tosti,  and  is 
accounted  a  doughty  warrior,  2i226-2i33— joins  Harald  Gorm- 
son's  expedition  to  Norway,  24o16.18 — is  appointed  by  Harald 
Gormson  king  over  Vingulmark,  Westfold  and  Agdir  on  the 
same  terms  that  his  forefathers  had  held  these  fiefs  of  former 
kings,  24i6.12 — married  Asta,  d.  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  284^ — 
his  courtship  to  Sigrid  the  Haughty  and  death  at  her  behest, 
28415-28625  2873.133ii4.5 — his  posthumous  son  Olaf  the  Holy, 
2871416  ii.  530-6i 
HARALD  GUNNHILDSON  =  Harald  Greycloak. 
HARALD,  son  of  Hakon,  Earl  of  Orkney,  iii.  337ir 
HARALD  HAIRFAIR  (H.  harfagri),  King  of  Norway,  860- 
933,  son  of  Halfdan  the  Black  and  of  Ragnhild,  d.  of  K. 
Sigurd  Hart  of  Ringrealm,  i.  8534 

Childreii  in  marriage. — (1)  by  Asa,  d.  of  Earl  Hakon 
Griotgarth's  son,  98.21.22  sons :  Guthorm,  Halfdan  the  Black, 
Halfdan  the  White,"  Sigfrod,  noM  (2)  by  Gyda,  d.  of  K. 
Eric  of  Hordland,  9315.17  ii44.8sons:  Rcerek,  Sigtrygg,  Frodi, 
Thorgils,  daughter:  Alof  Years-heal,  ii48-io  (3)  bY  Ragnhild 
the  Mighty,  d.  of  K.  Eric  of  Jutland,  son :  Eric  Bloodaxe, 
114x2-16  (4)  by  Swanhild,  d.  of  K.  Eystein,  sons:  Olaf  Geir- 
stead-elf,  Biorn,  Ragnar  Ryckil,  H416.1S  (5)  by  Ashild,  d.  of 


92  Index  I  [har 

Ring,  sons:  Day,  Ring,  Gudrod  Skiria,  daughter:  Ingigerd, 
JI4i8-2i  (6)  by  Snowfair,  sons:  Sigurd  a-Bush,  Halfdan 
Highleg,  Gudrod  Gleam,  Rognvald,  Straightleg,  ii929-i2o3 

Natural  Children. — By  Thora  Most-staff:  Hakon  Athel- 
stane's  fosterson,  138^  ms  very  image>  x 4923-25  I5°i5-ir;  by  a 
woman  not  named,  Ingibiorg  (?),  i982S.30  ii.  190^ 

Had  for  court  skald  Thiodolf  of  Hvin  (amongst  others), 
i.  320 — Iceland  settled  in  his  reign,  431 — described  as  child, 
854-9  9*5-9 — intercedes  with  his  father  on  behalf  of  a  tor- 
mented Finn  wizard,  8519.27 — runs  away  with  the  wizard  and 
stays  away  till  his  father  dies,  8528-868 — succeeds  his  father 
at  the  age  of  ten,  gi5.7 — appoints  maternal  uncle,  Guthorm, 
head  of  body-guard,  first  counsellor  and  commander  of  his 
forces,  9i9.12 — wars  with  Gandalf,  the  sons  of  Eystein,  Haki 
Gandalfson  and  Hogni  Karason,  9i15-93i0 — Harald's  wooing 
of  Gyda,  and  vow,  9315-959 

Conquest  of Thrandheim. — Occupation  of  Orkdale,  95n.29  cf. 
997-26 — Earl  Hakon  Griotgarthson  of  Yriar  joins  Harald  in 
alliance,  9624.27 — conquest  of  Gauldale  and  Strindfolk,  9627.80 
— battle  in  and  occupation  of  Stiordale,  972.4 — defeat  of  the 
combined  forces  of  the  Kings  of  Verdale,  Skaun,  Sparebiders' 
folk  and  Isles'  folk  and  annexation  of  these  territories,  974.13 
— all  Thrandheim  won  after  the  eight  kings  thereof  had  been 
slain,  9713.1(J — these  conquests  of  Harald's  bring  about  the 
colonization  of  Iamtland,  ii.  2  7614.18 

Conquest  of  Naumdale. — King  Herlaug  buries  himself  alive 
in  a  stately  mound,  while  his  brother  Hrollaug  degrades  him- 
self to  an  earl's  degree  and  becomes  Harald's  man,  retaining 
earlshipover  Naumdale,  9719-9813 — Harald  makes  the  manor 
of  Ladir  his  residence,  9816.20 

Naval  conquests. — Har.  builds  a  dragon-galley,  9824-996 — 
defeats  and  slays  in  his  first  battle  at  Solskel  K.  Hunthiof 
of  Mere  and  K.  Nockvi  of  Raumsdale,  9916  iooJ7 — appoints 
Rognvald  the  Mighty  his  earl  over  Northmere  and  Raums- 
dale, iool7.29 — defeats  in  a  second  battle  at  Solskel  the  com- 
bined forces  of  K.  Arnvid  of  Southmere,  K.  Audbiorn  of  the 
Firths  and  Solvi  Klofi,  slaying  Arnvid  and  Audbiorn  and 
annexing  Southmere,  1013-103,. — retires  to  Thrandheim  for 
the  winter,  io39.15 — Kari  of  Berdla  becomes  his  man,  io328.30 
— goes  with  a  fleet  south  to  the  Firths  and  annexes  that  folk- 


har] 


Index  I  93 


land,  io44.6S.9 — takes  up  his  residence  at  Tunsberg  in  the 
Wick  after  four  years'  absence,  io4„.s  io58.12 

Contest  with  Sweden. — Harald  learns  how  King  Eric  Ey- 
mundson  of  Sweden  had  annexed  Vermland  (but  cf.  7220.28) 
and  extended  the  territorial  dominion  of  Gautland  north  to 
Swinesound,  io512.2] — also  that  disaffection  in  favour  of  Sweden 
was  rife  in  Westfold,  Raumrealm,  and  Vingulmark,  and  that 
the  Swede  King  contemplated  the  conquest  of  these  ter- 
ritories, 10533.30 — he  promptly  puts  an  end  to  the  sedition  at 
home,  io530-io67—  he  and  King  Eric  in  Vermland,  io67-io819 
— annexes  Vermland  to  his  realm,  io8]9.22 — deals  with  disaffec- 
tion in  Ranrealm  and  Vingulmark,  io823-io91 — his  war  in 
Gautland  and  annexation  of  all  the  territory  north  of  Gautelf 
and  Vener-lake,  of  which  he  appoints  Duke  Guthorm  governor, 
io9n-no21 

Final  Conquests  and  Consolidation  of  the  Kingdom. — Pro- 
ceeds through  the  Uplands  and  over  Dofra  mountains  to 
Thrandheim,  no21.24— battle  of  Hafursfirth  and  the  conse- 
quences of  the  crushing  defeat  of  Harald's  opponents  there, 
ni3-ii332 — expedition  to  the  west,  ii510-ii612  ii.  i6824.25 — 
he  annexes  Orkney  and  Shetland,  making  one  earldom  of 
both  groups  of  islands,  n612.14 — haircutting  and  surname, 
11 73-13 — Harald's  dealings  with  Rolf  Wend-afoot,  ii716-ii819 
— marriage  with  Snowfair  and  bewitched  state  of  mind,  H97- 
i2o.):i — Harald's  disenchantment,  i2o.22.33 — Harald's  dealings 
with  the  sons  of  Snowfair  and  Thiodolf  of  Hvin's  intercession, 
I2i3-i2  28 — his  dealings  with  Halfdan  Highleg  and  Gudrod 
Gleam  after  the  murder  by  them  of  Rognvald  the  Mere-Earl, 
I2415-i25c, — he  bestows  the  Earldom  of  Mere  on  Thorir,  the 
son  of  Rognvald,  i2  55.9— on  hearing  that  Turf-Einar,  Earl  of 
Orkney,  had  slain  Halfdan  Highleg,  King  Harald  went  west 
with  an  armed  force  and  took,  in  atonement  for  his  son,  sixty 
marks  of  gold  and  made  peace  with  Earl  Einar,  I2512-I2726 
cf.  ii.  i681(;.05  i7932  i8o2 

Harald  shares  the  realm  with  his  sons,  etc. — When  Harald 
was  fifty,  and  his  sons  were  growing  more  and  more  trouble- 
some and  dangerous  to  the  peace  of  the  land,  he  called  a 
Thing  together  in  southern  Norway  and  sanctioned  a  law 
whereby  all  his  kin  on  the  sword-side  should  be  kings,  but 
his  descendants  on  the  distaff  side  should  be  earls,  i3i3.15  cf. 


94  Index  I  [har 

ii.  3803.33 — he  divides  the  kingdom,  bestowing  on  his  sons 
one  half  of  the  revenue  of  their  dominions,  reserving  the  other 
half  for  himself,  131^-1323  which  arrangement  was  resorted 
to  by  later  rulers,  cf.  i5i14.15  20-22  24I6-n  3°^n-i5 — eacn  kinglet 
should  sit  in  the  high  seat,  but  a  step  lower  than  the  over- 
king,  while  a  step  lower  than  the  kinglets'  should  be  the  seat 
of  each  earl,  i323.5 — the  over-kingship  after  him  he  intended 
for  Eric,  i325.s  1333.5 — unsatisfactory  consequences  of  this 
arrangement,  i328.14 — instead  of  landed  dominion  Har.  gave 
warships  to  his  sons  Thorgils  and  Frodi,  who  harried  in  the 
west,  i3291.2S — Harald's  detestation  of  wizardry,  133,3.95 — n*s 
interference  in  the  quarrel  of  his  sons  Eric  and  Halfdan  the 
Black,  1363-1379 — when  seventy  years  of  age  Harald  has  a 
son,  Hakon,  with  Thora  Most-staff,  and  maintains  both  at  his 
manors,  i38x.24 — King  Athelstane  sends  a  sword  of  honour 
to  Harald,  i3827- 13903 — Harald  sends  his  son,  Hakon,  to  be 
fostered  by  King  Athelstane,  i3926-i4i19 — Harald  appoints 
his  son  Eric  over-king  over  Norway,  141 25.2r — Harald's  last 
years  and  death,  i4223-i434i496.7 — his  burial  place,  i434.16 — 
description  of  his  person  and  character,  i43lV.33 — Egil  Wool- 
sark's  estimate  of  him  as  a  military  commander,  i7530-i76u 
— Olaf  the  Swede's  estimate  of  him  as  king,  ii.  97l7.24 

Legislation  and  administration. — He  made  all  free  lands 
his  own,  and  caused  all  bonders  (franklins)  to  pay  land  dues 
to  him,  963.7 — a  highly  unpopular  policy,  i5ol7.92 — in  each 
county  or  folk-land  he  appointed  an  earl  who  should  main- 
tain law  and  right,  collect  fines  and  land  dues,  and  have  one- 
third  of  the  royal  revenues  and  the  land  dues  for  his  board 
and  costs,  967.n  28723.26 — each  earl  was  to  have  under  him 
four  hersirs  or  more,  each  of  which  was  to  have  a  salary  of 
twenty  marks,  96n.13 — each  earl  was  to  supply  at  his  own 
cost  sixty  men-at-arms  to  the  army,  each  hersir  twenty, 
9613-15 — his  regulations  in  respect  of  sub-kings,  earls,  etc., 
followed  as  precedents  in  after  reigns,  i5i14.16  i562.4  24035- 
24i1  3o812.15 — by  Harald's  fiscal  law  the  state  revenue  was  so 
increased  that  earls  had  more  income  than  the  dispossessed 
kings  had  had,  9615.1S — his  ceremonial  at  the  investiture  of 
one  who  from  a  former  kingly  state  descended  to  the  grade 
of  an  earl :  girding  him  with  a  sword,  hanging  a  shield  round 
his  neck,  naming  him  an  earl,  and  leading  him  to  the  earl's 


har] 


Index  I  95 


settle  in  the  high  seat,  989.12 — at  the  division  of  the  realm  he 
ordained  that  the  over-king  should  occupy  the  first,  the  under- 
kings  or  folk-kings  the  second,  the  earls  the  third  grade  or 
step  in  the  high  seat,  i32.2.5 — his  ordinances  in  respect  of 
selecting  his  body-guard  and  manning  his  war-galley,  98.^-99^ 
I^4ir-i9 — ms  division  of  the  realm  among  his  sons,  131-132 
— he  appoints  Eric  Bloodaxe  over-king  in  Norway,  14I25.07 — 
his  strenuous  maintenance  of  peace  in  the  land,  ii510.16 
n82.r — popular  attachment  to  his  family,  29o2.6 — his  name  a 
watchword  in  the  family,   20224.27  ii.  3509-363  389  18  31  40^ 

4  J  20-23  4  2 10-13 

HARALD  HALBERD,  see  Harald  Kesia. 

HARALD  HARDREDY  (H.inn  harSraSi),  King  of  Norway, 
1045-1066,  son  of  King  Sigurd  Sow  and  Asta,  d.  of  Gudbrand 
Kula,  ii.  352S — married  (1)  Ellisif,  d.  of  K.  Jarisleif  of  Holm- 
garth,  iii.  7622.24;  their  children:  Mary  and  Ingigerd,  iii. 
9624.25 ;  (2)  Thora,  d.  of  Thorberg  Arnison;  their  children: 
Magnus  and  Olaf,  9619.23 — his  dauntlessness  and  warlike  pro- 
pensities already  in  childhood,  ii.  no10.17  24.30  HI15-22  (I8824) 
— Amor  Earls'-skald  on  him,  23413.23 — goes  to  meet  his 
brother,  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  in  Sweden,  39o18.31— fights  in 
the  battle  of  Sticklestead  and  is  wounded,  4io5.o5  4383.7  iii. 
575-18  x ^523-26 — healed  of  his  wounds  he  makes  his  way  out 
of  Norway  to  K.  Jarisleif  in  Garthrealm,  4387.12  iii.  5719-5826 
— takes  service  with  Jarisleif,  5827-5910 — leaves  Garthrealm 
and  enters  the  service  of  Queen  Zoe  and  the  Emperor 
Michael  Katalaktus,  5910.31 — of  him  and  Gyrgir,  5931-631 — 
his  African  and  Sicilian  campaigns,  63-678  6719-7o.,6 — Haldor, 
son  of  Snorri  the  priest,  served  under  Harald,  and  told  in 
Iceland  the  saga  of  him,  67m8 — journey  to  Jerusalem,  7o26- 
72i2 — imprisonment  in  Micklegarth  and  escape,  721(r762 — 
return  to  Holmgarth  and  first  marriage,  765.29 — alliance  with 
Svein  Wolfson  against  his  nephew  Magnus"  the  Good,  77- 
79ie — breaks  faith  with  Svein  through  Magnus'  adroit  diplo- 
macy, and  receives  kingship  over  one-half  of  Norway,  which 
Magnus  confers  upon  him  according  to  ancient  custom,  7919- 
8418  883.8 — this  act  confirmed  at  a  public  assembly  followed 
by  a  feast  given  by  Harald,  8421-8714 — relations  between  nephew 
and  uncle,  8717.32  881(J-9ols — Harald's  attitude  at  K.  Magnus' 
death,  9o21-937 — Harald  formally  acknowledged  sole  King  of 


q6  Index  I  [har 

Norway,  9230-932  948.10 — Harald  and  Svein  Wolfson,  9410- 
96i<;  26-974  fri8  2i-I024  i2o13-i2i7  1 2 73-i 2  82(J— War  levee  and 
battle  at  Niz,  where  Svein  is  utterly  defeated,  129-140 — 
peace  made  between  Harald  and  Svein,  i4627-i4910 — Harald's 
character  and  attitude  towards  Iceland  and  Icelanders,  io27- 
103,5 — Harald  and  Haldor  Snorrison,  io39.28 — Harald  and 
Wolf  Uspakson,  io43.9 — his  church  building,  io421-io512 — 
strained  relations  with  Einar  Thambarskelfir  and  murder  of 
him  and  his  son,  9213.30  io63.18  io75-iio34 — Harald  averts 
rebellion  for  this  misdeed  by  promising  to  give  in  marriage 
to  Hakon  Ivarson  his  grand-niece  Ragnhild,  111-114 — the 
promise  at  first  broken  by  Harald  but  afterwards  carried  out, 
ii5-n613  ii93.15 — Harald's  persecution  of  Hakon  in  conse- 
quence of  saving  the  life  of  Svein  Wolfson  at  the  battle  of 

Niz,  13329-31  x365-22  I382"I406  i43i4-I46o4  1491s"1 52n—Harald 
and  Kalf  Arnison,  ii9]8-i2i7 — his  relations  to  Finn  Arnison, 

III8-II4      H522-2r     Il610-13     "921-26     I2Il(fI22ll     !348     I372l-31 

I4i2-i42s— Harald  founds  a  town  at  Oslo,  i2  73.10 — his 
method  of  dowsing  for  water  in  an  arid  island,  i2  793-i286 — 
Harald  and  Thormod  son  of  Eindrid,  the  slayer  of  Hall  Kod- 
ran's-bane,  i5214-i5320 — Harald's  punitive  dealings  with  the 
adherents  of  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson,  i5322-i558 — Harald,  urged 
by  Earl  Tosti,  prepares  an  expedition  to  England,  and  collects 
his  fleet  at  the  Solund  isles,  i6o19-i6321 — before  starting  he 
opens  the  shrine  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  cuts  his  hair  and  nails, 
and  locks  the  shrine  and  throws  the  keys  into  the  river  Nid, 
i638.14 — leaves  his  son  Magnus  behind  as  King  of  Norway 
and  his  one  wife  Thora,  and  takes  with  him  his  other  wife, 
Ellisif,  and  the  rest  of  his  children,  i6517.24 — Harald's  dream, 
i653.14 — his  journey  west,  1650--166 — fights  in  Yorkshire, 
i673-i6833 — the  battle  of  Stamford  Bridge  and  fall  of  Harald, 
i692-i794  i9814.23  cf.  i.  63 — the  same  day  and  hour  that  he 
fell  his  daughter  Maria  (Mary)  died  in  Orkney,  183^3 — his 
body  brought  to  Nidoyce  and  buried  at  Marychurch,  i8416.20 
— description  of  him,  i8420-i864 — Haldor  Bryniolfson's  com- 
parison of  the  brothers  Harald  and  Olaf  the  Holy,  i867.31 — 
Harald's  and  the  earlier  kings'  manner  of  drinking  in  hall, 
r93i6-i9 — tne  height  of  his  stature  marked  on  the  wall  of 
Marychurch  in  Nidoyce,  which  he  had  built,  233^  31 
HARALD  GUNNHILDSON,  see  Harald  Greycloak. 


har] 


Index  I  97 


HARALD,  son  of  Harald  Kesia  and  Ragnhild,  daughter  of 

King  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  28314.17 
HARALD  HONE  (H.  hein),  King  of  Denmark,  1076-1080, 

son  of  Svein  Wolfson,  iii.  19421-03 
HARALD  KESIA,  or  Halberd,  son  of  Eric  the  Good,  King 

of  Denmark,  marries  Ragnhild,  daughter  of  King  Magnus 

Barefoot — their  sons:  Magnus,  Olaf,  Knut,  Harald,  28314.17 

354io 
HARALD,   King  of  England,    1 035-1 040,  son   of  Knut  the 

Mighty  and  Emma,  ii.  2  714 — becomes  King  of  England  on 

the  death  of  his  father,  iii.  930.31 — dies  five  years  after  his 

father  .and  is  buried  in  Winchester,  2  55.8  5223.24 

HARALD,  son  of  Knut,  see  Gold-Harald. 

HARALD,  Earl,  son  of  Maddad,  surprised  and  captured  by 
King  Eystein  Haraldson  at  Thurso,  ransoms  himself  and 
departs,  iii.  37425-375i2 

HARALD,  son  of  K.  Olaf  Tryggvison  with  Thyri,  d.  of  Harald 
Gormson,  i.  35522-30 

HARALD  REDLIP(H.hinn  granrauSi),  King  of  Agdir,  refuses 
to  give  his  daughter,  Asa,  in  marriage  to  Gudrod  the  Hunter- 
king,  i.  7ia.5 — attacked  by  night  by  King  Gudrod,  and  slain, 
7ig.14 — his  kingdom  taken  over  by  Asa  his  daughter,  776.8 

HARALD,  said  to  be  the  son  of  King  Sigurd  Mouth,  the  son 
of  Harald  Gilli  and  Kristin  King's-daughter,  handed  over  by 
Nicolas  Periwinkle  to  Erling  Askew,  who  has  him  executed 
on  Northness  by  Biorgvin,  iii.  47726-478l7 

HARALD,  the  son  of  Svein  Twibeard  and  Gunnhild,  the 
daughter  of  K.  Burislaf  of  Wendland,  i.  2  7i16 

HARALD,  son  of  Thorkel  the  High,  receives  an  earldom  in 
Denmark  from  Knut  the  Mighty,  ii.  375l7.18 — joins  K.  Svein, 
the  son  of  K.  Knut  the  Mighty  and  Alfiva,  on  mother  and 
son  going  to  Norway,  44920 

HARALD  (his  Slavonic  name  was  Mstislav),  son  of  Valdimar 
(i.e.  Wladimir  Monomachus),  prince  in  Holmgarth,  1095- 
1125  [Grand  Prince  of  Kief,  1125-1132],  iii.  27o28-27i2 — 
father  to  Ingibiorg,  the  mother  of  K.  Valdemar  of  Denmark, 
and  Malmfrid,  queen  of  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  whose  daughter 
Kristin  was  mother  of  K.  Magnus  Erlingson,  43728"438o 

HARALD  OF  THE  WICK,  body-guard  of  K.  Eystein," slain 
by  Eystein's  brother,  K.  Sigurd  Mouth,  iii.  38520.21 

VI.  H 


98  Index  I  [har 

HARALD  THE  YOUNG  (H.  ungi),  son  of  Halfdan  the  Black 
by  his  first  wife  Ragnhild,  the  daughter  of  Harald  Goldbeard, 
King  of  Sogn,  inherited  from  his  grandfather  the  kingdom 
of  Sogn,  but  died  when  ten  years  old,  i.  7910.22 

HAREK  (Harekr),  son  of  a  King  Guthorm,  fell  with  Eric 
Bloodaxe  in  England,  i.  i54n 

HAREK  THE  KEEN  (H.  hvassi),  of  Halogaland,  a  forecastle 
man  on  board  the  Long- Worm,  i.  353s.9 

HAREK  OF  THIOTTA  (H.  6r  J5j6ttu),  son  of  Eyvind  the 
Skaldspiller,  ii.  i8920.23 — married  to  Ragnhild,  d.  of  Ami,  son 
of  Arnmod,  ii.  i9819.20 — captain  of  a  rising  in  Halogaland 
against  Olaf  Tryggvison's  project  to  christen  the  people,  i. 
3°9i9--?3 — takes  in  the  brothers  Sigurd  and  Hawk,  escaped 
prisoners  of  Olaf  Tryggvison's,  who,  when  occasion  served, 
kidnapped  Harek  and  brought  him  to  Olaf,  3243-326^ — he 
persistently  refuses  Olaf  to  become  a  Christian,  yet  is  set  free 
with  much  honour,  and  furnished  by  the  king  with  a  ship  well 
found  and  thirty  men,  32  610.29 — returned  home,  he  entraps, 
by  means  of  the  King's  men,  Eyvind  Rentcheek,  32  77.30 — 
entertains  King  Olaf  on  coming  to  christen  Halogaland,  lets 
himself  be  baptized  and  becomes  the  king's  man,  3293.7 — 
his  landgrabbing  in  Thiotta,  ii.  i^^-igoj — his  connections 
and  social  position,  190^4 — his  relations  to  King  Olaf  Harald- 
son,  i9o14.22 — favours  received  at  King  Olaf's  hands,  i9i13.18 
is  deprived  by  King  Olaf  of  one  half  of  his  bailiwick  of 
Halogaland  in  favour  of  Asmund  Grankelson,  at  which 
Harek,  though  obeying  the  King's  order,  is  deeply  offended, 
2  3  76-25 — n*s  dispute  with  Asmund  over  an  island  rich  in 
produce  settled  by  King  Olaf  in  his  disfavour,  2  92-2  94s— his 
veiled  threat  to  Asmund,  2945.8 — parts  company  with  K.  Olaf 
after  the  battle  of  the  Holy  River  and  sails  home,  beginning 
to  side  with  Knut,  33o28-3333 — he  burns  in  his  house  Grankel, 
the  father  of  Asmund,  347n-3i — becomes  Knut's  landed-man, 
receives  grants  and  the  Finn-fare  from  the  King,  2>A9i-r0 — re- 
ported to  K.  Olaf  by  Biorn  the  Marshal  as  one  of  the  chief 
rebels  against  him  in  Norway,  3813 — recruits  a  host  of  warriors 
to  oppose  Olaf's  return  to  Norway,  3885.n — declines,  on  the 
ground  of  old  age,  the  chief  command  at  Sticklestead,  42o7- 
42i2 — follows  the  banner  of  Kalf  Arnison,  4222].24  423s — in 
the  vanguard  of  the  battle,  42517 — makes  an  onslaught  on 


har — hel]  Index  I  99 

Day,  son  of  Ring,  at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  43413 — slain 
by  Asmund  Grankelson,  iii.  i7^-iS15 

HAREK  WOLF  (H.  gandr),  King  Halfdan  the  Black's  man, 
seizes  from  Haki  the  Bareserk  the  children  of  Sigurd  Hart, 
Ragnhild  and  Guthorm,  and  brings  them  home  to  his  master, 
i.  82,-83, 

HAWK  (Haukr),  a  Halogalander  imprisoned  with  his  brother 
Sigurd  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  for  refusing  to  be  christened, 
vanishes  from  prison,  turns  up  at  Harek's  in  Thiotta,  whom 
he  betrays  into  the  King's  power,  i.  3243-326^ — thereupon  he 
is  baptized  and  becomes  the  King's  servant,  327^ 

HAWK  OF  THE  FIRTHS  (H.  6r  FjorSum),  stationed  in  the 
forehold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35316 

HAWK  HIGH-BREECH  (H.  habr6k),  sent  to  King  Athelstane 
by  K.  Harald  Hairfair  with  his  youngest  son  Hakon,  to 
'  knee-set '  him  on  Athelstane's  lap,  i.e.,  to  make  K.  Athelstane 
thereby  his  fosterfather,  '  for  men  ever  account  the  fosterer 
less  noble  than  him  whose  child  he  fostereth,'  a  ruse  which 
succeeded,  i.  139.^-1403., 

HEATHMARKERS  (Heinir),  inhabitants  of  the  folkland  of 
Heathmark,  ii.  64-^  iii.  i54l7 

HEDIN  (He'Sinn),  a  legendary  sea-king,  i.   2451S  07  259,,  ii. 

4°5i7 
HEDIN  HARDMAW  (H.  harSmagi),  iii.  358^ 

HEIMDALL  (Heimdallr),  one  of  Odin's  Diar,  abode  at  Heaven- 
berg  on  coming  to  Sweden,  i.  i60g 

HELGA,  daughter  of  Priest  Andres,  and  wife  of  Einar,  32  510.n 

HELGI,  son  of  Halfdan,  King  in  Denmark,  invades  Sweden, 
and  ousts  King  Adils,  robs  his  queen  Yrsa,  who  was  Helgi's 
own  daughter,  though  he  knew  it  not,  marries  her,  and  begat 
with  her  Rolf  Kraki;  fell  in  battle  when  Rolf  was  eight 
winters  old,  i.  4927-5°12 

HELGI  THE  KEEN  (H.  hinn  hvassi),  married  to  Aslaug,  d. 
of  Sigurd  Worm-in-Eye,  their  son,  King  Sigurd  Hart,  i.  8i4.9 

HELGI,  son  of  Stari,  iii.  3639 

HELSING  (Helsingr),  son  of  King  Gandalf  of  Vingulmark,  fell 
with  his  brother  Hysing  in  battle  fighting  against  K.  Halfdan 
the    Black   at  Eid  by  the  lake  Eyir   in    S.  Raumrealm,  i. 

8or,-v, 

HELSINGS,   Helsinglanders,  folk    of:    they  of   Helsingland 


ioo  Index  I  [hem — hia 

(Helsingjar),  the  inhabitants  of  Helsingland,  i.  i636  21  ii. 

2763o  2773 
HEMING  (Hemingr),  son  of  Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir,  and  Thora, 

the  daughter  of  Skagi  Skoptison,  i.  247,3  377i9 

HEMING,  son  of  Strut-Harald,  i.  2  7o23.25 

HENRY  THE  HALT  (Heinrekr  halti),  son  of  the  Danish 
King  Svein,  the  son  of  Svein  Wolfson,  the  first  husband  of 
Ingirid,  d.  of  Rognvald,  their  sons  :  Magnus,  K.  of  Sweden, 
Rognvald  and  Buriz,  iii.  426^9-42 7„  43726.27 

HENRY  THE  BOUNTEOUS  (H.  hinn  mildi),  *.*.  H.  III., 
German  Emperor,  1039- 105 6,  married  Gunnhild,  the  daughter 
of  Knut  the  Mighty,  iii.  2  520 

HENRY,  son  of  Frederick  Barbarossa,  i.e.  H.  VI.,  Emperor, 
1190-1197,  marries  one  of  the  daughters  of  William,  K.  of 
Sicily,  the  son  of  Roger  '  the  Rich,'  K.  of  the  same  dominion, 
iii.  2565 — slays  the  Duke  of  Cyprus  and  Margrit,  '  the  lord 
of  corsairs,'  2567.10  [The  wife  of  Henry  VI.  was  Constance, 
d.  of  Duke  Roger  II.  of  Sicily,  afterwards  R.  I.,  King  of  Sicily 
and  Naples,  1131-1154,  not,  as  Snorri  has  it,  of  William  I., 
1 1 54-1 160,  his  son.] 

HERDIS,  the  mother  of  Stein,  the  composer  of  Wolf's  Flock, 
iii.  io418 

HERLAUG  (Herlaugr),  son  of  Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir,  slain  in 
the  second  battle  of  Solskel,  i.  io230.32 

HERLAUG,  King  of  Naumdale,  on  hearing  of  Hairfair's  con- 
quest of  Thrandheim,  buries  himself  alive  with  eleven  men  in 
a  howe  he  and  his  brother  Hrollaug  had  been  building  for 
three  summers,  i.  9719.29 

HERMOD  (Hermd'Sr),  one  of  the  gods,  son  of  Odin,  i.  i9212 

HIALTI  (Hjalti),  son  of  Skeggi,  married  to  Vilborg,  the 
daughter  of  Gizur  the  White,  converted  to  Christianity  by 
Thangbrand,  a  favourite  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  335^,3 — joins 
with  other  Icelanders  in  Nidoyce  to  promise  the  King  that 
Iceland  should  be  converted  to  Christianity,  33923-34012 — 
sent  together  with  his  father-in-law  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  to 
convert  the  Icelanders,  which  mission   they  accomplished, 

354i3-"5 — nas  sent  to  n*m  '  WOI"ds  and  tokens '  from  King 
Olaf  Haraldson  to  come  and  meet  him,  ii.  738.9 — he  comes 
and  has  a  good  welcome  of  King  Olaf,  who  invites  him  to 
stay  with  him  ;  having  a  seat  at  court  appointed  to  him  be- 


hig — hil]  Index  I  101 

side  Biorn  the  Marshal  they  become  speedily  friends,  8519.25 
— arranges  to  go  with  Biorn  the  Marshal  on  a  mission  of 
peace  to  Sweden,  8631-87lt5 — takes  leave  of  the  King  and 
starts  on  his  journey,  8816.26 — receives  a  loving  greeting  from 
Ingibiorg,  the  wife  of  Earl  Rognvald  of  Gautland,  she  having 
known  Hialti  at  the  court  of  her  brother,  K.  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
and  being  a  cousin  of  his  wife :  Viking-Kari :  Eric  Biodaskull 
— Astrid — Ingibiorg;  Bodvar — Olof — Gizur White — Vilborg, 
8833-894 — volunteers  to  go  alone  without  Biorn  to  meet  the 
King  of  Sweden,  and  to  find  out  how  matters  stand  at  his 
court,  9i9.25 — his  journey  to  Sweden  and  reception  at  the 
court  of  King  Olaf,  9i26-9225 — gets  into  great  favour  with  the 
King  for  pretending  to  have  journeyed  all  the  way  to  Sweden 
to  pay  him  the  land-dues  that  Icelanders  had  to  pay  to  the 
ruler  of  Norway,  9418-9515 — he  gets  him  introduced  to  Ingigerd, 
King  Olaf  the  Swede's  daughter,  and  delivers  to  her  message 
and  tokens  from  Ingibiorg,  Tryggvi's  daughter,  recommending 
him  to  the  protection  and  friendship  of  Ingigerd,  to  whom  he 
tells  that  Marshal  Biorn's  mission  is  purposed  for  settling 
peace  if  possible  between  the  two  kingdoms,  9516-9610 — he 
broaches  the  matter  of  peace  and  family  alliance  between  the 
two  kings  to  the  Swede,  who  returns  an  answer  of  stern  re- 
fusal, 9611-9825 — next  he  persuades  Ingigerd  to  try  to  soften 
her  father's  mind  in  the  matter,  9820-992— watching  his  oppor- 
tunity he  gives  Ingigerd  a  glowing  description  of  Olaf  of 
Norway  and  his  ways,  and  ascertains  from  her  that  she  would 
be  willing  to  become  his  queen  if  he  should  woo  her,  ioo3- 
ioi3— he  confides  the  secret  to  two  Icelandic  poets  at  the 
court,  and  together  with  them  converses  at  all  times  with  her 
on  the  subject,  ioi4.12 — having  thus  far  ascertained  how 
matters  stood  in  Sweden,  he  sends  his  attendants  with  letters 
to  the  lady  Ingibiorg  in  Gautland,  ioi12.21  ii45.8 — his  ride 
with  princess  Ingigerd  to  Ulleracre  to  meet  Earl  Rognvald 
of  Gautland,  his  exchange  of  civilities  with  the  Swede  King 
on  the  occasion,  n5ll7 — returns  to  Iceland  and  is  seen  off 
by  Olaf  Haraldson  with  friendly  gifts,  i37G.9 
HIGH-ONE  (Har)  =  Odin,  i.  2o733  ii.  430™  Hi.  33419 
HIGH,  the  hard-gripping  (H.  harSgreipi),  ii.  40727 
HILD  (Hildr),  daughter  of  Eric  Agnar's  son  King  of  Westfold, 
married  to  Eystein,  son  of  Halfdan  Whiteleg,  i.  68l7.20 


102  Index  I  [hil — hog 

HILD,  daughter  of  Hogni,  King  of  East-Gautland,  i.  6im3 — 
married  to  Granmar,  King  of  Southmanland,  6o20.21 

HILD,  daughter  of  Rolf  Nefia,  married  to  Rognvald  Mere- 
Earl,  i.  1 1 718.20 — pleads,  in  vain,  with  King  Harald  Hairfair 
for  mercy  to  her  son,  Rolf  Wend-afoot,  n87.19 

HILDA,  HILD,  a  Valkyrja,  i.  24927  ii.  407^  iii.  6315  175.^ 

HILDIBRAND  (Hildibrandr),  abareserk  slain  by  King  Sigurd 
Hart,  i.  8i10.13 

HILDIGUNNA  (Hildigunnr),  daughter  of  King  Granmar  of 
Southmanland  and  of  his  wife  Hild:  bears  ale  to  her  father's 
viking-guests,  and  toasts  them,  i.  60^ — sits,  against  viking 
custom,  and  drinks  with  King  Hiorvard,  and  becomes  his 
wife,  6o9.26 

HILDIR,  son  of  King  Hogni  of  East-Gautland,  i.  6iu  6222.96 

HIORVARD  (HjorvarSr),  called  the  Ylfing  (Ylfingr),  a  lea- 
king, comes  with  his  host  to  Sweden  and  allies  himself  with 
King  Granmar,  whose  daughter  Hildigunna  he  marries,  i. 
5913-6o28 — fights  in  company  with  his  father-in-law  against 
Ingiald  Evil-heart  and  makes  peace  with  him,  6i5-626 — slain 
through  treachery  by  Ingiald  Evil-heart,  6214.20 

HISING-DWELLERS  (Hisings-biiar),  the  inhabitants  of  the 
island  of  Hising,  iii.  37330  455-26  456i  459io  46o4 

HLIF  (Hlff),  daughter  of  King  Day  of  Westmere,  wife  of  King 
Halfdan  the  Bounteous  and  the  Meatgrudging,  i.  7o6 

HLODVER,  LODVER  (HloSver),  son  of  Thorfinn  Skull- 
cleaver  Earl  of  Orkney  and  Grelad,  daughter  of  Dungad  Earl 
of  Caithness,  i.  i281  24i25ii.  i6831-i692 — was  the  longest-lived 
of  his  brothers,  ruling  the  earldom  alone  when  his  brothers 
were  no  more,   ii.   i6910.12 — his   son   Sigurd  the  Thick,  ii. 

l69l2-13 

HLOKK  (Hlokk),  a  Valkyrja,  i.  20713  2421(5  iii.  5i3  g64  17507 

HLORRID  (H16rrr8i)  =  Thor,  i.  24212 

HNOSS,  daughter  of  Odr  and  Freya,  i.  246 

HOZNIR,  a  chief  among  the  Asfolk,  given  in  hostage  to  the 

Vanir,  as  one  meet  to  be  a  lord,  i.  I32s-i42 — made  lord  in 

Vanhome,  he  proved  a  failure,  wherefor  his  counsellor  Mimir 

must  pay  with  his  head,  i45.15 
HOGNI  (Hogni),  a  legendary  sea-king,  iii.  2  3410  2  8735 
HOGNI,  King  of  East-Gautland,  father  to  Hild,  the  queen  of 

King  Granmar,  i.  6in.13 — his  dealings  with  K.  Ingiald  as  the 


hog — hor]  Index  I  103 

ally  of  Granmar,  6i10.29 — his  raids  into  Swede-realm  in  revenge 
for  Granmar,  6222.29 
HOGNI,  son  of  Eystein  the  Mighty,  King  of  the  Uplands, 
conquered  'all  Heathmark,  Thotn  and  Hadaland'  from  Olaf 
Geirstead-Elf,  i.  7223.26 — -plans,  with  his  brother  Frodi,  an 
invasion  of  Hairfair's  dominions,  9i13.17 — the  brothers  make 
an  alliance  with  Hogni  Karason  and  Hersir  Gudbrand,  9214.19 
— Harald  makes  a  night  attack  on  them  and  slays   them, 

9222-93a 

HOGNI  KARASON  (H.  Karuson),  invaded  Ringrick,  a  por- 
tion of  Harald  Hairfair's  kingdom,  and  made  an  alliance  at 
Ringsacre  in  Heathmark  with  the  sons  of  King  Eystein  of 
Heathmark  and  Hersir  Gudbrand  against  King  Harald,  who 
burnt  Hogni  in  his  house  at  Ringsacre,  i.  9i1718  9214-939 

HOGNI,  of  Niord's-isle,  i.  524 

HOLMFRID  (H61mfriSr),  natural  daughter  of  King  Olaf  the 
Swede  with  Edla,  daughter  of  a  Wendish  Earl,  ii.  i394.7 — 
married  to  Earl  Svein,  the  son  of  Earl  Hakon,  i.  3772i  22 

HOLMROGA  PEOPLE  (Holmrygir),  such  of  the  Rogaland 
people  as  dwelt  in  the  islands  belonging  to  the  folk-land  of 
Rogaland  (cf.  Holmfolk,  i.  ii427),  i-  1840 — a  poetical  pars- 
pro-toto  expression  for  Norwegians,  i8919 

HOLTI  THE  NIMBLE  (Holti  hinn  frsekni),  son  of  Jarisleif, 
King  of  Holmgarth,  and  Ingigerd,  daughter  of  Olaf,  the  Swede 
King,  ii.  i5427 

HOODSWAINS  (Hettusveinar),  the  followers  of  Olaf  the  Un- 
lucky, hi.  4773 

HORDA-KARI  (HbrSakari),  a  great  hersir  of  Hordland,  i. 
2i5.n — his  descendants,  3032431 

HORDA-KNUT  (HdrSaknutr)  [son  of  Earl  Arnfinn],  King  in 
Denmark,  father  to  Gorm  the  Old,  i.  233^ 

HORDAKNUT,  King  of  Denmark,  1035-1042,  of  England, 
1040-1042,  son  of  Knut  the  Mighty  and  Emma,  ii.  2714 — 
appointed  by  his  father  viceroy  of  Denmark,  under  the 
guardianship  of  Earl  Wolf,  the  son  of  Thorgils  Sprakaleg, 
2 6721-23  3 T  610-21 — Dv  authority  of  letters  forged  by  his  mother 
under  the  royal  seal,  he  is  elected  King  of  Denmark, 
Earl  Wolf  being  the  queen's  agent  in  the  affair,  316^.317.,,, 
— with  the  aid  of  Earl  Wolf  he  levies  forces  by  land  and 
water  to  meet  the  invasion  of  the  allied  Kings  of  Norway 


io4  Index  I  [hor — hre 

and  Sweden,  31721-33 — finding  that  his  father  resented  deeply 
his  treasonable  act  of  setting  up  as  King  of  Denmark,  he 
follows  his  mother's  advice  to  lay  his  case  in  his  father's 
hands,  who  quietly  relegates  him  to  his  former  position,  318- 
3197 — appointed  King  of  Denmark  by  his  father,  349ie-i9 — 
offers  rule  in  Denmark  to  his  brother,  Svein  Alfiva's  son, 
when  he  was  turned  out  of  Norway,  iii.  914.16 — peace  made 
between  him  and  Magnus  the  Good,  each  settling,  in  case 
of  death  without  male  issue,  on  the  longest-lived  of  them  his 
kingdom,  io23-ii14  263.24  5i29.33  52^  ^i^—  King  of  England 
for  two  years,  buried  at  Winchester,  258.13  263.4  i5512 
HORDS,  Hordfolk,  Hordlanders,  Hordmen,  men  of  Hord- 
land  (HorSar),  i.  iii4  i4210  250^  255.37  3°3u  u-  36o7  423is 

43xi9  "I-  3is  36iv  15430  2o823  22422  344i6 
HORN  (Horn),  one  of  Freya's  names,  Freya,  111.  30219 

HORNKLOFI,  see  Thorbiorn  Hornklofi. 

HOSKULD  (Hoskuldr),  son  of  Koll  o'  Dales  and  father  to 
Olaf  Peacock,  i.  334x5.16 

HOUND  (Hundi),  variant  of  Whelp,  the  name  of  a  son  of 
Sigurd  the  Thick,  Earl  of  Orkney,  i.  2917 

HOWARD  BUTTERBREAD  (HavarSr  kliningr,  the  transla- 
tion of  '  kliningr '  is  a  guess-work  based  on  the  fact  that  the 
word  is  used  in  the  sense  in  the  East  of  Iceland  still ;  less 
likely  seemed  the  sense  '  dab  of  cow's  dung'  dried  for  fuel), 
a  captain  in  K.  Ingi  Haraldson's  fleet,  iii.  4°3i2 — slain  by 
Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  40314 — his  son  kills  Eindrid  Jonson 
because  he  had  ruled  it  that  his  father  was  slain,  41 59.13 

HOWARD  HEWER  (H.  hoggvandi),  a  Jomsviking,  i.  28o16 
— shoots  Gizur  of  Valdres  dead,  and  is  killed  in  turn,  28226- 
2833 

HOWARD,  of  Orkdale,  a  forecastleman  on  board  the  Long- 
Worm,  i.  353x0-11  „    ,    r  „  , 

HOWARD,  son  of  Thorfinn  Skull-cleaver,  Earl  of  Orkney,  and 
of  Grelad,  the  daughter  of  Dungad,  Earl  of  Caithness,  ii. 
i6832-i692 

HRAMMI,  a  legendary  sea-king,  iii.  4213 

HRANI,  see  Rani. 

HREIDAR  (Hreiftarr),  father  of  Styrkar,  the  father  of  Eindrid, 
the  father  of  Einar  Thambarskelnr,  i.  2 1 527_29 

HREIDAR,  son  of  Erling  Askew,  see  Reidar. 


hre — hyr]  Index  I  105 

HREIDAR,  son  of  Gritgarth,  read  Griotgarth,  slain  in  the 
attempt  of  rescuing  K.  Magnus  the  Blind,  in  the  battle  at 
Holm-the-Gray,  iii.  3627.16 

HRIST,  a  Valkyrja,  iii.  258^ 

HROLLAUG  (Hrollaugr),  King  of  Naumdale,  on  hearing  of 
Hairfair's  conquest  of  Thrandheim,  degrades  himself  from  the 
dignity  of  king  to  that  of  earl,  by  the  ceremony  of  arraying 
on  the  top  of  the  family  howe  a  kingly  throne,  and  beneath 
it  a  pillowed  foot-pace  whereon  earls  were  wont  to  sit,  and  to 
let  himself  roll  from  the  upper  unto  the  lower  seat ;  where- 
upon he  went  to  King  Harald  and  became  his  earl,  i.  9719- 

9813 

HROLLAUG,  son  of  Rognvald  the  Mere-Earl  and  a  concu- 
bine, i.  1 1723  i2530 

HUGH  THE  THICK  (Hugi  hinn  digri),  of  Avranches,  Earl 
of  Chester,  ob.  1101,  defeated  in  Anglesey  Sound  by  K. 
Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  2  2  3or.31  224.^ 

HUGH  THE  VALIANT  (H.  pniSi),  of  Montgomery,  Earl  of 
Shrewsbury  and  Arundel,  ob.  1098,  shot  dead  through  the 
eye  by  K.  Magnus  Barefoot  in  a  battle  in  Anglesey  Sound, 
where  Magnus  won  the  victory,  iii.  223^-22405 

HUGLEIK  (Hugleikr),  son  of  K.  Alf,  and  King  of  the  Swedes, 
a  man  fond  of  peace,   music,    jugglery   and  witchcraft,   i. 

3725-38 

HULD  THE  WITCHWIFE  (Huldr  serSkona,  volva),  em- 
ployed by  Drift  to  kill  her  husband,  K.  Vanland,  i.  2  72.33  and 
by  the  sons  of  Visbur  (Gisl  and  Ondur)  to  give  them  power 
to  slay  their  father,  whereto  she  added  the  spell  that  parricide 
should  ever  go  with  the  blood  of  the  Ynglings,  i.  28l7.06 

HULVID  (HulviSr),  son  of  Swipdag  the  Blind,  i.  6i24 

HUNTHIOF  (HunJ>j6fr),  King  of  Northmere,  married  to  the 
daughter  of  Nockvi,  King  of  Raumsdale ;  these  two  allied 
themselves  against  Harald  Hairfair  when  he  set  out  on  the 
conquest  of  the  coast  kingdoms  of  Mid-  and  South-Norway, 
and  had  a  battle  with  him  at  the  island  of  Solskel,  where  both 
fell,  i.  9930-ioo17 

HYRNING  (Hyrningr),  a  Lord  of  the  Wick,  married  Ingigerd, 
the  d.  of  Lodinand  Astrid,  01.  Tryggvison's  mother,  i.  3oi14.16 
— aids  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  christening  the  Wick,  302^-303.2— 
with  the  combined  forces  of  himself  and  his  brother  Thorgeir 


106  Index  I  [hys — ing 

he  slays  K.  Gudrod,  son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  34133-342 — joins 
Olaf  Tryggvison's  expedition  to  Wendland,  35810.12 — repels 
Earl  Eric's   boarding  of  the  Long-Worm   in  the  battle  of 

Svold,  37227-373i2  .  . 

HYSING  (Hysingr),  son  of  Gandalf,  King  of  Vingulmark, 
attacks,  together  with  his  brother  Helsing,  King  Halfdan  the 
Black  by  night  and  routs  him,  but  having  brought  together 
a  fresh  host  Halfdan  gave  the  brothers  a  battle  at  Eid  and 
slew  both,  i.  8o7.26 

ICELANDER,  Icelanders,  Iceland  men,  men  of  Iceland 
('Islendingr,  Islendingar),  i.  2i94.5  2682  334n  3357 17  33625  29 
33920-25  ii-  692  I77i7  24  24Ji9  242i  2452  30  249i7  26  274i3  25-26 

275s  4°920  25  Ui-    I0223    29921  26  28   3°°9   4°I32  42*26 

ILLUGI,  Bryndalers'  skald,  an  Icel.  poet,  on  Harald  Hard- 

redy's  deeds  in  Greek  service,  hi.  6317.21 
INGI,  son  of  Ami  of  Stodreim  and  Queen  Ingirid,  hi.  37°24 
INGI,  the  son  of  Bard,  King  of  Norway,  1203-12 17,  hi.  184^ 

33^27 
INGI,  son  of  K.  Hallstein,  King  of  Sweden,  ob.   11 25,  first 

husband  of  Brigida,  the  daughter  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  hi. 

37831-33  #  . 

INGI,  son  of  K.  Harald  Gilli  and  of  Queen  Ingirid  d.  of 
Rognvald,  King  of  Norway,  1136-1161,  jointly  with  his  half- 
brothers,  Sigurd,  Eystein,  and  Magnus ;  fostered  in  the  Wick 
by  Amundi,  the  son  of  Gyrd,  iii.  347i5-i7 — taken  for  king  on 
the  death  of  his  father,  34719 — defeats  Magnus  the  Blind  and 
Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  at  Mouth,  34921-35o12 — Earl  Karl  Sona- 
son  of  Gautland's  projected  invasion  of  Norway  defeated  by 
Ingi  at  Crookshaw,  350^-35 120 — his  successful  defence  of 
Norway  against  Eric,  K.  of  Denmark,  35i23-35324 — ms  dealings 
with  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  35327-3S910  361^-367 — ms  letter 
to  K.  Sigurd  his  brother,  calling  on  him  to  take  his  due  share 
in  the  cost  of  defending  the  realm,  35913-36ols — Ingi's  terms 
accepted  by  Sigurd,  36o2r36i21 — with  K.  Sigurd  he  concedes 
Eystein,  his  brother's,  cfaim  to  a  due  share  in  the  kingdom, 
a  similar  concession  extended  to  the  infirm  brother,  Magnus, 
3683-3693 — Ingi's  kind  stepfather,  Ottar  Brightling,  murdered 
at  the  instigation  of  K.  Sigurd,  369^370^— Ingi's  relations  to 
Erling  Askew,  37in.14 — Ingi  and  Sigurd  set  up  a  separate 
court,  each  for  himself,  Gregory  Dayson  becoming  Ingi's  first 


ing] 


Index  I  107 


counsellor,  37  73.24— Ingi's  personal  characteristics,  37821-31— 
a  great  favourite'with  Card.  Nicolas  (Breakspeare),  37920-28 — 
at  his  and  his  brothers'  request  the  Card,  raises  Nidoyce  to 
an  archbishopric,  37928-38o4 — Ingi  defeats  his  brothers'  plot 
to  depose  him,  385^-38635 — after  repeated  provocations  K. 
Ingi  consents  to  fighting  his  brother  Sigurd,  who  is  slain, 
386o8-39o10 — Eystein,  arriving  too  late  to  afford  any  aid  to 
Sigurd,  makes  a  hollow  peace  with  K.  Ingi,  39on.24 — Eystein 
commits  various  deeds  of  violence  against  his  brother,  who 
forces  him  to  accept  his  own  terms  of  peace  at  Seal-isles, 
39i19-392O0 — their  last  encounter  and  fall  of  Eystein,  393^- 
39613  —  Ingi  and  the  partizans  of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad, 
399o-i9 — ne  and  Gregory  Dayson  put  Hakon  to  flight  at  Kings' 
Rock,  399.21-40215 — King  Ingi's  men  suffer  severely  at  Hakon's 
hands,  402^-403^ — battle  with  Hakon  in  the  Gautelf,  4°3is~ 
4i520 — K.  Ingi  and  Sigurd  of  Reyr,  41 527.29— Ingi's  dealings 
with  Erling  Askew  and  Gregory  in  the  Biorgvin  riot,  4i624- 
4i82S — Ingi's  sorrow  at  the  fall  of  Gregory,  422-423^ — last 
encounter  with  Hakon  and  fall,  423^-42  712  45610 — his  party 
advocate  the  cause  of  Erling  and  his  son  Magnus,  435a"437i3 
— his  fleet  in  Hakon's  hands,  43817.20 — lost  to  Erling  at  the 
battle  of  Tunsberg,  44o24.27— his  death  avenged  by  Erling, 
44^18-25  4522"4554 — ms  popularity  the  main  cause  of  Erling's 
favour  with  the  public,  44910-i4 
INGI,  King  of  Sweden,  1080-^r.  n  10,  son  of  K.  Steinkel,  father 
of  Margaret  Frithpoll,  queen  of  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  2  3219.21 
and  of  Kristin,  queen  of  K.  Harald  Valdemarson  of  Holm- 
garth,  2  7o28-2  7i4  and  of  Rognvald,  the  father  of  Ingirid,  the 
queen  of  K.  Harald  Gilli,  3i423.25 — his  strife  with  Magnus 
Barefoot  about  the  boundary  between  Norway  and  Sweden, 
2  269-22819  2362.10 — battles  at  Foxern,  22829-2292G  2310-2323 — 
peace  made   and  family  alliance  arranged   between   them, 

INGIALD  EVIL-HEART  (I.  illraSi),  son  of  K.  Road-Onund, 
King  of  Sweden,  fostered  by  Swipdag  the  Blind,  a  kinglet  of 
Tenthland,  who,  in  order  to  increase  the  boy's  pith,  gives 
him  to  eat  the  roasted  heart  of  a  wolf,  wherefrom  he  grew  the 
most  cruel-hearted  of  men,  i.  553-562 — he  married  Gauthild, 
daughter  of  King  Algaut  of  West  Gautland,  568.12 — had 
burned  in  one  hall  at  Upsala  six  kinglets  of  Sweden  and 


108  Index  I  [ing 

seized  their  lands,  579-597 — his  war  with  Granmar  and  Hior- 
vard,  6i5-626 — his  treachery  to  these  kings,  6214..22 — his 
dealings  with  King  Hogni,  6222.29 — his  children,  6230-635 — 
slew  twelve  kings  through  treachery,  whence  his  by-name, 
636.9 — burned  himself  with  all  his  men  to  death,  6319-6420 

INGIALD  (Ingjaldr),  son  of  Olaf  Tree-shaver,  i.  6529 — King 
of  Vermland,  68n.12 

INGIBIORG  (Ingibjorg),  daughter  of  Priest  Andres  the  son  of 
Bruni,  wife  of  Sasmund  Housewife,  iii.  325: 

INGIBIORG,  daughter  of  Guthorm  the  son  of  Steig-Thorir, 
married  to  K.  Eystein  Magnusson,  their  d.  Maria  married  to 
Gudbrand,  son  of  Shavehew,  iii.  265^ 

INGIBIORG,  d.  of  Harald  Hairfair,  married  to  Earl  Halfdan, 
their  d.  Gunnhild  mother  to  Eyvind  Skaldspiller,  i.  i9828.30 
ii.  i9o5.7 

INGIBIORG,  daughter  of  Harald  (Mtzislav)  Valdimarson  of 
Holmgarth  and  sister  of  Malmfrid,  whom  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer  had  to  wife,  married  to  Knut  the  Lord,  iii.  27i4.5 

INGIBIORG,  daughter  of  Ogmund,  son  of  Thorberg,  wife  of 
Egil,  the  son  of  Aslak  of  Aurland,  iii.  2oq22 

INGIBIORG,  daughter  of  Thorkel  Leira,  i.  2  733.4 — given  by 
Earl  Eric  in  marriage  to  Vagn  Akison,  2  833.7.33 

INGIBIORG,  daughter  of  K.  Tryggvi  Olafson  and  Astrid, 
i.  30is  ii.  8324 — -personal  description,  i.  3563.r — her  fondness  for 
Icelanders,  especially  Kiartan  Olafson,  3567.12 — her  betrothal 
to  Earl  Rognvald  of  West-Gautland  bespoken,  356^-35 728 — 
their  wedding  spoken  of  as  effected  in  King  Olaf  s  lifetime, 
ii.  23r.10 — brings  about  friendship  between  her  husband  and 
King  Olaf  Haraldson  of  Norway  in  spite  of  the  Swede-king's 
hostility  to  Olaf,  8322-8416 — gives  good  cheer  to  Olaf  Harald- 
son's  messengers  of  peace,  Biorn  the  Marshal,  Hialti  Skeg- 
gison  (Sigvat  Thordson,  etc.),  882r9i5 — urges  her  husband 
to  be  of  avail  to  Olaf's  messengers,  8g10.14  9o4.20 — agrees  to 
Hialti's  proposal  to  go  by  himself  and  find  out  how  matters 
stand  at  the  court  of  Sweden,  and  fits  him  becomingly  out  for 
his  journey  with  tokens  to  Ingigerd  of  Sweden  to  speed  his 
errand,  919-92,3 — receives  messages  from  Hialti  Skeggison  and 
the  princess  Ingigerd  of  Sweden  relating  to  prospects  of 
peace  and  family  alliance  between  the  Kings  of  Norway  and 
Sweden,  1 145.16— her  sons,  15431-32 


ing] 


Index  I  109 


INGIBIORN  SIPIL  (Ingibjorn  sipill),  a  landed-man  of  King 
Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  slain  by  command  of  Erling  Askew, 
iii.  4415 

INGIGERD  (IngigerSr),  iii.  184^— read  Ingirid. 

INGIGERD,  daughter  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosaand  Brigida,  daughter 
of  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  379,3 — married  to  Sorkvir,  the  Swede- 
king,  3797 

INGIGERD,  daughter  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Ashild,  the 
daughter  of  Ring  Dayson,  i.  1 i418.91 

INGIGERD,  daughter  of  Harald  Hardredy  and  Queen  Ellisif, 
iii.  9603.05 — accompanies  the  King  on  his  expedition  to  Eng- 
land, 16500 — left  behind  in  the  Orkneys,  i665 — leaves  the 
west  with  Queen  Ellisif,  her  mother,  1833 — married  to  K. 
Olaf  of  Denmark,  the  son  of  Svein  Wolfson,  i942S-i952 

INGIGERD,  daughter  of  Lodin  and  Astrid,  the  molher  of  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  i.  30 17 — married  to  Hyming,  a  wealthy  man  in  the 
Wick,  30i14.16 

INGIGERD,  daughter  of  Olaf,  King  of  Sweden,  married  to 
Jarisleif,  K.  of  Holmgarth,  her  children  :  Valdimar,  Vissivald, 
Holti  the  Nimble,  ii.  i5426-27  ar>d  Ellisif,  iii.  762324  7720.21 — 
receives  from  Ingebiorg  Tryggvi's  daughter  message  and 
tokens  to  speed  Hialti  Skeggison's  mission  of  peace  to 
Sweden,  ii.  922.0 — receives  Hialti  in  audience  and  their 
acquaintance  soon  develops  into  intimate  friendship,  9516- 
9610 — at  Hialti's  suggestion  she  pleads  for  peace  with  her 
father  and  receives  a  stern  rebuke,  98.^-1  oo2 — her  account 
to  Hialti  of  the  interview,  ioo3.9 — her  converse  with  Hialti 
and  the  court  poets  on  the  question  of  being  wooed  by  King 
Olaf  Haraldson,  ioo10-ioiu — she  sends,  by  Hialti's  messen- 
gers to  West-Gautland,  letters  to  Earl  Rognvald  and  Ingibiorg 
his  wife  concerning  the  proposed  wooing  on  behalf  of  Olaf 
of  Norway,  ioi15.20 — at  the  request  of  Earl  Rognvald  she 
receives  him  at  Ulleracre  to  talk  over  matters  relating  to 
peace  and  especially  to  family  alliance  between  the  Kings  of 
Norway  and  Sweden,  ii425-n614 — her  father,  yielding  to 
pressure  by  Lawman  Thorgnyr,  promises  her  in  marriage  to 
Olaf  of  Norway,  entrusting  Earl  Rognvald  with  the  betrothal 
arrangements,  12ijg.22i22j.3Q — she  sends  Olaf  of  Norway  costly 
gifts,i2  220.22 — theappointed  wedding-feast  of  her  and  King  Olaf 
comes  to  nought,  i23sl3  1370,3-138  i392u_I4°3 — whereat  many 


no  Index  I  [ing 

people  grew  dissatisfied  and  Ingigerd  particularly  troubled  in 
mind,  i4o4.25 — her  father  refuses  her  peremptorily  his  consent 
to  her  marriage  with  Olaf  of  Norway,  I4028-I422 — she  sends 
messengers  to  Earl  Rognvald  to  tell  him  the  truth  about  her 
father's  change  of  mind,  142^3 — she  informs  Earl  Rognvald 
that  she  is  being  wooed  by  King  Jarisleif  of  Holmgarth,  and 
that  her  father  is  all  in  favour  of  the  match,  1 4818.24  (I5°25-2s) 
— she  is  formally  wooed  by  and  betrothed  to  King  Jarisleif; 
her  consent  being  granted  on  condition  that  Earl  Rognvald 
accompany  her  to  Garthrealm,  and  receive  there  the  earldom 
of  Aldeigia-burg,  i5312-i54oo—  she  goes  in  company  with  Earl 
Rognvald  to  Russia,  and  marries  King  Jarisleif,  i5420.26— she 
confers  on  Earl  Rognvald  Aldeigia-burg  and  the  earldom 
appertaining  thereto,  154-27-29 — receives  K.  Olaf  of  Norway  a 
fugitive  in  Russia,  36925.28—  urges  him  to  accept  K.  Jarisleif's 
offer  of  Bulgaria  as  a^dominion  for  him,  38i9.12 — a  similar 
offer  repeated  in  vain,  38524-386n 

INGIMAR  (Ingimarr),  of  Ask,  son  of  Svein,  gets  his  bane- 
wound  at  the  battle  of  Fyrileif,  iii.  3 1 720.22 

INGIRID  (Ingin'Sr),  daughter  of  Lodin  and  Astrid,  the 
mother  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  3oi7 — married  Thorgeir,  a 
wealthy  man  of  the  Wick,  3oi12.15 

INGIRID,  d.  of  Rognvald,  the  son  of  Ingi  Steinkelson  K.  of 
Sweden,  iii.  3i423.25 — married:  1.  to  Henry  the  Halt,  issue: 
Magnus,  K.  of  Sweden,  Rognvald,  '  an  earl  there,'  42629.31  and 
Buriz,  437.20-27 — 2- t0  K-  Harald  Gilli,  issue:  Ingi,  K.  of  Nor- 
way, 31423-25  34216  347i4-i5— 3-  to  Ottar  Brightling,  3K-7— 4- 
to  Ami  of  Stodreim,  issue:  Ingi,  Nicolas,  Philippus,  Margaret, 
37°22-27 — nas  a  son>  Worm  King's  brother,  with  Ivar  Skewer, 
37°i8-2o — her  measures  for  securing  the  succession  in  Norway 
to  the"  sons  of  Harald  Gilli,  347-348n — incites  her  son  Ingi 
to  put  down  his  brother  Sigurd's  repeated  acts  of  provocation, 
38 714.25— betakes  her  to  Denmark  in  company  with  Erling 

Askew,  43  7 10-27 
INGIRID,  daughter  of  King  Sigurd  Syr  (Sow)  and  Asta,  the 
daughter  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  ii.  3528 — married  to  Nefstein; 
their  daughter   Gudrun,  wife  of  Skuli   King's  fosterer,   iii. 

l844-7 
INGIRID,  daughter  of  Svein  Wolfson,  K.  of  Denmark,  married 

to  King  Olaf  the  Quiet  of  Norway,  iii.  i942r 


iri — iva]  Index  I  1 1 1 

IRISH,  Erse-folk  (Irar),  i.  132^  i5517  2626ii.  i7421  iii.  240^  19 

24JS  13  23  24226 

IRON  SKEGGI,  see  Jam  Skeggi. 

ISLE-DANES  (Eydanir),  Danes  from  the  islands  of  Denmark, 

Danes  generally,  i.  18905 
ISLE-FOLK  (Eynir),  the'inhabitants  of  the  folkland  Eynafylki 

(Isle-folk)  in  Thrandheim,  i.  s62u  ii.  i9631 
ISLEIF  ('Isleifr),  son  of  Gizur,  the  first  bishop  of  Iceland,  born 

1006,  bishop  1056-1080,  i.  619  23  29 
ISLE-SYSLINGS  (Eysyslir),  inhabitants  of  Isle-sysla,  ii.  95  13 
ISRID  ('IsriSr),  daughter  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  married  to  Thord 

Bigbelly,  ii.  249^ 
I VAR  DINT  ('Ivarr  dynta),  son  of  Stari,  in  the  battle  of  Holm- 

the-Gray,  iii.  363$ — his  execution,  3631S.27 
IVAR  OF  ELD  A,  father  to  Bergliot  and  Ogmund,  iii.  41520.03 

4i66.7 

IVAR  GAUDHANK  ('I.  skrauthanki),  son  of  Calf  the  Wrong, 
bishop  of  Nidoyce  after  n 39,  iii.  358n  36231.33 — his  peril 
at  the  battle  of  Holm-the-Gray,  362^-363^ — tells  to  Gudrun 
Birgir's  daughter,  and  she  again  to  Eric  Oddson  the  story  of 
the  execution  of  Ivar  Dint,  36318.28 

IVAR,  son  of  a  king  Guthorm,  fell  with  Eric  Bloodaxe  in  Eng- 
land, i.  i54u 

IVAR,  son  of  Hakon  Maw,  a  captain  in  Hakon  Shoulderbroad's 
host,  at  the  battle  of  the  Gautelf,  against  Ingi  Haraldson, 
1 1 59,  iii.  412^-4135 

IVAR  INGIMUNDSON,  an  Icelandic  poet  at  the  court  of  K. 
Eystein  Magnusson,  and  much  beloved  of  the  King,  iii.  265 
15.18 — is  cured  of  love  sickness  by  the  King,  265^-26700 — 
sings  in  the  poem  called  Sigurd-balk  of  the  trial  by  ordeal  of 
Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  for  his  paternity,  33705.33 — and  of  his 
acceptance  as  king  by  Hordlanders  and  Sogners,  34413.21 

IVAR,  son  of  Kolbein,  one  of  the  slayers  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii. 
343e3^222-24 — falls  in  the  battle  at  Holm-the-Gray,  iii.  36218.22 

IVAR,  son  of  Ozur,  a  follower  of  Magnus  the  Blind,  captured 
at    Biorgvin   by  K.    Harald   Gilli's   men   and    blinded,   iii. 

323l3  26-27 

IVAR,  son  of  Rognvald  the  Mere-Earl,  fell  in  Harald  Hair- 
fair's  warfare  in  the  Scottish  isles,  i.  ii6n.12 
IVAR,  son  of  Sigtrygg,  of  Nerick,  ii.  369^ 


1 1 2  Index  I  [iva — jar 

IVAR  SKEWER  ('I.  sneis),  by  Queen  Ingirid  Rognvald's 
daughter  the  father  ofWorm  King's  Brother,  iii.  37°18.20 

IVAR  SMETTA  ('I.  smetta),  stationed  in  the  mainhold  of  the 
Long-Worm,  i.  35324 

IVAR  WIDEFATHOM  ('I.  VfSfaSmi),  son  of  Halfdan  of 
Scania,  i.  6313.14 — went  to  Sweden  to  avenge  the  death  of 
his  father  and  uncle,  and  pressed  so  hard  on  King  Ingiald 
that  he  burned  himself  with  all  his  court  in  a  banqueting 
hall,  6319-6420 — his  conquests,  6423.26 — of  his  kin  are  all  who 
since  his  day  have  been  kings  in  Denmark,  and  all  who  have 
been  sole  kings  of  Sweden,  6426.29 — many  people  fled  his 
realm  of  Sweden  and  joined  Olaf  Tree-shaver  in  Vermland, 

663.5 
IVAR    THE    WHITE    ('I.   hviti),  a  Norwegian,   slays    Earl 

Wolf  at  the  behest  of  King  Knut  the  Mighty,  ii.  327r.15 
IVAR  THE  WHITE,  daughter's  son  of  Hakon  the  Mighty, 

a  landed-man  of  the  Uplands,  father  to  Earl  Hakon  (the 

White),  personal  description,  iii.  io515.J9 
JADAR  (The  folk  of)  (Jadarbyggjar),  ii.   2  68n;   men   of  J., 

specially  alluding  to  the  family  of  Erling  Skialgson,  2855 
JALFAD,  one  of  Odin's  names,  Odin,  ii.  44o9 
J ALK,  one  of  Odin's  names,  but  Jalk  of  snowshoes  =  Uller,  i. 

246n — Odin,  ii.  2oo25 
JAMES  (Jakob),  King"  of  Sweden,  son  of  K.  Olaf  the  Swede, 

born  on  the  vigil  of  St.  James,  ii.   i398.n  which  name  he 

retained  until  he  was  elected  king,  i6310  18  165^  18  when  he 

was  renamed  by  the  Swedes  Onund,  i6590,  q.v. 
JAMTLAND-DWELLERS,  see  Jamts. 
JAMTLANDERS,  see  Jamts. 
JAMTS  (Jamtr),  inhabitants  of  Jamtland,  i.  254^  2552  ii.  276^ 

2  773  13  23  25  29425  29620  m-    26335  2643  11  14 

JARISLEIF  (Jarizleifr),  Jaroslav,  King  of  Holmgarth,  i.e., 
Grand  Prince  of  Kief,  ioi6-io54,suesforthehandof  Ingigerd, 
K.  Olaf  the  Swede's  daughter,  ii.  i4818.24  I5°27-2s— sends  an 
ambassade  for  her  and  marries  her  in  due  course,  I5312- 
i5426— their  children,  i5426-27  in-  7624  7720-2i — §ives  a  hearty 
welcome  to  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  on  coming  to  Russia  a  fugitive 
from  his  kingdom,  36923.28  31-37o4 — presses  King  Olaf  in  vain 
to  take  up  his  abode  in  Russia,  and  become  ruler  of  Bulgaria 
or  some  other  suitable  dominion,  38i6.l7  38524-3865 — gives 


jar — joh]  Index  I  113 

K.  Olaf  a  most  kindly  send-off,  3865.n  16.21 — on  K.  Olaf  s  de- 
parture he  retains  at  his  court  Magnus  his  son,  3S622 — his 
negotiations  with  Einar  Thambarskelfir  and  Kalf  Arnison  with 
a  view  to  putting  Magnus  Olafson  on  the  throne  of  Norway, 
466, ,-,-46704 — receives  Harald  Sigurdson,  K.  01.  Haraldson's 
half-brother,  and  appoints  him  to  command  in  his  land  forces, 
43810-12  iii-  5815-59i0 — takes  care  of  the  wealth  Harald  sends 
him  during  his  service  with  the  Greek  Emperor,  6304-640  765.12 
— receives  Harald  most  kindly  on  his  return  from  Greece,  and 
gives  him  in  marriage  his  daughter  Ellisif,  765.7  n.w 

JARNSKEGGI  (Jarnskeggi),  son  of  Asbiorn,  from  Uphowe  in 
Yriar,  i.  2i5o6 — commands  in  Svein  Hakonson's  division  of 
Earl  Hakon's  fleet  in  the  battle  of  Hiorungwick,  2  7721 — 
opposes  Olaf  Tryggvison  at  Frostathing  on  behalf  of  the 
bonders  on  the  question  of  Christianity,  31 7.2^31 — leads  the 
opposition  against  Olaf  at  the  Thing  of  Mere,  and  is  slain 
by  the  king's  men,  320^  3^32 13  7.9 — in  atonement  for  the 
slaying  of  him,  Olaf  Tryggvison  weds  his  daughter  Gudrun, 
32  23.9 — his  body,  brought  out  to  Yriar,  lies  buried  in  Skeggi's- 
howe  by  Eastairt,  3223^3230 

JARTRUD  (JarSpru'Sr),  daughter  of  John  Arnison  and  Ran- 
veig,  daughter  of  Sigurd,  the  son  of  Thorir  Hound,  iii.  i710.14 

JESUS  CHRIST,  see  Christ. 

JOAN,  see  under  John. 

JOHN  (J6n),  son  of  Ami,  wedded  to  Ranveig,  the  daughter  of 
Sigurd,  the  son  of  Thorir  Hound,  iii.  i7n — flees  from  Birch- 
isle  with  his  son  Vidkunn  from  Steig-Thorir,  and  seeks  the 
protection  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  2iij.,0 

JOHN  BUTTER-BEAR  (J.  smjorbalti),"the  father  of  Hall- 
kell  Hunch,  iii.  29517 

JOHN  BYRGISON,  first  Archbishop  of  Nidoyce  1152-1157, 

iii-  363l>8  3793o  456i5 
JOHN  of  Eastort,  son  of  Sigurd  of  Eastort,  the  son  of  Kari 

King's-brother,  had  to  wife  Sigrid,  daughter  of  Bard,  sister 

of  King  Ingi  and  Uuke  Skuli,  iii.  33625.26 

JOHN,  son  of  Hallkel  Hunch,  married  to  Margaret,  daughter 

of  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  37913 — goes  over  to  the  side  of  King 

Ingi  in  opposition  to  King  Eystein,  3930  30 — gathers  a  bonder 

host   and  sets  upon    Hakon    Shoulderbroad's    men — takes 

Kolbein  the  Woode,  40228^5 — wounded  in  a  further  pursuit 

VI.  1 


1 1 4  Index  I  [joh 

of  Hakon's  men,  40231 — declines  the  proposal  of  Erling 
Askew  to  set  his  nephew,  Nicolas,  son  of  Simon  Sheath  and 
Maria  d.  of  Har.  Gilli,  on  the  throne  of  Norway,  43516.21 — 
Erling  Askew  seizes  Nicolas  out  of  John's  house,  and  secures 
his  person,  44325.31 — is  giyen  truce  by  Nicolas,  son  of  Sigurd, 

4582o 
JOHN   KAUDA  (J.  kauSa),  son  of  Calf  the  Wrong,  brother 

to  bishop  Ivar  Gaudhank,  sent  by  K.  Sigurd,  son  of  Harald 

Gilli,  in  search  of  Sigurd  Slembi- Deacon,  an  errand  of  which 

he  acquitted  himself  ignominiously,  iii.  3587.18 — married  to 

Cecilia,   d.  of  Gyrd   Bardson,   3633 — ransoms   his   brother 

Ivar  and  Arnbiorn  Ambi  from  the  hands  of  the  victors  at 

Holm-the-Gray,  36316.18 

JOHN  KITTEN  (J.  ketlingr),  son  of  Gudrun  of  Saltness, 
joins  the  band  of  Eystein  Maiden,  iii.  48318.25 

JOHN,  son  of  Lopt  the  son  of  Saemund  and  Thora  the 
daughter  of  Magnus  Barefoot,  fostered  by  Priest  Andres  at 
Kings'  Rock,  iii.  325., — his  royal  descent  acknowledged  at 
Biorgvin,  1162,  by  K.  Magnus  Erlingson  and  other  relatives, 

46  1 20-25 

JOHN  KUTIZA,  son  of  Sigurd  Stork,  journeys  with  Erling 
Askew  and  K.  Magnus  to  Denmark  to  meet  King  Waldimar, 

iii-  4372i 
JOHN,  Swedish   King,   12 16-12 22,  son   of  Sorkvir,  King   of 

Sweden,  and  Ingigerd,  d.  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosa  by  Brigida,  d. 

of  K.  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  37831-3798 

JOHN  THE  STRONG  (J.  sterki),  of  Rasmead,  son  of  Wolf 
Uspakson  and  Jorun,  d.  of  Thorberg  Arnison,  iii.  io46.10  — 
father  of  Erlend  Homebred,  who  was  the  father  of  Abp.  Ey- 
stein, io413.14 

JOHN  SPARROWHAWK  (J.  smyrill),  Priest,  delegated  by 
K.  Sigurd,  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  to  give  chase  to  Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon  in  company  with  Jon  Kauda,  iii.  35812.18 

JOHN  SUETNEB  (J.  mornefr),  iii.  39416 

JOHN,  the  son  of  Svein,  the  son  of  Bergthor  Buck,  on  the  side 
of  K.  Ingi  before  the  beginning  of  the  battle  of  Oslo;  he 
afterwards  deserts  him  and  joins  the  army  of  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad,  iii.  42428.29  4256.10  4263.6 — fights  on  the  side  of  Hakon 
in  his  last  battle,  44i9.10 — falls  with  Earl  Sigurd  Hallwardson 
of  Reyr  in  the  battle  of  Re,  4552-3 


joh — jor]  Index  I  115 

JOHN  TABARD  (J.  taparSr),  Priest,  son  of  Biarni  Sigurd- 
son,  slain  by  King  Sigurd,  son  of  King  Harald   Gilli,   iii. 

3"5io  -2i 
JOHN,  son  of  Thorberg  from  Randberg,  wedded  to  Ragnhild, 

daughter  of  Erling  Askew  and  Kristin  King's-daughter,  iii. 

4749-n 

JOKUL  (Jokull),  son  of  Bard  J  okulson,  out  of  Waterdale,  an  Ice- 
lander in  Earl  Kakon  Ericson's  host  when  pursuing  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson,  ii.  372^-3730 — appointed  captain  of  K.  Olaf's 
captured  warship  the  Bison,  3733.12 — falls  in  with  Olaf's  host 
in  Gotland,  on  Olaf's  return  from  Garthrealm,  1030,  and  is 
laid  hands  on,  and  by  the  King's  orders  lead  to  execution, 
but  receives  from  the  executioner  only  a  mortal  wound,  and 
sings  of  his  dying  state,  37313-33 

JOMALI,  god  of  the  Biarms,  placed  within  a  fenced  clearing  in 
a  wood,  six  men  being  charged  with  watching  the  place  at 
night;  on  his  lap  a  silver-bowl  full  of  silver  money,  round  his 
neck  a  great  necklace;  robbed  and  destroyed  by  Thorir 
Hound  and  Karli  of  Long-isle,  ii.  26i<)-26222 

JOMSBURGERS,  Jomsburg  vikings,  etc.  (Jomsvikingar),  the 
celibate  band  of  vikings  who  held  Jomsburg,  the  castle  of 
Tom,  and  more  particularly  the  captains  of  them,  Palnatoki, 
Sigvaldi  and  his  brethren,  the  sons  of  Strut-Harald,  Bui  and 
Sigurd,  the  sons  of  Veseti,  and  Vagn,  the  son  of  Aki,  put 
Svein  Twibeard  on  the  throne  of  Denmark,  i.  2  7o9.21 — their 
intervention  between  K.  Svein  and  K.  Burislaf  of  Wendland, 
2703^271^ — at  the  grave-ale  after  Strut-Harald  and  Veseti  and 
Harald  Gormson  vows  were  made  from  which  followed  the 
invasion  of  Norway  by  these  vikings,  and  of  England  by  K. 
Svein,  27103-273^ — the  Jomsburgers  collect  in  Limbfirth  a 
host  of  sixty  ships  and  set  out  for  Norway,  ravaging  and 
wasting  the  country  till  they  meet  Earl  Hakon  in  Hiorund- 
firth,  274^-27605 — the  battle  of  the  Jomsburgers,  276^-28203 

36l20H.    26rj.(;  4 2. 23.2s 

JON,  see  under  John. 

JORUN  (J6runn),  daughter  of  Valgerd  the  sister  of  Gudmund 

the  Mighty  of  Maddermead,  Iceland,  married  to  Eindridi; 

their  son  Thormod,  iii.  1 53^ 
JORUN  the  Skald-maiden  (J.  skaldm?er),  author  of  a  poem 

called  Sentbit  (Sendibitr),  i.  i374.9 


1 1 6  Index  I  [jor — KAL 

JORUN,  daughter  of  Thorberg  Arnison,  and  sister  of  Thora 
the  wife  of  Harald  Hardredy,  given  in  marriage  by  Harald  to 
Wolf  Uspakson,  iii.  io47.9 — her  children,  io49.15 

JORUND  (Jorundr),  son  of  K.  Yngvi  Alrekson,  overcame,  in 
company  with  his  brother  Eric,  King  Gudlaug  of  Halogaland 
and  hanged  him  at  Streamisle-ness  in  Denmark,  i.  393.29 — 
became  King  at  Upsala,  having  defeated  K.  Haki  at  Fyris- 
mead;  is  defeated  in  Jutland  by  K.  Gylaug  of  Halogaland 
and  hanged  there,  39^-41^ 

JOSTEIN  (J6steinn),  son  of  Eric  Biodaskalli,  i.  3oi10 — is  in 
command  with  his  brother,  Thorkel  Dydril,  on  the  Crane  in 
the  battle  of  Svold,  3540,3 

JULIAN  the  Apostate,  Eastern  Emperor,  a.d.  361-363,  ii.  i231 

JUTE-FOLK,  Jutes  (J6tar),  i.  5226  156^  28  iii.  3810  136^  (cf. 
Jute-  in  Jute-lord,  ii.  314^  323^). 

KALF  (Kalfr),  see  also  Calf. 

KALF,  son  of  Arnfinn  Arnmodson,  stationed  beside  his  uncle 
Kalf  Arnison  at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  ii.  43i25.29 

KALF,  son  of  Ami  Arnmodson,  ii.  i9818 — a  much  honoured 
henchman  of  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  i98.22.24- — obtains  in 
marriage  through  the  King's  power  Sigrid,  d.  of  Thorir, 
the  wealthy  widow  of  Olvir  of  Eggja,  19805-1993 — is  made 
a  landed-man  by  the  King  and  appointed  administrator  of 
Upper  Thrandheim,  1994.7- — renders  his  brother  Thorberg 
prompt  aid  against  K.  Olaf  in  the  affair  of  Stein  Skaptison,  and 
brings  about  terms  of  peace  for  both,  283^-286^ — intercedes 
on  behalf  of  his  stepson,  Thorir  Olvirson,  341,3  34318.30 — 
celebrated  in  song  by  Biarni,  son  of  Goldbrow,  36i10.os— his 
counsel  to  Olaf  Haraldson  to  fight  Earl  Hakon  Ericson  over- 
ruled, 36132-363^ — abandons  Olaf  Haraldson  and  goes  over 
to  Earl  Hakon,  36313.1(J37220.25 — goes  to  Thrandheim  and  by 
the  insistence  of  his  wife  becomes  Earl  Hakon's  liegeman, 
374"375n — goes  to  meet  K.Knutin  England,  and,  on  Knut's 
promising  to  make  him  an  earl  of  Norway,  he  engages  to 
raise  a  general  revolt  against  K.  Olaf,  37512-37625  38033-3813 
— proposes  in  vain  that  Harek  of  Thiotta  should  take  the 
chief  command  of  the  army  levied  against  K.  Olaf,  4207.15 — 
assumes  the  chief  command  at  Sticklestead,  421.23-4233— his 
disposition  of  the  forces,  42  36.19 — his  harangue  to  the  peasant 
army,  42407-42  5U — altercation  between  him  and  K.  Olaf  on  the 


kal — kar]  Index  I  117 

field  of  battle,  426^-427,.— gives  Olaf  one  of  his  death-wounds, 
433^— repulses  Day's  brunt,  434i2-i«— his  dealings  with  his 
wounded  brothers,  43503-4365— settles  down  in  quiet  under 
King  Svein  Alfiva's  son,  4533;1S— finds  it  soon  out  what  a 
mistake  he  had  made  in  listening  to  K.  Knut's  persuasions, 
all  of  whose  promises  were  broken,  462is-29 — refuses  to  lend 
armed  aid  to  Svein  Alfiva's  son,  463^-464,3— his  reply  to  K. 
Knut's  request  for  a  supply  of  axes,  4664-15 — leaves  Norway 
for  Garthrealm  and  places  himself  at  the  service  of  Magnus 
Olafson,  466^-467.^— strained  relations  with  K.  Magnus,  iii. 
183,-1920 — forced  by  the  King  to  go  to  Sticklestead  and  to  con- 
fess where  he  stood  at  K.  Olaf 's  fall,  he  swiftly  takes  his  de- 
parture from  Norway  and  goes  on  a  viking  raid  in  the  west, 
1903-2 113 — peace  made  between  himand  K.  Harald  Hardredy, 
whose  service  he  enters,  1  i918-i 2 o10— betrayed  by  Harald, 
he  falls  in  battle  in  the  island  of  Fion  in  Denmark,  i2013- 

I2I7 

KALF  SCURVY  (K.  skurfa),  a  viking  defeated  and  slain  by 
Turf-Einar,  Earl  of  Orkney,  i.  123^3 

KAR  (Karr)  of  Griting,  offended  at  K.  Hakon  the  Good's 
reluctance  to  join  in  the  customs  of  heathen  feasts,  i.  i6918 
— joins  seven  other  lords  of  Thrandheim  to  force  him  to  it, 
i7o15.1G— threatened  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  with  being  sacrificed 
to  his  own  heathen  gods,  3194.7 

KARI  OF  BERDLA  (BerSlu-Kari),  joins  Earl  Rognvald  after 
the  burning  of  King  Vemund  of  Firthfolk,  and  goes  north  to 
Thrandheim  and  becomes  King  Harald  Hairfair's  man,  i. 
io3o3.30 

KARrKINGSBROTHER,  son  of  Sigrid,  the  d.  of  Saxi  in 
Wick,  and  brother  to  K.  Olaf,  son  of  Magnus  Barefoot, 
married  Borghild,  d.  of  Day  Eilifson  ;  their  sons,  Sigurd  of 
Eastort  and  Day,  iii.  336.^.04 

KARK,  a  thrall  of  Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir,  i.  293.^.^  (born  on  the 
same  day  as  the  Earl,  29625.27),  the  sole  attendant  on  the 
Earl  in  his  last  days,  and  his  murderer,  293^-294,  296.3,- 
297-2i — beheaded  by  Olaf  Tryggvison's  order,  29700.03 — his 
head  stoned  on  Nidholm,  29700-2987 

KARL,  a  goodman  of  Halland,  friend  of  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson, 
at  whose  request  he  helps  Vandrad,  i.e.  K.  Svein  Wolfson  of 
Denmark,  to  save  his  life  after  the  battle  of  Niz,  iii.  138,.- 140,, 


n8  Index  I  [kar — ket 

— is  sent  for  by  King  Svein,  who  rewards  him  royally  for  his 
avail,  i4216-i4310 
KARL,  King  of  Sweden,  ob.   1167,  son  of  Sorkvir,  marries 
Kristin,  the  daughter  of  Stig  Whiteleather  by  Margret  daughter 
of  Knut  the  Lord  and  sister  of  Waldimar  I.  of  Denmark,  iii. 

2  71 

KARL  O'  MERE  (Karl  maerski),  volunteers  to  King  Olaf 
Haraldson  to  go  to  Faroe  to  gather  in  the  King's  taxes  of  the 
islands,  ii.  3033-3043 — personal  description,  304n.16 — journeys 
to  the  Faroes  and  is  slain  at  the  instigation  of  Thrand  o'  Gate, 
30417-30919 — the  unsatisfactory  result  of  the  blood-suit  after 
him,  30921^6 — that  case  re-opened  later  on,  310^ 

KARL,  the  son  of  Soni  by  Astrid,  d.  of  Ogmund  Ormson,  iii. 
35I3-s — ^arl  in  Gautland,  is  persuaded  by  King  Magnus  the 
Blind  to  attempt  the  conquest  of  Norway,  and  goes  into  the 
Wick,  35o9..i7 — is  met  and  opposed  in  Crookshaw  by  King 
Ingi  and  defeated,  350.23-351! — marries  Brigida,  d.  of  Harald 

Gilli,  37831-3791 

KARLI  of  Longisle  in  Halogaland,  brother  of  Gunstein,  personal 
description  of,  ii.  2373^238^ — his  fellowship  with  Asmund 
Grankelson,  by  whose  recommendation  Karli  becomes  one  of 
King  Olaf's  body-guard,  238^2400-. — goes  on  a  trading  jour- 
ney to  Biarmland  in  even  partnership  with  King  Olaf  Harald- 
son, takes  his  brother  Gunstein  with  him  and  agrees  to  Thorir 
Hound  in  a  ship  of  his  own  going  on  the  trading  journey  with 
him,  2583-260., — his  successful  marketing,  26o3.9 — his  share 
in  the  robbing  of  the  holy  place  of  Jomali,  the  god  of  the 
Perms,  26o10-263l7 — his  homeward  journey  and  dealings  with 
Thorir,  who  slays  Karli  at  Geirsver,  263^-265.53 — Finn  Arni- 
son's  attempt  to  obtain  atonement  for  him,  28814-2ao32 

K  ATRIN,  daughter  of  Knut  the  Lord  and  Ingibiorg,  the  daugh- 
ter of  K.  Harald  Valdemarson  of  Holmgarth,  iii.  27i10 

KETIL  (Ketill),  Provost,  ward  of  Mary-church,  Alaburg,  tells 
Eric  Oddson  that  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  was  buried  at  his 
church,  iii.  367,3 

KETIL  CROOK  (K.  krokr)  [son  of  Earl  Tosti  Godwinson], 
brother  to  Skuli  King's-fosterer,  accompanies  K.  Olaf,  son  of 
Harald  Hardredy,  from  the  west — a  noble  man,  and  dear  to 
the  King — fares  north  into  Halogaland,  where  Olaf  gets  him 
a  good  wedding,  i838.17 


ket — kin]  Index  I  119 

KETIL  THE  HIGH  (K.  hafi),  of  Inner-Thrandheim,  a  fore- 
castle man  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  3539.10 

KETIL  JAMTI  (K.  Jamti),  son  of  Earl  Onund  of  the  Spar- 
biders,  fled  from  King  Eystein  of  the  Uplands  east  over  the 
Keel  and  cleared  woods  there  with  a  large  following,  which 
countryside  was  afterwards  called  Jamtland,  i.  i6219.24  ii. 
2763s — his  grandson  Thorir  Helsing  colonizes  Helsingland, 

276i2-i4 

KETIL  KALF  (K.  kalfr),  of  Ringness,  married  to  a  half-sister 

of  Olaf  the  Holy,  Gunnhild,  d.  of  K.  Sigurd  Sow  and  Asta, 
ii.  24813.27 — their  children,  Sigrid,  wife  of  Eindrid,  son  of 
Einar  Thambarskelfir,  iii.  io610.13  and  Guthorm,  i2  214.16 — 
joins  King  Olaf  Haraldson  against  Earl  Svein  and  Einar 
Thambarskelfir,  ii.  549.10 — partakes  in  the  battle  of  Nesiar 
and  is  handsomely  rewarded  by  Olaf,  647.10 — betrays  the  five 
Upland  kings  who  had  conspired  to  fall  on  King  Olaf,  and 
assists  in  taking  them  by  surprise  at  Ringacre,  io73-io817 

KETIL  of  Rogaland  (K.  rygski),  stationed  in  the  forehold  of 
the  Long-Worm,  i.  35319-20 

KETILBIORN  THE  OLD  (Ketilbjorn  hinn  gamli),  an  Ice- 
landic settler,  grandfather  of  Gizur  the  White,  i.  33427-28 

KI  ART  AN  (Kjartan),  son  of  Olaf  Peacock,  the  son  of  Hoskuld 
and  of  Thorgerd,  the  daughter  of  Egil  Skallagrimson,  i. 
334h-i9 — n^s  swimming  strife  with  Olaf  Tryggvison,  33525- 
3360i— he  and  his  fosterbrother  Bolli  let  themselves  be 
christened  at  the  King's  request,  336^-33 y22 — opposes  Thang- 
brand's  account  of  the  heathen  stubbornness  of  the  Icelanders, 
and  with  other  chiefs  of  Iceland  undertakes  to  bring  about 
the  conversion  of  the  country,  33917-34o12 — kept  with  other 
nobles  of  Iceland  as  hostage,  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  to  ensure 
the  conversion  to  Christianity  of  the  island,  354x7-20 

KIMBI,  of  the  rebels  against  K.  Olaf  the  Holy,  his  and  Thor- 
mod  Coalbrowskald's  dealings  after  the  battle  of  Sticklestead, 

4394-30 
KINGS'    MOTHER  (Konungam6Sir),   a  by-name   given   to 

Gunnhild,  the  widow  of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  after  her  and  her  sons' 

return  to  Norway  on  the  death  of  Hakon  the  Good,  i.  202 7 

KING'S  STEPFATHER,  by-name  given  to  Ami  of  Stodreim 

after  his  marriage  with  Queen  Ingirid,  d.  of  Rognvald,  K. 

Harald  Gilli's  widow,  iii.  37o23 


1 20  Index  I  [kio — knu 

KIOTVI  THE  WEALTHY  (Kjotvi  hinn  auSgi),  King  of  Ag- 
dir,  joined  the  alliance  of  the  Kings  of  Hordland,  Rogaland 
and  Thelmark  against  Harald  Hairfair,  and  fought  against 
him  in  the  battle  of  Hafursfirth,  and  fled  to  a  certain  holm 
where  there  was  vantage  ground  (his  ultimate  fate  is  not 
told),  i.  IIIQ-II2J  8 

KIRIALAX,  i.e.  Alexis  I.,  Comnenus,  Eastern  Emperor, 
1081-1 118,  his  and  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  mutual  festive 
entertainments,  iii.  25912-26i23 — provides  K.  Sigurd  with 
horses  and  guide  for  his  overland  journey  to  the  north  and 
receives  in  exchange  all  his  ships,  26i2(j.28 — has  K.  Olaf's  sword 
Hneitir  placed  in  Olaf's  Church  in  Micklegarth,  42Q14.20 — 
his  campaign  against  the  Vlakmen  and  battle  of  Petzina  won 
by  Varangian  valour,  429^-43 1 

KIRIALAX,  i.e.  Alexis  II.,  Comnenus,  Eastern  Emperor, 
1 180-1 183,  son  of  Kaiser  Manuel  (i.e.  Manuel  I.,  Comnenus) 
in  Micklegarth  and  'a  daughter  of  Roger,  King  of  Sicily' 
[mistake;  his  mother  was  Maria,  daughter  of  Raymund  of 
Poitou,  Prince  of  Antioch],  iii.  256n 

KISPING,  (an  English?  or  Scotch?)  foot-page  of  Queen  Gunn- 
hild,  supposed  to  have  given  K.  Hakon  the  Good  his  death- 
wound  in  the  battle  of  Fitiar,  i.  i872.8 

KLACK-HARALD,  King  of  Jutland,  father  of  Thorny  the 
grandmother  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  of  Thyri  Denmark's 
Weal,  i.  837.9 

KL^ENG  (Klsengr),  son  of  Brusi,  ii.  5322.23 

KLERK  (Klerkr),  an  Esthonian  who  buys  for  slaves  Olaf 
Tryggvison  and  Thorgils  Thorolfson,  paying  a  goodly  he- 
goat  for  them,  i.  2  2914.15 

KLERKON,  an  Esthonian,  buys  Olaf  Tryggvison  for  slave, 
together  with  Thorolf,  his  mother's  fosterfather,  and  Thorolf  s 
son  Thorgils,  i.  2  2  95.13 — sells  Olaf  and  Thorgils  to  Klerk  for  a 
good  he-goat,  22914.15 — killed  in  Holmgarth  by  Olaf  Tryggvi- 
son, 23o12.20 

KLYPP  (Klyppr),  a  'hersir,'  son  of  Thord,  the  son  of  Horda- 
Kari,  i.  2i520.21  3oo24.2f) — revenges  on  K.  Sigurd  Slaver  the  dis- 
honour done  to  his  wife  and  slays  him  at  Alrekstead,  2i519.24 
30-2i614  303^  and  is  himself  slain  on  the  spot,  2i612.14 

KNUT  (Knutr)  [known  as  K.  Danaast,  Danes'  Darling],  son 
of  K.  Gorm  the  Old,  and  father  to  Gold-Harald,  i.  2i712.14 


KNU] 


Index  I  121 


KNUT,  Earl,  son  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosa  and  Brigida,  daughter  of 
King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3795 

KNUT,  son  of  Harald  Kesia  and  Ragnhild,  daughter  of  King 
Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  283^ 

KNUT,  son  of  Knut  the  Old.    See  Hordaknut. 

KNUT  LORD  (K.  lavarSr),  tii3i,  son  of  Eric  the  Good  King 
of  Denmark,  married  to  Ingibiorg,  d.  of  K.  Harald  Valdimar- 
son  of  Novgorod,  iii.  2  7 1 4..— their  children,  2  7 1 7.10— his  daugh- 
ter Margret  married  to  Stig  Whiteleather,  2  7 110— another 
daughter,  Kristin,  married  to  K.  Magnus  the  Blind,  31425-2? 

KNUT,  son  of  Svein  of  Jadar,  married  to  Rimhild;  their  son, 

Svein,  iii.  299i<s-tt  .        ,      ^,  ,  .      . 

KNUT  THE  MIGHTY,  or  the  Rich,  the  Old,  or  the  Ancient 
(Kniitr  hinn  riki),  King  of  Denmark  1014-1035,  England 
1014,  1016-1035,  and  Norway  1028-1035,  son  of  Svein  Twi- 
beard  and  Gunnhild,  d.  of  Burislaf,  King  of  the  Wends,  i. 
27  r17  (ii.  2103  25o10.14) — summons  his  brother-in-law,  Earl  Eric 
of  Norway,  "to  join  him  in  an  expedition  against  England,  ii. 
25„7-261  cf.  iii.  i592t5-i6o(; — he  wins  London,  ii.  2622.24 — comes 
to  England  the  year  that  Ethelred  died,  and  married  Emma, 
his  widow;  their  children,  27u.14 — had  many  battles  with  the 
sons  of  Ethelred,  2  78.u— made  peace  with  Edmund  Ironside 
that  each  should  have  one  half  of  England  for  dominion — 
drives,  after  the  murder  of  Edmund,  all  the  sons  of  Ethelred 
out  of  the  land,  2  715.24  cf.  iii.  S221.23 — repels  an  invasion  from 
Normandy  by  the  sons  of  Ethelred  in  company  with  Olaf 
Haraldson,  2  8.,7-2  91 — receives  honourably  and  advances  his 
nephew,  Earl  Hakon  of  Norway,  333.n— his  enmity  to  Olaf 
Haraldson  urged  by  K.  Sigurd  Syr  on  the  latter  as  of  formidable 
import,  4o.,22i; — resides  mostly  in  England  and  rules  Denmark 
by  means  of  chieftains  (viceroys),  i6726.30  (i888  25#25°io:i2  iu- 
3°m-\;) — receives  kindly,  and  speeds  with  good  gifts  on  de- 
parture, Einar  Thambarskelfir,  235-.,}— having  conquered 
England  after  many  battles  and  secured  his  position  there,  he 
turns  his  attention  to  Norway,  claiming  as  his  own  the  whole 
of  it,  though  his  nephew  Hakon  Ericson  considered  he  had  a 
just  title  to  some  of  it,  25 12.12— abstained  from  giving  effect 
to  his  claim  while  King  Olaf's  popularity  and  power  were  in 
the  ascendant,  25 i12.1H— lavished  gifts  on  disaffected  fugitives 
from  Norway,  and  thus  won  much  popularity  in  that  kingdom, 


122  Index  I  [knu 

25iis"2526 — his  lordliness  and  wealth  much  famed,  25i26.30 — 
a  masterful  but  just  ruler,  2522.5 — receives  assurances  from 
Norwegian  fugitives  to  the  effect  that  the  Norwegians  were 
ready  to  transfer  their  allegiance  to  him,  2  526.lV — sends  an 
ambassade  to  Norway  to  propose  to  King  Olaf  the  alternative 
of  giving  up  his  kingship  altogether  or  to  hold  Norway  as  fief 
of  the  English  King,  252^-253^, — at  King  Olaf's  peremptory 
refusal,  the  ambassade  returns  to  England,  and  gives  K.  Knut 
a  report  of  its  journey,  253^-2545  25513.18 — his  generous  dis- 
position towards  those  who  submitted  to  him,  254^-2553 — 
avows  determined  enmity  to  Olaf,  255^ — gives  lordly  wel- 
come to  the  sons  of  Erling,  2  5525.32 — alliance,  offensive  and 
defensive,  against  him  between  the  Kings  of  Norway  and 
Sweden,  256-257,; — goes  to  Denmark  and  makes  a  futile  at- 
tempt to  undo  the  Swedish  alliance  with  Olaf  of  Norway, 
2 5  7g-3o — §oes  Dack  to  England,  leaving  Horda-Knut  regent  in 
Denmark,  26710.21 — defection  to  him  openly  threatened  by 
the  sons  of  Ami  to  bring  pressure  to  bear  on  Olaf  of  Norway 
in  the  affair  of  Stein,  285^3 — receives  in  his  service  Stein 
Skaptison,  28622.25 — gives  welcome  to  Thorir  Hound,  29i5.28 
— is  joined  by  Erling  Skialgson  and  his  sons,  3ii2-7  335i7i9 — 
his  realm  of  Denmark  invaded  by  the  allies,  Kings  Olaf  of 
Norway  and  Onuhd  of  Sweden,  3io8-3ii26  3123-313^ — hear- 
ing this,  King  Knut  gathers  a  war-host  in  England,  second  in 
command  of  which  he  placed  Earl  Hakon,  313212s — Knut's 
Dragon  and  great  muster  of  warships,  3i513.24 — he  brings  his 
whole  fleet  safe  to  Limfirth  in  Denmark,  3i69.13 — his  way  of 
dealing  with  his  brother-in-law  Earl  Wolf,  whom  he  causes  to 
be  murdered  in  the  church  of  St.  Lucius  in  Roiswell,  for 
having,  in  secret  concert  with  Queen  Emma,  had  elected  King 
of  Denmark  his  son  Hordaknut,  whom  he  promptly  deposes, 
3i616-3i9lG  3 2  520-3 2 69  ir-32715— on  his  coming  to  Denmark 
his  people  renounce  allegiance  to  the  Kings  of  Norway  and 
Sweden,  319^-3204 — his  fight  with  the  allies  off  the  Holy 
River,  321-323.3,5 — his  spies  keep  watch  on  the  movements  of 
the  allies,   while  he  himself  returns  to   Denmark,   32519.31 
3 2  724-25  28-30 — m  atonement  for  the  murder  of  Earl  Wolf  he 
endows  richly  St.  Lucius'  church,  32716.23 — his  far-reaching 
bribery  of  K.  Olaf's  subjects,  3293,^  335i7"3366  3422o"343i7 
3729 — Knut's  attitude  towards  Harek  of  Thiotta  and  Thorir 


knu — kol]  Index  I  123 

Hound,  33130-33204  349J.-,— Knut  and  Sigvat  the  Skald,  3i329- 
3i5io  33324-33431  i"-  i3u-i  ~ Olaf  deserted  by  Sweden,  having 
to  abandon  his  ships  and  retreat  to  Norway,  Knut  goes  into 
winter  quarters,  33510-i6 — Knut  prepares  for  invading  Norway, 
345i9-M  346"347s — Knut  in  Norway,  Hakon  Ericson  appointed 
Earl,'  Hordaknut  made  King  of  Denmark,  etc.,  348-35303  cf. 
372n-i5 — t^ie  cmefs  of  Norway  hoodwinked  by  his  promises, 
3729-n — confers  an  earldom  in  Denmark  on  Harald,  son  of 
Thorkel  the  High,  375l7.19 — promises  an  earldom  to  Kalf 
Arnison  for  undertaking  to  organize  a  rising  in  Norway  should 
Olaf  Haraldson  attempt  a  reconquest  of  it,  375i2~37623 — Knut 
breaks  his  promises  to  Einar  Thambarskelfir,  388^-389^ 
45200.04 — chieftains  of  Norway  bound  by  oath  to  Knut  to  take 
the  life  of  K.  Olaf,  38907-390^  420o4.31— bishop  Sigurd's  way 
of  pleading  the  cause  of  Knut  in  Norway,  417^-4190,3  454i-4 
— Knut  appoints  his  son  Svein  King  of  Norway,  449^-4503 — 
Knut's  popularity  speedily  dwindles  in  Norway,  461 21-462.29 — 
Kalf  Arnison  refuses  Knut's  request  for  a  supply  of  axes,4667.15 
— Knut  dies,  is  buried  at  Winchester,  hi.  923.30 — family  rela- 
tions, 255.24  293.15 

KNUT  THE  HOLY,  King  of  Denmark,  1080-1086,  son  of 
Svein  Wolfson,  King  of  Denmark,  iii.  19403.04— friendship 
with  Olaf  the  Quiet — meets  him  in  the  Elf — suggests  an 
avenging  expedition  to  England,  which  Olaf  declines  to  lead, 
though  he  supplies  sixty  ships  well  fitted  out,  197^7-19803 — 
how  the  expedition  came  to  nought,  19807-1990 

KNUTLINGS  or  Knytlings,  the  kinsmen  of  Knut  the  Mighty, 
their  unpopularity  in  Norway,  ii.  45Iioio  46331-464-2 

KODRAN  (KoSran),  son  of  Gudmund  Eyolfson  the  Mighty  of 
Maddermead,  iii.  i533.8 

KOL,  son  of  Hall  of  the  Side  (Kollr  SiSu-Halls  son),  i.  65.6 

KOLBEIN  (Kolbeinn),  a  young  man  whose  tongue  Thora,  the 
mother  of  King  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  had  had  cut  out,  mir- 
aculously healed  by  King  Olaf  the  Holy,  iii.  302^,-303,; 

KOLBEIN  HEAP  (K.  hriiga),  an  Orkney  noble,  and  follower 
of  Eystein,  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  368., 

KOLBEIN  THE  STRONG  (K.  sterki),  one  of  King  Olaf 
Haraldson's  following;  description  of  his  arrayal,  ii.  2o6(i.1? — 
his  iconoclastic  service  in  the  King's  missionary  campaign 
through  Gudbrundsdale,  20714.19  30-2o80 


1 24  Index  I  [kol — kri 

KOLBEIN,  son  of  Thord  Frey's  priest,  an  Icelander  converted 
to  Christianity  in  Nidoyce  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  33421 — kept 
a  hostage  with  other  Icelanders  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  to  ensure 
the  conversion  to  Christianity  of  Iceland,  354-17-20 

KOLBEIN  THORLIOTSON  of  Batald,  lost  from  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon's  ship,  iii.  35  57 

KOLBEIN  THE  WOODE  (K.  hinn  6Bi),  a  partisan  of  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad,  seized  by  Jon,  son  of  Hallkel  Hunch,  iii. 

4°  2  23-21; 
KOLBIORN  (Kolbjorn),  son  of  Ami  Arnmodson,  11.  i9818;19 

KOLBIORN  KLAKK  (K.  klakki),  a  chieftain  of  the  Wick, 
iii.  2 1422 — speech  at  aThing  summoned  by  Sigurd  Wool-string, 
21 85-10  19-25  2I9r-2o — inyites  King  Magnus  Barefoot  to  a  feast, 
2  2o,.,..,3— manages  as  royal  property  the  lands  K.  Magnus 
forced  Sveinki  Steinarson  to  give  up,  2  2o94.29 

KOLBIORN  THE  MARSHAL  (K.  stallari),  one  of  Olaf 
Tryggvison's  captains  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35230 — 
jumps  overboard,  at  the  same  time  as  Olaf  Tryggvison,  from 
the    Long-Worm,   is  caught    and   pardoned  by   Earl   Eric, 

3743-0  14-31 

KOLLI,  an  Icelandic  poet,  celebrates  in  song  the  battles  at 
Mouth,  iii.  35o3.12 — and  at  Crookshaw,  35i12.20 

KONOFOGOR  (Conochbhar),  an  Irish  King,  gives  a  severe 
defeat  to  Earl  Einar  Sigurdson  of  Orkney  in  Ulfreksfirth  in 

Ireland,  ii.  13712-23  I74is-22 
KORMAK  (K6rmakr),  son  of  Ogmund,  Icel.  poet,  i.  i667lV 
KRAKI,  al.  Rolf  Kraki,  see  below,  p.  173,  his  scattering  of 

gold  over  Fyris-mead  a  frequent  element  of  kennings,  iii. 

964.5— cf.  note,  p.  497. 
KRISTIN,  daughter  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosa  by  Brigida,  daughter 

of  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3799 
KRISTIN,  daughter  of  Ingi  (the  elder)  King  of  Sweden,  m.  to 

Harald  (Mstislav),  son  of  Valdemar,  Grand  Prince  of  Kief, 

their  daughter  Malmfridwhom  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  married, 

iii.  2  7i2 
KRISTIN,  daughter  of  Knut  the  Lord  and  Ingibiorg,  d.  of 

K.  Harald  Valdemarson  of  Holmgarth,  iii.  27 19 — the  wife 

of  King  Magnus  the  Blind,  31426-29 
KRISTIN,  called  'King's-daughter,'d.  of  King  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer  and  Queen   Malmfrid,  married  to  Erling  Askew,  iii. 


kri — lei]  Index  I  1 25 

37Ii3-i4 — gives  a  good  welcome  to  Gregory  Dayson  at  Studla, 
39i8.16 — is  minded  to  leave  Oslo,  but  persuaded  by  King 
Ingi  to  remain  there,  4232.1S — lays  out  the  body  of  King  Ingi, 
42  73.4 — sends  word  to  her  husband,  Erling  Askew,  not  to  trust 
King  Hakon  and  his  men,  42  720.25 — goes  to  Denmark  and 
prepares  peace  between  her  husband  and  King  Valdemar, 
47i0(3-4725 — leaves  Norway  with  a  paramour,  Grim  Rake, 
lives  and  has  children  with  him  in  Constantinople,  474sku — 
said  to  have  had  a  son,  Harald,  with  K.  Sigurd  Mouth,  son 
of  Harald,  477^-478., 

KRISTIN,  daughter  of  Stig  Whiteleather  by  Margret,  the 
daughter  of  Knut  Lord  and  sister  to  Valdemar  I.  of  Den- 
mark, iii.  27 in — married  to  Karl,  the  son  of  Sorkvir,  King  of 
Sweden,  27iu.12 

KRISTROD,  brother  to  King  Harald  Gilli  by  the  same  mother, 
iii.  3i527 — fights  without  a  byrny  in  the  battle  at  Fyrileif, 
where  he  is  slain  by  a  bonder,  3i6.,.,..,4  3i74.is 

KYRPING-WORM  (Kyrpinga-Ormfj/son  of  Svein  Sveinson 
and  Ragna,  whose  parents  were  Earl  Worm  Eilifson  and 
Sigrid,  d.  of  Earl  Finn  Arnison;  Kyrp. -Worm's  wife:  Ragn- 
hild,  d.  of  Sveinki,  son  of  Steinar;  their  son  Erling  Askew,  iii. 
37I3-o — he  gives  fostering  to  Magnus,  the  fourth  son  of 
Harald  Gilli,  36822.23 

LATINS  (Latinumenn),  men  of  Romance  nationalities,  iii.  6227 

LAW-BERSI  (Log-Bersi),  the  father  of  Gyrd,  whose  son 
Amundi  was  the  fosterer  of  King  Ingi,  son  of  King  Harald 
Gilli,  iii.  34715  17 

LAWMAN  (LogmaSr),  son  of  Gudrod,  King  of  the  South  Isles, 
or  Sodor,  charged  with  the  defence  of  the  northern  group  of 
the  islands,  flees  from  one  place  to  another  before  King 
Magnus  Barefoot,  but  is  finally  taken  and  put  in  irons,  iii. 

LAXE-PAUL  (Laxa-Pall),  father  of  Einar,  iii.  358.^  389^ 
LEIF  THE  LUCKY  (Leifr  hinn  heppni),  son  of  Eric  the  Red, 
christened  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  34i16.20 — sent  to  Greenland 
accompanied  by  a  priest  to  christen  the  country,  in  which 
journey  he  saved  a  shipwrecked  crew,  and  discovered  Vine- 
land  the  Good  (North-America),  3553.13 — to  him  King  Olaf 
Haraldson  wanted  to  send  his  kinsman,  the  blinded  King 
Rcerek,  so  as  safely  to  get  rid  of  him,  ii.  1343032 


126  Index  I  [lei — lod 

LEIF  (Leifr),  son  of  Ozur,  of  Faroe,  summoned  by  King  Olaf 
Haraldson,  goes  to  Norway  with  many  representatives  of  the 
islanders;  becomes  a  member  of  King  Olaf  Haraldson's 
household  and  bodyguard,  and  agrees  to  the  subjection  of 
the  islands  to  Norwegian  rule,  ii.  246^-247^ — is  summoned 
again  to  Norway  by  King  Olaf,  but,  in  concert  with  other 
chiefs  of  Faroe,  he  leaves  the  mission  to  Thoralf  of  Dimon, 
2694.18 — receives  Karl  o'  Mere  at  King  Olaf's  request,  and 
entertains  him  through  the  winter,  gathering  in  for  him  the 
taxes  of  the  Southern  Faroes,  304.^-30533— his  dealings  with 
Thrand  o'  Gate  over  the  bad  money  the  latter  wanted  to  palm 
off  on  Karl  o'  Mere  as  payment  of  the  King's  taxes,  306-308 
— Thrand's  people  having  slain  Karl  o'  Mere  while  Leif 
was  temporarily  absent,  he  takes  up  the  bloodsuit,  and, 
refusing  settlement  by  weregild,  outlaws  the  perpetrators, 

3°9i-o3 
LESIAR  (the  folk  of)  (Lsesir),  inhabitants  of  part  of  the  upper 

reaches  of  Gudbrand's  dale,  ii.  20418 

LESIARS  (Lsesir),  the  Liachs  (Poles),  iii.  59r 

LEWIS,  son  of  Thorfinn  Skull-cleaver,  see  Hlodver. 

LEYFI,  a  sea-king  of  fame,  i.  376u 

LIOT  (Lj6tr),  son  of  Thorfinn  Skull-cleaver,  Earl  of  Orkney, 
by  Grelad,  daughter  of  Dungad,  Earl  of  Caithness,  i.  24i25 
ii.  1683.7-1692 

LODBROK'S~SONS  (LoSbrdkar  synir),  the  sons  of  Ragnar 
Lodbrok,  see  Ragnar  Lodbrok. 

LODIN  (Lo^inn),  '  a  wealthy  man  of  the  Wick  and  of  good 
kin,'  finds,  in  a  merchant  journey  to  Estland,  Astrid,  the 
mother  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  in  a  slave-market,  buys  her  (at 
her  request),  brings  her  home  to  Norway  and  marries  her; 
their  children,  i.  3oo7-3oi0 — aids  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  christen- 
ing the  Wick,  302^-3032 

LODIN,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli  and  Astrid,  daughter 
of  King  Tryggvi  Olafson,  ii.  24,0 

LODIN  SUP-PROUD  (L.  sauppruSr),  of  Linestead,  falls  in 
the  battle  at  Holm-the-Gray,  iii.  362^ — his  body  brought  to 
Tunsberg,  36735 

LODIN  of  Vigg  (L.  af  Viggjum),  a  supporter  of  Olaf  Harald- 
son in  his  strife  for  the  kingdom  of  Norway,  ii.  481(>l7 — his 
son,  Sigurd  Wool-String,  iii.  2io9.n 


lod — mag]  Index  I  1 27 

LODIN  VIGG-SKULL  (Lodinn  Viggjar-Skalli),  see  Lodin  of 

Vigg. 

LODVER,  son  of  Thorfinn  Skull-cleaver,  see  Hlodver. 
LODVIR   THE    LONG   (HloBvir   langi),   from   Saltwick  in 
Halogaland,  a  forecastle  man  on  board  the  Long- Worm,  i. 

353s 

LOFT  (Loptr),  one  of  the  names  of  Loki,  his  friend  =  Odin,  i. 
2i72 

LOGI,  son  of  Frosty,  lord  of  the  Finns,  i.  33^ 

LOPT,  Priest,  son  of  Saemund,  staying  at  Kings'  Rock  with  his 
son  Jon  when  the  wonders  there  befell,  iii.  325^,, — goes  to 
Biorgvin  with  all  his  belongings,  32  613.15 

LOTHAIRE  (Lozarius),  Duke  of  Saxony,  1106,  afterwards 
Roman  Emperor,  the  second  of  the  name,  1125-1137,  wel- 
comes and  treats  most  hospitably  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  iii. 

2629.u 

LUCIUS  (Saint),  21st  Bishop  of  Rome  (25  Sept.  a.d.  252 — 
4th  or  5th  March,  253),  patron  saint  of  the  church  of  Rois- 
well  (Roiskelda),  in  Sealand,  ii.  32 7(. 

MAD  DAD  (MaddaSr),  the  father  of  Earl  Harald,  who  was  cap- 
tured by  King  Eystein  at  Thurso,  iii.  37428 

MAGNI,  Bishop  of  Biorgvin,  intercedes  with  King  Sigurd 
Jerusalem-farer  on  behalf  of  Sigurd  Hranison,  iii.  27616.19 — 
remonstrates  with  the  King  against  marrying  Cecilia,  whilst 
Queen  Malmfrid  was  still  alive,  3o79.26 — goes  home  happy  in 
mind  because  he  has  done  a  sacred  duty,  2>0^\  u 

MAGNUS  BAREFOOT  (M.  berfcettr),  King  of  Norway,  1093- 
1103,  son  of  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet  and  Thora,  d.  of  Joan,  iii. 
x95*2-6 — also  called  Bareleg  (berbeinn),  or  the  High  (havi),  or 
Stour-whiles-Magnus  (Styrjaldar-Magnus),  23320.22— married 
to  Margaret  Frithpoll,  d.  of  Ingi,  K.  of  Sweden,  23219.21  2333.,; 
28421.22 — their  daughter  Ragnhild  m.  to  Harald  Kesia, "283^5 
354iM2 — nis  natural  sons,  Eystein,  Olaf,  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer,  Harald  Gilli,  233s.u  295,,,.^— and  Sigurd  Slembi-Dea- 
con,  33617.20  3377.?  365&-7 — taken  to  king  over  all  Norway 
after  the  death  of  his  father,  205^— strained  relations  between 
him  and  K.  Hakon  Magnusson,  his  cousin,  2o618-20723 — 
his  warfare  in  Halland,  burning  of  Viskdale,  return  with  much 
booty,  2o813.27 — he  punishes  Steig-Thorir  and  Egil  for  raising 
up  a  rebellion  against  him  by  having  both  hanged  in  Wamb- 


1 28  Index  I  [mag 

holme,  2092-2i313 — stamps  out  treason  with  ruthless  punish- 
ments, 2I316.28 — maintains  his  power  with  great  vigour,  2i43.8 
— K.Magnus  and  Sveinki  Steinarson,  2i410-2  2i9 — K.  Magnus' 
expedition  to  the  West:  Orkney,  22i12.19 — South-Isles,  22i19- 
2  2  212 — Holy  Isle,  Islay,  Cantyre,  Man,  2  2  215-2  2323 — Angle- 
sea,  2  2326-2  2429 — peace  with  Malcolm,  K.  of  Scotland,  2  2429- 
225i2 — the  whole  of  Sodor  incorporated  in  the  dominion  of 
Norway,  2  2  515.19— -gets  to  his  son  Sigurd  for  wife  Biadmynia, 
d.  of  Myrkiartan,  K.  of  Connaught,  2  2519.22 — return  to  Norway, 
22523.24 — strife  with    Ingi,    K.    of   Sweden :    occupation    of 
Kvaldins-isle,  resulting  in  disaster,  night  attack  at  Foxern, 
battle  of  Foxern,  2263-2323 — peace  and  family  alliance  be- 
tween Magnus  and  K.  Ingi  of  Sweden,   2326.21  2333.,. — his 
height  marked  on  the  stone  wall  of  Mary's  Church  in  Nidoyce, 
23393-3-> — l°ve  songs  to  tne  Kaisar's  daughter  attributed  to 
him,   234 — his  dealings  with  Skopti  Ogmundson  and  his 
sons,  235-237^ — his  second  expedition  to  the  West  and  fall 
in  Ireland,  23823-242  247,3  24^i4-]5  24 — personal  description, 
and  relations  to  Vidkunn  Jonson,  243 
MAGNUS  THE  BLIND,  King  of  Norway,  11 30-1 135,  son  of 
King  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  and  his  concubine   Borghild, 
daughter  of  Olaf  o' Dale,  iii.  27820.25 — married  to  Kristin,  d. 
of  Knut  Lord,  3i425.27 — sent  for  fostering  into  Halogaland 
to  Vidkunn,  son  of  Jon,  27825.29 — Harald  Gilli  bound  by 
treaty  not  to  claim  the  kingdom  while  Magnus  lives,  2964.7 — 
his  wager  with  Harald  Gilli,  29710-2998 — being  in  Oslo  on  his 
father's  death  he  takes  to  himself  all  the  king's  treasures, 
3I0i2-i4 — taken  to  king  at  Oslo;  his  description  and  character, 
3 J  3(5-io — agrees  to  share  the  land  with  Harald  Gilli,  3i48.13 — 
retains  to  himself  the  ships,  chattels,  etc.,  of  Sigurd  his  father, 
3I4i3-2i — discards  his  wife  and  sends  her  back  to  Denmark, 
3 :  425-31 — ne  and  Harald  Gilli  always  on  the  point  of  open 
breach,  3153.7 — gathers  a  host  to  drive  Harald  Gilli  from  his 
kingship,  3i58.16 — battle  between  him  and  Harald  at  Fyrileif, 
3 1 531-3 1 724 — becomes  sole  lord  of  the  kingdom,  3 1 82.4- — against 
the  advice  of  his  counsellors  he  leaves  the  Wick  open  to 
Harald's  operations  and  goes  into  winter  quarters  in  Biorgvin, 
3i88.16 — hearing  that  the  Wick  had  rallied  to  the  standard 
of  Harald  he  takes  counsel  with  his  advisers  and,  refusing 
them  all,  abides  Harald  in  Biorgvin,  3i929-32i22— -he  is  de- 


mag] 


Index  I  1 29 


feated,  captured,  maimed  and  deposed,  32i25-32326 — his 
friends  are  searched  for  his  treasure  and  hardly  dealt  with, 
32339-324^ — Magnus  retires  to  a  monastery,  3343.7 — he  is 
taken  out  of  the  monastery  of  Holme  by  Sigurd  Slembi- Deacon, 
34803-3493— goes  into  the  Uplands  and  gets  followers  there, 
349ifr20 — King  In§i  defeats  him  in  the  battle  at  Mouth,  34921- 
350^ — he  flees  to  Gautland  and  so  to  Denmark;  persuades 
Karl  Sonison,  Earl  in  Gautland,  to  invade  Norway,  350^.07 — 
prevails  with  K.  Eric  Everminded  of  Denmark  to  attack  Nor- 
way, himself  joining  in  the  ill-starred  expedition,  35io3-35331 — 
joins  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  in  a  fresh  raid  on  Norway  from 
Denmark,  3S5U.32 — flees  with  Sigurd  to  Halogaland,  wintering 
in  Birch  Isle,  3561.1S — proceeding  south  along  the  coast  from 
Halogaland  he  and  Sigurd  commit  a  series  of  cruel  outrages 
and  go  to  Denmark,  3571S-35910 — leaves  Denmark  with  Sigurd 
on  a  fresh  raid  on  Norway,  and  is  killed  in  the  battle  of 
Holm-the-Gray,  361.^-362^ — his  life,  written  by  Eric  Oddson, 
36514-17 — his  body  taken  by  Thiostolf  Alison  to  Oslo  and 
buried  beside  his  father's,  3670,3.28 

MAGNUS,  son  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosa  and  Brigida,  daughter  of 
King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  379,3 

MAGNUS  EINARSON,  Bishop  of  Skalaholt  in  Iceland,  1134- 
1 148,  well  received  and  honoured  by  Harald  Gilli  on  his  com- 
ing from  Iceland  for  bishop's  consecration,  334^-3353 — his 
conversation  with  the  King  and  Queen  and  their  presents  to 
him,  3354.07 — goes  back  to  Iceland  to  his  chair,  335.^ — has  a 
chalice  made  from  the  beaker,  and  copes  made  from  the  pall 
which  the  King  and  Queen  gave  him,  3361.11 

MAGNUS,  son  of  Earl  Erlend  of  Orkney,  forced  into  his 
service  by  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  2  394.5 — escapes  by  night 
from  the  King's  ship  to  the  court  of  the  King  of  the  Scotch, 

2  39.HJ 

MAGNUS,  King  of  Norway,  ii62-(ii84),  son  of  Erling  Askew 
and  Kristin,  d.  of  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  taken  for  king,  iii. 
436,f43 7 13— goes  with  Erling  into  Denmark  to  meet  King 
Valdimar,  who  undertakes  to  support  Magnus  in  the  kingdom 
of  Norway  on  Denmark's  old  dominion  in  the  Wick  being  re- 
stored to  him  in  return,  437^.-438^ — -leaves  Denmark  and  sails 
out  from  Vendilskagi,  438,3.,^ — with  Erling  his  father  in  the 
battle  of  Ve-isle,  where  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  fell,  443^,-447.. 

VI.  K 


130  Index  I  [mag 

— he  and  Erling  go  with  the  host  north  to  Cheaping  (Nidoyce) 
and  lay  all  the  land  under  them,  Magnus  being  proclaimed 
king  of  all   the  land,   44710-2r — always  kept  in   his   father's 
company;  goes  with  him  to  Biorgvin  and  thence  to  Tunsberg, 
exercising  royal  sway  over  the  Wick,  448.23.2S — the  men  of 
Wick  his  friends,  44910-h — crowned  by  Abp  Eystein,  4630- 
46431 — King  Valdimar  demands  fulfilment  of  the  promises 
given  to  him  in  respect  of  dominion  over  the  Wick,  but  the 
people  refuse  it  utterly,  4653-4670 — pleads  in  vain  with  his 
father  for  the  life  of  Harald,  the  reputed  son  of  King  Sigurd 
and  Kristin  King's-daughter,  478u.15 — K.  Magnus  and  the 
Birchlegs,  47820-48o20  484-486n  (battle  at  Re),  486^-4872— 
much  renowned  for  his  victory  over  the  Birchlegs,  4875-h — 
personal  description,  48i5.7 
MAGNUS   THE   GOOD  (M.  hinn   g&Si),  King  of  Norway, 
1035-1047,  and  of  Denmark,  1042-1047,  natural  son  of  K. 
Olaf  Haraldson  byAlfhildKing's-bondmaid,ii.  235^ — his  only 
child  a  daughter  named  Ragnhild  (baseborn),  iii.  11419-20 — 
baptized  by  the  order  of  Sigvat  the  Skald,  who  stood  gossip  and 
named  the  apparently  dying  child  after  Karla-Magnus  ('Carlus 
Magnus'),  ii.  235^2363  24.28 — soon  a  hopeful  child,  2372.3 — 
taken  by  his  father  to  Holmgarth  when  he  had  to  flee  from 
Norway,  $6g2  29.30 — left  behind  in  Holmgarth  when  his  father 
sets  out  for  the  re-conquest  of  Norway,  38622 — Einar  Tham- 
barskelfir  and   Kalf  Arnison  invite  him  to  assert  his  king- 
ship  over   Norway,   which   invitation    he   accepts  on  their 
becoming  his  liegemen,  Kalf  undertaking  his  fostering,  46619- 
46724  iii.    ion.20 — his   journey   to    Norway,   iii.    i-7n — pro- 
claimed king,  714.23 — straightway  he  gathers  a  host  to  fall  on 
Svein  Alfiva's  son,  who  speedily  fled   to   Denmark,   723-916 
io2-io — ne  1S  confirmed  in  the  kingdom  all  over  the  land, 
919"23 — peace  with  Hordaknut  of  Denmark  to  the  effect  that 
the  realm  of  him  who  should  die  without  male  issue  before 
the  other  should  be  the  survivor's  lawful  inheritance,  io13-i  i14 
— his  stepmother,  Queen  Astrid,  went  with  him  from  Sweden 
to  live  with  him  in  Norway,  n1(H9  i515 — Sigvat  enters  into 
service  with  K.  Magnus,  i421.32  i53.2s — K.  Magnus  enshrines 
his  father  and  institutes  Olaf's  mass,  i6-i74— K.  Magnus  and 
Harek  of  Thiotta,  i7l7-i819 — K.  Magnus  and  Kalf  Arnison, 
i821-2i19 — he  proceeds  with  relentless   severity  against  his 


mag] 


Index  I  131 


father's  enemies,  and  disaffection  becomes  widespread,  2 1  u;- 
2215 — he  relents  through  Sigvat's  'Staves  of  naked  says,' and 
becomes  universally  popular  and  styled  Magnus  the  Good, 
22^-25., — causes  the  law-code  called  'Greygoose'  to  be 
written,"  2433.35 — becomes  King  of  Denmark  in  virtue  of  the 
peace  treaty  with  Hordaknut,  26-28 — Svein  Wolfson,  later 
King  of  Denmark,  becomes  K.  Magnus's  man  and  is  ap- 
pointed by  him  earl  over  Denmark,  29.23-3 r25 — his  suc- 
cessful punitive  expedition  to  Jomsburg,  3i28-336 — his  great 
victory  over  the  Wends  at  Lyrshawheath,  34e-3782 — his  vic" 
torious  dealings  with  his  rebel  earl,  Svein  Wolfson,  339-343 
38-5 1  ls — K.  Magnus'  claim  to  the  kingdom  of  England 
sternly  refused  by  Edward  the  Confessor,  5i22-53i6  cf-  l6o3r 
i6it. — on  hearing  of  the  alliance  of  his  uncle  Harald  Sigurd- 
son  with  Svein  Wolfson  he  prepares  an  armed  expedition  to 
Denmark,  7793.05  7919.32 — ne  breaks  up  their  alliance  and 
makes  peace  with  Harald,  8o16-8313 — gives  the  half  of  Norway 
to  Harald  and  receives  gifts  from  him,  8316-87u — K.  Magnus 
guarded  and  kept  the  keys  of  his  father's  shrine  and  clipped 
the  saint's  nails  and  hair  every  twelve  months,  8723^8 — 
strained  relations  between  nephew  and  uncle,  8730.32  88^- 
9o18-  they  go  a  joint  expedition  to  Denmark  against  Svein 
Wolfson,  8817.18  9o21.27—  K.  Magnus'  death,  9o2S-9i2S — his 
funeral,  92^-93-  21.24  94s.10  95x  97G.r  * 5424-25  2 849.13— personal 
description,  938.14 — on  his  dying  day  he  bequeathed  Den- 
mark to  Svein  Wolfson,  sending  his  brother  Thorir  with  his 
last  will  to  Svein,  9i10.15  cf.  93l7-946— his  building  under- 
takings, io4.n.30 — K.  Magnus'  appointments  in  respect  of 
Einar  Thambarskelfir  adhered  to  by  Harald  Sigurdson,  io63.8 
— -Einar  and  his  son  buried  beside  K.  Magnus,  noM — his 
daughter's  lament  at  being  bereft  of  his  protection,  ri514^ — 
his  banners  come  into  the  possession  of  his  son-in-law,  Earl 
Hakon  Ivarson,  i5oO0.ol 

MAGNUS,  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  taken  to  king  has  his  share  of 
the  realm,  diseased  in  his  feet,  dies,  iii.  368^,-3693 

MAGNUS,  King  of  Norway,  1066-1069,  son  of  King  Harald 
Hardredy  by  Thora,  daughter  of  Thorberg  Arnison,  iii.  96,,, ..,„ 
I4Ii5-w — commands  one  of  Harald's  ships  at  the  battle  of  Niz, 
I4I16-18 — and  in  the  n&nt  of  Vener-water  against  Earl  Hakon 
Ivarson,  1  S220.33— is  made  King  of  Norway  by  his  father  before 


1 32  Index  I  [mag — mar 

he  himself  sets  out  for  England,  i65l7.20 — rules  over  Norway, 
first  by  himself  and  then  jointly  with  King  Olaf  his  brother, 
i834.(5  i873.s — they  make  peace  with  King  Svein  of  Denmark, 
i8710-i888 — Magnus  dies  of  the  ringworm  plague  at  Nidoyce, 
i88,H2 

MAGNUS,  son  of  Harald  Kesia  the  son  of  K.  Eric  the  Good 
of  Denmark  and  Ragnhild,  daughter  of  King  Magnus  Bare- 
foot, iii.  283^ 

MAGNUS,  King  of  Sweden,  1 1 60-1 161,  son  of  Henry  the  Halt 
and  Ingirid,  the  d.  of  Rognvald;  M.  was  the  third  husband  of 
Brigida,  daughter  of  K.  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3783r379i  426o0.31 

MAGNUS  THE  STRONG  (M.  inn  sterki),  son  of  the  Danish 
K.  Nicolas,  the  son  of  Svein  Wolfson  and  Margaret  Frithpoll, 
daughter  of  Ingi  Steinkelson,  whose  former  husband  was 
King  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  284^.^ 

MALCOLM  (Melk61mr)  II.,  King  of  Scotland,  1 005-1034, 
father-in-law  of  Sigurd  the  Thick,  Earl  of  Orkney,  ii.  i6928 

MALCOLM  (Melkolmr)  III.,  King  of  Scotland,  1058-1093, 
made  peace  with  King  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  22481-2258 

MALMFRID,  daughter  of  King  Harald  (Mstislav),  son  of 
Valdemar  of  Holmgarth  (Kief),  marries  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer,  iii.  2  7o.28 — their  daughter  Kristin,  mother  of  K.  Magnus 
Erlingson,  37i13  438., — intercedes  with  her  husband  for 
Sigurd  Hranison,  2  76ir 

MAN-FOLK  (Manverjar),  inhabitants  of  the  Isle  of  Man, 
iii.  2236 

MANI  (Mani),  son  of  Mundilfceri,  a  giant,  i.  1 7 9,5 

MANUEL,  Kaiser,  in  Micklegarth  (1143-1180)  [son  of  Kalo- 
Johannes],  married  to  the  'daughter  of  Roger,  King  of  Sicily,' 
iii.  2  5610  (a  mistake;  his  second  wife  was  Maria,  d.  of  Ray- 
mund  of  Poitou,  Prince  of  Antioch,  cf.  Kirialax). 

MARGARET,  daughter  of  Arni  of  Stodreim  by  Queen  Ingirid 
d.  of  Rognvald,  iii.  37o25 — married  first  to  Biorn  the 
Buck,  37o25.2(J — and  afterwards  to  Simon,  the  son  of  Kari, 

37°26-27 

MARGARET  FRITHPOLL  (M.  friSkolla),  daughter  of  King 
Ingi,  son  of  K.  Steinkel  of  Sweden,  and  wife,  first,  of  King 
Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  23219.21  2333.,, — their  daughter  Ragnhild, 
wife  of  Harald  Kesia,  28314.17 — secondly,  of  Nicolas,  K.  of 
Denmark,  2  8419.24 


mar — mel]  Index  I  133 

MARGARET,  daughter  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  married  to  Jon 
son  of  Hallkel  Hunch,  hi.  379i3-is 

MARGATH,  King  of  Dublin,  1035-1038,  1046-1052,  allows 
Guthorm,  the  son  of  Ketil  Kalf,  '  a  land  of  peace  '  in  Dublin, 
and  has  him  in  great  favour,  iii.  i2  2.23.25— in  a  joint  war-raid 
into  Anglesea  they  come  to  blows  over  the  division  of  their 
booty,  in  which  affray  Margath  falls,  123^-124 

MARGRET,  daughter  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosa  and  Brigida,  daugh- 
ter of  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  37% 

MARGRET,  daughter  of  Knut  the  Lord  and  Ingibiorg,  d.  of 
King  Harald  (Mstislav)  Valdemarson  of  Holmgarth,  married 
to  Stig  Whiteleather,  iii.  2  7i9.10 

MARGRIT,  the  lord  of  corsairs,  marries  one  of  King  William 
of  Sicily's  daughters,  iii.  256s — slain  by  Kaiser  Henry,  256;, 

MARIA,  daughter  of  a  brother  to  Queen  Zoe  who  refuses  to 
consent  to  her  marrying  Harald  the  Hardredy,  iii.  7229"73s — 
is  taken  away  by  Harald  at  night  to  Seawood-sound,  and  sent 
back  with  an  escort  to  Queen  Zoe,  742<r75-2i 

MARIA,  daughter  of  King  Eystein  Magnusson  and  Ingibiorg, 
the  daughter  of  Guthorm  the  son  of  Steig-Thorir,  married  to 
Gudbrand  the  son  of  Shavehew,  iii.  2653  4 — her  son  Olaf  the 

Unlucky,  474rr-iy 

MARIA,  daughter  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  and  wife  of  Simon 
Sheath,  iii.  3799.n — her  son  Nicolas,  4432S-29 

MARK-MEN,  men  of  the  Marklands,  Woodland  men  (Marka 
menn),  the  inhabitants  of  the  Marches  between  Sweden  and 
Norway,  ii.  39507  4:9t  m-  22&n  228k;  48o13 

MARKUS  O'  SHAW,  a  kinsman  of  Earl  Sigurd  Hallwardson  of 
Reyr,  fosters  Sigurd,  the  son  of  K.  Sigurd  Haraldson,  whom 
the  Uplanders  take  for  king,  iii.  4488.u — his  and  his  foster- 
son's  contests  with  Erling  Askew,  455i<f45824— are  botn 
caught  in  the  island  of  Skarpa  and  executed,  45837.31 

MARY,  the  mother  of  Christ,  i.  i662() 

MARY  al.  Maria,  daughter  of  King  Harald  Sigurdson  and 
Queen  Ellisif,  iii.  96.,., — accompanies  Harald  on  his  expedition 
to  England,  165.,.,— "left  in  the  Orkneys,  166- — dies  the  same 
day  and  hour  that  her  father  falls,  183^3 

MATILD  (Mathildr),  Mathildis,  a  Kaiser's  daughter,  iii.  2343 

MEITI,  a  legendary  sea-king  of  fame,  i.  245^  2483, 

MELBRIG3A,  see  Tusk-MelbrigSa. 


134  Index  I  [mer — ner 

MERCURY  (St),  ii.  i231  For  the  legend  referred  to  see  ^Elfric's 
Lives  of  Saints,  ed.  W.  W.  Skeat,  iii.  241-276. 

MERE  (They  of)  (Mserir),  inhabitants  of  the  folkland  of  Mere, 
i.  i64.,v — but  Meres  (in  a  verse),  iii.  4628 

MICHAEL  (Mikjall),  Archangel,  i.  2  7219 

MICHAEL  (Mikjall)  IV.,  Katalactus  (Money-changer),  other- 
wise: the  Paphlagonian,  Eastern  Emperor,  1034-1041,  rules 
over  Greekland  with  Zoe  the  Rich,  iii.  5925  6318.23 

MIMIR,  the  wisest  of  men,  sent  with  Hcenir  as  hostage  from 
the  Asfolk  to  the  Vanir,  i.  i423 — taught  all  good  counsel  to 
Hoenir,  i45.12— beheaded  by  the  Vanir  and  his  head  sent  back 
to  the  Asfolk,  i414.15 — his  head,  embalmed  and  enchanted  by 
Odin,  told  him  many  hidden  things,  i415.19  i816.18 

MORKAR  (Morukari),  Morcere,  Earl,  son  of  Earl  Godwin  by 
his  wife  Gyda,  ii.  32  610.12  iii.  i5521 — comes  down  upon  King 
Harald  Sigurdson  when  lying  in  the  Ouse  with  a  great  host, 
1 6  75.9 — a  battle  ensues  in  which  his  army  is  defeated  and  he 
is  slain,  i67.,3..?4  i68j.17 — (Morcere  was  son  of  yElfgar,  an  Earl 
in  Mercia,  1057;  and  was  Earl  of  Northumberland  1065; 
died  after  1087). 

MULL-FOLK  (mylsk  )>j6ft),  the  inhabitants  of  the  island  of 
Mull,  Scotland,  iii.  2  2  2n 

MUNAN,  son  of  Ali  the  Un-Skauned,  slain  at  Saur-Byes  by 
Gregory  Dayson,  iii.  419^.^ 

MUNAN  OGMUNDSON,  brother  to  the  mother  of  Earl  Karl 
Sonison,  falls  in  the  battle  at  Crookshaw,  iii.  35 10 

MYRKIARTAN  (Myrkjartan),  son  of  Thialfi,  i.e.  Muirkertach, 
son  of  Tirdelvagh,  Irish  king,  1086-1119,  not  of  Connaught, 
as  Snorri  states,  but  of  Munster;  father  of  Biadmynia,  the 
first  wife  of  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  iii.  2  2  519.22 — his  and  K. 
Magnus  Barefoot's  warfare  as  allies  in  Ireland,  2  3910.20- — he 
betrays  K.  Magnus,  239^-242^ 

NANNA,  one  of  the  goddesses,  Balder's  wife,  ii.  i4813 

NARFI  of  Staff,  one  of  eight  lords  of  Thrandheim  who  com- 
bined to  force  Hakon  the  Good  to  join  in  heathen  festivals, 
i.  i7o19 

NARVI,  son  of  Loki,  i.  246,, 

NAUMDALE-FOLK,  Men  of  Naumdale  (Naumdaelir),  i.  i634 
ii.  i9o30  276^  iii.  27425 

NEREID  THE  OLD  (NereiSr  hinn  gamli),  an  Earl  (called 


ner — xic]  Index  I  135 

in  one  recension  of  Landnama  'the  Old  and  the  Miserly;'  in 
Fagrskinna,  io14  'the  Redewise,'  hinn  nrSspaki,  and  a  kins- 
man of  Harald  Hairfair),  ii.  363 

NEREID,  of  the  landed-men  of  King  Magnus  the  Blind,  hanged 
by  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3i910..,4 

NICOLAS  (Nikolas),  son  of  Ami  of  Stodreim  and  Queen  Ingirid, 
d.  of  Rognvald,  iii.  37o.,4 

NICOLAS  BEARD  (N.  skegg),  slain  by  Bergliot  and  his 
brethren,  the  sons  of  Ivar  of  Elda,  iii.  41521-25 

NICOLAS  (Breakespeare),  Cardinal,  afterwards  Pope  Adrian  IV., 
sent  by  the  Pope  into  Norway,  1152,  iii.  37921.24 — his  attitude 
towards  the  sons  of  Harald  Gilli,  Sigurd,  Eystein  and  Ingi, 
379-24-2S — consents  to  the  consecration  of  Jon  Byrgison,  Abp 
of  Thrandheim,  37930-38o4 — his  reforms  and  personal  charac- 
ter gained  immense  popularity  for  him,  38o5.12 — his  election 
as  Pope,  and  fondness  for  the  people  of  Norway,  38o12.23 — 
landed  in  Norway  half  a  month  before  the  latter  Olaf  s  mass, 
i.e.  July  20,  38i6.s 

NICOLAS  MEW  (N.  Masi),  the  father  of  Ragna,  wife  of  King 
Eystein,  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  37821  42  6.,5.26 

NICOLAS,  son  of  the  Danish  King  Nicolas  Sveinson  and  of 
Margaret  Frithpoll,  whose  former  husband  was  King  Magnus 
Barefoot,  iii.  284.73 

NICOLAS  PERIWINKLE  (N.  kiifungr),  son  of  Paul,  the  son 
of  Skopti,  a  landed-man  of  K.  Magnus  Erlingson,  lays  hands 
on  Harald,  who  was  said  to  be  the  son  of  King  Sigurd  Harald- 
son  and  Kristin  King's-daughter — brings  him  to  Biorgvin  and 
hands  him  over  to  Earl  Erling,  who  has  him  beheaded  in 
Northness  by  Biorgvin,  iii.  47726-47817 

NICOLAS,  son  of  Sigurd,  the  son  of  Rani,  by  Skialdvor, 
the  daughter  of  Bryniolf  Camel  and  Thora  Joan's  daughter 
(the  mother  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot),  a  follower  of  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad,  iii.  4077.8 — commands  a  ship  in  Hakon's  fleet 
in  the  battle  of  the  Elf,  4o84 — after  the  battle  he  is  pardoned 
by  King  Ingi,  under  whom  he  served  for  the  rest  of  his  life, 
4I53-6 — 1S  one  °f  ^e  captains  charged  with  the  defence  of 
Biorgvin,  4572U — declinestoputup  for  the  kingdom  of  Norway, 
43 5^i -4363— scatters  the  fleet  of  Markus  o'  Shaw  and  King 
Sigurd  off  Biorgvin,  seizing  their  ships,  458lt!.25 — his  dealings 
with  Markus  and  his  followers,  45825.31 — his  family  connec- 


136  Index  I  [nic — nor 

tions,  wealth  and  influence,  48ic,.18 — of  him  and  Eric  Arnison, 
his  son-in-law,  481^-48200 — surprised  and  slain  by  the  Birch- 
legs,  48224-48314 

NICOLAS,  son  of  Simon  Sheath  and  Maria,  daughter  of  King 
Harald  Gilli,  iii.  3799.12 — taken  from  home  by  Erling  Askew 
and  secured  on  board  his  ship  the  Beechboard,  4432s-3i — slain 
by  Erling's  men  on  board  the  Beechboard,  4464.0  (He  had 
the  same  title  to  the  kingdom  of  Norwayas  Magnus  Erlingson.) 

NICOLAS  SKIALDVORSON,  or  son  of  Skialdvor,  'sister's 
son  to  King  Magnus  Barefoot '  =  Nicolas,  son  of  Sigurd,  the 
son  of  Rani,  q.v. 

NICOLAS,  King  of  Denmark  1103-1134,  son  of  K.  Svein 
Wolfson  of  Denmark,  married  to  Margaret  Frithpoll,  d.  of  K. 
Ingi  Steinkelson  of  Sweden,  the  former  wife  of  K.  Magnus 
Barefoot;  their  sons:  Nicolas  and  Magnus  the  Strong,  iii. 
2^4i9-24 — welcomes  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  at  Heathby, 
262lc.o0 — invokes  K.  Sigurd's  aid  towards  converting  the 
people  of  the  Small-lands  in  Sweden  to  Christianity,  284^- 
2853 — cause  of  K.  Nicolas  giving  up  the  enterprise,  2854.19 

NIORD  THE  WEALTHY  (NjorSr  hinn  auSgi),  one  of  high 
degree  among  the  Vanir,  given  as  hostage  to  the  As-folk,  i. 
i327 — made  by  Odin  a  temple  priest  and  'Dii'  among  the 
As-folk,  i420-2i — was,  while  among  his  tribe,  the  Vanir,  married 
to  his  sister,  i425.26 — abode,  on  coming  to  Sweden,  in  Noa- 
town,  1607 — wedded  Skadi  and  was  deserted  by  her  for  Odin, 
2o.2(5 — ruled  the  Swedes  after  Odin,  and  was  worshipped  by 
the  Swedes  as  the  giver  of  plenty  of  the  year  and  the  wealth- 
hap  of  mankind,  2  214.15 — in  his  day  died  the  more  part  of 
the  Diar,  2  215.16 — he  died  in  his  bed,  marked  himself  unto 
Odin,  and  the  Swedes  bewailed  him  sorely,  2218.20 — his  name 
in  'kennings,'  i7335 18215 18733  2563  33^  3483  ii.  2i10  52n 

NOCKVI  (Nokkvi),  King  of  Raumsdale,  allied  with  King 
Hunthiof  of  Northmere  against  Harald  Hairfair,  when  he 
first  invaded  the  mid-Norway  kingdoms,  fought  against  H. 
at  the  island  of  Solskel,  and  fell,  i.  9933-ico17 

NOKKVI,  son  of  Paul,  one  of  the  warders  of  Biorgvin,  iii.  4572,j 

NORN  (norn,  pi.  nornir),  fairy  dispensers  of  fate,  i.  i2616 

NORTHLANDERS  (NorSlendingar),  the  inhabitants  of  the 
North  Quarter  of  Iceland,  cf.  Saga  Lib.  i.  xxxiii-xxxiv,  ii. 

243i  19 


nor — odi]  Index  I  137 

NORTHMEN  (NorSmenn,  NorSmeSr),  Norwegians,  Norse- 
men, Norway  men,  i.  43o  5x3o  XI3i8  Il63i  Il824  I52-is-29  T 534 15 
i54sh  l63is  *787  l84533  i85h  23T27  367io  "■  J38  x42i  225o 
99io  x37oo  16035  i8727  2964  321^  33<>i4  335i5  39*16  394s  45*9 
4675  12  iii.  419  i37  3810  39s  4S12  489  7624  92n  23  932o  loou^ 
IOI2(i  I202g  I22n  i2515  i3o29  i324is  i3832  i3918  141311 
i4630  i5o28  I5i2818  15932  i6o20  i6i13  i6617  i671922  i68727 

I7°7  J73l222  J74l4  I76461018I7728  :7830  I791S20  l87l321  227l420 
228112     23O10    23I1024     2371(J     24I1427     242252(J     24724     2523031 

253i52627  285n  36l27  372io  38oi4  22  46627 

NORTHUMBRIANS  (not,  as  in  the  text:  ' Northumbria ') 
(NorSimbrar),  i.  26i33 

ODD  (Oddr),  Kikina-skald,  an  Icelandic  poet,  sings  of  the 
battles  of  K.  Magnus  the  Good  in  Denmark,  iii.  5o23.32 — of 
the  death  of  Magnus,  9i19-28 

ODD,  son  of  Kol  (O.  Kolsson),  a  grandson  of  Hall  of  the 
Side,  a  saga-teller;  after  his  telling  Ari  the  Learned  wrote  the 
lives  of  the  kings  of  Norway,  which  Odd  himself  had  learnt 
from  the  Norwegian  Thorgeir  Afradskoll  of  Nidness,  i.  63.9 

ODIN  ('OBinn),  after  his  death  called  Odin  the  Old  ('OSinn 
hinn  gamli),  i.  2524 — Odin  of  the  As-folk  ('Asad^inn),  i.  i73 
— sire  of  As-folk  ('Asa  ni^r),  2i2 — chief  of  Asgarth,  which 
he  ruled  by  twelve  '  Diar,'  i2u.21 — his  divine  nature  and 
qualities,  i221-i36 — he  lays  hands  upon  and  gives  blessing  to 
his  warriors,  i227.30- — his  fondness  for  wandering,  i34.lt} — his 
dealings  with  the  Vanir,  i319-i419 — he  and  Mimir's  head,  i415 
i816 — made  Niord  and  Frey  temple  priests,  i420 — was  wise  in 
wizardry,  1 513 — migrates  with  his  Diar  to  the  North,  leaving  his 
brothers  Ve  and  Vili  in  charge  of  Asgarth,  i512-i630 — his 
dealings  with  Gylfi,  i524-i621 — being  the  source  and  author 
of  the  useful  arts,  he  and  his  Diar  teach  them  to  mankind, 
1 73.9— beautiful  in  peace,  terrible  in  war,  1 712.15 — could  change 
shape  at  will,  i716  i85.10 — he  and  the  Diar  spoke  in  verse  and 
brought  the  art  of  skald-craft  first  to  the  North,  i72].2li — his 
magic  powers,  i726  i8n-i93 — Bareserksgang  due  to  his  spell- 
working,  1 7«„j-i83 — his  converse  with  the  dead,  i818.21 — his 
ravens,  i82224 — his  mastery  in  runes,  wizard  songs  and  spell- 
craft,  i82;i-i93 — the  power  of  his  enchantments,  I98.28--  child- 
ren named  after  Odin,  i924 — his  legislation,  20323 — his  mili- 
tary and  pontifical  expenditure  defrayed  by  a  polltax  on  all 


138  Index  I  [odr — ogm 

Swedes,  2o20.23 — had  many  sons  with  Skadi,  2026-2i12 — died 
in  his  bed  in  Sweden,  2i20 — let  himself,  at  point  of  death,  be 
marked  with  a  spear-point  and  claimed  as  his  all  men  dead 
by  weapons,  said  he  would  go  to  Godhome  and  welcome  his 
friends  there,  2i22.25 — believed  to  have  gone  to  'Asgarth  of 
old  days,'  2i26 — then  began  anew  the  worship  of  Odin,  2i28 
— often  seen  in  visions  by  the  Swedes,  2i29.33 — was  burned 
in  the  seemliest  wise,  2  2x — unto  him  Niord  marked  himself 
before  his  death,  2  219 — K.  Swegdir  with  twelve  men  goes  on 
a  pilgrimage  to  Odin  the  Old  in  Godhome,  2522.24 — human 
sacrifices  made  to  him,  4218.21  31-4316 — King  Olaf  Treeshaver 
sacrificed  by  his  subjects  to  him  for  plenty  of  the  year,  6616.20 
— sword-smitten  hosts  sent  to  him,  i55n.14  20728.29  2590,. 
2Q825.2ti — Odin's  cup  drunk  at  sacrificial  feasts  for  victory  to 
the  king  and  increase  of  his  power,  i6528.29  i6914.16 — Odin  as 
lord  of  his  Elect  (valr),  and  host  in  the  Hall  of  the  Elect 
(Val-holl),  i895.l7  I9i13-i9312 — Odin's  acceptance  of  a  sacrifice 
for  victory  signified  by  the  appearance  of  two  croaking  ravens, 
2  5^21-27 — Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty  of  Ladir  alleged  to  have 
sacrificed  his  son  to  Odin,  2 8326.29— Odin's  attempt  to  beguile 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  3i428-3i614 — worshipped  in  Gautland  still 
in  the  days  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  146^.-^ — Odin  in  '  kennings,' 
i.  1910  207^  2492S  iii.  4o13 

ODR  ('OSr),  Freya's  husband,  i.  245 

OGMUND   (Ogmundr),   baseborn   son  of  Erling  Askew,  iii. 

4746 
OGMUND,  son  of  Foli,  ii.  4^ 

OGMUND  HAMMERER  (6.  dengir),  brother  of  Erling  Askew 
(presumably,  therefore,  son  of  Kyrping-Worm  and  Ragnhild, 
d.  of  Sveinki,  cf.  iii.  37i3.5),  so  much  superior  to  his  brother 
that  he  was  held  of  little  account  while  Ogmund  lived,  37713.15 

OGMUND,  son  of  Horda  Kari,  i.  303.^ 

OGMUND  IVARSON,  slain  at  Elda,  iii.  4i6r 

OGMUND  SANDY  (6.  sandi)  of  Halogaland,  a  forecastle  man 
on  board  the  Long- Worm,  i.  3537-8 

OGMUND,  son  of  Skopti  the  son  of  Ogmund  Thorbergson, 
his  marriage  and  children,  iii.  2  2  527.31 — his  act  of  devotion 
towards  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  231-^-2322 — in  the  dispute  of 
Skopti  with  K.  Magnus  he  goes  to  the  King  to  plead  for  his 
father,  and,  offended  at  the  King's  obstinacy,  he  leaves  his 


OGM — ola]  Index  I  1 39 

service  and  goes  south  to  Rome,  and  dies  on  the  journey, 

OGMUND  SWEEP  (O.  sviptir),  one  of  the  counsellors  of  K. 
Sigurd  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  hi.  359^  377i3 

OGMUND,  son  of  Thorberg  Arnison,  father  of  Skopti  of  Gizki, 
and  of  Ingibiorg,  wife  of  Egil,  s.  of  Aslak,  hi.  i84u  2090.,  225.^ 

OGMUND,  son  of  Earl  Worm  the  son  of  Eilif,  and  Sigrid,  the 
d.  of  Earl  Finn  Arnison;  his  children  Munan  and  Astrid,  the 
mother  of  Earl  Karl  Sonison,  hi.  35i3.s 

OGVALD  (Ogvaldr),  a  mythic  king  after  whom  Ogvaldsness 
was  named,  worshipped  a  certain  cow  which  he  took  with 
him  wheresoever  he  went,  and  of  whose  milk  he  always 
would  drink  for  his  health  (the  tale  told  by  Odin),  i.  3i55.18 
cf.  3i610.u 

OLAF  ('Olafr),  bonder.    See  Olaf  the  Quiet. 

OLAF,  a  king,  '  whom  Edmund  had  set  there  (in  the  South  of 
England)  for  the  warding  of  the  land,'  defeats  Eric  Bloodaxe 
in  a  great  battle,  i.  i5332-IS4i5 

OLAF  [son  of  Arnfinn  Arnmodson,  and  brother  to  Kalf  Arn- 
finnson],  stationed  by  the  side  of  Kalf  Arnison  his  kinsman, 
i.e.,  first  cousin,  in  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,ii.  43 125— receives 
his  death-wound  from  King  Olaf,  43232 

OLAF,  son  of  the  Swedish  king  Biorn,  brother  to  K.  Eric  the 
Victorious,  and  father  to  Styrbiorn,  i.  124- 

OLAF  BUTTERBREAD  ('O.  kliningr),  father  to  Gudrod 
King  of  the  South-isles,  hi.  424.^ 

OLAF  THE  FARSIGHTED  "('O.  hinn  skygni  [second- 
sighted?]),  King  of  Nerick,  father  of  Alof,  the  mother  of 
Gauthild  wife  of  Ingiald  Evil-heart,  i.  6527.2S 

OLAF  O'  DALE  ('O.  i  Dali),  a  wealthy  goodman  dwelling  in 
Aumord  in  Mickle-dale,  hi.  2  7718.21 — his  children  Hakon 
Fauk,  son,  and  Borghild,  daughter,  27721.22 — his  stay _  in 
wintertide  at  Burg  with  his  children  leads  to  his  becoming 
maternal  grandfather  of  Magnus  the  Blind,  277.^-278.^ 

OLAF  GEIRSTEADELF  ('O.  GeirstaSaalfr),  son  of  Gudrod 
the  Hunter-king  and  his  first  wife  Elfhild,  i.  323  7°jisu — half- 
brother  to  Halfdan  the  Black,  703,-71 17— father  to  Rognvald 
Higher-than-the-Hills,  323-4!— succeeds  his  father  and  shares 
the  kingdom  with  Halfdan,  72ir,.31 — his  death,  73^,,  cf.  77ni4 

OLAF  GEIRSTEADELF  ('O.  GeirstaSaalfr),  son  of  Harald 


140  Index  I  [ola 

Hairfair  and  Swanhild,  the  daughter  of  King  Eystein  (Eystein- 
son  of  Heathmark  ?),  i.  1  i4l7—  proclaimed  king  by  his  father, 
i3i18 — succeeded  to  the  kingdom  of  Guthrod  his  brother, 
i32l7.18— threatens  vengeance  on  his  brother  Eric  for  the 
murder  of  their  brother  Biorn  Chapman,  13521-03  —  after  whose 
fall  he  possessed  himself  of  his  dominion  in  Westfold,  and 
took  his  son  Gudrod  into  fostering,  i423.5 — made  sovereign 
king  by  the  Wick-men  when  they  heard  of  Eric  Bloodaxe's 
elevation  to  that  dignity,  i429.13 — his  contest  with  Eric  and 
fall  in  the  battle  of  Tunsberg,  i440.26 — his  howe  on  the  brent 
east  of  Tunsberg,  where  he  fell,  i44.25.26 

OLAF,  son  of  Harald  Kesia  and  Ragnhild,  daughter  of  King 
Magnus  Barefoot,  and  sister  to  Sigurd  Slembi-deacon,  hi. 
283r — Sigurd  Slembi-deacon  defeats  him  in  the  Elf,  35410.13 

OLAF'  KUARAN  ('O.  kvaran),  f98o,  king  of  Dublin,  father 
(not  brother,  as  Snorri  has  it)  of  Gyda,  who  married  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  i.  2  6422.23 — entertains  at  his  court  Olaf  Tryggvison 
(266.20.21)  289(9^3)  19.22 — This  is  impossible,  as  Olaf  left  Wend- 
land  for  Britain  not  till  about  986. 

OLAF  THE  LAD  ('O.  drengr),  stationed  in  the  forehold  of  the 
Long-Worm,  i.  35318 

OLAF,  King  of  Norway  1103-1115,  son  of  King  Magnus  Bare- 
foot and  of  Sigrid,  the  daughter  of  Saxi  in  Wick,  hi.  233n.13 
33620-21 — shares  with  his  brothers  Eystein  and  Sigurd  the 
kingdom  of  Norway  after  the  death  of  Magnus,  and,  being  a 
minor,  his  share  of  the  realm  is  looked  after  by  his  brothers, 
2477.12  cf.  26226.27 — personal  description,  268-^3 — his  short 
life  foreshadowed  in  a  dream  to  his  brother  Sigurd,  26933 
2  7o3.8— falls  sick  and  dies,  2  773.12 

OLAF  (Peacock)  ('O.  pai),  son  of  Hoskuld,  and  father  of 
Kiartan,  i.  334i5.16 

OLAF  THE  QUIET  ('Olafr  hinn  Kyrri),  King  of  Norway  1067- 
1093,  son  of  King  Harald  Sigurdson  by  Thora,  daughter  of 
Thorberg  Arnison,  surnamed  '  Quiet '  or  '  Bonder,'  married 
to  Ingirid,  d.  of  K.  Svein  Wolfson  of  Denmark,  no  issue; 
had  a  son,  Magnus  (Barefoot),  by  Thora,  d.  of  Joan,  hi.  9619.23 
i9427-i956 — accompanies  his  father  on  his  expedition  to 
England,  i6522.24 — with  him  at  the  battle  on  the  Ouse,  i6818.29 
— one  of  those  left  behind  to  guard  the  ships  when  his  father 
landed  his  army  at  Stamford  Bridge,   i7o18.19 — allowed  by 


ola] 


Index  I  141 


King  Harald  Godwinson  to  go  on  his  way  after  the  battle  at 
Stamford  Bridge,  i8i3.7 — brings  his  host  away  from  England 
and  arrives  in  the  Orkneys,  where  he  stays  through  the  winter, 
182.17-1834 — in  the  summer  he  goes  east  to  Norway  and  is 
taken  to  king  with  Magnus  his  brother,  183^ — gets  Ketil 
Crook  a  good  wedding  in  Halogaland,  i8314.10 — his  relations 
with  Skuli  the  King's  fosterer,  183,3-1844 — gives  Skuli  in 
marriage  Gudrun,  daughter  of  Nefstein,  iS^.^ — rules  over 
Norway  jointly  with  Magnus  his  brother  for  three  years,  i873.8 
-  K.  Svein  Wolfson's  threatened  breach  of  peace  and  invasion 
of  Norway  averted  and  secure  peace  arranged,  i87n-i888 — 
sole  king  of  Norway  after  the  death  of  Magnus  his  brother, 
i889  1914..- — personal  description,  iqi5.22 — first  to  move  the 
high-seat  from  the  middle  of  the  side-bench  of  the  hall  to  the 
dais  at  the  end  of  it :  to  introduce  stoves  in  halls,  and  to  lay 
floors  with  straw  in  winter  as  well  as  in  summer,  i923.9 — 
founds  the  mercantile  port  of  Biorgvin,  i9212.18 — builds 
churches,  1 9215.1S  1 959.^ — promoter  of  Guilds  and  Scot-houses, 
I92is-2G — encourages  new  fashions,  i922(;- 1933— his  courtly 
life  and  body-guard,  i93e-I94i6 — n^s  peaceful  ways,  wise  and 
sympathetic  rule,  i96.20-i9724 — his  relations  to  his  brother-in- 
law,  K.  Knut  the  Holy  of  Denmark,  i9727-i992 — K.  Olaf 
and  the  soothsayer,  1994-201— his  death  and  burial,  202. 

OLAF  [Hunger],  King  of  Denmark  1086-1095,  son  of  Svein 
Wolfson,  King  of  Denmark,  iii.  i9425 — married  to  Ingigerd, 
daughter  of  K.  Harald  Hardredy,  194.^.,,, 

OLAF  THE  SWEDE  ('O.  soenski),  K. "of  Sweden,  ob.  1024, 
son  of  K.  Eric  the  Victorious  and  of  Sigrid  the  Highminded, 
d.  of  Skogul  Tosti,  i.  213^  28412.14  35623.24  ii.  23n.12  iii.  2gs 
— tenth  King  of  Upsala  of  them  that  have  taken  that  kingdom 
one  after  the  other,  ii.  9710.11 — his  children;  in  wedlock: 
James  (Jacob,  afterwards  called  Onund,  i398.]3)  and  Ingi- 
gerd; by  Edla,  a  concubine:  Emund,  Astrid,  Holmfrid,  i397.8 
— gives  harbour  to  the  sons  of  Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir  when 
Olaf  Tryggvison  sets  up  for  king  of  Norway,  i.  29916.19 
cf.  3001.2  345t;.3o — on  his  mother  marrying  King  Svein  Twi- 
beard  of  Denmark,  close  political  relations  follow  between 
Sweden  and  Denmark,  34828.32 — at  K.  Svein's  request  he 
allies  himself  with  him  against  K.  Olaf  Tryggvison,  359^- 
360,; — watches    with    Svein    Twibeard    and    Earl    Eric    the 


142  Index  I  [ola 

fleet  of  Olaf  Tryggvison  sailing  out  to  Svold,  362^-364^ — 
arranges  terms  with  King  Svein  and  Earl  Eric  for  the  spoils 
of  war  in  case  of  victory,  36422.2S — takes  part  in  the  battle  of 
Svold,  367.^.03  3682V.31  369s.]0 — gives  his  daughter  Holmfrid 
in  marriage  to  Earl  Svein,  son  of  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty, 
377-21-22 — confers,  on  tributary  terms,  on  Earl  Svein  the  share 
of  Norway  that  fell  to  him  after  the  fall  of  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
37725-31 — n^s  defensive  measures  against  Olaf  Haraldson  (the 
Holy)  on  his  viking  invasion  of  Sweden,  ii.  70-826 — his  enmity 
to  Olaf  Haraldson  urged  by  K.  Sigurd  Syr  as  a  formidable 
obstacle  to  Olaf's  gaining  the  kingdom  of  Norway,  4o22.24 — 
he  receives  Earl  Svein,  his  son-in-law,  after  his  defeat  at 
Nesiar,  and  promises  to  restore  him  to  his  dominion  in  Nor- 
way, 65n.23 — receives  Einar  Thambarskelfir  as  fugitive  from 
Norway  and  entertains  him  at  his  court,  661S.21  2ii15.20— is 
deeply  offended  at  Olaf  Haraldson's  appropriation  of  Earl 
Svein's  dominion  which  the  latter  held  as  fief  of  his  father-in- 
law,  6621-671 — sends  a  mission  to  Norway  to  gather  the  taxes 
he  laid  claim  to  there,  which  ends  in  failure,  69^-7233 — 
moreover,  by  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  conquest  of  the  sea- 
board and  islands  of  Ranrealm  (1017),  7822.25 — by  the  com- 
plete loss  of  that  province  to  Norway  through  Eyvind 
Urochshorn's  victory  over  Roi  Squinteye,  8i10.19 — and  byThor- 
gaut  Harelip's  discomfiture  at  the  hands  of  Eyvind  Urochs- 
horn,  833.n — the  Swede  King  was  so  enraged  that  no  man 
durst  mention  Olaf  of  Norway  as  king  to  him,  8423.2S  967.10 
97^ — King  Olaf  Haraldson,  pressed  by  his  own  people, 
853_1S  26-86.,7 — having  sent  a  mission  to  Sweden  to  open 
negotiations  for  peace  between  the  two  realms,  8619-9i5 — re- 
ceives an  angry  reply  in  return  from  the  Swede  king,  and 
an  equally  decided  refusal  of  marriage  alliance,  96n-9822  993- 
ioo2 — his  relations  to  Hialti  Skeggison  of  Iceland,  and  to  his 
Icelandic  court  poets,  9i14.20  927.25  94is_95i5  96n-9825 — his 
bombastic  account  of  the  relations  between  Sweden  and  Nor- 
way from  the  reign  of  Harald  Hairfair  to  that  of  Olaf  Harald- 
son, 97x7-982.2 — his  angry  refusal  to  his  daughter  Ingigerd  to 
listen  to  counsels  of  peace  with  Norway;  threat  to  invade 
Norway,  g923-ioo.2 — his  attendance  in  state  at  Upsala-Thing, 
u814.1(y — his  insolence  to  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  messengers 
of  peace,   H910.12  2;rI2°9 — cowed  by   Lawman    Thorgnyr's 


ola] 


Index  I  143 


threatening  speech,  he  agrees  to  settlement  of  peace  between 
the  two  realms  and  promises  his  daughter  Ingigerd  in  marriage 
to  Olaf  of  Norway,  charging  Earl  Rognvald  with  the  execution 
of  all  the  affairs  relating  to  the  betrothal,  i221.18 — breach  of 
the  covenant  as  to  Ingigerd's  marriage,  1389.^  1393^140.^ 
I4in-i445 

His  character,  i3926.30 — a  successful  fowling  sport  made 
light  of  by  Ingigerd  as  compared  with  Olaf  Haraldson's  capture 
of  five  Upland  kings  at  one  swoop,  whereto  the  father's  answer 
was  blank  refusal  to  marry  her  to  Olaf  of  Norway,  140.^-142., 
— receives  in  a  friendly  manner  a  message  from  King  Jarisleif 
of  Holmgarth  soliciting  in  marriage  his  daughter  Ingigerd, 
i4818..,4 — he  formally  engages  Ingigerd  to  K.  Jarisleif  and 
consents  to  her  conditions  including  the  transfer  of  Earl 
Rognvald  of  West-Gautland  to  the  Earldom  of  Aldeigiaburg, 
1 5312-i  5431 — disaffection  in  West-Gautland  after  the  departure 
of  Earl  Rognvald,  i55n.3u — his  dealings  with  Emund  lawman 
of  West-Gautland,  156^-15927 — customs  at  his  court,  159,5.9 
— his  councillors,  i5917.19 — his  zeal  for  justice,  i5919.o2 — ex- 
planation of  Lawman  Emund's  enigmatic  law  cases  which 
the  king  unwarily  had  decided  against  himself,  i5927-i620 — 
his  three  faithful  advisers,  Arnwith,  Thorwith  and  Freywith 
allay  disaffection  in  the  realm  and  save  him  his  crown,  i6o30- 
i667 — his  son  James  proclaimed  king  and  co-regent  by  Frey- 
with's  prudent  diplomacy,  i64-i667 — Olaf  to  remain  king  on 
condition  of  keeping  on  friendly  terms  with  Norway,  i6531- 
i662 — peace  settled  at  last  between  the  two  Olafs  at  Kings' 
Rock,  i66n-i67s — his  death,  2io11 
OLAF  THE  THICK,  the  Holy  ('O.  hinn  digri,  hinn  helgi), 
King  of  Norway,  1015-1030,  son  of  Harald  the  Grenlander 
and  Asta,  d.  of  Gudbrand  Kula,  i.  620.21  8426.27  28714.19 — 
married  to  Astrid,  natural  d.  of  K.  Olaf  the  Swede,  ii.  i534.5 
iii.  49.10 — their  daughter  Ulfhild,  ii.  2>^9\  m-  34iM2—kas  by 
Alfhild,  king's  bondmaid,  a  son,  Magnus  (the  Good),  ii.  23525 
His  future  greatness  taken  to  have  been  revealed  to  his 
ancestor  Halfdan  the  Black,  i  84u.ig  25.27 — christened,  when 
three  years  of  age,  Olaf  Tryggvison  being  gossip  to  him, 
3ixi4-i7 — lives  in  childhood  first  with  his  grandfather,  Gud- 
brand Kula  and  then  with  K.  Sigurd  Syr,  his  stepfather, 
31I942  ii-  35-7 — his  foster-father  being  Rani  the  Widefaring, 


144  Index  I  [ola 

37-9 — personal  description,  39.12  414.31 — deals  contemptuously 
with  his  stepfather,  319-411— takes  to  the  profession  of  Vikings 
at  twelve  years  of  age,  with  Rani  for  captain,  himself  being 
king  of  the  host,  53.16 — wars  in  Denmark,  5lT.27 — harries 
Sweden,  in  revenge  of  his  father  whom  Sigrid  the  Haughty 
had  caused  to  be  slain,  victory  in  Sotisker;  warfare  in  the 
Low  and  escape  by  Agnisthwaite;  submission  of  Gotland, 
52S"9s  °f-  9815-20 — war  and  victory  in  Islesysla,  Q-.31 — his  warfare 
in  Finland,  io-n4 — his  raid  on  Denmark  and  victory  in 
Southwick,  1 i7.26 — attack  on  Frisland,  1 23.15 — goes  to  England, 
1 21S  26 — allies  himself  with  Ethelred  against  the  Danes,  breaks 
down  London  Bridge,  and  carries  the  Danish  positions  in 
Southwark,  I218-I5410.35 — his  victory  on  Ringmar-heath,  i63.25 
— capture  and  burning  of  Canterbury,  i73.24 — commands  the 
fleet  and  gains  victory  over  the  Thingmen  (Danes)  at  New- 
mouth,  i725-i84 — collects  Ethelred's  tribute,  i86.15 — his  wars 
and  victories  in  France,  i820-2o13  27-2i13 — has  a  dream  that 
designates  him  King  of  Norway,  so  he  turns  northward  to 
Rouen  in  Normandy,  2o13.24  27^-28! — he  undertakes  to  re- 
instate the  sons  of  Ethelred  on  the  throne  of  England  and, 
on  failing  to  oust  the  Danes,  parts  company  with  the  princes, 
sailing  to  Northumberland  and  fighting  victoriously  at  Wald, 
28r297 

Sails  from  Northumberland  to  Norway  and  lands  at  the 
island  of  Sele,  2Q10-3ol7 — sails  south  to  Saudungsound  and 
overcomes  Earl  Hakon,  son  of  Eric,  and  gives  him  pardon 
on  oath  that  he  will  never  again  bear  weapons  against  him, 
3°i8"3334 — v's^  t0>  ar,d  reception  by,  his  mother  and  stepfather, 
3322_37i8 — he  discloses  his  plans  at  a  family  council,  372r4ii7 
— the  kings  of  the  Uplands,  at  his  stepfather's  counsel,  declare 
for  him  and  give  him  the  title  of  King  of  Norway,  4i20-459 — 
Olaf's  progress  through  the  Uplands,  Gudbrandsdale  and 
north  over  the  mountains  into  Middledale  in  Thrandheim, 
where  a  meeting  of  the  franklins  accepts  him  as  king,  4512- 
460 — coming  to  Orkdale  he  takes,  after  some  trouble,  oaths 
of  allegiance  from  the  liegemen  of  Earl  Hakon  Ericson  in 
four  folklands  of  Thrandheim,  4626-4810— goes  down  to  the 
sea,  where  he  gets  together  a  small  fleet  of  three  longships  and 
four  or  five  cutters,  and  starts  up  Thrandheim  firth  for  Steinker, 
where   Earl  Svein   Hakonson  was  banqueting,    48]3-4921 — 


ola] 


Index  I  145 


finding  the  earl  gone  from  Steinker  Olaf  plunders  the  place 
and  repairs  for  Nidoyce,  which,  neglected  by  the  earls,  he  sets 
to  restoring,  in  order  to  spend  Yule  there,  50^-5^ — King 
Olaf  and  the  poets  Thord  Sigvaldi's  skald,  and  Sigvat  his 
son,  51,5-52 — Olaf's  flight  before  Earl  Svein  and  Einar  Tham- 
barskelfir  from  Thrandheim  south  over  the  mountains  to  the 
Dales,  53 — he  gathers  a  host  from  the  Uplands  and  arrays 
a  fleet  in  the  Wick,  542.18 — Olaf's  victory  in  the  battle  of 
Nesiar,  Earl  Svein's  and  Einar  Thambarskelfir's  flight,  55^- 
6410  io55.0 — lets  himself  be  proclaimed  king  at  Things  all 
through  the  western  Wick  unto  Lidandisness,  and  proceeds  to 
Thrandheim,  where  the  people,  except  Earl  Svein's  liegemen, 
submit  to  his  sway,  and  he  sets  about  rebuilding  Nidoyce 
which  Earl  Svein  had  burnt,  6412-65r — on  the  death  of  Earl 
Svein  all  Thrandheim  yields  fealty  to  King  Olaf,  whence 
sprang  great  enmity  from  Olaf  the  Swede  king,  661S-6713 — 
King  Olaf's  court  arrangements,  671G-685 — daily  habits,  68s.14 
— his  manners  and  character,  6829.31 — his  interest  in  legislation 
secular  and  ecclesiastical,  6814.2S — his  concern  for  Christianity 
in  the  Norwegian  colonies,  69^— his  dealings  with  the 
messengers  of  Olaf  the  Swede  king  claiming  suzerainty  over 
Norway,  69^-72 — his  messages  to  Hialti  Skeggison  and  Skapti 
the  speaker-at-law,  and  to  the  people  of  Iceland  concerning 
amendments  of  Christian  law  there,  734.15 — he  journeys  south 
along  the  land  promulgating  Christian  law  to  his  subjects, 
73i6"743—  he  is  proclaimed  king  at  every  '  Law-Thing,'  744.t; — 
he  makes  peace  with  Erling  Skialgson,  747"7515  cf.  5512.19  628.n 
— he  sails  to  the  Wick  and  brings  under  his  sway  all  the  eastern 
part  thereof  from  Swinesound  south  to  the  Gautelf,  75l7-7825 
he  founds  the  fortified  town  of  Sarpsburg  and  forbids  exports 
from  the  Wick  to  Gautland,  7820-7913 — King  Olaf's  bounty  to 
Eyvind  Urochshorn  and  Bryniolf  Camel,  7910-8or — highly 
offended  with  the  Swedes  for  slaying  his  tax-gatherer  in  Jamt- 
land,  and  confiscating  the  tribute,  8o10.l7 — canon  law  promul- 
gated through  the  Wick,  8o20-8i3 — commissions  Eyvind 
Urochshorn  to  slay  Roi  Squinteye,an  encroaching  tax-gatherer 
from  Sweden,  8i5.ly — procures  from  Russia  robes  of  State  and 
costly  table-service,  81^-83^— settles  with  Earl  Rognvald  of 
Gautland  peace  between  his  dominion  and  Norway,  83^,-84,,; 
— becomes  master  of  the  whole  of  Norway  south  to  Gautelf,' 
VI.  l 


146  Index  I  [ola 

8420.23 — incurs  the  implacable  hatred  of  Olaf  of  Sweden, 
^4-'3-2s — accedes  to  a  proposal  of  Biorn  the  Marshal  to  make 
overtures  for  peace  to  the  King  of  Sweden,  853-8627 — sends 
Biorn  and  his  companions  with  messages  of  peace  to  Sweden, 
8719-8826 — goes  through  the  Uplands  enforcing  Christian  law 
with  severe  cruelty  where  he  meets  resistance,  ioi24-io2 — con- 
spiracy by  five  Upland  kings  detected  and  cruelly  punished 
by  Olaf,  103-109^ — on  the  death  of  Sigurd,  his  stepfather, 
Olaf  alone  bears  the  title  of  king  in  Norway,  io927.30 — King 
Olaf  entertained  by  his  mother :  his  converse  with  her  sons, 
io928-iii23 — Biorn  the  Marshal  returns  from  his  mission  to 
Sweden,  which  had  been  so  successful  through  the  adroitness 
of  Hialti  Skeggison,  the  backing  up  of  Earl  Rognvald  and  the 
masterfulness  of  Lawman  Thorgnyr,  that  peace  was  established 
between  the  two  kingdoms,  and  Ingigerd  the  daughter  of  the 
Swede  king  was  promised  Olaf  of  Norway  in  marriage,  8827- 
ioi21  113^-122 — King  Olaf,  on  receiving  the  news,  summons 
to  him  a  great  and  noble  company  to  go  east  to  Gautelf,  where, 
in  autumn  of  the  year,  he  was  to  be  married  to  Ingigerd  of 
Sweden,  i233.13 — King  Olaf's  dealings  with  King  Rcerek  the 
blind,  I23J4-I37J — King  Olaf  and  Thorarin  Nefiolfson,  1333- 
i373 — -King  Olaf  sees  Hialti  Skeggison  off  with  friendly  gifts, 
1 3 77-9' — ne  g°es  with  a  brave  company  to  Kings'  Rock  for  his 
bridal,  but  learns  there,  after  a  long  tarrying,  that  the  King  of 
Sweden  has  broken  his  covenant;  advised  by  his  counsellors 
not  to  avenge  the  snub  with  war,  he  goes  back  to  the  Wick 
and  takes  up  winter  quarters  at  Sarpsburg,  i3726-i3826  1390,3" 
i4o25  i4i11-i445 — he  accedes  to  Sigvat  the  Skald's  offer  to 
go  to  Earl  Rognvald  to  find  out  what  the  intention  of  the 
King  of  Sweden  was,  i4415.21 — on  Sigvat's  return  Olaf  learns 
that  his  bride,  Ingigerd,  has  been  betrothed  to  King  Jarisleif 
of  Holmgarth,  i4818.24  i5o25.29 — but  hearing  that  her  sister, 
Astrid,  who  was  staying  at  the  court  of  Earl  Rognvald,  was 
in  every  way  an  equal  to  her  sister,  Olaf,  encouraged  by  Earl 
Rognvald,  married  her  without  asking  the  father's  consent, 

IS082-I539— 01af  of  Sweden's  anger  hereat,  154,5.12  *55i5-i9— 
peace  settled  between  the  two  Olafs  at  Kings'  Rock,  i66n- 
i678 — Olaf  of  Norway  goes  back  to  Tunsberg  and  thence  to 
Thrandheim,  wintering  in  Nidoyce,  and  now  bore  as  King  of 
Norway  as  extensive  a  sway  as  Harald  Hairfair  ever  did, 


OLAj 


Index  I  147 


I^7ii3o"I^93-n — King  Olaf  avenges  the  death  of  Eyvind 
Urochshorn  on  Earl  Einar  Wrongmouth  of  Orkney,  1 7423- 
Iy8.,(J — his  dealings  with  the  brothers  of  Einar,  Brusi  and 
Thorfinn,  who  both  acknowledge  him  liege  lord  of  Orkney, 
i78.,3-i8717 — his  journey  to  Halogaland  and  enforcement  of 
Christian  law  there,  return  to,  and  wintering  in  Nidoyce, 
189-192 — King  Olaf's  dealings  with  the  heathen  worshippers 
of  Upper-Thrandheim,  slaying  of  Olvir  of  Eggja,  193-198^ — 
he  gives  the  widow  of  Olvir  in  marriage  to  Kalf,  son  of  Ami, 
1 9^15- 1997 — missionary  expedition  to  Lesjar,  Dovrar,  Lora- 
dale,  and  other  countrysides  in  the  upper  Uplands,  i9910-2oo16 
— King  Olaf  brings  about  Gudbrand  a-Dales'  conversion  to 
Christianity,  200^-2093 — christening  of  Heathmark,  2O90.15: 
of  Thotn  and  Hathaland,  20915.17:  of  Ringrealm,  20917.19: 
of  Raumrealm,  2O910-2io5:  of  Solisles,  2io7.8 

K.  Olaf  sets  up  the  legislative  assembly  of  Heidsasvi  for  all 
the  Uplands,  2io15_21 — thereupon  he  betakes  himself  out  to 
Tunsberg  in  the  Wick,  whence  he  issues  an  order  forbidding 
export  of  cereals  from  Agdir,  Rogaland  and  Hordland,  and 
then  goes  east  to  the  land's  end,  2io22-2ii14 — makes  peace 
with  Einar  Thambarskelfir,  2ii15..28 — K.  Olaf  goes  to  Sarps- 
burg  and  resides  there  into  the  early  part  of  winter,  2ii28.31 
— K.  Olaf  rebukes  Erling  Skialgson  for  his  masterfulness, 
2i2-2i413 — K.  Olaf's  dealings  with  Asbiorn,  son  of  Sigurd,  and 
his  uncle  Erling  Skialgson  anent  the  murder  of  Thorir  Seal, 
2226-23o15 — full  enmity  between  K.  Olaf  and  Erling,  23i17.20 
— K.  Olaf  christens  Vors,  231^-2324 — christens  Valdres  after 
wasting  it  with  fire  and  sword,  23213-23423 — hence  he  goes 
north  through  the  Dales  unto  Thrandheim,  and  spends  the 
winter  (10th  regnal  year)  in  Nidoyce,  23424.29 — to  K.  Olaf  is 
born  a  natural  son  baptized  without  his  leave  by  Sigvat  the 
Skald,  23514-2373 — K.  Olaf  appoints  Asmund,  son  of  Grankel, 
to  the  half  of  the  bailiwick  of  Halogaland  against  Harek  of 
Thiotta,  the  real  object  being  that  Asmund  should  slay,  as 
he  did,  Asbiorn  Sealsbane  for  having  broken  the  covenant  of 
Ogvaldsness,  237,5-240.^ — in  the  spring  of  this  year  he  goes 
along  the  land  atoning  litigants  and  mending  the  religious 
ways  of  his  people  all  the  way  to  the  lands'  end  (Gautelf), 
24i2.10 — cultivates  friendship  with  Iceland  for  a  deep-laid 
political  purpose,   241^,-2420 — sends  a  message  to   Iceland 


148  Index  I  [ola 

praying  that  the  island  of  Grimsey  should  be  given  to  him — 
the  Icelanders'  cautious  reply,  2427-24614 — having  made  friends 
in  Faroe  (24i13.15)  chiefs  from  those  islands  go  to  King  Olaf 
at  his  request  and  give  the  islands  into  his  power,  246l7-24720 
— but  a  ship  sent  with  the  king's  tax-gatherers  on  board  never 
reached  its  destination,  24720.32 — from  the  eastern  land's  end 
(2415)  K.  Olaf  went,  in  the  autumn,  to  the  Upper  Wick  and 
the  Uplands  settling  law  and  right  among  the  people  and 
amending  Christian  law,  2483.12 — he  marries  Gunnhild,  his 
half-sister,  to  Ketil  Calf,  and  Isrid,  his  aunt,  to  Thord  Guth- 
orm's  son,  248^-2493 — thereupon  he  goes  south  over  Thotn, 
Hathaland,  Ringrealm,  to  the  Wick,  and,  in  the  spring,  tarries 
long  in  the  market-town  of  Tunsberg,  24910.14 — in  the  summer 
several  sons  of  Icelandic  chiefs  enter  the  king's  service, 
24919.o9 — that  summer  King  Olaf  heard  of  the  loss  of  his  first 
tax-gathering  ship  sent  to  Faroe — another  sent,  on  receipt  of 
the  news,  had  the  same  fate  as  the  first,  and  much  misgiving 
this  caused  in  Norway,  24930-250* — King  Olaf's  masterfulness 
drives  many  out  of  the  land  to  King  Knut  of  England,  25 112.25 
252o-i2 — Olaf  repels  in  bold  language  King  Knut's  claim  to  the 
crown  of  Norway,  252^-2545  255^..^ — King  Olaf  concludes 
in  autumn  an  alliance  with  K.  Onund  of  Sweden,  256-2575 — 
he  spends  the  winter  following  in  Sarpsburg,  2583.4 — sends 
Karli  the  Halogalander  to  the  north  country  with  his  errands 
and  on  a  trading  trip  to  Biarmland,  which  Thorir  Hound 
brought  to  a  disastrous  end,  2584-267,. — Kings  Olaf  and 
Onund  of  Sweden  meet  at  Kings'  Rock,  taking  privy  counsels 
together,  whereupon  Olaf  goes  back  to  the  Wick,  then  west 
to  Agdir  and  north  to  Hordland,  2679.19  28-268 — King  Olaf 
and  the  misdoers  of  Faroe,  269-274^ — failure  of  attempt  to 
get  himself  acknowledged  king  over  Iceland,  2  74^-27  5.^ — 
this  winter,  the  thirteenth  year  of  his  kingdom,  he  spends  in 
Nidoyce,  27524.29 — Olaf's  relations  to  Sweden  concerning  the 
possession  of  Jamtland,  276-277 — King  Olaf's  dealings  with 
Stein  the  son  of  Skapti,  and  Thorberg  Arnison,  278-28635 — 
Olaf  sends  Finn  Arnison  to  Halogaland  to  call  out  a  muster 
for  next  spring,  and  to  punish  Thorir  Hound  for  the  slaying 
of  Karli  and  the  robbery  of  the  king's  goods,  28633-291 — King 
Olaf's  adjudication  of  a  dispute  between  Harek  of  Thiotta  and 
Asmund  son  of  Grankel,  292-2  948 — he  sends  Thorod,  the  son 


ola] 


Index  I  1 49 


of  Snorri,  to  gather  taxes  from  Jamtland,  with  the  result 
that  the  mission  failed  utterly,  294ir30216 — King  Olaf  sends 
Karl  o'  Mere  to  the  Faroes  to  claim  tribute  thereof,  but  at 
Thrand  o'  Gate's  instigation  he  is  slain,  and  King  Olaf  never 
lived  to  avenge  him  of  this  wrong,  30230-310! 

King  Olaf  sets  out  on  his  expedition  against  Knut  the 
Mighty,  gathering  forces  from  Thrandheim  and  the  country 
north  thereof,  as  well  as  North-Mere,  Raumsdale  and  South- 
Mere,  awaiting  the  concentration  of  the  northern  fleet  at  Her- 
isles,  30219.27 — every  landed  man  from  the   North-Country 
joined  him  except  Einar  Thambarskelfir,  3ios.l7 — the  King 
commanded  a  new  built  war-galley,  the  Bison,  the  greatest  of 
all  ships,  and  made  with  his  fleet  south  past  Stad  into  Hord- 
land,  3iols.32  cf.  iii.  2  712 — learns  that  Erling  Skialgson  and 
his  sons  had  left  the  land  and  gone  to  join  Knut  in  England, 
31  il7 — being  informed  that  Knut  is  still  in  England,  but 
preparing  for  war,  he  sends  home  the  less  fightworthy  part  of 
his  host  and  makes  for  Denmark  with  the  rest,  3117.30 — 
harries  Sealand  in  Denmark,  and  hearing  that  K.  Onund  of 
Sweden,  according  to  the  covenant  of  Kings'  Rock  (pp.  267- 
268)  was  warring  on  Skaney,  he  takes  his  fleet  to  the  east 
and  joins  Onund,  whereupon  they  proclaim  their  intention  of 
subduing  Denmark  to  their  sway,  3123-313^ — on  hearing 
that  Knut  had  arrived  from  the  west  with  an  overwhelmingly 
strong  fleet,  Olaf  and  Onund  turn  their  war  eastward  and 
ravage  Skaney  on  their  way  till  they  come  to  the  Holy  River, 
where  they  make  a  halt,  319^-3207 — the  battle  of  the  Holy 
River  and  retreat  of  Kings  Olaf  and  Onund,  3207-323^ — 
they  sail  along  the  coast  of  Sweden  to  Barwick,  where,  at  a 
council  of  war,  Onund  declares  that  he  has  given  up  all  idea 
of  continuing  the  war,  and  Olaf  decides  to  wait  and  watch 
King   Knut's  movements,  32339-325^ — learning  that  King 
Knut  had  gone  back  by  the  Eresound  to  Denmark,  King 
Onund  steered  home  with  all  his  host,  K.  Olaf  abiding  behind, 
32728"32^t> — decides  to  go  back  to  Norway  overland  through 
Sweden,  and  to  leave  his  ships  in  charge  of  his  brother-in- 
law,  329^-330^. — his  arrayal  for  the  journey,  33i1(;.19 — his 
ships  hauled  ashore  in  Kalmar,  33i19.22 — Olaf's  journey,  ar- 
rival at  Sarpsburg  in  the  Wick,  furlough  given  to  many  of  his 
host,  333t;,21— Olaf  and  Sigvat  his  marshal,  333-^-3353  3373-28 


150  Index  I  [ola 

— King  Olaf  receives  from  many  sources  news  how,  with  Erling 
Skialgson  returning  to  his  estates,  messengers  from  K.  Knut 
loaded  with  money  came  into  the  land  and  went  wide  about 
bribing,  33517-33620 — after  Yule  he  breaks  up  on  a  journey 
through  the  Uplands  to  Thrandheim  from  where  no  dues  had 
yet  been  paid  him  this  year,  33729-33814 — Olaf  s  dealings  with 
Biorn,  the  steward  of  Queen  Astrid,  and  Red  of  Eastern  Dales 
and  his  sons,  338^-34 i2— finding  out  that  Thorir  the  son  of 
Olvir  of  Eggja  had  received  a  bribe  of  Knut  to  take  his  life 
King  Olaf  has  him  executed,  3415-34330 — Griotgard,  the 
brother  of  Thorir,  set  upon  by  King  Olaf  and  slain,  344-3455 
— Olaf  gives  up  the  journey  to  Thrandheim,  goes  back  to 
Tunsberg  in  the  Wick  and  calls  out  a  host,  but  speeds  slowly 
with  that  muster  and  finds  that  he  cannot  avail  himself  of 
the  ships  left  in  Sweden  on  account  of  King  Knut's  fleet, 
345s-24 — on  hearing  that  K.  Knut  was  preparing  an  invasion 
of  Norway,  Olaf  takes  counsel  with  his  diminishing  followers 
and  Sigvat  advises  flight,  346-3473 — while  Knut  invades  Nor- 
way and  sails  for  Agdir  and  the  northern  folklands,  K.  Olaf 
awaits  in  Tunsberg  the  arrival  of  his  ships  which  followed  in 
the  wake  of  the  Danish  fleet  going  to  the  north,  and  with  these 
ships  K.  Olaf  sailed  through  Oslo  firth  into  Drafn  and  lay 
there  till  Knut  had  gone  south  again  to  Denmark,  34815.16 
35221-3534 — learning  that  Knut  had  gone  to  Denmark  he 
sails  down  to  Tunsberg  with  thirteen  ships  and  thence  along 
the  coast  towards  the  north,  staying  a  long  while  in  the  Seal- 
isles  and  some  while  in  Eikund-sound,  35326~354i6 — from 
here  he  sails  for  the  north  past  Jadar,  pursued  by  Erling 
Skialgson  unto  Bokn,  where  he  defeats  Erling,  who  is  slain  by 
mishap,  35420-3598 — hence  he  sailed  north  past  Stad  unto 
Her-isles  and  learnt  that  Earl  Hakon  was  out  with  a  great 
host,  he  goes  on  to  Stonebight,  thence  to  Nyrfi,  past  Hound- 
ham,  Borgund,  and  in  through  Waysound  and  Skot,  holding 
on  till  he  came  to  a  place  called  Suit  in  Todarfirth,  where  he 
landed  and  beached  his  ships,  36o2(3.28  36i29.32  362,5-363^ — 
from  Suit  he  causes  a  road  to  be  opened  through  Skerf-skree 
and  gets  over  the  mountains  to  Lesiar,  363^-367^ — he  goes 
unto  Gudbrandsdale  and  Heathmark  and  finds  all  people 
turned  away  from  him  by  reason  of  the  slaying  of  Thorir  the 
son  of  Olvir  of  Eggja,  367.^-368^ — he  gives  furlough  to  his 


ola] 


Index  I  151 


following  who  were  anxious  about  the  fate  of  their  homes  and 
families,  368:.n— he  breaks  up  with  a  chosen  company  and 
his  queen  and  children  and  leaves  Norway  by  the  Eidwood, 
goes  through  Vermland  and  Nerick,  where  he  tarried  through 
the  spring  and,  when  it  was  summer,  sailed  to  King  Jarisleif 
in  Garthrealm,  where  he  was  well  entertained,  with  his  com- 
pany, 36812-47o4 — his  religious  devotion  in  adversity,  and 
plans  to  right  his  own  and  his  country's  cause,  37o4.18 — main- 
tenance of  evenhanded  justice  the  cause  of  K.  Olaf 's  down- 
fall, 37o.,.r37215 — Biorn  the  Marshal's  defection  from  and  re- 
turn to  the  allegiance  of  Olaf,  3  7  703-38 i4 — by  the  advice  of 
his  counsellors  Olaf  declines  the  offer  by  Jarisleif  of  vice- 
royalty  over  Bulgaria,  38i607 — he  halts  between  the  alterna- 
tive of  going  back  to  Norway,  or  into  some  monastery,  38il7- 
382n — he  has  a  dream  (cf.  2o11.24)  on  which  he  decides 
to  win  his  kingdom  of  Norway  again,  382^-383^ — King 
Olaf's  healing  powers,  38397-3852 — his  self-inflicted  penance 
for  not  heeding  holy  hours,  3855.22 — when  he  makes  his  re- 
solve to  regain  mastery  over  Norway  known  to  King  Jarisleif, 
every  assistance  is  promised  him,  38524-386n — he  leaves 
Garthrealm  after  Yule  and  sails  to  Gotland,  and  then  to  the 
Low  and  to  Riveroyce,  and  meets  his  brother-in-law  and 
Queen  Astrid,  386^-38 7 1(; — on  hearing  that  Olaf  had  come 
to  Sweden  the  chiefs  of  Norway  called  out  a  war-levy  through- 
out the  land,  to  oppose  him,  3890-390^  416.^-41 710 — at  the 
same  time  Olaf's  faithful  men  to  the  number  of  720  join 
the  standard  of  his  brother  Harald  Sigurdson  and  go  to  meet 
him  in  Sweden,  39o18.31 — King  Olaf  tarries  through  the  spring 
in  Sweden,  is  supplied  with  480  picked  men  by  King  Onund, 
39i3..,4 — he  meets  in  Ironstone-land  his  auxiliaries  from  Nor- 
way and  then  had  a  host  of  1,440  strong,  3923.15 — Day  son 
of  Ring  joins  King  Olaf's  standard  with  another  1,440  men, 
392 ]8-3931.> — he  sends  out  invitations  to  mercenaries  to  join 
him,  and  makes  his  way  to  Jamtland,  marching  in  three 
columns,  himself  with  his  Northmen,  Day  with  his  band,  and 
the  Swedes  by  themselves,  39315-3945 — King  Olaf  refuses  the 
help  of  non-Christian  auxiliaries,  3948-395o5 — his  vision  when 
from  the  Keel  mountain  Upper-Thrandheim  opened  to  the 
view,  396 — King  Olaf's  arrival  down  from  the  mountain  to 
Sula  in  Upper  Veradale,  and  his  dealings  with  Thorgeir  Fleck 


152  Index  I  [ola 

and  his  sons,   397-398^ — he  marches  from   Sula   to  Staff 
(Stave)  and  musters  his  forces  and  christens  heathen  auxili- 
aries and  sends  away  such  as  would  not  become  Christians, 
398i8"399 — his  address  to  the  army,  400-40 110 — he  holds  a 
council  of  war  and  decides,  against  his  men,  not  to  burn  and 
plunder  the  country,  401^-4045— King  Olaf  charges  his  skalds 
to  stand  next  to  him  in  the  battle,  in  order  that  they  may 
sing  of  coming  events  as  eye-witnesses  and  not  from  hear- 
say, 404s-4o65 — King  Olaf's  offering  for  the  repose  of  the 
souls  of  his  enemies,  4o68-4o73— King  Olaf  calls  on  Thormod 
Coalbrowskald  to  sing  at  the  dawn  of  the  day  of  the  battle  of 
Sticklestead,  4076-4o828— King  Olaf  charges  the  Icelanders  in 
his  host  to  slay  Ram  of  Vigg  and  his  band  of  spies,  4°93-2s 
— he  arrives  at  Sticklestead  and  makes  a  halt,  awaiting  the 
company  of  Day,  409^-4  io4  42  529-426u — he  orders  the  Lap- 
landers to  carry  his  banners  and  his  young  brother  Harald  to 
withdraw,  which  he  refuses  to  do,  4io4.25 — King  Olaf's  behest 
to  the  goodman  of  Sticklestead  to  look  after  the  wounded, 
4io28-4iiu — his  charge  to  the  troops  and  explanation  of  his 
tactics,  41  i14-4i  220 — his  standard  borne  by  Thord  son  of  Foli, 
4i223-4i34 — his  armour  and  weapons  in  the  battle,  4 1 37.24 — 
King  Olaf  has  yet  a  dream,  which  Finn  Arnison  aredes  as  be- 
tokening the  king's  death,  413^-414— Olaf  accepts  the  war 
service  of  Arnliot  Gellini  after  having  christened  him,  415- 
4i6l7 — altercation  between  Olaf  and  Kalf  son  of  Ami,  42614- 
42 76 — the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  fall  of  Olaf,  427^-434 
44225-3i — Thorir  Hound  gives  him  lyke-help  and  is  healed  by 
his  blood,  4353.20 — his  body  is  hidden  away  in  an  outhouse 
at  Sticklestead  by  Thorgils  son  of  Halma  and  his  son  Grim, 
4443.14 — then,  lest  it  should  be  discovered,  they  hide  it  away 
in  a  neighbouring  meadow,  44524.3i — they  next  make  a  chest 
for  it  and  carry  it  on  board  a  boat"  hiding  it  below  deck,  placing 
a  dummy  coffin  on  deck  filled  with  straw  and  stones,  4475-4483 
— at  Nidoyce  they  hand  the  false  chest  to  K.  Olaf's  enemies, 
who  sink  it  into  the  deep  of  the  Firth,  while  Thorgils  and  his 
son  take  the  chest  with  the  king's  body  up  the  river  Nid  and 
land  it  at  the  spot  called  Saurlithe,  and  wake  it  in  a  lonely  out- 
house, 4488.28 — failing  to  persuade  friends  of  the  dead  king  to 
take  charge  of  his  body,  they  bring  it  further  up  the  river  and 
bury  it  by  night  in  a  sandhill  on  the  bank,  and  go  back  to 


ola] 


Index  I  153 


Sticklestead,  44809-449; — the  holiness  of  K.  Olaf  begins  to  take 
hold  of  peoples'  minds,  45  23.12  24.20  453-21-27  454.J-15 — King  Olaf 's 
body  is  unearthed  and  '  buried"  in  earth  at  Clement's  Church,' 
455..- — 'and  when  twelve  months  and  five  nights  were  worn 
from  the  death '  of  the  king  '  his  holy  relic  was  taken  up ' 
(translatio)  and  his  body  was  placed  over  the  high  altar  in 
Clement's  Church,  455i7"4572  ni-  935.7— churches  reared  on 
sites  where  the  body  of  the  king  had  been  placed,  4575-25 — 
miracles  reported  by  Thorarin  Praisetongue,  45814-46o14 — 
calculation  of  Olaf's  regnal  years,  460^-46 12 — his  miracles  to 
be  written  in  chronological  order  (not  in  a  bulk),  46i16.18 — 
Queen  Astrid's  devotion  to  his  memory,  hi.  413-535 — Swedes 
discontented  at  the  result  of  their  alliance  with  Olaf,  431.33 — 
Sigvat's  lament  on  the  fall  of  Olaf,  i2-.14— enshrinement, 
many  miracles  at  the  shrine,  i63-i74 — Thorgeir  Fleck's  re- 
flections on  Olaf's  death,  i95.15 — Olaf's  traitors  punished, 
21 16-2C — 01af's  holiness  and  miracles  known  over  all  lands 
(ajd.  1042),  2814.1(5— '  Glad,'  a  bell  given  by  K.  Olaf  to  St. 
Clement's  Church  in  Nidoyce,  3524.20 — K.  Olaf's  axe  'Hell' 
borne  by  Magnus,  his  son,  3619 — K.  Magnus'  trust  in  the 
power  of  his  father  as  intercessor,  3924.26 — appears  to  Harald 
Hardredy  when  taken  to  prison  in  Constantinople,  promising 
his  help,  7315.17 — a  chapel  built  and  hallowed  to  Olaf,  in  the 
street  where  he  appeared  to  Harald,  7317.20 — gave  his  son 
Magnus  a  ring  for  a  parting  gift,  8618.20 — his  hair  and  nails 
clipped  by  K.  Magnus,  8723.28 — foreshadows  in  a  dream  King 
Magnus'  death,  90.^-9 17 — K.  Magnus'  dead  body  brought  to 
his  father,  9213.18  933.7 — K.  Olaf's  relic  kept  in  Olaf's  church 
while  Mary  church  was  building,  io5c.s— the  evil  resulting 
from  the  treason  against  Olaf  held  out  as  a  warning  to  people 
driven  to  despair  by  Harald  Hardredy's  tyranny,  ii310-i2 — 
K.  Olaf's  rule  to  have  only  one  earl  in  the  country  followed 
as  a  principle  by  K.  Harald,  n63.5— Olaf's  wake,  1240  4677.s 
— miracle  at  the  battle  between  K.  Margath  and  Guthorm 
Gunnhild's  son,  i243.28 — a  certain  count  in  Denmark  struck 
blind  by  a  miracle  of  Olaf's,  1 2 S^—  Olaf's  mass  in  Den- 
mark, i2531 — a  cripple  of  Valland  healed  by  going,  at 
Olaf's  behest,  to  a  church  consecrated  to  him  in  London, 
I2^i-3o— Olaf's  shrine  never  opened  after  a.d.  1066,  when 
Harald  Hardredy  threw  the  keys  of  it  into  the  river  Nid, 


154  Index  I  [ola 

1 6310-14 — Olaf's  age  when  he  died,  i6315.16 — Haldor  Bryniolf- 
son's  estimate  of  Olaf's  character,  i867.31 — Olaf's  shrine  re- 
moved to  Christ's  Church,  miracles,  iQ514-i96l7  380^3 — 
miracle  on  a  disbelieving  scoffer,  237^-2384 — on  a  crippled 
woman,  238^ — splinter  of  the  Holy  Cross  given  to  K.  Sigurd 
Jerusalem-farer,  to  be  placed  where  K.  Olaf  rested,  2  5714.27— 
K.  Olaf  appears  to  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  in  a  dream, 
269^-2  7o24 — miracle  on  Kolbein,  whose  tongue  had  been  cut 
out,  3029-303(i — miracle  on  a  Danish  captive  in  Wendland, 
3039-306 — vow  made  to  K.  Olaf  by  Harald  Gilli,  32  212.15 — 
miracle  on  Haldor  mutilated  by  Wends,  380^-38 18 — miracle 
on  priest  Richard,  381^385^ — miracle,  whereby  K.  Olaf's 
sword  '  Hneitir '  came  to  be  hung  up  in  Olaf's  Church  in 
Constantinople,  4283-429^ — K.  Olaf  gives  a  miraculous  vic- 
tory to  the  Veerings  on  the  fields  of  Pezina,  429.^-431— K. 
Olaf's  canon  law  debated  by  Abp  Eystein  and  Erling  Askew, 
46 1 05-46  2 12 

OLAF  TREE-SHAVER  ('O.  tretelgia),  son  of  K.  Ingiald 
of  Sweden,  sent  by  his  mother  into  fostering  at  Bove,  her 
foster-father's,  in  West  Gautland,  i.  6230-635 — was  refused 
succession  to  his  father's  kingdom  by  the  Swedes,  and  so 
became  the  colonizing  King  of  Vermland  by  clearing  the  wild- 
woods  and  was  nicknamed  Tree-shaver  for  his  trouble,  653.21 
— married  Solveig,  daughter  of  Halfdan  Goldtooth  of  Solisles, 
6509.05— his  children,  652S31 — his  death,  6633, 

OLAF"  TRYGGVISON  (;0.  Tryggvason),  King  of  Norway, 
995-1000,  son  of  Tryggvi  the  son  of  Olaf  Geirsteadelf  and 
of  Astrid,  d.  of  Eric  Biodaskalli,  i.  2235.7  16.21  ii.  897 — married, 
1,  Geira,  d.  of  K.  Burislaf  in  Wendland,  2  5225.31 — 2,  Gyda 
the  English,  2  6620.21;  their  son  Tryggvi,  ii.  463^ — 3,  Gudrun, 
d.  of  Jarnskeggi,  32  2c.19— 4,  Thyri,  d.  of  K.  Harald  Gormson, 
35°27-3o — their  son  Harald,  died  in  childhood,  35593.30 — 
founder  of  the  town  of  Nidoyce,  610 — fell  wellnigh  eighty 
years  before  the  death  (1080)  of  bp  Isleif,  624 

Born  on  a  holm  in  a  certain  water  where  his  mother  kept 
in  hiding  from  Gunnhild's  sons  after  the  murder  of  her  hus- 
band, 2  2  316.21 — lives  his  first  year  in  hiding  with  his  mother 
at  his  grandfather's,  2  2323-2  2413 — adventurous  flight  out  of 
Norway  to  Sweden  to  Hakon  the  Old,  where  Olaf  was  wel- 
comed and  where  he  sojourned  for  a  time,  22521-227O0 — 


ola] 


Index  I  1 55 


failure  of  Gunnhild's  plan  to  fetch  Olaf  from  Sweden  in  order 
to  be  fostered  by  her,  22703-228^ — taken  captive  on  a  journey 
to  Russia  and  sold  for  a  slave  when  three  years  old,  in 
which  condition  he  lived  for  six  years,  2  2826-2  2920 — he  is  ran- 
somed from  slavery  by  Sigurd,  his  mother's  brother,  and 
brought  to  Holmgarth,  22903-2309 — he  slays  Klerkon,  the 
murderer  of  his  foster-father,  and  is  protected  by  the  queen 
of  Holmgarth,  Allogia,  who  atones  the  manslaughter  and 
brings  it  about  that  King  Valdimar  entertains  Olaf  at  his 
court  for  nine  years,  till  he  was  eighteen  years  old,  23o12- 
23104 — personal  description,  23105.07 — youth  and  manhood: 
held  in  high  favour  at  court,  he  was  appointed  captain  of  the 
king's  forces,  had  some  battles  and  his  command  was  success- 
ful, 25o4.19 — his  free  living  and  bounty  to  his  men,  250^.03 — 
slandered  to  the  King,  he  loses  favour  and  leaves  Russia, 
dropping  his  proper  name  and  calling  himself  Oli  the  Garth- 
realmer,  25003.33-25100  26229.31 — makes  a  raid  on  Borgund- 
holm  and  gains  a  battle  there,  25103.07 — driven  from  Borgund- 
holm  by  storms  he  sails  to  Wendland  and  in  the  winter  weds 
Geira,  the  daughter  of  K.  Burislaf,  2523-253,3— he  subdues 
certain  countries  in  Wendland  that  had  broken  away  from  the 
rule  of  his  wife,  2  549.1S — next  spring  he  carried  war  into  Skaney 
and  came  off  victorious,  254^.03 — thence  he  sailed  east  to  the 
island  of  Gothland  and  gained  the  day  in  two  engagements, 
254o4-2558 — Olaf  joins  the  Emperor  Otto  II.  on  an  expedition 
against  Denmark,  255m5  2  6on.12 — when  he  had  been  three 
winters  in  Wendland  Geira,  his  wife,  died  and  Olaf  took  to  his 
ships,  warfaring  in  Friesland,  Saxland  and  Flanders,  26o21- 

261 12 

Olaf  in  the  West. — From  Flanders  he  sailed  to  England, 

northward  to  Northumberland,  thence  to  Scotland,  to  the 

Southern  Isles,  to  Man,  to  sundry  parts  of  Ireland,  to  Wales, 

to  Cumberland,  to  Valland  (N.W.  of  France),  and  carried 

war  into  all  these  lands  for  four  years,  26i15.26 — sails  back  to 

England  and  comes  to  the  Scilly  Islands,  where  he  falls  in 

with  a  soothsayer  who  converts  him  to  Christianity,  26i26- 

26412 — leaves  the  Scillies  and  goes  to  the  mainland  of  England, 

where  he  meets  Gyda,  a  daughter  of  K.  Olaf  Kuaran  of 

Dublin,  to  whom,  after  a  successful  duel  with  a  rival,  Alfwin, 

he    is    married,   and    they  abide   in    turn   in   England  and 


156  Index  I  [ola 

Ireland,  26415-26621 — Olaf  purchases  the  dog  Vigi  for  a  golden 
ring  in  a  foraging  raid  in  Ireland,  26624-26715 — Earl  Hakon 
commissions  Thorir  Klakka  to  betray  Olaf,  28823-2891(5 — Olaf 
Tryggvison  and  Thorir  Klakka,  289^-291 

Olaf,  King  of  Norway.  From  information  received  from 
Thorir  Klakka,  Olaf  broke  up  from  Dublin  and  set  sail  for 
the  east,  touching  Sodor,  the  Orkneys,  where  he  christened 
Earl  Sigurd  Hlodverson,  and  making  Mostisle,  off  South- 
Hordland  in  Norway,  28934-29 113  cf.  ii.  i6915.27  i8o5.10 — 
keeping  bis  identity  and  errand  secret,  he  sailed  north  day 
and  night  till  he  hove  into  Thrandheim-firth  and  encountered 
and  slew  Erland  the  son  of  Earl  Hakon,  29i14.21  2953.^ — 
Olaf  proclaimed  king  provisionally  by  the  yeomen  of  Thrand- 
heim  flocking  to  him,  2963.,; — goes  to  Rimul  in  Gauldale, 
where  Earl  Hakon  was  hiding  in  a  hole  beneath  a  swine-sty, 
and  from  a  stone  close  by  that  sty  harangues  his  following, 
and  sets  prize  on  Hakon's  head,  296^ — has  Hakon's  thrall 
Kark  beheaded  at  Ladir  for  the  murder  of  his  master,  the 
Earl,  2978.23— Olaf  proclaimed  legally  at  Ere-Thing  king 
over  all  Norway,  2993.3 — went  that  winter  and  the  next  summer 
through  the  land  receiving  the  allegiance  of  the  people,  2999- 
3oo4 — he  christens  the  people  of  the  Wick,  dreadfully  mis- 
handling those  who  opposed  him,  302,5-303^ — thence  he  went 
west  to  Agdir,  and  christened  the  people  there,  30316.23 — from 
Agdir  he  went  north  into  Rogaland,  and  had  a  meeting  with 
the  '  bonders '  whose  pre-concerted  opposition  failed,  and  all 
those  who  attended  the  meeting  were  christened,  3O410-3o527 
— next  he  proceeded  to  the  Gulathing  in  Hordland  to  meet 
the  mighty  kindred  of  Hordakari,  who  had  made  among  them- 
selves a  plan  to  resist  all  forced  conversion,  but  accorded  to 
the  king's  will  when  he  consented  to  marry  his  sister  Astrid 
to  Erling  of  Soli,  the  great-grandson  of  Hordakari,  303^- 
30413  3063-30730 — he  confers  on  Erling  dominion  from  Sogn 
to  Lidandisness  on  Harald  Hairfair's  terms,  3o86.15  ii.  2  33.7 — 
in  the  same  autumn  Olaf  summons  to  a  meeting  at  Dragseid 
on  the  peninsula  of  Stad,  the  representatives  of  Sogn,  the 
Firths,  Southmere  and  Raumsdale,  and  awes  them  into  con- 
version to  Christianity  by  superiority  of  force,  3o8is"3°94 — 
then  he  christens  the  folk  of  North- Mere,  3095.6 — he  breaks 
down  and  burns  the  temple  of  Ladir,  and  appropriates  all 


ola] 


Index  I  157 


the  wealth  thereof,  and  burns  the  ruin,  309^ — rebellion 
threatened  in  Thrandheim,  30913.15 — Olaf  sets  sail  out  of 
Thrandheim  for  Halogaland  to  christen  people  there,  and 
on  hearing  that  a  war-host  was  out  there  to  meet  him  he 
turns  south  along  the  land  all  the  way  to  the  Wick,  3O910.29— 
Olaf  and  Queen  Sigrid  the  Haughty  of  Sweden  become  be- 
trothed, 3103.3 — Olaf  sends  her  the  great  gold  ring  he  had 
taken  from  the  temple  door  of  Ladir,  and,  to  Sigrid's  great 
indignation,  it  proves  all  brass  inside,  3io9.29 — betrothal 
violently  broken  off,  31 i24.3i212 — Ringrealm  christened,  King 
Sigurd  Syr  and  his  family  converted,  Olaf  Haraldson  (the 
Holy)  baptized,  3io30-3ii17 — from  Ringrealm  Olaf  goes  into 
residence  at  Tunsberg  in  the  Wick,  Z11^-^ — his  dealings 
there  with  wizards  and  spellworkers,  3i218-3i314 — he  levies  a 
war-host  out  from  the  Wick  to  go  into  the  north  country  {i.e., 
Thrandheim),  and,  passing  through  Agdir,  proceeds,  late  in 
Lent,  to  Rogaland,  and  arrives  at  Ogvaldsness  for  his  Easter- 
feast,  with  nigh  360  men,  Z1^^ — his  dealings  with  his  kins- 
man the  wizard  Eyvind  Wellspring  (they  were  both  great- 
grandsons  of  Harald  Hairfair),  312^-313^  28-3i425 — King 
Olaf  and  Odin  (a  legend),  3i42S-3i614 — he  draws  a  host 
together  against  the  Thrandheimers,  but  being  faced  at 
Frosta-Thing  by  an  overwhelming  armed  multitude,  and 
stoutly  opposed,  especially  by  Iron-Skeggi,  he  temporizes 
with  the  franklins,  putting  matters  off  till  the  midsummer 
sacrifice  at  Mere,  31 6^-3183 — gives  a  great  feast  at  Ladir 
to  the  mightiest  men  of  Thrandheim,  and  at  a  husting  de- 
clares that  at  the  forthcoming  sacrifice  at  Mere  he  will  have 
eleven  (or  rather  twelve)  chiefs  of  Thrandheim  sacrificed 
to  the  gods,  so  all  the  assembled  guests  took  Christianity  on 
oath,  and  gave  hostages  in  security  of  their  good  faith,  3185- 
31922 — At  the  Thing  of  Mere  the  bonders  through  Iron-Skeggi 
declared  they  would  not  be  christened;  so  Olaf  agreed  to  go 
with  them  into  the  temple,  where  he  and  his  men  smote  down 
the  images,  slew  Iron-Skeggi,  and  made  ready  to  fight,  where- 
upon all  the  heathen  congregation  let  itself  be  christened, 
giving  hostages  to  the  king,  and  in  a  short  time  all  Thrand- 
heim was  converted  to  Christianity,  31 9^-32  ils — Olaf  founds 
the  town  of  Nidoyce,  69.n  32i21.29  ii.  5o1(J.22 — atones  the  slay- 
ing of  Iron-Skeggi  by  marrying  his  daughter  (iudrun,  who 


158  Index  I  [ola 

makes  an  attempt  on  his  life  the  first  night  of  their  bridal 
and  never  joined  the  king  again,  32  23.19 — Olaf  causes  a  great 
war  galley,  'The  Crane,'  to  be  built,  32222.29 — Olaf  sends 
Thangbrand  to  Iceland  to  christen  the  people,  S23b-m — King 
Olaf's  way  of  kidnapping  Harek  of  Thiotta  and  Eyvind  Rent- 
cheek,  324-328^ — Olaf  christens  Halogaland,  32823-329*. 
33 13-5  33327"3343 — his  dealings  with  Thorir  Hart  and  Raud 
the  Strong",  329i0-33°26  33I5"33326— returns  from  Halogaland 
in  autumn,  and  spends  the  winter  in  Nidoyce,  33331-3340 — 
King  Olaf  and  the  Icelanders  in  Nidoyce,  334^-340^ — King 
Olaf's  accomplishments  and  character,  340^-34  i13cf.  ii.  i9i9§- 
192,, — Olaf  christens  Leif  the  son  of  Eric  the  Red,  34i1(;.20 — 
causes  the  Long- Worm  to  be  built,  3434-3453  cf.  iii.  28320.23 
— Olaf  marries  Thyri  the  sister  of  K.  Svein  Twibeard,  the  run- 
away queen  of  K.  Burislaf,  35o3.31 — is  urged  by  Thyri  to 
claim  her  dominions  in  Wendland,  to  which  he  reluctantly 
consents,  35o32-35i33 — his  levy  for  the  Wendland  expedition, 
3523~354r — sends  Gizur  the  White  and  Hialti  Skeggison  to 
christen  Iceland,  and  Leif  Ericson  the  Lucky  on  the  same 
errand  to  Greenland,  35410-25  3  5 53-17 — his  son  Harald  dies  a 
year  old,  35500-30 — he  arranges  for  the  betrothal  of  his  sister 
Ingibiorg  to  Earl  Rognvald  of  West-Gautland,  35618-35729 — 
marriage  effected  in  his  lifetime,  ii.  237.10 — he  goes  with  sixty 
longships  to  Wendland  and  settles  his  claims  with  King 
Burislaf,  and  spends  much  of  the  summer  there,  i.  3583.93 — 
alliance  against  Olaf,  at  the  instigation  of  Sigrid  the  Haughty, 
arranged  between  Sweden  and  Denmark,  joined  by  Earl  Eric 
the  son  of  Hakon,  3580,3-360,3  36422.2S  cf.  ii.  985.s — Olaf  led 
into  a  trap  by  Earl  Sigvaldi  of  Jomsburg,  36o,r36210 — his 
enemies'  comments  on  the  appearance  of  his  fleet,  362.^-364^ 
— King  Olaf  scorns  flying  away  for  overwhelming  odds,  36515.33 
— the  battle  of  Svoldr,  366-3 7414  ii.  260.7 — King  Olaf  jumps 
overboard,  various  theories  about  his  end,  37414-3778  cf.  ii. 
2i19  2  213  985.s — his  example  urged  as  a  warning  to  Olaf 
Haraldson  by  K.  Sigurd  Syr  4o30.33  as  an  encouragement  by 
his  mother  Asta  4i7.10 — adverse  comments  on  his  reign  by 
Rcerek  King  of  Heathmark,  432.17 — his  policy  copied  by  Olaf 
Haraldson,  4729.31  cf.  8726.31 — but  his  example  serves  him  as 
a  warning  not  to  engage  too  rashly  in  a  fight,  33o9.19 — he 
counsels  Olaf  the  Holy  in  a  dream  to  reconquer  Norway,  38214- 


ola — olv]  Index  I  159 

383n — Sigvat  presses  his  example  on  K.  Magnus  the  Good, 

iii-  23io-ir 
OLAF  THE  UNLUCKY  (O.  6ga3fa,  lit.  Ill-luck),  son  of  Gud- 
brand  the  son  of  Shavehew  and  Maria,  d.  of  K.  Eystein  the 
son  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  fostered  by  Sigurd  Bait-hat  in 
the    Uplands,   iii.   474i7-2o — 0laf  and  Gudbrand   raise   the 
standard  of  revolt  against  Erling  Askew  and  his  son  K.  Mag- 
nus, Olaf  being  proclaimed  king  by  the  Uplanders,  47420.24 — 
his  dealings  with  Erling,  fights  at  Rydiokul  and  Stangs^  in 
both  of  which  Olaf  is  worsted,  474^-47  720 — his  death  and 
burial-place,  477o0-->3 
OLAF  THE  WHITE  ('O.  hvfti)  (King  of  Dublin),  i.  n6W20 
OLI  GARTHREALMER  ('OH  gerzki),   an  incognito  name 
assumed  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  26231  265n  28825  29  289^  20 

23  25 

OLMOD  (Olmo'Sr),  son  of  Horda  Kari,  i.  3O330 — treats  with 
Olaf  Tryggvison  to  have  Hordland  converted  to  Christianity 
on  condition  of  his  grand-nephew  Erling  Skialgson  obtaining 
in  marriage  Astrid,  the  king's  sister,  3043.13  3063-30 730 

OLVER  (Olvir),  the  name  of  three  goodmen  in  West-Gautland, 
who,  each  in  his  turn,  refused  night  quarters  to  Sigvat,  ii. 
1 4634.34 

OLVIR  MICKLEMOUTH  (6.  mikilmunnr),  his  deed  of 
valour  at  the  siege  of  Kings'  Rock  by  the  Wend  King  Rettibur, 
iii-  32805-32932 

OLVIR  OF  EGGJA  (6.  a  Eggju,  nom.  Egg,  a  form  which  for 
obvious  reasons  was  discarded),  son  of  Thrand  o'  Chin,  married 
to  Sigrid  d.  of  Thorir,  ii.  i9825.26;  their  sons:  Thorir,  3415 
and  Griotgarth,  3443 — heads  a  number  of  goodmen  sum- 
moned from  Upper-Thrandheim  to  answer  charges  of  per- 
formances of  heathen  sacrifices  brought  against  them  by  King 
Olaf  Haraldson,  1933-194,, — meets  the  King  again  on  similar 
charges,  i9413-i9520 — set  upon  at  Mere  by  King  Olaf  and 
killed,  1 9633- 1 9 74  15.18 — the  King  judges  that  he  shall  not  be 
atoned  for,  and  confiscates  all  his  property,  1985.7 — his  widow, 
Sigrid,  given  by  the  King  in  marriage  to  Kaif,  son  of  Ami 
Arnmodson,  i9825- 1993—  his  slaying  made  use  of  by  Sigrid  for 
turning  Kalf  into  a  traitor  to  K.  Olaf,  ii.  374.,-37614 

OLVIR  THE  SAGE  (6.  hinn  spaki),  King  Haffdan  the  Black's 
foster-father,  falls  in  fight  with  the  sons  of  Gandalf,  i.  8o1(| 


160  Index  I  [ona — onu 

ONAR  ('Onarr),  the  father  of  Earth  (therefore  a  giant),  i.  158^ 
cf.  S.E.,  i.  32o13 

ONUND  (Onundr),  earl  of  the  Sparbiders  and  father  of  Ketil 
Jamti,  i.  i6219.20,  ii.  2764 

ONUND,  son  of  Eystein  the  Mighty  or  the  Evil,  set  ruler  over 
Isles'-folk  and  Spar-biders-folk,  when  they  were  subdued  by 
Eystein,  slain  by  the  Thrandheimers,  i.  i6i16.21 

ONUND,  a  name  given  to  James  or  Jacob,  son  of  K.  Olaf  the 
Swede,  on  the  day  he  was  elected  king  when  ten  or  twelve 
years  old,  ii.  i65l7.23  (cf.  James) — surrounds  himself  with  a 
bodyguard,  appoints  captains,  etc.,  i6524.28 — remained  joint 
king  of  Sweden  with  his  father  till  the  latter's  death,  i6529-i667 
2ion — enters  an  alliance  with  Olaf  Haraldson  of  Norway, 
offensive  and  defensive,  against  Knut  the  Mighty,  2564-2575 
— resists  King  Knut's  attempts  to  draw  him  from  that  alliance, 
257o-3o — h^s  progress  with  3,000  men  over  West-Gautland  and 
arrangement  with  Olaf  of  Norway  to  have  a  tryst  next  spring 
at  Kings'-Rock,  267lvlt5 — -cordial  meeting  with  Norway's  king 
at  Kings'-Rock — secret  treaty  of  alliance  in  view  of  King 
Knut  of  Denmark's  attitude,  2  6716.21  28-2  686 — return  into 
West  Gautland,  2  686.7 — harries  the  east  coast  of  Skaney 
with  a  large  fleet  at  trie  same  time  that  Olaf  of  Norway  in- 
vades Sealand,  3i212.15 — he  and  Olaf  join  forces,  declare  their 
intention  to  take  Denmark,  and  subdue  wide  tracts  of  that 
realm,  3i215-3i318 — hearing  of  Knut's  arrival  from  the  west 
they  harry  Skaney,  319x8-3204 — battle  at  the  Holy  River,  3205- 
32326 — ne  retifes  from  the  war  with  Knut  after  being  deserted 
by  the  main  body  of  his  fleet,  32309-3254,3  32728-3286 — meets 
K.  Olaf  on  his  return  from  Russia  and  gives  him  cordial  wel- 
come, 3S74.16 — his  somewhat  tardy  aid  to  his  brother-in-law 
for  the  re-conquest  of  Norway,  391^.95 

ONUND,  by-named  ROAD-ONUND"  (Braut-Onundr),  King 
of  Sweden,  son  of  K.  Yngvar,  and  father  of  Ingiald  Evil- 
heart,  avenged  his  father  on  the  Esthonians,  caused  wild 
woodlands  to  be  colonized,  made  roads  throughout  the 
country,  whence  his  by-name,  and  built  royal  manors  in  every 
shire,  i.  547-30-551 — ruled  over  many  shire  or  district  kings, 

557-<>— his  death,  56i5"576 
ONUND,  son  of  Simon  the  son  of  Thorberg,  iii.   37322 — a 
foster-brother  and  follower  of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  3990.12 


ork — ott]  Index  I  161 

— with  Hakon  when  defeated  in  the  battle  of  Tunsberg,  4393.,- 
440j., — takes  an  active  part  in  Hakon's  last  expedition  against 
Erling  Askew,  44i6.n  44225.28  44415.^ — is  one  of  the  chiefs 
who  keep  together  the  following  of  Hakon  after  his  fall,  44715.10 
—(he  joins  the  party  of  Markus  o'  Shaw  and  Sigurd,  the  brother 
of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  and  on  its  dispersion  by  Erling) 
took  to  the  main  sea,  but  turned  to  land  when  opportunity 
offered,  and  robbed  and  slew  Erling's  men,  4595.n — entrapped 
by  Erling  in  a  certain  haven,  he  escapes  and  flies  to  Den- 
mark, 460^-46 1  n 

ORKDALERS,  Orkdale  folk,  men  of  Orkdale  (Orkndcelir, 
Orkdcelir),  inhabitants  of  Orkdale,  in  Thrandheim,  Norway, 
i.  99^  ii.  4724  4898 

ORKNEYINGS  (Orkneyingar),  ii.  i6818 

ORM,  the  son  of  Eilif,  iii.  35 15;  see  Worm,  son  of  Eilif. 

ORM  King's-brother,  iii.  475^  47626;  see  Worm  King's-brother. 

ORNOLF  RIND  (Ornblfr  skorpa),  he  and  others  rob  and 
slay  the  friends  of  Erling  Askew,  iii.  4596.10 — caught  by  Erling 
in  a  certain  harbour  in  the  Wick  he  escapes  and  flees  to 
Denmark,  460,,.,  46i9.10 

OSPAK,  see  Uspak. 

OTTA  (Otta),  i.e.,  Ordulf,  Duke  of  Saxland,  i.e.,  of  Brunswick, 
1062-1073,  married  to  Ulfhild,  d.  of  K.  Olaf  the  Holy,  joins 
K.  Magnus  the  Good,  his  brother-in-law,  with  a  large  follow- 
ing, to  fight  the  Wends  at  Lyrshaw-heath,  iii.  3410.14 — urges 
the  King  to  fight  the  Wends  in  spite  of  their  overwhelming 

odds,  3428-29 

OTTAR  BALLI  ('Ottarr  balli),  the  son  of  Asolf  of  Rein  and 
Thora  d.  of  Skopti,  joins  other  chiefs  of  Thrandheim  in  pro- 
claiming Sigurd,  the  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  king,  iii.  34703  348r 

OTTAR  BRIGHTLING  ('O.  birtingr),  a  bonder's  son,  and  a 
candleswain  at  the  court  of  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  receives 
high  reward  from  the  King  for  fearlessly  rebuking  him  and 
unflinchingly  braving  a  threatened  punishment  for  it,  iii.  288l7- 
29 10 — joins  other  chiefs  in  Thrandheim  in  proclaiming  king 
Sigurd  the  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  347^.3480— his  conciliatory 
reply  to  K.  Ingi's  appeal  to  his  brother  to  share  with  him  in 
due  measure  the  cost  of  safe-guarding  the  peace  of  the  realm, 
359-2j"36ls — married  Queen  Ingirid,  the  widow  of  Harald 
Gilli,  369,5.7 — disliked  by  K.  Sigurd  for  his  leanings  towards 

VI.  M 


1 62  Index  I  [ott — ozu 

his  brother,  K.  Ingi,  369^ — his  fall,  369^9  37712— his  son, 
Alf  the  Ruffian,  369^ 
OTTAR  SWART  ('O.  svarti),  or  the  Black,  the  son  of  a  sister 
of  Sigvat  Thordson,  ii.  i48.29.30 — an  Icel.  poet,  sang  a  song  on 
King  Olaf  the  Holy  (HofirSlausn,  head-ransome),  ii.  518.27 

6l-1483-2-9s  lS%-m  l6l7-25  Ih\5  l87-15  2O30-2I4   29lS-26  28"304  S1^^ 

— a  favoured  court  poet  to  Olaf,  King  of  Sweden,  9i10.20 
i4829.32 — receives  Hialti  Skeggison  with  great  kindness,  and 
together  with  Gizur  the  Swart  introduces  him  to  the  King, 
927-22  94is-i9  as  wel1  as  to  Ingigerd,  the  king's  daughter,  9516.24 
— backs  eagerly  Hialti's  suit  for  the  hand  of  Ingigerd  on  be- 
half of  the  King  of  Norway,  ioi4.10 — he  was  bold  of  speech 
and  fond  of  great  lords,  ioi6.7 — his  song  on  the  overthrow  of 
the  conspiring  Upland  kings  by  Olaf  Haraldson,  io828-io920 
— in  the  year  following  on  the  death  of  King  Olaf  of  Sweden 
he  comes  to  King  Olaf  of  Norway  praying  to  be  allowed  to 
become  his  henchman,  2io9.u — his  drapaon  Knut  the  Mighty 
quoted,  323^ 

OTTAR  VENDILCROW  ('O.  Vendilkraka),  son  of  K.  Egil, 
King  of  Sweden — his  dealings  with  K.  Frodi,  invasion  of 
Denmark,  and  ignominious  end,  i.  473.17  19-48 

OTTAR,  Earl  of  East-Gautland,  falls  in  a  battle  with  Earl 
Hakon  of  Ladir,  i.  25809-259^ 

OTTO  ('Otta),  Bishop,  ( half-)  brother  of  William  the  Bastard, 
accompanies  William  on  his  expedition  to  England,  iii.  i8o23 

OTTO  ('Otta)  II.,  Roman  emperor  (973-983),  invades  Denmark 
to  force  Christianity  on  that  kingdom,  i.  25318.23  255n.18  2565- 
25  74  m9 — peace  concluded  and  the  Danes  and  Earl  Hakon 
of  Ladir's  host  christened,  25729-2589 — reported  to  have  been 
gossip  to  Svein,  the  son  of  Harald,  from  whom  he  parted 
friends,  2  6o3.8 

OTTO  SVEIN,  the  name  that  some  people  say  was  given  by 
Kaisar  Otto  to  Svein  Twibeard  at  his  baptism,  i.  26o8 

OUTER-THRANDHEIMERS  ('Ut>sendir),  i.  i7o2(3  (15  22) 

OZUR  (Ozurr),  Archbishop  of  Lund  in  Skaney,  sends  word  to 
the  people  of  Kings'-Rock  to  be  on  their  guard  against  the 
Wends,  iii.  32  6l7.21 

OZUR,  a  rich  bonder  of  Hising,  speaks  up  for  the  Hising- 
dwellers  at  a  Thing  held  by  Erling  Askew,  iii.  45922-24— Erling 
sets  fire  to  his  house  and  burns  him  therein,  iii.  46o7 


ozu — phi]  Index  I  163 

OZUR,  son  of  Agi,  the  foster-father  of  Thyri,  sister  of  Svein 
Twibeard,  accompanies  her  to  her  forced  marriage  with  King 
Burislaw  in  Wendland,  and  aids  her  in  running  away  from 
her  husband,  i.  349i9"350i3 

OZUR,  the  father  of  Ivar  who  was  taken  prisoner  by  King 
Harald  Gilli's  men,  iii.  323^  26 

OZUR  TOT  (6.  toti),  of  Halogaland,  the  father  of  Gunnhild 
Kings'-mother,  i.  i2  90.s  i3095.9g 

PALNATOKI  (i.e.  T6ki  son  of  Palni),  a  lord  among  the  vikings 
of  Jomsburg,  aids  Svein  Twibeard,  son  of  Harald  Gormson 
in  his  rebellion  against  his  father,  and  fights  with  him  the 
battle  in  which  Harald  came  by  his  death,  i.  2  7o7.17 

PAUL  (Pall),  son  of  Andreas,  charged  with  treason  by  Erling 
Askew,  iii.  \d^Vi 

PAUL,  married  to  a  daughter  of  Aslak  the  son  of  Erling  of 
Soli,  father  of  Hakon  Pungelta,  iii.  3567 

PAUL  FLIP  (P.  flipr),  son  of  Saemund  Housewife  and  of 
Ingibiorg,  d.  of  priest  Andres,  iii.  3252 

PAUL,  son  of  Skopti,  father  of  Nicoal  Periwinkle,  iii.  477-2- 

PAUL,  son  of  Thorfin,  Earl  of  Orkney,  father  to  Hakon  his 
successor  in  the  earldom,  when  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  suc- 
ceeded to  the  kingdom  in  Norway,  iii.  24814.20 — joins  King 
Harald  Hardredy's  expedition  to  England,  166^ — one  of 
those  left  behind  to  guard  the  ships  at  Stamford  Bridge  when 
Harald  marched  out  for  York,  i7o18.20 — arrested  by  King 
Magnus  Barefoot  and  sent  east  to  Norway,  22i10.17 — buried 
in  Biorgvin,  225.^ 

PEACE-FRODI  (FriSfroSi),  see  Frodi. 

PERMS,  inhabitants  of  lands  round  the  White  Sea,  see  Biarms. 

J' I  ITER  (Petr),  the  Apostle,  iii.  307.^ 

PETER  BURDENS  WAIN  (P.  burSarsveinn,  for  the  origin  of 
his  nickname,  cf.  iii.  36i9.n),  son  of  Sheep-Wolf,  father  of  Wolf 
Fly  and  Sigrid,  iii.  io412.13 — one  of  the  chiefs  in  Thrandheim 
who  combined  to  proclaim  Sigurd,  the  son  of  King  Harald 
(lilli,  king  on  the  death  of  his  father,  34703-3483 — carries  the 
Child-King  Sigurd  Haraldson  to  a  Thingmote  at  Nidoyce, 
36 1,,.!, — one  of  the  torturers  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  366^ 

PHILIPPUS,  the  son  of  Seed-Gyrd,  iii.  32933-330!  foster-brother 
of  K.  Sigurd  Mouth,  son  of  Harald,  39i30.31 — outlawed  for 
having  abetted  King  Eystein,  son  of  Harald,  in  acts  of  arson, 


164  Index  I  [phi — rag 

392io-i3 — fights  on  the  side  of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  in  his 
last  battle  with  Erling  Askew,  44i12.13 — makes  peace  with 
Erling  Askew,  but  is  afterwards  slain  by  the  men  of  Earl 
Sigurd  of  Reyr,  45°23-26 

PHILIP,  Earl,  son  of  Earl  Birgir  Brosa  and  Brigida,  d.  of 
King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  37945 

PHILIPPUS  IN  HERDLA,  son  of  Ami  of  Stodreim  and 
Queen  Ingirid,  iii.  37o25 

PHILIPPUS,  the  son  of  Peter,  fights  on  the  side  of  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad  in  his  last  battle  with  Erling  Askew,  iii.  44i19 

POPPO,  missionary  bishop,  converts  Harald  Gormson  to 
Christianity  under  the  asgis  of  the  Roman  Emperor,  i.  2  5722.2S 

QUASI  R  (Kvasir),  the  wisest  of  the  Vanir,  given  in  hostage  to 
the  Asfolk,  i.  i45 

RAGNA,  daughter  of  Nicolas  Mew,  the  wife  of  King  Eystein, 
s.  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  37820-21 — a^ter  System's  death  betrothed 
to  Worm  King's-Brother,  the  son  of  Ivar,  42  625 

RAGNA,  daughter  of  Earl  Worm  Eilifson  and  Sigrid,  the 
daughter  of  Earl  Finn  Arnison,  married  to  Svein,  the  son  of 
Svein  who  was  a  son  of  Erlend  of  Garth;  the  son  of  Svein 
and  Ragna :  Kyrping-Worm,  the  father  of  Erling  Askew,  iii. 

RAGNAR  LODBROK  (R.  LoSbrdk),  i.  8i9— son  of  Sigurd 
Ring,   io524.25  —  his  sons,   conquerors  of  Northumberland, 

I5225-29  233o-6 

RAGNAR  RYCKIL  (R.  rykkill),  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and 
Swanhild,  daughter  of  Eystein,  King  of  Heathmark,  i.  114^ 
— proclaimed  king  by  his  father,  13I20 

RAGNFRID,  i.  24710  read  Ragnhild. 

RAGNFROD  (Ragnfro'Sr),  son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunn- 
hild,  i.  145,3 — flies,  together  with  his  mother  and  Gudrod  his 
brother,  to  the  Orkneys,  when  Hakon,  the  Earl  of  Ladir, 
becomes  Harald  Gormson's  viceroy  of  Western  and  Northern 
Norway,  240^-2415  lV.23  2434.7 — after  one  winter's  stay  he 
goes  back  with  a  war-host  to  Norway  and  has  an  indecisive 
battle  with  Earl  Hakon  in  South-Mere,  24317-24420 — goes 
south  beyond  Stad  and  makes  himself  master  of  Firthland, 
Sogn,  Hordland  and  Rogaland,  24421.31 — loses  a  battle  with 
Hakon  at  Thingness  in  Sogn,  and  flies  away  from  Norway, 
2454-246 


rag]  Index  I  165 

RAGNHILD  (Ragnhildr),  daughter  to  Ami  Arnmodson, 
married  to  Harek  of  Thiotta,  ii.  i9819.20 

RAGNHILU,  d.  of  Day  and  sister  to  '  K.  Ring  the  son  of 
Day,'  who  had  fled  his  land  in  Norway  before  Olaf  Harald- 
son,  consequently  was  one  of  the  five  dispossessed  Upland 
kings,  and  had  taken  up  his  abode  in  Sweden,  from  where 
Red,  Ragnhild's  husband,  states  he  had  run  away  with  her, 

ii-  339810  3404.7  cf.  39218-26  J  ^ 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunnhild,  1.  1457 
— given  in  marriage  to  Arnfinn  Thorfinson,  Earl  of  Orkney, 

I59l4-15 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  Erling  Askew  and  Kristin  King's- 
daughter,  wedded  to  Jon,  the  son  of  Thorberg,  4749-ii 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli  and  Astrid, 
daughter  of  King  Tryggvi  Olafson,  married  to  Thorberg,  son 
of  Ami,  ii.  2426.27  2  8o3.4 — receives  with  open  arms  Stein 
Skaptison  seeking  refuge  at  her  home  after  slaying  one  of 
King  01.  Haraldson's  stewards,  2 8o4-28i13— threatens  her 
husband  to  leave  him  unless  he  protect  Stein  from  the  king's 
wrath,  28i14-28215 — sends  messengers  to  her  father  to  come 
to  her  husband's  aid  with  his  folk,  a  request  promptly  com- 
plied with,  28328-2841 

RAGNHILD,  a  natural  daughter  of  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty  of 
Ladir,  married  to  Skopti,  the  son  of  Skagi,  i.  24710.12 — mother 
to  Earl  Worm  Eilifson,  iii.  io621  37i0.n 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  Harafd  Goldbeard,  King  of  Sogn, 
first  wife  of  Halfdan  the  Black,  with  whom  she  had  a  son 
Harald;  she  died  nine  years  after  her  marriage,  i.  79.10-22 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  given  in 
marriage  to  Harald  Kesia,  son  of  Eric  the  Good,  K.  of  Den- 
mark; their  children,  iii.  28314.17  3541112 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  asked  for  in 
marriage  by  Hakon  Ivarson  as  a  condition  of  peace  with 
Harald  Hardredy,  iii.  H4M — she  refuses  to  marry  an  un- 
titled man,  ii5,0.21— on  the  death  of  Earl  Worm  Hakon  is 
made  earl  and  she  becomes  his  wife,  H9v.13 

RAGNHILD  THE  MIGHTY  (R.  hin  rika),  daughter  of  Eric, 
King  of  Jutland,  one  of  Harald  Hairfair's  wives,  i.  11412-16  28 
— lived  for  three  years  after  she  came  to  Norway,  ii833-ii91 

RAGNHILD,  d.  of  K.  Sigurd  Hart  and  of  Thorny,  d.  of  Klack- 


1 66  Index  I  [rag — ran 

Harald,  K.  of  Jutland,  seized  by  the  bareserk  Haki  when  he 
had  slain  her  father;  marriage  with  her  put  off  pending  the 
healing  of  Haki's  wounds;  but  in  the  meantime  she  is  robbed 
from  Haki  by  the  order  of  K.  Halfdan  the  Black,  who  straight- 
way marries  her,  i.  8i15-839 — her  dream,  &3u.3l — her  son 
Harald  Hairfair,  853.9 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  Skopti  Ogmundson,  married  to  Eilif, 
their  son  Day  father  to  Gregory,  iii.  37716.1S 

RAGNHILD,  daughter  of  Sveinki  the  son  of  Steinar,  married 
to  Kyrping-Worm,  their  sons  Erling  Askew  and  Ogmund 
Hammerer,  iii.  3713.5 

RAGNIR  (Rognir),  one  of  Odin's  names,  i.  256^  iii.  994 

RAKNI,  a  legended  sea-king,  i.  i8221  iii.  9728 

RAM  OF  VIGG  (Hrutr  af  Viggju)",  approaching  the  host  of 
K.  Olaf  at  Sticklestead,  is  slain  by  Olaf  s  orders  by  the 
Guests,  4O910.2s 

RAN  (Ran),  a  goddess,  wife  of  the  sea-god  ^Egir,  i.  298^ 

RANFOLK  (R?enir),  inhabitants  of  Ranrealm,  iii.  37419 

RANI  THE  GAUTLANDER  (Hrani  gauzki),  an  earl  of  the 
Swedish  King  Eric  the  son  of  Eymund,  appointed  to  rule  over 
the  lands  between  Swinesound  and  Gaut-elf  (the  Elf),  which 
Eric  incorporated  in  West  Gautland,  i.  io51!V21 — falls  in  battle 
against  Harald  Hairfair,  no13.ir 

RANI  THIN-NEB  (H.  mjonefr),  father  of  the  mother  of  King 
Sigurd  Syr  (Sow),  ii.  360.3 

RANI  THE  WIDE-FARING  (H.  hinn  vfSfdrli),  also  called 
King's  fosterer  (konungs  f6stri),  ii.  50 — the  son  of  Roi  the 
White,  and  foster-brother  of  Harald  the  Grenlander,  with  whom 
he  flees  from  Grenland  to  the  Uplands  to  (Harald's)  kin,  i. 
2i2n.l7— left  in  command  of  the  ships  of  Harald,  when  he 
was  murdered  by  Sigrid  the  Haughty,  Rani  brings  the  survivors 
and  the  ships  to  Norway  and  tells  Harald's  wife  Asta  the  news 
of  his  death,  28631-2878 — he  gives  fostering  to  Olaf,  son  of 
Harald,  ii.  3r.9 — commands  Olaf's  force  when  he  sets  out  on 
his  viking  warfare,  5-.s  13.10— sent  from  Normandy  by  Olaf 
with  the  charge  of  securing  in  England  the  support  of  the 
people  for  the  sons  of  Ethelred  against  Knut  the  Mighty, 
2  85.16 — his  witty  interpretation  of  King  Olaf's  stumble  on 
landing  in  Norway,  3015.16 

RANVEIG,  daughter  of  Sigurd  son  of  Thorir  Hound,  married 


rau — ric]  Index  I  167 

to  Joan  son  of  Ami,  their  children  Vidkunn  of  Birchisle, 
Sigurd  Hound,  Erling,  and  Jartrud,  iii.  i7n.14 

RAU  D,  see  also  Red. 

RAUD  THE  STRONG  (RauSr  hinn  rammi),  of  God-isle  in 
Salpt-firth  in  Halogaland,  a  wizard  who  had  wind  at  will 
wherever  he  wanted  to  sail,  defeated  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  in 
a  great  sea-battle  in  Halogaland,  whence  he  fled  to  his  home 
in  God-isle,  i.  329^-3307— cruelly  put  to  death  by  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison for  refusing  to  be  a  Christian,  33iu-333io — ms  property 
confiscated  by  Olaf,  333n.26 

RAUMSDALE  (The  folk,  they,  of)  (Raumsdcelir),  inhabitants 
of  the  folkland  of  Raumsdale,  Norway,  i.  i6427  3o822 

RAU M FOLK,  Raumrealm  folk  (Raumar),  the  inhabitants  of 
Raumrealm,  ii.  209^  iii.  154.,  37813 

RAUMI,  father  of  Vakr  of  the^Elf,  i.  3534 

RAZ-BARD  (Raza-BarSr),  a  disaffected  Thrandheimer  charged 
with  treason  by  Erling  Askew,  and  heavily  fined  on  being 
brought  to  book,  iii.  469^ 

REAS,  an  Esthonian,  buys  Olaf  Tryggvison  as  slave  for  a  good 
coat,  i.  22915.16 — sells  Olaf  and  Thorgils  Thorolfson  to  Olaf's 
uncle  Sigurd,  son  of  Eric  Biodaskalli,  2  3o5.r 

RED  (RautSr),  a  Swede  of  high  degree,  a  dweller  in  the  Eastern 
Dales,  married  to  Ragnhild  the  daughter  of  Day,  their  sons 
Day  and  Sigurd,  ii.  3398-34o7 — receives  visit  from  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson,  339.79-31 — gives  the  king  a  stately  feast  and  relates 
his  history,  340^—  sees  the  king  off  with  great  gifts,  34°29-3i 

REIDAR  (Hreiftarr),  base-born  son  of  Erling  Askew,  iii.  474,., 

REINALD,  Bishop  of  Stavanger,  an  Englishman,  charged  by 
Harald  Gilli  with  having  in  his  keep  much  wealth  which  had 
belonged  to  K.  Magnus  the  Blind;  denying  the  charge  Harald 
fines  him  heavily  and  on  his  refusing  to  pay  the  fine,  has  him 
hanged,  iii.  324^ 

REKON,  wife  of  Reas  the  Esthonian,  i.  2  2910.l7 

REKONI,  son  of  Reas  and  his  wife  Rekon,  Esthonians,  i.  22917 

RETTIbUR,  King  of  the  Wends,  i.e.,  Ratibor,  son  of  Mistevin, 
Duke  of  Citerior  Pomerania,  ob.  1 15 1,  his  expedition  to,  and 
siege  of,  Kings'  Rock,  iii.  326^-333. 
RICHARD  (Rikar8r),  a  priest,  fearfully  mutilated  and  mira- 
culously healed  by  Olaf  the  Holy,  iii.  38in-385li; 
RICHARD  I.,  Duke  of  Normandy,  942-996,  son  of  William  I., 


1 68  Index  I  [ric — roa 

Duke  of  Normandy,  927-942,  i.  n827  ii.  2i30.31 — father  to 
Queen  Emma,  hi.  i5515 
RICHARD  II.,  son  of  the  preceding,  Duke  of  Normandy,  996- 
1026,  i.  n827  ii.  2 1 20  30 — the  'father'  of  Queen  Emma,  who 
'  was  the  mother  of  King  Edward,'  is  a  mistaken  statement 
by  Snorri;  he  was  the  brother,  not  the  father  of  the  Queen, 

»i-  }SSw 

RIG  (Rigr),  father  to  Danp,  the  first  who  bore  the  title  of  king 
in  the  tongue  of  the  Danes,  i.  3i14.15 

RIMHILD,  married  to  Knut,  son  of  Svein  of  Jadar,  and  mother 
to  Svein,  iii.  2991G.17 

RING  (Hringr),  son  of  Day,  who  was  the  son  of  Ring,  the  son 
of  Harald  Hairfair,  ii.  34o6.7  39220.23  brother  to  K.  Rcerek, 
whom  Olaf  the  Holy  blinded,  both  of  the  kin  of  Harald 
Hairfair,  joint  kings  of  Heathmark,  ii.  4i20.24 — declares  in 
favour  of  Olaf  Haraldson,  whom  he  urges  the  other  Upland 
kings  to  aid  towards  obtaining  the  over-kingship  of  Norway, 
4328-44ls — joins  the  other  four  Upland  kings  in  a  conspiracy 
against  Olaf  for  his  cruelty  to  heathen  Uplanders,  io318-io6 
— is  laid  hands  on  together  with  his  fellow-conspirators  at 
Ringacre  by  King  Olaf,  who  banished  him  from  the  land  to- 
gether with  two  of  the  Upland  kings,  io88.24 — he  goes  to 
Sweden  and  secures  for  himself  dominion  there,  392<,4.9(} — 
after  taking  up  his  abode  in  Sweden,  his  sister  Ragnhild  runs 
away  from  him  with  Red  of  the  Eastern  Dales,  3399.10  34o6.7 

RING  DAYSON  of  Ringrealm,  father  to  Ashild,  one  of  Harald 
Hairfair's  wives,  i.  H419 

RING,  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Ashild  daughter  of  Ring 
Dayson,  i.  ii420 — made  king  by  his  father,  i3i20 — father  to 
Day,  whose  son  was  King  Ring  of  Heathmark,  whom  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson  drove  away,  ii.  39218.23 

RINGFOLK  (Hringar),  the  inhabitants  of  Ringrealm,  ii.  4134 
iii.  i5419 

ROAD-ONUND,  see  Onund. 

ROALD  (Hrdaldr),  father  of  Thorir  '  hersir  '  the  foster-father  of 
Eric  Blood-axe,  i.  ii93  i2819 

ROALD  LONGTALK  (H.  langtala),  Priest,  sent  by  the 
people  of  Tunsberg  to  obtain  a  truce  for  them  from  Erling 
Askew,  iii.  43924.28 — urges  the  condemnation  of  Earl  Sigurd 
of  Reyr,  45°l'-5" 


roa — rce]  Index  i  169 

ROALDRIG(Roaldand  Rig,i.  1 1  rn  is  a  misprint),  (H.hryggr), 
lord  of  Thelmark,  joined  the  kings  of  Hordland,  Rogaland 
and  Agdir,  and  fought  against  Harald  Hairfair  in  the  battle  of 
Hafurstirth,  from  which  he  apparently  escaped  by  flight,  i. 

IIIn-II2., 

ROBERT  LONGSWORI)  (RoSbert  longumspaSi),  i.e.  R.I., 
the  'Magnificent'  or  ' le  Diable,'  duke  of  Normandy,  1027- 
1035,  son  of  Richard  II.,  996-1026,  nephew  to  Queen  Emma 
and  fatherof  William  the  Conqueror,  i.  n8oSii.  2i.-,4.05iii.  i5514.16 
The  by-name  '  longumspaiSi '  (longspade),  a  mistranslation 
of  '  Longa  spatha '  (longsword)  Snorri  transfers  from  duke 
William  I.  to  his  great-grandson.  The  statement  ii.  2i23.26  that 
while  the  Earls  Eric  and  Svein  sons  of  Hakon,  and  Hakon 
Ericson  ruled  in  Norway,  i.e.  1000- 1 01 5,  there  reigned  in 
Normandy  '  two  Earls,  William  and  Robert,'  is  incorrect, 
during  that  period  there  ruled  in  Normandy  Richard  II. 
alone,  996-1026.  His  brother  Robert  was  Abp  of  Rouen, 
990-1037. 

RODI  (Rofti),  a  legendary  sea-king,  ii.  572s 

RCEREK  (Hrcerekr),  (son  of  Day,  who  was  the  son  of  Ring, 
the  son  of  Harald  Hairfair),  brother  to  K.  Ring,  '  both  of  the 
kin  of  Harald  Hairfair,'  and  joint  kings  over  Heathmark,  ii. 
4 J  20-24 — refuses  to  join  the  four  kings  of  the  Uplands  in  lend- 
ing his  kinsman,  Olaf  Haraldson,  his  aid  towards  obtaining 
the  over-kingship  of  Norway,  4210-4327 — roused  by  Olaf's  mis- 
handling of  heathen  Uplanders,  he  joins  the  other  four  Up- 
land kings  in  a  conspiracy  to  slay  Olaf,  for  which  purpose  they 
kept  assembled  at  Ringacre  in  Heathmark,  103-106 — betrayed 
by  Ketil  of  Ringness,  and  laid  hands  on  at  Ringacre  together 
with  his  fellow-conspirators  by  King  Olaf,  who  had  him  blinded 
and  kept  a  prisoner  at  his  court,  io7-io8.n  *2314.10 — his  un- 
happy stay  at  Olaf's  court  and  plottings  against  Olaf's  men 
and  his  life,  i2314-i26c  9-132 — his  journey  to  Iceland,  stay 
at  Thorgils  Arison's,  at  Gudmund  of  Maddermeads',  at  Calf- 
skin, where  he  died,  i3430- 13633 — 'the  only  king  that  rests 
in  Iceland,'  13633-137!  * 

RCEREK,  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and,  apparently,  Gyda,  the 
daughter  of  King  Eric  of  Hordland,  i.  ii49 — was  kept  at  his 
father's  court,  but  had  large  bailiwicks  about  Hordland  (and 
Sogn  ?)  i3i._,7,„ 


1 70  Index  I  [rog 

ROGALANDERS,  men  of  Rogaland  (Rygir),  inhabitants  of 
the  district  of  Rogaland,  i.  iii4  ii.  2i721  2i8is  4231S  43i19 
hi.  30i21 

ROGER,  King  of  Sicily,  gives  King  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  a 
hearty  welcome  on  his  arrival  in  Sicily — is  given  the  title  of 
King  of  Sicily  by  Sigurd,  2  5512.24— wins  all  Apulia  and  many 
other  islands  in  the  Greekland'main — called  Roger  the  Rich, 

2 5 5 27-30  _.   .,  , 

Roger  II.  bore  the  title  of  Count  of  Sicily,  1 101-1 130 ;  he  was 

crowned  King  of  Sicily  in  n  30  by  the  Antipope  Anacletus 

II.,  he  reigned,  as  K.  Roger  I.,  till  1 1 54.    On  the  death  of  his 

cousin  William,  Roger  secured  the  possession  of  the  dukedom 

of  Apulia,  1 1 27.    At  the  time  of  K.  Sigurd's  visit  in  Sicily, 

1 109,  Roger  was  only  twelve  years  of  age  and  a  ward  of  the 
regent  Count  Robert  of  Burgundy.  This  is  the  Roger  to  which 
our  text  refers  by  mistake.  But  the  Roger  that  entertained  K. 
Sigurd  and  by  him  was  proclaimed  king  on  New  Year's  Day 

1 1 10,  was  Roger  Bursa,  son  of  Rob.  Guiscard  by  a  second 
wife,  Duke  of  Apulia,  who  died  mi.  In  the  '  Man-matching' 
between  Kgs.  Sigurd  and  Eystein  the  Cod.  Frisianus,  2Q41(H2 
makes  Sigurd  say :  '  I  went  to  Jerusalem  and  touched  at 
Apulia  ...  I  gave  the  title  of  king  to  Earl  Roger  the  Mighty ; ' 
Morkinskinna  (1870)  and  Hulda  (Fms.  vii.  i235.6)  have:  'I 
went  to  Jerusalem  and  touched  at  Apulia,'  no  mention  being 
made  of  Sicily.    Cf.  Munch,  N.F.H.,  ii.  579,  note  4. 

ROGNVALD  (Rognvaldr),  one  of  '  five '  kings  who  fell  with 
Eric  Bloodaxe,  i.  i5412 

ROGNVALD  of  yErwick,  commands  in  Svein  Hakonson's 
division  of  Earl  Hakon's  fleet  in  the  battle  of  Hiorungwick 
against  the  Jomsvikings,  i.  2  7721 

ROGNVALD,  son  of  Brusi,  Earl  of  Orkney  101 2-1045,  "• 
i7410 — goes  with  his  father  to  Norway,  179-24-25 — left  at  the 
court  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  when  Brusi  became  the  King's 
Earl  over  Orkney,  i8621.26  187^2 — personal  description,  i872.7 
— accompanies  K.  Olaf  in  his  flight  out  of  Norway,  3693 — 
removes  Harald  Sigurdson  wounded  from  the  battlefield  of 
Sticklestead  to  a  '  bonder '  to  tend  his  wounds,  438m!  hi- 
57i9-2i — sojourned  in  Sweden  for  a  time  after  the  battle  of 
Sticklestead,  589 

ROGNVALD,  son  of  Henry  Halt  and  Queen  Ingirid,  brother 


rog] 


Index  I  171 


of  Worm  King's  Brother  and  of  K.  Magnus  of  Sweden,  iii. 

ROGNVALD  HIGHER-THAN-THE-HILLS  (R.  HeiSum- 
hseri),  King  of  Westfold,  son  of  Olaf  Geirstead-Elf,  i.  321.22 

7  "^ 

ROGNVALD,  son  of  K.  Ingi  of  Sweden,  the  son  of  Steinkel, 
father  to  Ingirid  the  Queen  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  31424-25 

ROGNVALD  KALI,  son  of  Kol  [by  Gunnhild  d.  of  "the  Ork- 
ney Earl  Erlend  Thorfinson],  Earl  of  Orkney,  1135-1158, 
joins  Erling  Askew  on  his  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem,  iii.  37120- 

"2. 1  *Z 

ROGNVALD  KUNTA,  fights  on  the  side  of  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad  in  his  last  encounter  with  Erling  Askew,  and  loses  his 
life,  iii.  44i13  447r, 

ROGNVALD  MERE-EARL  (R.  Masrajarl),  called  the  Mighty 
(hinn  riki),  or  the  keen-counselled  (hinn  ra/3svinni),  son  of 
Eystein  Glumra,  i.  ioo.21..29  ii.  i68r.s — appointed  King's  Earl 
over  North-Mere  and  Raumsdale  after  Har.  Fairhair's  first 
victory  at  Solskel,  i.  ioo21.29 — whereto  was  added  Southmere 
after  Harald's  second  naval  victory  at  Solskel  (see  Arnwid), 
I03n-i2 — ms  winter  expedition  against,  and  burning  in  his 
house  of,  King  Vemund  of  the  Firths,  io316.23 — receives  from 
Harald  Hairfair  as  a  gift  the  Orkneys  and  Shetland,  which 
he  again  gives  to  his  brother  Sigurd,  n61HC  cf.  ii.  i686.s — a 
most  beloved  and  honoured  friend  of  King  Harald,  ii716.18 
—married  Hild,  daughter  of  Rolf  Nefia  and  had  with  her  two 
sons,  Rolf  and  Thorir,  H71S.20  cf.  ii.  21.^-22^ — had  three 
sons,  Hallad,  Einar,  Hrollaug,  by  concubines  before  marry- 
ing, 1 1 7.,0..,.5 — confers  on  Hallad  the  Earldom  of  Orkney  on 
the  death  of  Sigurd,  i2213.16 — Hallad  failing  to  maintain  him- 
self in  the  earldom  Rognvald  gives  it  to  Einar,  whom  he  fits 
out  with  a  longship,  i2  220-i2  36 — burnt  in  his  house  with  sixty 
men  by  Halfdan  Highleg  and  Gudrod  Gleam,  sons  of  Harald 
Hairfair,  124.,.,..^ 

ROGNVALD,  "son  of  Wolf  who  was  the  brother  of  Sigrid 
the  Haughty,  foster-son  of  Thorgnyr,  the  famous  lawman  of 
Tenthland,  ii.  238.12  ii32;i  ii720 — Earl  of  West  Gautland  for  a 
long  time,  ii.  23,, — sues  for  the  hand  of  Ingibiorg,  sister  of  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  i.  356^-35 728 — their  wedding  effected  in  Olaf's 
lifetime,  ii.  237.]f)— sides" with  King  Olaf  Haraldson  against 


172  Index  I  [rog 

the  Swede  King,  through  the  pleading  of  his  wife  Ingibiorg, 
King  Olaf's  cousin,  83-22844— has  a  friendly  meeting  with 
King  Olaf,  from  which  they  part  with  mutual  gifts,  Rognvald 
presenting  the  king  with  a  sword,  844.16— which  sword  King 
Olaf  gave  to  Marshal  Biorn  next  summer,  888.9 — gives  good 
welcome  to  Biorn  as  King  Olaf's  messenger  of  peace  to 
Sweden,  who  brings  him  for  gift  a  ring  from  Olaf,  889.15  2r.2;, 
8910 — holds  a  family  council  with  King  Olaf's  messengers 
and  through  his  wife's  insistence  promises  to  back  them  up, 
^9iu"9x3 — receives  messengers  from  Hialti  Skeggison  and 
Ingigerd,  King  Olaf  the  Swede's  daughter,  with  letters  in- 
forming him  how  matters  relating  to  peace  stood  at  the  court 
of  Sweden,  ioi10.21  ii45.1(j — the  Earl  imparts  the  news  to 
Marshal  Biorn,  ii416.2i — he  goes  with  Biorn  the  Marshal  and 
a  following  of  sixty  men  to  Sweden  and  at  Ulleracre  meets 
Princess  Ingigerd  who  lays  the  matter  of  her  betrothal  to 
King  Olaf  of  Norway  in  his  hands,  ii421-n612 — goes  to  meet 
lawman  Thorgnyr,  who  gives  the  Earl  a  good  welcome  and, 
after  a  while,  promises  to  stand  by  him  so  that  he  may  give 
a  fearless  utterance  in  the  face  of  the  King  to  his  pleading  of 
Olaf  Haraldson's  cause,  n613-u811 — his  attendance  at  the 
Upsala-Thing  and  dealings  there  with  King  Olaf  of  Sweden, 
Ix^7-ii  16-20  TI9i4"I2°9 — through  lawman  Thorgnyr's  interven- 
tion he  settles  peace  between  Norway  and  Sweden,  and  is 
charged  by  the  Swede  King  to  arrange  the  betrothals  of  the 
Princess  Ingigerd  and  Olaf  of  Norway,  i2  2s.is — returns  to 
his  dominion  of  Gautland,  i2  223.24 — arranges  with  Olaf  of 
Norway,  through  Marshal  Biorn,  to  come  east  to  the  Elf  in 
autumn  after  the  Upsala-Thing  to  marry  Ingigerd  of  Sweden, 
i2223-i2313 — his  explanation  of  the  King  of  Sweden's  default 
in  that  matter,  1370(3-138 — he  incurs  heavy  ill-will  of  the 
Swede  King  for  the  disrespectful  treatment  he  received  at  the 
Upsala-Thing,  i3926.30 — he  is  informed  by  Ingigerd  of  Sweden 
that  her  father  has  broken  off  the  intended  match  with  Olaf 
of  Norway,  i425.13 — Earl  Rognvald  warns  his  people  of  Gaut- 
land of  the  unsettled  state  of  affairs,  and  opens  negotiations 
for  peaceful  relations  with  Olaf  of  Norway,  i4214.22 — the  Earl's 
sincerity  towards  King  Olaf  Haraldson  called  in  question  in 
Norway,  i448.u — but  Sigvat  the  Skald  would  reassure  the 
King  of  the  Earl's  fidelity,  and  goes  as  the  King's  ambassador 


rog — rolJ  Index  I  173 

to  the  Earl,  with  whom  he  tarries  long,  and  learns  true  tidings 
from  the  Swedish  Court,  i4415-i4824  1519.21— the  Earl  receives 
a  visit  from  Astrid,  the  daughter  of  the  Swedish  King,  and 
entertains  her  in  a  grand  manner  and,  with  her  consent,  re- 
solves to  give  her  in  marriage  to  King  Olaf,  with  which  plan 
he  sends  Sigvat  back  to  Norway,  1 4804-1 49r—on  knowing 
that  King  Olaf  accepted  the  match,  Earl  Rognvald,  accom- 
panied by  one  hundred  and  twenty  men,  brings  the  bride  to 
Sarpsburg,  where  he  gives  her  away  under  the  terms  of  the 
marriage  contract  of  her  sister  Ingigerd,  and  then  returns  to 
Gautland  with  great  gifts  from  King  Olaf,  15105-1539 — ne 
leaves  Sweden,  in  attendance  on  Queen  Ingigerd,  for  Novgorod, 
and  receives  for  his  maintenance  Aldeigia-burg  and  the  earl- 
dom thereto  appertaining,  i5319.22  24_I548i  r55n-i2 — n*s  sons' 

1 5431-3°  m*   5    °9-30 

ROGNVALD  STRAIGHTLEG  (R.  rettilbeini),  son  of  Harald 
Hairfair  and  Snowfair,  the  daughter  of  Swasi,  i.  i2o3  3i227.28 
— repudiated  by  the  father  after  Snowfair's  death,  i2i3.6 — 
restored  to  favour  by  Thiodolf  of  Hvin,  i2i28-i224—  appointed 
King  of  Hadaland,  i224  I3i20.22 — became  a  great  wizard  and 
was  burnt  in  his  house,  together  with  eighty  wizards,  by  his 
brother,  Eric  Bloodaxe,  i336.8  l7.25 
ROI  SQUINT-EYE  (Hr6i  skialgi)  a  bailiff  of  King  Olaf  the 
Swede  over  the  southern  portion  of  Ranrealm,  a  man  of  high 
degree  and  much  wealth,   ii.    763.7 — goes  with  a  band    of 
armed  men  about  Ranrealm,  gathering  in  taxes  on  behalf  of 
Olaf  the  Swede  King,  and  is  attacked  and  slain  by  Eyvind 
Urochshorn  in  Howesound,  8i10  jq 
ROI  THE  WHITE  (Hr6i  hviti),  ii.'  8il7  =  Roi  Squinteye. 
ROI  THE  WHITE  (H.  hinn  hviti),  a  'landed  man  '  of  Gren- 

land,  foster-father  of  Harald  the  Grenlander,  i.  2i29.n 
ROLF  KRAKI  (Hrolfr  Kraki)  son  of  Helgi,  K.  in  Denmark 
by  his  daughter  Yrsa,  i.   50^ — was  proclaimed  a  king  at 
Hleithra  when  eight  winters  old,  5ou.13— -his  journey  to  Up- 
sala  alluded  to,  5o19.21— (told  at  length  in  S.  E.  i.  394;398)— 
fell  at  Hleithra  in  the  days  of  Eystein  the  son  of  Adils,  5i28 
—a  toast  to  his  memory  drunk  by  Hildigunna,  daughter  of 
King  Granmar,  6oc.7 
ROLF  NEFIA  (H.  nefja),  father  to  Hild  who  wedded  Rognvald 
the  Mere- Earl,  i.  ii719  n812 


174  Index  I  [rol — sax 

ROLF  OF  THE  SHOOTING  (H.  skj6tandi),  ii.  407^ 

ROLF  WEND-AFOOT  (Gongu-hrolfr),  Duke  of  Normandy, 
f93i — son  of  Rognvald  Mere-earl  and  his  lawful  wife  Hild, 
Rolf  Nefia's  daughter,  called  Wend-afoot  because  '  no  horse 
might  bear  him,'  a  great  Viking  who  harried  much  in  the 
Eastlands,  i.  ii720  26-30  c^-  "•  2I32~22i — makes  a  raid  on  the 
Wick,  for  which  Harald  Hairfair  made  him  an  outlaw  from 
Norway  notwithstanding  the  intercession  of  his  mother,  1 1730- 
n819 — went  west-over-sea  to  the  South-isles,  thence  to  Val- 
land,  where  he  won  a  great  earldom  and  peopled  the  land 
with  Northmen,  whence  its  name  Normandy,  n820.25 — of  his 
kin  are  come  the  earls  of  Normandy  and  kings  of  England, 
n826.32  ii.  2  21.7 

ROMAN  FOLK  (Riimverjar),  i.  i59 

RUNOLF  THE  PRIEST  (Run61fr  goSi),  son  of  Wolf,  a  mighty 
chief  in  the  south  of  Iceland  when  Christianity  was  introduced, 

i-  33423 
SEEMING  (Saemingr),  son  of  Odin  and  Skadi,  i.  2o29 — back  to 

him  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty  traced  his  descent,  2i13 
S/EMING,  son  of  Yngvi-Frey,  i.  4n — identical  with  the  preced- 
ing. 
S.FMUND  HOUSEWIFE  (Sajmundr  husfreyja),  ruler  at 
King's  Rock,  married  to  Ingibiorg,  d.  of  priest  Andres 
Brunison,  their  sons  Paul  flip  and  Gunni  fiss,  iii.  324^- 
3253 — has  a  baseborn  son  Asmund,  3253.4  33o13.20 — fights 
and  falls  in  the  siege  of  Kings'  Rock  by  Rettibur,   1135, 

33°13:l<5  33 1 32 

SAXI ;  in  the  phrase  of  Sigvat :  '  The  son  of  mighty  Saxi  Nought 
found  I,'  which  means:  I  did  not  find  the  son  of  mighty  Wolf 
=  I  did  not  find  Earl  Rognvald,  who  was  the  son  of  Wolf, 
the  son  of  Skogul-Tosti,  seems  to  be  either  a  by-name  that 
Wolf  bore,  or  to  be  meant  for  a  poetical  synonym  for  Wolf, 

»•  i47iM8 
SAXI  THE  SPLITTER  (Saxi  flettir,  perhaps  Fletcher,  maker 

of  flint  arrows),  son  of  Bovi  of  West-Gautland,  i.  634.5 
SAXE,  or  Saxe  of  Wick,  father  to  Sigrid,  concubine  of  Magnus 

Barefoot,  iii.    233^3  and  to  Thora  the  mother  of  Sigurd 

Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  33620 
SAXOLF  (Soxolfr),  an  Icelander,  iii.  3541S 
SAXONS  (Saxar,  North-Germans),  i.  2570  26i4  ii.  1273  iii.  3ol7 


sca — sig]  Index  I  175 

SCANINGS,  SKANINGS  (Skanungar),  inhabitants  of  Skaney, 

i.  362ir  ii.  32303  iii.  3i15  4332  453-  47i2  4822 

SCOTCH  (The),  Scotchmen,  Scot-folk,  Scot-host  (Skotar), 
i.  n67  2620  ii.  i692S  iii.  22212  239,, 

SEABEAR  (Saebjom),  father  of  Ami  Stour,  who  was  a  partisan 
of  King  Eystein  Haraldson,  iii.  39310 

SEAL-THORIR,  see  Thorir  Seal. 

SEED-GYRD  (Sa/Sa-Gyr3r),  son  of  Bard,  fosterer  of  Sigurd  the 
son  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  34713 — fails  in  having  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  caught,  35S7.1S — King  Ingi  addresses  a  letter 
to  him  amongst  others,  requesting  that  his  brother  should 
pay  his  share  of  the  cost  of  the  defence  of  the  realm,  35900- 
36ols — unwholesome  relations  arise  between  the  Kings  Ingi 
and  Sigurd  (Harald's  sons)  after  the  death  of  Gyrd,  3773.16 

SERK  OF  SOGN  (Serkr  or  Sogni),  one  of  the  followers  of  King 
Magnus  Barefoot  on  his  warfare  in  Ireland,  iii.  23809  28631 
2877 

SERKMEN  (Serkir),  inhabitants  of  Serkland  =  North- Africa, 
Saracens,  iii.  6314  254,3 

SHAVEHEW  (Skafhogg),  father  of  Gudbrand  who  married 
Maria,  d.  of  K.  Eystein  Magnuson,  iii.  2654  42618  474is 

SHEEP- WOLF  (SauSa  Ulfr),  son  of  Brigida  the  daughter  of 
Wolf,  the  son  of  Uspak,  iii.  io41Mo — Sheep-Wolf's  son  Peter 
Burden-Swain,  io410  36i9.10 

SHETLANDERS  (Hjaltlendingar),  ii.  i8710 

SHIELDING  (Skjoldungr)  descendant  of  Skiold,  King  of  Den- 
mark (Saxo  Gramm.  i.  23-26),  hence  used  by  the  poets  as  a 
synonym  for  prince,  ii.  35716  iii.  3372T 

SHOCK-HEAD  (Ltifa),  Harald  Fairhair's  by-name,  i.   ii23, 

1 1 79-io 
SHOULDER-BROAD,   the   nickname  of   King   Hakon,   its 

origin,  iii.  44731 
SIGAR  (Sigarr),  legendary   king   who   hanged   Hagbard   for 

seducing  his  daughter,  iii.  31923 
SIGAR D  (SigarSr),  a  landed  man,  goes  to  Skurbaga  with  two 

hundred  men  to  fight  the  Wends  besieging  King's  Rock,  and 

is  slain  with  all  his  men,  iii.  33©!.- 
SIGAR'S  FOE,  see  Hagbard. 
SIGFROD  (SigfrdSr)  or  Sigrod  (SigroSr),  son  of  K.  Harald 

Hairfair  and  Asa,  the  daughter  of  Hakon  Griotgard's  son,  i. 


1 76  Index  I  [sig 

no.28 — fostered  first  by  his  grandfather,  Earl  Hakon,  and, 
after  his  death,  by  his  son,  Sigurd,  Earl  of  Hladir,  13721-23 — 
made  king  by  his  father  in  the  Thrandheim  district,  13I39- 
1320 — proclaimed  supreme  king  by  the  Thrandheim  people 
on  the  death  of  his  brother  Halfdan  the  Black,  i42i8-2o — ^s 
contest  with  Eric  Bloodaxe  for  the  supreme  power  in  Thrand- 
heim, alliance  with  K.  Olaf  of  the  Wick,  fight  at  Tunsberg 
and  fall,  1447.25 — his  howe  on  the  brent  east  of  Tunsberg, 

1 4425-2(3 

SI  GRID  (SigrfiSr),  daughter  of  Bard,  sister  to  K.  Ingi  Bardson 
and  Duke  Skuli,  married  to  Jon  Sigurdson  of  Eastort,  iii. 

33605.27 
SIGRID,  daughter  of  Day,  and  sister  to  Gregory  Dayson,  wife 

of  Haldor  Bryniolfson,  illtreated  by  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  iii. 

4 1 9S2"4  2  °2 

SIGRID,  daughter  of  Earl  Finn  Arnison,  married  to  Earl  Worm 

Eilifson,  iii.  11321-23  35T5-t>  37J8-9 

SIGRID  THE  HIGHMINDED,  THE  HAUGHTY  (S. 
st6rra3a),  daughter  of  Skogul-Tosti,  married  to  Eric  Vic- 
torious, King  of  Sweden,  their  son  Olaf  King  of  Sweden,  i. 
2i33.8  2  8412.14  ii.  2  3n.12 — her  dealings  with,  and  murder  of, 
Harald  the  Grenlander,  i.  2  8415-2  8625  2  875.13 — accepts  Olaf 
Tryggvison's  suit,  but  resents  his  present  of  a  ring  supposed 
to  be  all  gold,  but  found  to  be  but  brass  inside,  3io3.29 — the 
suit  broken  off  in  an  insulting  manner  by  Olaf  on  her  refusing 
to  become  a  Christian,  3n24-3i215 — marries  King  Svein 
Twibeard,  their  daughter  Astrid  mother  of  K.  Svein  Wolfson 
of  Denmark,  34828.31  35826.27  iii.  2Q3.10 — her  implacable  hatred 
of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  3i2n:12  3582s-359i— eggs  King  Svein 
on  to  avenge  him  on  Olaf  for  having  married  his  sister  Thyri 
unlawfully,  and  brings  about  his  alliance  with  Olaf  of  Sweden 
and  Eric  the  Earl  against  Tryggvison,  SS9\-n 

SIGRID,  daughter  of  Ketil  Kalf  and  Gunnhild  d.  of  K.  Sigurd 
Syr  (Sow),  (ii.  3527),  wife  of  Eindrid,  the  son  of  Einar  Tham- 
barskelfir,  iii.  io6n 

SIGRID,  daughter  of  Peter  Burden-Swain,  iii.  io413 

SIGRID  S^ETA,  entertained  at  drink  in  her  house  K.  Sigurd, 
son  of  Harald  Gilli,  when  he  was  attacked  and  slain,  iii. 

3893-31 
SIGRID,  daughter  of  Saxi  of  Wick,  '  a  noble  man  in  Thrand- 


sig] 


Index  I  1 77 


heim,'  concubine  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  mother  of  K.  Olaf 
Magnusson,  iii.  233n.14  33621;   and  of  Kari  King's-brother, 

SIGRID  SKIALG'S  daughter,  see  Sigrid  d.  of  Thorolf  Skialg. 

SIGRID,  daughter  of  Earl  Svein,  the  son  of  Hakon,  married  to 
Aslak,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson,  ii.  3314.15  (Gunnhild  is  a  mis- 
take) 2552g  ni-   Io624-26 

SIGRID,  daughter  of  Thorir,  and  sister  to  Thorir  Hound,  first 
married  to  Olvir  of  Eggia,  whom  K.  Olaf  had  slain,  as  well 
as  their  sons  Thorir  and  Griotgarth,  ii.  i98.25.29  34* -,-9  3443-5 
— secondly  wedded  to  Kalf  Arnison,  19809-1993 — bewailing 
the  troubles  she  had  had  to  endure  at  K.  Olaf's  hands,  she 
prevails  upon  her  husband  to  join  K.  Olaf's  enemies,  Earl 
Hakon  Ericson  and  K.  Knut,  under  certain  conditions,  and 
informs  Hakon  of  her  endeavours,  3748.31 

SIGRID  (SigrrSr),  daughter  of  Thorolf  Skialg  and  sister  to 
Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli,  married  to  Sigurd  Thorison,  brother 
of  Thorir  Hound,  their  son  Asbiorn  Seal's-Bane,  ii.  2i4I8.22 
2 1 718.19 — her  vain  endeavours  to  bring  her  son  to  saving  habits 
in  seasons  of  distress,  2i519.20  27.28 — her  egging  on  of  Thorir 
Hound,  her  brother-in-law,  to  avenge  the  slaying  of  her  son, 
Asbiorn,  239^-2404 

SIGTRYGG  (Sigtryggr),  a  noble  of  Nerick  in  Sweden,  befriends 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson  in  his  flight  from  Norway,  ii.  36920.23 

SIGTRYGG,  son  of  King  Eystein  the  Terrible  of  the  Uplands, 
King  of  Heathmarkand  Raumrealm,  i.  7722-24 — on  hearing  of 
Halfdan  the  Black  having  conquered  Raumrealm,  he  goes  out 
to  fight  him,  and  is  defeated  and  slain,  7721-784 

SIGTRYGG,  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and,  apparently,  Gyda, 
daughter  of  Eric  King  of  Hordland,  i.  H410 — proclaimed 
king  by  his  father,  i3i18 

SIGTRYGG,  King  of  Vendil,  father  of  Agnar,  the  father  of  Eric 
King  of  Westfold,  i.  6821 

SIGURD  (Sigur^r),  Olaf  Tryggvison's  court  bishop  (who  had 
come  with  him  from  England),  with  the  king  at  Ogvalds- 
ness,  i.  31 5-21-23 — accompanies  Olaf  on  his  missionary  expedi- 
tion to  Halogaland,  3283-3349 — his  way  of  defeating  Raud 
the  Strong's  witchcraft,  33i26-332i8 

SIGURD,  court  bishop  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  accompanies  the 
king  on  his  missionary  journey  through  Gudbrandsdale,  ii. 

VI.  N 


178  Index  I  [sig 

2024.8  2o52.2-2o63  2o831-2091 — commands  King  Olaf  to  make 
peace  with  Erling  Skialgson  in  the  affair  of  Asbiorn  Seal's- 
bane,  and  dictates  the  terms,  2  2  915.29 
SIGURD,  a  bishop  appointed  to  Earl  Hakon  Ericson's  court 
by  his  uncle  K.  Knut,  a  great  enemy  of  K.  Olaf  the  Holy, 
ii.  4i716.24 — his  inflammatory  speech  against  K.  Olaf,  4183- 
4i924 — Thorgils  of  Sticklestead  delivers  to  him  the  coffin 
containing  the  body  of  Olaf  the  Holy — which  body,  however, 
was  but  a  collection  of  stones — and  by  the  bishop's  orders 
the  coffin  is  sunk  into  deep  water  in  Thrandheim  firth,  448n.21 
— as  the  belief  in  Olaf's  holiness  takes  hold  of  the  people, 
the  bishop's  unpopularity  increases  so  that  he  must  leave 

Norway,  453i9-4544 
SIGURD,  a  priest,  afterwards  bishop  in  Biorgvin,  present  with 
Bishop  Magni  when  he  forbade  King  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer 
to  contract  marriage  with  the  lady  Cecilia,  his  queen  being 

yet  alive,  iii.  30711-12  2932  3o85-s 
SIGURD,  one  of  '  five '  kings  who  fell  with  Eric  Bloodaxe,  i. 

J54l2 

SIGURD  BAITHAT  (S.  agnhottr),  the  fosterer  of  Olaf  Un- 
lucky, gathers  with  his  foster-son  a  band  in  the  Uplands 
against  K.  Magnus  Erlingson,  iii.  474l7.27 — Erling  Askew  goes 
in  search  of  them,  474^-4754 — Sigurd  falls  in  the  battle  at 
Stangs,  477l7 

SIGURD,  son  of  Bergthor,  a  priest  from  Iceland,  falls  in  the 
battle  at  Holm-the-Grey,  iii.  36239 

SIGURD  BILL  (S.  bildr),  stationed  in  the  forehold  on  board 
the  Long- Worm,  i.  35318.19 

SIGURD,  base-born  son  of  Bui  the  Thick,  i.  28i30-2829 

SIGURD  A-BUSH  (S.  hrisi),  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and  Snow- 
fair,  Swasi's  daughter,  i.  i2o2 — repudiated  by  his  father  after 
Snowfair's  death,  i2i3.6 — restored  to  favour  through  Thiodolf 
of  Hvin  and  assigned  residence  in  Ringrealm,  i2i28-i2  24 — 
proclaimed  King  of  Ringrealm  by  his  father,  i2  23  i3i20.22 — 
his  son  Halfdan  father  to  Sigurd  Syr,  311^ 

SIGURD  CAPE  (S.  kapa),  a  follower  of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad, 
iii.  44 1 13— slain,  4475 

SIGURD,  son  of  Eric  Biodaskalli,  and  brother  to  Astrid,  the 
mother  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  long  in  King  Valdimar's  service 
in  Garthrealm,  i.  22826.31 — finds,  on  a  taxgathering  expedition 


sig] 


Index  I  1 79 


in  Estland,  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  a  slave  market,  and  buys  him 
and  his  companion  Thorgils  from  their  master  Reas  and  brings 
them  with  him  to  Holmgarth,  22903-230,, — saves  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison from  the  penalty  of  his  first  manslaughter,  230^,-2 3  i21 
— a  noble  man  and  a  wealthy,  3oi9.12 — the  by-name  in  the 
text,  'Carlshead'  (KarlshofuS),  is  a  mistake;  it  was  a  name 
borne  by  one  of  Sigurd's  brothers.  Cf.  Olaf's  saga  by  Odd, 
Fms.  and  Flat. 

SIGURD  CAUL  (S.  hjiipa),  a  follower  of  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad,  iii.  44i13 — slain,  4475 

SIGURD  of  Eastort,  son  of  Kari  King's-brother  and  Borghild 
daughter  of  Day  Eilifson;  Sigurd's  sons:  Jon  of  Eastort, 
Thorstein  and  Andres,  iii.  33622.27 

SIGURD,  base-born  son  of  Erling  Askew  by  Asa  the  Light, 
iii.  4747.s 

SIGURD,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli  and  Astrid,  daughter 
of  King  Tryggvi  Olafson,  ii.  2426 — goes  in  a  craft  of  twenty 
benches  to  aid  his  brother-in-law  Thorberg  against  Olaf 
Haraldson,  in  the  affair  of  Stein  Skaptison,  28303-2843  18.20 
28621.22 

SIGURD,  son  of  Eystein  Glumra,  and  brother  to  Rognvald 
Mere-Earl,  receives  Orkney  and  Shetland  as  gift  from  his 
brother,  and  is  confirmed  in  the  Earldom  of  Orkney  by  Harald 
Hairfair,  i.  n614.18  cf.  ii.  i686.s — harries  Scotland  in  company 
with  Thorstein  the  Red,  n6is.2., — his  death  and  burial-place, 
ii622.28  (i2  212). 

SIGURD,  son  of  Eystein  Travail,  one  of  the  slayers  of  Sigurd 
Gaud-axe  of  King  Ingi's  bodyguard,  iii.  387^ 

SIGURD  GAUD- AXE  (S.  sknftShyrna),  one  of  K.  Ingi  Harald- 
son's  bodyguard,  slain  by  two  of  K.  Sigurd  his  brother's 
bodyguards,  iii.  387^ 

SIGURD,  son  of  Gudrun  of  Saltness,  joins  the  band  raised  by 
K.  Eystein  Maiden  the  son  of  Eystein,  iii.  483.,,; 

SIGURD  Gyrdson,  a  landed  man,  goes  to  Skurbaga  with  six 
hundred  men  to  fight  the  Wends  besieging  Kings'  Rock,  but 
returns  without  venturing  a  battle,  iii.  32933-3304 

SIGURD,  son  of  Earl  Hakon  Griotgardson,  after  his  father 
Earl  of  Ladir,  i.  i37li;.iy— -was  from  his  father's  death  the 
fosterer  of  Halfdan  the  Black,  and  of  Sigfrod,  sons  of  K. 
Har.    Hairfair,    i37n.o3 — married   Bergliot,   the   daughter  of 


180  Index  I  [sig 

Earl  Thorir  the  Silent,  and  of  Alof  Year's-heal,  d.  of  Har. 
Hairfair,  and  was  the  wisest  of  men,  13724.07  I49i5-io — as  ne 
is  bringing  on  board  his  ship  to  King  Hairfair  Thora  Most- 
staff,  she  gives  birth  to  a  son,  Hairfair's  youngest  child,  whom 
Sigurd  baptizes  to  the  name  of  his  own  father,  Hakon,  i3815.20 
— he  adopts  K.  Hakon's  cause,  when  he  comes  back  from 
England  to  claim  the  throne  of  Norway,  149^-1507 — appointed 
by  K.  Hakon  earl  over  all  Thrandheim,  1 5 61.3— assists  K. 
Hakon  in  framing  the  Frosta-Thing's  Law,  i6o.28.30 — was  King 
Hakon's  dearest  friend,  i6im3 — a  man  much  given  to  blood- 
offerings,  i655.9 — entertained  at  his  own  cost  all  worshippers 
at  a  sacrificial  feast  at  Ladir,  i664.l7 — mediates  peace  between 
K.  Hakon  the  Good  and  the  assembled  men  of  Frosta-Thing, 
who  refused  to  be  converted  to  Christianity,  i681M7  18.29 — 
acts  in  a  like  manner  between  the  king  and  his  heathen  sub- 
jects in  the  matter  of  blood-offerings,  i694-i7i19 — fights  with 
K.  Hakon  the  Good  against  Eric's  sons  at  Ogvaldsness,  1 725.30 
— terms  of  peace  arranged  between  him  and  Eric's  sons  after 
the  fall  of  Hakon  the  Good,  i9915.23 — his  rule  over  Thrand- 
heim the  cause  of  deadly  hatred  on  the  part  of  Gunnhild  and 
her  sons,  20218-20312- — receives  friendly  gifts  from,  and  a  kind 
invitation  to  come  on  a  visit  to,  Harald  Greycloak,  but  declines 
the  invitation,  20323-2044 — his  life  plotted  against  by  K.  Harald 
Greycloak  and  Griotgarth,  Sigurd's  own  brother,  2044.28 — 
burnt  in  his  house  at  Oglo  by  Harald  and  Erling,  in  company 
with  Griotgarth,  two  winters  after  the  fall  of  Hakon  the  Good, 
2o53.20  2o67.8 — date  of  his  death,  23925.27 
SIGURD,  Earl,  son  of  Hallward  Freeholder  of  Reyr,  a  follower 
of  Hakon  Shoulder-Broad,  hi.  39910  4ool7  407,3 — speech  to 
Hakon's  host  before  the  battle  in  the  Elf,  4o810-4O921 — Hakon, 
being  defeated,  Gregory  Dayson  obtains  King  Ingi's  pardon 
for  Sigurd,  41526-20 — escapes  with  Hakon  from  Gregory's 
attack  on  them  at  Saur-Byes,  4i93.25— he  and  Hakon  burn 
Vettland,  slaying  Haldor  Bryniolfson  and  mishandling  the 
household,  419^-4205 — created  Earl  by  Hakon,  43822.23 — 
sent  to  Kings'  Rock  by  Hakon  to  defend  it  against  Erling, 
43826-4394 — erwied  by  Hakon's  followers,  439^-4402 — sails 
by  the  deep  sea  course  to  meet  King  Hakon  at  Thrandheim, 
44°24-26 — §oes  soutn  with  him  to  fight  Erling  Askew,  44i10 — 
sent  by  King  Hakon  into  Raumsdale  to  gather  up  men  and 


sig] 


Index  I  181 


ships,  442.,6.2S— keeps  the  band  of  Hakon  together  after  his 
death ;  leave's  his  ships  in  Raumsdale  and  fares  to  the  Up- 
lands, 44715.18 — n*s  means  run  short,  44809-4490— condemned 
'to  the  devil'  at  a  formal  Thing,  449i«r45°5— 8oes  with  the 
flower  of  his  host  about  the  Wick;  some  of  his  men  seek 
truce  privily  from  Erling,  4509-15 — his  men  sla>'  PhuiPpus 
the  son  of  Gyrd  who  had  made  peace  with  Erling,  45°23-26 — 
goes  with  his  host  to  Re,  where  he  is  set  upon  and  slain  by 

Erling,  45Iisf455i2  .        .         ,  L        .  .  .  .   ,       , 

SIGURD,  a  Halogalander,  imprisoned  together  with  his  brother 
Hawk  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  for  refusing  to  be  christened; 
they  vanish  from  prison,  and  turn  up  at  Harek's  in  Thiotta, 
whom,  by  a  ruse,  they  kidnap  and  bring  into  Olaf 's  power,  i. 
3243-326^ — thereupon  Sigurd  is  christened  and  becomes  the 
king's  servant,  32  74.6 
SIGURD  HART  (S.  hjortr),  King  of  Ringrealm,  son  of  Helgi 
the  Keen  and  Aslaug,  daughter  of  Sigurd  Worm-in-Eye — slew 
Hildibrand  with  other  twelve  bareserks,  when  twelve  years  of 
age,  i.  8i4.14 — had  two  children,  Ragnhild  and   Guthorm, 
8i1418 — his  fight  with  the  bareserk  Haki,  and  death,  8i18.29 
SIGURD  MOUTH  (S.  munnr),  King  of  Norway,  1136-1155, 
baseborn  son  of  Harald  Gilli  by  Thora,  daughter  of  Guthorm 
Greybeard,  Hi.  31422-23 — fostered  north  in  Thrandheim  with 
Seed-Gyrd,  son  of  Bard,  347^— proclaimed  king  at  the  re- 
quest of  Queen  Ingirid,  347*11  348m!— he  and  Seed-Gyrd 
fail  to  catch  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  3 5 8r.18— receives  formal 
request  from  his  brother  Ingi  to  bear  his  share  of  the  cost  of 
defending  the  realm,  359o2-36o18 — he  accedes  to  the  request 
and  they  join  company,  36in.21 — both  brothers  defeat  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  at  Holm-the-Gray,  where  Magnus  the  Blind 
is  slain,  36io8-36315 — after  ruling  jointly  for  six  years,  he  and 
Ingi  share  the  kingdom  with  their  brother  Eystein,  3683.^— 
hates  Ottar  Brightling  for  his  kindness  towards  K.  Ingi;  is 
suspected  of  having  caused  Ottar's  death,  of  which  charge 
he  promises  to  clear  himself  by  ordeal,  which  he  never  per- 
forms, 36910.12  37or.15 — has  a  son,  Hakon  (Shoulderbroad), 
by  Thora,  a  workwoman  of  Simon  Thorbergson,  3733.04 — he 
and  Ingi  set  up  separate  court  each  for  himself,  377G.1(1 — 
Sigurd's   character    and    appearance,    37  727"37^ir, — Sigurd's 
violence  gets  him  into  trouble  with  Eystein,  his  brother,  but 


1 82  Index  I  [sig 

they  make  up  their  quarrel  by  agreeing  to  depose  their  crippled 
brother  Ingi,  38519-3864 — failure  of  the  plan,  K.  Sigurd's  fall, 
386s-39o7— his  burial  place,  39o7.s 

SIGURD  HOUND  (hundr),  son  of  Joan  the  son  of  Ami  and 
Ranveig  the  daughter  of  Sigurd  son  of  Thorir  Hound,  iii. 
1 7 10-14 — outlawed  by  Magnus  Barefoot,  2429.10 

SIGURD  HRANISON,  married  to  Skialdvor,  the  daughter  of 
Bryniolf  Camel  and  Thora  the  mother  of  K.  Magnus  Bare- 
foot, their  son  Nicolas,  iii.  48i9.13 — a  follower  of  King  Magnus 
Barefoot  in  his  warfare  in  Ireland,  23835, — one  of  the  last  to 
flee  after  the  fall  of  the  king,  24222 — his  contest  at  law  with 
K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  (brother  of  his  wife),  or  '  the  Tale 
of  the  Things,'  271^-276 

SIGURD  JERUSALEM-FARER  (Crusader)  (S.  jorsalafari), 
King  of  Norway,  1103-1130,  natural  s.  of  K.  Magnus  Bare- 
foot and  Thora,  iii.  2339.u — marries:  1.  Biadmynia,  d.  of  K. 
Myrkiartan  of  Connaught,  2  2520.21:  2.  Malmfrid,  d.  of  K. 
Harald  Valdemarson  of  Holmgarth  and  Kristin,  d.  of  Ingi, 
K.  of  Sweden,  2  7o28.30  2  7i2.4;  their  daughter  Kristin,  wife  of 
Erling  Askew,  37 i13:  3.  Cecilia,  307-309,5 — has  by  Borghild, 
d.  of  Olaf  O'Dale,  a  son,  Magnus  (the  Blind),  2  7820.25 

Is  appointed  lord  of  the  Orkneys  by  his  father,  22i16.19 — 
hearing  of  his  father's  death,  he  leaves  the  Orkneys  for  his 
kingdom  in  Norway,  24229.33 — he  succeeds,  at  the  age  of 
thirteen  or  fourteen,  to  one  third  of  the  realm  against  his 
brothers  Eystein  and  Olaf,  2476.14 — he  leaves  Biadmynia  be- 
hind in  the  west,  24714.16 — puts  himself  at  the  head  of  a 
company  of  Norwegian  adventurers  bound  for  Jerusalem, 
24722-248n — the  expedition,  consisting  of  sixty  ships,  starts 
four"years  after  the  fall  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  248.^-249,. — 
the  story  of  the  crusade,  2497-26133 — the  return  journey,  26i26- 
26227 — K.  Sigurd's  person  and  character,  26724.31 — with  his 
brothers  he  removes  many  of  the  burdens  which  K.  Svein, 
'son  of  Alfiva,'  had  imposed  upon  the  people,  2683.7 — his 
dream  foretelling  the  duration  of  the  reign  of  each  of  the 
three  brothers  interpreted  to  him  by  K.  Eystein,  26810-27o25 
— his  contest  at  law  with  Sigurd  Hranison,  '  the  Tale  of  the 
Things,'  27i15-27625 — coolness  between  him  and  his  brother 
Eystein  in  consequence  of  the  latter's  advocacy  of  Sigurd 
Hranison's  cause,  27 626.28 — on  the  death  of  K.  Olaf,  Ks.  Sigurd 


sig]  Index  I  183 

and  Eystein  share  the  kingdom  by  halves,  2778.12— they  re- 
side alternately  in  the  north  or  in  the  south,  2  7715.30 — K. 
Sigurd  takes  great  interest  in  making  Kings'  Rock  a  strong 
and  wealthy  place,  278^  309^-3  io3— his  dealings  with  Borg- 
hild,  d.  of  Olaf  o'Dale,  27814.29 — 'Man-matching'  between 
him  and  Eystein,  2793-2833 — having  a  bath  at  a  feast  in  the 
Uplands,  he  shows  symptoms  of  mental  derangement,  283^3 
— after  the  death  of  K.  Eystein,   Sigurd  sole  king  in   the 
land,  28414.16 — his  negotiations  with  K.  Nicolas  of  Denmark 
in  respect  of  conversion  to  Christianity  of  the  Smallands 
in   Sweden,    the    '  Kalmar    Hosting,'  284^-285— K.  Sigurd 
and  Thorarin  Curtfell,  2  86-2  88u— K.  Sigurd's  fit  of  madness 
one  Whitsunday,  28817-28912— how  the  King  rewarded  the 
candle  page  Ottar  Brightling  for  bringing  him  to  his  senses, 
289^-29 1(, — his  dream  foreboding  the  arrival  of  the  pretender, 
Harald  Gilli,  and  the  founding  of  his  dynasty,  2919-292^ — 
K.  Sigurd  in  a  fit  of  mental  derangement  corrected  by  Aslak 
Cock,  29218-29418 — another  fit  on  Yule  Eve,  29421-29513 — 
K.  Sigurd  allows  Harald  Gilli  to  prove  by  ordeal  that  he  was 
the  son  of  Magnus  Barefoot,  295^-296^ — the  ordeal  being 
a  success,  K.  Sigurd  acknowledges  Harald  as  his  brother, 
2962o-2i — causes  his  son,  Magnus,  to  be  sworn  king  in  succes- 
sion to  himself,  2 9623.2V— rebukes  Magnus  for  his  animosity 
against  Harald,  298^-2993 — K.  Sigurd's  swimming  contest 
with  an  Icelander,  299ir3oo14 — his  dealings  with  his  landed 
man  Sigurd  Sigurdson,  2993^300^  3oi12-3025 — saves  Har. 
Gilli  from  the  gallows,  and  outlaws  his  would-be  executioner, 
Svein  Rimhildson,  3oi1Q-3022 — in  defiance  of  the  Church  he 
marries  the  lady  Cecilia  without  his  marriage  with  queen 
Malmfrid  being  dissolved,  307-309,5 — he  takes  much  interest 
in  strengthening  and  enriching  the  town  of  King's  Rock, 
3O910-3io3 — his  death,  burial  place,  length   of  reign,   etc., 

3ICVi8  .       , 

SIGURD  KOLBEINSON,  brother  to  Bentein  who  was  slain 

by  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  3564 — tortures  Sigurd  Slembi- 
I  )eacon  to  death,  366g.23 
SIGURD,  son  of  Red  in  the  Eastern  Dales,  ii.  33910 — is  ac- 
cused by  Biorn  the  Steward  of  theft,  33824-33925 — summoned 
to  King  Olaf  and  declared  free  of  the  charges  brought  against 
him  by  Biorn,  33925.28 — declares  his  accomplishments  to  the 


184  Index  I  [sig 

King,  who  tests  them  and  finds  Sigurd's  declaration  to  be 
correct,  34o10.14 — informs  the  king  that  Biorn  himself  is  the 
person  guilty  of  the  crime  he  charges  on  others,  which  turns 
out  to  be  true,  34oO0.33 

SIGURD  RING  (S.'hringr),  father  to  Ragnar  Lodbrok,  King 
of  Raumrealm  and  Westfold,  Vingulmark  '  and  thenceaway 
south,'  i.  io5.H.o7 

SIGURD  SCRIP  (S.  hit),  a  whilom  banner-bearer  of  K.  Rcerek 
the  son  of  Day,  rescues  him  from  imprisonment  at  King  Olaf's 
court,  ii.  1283.9  but  being  overtaken  by  Olaf's  men,  leaves  the 
blind  Rcerek  to  his  fate  and  saves  himself  with  his  followers 
by  flight,  i3o6.20 

SIGURD  SIGURDSON,  a  landed  man  of  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer,  rescues  from  the  king  a  swimmer  and  forfeits  the  king's 
favour,  iii.  2993^300^ — regains  the  king's  favour  by  giving 
him  a  timely  warning  that  Harald  Gilli  was  in  imminent  peril 
of  being  hanged,  3oiir3025 — advises  King  Magnus  the  Blind 
in  vain  to  keep  his  war  host  in  the  Wick  after  the  battle  of 
Fyrileif,  3i88.12 — King  Magnus  refusing  to  listen  to  all  his 
proposals  as  to  how  to  deal  with  Harald  Gilli,  he  leaves  him 
to  his  own  devices,  320^32 122 

SIGURD,  son  of  King  Sigurd  the  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  and 
brother  to  K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  fostered  by  Markus 
O'Shaw,  taken  to  king  by  the  Uplanders,  iii.  448s.-u — is  sup- 
ported by  a  large  following  led  by  Markus  and  Earl  Sigurd 
of  Reyr,  44814.19  29-4492 — he  and  Markus  are  attacked  by 
Erling  Askew  at  Kings'  Rock  and  Hisingisle  and  driven  off 
into  the  upland  forests,  45S19-45610 — from  there  they  march 
overland  to  Thrandheim,  where  Sigurd  is  taken  for  king  at 
the  Eres'  Thing,  45713.19 — they  gather  a  fleet,  go  south  to 
Mere,  where  they  lay  hold  of  all  the  king's  dues,  then  pro- 
ceed south  unto  Listi,  where  they  turn  northward  again  on 
hearing  that  Erling  had  a  strong  naval  force  in  the  Wick, 
45720-24  29"45^i5~"makmg  f°r  Biorgvin  they  are  attacked  by 
Erling's  lieutenants  and  slain,  4S816-4592 

SIGURD  SLAVER  (S.  slefa),  son  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  and  Gunn- 
hild,  i.  i457 — together  with  his  brother  Gudrod  he  was  left 
by  Harald  Greyfell  in  occupation  of  Thrandheim,  when  Earl 
Hakon  was  ousted  therefrom,  2i44.s — but  in  autumn  they 
had  to  clear  out  of  Thrandheim  before  Hakon;  spent  the 


sig]  Index  I  1 85 

winter  in  the  Mere,  2i414_2g — dishonours  the  wife  of  Klypp 
the  Hersir,  wherefore  the"  hersir  slays  him  at  Alrekstead, 

2T5l9-24  3(f2l612  3°3l'9 

SIGURD  SLEMBI-DEACON  (S.  slembidjakn),  'called  the 
son  of  Priest  Adalbrikt,'  but  declared  by  his  mother,  Thora 
the  d.  of  Saxi  of  Wick,  to  be  the  son  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot, 
iii.  336^..,!  3377-s — he  and  his  followers  averred  that  he  had 
proved  by  ordeal  in  Denmark  that  he  was  the  son  of  K.  Mag- 
nus Barefoot,  a  discredited  story,  33720.33  338^0— his  person 
and  character,  336^-33 70— his  foreign  travels,  3370.20 — his 
stay  and  doings  in  Iceland,  3384-339 — escapes  treason  laid 
against  his  life  by  Harald  Gilli,  340-34 1.,3 — organizes  a  con- 
spiracy against  K.  Harald  and  slays  him  in  his  bed,  34i2S- 
34314 — his  demand  to  be  proclaimed  king  angrily  refused,  he 
and  his  followers  declared  outlaws,  343u-3444 — he  is  pro- 
claimed king  by  the  bonders  of  North-Hordland  and  those 
of  Sogn  and  the  Firths,  344,-,.21 — he  is  repudiated  by  North- 
mere  and  Thrandheim,  takes  the  maimed  and  blinded  King 
Magnus  out  of  his  monastery  and  goes  with  his  following 
south  to  Northmere  and  Raumsdale  and  there  parts  from 
Magnus  and  goes  west  over  sea,  348^349^ — returns  from 
the  west  to  Norway,  whence  speedily  he  makes  for  Denmark, 
where  he  has  some  successful  fighting  with  Wendish  vikings, 
35327-3547 — his  adventures  in  the  Elf,  at  Kings'  Rock  and 
about  the  Wick,  3547.33 — goes  to  Denmark,  3555.n — raids 
the  district  of  Listi  in  company  with  Magnus  the  Blind,  and 
is  chased  away  by  K.  Ingi  Haraldson  and  flees  to  Halogaland, 
where  he  winters,  355n"357i7 — marauding  in  Halogaland  and 
Northmere,  35718-35818 — robs  in  Hordland  and  drifts  south 
along  the  land  into  the  Wick,  working  havoc  on  K.  Ingi's 
folk,  and  sets  thence  once  more  out  for  Denmark,  35810-35910 
— returns  to  Norway  next  spring  in  company  with  K.  Magnus 
and,  with  a  fleet  of  thirty  sail,  fights  with  Kings  Ingi  and 
Sigurd  at  Holm-the-Gray,  where  he  is  defeated,  laid  hands  on 
and  tormented  to  death,  36124-367 — his  body  fetched  by 
Danish  friends  of  his  and  buried  at  Mary  Church  in  Alaburg 
in  Jutland,  367^ 

SIGURD  STORK  (S.  storkr),  son  of  Eindrid  of  Gautdale,  a 
partisan  of  Sigurd  Slembi-deacon,  iii.  356^ — has  a  son,  Jon 
Kutiza,  437l'i-22 


1 86  Index  I  [sig 

SIGURD  SYR,  or  Sow  (S.  syr),  King  of  Ringrealm,  son  of  Half- 
dan  the  son  of  Sigurd  a-Bush  the  son  of  Harald  Hairfair,  i. 
63 — married  Asta  the  widow  of  Harald  the  Grenlander  and 
mother  to  Olaf  the  Holy,  i.  31 13.8 — lets  himself  with  wife  and 
Olaf  his  stepson  be  christened  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  3ii12.l7 
— he  brings  up  Olaf  the  Thick,  his  stepson,  ii.  35.7 — is  held 
of  little  account  by  Olaf,  319-4n — his  household  ways,  312.16 
— his  ordinary  arrayal  and  business  relating  to  husbandry, 
353-25 — ms  children,  3526.28  24815 — his  reception  of  Olaf 
Haraldson  on  his  return  to  Norway  from  his  viking  raids 
abroad,  344-3718 — his  state  arrayal,  362l.29 — partakes  in  a 
family  council  together  with  his  wife  at  which  Olaf  declares 
his  intention  to  fight  for  the  kingdom  of  Norway,  3721-4i12 — 
his  speech  on  the  occasion,  3904-4O33 — his  manner  of  enter- 
taining Olaf  and  his  company,  4i14.l7 — his  pleading  on  behalf 
of  Olaf  to  the  folk-kings  of  the  Uplands,  4i.20-4210 — joins 
Olaf  with  a  large  following  against  Earl  Svein  and  Einar 
Thambarskelfir,  5412.13—  partakes  in  the  battle  off  Nesiar  and 
unavailingly  advises  King  Olaf,  on  the  flight  of  Earl  Svein,  to 
follow  up  his  victory  and  undo  the  Earl  utterly,  6227.63s — 
receives  good  gifts  from  Olaf  at  their  parting,  645.6 — his  death 
(1018),  ioq27 

SIGURD  THE  THICK  (S.  digri),  son  of  Hlodver,  earl  of 
Orkney,  restored  to  the  people  of  Orkney  the  '  odal '  rights 
they  had  given  up  to  Turf-Einar,  i.  i27.21-i281  cf.  ii.  i6912.14 — ■ 
made  prisoner  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  Rognvaldsey;  set  free  on 
allowing  himself  to  be  christened;  becomes  Olaf's  man  and 
gives  his  son  Hound  or  Whelp  as  hostage  to  Olaf,  i.  2qo21- 
2913  ii.  i6915.23 — did  no  homage  to  Olaf  after  his  son's  death, 
ii.  i6924.27 — married  the  daughter  of  Malcolm  (II.),  king  of  the 
Scotch,  and  had  with  her  a  son,  Thorfin,  his  older  sons  being 
Summerlid,  Brusi,  Einar  Wrongmouth,  i6927.31 — went  on  a 
war-raid  to  Ireland,  leaving  his  elder  sons  in  rule  over  Orkney, 
but  placing  Thorfin  with  the  Scottish  king,  and  fell  in  the 
Brian  battle  (battle  of  Clontarf,  1014),  i6931-i7o3 

SIGURD,  son  of  Thorir  ('and  brother  to  Thorir  Hound  of 
Birchisle '),  married  to  Sigrid,  daughter  of  Thorolf  Skialg  and 
sister  to  Erling  Skialgson,  ii.  2i416.19 — abode  at  Thrandness 
in  Omt  on  Hinnisle  in  Halogaland,  not  doing  homage  (as 
his  brother  had  done)  to  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  2i422.24 — his 


sig]  Index  I  187 

character  and  lordly  household  ways,  2i422.24  27.2S — on  be- 
coming Christian  he  held  the  custom  Christianwise  to  have 
three  great  feasts  a  year  at  the  same  time  at  which  he  had 
observed  the  heathen  feasts,  214.^-215,5 — died  'of  sickness,' 

2I5- 
SIGURD,  son  of  Thorir  Hound,  father  to  Rauveig  the  wife  of 

Jon,  son  of  Ami,  iii.  i7l0.12 

SIGURD,  son  of  Thorlak  who  was  brother  to  Thrand  O'Gate 
in  Eastisle  in  the  Faroes,  ii.  26925_29 — is  sent  by  Thrand  after 
Thoralf  of  Dimon,  who  sails  for  Norway  at  the  summons  of 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  in  order  to  see  that  Thoralf  should  not 
inform  the  king  too  clearly  of  the  fate  of  the  two  disastrous 
political  missions  he  had  sent  already  to  Faroe,  27o>12 — 
Sigurd  keeps  Thoralf  sailing  company  across  the  sea  and 
makes  land  at  the  island  of  Herna,  a  short  distance  from 
where  Thoralf  came  to  anchor,  27o13.26 — here  Thoralf  is  slain, 
and  Sigurd,  suspected  of  the  deed,  denies  it  on  oath,  offering 
to  clear  himself  by  ordeal,  to  which  K.  Olaf  agrees  admitting 
him  to  bail ;  but  under  cover  of  night  he  sails  forthwith  back 
to  Faroe,  270.^-2  7  330 — Thrand  feigns  displeasure  with  the 
journey,  273^-2740 — heavy  suspicion  now  fell  on  Sigurd  and 
his  mates,  who,  however,  escaped  unpunished,  2  742.12 — 
made  an  outlaw  for  wounding  a  liege-man  of  Gilli  the  speaker- 
at-law  of  Faroe,  309^5  23.25 

SIGURD,  son  of  Veseti  and  brother  to  Bui,  a  lord  among  the 
Jomsvikings,  i.  27o28.29  27i28 — his  vow  at  the  funeral  feast 
after  his  father  and  Harald  Gormson,  2  7231.33 — commands, 
with  his  brother  Bui  the  Thick,  one  wing  of  the  Jomsburg 
fleet  in  the  Battle  of  Hiorung-wick,  2  7712.13 

SIGURD,  son  of  Viking-Kari  and  father  to  Eric  Biodaskalli, 
i.  33430  (but  ii.  89,5  Eric  Biodaskalli  is,  in  accordance  with 
other  records,  stated  to  be  the  son  of  Viking-Kari,  see  Eric 
Biodaskalli). 

SIGURD  WOOL-STRING,  son  of  Lodin  Viggskull,  a  landed 
man  of  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  foiled  in  his  attempt  to  quell 
the  rebellion  against  K.  Magnus  which  was  led  by  Svein, 
son  of  Harald  Fletcher  and  Steig-Thorir,  iii.  2io,H7 — his 
mission  to  Sveinki  son  of  Steinar,  2  i4ltl-2i722 — his  defence  of 
the  castle  on  Kvaldin's-isle,  227^228^, 

SIGURD    VVORM-IN-EYE  (S.  ormr-i-auga),  son   of  Ragnar 


1 88  Index  I  [sig 

Lodbrok  and  father  to  Aslaug,  the  mother  of  Sigurd  Hart,  i. 
8i8.9 — King  in  Denmark,  2335 
SIGVALDI,  son  of  Strut-Harald,  brother  to  Heming  and 
Thorkel  the  High,  married  to  Astrid,  d.  of  K.  Burislaf  in 
Wendland,  i.  270,.,.^  (cf.  ii.  n8.9)  27i4.5  cf.  36ois.i9  37523_ 
captain  over  Jomsburg  in  Wendland,  2  7o22.23— kidnaps  K. 
Svein  Twibeard  of  Denmark,  and  forces  him  to  make  peace 
with  K.  Burislaf,  whose  daughter  he  should  marry,  and  to 
whom  Svein  in  return  should  give  in  marriage  his  sister 
Thyri,  2703^7 114 — he  and  K.  Svein  hold  jointly  a  funeral 
feast  after  their  fathers,  at  which  the  Jomsvikings  bound  them 
by  vows  to  drive  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty  out  of  Norway, 
27i26-2724  20.24 — he  leads  the  famous  raid  of  the  Jomsvikings 
on  Norway ,"and  is  utterly  defeated  by  Earl  Hakon  in  Hiorung- 
wick,  274^-279 — fetches  from  Denmark  Princess  Thyri 
against  her  will  to  be  married  to  K.  Burislaf,  349329 — makes 
a  compact  with  Svein  to  betray  Olaf  Tryggvison  into  the 
power  of  him  and  his  allies,  36o9.u — his  guiles  towards  and 

betrayal  of  Olaf,  36oi4-3622i  3653-i3  375i9-2i  24-27— his  court 
poet  Thord,  '  Sigvaldi's  skald,'  ii.  5i6.s 

SIGVAT  (Sigvatr),  King  of  Eighth-land,  burned  in  a  banquet- 
ting  hall  at  Upsala  by  Ingiald  Evilheart,  i.  585.10  29-597 

SIGVAT,  son  of  Thord,  by-named  '  Sigvaldi's  skald,'  like  his 
father  an  Icelandic  poet;  fostered  at  Apewater  in  southern 
Iceland,  he  went  young  abroad  and  joined  his  father  at  the 
court  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  ii.  5iu.24 — his  songs  on  Olaf's 
various   exploits    before   he  became    King   of   Norway,    ii. 

627'74    923-31    I°2r"II4    18-26   I2M5   I527-35   l67-16    J  7 16-24.  30_I 84  .26-34 

196-14  16-20  30-2O8  2I5-i3— on  01af  Tryggvison,  Erhng  Skialg- 
son  and  Earl  Rognvald  Wolfson,  2323.31 — on  Erling,  2414.22 
■ — on  Knut,  2  720.24 — on  Earl  Hakon's  disaster  in  Saudung- 
sound,  3226.34 — -his  first  acquaintance  with  and  song  to  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson,  5i24-52G — his  song-reward  and  appointment  as 
body-guard,  52r.18 — prays  the  K.  to  remit  half  the  sailing  fees 
due  from  the  craft  he  came  in  to  Norway,  5225.35 — his  song 
on  the  battle  of  Nesiar,  5724.32  58^  ]3.21  2(5.34  59io-i8  21-29  3r6o6 
17-25  63i3"644 — on  K-  01af's  legislation,  6824.28 — informs  K. 
Ol'af  of  the  state  of  Christianity  in  Iceland,  69^3 — his  journey 
to  Sweden  with  Biorn  the  Marshal  commemorated,  9228-9415 
— his  device  how  to  break  important  news  to  the  king  in  the 


SIG]  Index  I  189 

middle  of  the  night  contrary  to  express  prohibition,  i2810- 
12930 — his  mission  to  Earl  Rognvald,  and  report  thereof  to 
K.  Olaf,  i4415-i5i21 — the  result  of  the  mission,  151^.-152^ — 
his  comparative  estimate  of  Gudbrand  a-Dales  and  Erling 
Skialgson,  20019.32 — baptizes  K.  Olaf's  son  Magnus,  235^- 
2  37a — with  Knut  in  England,  from  whom  he  receives  good 
gifts,  2540-25512 — his  song  on  the  figureheads  of  the  great 
war-galleys,  01.  Tryggvison's  Longworm  and  01.  Haraldson's 
Bison,  31034.33 — commemorates  in  Knut's  Drapa  the  warfare 
in  Denmark  of  Kings  Olaf  and  Onund,  3i232-3i318 — his  west- 
faring  and  second  meeting  with  Knut,  31321,-31403 — his  song 
about  Knut's  expedition  against  K.  Olaf  of  Norway,  314.^- 
3163  3io27-3204  ,27.35 — on  the  point  of  falling  into  disfavour 
with  K.  Olaf  on  account  of  having  been  well  received  by 
Knut,  Sigvat  puts  matters  right  with  a  song,  33394-3353 — his 
songs  on  the  growing  disloyalty  of  K.  Olaf's  subjects,  3366.34 
— song  on  K.  Olaf's  yule-gift  to  Sigvat  of  a  gold-hilted  sword, 
33 77L'.s—smgs  of  K-  01af's  waning  forces,  34612.20  347i-s — his 
song  on  Erling  Skialgson's  fight  and  fall,  356i4-2<  3r357o  1321 
3r358t3  n.20  359,s-36o14— sings  of  K.  OlaPs  unswerving  stern 
maintenance  of  justice,  37i3.2S — his  absence  from  the  battle 
of  Sticklestead  provokes  adverse  remarks  from  Thormod 
Coalbrowskald,  40421-4056  4o815.19 — -incidents  of  the  battle  of 
Sticklestead  recorded  in  Sigvat's  songs:  the  king's  standard- 
bearer,  412,3-4 1 34;  K.  Olaf's  dauntlessness,  4i315.24;  K. 
Olafs  inferiority  in  numbers,  4263.n;  fierceness  of  the  landed 
men's  attack,  42  810.24;  K.  Olaf's  rushing  out  of  the  shield- 
burg  to  head  the  attack,  429^-430^;  total  eclipse  of  the  sun, 
43i3.n;  the  fall  of  K.  Olaf,  4323..24;  the  fall  of  Biorn  the 
Marshal,  43327.35;  Day's  brunt,  443vl7 — commemorates  the 
growth  of  the  dead  king's  hair,  4572t;-4582 — sings  of  the  dura- 
tion of  Olaf's  reign,  and  of  his  battles  and  Christian  zeal, 
46o21-46in — praises  Queen  Astrid's  kindness  towards  Mag- 
nus the  Good,  iii.  5n.35 — his  return  from  Rome:  memorial 
verses  on  Olaf,  i24-i414 — goes  to  Sweden  and  joins  company 
with  Magnus,  and  becomes  his  man,  i415-i524 — commemor- 
ates miracles  at  the  shrine  of  Olaf  and  the  feast-day  in  his 
memory,  i6i:ri74 — his  pleading  with  K.  Magnus  for  milder 
treatment  of  his  subjects,  boldly  censuring  the  king  in  his 
'Staves  of  naked  Says,'  224-242s 


190  Index  I  [sim — ske 

SIMON  (Simon),  the  son  of  Kari,  married  to  Margaret,  the 
daughter  of  Queen  Ingirid  d.  of  Rognvald,  and  Ami  of  Stod- 
reim,  iii.  37o22.2r 

SIMON,  son  of  Thorberg,  a  mighty  man,  the  owner  of  a  stead 
in  Wick,  married  to  Gunnhild,  their  sons  Onund  and  An- 
dreas, 'the  sons  of  Simon,'  iii.  4077 — brings  up  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad,  3735.24 

SIMON  SHEATH  (S.  skalpr),  son  of  Hallkel  Hunch,  married 
to  Maria,  daughter  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  their  son  Nicolas, 
iii.  3799.12 — goes  over  to  the  side  of  King  Ingi,  39232— hits 
upon  King  Eystein  Haraldson  in  his  hiding  place,  and  has 
him  cruelly  slain,  39430-3952o — becomes  most  unpopular  for 
the  deed,  3963.13 — joins  Gregory  Dayson  going  in  pursuit  of 
Hakon  Shoulderbroad  east  unto  Kings'-Rock,  4oo10 — Sigurd 
of  Reyr's  opinion  of  his  title  to  kingship  in  Norway,  4095.9 — 
fights  on  the  side  of  K.  Ingi  in  the  battle  of  Oslo,  and  falls, 

424i3-15  24-25  42615-23 

SKADI  (Ska^i),  giantess  of  kin,  i.  2i4 — married  to  Niord, 
whom  she  left  for  Odin,  with  whom  she  had  many  sons, 
2o262is 

SKAGl,  the  son  of  Skopti,  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty's  father-in- 
law,  i.  2474 

SKANINGS  (Skanungar),  inhabitants  of  the  province  of  Skaney, 
i.  362^  ii.  323.33  iii.  3i15  332S  385  4332  4532  4712  4822 

SKAPTI,  son  of  Thorod,  Speaker-at-law  in  Iceland,  1004-1030, 
ii.  69n.12 — receives,  together  with  those  who  bore  most  rule 
in  Iceland,  a  message  from  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  enjoining 
amendment  of  the  Christian  law  of  the  land  (cf.  69^),  739.15 
— designated  by  King  Olaf  Haraldson  as  keeper  of  the 
troublesome  Upland  king  Rcerek  in  case  of  need,  13594.20 — 
invited,  together  with  other  chiefs  of  Iceland,  by  Thorarin 
Nefiolfson,  to  go  to  Norway  to  meet  King  Olaf,  an  invitation 
on  which  S.  did  not  act,  245-2463  24921 — makes  a  drapa  on 
King  Olaf  Haraldson  which  he  teaches  to  his  son  Stein, 
charging  him  to  recite  it  to  the  king,  but  the  latter  refused  to 
hear,  278^  20.32 

SKARDI  (Skar^i),  a  Jomsviking,  i.  28213.16 

SKAUN-FOLK  (Skeynir),  inhabitants  of  the  district  of  Skaun 
in  Thrandheim,  Norway,  ii.  19632 

SKEGGI,  see  Jarnskeggi,  son  of  Asbiorn. 


s ke —  s  ko]  Index  I  191 

SKEGGI  of  Uphowe,  see  Jarnskeggi. 
SKEGGI  (son  of  Thorgeir),  father  of  Hialti,  i.  ZZS\ 
SKIALDVOR  (Skjaldvor),  daughter  of  Bryniolf  Camel  and 
Thora  (d.  of  Joan),  the  mother  of  Magnus  Barefoot,  had  for 
husband  Sigurd  son  of  Hrani  (Rani),  their  son  Nicolas,  iii. 

2722M6  48lo-i3 

SKIALDVOR,  daughter  of  Nicolas,  the  son  of  Sigurd  Hranison, 
wife  of  Eric  Arnison,  iii.  48i19.21 

SKIALF  (Skjalf),  daughter  of  Frosti,  lord  of  Finland,  taken  in 
war  by  Agni,  K.  of  the  Swedes,  and  wedded  by  him,  whom, 
however,  she  hanged  by  the  fatal  necklace  of  Visbur,  i.  3320- 

3429 

SKIALG  (Skjalgr),  see  Thorolf  Skialg. 

SKIALG,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli  and  Astrid,  daughter 
of  King  Tryggvi  Olafson,  ii.  2426 — enters  (apparently  as  a  sort 
of  hostage),  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  household,  ii.  2i48.9 — his 
efforts  to  save  his  cousin  Asbiorn  Seals'-bane's  life  after  the 
murder  of  Thorir  Seal,  2237-224  227^,-2283 — goes  to  England 
into  the  service  of  King  Knut,  where  he  is  handsomely  ad- 
vanced, 2  5525.32 

SKIALG,  a  mighty  and  wealthy  man  who  joined  the  revolt  of 
Steigthorir  and  Svein,  son  of  Harald  Fletcher,  against  K. 
Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  209^-2 io2 

SKIOLD  (Skjoldr),  son  of  Odin,  King  of  Selund,  married 
to  Gefion,  and  had  his  seat  in  Hleithra,  i.  i6x.2 

SKIOLD,  King  of  Varna,  a  mighty  wizard;  his  dealings  with 
Eystein,  King  of  Westfold,  i.  682(.-699(. 

SKIOLDUNGS,  descendants  of  K.  Skiold,  saga  of  them  (Skjold- 
unga  saga),  i.  5o18 

SKOGUL,  or  Geir-Skogul  (Skogul),  a  '  Valkyrja,'  1.  io223  1895 
i90„q  I9i27  i92x  6  ii.  44o30 

SKOGUL-TOSTI,  or  simply  Tosti  (Skoglar-Tosti),  a  mighty 
yet  untitled  lord  in  Sweden,  a  great  warrior,  receives  into  his 
fellowship  Harald  the  Grenlander,  i.  2i226-2i33 — his  daughter 
Sigrid  the  Haughty,  2i33.5  35622.23 — his  son  Wolf,  Earl  of 
West  Gautland,  35690.O3 

SKOPTI,  the  father  of  Skagi,  i.  2474 

SKOPTI  of  Gizki,  son  of  Ogmund,  married  Gudrun,  d.  of 
Thord  Folison;  their  children :  Ogmund,  Finn,  Thord,  Thora, 
wife  of  Asolf  Skulison  of  Rein,  and  Ragnhild,  wife  of  Eilif, 


192  Index  I  [sko — sno 

iii.  i84u  2og23  22527-2263  377l7.ls— his  and  his  sons'  dispute 
with  K.  Magnus  Barefoot  about  a  heritage,  235^236 — he  and 
his  sons  all  die  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Rome,  2$j3.Vj — said  to  be 
the  first  Norwegian  to  sail  through  Norvisound,  337151- 

SKOPTI  OF-THE-TIDINGS  (TftSinda-Skopti),  son  ofSkagi 
Skoptison,  married  to  Ragnhild,  the  daughter  of  Hakon, 
Earl  of  Ladir,  i.  24710.12 — held  in  great  favour  by  Hakon, 
who  gave  him  great  fiefs  in  Mere,  and  ordered  his  ship  always 
to  be  berthed  next  to  his  own,  247m9 — he  was  ever  to  be 
the  bearer  of  the  latest  news  to  Hakon,  whence  his  byname, 
24^i4-ir — his  quarrel  with  Eric,  Hakon's  son,  about  the  berth 
privilege,  24700-248^ — slain  by  Eric,  2481S-24911 

SKULI  (Skiili),  Duke,  the  son  of  Bard,  the  son  of  Guthorm 
the  son  of  Asolf  of  Rein  and  Thora  d.  of  Skopti  Ogmundson, 
iii.  i8413  336.27 

SKULI,  the  King's  fosterer  (S.  konungsfostri)  [son  of  Earl 
Tosti  Godwinson,  Fms.  vi.  428l7.19]  accompanies  K.  Olaf  the 
Quiet  from  England  to  Norway,  great  favourite  of  the  king, 
marries  his  first  cousin,  Gudrun,  d.  of  Nefstein,  their  son 
Asolf  of  Rein,  iii.  i839-i8410 

SKULI,  Earl  of  Orkney,  son  of  Thorfinn  Skull-cleaver  and  of 
Grelad,  daughter  of  Dungad,  Earl  of  Caithness,  i.  241^  ii. 
i6830-i6q3 

SKULI,  son  of  Thorstein  the  son  of  Egil  Skallagrimson,  an 
Icelandic  poet,  author  of  a  poem  on  the  great  fight  with  the 
Tomsburg  vikings,  i.  367.^-3684 

SKYLFINGS,  better  SKILFINGS  (Skilfingar),  name  of  a  royal 
line  in  '  Eastern  ways '  from  K.  Skelfir  (cf.  Snorra  Edda,  i. 
52  2l7l9),  hence  princely  race,  i.  4634 

SLAYING  GLUM  (Viga  Gliirnr),  i.  28o6 

SLEMBI,  or  Slembi-Deacon  (  =  bad  Deacon),  nickname  of 
Sigurd,  reputed  son  of  King  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  33 74  33924  ?6 

SMALLAND  FOLK  (Smalendingar),  inhabitants  of  the 
Swedish  province  of  Smalland,  iii.  285^ 

SNORRI  THE  PRIEST,  son  of  Thorgrim  (Snorri  J3orgrimsson 
go^i),  near  thirty-five  when  Christ's  faith  came  to  Iceland 
(1000),  and  died  one  winter  after  the  fall  of  King  Olaf  the 
Holy  (1031)  (cf.  Eredwellers'  Saga),  i.  71-5 — receives  by 
Thorarin  Nefiolfson  a  pressing  invitation  from  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson  to  go  to  Norway  to  meet  the  King,  an  invitation 


sno — sol  J  Index  I  193 

viewed  with  suspicion  and  not  acted  upon  by  Snorri,  ii.  245- 
246s  249._,L> 

SNOW  THE  OLD  (Snjar  hinn  gamli),  mythic  K.  of  Finland, 
i.  2630 

SNOWFAIR  (SnaefrfSr),  daughter  of  Swasi,  a  Finnish  wizard, 
brews  to  Harald  Hairfair  a  love-potion,  '  a  cup  full  of  honey- 
mead,'  and  he  makes  her  his  wedded  wife,  loving  her  so  much 
that  he  neglects  all  his  kingly  duties,  i.  ii921-i2o1 — her 
children,  and  disenchanting  removal  for  burial,  120. 

SOGNERS,  Sognfolk,  folk  of,  men  of  Sogn  (Sygnir),  inhabi- 
tants of  the  folkland  of  Sogn,  Norway,  i.  3o821  ii.  i4725  4231s 
iii.  2224  2731  2i36  344ll3 

SOKMIMIR(S6kmimir),agiant(  =  Sokkmimir,Grm.49),i.  2623 

SOLVA  (Solva),  see  Solveig. 

SOLVAR  (Solvarr),  son  of  Solvi  the  Old,  i.  6524 

SOLVEIG  (S61veig),  wife  of  Andres  Brunison,  a  Priest  of  Christ's 
Church  at  Kings'  Rock,  iii.  325^ — flees  away  from  Kings' 
Rock  up  country  unto  the  stead  of  Sunberg  with  tidings  of 
the  Wendish  sack  of  Kings'  Rock,  32  821 

SOLVEIG  or  Solva,  d.  of  Halfdan  Gold-tooth,  married  to  K. 
Olaf  Tree-shaver,  i.  6522.23 — their  sons  Ingiald  and  Halfdan, 

*•  "528-29 

SOLVI  (Solvi),  son  of  Halfdan  Gold-tooth,  King  of  Sol-isles, 
slain  by  Swedish  invaders,  i.  6530  677.9 

SOLVI,  son  of  Hogni  of  Niord's-isle,  a  sea-king,  and  also  pos- 
sessed of  a  realm  in  Jutland;  burnt  King  Eystein  of  Sweden 
in  his  house;  became  King  of  the  Swedes,  who  ultimately 
betrayed  him,  i.  523-534 

SOLVI  KLOFI,  son  of  King  Hunthiof  of  Northmere,  fights 
together  with  his  father  against  Harald  Hairfair  in  his  first 
battle  at  Solskel,  and  saves  himself  by  flight,  i.  9930-ioo15 
— -keeps  up  viking-raids  during  the  next  winter  throughout 
Northmere,  and  stays  at  times  with  his  kinsman  King  Arnvid 
in  Southmere,  ioi6.13 — brings  about  an  alliance  between  K. 
Arnvid  of  Southmere  and  K.  Audbiorn  of  Firthfolk  against 
Harald,  with  whom  they  fight  at  Solskel,  where  they  fell,  and 
Solvi  saved  himself  by  flight,  ioil7-io220 — thereafter  Solvi 
was  a  viking  for  a  long  time,  and  did  much  harm  to  Harald's 
realm,  io233  io32 — slays  in  battle,  at  the  mouth  of  the  Elf, 
Guthorm,  son  of  K.  Har.  Hairfair,  i2  8,H1  i3210.17 
vi.  O 


194  Index  I  [sol — ste 

SOLVI  THE  OLD  (S.  hinn  gamli),  who  first  cleared  the  dis- 
trict of  Sol-isles,  i.  6525 
SOLVI,  the  son  of  Solvar,  father  to  Halfdan  Gold-tooth,  i.  6524 
SORKVIR  (Sorkvir,  Swed.  Sverker)  II.,  King  of  Sweden,  ob. 
1210,  son  of  Karl  (the  son  of  Sorkvir  I.),  iii.  27i12 — married 
to    Ingigerd   daughter   of  Earl   Birgir  Brosa  and   Brigida, 
daughter  of  King  Harald  Gilli,  3797 
SORLI  (Sorli),  son  of  Jonakr,  a  mythic  hero,  i.  259^  27839 
SOTI  (S6ti),  captain  of  a  viking-band  with  whom  Olaf  the  Holy 
had  his  first  battle  amidst  the  islands  afterwards  called  Soti- 
sker,  ii.  616-74 
SOTI,  an  earl,  brother  to  Sulki   King  of  Rogaland,  fought 
against  Harald  Hairfair,  and  fell  in  the  battle  of  Hafursfirth, 

i-    I]tI8-28 

SOUTHMERE  (the  folk  of)  (Sunnmserir),  inhabitants  of  the 

folkland  of  S.  M.,  i.  3o821 
SPAREBIDERS  (Sparbyggjar),  inhabitants  of  Spareby,  one  of 

the  folklands  of  Thrandheim,  ii.  i9631 
SPORSNIALLR  (Sporsnjallr),  King  of  Nerick,  burned  in  a 

banqueting  hall  at  Upsala  by  Ingiald  Evilheart,  i.  585.10  29- 

597 
STARKAD  THE   OLD  (StarkaSr  hinn  gamli),  one  of  the 

champions  of  K.  Haki,  i.  3813.15 — slew  Ali  the  Bold  at  Upsala, 

4  2  27-29 

STEIG-THORIR,  see  Thorir  of  Steig. 

STEIN  (Steinn),  son  of  Herdis,  an  Icel.  poet,  author  of  a 
'flock,'  or  a  short  drapa  on  Wolf,  K.  Harald  Hardredy's  mar- 
shal, iii.  io419 — lines  on  the  meeting  of  Harald's  and  Svein's 
hosts  in  Lofa-firth,  when  Harald's  men  wished  to  flee,  i3214;31 
— on  board  Wolf  the  Marshal's  ship  in  the  battle  of  Niz, 
1 3320-28 — son§  on  tne  nost  °f  King  Svein  in  that  battle,  i3419.28 
— on  the  battle  of  Niz,  i355.25 — his  drapa  on  K.  Olaf  the 
Quiet  quoted,  i689.20  i8729-i886  i9i15.23  2oi5.30 

STEIN,  son  of  Skapti  Thoroddson,  goes  in  obedience  to 
King  Olaf  Haraldson's  message  by  Thorarin  Nefiolfson, 
to  Norway,  and  stays  with  the  king,  ii.  24919.29 — is  refused 
return  to  Iceland  next  season  by  King  Olaf,  until  the  result 
of  Gellir  Thorkelson's  mission  to  the  island  should  be  known, 
and  is  detained  in  a  manner  that  '  savoured  of  unfreedom,' 
2  7415-2  750 — his  discontent  at  this  treatment  given  vent  to  in 


ste — stu]  Index  I  195 

speech  and  song,  2783.;,  12.19 — personal  description,  278^ — 
K.  Olaf  refuses  to  listen  to  a  laudatory  poem  by  Stein's  father, 
on  account  of  the  son's  refractory  conduct,  2  78<H2  20.32 — he 
runs  away  from  the  court  of  the  king,  slays  a  steward  of  his 
in  Orkdale,  and  seizes  a  horse  and  sleigh  and  makes  for  the 
south,  279^33 — arrives  at  Giski,  where  Ragnhild,  daughter  of 
Erling  Skialgson,  in  the  absence  of  her  husband  Thorberg 
Arnison,  gives  him  the  best  of  cheers  out  of  gratitude  for 
former  kind  service,  28o1-28i13 — by  the  aid  of  Thorberg  and 
the  family  of  Erling,  Stein  is  delivered  from  the  king's  wrath 
and  leaves  Norway  for  England,  where  he  remains  for  a  long 
time  in  King  Knut's  service,  28i14-28625 

STEINAR,  the  father  of  Sveinki,  iii.  2i410 

STEINKEL  [son  of  Rognvald],  King  of  Sweden,  ob.  c.  1066; 
receives  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson  flying  away  from  K.  Harald 
Hardredy's  persecution,  and  appoints  him  ruler  of  Vermland, 
iii.  i45.n..,4  i467.10 — gives  support  to  him  in  his  contest  with 
Harald  (Vener  campaign),  i5o2(i.2T  i524.7 — dies  near  the  time 
of  the  fall  of  the  two  Haralds  (Godwinson  and  Hardredy),  226,. 

STEPHANUS,  legate  from  Romeburg,  at  Biorgvin  with  Abp 
Eystein  and  other  bishops,  iii.  46ils 

STEPHEN  (Stefnir),  King  of  England,  iii.  37612 

STIG  WHITELEATHER  (S.  hvftaleSr),  married  to  Margret, 
daughter  of  Knut  the  Lord  and  Ingibiorg  the  d.  of  K.  Harald 
Valdemarson  of  Holmgarth;  his  and  Margret's  daughter 
Kristin,  wife  of  the  Swedish  K.  Karl,  s.  of  Sorkvir,  iii.  2  7o28- 

2  71     n 

STONEGARTH,  i.  io439  =  Griotgard,  q.v. 
STOUR-WHILES  MAGNUS  (Styrjaldar  Magnus),  one  of  the 

nick-names  of  King  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  233^ 
STRADBIARNI,  follower  of  K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  iii. 

44 1  is 
STRUT-HARALD  (Stnit-Haraldr),  King  of  Skaney,  father  to 

Earl  Sigvaldi,  Heming  and  Thorkel  the  High,  i.  270^ — 
grave-ale  feast  after  him,  271.^-273,. 
STUF  THE  SKALD,  son  of  Thord,  sings  of  Harald  Hardredy's 
doings  in  Palestine,  iii.  7  il7-27  724.12 — of  Harald's  warring, 
summer  after  summer,  to  Denmark,  97w — on  Harald's  war- 
raid  on  Vendil-Skagi  and  Thioda,  9820.24 — on  the  kind  recep- 
tion given  to  himself  by  Harald  at  Howe,  i93i0.28 


196  Index  I  [sty — sve 

STYRBIORN  (Styrbjorn),  son  of  Olaf  the  son  of  the  Swedish 
king  Biorn  (son  of  Eric),  i.  1 248  2 139 — subdued  Harald  Gorm- 
son  of  Denmark  so  that  he  became  Styrbiorn's  man,  ii.  9732- 
982 — overcome  and  slain  by  his  father's  brother,  King  Eric 
the  Victorious,  983.5  (cf.  Flatey  book,  ii.  72n-732) — his  con- 
quests in  the  East-lands  (the  southern  and  eastern  litoral  of 
the  Baltic)  referred  to,  991S.21 

STYRKAR  (Styrkarr),  marshal  of  King  Harald  Sigurdson,  his 
adventure  after  the  battle  of  Stamfordbridge,  Hi.  1797.99 

STYRKAR  OF  GIMSAR,  son  of  Hreidar  and  grandfather  of 
Einar  Thambarskelfir,  i.  2i528 — commands  in  the  centre  of 
Earl  Hakon's  fleet  in  the  battle  of  Hiorungwick,  2  776.u — 
threatened  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  to  be  sacrificed  to  the  heathen 
gods,  3194.,. 

STYRKAR  GLOSSY-TAIL  (S.  glsesir6fa),  slain  by  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon,  hi.  3572s-358i 

SULK  I  (Sulki),  King  of  Rogaland,  joins  the  kings  of  Hord- 
land,  Agdir  and  Thelmark,  against  Harald  Hairfair,  and  fights 
against  him  in  the  battle  of  Hafursfirth,  where  he  falls,  i.  1 1 i8.07 

SUMMERLID  (SumarlrSi),  son  of  Sigurd  the  Thick,  Earl  of 
Orkney,  ii.  i6930 — rules  over  the  Orkneys  after  his  father's 
death  as  co-Earl  with  his  two  brothers,  16933-170}  3.6 — his 
death,  17029-17^ 

SVEIDI  (Svei'Si),  a  sea-king  of  fame,  i.  2  732S 

SVEIN  (Sveinn),  an  attendant  on  the  blinded  Upland  King 
Rcerek,  at  whose  instigation  he  attempts  the  life  of  King  Olaf, 
but  failing,  was  caught  and  allowed  by  Olaf  to  leave  the  land 
in  peace,  ii.  i2328-i2516 

SVEIN,  son  of  Bergthor  Buck,  iii.  42428 

SVEIN  BRIDGEFOOT  (S.  bryggjuf6tr),  a  landed  man  of  the 
Wick,  assists  Sigurd  Woolstring  in  his  mission  to  obtain  the 
allegiance  to  K.  Magnus  Barefoot  of  Sveinki  Steinarson,  iii. 
2i421  2i712 — his  son  Bergthor  a  witness  in  the  law-case  of 
Sigurd  Hranison,  2  7521.24 

SVEIN,  son  of  Eric  Everminded,  King  in  Denmark  11 52-1 157, 
iii.  2719 

SVEIN,  son  of  Earl  Eric  Hakonson,  rules  Norway  after  the  death 
of  his  father  conjointly  with  Hakon  his  brother,  ii.  2i21.22 — 
Snorri's,  or  probably  rather  a  scribe's,  mistake;  Earl  Eric  had 
no  such  son. 


sve] 


Index  I  197 


SVEIN,  son  of  Erlend  of  Garth  and  father  of  Svein  the  father 
of  Kyrping-Worm,  iii.  37 16 

SVEIN,  Earl,  son  of  Earl  Godwin  by  his  wife  Gyda,  ii.  32  610.13 
iii.  i5518.o2 — with  King  Harald  his  brother  at  the  battle  of 
Helsingport,  i8i10 

SVEIN  OF  JADAR,  son  of  Aslak  the  son  of  Erling  Skialgson 
of  Soli,  iii.  29917 

SVEIN,  Olaf  the  Swede  king's  Earl  in  Norway,  1000-1015; 
son  of  Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir  and  Thora,  the  daughter  of 
Skagi  Skoptison,  i.  247^ — commands  a  division  of  his  father's 
fleet  in  the  battle  of  Hiorungwick,  2  7718.22  2795.3 — mes>  witn 
his  brother  Eric,  to  Sweden,  when  Olaf  Tryggvison  becomes 
king  of  Norway,  299m9  3456.9 — married  to  Holmfrid,  daughter 
of  King  Olaf  the  Swede,  37721-22 — receives,  on  tributary  terms, 
at  the  partition  of  Norway,  after  the  fall  of  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
his  father-in-law's  share,  and  holds  that  dominion  as  an  Earl 
of  Sweden,  37725-3i  37803-24 — proves  a  liberal,  enlightened  and 
a  popular  ruler,  37825.31 — rules  Norway  conjointly  with  his 
brother,  Eric,  ii.  2i19.21  25o22.24 — gives  his  sister  Bergljot  in 
marriage  to  Einar  Thambarsicelfir,  2  224.20 — weds  his  daughter 
Sigrid  to  Aslak,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson,  and  confers  on  him 
the  same  grants  as  Olaf  Tryggvison  had  conferred  on  Erling, 
33i2-iscf-  255-2s-29ni-  Io6-3-2ti~his  kindred  opposed  King  Olaf 
Haraldson  on  coming  to  Norway,  3325-27 — Olaf's  estimate  of 
him  as  antagonist,  3919.o3 — flies  from  his  residence  at  Steinker 
on  hearing  of  Olaf's  approach,  and  escapes  detection  by  hid- 
ing his  ship  under  the  branches  of  trees  that  grew  by  the 
water's  edge,  4825-4934 — council  of  war  with  Einar  Thambar- 
skelfir  in  Frosta;  the  Earl  goes  to  Stiordale,  4927-50^  51^ — 
Earl  Svein  and  the  Icelanders'  sailing-fees,  5219..,2 — having 
gathered  a  large  host,  the  Earl  and  Einar  Thambarskelfir 
march  on  Nidoyce,  whence  Olaf  had  to  flee  while  they  burn 
the  place  to  the  ground,  53^ — after  Yule  he  calls  out  a  muster 
of  men  and  ships  from  Thrandheim,  and  has  a  large  host, 
which  he  still  recruits,  going  south  along  the  land,  joined  by 
Einar  Thambarskelfir  and  Erling  Skialgson,  and  towards  the 
end  of  Lent  arrives  with  his  fleet  off  Nesiar,  54L»i-55i9 — the 
battle  of  Nesiar  and  Svein's  defeat,  573-6o3]  cf.  io5-.r  i5o13.10 
— he  resolves,  against  Erling  Skialgson's  advice,  to  flee  the 
land  and  resort  to  the  avail  of  his  father-in-law,  King  Olaf  of 


198  Index  I  [sve 

Sweden,  625.20  cf.  4i820.21 — having  collected  the  remnant  of 
his  fleet  outside  the  firth  where  he  fought,  King  Sigurd  Sow 
advises  King  Olaf,  his  stepson,  to  make  a  fresh  attack  on  the 
Earl,  which  counsel  Olaf  did  not  follow,  and  so  Earl  Svein 
escaped,  6227-633  9.10 — he  goes  to  King  Olaf  of  Sweden,  who 
promises  to  supply  him  with  men  and  means  to  reconquer 
Norway  from  Olaf,  65n.23 — he  plans  an  invasion  of  Thrand- 
heim  next  year  and  goes  in  the  meantime  warring  about  the 
Baltic,  6524.30 — returning  in  autumn  to  Sweden,  he  dies  of 
sickness,  and  his  company  of  Norwegians  make  their  way 
over  Jamtland  to  Thrandheim  and  bring  the  news  of  his 
death,  663.15  2iiltH7 — chronology  of  his  and  K.  Olaf  Harald- 
son's  reigns,  3673  19.23  46o18.20 

SVEIN,  son  of  Harald  Fletcher,  a  Dane,  raises,  together  with 
Steig-Thorir,  after  the  death  of  K.  Hakon  Magnusson,  the 
standard  of  revolt  against  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  2092-2io6 
— they  defeat  K.  Magnus'  commander,  Sigurd  Woolstring,  at 
Vigg,  2io9.20 — pursued  by  K.  Magnus,  they  go  north  to 
Halogaland,  plundering  and  burning,  2io21-2ii16 — turning 
south  in  the  same  manner,  they  encounter  K.  Magnus  in  the 
firth  called  Harm,  where  Svein  escapes  by  flight,  2ii19.28 — 
Svein  flees  to  Denmark,  and  ultimately  gets  into  peace  and 
favour  with  King  Eystein,  son  of  Magnus,  2i329-2i42 

SVEIN,  King  of  Norway,  1 030-1035;  son  of  K.  Knut  the 
Mighty  by  his  concubine  Alfiva,  designated  ruler  over  Nor- 
way by  Knut  while  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  was  yet  alive,  ii.  3893.6 
— receives,  as  ruler  over  Wendland,  an  order  from  his  father 
to  be  king  over  Norway,  44910.18 — repairs  to  Norway  in  com- 
pany with  his  mother  and  Earl  Harald,  son  of  Thorkel  the 
High,  44918.33 — proclaimed  king  in  Norway  at  every  Law- 
Thing,  45o1.8 — his  unpopular  laws,  450^45 126  cf.  iii.  2683.6 
— he,  and  in  particular  his  mother,  generally  disliked,  45 126.30 
— the  sons  of  Ami  make  terms  of  peace  with  K.  Svein,  and 
go  into  private  life,  4533.1S — K.  Svein  gives  leave  to  bpGrimkel 
to  take  the  body  of  K.  Olaf  out  of  the  grave,  and  is  present 
at  the  translation,  4554-45630 — K.  Svein's  deeds  sung  by 
Thorarin  Praisetongue,  4583-4593,3— Svein's  growing  unpopu- 
larity, 461^-462 — his  successful  expedition  against  Tryggvi, 
463-46535 — reigns  thereafter  in  peace,  46526.2S — his  officials, 
on  hearing  of  the  arrival  in  Norway  of  Magnus  the  Good, 


sve] 


Index  I  199 


take  to  flight  everywhere,  iii.  629-7u — Svein  flies  away  from 
Norway,  and  accepts  from  his  brother  Hordaknut  dominion 
in  Denmark,  8-91G  io7.101H6 — he  dies  in  Denmark,  93^10, — 
his  relations  to  Sigvat  the  Skald,  I312-i6 
SVEIN,  son  of  Knut  Sveinson  of  Jadar  by  Rimhild,  commands 
a  galley  in  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  fleet,  iii.  2  9915.17 — his 
quarrel  with  Harald  Gilli,  3oo17-3022 
SVEIN,  a  Priest,  slain  together  with  his   two   sons  by  Sigurd 

Slembi-Deacon  and  King  Magnus  the  Blind,  iii.  35721 
SVEIN,  son  of  Rimhild,  see  Svein  son  of  Knut  Sveinson  of 

Jadar. 
SVEIN,  the  son  of  Svein  the  son  of  Erlend  of  Garth,  iii.  371,3 
SVEIN,  'King  of  Denmark,' son  of  K.  Svein  Wolfson,  iii.  427^ 
SVEIN  TWI BEARD  (S.  tjuguskegg),  King  of  Denmark,  986- 
1014,  son  of  K.  Harald  Gormson,  said  to  have  been  baptized 
to  the  name  of  Otto  Svein,  given  him  by  his  gossip,  the  Em- 
peror Otto  II.,  i.  26o5.8  cf.  ii.  25o12.15 — married,  1,  Gunnhild,  d. 
of  K.  Burislaf  of  Wendland,  i.  27i10.n  15.16;  their  sons  Harald 
and  K.  Knut  the  Mighty,  27i16.17  ii.  25o12.14;  2,  Sigrid  the 
Haughty,  34828.31;  their  daughter  Astrid,  wife  of  Earl  Wolf, 
s.  of  Thorgils  Sprakalegg,  ii.  26723.25  iii.  293.10 — father  to  Gyda 
(by  what  mother  not  stated),  the  wife  of  Earl  Eric  Hakonson, 

i-  348i2-i8  .  . 

Svein  demands  of  his  father  a  share  in  the  kingdom,  and 

on  refusal  rises  in  rebellion,  giving  his  father  battle  in  Icefirth 
in  Sealand,  where  K.  Harald  is  mortally  wounded,  i.  2  7o3.19 
— Svein  becomes  K.  of  Denmark,  2  7o20.21 — kidnapped  by  Earl 
Sigvaldi  he  is  forced  to  marry  Gunnhild  d.  of  K.  Burislaf  of 
Wendland,  and  to  betroth  to  him  his  sister  Thyri,  2  7o31-2  7i14 
34^24-26 — vows,  at  the  famous  grave-ale  after  his  father,  to  con- 
quer England,  27133-27  212 — marriage  alliances,  34812.33  35826.27 
— forced  by  Earl  Sigvaldi  to  hand  over  to  him  his  sister  Thyri 
to  be  married  to  K.  Burislaf,  3493.2i  cf.  35o3.10 — settles  on  Thyri 
the  domains  in  Wendland  that  had  belonged  to  his  deceased 
(in  reality  repudiated)  queen,  Gunnhild,  34921-25 — at  tne  insti- 
gation of  his  queen,  Sigrid  the  Haughty,  he  summons  his  allies, 
King  Olaf  the  Swede  and  Earl  Eric,  to  join  battle  with  Olaf 
Tryggvison  when  going  to  Wendland,  359!.2i  ii-  987.8 — they  join 
their  forces  with  him  when  Olaf  had  already  sailed  by  to  Wend- 
land, 35922-36o0 — he  employs  Earl  Sigvaldi  to  lead  Olaf  Trygg- 


200  Index  I  [sve 

vison  into  a  trap,  where  he  and  his  allies  should  be  ready  to 
attack  him,  36o9.14 — awaits  King  Olaf  at  the  '  island  '  of  Svoldr, 
where  the  latter  is  defeated  and  drowned,  36224-37421  cf.  ii. 
985.8 — Svein  treats  with  his  allies  for  the  spoils  of  eventual 
victory,  36422.28 — his  poor  share  in  the  battle  as  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison  had  guessed,  367^  19.21  368]8.26 — receives,  for  his  share 
of  Norway  after  the  fall  of  Olaf  Tryggvison :  the  Wick,  Raum- 
realm  and  Heathmark,  but  bestows  the  latter  two  folklands 
on  Earl  Eric,  3 7 820.22  ii.  25o19.22  cf.  iii.  4388.12 — his  presence 
in  England;  K.  ^Ethelred  flies  to  Normandy,  ii.  i219.26 — his 
sudden,  legendarily  accounted  for,  death,  i226.31 — praised  by 
King  Rcerek  of  Heathmark  for  his  mild  and  liberal  rule  in 
Norway,  43i7-*2 
SVEIN  WOLFSON,  King  of  Denmark,  1047-1076,  son  of  Earl 
Wolf  the  son  of  Thorgils  Sprakalegg  by  Astrid,  d.  of  Svein 
Twibeard  and  Sigrid  the  Haughty  (Svein's  mother  being  thus 
half-sister  of  Knut  the  Mighty  and  aunt  of  K.  Onund  of 
Sweden),  ii.  26723.26  3i98.9  iii-  293.10 — married  Gunnhild,  d. 
of  Earl  Svein  Hakonson,  iii.  io626.28 — his  children,  i9421.29 

2  7  i6.284i  9-20 

His  father  having  offended  K.  Knut,  Svein  intercedes  and 
offers  himself  a  hostage  for  him,  ii.  3i97.16 — K.  Knut  hav- 
ing murdered  his  father,  Svein  betook  himself  to  his  cousin 
Onund,  K.  of  Sweden,  and  dwelt  with  him  for  a  long  time, 
iii.  2910.16 — personal  description,  29l7.22 — becomes  K.  Magnus 
the  Good's  man  and  is  appointed  by  him  Earl  of  Denmark, 
2923"3I25 — breaks  his  allegiance  to  K.  M.  and  sets  up  as  King 
of  Denmark,  339.14 — hearing  that  K.  Magnus  was  coming  with 
a  host  from  Norway  he  flees  to  Sweden,  collects  an  army  and 
goes  to  Denmark  to  oppose  Magnus,  3314-343 — severely  de- 
feated by  K.  Magnus  off  the  island  of  Re  (Rugen)  he  flees 
to  Skaney,  gathers  a  fresh  host  and  takes  it  to  Riveroyce 
in  Jutland,  where  he  suffers  an  overwhelming  defeat,  being 
chased  by  Magnus  through  Denmark,  38-4427— Svein  flees 
to  Sweden,  gathers  an  army  once  more  and  goes  to  Denmark, 
where  he  is  defeated  once  again  by  Magnus  at  Holiness  and 
driven  to  Sweden,  4430-451  30-4923- — Thiodolf's  commemora- 
tion of  the  three  battles  Svein  fought  with  Magnus,  5i10.18 — 
Svein  makes  acquaintance  with  Harald  Sigurdson  (Hardredy) 
and  enters  an  alliance  with  him  for  reconquering  Denmark 


sve — swa]  Index  I  201 

and  ousting  K.  Magnus  the  Good  out  of  Norway,  77it"8oi2 
— sudden  end  of  the  alliance  with  Harald,  8i7-83o  883.5 — puts 
himself  in  possession  of  Denmark  once  more,  886.14 — flees 
away  from  Denmark  once  again  before  the  combined  forces 
of  Kings  Magnus  and  Harald,  9021^3 — receives  by  Thorir  the 
last  will  of  K.  Magnus,  whereby  he  confers  on  Svein  the 
kingdom  of  Denmark,  9i10.17  93ir-94ti — Svein's  relations  to  K. 
HaraldHardredy,9410.16976-io24i2ols-i2i7 127-128— receives 
into  his  service  Hakon  Ivarson,  n616.26  473ie-i9 — likewise 
Finn  Arnison,  whom  he  creates  Earl,  i2  23.n  473ic-i9 — battle 
with  Harald  off  the  Niz  (river)  in  Lofafirth,  Svein  signally 
defeated,  i2914.19  1323-137 — escapes  under  the  name  of  Vand- 
rad  by  the  aid* of  Hakon  Ivarson,  1 38- i4°o  11-15  20-25  x44i5- 
I4512 — Svein  and  Karl  the  good  man  who  aided  him  in  escap- 
ing, i395.ll}  33-1404  I4213-i43n— peace  made  between  Svein 
and  Harald,  i4627-i4910 — K.  Svein  and  his  cousin,  earl  Tosti, 
1 5914-i  6o10— after  the  death  of  Harald,  Svein  breaks  the  peace 
with  Norway,  but  comes  to  terms  with  the  sons  of  Harald, 
i87u-i88s — his  death,  offspring  and  family  connections,  19419- 
i954  46393.25 

SVEINKI,"son  of  Steinar,  father  to  Ragnhild  the  mother  of 
Erling  Askew,  hi.  37i3.5 — fosterer  of  Hakon  the  son  of  Mag- 
nus the  son  of  Harald  Hardredy,  before  Thorir  of  Steig  took 
over  his  fostering,  2i410.14 — his  contest  and  peace  with  K. 
Magnus  Barefoot,  2i4lt5-22i8 

SVERRIR,  King  of  Norway  (reputed  son  of  K.  Sigurd  Mouth 
s.  of  Harald  Gilli),  quoted  as  an  authority  for  one  account  of 
the  death  of  King  Eystein,  s.  of  Harald  Gilli,  hi.  3963— -takes 
the  body  of  King  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  his  'brother,'  to 
Cheaping,  i.e.  Nidoyce,  and  laid  it  in  the  stone-wall  in  Christ's 
church,  4479.19 

SVERTING  (Svertingr),  son  of  Runolf  the  priest,  an  Icelander 
converted  to  Christianity  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  Nidoyce,  i. 
33422-23 — kept  as  hostage  with  other  nobles  of  Iceland  by  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  to  insure  the  conversion  to  Christianity  of  Ice- 
land, 35417.,0 

SWANHILD  (Svanhildr),  daughter  of  King  Eystein  of  Heath- 
mark,  one  of  Harald  Hairfair's  wives,  i.  1 1415-18 

SWASI  (Svasi),  a  Finnish  wizard,  father  of  Snowfair,  inveigles 
Harald  Hairfair  into  his  daughter's  power,  i.  119749 


202  Index  I  [swe — tha 

SWEDES  (Sviar),  properly  the  name  of  the  race  that  ruled  in 
the  middle  part  of  modern  Sweden  especially  round  the  Malar 
lake,  and  were  distinguished  from  the  Gauts  their  southern 
and  western  neighbours.  With  the  extension  of  the  sway  of 
the  Upsalakings  the  term  Sviar  underwent  a  similarly  extended 
application,  1.  45  30  2i25.30  229  10  13  19  23  233  18  249  19  2718  2910 
11 17  372o  3822  24  4°3  4^30  43i6  45i7  478  482  12  5}6  5214  19  25  5320 

23  55n  65u  10  66u  673  i63t  367s  9  3698  is  ig—&  5n  7io  8i7  ?o  24 
425  i62i  884  9i16  9820  9928  ii22  10  32  313^  32i24  323^  324l 

326,7  3283  39*14  3944  41320— m-.4i8 31  52i  6i5.i9  49i9  772s  27  781 
SWEGDIR,  son  of  Fiolnir,  and  his  successor  in  the  rule  of  the 

Swedes,  i.  2522.23 — spent  five  years  in  a  journey  to  Godhome, 
came  to  Turkland  and  Sweden  the  Great  (Magna  Scythia), 
found  there  friends  and  kindred,  and  married  Vana  of  Van- 
home,  2  524.31 — went  again  to  visit  Godhome,  and  in  that 
journey  was  inveigled  by  a  dwarf  to  enter  his  hollow  rock  in 
which  he  was  shut  up  and  he  never  came  back  again,  2  532- 
2  624 — cf.  i59x  and  39i35-3S — see  also  K.  Gislason's  Udvalg  af 
oldnordiske  Skjaldekvad,  6429.35 

SWINE-GRIM  (Svfna-Grimr),  maimed  by  Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon,  iii.  358.3.3 

SWIPDAG  (Svipdagr),  the  greatest  of  champions,  i.  3810.12  18 

SWIPDAG  THE  BLIND  (S.  blindi),  a  kinglet  who  ruled 
over  Tenthland,  fosterer  of  Ingjald  Evilheart,  i.  559-562 — his 
sons,  5830-594  6— his  death,  6i23.24 

SWOLNIR  (Svolnir),  one  of  Odin's  names,  Odin,  i.  2i825 

TEIT,  son  of  Isleif  (Teitr  Tsleifsson),  fostered  by  Hall  of  Hawk- 
dale,  where  he  lived  after  his  fosterer's  death,  was  the  teacher 
of  Ari  the  Historian,  and  told  him  manifold  lore,  i.  629.33 

TEIT  (Teitr),  an  Icelandic  noble,  son  of  Ketilbiorn,  father  to 
Gizur  the  White,  i.  334-27-28 

TEMPLEGARTH-REF,  foster-son  of  Gizur  Goldbrow,  an  Ice- 
landic poet,  stationed,  together  with  the  other  poets  at  his 
court,  by  the  side  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  within  his  shield-burgh 
in  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  so  that  they  might  be  eye-wit- 
nesses of  the  events  they  would  sing  of  afterwards,  ii.  40414.21 
— sings  of  the  fall  of  his  foster-father  in  the  battle  of  Stickle- 
stead, 43°21-88 

THANGBRAND  (frangbrandr) '  Dankbrand,'  a  Saxon  (German) 
priest  in   Olaf  Tryggvison's   service,   sent  by  the  king   to 


the — tho]  Index  I  203 

convert  Iceland  to  Christianity,  i.  615  32  35.12 — stayed  three 
winters  in  Iceland,  converted  many  chieftains  and  slew  three 
men,  32312.2ti — comes  back  to  Norway  and  assures  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison  that  "the  country  will  never  be  converted  to  Christianity, 
339l7^3 — but  the  Icelanders  in  the  king's  confidence  convince 
him  that  Thangbrand's  failure  was  owing  to  the  violence  of 
his  missionary  method,  3407-10 

TH  ELM  ARK  (They  of)  (feilir),'  inhabitants  of  the  folkland  of 
Norway  now  called  Telemarken,  i.  in5 

THIAZI  (pjazi),  a  giant,  i.  i66u 

THICK  MAN  (Hinn  digri  maftr),  mocking  name  by  which 
only  King  Olaf  Haraldson  might  be  named  at  the  court  of 
King  Olaf  of  Sweden,  ii.  84.^  97,.  9816 

THIODOLF,  son  of  Amor,  called  'Earls'  skald'  (jarla-skald), 
an  Icelandic  poet  at  the  court  of  K.  Magnus  the  Good  and  K. 
Harald  Sigurdson — his  songs  on  events  of  K.  Magnus's  reign : 

hi.  6-^q  l7.25  7 2-n  IO2-10  2°15-24  2  72-10  16-25  27-35  3  r  10-18  3 2 1019  24-33 
3614-00  30"37o  3820-24  4°7-15  22"4I4  14-18  2S~428  10-18  20-24  26-33  43513  22" 
44e  11-27  454-20  4611-19  22-31  47215  17-26  31~486  8-16  1S~49:  11-19  5 x  10-18 

— his  songs  on  events  of  fiarald's  reign:  5710.18  637.16  7 1 2.10 

74ll-W  77o..r786  8o4-12  83l-10  IO7l01S  I292rI3°6  10-34  I3I4-12  14-23 
26-34  I332-6  8-16  I3528"I364  I37l3-17  24-31  J479-24  28-35  ^^KlZ  J49l-8 
I523-U   I54l.s  13-22  27-31  I55l-8  I752S-36  I77lt>24  l84o(3-30  l8 56-14  18-22 

THOR  (porr),  one  of  Odin's  '  Diar,'  dwelt,  on  coming  to  Sweden, 
at  Thundermead,  i.  i62S.29 — his  name  given  to  children,  1925-26 
— making  the  sign  of  his  hammer  (hamars-mark)  over  a  cup 
before  drinking  it,  done  only  by  such  as  trust  in  their  own 
might  and  main,  i.  i6920.22 — regarded  as  the  chief  god  of  the 
Norwegian  people  by  the  poet  Einar  Jingle-scale,  a  court  poet 
to  Earl  Hakon,  when  he  says  that  Earl  Hakon  left  all  temple- 
lands  ofEinridi  (  =  Thor)  and  the  other  gods,  once  harried,  free 
for  the  people's  religious  exercises,  2428.n  cf.  2oill7.18 — in  the 
temple  of  Mere  he  sat  '  the  most  honoured  of  all  the  gods, 
adorned  with  gold  and  silver,'  which  image  Olaf  Tryggvison 
smote  down,  his  men  doing  the  same  to  the  images  of  other 
gods,  32o23.30 — a  temple  consecrated  to  him  at  Hof  in  northern 
Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  2oi1().23  32 — his  image  there  and  daily  cult 
described,  2o57.15 — destruction  of  image  and  worship  together, 
2O730-2o8t;  12.22 

THORA  ()p6ra),  has  by  K.  Magnus  Barefoot  a  son,  Sigurd 


204  Index  I  [tho 

Jerusalem-farer,  iii.  23310.n — her  cruelty  to  the  serving  lad 
Kolbein,  3029.26 

THORA,  a  workwoman  of  Simon,  son  of  Thorberg,  becomes, 
by  K.  Sigurd  s.  of  Harald  Gilli,  mother  to  K.  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad,  iii.  3736-19 

THORA,  daughter  of  Guthorm  Greybeard,  becomes  by  K. 
Harald  Gilli  mother  to  K.  Sigurd  Mouth,  iii.  314-22-23 

THORA  (p6ra),  daughter  of  K.  Hakon  the  Good,  i.  i88n 

THORA,  daughter  of  Joan,  had  by  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet  a  son, 
Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  1953.5 — married  (?)  Bryniolf  Camel,  and 
with  him  had  issue,  Skialdvor  and  Haldor,  48i10.13 

THORA  MOST-STAFF  (p.  mostrstong),  of  the  kin  of  Horda- 
kari,  a  native  of  the  island  of  Most,  and  a  serving  maid  at 
K.  Har.  Hairfair's  court,  mother  of  Hakon,  afterwards  K.  H. 
the  Good  of  Norway,  i.  138^.^ 

THORA  OF  RIMUL,  'a  wealthy  dame,'  one  of  Earl  Hakon's 
greatest  favourites,  i.  2g219.21 — hides  Earl  Hakon  from  his 
enemies  at  her  manor  of  Rimul  in  a  hole  dug  out  under  a 
pigsty,  2947.29 

THORA,  daughter  of  Saxi  in  Wick,  the  mother,  on  her  own 
evidence,  by  K.  Magnus  Barefoot  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon, 

iii-  336i9-2o  337t-s  .  .    , 

THORA,  a  daughter  of  Skagi  Skoptison,  married  to  Hakon, 

the  Earl  of  Ladir,  i.  2473^ 
THORA,   daughter  of  Skopti   Ogmundson,  wife  of  Asolf  of 

Rein,  iii.  i8410.n  2  2531 
THORA,  daughter  of  Thorberg  the  son  of  Ami  and  of  Ragnhild 

daughter  of  Erling  Skialgson,  baptized  by  Bard,  and  held  at 

the  font  by  Stein  Skaptison,  who  gave  her  a  finger-ring,  ii. 

28oG.31 — married  to  Harald  Sigurdson,  their  sons,  iii.  9619.23 

— remains  in  Norway  on  Harald's  going  on  the  expedition  to 

England,  i65o0 
THORA,  daughter  of  Thorstein  Gallows,  married  to  Ami,  son 

of  Arnmod,  ii.  i9815.l7 
THORALD  (poraldi),  a  king's  steward  at  the  manor  of  Howe, 

his  report  to  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  as  to  the  heathen  life  of  the 

men  of  Upper-Thrandheim,  ii.  i953o_I974 
THORALD  CHAPS  (p.  keptr),  slain  by  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon, 

iii.  35707 
THORALF  (p6ralfr),  [son  of  Sigmund  Brestison],  of  Dimon 


THO] 


Index  I  205 


goes,  summoned  byOlafHaraldson,  with  many  representatives 
of  the  Faroe  people  to  Norway  and  becomes  one  of  the  king's 
household  and  bodyguard,  and  with  the  rest  agrees  to  the 
subjection  of  Faroe  to  Norwegian  rule,  ii.  246^-247.^— goes 
again  at  the  summons  of  the  king  to  Norway,  followed  by  the 
foster-sons  of  Thrand  o'  Gate  in  another  ship;  both  ships 
landing,  at  a  short  distance  from  each  other,  at  the  island  of 
Herna  in  Norway,  Thoralf  is  slain  there,  after  nightfall,  the 
suspicion  falling  on  Thrand  o'Gate's  foster-son  Sigurd  Thorlak- 
son,  2693-272., 
THORALF  SKOLMSON  THE  STRONG  (]).  hinn  sterki 
Skolmsson),  (his  father's  full  name  was  ftorbjorn  Skolmr), 
fought  beside  K.  Hakon  the  Good  in  the  battle  of  Fitjar,  i. 

l84i9-33  l85l-3  l86H-lt;  19  .  ,        .     .. 

THORAR  (porarr),  a  'lawman'  m  Jamtland,  11.  295^— his 
dealings  with  Thorod  Snorrison  and  his  following,  295^2 98*. 

THORARIN  (porarinn),  the  origin  of  the  name,  i.  i925.2,; 

THORARIN  CURTFELL  (b.  stuttfeldr),  an  Icelandic  poet, 
sings  of  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  departure  for  Palestine, 
iii.  24826-2496 — of  the  king's  successful  stratagem  before  a 
cave  in  the  island  of  Forminterra  occupied  by  Africans,  2  5414.22 
— the  origin  of  his  nickname,  2  86r.14 — his  adventures  at  the 
court  of  K.  Sigurd,  2867-2885— gets  into  K.  Sigurd's  favour 
for  a  'drapa'  on  him,  288^ 

THORARIN,  son  of  Nefiolf,  one  of  the  captains  of  Icelandic 
ships  whom  Olaf  Tryggvison  christened  together  with  Kiartan 
Olafson,  i.  33513.20  337i5-is — personal  description  and  char- 
acter, ii.  i33312 — his  stay  at  Tunsberg  with  King  Olaf  Harald- 
son,  a  wager  laid  by  the  king  and  taken  by  Thorarin,  on  the 
ugliness  of  the  latter's  foot,  i3313-i342f>— losing  his  wager  he 
has  to  bring  the  blind  King  Roerek  to  Greenland  or  Iceland 
as  chance  might  decide,  and  hands  him  over  to  Thorgils 
Arison  of  Reek-knolls  in  Iceland,  1343^136^ — appointed 
one  of  King  Olaf's  bodyguard,  i357.14 — abets  the  family  of 
Krling  Skialgson  in  saving  Asbiorn  Seal's-bane  from  King 
Olaf's  wrath,  2 243-2 2 712—  sent  by  King  Olaf  on  a  political 
mission  to  Iceland,  with  the  object  of  incorporating  the  island 
in  the  realm  of  Norway,  a  plan  which,  though  favoured  by 
Gudmund  the  Mighty,  was  foiled  by  the  opposition  of  Einar 
Eyolfson,  Gudmund's  brother,   2427-244 — again  Th.  brings 


206  Index  I  [tho 

forth  another  message  from  King  Olaf  to  the  effect,  that  cer- 
tain chief  men  of  the  island  should  go  abroad  to  meet  King 
Olaf,  an  invitation  to  which  no  effect  was  given  by  the 
suspicious  chieftains  of  Iceland,  2453-246^ 
THORARIN  PRAISETOUNGE  (p.  loftunga),  an  Icelandic 
poet,  spent  long  time  with  kings  and  other  lords  (as  their  court 
poet),  and  comes  to  K.  Knut  the  Mighty,  whom  he  offends 
by  composing  a  short  poem  on  him,  a  fault  he  makes  amends 
for  by  composing  'Head-ransom,'  a  longer  poem,  ii.  35on.2g 
— wrought  on  Knut's  expedition  from  Denmark  to  Norway 
the  song  called  Togdrapa,  35039-3  5 2 is- wrought  on  Svein 
Alfiva's  son  the  song  called  'Seacalm's-lay,'  wherein  he  also 
celebrates  the  miracles  taking  place  at  Holy  Olaf's  tomb, 

449-n  33  45^3"4^°i4 
THORARIN  SKEGGISON,  Icelandic  skald,  author  of  a  drapa 

on  K.  Harald  the  Hardredy,  iii.  74.5-10 
THORBERG  (p6rbergr),  son  of  Ami  Arnmodson,  married  to 
Ragnhild,  d.  of  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli,  ii.  2426.2?  198^— their 
children :  Thora,  queen  of  Harald  Hardredy,  iii.  96i?-22  and 
Eystein  Heathcock,  i7o20.21— in  his  absence  from  his  home 
in  the  isle  of  Giski  Stein  Skaptison,  K.  Olaf's  criminal,  turns 
up  and  receives  promise  of  protection  from  Ragnhild  which 
it  cost  Thorberg  much  trouble  to  fulfil,  ii.  280^0  28i9.10  14- 
286l7 — obtains,  by  the  aid  of  his  brothers,  pardon  for  Stein 
and  himself  and  swears  an  oath  of  faith  and  fealty  to  the  king, 
2844-28621 — accompanies  K.  Olaf  on  his  flight  from  Norway, 
369„4 — wounded  in  the  battle  of  Sticklestead  and  taken  care 
of  by  his  br.  Ami  at  Eggja,  43523-4365— convalescent,  he  re- 
turns home  and  makes  peace  with  K.  Svein  Alfiva's  son, 
453si8 — J°^ns  h*s  Drotners  m  covert  opposition  to  K.  Svein, 
46 2 16.29—  assembled  at  Giski  they  take  counsel  together  for 

the  future,  463*0-94 

THORBERG  SHx\VE-HEWER  (p.  skafhogg),  a  master  ship- 
wright, the  builder  of  the  Long-Worm,  Olaf  Tryggvison's 
great  war  galley,  i.  343<f34425 

THORBERG  of  Varness  (p.  af  Varnesi),  one  of  eight  lords  of 
Thrandheim  who  conspired  to  force  K.  Hakon  the  Good  to 
join  in  heathen  sacrifice,  i.  i7°ig-i7 

THORBIORN  (porbjorn),  son  of  Gunnar  Rentmaster,  a  fol- 
lower of  K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  iii.  44Ii4-i 


1 14-15 


THO] 


Index  I  207 


THORBIORN  HORNKLOFI,  one  of  King  Harald  Fairhair's 
court  poets,  author  of  Glymdrapa,  i.  99;..,(;  100^  109^  21.29 

IIO2.10   II24-II30   I  14-24-30   Il62-10 

THORBIORN  RENTMASTER  (gjaldkeri),  in  command  of 
K.  Magnus  Erlingson's  forces  at  Biorgvin,  iii.  45705 

THORBIORN  SKALD-ASKEW  (p.  Skakka  skald)^  or  rather 
Askew's  skald,  author  of  a  drapa  on  Erling  Askew,  iii.  3728.17 

44°n-_w  4603cf46  Js 
THORD  (porSr),  on  board  a  ship  in  Harald  Hardredy's  fleet 

lying  bound  for  England,  his  dream,  iii.  164^33 
THORD  BIGBELLY  (p.  istrumagi),  a  captain  of  the  folk  of 

Gudbrandsdale  in  their  strife  against  King  Olaf  Haraldson's 

missionary  activity,  ii.  20304.07  20527-2o63 
THORD,  son  of  Bork  (son  of  Thorstein  Codbiter,  see  Ere- 

dwellers'  saga,  Saga  Library,  2  Genealogies,  i.),  for  some  time 

a  member  of  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  household,  ii.  24i0o.26 
THORD,  son   of  F61i  (p.  Folason),   King  Olaf  Haraldson's 

banner-bearer,  ii.  i28o3-i3o14i2o3-4i344294.8 — his  fall,  43o18.21 

— father  of  Gudrun,  who  was  married  to  Skopti,  son  of  Og- 

mund,  iii.  22529 
THORD  FREY^S  priest  (p.  FreysgoSi),  father  of  Kolbein  and 

Burning-Flosi,  i.  334-21-22 
THORD,  son  of  Guthorm,  of  Steig  in  northern  Gudbrandsdale, 

the  mightiest  man  of  those  parts,  woos  and  obtains  in  marriage 

Isrid,  d.  of  Gudbrand,  K.  Olaf 's  aunt,  and  becomes  K.  Olaf 's 

dearest  friend,  ii.  24809-2499  [same  as  Th.  Bigbelly?] 
THORD,   son  of   Horda-Kari,   father  of  Klypp  the   Hersir, 

i-    2  I  520-21  3°328 

THORD  HOUSEWIFE,  courtman  of  King  Sigurd  son  of 
Harald  Gilli,  slain  at  Biorgvin  in  an  affray  between  Kings 
Sigurd  and  Ingi,  iii.  38927.31 

THORD,  son  of  Kolbein,  an  Icel.  poet,  author  of  Eric's  drapa, 

'•    27323-30    2744-12    275l4-22    27723-31    29920-3OO4    345l4-80    373512 

37^2-19 — "•  267-15  20-34 — spends  some  time  in  the  household 
(bodyguard)  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  24iy2.96 
THORD  THE  LOW  (p.  hinn  lagi),  son  ofT  horlak  the  brother 
of  Thrand  o'  Gate,  personal  description,  ii.  269.,,^— goes  with 
his  brother  Sigurd,  at  Thrand's  egging-on,  to  Norway  in  pur- 
suit of  Thoralf  of  Dimon,  who  on  landing  in  Norway  is  mys- 
teriously murdered,  2  7or2  7412 — aids  Gaut  the  Red  in  taking 


208  Index  I  [tho 

the  life  of  Karl  o'  Mere,  3O910.19— is  outlawed  for  the  mis- 
deed, 3O920.26 
THORD  of  Niordlow,  stationed  in  the  fore-hold  of  the  Long- 
Worm,  i.  353h  v  , 
THORD  SIAREKSON  (p.  Sjareksson),  Icel.  poet,  author  of 
a  drapa  on  Thoralf  Skolmson,  i.   i8423.33  I^7i9-35  anc*  °^  a 
death-song  on  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  ii.  32  3l7„6 
THORD   SIGVALDI'S  SKALD  (p.  Sigvaldaskald),  an  Ice- 
landic poet,  father  to  Sigvat  the  poet  and  trusted  counsellor 
of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  spent  a  long  time  with  Earl  Sigvaldi 
of  Jomsburg  and  later  with  his  brother  Thorkel,  fell  in  with 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson  in  his  western  warfare  and  remained  with 
him  ever  afterwards,  ii.  5i6.24  iii-  i2lti 
THORD,  son  of  Skopti  Ogmundson  and  Gudrun  d.  of  Thord 
the  son  of  Foli,  iii.  2  2  527.31 — accompanies  his  father  on  his 
pilgrimage  to  Rome  and  dies  in  Sicily,  2  377.15 
THORD  SKOTAKOLL(skotakollr),  a  sister's  son  of  Sigvat  the 
Skald,  sent  on  a  secret  mission  to  Earl  Rognvald  to  advise  him 
of  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  acceptance  of  the  Earl's  proposal  to 
take  Astrid,  d.  of  K.  Olaf  of  Sweden,  for  wife,  ii.  i5I25_I523 
THORD  THE  YELLER  (p.  gellir,  son  of  Olaf  Feilan),  a  chief 

of  Broadfirth  in  Iceland,  i.  269^ 
THORDIS  SKEGGJA  (pdrdis  skeggja),  a  sorceress,  got  by 
Gunnhild,  K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad's  fostermother,  to  '  sit 
out '  in  order  to  find  out,  how  Hakon  might  come  off  victori- 
ous in  his  contest  with  K.  Ingi,  iii.  4245.12 
THORFIN  EISLI  (porfinnr  eisli)  of  Inner-Thrandheim,  a  fore- 
castle man  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  3S3w 
THORFIN  MOUTH  (p.  munnr),  an  Icelandic  poet  with  K. 
Olaf  Haraldson  at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  ii.  404.^— sings  a 
stave,  40520,28 — slain  in  the  battle,  43o22 
THORFIN," Earl  of  Caithness,  Sutherland  and  Orkney,  f  1064, 
son  of  Sigurd  the  Thick,  Earl  of  Orkney,  by  his  second  wife,  a 
daughter  of  Malcolm  II.,  King  of  Scotland,  ii.  i6927.29 — 
[married  Ingibiorg,  d.  of  Finn  Arnison,  called  'Earls'  mother,' 
niece  of  Kalf  Arnison,  their  sons]  Paul  and  Erlend,  iii.  1 663.4  cf. 
1  J9i8-2i — Placecl>  five  years  old,  with  his  grandfather,  when  Earl 
Sigurd  went  on  his  ill-starred  expedition  to  Ireland,  ii.  1 70^ — 
made  by  his  grandfather  Earl  of  Caithness  and  Sunderland, 
I7°8-i2 — personal  description,  i7o12.22 — on  the  death  of  his 


THO] 


Index  I  209 


brother,  Summerlid,  Thorfin  lays  claim  to  his  share,  one  third, 
of  Orkney,  but  Einar,  his  brother,  possesses  himself  thereof 
with  a  high  hand,  i7iM1 — bestirs  himself  with  an  armed  force 
to  follow  up  his  claim  to  his  share  in  Orkney,  which  by  Brusi's 
intervention,  is  peaceably  covenanted  to  him,  I73H-I7413 — 
feud  renewed  between  Thorfin  and  Einar  on  the  latter's  driv- 
ing away  from  the  islands  Thorfin's  tax-gatherer,  1 75s-2o — 
Thorfin  brings  the  matter  to  the  cognisance  of,  and  goes  him- 
self to  see,  the  King  of  Norway,  i-7S2o'l7^i9 — returning  to 
Orkney  he  comes,  by  Brusi's  intervention,  again  to  peaceful 
terms  with  Einar,  i7619.25 — Thorfin's  and  Brusi's  dispute  over 
the  sharing  of  Orkney  after  the  death  of  Earl  Einar,  settled 
by  Olaf  of  Norway,  so  that  both  held  their  respective  shares 
in  fief  of  Norway's  king,  17803-185.3 19911.13 — Thorfin  forgives 
Thorkel  Amundson  the  murder  of  his  brother,  Earl  Einar, 
and  appoints  him  commander  of  his  forces,  i853-i868 — Thor- 
fin undertakes  the  defence  of  Orkney  against  vikings  by 
Brusi  ceding  to  him  one  half  of  his  dominion,  i87<,0-i8810 — 
his  character,  length  of  his  reign,  his  death,  i88n.24 — Kalf 
Arnison  with  him  in  the  Orkneys,  iii.  ii91801 

THORFIN  SKULL-CLEAVER  (J),  hausakljufr),  earl  of  Ork- 
ney, son  of  Turf-Einar,  dispossessed  by  the  sons  of  Eric  Blood- 
axe,  i.  1 5409-155.5  h.  i694.7 — resumes  the  earldom  of  Orkney 
on  Gunnhild,  with  her  sons,  leaving  the  isles  for  Denmark, 
I59i6-is  cf-  ii-  *  68.27.3! — died  of  sickness,  his  sons  ruling  over 
the  land  after  him,  i.  24i24.26  ii.  i698.9 

THORFIN  THE  SWART  (p.  svarti)!  of  Snos,  a  partisan  of 
Eystein  the  son  of  K.  Eystein  the  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii. 
483.7.2 — falls  at  Re,  4860.10 

THORGAUT  HARELIP  (porgautr  skarSi),  a  joint  leader  with 
his  brother,  Asgaut  Bailiff,  of  a  mission  of  four-and-twenty 
men  sent  by  K.  Olaf  the  Swede  to  gather  the  taxes  he  laid 
claim  to  in  Norway,  ii.  6924.28 — failure  of  their  negotiations 
with  the  Thrandheimers,  69^-70^  —  unavailing  interview 
with  King  Olaf,  7o1G-724 — refused  further  interviews  by  King 
Olaf,  725.12 — Thorgaut  returns  with  some  of  his  following  back 
to  Sweden,  7213.17 — hears,  before  he  quits  Thrandheim  how 
his  brother  with  his  following  was  hanged  by  K.  Olaf's  Guests 
and  brings  the  news  east  to  King  Olaf  the  Swede,  7227.31 — 
attacks  Gudleik  the  Garthrealmer  and  slays  him  and  robs  his 
vi.  p 


210  Index  I  [tho 

and  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  goods,  8223.32 — but  is  attacked  in 
turn  by  Eyvind  Urochshorn  and  slain,  and  the  robbed  pro- 
perty is  restored  to  Olaf  Haraldson,  8221-8315 

THORGEIR  AFRADSKOLL  (porgeirr  afra^skollr),  lived  at 
Nidness,  995,  Odd  Kolson's  source  for  the  history  of  the 
Kings  of  Norway,  Odd  being,  in  turn,  the  source  of  Ari  the 
Learned's  '  Lives '  of  Norw.  Kings,  i.  66.9 

THORGEIR,  a  lord  of  the  Wick,  married  Ingirid  the  d.  of 
Lodin  and  Astrid  K.  Olaf  Tryggvison's  mother,  i.  30i12.15 — 
aids  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  christening  the  Wick,  30212-3032 — 
joins  Olaf  Tryggvison's  expedition  to  Wendland,  358^-12 

THORGEIR,  chaplain  of  John's  Church,  Nidoyce,  hi.  48iir 

THORGEIR,  a  steward  of  a  royal  manor  in  Orkdale,  witnesses 
how  King  Olaf  Haraldson  rebuked  Stein  Skaptison  for  his 
disloyalty,  ii.  27800-279^ — slain  by  Stein  for  refusing  him 
means  of  travelling  on  running  away  from  the  King's  court, 

279fr23 

THORGEIR  FLECK  (p.  flekkr),  a  goodman  of  Sula  in  Vera- 
dale,  devoted  to  the  cause  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  ii.  3973-39815 
— exposes  the  traitors  at  K.  Magnus  Olafson's  court,  and  re- 
ceives the  King's  friendship  in  return,  hi.  i821-i920 

THORGEIR,  son  of  Havar,  for  a  while  a  member  of  king 
Olaf  Haraldson's  household,  ii.  24i22.27 

THORGEIR  of  Kviststead,  a  landed-man,  his  altercation  with 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson  at  Sticklestead,  ii.  426^-42 76 — slain  by  K. 
Olaf  in  the  battle,  43o10.l7 — his  lands  confiscated  by  K.  Mag- 
nus the  Good,  hi.  21^.^ 

THORGEIR  LEECH,  the  son  of  Stone,  hi.  365^ 

THORGILS  (porgils),  son  of  Ari,  a  renowned  lord  [of  Reek- 
knolls]  on  the  northern  side  of  Broadfirth  in  Iceland,  keeps 
the  blinded  king  Rcerek  for  one  winter,  as  King  Olaf  Harald- 
son's prisoner,  ii.  1369.00 

THORGILS,  son  of  Gellir  (p.  Gellisson),  father  to  Ari  the 

Learned,  i.  SiT-is 
THORGILS,  son  of  Halma,  the  goodman  of  Sticklestead,  offers 
to  fight  on  the  side  of  Olaf  Haraldson,  but  is  requested  by 
him  to  help  the  wounded  rather  and,  in  case  of  his  falling, 
to  do  the  needful  service  to  his  dead  body,  ii.  410^-41  in — 
he  and  his  son  remove  the  body  from  the  battlefield  to  a 
little  out-house,  wash  it,  swathe  it  in  linen,  and  cover  it  up 


tho]  Index  I  211 

with  wood  (faggots),  4443.14 — again,  in  consequence  of  an 
accident  which  they  feared  might  lead  to  the  discovery  of  it 
by  the  king's  enemies,  they  remove  it  into  the  meadow  and 
hide  it  there,  445o4.3] — they  make  a  coffin  to  the  body,  and  a 
dummy  coffin  as  well,  filled  with  stones  and  straw,  the  weight 
of  a  man,  44.722-29 — they  take  both  coffins  down  to  Nidoyce 
on  board  a  boat,  and  deliver  the  dummy  chest  to  bishop 
Sigurd's  men,  but  under  cover  of  the  darkness  of  night, 
they  rowed  up  the  river  Nid  to  Saurlithe,  and  bore  the  chest 
into  a  waste  shed  there,  and  waked  over  the  body  through  the 
night,  44730-448.28 — next  they  took  the  body  still  further  up 
the  river  and  buried  it  in  a  sand-hill  near  the  bank,  and 
went  back  to  Sticklestead,  448.^-4497 — at  bishop  Grimkel's 
request,  they  give  evidence  as  to  what  happened  to  the  body 
while  in  their  charge,  454^-45  54 

THORGILS,  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  and,  apparently,  Gyda, 
daughter  of  Eric,  King  of  Hordland,  i.  ii410 — proclaimed 
king  by  his  father,  i3ils — furnished  with  warships  by  his 
father,  he  warred  in  Scotland,  Wales  and  Ireland,  and  won 
Dublin,  and  became  king  thereover,  and  was  betrayed  by  the 
Irish,  i3221.2S 

THORGILS  ODDISON  of  Saurby  in  Western  Iceland,  his  re- 
lations to  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  3384-33993 

THORGILS,  son  of  Snorri,  '  said  that  he  saw  the  altar-cloth 
which  was  made '  of  a  cloak  that  Harald  Hardredy  gave  to 
Steig-Thorir,  iii.  8631-873 

THORGILS  SPRAKALEGG,  father  of  Earl  Wolf,  the  brother- 
in-law  of  King  Knut  the  Mighty,  ii.  267.„.05 

THORGILS,  son  of  Thorolf  Lousebeard,  six  winters  old  when 
Olaf  Tryggvison  was  born,  i.  224n.12 — seized  by  vikings,  and 
sold  into  slavery  in  Esthonia,  together  with  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
22 9o-i« — bought,  together  with  Olaf,  by  the  latter's  uncle, 
Sigurd  Ericson,  and  brought  to  Holmgarth,  2305.7 

THORGNYR  (porgnyr),  a  lawman  of  Tenthland,  grandfather  of 
Thorgnyr  the  famous  lawman,  ii.  n319 

THORGNYR,  son  of  Thorgnyr,  lawman  of  Tenthland,  father 
to  the  following,  ii.  ii319 

THORGNYR,  son  of  Thorgnyr,  a  mighty  lawman  of  Tenth- 
land  in  Sweden,  an  old  man,  surrounded  by  a  court,  the 
wisest   man  in  Sweden,  akin   to  and  foster-father  of  Earl 


2 1 2  Index  I  [tho 

Rognvald  of  West-Gautland,  ii.  ii317..25 — description  of  his 
manorial  residence,  household  ways  and  person,  n6l7.31 — his 
reception  of  Earl  Rognvald  and  Biorn  the  Marshal,  n6l7_22 
29.31 — conference  on  the  question  of  peace  between  Norway 
and  Sweden,  Thorgnyr  giving  the  Earl  his  word  that  the 
Swede-king  shall  listen  to  their  pleadings,  1 1 73-i  i86 — he  rides 
to  Upsala-Thing,  where  he  sits  opposite  to  the  King,  sur- 
rounded by  his  house-carles,  and  supported  by  the  throng  of 
the  bonders,  n8?.23 — his  famous  speech  to  his  king,  which 
resulted  in  Olaf  the  Swede's  giving  way,  so  as  to  consent  to 
peace  being  established  between  the  two  countries,  and  his 
daughter  Ingigerd  being  betrothed  to  Olaf  of  Norway,  i2o12- 

I22lg 

THORGRIM  SKINHOOD  ()?orgrimr  skinnhufa),  one  of  King 
Magnus  Barefoot's  landed  men,  runs  away  from  the  king  in 
his  last  and  fatal  action  with  the  Irish,  hi.  24i27-24210 

THORGRIM,  son  of  Thiodolf  of  Hvin,  stationed  in  the  fore- 
hold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35313 

THORGUNNA  (Thorgunnr,  daughter  of  Veseti  of  Borgund- 
holm),  married  to  Aki  Palnatoki's  son,  their  son  Vagn,  i. 

27o3o 
THORIR  (}?6rir),  origin  of  the  name,  1.  i925.26 

THORIR,  an  outlaw  in  Jamtland,  married  to  the  sister  of 
Arnlj6t  Gellini,  befriends  Thorod  Snorrison  when  flying  for 
his  life  from  Thorar,  lawman  of  Jamtland,  ii.  298^-299^ 

THORIR,  (half-)brother  of  King  Magnus  the  Good,  sent  by 
Magnus  with  his  last  will  to  Svein  Wolfson  conferring  on  him 
the  kingdom  of  Denmark,  iii.  9i10-i5  94i-e 

THORIR  BARNACLE  (p.  helsingr),  captain  of  the  Veerings 
in  Constantinople,  iii.  43o.,5.30 

THORIR  BEARD  (j).  skegg),  one  of  eight  lords  of  Thrand- 
heim  combined  to  force  K.  Hakon  the  Good  to  join  in 
heathen  festivals,  i.  i7o20 

THORIR,  son  of  Erling  Skialgson  of  Soli  and  Astrid,  daughter 
of  King  Tryggvi  Olafson,  ii.  2426 — goes  in  a  craft  of  twenty 
benches  to  aid  his  brother-in-law,  Thorberg,  against  Olaf 
Haraldson  in  the  affair  of  Stein  Skaptison,  28303-2843  28621.22 

THORIR  FAXI  (]).  faxi),  a  thrall  of  King  Eystein  the  Mighty, 
or  the  Evil,  i.  i6i05 

THORIR,  son  of  Gudbrand,  sent  by  King  Olaf  Haraldson  with 


THO] 


Index  I  213 


a  message  of  peace  to  the  franklins  assembled  from  Orkdale 
and  Gauldale  to  oppose  his  advance  into  Thrandheim,  ii.  477.15 

THORIR  HART  (J),  hjortr),  of  Vogar,  of  Halogaland,  com- 
mands in  the  centre  of  the  fleet  in  the  battle  of  Hiorung- 
wick,  i.  2  7710 — leads  a  revolt  in  Halogaland  against  Olaf 
Tryggvison's  project  to  christen  the  people,  3091{V23 — fights 
Olaf  on  coming  into  Halogaland,  is  arrested  in  his  flight  by 
the  dog  Vigi,  and  slain  by  the  king,  329^-33023 

THORIR  HELSING(p.  helsingr),  a  son's  son  of  Ketil  Jamti, 
fled  to  the  east  from  Jamtland  on  account  of  manslaughters, 
and  was  the  first  to  colonize  the  countrysides  afterwards 
called  Helsingland,  i.  i62O5.30  ii.  27612.14 

THORIR  HOUND  (p.  hundr),  son  of  Thorir  (cf.  '  Sigurd,  son 
of  Thorir  and  brother  to  Thorir  Hound,'  ii.  2i41(Hr),  a  landed 
man  of  Birchisle  in  Halogaland,  ii.  I92i5-i7  2I4it-is — father 
of  Sigurd,  the  father  of  Ranveig,  wife  of  Joan  Arnison;  their 
children  Vidkum,  Sigurd  Hound,  Erling,  Jartrud,  iii.  i7iou 
— Thorir's  sister  Sigrid  married  to  Olvir  of  Eggia,  ii.  34I5-7 
— more  accounted  of  than  his  brother  (Sigurd)  because  he 
was  the  king's  landed  man,  2i425.26 — jeers  his  nephew  Asbiorn 
for  the  outrageous  treatment  he  received  at  the  hands  of  Seal- 
Thorir,  2  2o13.33 — persuades  Asbiorn  to  break  covenant  with 
King  Olaf  Haraldson,  230.^-2  3 114— has  to  give  up,  by  order 
of  the  king,  one  half  of  his  bailiwick  over  Halogaland  into 
the  hands  of  Asmund  Grankelson,  237,5.25— egged  on  by  Si- 
grid,  his  sister-in-law,  to  avenge  the  slaying  of  her  son  Asbiorn, 
2  3913-24o4— learns  in  time  that  Asbiorn's  slayer  was  the  king's 
bailiff,  Asmund  Grankelson,  24o14.27— awaiting  his  chance  of 
revenge,  when  he  hears  of  Karli's  trading  voyage  to  Biarm- 
land  in  partnership  with  the  king,  Thorir  joins  him  unbidden 
with  a  longship  manned  with  some  eighty  men,  258.^-2596 — 
incidents  of  the  journey  until  he  slays  the  king's  partner,  2  597- 
26503— his  dealings  with  Gunnstein,  Karli's  brother,  after  the 
slaying  of  the  latter,  26534-26623 — his  dealings  with  Finn  Ar- 
nison  when  brought  to  justice  by  him  in  the  king's  name, 
28720-2  9i3— he  leaves  Norway  with  all  the  proceeds  of  his 
journey  to   Biarmland,  and  joins  King  Knut   in  England, 
29i4.28— with    Knut    in    England   in    much   favour,    33S,,.j0 
19.20— accompanies  K.  Knut  in  his  expedition  to  Norway,  is 
present  when  he  is  proclaimed  king  in  Thrandheim,  and  be- 


214  Index  I  [tho 

comes  Knut's  landed  man,  348-3493 — reported  by  Biorn  the 
Marshal  to  King  Olaf  as  a  leader  of  the  general  revolt  in 
Norway,  38 13 — gathers  measureless  wealth  by  his  'Finn- 
journey,'  38710.o4 — his  reindeer  coats  wrought  with  wizardry, 
38725.2S — brings  a  great  muster  of  men  out  of  Halogaland 
against  K.  Olaf,  387.^-3884  s.u — refuses  to  take  the  chief  com- 
mand in  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  420^-42 1.20 — ranges  him- 
self and  his  men  under  the  standard  of  Kalf  Arnison,  his 
brother-in-law,  42221.24  4239.13 — Thorir  and  Thorstein  Ship- 
wright, 424^2 — marches  in  the  rear  to  the  battle  in  order  to 
prevent  desertions,  42  522.26 — marches  to  the  front  and  leads 
the  attack  at  Sticklestead^  42  71(H4 — Thorir's  fight  with  King 
Olaf  and  his  guards,  deals  the  king  his  death  wound,  43I3o" 
433i5 — takes  part  in  the  fight  with  Day  Ring's  son,  434i2-u — 
deals  reverently  with  the  dead  body  of  K.  Olaf,  whose  blood 
heals  a  wound  Thorir  had  received,  4353.15 — the  first  of  K. 
Olaf's  foes  to  uphold  his  holiness,  43516.o0 — his  pursuit,  at  the 
request  of  the  Verdalers,  of  the  Swedish  fugitives  from  the 
battle,  43634-437-27— he  returns  to  his  ships,  43727-29  4463i-32 — 
inquires  in  vain  for  K.  Olaf  s  body,  446 — goes  on  a  pilgrimage 
to  Jerusalem,  from  which  he  never  returned,  iii.  i76.9 — his 
descendants,  i710.14 

THORIR  HVINANTORDI,  defeated  by  Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon,  iii.  3547-11 

THORIR,  son  of  Ingirid,  counsels  K.  Magnus  the  Blind  in 
vain  to  keep  his  force  in  the  Wick  to  observe  the  movements 
of  Harald  Gilli  after  the  battle  of  Fyrileif,  iii.  3i8l>1G 

THORIR  KLAKKA,  sent  by  Earl  Hakon  to  the  West  to 
ascertain  who  OH  the  Garthrealmer  might  be,  and  to  betray 
him  in  case  he  was  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  289^ — finds  Olaf 
out,  persuades  him  to  go  to  Norway,  and  joins  his  company, 
but  finds,  on  his  return,  Hakon  gone  into  hiding,  and  all 
Thrandheim  in  revolt  against  the  Earl,  289^-29133 

THORIR  THE  LONG  (p.  langi),  the  captain  of  King  Olaf 
Haraldson's  constabulary,  the  Guests,  assassinates,  at  the 
King's  bidding,  EiliftheGautlander,ii.  7725-789 — is  despatched 
in  pursuit  of  the  escaped  blind  king  Rcerek,  whom  he  cap- 
tures, losing  his  life  at  the  same  time,  1 306.23 

THORIR  LONGCHIN  (p.  haklangr),  fought  against  Harald 
Hairfair  in  the  battle  of  Hafursfirth,  and  fell  there,  i.  iii10-3i 


THO] 


Index  I  215 


THORIR,  son  of  Olvir  of  Eggia  and  of  Sigrid,  d.  of  Thorir, 
and  sister  to  Thorir  Hound,  a  man  of  great  promise  and 
popularity,  ii.  Z$x*>-\i — entertains  King  Olaf  at  a  great  feast, 
34 r  12-22 — tne  King  inquires  of  Day,  son  of  Red,  concerning 
Thorir,  who  declares  him  to  be  a  traitor  to  the  King,  which 
is  proved  by  a  massive  ring  of  gold  on  his  arm,  given  him,  as 
he  confesses,  by  Knut,  and  a  prompt  execution  follows,  3423- 

34324 
THORIR,  son  of  Roald,  a  'hersir'  in  the  Firthfolk,  fosters 

Eric  Blood-axe  from  three  years  old,  i.  ii914  i28ls„0 
THORIR  SEAL  (p.  selr),  or  Seal-Thorir  (Sel-p6rir),  a"  steward 
of  King  Olaf  Haraldson  over  his  manor  of  Ogvaldsness,  de- 
scription of  his  personal  characteristics,  ii.  2i324.2(3  2i615.22 — 
his  masterful  dealings  with  Asbiorn  Seal's-bane,  2 1 69.13  03-2  2on 
— slain  by  Asbiorn  before  the  face  of  the  king,  22i-2234 
THORIR,  father  to  Sigurd,  Thorir  Hound  and  Sigrid  of  Eggja, 

ii-  2I4ig-17  3745S 

THORIR  THE  SILENT  (p.  jjegjandi),  son  of  Rognvald  Mere- 
Earl  and  his  lawful  wife,  Hild,  daughter  of  Rolf  Nefia,  i.  1 1 720 
— married  Alof  Year's-heal,  d.  of  Har.  Hairfair,  125^  137^..,,; 
appointed  Earl  of  Mere  after  the  death  of  his  father,  i255.9 

THORIR  of  Steig  (son  of  Thord  Guthormson),  father  of  Guth- 
orm,  the  father  of  Gudrid,  iii.  873.4 — gives  the  King's  name  to 
Harald  the  Hardredy  at  a  Thing  summoned  by  King  Magnus, 
iii.  8425.26 — receives  many  presents  from  Harald,  8627.33 — 
brings  up  Hakon  Magnusson,  K.  Harald's  grandson,  i879.:o 
— after  the  death  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  the  Uplanders  proclaim 
Hakon  king,  and  Thorir  goes  with  him  to  Thrandheim,  where 
he  is  proclaimed  king  at  Ere-Thing,  2058.l7  2o66 — K.  Magnus 
Barefoot,  disliking  the  liberal  laws  of  his  cousin,  throws  the 
blame  on  Thorir,  2o631-2o75 — Thorir,  after  the  death  of 
Hakon,  raises  the  standard  of  revolt  against  K.  Magnus,  is 
defeated  and  hanged,  209-2  i2l7 

THORIR  WOODBEARD  (p.  treskegg),  a  viking  defeated  and 
slain  by  Turf-Einar  Earl  of  Orkney,  i.  i23(H1 

THORKEL  (porkell),  a  goodman  of  Apewater,  in  Iceland,  gave 
fostering  to  Sigvat,  the  poet,  till  he  was  well-nigh  a  full  grown 
man,  ii.  $i14rl1 

THORKEL  DYDRIL  (p.  dySrill),  son  of  Eric  Biodaskalli,  i. 
3oi10 — commands  the  Crane  in  Olaf  Tryggvison's  expedition 


216  Index  I  [tho 

to  Wendland  and  the  battle  of  Svoldr,  3542.3  36330.33  36415.ir 
3655  3665.r  36820.25 

THORKEL  FOSTER-FATHER  (p.  fdstri),  son  of  Amundiof 
Sandwick,  of  all  men  the  doughtiest  in  Orkney,  ii.  i7i27-3i — 
advocates  the  cause  of  the  oppressed  subjects  of  Einar  Wrong- 
mouth,  Earl  of  Orkney,  i7215-i736 — flies  from  Orkney  to  Earl 
Thorfin  of  Caithness  to  escape  Einar's  persecution,  i737.10 
— gets  so  fond  of  Earl  Thorfin  that  therefrom  he  was  by- 
named  Foster-father,  i7310.14 — sent  by  Thorfin  to  collect 
revenue  of  the  third  part  he  claimed  of  Orkney,  Thorkel  has 
to  fly  for  safety  from  Earl  Einar's  wrath,  i758.15 — goes  to 
Norway  and  lays  the  state  of  things  in  Orkney  before  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson,  i7516-i 762  i8q12.13 — goes  back  to  Orkney,  and 
by  Earl  Brusi's  intervention  makes  peace  with  Earl  Einar, 
1 7615-18  25-29~  gives  a  feast  to  Earl  Einar  at  which  he  murders 
him,  i7630-i7812 — goes  forthwith  to  Norway,  and  King  Olaf 
was  'well  pleased'  with  what  he  had  done,  i7813.20  i9222.24 — 
sends  word  privily  to  Earl  Thorfin,  who  had  come  to  Norway  to 
settle  his  dispute  with  his  brother  Brusi,  not  to  attempt  leaving 
Norway  without  coming  to  terms  with  Olaf,  i8230-i833 — 
King  Olaf,  having  received  homage  from  Thorfin  and  Brusi, 
demands  of  them  to  desist  from  avenging  on  Thorkel  the 
slaying  of  their  brother,  Earl  Einar,  i8420.28 — Thorkel  places 
his  head  in  Earl  Thorfin's  lap  and  receives  his  pardon,  1853- 
i868 

THORKEL  FOSTERLING  (p.  fdstri),  son  of  Summerlid,  slain 
in  the  presence  of  Harald  Hakonson,  Earl  of  Orkney,  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  being  accused  of  the  deed,  iii.  337ir.is  34on.19 

THORKEL,  son  of  Eyolf  (the  Gray,  son  of  Olaf  Feilan,  son 
of  Thorstein  the  Red,  son  of  Olaf  White,  King  of  Dublin, 
see  Laxdsela  Saga),  for  a  while  one  of  King  Olaf  Haraldson's 
household,  ii.  24i24.25 — invited,  together  with  other  chiefs  of 
Iceland,  by  Thorarin  Nefiolfson,  to  go  to  Norway  to  meet 
King  Olaf,  an  invitation  on  which  Th.  did  not  act,  245-2463 

24923 

THORKEL,  son  of  Geiri  of  Lings,  an  Icelander,  at  the  battle 
on  Lyrshaw-heath,  apparently  selected  by  K.  Magnus  to  do 
a  surgeon's  duty,  his  progeny  talented  leeches,  iii.  3722.25 

THORKEL  GUSHER  (]).  geysa),  a  Danish  chief,  whose  house 
K.  Harald  Hardredy  burns  down  and  whose  daughters  he 


THO] 


Index  I  217 


takes  captive  on  board,  setting  them  free  for  enormous  ran- 
som, iii.  95i3-96n 

THORKEL  HAMMERSKALD  (]).  hamarskald),  an  Icelandic 
poet,  author  of  a  drapa  on  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  209.^- 
210., 

THORKEL  THE  HIGH  (p.  hinn  hafi),  son  of  Strut-Harald, 
i.  2  7o.23..2ci — his  vow  at  his  father's  and  Harald  Gormson's  grave- 
ale,  2  72.25.27 — his  war-raid  in  Denmark  in  company  with  King 
Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  n7.13 — his  son  Harald  receives  an  earldom 
from  Knut,  375i6-M 

THORKEL  LEIRA  (]).  leira),  a  lord  of  the  Wick,  i.  273^— 
one  of  the  captains  in  Eric's  division  of  the  fleet  in  the 
battle  of  Hiorung-wick,  27716.17  28i10 — slain  by  Vagn  Akison 
while  engaged  in  executing  the  prisoners  after  the  battle, 

28l7-28217 

THORKEL  NEFIA,  or  Nosy  (J),  nefja),  son  of  Lodin  and 
Astrid,  the  mother  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  3oi5.7 — was  captain 
of  the  Short- Worm  in  Olaf  Tryggvison's  expedition  to  Wend- 
land  and  the  battle  of  Svoldr,  354^  36330.33  364^  36sn.13 
3665.6  3681S.25 — jumps  last  of  all  overboard  from  the  Long- 
Worm,  375^  14 

THORKEL  NOSY,  see  THORKEL  NEFIA. 

THORKEL  SKALLISON  (]).  Skallason),  an  Icelandic  poet, 
author  of  '  Walthiof's-flock,'  iii.  i8i25.33  i8212.20 

THORKETIL,  i.  37514 — the  unsyncopated  form  of  the  name 
Thorkel :  see  Thorkel  Nefja. 

THORLEIF  (Jporleifr),  son  of  (Asgeir)  Redfell,  Icel.  poet, 
author  of  a  laudatory  poem  on  Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty,  i. 

2  9  "20-28 

THORLEIF,  son  of  Bryniolf,  a  follower  of  Eystein  son  of 
Harald  Gilli,  iii.  368,3 

THORLEIF  THE  SAGE  (j).  hinn  spaki),  son  of  Hordakari, 
i-  3°3-2G — cures  King  Halfdan  the  Black  of  dreamlessness, 
84jj.jp — aredes  a  dream  of  his,  8420.25 — cures  Harald  Hairfair 
of  his  infatuated  mourning  for  Snowfair,  i2o10.33— assists  K. 
Hakon  the  Good  in  framing  the  Laws  of  Gula-Thing,  i6o27.28 

THORLEIF  THE  SAGE,  fosters,  at  his  house  of  Middledale, 
Eric  the  son  of  Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir,  2O920.23 — his  dealings 
with  Skopti-of-the-Tidings,  247<,r24813 — fits  out  his  foster-son, 
Eric,  son  of  Earl  Hakon,  against  Skopti,  24818.21 


218  Index  I  [tho 

THORLEIF  SKEP  (p.  skjappa),  a  follower  of  Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon,  iii.  35615.2V 

THORLEIK  (porleikr),  son  of  Bolli  (cf.  i.  337^.20)  and  Gudrun 
Osvifrsdaughter  (see  Laxdaela,  ed.  1891),  for  a  time  a  member 
of  King  Olaf  Haraldson's  household,  ii.  24i25 

THORLEIK,  son  of  Brand  [the  son  of  Thorgrim  the  priest], 

i-  335i5 
THORLEIK  THE  FAIR  (p.  hinn  fagri),  author  of  a  '  flock  ' 

on  K.  Svein  Wolfson  of  Denmark,  iii.  9720.32  98^9  992-n  23-32 

IOI16-24  30-IO24 

THORLIOT  BRUSHSKULL  (porlj6tr  skaufuskalli),  at  the 
head  of  King  Hakon  Shoulder-Broad's  host  aboard  the  mer- 
chant ships  off  Kings'-Rock,  iii.  4oo22.25 — Gregory  Dayson's 
ships  drifting  down  upon  him  he  springs  overboard,  4oi3.8 

THORMOD  (porm6^>r),  a  priest  sent  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  with 
Gizur  the  White  and  Hialti  Skeggison  to  christen  the  Ice- 
landers, i.  35415-i6 

THORMOD  COALBROWSKALD  (p.  Kolbninarskald),  the 
son  of  Bersi,  an  Icelandic  poet,  in  the  body-guard  of  K. 
Olaf  Haraldson,  ii.  24i22.27 — backs  Finn  Arnison's  advice 
at  K.  Olaf's  council  of  war  in  Veradale  to  visit  the  rebellious 
Thrandheimers  with  fire,  sword,  and  plunder,  4O222.30 — gives 
vent  to  his  envy  of  Sigvat,  the  king's  favourite,  404^-405,5 
4o815.23 — joins  the  king's  other  poets  in  encouraging  the  army 
with  a  song  of  his  own,  405^-4064— early  in  the  morning  of 
the  day  of  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  in  answer  to  the  king's 
request,  '  Tell  us  some  song,'  he  sings  '  out  right  high  '  '  Biark- 
lay  the  Ancient,'  receiving  thanks  from  the  army  and  gifts 
from  the  king,  which  he  acknowledges  with  much  devotion, 
40715-4o814  19.2S — his  fighting  in  the  battle,  wounds,  death, 

44°i5-44222 
THORMOD,  son  of  Eindridi  and  of  Jorun  the  d.  of  Valgerd 

the  sister  of  Gudmund  the  Mighty,  slays  Hall  son  of  Utrygg, 

who,  when  Thormod  was  one  year  old,  had  killed  his  mother's 

first  cousin  Kodran,  the  son  of  Gudmund,  iii.  i53x.3 

THORNY,  daughter  of  Klack-Harald  and  sister  to  Thyri  Den- 
mark's-Weal,  wife  of  King  Sigurd  Hart  and  mother  to  Ragn- 
hild  the  mother  of  Harald  Hairfair,  i.  837.8 

THOROD  (pdroddr)  [son  of  Eyvind],  a  chief  of  Olfus  in 
southern  Iceland,  i.  2  6924.25 


THO] 


Index  I  219 


THOROD,  son  of  Snorri  the  Priest,  goes,  in  obedience  to 
King  Olaf  Haraldson's  message  by  Thorarin  Nefiolfson,  to 
Norway,  and  stays  with  the  king,  ii.  24919.29 — is  refused  return 
to  Iceland  the  next  season  by  King  Olaf,  and  detained  in  a 
manner  that  'savoured  of  unfreedom,'  until  the  result  of 
Gellir  Thorkelson's  mission  to  the  island  should  be  known, 
27415-275o — his  chafing  under  this  treatment,  2783.5  15.19 
294n-i7 — in  order  to  obtain  release  from  his  constraint  at 
court,  he  undertakes  to  go,  with  a  following  of  twelve  men, 
to  Jamtland  to  collect  the  taxes  claimed  by  King  Olaf,  2  9426.30 
— his  adventurous  journey,  miraculous  escapes,  and  safe  re- 
turn to  King  Olaf,  2Q431-30212 — return  to  Iceland,  30213.16 

THOROLF  (Jporolfr),  stationed  in  the  main  hold  on  board  the 
Long-Worm,  i.  35304 

THOROLF  DRYLLR,  captain  of  a  company  of  soldiers 
garrisoned  bv  Erling  Askew  in  Biorgvin,  iii.  457,7 

THOROLF  LOUSE-BEARD  (p.  liisarskegg),  the  "foster-father 
and  faithful  servant  of  Astrid,  the  mother  of  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
i.  2  23n-22413 — caught  by  vikings  and  sold  into  slavery,  and 
killed  off  as  a  useless  mouth,  22Q5.13 

THOROLF  SKIALG  [SQUINTER]  (ft.  skjalgr),  son  of  Og- 
mund,  the  son  of  Horda-Kari,  father  to  Erling  of  Soli,  i. 

3°3-2V  »•  2I2is  2I4is-i9 
THORSTEIN  (ftorsteinn),  goodman  of  Attwood,  harbours  and 

entertains  Astrid  and  her  child,  Olaf  Tryggvison,  and  saves 

them  from  being  caught  by  Gunnhild's  emissaries,  i.  2  2532- 

2  2  7    - 

THORSTEIN  OF  AUDSHOLT,  in  Iceland,  a  daughter  of 

his  married  to  Arnbiorn  Ambi,  iii.  363,5.7 
THORSTEIN  GALLOWS  (p.  galgi),  father  to  Thora,  the  wife 

of  Ami  Arnmodson,  ii.  io815.l7 
THORSTEIN,  son  of  Hall  of  the  Side,  invited,  together  with 

other  chiefs  of  Iceland,  by  Thorarin  Nefiolfson  to  go  to 

Norway  to  meet  King  Olaf  Haraldson,  an  invitation  on  which 

Th.  did  not  act,  ii.  245-2463  249,4 
THORSTEIN  HLIFARSON  {]).  Hlifarsson),  stationed  in  the 

main  hold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  353,4 
THORSTEIN  THE  LEARNED  (p.  fr6=Si),  cited  as  authority 

for  a  tale  of  miraculous  dice-play  between  K.  Olaf  Haraldson 

and  K.  Olaf  of  Sweden,  ii.  i6623-i678 


220  Index  I  [tho — thr 

THORSTEIN  MIDLANG  (]).  miSlangr),  one  of  Earl  Eric's 
men  in  the  battle  of  Hiorung-wick,  smitten  asunder  in  the 
midst  by  Bui,  i.  2  8o19.23 

THORSTEIN  OXFOOT  (b.  uxaf6tr)  [son  of  'Ivar  Lj6mi],  an 
I  eel.  champion  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35230-353! 

THORSTEIN  THE  RED  (p.  rautfr),  son  of  Olaf  the  White 
(King  of  Dublin)  and  Aud  the  Deeply-wealthy,  joins  Sigurd, 
Earl  of  Orkney  in  a  war-raid  on  Scotland,  i.  n6ls.22 — his 
daughter  Groa  m.  Dungad  Earl  of  Caithness,  ii.  169.3.3 

THORSTEIN  SHIPWRIGHT  (p.  knarrarsmi^r),  enemy  of 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  joins  Thorir  Hound's  ranks  in  the  battle 
of  Sticklestead,  ii.  42323-424^ — wounds  K.  Olaf  severely  with 
an  axe,  and  is  himself  laid  low  by  Finn  Arnison,  4333.6 

THORSTEIN,  son  of  Sigurd  of  Eastort,  iii.  336,5 

THORSTEIN  THE  WHITE  (b.  hviti),  of  Oprustead,  stationed 
in  the  forehold  of  the  Long- Worm,  i.  35315 

THORVITH  (porviftr),  lawman  of  the  Gauts,  delivers  a  brave 
harangue  to  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson's  Swedish  auxiliaries  before 
the  engagement  with  K.  Harald  Hardredy  near  the  Vener- 
water,  and  speedily  runs  away,  iii.  150.,,,  33  15I4.9 

THORWITH  THE  STAMMERER  (p.  stami),  a  counsellor 
of  King  Olaf  the  Swede;  description,  ii.  i6o33-i6i6 — his  in- 
terpretation of  lawman  Edmund's  tale  of  Atti  the  fool's  hunt, 
ii.  i6i1(>13 — remains  at  the  king's  side  while  his  brothers  allay 
a  revolt  against  him,  i639.13 

THR  ANDERS,  Thrands,  Thrand-folk,  Thrandheimers,Thrand- 
heim-folk,  Thrandheim  men,  Thrand-men,  they,  the  men,  of 
Thrandheim,  (J>raendir,  fraendr,  Jjraenda  her,  Jjrsenzk  drott),  i. 

I329   I37l6  *42l  19   I5°ll  16    l6°30   l6l20    23-24    l6213    l633   l6428 
^IlS  24-25  I7210-ll  J99ll   2°337  2I323  23212  28818  29811  3°°1— 

ii.  20j  432  654  6jl  igsu  27610  l7  40527  42i6  423i4-i5  42822  4544 
46i3046247l0— iii.4o3144205i159223935  ii23  i34x  i9i16205l7 

2o824  2I322  223is  2874  347u  36810  4°2io  44725  4562o  46219 

467n  16  24-25  4692  v 

THRAND  O'CHIN  (brandr  baka),  one  of  eight  lords  of 
Thrandheim  combined  to  force  Hakon  the  Good  to  join  in 
heathen  festivals,  i.  i7o19 

THRAND  O'GATE  (p.  i  Gotu)  [son  of  Thorbiorn  Beard-o'- 
Gate]  summoned  by  King  Olaf  Haraldson  to  Norway,  to- 
gether with  many  other  representatives  of  the  people  of  Faroe, 


thr — thy]  Index  I  221 

but  falls  (conveniently)  ill,  and  goes  nowhere,  ii.  24617..24 — 
his  egging-on  of  his  foster-sons  to  undo  Thoralf  of  Dimon's 
mission  to  Norway  (conveyed  to  them  in  Thrand's  own 
mysterious  way),  26g.2l-2'jo-l2 — his  treacherous  dealings  with 
Karl  o'  Mere,  30427-3oq19 — escapes  due  penalty  at  the  hands 
of  King  Olaf  by  reason  of  the  revolt  against  him  in  Norway, 

3°9->o-3o 
THRAND    RENT-MASTER  (p.  gjaldkeri),  commanding  a 

ship  in  K.  Ingi  Haraldson's  fleet  at  the  battle  of  Holm-the- 

Gray,  receives  the  captured  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  and  hands 

him  over  to  his  tormentors,  iii.  3643.3,, 

THRAND  SQUINT-EYE  (p.  skjalgi),  of  Halogaland,  a  fore- 
castle man  on  board  the  Long- Worm,  i.  3536.7 

THRAND  THE  STOUT  (p.  rammi),  of  Thelmark,  a  forecastle 
man  on  board  the  Long- Worm,  i.  353^ 

THRAND  THE  WHITE  (p.  hviti),  King  Olaf  Haraldson's 
taxgatherer  in  Jamtland,  slain,  together  with  his  company  of 
twelve,  by  the  men  of  King  Olaf  the  Swede,  ii.  8o10.l7  29421.2.t 

THRIDI  (priSi  =  Third-one),  one  of  Odin's  names,  Odin,  i. 

25631 

THROTT  (prottr),  one  of  Odin's  names,  Odin,  i.  257x  ii.  3i17 

4322i  "I-  254io 
THUND  (pundr),  one  of  Odin's  names,  Odin,  ii.  4°527 
THURID,  daughter  of  Snorri  the  Priest  (jmriSr  Snorradottir 

go'Sa),  a  wise  woman,  who  told  Ari  much  saga  lore,  i.  7^3 
THYRI  (pyri),  daughter  of  King  Harald  Gormson,  promised 
by  her  brother  Svein  Twibeard  in  marriage  to  King  Burislaf 
in  Wendland,  i.  271^3— fulfilment  of  the  promise  deferred 
through  her  refusal  toconsent,  3493.^ — on  Burislaf 's  claiming 
her  through  Earl  Sigvaldi,  she  is  delivered  against  her  will  to 
the  Earl,  who  takes  her  to  Wendland,  where  she  is  married 
to  Burislaf,  but  from  whom  she  runs  away  after  a  few  days, 
first  to  Denmark,  and  then  to  Norway,  where  she  marries 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  349ir/35o31 — the  dominions  which  Gunnhild 
Svein  Twibeard's  first  wife  owned  in  Wendland,  Svein  had 
settled  on  Thyri,  and  these  same  she  urged  Olaf  Tryggvison 
to  claim,  for  which  purpose  he,  yielding  unwillingly,  fitted 
out  a  great  expedition  to  Wendland,  35o:i.,-3547  35^->3 — ^fr 
only  child  with  Olaf  Tryggvison,  called  Harald,  died  within 
a  year  of  his  birth,  355-22-3o 


222  Index  I  [thy — try 

THYRI  DENMARK'S  WEAL  (p.  Danmarkar  bot),  daughter 
of  Klack-Harald,  King  of  Jutland,  and  queen  to  Gorm  the 
Old,  King  of  Denmark,  i.  8310 

TIND  (Tindr),  son  of  Hallkel,  an  Icel.  poet,  i.  278.,n.32  28312.01 

TOSTI  (Earl),  son  of  Earl  Godwin  by  his  wife  Gyda,  and 
brother  to  Harald,  afterwards  K.  of  England,  ii.  32610.12  hi. 
i5520 — commander-in-chief  of  the  land  forces  in  England 
and  ranking  above  all  other  earls,  i57„6-i581 — disputes  his 
brother's  title,  to  the  exclusion  of  himself,  to  the  kingdom, 
1 5^19-29 — Harald  removes  him  from  the  command  of  the 
army,  whereupon  he  goes  abroad  to  solicit  alliances  against 
Harald,  and  failing  in  Denmark,  secures  one  at  length  in 
Harald  Hardredy,  K.  of  Norway,  i59-i629 — goes  from  Nor- 
way to  meet  his  English  followers  in  Flanders,  163^ — joins 
his  forces  with  Harald  Hardredy  when  he  lands  in  England, 
and  fights  in  all  his  battles,  including  that  of  Stamfordbridge, 
refusing  to  make  peace  with  his  brother,  i6g2.27  i7on-i7810 

TO VI  VALGAUTSON,  his  humane  act  to  prisoners  of  war 
viewed  by  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  as  a  capital  offence,  but  is  con- 
doned through  the  intervention  of  his  father,  ii.  32  8s.31 

TRYGGVI,  calling  himself  son  of  Olaf  Tryggvison  and  of  Gyda 
Olaf's  English  wife,  invades  Norway  while  Svein  Alfiva's  son 
was  king  and  is  defeated  and  slain  in  a  great  battle  at  Bokn 
in  Sokensound,  ii.  4633-46505 

TRYGGVI,  son  of  Olaf  the  son  of  K.  Harald  Hairfair,  i.  i425.9 
— flies,  together  with  his  foster-brother  Gudrod  (son  of  K. 
Biorn  the  Chapman),  to  the  Uplands  after  the  fall,  in  battle 
against  Eric  Bloodaxe  at  Tunsberg,  of  his  father,  14400-30 — 
joins  Hakon  the  Good  against  Eric  Bloodaxe,  i5i8.n — re- 
ceives from  Hakon  the  title  of  King,  with  the  dominion  of 
Ranrealm  and  Vingulmark,  1 5  iu.l7 — goes  on  warfare  in  Ireland 
and  Scotland,  i58l7.20 — appointed  commander  of  K.  Hakon 
the  Good's  forces  in  the  Wick  against  incursions  from  Den- 
mark, and  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  tribute  from  Danish 
lands  conquered  by  Hakon,  i5820-i593 — his  dealings  with  the 
sons  of  Eric  raiding  the  Wick,  i6o11.16 — ousted  by  the  sons 
of  Eric  at  Sotaness,  1723 — comes  to  terms  with  Eric's  sons  as 
to  his  share  in  the  realm  after  the  death  of  Hakon  the  Good, 
I97i4-i6  19-24  202i5-i8 — aines  himself  against  Gunnhild's  sons 
with  Hakon,  Earl  of  Ladir,  Gudbrand  a-Dale  and  Gudrod 


tun — uni]  Index  I  223 

Biornson,  2io3.n — coming  at  the  invitation  of  Gudrod  Gunn- 
hild's  son  to  a  tryst  with  him  at  Walls,  east  of  Sotanes,  he  is 
treacherously  slain  by  Gudrod,  2iiu.20  22415.16 — lies  in  the 
place  'now  called'  Tryggvi's  Cairn,  2ii20.21 
TUNNI,  treasurer  of  K.  Aun  the  Old,  relegated  to  other  thralls 
by  K.  Egil;  his  theft  of  K.  Aun's  treasure,  fights  with  K.  Egil 

and  falls,  i.  44^-4507 

TURF-EINAR  (Torf-Einarr),  son  of  Rognvald  Mere-Earl  by  a 
concubine,  i.  ii722cf.  "•  i6810.]2— becomes  Earl  of  Orkney, 
defeats  vikings  and  teaches  the  islanders  how  to  use  turf  for 
fuel,  i2226-i23l7 — his  personal  appearance,  I2319.21— his  feud 
with,  defeat  and  torture  of  Halfdan  Highleg  in  Rinan's  isle, 
I2512-i26ucf.ii.  i6812.16— his  songs,  I2529-I26513.2028.35  127,^,, 
— his  flight  from  Orkney  before  K.  Harald  Hairfair's  punitive 
expedition,  i2  73.v  ii.  i6816.lV— pays  for  the  people  of  Orkney 
the  fine  of  sixty  marks  of  gold  imposed  by  K.  Harald  as 
atonement  for  the  slaughter  of  Halfdan,  127^5  cf.  ii.  i6819.24 
— takes,  as  security  for  the  refunding  to  him  of  the  fine,  all 
'odal'  lands  in  Orkney,  i2723.29'  but  cf.  ii.  i6818.19— the  fate 
of  his  sons,  Arnkel  and  Erland,  I5318-i54i3 — and  of  his  third 
son,  Thorfinn  Skull-cleaver,  i54o9-IS5o  cf-  "•  l682.fl693 

TUSK-MELBRIGDA-Gael.  Maelbrighde  (MelbrigSi  tbnn), 
a  Scottish  earl  slain  by  Sigurd,  Earl  of  Orkney,  i.  n622.24 

TYR  (Tyr),  one  of  the  ^Esir,  counted  as  ancestor  of  K.  Egil  of 
Sweden,  i.  4620 — and  of  the  Earls  of  Ladir,  2o625 — used  in 
kennings  to  signify  a  man,  a  warrior,  i85lc  (i9014)  259^  2627 
3787 — Burden-Tyr  (Farma-Tyr),  a  periphrastic  name  for 
Odin,  2o610 

ULFHILD  ('Ulfhildr),  daughter  of  King  Olaf  Haraldson  and 
Queen  Astrid,  with  the  King  and  Queen  at  Eidwood,  ii.  369! 
— left  with  the  Queen  in  Sweden  when  the  King  fares  to 
Holmgarth,  369.^  39  i25.2V— married  to  Duke  Otta  (Ordulf)  of 
Saxland,  iii.  3410-i3 

ULLER  (Ullr),  one  of  the  gods,  a  son  of  Sif  and  stepson  of 
Thor,  used  only  in  kennings,  i.  J99o8  2oo4  24520 

ULLI,  a  pet  name  for  Erland  (Erlendr,  i.e.,  Erli,  Elli,  Ulli), 
i.  29331 

UN  I  BUR,  a  commander  of  Wendish  forces  at  the  siege  of 
Kings'-Rock,  iii.  3263,-327.;. — his  speech  to  his  men  on  attack- 
ing the  castle,  33i1(W0 


224  Index  I  [upl — vak 

UPLANDERS,  Upland-men  (Upplendingar),  i.  i3in  i32n — 
ii.  6330  io72  i32.20  2io18  3685  4io4  46o21— iii.  ii23  1449  i4613 

19  J553  2°5s  44812  47422 
UP-SWEDES  (Uppsviar),  the  Swedes,  as  it  appears,  inhabiting 

the  old  realm  of  Upsala,  or  Tenthland,  ii.  i6ol7  1647  (9  19)  31 

l65o-io 
UP-THRANDHEIMERS,  Up-Thrandfolk,  dwellers  of  Upper- 

Thrandheim,  they  from  Inner-Thrandheim,  men  of  Upper- 

Thrandheim  (Inn-prsendir),  the  inhabitants  of  the  folklands 

round  the  head  of  Thrandheim-Bay,  i.  i7ol7.18  3539 — ii.  656 

7ii  i945-6  14  4Q229  430^  45i14— iii.  9726 

URGUTHRIOT  (Urgu]?rj6tr),  an  Earl  sent  as  Christian  mis- 
sionary to  Norway  by  Harald  Gormson,  i.  3oi25.30 

USPAK  ('Uspakr),  son  of  Usvif  the  Wise,  the  father  of  Wolf 
King  Harald  Hardredy's  marshal,  iii.  6715 

USVIF  THE  WISE  (Usvifr  spaki)  [son  of  Helgi],  grandfather 
of  Wolf  Harald  Hardredy's  trusted  marshal,  iii.  6715 

UTHYRMIR  ('UJjyrmir),  brother  to  Thrand  the  Stout,  a  fore- 
castleman  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  353,3 

VEERINGS,  foreign,  chiefly  northern  mercenaries,  in  the  ser- 
vice of  Byzantine  emperors,  iii.  6o2  B 12  19  27  6i13  62x  27  634  652S 

31  662i  6723  68i  6923-7°2i  30  73i  74i  32  76i5  42818  21  42919  43o26 
33  43 15  15  18  22  2r, — -nicknamed  by  the  Greeks  the  Emperor's 
'  Wineskins  '  (vinbelgir),  iii.  43021.22 
VAFAD  (Vafa'Sr),  the  waverer,  the  shifty  god,  Odin,  i.  r85r 

VAGN,  the  son  of  Aki  (Palnatoki's  son)  and  Thorgunna,  the 
sister  of  Bui  the  Thick,  a  Jomsviking,  i.  2  7o2930 — his  vow  at 
the  grave-ale  after  Harald  Gormson,  Strut  Harald  and  Veseti, 
273i-4 — commands  one  wing  of  the  Jomsburg  fleet  in  the 
battle  of  Hiorung-wick,  27718.19 — his  fight  in  the  battle,  2795.10 
21.25 — taken  prisoner  by  Earl  Eric  and  fettered  with  thirty  of 
his  men,  28i3.16 — escapes  being  executed  by  Thorkel  Leira, 
whom  he  slays;  is  pardoned  by  Earl  Eric,  28210.20 — goes  to 
the  Uplands  with  Earl  Eric,  who  gives  him  in  marriage 
Ingibiorg,  the  daughter  of  Thorkel  Leira,  whereupon  he  goes 
to  his  estates  in  Denmark,  well  found  in  all  things  by  the 
Earl,  28330-2844 

VAKR  OF  THE  ELF  (Vakr  elfski),  son  of  Raumi,  a  forecastle 
man  on  the  Long-Worm,  i.  3533.4 


val] 


Index  I  225 


VALDIMAR  (Valdamarr,  Vladimir),  Prince  of  Holmgarth, 
1 036- 1 05  2,  son  of  King  Jarisleif  and  Ingigerd,  daughter  of 
Olaf  the  Swede-king,  ii.  15407  iii-  43730-31 — possibly  the  same 
(born  1020)  to  whom  Sigvat  refers  as  having  been  healed  by 
Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  458^ 

VALDIMAR,  Vladimir  the  Great,  Prince  of  Novgorod,  970- 
977,  of  Kief,  980-1015 — resides  at  Holmgarth,  i.  22827.29 
2  2  9„4 — contrary  to  the  law  of  the  land,  he  allows  weregild  to 
be  paid  for  Olaf  Tryggvison's  manslaughter  of  Klerkon,  and 
takes  him  up  and  treats  him  as  a  royal  prince  (Nestor  ex- 
pressly states  that  Vladimir  abolished  the  '  vira '  or  weregild), 
23°26"23I24  2 89i-2 — appointed  Olaf  to  the  command  of  his 
land  forces,  and  bestowed  much  favour  upon  him,  2  5o4.l7 — 
withdrew  his  favour  through  slander,  and  Olaf  departed  the 
realm,  25003-25100 — his  land  invaded  and  harried  by  Earl 
Eric  Hakonson,  3476.99 

VALDIMAR  THE  GREAT,  King  of  Denmark,  1157-1182, 
son  of  Knut  Lord  and  Ingibiorg,  d.  of  Harald  Valdimarson 
of  Holmgarth  (Novgorod),  iii.  27003-2715  brother-in-law  of 
K.  Magnus  the  Blind,  3142527  and  Stig  Whiteleather,  27i7.10 
first  cousin  to  Kristin,  the  mother  of  K.  Magnus  Erlingson, 

27°2s-3o  27i4  7-9  37*11-14  43731-4382  47 ios-29— treaty  of  alliance 
between  him  and  K.  Magnus  Erlingson,  437^438^ — the 
treaty  broken  by  Erling  wilfully  failing  to  persuade  the  men 
of  the  Wick  to  become  Danish  subjects,  465-4670 — Erling 
forges  letters  in  the  name  of  K.  Valdimar  in  order  to  try  the 
loyalty  of  the  Thrandheimers  to  his  son,  4675-46925 — K.  Val- 
dimar's  abortive  expedition  to  Norway,  46923-470 — suffers 
defeat  at  the  hands  of  Erling  at  Deersriver  in  Jutland,  4713.23 
— peace  made  with  Erling  on  condition  that  he  hold  the 
Wick  in  Norway  as   an  earldom    of  K.  Valdimar,   47t2e- 

474.5 
VALGARD  OF  THE  MEAD  (ValgarSr  af  Velli),  Icelandic 

poet,  commemorates   the  journey  of  Harald  the  Hardredy 

from  Holmgarth  to  Sweden,  iii.  775.14 — tells  of  the  journey  of 

Harald  and  Svein  from  Sweden  to  Denmark,  7814-79llJ 

VALGAUT  (Valgautr),  the  father  of  Tovi,  intercedes  with  King 
Olaf  on  behalf  of  his  son,  is  christened  by  the  king,  and  dies 
immediately  afterwards,  ii.  32828.31 

VALGERD  (ValgerSr),  daughter  of  Eyolf,  sister  of  Gudmund 

VI.  Q 


226  Index  I  [val — vem 

the  Mighty  of  Maddermead,  and  mother  of  Jorun,  the  mother 
of  Thormod,  hi.  i534.y 

VALI  (Vali),  a  sea-king,  or,  according  to  others,  a  son  of  Odin 
and  Rind,  i.  346^ 

VALKYR  (Valkyrja,  from  val,  stem  of  valr,  a  collective  term 
for  those  fallen  in  battle,  but  meaning  the  '  elects,'  i.e.,  Odin's 
collective  choice,  and  kyrja,  from  stem  kur-  in  kurum  1.  pi. 
pret.  of  kj6sa,  to  choose,  a  she-chooser,  she  who  chooses), 
'elect-choosers,'  Odin's  maidens,  who  out  of  the  fallen  host 
in  battle,  the  '  Elect,'  chose  the  worthy,  i.e.,  the  bravely  fallen, 
for  the  joys  of  Valhall,  i.  i5516  17230  i895.10 — they  ride  on 
horseback  in  helmet,  wield  a  spear,  and  carry  shield  before 
them,  i9i14  20.24 

VANA,  a  woman  out  of  Vanhome,  married  to  Svegdir,  K.  of 
the  Swedes,  i.  2  530.31 

VANDRAD  (VandraSr,  i.e.,  he  who  is  in  trouble  for  counsel, 
embarrassed),  name  assumed  by  K.  Svein  Wolfson,  and  under 
which  he  managed  to  save  his  life  by  the  aid  of  Earl  Hakon 
Ivarson  after  the  battle  of  Niz,  iii.  138-140,3 

VANIR,  the  people  of  Vanland,  their  dealings  with  Odin,  i. 
i318-i419 — authors  of  the  art  of  wizardry,  1400-24 

VANLAND  (Vanlandi),  son  of  Svegdir  and  Vana,  i.  2531 — took 
rule  over  the  Swedes  after  his  father,  warred  far  and  wide, 
abode  in  Finland  with  Snow  the  Old,  and  wedded  his 
daughter  Drift,  whom  he  deserted,  and  who,  in  turn,  caused 
him  to  be  trodden  to  death  by  a  night-mare  at  Upsala,  2626- 

^  7  33 

VARIN  (Varinn),  a  legendary  king,  i.  3i512.18 
VATT  (Vottr),  an  earl  of  Denmark,  i.  4728-4831 
VE  (Ve),  brother  of  Odin;  he  and  his  brother  Vili  marry  Frigg, 
Odin's  wife,  during  the  latter's  absence  from  home  so  pro- 
longed that  all  hope  of  his  return  had  been  given  up,i.  i38.15 — 
left  in  rule  over  Asgarth  when  Odin  and  his  migrated  to  the 
north,  i515 
VEMUND  (Vemundr),  brother  to  Audbiorn,  king  of  Firthfolk, 
succeeded  to  his  brother's  kingdom  after  the  latter's  fall  at 
the  second  battle  of  Solskel,  i.  io36.7 — burnt  in  his  house 
whilst  feasting  at  Naustdale,   by  Earl   Rognvald  of  Mere, 
103i6  23 — h^s  ships  and  chattels  confiscated,  103,5.07 
VEMUND  KNUCKLE-BREAKER  (V.  volubrjotr),  captain 


ven — vis]  Index  I  227 

of  the  band  collected  by  Klypp  the  Hersir  to  slay  King 
Sigurd  Slaver,  i.  2i67.n 

VENDS.    See  Wends. 

VERDALERS,  folk  of,  they  of,  Verdale  (Verd?elir),  dwellers 
in  Verdale,  Upper-Thrandheim,  ii.  i9631  40503  43718 

VESETI,  a  lord  in  Borgundholm,  i.  2  7i.17.o8 

VIDKUNN  OF  BIRCHISLE(Vtf5kunnriBjarkey),sonof  Joan 
Arnison  and  Ranveig,  d.  of  Sigurd,  s.  of  Thorir  Hound,  iii. 
1710-13 — attacked  and  robbed  by  Steig-Thorir,  father  and  son 
flee  to  K.  Magnus  Barefoot  for  protection,  2ii1.20 — joins  K. 
Magnus  Barefoot's  expedition  to  Ireland,  238.^ — one  of  the 
last  to  flee  from  the  fallen  king,  whose  sword  '  Legbiter '  and 
banner  he  saves  on  board  ship,  242^..^ — slays  in  the  battle 
the  man  who  killed  K.  Magnus,  for  which  he  got  into  great 
favour  with  his  sons,  24314.18— Magnus,  s.  of  K.  Sigurd  Jeru- 
salem-farer  fostered  by  him  in  Birchisle,  278^.07 — he  shelters 
for  one  winter  Magnus  (already  deposed,  maimed  and  blinded) 
from  the  sons  of  Harald  Gilli,  356l7.18 

VIDUR  (ViSr),  one  of  Odin's  names,  Odin,  i.  2O730  256.^  278,- 

VIGFUS  (Vigfuss),  son  of  Slaying  Glum,  fights  on  board  Earl 
Hakon's  ship  in  the  battle  of  Hiorung-wick,  i.  28o5.12 

VIGLEIK  (Vigleikr),  son  of  Ami,  slays  Aslak  Skull  o'  Fitiar, 
ii.  3627.13  3635.10 

VIKAR  (Vikarr),  of  Tenthland,  a  champion  on  board  the 
Long-Worm,  i.  353x 

VIKING-KARI  (Vikingakari),  father  of  Sigurd,  the  father  ot 
Eric  Biodaskalli,  i.  33429-3i  (but  see  Sigurd,  son  of  Viking- 
kari) — a  landed  man  of  Vors,  in  Norway,  ii.  89^ 

VILBORG,  daughter  of  Gizur  the  White,  second  cousin  of  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  married  to  Hialti,  the  son  of  Skeggi,  i.  335x-3 
ii.  89,  „ 

VILI,  brother  to  Odin,  1.  i39.15  15^ — see  Ve. 

VIRVIL  (Virvill),  a  sea-king,  i.  34614 

VISBUR  (Visburr),  son  of  Vanland  and  Drift  his  Finnish  wife, 
i.  2  73— wedded  an  unnamed  daughter  of  Aude  the  Wealthy, 
and  deserted  her,  having  had  two  sons  with  her,  Gisl  and 
Ondur,  and  took  to  him  another,  also  unnamed,  with  whom 
he  had  a  son,  Domald;  was  burned  in  his  house  by  his  sons 
of  first  marriage,  28.3-29^ 

VISSIVALD  (Vissivaldr),  i.e.,  Vsevolod,  Grand  Prince  of  Kief, 


228  Index  I  [vis — wen 

1078-1093,  son  of  Jarisleif,  King  of  Holmgarth  and  Ingigerd 
daughter  of  Olaf  the  Swede-king,  ii.  1 5427 

VISSAVALD  (Vissavaldr),  Vsevolod,  a  'king '  from  Garthrealm, 
comes  to  Sweden  to  woo  Sigrid  the  Haughty,  who  burns  him 
alive  together  with  Harald  the  Grenlander,  995,  i.  2869.25  (? 
son  of  Vladimir  the  Great,  who  died  995). 

VITGEIR  (Vitgeirr),  a  wizard  of  Hordland,  i.  1339-20 

VOLSUNGS  (Volsungar),  the  family  of  Volsung,  the  grand- 
father of  Sigurd  the  Slayer  of  Fafnir,  represented  in  carven 
images  at  the  Hippodrome  in  Constantinople,  iii.  26o16.20 

VORS-FOLK  (Vorsar),  inhabitants  of  the  district  of  North- 
Hordland  called  Vors,  iii.  2o8.,0 

WALDEMAR,  see  Valdimar. 

WALTHEOW,  also  WALTHIOF  (Vatyjofr),  1066,  Earl,  son  of 
Earl  Godwin  by  his  wife  Gyda,  ii.  32610.12  iii.  i5521 — with  Mor- 
car  on  the  Ouse  in  opposition  to  King  Harald  Sigurdson,  i676.9 
— flees  into  York,  i6830 — with  his  brother  K.  Harald  Godwin- 
son  at  the  battle  of  Helsingport,  i8iu.12— gets  away  by  flight, 
but  coming  upon  a  company  of  a  hundred  Normans,  he  burns 
them  to  death  in  an  oak  forest,  i8i18.33 — William,  now  King 
of  England,  sends  word  to  him  to  come  to  terms  of  peace, 
and  gives  him  a  safe  conduct  to  the  meeting,  i824.6 — he  goes 
to  the  meeting  with  a  small  following,  is  met  on  his  way  by  two 
king's  bailiffs  and  a  company  of  men,  who  put  him  in  fetters 
and  slay  him,  i827.n — held  for  holy  by  Englishmen,  i82n  12 
(Waltheow  was  not,  as  Snorri  has  it,  a  son  of  Godwin  and 
brother  to  Harald,  but  the  son,  in  first  marriage,  of  Earl 
Siward  of  Deira,  who  died  1055.  By  order  of  the  Conqueror, 
Waltheow  was  executed  31  May,  1076,  at  Winchester.  Steen- 
strup,  Normannerne,  iii.  437-440,  makes  it  clear  that  Siward, 
father  of  Waltheow,  and  Wolf,  father  to  K.  Svein  of  Den- 
mark, were  first  cousins.) 

WATERWORM  (Vatnormr),  son  of  Day  Eilifson  by  Ragnhild, 
d.  of  Skopti  Ogmundson,  commands  in  Tunsberg  under  K. 
Ingi,  and  repels  a  Danish  attack  on  the  town,  iii.  3523.s — his 
misadventure  at  Portyria,  35424-3552 

WENDS,  Wend-folk,  Wendland-folk  (Vindr),  inhabitants  of 
Wendland,  i.  i5729  1583  2553  256^  27i68  347^— ii.  i718— iii. 

3°16  322  19  34715  2127  35214  17  365  25  373  9  5°2«  595   Il623  3z619 
32722  26  3283-33333  3547  38O28 


wes — wil]  Index  I  2.2.9 

WEST-GAUTLANDERS  (Vestrgautar),ii.  1 1 7n  H9ir20 14211-12 

155.,.,  16^.-,  iii.  229T 

WEST -GAUTS,  see  West-Gautlanders. 

WHELP  (Hvelpr),  son  of  Earl  Sigurd  son  of  Hlodver  of  Ork- 
ney, given  for  hostage  to  Olaf  Tryggvi son,  i.  291^  ii.  169..,.,; 
tarried  with  K.  Olaf  for  some  winters  and  died  in  Norway, 

WHITE-CHRIST,  see  Christ. 

WICK-DWELLERS,  -folk,  -men,  -wights,  folk,  men  of  the 
Wick  (Vikverjar),  inhabitants  of  the  Wick  in  Norway  i.  i3210 
i3520  H29  i5i29  19911-12  u-  8o23  27  84io  ui-  359is  374s  395sa 
4°2.20  4i7is  31  449io  13  46618 

WILLIAM  (Viljalmr),  the  V.  Earl  of  Poitiers  and  III.  Duke  of 
Aquitaine,  994-1030,  ii.  i9u.14 

WILLIAM,  'son  of  Richard,'  earl  of  Normandy  during  the 
thirteen  winters  that  had  worn  from  the  fall  of  Olaf  Tryggvi- 
son, i.e.  a.d.  1000-1013,  has  no  existence,  ii.  2i18.24 

WILLIAM  THE  BASTARD  (V.  bastarSr),  son  of  Robert 
'  Long-sword '  ( !)  Duke  of  Normandy,  afterwards  K.  of  England, 
1066-87,  i.  n8.29 — receives  as  chance  visitor,  Harald  Godwin- 
son,  to  whom  he  promises  his  daughter  in  marriage,  iii.  156- 
1 5 7n— incensed  at  Harald's  breaking  off  the  betrothal,  and 
claiming  that  his  title  to  the  crown  of  England  was  superior  to 
Harald's,  he  invades  and  conquers  England,  i8o-i8223 — his 
dealings  with  Earl  Walthiof,  i8i18  i82.20 

WILLIAM,  Bishop  of  the  Orkneys,  accompanies  Erling  Askew 
on  his  Jerusalem  journey,  iii.  37i18.21 

WILLIAM,  son  of  Gudrun  of  Saltness,  iii.  483^ 

WILLIAM  LONGSPEAR,  see  the  following. 

WILLIAM  LONGSWORD  (V.  Iangaspj6t,  mistranslation  of 
'  longa  spatha '),  son  of  Rolf  Wend-a-foot,  Duke  of  Normandy, 
927-942,  i.  n8.,4  ii.  2i31 

WILLIAM,  King"  of  Sicily,  son  of  K.  Roger  the  Rich,  had  war 
with  Micklegarth's  Kaiser,  iii.  256^—  had  three  daughters  and 
no  son,  the  daughters  married  to  Kaiser  Henry,  to  a  Duke  of 
Cyprus,  and  to  Margrit,  lord  of  Corsairs,  2563.5 

(The  William  here  referred  to  is  made  up  of  three  persons. 
His  daughter,  who  married  Kaiser  Henry,  i.e.  the  sixth  of 
Germany,  was  Constance,  daughter  of  K.  Roger  I.  The  two 
daughters  who  married  the  Duke  of  Cyprus  and  the  Admiral 


230  Index  I  [wil — wol 

Margarito  were  daughters  of  William  I.,   11 54-1 166.   The 

William  who  waged  war  with  Greece  was  his  son,  William  II., 

1166-1189.) 
WILLIAM  THE  SKINNER  (V.  skinnari),  slain  by  Sigurd 

Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  35725 
WINTERLID  THE  SKALD  (VetrliSi  skald),  slain  by  Thang- 

brand  the  missionary  for  an  insulting  lampoon,  i.  32301,..74 
WOLF  FLY  ('Ulfr  fly),  son  of  Peter  Burden-Swain,  iii.  io~412 
WOLF  HRANISON,  accompanies  King  Magnus  Barefoot  on 

hiswarfarein  Ireland,  iii.  238^-23^ — falls  with  theking,  24293.94 
WOLF  THE  RED  ('U.  hinn  rauSi),  the  bearer  of  K.  Olaf 

Tryggvison's  banner  on  board  the  Long- Worm,  i.  35227.20— - 

altercation   between   him  and  Olaf  Tryggvison   before  the 

battle  of  Svoldr,  36612.22 
WOLF,  son  of  Rognvafd  Earl  of  West-Gautland  and  Ingibiorg 

the  daughter  of  Tryggvi,  ii.  2  331  i5432 
WOLF,  son  of  Skogul-Tosti  and  brother  to  Sigrid  the  Haughty, 

father  to  Rognvald  Earl  of  West-Gautland,  i.  35620.24  ii.  239.12 

1545 
WOLF,   an   earl   in   Denmark,   son   of  Thorgils   Sprakalegg, 

married  to  Astrid,  sister  of  King  Knut  the  Mighty,  who  set 
him,  together  with  his  son,  Hordaknut,  to  rule  over  Denmark 
in  his  absence  in  England,  ii.  26721.27  3i616.21  iii.  3o24.26  3i5 — 
by  virtue  of  letters  forged  by  Queen  Emma  under  royal  seal, 
of  the  spuriousness  of  which  Earl  Wolf  was  aware,  he  causes 
Hordaknut  to  be  elected  King  of  Denmark  at  a  public  Thing, 
ii.  3i621-3i720 — levies  forces  by  land  and  sea  to  meet  invasion 
by  Sweden  and  Norway  combined,  3i721.33 — fearing  Knut's 
anger  he  sends  messengers  to  Queen  Emma  to  ascertain  the 
king's  mind,  318^ — deserted  by  the  influential  people  of 
Denmark,  318^-319^ — he  leaves  his  case  in  the  king's  hands, 
sending  his  son,  Svein,  to  intercede  for  him,  and  to  offer 
himself  an  hostage  to  the  king  on  his  father's  behalf,  King 
Knut  answering  that  Wolf  should  go  on  levying  forces,  after- 
wards they  could  talk  about  peace,  3i97.16 — commands  in  the 
battle  of  the  Holy  River,  where  he  fights  valiantly,  32  2l7.a9 — 
his  endeavour  to  appease  the  king,  32529-3269 — his  fatal  chess- 
play  with  King  Knut,  3265.9  l7.31 — the  murder  of  him  in  the 
church  of  Roiswell,  327^^  iii.  2914.15 — the  atonement  for  the 
murder  and  sacrilege,  32  7]6.23 


wol — wor]  Index  I  231 

WOLF,  son  of  Uspak,  the  son  of  Usvif  the  Wise,  K.  Harald 
Hardredy's  marshal,  married  Jorun  d.  of  Thorberg  Arnison 
(and  sister  to  K.  Harald  Hardredy's  Queen  Thora),  their 
children  and  descendants,  hi.  io43.15 — with  K.  Harald  while 
in  Greek  service,  6714.17  73oo.31— his  character  and  favour  with 
Harald,  6715.17  io43.6  15.19 — commands  a  ship  in  the  battle  off 
Niz,  i3317.2S — in  favour  of  Harald's  expedition  to  England, 
i6219.2S — his  death  and  Harald's  parting  words  at  his  grave, 

I"220-33 

WOLFHEDIN,  son  of  Saxolf,  an  Icelander,  falls  at  Kings'- 

Rock,  iii.  3541S 
WOLFKEL  SNILLING  ('Ulfkell  snillingr),  earl  in  East  Anglia, 

ob.  1016,  defeated  in  battle  by  Ethelred  and  Olaf  Haraldson, 

ii.  i64.25 — slain  by  Earl  Eric  of  Norway  in  battle  to  the  west 

of  London,  2  6.,4.34 
WOLFNOTH,  misprinted  Wolfroth  ('UlfnaSr),  father  to  Earl 

Godwin,  ii.  32610.n 
WORM  (Ormr),  stationed  in  the  forehold  of  the  Long-Worm, 

i-  353u 
WORM  (mispr.  Orm,  iii.  35 14),  Earl  of  the  Uplands,  son  of 

Eilif  and   Ragnhild,  d.  of  Hakon  the  Mighty,  married  to 

Sigrid,  d.  of  Earl  Finn  Arnison,  their  children :  Ogmund  and 

Ragna;  created  Earl  by  Harald  Sigurdson,  iii.  io6.,0.23 11321-23 

n63.s  1195.(5 12-13  35I3-o  37Irn 

WORM  LYG'RA  (O.  lygra),  of  Middlehouse,  on  the  river  Gaul 
in  lower  Gauldal,  threatened  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  with  being 
sacrificed  to  the  heathen  gods,  i.  3i94.6 

WORM  LYRGIA  (O.  lyrgja),  a  wealthy  goodman  of  Buness, 
married  to  Gudrun,  daughter  of  Bergthor  of  Lund,  raises  the 
standard  of  revolt  against  Earl  Hakon  on  account  of  his  in- 
sult to  the  honour  of  his  wife,  i.  2925-293^ 

WORM,  of  Lioxa,  one  of  eight  lords  of  Thrandheim  bound 
together  to  force  Hakon  the  Good  to  join  in  the  customs 
of  heathen  festivals,  i.  i7o17 — threatened  by  Olaf  Tryggvison 
with  being  sacrificed  to  the  gods,  3i948 

WORM  (mispr.  Orm,  iii.  4752  476,,.)  KING'S-BROTHER  (O. 
konungsbr63ir),  son  of  Ivar  Skewer  and  Queen  Ingirid,  d.  of 
Rognvald  and  mother  of  K.  Ingi  Harald  Gilli's  son  (whence 
the  by-name),  iii.  37o182:, — his  valiant  fight  at  the  battle  of 
Oslo,   1 161,  in  which  his    half-brother,   K.  Ingi  Haraldson 


232  Index  I  [wor — yrs 

fell,  42610.15  23.24 — betrothed  the  winter  before  to  Ragna,  d.  of 
Nicolas  Mew,  the  widow  of  K.  Eystein  Haraldson,  42  623.28 — 
flees  from  Oslo  to  his  brother  K.  Magnus  of  Sweden,  42  623.24 
29-31 — ^h  Erling  Askew  in  Biorgvin,  44315.1(; — with  Erling 
again  in  search  of  the  band  of  Olaf  Unlucky,  474^-47  52 — 
severely  wounded  in  the  fight  at  Rydiokul  with  Olaf  Unlucky, 
47()26-27 — fights  with  K.  Magnus  Erlingson  in  the  battle  of  Re 
against  Eystein  Eysteinson,  484-4863 

WORM  SHAWNEB  (O.  skogarnef),  stationed  in  the  main- 
hold  on  board  the  Long-Worm,  i.  35324.25 

YGG  (Yggr,  the  Terrifier),  Odin,  ii.  i5n  31  6o24  iii.  74  i8i2G 

YLFING  (Ylfingr),  see  Hiorvard  the  sea-king. 

YLFINGS  (Ylfingar),  the  followers  of  Hiorvard,  who  was  called 
Ylfing,  i.  6o6  cf.  59l5 

YNGLINGS  (Ynglingar),  the  earliest  race  of  thekings  of  Sweden, 
descendants  of  Frey,  who  was  also  called  Yngvi,  i.  46  14.18 
23s-i2  3X23  4°3  (cf-  u-  I6o14.1926.29) — Huld,  the  Finnish  witch, 
lays  the  spell  on  the  race,  that  parricide  should  be  for  ever 
a  besetting  curse  of  their  blood,  2819.23— after  Ingiald  Evil- 
heart,  the  dominion  of  Upsala  fell  from  the  direct  line  of 
descent  in  the  Yngling  race,  6429.32 

YNGVAR  (Yngvarr),  King  of  Fiadrundaland,  i.  554.7  15  27 — 
burned  in  a  banqueting  hall  at  Upsala  by  Ingiald  Evil-heart, 

5°3-10  29"597 

YNGVAR,  son  of  K.  Eystein,  King  of  the  Swedes,  had  war 
with  Denmark  and  Esthonia,  and  fell  in  battle  with  the 
Esthonians,  i.  537-544 

YNGUNI  =  Yngvi,  i.  3i21 

YNGVI,  another  name  by  which  Frey  was  called,  i.  238.9 — 
Yngvi's  people,  the  Swedes,  3i10;  Yngvi's  kindred  =  Ynglings 
=  the  Norwegian  branch  from  Olaf  Treeshaver,  1893 — 
synonymous  for  king,  239.n  3o18  3i21.23  iii.  7814 

YNGVI,  son  of  K.  Alrek,  King  of  the  Swedes,  together  with 
his  brother  Alf,  i.  36r3723 

YNGVI-FREY  (Yngvi-Freyr),  see  Frey. 

YRSA,  d.  of  Helgi,  King  of  Denmark,  by  Alof  the  Mighty, 
apparently  before  her  marriage  with  K.  Gerthiof  of  Saxland ; 
left  in  her  mother's  charge,  she  grows  up  with  shepherds  (in 
Saxland),  and  in  a  war  raid  on  that  dominion  by  K.  Adils  of 
Sweden,  is  carried  off  captive,  and  in  the  end  is  married 


ZOE — DIG] 


Index  I 


233 


to  K.  Adils.  K.  Helgi  makes  war  on  Adils,  carries  off  his 
queen,  not  knowing  she  was  his  daughter,  and  marries  her; 
their  son:  Rolf  Kraki.  Yrsa's  mother,  coming  to  Denmark, 
discloses  her  paternity,  whereupon  she  joins  her  former  hus- 
band, i.  49-5°n 
ZOE  THE  RICH,  Eastern  Empress,  1028-1052,  'rules  over 
Greekland'  with  Michael  Katalaktus,  iii.  59„5- — engages  for 
war-service  Harald  the  Hardredy,  5926.27 — enraged  at  the  idea 
of  Harald  leaving  the  service  of  the  King  of  the  Greeks,  she 
brings  false  accusations  against  him,  as  she  had  wished  to  have 
him  for  her  husband,  7221-744 — Harald  sends  her  a  derisive 
message  by  Maria,  the  maid  whom  he  had  wooed  and  taken 
by  force  from  the  palace,  7209-73!  75x7-21 


The  Vernacular  By-names  in  Alphabetical  Order. 


AfraSskollr  (Thorgeir) 
Agnhottr  (Sigurd) 
Ambi  (Arnbiorn) 
'Arb6t  (Alof) 
'Armaftr  (Asgaut) 

(Biorn) 

(Thorgeir) 

'Arsaeli  (Eric) 
AskmaSr  (Alf) 
'A  Sk6gi  (Marcus) 
AuSgi  (AuSi) 

(Kiotvi) 

Bakrauf  (Gilli) 
Balli  (Ottar)  ' 
BastarSr  (William) 
Berfaettr  (Magnus) 
Bestill  (Bergthor) 
Bildr  (Sigurd) 
Birtingr  (Ottar) 
Bj6:Saskalli  (Eric) 


Blindi  (Arnvid) 

(Magnus) 

(Stuf) 

(Svipdag) 

B1636x  (Eric) 
BrigSarskalli  (Ami) 
Brosa  (Birgir) 
Bryggjuf6tr  (Svein) 
Bryndcelaskald  (Illugi) 
Bukkr  (Biorn) 
Byr^arsveinn  (Peter) 
DaSaskald  (Eyolf) 
Danmarkarbdt  (Thyri) 
Daufi  (Andres) 

(Freywith) 

Dengir  (Ogmund) 
Digri  (Biorn) 
(Bui) 

(Hugh) 

(Olaf) 


234 


Index  I 


[dig — HAR 


Digri  (Sigurd) 

Gamli  (Solvi) 

Djupau^ga  (Aud) 

Gandr  (Harek) 

Drengr  (Olaf) 

Gauzki  (Eilif) 

Dryllr  (Thorolf) 

(Hrani) 

Dynta  (Ivar) 

Geirsta^aalfr  (Olaf  s.  o.  Gud 

DySrill  (Thorkel) 

rod) 

Doelski  (Atti) 

(Olaf  s.  o.  Harald) 

Eimuni  (Eric) 

Gellini  (Arnliot) 

Eisli  (Thorfinn) 

Gellir  (Thord) 

Eitrkveisa  (Biorn) 

Gerzki  (Gudleik) 

Elfski  (Vakr) 

Geysa  (Thorkel) 

Fagri  (Thorleik) 

Gilli  (Harald) 

Faukr  (Hakon) 

Gjaldkeri  (Thorbiorn) 

Faxi  (Thorir) 

Glumra  (Eystein) 

Fiss  (Gunni) 

Glssir6fa  (Styrkar) 

Fitjaskalli  (Aslak) 

G6Si  (Edward) 

Fjoruskeifr  (Ami) 

(Eric) 

Flekkr  (Thorgeir) 

(Grim) 

Flettir  (Harald) 

(Hakon) 

(Saxi) 

(Magnus) 

Flipr  (Paul) 

GrabarSi  (Guthorm) 

Fly  (Wolf) 

Grafeldr  (Harald) 

Frey's  priest  (Thord) 

GranrauSi  (Harald) 

Fri^kolla  (Margret) 

Grenski  (Harald) 

FriSsami  (FrdSi) 

Gullbra  (Gizur) 

Fr63i  (Ari) 

Gullbrar-skald  (Biarni) 

(Thorstein) 

Gullskegg  (Harald) 

Froekni  (Ali) 

Gulltonn  (Halfdan) 

■ (Frodi) 

Habr6k  (Hawk) 

(Holti) 

Haka  (Thrand) 

Fffigir  (Hallward) 

Haklangr  (Thorir) 

Galgi  (Thorstein) 

Haleggr  (Halfdan) 

Gamla  (Gyda) 

Haiti  (Henry) 

Gamli  (Bragi) 

Hamarskald  (Thorkel) 

■  (Erling) 

Hani  (Aslak) 

(Gorm) 

HarSgreipi  (High) 

(Hakon) 

HarSi  (Haddr) 

(Knut  the  Mighty) 

HarSmagi  (Hedin) 

(Olmod) 

Har^raSi  (Eystein) 

(Snow) 

(Harald) 

HAR — kod]             Inck 

'.X  I                                  2, 

Hareksblesi  (Hallward) 

Hviti  (Gudbrand) 

Harfagri  (Harald) 

(Hakon) 

Hauldr  (Hallward) 

(Halfdan) 

Hausakljiifr  (Thorfin) 

(Ivar) 

Havi  (Ketil) 

(Ivar) 

(Thorkel) 

(Olaf) 

HerSumhaeri  (Rognvald) 

(Roi) 

Hein  (Harald) 

(Thorstein) 

Helgi  (Edmund) 

(Thrand)  ' 

(Hallward) 

Hadl  (Eric) 

(Olaf) 

Hoggvandi  (Howard) 

Helsingr  (Thorir) 

HorSski  (Einar) 

Heppni  (Leif) 

Illi  (Biorn) 

HerSibrei^r  (Hakon) 

(Eystein) 

Hikri  (Hallward) 

IllraSi  (Ingjald) 

Himaldi  (Erlend) 

Tstrumagi  (Thord) 

Hit  (Sigurd) 

Jalda  (Asbiorn) 

Hjupa  (Sigurd) 

Jamti  (Ketil) 

Hjortr  (Sigurd) 

Jarlaskald  (Arnor) 

(Thorir) 

Jdrsalafari  (Sigurd) 

Holmskalli  (Aslak) 

Kalfr  (Ketil) 

Hornklofi  (Thorbiorn) 

Kali  (Rognvald) 

Hringr  (Sigurd) 

Kapa  (Sigurd) 

Hrisi  (Sigurd) 

Karkr  (Thormod) 

HroSi  (Alfr) 

Kau^a  (John) 

Hriiga  (Kolbeinn) 

Kaupmaftr  (Biorn) 

Hryggr  (Roald) 

Kelda  (Eyvind) 

Hukr  (Hallkel) 

Kelduskitr  (Andres) 

Hundr  (Sigurd) 

Keptr  (Thorald) 

(Thorir) 

Kesja  (Harald) 

Husfreyja  (Ssemund) 

Ketlingr  (John) 

(Thord) 

Kikina-skald  (Odd) 

Hvassi  (Harek) 

Kinnrifa  (Eyvind) 

—  (Helgi) 

Klakka  (Thorir) 

HvinantorSi  (Thorir) 

Klakki  (Kolbiorn) 

Hvinverski  (Harald) 

Kh'ningr  (Howard) 

HvitaleSr  (Sdg) 

(Olaf) 

Hvitbeinn  (Halfdan) 

Klofi  (Solvi) 

Hviti  (BarSr) 

Knarrarsmiftr  (Thorstein) 

(Gizur) 

Ko^ransbani  (Hall) 

236 


Index  I 


[kol — RYG 


Kolbrunar-skald  (Thormod) 
Konungam6:Sir  (Gunnhild) 
Konungsambatt  (Alfhild) 
Konungsbr6^ir  (Kari) 

(Worm) 

Konungsf6stri  (Skuli) 
Konungsmagr  (Ami) 
Kraki  (Rolf) 
Krepphendi  (Biorn) 
Kringluauga  (Kalf) 
Kr6kr  (Ketil) 
Kufungr  (Nicolas) 
Kiila  (Gudbrand) 
Kunta  (Rognvald) 
Kutiza  (John) 
Kvaran  (Olaf) 
Kyrri  (Olaf) 
Kcena  (Frirek) 
Lagi  (Thord) 
Langatala  (Roald) 
Langaspj6t  (William) 
Langi  (Hlodver) 

(Thorir) 

Lavar^r  (Knut) 
Leira  (Thorkel) 
Litli  (Finn) 
I.jdmi  (Gudrod) 
Lj6sa  (Asa) 
Lodbr6k  (Ragnar) 
Loftunga  (Thorarin) 
Liifa  (Harald) 
Lundas61  (Gudrun) 
Liisarskegg  (Thoralf ) 
Lygra  (Worm) 
Lyrgja  (Worm) 
Magi  (Hakon) 
Masi  (Nicolas) 
Matarilli  (Halfdan) 
Meyla  (Eystein) 
Mi^Slangr  (Thorstein) 


Mikillati  (Dan) 

(Frodi) 

(Gudrod) 

Miklimunnr  (Olvir) 
Mildi  (Gautrek) 

(Halfdan) 

(Henry) 

Mj6nefr  (Rani) 
Mj6vi  (Atli) 
Mostrstong  (Thora) 
Munnr  (Sigurd) 

(Thorfin) 

Mcerski  (Amor) 

(Karl) 

Mornefr  (John) 
Nefja  (Rolf) 

(Thorkel) 

NfSingr  (Julian) 
'OSi  (Kolbein) 
Ormr-i-auga  (Sigurd) 
Orri  (Eystein) 
PniSi  (Hugh) 
Pungelta  (Hakon) 
Rammi  (Raud) 

(Thrand) 

Rangi  (Kalf) 
Rangmunnr  (Einar) 
RauSi  (Arnor) 
(Audun) 

(Eric) 

(Gaut) 

(Wolf) 

Rau^r  (Thorstein) 
Rettilbeini  (Rognvald) 
Rika  (Ragnhild) 

Riki  (Eystein) 

(Hakon,  Earl) 

(Knut) 

Rusli  (Grim) 
Rygski  (Ketil) 


RYK — TRA] 

Rykkill  (Ragnar) 
Roskvi  (Griotgarth) 
Sandi  (Ogmund) 
SauppruSr  (Lodin) 
Selr  (Thorir) 
Selsbani  (Asbiorn) 
Sigrsseli  (Athelstane) 

(Eric) 

Sigvalda-skald  (Thord) 
Sindri  (Guthorm) 
Sipill  (Ingibiorn) 
Skafhogg  (Thorberg) 
Skakka-skald  (Thorbiorn) 
Skakki  (Erling) 
Skalaglamm  (Einar) 
Skaldaspillir  (Eyvind) 
Skaldmaer  (Jorun) 
Skalkr  (Hallward) 
Skalpr  (Simon) 
SkarSi  (Thorgaut) 
Skaufuskalli  (Thorliot) 
Skegg  (Nicolas) 

(Thorir) 

Skeggja  (Thordis) 
Skinnari  (William) 
Skinnhufa  (Thorgrim) 
Skirja  (Gudrod) 

Skjalgi  (Hroi) 

.(Thorolf) 

(Thrand) 

Skjappa  (Thorleif) 

Skjotandi  (Rolf) 

Sk6garnef  (Worm) 

Skorpa  (Ornolf ) 

Skotakollr  (Thord) 

Skrauthanki  (Ivar) 

Skreyja  (Eyvind) 

Skurfa  (Kalf) 

Skvaldri  (Haldor) 

Skygni  (Olaf) 


Index  I 


237 


Skyti  (Ann) 
Slembi-djakn  (Sigurd) 
Sleva  (Sigurd) 
Smetta  (Ivar) 
Smjorbalti  (John) 
Smyrill  (John) 
Snakr  (Eyvind) 
Snara  (Asbiorn) 
Sneis  (Ivar) 
Snillingr  (Wolfkel) 
Spaki  (Olvir) 

(Thorleif) 

Sprakaleggr  (Thorgils) 
Stami  (Thorwid) 
Standali  (Bard) 
Sterki  (Bersi) 

(John) 

(Kolbein) 

(Thorolf) 

Storkr  (Sigurd) 

Stdrra^a  (Sigrid) 

Strjdna  (Eadric) 

Sturla  (Ami) 

Stuttfeldr  (Thorarin) 

Styrjaldarmagniis     (Magnus 

Barefoot) 
Svarti  (Bard) 

(Gizur) 

(Halfdan  s.  o.  Gudrod) 

(Halfdan  s.  o.  Harald) 

(Ottar) 

(Thorfin) 

Sviptir  (Ogmund) 
Sygnski  (Arnfin) 
Syr  (Sigurd) 
Saeta  (Sigrid) 
TaparSr (John) 
Tjiiguskegg  (Sveinn) 
Toti  (Ozur) 
Trafali  (Eystein) 


238 

Treskegg  (Thorir) 
Tretelgja  (Olaf) 
Trtifasti  (Athelstane) 
Tonn  (Melbrigd) 
'Ukristni  (Haldor) 
'Ulfaldi  (Bryniolf) 
Ullserkr  (Egil) 
Ullstrengr  (Sigurd) 
Ungi  (Aslak) 

(Eindrid) 

(Harald) 

Upplenzki  (Ali) 
'Urarhorn  (Eyvind) 
'Uskeyndr  (Ali) 


Index  I 


[TRE — ORV 


Uxaf6tr  (Thorstein) 
Vandrse^askald  (Hallfred) 
Vei^ikonungr  (Gudrod) 
Veili  (Thorvald) 
Vendilkraka  (Ottar) 
ViSfafcmi  (Ivar) 
VftSforli  (Hrani) 
Viggjarskalli  (Lodin) 
Vikverski  (Harald) 
V61ubrj6tr  (Vemund) 
Ylfingr  (Hiorward) 
Jpambarskelfir  (Einar) 

Olbogi  (Eyvind) 
Orvi  (Brand) 


INDEX  II 

NAMES  OF  PLACES 
ACRE,  Acre-burg  (Akrsborg),  a  sea-port  of  Palestine,  iii.  256.^ 

2  ■%  7. 

ADALSYSLA  (ASals^sla),  a  district  of  Esthonia,  facing  the 
island  of  CEsel,  i.  53.,3  347^ 

^EGISFIRTH  (^gisfj"6r«r),"now  Oksfjord,  a  bay  that,  furthest 
to  the  west,  cuts  into  the  southern  side  of  the  island  of  Hin, 
in  Halogaland,  Norway,  iii.  3S6.20 

/ERWICK  (^Ervik),  now  Errik,  a"  manor  on  the  south  side  of 
Stad  in  Firthfolk,  Norway,  i.  2  7722 

AFRICA,  see  Serkland. 

AGDANESS,  Agdirness  (AgSanes),  now  Agdenes,  the  west- 
ernmost promontory  on  the  south  side  of  Thrandheim-firth, 
i.  1365  29132  ii.  283.^  28413  287^  iii.  263n  28210  467^  46813 

AGDIR  (Ag^ir),  a  coast  district  of  southwestern  Norway, 
bounded  to  the  west  by  Rogaland,  to  the  north  by  Hordland 
and  Thelmark,  to  the  east  by  Grenland  (and  Westmarar), 
now  'Nedenes,  Lister  og  Mandals  Fogderier,'  i.  7il7  777  l2 

IIT5  10  I255  ^is  r73g  :7422  24i7  2742i  3°3i8  3I322  378i-2 10 
ii.  589  6419  21 15  268s  323^  3488  36o22  3905  464^  111.  272G 

224l9  438oo  .       . 

AGNIS-THWAITE  (Agnafit),  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  district 
in  Sweden,  called  Taur  (q.  v.),  i.  3415;  p.  332r>  the  word 
c  strand  '  should  read  '  thwaite '  as  the  original  reads  '  fit,' 
evidently  pointing  to  the  same  place  as  'Agnafit,'  ii.  725 

ALABURG,  Alburg  (Alaborg),  now  Aalborg,  a  seaport  on  the 
inlet  to  the  Limbfirth  in  North-Jutland,  Denmark,  iii.  355, , 

367a2  47720 


240  Index  II  [alc — as-l 

ALCASSE  (Alkasse),  now  Alcazer  do  Sal,  a  town  on  the  river 
Sadoa  that,  coming  from  east,  falls  into  the  bay  of  Setubal  in 
southmost  Portugal,  hi.  2  5i24.32 

ALDEIGIA,  Aldeigia-burg  (Aldeigjuborg),  now  Old  Ladoga, 
a  town  on  the  river  Volcho,  a  short  distance  inland  from  the 
south-eastern  end  of  the  lake  of  Ladoga,  N.  Russia,  i.  34710 19 
ii-  15321  I542846628iii.  35  772 

ALPS  (Munt,  in  Sigvat's  verse  =  mont-,  the  stem  of  montes, 
rar'  ££oy//v,  the  Alps),  iii.  i29 

ALREK-STEAD  (Alrekssta«ir),  one  of  K.  Har.  Hairfair's 
manors,  in  Hordland,  now  called  Aarstad,  a  short  distance 
south-east  of  Bergen,  i.  i3730  i880  2i60 

ANCIENT-SIGTOWN  (Fornu  Sigtunir),  see  Sigtown. 

ANGELNESS  (Engilsnes),  Cap  S.  Angelo  or  Malea,  the  south- 
easternmost  point  of  Morea,  Greece,  iii.  258^ 

ANGRAR,  now  Hangran,  a  manorial  place  on  Ness,  now 
Byneset,  q.v.,  ii.  4818 

ANGLE-ISLE  (Ongull),  now  Engelo,  in  the  mouth  of  Sagfjor- 
den,  an  eastward  offshoot  from  the  Vestfjord  in  Halogaland, 
iii.  48i15 

ANGLESEA  (Ongulsey),  iii.  2  2426  28 

ANGLESEA-SOUND(6ngulseyjarsund),Menai  Strait,  between 
Anglesea  and  the  main  land,  iii.  1237  2  2  32S 

APARDION,  Aberdeen,  iii.  37515.17 

APEWATER  (Apavatn),  a  homestead  within  the  commune  of 
of  Grimsness  in  Arnessysla,  southern  Iceland,  ii.  5i16 

APULIA  (Pull),  Italy,  iii.  255^ 

AS-GARTH  ('AsgarSr),  the  chief  abode  in  As-land,  the  original 
seat  of  Odin,  a  great  stead  of  blood-offerings,  i.  I214.16 — left 
in  the  rule  of  Vili  and  Ve  when  Odin  migrated  away  from  it, 
1 5 ioi7 — a^ter  Odin's  migration  to  the  north  called  '  Asgarth 
of  old  days  '  (Asgar^r  hinn  forni),  hither  Odin  was  supposed 
to  have  gone  after  his  death  (cf.  Godhome,  Valhall),  2i26 

ASHOME,  ««  Asland. 

ASIA  (Asia),  i.  n12  i29.n 

ASK  (Askr),  'a  large  manor  in  Norderhov  district,  in  Ring- 
realm'  (Storm),  iii.  3i722 

AS-LAND  (Asaland)  or  As-home  (Asaheimr),  the  land  and 
home  of  the  Anses,  '^Esir,'  the  gods  of  the  Northmen,  lying 
to  the  east  of  Tanabranch,  i.  i212 


asm — bia]  Index  II  241 

ASMUNDBAY,   ii.    174^  =  ASMUNDSWICK   (Asmundar- 

vagr),  '  now  Osmondwall,  on  the  south  end  of  the  island  of 
Hoy'  (Anderson,  Orkneyingasaga,  1873,  p.  3,  n.  1),  i.  29000 

ii.  17437 

ATLIS-ISLE  (Atley),  now  Atleo,  on  the  northern  side  of  the 
mouth  of  DalsfjorSr  (Dalsfjord)  in  the  Folkland  of  Fialir, 
Norway,  i.  io421 

ATTWOOD  (i  VrSum),  an  unidentified  homestead,  i.  2260 

AUDSHOLT  (AuSsholt),  a  homestead  in  Olfus-Commune,  on 
the  western  side  of  Olfus-river,  lower  Arnessysla,  Iceland,  iii. 
363; 

AUMORD  (AumorS),  a  countryside  on  the  eastern  side  of 
the  Raumelf  (Glommen)  where  it  enters  the  sea,  in  the 
southernmost  reaches  of  Vingulmark,  now  the  district  of 
Borge  near  Frederiksstad,  Norway,  iii.  2  7720 

BALAGARTH-SIDE  (BalagarSssiSa),  a  coast  district  of  south- 
western Finland,  ii.  io.2i  n3 

BARWICK  (Barvik),  a  place,  uncertain  which,  on  the  coast  of 
the  province  of  Bleking  in  southern  Sweden,  ii.  32332 

BATALD  (Bataldr),  now  Batalden,  an  island  off  the  coast  of 
Firthfolk,  belonging  to  the  administrative  district  of  Nordfjord, 
Norway,  iii.  35 Ss 

BEAR-ERES  (Bjarnaurar),  now  Bjornor,  homestead  and 
countryside  in  the  north  of  North-Mere,  i.  309^ 

BEAR-ISLE  (Bjarney),  now  Bjornb,  in  the  parish  of  Borgund, 
South-Mere,  Norway,  ii.  362^ 

BEFIA  (Befja),  now  Bafvera,  a" river  running  through  the  town 
of  Uddevalla  in  Bohuslan,  S.  W.  Sweden,  iii.  42o21 

BEIARS  (Land  of  the)  (Beiaraland),  Bavaria,  iii.  2629 

BENTBERG  (Brattsberg),  the  manor  of  Gregory  Dayson, 
situated  in  the  countryside  of  HoftW,  now  Gierpen,  where 
the  modern  town  of  Skien  is  situated,  S.  Norway,  iii.  3900,, 

BERDLA  (BerSla),  now  Berle,  an  ancient  manor-house  on 
the  south-eastern  coast  of  the  large  island  of  Brimangrsland, 
now  Bremanger,  lying  in  the  mouth  of  the  Nordfjord,  Firth- 
folk, Norway,  i.  103.^.^ 

BERfiLN,  see  Biorgvin. 

BIARMLAND  (Bjarmaland),  the  land  of  the  Perms,  round  the 
basin  of  the  White-Sea,  i.  i29x  2154  ii.  258^  2i.2:>  26o3  267x 
2881.2  29%  iii.  208,, 
vi.  R 


242  Index  II  [big — bro 

BIGHTBOTTOM  (Vagsbotn),  the  head  of  the  'Vaagen,' 
Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  32  219 

BIORGVIN  (Bjorgvin,  Bjorgyn),  now  Bergen,  Norway,  founded 
by  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  192^ — 18^  22526  2635  2729  28214 
3°7i2  3l8u  3J929  32Ii9  28  3234  324n  32610  13  34o6  3422  3594 

13  38522  30  3866  39°14  39*8  15  3947  4°3l  4  6  41521  4l6i4  19  25  30 
42725  43830  44J3  18  24  44219  22  4432  44823  45725  30  458l7  29  46il7 

46631  467^  469^  4783  48o18  484,3 

BIRCHISLE  (Bjarkey),  now  '  Bjerko  i  Throndenes  i  Senjen,' 
an  island  of  Halogaland,  ii.  i9215  2i418  239^  24o13  26623  27 
28730  289^  iii.  i713  2ii2  9  27826  (where  the  words  'in  Birch- 
isle'  have  fallen  out)  356l7 

BIRCHSTRAND  (Birkistrond),  now  Berkestrand,  a  manor  of 
K.  Hakon  the  Good,  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  island  of 
Frsedi,  North-Mere,  Norway,  i.  i7517.18 

BISHOPSHAVEN  (Byskupshofn),  Bispehavn,  a  harbour  about 
a  mile  north  of  Biorgvin,  iii.  468^ 

BLACK  SEA  (Svartahaf),  i.  nn  T25.6  iii.  7515 

BLUELAND  THE   GREAT  (Blaland  hit  mikla),  Africa,  i. 

1 1\i  20 
BOKN  (B6kn),  now  Bukkeno,  in  the  mouth  of  the  great  Bay 

of  Bukkenfjord,  in  the  province  of  Rogaland,  Norway,  ii. 

35527  357i5  36113  46425 
BOLGARS  (Land  of  the),  Bulgaria,  iii.  2627 

BORG,  see  Sarpsborg. 

BORGUND,  homestead  and  country-side,  on  the  south-western 
side  of  the  peninsula  now  called  Oxeno,  in  South-Mere,  a 
short  distance  east  of  the  mod.  town  of  Aalesund,  ii.  3623 

363^ 
BORGUND-HOLM  (Borgundarh61mr),    now    Bornholm,    an 

island  in  the  Baltic  belonging  to  Denmark,  i.  25i23.24  2523 

253o  27°28  27I27-28 

BORRO  (Borr6),  now  Borre,  on  the  Christiania-firth,  i.  6912 

7°8  21 
BRENTLITHE  (BrattahliB),  Eric  the  Red's  abode  in  Eric's- 

firth  in  Greenland,  i.  35512 

BRENTRIDGE  (Brattsass)^  by  Kings'-Rock,  iii.  3277  14 

BRETLAND,  Wales,  i.  i2827  i3223  i5310  25  26i23  ii.  i7415  iii. 

I235-6  JS64  22327  224io 
BROAD  (BrerSa),  now  Breden  or  Bredebygden,  a  small  country- 


bro — cro]  Index  II  243 

side  on  the  river  Low  in  Upper  Gudbrandsdale,  ii.   2oi29 

2029  13 

BROADBEAM  (BreiSablik),  Balder's  Swedish  home,  i.  i62g 

BROADFIRTH  (Brei'SifjdrSr),  the  largest  bay  in  western  Ice- 
land, i.  2697  04  ii.  i36o 

BRUNSWICK"  (Briinsvik),  iii.  34n 

BUNESS  (Biines),  a  homestead  in  Upper  Gauldale  on  the  river 
Gaul,  within  the  Thrandheim  district,  i.  2927 

BURG,  see  Sarpsburg 

BYRDA  (ByrSa),  an  island  marking  the  boundary  point  be- 
tween North-Mere  and  Naumdale,  now  Boro,  i.  2457  3282s 

iii.  35730 

CAITHNESS  (Katanes),  district  and  earldom  of  North-eastern 
Scotland,  subdued  by  Sigurd,  Earl  of  Orkney  and  Thorstein 
the  Red,  i.  n621  i2515  1277  290^  ii.  169.,  i7o10 1713 173102028 
i74i3  x75i2  l8723  377i„iii-  374o7 

CALFSKIN  (Kalfskinn),  a  'little  stead'  (litill  ba?r),  and  a  still 
existing  farmstead  in  the  '  rape '  of '  Arnarnes,'  in  the  bailiwick 
(sysla)  of  Islefirth  (EyjafjorSr),  in  northern  Iceland,  where 
the  blinded  Upland  King  Rcerek  spent  the  last  days  of  his 
life,  and  died,  ii.i3626.<# 

CANTERBURY  (Kantarabyrgi),   taken   and  burnt  by  Olaf 

Haraldson,  ii.  i74.24 
CANTIRE   (Satiri,  "Santiri),   Scotland,   iii.   22i25   2222t3   2233 

CANTIRE-NECK   (Satiris-ei"S),   the  Tarbert  of  Cantire,  iii. 

2  2  C  „ 

CASTLEBRIDGE  (Kastalabryggja),  in  England,  iii.  i828 
CHARLES-WATER  (Karlsa),  a  river,  apparently  of  Spain, 

uncertain  which,  ii.  2019  14 
CINTRA  CASTLE,  now  Cintra,  due  north  of,  and  not  far 

distant  from,  Lisbon,  Portugal,  iii.  25o28 
CLEUCHFIRTH  (GljufrafjorSr),  apparently  the  present  Kan- 

stadfjord  running  up  from  S.  W.  into  the  southern  Hindo  in 

northern  Halogaland,  iii.  356.,., 
CLEVELAND,  (Kliflond),  in  east  Riding,  Yorkshire,  iii.  i668 
CONNAUGHT  (Kunnuktir,  Kunnoktir),  in  Ireland,  iii.  225.,., 

239is  20 
CROOKSHAW  (Kr6kaskogr),  in  the  province  of  Bohusliin, 

Sweden,  iii.  3503,  35 17  18  479,,., 


244  Index  II  [cro — dra 

CROSS-BRENT  (Krossbrekka),  now  Langbrekke,  in  Valdalen, 
on  the  north  side  of  Todarfirth  in  northernmost  South-Mere, 

iL  364i5  v    ... 

CYPRUS  (Kfpr),  in.  258^ 

DALES  (Dalar),  see  Gudbrandsdale. 

DANE-WORK  or,  shorter,  Work  (Danavirki),  now  Danevirke 
in  South-Jutland,  a  great  rampart  wall  along  the  borderline 
from  Sleswickfirth  to  Eiderfirth,  i.  25324.25  2  5519,212  565.13  24.2f> 

2574 
DEERSRIVER  (Dyrsa),  now  Diursaa,  Jutland,  Denmark,  hi. 

47Ji6 
DENMARK,  Dane-realm  (Danmork,  Danaveldi),  i.  429  529  3i25 

396  4o30  45i4  47-2131  5°e  6424  83n  9329  94io  I2824  I34-23  T572o 
1 59ri3  2i  I74io  175s  J7927  l83n  2142  217918  23232  2334  235io2» 
2360s  2372131925  249l4  254,  2552529  26o18  2687  269^  270. 21 

27115  27430  27727  2842  348i2 19  349i3  35°t  358h  3592o  36ii— 
ii-  5is22  62  117  4o26  7525  8li  9727  l6727  2o  25°i2i5  2532023 

25615   257l0   267n  21  20  3"M    3I2322  3I6ni725  32  3*7125    3*929 

32410  3269  33513  34521 2s  3465  3483i  35x2  352i2  353i2i|28 
375ie  is  3894  449u  is  45°i3— m-  9ia  ie  27  28  ioi  ie  265 11 13  24  283  9 

23  25  29lG  3°23  25  3*5  19  321  8  332  10  20  399  4521  24  465  484  29  33 
5°20  22  5*23  24  5213726  28  7221  7812  792630  8°25  9°22  25  9*15  17 
927  932125  28  31  95118  32  96i3  15  2S  976  12  Il618  23  **93  *2°14  *225 
I25332   I279   I2824I2915   I4214   I462S   I4827  29   I59l5  20  3132   *6*4 

is 31  *9422  2I33o  22I6  262i5  27Is3I429  3*726  3l82i  334i233720 
35°i4  35*22  353i5  354i  355e  359io  36i26  367-21  43725  438u 
46i10  46304  466.15  4690c,  47o25  47i102S  473i-2  4742i  477io 

DIMON,  the  '  Great  Diamond,'  an  island  in  the  southern  group 
of  the  Faroes,  between  Sando  to  the  north,  and  Sudero  to 
the  south,  ii.  246.30  2693  270^ 

DOFRAR,  now  the  parish  of  Dovre,  on  the  southern  incline 
of  Mid-Dofrafell  in  northern  Gudbrandsdale,  i.  2  5526  ii.  i9919 

iii-  113-20 
DOVRAFELL  (Dofrafjall),  a  mountain  range  running  S.  W.  to 
N.  E.  dividing,  amongst  other  districts,  that  of  Dofrar  in 
Gudbransdale,  from  Updale  in  the  Orkdalefolk  of  Thrand- 
heim,  Norway,  i.  9514  no23  iii.  ii320  2o620  20729 
DRAFN  (Drofn),  now  Drammensfjord,  S.  Norway,  ii.  3533 
DRAGSEID,  an  isthmus  on  the  peninsula  of  Stad,  in  South- 
Mere,  i.  3°8i9-20 


dub — eas]  Index  II  245 

DUBLIN  (Dyflinn),  first  conquered  of  Norsemen  by  Thorgils 
and  Frodi,  sons  of  K.  Har.-Hairfair,  i.  i3225.2S  264,3  2891120 
ii.  i88ls  iii.  i2224  239^  26 

DUBLINSHIRE,  iii.  239l3 

DWINA,  VINA  (Vina),  the  great  river  Dvina  that  runs  into  the 
bay  of  Archangel,  i.  215,3 1S  ii.  26ou 

EARL'S-CAVE  (Jarlshellir),  apparently  a  cave  west  of  the  river 
Gaul,  in  Gauldale,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Rimul,  i.  293^ 

EARL'S-DALE  (Jarlsdalr),  a  spot  somewhere  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Middlehouse,  in  Gauldale,  to  the  east  of  the  river  Gaul, 
one  of  Earl  Hakon's  hiding-places  in  his  last  days,  i.  293s 
(cf.  Hakon's  movements  till  he  passes  the  Gaul  and  gets  to 
Rimul  on  its  western  side,  293^2943) 

EARL'S-ISLE  (Jarlsey),  now  Jerso  in  the  Christiania-firth,  out- 
side the  town  of  Tonsberg,  i.  697 

EASTERN  DALES  (Eystridalir),  now  Osterdalen,  to  the  east 
of,  and  running  parallel  with,  the  Gudbrands-dale,  ii.  33822 

339i  9 
EAST-AGDIR,  see  Agdir. 

EASTAIRT,  see  Eastort. 

EAST-COUNTRIES,  see  Eastway,  Eastways. 

EASTFIRTHS  (AustfirSir),  a  collective  term  for  the  indented 
eastern  seaboard  of  Iceland  from  Langanes  in  the  north  to 
Starmyrartangi,  on  the  southern  side  of  Swanfirth,  in  the 

south,  i.  2>2Z\\v> 
EASTISLE  (Austrey),  one  of  the  middle  group  of  the  Faroes, 

ii.  269,3  3°525 

EASTLANDS  (Austrlond),  see  Eastway. 

EAST-REALM  (Austrriki),  a  general  term  for  dominions  bor- 
dering on  the  eastern  Baltic,  i.  6420 — specially  the  east  of 
Europe,  vaguely  comprising  what  now  is  understood  by  Russia 
in  Europe,  iii.  7523 

EASTORT  (Austria),  now  Osteraat,  a  manor  on  the  eastern 
side  of  Yrjar  (Orlandet)  on  the  northern  side  of  the  mouth 
of  Thrandheimfirth,  i.  3232  iii.  iii417  336:m  25 

EAST-SALT,  Eastsalt-sea  (Eystrasalt),  the  Baltic  Sea,  i.  25i22 

ii.  64 
EASTWAY— ways  (Austrlond,  Austrvegr,  Austrvegar),  gener- 
ally lands  to  the  east  of  the  Baltic  Sea,  exceptionally  in- 
cluding even  Sweden,  i.   32^  (Sweden)  4718  52,,  (Sweden) 


246  Index  II  [edn — eld 

53l2  14   IX730    Il8l     I2813   24   I35l     15931   l6°3   X  749  2IOl7  2II13 

2143  2S  2  84u  28521  (Sweden)— 11.  6531  7920  8i19  829  15  991S 
i202/i2i23  isi20  (Sweden)  iii.  3ol7  5910  779  32 

EDNI  (E'Sni),  now  Etne,  a  country-side  in  South-Hordland, 
on  the  boundary  of  Rogaland,  iii.  39 16 

EGGIA  (Egg,  gen.  Eggjar,  dat.  Eggju),  now  Egge,  in  Spare- 
bidersfolk  at  the  head  of  Thrandheim-firth,  a  short  distance 
north  of  Steinker,  the  seat  of  Thrand  o' Chin,  i.  I7o20 — and 
(of  his  son?)  Olver,  ii.  i9320  19835  28619  3415  3745  4534  46315 
464^  iii.  2on  29  2i18 

1.  EID  (ErS),  ii.  io9l7  =  Eidshaw. 

2.  EID,  a  manor  situated  a  short  distance  south  of  the  Lake 
Miors  on  the  western  side  of  its  river  outlet,  the  Verma 
(Vormen),  near  the  present  Eidsvold,  ii.  io7ir — here  was 
the  meeting-place  of  the  '  Heidssevis-Thing,'  first  established 
by  Halfdan  the  Black,  i.  i6o30.32 — under  Olaf  the  Holy 
the  meeting-place  was  moved  to  the  Eidswalls  or  Eids-plains, 
'Eidsvold,'  on  the  east  side  of  the  river  (cf.  summoned  a 
thronged  Thing  in  the  place  where,  ever  since,  the  Heidsaevis 
Thing  has  been  holden),  ii.  2io15.17 

3.  EID,  or  the  Inner-Eid,  the  upper  part  of  the  isthmus 
which  connects  the  peninsula  of  Stad,  q.v.,  with  the  main- 
land on  the  northern  side  of  Nordfjord  in  Firthfolk,  now 
called  Mandseid,  i.  io3ir  i7515  27512 

4.  EID,  better  than  Eydi.  a  country-side  east  of  Vingulmark 
and  south  of  the  lake  Eyjir  (Oieren),  now  called  Askim,  i.  8o22 

5.  EID  (EiSar),  possibly  what  now  is  known  as  'Stora  Ed,' 
below  Vanersborg  on  the  Gotaelf  (Hildebrand),  ii.  i4513  ir  2S 

EIDSHAW,  EIDWOOD  (EiSaskogr),  1.  a  wooded  heathland 
rise,  forming  a  part  boundary  between  Vermland  to  the  east 
and  Solisles  to  the  west,  i.  67s  io613  ii.  7622  io917  277^  36833 

3^917  39°-23 

2.  A  woodland  tract  east  of  Eid  below  Vanersborg,  ii.  i4524 

14714  30 
EIGHTH-LAND  ('Attundaland),  now  the  south-eastern  part 

of  the  Swedish  province  of  Upland,  i.  586  6i19  ii.  ii225 
EIKUNDSOUND  (Eikundasund),  now  Egersund,  in  southern 

Rogaland,  ii.  26810  348^  35i24  35415 
ELD  A,  now  Elden,  a  manor  on  the  isthmus  called  EldueiS, 

which  is  formed  by  the  Lyngenfjord  from  the  north  in  Naum- 


elf — err]  Index  II  247 

dale  and  the  northernmost  inlet  from  Beitstadfjord  in  Thrand- 
heim,  iii.  41503  4i6x 

ELF,  see  Gauteif. 

ELFHOME  (Alfheimar),  the  maritime  district  on  the  east  side 
of  the  Wick,  the  northern  boundary  of  which  was  the  Raumelf, 
and  the  southern  the  Gautelf,  i.  7o2S  31  8o20 

ELLIPALTA,  uncertain,  perhaps  Kerson  Bay,  from  where  an 
inland  waterway  much  frequented  by  the  'Pwc  or  Russian 
Scandinavians  led  by  the  Dnieper  up  to  their  northern  do- 
minions, iii.  7522 — Munch,  'Samlede  Afhandlinger,'  ii.  221, 
shows  that  Ellipalta  is  a  corruption  of  Ele  palus  ("i\i]v  palu- 
dem)  Jordanes,  ch.  23,  stating  that 'EX?;  alone  =  Palus  Maotis, 
the  sea  of  Azof,  which,  however,  cannot  be  meant  by  our  text. 

ENEA,  another  name  for  Europe,  i.  n14 

ENGLAND,  i.  529  64^  138^  139^  31  149,.  1523  u  25  i53l4  ._,- 

IS429   J567   l6.423   20I13    26l15   27   264l6   17   24   2664  20   27210  3°22 

3247  34x29 1L  I21S  20  23  27  r32   *726   l89  2^1  23  27l  5  9  11  19  284 

5  10  21  293  335  4°25  8ll   l6727  28  2355  25°12  24   25*2   25221   25323 

2552i  256s  ii  2672i  2s  28623  29!24  31  h  ii  3x32i  29  3*47  3^10  is 
3179  3342  34613  353is  375i5  17  21  376ir  29  si  377i7  38826  45216 

4543 "I-  924  2S  31   259  1112  3°26  5X25  523  4  2S31   539   J55l2   J57l7 

19  26  x5"9  x5923  27  2S  I0°i  24  25  27  I"Il  4  22  24  32  I"26  14  J"33  *  "4i5 

i667  i6q4  7  i745  9  17  ig  i8o7  9  23  i8i9  10  u  i824  18  21  28  i8312 

l84is  !98i  12  22929  2497  37533  376n  12  32  46321  22 
ENGLAND'S-MAIN  (Englandshaf),  the  North-Sea,  ii.  29in 

1.  ERES  (Eyrar),  the  harbour  now  known  as  that  of  Eyrabakki, 
on  the  east  side  of  '  Olfusa,'  in  Arnessysla,  southern  Iceland, 
24213 

2.  ERES  (Eyrar),  the  shingly  shores  on  the  western  side  of  the 
mouth  of  the  river  Nid,  by  the  sea,  a  short  distance  below 
the  old  town  of  Nidoyce,  a  Thingstead,  part  of  which  was 
used  as  a  ship-building  yard,  iii.  i2g5  2O710  46831  (where  the 
rendering  of  the  text  should  read,  'out  to  the  Eres,  for  a 
Thing '),  4823  20 

ERESOUND  (Eyrarsund),  see  Eyre-sound. 

ERNENESS  (Arnarnes),  an  unknown  locality,  and  apparently 
a  mistake  for  Trondness  (prandarnes),  which  some  other  re- 
dactions of  the  Kings'  Stories  have,  iii.  273^ 

ERRI,  now  Mxo,  an  island  of  Denmark,  south  of  the  island  of 
Fion,  and  west  of  that  of  Langeland,  iii.  3542 


248  Index  II  [est — fin 

ESTHONIA,  Estland  (Eistland),  i.  53^  54H  i2814 13219  22920  23 

3oo14  ii.  no,,, 
ESTLAND,  see  Esthonia. 
EUROPE  (Europa),  i.  n13  i29 
EYDI,  see  Eid,  3. 

EYI,  the  lake  Ojer(en)  in  southern  Raumrealm,  formed  by  the 
Raumelf,  i.  8o22  According  to  the  reading  of  the  best  MSS. 
of  Heimskringla,  this  is  the  form  of  the  name  (cf.  F.  Jonsson's 
ed.,  i.  9o5  footnote),  but  Eyjir  seems  to  be  the  form  war- 
ranted by  Norw.  charters,  and  on  that  form  depends  the 
modern  Ojer. 

EYJAFIRTH  (EyjafjorSr),  in  the  north  of  Iceland,  i.  2692  23 
ii.  2432 

EYNA-SKERRIES  (i.  8o22),  dele  skerries,  and  for  Eyna,  see  Eyi. 

EYRE-SOUND,  Eresound  (Eyrarsund),  the  sound  between  the 

Danish  island  of  Sealand  and  the  Western  coast  of  Sweden, 

now  Oresund,  or  Sundet,  i.  4724  i576  258^  358^  ii.  325^ 

32730  33°4  33*14  35229  "I-  I47n  2855  3542 
FALSTER  (Falstr),  a  Danish  island  south  of  Sealand,  iii.  4928 

5°2  97i 
FAROE,  Faroes  (Faereyjar),  according  to  Snorri,  discovered 

and  peopled  in  consequence  of  Harald's  conquests  in  Norway, 

i.  H322  ii.  691G  24i15  246^  2S  247^  26  31  249^  2503  2694  6  9 

27219  27332  S031  3°4o-2  26  3i°i  2 

FETTLEFIRTH  (Fetlafiortfr),  in  France,  ii.  i915  19 
FIADRUNDALAND  (FjaSrundaland),  now  Fjerdhundra,  a 

part  of  Upland  in  Sweden,  i.  555  583.4  6i18  ii.  ii223 
FIALIR  (Fjalir),  the  south-western  part  of  Firthfolk,  Norway, 

1  io4is  29  353is  37733  "•  3°27 
FIFE  (Fifi),  '  kingdom '  of  eastern  Scotland,  tributary  to  Knut 

the  Mighty,  ii.  (253^)  25433-2557 

FINN-ISLE  (Finney),  an  island  off  the  coast  of  Rogaland, 

some  distance  north  of  the  town  of  Stavanger,  Norway,  ii. 

39°n  4348 
FINLAND  (Finnland),  i.  2630  276  8  3312  18.19  ii.  io2  i2026 

FINMARK  (Finn-mork),  the  northernmost  part  of  Norway  from 

Malangfirth,  east  to  the  White-sea,  boundaries  however  very 

uncertain  (the  Egilsaga  says  that  the  eastern  (inland)  Finmark 

stretched  as  far  south  as  did  Halogaland  in  the  west),  i.  1293 

ii.  76,3  25821  2  776 


fio — frje]  Index  II  249 

FION  (Fjon),  now  Fyen,  Engl.  Funen,  the  next  largest  island 
of  Denmark,  i.   i523  iii.  34a  389  39i  44r  32  45-2  9  4^2  5°v  11 

78.M  81  I2016  I2I4  I327 

FIRTH-FOLK,  FIRTH-COUNTRY,  FIRTHLAND,  or 
FIRTHS  (FirSafylki,  FirSir),  now  Nord-og  Sondfjord  in 
Bergens-Stift,  a  petty  maritime  kingdom  of  old  Norway,  i. 
ioi18  io37  io46  21328  237^  2400-  2440-  275^  3o821  353hj 
37733  "•  2o6742319  iii.  344^  3943  441.;  443-26  447; 

FITlAR  (Fitjar),  one  of  K.  Har.  Hairfair's  manors,  on  the 
north-western  side  of  Stord,  off  South  Hordaland,  i.  i3730 
181,  18400  iii.  2  32 

FLANDERS  (Flsemingjaland),  i.  26o2S  ii.  i32  8ix  iii.  159^  i63x 

l693  2379 
FLORU-BIGHTS  (F16ruvagar),  now  Florevaagen,  an  inlet  on 

the  eastern  side  of  the  island  anciently  called  Fenhringr,  now 

Askoen,  outside  the  city  of  Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  32i29  390^ 

FOLD  (Fold,  Foldin),  now  Christiania  fjord,  with  the  adjacent 

litoral,  Norway,  i.  106!  io830  2ii10  ii.  344  6219  7531  348s  ]6 

3539  "I-  394-21  45 9m 
FOLD,  short  for  Westfold,  q.v. 
FORCE  (Fors),  now  Foss,  in  the  district  of  Tunge;  at  the  head 

of  Gullmarsfjard  in  Bohuslan,  Sweden,  iii.  31530  395.21  24 
FORCE  (Fors),  now  Fossum,  on  the  river  Befja,  near  to  the 

town  of  Uddevalla,  Bohuslan,  S.W.  Sweden,  iii.  42°i3 
FORLAND,  now  Folland,  a  manor  on  the  island  of  Avero,  off 

the  coast  of  North-Mere,  iii.  44iI4 
FORMINTERRA,  now  Formenterra,  the  most  south-westerly 

of  the  Ballearic  islands,  iii.  252^  25333 
FOXERN  (Foxerni),  a  homestead  on  the  eastern  bank  of  the 

Gautelf,  in   the   countryside  called    Flundreharad,   Sweden 

(Hildebrand),  iii.  229n  230^  23 10 
FRANKLAND  (Frakkland),  Franconia,  i.  255,3 
FREK-ISLE    SOUND  (Frekeyjarsund),  a  sea-strait  between 

Frek-isle  (Frekey),  now  Froko,  and  Stim,  on  the  north  side 

of  Raumsdale  mouth,  Norway,  ii.  362^  1S  463. , 
FR^EDI  (FrarSi),  now  Frsedo  or  Fredo,  an  island  off  North- 
mere,  Norway,  i.  1 7517 
FR/EDISBERG  (FrasSarberg),  a  crag  formation  in  the  island 

of  Fraedi,  abutting  on  Sheppey-Sound  on  the  east  of  the 

island,  i.  1 7631  1773  i8on 


250  Index  II  [fri — gau 

FRISLAND,  or  Friesland  (Frisland),  i.  i2824.25  255^  26o27  302! 

"•  I23  792oiu-  x59i4 
FROST  A,  a  peninsula  running  from  the  east  into  Thrandheim 

firth,  within  the  Folkland  of  Strind,  the  site  of  the  Frosta- 

Thing,  i.  166^  3i622  3i826  ii.  4923  hi.  334,, 
FYRI,  now  Fyrisa,  a  river  running  through  Upsala  into  the  lake 

of  Malaren,  Sweden,  i.  3o12 
FYRILEIF,  now  Farlof,  in  the  district  of  Tunge  at  the  head  of 

Gullmarsfjard  in  Bohuslan,  Sweden,  iii.  3i6x  3i7x  3244 
FYRIS-MEAD  (Fyrisvellir),  alluvial  plains  on  either  side  of  the 

Fyri,  i.  3o12  37,3  38ie  4°r  5°2i 
GALIZIALAND,  Galicia,  Spain,  iii.  249.33 
GARTH  (ii.  434s),  read  Gerdi,  q.v. 
GARTHREALM,    GARTHS    (GarSariki,    GarSar),    Russia 

generally,  i.  I51S  22828  23i1023  250^3  2535  26230  28610  28830 

28gl    34713  22  24—"-    664    8l27  822    *4933     X5322  24    I5425.36926 

37526  38oo  38loi2  3832s  3893o  4i624  438n  4548  4-6627 — iii.  316 

46  IO!8   r42V   J54  12  5816  23   599   7534  77lO  32     43729 

GATE  (Gata),  the  abode  of  Thrand,  on  the  eastern  side  of 
East-isle  in  the  Faroes,  ii.  24621  269^  27333  3°429  3°^i  3io3 

GAUL,  now  Gulelven,  the  main  river  of  Gauldale  in  Thrand- 
heim, i.  29303 

GAULAR,  a  countryside  round  the  inner  part  of  Dalesfirth  in 
the  folkland  of  Fialir,  part  of  the  present  Sondfjord,  Norway, 

i-   7929  I<D4i2  15 

GAULDALE  (Gaulardalr),  now  Gaul-  or  Gul-dalen,  a  folkland 
of  Southern  Thrandheim  to  the  east  of  Orkdale,  i.  9518  9628 
i6719  2924  2969  298s  3i812— ii.  4622  4927  S34  8  7218 

GAULDALE-FOLK,  i.  9630— ii.  4724 

GAULEDGE,  Gaulridge  (Gaularass),  properly  the  highland 
boundary  between  Gauldale  to  the  west  and  Strindfolk  to  the 
east,  but  by  Snorri  only  referred  to  in  the  narrower  sense  as 
the  ridge  that  bounded  the  township  of  Nidoyce  by  W.  and 
N.W.,  now  called  Byaasen,  ii.  537  7224  2798 

GAUTELF,  or,  short,  Elf  (Gautelfr,  Elfr),  now  Gotaelf,  the 
ancient  boundary  between  Norway  and  West  Gautland,  i.  65^3 
7°32  IQ52i  IQ9i6  19  IIOi5is  I28io  I3I23  t32i7  3ioi5  377?7 — "• 

7645  20   7824  8321  84,5  22   I23l3   I57l5  2II23  26730  3I217— m"  1025 
2830  2924  3!l2  97l4  23  993  I29l6  Z3XSB  28  J474  H923  X9729  2l6ir 

22614  2313  2328  3548  4O320  4394  457i4 


gau — gim]  Index  II  251 

GAUTLAND,  now  Gotland,  originally  a  kingdom  stretching 
from  the  western  to  the  eastern  sea,  bounded  by  north  by  the 
dominion  of  the  Sviar,  SviJjjoS,  i.  567 — by  the  lake  '  Vettern  ' 
it  was  divided  into  West-  and  East-Gautland  (Gautland  it 
vestra,  it  eystra),  which  distinction  is  frequently  ignored  by 
Snorri,  who  by  Gautland  now  means  the  one  now  the  other 
division.  Here  they  are  classed  according  as  the  context 
seems  to  warrant : 

West-Gautland. — i.  42n  13  2~  6i]8.19  633  io51(i  io81(1  no14 
123.^  2593  22  (either  Gautland",  all  Gautland)  35619  21  32 — ii. 

23lo"  799   93ll   29  9605   9726  IOI25   II213   I2223   *3*U    I3920   J428 

i43l2  i4426  i4534 15033  i5i2s  153,3  i554  10 12  i6625  2574  267^ 
2687  27522  33°2o  333s  345ir  35222 — m-  J4615  i49w  22622  20 

2283o  35°i3  15  399i4  399i4  22  4°27  46in 

East-Gautland. — i.  6ir,  158^  2583^,  (259.,  22)  ii.  H2ir  i5422 

I553i-I56i — iii-33i7(?)3817(?)4434(?)492o(?)'-"inthesequerie"d 
cases  presumably  East-Gautland  is  meant  rather  than  West- 
Gautland. 

GAUT-SKERRIES  (Gautasker),  the  archipelago  off  the  coast 
of  East-Gautland,  i.  258^ 

GEIRSTEAD  (GeirsstaSir),  the  seat  of  King  Olaf  Geirstead- 
Elf,  in  Westfold,  now  called  Gjerstad,  on  the  bay  of  Laurvik, 

GEIRSVER,  now  Gjesvaer  (Munch),  a  fishing  station  'N.W.  of 
Magero '  (G.  Storm)  which  lies  on  the  western  side  of  the 
mouth  of  Porsanger  Fjord  in  Western  Finmark,  ii.  26403 

GELMIN  (Gelmin),  now  Gjolme,  a  manor  in  lower  Orkdale 
on  the  western  side  of  the  Ork  river,  Thrandheim,  Norway, 
ii.  4815 

GERDI  (GerSi),  now  Gerde,  a  homestead  on  a  south-east 
going  inlet  from  the  Skoneviksfjord,  in  the  district  of  Etne, 
South-Hordland,  Norway,  ii.  39on  434^ — hi.  37 16 

GIANT-HOME  Qotun-heimar),  i.  i527 

GIANT-ISLES  (Jpursasker),  rocks  supposed  by  some  to  be  in 
Shetland,  by  others  outside  Thurso,  or  north  of  Caithness,  in 
Scotland;  but  perhaps  the  Giant's  Causeway  in  Ireland  is 
meant,  ii.  i88lg 

GILLING  (Gylli'ng),  one  of  the  islands  belonging  to  the  group 
of  God-isles,  q.v.,  i.  33328 

GIMSAR,  now  Gjemse,  a"  manor  on  the  western  bank  of  the 


252  Index  II  [gim — gre 

Gaulelf  in  the  lower  part  of  Gauldale,  i.  2  77n  319,,  3635 — iii. 

349s  35°i 

GIMSEY,  a  nuns'  seat  in  Hofund,  q.v.,  S.  Norway;  situated 
on  a  small  island  below  the  town  of  Skida,  mod.  Skien,  and 
was  founded  a.d.  iiio,  iii.  42i29 

GISKI  (Gizki),  now  Gisko,  an  island  off  the  coast  of  South- 
mere,  in  Norway,  ii.  280!  9  46300  iii.  20903  22529 

GODHOME  (goftheimar)  =  Sweden  the  Great,  i.e.,  Scythia,  i. 
2i16  2524  32 — apparently  =  Valhall,  2i24 

GOD-ISLE  (Go^ey,  or  -ar),  in  singular  the  name  of  the  single 
island,  now  called  Godo,  in  plural  comprising  also  the  sur- 
rounding group  of  lesser  isles  in  the  mouth  of  Salpt-firth, 
now  Saltenfjord,  in  Halogaland,  i.  329n  330,.  332^  33309 

GOD-ISLES'  STREAM  (GoSeyja-straumr),  a  sea-current'  be- 
tween Godisles'  group  and  the  mainland,  i.  33331 

GODNFIRTH  (GoSnarfjorSr),  now  Randersfjord,  on  Eastern 
Jutland,  Denmark,  iii.  9416  21 

GOLDPORT  (Gullvarta),  the  Golden  Port  in  Constantinople, 

Jii-  259i4  is 
GOTHLAND,  see  Reith  Gothland. 

GOTHLAND,  Gotland,  the  large  island  Gotland  off  the  S.E. 

coast  of  Sweden,  i.  254^  29  255,3  34°^  15  n-  ^27  92  %2n  II2i9 

373i5  3862S 
GREENINGS  (Grceningar),  now  Groning,  a  homestead  up  land 

above  Skerf-scree,  q.v.,  ii.  36610 
GR^ENING-SOUND  (Grceningjasund),   a  sea-strait  between 

the  island  of  Sartoro  and  the  Lyderhorn  peninsula,  S.W.  of 

Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  39314 
GRAVED  ALE  (Grafdalr),  now  Gravdal,  on  the  eastern  side 

of  Kvarven,  the  northernmost  spur  of  the  Lyderhorn,  S.W.  of 

Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  45830 
GREECE  =  Greekland. 
GREEKLAND  (Grikkland),  Greece,  ii.  35o26  iii.  59n  24  6o6 

748  25823  3°929  332ie  42927 
GREEKLAND'S  MAIN,  Greekland's  Sea  (Grikklandshaf),  the 

eastern  Mediterranean,  iii.  5930  2  5530  256^ 
GREEKLAND'S  SALT-SEA  (Griksalt),  id.,  iii.  256^ 
GREENLAND  (Greenland),  i.  34il7  18  35 54  10 16— ii.  i3431  33 

J352  20  24ii5 


gre — hak]  Index  II  253 

GREENLAND  MAIN  (Graenlandshaf),  the  sea  between  Ice- 
land and  Greenland,  ii.  136^ 

GRENLAND,  a  part  of  the  folkland  later  called  Grcenafylki 
(see  Munch's  '  Historisk-geographisk  Beskrivelse  over  Kon- 
geriget  Norge,'  p.  179-180),  i.  2i210 — ii.  3.- — iii.  2  2  29 

GRENMAR  (Grenmarr),  now  Langesundsfjorden,  in  Southern 
Norway,  i.  105^— ii.  5519 

GRIMSBY  (Grimsboer),  not  in  Northumberland,  as  Snorn 
seems  to  think,  but  in  Lincolnshire,  i.  15230 

GRIMSEY  (Grimsey),  an  island  in  the  Arctic  Ocean  some 
twelve  miles  north  of  the  mouth  of  Eyjafirth,  Iceland,  ii.  2433 
244o0 — 'common  property,'  according  to  Gudmund  Eyolfson's 
statement,  when,  in  1024,  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  asked  the  Ice- 
landers to  concede  it  him,  ii.  2423^2435  10.15 

GRIOTAR  (Grj6tar),  a  homestead  on  the  eastern  side  of  the 
main  river  of  Orkdale,  about  midway  up  the  valley,  ii.  46.,,, 

GRISLA-POOL  (Grislupollar),  a  place  apparently  in  France, 

ii-  J94  9 
GRITING  (Grytingr),  a  homestead  in  Orkdale,  possibly  the 

same  as  the  above  Griotar,  q.v.,  i.  i6918  i7o]0  3197 

GUDBRANDSDALE,   Dales,   (GuSbrandsdalir,    Dalir),  now 

Gudbrandsdalen  in  Norway,  i.  7822  30  93^  9513  i3i19 — ii.  4^4 

45l.3  5320  543  IQ3l2  IQ525  IQ924   2OO10  20   20I27  2O320  2°93   23425 

2489s  3672'.«  .     ^ 

GUNVALDSBURG  (Gunnvaldsborg),  a  place  in  trance  (?), 

ii.  i923  2o6 

HAD  ALAND,  Hathaland  (HaSaland),  one  of  the  folks  of  the 

Uplands  in  S.E.  Norway,  now  called  Hadeland,  i.  67-23  7225 

79o  81.,-  822713  8513  8612  930  i224  yi^  133723— iL  4%  29 

45i6  io3i3  T°4io  io926  2°9i,;  249u— 111.  15412  48330 

HIRING,  one  of  the  islands  belonging  to  the  group  of  God- 
isles,  q.v.,  i.  33328 

HAFURSFIRTH  (HafrsfjorSr),  now  Hafsfjord,  in  Jadar,  in 
Rogaland,  Norway,  i.  ni23  H25  1133 

HAKISDALE  (Hakadalr),  now  Hakedalen,  a  valley  anciently 
forming  a  portion  of  the  boundary  between  south-eastern 
Hadaland  and  north-western  Raumrick,  the  locality  of  King 
Harald  Hairfair's  first  battle,  i.  927 

HAKON'S-CRAG  (Hakonarhella),  now  generally  called  Hell 
ren,  the  rock  on  which  King  Hakon  the  Good  was  born  and 


254  Index  II  [hal — hea 

where  he  died,  situate  on  a  promontory  of  a  peninsula  S.W. 
of  Bergen,  i.  i38l7,  where  the  locality  is  indicated  as  on  the 
flat  stone,  'a  hellunni,'  i887  20.21 
HALLAND,  a  province  in  the  south-west  of  Sweden,  bearing 
still  the  same  name  as  of  old,  i.  i5613  i6o1(5 — ii.  3253 — iii.  38s 

I22io  I32is  I35is  H215  2o815  21  318!  47321 
HALLKELL'S-WICK  (Hallkelsvik),   a  small  inlet  into  the 

mainland  in  Southmere,  due  south  of  Hodisle,  q.v.,  i.  27639 
HALOGALAND  (Halogaland),  now  commonly  called  Helge- 

land,  the  northernmost  division  of  Norway,  corresponding 

about  to  what  is  now  meant  by  the  term  '  Nordland(ene),'  i. 

39s  413  S°27  31  I297  i3°m  x3H\  :74r  2l8is  2456  2742  2 7 7 10 
3°9is2o  32828  3292i  33°i  3434  3442s  35°3o  35522  3773s — n- 
l89is  22  ^On  21  I9Ii3  I92i2  19  2378  2s  258i6  287n  21  27  2884 
292s  3332  347i2  20  39725—™-   l8ir  l83i5  2IO30  2II22  263i7 

274l3  22  278263561048Il5 

HAMMERFIRTH  (HamarsfjorSr),  the  outer  part  of  Ostrar- 
fjorSr  (now  Osterfjord),  which  bounds  by  N.W.  the  large 
island  of  Ostero,  North-Hordland,  Norway,  iii.  35821 

HANGRAR,  a  place,  uncertain  where  exactly,  in  Sweden,  iii. 

4i2  5l7 

HARDANG,  Hardanger  (HarSangr),  the  modern  Hardanger, 
the  country  along  either  side  of  Hardang-firth  in  Hordland, 
i.  2o8lT20  2i65 — Snorri's  etymology  of  the  name,  237^3  iii. 

39!5 
HARM,  Harm  firth  (Harmr),  now  called  Velfjord,  which  from 

N.W.  cuts  into  southernmost  Halogaland,  iii.  2ii23  2139 
HARTLEPOOL,  Hiartapool  (Hjartapollr),  iii.  375,0  28 
HATHALAND,  see  Hadaland. 
HAWKBY  (Haukbaer),  now  Hakeby,  in  the  north  of  Bohuslan, 

Sweden,  iii.  2026 
HAWKDALE  (Haukadalr),  a  homestead  within  Arness^sla  in 

southern  Iceland,  28  miles  N.E.  of  Thingvellir,  i.  612  97  30 
HAWKFLEET  (Hauksflj6t)  ?  i.  15233 
HEADEY,  Headisle  (Hofu^ey),  now  Hovedoen,  an  island  out 

in  the  firth,  off  Christiana,  Norway,  iii.  352l7  424^ 
HEATHBY  (HeiSaby,  -baer),  now  Schlesvig,  N.  Germany,  i. 

2  6o18— iii.  3418  98.25  28  997  2  62l7 
HEATHMARK  (HeiSmork),  petty  kingdom  on  lake  Miors, 

southern  Norway,  i.  6720  22  7225  7724  78Si9  20  24  793  82io  862s 


hea — hix]  Index  II  255 

9ii-  92ioi9  935  x3ii9  378oo— ii.  4103  544r  io3;,  14  17  105n 
10900,  20971113  248w33821  34i10  S447  3673,— '"•  L54, 

HE  AVENBERG  (Himinbjorg),  the  seat  of  Heimdall  in  Sweden, 
i.  16.,, 

HEAVEN-FELL(S)  (Himinfjbll),  i.  56^  =  Heavenheath. 

HKAVENHEATH  (HiminheiSr),  a  mountain  tract  in  Sweden, 

i-  56is 

HEDALE  (Hedalr),  now  Hedalen,  a  valley  south  of  Vagi  in 
northern  Gudbrandsdale,  Norway,  ii.  2oon 

HEFRING  (Hefringr),  now  Hovringen,  a  promontory  on  the 
north-western  side  of  the  bight  at  the  head  of  which  lay  the 
city  of  Nidoyce,  iii.  2O70  2io25 

HELSINGLAND  (Helsingjaland),  now  the  Swedish  province 
of  Helsingland,  i.  ii316  i62.2031  i6sG  2i4l5 17 27— ii.  65.,  6610 
2761319  2  7  77  4i522  466.25—in.  616  i416  58s 

HELSINGPORT  (Helsingjaport),  Hastings,  iii.  i8i„ 

HERDALES  (Herdalir),  a  countryside  of  Finland,  ii.  ios31 

HERDHOLT  (HjarSarholt),  in  Salmonriverdale,  in  the  baili- 
wick of  'Dalasysla,'  western  Iceland,  iii.  10307 

HER-ISLES  (Hereyjar),  now  Hero,  a  group  of  small  islands 
situate  N.  of  Gursko  and  W.  of  Hareidland,  in  South-Mere, 
Norway,  i.  275^— ii.  30227  3613,, 

HERDLA  (Hernia),  now  Herloen,  a  small  island  in  the  archi- 
pelago N.W.  of  Bergen,  North-Hordland,  Norway,  iii.  358.^ 

37°25 

HERNA,  an  island  of  the  group  called  Hernar,  now  Hennoer, 
outside  the  coast  of  North-Hordland  in  Norway,  ii.  27o.,4 

HERNEWICK  (Hegravik),  now  Sandviken,  at  Bergen,  Nor- 
way, iii.  32204 

HESIATOWN  (Hesjutiin),  now  Hestun  (al.  Estun  or  Ostun), 
a  homestead  on  the  island  now  called  Havno,  north  of  the 
mouth  of  Harmr,  or  Velfjorden,  in  southern  Halogaland, 
Norway,  iii.  2ii.,7 

HJALTLAND,  see  Shetland. 

HILL-ISLE  (Hillar),  now  Hillo,  an  island  off  the  coast  of  East- 
Agdir,  a  short  distance  to  the  S.W.  of  the  present  town  of 
Mandal,  iii.  13,, 

HILL-SOUND  (Hillarsund),  the  strait  between  Hill-isle  and 
the  mainland,  iii.  130 

HIN  (Hinn),  now  Hinno,  a  large  island  in  northern  Halogaland 


256  Index  II  [hjo — hol 

forming  part  of  the  northern  sea-board  of  the  large  Vestfjord, 

hi.  35621 
HJORNAGLI   (Hjornagli),   now  Tjternaglen,  a  place  in  the 

southernmost  part  of  South-Hordland  (Storm),  ii.  35i31 
HIORUND-FIRTH  (HjorundarfjorSr),   a   bay  that  by  east 

divides  the  island  of  Hod  (Hodisle)  from  the  mainland  of 

middle  Southmere,  Norway,  i.  2  7613 
HIORUNGWICK   (Hjorungavagr),  an  inlet  on    the   north- 
eastern side  of  Hodisle,  now  called  Lid-Vaag  or  Hjoring- 

Lid-Vaag  (Munch),  or  Liavag  (Storm),  i.  2773  28630 
HIPPODROME  (PaSreimr),  in  Constantinople,  iii.  26oa  12 
HISING,  a  large  island  in  the  mouth  of  the  Gautelf,  Sweden, 

ii.  766  8i9  i6634— iii.  3273  374^  403^  407^  4552s  456i  3  459is 
HLEITHRA  (HlerSr),   now  Leire,   in   the  Danish  island  of 

Sealand,  i.  i62  2422  4928  5°3  13  SI28_ in-  x342o 
HLESISLE,  see  Leesisle. 
HODISLE,   Hod  (HoS,   gen.   Ha^ar),  now  Hareid-Land,  a 

large  island  off  the  southern  part  of  Southmere,  on  the  eastern 

side  of  which  is  Hiorungwick,  i.  276x  24  277x 
HOF,  a  homestead  in  West-Gautland,  now  Stora-Hof,  ii.  14535 

1464 

HOF,  now  Hove,  or  Thorhoven,  a  homestead  with  a  Thor's 
temple,  situated  in  the  landscape  called  Broad,  q.v.,  in  north- 
ern Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  2oi32  (cf.  19.27) 

HOFUND  (Hofund),  now  the  countryside  called  Gjerpen 
about  the  town  of  Skien,  S.  Norway,  iii.  3Qo29  39 12  42i2s 

HOLDERNESS  (Hellornes),  the  south-easternmost  country- 
side of  the  East  Riding  of  Yorkshire,  iii.  i6624 

HOLM,  Holme  (Holmr),  now  called  Holmen,  by  Bergen, 
Norway,  iii.  322,^  324^  38613  39os 

HOLM,  Holme  (Holmr),  now  Munkholmen,  an  island  one 
English  mile  N.  of  the  city  of  Trondhjem,  iii.  276s  34829 

HOLME  =  Borgundholm,  q.v. 

HOLMGARTH  (HolmgarSr),  now  Novgorod  in  Russia,  i. 
2  2  924  2  3o8  26— ii.  8216  i4820  i5314  46629  467u— iii.  35  6328  762  5 

77-2  27°3o  .  ,.v 

HOLM-THE-GRAY   (Holmr  inn  grai),  an  islet  southernmost 

among  the  Whale-isle  archipelago,  S.W.  of  Swinesound,  off 

the  northernmost  part  of  Goteborgs  och  Bohuslan,  Sweden, 

iii.  36i30 


hol — hou]  Index  II  257 

HOLSETALAND,  Holstein,  i.  255^ 

HOLTAR,  now  Holtan,  the  manor  of  King  Halfdan  the  Boun- 
teous and  the  Meatgrudging  on  Westfold,  i.  70- 15 

HOLY  ISLE  (Eyin  helga),  Iona,  iii.  2  2  216 

HOLY-NESS  (Helganes),  near  Riveroyce,  on  the  east  coast  of 
Jutland,  Denmark,  iii.  463  13  24  7710  7921 

HOLY  RIYER  (Ain  Helga),  now  Helgaan,  a  river  in  Skaney, 
in  south-western  Sweden,  ii.  32o7  12  2S  323^  325.,  326.^ 

HORDALAND,  Hordland  (HorSaland),  now  Sondre  Bergen- 
husamt,  was  bounded  from  N.  by  Sognfolk,  E.  and  S.E.  by 
Haddingdale,  Numdale  and  Thelmark,  S.  by  Rogaland,  i. 
93ir  JII4s  I3I29I339  I3729I4226  156x181!  188^  2o814  24o2r 
244-26  24615  3°3-24  3°4i  3°825  37^— ii.  i23s  21 16  2i216  231,., 
2682S3ii136o2339o54231843i19  464^— iii.  84  228  3447  358^ 

37  iio  458i(5- 

HORNBORUSOUND  (Hornborusund),  now  Hummersund, 
the  strait  which  divides  the  island  of  Hornbora,  now  Hom- 
bergson,  from  the  mainland  of  Ranrealm,  or  the  present 
Bohuslan,  Sweden,    iii.  35313 

HORNSHAW  (Hornsk6gr),  woodland  tract  in  Jutland,  Den- 
mark, iii.  96- 

HORSENESS  (Hrossanes),  the  northmost  headland  on  the 
island  of  Nj6tarey,  now  Nottero,  south  of  Tunsberg,  Norway, 

iii-  4395 
HOUND  HAM  (Hundsver),  a  group  of  small  islands  on  the 
northern  side  of  the  westernmost  part  of  the  peninsula  of 
Oxeno,  called  Borgund,  northern   South-Mere,  Norway,  ii. 

363.5 
HOUNDTHORP  (Hund)»orp),  now  Hundorp,  a  homestead  on 

the  northern  side  of  Low-water  in  northern  Gudbrandsdale, 

the  seat  of  the  'hersir'  Gudbrand  a-Dales,  ii.  2oi6 
HOUSEBY  (Husabser),  now  Hustad,  a  homestead  on  the  neck 

of  the  peninsula  called  Inner-Isle,  now  Inderoen,  within  the 

Isles'-folk  of  Upper-Thrandheim,  i.  i7o20 
HOUSEBY  (Husabasr),  now  Huseby,  in  the  countryside  of 

Skaun,  on  the  eastern  side  of  lower  Orkdale,  one  of  Einar 

Thambarskelfir's  mansions,  ii.  46j5 
HOUSE-STEAD  (HustaSir),  now  Hustad,  on  the  broad  penin- 
sula of  Stim,  just  within  the  northern  boundary  of  Raums- 

dale,  iii.  2843 

vi.  s 


258  Index  II  [how — in-i 

HOWE  (Haugr),  a  king's  manor  in  Verdale  in  Upper-Thrand- 
heim,  ii.  i961 — iii.  i924  2o2S  5712  i932s 

1.  HOWE-SOUND  (Haugasund),  the  northern  part  of  Kormt- 
sound  outside  the  homestead  of  Howes,  Rogaland,  i.  1435 

2.  HOWE-SOUND  (Haugasund),  now  Hogasund,  a  strait  near 
the  western  branch  of  the  Gautelf,  by  the  coast  of  the  parish 
of  Torsby,  in  southern  Bohuslan,  Sweden,  ii.  8i14 

HOWE-THING,  see  Thing. 

HOWES  (Haugar),  a  homestead  in  Rogaland,  on  the  eastern 
side  of  the  sound  that  divides  the  island  of  Kormt  from  the 
mainland  towards  the  northern  inlet  to  it,  the  burial-place  of 
King  Harald  Hairfair,  i.  i434  (Here  a  memorial  column  of 
granite  was  erected  in  1872.) 

HOWES  (Haugar),  a  place  now  called  Mollebakken,  in  Tuns- 
berg  (Storm),  iii.  4709 

HRAFNISTA,  now  Ramso,  an  island  to  the  north-west  of  the 
mouth  of  Folden-fjord,  in  the  parish  of  Os  in  Bjornor  (Storm), 
in  Naumdale,  Norway,  iii.  2  7426 

HUMBER  (Humbra),  in  England,  iii.  1673 

HUNGARY  REALM  (Ungarariki),  iii.  262- 

HVEDN  (Hve^n),  now  Hveen,  an  island  in  the  Sound,  Den- 
mark, iii.  33412  l7 

HVIN  (Hvinir),  now  Kvinesdalen,  a  valley  formed  by  the  river 
Hvin,  in  North- Agdir,  i.  320  133^  35314 

IAMTLAND  (Jamtaland),  now  Jamtland,  a  province  of  N.W. 

Sweden,  i.  H3i6l6224  26  l635sii  2I4r7  3535— ii-.6526  66n  8on 
2763-277  29420  31  39329  41521  25  4i626  438^—111.  626  i416  583 

26326  2642o 
ICEFIRTH  (Isafjor^r),  a  bay  running  into  northern  Sealand, 

Denmark,  i.  2  7o12 

ICELAND  ('Island),  i.  432  521 25  618  74 IJ322  2o8.is  268i4  23  323i2 

15  17  25  334i5  19  25  339i7  34°5  o  354i4 17  22  24— «•  694 11  73n  85io 

9225  9427  J33l7  X3520  24   X365  8  19  X37l  7  8  24Ii4  16  23  28  2427  14 

24525  24613  24919  27416  24  27  2754  28o7  29414  30215  33320  409^ 
45i5— iii.  9719  io226  28  io326  265^  26613  334^  33529  3386 

46l21 

ILAWALL  (Iluvellir),  flats  between  the  bend  of  the  Nidelf  and 
the  sea,  on  the  western  side  of  Nidoyce,  now  the  suburb  Hen 
or  Ihlen,  by  Throndhjem,  iii.  2769 

IN-ISLE  (Inney),  so  the  text,  but  seemingly  by  mistake,  as 


inn — jon]  Index  II  259 

many  MSS.  give  the  reading  '  inni  =  homesteads,'  and  an 

Inney  seems  not  to  be  known,  ii.  40224 
INNER-ISLE  (Eyin-innri,  or  -rSri),  now  Inderoen,  a  peninsula 

in  upper  Thrandheimfirth  within  the  confines  of  Isles'-folk, 

i.  979  i624  i7o21 
IRELAND  ('Irland),  i.  i2827  132,3  1539  24  i55s  I58ao  1S9~i  261.22 

26403  26s19  26621 24  28919— ii.  i3712  16933 17414 1924 18815— hi. 

21.,  I22o4  22I*5  222*7  223l3  239ll  24228  30  29520297l2  13  1S26  29 

IRONSTONE-LAND  (Jarnberaland),  supposed  to  have  been 
part  of  the  present  province  of  Dalarne,  Sweden,  ii.  3929 

ISLAY  (11),  an  island  in  Sodor,  hi.  2  2  224  2  23x 

ISLES'-FOLK  (Eynafylki),  deriving  its  name  from  the  localities 
called  the  Inner-  and  the  Outer-isle,  now  Inder  og  Ytteroen, 
a  petty  kingdom  on  the  northern  side  of  Upper  Thrandheim- 
bay,  conquered  by  Harald  Hairfair  in  his  fourth  battle  in 
Thrandheim,  i.  9710  i6i19  ii.  47,5 

ISLE-LAND  =  Isle-sysla. 

ISLE-LAND  (Eyland),  now  Oland,  an  island  on  the  eastern 
coast  of  southern  Sweden,  ii.  8223  834  ii219 

ISLE-SYSLA  (Eysysla),  the  island  in  the  Bay  of  Riga  now 

called  Osel,  i.  34725  30  ii.  9U  l7  2U 
IVIZA,  now  Ibiza,  an  island  of  the  Mediterranean,  iii.  25426  32 
JADAR  (JaSarr),  the  western  coast  district  of  Rogaland  south 

of  the  Boknfirth  archipelago,  i.  iii22  ii23  ii34  i34n  14  ii. 

2i727  2i813  22034  2249  25527  268n  l7  21  26  283^  354n  24  25  31 

3574  36o3i  38ii  39°s ni-  Io624  29x27  299i7 
JAMES'  LAND,  poetical  'kenning'  for  Spain,  iii.  24928 

ISLE-LAND-SOUND  (Eyjasund),  a  strait  by  the  island  of  Osel, 

i.  34730  cf.  Isle-sysla. 
JERUSALEM,    Jerusalem   Town    (J6rsalir,    J6rsalaborg),    ii. 

38i10— iii.  i7s  7i15  2561721  257a  337i2 
JERUSALEM-LAND,  -WORLD  (J6rsala-land,  -heimr),  Palaes- 

tine,  i.  n9— ii.  2016— iii.   7o28  7i14  16  2i  72i  17  247is  256iu  is 

257-.  25820337i2  37iis  37224  .     ,  .     ,  , 

JOM  (J6m),  probably  the  island  of  Wollin  in  the  mouth  of  the 

Stettiner  Haff  in  Pomerania,  iii.  32,9 

JOMSBURG  (J6msborg),  a  fortress  o"n  Jom,  reared  by  Danish 

kings  from  the  beginning,  i.  27003  2723  360^ — ii.  44912 — iii. 

JONSMEADS  (J6ansvellir),  on  Northness,  which  now  forms  a 


260  Index  II  [jor — kor 

part  of  the  city  of  Bergen,  Norway,  deriving  their  name  from 
a  monastery  dedicated  to  St.  John,  iii.  32  2521 
JORDAN,  the  river,  iii.  7i30  7238  256^  2577  2~8218  293^  337^ 

37225 
JUTLAND  (Jotland),  in  Denmark,  i.  4o31  4725  526  839  H413 

r56i5i?  r73u  2373  257i5— "•  3I7243o  32°2S— ui-  2727  33  3324 
34io  38is  393  9°27  94i4  98ir  I27i4   I282o  262i9  47*16  4728 
47720 
JUTLAND  SEA,  -main  (Jotlandshaf),  now  the  Kattegat,  iii. 

99i3  IOI22 
JUTLAND-SIDE  (J6tlandsiSa),  the  western  coast  of  Jutland, 

ii.  n12 

KALMAR  (Kalmarnir),  a  seaport  in  Kalmar  Ian,  on  Kalmar- 
sound,  which  runs  between  the  island  of  Oland  and  the  main- 
land, S.E.  Sweden,  ii.  33i20  iii.  285^  29 

KEEL  or  Keels  (Rjolr  or  Kilir),  the  mountain  ridge  forming 
the  boundary  between  northern  Norway  and  northern  Sweden, 
i.  2i418  ii.  66126929  7622  2765  81  277,3 17  39330  395^  39644i62r 
46624  111.  627  i416  5724 

KINGS'-ROCK  (Konungahella,  Kings'  Slab),  now  Kungalf,  a 
town  on  the  northern  side  of  the  branch  of  the  Gautelf  that 
flows  on  the  N.W.  side  of  the  island  of  Hising,  Sweden,  i. 
3n25ii.  1385 12i66132671630  iii.  i4921  183332327  27815309n 
3l8i9  32429  325i2  354i4  399iS22  4°Oi54i6l7  4i82S  419.^  42ou 
43826  45524  4565  459ie  46o9  l7 

KING'S  SOUND  (Konungssund),  name  of  the  dyke  which 
King  Olaf  the  Holy  dug  through  Agni's-thwaite  into  the  Baltic, 
and  by  which  he  escaped  out  of  the  Low  or  Malar  lake  in 
Sweden;  locality,  most  probably,  where  the  lake  Skarfven 
passes  by  the  narrow  sound  Almare  Stake,  generally  called 
Staket,  into  the  Malar  lake,  ii.  8U 

KINNLIM-SIDE,  Kinnlimaside  (KinnlimasiSa),  a  coastal 
district  of  Friesland,  ii.  i2411 

KIRIALALAND,  now  Karelen,  the  eastern  part  of  Finland, 
ii.  i2o2(3 

KNOLLS  (H61ar),  a  place  in  '  Ringfirth '  in  France,  ii.  i824 

KNOLLS  (F£61ar),  locality  on  the  south-westernmost  projection 
of  Skaney,  S.W.  Sweden,  ii.  33% 

KORMT-ISLE,  Kormt  (Kormt),  now  Karm  or  Karmoen,  an 
island  off  Rogaland,  on  the  northern  side  of  the  mouth  of  the 


kor — law]  Index  II  26 1 

Boknfirtb,  due  north  of  Stavanger,  i.   i3731  i7210  31305  ii. 
2i614  22i15  22730iii.  4i427 
KORMTSOUND  (Karmtsund),   the  narrow  sound  dividing 
Kormt-isle  from  the  mainland  of  Rogaland,  i.  143.,  ii.  747 

2l6jo   2I9;  22I3o 

KURLAND  (Kiirland),  Courland,  one  of  the  Baltic  provinces 

of  Russia,  ii.  i2027 
KVALDINSEY,  island  in  the  lake  of  Venern,  Sweden,  iii.  2  2  7j 

2364 
KVALDIN'S-ISLE,  see  Kvaldinsey. 
KVILDS  (Kvildir),  a  countryside  on  the  coast  of  Bohuslan, 

Sweden,  iii.  359s 
KVISTSTEAD  (Kviststa'Sir),  now  Kvistad,  a  homestead  on 

the  Inner-Isle,  Thrandheim,  Norway,  ii.  4263.,  43o10  iii.  2i17 
KYMRY  (Land  of  the)  (Kumraland),  Cumberland,  harried  by 

Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  26i24 
LADIR  (Hla^ir),  seat  of  the  famous  'Earls  of  Ladir,'  now 

Lade,  a  short  distance  N.E.  of  the  city  of  Throndhjem,  i. 

98-2o  I37m*  M915  l6l5  l66e  l695  *7ls  2I422  297i  is  3°97 

3i°ii  3183  8  n— 11.  50,3 
LADlR-CLlFFS    (Hla'Shamrar),   a   rocky   rise   between    the 

manor  of  Ladir  and  the  sea,  i.  3435 
LyERADALE  (Laeradalr),  now  Lserdalen,  the  countryside  round 

the  head  of  Lseradale's-firth,  an  offshoot,  in  a  south-easterly 

direction,  from  the  upper  Sognfirth,  i.  26727 
LAKTIARN  (Laktjarnir),  a  Norse  corruption   of  the  name 

Blackernae  of  a  palace  in  Constantinople,  iii.  259^, 
LAND,  a  district  of  Hadaland,  round  the  northern  end  of  Rand- 
water,  Norway,  i.  795 
LANGTON  (Langatun),  an  unverified  place  in  England,  iii. 

3  7  "26  29 

LAUPANDANESS  (Hlaupandanes),  not  Lopness  in  Sandey, 
but  the  peninsula  on  south-eastern  Mainland,  Orkney,  now 
called  Deerness  (Anderson,  '  Orkneyinga  saga,'  p.  5,  n.  2), 
ii.  171 ._,., 

LAW-BURG  (Logberg),  the  rock  at  Thingvellir  from  which 
proclamations  and  enunciations  to  the  Althing,  the  old  Folk- 
mote  of  Iceland,  relating  to  matters  of  public  concern,  legis- 
lative, judiciary  and  administrative,  were  given  out,  ii.  24215 10 

2454 


262  Index  II  [lee — lis 

LEESEY  (Hlesey),  now  Lassso,  an  island  in  the  strait  of  Katte- 
gat, belonging  to  Denmark,  ii.   i572G  iii -   ioo1   ioi25   i3i17 

334i3  21 
LEIKBERG,  a  locality  apparently  in  Bohusliin,  Sweden,  iii. 

3743  17 
LESIAR  (Lesjar),  now  Lesje  or  Leso,  a  countryside  in  northern 

Gudbrandsdale,  by  the  Low-water  (Logr),  now  Logen,  which 

flows  N.W.  into  Raumsdale,  ii.  i9918  19  26  202x  2041S  36331 

36728  (where  Nesiar  is  a  misprint). 
LESISLE,  see  Leesey. 
LEWIS  (Ljo^hits),  in  Sodor,  iii.  22i28 
LIDANDISNESS  (LfSandisnes),  the  most  southern  point  of 

North-Agdir  in  Norway,  i.   24i7.s  3o813.u  3780  ii.  64l7  1237 

i362  2i25  2133.3  iii.  3925  4715 

LIDSTEAD  (Li§ssta^ir),   now  Listad,   a  homestead  in  the 

neighbourhood  of  Gudbrand  a  Dales'  seat,  Houndthorp,  ii. 

20413 

LIMAFIRTH,  Limbfirth,  see  Limfirth. 

LIMFIRTH  (Limafjor^r),  Limfjord,  a  large  bay  in  the  north 

of  Jutland,   Denmark,   i.   4^  l8  4725  32   237^   238^   239^ 

257s  19   274io — ii-   3*68  12  3i732   3i82  3484  35i8— iii.    39^ 

I27ir  is 
LIMGARTHSIDE   (Limagar3ssi;Sa),    now   Lungaards-siden, 

the  eastern  littoral  of  Agdir,  Norway,  iii.  35422 

LINESTEAD  (Linusta^ir),  now,  according  to  some,  Linstad 

in  the  parish  of  Stange,  in   Heathmark  (Aall,  Munch,  F. 

J6nsson),  according  to  others,  Linnstad,  in  the  parish  of 

Ramnes,  in  Westfold  (Storm),  iii.  362^ 

LINGS  (Lyngar),  possibly  one  of  two  homesteads  distinguished 

now  as  '  Eystri '  and  '  Vestri  Lyngar '  in  the  commune  of 

LeiSvallarhreppr,  West-Skaptafells-sysla,  in  Eastern  Iceland, 

iii.  3723  where,  after  Thorkel,  '  of  Lings '  has  fallen  out. 

LIOXA  (Ljoxa),  now,  according  to  Munch  and  Unger,  Lexdalen 

in  Stiordale-folk,  according  to  G.  Storm,  Lexviken  on  the 

western  side  of  Thrandheim-firth  opposite  the  peninsula  of 

Frosta,  i.  i7°ir  3x9s 
LISBON  (Lizibdn),  iii.  251^  21 
LISTI,  now  Lister,  a  district  in  West-Agdir,  north  of  Hvin,  ii. 

93is  I5°5  (where  it  stands  as  pars  pro  toto  for  Norway)  35 12(> 

iii-  355i3  45813 


lit — lyg]  Index  II  263 

LITHE  (HlrS),  now  Lien,  a  homestead  of  the  parish  of  Brats- 
berg  in  the  district  of  Strind,  Thrandheim  (Storm),  iii.  302.,,; 

LOAR  (L6ar),  now  Lorn,  a  countryside  on  either  side  of  the 
river  Otta  in  Gudbrandsdale,  Norway,  ii.  i9930  2oou  20 13  u 

2022  5  20418 

LOFUND,  supposed  by  some  to  correspond  to  the  island  now 
called  Lofo,  Farentuna  harad,  in  the  Malaren  Lake,  by  others 
taken  to  represent  '  Laghunda  hundari '  in  Fjadrundaland,  in 
the  present  Uppland,  Sweden,  i.  529  24 

LOFA-FIRTH  (LdfufjorSr),  now  Laholmsbugten  in  the  south 
of  Hallands  Ian,  W.  Sweden,  iii.  i3214 

LOIRE  (Leira),  in  France,  ii.  2i9 

LONDON  (Lundunir,  Lundunaborg),  i.  i4ox  ii.  13^  2624  95  28 
37620  iii.  i26n  i5720 

LONDON  BRIDGE  (Lundiina  bryggjur),  description  of,  ii. 
I3i9-28 — destruction  of,  by  Olaf  Haraldson  (1009),   i46-i52 

10-13  28-30       U1-    I2"l4 

LONGISLE  (Langey),  now  Lango,  an  island  in  Halogaland, 

west  of  Hinn-isle,  ii.  237^  25920  26629 
LONGWICK(Lengjuvik),  now  Lenviken,  running  from  Malang- 

firth  into  the  N.E.  side  of  the  island  of  Senia,  in  northmost 

Halogaland,  ii.  26612  2881S 
LORADALE  (Lorodalr),  now  Lordalen,  a  valley  opening  from 

the  south  into  upper  Lesiar  in  Northern  Gudbrandsdale,  ii. 

19927 

LOW  (Logrinn),  now  the  lake  Malaren  in  Sweden,  i.  i63422 

4°o  "•  7r  2s  29  8i  9^  i6230  i63l5  3875 
LOW  (Logr),  now  Laagen  (var.  Logen,  Lougen),  a  river  having 

its  sources  on  Drofrafell  in  northern    Gudbrandsdale  and 

flowing  southward  through  the  greater  length  of  that  valley, 

emptying  itself  into  the  lake  of  Miors,  ii.  20 19 
LOWSBROAD  (LusbreiS),  now  the  island  of  Livo,  or  Livo- 

bredningen  in  Limfirth,  Denmark,  iii.  i2813 
LUND  (Lundar,  i.e.  the  Groves),  now  Lunde,  a  manor  on  the 

eastern  side  of  the  Gaul  river  in  lower  Gauldale,  i.  292^ ,, 
LUND  (Lundr,  i.e.   the  Grove),  now   Lund,  in  Skaney,  the 

southern  university  town  of  Sweden,  ii.  33229  iii.  442  4815 

28521 

LYGRA,  now  Lyren,  or  Lygren,  an  island  on  the  coast  of 

North  Hordland,  Norway,  ii.  271,,  2733  u 


264  Index  II  [lyr — mer 

LYRSHAW-HEATH  (HlyrskogsheiSr),  in  the  locality  about 
the  present  Liirschau,  north  of  Sleswick,  iii.  34„0 

MADDERMEADS,  MADDERWALLS  (MoSruvellir),  a 
manor  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  main  river  that  runs  into 
the  head  of  Eyjafirth  in  northern  Iceland,  i.  33420  "•  13602  243,3 

MANHOME  (mannheimar),  Sweden  proper,  as  Snorri  will 
have  it,  i.  2i615 

MAN  (Mon),  the  Isle  of  Man,  harried  by  Harald  Hairfair,  i. 
ii527-ii610 — by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  26i21 — by  Magnus  Bare- 
foot, iii.  2  2  22s  2  2510 

MAN  (Mon),  now  Moen,  a  Danish  island  off  the  southern  end 
of  the  island  of  Seeland,  iii.  354,3 

MARS-ISLE  (Marsey),  now  Morso,  a  large  island  in  the 
Limfirth  in  North  Jutland,  i.  257192330 

MARKLANDS,  MARKS  (Markir),  the  marches  between 
Sweden  and  Norway  from  the  Vener  lake  north  to  Eidshaw, 
ii.  7621  ii213  i4425  39o30  (Woodlands),  iii.  22620  456,3  474^ 
477s  48°i3  4862S 

MASWICK  (Masarvik),  now  Mosviken,  a  bight  on  the  western 
side  of  Thrandheim-firth  a  short  distance  down  below  Skarn- 
sound,  and  opposite  the  northern  part  of  Outer-isle,  ii.  4913 

MEADS  (Vellir),  see  Jonsmeads. 

MERE  (Mserin),  now  Maeren,  a  homestead  with  a  heathen 
temple  within  Sparbiders'-folk,  '  a  great  chief  stead  and  big 
houses,'  Upper  Thrandheim,  i.  i7on  29  317^  3i81030  319,7 

»•  i94is  J95r  r972i5 

MERE  (Maerin),  a  homestead  in  Wall-dale  on  Todarfirth,  q.  v. 
"•  36325  where  the  text  should  read :  '  Now  there  dwelt  at 
Mere  a  goodman  hight  Brusi.' 

MERE  (Maerr),  now  More,  a  maritime  folkland  of  Norway 
stretching  from  Naumdale,  in  the  north,  to  Firthfolk  in  the 
south,  but  divided  into  North  and  South  Mere  by  the  inter- 
vening folkland  of  Raumsdale.  Besides  signifying  the  whole 
folkland  the  name  (Mere)  may,  according  to  circumstances, 
also  mean  North  Mere  or  South  Mere.  A  few  cases  admit  of 
doubt  as  to  which  is  meant.  All  references  to  the  folkland 
whole  and  divided  are  gathered  below : 

1.  The  whole  folkland  :  i.  io312  i22n  i256  i264  2i325  247^  274x 

37726— "•  7  2 19  !99i5— iii-  4°221  44228  45722 

2.  NORTH-MERE  (NorS-maerr) :  i.  9930  ioo04  iois  131^  1364 


mic — muc]  Index  II  265 

170^  I  7  I -21  I7516  2O310  20522  2I3.21  21433  2l622  24°2S  247-_>9(?)> 

24803  2741327  29319— ii.  242n  2792S  30224  37219— iii.  H225 

295ir  (?)>  3481C,  349i2  35^4 
3.  SOUTH-MERE  (Sunnmrerr),  i.  ioi(,  io3525  1173  2o65  24o28 

24323  29  2442  27728  3o82i— »•  3°226  37219  42617  46321— iii. 
2io4  22539  29517  (?),  442 15 

MICKLE-DALE  (Dalr  mikli),  now  Store  Dal,  a  homestead 
within  the  district  of  Aumord,  the  present  Borge,  in  south- 
easternmost  Norway,  iii.  277^  27800 

MICKLEGARTH  (MikligarSr),  Constantinople,  iii.  59181927 
623i  7°26  72i3i67327  75i4ir  76914  247^04  256211  2598181fl 
26o12  2623  37205  42817  42920  4310  474i3 

[MICKLE-ISLE]  (Eyin  mikla  er  liggr  i  Mjors,  'a  great  island 
that  lies  amidst  the  lake  of  Miors  '),  now  called  Helgo,  i.  7825 

MIDDLEDALE  (MeSaldalr),  a  homestead  in  Orkdale  in 
Thrandheim,  i.  209,0  ii.  46: 

MIDDLEHOUSE  (MVoalhus),  now  Melhus,  a  homestead  on 
the  eastern  side  of  Gaulriver  in  lower  Gauldale,  in  Thrand- 
heim, i.  i67n  i7olfi  2924  2935  3i96 

MIDGARTH  (Mi^garSr),  the  mid-earth  strong  work  erected 
by  the  gods  against  assaults  from  the  giants;  hence  central 
earthly  abode,  earth  =  the  world,  iii.  992C 

MINORCA  (Manork),  the  most  north-easterly  of  the  Balearic 
Islands,  iii.  2553  7 

MIORS  (Mjors),  now  Mjosen,  the  next  largest  lake  of  Norway, 
reaching  from  Gudbrandsdale  to  Raumrick,  i.  7826  ii.  6410 
(called  the  Water,  io612  io77  12  27  32  io87  and  its  southern- 
most end  Watersend,  io714) 

MIRKFIRTH  (Myrkva-fjoriSr,  Fogfirth),  now  Morko-fjard  in 
Sodermanland,  Sweden,  i.  5916 

MONKBRIDGE  (Munkabryggja),  in  Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  322,, 

MOST,  Most-isle  (Mostr),  now  Mostero,  on  the  western  side  of 
the  sound  called  Bommelen  (the  main  inlet  from  the  south- 
west to  Hardangerfirth),  South- Hordland,  Norway,  i.  1383  14 

29Iioiii-  393i3 
MOUTH  (Mynni),  now  Minne,  a  place  on  the  western  side  of 

the  river  Varma,  where  it  issues  from  the  southern  end  of 

the  Miors  lake  in  Raumrealm,  Norway,  iii.  34900-350,., 

MUCH-HERNES  (Hemes  mikla),  now  Store  Hemes,  an  estate 

on  the  peninsula  of  Frosta  in  Thrandheim,  Norway,  iii.  334,. 


266  Index  II  [mul — nid 

MULI-THING  (Miila-fing),  in  this  form  an  unverified  locality 
in  Sweden  (but  '  Miila '  seems  merely  a  corruption  for  'Mora/ 
a  locality  on  the  highway  ab.  12  km.  S.E.  of  the  present 
Upsala,  where,  in  ancient  times,  Swedish  kings  used  to  be 
elected  (and  deposed  ?)  by  the  people  in  a  public  assembly, 
Thing),  ii.  i2i29 

NAUMDALE,  Naumdale-folk  (Naumudalr,  Naumdsela-fylki), 
a  maritime  folkland  of  northern  Norway,  extending  from 
Northmere  to  Halogaland,  now  Namdalen,  i.  9719  9812  i634 

2457  37733  »•  l89i9  276ir 
NAUSTDALE  (Naustdalr),  now  Naustdal,  in  the  parish  of  Eid, 
in  Nordfjord,  in  the  northern  parts  of  Firthfolk,  Norway,  i. 

io3io 
NECK  (Hals),  now  Hals,  a  town  on  the  southern  side  of  the 

mouth  of  the  Limfirth  in  Jutland,  i.  237^  238.^3  23920 
NERICK  (Nseriki),  now  Narike,  a  province  of  Sweden,  i.  585 

6lio  659  28  "•  36?i9 

NESIAR,  the  peninsular  formations  between  the  bay  of  Tuns- 
berg  and  Grenmar,  or  mod.  Langesundsfjord,  in  southern 
Norway,  ii.  5519  572  7922  (367^  misprint  for  Lesiar,  q.v.) 

NESS  (Nes),  now  Sonstenes,  a  manor  in  the  countryside  of 
Loar  in  Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  2oo5 

NESS  (Nes),  now  Bynsesset,  a  broad  but  small  peninsula  jutting 
out  into  Thrandheimfirth  between  Orkdalefirth  in  the  west 
and  the  bay  of  Nidoyce  in  the  east,  ii.  4818  7223 

NESS,  see  Caithness  and  Streamisle-ness. 

NEWMOUTH  (Nyjam6^a),  a  sea-port  in  England,  uncertain 
which;  Newhaven  in  Sussex?  ii.  i72r  34 

NID  (Ni^),  the  main  river  of  Stiordalefolk,  running  to  the 
north-west  and  through  Strind  emptying  itself  into  Thrand- 
heim  bay,  i.  3i85  32223  ii.  5o2G  29  5325  3i3l0  352,3  iii.  io9ls 

I2926  l63i3  2o6is  34826 
NIDAROS,  see  Nidoyce. 

NID-BANK  (Ni^arbakki),  the  portion  of  the  bank  of  the  river 
Nid  whereon  Olaf  Tryggvison  founded  the  town  of  Nidoyce, 
i.  321,3,  see  Nidness. 

NID-HOLM  (Ni'Sarhdlmr),  now  Munkholmen,  an  islet  out- 
side the  city  of  Drontheim,  i.  297^  33512  ii.  284^ 

NIDNESS  (Ni^arnes),  a  homestead  on  a  ness  of  the  same 
name  by  the  mouth  of  the  river  Nid,  where  Olaf  Tryggvison 


nid — nor]  Index  II  267 

afterwards  founded  the  town  of  Nidoyce,  the  present  Trond- 
hjem,  i.  68.u  ii.  5021 
NIDOYCE  (NrSaross) 

1.  The  mouth  of  the  river  Nid,  i.  3i620  32i22 

2.  The  name  of  the  town  founded,  on  the  western  side  of 
the  river  on  a  peninsula  formed  by  a  sharp  bend  of  it  on  one 
side  and  the  sea  on  the  other,  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  996. 
In  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  the  old  name  was  re- 
placed by  the  modern  name  of  Trondhjem,  i.  32100.09  32610 
32730  334s  n  35°3i  354n  355-21  357i  29— i5-  483i  5°n>  53s  21  642s 
67n  1-  l89iu  i9°i7  x922i  x98i2  23427  258s  2752o  294io  3°22o 
3482a  3753  44810 — iii-  I724  3522  8723  935  I294  l63io  ^U  i84l 
18  i8810  i92i9  23  ^Sio  i96s  202n  2°5i2  22525  263is  275e  2775 

283n  28  3°227  3344  38o2  48l  1G  48326  „        , 

NIORDLOW  (NjarSarlog),  now  Tysneso,  off  South-Hordland, 

1  <?  £  T 

NIORD'S-ISLE  (Niamey),  now  Nsero,  off  the  coast  of  Naum- 

dale  in  the  northern  part  of  the  governorship  of  Trondhjem, 

i.  524 
NIORVI'S  SOUND,  read  NORVISOUND  (Niorvasund,  Nor- 

vasund,  better  rendered  Narrow-sound),  the  Strait  of  Gibraltar, 

i.  ii9  ii.  20J-  iii.  237n  ie  2529  1537i25 
NITIA  (Nitja),  now  Nitelven,  an  affluent  of  the  Raumelf,  11. 

20909 
NIZ,  NIZI  (Niz),  the  river  Nissan  joining  the  sea  by  Halmstad 

in  Hallands  Ian,  S.W.  Sweden,  iii.  i3315  135.3  I43i5  22  x5425 
NOATOWN  (Nois,  i.  i627  read  Noa-,  Noatun,  which  means 

really  Ships'-Town,  Shipton),  Niord's  Swedish  abode,  2  28 
NORFISOUND,  see  Niorvi's  sound. 
NORMANDY  (NorSmandi),  i.  n82532— ii.  2i20  22e  8  28x— iii. 

x55i7  x56s  l8oi4 
NORTHDALE  (NorSdalr),  a  district  on  the  western  side  of 

Vener  Lake,  northern  Dalsland,  Sweden,  iii.  2265,, 
NORTH-ISLES  (NorSreyjar),  the  group  of  six  islands  lying 
E.N.E.  of  Eastisle,  the  northernmost  part  of  the  Faroe  archi- 
pelago, ii.  30535  3o62s  30712 
NORTHERN    ISLES   (NorSreyjar),  the  northern  or   Lewes 

group  of  the  Hebrides,  iii.  2239 
NORTHLANDS,  NORTH  COUNTRIES  (NorSrlond),  Scan- 
dinavia and  Denmark  (England,  in  one  instance,  apparently 


268  Index  II  [nor 

included),  i.  39  i74  26— ii.  264  96l7  9715  i6o18  25i32  253^— 

iii-  37s  72is  852o  I02io  l6l2o 
NORTH-MERE,  see  Mere. 

NORTHNESS  (Nor'Snes),  now  Nordnses,  on  which  is  built  a 

large  part  of  the  town  of  Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  2635  32  24  l7 

3242s  478ie 
NORTHUMBERLAND  (NorSimbraland),  'accounted  the  fifth 

part  of  England,'  i.  i5218  24  27  i53l7  i5415  25  26il7  ii.  283  293 

iii-  I732S 
NORWAY  (Noregr),  Norge,  i.  431  52  28  64  5o15  737  868  9328 

94l4  954   II3l2  2124  2S   XI45   Il87   II9l    I2222  31I242   I2623   J3831 

I4°25  ^is  J4333  J49n  16  :537  ^5526  J59i4  l6oi9  l6327  l6425 

X7320  I74l0  12  15  l8°28  l8824  J979  20I14  2°227  2l8122283  23 
2323  235l2  16  25  31   23614  16  25    237l0    2389  13  17   24°19  25   243l9  21 

2452e  24629  249l7  25310 13  27  257,5  2587  2594  267^  27i19  272*3 

26  29  32  2732  285l2  18  2875  22   2885    28925    29°14    29*7  11  2S  299ll) 

3°°3i  3OI5  26  3°22  7  20  3o629  3IX2o  323e  3248  33325  3345  34°ia 
34ii8  27  28  3422  3453  31  35°n  35%  36425  37*23  37618  37723 

37815  27— "■  2°21  2I20  223  17  IS  234  2424  2528  3°4  6  10  3222  33l2 
3523  4I9  4213  25  4331  444  23  5424  5528  6523  673  7*14  75io  7615 
83l  12  16  842  9X15  9427  28  32  95s  9620  25  97i5  25  31  985  9  99l2  13 
17  30  Io824  IO930  II7l2  "92  S  21  I2I16  I2225  I3531  I4730  *529 
J549   I55l9   l66ll  25    l6730    l682S    l695  24   T7321    X7425    J75l  21  27 

J76io  x78i7  l8lis  l889  ^si  J99u  24333  24524  24617  250^  20 

25  28  25J9  10  14   2527  10  2125   2535  9  11  33  2552o   25619  21  2693  27328 

2759  27622  294i2  3°93i  3H13  so  3!49  3J723  32427  325i9  329io 

33°5  21  30  3344  5  335ll  18  22  346g  6  3486  31  349ll  26  35°2  4  35*2 

352io  is  28  353i2  22  35832  3592  27  3676  20  3682o  22  369i6  37°22 
372i2  3765  04  3772  4  20  3799  38o9  12  u  27  38ln  24  386e  30  387i 

20    389l  6  22    23   27    39°18    39  J5    15    393l  5    39619  23   4*72  14   449l5 

17  is  45°i  45J7  45223  4548  46o18  46iu  27  32  4628  23  4634  4672 

■20 iii-  4l5  32  58  11  929   I06   IX17  30   I230   I49   I5l6  26   X^24  272  2°29 

3°24  3X29  336  16  4526  5r23  527   7  221    7920  26  27    8°32    842  5  12  85l9 

87i8  88n  is  9xi6  92io  27  30  932  949  ii  96i5  97io  22  io3ii  io52i 

I0629   II94  19  25  29   I2923   I3I29  x4*6  *429    J43l0    J4628    I4827  28 

i499  1603  20  i628  i6520  1835  22  i874 17  1914  1923  10  ig8lti 

33  2028  lg  2057  2068  2o8g  22Il7  22427  22519  24  22612  22723 
22816     233^     23824    27     23924     24233     2433     2478   23    24826     26220 

24  263n  2642s  7  2683  27322  27433  284n  14  285e  z892o  29J5 
2925  29424  29524  29615  297i9  3°9i2  3ioi5  3J3i2  32425  333so 


nun — olf]  Index  II  269 

336is  3373  340-3  5 15  35°ir  35 *■::,  20  27  2s  31  3532s  31  36ois  365^ 
366.,.  3683 13  21  372oS  37630  3773  379-22  24  38o4  9  10  386)  399i5 
402u  409^  42i.25  425^  42922  436s  438s  9  46224  465.4  13  10  M  22 
4663l)  46931  47 1,. 2  03  473i  s  12  19  24  4743  4794 

NUNSEAT  (Nunnusetr),  St.  Mary's  convent  for  Cistercian 
nuns,  Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  32  2.28 

NUNS'-SEAT  (Nunnusetr),  St.  Mary's  convent  for  Benedictine 
nuns,  Oslo,  Norway,  iii.  424^ 

NYRFI,  the  island  of  Norvo  in  South-Mere,  Norway,  ii.  3634 

OAK-ISLES  (Eikreyjar),  a  group  of  islands  off  the  western 
branch  of  the  Gautelf,  now  called  Ockero,  ii.  81.,  157^  ,,, 

ODDSOUND  (Oddasund),  a  strait  between  the  southern  point 
of  the  peninsula  of  Thyholm  in  the  Limfjord  and  the  main- 
land, Denmark,  i.  41, 

ODIN'S-ISLE  ('O^insey,  al.  'O^insve  =  Odin's  holy  place),  now 
Odense,  the  chief  town  of  the  island  of  Fion,  q.v.,  formerly 
apparently  an  island,  i.  153331 

OFRUSTEAD,  OPRUSTEAD  (OfrustaSir,  OprustaSir),  ac- 
cording to  Aall,  Munch  and  Unger  the  present  Offig-  or 
Offrig-stad,  in  the  parish  of  Oier  in  the  Gudbrandsdale,  but 
by  Storm  identified  as  Obrestad  in  Jadar,  Rogaland,  i.  2  23s 

2243  22.5is  19  2267  353is 

OGLO  (Oglo),  now  Skatval  parish  in  lower  Stiordale  in  Thrand- 
heim,  i.  2055  17  2o617 

OGVALDSNESS  (Ogvaldsnes),  one  of  K.  Har.  Hairfair's 
manors,  situate  on  the  north-eastern  side  of  the  large  island 
of  Kormt,  the  south  end  of  which  is  watered  by  the  mouth  of 
Boknfirth,  i.  i3731  i7221  3i324  3145  29  (origin  of  the  name, 

3*55-l8)      U-      2l613     15      2I97     22I32      2223      22424      22730      23°5 

231 ,. 
OIKEL-BANK  (Ekkjals-bakki),  in  Sutherlandshire  in  Scotland, 

i.  1 1622  2s 
OLAF'S"  BOOTHS  ('Olafs  bu«ir),  ii.  3932- 
OLAF'S  CAVE  ('Olafs  hellir),  a  grotto  down  below  the  Skerf- 

scree,  in  Walldale,  Norway,  ii.  366., 
OLAF'S-LITHE,  ii.  45720 
OLFUS  (Olfus),  a  countryside  on  the  western  side  of  the  lower 

Whitewater  (Hvita),  the  main  river  of  Arness^sla  in  Southern 

Iceland,  i.  269.,., 


270  Index  II  [olv — out 

OLVIRSHOWE  (Olvishaugr),  now   Alstahougen  or  Alstad- 

haugen  in  Skaunfolk,  Thrandheim,  i.  i7o18 
OMD  (6md),  the  eastern  part  of  the  island  Hin,  now  called 

Hindd  in  Halogaland,  Norway,  i.  5o31  33i12  ii-  21400 
ONEBY  (Einbui),  a  homestead  in  the  countryside  of  Lesjar  in 

the  northernmost  part  of  Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  3674 
OPRUSTEAD  (OprustaSir),  see  Ofrustead. 
ORDOST  (OrSost),  now  Orust,  a  large  island  in  the  southern 

part  of  Goteborgs  och  Bohus  Ian  in  Sweden,  ii.  8in 
ORKDALE,  Orkdalefolk  (Orkadalr,  Orkdcelafylki),  now  Orke- 

dalen,  the  westernmost  of  the  folklands  or  petty  kingdoms 

on  the  south  side  of  Thrandheim-firth,   i.  95IS  22  28  293^ 

3l8is  353n  ^  222s  4610  22  27  4724  4328  53i7 10  72i9  2792  9  hi. 

"318  48327 
ORKDALE-FOLK,  see  Orkdale. 

ORKNEY, -S  (Orkneyjar),  i.  ii327  n614  i2216  18  1237  17  125^ 
i2621  i2752231  i3220  152.  i5319  i5430  i553  J59i7  24i2s  243is 
29°2i — ii-  69io  I37u  is  l684  7  u  n  l697 17  22  i7°a  i7i2  6  31 

X73lS   21    25     I74412     ^Sll     X7619     1783429   T7933    l8°4    25    l8l27 
l848  10    l85l5  19  25    l8631    l872l    28   31  l8813  14   J99l2  24Ii2— m- 

XI92o  l65so   l662   l8230  22Iie  2393  2423o   24816 18  21  337ie 

37  lv?  21 
OSLO  (Osl6),  a  'cheaping-stead,'  founded  by  K.  Har.  Hardredy, 

the  site  of  which  is  now  occupied  by  the  eastern  portion  of 

Christiania,  the  present  capital  of  Norway,  iii.  i2  74  i4210  i4314 

14617  i8333  29732  3ios  3J3r  352io  23  353g  36727  4i82s  4224 

4233  4743o 
OSLOFIRTH    (Osl6arfj6rSr),  the  northernmost  part  of  the 

Christianiafjord,  Norway,  ii.  3533 

OSTERFIRTH('Ostrarfj6r3r),  now  Osterfjord,  a  bay  in  North- 
Hordland,  ii.  232^ 

OTTA  ('Otta),  now  Ottaelv,  an  affluent,  from  west,  of  the  Low 
(Logr),  now  Laagen,  the  main  river  of  Gudbrandsdale, 
Norway,  ii.  19929 

OUSE  ('Usa),  river  of  eastern  Yorkshire,  England,  iii.  i678 

OUTSTONE  ('Utsteinn),  one  of  K.  Har.  Hairfair's  manors, 
situate  on  the  western,  or  Boknfirth,  end  of  an  island  of  the 
same  name,  now  called  Utsteno,  or  sometimes  Klostero,  off 
Rogaland ;  the  modern  name  of  the  homestead  is  Utsten  or 
Utstens  Kloster  (from  having  in  Catholic  times  been  a  con- 


pan — rau]  Index  II  271 

vent  of  Augustinian  regulars) ;  the  manor:  i.  ii228  i3730;  the 

island:  ii.  358^  361^ 
PANNONIA,  western  Hungary,  iii.  262s 
PEITA,  Peita-land,  Peita  country  (Peita,  Peituland),  Poitou  in 

France,  ii.  200g  21.,  13 
PENTLANDFIRTH  (PetlandsfjorSr),  between  Caithness  and 

Orkney,  i.  290^  ii.  37712 
PORTYRIA,  in  Limgarthside  on  Eastern  Agdir,  now  Portor,  a 

small  sea-port  in  Nedenes  Fogderi,  Norway,  iii.  354.,.,  355., 
PEITA-LAND,  see  Peita. 
PEZINA  (Fields  of),  in  Wallachia,  iii.  429^ 
PULWYKE  (Pilavik),  probably  quite  a  different  place  from 

Pulwyke  on  Windermere,  although  K.  Eystein  '  harried  far 

and  wide  about  England '  after  burning  Whitby.  Pulwyke  is 

a  mere  guess,  iii.  37619  2i 
QUISTSTEAD,  see  Kviststead. 
R^ENING   (Rasningr),    a   royal    manor,   probably   the   place 

Raeninge,  which  in  mediaeval  records  is  mentioned  on  the 

island  now  called  Toster-on  in  the  Melaren  Lake,  in  Soder- 

manland  (Hildebrand),  i.  6^.25  64s 
RAND,  Randwater  (Rond),  now  Randsfjorden,  a  lake  in  Ha- 

daland,  i.  8614  iii.  382n 
RANDBERG   (Randaberg),    a   manor    on    the  peninsula  in 

which  the  district  of  Jadar  terminates  towards  north,  situated 

to  the  N.W.  of  Stavanger,  iii.  474n 
RAND-OYCE  (Randar6ss),  now  Randers,  on  the  east  coast  of 

Jutland,  Denmark,  iii.  4729 
RAN-REALM  (Ranriki),  a  folkland  on  the  eastern  side  of  the 

Wick,  the  northern  boundary  of  which  was  Swinesound,  the 

southern,  at  least  at  one  time,  the  Gautelf,  now  the  Swedish 

province  called  Goteborgs  och  Bohuslan,  i.  109!  131^  151^ 

(where  Van-realm  is  a  misprint),   37707 — ii-    769 — &•    2°25 

RASMEAD  (Rasvollr),  now  Rosvold,  a  homestead  of  Verdale 

(Storm),  iii.  io410 
RAST-KALF  (Rastar-kalfr),  a  locality  on  the  east  side  of  the 

island  of  Fraedi,  i.  1775  9 
RAUMELF,  Raumriver'(Raumelfr),  now  Glommen,  the  largest 

river  of  Norway,  running  from  north  to  south  into  the  eastern 

side  of  the  Christianiafirth,  i.  7o32  9312  ii.  6410  78.^ 


272  Index  II  [rau — rin 

RAUMDALE,  see  Raumsdale. 

RAUMREALM  (Raumariki),  now  Romerike,  Norway,  i.  6713 

681S  7222  77-21  24    785  10  15  16  8627    936    I0525    Io66    Io824    *  3  *  17 

249i8  273is  3782i— »•  4125  54n  i°222  io34  is  21  32  io533  Io65 
i°7i8  io926  2io13— 111.  i46n  i5323  353!  2  425h 

RAUMRICK,  see  Raumrealm. 

RAUMSDALE,  Raumdale  (Raumsdalr),  now  Romsdalen, 
Norway,  between  North-Mere  and  South-Mere,  i.  9933  ioo24 

I03l2    I3I31   l6427  2°65  2I325    24°28    245l0    274l  3o822  37726— 

ii-  x99i6  3°225— iu-  2I°4  44226  4479  is 
RAVENNESS  (Hrafnsnes),  now  Ramnass,  a  homestead  in  Re, 

Westfold,  Norway,  iii.  45137  485ir 

RAVEN'S-ERE  (Hrafnseyrar),  now  Ravenseer  on  Holderness, 

England,  iii.  i8229 

1.  RE  (R£),  now  the  island  of  Rugen,  off  the  coast  of  West 
Pomerania,  iii.  3812  23 

2.  RE  (Re),  now  the  parish  of  Ramnass,  N.W.  of  Tunsberg, 
Norway,  iii.  45 1^  26  48412  13 

REEK-KNOLLS  (Reykjahdlar),  a  homestead  on  the  south- 
eastern peninsula  called  Reykjanes  (Reekness),  which  be- 
tween )}orska-firth  in  the  west  and  Beru-firth  in  the  east, 
shoots  south  into  Broadfirth,  western  Iceland,  iii.  35629 

REEKNESS  (Reykjanes),  the  south-westernmost  promontory 
of  Iceland,  i.  2  69u.12 

REINFIELD  (Reinsletta),  a  locality  in  the  parish  of  Rissen, 
within  the  countryside  of  Stadsbygden,  on  the  northern  side 
of  outer  Thrandheim-firth,  i.  i36l7.18 

REINI,  Reynir,  better  Rein  (Rein),  now  Reinskloster,  in  the 
countryside  of  Rissen  on  the  northern  side  of  outer  Thrand- 
heim-firth, iii.  i8410  3484 

REITH-GOTHLAND  (RerSgotaland),  this  name,  which  gener- 
ally signifies  Jutland  in  Denmark,  must  here  refer  to  some 
other  country,  the  island  of  Gotland?  i.  ^2X  9 

REYNIR,  see  Reini. 

REYR,  now  Ror,  a  homestead  in  the  countryside  of  Ringsacre, 
Heathmark,  Norway,  iii.  39910  4°°^  4o76  4°8io  4*527  43823 

RIMUL,  now  Romol,  a  manor  on  the  river  Gaul  in  lower 
Gauldale,  i.  292^  294s 

RINAN'S-ISLE  (Rinansey),  now  North-Ronaldsay,  in  the 
Orkneys,  i.  i2524  ii.  i6816 


rin — rou]  Index  II  273 

RINGACRE  (Hringisakr),  now  Ringsaker,  a  manor  and  locality 
on  the  eastern  side  of  the  western  arm  of  the  lake  Miors  that 
runs  north  toward  Gudbrandsdale  by  the  west  of  Heathmark, 
ii.  io318  105™  io8s.9 

RINGFIRTH  (HringsfjorSr),  in  France,  ii.  i82429 

RINGMAR-HEATH  (HringmaraheiBr),  now"  Ringmere,  in 
East-Wreatham,  Norfolk,  ii.  i651421 

RINGNESS  (Hringunes),  now  Ringnaes,  in  the  countryside  of 
Skaun,  now  the  parish  of  Stange,  in  Heathmark,  Norway,  ii. 

54io  64s  io73  24814— hi.  I2215 
RINGREALM  (Hnngariki),  now  Ringerike,  Norway,  i.  81^  8626 
872  Q^is  935  IJ4i9  1223  i3i21  3io31  3ii6  13— ii.  ioq28  209^ 

«49n— *"■  x54i2  48330 
RINGRICK,  see  Ringrealm. 
RINGSTEAD  (HringstaSir),  now  Ringsted,  a  township  in  the 

island  of  Seeland,  Denmark,  iii.  4331 

1.  RIVEROYCE  ('Ar6ss),  the  mouth  of  the  river  Fyri,  on  the 
lake  Malaren,  ii.  i622S  387,; 

2.  RIVEROYCE  ('Aross),  now  Aarhus,  a  city  on  the  eastern 
coast  of  Jutland,  Denmark,  iii.  3895  39n  5o30 

ROGALAND,  a  folkland  of  S.W.  Norway,  bounded  by  Hord- 
land  in  the  N.  and  Agdir  in  the  E.,  and  for  the  rest  by  the 
sea,  now  Stavangeramt,  i.  ins  13^  I422t3  1433  r5^i  2°8i5 
24o27  24426  27421  304^  30825  31334  3532o  37^  ii-  23lV  5513 
2U6  2i75  36o23  3905  4641021 

ROGNVALDSEY  (Rognvaldsey),  South  Ronaldsey,  Orkney, 
i.  290,2  ii.  i6917 

ROISWELL,  see  Roskild. 

ROME  (Riim,  Rumaborg),  Rome,  ii.  273  235c,  iii.  i24  i4j  237^ 

2567  26210  28812  37921  38oio  20  46i19 
ROME-BURG,   i        R 
ROME-TOWN,  / 
ROSKILD  (Roiskelda,  Hroiskelda),  now  Roskilde,  Cathedral 

town  of  Seeland,  Denmark,  ii.  325^  iii.  2915  790 
RYDIOKUL(Ry^jokull),  a  homestead  in  Raumrealm,  Norway, 

iii.  475-  476s 
ROSSEY  (Hrossey,  Horse-isle),   now  Mainland,   Orkney,  11. 

I7l  -  ,     .. 

ROUEN  (RuSa,  RilBuborg),  the  capital  of  Normandy,  11.  21 .,, 

2728  29i  3*330  3I4rJ  iii-  I55i7  "56« 

VI.  T 


274  Index  II  [ryg — sau 

RYGIARBIT,  now  Jernestangen,  a  district  between  '  Neclenes 

og  Bratbergs  Amter '  (Storm),  ii.  34805 — iii.  438^  465^ 
RYGSBIT,  see  Rygiarbit. 
RYKINSWICK  (Rykinsvik),  now  Rokensviken,  on  the  east 

side  of  the  lake  Rand,  i.  8616 
SACK  (Sekkr),  now  Ssekken,  an  island  in  the  Molde-  or  Roms- 

dalsfjord,  Raumsdale,  Norway,  iii.  44513 
SALLOWWHARF  (Seljuhverfi),  now  the  parish  of  Josund,  in 

the  lower  reaches  of  Texdal  on  the  N.W.  side  of  the  large 

peninsula  of  Fosen,  North-Mere,  Norway,  iii.  2io28 
SALPT  (Salpti,  or  Salfti),  now  Salten,  the  inlet  to  Skjaerstadfjord 

in  mid  Halogaland,  Norway,  i.  32^  3315  14 
SALTWICK  (Saltvik),  a  homestead  in  the  present  parish  of 

Ofot,  in  the  bay  of  the  same  name  in  Halogaland,  Norway, 

i-  353s 
SALTNESS  (Saltnes),  a  homestead  on  the  ness  that  divides 

Orkdale-firth  into  two  arms,  Norway,  iii.  48325 
SAND  (Sandr),  a  homestead  on  Tentisle  (Tjaldey)  in  Haloga- 
land, iii.  35608 
SAND-BRIDGE  (Sandbru),  in  Bergen,  Norway,  iii.  389s 
SANDEY,  now  Sanda  or  Sanday,  a  small  island  south  of  Can- 
tyre,  iii.  2  2  232 
SANDVER,  a  fishing  station  on  the  northern  side  of  the  mouth 

of  Malangfirth,  Finmark,  ii.  2599 
SANDWICK  (Sandvik),  the  homestead  of  Amundi  on  the  east 
coast  of  the  peninsula  now  called  Deerness,  Mainland,  Ork- 
ney, ii.  i7i29  i7629 
SARP  (Sarpr),  a  waterfall  in  Raumelf,  now  called  Sarp,  ii.  7828 

iii-  3i9i2  14  19 
SARPSBURG  (Sarpsborg),  or,  short,  Burg  (Borg),  a  fort  and 

market  town  on  a  ness  cutting  into  the  Raumelf  from  the 

north,  by  the  great  waterfall  Sarp,  founded  by  Olaf  the  Holy 

ii-  7828-794  I02i  M42  25  x49e 1529  2II3o  2575  258s  267io  333i2 

3346  3539  iii-  l833s  277is  24  278i?  3!9s  4665 
SAUDUNGSOUND    (SauSungssund),    now    Sauesund,    the 

southern  inlet  to  Dalefirth  in  the  district  of  Fialir,  between 

Atli's  isle  and  the  mainland,  ii.  3o27  3230 
SAURBY  (Saurbser),  a  countryside  within   the   bailiwick  of 

Dalasysla,  Western  Iceland,  iii.  3387 
S AURBYES  (Saurbaeir),  now  Sorbo,  a  homestead  in  the  northern 


sau — sea]  Index  II  275 

part  of  middle  Bohuslan,  towards  its  eastern  frontier,  Sweden, 
iii.  4195 

SAURLITHE  (SaurhlrS),  slope  by  the  river  Nid,  near  the 
southern  boundary  of  Nidoyce  as  it  was  in  1030,  ii.  448-25 

SAUR'S  HOWE  (Saurshaugr),  now  Saxhougen  (Sakshauger) 
on  Inner-Isle,  Thrandheim,  i.  i625.6 

SAXLAND,  the  land  inhabited  by  Saxons,  North-western  Ger- 
many, i.  i519 ,0  497  64-25  1282o  x3424  253is  255i2  26o4  2S  3°2i 
— ii.  8rx — iii.  25.^  34n 

SAXON-LAND,  see  Saxland. 

SCILLY,  Scillies  (Syllingar),  the  Scilly  Islands,  i.  26i28  26215  19 

264io 
SCANIA,  see  Skaney. 

SCARBOROUGH  (SkarSaborg),  Yorkshire,  iii.  i66n 
SCOTLAND  (Skotland),  i.  ii520  29  n621  i2827 132^  1529 153,, 
155-.  12  i58o0  26ias— ii.  i6817  25  i7415  i8o12  i8724  i8815  253,, 
25434— iii.    2i2   x666   22227   22431  32  225n  239,5  337is  3685 

•2  j  r 

SCOTLAND'S-FIRTHS  (SkotlandsfirSir),  iii.  22i24  225l7 

SCRATCH-SKERRY  (Skrattasker,  from  skratti,  a  sorcerer,  a 
fiend,  cf.  Engl.  '  old  Scratch '),  a  tide- washed  rock  by  the  isle 
of  Kormt,  where  Olaf  Tryggvison  caused  Eyvind  Wellspring 
and  his  fellow  wizards  to  be  engulfed  by  the  tide,  i.  31405 

SEAHAM  (Saeheimr),  now  Ssem,  or,  more  commonly,  Jarls- 
berg,  a  homestead  a  short  distance  to  N.W.  from  Tunsberg, 
Norway,  i.  135^  15  24 

SEAHAM  (Sasheimr),  one  of  K.  Har.  Hairfair's  manors,  now 
Seim  (or  Sasim),  on  the  north  side  of  the  Osterfirth  (north 
of  Bergen),  almost  opposite  Hammer  on  the  island  of  Ostero, 

i-  13730  x3814  i8825  _ 

SEAHOME-DERNE  (SceheimruS),  uncertain,  111.  383^ 
SEALAND  (Sjaland),  the  later  name  for  Selund,  q.v.,  of  the 

Danish  island  of  Sselland,  i.  27o12  ii.  31 24  12  325^  20  iii.  333„ 

38s  39i  4234  43i7  24  44s  46i  782o  9812  i32s  I422<;  3r728     r    , 
SEALAND  (Sjaland),  the  littoral  on  the  Bothnian  Bay  of  the 
part  of  SvtyjdS  (Sweden  in  a  narrow  sense)  called  Upland, 


I  2._„; 


SEAL-ISLES  (Seleyjar),  a  group  of  islands  N.W.  of  Lidandis- 

ness,  Norway,  ii.  3547  iii.  3924 
SEAL-WOUND  (Sel-mein),  a  poet's  etymology  of  the  name  of 


276  Index  II  [sea — sil 

the   Danish    island    Selund,    q.v.    (sel  =  seal,   mein  =  und  = 

wound),  i.  i5713 
SEAWOODSOUND  (SjaviSarsund),  the  Golden  Horn,  Con- 
stantinople, iii.  75j 
SEINEWATER  (Signa),  now  Seine,  river  in  France,  ii.  2  29 
SELE  (Saela),  now  Sselo  (Sselo  kloster),  on  the  south  side  of 

Cape  Stad,  Norway,  ii.  30,.  9 
SELIAPOOL  (Seliupollar),  uncertain  where  in  France,  ii.  i921 2o3 
SELUND,  the  oldest  name  of  the  Danish  island  of  Saslland  (cf. 

Silund,  Sjaland),  i.  i531  i65  2425  4514  4723  x574  22  2s  l6oio— 

iii.  78.27 
SEL-WATERDALE  (Selardalr),  a  homestead  on  the  western 

side  of  Arnarfjor^r  in  the  bailiwick  of  BarSastrandar-sysla, 

North-western  Iceland,  iii.  3724 
SERKLAND  THE  GREAT  (Serkland  hit  mikla),  the  great 

land  of  the  Saracens,  North  Africa,  i.  n1G  iii.  634  5  10  7o2:> 

25219  28l32  28215  28734 

SHAW  (Sk6gr),  now  Skog,  a  homestead  on  the  eastern  shore 
of  the  western  branch  of  Lake  Miors  near  its  northern  term- 
ination, in  the  extreme  north  of  Heathmark,  Norway,  iii. 

448s  45 5 19 
SHEPPEY-SOUND   (Feeyjarsund),  the   sound  between  the 

island  of  Frsedi  and  the  island  Feey  (Sheppey),  now  Flad- 

seto,  west  of  the  former,  i.  I7631-i771 
SHETLAND  (Hjaltland),  i.  ii324  n519  n614  i553— ii.  6g16 

i84io  l87si  i8813— iii.  i6529 
SHIFTSAND  (Skiptisandr),  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  lake 

Rand  or  Randwater,  in  the  district  of  Land,  iii.  38212 
SHIP-CROOK  (Skipakr6kr),  a  locality  by  Nidoyce,  i.  321^ 
SHOOTER'S  FORD  (SkjdtansvaS),  a  ford  over  a   river  in 

Jutland,  i.  3215  cf.  Weaponford. 
SICILY  (Sikiley),  iii.  63r  16  64&  7527  237l5  25sn  27 
SIDON  (Saett),  iii.  257^  258^ 
SIGTOWN,  SIGTUN  (Sigtunir),  name  both  of  the  territory 

Odin  secured  in  Sweden  and  of  the  capital  thereof  (Ancient 

Sigtown,  near  the  present  Signildsberg  on  the  Sigtunafjard, 

Malaren),  i.  i622  26  5212  ii.  79  iii.  43_7  614  775  14 
SIL  (Sil),  now  Sel,  a  small  countryside  on  the  north  side  of 

Low-water   opposite   to  Vagi,  in    northern  Gudbrandsdale, 

Norway,  ii.  2026 


sil — ska]  Index  II  277 

SILI,  an  island,  now  possibly  Selaon  in  the  Malaren  Lake, 
L  6216 

SILUND,  see  Selund. 

SILWALLS  (Silvellir),  plains  in  the  countryside  of  Sil,  ii.  20210 

SINHOLMSOUND  (Sinholmssund),  a  strait  between  '  Senhol- 
men  '  and  the  '  mainland  in  the  district  of  Askvold  in  northern 
Bergenhus  governorship'  (Storm),  iii.  282^ 

SK-EREID  (SkrererS),  'at  Skiringsal,'  i.  6726  685— 'Where 
this  Skaereid  has  been  located  is  not  known  with  certainty 
now.  But  seeing  that  one  MS.  in  this  passage  also  has  the 
reading  SsereiS  {i.e.  Saevar-eiS),  one  is  led  to  think  of  the 
homestead  Sjavaristra  or  Saevaristra  (now  Sorist)  in  Thjoling. 
.  .  .  This  homestead  lies  even  on  the  "eid"  (  =  isthmus)  be- 
tween Vigg's-firth  and  Sand-firth.  Not  far  from  there,  at  the 
mouth  of  the  Vigg's-firth  the  port  of  Skiringsal  must  have 
been  situated,  where  even  to  this  day  the  name  of  Kaupang 
(Cheaping)  reminds  of  it.' — Munch,  '  Hist.-geogr.  Beskrivdse 
over  .  .  .  Norge,'  171. 

SKALHOLT  (Skalaholt),  the  then  southern  cathedral  see  of 
Iceland,  in  the  district  of  Biskupstungur,  within  Arnessysla 
in  Southern  Iceland,  iii.  336S11 

SKANEY  (Skaney,  Skani),nowSkane,thesouthernmostprovince 
of  Sweden,  Danish  possession  till  1660,  i.  6^n  19  i551(J  i5730 
25420  255s  27°u  27i27  2724 — ii.  3I2i5  3%  32°3  32572s  33*24 

— m-  33it  27  3810  4434  453i  4727  48o  14  49s  28  78is  9°23  93i8  29 
SKANEY-SIDE,  side  of  Skaney  (Skaneyjarsi^a),  the  eastward 

sea-board  of  Skaney,  i.  i5730  31  25820  iii.  4910  16  889 

SKARAR,  now  Skara,  a  city  of  West  Gautland,  Sweden,  ii. 

94o  !554 
SKARNSOUND   (Skarnsund),  the  sound  which  divides  the 

Inner-isle   in  Thrandheim-nrth  from   the  western  shore,  ii. 

49io-n 
SKARPA,  now  Skorpo  in  Korsfjord  (the  broad  north-western 

outlet  from  Bjornefjord),  a  small  island  east  of  the  southern 

end  of  the  large  isle  called  Stor  Sartor  in  southern  North- 

Hordland,  Norway,  iii.  45824 

SKARPSKERRIES  (Skorpusker),  on  the  east  coast  of  Eng- 
land, apparently;  unknown?  iii.  376131S 

1.  SKAUN,  now  'Skogn  i  Indherred,'  Upper  Thrandheim,  i. 
97^  ii-  7°i0 


278  Index  II  [ska — sma 

2.  SKAUN,  now  the  parish  of  Stange,  on  the  eastern  side  of 
the  lower  Miors  lake  in  Heathmark,  Norway,  i.  225^  22614 

3.  SKAUN,  now  Skogn  or  Borse-Skogn,  a  countryside  in  lower 
Orkdale  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  valley,  ii.  4610 15 

SKERDING-STITHY  (SkerSingssteSja),  a  manor  on  the  river 
Gaul  in  lower  Gauldale,  i.  2923^  3i98 

SKEGGI'S-HOWE,  by  Eastairt  in  Yriar,  Outer  Thrandheim, 
i.  3232.3 

SKERF-SCREE  (SkerfsurS),  now  Skjers-Urden,  in  Waldale 
in  Todarfirth,  Southmere,  Norway,  ii.  36333  365^ 

SKIRINGSAL  (Skiringssalr),  Othere's  Sciringesheal  (cf. 
Alfred's  'Orosius,'  introd.),  a  trading  port  in  the  south  of 
Norway  situated  in  a  locality  of  the  same  name. — '  Properly 
it  was  the  name  of  a  district  in  the  south-western  part  of 
Westfold,  now  called  Thioling-parish,  between  the  mouth  of 
the  river  Laagen  and  Sandf  jord,  but  the  locality  of  the  trad- 
ing port  is  still  recognizable  by  the  name  Kaupang  (Kaup- 
angr  =  Cheaping)  of  a  farmstead  by  the  firth  called  Viksfjord, 
which  cuts  eastwards  out  from  Larviksfjord.'  Cf.  Munch, 
'  Hist.-geogr.  Beskrivdse  over  .  .  .  Norge,'  p.  30,  and  his 
'  Samlede  Afhandlinger,'  ii.  352  foil.,  i.  6726'686   Cf.  Skgereid. 

SKOT,  now  Skot,  Skottet,  a  homestead  on  a  promontory  where 
the  eastward  continuation  of  Storfjord,  the  Nordfjord,  takes 
a  sharp  bend  to  the  south  into  Slyngsfjord,  Southmere, 
Norway,  ii.  363^ 

SKOTBURG- WATER  (Skotborgara),  now  Kongeaaen,  South 

Jutland,  iii.  3419 
SKURBAGA  (Skurbagar),  a  homestead,  uncertain  which,  in 

the  neighbourhood  of  Kings'  Rock,  iii.  32803  32930  33O0 
SKULI'S-GARTH  (SkulagarSr),  aresidence  in  Nidoyce,  iii.  2o621 
SKUTA  (Skuta),  a  river,  beside  which  Vanland  was  burned,  i. 

2  y  2Q  39 

SKY  (SkiS),  the  Isle  of  Skye,  Invernesshire,  Scotland,  iii.  2  2  27 
SLESWICK  (Slesvik),  now  Schleswig,  N.  Germany,  iii.  26214 
SLESWICK,  read  rather  Sleswickbay  (Sle),  now  Slienfjord,  a 

long  narrow  inlet   running   in   south-westerly   direction  in 

from  the  southern  end  of  the  Broad-Belt  up  to  the  town  of 

Sleswick,  i.  257^ 
SMALLANDS  (Smalond),  now  Smaland,  a  province  of  Sweden 

on  the  south  of  Oster-Gotland,  ii.  333-  iii.  28428  28503  24  25 


sma — sot]  Index  II  279 

SMALSHORN  (Smalsarhorn),  now  Hornelen,  a  sheer  crag  at 
the  easternmost  point  of  the  island  called  Brimangrsland,  now 
Bremanger,  divided  by  the  outer  reaches  of  Nordfjord  from 
the  southern  extremity  of  the  peninsula  of  Stad  in  Firthfolk, 
i.  34o19 

SNOS  (Snos),  a  homestead  at  the  head  of  a  lake  of  the  same 
name,  in  north-eastern  Thrandheim,  the  countryside  about 
the  lake  also  bearing  the  same  name;  all  three  now  called 
Snaas(en),  ii.  483^  486l0 

SOGN,  Sognfolk  (Sogn,  Sygnafylki),  a  folkland  of  Norway  ex- 
tending over  the  basin  of  the  Sogn-sea  (Sogn-firth),  i.  7912  u 

22  25  31  IQ4i2  14  15  I3I29  x56i  24°27  2442o  245i7  24615  26728 

3o82i  353is  378i — ii-  3°20  232u— «i-  22io  23829  3449  394k 
SOGN-FIRTH,  see  foil. 

SOGN-SEA  (Sognsaer),  the  Sognefjord,  Norway,  i.  24532  3o813 

— ii.  2I25  2I32 

SOKENSOUND  (S6knarsund),  now  Sokkensund  (Munch),  the 

sound  which  bounded  on  the  south   by  the  peninsula  of 

Tungunes,    now   Tungenes,    affords   a    N.W.   passage   into 

Stavanger  harbour,  ii.  464^ 
SOLI  (S61i),  now  Sole,  the  manor  of  Erling  Skialgson,  situate 

on  the  isthmus  between  the   head  of  Hafursfirth  and  the 

ocean,  in  the  district  of  Jadar  in  Rogaland,  Norway,  i.  30328 

ii.  2i715  2i8n  26822  35924  hi.  io624  3563 
SOL-ISLES  (S61eyjar),  now  Solor,  a  district  of  Norway  on  the 

north-east  of  Raumrick,  i.  65^  25  30  679  12  ii.  2ior 
SOLSKEL,  now  Solskelo,  in  ^Edo  parish,  off  the  coast  of  the 

southern  part  of  Northmere,  i.  ioo4  io25 
SOLUNDS  (S61undir),  now  Sulendoer,  a  group  of  islands  off  the 

mouth  of  Sognfirth  in  Norway,  i.  26726  iii.  1633  22 
SOLVI  (Solvi),  now  Selven,  a  manor  south-east  from  Agdanes 

on  the  southern  shore  of  outermost  Thrandheim,  i.  i364 
SORRELDALE   (Siirnadalr),  now  Surendal,  a  valley  in  the 

southern  part  of  Northmere,  running  N.E.  up  from  Siirna- 

fjorSr  (Sorrelfirth)  toward  Orkdale,  ii.  279^ 
SOTANESS  (S6tanes),  now  Sotenaset,  a  ness  in  Ranrick,  or 

the  present  Goteborgs  och  Bohuslan,  on  the  east  side  of  the 

Wick,  i.  1723  2ii17 
SOTISKER   (S6tasker),   islands  in  the  Swedish  archipelago 

(Sviasker)  off  the  coast  of  Southmanland  (Sodermanland), 


280  Index  II  [sou — sta 

where  King  Olaf  the  Holy  fought  his  first  battle  with  the 

viking  Soti,  from  whom,  apparently,   the  skerries  got  their 

name,  ii.  617  73 
SOUTHDALE  (Sunndalr),  a  district  bordering  on  the  Vener- 

lake,  southern  Dalsland,  Sweden,  iii.  2  2  619 
SOUTH-ISLES,  Southern  isles  (Su'Sreyjar),  Sodor,  Hebrides, 

i-  JI327  TI523  Il821  J539  21  26l2029°19 "•  l8814 iu-  2I322I20 

2238  10  225o  16  2395  295io  37*22  42427 
SOUTHLAND  (SuSrland),  Sutherland  in  Scotland,  i.  n622— 

ii.  i7o10  1713  in  the  latter  two  cases  Sunderland  is  a  mistake. 
SOUTHLANDS  (Su^rlond),  Mediterranean  countries,  iii.  6318 
SOUTHMANLAND  (SuSrmannaland),  now  Sodermanland,  a 

province  of  Sweden  on  the  south  side  of  the  lake  Malaren, 

i.  586.r  ii.  ii221 
SOUTH-MERE  (Sunnmseri),  see  Mere. 
SOUTHROP  (Su^ajjorp),  now  Suderup,  S.  Jutland,  iii.  9i]0 
SOUTHWARK  (SuSrvirki),  in  London,  fortified  by  the  Danes, 

n-  x3i2  20  YSi  3  35 
SOUTHWICK  (SuSrvik),  a  bight  in  the  island  called  Holmen 

in  the  bay  of  Ringkobing  on  the  western  coast  of  Jutland, 

ii.  n13  25 
SPAIN  (Spann),  iii.  250^  1S  30  25 12  u  is  37i26 
SPAREBY,  Sparbiders-folk  (Sparabu,  Sparbyggja-fylki),  now 

Sparbuen,  a  folkland  round  the  head  of  Thrandheim-firth, 

i.  97^,  i6i19  i6220  ii.  2764 
SPAREBIDERS,  see  Spareby. 

1.  STAD  (Sta^r),  now  Stadtlandet  or  Cap  Stadt,  the  western- 
most peninsula  and  promontory  of  Southmere,  i.  io310  ni18 

I72i7   1 75«5    X 7^27  29    2I 326  29  30    2I431    244is    25    245s    31    27528 

2772-2  3o82o  3°927  ii-  3°7  2I°29  3I0i9  34S25  35%  36130.^-  34815 

2.  STAD  (Sta^r),  now  Stadsbygden,  parish  in  the  bailiwick  of 
Fosen,  on  the  northern  side  of  Thrandheim-firth,  i.  i3616 

STAFANGER,  see  Stavanger. 

STAFF  (Stafr),  a  homestead,  now  disappeared,  in  Verdale, 

i.  i7o19ii.  3q81844621 
STAFFBRENT  (Stafabrekka),  now  Stavebrekke,  a  mountain 

pass  south-east  of  Loradale  in  the  northern  parts  of  Gud- 

brandsdale,  ii.  19993 
STAFFMERE  (Stafamyrar),  bog-lands  at  the  homestead  of 

Staff  in  Verdale,  Upper  Thrandheim,  ii.  39819 


sta — sti]  Index  II  281 

STAFFNESS-BAY  (Stafanessvagr),  now  Stangfjord,  the  north- 
westernmost  baylet  in  the  district  of  Fialir,  i.  io4ls  1053 

STAMFORD  BRIDGE  (StanforSa-bryggjur),  on  the  river 
Derwent,  N.E.  of  York,  iii.  169^ 

STAUR  (Staurrinn),  uncertain;  the  south-eastern  point  of  the 
island  of  Femern  (off  the  north-easternmost  point  of  Wagrien 
in  Holstein),  which  is  called  Staver  or  Staber  (huk)  has  been 
suggested,  as  well  as  the  north-easternmost  point  of  Rugen, 
Stubben-Cammer,  i.  34618 

1.  STAVANGER  (Stafangr),  now  Byfjorden,  on  which  is  the 
city  of  Stavanger,  Norway,  iii.  27.^ 

2.  STAVANGER  (Stafangr),  the  "city  of  Stavanger,  on  the 
eastern  side  of  the  northernmost  peninsula  of  Jadar,  Roga- 
land,  Norway,  iii.  3o818  324,3 

STEADS  (Bies  on  the  map,  Basar),  now  Bo,  cluster  of  home- 
steads in  Lesiar,  Gudbrandsdale,  Norway,  ii.  i9926 

STANGS  (Stangir),  now  Stange,  homestead  and  countryside  in 
Vingulmark,  now  Smaalenene,  Norway,  iii.  47716 

1.  STEIG,  a  manor  on  Angle-isle  in  Halogaland,  iii.  48i15 

2.  STEIG,  a  manor-house  in  the  southern  countryside  of  Froen 
on  the  northern  side  of  the  Low-water,  Upper  Gudbrandsdale, 
Norway,  ii.  24831  iii.  84„5 

STEINKER,  an  ancient  trading  station  at  the  head  of  Thrand- 
heim-firth  (favoured  by  the  earls  Eric  and  Svein,  to  the  dis- 
advantage of  Nidoyce,  which  Olaf  Tryggvison  founded),  ii. 

4^6  492  5°s  14 

STICKLESTEAD  (Stiklastaftir),  now  Stiklestad,  a  homestead 
in  lower  Verdale,  Upper  Thrandheim,  Norway,  ii.  409,3  30 
4io31  41 54  42515  42818  43323  44o7  4463  4473i  449r  45°o  454*8 
467i6— i"-  I2S  i825  i932  2o614  2i22  577  5812  i852(.  4283  429^ 

STIFLA-SOUND  (Stifiusund),  some  inlet  near  the  royal  manor 
of  Geirstead  and  the  old  market-place  of  Skiringsal,  on  West- 
fold,  i.  7i19  72n 

STIM  (Stimr),  a  peninsula  which  marks  the  boundary  between 
Romsdale  and  Northmere,  ii.  352.,  iii.  2843 

STIORADALE,  see  foil. 

STIORDALE  (Stj6radalr),  now  Stjordalen,  Mid-Thrandheim, 
'•  97...  205,  ii.  5o13  7o13 

STIORNVELTA,  an  unknown  place,  but  apparently  north 
of,  and  not  far  from,  Biorgvin,  iii.  4033 


282  Index  II  [sto — sun 

STODREIM  (StoSreimr),  a  manor  situated  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Naustdal  on  the  northern  shore  of  Eidsfjord,  an 
eastern  continuation  of  Nordfjord,   Firthfolk,  Norway,  iii. 

37°23 

STOCK-SOUND  (Stokksund),  supposed  to  be  the  narrow  out- 
let from  the  lake  Skarfven  into  the  Malar  Lake,  called  Staket 
(or  Almare-Staket),  i.  3324  3416  ii.  715 19  32 

i.  STONE  (Steinn),  a  homestead  on  the  Ness  (Bynsesset),  in 
Thrandheim,  ii.  7223 

2.  STONE  (Steinn,  at  Steini),  a  place  in  Ringrick,  Norway,  i. 
870 

3.  STONE  (Steinn),  a  place  in  'the  east  parts  of  Sweden,'  i.e., 
Scythia  Magna,  Godhome,  i.  262 

4.  STONE  (Steinn,  at  Steini),  a  district  in  Esthonia,  i.  531T  31 
STONEBIGHT  (Steinavagr),   a  strait    running  between  the 

islands  of  Aspo  and  Heso  near  Aalesund,  Norway,  ii.  362,3 

— iii.  444., 
STONEBERG  (Steinbjorg),   cliffs  in   the  neighbourhood   of 

Nidoyce,  iii.  20727 
STORD  (StorS),  an  island,  now  called  Stord-oen,  off  South- 

Hordland,  i.  18^  i9o26 
STREAMISLE  (Straumey)  now  Stromo,  one  of  the  middle 

group  of  the  Faroe  isles,  ii.  304^  30532 
STREAMISLE-NESS  (Straumeyjar-nes),  unknown  locality  in 

Denmark,  i.  3910  24  20 
STRIND,  the  principal  district  of  Strindfolk,  in  Thrandheim, 

east  of  Nidoyce,  i.  3i812  ii.  72l7  9316  (where,  as  pars  pro  toto, 

it  stands  for  Norway). 
STRIND-FOLK  (Strindafylki),  a  petty  kingdom  on  the  south 

side  of  Thrandheim- firth,  i.  9630  97a  ii.  4725 
STRIND-LAND  =  Strind. 
STUDLA  (StuSla,  al.  Sto^la),  now  Stole,  a  manor  in  the  district 

of  Etne  in  South-Hordland,  i.  35312  iii.  37i15  39i6 
SULA  (Sula),  a  homestead  in  uppermost  Verdale,  ii.  3975  43720 

— iii.  i831 
SULT,  now  Sylte,  at  the  head,  or  nearly  so,  of  TodarfjorSr, 

now  Tafjord,  the  easternmost  offshoot  of  Storfjord,  Raums- 

dale,  Norway,  ii.  363^  3735 
SUNBERG  (S61bjargir),  a  homestead  apparently  a  short  way 

to  the  north-east  of  the  town  of  Kings'  Rock,  iii.  32822  33324 


sun — swi]  Index  II  283 

SUNDERLAND,  ii.  i7o10  1713  read  Southland,  q.v. 
SVAVA  (Svafa),  Schwaben,  Swabia,  Germany,  iii.  262s 
SVIMR-OYCE  (Svimrardss),  now  Simrishamn  on  the  east  coast 

of  Southern  Skaney,  Sweden,  iii.  285^ 
SVOLD-MOUTH  (Svbldrar  mynni),  the  mouth  of  a  river  which 

the  poet  Skuli  Thorsteinson  knew  by  the  name  of  Svold,  i. 

3684 
SVOLD  (Svold,  Svbld),  not  an  island,  as  Snorri  supposes,  but 

a  river  port  (cf.  Svold-mouth)  a  short  distance  west  of  the 

island  of  Rugen  (Storm),  i.  3615  3626 
SWANFIRTH  the  Southmost  (AlptafjorSr  hinn  sySri),  the 

southernmost  bay  of  the  bailiwick  of  South-Miilasysla  in 

Eastern  Iceland,  i.  32315 
SWEDEN    (Svij>j63): 

1.  SWEDEN  the  Great  or  Cold  (SviJ>j63  hin  mikla  e£a 
hin  kalda),  Scythia,  SvtyjoS  being  a  mere  imitative  corrup- 
tion of  Scythia,  by  means  of  folk-etymology,  qs.  Svi'a  jjjoS, 
Scythia  Magna  of  the  ancients,  i.  n14-i29  i55 — also  called 
Godhome,  2i16  25.22-26! 

2.  SWEDEN,  Swede-realm,  in  a  limited  sense  (Svitrjd^, 
Sviaveldi,  once  Svfariki;  terms  mostly  synonymous,  though 
of  different  extent  of  meaning  at  different  times:  anciently 
the  land  and  dominion  of  the  Sviar,  as  distinguished  chiefly 
from  the  Gautar,  their  neighbours  to  the  south  and  west ; 
later  the  land  over  which  the  dominion  of  the  master-kings 
of  Upsala  extended,  when  the  tribal  kingdoms  had  been 
turned  into  tributary  earldoms  or  provinces),  i.  2o.21  2i15  20 

24l2  2529  27i  3221  364  388  3934  4°2  429  24  44l0  45lS  28  47l3  48i2 
4923  29  5°9  5I27  30  527  18  538-9  11  54s  10  15  16  17  27  31  55s  5612 
57l2   14  15  31    S9l5    639   6422-34   6628  94l5  2  X  222  26   22524   227l8  25 

284i2  16   285n  21  287i2  299is  3I2i4-is  345io-2s  3473  348i3  2o 

35924  31— "•  529  614  IS  76  27  65ll  667  9  9°16  97l3  III26  31  II23  6 
12  20  25  29  IX324  XI426  IX523  IJ92  8  I2°21  X4925  X5320  I54l0  17 
156G  l65l3  2I°12  25616  22   257l5  3335  36814  36929   38629  3874 

38928  39°i  20  30  39!3  27  39225  27  4oo23  4i6.25  46625— in.  317  47  s 

616  I04  M17   I53  33l8  25  4532  589  775  781C  7923  93l9  r4522  J9528 

226s  12  233n  28427  31  42629  428io  47824  4863i 
SWEDE-SKERRIES  (Sviasker),  the  archipelago  to  the  east  of 

Stockholm,  Stockholms  skargard,  ii.  837 
SWINESOUND  (Svinasund),  now  Svinesund,  the  narrowest 


284  Index  II  [syr — thi 

part  of   Hringdals-fjorSr,  which   cuts  into   the  land    from 
Whaleisles  between  Vingulmark  and  Elf  home  or  Ranrealm,  i. 

I05ir  21  I3I28   37727  "•  76i  25-26 
SYRIA-LAND  (S^rland),  Syria,  iii.  2  5730 

SYSLA,  see  Adalsysla. 

TANABRANCH  (Tanakvisl)  =  Tanais,  q.v.,  i.  i24  n 

TANAIS,  the  river  Don  of  Southern  Russia,  i.  i24.9 

TAUR  (Taurr),  now  Sodertorn,  a  peninsula  south  of  Stock- 
holm, between  Morkofjard  to. the  west  and  the  Baltic  to  the 
east,  i.  34l6  26 

TENTHLAND  (Tfundaland),  O.Sw.  Tiohundareland,  (?)  the 
land  of  'ten  hundreds';  Snorri  erroneously  supposes  that  the 
name  meant  '  Tithe-land ' :  a  part  of  the  Swedish  province 
of  Upland,  i.  4316  5510  353! — ii-  ii224  28  ii314 17  20 

TENTSOUND  (Tjaldasund),  now  Tjeldesund,  a  strait  on  the 
eastern  side  of  Hin  island  in  Halogaland,  dividing  from  it  the 
island  now  called  Tjeldo,  iii.  35601 

THAMES  (Temps),  ii.  !3l0  iSe 

THEKSDALE  (peksdalr),  now  Teksdalen,  a  valley  formed  by 
the  river  now  called  Bredes  Elv,  running  north  to  Jossund 
through  the  western  parts  of  the  Fosen  peninsula,  north  of 
Outer  Thrandheim-firth,  iii.  2io28 

THELMARK  fpelamork),  now  Telemarken,  an  island  folk- 
land  of  Norway  surrounded  by  Hordaland  N.W.,  Numdale 
N.E.  and  E.,  Grenland  E.  and  Agdir  S.  and  W.,  i.  ni5  n 

r3ii7  353e  ni-  39 J 4  48o14  48629 
THINGNESS  (Jjinganes),  now  Dingenes,  the  ness  on  which  the 

great  folk-mote  of  Gulathing  was  held,  on  the  south  side  of 

the  mouth  of  the  Sognfirth,  i.  246^ 
THINGWALL  (pingvollr),  name  of  the  lava-plains  where  the 

Althing  of  Iceland  congregated  yearly  from  930-1800,  ii.  24i17 
THIODA  (pjd^Sa),  now  Ty  or  Tyland,  tracts  in  north-western 

Jutland,  Denmark  (not  in  the  east,  as  Snorri  surmises),  iii. 

98is  21 
THIOTANDI  (pj6tandi),  'a  point  of  the  mainland '  (the  pen- 
insula of  Okseno)  '  jutting  out  just  opposite  Nyrvi '  (the  island 
now  called  Norve)  (Munk),  north-west  of  Borgund,  in  South 
Mere.  '  In  the  older  saga  more  correctly  prj6tshverfi,  now 
Kverven,  the  westernmost  ness  on  Ellingsoen '  (suggests 
Storm),  ii.  3633 


thi — thu]  Index  II  285 

THIOTTA  ())j6tta),  now  Tjotto,  island  in  Southern  Haloga- 

land,  i.  30903  32404  3273  s  10  21  3293— ii.  18900  25  i9°is  I9ii3 

198-20  237s  2?2n  33°-2s  332iv  333s  347i>  349i  38 14  3885  42o8 

423s  434i3— ni-  l7n 
THORSHAVEN  (pdrshofn),  now  Thorshavn,  the  capital  of 

the  Faroe  islands,  situated  on  the  eastern  side  of  Stromo 

(Straumey)  towards  the  southern  end  of  it,  ii.  30407 
THORSCLIFF  (p6rsbjorg),  now  Thorshaug,  in  the  parish  of 

Stadsbygden  in  Fosen,  on  the  northern  side  of  Thrandheim- 

firth,  i.  i3616 
THOTN  (potn),  a  district  on  the  west  side  of  Miorswater,  in 

southern  Norway,!.  67,0  24  683  7225  794  93.3  I3I2i  "•  4*26 

209r,  23412  24910  iii.  48309 
THRALLS'  BERG  (praslaberg),  by  the  town  of  Oslo,  Norway, 

iii.  42425  42621 
THRANDHEIM  (prandheimr),  the  basin  of  Thrandheim-firth, 
anciently  containing  eight  folklands  or  petty  kingdoms:  Isle- 
folk,  Spareby,  Verdale,  Skaun,  Strind,  Stiordale,  Gaudale,  and 
Orkdale,  i.  9619  9714  16  98^  9929  ioo21  31  ioi4  io314  2S  iosu 

no23  29  i3i32  i3713 18  14130  I42is  J44r  i49w  I5I24  I552o  x562 
i6i4  18  22  i6419  30  167,5  i7o14  i7i10  15  19  21  197^  i9917  2i 
20212  19  20303  2052729  2063  2628  2o84  2i31623  2r45182530  21620 

2I723   27    2329    23930    24J3   2S    24322  24423    2595    27321    32    28323 

2994  3i619  25  3i926  2S  32Ii5  3269  3272g  3348  3452V  3539  3545 

37720  32 U-    2230  47l9  23  4825  5*18  21  5222  5422  6322  6421  25  65'27 

6612  675  9  6816  722s  73s  8on  l67ie  l89s  20  I922i  25  si  J934  17 

I94o„  I980  I99.5  2X128  23426  24015  24210  26633  274l6  27525  2764 
9  17  23  28324  284l2  z87l5   3°221   34327  347l8  34898  36o18  36l32  34 

372u>  3743  375n  388is  39622  397?2  4°°i7  4°229  4i628  41 78  43°,; 

450- 4524194544  (3  4589  463l2— U1-  607  7524  I720  4O328723  io4it 
Io64   I07o4   III16   I  I43   24   I2826   T452t3   l65l7   2°5ll    37   2°62  19  20 

2io628  21^  21300  2i7l7  27416  32i8  3479  23  34833  368l0  3704 
39°22  39222  4°29  4°7io  4i5u  25  4i620  438i8  44°24  44*7  457ir 

467g  23  24  26  48on  4833! 

THRANDHEIM-MOUTH  (prandheims-mynm),  between  Ag- 

dirness  and  Yrjar,  iii.  3584  359,7 
THRANDNESS  (Jfrrandarnes),  now  Trondenses,  on  the  N.E. 

side  of  the  Hinnisle  in  Halogaland,  ii.  214.30  23914 
THUMLA,  better  Thumli  (pumli),  locality  on  the  island  of 

Hising,  iii.  i3i31 


286  Index  II  [thu — upd 

THUNDERMEAD  (priiSvangr),  Thor's  Swedish  home,  i.  i629 

THURSO  (p6rsa),  a  town  at  the  mouth  of  Thursowater,  north- 
western Caithness,  Scotland,  iii.  37428 

TIREY  (Tyrvist),  Tiree,  island  west  of  Mull,  Argyleshire,  Scot- 
land, iii.  2  2  28 

TODAR-FIRTH  (ToSarfjorSr),  now  Tafjord,  the  innermost 
part  of  Norddalsfjord,  which,  in  its  turn,  is  the  continuation 
of  Storfjorden,  South  Mere,  Norway,  ii.  363^  37227 

TOFTS  (poftar),  now  Tofte  (Toftemoen  ?),  in  the  parish  of 
Dovre,  in  north  Gudbrandsdale,  Norway,  i.  1199 

TONGUES  (Tungur),  islands  off  Tungenses,  north-west  of  Sta- 

vangar,  ii.  3572 17 

TRYGGVI'S  CAIRN  (Tryggva-hreyr),  the  mound  raised  over 
K.  Tryggvi  Olafsson  on  Tryggvi's-isle  (Tryggvaey),  on  the 
western  side  of  Sotaness,  Bohuslan,  Sweden,  i.  2ii20.21 

TUMATHORP  (Tumaj^orp),  now  Tommarp,  a  village  a  short 
distance  S.W.  of  Simrishamn  (Svimr-oyce),  Sweden,  iii.  28520 

TUNSBERG  (Tiinsberg),  now  Tonsberg,  the  chief  trading  sta- 
tion in  Westfold,  i.  1059  io828  i2325  i249  i3420  21  14415  21 
2ii26  24o23  3i218  ii.  5418  7530  1275  i3o23  133^  i6714  2io24 
2i230  24913  25225  3458  34815  35231  35326  111.  i8333  313^  319,5 
3524  35424  36729  43825  44Ql7  30  44824  45°e  455i3  46115  4664 

47°s  4849  4876 
TURKLAND    (Tyrkland),    the    Seldjukian   empire   of   Asia 

Minor,  established  1073,  i.  i57  25,0 

TUSKALAND  (Tuskaland),  Tourraine  in  France,  ii.  2i4 

ULFREKSFIRTH  ('Ulfreksfjor^r),  Lough  Lame,  in  north- 
eastern Ireland,  ii.  i3714  17420 

ULLERACRE  (Ullarakr),  the  seat  of  Princess  Ingigerd,  existing 
no  more,  was  situated  near  the  spot  where  the  present  castle  of 
Upsala  stands,  ii.  114,9  115131s  l63is 

ULLERS-ACRE,  see  Ulleracre. 

ULSTER  ('Ulaztir),  Ireland,  iii.  239181926 

UNARHEIM,  now  Onereim,  a  homestead  on  the  eastern  side 
of  Tysnseso   in  Bjornefjord,  South-Hordland,   Norway,  iii. 

46730 
UPDALE  (Updalr),  the  uppermost  part  of  Orkdale  in  Thrand- 

heim,  Norway,  ii.  4530 

UPDALE-WOODS  (Uppdals-sk6gr),  the  woodland  of  Updale, 

the  highest  part  of  southern  Orkdale,  i.  999 — ii.  4531 


uph — val]  Index  II  287 

UPHOWE  (Upphaugr),  now  Ophaug,  a  manor  in  Yrjar,  i.  277.^ 

3*728 
UPLANDS  (Uplond),  a  collective  term  for  the  five  folklands: 

Hadaland,  Heathmark,  Raumrick,  Gudbrandsdale  and  East- 
dales,  in  Norway :  i.  6720  7224  7829  8o3  9224  26  9512  no22  1157 

II9s   I2IU   I3322   14430   I5°15  25   I5I4.|4  2°9l4    2I°4    2I215  2254 

273^0  27716  28330  2879  28q26  299n— n.4o104i21  4503  ioi2028S0 
1030  i26ls  i9230  i9917  2io20  23414  24857s9  258-  33730  33% 
34326  39°27  40o18  4i823  454.5—111.  87^  io5l7  io620  iii31  i447 
i464 14914  2o522  2103  2794  283,3  315^  349ie  19  38ln  385-26  447h> 

448w  457ie  47420  25  477;  48329 
UPSALA  (Upsalir),  now  Gamla  Upsala,  some  3!  miles  to  the 

N.E.  of  the  present  university  town,  i.  420  i628  222629  24^ 
2628  2  78  2912  17  3on  3618  406  28  422 12 14  15  17  22  27  30  4315 1S  46l7 
5°i9  5J5  22  55io  15  57io  11  u  25  27  5812  6i25  627  6631  9330  2i39— 
ii.  97n  98x  in28  1 1 27  30  3033  ii312  H427  IS6io 

VADLA  (VaSla),  a  river,  uncertain  which,  running  by  Borro, 
Norway,  i.  69^  25 

VAGA,  see  foil. 

VAGAR  (Vagar),  now  Vaagen,  on  the  south  of  the  island  now 

called  Ostvaago,  on  the  S.W.  side  of  Hinn  isle  in  Halogaland, 
Norway,  i.  309^— ii.  238^  2  884— iii.  263^  35720 
VAGI  (Vagi),  a  countryside  along  the  lake  Vagi  ( Vaage  Vand), 
formed  by  the  river  Otta  in  northern  Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  2oo10 

2022  5  20419 

VAGI-ROOST  (Vagarost),  the  countryside  between  the  eastern 
end  of  the  lake  Vagi  (Vaage  Vand),  and  the  Low  river,  through 
which  the  lower  Otta  flows,  Upper  Gudbrandsdale,  Norway, 

ii.  2026 

VALDRES  (not  Valldres),  now  Valdres  or  Valders,  a  district 
east  of  Sognfolk  bounded  to  the  north  by  Gudbrandsdale,  to 
E.  by  Land  and  Ringrick,  to  S.  by  Haddingdale,  i.  931S  2822[) 

1 1      /IT  2  2  2         2  *2  "2 

VALHALL  (ValhdllXthe  Hall  of  Odin's  Elect,  i.  20,,  i8830 189310 

VALLAND,  France,  chiefly  Normandy,  i.  n822  i2827  26i25— ii. 

i2lv,  2i17  23  2728  293  3i330  334i— iii-  1263  i57is  237io  24922 

37123 
VALSNESS  (Valsnes),  a  place  in  the  parish  of  Josund,  lower 

Theksdale,  on  the  N.W.  side  of  the  Fosen  peninsula,  North- 
Mere,  Norway,  iii.  3580 


288  Index  II  [van — vet 

VANABRANCH  (Vanakvisl)  =  Tanais,  i.  i25 
VANAMOUTHS,  the  outlets  of  the  river  Tanais  into  the  Black 

Sea,  i.  i26 
VANG  (Vangr),  now  Vossevangen,  a  homestead  in  the  district 

of  Vors  in  North-Hordland,  Norway,  ii.  23i25 
VANHOME,  see  Vanland. 
VANLAND  (Vanaland),  or  Vanhome  (Vanaheimr),  the  land  of 

the  Vanir,  between  the  mouths  of  the  Tanais,  i.  i27  14^  2531 
VARDYNIAR  (VarSynjar),  now  Valbo  (harad),  a  district  in 

Dal  or  Dalsland,  Sweden,  hi.  2  2619 
VARNA,  now  Rygge  parish,  in  the  so-called  Smaalenene,  Nor- 
way, i.  6826  28 
VARNESS  (Varnes),  now  Vsernes,  a  homestead  in  Stiordale,  in 

Upper  Thrandheim,  i.  i7ol7  3197 
VEAR  (Vear),  now  Vedbo  harad,  on  the  N.W.  boundary  of 

Northdale,  in  Dalsland,  Sweden,  iii.  2  2  619 
VEBIORG  (Vebjorg),  now  Viborg,  a  town' in  central  Jutland, 

Denmark,  iii.  2820  926 
VEIGA,  now  Vegeno,  an  island  in  southern   Halogaland,  i. 

378, 
VE-ISLE  (Veey),  now  Veo,  in  the  mouth  of  the  Langfjord, 

Raumsdale,  Norway,  iii.  44225  445!  16 

VENDIL  (Vendill  and  Vindill),  now  Vendsyssel,  a  district  of 
North-Jutland,  Denmark,  i.  4726  48^  6822  i7421 

VENDILSKAGI,  now  Skagen,  the  northernmost  part  of  Jut- 
land, Denmark,  iii.  9818  9934  43815 

VENER-LAKE,  Vener- Water  (Vgenir),  now  Venern  in  Vester- 
gotland,  Sweden,   i.  So16  65^  6620   nols  ii.   7620  iii.  i4925 

lfi  IS  SI  /is 

VERADALE,  Verdale  (Veradalr),  now  Vasrdalen,  in  Upper 
Thrandheim,  i.  977  i7o19  ii.  6929  i9530  3976  4°9i2  4l63o  43629 

437i8  44^3 
VERMLAND,  Wermland   (Vermaland),  part  of  the  present 

Swedish  province  of  Varmland,  a  petty  kingdom  colonized 

out  of  wild  woods  by  K.  Olaf  the  Tree-shaver,  i.  65 18  666 

6812    13    7226    I05l4    Io69   14    16    Io819   20    IIOlFiL     II213    *S619 
36917  39°29  — iiL    I467  2  2617 

VETTLAND  (Vettaland),  a  manor  in  northern  Ranrealm,  now 
Vattlanda,  in  the  northern  part  of  Goteborgs  och  Bohuslan, 
i-  793i  8o4— iii.  41928 


vi g — wal]  Index  II  289 

VIGG  (Vigg),  now  Viggen,  a  homestead  on  the  eastern  side  of 

Gaulaross,  the  small  bay  that  runs  S.E.  into  Gauldale,  Outer 

Thrandheim,  Norway,  i.  2925 
VIGG,  now  Viggen,  in  Borsen  parish,  on  the  eastern  side  of  the 

Orkdale-firth,  Outer  Thrandheim,  Norway,  ii.  48l7  409^ — iii. 

2i17 
VIKARS-SKEID  (Vikarsskei'S),  now  SkeiS,  which  a  sandy  shore 

stretching  westward  from  the  mouth  of  Olfus-river  (Olfusa) 

the  main  river  of  Arness-sysla  in  Southern  Iceland,  is  called, 

i.  26g12 
VIMUR  (Vimr),  a  mythic  river,  iii.  24918 
VINA,  see  Dwina. 
VINELAND  THE  GOOD  (Vinland  hit  goSa),  part  of  North 

America,  discovered  by  Leif  the  Lucky,  son  of  Eric  the  Red, 

i.  x  ^  ^ 
VINGULMARK  (Vingulmork),  a  district  round  the  Oslo-  or 
Christiania-firth,  bounded  east  by  the  Raumriver,  i.  7o29  7220 

77l6   20    8°7   25    937    I0527    lo830    *3*m    Y$lxi   24i7    249i8   iL 
I02J 

VISKDALE  (Viskardalr),  a  valley  formed  by  the  river  Visk, 
now  Viskan,  in  northern  Halland,  Sweden,  iii.  2o816  27 

VIST  ('Ivist),  now  Uist,  in  Sodor  (the  text  comprises  under  the 
name  probably  both  North  and  South  Uist),  iii.  2  222 

VIST,  now  Viste,  a  place  '  in  the  northernmost  tracts  of  Jadar' 
(Storm),  Norway.    F.  J6nsson  localizes  it  in  Raumsdale,  iii. 

356i4 
VLAKMEN'S  LAND  (Blokkumanna-land),  Wallachia,  111.  429^ 

VOGAR,  see  Vagar. 

VORS  (Vors),  a  part  of  North-Hordland  now  called  Voss, 
Norway,  i.  2 162  ii.  896  23i22 

VORVI  (Vorvi),  a  place  in  Reith-Gothland,  i-  32i  8  10  29 

VULGARIA,  Greater  Bulgaria,  on  the  Volga,  iii.  38 in 

WAINWICKSTRAND  (Vagnvikastrond),  the  coastal  tract 
about  the  place  now  called  Vagnvik  in  Stadsbygden  on  the 
northern  side  of  outer  Thrandheim-firth,  North  Mere,  Nor- 
way, iii.  2io26 

WALD  (fyrir  Valdi),  a  sea-port  of  Northumberland  (?),  ii.  295 
— «  Fyrir  Valdi '  would  seem  to  point  to:  'off  the  Weald,'  or 
'  off  the  Wold.'    Locality  unverified. 

WALES,  see  Bretland. 

vi.  u 


290  Index  II  [wal — wes 

WALL-DALE  (Valldalr),  on  the  northern  side  of  Todarfirth, 
South  Mere,  Norway,  ii.  363^  37227 

WALLS  (Veggir),  now  Vagga,  on  the  south  (east)  side  of  Sota- 
ness,  Sweden,  i.  2iil7 

WAMBHOLME  (Vambarholmr),  now  Vomma  or  Vomba,  a 
small  island  on  the  western  side  of  Havnoen  off  the  mouth 
of  the  Velfjord,  Halogaland,  Norway,  iii.  2i26 

WARRAND  (Varrandi),  a  trading  town  of  Poitou,  according 
to  the  saga,  but  =  Guarande,  a  landscape  in  Southern  Brit- 
tany? ii.  2o30  2in 

WATERBY  (Vatsbtf),  now  Vadsbo,  a  district  in  north-eastern 
West  Gautland,  Sweden,  ii.  369^ 

WATERDALE  (Vatsdalr),  the  midmost  of  three  valleys  which 
from  south  open  into  the  HunafjorSr  in  Hunavatnssysla, 
Northern  Iceland,  ii.  3733 

WEAPONFIRTH  (VapnafjorSr),  a  firth  in  north-eastern  Ice- 
land, i.  2  6829  26923 

WEAPONFORD  (Vapnava^),  another  name  for  Shooter's-ford, 

i.  3216 
WAY-SOUND  (Vegsund),  now  Vegsund,  strait  between  the 
islands  of  Sula  (Sulo)  and  Okseno,  in  South  Mere,  Norway, 

ii-  363i3 
WEATHER-ISLE  (Ve'Srey),  now  Vaderoarna,  off  the  district  of 

Kvildir  (Qville)  in  Goteborgs  och  Bohuslan,  Sweden,  ii.  33225.28 
WENDLAND  (Vindland),  the  southern  seaboard  of  the  Baltic, 
from  the  river  Weichsel  west  to  Holstein,  inhabited  by  the 
Slavonic  race  the  Northmen  called  Wends  (Vindr),  i.  252,3  9 
254io  12  2553  is  26on  22  25  262u  27°23  27*i  346l7  34923  27 
35°io  3513  35815  359ie  36o10 15  3K 10  3752i  33  3764— »•  i395 

17  449i2  1U"  322  9  13  20  34  3°3n  33327  29 
WESTFIRTH  (Vestfjor^r),  in  northern  Halogaland,  ii.  29i6.7 

WESTFOLD  (Vestfold),  folkland  on  the  western  side  of  the 
Fold,  q.v.,  and  its  western  offshoot,  the  Drafnfirth,  i.  6723  25 
68is  20  25  7°7  72is  77is  789  8627  9_i20  24  929  io526  131^  i3419 
i354  i424  i5i18  i97i6  24i7  2848  11.  3330  344 

WESTLAND  (Vestland),  a  seaside  district  on  the  island  of 
Rugen,  iii.  3812  24  _ 

WESTLANDS  (Vestrlond),  generally  the  British  Isles  in  the 
widest  sense,  in  a  narrower  sense  the  north  British  isles,  i. 

1 1 59  2895  34^24 i"-    I2222 


wes — wol]  Index  II  291 

WESTMANLAND  (Vestmannaland),  a  province  of  Sweden 

on  the  west  of  Upland,  ii.  H22a 
WESTMERE  (Vestmarar),  seemingly  the  coast  district  between 

Langesundsfjord  in  the  east  and  East  Agdir  in  the  west,  S. 

Norway,  i.  7o0  73s 
WHALEISLES  (Hvalir),  now  Hvaloerne,  west  of  the  mouth 

of  Swinesound,  belonging  to  Smaalenene,  Norway,  iii.  36i30 
WHARFNESS  (Hvarfsnes),  now  Kvarven,  the  northern  spur 

of  the  mountain  now  called  Lyderhorn,  west  of  Bergen,  iii. 

WHITBY  (Hvitabyr),  in  Yorkshire,  iii.  376T  ? 

WHITING-ISLE  (Hvitingsey),  now  Hvidingso,  an  island-group 
in  the  mouth  of  the  large  BoknarfjorSr,  now  Bukken-firth, 
N.W.  of  Stavanger,  Norway,  ii.  7410  26827 

WICK,  The  Wrick  (Vik,  Vikin),  a  general  territorial  term  for 
the  folk-lands  bordering  on  the  bay  of  Fold,  now  Christiania- 
fjord,  viz.,  Grenland,  Westfold,  Vingulmark  and  Elfhomes, 
i.  io47  105,3 12  24  ii54  6  118!  3  i2326  128-  i3422  1429  12  i446 

15  18  27   ISX8   I569  10I581S22   l6°1110   J7214   '99x2   2°215  2II10  25 

2i24  2i313  2254  2372S  24o22  24224  299^  3oos  3oi132S  302s 
3°3i  4 13 17  3°929  3iri8  3I2i4  3*318  20  3424  23  3782o— "•  332s 

547  18  55l0  IS  22  64i5    7522  26  30  779    7827  799   8o21    8lS  8420    8S3 
863    I2629    I279    X44o    l67l3    2I°2S    2II13    29    2483    249l2    25614 

2688  27521  333n  12  35230  35331  35615  45°4  46412— "*•  93"i  i27i3 
1310  i4527  i4913  i6o21   205T  207lfl  2o814   2i430  215!   2i724 

22o30  22625  2279  2323  3i518  24  31705  3i8n  3194  32o23  34714 
16  is  35°26  3522  354oi  23  3597  is  36i20  3734  2s  386io  39°22  391! 
3922i  23  394is  20  399i7  4°o5  s  4Q2i3  4°3i«  4i5i9  4i627  28  4i824 
438n  25  44ii  448io  24  26  45°io  45521  458s  11  15  46ols  46in 
465n  25  27  4664  46930  47i4  11  4726  474i  25  2s  4775  6  11  4795  7  26 
4809  4843 
WICK  (Vik),  now  Saxvik,  in  the  district  of  Strind,  Thrandheim, 

iii-  233i3  3362IJ 
A\'ICK,  better  Wicks  (Vikar),  now  Vik,  in  the  district  of  Brono 

on  the  Velfjord  in  southern  Halogaland,  iii.  35724 
WILLI AM'S-BY  (Vilhialmsbser),  a  place  in  France,  ii.  19512-13 
WINCHESTER  (Vincestr),  iii.  9.20  258  1S 
WITCHWICK  (Gandvik),  the  Whitesea,  ii.  263.^ 
WOLFKELSLAND     (Ulfkelsland),    dominion    of    Wolfkel 

Snilling  in  East  Anglia,  ii.  i65  n 


292  Index  II  [wol — yri 

WOLF-SOUND  ('Ulfasund),  between  Vagey,  now  Vaagsoen,  and 
the  mainland,  in  Northfirth  (Nordfjord)  in  Firthfolk,  Norway, 

i-  175u— "•  3°i9— iiL  2325 
WORK  =  Danework,  q.v. 

WORLD-RIDINGS  (heimsJmSjungar),  the  three  parts  of  which 

the  known  world  consists,  Europe,  Asia,  Africa,  i.  n12 
YORK  (J6rvik),  capital  of  Northumberland,  i.  i52<,5 — hi.  1675 

i6831 
YOUNGFORD  (JungufurSa),  an  English  town?  ii.  2822 
YRIAR  (Yrjar),  now  Orlandet,  a  peninsula  on  the  northern 

side  of  the  mouth  of  Thrandheim-firth,  North  Mere,  Norway, 

i-  9605  2i526  277^  3i728  323l  hi.  in4 


INDEX  III 

INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS 

All  matters  relating  to  Dress,  Hotise,  Ships,  Weapons,  will  be 
found  grouped  together,  classified  where  needful,  and  arranged 
in  alphabetical  order,  under  these  headings.  In  technical  mat- 
ters more  or  less  beyond  the  reach  of  the  language  of  the  trans- 
lation, such  as  certain  articles  of  dress,  names  of,  and  terms 
relating  to  houses,  appellatives  for  ships,  the  Icelandic  word 
takes  precedence  of  that  of  the  translation.  At  the  end  will  be 
found  a  complete  list  of  Icelandic  terms  (phrases  mostly  omitted) 
dealt  with  in  the  Index,  with  a  cross-reference  to  the  leading 
word  of  each  particular  entry. 
ABBESS  (abbadis,  O.E.  abbodesse),  of  the  Benedictine  convent 

of  Gimsey,  iii.  42i30 
ACRE-GARTH  (akrgerfti),  a  fenced-in  cornfield,  iii.  3i621 
ADDER  (e^51a  =  viper,  or  perhaps  lizard,  lacerta),  crawling  out 
of  the  hollow  image  of  Thor,  when  smashed  to  pieces  by  Olaf 
the  Holy's  order  at  Hof  in  Gudbrandsdale,  ii.  2o8x  16 — (na^r, 
poet,  term  for  ormr)  used  by  the  poets  to  designate  the  two 
'  Worms '  =  Dragonships,  the  '  Short '  and  the  '  Long '  in  Olaf 
Tryggvison's  navy,  i.  37o26  375,3  377is 
AGE  (old) — 1.  age  of  burning  (brunaold) — 2.  age  of  barrows 

or  howes  (hauga-old).  See  Burials. 
ALE  (61),  the  national  drink  of  the  Scandinavians.  Borne 
round  to  guests  even  by  kings'  daughters,  i.  60^3 — worshippers 
at  the  temple  of  Ladir  must  bring  with  them  their  own  ale 
and  victuals,  i659.14 — ale  should  be  drunk  by  litten  fires  at 
Olaf  the  Holy's  court,  ii.  6"]i{) — and  should  be  carried  round 
the  long-fires  in  the  hall  to  the  consumers,  i.  i652M6  iii.  193^ 
329, — (mungat),  homebrewed,  small  beer,  iii.  357., 
ALL-BYRNIED  (albrynja'Sr),  in  full  armour,  iii.  1 7 322  178,5 
— of  horses,  1 7323 


294  Index  III  [all — ang 

ALL-FOLK-HOSTING  (almennings  leiSangr),  levy  of  all  the 
force  which  by  law  was  liable  to  naval  military  service 
(lei^angr),  which,  by  the  provision  of  the  Older  Gula-Thing 
Law,  ch.  297  ('Norges  Gamle  Love,'  i.  97),  amounted  to 
'every  seventh  nose,'  or  14  per  cent,  of  the  population,  iii. 
i2923  i87l7.18  cf.  47i5.7 — all-men  war-muster,  id.,  one  half  of, 
iii.  i628.9 

ALTAR  (altari),  ii.  i3i24  45633  45710 18 17  459l0  46o4  iii.  19512-16 
30907  42920 — altar-table  (tabula)  of  Byzantine  workmanship, 
3°928-3i — altar-cloth  (altarisklae^i),  made  of  a  cloak  of  brown 
purple  given  to  Steig-Thorir  by  K.  Harald  Sigurdson,  iii.  87., 

ALTHING,  see  Thing. 

ANGELICA  (hvann-nj61i),  made  present  of  to  Queen  Thyri  by 
01.  Tryggvison,  i.  35in.33.  As  the  story  of  this  gift  is  told  in 
all  sagas  relating  to  01.  Tryggvison:  Odd  Snorrison's  'Christi- 
ania,'  1853,  p.  47i7-30;  Fms-  x-  3362o-3372o  cf-  Scripta  hist. 
Islandorum,  x.  3io22-3ii16;  01.  s.  Tryggv.  Fms.  ii.  24419- 
24512cf.  S.  h.  I.  ii.  2282-229s;  Fris.  i5519-i562;  Flat.  i.  44716- 
4480,  the  king's  act  becomes  apiece  of  aimless,  puerile  civility, 
and  its  real  historical  significance  is  utterly  lost.  But  through 
the  whole  we  can  see  what  really  must  have  taken  place.  The 
queen  considered  herself  wrongfully  deprived  of  the  income 
which  her  possessions  in  Denmark  and  Wendland  should 
yield  her.  She  urged  her  husband  to  get  these  possessions 
restored  to  her.  He  and  his  council  were  utterly  disinclined 
to  embark  on  the  adventurous  undertaking  advocated  by  the 
queen,  and  so  resolved  to  settle  on  her  such  a  dowry  as 
Norway  could  afford.  This  the  king  offered  her,  and  in  ac- 
cordance with  ancient  custom  observed  when  landed  dominion 
was  conferred  on  a  princely  recipient,  presented  her  with  the 
plant  which  symbolized  an  irrevocable  right  of  possession, 
cf.  reed.  The  queen,  considering  the  offer  insufficient,  spurns 
the  symbol  of  acceptance,  remarking  that  her  father  Harald's 
gifts  to  her  used  to  be  a  good  deal  greater,  a  remark  which 
cannot  possibly  refer  to  the  insignificant  plant,  but  must  have 
alluded  to  the  difference  between  the  appanage  offered  by 
Olaf  and  the  dowry  settled  on  Thyri  by  her  father  in  Den- 
mark, in  the  shape  of  landed  dominion.  This  seems  to  be  the 
true  historical  meaning  of  this  interesting  incident  of  which 
the  Christian  admirers  of  Olaf  lost  sight,  thinking  that  he 


ang — ars]  Index  III  295 

wanted  to  show  his  spouse  a  signal  token  of  the  divine  favour 
which  blessed  his  reign  with  seasons  of  miraculous  fertility. 

ANGELICA  STALK  (the  hollow  part  of)  (hvann-nj61a  trumba), 
used  for  an  instrument  of  torture,  i.  3333.8 

ANVIL,  see  Snout-anvil. 

APOSTLES'  CHURCH,  see  Church. 

ARCHBISHOP'S  CHAIR  (erkibiskups  st611),  at  Upsala, 
erected  1176,  ii.  ii231 — K.  Sigurd  swears  in  Jerusalem  that 
he  will  set  up  one  in  Norway,  iii.  2  5723.24 — which  was  estab- 
lished first  in  the  reign  of  K.  Ingi  Haraldson  at  Christ's 
Church  in  Nidoyce,  a.d.  1152,  380^3 

ARCHERY :  Einar  Thambarskelfir  the  hardest  shooter  of 
men,  i.  37i5.6  ii.  2  21S.21 — Finn,  on  board  Earl  Eric's  war-galley 
the  Ironbeak,  the  greatest  of  bowmen,  i.  37i15.16 — Olaf 
Haraldson  knew  well  the  craft  of  the  bow  (kunni  vel  viS 
boga),  ii.  421.22 

ARROW,  see  Weapons,  offensive. 

ARROW-BIDDING  (or-boS),  the  promulgation  of  the  sum- 
mons which  were  attached  to  a  war-arrow,  q.v.,  ii.  4691.22 

ARROW-SHEARING  (orvar-skurSr),  the  cutting-out  o"f  a" war- 
arrow,  q.v.,  iii.  2ion 

ARROW-THING,  see  Thing. 

ARSON  (brenna),  we  group  under  this,  for  want  of  a  better 
heading,  the  burning  of  human  habitations  together  with  the 
inmates. — The  sons  of  Visbur  fall  upon  their  father  unawares 
at  night,  and  burn  him  in  his  house,  i.  28n.26 — King  Solvi 
came  unawares  on  (tok  hds  a)  K.  Eystein  of  Sweden,  and 
burnt  him  in  his  house,  529.n — K.  Ingiald  burned  six  kings  in 
one  hall  at  Upsala,  5721-594  and  took  the  house  over  (t6k 
hiis  a),  and  burnt  within  it,  kings  Granmar  and  Hiorvard, 
6214.20 — the  Swedes  took  the  house  over  (tdku  hiis  a),  and 
burnt  in  his  hall,  K.  Olaf  Treeshaver,  6616.19 — Solvi  Klofi 
burnt  K.  Har.  Hairfair's  men  out  of  house  and  home  in 
winter  warfare,  ioi10 — Rognvald  Mere-Earl  took  the  house 
over  the  head  of  K.  Vemund  of  Firthfolk,  and  burnt  him 
within  with  ninety  men,  io31(;..,a — two  sons  of  Hairfair  took 
the  house  over  (toku  hiis  a)  Earl  Rognvald,  and  burnt  him 
within  with  sixty  men,  i2492.2G — Eric  Bloodaxe  burnt  in  his 
house,  together  with  eighty  wizards,  Rognvald  his  brother, 
1 3321-25  and  took  the  house  over  (t6k  hiis  a)  the  head  of  his 


296  Index  III  [asc — bai 

brother  Biorn,  i35lc — Halfdan  the  Black  (s.  o.  Har.  Hairfair) 
took  the  house  over  the  head  of  (t6k  hus  a)  his  brother  Eric, 
who  escaped,  while  all  his  men  were  burnt  within,  i367.u — 
Harald  Greycloak  burns  Earl  Sigurd  and  all  his  men  in  his 
house  at  Oglo,  2o518.20 — the  same  Harald  takes  the  house 
over  the  head  of  his  first  cousin,  Gudrod,  and  slays  him, 
2ii24-2i22 — Harek  of  Thiotta  burns  Grankel  in  his  house 
with  thirty  men,  ii.  34718-o7 — Thorir  of  Steig  burns  the  house 
of  John  in  Birchisle,  and  a  longship  of  his  besides,  iii.  2ii4.5 
10-16 — K.  Eystein  Haraldson  burns  down  the  residence  of 
Gregory  Dayson  in  his  absence,  39103.04  and  is  accused  of 
having  burnt  down  the  fine  dockyard  at  Nidoyce,  together 
with  ships  belonging  to  his  brother  Ingi,  39124.31 — Gregory 
Dayson  sets  fire  by  night  to  the  manor  of  Saur-Byes,  4199 — 
Erling  Askew  takes  the  house  on  Ozur  in  Hising  and  burns 
him  within ;  burns  three  homesteads  beside,  and  slays  one 
hundred  people,  4605 10 

ASCENSION  DAY,  see  Feasts. 

ASHES  (aska),  of  dead  men  burnt  under  Odinic  law  should  be 
carried  out  to  sea  or  buried  in  the  earth,  i.  2on.12 — something 
resembling  ashes  was  kept  by  Gunnhild  in  a  linen  sack  and 
made  use  of  by  her  for  the  purpose  of  leading  wizard  Finns 
off  their  scent,  i2  925.32 — the  same  stuff  kept  in  the  same 
manner  by  Thorir  Hound,  and  used  for  the  same  purpose 
against  pursuing  Biarms,  ii.  26231-2632 

ASK  (askr),  a  measure  for  liquids  holding  4  'bollar'  bowls  or 
16  'justur;'  we  have  not  the  means  of  comparing  it  with  an 
English  measure — ask  of  honey,  iii.  34215 

ATONEMENT  (boetr),  see  Weregild.  * 

AUN'S  SICKNESS  (Anas6tt),  painless  sickness  unto  death 
from  old  age,  i.  4319.20 

AXE  (ox),  an  executioner's,  in  the  phrase:  to  lead  under  the 
axe  (lei^a  undir  oxi),  to  execute  by  the  axe,  iii.  363^ 

BACKBONE-PIECE  (Hryggjarstykki),  the  name  of  a  book 
written  by  the  historian  Eric  Oddson,  containing  the  history 
of  Harald  Gilli,  his  sons,  Magnus  the  Blind  and  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon,  iii.  36514.27 

BAILIFF  (sysluma^r),  an  official  whose  business  it  was  to 
gather  in  a  king's  or  an  earl's  dues,  fines,  etc.,  and  to  main- 
tain law  and  justice  in  his  district  (sysla),  ii.  2315.21  763  295l7 


BAI — BAN]  Illdc.X  III  297 

— 2.   (armaftr),   in  England,  iii.   182,^  where,   however,  the 

persons  in  question  seem  to  have  been  engaged  in  military 

service.    Cf.  Steward. 
BAILIFFRY  (armenning),  the  office  executed  on  the  king's 

behalf  by  an  armaSr,  a  bailiff  or  steward  of  royal  estates,  i. 

35413  cf.  steward — 2.  (sysla),  the  office  of  a  tax-gatherer  and 

justiciary,  ii.  7503.04  2i225  2i314  237.03 
BAILIWICK  (sysla),  the  district  over  which  a  'sysluma'Sr'  is 

appointed,  ii.  7823  798  iQ°io-i2  2377  w  i»  24  292r,  3382i  345a 
348^ — iii.  723  i8l7  2827— Harek  of  Thiotta  had  the  b.  of  Ha- 
logaland  part  as  'grant'  part  as  'fief,'  ii.  2379.10 — Bailiwicks, 
i.  13I09  should  rather  read  grants  (veizlur),  cf.  grant. 

BAKE  (baka),  bread  baked  in  heated  ovens,  iii.  i2  515.29 

BALE  (bal),  funeral  pyre,  i.  20-  8 

BANESMEN  (bana-menn),  slayers,  iii.  no23 

BANNER  (merki),  war-standard:  King  Eric  and  Jorund's  in 
the  battle  of  Fyris-meads,  i.  40n — King  Egil's,  4431 — K. 
Guthorm  Ericson's,  i7226 — K.  Har.  Hairfair's  in  the  stem  of 
his  dragon,  9809 — his  banner  long  borne  by  Egil  Woolsark, 
1760.3 — Hakon  the  Good's  banners  in  the  battle  of  Rast- 
kalf"  i779.16  is  25 — and  in  tnat  of  Fitiar,  1835  1850  i8914— 
K.  Gamli  Ericson's  at  Rastkalf,  178,, — Earl  Sigvaldi's  at  the 
battle  of  Hiorungwick,  2  773.6 — Olaf  Tryggvison's  on  board 
the  Long  Worm,  35228 — banners  set  up  before  captains  on 
board  ship,  366^-36  ^  6 — Olaf  Haraldson  visits  his  mother 
with  his  banner  flying  forth,  ii.  373.4 — his  banner  in  the  battle 
of  Nesiar  white  with  a  snake  drawn  on  it,  579 — set  up,  on 
going  into  fight,  572o — borne  in  front  of  the  king  in  battle, 
59T.U — the  pole  of  it  gilt,  59n — K.  Olaf's  banner  at  Stickle- 
stead  set  up  in  the  centre  of  the  army  and  supported  by  the 
bodyguard  and  the  guests,  39930  4°°i3is  42430  4295  e  433-24 
43^16 — Day  Ringson's  stationed  on  the  right,  4ool7.2043i14 — 
on  the  left  the  banner  of  the  Swedish  mercenaries,  4oo20-24 
cf.  4io2  5  4i223  4i615 — Kalf  Arnison's  banner  in  the  centre 
of  the  rebels  (facing  K.  Olaf's),  423,3  ]0  42429  42712  42821 — 
the  banner  of  the  men  of  Rogaland,  Hordland,  and  Sogn  on 
Kalf's  left  (facing  Day  Ringson's),  42318.1;,  434o — orders  issued 
by  commanders  in  each  army  to  the  rank  and  file  how  to 
heed  the  banners  they  served  under,  401,.,  42415.21 — Svein 
Wolfson's  banners,  iii.  443  1373 — K.  Magnus  the  Good's,  4810 


298  Index  III  [ban — bar 

5<du — got  into  the  possession  of  his  son-in-law,  Hakon  Ivarson, 
I5°20-2i — l°st  mto  Harald  Hardredy's  hands  in  the  engage- 
ment on  Vener  Lake,  and  recaptured  by  the  Earl,  1 5 115  20.23  27.31 
— Harald  Hardredy's  banners,  68n.17  7o4 — the  Landwaster, 
8in.20  no10 — in  the  battle  of  the  Humber,  i6716  i68j — at 
Stamfordbridge,  1723  l7  i7713 — Morcar's  banner,  i6723 — 
Tosti's  banner,  i7219 — Magnus  Barefoot's  banner,  24i19 — 
saved  by  Vidkunn  when  Magnus  fell,24219.21 — Harald  Gilli's 
at  Fyrileif,  3i621 — K.  Ingi's  at  the  battles  of  Mouth,  Kings' 
Rock,  and  Oslo,  34925.26  4i326  4269 — Gregory  Dayson's  at 
Kings'  Rock,  4oin.15 — Hakon  Shoulderbroad's  at  the  battle 
of  Kings'  Rock,  40905 — Erling  Askew's  at  the  battle  of  Re, 
45326 — Earl  Sigurd  of  Reyr's  in  the  same  fight,  45426 — Ey- 
stein  Eysteinson's  at  the  battle  of  Re,  484^ 

BANNER-BEARER  (merkismaSr),  i.  i762  ii.  i284  23  4i223 
iii.  6812  4oi12 14 15 

BANNER-STAFF  (merkistong),  ii.  405,  4133  43o28.29  hi.  6814 

BANQUETS  (veizlur),  see  Feast. 

BARESERK  (berserkr),  a  name  given  to  Odin's  own  men-at- 
arms,  who,  Snorri  says,  '  went  without  byrnies '  (coats  of 
mail),  whence  the  inference  has  been  drawn  that  they  fought 
in  bare  shirts  (serks,  sarks),  and  so  got  this  name;  this,  it 
would  seem,  was  Snorri's  idea  of  the  origin  of  the  name,  i. 
i729-i83 — noted  bareserks:  Hildebrand  and  his  company  of 
eleven,  81 10.12;  Haki,  81 25.27  827;  Kari  of  Berdla,  io328.31;  Thorir 
Longchin,  in30 — Harald  Hairfair  manned  his  dragon-ship 
with  bareserks,  982(5.31 — bareserks  and  wolfcoats  (ulfhe^nar), 
i.e.,  men  who  instead  of  coats-of-mail  wore  jackets  of  wolf- 
skin, are  grouped  together  by  Hornklofi,  ii2l7l9.  It  may  be 
noted  that  Bear-serk  =  Bear(skin)-coat  may  possibly  come 
nearer  to  the  origin  of  the  name,  seeing  that  the  bearserks 
of  Harald  are  called  'Ulfhe^nar  =  Wolf-jackets  in  'Vatnsdcela- 
saga'  (i860),  p.  i7n.13;  moreover  the  personal  name  Bjarn- 
he^inn  =  Bear-coat  seems  most  likely  once  upon  a  time  to 
have  been  an  appellative  for  a  '  berserkr.' 

BARE-SERK'S-GANG  (berserksgangr),  described,  i.  i729-i83 

BARN,  see  House,  1. 

BARROW  (haugr),  burial  mound,  i.  420  21 — see  also  Burial  and 
Howe. 


bar — bat]  Index  III  299 

BARS  (slar),  of  red-hot  iron  to  be  walked  over  for  an  ordeal, 
iii.  2  968 

BAR-SPEAR,  see  Weapons,  Offensive,  Spear. 

BASTARD,  see  Weapons  2. 

BATH  (laug),  i.  ii76  iii.  2837  cf.  Tub. 

BATH-DAY  (laugar-dagr),  Saturday,  iii.  42o17  cf.  Wash-day. 

BATHING  (at  lauga  sik),  in  Jordan,  '  done  after  the  fashion 
of  other  palmers,'  by  Harald  Sigurdson,  iii.  7i30.31 — by  Sigurd 
Jerusalem-farer,  256^  2576.7  28218  29313.14 

BATTLES  AND  WARS,  excluding  the  story  of  the  Yng- 
lings : 

Halfdan  the  Black's  war  with  Gandalf  of  Vingulmark, 
77io-20 — witn  K.  Sigtrygg  of  Heathmar-Raumrealm,  7721-784 
— with  K.  Eystein,  brother  of  Sigtrygg,  784-794 — with  the 
sons  of  Gandalf,  8o6.26 — fight  between  K.  Sigurd  Hart  and 
Haki,  8i23.29 — Harek  Wolf's  raid  on  Haki's  house,  82u.22 

Battle  in  Hakisdale  between  Harald  Hairfair  and  Haki 
Gandalfson,  c.  861,  9i18-927 — Harald's  with  Gandalf  in  West- 
fold,  927.14 — Harald's  war  with  Hogni  and  Frodi,  sons  of 
Eystein,  and  their  allies,  Hogni  Karason  and  Hersir  Gud- 
brand,  c.  862,  92u-932 — Harald's  battle  with  K.  Gryting  in 
Orkdale,  866,  9521.29 — his  fight  with  the  kings  of  Gauldale 
and  Strind,  9627.30 — his  fight  in  Stiordale,  972.4 — fight  with 
four  Up-Thrandheim  kings,  974.13 — his  sea-fight  at  Solskel, 
868,  9928-ioo14 — his  second  battle  at  Solskel,  869,  io22.32 — 
battle  in  Staffness-bay  between  Earls  Hakon  Griotgarthson 
and  Atli  the  Slender,  870,  io48-io55 — Harald's  war  with  the 
Gautlanders,  871,  io915-no — battle  of  Hafrsfirth,  872,  111- 
ii36 — Harald's  war  in  the  Westlands,  n510-n6 — battle  in 
Orkney  between  Turf-Einar  and  Halfdan  Highleg,  890,  i2512- 
i2620  ii.  i6812.16 — battle  in  the  Elf  between  Guthorm  Harald- 
son  and  Solvi  Klofi,  i.  i28G.n — great  battle  in  Esthonia  in 
which  fell  Halfdan  the  White,  i2812.15 

Eric  Bloodaxe's  viking  wars,  908-18,  i2821-i  29.,— fight  at 
Seaham  between  the  brothers  Biorn  Chapman  and  Eric 
Bloodaxe,  i35i.23 — battle  at  Tunsberg  between  Eric  Blood- 
axe  and  his  brothers  Sigrod  and  Olaf,  934,  i44i6.26 — Eric 
Bloodaxe's  wars  in  Western  lands  and  last  battle,  c.  935-50, 

152<;-n   i53h-i54i7 

Hakon  the  Good's  war  in  Jutland,  952,  156^.33 — his  battle 


300  Index  III  [bat 

with  Danish  vikings  in  Eresound,  i573.18 — his  further  warfare 
in  Denmark,  i5721-i5810— raid  of  Eric's  sons  on  Norway, 
953,  i6on.16 — Hakon  gives  battle  to  them  at  Ogvaldsness, 
I7I-2s"I73i9 — Hakon  has  a  battle  again  with  Eric's  sons  at 
Frsedisberg,  955,  I7414-i7929 — his  fight  with  Eric's  sons  at 
Fitjar,  961,  i8o27-i87 

Harald  Greycloak  invades  Biarmland  and  fights  a  battle 
on  the  river  Dwina,  c.  965,  2i53.18 — Earl  Hakon  of  Ladir 
fights  a  battle  in  Mere  with  his  uncle  Grjotgarth,  969,  2i6l7- 
2i7G — Harald  Greycloak  fights  a  battle  and  falls  at  Neck  in 
Jutland,  970,  2382(3-23924 

Earl  Hakon  has  a  battle  with  Goldharald  in  Jutland  and 
hangs  him,  970,  240^ — Earl  Hakon  overcomes  Ragnfrod 
Ericson  in  a  battle  in  South-mere,  971,  244.^ — and  again  in 
an  engagement  at  Thingness  in  Sogn,  972,  245^246 — the 
Emperor  Otto  II.  invades  Denmark  and  is  repulsed  in  a 
battle  at  the  Danework,  974,  25318-25630 — renewing  the  fight 
he  turned  the  Danish  position  at  Sleswick  and  routed  the 
Danes,  2  5712.19 — Earl  Hakon  fights  a  battle  with  Earl  Ottar  of 
Gautland,  258^-259 — Harald  Gormson  ravages  Norway,  975, 
2^7i9-29 — battle  at  Icefirth  in  Denmark  between  Har.  Gorm- 
son and  his  son  Svein,  986,  2  7o3.19 — battle  in  Hiorungwick 
between  Earl  Hakon  and  the  Jomsburg  vikings,  986,  2  7i23- 
2  844 — Earl  Eric's  warfare  in  the  Eastlands,  3473-348n 

Olaf  Tryggvison's  war-raids  in  Britain,  26i15-26215 — battle 
of  Svold,  1000,  367io-375i6 

Olaf  the  Holy's  viking  battles  :  at  Sotisker,  ii.  616.26 — in 
Isle-sysla,  910.22 — in  Herdales  in  Finland,  io2.18 — in  Southwick 
in  Denmark,  117.0,3 — off  Friesland,  i23.15 — at  London  Bridge, 
i46-i535 — at  Ringmar-heath,  i63.25 — at  Canterbury  and  New- 
mouth,  17-184 — in  Ringfirth  in  France,  i822.34 — at  Grisla-Pool 
and  Seliapool,  i93-2os — at  Charleswater,  2011.13 — at  Warrand, 
2o27-2i13 — at  Youngford,  2819.20 — at  Wald,  292.7 — battle  off 
Nesiar,  1016,  between  Olaf  the  Holy  and  Earl  Svein  Hakon- 
son,  573-6i — battle  in  Ulfreksfirth,  10 19,  between  K.  Kono- 
fogor  and  Earl  Einar  of  Orkney,  i376.?3 — Olaf  the  Holy's  and 
K.  Onund  of  Sweden's  war-raid  on  Denmark,  1027,  3i2-3i318 
3i918.24 — battle  off  the  Holy  River,  1028,  321-323^ — fight 
between  Olaf  the  Holy  and  Erling  Skialgson,  1028,  35507- 
36o14 — battle  of  Sticklestead,  1030,  409-434 — battle  of  Soken- 


bat] 


Index  III  301 


sound  between  K.   Svein  Alfivason   and  Tryggvi   Olafson, 

i°33,  46417-465 

Magnus  the  Good's  battles:  at  Jomsburgh,  1043,  m-  3J28" 
3203 — at  Lyrshawheath,  28  Sept.,  1043,  36-37 — at  Re,  1043, 
38,.24— at  Riveroyce,  18  Dec.,  1043,  3807-43^ — at  Holyness, 
followed  up  by  a  punitive  raid,  1044,  4530-5ol7 

Harald  Sigurdson's  battles  :  many  in  Africa,  62s-642 — four 
in  Sicily,  645-7o21 — his  raids  on  Denmark,  1048,  Q48-961(! — 
1049,  9712-io24 — 1051,  i2o13-i2i7 — 1061,  1 27n-i28— battle 
of  Niz,  1062,  i35-i42lx — battle  by  the  Vener-water,  1064, 
I4913-i52n — battles  of  Scarborough,  of  the  Ouse,  and  of 
Stamford-bridge,  1066,  i6610.21  i677-i68l7  176-1794 

Battle  of  Anglesey  sound,  between  Guthorm  and  K. 
Margath,  1052,  123-124^ — battle  of  Hastings,  i8i7.33 

Magnus  Barefoot's  battle  in  Anglesey,  1098,  2  2326-2  2429 — 
battle  in  Kvaldinsisle,  1100,  2  2  60-2  2  819 — battle  of  Foxern, 
noi,  231-2323 — battle  near  Ulster,  in  which  K.  Magnus 
Barefoot  fell,  1103,  23923-24227 

Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  seafight  with  pirates  in  Spanish 
waters,  1109,  25o13.27 — battle  at  Cintra,  250^-25 18 — at  Lisbon, 
25Iio-2i — at  Alcasse,  25i22-2525 — in  Norvi-sound,  2  528.17 — at 
Forminterra,  252^-254^ — in  Iviza  and  Minorca,  25435-2553 
— at  Sidon,  n  10,  257.^-258^ 

King  Magnus  the  Blind  and  Harald  Gilli :  battle  at 
Fyrileif,  1134,  3  i531-3i724— battle  of  Biorgvin,  1135,  32i25- 
323.27— battles  at  Kings'  Rock,  3268-328n  328^-333 

King  Ingi  and  his  brothers:  battle  at  Mouth,  1137,  34901- 
35o14 — at  Crookshaw,  35o28-35i20 — battle  at  and  burning  of 
Oslo,  3529-35312 — Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon's  fights  at  Erri,  Man 
(Denm.),  and  the  Elf,  3542.13 — battle  at  Holm  the  Gray,  1139, 
36i24-36329— battle  at  Leikberg,  1153,  37327-37422— at  Apar- 

dion.  37Si3-2o — at  Hiartapoll,  3752i-32— at  Whitby,  375^- 
37610— atSkarpskerries,37612.18— atPulwyke(P),  1153,  376,,,^ 
— at  Langton,  37629.33 — battle  in  Biorgvin,  fall  of  K.  Sigurd 
Haraldson,  n 55,  3893-3907 — Ingi  and  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad:  battle  at  Kings'  Rock,  1158,  4oi3.29 — battle  in  the 
Elf,  1 159,  412-414 — fight  at  Saurbyes,  11 60,  4i93.2G — battle 
of  Oslo,  1161,  423l7-42712 — Hakon  and  Magnus  Erlingson: 
battle  in  Tunsberg,  438^-440^ — battle  at  Ve-isle,  1162,  445,,- 
447-— battle  of  Re,  11 63,  45V455i6>  XI77»  48411-485,-1 


302  Index  III  [bea — bel 

BEACON  (viti),  lighted  fires,  on  high  hills,  so  that  each  could 
be  seen  from  the  other,  to  announce  the  advent  of  a  hostile 
invasion,  first  introduced  in  Norway  by  K.  Hakon  the  Good 
(on  English  pattern?),  i.  1749.7 — kindling  of  any  such  beacons 
without  due  cause  strictly  forbidden,  i74o3-i75n 

BEARD  (skegg),  Thorgny's  so  long  that  it  lay  on  his  knees 
and  was  spread  out  all  over  his  breast,  ii.  n626.2S — growing 
after  death,  4568 10.13 

BEAVER-SKINS  (bj6rr),  ii.  26o7  29i19 

BEDESMAN  (61musuma:Sr,  alms-man),  a  beggar,  ii.  1243 

BEER-CASK  (mungats-bytta),  i.  325^ 

BELIEF  (tni),  in  one's  '  might  and  main '  characteristic  of 
certain  irreligious  heathens,  i6920.23  ii.  3956.7  4i530 

BELIEFS:  Odin  must  gain  the  victory  in  every  battle,  i224.26 — 
Odin's  laying  hands  on  people  and  giving  them  his  blessing, 
a  sure  warrant  of  victory,  1 227.31 — calling  on  Odin  in  trouble 
brought  help,  13^4 — Odin  believed  to  have  gone  after  his 
death  to  Asgarth  the  Old  to  live  for  ever,  2i25.27 — Swedes 
thought  he  showed  himself  in  dreams  before  battles,  2i29.31 
— victory  specially  the  gift  of  Odin,  2i31 — he  would  appear 
to  favourites,  inviting  them  to  come  to  him  (when  death  was 
near),  2i39 — the  height  to  which  the  column  of  smoke  arose, 
when  a  dead  body  was  burnt,  a  sign  and  measure  of  that 
person's  exalted  state  'in  heaven,'  i.  2  22.5 — treasure  buried 
with  the  dead  made  him  correspondingly  wealthy  in  the  other 
world,  2  25.6 — peace  and  plenty  of  the  year  believed  to  be 
owing  to  the  ruler  of  the  land,  2  2n.15  24.25  23^  249.15  20.21 — 
bad  harvests  and  hard  times  likewise,  2  910.25  30^4— 'wont  of 
the  Swedes  to  lay  upon  their  kings  both  plenty  and  famine,' 
669.r, — Swedes  believed  that  lukewarm  interest  in  blood- 
offerings  brought  about  hard  times,  6613.1G— the  people  of 
Thrandheim  see  in  the  failure  of  harvests  the  anger  of  the  gods 
because  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  had  converted  Halogaland  to 
Christianity  (102 1),  ii.  i938.16 

BELL  (klukka),  the  sound  of  bells  an  attractive  novelty  for 
heathen  Icelanders  at  Nidoyce,  i.  33630.31 — a  great  bell  sent 
by  K.  Olaf  Haraldson  to  the  church  of  Thingwall  in  Iceland, 
which  was  still  in  existence  when  Snorri  wrote  Olaf's  saga, 
ii.  24i15.19 — bells  ring  of  their  own  accord  round  Olaf  the 
Holy,  459^9  4600.4 — K.  Harald  Sigurdson  sends  a  bell  to  the 


bel — blo]  Index  III  303 

church  of  Thingwall  to  which  Olaf  his  brother  had  given  the 

timber,  iii.  103^3 
BELL-RINGER  (klukkari),  ii.  129^ 
BELT-SHAFT  (fetilstingr),  see  Weapons  2,  Sword. 
BENITHE  (nrSa),  to  heap  abuse  upon,  iii.  23o10 
BILLETS  (skrS),  fuel  of  wood,  ii.  44is.9 
BETROTH,  betrothal,  plighted  troth  (fastna,  festar),  i.  ii92S29 

ii.  i2  215.17  152.^ 
BEWITCH,  see  Wizardry. 
BIARKLAY  THE  ANCIENT,  see  Poems. 
BIRCH-BARK  (nasfrar),  used  for  leggings  as  protection  against 

cold  by  the  Birchlegs,  iii.  479u-i5 
BIRCHISLE-RIGHT  (Bjarkeyjarrettr),  the  law  regulating  the 

administrative  and  judiciary  affairsof  towns  and  market-places, 

especially  in  respect  of  trade  and  commerce,  bye-laws,  iii. 

273«5 
BISHOP  (biskup),  the  first  in  Norway  called  in  from  England 

by  K.  Hakon  the  Good,  i.   i6423.24 — K.  Olaf  Tryggvison's 

court  bishop,  Sigurd,  3i521.2S  33iir~332i5 — Olaf  Haraldson's 

court  bishops:  Grimkel,  ii.  6720.21   i3i4-S  454^456^  Sigurd, 

2023.4   20500.33  2074.7  2  2915.24 — Earl  Hakon  Ericson's  court 

bishop  Sigurd,  417^-419  4533^454,4 — bishops  and  bishoprics 

in  Sweden,  ii.  ii214.23 — Bishop  Magni  and  K.  Sigurd  Jerusa- 

lem-farer,  3078-3o814 — Bishop  Reinald  of  Stavangerand  Kings 

Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  and  Harald  Gilli,  308^-309,.  3245.95 — 

Bishop  Magnus  Einarson  of  Skalholt  specially  honoured  by 

K.  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  334o6-33529 — Archbishop  Eystein  of  Ni- 

doyce  and  his  relations  to  the  crown  of  Norway,  461^-464 

BISON,  see  Ships. 

BIT  (bitull),  the  rival  horse-trainers,  Alrek  and  Eric,  sons  of 
K.  Agni,  killed  each  other  with  bridles,  i.  3516 

BLAZING  FIREBRANDS  (logandi  brandar),  used  for  shoot- 
ing at  a  besieged  garrison,  iii.  2  2  810.12 

BLESSING  (bjanak,  from  Gael,  bennact,  beannachd,  Lat. 
benedictio),  ceremoniously  given  by  Odin  to  his  people  before 
starting  for  the  wars  or  on  other  business  under  his  orders, 

i-  "so 
BLOOD-BOWLS  (bl6t-bollar,  lit.  sacrificial  bowls),  i.  3679  cf. 

Hlaut. 

BLOOD-FEASTS  (bldtveizlur),  religious  festivities  in  Upper 


304  Index  III  [blo 

Thrandheim   accompanying   the  great   blood-offering  cere- 
monies, ii.  19633  i9714 

BLOOD-LETTING  (bl6«lat,  lata  bl6«),  fatal  to  Earl  Eric 
Hakonson,  ii.  274  iii.  4174 

BLOOD-OFFERINGS,  SACRIFICES  (bl6t)  : 

1.  Sweden.  Blood-offerings  of  the  '^Esir '  derive  their  origin 
from  Asgarth  (the  Ancient),  Odin's  eastern  residence,  where  his 
twelve  Diar  did  the  service  of  officiating  at  sacrifices,  i.  i215.19 
— on  coming  to  the  end  of  his  northern  migration  at  Old-Sig- 
toun  in  Sweden,  Odin  set  up  there  the  sacrificial  rite  on  the 
old  pattern  of  that  of  Asgarth,  i516.l7  i615.18  21-27 — blood-offer- 
ings were  made  to  all  Odin's  Diar  after  their  death,  and  men 
called  them  their  gods,  1921-23  22i6-ir — tney  were  upheld  by 
Niord  after  Odin's  death,  2  29.10 — at  Upsala  by  Frey  after 
Niord's  death,  2  22G — by  Freya,  when  all  the  other  Diar  had 
passed  away,  2  327.28 — the  Swedes  sacrificed  to  Frey  (the 
national  god)  for  a  long  time  after  his  death,  40  2414.15 — in 
his  cult  the  chief  ceremony  was  the  '  s6narbl6t,'  the  sacrifice 
of  the  '  S6nar-goltr,'  the  largest  boar  that  could  be  found 
(Longobard.  Sonorpair :  verres  qui  omnes  alios  verres  in 
grege  batuit  et  vincit,  Sievers,  '  Beitrage,'  xvi.  540-44)  cf. 
Helg.  HjorvarSs.,  Bugge  i76b1.5,  Hervar.  s.  ch.  10.  The 
usual  translation  atonement  sacrifice,  is  etymologically  mis- 
leading (cf.  O.E.  sunor,  herd  of  swine),  32^ — it  is  to  this 
primitive  divinity  of  the  Swedish  race  that  Odin  undertakes 
to  sacrifice  on  behalf  of  the  Swedes,  2o.23 — blood-offering 
festivals  ordained  by  Odin:  against  winter  (in  autumn)  for 
good  year,  2ol7.18 — in  midwinter  for  the  growth  of  the  earth, 
2°i8-i9 — at  summer  =  against  summer,  i.e.  in  spring,  for  vic- 
tory (sigrb!6t),  2o19.20  cf.  626.9;  for  this  seems  to  be  the  same 
festival  that  Snorri  refers  to  as  '  the  chief  blood-offering ' 
which  'should  be  at  Upsala  in  the  month  of  Goi  (Feb.- 
March);  then  should  be  done  blood-offering  for  peace  and 
victory  to  the  king,'  ii.  iii26.30— blood-offerings  in  special 
cases :  at  Upsala,  in  the  reign  of  Domald,  to  avert  persistent 
famine,  oxen  were  sacrificed  the  first  year,  human  beings  the 
second,  the  king  himself  the  third,  the  seats  of  the  gods 
being  reddened  with  his  blood,  i.  29s.33 — K.  Aun  sacrificed 
his  nine  sons  for  long  life  to  himself,  4i31.32  4218-4316 — K. 
Olaf  Treeshaver,  '  little  given  to  blood-offerings,'  i.e.,  an  un- 


BLO] 


Index  III  305 


believer,  was  in  time  of  famine  sacrificed  by  his  own  subjects 
for  the  year's  increase,  6616.19 — Olaf  the  Holy's  tax-gatherers, 
as  intruders  in  Swedish  Jamtland,  are  designated  for  blood- 
offering,  ii.  29515.16 — blood-offerings  still  in  vogue  in  Sweden 
under  Blot-Svein  and  Eric  Year-Seely,  end  of  eleventh  and 
beginning  of  twelfth  century,  iii.  285^ — only  in  Sweden  are 
sacrifices  to  the  goddesses,  disablot,  mentioned,  i.  5o32.33 

2.  Norway.  Here  the  ancient  temple  of  Mere  at  the  head 
of  Thrandheim-firth  is  the  chief  centre  of  heathen  worship 
(Odinic  cult),  although  Ladir,  first  built  by  Hairfair  about 
868,  through  the  religious  zeal  of  the  Earls  Hakon  Griot- 
garthson  and  Sigurd  his  son,  had  become  a  centre  of  worship 
for  the  men  of  Outer-Thrandheim,  already  before  the  reign 
of  Hakon  the  Good  (934-61).  For  the  blood-offerings  of 
Ladir,  see  i.  i655-i66l7  i681?.21  169-170,. — at  the  temple  of 
Mere,  in  Hakon  the  Good's  time,  blood-offerings  were  carried 
out  under  the  auspices  of  eight  lords,  respectively  representing 
the  eight  folklands  of  Thrandheim,  i.  i7o10-i7i25.  But  this 
statement  is  in  conflict  with  others  relating  to  the  sacerdotal 
constitution  of  this  temple,  the  oldest,  apparently,  in  Norway; 
for  in  Olaf  the  Holy's  time  '  twelve  men  took  upon  themselves 
to  carry  out  the  blood-feasts '  (bl6t-veizla),  (which  recalls  the 
temple  constitution  of  Odin,  Diar),  ii.  i9632.33 — the  same 
constitution  of  the  temple  service  must  have  prevailed  in  01. 
Tryggvison's  days;  for  when,  at  Mere,  he  threatens  to  offer 
the  '  noblest  of  men '  in  a  great  sacrifice  to  the  gods,  he  de- 
signates twelve  Thrandheimers  thereto,  seven  of  whom  (ace. 
to  the  best  MS.  authority)  Snorri  mentions  by  name,  adding 
that  'other  five  he  named  withal,'  i.  3i89.10  29-3iQ12 — here 
the  seasonable  arrangement  of  blood-offering  festivals  was 
the  same  as  in  Sweden:  at  winter-nights  (Oct.  14),  i.e.,  in 
autumn,  'for  the  booting  [bettering]  of  the  year,'  'to  wel- 
come the  winter,'  'cups  signed  to  the  ^Esir  after  ancient 
wont,'  'neat  were  slaughtered  there  and  horses,  and  the 
stalls  reddened  with  blood,'  ii.  i933.12  19627.2s — at  midwinter, 
for  peace  and  good  winter-season,  194131s  2931  x^% .29 — m 
spring  (at  sumri  =  towards  summer)  for  the  welcoming  of 
summer,  i9630— the  midsummer  offering  (miftsumars-bldt) 
at  Mere,  i.  3i719.23  3i810  was  obviously  to  be  a  sort  of 
show-festival,  arranged  out  of  ordinary  course,  at  01.  Trygg- 
vi.  x 


306  Index  III  [blo — bod 

vison's  special  request — blood-offerings  of  human  beings, 
frequent  in  Sweden,  are  rare  in  Norway:  Olaf  Tryggvison 
refers  to  sacrifice  of  thralls  and  evil-doers  as  a  matter  of 
custom,  i.  31924 — Earl  Hakon  is  alleged  to  have  sacrificed 
his  son  Erling  to  Odin,  for  victory  over  the  Jomsvikings, 
28337 — individual  sacrifices:  Raud  the  Strong  'busy  in 
blood-offerings,'  329^ — Sigurd  of  Thrandness  held  the  three 
blood-offering  festivals  every  year,  ii.  2i429.31 — blood-offering 
houses  (bl6t-hiis),  private  temples,  2O418.20 — 01.  the  Holy's 
punishments  for  blood-offerings,  403^ 
BLOW  (blasa),  a  technical  term  variously  applied  to  indicate 
signalling  by  trumpet:  blow  up  (blasa),  to  give  the  signal,  ii. 
36230 — blow  the  warblast  (blasa  herblastr),  to  give  signal  for 
attack,  i.  178^  ii.  57^  32i6  hi.  364  7o7.8  i6729.30  24ils  3i619 
444o(3  45 19 — blow  (people)  together  (bl.  monnum,  her,  saman), 
i.  33924.25  iii-  i3219 — blow  for  departing  (bl.  til  brottlogu),  i. 
36i24 — blow  up  for  the  gathering  together  of  ships  (bl.  til 
samlogu  skipum),  i.  3663.4 — blow  a  gathering  for  the  guard 
(bl.  til  hir^stefnu),  ii.  i3o2.3 — blow  to  a  thronged  assembly 
(bl.  til  fjolmennrar  stefnu),  ii.  i845.6 — blow  for  a  Thing 
(bl.  til  Jnngs),  ii.  20328.29  28810  iii.  8421.22  38612 — blow  the 
host  for  the  ships  (bl.  li^i  til  skipa),  ii.  35428  iii-  4689.10 — blow 
to  landwending  (blasa  til  landgongu),  iii.  i7o12 — blow  folk 
up  after  (the  leader)  (blasa  lifti  upp  eptir  .  .  .),  3oi24.25 — 
blow  the  host  to  a  husting  (blasa  IrSi  til  hustings),  4043 — 
blow  the  host  up  (for  a  muster)  (blasa  li'Si  upp),  42319.20 — 
blow  folk  out  (to  confront  an  enemy)  (blasa  li^i  lit),  20712.13 

482^2 
BOARDING  (of  a  ship)  (uppganga),  i.  37229  ii.  596  6o9 
BODY-GUARD,  COURT,  COURTMEN  (hirSmaSr,  hir$ 
coll.),  the  household  troops  of  a  king  or  magnate :  Harald 
Hairfair's,  i.  9o10  9837  99^ — Hakon  the  Good's,  i5o14 1833 — 
Earl  Hakon  Sigurdson's,  338n — Olaf  Trygg vison's,  consisting 
both  of  natives  and  foreigners,  35221.24 — Olaf  Haraldson's, 
numbering  sixty,  their  service  and  wages  being  regulated  by 
special  laws,  ii.  6728.29 — their  great  dormitory  within  the  king's 
residence,  682.3 — many  shared  dormitory  with  the  king  himself, 
I25i9-2o  °f-  1 3 320-22 — murder  of,  by  blind  K.  Rcerek's  plotting, 
i2925  31.32 — signalled  to  gather  on  an  emergency,  1303 — Thor- 
arinn  Nefjolfson  incorporated  in  K.  Olaf's  guard,  i3510 14 — 


boi — bon]  Index  III  307 

so  also  Gowk-Thorir  and  Afrafasti  on  being  baptized,  3995.31 — 
K.  Olaf  takes  frequent  counsel  with  his  body-guard  when  K. 
Knut  threatens  invasion,  34621-3478 — K.  Olaf's  guard  in  the 
centre  at  Sticklestead,  4oo14 — K.  Olaf  the  Swede's  guard  at- 
tend him  at  Upsala  Thing,  n810.11  15.16 — as  does  Earl  Rogn- 
vald's  him  on  the  same  occasion,  n819 — K.  Onund  of 
Sweden,  on  being  elected  ten  years  of  age,  surrounds  himself 
with  a  body-guard,  16504 — he  places  officers  of  it  at  Olaf 
Haraldson's  disposal  for  the  reconquest  of  Norway,  39ils.2i — 
K.  Magnus  the  Good,  eleven  years  of  age,  establishes  his 
body-guard  on  being  proclaimed  King  of  Norway,  iii.  721 — as 
Earl  of  Denmark  Svein  Wolfson  surrounds  him  with  a  body- 
guard, 3i21 — Asmund,  a  prince  of  the  blood  royal,  punished 
for  ribaldry  by  being  relegated  to  the  body-guard  of  K.  Svein 
Wolfson,  ii719 — Harald  Sigurdson's  in  his  ill-starred  raid 
on  Jutland,  9814 — Olaf  the  Quiet's  body-guard,  commanded  by 
Skuli  'the  son  of  Tosti,'  i8319.20  consisted  of  one  hundred 
(  =  120)  persons,  1943 — K.  Hakon  Magnuson's  body-guard, 
20521 — Harald  Gilli's,  3i48 — sixty  of  whom  fell  in  the  battle 
of  Fyrileif,  31704 — recruited  by  many  of  the  followers  of  Mag- 
nus the  Blind,  33410 — refuse  to  acknowledge  Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon  king  after  the  murder  of  their  lord,  3444 — they  settle 
with  Queen  Ingirid  the  succession  after  Harald's  death, 347^3 
— Magnus  the  Blind's  former  body-guard  gather  round  him 
again  on  his  leaving  the  monastery  of  Monkholm,  34910 — 
K.  Ingi  Haraldson's,  35515  38717  3885 — K.  Sigurd  Harald- 
son's, i8719  35924 — K.  Eystein  Haraldson's,  385,,).^ 
BOIL  OF  THE  THROAT  (kverkasullr),  cured  by  Olaf  the 

Holy,  ii.  38329-3843o 
BONDER,  GOODMAN  (buandi,  b6ndi),  a  free  householder, 
husbandman;  took  in  Norway  rank  in  the  social  scale  below 
the  'franklin,'  holdr,  q.v.  The  copious  references  are  due  to 
the  consideration  that  in  Norway  particularly  the  history  of 
the  country  is  so  intimately  bound  up  with  the  traditional 
rights  and  customs  of  this  originally  the  most  powerful  class 
of  society,  which  steadily  declines  in  importance  as  royal 
power  and  hierarchical  supremacy  gain  in  ascendancy,  i.  6831 

931518     963-7     I053rI06l     15-I075     32-Io80     I49l9"IS028     l6°19-23 

i6431  i659.14  i6621.22  25  i672  13  29  33  x685  12  16 18  24  i6910  25 

^Oso    l1H   12   X75l9  30   l8l2   l834   2°735   2I324  2I720    2l83-9  1416 


308  Index  III  [bon — boo 

(2i96  Iceland)  (22919  Esthonia)  24233  2730c  2765  7  12  288l7 

29°1415  29J24  32  2926  293o-10  20  294n  29524  2963  7  29726-27 
3°321  3°4l8  26  3°56  12  16  21  22  3°92  3Z°23  27  31  3  I  7v  9  17  22  26  30 
3l82  26    3J9l3  17  30   32°7  12  17  23  32I5  8  34215 U-  3324  462  3  6  7 

473  4  8 13 16  33  483  0  u  5o13  549  553  9  6^  6823  6930  7o9 14  7318 

7527  7613  16  77l3  14  17  25  29  7811  15  17  79l2  8527  868  Io6S  Io825 
IQ923  XI34  10  Il8l  22  X2°13  I2I19  X527  ^Sso  l6528  J7I24  *723 
20  27  32  33  X732  l8925  29  I9°31  I9I11  22  x935  18  24  26  x94s  21  23  27 
30  X95l  3  13  18  25  2°29  16  2°44  6  14  20524  2°°13  23  24  26  30  2O730 
2o8l  7    2°928  30    22616    23J27  29  23220  25  2334  6  10  17  23  32    2344  8 

2372o  28722  29527  338i2  24  345i3  34610  3489 18  354i2  359i5-22 
3632  25  27  364io  3652 15  36622  367!  3979  13  3980 1 21  4oo5  4oi10 
23  4°25  is  33  4°3ie  4°4i  4°61G  21  31  4097  4io29  41 12  r  22  26 
4X328  4M4  s  15-16  41621  4i 7e  23  42226  424i5  425k  19  27  426j  31 

427l3  19  22  4282  3  6  7  25  4347  4367  437l0  14  28  4385  6  439h  443is 

4465   32    447l0   30    45°27 lji-    7i7    87    12    16    19    26    27    95    2I16"242S 

2629  4731   5720  23  9813  16   I02l    IQ723  29   Io82   l  X°4  11  19  31  33   IIX29 

IX5i6  Il8s  X32n  x382i  x4o19  i4216  i455  x489  I49i6  I5324-I5S8 
J792i  x999  2°5i5  2224  243s  2488-9  3°6i5  27  3J78  3x825  29  3x9i 
3448  10  37°6  9  373i5  30  3744  4°°i  4Q231  41919-20  22  42o2g-30  42ii4 
4495  17  20  45624  30  45925  27  30  46ox  10  46i30  32  47910  15  19  23 

485l5  16 

BONDFOLK  (anau^igt  f61k),  slaves  employed  as  herds  and 

herdesses,  i.  4913.16 
BONDMAID,  see  Bondwoman. 
BOND-SLAVES  (state  of,  anauS),  i.  2293 
BONDWOMAN  (ambatt),  i.  4919 — ii.  i6o21 — iii.  I254.32 
BOOK  (b6k),  all  written  in  golden   letters,  i.e.,  the  plenary 
brought  from  the  East  to  Norway  by  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer, 
iii.  28823.29  2892  9  m8  310^3 
BOOTH  (biiS),  literally  a  dwelling,  but  specially  a  shed  gener- 
ally tilted  over  (tjolduS)  at  a  '  Thing-stead,'  where,  during  the 
business  of  the  Thing,  q.v.,  the  chief  men  with  their  retainers 
took  up  their  abode,  ii.  2431S  305^  28  3o619  3070  3o824  3093  18 
— booth  tilted,  3065  9 10 12 — dais  (pallr)  in  a  booth,  3073  31  3o8n 
BOOTH-FELLOWS  (buSarlift),  attendants  on  a  chief  during 
the  session  of  a  Thing,  when  a  booth  is  his  habitation,  ii.  3093 
BOOTH-MAN  (bii^arma'Sr),  one  of  such  an  attendance,  ii.  3095 
BOOTH-MATE  (btiSunautr),  a  fellow-inmate  of  a  booth,  ii. 

3°924-25 


bor — bul]  Index  III  309 

BORROWS  (gislar),  mutually  given  and  taken  on  peace  being 
established  between  the  kings  of  Norway  and  Denmark,  iii. 
i4S34-i49s — given  by  Hising  bonders  to  Eyst.  Haraldson, 

374«  14 — cf-  Hostage. 

BOUNDARY  disputes  between  Norway  and  Sweden :  under 
Harald  Hairfair,  i.  io512-io822  io915-no19— under  Hakon 
the  Good,  i636.0.2  ii.  2  7621.31— under  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  76^ 
78O0  11859-1193  mo  27631-27707  cf.  iii.  26305-26400 

BRAGI-CUP  (Bragafull),  a  cup  which  an  heir  should  empty  at 
a  heirship-feast  on  succeeding  to  his  father's  lordship;  the 
ceremony  described,  i.  5812.28 

BRAND  (dill),  an  indelible  mark,  Lat.  stigma,  iii.  i6i14 

BRASS  (eir),  more  correctly  copper,  iii.  309^ 

BREAD  (brauS),  baked  in  heated  ovens,  iii.  i2  515.29 

BREAD-BASKET  (brauS-kass),  i.  325^ 

BRIBE  (muta),  ii.  3o720 

BRIBERY  by  Knut  the   Mighty,  ii.  3293.00  3352r33620  27-34 

342.20-343io  37327-379oi 
BRIDAL  ESCORT,  described,  11.  i523.8 13.24 
BRIDAL  FEAST  (veizla,  brullaup),  to  drink  a  (drekka),  11. 

BRIDGE  (bni),  across  water,  111.  42028  45326 
BRIDGES  (bryggjur): 

1.  Piers  at  which  ships  could  be  berthed  (also,  less  ac- 
curately, translated  'gangways'),  i-   i38iM8  33522  24  "•  *9529 

26425  00  hi-  327i9  29  4°°26  4OI9  is  4*72  12  19  43930 

2.  Gangways,  movable,  carried  on  board   ship,  11.   265,7 

iii.  4oi10 
BRIMSTONE  (brennisteinn),  mixed  with  wax,  used  for  tinder, 

iii.  6417 

BROTH  (so3),  of  horseflesh  drunk  at  blood-offerings,  1.  16907 
—of  a  sodden  dog  (hundssoS)  cast  upon  the  tomb  of  King 
Eystein  Haraldson  to  put  a  stop  to  miracles  taking  place 
there,  iii.  3961 

BULL  (griSungr),  fed  up  for  sacrifice,  grew  wild  and  killed 
many  people,  King  Egil  of  Upsala  the  last,  i.  452s"4616 — re- 
presenting the  guardian  spirit  of  the  family  of  Thord  the 
Yeller,  in  Western  Iceland,  2  698.10 

BULL'S-HORN  (dy'rs  horn),  drinking  horn,  used  when  Bragi's 
cup  was  emptied,  i.  5823.28 


310  Index  III         [bur — by-m 

BURG  (borg),  a  fortress  made  of  turf  and  timber  with  a  mote 
round  it  in  Kvaldin's-isle,  iii.  2  2  72.3  cf.  Sarpsburg — burgs 
distinguished  from  castles,  2  595.6 

BURIALS :  burning  (brenna)  the  dead,  ordained  by  Odin,  i. 
2o6 — the  dead  should  be  burnt  on  a  bale-fire  together  with 
some  of  their  chattels,  standing  stones  being  set  up  for 
monuments  over  them,  4^-jg  2o5.n — the  ashes  were  carried 
out  to  sea,  or  buried  in  the  earth,  a  mound  being  raised  over 
noble  lords,  and  standing  stones  over  men  of  fame,  2on.16 — 
the  higher  the  smoke  rose  the  more  exalted  '  in  heaven'  would 
be  the  dead,  and  the  richer,  the  more  treasure  was  buried 
with  him,  2  23.6 — burning  the  dead  on  a  pyre  on  board  ship, 
a  very  famous  funeral  rite  enacted  on  himself  by  K.  Haki  of 
Sweden,  4013.24 — burning  of  Odin,  22^ — of  Vanland,  2719 — 
of  Domar,  3o12.26 — of  Agni,  3414 — Burning  age  (brunaold) 
the  period  during  which  the  dead  were  disposed  of  by  burn- 
ing their  bodies,  4l7.22 — lasted  in  Sweden  and  Norway  long 
after  the  mound  age  came  into  vogue,  429.30 — Mound  age 
(haugaold),  the  era  when  laying  the  bodies  of  the  dead  in  a 
barrow  or  mound  (haugr)  came  into  fashion,  originated  in 
Sweden  with  Frey  being  laid  in  barrow  at  Upsala,  419.22  2  313.22 
— and  in  Denmark  when  Dan  the  Proud  was  laid  in  mound 
with  all  his  kingly  raiment,  armour,  horse  and  saddle  gear, 
besides  plenteous  wealth,  423.29 — burying  one's  self  alive  in  a 
ho  we  with  a  chosen  company  and  plentiful  store  of  victuals  and 
drink,  an  alternative  preferred  by  K.  Herlaug  of  Naumdale 
to  giving  himself  into  Hairfair's  power,  9720.29 — Earl  Sigurd 
of  Orkney  buried  in  a  howe  at  Oikel-bank  in  Scotland,  n628 
— fallen  warriors  buried  in  ships  with  mounds  heaped  over 
them  at  Frasdisberg,  i8o5.n — Hakon  the  Good  buried  in  a 
great  howe,  all  armed  with  the  best  of  his  array,  but  with  no 
wealth  beside,  and  his  men  spake  such  words  over  his  grave 
as  heathen  men  had  custom,  wishing  him  welfare  to  Valhall, 
i8825.30 — Halfdan  the  Black's  body  divided  and  laid  in  mound 
in  four  separate  folklands,  8623-875 

BURIED  TREASURE  (jarSfe),  where  hidden,  known  by 
Odin,  i.  i97 

BUTTER-KEG  (smjor-hlaupr,  cf.  prov.  Engl,  leap,  basket),  i. 

325i9 
BY-MEN  (byjar-menn),  towns-folk,  iii.  400^ 


byr — cav]  Index  III  3 1  I 

BYRXY  (brynja),  see  Weapons,  i,  defensive. 

CABLE  (ka^all),  drawn  between  two  ships,  and  pulled  in  when 
a  third  craft  passed,  so  as  to  capsize  it,  ii.  3o30 — (tengsl) 
whereby  ships  where  lashed  together  in  action,  6o12 

CALDRON  (ketill),  in  which  the  flesh  of  sacrificed  animals 
was  cooked  over  fires  on  the  floor  of  the  temple,  i.  i6522.25 

CALTROPS,  see  Weapons,  2,  offensive. 

CAMP-FOLLOWERS:  many  staff-carles  (stafkarlar),  i.e.,  old 
men  leaning  on  sticks,  followed  either  army,  as  well  as  poor 
people,  who  begged  their  meat,  at  Sticklestead,  ii.  44415.1(5 

CANDLE  (kerti),  for  use  in  holy  worship,  i.  33% — a  large, 
given  by  thralls  in  Jamtland  as  song-reward  to  a  guarded 
prisoner,  ii.  29712 — light  of  a,  seen  burning  over  the  spot 
where  the  body  of  Olaf  the  Holy  was  secreted  at  Stickle- 
stead, 44715.2o — candles  light  of  their  own  accord  on  the  altar 
where  Olaf  the  Holy  was  enshrined,  46o3.4  cf.  4599.12 

CANDLE-PAGE,  CANDLE-SWAIN  (kertisveinn),  servant  in 
the  king's  court,  whose  duty  it  was  to  hold  a  lighted  candle 
before  the  king's  table  during  meals,  and  while  drinking  went 
on,  hi.  i9310  289^ 

CANON-LAW  (kristinn  rettr),  for  Norway  framed  by  Olaf  the 
Holy,  with  the  assistance  of  his  court  bishop  Grimkel,  ii. 

68lS-20 

CAPITULATION,  of  a  garrison,  having  to  run  the  gauntlet 

on  evacuating  the  fort :  as  they  went  out  each  of  them  was 

whipped  with  twigs  (er  feir  gengu  lit,  pa.  var  hverr  Jjeira  sleginn 

limahogg),  iii.  2  2812.15 
CARTING  (aka),  carting  corn,  ii.  35s  2  7914 
CASK  OF  MEAD  (mjaSar-bytta),  ii.  i264  i2  715 
CASTING   OUT  of  children   (at  bera  lit  born),  a  heathen 

usage  in  Iceland,  permitted  after  the  conversion  of  the  island 

to  Christianity,  ii.  697.8 
CASTLE  (kastali),  a  great,  erected  by  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 

farer  at  Kings'  Rock  of  turf  and  stone,  with  a  great  dyke 

(mote,  di'ki)  round  it,  iii.  278.^  32732  32814  329^  3303  33i15 

33 2-    Cf.  Burg. 
CATTLE,  neat,  oxen  (naut)  slaughtered  for  heathen  sacrifices, 

i.  i6515  ii.  i938.10 
CAVALRY  (riddarar,  hestalrS),  in  Kaisar  Otto's  army  invading 

Denmark,  i.  255^ — in  Harald  Godwinson's  army  at  Stam- 


3 1 2  Index  III  [cav — che 

ford-bridge,  iii.  i7i25  i7219.22  i733.5 — in  the  heathen  army  at 
Pezina,  43oa 

CAVE  (hellir),  in  the  island  of  Forminterra,  occupied  as  a 
stronghold  by  Moorish  pirates,  iii.  252^-25327 — in  the  pre- 
cipices on  Cleughfirth  in  Halogaland,  winter  abode  of  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  and  his  band,  35623.24 

CENSER  (gld^ar-ker),  used  for  testing  the  inflammability  of 
Olaf  the  Holy's  hair  cut  after  death,  ii.  45618.30 

CHAFFER-FARINGS  (kaupferSir),  merchant  voyages,  ii.  8o28 
8l26-83n  258x2-265  iii.  3385 

CHAINS,  of  gold  and  silver  (vi^jar  or  silfri  ok  gulli),  made 
for  the  dog-king  Saur,  i.  i62x — of  iron  (jam),  drawn  across 
Stocksound  to  stop  thoroughfare  from  the  lake  Malar,  ii. 
7u-i5 — °f  iron  (jarn-rekendr),  across  the  strait  of  the  Golden 
Horn  at  Constantinople  in  Harald  Sigurdson's  time,  iii.  752.3 
— of  iron,  with  wooden  spars  (sumt  me^  vi^um),  laid  across 
the  bight  at  Bergen  to  bar  Harald  Gilli's  approach  to  the 
town,  3221-4  2>2Zi 

CHAIR,  STOOL  (st611),  provided  at  the  open-air  Thing  of 
Upsala  for  the  king  and  the  chief  men,  ii.  1 1815  18  21  28 

CHALICE  (kalekr),  belonging  to  the  cathedral  of  Skalaholt, 
formerly  a  drinking  cup,  '  board-beaker '  (bor^ker),  in  K. 
Harald  Gilli's  possession,  and  presented  by  him  to  bishop 
Magnus  Einarson,  iii.  33512.15  336^ 

CHAMPION-DRINKING,  see  Drinking. 

CHAMPIONS  (kappar),  warriors  peerless  in  skill  of  arms, 
seem  to  have  been  the  class  of  men  who  afterwards,  in  Harald 
Hairfair's  army,  went  under  the  names  of  Bareserks  and  Wolf- 
coats;  twelve  such  in  sea-king  Haki's  company  (Harald's 
bareserks  were  also  twelve),  i.  3810.19  25.27  4°i  45i7 

CHAPEL  (kapella),  erected  to  Olaf  the  Holy  in  a  street  in 
Constantinople  where  he  had  appeared  to  his  brother  Harald 
and  promised  him  delivery  from  prison,  iii.  7318.20 

CHAPMEN  (kaupmenn),  i.  2290  ii.  3458  423^  iii.  iQ214  32722.25 
— merchant  men  (kaupskip),  299^  3283  6 

CHARACTER  READING,  an  accomplishment  possessed 
by  Dale  Redson  of  Eastern-Dales,  Norway,  ii.  34o14.29  31- 

34i2 
CHEAPING,    Chippingham,    Cheapingstead    (kaupangr),   the 
market  place,  the  trading  town,  a  current  term  for  Nidoyce 


che — chr]  Index  III  313 

from  the  days  of  Olaf  Haraldson,  ii.  275^  302,5  454.^  4667 — 
iii-  7is  35-6  I0422  2o6i4  21  2°7i3  2o8i  2I°is  233-24  237ao  2387 
26920  275i5  284s  3155-6  34825  35730  359i5  20  36914  37°o  39*20 
25-26  41530  4i610  4382i  44ioi  447n  20  48i18 
CHEAPING-SHIPS  (kaupskip),   merchant   men,  1.  254.^  in. 

44  I  24  4425 

CHEAPING-STEADS  (kaupstaSir),  rose  much  in  Norway  and 

flourished  in  the  reign  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  i929.10 
CHEAPING  VOYAGES  (kaupferSir),  i.  289s  n  3oofl  u 
CHECK,  v.  (sksekja),  of  a  move  in  the  game  of  chess:  '  skaek^i 
(skaka^i)  riddara  af  konungi,' not,  as  translated,  'checked 
the  king's  knight,'  but  gave  check  and  took  the  king's  (Knut's) 

knight,  ii.  326is-i9 

CHESS  (skak-tafl),  played  by  King  Knut  and  his  brother-in- 
law,  Sept.  29th,  1028,  ii.  3265.7  X7_21 

CHESSBOARD  (taflborS),  ii.  3266"21 

CHEST,  1  (arka),  an  ark,  a  large  chest  on  feet,  ii.  29720.21 — 2. 
(kista),  a  portable  chest,  i.  28o24.26  iii.  394x — 3.  (lik-kista,  or, 
shorter,  kista),  lyke-chest,  a  coffin,  ii.  44725  27  29  4485  6  2i 

455i4  16  20  21  . 

CHIPS  (spsenir,  sing,  spann),  whittled  from  a  wooden  pin  on 

a  Sunday  by  Olaf  the  Holy,  burnt  by  himself  in  the  hollow 

of  his  hand  for  penance,  ii.  3855.20 

CHOIR  (k6rr),  the  chancel  in  a  church,  ii.  i3is  32710  hi.  3ion 

4275 
CHOIR-COPE  (kantara-kapa),  cf.  A.S.  cantercappa,  a  bishop's 

cope,  ii.  20503 

CHRISTIANITY  (kristni),  K.  Athelstan  had  Hakon  the  Good 

christened  in  England,  and  he  was  a  good  Christian,  i.  i4i4.5 

13 — also  Hakon's  brother,  Eric  Bloodaxe,  with  his  wife  and 

children,  i5222.23  2oi12.13 

Propagation  of: 

1.   In  Norway.    Hakon  the  Good  has  to  keep  secret  his 

Christian  observances,  all  his  subjects  being  heathen,  i.  i6326- 

1647 — his  endeavours  to  convert  the  people  of  no  avail,  i64n- 

r7i25 
The  sons  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  broke  temples  and  images,  but 

made  no  converts,  i.  2oi12.18 

Harald  Gormsson  of  Denmark,  having  become  King  of 

Norway  after  Harald  Greycloak,  takes  active  interest  in  con- 


314  Index  III  [chr 

verting  the  Norwegians,  but  when  Svein,  his  son,  succeeded, 
a  general  lapse  back  to  paganism  followed,  i.  3or19-3025 

Olaf  Tryggvison  converts  the  people  of  the  Wick,  i.  30212- 
3°3i3 — of  Rogaland,  304^-30507 — ofHordland,  3063-307 — of 
Sogn,  Firths,  South-Mere,  Raumsdale,  308^-30^ — of  North- 
Mere,  3oo5.6 — of  Ringrealm,  3io30.31  3n12.l7 — of  Thrand- 
heim,  31 85-32 118— of  Halogaland,  324-334,, 

The  Earls  Eric  and  Svein  Hakonsons,  though  pagans 
themselves,  let  every  one  do  as  he  liked  with  regard  to 
Christianity,  ii.  7322.24 

Olaf  the  Holy  has  a  court  bishop  and  court  clergy,  ii. 
6720-21 — ne  frames  church  law  for  Norway  by  the  counsel  of 
the  bishop  and  other  clerks,  6818.22 — ultimately  the  '  bonders' 
submitted  to  these  laws,  6822.24 — these  laws  he  has  read  out 
at  every  public  assembly  in  10 17  on  his  progress  south  along 
the  land,  ii.  7318.20 — when  he  began  his  reign,  the  maritime 
folklands  were  Christian,  but  ignorant  of  canon  law,  while 
inland  the  people  were  all  heathen,  7325-743 — reasons  why 
Christianity  sped  better  in  the  Wick  than  elsewhere  in  Nor- 
way, 8o20-8i2 — Olaf's  ways  with  stubborn  heathens,  7332-743 
I02i-27 — -King  Rcerek's  disbelief  in  the  gospel,  ^2>xvj%\ — Olaf 
finds  Christianity  in  a  most  backward  state  from  Upper 
Thrandheim  to  Halogaland,  i8914.20 — has  the  law  of  the 
church  promulgated  in  these  parts  accompanied  by  the  in- 
fliction of  severe  penalties  where  called  for,  191^ — Haloga- 
land christened  again,  i9212.14 — all  Thrandheim  converted, 
I97is"I9^4 — Gudbrandsdale  christened,  2oo19-2093 — Heath- 
mark,  Thotn,  Hadaland,  Ringrealm,  Raumrealm,  Sol-isles, 
converted,  2096-2io8 — Vors,  23i22-2324 — Valdres,  23215-2344 
— Olaf  ready  to  accept  military  service  at  Sticklestead  from 
robbers  and  waylayers  provided  they  let  themselves  be  bap- 
tized, 3948-n  24"395is  3995-31 — ne  turns  away  five  hundred  who 
refused  baptism,  39803-3995 

2.  Denmark.  Keisar  Otto  converts,  at  the  point  of  the 
sword,  K.  Harald  Gormson  and  his  host  to  Christianity,  a.d. 
975»  i-  253i8-23  255n-25728— Harald's  way  of  converting  his 
subjects,  30i19.25 

3.  Sweden.  Snorri  is  silent  about  propagation  of  Christi- 
anity in  Sweden,  knowing  only  the  military  conversion  of  the 
Smallands  by  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer,  iii.  284^-2853  23.25 


chr — chu]  Index  III  315 

4.  Orkney,  Shetland,  Faroe:  Olaf  Tryggvison  converts 
Earl  Sigurd,  son  of  Lodver,  and  his  Orkney  subjects  to 
Christianity,  i.  29003-29 is  ii.  i69}9.20 — Olaf  the  Holy  keenly 
interested  in  the  progress  of  Christianity  in  all  these  islands, 

6915-17 

5.  Iceland.  Olaf  Tryggvison's  measures  for  converting  the 

people:  mission  of  Thangbrand,  i.  323s-25  33?i7\34?i0—  Ice- 
landers baptized  in  Norway,  33414-338s — Christianity  made 
law  in  Iceland,  525  617  73  4  3541025 — 0laf  tne  Holy  earnestly 
interested  in  Christianity  in  Iceland,  ii.  69^ 

6.  Greenland.  LeifEricson,  christened  by  Olaf  Tryggvison, 
undertakes  to  convert  Greenland,  i.  34110.00  3 5 53.17 

CHRIST'S  SCATHE  (kristni-spell),  offence  against  Christian 

ordinances,  such  as  eating  horseflesh,  casting  out  children, 

etc.,  ii.  68,.,  696.9 
CHRIST'S  MEN  (Krists  men),  part  of  the  watchword  in  Olaf 

the  Holy's  army  at  Sticklestead,  ii.  4oo31  42  718 
CHURCHES  (kirkjur),  first  erected  in  Norway  by  Hakon  the 

Good,  i.  i6428.29 — three  of  these  burnt  down  in  Northmere 

by  the  incensed  heathens,  i7o,6.28 — localities  where  churches 

are  mentioned : 

Agdirness:  church  erected  there  by  K.  Eystein  Magnusson, 
hi.  263ll.12 

Alburg,   Jutland:    Mary's  church,   burial  place  of  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon,  iii.    36720.25 — and  of  Olaf  the  Unlucky, 

477i7-23 

Biorgvin  :  Apostles'  church,  erected  within  the  '  King's  garth ' 

by  K.  Eystein  Magnusson,  iii.  263s.9 

Christ's  church  'the  Old,'  'Ancient,'  'the  Old  out  on  the 
Holme,'  the  earliest  cathedral,  a  wooden  fabric,  com- 
pleted by  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  i92l7.ls — burial  place 
of  K.  Harald  Gilli  and  his  son,   K.   Sigurd,   34422-23 

3907-8  ,       L 

Christ's  church,  the  later  cathedral,  a  great  stone  church, 

'  reared  from  the  ground  sill  by  Olaf  the  Quiet,  but  little 

was  done  of  it'  in  his  lifetime,  I9215.l7 
Michael's  church  on  Nordness,  burial  place  of  the  hanged 

bishop  Reinald,  32422.23 
Nicolas  church,  4i818 
Olaf's  church,  K.  Harald  Gilli  vowed  to  build  a  church 


316  Index  III  [chu 

dedicated  to  Olaf  the  Holy,  if  he  should  gain  the  day 
over  K.  Magnus  the  Blind,  Jan.  7,  1135,  32  212.15 
Constantinople:   Olaf's  church,  built  and  maintained  by 
Veerings,    to    which    ultimately   Olaf   the    Holy's    sword 
1  Hneitir'  found  its  way,  iii.  429l7.24  431^5 
Olaf's  chapel,  7315.20 
Force,  the  church  of,  burial  place  of  K.  Eystein  Haraldson, 

iii-  39521-25 
Gudbrandsdale:    Gudbrand-a-Dales   being   converted   by 

Olaf  the  Holy,  builds  a  church  '  there  in  the  Dales,'  ii. 

2092.3 

Iona  :  Columbkill  church  the  Little  =  St.  Oran's  chapel  visited 

by  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  iii.  2  2  215.23 

Kings'-Rock :  Castle  church,  see  the  following: 

Cross  church  (Kross  kirkja),  a  wooden  building  erected  by 

K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  within  the  castle  of  the  town, 

consecrated  1127,  rich  in  ornaments  and  relics,  among 

which  was  a  chip  of  the  Holy  Cross,  brought  by  the  king 

from  Jerusalem,  iii.  2784.6  3O920-3io37  3255  3279 — robbed 

and  destroyed  by  Wends,  3327.8  26.31 

London:  Olaf's  church,  iii.  i2  610162225 

Paul's  church,  burial  place  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  iii. 

15721 
Most  (Island  of):    Olaf  Tryggvison  builds  there  his  first 

church  in  Norway,  i.  29i12 
Nidoyce:  Christ's  church,  the  Cathedral. — Thorgils  Hal- 
mason  and  his  men,  on  bringing  the  body  of  Olaf  the  Holy 
to  Nidoyce,  waked  it  night-long  in  a  waste  outhouse  on 
Saurlithe,  ii.  44822.29 — before  the  dawn  of  next  day  they 
had  moved  further  up  along  the  river,  and  buried  it  in  a 
sandhill,  where  it  lay  from  Aug.  1030,  till  the  next  summer, 
when  it  was  dug  up  and  buried  at  Clement's  church — here, 
on  Aug.  3,  103 1,  the  translation  of  the  remains  of  Olaf  to 
the  high  altar  took  place — where  the  body  had  first  been 
buried  (in  the  sandhill)  a  well  sprang  up  and  was  built 
over — that  building  soon  gave  way  to  a  chapel,  the  altar 
of  which  occupied  the  spot  where  the  saint's  grave  had 
been,  44833-4494 45 5m5  45  75.n— the  chapel  again  gave  place 
to  Christ's  church  '  the  Ancient,'  erected  by  Olaf  the  Quiet, 
the  altar  of  which  stood  where  the  altar  of  the  chapel  had 


CHU] 


Index  III  317 


been,  45716.1ir  iii-  1959-14 — on  trie  occasion  of  the  consecra- 
tion of  this  church,  K.  Olaf's  shrine  was  removed  thither 
from  Clement's  church  and  placed  over  the  high  altar, 
I95i4-i6 — Archbishop  Eystein's  great  minster  which  now 
standeth  {i.e.  his  extension  of  the  cathedral)  left  undis- 
turbed the  position  of  the  altar,  ii.  45712.16 — the  spear  with 
which  King  Olaf  fought  at  Sticklestead  '  now  standeth  be- 
side the  altar  of  Christ's  church,'  4I3io-n — the  burial  place 
of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  2O210.12;  of  K.  Olaf  Magnusson, 
2 7 73-12 >  °f  K.  Eystein  Magnusson,  2848.9;  of  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad,  4470-i2 

Clement's  church,  the  first  church  built  in  Nidoyce  by  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  restored  by  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  6429.30 — his 
body  removed  from  the  sandhill  where  it  had  been  first 
buried,  and  laid  in  earth  in  Clement's  church,  455n.i7 — 
twelve  months  and  five  days  after  the  death  of  the  king, 
it  was  translated  to  the  high  altar  in  this  church,  455i7" 
457., — (here  K.  Magnus  the  Good  placed  the  shrine  he 
made  for  his  father,  iii.  i63.23) — the  bell  called  Glad 
given  to  the  church  by  K.  Olaf,  3524.26 — K.  Magnus  the 
Good  laid  in  earth  at  Clement's  church,  where  then  was 
the  shrine  of  his  father,  935.7  2o622 
Gregory's  church,  built  by  Harald  Hardredy,  iii.  io5n.12 
John's  church,  iii.  48i17 
Margaret's  church,  built  of  stone  by  the  Drinking  Guild  in 

Nidoyce,  iii.  19293.04 
Mary's  church,  reared  by  Harald  Hardredy  on  'the  Mel,' 
nigh  where  the  body  of  K.  Olaf  had  lain  in  earth  the 
first  winter  after  his  fall,  iii.   io430-io53 — broken  down 
by  Archbishop  Eystein,  io53.6 — the  holy  relic  of  K.  Olaf 
removed  to  this  church  when  it  was  finished,  io50.8 — the 
burial  place  of  Harald  Hardredy,  i8418.20 — by  the  north 
door  of  this  church  were  cut  in  the  stone  marks  show- 
ing the  height  of  the  three  kings,  Olaf  the  Holy,  Harald 
Hardredy  his  brother,  and  the  latter's  grandson,  Magnus 
Barefoot,  23323.32 
Nicolas  church,  built  by  K.  Eystein  Magnusson  within  the 
•  king's  garth,'  and  done  with  much  care,  both  of  carvings 
and  other  work,  iii.  26313.lt, 
Olaf's  church,  built  on  the  spot  where  stood  the  waste  out- 


31 8  Index  III  [cle — col 

house  within  which  the  body  of  Olaf  was  waked  by 

Thorgils  Hal  mason  and  his  men  the  night  after  it  arrived 

to  Nidoyce,  ii.  457]7.20 — the  building  of  it  begun  by 

Magnus  the  Good,  and  completed  by  Harald  Hardredy, 

iii.    io421.24  26.28 — to    this    church   was    removed   from 

Clement's  church  the  holy  relic  of  St.  Olaf,  and  here  it 

was  kept  while   Mary's  church 'was  building,  io56.8 — 

probably  the  body  of  Magnus  the  Good  was  moved  here 

from  Clement's  church  at  the  same  time,  for  here,  beside 

the  tomb  of  K.  Magnus,  were  buried  Einar  Thambar- 

skelfir  and  Eindrid  his  son,  1049,  no25.28 

Oslo:  Hallward's  church,  burial  place  of  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 

farer,  iii.  3io10.12 — burnt  down  by  Danes,  3535 — rebuilt,  it 

received  the  body  of  K.  Magnus  the  Blind,  36726.27  and  of 

K.  Ingi  Haraldson,  4273.6 — used  for  a  council-chamber  by 

K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  and  his  party,  42  7l7.19 

Roskild:  Lucius  church,  richly  endowed  by  K.  Knut,  in 

atonement  for  the  murder  of  his  brother-in-law,  Earl  Wolf, 

«•  32 76-23  .  ,  .  ,     ^ 

Sarpsburg:  Mary's  church,  reared  within  the  castle  by  Olaf 

the  Holy,  ii.  792 
Thingwall  in   Iceland:    (Olaf's  church),   built  of  timber 
given  for  the  purpose  by  Olaf  the  Holy,  wherewith  he  also 
sent  'a  great  bell  which  is  there  still,'  ii.  24i15.10 — K.  Harald 
Hardredy  also  presented  a  bell  to  this  church,  iii.  103^3 
Vagar:  church  erected  by  K.  Eystein  Magnusson,  iii.  263^.^ 
Valdres  :  churches  built  and  consecrated  about  the  district 
by  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  2  349.10 
CLEARING  WOODS  (rySja  mork,  r.  markir),  K.  Olaf  Tree- 
shaver's  method  of  colonization,  i.  6514.18 — a  task  which  Erling 
Skialgson  set  his  freedmen  that  they  might  set  up  a  house  of 
their  own,  ii.  2  522.25 
CLOISTER  (klaustr),  monastery  (at  Holme,  in  Thrandheim 

bay),  iii.  3345  34828  30 
CLOTH,  fit  for  royal  robes  of  state  (pell),  obtained   from 

Novgorod,  ii.  8210.18 
CLOTHES,  see  Raiment— Robes. 
CLUB  (klubba,  rudda),  a  weapon  of  attack,  always  borne  by 

Kolbein  the  Strong,  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  attendant,  ii.  2o69.10 
COLLAR  (men),  of  precious  metal  round  Jomali's  neck,  robbed 


col — cor]  Index  III  3 1 9 

by  Karli  of  Longisle,  ii.  26215.22 — claimed  by  Thorir  Hound 
it  becomes  the  cause  of  Karli's  death  and  falls  into  Thorir's 
possession,  26331-264n  265^3  28910.25 
COLONIZATION :— of  wild  woodlands  in  Sweden  by  K.  Road- 
Onund,  i.  5417-o6 — likewise  by  a  number  of  younger  sons  of 
kings  of  Sweden  from  the  days  of  Agni  to  those  of  Ingiald 
Evilheart,  5714.23 — of  Vermland,  by  Olaf  Treeshaver,  65n.21 
666 — by  Norwegians  of  Iceland  and  the  Faroes,  partly  of 
Shetland,  11322-04 — of  Iamtland,  113^  i6219.24  1634.5  8.19  ii. 
2763-12 14-is  cf-.j~n-  26325-26422— of  Helsingland,  i.  ii31(5 16225.29 

Cf-    l636.g  21-22  u-   27°12-14  19-20 

COMBING  HAIR  (grerSa  har),  the  famous  act  by  Rognvald  of 
Mere  on  Harald  Hairfair,  whose  hair  had  not  been  cut  or 
combed  for  ten  years,  i.  1 1 76 

CONFIRM  (biskupa),  to  perform  the  ecclesiastical  act  of  con- 
firmation ;  in  the  case  of  K.  Olaf's  converts  to  Christianity  on 
the  eve  of  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  confirmation  followed 
immediately  on  baptism,  ii.  39928 

CONSECRATE  (vigja),  'hallow'":  Jon  Byrgison  consecrated 
first  Archbp.  of  Nidoyce,  1152,  iii.  37929.30 — Eystein,  his 
successor,  45615 — Bishop  Brand  to  Holar,  46i21 — Cross 
church,  Kings'  Rock,  consecrated,  30934  3io6.r 

COOK  (steikari),  i.  3i6x 

COPPER-PENNIES  (eir-penningar),  current  in  Sweden  in 
the  days  of  Frey,  were  poured  into  his  howe  through  one 
of  the  three  windows  in  it,  in  payment  of  Frey's  scat,  i. 

2322 

CORN  (korn),  grown  all  over  Norway  up  to  Halogaland ;  great 
failure  of,  in  the  reign  of  the  sons  of  Gunnhild,  i.  2i816.22 — 
plenteous  harvests  of,  when  Earl  Hakon  succeeded  to  the 
rule  of  Norway,  24230.34 — cutting  of,  and  harvesting  described, 
"•  35tio  cf-  279i4-i5 — great  scarcity  of,  through  northern 
Norway  in   Olaf  the  Holy's   reign,   i9225.29  2io29.30  2ii4.n 

21512-13  25-27  so'2 163  30-32  2 1 79  33-21922— corn  packed  in  skin 
(belgr),  iii.  2i77 

CORONATION  (konungs  vigsla),  Harald  Godwinson's  in 
St.  Paul's,  iii.  i5816.l7 — performed  for  the  first  time  in  Nor- 
way, 1 165,  when  Archbishop  Eystein  crowned  K.  Magnus 
Erlingson,  iii.  4625-464. 

CORPSE-FARE  (lfkferB),  the  journey  of  Thorgils  Halmason 


320  Index  III  [cor — cou 

with  the  dead  body  of  K.  Olaf  the  Holy  from  Sticklestead 
down  to  Nidoyce,  ii.  4473-4497 

CORSAIRS  (kussari,  Low  Lat.  cursarius),  pirates  of  the  Medi- 
terranean, iii.  6o7 

COT-CARLE  (kotkarl),  a  cottier,  iii.  2  8o30 

COT-STEAD  (biikot),  a  small  farmstead,  iii.  1435 

COUNCIL  (raSuneyti),  appointed  by  K.  Magnus  Barefoot  for 
his  young  son  Sigurd  as  Earl  of  Orkney,  iii.  2  2i19 

COUNCIL-CHAMBER,  thing-house  (stofa,  jnnghus),  one  of  the 
principal  buildings  at  a  king's  court,  ii.  684  7o.29  iii.  ioqi7.20  26  29 

COUNTY  (hera^),  administrative  division  (undefined)  in  Den- 
mark, iii.  2828 

COUNTY-KINGS  (hera^s-konungar),  in  Sweden  under  K. 
Road-Onund,  i.  55m0 

COURT  (hirS),  see  Body-guard. 

COURT-COUNCILS  (stefna,  hirSstefna),  assemblies  of  the 
king's  bodyguard  summoned  by  himself  and  held  under  his 
own  presidency  in  the  council-chamber,  ii.  684.5  22516  22615 

COURT-CUSTOMS,  see  Court-manners. 

COURT-HALL  (hirSstofa),  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's,  with  a  door  at 
either  end,  the  king's  high-seat  being  placed  up  against  the 
middle  of  one  of  the  long  walls  of  it,  and  the  other  (lower) 
high-seat  in  the  same  manner  up  against  the  other  wall,  ii. 
67i7-20  22-23 — free  n§ht  ancl  manslaughter  in  K.  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad's  court  hall,  iii.  4  x  530-33   Cf.  House — holl. 

COURT-MANNERS (hirS-srSir,  hirS-venja), Norwegian:  under 
Olaf  Haraldson  (the  Holy):  his  hall,  disposal  of  seats,  ale 
drunk  by  lit  fires,  court  appointments,  body-guard,  'guests,'  a 
division  of  the  guard  subject  to  special  laws,  housecarles, 
thralls,  dormitory  for  body-guard,  council-chamber,  ii.  6710- 
685 — K.  Olaf  s  personal  habits :  rising,  dressing,  attendance 
at  church,  transaction  of  public  affairs,  688.14 — under  K.  Olaf 
the  Quiet:  the  high-seat  in  the  hall  removed  from  the  middle 
of  the  long  wall  up  to  the  high  dais  at  the  upper  end;  ovens 
in  hall  introduced  by  him,  and  the  custom  of  covering  the 
floor  with  rushes  in  winter  as  well  as  in  summer,  iii.  1923.3 — 
K.  Olaf  interests  himself  much  in  the  guild  life  of  Norway, 
and  introduces  many  new  fashions  in  dress,  192^-1933 — in 
his  hall  trencher-swains  (skutil-sveinar)  poured  out  for  the 
king  into  board-beakers  (bor^ker),  and  to  all  men  of  high 


cou — cro]  Index  III  32 1 

degree,  igs^o — candle-swains  (kertisveinar)  held  lighted 
candles  before  the  king's  table  as  many  as  men  of  distinction 
were  present,  i931(H3 — a  'trapeza'  was  placed  on  the  hall 
floor,  apparently,  reserved  for  washing  of  hands,  i9313 — the 
marshal's  chair  (stallarast611)  was  so  placed  that  the  occupant 
should  turn  towards  the  king's  high-seat,  i9314.16 — before  K. 
Olafs  days  the  kings  of  Norway  drank  out  of  horns,  had  ale 
borne  round  the  fires,  and  toasted  whomso  they  pleased, 
I93ie-i9 — K.  Olafs  body-guard  numbered  one  hundred ( =  120), 
the  guests  sixty,  the  house-carles  sixty,  these  latter  being  em- 
ployed in  bringing  into  court  what  goods  were  wanted,  and 
to  do  whatever  the  king  wanted  done,  1943.7 

Swedish :  K.  Hugleik  had  in  his  court  all  kinds  of  minstrels, 
harp-players,  jig-players,  fiddlers,  spell-workers,  and  all  kind 
of  cunning  folk,  i.  3732-382 — Olaf  the  Swede  had  attending  at 
dinner  in  his  hall  players  with  harps,  gigs,  and  other  musical 
instruments,  and  special  servants  to  pour  out  the  drink,  ii. 
IS9e-9 — ne  a^so  nad  always  at  his  court  twelve  counsellors  as 
assistant  assessors  in  adjustments  of  cases  at  law,  i59l7.02 

Russian:  The  Queen  Allogia,  as  was  the  wont  in  those 
days,  had  one  half  of  the  expenses  of  the  body-guard  to  sus- 
tain, due  amount  of  the  revenue  of  the  state  being  allowed 
her  for  the  purpose,  i.  251^ 

COURT-MEN  (hirSmenn),  persons  of  the  body-guard,  q.y.  ii. 
36214 

COW  (kyr),  worshipped  by  King  Ogvald  and  laid  in  howe  near 
Ogvaldsness,  i.  315^  lH6 

CROSS  (kross),  the  sign  of  the  Christian  cross  made  over  cups 
at  heathen  festivals  so  like  unto  that  of  Thor's  hammer  as  to 
be  allowed  by  jealous  heathens  to  pass  for  the  latter  on  the 
plea  that  such  was  the  sign  used  by  all  who  believed  in 
nothing  but  their  might  and  main,  i.  i6916.24 — most  of  Olaf 
the  Holy's  men  had  the  holy  cross  laid  in  gold  on  their  white 
shields  at  the  battle  off  Nesiar,  ii.  575.6 — a  cross  was  painted 
in  white  on  the  front  of  the  helmets  of  his  warriors  in  the 
same  battle,  57r8 — in  Snorri's  time  two  crosses  were  still 
standing  at  Cross-brent  where  K.  Olaf  had  rested  on  his  way 
through  Wall-dale,  ii.  36421.22 — K.  Olaf  orders  the  helmets 
and  shields  of  his  army  at  Sticklestead  to  be  marked  with  the 
Holy  Cross  in  white,  4oo27.29 — on  his  own  white  shield  the 

VI.  Y 


322  Index  III  [cro — cud 

Holy  Cross  was  done  in  gold,  4i38.10 — Harald  Sigurdson  be- 
stowed much  wealth  on  the  Holy  Cross  at  Jerusalem,  iii.  7i81- 
72a — a  splinter  of  the  Holy  Cross  at  Jerusalem  given  by  K. 
Baldwin  and  the  Archbishop  to  K.  Sigurd,  who  swore  to  place 
it  where  Olaf  the  Holy  rested,  25714;20  24.25— illadvisedly  he 
placed  it  in  Cross  Church,  built  by  himself,  at  Kings'  Rock, 
2  7  85-7  9-13  3°925-26 — ^  was  Dome  before  Magnus  the  Blind  in 
the  battle  of  Fyrileif,  3i72-3 — guarded  by  Magnus  until  he 
was  deposed,  when  it  was  not  forthcoming,  and  he  would  give 
no  information  about  its  whereabouts,  3243.5 — but  it  must 
have  been  found  again,  as  it  was  seized  by  the  Wends  in  the 
sack  of  Kings'  Rock,  33213.14 — who,  however,  restored  it  to 
priest  Andreas,  33225 — being  taken  on  board  K.  Rettibur's 
ship,  such  heat  spread  through  the  ship  that  the  crew  stood 
in  dread  of  burning,  3332.? — priest  Andreas  hides  it  in  his 
bosom  on  being  set  free  from  Rettibur's  ship,  and  directs  the 
boat  he  was  put  into  to  be  taken  round  the  ship  of  Rettibur, 
an  act  supposed  to  be  productive  of  evil  luck  (cf.  Howard  the 
Halt,  Saga  Lib.  i.  2715-282),  but  the  cross  priest  Andreas 
brought  into  safe  keeping  (how  or  where  not  stated),  33303.05 

CROSS-MEN  (kross-menn),  term  signifying  K.  Olaf's  men  at 
Sticklestead,  ii.  4oo32  42  718 

CROW  (kraka),  made  of  wood  and  sent  by  the  Danes  to  Sweden 
as  an  ignominious  emblem  of  the  fallen  Swede-king,  Ottar 
Vendilcrow,  i.  48n.15 — three  crows,  flying  past  in  succession, 
indicate  to  an  old  interpreter  of  bird  language  where  stolen 
property  of  his  is  hidden  on  board  Olaf  the  Quiet's  ship,  iii. 

200g-20I2 

CRUPPER  (slagalar),  i.  n624.  Not  an  exact  translation. 
Slagalar  were  straps  attached  to  the  saddle  on  either  side,  so 
as  to  be  behind  the  rider's  legs,  and  to  which  were  attached 
objects  the  rider  wanted  to  carry  with  him;  'saddle-straps,' 
for  want  of  a  more  technical  term,  would  be  a  closer  transla- 
tion. (Egilson  translates  it  lora  ephippii  postica,  '  Scrip,  hist. 
Island.,'  i.  22416.17) 

CUB  (hunn),  the  young  of  a  bear,  =  bersi,  the  name  of  the  Ice- 
landic poet  Bersi  Skald-Torva's  son,  whom  Sigvat  pettingly 
calls  a  'bear-cub,'  ii.  254^ 

CUDGEL  (refSi).  This  seems  to  have  been  a  stick  that  could  be 
used  as  a  walking  stick,  with  an  iron  spike  at  one  end  of  it 


cun — dan]  Index  III  323 

and  an  axe  at  the  other.  Such  a  stick  made  of  cane  with  a 
runic  calendar  engraved  on  it  we  have  seen  in  the  National 
Museum  of  Stockholm.  It  may  have  been,  like  the  pafilos, 
a  staff  of  office,  the  axe,  necessarily  a  small  one,  being  rather 
emblematic  of  authority,  than  doing  the  service  of  an  actual 
weapon.  In  Heimskringla  the  use  of  this  object  is  that  of  a 
striking  rod  ('rod  gold-wrought'),  i.  32o.27 — of  a  cudgel,  ii.  308 
2s  so-83  3°9io-iv— of  a  (cudgel  ?  or)  staff  of  authority,  iii.  2i516 
— of°a  staff  or  rod  of  state,  being  '  done  with  silver  and  gilded,' 
and  treated  as  a  suitable  gift  to  a  king,  3320.10 — (rrSvolr;  rrS, 
from  rfSa  to  knit,  weave,  voir  a  stick)  prop,  a  piece  of  wood 
by  which  the  meshes  of  a  net,  when  being  bound,  are  measured, 

3°°31 

CUNNING  (kunnusta),  knowledge  of  sorcery,  see  Wizardry. 

CUNNING  FOLK  (fjolkunnigt  f61k),  wizards,  i.  383 

CUP  (ker),  full  of  honey-mead,  a  bewitched  love-potion,  given 
by  Snowfair  to  Harald  Hairfair,  i.  1 1903 — (full)  see  health-cup 
— (minni)  memorial  toasts,  '  signed  to  the  yEsir  after  ancient 
wont,'  ii.  i937.s 

CURSES  :  the  sons  of  Visbur  imprecate  that  his  gold  necklace 
should  be  the  bane  (death)  of  the  best  man  of  his  kin,  i.  28 
1516 — and  the  witch  Huld  undertakes  by  spell-working  to 
effect  that '  slaying  of  kin  by  kin  should  ever  follow  the  blood 
of  the  Ynglings,'  2819.,3 

CURTFELL,  Drapa  by,  see  Poems. 

DAIS  (pallr)  a  raised  platform  on  which  the  two  high-seats  on 
either  side  of  a  hall  were  arrayed  as  well  as  other  seats  to 
left  and  right  of  the  high-seats,  i.  5909-60^—  dais  in  Thorkel 
Fosterfather's  hall  at  Sandwick,  Orkney,  ii.  i7728 — in  Thrand 
o'  Gate's  Thing-booth  in  Faroe,  3073  31  3o8n— Olaf  the  Quiet 
moved  the  high-seat  from  the  side  wall  of  the  hall  to  the 
high  dais  athwart  it  (at  the  upper  end),  iii.  i92a 

DALE  (dalr):  in  the  allegorical  phrase  '  dale  meets  knoll'  the 
meaning  is  that  Earl  Thorfin  will  find  out  that  it  will  be  as 
vain  for  him  to  endeavour  to  baffle  the  power  of  K.  Olaf 
Haraldson  as  it  would  be  for  a  knoll  to  rebel  against  the 
valley  that  encompasses  it  (cf.  Olaf's  saga,  1853,  9731  Flat.  ii. 
i79„i4  Fms.  iv.  2  25„0  Laxd.  134,)'  "■  i82h>-->o 

DANE-TONGUE,  Danish  tongue,  tongue  of  the  Danes  (donsk 
tunga),the  tongue  spoken  by  the  North-Germanic  races  before 


324  Index  III  [day — dre 

the  languages  of  Sweden  and  Denmark  had  developed  a 
special  form  of  their  own,  i.  i9  3i15 — used  by  Sigvat  almost 
as  a  geographical  term  for  the  lands  inhabited  by  those 
races,  ii.  3234 

DAYMEAL  (dagverSr),  breakfast,  ii.  3oi21  iii.  i7o12 

DEADLY  DRINK  (bana-drykkr),  poison;  given  to  Frodi,  son 
of  Har.  Hairfair,  in  Ireland,  i.  I3225.26 — Queen  Gunnhild  al- 
leged to  have  dealt  in  a  similar  manner  with  her  brother-in- 
law,  Halfdan  the  Black,  i4214.18 

DESERTION  by  husband  of  his  wedded  wife  :  by  Vanland  of 
Drift,  i.  2631-276 — by  Visbur  of  his  first  wife  (not  named),  288 
— of  nine  wives  by  Harald  Hairfair  when  he  married  Ragn- 
hild  from  Jutland,  ii422.30 — by  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  of 
his  queen,  Malmfrid,  iii.  307-309,3 — by  K.  Magnus  the  Blind 
of  his  queen,  Kristin,  3i425.31 — by  wife  of  her  husband: 
Kristin  of  Earl  Erling  Askew,  iii.  474n.13 

DIAR,  an  Irish  word,  dfa  =  god;  the  name,  which  only  occurs 
in  the  plural,  is  collectively  given  to  the  twelve  temple  priests 
of  Asgarth,  who  were  among  Odin's  people  the  highest  in 
sacerdotal  and  judicial  authority,  i.  i214.21 — Niord  and  Frey 
of  the  Vanir  were  raised  to  the  position  of  Diar  among  the 
Asfolk,  1420-21 — au"  tne  Diar  joined  Odin  in  his  emigration 
from  Asgarth  to  the  North,  i5l7 — the  more  part  of  them  died 
in  the  days  of  Niord,  2215.16 

DIE  (teningr),  play  and  miraculous  winning  at,  by  Olaf  the 
Holy,  ii.  i6623-i677 

DOMAIN,  see  Fief. 

DOWER  (mundr),  given  by  the  bridegroom  to  the  bride  :  Vis- 
bur's  to  his  first  wife,  three  'great  towns,'  or  rather  great 
manors,  and  a  gold  necklace,  i.  2  86.7  13 — (heiman-fylgja,  what 
follows  with  the  bride  from  home),  the  dower  bestowed  on 
the  bride  by  her  guardian  (father,  or  other  nearest  relatives), 
ii.  i5230  2ii27.28  iii.  ii420 

DOWN-PILLOW  (dunn),  or  down-bolster,  is  the  meaning  of  '  a 
duni,'  on  which  Thorleif  the  Sage  says  King  Harald  Hairfair 
honours  and  worships  his  dead  spouse,  i.  i2o1G 

DRAKE  (dreki),  a  winged  legendary  monster,  looked  upon  as 
a  guardian  spirit  of  a  family,  i.  2  6831 — dragons  (drekar), 
wondrous  great,  in  Great  Sweden,  i2x 

DREAMS  (draumar),  Odin  would  appear  to  the  Swedes  in 


dre] 


Index  III  325 


dreams  before  great  battles,  i.  2i29.33 — dreaming  procured  by 
sleeping  in  a  swine-sty,  847.10 — Queen  Ragnhild's  dream,  83 
14.31  I43..X-33 — King Halfdan  the  Black's,  843..27 — Thrall  Kark's, 
i.  293„7"3.7  294.,.,;  29630-297L? — Earl  Hakon's  accompanied  by 
violent  convulsions,  297s.12 — K.  Olaf  the  Holy's,  ii.  2o16.24 
38214-383ll  386.2.5  4149-32— K-  Magnus  the  Good's,  iii.  35 
9-19  WisrW-— Gyrd's,  i6322-i64s— Thord's,  i64n.33— K. 
Harald  Hardredy's,  i651.14 — many  dreams  and  forebodings 
went  before  K.  Harald's  expedition  to  England,  i6515.16 — 
K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's,  269^270^  291^292^ — Erling 
Eskew's  at  Rydiokul  on  point  of  being  betrayed,  47522.29 — 
interpretation  of  dreams  a  highly  esteemed  accomplishment, 

"•  34°io-n 
DRESS:  1.  Women's. 

Smock  (serkr),  i.  831S — night-sark  (natt-serkr),  iii.  420., 
DRESS  :  2.  Men's.  ' 
Boot  (b6ti),  iii.  324.^ 

Breeches  (braekr),  linen  b.,  strait-laced  to  the  bone,  ii.  308 
99-30 — D-  Wl^h  footsole-bands  (ilbandabrsekr)  used  in  run- 
ning, iii.  298^ — blue  b.,  34°2r  34I2i:22 
Cap  (hufa),  silken,  gold-embroidered,  iii.  3653.4 
Qape  (kapa),  grey,  an  over-garment,  probably  with  sleeves,  see- 
ing that  the  wearer  was  engaged  in  fieldwork,  ii.  3514  iii. 

44525  ,    .        c 

Cloak,  for  want  of  more  technical  terms,  serves  as  translation  of: 

1.  '  Feldr,'  a  square  kind  of  rug,  generally  about  2  yards 
by  about  1,  of  coarse  homespun,  or  of  skins,  and  was 
thrown  over  the  shoulder  like  a  shawl,  or  over  the  body 
in  lying  posture  like  a  rug  cover,  ii.  297^  30730 — Sigvat's 
phrase :  Hideous  it  is  when  Thingmen  .  .  .  thrust  down 
nose  into  the  cloak '  (stinga  nosum  niftr  i  feldi),  refers  to  a 
habit  among  Norsemen  to  cover  up,  partly  at  least,  the 
face  when  beset  by  cares  or  trouble;  in  casu  it  refers  to 
the  general  discontent  of  the  king's  subjects,  iii.  2417.j9 — 
'  Varar-feldr,'  rug  for  sale,  was  practically  the  same  thing ; 
we  have  translated  it  '  grey  cloaks,'  because  the  king's  by- 
name shows  that  the  rugs  in  question  were  made  of  home- 
spun and  undyed  (grey)  wool,  black  and  white  mixed,  i. 
2o8i'.*  23  30  2°9i-2  4  6-7 — six  °f  these  rugs  or  cloaks  +  six  ells 
of  wadmal  (vaftmal),  equal  in  value  to  half  a  mark  of  silver, 


326  Index  III  [dre 

constituted  proper  payment  of  the  '  land-dues '  or  '  sailing 
fee '  which  in  Norway  every  free  man,  '  in  his  full  right ' 
{i.e.,  who  was  entitled  to  proper  atonement  for  any  offence 
or  injury  done  to  his  person),  landing  there  from  Iceland, 
had  to  pay;  hence  Sigvat's  expression,  'If  now  for  the 
cloaks  I  pray  me,'  i.e.,  if  now  I  pray  for  the  remission  of 
the  land-dues,'  ii.  5230 

2.  Hekla,  an  over-cloak  or  cape  without  sleeves,  green, 

ii.  3o829 

3.  Kapa,  an  over-cloak,  with  or  without  sleeves :  of  scarlet, 
probably  without  sleeves,  being  a  raiment  of  state,  ii.  3626 
cf.  Cape. 

4.  Lo^-Kapa,  shag-cloak,  with  the  hair  or  fleece  on  the 
outside,  i.  2654  cf.  Fleece-cope  below. 

5.  Kilting,  not  exactly  a  piece  of  garment,  but  an  ar- 
rangement of  the  kirtle  whereby  a  receptacle  for  slipping 
portable  things  into  was  made  of  it  above  the  belt  in  front : 
Thorir  Hound  poured  the  spoils  of  Jomali's  wealth  into  his 
cloak  (kilting),  ii.  2624.7— Thiostolf  Ali's  son  carried  the 
infant  king  Ingi  inside  his  'kilting'  at  the  battle  of  Mouth 
(where  the  translation  '  kilt '  is  misleading),  iii.  34924-25 

6.  Mottull,  cf.  mantle,  a  sleeveless  over-garment,  i.  695 
iii.  6725  472u — short  m,  2985 — Welsh,  481.3 — custom,  when 
men  oif  high  degree  obeyed  nature's  errands  on  board  ship, 
that  their  attendants  should  hold  out  their  mantle  for  a 
shelter,  34i5.7 

7.  Skikkja,  a  sleeveless  cape  cast  over  the  shoulders,  i. 
379  ii.  365^ — of  purple,  lined  with  white  skins,  iii.  8631.32 — 
red,  with  tucked-up  skirts,  45330-3i 

8.  Slce^ur,  a  robe,  or  gown,  a  trailing  garment  of  state; 
one  made  of  pall,  much  gold-embroidered,  sent  by  Princess 
Ingigerd  of  Sweden  to  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  i2  220.2^ 

9.  Vesl,  a  sleeveless  over-raiment,  blue  v.,  iii.  2i66.7 

10.  Yfirhofn,  over-cloak,  a  general  term  for  over-alls, 
especially  those  without  sleeves,  ii.  i2  54  10  i3i9  24  28  iii. 

2 332o  34°2s 
Cloak-clasp,  -buckle  (feldar-dalkr),  one  worth  fifty  marks  of 

refined  silver  presented  by  the  Icelanders  to  Eyvind  the 

Skaldspiller  for  a  drapa  he  had  composed  on  the  Icelandic 

people,  i.  2i94.1331  28ilV 


dre] 


Index  III  327 


Coat  (bjalfi),  made  by  Finns  of  reindeer  skin  (hreinbjalfi), 
which  through  the  thickness  of  the  fur  formed  a  protective 
kind  of  armour  of  great  excellence,  a  quality  which  Snorri, 
following  Sigvat,  attributes  to  Finn-wizardry,  ii.  38705.0S 
432i-i5 — (hjupr)  red,  worn  over  the  byrny  (sur-coat),  iii. 
23ri5 19  20  81  27 — red>  °f  S1^,  wom  over  the  shirt  (sur-coat), 
with  a  lion  on  it,  cut  out  in  silk,  on  back  and  breast,  gules, 
24o.,9.30  33 — of  ordinary  skin,  see  Doublet. 

Cope  (kapa),  see  Fleece-cope. 

Doublet  (kosungr),  a  jacket  without  sleeves,  lined,  iii.  i791(J 
i;  =  skin-coat  (skinn-hjdpr),  i7928 

Fleece-cope  (loSkapa),  a  cape  of  skin  with  the  fleece  or  hair 
on,  iii.  2i5l7 

Hat  (hottr),  i.  i2i26 — worn  over  helmets  for  disguising  pur- 
pose, i.  i8527  ii.  7728  iii.  6725  47214 — wide-brimmed,  viSr, 
grey,  grar,  ii.  3515 — slouch,  si^r,  22i28  3o82S — a  wide,  iii. 
1383  13 — a  bowl-hat  (skal-hattr),  peculiarity  uncertain,  2i5ir 
— Irish,  2985 

Hose  (hosur),  blue,  ii.  3513 — Cordovan  hose  (korditnahosur), 
3603.04 — pride  hosen  (dramb-hosur),  laced  to  the  bone,  i.e., 
quite  tight  fitting,  iii.  i9227.28 

Jerkin,  long  (langr  upphlutr),  corset,  or  waistcoat,  instead  of 
jerkin,  would  better  express  the  original,  which  means  that 
Erling  set  the  fashion  of  wearing  kirtles  with  long  corsets 
or  waistcoats,  and  with  long  sleeves,  iii.  48 ix 

Kirtle  (kyrtill),  short,  red,  worn  over  a  coat  of  mail,  i.  36628 
—blue,  ii.  3513  3635  239^  iii.  i7314— red,  ii.  303^— red- 
scarlet,  iii.  2i67.8 — drag-kirtle  (drag-kyrtill),  'laced  to  the 
side,'  where  '  drag '  probably  refers  to  these  kirtles  being 
laced  (drawn)  tight  with  cords  provided  for  the  purpose,  iii. 
x9229-3o — short,  23319 — browned,  i.e.,  dyed  deep  blue,  45330 
— kirtles  worn  over  byrnies  to  disguise  warlike  intention, 

ii-  7728 
Mantle  (mottull),  a  sleeveless  over-garment:  m.  with  cords 

(mottull  a  tyglum),  otherwise  called  '  tugla-mottull,'  tied 

round  the  neck  with  cords,  iii.  34o2S  341^ 
Mitten  (vottr),  lined  with  down,  i.  io910 
Raiment  (klse^i,  bunaSr),  also  translated  robes  and  clothes, 

general  terms,  collectively  designating  dress,  especially  of 

persons  of  high   degree  and  their  household  company: 


328  Index  III  [dri 

robes  of  state  (tignar-klsefti),  K.  Sigurd  Sow's,  ii.  3423 — best 
raiments  (beztr  biina^r),  ordered  by  Asta  to  be  worn  by 
her  household  on  Olaf,  her  son's,  first  visit  to  her  after  re- 
turning from  his  viking  cruises,  3430 — good  clothes  (g6^5 
klarSi)  she  lent  to  those  who  had  none,  3430-3i — costly 
raiment  (pells-klae'Si),  3626  —  raiment  of  gold-broidered 
scarlet  (skarlatskke'Si  buin  gull-hl6c>um),  the  ordinary  wear 
of  the  outlaw  Arnliot  Gellini,  2993 
Sark  (serkr),  apparently  only  another  term  for  kilting;  for 
Arnliot  must  have  kept  the  silver  dish  which  he  took  out 
of  '  his  sark '  concealed  above  the  belt  under  the  '  gold- 
broidered  garment '  he  wore,  ii.  3oo5 
Seat-gore  (setgeiri),  iii.  34i22 

Shirt  (skyrta),  red,  silken,  worn  as  an  overall  by  K.  Magnus 
the  Good  in  the  battle  of  Lyrshawheath,  iii.  369 — the  only 
piece  of  clothing  left  on  Styrkar's  body  after  the  battle  of 
Stamfordbridge,  i7912 — Harald  Gilli's  only  upper  garment 
when  racing  with  Magnus  the  Blind  on  horseback,  2984 — 
with  long  sleeves,  48 12 
Shoes  (sk6r,  pi.  skuar),  high,  laced  to  the  leg,  ii.  3513.14 — high, 
'  all  sewn  with  silk  and  some  embroidered  in  gold,'  a  fashion 
in  vogue  in  Norway  during  Olaf  the  Quiet's  reign,  iii.  19233- 
1930 — of  shanks'  leather  (fit-skuar),   45331.32 — high-laced 
(upphair),  48 12 
Sleeves  (ermar),  of  the  drag-kirtles,  five  ells  long  and  so 
tight  that  they  must  be  drawn  by  an  arm-cord  (hand-tygill, 
dat.   hand-tugli)  and  trussed  all  up  to  the  shoulder,  iii. 
I9230-32 — l°ng  sleeves  to  kirtles  and  shirts,  a  fashion  revived 
by  Erling  Askew,  iii.  481^ 
Spur  (spori),  gilded,  ii.  3624 
DRINK  (drykkr),  strong,  served  out  to  persons  destined  for  be- 
trayal :  Olaf  Tryygvison  invites  wizards  to  a  feast,  makes  them 
drunk  by  strong  drink,  and  then  burns  them  all  in  the  ban- 
queting chamber,  i.  31239-3133 — the  priest  at  Rydiokul  in- 
vites Erling  Askew  to  a  banquet,  giving  him  strong  drink 
through  the  evening  and  right  much  of  it  while  he  warns  his 
enemies  to  set  upon  him,  iii.  4757-47632 
DRINKING  (drykkja),  by  measure,  customary  at  Erling  Skialg- 
son's  day-meal,   each  participant   of  the  meal  receiving  a 
'  measure '  (mal)  of  drink,  while  at  night-meal  the  drink  was 
not  measured  out,  ii.  2429.31 


DRl] 


Index  III  329 


Drinking  as  social  custom :  in  company  (sveitar  drykkja) ; 
vikings,  when  invited  to  feasts,  followed  the  custom  of  drinking 
in  company  by  themselves  even  where  '  drinking  in  pairs ' 
was  habitual,  i.  5927.29  6o10.12 — this  custom  broken  by  K. 
Hiorvard,  6orM7 — in  pairs  (tvimenningr),  men  being  paired 
with  women  and  spending  the  evening  drinking,  a  custom 
observed  by  kings  who  abode  at  home  {i.e.  did  not  go  out  on 
viking  cruises),  i.  5922.27 — K-  Hiorvard  and  Hildigunna  drink 
paired  and  become  man  and  wife,  6o10.26 — highborn  ladies 
partake  otherwise  also  in  drinking :  Hildigunna  drinks  to 
toasts  of  K.  Hiorvard  and  his  Ylfings  in  memory  of  Rolf 
Kraki,  i.  6o4.7 — Sigrid  the  Haughty  drank  through  the  evening 
with  K.  Harald  the  Grenlander,  i.  284^.03 — Ingigerd,  d.  of 
Olaf  the  Swede,  sat  in  her  chamber  drinking  with  many  men  ; 
Gizur  and  Ottar  are  entertained  at  drink  by  her,  ii.  9521.22  30 
— drinkings  turn  and  turn  about,  see  Gilds. 

Drinking  to  excess :  drinking  a  man  off  his  settle  (drekka 
mann  af  stokki),  ii.  i2  531.32 — great  drinkings  going  on  when 
season  was  abundant,  I27n.12 — drinking  bouts  at  winter  nights 
i.e.  at  the  great  autumn  festivals,  193^ — at  Yuletide,  i952.6 
— champion  drinking  (kapp-drykkja),  2963 — drinking  heavily 
the  ale  of  departure  (brottferSarol)  before  going  on  a  viking 
cruise,  i.  2io.20.22 

Personal  drunkenness:  K.  Fiolnir  fell  dead  drunk  (dau^a- 
drukkinn)  into  a  vat  of  mead  and  was  drowned,  i.  2  58 — K. 
Swegdir  and  his  men,  very  drunk,  266.7 — Agni's  wedding,  a 
drunken  feast,  3332-344 — K.  Yngvi's  habit  to  sit  long  over 
drink  at  night,  36l7.20 — his  men  very  drunk  with  him,  3630 
— K.  Ingiald  Evilheart  made  all  his  court  dead  drunk  and 
then  burnt  them  together  with  himself  in  his  hall,  64j.20 — K. 
Gudrod,  Hunter  king,  had  great  drinkings  on  board  his  ships, 
7 1 17-21 — Great  drinking  by  K.  Sigurd  Slaver  and  his  men, 
2i524 — Olaf  Tryggvison  feasts  Thrandheim  notables  at  Ladir 
and  men  were  very  drunk,  3i816.17 — K.  Harald  the  Gren- 
lander full  merry  with  drink,  and  exceeding  drunk,  285,  7 — 
made  drunk  together  with  his  men  by  Sigrid  the  Haughty, 
who  then  burnt  them  all  to  death,  2861421 — Olaf  the  Swede 
merry  and  very  drunk,  ii.  9612.13 — Olaf  the  Quiet  a  mickle 
drinker  (drykkjumaftr  mikill),"iii.  i9i12.13 — the  courtiers  of 
K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  sing  evensong  drunk  outside  a 


330  Index  III  [dro — ear 

church,  2865.7 — Magnus  the  Blind  a  drunkard,  297  20.21  2992.6 
3i315 — he  and  Harald  Gilli  both  drunk,  2  9720.21 — Harald  Gilli 
slain  drunk,  343s — Alf  Ruffian  comes  upon  Bergliot  and 
Onund,  sons  of  Ivar  of  Elda,  both  drunk,  and  slays  them,  4165 

DROTT  (drott),  the  company  that  formed  the  host,  body-guard, 
of  a  dr6ttinn  or  ruler  of  a  whole  people,  i.  3120-21 

DROTTNAR  (dr6ttnar,  plur.  from  drdttinn,  lord  of  the  host,  cf. 
O.E.  dryhten,  O.H.G.  truhten),  the  title  appertaining  to  each 
of  the  twelve  temple  priests  of  Asland,  i.  i220 — and  to  the 
rulers  of  Sweden  from  Odin  to  Domar  (Odin — Niord — Frey 
— Fiolnir — Swegdir— Vanland — Visbur — Domald — Domar), 

3 *  19-21 

DROTTNING(AR)  (plur.  of  drdttning),  the  wife  of  a  dr6ttinn, 
a  lady,  queen,  i.  3i20 

DUES  (skyldir,  tekjur),  royal  revenues;  conferred  by  halves  on 
his  sons  on  being  made  kings,  by  Har.  Hairfair,  i.  i322.5 — 
withheld  from  Eric's  sons  throughout  Thrandheim  by  Earl 
Sigurd,  i.  199x5.17  and  by  Hakon  his  son,  2o626.29 

DUKE  (hertogi),  a  title  borne  only  by  two  persons  in  Norway: 
Guthorm,  the  uncle  of  Harold  Hairfair,  i.  92x  8  no20  ii432 
ii55  1249  and  Skuli  Bardson,  the  fifth  in  descent  from  Earl 
Tosti,  iii.  184^ 

DWARFS  (dvergar),  found  in  Scythia,  i.  n24 — a  dwarf  shuts 
K.  Swegdir  up  in  his  hollow  rock  at  Stone  in  Sweden  the 
Great,  or  Scythia,  263.24 

EARL  (jarl),  appointed  by  Harald  Hairfair  in  every  folkland, 
his  duties  and  rights  defined,  i.  967.18 — investiture  of  an  earl 
described,  989.12  iii.  Z*\-\§ — tne  dignity  of  earls  at  court 
lowered  by  the  division  of  the  kingdom  among  Hairfair's  sons, 
i.  i3225 — the  policy  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  Magnus  the  Good, 
and  Harald  Hardredy  to  have  only  one  earl  in  the  land,  iii. 
1 1 63.8 

EARTH-BURG  (jarSborg),  fort,  earth-work,  built  at  Sarps- 
burg  by  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  7830-794 — K.  Eric  Emundson's 
earth-burgs  about  the  Eastlands,  ii.  i2o27.29 — one  in  Kvaldins- 
isle  of  turf  and  timber  with  a  dyke  round  it,  iii.  227^ 

EARTH-HOUSE  (jarS-htis),  an  underground  tunnel  or  mine, 
carried  from  the  camp  of  a  besieging  army  into  the  town  be- 
sieged, iii.  659.26;  'dyke'  in  line  10  would  be  better  rendered 
by  tunnel  (groptr). 


egg — fai]  Index  III  33 1 

EGG-LAIR  (egg-ver),an  outlying  island  or  rock  where  sea-birds, 
especially  eider-ducks,  gather  in  the  hatching  season,  ii.  2923 

ELF-WORSHIP  (alfa-blot),  ii.  i4614  2, 

ELL  (oln,  alin),  1,  a  measure  of  length,  18  inches,  hi.  i2424 
1$$^ — 2,  a  unit  of  value,  an  ell  of  wadmal  or  homespun 
cloth  (alin  vaSmals)— Olaf  the  Holy,  attempting  to  incorpor- 
ate Iceland  in  his  realm,  proposed  that  the  Icelanders  should 
pay  him  'nosegild'  or  poll-tax,  'for  every  nose  a  penny,  10 
whereof  should  go  to  an  ell  of  wadmal,'  i.e.  equal  it  in  value, 
ii.  2  75tV11—  an  ell  of  wadmal,  value  10  pennies,  was  equal  to 
i  of  the  ounce,  eyrir,  then  (1027)  current  in  Iceland,  called 
the  six  ells'  ounce,  sex  alna  eyrir,  which  equalled  60  pennies, 
being  \  of  a  mark  of  silver  weighed,  which  contained  480 
pennies.  The  nosegild  demanded  therefore  amounted  in 
value  to  ^  of  the  standard  currency,  the  ounce  of  silver 
weighed. 

EMMA,  a  coat  of  mail,  so  called,  see  Weapons,  defensive. 

ERNE  (orn,  otherwise  blood-eagle,  blb^orn),  the  opening  of  a 
man's  body  from  the  back  in  the  form  of  an  eagle;  a  cruel 
execution  of  a  vanquished  foe,  described,  i.  i266.10 — an  eagle, 

iii-  l633o  v  .         . 

EVENSONG  (aptan-songr),  vespers,  11.  i2  52— sung  in  a  riotous 

fashion  outside  a  church  by  intoxicated  courtiers,  iii.  2864.7 

^87 

EXPORT  of  corn,  malt,  and  meal,  from  Southern  Norway  to  the 
north,  where  dearth  prevailed,  forbidden  by  Olaf  the  Holy 
in  order  that  his  ordinary  feasting  in  the  south  should  not  be 
interfered  with,  ii.  2ii4.n  2i531-2i61  2i82 — this  law  eluded 
with  impunity  by  Erling's  thralls  as  being  beyond  the  pale 
of  land's  law  and  right,  2i899-2i93 

FAFNIR  =  dragon,  =  '  Worm  '  =  The  Long  Worm,  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison's  war-galley,  i.  3703 

FAGGOT-FENCE,  f. -garth  (skfSgarSr),  wooden  fence  round 
the  sanctuary  of  the  Biarmland  divinity  Jomali,  ii.  26i10  10.17 

24  25  211  1 

FAIR  (kaupstefna),  held  at  Upsala  for  six  days  in  the  month 
of  Goi,  while  Sweden  was  heathen;  after  the  introduction  of 
Christianity  it  was  moved  back  to  Candlemas,  and  lasted  for 
three  days  only  in  the  time  of  Snorri,  ii.  ii22.3  5.9 — at  Vagar 
in  Halogaland,  238^— at  Tunsberg,  2io.23.2T  24914 


33 2  Index  III  [fal — fea 

FALCONRY,  see  Sports. 

FAMINE  (hallseri),  great  in  Iceland  (1047),  generously  allevi- 
ated by  K.  Harald  Sigurdson,  iii.  io224.32 

FASTING  (fasta) :  Friday  fast  first  introduced  in  Norway  by 
Hakon  the  Good,  i.  164.,  i6632 — sanctity  of  that  fast,  iii. 
29218-29418 — fasting  unto  iron,  preparation  for  the  ordeal 
of  bearing,  or  walking  over,  red-hot  iron,  2  78l7.19  296^ — 
fasting  observed  on  Christmas  eve  in  Norway,  29425 

FEASTS  (veizlur),  banquets:  a  great  given  by  K..Frodi  at 
Hleithra  in  Denmark  to  entertain  K.  Fiolnir  of  Sweden,  and 
to  which  people  were  invited  from  many  lands,  i.  2^.25.27 — 
great  feast  given  at  Upsala  by  K.  Ingiald  in  celebration  of 
his  father's  memory,  but  with  the  treacherous  intent,  which 
was  even  carried  out,  of  burning  seven  kings  in  the  feast- 
chamber,  5724-594 — Aki,  the  Vermland  magnate,  feasts 
Kings  Harald  of  Norway  and  Eric  of  Sweden,  io615-io75 
— feast  arrayed  at  Ogvaldsness  for  Olaf  Tryggvison  and  a 
company  of  three  hundred,  31324.07 — Olaf  Tryggvison  gives 
heathen  notables  of  Thrandheim  a  magnificent  feast  at  Ladir, 
3i810.ls — Asta  gives  a  most  splendid  feast  of  welcome  to  her 
son  Olaf,  ii.  3322-37ls — and  another  in  celebration  of  his 
victory  over  the  Upland  kings,  io928.30 — on  the  kings'  pro- 
gress through  the  country,  feasts  were  prepared  for  them  by 
their  stewards  (armenn)  at  the  royal  manors,  4512-26 — cus~ 
tomary  for  the  kings  to  appear  at  such  a  banqueting  (guest- 
ing) in  the  same  district  once  in  three  years  with  a  retinue 
of  sixty  or  seventy,  never  exceeding  one  hundred,  until  01.  the 
Holy  came  out  with  300  =  360,  ioi20.31  io220.22 — five  Upland 
kings  banquet  together  at  Ringacre,  drinking  in  '  gild-brother- 
hood,' io531.33 — great  banquet  arrayed  to  welcome  Astrid,  d. 
of  K.  Olaf  the  Swede,  at  the  court  of  Earl  Rognvald,  i4825.26 — 
stately  feast  at  the  bridal  of  Olaf  the  Holy  and  Astrid,  i5213- 
i539 — goodman  Grankel  of  Halogaland  entertains  his  king 
at  a  noble  feast,  i923.5 — Sigurd  of  Thrandness  as  well  as 
his  son  Asbiorn  continue  as  Christians  to  celebrate  three 
feasts  a  year  at  the  customary  heathen  seasons,  2i431-2i510 
— Olaf  the  Holy  entertained  at  a  three  nights'  feasting  by 
Red  of  Eastern  Dales,  33928.29 — Olaf  feasted  in  a  brave  man- 
ner by  Thorir  Olvirson,  34i12.22 — Magnus  the  Good  entertains 
his  uncle  Harald  at  a  banquet  of  state,  which  Harald  returns 


fea] 


Index  III  333 


by  another  the  next  day,  iii.  S317.27  8427-8626 — Magnus  and 
Harald  visit  the  Uplands  feasting,  87.20 — Magnus  Barefoot 
goes  banqueting  about  his  manors  in  the  Wick,  and  is  feasted 
by  Kolbiorn,  2  2o.,,.26  30 — great  feast  given  to  K.  Sigurd  Jeru- 
salem-farer  by  Roger,  Duke  of  Sicily,  25514.20 — K.  Sigurd's 
feast  in  entertainment  of  the  Emperor  of  the  East,  26o2li- 
26i13 — Kings  Eystein  and  Sigurd  (Jerusalem-farer)  entertain 
each  other  turn  about,   2793-2833 — banquet  of  great  mag- 
nificence given  on  the  occasion  of  K.  Magnus  Erlingson's 
coronation,  46414.29 — banquet  chamber  on  the  occasion  de- 
scribed, 46415-17 
FEASTS  (hatfSir),  ecclesiastical  festivals: 
Ascension  Day  (Uppstigningardagr),  ii.  1313  iii.  32503  46830 
Bartholomewmass  (Bartholomeusmessa),  iii.  24ox 
Blaisemass  (Blasiusmessa),  iii.  423l7  4262S 
Candlemass  (Kyndilmessa),  ii.   ii25.9  i5210  22 15  iii.  207,3 

45°;  475o 
Easter  (Paskar),  ii.  127,3  x9523  26  30  22Iie  m-  339*)  438i8— 

Easter-eve  (Paska-aptann),  i.  3i324 — Easterpeace  (Paska- 

friSr),  the  sanctity  of  Holy  Week,  ii.  2  2315 — Easter- week 

(Paska-vika),  iii.  3 25^ 
John  Baptist,  mass  of  (J6ns  messa),  iii.  39o6 
Lawrence  Wake  (Lafranzvaka),  vigil  of  St.  Lawrence,  iii. 

3X532  326i5.i6  26 

Luciamass  (Luciumessa),  iii.  342u 

Martinmass  (Marteinsmessa),  iii.  36i31 

Marymass  (Mariumessa),  Annunciation  of  the  Virgin,  Mar. 
25,  iii.  3io9 — '  In  autumn  '  is  a  mistake  in  the  oldest  text; 
other  MSS.  read:  'in  lent,'  with  which  the  obituaria  prac- 
tically agree. 

Marymass,  the  latter  (Mariumessa  hin  sfSari),  Nativity  of 
the  Virgin,  Sept.  8th,  iii.  48i24 

Matthewmass  (Mattheusmessa),  iii.  i6833 

Michaelmass  (Mikjalsmessa),  i.  3360-  ii.  32530  iii.  359  50.,, 

45831 
Olaf's  mass  (OlaPs  messa),  the  Nativity  of  St.  Olaf,  July  29th 
established  by  law  throughout  Norway  in  the  reign  of 
Magnus  the  Good,  iii.  i624-i74 — introduced  in  Denmark, 
I253-32 — OlaPs  wake  (Olafsvaka),  the  vigil  of  OlaPs-mass, 
1242  I9520  4678 


334  Index  III  [fee — fin 

Rogation-days  (gangdagar),  iii.  46730  4684  cf.  Ganging  days. 
Thomasmass  (Tumasmessa),  '  before  Yule,'  ii.  35420 

FEE-BOOT  (feboetr),  offer  of  money  in  atonement  for  man- 
slaughter, ii.  30900 

FELL  (feldr),  the  short  or  curt  of  Thorarinn  Curtfell,  an  object 
of  mirth  at  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  court,  iii.  2867.2&  cf. 
Cloak. 

FETTERS  (fjotrar),  ii.  22403  22512  u  226r>  22712  2280 

FIDDLER  (fi'Slari),  much  in  request  at  K.  Hugleik's  court  at 
Upsala,  i.  38x 

FIEF,  Domain  (len),  lands  conferred  by  a  sovereign  as  a 
personal  grant  on  earls  or  landed  men  on  terms  dictated  by 
custom  or  circumstances,  ii.  i6821  3io16.ir  iii.  i816  n710  i2  210 
— distinction  is  drawn  between  len  and  veizla  (see  Grant),  ii. 

2  3  79-io 
FIGUREHEADS,  see  Ships. 

FIGHTING  by  night  looked  upon  as  an  infamous  mode  of 
warfare:  Thordis  Skeggja,  a  wizard  woman,  advises  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad  to  fight  K.  Ingi  only  by  night,  iii.  4245.12 — 
following  the  advice  he  defeats  and  slays  K.  Ingi  by  night, 
42413-426n — but  manslaughter  by  night  being  accounted  a 
foul  murder,  Hakon's  deed  was  upheld  as  villainy,  for  which 
his  party,  and  notably  earl  Sigurd  of  Reyr,  were  legally 
sentenced  to  hell,  449^-4500  4S27-u 

FILLETS,  silken  (silki-rsemur),  possibly  'ribands'  would  be 
a  better  translation;  for  these  silken  bands  may  have  been 
intended  to  tie  the  robe  of  state  they  accompanied  round  the 
neck  of  the  wearer,  ii.  i2221.22 

FINE  (gjald),  of  five  and  forty  marks  of  gold  inflicted  by  his 
brother  Ingi  on  K.  Eystein  Haraldson  for  arson  and  cattle- 
lifting,  iii.  3927.n — of  three  hundred  (360)  head  of  cattle  in- 
flicted by  Erling  Askew  on  the  farmers  of  Hising  for  disloyalty 
to  his  son,  45917.30 — (lei'Sviti)  which  really  means:  a  fine  im- 
posed upon  a  person  who  fails  to  respond  to  summons  to  a 
naval  expedition  (lei^angr).  The  translation  of  the  passage : 
'  mi  veit  ek  eigi,  nema  ver  r6im  lei^angrinn  ok  gjaldim  leift- 
vitit,'  '  Now  I  see  nought  but  that  we  are  both  pressed  to  row 
and  paying  the  fine,'  is,  necessarily,  obscure.  The  meaning  is, 
'  Now  I  fear  we  may  be  rowing  (going  on)  the  expedition,  and 
(yet)  be  paying  the  penalty  (of  defaulters  none  the  less).'   In 


fix — flo]  Index  III  335 

Hakon's  thought,  'going  on  the  expedition'  meant:  furnishing 
Gold  Harald  with  means  to  overcome  and  slay  the  King  of 
Norway,  and  thus,  according  to  covenant,  becoming  King 
of  Norway  himself;  by  'paying  the  penalty'  as  if  they  were 
defaulters,  Hakon  hints  at  Gold  Harald's  vow  to  slay  Harald 
of  Denmark,  whose  life  then  would  be  the  fine  that,  after 
having  expedited  him  to  the  throne  of  Norway,  Gold 
Harald  would  exact  as  if  his  uncle  had  done  nothing  for 
him. 

FINGER-RING  (fingr-gull),  ii.  886 14.15  28o31  iii.  33210  cf.  Ring. 

FINN-CHEAPING  (finn-kaup),  trade  monopoly  in  Finnmark, 
a  prerogative  of  the  King  of  Norway,  which  he  carried  out 
generally  in  partnership  with  some  Halogaland  official  (landed 
man),  as  did  Olaf  the  Holy  with  Harek  of  Thiotta,  ii.  190^ 
— and  Thorir  Hound,  38720.2S — and  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer 
and  his  brothers  with  Sigurd  Ranison,  iii.  27i16 — this  involved 
the 

FINN-FARE,  Finn-journey  (finnferft),  in  the  course  of  which, 
besides  trading,  the  king's  partner  called  in  the  royal  taxes, 
Finn-scat,  ii.  3494  387^  a  lucrative  and  much  envied  em- 
ployment, iii.  2  7iO0.31 

FINN-SCAT  (finn-skattr),  the  income  that  trade  with,  and 
taxation  of,  Finnmark  yielded  to  the  treasury  of  the  Norw. 
king,  ii.  2  7i24  275^ 

FINN-WIZARDRY  (finngaldr),  see  Wizardry. 

FIRES  (eldar),  made  along  the  midst  of  the  floor  of  heathen 
temples,  i.  i6s232i — made  in  the  same  manner  in  kingly  and 

other  halls,  ii.  17714-15  cf- J-  l65*3  "■  672o  iji-  I925-6  J93i9  329i 
FISHING  in  Norway,  great  failure  of,  in  the  reign  of  the  sons 

of  Gunnhild,  i.  2i8ms — herring  fishing,  2i915.29  2422S.30  ii. 

25"">"3 — herring  as  article  of  trade,  7910  i>2>2\ 
FISH-LAIR   (fiski-ver),   an   outlying  island  where   fishermen 

congregate  for  the  pursuit  of  their  trade,  ii.  2929 
FLAKE-HURDLES  (flakar,  sing,  flaki),  of  willow  twigs  (vflSi- 

tagar),  borne  up  by  stout  and  close-set  uprights,  made  by 

Olaf  the  Holy  in  order  to  serve  his  ships  as  a  protecting  roof 

while  he  was  demolishing  London  Bridge,  ii.  Men 
FLAX  (horr),  see  Bowstring  under  Weapons,  2,  offensive. 
FLOCK  (flokkr)— 1.  a  band,  company,  party— 2.  spec,  a  short 

poem  without  a  refrain,  or  burden,  also  called  'drapling' 


336  Index  III  [flo — fos 

(drseplingr),  a  little  c  drapa ' ;  to  offer  such  to  a  king  was  re- 
garded as  disrespectful,  though  it  might  do  for  an  earl  or  an 
untitled  magnate.  Hence  K.  Knut's  anger  with  Thorarin 
Praisetongue,  ii.  35o14.22 — Sigvat's  '  flock  '  on  Erling,  356l7.27 
(one  strophe  out  of  ten). 
FLOCK-MEN  (flokksmenn),  those  of  a  band,  partisans,  iii. 

3998 
FOLK-MOTE  (m6t),  see  Mote. 

FOOD.  K.  Sigurd  Sow  entertains  his  stepson  Olaf  the  Holy  to 
fish  and  milk  fare  one  day,  and  to  flesh  meat  and  ale  the 
next,  turn  and  turn  about,  ii.  4i15.17 

FOOT  (f6tr),  to  clasp  the  foot  of  an  offended  person,  a  form  of 
praying  for  pardon,  ii.  38o18.24  iii.  2  7614 — Thorarin  Nefjulfson's 
misshapen  feet,  ii.  i331(3-i3427 

FOOT-BROAD  (fetbrei^r),  see  Weapons,  offensive — Swords  in 
fine. 

FOOT-MEN,  see  Infantry. 

FOOT-PACE  (fotpallr),  footstool  (fdtskor),  the  low  seat  in  front 
of  a  king's-high  seat  which  was  occupied  by  earls  awaiting 
investiture,  i.  98.,  iii.  3o5 

FOOT- PAGE,  i.  71^  id.  qu. 

FOOT-SWAIN  (sk6sveinn),  a  page,  manservant,  ii.  i2322  i2812 
19.20  i2  92  4  327.3  cf.  Shoe-swain. 

FORE-MASS  (formessa),  missa  nocturna,  matutina,  matutin- 
alis,  a  service  immediately  following  the  dttusongr,  hora 
matutina,  iii.  4433 

FORE-SONG  COPE  (fyrir-songs  kapa)  ?,  iii.  436^ 

FOSTER-BROTHERS  (fostbroeSr),  Gautvid  and  Ingiald 
Evilheart,  i.  5503 — Tryggvi  Olafson  and  Gudrod  Biornson, 
i426 — Rani  the  Widefaring and  Harald  theGrenlander,  2i2n.13 
— spending  some  time  in  youth  with  Skogul  Tosti  in  Sweden, 
Harald  became  the  foster-brother  of  Sigrid  the  Haughty,  2 1 230- 
2135  28410.19 — Sigurd  Thorlakson  and  Thoralf  of  Dimon  (pos- 
sibly pretended),  ii.  2  7213.10— to  shelter  a  foster-brother  who 
had  committed  a  criminal  offence  from  the  king's  justice,  an 
excusable  matter,  2  8310.12 — Philip  Gyrdson  and  K.  Sigurd 
Haraldson,  iii.  39i30.31 — Andreas  and  Onund,  sons  of  Simon, 
foster-brothers  of  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  399n.12  4i6n — Gyrd, 
son  of  Amundi, foster-brother  of  K.  Ingi,  4oo11.12  4O39.10 — in  the 
above  cases  foster-brotherhood  existed  in  virtue  of  the  persons 


fos — fra]  Index  III  337 

having  been  brought  up  together — ceremonially  entered,  or 
sworn  brotherhood,  is  only  mentioned  in  the  case  of  Harald 
Gilli  and  K.  Eric  Everminded  of  Denmark,  3i7o5-30 

FOSTER-FATHER  (fostr-faSir),  he  who  either  of  his  free  will 
set  another's  child  on  his  knee,  or  on  whose  knee  such  a 
child  was  set  without  a  previously  obtained  leave ;  in  this  latter 
case,  to  kill  the  child  was  not  manslaughter,  but  murder,  i. 
i4o18..,0 — to  bring  up  the  '  knee-set  child '  was  the  bounden 
duty  of  him  on  whose  knee  it  had  once  been  set — Swipdag 
the  Blind,  foster-father  of  Ingiald  Evilheart,  i.  5524  6i23— 
Bovi  of  Gauthild,  the  wife  of  Ingiald,  63^— Duke  Guthorm 
set  Harald  Hairfair's  eldest  son  on  his  knee  and  became  his 
fosterer,  ii432-i  i53 — Thiodolf  fosters  Gudrod,  son  of  Harald 
Hairfair,  i2i7.s  cf.  n-i2  25— Hawk  High-breech  set  Hakon 
the  Good  on  Athelstane's  knee,  saying  when  the  king  grew 
wroth  at  the  affront,  'Thou  hast  set  him  on  thy  knee  and 
mayst  murder  him  if  thou  wilt,'  i4on.20 — a  foster-father,  as  a 
rule,  looked  upon  as  inferior  in  rank  and  position  to  him 
whose  child  he  fostered,  i4o26.27 — K.  Harald  Gormson  takes 
into  fostering  and  sets  on  his  knee  Harald  Greycloak,  i592(!.27 
23520.21 — Thorolf,  foster-father  of  Queen  Astrid  and  her  son 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  i.  2  23n.12  230^ — an  infamous  deed  to  betray 
a  foster-son,  235.^-2362  but  cf.  23630-239u — Thorleif  the  Sage, 
Earl  Eric's  foster-father,  2oa21.22  2481819 — -Rani  Widefaring 
fosters  Olaf  Haraldson  (the  Hofy),  ii.  38 — Lawman  Thorgnyr 
Earl  Rognvald's  foster-father,  u720  —  Edward  Confessor 
HaraldGodwinson's,  iii.  15522-26 

FOWL  (fugl),  of  preternatural  size,  representing  a  guardian 
spirit  of  the  land  and  a  family  fetch  at  the  same  time,  i.  2693^ 
— wild  sea-birds,  the  catch  of  which  gives  value  to  outlying 
rocks  and  islands,  ii.  2923 — the  speech  or  voice  of  fowl  (fugls 
rodd)  was  a  language  which  it  was  given  to  but  few  to  under- 
stand, and  understanding  it  was  a  sign  of  marvellous  wisdom. 
K.  Day  the  Wise  (like  his  ancestor  Rig,  cf.  Rigsjmla,  O.  Edda, 
Bugge,  44)  possessed  this  wisdom,  i.  3i2,>30 — and  a  certain 
'  bonder  '-carle,  who  made  good  use  of  it  to  convict  K.  Olaf 
the  Quiet  of  felony,  iii.  199,-2015 

FOWLER  ffuglari),  his  services  in  aid  of  one  of  K.  Harald 
Sigurdson's  war  stratagems,  iii.  64,3.27 

FRANKLIN  (hauldr,  holdr),  an  untitled  person  who  takes 
vi.  z 


338  Index  III  [fre — gal 

rank  in  the  social  scale  above  the  '  bondi,'  and  is  a  freeholder 
by  birth  (6;Salsma:Sr,  o'Salborinn) ;  the  earl's  was  the  next 
rank  above  him  in  Orkney,  as  is  evidenced  by  Earl  Hallad 
becoming  a  'holdr'  on  renouncing  the  dignity  of  earl,  i. 
I2220-22  I27i3 — in  Norway  the  next  grade  above  holdr  was  the 
hersir's,  later  the  landed  man's,  whose  next  superior  again 
was  the  earl. 

FREED-MEN  (frelsingjar,  the  Icelandic  law  term,  leysingjar, 
the  Norwegian,  which  Snorri  uses  promiscue),  men  who  in  a 
formal  manner  (generally  by  drinking  their  '  ale  of  freedom,' 
frelsis-61)  have  exchanged  the  status  of  slavery  for  that  of 
conditional  or  limited  freedom;  ninety  such  always  in  at- 
tendance on  Erling  Skialgson,  ii.  242S.29 — his  treatment  of 
them,  2522.25 — socially  the  freedman  constituted  in  the  scale 
of  weregild  the  lowest  grade  of  free  citizens,  while  his  son 
ranked  one  grade  higher,  next  to  the  '  bbndi.' 

FREE  LAND  (63al),  see  Odal  lands. 

FREYA  (freyja),  a  term  for  a  woman  who  disposes  in  her  own 
right  over  her  own,  i.  24^ 

FRIDAY-FAST  (frjadagsfasta),  first  observed  in  Norway  by 
Hakon  the  Good,  i.  i642 — its  great  sanctity,  hi.  2921S-29316 

FRIST  (frestr),  delay,  stay,  respite,  iii.  i2328 

FRUVOR  (plur.  of  friiva,  an  older  form  of  fru,  from  still  older 
frauja),  a  title  derived  from  the  name  of  the  goddess  Freyja, 
and  given  to  ladies  of  high  degree,  i.  2  330.31 

FUNERAL-FEAST,  grave-ale  (erfi),  held  by  Agni  at  the  re- 
quest of  his  queen  Skialf  for  her  father  Frosti,  i.  33^-3499 — 
celebrated  at  Upsala  by  K.  Eystein  Evilheart  in  memory  of 
his  father,  at  which  he  burnt  to  death  six  tributary  kings  of 
Sweden,  5724_5810  29-594 — the  interesting  ceremonial  of  such 
a  feast  described,  5812.28 — joint  feast  held  by  K.  Svein,  the 
brothers  Bui  and  Sigurd,  and  Sigvaldi  of  Jomsburg,  in  memory 
of  their  respective  fathers  K.  Harald  Gormson,  Veseti  of 
Borgundholm  and  Strut-Harald  of  Skaney,  27i-27314 

FURS  (skinn),  costly,  obtained  from  Russia  (Novgorod),  ii. 
8219  (gravara,  'grey  wares')  i5622 

GAG  (kefli),  employed  as  an  instrument  of  torture  by  Olaf 
Tryggvison  for  effecting  the  conversion  to  Christianity  of 
Raud  the  Strong,  i.  33230.33 

GALLERY  (svalir,  loptsvalir,  also  translated  porch ;  loft-swale,  cf. 


gal — gif]  Index  III  339 

'  swale,  a  shady  place,'  HalliwelPs  Diet.),  a  passage  along  the 
side  of  a  house,  under  roof,  but  open  to  the  front.  It  was  of 
two  kinds:  i.  '  svalir,'  in  front  of  the  ground-floor,  the  eaves 
of  the  roof  being  supported  by  uprights,  perhaps  joined  by 
arches;  to  this  architectural  peculiarity  Snorri  refers  in  his 
description  of  the  shrine  of  Olaf  the  Holy  when  he  says  that 
under  it  there  were  svalir,  or  open  arches  as  I  take  it,  iii.  i67 
— to  this  kind  seems  to  belong  the  'porch,'  or  laterally  open 
archway,  which  is  mentioned,  ii.  1253  an(^  225t — 2-  'l°ft" 
svalir,'  a  laterally  open  gallery  running  along  the  front  of  the 
first  storey,  access  to  which  was  obtained  by  means  of  a  flight 
of  steps  (rrS)  at  one  end,  i.  25,3  9  iii.  1704.05  io813 
GALLOWS  (galgi),  i.  41 10  2405  ii.  7225  iii.  2i29  18  2^  30i27 
GALLOWS-TREE  (galga-tr£),  natural  tree  used  for  gallows, 
execution  taking  place  either  by  hauling  the  victim  up  by  the 
rope  to  the  branch  he  was  hanged  on,  i.  349.12  or  by  bending 
the  branch  down,  and,  when  the  rope  was  adjusted,  let  it 
spring  with  the  condemned  body  back  to  its  natural  position, 
iii.  2i213.16 
GANG  under  one's  hand  (ganga  a  hond  einhverjum),  to  do 

homage  to,  ii.  35821.22 
GANGING-DAYS'  thing  (gangdaga-ping),  Rogation  days'  pro- 
cession, iii.  35800  36812  46730  4684 
GARTH  (garSr) — 1.  an  enclosed  space,  a  court,  in  front  of  a 
homestead  of  the  better  class,  especially  in  towns,  ii.  3421  372  3 
iii.  ioq20  i4330  48231  4830 — 2.  the  homestead  itself  to  which 
such  a  court  belonged,  town  residence,  ii.  6431  iii.  32525  3893  e 
4i713  48i10 — 3.  spec,  a.,  the  royal  residence  (konungsgarSr), 
iii.  io425.2GJ  io5s.10  io813  io918  nols — b.,  the  royal  court  as 
centre  of  the  administrative  and  fiscal  interests,  public  treasury, 
ii.  158^  iii.  2i20 
GEMSTONES  (gimsteinar),  precious  stones,  iii.  3O930.31 
GHOST  (andi),  meaning  an  evil  spirit  out  of  the  realms  of 
darkness  quickened  in  a  man's  body  by  Finnish  wizardry: 
Eyvind  Rentcheek's  own  account  of  his  origin,  i.  32815.18 
GIANTS  (risar),  found  in  Scythia,  i.  u23 
GIFTS  (gjafir),  cf.  also  Yule-gifts,  had  anciently  a  far  greater 
significance  than  in  modern  times:  'ey  ser  til  gildis  gjof,'  gift 
always  looks  to  requital,  was  a  maxim  always  present  to  the 
mind  of  the  men  of  old.   Therefore,  for  the  receiver,  it  was  a 


34o  Index  III  [gif 

matter  of  honour  to  return  a  gift,  if  not  in  kind,  at  least  in 

deed.    The  acceptance  of  a  gift  by  an  equal  in  social  standing 

meant  insurance  of  mutual  goodwill;  acceptance  of  it  by  an 

inferior  involved  recognition  of  the  duty  of  paying  it  off  by 

service  rendered,  when  occasion  should  demand.    It  goes 

without  saying  that,  in  certain  circumstances,  this  custom 

should  degenerate  into  bribery  for  corrupt  purposes :  K.  Egil 

of  Sweden,  breaking  his  treaty  obligation  to  K.  Frodi  of 

Denmark,  sends  the  latter  good  and  great  gifts  every  year  in 

lieu  of  the  covenanted  tribute,  i.  4516  23.25 — Aki  gave  great 

gifts  to  Har.  Hairfair  'and  therewithal  they  kissed,'  io718.20 

— Aki  gives  '  good '  gifts  to  K.  Eric  of  Sweden,  io723 — K. 

Har.  Greycloak  sends  friendly  gifts  to  Earl  Sigurd,  203^ — 

and  to  Griotgarth  his  brother,  204-  2(5.28 — Queen  Gunnhild : 

good  gifts  to  K.  Eric  of  Sweden,  2  2  72r — Earl  Eric:  a  goodly 

longship  to  Vagn  Akison,  28332.34 — Sigrid  the  Haughty  sees 

her  foster-brother  Harald  Grenlander  off  with  great  gifts,  285^ 

— gifts  and  bailiffries  offered  by  K.  01.  Tryggvison  to  Eyvind 

for  abjuring  paganism,  all  to  no  purpose,  3285.6 — Harek  of 

Thiotta:    good  gifts  to   K.  01.  Tryggvison,  32Q5.fl — K.  01. 

Tryggvison  gives  a  cloak  to  Kiartan  Olafson,  33622.24 — K. 

01.  the  Holy:  a  well-wrought  sword  to  Marshal  Biorn,  ii. 

88(H1 — a  finger-ring  to  Earl  Rognvald,  886  14.15 — sends  Hialti 

Skeggison  off  with  friendly  gifts,   1379 — Earl  Rognvald:   a 

golden  ring  to  Sigvat,   1483 — Olaf  the  Holy  bestows  good 

gifts  and  great  on  Earl  Rognvald,  1537 — gives  Earl  Thorfinn 

a  longship  great  and  good  with  all  gear,  i7613.15 — Grankel 

sees  Olaf  the  Holy  off  with  great  gifts,  iQ24.5 — Erling  sees  his 

nephew  Asbiorn  off  with  friendly  gifts,  2i94.5 — Einar  Tham- 

barskelfir  got  great  gifts  (bribes)  from  K.  Knut,  2357.3 — Sigrid 

of  Thrandness  sees  off  with  gifts  friends  who  had  attended 

the  funeral  of  her  son  Asbiorn,  239^ — Olaf  the  Holy  sent 

friendly  gifts  to  many  chiefs  in  Iceland,  behind  which  lurked 

political  designs  on  the  island,  241^-2420 — Einar  Eyolfson 

recommends  suitable  gifts,  such  as  hawks,  horses,  tilts,  sails, 

to  the  Norwegian  king  instead  of  'scat,'  24414.1T — Olaf  the 

Holy  gives  friendly  gifts  to  chiefs  of  Faroe  who  had  become 

his  men,  24721.23 — Knut  gives  to  Sigvat  a  ring  weighing  half 

a  mark,  254^  19 — and  to  Bersi  Skald-Torvason  two  gold  rings 

weighing  half  a  mark  each  and  an  ornamented  sword,  2  548.u 


gig — gil]  Index  III  341 

17.1S  Knut  sends  great  gifts  to  K.  Onund  of  Sweden  (to  win  him 
over  from  the  alliance  with  Olaf  of  Norway),  2571,., — Kings 
Onund  and  Olaf  exchange  gifts,  268- — Stein  Skaptison  gives 
gifts  to  Ragnhild  of  Giski  and  her  son  Eystein,  28i12.18 — 
Karl  o'  Mere's  interpretation  of  the  meaning  of  friendly  gifts 
from  a  king,  303^ — Red  of  East-Dales  sees  K.  Olaf  off  with 
great  friend-gifts,  34o20.31 — K.  Knut  gives  a  thick  gold  ring  to 
Thorir  Olvirson,  342.,-  343a4-i5 — and  two  thick  such  to  Marshal 
Biorn,  379^ — Kalf  Arnison  receives  most  honourable  gifts 
(bribes)  from  K.  Knut,  3y614 — K.  Olaf  gives  a  gold  ring  to 
Thormodfor  singing  'Biarklay  the  Ancient,'  4o84.7  43919.97 — 
Thormod  dying  gives  it  again  to  the  woman  surgeon  attending 
him,442n.15 — ten  marks  of  burnt  (refined)  silver  given  to  Sigvat 
by  K.  Onund  of  Sweden,  iii.  i420-2i — Magnus  the  Good's  gifts 
to  his  uncle  Harald's  following  on  the  occasion  of  the  division 
of  Norway  between  them,  8320.2V — Harald's  return  gifts  to 
Magnus'  following  in  clothes,  weapons,  and  other  precious 
things,  854.s — K.  Harald  gives  Steig-Thorir  two  gold  rings 
weighing  together  one  mark,  8630.31 — K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer  gives  all  his  ships  to  the  Emperor  of  Constantinople, 
26io7.oS — K.  Nicolas  of  Denmark  gives  K.  Sigurd  a  ship  to 
take"  him  to  Norway,  26216.20 — K.  Sigurd  gives  three  manors 
to  Aslak  Cock  for  warning  him  against  breaking  the  Friday 
fast,  29413 — K.  Eric  Everminded  gave  a  shrine  to  K.  Sigurd 
Jerusalem-farer  for  Cross  Church  at  Kings'-Rock,  3093^3  iOj 
— the  Patriarch  of  Constantinople  gave  a  plenary  written  in 
golden  letters  to  K.  Sigurd,  3io2.3 — K.  Eric  Everminded  gave 
to  Harald  Gilli  eight  longships,  unrigged,  3i732 — Harald  Gilli 
gives  to  bishop  Magnus  Einarson  a  board-beaker  which  after- 
wards   served    as   chalice   in    the    Cathedral    of  Skalaholt, 
335i2-i5  3cf336s — K-  Harald  and  Queen  Ingirid  give  the  bishop 
the  bolsters  they  sat  on  done  over  with  pall,  of  which  were 
made  fore-song's  copes,  which  were  still  to  be  seen  in  Skala- 
holt in  Snorri's  days,  33522.27  3368.n — K.  Ingi  Haraldson  gives 
Gregory  Dayson  a  ship  "his  brother  K.  Sigurd  had  owned, 
39°9-io — many  and  great  gifts  given  on  K.  Magnus  Erlingson's 
coronation  day,  464.^.09 

GIG  (gigja),  fiddle,  played  at  court  dinners  in  Sweden  in  Olaf 
the  Swede's  reign,  ii.  i59s 

GILDS  (gildi) — 1.  convivial  assemblies,  of  which  drinking  was 


342  Index  III  [gla — gol 

the  prominent  feature.  Before  the  days  of  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet 
these  assemblies  had  no  fixed  meeting  place,  or  club,  but 
apparently  met  at  private  houses,  being,  in  Nidoyce  at  least, 
called  together  by  the  guild  bell  called  'Town-boon,'  hi. 
I922i-23 — the  gild  itself  bore  the  name  of  'hvirfingr,'  a  round, 
circle,  coterie,  or  club,  translated,  with  a  view  to  the  constant 
changing  of  meeting  place,  'turnabout-drinking,'  i9221 — and 
the  members  of  it,  collectively,  were  called  Gild-  or  Drinking- 
Brothers  (hvirfingsbra^Sr),  192^ — while  the  act  of  so  meeting 
together  for  drinking  purposes  was  called  '  drekka  hvirfing,' 
to  drink  'Gild-brother-wise,'  ii.  io532.33 — in  respect  of  the 
manner  in  which  store  was  supplied  to  such  a  drinking  mote 
it  was  called  ' samburSar-ol,'  or  'ale  brought  together,'  trans- 
lated 'gild-ale  drinking,'  'gild-drinking,'  because  each  of  the 
partakers  of  the  conviviality  brought  his  own  provisions  to  it, 
ii.  i9325.29iii-  3282446o4 — 2.  a  gild-house,  guild-hall,  first  estab- 
lished in  Norway  during  the  reign  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  who 
'  set  up '  in  Nidoyce  the  '  Great  Gild '  (mikla  gildi),  which 
was  hallowed  or  consecrated  to  Olaf  the  Holy,  i9219.20  i974 
9.n  2  864  38617 — these  clubs  bore  the  general  name  of  skyt- 
ningar,  '  skot-houses,'  i9225 

GLAD  (gloB),  the  name  of  the  bell  that  Olaf  the  Holy  had 
given  to  St.  Clement's  Church  in  Nidoyce,  hi.  3524 

GODDESS,  -es  (dis,  disir),  or  rather  fairies,  sacrifice  "to,  i.  5o32 — 
the  hall  hallowed  to  them  at  Upsala,  5o33-5i5 

GOI,  the  eighth  month  of  the  heathen  year,  corresponding  to 
Feb.  8-15 — March  10-16,  ii.  ui29 

GOLD  (gull),  poured  through  one  of  the  three  windows  of 
Frey's  mound  at  Upsala  in  payment  of  taxes,  i.  2  321 — K. 
Halfdan  Eystein's  son  paid  in  war  wages  as  many  pennies  of 
gold  as  other  kings  paid  pennies  of  silver,  6930-7o3 — used  for 
ornamenting  idols,  ii.  205s.14  2o623.2(5  2o814 19 — and  figure-heads 
of  warships,  see  Ship — much  wealth  of  gold  appropriated  by 
Olaf  Tryggvison  from  Raud  the  Strong  after  torturing  him  to 
death,  333n.12 

GOLDENHILT  (gullinhjalti),  a  name  sneeringly  given  by 
Thormod  to  the  sword  K.  Olaf  the  Holy  had  given  to  Sigvat 
as  a  Christmas  present,  ii.  4o810  cf.  3377.^ 

GOLDPORT  (Gullvarta,  i,  xpvrf  ™Ptt)),  '"the  gate  of  honour' 
through  which  the  Emperor  had  to  enter  Constantinople 
when  he  returned  in  triumph  to  the  city,  iii.  2  5914.17 


gol — gra]  Index  III  343 

GOLD-RING  (gullhringr,  for  the  arm,  while  a  finger-ring  is 
called  fingrgull,  '  fingergold '),  given  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  to 
an  Irish  peasant  for  the  dog  Vigi,  i.  267mg — a  golden  ring, 
taken  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  from  the  door  of  the  temple  of 
Ladir,  and  presented  by  him  to  Sigrid  the  Haughty,  found 
out,  much  to  her  indignation,  to  be  all  of  base  metal  inside, 
3O910.n  3io9.12 16.29— Earl  Rognvald  gives  a  golden  ring  to  Sig- 
vat,  ii.  1485 — a  thick  gold  ring  K.  Knut's  gift  to  Thorir  01- 
virson,  34225  34314.15 — two  such,  his  gifts  to  Marshal  Biorn, 
37912 — two"  rings  weighing  together  half  a  mark  given  by 
Harald  Hardredy  to  Thorir  of  Steig,  iii.  8630.31 — Magnus  the 
Blind  lays  down  as  a  wager  against  Harald  Gilli's  head  his 
gold  ring,  29721.24  299G.S — a  golden  ring  of  K.  Magnus's  hidden 
in  bishop  Reinald's  boot,  32421 
GOLDSMITHS  (gullsmifcir),  their  way  of  distinguishing  be- 
tween base  and  precious  metals,  i.  3io16.2? 
GOOD  HANDS  (hendr  goSar),  '  said  about  those  men  who  are 
much  endowed  with'  the  art  of  healing  '  that  they  have  good 
hands,'  ii.  38430.33 
GOODLY  WEB  (gufcvefr),  the  costly  stuff  which  in  O.E.  is 
known  as  godweb,  in  O.  Sax.  as  goduwebbi,  Fris.  godwob, 
O.H.G.  gotawebbi,  goduweppi,  gottweppe,  terms  which  cover 
a  variety  of  Latin  appellatives  for  costly  fabrics,  i.  I2016 
GOODMAN,  see  Bonder. 

GOSSIP,  to  become,  to  be  (gera  gu=Ssifjar  vrS,  veita  guSsifjar, 
to  be  sponsor,  pater  spiritualis,  in  baptism),  Olaf  Tryggvison 
acting  as  such  at  the  baptism  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  i.  3ii16  and 
Hallfred  the  poet,  338- 
GRAM  (gramr),  name  given  to  leaders  of  armed  followers  in 
old  days,  while  the  host  they  commanded  were  called  'gramir,' 
infestus,  iratus,  saevus,  i.  3222.23 
GRAITHE  (grerSr),  expeditious,  iii.  2i312 
GRANTS  (veizlur) — 1.  landed  properties  belonging  to  the  king 
placed  at  the  disposal  of  favourites,  and  as  a  rule  chiefly  of  the 
so-called  '  landed  men,'  for  their  maintenance,  in  return  for 
which  they  yielded  the  king  military  and  other  services.    Of 
exceptional  character  were  the  large  grants  conferred  by  K. 
Olaf  Tryggvison  on  his  brother-in-law  Erling  Skialgson,  the 
hersir,  i.  3o8]2.15  ii.  7415  26  cf.  212? — and  also  the  grants  con- 
ferred by  the  Earls  Eric  and  Svein  on  their  brother-in-law  Einar 
Thambarskelfir,  2 2. ,-.,„— likewise,  probably,  the  'great  grants  ' 


344  Index  III  [gra — gro 

bestowed  on  him  by  King  Olaf  of  Sweden,  2 1  iir.18 — Aslak  and 
Skialg,  sons  of  Erling,  received  at  the  hands  of  K.  Knut '  large 
grants'  in  England,  but  of  what  nature  is  not  stated,  2  5530.3.2 
— Harek  of  Thiotta  became  Olaf  the  Holy's  landed  man,  and 
received  from  him  the  same  grants  as  he  had  held  before. 
I9Ii5-i8  cf-  i-  329ti-r — he,  together  with  Thorir  Hound,  on  be- 
coming Knut's  landed  men,  received  'great  grants'  from  him, 
and  Finnfare  besides,  349^ — Kalf  Arnison  had  a  landed  man's 
grants  and  other  honours  besides,  285^  iii.  i2o8.10 — K.  Olaf 
the  Holy  conferred  on  Aslak  Skull  o'  Fitiar  '  a  large  fief  (len) 
and  great  grants,'  the  len  meaning  administrative,  chiefly 
fiscal,  jurisdiction  in  addition  to  the  landed  property  for  per- 
sonal usufruition,  ii.  2i216.ls — Magnus  the  Good  made  grants 
to  men  of  might  on  coming  to  the  throne  of  Norway,  iii.  2828 
— with  landed  man's  right  Wolf  the  Marshal  received  from 
K.  Harald  Sigurdson  a  grant  of  twelve  marks  and  half  a  folk- 
land  in  Thrandheim  beside,  I0415.lg — Hakon  Ivarson  received 
great  grants  from  Svein  Wolfson  and  took  over  command  of 
his  army,  n620.23 — Harald  Gilli  gives  fiefs  (len)  and  grants 
(increased  grants)  to  landed  men  in  order  to  secure  their 
services  of  war,  3iS31-^ig1 — 2.  Of  different  kinds  were  the 
grants,  'veizlur,'  which  K.  Harald  of  Denmark  bestowed  on 
the  sons  of  Eric  Bloodaxe,  they  were  appanages,  and  there- 
fore we  have  translated,  '  veizlur,'  by  '  lands,'  and,  less  exactly, 
by  'fiefs,'  i.  159^  23^ 

GRAPNEL  (stafnle),  perhaps  better,  'hook,'  Lat.  falx,  ii.  6o14 
iii.  4i2lV 

GRASS-GARTH  (grasgarSr),  an  orchard,  a  garden,  i.  8^l7 

GRAVE  (grof),  the,  of  our  Lord,  see  St.  Sepulchre. 

GRAVE-ALE  (erfi),  see  Funeral  feast. 

GREVE  (greifi),  sheriff,  iii.  230^ 

GREYGOOSE  (gragas),  the  name  of  the  code  of  law  which 
K.  Magnus  the  Good  caused  to  be  written,  and  which  was 
still  in  Snorri's  days  in  existence  in  Thrandheim,  iii.  2433.35 

GREY  SKINS  (gra  skinn)  =  grey  wares. 

GREY-WARES  (gra-vara),  calabar  skins,  skins  of  the  squirrel 
as  distinct  from  beaver  and  sable,  ii.  260,3  29Iis-i9 

GRIPPING-TONGS  (spenni-tong),  a  kind  of  pair  of  pincers 
used  in  surgery,  ii.  4424  10 

GROUT  (grautr),  a  mess,  porridge,  a  name  given  in  scorn  by 


GUA — hal]  Index  III  345 

Thormod  the  poet,  at  the  point  of  death,  to  a  decoction  of 
leek  and  other  herbs  for  medicinal  purposes,  ii.  4423 

GUARD,  see  Body-guard. 

GUARD  ON  HORSEBACK  (hestvorSr),  ii.  53- 

GUESTS  (gestir),  a  division  of  the  king's  household,  so  called 
because  they  were  self-bidden  guests  wheresoever  the  king 
chose  to  send  them  on  his  errands,  which  frequently  were  of 
obnoxious  and  hazardous  nature.  They  were  commanded  by 
a  'captain  of  the  guests'  (gestahof^ingi),  ii.  7720 — they  were 
under  special  regulations,  and  had  fixed  wages,  6729.30 — Olaf 
the  Holy  had  thirty  of  these  men  at  his  court,  while  Olaf  the 
Quiet  had  sixty,  6729  iii-  1944 — Olaf  the  Holy  has  Swedish 
tax-gatherers  hanged"  by  his  guests,  ii.  7221.27 — he  sends  six  of 
them  to  slay  Eilif  the  Gautlander,  7725-789 — a  party  of  them 
told  off  at  Sticklestead  to  slay  Ram  of  Vigg,  409l7.2S— Sigurd 
Sigurdson's  advice  to  Magnus  the  Blind  to  send  his  guests 
to  slay  any  landed  men  that  should  hang  back  from  coming 
to  the  king's  aid,  iii.  32o25.30 — K.  Har.  Gilli's  guests  attempt 
the  life  of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  340^-34195 

GUILD,  see  Gilds. 

HAILSTONE  (hagl-kom),  weighing  an  ounce,  i.  27918.19 

HAIR  (har),  Harald  Hairfair's,  by  vow,  left  uncombed  and  un- 
cut for  ten  years,  i.  95^  H75.s — Olaf  the  Holy's  growing 
after  death,  ii.  45531 — regarded  by  Alfiva  a  holy  relic  if  it  did 
not  burn  in  fire,  especially  if  unhallowed,  45614.25 — cut  by 
bishop  Grimkel,  45724 — by  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  iii.  8726 — 
and  the  last  time,  six-and-thirty  years  after  death,  by  K. 
Harald  Sigurdson,  i63n 

HAIR-DRESSING  performed  by  Earl  Rognvald  on  Harald 
Hair  fair,  i.  1 1 73.13 

HALL  OF  THE  GODDESSES  (dfsar  salr;  dfsar,  gen.  sing.,  is 
probably  a  scribal  error,  which  disa  bl6t  (dfsa,  gen.  plur.) 
immediately  preceding  seems  to  show,  apparently  a  temple 
where  the  goddesses,  or  rather  the  fairies,  female  guardian 
spirits,  Norns,  or  even  '  valkyrjur '  were  worshipped  i.  5 1 1 

HALLOWED,  '  that  there  it  was  hallowed '  (at  |>ar  var  heilagt), 
i.e.,  that  worship  of  the  gods  was  going  on,  that  it  was  a 
'holy-tide;'  the  place  where  this  happened  was  called  Hof, 
Temple,  ii.  1463 

HALLOWED  FIRE  (vigBr  eldr),  set  to  tinder  which  was  fixed 


346  Index  III  [hal — har 

to  the  point  of  an  arrow  that  was  shot  at  a  heathen  Wend  on 
whom  on  account  of  his  sorcery  '  no  weapon  bit,'  took  such 
an  effect  that  he  fell  down  dead,  iii.  330^-33 13 

HALLOW,  Hallowing,  see  Consecration  and  Coronation. 

HALSE  (hals),  the  neck  of  the  stout  and  aged  Thorir  Hound 
torn  asunder  when  '  up-reared  the  gallows-tree '  on  which  he 
was  hanged,  iii.  2i213.16 

HAMMER  (hamarr)  of  Thor:  men  who  confessed  believing  in 
nothing  but  their  '  might  and  main '  were  in  the  habit,  before 
quaffing  festive  cups,  to  make  over  them  the  sign  of  Thor's 
hammer,  i.  i6920.23  cf.  ii.  3955.8 — the  image  of  Thor  at  the 
temple  of  Hof  in  Gudbrandsdale  held  a  hammer  in  its  hand, 
ii.  2O510 

HAND-BATH  (hand-laugar),  washing  of  hands,  a  habit  of  Olaf 
the  Holy  as  he  dressed  in  the  morning,  ii.  689 

HANDFASTING  (handfestr),  taking  hands,  in  the  presence  of 
witnesses,  for  an  assurance  of  faithful  execution  of  a  verbal 
promise,  iii.  ii2lT 

HANDSEL  (hand-sal),  formally  agreeing  by  joining  hands  to 
an  oral  contract,  covenant,  or  demand  (in  most  cases  accom- 
panied by  oaths),  ii.  4726-27  l853s  iu-  43h  45925 

HAND-SHOT  (hand-skot),  hurling  a  cast-weapon,  opp.  to 
'  bow-shot,'  a  feat  at  which  Olaf  the  Holy  excelled  all  men, 
ii.  423 — his  son,  Magnus  the  Good,  'shot  hand-shot'  all 
through  the  night  at  the  battle  of  Holy-ness,  iii.  4621.22 

HANGING,  see  Gallows  and  Gallows-tree. 

HANGINGS  (tjold),  of  costly  web  done  round  the  body  of 
Olaf  the?Holy  on  the  occasion  of  his  translation,  ii.  45633- 

457i 
HARALD'S  STICK   (Haralds  stikki),  a  short  poem  on  K. 

Harald  Sigurdson  of  the  kind  called  '  stikki '  (meaning  of  the 

term  uncertain),  iii.  i6821.29 
HARBOUR  (hofn),  a  fortified,  built  by  K.  Eystein  Magnusson 

at  Agdirness,  iii.  26312.13 
HARP  (harpa),  played  at  court  dinners  in  Sweden  in  Olaf  the 

Swede's  time,  ii.  1593 
HARP-PLAYERS   (harparar,  sing,  harpari),  at   the  Swedish 

court  already  in  the  ancient  times  of  the  Ynglings,  i.  3733 
HARP-SHELL  (harpa,  short  for  horpu-skel,  in  order  to  give 

enigmatic    brevity   to   Sveinki's   proverbial    utterance),    the 


hau — he  a]  Index  III  347 

scallop,  pecten,  iii.  2i5ls — the  point  of  the  saying,  '  No  need 
of  roller,  quoth  fox,  drew  harp-(shell)  o'er  ice,'  as  applied 
by  Sveinki  to  Sigurd  Woolstring  is  this:  as  the  feeble  vain 
fox  boasts  of  wanting  no  roller  to  drag  a  scallop  along  smooth 
ice,  so  you  come  swaggering  hither  with  the  light  message  of 
the  king;  but  you  are  the  feeble  vain  fox  all  the  same.' 
HAUNT  (ver,  also,  for  want  of  a  better  word,  translated  '  lair,' 
the  Icelandic  term  is  applied  to  islands  out  at  sea,  where,  in 
consequence  of  the  absence  of  man,  seals  congregate  and 
breed,  sel-ver,  and  birds  gather  and  lay  their  eggs  (egg-ver), 
and  where,  also,  in  the  season,  fishermen  take  up  a  tem- 
porary abode  for  the  pursuit  of  their  industry  (fiski-ver),  ii. 

2924-io  293s-9 
HAWK,  see  Sports. 

HAWKS  (haukar),  considered  suitable  gifts  for  kings,  ii.  2441G 

HAYFORK  (hey-tjuga),  shot  by  a  thrall  at  K.  Day,  killing  him, 

1.    *K  2  - 

HAZELLED  FIELD,  to  pitch  a  (hasla  voll),  to  stake  off  a  field 
with  hazel  poles,  and  thus  mark  it  off  for  a  field  of  battle,  i. 

i774  246x.4 

HEARTH-INGLE,  see  Arinn  under  House,  B. 

HEALTH-CUP  (full),  i.  5922  6o0.r— drunk  at  blood-offerings, 
signed  by  the  temple  lord:  Odin's  cup  for  victory  and  kingly 
dominion ;  Niord's  and  Frey's,  for  plentiful  seasons  and  peace; 
Bragi's  cup;  kinsmen's  cup,  called  'memories'  (minni)  to 
departed  noble  relatives,  i.  i6526-i663  i6914.16  i7i5.6 — Svein 
Twibeard's  memory  cup  to  his  departed  father,  2  725.8 — the 
Jomsburg  lords'  to  their  deceased  fathers  Strut  Harald  of 
Skaney  and  Veseti  of  Borgundholm,  272^.33 — all  cups  signed 
to  the  ^Esir  at  heathen  religious  festivals,  ii.  i937s — cup  to 
Christ,  i.  272^ — cup  to  Michael,  2721S.20 

HEATHCOCK  (orri,  tetrao  tetrix),  hunted  by  hawk,  ii.  i4°2s" 

T4J5  20-21 
HEATHCOCK'S  BRUNT  (orrahri'3),  the  last  effort  of  the 

Norwegians  to  retrieve  the  disaster  of  Stamfordbridge,  lead 

by  Eystein  Heathcock,  iii.  178^-1793 

HEATHEN  BLUEMEN  (herSnir  blamenn),  blackamoors,  iii. 

2522i  254i 
HEATHEN  FOLK,  MEN  (heiSit  f61k),  the  Moors  of  Spain, 

iii.  2  5o30  251!,,,,  2523 


348  Index  III  [hea — hla 

HEATHEN  SPAIN  (Spann  herSni),  the  part  of  Spain  occupied 
by    Moors,    iii.    25i13.]5  23 — Heathen    Sidon,    by   Saracens, 

2573i 
HE-GOAT  (bukkr),  saddled  as  a  riding  horse  by  Olaf  Haraldson 

for  his  stepfather,  Sigurd  Sow,  ii.  319-43 

HEIDS^EVI'S  LAWCODE,  see  Laws. 

HEIDS^VI'S  THING,  see  Thing. 

HEIRSHIP  FEAST  (erfi),  see  Funeral  feast. 

HELL  (hel),  the  name  of  Olaf  the  Holy's  battle-axe,  used  by 
Magnus  the  Good  at  the  battle  of  Lyrshawheath,  iii.  3610  16  19 

HERSIR,  the  head  of  a  '  her,'  i.e.,  of  a  hundred  (120  families?), 
whose  dominion  was  a  '  hera^,'  the  territory  inhabited  by  his 
'  her,'  or  tribe.  His  dignity  was  hereditary,  cf.  Erling's  answer 
on  being  offered  an  earldom  by  his  brother-in-law,  '  Hersirs 
have  all  my  kin  been,'  i.  3o87.s — the  'hersir'  seems  to  have 
combined  in  his  person  the  offices  of  war-commander  and 
religious  head  of  his  tribe,  i.  78^  28  92l7  ii.  2oo19.21  foil. — 
his  position,  duties,  and  rights  under  Harald  Hairfair  de- 
fined, i.  96n.15  cf.  20727  3785 — hersirs  mentioned:  Gudbrand 
of  Gudbrandsdale,  i.  7822  28 — Thorir  Roaldson,  i2819 — Klyp, 
2i520 — Arinbiorn,  237^, — Skopti  Skagison,  24833 — Thorolf 
Skialg  and  Erling  his  son,  3o80.10 — Bodvar,  33409 — Gudbrand 
a-Dales,  ii.  200^  foil. 

HEWING-BLOCK  (hoggstokkr),  'block,'  ii.  22319 

HIERARCHY  in  Norway  making  itself  felt  for  the  first  time 
in  bishop  Magni's  dealings  with  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer, 
iii.  307-3095 

HIGH-MASS,  see  Mass. 

HIGH-TIDE  (hatiS,  O.E.  heah-tid),  church  festival,  feast-day, 

ii-  13114 
HIPPODROME   (pa^reimr,    'nnroSpofxoQ),   at  Constantinople, 

description  of  the  place  and  the  games  performed  there,  iii. 

25928'26°24 

HLAUT,  the  blood  of  animals  sacrificed  at  blood  offerings, 
which  was  let  run  into  a  special  bowl  or  basin,  called  hlaut- 
bolli.  The  word  seems  to  mean  '  lot,'  that  which  is  allotted 
to  the  temple,  the  altars  of  the  gods  and  the  worshippers,  all 
of  which  were  besprinkled  with  the  hlaut  by  means  of  a 
sprinkler,  the  hlaut-teinn.  This  explanation  of  hlaut  is  sup- 
ported by  the  regular  '  ablaut '  relation  in  which  it  stands  to 


hla — hol]  Index  III  349 

the  verb  'hljota,'  to  get  by  lot,  to  obtain  by  allotment,  i. 

l65 16-24 

HLAUT-BOWL  (hlaut-bolli),  see  Hlaut. 

HLAUT-TEIN  (hlaut-teinn),  made  in  the  shape  of  a  sprinkler 
(stokkull),  see  Hlaut. 

HNEITIR,  'Striker,'  the  name  of  the  sword — its  grip  wrapped 
about  with  gold — with  which  Olaf  the  Holy  fought  at  Stickle- 
stead,  and  which  he  threw  away  on  receiving  his  mortal 
wound,  ii.  4i312.14  426;  432i-o  10-11  (in  Poetry  an  appellative 
for  sword,  iii.  310  478) — Eindrid  the  Young's  account  of  the 
history  of  the  sword  until  it  found  its  way  to  St.  Olaf's  church 
in  Constantinople,  where  it  was  put  up  as  a  trophy,  4283- 

42  924 
HOGMANY  NIGHT  (hokunott):  it  is,  of  course,  very  doubtful 

how  far  hdkunott,  defined  as  midwinter  night,  corresponds 
to  Hogmany  night,  the  last  day  of  the  year.    Another  form  is 
hoggunott,   Fris.    7i31   which   comes   nearer  to   the  English 
form.    But  as  midwinter  night  in  Norway  was  the  9th  of  Jan- 
uary, it  is  possible  that  the  resemblance  between  the  Engl, 
and  Icel.  term  is  accidental,  yet  hoku,  hoggu  defies  etymo- 
logical explanation,  and  has  all  the  appearance  of  a  loanword, 
i.  i648 
HOLM-GANG  (holmganga),  lit.  '  the  going  on  to  the  holm  or 
islet,'  the  standing  term  for  a  wager  of  battle,  a  duel,  fought 
out  under  recognized  formalities,  no  matter  whether  the  action 
took  place  on  a  holm  or  not.    These  formalities  the  Kormak 
saga,   ch.    x.,   sets    forth    in    the  following   manner:    "This 
was  the  law  of  holmgang;  there  was  a  rug  (feldr)  five  ells 
between  each  skirt,  with  loops  in  the  corners  through  which 
should  be  driven  pegs  with  a  (human  ?)  head  at  one  end,  the 
which  were  called  tjosnur  (plur.  of  tjasna).    He  who  made 
things  ready  should  go  to  the  tjosnur  in  such  a  manner  that 
he  might  see  the  sky  between  his  legs  holding  to  the  lobes  of 
his  ears,  and  should  utter  the  formulary  which  since  (sfSan) 
is  imitated  in  the  rite  (bldt)  called  "  the  sacrifice  of  the  tjasna 
(tjosnubldt)."  '    Round  the  rug  there  must  be  three  borders, 

1  The  wording  of  the  passage:  '  He  who  made  things  ready,'  etc.,  shows 
that  once  upon  a  time  it  was  the  custom,  when  the  tjosnur  were  adjusted,  to 
utter  some  sort  of  a  formulary,  what  it  was  like  is  unknown.  This  formulary, 
we  are  told,  was  afterwards  imitated  in  that  rite  which  was  called  tjbsnublot, 


350  Index  III  [hol 

each  a  foot  in  width,  and  outside  the  borders  there  must  be 
four  poles,  which  are  called  hazels  (hoslur).1  This  being 
done,  that  is  a  hazelled  field.  Each  man  shall  have  three 
shields,  and  when  they  are  done  for  they  shall  step  upon  the 
rug,  though  before  they  should  have  happened  to  leave  it. 
Thenceforth  their  weapons  shall  be  shield  to  them.  He  who 
is  challenged  shall  have  the  first  blow.  If  one  of  them  be 
wounded  so  that  blood  falls  on  the  rug,  there  is  no  need  of 
further  fighting.  If  either  step  with  one  foot  outside  the 
hazels,  he  "  fares  a-heel,"  if  with  both,  he  "  runs  "  (away).  Be- 
fore each  fighter  his  own  man  shall  hold  a  shield.  He  who  is 
the  more  wounded  shall  pay  as  "holm-ransom  "  (holmlausn) 
three  marks  of  silver." 

Concerning  Egil's  holmgang  with  Liot  the  Bleak  the  Egil's 
saga,  ch.  LXIV,  says :  "  So  they  break  up  and  go  to  the  island 
of  Vors.  There  was  a  fair  field  (fagr  vollr)  a  short  way  up 
from  the  sea,  where  the  '  holm-meeting  '  (h61m  sterna)  should 
be.  A  '  holm-spot '  (holm  sta'Sr)  =  space  for  duelling,  was 
marked  off  there,  and  stones  were  laid  down  around  it. 
These  were  the  laws  of  '  holm-gang '  at  the  time  that  he, 
who  challenged  any  man  for  anything,  and  should  the  chal- 
lenger gain  the  day,  then  should  he  have  that  as  a  trophy  of 
victory  on  which  the  challenge  had  been  issued,  but  should 
he  bide  defeat,  he  must  ransom  himself  with  as  much  money 
as  had  been  settled  beforehand;  but  should  he  fall  on  the 
holm,  he  had  forfeited  all  his  property  to  him  who  felled  him 
on  the  holm."  These  loci  classici  on  holm-gang  show  clearly 
that  there  is  no  '  holm  '  in  question.  The  record  from  Kor- 
mak's  saga  shows  that  the  law  there  stated  does  not  apply  to 

a  rite  obviously  a  later  outgrowth  of  an  earlier  ceremony,  and  clearly  a 
caricature  of  it  in  the  form  of  some  popular  game,  in  which  the  master  of 
the  ceremonies  went  through  the  clownish  performance  which  never  could 
have  formed  an  item  in  the  serious  ritual  of  real  duelling.  What  the  real 
meaning  is  of  the  stem  tjas-  in  tjas-na,  is,  we  believe,  unknown.  Formally 
it  seems  to  be  identical  with  tjos-  in  tjos-ull,  Skim,  mal  39,  of  uncertain 
meaning.  Possibly  there  is  etymological  relationship  between  tjasna 
(=tjastna?)  and  Norw.  dial,  tist,  tistn,  '  a  little  thin  splinter,'  'a  fibre  torn 
loose  on  a  tree,'  '  a  small  sliver  torn  up  in  the  skin '  (Aasen,  cf.  Ross). 

1  This  shows  the  foreign  (Norwegian)  origin  of  this  description.  No  hazel 
ever  grew  in  Iceland,  so  no  duelling  field  could  ever  be  hazelled  off  in  that 
country,  while  in  Norway  and  other  foreign  lands  the  hazelling-in  oilfield 
of  battle,  not  of  a  duelling  spot,  is  common  enough. 


hol — hor]  Index  III  351 

Iceland  at  all,  where  there  never  grew  a  hazel  from  which 
hazel  poles  could  be  made.  The  Egilssaga  holmgang  is 
avowedly  a  Norwegian  performance.  A  wager  of  battle  being 
contested  somewhere  inland  on  an  island  did  not  make  it  a 
holm-gang — an  island  was  no  more  a  holm  than  a  mountain 
was  a  knoll — though  it  was  a  duel.  The  fact  is  that  h61mganga 
is  a  purely  Icelandic  term,  derived  from  the  holm  or  tiny  islet 
in  the  Axe  river  at  Thingvellir,  where,  until  the  abolition  of 
duels,  a.d.  1006,  it  was  lawful  and  customary  to  decide  certain 
cases  by  judicial  combats.  The  public  sanction  of  this  spot 
for  the  purpose  was  probably  as  old  as  the  establishment  of 
the  Althing,  a.d.  930,  which  would  naturally  account  for  the 
use  Icelandic  writers  make  of  holmgang  for  any  formal  duel 
under  any  local  conditions. — From  the  holmgang  mentioned 
in  Heimskringla,  i.  2640-  2666.17  which  took  place  in  Eng- 
land, we  gather  no  information  as  to  the  nature  of  the  locality. 
See  Single  fight. 

HOLY-DAY  (helgr),  Lat.  festum,  church  festival,  ii.  2  2632 

HOLY-TIDE  (helgr),  id.,  rung  in  before  canonically  it  began, 
in  order  to  save  a  criminal's  life,  ii.  2  2624  30 

HOLY  WATER  (vigt  vatn),  sprinkled  over  things  in  order  to 
counteract  the  effects  of  sorcery  on  them,  i.  33130-332! 

HOMAGE  (handganga),  done  in  due  form  when  he,  whose 
homage  was  desired,  took  by  the  grip  the  sword  reached  him 
on  behalf  of  him  who  desired  to  be  his  liege  lord,  i.  i3827- 
i39l.  ii.  i820  2i424__ 

HONEY  (hunang),  iii.  34215 

HORN  (horn). 

1.  A  drinking  vessel:  used  for  infants  to  drink  of,  i.  4312 
— ordinary  drinking  cup,  sometimes  adorned  with  gold, 
io62f).30  and  fair  graven  and  shining  as  glass,  107^ — used  at 
sacrificial  feasts,  i6q10 — customary  for  kings  of  Norway  to 
drink  of  deer-horns  until  the  days  of  Olaf  the  Quiet  (when 
beakers  were  introduced),  iii.  i93ltH7  28620 

2.  Instrument  for  blowing  signals  (h'riSr),  also  translated 
trumpet:  in  use  among  the  Biarms,  ii.  26225 — war-signal, 
424,,  iii.  351S  7o8  3oi30  3443  4434  445l7 

HORN-SWAIN  (luftrsveinn),  trumpeter,  iii.  30i24 
HORSE — 1.  (hross),  occurs  in  Heimskringla  only  when  the 
animal  is  treated  as  a  victim  at  sacrificial  feasts  (in  one  case, 


352  Index  III  [hor — hos 

iii.  i9923  25  27  2S  of  a  mare  (merr),  2oo34  wantonly  cut  down 
at  a  king's  behest),  i.  i6515  ii.  i939.10 
HORSE — 2.  (hestr),  always  signifies  the  animal  living  and  active 
in  the  service  of  man — horses  fit  for  presents  to  a  king,  ii. 
244l7 — horses  of  Gautland  known  for  swiftness,  iii.  29815.16 — 
horse-guard  (hestvorSr),  mounted  guard,  i.  8o10  iii.  3 16^3 — 
horse  training  for  riding  purposes  (ri^a  hesta),  a  kingly  feat 
i.  356.10 — horse  trappings:  forgilded  saddle  (gyltr  so^ull), 
ii.  3423.24 — bit  beset  with  smalts  and  done  with  gold  (bitull 
settr  smeltum  steinum  ok  gyltr),  3424-25 — crupper,  or  rather 
saddle-straps,  i.  116,,- girth  (gagntak),  iii.  2g814— horses 
named:  Slinger  (Slongvir),  Raven  (Hrafn),  the  sire  of  another 
Raven,  all  owned  by  King  Adils  of  Upsala,  i.  5o24..2S— black- 
blazed  horse,  K.  Harald  Sigurdson's  charger  at  the  battle  of 
Stamford  bridge,  iii.  i73s 

HORSE-FLESH  (hrossa-slatr),  with  heathen  worshippers  a 
favourite  repast  at  sacrificial  festivities,  to  Christians  an 
abomination,  as  was  also  the  broth  (so3)  and  the  dripping 
(not)  thereof,  i.  169.^-170-  i?1^  ii-  697— horseliver  (hrossliff), 
i.  1715 

HORSE-WARD,  see  Horse-guard,  Horse,  2. 

HOSPITALITY.  Thorgnyr's  servants  receive  Earl  Rognvald, 
taking  charge  of  his  horses  and  baggage,  ii.  n6M — he  is 
welcomed  by  his  host,  Thorgnyr,  and  led  to  the  seat  where, 
while  he  was  at  fostering  with  Thorgnyr,  he  used  to  sit,  n629 
117, — Ragnhild,  daughter  of  Erling  Skialgson,  shelters  and 
entertains  the  gossip  of  her  daughter  Thora,  Stein  Skaptison, 
in  spite  of  his  being  the  slayer  of  a  king's  official,  and  in 
defiance  of  her  own  husband,  ii.  28or28625 — the  outlaw 
Thorir's  hospitality  to  Thorod  Snorrison,  298^-299^ — Kristin 
king's-daughter  offers  to  Gregory  Dayson,  a  fugitive  from  K. 
Eystein's  revenge,  whatever  he  wishes  for,  providing  him  with 
a  longship  for  his  journey,  iii.  391  s-15 

HOST,  see  Hosting. 

HOSTAGE  (gisl,  gislar),  exchanged  between  the  As-folk  and 
the  Vanir,  i.  1323-145 — Earl  Sigurd,  on  conversion  to  Christ- 
ianity, gives  his" son  as  hostage  to  Olaf  Tryggvison,  29i6.8— 
Upper  Thrandheim  chiefs,  accepting  Christianity,  give  Olaf 
Tryggvison  in  hostage  a  son,  or  brother  or  other  near  kins- 
man^ i.  319.20-20 — Olaf  the  Holy  takes  hostages  from  newly-con- 


hos — hou]  Index  III  353 

verted  chiefs  about  Lesiar  and  Dofrar,  ii.  199.32-24 — K.  Knut 
exacts  hostages  from  Norwegian  bonders  in  pledge  of  their 
loyalty,  34S13 — and  from  landed  men  and  mighty  yeomen 
sons,  brothers  and  near  kinsmen,  34919.23  45*24 — K.  Harald 
Sigurdson  receives  hostages  from  the  men  of  Yorkshire  in 
guaranty  of  loyal  subjection,  iii.  i6923.25  —  in  guaranty  of 
peace  between  Norway  and  Denmark  Erling  Askew  abides  a 
hostage  with  K.  Valdimar,  who  sends  Asbiorn  Snare  in  the 
same  capacity  to  K.  Magnus  Erlingson  of  Norway,  47232-473, 
HOST-BOUND  MEN,  hosting-bound  folk  (letiSangrsmenn)" 
men  summoned  out  for  a  naval  expedition,  iii.  4437  45913 

47ii2 
HOSTEL,  see  Saluhiis  under  House. 

HOSTING  (lerSangr),  a  levy  of  the  service-bound  naval  arma- 
ment of  the  country,  ii.  2874  iii.  2625.31  i2923 — (li^-samna^r), 
a  host  of  disaffected  subjects,  iii.  225 

HOUND  (hundr),  see  Saur. 

HOURS  (ti'Sir),  horae  canonicae,   ii.   5710  2o620   cf.    2o518.20 

327io  iii-  475n 
HOUSE. 

1.  NAMES. 

Dyngja,  'bower'  [the  translation  (i.  1099)  should  read: 
Loathed  warm  bower,  varma  dyngju]  the  women's  apart- 
ment, which  the  poet's  epithet  varma  indicates  as  the  warm 
house  of  a  homestead.  Etymologically  it  must  be  connected 
with  M.H.G.  tunc,  '  hypogeum,  textrina,  gyneceum,'  a  term 
which  still  survives  in  southern  Germany  and  Switzerland 
for  'under-ground  weavers'  shops.'  Already,  speaking  of 
the  spinning  and  weaving  of  flax,  Pliny,  XIX.  i,  2,  avers,  In 
Germania  autem  defossi  atque  sub  terra  id  opus  agunt;  and 
Tacitus,  Germ.  19,  1,  says:  solent  et  subterraneos  specus 
aperire  eosque  multo  insuper  fimo  onerant  suffugium  hiemi 
et  receptaculum  frugibus,  a  statement  which  has  given  rise 
to  the  possibly  correct  etymology  that  M.H.G.  tunc,  Engl.- 
Germ.  dung,  and  Icel.  dyngja,  are  all  cognate  terms.  In 
Icel.  dyngja  means  a  heap,  not  necessarily  of  dung,  repre- 
senting the  shape  of  a  flattened  beehive;  dyngju-fjoll  is  the 
name  given  in  Iceland  to  flatly  dome-shaped  volcanoes; 
some  of  these  mountains  go  under  the  name  of  trolladyngja, 
i.e.  trollwives'  bower,  which  must  be  of  early  date.  This 

VI.  A  A 


354  Index  III  [hou 

form  of  house  seems  to  come  down  from  times  when  man 
had  not  yet  discovered  the  art  of  building  overground,  i. 
ioq9  This  kind  of  house  is  unknown  to  the  authors  of  the 
Eddie  poems. 

Herbergi,  '  chamber,'  '  lodging '  (not  a  purely  Scandinavian 
term,  though  it  is  common  to  all  the  Scand.  idioms :  Norw. 
her-byrge,  O.Sw.  har-barghe,  O.Da.  hser-baerghe,  O.E,  here- 
beorga,  O.H.G.  heri-berga)  does  not  indicate  any  particular 
room,  but  merely  room  or  apartment  in  general,  i.  35i17 
ii.  1 2519  2oo6  passim 

Hir-dstofa,  see  Stofa. 

Hla^a,  kornhla^a,  'barn,'  'cornbarn,'  in  Jamtland,  ii. 
29^e-7 — at  Sticklestead  turned  into  a  temporary  hospital 
for  wounded  men,  ii.  4393  31 

Holl,  'hall '(O.E.  heal,  orig.  shelter,  from  helan,  to  cover) 
occurs  only  as  a  name  of  palatial  residences  of  kings:  K. 
Alfs  at  Upsala,  i.  3629;  King  Olaf  the  Holy's  at  Sarpsburg, 
ii.  i49s  and  K.  Eystein  Magnusson's  great  hall  erected  at 
Bergen,  iii.  263^ 

Huskytja,  'house-cot,'  a  small  outhouse;  the  body  of  Olaf 
the  Holy  hidden  in  one  such  at  Sticklestead  immediately 
after  his  fall,  ii.  444^ 

Lopt,  'loft,'  an  upper  storey,  the  first  floor;  also  a  compart- 
ment or  division  of  such  a  storey.  In  K.  Frodi's  great  home- 
stead at  Hleithra,  Fiolnir,  K.  of  Sweden,  slept  in  one 
division  or  compartment  of  the  first  storey,  and  in  the  dark 
of  night  lost  his  way  by  an  outside  gallery  into  another 
division,  loft,  of  the  same,  and  there,  falling  through  an 
open  trap-door,  found  his  death  in  a  great  mead-vat,  i.  2427- 
2  520 — Raud  the  Strong  was  sleeping  in  a  loft  in  his  house 
in  Godisle  when  Olaf  Tryggvison  surprised  him,  i.  332l7 — 
at  Ness,  in  Upper  Gudbrand's  dale,  K.  Olaf  the  Holy  slept 
'  in  a  certain  loft  .  .  .  which  stands  yet  to-day  and  nought 
hath  been  done  to  it  since,'  ii.  2oo6.7 — Erling  slept  in  a  loft 
at  his  manor  of  Soli  when  Skialg  his  son  brought  the  news 
of  the  peril  of  his  nephew  Asbiorn  at  Ogvaldsness,  ii.  2  2410 
— loft  on  tie-beams  in  a  hostel  in  the  Wilderness,  ii.  3oo9.10 
— Nicolas  Skialdvorson  chooses  the  loft  in  his  residence  at 
Nidoyce  for  a  fort  wherefrom  to  defend  himself  against  the 
Birchlegs,  iii.  48239-4837 


HOU] 


Index  III  355 


Malstofa,  see  Stofa. 

Naust,  see  Boat-shed  under  Ships,  4. 

Ofnstofa,  see  Stofa. 

Salerni,  'privy,'  large,  on  posts,  admittance  by  a  flight  of 
steps,  ii.  i2  723.25 

Salr,  'hall'  (0\H.G.  sal,  G.  saal,  O.E.  salu,  sele,  Fr.  salle, 
It.  and  Sp.  sala),  a  large,  palatial  building,  a  royal  hall. 
The  typical  hall  with  this  name  was  '  Upsalr,'  i.  5797.2s  5812 
in  imitation  of  which  Ingiald  Evilheart  erected  the  seven 
kings'  salr  at  Upsala,  572(3.30  58s  10  33 — as  a  synonym  for 
holl,  a  king's  palace,  ii.  i49u 

Saluhus,  'hostel,'  lit.  'salvation  house,'  a  shanty  erected  by 
the  roadside  in  wildernesses  to  serve  as  shelter  for  benighted 
travellers,  ii.  300!  9.n  3oi3.s 

Sel,  ii.  3640,3  and 

Setr,  'mountain-bothy,'  where,  in  summer,  a  part  of  the  family 
went  from  the  homestead  to  keep  the  dairy  stock  on 
mountain  pasture,  and  to  store  up  dairy  produce,  which 
was  flitted  home  as  it  accumulated,  the  bothy  being  evacu- 
ated at  the  end  of  the  summer  season,  ii.  3668  n  14  24 

Skali,  '  hall,'  probably  from  '  skal,'  a  bowl  (upside  down),  the 
bowl-shaped  house,  the  dome-formed  habitation.  If  this 
is  right,  the  name  would  relegate  the  original  architecture 
of  the  skali  to  the  primitive  times,  when  the  dyngja  style 
was  in  vogue.  The  original  sense  of  the  word  seems  to 
imply  an  unfurnished  shed.  In  Heimskringla  the  skali  does 
service  chiefly  as  a  large  dormitory :  that  of  Haki  in  Hada- 
land  being  the  sleeping  apartment  of  his  house-carles,  i. 
8217.18 — a  skali  was  also  the  sleeping  accommodation  of  the 
house-carles  of  Raud  the  Strong  in  Godisle,  i.  33220.21 — Olaf 
the  Holy  built  within  his  residence  at  Nidoyce  a  large  skali 
for  a  dormitory  to  his  body-guard,  ii.  683 — on  account  of  its 
size  this  skali  could  easily  on  occasion  be  turned  into  a 
banqueting  hall  or  guest-chamber,  for  which  purpose,  how- 
ever, it  also  seems  to  have  been  specially  built.  To  this 
kind  must  be  referred  the  great  hall  of  Thorkel  Foster-father 
at  Sandwick  in  Orkney,  with  doors  at  either  end,  and  fires 
burning  on  the  floor,  ii.  1 77x  14.20 — of  this  class  of  halls, 
were  also  the  two  banqueting  halls  of  the  wealthy  goodman 
Aki  in   Vermland,   where  he  entertained    the    Kings   of 


356  Index  III  [hou 

Norway  and  Sweden,  i.  io621-io73 — in  one  case  it  is  applied, 
in  its  more  primitive  sense,  to  an  almost  unfurnished  hostel 
in  the  wilderness,  the  above-mentioned  saluhus,  ii.  3oil7 

Skemma,  '  bower,'  the  short  house,  from  skammr,  short;  the 
reason  for  the  name  probably  being  that,  in  comparison 
with  the  skali,  or  the  stofa,  this  storehouse  was  always  of  a 
much  smaller  size,  even  as  the  case  is  still  in  Iceland. 
Imprisoned  in  Jamtland  in  such  a  skemma,  with  a  grof, 
pit,  or  cellar  in  the  floor,  locked  by  a  door,  i.e.  a  trap- 
door, gluggr,  Thorod  Snorrison  found  there,  amongst  other 
household  articles,  both  raiment  and  reindeer  skins,  which 
points  to  the  use  this  storehouse  served,  ii.  29659-2984 — at 
Sticklestead,  a  skemma  '  outhouse '  with  fires  on  the  floor 
was  turned  into  a  temporary  military  hospital,  ii.  44o16.21 — 
when  a  house  had  an  upper  storey,  and  the  ground  floor 
wholly,  or  in  part,  was  reserved  for  other  purposes  than 
occupation  by  the  family,  it  was  called  undir-skemma, 
under-croft — at  K.  Frodi's  it  was  a  sort  of  wine-cellar,  i. 
2430.31 — in  Oslo,  in  the  winter  of  1062-3,  an  undir-skemma 
is  mentioned  as  a  sort  of  tavern,  iii.  14321 — *ne  uti-skemma, 
'out-bower,'  beside  other  purposes,  also  served  that  of  a 
sleeping  apartment,  i.  1363 

Stofa,  Stufa,  variously  translated  'chamber,'  'guest-cham- 
ber,' 'hall,'  'house,'  'lodging;'  a  building,  the  name  of 
which  is  found,  in  various  forms,  not  only  throughout  the 
Germanic  languages,  but  far  and  wide  beyond.  (Dan.  stuve, 
stue;  Sw.  stobo,  stuga;  Norw.  Faro,  stova;  O.E.  stofa;  cf.  E. 
stove;  Duch.  stoof;  O.H.G.  stuba;  M.H.G.  stube;  Low 
Lat.  stuba;  It.  stufa;  Fr.  etuve;  as  a  Germ,  loanword:  Fin. 
tupa;  Lith.  stuba;  O.  Slov.  istuba,  izba;  Hung,  szoba; 
Turk,  soba — Kluge.)  This  was  the  principal  house  in  the 
complex  of  buildings  which  constituted  a  homestead  in 
the  country;  in  towns  it  was  the  chief  apartment  in  a 
house,  or  it  was  built  separately  as  a  stofa. 

In  general  the  stofa  was  the  sitting  and  dining-room  of  the 
family,  i.  35i18  ii.  445n  iii-  *398  48518— it  also  did  service 
as  a  sleeping  apartment,  chiefly  for  guests,  i.  9228  28612.13 
19  ii.  34418  hi.  475i8  47610 — from  its  size  it  naturally  served 
as  the  room  where  occasionally  entertainments  and  banquets 
were  given  to  invited  guests,  veizlu-stofa — as  when  Sigrid 


HOU] 


Index  III  357 


the  Haughty  entertained  in  her  '  old '  stofa  and  burnt  with- 
in it  Harald  the  Grenlander  and  Vissavald,  her  two  wooers, 
i.  286^.,! — and  when  the  common  room  at  K.  Sigurd  Sow's 


'9-21 


manor  "was  turned  into  banqueting  hall  to  receive  Olaf  the 
Holy  and  his  company,  the  decorations,  hangings,  bankers, 
etc.,  being  got  out  and  put  up  for  the  occasion,  ii.  3412-20 
37„ — of  this  description  seems  also  to  have  been  the  stofa 
of  "the  priest  at  Rydiokul,  in  which  he  gave  a  banquet  to 
Earl  Erling  Askew,  iii.  47518  47610 — likewise  that  of  Rafn- 
ness,  where  K.  Magnus  Erlingson  repaired  with  many  men 
after  the  battle  of  Re,  iii.  485^ — specially  built  for  social 
gatherings  were  the   '  drinking-chambers,'  drykkju-stofur, 
guild-houses,  iii.  2864  25.26 — and  for  banqueting  purposes, 
the  halls,  stofur,  of  the  kings,  both  those  at  the  royal 
manors  in  the  country  and  those  in  the  towns  where  the 
kings   set  up   their  chief  residence.    Manorial   halls   are 
mentioned  at  Fitiar  in  the  island  of  Stord,  i.  i8i19 — at  Og- 
valdsness  in  the  isle  of  Kormt,  ii.  2  2  29  25 — besides  one  the 
locality  of  which  is  not  mentioned,  ii.  i2  53.5 — lastly,  there 
were  the  palaces,  'court-halls,'  hirSstofur,  in  the  towns 
where  the  kings  had  a  more  or  less  constant  residence: 
Olaf  the  Holy's  at  Nidoyce,  of  large  dimensions,  with  a  door 
at  either  end,  which  seems  to  mean,  through  the  side-wall 
that  faced  the  ordinary  approach  to  the  house,  near  to 
either  gable  end,  but  not  through  the  gables  themselves ; 
this  hall  was  built  in  the  old  fashion  with  the  two  high- 
seats,  the  upper  (nobler)  and  the  lower  (less  noble)  set  up 
against  the  middle  of  the  side-walls,  and  directly  facing 
each  other,  ii.  6716.20 — the  old  arrangement  of  the  'court- 
hall  '  underwent,  at  the  instance  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  a  radical 
change,  in  that  the  royal  high-seat  was  removed  from  the 
middle  of  the  side  wall  up  to  the  centre  of  the  dais  at  the 
further  gable  end,  while  the  lower  high-seat  was  moved 
away  from  the  side-wall  into  the  middle  of  the  floor,  out 
from  the  '  trapeza,'  where  it  acquired  the  name  of  Marshals'- 
stool,  stallara-st611,  iii.  1923.7  i9313.14— K.  Olaf  changing  the 
mode  of  warming  up  the  hall  from  fires  burning  on  hearths 
along  the  floor  to  ovens  heated  for  the  purpose,  halls  so 
warmed  were  called  halls  with  ovens,  ofn-stofur,  iii.  i928 — 
distinct   from  the  banqueting  hall  was  the  malstofa   or 


358  Index  III  [hou — thi 

council  chamber  where  kings  and  magnates  gave  audience 
and  judicial  decisions;  such  was  the  large  hall  that  Olaf  the 
Holy  had  built  at  Nidoyce  adjoining  his  residence,  where 
he  used  to  hold  court  councils,  hirSstefnur,  ii.  683.5 — this 
is  the  same  hall  which  further  on  is  called  Thing-house, 
Jjinghtis,  and  where  K.  Olaf  gave  audience  to  emissaries  from 
Sweden,  ii.  7o29 — this,  too,  was  probably  the  same  malstofa, 
with  a  luffer  over  which  a  shutter,  fjol,  could  be  turned 
so  as  to  darken  the  room,  in  which  Harald  Hardredy  had 
Einar  Thambarskelfir  slain,  iii.  io9lV.22— Thorgnyr,  the 
great  lawman  of  Tenthland,  gave  audiences  and  heard  cases 
in  a  separate  malstofa,  ii.  1 1 75.6 — strange  enough,  the  term 
stofa  or  stufa  never  occurs  in  the  Eddie  poems. 

SvEFN-BtJR,  '  sleeping-bower,'  the  baresark's  Haki  of  Hada- 
land,  i.  8219 
2.  THINGS  CONNECTED  WITH  A  HOUSE. 

Arinn,  'hearth,'  name  of  the  oblong  rectangular  fireplaces 
which  anciently  ran  along  the  middle  of  the  floor  in 
northern  halls,  i.  5i34 — (arins  horn),  fireplace  corner, 
'  hearth-ingle,'  fireside,  ib. 

Ass,  '  roof-tree,'  '  sooty  '  because  the  smoke  from  the  hearth 
gathered  on  the  rafters  of  the  hall-roof,  i.  5133.34 

BorS,  'board,'  'table,'  (matborS),  meat-board,  iii.  i925  n823 
cf.  24 — movable,  set  up  for  meals,  and  removed  when  meals 
were  finished :  setja  borS,  to  set  the  table  up,  lay  out  the 
table,  i.  833  ii.  3418  iii.  i399.10  33 — also:  setja  borS  fram, 
iii.  29422 — taka  ofan  borS,  to  take  away  the  board,  i.  i823 — 
borS  eru  uppi  (boards  are  drawn),  tables  are  removed,  iii.  204 
267c,  cf.  ii.  22621,  where  'the  tables  still  standing'  should 
read  '  the  tables  being  removed.'  In  front  of  the  high-seat 
was  the  hassetis-borS,  high-seat  table,  ii.  2  2  21327 — with  the 
table  went  the 

Bor^-buna^r,  'board-array,'  'table-gear,'  'table  service,' i. 
io628  ii.  22232  34i20 — table  service  of  great  magnificence 
secured  for  Olaf  the  Holy  from  Holmgarth  (Russia),  ii. 
8219.20 — of  objects  constituting  the  'board-array'  there  are 
mentioned  only 

Bor^-dukr,  'table-cloth,'  ii.  2222S  32 — (dukr)  'towel,'  iii. 
1 3926— and 

Bor^-ker,  or  simply  ker,  '  board-bowls,' '  board-beakers,'  as 


THl] 


Index  III  359 


well  as  (horn)  '  horns,'  sometimes  '  gilt  and  fairly  fashioned,' 
or  'all  done  about  with  gold,  fair-graven  and  shining  as 
clear  as  glass,'  i.  io62S-io72 — the  'board  beakers'  of  the 
king  were  held,  and  filled  at  need  by  royal  pages  standing 
before  the  high-seat  table,  ii.  385^  iii.  I939  33512.13  so-si 
(3361.3)-  On  festive  occasions  the  hall,  skali  or  stofa,  as  the 
case  might  be,  was  '  dressed  up '  with  the 

Buna^r  or  husbuna^r,  'gear,'  'house-gear,'  which  was  got 
out  from  the  household  wardrobe  and  put  up  in  the  shape 
of  (tjold) '  hangings  '  and  bankers  or  seat-coverings  (biinaftr 
um  bekki),  i.  io624.25  ii.  3416 — in  the  hall  of  Olaf  the  Holy 
at  Sarpsburg  Sigvat  notices  as  a  striking  addition  to  the 
'hiisbunaSr'  that  the  walls  were  hung  with  'byrnies  and 
helms,'  ii.  i498.l7 

Dyrr.  Access  to  the  hall  was  obtained  by  the  dyrr  '  door,' 
doorway,  some  halls  having  a  door  at  either  end.  This 
cannot  mean  that  the  doors  led  in  through  the  gable  ends 
of  the  house,  but  that  they  were  on  the  wall  which  formed 
the  frontage  of  the  house,  at  either  end  near  to  the  gables. 
This  is  stated  to  have  been  the  case  with  the  hir^stofa  of 
Olaf  the  Holy  in  Nidoyce,  ii.  67l7.is— and  with  Thorkel 
Fosterfather's  skali  at  Sandwick  in  Orkney,  1 77116 — the  door 
was  locked  by  a  (hurS)  [Goth,  haurds,  O.E.  hyrdel,  M.E. 
hurdel,  M.H.G.  hurt,  G.  hiirde,  Du.  horde],  ii.  2  2  212 — the 
door  of  a  saluhus,  ii.  30i16 — the  door  of  the  Temple  of 
Ladir,  where  the  huriS  was  adorned  with  what  was  supposed 
to  be  a  massive  ring  of  gold,  i.  3O910 — the  door  of  a  bed- 
room bolted  from  within,  iii.  3435 — -in  houses  it  was  fitted 
in  a  door-frame;  'door-posts'  (gaetti),  ii.  3oil7 

Eldar,  '  fires,'  burning  on  the  arinn,  the  fuel  being  firewood, 
ski$  ii.  44o19.20  44i7.10,  by  which,  'litten,'  ale  should  be 
drunk,  and  round  which  ale  was  borne  from  the  high-seat 
to  those  whom  the  occupier  of  the  high-seat  wished  to  toast, 
67.,,;  i7714.15  iii.  i925.0  i9319 — and  against  which  it  was 
customary  to  '  bake '  one's  self  (bakask),  iii.  485^ 

Fjol,  '  shutter,'  by  means  of  which  the  luffer  could  be  shut 
and  opened,  iii.  io9.n 

Forstofa,  'porch,'  'forehall,'  mod.  Eng.  'hall,'  the  entrance 
hall  into  which  admission  was  obtained  through  the  '  door,' 
and  which  in  its  turn  communicated  directly  with  the  main- 
hall,  ii.  2  2  210  34422 


360  Index  III  [thi 

Gluggr,  'window,'  originally  an  opening  through  which  things 
were  dropped  into  the  house — such  were  the  windows 
(gluggar)  of  Frey's  mound  at  Upsala,  i.  2  316 — later  the 
windows  served  the  purpose  of  admitting  air  and  light  into 
the  building,  as  probably  did  the  lopt-gluggar,  loft-windows, 
i.e.  windows  on  the  first  floor,  mentioned,  iii.  38qi:i.12 — once 
gluggr  stands  for  a  trap-door  leading  down  to  a  grof,  '  pit ' 
or  cellar  in  an  out-house,  ii.  29630.31  29716  24 

Golf,  'floor,'  of  a  hall  was  covered  with  halmr  'haulm,' 
straw,  ii.  341(3.17 — and  the  floors  of  royal  halls  were  'strawed' 
in  that  manner  through  the  winter,  but  after  the  mode  of 
heating  by  open  fires  was  changed  to  warming  by  means  of 
stoves  by  Olaf  the  Quiet,  the  floor  was  straw-covered  both 
winter  and  summer,  iii.  1923 — gdlf  is  otherwise  also  used 
of  the  floor  of  an  upper  storey,  ii.  29720 

Grof,  '  pit,'  a  cellar  under  a  skemma,  admission  to  which  was 
by  a  trapdoor,  cf.  gluggr,  ii.  29630  3973  9  16  24  33 

Has/ETI  and  ondugi,  high-seat.  In  Heimsknngla  the  dis- 
tinction is  maintained  throughout,  that  hasaeti  is  the  seat 
of  a  king,  while  ondugi  is  that  of  untitled  persons.  Thus, 
while  in  the  new-built  hall  of  Olaf  the  Holy  his  own  seat 
is  called  a  hasaeti,  the  seat  of  his  marshal  opposite  goes  by 
the  name  of  ondugi  (the  expression  i  o^ru  ondugi,  in  the 
other  high-seat,  indicating  that  now  the  hasaeti  of  the  king 
was  where  formerly  the  ondvegi  on  the  higher,  more 
noble,  bench  or  dais,  ondvegi  a  ce'Sra  bekk,  had  its  place) 
ii.  6718.24 — Thorgnyr  the  great  'lawman's'  high-seat  is  called 
ondugi,  not  hasaeti,  1 1624 — it  seems  to  have  become  fashion 
in  the  eleventh  century  to  distinguish  the  seat  of  a  king  and 
an  earl  by  the  term  hasaeti  from  that  of  untitled  dignitaries, 
which  went  under  the  traditional  and  time-honoured  title 
of  ondugi,  cf.  Burnt  Nial,  ii.  i2il7.19  where  Flosi  remon- 
strates: '  I  am  neither  king  nor  earl,  and  there  is  no  need 
to  make  a  high-seat,  hasaeti,  for  me  to  sit  on  ...  to  make 
a  mock  of  me.5 

The  hasaeti  occupied  the  place  in  the  hall  where  the 
ondugi  always  had  been,  and  still  remained  in  halls 
generally  after  the  distinctive  term  hasaeti  had  been  intro- 
duced. Its  place  was  the  centre  of  that  bench  or  dais  which 
ran  along  one  of  the  side-walls  of  the  hall.  This  old  position 


thi]  Index  III  361 

of  the  high-seat  was  shifted  by  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet  to  the 
dais  athwart  the  hall  at  its  upper  end.  The  lower  high-seat, 
which  hitherto  had  stood  opposite  to  the  king's  seat,  was 
now  moved  from  the  side-dais  unto  the  middle  of  the  floor, 
and  exchanged  the  name  of  annat  ondugi  for  that  of 
Marshal's  stool,  stallara-st611,  the  occupiers  of  which  faced 
those  in  the  high-seat.  This  radical  change  in  the  disposi- 
tion of  the  seats  of  honour  was  really  due  to  the  adoption 
of  a  new  method  of  warming  halls,  which  was  effected  by 
means  of  ovens,  built  of  stones  (iii.  389m3),  whereby  the 
long-fires  (langeldar),  burning  on  an  oblong  hearth  (arinn) 
along  the  middle  of  the  floor,  were  done  away  with.  High- 
seats  (hasaeti)  in  royal  halls  are  mentioned  as  early  as  the 
days  of  K.  Alf,  i.  3630 — seven  high-seats  in  the  Seven  Kings' 
Hall  built  by  Ingiald  Evilheart,  5726.30  587.9— King  Granmar 
shows  his  guest  K.  Hiorvard  to  the  high-seat  (here  called 
hasaeti,  not  ondvegi)  opposite  to  his  own,  5929.31 — at  blood- 
offerings  the  chief  or  lord  of  the  people  occupied  the  high- 
seat  in  the  temple,  i6q1cku  i7oG— Olaf  the  Holy  is  led  to 
the  high-seat  in  K  Sigurd's  stofa  on  returning  to  Norway 
to  claim  the  kingdom,  ii.  3714.1S — the  high-seat  arrange- 
ments in  his  new  hall  at  Nidoyce  described,  6719.24 — he 
shares  his  high-seat  with  his  blinded  kinsman,  K.  Rcerek, 
I23i7 — William  of  Normandy  admits  Harald  Godwinson  to 
the  high-seat  occupied  by  himself  and  his  spouse,  iii.  i5615.17 
— Olaf  the  Quiet's  alterations  of  the  high-seat  arrangement 
in  the  hall,  i923.8  i9313.16— K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  seized 
with  frenzy  in  the  high-seat,  28816-28912  29-29o7 

The  high-seat  as  a  point  to  which  symbolic  ceremonies 
were  linked :  K.  Hrollaug  of  Naumdale  rears  a  kingly  high- 
seat  on  the  mound  where  as  kings  he  and  his  brother  used 
to  be  sitting,  and  rolls  himself  from  it  unto  the  cushioned 
foot-pace  whereon  earls  where  in  the  habit  of  sitting,  where 
he  took  his  seat  and  gave  himself  the  name  of  earl,  then 
volunteered  to  become  K.  Harald  Hairfair's  man,  who  '  led 
him  into  the  high-seat'  and  appointed  him  his  Earl  of 
Naumdale,  i.  9730-9813— on  the  decease  of  a  king  or  titled 
lord  the  high-seat  must  be  left  unoccupied  until  the  suc- 
cessor had  given  his  heirs  hip-feast  and  drunk  the  cup  of 
Bragi,  when  he  was  free  to  take  possession  of  it,  i.  581222 


362  Index  III  [thi 

2725-s — on  appointing  his  son  Eric  over-king  over  Norway, 
K.  Har.  Hairfair  led  him  into  the  high-seat  in  symbolic 
ratification  of  the  act,  i4i25.27  cf.  29.30 — on  appointing  his 
son  Horda-Knut  King  of  Denmark,  K.  Knut  the  Mighty 
observes  exactly  the  same  ceremony,  ii.  349]7-19 — on  in- 
vesting Svein  Wolfson  with  earldom  over  Denmark,  K. 
Magnus  the  Good  leads  him  from  the  foot-stool  into  the 
high-seat  beside  himself,  following  a  ceremony  closely  re- 
sembling that  observed  by  K.  Harald  Hairfair  in  the  case 
of  Hrollaug,  iii.  30^  21.26  31^ 

Hlid,  '  gate,'  closed  with  a  door,  in  a  wooden  fence  round  a 
heathen  sanctuary,  ii.  26i]9  21 

Ker,  see  Bordker. 

Hurd,  see  above,  under  '  Dyrr.' 

Hvila,  'bed,'  i.  28425  (where  'chamber'  goes  out),  32214  iii. 

3oo20 

Lj6ri,  '  luffer,'  opening  in  roof  to  let  out  smoke,  and  to  let 
in  light,  wide  enough  for  a  man  to  creep  through,  i.  3134 — 
provided  with  a  shutter,  fjol,  which  could  be  turned  over 
it  at  will  to  darken  the  room,  iii.  io921 

Matbor^,  '  meat-board,'  see  Bor3. 

Ofn,  '  oven,'  introduced  in  Norway  by  Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  1923 
built  of  stones,  389^  483^ 

Ondugi,  see  High-seat. 

Pallr,  'dais,'  iii.  33820  33910 — (annarr  pallr)  'lower  bench,' 
or  the  less  honourable  dais,  ii.  i2515 — (lang-pallr)  'long- 
dais,'  the  elevation  running  along  either  side  of  a  hall  on 
which  the  seats  of  the  hall  were  arranged,  iii.  1925 — (hapallr) 
'  high-dais,'  the  elevation  athwart  a  hall,  at  the  upper  end 
of  it  on  which,  at  the  instance  of  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet,  the 
high-seat  was  set  up  instead  of  in  the  centre  of  the  long  dais, 
192,. — (kr6k-pallr)  'cross-dais,'  seems  to  refer  to  the  angle 
where  high-dais  and  long-dais  joined,  48500 — (pallstokkr) 
dais-stock,  the  stock  or  plank  that  formed  "the  outer  edge 
of  the  pallr,  4863 

Rekkja,  'bed'  [perhaps  connected  with  rakkr,  Sw.  rak,  straight, 
stretched,  cf.  Engl,  stretcher],  i.  31504  322is  n-  3°°s — some- 
times a  rekkja  was  fronted  by  a  fbtaskor  '  foot-board '  that 
could  serve  for  a  seat,  i.  31525 

S/eng,  '  bed,'  hung  with  pall  (tjoldu'S,  pellum),  and  arrayed 


thi — hou]  Index  III  363 

with    dear-bought    clothes,    buin    dyrligum    klas'Sum,    i. 

284o5.2t5 

Set,  '  settle,'  used  for  a  bed  in  a  wayside  hostel  in  the  wilder- 
ness, ii.  29829.31  3oo2ti 

Skapker,  '  a  large  bowl,'  from  which  drink  was  poured  into 
drinking  vessels  and  served  out  to  the  company,  ii.  34l7 18 

Slagbrandr,  '  bolt '  of  a  gate  in  the  fence  of  a  rustic  sanctu- 
ary, ii.  26i23 

Stallara-st6ll,  '  marshal's-stool,'  the  seat  which  in  the  royal 
halls  of  Norway,  from  the  reign  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  was  substi- 
tuted for  the  old  high-seat  on  the  middle  lower  bench.  The 
Marshal's  seat  was  placed  in  the  middle  of  the  floor  further 
down  than  the  trapeza;  it  was  occupied,  besides  the  Mar- 
shal, by  those  of  the  court  dignitaries  who  came  in  rank 
next  after  those  who  sat  on  either  side  of  the  king  in  his 
high-seat  on  the  dais  at  the  upper  end  of  the  hall,  iii. 

1 93i3-i6  cf-  n-  67is-24 
Tjold  (sg.  tjald),  '  hangings,'  n.  S4W 

Trapiza,  rpdireZa,  '  table/  on  which  was  placed  the  '  skapker,' 
or  'great  bowl,'  and  at  which  washing  of  hands  before  and 
after  meals  probably  also  took  place  (cf.  Fms.  viii.  i312.15) 
— it  stood  on  the  floor  some  way  down  the  hall,  and  after 
the  changes  in  the  seat  arrangements  of  the  hall  introduced 
by  Olaf  the  Quiet,  it  occupied  a  position  between  the  king's 
high-seat  and  the  marshal's  chair,  ii.  34l7  iii.  i9313 
)2ekja,  '  thatch,'  of  (reyr)  '  reed '  or  (halmr) '  straw  '  (in  Sicily), 

iii.  6421.22 
]5vertre,  cross-  or  tie-beams,  on  which,  in  a  wayside  hostel, 
a  loft  was  built  for  sleeping  accommodation,  ii.  3oo10 
HOUSE-CARLES  (huskarlar),  i.  generally:  free-born  men  in 
service,  attending  on  their  master,  often  in  the  capacity  of 
fighting  men;  Haki's  house-carles  were  provided  with  his  hall 
for  dormitory,  i.  8218 — Eyvind's  house-carles  and  tenants  at- 
tend him  on  a  '  row-boat '  trip  in  quest  of  household  supplies, 
2i9l7 — Raud  the  Strong  had  many  house-carles  and  a  nume- 
rous retinue  of  Finns,  32913.15— Ketil  of  Ringness  took  with  him 
forty  of  his  own  house-carles  for  the  surprise  of  the  Upland 
kings,  ii.  107,;  12.13 — Lawman  Thorgnyr's  house-carles  form  a 
sort  of  body-guard  round  him  at  Upsala  Thing,  ii.  n820 — 
Thorir  Hound  mans  a  longship  of  his  with  wellnigh  eighty  house- 


364  Index  III  [hou 

carles,  2  592.4 — Thrando'  Gate's  house-carles,  ten  or  twelve  of 
them,  take" a  ship  of  his  on  a  risky  voyage  to  Norway,  2  7o15.21 
— Harek  of  Thiotta  sends  a  row-ferry  manned  with  a  dozen 
of  his  house-carles  to  rob  an  island  belonging  to  Asmund 
Grankelson,  293,3-2945  cf.  292^— he  goes  into  viking  warfare 
on  a  cutter  of  twenty  benches  manned  with  his  house-carles, 
2932529 — Thorir  Hound  mans  a  longship  with  his  house- 
carles"  in  order  to  oppose  Olaf  the  Holy,  38709.30  388s-n — 
Olaf  the  Holy  quotes  the  Icelandic  custom  of  masters  giving 
their  house-carles  a  harvest  treat  by  slaughtering  a  wether  for 
them,  4o920.23 — Thorir  Hound  selects  a  body  of  eleven  of 
his  house-carles  to  form  his  guard  at  the  battle  of  Stickle- 
stead,  42i15.l7 — Kalf  Arnison  ranges  his  house-carles  under 
his  own  banner  at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  4237— house- 
carles  stand  firm  in  battle  with  landed  men  when  '  bonders ' 
flee,  42  8s.9 — Kalf  Arnison  mans  a  twenty-bencher  with  his 
house-carles,  463^— he  flees  from  Norway,  going  on  viking 
cruise  in  a  ship  manned  by  his  house-carles,  iii.  2ou.13  31-2i13 
— Einar  Thambarskelfir  had  more  house-carles  even  than  an 
earl,  io822.23 — Finn  Arnison  has  a  following  of  wellnigh  eighty 
house-carles  of  his  own,   ii34.5 — K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer 
summons  to  him  landed  men  and  their  house-carles  on  the 
chance  of  having  to  give  battle  to  his  brother,  2  7416.18 — house- 
carles  are  referred  to,  in  King  Ingi's  state-paper  to  the  men  of 
Thrandheim,  in  respect  of  political  franchise  as  on  the  level 
with  'landed  men  '  and  'court  men,'  3 5 924— Gregory  Dayson 
treated  his  house-carles  better  than  other  landed  men,  making 
them  drink  with  him  at  gilds,  and  providing  them  with  helmets 
when  they  attended  him  at  Things,  38616.20  cf.  387^.33 — feud 
between  the  house-carles  of  Gregory  and  K.  Sigurd  Haraldson, 
387911 — affray  between  house-carles  at  Biorgvin,  417.^4183 — 
the  house-carles  of  Haldor  of  Vettland  hewn  down  fighting 
with  their  master,  419^— after  the  fall  of  Gregory  Dayson 
and  K.  Ingi,  Erling  Askew  appeals  to  the  house-carles  of  the 
former  to  join  the  party  opposed  to  Hakon  Shoulderbroad, 
435n — they,  as  well  as  the  house-carles  of  Erling,  join  K. 
Magnus  Erlingson  going  on  a  state  visit  to  K.  Waldimar  of 
Denmark,  43722-24— Earl  Sigurd  of  Reyr's  war-host  in  fighting 
for  Hakon  Shoulderbroad  consisted  of  his  house-carles,  4409 
— 2.  the  lowest  section  of  the  king's  household  of  free-born 


hou — how]  Index  III  365 

men,  thirty  in  number  at  the  court  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  sixty  at 
the  court  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  engaged  in  doing  'all  needful 
service '  within  the  royal  establishment,  and  '  at  whatso  in- 
gatherings were  needful,'  ii.  6730-68!  iii.  i944.7 — the  devotion 
of  the  house-carles  of  Magnus  the  Good  praised  in  song  by 
Odd  Kikina-skald,  iii.  91059,3 

HOUSECARLES'- WHETTING  (huskarla-hvot),a  name  given 
by  the  army  of  K.  Olaf  at  Sticklestead  to  '  Biarklay  the 
Ancient,'  when  Thormod  had  sung  it  out  to  them  at  the 
dawn  of  the  day,  ii.  408^ 

HOUSE-FREYA  (huss-freyja),  a  lady  who  rules  a  household, 
i.  24, 

HOUSEWIFE'S  TOW  (rykkjartd;  possibly  rykkjar  was  meant 
to  stand  in  the  original  for  '  rukkjar,'  gen.  of  '  rukkr,'  a  '  rock,' 
'  spinning-wheel ' ;  but  as  rygjar,  gen.  of  rygr,  an  archaic  term 
for  woman,  is  the  reading  both  in  the  oldest  saga  of  Olaf  the 
Holy,  ed.  1849,  P-  6o3t3  and  in  the  older  law  of  Frosta-Thing, 
xvi.  2,  3,  Norg.  gamle  Love,  p.  257-8,  we  thought  it  safer  to 
follow  the  reading  rygjar-t6),  a  bundle  of  undressed  flax,  as 
much  as  might  be  spanned  by  the  biggest  finger,  the  thumb, 
and  the  longest,  a  tax  payable  at  Yule,  imposed  by  Svein 
Alfivason  on  every  mistress  of  a  house  in  Norway,  ii.  45o93.06 

HOWE  (haugr),  a  burial  mound,  a  barrow;  in  Snorri's  view 
the  historical  landmark  of  a  new  era,  '  the  mound-age,'  fol- 
lowing that  of  burning,  i.  4ir.30 — Frey  was  the  first  lord  in 
Sweden,  and  Dane  the  Proud  in  Denmark,  to  be  laid  in  howe, 
4i9-29 — Frey's  howe  was  built  with  a  door  and  three  windows 
(gluggar),  through  which  votive  offerings  were  dropped  in 
gold,  silver  and  copper,  2313.22 — K.  Gudlaug  of  Halogaland 
was  laid  in  mound  at  Streamisleness,  3910.12 — of  the  Ynglings 
kings  Aun,  Egil  Foe-of-Tunni  and  Adils  were  laid  in 
mound  at  Upsala,  4318  46l7  5i5.6 — Yngvar,  in  Adalsysla  (in 
Esthonia),  532.2-23 — Eystein  s.  of  Halfdan,  and  Halfdan  his 
son  at  Borro  (Westfold),  6912  7o8  20.21 — Olaf  Geirsteadelf  at 
Geirstead  (Westfold),  732.3  18.19 — the  howe  of  K.  Herlaug  of 
Naumdale  took  three  years  building,  being  made  of  stone 
and  lime  and  roofed  with  timber,  972o-23 — to  Sli-  on  a  howe, 
an  ancient  custom  of  kings  (connected  with  worship  of  ances- 
tral spirits),  9730.31  i6234 — Earl  Sigurd  Eysteinson's  howe  at 
Oikel  Bank,  n628 — Biorn  Seafarer's  at  Seaham  above  Tuns- 


366  Index  III  [how — inc 

berg,  13534 — Harald  Hairfair's  on  Kormt  Sound,  143^ — the 
howes  of  Olaf  (II.)  Geirsteadelf  and  Sigurd  his  brother,  on 
the  brent  east  of  Tunsberg,  I4425.26 — howes  on  the  island  of 
Fra?di  heaped  over  ships  with  fallen  warriors  laid  in  them, 
i8o8.n — Hakon  the  Good  laid  in  a  great  howe  at  Seaham  in 
North-Hordland  'all  armed  with  the  best  of  his  array,' 
i8825.28 — K.  Ogvald  laid  in  howe  near  Ogvaldsness,3i514.15 — 
howes  at  Upsala,  ii.  n823 — howes  among  the  Biarms  used 
for  storing  in  that  portion  of  dead  men's  property  which  by 
law  was  theirs  after  death,  2,6o23.28  26i25.27 — while  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad,  on  the  eve  of  his  fall,  engages  in  play,  his 
landed  men  '  sat  on  a  certain  howe,'  iii.  444,5  (from  super- 
stitious motives?). 
HOWE-STEAD  (haugstaSr),  the  place  at  or  near  to  which  a 
man  has  been  laid  in  howe  (Snorri's  statement  that  the  'howe- 
stead '  of  each  of  the  ancestors  of  the  Ladir  Earl  Hakon  the 
Mighty  is  recorded  in  Eyvind's  poem  '  The  Haloga  Tale  '  is 
not  borne  out  by  the  fragments  we  now  possess  of  that  poem), 

1  4l3 
HUNDRED  (hundraS),  num.=  i2o,  passim. 

HUNTER,  HUNTING  (veiSrmaSr,  veiSr),  K.  Egil  the  Foe- 
of-Tunni,  a  mighty  hunter,  who  oft  rode  day-long  through 
the  woods  hunting  wild  deer,  i.  46^3— Atti  the  Fool's  hunt, 
ii.  156^-1579 

HUSBANDRY  (biisysla),  K.  Sigurd  Sow,  a  great  husbandman, 
gives  heed  to  his  workmen,  acres,  meadows,  live  stock  and 
smiths,  ii.  312.16 

HYLL  (hylja),  to  cover,  iii.  375 

ICE-HEWING  (ishogg),  Harald  Hardredy's  ice-bound  ships 
in  the  lake  Venern  set  free  by  cutting  away  the  ice  until  open 
water  was  reached,  iii.  i5215.27  1539-10 

IMMORALITY,  even  in  a  popular  and  illustrious  ruler,  so 
resented  by  the  'bonders'  as  to  count  for  a  capital  crime, 
i.  288q.lq  2Q23-2Q429  2Q628-2Q721  2984.7 

INCENSE  (reykelsi,  from  O.E.  recels),  employed  as  a  counter- 
magic  (beside  'candles'  kindled,  the  'rood,'  'the  gospel,' 
'  many  prayers '  and  '  holy  water ')   to  Raud  the    Strong's 

wizardry,  i.  33 x  25-30 
INCOMINGS  (tokur,  from  taka,  now  tekjur,  sg.  tekja),  income, 

revenue,  iii.  i8323.24 


inf — kin]  Index  III  367 

INFANTRY  (fotgongulrS,  fotgangandi  menn),  'footmen,'  'foot- 
folk,'  the  men  on  foot  in  the  army  of  Emperor  Otto  and  in 
that  of  Harald  Godwinson,  as  distinct  from  the  men  on 
horseback,  the  'riders,'  cavalry,  an  arm  still  unknown  in  the 
north,  where,  consequently,  '  fotgongu- '  is  never  prefixed  to 
'lr8'  when  native  levies  are  in  question,  i.  255^  iii.  1735 

IRON-BEAK,  see  Ships,  2. 

IRONS  (jam),  iron  chains  into  which  were  cast:  heathens  re- 
fusing to  accept  Christianity,  i.  32417.1S — great  criminals,  ii. 

i2514  2265— traitors,  34310-17  ni-  "727-28  30— or  even  lesser 
offenders,  iii.  2  2  314 

JIG-PLAYERS  (gigjarar,  sg.  gigjari),  much  in  request  at  the 
court  of  K.  Hugleik  of  Sweden,  i.  3733 

JOINTURE  (tilgjof),  a  marriage  settlement  on  the  bride  made 
by  her  father  (guardian),  in  addition  to  what  the  bridegroom's 
dower,  mundr,  amounted  to,  ii.  1533  21 

JUDGMENT  (domr),  passed  at  the  instance  of  Erling  Askew 
at  a  Thing  in  Tunsberg  which  in  due  form  committed  Earl 
Sigurd  of  Reyr  and  his  following  both  alive  and  dead  to  the 
devil — severely  censured  by  Snorri,  iii.  449^-450- 

KETTLE-BOW  (ketil-hadda,  the  handle  of  a  pot  used  for  cook- 
ing sacrificed  meat),  i.  i7ox  4.5 

KILT  (kilting),  see  Dress.   Cloak,  5. 

KING  (konungr),  the  title  first  used  by  Kings  Danp  in  Den- 
mark and  Dyggvi  in  Sweden,  i.  3i14.19 — the  king(s)  of  Sweden 
supreme  judge (s)  in  a  court  of  law  where  twelve  judges 
assisted  as  assessors,  ii.  i59!7-19 — king's  dues  (konungs 
skyldir),  crown  revenues,  ii.  6712  7529  7824.25 — king's  berth 
(konungs  lsegi)  and  king's  bridge  (konungs  bryggja),  i.e.  pier, 
landing-stage  or  quay,  prerogatively  provided  in  harbours 
where  kings  with  a  fleet  or  otherwise  might  be  calling,  iii. 
849.10  8825cf.  iii.  34322 — the  relative  right  of  Magnus  the  Good 
and  Harald  Sigurdson  to  this  prerogative  defined,  844.10 — 
Harald's  breach  and  Magnus' firm  vindication  of  this  covenant, 
882.,-9o20 — Earl  Hakon  the  Mighty's  observance  of  this  right 
of  berth,  i.  247ltH926-24813 — king's  fines  (konungs  sakeyrir), 
that  part  of  fines  inflicted  for  offences  against  the  law  which 
belonged  to  the  king,  iii.  i46is — king's  garth  (konungs  garSr), 
the  royal  palace  or  residence,  as  a  nucleus  of  a  capital  with  the 
seat  of  government,  first  erected  by  OlafTryggvison  at  Nidoyce 


368  Index  III  [kin — kni 

(a.d.  997),  i.  32i26.27  ii.  5o20  (where  konungs  garSr  is  tr.  'king's 
house ') — neglected  during  the  rule  of  the  Earls  Eric  and  Svein 
it  was  found  in  a  tumble-down  state  and  partially  restored  by 
Olaf  the  Holy  (a.d.  1015),  but  shortly  afterwards  destroyed 
when  Nidoyce  was  burnt  down  by  Earl  Svein  and  Einar 
Thambarskelfir,  ii.  5023-51!  5314.16 — again  K.  Olaf  erected  it 
in  a  stately  manner  (1016-17),  6716.20 — K.  Magnus  his  son 
built  a  new  one  to  which  K.  Harald  Hardredy  added  a  stone- 
hall,  which  he  did  not  live  to  complete,  io425.26  2S.30  io58.n — 
the  old,  Olaf  the  Holy's,  palace  had  acquired  the  name  of 
Skuli's-garth  (Skula-garSr)  in  1093,  when  Magnus  Barefoot 
succeeded  his  father,  doubtless  because  Olaf  the  Quiet  had 
assigned  it  for  a  residence  to  his  great  favourite,  Skuli  son  of 
Tosti,  cf.  18^ — but  the  palace  of  Magnus  the  Good  was  now, 
par  excellence,  the  king's  palace,  2o615.16  18  21 — king's  palace 
in  Biorgvin  from  the  days  of  K.  Eystein  Magnusson  becomes 
the  most  noted  royal  residence,  2638.u  34319.20  46414.15 

KING'S  MEN  (konungsmenn),  part  of  the  war-cry  or  watch- 
word in  K.  Olaf's  army  at  Sticklestead,  ii.  40032  42  71S 

KIN-HAY  (frsendhagi),  the  country  or  district  of  one's  nativity 
and  kindred,  iii.  41730 

KISS  (kyssa),  to  kiss,  a  form  of  taking  a  loving  farewell,  i.  io719 
— to  kiss  a  king's  hand,  a  ceremony  whereby  a  pardoned 
offender  or  criminal  acknowledged  the  act  of  grace,  ii.  2  2924.29 
iii.  47228 

KNAVE  (knapi,  Germ,  knabe),  a  young  valet  in  a  king's  or 
nobleman's  service,  ii.  i2622 

KNEE-SETTING  (at  knesetja),  a  solemn  ceremony,  whereby 
he  on  whose  knee  a  child  was  set  with  or  without  his  will, 
became  in  honour  bound  to  bring  it  up,  to  '  foster  'it;  in  this 
way  Hakon  the  son  of  Harald  Hairfair  became  K.  Athelstan's 
fosterson,  i.  i4o11.12  18.21 — K.  Harald  Gormson  'took  into 
fostering  Harald  Ericson,  Greycloak,  and  set  him  on  his  knee,' 

1 5926-27  °f-   23520-21  27-32  23°l-2  31"237o 

KNIFE  (knifr),  carried  in  a  sheath  (cf.  bra  hon  knifi),  the 
weapon  wherewith  Gudrun  Jarn-Skeggi's  daughter  was  going 
to  slay  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  bed  on  the  first  night  of  their 

nuptials,  i.  322io-i4 
KNIGHT  (riddari),  in  a  table  game  which  probably  was  chess, 
ii.  32619 


kno— lan]  Index  III  369 

KNOP-HEAD  (knapphofSi),  name  given  by  Harald  Hardredy 
to  a  stoup  as  big  as  a  man's  head  among  his  Byzantine 
treasures,  hi.  86^^ 

KNUT'S  DRAPA,  see  Poems. 

LAINE  (leyna),  to  hide,  gainsay,  deny,  iii.  i7325 

LAND-DUES,  i  (land-skyldir),  rent,  revenue  from  land,  paid 
by  every  owner  of  land  to  Har.  Hairfair,  one-third  of  which 
he  bestowed  as  tax-gathering  fee  on  his  earls  (an  arrangement 
which  applied  to  every  kind  of  revenue  collected  by  them  and 
whereby  their  income  exceeded  in  amount  that  of  the  dis- 
possessed kinglets),  i.  965.18 — with  his  sons  as  sub-kings  he 
shared  one  half  of  his  own  land-dues,  i323.5  cf.  i35i.6  i443.6 
— the  same  arrangement  was  adopted  by  Hakon  the  Good  in 
respect  of  his  nephews  Tryggvi  Olafson  and  Gudrod  Biornson, 
I5I20-22 — Earl  Svein  held  on  the  same  terms  his  dominion  in 
Norway  of  the  King  of  Sweden  after  the  fall  of  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison,  3772i-3i — Olaf  Tryggvison  settled  on  his  brother-in-law, 
Erling  Skialgson,  his  marriage  portion  on  the  same  basis, 
3o8ii-i.5  "•  2 33-7 12-21— see  further,  8i12  iii.  14612-13  16-24  M^-is 

l995-62015   2I525-26  3599 

LAND-DUES,  2  (landaurar),  or  'sailing  fees,' an  impost  levied 
in  Norway  on  every  free  and  enfranchised  man  who  came 
from  Iceland;  it  amounted  to  'six  cloaks'  or  rugs  (feldr),  + 
six  ells  of  homespun,  or  half  a  mark  of  silver,  pro  persona, 
cf.  'Gragas,'ed.  Finsen,  ii.  195,  'Dipl.  Isl.,'i. 65-66.  Snorridoes 
not  mention  the  amount,  his  readers  knew  all  about  it.  The 
statement  that  Earl  Svein  gathered  in  the  half  of  the  sailing 
fees,  in  his  dominion  in  Norway,  finds  its  explanation  in  the 
fact  that  the  other  half  went  to  his  suzerain,  the  King  of 
Sweden  (cf.  i.  37725.26)>  t0  which  Olaf  the  Holy  put  a  stop 
by  driving  away  or  slaying  the  Swedish  tax-gatherers,  ii.  5219.25 

6924-72  9426-95io 
LANDED  MEN  (lendir  menn,  sg.  lendr  raa^r,  'lord  of  land, 
i.  28229  3296):  in  Snorri's  'Edda'  it  is  stated  that  the  titles 
hersar  or  lendir  menn  in  the  North  correspond  to  greifar  in 
Saxland  and  baninar  in  England,  i.  4563.n — 'lendr  ma'Sr/ 
therefore,  is  looked  upon  in  the  thirteenth  century,  in  accord- 
ance with  the  traditional  view  of  the  case,  as  a  title  equivalent 
to  a  hersir.  The  original  colonists  of  Iceland  and  their  de- 
scendants knew  all  about  the  origin  of  the  '  lendir  menn,'  and 

VI.  BE 


37°  Index  III  [lan 

therefore,  without  going  into  any  explanation  of  it,  the  his- 
torians generally  refer  to  these  men  as  to  a  matter  with  which 
all  readers  are  familiar.  Before  Harald  Hairfair's  time  there 
were  no  landed  men  in  Norway,  but  there  was  a  multitude  of 
petty  kings  and  of  hersar,  either  of  whom,  within  their  own 
dominion,  exercised  what  practically  amounted  to  sovereign 
authority  in  matters  religious,  military,  and  judicial.  When 
Harald  subdued  the  whole  country  and  concentrated  all  au- 
thority in  his  own  sovereignty,  the  old  independent  rulers 
had  before  them  one  of  two  choices,  either  to  flee  the  land, 
as  many  did,  or  to  deliver  themselves,  their  land  and  rule, 
into  the  hand  of  the  conqueror.  In  the  case  of  the  former, 
Harald  acquired  their  lands  by  confiscation,  in  that  of  the 
latter  by  voluntary  cession.  These  were  the  men  who  came 
down  in  reality  to  the  position  of  landed  men,  though  the 
degraded  king  might  be  allowed  the  title  of  earl,  and  the 
hersir  might  retain  his  old  titular  dignity.  It  is  to  this  evolu- 
tion of  the  '  landed  man '  out  of  the  old  tribal  system  that 
Snorri  refers  in  saying:  'In  those  times'  {i.e.  ab.  a.d.  1015) 
'  there  was  in  Norway  a  multitude  of  landed  men,  and  many 
of  them  were  mighty  men,  and  of  so  great  kindred  that  they 
were  sprung  from  the  blood  of  kings  or  of  earls  by  but  a 
short  tale  of  forefathers,'  ii.  5404.09 — the  other  group  of  landed 
men  consisted  of  those  who  by  royal  pleasure  were  raised  up 
to  that  position,  generally  out  of  the  class  of  the  hauldar 
freeholders,  and  for  whom  landed  dominion  was  provided  out 
of  the  confiscated  properties  already  mentioned.  In  all  cases, 
however,  this  dominion  was  a  royal  grant,  veizla,  a  term  de- 
rived from  veita,  to  bestow  on,  to  grant,  whereto,  in  cases  of 
special  favour,  was  added  the  len  feof,  i.e.,  the  plenary  fiscal 
and  administrative  authority  over  the  veizla.  The  dignity  of 
a  landed  man  was,  by  strict  law,  not  hereditary,  ii.  7400.29 
75s-i5  (c*-  '^Eldste  Gulapingslov,' ch.  200,  206,  'Norgesgamfe 
Love,'  i.  71,  72) — all  the  trust  of  the  kings  or  the  earls  that 
ruled  over  the  land  was  in  the  landed  men,  for  they  ruled,  in 
every  folkland,  over  the  throng  of  the  bonders,  ii.  54o9-559 — 
the  more  the  power  of  the  king  tended  to  encroach  upon  the 
liberties  of  the  commonalty,  the  more  the  landed  men  put 
themselves  forward  in  defence  of  the  popular  cause,  iii.  107,0- 
io84 — a  case  against  a  landed  man  could  not  be  decided 


LAN] 


Index  III  37 1 


except  at  a  Law-Thing,  2  7320.24 — in  the  '  Heimskringla '  the 
landed  men  mostly  figure  in  their  military  capacity  as  com- 
manders by  land  and  sea,  and  as  the  most  influential  class 
in  political  matters,  ii.  2415  7930-8o7  867  io610  23  io825  io923 

I239  I9ii6  I92i7  T994  3I0n  3H30  333i«  33812  3492  5  36i9 
36217  364l9  38717-388n  389s.n  39o4  12  397,3  4i621  4i75  4i831 

42O3  4234-19  424l6  428S19  43°11  4347  463ii—lll-  721  I027  2628-29 
98i5  I°5l6  Io64  II031  IIJ4-5  I7°23  2°921  2IO10  2 1 421  2(J  M.sl 
2I5lO  2l64  21725  31  2l82  2252S  242s  248g  274]7  290n  32  291,  3 

294ie  295ir  299ms  3I3io  3I48-9  3*528  3X723  3I81G  2i  3'9i  9 
32°3-4i7  27  34°2o  3443  3477  35°2o  21  3525  353io  3572o  35924 
365oo-2i  3698  37%  3889  u  4°7n  4i°2244i544324  4446  459i2-ia 
46825.2ti  47i13  47727-2S  479a  48i20 
LAND-PENNY  GELD  (landaura-gjald),  '  Hakon  (Magnuson) 
took  off"  from  the  Thrandheim  folk  the  land-penny  geld,'  iii. 
2°5i7-is — tn^s  must  refer  t0  that  provision  in  the  laws  of  K. 
Svein  Alfiva's  son,  whereby  '  No  man  was  to  fare  out  of  the 
land  but  by  the  leave  of  the  king;  but  should  he  go  without, 
his  goods  were  forfeited  to  the  king,'  ii.  45o14.l7 — although 
it  is  not  expressly  stated  that  the  king's  '  leave '  was  to  be 
paid  for,  it  stands  to  reason  that  such  must  have  been  the 
case,  considering  the  penalty  attached  to  the  breach  of  it. 
Precedent  for  the  provision  existed  already  in  Harald  Hair- 
fair's  legislation,  who  imposed  the  tax  of  five  ounces  of 
silver  on  every  man  leaving  Norway  for  Iceland  ('  Isl.  b6k,' 
ch.  1),  which  payment  went,  as  did  that  reversely  paid  by 
Icelanders   in   Norway,  under  the  name  of  land-aurar,  iii. 

2  °5 17-18 

LAND-SPIRITS  (land-vasttir),  the  guardian  spirits  of  Iceland. 
The  landvsettir  that  drive  Harald  Gormson's  magic  messenger 
away  are  clearly  indicated  by  Snorri  as  the  guardian  genii  of 
the  four  leading  families  in  the  country  at  the  time,  i.  2  6827- 

26925 
LAND-TENT,  see  Tent 

LAND-WARD  (landvarnarma^r),  commander  of  the  forces 
levied  for  the  defence  of  a  country,  iii.  u622  iS728 — land- 
warders  (landvarnar  menn),  probably  a  corps  of  Vrerings  in 
the  service  of  Jaroslav  of  Novgorod,  iii.  5829 

LAND-TOLL  (landvarSa),  a  toll  consisting  of  five  fishes  paid 
to  the  king  by  every  man  who  rowed  out  deep-sea  fishing;  an 


372  Index  III  [lan — law 

impost  from  Hairfair's  days  revived  by  Svein  Alfivason,  ii. 

45°3i-45Ii 
LANDWASTER  (landey^a),  name  of  the  charmed  banner  of 

K.  Harald  Hardredy,  iii.  8in  i68x  i726  i7816 

LAND-WENDING  (landganga),  disembarkation  of  an  army, 
iii.  i7o12 

LANTERN  (skriSljds),  ii.  127^  i2824 

LAWS  (log,  plur.  of  lag,  meaning  fellowship,  cf.  felag,  samlag, 
etc.,),  practically  a  territorial  term  for  a  district  consisting  of 
so  and  so  many  folklands,  amenable  to  one  and  the  same  body 
of  public  law,  a  law  confederation,  ii.  ii32 — Log,  in  this  sense, 
enters  frequently  as  a  second  element  into  a  compound, 
praenda-log,  meaning  the  eight  folklands  of  Thrandheim, 
amenable  to  the  body  of  law  administered  by  the  Frosta-Thing. 
The  difficulty  of  translating  the  compound  forced  the  trans- 
lators into  a  variety  of  compromises:  Thranderlag,  ii.  46623: 
Thrandheim,  i.  1447  i562.3  i652  i7o14  20219  2459  354i2m- 1255: 
Thrandheim  folk,  i.  i3716:  Thrandheim  law,  iii.  45  621:  Thrand- 
heim laws,  46o27:  Thrandheim  parts,  i.  2  7332:  countryside  of 
Thrandheim,  i.  32il7:  folklands  of  Thrandheim,  iii.  4o710: 
lands  of  Thrandheim,  4i514:  laws  of  Thrandheim,  ii.  2  230 
Only  in  this  case  does  log,  in  this  sense,  combine  with  the 
name  of  a  people,  namely,  praendr,  -ir.  The  Danelag  in 
England  is  an  exact  parallel.  In  two  instances  log,  in  this 
sense,  combines,  in  the  same  manner,  with  the  name  of 
Things:  Gulapingslog,  '  Gula-Thing's  parts,'  iii.  207l7.18  and 
Frostapingslog,  '  Frosta-Thing's  law,'  2  74n.12 

LAWS  (log,  leges,  pi.  of  lag,  which,  however,  does  not  occur  in 
the  singular  in  the  sense  of  lex),  what  is  laid  down ;  enactment, 
ordinance,  body  of  law,  law-code.  Of  laws  in  this  sense  the 
following  are  mentioned : 

1.  Laws  of  Odin:  Dead  men  to  be  burnt;  their  chattels  to 
be  borne  to  bale  with  them ;  the  ashes  to  be  cast  into  the 
sea,  or  buried  in  earth ;  memorial  mounds  to  be  raised  over 
noble  men,  and  standing  stones  over  all  men  of  mark; 
sacrificial  feasts  to  be  celebrated  three  times  a  year;  a  poll- 
tax  of  one  penny  to  be  paid  to  him  (Odin)  from  all  Swedes, 
but  he  should  do  sacrifice  (at  his  own  cost)  for  good  year, 

2.  Of  K.  Halfdan  the  Black:  He  systematized  the  law  of 


law] 


Index  III  373 


blood  fines  (saktal),  and  settled  duly  the  weregilds  (txetr), 
for  each  man  after  his  birth  and  dignity,  i.  8428-852  As 
Halfdan  was  King  of  Sogn,  and  that  folkland  formed  a 
part  of  the  Gulathing  jurisdiction,  it  is  possible  the  fines 
and  weregild  system  of  the  Older  Gulathing's  law  may  trace 
its  origin  to  Halfdan,  see  Older  Gulathing's  law,  ch.  91, 
185,  200  Norges  gamle  Love  I — the  code  of  Heidsasvi  (or 
Eidsivathing),  to  which  Halfdan's  hereditary  realm  of  Wes- 
fold  was  amenable,  framed  by  him,  8429.31  i6o30.32 
Of  K.  Harald  Hairfair:  Constitutional  (feudal  system) 
and  fiscal,  i.  963.18  iool7.19;  administrative,  n84.7 — suc- 
cession laws :  sword-side  male  issue  to  be  kings,  distaff  male 
descendants,  earls,  whose  revenue  and  rank  at  court  was 
defined,  i3i8-i5  i322-5 — partition  of  the  realm,  i3i15-i32s 

14125-27 

Of  K.  Hakon  the  Good:  He  frames,  by  the  assistance 

of  Thorleif  the  Wise,  a  body  of  laws  for  the  district  of 
Gulathing,  i.  i6o27.2S — and  with  the  counsel  of  Earl  Sigurd 
of  Ladir,  and  the  wisest  men  in  Thrandheim,  a  code  for 
Frostathing,  i6o2S.30  i6729.31 — he  frames  laws,  and  provides 
good  administration  for  Jamtland  and  Helsingland,  i638.20 
ii.  2  76.n.32 — passes  a  law  dividing  the  maritime  folklands  of 
Norway,  as  far  inland  as  'salmon  furthest  swims,'  into 
'  ship-raths,'  q.v.,  i.e.  creates  a  standing  fleet,  i.  i7325-I742 
— he  ordains  a  system  of  war-signalling  by  means  of 
beacons  erected  on  high  mountains,  whereby  war  news 
could  be  transmitted  from  the  southernmost  to  the  northern- 
most Thingstead  in  Norway  in  seven  days  (a  distance  of 
about  1,100  miles),  i742.7 — heavy  penalty  for  creating  false 
alarm  by  lighting  the  beacons,  i7424-I75n 

.  OfK.  Olaf  the  Holy:  He  revises  and  amends K.Hakon's 
Frostathing  laws,  ii.  6814.18 — ordains  by  law  that  the  laws 
of  Heidssevis  Thing  should  extend  to  the  folklands  of  the 
Uplands  of  Norway,  2io15.21 — by  1024  (Snorri  says)  he  had 
framed  laws  for  all  the  land,  24i10.n — by  the  aid  of  bishop 
Grimkel  he  framed  the  first  church  law,  or  canon  right,  for 
Norway,  6818.28 

1.  Upland  law,  the  body  of  enactments  prevailing  before 
the  days  of  Olaf  the  Holy  in  the  five  folklands  called  Up- 
lands, ii.  459 


374  Index  III  [law 

7.  Svein  Alfivason's  laws:  Under  penalty  of  forfeiture  of 
his  property,  no  man  was  to  leave  the  land  without  the  king's 
permission;  penalty  for  manslaughter:  forfeiture  of  lands  and 
chattels;  an  outlaw's  inheritance  to  be  the  king's  property; 
for  every  hearth  in  Norway,  the  king  must  receive  as  a  Yule- 
gift  a  measure  of  malt,  a  thigh  of  a  three-winter  ox,  and  a  keg 
of  butter,  while  every  housewife  must  give  housewife's-tow, 
q.v.;  the  'bonders'  must  build  all  the  houses  the  king 
wanted  built  at  his  manors;  for  every  seven  men  above  five 
years  of  age,  one  fit  person  must  be  returned  for  naval 
service;  every  man  going  out  for  deep-sea  fishing  must 
each  time  pay  the  king  five  fishes;  every  ship  sailing  from 
the  land  must  reserve  for  the  king's  use  'one  room'; 
every  man  going  to  Iceland  must  pay  land  tax  {i.e.  land- 
penny  geld,  q.v.)  regardless  of  nationality ;  the  witness  of 
one  Dane  should  upset  that  of  ten  Norwegians,  ii.  45°ir 
45 19 — some  of  these  imposts  were  abrogated  by  K.  Hakon 
Magnusson,  iii.  2o5l7.20  22.23  and  many  of  them  by  the  sons 
of  Magnus  Barefoot,  2683.7 

8.  Laws  of  Sweden.  Each  shire  of  Sweden  had  its  own  Law- 
Thing,  and  its  own  laws  '  in  many  matters ' ;  the  '  lawman  ' 
of  each  Thing-district  having  to  decide  what  was  law,  and 
what  not,  ii.  11 3^ — in  cases  of  discrepancy  the  provincial 
laws  '  had  to  yield  to  the  Upsala  law '  as  a  standard  code, 

II3ll-12  J5°3-5  29-31  ...  .  .... 

9.  Laws  in  Russia  (in  Holmgarth),  relating  to  safety  of  life, 
and  to  weregild,  and  to  the  residence  of  foreign  princes,  i. 
23°26-3i  23*  10-12 — customary  law  that  the  queen  should,  at 
her  ""own  cost,  "have  at  her  disposal  one  half  of  the  royal 
bodyguard,  251^ 

10.  Law,  alleged  to  have  been  passed  at  the  Althing  in  Ice- 
land that  for  every  nose  in  the  island  a  libellous  verse 
should  be  composed  on  K.  Harald  Gormson  for  inhuman 
treatment  in  Denmark  of  a  shipwrecked  crew  from  Iceland, 
(legendary),  i.  2683.10 

LAW-BOOT  (rettarbdt),  law-reform,  iii.  2o5ls 

LAW-COU  RT  (logretta),  in  Norway  at  a  Law-Thing,  q.v. ,  a  chosen 
court  or  committee  of,  probably,  thirty-six  members  whose 
duty  it  was  to  prepare  judgments  to  submission  to  the  whole 
Thing,  iii.  2  7531 


law — lee]  Index  III  375 

LAW-MAN  (ldgma^r),  i,  in  Norway,  an  expert  at  law;  applied 
more  technically  to  the  members  of  the  law-court  at  a  Law- 
Thing,  iii.  27319  27410  2755  403u  14.15 

LAW-MAN,  2,  in  Sweden  (lagh-ma>er),  a  justiciary  over  a 
province,  and  at  the  same  time  the  guardian  of  the  laws  and 
privileges  of  the  commonalty  (bonders),  ii.  ii3M1  ir  19.2i — the 
lawman  of  Tenthland  (Upsala)  highest  in  dignity  and  of  most 
authority  among  the  lawmen  of  Sweden,  ii31H4 — the  lawman 
of  West-Gautland  delegated  by  the  people  under  his  jurisdic- 
tion to  plead  their  hardships  to  the  king,  1553-15833— Lawman 
Thorvid  of  West-Gautland's  comical  military  command,  iii. 

15000-1519 

1.  LAW-THING  (logging),  in  Norway,  a  term  properly  signify- 
ing one  of  the  four  great  judicial  folk-assemblies  of  Norway: 
that  of  Frosta,  Gula,  Heidssevi  and  Borg  (cf.  Thing),  which 
presumably  is  the  case,  ii.  744.6  and  45°i-8— according  to  the 
statement  that  Sigurd  Hranison's  case  had  been  brought  to 
naught '  at  three  Law-Things,'  that  of  '  Erneness  '  for  Haloga- 
land  would  seem  to  have  held  rank  with  the  four  named,  ii. 
2  7  528-30  cf-  273i2-i3— but  this  a  mistake>  see  under  Thing, 
Erneness-Thing. 

2.  LAW-THING  (lagging),  in  Sweden,  a  legislative  and  judicial 
assembly  in  every  district  or  folkland,  ii.  113! — called  Althing, 
to  indicate  that  it  is  a  general  assembly  with  jurisdiction  over 
lesser  Thing-districts  or  folkland-Things,  ii.  ii310 

LAW-SPEAKER,  see  Speaker-at-Law. 

LAYING  HANDS  on  the  heads  of  those  going  to  the  wars 
(leggja  hendr  i  hofuS),  a  sacred  rite  of  Odin,  i.  i229  cf.  Bless- 
ing. 

LAYING  one's  head  on  another's  knees  (leggja  hofuS  sitt  i  kne 
manni),  to  surrender  to  the  mercy  of  an  offended  (superior) 
person,  ii.  i854.7 

LAY-SMITHS  (ljdSa-smrSir),  poets,  a  title  given  to  Odin  and 
his  temple  priests  because  they  brought  with  them  the  art  of 
poetry  to  the  North,  i.  1 724 

LEECH  (lseknir),  one  skilled  in  the  art  of  healing:  Olaf  the 
Holy  noted  for  his  proficiency  therein,  ii.  343io-n  38325"3852 — 
a  woman  acts  as  an  army  surgeon  among  the  wounded  after 
the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  44°i8-2i  44  V44 2 15— scarcity  of 
leeches  after  the  battle  of  Lyrshawheath,  iii.  3712.h — K.  Magnus 


376  Index  III  [lee — lie 

selects  twelve  of  the  softest  handed  to  do  surgeon's  work, 
37i4-2i — many  leeches  descended  from  two  Icelanders  who 
were  present  at  the  battle,  372i-25 — a  'bonder'  heals  Harald 
Sigurdson  of  the  wounds  received  at  Sticklestead,  ii.  4386.7  iii. 
5720-22 — Olvir  Micklemouth  '  healed  whole '  of  severe  wounds, 

iii-  32929-31 
LEECH-CRAFT  (keknis-list),  binding  up  wounds,  i.  i884iii. 

I4°i6-i7  —  rubbing    inflamed    parts,    ii.    38420.23 —  cleansing 

wounds  with  warm  water,  ii.  44o20.21 — testing  whether  wounds 

reached  the  hollow  of  the  body  by  dosing  the  wounded  with 

a  mess  of  leek  and  other  herbs  and  smelling  at  the  wound, 

•  44i28-4422 

LEECH-DOM  (kekning),  ii.  3844  44o26.27 — see  Leech  and  Leech- 
craft. 

LEGATES  from  Rome,  see  Papal  missions. 

LEGBITER,  see  Weapons,  offensive — Sword. 

LENT  (langafasta),  i.  31333  ii.  55l7  iii.  4513  467^ 

LEOD-BISHOP  (ljdftbyskup,  O.E.  leod-bisceop),  a  suffragan 
bp.,  iii.  38o4 

LETTERS  (bref),  written  by  Princess  Ingigerd  of  Sweden  and 
Hjalti  Skeggison,  a.d.  1017,  ii.  ioi16.ls  cf.  Writ-sending  (rit- 
sending),  1019,  i4819 — letters  under  the  seal  of  K.  Knut  lay- 
ing claim  to  Norway,  25233-253^ — letters  forged  by  Queen 
Emma  under  K.  Knut's  seal  authorizing  the  election  of  Horda- 
Knut  to  king  in  Denmark,  3i710.20 — K.  Magnus  the  Good's 
letter  to  K.  Edward  the  Confessor,  iii.  5i26-529 — K.  Ingi 
Haraldson's  letter  to  his  brother  Sigurd  and  the  landed  men 
of  Thrandheim,  35927-36o18 — letters  forged  by  Erling  Askew 
in  the  name  of  the  King  of  Denmark  in  order  to  lead  the 
principal  men  of  Thrandheim  into  a  trap  of  treachery,  4675- 

46925 
LEVY  (nefnd),  called  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  from  every  folkland 

of  men  and  ships,  i.  3527.8 — (lei^angr)  Harald  bade  out  (bauSS 

lit),  a  levy,  one-half  of  the  all-men  war-muster  (almenningr), 

iii.  i628 
LICH-GATE  (kirkju-garSs  hli'S),  churchyard  gate,  iii.  i2626 
LIEGE-DUTY  (lySskylda),  a  subject's  duty  to  a  liege  lord,  such 

as  payment  of  a  fixed  tax,  ii.  24414 
LIEGEMAN  (ly^skyldr,  handgenginn,  handgenginn  ma^r,  and 

simply  ma?r),  he  who  under  the  observation  of  certain  form- 


lif — lot]  Index  III  Zll 

alities  (handshake)  has  entered  a  lord's,  generally  a  king's, 

service,  i.  io74  33^3  ii.  i827.s  i8620.21  iii.  437is 
LIFTING  ON  NESSES  (nes-nam),  vikings' mode  of  victualling 

their  ships  by  robbing  lifestock  on  outlying  nesses  when  they 

chose  not  to  give  fight  in  more  thickly-peopled  parts,  i.  i2219 

ii.  i87„9 
LIME  (fim),  used  in  the  building  of  K.  Herlaug's  gravemound 

in  Naumdale,  i.  9723— and  in  building  Mary's  church  on  the 

Mel,  iii.  io54 
LING-WORM  (lyng-ormr),  a  snake  (legendary)  made  use  of  in 

a  peculiar  manner  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  for  torturing  Raud  the 

Red,  i.  33233-33310 — employed  as  a  dowser  by  K.  Harald 

Hardredy,  iii.  1270,3-1285 
LOAF  (hleifr)  of  bread;  four  loaves,  and  fieshmeat  beside,  the 

daily  fare  of  Thor  in  Gudbrand  a-Dales'  temple  at  Hof,  ii. 

2°5l4-15   2°8l4 

LOAF-WARD  (lavarSr,  O.E.  hlaford),  lord,  sire,  in.  3952.4 
LONG-FAST  (langafasta),  Lent,  iii.  45i19 
LORD'S  NIGHT  (Drottins  nott),  Sunday,  iii.  325^ 

1.  LOT  (hlutr),  a  thing  chosen  by  two  contending  agents  for 
the  purpose  of  chance  decision;  Harald  Sigurdson's  tricky 
use  of,  iii.  6iu-622 

2.  LOT  (spann,  plur.  spaenir),  a  divining  chip  of  wood,  doubt- 
less marked  with  runes  on  either  side  (or  one  side  at  least) 
referring  to  fate  in  store  for  the  consulter  of  the  chip.  The 
term  '  bl6t-spann,'  sacred  chip,  shows  that  the  consultation  of 
it  was  connected  with  religious  ceremonial.  It  was  let  fall 
down  (fella  bl6tspan)  from  some  height  and  the  upper  side, 
when  it  had  fallen,  indicated  the  answer  that  fate  deigned  to 
vouchsafe,  i.  629.n  (A  similar  custom  may,  or,  at  least,  till 
lately,  might  be  observed  in  Iceland  in  connection  with  the 
baptism  of  infants.  When  the  parents  could  not  agree  as  to 
whether  the  child  should  be  named  into  the  family  of  the 
father  or  the  mother,  they  left  the  decision  to  chance  under 
the  observance  of  the  following  ceremony:  When  the  child 
was  brought  to  the  church  to  be  baptized,  the  parson  was  re- 
quested to  settle  the  dispute  of  the  name.  With  a  piece  of 
paper  in  his  hand,  on  either  side  of  which  the  rival  names 
were  written,  he  stepped  dressed  in  his  canonicals  up  to  the 
cross-beam  that  marked  the  division  of  the  choir  from  the 


378  Index  III  [luc — man 

nave,  and  let  the  paper  drop  down  from  it  on  the  floor.  The 
name  on  the  uppermost  side  was  announced  to  the  gossips  and 
to  it  the  child  was  baptized.  There  is  an  obvious  traditional 
connection  between  this  custom  and  the  ancient  of  'fella 
bldtspan '). 

LUCK,  Good,  (gasfa,  hamingja),  looked  upon  as  an  invisible  yet 
personal  spiritual  agency,  genius  tutelaris,  ii.  87s  8825.26 

LYKE-CHEST  (likkista),  a  coffin,  Hi.  7o3 

LYKE-FARE,  -FARING  (likferS),  funeral  procession,  iii.  7o2 

is92i 

LYKE-HELP  (umbunaftr),  laying  out  the  dead,  straightening 
the  body,  wiping  blood  off  the  face,  and  spreading  a  cloth 
over  the  person,  ii.  4ii5.6  4355.6 — last  rites,  44303 

MALT  (malt),  ii.  21 17  2i533  2i630  2i92 18 — a  measure  of  malt  to 
be  paid  at  Yule  to  K.  Svein  Alfiva's  son  for  every  hearth  in 
Norway,  45o20.92 — iii.  ioi7  1453 

MAN-MATCHING,  MAN-PAIRING  (mann-jafnaSr),  a  fa- 
vourite and  mischievous  kind  of  pastime  among  the  old 
Scandinavians,  which  in  this  case  (between  Kings  Eystein 
and  Sigurd)  terminated  in  the  usual  manner,  an  estrangement 
that  never  healed,  iii.  279^2833  cf.  i.  2io09-2ii4  ii.  2963.4  (iii. 
i865) 

MANNERS:  washing  hands  (taka  laugar)  before  meal,  iii. 
J39io  25 — courteous  manner  to  wipe  one's  self  on  the  middle 
of  a  towel,  but  deemed  '  uplandish '  (porparalegt,  clownish) 
by  a  farmer's  wife  (in  Halland),  who  out  of  consideration  for 
saving  wanted  only  the  corner  used,  13925-32 — a  manner  on 
board  ship  to  hold  a  mantle  in  front  of  persons  of  quality  in 
certain  circumstances  so  as  to  shelter  them  from  the  gaze  of 
people  on  board,  iii.  341 5.7 

MANORS,  Royal  (konungsbu),  in  Norway;  King  Harald  Hair- 
fair's,  Alrekstead,  Fitiar,  Ogvaldsness,  Seaham,  and  Out- 
stone,  i.  13709-31 — K.  Hakon  the  Good's,  Birchstrand,  in 
Northmere,  i75i7.i8 — K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  in  Orkdale,  name 
not  given,  ii.  279.2 — at  these  manors  the  kings  used  to  enter- 
tain friends  and  favourites,  the  householders  of  the  country- 
sides having  to  supply  the  goods  necessary  for  the  purpose; 
hence  Olaf  the  Holy  starts  on  his  progress  through  Norway 
by  having  banquets  arrayed  for  him  at  royal  manors,  ii.  45 12.14 — 
and  by  reason  of  his  too  numerous  following  in  comparison  with 


man — mar]  Index  III  379 

earlier  kings,  300  instead  of  sixty  or  seventy,  or,  at  most,  100, 
had  to  curtail  the  time  of  the  banquets  in  each  place,  4516.24 — 
his  feasting  at  his  manors  in  the  Uplands  made  easier  by  landed 
men  and  mighty  bonders,  33SS.14 — large  manors  at  Ulleracre 
belonging  to  Princess  Ingigerd  of  Sweden,  ii.  ii430  n5iS 

MANSLAYER,  or  simply  slayer  (vegandi),  ii.  225,5  22629 — 
allowed  to  listen  to  mass  standing  outside  the  church,  22  712.15 

MAN-TYNE  (manntjdn),  loss  of  life  (in  battle),  iii.  43013 

MARCHING  through  wild  woods  made  practicable  for  retreat- 
ing purposes  by  stripping  trees  of  their  bark  along  the  route, 
ii.  26ir.s 

MARK  (mork,  gen.  markar  and  merkr,  pi.  markir  and  merkr), 
wild  woodland,  marches,  see  Index  II. 

MARK  (mork,  gen.  merkr,  pi.  merkr),  orig.  a  standard  of 
weight,  =  8  ounces.  In  this  sense  it  occurs  in  connection 
with  the  rings  which,  as  song-reward,  K.  Olaf  the  Holy  pre- 
sented to  Sigvat,  ii.  527S — and  K.  Knut  to  Bersi  Skald- 
Torvason  and  Sigvat,  2  546.n — each  of  which  weighed  (st6$, 
pret.  of  standa)  half  a  mark;  but  in  the  overwhelming  number 
of  cases  it  stands  for  a  unit  or  standard  of  value :  mark  =  8 
ounces,  aurar,  =  24  sertogar  =  480  pennies,  penningar.  This 
was  the  so-called  '  weighed  mark,'  mork  vegin,  and  seems  to 
be  the  mark  Snorri  has  in  his  mind  wherever  he  uses  the 
term.  At  any  rate  he  does  not  distinguish  any  mark  he  men- 
tions by  the  epithet  '  counted,'  talin,  told,  the  value  of  which, 
through  increased  base  alloy,  had  gone  down  to  one  half  of 
the  weighed  mark,  in  the  eleventh  and  twelfth  centuries,  as 
may  be  inferred  from  Archbishop  Eystein's  mode  of  collecting 
the  revenue  of  the  see  of  Nidoyce  ab.  1162,  see  Ounce. 
The  song  of  Eyvind  Skaldspiller  on  '  all  the  men  of  Iceland ' 
was  rewarded  by  the  latter  with  an  ornamental  brooch  of 
the  value  of  fifty  marks,  i.  2i94.13 — Hialti  Skeggison  brings 
K.  Olaf  the  Swede  ten  marks  of  silveri(which  possibly  may  have 
been  of  the  lighter  currency)  as  land-dues  of  the  ship  wherein 
he  came  to  Norway,  on  board  which,  therefore,  there  must 
have  been  twenty  enfranchised  citizens  of  Iceland  (women 
and  children  not  counted),  ii.  9418-953 — Ingibiorg,  wife  of 
Earl  Rognvald,  furnished  Hialti  with  pocket  money,  twenty 
marks  of  weighed  silver,  for  a  journey  from  Skara  to  Up- 
sala,  9i,r922 — many  marks  of  silver  were  given  for  the  'soul- 


380  Index  III  [mar 

booting '  of  his  enemies  by  Olaf  the  Holy  before  the  battle  of 
Sticklestead,  4o619.31 — Sigvat  took  song-reward  to  the  amount 
of  ten  marks  of  '  burnt,'  i.e.,  absolutely  refined,  unalloyed, 
silver  from  K.  Emund  of  Sweden,  iii.  i419.21 — A  mark  of 
'burnt,'  refined  gold  as  opposed  to  half  a  mark  of  gold  4- 
half  a  mark  of  clay  and  rubble  =  gold  ore,  ii.  i5816.18 — Harald 
Hairfair  exacts  from  Orkney  sixty  marks  in  gold  in  atonement 
for  his  son  Halfdan  Highleg,  i.  i2  721.23  ii.  i6823.24 — for  slaying 
and  robbing  K.  Olafs  commissary,  Karli,  Thorir  Hound  is 
fined  by  the  King's  order  in  thirty  marks  of  gold,  2892.5 — yet 
the  payment,  that  part  of  it  which  Thorir  ever  delivered,  was 
in  silver,  29o8.18  cf.  the  story  of  Karli's  and  Thorir  Hound's 
expedition  to  Biarmland,  258-2675 — a  fine  of  fifteen  marks 
in  gold  imposed  by  K.  Harald  Gilli  on  bishop  Reinald  of 
Stavanger  for  not  divulging  the  spot  where  Magnus  the 
Blind's  treasures  were  kept  hidden,  iii.  2>2Au — Earl  Maddad 
pays  three  marks  of  gold  for  his  ransom,  3753.4 

MARKET  (marka^r,  foreign  word),  cried  by  the  Icelanders  at 
the  bridges  or  landing  stages  in  Nidoyce,  i.  33521-22 — market 
and  fair  at  Upsala  held  in  pagan  days  for  a  week  in  the  month 
of  Goi  (Feb.-March),  but  at  Candlemas  for  three  days  after 
the  introduction  of  Christianity,  ii.  ii22.3  5.9 — during  the  mar- 
ket the  Biarms  conceded  peace  to  their  enemies,  the  North- 
men, and  when  the  market  came  to  an  end  war  broke  out 
again,  2  6o3.13 — market  arranged  for  K.  Sigurd  the  Crusader's 
need  in  Spain  during  winter,  iii.  250^3 

MARKET-PLACE  (torg,  Slav,  torgu),  in  Nidoyce  as  early  as 
a.d.  999,  i.  35i18 

MARKING  one's  self  with  a  spear-point  (marka  sik  geirs  oddi, 
cf.  diis  se  devovere),  a  rite  whereby  a  person,  by  means  of 
self-immolation,  or,  at  least,  by  an  act  symbolic  of  such,  gave 
himself  to  a  god  (Odin),  i.  2i21  2218.20 

MARKMEN,  Woodland-men  (marka-menn),  the  somewhat 
lawless,  waylaying  inhabitants  of  the  wild  woods  that  formed 
the  land-marches  between  Norway  and  Sweden,  ii.  39325.20 
39527  cf-  394s"39S — st^  heathens  at  the  end  of  Olaf  the  Holy's 
reign,  39833-399 — Bishop  Sigurd's  characterization  of  these 

men,  4195-26 
MARRIAGE  with  a  sister  lawful  among  the  Vanir,  but  for- 
bidden among  the  Asfolk,  i.  i425.28 


mar — maz]  Index  III  38 1 

MARSHAL  (stallari,  O.E.  steallere,  Low  Lat.  stabularius),  one 
of  the  highest  dignitaries  at  the  Norwegian  court  from  the 
days  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  who  first  introduced  this  degree  of 
rank.  The  marshal  is  in  evidence  chiefly  as  the  spokesman  of 
the  king  at  public  assemblies.  In  the  court-hall  he  occupied 
the  seat  straight  against  the  high-seat  of  the  king,  and  from 
the  days  of  Olaf  the  Quiet  he  sat  in  the  so-called  Marshal's 
stool,  q.v.,  ii.  6722.24  7613  785  8510  28-8627  8831.33— marshals 
mentioned:  Biorn  (see  foregoing  quotations),  Sigvat,  333.^ 
334n  23  an<^  Wolf  the  son  of  Uspak  (a  nephew  of  Gudrun, 
the  heroine  of  '  The  Lovers  of  Gudrun '),  who  received  from 
Harald  a  landed  man's  right  and  other  privileges,  iii.  104-  15.18 
— marshals  at  K.  Sigurd  Crusader's  court,  29on 

MARSHAL'S  STOOL  (stallara-stdll),  the  seat  which  took  the 
place  of  the  old  lower  high-seat  on  its  being  moved  from 
the  side  wall  in  the  royal  hall  into  the  middle  of  the  floor 
some  way  down  the  hall  in  Olaf  the  Quiet's  reign.  This  seat 
was  occupied,  beside  the  marshal,  by  those  of  the  court  dig- 
nitaries which  came  in  rank  next  after  those  who  sat  on  either 
side  the  king's  high-seat  on  the  dais  at  the  upper  end  of  the 

hall,  iii.  19313-16  cf-  "■  67is-24 
MASS  (messa,  O.E.  maesse),  first  sung  in  Norway  for  Olaf 
Tryggvison  in  the  island  of  Most,  i.  29i1M2 — performed  on 
St.  Michael's  feast  with  great  solemnity,  33628.29 — other  re- 
ferences to,  ii.  20519  2  25ir  iii.  298^ — foremass  (formessa), 
missa  nocturna,  or  matutina,  or  matutinalis,  iii.  4433 — high- 
mass  (hamessa),  missa  solennis?  ii.  8629  1314  22  225l7  22619 

2276-7  12  16  Ui-  32626-27  327l0  &2M  14 

MASS-ARRAY  (messu  skru^i),  canonicals,  i.  33i25 
MASS-DAY  (messudagr),   a  church  festival,   saint's  day,   iii. 

475i2 
MASS-PRIEST  (prestr,  O.E.  preost),  i.  51G  339is-i9 
MASTERY  (i)>r6tt),  see  Sports. 
MATINS,  matinsong  (ottusongr,  dttusongsmal,  O.E.  ughtid), 

hora  matutina,  ii.  io719  i2929  22516  22615  iii.  298:  30228  42o15 

46822  47520  476l-2  8  12  48i25 

MAZER-BOWL  (mosurbolli),  a  bowl  made  of  the  maple  tree, 
the  spotted  wood ;  one  such  brimmed  with  silver  and  pro- 
vided with  a  handle  of  silver,  a  gift  from  K.  Harald  Sigurdson 
to  Steig-Thorir,  iii.  8628  875 


382  Index  III  [mea — mir 

MEAD  (mjoSr,  gen.  mjaSar),  mingled  wondrous  strong,  i.  253 
— K.  Roerek  stocks  the  dormitory  he  shared  with  the  body- 
guard of  Olaf  the  Holy  with  casks  of  mead  in  order  to  make 
the  guards  drunk,  ii.  i264 — which  mead  was  spiced  (grasaSr, 
'grassed,'  i.e.,  drugged  with  herbs  to  induce  sleep),  i2  716 

MEAD-HORN,  better  mead-drink  (mjo^drykkja),  i.  113,5 

MEAL  (mjol),  flour,  export  of,  from  provinces  where  it  was 
plenteous  to  those  parts  where  distress  prevailed,  forbidden 
by  Olaf  the  Holy  in  order  that  his  banquets  should  not  suffer, 
ii.  2ii7  21533-216^  hi.  1450 

MEAL  (verSr),  day-meal,  ii.  2 430.31— night-meal,  2431  io75 

MEASURE  (maelir),  of  malt,  about  a  bushel,  to  be  paid  at 
Yule  for  every  hearth  to  K.  Svein  Alfivason,  ii.  45°2o  22 

MEAT-BOARD  (mat-borS),  iii.  iq25 

MEAT-CHEAPING  (mat-kaup),  iii.  2503 

MIDLENT  (mrSfasta),  ii.  28219 

MIDWINTER  blood-offering,  see  Blood-offering. 

MILE  (rost,  gen.  rastar,  Goth,  rasta,  translation  of  the  Greek 
HiXiov;  in  '  Heilagra  manna  sogur,'  i.  33923  we  read,  'lengd 
bruarinnar  var  half  rost '  =  Lat.  duo  milliaria).  It  is  not  quite 
certain  how  long  the  ancients  calculated  the  rost,  but  modern 
research  goes  to  show  that  on  an  average  it  probably  equalled 
a  geographical  mile,  22,842  Parisian  feet.  By  Sigvat's  state- 
ment the  Eidwood  where  he  crossed  it  was  thirteen  miles 

broad,  ii.  i4527 
MILKING-STEAD  (stoSull):  this  is  the  specially  Icelandic 
sense  of  stb^ull,  but  in  Norway  it  has  a  more  extended  sense: 
the  place  up  among  mountain  pastures  where  domestic  ani- 
mals are  kept  for  dairy  purposes  through  the  summer,  ii. 
36626  30 — apparently  Snorri  uses  the  term  in  the  Icelandic 

sense. 
MINSTRELS  (leikarar,  sing,  leikari),  or  rather  jugglers,  first 
mentioned  at  a  northern  court  under  K.  Hugleik  of  Sweden, 

i.  3733 
MIRACLES  (jartegnir),  making  the  sign  of  the  cross  over 
meat-pots  produces  (in  Olaf  the  Holy's  case)  a  miraculous 
yield  of  meat,  ii.  365^.00  366^  7  1S.24— atthe  uttered  word  of 
Olaf  the  Holy  an  impassable  mountain-side  becomes  easy  of 
crossing  for  man  and  beast,  36527.33 — a  spring  in  which  Olaf 
washes  becomes  healthgiving  to  animals,  3663.0 — Olaf  heals 


mit — mot]  Index  III  383 

a  boy  of  dangerous  throat  inflammation,  38307-385., — Olaf 
restores  a  field  of  corn  trodden  down  by  his  army  to  its  natural 
state,  39710-3985 — Olafs  blood  restores  sight  to  a  blind  man, 
444.,0-445o0 — light  shines  where  his  corpse  is  hidden,  447^,,., 
— K.  Olaf  gives  victory  to  his  son  at  Lyrshawheath,  iii.  35,,..,,., 
37s&49 — O^  turns  tne  new-baked  bread  of  a  disbeliever  in 
his  saintliness  into  stones,  and  smites  him  with  blindness, 
i253.31 — a  cripple  rolls  over  the  threshold  of  the  gate  into 
the  churchyard  round  St.  Olave's  in  London  and  rises  forth- 
with a  whole  man,  126 — a  blind  man  cured  at  Olafs  shrine, 
I95i7-2o — a  dumb  man  likewise,  19500 — a  blind  woman  from 
Sweden  also,  i9526-i965 — Olafs  shrine  sticks  immovable  at 
a  spot  where,  digging  being  done,  a  body  is  found  of  a  mur- 
dered child,  i968.l7 — a  man,  for  behaving  irreverently  at 
Olafs  shrine,  is  punished  with  blindness,  237^-2384 — a 
crippled  woman  cured  by  Olaf,  238^ — Olaf  restores  the 
tongue  of  the  servant  Kolbein,  3029-303,5 — Olaf  saves  a  much- 
tormented  Dane,  3039-306 — Olaf  heals  Haldor,  a  man  fear- 
fully mutilated  by  Wends,  3800^-38  is — also  Richard,  a  terribly 
mishandled  English  priest,  38iir38516 — Olaf  brings  it  about 
that  his  sword  Hneitir  ultimately  is  placed  over  the  altar  in  a 
church  dedicated  to  him  in  Constantinople,  42829-42924 — 
Olaf  gives  the  Vserings  victory  over  overwhelming  odds,  42907- 

431 
MITRE  (mitr),  worn  by  Bishop  Sigurd  when  addressing  the 

heathen  assembly  led  by  Gudbrand  a  Dales,  and  from  the 

shape  of  which  he  earns  from  Thord  Bigbelly  the  nickname 

of  '  The  Horned  one '  (hyrningr),  ii.  205,3  2075 

MONEY,  see  Silver. 

MONK-CLOISTER  (munklifi),  monastery;  the  saga's  state- 
ment, '  he  set  up  a  monk-cloister '  (hann  h6f  munklifi),  refers 
to  the  foundation  of  St.  Michael's  monastery  on  Northness 
by  Biorgvin,  iii.  2634.6 

MORNIR  (mornir),  i.  26813  seems  not  to  occur  as  a  name  for 
a  sea-king;  other,  and  a  better  reading  is  Marnar,  gen.  of 
Morn,  the  river  Marne  (in  France),  and  hence  river  generally, 
the  m6r  =  horse  (not 'mew'),  of  which  =ship.  Sense  in  either 
case  the  same. 

MOTE  (m6t),  a  public  meeting  convened  within  a  town  of  the 
burgesses  and  citizens,  under  the  '  Stadsret '  in  Denmark,  iii. 


384  Index  III  [mou — nec 

285 — and  under  the  Birchisle  right,  q.v.,  in  Norway,  where  a 
clear  distinction  is  drawn  between  a  '  mote '  and  a  '  Thing  ', 
cf.  '  for  the  case  looks  to  the  land's  law '  =  the  jurisdiction  of 
Things  in  the  country,  '  not  to  Birchisle-right '  =  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  a  borough  court,  io93.13  2728.10  273^  27530— in  Eng- 
land, apparently,  a  court  of  law,  where  a  greve  presided  as 
judge,  23o10.12 

MOULDY  (Moldi),  a  ring,  an  heirloom  in  Eyvind  Skaldspiller's 
family,  taken  from  Eyvind  by  K.  Har.  Greycloak  as  a  fine 
for  the  poet's  disrespectful  verses,  i,  2oo26.30 

MOUND  (haugr),  raised  as  a  death-monument  over  kings  and 
noble  men,  i.  2o12.14  376  3912  5i6  5322  6726  6g12  jos  73s  875 
i3524 — see  Howe.    Cf.  also  burials. 

MOUNTAIN  BOTHY  (see  Sel  and  Setr,  under  House),  ii. 

3^426  3^68  n  14  l7  24 

MOUNTAIN-GIANT  (berg-risi,  lit.  rock-giant,  the  bergrisar 
being  supposed  to  have  their  abodes  within  precipitous  rocks), 
representing  a  land-  or  guardian-spirit  of  Iceland,  i.  2  6912.16 

MOUSE  (mus),  mice  as  big  as  cats  jump  out  of  the  hollow 
image  of  Thor  at  Hof  in  Gudbrandsdale  when  Kolbein 
smashes  it  to  pieces  with  his  club,  ii.  20731.33  2o816 

MURDER   (morS-verk),    to   take    human    life    by  night,    ii. 

22  59-11 

NAILS  (negl,  sing,  nagl),  Olaf  the  Holy's  growing  after  death, 
ii.  45528.33 — cut  by  Bishop  Grimkel,  45724 — by  K.  Magnus 
the  Good,  iii.  8726 — and  for  the  last  time  by  K.  Harald 
Sigurdson  (1066),  i63n 

NAME-BOOT  (nafnbdt),  title  of  dignity,  ii.  3897  iii.  437^ 

NAME-GIFT  (nafn-festi),  a  gift  accompanying  the  act  of  con- 
ferring a  by-  or  nick-name  on  a  person,  i.  33824 

NEAT'S-HIDE  (nautshu'S),  used  for  a  counter  whereon  to 
pour  the  gold  K.  Harald  Sigurdson  brought  from  Byzance 
and  divided  with  his  nephew,  Magnus  the  Good,  iii.  8524.28 

NEAT-STROKE  (naut-hogg),  stroke  of  an  axe  that  cuts  off  at 
one  blow  the  head  of  an  ox;  metaph.,  death-blow,  received 
by  one  who  neglects  to  defend  himself,  iii.  38814.15 

NECKLACE  (gull-men),  collar  of  gold  given  by  Visbur  to  his 
first  wife,  but  retained  by  him  on  deserting  her ;  his  sons, 
Gisl  and  Ondur,  claiming  it  from  him  in  vain,  lay  on  it  the 
spell  that  it  should  be  the  bane  of  the  best  man  in  his  kin,  i. 


nes — oat]  Index  III  385 

286.16 — the  spell  took  effect  on  the  fifth  direct  descendant, 
Agni,  whose  Finnish  wife  hanged  him  with  the  necklace,  ZZ^' 
34.,- — an  ornament  round  the  neck  of  Jomali,  the  god  of  the 
Biarras,  ii.  26215.18  .21  2633.,  264,,  10  28q12.13  14  10  19  23  24 

NESS-LIFTINGS,  see  Lifting  on  Nesses. 

NET  (not),  long-net,  seine,  for  herring  fishery,  i.  2i923 

NIGHT,  v.  (natta),  to  spend  a  night,  iii.  131.x, 

NIGHT-MARE  (mara),  treads  to  death  K.  Vanland  of  Sweden, 

*•    2  711-31 

NIGHT-RIDER  (kveldri'Sa),  a  troll-woman  who,  mounted  on 
a  wolf,  chooses  darkness  for  her  rides  abroad,  i.  26  ir 

NITH  (nrS),  abuse,  insult,  iii.  230^ 

NITHING,  nithingship  (niftingsskapr),  iniquitous  treatment, 
ii.  45i19 — dastardly,  villainous  action  to  fight  and  kill  people 
at  night,  iii.  452s-u 

NONES,  1.  (n6na  gen.,  nonu  fem.),  the  canonical  hour,  hora 
nona,  and  service  thereto  appertaining,  ii.  2273 — 2.  (n6n, 
neut.),  the  secular  time  of  three  o'clock  p.m.,  ii.  44228  29  iii. 

442u45Ii9 
NORTHERN  TONGUE,  better  Norwegian  tongue  (norraena), 

difficult  for  the  Kelt,  Harald  Gilli,  to  acquire,  iii.  2Q77.10 
NORTHUMBERLAND,  mostly  peopled  by  Northmen  after 

Lodbrok's  sons  had  conquered  it,  i.  i5227.33 
NOSEGILD  (nefgildi),  a  poll  or  capitation  tax  demanded  by 
K.  Olaf  Haraldson  of  the  Icelanders  through  Gellir  Thorkel- 
son  in  1027  amounting  to  a  penny  of  the  value  of  one-tenth 
of  an  ell  of  'wadmal,'  or  homespun  cloth,  ii.  27510.n  cf. 
Ell,  2. 
NUNS'  SEAT  (nunnusetr),  convent  for  nuns,  iii.  42i29 
OATH  (ei'Sr,  fullr  truna^r,  sceri,  svardagi),  occurs  in  '  Heims- 
kringla,'  even  as  early  as  Yngling  times,  as  the  most  solemn 
form  of  promissory  declarations,  1,  in  the  case  of  two  parties 
to  a  case  coming  to  a  mutual  understanding;  2,  when  one 
of  the  parties  to  a  case  submits  to  the  conditions  of  the  other. 
It  is  not  employed  to  establish  the  truth  of  a  fact,  cf.  how- 
ever, ii.  2  7222.23;  for  that  matter  the  ordeal  is  the  practice 
resorted  to  The  passage :  '  This  oath  I  make  fast  and  swear 
before  that  god,'  J?ess  strengi  ek  heit,  ok  }>vi  skyt  ek  til  gufts 
.  .  ,  i.  95j.2  should  read:  'Of  this  I  make  a  strict  vow  and 
I  take  God  for  witness ' ;  for  the  solemn  declaration  of 
vi.  cc 


386  Index  III  [oda 

individual  intention  was  not  an  oath  (which  had  to  be  ad- 
ministered) but  a  vow  (closely  akin,  of  course,  to  an  oath). 
So  also  the  words  'sworn  troth,' i.  i5216  should  read,  'special 
agreement,'  einkamal;  very  likely  it  was  accompanied  by  an 
oath  on  one  if  not  on  both  sides.  Peace  between  Ingiald 
Granmar  and  Hiorvard  bound  by  oath  and  troth  (ei^um  ok 
tryg^um),  i.  626 — Gunnhild's  sons  make  peace  with  Earl  Si- 
gurd 'bound  with  oaths'  (bundu  svardogum),  i9919.20 — and 
with  his  son  Hakon  with  full  oath  and  troth  (fullum  trtina^i), 
2o82.7 — Harald  Hardredy  and  Svein  Wolfson  make  peace 
'bounden  by  oaths'  (soett  erSum  bundin),  iii.  14833  1497 — 
Gryting  swears  oaths  of  fealty  (tninaftar  ei'Sar)  to  Har.  Hair- 
fair,  i.  9527 — Hakon  promises  to  bind  himself  by  oath  (svar- 
dagi)  to  win  Norway  for  Harald  Gormson,  238^— Earl  Sigurd 
Hlodverson  of  Orkney  '  swore  oath '  (svar^i  ei^a)  to  Olaf 
Tryggvison  and  became  his  man,  29i4.5 — Harek  bound  him- 
self with  oaths  (batt  svardogum)  not  to  stir  from  his  kid- 
nappers, 3264.5 — Earl  Hakon  Ericson  swears  (winneth)  oath 
(sver  pess  ei^Sa)  never  to  fight  against  K.  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii. 
32i7  20  39i8  4725-29 — f°r  mrther  references,  see  io823.24  i8214 
i837.g  1863  2473.4  16.l7  28s15  29  3490.3  379^  38o22— iii.  ii914 
26418  296727.28  3i384374 
ODAL-LANDS  (63ul,  pi.  of  6^al),  freehold  properties,  lands 
held  by  tenants  in  fee-simple,  as  were  the  lands  of  the  great 
mass  of  the  landowners  of  Norway  before  the  conquest  of 
Harald  Hairfair,  872,  and  of  those  of  Orkney  before  the 
murder  of  Halfdan  Highleg  by  Earl  Turf-Einar,  890.  In 
Norway  K.  Harald  '  made  all  free  lands,'  6?>ul,  his  own,  and 
caused  the  bonders  to  pay  land-dues,  landskyldir,  to  him. 
He  was  thus  the  landlord  of  the  whole  realm,  and  every  oc- 
cupier of  land  his  tenant  in  capite,  i.  963^ — this  lasted  for  only 
sixty  odd  years,  as  Hakon  the  Good,  usurping  the  kingdom 
against  his  brother  Eric  Bloodaxe,  934,  found  in  the  rescind- 
ing of  this  ordinance  the  readiest  way  to  the  popularity  that 
was  indispensable  for  his  success;  'he  offered'  (in  return  for 
being  elected  king)  to  make  them  (the  '  bonders ')  all  as  free- 
born  bonders  (at  gera  alia  bcendr  d^alborna),  and  that  they 
should  dwell  every  man  on  his  free  lands  (gefa  J^eim  d^ul  sin 
er  a  bjoggu),  i5o5.7  20.22 — in  Orkney  these  lands  passed  under 
feudal  tenure  when  the  landowners,  unable  to  find  the  blood- 


old — oun]  Index  III  387 

fine  of  sixty  marks  in  gold  which  Harald  Hairfair  imposed 
for  the  killing  of  his  son,  gave  their  lands  to  Turf-Einar  for 
liquidating  the  debt,  127^.30 — the  odal  rights  so  lost  were 
restored  to  the  landowners  by  Earl  Sigurd,  son  of  Lodvir,  ob. 
1014,  1273^1283 — K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  commentary  on  this 
subject,  ii.  i793o-i8olc 
OLD  SONGS  (forn  kvreSi),  by  contemporary  court  poets  in 
Snorri's  view  the  most  important  sources  of  authentic  history, 

L  432"5l3  7lM3 

ORDEAL  (skirsla),  a  solemn  act,  under  episcopal  control,  per- 
formed for  the  purpose  of  establishing  the  truth  of  a  statement 
made  by  the  performer.  In  '  Heimskringla '  we  find  it  in  its 
two  principal  forms,  iron-bearing  (jarnburSr)  and  iron-tread- 
ing. Bishop  Poppo  '  preached  holy  faith  before  K.  Harald 
Gormson  and  bare  glowing  iron  in  his  hand '  and  showed  it 
unhurt  afterwards,  which  proved  the  superiority  of  Christianity 
over  heathenism,  i.  257^^5 — Sigurd  Thorlakson  volunteers  to 
bear  iron  to  prove  his  innocence  of  a  crime  he  had  really 
committed,  but  gets  away  under  cover  of  darkness,  on  the 
ground  (stated  to  his  men)  that  an  ordeal  might  be  after  all 
but  a  piece  of  trickery,  ii.  2  7224.26  2  730.21 — Harald  Gilli 
performed  the  severest  ordeal  that  has  befallen  in  Norway, 
walking  over  nine  glowing  plough-shares,  to  prove  that  he 
was  the  son  of  Magnus  Barefoot,  2q6m9 — Bp.  Reinald  of 
Stavanger  offers  to  prove  by  an  ordeal  (most  probably  iron- 
bearing)  that  he  knew  naught  of  K.  Magnus  the  Blind's 
wealth  and  precious  things,  but  K.  Harald  Gilli  refused 
the  bishop  his  appeal  to  that  arbitrament,  iii.  3243.^ — Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  and  his  partisans  averred  that  he  had  '  flitted 
ordeal,'  i.e.,  borne  iron,  in  Denmark  in  the  presence  of  five 
bishops,  and  proved  that  he  was  the  son  of  K.  Magnus 
Barefoot,  which  indeed  he  was,  33700-33 — K.  Sigurd  Haraldson 
offered  to  undergo  an  ordeal  of  iron-bearing  to  prove  his 
innocence  of  the  murder  of  Ottar  Brightling,  but  never 
performed  it,  37o7.15 

OTTER  (otr),  otter  in  a  gin  (otr  i  kelpu),  a  phrase  =  reduced  to 
the  last  extremity,  iii.  2i79 

OUNCE  (eyrir,  plur.  aurar),  one-eighth  of  a  mark,  both  as  to 
weight  and  value,  in  the  latter  case  equalling  sixty  pennies. 
Two  ounces  of  silver  given  as  a  bribe  to  a  priest  to  ring  in 


388  Index  III  [oxe — pal 

service  before  its  fixed  hour,  ii.  2  2  622.30 — Archbishop  Eystein 
persuades  the  '  bonders  '  of  his  diocese  to  pay  him  their  fines 
in  a  silver  proof  ounce,  i.e.,  an  ounce  of  pure  silver  (silfrmet- 
inn),  while  heretofore  he  had  contented  himself  with  receiving 
them  in  the  fine-proof  ounce  (sakmetinn).  This  latter  ounce 
was  the  current  one,  and  in  it  were  paid  all  fines  to  the  king, 
i.e.,  all  dues  and  taxes  to  the  royal  treasury.  But  this  was  a 
currency  now  (1162)  so  debased  that  one  ounce,  silfr-metinn, 
had  the  paying  and  purchasing  power  of  two  ounces  of  the 
sakmetinn  sort.  Thus  the  archbishop  doubled  the  income  of 
his  diocese.  For  further  information  on  the  currency  of  the 
'  eyrir,'  see  Penny. 

OXEN,  or  neat  (naut),  killed,  beside  horses,  for  heathen  sacri- 
fices, ii.  1939 

OXHIDE  (uxa-hirS,  cf.  '  neat's-hide '),  raw-wet,  hanging  on  a 
horizontal  pole,  used  by  Einar  Thambarskelfir  as  a  butt, 
through  which  he  was  in  the  habit  of  shooting  a  blunt  arrow, 

11.    2  22Q_2i 

PADDOCKS  (poddur,  sing,  padda),  swarming  out  of  the  dead 
body  of  Snowfair,  i.  i2027.2S — inmates  of  the  hollow  image  of 
Thor  at  Gudbrand  a'  Dales'  temple  of  Hof  leaping  out  in  all 
directions  when  Kolbein's  club  smashed  it  in  pieces,  ii.  2o731- 
2o816 

PALACE-SPOIL  (polutasvarf,  from  poluta  or  polota,  the  Rus- 
sian form  of  iraXaTiov,  and  Scand.  svarf,  prop,  filing,  hence 
pillage,  unless  there  hides  in  'svarf  some  corruption  con- 
nected with  aapov  a  broom,  or  aaipu  to  sweep  up),  a  privilege 
alleged  to  belong  to  the  Constantinople  Varangians  to 
pillage  the  imperial  palace  on  the  demise  of  an  emperor,  iii. 

7  "12-19 
PALE  (stafr),  the  uprights  supporting  London  Bridge,  ii.  i325 

1 425-26 

PALL  (pell,  Lat.  pallium),  a  costly  stuff;  a  trailing  cloak  of, 
sent  by  Ingigerd  of  Sweden  to  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  i2  221 — the 
coffin  of  Olaf  the  Holy  wrapped  in,  and  placed  over  the  high 
altar  in  Clem.  Church,  45631.33 — used  by  besieged  people,  by 
way  of  stratagem,  as  incitement  to  the  besiegers  to  make  an 
attack  at  the  former's  convenience,  iii.  253^ — sails  set  with 
pall,  25833 — at  the  Emperor's  order  the  streets  of  Constanti- 
nople were  spread  with  pall  on  K.  Sigurd  Crusader's  entry, 


pal — pen]  Index  III  389 

259iv-2o — tne  pieces  °f  Pa^  tnat  formed  the  covers  of  the 
bolsters  on  which  K.  Harald  Gilli  and  his  queen  used  to  sit 
in  the  hall  made  a  present  of  by  them  to  Bishop  Magnus 
Einarson  of  Skalholt,  where  they  were  made  into  fore-song- 
copes,  which  still  existed  in  Snorri's  day,  335L)1..,7  3368.n — at 
K.  Magnus  Erlingson's  coronation  the  great  hall  was  hung  or 
tapestried  by  pall,  46415-10 
PALLIUM,  a  vestment,  granted  to  archbishops  by  the  Pope  in 
evidence  of  their  authority  being  derived  directly  from  him, 

iii-  3793i 
PALM  SUNDAY  (palmasunnudagr),  ii.  55.^ 

PAPAL  MISSIONS  to  Norway:  Card.  Nicolas  Breakspeare's, 
iii.  379oX-38o99 — Card.  Stephanus',  46i18 

PARTING-DRINKS  (lerSslu-drykkja);  the  translation  of  the 
word  is  guesswork,  it  being  uncertain  what  particular  kinds 
of  symposia  the  lerSslu-drykkjur  were ;  it  seems  not  improbable 
that  they  may  have  been  connected  with  funerals  under 
Christian  rite  (cf.  lerSa,  to  bury:  forsteinn  va  hann  (Grana) 
par  .  .  .  Steinarr  leiddi  hann  vppi  i  holtunum. — '  Egilssaga,' 
1888,  2973),  iii.  i92.,5 

PARTNERSHIP,  see  Trade  partnership. 

PASTURE-TOD  (vinjar-toddi,  from  vin,  gen.  vinjar,  pasture, 
grazing,  and  toddi,  which  in  a  gloss  from  ab.  1200  is  trans- 
lated crustulum),  in  the  laws  of  Svein  Alfiva's  son  the  term  for 
the  thigh  of  a  three-winter  ox  which,  at  Christmas,  every  house- 
holder had  to  present  to  the  king,  ii.  45o23 — remitted,  for 
Thrandheim  at  least,  by  K.  Hakon  Magnusson,  iii.  20519 

PATER-NOSTER  sung  by  Erling  Askew's  orders  before  the 
battle  of  Re,  1163,  iii.  45414.17 

PEACE  OF  FRODI  (Fr6«a-fri«r),  i.  2^— of  this  famous  peace 
Snorri  has  given  a  more  detailed  account  in  his  '  Edda,'  see 
F.  J6nsson's  ed.,  1900,  pp.  106-7. 

PEACE-LAND  (frrSland),  a  land  in  which  the  ruler  allowed  an 
alien  to  live  on  the  same  peace  footing  as  any  other  citizen 
enjoying  the  protection  of  the  law;  Normandy  was  such  a 
land  to  Norwegian  vikings,  ii.  2  21-7 — Olaf  the  Swede  confers 
this  and  other  privileges  on  Earl  Eric  when  fugitive  from  Nor- 
way after  the  fall  of  his  father,  345n.12 

PELTRIES  (skinna-vara),  ii.  26o9  cf.  Grey  wares. 

PENNY  (penningr,  etymology  uncertain,  not  from  Lat.  pecunia, 


39°  Index  III  [per — pil 

'  usually  identified  with  Du.  pand,  a  pawn,  pledge,  G.  pfand  ' 
Skeat).  Ordinarily  a  penningr  was  the  480th  part  of  a  standard 
mark  of  silver,  but  in  the  '  Heimskringla '  the  meaning  of  it  is 
so  vague  that  it  is  left  quite  doubtful  what  the  author  has  in 
his  mind  in  the  several  instances  where  he  uses  the  term.  A 
penny  of  some  sort  was  the  poll  tax  paid  by  the  Swedes  to 
Odin,  and  out  of  that  revenue  he  was  to  pay  war  expenditure 
and  all  costs  connected  with  sacrifices  for  good  year,  i.  2o20.23 
— Halfdan  the  Bounteous  and  the  Meat-grudging  gave  in  pay 
to  his  warriors  as  many  pennies  of  gold  as  other  kings  were 
wont  to  give  pennies  of  silver,  70^3 — each  '  bonder '  in  Ice- 
land gave  to  Eyvind  Skaldspiller  '  a  scat-penny  of  the  weight 
of  three  silver  pennies,  and  which  would  cut  white,'  2i94.s 
see  Scatpenny.  By  ab.  1027  depreciated  silver  pennies,  i.e., 
coin,  was  largely  in  circulation  in  Faroe,  ii.  Z°l\\-\i  19-30 — 
Guthorm  son  of  Ketil  Kalf  devotes  every  tenth  penny  of  the 
silver  booty  he  won  from  K.  Margath  to  the  making  of  a 
rood  for  the  church  where  Olaf  the  Holy's  relic  was  preserved 
in  Nidoyce,  iii.  i2419.21 

PERSONAL  PROPERTY:  among  the  Biarms  a  dead  person 
inherited  one-half  or  one-third  of  his  or  her  personal  property, 
which  then  was  hidden  away  either  in  woods,  or  in  howes,  or 
in  specially  built  houses,  ii.  26o23.29 

PETER'S  CHURCH  (Petrskirkja),  at  Constantinople,  receives 
for  ornament  the  gold-adorned  figure-heads  of  K.  Sigurd's 
ships,  iii.  26i98.31 

PILGRIMAGES:  to  Jerusalem:  Thorir  Hound's,  iii.  i76.9—K. 
Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's,  247l7-248u  ^-258  282^.^  29312.16 — 
Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon's,  33712-h — Erling  Askew's  and  Earl 
Rognvald's,  37ii8\57229  To  Rome:  Earl  Eric's  planned  but 
never  carried  out,  ii.  273 — Einar  Thambarskelfir's,  2358.10 — 
Sigvat's  in  1030,  iii.  i24.16  i42 — Skopti  Ogmundson's  and  his 
sons',  who  all  died  on  the  journey,  2373.^ — the  statement  that 
Skopti  was  the  first  Norwegian  to  sail  through  Norvisound 
is  probably  meant  to  convey  that  he  was  the  first  pilgrim  from 
Norway  who  passed  the  straight,  the  others  mentioned  before 
him  having  gone  overland,  2  3715.17 

PILGRIMS  (K.  Sigurd,  Erling  Askew,  and  Earl  Rognvald) 
leave  their  ships  at  Constantinople  and  make  the  return 
journey  overland,  iii.  26i20-262  372.23.29 


pil — poe]  Index  III  391 

PILGRIMS'  BADGE,  palm  in  hand,  cross  on  the  breast,  iii. 

293l4-15 

PLAYERS  (leikarar,  sing,  leikari),  with  harps  and  gigs  and 
'song-tools,'  maintained  at  the  court  of  Sweden  in  Olaf  the 
Swede's  reign,  ii.  159^  cf.  i.  373-380 

PLAYS  (leikar),  of  the  children,  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  half-brothers, 
ii.  no.20.30 

PLENARY  (plenarium),  a  book  complete  in  itself,  a  book  con- 
taining complete  a  section  of  another  larger  book,  as  f.  i.  the 
four  gospels,  out  of  the  whole  N.  Testament;  the  plenary, 
written  in  golden  letters,  which  the  patriarch  of  Constantino- 
ple (Nicolaus  Grammaticus,  1084-1111)  gave  to  K.  Sigurd, 
was  probably  one  containing  the  gospels,  iii.  3io2  33225 — 
it  is  the  same  book,  written  in  golden  letters,  to  which  refer- 
ence is  made,  28825.28  28^  ^  16.18 

PLOUGH  (plogr),  Gefion's  magic  one,  i.  i529 — plough(share), 
iii.  1554 — nine  glowing  plough-shares  walked  over  for  an 
ordeal,  296^.^ 

PLOUGH-HORSE  (arSs-geldingr),  generally  taken  to  mean  a 
plough-ox,  which  cannot  be  right.  '  Thou  wast  chased  out  of 
thy  lands  as  a  plough-gelding  out  of  stud,'  evidently  refers  to 
the  well-known  habit  of  a  stud  stallion  to  chase  every  other 
male  horse  away  from  his  flock  of  mares,  an  ox  would  be  left 
in  perfect  peace,  iii.  2i78 

PLOUGH-LAND  (plogsland),  a  day's  plough-land,  Gylvi's  gift 
to  Gefion;  the  context,  however,  seems  to  mean  that  Gylfi 
gave  her  of  his  landed  dominion  as  much  as  she  could  furrow 
off  with  a  plough  in  one  day,  i.  1525-26 

PLUNDER  (rsena)  the  slain,  forbidden  by  Olaf  the  Holy  in 
the  case  of  Erling  Skialgson,  ii.  359n-12~  plundering  generally 
held  out  by  the  same  king  as  recruiting  inducement  when  he 
was  planning  the  reconquest  of  Norway,  39315.90 

POCKET-MONEY,  spending-silver  (skot-silfr),  i"i.  <)2X  i26j 

POEMS  (kva^Si):  the  many  poems  on  which  Snorri  draws  he 
deals  with  throughout  as  historical  documents  corroborative 
of  the  veracity  of  stated  facts,  and  with  lucid  precision  he 
renders  reason  for  this  mode  of  writing  history  (which,  how- 
ever, had  been  already  adopted  by  his  predecessors).  Poems, 
he  shows,  dealt  with  history  before  and  after  Harald  Hairfair. 
To  the  former  category  belong  those  '  olden  songs  or  story- 


392  Index  III  [poe 

lays '  (forn  kvarSi  e=Sa  soguljd^)  for  the  truth  of  the  subject- 
matter  of  which  he  will  not  vouch  himself,  though  he  knows 
'  for  a  truth  that  "  men  of  lore  "  of  old  time  have  held  "  such 
lore  "  for  true,'  i.  315.19  This  is  the  poetry  which  deals  with 
the  prehistoric  tradition  that  terminates  in  Rognvald  Higher 
than  Hills,  the  last  of  the  Ynglings  commemorated  in  the 
'  Tale  of  the  Ynglings.'  '  Eyvind's  '  Haloga-Tale '  Snorri  looks 
upon  as  within  the  same  category,  i.  320-416 — Bragi  the  Old's 
'  Ragnar's-Drapa,'  of  which  one  stanza  is  quoted,  i.  i6G.14 
Snorri,  no  doubt,  regarded  in  the  same  light. 

Altogether  the  great  interest  attaching  to  poems  as  correct- 
ive or  corroborative  of  stated  facts,  centres,  in  Snorri's  view, 
in  the  court  poetry  of  the  historic  age,  which  begins  with  the 
reign  of  Har.  Hairfair  (first  cousin  of  Rognvald).  On  this 
matter  he  expresses  himself  with  a  clearness  that  would  do 
credit  to  any  modern  critic.  He  introduces  his  criticism  on 
the  value  of  this  poetry  for  historical  purposes  by  the  striking, 
yet  undoubtedly  true  statement,  that  with  King  Harald  '  were 
skalds  whose  songs  folk  yet  know  by  heart,  yea,  and  all  songs 
on  the  kings  who  have  since  held  sway  in  Norway,'2  i.  431-52 
And  then  he  goes  on,  '  most  store  we  set  by  that  which  is 
said  in  such  songs  as  were  sung  before  the  chiefs  (princes) 
themselves  or  the  sons  of  them;  and  we  hold  all  that  for  true 
which  is  found  in  these  songs  concerning  their  wayfarings  and 
their  battles,'  i.  52.6.  Here  an  equal  rank  of  importance  is 
assigned  to  Drapas  in  memoriam,  and  to  those  addressed  to 
the  person  himself,  and  Snorri's  reason  for  it  is  convincing, 
'no  one  would  dare  to  tell  (attribute  to)  the  king  himself 
deeds  which  all  who  hearkened,  yea,  and  himself  withal, 
wotted  well  were  but  vanity  (heg6mi  =  cobweb)  and  lying:' 
such  instead  of  'praise  would  be  mockery,'  i.  59.13 

This  accounts  for  the  extraordinary  copiousness  of  poetical 

1  There  are  really  thirty  ancestors  of  Rognvald  whose  '  deaths '  are  com- 
memorated in  the  poem,  Eric,  brother  of  Alrek  and  Yngvi,  brother  of  Alf, 
being  respectively  the  eleventh  and  thirteenth  in  the  order  if  one  starts  with 
Yngvi- Frey  as  No.  I.  The  verse,  or  verses,  about  Hugleik  (No.  14)  is  (are) 
lost,  and  in  several  instances  the  burial-places  are  not  mentioned,  contrary 
to  Snorri's  statement,  i.  4,, 

-  This  statement  is  not  to  be  taken  as  exclusive  of  poems  on  princes  out- 
side Norway,  which,  as  instar  omnium,  was  pre-eminently  in  the  author's 
mind  when  he  wrote  his  preface. 


Index  III  39 


poe]  .„__.  ovo 

quotations  in '  Heimskringla,'  which  altogether  amount  to  some 
627  (532  whole  stanzas,  86  half  ditto,  and  9  couplets  of 
various  kinds),  80  longer  or  shorter  poems,  and  122  occa- 
sional verses  (lausavisur)  being  laid  under  contribution.  The 
poems,  excluding  occasional  verses,  fall  into  two  groups: 
Drapa,  a  long  poem  with  refrain  with  which  it  was  customary 
to  honour  a  king,  and  '  Flock,' '  a  short  poem  without  refrain, 
contemptuously  called  drsplingr  (draphng,  the  wee-Drapa) 
by  Knut  the  Mighty  (ii.  35o22),  which  it  was  proper  to  offer 
to  an  earl  and  magnates  of  lesser  degree.  So  contrary  to 
propriety  it  was  thought  to  address  a  poem  of  this  kind  to  a 
king,  that  Thorarin  Praisetongue  had  nearly  lost  his  life  at 
the  court  of  Knut  for  such  an  indiscretion,  ii.  35o14.26.  The 
overwhelming  majority  of  the  quotations  are  in  the  standard 
court  metre,  the  drdtt-kvae^r  hattr,  typically  — w — u—  -v;  one 
in  the  so-called  hrynhenda,  typically  — v— ^ — 0 — v,  the  stately 
evolution  of  the  former;1  some  twelve  in  the  so-called  lesser 
metres,  see  the  list  below.  In  the  translation  the  original 
metres  are  reproduced  in  their  essential  characteristics;  their 
alliteration,  assonance,  and  other  metric  intricacies  could  not 
be  reproduced  in  an  English  rendering.  After  much  con- 
sideration Morris  decided  to  render  the  'kennings,'  or  cir- 
cumlocutory definitions  of  persons  and  objects  literally,  '  in 
order  to  give  the  reader  the  poets'  own  language  and  way  of 
thinking.'  The  decision  was,  like  him,  honest,  fearless,  and 
sound;  take  an  instar  omnium :  which  gives  the  truest  insight 
into  the  poet's  world  of  imagery,  the  translation  of  his  very 
words,  '  Reddener  of  Ygg's  sea-mew's  feathers '  (iii.  74  cf. 
4923-gX  or  tne  nearest  paraphrase  we  can  think  of  '  under- 
standed  of  the  people  '  without  giving  the  faculty  of  thinking 
any  trouble:  '  King,  who  spillest  blood  profusely? '  No  doubt 
readers  will  have  to  turn  from  the  verses  in  the  text  frequently 
to  the  explanations  given  in  the  notes  at  the  end  of  each 
volume.  But  after  doing  so  several  times  in  the  first  volume, 
where  the  kennings  are  most  involved,  the  oneness,  as  it  were, 
of  the  method  by  which  the  old  poets  vary  their  periphrastic 
definitions,  will  come  home  to  the  thinking  reader,  enabling 

1  Flokkr  eru  v  menn,  five  men  make  a  flock. — Sn.  Edda,  i.  532,5 
-  This  metre,  as  to  disposition  of  —  and  w  syllables,  is  an  exact  reproduc- 
tion of  that  of  the  Kalevala. 


394  Index  III  [poe 

him,  if  not  exactly  with  ease  in  all  cases,  at  least  with  interested 
curiosity  to  see  through  the  '  kennings,'  and  at  the  same  time 
to  obtain  a  view  of  the  real  arrangement  of  a  long-buried 
laboratory  of  poetical  workmanship. 

The  poems  of  '  Heimskringla '  we  give  below  in  the  alpha- 
betical order  of  their  titles,  which  had  to  be  made  up  in  cases 
where  the  sources  supply  no  distinctive  ones,  and  mostly  refer 
to  the  persons  on  whom  they  were  made;  the  occasional 
verses  follow,  headed  by  the  anonymous  group,  and  continued 
in  alphabetical  order  of  the  reputed  authors. 

For  detailed  information  about  the  court  poets  and  court 
poetry  of  the  North,  see  '  Sn.  Edda,'  vol.  iii.,  '  Corpus  poet. 
Boreale,'  vol.  ii.,  Finnur  Jonsson's  '  Den  oldnorske  og  oldis- 
landske  litteraturs  historie,'  vols,  i.-ii.,  and  vol.  iv.  of  his  ed. 
of 'Heimskringla,'  1893-1901. 

1.  Astrid's-Lay  (kvae'Si  um  'AstrfSi),  court  metre,  by  Sigvat 
Thordson,  on  Astrid,  dowager  queen  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  ab. 
1036,  iii.  512.35 

Banda-Drapa,  see  Eric's-Drapa. 
Belgskaka-Drapa,  see  Eric's-Drapa. 

2.  Biarklay  the  Ancient,  Bodvar  Biarki's  exhortation  song 
to  the  Champions  of  Rolf  Kraki  ('Saxo,'  i.  90),  sung  by 
Thormod  in  the  dawn  of  the  day  of  the  battle  of  Stickle- 
stead  so  that  it  was  heard  all  over  K.  Olafs  army,  who 
gave  it  the  title  of  '  Housecarles'  Whetting '    (huskarla- 

hvot),  ii.  40719.34 

Curtfell's-Drapa,  see  Sigurd's-Drapa. 

3.  Eastfaring  Ditties  (Austrfarar-visur),  by  Sigvat  Thord- 
son relating  to  incidents  in  connection  with  his  mission, 
1018,  to  Earl  Rognvald  in  Gautland,  ii.  93x-94i5  I44irI45i2 

15-23  25-33   I463-n  15.23  26-34  I474-20  23"J484  7-10   I497"I5°24 

4.  Elf-staves  (elfar-visur),  a  '  Flock,'  in  court  metre,  by 
Einar  Skulison  on  K.  Ingi  Haraldson's  victory  in  the  Elf, 
1 1 59,  and  the  doughty  deeds  of  Gregory  Dayson,  ab.  1159, 
iii.  414^-4153 

5.  Eric's-Drapa,  by  Glum  Geirison  on  K.  Eric  Haraldson, 
Bloodaxe,  i.  i556.14  (In  his  'Lit.  Hist.,'  i.  536  F.  J6nsson 
brings  forward  cogent  reasons  in  favour  of  this  stanza  be- 
longing to  that  poem  by  Glum  on  Eric  to  which  the  author 
of  '  Fagrskinna,'  p.   1730.32  alludes   as  'a  poem  wherein 


poe] 


Index  III  395 


mention  is  made  of  Eric  warring,  before  K.  Harald  died, 
south  about  Halland,  and  Skaney,  and  wide  about  Den- 
mark,' a  warfare  to  which  this  stanza  clearly  refers.) 

6.  Eric's  Drapa  (generally  called  '  Banda '-Drapa,  from  the 
word  '  banda '  =  numinum,  occurring  in  the  refrain),  by 
Eyolf  Dada-skald,  on  Earl  Eric  Hakonson,  after  iooo,  i. 

248.2S-2491;,  20.28  3467.16  20-20  347i4-22  27-34811  cf.  4°219.28 

7.  Eric's-Drapa  (otherwise  called  '  Belgskaka  '-Drapa,  drapa, 
'  shaken  out  of  a  skin '  ?),  by  Thord  Kolbeinson,  on  Earl 
Eric  Hakonson,  1007,  i.  2Q920.28  (repeated,  345i3-2o)- 

8.  Eric's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  by  Thord  Kolbeinson,  on 
Earl  Eric  Hakonson,  ab.  1024?  i.   27322.30  2744.12  27514.22 

27722-3i  2992<r3004  3735-12  3782.i9  ii-  267.15  2i;.34 

9.  Eric's-'  Flock,'  by  Haldor  the  Unchristened,  on  Earl  Eric 
Hakonson,  after  1000,  i.  359^3603  36210.18  369^.^  29-37°4 

37320-35  37522-31   377l2-20 

10.  Eric's-'  Flock  '  (in  memoriam),  by  Skull  Thorsteinson, 
on  Earl  Eric  Hakonson,  after  1024,  i.  3670,3-3684 

n.  Erling's-Drapa  (?),  by  Sigvat  Thordson,  on  Erling 
Skialgson,  whom  he  addresses  in  person,  so  that  the  poem, 
from  which  comes  the  one  stanza  here  given,  could  not 
have  been  the  following  '  Flock,'  ii.  2oo23.32 

12.  Erling's  'Flock'  (in  memoriam),  by  Sigvat  Thordson, 
on  the  fall  of  Erling  Skialgson,  ii.  2323.31  2414.22  35614.2r  31- 

35 76 13-21  3i-3586  11-20  3592s-36o14 

13.  Erling's-Drapa,  by  Thorbiorn  Skald  Askew  (or  rather 
Askew's  skald)  on  Erling  Askew,  iii.  3728.17  44°u-22  46o30- 
46i8 

14.  Eystein's-Drapa,  by  Einar  Skulison,  on  K.  Eystein 
Haraldson  (in  the  metre  called  the  lesser  '  runhenda,'  in 
which  the  two  lines  of  every  couplet  terminate  in  an  end- 
rhyme),  after  Eystein's  expedition  to  England,   1153,  iii. 

374o-22  375l6-20  24-32  3762-10  14-18  20-28  . 

15.  Eystein's  Drapa  (in  mem.),  by  Einar  Skuhson,  on  K. 
Eystein  Haraldson,  after  1157,  in  court  metre,  iii.  3754-12 

39^8-13 

16.  GizuR's-DRAPA,byTemple-garth-Ref,on  Gizur  Goldbrow, 
probably  shortly  after  his  fall  at  Sticklestead  in  1030,  ii. 

43094-33 

17.  Glym-Drapa  (glymr  =  din,  roar),  by  Thorbiorn  Hornklofi, 


396  Index  III  [poe 

on  the  warlike  deeds  of  Harald  Hairfair  prior  to  the  battle 
of  Hafursfirth,  872,  i.  997.26  iooH4  io220.28  io920.29  110^ 

It62-10 

18.  Gold-lack  (Vellekla),  a  drapa  by  Einar  Jinglescale  on 
Hakon  the  Mighty,  Earl  of  Ladir,  composed  probably  after 
the  great  battle  with  the  Jomsvikings,  986,  i.  2o631-2o733 
2i628-2i76  24i28-2422  7.27  24513.29  2464.1218.27  255^-2564  14.23 
3o-2574  259r.-3o  28727-2884 

19.  Grey-cloak's-Drapa  (Grafeldar-drapa)  (in  memoriam), 
by  Glum  Geirison,  on  K.  Harald  Greyfell,  i.  i5515.22  J6o1.10 

20I26-31   2I5c>-18  2393-22  243M6 

20.  Hakon's-Drapa  (Hakonar-drapa),  by  Guthorm  Cinder, 
on  K.  Hakon  the  Good,  after  955,  i.  i5625.33  iS710.18  26.30 

J586-10  26-T593  I7231-I73t5  U-19  / 798-17 

21.  Hakon's-Song  (Hakonarmal)  (in  memoriam),  by  Eyvind 
Skaldspiller,  on  the  last  fight,  death,  and  reception  in 
'Valhall'  of  Hakon  the  Good,  after  961,  i.  (i8323-i8410 
1 853.20  =  verses  2-6  of  the  complete  poem,  pp.)  1893-193. 
On  the  time  of  the  composition,  and  on  the  genuineness  of 
this  poem,  cf.  Sn.  E.  iii.  451-453. 

22.  Hakon's-Drapa,  by  Thorleif  Redfellson,  on  Earl  Hakon 
the  Mighty  of  Ladir,  after  986  (Hakon's  victory  over  the 
Jomsvikings),  i.  29820.28 

23.  Hakon's-Drapa,  by  Tind  Hallkelson,  on  Earl  Hakon 
the  Mighty  of  Ladir,  after  986  (Hakon's  victory  over  the 
Jomsvikings),  i.  27830.33  2  8312.21 

24.  Haloga-Tale  (Haleygjatal),  by  Eyvind  Skaldspiller,  an 
encomium  on  the  family  of  the  Earls  of  Ladir,  and,  in  par- 
ticular, on  Hakon  the  Mighty  himself;  the  reference  to  his 
victory  over  the  Jomsvikings  proves  it  to  be  composed 
after  986,  i.  48.10  2o30-2i12  3912.29  io421-io56  2o69.25  27732- 
27812 

25.  Harald's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  by  Arnor  Earl's-skald, 
on  Harald  Hardredy,  composed,  probably,  1066,  ii.  23413.23 
iii.  i2i3.7  13638-1373  i7628-i774  i782.10 

26.  Harald's-Drapa,  by  Thorarin  Skeggison,  on  Harald 
Hardredy,  iii.  745.10 

27.  Harald's-Drapa,  by  Thiodolf  Arnorson,  on  Harald 
Hardredy,  otherwise  called  sexstefja,  or  the  drapa  of  six 
sections  divided  by  a  refrain,  composed  1065,  iii.  5710.18 


poe] 


Index  III  397 


637-16  7ijh,  74u-u  7729-786  8s1.10  io710.18  133^8-16  I352s- 

I364   r37l317  23-31    I5331"I54S  13-21  27-31   SS_I558   1 842G-30   l85ci4 

28.  Harald's-Drapa,  by  Bolverk  Arnorson,  the  brother  of 
Thiodolf,  on  Harald  Hardredy,  after  1047,  iii.  581S.26  5913.2i 

875-H  942s-95io 

29.  Harald's-Drapa  (in  memonam,  generally  called  StuPs- 

Drapa,  or  Stiifa),  by  Stuf  the  Blind,  son  of  Thord,  on  K. 
Harald  Hardredy,  ab.  1067,  iii.  7i17.27  724i2  7625-29  9629"974 

98io-24  I93l^28  ... 

30.  Harald's  Stick  (Haraldsstikki),  111.  i6821.29 

31.  Harald's-Drapa,  by  Haldor  Gabbler,  on  K.  Harald 

Gilli,  from  ab.  1135,  iii.  3l62S-32  3x9i5-24 

32.  Harald's-Drapa  (in  the  metre  called  togdrapu  lag),  by 
Einar  Skulison,  on  K.  Harald  Gilli,  ab.  1135,  iii.  3233.7 

33.  Harald's-Drapa,  another  poem  by  Einar  on  K.  Harald 
Gilli,  in  the  ordinary  drapa-metre,  from  about  1134,  iii. 

334ii-22 

34.  Harald's  Sons'  (encomium),  by  Einar  Skulison,  fromab. 

1 142,  iii.  36805-3693 

35.  Head-ransom  (Hofu^lausn,  cf.  OlaPs  saga,  1849,  46.21.37 
Fms.  v.  173-175),  by  Ottar  the  Swart,  addressed  to  Olaf 
the  Holy,  ii.  5i8,27  61.u  882-98  i59.26  i6l7.25  i77.15  i87.15  2o30- 

2I4  29lS-3°4  3*1*29  Io82S-IO920  i87m7 

36.  Head-ransom  (HoftrSlausn),  by  Thorarin  Praisetongue, 
addressed  to  Knut  the  Mighty,  ii.  35o25.26 — only  the  refrain, 
two  lines,  now  remains.  By  these  Head-ransoms  each  poet 
averted  the  execution  of  a  death  sentence  decided  on  by 
their  respective  masters;  in  Ottar's  case,  because  he  had 
provoked  K.  Olafs  jealous  ire  by  a  poem  to  his  queen 
Astrid,  in  Thorarin's,  because  he  had  had  the  presumption 
to  address  a  '  Flock '  to  K.  Knut.  Ottar's  poem  dates  from 
1022,  Thorarin's  from  1027. 

37.  lNGi's-DRAPA,by  Kolli,  elsewhere  mentioned  as  Kollihinn 
prii^i  (stately),  on  K.  Ingi  Haraldson,  from  ab.  1137,  iii. 

35°3-i2  35 J 10-20  .    n  ,  „        ,     ,    ,  .    . 

38.  Kalf's-'  Flock,'    by    Biarni    Goldbrow's-skald   (son   of 

Hallbiorn),  on  the  landed  magnate  Kalf,  the  son  of  Ami, 
from  1051,  ii.  36i10.2S  37521-30  376io-23  433i7-26  ni-   Ion-20 

2  I  g.j3 

39.  Kl^eng's-'  Flock,'  by  Thord  Siarekson,  on  Klaeng,  son 


398  Index  III  [poe 

of  Brusi  (an  otherwise  unknown  person),  from  about  1015, 

"•  5320-27 

40.  Knut's-Drapa,  otherwise  generally  called  'Togdrapa' 
(tog  =  tug,  stretch;  the  two-line  refrain  being,  as  it  were, 
stretched,  in  that  its  first  line  begins,  its  second  ends  each 
section  (stefjamal)  of  the  poem),  by  Thorarin  Praisetongue, 
on  K.  Knut  the  Mighty,  from  1028-29,  ii.  35o29-35213 

41.  Knut's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  by  Sigvat  Thordson,  on 
K.  Knut  the  Mighty,  from  about  1036,  also  in  the  metre 
called  togdrapulag,  imitative  of  the  preceding,  ii.   2  719.24 

3I232-3I3i8  3T524-3l68  3I927-32°4  26-35 

42.  Knut's-Drapa,   by  Ottar  the  Swart,  on  K.  Knut  the 

Mighty,  from  1027,  ii.  32  36.16 

43.  Knut's-Drapa,  by  Hallward  Hareksblesi,  on  K.  Knut 
the  Mighty,  soon  after  1028,  ii.  35313.23 

44.  Magnus'-Drapa,  more  commonly  known  by  the  name 
of  its  stately  metre,  Hrynhenda,  by  Arnor  Earls'-skald,  on 
K.  Magnus  the  Good,  from  1045-6,  iii.  6l7.25  7„.n  2  7l7.25 

3  2 10-19  24-33  5°33"5I8 

45.  Magnus'-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  by  Arnor  Earls'-skald, 
on  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  from  1047,  iii.  37.10  19-44  2615.24 

2  727-35  3"l3-22  30"37e  40iM9  493r5°6  9-17 

46.  Magnus'-Flock,  by  Thiodolf  Arnorson,  on  Magnus  the 
Good,  from  1045,  iii.  6M0  io2.10  2  72.10  3i1(H8  4o7.15  22-4i4  14.18 

27"428  10-18  20-33   4322~44e    11-27    4°22-31   47215   17-26  31~4°6    5X10-18 

47.  Magnus'-Drapa,  by  Biorn  Cripplehand,  on  K.  Magnus 
Barefoot,  after  1097,  iii.  2o818.27  2i34.13  20.2S  22i27-22212  29- 

223e  14-23  224l0-15 

48.  Magnus'-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  by  Thorkel  Hammer- 
skald,  on  K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  after  1103,  iii.  20925-2io2 

2I223-30  224i7-24 

49.  Nesiar-Ditties,  a  '  Flock '  by  Sigvat  Thordson,  on  the 
battle  of  Nesiar,  1015,  ii.  5724.32  58^  13.21  2(5.34  59l0.18  21-6o6 

17-25  63l3'644 

50.  Niz'-Staves,  by  Stein  Herdisson,  on  the  battle  of  Niz 

river,  1062,  iii.  i3223-3i  I34i9-28  I355-i4  16-25 

5 1 .  Olaf's-Drapa,  by  Hallfred  Troublous-skald,  on  K.  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  from  997,  i.  25o10.l7  (in  the  original  text  this 
strophe  is,  by  scribal  slip,  attributed  to  Hailstone  [Hallar- 
steinn])  253^  25430-2558  26o13.18  261^  30-26212 


poe] 


Index  III  399 


52.  Olaf's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  by  Hallfred  Troublous- 
skald,  on  Olaf  Tryggvison,  from  1002,  i.  36524.33  3685.13 

37°28*a  375-2-n  3 7 67-15  i9"3778  .  . 

53.  Olaf's  Cruise,  or  the  tale  of  Olaf's  viking-fights,  a  col- 
lection of  verses,  by  Sigvat  Thordson,  celebrating  the  bat- 
tles fought  by  Olaf  the  Holy  before  1014,  when  he  returned 
to  Norway,  ii.  627-74  io27-n4  1S.26  i27.15  i527.35  i67.1G  i716.24 

30"  l  &i  25-34   X  96-20  2°1S   2I513  3  2  26-34 

54.  Olaf's-Flock,  by  Bersi  Skald-Torvason,  on  Olaf  the 
Holy  '  which  he  wrought  when  he  came  into  King  Olaf's 
power,'  and  thus  has  been  a  sort  of  HofuSlausn,  ii.  6i5.31 

55.  Olaf's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  'Erfidrapa  Olafs  konungs,' 
by  Sigvat  Thordson,  on  Olaf  the  Holy.  Snorri  states,  ii. 
4I224-27>  tnat  Sigvat  fashioned  this  drapa  after  '  the  Uprising 
story,'  and  the  same  statement  is  found  in  Fornm.  sog.,  v. 
6423.2-,  with  the  further  explanation,  2io7.29,  that,  at  first, 
it  was  Sigvat's  intention  to  fashion  his  drapa  after  the  story 
of  Sigurd  Fafner's-slayer,  but  changed  his  mind  on  re- 
ceiving a  message  from  Olaf  through  the  medium  of  a 
woman  whose  husband  he  had  cured  in  a  miraculous 
manner.  By  '  the  Uprising  story '  must  be  meant  the  gos- 
pel account  of  the  Resurrection.  The  time  of  composition 
would  seem  to  be  a  year  or  two  after  Olaf's  death,  ii. 

3I024-32    37!3-28    4I224-4I34    15-24    426g.n    4z810-18    20-24  429l0-14 
19-27    30"43°6    43I3-11    4323-ii    15.24    43327-35    44230-443l7    45726- 

4582  46o21.3o  4613-n  iii-  i614.23  27-i74 

56.  Olaf's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  otherwise  generally  called 
Geisli  (Beam  or  Ray),  by  Einar  Skulison,  a  poem  in 
seventy-one  eight-line  stanzas,  recited  in  Nidoyce  cathedral 
in  honour  of  St.  Olaf  on  the  occasion  of  the  archiepiscopal 
see  being  erected  in  1152,  iii.  302l7.2tJ  (37th  stanza). 

57.  Olaf's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  'Erfidrapa  Olafs  konungs,' 
also,  in  other  records,  called  Rood-Drapa,  r6S5u-drapa,  by 
Thord    Siarekson,    on    Olaf    the    Holy,    after    1030,    ii. 

323l7-20 

58.  Olaf's-Drapa,  by  Stein  Flerdisson,  on  K.  Olaf  the 
Quiet,  from  ab.  1070,  iii.  i689.l7  i8729-i88g  19115.23  2oi5.30 
— this  drapa  has  a  'klofa-stef,'  or  cleft,  split-up  refrain  of 
three  lines,  each  of  which  comes  in  as  the  last  line  in 
separate  stanzas,  see  iii.  499,  note  to  p.  168,  r. 


400  Index  III  [poe 

59.  Peace-Lay  (by  Halli  the  Stiff  who,  by  both  recensions 
of  the  '  Skaldatal,'  was  a  poet  at  the  court  of  Harald  Hard- 
redy  and,  though  not  named  in  our  text  of  '  Heimskringla,' 
is  stated  in  other  records  to  be  the  author  of  the  verses  we  here 
attribute  to  him,  cf.  F.  J6nsson  in  S.E.  iii.  606-7),  on  the 
peace-meeting  at  the  Elf  between  Kings  Harald  Hardredy 
and  Svein  Wolfson  in  the  spring  of  1064,  iii.  1477.24  28-35 

HK<&  I49i-8 

60.  Ragnar's-Drapa,  by  Bragi  the  Old  (Boddason),  descrip- 
tive of  K.  Ragnar  (Lodbrok's?)  gift  of  a  painted  shield; 
from  ab.  850?  i.  i66.14 

61.  Raven's-song  (Hrafnsmal),  by  Thorbiorn  Hornklofi  on 
Harald  Hairfair's  court-life  and,  in  particular,  on  the  battle 
of  Hafursfirth,  872,  i.  109.^  ii23-ii36  ii4.24.30 

62.  Seacalm's-Lay  (GlselognskiriSa;  gtelogn  =  dead  calm, 
probably  suggestive  of  the  profound  quiet  that  reigned  in 
Norway  immediately  after  the  catastrophe  of  Sticklestead, 
cf.  F.  J6nsson,'Lit.  Hist.,'i.  616),  by  Thorarin  Praisetongue 
on  K.  Svein  Alfiva's  son,  from  1032,  ii.  44901-33  4583-4593,; 

63.  Sentbit   (Sendibitr),    by   Jorun    the   Skald-maiden,    i. 

J374-9 

64.  Sigurd's-balk  (SigurSar-balkr),  by  Ivar  Ingimundson,  on 
Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  1140,  iii.  33724.33  344i3-2i 

65.  Sigurd's-Drapa,  by  Kormak  Ogmundson,  on  Sigurd 
Hakonson,  Earl  of  Ladir,  from  ab.  959,  i.  i66r.iy 

66.  Sigurd's-Lay  (originally,  perhaps,  called  'Utfarar-kviSa, 
in  the  metre  of  '  Ancient  words,'  fornyrSislag),  by  Haldor 
Gabbler,  on  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  journey  to  the 
Holy  Land,  iii.  25339-2544 

67.  Sigurd's-Drapa  (called  'Utfarardrapa),  by  Halldor  Gab- 
bler (in  common  court  metre)  on  the  same  subject,  person- 
ally addressed  to  the  king,  iii.  2  5o18.2734-25isl7.2127.32  252^ 

12-17  254s-13  28-33  2553-S  25°4-9 

68.  Sigurd's-Drapa,  by  Einar  Skulison,  on  the  same  subject, 
from  some  time  anterior  to  11 30,  the  year  of  the  king's 
death,  iii.  24910.18  24.32  25621.30  257^  25810.18 

69.  Sigurd's-Drapa  (generally  called  CurtfelPs — Stuttfeldar 
— Drapa),  by  Thorarin  Curtfell,  on  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer,  in  the  metre  called  toglag,  ab.  n  20,  iii.  2482(5-2496 

254l4-22 


poe]  Index  III  401 

70.  Sigurd's-Drapa,  by  EinarSkulison,  on  K.  Sigurd  Harald- 
son  (Mouth),  from  about  1148,  iii.  3786.15 

71.  Staves  of  Naked  Says  (Bersoglisvi^ur),  a  'Flock,'  by 
Sigvat  Thordson,  censuring  the  policy  of  revenge  adopted 
by  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  from  1038,  iii.  2  218-24,8 

72.  Svein's-'Flock,'  an  anonymous  poem  on  K.  Svein  Alfiva- 
son's  victory  over  Tryggvi  Olaf's  son,  1033,  ii.  4651(i.25 

73.  Svein's-Flock,  by  Thorleik  the  Fair,  on  K.  Svein  Wolf- 
son  of  Denmark,  from    1049-50,  iii.   9724-989  99^  23.30 

IOI16-24  3<TI024 

74.  Thoralf's-Drapa,  by  Thord  Siarekson,  on  Thoralf 
Skolmson,  i.  18433.33  l87ig-35 

75.  Thorfin's-Drapa  (in  memoriam),  by  Arnor  Earls'-skald, 
on  Thorfin  Sigurdson,  Earl  of  Orkney,  who  died  1064,  ii. 

I7°l7-22   l8815-20 

76.  Tryggvi's-Flock  (in  memoriam),  by  Sigvat  Thordson, 
on  Tryggvi  Olafson,  who  fell  1033,  ii.  4656.15 

77.  Walthiof's-Flock,  by  Thorkel,  son  of  (Thord)  Skalli, 
on  Earl  Walthiof,  son  of  Siward,  after  1066,  iii.  i8i<>5.33 
io212.20 

78.  Westfaring-Ditties  (Vestrfararvisur),  by  Sigvat  Thord- 
son, ab.  1027,  ii.  254H.20  314^  15.23  27.35  3i5x.10  3349-i7  23-31 

79.  Wolf's-Flock  (in  memoriam),  by  Stein  Herdis'  son,  on 
Wolf  Uspakson,  K.  Harald  Hardredy's  marshal,  who  died 
1066,  iii.  (io418.19)  i3319.28 

80.  Yngling-tale  (Ynglingatal),  by  Thiodolf  of  Hvin,  i.  220.23 
4i-3  Ynglings  commemorated,  in  alphabetical  order:  Adils, 

517-23;  Agni>  3417-295  Alf.  377-23;  Alrek>35i8-3(>;  Aun,432o-446; 
Day  the  Wise,  3224-33(i;  Domald,  2925-3o4;  Domar,  3o15.26; 

Dyggvi,  3 1 1-12;  Egn.  Foe  of  Tunni,  46^.34;  Eric,  3519.30; 
Eystein  Adilsson,  5220-534;  Eystein  Halfdanson,  6914.26; 
Fiolnir,  2512.20;  Gudrod,  7  I29"72i2^  Halfdan  Eysteinson, 
7o,,.21;  Halfdan  Whiteleg,  6726-688;  Hugleik,  verse  or  verses 
lost>  372ti"38;  Ingiald  Evilheart,  645,20;  Jorund,  4i18.26;  Olaf 
Geirsteadelf,  733.19;  Olaf  Treeshaver,  6620.32;  OttarVendil- 
crow,  4815.31;  Road-Onund,  5625-576;  Rognvald  Higher- 
than-the-Hills,  7305.34 ;  Swegdir,  2612.24;  Vanland,  2  721.33; 
Visbur,  2826-290;  Yngvar,  5324-544;  Yngvi.  377-33 
Finally,  mention  may  be  made  of  Eyvind's  '  Drapa  on  all 
the  men  of  Iceland,'  i.  2194  the  highest  rewarded  poem  of 

VI.  DD 


402  Index  III  [poe 

old  on  record:    a  cloak-clasp  of  refined  silver,  worth  fifty 
marks,  being  the  honorar  sent  to  the  author  for  it.    The 
poem,  except,  perhaps,  one  single  couplet,  is  lost. 
Occasional  Verses  (Lausavisur),  by: 

I.  Anonymous  Authors. 

i.  on  Turf-Einar's  fight  with  Thorir  Woodbeard  and  Kalf 
Skurvy,  i.  I2312.13 

2.  on  K.  Harald  Gormson,  i.  26812.19 

3.  on  Olaf  the  Holy's  sail  to  Denmark,  1027,  ii.  311^.^ 

4.  on  Thorkel  Gusher's  daughters,  1048,  iii.  9521.28 

5.  on  the  burning  of  Heathby  by  Harald  Hardredy,  1049, 

iii-  982S-35 

6.  on  K.  Harald  Hardredy's  escape  from  the  Limbfirth,  1061, 

iii.  i282],22 

7.  on  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  i8725.28  2oo27-2oi2 

8.  on  K.  Hakon  Magnusson,  1093,  iii.  2o63.10 

9.  on  Thorir  Hound's  dealings  with  Vidkunn,  11 94,  iii.  2ii9.16 

10.  on  K.  Ingi  Steinkelson,  1100,  iii.  22714.17 

11.  on  the  Welshman  Gifford,  1100,  iii.  2  29l7.24 

12.  on  Waterworm  Dayson,  n 37,  iii.  355i-2 

13.  on  'sinew-bound'  craft  made  by  Finns,  1139,  iii.  35714-i7 

14.  on  Onund  Simonson's  relations  to  Sigurd  of  Reyr,  1161, 
iii.  44o6.13 

II.  Authors  Named. 

15.  Bryniolf  Camel,  ab.  1018,  ii.  80^ 

16-17.  Eldiarn,  satire  on  Gifford  of  Wales,  iii.  22930-23o816.24 

18.  Eyvind  Skaldspiller,  praise  of  Hakon  the  Good,  ab. 
961,  i.  i8o12.22  (19824-20) 

19.  war-warning  to  Hakon  the  Good  at  Fitiar,  961,  i. 

181 24-32 

20.  advice  to  K.  Hakon,  not  to  flee  before  the  sons  of 

Eric,  961,  i.  i82]3.22 

21.  on  K.  Hakon  and  Eyvind  Braggart,  961,  i.  i864.12 

22.  on  Thoralf  Skolmson  and  Alf  Ashman,   961,  i. 

1  "620-28 

23.  to  K.  Harald  Greycloak,  when  advised  to  become 

his  skald,  i.  1992-8 

24.  on  K.  Harald,  charging  him  with  burying  money 

in  the  earth,  i.  i9926.35 

25.  on  the  same  subject,  i.  2oo2.9 


poe] 


Index  III  403 


26.  Evvind  Skaldspiller  :  confesses  to  his  love  for  K.  Hakon 
the  Good,  and  pleads  old  age  for  notservingHarald,i.  2oo1G.24 

27.  to  K.  Harald  Greycloak  in  bitter  irony:  'now  you 

ought  to  be  satisfied  having  secured  my  prized  heirloom,' 

i.   2OO31-2OI0 

28.  on  snowstorm  in  mid-summer,  i.  2i822.28 

29.  on  a  boating  expedition  for  the  purchase  of  herring, 

i.  2i916.27 

30.  on  the  price  he  had  to  pay  for  the  fish,  i.  2i930- 

220fi 

31.  Gizur  Goldbrow:  a  stave  to  cheer  up  the  army  of  K. 
Olaf  at  Sticklestead,  1030,  ii.  4°5io-i9 

32.  Glum  Geirison:  'Boasting  over  the  fall  of  K.  Hakon 
the  Good,'  ab.  961,  i.  ^j.^  cf.  i8o12.14 

33.  Grani  :  on  Thorkel  Gusher's  ransoming  of  his  daughters, 
1048,  iii.  963.n 

34.  Hallfred  Troublous-skald  :  on  the  gift  of  a  sword  by 
Olaf  Tryggvison,  999,  i.  33830-3395 

35.  Harald  Hairfair:  finding  fault  with  his  men  for  their 
love  of  mead,  i.  i2iir.20 

36.  Harald  Hardredy:  refusal  to  withdraw  from  fighting 
at  Sticklestead,  1030,  ii.  4iol7.24 

37.  'little  honoured  now,  may  become  famous  here- 
after,' 1030  or  1031,  iii.  58^ 

38.  one  of  his  '  merry  verses,'  sixteen  in  all,  and  all 

ending  with  a  refrain  to  Ellisif  in  the  Garths,  afterwards 
his  wife,  iii.  7524.34 

39.  on   coming    to    anchor    in    Godnfirth,    1047,     ill. 

94i6-21  .   . 

40.  suspicious  of  Einar  Thambarskelfir  aspiring  to  the 

crown  of  Norway,  1049,  iii.  io8I5.27 

41.  confesses  indirectly  that  he  compassed  the  death 

of  Kalf  Arnison,  1051,  iii.  I2i26-i222 

42. charge  to  his  men  to  follow  his  example  and  doff 

their  byrnies  at  the  battle  of  Stamford  bridge,  1066,  iii. 

1  75413 

43.    vows  to  some  lady  (uncertain  which,   Ellisif  or 

Thora?)  to  bear  himself  boldly  in  the  coming  battle,  1066, 

*»•    X  7520-27 

44.  Harek  of  Thiotta:  declines  to  join  K.  Olaf's  retreat 


404  Index  III  [poe 

over-land  after  the  battle  of  the   Holy  River,   1028,  ii. 

*j  *}   T 

45.  Harek  of  Thiotta:  on  his  sail  in  autumntide  from  the 
south  of  Sweden  ( Holy  River)  north  to  Halogaland,  ii.  33  224.34 

46.  Hild,  Rolf  Nefia's  daughter:   pleads  with  Hairfair  for 
peace  for  her  son  Rolf  Wend-a-foot,  i.  n810.19 

47.  Illugi  Bryndalers'-skald  :    on  Harald  Hardredy  in 
Greek  service,  iii.  63l7.21 

48.  Jokul  Bardson  :  on  his  appointment  to  the  command 
of   K.   Olaf's  abandoned  longship,  the   Bison,    1029,  ii. 

3734-12 

49. his  death  song,  1030,  11.  37325-32 

50.  Magnus  Barefoot:  on  Gifford's  failing  to  answer  the 

roll  call,  ii.  2  2914.15 
51. love   ditties   to    Mathild   the    Kaiser's   daughter, 

iii.  234 
52.  Odd  Kikina-skald  :   on  K.  Magnus  the  Good,   1044, 

iii.  5o23.32 

53. on  the  death  of  K.  Magnus,  1046,  iii.  9i19.28 

54.  Olaf  the  Holy  :   boasting  of  the  slaughter  of  Erling 

Skialgson,  1028,  ii.  36o29-i6i4 
55. sings   through  a  dream  warning   to   his  brother 

Harald  against  the  expedition  to  England,  1066,  iii.  165%-u 

56.  Sigurd   Jerusalem-farer  :    on  Thorarin  Curtfell,  iii. 

2  869-11 

57.  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon:   on  his  stay  in  the  Finn-cot, 

1039,  iii.  3573-ii 

58.  Sigvat  Thordson  :    to  Olaf  the  Holy,  praying  to  be 
allowed  to  be  his  skald,  10 15,  ii.  5i29-526 

59.  on  K.  Olaf's  legislation,  ii.  6824.2S 

60.  on  Knut's  claim  to  Olaf  to  become  his  vassal,  1025, 

ii.  2  554.12 

61.  on  the  treason  against  K.  Olaf  fostered  by  K.  Knut's 

bribery,  1027,  ii.  336e-20 

62.  if  K.  Olaf's  men  take  bribes  from  Earl  Hakon,  let 

them  look  to  it,  1027,  ii.  33625-34 

63.  praying  K.  Olaf  for  a  sword,  1027,  ii.  33715-23 

64.  on   the  spreading   treason   in    Norway,    1028,   ii. 

34612-20 

65. to  make  the  best  of  a  bad  case,  1028,  ii.  34633-347^ 


poe]  Index  III  405 

66.  Sigvat  Thordson  :  on  the  first  news  of  K.  Olaf's  death, 

1030,  iii.  i28.16 

67.  on  his  grief  for  his  departed  master,  1030, 111.  1 221.29 

68.  on  the  same  subject,  ab.  1030,  iii.  i33.n 

69.  present  grief  contrasted  to  past  pleasures  with  Olaf, 

1030,  iii.  13-20-27 

70.  repels  "the  charge  of  having  deserted  Olaf  in  his 

greatest  need,  1030,  iii.  i330-i44 

71.  the  hills  of  Norway  in  mourning  for  Olaf,  1030,  iii. 

1 45-14 

72.  on  his  eagerness  for  news  of  Olaf's  son,  Magnus, 

before  1035,  iii.  1421-32 

73.  welcome  to  Magnus  on  becoming  King  of  Norway, 

i<>35>  »*■  15e-u 

74.  same  subject,  111.  1 5l7.25 

75.  advice  to  Alfhild,  Magnus'  mother,  to  be  modest 

in  her  prosperity  (1035?),  iii.  i531.34 

76.  Thiodolf  Arnorson:  on  the  battle  of  Riveroyce,  1043, 

iii.  435.13 
77.78.  on  K.  Magnus'  fire  and  sword  work  in  Fion, 

1043,  iii.  454-20  .      r  „    0     .       . 

79-83.  on   K.    Magnus'  pursuit  of  K.  Svein   through 

Skaney,  1044,  iii.  48s-4919 

84.  on  K.  Harald  Hardredy's  war  service  in  Russia, 

iii-  5830-596  ,     „      JJ 

85.  on  K.  Magnus  the  Good's  war  preparations  against 

the  allies    Harald   Hardredy  and    Svein  Wolfson,    1044, 
iii.  8o4.12 

86.  capping  a  verse  of  Har.  Hardredy's  on  coming  to 

anchor  in  Godnfirth,  iii.  9422-27 

87.93.  on  K-  Har-  Hardredy's  new  war-dragon,  and 

sail  to   meet   K.   Svein    in   battle  at   the   Elf,    1061,   iii. 

1 2 927" I3°G  10-34   I3I4-12  14-23  26-34       ,    ,  TT       , 

94.  on  the  fight  in  Gautland  between  Har.  Hardredy 

and  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson,  1064,  iii.  i523.n 

95.  declares  he  will  look  after  K.  Harald's  sons  should 

he  fall,  1066,  iii.  i7528-3G  „     ,      .  , 

96.  Harald  Hardredy's  expedition  to  England    need- 
less,' 1066,  iii.  i77i6-24 

97.  Thiodolf  of  Hvin  :  repartee  to  Harald  Hairfair,  i.  1 2 121.26 


406  Index  III  [poe 

98.  Thiodolf  of  Hvin  :  warning  his  fosterson  Gudrod 
Haraldson  not  to  risk  a  stormy  sea  voyage,  i.  1343-11 

99.  Thorarinn  Curtfell  :  begging  K.  Sigurd  for  a  cloak 
to  replace  his  '  curt  fell,'  iii.  28612.20 

IOO<  on  Hakon  Serkson,  called  Suet-Neck,  iii.  2874.H 

10 1.  on  Ami  Foreshore-skew,  iii.  2  8727.35 

102.  Thorfinn  Mouth:  cheering  K.  Olaf's  army  at  Stickle- 
stead,  1030,  ii.  4o520.2S 

103.  Thorgeir  Fleck":  points  out  to  K.  Magnus  the  Good 
the  slayers  of  his  father,  iii.  i^s 

104.  Thorir  Hound  :  a  snatch  apparently  of  little  meaning. 
But  the  '  four  fellows '  alluded  to  may  point  to  the  four 
leaders  of  the  faction  against  K.  Magnus  :  Svein  Haraldson 
who  '  took  to  the  steering  of  the  flock '  (cf. '  and  set  one  to 
the  rudder'),  Thorir  himself,  Egil  Aslakson,  and  Skialg 
iii.  2i29.n  (cf.  2092.25) 

105.  Thormod  Coalbrow-skald  :  advises  wholesale  burn- 
ing of  Upper-Thrandheim  at  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  coun- 
cil  of  war   before   the   battle   of  Sticklestead,    1030,   ii. 

4°  2  22-30 

106.  cheering  on  the  king's  army  at  Sticklestead,  1030, 

"•  40529-4064 

107.  declares  his  devotion  unto  death  to  K.  Olaf,  1030, 

ii.  4o819.28 

108.  K.  Olaf  the  boldest  fighter  at  Sticklestead,  1030, 

ii.  44o4.12 

109-110.  the  reason  of  his  being  pale  of  face  after  the 

battle,  1030,  ii.  440^-4414  12.21 
in.  Troll-quean  I:   dreamsong  of  evil  omen  to  Harald 

Hardredy,  1066,  iii.  i6330-i648 

112.  Troll-quean  II:  likewise,  iii.  i6424.33 

113.  Turf-Einar  :  my  brothers  do  naught  to  avenge  on 
Halfdan  Highleg  the  slaying  of  our  father  (Earl  Rognvald 
of  Mere),  so  I  must  do  it,  ab.  890,  i.  125^-1265 

114.  on  the  revenge  taken  on   Halfdan  Highleg,  ab. 

890,  i.  i2612.20 

115. on  the  news  of  Halfdan's  brethren  threatening  to 

wreak  revenge  on  him,  ab.  890,  i.  i2626.35 
116.  ■  on  hearing  of  Harald  Hairfair's  punitive  expedition 

to  the  Orkneys,  891,  i.  i2  78.16 


poe]  Index  III  407 

117.  Valgard  of  the  Mead:  on  Harald  Hardredy's  de- 
parture from  Russia,  1044,  iii.  77514 

nS.  on   Harald  and   Svein's  joint  fleet  sailing  from 

Sweden  for  Denmark,  1045,  iii.  7813..:] 

II9_I2I-  on   their   harrying   in    Denmark,    1045,    iii. 

78-n-79i6 
122.  Vitgeir  the  Wizard  :   refusing  to  Harald  Hairfair  to 

renounce  wizardry,  since  his    son    Rognvald   Straightleg 

practised  it,  i.  13311-20 
POETS  (skald).  The  court  poets,  who  were  in  a  certain  sense 
the  historiographers  royal  during  the  era  of  court  minstrelsy, 
enjoyed  a  position  favoured  and  protected  by  their  master 
and  highly  regarded  by  their  fellow-courtiers.  Of  their  privi- 
leged existence  they  made  appropriate  use.  In  their  songs 
they  duly  praise  the  author  of  the  deeds  they  celebrate,  never 
deliberately  flattering  him.  The  problem  their  art  had  to 
solve  was,  how  to  leave  historical  truth  unobscured  by  pro- 
fessional eulogy,  how  to  be  true  to  this  principle  and  dutiful 
to  their  patron  at  the  same  time.  The  school  they  had  to  go 
through  for  the  solution  of  this  problem  created  them  a  class 
of  independent,  free-spoken,  justice-loving  men,  influencing, 
when  they  have  the  opportunity,  the  king  invariably  in  favour 
of  justice  and  humanity.  Thiodolf  boldly  tells  Har.  Hairfair 
in  a  song  that  though  he  found  his  veterans  flocking  too 
numerously  to  the  mead  drink,  he  did  not  complain  of  their 
number  when  they  were  sacrificing  limb  and  life  in  his  war 
service,  i.  i2i21.25— Hallfred's  bargain  with  Olaf  Tryggvison 
for  allowing  himself  to  be  christened,  i.  33725"338io'  is.  a 
typical  instance  of  the  Icelanders'  cool  way  of  taking  liberties 
with  kings — Eyvind  is  the  only  one  among  Hakon  the  Good's 
courtiers  who  ventures  to  disturb  the  king's  banquetat  Fitjar  by 
telling  him,  in  a  proverbial  utterance  followed  by  a  song,  that 
war  was  upon  him,  i.  i8i2.32— by  his  bold  denunciation  of  the 
miserly  sons  of  Eric,  and"  in  particular  of  Harald  Greycloak, 
he  ran  the  risk  of  his  life,  and  ultimately  refused  to  serve  the 
latter,  on  the  obviously  ironical  plea  that  he  was  too  old, 
although  he  was  first  cousin  once  removed  of  the  king  him- 
self, i.  iq831-2oi8— Bersi  Skald-Torvason's  relations  to  Olaf 
the  Holy  were,  on  the  poet's  own  showing,  frank  and  almost 
familiar,  i.  6o32-6i31— Sigvat's  answer  to  Olaf  the  Holy,  in 


408  Index  III  [por — pri 

respect  of  his  unauthorized  baptism  of  the  latter's  son  Magnus, 
is  a  model  of  loyal  frankness,  ii.  23610-2372 — the  poets  Gizur 
and  Ottar  at  the  court  of  Olaf  the  Swede  were  noted  for 
boldness  of  speech,  ii.  9218.22 — Stein  Skaptison's  behaviour 
to  Olaf  the  Holy  was  not  far  removed  from  rudeness,  ii. 
2  7  812-32 — how  these  bearers  of  the  highest  culture  in  the 
north  were  ever  ready  to  serve  the  ideal  of  humanity  and 
high-mindedness  is  exemplified  by  the  noble  conduct  of 
Guthorm  Cinder  when  he  succeeded  in  appeasing  the  terrible 
Hairfair  and  his  infant  terrible,  Halfdan  the  Black,  i.  136- 
i374 — by  Thiodolf's  persuading  the  same  ruthless  tyrant  to 
desist  from  repudiating  his  sons  by  Snowfair,  '  for  fain  had 
they  been  of  a  better-born  mother  hadst  thou  gotten  them 
one,'  i.  i2i3.30 — and  last,  but  by  no  means  least,  by  Sigvat's 
conversion  of  Magnus  Olafson  from  an  avenging  scourge  of 
of  his  people  to  a  guardian  of  law  and  justice,  iii.  2i16-252 

PORCH  (svalir),  see  Gallery. 

PORPOISE  (hnisa),  a  royal  dish,  iii.  20427 

PORT,  see  following: 

PORT-REEVES  (port-greifar),  port-graves,  mayoral  staff,  the 
mayor  and  the  town  authorities,  at  Canterbury  (port  in  O.E. 
meaning  not  only  a  sea-port,  but  also  generally  a  town, 
city,  cf.  port-geat,  a  city  gate),  ii.  i721 — the  '  Port-folk '  (ii. 
i723)  and  '  Ports  '  (iii.  37624)  is  a  rendering  of  resp.  '  Portum  ' 
and  '  Parta '  in  the  original.  In  either  case,  what  is  referred 
to  can  be  nothing  else  but  the  '  town's-people '  (of  Canterbury 
and  Pulwyke).  Obviously  '  Partar,'  '  Parta,'  ■  Portum '  is  a 
northern  popular  misgrowth  out  of  the  word  '  port,'  the  sound 
of  the  o  of  which  the  viking's  ear  caught  from  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  mouth  as  #,  and  the  meaning  of  which  he  associated 
with  town  in  general.  From  it  he  formed  Partar  =  '  townees ' 
on  his  own  account. 

POTS  (grytur,  sing,  gryta),  full  of  boiling  pitch  and  wood-butter 
( =  oil),  used  in  war  by  Mediterranean  pirates,  iii.  3723.4 

PRIDE-HOSEN,  see  Hose,  under  Dress. 

PRIEST  (prestr,  O.E.  preost),  also  called  learned  men  (lser^ir 
menn),  i.  258,3  and  teachers  (kennimenn),  ii.  2o833 — first 
called  into  Norway  by  Hakon  the  Good,  i.  i6423.24 — three 
such  slain  by  the  Thrandheimers,  Hakon's  most  determined 
opponents,   i7o26.29  —  given   by   Harald    Gormson   to    Earl 


pri — ree]  Index  III  409 

Hakon  for  the  purpose  of  converting  the  Norwegians ;  whom 
Hakon,  however,  when  out  of  sight,  unshipped  and  drove 
ashore,  i.  258^  14.17 — first  priests  at  Lesjar,  ii.  199.^,  in  Loar 
and  Vagi,  2024.5,  with  Gudbrand  a-Dales,  2o833  and  in  Val- 
dres,  2  3410 — K.  Olaf's  court  chaplain  baptizes  his  son  Mag- 
nus without  leave,  235.30-2369 — a  priest  from  Iceland  so  poor 
a  clerk  that  he  knew  not  how,  without  help,  to  baptize  a 
child,  2  8o15.31 

PRISON  (dyflissa),  in  Constantinople,  described,  iii.  7312  20.2S 

PRIVY-PLACE  (sta^r),  i.  2^  (salerni)  standing  on  posts, 
access  to,  by  steps,  ii.  127^  i2812 

PROCESSION  (processia),  on  Ascension  day  round  a  church 
at  high  mass,  ii.  1315 

PSALTER  (psalterium),  sung  by  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  while 
being  tormented,  iii.  3679.10 

PTARMIGAN  (rjiipa),  iii.  20731 

PURSE  (sjoftr),  money-bag;  Thrand-o-Gate's  three  purses  of 
bad,  indifferent,  and  good  silver,  ii.  3o633-3o822 

QUERN  (kvern),  a  hand-mill  rigged  up  so  high  that  the  grinder 
had  to  stand  working  at  it,  iii.  37 3^ 

QUERN-BITER,  see  Weapons,  offensive,  Sword,  in  fine. 

QUERN- STONE  (kvernsteinn),  i.e.,  the  upper  stone  of  a  hand- 
mill,  the  '  eye '  (auga)  of  which  is  the  hole  through  which  the 
corn  is  dropped,  i.  i4i1G 

RAFTS  (vi'Sir),  with  clothes  and  costly  things  thrown  over- 
board in  order  to  baffle  an  enemy's  pursuit,  iii.  ioo4.24 

RANSOM  (utlausn),  of  captive  women,  iii.  961.11 — Earl  Mad- 
dad  ransoms  himself  from  captivity  with  K.  Eystein  Harald- 
son  by  three  marks  of  gold,  3752.3 

RAVEN  (Hrafn),  a  pet  horse  of  K.  Adils,  i.  5o.25 — another 
Raven  (horse),  begotten  of  the  former,  sent  by  K.  Adils  as  a 
gift  to  K.  Godguest  of  Halogaland,  i.  5Oo0.28 

RAVENS  (two,  i.e.,  Huginn  and  Muninn),  Odin's  intelligence 
department,  i.  i822.24  2  5823.27 

REED-BANDS  (reyr-bond),  "rendered  '  shaft-binding,'  i.  37i8.9 
the  band  or  thong  whereby  an  arrow  or  a  spear-point  were 
tied  to  the  shaft,  iii.  483,^  (up  to  within  living  memory  the 
same  term  was  used  in  Iceland  for  the  leather  thong  by 
which  the  scythe  was  tied  to  the  scythe-handle,  the  term 
'  leband  '  being  the  more  prevalent  in  some  places). 


4 1  o  Index  III  [ree — rep 

REED-WAND  (reyr-teinn),  given  into  the  hand  of  K.  Harald 
Hardredy  by  K.  Magnus  the  Good  as  an  emblem  of  the  kingly 
dominion  of  one  half  of  Norway,  which  he  conferred  on  his 
uncle  in  1045 — (an  ancient  custom  already  on  record  in  the 
first  Lay  of  Helgi,  slayer  of  Hunding,  v.  7,  and  most  probably 
underlying  the  episode  of  the  angelica  stalk,  q.v.,  in  Olaf 
Tryggvison's  saga),  iii.  8328-843 

REEVE  (greifi),  king's  reeves  (konungs  greifar),  must  mean 
any  executive  official  who  by  royal  command  carries  out  the 
summary  judgment,  '  hasty-passed  doom  '  (flaums  fellid6mr), 
which  Sigvat  condemns;  this  foreign  word  got  into  Sigvat's 
poetical  vocabulary  when  dealing  with  the  Port-reeves  of 
Canterbury,  q.v.;  it  had  no  existence  in  the  constitutional 
terminology  of  Norway  at  the  time  (1038),  but  serves  the 
poet's  purpose  as  a  sort  of  kenning  (perhaps  even  a  euphe- 
mistic one  for  the  universally  detested  '  King's  Thralls ' 
(konungs  Jjrselar),  iii.  2427 

REINDEER-SKINS  (hreni-stokur,  pi.  of  hrein-*staka,  which, 
though  given  in  the  dictionaries  as  the  normal  form,  seems 
not  to  be  on  record).  What  stokur  really  was  a  technical 
term  for  is  not  certain,  but  it  seems  to  point  specially  to  the 
skin  that  covered  the  shanks  of  the  animal,  the  short-haired 
part,  and  to  include  the  feet  or  hoofs,  for  Thorod  and  his 
men  cut  off  from  the  hreinstokur  the  '  fitjarnar '  (  =  the  hoofs 
with  the  membrane  uniting  them)  and  tied  them  '  turned 
toe-to-heel  under  their  feet;'  it  seems  never  to  mean  'a 
reindeer-cloak,'  ii.  2983.3 — the  whole  statement  relating  to 
this  point  bears  on  the  face  of  it  the  stamp  of  improbability. 

RELIC,  holy  (helgr  d6mr),  ii.  456^  4572s  46oi-2  in-  l6i2-is  3J6-7 

6932-7°i  8724  io56  1Q522  257is  is  20  27812  3°926  3365  337i3 
RELIGIOUS  LIBERTY,  the  guiding  principle  of  the  govern- 
ment of  Earls  Eric  and  Svein,  the  sons  of  Hakon,  i.  37825.2s 

U-   7322-24 

RENT  (leiga),  iii.  2oo5 

RENTMASTER  (gjaldkeri),  a  royal  official,  one  of  whose 
duties  it  was  to  call  in,  in  towns  and  cities,  rents  and  other 
dues  belonging  to  the  king;  of  such  there  are  mentioned 
Nicolas  Beard,  in  Biorgvin,  iii.  4^24;  Gunnar,  in  Nidoyce, 
44i15;  Thorbiorn,  in  Biorgvin,  45728 

REPTILES   (illyrmi,  coll.  n.  =  mass  of  evil  worms),  worms, 


ric — sai]  Lid  ex  III  411 

adders,  frogs,  and  paddocks  tumbling  out  of  queen  Snow- 
fair's  body  when  moved,  after  lying  in  state  for  three  years, 
i.  1200,5.0*  cf.  ii.  2o81 

RICK  (hjalmr  =  helm),  corn-rick,  ii.  2i7x 

RIDE-REEK  (j6reykr,  lit.  horse-reek),  masses  of  dust  whirled 
up  by  a  cavalcade  of  riders,  iii.  24<d12 

RIDERS  (riddarar),  see  Cavalry. 

RING  (hringr),  an  arm-ring  (cf.  finger-ring),  see  Gifts. 

RING-WORM  (reforma-s6tt),  the  plague  of  which  K.  Magnus 
Haraldson  died,  iii.  i88912 

RING-TYR  (bauga-Tyr),  the  'Tyr'  =  god  of  rings,  dispenser 
of  wealth,  a  bounteous  lord,  i.  io.o14 

RIVET  (hugro,  the  guard  of  the  hilt) ;  for :  '  had  been  a-driving 
home  the  rivet  of  his  sword-hilt,'  read :  '  had  been  rivetting 
the  guard  of  his  sword,'  i.  28os 

ROAD-MAKING  in  Sweden  through  impenetrable  woods, 
leading  to  opening  up  of  wide  lands  for  human  habitation, 
due  to  K.  Road-Onund,  i.  542v-30 

ROGATION-DAYS  (gang-dagar),  iii.  467^    See  Ganging  Days. 

ROME-ROAD  (Riima-vegr),  the  road  to  Rome  taken  by  pil- 
grims, pilgrimage  to  Rome,  ii.  4053 

ROOD  (roSa,  ro^ukross),  a  cross,  i.  331^ — made  of  silver  to 
the  stature  of  Guthorm  Ketilson,  a  votive  offering  by  him  to 
the  church  of  St.  Olaf  in  Nidoyce,  iii.  1 2422.2S 

ROOST  (straumr),   current    in  narrow  and  shallow   seas,  ii. 

^426  .      ... 

RULE  (regla),  Lat.  regula,  the  life  of  a  regular,  monastic  life, 

ii.  381.,,,.,! 
RUNES  (riinar),  magic  mysteries  of  Odin's  invention,  1.  i826 
RYTNING  (rytningr,  otherwise  rytingr),  a  variety  of  the  kind 

of  knives  which  went  by  the  name  of  sax-knives  (sax-knifr), 

ii.  1310-  or  sax,  it)21 
SABLE(S)  (savali),  the  skin  of  the  Mustek  zibellina,  ii.  26o7 

29r19 

SAFE  CONDUCT  (grrS  seld),  given  to  travellers  in  Russia 

(1034),  ii.  467l0  ,.,,., 

SAILS  (segl),  of  Icelandic  manufacture?  suitable  gifts  to  a  king, 

i>-  244it  .  ,  , 

SAINT  SEPULCHRE  (grof  Drottins),  at  Jerusalem,  richly  en- 
dowed by  K.  Har.  Hardredy,  iii.  7i3v.32 


4 1 2  Index  III  [san — sca 

SAND  (sandr),  dead  bodies  lying  in  sand  rot  more  slowly  than 
when  buried  in  mould,  ii.  4563.5 

SAUR  (Saurr),  a  dog,  imposed  as  king  on  the  Thrandheim 
people  by  K.  Eystein  the  Evil,  i.  i6i21-i62n  ii.  276!., 
(Perhaps  the  source  of  the  legend,  which  is  localized  by  various 
writers  at  various  places  in  the  north,  is  to  be  sought  in  the 
name  of  the  king  having  been  Hundi,  or  in  his  by-name 
having  been  'hinn  Rakki,'  the  Rank,  Doughty,  Stalworth; 
rakki,  as  a  noun,  meaning  '  cur '). 

SAX-KNIFE,  see  Rytning. 

SCALES  (skalir,  sing,  skal),  for  weighing  precious  metals,  iii. 

8526 

SCARCITY  (hallaeri),  see  Seasons. 

SCAT  (skattr),  1.  tax,  impost,  public  revenue.  Skattr  (cf.  O.E. 
sceatt)  seems  to  have  been  the  name  of  that '  penny '  which  by 
way  of  poll-tax  all  Swedes  paid  to  Odin  for  defending  the  land 
and  discharging  the  duties  connected  with  the  national  festi- 
vals of  blood-offering,  although  Snorri  understood  the  term 
as  meaning  only  tax,  i.  2o20.23 — under  Niord  and  Frey  this  tax 
goes  by  the  term  of  '  free  scat,'  skattgjafir,  which  seems  to 
point  to  the  fact  that  it  was  not  imposed  by  right  of  conquest, 
but  was  a  pre-Odinic  fiscal  arrangement  left  undisturbed  by 
him  on  coming  to  power  in  Sweden,  22n  24  2310  20.22 — Eric's 
sons,  fugitives  from  Norway,  seize  for  their  support  the  scat 
(revenue)  of  Orkney  and  Shetland,  i5524 — Hakon  the  Good 
takes  scat  from  (seizes  the  state  revenue  of,  or  incorporates)  the 
Danish  possessions  in  the  Wick,  i5823.25 — K.  Har.  Hardredy 
and  Earl  Hakon  Ivarson's  contest  about  the  scat  (revenues) 
from  the  latter's  earldom  in  the  Uplands  (1062-65),  iii.  i46I2.14 
16-24  i49ijw8  I5322-I55s — 2-  Tribute:  promised  by  K.  Egil  of 
Sweden  to  K.  Frodi  of  Denmark,  but  paid  only  in  good  gifts, 
i-  45 15-16  23-25— Halfdan  Whiteleg  took  scat  of  Vermland  in 
Sweden  (which  his  father  had  colonized)  after  the  death  of 
his  brother  Ingiald,  i.  6813.14 — K.  Eric  of  Sweden,  in  Har. 
Hairfair's  early  reign  (ab.  870),  appropriates  the  scat  both  of 
Vermland  and  the  Wick  up  to  Swinesound,  io512.10 — Estho- 
nians  pay  scat  to  K.  Waldemar  of  Holmgarth,  2  2925.26 — 
Jamtlanders  of  their  own  accord  pay  scat  (tribute)  to  Hakon 
the  Good,  i6314  but  after  his  day  yield  scat  to  Sweden,  sternly 
repelling  Olaf  the  Holy's  claims,  until  K.  Eystein  Magnusson's 


sca — sco]  Index  III  413 

diplomacy  united  Jamtland  again  with  Norway,  ii.  8oUH7  276- 
277  iii.  26305-264.3., — Har.  Hairfair  remits  to  Earl  Turf- Einar 
the  scat  of  Orkney,  in  consideration  of  the  dominion  being 
so  exposed  to  viking  raids,  ii.  i6822.23 — Earl  Hakon's  relation 
to  K.  Harald  Gormson  in  respect  of  scat  payment  of  Norway, 
i.  2403^241 5  2  5310.15  269,3 — Thorgaut  Harelip's  way  of  making 
Olaf  the  Holy  pay  scat  to  Sweden  on  account,  ii.  82.21-832 — 
Olaf  the  Holy's  negotiations  with  the  Icelanders,  and  with  the 
Faroese,  anent  paying  scat  to  Norway,   2427-246^  17-24714 

•24-32  24930'25O3  3°23o-3i°i 

SCAT-GIFTS  (skatt-gjafir),  1.  voluntary  tax  payments  by  the 
subjects  of  a  state  to  the  ruler,  cf.  scat,  1. — 2.  tribute  de- 
manded of  a  country  that  either  was  required  to  become,  or 
actually  became  a  dependency,  ii.  24331 — more  precisely  de- 
fined as  fixed  dues,  akve'Snar  skuldir,  and  liege  duty  (lyS- 
skylda),  244^  u  2  7517  iii.  264,, 

SCAT-LAND  (skattland),  tributary  possession  acquired  by 
conquest,  such  as  the  portion  of  Norway  that  fell  to  Olaf  the 
Swede's  lot  after  the  fall  of  Olaf  Tryggvison,  ii.  6624 — and 
the  dominions  won  by  weapons  by  Olaf's  predecessors  on 
the  southern  and  eastern  littoral  of  the  Baltic,  i2i14 

SCAT-PENNY  (skattpenningr),  each  'bonder'  in  Iceland  gave 
Eyvind  for  song-reward  a  scat-penny  '  which  would  cut 
white,'  i.e.,  which,  when  cut,  showed  so  white  that  it  proved 
to  be,  at  least,  approximately,  of  pure,  not  of  'grey,'  i.e., 
impure,  silver,  and  this  penny  was  worth  '  three  silver  pen- 
nies.' The  statement  seems  suspicious.  Scat-penny  must  be 
the  penny  that  goes  current  as  medium  of  payment  of  public 
revenues  into  a  king's  treasury.  What  scat-pennies  were  cur- 
rent in  Iceland  were  of  Norwegian  importation,  and  in  the 
days  of  Gunnhild's  sons  the  currency  of  Norway  was  already 
debased.  We  suspect  the  original  statement  here  was  to  this 
effect:  the  Icelanders  gave  each  'a  silver  penny  which  would 
cut  white,  and  was  worth  three  scat  pennies'  of  currency  de- 
based by  two-thirds,  i.  2io5.8 

SCISSORS  (a  pair  of)  (sox,  pi.  of  sax,  not  used  in  this  sense  in 
the  sing.),  for  hair-cutting,  etc.,  ii.  456,;  cf.  the  'shearing'  of 
Har.  Hairfair's  hair,  i.  ii75.9 

SCOT-HOUSE  (skytningr,  also  transl.  guild-house,  iii.  2864and 
'guild,'  38617),  originally   skytningr  was  a  club  of  persons 


41 4  Index  III  [scr — sea 

meeting  at  arranged  intervals  for  convivial  purposes,  each 
member  contributing  his  own  share  of  the  food  and  drink  he 
consumed  on  the  occasion;  in  course  of  time  skytningr  seems 
chiefly  to  have  signified  the  house  where  such  convivialities 
took  place.  On  Snorri's  authority  these  club-  or  scot-houses 
arose  in  the  reign  of  Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  19224.25 
SCREE  (skrrSa),  the  confused  masses  of  broken  rocks  and 
boulders  left  in  and  along  the  track  of  an  earth-slip,  ii.  36333 

3645  25  3655 

SCURVY  RIME  (nrSvisa,  libellous  insult),  according  to  an  old, 
but,  on  the  face  of  it,  improbable  Icelandic  tradition,  a  law 
was  passed  (at  the  Althing)  providing  that  a  ni^visa  for  every 
nose  in  the  country  should  be  made  on  the  Dane-king 
Harald  Gormson  for  inhuman  treatment  of  a  crew  of  Iceland 
shipwrecked  in  Denmark,  i.  2683.19 

SEA-KINGS  (saekonungar),  a  title  given  to  such  as  ruled  over 
armed  hosts  on  board  ship  but  had  no  lands,  i.  5i30-32 — they 
also  bore  the  title  of  kings  of  hosts  or  war-kings  (rather: 
warrior-kings,  her-konungar),  because  all  their  subjects  were 
men-at-arms,  15322  n-  325i — a  rea^  sea-king  was  he  who 
'never  slept  under  a  sooty  rooftree  nor  ever  drank  in  a 
hearth-ingle,'  5132.34 — Olaf  the  Holy  becomes  a  sea-king  at 
once  when  at  the  age  of  twelve  he  embarks  on  a  viking 
cruise,  for  king-born  vikings  were  styled  kings  at  once  going 
on  board  their  viking  ship,  although  they  had  no  territory  to 
rule  over,  ii.  53.5  9.13  iii4-16 — Sea  kings  of  note:  Haki  and 
Hagbard,  i.  383.7 — Jorund  and  Eric,  sons  of  K.  Yngvi  of 
Sweden,  394.6 — Solvi,  who  fought  a  battle  of  eleven  days' 
duration  with  the  Swedes,  5215.17 — Hiorvard  the  Ylfing, 
59i3-28 — besides  many  who  figure  as  elements  in  the  ken- 
nings  of  the  poets. 

SEAL  (innsigli),  mentioned  in  connection  with  Queen  Emma's 
forged  letters  appointing  her  son  Hordaknut  King  of 
Denmark,  ii.  317^  19-3i94 

SEAL  (selr),  foca,  a  valued  catch,  ii.  2923 

SEALS'-AVENGER  (selshefnir),  the  name  given  by  Thorir 
Hound  to  the  spear  wherewith  Asmund  Grankelson  had 
slain  his  (Thorir's)  nephew,  Asbiorn  Sealsbane  (ii.  239^), 
and  wherewith,  at  his  sister  Sigrid's  egging-on  (239^-2404), 
Thorir  in  turn  slew  Karli,  K.  Olaf's  trading  partner,  ii.  26521 


SEA — shi]  Index  III  415 

SEALSKIN  BAGS  (sel-belgir),  drawn  over  the  head  of  wizards 
to  intercept  the  sight  of  the  evil  eye,  i.  i3oI5.ls 

SEA-MILE  (vika  sjavar),  iii.  3Qo31 

SEASONS  (see  also  'Year'),  their  plenty  or  scarcity  attributed 
to  the  ruler  or  rulers  of  the  land  affected.  Lords  of  good 
seasons:  Niord,  i.  22n.15— Frey,  2  225.26— Freya,  2410.n— 
Fiolnir,  24n— Domar,  3o9.10— Road-Onund,  5415.17— Halfdan 
the  Black,"  8623.31— Hakon  the  Good,  i6olt,..23  i74n.13— Earl 
Hakon  Sigurdson,  24228.34— Olaf  the  Quiet,  iii.  19630.34— 
Lords  of  bad  seasons  :  Domald,  i.  2910.25  — Olaf  Treeshaver, 
66^0  cf.  673.7 — Eric's  sons,  2oils.23  2i8n.22 — Earl  Turf-Einar, 
ii_  i7_i.20 — Olaf  the  Holy:  dearth  of  corn  in  Thrandheim  and 
all  Norway  north  thereof  for  three  seasons  (1021-23),  i.  i9225.29 

Cf.  2IO29.30   2II4.n   2I512.13  25.07  30-2I63  30-32  _        _ 

SEAT  (saeti),  indicating  by  its  elevation  the  degree  of  dignity 
enjoyed  by  the  occupant:  Harald  Hairfair  occupying  the 
highest  seat,  assigns  to  his  sons,  when  he  had  made  them  kings, 
a  seat  below  his  own,  and  below  theirs  again  were  ranged 
the  seats  of  his  earls,  i.  i323.5 — K.  Knut  deposes  his  son 
(who  by  fraud  had  been  made  king  by  his  mother),  from  the 
king's  to  his  '  former,'  lower  seat,  ii.  3195.7  and  leads  him  into 
it  again,  on  conferring  on  him  the  kingdom  of  Denmark, 

349i6i9   Cf-  High-seat. 

SERVANT  OF  THE  KING  (J>j6nustuma3r  konungs),  whom 
if  a  man  slay,  the  slayer  shall,  if  he  be  pardoned  and  it  be 
the  king's  pleasure,  undertake  the  discharge  of  the  service 
formerly  performed  by  the  slain  (quoted  by  Olaf  the  Holy  as 
a  'law  of  the  land'),  ii.  22933-2303 

SERVING-MAN     (fjdnustumaSr),    personal     attendant,     ii. 

12326  27   I2615  22   ^  "  ,       , 

SHANKS  (fitjar,  s.  fit,  which  means  the  'web-foot'  of  an 
aquatic  bird),  does  hardly  convey  the  sense  of  the  text :  the 
hoofs  of  a  reindeer  joined  by  the  skin  attached  to  them,  ii. 

2983-4  cf-  1M7 
SHAG-CLOAK,  see  Dress.    Cloak. 

SHEARING  HAIR  (skera  har),  i.  ii77  cf.  ii.  456^  45724  ni- 

872;V2G    l63ll  .  „,.,-, 

SHIELD-BURGH  (skjaldborg),  a  circle  of  shielded  men  within 
which  a  commander  with  his  staff  takes  up  his  position  in 
battle:  K.  Hugleik's  in  the  battle  of  Fyrismead,  i.  3820 — K. 


416  Index  III  [shi 

Hakon's  and  Eric's  sons'  in  the  battle  of  Stord,  i9ol7 — Earl 
Eric's  on  board  his  ship  in  the  battle  of  Svold,  370,, — Eilif 
the  Gautlander's,  ii.  784 — Olaf  the  Holy's  at  Sticklestead, 
4o410  42915.16 — K.  Magnus  the  Good's  on  board  his  ship  in 
the  battle  of  Riveroyce,  iii.  4i7.8 — K.  Har.  Hardredy's  in  the 
battle  of  Stamford  bridge,  i7616— K.  Magnus  Barefoot's  in 
his  last  fight  in  Ireland,  24i20 — K.  Hakon  Shoulderbroad's 
on  board  ship  in  the  battle  of  the  Elf,  40925 

SHILLING  (skillingr),  French,  twelve  thousand  gold-shillings 
paid  to  Olaf  the  Holy  by  the  citizens  of  Gunvaldsburgh  in 
ransom  for  their  earl,  ii.  1922-29 

SHIPS.  This  rich  subject  seems  most  conveniently  dealt  with 
under  the  following  heads : 

1.  General  references  to, 

2.  Proper  names  of, 

3.  Appellatives  for, 

4.  Things  connected  with,  ships. 
1.  General  References  to  : 

Though  it  was  the  custom  to  beach  ships  in  autumn  and 
make  them  snug  in  their  shed  (ra'Satil  hlunns,  biia  urn)  Har- 
ald  Hairfair  set  the  example  of  remaining  all  winter  long  out 
in  his  warships,  i.  io831  io93.10  cf.  ii.  32432-325i — srnPs  for 
sepulchral  use :  after  the  battle  of  Fraedisberg,  955,  K. 
Hakon  the  Good  buried  Egil  Woolsark  and  his  fallen 
companions  in  a  ship,  and  let  heap  over  them  stones  and 
earth,  and  let  set  up  yet  more  ships  and  bring  them  to  the 
field  of  battle,  '  and  one  may  see  the  mounds  to-day  south 
of  Fraedisberg,'  i.  i8o5.n — the  Wendland-built  ships  of 
the  Jomsburg  vikings  were  bigger  and  higher  of  bulwark 
than  those  of  Norway,  i.  2793.4 — the  same  was  clearly 
the  case  with,  at  least,  some  of  the  English  ships  in  K. 
Knut's  fleet  (cf.  Dragon),  ii.  3i5i3-3l6s  3227-i7— number 
of  on  various  occasions:  Eric  Blood-axe  at  the  age  of 
twelve  was  fitted  out  for  viking  cruise  by  his  father  with 
five  longships,  i.  i2821.23(at  the  same  age  Olaf  the  Holy 
took  command  of  a  war-ship  and  went  on  a  viking  cruise, 
ii,  5  ) — Harald  Greycloak,  invited  to  a  friendly  feast  by 
his  foster-father,  Harald  Gormson,  goes  to  Denmark  with 
three  longships,  is  treacherously  slain  by  Gold  Harald 
commanding  nine  longships,  who,  in  turn,  is  set  upon  and 


SHl] 


Index  III  4 1 7 


slain  by  Earl  Hakon  in  command  of  twelve  ships  '  all  great ' 
{i.e.,  longships),  i.  23724-24on — Harald  Gormson  invades 
Norway  with  600,  i.e.,  720  ships,  i.  24o15.16 — the  Jomsburg 
vikings  invade  Norway  with  sixty  ships,  i.  2  7418.21;  Earl 
Hakon  and  his  sons  oppose  them  with  a  fleet  of  180;  Earl 
Hakon  opposing  with  sixty  ships  Sigvaldi's  division  of  twenty; 
Eric,  with  sixty,  meetingBuitheThickand  Sigurd  his  brother 
with  twenty,  and  Svein  Hakonson  with  sixty  encountering 
Vagn  Akison  with  twenty,  2  7628-2  7722 — Sigvaldi  takes  to 
flight  with  five-and-thirty  ships,  leaving  five-and-twenty //<?/-.$■- 
de-combatbehm&,  27919.2t;  2&3n — Olaf  Tryggvison sailed  with 
sixty  longships  to  ^rendland,  1000,  358^— K.  Magnus  the 
Good  invades  Denmark  with  seventy  longships,  iii.  2  697- 
2  710 — Harald  Hardredy  wars  in  Denmark  with  sixty  big 
ships,  9915.16 — he  fights  the  battle  of  Lofafirth  with  150 
(=  170)  against  K.  Svein  Wolfson  with  300  (  =  360)  ships, 
I32i2-i3  17 — Harald  musters  for  his  expedition  to  England 
well-nigh  2oo(  =  240)  ships,  besides  transports  and  smaller 
craft,  i6320.21 — K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  goes  with  fully 
300  (  =  360)  ships  to  convert  the  Smallands  of  Sweden  to 
Christianity,  285^ — Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  raids  Norway 
with  seven  ships,  35512-i3J  and  afterwards  he  and  Magnus 
the  Blind  invade  Norway  with  thirty  ships,  and  are  met 
in  battle  by  Ks.  Ingi  and  Sigurd,  sons  of  Harald,  with 
twenty  ships  and  all  big,  the  Danes  deserting  Sigurd  Slemb. 
with  eighteen  ships,  361^-3623 — Kings  Ingi  and  Eystein 
Haraldsons  meet  in  battle,  the  former  with  eighty,  the  latter 
with  five-and-forty  ships,  3935.9 — dragging  ships  over  land: 
Harald  Hardredy  drags  his  '  light  ships  '  across  the  isthmus 
separating  the  Limbfirth  from  the  North  Sea,  iii.  i2816.20 — 
he  has  his  fleet  of  '  light  skiffs '  flitted  round  the  water- 
falls in  the  Elf  up  into  the  Vener- Water,  i4921.25 — K. 
Magnus  Barefoot  has  a  '  cutter '  (skuta)  dragged  across  the 
Tarbet  of  Cantire,  2255  10.12 — K.  Eystein  has  his  ships 
dragged  over  ice  the  distance  of  two  sea-miles,  39o.„,-39ii 
— scuttling:  Thorir  Hound  rifles  Karli's  ship  and  fills  it 
with  stones  and  scuttles  it,  ii.  2  6618.22 — Sigurd  Slembi- 
Deacon  scuttles  his  own  ship  before  abandoning  it,  when 
pursued  by  K.  Ingi,  iii.  35618.20 — Erling  Askew  overcomes 
a  dromond  in  the  Mediterranean  by  cutting  rifts  in  it  below 

VI.  EE 


41 8  Index  III  [shi 

as  well  as  above  watermark,  3726.8 — disguised:  Harek  of 
Thiotta  takes  down  the  mast  and  the  vane  and  covers  his 
ship  with  grey  hangings  above  the  water,  in  order  to  elude 
the  vigilance  of  his  enemies,  ii.  33127.31 — ships  soaked 
(sollin)  and  waterlogged  (sett),  ii.  355n.12  *"•  iooi7j  ni§h" 
byrnied  (habrynju^),  iii.  2ois;  stained  above  water-line 
(steind  fyrir  ofan  sse),  31521-22 

2.  Proper  Names  of: 

Beech-board  (BaekisirS),  the  flagship  of  K.  Ingi  in  the 
battle  of  the  Elf,  1159,  iii.  4ii24;  falls  into  the  hands  of 
Hakon  Shoulderbroad  after  the  fall  of  K.  Ingi,  1161,  and 
in  turn,  at  the  fall  of  Hakon,  into  the  power  of  Erling 

Askew,  44°24-27  443i4  445m  30-31  4464 

Bison  (Visundr),  built  by  order  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  1026, 
'the  greatest  of  all  ships;'  on  the  prow  'there  was  a 
bison-head  dight  in  gold,'  ii.  3io20.23  29-32  3XI24  I*  na(^ 
more  than  thirty  rowing  benches,  and  on  the  prow  thereof 
was  the  head  of  a  bison,  but  aft  there  was  a  tail,  and  the 
head,  the  tail,  and  both  beaks  were  all  laid  with  gold,  iii. 
27io-ig — abandoned  by  Olaf  at  Walldale  in  Todarfirth, 
1029,  363H.21  37225.27 — seized  by  Earl  Hakon  Ericson  and 
the  command  of  it  given  to  Jokul,  3732-6 — was  tne  flag- 
ship  of  K.  Magnus  the  Good  in  his  first  expedition  to 
Denmark,  1042,  iii.  2  710.12 

Beardling  (Bar^i),  see  Ironbeak. 

Carl's-head  (KarlhofSi),  'on  the  stem  whereof  was  carven 
the  head  of  a  king,  and  that  he  (K.  Olaf)  had  carved,' 
Olaf  the  Holy's  flagship  in  the  battle  off  Nesiar,  1016,  ii. 

5525-27  587  r     , 

Crane  (Trani),  a  longship  of  thirty  benches  of  the  type 
called  'snekkja';  high  in  the  stem  but  not  broad  of  beam, 
built  by  order  of  K.  Olaf  Tryggvison,  998,  i.  32222.29 
— served  as  flagship  to  the  king  in  his  expedition  to  Ha- 
logaland,  999,  32823.253325 — inferior  in  size  and  goodliness 
to  Raud  the  Strong's  Dragon  (Short  Worm),  333ie-i9 — 
commanded  by  Thorkel  Dydril  and  Jostein,  K.  Olaf's 
uncles,  in  his  expedition  to  Wendland  and  the  battle  of 
Svold,  3543.4  364^  3655  3666  36820  3755 

Dragpay  (Draglaun),  '  a  great  longship-buss,'  commanded  by 
Eindrid  the  Young  in  Hakon  Shoulderbroad's  fleet,  iii.  4457-9 


SHl] 


Index  III  419 


Ironbeak  (Jarnbar^i),  the  ship  that  Earl  Eric  Hakonson 
commanded  in   the   battle  of  Svold,  description    of  (cf. 

Beak,  Ships  4),  i.  36409-33  36832  369?r  37°2  3734 — called 
Beardling  (BarSi),  370, 
Long-Worm  (Ormr  hinn  langi),  built  by  order  of  K.  Olaf 
Tryggvison,  on  the  pattern  of  the  Halogaland  dragon-ship 
which  K.  Olaf  seized  from  Raud  the  Strong,  the  Short- 
Worm,  i.  3433-344o-3o — it  was  148  feet  long,  of  '  grass-lying  ' 
(graslsegr),  i.e.,  straight,  keel,  34339 — it  was  a  Dragon, 
the  head  and  crooked  tail  of  it  were  done  over  with  gold, 
'  the  bulwarks  were  as  high  as  in  a  ship  built  for  sailing 
the  main  sea,'  and  it  had  thirty-and-four  benches  of  oars, 
34426  31-3452— description  of  the  building  of  it,  3433-34425— 
the  slips  whereon  it  was  built  were  '  still  left  for  a  token  ' 
in  Snorri's  day  (or,  at  least,  in  the  days  of  the  informants 
of  Odd  Snorrison,  ab.  11 80),  3437.8 — this  was  K.  Olaf's 
flagship  in  his  expedition  to  Wendland  and  the  battle 
of  Svold,  1000,  and  no  one  older  than  sixty  or  younger 
than  twenty  (except  Einar  Thambarskelfir,  who  was  but 
eighteen,  35321-23)  was  admitted  on  board  it,  352]3.19 
363r3642i    3667-11    24-25  3678-io   19-21    368ls.o3   36924-25   30-.31 

37°12-20    29-32     37X3-4    3723-4    22-30    373l3-26    3743-14    32"3752       m 

the  prow  (stafn)  was  the  king's  standard-bearer  with  his 
company:  next  aft  of  their  station  came  the  forecastle  in 
the  prow  (rausn  a  soxum):  aft  immediately  thereof  was 
the  mainhold  (krappanim):  aft  thereof  again  the  forehold 
(fyrirrum)  immediately  in  front  of  the  poop  (lypting), 
35227"353-29  (on  tne  position  of  what  we  call  mainhold,  see 
that  word,  Ships  4) — after  the  victory  of  Svold  the  Long 
Worm  passed  as  war-trophy  into  Earl  Eric's  Hakonson's 
hands,  364.26.28  37710-is  It  served  as  pattern  of  war-galleys 
built  by  Har.  Hardredy,  iii.  1 295.7  and  K.  Eystein  Mag- 
nusson,  283,3    Cf.  Adder. 

Reindeer  (Hreinn),  'of  two-and-twenty  benches,  of  all  ships 
the  swiftest,'  iii.  35813.14 

Short- Worm  (Ormr  hinn  Skammi),  '  a  mighty  Dragon,  the 
head  all  done  with  gold,  a  ship  of  thirty  benches  by  tale, 
and  great  of  hull  withal  for  her  length';  of  Halogaland 
build,  and  belonging  to  Raud  the  Strong,  i.  32  924.20 — when 
Raud  hoisted  sail  on  this  dragon,  he  had — as  '  ever '  was 


420  Index  III  [shi 

the  case  with  him — '  wind  at  will  whithersoever  he  would 
sail,  which  thing  came  from  his  wizardry.'   This  remark- 
able statement  obviously  discloses  the  fact  that,  in  the  art 
of  navigation,  the  Halogalanders  were  far  ahead  of  the 
more  southerly  Norwegians,  ab.  a.d.  iooo,  33o2.5 — Return- 
ing to  the  subject  of  this  striking  object  of  naval  art,  Snorri 
adds  to  the  description  of  it  that  this  was  'a  far  greater 
and  goodlier  ship  than  the  king's  flagship,  "the  Crane,"  and 
that  the  stern  of  it  terminated  in  "  a  crook  fashioned  as  the 
tail  of  a  dragon ;  but  either  side  the  neck  and  all  the  stem 
were  overlaid  with  gold."   The  king  called  it  "  the  Worm, 
because  when  the  sail  was  aloft,  then  should  that  be  as 
the  wings  of  the  dragon."  The  fairest  of  all  Norway  was  that 
ship,'  3331S.26   This  was  the  type  from  which  the  family  of 
noted  dragons  in  Norway  was  descended  (see  Dragon).    It 
bore  the  name  of  '  the  Worm  '  simply  until  the  Long-Worm 
was  built,  when  for  the  sake  of  distinction  it  was  called  the 
'  Short- Worm,'  33303  3443„ — commanded  in  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison's  expedition  to  Wendland,  and  at  the  battle  of  Svold, 
by  K.  Olaf 's  half-brother  Thorkel  Nosy,  354x.2  364^  365n.12 
3666  8  36819 
Skidbladnir  (Skf3-bla?>nir),  a  mythical  ship  belonging  to 
Odin,  so  cunningly  wrought  that,  though  he  could  fare  in 
it  over  mighty  seas,  yet  it  might  be  folded  together  like  a 
very  napkin,  i.  i813.16 — in  Snorri 's  Edda  it  is  described  as 
a  sailing  ship  belonging  exclusively  to  Frey,  S.E.,  i.  i4o1.7 
34221-3441  cf.  also  Grimn.  m.,  v.  43  of  the  Elder  Edda. 
The  actual  meaning  of  the  name  is  uncertain.   Ski^  means 
ordinarily  a  log,  a  splinter,  thin  piece  of  wood,  board; 
blaS :  blade,  folium,  lamina,  palmula,  and  -nir  is  a  termina- 
tion suggestive  of  the  object  signified  by  the  term  it  is 
attached  to  being  prominently  present.    As  the  primitive 
meaning  of  skfS  must  have  been :  the  thing  separated  from 
(something  else),   pared   off,   flaked  from,  and  probably 
could  even  mean  skin,  since  the  derivative  skfSi  (Hamd. 
m.    16),  a   scabbard  for  a  sword,  presumably  was  made 
rather  of  skin  than  any  other  material,  it  is  perhaps  not 
too  rash  to  suggest  that  the  son  of  Niord  might  have  im- 
proved upon   his   father's   monoxyla  (cf.  n6r  below),   by 
inventing  a  hide-covered  boat,  a  coracle. 


SHl] 


Index  III  42 1 


3.  Appellatives  for  Ships. 

Bar^i,  'Beardling,'  'beaked  ship';  the  ship  commanded  by 
Earl  Eric  Hakonson  in  the  battle  of  Svold.  The  prob- 
ability is,  that  barSi  meant  the  '  bearded  one,'  since  Snorri 
adds  that  'a  beard  (skegg)  there  was  on  either  prow. 
The  two  stems  of  this  kind  of  ship  were  provided  with  a 
thick  bar  of  iron  going  right  down  into  the  sea,  i.  36409.33 

Barki,  '  bark '  (O.  Ir.  bare,  Lat.  barca),  a  foreign  term,  as 
Snorri's  own  words  imply :  '  he  let  take  two  ships-boats 
such  as  be  called  barks,'  speaking  of  Sig.  Jerusalem-farer's 
stratagem  against  some  Moorish  pirates  in  Formintera; 
the  name  never  occurs  for  any  kind  of  northern  ship,  iii. 

2539  354s 
Batr,  'boat,'  a  loan-word  from  O.E. :  bat;  a  deckless  craft; 

the  largest  mentioned:  a  sexgeringr,  '  sixoarer,' i.  325^  the 
rest:  smabatr,  small  boat,  ii.  26625;  a  'boat'  which,  pre- 
sumably, was  a  ship's  boat,  iii.  1387;  eptirbatr,  cock-boat, 

355s 
Beit,  n.,  'ship,'  the  real  northern  name  for  'boat,'  but  so  old 

that,  as  a  prose  term,  it  was  gone  out  of  use  when  northern 

literature  first  commenced,  and  in  'Heimskr.'  it  is  only  used 

by  the  poets,  and  in  the  sense  of  '  ship '  generally,  iii.  5920 

777  37532 
BtfzA,  buzu-skip,  langskips-biiza,  'buss,'  'buss-ship,'  'long- 
skip-buss.'  The  term  occurs  for  the  first  time  in  connection 
with  Thorir  Hound's  trading  voyage  to  Biarmland  in  1025 
(226  years  before  the  date  hitherto  given  (1251)  as  that  of 
the  first  appearance  of  this  nautical  term  in  the  North,  cf. 
Icel.-Eng.  Diet,  sub  v.  buza,  Steenstrup,  Normannerne, 
iv.  i6513.14  and  n.  4).  Thorir  'let  launch  a  longship,  a 
huge  buss  (langskip,  biizu  mikla)  which  he  owned  and 
had  let  array.  This  ship  he  manned  with  his  house-carles, 
and  aboard  the  ship  were  wellnigh  eighty  men,'  ii.  259^ 
probably  the  same  ship  to  which  reference  is  made  again. 
3870...30 — tne  next  buss-built  longship  mentioned  is  the 
man-of-war  built  by  K.  Harald  Hardredy  at  Nidoyce  in 
1062:  'that  was  a  buss-ship  (buzu-skip).  This  craft  was 
fashioned  after  the  waxing  of  the  Long-Worm.  .  .  .  There 
was  a  drake-head  forward  and  a  crooked  tail  aft,  and  the 
bows  of  her  were  all  adorned  with  gold.    It  was  of  thirty- 


422  Index  III  [shi 

five  benches  and  big  thereto]  iii.  i293.11 — the  third  and 
last  of  this  craft  mentioned  is  the  Dragpay,  commanded 
by  Eindrid  the  Young  in  a  naval  engagement,  1162,  'a 
great  longship-buss,'  iii.  4459 — This  type  of  ship  seems  to 
be  of  foreign  origin.  In  mediaeval  documents  and  chronicles 
the  word,  as  a  term  for  ship,  is  of  frequent  occurrence, 
figuring  in  various  forms:  buza,  burcia,  bussa,  bucca,  bucia, 
bucea,  butz  (' Jal.  Archeol.  nav.,'  ii.  249m5).  The  foreign 
buza  seems  to  have  been  a  craft  the  distinctive  peculiarity 
of  which  was  breadth  of  beam  and  largeness  of  hull.  And 
it  is  obviously  the  meaning  of  the  northern  storytellers 
that  the  longship-buss  differed  from  the  slender  proportions 
of  the  longship  proper  by  larger  dimensions  of  hull,  greater 
lateral  displacement,  in  fact.  The  early  occurrence  of  this 
kind  of  ship  in  the  North  lends  weight  to  Prof.  Steenstrup's 
remarks  on  the  Butsecarls,  I.e.  164-5. 
Byr^Singr,  'ship  of  burden,'  constructed  for  carrying  cargo. 
The  name  is  by  some  scholars  taken  to  be  derived  from 
byrtSr,  burthen,  but,  without  doubt,  wrongly.  ByrS-  in 
byrSingr  is  clearly  related  to  borS,  board,  cf.  M.L.G.  bord- 
inge,  bordinc,  and  the  real  meaning  of  byrSingr  must  be 
a  craft  of  considerable  free-board.  An  interesting  illustra- 
tion of  the  sense  of  byrSingr  is  found  in  P.  Vidalin's  '  Sky- 
ringar  yfir  fornyrSi  ....  J6nsbokar  '  (explanation  of  old 
terms  in  the  law-code  called  J6nsb6k,  pp.  446-7) :  '  What 
byriSingr  means  is  well  known,  for  still  to  this  day  the  men 
of  the  Westfirths  make  use  of  them,  when  they  have  to 
fetch  (drift)  wood  across  the  Icefirth-Deep  from  the  Strands. 
These  byrSingar  derive  their  name  from  the  fact  that  board- 
ing is  fitted  to  the  gunwale  all  round  the  ship,  and  is  both 
nailed  and  tied  (to  the  gunwale),  the  interstices  being 
caulked  so  as  to  be  water-proof.  Thereby  the  boat  is  ren- 
dered much  deeper  and  is  loaded  so  that  as  high  as,  or 
even  higher  than,  the  gunwale  it  is  beneath  the  water-line, 
but  the  board  intended  to  meet  the  waves  is  all  made  of 
the  wood  of  the  new  boarding.'  This  method  of  increas- 
ing the  draught  of  cargo  boats  in  Iceland  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  may  have  been  an  old  tradition  hailing 
originally  from  Norway,  though  we  are  left  without  positive 
proof  of  the  fact.    The  ordinary  sense  of  the  term  is,  as 


SHl] 


Index  III  423 


given  above  :  a  ship  of  burden,  ii.  5o16 — that  these  boats 
were,  sometimes,  at  least,  of  very  considerable  size  we 
learn  from  the  description  of  Asbiorn  Seal's-bane's  byrS- 
ingr :  '  A  ship  sea-worthy  for  the  main,  as  for  its  growth 
(haffaeranda  skip  at  vexti),  and  there  went  with  it  a  sail 
striped  with  a  bend '  (segl  stafat  me^  vendi),  showing  that 
a  byrSingr  was  a  sailing  as  well  as  a  rowing  boat,  2i63.s — 
again  this  same  boat  is  described  as  of  painted  bows  (hlyr- 
birt)  and  stained  with  white  stone  (paint)  and  red,  2  38.28.31 
— Thoralf  of   Dimon   and  Thrand   o'   Gate's   byrgingar 
were  ocean-going  ships,  sailing  over  to  Norway  with  crews 
of  ten  or  twelve  each,  26g19.21  270;  lT — this  kind  of  boat 
was  also  used  as  a  transport,  or  '  victualling  ship  of  burden  ' 
(vista-byrSingr),  i.  35%  hi.  468^ 
Dreki,  '  dragon,'  '  drake '  (Gr.  cpcucwv,  Lat.  draco),  seemingly 
a  foreign  word,  though  the  thing  it  indicates :  a  war  vessel 
with  a  dragon's  head  fore  and  tail  aft,  seems  to  be  purely 
Scandinavian,  primarily  confined  to  Norway,  if  not  indeed 
exclusively  to   Halogaland.    The  real  meaning  of  dreki 
seems  to  have  been  a  flying  dragon,  as  we  learn  from  Snorri's 
own  account  of  the  Halogaland  dragon  seized  by  Olaf 
Tryggvison  from  Raud  the  Strong :  '  That  ship  the  King 
called  the  Worm,  because  when  the  sail  was  aloft  then 
should  that  be  as  the  wings  of  the  dragon,'  i.  33303-25 
There  seems  to  be  no  evidence  on  record  to  show  that 
this  kind  of  war  vessels  existed  anywhere  out  of  the  North. 
The  earliest  mention  of  a  dragon  ship  in  the  North  refers 
to  a.d.  868,  when  Harald  Hairfair  caused  to  be  built  at 
Nidoyce  his  dragon  galley,  which  Snorri  describes  as  '  great 
and  arrayed  in  the  seemliest  wise,'  on  the  authority  of 
Harald's  own  court  poet,  Hornklofi,  i.  9825,27  9925  Strangely 
enough  this  stately  kind  of  flagship  for  a  king,  in  spite  of 
the  fashion  set  by  the  great  conqueror,  comes,  after  868, 
in  for  no  mention  for  a  space  of  1 30  years ;  that  is  to  say, 
not  till    Olaf  Tryggvison   secures   the   above-mentioned 
Halogaland  dragon,  998,  from  which  his  war-dragon,  the 
Long- Worm,  was  directly  copied.    The  next  dragon  men- 
tioned is  that  of  K.  Knut  the  Mighty,  his  flagship  during 
the  expedition  to  Norway,  in  1028.    The  size  of  the  ship 
was  a  marvel  to  the  Scandinavians,  as  it  'told  up  sixty 


424  Index  III  [shi 

benches '  (sextogr  at  rumatali),  or  six-and-twenty  oars 
aside  more  than  the  Long-Worm,  the  biggest  ship  the 
North  had  seen  as  yet ;  on  it  were  '  heads  gold-bedight ' 
(hofirS  gullbiiin),  and  '  the  sails  were  banded  of  blue 
and  red  and  green '  (segl  stofu?  me?  bla  ok  rau'Su  ok 
grsenu) ;  it  was  '  all  stained  above  the  waterline  and  all 
the  array  of  it  was  of  the  bravest,'  ii.  3i516.23 — another 
dragon,  of  forty  benches,  but  otherwise  ornamented  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  king's,  was  commanded  in  this  ex- 
pedition by  Earl  Hakon  Ericson,  3i518.23 — the  big  dragon 
was  '  not  easily  turned  with  oars,'  but  '  being  as  high  of 
bulwark  as  might  be  a  castle,'  it  was  a  very  difficult  one  to 
engage  with  such  ships  as  the  Scandinavians  had  at  their 
disposal,  32  2v.l7 — there  is  nothing  to  show  how  this  type 
of  warship  came  to  be  built  in  England,  but  the  probability 
is  that  the  pattern  of  the  Long-Worm  came  to  be  copied 
even  by  the  Danes  after  the  battle  Of  Svold ;  at  any  rate, 
it  would  seem  that  they  had  a  fleet  of  dragons  with  gilt 
dragon-heads  in  1049,  when  they  nearly  surprised  K.  Har. 
Hardredy  under  Leesey,  iii.  ioo7.n — at  the  same  time  K. 
Harald's  own  flagship  is  called  a  'drake'  (  =  dragon),  100 
20.21 — but  the  next  dragon-ship  of  special  note  recorded  is 
the  so-called  buss-ship  which  K.  Harald  caused  to  be  built 
at  Nidoyce  in  the  course  of  the  winter  of  1061-62  ;  it  was, 
as  for  length,  built  on  the  pattern  of  the  Long-Worm, 
being  larger  by  one  bench.  There  was  a  drake-head  for- 
ward and  a  crooked  tail  aft,  and  the  bows  (svirarnir)  were  all 
adorned  with  gold;  all  outfit:  sail,  running  tackle,  anchors, 
cables,  were  of  the  best  quality,  i2Q3.14  27  cf.  130^3  133^ 
u  As  for  the  variation  of  the  Long- Worm  pattern  brought 
about  by  the  'buss'  type,  see  Biiza  above.  Upwards  of, 
probably,  fifty  years  after  the  building  of  this  buss-dragon 
the  Long- Worm  type  was  revived  once  more  by  K.  Eystein 
Magnusson,  who  let  construct  at  Nidoyce  'a  mickle  ship, 
made  both  as  to  size  and  fashion  after  that  of  the  L.-W.  ■ 
there  was  a  dragon's  head  afore,  and  a  crook  aft,  and  either 
done  with  gold  ;  it  was  'mickle  of  board,'  but  stem  and 
stern  were  deemed  somewhat  less  than  had  borne  the  best, 
2 S320-27  This  dragon-ship  was  still  doing  war  service  in 
1 157  as  flagship  of  K.  Eystein  Haraldson,  and  must  then, 


SHl] 


Index  III  425 


even  supposing  it  was  built  in  the  last  year  of  Eystein 
the  elder's  reign,  1122,  have  been  five-and-thirty  years  old, 
the  only  ship  mentioned  in  'Heimskr.'  besides  Erling 
Skialgson's  skerS  that  throws  a  light  upon  the  length  of 
life  of  the  ancient  longships,  39310-i2  394g-i2  10-20 
Dr6mundr,  'dromond'  (Gr.  cpu/iur,  Lat.  dromon),  'a  cur- 
rendo  dicitur,'  Isid.  Or.,  1.  xix.  It  is  mentioned  only  in 
connection  with  the  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem  which  Earl 
Erling  Askew  and  Earl  Rognvald  of  Orkney  made,  1152, 
and  is  described  as  of  great  size  and  high  free-board,  which 
agrees  with  what  from  many  sources  is  known  of  the 
dromonds  of  the  Mediterranean  in  the  twelfth  century,  hi. 

37129-37222 
Eik,   '  oak,'  originally  a  technical  term  for  a  monoxylous 

craft  of  oak,  but  gone,  in  the  saga  period,  into  an  appel- 
lative for  ship  in  general,  and  used  only  in  poetry,  ii.  3322r 
35623  iii.  2  79 

Eikja  (O.Sw.  ekia,  O.Dan,  ege),  'oakie,'a  monoxylous  craft, 
made  of  a  hollowed-out  trunk  of  a  tree  (originally  of  oak, 
the  invention  of  this  kind  of  canoe  being  primitively  due 
to  people  who  lived  in  oak-growing  lands),  occurs  only  in 
the  compound  term  eikju-karfi,  'an  oak  dug-out,'  a  cranky 
ferry  across  a  river,  where  karn  seems  only  to  serve  the 
purpose  of  indicating  that  the  craft  was  of  a  wretched 
quality,  ii.  i45I3.22    Cf.  Karfi. 

Ferja,  'ferry,'  but  in  the  sense  of  boat  serving  for  trans- 
port of  persons  and  goods  on  coastal  waters;  almost  syn- 
onymous with  '  ships  of  burden,'  cf.  '  ships  of  burden  and 
other  ferries,' iii.  46814.15 — mostjjfrequently  this  kind  of  open 
vessel  is  called  rd'Srar-ferja,  rd'Sr-ferja,  '  row-boat,'  '  rowing- 
boat,'  'row-ferry,'  or  r6^rar-skip,    'row-boat,'  i.   2i9l7  ii. 

io727  2938—  'big  rowing-boats,' 35413-i4—rowing  fenT  with 
a  deck  of  some  sort,  4483 
Flaust,  'ship,'  'long-ship,"'  so  ancient  a  term  for  ship  as 
to  be  gone  entirely  out  of  technical  use  when  Scandinavian 
literature  begins,  only  employed  by  the  poets  as  a  general 
term  for  ship,  appears  to  be  related  to  fley  (cf.  fljota-flaut), 

"•  64  3°3  3323i  "I-  835  IOIis 

Fley,  'ship,'  cf.  Gr.  nXoloy,  just  as  antiquated  a  term  for 

a  ship  as  flaust,  and  only  used  in  poetry,  i.  1345 


426  Index  III  [shi 

Galei^J,  f.  'galley,'  in  the  sense  of  war-galley,  first  mentioned 
as  the  name  of  the  ships  manned  by  Vasrings  (Varangians) 
in  Constantinople;  the  word  finds  its  way  to  the  north 
with  K.  Harald  Sigurdson  and  his  following  returning 
from  Constantinople,  1042-44;  Harald  himself  had  been 
in  command  of,  at  least,  a  squadron  of  the  Greek  fleet,  and 
as  one  class  of  the  Greek  men  of  war  at  the  time  went 
under  the  name  of  rk  ycXdvcia,  galeiS  must  be  the  north- 
ern imitation  of  that  Greek  term  rather  than  of  ya\ia, 
Lat.  galea,  iii.  5929  7432  75x — in  Sigurd  the  Jerusalem- 
farer's  time  the  name  comes  up  again  for  pirate  ships  in 
Spanish  waters,  2  5o15  18  25 

Hafskip  (lit.  'ocean  ship'),  'ship  of  burden,'  a  term  only 
given  to  ocean-going  merchantmen  irrespective  of  any  char- 
acteristics of  type,  i.  2o818 

Herskip,  or  simply  skip  in  the  same  sense,  'warship,'  'ship,' 
a  general  term  not  only  for  actual  men  of  war  but  also  for 
any  ship  that  at  any  given  time  might  happen  to  be  doing 
war  service,  met  with  on  almost  every  page. 

Hleypi-skuta,  letti-skip,  letti-skiita,  '  skiff,' '  light  skiff,'  'light 
craft,'  apparently  synonymous  terms  for  light  auxiliary  craft 
employed  in  naval  warfare  and  otherwise;  uncertain  whether 
they  differed  as  to  shape  and  construction;  the  hleypi- 
skiita  was  evidently  built  for  speed  (hleypi-  from  hleypa,  to 
let  run,  causative  from  hlaupa,  to  run),  and  probably  was  a 
kind  of  dispatch-boat.  How  light  some  of  this  craft  must 
have  been  may  be  gathered  from  the  statement  that  Harald 
Hardredy  had  '  light  skiffs  .  .  .  drawn  off  the  water,  where 
waterfalls  were  in  the  way,  and  flitted  the  craft  into  Vener- 
Water,'  which  means  that  these  boats  were  drawn  up  the 
steep  mountain  rise  over  which  the  Gotaelf  tumbles  in  huge 
falls  out  of  the  lake,  iii.  i4921.25cf.  i.  27426  32720  iii.  4o6ls 

Karfi,  '  a  keel  of  burden,'  was  in  the  eleventh  century  a  ship 
of  very  considerable  size;  the  one  mentioned  in  our  text  is 
stated  to  have  been  a  craft  of  fifteen  benches,  ii.  648.9  but 
seems  to  have  had  a  carrying  capacity  for  forty  persons, 
io77.13  ioSj.o — but  in  earlier  times  a  karfi  must  have  been 
a  craft  of  very  small  dimensions  and  of  a  rickety  sort,  seeing 
that  from  it  the  language  was  enriched  by  a  term,  karfa- 
f6tr,  'tub-ship's  foot,'  ii.  i28ir  for  the  legs  of  one  who  from 


SHl] 


Index  III  427 


drunkenness  was  unable  to  keep  his  balance.  In  this  earlier 
sense  the  word  is  used  in  the  term  eikju-karfi,  from  eikja, 
q.v.,  and  karn,  which  seems  only  to  serve  the  purpose  of 
emphasizing  the  crankiness  of  the  eikja,  'an  oak  dug- 
out,' and  defined  by  Sigvat  as  the  worst  of  tubs,  ii. 
I45i3-23 — apparently  karri  and  karfa,  f.,  a  basket  of  wicker- 
work,  are  etymologically  identical.  Karfa,  however,  does 
not  occur  in  the  old  literature,  the  term  for  basket 
being  vandlaupr,  wicker-box  (while  laupr  by  itself  means 
a  wooden  box  of  boards  or  laths).  But  the  stem  karf- 
being  old,  the  derivative  karfa,  a  wicker-basket,  must  pre- 
sumably have  preceded  karfi,  which  originally,  we  take 
it,  meant  wicker-boat,  with  skin  for  covering,  even  if  we 
take  it  to  be  a  foreign  loan-word  from  '  carabus :  parva 
scapha  ex  vimine  facta,  quae  contecta  crudo  corio,  genus 
navigii  praebet,'  Isidorus,  Orig.  xix.  c.  1,  §  26.  According 
to  Gregory  the  Great,  this  kind  of  boat  did  service  as  a 
cock-boat  in  his  own  lifetime  in  Sicily:  'Nauta  .  .  .  post 
navem  carabum  regebat,  ruptoque  fune  cum  eodem  carabo 
quern  regebat  inter  undarum  cumulos  repente  disparuit,' 
Dial,  c.  57.  As  late  as  a.d.  892  the  craft  was  known  in 
Ireland:  '  Occulte  de  Hibernia  fugerunt  carabumque  qui 
duobus  tantum  coriis  et  dimidio  factus  erat  intraverunt,' 
Flor.  of  Worcester.  That  this  wicker-boat  covered  with 
hides  sewed  together  was  used  very  early  and  for  a  long 
time  in  the  north  would  seem  to  be  proved  by  the  fact 
that  when,  with  a  metallic  age,  nails  came  in,  wherewith  in 
the  form  of  rivets  or  otherwise  the  strakes  of  a  boat  over- 
lapping each  other  were  made  tight  and  leak-proof,  the 
northern  idiom  had  no  word  collectively  signifying  nails 
so  used,  but  saumr,  q.v. 
Kaupskip,  'cheaping  ship,'  '  chapman,' almost  synonymous 
with  '  haf-skip,'  being  an  ocean-going  craft,  broader  of 
beam  and  higher  of  free-board  than  the  longships,  which 
were  built  for  service  on  the  island -sheltered  waters  of 
Norway  and  of  the  quiet  sea  of  the  Baltic.  Like  all  ocean- 
going ships,  these  were  essentially  sailing  ships,  i.  2  5425 

"•  2924  x57i7  24  30  42327  iii-  299i3  ?i 
Knorr   (O.E.   cnear,    O.Dan,   knar),    'round  ship,'   'keel,' 

'good  ship,'  'ship;'  a  big  ocean-going  craft  mainly  used 


428  Index  III  [shi 

for  trading  purposes,  and  called  by  Ottar  the  Swart '  kaup- 
skip,'  cheaping  ship,  ii.  2924  cf.  5i16.20  5234 — this  was  the 
ship  used  in  warfare  over  the  high  seas,  and  as  a  warship 
it  is  mostly  referred  to:  knerrir  Hornklofi  calls  the  battle- 
ships that  were  engaged  in  the  great  sea-fight  of  Hafursfirth, 
with  'grim  gaping  heads,  and  prow-plates  fair  graven' 
(meS  ginundum  hofSum  ok  grofnum  tinglum),  i.  ii2H2 
cf.  Thord  Kolbeinson's  Eric's  Drapa,  274,3 — presumably 
the  '  big  ships '  in  which  K.  Ragnfrod  sailed  from  Ork- 
ney to  Norway,  i.  24320  were  knerrir — Olaf  the  Holy 
leaves  his  warships  behind  going  from  England  to  Nor- 
way and  takes  to  two  knerrir  for  the  over-sea  voyage, 
having  two  hundred  and  sixty,  i.e.  three  hundred  men  on 
board,  or,  presumably,  one  hundred  and  fifty  on  each,  ii. 
29n-i3  21 — Stein  Herdisson  witnesses  that  Olaf  the  Quiet 
bestowed  on  favourites  'stained'  knerrir,  iii.  20 19  This 
seems  both  as  to  name  and  reality  to  have  been  a  genuine 
northern  craft.  The  O.Dan,  form  of  the  name  is  the  most 
primitive.  The  derivation  is  uncertain.  In  Latin  writers 
the  form  went  into  canardus :  '  Quatuor  naves  magnae  quas 
canardos  vocant  de  Norwegia  in  Angliam  appulsae  sunt, 
quibus  Rodbertus  et  Morellus  nepos  eius  occurrerunt  et 
pacificis  mercatoribus  quicquid  habebant  violenter  abstu- 
lerunt,'  Ordericus  Vitalis,  'Hist,  eccl.,'  viii.  c.  23,  ad  an. 
1095.  Here  we  have  the  facts  attested  to  that  canardus  is  a 
Latinized  form  of  the  name  by  which  the  Norwegians  called 
the  ship;  that  it  was  a  large  ship  and  a  merchant-man.  If 
the  syncope  kn  stands  for  kan,  one  might  be  inclined  to 
connect  the  root  of  the  name  with  Germ,  kahn,  Du.  kaan, 
boat;  Icel.  kane,  a  small  wooden  vessel  for  liquid  food; 
Norw.  kane,  a  small  swan-shaped  vessel  swimming  in  a 
beer  bowl,  and  serving  the  drinkers  as  a  ladle.  Curiously 
enough,  although  Icel.  kani(e)  does  not  seem  to  occur  in 
the  sense  of  boat,  yet  ksna,  which  seems  to  stand  in 
formal  relation  to  kani,  as  does  hcena  to  hani,  is  a  general 
term  in  the  living  language  for  a  dinghy. 

Lagnar-skip  (logn,  gen.  lagnar,  net,  herring-net),  a  net-boat 
for  herring  fishery,  ii.  35413 

Langskip,  'long-ship,'  always  a  term  signifying  man-of-war, 
with  the  exclusion  of  the  knorr,  for  the  reason  that  the 


SHl] 


Index  III  429 


longships  were  not  really  built  for  voyages  across  the  high 
seas,  at  least  not  in  early  times.  Hence  the  notice  concern- 
ing the  construction  of  the  Long- Worm,  that  her  '  bulwarks 
were  as  high  as  in  a  ship  built  for  sailing  the  main  sea,'  i. 
345:  which,  in  addition  to  the  unprecedented  length, 
constituted  her  the  largest  longship  ever  built  up  to  that 
time  in  the  north.  To  the  longship  group  were  counted, 
therefore,  generally  the  skeiS  and  the  snekkja,  both  of 
which  might  be  dragons,  probably  also  the  largest  kind  of 
the  skiitur,  and  some,  at  least,  of  the  vikingaskips  which  did 
service  in  the  Baltic  and  the  coastal  waters  of  the  Scandi- 
navian countries.  The  late  langskips-buza  was  in  a  special 
sense  a  longship,  being  a  sort  of  cross-breed  between  the 
longship  proper,  from  which  it  took  the  length,  and  the 
Mediterranean  Buza,  from  which  it  got  breadth  of  beam 
and  enlarged  proportions  of  hull.  The  longships  were 
essentially  built  for  propulsion  by  means  of  oars,  while  the 
knerrir  were  properly  sailing  craft  and  had,  when  ready  for 
sea,  to  wait  in  harbour  for  the  favourable  wind  before  a 
start  could  be  made.  During  the  whole  process  of  the 
colonization  of  Iceland  not  a  single  longship  is  recorded  to 
have  visited  the  land.  The  standing  phrase  in  the  Nor- 
wegian laws  for  undertaking  a  naval  expedition  for  warlike 
purposes  is :  rda  lei^angr,  to  row  the  expedition,  never  to 
'sail  it,'  cf.  i.  2387  where  the  translation  should  read:  'row 
the  expedition'  (roa  lei^angrinn).  When  Olaf  the  Holy 
decides  to  leave  England  for  Norway,  he  leaves  his  long- 
ships  behind,  and  makes  the  journey  in  the  ocean-going 
knerrir,  ii.  2910.13  When  in  the  early  Sagas  of  Heimskringla, 
i.  123.  i2427  i2821.23  20.2S  2qo19=2954  Snorri  talks  of 
ocean-going  longships,  he  probably  had  in  his  mind  ships 
of  a  different  type  to  the  ordinary  longships,  or  he  made 
a  mistake,  which  he  corrected  after  he  had  described  the 
Long-Worm  as  the  first  longship  with  '  bulwarks  as  high  as 
in  a  ship  built  for  sailing  the  main  sea,'  for  he  never  again 
refers  to  longships  as  ocean-going,  except  those  which, 
threading  their  course  along  the  coasts,  made  their  way  to 
the  Mediterranean,  iii.  2375  37i22  after  the  broad  buss- 
type  of  longship  had  been  introduced.  The  smallest  long- 
ships  mentioned,  without  their  type  being  indicated,  are 


43°  Index  III  [shi 

those  of  twenty  benches  or  forty  oars,  i.  3546  ii.  4815.17 
22i3  34714.15  (cf.  331^4  23-3i)3  and  twenty-five  benches  or 
fifty  oars,  iii.  35828.24  Frequent  mention  is  made  of  long- 
ships,  besides  the  ocean-going  ones  already  referred  to, 
without  any  reference  to  size  or  type,  i.  io324  23725.26  238j 
3.4  24730:248!  29o23  29510  35813— ii.  2910  494.5  8225.26  i7614 
453n— iu-  2630  273  io810.n  n6l7  i2325.26  2o6l7  2ii5  299^ 
38614  391!!  4o82  40926  46818  48i2s 

Nokkvi,  '  ship,'  in  Hornklofi's  verse,  seems  to  correspond 
to  '  big  ships '  of  the  prose  text,  i.  99,3  26 — a  very  ancient 
name  for  a  kind  of  ship  the  type  of  which  is  unknown. 
Baldr's  ship,  Hringhorni,  '  of  all  ships  the  greatest,'  is 
called  nokkvi,  S.E.,  i.  1769 — so  is  also  the  boat  of  the  giant 
Ymir,  on  which  he  alone  used  to  go  out  fishing,  ib.  i6813 
— yet  capacious  enough  to  take  two  whales  on  board, 
Hymeskvi^a,  21 — in  the  folk-lore  this  craft  figures  mostly 
as  a  boat  on  board  which  there  is  only  one  solitary  rower, 
and  he  mostly  of  troll  kind  or  giant  kin.  The  word  is 
cognate  with  O.E.  naca,  O.H.G.  nahho,  M.H.G.  nache, 
O.Sax.  nako,  Du.  naak,  all  of  which  seem  to  point  to  a 
small  boat.  Even  in  Harald  Hairfair's  time  nokkvi  had, 
apparently,  lost  its  technical  sense,  and  become  an  appella- 
tive for  ship  in  general. 

N6r,  '  ship,'  occurs  only  in  Noa-tiin  (n6a  gen.  pi.)  (Nois- 
[read  Noa]  town),  i.  i627  2  28 — and,  in  the  dat.,  in  a  kenn- 
ing used  by  Thiodolf :  brand-n6i  =  hearth-fire's  ship  (of  a 
kind  identical  with  arinkjoll,  hearth-keel,  295),  5239  Niord 
dwelt  at  N6a-tdn,  i.e.,  Ships'-town,  a  hostage  among  the 
As-folk,  having  come  from  their  antagonists,  the  Vanir,  and 
brought  with  him  the  naval  culture  of  his  own  people.  Nor 
is  closely  related  to  Gr.  vavc,  Lat.  navis.  To  judge  from 
the  still  living  descendants  of  the  object  which  n6r  once 
signified,  we  are  led  to  infer  that  it  must  have  been  a 
monoxylous  craft.  In  Norway  the  name  still  lives  in  the 
forms  no  and  nu,  signifying  a  mug  hollowed  out  of  a  solid 
piece  of  wood,  while  in  Iceland  it  has  gone  into  n6i,  win., 
a  small  wooden  porringer,  holding  a  portion  of  rye  porridge 
suitable  for  children  of  six  years  and  upwards  (east  of 
Iceland,  ab.  1840). 

R6Srarferja,  see  Ferja. 


SHl] 


Index  III  43 1 


RoSrarskip,  see  Ferja. 

Ro^rar-skuta,  roftr-skiita,  f.,  'rowing  cutter,' as  it  seems, 
different  from  ro^rar-ferja,  'rowing-ferry,'  but  of  what  kind 
of  construction  not  stated,  ii.  4831-491  2247  448lfi 

SkefS,  'bark,'  'cutter,'  'galley,'  'great  keels,'  'keel,' 
'longship,'  'ship,'  'swift  ship,'  'war-ship.'  This  was  the 
largest  of  the  so-called  longships,  and  is  by  far  the  most 
frequently  mentioned.  The  size  of  longships  was  indicated 
bv  the  number  of  rum  =  benches,  occupied  by  the  rowers. 
But  at  what  number  of  oars  aside  one  denomination  of 
longships  ceased,  and  at  what  the  next  began  is  left  some- 
what vague.  The  skuta,  as  a  longship,  seems  to  have  begun 
with  fifteen  oars  aside  and  gone  up  to  twenty;  the  snekkja 
with  twenty  and  gone  up  to  thirty  (the  '  Crane ');  the  skeiS 
with  thirty,  going  up  to  thirty-five,  that  being  the  bench- 
tale  of  Har.  Hardredy's  longship-bus,  which  his  court 
minstrel  Thiodolf  defines  as  a  skeiS.  Among  the  warships 
the  skeiS  is  the  only  one  mentioned  as  '  byrnied '  or  mail 
protected?  hi.  5916  131^  cf.  2oi8 — one  skeiS,  Erling 
Skialgson's  (of  thirty  benches,  i.  3589  but  of  thirty-two, 
ii.  2  5.2.l3),  receives  particular  notice,  from  which  we  gather 
that  Erling  had  been  in  possession  of  it  for,  at  least,  twenty- 
eight  years  when  he  fell,  ii.  31 16  354n  3557  23  356^ 
30  357s  11-12  it  1°  tne  following  further  references  skerS 
is  the  term  underlying  the  various  names  of  the  trans- 
lation :  i.  4oI5  i57l7  27329  274,3  283^  34733  362^  37524 
-ii.   n2  i213  3o31  315  6  s  15  5923  93io  46523— m-  272o  4*4 

482  784  20  79i5  8os  95io  I2932  ^Oig  *3*ig  r47is  After 
1064  the  '  Heimskringla'  makes  no  mention  by  name  of 
this  kind  of  longship.  SkerS  seems  necessarily  related  to 
ski,:S,  which  again  is  radically  connected  with  the  large 
family  of  Indo-Eur.  stems  which  signify  cleav-,  split-,  such 
as  Sansk.  chid,  Gr.  a^i'C-,  Lat.  scind-,  O.E.  skeS-,  scld-, 
Mid.E.  schid-,  Germ,  scheid-.  SkerS  must  therefore 
originally  have  meant  the  craft  built  of  split  wood,  the 
board-built,  strake-built  vessel.  Whether  the  name  was 
chosen  in  order  to  distinguish  it  from  other  craft  not  board- 
built,  but  monoxylous,  is  a  question  to  which,  in  the  absence 
of  all  evidence,  no  distinct  answer  can  be  given.  The  name 
is  purely  northern.    O.E.  scegd  is  a  Scand.  loan-word. 


432  Index  III  [shi 

Skuta,  '  cutter '  (scow,  iii.  468^,  a  craft  much  varying  in  size. 
Besides  the  rowing  skutur,  mentioned  above,  '  small ' 
skiitur  are  referred  to  of  uncertain  size,  ii.  i3o8  iii.  37429 
Then  there  are  those  which  carry  on  board  thirty  men 
without  the  tale  of  benches  being  given,  ii.  i3o6  23710  28719; 
and  again  those,  where  that  indication  is  supplied : 
skuta  with  ten  or  twelve  oars  aside,  consequently  a  ten  or 
twelve  benched  craft,  i.  32  625.26  and  a  fifteen  benched 
skiita,  24820.21  25  Further  references,  i.  i3330  13907  2o82s 
2ii16—  ii.  35413— -iii.  2255  343^  4o618  29  443^  46815 
Especially  interesting  are  the  two  skutur  built  by  Finns  in 
course  of  the  winter,  1138-39,  which  were  sinew-bound, 
with  no  nails  in  them  (varu  sini  bundnar  ok  engi  saumr  i), 
having  withies  for  knees,  and  being  propelled  by  twelve  oars 
aside.  These  cutters  were  so  swift  that  no  ships  might  over- 
take them  on  water,  iii.  35630-35713  As  the  name  indicates 
the  skuta  seems  to  have  been  par  excellence  the  swift-going 
craft  of  the  North.  The  name,  which  is  connected  with  the 
root  skiit-,  shoot,  cf.  skj6ta,  skaut,  is  a  purely  northern  term, 
and  appears  as  loan-word  in  Engl,  skute,  Du.  schuit,  Germ, 
schiite. 

Snekkja,  '  cutter,'  galley,  '  scow,' '  ship,'  distinctly  defined  as 
a  long-ship,  the  largest  mentioned  (the  Crane)  being  of  thirty 
benches,  i.  32  222.29 — others  counted  up  twenty  benches,  ii. 
7921  22i3.4  29325.26 — and  the  smallest  fifteen  benches,  iii. 
468^2 — Five  of  these  ships  carried  between  them  300  men, 
sixty  each,  and  must,  therefore,  probably  have  been  ships  of 
over  twenty  benches,  ii.  i979.12  Further  references,  i.  1 5 7 5  r 

I73i72745— iii- 59i5  I3I6i9  *34ol85i9  2ii6  372x— Asto  the 
origin  and  meaning  of  this  word,  it  is  formally  identical 
with  O.Sw.  sna^ckia,  sniekkia,  O.E.  snacca.  It  occurs 
frequently  in  old  French  writers  under  the  form  of  esnec, 
besides  other  variations.  Jacques  de  Vitry, '  Hist,  orientale,' 
tells  how  '  Daci,  Normanni,  Franci,  Scoti  et  caeterae 
gentes,'  came  forth  '  in  navibus  iocundis  (a  scribe's  mistake 
for  rotundis?)  quae  Necchiae  dicuntur,'  where  Necchiae  is 
a  Frenchman's  way  of  getting  over  the  unpronounceable 
snecchiae,  an  exact  Latin  reproduction  of  snekkja.  As 
these  ships  are  called  rotundae  they  must  presumably  have 
been  of  broader  calibre  and  greater  capacity  of  hull  than 


SHl] 


Index  III 


433 


the  narrow  longships.  It  is  acknowledged  that  snacca  is 
a  late  loan-word  in  O.E.  The  name  must  therefore  be 
northern;  and  its  occurrence  in  the  old  provincial  laws  of 
Sweden  together  with  such  compounds  as  snaskkiu-bonajvr 
(outfit),  and  snaekkiu-bygning  (building),  compounds  un- 
known elsewhere,  would  lead  one  to  the  supposition  that 
this  was  the  Swedish  type  of  warship.  Perhaps  it  is  not 
too  wild  a  suggestion,  that  between  snekkja,  snaekkia  and 
Swed.  snacka,  shell,  cockle,  mussel  shell,  a  word  not  on 
record  in  the  other  Scand.  languages,  there  may  be  an 
ancient  connection. 

It  is  worthy  of  note,  that  the  warships  of  the  Wends,  a 
Slavonic  people,  are  nearly  always  called  snekkjur,  or 
Vindasnekkjur,  '  Wend-cutters,'  as  if  warships  of  this  name 
were  peculiar  to  Wendland.  That  the  Wend-cutters  were 
of  about  the  same  capacity  as  the  middle-sized  snekkja  of 
Norway  is  evidenced  by  the  recorded  fact,  that  when  in 
1 135  the  Wends  sacked  and  burned  the  town  of  Kings' 
Rock,  each  of  their  five  and  a  half  hundred  =  660  snekkjur 
carried  44  (  —  29,040)  men,  besides  two  (=1,320)  horses. 
I  am  not  aware,  however,  that  in  Wendish  specially  or  in 
Slavonic  generally,  there  is  found  a  name  for  ship  from 
which  snekkja  could  be  derived.    Reff.  to  Wend-cutters, 

i-  375i2-3765  iii.  32629.30  3543 

4.  Matters  relating  to  Ships. 

Anchor  (akkeri) :  cast  into  an  enemy's  ships  in  order  to  bring 
the  fighters  within  the  reach  of  blows,  i.  36818.22  ii.  6o27.29 — 
go  to  anchor  (leggjast  um  a.),  263^ — anchors  carefully 
made,  iii.  i2g13 — poet,  kennings  for:  bowed  iron  (bjiigt 
jam),  rod  thick  fashioned  (digr  gaddr),  i3i2123 — anchors 
lashed  to  poles  used  as  an  engine  of  war  to  pull  down  a 
wooden  fortress  fence,  2  287.10 — anchors  used  for  haul- 
ing grounded  ships  afloat,  4i230 — mock  anchors  made  of 
cheese  to  insult  Har.  Hardredy,  iii.  9510.2S 

Bailing  place  (austr-rum),  on  a  man-of-war  there  was  first 
the  stem  where  the  trustiest  company,  the  stem-men,  were 
stationed ;  aft  of  that  station  came  the  forecastle,  and  im- 
mediately aft  of  that  was  the  bailing  place  here  in  question, 

*•   9"20-30 
VI.  FF 


434  Index  III  [shi 

Banner  (merki),  the  king's,  guarded  on  board  a  man-of-war, 
by  the  stem-men  (stafnbuar),  see  Banner,  p.  297. 

Beak,  i  (barS),  seems  to  have  been  that  part  of  the  stem-post 
and  stern-post,  viewed  from  outside,  which  reached  from 
the  waterline  up  to  the  jointure  of  the  gunwales,  i.  36429.33 
Here  the  translation  should  be  amended  :  there  was  a 
beard  on  the  upper  part  of  either  beak,  and  a  thick  bar, 
spong,  of  iron  down  therefrom,  as  broad  as  the  beak,  and 
reaching  all  down  to  the  sea  (waterline).  Snorri,  or  some 
emendator  of  his  work,  seems  to  have  misunderstood  the 
tradition  here.  BarS  means  originally  beard,  and  so  has 
the  part  of  a  ship,  already  defined,  been  called  of  old.  The 
addition :  '  there  was  a  beard  on  the  upper  part,'  etc.,  is 
meaningless,  and  therefore  spurious.  The  original  tradition 
must  have  been  to  this  effect :  Earl  Eric  had  a  wondrously 
big  Beak  (or  Beard) ;  on  either  beak  (or  beard)  of  it  was 
a  thick  iron  bar,  as  broad  as  the  beak  (beard)  itself,  reach- 
ing from  the  upper  part  thereof  down  to  the  sea.  Which, 
of  course,  comes  to  the  same  thing  as  saying :  the  stem- 
post  and  stern-post  from  gunwale  point  to  waterline  were 
lined  outside  with  a  stout  iron  bar  as  broad  as  the  beams 
themselves  forming  either  post. — 2  (sviri),  though  we  have 
translated  sviri  by  beak,  it  is  doubtful  how  far  that  trans- 
lation hits  the  point ;  besides,  a  good  deal  of  uncertainty 
obtains  as  to  what  the  sviri  really  was.  In  M.H.G.  swir 
means  a  pole,  especially  a  pale  driven  into  the  ground  on 
the  sea-shore  for  the  purpose  of  mooring  ships  to  it.  In 
O.E.  sweor,  swer  =  pole,  and  sweora,  swira,  neck.  In  Nor- 
weg. -Icelandic,  outside  the  ship,  sviri  means  generally  neck. 
But  in  the  Eastfirths  of  Iceland  the  term  in  the  plural, 
svirar,  refers,  in  a  technical  manner,  to  the  prominent  mus- 
cular development  that  flanks  either  side  of  the  neck  of 
oxen  or  horses  from  the  shoulders  up  to  the  nape.  Hence, 
sviramikill,  of  a  horse  in  which  this  development  shows  in 
a  marked  manner,  stout-necked.  Hals  =  neck  is  a  term, 
ancient  and  modern  alike,  for  the  whole  forepart  of  a  ship 
from  where  it  perceptibly  narrows  towards  the  stem.  When 
the  figure-head  of  a  ship  was,  as  in  the  case  of  our  refer- 
ence, the  head  of  an  ox  of  the  largest  kind  of  the  bovine 
species,  it  followed,  as  a  matter  of  course,  that  the  flanks 


SHl] 


Index  III  435 


of  the  neck,  hals,  of  such  a  ship  should  be  called  svfrar. 
And  the  most  natural  way  of  interpreting  the  passage  is  to 
translate  svirar  by  flanks  of  the  neck,  or  the  bows :  the 
literal  translation  of  var  hbfu^it  ok  sporSrim  ok  ba/Sir  svi- 
rarnir  alt  gulli  lagt  would  then  be :  was  the  head  and  the 
tail  and  both  flanks  of  the  bows  all  laid  with  gold,  cf.  Bows, 
6.  The  idea  that  svfri  meant  both  tapering  ends  of  a  ship, 
stem  and  stern  alike,  presupposes  that  the  ancients  had  an 
idea  that  a  neck  could  terminate  in  a  tail !  The  interpreta- 
tion that  takes  svirar  for  upright  timbers  on  board  ship  for 
the  purpose  of  winding  cables,  mooring,  etc.,  round  them, 
is,  I  think,  inadmissible.  No  extravagance  could  go  to  the 
senseless  length  of  gilding  such  posts,  ii.  2714.16 — 3,  beaks 
(skeiSar  kylfur) :  these  pieces  of  timber  were  some  uprights, 
perhaps  of  the  kind  called  kevels  by  sailors,  in  or  about 
the  prow  of  a  ship,  round  which  were  cast  the  tengsl,  lash- 
ings, or  cables,  that  held  ships  together  in  a  pitched  battle 
at  sea.  That  these  timbers  were  in  the  prow  is  proved  by 
the  Earl,  in  the  passage  our  reference  deals  with,  calling 
on  the  forecastle-men  (frambyggja)  first  to  cut  the  cables 
and  then  the  kylfur  afterwards,  ii.  6o14  16  19 
Beard  (skegg),  probably  but  a  mistake,  see  Beak  above. 
Bed  (hvila),  on  board  ship,  made  every  day,  iii.  3oo20 
Bench  (sess,  lit.  seat).  In  dealing  with  such  naval  terms  as 
fimtan-sessa,  tvitug-sessa,  meaning  a  craft  with  fifteen  or 
twenty  rowers  seated  aside ;  and  in  the  case  of  a  ship  being 
said  to  be,  e.g.  pritugt  at  riimatali  =  of  thirty  by  the  tale  of 
rooms  =  having  thirty  rowers'  berths,  meaning  again,  having 
accommodation  for  thirty  rowers  seated  a-side,  the  sense 
of  the  narrative  seemed  best  secured  by  '  benches '  or 
'  banks '  in  the  sense  of  thwarts,  for  that  is  what  sess  and 
rum  practically  amount  to.  Hence  the  bench,  in  each  case, 
represents  two  oars.  This  was  a  standard  of  measurement 
by  which  the  size  of  a  ship  could  easily  be  conveyed  to 
the  listeners'  mind,  it  being  generally  understood  that  each 
rower's  'room'  occupied  about  3^  feet.  Ship  of  fifteen 
benches,  i.  24820.21  20;  of  twenty :  3540  "■  25-_>  4315  16  17 
22 13  28331  2843  6.7  14_15  29325.26  31  iG;  of  thirty:  i.  32226.27 
3589;  of  more  than  thirty:  iii.  2713.14  ;  of  two  and  thirty, 
ii.  253.4;  of  four  and  thirty,  i.  34431.32 ;  of  five  and  thirty, 
iii.  i2Q10;  of  forty:  ii.  315^  ;  of  sixty:  ii.  3i517 


436  Index  III  [shi 

Berth,  i  (rekkja),  a  bed  on  board  ship,  iii.  362^ — 2  (rum), 
place,  station  on  board  ship  occupied  by  rowers  and 
fighters  :  to  array  one's  berth  (bua  rum  sitt)  =  get  ready, 
clear  for  action,  iii.  4o2— 3  (lsegi),  ship's  berth  in  harbour. 
Berths  for  ships  seem  to  have  had  an  order  of  rank  similar 
to  that  which  prevailed  in  respect  of  seats  in  the  hall.  The 
king's  berth  was  the  noblest,  and  the  earl's,  when  there 
was  no  king.  How  prized  this  honour  of  berth  was  is  illus- 
trated by  the  contest  of  Earl  Ericjand  Skopti  of  the  Tidings, 
who  had  to  pay  with  his  life  for  occupying  a  berth  which 
Eric  claimed  was  his  by  right  of  birth,  notwithstanding  that 
Skopti  acted  under  the  peremptory  order  of  the  ruler  of 
the  land,  Earl  Hakon,  Eric's  father,  i.  24710-24828— For 
the  covenant  relating  to  king's  berth  between  Magnus  the 
Good  and  Harald  Sigurdson,  Harald's  breach,  and  Mag- 
nus' uncompromising  vindication  of  the  same,  see  King's 
berth,  under  King. 

Board  (to)  (ganga  uppa),  Boarding  (uppganga),the  storming 
of  a  ship  which  took  place  when  the  fore-part  of  it  had 
been  sufficiently  cleared  of  the  bravest  defenders,  i.  37229 

ii-  59e  6o9  35630  , .    ,  u.    ,     ,     ,     ,   . 

Boat-shed,  boat-house,  ship-house,  shipshed,  shed  (naust  = 

n6auist  through  n6uist — n6yst — naust?  cf.  foruista — 
forysta — forusta);  these  terms,  besides  referring  to  boat- 
houses  of  an  ordinary  kind,  where  a  boat,  a  ship  of  burden, 
etc.,  were  made  snug  and  the  outfit  was  kept,  i.  325^  ii. 
io710  270,  16,  also  imply  even  a  ship-building  yard  such  as 
K.  Eystein  Magnusson  built  in  Cheaping  at  a  great  cost, 
and  K.  Eystein  Haraldson  was  charged  with  having  burnt 
down,  iii.  28307-2840  39134-31  392io-n 
Bows,  1  (sox,  pi.  of  sax,  cf.  prow),  the  sox  seem  to  mean  both 
the  railing  of  the  vessel  from  where  it  takes  a  clear  bend 
towards  the  stem,  and  also  the  space  on  board  included 
between  such  part  of  the  railing  on  either  side.  The  real 
meaning  of  sox  is  unknown.  Perhaps  the  term  has  some 
connection  with  the  saxboard  of  English  open  boats,  the 
strake  running  immediately  under  the  gunwale,  iii.  4i21 — 
2  (brandr),  which  would  be  more  literally  translated  stem. 
The  brand,  technically,  was  the  upper  end  of  the  stem-post 
projecting  over  the  gunwale,  corresponding  to,  but  more 


SHl] 


Index  III  437 


elongated  than,  what  is  called  the  'nose '  in  English  boats, 
iii-  59is — 3  (barS),  see  Beak,  i,  iii.  59l8  131^—4  (stafn), 
i.  3661S — 5  (hlyr),  which  means  cheek  and,  in  a  ship,  is 
another  term  for  kinnungr,  from  kinn,  cheek,  and  signifies 
the  flank,  the  bows  exposed  to  the  beating  of  the  waves ;  hh/r 
is  mostly  a  poetical  word,  as  in  ii.  i210  but  hlyrbirtr  '  cheek- 
brightened  =  painted  of  bows,  Snorri  uses  as  a  prosaic  term, 
23830 — ^  (svirar),  see  Beak,  2,  iii.  i2Q9.10 

Bulwarks  (bortS),  i.  2793  2833  34314  370^  372.^  373.,.,  The 
statement  that  the  bulwarks  of  the  Long-Worm  were  as 
high  as  in  a  ship  built  for  sailing  the  main  sea  (sva  varu 
ha  borSin  sem  a  hafskipum)  points  indirectly  to  the  fact 
that  longships,  up  to  the  beginning  of  the  eleventh  century, 
at  any  rate,  were  not  ocean-going  craft,  34433-3452 

Cable,  i  (strengr),  anchor  cable,  ii.  264^  iii.  i2g14;  tackle, 
i3i10 — 2  (tengsl),  lashing  rope,  ii.  6o12;  slip  c.  (let  the  lash- 
ing go,  leggja  ur  tengslum),  i.  248u 

Castle  (kastali),  in  the  prow,  different  from  the  forecastle, 
mentioned  as  a  peculiarity  of  the  so-called  Eastfaring  keels 
which  turn  up  first  in  the  twelfth  century,  cf.  masthead 
castle,  iii.  4O330.31 

Chip  (telgja),  shipbuilding  term  for  the  edge-work  required 
for  strakes  and  scantling,  i.  343u 

Chest  of  the  high-seat  (hasaitiskista),  containing  store  of 
weapons,  swords  in  particular,  required  on  board  a  man- 
of-war  to  supply  the  fighters  with  when  necessary  ;  it  stood 
in  the  forehold  in  front  of  the  commander's  station,  the 
poop  ;  cf.  '  then  went  the  King  down  into  the  forehold 
and  unlocked  the  chest  of  the  high  seat ;  and  took  thence 
many  sharp  swords  and  gave  them  to  his  men,'  i.  37214.1G 
Of  the  same  kind  seems  to  have  been  the  chest  aft  on 
which  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  sat  on  board  a  cutter  (skiita) 
when  Harald  Gilli's  men  were  going  to  kill  him,  iii.  34025 

Clear  a  ship  (hrjd'Sa),  frequently  also  translated  'to  rid,'  by 
boarding  to  cut  down  her  remaining  defenders  or  drive 
them  over-board,  or  into  other  ships,  the  most  thorough 
execution  of  the  operation  being  called  '  clearing  from 
stem  to  stern '  (hrjo^Sa  skip  me?  stofnum),  i.  39,,  4i9  iii3] 
28o29.30  ii.  6,.  iii.  41^  25  42,3  4616  47i  a  J36,s  26  x37i5  3624 <> 
364r> 


438  Index  III  [shi 

Crook  (krokr),  a  carved  decorative  contrivance  attached  to 
the  stern  of  a  dragon  ship,  in  the  form  of  a  twisted  or 
coiled  dragon's  tail,  a  fashion  which  came  in  with  Raud 
the  Strong's  dragon,  captured  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  and  was 
possibly  of  genuine  Halogaland  origin,  i.  33300-21  34432-33 
iii.  i298.9  28324.25 

Deck  (Jnljur),  a  movable  flooring  in  the  ordinary  longships, 
ii.  i9527  347i5-i6  357i — the  sess-Jnljur,  'deck,'  in  Horn- 
klofi's  song,  meaning  literally  seat-decks,  seems  to  signify 
only  the  thwarts,  since  the  slain  men  fell  beneath  them,  i. 
ii223 

Fore-castle  (rausn,  the  same  as  fore-castle  in  the  prow, 
rausn  i  soxum),  a  station  on  board  of  a  man-of-war, 
especially  a  dragon  longship,  extending  from  the  stem 
(stafn)  aft  as  far  as  the  bailing  place  (austr-rum),  q.v.,  i. 
9805 31  io213  3533  (io225  rausn  is  poetically  rendered 
'  Work '). 

Forecastle-men,  forward  fighting-folk,  those  of  the  fore- 
castle (frambyggjar,  stafnbiiar,  stafnsveit),  two  divisions  of 
picked  fighters  that  always  bore  the  chief  brunt  of  fighting 
in  a  naval  engagement.  In  the  translation  these  two  di- 
visions are,  with  one  exception,  comprised  under  the  above 
terms.  '  Stem-men  '  is  the  rendering  for  stafn-biiar,  i.  9828 
and  that  word  underlies  the  translation,  2  8o15  36616  37224 

37318"-  6ou;  iH-  35225  354i9-2o  36220  37218  4453i  446j  while 
frambyggi  underlies  it,  i.  3681S  ii.  6on.12  In  the  'Egil's 
saga'  a  distinction,  which  does  not  as  clearly  show  in 
'  Heimskringla,'  seems  to  be  drawn  between  stem-men  (stafn- 
biiar)  and  '  other  forecastlemen '  (frambyggjar)  ('Eg.  s.,'  ed. 
F.  Jonsson,  p.  2523).  A  similar  distinction  is  perhaps  in- 
tended in  the  following  statement :  '  the  Earl  ....  called 
upon  his  forecastle-men  (frambyggja)  to  cut  the  cables 
....  Then  the  King's  men  caught  the  beaks  of  the  (Earl's) 
ships  with  grapnels  and  thus  held  them  fast.  Then  the 
Earl  cried  out  that  the  forecastle-men  (stafnbuar)  should 
hew  off  the  beaks,'  ii.  6on.16  The  '  beaks '  were  upright 
timbers  at  the  very  stem,  round  which  the  '  cables '  were 
twisted.  That  one  set  of  fighters  about  the  prow  should 
be  called  upon  to  cut  the  cables,  and  another  to  cut  off 
the  uprights,  is  possible.    Distinction  seems  to  be  drawn 


ski]  Index  III  439 

between  stem  and  forecastle,  see  Stem.  A  clear  distinction 
between  frambyggjar  and  stafnbuar  seems  to  have  been 
present  to  the  mind  of  the  author  of  '  Olafs  saga  Trygg- 
vasonar,'  Flat.  i.  4S3ls.o0:  'frambyggjar  on  the  Long  Worm 
and  stafnbuar  on  the  Short  Worm  and  on  the  Crane  brought 
anchors  and  grapnels  on  to  the  ships  of  K.  Svein.'  For 
as  the  King  had  ordered  the  Long  Worm  to  be  laid  for- 
ward by  so  much  as  she  was  longer  than  other  ships,  the 
stems  of  the  Short  Worm  and  the  Crane  would  just  have 
been  in  about  a  line  with  the  forecastle  of  the  Long 
Worm. 
Forehold,  foreroom  (fyrirrum),  on  a  longship,  the  division 
of  the  ship  immediately  in  front  of  the  poop,  cf.  '  Then 
went  the  king  down  (from  the  poop)  into  the  forehold,  i. 

37°0  372n  3747  "•  6o32-33  35723  3587  25  iu-  I38n  2II3i 
299u  3OI5 — on  tne  Long  Worm  this  '  room  '  was  occupied 
by  thirty  fighting-men,  i.  35312  28.29 — here  was  placed  the 
'high-seat  chest,'  the  arsenal  of  the  ship,  37215  iii.  323^.^ 
as  well  as  the  commander's  mess  table  ('  meat-board '),  iii. 
2  7611-15  In  some  cases,  it  would  seem,  there  was  a  station 
called  '  fyrirrum '  in  front  of  the  mast  immediately  behind 
the  stem-station :  '  They  fought  over  the  stems  and  they 
only  might  come  to  hewing  who  were  in  the  prows  (stems) ; 
but  they  who  were  in  the  foreroom  thrust  with  spears  .  .  . 
but  those  aft  of  the  mast  shot  with  bows,'  iii.  40lfr.22 

Fore-room-man  (fyrirrumsma^r),  a  fighter  in  the  forehold, 
iii.  3622V22 

Fore-stem  (framstafn)  =  stem,  q.v. 

Gangway  (bryggja),  better  pier  or  jetty  in  the  following  in- 
stances :  '  Thora  brought  forth  a  child  on  the  cliffs  side 
hard  by  the  gangway  head '  (bryggju-sporSr),  evidently  the 
pier  head,  i.  i38](HS — so  say  the  Swedes  that  there  be  still 
the  stone-heaps  which  Olaf  let  be  made  under  his  gangway- 
ends  (bryggju-sporSa)  =  pier  heads,  ii.  7n — he  let  the  ships 
float  thus  arrayed  by  the  gangways  =  pier  heads,  1953540 — 
his  ships  lay  all  dight  at  the  gangways  =  pier  heads,  iii. 
2O30 — a  movable  sort  of  bridge  between  a  ship  and  the 
landing  stage :' they  cast  off  the  gangways  (brugSu  bryggjum) 
and  thrust  out  from  the  land,'  ii.  265.,-.^ 

Gaping  heads  (ginandi  hofuS),   description   of  the  figure- 


44°  Index  III  [shi 

heads  of  monsters  wherewith  the  prows  of  warships  were 
decorated,  i.  ii2u 

Gear  (rerSi,  biinaSr),  reiSi,  includes  all  the  rigging  out-fit 
of  a  ship  that  was  set  up  and  made  fast  during  a  sea 
voyage,  and  removed  when  the  craft  returned  to  harbour, 
i.  248.2l  32510  ii.  107^  22 16  27o19  2Q328 — when  distinction 
is  drawn  between  rerSi  and  buna'Sr  (lit.  apparel),  the  latter 
term  refers  specially  to  the  tent  and  such  other  items  as 
served  the  purpose  of  show  and  comfort,  45312  cf.  Rigging. 

Grapple  (binda),  of  ships  lashed  together  for  a  pitched 
battle  at  sea,  ii.  56^ — the  same  translation  serving  for 
tengja,  iii.  136s  445*," 

Ground-holding  (grunn-faeri),  the  anchor  with  its  tackle, 

iii-  J3ii5 

Grappling-hooks,  grapplings,  grapnels  (stafn-le,  lit.  stem- 
scythe,  Lat.  falx),  implements  used  in  naval  warfare  for 
the  purpose  of  holding  an  enemy's  vessel  close  within 
striking  distance,  i.  36820  ii.  623  6ou  iii.  4i2l7 

Graven  prow  plates,  see  Prow-plates. 

Gunwale  (bor$),  ii.  593.c 

Half-berth  (half-rymi);  from  what  is  explained  in  respect 
of  rum,  under  '  bench,'  it  follows  that  '  half-berth  '  is  half  a 
thwart  =  one  rower's  seat.  In  a  man-of-war  the  thwarts  or 
rowing  benches  did  not  go  right  across  the  vessel,  which 
would  have  seriously  interfered  with  the  freedom  of  action 
of  the  fighting  force.  The  oarsmen,  therefore,  sat  on 
benches  long  enough  to  serve  as  a  seat  for  them  while 
rowing,  and  these  benches  seem  to  have  been  called  sess- 
Juljur,  seat  boards  (transl.  'decks,'  in  Hornklofi's  song,  i. 
1 1 233).  The  statement  that '  eight  men  there  were  to  a  half- 
berth,'  that  is  to  say,  serving  each  oar,  must  be  a  scribal 
mistake,  there  could  neither  have  been  room  in  a  half- 
berth  for  such  a  number  of  men  nor  accommodation  at 
the  oar  for  their  hands,  i.  353,7 

Halliard,  tackle  (stag),  the  rope  by  which  was  hoisted  the 
yard  to  which  the  square  sail,  the  only  one  in  use  through 
the  '  Heimskringla '  period,  was  attached.  The  yard  itself 
held  firmly  to  the  mast  by  means  of  the  parrel  (rakki). 
The  sail  hoisted  was  said  to  be  topped,  hynt  (wv.  hyna,  -d.-, 
from  hiinn,  mast-top),  while  its  straining  at  the  halliard 


SHl] 


Index  III  441 


was  (poetically)  described  as  wrangling  (ryndu)  with  the 
'tackle,'  ii.  26530  Hi.  2  7s 

Haven  (hofn),  ii.  32isl  iii.  13 13  28210 

Hawsers  (festar),  cables  whereby  ships  were  secured  while 
berthed  in  harbour,  iii.  8gs  cf.  lay  out  hawsers  (tengja  skip), 
tying  ships  together  on  going  into  action,  ii.  32i10 

Head-board,  staying-board  (hofSa-fjol),  a  plank  at  the  back 
of  the  seat  of  the  helmsman  on  board  ship,  against  which 
he  could  steady  himself  in  handling  the  tiller,  i.  37i12-i3 


u.  239n 


Heads  gilt  (gylt  hoftrS),  when  Snorri  does  not  mention  the 
animal  the  carven  image  of  whose  head  was  used  as  figure- 
head on  ships,  he  uses  the  plural,  '  heads,'  for  some  un- 
known reason,  ii.  315.2,,  iii.  2  6i2S.20  (where  the  sing,  should 
be  changed  to  plur.);  otherwise  he  uses  invariably  the  sin- 
gular, dragon's  head,  drake  head,  i.  33320  iii-  I29s  2§3:m 
— head  of  a  bison,  iii.  2  714.16 
Hull  (sirS),  about  the  nearest  Engl,  expression  for  the 
original,  the  literal  sense  of  which  is  suture,  Lat.  sutura, 
the  actual  meaning  being  the  overlapping  verges  of  two 
strakes  made  tightly  secure  by  rivets.  In  an  extended 
sense  siiS  means  the  whole  collection  of  strakes  which  on 
either  side  form  the  covering  of  the  framework  of  the  ship 
=  hull.  Hence  it  also  enters  as  a  second  element  into 
compound  names  of  ships,  in  the  meaning  '  ship,'  cf. 
BsekisiiS,  beech-ship.  SirS  is  a  technical  ship-building 
term  come  down  from  times  prior  to  the  metallic  age,  when 
ships  were  sewed  together,  see  Nails,  ii.  35 2X  iii.  i3ox  14 
Keel  (kjolr),  i.  ii286  343,, 

Knee  (kne),  in  ship-building  the  crooked  pieces  of  timber 
with  two  arms  used  to  connect  the  beams  of  a  ship  with 
her  sides  or  timbers;  in  the  sinew-bound  cutters  built  by 
Finns  for  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  these  knees,  Snorri  states, 
were  made  of  withies  (vftSjar),  which  probably  means  of 
naturally  grown  wood,  perhaps  of  some  kind  of  salix.  The 
earliest  kind  of  knees  known  (Nydam  boat,  from  third  or 
fourth  century)  seem  to  have  been  chosen  from  branches 
forking  at  such  angles  as  suited  the  purpose  of  the  boat 

builder,  iii.  35S-33  .         „-,-.. 

Larboard    (for  lar-   cf.    Dan.   laar-ing,   Swed.   lar-ing  =  old 


44 2  Index  III  [shi 

Scand.  lasr,  '  thigh,'  Eng.  buttock,  of  a  ship ;  bakborSi, 
which  has  given  the  French  babord),  the  board  or  side  at 
the  back  of  the  helmsman,  i.e.  to  the  left  of  him,  the  port 
side  of  a  vessel,  iii.  2i2s  225s 
Lash  together  (tengja,  tengja  saman,  festa  saman),  on 
going  into  action  the  ships  were  lashed  together,  and  thus 
the  fight  came  to  resemble  an  engagement  in  the  field, 
cf.  '  in  those  days  the  wont  was,  when  men  fought  a-ship- 
board,  to  bind  the  ships  together  and  fight  from  the  fore- 
castle' (or,  lit.,  over  the  stems),  i.  io26.8  3667.s  ii.  5620  5719.20 

31-32  iii-  4°5.6  I34n  i375  11  4°732  4°^  41 25  445is 
Lashings  (tengls),  the  cables  wherewith  the  lashing  together 

of  ships  was  effected,  i.  279^  20  369.,  6 
Lay  a-board  a  ship  (sibyrSa),  to  join  broadsides,  i.  279]4.15 
Lee-board  (hle-bor5),  the  side  of  the  ship  opposite  to  that 

exposed  to  the  wind,  iii.  2  729  785 
Mainhold  (krappariim),  the  division  on  a  man-of-war  which 
was  immediately  in  front  of  the  forehold  or  foreroom,  q.v. ; 
it  was  thus  the  second  division  to  the  fore  of  the  poop, 
and  practically  amidships,  or  there  where  the  ship  was 
broadest.  The  first  element  in  the  name  is  generally  sup- 
posed to  be  the  definite  form  of  the  adj.  krappr,  'cramped,' 
'narrow,'  krappa  =  hit  krappa  =  the  narrow.  This  cannot 
be  the  case.  Krappa  can  also  be  gen.  pi.  of  krappi,  '  a 
knee,'  and  seeing  that  the  strongest  knees  were  required 
midships  for  the  strengthening  of  the  hull  which  bore  the 
most  strain,  we  do  not  doubt  the  literal  meaning  of  the 
term  was  the  knees'-room,  the  room  of  the  great  and  strong 
knees.  It  must  be  an  accident  that  krappi  does  not  occur 
by  itself  in  the  old  records,  since  in  the  boat-building 
vocabulary  of  Iceland  it  is  the  exclusive  term  for  '  knee,' 
and  does  not  seem  to  be  a  loan-word,  i.  35321  37 14  18 
Mast  (sigla),  i.  io215  iii.  4o22 — (vrSa):  raise  the  mast  (reisa 
vrSu),  ii.  3236  3327  iii.  44432  4689.10— strike  mast(leggja  ofan 
vi^u),  ii.  33i27  The  real  Scandinavian  names  for  mast, 
sigla,  viSa,  vrSr,  laukr,  vondr,  tre,  all  mean  a  pole,  with 
the  implied  notion  of  pliability.  Mastr,  which  in  modern 
times  has  become  the  exclusive  term,  Dan.  Nor.  Swed. 
mast,  never  occurs  in  the  old  records. 
Mast-head  castle  (hun-kastali),  a  protected  fighting  stand 


SHl] 


Index  III  443 


at  the  top  of  the  mast,  from  which  those  stationed  within 
it  could  hurl  down  upon  an  attacking  enemy  stones  and 
shot.  The  ships  provided  with  these  war  arrangements 
were  the  so-called  East-faring  ships  or  keels  (austrfarar  skip, 
or  knerrir),  which  turn  up  first  by  ab.  1135  (hi.  32720-21.)' 
though  the  castled  craft  is  not  mentioned  till  1159,  hi. 

4°33o  4i°i9       ,     ,       ... 
Moor  (festa),  make  fast,  111.  47212  by  way  of 

Moorings  (festar):  cast  off  m.  (sla  festum),  ii.  263^;  cut, 
hew  m.  (hoggva  festar,  tengsl),  ii.  322,5  iii.  4O710 

Nails,  rivets  (saumr),  the  word  saumr,  used  in  connection 
with  ships,  means  really  seam,  but  in  the  sense  of  sewing 
material.  The  term  carries  with  it  the  history  of  ship- 
building from  a  bygone  age,  when  it  was  really  the  custom 
to  sew  together  the  hides  that  formed  the  outer  covering 
of  the  frame  of  craft  built  in  coracle  fashion,  cf.  Karfi.  When 
the  metallic  age,  with  manufactured  nails,  came  in,  the  water- 
tight covering  of  a  boat's  frame-work  changed,  in  course 
of  time,  from  one  of  skin  to  one  of  wood,  and  the  boat- 
builders  had  no  name  for  the  new  article  by  means  of  which 
they  now  riveted  the  board  strakes,  except  that  which  they 
had  been  in  the  habit  of  giving  to  the  sinews'  thread  by 
means  of  which  they  had  been  used  to  sew  together  the  old 
skin-covering.  The  term  saumr  is  not  only  used  for  nails 
employed  in  ship-building,  but  is  a  common  commercial 
name,  not  only  in  Icelandic  but  in  Danish  (som)  and  partly 
also  Swedish  (som)  to  this  day,  which  shows  how  entirely 
the  ship-building  interest  of  old  must  have  absorbed  the 
nail  production  for  a  long  time  after  the  invention  of  the 

article,  i.  34312  iii.  356so  33 
Oar  (ar),  the  oar  was  mainly  the  propulsive  contrivance  on 
board  war-ships  and  their  build — slenderness  and  lowness 
of  free-board — was  altogether  determined  on  the  principle 
of  their  being  rowing  ships.  The  service  of  the  sail  was  of 
a  secondary  importance.  Hence  the  standing  expression, 
roa  lerSangr,  to  row  an  expedition,  never  to  'sail '  it  (cf.  i. 
2387),  i.  i5627  ii.  63  9  195,7  3ii24  32210  iii.  ioo1(,  130^  21 
138,,,  44432 — steering  with  oars,  ii.  81>7 — oars,  1.  2  7519  is  a 
slightly  free  rendering  of  hlumr,  the  'loom'  of  the  oar; 
read,  there  many  a  loom  was  shaken — oar-blades  (bl63 


444  Index  III  [shi 

ara),  i.  27521 — oar-stroke  (araburSr),  iii.  i3o22 — oar  (ne^Si), 
the  rowing  instrument,  iii.  130.,,-, 

Pier  (bryggja),  the  one  in  Geirsver  the  first  in  Norway, 
where,  coming  from  the  north,  there  was  a  berth  for  ships 
(bryggjulaegi),  ii.  26424.26 

Poop  (lypting),  the  place  at  the  stern  where  the  commander 
of  a  man-of-war  had  his  station,  i.  36520  366l7  3724  ii.  i3o14 
356ii  357^1  iii-  27i9  x388  4i21)3  As  the  word  indicates,  it 
was  a  room  with  a  floor  above  the  ordinary  deck  from 
where  a  view  was  open  over  the  whole  ship:  King  Olaf 
stood  on  the  poop  of  the  Worm  and  showed  high  up  aloft, 
i.  36624.25 — Kolbiorn  the  Marshal  went  up  on  to  the  poop, 
3743.4 — the  roomy  poop  of  Erling's  skei'S  towered  much 
high  above  the  other  ships,  ii.  35723.25 — in  some  cases  at 
least,  perhaps  generally,  this  habitation  was  open  to  the 
top  and  tilted  over,  iii.  8215.16 — it  served  as  a  dormitory  for 
the  captain,  824.5  16.1S — it  was  so  close  to  the  rudder  that 
the  occupant  could  have  his  hand  on  the  tiller,  225,3.7 

Prow  (stafn),  see  also  stem;  stafn  seems  to  include  the  ex- 
treme space  in  the  fore  of  a  ship,  when  it  does  not  signify 
the  prow  looked  at  from  the  outside,  i.  275^  3 3 1 26  352.,,, 
iii.  4oir  4in  21  i4710  22 — (framstafn)  ii.  6o28  iii.  40731 — (sox) 
i.  3533 — (brandr)  prop,  the  end  of  the  stem  post  which  shot 
above  the  gunwales  to  varying  extent,  and  by  the  poets  is 
used  as  pars  pro  toto,  signifying  ship,  iii.  1313  147^— 
(svirar)  cf.  beak,  130,3 

Prowplates  (tingl),  the  exact  form  and  fashion  of  these 
ornaments  is  nowhere  described;  they  seem  to  have  been 
the  primitive  adornments  which  later  took  the  form  of  gild- 
ing of  the  prow,  i.  ii212  i5714 

Rafts  (vi^ir),  thrown  overboard  with  clothes  and  precious 
things  heaped  on  the  top  of  them  in  order,  by  attracting 
the  cupidity  of  a  pursuing  host,  to  escape  an  unequal  fight, 
i.  ioo23.24 

Reef  (hand-rif,  hefill,  hefia  segl).  In  the  pursuit  of  Olaf  the 
Holy  by  Erling,  ii.  3 5 5 3.s  Snorri  states  that  Erling's  skei*> 
(cutter)  went  much  faster  than  the  rest  of  his  ships. 
'  Then  he  let  reef  the  sail  and  waited  for  his  host '  (pa.  let 
hann  hefia  seglit  .  .  .).  The  sense  of  hefia  here  seems  cer- 
tainly to  be  'to  furl,'  3553  and  the  passage:  'then  he  let 


SHl] 


Index  III  445 


fly  the  sail  from  the  reefs'  (let  harm  ]>a  hleypa  tir  heflunum 
segli  .  .  .)  should  read:  then  he  let  unfurl  the  sail,  355o.2...3 
But  '  then  he  let  .  .  .  take  one  reef  out  of  them,'  the  sails 
of  his  various  ships  (pa  let  harm  .  .  .  svifta  af  handrifi) 
evidently  refers  to  the  ordinary  act  of  unreefing,  35517 
Rigging  (rerSi)  included  mast,  sail,  shrouds,  and  running 

tackle,  ii.  19507  453n  "i-  59i:  ^Og 

Rivet  (saumr),  see  Nails. 

Roller  (hlunnr),  a  round  log  on  which  ships  were  drawn 
aland  or  run  out  to  sea,  i.  273.x,  iii.  3215 

Rowing  (roa,  r6Sr),  the  chief  mode  of  propelling  open  craft 
and  warships  intended  for  service  in  Scandinavian  waters, 
i.  17209  1737  passim. 

Rowlock  (hamla),  a  strap  by  means  of  which  the  oar  was  kept 
in  position  against  the  tholepin  and  prevented  from  slipping 
along  the  gunwale  in  rowing,  iii.  i3312 

Rudder  (styri,  stjorn),  i.  326,3  iii.  2720 — ship  rudder  (leggja 
styri  i  lag),  i.  32513.u  ii.  6S  iii.  2255.6 — to  unship  rudders 
(leggja  sty"ri  or  lagi),  ii.  84 — The  rudder,  about  the  arrange- 
ment of  which  Snorri  is  silent,  was  placed  on  the  starboard 
side  '  buttock  '  of  the  ship,  in  certain  cases  at  least,  in  the 
following  manner:  the  round  top  of  it  was  secured  to  the 
gunwale  by  means  of  a  loop,  the  rudder-lock  or  rudder- 
strap  (styrihamla) ;  at  a  proper  distance  down  a  cone- 
shaped  piece  of  wood  was  nailed  to  the  side  of  the  boat, 
the  top  of  the  cone  being  plumb  with  the  outside  of  the 
gunwale.  Through  the  rudder,  where  it  took  the  form  of 
a  broad  oarblade,  a  hole  was  made  corresponding  to  one 
through  the  cone-shaped  piece  of  wood  which  went  right 
through  the  side  of  the  boat.  A  cord  drawn  through  the 
hole  in  the  rudder  and  the  conic  piece  of  wood  and  made 
fast  within-board,  gave  to  the  rudder  a  fixed  position. 
By  loosening  the  cord  the  rudder  could  be  lifted  at  will 
and  taken  inboard.  Through  the  neck  of  the  rudder  a 
square  hole  was  made,  into  which  fitted  the  end  of  the 
tiller  (hjalmunvolr,  helm-pin),  by  means  of  which  the 
helmsman  moving  it  towards  his  person  starboarded  the 
rudder,  and  ported  it  by  the  reverse  action. 

Sail  (segl,  O.E.,  G.,  Sw.  segel,  Dan.  sejl,  Dutch  zeil),  by  some 
modern  scholars  plausibly  connected  with  the  root  sek,  T  ..it. 


446  Index  III  [shi 

seco,  secula,  cf.  segmentum,  with  a  primitive  sense  of  '  cut 
off  piece,'  '  snip.'  The  art  of  sailing  seems  to  have  come  in, 
in  the  North,  some  time  during  the  period  that  lies  between 
the  date  of  the  building  of  the  so-called  Nydam  boat,  say 
fourth  cent.,  and  the  commencement  of  the  Viking  age, 
eighth  cent.  Sail  mentioned,  i.  6gi  32510  ii.  67  iii.  129^ 
4456 ;  (Poet-  vefr>  woof),  786 — sail  striped  with  a  bend 
(s.  stafat  meSvendi),  ii.  2i6s  23831 — sails  banded  of  blue 
and  red  and  green  (segl  stofut  meS  bla  ok  rau^u  ok 
grsenu),  31520-21  — sa^  white  as  snowdrift  done  with  red 
and  blue  bends  (hvitt  sem  drift  ok  stafat  rau^u  ok  bla 
me^  vendi),  332s.9  All  the  sails  on  the  ships  of  K.  Sigurd 
Terusalem-farer  were  set  with  pall,  both  fore  and  aft  (611 
segl  hans  varu  sett  pellum,  bae^i  pat  er  fram  vissi  ok  aptr), 
iii.  25828.29  Service  in  connection  with  the  sail :  draw  up 
sail  (draga  segl  upp),  ii.  263^ — get  up  sail  (draga  segl), 
266., — haul  up  sail  (draga  segl),  26531.32 — hoist  sail  (draga 
segl),  i.  3303  36i25  ii.  26418.19  265^  332,.  iii.  46810— hoist  sail 
topmast  high  (draga  segl  vi^  hiin),  ii.  85 — to  up  sail  (vinda 
segl),  27303 — set  sail  (setja  upp  segl),  2  7330  323,3 — set  sails 
endlong  of  a  ship  (aka  seglum  at  endilongu  skipi),  i.e.,  by 
means  of  the  sheets  attached  to  the  clews  of  the  sail  (each 
ship  had  only  one  square  sail)  to  stretch  them  so  as  to 
catch  full  a  sidewind,  iii.  2580^.03 — sails  coming  down 
athwartship  (fara  ofan  pverskipa)  by  reason  of  the  hal- 
liards being  cut  by  an  attacking  enemy,  445.33.04 — to  lower 
sail  (lata  segl  siga),  ii.  35516 — strike  sail  (hlaiSa  seglum),  i. 
3629  365^  iii.    8^— (hleypa  ofan   segli),  ii.  3566— (lata 

ofan  segl),  i.  3652o-2i — (leggJa  segi)>  ii-  26325— (leggJa  ofan 
segl),  33 1 07 — reef  sail  (hefla  segl),  3553 — let  sail  fly  from 
the  reefs  (hleypa  heflum  lir  segli,  lit,  to  let  loose  the  fur- 
ling lines  of  a  s.),  35522-23 — topped  sails  (h^nd  segl),  iii. 

278 

Shed,  see  Boathouse. 

Shipbuilding  :  details  thereof  supplied  only  in  the  case  of 
the  '  Long  Worm  : '  slips  (bakka-stokkar)  on  which  the 
keel  was  laid,  i.  3437 — smiths  employed  :  for  joining  (fella), 
for  chipping  (telgja),  for  smiting  rivets  (sla  saum),  for  flit- 
ting timbers  (flytja  vrSu),  343n.12  A  distinction,  which 
does  not  appear  in  the  translation,  is  drawn  in  the  original 


SHl] 


Index  III  447 


between  stafna-smiSr,  which  literally  means  :  smith  of  the 
stems,  and  hofuSsmiSr :  master-smith.  The  former  was 
clearly  a  shipwright,  to  whom  was  assigned  the  charge  of 
constructing  the  whole  framework  of  the  ship,  firmly  at- 
taching the  stem  and  stern  posts  to  the  keel  by  means  of 
the  all-important  dead-woods,  and  securely  fixing  the  rib- 
arrangement  to  the  keel ;  the  latter,  judging  from  the 
incident  through  which  Thorberg  Shave-hewer  advanced 
to  the  position,  seems  to  have  been,  practically,  a  general 
superintendent,  3439.10  2i"34425  ^n  ^s  connection  we 
have  to  amend  the  words:  'But  now  when  they  were 
gotten  to  the  free-board '  to  :  '  But  now  when  they  came  to 
the  planking  of  the  ship  (enn  er  feir  baru  skipit  bor<Si). 
The  point  is  important  in  so  far  as  it  shows  that  the 
stafna-smrSr  was  independent  of  the  hofu^smi^r.  For, 
when  the  planking,  or  putting  on  the  skin,  began,  Thorberg, 
having  done  his  allotted  work,  could  absent  himself  for  a 

long  time,  343i6-i9  .     . 

Shrouds  (rerSi),  ii.  331^  should  rather  read  rigging,  q.v. 

Sinew  (sin,  n.,  material  of  sinew,  sinew-thread,  dat.  sini), 
the  material  by  means  of  which  some  Finns,  i.e.,  Lapps, 
riveted  together  the  boards  of  two  cutters  which  they 
built  for  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  up  in  the  extreme  north  of 
Halogaland,  1138,  apparently  the  last  instance  on  record 
in  Scandinavia  of  the  survival  of  the  coracle -building 
method,  iii.  35630.33 — these  cutters,  tradition  will  have  it, 
beat  all  other  ships  in  speed,  35712-i7 

Starboard,  in  the  phrase  '  More  to  starboard'  (meir  a  stj6rn, 
short  for  meir  a  stjbrnborSa),  stj6rn  meaning  both  steer- 
ing and  rudder,  and  the  rudder  being  fixed  to  the  right- 
hand  side  buttock  of  the  stern,  that  side  of  the  ship  was 
called  stjdmborSi,  lit.  star-boarder,  iii.  2ii7 

Staying-board  (hofSa-fjol),  a  piece  of  panelling  at  the  back 
of  the  helmsman,  i.  37i12-i3  cf.  Head-board. 

Steering  with  oars  (styra  me?  arum),  see  Oar. 

Stem  (stafn,  but  plur.  Stafnar,  stems  =  stem  and  stern,  iii. 
253i2)>  tne  extreme  part  of  the  prow,  q.v.,  i.  983,,  iii.  4°k, 
131-"   A  more  definite  term  is   'fore-stem'  (framstafn), 

4130  .  •   j     , 

Stem-men  (stafn-bilar),  the  warriors  that  occupied  the  ex- 


448  Index  III  [shi 

treme  space  in  the  stem  or  prow  as  well  as  those  who  had 
their  station  on  the  fore-castle,  and  who  were  the  most 
valiant  of  the  fighting  force  on  board,  i.  983^.29 

Stern  (skut-stafn),  iii.  40307 

Stern-moorings  (skutfestar),  iii.  (40307)  4Q730 

Strait-hold,  see  Mainhold. 

Tackle  (strengir),  in  the  kenning:  steed  of  tackle  =  ship,  ii. 

59io  (sta§)  &•  27s 
Tar  (bra/3),  boiled  pitch,  ii.  2  7o10 

Tent  (tjald),  the  awning  which  was  rigged  over  a  certain 
part,  or  over  the  whole  of  a  ship,  when  in  harbour,  and 
was  struck  on  the  ship's  going  to  sea  or  into  action,  i.  24821 
ii.  32 17  cf.  iii.  8825.26    See  Tilt. 

Thole  (har),  the  thole-pin,  hence  Thole-man  (haseti,  one 
seated  by  the  thole-pin  or  rowlock),  oarsman,  rower,  ii.  515 
iii.  i3027 

Thwarts  (innviftir,  lit.  inside  timbers,  possibly  referring  to 
ribs  and  cross-beams  (bitar)  as  well  as  to  the  thwarts),  iii. 

25311 
Tiller  (hjalmunvolr,  lit.  helm-pin),  stuck  into  a  square  hole 

in  the  neck  or  stock  of  the  rudder,  and  moved  by  the 
right  hand  of  the  helmsman  away  from  or  towards  his 
person,  according  as  porting  or  star-boarding  the  rudder 
was  required,  i.  29518  iii.  2257  We  have  used  it  some- 
what loosely  for  styri  =  rudder,  i.  697  27925  ii.  239,3 11 

Tiller,  ii.  514  not  an  exact  rendering  of  styrihamla,  which 
was  the  loop  round  the  neck  of  the  rudder,  which  kept  it 
in  a  fixed  position  to  the  gunwale.    See  Rudder. 

Tiller-head,  or  rather  rudder-neck  (styrishnakki),  the 
stock  of  the  rudder,  i.  37 17 

Tilt  (tjald)  =  Tent,  above.  Long  tilt  (langt  tjald),  a  tilt  rigged 
along  the  whole  or  the  greater  part  of  the  ship,  iii.  i3012 — 
cast,  sweep  off  tilts  (kasta  af  ser  tjoldum),  ii.  2i722  26315 
—  strike  tilts  (bregma  tjoldum),  265^.07 — (reka  af  ser 
tjold),  26530 — (reka  af  tjold),  i.  3649.10 — (lata  af  tjold),  ii. 
26823.24 — (fera  af  tjold),  iii.  2767 — unship  the  tilt  (taka  af 
tjold),  i.  33 2X — (tjold  fara  af  skipum),  ii.  36230.31 — suitable 
gift  for  a  king,  ii.  244l7 — tilts  used  for  roofing  in  booths 
at  a  Thing  in  Thorshaven,  Z°S\ 

Vane  (ve^r-viti  =  wind-pointer),  ii.  33i28;  gilded  vane,  332s 


shi — shr]  Index  III  449 

Vat  (fat),  a  cask  containing  such  necessaries,  fluid  and  solid, 

as  were  needed  by  the  crew  of  a  ship,  iii.  2o12 
Work  (rausn)  =  forecastle,  q.v. 

SHIP-FUNERAL,  King  Haki's,  described,  i.  4o1M4 
SHIPPING  in  Tunsberg  of  great  importance  already  in  Harald 
Hairfair's  days,  i.  io59.n  13420-24  .and  continued  so  even 
through  the  reign  of  Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  I27r.12  2io23.29  249ia-u 
SHIP-RATH,  -RATHE  (skiprerSa,  lit.  ship-outfit),  a  name  for 
each  of  the  about  260  maritime  districts  of  Norway,  on  the 
householders  of  which,  by  a  law  promulgated  by  Hakon 
the  Good,  it  was  incumbent  to  fit  out  a  man-of-war  for  the 
king's  service  when  he  called  out  a  lerSangr  or  naval  levee, 

i-  173^5  I742  "•  288i3 
SHOE-SWAIN  (skdsveinn),  a  page,  a  valet,  111.  8s5 

SHOOTING  from  the  bow  with  great  precision,  i.  37img  iii- 
224i-9  33°i3-2o — s-  spears  with  both  hands  at  once,  ii.  46423-29 

SHOOTING  FIRE  (skoteldr),  explosive  fire-works,  used  at 
the  Hippodrome  in  Constantinople,  ab.  1100,  iii.  2  6o22 

SHRIVE  (skripta),  a  ceremony  to  which  a  condemned  criminal 
must  submit  before  being  allowed  to  listen  to  high  mass  from 
outside  of  the  church,  ii.  2  2  74.712.15 

SHRINE  (skrin),  done  with  gold  and  silver,  containing  the 
holy  relic  of  K.  Olaf  Haraldson,  described,  iii.  i63.u— guarded 
and  the  keys  of  it  kept  by  K.  Magnus  the  Good,  8723.2S — 
kept  in  Clement's  church,  936.7— later  in  Olaf 's  church,  while 
Mary's  church  was  building,  io56.s — locked  for  the  last  time 
by  K.  Harald  Sigurdson  in  1066,  and  the  keys  thrown  into 
the  river  Nid,  i6310.u — from  Mary's  church  it  was  moved  by 
K.  Olaf  the  Quiet  to  Christ's  Church  and  placed  over  the 
altar,  i95l4.16  21  22  i968  10  u  23723  25  303,— Svein  Wolfson, 
being  invested  with  earldom  over  Denmark  by  K.  Magnus 
the  Good,  delivers  his  oath  of  fealty  with  hands  laid  on  a 
shrine  containing  holy  relics,  31^  12.1G— shrines  carried  in 
funeral  processions,  6933-70!— shrine  given  by  K.  Eric  Ever- 
minded  to  Cross  Church,  Kings'  Rock,  3°93r3I0i— the 
shrine  of  Hallward  the  Holy  in  Oslo  miraculously  heavy 
and  light,  352nl9 — brought  to  Raumrealm,  to  save  it  from 
capture  by  the  Danes,  and  kept  there  for  three  months  (1 137), 

3523i~353i 

VI.  GG 


450  Index  III  [shr — sin 

SHROUDS  (skriiS),  accoutrement,  armour,  'byrnies,'  iii. 
i7512  cf.  the  statement  in  the  prose  narrative:  'the  men  left 
their  byrnies,'  i.e.,  on  board  ship,  i7o26 

SIDE  (siSr),  of  articles  of  dress,  long,  reaching  far  down  the 
body,  iii.  2  9431 

SILVER  (silfr),  as  currency:  poured  in  through  one  of  the 
three  windows  of  Frey's  mound  as  '  scat,'  i.  23™ — weighed 
(vegit),  good  in  quality,  ii.  922  while  the  burnt  (brent)  was 
refined,  iii.  i420 — ten  marks  of  s.  (perhaps  weighed),  paid  as 
land-dues,  q.v.,  for  one  ship  arriving  in  Norway  from  Iceland, 
ii.  952 — great  wealth  of  s.  (probably  mostly  weighed),  appro- 
priated by  Olaf  Tryggvison  from  Raud  the  Strong,  i.  33311-12 
— silver  plundered  in  western  viking-raids,  iii.  i2419.24 — re- 
lation of  weighed  (current)  silver  money  to  refined  ditto  as 
3  :  1  in  Iceland  in  the  ninth  century,  see  Scatpenny.    But 
even  this  silver  must  be  refined  before  an  ornamental  personal 
present  could  be  made  of  it,  cf.  '  men  took  counsel  to  get 
smiths  to  refine  the  silver'  (re^u  menn  fat  af  at  fa  smi^a  til 
at  skira  silfrit),  2i99.10 — silver  enormously  debased  in  com- 
mon circulation  in  Faroe  ab.  1027,  ii.  30633-30730     From 
Archbishop  Eystein's  arrangement  in  1157  with  the  people 
of  his  diocese  that  payments  of  archiepiscopal  dues  should 
be  made  in  '  silver-proof '  ounce  (silfr-metinn  eyrir),  and  not 
in  a  'fine-proof  one  (sakmetinn  eyrir),  on  the  ground  that 
the  latter,  although  it  was  a  legal  payment  to  the  king's 
treasury,  amounted  to  only  one  half  of  the   value  of  the 
former,  shows  that  at  that  time  the  currency  of  the  country 
was  debased  to  the  amount  of  fifty  per  cent,  iii.  45623"457io 
46i28-4624 — silver,  as  pocket  money,  ii.  92^  i26x — as  orna- 
ment for  idols,  ii.  205s.14  2o623.26  2o814  39 — adorning  an  altar- 
piece  of  Byzantine  workmanship,  iii.  309^ 
SILVER-BOWL  (silfr-kalkr),  a  cup  used  at  drinking  by  pairs 
(man  and  woman  together),  i.  5922.27  6o4.]7 — (silfr-bolli)  a 
basin  on  the  lap  of  Jomali,  the  god  of  the  Biarms,  filled  with 
silver-pennies,  ii.  2625.9  14.15 
SILVER-DISH  (silfr-diskr),  carried  on  his  person  by  the  high- 
wayman Arnliot  Gellini,  and  made  present  of  by  him  to  K. 

Olaf  the  Holy,  ii.  3005  3OI3i-33  3°29  41 526-27 
SILVER-PENNIES  (silfr-penningar),  see  Penny. 
SINGLE  COMBAT  (einvigi),  a  literal  translation,  but  meaning 


six — sle]  Index  III  451 

that  one  man  alone  fought  with  twelve  and  slew  them  all, 

i.  8IJ3 

SINGING  PSALMS,  i.e.,  the  psalter,  while  journeying  on  horse- 
back (Olaf  the  Holy),  ii.  2325.0 — singing  over  water  (bene- 
dictio  fontis)  on  Washday  (Saturday)  before  Easter  (in  Ice- 
land), iii.  3392p  cf.  Water — singing  by  a  servant  maid  at  her 
handmill  so  fair  as  to  catch  a  king's  heart,  373^.0 

SITTING  OUT  (sitja  uti),  to  spend  a  night  out  on  cross-ways 
amidst  invocations  to  the  powers  of  darkness  to  reveal  secrets 
or  tender  counsel,  iii.  424^., 

SKALDS  (skald),  see  Poets. 

SKIN-CHANGING  JOURNEY  (hamfor),  journey  undertaken 
by  a  wizard  who  by  magic  art  could  change  his  shape  into 
that  best  suited  to  the  purpose,  i.  2  6802-2  6c)91 

SKINS,  white  (hvit  skinn),  ermine  lining  for  a  king's  robes  of 
state,  iii.  8630 

SKINKERS  (skenkingar),  not  quite  an  exact  translation, 
skinker  meaning  the  cup-bearer,  but  skenking  the  act  of  cup- 
bearing  and  pouring  out,  ii.  15% 

SKIRT  (skaut),  of  a  cloth,  meaning  really  the  cloth  itself,  in 
the  technical  phrase,  to  bear  lots  into  skirt  (bera  hluti  i 
skaut),  to  throw  lots,  which  are  to  be  drawn,  into  a  cloth  held 
in  the  hand  like  a  purse,  iii.  6im2  16  9., 

SLAUGHTER-WETHER  (slag-sauSr),  a  sheep  slaughtered 
for  regaling  Icelandic  households  in  autumn  when  all  hay- 
making work  has  come  to  an  end  (while  the  to^ugjold  is  a 
domestic  feast,  of  similar  kind,  when  the  haymaking  of  the 
cultivated  homefields  is  finished),  ii.  4O920.24 

SLAVES,  bond-folk  (anau^igt  folk),  do  shepherds'  duty,  i. 
49i3-i5 — Olaf  Tryggvison  and  Thorgils  Thorolfson  sold  for 
slaves  for  'a  right  good  he-goat,'  22Q13.15 — and  later  on  Olaf 
was  disposed  of  for  the  price  of  a  good  cloak,  229^.^  See 
Thrall. 

SLAVE  TRADING  in  Estland,  i.  229o.l7  3oo15.29 

SLEDGE-ROAD  (akbraut),  along  which  winter-travelling  was 
effected  in  Jamtland,  ii.  3oi23 

SLEIGH  (sle'Si  and  skiSsle'Si,  i.e.,  a  sleigh,  the  beams  of  which 
turn  up  in  front  like  snow-shoes,  ski^),  used  by  hunters  for 
carrying  the  proceeds  of  the  chase,  ii.  15603  07  1 577 — a  larger 
kind,  used  for  carting  corn  and  for  travelling  purposes,  2795., ._,-, 


452  Index  III  [sle — spa 

SLEUTH-HOUNDS  (spor-hundar,  spoor-hounds,  blood- 
hounds), ii.  29637 — quaint  idea  of  their  intelligence,  298^1- — 

iii-  3°43-5 
SLINGER  (Slongvir),  a  pet  horse  of  King  Adils  of  Upsala,  1. 

5°24 

SMALTS  (smelt),  sort  of  enamel,  iii.  3093,, 

SMITH'S  WORK  (smiS),  K.  Olaf  the  Holy  deft  and  skilful  in 
all  kinds  of,  ii.  424 

SNOUT-ANVIL  (nef-ste^i),  an  anvil  one  arm  of  which  tapers 
into  a  round  prolongation,  i.  28o6  9.10 

SNOW-SHOES  (skiS),  Einar  Thambarskelfir  better  skilled  at 
snow-shoeing  (skfSfcerr)  than  any  man,  ii.  2  221.22 — Finn  the 
Littlebest  skilled  of  men  on  snow-shoes  (kunna  vrS  skiS),  1 2614 
— skiS  used  in  winter-hunting,  i5620 — Arnliot  Cellini's  snow- 
shoeing,  29921.82 — (andri  or  ondurr,  pi.  andrar,  this  seems  to 
have  been  the  name  that  Norwegians  gave  to  the  snow-shoes 
of  the  Finns,  i.e.,  the  Lapps,  and  may  be  a  Lapp  word)  occurs 
only  in  the  phrase,  '  Snowsome  it  sniffeth,  lads,  quoth  Finns, 
had  snow-shoes  for  sale,'  by  which  Sveinki  probably  meant 
to  convey  to  his  following  a  warning  to  this  effect :  the  out- 
look is  stormy,  get  ready  for  it,  iii.  2i6x  The  interpretation 
in  the  Diet,  misses  the  point. 

SONG  (songr),  probably  =  chant,  i.  3363,, 

SONG-HOUSE  (songhiis),  the  choir  or  chancel  in  a  church, 

iii-  36q24 

SOOTH-SAYER  (spamaSr),  a  hermit  in  the  Scilly  islands  en- 
dowed with  the  gift  of  prophecy,  who  converted  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison  to  Christianity,  i.  26219-26412 

SORCERY  (fjolkyngi,  lit.  manifold  knowledge),  i.  193 — spread 
into  the  world  from  the  As-folk,  i918.20    Cf.  Wizardry. 

SOUL-BOOTING  GIFT  (salu-gjof,  "salu-b6t),  offering  for 
masses  to  be  said  for  the  repose  of  souls  (honorarium  missae); 
many  marks  of  silver  given  for  the  purpose  in  favour  of  his 
enemies  just  before  the  battle  of  Sticklestead  by  Olaf  the 
Holy,  ii.  4o619-407x 

SPAEDOM  (spa),  foretelling,  prophesy,  iii.  9424 

SPARROW  (sporr),  a  pet  of  K.  Day  the  Wise,  who  under- 
stood the  '  speech  of  fowl '  (fugls  rodd) ;  it  told  the  king  many 
tidings,  and  flew  from  land  to  land;  the  killing  of  it  signally 
avenged  by  the  king,  i.  3Iso-3232 


spa — spo]  Index  III  453 

SPARTH,  see  Stake. 

SPEAKER- AT-LAW  (logsogumaSr),  the  highest  office-bearing 
person  in  the  Icelandic  commonwealth;  his  principal  duty 
was  to  '  say  up,'  i.e.,  publicly  to  recite,  the  whole  body  of 
the  law  during  his  triennial  tenure  of  office.  A  chronologic- 
ally arranged  series  of  these  office-bearers  in  Iceland  first 
composed  by  Ari  the  Learned,  i.  523  References  to,  ii.  69u.12 
73io  J35^  2459  2492i    In  Faroe>  246i9  269s  304.^  3093 

SPEAR-POINT  (geirs  oddr),  to  mark  one's  self  with,  when 
dying,  a  ceremony  instituted  by  Odin,  i.  21 00 — in  that  manner 
Niord  devoted  himself  to  Odin,  2  218.20 

SPELL,  SPELL-CRAFT  (seiSr),  incantation,  enchantment, 
a  '  mystery '  or  ceremony  accompanied  by  chanting  (galdr, 
from  gala  to  crow,  chant)  for  the  purpose  of  working  harm 
to  man  in  a  preternatural  manner.  Spell-craft  originated  with 
the  Vanir,  and  Freya,  the  daughter  of  Niord,  was  the  first  to 
teach  this  magic  art  to  the  Asfolk  according  to  the  fashion 
of  the  Vanir,  i.  i421.24 — Odin  was  a  master  of  this  art,  i82T- 
i93  7.12 — but  the  performance  of  'spells'  was  accompanied 
by  so  Viuch  '  lewdness  '  (ergi  =  obscenity)  that  it  was  con- 
sidered disgraceful  for  men  to  practice  the  ceremony,  and 
therefore  it  was  taught  to,  the  temple  priestesses,  i93.7 — 
Witchwife  Huld's  spell-work  on  K.  Vanland  and  his  de- 
scendants, 2  72-2  820  cf.  the  fate  of  K.  Agni,  335-3409  See  also 
Sorcery  and  Wizardry. 

SPELL-WORKERS  (seiSmenn,  s.  seiSmaSr),  i.  ^  i33s 

SPORTS  and  masteries  (leikar,  tyrdttir) :  Alf,  son  of  K.  Yngvar, 
and  Ingiald,  son  of  Road-Onund,  had  a  sveina-leik,  boys'- 
play,  with  two  sides  pitted  against  each  other,  but  no  details 
are  given  beyond  a  hint  that  it  was  a  game  of  strength,  i.  55 
is-22 — climbing  mountain-precipices,  i.  34O1S-25 — walking  along 
the  oars  of  a  ship  while  being  rowed,  34°2G.27 — playing  Wltn 
three  hand-saxes  (small  swords)  so  that  one  was  ever  in  the 
air  while  one  hilt  was  ever  in  the  hand,  340  28.29 — striking 
with  a  sword  equally  deftly  with  either  hand,  34°30— shoot- 
ing with  two  spears  at  once,  34o30.31  ii.  464  37-29 — swimming, 

335->t3362i  ii-  423  ni-   28oo-io   299i8-300s  34*10  18-16   364s-n 
4444.c — swiftness  of  foot  such  that  no  horse  could  overtake 

the  runner,  ii.  I26n.18  hi.  297iu-i*  17-19  2<f2998— skating  on  ice- 
bones  (isleggir,  leg-bones  of  animals  on  which,  by  pushing 


454  Index  III  [spr — sta 

one's  self  forward  by  means  of  an  iron-spiked  stick,  one 
may  slide  over  ice  at  a  very  quick  pace),  28o10.13 — skill  in 
managing  the  bow,  i.  37i4.9  ii.  2  2l7.21  iii.  28o14.20 — snow- 
shoeing,  q.v.,  28o.20.2.2 — hunting  with  hawks  and  hounds,  ii. 
I4028-I4i9 

SPRINKLING  a  new-born  child  with  water  (ausa  vatni)  on 
giving  a  name  to  it:  Queen  Ragnhild  bore  a  son(ab.  a.d.  849), 
and  he  was  sprinkled  with  water  and  named  '  Harald  '  (Hair- 
fair),  i.  853.5 — Duke  Guthorm  sprinkled  the  eldest  son  of 
King  Harald  (Hairfair)  with  water  and  gave  him  his  own 
name,  ii432-ii52 — 'now  the  wont  it  was  then  (ab.  a.d.  919) 
concerning  the  children  of  noble  men,  to  seek  carefully  one 
who  should  sprinkle  the  child  with  water  and  give  it  a  name,' 
1 3^8ii  18-20 — K.  Harald  Hairfair  sprinkles  a  grandson  with 
water  and  gives  him  his  own  name,  Harald  (Greycloak), 
14237.30 — K.  Hakon  the  Good  performs  the  same  ceremony 
on  the  son  of  Earl  Sigurd  of  Ladir,  i6i5.9 — Eric,  son  of  Earl 
Hakon,  was  sprinkled  with  water  and  given  name  immediately 
after  birth,  209l7.ls — Astrid,  with  few  people  about  her,  gives 
birth  to  Olaf  (Tryggvison)  in  a  holm  in  a  lake  and  the  child 
is  sprinkled  with  water  and  named,  22320.21 — Hrani  the  Wide- 
faring  sprinkled  Olaf  (the  Holy)  with  water  immediately  after 
birth,  28716.17 

SQUIRREL  (ikorni),  hunting  of,  ii.  15635-1573 

STAFF  (stafr),  walking-stick  :  K.  Sigurd  Sow's,  with  a  forgilded 
knob  of  silver  and  a  silvern  ring  in  it,  ii.  Z%\s-n — (bagall,  Lat. 
baculus)  a  bishop's  crosier,  20503  2S.30 — (geisl)  a  stock  used 
by  travellers  on  snowshoes  for  steadying  and  pushing  one's 
self  forward,  299,5 — (refSi)  elsewhere  translated  'cudgel '  and 
'  rod,'  see  Cudgel. 

STAFF-CARLES  (staf-karlar),  beggars,  ii.  444^ 

STAKE  (stik),  a  stake  or  pale  used  for  staking  (stika)  a  river 
so  as  to  make  it  impassable  for  ships,  i.  io916  29  iii.  403^  28 
4o621 

STAKE  OF  WOOD  (rudda),  '  which  some  men  call  a  club,' 
ii.  2o69.10 

STAKE  (spar^a),  really  an  Irish  war-axe  (with  a  curved  blade  ?), 
a  'sparth,'  ii.  i7727  iii.  24218 

STALL  (hjallr),  the  stand  on  which  stood  the  image  of  Thor 
in  Gudbrand  a  Dale's  Temple,  ii.  20512 


sta — str]  Index  III  455 

STANDING  STONES,  see  Stones. 

STEWARD  (arma^r),  over  a  royal  manor  whose  duty  it  was, 
amongst  others,  to  provide  banquets  at  such  manors  for  the 
king  when  travelling  through  the  land,  ii.  i9531  2i314.16  26 
2i616  279x  03  hi.  2Qi14  4223 

STEWARDSHIP  (armenning),  the  office  of  such  a  steward,  i. 
35413  ii.  23o4  33800  iii.  722  The  'stewardship'  (umboS)  with 
which  K.  Olaf  the  Holy  invested  Kalf  Arnison  in  Upper 
Thrandheim  was  probably  an  administrative  and  fiscal  office, 
ii.  199^  as  was  also  the  sysla  which  so  frequently  is  mentioned 
in  connection  with  armenning,  and  we  have  generally  trans- 
lated by  bailiffry,  q.v. 

STONE-KETTLE  (steinketill),  used  for  making  in  it  a  de- 
coction of  medicinal  plants,  ii.  44i29 

STONES  (steinar),  when  of  the  size  of  rocks,  habitations  of 
dwarfs,  i.  2  66.24 — standing  stones  (bauta-steinar),  raised  over 
men  of  mark  (inscribed,  generally,  with  a  short  obituary 
notice  in  runes),  i.  41922  2o15  2  720  3o13.14  i8o23.24 — Odin  informs 
Olaf  Tryggvison  that  the  standing  stones  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Ogvaldsness  were  raised  in  memory  of  the  mythic 
King  Ogvald,  315^  cf.  Stones  under  Weapons,  2. 

STORY-LAYS  (sogukvge^i),  dealing  with  persons  and  events, 
which  tradition  regarded  as  truthful  records  of  history,  used 
by  Snorri  as  sources  for  his  narrative,  i.  316.]9 

STORY  OF  THE  SKIOLDUNGS  (Skjoldungasaga),  a  lost 
Saga  of  the  '  Scyldings,'  an  early  Danish  race  of  kings,  quoted 
in  support  of  Snorri's  statements  in  regard  to  the  battle  on 
the  ice  of  the  Lake  Vener  between  Adils  and  Ali,  and  ad- 
duced as  the  source  of  the  story  of  Rolf  Kraki's  visit  to  Up- 
sula,  i.  5o15.21 

STRAND-HEW,  see  the  following. 

STRAND-SLAUGHTERING  (strandhogg,  strandarhogg), 
killing  on  the  strand  of  live  stock  robbed  for  the  purpose  of 
provisioning  a  viking  ship  or  fleet,  i.  4913  n82  i2219.20  2662C 

iii-  43s  10  2392s  30  24°e  15  24i7  ,      ,      „  „ 

STRATAGEMS  :  Egil  Woolsark's  at  the  battle  of  Rast-kalf,  1. 

1 7 7033 — Olaf  the  Holy's  when  penned  up  in  the  Malar  water 
by  iron  chains  across  its  outlet,  the  Stocksound,  ii.  712-8S 
16-26 — also  vvnen  he  prepared  to  destroy  London  Bridge,  14,,- 
I5~2;  and  when  he  caused  Earl  Hakon  Ericson's  cutter  to 


456  Index  III  [str — sun 

capsize  in  Saudungsound,  3O2g-3i20 — Earl  Svein  Hakonson's, 
to  elude  K.  Olaf,  49n.24 — O&f  the  Holy's  at  the  Holy  river 
against  K.  Knut,  320^-322,. — Harald  Sigurdson's  various 
war  stratagems,  iii.  64^-652  655-66r  6610-678  19-7o21  ioo?r 
ioi24 — K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  against  the  Moors  in 
Forminterra,  2  5218-2  5422 — Erling  Askew's  against  Hakon 
Shoulderbroad  in  Tunsberg,  4397-2S 

STRAW  (stra).  used  for  covering  of  floors  in  Norwegian  halls, 
winter  and  summer,  from  K.  Olaf  the  Quiet's  days,  ii.  i928.0 

STRAW-BED  (pall-stra,  lit.  dais'-straw,  or  bench-straw),  a 
common  sort  of  bedding  in  early  times ;  to  die  on  such  a 
bed,  instead  of  falling  in  battle,  a  dreaded  matter,  i.  i7619.23 

SUNDAY  (sunnudagr,  O.E.  sunnandseg),  first  observed  as  a 
Sabbath  day  in  Norway  by  K.  Hakon  the  Good,  i.  i642 

SUICIDE:  Haki  the  bearserk  falls  on  his  own  sword  on  being 
robbed  of  Ragnhild,  d.  of  K.  Sigurd  Hart,  i.  8226.g0 

SUN  darkened  in  the  clear  heavens  at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead. 
In  the  year  1030  there  was  an  eclipse  which  in  the  latitude 
of  Sticklestead  was  nearly  a  total  one.  It  happened  on 
Monday,  the  31st  of  August,  which  therefore  must  be  the  day 
of  the  battle,  and  not  Wednesday  the  29th  July,  as  the  sagas 
aver,  if  the  eclipse  happened  indeed  during  the  battle.  But  it  is 
possible  that  the  Norwegian  ecclesiastical  tradition  arbitrarily 
transferred  the  eclipse  to  the  date  of  the  battle  in  order  to 
enhance  the  solemnity  of  the  martyr's  last  hours.  This  is 
made  probable  by  the  stanza,  ii.  43i4.12  adduced  from  the 
memorial  drapa  on  Olaf,  which  Sigvat  composed  some  fifteen 
years  after  the  battle,  where  he  distinctly  states  he  heard  in 
the  east,  i.e.,  in  Norway,  that  the  portent  of  the  darkened 
sky  happened  on  the  day  of  the  battle.  Munch,  '  Det  norske 
Folks  Historie,'  i.  2,  p.  786  and  n.  2,  supports  the  view  that 
the  battle  was  fought  31st  August,  but  his  arguments  are  not 
convincing.  When,  in  connection  with  this  point,  Munch 
takes  natalitium  in  '  Breviar.  Nidrosiense '  to  mean  Olaf 's 
earthly  birthday,  and  festivitas  (Adam  of  Bremen,  ii.  59)  in 
'agitur  festivitas  ejus  4  Kal.  Aug.,'  to  mean  not  death-feast, 
but,  presumably,  birthday  feast,  it  may  be  observed  that 
natalitium  festum  is  the  birthday  feast  of  a  saint,  i.e.,  his 
death  day,  on  which  he  was  born  to  his  heavenly  life,  and 
festivitas  is  the  ecclesiastical  celebration  of  that  birthday. 


sur — tem]  Index  III  457 

SURETY  (festa),  bail  accepted  as  a  guarantee  for  an  accused 
person's  appearance  at,  and  performance  of,  a  decreed  ordeal, 

ii-  2737 
SWAIN   (sveinn),  a  personal  attendant,  a  valet,  iii.   2o10  cf. 

Shoe-swain. 
SWIMMING  (sund),  see  Sports. 
SWINE  (svin),  ii.  338o6 
SWINE-FLESH  (fiesk),  bacon,  an  article  of  fare  on  board  a 

man-of-war,  iii.  101- 
S WINE-STY  (svina-badi):  Thorleif  the  Sage  cures  Halfdan  the 

Black  of  dreamlessness  by  persuading  him  to  sleep  one  night 

in  a  swine-sty,  i.  847.10 — a  swine-sty  at  Rimul  Earl  Hakon's 

last  hiding-place,  2Q4l7.19  2g610-29721 
TABLE  (borS),  see  BorS,  under  main  heading  '  House.' 
TABLE-ARRAY,  table  service,  table-cloth.    See  BorSbiinaSr, 

borSdukr,  under  main  heading  '  House.' 
TABLES,  playing  at  (tefia),  the  game  may  possibly  have  been 

chess,  q.v.,  iii.  3393.1G 
TABLE-SWAIN  (skutilsveinn),  well-born  man  in  waiting  at 

the  king's  table,  iii.  2Qon 
TACTICS  :  Emperor  Otto's,  in  turning  the  Danish  position  at 

the  Danework,  i.  257m9 — Harald  Sigurdson's  at  Stamford- 
bridge,  iii.  i7210-30 
TAILLAGE  (alogur,  lit.  imposts),  state  or  imperial  taxes,  n. 

2  7  ^i>7 

TARWOOD  (tyrviSr),  pitch-pine,  i.  4018.19 

TELLING  UP  OF  FOREFATHERS  '(langfeSgatal),  gene- 
alogy of  kings  or  other  people  of  high  birth  going  back  to 
antiquity,  which  Snorri  says  he  drew  upon  for  his  work;  it 
seems  probable  that  he  had  in  his  mind  chiefly  the  genealogies 
of  the  three  great  races  of  rulers  in  the  north:  the  Skioldungs 
in  Denmark,  Ynglings  in  Sweden  and  Norway  (Ynglingatal), 
and  the  Haloga  race,  or  Earls  of  Ladir  descended  from 
Saeming,  Odin's  son  (Haleygjatal),  i.  313 

TEMPLE,  GODHOUSE  (hof),  reared  by  Odin  at  Ancient 
Sigtown,  i.  1603 — Frey  raised  a  great  temple  at  Upsala,  endow- 
ing it  with  all  his  wealth,  2  22Cv28 — temple  of  Ladir,  i6512  166,. 
i6q5 — destroyed  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  309,., ]2 — temple  of 
Mere  in  Upper  Thrandheim,  i7on.29 — its  idols  destroyed  by 
the  same  king,  32o21-32i3 — the  sons  of  Eric  Bloodaxe  destroy 


458  Index  III  [tem — tha 

temples  and  break  up  feasts  of  blood-offerings,  2oiir.ls — but 
Earl  Hakon  ordered  temples  and  blood-offerings  to  be  re- 
stored and  maintained  throughout  Norway,  2425.23— temple 
rites,  i.  i215.21  2ol7.20  i659-i66l7  169^-170,. 

TEMPLE  PRIESTS  (hof-gofcar),  cf.  Diar,  i.  i216.21  i420  i626 
— called  Lay-smiths  (ljdSasmi^ir),  because  they  brought  to 
the  North  the  art  of  poetry,  i724.26 — taught  by  Odin  himself, 
they  were  next  to  him  in  all  wisdom  and  cunning,  i916 

TEMPLE  PRIESTESS  (bl6t-gy«ja,  lit.  sacrifice  priestess,  and 
simply  gy^ja,  id.),  appointed  under  the  Odinic  rite  to  officiate 
at  the  temple  service;  the  temple  priestesses  are  chiefly 
noted  by  Snorri  for  practising  wizardry  and  sorcery,  and  for 
indulging  in  such  lewdness  in  the  performance  of  the  religious 
mysteries  that  it  was  thought  '  a  shame  for  men  to  deal 
therein,'  i.  i491.<,4  193-7 

TENANT  (landsbui),  i.  2i918 

TENT  (land-tjald),  land-tent,  land-tilt,  in  contradistinction  to 
the  ship  tent  or  awning,  i.  3324  345  ii.  364^  365x  iii.  69,,  G 
8317  8429 — Harald  Sigurdson's  and  Gyrd's  dispute  about  the 
right  of  choosing  the  place  for  pitching  tents  when  campaign- 
ing, iii.  6o10-622 — tent  serving  for  a  booth  at  a  public  Thing, 
ii.  3094 

TENT-POLE  (tjald-stong),  i.  349 

THANE  (fegn,  O.E.  >egen,  J>egn,  Germ,  degen),  a  'liege-man,' 
a  free  subject.  From  the  story  describing  how  Harald  Hair- 
fair  was  unwittingly  tricked  (not  knowing  Anglo-Saxon  court 
ceremonial)  into  committing  an  act  which  made  him,  as  it  was 
claimed,  a  pegn  of  K.  Athelstan,  it  would  seem  that  a  man 
taking  by  the  hilt  a  sword  reached  forth  by,  or  on  the  behalf 
of,  a  king,  or  a  lord  of  power,  thereby  declared  himself  the 
thane,  or  '  liege  man,'  of  such  a  king  or  lord  (this  ceremony, 
if  it  ever  was  a  ceremony,  is  just  the  reverse  of  what  from 
of  old  has  been  the  custom,  when  a  monarch  finds  himself 
under  the  necessity  of  capitulating  to  the  conqueror,  or  when 
sword-homage  is  done  to  a  sovereign,  in  which  cases  the  sword 
is  handed  to  the  acknowledged  superior),  i.  i3831-i3913— 
otherwise  thane  has  in  '  Heimskringla'  the  twofold  sense  of  a 
king's  subject  generally,  embracing  all  classes  of  society,  i63s.19 
ii.  24219.26  iii.  n9  2335  2420  24  i9i22  and  of  a  free  man, 
emphasized  in  the  alliterative  phrase:  thane  and  thrall  (pegn 


tha — thi]  Index  III  459 

ok  }>nell),  in  respect  of  general  risings  of  the  people  for  the 
defence  of  their  rights  and  liberties,  i.  3i624..25  ii.  4619  23313.14 
4i630 
THANE-GILD  (pegngildi),  the  fine  which,  in  the  case  of  man- 
slaughter, was  paid  to  the  king's  treasury  in  Norway,  ]iegn, 
consequently,  meaning  subject.  In  Iceland  such  fines,  were- 
gild  (manngjold,  ba^tr)  were  paid  to  the  relatives  of  the  slain 
according  to  an  elaborate  set  of  rules.  Hence  the  refusal  of 
the  Icelandic  Althing,  1027,  to  pay  weregilds  to  the  King  of 
Norway,  as  Olaf  the  Holy  requested,  which  would  have  meant 
subversion  of  the  constitution  of  the  commonwealth  and  sub- 
jection to  the  crown  of  Norway,  ii.  2  7510.1S 
THANE'S  WEREGILD,  ii.  423.^-42^  id. 
THING  (}>ing,  O.E.  >ing,  O.H.G".  dine,  Longob.  dinx  ;  origin 
doubtful).  An  assembly  existing  in  virtue  of  traditional 
custom  and  law,  for  the  purpose  of  discharging  public 
business,  chiefly  of  judicial  character,  within  a  certain  dis- 
trict (folkland),  or  within  a  complex  of  such  folklands. 
When  held  for  one  folkland,  it  was  a  fylkis-ping,  when  for  a 
complex  of  folklands  it  was  a  law-Thing,  q.v.  Both  kinds  of 
Things  had  their  fixed  meeting-places,  which,  however,  in 
the  case  of  the  folkland  Things  are  seldom  mentioned. 
For  the  sake  of  convenience,  we  group  the  larger  Things 
first  and  the  lesser  en  suite,  in  alphabetical  order  of  countries. 

Denmark. 
Thing  of  Vebiorg,  at  which,  according  to  ancient  custom, 
the   kings    of  Denmark    were  elected ;    as  were  Horda- 
Knut,  ii.  3i714.16  and  Magnus  the  Good,  iii.  2819.23cf.  923.r 
Other  Things  not  mentioned. 

England. 
Gyda,  d.  of  Olaf  Quaran,  summons  a  Thing  at  which  she 
chooses  for   husband  Olaf  Tryggvison,   ii.   264^,-2650,5 — 
Harald  Sigurdson  has  a  Thing  with  the  people  of  York,  iii. 

l69l9-27 

Faroe. 
Thing  of  Thorshaven,   ii.  30425-30530  306-30900 ;   others 
not  mentioned. 

Iceland. 
Althing  (aiding) :  the  legislative  assembly  and  supreme  court 
of  judicature  for  the  whole  country  during  the  common- 


460  Index  III  [thi 

wealth,  a.d.  930-1264,  was  held  at  Thingwall  (pingvellir), 
some  thirty  English  miles  east  of  Reykjavik,  ii.  24ils  It 
accepted  Christianity  as  state  religion,  a.d.  iooo,  i.  354-23-25 
— declined  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  overtures  for  a  political  union 
of  Iceland  with  Norway,  1024,  ii.  24214-24430  cf.  2453-24614 
— refused,  1027,  to  pay  to  K.  Olaf  any  scat-gift  or  taillages, 
such  as  his  ambassador  Gellir  Thorkelson  demanded  in 
his  name,  275^5    No  other  Things  mentioned. 

Norway. 
Borg-thing  (Borgarping),  held  at  Borg  or  Sarpsborg,  a  fort- 
ified market  town,  founded  by  Olaf  the  Holy  in  1017  on 
the  northern  side  of  the  great  river  Raumelf  by  the  Sarp 
fall  (ii.  7828-794);  it  was  instituted  by  Olaf  the  Holy  in 
1 02 1,  and"  was  made  up  of  the  four  folklands  of  Gren- 
land,  Westfold,  Vingulmark,  and  Ranrealm,  which  formerly 
had  belonged  to  Heidsaevisthing,  whence  it  is  called  Four- 
Folks'-Thing,  iii.  466,3 — here  '  land  was  sworn '  to  K.  Knut 
in  1028,  as  elsewhere,  ii.  353s.n — it  must  have  been  this 
Thing  which  Sigurd  Woolstring  called  together  '  through- 
out the  Wick'  to  deal  with  the  case  of  Sveinki,  iii.  2i429- 
2i715 — Ingi,  son  of  Harald  Gilli,  was  elected  king  here, 

H36,  347i7-2o 
Ere-  or  Eres'-Thing  (Eyraping),  held  on  the  shingly  plains 

on  the  western  side  of  the  mouth  of  the  river  Nid,  below 
the  ancient  Nidoyce.  It  is  chiefly  mentioned  in  connec- 
tion with  elections  of  the  kings  of  Norway  and  with  legal 
cases  immediately  concerning  imperial  and  crown  affairs. 
When  fully  convoked  it  represented  the  eight  folklands  of 
Thrandheim,  even  as  did  Frostathing  for  judicial  purposes. 
It  is  called  '  a  Thing  of  all  the  people '  (alsherjarping),  i. 
2994  because  in  virtue  of  its  purpose  and  functions,  its 
resolutions  carried  with  them  authority  over  the  whole  land. 
It  would  seem  that  this  was  the  Thing  summoned  to  elect 
K.  Hakon  the  Good,  934,  i.  i49i9-i5o13 16713.14 — here  Olaf 
Tryggvison  was  elected  king,  995,  299^ — Olaf  the  Holy, 
although  the  Thing  is  not  expressly  named,  1016,  ii.  6425.26 
— Knut  the  Mighty,  ii.  34829.31 — Magnus  the  Good,  1035, 
iii.  714.20 — Hakon  Magnusson,  1093,  iii.  2o510.l7 — at  this 
Thing,  "probably,  it  was  decided  that  K.  Sigurd  Haraldson 
should  share  equally  with  his  brother  Ingi  the  cost  of  de- 


thi]  Index  III  461 

fending  the  realm,  35913-36i21 — Eystein  Haraldson  elected 
king  here,  1142,  36S10.14 — Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  1161, 
43800.00 — Magnus  Erlingson,  1162,  44722.24 — Sigurd,  son 
of  K.  Sigurd  Haraldson,  1163,  45713.10 — here  kings'  suits 
and  crown  affairs  were  dealt  with,  iii.  275-2765  35913-36i2i 
46830-469^  _         _ 

Erneness-Thing  (Arnarnessjung),  in  Halogaland,  doubtful, 

iii-  27313 
Frosta-Thing  (Frostuping),  held  on  the  peninsula  of  Frosta 

in  Strindfolk,  on  the  southern  side  of  Thrandheim-bay. 
Besides  the  eight  folklands  of  Thrandheim,  its  judicial 
authority  also  extended  over  those  of  Naumdale,  North- 
mere,  and  Raumsdale,  which  complex  of  districts  gener- 
ally went  under  the  title  of  Frosta-Thing  laws  (Frostajnngs 
log),  iii.  2  7410.13 — the  law  code  of  Frostathing  framed  by 
Hakon  the  Good,  i.  i6o29.30 — convened  by  K.  Hakon  the 
Good  in  order  to  consider  his  project  of  converting  Nor- 
way to  Christianity,  i6430-i653  i6620-i68o9 — summoned  for 
the  same  purpose  by  Olaf  Tryggvison,  316^-3183 

Gula-Thing  (Gulajnng),  held  on  the  shore  of  the  bay  of 
Gula,  or  rather  of  its  off-shoot  inlet  Eyvind-wick,  which 
cut  into  the  southern  side  of  the  broad  peninsula  which 
bounds  from  the  south  the  mouth  of  Sognfirth.  It  repre- 
sented the  folklands  of  South  Mere,  Firthfolk,  Sognfolk, 
Valdres,  Haddingdale,  Hordfolk,  Rogaland,  and  Agdir ; 
and  all  these  districts,  when  collectively  spoken  of,  went 
under  the  territorial  designation  of  Gula-Thing  laws  (parts) 
(Gulajjings  log),  iii.  20717.1S — the  law  code  of  Gula  Thing 
framed  by  Hakon  the  Good,  i.  i6o2V.2S — K.  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison and  the  family  of  Hordakari  come  to  terms  at  Gula 
Thing  on  the  adoption  of  Christianity  by  the  Hordlanders, 
i-  3°3-24"3°4i3  3°63-3-2 — K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer's  suit 
against  Sigurd  Ranison  taken  to  Gula  Thing,  iii.  274^ 

Heids^evis-Thing  (HerSsasvisJnng,  the  Thing  beside  the 
'  sea '  (lake)  of  Heathmark,  i.e.,  the  lake  Miors),  held,  as 
Snorri  gives  to  understand,  up  to  the  days  of  Olaf  the 
Holy  at  a  place  different  from  that  at  which  '  ever  since  ' 
(ii.  2io15.]Y)'it  has  been  holden,'  which  was  Eid,  now 
Eidsvold,  a  short  distance  south  of  the  Miors,  on  the 
western  side  of  its  river  outlet,  the  Yerma  (Vormen).    It 


462  Index  III  [thi 

represented  the  folklands  of  Gudbrandsdale,  Eastern-Dales, 
Heathmark,  Hadaland,  Raumrealm  and,  until  Borg-Thing 
was  established,  Grenland,  Westfold,  Vingulmark,  and 
Ranrealm  besides.  The  body  of  the  laws  of  this  Thing 
was  first  framed  by  Halfdan  the  Black,  i.  8429-852 — such, 
at  least,  Snorri  gives  to  understand  is  his  meaning,  when 
he  says  that  K.   Halfdan   'set  forth    the  laws  of'  this 

.  Thing,  'as  it  is  written  afore,'  i6o30.32 — K.  Olaf  the  Holy 
revised,  in  1021,  the  constitution  of  this  Thing,  and  sliced 
out  of  it  the  four  folklands  out  of  which  Borg-Thing  was 
created,  ii.  2io15.21 — this  probably  was  the  'Thing  in  the 
south-country '  at  which  Harald  Hairfair  promulgated  the 
division  of  the  realm  among  his  sons,  i.  i3iS-i5 

Howe-Thing  (Haugajring),  in  Tunsberg,  a  provincial  or  folk- 
land  Thing  for  Westfold.  It  was  held  on  a  hillrise  imme- 
diately to  the  east  of  the  town,  and  probably  derived  its 
name  from  the  howes  which  were  raised  there  over  Olaf 
and  Sigrod,  Harald's  sons,  whom  their  brother  Eric  slew  (i. 
i4420.26).  This  seems  to  have  been  the  Thing  summoned 
by  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  998  for  the  purpose  of  dealing  with 
wizardry,  i.  3i218.22 — here,  in  1 130,  Harald  Gilli  was 
elected  king  over  half  the  land,  iii.  31305-3147 — at  this 
Thing,  it  would  seem,  Erling  Askew  carried  through  a 
solemn  judgment  in  1162,  which  condemned  Sigurd  of 
Reyr  and  his  followers  to  the  devil,  44802-4505 — sum- 
moned, in  vain,  by  K.  Valdimar  of  Denmark,  1165  (with 
a  view  to  being  elected  King  of  Norway),  47os.10 

Steig-Thing  (Steigar-Jnng),  the  Thing  for  Halogaland,  is 
probably  meant  by  that  Thing  which  Olaf  the  Holy's  com- 
missary called  in  Halogaland  for  a  general  war-muster,  ii. 
28718-288s 

Many  Things  are  mentioned  as  having  been  convened 
and  held  in  this  or  that  folkland,  without  the  meeting-place 
being  mentioned.  Some  of  these  may  even  have  been  one 
or  the  other  of  those  already  mentioned;  or,  like  Howe- 
Thing,  have  been  Folkland  Things  or  even  Things  of  lesser 
description,  such  as  were  Half-Things  (halfu-p.),  Farthing 
Things  (fj6r3ungs-J?.),  Riding-Things  (j)ri:3jungs-)\),  i.e., 
Things  for  one  half,  one  fourth,  one  third  of  a  Folkland 
which,  no  doubt,  had  their  own  appointed  meeting-places. 


thi]  Index  III  463 

Of  these  non-localized  Things  the  following  were  concerned 
with : 

Election  of  Kings  :  Things  about  the  Uplands  elect  Hakon 
the  Good,  i.  1513.7 — in  response  to  Gudrod  Ericson's  re- 
quest to  be  received  as  king  the  '  bonders '  of  the  Wick 
convene  a  Thing  to  elect  him  (vi^taka  =  acceptance,  re- 
ception, not  guesting),  3426.19 — the  Upland  kings  resolve 
at  a  Thing  in  Hadaland  to  support  Olaf  Haraldson's  claim 
to  the  crown,  ii.  4427-459  104^ — he  is  elected  at  Things  in 
the  Wick,  6415.17  7526.30 — at  Things  in  Upper  Thrandheim, 
678.u — at  Things  in  Ranrealm,  763-7 7S  16-7825 — at  every 
Thing  throughout  Naumdale,  19029-191! — Knut  the  Mighty 
is  elected  at  Things  about  Agdir,  348s.12 — at  Things  in 
every  Folkland  on  his  way  north  to  Thrandheim,  3535.s 
cf.  Borg-Thing  and  Ere-Thing — Harald  Hardredy  chosen 
king  at  Things  in  every  Folkland  of  Norway,  iii.  9?30-93o — 
Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  was  elected  king  at  a  Thing  in  Hord- 
land,  3445.9 — Magnus  Erlingson  elected  king  at  a  Thing  in 
Oslo,  which  may  have  gone  under  the  name  of  Oslo-Thing, 
and  have  been  the  Folkland-Thing  for  Vingulmark,  4377.10 
The  following  Things  are  mentioned  as  dealing  with  : 

Christianity.  A  Thing  in  Thrandheim  called  by  Hakon 
the  Good,  which,  probably,  was  a  Folkland  Thing,  as  the 
bonders  referred  the  business  to  the  Lawthing  of  Frosta, 
i.  i6430-i653 — Things  called  by  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  the 
Wick  and  Agdir,  i.  30316.23 — in  Rogaland,  304^-30507 — at 
Dragseid  in  Southmere,  308^-309^ — at  Mere  in  Upper- 
Thrandheim,  31905-32 118 — about  Halogaland,  3280,3-3290 
— summoned  by  Olaf  the  Holy  in  every  Folkland  from 
Thrandheim  south  to  Kormt  in  Rogaland,  ii.  731(3-743 — 
about  Naumdale,  i9o2G-i9i5 — in  every  Thing-round  in 
Halogaland,  i9212.u — in  Upper-Thrandheim,  1970,3-198., 
cf.  19623-19703— in  Upper  Gudbrandsdale,  2oos.1(j — Gud- 
brand  a-Dales  calls  his  people  to  a  Thing  to  oppose  Olaf 
the  Holy's  missionary  progress,  2oi2.27 — The  Dales'  men 
blow  together  a  Thing  to  the  same  purpose,  203.33-2093 — 
K.  Olaf  calls  a  Thing  at  Vang  in  Vors,  231.^-232.1 — in 
Valdres,  232^-234., — he  calls  Things  to  mend  the  religious 
state  of  the  people,  as  he  proceeds  south  along  the  land 
in  1024,  24i3.c 


464  Index  III  [thi 

Things  for  various  purposes: 

Harald  Hairfair  calls  a  Thing  to  make  Rolf  Wend-a-foot 
outlaw  for  all  Norway,  i.  n85.7 — Harald  Greycloak  sum- 
mons the  bonders  to  a  Thing  in  Vors.  As  Vors  formed 
one  of  the  four  quarters  of  Hordland,  this  must  have  been 
a  Quarter-Thing,  2i61.5 — Olaf  the  Swede's  tax-gatherers 
summon  bonders  to  sundry  Things,  ii.  69^-7 o15 — Biorn  the 
Marshal  was  the  king's  (Olaf  the  Holy's)  spokesman  at 
Things,  8831.33 — Thing  called  by  a  king's  steward  to  inquire 
into  suspected  cases  of  cattle  lifting,  338.24-33919 — Svein 
Alfiva's  son  calls  out  a  general  muster  at  a  Thing  in  Hord- 
land, iii.  83.24 — Einar  Thambarskelfir  advocates  at  Things 
the  cause  of  the  '  bonders  '  against  the  aggressiveness  of 
the  king,  io722-io85  cf.  io93-no2 — Finn  Arnison  calls 
a  Thing  of  the  citizens  of  Nidoyce  in  order  to  allay  re- 
bellious commotion  against  K.  Harald  Hardredy  for  the 
slaughter  of  Einar  Thambarskelfir,  H33.1S — Skuli  the 
King's  Fosterer  was  Olaf  the  Quiet's  spokesman  at  Things, 
i8319.21 — Gregory  Dayson  calls  a  Thing  at  Kings'  Rock, 
399o4-4oo4 — Hakon  Shoulderbroad  at  a  Thing  at  Kings' 
Rock,  4oo14.16 — Erling  Askew  calls  a  Thing  in  Hising,  at 
which  he  punishes  with  heavy  penalties  disloyalty  to  his 
son,  459ir-46on 

Arrow-Thing  (orvarjnng),  a  Thing  (court)  summoned  to- 
gether by  the  king  for  inquiring  into,  and  passing  sentence 
in,  cases  of  manslaughter  committed  on  subjects  in  his 
personal  service  (bodyguards,  stewards,  guests,  etc.),  ii. 
27ic,-27311  28i18.o2 — the  case  here  in  question  was  the 
slaying  of  Thoralf  of  Dimon,  in  Faroe,  who  was  of  the 
king's  bodyguard,  2  4714.16 — and  of  Thorgeir,  a  king's 
steward,  2  7922.23 

House-Thing,  Husting  (hushing),  an  assembly  called  to- 
gether by  the  blowing  of  a  trumpet,  instead  of  sending  out 
summons  (JnngboS),  to  more  or  less  extended  countrysides, 
as  was  the  general  custom  in  the  case  of  other  Things. 
The  attendance  at  such  a  Thing  was  chiefly  confined  to 
the  leader's  or  commander's  following.  Generally  this 
Thing  had  to  deal  with  matters  of  sudden  emergency,  and 
partook  more  or  less  of  the  character  of  a  council  of  war. 
Olaf  Tryggvison  '  let  blow  up  for  a  House-Thing  at  Ladir 


THl] 


Index  III  465 


and  all  his  men  went  from  the  ships  ...  to  the  Thin**  ' 
in  order  to  over-awe  refractory  heathens,  i.  31 8.^-3  iq22-1 
Olaf  the  Holy  holds  a  House-Thing  with  his  host  "to  decide 
on  war  or  peace  with  Sweden,  in  consequence  of  igno- 
minious treatment  by  the  Swedish  king,  ii.  14225-143 

Finn  Arnison  '  let  blow  all  the  mustered  host  to  a  House- 
Thing  '  at  Vagar  in  Halogaland,  in  order  to  inspect 
weapons  and  ransack  the  muster  roll  of  a  force  called  out 
ii.  28810.13— K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  House-Things  in  the  Her- 
isles,  1027,  302.25-303s— K.  Onund  of  Sweden  blows  to  a 
House-Thing  at  Barwick  to  announce  the  termination  of 
the  alliance  with  Olaf  the  Holy  (1028),  3245-325^— at 
another  House-Thing  the  parting  of  the  respective  forces 

of  Sweden  and  Norway  was  decided  upon,  32708-328. 

Olaf  the  Holy  takes  council  at  meetings  with  his  body- 
guard, and  at  Hustings  with  the  whole  host  (of  his  remain- 
ing followers),  concerning  K.  Knut's  threatened  invasion 
of  Norway,  346.^-3473— Bishop  Sigurd's  harangue  at  a 
House-Thing  against  Olaf  the  Holy,  4 1 83-4  iq94— Magnus 
the  Good  blows  his  host  to  a  Thing  (which  must  have  been 
a  House-Thing)  to  announce  his  partition  of  the  kingdom 
in  favour  of  K.  Har.  Sigurdson,  iii.  84oi.0(.— K.  Har.  Sigurd- 
son  has  a  Thing  (House-Thing)  with  his  host  in  Denmark 
after  the  death  of  Magnus  the  Good,  proposing  to  march 
to  Vebiorg  and  have  himself  elected  there  K.  of  Denmark, 
923-25— K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  calls  a  Thing  of  the  men 
on  board  his  ships  lying  by  the  Holm  in  Thrandheim-firth, 
announcing  his  intention  to  fight  with  his  brother  Eystein 
next  morning,  27  60.10—K.  Ingi  Haraldson  lets  blow  for 
a  Thing  (House-Thing)  in  the  Holme  by  Biorgvin,  where 
he  exposes  the  plot  of  his  brothers  to  depose  him,  38610- 
387s— K.  Eystein  Haraldson  holds  a  Husting  of  his  host 
in  Graemngsound  with  a  view  to  preparing  for  battle  with 
his  brother  Ingi,  39323-3942— K.  Ingi  lets  blow  all  his  host 
for  a  Husting  in  the  isle  of  Hising  to  concert  plans  for 
an  impending  battle  with  Hakon  Shoulderbroad,  404^ 
4°61(  —  Erling  Askew  has  the  king's  trumpet  blown,  and 
the  host  he  commanded  summoned  to  a  Husting,  where 
measures  were  taken  for  an  attack  on  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad,  4434.15 
vi.  hh 


466  Index  III  [thi 

Rogation-days'  Thing,  see  Ganging-days'  Thing,  p.  339. 

Orkney. 
Thing  summoned  by  Earl  Einar  Wrongmouth,  probably 
at   jringavollr    (Dingwall),   in    Mainland,    ii.  i7219-i736 — 
Things  on  disputed  lordship  over  Orkney,  1793 

Sweden. 

Upsala-Thing  (Uppsalajung),  a  general  parliament  for  all 
Swedes,  held  about  midwinter,  i.  5510.n  ii-  9927-32 — e^se" 
where  Snorri  fixes  the  time  of  its  session  to  the  month  of 
Goe  {i.e.,  Feb.  8-14  to  March  9-15,  old  style),  in26-ii22 
mi — famous  proceedings  at,  in  1019,  n83-i2222  13927.30 
—alluded  to  as  All-Folks'  Thing  (alsherjarjnng),  158^  cf. 
i6o6.7 

Thing  of  Muli  (Mtilajung),  according  to  the  statement  put 
in  Lawman  Thorgnyr's  mouth,  this  Thing  was,  once  upon  a 
time,  the  scene  of  the  drowning  of  five  kings  in  a  ditch  by 
revolted  subjects,  ii.  i2i28.32 — modern  research  has  failed 
to  verify  this  name  and  locality;  the  prevailing  opinion  in- 
clines to  take  '  Miila '  for  a  mistake  for  '  Mora '  (pron. 
Moora  [00  =  00  in  fool]),  a  place  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Upsala,  where  of  old  it  was  customary  to  elect  Swedish 
kings. 

Thing  of  Escheat  (refsi-Jring,  so  also  01.  s.  helga,  1853, 
p.  8810  and  A.M.  75,  40  and  A.M.  325,  40,  while  the  Flat, 
b.  ii.  i72j  has  refsingar-ping,  A.M.  61  F°  =  Fms.,  iv.  2o614 
refsing,  which  is  an  obvious  blunder.  The  Flat.  b.  reading 
must  be  regarded  as  the  genuine  as  it  closely  reproduces 
the  Swedish  name  of  the  Thing  in  question,  which  was 
raefsinga-Jnng),  'a  Thing  held  for  the  purpose  of  bringing 
criminals  to  punishment;  by  this  name  was  called  a  Thing 
which  was  held  twice  a  year  in  West-Gautland,  and  where, 
probably,  the  judge  of  the  supreme  court  of  the  land  exe- 
cuted judgment  on  behalf  of  the  king.' — Schlyter,  '  Gloss, 
ad  Cor.  jur.  Sveo.-Goth.,'  5193.  The  Thing  in  question 
could  hardly  have  been  convened  within  the  sphere  of  the 
laws  of  Upland  or  Swede-realm  proper,  to  the  law-code  of 
which  the  term  rsefsinga-Jung  is  unknown.  It  seems  prob- 
able from  the  question  put  to  Lawman  Emund  of  West- 
Gautland  by  Freywith,  ii.  1 6425.27 :  '  What  mind  have  ye 
hereover  if  Olaf  Ericson  be  bereft  of  life,  etc.,'  that  a 


thi — tho]  Index  III  467 

nefsinga-bing  had  been  summoned  for  West-Gautland, 
where  the  trade  of  the  people  suffered  ruinous  losses  from 
K.  Olaf's  obstinacy,  for  the  purpose  of  declaring  him  of 
forfeit  life  and  realm.  That  a  war-arrow  was  employed  to 
accompany  the  summons  to  this  Thing  shows  that  the  in- 
tention was  to  make  a  formal  declaration  of  revolt.  Thing 
of  Escheat  is  perhaps  not  a  satisfactory  rendering  of  '  refsi- 
bing,'  but  it  would  be  difficult  to  find  an  English  equivalent 
for  it,  i62s.10 

In  Jamtland,  under  Swedish  dominion,  mention  is  made 
of  a  Thing  summoned  for  the  purpose  of  answering  Olaf 
the  Holy's  claim  to  taxes  from  that  province,  but  no  place 
is  mentioned,  ii.  29431-29525 — revolutionary  bonders  hold 
Things  for  the  purpose  of  deposing  K.  Olaf  of  Sweden, 
locality  not  stated,  i6319.21 — discontented  Gautlanders  con- 
vene a  Thing  (perhaps  at  Skara)  at  which  they  delegate 
Lawman  Emund  to  plead  their  cause  at  the  Swedish  court 
at  Upsala,  i55n.31 — Queen  Astrid  convenes  a  Thing  at 
Hangrar,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Sigtuna,  which  may 
have  been  an  official  meeting-place  for  a  provincial  as- 
sembly, iii.  4io-535 

Thingbidding  (bingboS),  a  halberd-fashioned  instrument 
cut  out  of  wood,  to  which  was  attached  a  summons  to  the 
dwellers  of  the  district  to  meet  in  a  public  assembly. 
Hence  the  phrase  'to  shear  up  a  Th.'  (skera  upp  b.)  =to 
cut  out,  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  through  a  countryside 
according  to  a  defined  route  (bo^lertS)  this  wooden  em- 
blem of  authority,  ii.  2Oo9.10  232.30  2955 

Thixghouse  (binghus),  see  Council-chamber,  p.  320. 

Thingland  (bingha),  the  territory  over  which  the  authority 
of  a  Thing  established  by  custom  or  law  extended,  ii.  3S81 

Thingmen,  1.  (bingamenn,  jnngamannalrS),  the  corps  of 
the  body-guard  of  the  Danish  kings  in  England,  renowned 
for  valour,  ii.  i627  i728  2633  iii.  i6217  26  17301 — 2.  (bing- 
menn),  franchized  citizens,  bonders,  24l7 

Thingmote  (bingm6t),  the   assembly  met  at  a  Thing,   iii. 

2I5l6 

THORP  (borp),  a  village,  iii.  259,. 

THORP-DWELLER   (borpari),    a   villager,   villain,   peasant. 
King  Olaf's  statement  that  this  class  of  men  '  shall  know 


468  Index  III  [thr — tin 

what  is  to  do  both  in  Skaney  and  Halland,'  refers  to  the 
havoc  wrought  by  plunder  and  destruction  of  property  during 
the  past  summer,  the  repairing  of  which  would  give  the  land 
population  enough  to  do  at  home  and  prevent  it  answering 
K.  Knut's  call  to  arms,  ii.  325^ 
THRALL  (J>nell,  man),  FIELD-THRALL  (verk-Jraell),  a  slave, 
a  person  deprived  of  the  privileges  of  free  men,  and  treated 
as  a  piece  of  saleable  chattel,  but,  in  the  case  of  Norway  and 
Sweden,  never  occupying  the  position  of  a  serf,  i.  3216  44^ 
17.10  2  2820.22  2  2Q12  ii.  1 6ou— thralls  alluded  to  as  being  sacri- 
ficed at  blood-offerings,  i.  3193.4 — thrall  and  beasts  (man  ok 
bu),  a  phrase  indicative  of  clean  sweep  in  plundering  raids,  i. 
2763.3 — Olaf  the  Holy  had  many  slaves  in  his  household,  ii. 
68a.o — Erling  Skialgson's  wise  and  humane  treatment  of  his 
slaves  laid  great  stress  upon  as  something  out  of  the  common, 
ii.  259.21 — his  thralls,  circumventing  a  royal  ordinance,  sell  to 
Asbiorn,  Erling's  nephew,  a  shipload  of  corn  and  malt,  2i829- 
2ig3 — the  slave  being  the  irresponsible  instrument  of  his 
master  was  entrusted  with  the  execution  of  tasks  detested  by 
free  men;  they  were  the  king's  executioners,  ii.  2  2628.29  iii. 
2i2l7.20 — executors  of  torture,  32  323.26 — performers  of  other 
hateful  business,  i.  2Q29.25   293^   29420 — hence  the  oppro- 
brious term,  'king's  thralls1  (konungs  }>raelar)  for  free  men  who 
yielded  up  to  the  king  their  inherited  traditional  privileges, 
i.  ioi28  or  who  did  steward's  service  under  him,  ii.  2i813 
2315  2~7922 — in  preference  to  a  thrall  offered  them  for  king 
by  Eystein  the  Evil,  the  Thrandheimers  prefer  his  dog  for 
the  post,  i.  i6i23.28 
THRALL-BORN  "(J?rselborinn),  of  slave  descent,  of  one  so 
born  nothing  much  could  be  expected,  i.  i232.4 — royal  offi- 
cials so  born  held  in  the  greatest  contempt,  ii.  2i324.28 
THRALL-CHEAPING   (mansal),   slave-trade    in    vogue    in 

Wendland,  i.  2295.16  <,8-23o9  3oo15-3oi5 
THRONG-WINTER  (miigavetr),  the  winter  1134-35.  when 
men  flocked  from  the  standard  of  Magnus  the  Blind  in  crowds 
(mugar)  to  that  of  Harald  Gilli,  iii.  32i29  cf.  3229.10 
TIME-KEEPING:  Sigurd,  son  of  Red,  possesses  the  secret 
art  of  knowing  the  hours  of  day  and  night,  though  no  heavenly 
luminary  be  seen,  ii.  34on.13 
TINDER  (tundr),  lighted  by  hallowed  fire  and  attached  to  the 


tin — tor]  Index  III  469 

point  of  an  arrow  avails  to  kill  a  wizard  who  was  proof  to  all 
other  weapons,  iii.  330^-3313 

TINDERBOX  (eldvirki,  lit.  firework),  made  of  walnut-shell, 
with  touchwood  inside  and  outwardly  done  about  with  wax' 
iii.  36421.23 

TITHE  (tiund),  K.  Sigurd  the  Crusader  swears  in  Jerusalem 
to  introduce  tithes  in  Norway,  iii.  257,^ — and  carries  out 
his  oath,  2  787.8 

TOFT  (topt),  a  measured-off  piece  of  ground  for  a  house  to  be 
built  on,  i.  32i25  ii.  6431  793 

TOKEN  (jartegn),  an  object  passing  between  sender  and  re- 
ceiver of  such  a  nature  that  the  latter  recognizes  it  as  a 
truthful  corroboration  of  the  oral  message  accompanying  it, 
i.  i5o.26  ii.  89l3  923  95ir  27  135.^  r3612  i5i31  i52o  237^  29217 
3°426  3°54  3894— evidence,  1.  275,  ii.  45933  "*•  I38*> 

TONGS  (tong),  gripping  tongs  (spenni-tong),  instrument  used 
in  surgery,  ii.  4424  9  16 

TOOTH  (tonn),  in  the  head  of  a  dead  man,  which  must  have 
been  a  dog-tooth,  piercing  through  the  clothes  and  scratching 
the  skin  of  a  living  person,  causes  death,  i.  n624.28 

TORMENTS,  and  other  kindred  methods  of  punishment,  are 
particularly  noticeable  as  means  employed  for  the  conversion 
of  heathens  to  Christianity.  Olaf  Tryggvison  mishandled 
sorely  those  who  gainsaid  him  in  the  matter,  some  he  slew, 
some  he  maimed,  some  he  drove  away  from  the  land,  i.  303,.- 
—Queen  Sigrid  the  Haughty  he  smites  in  the  face  and  treats 
with  abusive  language,  3 126.10— heathen  wizards  he  invites  to 
a  banquet,  makes  them  drunk,  and  then  burns  them  alive  in 
the  banqueting  hall,  312,33-3133-*- Eyvind  Well-spring  and 
his  company  he  ties  to  a  rock  to  be  engulfed  by  the  tide, 
3I32s_3I42o — ne  threatens  to  make  human  sacrifice  of  the 
best  men  in  Thrandheim  if  they  refuse  conversion,  3i831- 
3I0i2 — Eyvind  Rent-cheek  he  puts  to  death  by  roasting  his 
abdomen  with  a  hand-basin  full  of  glowing  coals,  3289.20 — 
on  Thorir  Hart  the  king  set  his  dog  Vigi  and  then  slew  him, 
33°u-22~  Raud  the  Red  he  tied  face  upmost  to  a  beam, 
gagged  him,  and  forced  a  snake  down  his  throat,  etc.,  33230- 
333io — marvellous  pains  he  laid  upon  his  foes,  etc.,  341.5.,, — 
Olaf  the  Holy's  methods  followed  a  similar  course:  some  he 
drove  away  from  the  land,  some  he  let  maim  of  hand  or  foot, 


470  Index  III  [rou — tra 

or  sting  their  eyes  out,  some  he  let  hang  or  hew  down,  and 
none  did  he  let  go  unpunished  who  would  not  serve  God,  ii. 
io2n.]5 — these  proceedings  caused  early  his  unpopularity, 
io320.27 — Olvir  of  Eggja,  with  very  many  men,  he  slew  for 
sacrificing  to  heathen  gods,  other  men  he  put  in  irons,  and 
all  the  feast-arrayal  at  Mere  he  confiscated,  i9715.oS — at  Lesiar 
and  Dofrar  the  best  men  were  laid  hands  on  and  given  the 
choice  of  life  or  death,  according  as  they  should  accept  con- 
version or  not,  i9918.24 — the  men  of  Vagi,  Loar,  and  Hedale 
he  gave  the  choice  between  fighting  and  abiding  fire  at  his 
hand  or  turning  Christians,  20os.14 — obeying  the  king's  sum- 
mons to  meet  him  at  a  Thing,  the  bonders  find  that  in  the 
course  of  the  night  the  king  has  taken  care  to  scuttle  the 
boats  of  those  who  came  by  water,  and  to  drive  away  the 
yoke  beasts  of  those  who  came  by  land,  in  order  to  make 
escape  impossible  and  conversion  the  surer,  2o612.16  2o8lHi — 
in  Valdres  he  converted  the  people  by  burning  and  plunder- 
ing their  dwellings  while  they  were  away  from  home  at  a 
Thing  he  had  summoned  them  to,  233^.33 — K.  Olaf's  own 
view  of  his  methods  of  enforcing  and  maintaining  Christianity, 
40232-4037 — torments  in  other  cases:  Turf-Einar's  excrucia- 
tion of  Halfdan  High-Leg,  i.  i266.n — Olaf  the  Holy's  punish- 
ments for  treason :  blinding,  cutting  out  the  tongue,  maiming, 
ii.  io820.22  27  i09n — putting  to  death  Thorir  and  Griotgarth, 
sons  of  Olvir,  34230-34324  344-3454 — Thora,  the  widow  of 
K.  Magnus  Barefoot,  cuts  out  the  tongue  of  a  youth  for 
tasting  a  morsel  of  her  food,  iii.  3O210.15 — horrible  mutilation 
of  Magnus  the  Blind,  32323.20 — and  tormenting  unto  death 
of  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon,  36612.23 — and  Richard  the  priest, 

38224"383i2 
TOUCH-WOOD  (fnjoskr),  for  lighting  fire  kept  in  a  walnut 

shell  done  about  with  wax,  iii.  36433 
TOWN-BOON  (Bajjarbot),  the  great  bell  of  the  Turn-about 

Drinking  Gild  in  Nidoyce,  iii.  i9222 
TRADE  (kaupferSir)  to  Russia  the  means  of  obtaining  through 

the  market  of  Holmgarth  costly  stuffs,  furs,  and  table  service 

fit  for  a  king's  palace,  ii.  8io7-82O0 
TRADE  PARTNERSHIP  (felag),"  Hall  Thorarinson's,  Gudleik 

the  Garthrealmer's,  Karli  of  Longile's  with  K.  Olaf  the  Holy, 

i.  620.21  ii.  8i23-8229  2583.^ 


tra — twe]  Index  III  47 1 

TRAP  (gildra),  for  mice,  iii.  2i75 

TRAPEZA,  see  under  House. 

TREATIES:  Kings  Magnus  the  Good  and  Hordaknut  swear 
with  twelve  the  best  men  of  either  realm,  to  a  treaty  providing 
that  the  realm  of  him  who  dies  first,  leaving  no  male  issue, 
shall  be  the  survivor's  lawful  inheritance,  iii.  i  i,M„ — after  the 
battle  of  Niz  Harald  Sigurdson  and  Svein  Wolfson  come  to 
terms  on  a  treaty  of  peace  to  last  while  both  lived,  i48.24- 
i49s — Magnus  Barefoot's  treaty  with  Malcolm,  K.  of  Scotland, 
dishonestly  interpreted  by  the  former,  2  2431-2  25r, — treaty 
between  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  and  Harald  Gilli,  respecting 
the  latter's  right  to  succession  in  Norway,  2960.7  3i44.7 — 
treaty  between  Waldemar  of  Denmark  and  Erling  Askew, 
438313  465-46638 

TRENCHER-SWAINS  (skutilsveinar),  men-in-waiting  at  the 
king's  table,  iii.  i938  2\Atl 

TRIBUTE  (gjald),  paid  by  the  people  of  Gotland  to  Olaf  the 
Holy  as  sea-king,  ii.  8.,-  g0  ^  2 

TROLL-QUEAN,  TROLL-WIFE  (trollkona),  a  man-devour- 
ing ogress,  ii.  3oo27-3oi18  iii.  i6326.31  i6419— a  giantess,  in 
poet,  kennings  (flagS),  i8i31  (gygr),  193^ 

TROLLS  (troll),  evil  beings,  regarded  as  supernatural  agencies 
of  heathenism,  annoy  Olaf  Tryggvison  in  his  missionary 
journey  to  Halogaland,  i.  334^3 — expelled  by  Olaf  the  Holy's 
prayers  from  their  old  haunts  at  the  mountain  bothies  of  the 
Graenings,  ii.  36612.14  24-30 

TRUMPET  (littSr),  see  Horn. 

TUB  (ker),  for  bathing  purposes,  tilted  over  (tjaldat  yfir),  iii. 
2839 

TUN  (tunna),  a  large  barrel  so  made  as  at  one  end  to  contain 
drink  between  two  bottoms  a  little  apart,  the  body  of  it  being 
stuffed  full  of  costly  furs,  ii.  289^  29i16.20 

TURF  (torf),  used  for  fuel  in  Orkney  first  at  the  instance  of 
Earl  Turf-Einar,  i.  i2  314r 

TURN-ABOUT  DRINKINGS  (hvirfings-drykkjur),  see  Gilds. 

TWELVE  (t61f),  a  frequently  recurring  number  in  various  con- 
nections. Twelve  ruled  supreme  as  priests  and  judges  in 
Odin's  city,  Asgarth,  i.  I216_19 — Svegdir  goes  with  twelve  men 
to  seek  Godhome  and  Odin  the  Old,  2503.05 — twelve  chiefs, 
according  to  the  best  MS.,  the  '  Kringla,'  were  at  the  head  of 


472  Index  III  [tyn — vag 

heathen  religious  rites  at  Mere  in  Upper-Thrandheim,,  a.d. 
998  (Worm,  Styrkar,  Kar,  Asbiorn,  Thorberg,  Worm  of  Lioxa, 
Haldor  + other  five;  our  text  makes  one  person  of  Asbiorn 
and  Thorberg),  i.  3 1 93.9 — three-and-twenty  years  later,  Thorald 
informs  Olaf  the  Holy  that  twelve  men  have  charge  of  the 
same  affairs  up  at  Mere,  ii.  i9632.33 — twelve  men  always  sat 
in  council  and  judgment  with  the  King  of  Sweden  (Olaf 
Ericson),  isg^c, — Gudbrand-a-Dales,  the  greatest  heathen 
magnate  of  Gudbrandsdale  and  adjacent  parts,  delegates 
twelve  men  to  accompany  his  son  to  Olaf  the  Holy  in  order 
to  arrange  for  a  Thing  on  the  religious  question  of  the  hour, 
2O333-2O40 — Olaf  the  Holy's  tax-gathering  missions  to  Jamt- 
land,  each  consisting  of  twelve  men,  8o15  29429.30 — twelve  the 
best  men  of  Norway  and  Denmark  respectively  swear  to 
maintaining  the  treaty  of  peace  made  between  Magnus  the 
Good  and  Hordaknut,  iii.  1 12.12 — Erling  Askew  with  the  King 
and  twelve  landed  men  swears  on  the  day  his  son  was  crowned 
king  to  keep  the  law  of  the  land,  iii.  46423.24 

TYNE  (tyna),  to  lose,  iii.  43623 

UGSOME  (illilegr),  savage,  ii.  2635 

UNGILDSOME  (ligildr),  a  person  who  has  committed  such 
crimes  as  to  forfeit  the  right  to  weregild  when  slain,  iii. 

46923.34 

UPLAND  LAW  (upplenzk  log),  see  Law. 

UPSALA  LAW  (Upsala  log),  see  Law. 

UPSALA  THING,  see  Thing. 

UPSALA  WEALTH  (Uppsala  au^r),  began  by  Frey  endowing 
the  temple  he  had  reared  there  with  all  his  property,  real  and 
personal,  i.  222S-23X  262S — 'so  call  the  Swedes  the  king's 
wealth,'  i.e.,  the  public  treasury,  ref.  to  the  days  of  K.  Olaf 
the  Swede,  ii.  ii232.33 

VEERINGS  (Vseringjar),  bodyguard  of  Byzantine  emperors; 
their  manner  of  keeping  watch  at  night  when  doing  the  duty 
of  bodyguard  to  the  emperor  in  a  campaign,  iii.  42825.29 — 
Olaf's  church  in  Constantinople  upheld  by  the  Vserings, 
429i7-20  43 x  1-5 — miraculous  victory  won  by  the  Vserings  over 
the  Wallachians  on  the  fields  of  Pezina,  429^-431^— nick- 
named by  the  Greeks  the  emperor's  'wine-skins,'  43o21.22 

VAGAR-FLEET  (Vagafioti),  the  fleet  of  merchant  vessels" which, 
in  the  season,  assembled  in  the  harbour  of  Vagar  on  the 


val — vie]  Index  III  473 

south-eastern  side  of  Vagey,  in  the  Lofoden  group,  for  the 
yearly  fishmarket,  ii.  23S21 

VALHALL  (Valholl),  Odin's  great  hall  into  which  he  gathered 
those  of  the  fallen  in  battle  whom  his  Valkyrjur  deemed 
worthy  of  election  to  the  state  of  Einherjar,  i.  iSq10  191^ 

VALKYR  (Valkyrja,  from  valr,  a  collective  term  for  all  the 
fallen  in  battle,  meaning  literally,  '  the  choice,'  '  the  chosen 
ones,'  by  Odin  as  Valfo^r,  father,  lord  of  the  elect,  the  slain 
host,  and  kyrja,  female  chooser — kyr-  from  kur-  the  stem  of 
the  plur.  pret.  of  kjdsa,  to  choose).  Laterally,  therefore,  a 
Valkyrja  is  the  chooser  of  the  chosen  ones.  There  is  probably 
good  reason  for  the  tautology  apparently  involved  in  the 
name.  Not  all  who  fell  in  battle  were  entitled  to  the  glorious 
state  of  the  Einherjar;  to  choose  such  as  were  entitled  thereto 
seems  to  have  been  the  Valkyrjas'  business,  and  in  respect 
of  the  discrimination  they  had  to  exercise,  the  poet  acknow- 
ledges that  'wise  ways  they  had'  (hyggilega  letu).  With 
helmet  on  head,  spear  in  hand  and  a  shield  before  them, 
they  performed  their  lord's  errands  on  horseback,  riding 
through  the  air,  i.  i9i13.04 

VAT  (ker),  for  mead,  many  ells  high,  at  the  royal  hall  of 
Hleithra  in  Denmark,  in  which  K.  Fiolnir  was  drowned,  i. 
2429-2512 — the  statement  that  this  vat  was  'okat  meS  storum 
timbrstokkum '  must  be  understood  to  mean  what  the  trans- 
lation says,  seeing  that  oki,  pi.  okar,  are  to  this  day,  in  the 
domestic  language  of  Iceland,  the  cross-fitted  beams  on  which 
stand  large  vats  containing  liquids,  the  okar  serving  to  protect 
the  bottom  of  them  from  rotting  by  standing  in  a  damp  soil. 

VENDETTA.  The  Icelander  Thormod,  doing  duty  on  board 
Magnus  Haraldson's  ship  in  the  Vener  expedition,  1064,  on 
hearing  casually  mentioned  the  name  of  Hall  '  Kodran's- 
bane,'  or  'slayer'  of  Kodran,  whose  second  cousin  was  Thor- 
mod, and  the  killing  of  whom  happened  when  Thormod  was 
but  one  year  old,  rushes  suddenly  forth  and  deals  Hall  his 
death-blow,  iii.  i53a.s 

VICTUAL-FINE  (vistagjald),  forced  contribution  levied  on  a 
subdued  country,  in  the  case  in  question  amounting  to  fifteen 
hundred  (15  x  120=  1,800)  head  of  cattle,  delivered  by  the 
inhabitants  of  the  Small-lands  of  Sweden  to  Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer,  iii.  28523.25 


474  Index  III  [vig — vik 

VIGI,  Olaf  Tryggvison's  favourite  dog,  bought  of  an  Irish 
peasant  on  account  of  its  rare  sagacity,  i.  267^5 — Vigi,  take 
the  hart!  33o14.24  _ 

VIKING  (viking  =  viking  cruise):  we  have  used  this  Icelandic 
feminine  term  in  certain  cases  for  freebooting  expeditions 
undertaken  by  Northern  vikings.  According  to  their  objective 
these  sea-rovings  were : 

West-vikings,  to  the  British  isles,  i.   i2  8o6..27  i3222  i524.n 
26i15-26215  ii.  i2ls-i8i:  7919  i8724.29  in.  in12  H91S  I2221.25 

I23-I24  22I12-22522 

East-vikings,  to  the  littoral  of  the  Baltic,  i.  i2S24.25  34533- 

3482i  h.  5-IJ4  653o-66s  7920 
South-vikings,  to  the  continental  littoral  of  the  North  Sea 
and  the  Channel,  i.  i2823.26  ii.  n7-i215  i820-2i13 — when 
these  expeditions  were  planned  for  only  one  season,  the 
custom  was  to  return  in  autumn  and  rest  at  home  for  the 
winter,  i.  36l7.18 
VIKING  (vikingr  =  sea-rover;  the  latest  etymology  accounts 
for  vik,  from  vig,  fight;  but  there  is  reason  to  doubt  that  the 
termination  can  ever  indicate  a  man  as  the  -ingr  of  his  occa- 
sional work  or  activity.  The  older  derivation  from  vik,  a  sea- 
inlet  (cf.  Icel.  Breiftvikingr,  NjarSvikingr),  the  prowler  of 
sea-inlets,  narrow  and  shallow  bays,  rivers,  etc.,  seems  natural 
in  itself,  and  to  satisfy  the  sense),  freebooter,  sea-rover, 
pirate.  Vikings  winter  out  on  board  their  ships  (Solvi  Klofi), 
i.  ioi6.7  (K.  Harald  Hairfair),  io831-io910 — even  Olaf  the 
Holy  proposes  to  do  so,  1028,  ii.  32433-3251 — dispossessed 
magnates  in  Norway  turned  vikings  and  so  harassed  Harald's 
kingdom  of  Norway  that  he  must  go  west  over  sea  and  clear 
them  out,  i.  ii510-n610 — two  of  K.  Harald's  sons  'lie  out,' 
i.e.,  are  away  for  more  than  one  season,  in  the  Eastlands, 
i2813 — Eric  Bloodaxe  went,  at  the  age  of  twelve,  on  an  east- 
south-and-west  viking  cruise  lasting  eight  years,  i2822.24 — 
Thorgils  and  Frodi  obtain  warships  from  their  father  Harald 
Hairfair,  and  go  to  the  west  and  win  dominion  in  Ireland, 
i.  i3221.25 — vikings  and  kings  of  hosts  swarmed  about  Sodor 
when  "Eric  Bloodaxe  went  out  on  his  last  war-raid,  1530., — 
Esthonian  vikings  infest  the  Baltic,  2  290 — Earl  Eric  Hakon- 
son  takes  to  viking  life  after  the  fall  of  his  father,  and  in 
the  course  of  five  years  visits  various  places  in  and  about  the 


vi l — wak]  Index  III  475 

Baltic,  harrying  Garthrealm  severely,  34533-34S01 — Erling 
Skialgson  habitually  went  on  viking  cruises  in  the  summer 
season,  ii.  244.5  254 — vikings  habitually  took  up  their  winter 
quarters  in  Christian  lands,  8i2.3 — Olaf  the  Holy  put  down 
with  stern  severity  viking  habits  within  his  own  realm,  ii. 
37000-3723 — vikings  from  Wendland,  Courland,  and  elsewhere 
infest  Denmark  much  in  K.  Svein  Wolfson's  reign,  iii.  n601.05 
— from  the  days  of  Magnus  Barefoot,  say  noo,  the  name 
viking  becomes  synonymous  for  evil-doer,  iii.  2i45  25o14.o7 

-5210  400o4.o5  41 918-19 

VILLEINS  (porparar),  cottiers,  country  folk,  of  but  little  avail 
as  soldiers,  formed  the  main  part  of  the  host  gathered  against 
Olaf  the  Holy  at  Sticklestead,  ii.  41  y7  4361S.21  cf.  Thorp- 
dweller. 

VISION  (vitran,  syn),  Olaf  the  Holy's,  ii.  2016.2S  39610.32 — 
Harald  Hardredy's,  iii.  7315.1V  2S.31 

VOW,  1.  (aheit),  votive  offering  to  a  god  or  a  saint,  i.  2i2S  iii. 
I24e-io  19-2S — 2-  (heitstrenging),  solemn  declaration,  accom- 
panied by  certain  rites,  and  uttered  when  the  cup  of  Bragi 
was  drunk,  that  the  vower  would  perform  some  daring  or 
desperate  deed  or  else  pay  with  his  life  for  his  rashness. 
Ingiald  Evilheart's  at  Upsala,  i.  5812.2S — Harald  Hairfair's,  i. 
95i-2 — Svein  Twibeard's,  2  725.12 — Earl  Sigvaldi's,  2  7220.24 — 
Thorkel  High's,  2  7225.27 — Bui  the  Thick's,  2  722s.30 — Sigurd 
Vesetison's,  2  7231.33 — Vagn  Akison's,  273^ 

WAGER  (veS),  to  lay  a  wager  (ve^ja):  Thorarin  Nefiolfson's 
against  Olaf  the  Holy's  on  the  ugliness  of  the  former's  foot, 
ii.  i34s.32 — K.  Magnus  the  Blind's  against  K.  Harald  Gilli's  on 
the  latter's  swiftness  of  foot,  iii.  29720-2qqs — two  bodyguards 
of  Harald  Gilli  lay  a  wager  as  to  the  bedroom  he  would  be 
occupying  on  a  certain  night  (the  one,  namely,  in  the  course 
of  which  he  was  murdered),  34213.21 

WAIN  (vagn),  tilted  over,  a  sort  of  improvised  state-carriage 
for  bringing  a  bride  to  her  future  husband,  i.  8223-83j — large 
wains  with  battlements  used  in  war  by  the  Wallachians  and 
disposed  round  their  camp  as  a  breast-work,  iii.  430.,.n — this 
kind  of  fortification  was  called  wainburg   (vagnborg),   430,^ 

43*23  27 

WAIN-CARLE  (vagnkarl),  a  carter,  iii.  i7915 

WAKE  (vaka),  Lat.  vigilia — 1.  a  vigil,  devotional  watching  and 


476  Index  III  [wak — war 

praying,  iii.  4673  46815 — 2.  the  vigil  or  eve  of  a  saint's  festival, 
the  eve  of  such  a  wake,  is  the  evening  before  the  saint's- 
day  itself;  eve  of  Lawrence  wake  (Lafransvoku  aptann)  =  the 
vigil  of  St.  Lawrence,  or  Aug.  9th,  iii.  3i530.32 — the  eve  of 
Olaf's  wake  (Olafsvoku  aptann),  1240  i9519.20  July  29th — 
wake-day  (vokudagr)  seems  to  mean  the  same  as  vaka  2 : 
wake-day  of  James,  July  24th — second  vigil  of  Olaf  (Olafs 
vokudag  si'^ara)  =  the  vigil  of  the  later  feast,  i.e.,  the  transla- 
tion, of  St.  Olaf,  Aug.  3rd,  30229 

WAKE,  vb  (vaka),  (1)  to  congregate  for  the  purpose  of  watch- 
ing and  praying,  iii.  3022S  467,^ — (2)  to  wake,  watch  over,  a 
dead  body  nightlong  (nattsaeta),  ii.  2713  iii.  395oo.23 

WALNUT  (valhnot),  used  as  fuel  by  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer 
in  order  to  make  a  show  of  his  lordliness,  iii.  26i7.21 — walnut 
shell  (valhnotar-skurn)  made  into  a  tinder-box,  364.,., 

WALRUS-HIDE  WHIP  (svarS-svipa),  a  whip  made  "(plaited) 
out  of  the  hide  of  a  walrus  (or  other  kinds  of  skin),  iii. 
366ir 

WAR-ARROW  (her-6r),  1.  an  arrow,  made  of  iron  for  circula- 
tion on  the  national  or  king's  highways,  but  of  wood  for  con- 
veyance along  by-ways,  sent  out  by  the  commander  of  the 
forces,  or  by  loyal  leaders  of  men,  or  by  captains  of  revolts, 
when  a  sudden  emergency  made  speedy  action  necessary, 
calling  people  to  arms  by  means  of  summons  of  some  sort 
attached  to  it,  which  act  was  called  '  to  shear  up  the  war- 
arrow '  (skera  upp  her-6r),  i.  i7615.17  24330  27331.32  292^  31 
2934  3°9u  3l624  »•  4617  i6213.14  32.33  2oi4.5  233^  31705  iii. 
80  32833 — the  circulation  of  such  a  war  arrow  was  called 
arrow-bidding  (orbo'S),  ii.  4622 — 2.  (vigor),  see  Weapons, 
offensive. 

WAR-BIDDING  (herbo^),  general  call  to  arms,  ii.  3902 

WAR-BLAST  (her-blastr),  the  war-trumpet's  sound,  rallying 
the  fighters  to  a  stand  or  renewed  attack,  i.  i785.6 — a  signal 
to  clear  for,  and  go  into,  action  (blasa  til  brautlogu),  ii.  56^ 
57t3  32I6 — signal  for  attack,  iii.  i6729.30 — for  forming  up  in  a 
shieldburg  (forming  a  square),  24ils 

WAR-BOOTHS  (her-buSir),  '  castra,'  camp,  iii.  42820 

WARD  (vorSr),  a  watch  of  sentinels :  Erling  Askew  sets  a 
ward  of  twelve  men  (soldiers)  to  watch  the  town  of  Tuns- 
berg  against  surprise  by  night,  iii.  44914-i6 


war] 


Index  III  477 


WARDER  (varSma'Sr),  a  watch,  a  sentinel,  i.  i8i4  ii.  io89 

WAR-DUKE  (hertogi),  a  general,  commander  in  chief:  Gu- 
thorm  Sigurdson,  of  Harald  Hairfair's  army,  i.  9in.10 — 
Gyrgir,  of  a  division  of  the  Byzantine  host,  iii.  6221 — Harald 
Sigurdson,  of  the  Voerings  and  volunteer  troops  in  Constan- 
tinople, 630 

WAR-HURDLES  (vig-gyr51ar),  wooden  fences  set  up  along 
the  gunwales  of  ships  for  protection  in  battle,  attached  to 
posts  which  were  secured  by  means  of  loops  to  the  inside  of 
the  railing,  iii.  ioi9 

WAR-CATCH,  -gains,  -gettings,  -plunder,  -spoils  (fengi,  her-fang), 
sharing  of,  ii.  26412.14  2652.n  iii.  123^124  i4o19.20 — a  tithe 
of,  promised  and  given  to  St.  Olaf  as  a  votive  gift,  i246.10  ](,„s 

25°10  15 

W  AR-KINGS  (herkonungar),  see  Sea-kings. 

WAR-SERVICE  (mali,  lit.  covenant),  to  take  war-service  (ganga 
a  mala)  in  Constantinople,  said  of  mercenary  troops,  notably 
the  Vasrings,  enlisting  for  military  duty,  iii.  592r 

WAR-SHIELD  (herskjoldr),  a  shield  that  shows  the  wearer  to 
be  a  foe.  The  supposition  that  war-shields  were  always  red, 
and  peace-shields  (frrS-,  fri^ar-skjoldr)  white,  iii.  2183,  must 
be  modified  in  face  of  Hornklofi's  evidence,  that  Hair- 
fair's  enemies  came  with  '  white  shields '  to  the  battle  of 
Hafursfirth,  i.  1 1 214  and  of  the  detailed  account  of  the  white 
shield  borne  by  Olaf  the  Holy's  body-guard  in  the  battle  off 
Nesiar,  ii.  575.9  5931,  as  well  as  of  the  statement  that  Olaf  the 
Holy  bore  a  white  shield  in  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  4i3s.9 
which  must  mean  that  shields  of  his  body-guard  were  white 
as  well,  for  the  king  would  not  be  likely  to  form  a  solitary 
exception,  and  thus  make  a  mark  of  himself  for  his  enemies. 
It  may  be  fairly  questioned  whether  there  ever  was  such  a 
thing  as  a  white  shield  of  peace,  corresponding  to  the  modern 
white  flag  of  truce.  The  Laxdaela  saga  (ed.  Kalund,  1889-91, 
p.  29324.2C)  points  probably  to  the  true  solution :  Thorvald 
Hialtison  advises  his  guilty  protege  Thorolf:  'Have  this  for 
a  mark,  that  I  shall  turn  the  hollow  of  my  shield  towards 
you,  if  you  have  peace,  and  then  you  may  come  forth.  The 
shield  is  tvhite  inside  .  .  .  He  then  turned  round  the  shield, 
the  hollow  of  it  away  from  himself,  and  when  Thorolf  sees 
that,  he  comes  forth.'   This  passage,  confronted  with  O.Dan. 


478  Index  III         [war — wat 

avugskiold,  which,  when  the  talk  is  of  armed  revolt  against 
constituted  authority,  means  the  same  as  herskjoldr,  goes  far 
to  warrant  the  conclusion  that  an  ordinary  shield  was  one  of 
peace  or  war  according  to  which  of  its  differently  coloured 
sides  was  turned  out.  The  element  avug-  is  the  oldest  form 
of  the  current  O.Scand.  6fug-r,  ofigr  (Eng.  awk-  in  awk-ward), 
meaning  turned  round,  inside  out,  upside  down,  etc.,  and 
avugskiold  therefore  is  the  common  shield  turned  round, 
showing  the  side  indicative  of  hostility  instead  of  that  of 
peace,  the  case  of  the  Laxdoela  merely  conversed;  in  'Heim- 
skringla '  war-shield  enters  chiefly  into  the  phrase,  '  to  fare, 
warshield  aloft '  (with  other  slight  variations)  =  to  be  on  the 
war-path,  to  harry,  i.  331S  2593  3487  iii.  4417  487  12  33  22228 

47°u 

WAR-TAKEN  MEN  (herteknir  menn),  captives  thrown  over- 
board by  Harald  Sigurdson  to  lighten  his  ships  and  delay 
pursuit  (by  the  Danes),  iii.  ioin 

WAR-TOKEN  (her-kumbl),  an  emblem  painted  on  shields  and 
helmets:  in  the  battle  off  Nesiar  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  men 
had  the  Holy  Cross  laid  in  gold  on  their  white  shields,  while 
others  had  it  painted  on  them  with  red  stone  and  blue  ;  the 
cross  was  also  drawn  in  white  (meS  bleiku)  on  the  brow 
(front)  of  all  helmets,  ii.  575.8 — in  the  battle  of  Sticklestead 
all  K.  Olaf's  host  had  the  Holy  Cross  marked  in  white  (me? 
bleiku)  on  shields  and  helmets,  4oo27.29 

WAR-WHOOP  (her-6p),  raised  as  a  signal  of  a  storming  attack, 

ii.  2O22042714  iii.  15*24  6 11 14  I773i_I78i  4*25  4241415  31  44623 

45422  47610-11  13 
WASH-DAY  before  Easter  (Jwattdagr  fyrir  paska),  Saturday 

before  Easter,  Holy  Saturday,  Sanctum  Sabbatum,  iii.  33920 

cf.  Bath-day  and  Water. 

WATCH  (vorSr),  kept  before  the  chamber  where  the  king 
slept  at  night,  iii.  34203.<,6 

WATCH-WORD  (orStak),  for  K.  Olaf's  army  at  Sticklestead: 
'  Forth,  forth,  Christ's  men,  Cross  men,  King's  men  !'  ii.4oo31.32 
427is — f°r  tne  army  °f  ms  enemies:  'Forth,  forth,  Bonder- 
men!'  4252s  42712-13 

WATER  (vatn):  K.  Harald  Sigurdson's  device  for  finding  it  in 
a  desert  place,  iii.  i2  726-i286 — holy  water  for  baptism,  con- 
secrated  on   Saturday   before  Easter  (benedictio  fontis   in 


wax — wea]  Index  III  479 

Sancto  Sabbato),  at  the  Church  of  Saurby  in  Iceland,  Sigurd 
Slembi-Deacon  performing,  or  at  least  taking  part  in  the 
ceremony,  and  thereby  betraying  his  clerical  status,  339mo 

WAX  (vax)  and  brimstone  (brennisteinn)  blended  together, 
used  as  inflammable  material  for  incendiary  purposes  by  K. 
Harald  Sigurdson,  iii.  64ir 

WAYLAYERS  (stigama^r,  utilegumaSr,  lit.  highway-man,  out- 
law), ii.  4i97  iii.  2145 — crowd  to  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  standard 
on  his  way  to  reconquer  Norway,  ii.  39335-26 — tnose  of  them 
that  were  heathen  agreed  at  length  to  being  christened  and 
confirmed,  whereupon  they  were  incorporated  in  the  king's 

body-guard,  394S"39527  398is"399  415-41617 

WAY- LAYING  (sat),  ambush,  ii.  177^ 

WEAPONS  (vapn). 
1.  Defensive  (hh'far). 

Byrny  (brynja),  coat  of  mail,  of  two  sorts:  1.  plate-byrny 
(spanga-brynja),  a  coat  probably  of  leather,  on  to  which 
were  sewed  spangles  or  plates  of  metal,  which,  overlapping 
each  other,  covered  it  like  a  coating  of  scales ;  this  was  the 
cheaper  and  less  weapon-proof  coat  of  mail,  iii.  4i223 — 2. 
ring-byrny  (hringa-brynja),  the  ring-woven  coat  of  mail, 
much  the  more  costly  of  the  two,  chiefly  worn  by  kings, 
earls,  and  wealthy  magnates.  Of  this  kind  were,  of  course, 
the  white  'byrnies'  of  Harald  Godwinson's  cavalry  at  Stam- 
fordbridge,  iii.  171^ — so  also  was  undoubtedly  K.  Hakon 
the  Good's  byrny,  i.  i8233  i8321 18410  i8a1227  i9is  193^ — 
also  the  byrny  worn  by  Earl"  Hakon  in  the  battle  of 
Hiorungwick,  as  testifies  the  kenning  used  by  Tind  Hall- 
kelson:  '  ring-bright  clattering  warsark  of  Hangi,'  2  7819  „5.27 
— and  doubtless  Olaf  Tryggvison's  in  the  battle  of  Svold, 
3662s — ring-byrnies  were  worn  by  one  hundred  (=120) 
of  Olaf  the  Holy's  body-guard  in  the  battle  off  Nesiar,  ii. 
574  5825  07 — probably  also  by  his  '  Guests'  in  their  attack 
on  Eilif  the  Gautlander,  772s — of  this  description  must 
have  been  the  byrnies  used  for  the  decoration  of  the  walls 
in  a  royal  hall,  i4912 — Olaf  the  Holy  had  on  a  ring-byrny 
at  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  4i314  43310 — Arnliot  Gellini 
likewise,  though  a  highway-man,  4i513.14 — Hugh  the 
Valiant's  must  have  been  of  ringed  mail,  iii.  22333 — Harald 
Gilli  affords  a  solitary  example  of  a  warrior  fighting  in  two 


480  Index  III  [wea 

(ring)  byrnies,  while,  as  Snorri  slyly  remarks,  his  valiant 
brother  Kristrod  '  had  never  a  byrny,'  3i622.23 — the  ring- 
byrny  seems  to  have  been  a  piece  of  armour  which  the 
Norsemen  had  adopted  from  foreigners,  and  did  not  find 
suitable  to  their  nimble  and  shiftful  manner  of  fighting ; 
otherwise  it  would  be  difficult  to  account  for  the  fact  that, 
when  a  hot  fight  was  looked  for,  or  was  going  on,  they 
threw  away  their  byrnies,  as  did  Hakon  the  Good  in  the 
battle  of  Fit  jar,  i.  i8321  i892S — Magnus  the  Good  at  the 
battle  of  Lyrshawheath,  iii.  363.9  1S — Harald  Hardredy  and 
his  men  at  Stamfordbridge,  i7o20 — Eystein  Heathcock  and 
his  band  of  followers  in  the  Heathcock's  Brunt,  i7826 — 
byrnies  not  specified,  i.  i9is  i934  1993  ii.  SAS\  m-  3^is 
4720  1760,3  2oi2.4  224l7 — Harald  Hardredy's  byrny  was 
called  Emma,  and  was  so  long  that  it  reached  down  to  the 
middle  of  his  leg,  and  so  strong  that  never  had  weapon 

fastened  on  it,  i7514.16  cf-  I5I33 

Here  we  may  mention  a  peculiar  kind  of  armour  made 
by  Finns  out  of  reindeer-skin,  doing  the  service  of  an  or- 
dinary byrny.  These  reindeer-skin  coats  were  called  hrein- 
bjalfar  (sing,  h — i).  Thorir  Hound  had  caused  a  dozen 
such  to  be  made  for  him,  and  with  '  so  mickle  wizardry 
that  no  weapon  could  bite  on  them,  yea,  mickle  less  than 
on  a  ring-byrny.'  Of  course,  the  wizardry  in  this  case  was 
the  extraordinary  thickness  of  the  fur  of  the  Arctic  animal, 
which  will  withstand  the  blow  probably  of  most  swords, 

ii-  38725-2s  43I3r432i2 
Helm,  helmet  (hjalmr),  apparently  only  of  metal.     Hakon 

the  Good's  foregilded  (gullroSinn),  i.  183^  i8524.25  i8924 

190.,  where  'arhjalmr,'  'metallic  helm,'  must  mean  golden 

helmet  —  Olaf    Tryggvison's    goldwrought    (gullnySinn), 

36626.27 — Olaf  the  Holy's  all  gilded  (gyltr),  ii.  4133 — Arnliot 

Gellini's  full  fair  (all-friftr),  meaning,  probably,  gilt,  41513 — 

Harald  Hardredy's  goodly  (fagr),  undoubtedly  gilt,  iii.  i7314 

— Gregory  Dayson's  gold-reddened  (gullro^inn),  38619 — 

helm  cleft  by  an  exceptionally  fine  tempered  sword,  i.  1 86^9 

— Welsh  (valskr),  i.e.,  foreign,  from  the  land  of  the  '  Valir,' 

northern  France,  ii.  574  5830 — with  a  white  cross  painted 

on  the  front,  578 — helms  used  for  decorating  the  walls  of 

a  royal  hall,  i49]2 — helmet  used  for  pouring  into  it  weighed 


wea]  Index  III  48 1 

money  for  sorting,  3o825 — the  ceremony  of  the  investiture 
of  an  earl  required  that  the  king  should  put  a  helmet  on 
the  former's  head;  this,  though  not  stated,  must  have  been 
the  case  at  Har.  Hairfair's  investiture  of  Hrollaug,  i.  98,110 
— this  also  the  poet  Eyolf  Dadaskald  must  be  referring  to 
in  saying  that  Harald  Gormson  appointed  Earl  Eric  ruler 
of  Norway,  'helm-coifed'  (hjalmi-faldinn),  i.  249,,,,,  cf. — it 
was  therefore  in  accordance  with  established  precedent  that 
Magnus  the  Good  placed  a  helmet  on  the  head  of  Svein 
Wolfson  on  investing  him  with  earldom  over  Denmark,  iii. 
3i3.4 — helmet  with  a  noseguard:  Bui's,  i.  28o20  Thorgeir  01 
Kviststead's,  ii.  43o12  Hugh  the  Valiant's,  iii.  2245 — noticed 
as  a  thing  out  of  the  common,  that  Gregory  Dayson  went 
himself  in  helmet,  and  with  a  helmeted  following,  to  a 
Thing,  38618.20 — putting  hats  over  helmets  a  device  for 
disguising  the  person,  i.  i8526.27  ii.  772S.29  iii.  6725  47214 — 
further  references,  i.  iS421  i934  24926  3683  37o4  ii.  i4is 
3°3io  356ii-i2  35S03  iii.  4725  (where  shield  is  a  misprint  for 
helm)  783.3  13633  i7o27  176,5  i7912  2oi24  22420  32827  3505 

35523  4X433 
Shield  (skjoldr,   rond,   n't,   hh'f),   shields  distinguished  by 

colour  and  ornamentation  :    '  fair '  (fagr),  i.e.,  beautifully 

ornamented,  of  the  shields  of  the  English  cavalry  of  Harald 

Godwinson,  iii.  17^ — 'forgilded'  (gyltr),  Olaf  Try ggvi son's 

in  the  battle  of  Svold,  i.  36625.2(3 — Gautish  (gauzkr),  of 

Gautland    (Swedish)   manufacture,   apparently  a   distinct 

variety,  iii.  4719 — 'gold-reddened'  (gullro^inn),  K.  Sigurd 

Haraldson's,  iii.  38921.22 — red  (rauSr),  '  red-board  '  (rauft- 

brik),  a  kenning  for  shield  in  general,  i.  24218 — red  shields 

(rau'Sar  randir),  of  the  shields  of  Magnus  the  Good's  host 

marching  on   Norway  through  Sweden,  iii.   618 — Harald 

Hardredy's  shields  in  general  described  as  red  (rauft  rond) 

by  Thorleik  the  Fair,  983 — and  again,  by  another  authority, 

i642S — Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon's,  a  red,  364n  17 — red,  with 

a  golden  lion  laid  on  it,  Magnus  Barefoot's,  24o25.20 — red, 

with  gilt  nails  therein  and  starred  with  William's  girth, 

Nicolas   Skialdvorson's,    483s.10  —  white   (hvftr),   '  shields 

white  shining,'  in  the  fight  of  Hafursfirth,  i.  H214 — white, 

with  the  holy  cross  laid  thereon  in  gold  or  in  red  stone 

(paint)  or  blue,  K.  Olaf  the  Holy's  and  his  body-guard's  in 

VI.  1  1 


482  Index  III  [we a 

the  battle  off  Nesiar,  ii.  575.7  5931 — at  Sticklestead  the  king 
had  a  shield,  '  white  with  the  Holy  Cross  done  thereon,' 
which  means  that  his  body-guard  had  asimilarly ornamented 
shield,  as  otherwise  the  king  would  have  made  of  himself 
too  conspicuous  a  mark  for  his  enemies,  4i38-i0 — m  the 
battle  of  Niz  Thiodolf  testifies  that  the  shields  (hlifr)  of 
the  Danes  were  white,  iii.  i353.2 — stained  shield  (steind 
rond)  of  the  shields  of  Olaf  the  Holy's  host  in  his  raid  on 
Touraine  in  1013,  ii.  2i3 — shields,  which  must  have  been 
more  or  less  highly  ornamented,  though  no  mention  is 
made  of  the  fact:  Hakon  the  Good's,  i.  i832 — Thoralf 
Skolmson's,  i8421  i8615 — Einar  Thambarskelfir's,  37i30 — 
Leif  Ozurson's  (once  used  as  a  sort  of  counter  for  sorting 
money),  ii.  307^— Erling  Skialgson's,  22414  35612  35824— - 
Griotgarth  Olvirson's,  ii.  34429.30 — Olvir  Micklemouth's,  iii. 
32  825.27 — Bentein  Kolbeinson's,  35522 — Gregory  Dayson's, 
4oil7 — lying  nightlong  under  shields  for  cover :  Olaf  the 
Holy's  army,  marching  down  Verdale  towards  Sticklestead, 
ii.  4o610.n — Magnus  the  Good's,  bivouacking  on  Lyrshaw- 
heath,  iii.  3431-35! — sitting  'under'  shields,  i.e.,  behind 
them,  within  the  hollow  of  them,  for  a  shelter  against  snow- 
drift, i5o15.16 — to  beat  shields  with  weapons,  a  signal  for 
attack,  ii.  20221  iii.  i5i2.3  4541S — shooting  right  through 
shields  noted  as  an  evidence  of  the  efficiency  reached  by 
the  Jomsburgers  in  spear-throwing  and  archery,  i.  2  7817 — 
shields  (of  superior  make,  of  course)  given  by  kings  to 
favourites,  iii.  83.35 — at  tne  investiture  of  an  earl  the  cere- 
mony required,  in  Harald  Hairfair's  day,  that  the  king 
should  hang  a  shield  round  the  former's  neck,  i.  9810.n — 
and  in  Magnus  the  Good's  day  that  the  shield  should  be 
done  on  the  earl's  shoulder,  iii.  3i2.3 — the  shield  was  one  of 
the  items  which  constituted  the  armour  of  Odin's  Valkyrjur, 
i.  19124 — phrase:  to  cast  shield  on  one's  back  =  to  turn  to 
flight,  iii.  2425 — the  two  names  almost  exclusively  used  for 
shield,  rond  and  skjoldr,  are  originally  names  for  two 
varieties,  corresponding  respectively  to  Lat.  clipeus  and 
scutum,  round  and  oblong  shield.  Rond  is  the  older  term, 
and  only  used  by  the  poets.  Snorra  Edda  (F.  J6nson, 
1900),  p.  ii522  says:  'On  ancient  shields  it  was  customary 
to  paint  a  border  (rond)  which  was  called  ring  (baugr),  and 


wea]  Index  III  483 

by  that  ring  shields  are  designated.'  Rond,  therefore,  was 
the  ancient,  skjoldr  the  less  ancient  of  the  two  objects. 
But  in  '  Heimskringla'  we  cannot  be  certain  when  the  poets 
mean  rond  to  stand  in  its  original  special  sense  and  when 
in  the  general,  which  is  expressed  by  skjoldr.  Besides  the 
references  already  given,  '  rond '  underlies  shield  in  the 
following  instances,  i.  24505  25633  259^  27412  ii.  65  5905 
405.30  4ioio  iii-  4°g  4421  46iS  515  6319 — and  'skjoldr'  in 
these,  i.    igog  2745  ii.   I41S   i514  4433  iii.  4o25  4325  4812 

5*17  63i5  J364  i7p27  r7520  33°ie 17  is  36415  36829 

Targe  (targa),  foreign  word,  O.E.  targe,  O.Fr.  targe,  O.H.G. 
targa,  a  small  round  shield;  poet,  a  shield  in  general,  i. 
i9on 

2.  Offensive. 

Arrow,  shaft  (or,  gen.  drvar,  in  one  case  hremsa,  iii.  i3531), 
secured  to  a  shaft  (skapt)  by  means  of  shaft-binding 
(reyrbond),  i.  3717.9  19  (rendered  literally,  reedbands,  iii. 
483^  cf.  arrow-shaft  (orvarskapt),  ii.  439x — only  in  one 
case  is  there  a  mention  made  of  arrow  with  barbs  (krokar, 
lit.  'crooks'),  ii.  442l7 — whether  the  war-arrow  (vig-or), 
which  seems  to  have  been  a  hand-shot  weapon,  was  other- 
wise a  distinct  species  of  arrow,  remains  an  open  question, 
iii.  4o20 — arrow-head  (orvar-oddr)  once  occurs  in  connec- 
tion with  the  feat  otherwise  so  frequently  recorded  of  ex- 
ceptionally strong  archers,  of  drawing  a  bow  over  the 
arrow-head,  illustrating  the  difference  in  strength  between 
Olaf  Tryggvison  and  the  youth  of  eighteen,  Einar  Tham- 
barskelfir,  i.  37i26-29 — fixing  tinder  lighted  with  hallowed 
fire  to  the  point  of  an  arrow  to  be  shot  at  a  shot-proof 
wizard,  a  sure  method  of  making  such  a  shot  take  effect, 
m-  33°ss-33Is— general  references,  i.  783  207n  2i929.30 
28229  36620  37o14  3717  u  19  ii.  i3ol7  15632  42829  43830  44i16 
111.  4o28  5i6  i3522  2  242  4  33o12 18  33-33 12  cf.  Dart. 

Axe  (ox,  gen.  oxar,  pi.  oxar),  kinds  of,  mentioned:  a  little 
axe  (h'til  ox),  the  weapon  with  which  Olaf  Tryggvison  com- 
mitted his  first  manslaughter  at  nine  years  of  age,  i.  2  3o16 
— broad-axe  (breiSox),  iii.  i72S.29 1814  361G — a  wedge-beaten 
thick  axe  (veggslegin,  )>ykk),  i8x  4  9 12 — hand-axe  (handox), 
apparently  such  an  one  as  might  be  carried  in  one  hand, 
its  handle  serving  as  a  walking  stick,  consequently  a  lighter 


484  Index  III  [wea 

one  than  the  ordinary  heavy  battle  axe,  which  was  carried 
over  the  shoulder,  ii.  309n  l5.16  iii.  30 15 — but  in  the  battle 
of  Sticklestead  this  kind  of  axe  served  for  a  shot-weapon, 
ii.  42809 — executioner's  axe,  i.  28i12  26  29  282^  16 — to  lead 
under  "the  axe  (lerSa  undir  oxi),  take  out  to  execution,  iii. 
36305 — axe-hammer  (oxar-hamarr),  the  back  of  the  axe,  ii. 
309^5.16iii.  36612 — the  horn  of  an  axe  (oxarhyrna),  ii.  3S825.26 
42809 — K.  Knut  orders  Kalf  Arnison  to  send  him  three 
dozen  axes  'needfully'  made,  4667.15 — general  references: 
i.  nogii.  26il7  26217  35835  4334  iii.  2o23.24  82l7  20  i°827 

32827  32915  00  37212  38232  48525  28  29  31  4863 

Barbed  shafts,  see  Shaft. 

Beam  (staurr),  K.  Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer  ordered  every  man 
of  nine  years  and  upwards  to  bring,  in  the  course  of  a  year, 
'  five  weapon-stones,'  or  else  '  five  beams '  (staurar),  sharp  at 
one  end,  and  five  ells  in  length,  to  the  castle  of  Kings' 
Rock,  obviously  for  the  purpose  of  serving  as  weapons,  iii. 
3°9is-"o — tne  '  1°§S '  (staurar)  which  the  defenders  of  the 
castle"shot  at  the  besieging  Wends  in  1135  were  clearly  the 
'beams'  in  question  here,  32818 — as  were  also  the  'sticks' 
(keflivolr,  pi.  keflivelir)  which  K.  Rettibur  complains  of 
having  been  battered  by,  33iis  2i 

Bill  (hoggspj6t),  a  weapon,  as  the  name  indicates,  which 
served  at  once  the  purpose  of  cutting  and  thrusting.  Only 
two  men  are  mentioned  as  possessors  of  this  kind  of 
weapon,  and  both  are  high-way  men  and  outlaws.  Arnliot 
Gellini's  bill  had  a  gold-driven  socket  (fair  gullrekinn),  and 
the  shaft  of  it  was  so  high  that  the  hand  could  but  reach 
the  socket  of  it  when  it  stood  upright,  ii.  3°°i2i4  3OIi4  24 
— Karl  o'  Mere's  bill  is  only  described  as  'mickle,'  i.e.,  out 
of  the  common  as  to  size,  303n 

Bow  (bogi) :  only  one  kind,  the  ordinary  hand-bow,  is  men- 
tioned, i.  20713  2833  366i9  37°n  37  ^o  26  27  .29  3725  ni- 
4°22  I352S  I7°28  33°n—  terms  for  a  bow  denoting  the  ma- 
terial it  was  made  of  are:  (almr,  elm,  bow  of  elm-wood),  i. 
I73i3  J994  "•  42815  iii.  i3530  22420  4i431  44O00— (yr,  yew, 
bow  of  yew-tree),  ii.  37310 — bowstring  (boga-strengr,  made 
of  twisted  flax,  cf.  '  tugged  flax,'  toginn  horr,  iii.  4035),  i. 
28227  36620 
Brand  (brandr),  technically  the  blade  of  the  sword,  i.  i4i15 


6 
20 


wea]  Index  III  485 

—poetically,  a  term  for  sword  in  general  (and  in  two  in- 
stances so  translated,  see  Sword),  i.  i862g  2i5r,  ii.  i733  59,. 
io97  iii.  3824  4o10  479  5i15  i3523 

Caltrop  (herspori),  iii.  3224  22 

Dart  (fleinn,  O.E.  flan),  perhaps  radically  related  to  flint, 
seems  to  have  been  a  barbed,  hand-shot  weapon;  Snorri 
calls  it  also  an  arrow,  '  shaft,'  i.  i872.3  s  i9o25  ii.  5830 

Gavelock,  see  Javelin. 

Glaive  (ma?kir,  Goth,  meki,  O.E.  mece),  a  kind  of  sword,  i. 
374 

Javelin  (gaflak,  O.E.  gaflac),  a  foreign  shot  weapon,  i.  372 
transl.   'barbed   shaft,'  ii.  464^  and   'gavelock,'  iii.  4o2 
Snorri  mentions  it  as  a  noteworthy  fact  that  Olaf  Trygg 
vison  and  his  reputed  son  Tryggvi  knew  how  to  shoot  two 
javelins  at  once,  one  with  each  hand,  i.  372,.  ii.  46427.30 

Short-sword  (skalm),  the  particular  weapon  of  troll-women, 
iii.  i6327 

Slaughter-sling  (val-slongva),  a  catapult,  Lat.  ballista,  iii. 
322T — used  for  gallows,  324^ 

Sparth  (sparSa),  an  Irish  war-axe,  iii.  242^ — rendered,  'a 
stake,'  ii.  17707 

Spear  (spjot,  most  commonly,  but  with  many  other  names 
besides,  denoting,  no  doubt,  several  varieties  which,  in 
most  cases,  we  have  no  means  of  distinguishing),  used  both 
for  thrusting  and  shooting.  Spj6t  noted  for  quality  and 
ornamentation:  the  Sealsbane  (Selsbani)  was  a  gold- 
socketed  mala-spjdt,  which  we  have  rendered  '  bar-spear,' 
in  reliance  on  the  locus  classicus,  Gisli  saga,  p.  uls  where 
the  use  the  mala-spj6t  was  put  to  demonstrably  required 
that  the  mal  should  be  a  cross-bar  on  the  socket,1  ii.  239, 
20  27  33  24°io-n   265i7  21 — tne  sPear  that  Olaf  the  Holy 

1  The  saga  (ed.  K.  Gislason,  1849)  describing  the  ceremony  of  sworn- 
brotherhood,  says,  '  They  (the  four  friends  to  be  sworn  in)  cut  there  out  of 
the  ground  a  strip  of  sward  in  such  a  manner  that  both  ends  of  it  remained 
attached  to  the  ground,  and  they  set  thereunder  a  mala-spjot  so  high  that  a 
man  might  reach  with  his  hand  to  the  spear-nail '  (geirnagli,  by  which  the 
spear-head  was  fixed  to  the  spear-shaft).  The  strip  being,  as  it  were,  a  mat 
of  herbaceous  root-fibres,  could  be  stretched  beyond  its  natural  length  the 
more  the  longer  it  was,  but  no  spear  but  one  with  a  cross-bar  could  hold  it 
lifted  six  to  seven  feet  over  the  ground  during  the  performance  of  the  cere- 
mony under  it.' 


486  Index  III  [wea 

fought  with  at  Sticklestead,  and  in  Snorri's  time  was  kept 
beside  the  altar  in  Christ's  Church  at  Nidoyce,  must  have 
been  ornamented,  though  accidentally  no  mention  is  made 
of  it,  41310-11 — Arnlj6t  Gellini's  spj6t  was  great  and  gold- 
inlaid,  and  so  thick  that  a  good  handful  it  was,  4i515.i7 
perhaps  a  different  weapon  from  his  '  bill,'  q.v. — spj6t  not 
referred  to  as  ornamented,  i.  469  i85x  i8710  2jg2i  ii.  20223 

41022  4i3io  42827  28  Hi.  4o26  i7618  33i16  s62n  13— sPears 
with  other  names  than  spj6t:  (broddr),  '  dart,'  '  point '  (by  a 
slip,  '  sword-point,'  i.  1859  1907),  a  vague  poetical  term,  but 
it  seems  everywhere  to  point  to  spear  rather  than  arrow,  iii. 
22415  l7  44o20— (darr,  pi.  dorr)  'dart,'  i.  I2581  iii.  446  4631 
— (darra^Sr)  'shaft,'  i.  18309  i8c)16 — (geirr)  'spear,'  i.  2i22 
io221  is810  i8o21  i9i14  193,5  2i515  2558  ii.  3583  4063  iii. 
gS8 — (kesja,  a  foreign  word,  cf.  Lat.  gaesum,  Gr.  yaiaog,  -ov, 
the  long  heavy  spear  of  the  Celts  of  Gaul),  i.  33o19  21 

37°io   14   ni-    4636    13322    I7°27  24°28   242n    3i7io   37526 

41331— (sPJ5r>  Plur-)  i-  iio4  3673o  .369i7~ (viEr)  i-.  IIOo 
ii215  iii.  1363 — the  'twirl-spear,'  '  sling-spear '  (snaeri-dorr, 

sna?rispj6t),  was  a  spear  with  a  sling  of  twisted  cord  fixed 

to  the  end  of  the  handle  in  order  to  give  the  flight  of  it 

the  greater  velocity,  hasta  amentata,  iii.  4o19.20  4i2  4629 

Stones  (grj6t),  apparently  not  submitted  to  any  process  of 

manufacture,  i.   ii237  ii.  428^  iii.  4021  29  437  i352o  4oS7 

4io19  4141.2 — ovenstones  (ofnsteinar),  389^  483^7— sub- 

ject,  probably,  to  some  process  of  manufacture  were  the 

weapon-stones  (vapn-steinar),  five  of  which,  by  an  order 

of  K.   Sigurd,  every  man  within  the  borough  of  Kings' 

Rock,  nine  winters  old  and  upwards,  had  to  deliver  in  the 

course  of  every  twelvemonth  to  the  castle  of  that  place, 

3°9i4-is  cf-  3281s  33°29  33%  23  25— with  this  kind  of  weapon 
must  be  classed  the  shaft-flint  (skepti-fietta ;  fletta  =  flint, 
cf.  fiettu-grj6t,  flint-stones),  a  spear  the  head  of  which  was 
made  of  flint  secured  to  a  wooden  handle  or  shaft  (see  E. 
Magniisson,  Proc.  of  the  Camb.  Philol.  Society,  1900,  p. 

TO),  ii.  42829-30  *"■  4°21  25 

Sword  (sverS):  this  is  the  weapon  most  frequently  men- 
tioned, and  indicated  by  the  greatest  variety  of  terms  by 
the  poets.  They  fall  naturally  into  two  classes:  those 
which  are  indicated  as  of  foreign  manufacture,  and  in  the 


we  a]  Index  III  487 

translation  are  called  Welsh  (vdlsk,  from  valskr,  foreign, 
i.e.,  French),  and  those  which  are  not  so  distinguished. 
There  are  but  few  mentioned  of  the  former  class.  The 
freebooting  enemies  of  Har.  Hairfair  seem  to  have  had 
mainly  foreign  swords  in  the  battle  of  Hafursfirth,  872,  i. 
1 1216 — Welsh  swords  seem  to  have  been  used  by  both  sides 
in  Olaf  the  Holy's  attack  on  London  Bridge  and  Southwark, 
ioo8,ii.  i532 — they  also  seem  to  have  been  the  kind  of  swords 
chiefly  used  by  Magnus  the  Good's  men  in  the  battle  at 
Re,  iii.  3804 — all  the  rest  fall  into  two  groups,  those  which 
are  ornamented  or  of  superior  workmanship,  and  those 
which  are  not  so  described  or  indicated — black-gleaming 
(svartskygS),  i.e.,  most  highly  polished,  according  to  the 
contemporary  Hornklofi,  were  the  swords  of  Har.  Hair- 
fair's  army  in  his  Gautland  expedition,  i.  no5 — the  sword 
sent  by  Athelstane  to  Har.  Hairfair  was  done  with  gold 
about  the  hilts  and  the  grip,  and  all  its  array  was  wrought 
with  gold  and  silver  and  set  with  precious  gems,  1392-10 — 
K.  Athelstane  gave  to  Hakon  the  Good  the  sword  Quern- 
biter,  whose  hilts  and  grip  were  all  of  gold,  and  the  brand 
so  keen  that  with  it  Hakon  cut  a  quern-stone  to  the  eye  (!), 
the  best  sword  that  ever  came  to  Norway,  i4i13.19  i8233- 
i831  i8617  1903 — the  same  referred  to  as  golden-hilted 
(gull-hjalta'Sr),  i8628 — gold-wrought  (gullbtiit)  sword,  Olaf 
the  Holy's  Yule-gift  to  Bryniolf  Camel,  ii.  7929.30 — a  store 
of  such  swords  in  that  king's  arsenal  intended  for  the 
same  purpose;  the  one  selected  for  Sigvat  had  the  grip 
wound  and  the  hilts  inlaid  with  gold,  3378.27 — a  gift  that 
roused  the  unconcealed  envy  of  Thormod,  who  mockingly 
named  it  '  Goldenhilt,'  cf.  404^-405,3  4o815.K( — K.  Olaf  the 
Holy's  sword,  '  Hneitir,'  referred  to  by  Sigvat  as  red-brown 
(rau^brunn),  4304  had  the  grip  wound  round  with  gold, 
4T3i2-i4  426-  432io — Arnljot  Gellini's  sword  was  fair-wrought 
(biiit),  i.e.,  handsomely  ornamented,  4 1 514.15 — Magnus  Bare- 
foot's  sword,  the  '  Legbiter,'  was  tooth-hilted  (tannhjaltat), 
i.e.,  had  hilts  made  of  walrus  tooth,  and  the  grip  gold- 
wrapped,  iii.  240o6.2s — to  this  class  also  must  have  be- 
longed the  sword"  of  state  which  a  king,  performing  the 
ceremony  of  investiture  of  an  earl,  fastened  to  the  belt 
of  the  latter,  i.  989.10  iii.  31^2 — representative  of  sverS  in 


488  Index  III         [wea — wed 

the  original  is  sword  in  the  following  instances  :  i.  2c>27 
36si  4613  i8s15  i8614  i9°3  2i24  IQIe  2°7h  283i5  3383r3395 
346-28  369h  372s  lo  "•  l6i0  52i2  6o2  78s  2o69  22i29  22414 
2 7922  3°°i5  3°3ion  34430  356i-  27  35824  42932  4394  &■  4722 

8324  i7°m  I79is  2I3r  2422o  33°2s  35522  376oi  472i4~ of 
brandr  :  i.  i736iii.  37607 — of  hjorr,  i.  io227  i79n  i8426 1985 

37310."-  5830  37i9  40235  43o4  iii.  3616  i77j  37525  3764— 
of  hringr:    i.  37715  iii.   2229 — of  langbarSi,   i.   i9021 — of 
laufi,  iii.  22412 — of  log^ir,  i.  n610 — of  msekir,  iii.  5819 — 
of  sax,  ii.  1253  n — of  skj6mi,  i.  20725 — swords  with  proper 
names: 
Bastard  (bastarSr),  Earl  Sigurd  of  Reyr's  sword,  iii.  4S4: 3 
Footbroad  (fbtbrerSr),  Thoralf  Skolmson's,  i.  i8422 
Hneitir,  '  Striker,'  Olaf  the  Holy's  sword,  with  a  grip  wrapped 
about  with  gold,  thrown  away  by  the  king  on  receiving  his 
mortal  wound  in  the  battle  of  Sticklestead,  ii.  41312-14  4267 
432i-2 10-11 — Eindrid  the  Young's  account  of  the  fate  of  this 
sword  until  it  found  its  way  to  St.  Olaf's  Church  in  Con- 
stantinople, where  it  was  put  up  as  a  trophy,  iii.  4283-429^ 
Quernbiter  (kvernbftr),  hilts  and  grip  all  of  gold,  with  a 
brand  so  keen  that  it  cut  a  quernstone  to  the  eye  (!),  K. 
Athelstane's  gift  to  Hakon  the  Good,  the  best  sword  that 
ever  came  to  Norway,  i.  i4i1319  18233-183!  i86l7  1903 
WEDDING,  WEDDING-FEAST  (briiSlaup,  i.e.,  bniShlaup, 
lit.  '  bride-leap '  =  '  bride-rush,' '  bride-raid,'  a  term  which  has 
come  down  from  primitive  colonization  times,  when  a  tribe 
of  pioneers  occasionally  found  itself  compelled  to  make  a 
bride-lifting  raid  on  a  neighbouring  tribe,  in  order  to  safe- 
guard social  morality  and  ensure  due  increase  of  population. 
Before  the  days  of  Harald  Hairfair  we  meet  with  somewhat 
similar  proceedings,  though  without  the  same  provocative 
cause.    Agni  kills  K.  Frosty  of  Finland  and  takes  his  daughter 
Skialf,  i.   33n.22 — Gudrod    Hunterking    deals  in  the  same 
manner  with  K.  Harald  Redlip  and  his  daughter  Asa,  i. 
7°32"7Iie — tne   Bearserk   Haki  slays   K.    Sigurd  Hart  and 
seizes  his  daughter  Ragnhild,  8i23-826  who  again  is  robbed 
from  Haki  by  Halfdan  the  Black,   829-837 — in  course  of 
time,  when  society  became  more  settled,  the  term  was  used 
chiefly  in  reference  to  the  process  of  bringing  the  bride  to 
her  new  home,  and  ultimately  bru^laup  came  to  mean  mar- 


wei — whe]  Index  III  489 

riage  festivity  in  general;  but  it  was  the  marriage  festivity  of 
bride  and  bridegroom,  while  in  relation  to  the  guests  the 
feast  was  a  boS,  party,  company,  and  in  relation  to  host  or 
hosts  a  veizla,  entertainment,  treat).  Weddings  described  : 
Halfdan  the  Black's  and  queen  Ragnhild's,  i.  8$3.: — Olaf  the 
Holy's  and  queen  Astrid's,  ii.  i23s.13  I5213-i534 
WEIGHING  of  silver  money  (rerSa,  reizla  =  act  of  weighing), 

ii.  3o819.25 
WEIGHTS  (met),  wherewith  to  weigh  gold  in  scales,  iii.  8525.26 
WELL  (brunnr)  of  healing  water  made  its  appearance  in  "the 
sand-hill  where  the  body  of  Olaf  the  Holy  was  first  buried, 
ii.  457o-s — another  such  sprang  up  where  the  blood  of  K. 
Eystein  Haraldson  fell  on  earth,  and  still  another  where  his 
body  was  waked,  iii.  395o;.31 
WENDISH  treatment  of  prisoners  of  war,  iii.  3324.G 
WEREGILD  (bcetr,  plur.  of  b6t,  lit.  amendment,  satisfaction, 
atonement),  paid  by  Queen  Allogia,  according  to  the  finding 
of  the  King  of  Holmgarth,  for  the  slaughter  of  Klerkon  by 
her  protege,  Olaf  Tryggvison,  nine  years  old,  i.  231,3.- — Olaf 
the  Holy  awards  himself  one-third  of  the  earldom  of  Orkney 
in  atonement  for  his  body-guard,  Eyvind  Urochshorn,  ii. 
l84io-i9 — for  Earl  Einar  Wrongmouth  he  awards  weregild 
equal  to  that  for  three  landed  men,  i842S.30 — Snorri  does  not 
give  any  account  of  the  weregild  paid  in  Norway  or  elsewhere 
for  representatives  of  the  various  classes  into  which  society 
was  divided.  The  Older  Gula-Thing's  Law,  c.  2oo('Norges- 
gamle  Love,'  i.  74),  gives  the  scale  as  follows:  for  a  freed-man, 
leysingi,  6  ounces;  for  his  son  1  mark  (8  ounces);  for  a 
boandi  (bonder,  rural  householder),  12  ounces  (=i|  mark); 
for  a  hauldr,  3  marks  (  =  24  ounces);  for  a  landed  man  and 
a  marshal,  lendr  ma?r  ok  stallari,  6  marks  (  =  48  ounces);  for 
an  earl  and  a  bishop,  1 2  marks  ( =  96  ounces).  The  law  of 
Frosta-Thing,  x.  31  ('N.  g.  L.,'  i.  255)  provides  that  for  a 
hauldr  the  weregild  be  3  marks,  which  shall  decrease  for 
the  classes  below  him  and  increase  for  those  above  him 
at  the  rate  of  one-third  in  each  individual  case.  Thus  the 
hauldr,  the  representative  of  the  old  freeholders'  class,  con- 
stituted in  either  law  the  unit  from  which  the  valuation  of 
each  citizen  class  started  downwards  and  upwards. 
WHEAT  (hveiti),  iii.  ioi7 


490  Index  III  [whi — wiz 

WHITE  WEEDS  (hvita-vaSir),  Lat.  albae  (vestes),  the  white 
garments  worn  for  eight  days  after  baptism,  i.  33720 

WHITSUNDAY  (hvitasunnudagr,  O.E.  in  D.  of  A.-S.  Chronicle 
hwita  sunnandseg),  origin  of  the  name  uncertain.  It  has  been 
suggested  that  the  name  might  be  a  translation  of  dominica 
in  albis,  the  first  Sunday  after  Easter,  and  at  the  same  time 
the  last  day  on  which  those  who  were  brought  to  the  font  on 
Easter  Day  wore  the  white  baptismal  weeds.  But  Whit- 
sunday being  the  great  confirmation  festivity  in  the  North  it 
stands  to  reason  that  those  who  had  been  baptized  at  Easter 
should,  on  confirming  their  baptismal  oath,  wear  again  their 
white  weeds,  which  would  naturally  account  for  the  name, 
iii.  288l7  32531 

WIGHT  (vettr,  f.),  an  evil  spirit,  from  a  Christian  point  of 
view,  inhabiting  localities  possessed  by  heathens,  a  guardian 
spirit,  ii.  36627 

WILLIAM'S-GIRTH  (VilhjalmsgjorS),  apparently  a  ring  on  a 
round  shield  made  of  star-shaped  (stirndr)  ornaments;  origin 
of  the  term  unknown  to  us,  iii.  48310 

WIND-BOARD  (vind-borSi),  the  side  of  a  ship  exposed  to  the 
wind;  hence,  to  be  on  the  wind-board,  to  expose  one's  self, 
to  bear  the  brunt,  iii.  44816 

WINDLASS  (vindass,  but  the  English  form  comes  from  vindil- 
ass),  lit.  turning  beam,  a  capstan,  ii.  3i5 

WINDOW  (gluggr),  a  hole,  opening;  three  such  made  on  the 
howe  of  Frey  at  Upsala,  i.  2321    See  Gluggr  under  House. 

WINTER  (vetr),  the  standing  term  for  a  year  of  twelve  calendar 
months,  exceedingly  frequent. 

WINTER-NIGHTS  (vetrnsetr), see  Saga  Library,i.  182.  Thorkel 
Fosterfather's  sail  from  Orkney  to  Norway  after  winter-nights 
unusually  late  in  the  season;  hence  the  notice  that  all  the 
same  he  arrived  at  his  destination  '  safe  and  sound,'  ii.  i7814.l7 
— blood-offerings  for  the  bettering  of  the  year  attended  by 
multitudes  of  people  at  Winternights  in  Inner  Thrandheim, 
i.e.,  chiefly  at  the  temple  of  Mere,  i934-12— Magnus  the  Blind 
and  Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon  make  their  fatal  raid  on  Norway 
from  Denmark,  1139,  near  to  Winternights.  iii.  36i2S 

WITCHCRAFT,  see  Wizardry. 

WITCH-WIFE  (seiSkona,  volva),  see  Wizardry. 

WIZARDRY  (fjolkyngi,  galdr,  seiEr),  sorcery,  witchcraft,  spell- 


wiz] 


Index  III  491 


craft,  etc.  The  primary  source  of  this  '  art '  (tyrott)  is  fjolkyngi, 
manifold  knowledge  out  of  the  common  and  miraculous  to 
the  multitude,  put  into  practice  on  the  elements  of  nature  or 
on  the  concerns  of  life.  It  is  of  divine,  specially  Odinic, 
origin,  for  Odin  was  pre-eminently  wise  in  wizardry  (fjolkunn- 
ugr),  i.  i513 — all  the  craft  (ij:r6tt)  of  his  wizardry  proceeded 
from  his  knowledge  of  runes  (runar),  magic  emblems,  with 
the  secret  power  of  an  agent,  and  from  his  knowledge  of  the 
songs  which  are  called  galdrar  (from  galdr,  chant),  enchant- 
ment, wizard  songs  (verb:  gala,  gdl,  galinn,  to  chant;  to  be- 
witch; galinn  as  ad.  bewitched),  i825.26 — putting  this  know- 
ledge into  use  he  became  the  head  and  fountain  of  the 
practical  sorcery  of  all  later  times:  over  Mimir's  head  he 
sang  words  of  wizardry  (kva'S  far  yfir  galdra),  and  gave  it 
such  might  (magnaSi  sva)  that  it  spake  to  him  and  told  him 
many  hidden  matters,  i415.19 — he  waked  up  dead  men  from 
the  earth,  i8ls.19 — he  knew  lays  (lj6^  =  (  songs  of  wizardry') 
whereby  the  earth  opened  before  him,  and  sheer  rocks  (bjorg) 
and  mounds  (haugar,  burial  mounds),  and  he  knew  how  to 
bind  with  words  alone  (meS  orftum  einum)  whoso  might  be 
found  dwelling  therein,  i91G.17 — Odin  knew  how  by  his  magic 
art  to  bring  about  optic  illusions  (sjon-hverfing,  'cunning 
tricks '),  which  he  practised  much  in  his  dealings  with  Gylvi 
in  Sweden,  i619.20 — a  kindred  development  of  the  art  was  his 
knowing  how  to  change  shape  and  hue  (hann  skipti  likjum 
ok  litum)  in  any  wise  that  he  would,  I715.18 — and  a  similar 
though  not  identical  act  was  that  of  changing  skin  (skipta 
homum,  from  hamr,  the  whole  skin  of  an  animal  showing  in 
a  somewhat  veiled  manner  its  form)  in  such  a  way  that  his 
body  lay  as  in  sleep,  or  in  death,  while  he  himself  was  a  fowl, 
or  a  four-footed  beast,  a  fish,  or  a  worm,  going  anywhere  he 
pleased  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,  i85.9 — on  his  enemies  he 
could  effect  somewhat  similar  changes,  making  them,  in  the 
midst  of  a  battle,  blind  or  deaf,  or  smitten  by  fear,  and  their 
weapons  dull  as  sticks  of  wood  (vendir,  wands),  i726.29 — by 
enchantment  he  had  taught  his  two  ravens  speech  (tamit  viS 
mal),  and,  of  course,  imbued  them  with  reason,  so  that  they 
could  tell  him  many  news  from  the  various  countries  they 
flew  into  at  his  behest,  i822.24 — the  highest  pitch  to  which  the 
art  of  galdr  could  be  carried  was  the  seiftr,  '  spell-craft '  (a 


49 2  Index  III  [wiz 

weird  kind  of  chant  performed  seemingly  under  cover  of 
nightly  darkness).  In  this  art,  'wherewith  went  most  might,' 
Odin  was  wise  and  practised;  through  it  he  got  to  know 
the  fate  of  men,  and  the  secrets  of  things  not  yet  come 
to  pass;  by  it  he  knew  how  to  work  for  men  bane,  or  ill- 
hap,  or  ill-heal,  and  to  take  wit  or  strength  from  men  and 
give  them  to  others,  i827-i93 — all  these  magic  arts,  or,  at 
least,  '  the  more  part  of  his  cunning,'  Odin  taught  to  the 
temple  priests,  i9i6.l7 — wherefore  are  the  As-folk  called  smiths 
of  wizardry  (galdrasmi^ir),  i826.27 — and  thence  has  sorcery 
(fjolkyngi)  spread  far  and  wide  and  endured  long,  i91&.20 — as 
to  the  sei^r,  Snorri  says  that  Freya,  of  the  tribe  of  the  Vanir, 
was  the  first  to  teach  it  among  the  As-folk,  but  he  adds 
'according  to  the  wont  of  the  Vanir,'  which  seems  to  mean 
that  the  Vanir  knew  a  kind  of  spell-craft  peculiar  to  them- 
selves, i423.24 — that  would  be  a  sei^r  connected  with  the  cult 
of  Frey,  the  deity  of  productiveness  and  fertility,  and  explain 
Snorri's  statement  that  with  '  this  sorcery  goes  so  much 
lewdness  that  it  was  not  thought  to  be  without  shame  for 
menfolk  to  deal  therein,  so  that  cunning  (i]?r6tt)  was  taught 
to  the  temple  priestesses,'  i93.7 — Wizardry  practised  by  man: 
in  '  Heimskringla,'  as  in  the  saga  literature  throughout, 
wizardry,  especially  the  sei^r,  figures  as  a  national  accom- 
plishment of  the  Finns  (Lapps),  and  in  nearly  every  case  men- 
tioned a  Finnish  origin  can  be  traced.  Huld,  a  Finnish 
sorceress,  sefiSkona,  is  bought  by  queen  Drift  to  bring  her 
(Drift's)  faithless  husband,  Vanlandi,  by  means  of  spell-agency, 
to  Finland,  or  else  to  kill  him.  On  Huld's  setting  about  the 
spell-work  (er  sei'Sr  var  framiftr),  Vanland  fell  into  great 
yearning  to  go  to  Finland,  and,  being  prevented  by  his 
counsellors,  he  was  seized  with  irresistible  sleepiness,  and  in 
his  sleep  a  nightmare  (mara)  of  Huld's  creation  trod  him  to 
death,  i.  2  72.18 — probably  by  the  aid  of  Huld  the  stepmother 
of  Vanlandi's  grandson,  Domald,  caused  a  spell  of  evil  luck 
to  be  launched  against  the  latter  (let  sftSa  at  honum  6gaefu), 
2  810.11 — Huld,  too,  was  the  means  of  imparting  some  of  her 
own  spell-power  to  Gisl  and  Ondur,  Visbur's  sons,  whose 
uttered  threat  to  their  father  that  their  mother's  golden  neck- 
lace should  be  the  bane  of  the  best  man  of  his  kin  took 
effect  on  his  descendant  Agni,  28n.17  347.12 — by  further  spell- 


wiz] 


Index  III  493 


work  she  imbued  these  youths  of  twelve  and  thirteen  with 
power  to  slay  their  father,  and  declared  unto  them,  at  the 
same  time,  that  she  would  make  her  spells  so  effective  as  to 
make  parricidal  fatality  a  mark  of  the  Yngling  race,  all  which 
came  true,  2  817.26 — Finnish  wizardry  plays  a  great  part  in  the 
reigns  of  Halfdan  the  Black,  Harald  Hairfair,  and  Eric 
Bloodaxe:  a  wizard  (margfr6:Sr)  Finn,  probably  Swasi,  re- 
moved all  the  Yule  fare  and  drink  withal  from  the  feast  table 
of  Halfdan  the  Black,  8513.17  20.21  862.4 — Swasi  and  his  daughter 
Snowfair's  bewitchment  of  Harald  Hairfair  (love-potion),  i  iq9- 
120 — Gunnhild,  Eric  Bloodaxe's  queen,  learns  the  art  (kunn- 
usta)  of  sorcery  from  two  Finns  up  in  the  wilderness,  who 
were  so  mighty  wizards  that  their  angry  glance  would  turn 
the  earth's  inside  out,  kill  everything  quick  it  fell  on,  and  in 
their  hour  of  death  did  bring  about  thunder  and  lightning, 
12  99-10  18-21  I3°2i-23 — by  some  magic  dust,  however,  Gunnhild 
knew  how  to  lead  these  wizards  off  their  scent  and  render 
people  invisible  to  them,  i2925.33 — this,  the  only  magic  charm 
mentioned  in  '  Heimskringla,' was  also  used  by  Thorir  Hound 
in  his  retreat  from  the  plundered  sanctuary  of  Jomali  in 
Biarmland,  ii.  2623^263^ — Gunnhild  remained  addicted  to 
wizardry  all  her  life,  1453 — Queen  Snowfair's  son,  Rognvald 
Straightleg,  learnt  wizardry,  and  became  a  spell- worker,  133^ 
— but  the  deception  practised  by  Snowfair  on  Harald  set  him 
sternly  against  wizards,  and  by  his  order  Eric  Bloodaxe  burnt 
Rognvald.  with  eighty  spell-workers,  in  his  house,  i33s.25 — 
Vitgeir,  the  wizard  of  Hordland,  was  apparently  of  the  Finnish 
school,  i339.20 — Queen  Snowfair's  great-grandson,  Eyvind 
Wellspring,  was  the  most  prominent  wizard  in  Olaf  Trygg- 
vison's  reign;  he  made  for  himself  and  his  fellow-wizards  a 
huli^s-hjalmr,  lit.  '  hiding  helmet,'  a  '  wrapping  of  dimness  ' 
and  thick  fog,  so  that  they  might  not  be  seen,  evidently  a 
device  akin  to  Gunnhild's  and  Thorir  Hound's  dust-be- 
wilderment, 31308-3143 — Olaf  Tryggvison's  dealings  with  Ey- 
vind and  his  gang,  3i218-3i425 — Eyvind  Rentcheek  declared 
that  he  was  a  ghost  (andi),  quickened  in  a  man's  body  by 
cunning  of  the  Finns,  'and  my  father  and  mother  might 
have  no  child  before  that,'  32815_18 — Raud  the  Strong,  a  Ha- 
logalander,  was  a  great  wizard,  his  knowledge  of  the  art  being 
evidently  derived  from  Finns,  who  always  attended  him  in 


494  Index  III  [wiz 

great  number  whenever  he  wanted,  329m7 — he  always  'had 
wind  at  will  whithersoever  he  would  sail,  which  thing  came 
from  his  wizardry,'  3304.5 — he  knew  how  to  raise  and  to  keep 
up  as  long  as  he  wanted  a  storm  to  keep  pursuers  at  bay,  but 
was  beaten  at  that  game  by  Bishop  Sigurd's  application  of 
certain  elements  made  use  of  in  the  Christian  cult,  3315- 
332i3 — Finns   with   their  sorcery  made  in  the   night   wild 
weather  and  storm  at  sea  against  Olaf  the  Holy,  but  his  good 
luck  prevailed  against  their  wizardry,  ii.  io18.24 — the  wizard 
(kunngr  ma^r)  whom  Harald  Gormson  engaged  to  go  '  shape- 
changed  '  (i   hamfdrum)   to   Iceland,   turned  into  a  whale 
(while  his  own  body  remained  behind  as  dead  in  the  mean- 
while, cf.  Odin's  wizardry  above),  was,  doubtless,  by  Snorri 
looked  upon  as  a  Finn,  i.  26822-26921 — story-tellers  must  also 
have  taken  for  granted  that  the  Thrandheimers  engaged  a 
Finnish  agent  for  such  a  supreme  effort  of  spell-craft  as  to 
bewitch  '  three   man-wits '  into   their   king,  the  dog   Saur, 
which,  however,  resulted  in  only  every  third  of  his  utterances 
being  an  articulate  word,  the  other  two  being  barks,  i6i28.30 
— presumably  also  the  woman  skilled  in  wizardry  who  hid 
Gunnstein  in  Longwick  from  Thorir  Hound's  search  had 
learnt  her  art  from  her  close  neighbours  the  Finns,  or  was  a 
Finnwoman  herself  (cf.  Gunnhild's  and  Thorir  Hound's  dust- 
bags and  Eyvind's  '  hiding-helmet '  above),  ii.  26616.1S — inde- 
pendent, apparently,  of  Finnish  influence  was  the  wizardry  of 
K.  Skiold  of  Varna  in  south-eastern  Norway,  who  by  waving 
his  mantle  over  his  head  and  blowing  at  the  same  time, 
charmed  up  a  storm,  i.  682l3.27  6c)5.6 — more  Odinic,  it  would 
seem,  than  Finnish  in  its  origin  was  the  wizard  custom  of 
sitting  out  (sitja  liti),  which  must  be  mentioned  at  some 
length  because  '  Heimskringla's '  reference  to  it  is  the  earliest 
on  record,  and  the  dictionaries  have  overlooked  the  phrase, 
nor  is  the  passage  in  Hkr.  referred  to  either  by  Arnason  in 
'  Isl.  )5J6Ssogur,'  nor  by  Maurer  in  his  '  Isl.  Volkssagen  der 
Gegenwart.'   Gunnhild,  the  fostermother  of  Hakon  Shoulder- 
broad  let   'Sit  Out'  for  victory  to  Hakon;  but  'It'  (Jjat) 
showed  out  (vitra^i)  that  they  should  fight  with  King  Ingi 
'  by  night '  and  never  by  day.  .  .  .  '  Thordis  Skeggja  {i.e.  Axe) 
is  named  the  woman '  who  '  Sat  Out,'  iii.  424^ — to  sit  out 
meant  to  spend  a  whole  night  in  conjuring  up  what  our  text 


wiz — wor]  Index  III  495 

calls  //,  that  is,  some  agent  of  darkness  in  order  to  obtain 
information  of  things  beyond  the  ken  of  those  on  whose 
behalf  the  sitting  out  was  undertaken.  The  sitting  out  re- 
minds of  Odin's  habit '  to  wake  up  dead  men  from  the  earth  ' 
— always  associated  with  night  time — and  '  to  sit  under  men 
hanged,'  or  having  converse  with  the  dead  (i.  i819.20).  The 
act  itself  was  called  dti-seta.  The  ceremony  of  it  as  it  has 
maintained  itself  in  Icelandic  folk-lore  is  described  in  Ar- 
nason's  'Isl.  jTJoftsogur,'  i.  436.  The  intending  sitter-out 
must  take  with  him  a  grey  cat  (Freya's  attribute),  a  grey 
sheepskin,  the  hide  of  a  walrus  or  an  old  ox,  and  an  axe. 
He  must  cover  himself  carefully  up  with  the  hide  and  stare 
fixedly  in  the  edge  of  the  axe,  and  look  neither  to  right 
nor  left  whatever  happens.  If  he  makes  no  mistake  his  end 
is  gained.  Here  the  axe,  in  an  unaccountable  way,  drives  the 
cat  out  of  the  ceremony,  and  is  made  to  serve  a  purpose  it 
cannot  serve,  for  no  eye  can  see  the  edge  of  it  in  the  dark, 
while  the  eyes  of  the  cat  are  visible  enough. — To  the  notice 
quoted  above  Snorri  adds,  that  people  tell  (that  Thordis 
skeggja  sat  out),  '  but  a  proof  thereof  I  know  not.'  Snorri,  or 
his  authority,  therefore,  heard  the  story  as  a  current  folk-lore 
tale,  but  did  not  adopt  it  from  any  authentic  historical  source. 
We  draw  the  conclusion  that  the  modern  folklore  attribute 
of  a  Sitter-Out,  the  axe,  a  translation  of  skeggja,  is  the  last 
that  still  remains  of  the  old  tale  of  Thordis  as  current  in  the 
thirteenth  century  in  Iceland. 

WOLF  (vargr),  the  roasted  heart  of  a  wolf,  when  eaten,  makes 
a  man  cruel-hearted  and  evil-minded,  i.  55o8-562 

WOMAN  (kona),  in  medical  charge  of  wounded  warriors,  see 
Leech. 

WONDERS  (undr),  at  Kings'  Rock  from  the  Lord's  night 
(Sunday)  next  after  Easter  week,  i.e.,  April  14th,  unto  Ascen- 
sion day,  May  16th,  1135,  iii.  325i2-23 

WOOD-BUTTER  (viSsmjor),  vegetable  oil,  iii.  3723., 

WOODLAND-MEN  (markamenn),  outlaws  living  in  wild  woods 
beyond  the  pale  of  the  law,  ii.  4197;  rendered  'markmen,' 
39325-26  39527 — different  from  the  '  men  of  the  Marklands  '  or 
inhabitants  of  Marks  or  Marches,  the  boundary  districts  be- 
tween south-eastern  Norway  and  Sweden,  iii.  2  2623 

WORD-CRY  (ortStak),  watchword,  q.  v. 


496  Index  III         [vvor — yea 

WORM  (ormr),  1.  a  maggot,  i.  i2o27ii.  2<&x  16 — 2,  snake,  i.  26831 
— 3,  a  dragon,  specially  a  flying  dragon,  a  name  given  to  a 
certain  class  of  warships,  see  Ships,  2. 

WORTS  (urtir),  herbs,  used  by  Odin  for  embalming,  i.  i416 

WRIT-SENDING  (ritsending),  see  Letters. 

WYTE  (vita),  to  blame,  ii.  336^ 

YARD  (garSr),  enclosed  space  where  the  privy  was  erected: 
go  into  the  yard  (ganga  til  garfts),  to  go  nature's  errand, 

"•  1 2 72i  23  I29r 
YEAR  (ar),  excepting  in  one  instance,  i.  524  where  'year,'  a 

period  of  twelve  calendar  months,  depends  on  a  foreign 
source,  the  term  signifies  invariably  in  'Heimskringla,'  annona, 
the  year's  yield,  season  in  respect  of  plenty  or  scarcity, 
harvest,  while  year  =  annus  is  invariably  expressed  by  winter 
(vetr).  As  ar  simply  meant  good  harvest,  though  sometimes 
epithets  such  as  gott,  mikit,  are  added,  so  hallseri  and  oaran 
signified  bad  harvest,  famine  season.  'Ar,  the  season's  yield, 
was  in  the  heathen  North  regarded  as  the  response  of  a  god 
or  the  gods  to  the  blood  offerings  which  at  the  yearly  festivals 
were  made  for  it  (cf.  Blood-offerings  and  Seasons).  The 
nature  of  this  response  was  attributed  in  primitive  paganism 
to  the  good  or  bad  favour  in  which  the  ruler  of  the  people 
stood  with  the  gods,  which,  beside  other  proofs,  shows  that 
the  lord  of  the  people  was  the  High  Priest  at  blood-offering 
ceremonies  and,  as  such,  the  agent  to  whom  the  divine  will 
was  directly  signified  by  the  harvest  of  the  season. — Gener- 
ally ar  means  good  season,  good  yield,  good  harvest:  autumn 
sacrifices  were  made  for  '  good  year '  (bl6ta  i  m6ti  vetri  til 
ars),  i.  2o18 — in  Niord's  days  were  years  of  all  kinds  of  plenty 
so  great  that  the  Swedes  trowed  that  Niord  swayed  the 
plenty  of  the  year  (a  hans  dogum  var  allskonar  ar  sva  mikit, 
at  Sviar  triiSSu  J>vi,  at  Njorftr  reSi  fyrir  ari),  221V14 — Frey  was 
happy  in  good  years  (hann  var  arsaell),  2225 — in  his  days  were 
plenteous  years  throughout  all  lands  (fa  var  ok  ar  um  oil 
lond),  230 — the  strength  of  a  belief  in  a  direct  relation  between 
a  ruler  whose  reign  was  blessed  with  good  harvests  and  the 
gods  is  interestingly  evidenced  in  the  case  of  K.  Halfdan 
the  Black.  '  He  had  been  of  all  others  a  king  of  plenteous 
years '  (allra  konunga  arsselastr),  and  when  he  dies,  goes  to 
Odin,  to  the  gods,  the  four  folklands  of  his  kingdom,  after 


yul] 


Index  III  497 


earnest  striving,  secured  a  fourth  part  each  of  his  body  for 
burial,  deeming  that  they  who  got  it  (his  body)  might  look 
to  have  plenteous  years  therewith  (fdtti  fat  vera  arvrent 
J>eim  er  naeSi),  8623.31— a  notable  case  of  belief  in  interces- 
sion—plenteous season  (ar  mikit),  i6o22.,3  (arferS  g6B),  i2  2s 
174m— right  good  year  (mikit  ar),  iii.  i9620.21— good  increase 
(ar),  3io1T — a  direct  consequence  of  the  immediate  relations 
between  the  high  priest  and  the  divinity  was  the  sacrificing 
by  a  suffering  people,  for  propitiatory  purposes,  the  lord  to 
whom  the  gods  denied  their  harvest  favours:  Domald,  2o10- 
304  Olaf  Treeshaver,  666.2S— this  was  especially  the  case 
among  the  agriculturing  Swedes  who,  Snorri  says :  '  are  wont 
to  lay  upon  their  kings  both  plenty  and  famine '  (Sviar  eru 
vanir  at  kenna  konungi  basSi  ar  ok  halted),  66s.n  and  only 
to  Sweden  are  confined  the  cases  of  kings  sacrificed  for 
the  bettering  of  bad  harvests.  However,  the  fate  of  Tree- 
shaver  set  the  Swedes  thinking,  and  they  came  to  the  con- 
clusion that  the  king  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  year's 
harvest,  673.7— no  king  after  Treeshaver's  day  shares  his 
fate. 

YULE,  YULE-TIDE  (J61,  plur.,  O.E.  geol,  geoh(h)ol,  Mod. 
Scand.  Jul,  by  Falk  and  Torp, '  Etym.  Ordbog,'  339,  connected 
through  prim.  Germ.  *jehwla-  and  *je(g)wla  =  Indo.-Germ. 
*jegelo-  with  Lat.  jocus.  '  In  that  case  the  word  has  indicated 
the  feast  as  a  kind  of  Saturnalia '),  the  great  heathen  festivity 
of  the  winter  season,  i.  8513  1095  n9s.9  i6i37— held  at  Mid- 
winter-night, Jan.  1 2th,  for  three  days,  arid  thus  identical 
with  the  feast  of  the  midwinter  sacrifice,  i647.10— Hakon 
the  Good  ordained  by  law  that  it  should  be  held  at  the  same 
time  the  Christians  celebrated  their  Yule,  i643.v  cf.  i7o10- 
1717— Yule  Eve  (jola-aptann,  j61akveld),  Dec.  24th,  stated 
to  have  been  observed  as  a  day  of  fast  in  Norway,  iii.  2  9424.25 
—outgoing,  the  last,  day  of  Yule  (affara-dagr  j61a),  the  7th 
of  Jan.,  iii.  322^  420^  where  the  proof  that  Jan.  7th,  not 
Jan.  13th,  i.e.,  'the  20th  day  of  Yule,'  is  meant  is  conclusive: 
Gregory  arrived  at  Force  on  the  thirteenth  day  of  Yule  =  Jan. 
6th;  he  stayed  there  the  night  and  went  to  matins  on  the  last 
day  of  Yule;  this  was  on  a  bath-day,  i.e.,  Saturday,  on  which, 
in  the  year  1161,  the  year  in  question,  the  7th  of  January  fell 
— the  sociable  observation  of  the  high  tide  was  called  Yule- 
vr.  kk 


498  Index  III  [yul 

bidding  (jdlabo'S),  ii.  79n  i952-5  or  Yule-feast  (j61abo^,  j61a- 
veizla),  i.  i7o10  ii.  4825.27  7Qn  2153  22°u  3373  &•  i8381— from 
the  most  prominent  feature  of  the  celebration  the  feast  took 
the  name  of  Yule-drinking  (j61a-drykkja),  ii.  295^-296^  iii. 
42  218 — for  the  eighth  day  of  the  festivity,  Jan.  1st,  were  re- 
served Olaf  the  Holy's  Yule-gifts  (j61a-gjafir,  sing,  jola-gjof), 
ii-  7929  3373-28 — on  account  of  the  sanctity  of  the  feast,  fighting 
was  shunned  and  work  abstained  from  during  the  holiest  days 
of  it,  iii.  32i29.30  322,, — useful  references  to  Yule  as  a  chrono- 
logical landmark  are  frequently  made,  ii.  5os  5^  5421  ioi21 

!49e  15 %  282i7  ^  32Iso  3229  4i5si  42°r2  450,5  46o5  48410 

Yule-tax  of  a  special  kind  imposed  by  K.  Svein  Alfivason, 
called  Yule-gifts,  iii.  i8331  2051S  is  described  under  its  official 
name :  Pasture  tod,  q.v. 


ICELANDIC  TERMS  DEALT  WITH  IN  THE 
PRECEDING  INDEX. 


Abbadi's,  see  Abbess. 

Affaradagr  jola— Yule. 

'Aheit — Vow. 

Aka — Carting. 

Akbraut — Sledge-road. 

Akkeri — Anchor;  Ships  4. 

Akrger"Si — Acre-garth. 

Albrynja'Sr — All-byrnied. 

Alfa-blot — Elf  worship. 

Alin— Ell. 

Almennings      lei<Sangr  —  All- 
folk-hosting. 

Almr — Bow;  Weapons  2. 

Altari — Altar. 

AltarisklarSi — Altar  cloth. 

Aiding — Things,  Iceland. 

'Alogur — Taillage. 

Ambatt — Bondwoman. 

'Anasdtt — Aun's  sickness. 

'AnauS  —  Bond-slaves    (state 
of). 

'Anau^igt  folk — Bondfolk, 
Slaves. 

Andi — Ghost. 

Andri — Snowshoes. 

Aptansongr — Evensong. 

'Ar — Oar;  Ships  4. 

'Ar— Year. 

ArablbS — Oar. 


'Arabur'Sr,  see  Oar. 

Argsgeldingr — Ploughhorse. 

'ArferS — Year. 

Arinn — Hearth;  House  2. 

Arka — Chest. 

'ArmaSr — Bailiff,  Steward. 

Armenning — Bailiffry,  Stew- 
ardship. 

'Arsaell — Year. 

'Arvsent — Year. 

Aska — Ashes. 

Askr — Ask. 

'Ass — Rooftree;  House  2. 

Ausa  vatni— Sprinkling. 

Austrfarar  skip.  Mast-head 
castle. 

Austrriim  —  Bailing  place; 
Ships  4. 

Bagall— Staff. 

Baka — Bake. 

Bakask — Eldar;  House  2. 

Bakbor^i — Larboard ;  Ships  4. 

Bakkastokkar — Slips;  Ships  4. 

Bal— Bale. 

Banadrykkr — Deadly  drink. 

Banamenn — Banesmen. 

BarS — Beak,  Bows;  Ships  4. 

BarSi  —  Beardling,  Beaked- 
ship;  Ships  4. 


5oo 


Index  III 


-Mountain  giant. 


Barki,  see  Bark ;  Ships  3. 

Batr — Boat;  Ships  3. 

Bauga-T^r — Ring-Tyr. 

Bautasteinar — Stones. 

Beit — Boat;  Ships  3. 

Bera   skip   borSi — Shipbuild- 
ing; Ships  4. 

Bera  lit  born — Casting  out  of 
children. 

Bergrisi- 

Berserkr — Bareserk. 

Berserksgangr  —  Bareserks- 
gang. 

Binda — Grapple;  Ships  4. 

Binda  svardogum — Oath. 

Biskup — Bishop. 

Biskupa — Confirm. 

Bitull— Bit. 

Bjalfi — Coat;  Dress,  2. 

Bjanak — Blessing. 

Bjarkeyjarrettr  —  Birchisle- 
right. 

Bjarkamal — Bjarklay;  Poems. 

Bjarnhe^inn — Bareserk. 

Bj6rr — Beaverskin. 

Blasa — Blow. 

B16«lat— Bloodletting. 

Blo^orn — Erne. 

B16t  —  Blood-offerings,   Sacri- 
fice. 

B16t-bollar— Blood-bowls. 

Bldtgy^ja — Temple  priestess. 

B16thus — Blood-offerings  2. 

Blotspann — Lot. 

B16tveizlur — Bloodfeasts,    cf. 
Blood-offerings  2. 

Bogastrengr — Bow;    Weapons 
2. 

Bogi — Bow;  Weapons  2. 

B6k— Book. 


Bondi,  see  Bonder,  Franklin. 
BorS — Board,Table;  House 2. 

,,    — Bulwarks;  Ships  4. 

„   — Gunwale;  Ships  4. 
BorSbitnaSr  —  Board-array; 

House,  2. 
BorSdukr  —  Table-cloth; 

House  2. 
BorSker— Board-bowls;  House 

2. 
Borg — Burg. 
B6ti — Boot;  Dress  2. 
Bra/3 — Tar;  Ships  4. 
Bragafull — Bragi  cup. 
Brand-n6r — N6r;  Ships  3. 
Brandr — Bows,  Prow;  Ships  4. 
,,     —Brand;  Weapons  2. 
Brau^ — Bread. 
BrauSkass — Bread-basket. 
Bref — Letters. 
Brei^ox — Axe;  Weapons  2. 
Brenna — Arson,  Burials. 
Brennisteinn — Brimstone. 
Broddr — Spear;  Weapons  2. 
BrottferSarol — Drinking. 
Brii — Bridge. 

BrifShlaup,  Brullaup — Bridal- 
feast,  Wedding. 
Brunaold — Age,  Burials. 
Brunnr — Well. 
Bryggja— Bridge. 

„      — Pier;  Ships  4. 
„      — Gangway;  Ships  4. 
Bryggjulaegi — Pier;  Ships  4. 
BryggjusporSr  —  Pierhead; 

Ships  4. 
Brynja — Byrny;  Weapons  1. 
Broekr — Breeches;  Dress. 
Bilandi — Bonder. 
Bu3— Booth. 


Index  III 


501 


Bii'Sarli'S,  see  Booth-fellows. 
BiiLJarmaSr — Booth-man. 
BirSunautr — Booth-mate. 
Bukkr — He-goat. 
Biikot — Cot-stead. 
Buna^ r — Raiment;  Dress  2. 

„      — Gear,    House-gear; 
House  2. 

„      — Gear;  Ships  4. 
Busysla — Husbandry. 
Biiza — Buss;  Ships  3. 
Buzuskip — Buss  ship;  Ships  3. 
Byjarmenn — By-men. 
ByrSingr — Ship    of    burden; 

Ships  3. 
Bosjarbdt — Town-boon. 
BoekisiVS — Beech-board;  Ships 

2. 
Bcetr — Atonement,  Weregild. 
DagverSr — Daymeal. 
Dalr— Dale. 

Darr — Spear;  Weapons  2. 
Darra'Sr — Spear;  Weapons  2. 
Dau^a  -  drukkinn  —  Dead  - 

drunk;  Drinking. 
Diki — Mote;  Castle. 
Dill— Brand. 
Dis — Goddess. 
Disabl6t — Blood-offerings  1. 
Disarsalr — Hall  of  goddesses. 
D6mr — Judgment. 
Dragkyrtill — Kirtle;  Dress  2. 
Draglaun — Dragpay;  Ships  2. 
Drambhosur — Hose;  Dress  2. 
Draumr — Dream. 
Dreki — Drake, Dragon;Ships  3. 
Drekka  hvirfing  —  To  drink 

'Gildbrotherwise';  Gilds. 
Drekka    mann     af    stokki — 

Drinking. 


Drott,  see  Drott. 

Drottins  nott — Lord's  night. 

Drykkja — Drinking. 

Drykkr — Drink. 

Drasplingr — Flock. 

Dun — Down  pillow. 

Dvergar — Dwarfs. 

Dyfliza — Prison. 

Dyngja — Bower;  House  1. 

Dyrr — Door;  House  2. 

Dyrshorn — Bull's  horn. 

Donsk  tunga — Dane  tongue. 

ESla— Adder. 

Eggver — Egg  lair,  Haunt. 

ErSr— Oath. 

Eik — Oak;  Ships  3. 

Eikja — Oakie;  Ships  3. 

Einkamal — Oath. 

Einvigi — Single  combat. 

Eir — Brass. 

Eirpenningr — Copper  penny. 

Eldar — Fires;  House  2. 

Eldvirki — Tinderbox. 

Eptirbatr — Batr;  Ships  3. 

Erfi — Funeral  feast,  Grave  ale, 
Heirship  feast. 

Ergi — Spell. 

Erkibyskups      st611  —  Arch- 
bishop's chair. 

Ermar — Sleeves;  Dress  2. 

Eyrir — Ounce. 

Fafnir — Dragon. 

Fasta — Fasting. 

Fastna — Betroth. 

Fat — Vat;  Ships  4. 

Febsetr — Fee-boot. 

F£lag — Trade  partnership. 

Feldardalkr  —  Cloak  clasp; 
Dress  2. 

Feldr — Cloak,  Fell;  Dress  2. 


5°2 


Index  III 


Fella,  see  Shipbuilding;  Ships 

4- 

Fella  bl6tspan — Lot. 

Fengi — War  catch. 

Ferja — Ferry;  Ships  3. 

Festa — Moor,  Lash;  Ships  4. 

Festa — Surety. 

Festar — Betrothal. 

Festar — Hawsers,  moorings; 
Ships  4. 

Fetbreiftr- — Swords ;  Weapons 
2. 

Fetilstingr  —  Sword;  Wea- 
pons 4. 

Fetters — Fjotrar. 

FicSlari — Fiddler. 

Fingrgull — Finger-ring. 

FinnferS — Finnfare. 

Finngaldr — Finn  wizardry. 

Finnkaup — Finn  cheaping. 

Finnskattr — Finn  scat. 

Fiskiver — Fish  lair,  Haunt. 

Fit — Shanks. 

Fit-skuar — Shoes;  Dress,  2. 

Fjol — Shutter;  House  2. 

Fjolkunnigt  folk  —  Cunning 
folk. 

Fjolkyngi — Sorcery,  Wizardry. 

Fjotrar — Fetters. 

Flag^ — Troll-quean. 

Flaki — Flake  hurdle. 

Flaust — Ship;  Ships  3. 

Fleinn — Dart;  Weapons  2. 

Flesk — Swineflesh. 

Fley — Ship;  Ships  3. 

Flokkr— Flock. 

Flokksmenn — Flock  men. 

Flot — Dripping ;  Horse-flesh. 

Flytja  vi^u  —  Shipbuilding; 
Ships  4. 


Fnj6skr,  see  Touchwood. 
Formessa —  Foremass. 
Forn  kvarSi — Old  songs. 
Forstofa  —  Porch,    Forehall; 

House  2. 
F6stbrce:Sr — Fosterbrothers. 
Fdstrfa^ir — Fosterfather. 
Fotaskor — Rekkja;  House  2. 
F6tgangandi  raenn — Infantry. 
FdtgongulrS — Infantry. 
Fotpallr — Footpace. 
F6tr — Foot. 
Fdtskor — Footpace. 
Frambyggi  —  Forecastleman ; 

Ships  4. 
Framstafn  —  Forestem ;  Ships 

4- 
Frelsingi — Freedman. 

Frelsisol — Freedman. 

Frestr — Frist. 

Fri^land — Peace  land. 

FrrS-skjoldr  —  Peace   shield ; 

Warshield. 
Frjadagsfasta — Friday  fast. 
Frd^afriftr — Peace  of  Frofti. 
Fraendhagi — Kin-hay. 
Fugl — Fowl. 
Fuglari — Fowler. 
Fuglsrodd — Fowl. 
Full— Health  cup. 
Fullr  trunaSr — Oath. 
Fyrirriim — Forehold;  Ships  4. 
Fyrirrumsma^r  —  Forerooms- 

man;  Ships  4. 
Fyrirsongs-kapa  —  Foresong 

cope. 
Gaflak — Javelin;  Weapons  2. 
Galdr — Wizardry. 
GaldrasmicSir — Wizardry. 
GalerS — Galley;  Ships  3. 


Index  III 


503 


Galgatre,  see  Gallows  tree. 
Galgi — Gallows. 
Ganga  a  hond  e-m — Gang  un- 
der one's  hand. 
Ganga  til  garSs — Yard. 
Gangauppa — To  board;  Ships 

4- 
Gangdagar — Rogation  days. 
Gangdaga  -  Jung  —  Ganging- 

days'  Thing. 
GarSr — Garth,  Yard. 
Geirr — Spear;  Weapons  2. 
Geirsoddr — Spearpoint. 
Geisl— Staff. 
Gestir — Guests. 
Gjgja— Gig. 
Gigjari — Gigplayer. 
Gildi— Gilds. 
Gildra — Trap. 
Girasteinar — Gemstones. 
Ginandi       hofuS  —  Gaping 

heads;  Ships  4. 
Gisl — Hostage. 
Gislar — Borrows. 
Gjafir — Gifts. 
Gjald — Fine,  Tribute. 
Gjaldkeri — Rentmaster. 
Glo'Sarker — Censer. 
Gluggr — Window;  House  2. 
G163— Glad. 

G6Sar  hendr — Good  hands. 
G6S  klaeSi — Raiment;  Dress  2. 
Golf — Floor;  House  2. 
Gragas — Grey  goose. 
Gramr — Gram. 
GrasgarSr — Grassgarth. 
Gra  skinn — Grey  skins. 
Grautr — Grout. 
Gravara — Furs,  Grey  wares. 
GrerSa  har — Combing  hair. 


Grei^r,  see  Graithe. 

Greifi — Greve,  Reeve. 

GriS  seld — Safe  conduct. 

Gri^ungr — Bull. 

Grjdt — Stones;  Weapons  2. 

Grunnfaeri — Ground   holding, 

Ships  4. 
Gryta— Pot. 
Grof — Pit;  House  2. 
Grof  Drottins — St.  Sepulchre. 
Groptr — Tunnel;  Earth-house. 
Gu^sifjar — Gossip. 
Gu^vefr — Goodly  web. 
Gull— Gold. 
Gullhringr — Gold  ring. 
Gullinhjalti — Golden  hilt. 
Gullmen — Necklace. 
GullsmrSr — Goldsmith. 
Gy^ja — Temple  priestess. 
Gygr — Troll-quean. 
Gylt      hofuS — Heads       gilt ; 

Ships  4. 
Gyltr  so^ull — Horse. 
Gaefa — Luck. 
Gsetti — Dyrr;  House  2. 
Habrynja^r — High-byrnied. 
Hafskip — Ship     of     burden ; 

Ships  3. 
Haglkorn — Hailstone. 
Halfrymi — Half  berth;  Ships 

4- 

Hallaari — Famine,  Scarcity. 

Halmr — Golf;  House  2. 

Hals — Halse;  Beak,  Ships  4. 

Hamarr — Hammer. 

Hdmessa — Mass. 

Hamfor — Skin-changing  jour- 
ney. 

Hamingja — Luck. 

Hamla— Rowlock;  Ships  4. 


504 


Index  III 


Handfestr,  see  Handfasting. 

Handganga — Homage. 

Handgenginn   ma&  —  Liege- 
man. 

Handlaugar — Handbath. 

Handrif — Reef;  Ships  4. 

Handsal — Handsel. 

Handskot— Hand  shot. 

Handtygill— Sleeves;  Dress  2. 

Handox — Axe;  Weapons  2. 

Hapallr — High-dais;  House  2. 

Har — Hair. 

Har — Tholepin;  Ships  4. 

Harpa — Harp,  Harpshell. 

Harparar — Harp  players. 

Hasla — Holmgang. 

Hasla  voll — Hazelled  field;  ib. 

Hasasti — High  seat. 

HasastisborS — BorS;  House  2. 

Hasa?tiskista — Chest    of    the 
high  seat;  Ships  4. 

Hatift — Feast,  High  tide. 

Haugaold — Age,  Burials. 

Haugr  —  Barrow,       Howe, 
Mound,  Burials. 

Haugsta^r — Howe-stead. 

Haukar — Hawks. 

Hauldr — Franklin. 

Hefill — Reef;  Ships  4. 

Hei^it  folk— Heathen  folk. 

Hei'Snir  Blamenn — Heathen 
Bluemen. 

Heilagt — Hallowed. 

Heitstrenging — Vow. 

Hekla — Cloak;  Dress  2. 

Hel— Hell. 

Helgr — Holy  day,  Holy  tide. 

Helgr  ddmr — Relic. 

Hellir — Cave. 

HeraS — County. 


Hera^s-konungr,    see   County 
king. 

Herbergi — Chamber;  House  1. 

Herblastr — War  blast. 

Herboft — War  bidding. 

HerbirSir — War  booths. 

Herfang — War  catch. 

Herkonungar  —  Warkings ; 
Sea-kings. 

Herkumbl — War  token. 

Her6p — War  whoop. 

Herskip — Warship;  Ships  3. 

Herskjoldr — War  shield. 

Herspori — Caltrop;  Weapons 
2. 

Herteknir   menn  —  Wartaken 
men. 

Hertogi — Duke,  War-duke. 

Heror — War  arrow. 

HestalrS — Cavalry. 

Hestr — Horse. 

HestvorSr — Guard  on  horse- 
back. 

Heytjiiga — Hayfork. 

Hir^ — Body-guard,  Court. 

Hir^ma'Sr  —  Body-guard, 
Court  men. 

HirSsi^ir — Court  manners. 

HirSstefnur — Court  Councils. 

HirSstofa — Court  hall;  House 
1. 

HirSvenja— Court  manners. 

Hjallr— Stall. 

Hjalmr — Rick. 

Hjalmr — Helm(et);  Weapons 
1. 

Hjalmunvolr — Helm-pin,  Til- 
ler; Ships,  4. 

Hjupr — Coat;  Dress,  2. 

Hjorr — Sword;  Weapons  2. 


Index  III 


505 


Hla^a,  see  Barn;  House  1. 

HleborS — Leeboard;  Ships  4. 

Hleifr — Loaf. 

Hleypiskiita — Skiff;  Ships  3. 

HliS — Gate;  House  2. 

Hlif — Shield;  Weapons  1. 

Hlumr — Oar;  Ships  4. 

Hlunnr — Roller;  Ships  4. 

Hlutr— Lot. 

Hlyr — Bows;  Ships  4. 

Hlyrbirtr — Bows;  Ships  4. 

Hnisa — Porpoise. 

Hof — Godhouse,  Temple. 

Hofgo^ar — Temple  priests. 

Holmr — Holm;  Holmgang. 

Holmganga — ib. 

Horn — Horn. 

Hosur — Hose;  Dress  2. 

Hrafn — Raven. 

Hreinbjalfi — Coat;  Dress,  2. 
cf.  Byrny  in  fine;  Weapons 
1. 

Hreinn — Reindeer. 

Hreinstokur — Reindeer-skins. 

Hremsa— Arrow;  Weapons  2. 

Hringabrynja — Byrny;  Wea- 
pons 1. 

Hringr — Ring;  Sword,  Wea- 
pons 2. 

Hrjd^a — Clear  a  ship;  Ships 

4- 

Hross — Horse. 

Hrossa-slatr — Horseflesh. 

Hross-lifr— Horse-liver. 

Hryggjarstykki  —  Backbone- 
piece. 

Hiifa — Cap;  Dress  2. 

Hugrd — Rivet. 

Hunang — Honey. 

Hundr — Hound. 


HundraS,  see  Hundred. 

Hunds-soc) — Broth. 

Hunkastali — Masthead  castle : 
Ships  4. 

Hiinn — Cub. 

HurS — Dyrr;  House  2. 

Hus — House. 

Husfreyja — House-freya. 

Huskarlar — Housecarles. 

Huskarlahvot — Housecarles' 
whetting. 

Huskytja — Housecot;   House 
1. 

Hushing  —  House      Thing; 
Thing. 

Hvann-nj61i — Angelica. 

Hvann-njbla  trumba — Angeli- 
ca stalk. 

Hveiti — Wheat. 

Hvila — Bed;  House  2,  Ships 

A: 
HvirfingsbrcecSr  —  Drinking 

Brothers;  Gilds. 

Hvirfingsdrykkjur — Gilds. 

Hvitasunnudagr  —  Whitsun- 
day. 

Hvitava^ir — White  weeds. 

Hvit  skinn — Skins,  white. 

Hylja— Hyll. 

Hyrningr — Mitre. 

HofSafjol — Headboard;  Ships 

4- 

Hofn  —  Haven,       Harbour ; 

Ships  4. 
Hofu^smi'Sr  —  Shipbuilding  ; 

Ships  4. 
H6ggspj6t — Bill;  Weapons  2. 
Hoggstokkr — Hewing  block. 
Hoggun6tt — Hogmany  night. 
Hokun6tt— ib. 


506 


Index  III 


Holdr,  see  Hauldr. 

H611 — Hall;  House  i. 

Horr — Flax. 

Hottr — Hat;  Dress  2. 

'Ikorni — Squirrel. 

Ilbanda-brgekr  —  Breeches  ; 
Dress  2. 

Uliligr — Ugsome. 

Illyrmi — Reptiles. 

Innsigli — Seal. 

Innvi^ir — Thwarts  ;  Ships  4. 

'Ishogg —  Ice-hewing. 

T|>r6tt — Mastery,  Sports,  Wiz- 
ardry. 

JarSborg — Earth-burg. 

JarSfe — Buried  Treasure. 

JarShiis — Earth  house. 

Jarl — Earl. 

Jam — Chains,  Irons. 

JarnbarSi — Ironbeak  ;  Ships 
2. 

Jarnrekendr — Chains. 

Jartegnir — Miracles,  Tokens. 

J61— Yule. 

T61a-aptann — Yule. 

jdlaboS— Yule. 

Jbladrykkja — Yule. 

Jdlagjafir — Yule. 

J61aveizla — Yule. 

Jbreykr — Ride  reek. 

Ka^all — Cable;  Ships  4. 

Kalekr — Chalice. 

Kantara-kapa — Choir-cope. 

Kapa  —  Cape,  cloak,  coat ; 
Dress  2. 

Kapella — Chapel. 

Kappar — Champions. 

Kapp-drykkja — Drinking. 

Karfi — Ship  of  burden ;  Ships 
3- 


Kastali,  see  Castle,  cf.    castle, 

Ships,  4. 
KarlhoFSi— Carl's  Head. 
Kaupangr — Cheaping. 
KaupferSir  —  Chaffer    faring, 

Cheaping  voyages,  Trade. 
Kaupmenn — Chapmen. 
Kaupskip  —  Cheaping  ships; 

Ships  3. 
Kaupsta'Sir  — Cheapingsteads. 
Kaupstefna — Fair. 
Kefli— Gag. 

Kefiivdlr — Beam;  Weapons,  2. 
Kelpa— Otter. 
Kennimenn — Priests. 
Ker — Cup,  Tub,  Vat. 
Kerti — Candle. 
Kertisveinn — Candle  page. 
Kesja — Spear;  Weapons  2. 
Ketilhadda — Kettlebow. 
Ketill — Caldron. 
Kilting — Kilt. 
Kirkja — Church. 
Kirkjugar  c>s-  hli^ — Lichgate. 
Kista — Chest. 
Kjolr— Keel;  Ships  4. 
Klaustr— Cloister. 
Klubba— Club. 
Klukka— Bell. 
Klukkari — Bellringer. 
KlarSi  —  Raiment,  Robes; 

Dress. 
Knapi — Knave. 
Knapphofi5i — Knophead. 
Kne — Knee;  Ships  4. 
Knesetja — Knee-setting. 
Knifr — Knife. 
Knorr  —  Round    ship,    etc. ; 

Ships  3. 
Kona— Woman. 


Index  III 


507 


Konungr,  see  King. 
Konungs-bryggja — King. 
Konunsjs-bii  —  King,    Royal 


-King. 
-King. 


manors. 
Konungs-garSr- 
Konungs-la;gi — 
Konungs-menn — King's  men. 
Konungs  sakeyrir — King. 
Konungs  skyldir — King. 
Konungs  jjra^lar — Thrall. 
Konungs  vigsla — Coronation. 
Korduna  hosur — Hose ;  Dress. 
Korn — Corn. 

KornhuVSa — Barn;  House  1. 
Korr — Choir. 
Kotkarl — Cotcarle. 
Kraka — Crow. 
Krapparum — Mainhold;  Ships 

4- 
Kristinn  rettr — Canon  Law. 

Kristni —  Christianity. 

Kristni-spell — Christ's  scathe. 

Krists  menn — Christ's  men. 

Krokpallr — Cross  dais;  House 
2. 

Kr6kr — Crook;  Ships  4;  Barb, 
Arrow;  Weapons  2. 

Kross — Cross. 

Krossmenn — Crossmen. 

Kunna  vel  viS  boga — Archery. 

Kunna  vi^  ski^ — Snowshoes. 

Kunnusta  —  Cunning  ;  Wiz- 
ardry. 

Kussari — Corsair. 

Kveldri'Sa — Nightrider. 

Kverkasullr — Boilof  the  throat. 

Kvern — Quern. 

Kvernsteinn — Quernstone. 

Kvaefti — Poems. 

Ky"r — Cow. 


Kyrtill,  see  Kirtle;  Dress  0. 
Kyssa — Kiss. 

Kosungr — Doublet;  Dress  2. 
Lagnarskip — Net-boat ;    Ships 

3- 
Landaurar — Land  dues. 

Landauragjald  —  Landpenny 

geld. 
Landey^a — Landwaster. 
Landganga — Land-wending. 
Landsbiii — Tenant. 
Landskyldir — Land  dues. 
Landtjald — Land  tent,  Tent. 
LandvarSa — Landtoll. 
Landvarnarma^r —  Landward. 
Landvsettir — Land  spirits. 
Langafasta — Lent,  Longfast. 
Langbar'Si — Sword ;  Weapons 

2. 
Langfe^gatal — Telling   up  of 

forefathers. 
Langskip — Longship;  Ships  3. 
Langskips   buza  —  Longship 

buss;  Ships  3. 
Laufi— Sword;  Weapons  2. 
Laug — Bath. 
Laugardagr — Bath  day. 
Lauga  sik — Bathing. 
Taka  laugar — Manners. 
LavarSr — Loaf  ward. 
Leggja  hendr  i  hofuS — Laying 

hands  on. 
Leggja  hofuS  1  kne — Laying 

one's  head  on  another's  knee. 
LerSangr — Hosting. 
LeiSangrsmenn —  Hostbound 

men. 


Lei^sludrykkja 

drink. 
Leiftviti — Fine. 


Parting 


5o8 


Index  III 


Leiga,  see  Rent. 
Leikar — Plays,  Sports. 
Leikarar — Minstrels,  Players. 
Len — Fief,  Grants. 
Lendir  menn — Landed  men. 
Leyna — Laine. 

Leysingi — Freedman. 

Li'SsamnaSr — Hosting. 

LikferS — Corpse   fare,   Lyke- 
fare. 

Likkista — Chest,  Lyke  Chest. 

Lim — Lime. 

Ljo^a-smrSir — Lay-smiths. 

LjoSbyskup — Leodbishop. 

Ljori — Luffer;  House  2. 

Lo'Skapa  —  Cloak,       Fleece- 
cope,  Shag-cloak;  Dress  2. 

Logandi      brandar  —  Blazing 
firebrands. 

Lopt — Loft;  House  2. 

Loptsvalir — Gallery. 

LuSr — Horn,  Trumpet. 

LirSrsveinn — Hornswain. 

Ly'Sskylda— Liege  duty. 

LySskyldr — Liegeman. 

Lyngormr — Lingworm . 

Lypting — Poop;  Ships  4. 

Lsegi — Berth;  Ships  4. 

Laekning — Leechdom. 

Lseknir — Leech. 

Laeknislist — Leechcraft. 

LserSir  menn — Priests. 

Log — Laws. 

Log'Sir — Sword;  Weapons  2. 

Logma^r — Lawman. 

Logn — Lagnarskip;  Ships  3. 

Logretta — Lawcourt. 

LogsogumaSr  —  Speaker  -  at  - 
law. 

Logging — Law  Thing,  Thing. 


MaSr,  see  Liegeman. 
Mai — Measure;  Drinking. 
Malaspjdt — Bar-spear,    Spear; 

Weapons  2. 
Mali — War-service. 
Malstofa — Council  chamber. 
Malt — Malt. 
Man— Thrall. 
Manngjold — Thanegild. 
Mannjafna'Sr— Man  matching. 
Manntj6n — Mantyne. 
Mansal — Thrall  cheaping. 
Mara — Night-mare. 
MarkaSr— Market. 
Markamenn     —     Markmen, 

Woodland  men. 
Marka   sik  geirsoddi — Spear- 
point. 
Matbor^ — Bor3,  meat-board ; 

House  2. 
Matkaup — -Meat  cheaping. 
Men — Collar,  Necklace. 
Merki — Banner,    cf.    Banner; 
Ships  4. 

Merkisma^r — Banner-bearer. 

Merkistong — Bannerstaff. 

Merr — Horse. 

Messa — Mass. 

Messudagr — Mass  day. 

Messu  skru'Si — Mass  array. 

Met— Weights. 

MiSfasta—  Midlent. 

Mi3sumarsbl6t —  Blood-offer- 
ing 2. 

Mikla  gildi— Gilds. 

Minni — Health  cup. 

Mitr—  Mitre. 

MjaSarbytta — Cask  of  mead. 

MjoSdrykkja — Mead-horn. 

Mjo'Sr — Mead. 


Index  III 


509 


Mjdl,  see  Meal. 

Moldi— Mouldy. 

Mor — Mornir. 

MorSverk — Murder. 

M6t— Mote. 

Miigavetr — Throngwinter. 

Mundr — Dower,  cf.  Tilgjof. 

Mungat — Ale. 

Mungatsbytta — Beer  cask. 

Munklifi — Monk  cloister. 

Mils — Mouse. 

Muta — Bribe. 

Msekir — Glaive;  Weapons  2. 

Mselir — Measure. 

Mork — Mark. 

Morn — Mornir. 

Mornir — Mornir. 

Mosurbolli — Mazerbowl. 

Mottull  —  Cloak,        Mantle ; 

Dress  2. 
Mottull   a   tyglum  —  Mantle  ; 

Dress  2. 
Na^r— Adder. 
Nafnbdt — Name-boot. 
Nafnfesti — Namegift. 
Natta— (to)night. 
Nattserkr — Night  sark;  Dress. 
Naust — Boatshed;  Ships  4. 
Naut — Cattle,  Oxen. 
Nauthogg — Neat-stroke. 
Nautshu'S — Neat's  hide. 
Nefgildi — Nosegild. 
Nefnd — Levy. 
Nefste^i — Snout  anvil. 
Negl — Nails. 

Nesnam — Lifting  on  nesses. 
Ni3— Nith. 

NtfS — Nithe,  Scurvy  rhyme. 
NrSa — Benithe. 
NiSingskapr — Nithingship. 


Niftvisa,  see  Scurvy  rime. 

Non — Nones. 

Nona — Nones. 

N6r — Ships;  Ships  3. 

Norrcena — Northern  tongue. 

N6t— Net. 

Nunnusetr — Nuns'  seat. 

Naefrar — Birchbark. 

Nokkvi — Ship;  Ships  3. 

'OSal — Free  land,  Odal  lands. 

'O'Salborinn — Franklin. 

'OSalsma^r — Franklin. 

Ofn — Oven;  House  2. 

Ofnsteinar — Stones;  Weapons 
2. 

Omstofa  —  Hall  with  oven  ; 
House  1. 

OrStak— Watch-word,  Word- 
cry. 

Ormr  —  Dragon,  Maggot, 
Snake,  Worm. 

Ormrhinnlangi — Long  Worm ; 
Ships  2. 

Ormr  hinn  skammi  —  Short 
Worm;  Ships  2. 

OrrahrrS — Heathcock's  brunt. 

Orri — Heathcock. 

Otr— Otter. 

'Ottusongr — Matins. 

'Ottusongsmal — Matins. 

Pa'Sreimr — Hippodrome. 

Pallr — Dais;  Booth,  House  2. 

Pallstokkr — Dais;  House  2. 

Pallstra — Strawbed. 

Pell— Cloth,  Pall. 

PellskkeSi — Raiment;  Dress  2. 

Penningr — Penny. 

P16gr— Plough. 

P16gsland — Ploughland. 

Polutasvarf — Palace  spoil. 


5IQ 


Index  III 


Portgreifar,  see  Port  reves. 
Prestr — Masspriest,  Priest. 
Poddur — Paddocks. 
Ra/Suneyti — Council. 
Rausn  —  Forecastle,     work; 

Ships  4. 
RefSi— Cudgel,  Staff. 
Reformasott     —     Ringworm 

plague. 
Refsijnng — Thing  of  Escheat ; 

Thing. 
Regla — Rule. 
RerSa — Weighing. 
ReiSi      —      Gear,     Rigging, 

Shrouds;  Ships  4. 
Rekkja — Bed;  House  2,  Ships 

4- 

Rettarb6t — Lawboot. 

Reykelsi — Incense. 
Reyrbond  —  Reedbands, 

Arrow;  Weapons  2. 
Reyrteinn — Reed  wand. 
RfSa  hesta — Horse. 
Riddarar— Cavalry,  Riders. 
Riddari — Knight. 
RrSvolr — Cudgel. 
Risar — Giants. 
Rit — Shield;  Weapons  1. 
Ritsending — Writ-sending. 
Rjiipa — Ptarmigan. 
R6a — Rowing;  Ships  4. 
R6=Sa— Rood. 
Rd^r — Rowing;  Ships  4. 
R6:Srarferja  —  Rowing    ferry ; 

Ships  3. 
R6^rar-skip — Ships  3. 
Rd'Srar-skuta — Rowing  cutter; 

Ships  3. 
R6:Sukross — Rood. 
Rudda — Club,  Stake  of  wood. 


Rum,  see  Berth;  Ships  4. 

Riinar — Runes. 

Ry^ja  mork — Clearing  woods. 

Rygjart6 — Housewife's  tow. 

Rykkjarto — ib. 

Rytningr — Rytning. 

Rgena — Plunder. 

RceSi — Oar;  Ships  4. 

Rond — Shield;  Weapons  1. 

Rost— Mile. 

Salerni — Privy;  House  1. 

Salr — Hall;  House  1. 

Salub6t — Soulbooting  gift. 

Salugjof — ib. 

Saluhus — Hostel;  House  1. 

Sambur5ar-61 — Gild  drinking; 

Gilds. 
Sandr — Sand. 
Sat — Waylaying. 
Saumr — Nails,   Rivets;    Ships 

4- 
Saurr — Saur. 

Savali — Sable. 

Sax — Sword;  Weapons  2. 

Segl — Sail;  Ships  4. 

Sei^kona — Wizardry. 

SeiSmenn — Spell  workers. 

SerSr — Spell;  Wizardry. 

Selbelgir — Sealskin  bags. 

Selr — Seal. 

Selshefnir — Seals'  avenger. 

Selver — Haunt. 

Serkr — Smock,  Sark;  Dress  1,2. 

Sess — Bench;  Ships  4. 

Set — Settle;  House  2. 

Setgeiri — Seat-gore;  Dress  2. 

Setr — Mountain  bothy;  House 

1. 
Sett     (skip)  —  Waterlogged; 

Ships  1. 


Index  III 


5ii 


Sexceringr,  see  Batr;  Ships  3. 

SibyrSa — (Lay  aboard)  Ships; 
Ships  4. 

SfSr — Side. 

Sigla — Mast;  Ships  4. 

Sigrblot — Blood-offerings  1. 

Silfr — Silver. 

Silfr-bolli— Silver  bowl. 

Silfrdiskr — Silver  dish. 

Silfrkalkr — Silver  bowl. 

Silkiraemur — Fillets. 

Sin — Sinew;  Ships  4. 

Sitja  uti — Sitting  out;  Wiz- 
ardry. 

Sjo^r — Purse. 

Sj6nhverfing — Wizardry. 

Skaktafi — Chess. 

Skal — Scales. 

Skald — Poets. 

Skalhattr — Hat;  Dress  2. 

Skali — Hall;  House  1. 

Skalir — Scales. 

Skalm  —  Short  sword;  Wea- 
pons 2. 

Skapker — Large  bowl;  House 
2. 

Skapt  —  Shaft,  Arrow;  Wea- 
pons 2. 

Skarlats  kla^Si  —  Raiment; 
Dress  2. 

Skattgjafir — Scatgifts. 

Skattland — Scatland. 

Skattpenningr — Scatpenny. 

Skattr — Scat. 

Skaut — Skirt. 

Skegg — Beard;  also  Beard. 
Ships  4. 

Skei^ — Bark,  etc.;  Ships  3. 

SkeiSarkylfur — Beak;  Ships  4. 

Skemma — Bower;  House  1. 


Skenkingar,  see  Skinkers. 

Skeptifletta  —  Stones  ;  Wea- 
pons 2. 

Skera  har — Shearing  hair. 

Skit) — -Billets,  Snowshoes. 

Ski^bla'Snir — Ships  2. 

Ski,:8f?err — Snowshoes. 

Ski^gar^r — Faggot  fence. 

Ski'SsleSi — Sledge. 

Skikkja  —  Sleeveless  cape: 
Dress  2. 

Skillingr — Shilling. 

Skinn — Furs. 

Skinn-hjupr — Doublet;  Dress 
2. 

Skinnavara — Peltries. 

Skip — Ships. 

SkiprerSa — Shiprath. 

Skipta  homum — Wizardry. 

Skipta  likjum — Wizardry. 

Skirsla — Ordeal. 

Skjaldborg — Shieldburgh. 

Skj6mi — Sword;  Weapons  2. 

Skjoldr — Shield;  Weapons  1. 

Skjoldungasaga— Story  of  the 
Skioldungs. 

Sk6r — Shoes;  Dress  2. 

Sk6sveinn  —  Footpage,  Foot- 
swain,  Shoe-swain. 

Skoteldr — Shooting  fire. 

Skotsilfr — Pocket  money. 

Skrifta — Scree. 

Skri^ljds — Lantern. 

Skn'n — Shrine. 

Skripta — Shrive. 

Skrii^ — Shrouds. 

Skiiar — Shoes;  Dress  2. 

Skuta — Cutter,  scow;  Ships  3. 


Skutfestar- 
Ships  4. 


-Stern     moorings 


512 


Index  III 


Skutilsveinn,  see  Table  swain, 
Trencher  swain. 

Skutstafn — Stern;  Ships  4. 

Skyldir — Dues. 

Skyrta — Shirt;  Dress  2. 

Skytningr — Scothouse. 

Skaskja — (to)  check. 

Slagalar — Crupper. 

Slagbrandr — Bolt;  House  2. 

Slagsau^r — Slaughter  wether. 

Slar — Bars. 

Sla  saum — Rivets,  Shipbuild- 
ing; Ships  4. 

SleSi— Sleigh. 

SlarSur — Robe;  Dress  2. 

Slongvir — Slinger. 

Smabatr — Batr;  Ships  3. 

Smelt — Smalts. 

SmfS — Smith's  work. 

Smjorhlaupr — Butterkeg. 

Snekkja — Cutter,   etc. ;   Ships 

3- 

Snceridorr  —  Twirlspears; 

Spear,  Weapons  2. 

Sncerispj6t — ib. 

SoS— Broth. 

Sollin  (skip)— Soaked ;  Ships 
1. 

Sonarbl6t— Blood  offerings,  1. 

Sonargoltr — Blood  offerings, 
1. 

Spa — Spaedom. 

SpamaSr— Soothsayer. 

Spanga-brynja — Byrny ;  Wea- 
pons 1. 

Spann — Lot. 

SparSa — Stake,  Sparth;  Wea- 
pons 2. 

Spennitong — Gripping  tongs. 

Spj6t — Spear;  Weapons  2. 


Spjorr,  see  Spear;  Weapons  2. 
Sporhundr — Sleuth-hound. 
Spori — Spur;  Dress  2. 
Spaenir — Chips. 
Spong — Beak;  Ships  4. 
Sporr — Sparrow. 
Sta^r — Privy  place. 
Stafkarl — Camp  follower,  Staff- 
carle. 
Stafn — Prow,  Stem;  Ships  4. 
Stafna-smi^r  —  Shipbuilding; 

Ships  4. 
Stambuar  —  Forecastle-men, 

Stem-men;  Ships  4. 
Stafnle — Grapnel,    Grappling 

hooks;  Ships  4. 
Stafnsveit  —   Forecastlemen; 

Ships  4. 
Stafr— Pale,  Staff. 
Stag — Halliard;  Ships  4. 
Stallara-st611 — Marshal's  stool; 

House  2. 
Stallari— Marshal. 
Staurr — Beam;  Weapons  2. 
Steikari — Cook. 
Steinar — Stones;    cf.    Stones, 

Weapons  2. 
Steind(skip) — Stained;  Ships 

1. 
Steinketill — Stone  kettle. 
Stigama^r — Waylayer. 
Stik — Stake. 

Stj6rn — Rudder;  Ships  4. 
a  stj6rn — Starboard;  Ships  4. 
Stj6rnborSi — ib. 
Stofa — Hall;  House  1. 
St611— Chair,  Stool. 
Stra — Straw. 
Strandarhogg  —  Strand-hew, 

-slaughtering. 


Index  III 


5i3 


Strandhogg,  see  ib. 

Straumr — Roost. 

Strengir — Tackle;  Ships  4. 

Strengja  heit — Oath,  Vow. 

Strengr — Cable;  Ships  4. 

Stufa  =  stofa,  q.v. 

Styri — Rudder;  Ships  4. 

Styrishamla — Tiller;  Ships  4. 

Styrishnakki    —    Tillerhead; 

Ships  4. 
StoSull — Milkingstead. 
Sii'S — Hull;  Ships  4. 
Sund — Swimming;  Sports. 
Sunnudagr — Sunday. 
Svalir — Gallery,  Porch. 
Svardagi — Oath. 
SvarSsvipa — Walrushide  whip. 
Svefnbiir  —  Sleeping   bower ; 

House  1. 
Sveinn — Swain. 
Sveitardrykkja — Drinking. 
SverS — Sword;  Weapons  2. 
Svin — Swine. 
Svinabceli — Swinesty. 
Sviri  —  Beak,     Bows,     Prow ; 

Ships  4. 
Syn — Vision. 
Sysla  —  Bailiffry,     Bailiwick, 

Stewardship. 
Sysluma^r — Bailiff. 
Ssekonungr — Seaking. 
Saeng — Bed;  House  2. 
Sceri — Oath. 
Sseti — Seat. 

Saett  eiftum  bundin — Oath. 
Sogukvae^i — Story  Lays. 
Songhus — Songhouse. 
Songr — Song. 

Sox — Scissors;  Prow,  Ships  4. 
TaflborS — Chessboard. 

VI.  ] 


Taka  hiis  i. ...  see  Arson. 
Taka  laugar — Manners. 
Targa — Targe;  Weapons  1. 
Tefla — Tables  (playing  at). 
Tekjur — Dues. 
Telgja — Chip  ;    Shipbuilding, 

Ships  4. 
Tengja — Grapple,  Lash;  Ships 

4- 
Tengsl  —  Cable,     Lashings; 

Ships  4. 
Teningr — Dice. 
Ti^ir — Hours. 
Tilgjof — Jointure. 
Tingl — Prow  plates;  Ships  4. 
Tiund — Tithe. 
Tjald — Tent,  Tilt;  Ships  4. 
Tjaldstong — Tent  pole. 
Tjasna — Holmgang. 
Tjold — Hangings;  House  2. 
Tjosnublot — Holmgang. 
Tolf — Twelve. 
Topt— Toft. 
Torf — Turf. 
Torg — Market  place. 
Trani — Crane;  Ships  2. 
Trapiza — Trapesa;  House  2. 
Troll— Trolls. 

Trollkona — Troll-quean,  -wife. 
Tni— Belief. 
Tnina^Sarei'Sr — Oath. 
TrygS— Oath. 
Tuglambttull — Mantle ;  Dress 

2. 
Tundr— Tinder. 
Tunna — Tun. 
Tvimenningr — Drinking. 
Tyna — Tyne. 
Tyrviftr — Tarwood. 
Tokur — Incomings. 

L 


5H 


Index  III 


Tong,  see  Tongs. 
Tonn — Tooth. 
'Ugildr — Ungildsome. 
'UlfheSnar — Bareserk. 
Umbo^ — Stewardship. 
UmbiinaSr — Lykehelp. 
Undr — Wonders. 
Uppganga — Board;  Ships  4. 
Upphlutr — Jerkin;  Dress  2. 
Urtir— Worts. 
'UtilegumaSr — Waylayer. 
'Utlausn — Ransom. 
UxahiiS — Oxhide. 
Vagafloti — Vagar-fleet. 
Vagn — Wain. 
Vagnkarl — Waincarle. 
Vaka — Wake. 
Valhnot — Walnut. 
Valholl— Valhall. 
Valkyrja — Valkyr. 
Valslongva  —  Slaughter  sling; 

Weapons  2. 
Vapn — Weapons. 
Vapnsteinar — Weapon  stones; 

Weapons  2. 
Vararfeldr — Cloak;  Dress  2. 
VarSma^r — Warder. 
Vargr— Wolf. 
Vatn— Water. 
Vax — Wax. 
Ve'S,  "VeSja — Wager. 
VeSrviti — Vane;  Ships  4. 
Vegandi — Manslayer. 
VeiSimaSr — Hunter. 
VerSr — Hunting. 
Veizla — Banquets,  Bridal  feast, 

Feast,  Grants. 
Ver — Haunt,  Lair. 
VerSr — Meal. 
Verk-J?rsell— Thrall. 


Vesl,  see  Sleeveless  over-rai- 
ment; Dress. 

Vetr — Winter,  Year. 

Vetrnsetr — Winternights. 

Vettr— Wight. 

ViSa — Mast;  Ships  4. 

ViSir — Rafts;  Ships  4. 

ViSjar — Chains. 

ViSsmjor — Woodbutter. 

VigSr  eldr — Hallowed  Fire. 

ViggyrSlar  —  War  hurdles; 
Ships  4. 

Vigja — Consecrate. 

Vigr — Spear;  Weapon  2. 

Vigt  vatn — Holy  Water. 

Vigor — War  arrow;  Weapons 
2. 

Vika  sjavar — Sea  mile. 

Viking,  vikingr — Viking. 

VilhjalmsgjorS   —   Williams- 
girth. 

Vindass — Windlass. 

VindborSi — Windboard. 

Vinjartoddi — Pasture  tod. 

Vistagjald — Victual  fine. 

Visundr — Bison;  Ships  2. 

Vita— Wyte. 

Viti — Beacon. 

Vitra — Wizardry. 

Vitran — Vision. 

Vseringjar — Vserings. 

Volva — Wizardry. 

VorSr — Ward,  Watch. 

Vottr — Mitten. 

Yfirhofn — Overcloak;  Dress  2. 

'Yr — Bow;  Weapons  2. 

Jjegn — Thane. 

jjegngildi — Thanegild. 

Jpekja — Thatch;  House  2. 

Jjiljur — Deck;  Ships  4. 


Index  III 


515 


j?ing,  see  Thing. 

JpingamannaltfS — Thingmen. 

Jpingamenn — ib. 

JringbxrS — Thing  bidding. 

jpingha — Thingland. 

J?inghus — Council  Chamber, 
Thinghouse. 

)3ingm6t — Thingmote. 

)3j6nustuma3r — Servant,  Ser- 
ving man. 

)?orp — Thorp. 

Jjorparalegr — Clownish;  Man- 
ners. 

Jjorparar — Villeins. 

)3orpari — Thorpdweller. 

)}raelborinn — Thrallborn. 

J?rsell — Thrall. 

frvattdagr — Washday. 

)?vertre — Crossbeams;  House 
2. 

01— Ale. 


Old,  see  Age. 

OlmusumaSr — Bedesman. 

Oln— Ell. 

Ondugi — High  seat;  House  2. 

Ondurr — Snowshoes. 

Or — Arrow,  Shaft ;  Weapons  2. 

OrboS — Arrow  bidding. 

Om — Erne. 

Orvaroddr — Arrow;  Weapons 

2. 
OrvarskurSr — Arrow  shearing. 
Orvarping  —  Arrow  -  Thing; 

Thing. 
Ox — Axe;  Weapons  2. 
Oxarhamarr — Axe;    Weapons 

2. 
Oxarhyrna — Axe;  Weapons  2. 


CHISWICK    PRESS:    PRINTED    BV   CHARLES   WH1TTINGHAM    AND   CO. 
TOOKS   COURT,    CHANCERY   LANE,    LONDON. 


CORRECTIONS,  ETC. 

Vol.  I,   7o2S  after  Alfarin  add  King 

—  73snfor  Wide  through  Westmere  read  In  by-gone  ages 

While  agone  Olaf  governed 

King  Olaf  ruled  Wide-spread  Ofsi's 

The  land  right  proudly;  Land  and  Westmere; 

Ofsi,  in  '  fattr  Olafs  Geirstafta-alfs',  Flatt.  b.  ii.  6 :  Upsi,  must 

be  a  local  name,  cf  Finnur  Jonsson,  Heimskringla,  i.  84,  iv. 

26,  not,  as  formerly  supposed,  the  noun  (ofsi)  pride,  insolence. 

—  I04i4,  15  for  Sogn  read  Sogn-folk 

—  \oi,.nfor  Atlis-isles  read  Atli's-isle 

—  io422  for  Skald-spoiler  read  Skald-spiller 

—  uols  for  Venner  read  Vener 

—  iiijj  dele  and 

—  ii9257&rskin  read  flesh 

—  i2i14  after  up  add  and  down 

—  l2>l\<s\for  nad  been  read  were 

—  1512s  after  host  add  in  Thrandheim 

—  i652(./<?r  over  read  round 

—  \-]on  for  in  read  up  at 

—  1 7*12  after  time  add  into  Thrandheim 

—  ijSufor  Harald  read  Hakon 

—  1  S^.2for  glaive  read  spear 

—  1853  (igo7)  for  sword-points  read  arrows 

—  207 30  for  sea-steads  read  sea-steeds 

—  2i512  dele  fire 

—  219- for  of  the  weight  of  read  which  was  worth. 

—  247lo/0r  Ragnfrid  read  Ragnhild 

—  2"]2,6for  eleven  ships  from  Jomsburg  read  forty  ships  from 

Wendland 

—  3°3io  after  was  add  King 


Corrections,  etc. 

Vol.  II,  2814  after  great  add  in  England 

—  So-iif0r  King  r^^  Earl 

—  62^  (6512)  /^  brother-in-law  read  father,  etc.,  for  Snorri 
makes  Holmfrid,  Svein's  wife,  a  daughter  of  K.  Olaf;  in 
reality  she  must  however,  have  been  his  sister  (Index  and 
Geneal.,  III). 

—  jos/or  dales  read  dale 

—  12>i  for  Thrandheim  read  Nidoyce 

—  2406/or  though  he  read  to 

—  29 1  u  after  main  add  and  turned  up  in  England 

—  34216  fee-lustful  =  avaricious. 

—  34829  after  Thing  add  in  Thrandheim 

—  363.35  after  Brusi  add  at  the  place  called  Mere 

—  3^>72sfor  Nesiar  read  Lesiar 

Vol.  Ill,  ioO0  after  the  verse  add  That  winter  King  Magnus 
was  ruler  over  Norway,  but  Horda-Knut  over  Denmark 

—  3722  after  Thorkel  add  of  Lings 

—  S6.2Sfor  bowl  read  handle 

—  I93is/or  across  read  round 

—  2  782(5  after  Halogaland  add  into  Birchisle 

—  Z1S-2ifor  very  mother's  brother  read  brother  by  the  same 
mother 

—  Z2Shfor  Christ's  read  Cross 


GENEALOGIES 


iddil 
ohn 


Sigui 


•D.==l 


1  Alii   E    I. 

■ 


1 


■ 


I 


1 1     ■■    I,  I 
I  Hakon.l 

H 
H 


■ 


Bar!  i  liorii 

i       i 


III   I 

I    rii      Bl (■  I 

'  iwmhild,  d 
Cuth 

.  .i,  i„i, 


■ 


I 

II.!...-. 

■ 


■ 


l*  by  I. 


: 


I    ■ 


■  ■■■LI,  in 
1 


■ 

II. H.I,     ,IL      '     ■ 

i -H 


■ 


. 


I 

Haisld  ■ 

Olafthe  Holy,  K 

■    Alfhild 


■ 


■ 


■  ■ 


■ 


1 


■ 


1 
i 


i     -v  N 


N.N 

1 

I 


■ 


■-.!  Mouth 


K   N 

■ 

a,  rn. 


1 


■ 
I 


— 1 


2.  by  concubines. 


3- 
4- 


N.N. 


Brigida,  m. 
Ingi  Hallsteinson, 
Earl  Karl  Sonison, 
Magnus,  K.S., 
Earl  Birgir  Brosa. 


N.N. 


Maria,  m. 
Simon  Sheath,  s. 
Hallkel  Hunch. 

I 
Nicolas. 


of 


N.N. 


.Margaret,  m. 

John,  s.  of  Hallkel 

Hunch. 


Earl  Knut.      Folki.       Magnus,  Tab.  IV. 
certainly,  and  2.  probably,  unhistorical. 


TABLE  II. 
The   Race  of  Harald  Gilli,  cf.   Table   I. 


i.  in  wedlock  by  Ingirid, 
d.  of  Rognvald,  s.  of  Ingi 
Steinkelson,  K.S. 

I 
Ingi,  K.N. 


Thora,  d.  of 
Guthorm  Greybeard. 

i 

Sigurd  Mouth,  K.N. 

i 

Illegitimate  issue  by: 


Thora,  Kristin,  d.  of  N.N.  Gunnhild. 

workwoman.       Sigurd  Jerusalem- 
farer. 
Hakon  Shoulder-  Sigurd,         Sverrir,  K.N. 

broad,  K.N.  fostered  by 

Harald.  Marcus  O'Shaw. 


N.N. 


Harald  Gilli,  reputed 
son  of  Magnus  Barefoot. 

Issue. 


.  by  concubines. 


Biadak 
{Scotch  Beathach). 

I 

Eystein,  K.N.,  m. 

Ragna,  d.  of  Nicolas  Mew, 

no  issue. 

By  cone.  N.N. 


N.N. 


N.N. 


Magnus,  K.N. 


Cecilia,  m.  Bard, 

s.  of  Guthorm 
Asolfson  of  Rein. 

I 
Ingi,  K.N. 

Tab.  XI. 


Brigida,  m. 

Ingi  Hallsteinson, 
Earl  Karl  Sonison, 
Magnus,  K.S., 
Earl  Birgir  Brosa. 


Eystein  Maiden. 


Maria,  m. 
Simon  Sheath,  s. 
Hallkcl  Hunch. 

I 
Nicolas. 

Earl  Philip.     Earl  Knut.       Eolki.       Magnus,  Tab.  IV. 
marriage  i.  certainly,  and  2.  probably,  unhistorical. 


Margaret,  m. 

John.s.ofHallkel 

Hunch. 


C 


1 

aid  (Bluetooth),  m. 

d.  of  Olaf  Biornson,  K.S 
I 


1_ 

Thyri,  m. 
i.  Styrbiorn  of  Sweden. 

2.  Burislaf  of  Wendland 

3.  Olaf  Tryggvison. 


— I 
Astrid,  m. 

1  Wolf,  s.  of  ETarald 

orakalegg. 

I 
vein,  K.D. 

1 


1 

K.I).    Nicolas,  K.D.,m.  Svein,  K.D. 

Olaj  Margaret  Frithpoll.  | 

Henry  the  Halt,  m. 
--,  Ingirid,  d.  f)f  Rognvald. 

ild  Kesia,  m.  | ' 1 

d,  d.  of  Magnus       Magnus,  K.S.     Rognvald.     Buriz. 
iarefoot. 

I 
Olaf. 


TABLE  III. 
Kings  of  Denmark. 

Radbard,  K.  in  Russia. 

I 
Randver. 

Sigurd  Ring. 

I 

Ragnar  Lodbrok. 

i 

Sigurd  Worm- in  eye. 

i 

Horda-Knut. 


Knut  '  Danaast.' 
Gold- Harold. 


Gorm  the  Old, 
m.  Thyri,  d.  of  Klack-Harald. 


Harald  (Bluetooth),  m. 
Gyrid,  d.  of  Olaf  Biornson,  K.S. 


Svein  Twibeardj  K.I >.,  m. 
i .  ( lunnhild,  d,  of  Burislaf. 
2,  Sigrid  the  Haughty. 


1 1  irda  Knut, 
K.D,  and  E. 


Harald.         i.  Knut  the  Mighty,  K.D.  and  E. 
m.  Emma.         By  cone.  Alfiva. 

— r—        -J  r "L^n 

Harold     Svein,  K  N. 
Harefoot,  K.E. 


i.  Gyda. 
m.  Earl  Eric. 


Gunnhild,  m. 
Henry  III.,  Emp.  Germ 


2.  Astrid,  m. 

Earl  Wolf,  s.  of 

Sprakalegg. 

I 
Svein.  K.D. 


Thyri,  m. 
i.  Styrbiorn  of  Sweden. 

2.  Burislaf  of  Wendland 

3.  Olaf  Tryggvison. 

Harald. 


m.        Harald  Hone,  K.D.    Knut  the  Holy,  K.D.    Olaf  Hunger,  K.D.,  m.    Eric  the  Good,  K.D.    Nicolas,  K.D.,  m. 
1,  K.N.  Ingigerd,  d.  of  Harald  Margaret  Frithpoll. 

Hardredy. 


Knut  Lord,  m. 

Ingibiorg,  d.  of  Harald 

(Mstislav),  K.  in  Novgorod. 

Valdimar  I.,  K.D. 


1 

K.D. 

I 
Henry  the  Halt,  m. 
Ingirid,  d.  of  Ri 


q 


i 


Eric  Everminded,  K.I>.,  Harald  Kesia,  m. 

m.  Malmfrid,  widow  of      Ragnhild,  d.  of  Magnus       Magnus,  K.S.     Rognvald,     Buriz. 
Sigurd  Jerusalem-farer.  Barefoot. 

— 1  1 

Kristin,  m.  Margret,  m.  <  )laf. 

Magnus  the  Blind,        Stig  Whiteleather. 


repudiated. 


Valdimar  II.,  K.l>.     Knut,  K.D.         Rikisa,  m. 

Eric  Knutson.  K.S. 


Kristin,  m. 
Karl  Sorkvirson,  K.S. 


le  Swede, 


AsJUler. 
Olaf! 


btta. 


m. 


n.  Kristin 


i. 


atrin.       ]\ 
Sti 


:.d 

i  daughter 


Blot-Svein,  brother  to  Ingi  Steinkelson's  queen. 


Kol,  al.  Eric  Yearlucky,  K.S. 

Sorkvir  Kolson,  K.S. 
m.  Ulfhild,  K.  Ingi's 
widow. 

I 
Karl,  K.S.,  m. 

Kristin  d.  of  Stig  Whiteleather. 

.1 

Sorkvir,  K.S. 

I 

John,  K.S. 


""l 


Daughter,  m. 
Jatvard. 

I 
Eric  the  Holy,  K.S. 

Knut,  K.S. 


Eric,  K.S. 


wibeard,  999,  is  young  enough  to  have  a  child  (Astrid), 
Tryggvisjlaf  the  Swede  and  daughter  of  K.  Eric. 


TABLE  IV. 
Kings  of  Sweden. 

Emund. 

I 
Eric. 

I 
Biorn. 


Skogul-Tosti. 


Olaf,  K.S. 


Styrbiorn,  m. 

Thyri,   d.  of 

Harald  Gormson. 


Eric  the  Victorious,  K.S.,  m.  Sigrid  the  Haughty. 


Holmfrid,'  m.  Karl 
Svein  Hakonson. 

I 


Olaf  the  Swede,  K.S. 


Gunnhild,  m.  i.  James  Onund,  K.S.     Ingigerd,  m.  Jarisleif,      By  cone.  Edla:  Emund. 

Prince  of  Holmgarth. 


Holti  Nimble.     Vissivald.       Ellisif,  m. 

Harald  Hardredy. 


Ingigerd,  m.  Maria. 

OlafSveinson.  K.D. 


Valdimar,  Prince  of 
Kiev,  m.  Gyda,  d.  of 
Harald  Godwinson, 
K.E. 


Astrid,  m.  Holmfrid? 

Olaf  the  Holy. 

I 

Ulfhild. 


Earl  Wolf  of  Gautland. 


Earl  Rognvald,  m. 
Ingibiorg,  d.  of  Tryggvi. 

Earl  Wolf.        Earl  Eilif. 


Daughter,  m. 


Ingi  I.  K.S. 


Harald  (Mstislav),  Prince  of  Holmgarth,  m.  Kristin. 


Margaret  Frithpoll,  m. 
I,  Magnus  Barefoot,  K.N. 
2.  Nicolas,  K.D. 


Rognvald. 


Malmfrid,  m.  Sigurd  Ingibiorg,  m. 

Jerusalem-farer,  K.N.  KnutLord. 

|  r L_ 

Kristin,  m.  Valdimar  I,  K.D.      Kristin,  m 


Ingirid,  m. 
t.  Henry  Halt. 


Erling  Askew. 

I 
Magnus  Erlingson,  K.N. 


Katrin.       Margret,  m.  Earl  Rognvald.    Magnus,  K.S.    Buris. 

Magnus  Stig  Whiteleather. 

the  Blind.  | 

Kristin,  m.  Karl 
Sverkirson,  K.S. 


Knut,  K.D. 


Valdimar  II,  K.D. 


Rikisi 


Harald  Hairfair. 


Eyvind  Lambi,  m. 
Sigrid  of  Sandnes, 

i 


Ingibiorg,  m. 

Earl  Halfdan. 

I 
Finn  'skjalgi,'  m.  Gunnhild. 

i 


Niall. 


Astrid,  m. 
Rognvald  the  Old. 

I 
Steinkel,  K.S. 


Hallstein,  K.S. 


Eyvind  Skaldspiller. 
Harek  of  Thiotta. 


Finn. 

I 
Hakon. 

I 


vein,  brother  to  Ingi  Steinkelson's  queen. 


Philip,  K.S.,  m.  Ingi  II,  K.S.,  m.  Ulfhild. 

Ingigerd,  d.  of  Har- 
ald Hardredy. 

2.  Harald  Gilli. 

I 
Ingi,  K.N. 


Kol,  al.  Eric  Vearlucky,  K.S. 

Sorkvir  Kolson,  K.S- 
m.  Ulfhild,  K.  Ingi's 
widow. 

i 

Karl,  K.S  ,  m 
Kristin  d.  of  Stig  Whitcleather. 

i 

Surkvir,  K.S. 
John,  K.S. 


I  daughter,  rn. 
Jatvard. 

I 
Eric  the  Holy,  K.S. 


Knut,  K.S. 


Eric,  K.S. 


Holmfrid,  of  marriageable  age,  looo,  Snorri  makes  daughter  of  Olaf  the  Swede  (who  probably  had  a  daughter  of  that  name),  and  makes,  consequently,  Sigrid  the  Haughty  her  grandmother.    Yet  Sigrid  marrying  K.  Svein  Twibean  i  have  a  child  (Astrid), 

which  is  inconceivable  if  she  was  Holmfrid's  grandmother.    Besides  the  Sagas  of  the  Olafs,  Tryggvison  and  Haraldson  (the  Holy),  in  Fornmannasogur,  iii.  i.jrs,  iv.  le.1SJ  distin 


tinctly  say  that  Holmfrid  was  sister  of  Olaf  the  Swede  .md  daughtei  ol  K.  Eric. 


c 


Yaldimar,  f  1052 


IA. 


Wolfnoth. 

I 
?).    Earl  Godwine,  m.  Gyda. 

I 
Harald. 

I 
....  Gyda. 


Thorgils  Spraka 


1 

I  Wolf,  111. 

Astrid,  half-si-t 

K.  Knut  the  Mighty, 

Svein,  K.  1 ). 

Tab.  111. 


1,  K.S. 

.. 

em-fa  re  r. 

:i. 
Iskew. 


TABLE  V. 
Russian  Alliances  with  England  and  Scandinavia. 


Valdimar  (Vladimir)  the  Great, 
great-grandson  of  Ruric, 
Grand-Prince  of  Kiev,  t  1015. 


JaroslaVj  m.  Vissavald  (Vsevolod),  t  995 

Ingigerd,  d.  6f  K.  Olaf  the  Swede.     (Sigrid  the  Haughty's  '" 


Valdimar,  t  1052  (Holii  the  Nimble?). 


Ellisif,  m. 
K.  Harald  Han 


1 — 
Mana. 


Ingigerd,  m. 
Olaf  Hunger,  K  D. 
in,  K.I.i 


Vissivald  (Vsevolod),  t  1093. 

1 

Valdimar  (Vladimir),  m.   .   . 
(Monomachus). 


Wolfnoth. 

I 
fated  wooer?).    Earl  Godwine,  111.  Gyda. 

1 

Harald. 
.  Gyda, 


Thorgils  Spi  ikalegg, 


Earl  Wolf,  m. 
Astrid,  half-si  I 
K.  Knut  thi    >■■ 

I 

Svein,  K.D. 

rab.  III. 


Harald  (Mstislav),  m. 

Kristin,  d.  of  Ingi  Steinkclson,  K.S. 


Ingibiorg,  ni. 
Knut  Lord. 


Malmfrid,  m 
K.  Sigurd  Jerusajem-farer. 


c 


Kristin.     Valdimar  I.,  K.D.    _      Kristin,  m. 

Tab.  III.  karl  Erling  Askew. 

Tab.  I. 


Kathli 
K.  Biolan  in 

I 
Nidbic 

Helgi  O 


r~ 


Usvif  the  Wiso. 
Thordis,  d.  of  T. 


— I 


Geirlaug,  m. 

William,  count  of  1'oiticrs. 


.E. 


I 

Gudrun,  m. 

liolli  Thorleikson. 


)r,  K.E. 


Asdis 

W 

oft 


2.  Knut  the  Mighty,  K.E.  and  I). 

I 
Horda-Knut,  K.E.  and  D. 


Kathlin,  m. 
R.  Biolan  in  Scotland. 

i 

Nidhtorg,  m. 
Helgi  Ottarson. 


TABLE  VI. 
Earls  of  Mere  and  Dukes  of  Normandy. 

Ivar,  Earl  of  the  Uplands. 

I 
Eystcin  Glumra. 

i 

Rognvald  Mere-Earl. 

Rolf  Wend-a-foot. 

i 

William  Lon 


■  the  Wise,  m.         Einar  Jliil;Ii_-^  air. 
Thordis,  d.  of  Thiodolf. 


Richard  I. 


Gudrun,  m. 
Uolli  Thorleikson. 


Asdis,  d.  of  Thorgrim. 

i 

Wolf  the  Marshal 

of  Harald  Hardredy. 

Tab.  XI. 


Richard  II. 

I 

Richard  III.     Robert  Devil. 


William  Bastard,  K  I. 


( ;  ill. in-,  in. 
Willi. mi.  count  ol  I 


1 

Emma,  m, 
i.  Ethelred,  K.E.         ;.  Knut  the  .Mighty.  K.E.  and  1 
I  I 

Edward  Confessor.  K.E.       Horda-Knut,  K..E.  and  D. 


d,  E.O. 


:er 


nn  II.,  E.O.,  m.  Ingibiorg 
mother,'  d.  of  Finn  Arnison. 


Hall  o'  Side. 

Thordis. 

I 
Ospak. 

I 
Summerlid. 


akon  Ivarson 
Good. 

iorg. 

d. 

,  m. 
Hruga.' 

Biarni. 


Erlend,  E.O.,  m.  Thora. 


St.  Magnus,  E.O.     Gunnhild,  m. 
Kol  Kalison  of 

Agdir  in  Norway. 
I 


Erling,  E.O. 


i — 


Rognvald  Kali,  E.O. 

I 

Ingigerd,  m. 

Erie  Slagbrellir. 


Ingirid. 


Table  VII. 
Earls  of  Orkney,  cf.  Orkneyingasaga. 
Ivar,  Earl  of  the  Uplands  in  Norway, 

Eystein  Glumra. 


Rognvald  Mere  Earl,  m.  Hild, 
or  Ragnhild,  d.  of  Rolf  Nefia. 


Sigurd,  E.O. 


Ivar.     Thorir  the  Silent,  Earl  of    Rolf  Wend-a-foot.     By  cone.  Hrollaug.     Hallad,  E.O.     Turf-Einar,  E.O. 

Merc,  m.  OlofVear's-heal,     See  Tab.  VI.  , , 


d.  of  Harald  Hairfair. 

i 

Bergliot,  m.  Earl  Sigurd 
of  Ladir.    See  Tab.  IX. 


Thorfinn  I.,  Skullcleaver,  E.O., 
Settler  in  Iceland,  m.  Grelad,  d. 
of  Dungad,  Earl  of  Caithness. 


Amkel,  E.O.     Erlend,  E.O. 


Arnfinn,  E.O.,  m.    Howard  *  Year-      Ljot.     Skuli,  E.O.  Lodver,  E.O.,  m. 

Ragnhild,  d  of       blessed,' E.O.  Edna,  d.  of  an  Irish  king. 

Eric  Bloodaxe. 

Sigurd  the  Thick,  E.O.,  m.  a  daughter 
of  Malcolm  II.,  K.  Scotland. 


Whelp  or  Hound.     Summerlid,  E.O.     Bruce,  E.O.     Einar  Wrongmouth,  E.O.     Thorfinn  II.,  E.O.,  m.  Ingibiorg 

'  Earls'  mother,'  d.  of  Finn  Arnison. 
Rognvald,  E.O. 


Paul  I.,  E.O.,  m.  a  daughter  of  Hakon  Ivarson 
and  Ragnhild,  d.  of  Magnus  the  Good. 


Hall  0 

rhordis, 

i 

i 

Summerlid. 

i 


Erlend,  E.O.,  ra.  Thora. 


Hakon,  E.O.  three  daughters,        4  Herbiorg. 

r ^ -t 

Paul  II.,  the  'Dumb,'  E.O.     Ingibiorg,  m.     Margret,  m.     By  cone.  Harald,  E.O.       Sigrid. 
Olaf  Billing,       Earl  Maddad. 
K.  of  Sodor.  Herborg,  m. 

Harald,  E.O.  Kolbein  '  Hniga.' 


St.  Magnus,  E.O.     Gunnhild,  m.  Erling, 

Kol  1 
Agdit  in  Norway. 


David,  E.O. 

I 
Harald,  E.O. 


— I 
John. 


Bishop  Biarni. 


Rognvald  Kali,  E.0 

I 
Ingigerd,  m. 

igbrellir. 


Ingirid. 


'RI 


n. 

tim. 


— 1 

La 


rid.. 
rgeh 


~l 


i  Hardredy. 
'ab.  I. 


rid,  d.  of     m.  3.  Sigrid  d.  of 
utter-bear.  Thorkel. 


ngi,  K.N.       Duke  Skuli.      Sigrid,  m.  John  of  Eastort. 
Tab.  XI. 


Gudrun. 


Bard. 


Saxi  of  Wick. 

.1 
Kari  Kingsbrother. 

Sigurd. 


-~i 


TABLE  VIII. 
Genealogies  oi  Asti  u>  and  Asta,  mothers  of  Olaf  Tryggvison  and  Olaf  the  Holy. 

Hunda-Steinar,  Earl  in  England,  m. 
Alof,  d.  of  Ragnar  Lodbrok. 


Sigurd. 

i 

Viking- Kari. 


m  Teit, 
tilbiorn. 


Eric  Biodaskalli. 


Sigurd.     Carlshead.     Jostein.     Thorkel  Dydril.      Astrid, 


Biorn. 

Audun  Skokul,  m. 
Thordis,  widow  of  Onund  1 1 

i 

1  hora  '  Moshals.' 


[vai   i 

Burlufdtr.' 


Gudbiorg. 


d  Trcefoot,  oi. 
d.  of  Thorgrim. 


t  fizui  w  hite,  hi. 
.■.   d.   oi 

Rich. 


Jorun. 


m.  i.  Tryggvi  Olafson. 


Gunnhild,  m.  Gudbrand  Ku!a. 


Asta. 

_i_ 


Isrid,  m. 
Thord  Bigbellyof  Steii;        \ 


in         Thorkatla,      [sleif,  first  Astrid,  m.         Ingibiorg,  m.      Olaf,  K.N. 

Hialti  Skeggison.  Bp.  of  I        Erlinj    ikialgson,     Earl  Rognvald.     Tab.  I. 

kind. 


Thorkel  Nefia.    Ingirid,  m.     Ingigerd,  m. 
Thorgeir.       Hyrning. 


m.  i.  Harald  Grenlander.  m.  2.  Sigurd  Sow. 

I  r L~ 

Olaf  the  Holy.  Guthorm.         Gunnhild, 

Tab.  I.  Ketil  Calf. 


Orm.     Hull  ward  the  Holy. 


Si  grid,  m. 
Hindrid,  s.  of 
Einar  Tham- 
barskeltJr. 


Ingirid, 
.  tein. 

— , 

Guthorm.     Gudrun,  ra. 

Skuli,  s.  of  TostL 

i  of  Rein,  m. 
Thora,  d.  ofSkopti 

Ogmundson. 


I  larald  i  I 

1 


i,  in. 
1  Hunch. 


ii,  in.  i.  Eldrid,  d.  of 

Jon  Bui 


John,  m. 
Margaret,  d.  of  Har.  Gilli. 

r -1- -i 

Hallkel.        Rognvald.        Gregory. 


Simon  Skalp,  m. 
Maria,  d.  of  Har.  Gilli. 

i 

Niolas. 


Ragnhild.     Ingirid. 


m.  3.  Sigrid  d.  of 
Thorkel. 

I 
Bard. 


Ihgi,  KN. 


1         XI. 


Saxi  of  U  ii  k, 

I 
Kari  Kin, 

I 

in.  John  0 


( 

c 

c 


of  Yriar. 
of  Ladir. 


Ladir,  m. 

rir  Silent  of  Mere. 

y,  Earl  of  Ladir. 


Griotgarth. 


Ranveig,  m. 
Thorgrim. 


Ragnhild,  m. 
Skopti  of  the  Tidings. 

I 

Eilif. 


Liot.       Asdis,  m.  Uspak. 


Earl  Worm,  m. 
Sigrid,  d.  of  Earl  Finn  Arnison. 


Wolf  the  Marshal. 
Tab.  XI,  XII. 


Ogmund. 


1 

Ragna,  m. 

Svein  Sveinson. 

.    I 
Kyrping-Worm. 

Tab.  X. 


TABLE   IX, 
Earls  of  Lauir. 


Earl  Eric,  m. 
Gyda,  d.  of  Svein  Twibeard. 

i 

Hakon. 


Earl  Svein,  m. 
Holmfrid  of  Sweden. 


GriotL:.' 

i 

1  [akon.  Earl  ol  Ladir. 


Asa,  m.  Sigurd,  Earl  of  Ladir,  m. 

Harald  Hairfair.         Bergliot,  d.  of  Earl  Thorir  Silent  of  Mere. 
Tab.  I.  | 

Hakon  the  Mighty,  Earl  of  Ladir. 
I 


(.'■riotgarth. 


Ranveig,  m. 

Thorgrim. 


Heming.      Erlend. 


Sigrid,  m. 
Aslak  Erlingson. 
Tab.  XII. 


Gunnhild,  m. 
Onund,  K.S. 
Svein  Wolfson,  K..D. 


Bergliot,  m. 
Einar  Thambarskelfir. 

Eindrid. 


Ragnhild,  m.  | ' 1 

Skopti  of  the  Tidings.  Liot.        Asdis,  m.  Uspak. 

i  i 

Eilif.  Wolf  the  Marshal. 


C 


Earl  Worm,  m. 

Sigrid,  d.  of  Earl  Finn  Arnison. 


Ogmund. 


Tab.  XL  XII. 


Ragna,  ni. 
Svein  Sveinson. 

i 

Kyrpin. 
I  ab.  X. 


EW. 


Valdimar  of  Holmgarth. 


Harald  (Mstislav). 


Sigurd  Jerusalem-farcr,  m.  Malmfrid. 

I 
v,  m.  Kristin,  Tab.  I. 

Ragnhild,  m. 

Jon  Thorbergson 

of  Randberg. 


d 


he  is  in  the  index  entered  as  the  son  of  Ragnhild, 


TARLE  X. 
Family  of  Erling  Askew. 

Arnmod  Arnvidson. 
Earl  Hakon. 
of  ladir.  Ami. 

i 

Ragnhild,  m.  Eilif.     Earl  Finn.       Erlend  of  Gerdi. 

i  i 

Earl  Worm,  m.  Sigrid.  Svein. 

I 


Ogmund. 
I 


in.  Svein. 

i 


Munan.         Astrid,  m.       Kyrping-Worm,  m. 
Soni  Ivarson.     i.  Ragnhild,  d.  of 
Skuli  Kingsfi 


Valdimar  of  Holi 
Harald 


Earl  Karl 


I — 


"I  Gautland.     Asa,  m.     Ogmund  Hammerer 
Nicola  •• 

i 

Biorn  Buck,  m. 
Margret,  d.  of  Arm. 


m.  z.  Ragnhild  d.  of 

Sveinki.  Sigurd  Jerusalem -farer,  m.  Malm'frid 

I  I 

Erling  Askew,  m.  Kristin,  Tab.  I. 


Magnus,  K.N  Ragnhild,  m. 

Jon  Thorbergson 
of  Randberg. 


1  Snorri  does  not  mention  Ogmund's  mother.    Hence,  by  inadvertence,  he  is  in  the  index  entered  as  the  son  ol  Ragnhild, 
-I   of  Si  einki. 


c 


LE  ^ 

Arnu 

l  '  Func 

n  '  bulli 

I 
rnvid 

I 
Ammo 


rm,  m. 
Thorste 


Geii 


1  1 1 

us  the  Red.     Abp.  Eystein.     Thorberg. 


)uke  Sk 


" I 

Jorun,  m. 

Marshal  Wolf  Uspakson. 
, I 


John  the  Strong. 

I 

Erlend  Sloven. 
J 


Arnfinn. 


Kalf. 


Olaf 


*C.N.     Brigida.     Maria. 


(Flat.  b.  II.  356). 


Brigida. 

Sheep-Woolf. 

I 
Peter  Burdenswain. 

r — J n  .A 

Erlend.         Wolf  Fly.       Signd. 

I 
Abp. 

Peter. 


ngirid. 


TABLE   XI. 
Family  of  the  Arnmodlings  ok  Arnungs,  cf.  Fagrskinna,  cm.  215. 

Finnvid  '  Fundinn.' 

Thorarin  'bullibak.' 

Arnvid. 

1 

Earl  Arnmod. 


Kalf  "f"  Eggja,  m.  Earl  Finn,  in. 

B      liot,  d.  ol  I  Ealfdan, 
Thorir  Hound.  s.  of  K.  Sigurd  Sow. 


Ami,  m. 
Thora,  d.  of  Thorstein  Gallows. 


Thorberg,  m.  Amundi.     Kolbiorn.     Arnbiorn.  Ami,  m.  Ragnhdd, 

Ragnhild,  d.  of  Erling  Geiithrud,  d.  of  Erling     m.  Harek  of  Thiotta. 

Skialgson.  Skialgson. 


Sigrid,  in. 
Earl  Orm  Eilifson. 

I 


[ngibiorg 

Earls'-mother,  m. 
Thorfin  II,  CO. 


Eystein  Heathcock.     Ogmund. 


Thora,  m. 
K.  Harald  Hardredy. 


Jorun,  m. 

■ 


1 rJ 

na,  m.                   Ogmund. 
veinson.  | ' 1 

1  nd,  m. 

Kyrping-Worm,  Som  I 

m.  1.  Ragnhild,  d.  of  | 

Skuh  King's  fosterer.  d.  ofSveinki.  Earl  Karl. 

1 

Ogmund  Hammerer.  Erling  Askew, 

m.  Kristin,  d.  of  Sigurd 
m-fari  r 

Magnus,  K.N.        Ragnhild,  in. 
Jon  Tl 


Ingibiorg,  m,  Skopti  of  Giski, 

Egil  Aslakson.     m.  Gudrun,  d.  of  Thord. 


Magnus,  K.N. 


Ogmund.     Thord.     Finn.     Paul.  Ragnhild,  m. 

1 1  1  Eilifson. 
Nicolas  Periwincle. 


Olaf  the  1  luiet,  K.N. 

I 

Magnus  Bar.  loot,  K.N. 


John  the  Strong, 
cloven. 


Arnfinn 

_ j ! 

Olaf 
,,  II.356). 


l'.rigida. 


Borghild,  m.  Gregory. 

Kari  King's-brother. 


Waterworm.       Gyrid,  m.        Baugeyd.  Sigrid,  m,  Guthorm  of  Rein, 

Gyrd  Amundison.  Haldor  Bryniolfson.         1 ' 1 

Bard,  ni.         Rangrid,  111 
Amundi.  i    I  &  ilia,  d.  of         Fnrek 

:_nrd  Mouth.  Cock-boat. 
2.  Ragnhild,  d.  of  Erling. 


— ,  Hakon 

Thora,  m.  Asolf     Thorir'sfosterson,  K.N. 

Skulison  of  Rein.  Eystein,  K.N.     Sigurd,  K.N.     Olaf,  K.N.     Harald  Gilli,  K.N.      Sigurd        Magnj  ein.     Thorberg.      Peter  Burdt 

i -~i  Slembi-Deacon. 

! 1 ,  Maria,  m.  n,  in.  | ' 1 

Sigrid,  m.      Gudbrand,  s.  of  Shavehew.      Erling  Askew.  Sigurd,  K.N.     Eystein,  K.N.     Magnus,  K.N.     Brigida 

Hallkel  Hunch.  |  , ' , 


John.    Simon  Sheath. 
I  Tab.  II. 

Gregory. 


Olaf  Unlucky.     Magnus,  K.N.       Ragnhild,  m. 


■ 
Pete] 


John  Tin  11 


1.  Ingi,  K.N.     a.  Duke  Skuli.     Guthorm.  Sigrid,  m. 

I ' 1  John  of  Eastort. 

Margaret.     Ingirid.     Rangrid. 


c 
c 


r.  Hairfair 

I 
Geirstead 

I 
Tryggvi. 

I 
Astrid. 


d,  m. 
irnison. 


Thora,  r 
Har.  Hard 
Tab.  I 


TABLE- XI  I. 
Family  of  Horda-Kari. 


Aslak  Bifra-Kari. 

I 
Horda-Kari. 


Vilgerd. 

i 

Floki  of  the  Ravens, 
one  of  tin;  early  ex- 
plorers to  Iceland. 


Thorleif  the 


Thora. 

I 

Ulfliot, 

author  of  the  earliest 

laws  of  Iceland. 


Olmod  the  Old. 

I 

Askel. 

i 

Aslak  Pate  o'Fitiar. 


Ogmund. 

I 
Thorolf  Skialg. 


Thorir. 


Thord. 

I 
Klypp       r- 
the  Hersir,  m.  Alof. 


Mar.  Hairfair. 


Sigrid  of  Eggja.        Thorir  Hound. 


Olaf  Geirsteadelf. 

i 

Tryggvi. 

1  I -H  I 

Sigurd  of  Thrandness,  m.  Sigrid.       Erling  of  Soli,  m.  Astrid. 

I 
Asbiorn  Sealsbane. 


Asbiom 
of  Yriar. 

_j_ — _, 

Jam 

u(  Yriar. 

I 
Gudrun,  m. 
Olaf  Tryggvison. 


Styrkar. 

Eindi  id. 


Skialg.     Sigurd.     Lodin.  Aslak,  m.  Thorir.  RagnhiUl,  m. 

Sigrid,  d,  of  Earl  Svein.  Thorberg  Arnison. 


Usvif  the  Wise. 

i 

Uspak. 


Einar  Thambarskelfir. 

i 

Eindrid,  m.  Sigrid,  d.  of 
Ketil  Calf  and  Gunnhild, 
sister  of  K  Har.  Hardredy. 


in,  m. 

Ragnhild,  d.  of  Svein 
Wolfson,  K.D. 

Knut  Ml  Soli,  m. 
Rimhild. 

I 

i    .nhildson. 


EysteinHeathcock.  Ogmund.     Thora,  m.  Jorun,  m.  Wolf  the  Marshal. 

' ,  Har.  Hardredy.  | ' 1 

Daughter,  m.       1  laughter.                               Tab.  I.  John  the  Strong.  Brigida. 
Laxe-Paul. 


Hakon  Pungelta.    Einar. 


Hakon  Maw. 
I 
Ivar. 


Erlend  Sloven. 


Sheep-Wolf. 


Abp,  Eystein.      Peter  Burdenswain.       Finn. 


c 


c 


c 


Svein.     Wolf  Fly.     Philip, 


XIII. 

Family. 

Thorir. 
I 


lorir  Hound. 

.    I 
Sigurd. 

I 
inveig,  m. 

n  Arnison. 
_J 


H 

Sigurd,  m. 

Sigrid,  d.  of  Thorolf  Skialg, 

sister  to  Erling  Skialgson. 

I 
Asbiorn  Sealsbane. 


jrd  Hound.     Jarthrud.     Erling. 


TABLE  XIII. 
Birch-isle  Family. 

Thorir. 


Sigrid,  Thorir  Hound.  Sigurd,  m. 

m.  i.  Olvir  of  Eggja.    m.  2.  Kalf  Arnison.  Sigrid,  d.  of  Thorolf  Skialg, 

I 1 1  Sigurd.  sister  to  Erling  Skialgson. 

Thorir.       Griotgarth. 

Ranveig,  m.  Asbiorn  Sealsbane. 

Jon  Arnison. 


Vidkum  of  Birchisle.     Sigurd  Hound.     Jarthrud.     Erling. 


ST. 

Law-Bersi. 
I 
Eilif.  Gyrd. 

I  I 
Day.                                                                   Amundi. 
J 1  | 

m.  Gregory.  Baugeid,  Gyrid,  m.  Gyrd. 

iulfson  abbess  of  Gimsey. 

younger.  Amundi. 


distinctly  that  he  was  Saxi's  son. 


1 6. 


Orkney. 


TABLE   XIV. 
Families  of  Saxi,  Day  Eilifson,  and  Law-bersi. 


Saxi  of  Wick. 


Law-Bersi. 

I 
Gyrd. 

I 

Amundi. 


Sigrid,  by 
K.  Magnus  Barefoot: 

1 
Olaf,  K.N. 


Thora,  by 
K.  Magnus  Barefoot: 

Sigurd  Slembi-Deacon. 


1  i 

Kan  Kingsbrother,1  m.  Borghild      Waterworm. 


Day. 


Sigurd  of  Eastort. 


Sigrid,  m. 

Haldor  Bryniulfson 

of  Vettland,  the  younger. 


1  , 


Gregory.  Bau  Gyrid,  m.  Gyrd. 

abbess  of  Gimsey.  | 

Amundi. 


Thorstein. 


John  of  Eastort,  m. 

Sigrid,  d.  of  Bard 

Guthormson  of  Rein. 


Andr<_s  1  leaf. 


Snorri  makes  Kari  a  grandson  of  Saxi;  but  Morkinskinna,  the  oldest  source,  states  distinctly  that  he  w 

TABLE  XV. 

Vettland  Family. 

Bryniulf  Camel  the  Elder, 
enfeoffed  of  the  manor  of  Vettland  by  Olaf  the  Holy,  toi6. 

i 

Halldor  the  Elder. 

I 
Bryniulf  Camel  the  Younger,  m, 


i.  Thora,  mother  of 
Magnus  Barefoot. 

Skialdvor,  m. 
Sigurd  Ranison. 

Nicolas. 


2.  Thora,  d.  of  Paul  I.,  Earl  of  Orkney. 

Haldor  the  Younger,  m. 
Sigrid  May's  daughter. 


C 

( 


Skialdvor. 


»# 


%«       « 


it 


^ 


UC  SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

ill  II  ill  mil  in  in  iiiii  m  mi 


.    I  III  llll  IIIII  II  II  III 

AA  000  660  292  4 


WEp.Sl.TYQf; 


3  1210  01258  0930 


■  y  ■■■.■,:.   :' 
1:4  :■■■■  '  ■     -    :.;::    (4 


