THE  FRANCIS  BACON  FOUNDATION 


#   3/3kS3 


/ 


y  .  s 


THE    SAVOY 


All  Contributions  should  be  directed  to  The  Editor  of 
The  Savoy,  Effingham  House,  Arundel  Street,  Strand,  W.C. 
MSS.  should  be  type-written,  and  stamps  enclosed  for  their 
return. 


AN  ILLUSTRATED  QUARTERLY 

No.  1  Price    2/6    net 


EDITORIAL    NOTE 


IT  is  hoped  that  "THE  SAVOY"  will  be  a  periodical  of  an  exclusively 
literary  and  artistic  kind.  To  present  Literature  in  the  shape  of  its  letter- 
press, Art  in  the  form  of  its  illustrations,  will  be  its  aim.  For  the  attainment 
of  that  aim  we  can  but  rely  on  our  best  endeavours  and  on  the  logic  of  our 
belief  that  good  writers  and  artists  will  care  to  see  their  work  in  company 
with  the  work  of  good  writers  and  artists.  Readers  who  look  to  a  new 
periodical  for  only  very  well-known  or  only  very  obscure  names  must  permit 
themselves  to  be  disappointed.  We  have  no  objection  to  a  celebrity  who 
deserves  to  be  celebrated,  or  to  an  unknown  person  who  has  not  been  seen 
often  enough  to  be  recognised  in  passing.  All  we  ask  from  our  contributors 
is  good  work,  and  good  work  is  all  we  offer  our  readers.  This  we  offer 
with  some  confidence.  We  have  no  formulas,  and  we  desire  no  false  unity 
of  form  or  matter.  We  have  not  invented  a  new  point  of  view.  We  are 
not  Realists,  or  Romanticists,  or  Decadents.  For  us,  all  art  is  good  which 
is  good  art.  We  hope  to  appeal  to  the  tastes  of  the  intelligent  by  not 
being  original  for  originality's  sake,  or  audacious  for  the  sake  of  advertise- 
ment, or  timid  for  the  convenience  of  the  elderly-minded.  We  intend  to 
print  no  verse  which  has  not  some  close  relationship  with  poetry,  no  lirtion 
which  has  not  a  certain  sense  of  what  is  finest  in  living  tact,  no  criticism 
which  has  not  some  knowledge,  discernment,  and  sincerity  in  its  judgment. 
We  could  scarcely  say  more,  and  we  are  content  to  think  we  can  scarcely 
say  less. 


LITERARY    CONTENTS 

PAGE 

EDITORIAL    .VOTE    -         -         -         -  5 

ON  GOING    TO   CHURCH.      An  Article  by  G.   Bernard  Sham  13 

TO  NANCY.  A  Story  by  Frederick  Wedmore  -  -  -  31 
MANDOLINE.       A    Poem,    translated    by    Arthur    Symons    from    the    Fifes 

Galantes  of  Paul  Verlaine  (illustrated)       -  42 

.-/    GOOD    PRINCE.      An  Article  by  Max  Beerbohm  45 

THE   EYES    OF  PRIDE.       A  Story  by   Ernest  Dowson  5. 

THE  THREE  MUSICIANS.  A  Poem  by  Aubrey  Beardsley  (illustrated)  65 
ZOLA:     THE    MAN   AND    HIS    WORK.       An    Article    by    Havelock 

Ellis --------  67 

TWO    LOVE    POEMS— The    Shadowy    Horses:     The    Travail  of  Passion. 

By  W.  B.  Yeats    - 83 

DIEPPE :    iSqj.       An  Article  by  Arthur  Symons  ( illustrated)  -                  -  84 

ELLEN.      A  Story  by  Rudolf  Dircks         -                 -         -         -         -         -  103 

SEA  MUSIC.       A  Poem  by  Mathilde  Blind                m 

A    GOLDEN  DECADE   IN  ENGLLSH  ART.      An  Article  by  Joseph 

Pennell  (illustrated) -  112 

A    GLASS   OE   WHLSKEY.      A  Story  by  Humphrey  James                      -  12? 

IMPENITENTIA    ULTLALA.      A  Poem  by  Ernest  Dowson  -         -         -  131 

THE  BLNDLNG    OF  THE  HALE.      A  Story  by  W.   B.   Yeats               -  135 

ON  CRITICISM  AND    THE    CRITIC.      An   Essay  by  Selwyn   Image  141 

THE  WANDERERS.  A  Poem  by  Arthur  Symons  -  -  -  -  149 
UNDER     THE     HILL.        A     Romantic    Story    by    Aubrey    Beardsley 

(Chapters    I,    II    and    III,    illustrated  by    the   Author)    -         -                  •  151 


ART    CONTENTS 

PAGE 

COVER  -  \  /•--._ 

TITLE  PAGE        -    -   Designed  by  Aubrey   Beardsley  3 

CONTENTS  PAGE)                                                              [  7 

./  LITHOGRAPH.  By  ('.  H.  Shannon  ....  _.,, 
MANDOLINE.       A    Wood- Engraving    from    a    Water-Colour    Drawing    b) 

Charles  Conder  "43 

REGENT  STREET    LONDON.     After  a  Pen-and-ink  Drawing  by  Joseph 

Pennell 49 

THE    THREE    MUSICIANS  }                                             f        -         -         -  64 

By  Aubrey  Beardsley 

TAILPLECE                           -      )      '                                       t         ...  66 

LA    PARISIENNE.      By  Louis  Oury         -         -         -         -         -         -         -81 

THE   BATHERS  |                                                [  -                                            -  87 

By  Aubrey  Beardsley 

THE  MOSKA     -J                                              1  -                                          •  91 

CHLOE.      By  \Y.  Rothenstein    -         -                                            ...  lo^ 

THE   OLD    CHARTIST  ]    By  F.  Sandys.      Reproduced    1                          -  119 

HAROLD                                              from   Once  a  Week             I  120 

A  DRAWING  by  J.   McNeill  Whistler.     Reproduced  from  Once  a  Week  121 

CARICATURE    OF   MR.    BEERBOHM    TREE.     A   Wood  -  Engraving 

after  the  Drawing  by  Max  Beerboh.m  -  -  -  -  125 
Til  AC  LOW:    THE  NORWEGIAN  PAINTER  AND  HIS  FAMILY. 

After  the  Oil-Painting  by  Jacques  L.  Blanche     -         -         -         -  133 

A  HEAD.  After  a  Crayon  Drawing  by  J.  Lemmen  (printed  in  sanguine)-  139 
lirr.     FLYING    ASS  :    a  Scene  from  Voltaire's   La  Pucelle.       Reproduced 

in   half-tone  from   an   Etching   by   W.    ROTHENSTEIN          -  147 


THE  ABBE 


'57 


THE    TOILET                                  -  \  -161 

-  By  Aitrrf.y  Beardsley  - 

THE   FRULTBEARERS       -         -  167 

A    LARGE    CHRISTMAS   CARD    '  -      — 


The  whole   of  the    Reproductions   in   this    Volume,    in   line   and   half-tone   blocks,   and 
the  two  7vood  engravings,  are  by  Mr.    Paul   NAUMANN. 

2 — 2 


ON    GOING    TO    CHURCH 

AS  a  modern  man,  concerned  with  matters  of  fine  art  and  living  in 
London  by  the  sweat  of  my  brain,  I  dwell  in  a  world  which,  unable 
to  live  by  bread  alone,  lives  spiritually  on  alcohol  and  morphia.  Young  and 
excessively  sentimental  people  live  on  love,  and  delight  in  poetry  or  fine 
writing  which  declares  that  love  is  Alpha  and  Omega ;  but  an  attentive 
examination  will  generally  establish  the  fact  that  this  kind  of  love,  ethereal 
as  it  seems,  is  merely  a  symptom  of  the  drugs  I  have  mentioned,  and 
does  not  occur  independently  except  in  those  persons  whose  normal  state 
is  similar  to  that  induced  in  healthy  persons  by  narcotic  stimulants.  If 
from  the  fine  art  of  to-day  we  set  aside  feelingless  or  prosaic  art,  which 
is,  properly,  not  tine  art  at  all,  we  may  safely  refer  most  of  the  rest  to 
feeling  produced  by  the  teapot,  the  bottle,  or  the  hypodermic  syringe.  An 
exhibition  of  the  cleverest  men  and  women  in  London  at  five  p.m.,  with 
their  afternoon  tea  cut  off,  would  shatter  many  illusions.  Tea  and  coffee 
and  cigarettes  produce  conversation ;  lager  beer  and  pipes  produce  routine 
journalism  ;  wine  and  gallantry  produce  brilliant  journalism,  essays  and 
novels  ;  brandy  and  cigars  produce  violently  devotional  or  erotic  poetry  : 
morphia  produces  tragic  exaltation  (useful  on  the  stage) ;  and  sobriety 
produces  an  average  curate's  sermon.  Again,  strychnine  and  arsenic  may 
be  taken  as  pick-me-ups ;  doctors  quite  understand  that  "  tonics "  mean 
drams  of  ether  ;  chlorodyne  is  a  universal  medicine  ;  chloral,  sulphonal 
and  the  like  call  up  Nature's  great  destroyer,  artificial  sleep ;  bromide 
of  potassium  will  reduce  the  over-sensitive  man  of  genius  to  a  con- 
dition in  which  the  alighting  of  a  wasp  on  his  naked  eyeball  will  not 
make  him  wink  ;  haschisch  tempts  the  dreamer  by  the  Oriental  glamour  of 
its  reputation  ;  and  gin  is  a  cheap  substitute  for  all  these  anodynes. 
Most   of   the  activity   ot   the   Press,   the   Pulpit,   the    Platform   and   the   Theatre 


,4  THE   SAVOY 

is  only  a  symptom  of  the  activity  of  the  drug  trade,  the  tea  trade,  the 
tobacco  trade  and  the  liquor  trade.  The  world  is  not  going  from  bad  to 
worse,  it  is  true  ;  but  the  increased  facilities  which  constitute  the  advance 
of  civilisation  include  facilities  for  drugging  oneself.  These  facilities  wipe 
whole  races  of  black  men  off  the  face  of  the  earth  ;  and  every  extension 
and  refinement  of  them  picks  a  stratum  out  of  white  society  and  devotes 
it  to  destruction.  Such  traditions  of  the  gross  old  habits  as  have  reached 
me  seem  to  be  based  on  the  idea  of  first  doing  your  day's  work  and  then 
enjoying  yourself  by  getting  drunk.  Nowadays  you  get  drunk  to  enable 
you  to  begin  work.  Shakespere's  opportunities  of  meddling  with  his  nerves 
were  much  more  limited  than  Dante  Rossetti's ;  but  it  is  not  clear  that 
the  advantage  of  the  change  lay  with  Rossetti.  Besides,  though  Shakespere 
may,  as  tradition  asserts,  have  died  of  drink  in  a  ditch,  he  at  all  events 
conceived  alcohol  as  an  enemy  put  by  a  man  into  his  own  mouth  to  steal 
away  his  brains ;  whereas  the  modern  man  conceives  it  as  an  indispensable 
means  of  setting  his  brains  going.  We  drink  and  drug,  not  for  the  pleasure 
of  it,  but  for  Dutch  inspiration  and  by  the  advice  of  our  doctors,  as  duellists 
drink  for  Dutch  courage  by  the  advice  of  their  seconds.  Obviously  this 
systematic,  utilitarian  drugging  and  stimulating,  though  necessarily  "moderate" 
(so  as  not  to  defeat  its  own  object),  is  more  dangerous  than  the  old  boozing 
if  we  are  to  regard  the  use  of  stimulants  as  an  evil. 

As  for  me,  I  do  not  clearly  see  where  a  scientific  line  can  be  drawn 
between  food  and  stimulants.  I  cannot  say,  like  Ninon  de  l'Enclos,  that  a 
bowl  of  soup  intoxicates  me  ;  but  it  stimulates  me  as  much  as  I  want  to  be 
stimulated,  which  is,  perhaps,  all  that  Ninon  meant.  Still,  I  have  not  failed 
to  observe  that  all  the  drugs,  from  tea  to  morphia,  and  all  the  drams,  from 
lager  beer  to  brandy,  dull  the  edge  of  self-criticism  and  make  a  man  content 
with  something  less  than  the  best  work  of  which  he  is  soberly  capable.  He 
thinks  his  work  better,  when  he  is  really  only  more  easily  satisfied  with  him- 
self. Those  whose  daily  task  is  only  a  routine,  for  the  sufficient  discharge  of 
which  a  man  need  hardly  be  more  than  half  alive,  may  seek  this  fool's 
paradise  without  detriment  to  their  work  ;  but  to  those  professional  men  whose 


ON   GOING    TO   CHURCH  15 

art  affords  practically  boundless  scope  for  skill  of  execution  and  elevation 
of  thought,  to  take  drug  or  dram  is  to  sacrifice  the  keenest,  most  precious 
part  of  life  to  a  dollop  of  lazy  and  vulgar  comfort  for  which  no  true  man  of 
genius  should  have  any  greater  stomach  than  the  lady  of  the  manor  has  for 
her  ploughman's  lump  of  fat  bacon.  To  the  creative  artist  stimulants  are 
especially  dangerous,  since  they  produce  that  terrible  dream-glamour  in  which 
the  ugly,  the  grotesque,  the  wicked,  the  morbific  begin  to  fascinate  and 
obsess  instead  of  disgusting.  This  effect,  however  faint  it  may  be,  is  always 
produced  in  some  degree  by  drugs.  The  mark  left  on  a  novel  in  the  Leisure 
Hour  by  a  cup  of  tea  may  be  imperceptible  to  a  bishop's  wife  who  has 
just  had  two  cups ;  but  the  effect  is  there  as  certainly  as  if  De  Quincey's 
eight  thousand  drops  of  laudanum  had  been  substituted. 

A  very  little  experience  of  the  world  of  art  and  letters  will  convince 
any  open-minded  person  that  abstinence,  pure  and  simple,  is  not  a  practicable 
remedy  for  this  state  of  things.  There  is  a  considerable  commercial  demand 
for  maudlin  or  nightmarish  art  and  literature  which  no  sober  person  would 
produce,  the  manufacture  of  which  must  accordingly  be  frankly  classed 
industrially  with  the  unhealthy  trades,  and  morally  with  the  manufacture 
of  unwholesome  sweets  for  children  or  the  distilling  of  gin.  What  the  victims 
of  this  industry  call  imagination  and  artistic  faculty  is  nothing  but  attenuated 
delirium  tremens,  like  Pasteur's  attenuated  hydrophobia.  It  is  useless  to 
encumber  an  argument  with  these  predestined  children  of  perdition.  The 
only  profitable  cases  are  those  to  consider  of  people  engaged  in  the 
healthy  pursuit  of  those  arts  which  afford  scope  for  the  greatest  mental 
and  physical  energy,  the  clearest  and  acutest  reason  and  the  most  elevated 
perception.  Work  of  this  kind  requires  an  intensity  of  energy  of  which  no 
ordinary  labourer  or  routine  official  can  form  any  conception.  If  the  dreams 
of  Keeleyism  could  be  so  far  realised  as  to  transmute  human  brain  energy 
into  vulgar  explosive  force,  the  head  of  Shakespere,  used  as  a  bombshell, 
might  conceivably  blow  England  out  of  the  sea.  At  all  events,  the  succession 
of  efforts  by  which  a  Shaksperean  play,  a  Beethoven  symphony,  or  a  Wagner 
music-drama   is   produced,  though    it    may   not   overtax    Shakespere,  Beethoven 


1 6  THE   SAVOY 

or  Wagner,  must  certainly  tax  even  them  to  the  utmost,  and  would  be  as 
prodigiously  impossible  to  the  average  professional  man  as  the  writing  of  an 
ordinary  leading  article  to  a  ploughman.  What  is  called  professional  work 
is,  in  point  of  severity,  just  what  you  choose  to  make  it,  either  commonplace, 
easy  and  requiring  only  extensive  industry  to  be  lucrative,  or  else  dis- 
tinguished, difficult  and  exacting  the  fiercest  intensive  industry  in  return, 
after  a  probation  of  twenty  years  or  so,  for  authority,  reputation  and  an 
income  only  sufficient  for  simple  habits  and  plain  living.  The  whole 
professional  world  lies  between  these  two  extremes.  At  the  one,  you 
have  the  man  to  whom  his  profession  is  only  a  means  of  making  himself 
and  his  family  comfortable  and  prosperous :  at  the  other,  you  have  the  man 
who  sacrifices  everything  and  everybody,  himself  included,  to  the  perfection 
of  his  work — to  the  passion  for  efficiency  which  is  the  true  master- 
passion  of  the  artist.  At  the  one,  work  is  a  necessary  evil  and 
moneymaking  a  pleasure :  at  the  other,  work  is  the  objective  realisation  of 
life  and  moneymaking  a  nuisance.  At  the  one,  men  drink  and  drug 
to  make  themselves  comfortable :  at  the  other,  to  stimulate  their  working 
faculty.  Preach  mere  abstinence  at  the  one,  and  you  are  preaching  nothing 
but  diminution  of  happiness.  Preach  it  at  the  other,  and  you  are  proposing 
a  reduction  of  efficiency.  If  you  are  to  prevail,  you  must  propose  a  sub- 
stitute. And  the  only  one  I  have  yet  been  able  to  hit  on  is — going  to 
church. 

It  will  not  be  disputed,  I  presume,  that  an  unstimulated  saint 
can  work  as  hard,  as  long,  as  finely  and,  on  occasion,  as  fiercely,  as 
a  stimulated  sinner.  Recuperation,  recreation,  inspiration  seem  to  come  to 
the  saint  far  more  surely  than  to  the  man  who  grows  coarser  and  fatter 
with  every  additional  hundred  a  year,  and  who  calls  the  saint  an  ascetic. 
A  comparison  of  the  works  of  our  carnivorous  drunkard  poets  with  those 
of  Shelley,  or  of  Dr.  Johnson's  dictionary  with  that  of  the  vegetarian  Littre, 
is  sufficient  to  show  that  the  secret  of  attaining  the  highest  eminence  either 
in  poetry  or  in  dictionary  compiling  (and  all  fine  literature  lies  between  the 
two),  is  to  be  found  neither  in  alcohol  nor  in  our  monstrous  habit  of  bringing 


ON   GOISG    TO   CHURCH  17 

millions  of  useless  and  disagreeable  animals  into  existence  for  the  express 
purpose  of  barbarously  slaughtering  them,  roasting  their  corpses  and  eating 
them.  I  have  myself  tried  the  experiment  of  not  eating  meat  or  drinking  tea, 
coffee  or  spirits  for  more  than  a  dozen  years  past,  without,  as  far  I  can 
discover,  placing  myself  at  more  than  my  natural  disadvantages  relatively  to 
those  colleagues  of  mine  who  patronise  the  slaughter-house  and  the  distillery. 
But  then  I  go  to  church.  If  you  should  chance  to  see,  in  a  country  church- 
yard, a  bicycle  leaning  against  a  tombstone,  you  are  not  unlikely  to  find  me 
inside  the  church  if  it  is  old  enough  or  new  enough  to  be  fit  for  its 
purpose.  There  I  find  rest  without  languor  and  recreation  without  excitement, 
both  of  a  quality  unknown  to  the  traveller  who  turns  from  the  village  church 
to  the  village  inn  and  seeks  to  renew  himself  with  shandygaff.  Any  place 
where  men  dwell,  village  or  city,  is  a  reflection  of  the  consciousness  of  every 
single  man.  In  my  consciousness  there  is  a  market,  a  garden,  a  dwelling,  a 
workshop,  a  lover's  walk — above  all,  a  cathedral.  My  appeal  to  the  master- 
builder  is :  .Mirror  this  cathedral  for  me  in  enduring  stone  ;  make  it  with 
hands  ;  let  it  direct  its  sure  and  clear  appeal  to  my  senses,  so  that  when  my 
spirit  is  vaguely  groping  after  an  elusive  mood  my  eye  shall  be  caught  by  the 
skyward  tower,  showing  me  where,  within  the  cathedral,  I  may  find  my  way 
to  the  cathedral  within  me.  With  a  right  knowledge  of  this  great  function 
of  the  cathedral  builder,  and  craft  enough  to  set  an  arch  on  a  couple  of  pillars, 
make  doors  and  windows  in  a  good  wall  and  put  a  roof  over  them,  any 
modern  man  might,  it  seems  to  me,  build  churches  as  they  built  them  in  the 
middle  ages,  if  only  the  pious  founders  and  the  parson  would  let  him.  For 
want  of  that  knowledge,  gentlemen  of  Mr.  Pecksniff's  profession  make 
fashionable  pencil-drawings,  presenting  what  Mr.  Pecksniff's  creator  elsewhere 
calls  an  architectooralooral  appearance,  with  which,  having  delighted  the 
darkened  eyes  of  the  committee  and  the  clerics,  they  have  them  translated  into 
bricks  and  masonry  and  take  a  shilling  in  the  pound  on  the  bill,  with  the 
result  that  the  bishop  may  consecrate  the  finished  building  until  he  is  black 
in  the  face  without  making  a  real  church  of  it.  Can  it  be  doubted  by  the 
pious    that    babies    baptised    in    such    places    go    to    limbo   if    they    die    before 


i8  THE   SAVOY 

qualifying  themselves  for  other  regions  ;  that  prayers  said  there  do  not  count ; 
nay,  that  such  purposeless,  respectable-looking  interiors  are  irreconcilable  with 
the  doctrine  of  Omnipresence,  since  the  bishop's  blessing  is  no  spell  of  black 
magic  to  imprison  Omnipotence  in  a  place  that  must  needs  be  intolerable  to 
Omniscience  ?  At  all  events,  the  godhead  in  me,  certified  by  the  tenth 
chapter  of  St.  John's  Gospel  to  those  who  will  admit  no  other  authority, 
refuses  to  enter  these  barren  places.  This  is  perhaps  fortunate,  since  they 
are  generally  kept  locked ;  and  even  when  they  are  open,  they  are  jealously- 
guarded  in  the  spirit  of  that  Westminster  Abbey  verger  who,  not  long  ago, 
had  a  stranger  arrested  for  kneeling  down,  and  explained,  when  remonstrated 
with,  that  if  that  sort  of  thing  were  tolerated,  they  would  soon  have  people 
praying  all  over  the  place.  Happily  it  is  not  so  everywhere.  You  may  now 
ride  or  tramp  into  a  village  with  a  fair  chance  of  finding  the  church-door  open 
and  a  manuscript  placard  in  the  porch,  whereby  the  parson,  speaking  no  less 
as  a  man  and  a  brother  than  as  the  porter  of  the  House  Beautiful,  gives  you 
to  understand  that  the  church  is  open  always  for  those  who  have  any  use  for 
it.  Inside  such  churches  you  will  often  find  not  only  carefully-cherished  work 
from  the  ages  of  faith,  which  you  expect  to  find  noble  and  lovely,  but 
sometimes  a  quite  modern  furnishing  of  the  interior  and  draping  of  the  altar, 
evidently  done,  not  by  contract  with  a  firm  celebrated  for  its  illustrated 
catalogues,  but  by  someone  who  loved  and  understood  the  church,  and  who, 
when  baffled  in  the  search  for  beautiful  things,  had  at  least  succeeded  in 
avoiding  indecently  commercial  and  incongruous  ones.  And  then  the  search 
for  beauty  is  not  always  baffled.  When  the  dean  and  chapter  of  a  cathedral 
want  not  merely  an  ugly  but  a  positively  beastly  pulpit  to  preach  from — 
something  like  the  Albert  Memorial  canopy,  only  much  worse — they  always 
get  it,  improbable  and  unnatural  as  the  enterprise  is.  Similarly,  when  an 
enlightened  country  parson  wants  an  unpretending  tub  to  thump,  with  a  few 
pretty  panels  in  it  and  a  pleasant  shape  generally,  he  will,  with  -a  little 
perseverance,  soon  enough  find  a  craftsman  who  has  picked  up  the  thread 
of  the  tradition  of  his  craft  from  the  time  when  that  craft  was  a  fine  art — 
as    may    be    done   nowadays    more    easily    than   was   possible    before    we    had 


ON   GOING   TO   CHURCH  i9 

cheap  trips  and  cheap  photographs* — and  who  is  only  too  glad  to  be  allowed 
to  try  his  hand  at  something  in  the  line  of  that  tradition.  Some  months  ago, 
bicycling  in  the  west  country,  I  came  upon  a  little  church,  built  long  before 
the  sense  of  beauty  and  devotion  had  been  supplanted  by  the  sense  of 
respectability  and  talent,  in  which  some  neat  panels  left  by  a  modern  carver 
had  been  painted  with  a  few  saints  on  gold  backgrounds,  evidently  by  some 
woman  who  had  tried  to  learn  what  she  could  from  the  early  Florentine 
masters  and  had  done  the  work  in  the  true  votive  spirit,  without  any  taint  of 
the  amateur  exhibiting  his  irritating  and  futile  imitations  of  the  celebrated-artist 
business.  From  such  humble  but  quite  acceptable  efforts,  up  to  the  master- 
piece in  stained  glass  by  William  Morris  and  Burne-Jones  which  occasionally 
astonishes  you  in  places  far  more  remote  and  unlikely  than  Birmingham  or 
Oxford,  convincing  evidence  may  be  picked  up  here  and  there  that  the  decay  of 
religious  art  from  the  sixteenth  century  to  the  nineteenth  was  not  caused  by  any 
atrophy  of  the  artistic  faculty,  but  was  an  eclipse  of  religion  by  science  and  com- 
merce. It  is  an  odd  period  to  look  back  on  from  the  churchgoer's  point  of  view 
— those  eclipsed  centuries  calling  their  predecessors  "  the  dark  ages,"  and  trying 
to  prove  their  own  piety  by  raising,  at  huge  expense,  gigantic  monuments  in 
enduring  stone  (not  very  enduring,  though,  sometimes)  of  their  infidelity. 
Go  to  Milan,  and  join  the  rush  of  tourists  to  its  petrified  christening -cake 
of  a  cathedral.  The  projectors  of  that  costly  ornament  spared  no  expense  to 
prove  that  their  devotion  was  ten  times  greater  than  that  of  the  builders  of 
San  Ambrogio.  But  every  pound  they  spent  only  recorded  in  marble  that 
their  devotion  was  a  hundred  times  less.  Go  on  to  Florence  and  try  San 
Lorenzo,     a     really     noble     church     (which     the     Milan     Cathedral     is     not), 


*  At  the  bookstall  in  the  South  Kensington  Museum,  any  young  craftsman,  or  other  person, 
can  turn  over  hundreds  of  photographs  taken  by  Alinari,  of  Florence,  from  the  finest  work  in  the 
churches  and  palaces  of  Italy.  He  will  not  be  importuned  to  buy,  or  grudged  access  to  the  port- 
folios, which  are,  fortunately,  in  charge  of  a  lady  who  is  a  first-rate  public  servant.  He  can, 
however,  purchase  as  many  of  the  photographs  as  he  wants  for  sixpence  each.  This  invaluable 
arrangement,  having  been  made  at  the  public  expense,  is  carefully  kept  from  the  public  knowledge, 
because,  if  it  were  properly  advertised,  complaints  might  be  made  by  English  shopkeepers  who 
object  to  our  buying  Alinari's  cheap  photographs  instead  of  their  own  dear  photographs  of  the 
Great  Wheel  at  Earl's  Court. 


20  THE   SAVOY 

Brunelleschi's  masterpiece.  You  cannot  but  admire  its  intellectual  command 
of  form,  its  unaffected  dignity,  its  power  and  accomplishment,  its  masterly 
combination  of  simplicity  and  homogeneity  of  plan  with  elegance  and 
variety  of  detail  :  you  are  even  touched  by  the  retention  of  that  part  of  the 
beauty  of  the  older  time  which  was  perceptible  to  the  Renascent  intellect  before 
its  weaning  from  heavenly  food  had  been  followed  by  starvation.  You  under- 
stand the  deep  and  serious  respect  which  Michael  Angelo  had  for  Brunelleschi 
— why  he  said  "  I  can  do  different  work,  but  not  better."  But  a  few  minutes' 
walk  to  Santa  Maria  Novella  or  Santa  Croce,  or  a  turn  in  the  steam-tram 
to  San  Miniato,  will  bring  you  to  churches  built  a  century  or  two  earlier ; 
and  you  have  only  to  cross  their  thresholds  to  feel,  almost  before  you  have 
smelt  the  incense,  the  difference  between  a  church  built  to  the  pride  and 
glory  of  God  (not  to  mention  the  Medici)  and  one  built  as  a  sanctuary 
shielded  by  God's  presence  from  pride  and  glory  and  all  the  other  burdens 
of  life.  In  San  Lorenzo  up  goes  your  head  —  every  isolating  advantage  you 
have  of  talent,  power  or  rank  asserts  itself  with  thrilling  poignancy.  In  the 
older  churches  you  forget  yourself,  and  are  the  equal  of  the  beggar  at 
the  door,  standing  on  ground  made  holy  by  that  labour  in  which  we 
have  discovered  the  reality  of  prayer.  You  may  also  hit  on  a  church 
like  the  Santissima  Annunziata,  carefully  and  expensively  brought  up 
to  date,  quite  in  our  modern  church -restoring  manner,  by  generations 
of  princes  chewing  the  cud  of  the  Renascence ;  and  there  you  will 
see  the  worship  of  glory  and  the  self-sufficiency  of  intellect  giving  way 
to  the  display  of  wealth  and  elegance  as  a  guarantee  of  social 
importance — in  another  word,  snobbery.  In  later  edifices  you  see  how 
intellect,  finding  its  worshippers  growing  colder,  had  to  abandon  its  dignity 
and  cut  capers  to  attract  attention,  giving  the  grotesque,  the  eccentric,  the 
baroque,  even  the  profane  and  blasphemous,  until,  finally,  it  is  thoroughly 
snubbed  out  of  its  vulgar  attempts  at  self-assertion,  and  mopes  conventionally 
in  our  modern  churches  of  St.  Nicholas  Without  and  St.  Walker  Within, 
locked  up,  except  at  service-time,  from  week's  end  to  week's  end  without  ever 
provoking    the    smallest    protest    from    a    public     only    too    glad    to    have    an 


ON    GOING    TO    CHURCH  21 

excuse  for  not  going  into  them.  You  may  read  the  same  history  of  the 
human  soul  in  any  art  you  like  to  select  ;  but  he  who  runs  may  read  it  in 
the  streets  by  looking  at   the  churches. 

Now,  consider  for  a  moment  the  prodigious  increase  of  the  population  of 
Christendom  since  the  church  of  San  Zeno  Maggiore  was  built  at  Verona, 
in  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries.  Let  a  man  go  and  renew  himself 
for  half  an  hour  occasionally  in  San  Zeno,  and  he  need  eat  no  corpses,  nor 
drink  any  drugs  or  drams  to  sustain  him.  Yet  not  even  all  Verona,  much 
less  all  Europe,  could  resort  to  San  Zeno  in  the  thirteenth  century  ;  whereas, 
in  the  nineteenth,  a  thousand  perfect  churches  would  be  but  as  a  thousand 
drops  of  rain  on  Sahara.  Yet  in  London,  with  four  millions  and  a  quarter  of 
people  in  it,  how  many  perfect  or  usable  churches  are  there  ?  And  of  the 
few  we  have,  how  many  are  apparent  to  the  wayfarer  ?  Who,  for  instance, 
would  guess  from  the  repulsive  exterior  of  Westminster  Abbey  that  there  are 
beautiful  chapels  and  a  noble  nave  within,  or  cloisters  without,  on  the 
hidden  side  ? 

1  remember,  a  dozen  years  ago,  Parson  Shuttleworth,  of  St.  Nicholas 
Cole  Abbey  in  the  city,  tried  to  persuade  the  city  man  to  spend  his  mid-day 
hour  of  rest  in  church  ;  guaranteeing  him  immunity  from  sermons,  prayers 
and  collections,  and  even  making  the  organ  discourse  Bach  and  Wagner, 
instead  of  Goss  and  Jackson.  This  singular  appeal  to  a  people  walking  in 
darkness  was  quite  successful :  the  mid-day  hour  is  kept  to  this  day  ;  but 
Parson  Shuttleworth  has  to  speak  for  five  minutes — by  general  and  insistent 
request — as  Housekeeper,  though  he  has  placed  a  shelf  of  books  in  the 
church  for  those  who  would  rather  read  than  listen  to  him  or  the  organ. 
This  was  a  good  thought ;  for  all  inspired  books  should  be  read  either  in 
church  or  on  the  eternal  hills.  St.  Nicholas  Cole  Abbey  makes  you  feel,  the 
moment  you  enter  it,  that  you  are  in  a  rather  dingy  rococo  banqueting-room, 
built  for  a  city  company.  Corpulence  and  comfort  are  written  on  every  stone 
of  it.  Considering  that  money  is  dirt  cheap  now  in  the  city,  it  is  strange  that 
Mr.  Shuttleworth  cannot  get  twenty  thousand  pounds  to  build  a  real  church. 
He   would,  soon  enough,   if  the  city  knew  what   a   church   was.      The  twenty 


22  THE   SAVOY 

thousand  pounds  need  not  be  wasted,  either,  on  an  "  architect."  I  was 
lately  walking  in  a  polite  suburb  of  Newcastle,  when  I  saw  a  church  —  a 
Hem  church  —  with,  of  all  things,  a  detached  campanile;  at  sight  of  which 
I  could  not  help  exclaiming  profanely :  "  How  the  deuce  did  you  find  your 
way  to  Newcastle  ? "  So  I  went  in  and,  after  examining  the  place  with 
much  astonishment,  addressed  myself  to  the  sexton,  who  happened  to  be 
about.  I  asked  him  who  built  the  church,  and  he  gave  me  the  name  of 
Mr.  Mitchell,  who  turned  out,  however,  to  be  the  pious  founder — a  ship- 
builder prince,  with  some  just  notion  of  his  princely  function.  But  this 
was  not  what  I  wanted  to  know  ;  so  I  asked  who  was  the — the  word  stuck 
in  my  throat  a  little — the  architect.  He,  it  appeared,  was  one  Spence.  "  Was 
that  marble  carving  in  the  altar  and  that  mosaic  decoration  round  the  chancel 
part  of  his  design  ?  "  said  I.  "  Yes,"  said  the  sexton,  with  a  certain  surliness 
as  if  he  suspected  me  of  disapproving.  "  The  ironwork  is  good,"  I  remarked, 
to  appease  him  ;  "  who  did  that  ?  "  "  Mr.  Spence  did."  "  Who  carved  that 
wooden  figure  of  St.  George  ? "  (the  patron  saint  of  the  edifice).  "  Mr. 
Spence  did."  "  Who  painted  those  four  panels  in  the  dado  with  figures  in 
oil?"  "Mr.  Spence  did:  he  meant  them  to  be  at  intervals  round  the 
church,  but  we  put  them  all  together  by  mistake."  "  Then,  perhaps,  he 
designed  the  stained  windows,  too  ?  "  "  Yes,  most  of  em."  I  got  so  irritated 
at  this — feeling  that  Spence  was  going  too  far — that  I  remarked  sarcas- 
tically that  no  doubt  Mr.  Spence  designed  Mr.  Mitchell's  ships  as 
well,  which  turned  out  to  be  the  case  as  far  as  the  cabins  were 
concerned.  Clearly,  this  Mr.  Spence  is  an  artist-craftsman  with  a 
vengeance.  Many  people,  I  learnt,  came  to  see  the  church,  especially  in 
the  first  eighteen  months ;  but  some  of  the  congregation  thought  it  too 
ornamental.  (At  St.  Nicholas  Cole  Abbey,  by  the  way,  some  of  the 
parishioners  objected  at  first  to  Mr.  Shuttleworth  as  being  too  religious.) 
Now,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  this  Newcastle  church  of  St.  George's  is  not 
ornamental  enough.  Under  modern  commercial  conditions,  it  is  impossible 
to  get  from  the  labour  in  the  building  -  trade  that  artistic  quality  in  the 
actual    masonry    which     makes    a    good     mediaeval     building     independent    of 


ON   GOING    TO   CHURCH  23 

applied  ornament.  Wherever  Mr.  Spence's  artist's  hand  has  passed  over 
the  interior  surface,  the  church  is  beautiful.  Why  should  his  hand  not  pass 
over  every  inch  of  it  ?  It  is  true,  the  complete  finishing  of  a  large  church 
of  the  right  kind  has  hardly  ever  been  carried  through  by  one  man.  Some- 
times the  man  has  died  :  more  often  the  money  has  failed.  But  in  this 
instance  the  man  is  not  dead ;  and  surely  money  cannot  fail  in  the  most 
fashionable  suburb  of  Newcastle.  The  chancel  with  its  wonderful  mosaics,  the 
baptistry  with  its  ornamented  stones,  the  four  painted  panels  of  the  dado,  are 
only  samples  of  what  the  whole  interior  should  and  might  be.  All  that  cold 
contract  masonry  must  be  redeemed,  stone  by  stone,  by  the  travail  of  the 
artist-churchmaker.  Nobody,  not  even  an  average  respectable  Sabbath- 
keeper,  will  dare  to  say  then  that  it  is  over-decorated,  however  out  of  place 
in  it  he  may  feel  his  ugly  Sunday  clothes  and  his  wife's  best  bonnet. 
Howbeit,  this  church  of  St.  George's  in  Newcastle  proves  my  point,  namely, 
that  churches  fit  for  their  proper  use  can  still  be  built  by  men  who  follow 
the  craft  of  Orcagna  instead  of  the  profession  of  Mr.  Pecksniff,  and  built 
cheaply,  too ;  for  I  took  the  pains  to  ascertain  what  this  large  church 
cost,  and  found  that  ^30,000  was  well  over  the  mark.  For  aught 
I  know,  there  may  be  dozens  of  such  churches  rising  in  the  country ;  for 
Mr.  Spence's  talent,  though  evidently  a  rare  and  delicate  one,  cannot  be 
unique,  and  what  he  has  done  in  his  own  style  other  men  can  do  in  theirs, 
if  they  want  to,  and  are  given  the  means  by  those  who  can  make  money, 
and   are   capable   of  the   same    want. 

There  is  still  one  serious  obstacle  to  the  use  of  churches  on  the  very 
day  when  most  people  are  best  able  and  most  disposed  to  visit  them.  I 
mean,  of  course,  the  services.  When  I  was  a  little  boy,  I  was  compelled 
to  go  to  church  on  Sunday ;  and  though  I  escaped  from  that  intolerable 
bondage  before  I  was  ten,  it  prejudiced  me  so  violently  against  churchgoing 
that  twenty  years  elapsed  before,  in  foreign  lands  and  in  pursuit  of  works 
of  art,  I  became  once  more  a  churchgoer.  To  this  day.  my  flesh  creeps 
when  I  recall  that  genteel  suburban  Irish  Protestant  church,  built  by 
Roman    Catholic    workmen    who    would    have    considered    themselves    damned 


24  THE   SAVOY 

had  they  crossed  its  threshold  afterwards.  Every  separate  stone,  every  pane 
of  glass,  every  fillet  of  ornamental  ironwork — half-dog-collar,  half-coronet — in 
that  building  must  have  sowed  a  separate  evil  passion  in  my  young  heart. 
Yes  :  all  the  vulgaritv.  savagery,  and  bad  blood  which  has  marred  my  literary 
work,  was  certainly  laid  upon  me  in  that  house  of  Satan !  The  mere  nullity 
of  the  building  could  make  no  positive  impression  on  me :  but  what  could, 
and  did,  were  the  unnaturally  motionless  figures  of  the  congregation  in  their 
Sunday  clothes  and  bonnets,  and  their  set  faces,  pale  with  the  malignant 
rigidity  produced  by  the  suppression  of  all  expression.  And  yet  these  people 
were  always  moving  and  watching  one  another  by  stealth,  as  convicts  com- 
municate with  one  another.  So  was  I.  I  had  been  told  to  keep  my  restless 
little  limbs  still  all  through  those  interminable  hours ;  not  to  talk ;  and,  above 
all,  to  be  happy  and  holy  there  and  glad  that  I  was  not  a  wicked  little  boy 
pla34ng  in  the  fields  instead  of  worshipping  God.  I  hypocritically  acquiesced  : 
but  the  state  of  my  conscience  may  be  imagined,  especially  as  I  implicitly 
believed  that  all  the  rest  of  the  congregation  were  perfectly  sincere  and  good. 
I  remember  at  that  time  dreaming  one  night  that  I  was  dead  and  had  gone 
to  heaven.  The  picture  of  heaven  which  the  efforts  of  the  then  Established 
Church  of  Ireland  had  conveyed  to  my  childish  imagination,  was  a  waiting 
room  with  walls  of  pale  sky-coloured  tabbinet,  and  a  pew-like  bench  running  all 
round,  except  at  one  corner,  where  there  was  a  door.  I  was,  somehow,  aware 
that  God  was  in  the  next  room,  accessible  through  that  door.  I  was  seated 
on  the  bench  with  my  ankles  tightly  interlaced  to  prevent  my  legs  dangling, 
behaving  myself  with  all  my  might  before  the  grown-up  people,  who  all 
belonged  to  the  Sunday  congregation,  and  were  either  sitting  on  the  bench 
as  if  at  church  or  else  moving  solemnly  in  and  out  as  if  there  were 
a  dead  person  in  the  house.  A  grimly-handsome  lady  who  usually  sat  in  a 
corner  seat  near  me  in  church,  and  whom  I  believed  to  be  thoroughly  con- 
versant w'ith  the  arrangements  of  the  Almighty,  was  to  introduce  me  presently 
into  the  next  room — a  moment  which  I  was  supposed  to  await  with  joy  and 
enthusiasm.  Really,  of  course,  my  heart  sank  like  lead  within  me  at  the 
thought  :    for    I    felt    that    my    feeble   affectation   of  piety  could   not  impose  on 


ON   GOING    TO   CHURCH  25 

Omniscience,  and  that  one  glance  of  that  all-searching  eye  would  discover 
that  I  had  been  allowed  to  come  to  heaven  by  mistake.  Unfortunately  for 
the  interest  of  this  narrative,  I  awoke,  or  wandered  off  into  another  dream, 
before  the  critical  moment  arrived.  But  it  goes  far  enough  to  show  that 
I  was  by  no  means  an  insusceptible  subject  :  indeed,  I  am  sure,  from  other 
early  experiences  of  mine,  that  if  I  had  been  turned  loose  in  a  real  church, 
and  allowed  to  wander  and  stare  about,  or  hear  noble  music  there  instead 
of  that  most  accursed  Te  Deum  of  Jackson's  and  a  senseless  droning  of 
the  Old  Hundredth,  I  should  never  have  seized  the  opportunity  of  a  great 
evangelical  revival,  which  occurred  when  I  was  still  in  my  teens,  to  begin 
my  literary  career  with  a  letter  to  the  Press  (which  was  duly  printed), 
announcing  with  inflexible  materialistic  logic,  and  to  the  extreme  horror  of 
my  respectable  connections,  that  I  was  an  atheist.  When,  later  on,  I  was 
led  to  the  study  of  the  economic  basis  of  the  respectability  of  that  and  similar 
congregations,  I  was  inexpressibly  relieved  to  find  that  it  represented  a  mere 
passing  phase  of  industrial  confusion,  and  could  never  have  substantiated  its 
claims  to  my  respect  if.  as  a  child,  I  had  been  able  to  bring  it  to  book.  To 
this  very  day,  whenever  there  is  the  slightest  danger  of  my  being  mistaken 
for  a  votary  of  the  blue  tabbinet  waiting-room  or  a  supporter  of  that  morality 
in  which  wrong  and  right,  base  and  noble,  evil  and  good,  really  mean 
nothing  more  than  the  kitchen  and  the  drawing-room,  I  hasten  to  claim 
honourable   exemption,    as   atheist    and    socialist,    from    any    such    complicity. 

When  I  at  last  took  to  church-going  again,  a  kindred  difficulty  beset  me, 
especially  in  Roman  Catholic  countries.  In  Italy,  for  instance,  churches  are 
used  in  such  a  way  that  priceless  pictures  become  smeared  with  filthy  tallow- 
soot,  and  have  sometimes  to  be  rescued  by  the  temporal  power  and  placed  in 
national  galleries.  But  worse  than  this  are  the  innumerable  daily  services 
which  disturb  the  truly  religious  visitor.  If  these  were  decently  and  intelli- 
gently conducted  by  genuine  mystics  to  whom  the  Mass  was  no  mere  rite 
or  miracle,  but  a  real  communion,  the  celebrants  might  reasonably  claim 
a  place  in  the  church  as  their  share  of  the  common  human  right  to  its 
use.  «J3ut    the  average   Italian   priest,   personally   uncleanly,    and   with   chronic 


26  THE   SAVOY 

catarrh  of  the  nose  and  throat,  produced  and  maintained  by  sleeping  and 
living  in  frowsy,  ill-ventilated  rooms,  punctuating  his  gabbled  Latin  only 
by  expectorative  hawking,  and  making  the  decent  guest  sicken  and  shiver 
every  time  the  horrible  splash  of  spitten  mucus  echoes  along  the  vaulting 
from  the  marble  steps  of  the  altar :  this  unseemly  wretch  should  be  seized 
and  put  out,  bell,  book,  candle  and  all,  until  he  learns  to  behave  himself. 
The  English  tourist  is  often  lectured  for  his  inconsiderate  behaviour  in 
Italian  churches,  for  walking  about  during  service,  talking  loudly,  thrusting 
himself  rudely  between  a  worshipper  and  an  altar  to  examine  a  painting, 
even  for  stealing  chips  of  stone  and  scrawling  his  name  on  statues.  But 
as  far  as  the  mere  disturbance  of  the  services  is  concerned,  and  the  often 
very  evident  disposition  of  the  tourist — especially  the  experienced  tourist — 
to  regard  the  priest  and  his  congregation  as  troublesome  intruders,  a  week 
spent  in  Italy  will  convince  any  unprejudiced  person  that  this  is  a  perfectly 
reasonable  attitude.  I  have  seen  inconsiderate  British  behaviour  often  enough 
both  in  church  and  out  of  it.  The  slow-witted  Englishman  who  refuses  to 
get  out  of  the  way  of  the  Host,  and  looks  at  the  bellringer  going  before  it 
with  "  Where  the  devil  are  you  shoving  to  ? "  written  in  every  pucker  of  his 
free-born  British  brow,  is  a  familiar  figure  to  me ;  but  I  have  never  seen  any 
stranger  behave  so  insufferably  as  the  officials  of  the  church  habitually  do. 
It  is  the  sacristan  who  teaches  you,  when  once  you  are  committed  to  tipping 
him,  not  to  waste  your  good  manners  on  the  kneeling  worshippers  who  are 
snatching  a  moment  from  their  daily  round  of  drudgery  and  starvation  to  be 
comforted  by  the  Blessed  Virgin  or  one  of  the  saints :  it  is  the  officiating 
priest  who  makes  you  understand  that  the  congregation  are  past  shocking  by 
any  indecency  that  you  would  dream  of  committing,  and  that  the  black  looks 
of  the  congregation  are  directed  at  the  foreigner  and  the  heretic  only,  and 
imply  a  denial  of  your  right  as  a  human  being  to  your  share  of  the  use  of 
the  church.  That  right  should  be  unflinchingly  asserted  on  all  proper  occasions. 
I  know  no  contrary  right  by  which  the  great  Catholic  churches  made  for  the 
world  by  the  great  church-builders  should  be  monopolised  by  any  sect  as 
against   any  man  who   desires    to    use    them.       My   own   faith   is   clear:    I  am 


ON   GOING    TO   CHURCH  27 

a   resolute   Protestant;    1    believe   in    the    Holy  Catholic   Church;    in   the   Holy 
Trinity    of    Father,    Son    (or    Mother,     Daughter)    and    Spirit  ;    in    the    Com- 
munion   of  Saints,    the    Life    to    Come,    the    Immaculate    Conception,    and    the 
everyday    reality    of   Godhead    and    the    Kingdom    of    Heaven.     Also,  I   believe 
that   salvation  depends  on    redemption    from    belief  in    miracles ;    and    I   regard 
St.    Athanasius   as   an    irreligious    fool — that    is,    in    the   only   serious   sense   of 
the    word,    a   damned    fool.      I    pity    the    poor    neurotic    who    can    say,    "  Man 
that    is    born    of    a    woman    hath    but    a    short    time    to    live,    and    is    full    of 
misery,"   as    I    pity   a    maudlin    drunkard  ;    and    I    know   that   the   real   religion 
of  to-day   was    made    possible   only    by  the    materialist-physicists    and    atheist- 
critics    who     performed     for     us     the     indispensable    preliminary    operation    of 
purging   us   thoroughly   of   the   ignorant   and    vicious   superstitions  which  were 
thrust  down  our  throats  as  religion  in  our  helpless  childhood.     How  those  who 
assume  that  our  churches  are  the  private  property  of  their   sect  would  think 
of  this  profession  of  faith   of  mine   I   need  not  describe.     But  am   I,  therefore, 
to  be  denied  access  to  the  place  of  spiritual  recreation  which  is  my  inheritance 
as  much  as  theirs  ?     If,   for  example,    I    desire    to    follow  a    good   old   custom 
by  pledging  my  love  to   my   wife  in   the  church  of  our   parish,   why  should    I 
be  denied  due  record   in   the  registers  unless   she   submits  to  have  a   moment 
of  deep  feeling  made  ridiculous  by  the  reading  aloud  of  the  naive  impertinences 
of  St.  Peter,  who,  on  the  subject  of  Woman,  was  neither  Catholic  nor  Christian, 
but  a  boorish  Syrian  fisherman.     If  I  want  to  name  a  child  in  the  church,  the 
prescribed    service    may   be    more   touched   with    the    religious    spirit — once   or 
twice  beautifully  touched — but,  on  the  whole,  it  is  time  to  dismiss  our  prayer- 
book  as  quite   rotten  with   the   pessimism   of  the  age   which    produced    it.       In 
spite  of  the  stolen   jewels   with   which    it    is   studded,   an    age  of  strength   and 
faith  and  noble  activity  can  have  nothing  to  do  with   it :    Caliban  might  have 
constructed  such  a   ritual  out   of  his  own  terror  of  the  supernatural,  and  such 
fragments   of   the   words   of  the   saints   as    he    could    dimly    feel    some    sort    of 
glory  in. 

My  demand  will  now  be  understood  without  any  ceremonious" formulation 
of  it.       Xo    nation,   working    at   the    strain   we   face,    can    live    cleanly   without 

3—2 


28  THE   SAVOY 

public-houses  in  which  to  seek  refreshment  and  recreation.  To  supply  that 
vital  want  we  have  the  drinking-shop  with  its  narcotic,  stimulant  poisons,  the 
conventicle  with  its  brimstone-flavoured  hot  gospel,  and  the  church.  In  the 
church  alone  can  our  need  be  truly  met,  nor  even  there  save  when  we  leave 
outside  the  door  the  materialisations  that  help  us  to  believe  the  in- 
credible, and  the  intellectualisations  that  help  us  to  think  the  unthink- 
able, completing  the  refuse-heap  of  "isms"  and  creeds  with  our  vain  lust  for 
truth  and  happiness,  and  going  in  without  thought  or  belief  or  prayer  or  any 
other  vanity,  so  that  the  soul,  freed  from  all  that  crushing  lumber,  may  open 
all  its  avenues  of  life  to  the  holy  air  of  the  true  Catholic  Church. 

G.    Bernard    Shaw. 


TO    NANCY 


Weymouth,  zgth  September. 


T  T  happens  that  I  have  seen  much  of  you,  Nancy,  at  an  eventful 
*■  moment — eventful  for  yourself  I  mean,  in  your  life  and  your  career — 
and  here,  because  I  like  you,  and  like  to  think  of  and  reflect  on  you,  there 
is  written  down,  straight  and  full,  the  record  of  my  impression:  concealing 
nothing,  though  written  to  yourself :  a  letter  absolutely  frank,  looking  all 
facts  in  the  face ;  for,  young  though  you  are,  you  are  intelligent  enough 
to  bear  them.  My  letter  you  may  find  tedious,  perhaps,  but  at  all 
events  unusual  ;  for  letters,  even  when  detailed,  generally  omit  much,  hide 
some  part  of  a  thought — put  the  thing  in  a  way  that  pleases  the  writer, 
or  is  intended  to  please  the  receiver.  Here  am  I  at  the  end  of  my  first 
page,  Nancy,  and  all  preface  !  Well,  1  shall  recall,  to  begin  with,  how  it 
w.is   that   I   met  you. 

Acquit  me,  please,  of  any  general  love  of  your  over-praised  Music  Hall. 
Neither  it  nor  the  Theatre  counts  for  much  in  my  life.  I  like  you  personally: 
I  imagine  a  Future  for  you  ;  but  I  am  not  anxious  for  "  the  status  of  the 
profession."  Life,  it  is  just  possible,  has  other  goals  than  that  of  being 
received  in  smart  drawing-rooms — whatever  art  you  practice,  its  practice  is  your 
reward.  Society,  my  dear,  has  bestowed  of  late  upon  the  stage  "  lover "  an 
attention  that  is  misplaced.  We  are  getting  near  the  end  of  it  :  the  cabotin, 
in  a  frock  coat,  no  longer  dominates  the  situation  at  afternoon  teas.  Youths 
from  the  green-room  have,  in  the  Past,  over  the  luncheon-table,  imparted 
to  me,  with  patronage,  their  views  about  Painting;  to  me,  Nancy,  to  your  old 
friend,  who  has  painted  for  thirty  years — a  full  Academician  one  year  since,  with 
but  few  honours  (as  men  call  them)  left  to  gain  :  few  years,  alas !  in  which  to 
live  to  gain  them.  Child  as  you  are,  your  common  sense — that  neatly-balanced 
little    mind    of    yours,    so    unusually    clear — that    neatly-balanced    mind   assures 


32  THE   SAVOY 

you  that  it  is  not  the  profession  you  follow,  but  what  you  have  been  able  to 
do  in  it,  and  what  you  really  are,  that  gives  you — I  mean,  of  course,  gives 
any  one — legitimate  claim  to  be  in  privileged  places,  to  be  motioned  to 
the  velvet  of  the  social  sward.  "  Artist,"  indeed !  As  well  expect  to  be  received 
with  welcome  for  having  had  sufficient  capital  to  buy  a  camp  stool  and  a  few 
feet  of  German  moulding  with  which  to  frame  a  canvas  sent  to  the  Dudley 
Gallery,  as  to  be  suffered  to  dictate  and  to  dogmatise  in  virtue  of  a  well-worn 
coat  and  an  appearance  at  a  London  theatre  ! 

You  have  read  so  far,  and  yet  I  have  not  reminded  you  how  it  was 
that  you  and  I  came  to  know  each  other.  It  was  just  two  years  ago,  in 
this  same  town  from  which  I  write  to  you.  I  saw  a  photograph  that 
struck  me,  at  the  door  of  your  place  of  entertainment — at  the  door  of  the 
"  People's  Delight."  The  face  was  young — but  I  have  known  youth.  Pretty, 
it  was — but  a  fashionable  portrait-painter  lives  with  prettiness.  It  was  so 
monstrously  refined  ! 

At  three  o'clock,  they  said,  there  would  be  an  entertainment — Miss 
Nancy  Nanson  would  certainly  be  seen.  And  in  I  went,  with  a  companion — 
old  Sir  James  Purchas,  of  Came  Manor — my  host  more  than  once  in  these 
parts.  Sir  James,  you  know,  is  not  a  prey  to  the  exactions  of  conventionality, 
and  there  was  no  reason  why  the  humble  entertainment  your  lounge  and 
shelter  offered  to   the  tripper  should  not   afford  us  half  an  hour's   amusement. 

The  blazing  September  afternoon  you  recollect — September  with  the 
glare  of  the  dog  days.  The  "people,"  it  seemed,  were  not  profiting  that  day 
by  the  "  People's  Delight,"  for  the  place  was  all  but  empty — everyone  out  of 
doors — and  we  wandered,  not  aimlessly  indeed,  but  not  successfully,  among 
those  cavernous,  half-darkened  regions,  among  the  stalls  for  fruits  and  sweets 
and  cheap  jewelry,  in  search  of  a  show.  A  turn,  and  we  came  suddenly  on 
rows  of  empty  chairs  placed  in  front  of  a  small  stage,  with  drawn  curtain  ; 
and,  at  a  money-taker's  box  (for  reserved  seats,  as  I  supposed) — leaning  over 
the  money-taker's  counter,  in  talk  with  someone  who  came,  it  may  be,  from 
a  selling-stall — there  was  a  child,  a  little  girl.  Sir  James  touched  my  arm, 
directing  my  attention  to  her,  and  I   took  the  initiative — said  to  the  little  girl : 


TO   NANCY  33 

"  We  came  to  see  Miss  Nancy  Nanson.  You  can  tell  us,  perhaps,  when  is  the 
show  going  to  begin  ?  "  "  There  won't  be  any  entertainment  this  afternoon," 
the  girl  answered;  "because,  you  see,  there  isn't  any  audience.  I  am  Miss 
Nancy  Nanson."     The  dignity  of  the  child  ! 

The  fact  was,  you  remember,  that  photograph  at  the  entrance  gave  the 
impression  of  a  girl  of  seventeen ;  and  I  did  not  at  all  connect  it  with  the 
figure  of  the  well-spoken,  silver-voiced,  elegant  child,  who  proved  to  be  your- 
self— since  then  my  model  and  my  youthful  friend.  But  the  moment  you 
spoke,  and  when  my  eyes,  still  not  quite  used  to  the  obscurity,  took  in  your  real 
face  and  those  refined  expressions,  the  identity  was  established,  though  the 
photograph,  with  its  dexterous  concealment,  showed  more  the  Nancy  Nanson 
you  were  going  to  be,  than  the  Nancy  Nanson  you  were.  I  was  pleased, 
nevertheless  ;  and  we  talked  about  yourself  for  a  few  minutes ;  and  when  you 
said  (because  I  asked  you)  that  there  would  be  an  entertainment  next  day,  I 
told  you  we  would  come  to  see  it,  certainly.  And  Sir  James  was  indulgent. 
And  I  am  a  man  of  my  word. 

And  now  there  is  a  bit  we  can  afford  to  hurry  over  ;  for  the  next 
stage  of  our  acquaintance  does  not  advance,  appreciably,  the  action  of  your 
story.  We  came;  we  saw  your  entertainment:  your  three  turns:  singing, 
dancing  :  and  pretty  enough  it  was;  but  yet,  so-so.  You  were  such  a  pleasant 
child,  of  course  we  applauded  you — so  refined,  yet  singing,  tolerably,  such 
nonsense.  Even  then,  it  was  your  charming  little  personality,  you  know — it 
was  not  your  performance  that  had  in  it  attractiveness.  Next  day,  I  left  the 
neighbourhood. 

For  two  years  after  that,  I  never  saw  Miss  Nancy  Nanson,  "  vocalist  and 
dancer";  only  once  heard  of  and  read  of  you — only  once,  perhaps,  thought  of 
you.  The  once  was  last  Christmas — your  name  I  saw  was  advertised  in  a 
pantomime  played  by  "juveniles."  I  might,  it  is  just  possible,  have  gone  to  see  it. 
But  the  average  "juvenile!" — think! — and  then,  the  influenza  and  the  weather! 

Well !  this  present  glowing  September,  Nancy — glowing  and  golden  as 
it  was  two  years  ago- — brought  me  again,  and  very  differently,  into  touch 
with    you.      The    Past    is    over.      Now   I   fix   your  attention — for    you  are  still 


34  THE   SAVOY 

patient  with  me — I  fix  your  attention  on  the  Present,  and  I  point  out 
to  you,  in  detail — I  realise  to  myself — how  the  time  is  critical,  eventful ; 
how  you  stand,  Nancy,  upon  a  certain  brink.  I  am  not  going  to  prophecy 
what  you  may  be ;  but  I  tell  you  what  you  are.  The  real  You,  you  know  : 
something  better  and  deeper  than  that  which  those  seven  pastels,  any  or  all  of 
them  together,  show  you — my  delighted  notes  of  your  external  beauty ;  touched, 
I  think,  with  some  charm  of  grace  that  answers  well  to  your  own ;  and 
mimicking,  not  badly,  the  colours  and  contours  of  your  stage  presence. 
Nothing  more.  Chance  gleams — an  artist's  "  snap-shots "  at  Miss  Nancy 
Nanson,  vocalist  and  dancer,  at  sixteen.      (Sixteen  yesterday.)      But  you — No ! 

This  present  September — a  fortnight  since — I  came  again  to  Weymouth  ; 
this  time  alone  ;  putting  up  at  the  old  "  Gloucester  "  (it  was  George  the  Third's 
house)  from  which  I  write  to  you ;  and  not  at  Came  Manor  in  the  neighbour- 
hood. In  the  Weymouth  of  to-day  one  is  obliged,  in  nearly  every  walk,  to 
pass  the  "  People's  Delight " — your  cheap  vulgarity,  my  dear,  that  the  great 
Georgian  time  would  have  resented.  I  passed  it  soon,  and  the  two  names 
biggest  upon  the  bills  were,  "Achilles,  the  Strong  Man" — there  are  things  in 
which  even  a  decayed  watering  place  cannot  afford  to  be  behind  the 
fashion — "  Achilles,  the  Strong  Man,"  then,  and  "  Miss  Nancy  Nanson." 
Again  did  I  go  in ;  took  the  seat,  exactly,  that  I  had  taken  two  years  since, 
in  the  third  row-  of  chairs ;  and  while  a  band  of  three  made  casual,  lifeless, 
introductory  music,  I  waited  for  the  show. 

The  curtain  rose  presently  on  a  great,  living,  breathing,  over-energetic 
statue — a  late  Renaissance  bronze,  by  John  of  Bologna,  he  seemed — that 
muscular  piece  of  colour  and  firm  form,  that  nigger,  posed  effectively, 
and  of  prodigious  force.  "John  of  Bologna" — but  you  never  heard  of  him! 
Then  he  began  his  operations — Achilles,  the  Strong  Man  —  holding,  and 
only  by  his  teeth,  enormous  weights ;  and  rushing  round  with  one,  two, 
hundredweight,  as  if  it  were  a  feather ;  lifting,  with  that  jaw  of  his,  masses 
of  iron  ;  crashing  them  on  the  stage  again,  and  standing  afterwards  with 
quivering  muscles,  heaving  chest.  Applause — I  joined  in  it  myself  in 
common  courtesy — and  then  the  curtain  fell. 


TO   NANCY  35 

• 

A  wait.  The  band  struck  up  again — it  was  your  first  turn.  A  slim 
and  dainty  figure,  so  very  slight,  so  very  young,  in  a  lad's  evening  dress, 
advanced  with  swiftness  towards  the  footlights,  and  bowed  in  a  wide 
sweep  that  embraced  everyone.  Then  you  began  to  sing — and  not  too  well, 
you  know — a  song  of  pretty-enough  sentiment ;  the  song  of  a  stripling  whose 
sweetheart  was  his  mother.  His  mother,  she  sufficed  for  him.  It  suited 
your  young  years.  A  tender  touch  or  two,  and  with  a  boy's  manliness. 
Applause!      You  vanished. 

You  vanished  to  return.  In  a  girl's  dress  this  time,  with  movements 
now  more  swift  and  now  more  graceful.  Another  song,  and  this  time  dancing 
with  it.  It  was  dancing  you  were  born  for.  "She  has  grown  another  being — 
and  yet  with  the  old  pleasantness — in  these  two  years,"  I  thought.  "  A  child 
no  longer."  In  colour  and  agility  you  were  a  brilliant  show.  I  have  told  you 
since,  in  talking,  what  I  thought  of  you.  You  were  not  a  Sylvia  Grey,  my  dear ; 
still  less  that  other  Sylvia  Voltaire  praised,  contrasting  her  with  the  Camargo. 
The  Graces  danced  like  Sylvia,  Voltaire  said  —  like  the  Camargo,  the  wild 
nymphs.  No  !  you  were  not  Voltaire's  Sylvia,  any  more  than  you  were 
Sylvia  Grey.  Sylvia  Grey's  dance  is  perfect,  from  the  waist  upwards  —  as 
an  observant  actress  pointed  out  to  me,  with  whom  I  saw  it.  Swan-like  in 
the  holding  and  slow  movement  of  the  head  and  neck ;  exquisite  in  the 
undulations  of  the  torso.  Where  Sylvia  Grey  ends  —  I  mean  where  her 
remarkableness  ends  (for  she  has  legs  like  another,  I  take  it) — you,  my  dear, 
begin.  But  you  want  an  Ingres  to  do  you  justice.  The  slimness  of  the 
girl,  and  what  a  fineness,  as  of  race  ;  and  then,  the  agility  of  infinite  practice, 
and  sixteen  young  years  ! 

A  third  turn — then  it  was  that  you  were  agile  most  of  all.  The  flying 
feet  went  skyward.  Black  shoes  rushed,  comet-like,  so  far  above  your  head, 
and  clattered  on  the  floor  again  ;  whilst  against  the  sober  crimson  of  the 
background  curtain — a  dull,  thin  stuff,  stretched  straightly — gleamed  the  white 
of  moving  skirts,  and  blazed  the  boss  of  brightest  scarlet  that  nestled  some- 
where in  the  brown  gold  of  your  head.  Then,  flushed  and  panting,  it 
was  over. 


36  THE   SAVOY 

• 

Next  day,  in  a  gaunt  ante-room,  or  extra  chamber,  its  wooden  floor 
quite  bare,  and  the  place  furnished  only  with  a  couple  of  benches  and  a 
half-voiceless  semi-grand  piano — the  wreck  of  an  Erard  that  was  great  once 
— in  that  big,  bare  room,  Nancy,  where  my  pastels  since  have  caught 
your  pose  in  lilac,  rose  and  orange,  but  never  your  grave  character,  I  came 
upon,  and  closely  noted,  and,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  talked  to,  a  sedate 
young  girl  in  black — a  lady  who,  in  all  her  bearing,  ways,  gesture,  silver 
voice,  was  as  refined  as  any,  young  or  old,  that  I  have  been  in  contact 
with  in  my  long  life — and  I  have  lived  abundantly  amongst  great  ladies,  from 
stately,  restful  Quakeress  to  the  descendant  of  the  "  hundred  Earls.''  No  one 
is  more  refined  than  you.  This  thing  may  not  last  with  you.  Whether  it 
lasts  depends,  in  great  measure,  upon  the  life  you  lead,  in  the  strange  world 
opening  to  you.  Your  little  craft,  Nancy,  your  slender  skiff,  will  have  some 
day  to  labour  over  voluminous  seas. 

You  remember  what  you  told  me,  in  the  great  ante-room,  standing 
by  the  wreck  of  the  Erard,  that  your  fingers  touched.  All  your  life 
to  that  time.  You  were  frankness  absolutely ;  standing  there  in  your 
dull,  black  frock  that  became  you  to  perfection ;  standing  with  hat  of 
broad,  black  straw — the  clear-cut  nose,  the  faultless  mouth,  the  bright-brown 
hair  curled  short  about  your  head,  and  the  limpid  look  of  your  serene  eyes, 
steadily  grey.  It  was  interesting,  and  amusing  too,  your  story.  I  told  you, 
you  remember,  how  much  you  had  got  on,  how  changed  you  were,  what 
progress  I  had  noticed.  And  you  said  a  pretty  "  Thank  you."  It  was  clear 
that  you  meant  it.  We  were  friends.  I  asked  who  taught  you — so  far 
as  anything  can  be  taught  in  this  world,  where,  at  bottom,  one's  way  is, 
after  all,  one's  own.  You  said,  your  mother.  And  I  told  you  I'd  seen  your 
name  in  some  London  Christmas  play-bill.  "  I  had  a  big  success,"  you  said. 
What  a  theatrical  moment  it  was ! — the  one  occasion  in  all  my  little  dealings 
with  you  in  which  I  found  the  traditions  of  "the  profession"  stronger  with  you 
than  your  own  personal  character.  Now,  your  own  personal  instinct  is  to  be 
modest  and  natural ;  the  traditions  of  "  the  profession  "  are  to  boast.  You  did 
boast,    Nancy  !       You    had   a   big    success,    had   you  ?       Perhaps,    for   yourself; 


TO   NANCY  37 

I  do  not  say  you  failed.  But  the  piece — my  dear,  you  know  it  was  a  frost. 
Did  it  run  three  weeks  ?  Come  now  !  And  someone,  out  of  jealousy,  paid 
four  guineas — she  or  her  friends  did — to  get  you  a  had  notice  somewhere 
in  back-stairs  journalism.  And  they  got  it,  and  then  repented  of  it.  You 
were  friends  with  them  afterwards.  But  what  a  world,  Nancy  ! — a  world 
iii  which,  for  four  guineas,  a  scoundrel  contributes  his  part  towards  damning 
your   career  ! 

You  remember,  before  I  asked  if  I  might  make  some  sketches  of  you, 
you  were  turning  over  a  song  that  had  been  sent  you  by  "  a  gentleman  at 
Birmingham."  He  had  had  it  "ruled"  for  you,  and  wanted  you  to  buy  it 
for  three  pounds.  It  was  "  rather  a  silly  song,"  you  thought.  I  settled 
myself  quietly  to  master  the  sense,  or,  as  was  more  probable,  the  nonsense,  of 
it.  My  dear,  it  was  blank  rubbish  !  But  you  were  not  going  to  have  it, 
you  said.  "  Mamma  would  never  buy  a  song  I  didn't  like  and  take  to." 
That  was  well,  I  thought.  And  then  you  slowly  closed  the  ruined  Erard,  and 
were  going  away.  But  on  the  road  down-stairs,  remember,  I  persuaded  you  to 
ask  your  mother  that  you  might  give  me  sittings.  I  told  you  who  I  was.  And 
in  the  gaunt  ante-room,  lit  well  from  above,  I  had  a  sitting  next  day.  It 
was  the  first  of  several.  And  your  mother  trusted  me,  and  trusted  you,  as 
you  deserve  to  be  trusted.  And  we  worked  hard  together,  didn't  we? — you 
posing,   and    I   drawing.      And   there  are  seven   pastels  which   record — taut  bicn 

•'.,  my  dear — the  delightful  outside  of  you,  the  side  the  public  might  itself 
see,  if  it  had  eyes  to  really  see — the  flash  of  you  in  the  dance,  snow-white  or 
carmine;  and  I  got  all  that  with  alacrity—"  swift  means"  I  took,  to  "radiant 
ends" — the  poise  of  the  slim  figure,  the  white  frock  slashed  with  gold,  the 
lifted  foot,  and  that  gleam  of  vivid  scarlet  in  your  hair  against  the  background 
of  most  sober  crimson. 

This  tranquil  Sunday  I  devote  to  writing  to  you,  is  the  day  after 
your  last  appearance  at  the  "  People's  Delight."  You  and  your  mother, 
very  soon,  you  tell  me,  leave  Weymouth  and  your  old  associations — it  is  your 
home,  you  know — and  you  leave  it  for  ever.  The  country,  you  admit,  is 
beautiful,  but  you  are  tired  of  the  place.       I    don't   much   wonder.      And    you 


38  THE   SAVOY 

leave  it — the  great  bay,  the  noble  chalk  downs,  the  peace  of  Dorset  and 
its  gleaming  quiet — you  leave  it  for  lodgings  in  the  Waterloo  Road.  For 
you  must  be  among  the  agents  for  the  Halls.  Though  you  have  been 
upon  the  Stage  since  you  were  very  little,  you  have  but  lately,  so  you 
say,  put  your  heart  into  it.  Well !  it  is  not  unnatural.  But  no  more 
Sunday  drives  into  the  lovely  country,  recollect,  with  your  brother,  who  is 
twenty-one  and  has  his  trade ;  and  your  uncle,  who  is  in  a  good  way  of 
business  here,  you  said — your  uncle,  the  plumber. 

And  so,  last  night  being  your  last  night,  Nancy,  it  was  almost  like 
a  Benefit.  As  for  your  dancing,  you  meant,  I  knew,  to  give  us  the  cup 
filled  —  yes,  filled  and  running  over.  I  had  noticed  that,  on  some  earlier 
evening,  when  Little  Lily  Somebody — a  dumpling  child,  light  of  foot,  but  with 
not  one  "  line  "  in  all  her  meaningless,  fat  form — when  Little  Lily  Somebody 
had  capered  her  infantile  foolishness,  to  the  satisfaction  of  those  who  rejoice 
in  mere  babyhood,  someone  presented  her  with  a  bouquet.  And  you 
danced,  excellently,  just  after  her  —  you,  height  and  grace,  slimness  and 
soul — and  someone,  with  much  effusion,  handed  you  up  a  box  of  chocolates. 
And  you  smiled  pleasantly.  I  saw  there  was  a  little  conflict  in  your  mind, 
however,  between  the  gracious  recognition  of  what  was  well-enough  meant,  and 
the  resentment — well,  the  resentment  we  can  hardly  call  it  :  the  regret,  at  all 
events — at  being  treated  so  very  visibly  as  a  child — and  yesterday  you  were  to 
be  sixteen  !  So  I  myself — who,  if  this  small  indignity  had  not  been  offered 
you,  might  conceivably  have  given  you,  in  private,  at  all  events,  a  basket 
of  fine  fruit— I  meant  to  offer  you  flowers.  It  might  have  been  fruit,  I  say, 
if  smuggled  into  the  ante-room  where  I  had  done  my  pastels ;  for  I  had  seen 
you  once  there,  crunching,  quite  happily,  imperfect  apples  between  perfect 
teeth  —  your  perfect  teeth,  almost  the  only  perfect  things,  Xancy,  in  an 
imperfect   world. 

But  it  had  to  be  flowers.  So  I  sent  round  to  the  dressing-room,  just 
as  you  were  getting  ready,  two  button -holes  merely — wired  button -holes — 
of  striped  carnations,  red  or  wine-coloured.  They  were  not  worn  in  your 
first    turn.       They    were    not    worn    in    your    second.       In    your   third   turn,    I 


/<>    X.l.XCV 


39 


espied  tliem  at  your  neck's  side,  in  the  fury  of  your  dance.  Already  there  are 
people,  I  suppose,  who  would  have  thought  those  striped  carnations  happy — 
tossed,  tossed  to  pieces,  in  the  warmth  of  your  throat. 

Your  second  turn,  last  night,  you  know,  was  in  flowing  white,  slashed 
with  gold  —  old-gold  velvet  —  with  pale  stockings.  The  third  —  when  the 
Bowers  died  happy  in  your  riot  —  in  pure  white  alone,  with  stockings 
black.  You  remember  the  foot  held  in  your  hand,  as  you  swing  round  upon 
the  other  toe— and  one  uplifted  leg  seen  horizontal,  in  its  straight  and  modelled 
slimness. 

My  dear — what  were  my  little  flowers?  Who  could  have  known  — 
when  you  had  finished — the  great  things  still  to  come  ?  When  the  applause 
seemed  over,  and  the  enthusiasm  of  some  lieutenant  from  Dorchester  was, 
as  I  take  it,  abated  and  suppressed — when  the  applause  was  over,  a  certain 
elocutionist  (Mr.  Paris  Brown,  wasn't  it?)  brought  you  again  upon  the  stage, 
and  saying  it  was  your  last  appearance,  made  you  some  presentation : 
a  brooch  from  himself,  "of  no  intrinsic  value"  he  informed  us — I  willingly 
believed  him — a  bracelet  from  I  don't  know  who — that  had  an  "intrinsic 
value,"  I  surmise — and  a  bouquet,  exquisite.  It  was  "  From  an  admirer," 
Mr.  Paris  Brown,  the  elocutionist,  read  out,  from  an  accompanying  card. 
Then  he  congratulated  you  upon  your  Past  ;  prophesied  as  to  your  Future  ;  and, 
in  regard  to  the  presents  to  you,  he  said,  in  words  that  were  quite  happily 
chosen — because,  Nancy,  they  were  reticent  while  they  were  expressive — 
"  She  is  but  a — girl ;  and  she  has  done  her  duty  by  the  management.  Long 
may  she  be  a  credit  to  her  father  and  mother!"  Your  mother  I  was  well 
aware  of — your  mother  I  respect ;  and  you,  you  love  her.  But  your  father 
— he  was  invented,  I  think,  for  the  occasion,  as  an  additional  protection, 
should  the  designs  upon  you  of  the  admirer  from  Dorchester  prove  to  be  not 
altogether  such  as  they  ought  to  be.  The  precaution  was  unnecessary ;  it 
was  taking  Time  by  the  forelock.  Our  young  friend  looked  ingenuous, 
and  smitten  grievously — you  seem  so  big  upon  the  stage,  Nancy — so  grown 
up.  I  mean.  I  could,  I  think,  have  toned  down  his  emotions,  had  I  told 
him    you   were  a   bare  sixteen. 


4° 


THE   SAVOY 


Nancy,  there  is — for  me — a  certain  pathos  in  this  passage  of  yours 
from  childhood  into  ripening  girlhood ;  a  book  closed,  as  it  were ;  a  phase 
completed;  an  ending  of  the  way.  "  What  chapter  is  to  open  ?  Nancy  Nanson 
— what  phase  or  facet  of  her  life,"  I  ask  myself,  "  is  now  so  soon  to  be 
presented  ?  What  other  way,  what  unfamiliar  one,  is  to  follow  her  blameless 
and  dutiful  childhood  ?  "  I  had  a  restless  night,  Nancy.  Thinking  of  this, 
one  saw — ridiculously  perhaps  —  a  presage  in  the  first  bouquet,  a  threat  in 
the  first  bracelet — in  the  admirer's  card.  Would  she  be  like  the  rest  ? 
— at  least,  too  many.     Besmirched,    too  ? 

Remember,  Nancy,  I  am  no  Puritan  at  all.  I  recognise  Humanity's 
instincts.  There  is  little  I  do  not  tolerate.  I  recognise  the  gulf  that 
separates  the  accidentally  impolitic  from  the  essentially  wrong.  But  we 
owe  things  to  other  people — to  the  World's  laws.  We  have  responsi- 
bilities. Noblesse  oblige  ;  and  all  superiority  is  Noblesse.  "  She  must  not  be  like 
the  rest,"  I  said,  last  night,  in  broken  dreams ;  "  dining,  winking,  leering  even, 
since  sold  at  last  and  made  common."  In  broken  dreams,  last  night — or  in 
wakeful  hours — your  feet  tossed  higher ;  your  gay  blood  passed  into  the  place 
— electrical,  overpowering.  You  can  be  so  grave  and  sweet,  you  know  ;  and 
you  can  be  so  mad. 

Have  you  ever  lain  awake,  in  the  great,  long  darkness,  and  watched  in 
the  darkness  a  procession — the  people  of  your  Past  and  all  your  Future  ? 
But  you  have  no  Past.  For  myself,  I  have  watched  them.  My  mother,  who 
is  long  gone ;  those  who  were  good  to  me,  and  whom  I  slighted ;  the  relations 
who  failed  me ;  the  friend  I  lost.  And  the  uncertain  figures  of  the  Future ! 
But  the  line  of  the  Future  is  short  enough  for  me — for  you,  it  is  all 
yours.  Last  night,  it  seemed  to  me,  the  dark  was  peopled  with  your 
enemies ;  with  your  false  friends,  who  were  coming — always  coming — the 
unavoidable  crowd  of  the  egotistic  destroyers  of  youth.  Their  dark  hearts, 
I  thought,  look  upon  her  as  a  prey:  some  of  them  cruel,  some  of  them 
cynical,  yet  some  of  them  only  careless.  And  I  wished  that  last  night 
had  not  come — your  sixteenth  birthday — with  the  applause  and  gifts  and 
menacing   triumph. 


TO   NANCY  41 

There  are  women,  perhaps,  men  cannot  wrong  —  since  they  have 
wronged  themselves  too  much.  "This  is  a  good  girl,"  I  said;  and  my 
over-anxious  mind — in  real  affection  for  her — cries  out  to  all  the  horrid 
forces   of    the   world :    "  Leave    Nancy  !  " 

Vini  y,  when  you  read  this,  you  smile— and  naturally— at  your  most 
sombre  friend.  You  think,  of  course,  with  all  the  reckless  trust,  courageous 
confidence,   of  girlhood,  "So   superfluous!       So    unnecessary!" 

Go    the   straight    way  !      .      .      .     Whatever    way    you    go,    1    shall   always 

be    your    friend. 

Frederick    Wedmore. 


MANDOLINE 

the  "Fetes  Galantes  "  of  Paul   Verlaine). 

THE   singers   of   serenades 
Whisper   their   faded   vows 
Unto   fair   listening   maids 

Under   the    singing  boughs. 

Tircis,    Aminte,    are    there, 
Clitandre   is   over-long, 
And    Damis   for   many   a   fair 

Tyrant    makes   many   a    song. 

Their   short   vests,    silken    and    bright, 
Their   long,    pale,    silken    trains, 

Their   elegance    of  delight, 

Twine   soft,    blue,    shadowy    chains. 

And    the   mandolines   and    they, 

Faintlier   breathing,    swoon 
Into   the   rose   and   grey 

Ecstasy    of  the    moon. 

Arthur    Svmons. 


A    GOOD    PRINCE 

I  FIRST  saw  him  one  morning  of  last  summer,  in  the  Green  Park. 
Though  short,  even  insignificant,  in  stature  and  with  an  obvious 
tendency  to  be  obese,  he  had  that  unruffled,  Olympian  air,  which  is  so 
sure  a  sign  of  the  Blood  Royal.  In  a  suit  of  white  linen  he  looked 
serenely  cool,  despite  the  heat.  Perhaps  I  should  have  thought  him,  had 
I  not  been  versed  in  the  Almanack  de  Gotha,  a  trifle  older  than  he  is. 
He  did  not  raise  his  hat  in  answer  to  my  salute,  but  smiled  most 
graciously  and  made  as  though  he  would  extend  his  hand  to  me,  mistaking 
me,  I  doubt  not,  for  one  of  his  friends.  A  member  of  his  suite,  however, 
said  something  to  him  in  an  undertone,  whereat  he  smiled  again  and  took 
no   further   notice    of   me. 

I  do  not  wonder  the  people  idolise  him.  His  almost  blameless  life  has 
been  passed  among  them,  nothing  in  it  hidden  from  their  knowledge.  When 
they  look  upon  his  dear  presentment  in  the  photographer's  window — the 
shrewd,  kindly  eyes  under  the  high  forehead,  the  sparse  locks  so  carefully 
distributed — words  of  loyalty  only  and  of  admiration  rise  to  their  lips. 
For  of  all  princes  in  modern  days  he  seems  to  fulfil,  most  perfectly,  the 
obligation  of  princely  rank.  N^ios  he  might  have  been  called  in  the  heroic 
age,  when  princes  were  judged  according  to  their  mastery  of  the  sword  or 
of  the  bow,  or  have  seemed,  to  those  mediaeval  eyes  that  loved  to  see  a 
scholar's  pate  under  the  crown,  an  ignoramus.  We  are  less  exigent  now. 
We  do  but  ask  of  our  princes  that  they  should  live  among  us,  be  often 
manifest  to  our  eyes,  set  a  perpetual  example  of  a  right  life.  We  bid 
them  be  the  ornaments  of  our  State.  Too  often  they  do  not  attain  to 
our  ideal.  They  give,  it  may  be,  a  half-hearted  devotion  to  soldiering,  or 
pursue  pleasure  merely — tales  of  their  frivolity  raising  now  and  again  the 
anger  of  a    public  swift   to    envy  them    their    temptations.       But   against    this 

4 


46  THE   SAVOY 

admirable  Prince  no  such  charges  can  be  made.  Never  (as  yet,  at  least)  has 
he  cared  to  "play  at  soldiers."  By  no  means  has  he  shocked  the  Puritans. 
Though  it  is  no  secret  that  he  prefers  the  society  of  ladies,  not  one  breath  of 
scandal  has  ever  touched  his  name.  Of  how  many  English  princes  could 
this  be  said,  in  days  when  Figaro,  quill  in  hand,  inclines  his  ear  to  every 
key-hole  ? 

Upon  the  one  action  that  were  well  obliterated  from  his  record 
I  need  not  long  insist.  The  wife  of  an  aged  ex-Premier  came  to  have  an 
audience  and  pay  her  respects.  Hardly  had  she  spoken,  when  His  Royal 
Highness,  in  a  fit  of  unreasoning  displeasure,  struck  her  a  violent  blow 
with  his  clenched  fist.  The  incident  is  deplorable,  but  belongs,  after  all, 
to  an  earlier  period  of  his  life  ;  and,  were  it  not  that  no  appreciation 
must  rest  upon  the  suppression  of  any  scandal,  I  should  not  have  referred 
to  it.  For  the  rest,  I  find  no  stain,  soever  faint,  upon  his  life.  The 
simplicity  of  his  tastes  is  the  more  admirable  for  that  he  is  known  to 
care  not  at  all  for  what  may  be  reported  in  the  newspapers.  He  has 
never  touched  a  card,  never  entered  a  play-house.  In  no  stud  of  racers 
has  he  indulged,  preferring  to  the  finest  blood  -  horse  ever  bred  a  certain 
white  and  woolly  lamb  with  a  blue  riband  at  its  neck.  This  he  is  never 
tired  of  fondling.  It  is  with  him,  like  the  roebuck  of  Henri  Ouatre, 
wherever    he    goes. 

Suave  and  simple  his  life  is  !  Narrow  in  range,  it  may  be,  but 
with  every  royal  appurtenance  of  delight  !  Round  the  flower-garden  at 
Sandringham  runs  an  old  wall  of  red  brick,  streaked  with  ivy  and  topped 
infrequently  with  balls  of  stone.  By  the  iron  gates,  that  open  to  a  vista  of 
flowers,  stand  two  kind  policemen,  guarding  the  Prince's  procedure  along  that 
bright  vista.  As  his  perambulator  rolls  out  of  the  gate  of  St.  James's  Palace, 
he  stretches  out  his  tiny  hands  to  the  scarlet  sentinels.  An  obsequious  retinue 
follows  him  over  the  lawns  of  the  White  Lodge,  cooing  and  laughing,  blowing 
kisses  and  praising  him.  Yet  his  life  has  not  been  all  happy.  The  afflictions 
that  befall  royal  personages  always  touch  very  poignantly  the  heart  of  the 
people    and    it    is    not    too    much    to    say    that    all    England    watched    by    the 


A    GOOD    PRINCE  47 

cradle-side  of  Prince  Edward  in  those  hours  of  pain,  when  first  the  little 
battlements  rose  about  the  rose-red  roof  of  his  mouth.  Irreiterate  be  the 
horror  of  that  epoch! 

As  yet,  when  we  know  not  even  what  his  first  words  will  be,  it  is 
too  early  to  predict  what  verdict  posterity  will  pass  upon  him.  Already  he 
has  won  the  hearts  of  the  people;  but,  in  the  years  which,  it  is  to  be  hoped, 
still  await  him,  he  may  accomplish  more.  Attentions!  He  stands  alone 
among    European    princes — but,   as   yet,   only   with   the  aid   of  a   chair. 

Max   BEERBOHM. 


REGEXT     STREET,     LOXDOX 
By   JOSEPH    PENNELL 


IJ 


-i    i  i  - 


THE    EYES   OF   PRIDE 

To  A.  F. 

"  Pluck  out  the  eyes  of  pride;    thy  lips  to  mine  ' 
Never,  though   1  die  thirsting!     Go  thy  ways!" 

i    Meredith 

1 

11  |    v  O  as  you  please — it's  all  one  to  me  :    yet   I  think  you  will   live   to   regret 

lie  spoke  sullenly,  with  well-affected  indifference,  standing  on  the  hearth- 
rug, his  hands  in  his  pockets,  looking  down  at  her  ;  and  yet  there  was  a  note 
of  irresolution,  of  potential  suffering  in  his  voice,  which  was  absent  from  her 
reply  : 

"  If  I   do,   I   will  tell  you." 

"  That  is  just  what  you  will  never  do." 

"  Perhaps  not."  She  was  actually  indifferent,  or  her  dissimulation  was 
more  profound  than  his,  for  the  blank  coldness  of  her  speech  lit  a  spark  of 
irritation  in  him. 

"  And,  all  the  same,  I  think  you  will  regret  it — every  day  of  your 
life.     .     .     .     By  God  !    you  are  making  a  great  mistake,  Rosalind  !  " 

"  Is  it  all  coming  over  again  ?  "  murmured  the  girl,  wearily.  "  And, 
after  all,  it's  your  own  choice." 

He  flushed  angrily.  He  was  in  evening  dress,  and  he  fidgeted  with  his 
tie  for  a  moment,  before  he  held  out  his  hand  with  stiff  courtesy. 

"Good-bye,"  he  said;  and  "Good-bye,  Mr.  Seefang !  "  the  girl  answered, 
listlessly.  He  dropped  her  impassive  hand,  and  went  slowly  towards  the  door. 
Then  he  remembered  he  had  brought  his  hat  with  him  into  the  drawing-room, 
and  he  came  back  again,  and  placed  it  mechanically  under  his  arm.  "  \\  ell, 
good-bye,  Rosalind  !  "  he  said  again.  This  time  she  made  no  response,  and  he 
was  really  gone  when  she  raised  her  eyes  again.     .     .     . 


52  THE   SAVOY 

When  he  opened  the  hall  door,  emerged  into  the  square,  he  paused  to 
light  a  cigar  before  he  plunged  into  the  fog,  rank  and  yellow  and  raw,  which 
engulfed  him.  A  clock  struck  eleven.  li  was  actual ly  so  late;  and  he  began 
to  look  round,  vaguely,  for  a  hansom,  re:  ting  tl  t  their  rapid  talk — certainly, 
it  had  been  fruitful  in  momentous  consequences — had  lasted  for  over  an  hour. 
He  decided  that  all  the  cabs  would  have  disappeared  ;  the  square  railings,  ten 
yards  in  front  of  him.  were  invisible;  he  shrugged  his  shoulders — a  gesture 
habitue!    with    him,    in  ",   lassitude   and   a   certain   relief    were 

mingled — and,  doggedly  and  resolutely,  he  set  his  face  eastwards,  to  accom- 
plish on  foe:   his   return   journey  to  the  Temple.     ...    As  he  went,  his  mind 

coasting  hi;  specially  the  last  six  months  of  it,  during 

which  he  had  been  engaged  to  Rosalind  Lingard.       Well !    that  was  over  at 
_nd   he   was   unable   to   add   that   it    had   been    pleasant    while   it    lasted. 
Pleas.  ik      but  it  had  been  an  intoxicating  experience — a  delirious 

torture.  Now  he  was  a  free  man,  and  he  tried  to  congratulate  himself, 
reminding  himself  of  all  the  phrase  implied.  Yes ;  he  was  free  again — free 
to  his  old  pleasures  and  his  old  haunts,  to  his  friends  and  his  former  wan- 
dering life,  if  he  chose;  above  all,  free  to  his  art — his  better  passion.  .  .  . 
And.  suddenly,  into  his  meditation  there  floated  the  face  of  the  girl  on  the 
sofa,  impassively  beautiful  and  sullen,  as  it  had  been  framed  to  his  vision 
when  he  last  held  her  hand,  and  he  ground  his  teeth  and  cursed  aloud. 

He  began  to  remember  how,  all  along,  he  had  forecasted  this  end  of  his 
wooing.  What  an  ill-omened  affair  it  had  been  from  the  first  !  He  was  yet 
uncertain  whether  he  loved  or  hated  her  most.  That  he  had  loved  her  at  all 
was  the  rniracle.  But,  even  now,  he  knew  that  he  had  loved  her,  with  a  love 
that  was  not  child's-play — it  had  come  for  that — but,  like  his  genius, 

E  was  a  great  deal  of  Seefang  :   e\  en  the  critics  of  his  pictures  admitted 

-vthjjig  ah<-;i  -   him  was  on  a  large  scale.      So  that  when  he  had  fallen 

in  love  with  Rosalind   Lingard,   a:;er  three  da\-s'  acquaintance,  he  had  done  so 

supremely,   carried   awav    by    i    strange    hurricane   of    sensual    fascination    and 

spirir^a:   rapture.       Meeting    her    first    a:    ;.    sparsely-attended  b    in   a 


THE   EYES   OF   PRIDE  53 

primitive  Breton  village  where  he  was  painting,  he  had  promptly  disliked  her, 
thought  her  capricious  and  ill-tempered.  Grudgingly,  he  had  admitted  that 
she  was  beautiful,  but  it  was  a  beauty  which  repelled  him  in  a  girl  of  his 
own  class,  although  he  would  have  liked  it  well  enough  in  women  of  less  title 
to  respect,  with  whom  he  was  far  too  well  acquainted. 

If  he  had  ever  thought  of  marriage — and  it  must  have  been  remotely — 
during  his  fifteen  years  of  manhood,  spent  so  pleasantly  in  the  practice  of  an  art 
in  which  his  proficiency  had  met  recognition  and  in  the  frank  and  unashamed 
satisfaction  of  his  vigorous  appetites,  he  had  dreamed  of  a  girl  most  unlike 
Rosalind  Lingard  ;  a  girl  with  the  ambered  paleness  and  the  vaguely  virginal 
air  of  an  early  Tuscan  painting,  who  would  cure  him  of  his  grossness  and 
reform  him.  For  he  had,  still,  intervals  of  depression — generally  when  he  had 
spoiled  a  canvas — in  which  he  accused  himself  of  living  like  a  beast,  and 
hankered,  sentimentally,  for  the  love  of  a  good  woman.  And  yet,  Rosalind 
Lingard,  with  her  ambiguous  charm,  her  adorable  imperfection,  had  been  this 
woman — the  first  to  dominate  him  by  something  more  than  the  mere  rose  and 
white  of  her  flesh.  Masterful  as  he  had  been  with  the  others,  he  was  her 
slave,  if  it  was  still  his  masterfulness  which  bound  her  to  him,  for  a  pliant 
man  would  have  repelled  her,  and  she  had  dreamed  of  being  loved  tyrannically. 
A  few  days  had  sufficed,  A  juxtaposition  somewhat  out  of  the  common — a 
slight  illness  of  her  aunt,  Mrs.  Sartorys,  with  whom  she  was  travelling — 
having  thrown  them  together,  a  discovery  which  he  made  suddenly,  that  if 
she  was  capricious  she  could  yet  be  charming,  and  that  her  audacity  was 
really  the  perfection  of  her  innocence — these  were  the  material  agents  of  his 
subjection.  To  the  lovers,  as  they  became  speedily,  inevitable  fate  and  the 
god  who  watches  over  little  lovers  were  held  alone  responsible.  The  best  of 
Seefang's  character,  in  which  the  fine  and  the  gross  were  so  strangely  mingled, 
leapt  to  meet  the  promise  in  her  eyes.    Their  vows  were  exchanged. 

He  crossed  Piccadilly  Circus,  debating  wrhether  he  should  go  home  at  once 
or  turn  into  his  club  and  have  an  hour's  poker  ;  finally,  he  decided  to  make 
for  the  Temple \nd  he  told  himself  again  that  it  was  over.  In  retro- 
spect, their  love  seemed  like  a  long  quarrel,  with  a  few  intervals  of  reconciliation. 


54  THE   SAVOY 

But  there  had  been  a  time,  at  the  very  beginning,  when  life  was  like  Eden  ; 
when  he  was  so  buoyant  that  he  felt  as  if  his  head  must  touch  the  sky.  He 
left  his  easel  and  wandered  with  them  through  Morbihan  :  his  knowledge  of 
the  country,  so  sad  and  cold  and  poor,  and  yet  so  pictorial,  made  him  their 
cicerone  to  nooks  which  elude  the  ordinary  tourist.  Actually,  they  were  not 
betrothed,  but  they  anticipated  the  official  sanction  ;  and,  indeed,  no  opposition 
was  expected  even  by  Mrs.  Sartorys  ;  though,  formally,  Rosalinds  guardian, 
-a  learned  lawyer — an  abstract  idea,  even,  to  his  ward — was  to  be  consulted. 
Seefang  had  his  fame,  his  kinship  with  the  peerage,  to  set  off  against  the  girl's 
fortune,  which  was  considerable.  Had  he  been  less  eligible,  Mrs.  Sartorys, 
a  weak,  placid  woman,  professionally  an  invalid,  would  have  been  equally  sub- 
missive. As  it  was,  she  allowed  them  the  license  of  an  engagement,  stipulating 
merely  for  a  postponement  which  was  nominal.  They  rambled  alone  together 
over  the  ruddy  moorland  as  it  pleased  them.     Once  he  said  to  her  : 

"  If  your  guardian  damns  me,  will  you  make  a  curtsy  and  dismiss  me, 
Rosalind  ?  " 

The)'  had  come  to  a  pause  in  their  walk  ;  the  sun  was  merciless,  and 
they  had  wandered  off  the  road  to  seek  shade  ;  the  girl  had  seated  herself  on 
a  bank  under  a  silver-birch  tree,  Seefang  was  standing  over  her.  She  shook 
her  head. 

"  No  !  if  I've  ever  wanted  anything  since  I  was  a  child,  I've  cried  and 
stormed  till  I   got  it." 

"  You  give  yourself  a  fine  character."' 

"  I'm  not  a  nice  girl,  I've  told  you  so  before.'' 

"Nice!"  he  looked  at  her  gravely.     "I  don't  care  about  niceness." 

"  What  do  you  care  for  ? 

"You  as  you  are,"  he  said  deliberately:  "proud,  capricious,  not  very 
sweet  of  temper,  and — I  suspect " 

Her  eyes  challenged  him,  he  completed  his  phrase:   "A  bit  of  a  flirt!" 

"And  yet  you  " 

"And  yet  I  love  you;    good  God!  what  am  I  myself?'' 

She  glanced  at  him  with  a  sort  of  mocking  tenderness. 


THE    E\  ES   OF   PRIDE  55 

'•  You  are  very  proud," she  said;  "capricious,  I  don't  know  ;  but  stubborn 
and  headstrong;  I  think  you  can  be  very  cruel,  and  I  am  sure  you  have 
been  very  wicked." 

"And  yet?-  -"  be  imitated  her  phrase  softly.  They  were  quite  alone 
with  the  trees  and  the  birds,  and  instinctively  their  lips  met.  Presently  she 
resumed,  a  trifle  sadly,  her  eyes  contemplating  vaguely  the  distant  valley. 

'•  I'm  only  a  girl — not  twenty.  You  are  thirty-eight,  thirty-eight  !  You 
must   have  kissed  so  many,   many   women   before  me." 

He  touched  her  hand  very  softly,  held  it  while  he  went  on  :  "  Never 
mind  the  past,  Rosalind.  I've  lived  as  other  men.  If  I've  been  stupid,  it 
was  because  I  had  never  known  you.  When  a  man  has  been  in  heaven  he 
is  in  no  hurry  to  get  back  anywhere  else.  I'm  yours,  and  you  know  it — 
body  and  soul — and  they  are  a  poor  bargain,  my  child  !  ever  since  —  since 
Ploutnariel."  She  flushed  and  her  head  drooped  towards  him  ;  at  Ploumariel 
they  had  crossed  the  great  climacteric.  YVhen  she  looked  up,  the  sun,  moving 
westwards,  lit  up  the  valley  opposite  them,  illuminated  the  white  stones  of  a 
village  cemetery.     Her  eyes  rested  upon  it.     Presently  she  said  : 

"  Oh,  my  dear,  let  us  be  kind  to  each  other,  bear  and  forbear  .... 
That's  the  end  of  it  all." 

For  a   moment   he  was  silent  :   then   he  leant   over  and   kissed  her  hair. 

"  Rosalind,  my  darling,  I  wish  we  were  dead  together,  you  and  I,  lying 
there  quietly,  out  of  the  worry  of  things." 

It  was  a  fantastic  utterance,  an  odd  and  ominous  mood  to  interrupt 
their  foolish  talk  of  plighted  lovers ;  it  never  recurred.  But  just  now  it  came 
back  to  him  like  an  intuition.  It  is  so  much  easier  to  die  for  the  woman  you 
love  than  to  live  with  her.  They  could  talk  of  bearing  and  forbearing,  but 
much  tolerance  was  in  the  nature  of  neither.  They  were  capable  of 
generosity,  but  even  to  themselves  they  could  not  be  just.  Both  had  known 
speedily  how  it  must  end.  He  was  impatient,  tyrannical ;  she,  capricious 
and  utterly  a  woman  ;  their  pride  was  a  great  Juggernaut,  beneath  whose  car 
they  threw,  one  by  one,  their  dearest  hopes,  their  happiness  and  all  that 
they  cared   most   for   in   life.       Was    she  a   coquette  ?       At   least   she  cared   for 


56  THE   SAVOY 

admiration,  encouraged  it,  declined  to  live  her  life  as  he  would  have  it.  His 
conviction  that  small  sacrifices  which  he  asked  of  her  she  refused,  not  from 
any  abiding  joy  the  possession  gave  her,  but  in  sheer  perverseness,  setting 
her  will  against  his  own,  heightened  his  estimation  of  the  offence.  That  his 
anger  was  out  of  all  proportion  to  her  wrongdoing  he  knew,  and  his  know- 
ledge merely  inflamed  his  passionate  resentment.  She,  on  her  side,  was 
exacting,  jealous  of  his  past  life ;  he  was  faithfully  her  lover,  and  he  felt 
aggrieved,  perhaps  unjustly,  that  woman-like  she  took  constancy  too  much 
for  granted,  was  not  more  grateful  that  he  did  not  lapse.  And  neither  could 
make  concessions  :  they  hardened  their  hearts,  were  cold  of  eye  and  tongue 
when  a  seasonable  softening  would  have  flung  them  each  in  the  other's  arms. 
When  they  were  most  divided,  each  was  secretly  aware  that  life  without  the 
other  would  be  but  a  savourless  dish.  For  all  that,  they  had  ended  it.  She 
had  flung  him  back  his  liberty,  and  he  had  accepted  it  with  a  bitter  word 
of  thanks.  They  had  said,  if  they  had  not  done,  irrevocable  things  .... 
Seefang  let  himself  into  his  chambers  and  slammed  the  oak  behind 
him ;  the  room  smelt  of  fog,  the  fire  had  gone  out,  and,  just  then,  the  lack 
of  it  seemed  the  most  intolerable  thing  in  life.  But  he  sat  down,  still  in  his 
ulster,  lighting  the  candle  to  dispel  the  gloom,  and  faced  his  freedom  more 
deliberately  than  he  had  done  before.  He  began  to  think  of  his  work,  and 
he  was  surprised  at  discovering  how  utterly  he  had  neglected  it  during  the 
last  six  months.  There  is  nothing  so  disorganising  as  a  great  passion,  nothing 
so  enervating  as  a  virtuous  one.  He  went  to  bed,  vowing  that  he  would 
make  amends.  His  art !  that  he  should  ever  have  forgotten  it !  None  of  the 
other  women  had  interfered  with  that,  the  women  who  had  amused  him, 
satisfied  the  animal  in  him,  but  whom  he  had  not  loved.  She  alone  had 
made  him  forget  it.  He  had  a  sense  of  ingratitude  towards  his  art,  as  to  a 
person  who  has  always  stood  by  one,  whom  at  times  one  has  not  valued, 
and  whom  one  finds,  after  some  calamity,  steadfast  and  unchanged.  His  art 
should  stand  him  in  good  stead  now  ;  it  should  help  him  to  endure  his  life,  to 
forget  her  and  be  strong.  Strength  !  that  was  the  great  thing  ;  and  he  knew 
that    it    appertained    to    him.      He   fell    asleep   murmuring   that  he  was  glad  he 


THE   EYES  OF  PRIDE  57 

was  strong  ....  strong  ....  Two  months  later  Seefang  went  abroad  ; 
he  had  made  arrangements  for  a  prolonged  absence.  He  had  not  seen  Miss 
Lingard  ;  if  an  acquaintance,  who  was  ignorant  of  the  rupture,  asked  after 
her,  he  looked  vacant,  seemed  to  search  his  memory  to  give  the  name  a 
connotation.  Then  he  remarked  indifferently  that  he  believed  Mrs.  Sartorys 
was  out  of  town.  fie  was  working  hard,  contemplated  work  more  arduous 
still.  Every  now  and  then  he  drew  himself  up  and  reminded  himself  that 
he  had  forgotten  her. 

For  two  years  he  was  hardly  heard  of :  he  was  believed  to  be  travelling 
in  Spain,  living  in  some  secluded  village.  Then  he  was  in  London  for  a 
month :  he  exhibited,  and  critics  were  unanimous  in  their  opinion  that  he  had 
never  done  better  work — at  which  he  smiled.  They  declared  he  had  not  been 
in  vain  to  the  land  of  Velasquez  and  Goya.  It  was  at  this  time  that  he 
heard  of  Miss  Lingard's  marriage  with  Lord  Dagenham  ;  that  nobleman  had 
carried  away  his  bride  to  an  obscure  Scandinavian  capital,  where  he  was 
diplomatically  engaged.  Seefang  was  curious  enough  to  turn  over  the  pages 
of  Debrett,  and  discovered  that  the  bridegroom  was  sixty  ;  it  enabled  him  to 
credit  the  current  rumour  that  he  was  dull.  He  went  on  smiling  and  was 
abroad  for  another  three  years. 

II 

He  had  known  they  would  meet  when  he  first  heard  that  the  Dagenhams 
were  in  town.  Lord  Dagenham  had  abandoned  diplomacy  with  stays  and  any 
semblance  of  being  young  ;  he  was  partly  paralysed,  and  was  constantly  to  be 
seen  in  a  bath-chair  in  Kensington  Gardens.  But  the  lady  went  everywhere, 
and  Seefang  made  much  the  same  round ;  their  encounter  was  merely  a 
question  of  time.  He  faced  it  with  equanimity,  or  its  tolerable  imitation  :  he 
neither  feared  it  nor  hoped  for  it.  And  the  season  was  but  a  few  weeks  old 
when  it  came  about.     At  the  dinner-table  he  faced  her  almost  directly. 

Five  years !  Her  beauty  was  richer,  perhaps ;  it  had  acquired  sombre 
tones  like  an  old  picture ;  but  she  was  not  perceptibly  altered,  hardly  older. 
She  was  straight  and  tall,  had  retained  something  of   her  slim,  girlish  figure ; 


58  THE   SAVOY 

and,  as  of  old,  her  beauty  had  a  sullen  stain  on  it ;  in  the  languid  depths  of 
her  dark  eyes  their  fate  was  written  ;  her  full  mouth  in  repose  was  scornful. 
He  finished  his  soup,  talked  to  his  neighbour,  mingled  in  the  conversation ; 
one  of  his  remarks  sent  a  little  ripple  of  well-bred  laughter  down  the  table, 
and  he  noticed  that  she  joined  in  it.  But  her  eyes  avoided  him,  as  they  had 
done  when  she  bowed  to  him  formally  in  the  drawing-room.  They  had  not 
spoken.  A  vague  feeling  of  irritation  invaded  him.  Was  there  another  woman 
in  the  world  with  hair  like  that,  so  dark  and  multitudinous  ?  He  had  promised 
himself  to  forget  her,  and  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  promise  had  been  kept. 
Life  had  been  amusing,  full  of  experience,  lavish  and  expansive.  If  one 
supreme  delight  were  impossible,  that  had  not  seemed  to  him  a  reason  for 
denying  himself  any  lesser  joys  which  offered — -joys,  distractions.  How 
successful  he  had  been !  And  the  tide  of  his  irritation  rose  higher.  His 
mind  went  back  to  the  days  when  he  had  first  known  her.  She  had  forgotten 
them,  no  doubt,  but  they  were  good  while  they  lasted — yes,  they  were  good. 
But  what  a  life  they  would  have  led! — how  thankful  he  should  have  been 
for  his  escape  !  From  time  to  time  he  fidgeted  nervously  with  his  tie.  Like 
a  great  wave   of   anguish  his  old  desire  swept  over  him. 

To  Lady  Dagenham,  if  she  had  not  seemed  to  notice  him,  his  presence 
there,  facing  her,  was  the  one  fact  which  possessed  her  mind  during  that 
interminable  dinner-party.  She  had  to  perfection  the  gift  of  being  rude 
urbanely,  and  she  had  begun  by  repressing  any  intentions  of  her  neighbour 
on  the  right  to  be  conversational.  Her  neighbour  on  the  left  talked  for 
three  ;  she  preserved  appearances  by  throwing  him  smiles,  and  at  mechanical 
intervals  an  icy  monosyllable.  "  Yes,"  and  "  Yes,"  said  her  lips,  and  her 
eyes,  which  looked  everywhere  else  —  above,  below,  beside  him  —  saw  only 
Seefang.  .  .  .  He  was  changed ;  older,  coarser,  bigger,  she  thought.  Large 
he  had  always  been ;  but  to-night  he  loomed  stupendous.  Every  now  and 
then  his  deep  voice  was  borne  across  to  her — that  remained  the  same,  his 
voice  was  always  pleasant.  And  she  missed  no  detail — his  hair  was  thinner, 
it  was  streaked,  like  his  moustache,  with  gray  ;  his  eyes  were  clouded,  a 
trifle  blood-shot ;    his  laugh  was  cynical   and   easy.      She  noticed  the  one  ring 


THE   EYES   OF    PRIDE  5g 

he  wore,  a  curious,  absinthe-coloured  opal,  when  he  moved  his  left  hand,  large, 
but  well-shaped  and  white.  She  remembered  the  ring  and  his  affection  for 
opals.  Had  that  been  the  secret  of  his  luck — their  luck?  He  was  imi 
noticeably  pitiable,  but  instinctively  she  fell  to  pitying  him,  and  her  com- 
passion included  herself.  Skeleton  fingers  groped  out  of  the  past  and 
throttled  her.  At  a  familiar  gesture,  when  his  hand  went  up  to  his  tie,  a 
rush  of  memories  made  her  giddy.  Was  the  past  never  done  with  ?  And 
why  wish  things  undone  or  altered?  He  was  a  cross,  brutal  fellow;  stupid 
and  self-indulgent.  Why  had  they  ever  met  ?  They  were  too  much  alike 
And  she  was  sorry  for  him.  sorry  if  he  still  cared,  and  sorrier  if,  as  was  more 
likely,  he  had  forgotten ;  for  she  was  aware  that  the  strength  which  puts 
away  suffering  is  more  costly  than  acquiescence  in  unhappiness.  A  sudden 
tenderness  came  over  her  for  him  ;  it  was  not  with  the  man  she  was  angry, 
but  with  fate,  the  powers  which  had  made  them  what  they  were,  self- 
tormentors,  the  instruments  of  their  own  evil.  As  she  rose  from  the  table 
with  the  other  women,  she  dropped  one  glance  at  him  from  her  sombre,  black 
eyes.      And  they  met  his  in   a  flash  which  was  electric. 

When  he  came  upstairs,  rather  tardily,  it  was  with  a  certain  relief  that 
he  failed  to  discover  in  either  of  the  two  large  rooms,  which  opened  into  one 
another,  the  face  which  he  sought.  In  the  first  of  them,  a  young  Hungarian 
musician  of  note  was  just  taking  his  seat  at  the  piano.  The  air  was  heavy 
with  the  smell  of  flowers,  full  of  soft  vibrations — the  frou-frou  of  silken  skirts, 
the  rustle  of  posturing  fans.  He  moved  into  the  second  room.  It  was  a 
parched,  hot  night,  and  the  windows  had  been  left  open  ;  the  thin  lace 
curtains  protecting  them  were  stirred  imperceptibly.  With  a  strange,  nervous 
dread  on  him  that  was  also  an  intuition,  he  pushed  them  aside  and  stepped 
on  to  the  spacious  balcony.  Half-a-dozen  people  were  sitting  or  standing 
there,  and  he  distinguished  her  profile,  marble  white  and  strangely  cold,  in  the 
subdued  shine  of  the  electric  lights.  An  elderly -looking  young  man  with  a 
blonde  moustache  was  talking  with  her.  He  took  his  station  by  them,  joined 
mechanically  in  the  conversation,  looking  not  at  her,  but  at  the  long,  low 
line    of   the    park    in    front   of   them   with    its   background   of    mysterious  trees. 


60  THE   SAVOY 

Presently  a  crash  of  chords  came  from  within  —  the  Hungarian  had  begun 
his  performance.  People  began  to  drift  inside  again ;  Lady  Dagenham  and 
the  blonde  young  man  —  a  little  anxious,  for  he  was  due  in  the  House, 
concerned  for  a  division — were  the  last  loiterers.  For  the  second  time  their 
eyes  met,  and  there  was  a  note  of  appeal  in  them. 

"  Please  don't  let  me  keep  you,  Mr.  Rose  .  .  .  Mr.  Seefang  .  .  .  We 
are  old  friends,  and  I  haven't  seen  him  for  years  .  .  .  Mr.  Seefang  will  look 
after  me." 

When  they  were  alone  together  he  came  over  to  her  side,  and  they  stood 
so  for  a  moment  or  two  in  silence :  he  was  so  close  to  her  that  he  could 
smell  the  misty  fragrance  of  her  hair,  hear  the  sighing  of  her  bosom.  The 
tense  silence  preyed  on  them ;  to  break  it  at  any  cost,  he  said,  at  last  : 
"  Rosalind !  "  Her  white  face  was  turned  towards  him,  and  he  read  the 
passion  in  it  as  in  a  book.  And,  "  Rosalind  !  "  he  said  again,  with  a  new 
accent,  more  strenuously. 

"So  you  have  come  back" — her  rich  voice  was  under  control,  but  there 
was  a  vibration  in  it  which  spoke  of  effort — "come  back  to  England?  Your 
fame  preceded  you  long  ago.  I  have  often  heard  of  you,  and  wondered  if  we 
should  ever  meet." 

"  Did  you  ever  wish  it  ?  " 

"  It  is  always  pleasant  to  meet  old  friends,"  she  answered,  mechanically. 
"  Pleasant  !  "      He  laughed  harshly.      "  There  is  no  pleasure  in  it,  Lady 
Dagenham."     She  glanced  at  him  uneasily,  for,  unconsciously,  he  had  raised  his 
voice.     "  And  friends,  are  we  friends — how  can  we  be  friends,  you  and  I  ?  " 
"  At   least — not   enemies,"  she  murmured. 

He  was  silent  for  a  moment,  looking  out  at  the  blurred  mass  of  the 
park,  but  seeing  only  her  face,  the  face  of  her  youth,  softened  and  idealised, 
so  that  five  years  seemed  as  yesterday,  and  the  anger  and  bitterness,  which 
had  driven   them   apart,   chimeras. 

"At  Ploumariel,  up  the  hill  to  Sainte-Barbe  "  ;  he  spoke  softly,  as 
it  were  to  himself,  and  the  natural  harshness  of  his  voice  was  modulated. 
"  Do    you    remember   the   wood,   the    smell    of    pines   and   wild   thyme  ?       The 


THE   EYES   OE   PRIDE  61 

pine-needles  crackled  under  your  little  feet.  1  low  warm  il  was  !  You  were 
tired  at  the  end  of  the  climb  ;  you  sat  on  a  boulder  to  rest,  while  I  fetched 
you  milk  from  the  cottage  by  the  chapel  —  fresh  milk  in  a  big,  yellow  bowl, 
too  big  for  your  little  fingers  to  cling  to.  You  laughed  ;  and  I  held  it  to 
your  mouth,  and  you  made  me  drink  too,  and  I  drank  where  the  print  of 
your  lips   had   been,  and   your   lips  were   sweet   and   fresh  " 

"Seefang!"  she  laid  a  white  finger  on  his  mouth,  beseechingly,  and 
he  trembled  ;  then  let  her  hand  rest  on  his  with  something  of  a  caress. 
"What  is  the  use,  Seefang? — what  is  the  use?  Do  you  think  I  have 
forgotten  ?  .  .  .  That  was  over  and  done  with  years  and  years  ago.  It  is 
no  use  maddening  ourselves.  We  have  so  little,  little  time.  Even  now, 
someone  may  interrupt  us  at  any  moment  ;  we  may  not  meet  again — tell  me 
about  yourself,  your  life,  all  these  years.  I  know  you  are  a  great  artist ; 
have  you   been   happy  ? " 

"  I  have  made  a  name,"  he  said,  shortly,  "  in  more  than  one  sense.  If 
I  were  to  speak,  my  voice  might  lie  to  you.  Look  me  in  the  face — that  will 
answer  you." 

Almost  childishly  she  obeyed  him,  scrutinised  the  dark,  strong  face, 
harsh  and  proud,  with  engrained  lines  of  bitterness  and  ill-temper  set  upon 
it  even  in  repose. 

"  You   have  answered  me,"   she   said,   with  a   little  moan. 

"  I  have  always  longed  for  you,  Rosalind,  even  when  it  seemed  I  had 
forgotten  you  most    .     .    .    And  you  ?" 

She  cut  him  short  quickly. 

"  I   have  not  been  over  happy,"  she  said. 

"Then  your  husband  ?" 

"My  husband  has  been  kind  to  me.  I  have  done  —  tried  to  do  my 
duty  to  him." 

A  fresh  silence  intervened,  nervous  and  uneasy :  each  feared  to  dissipate 
it,  for  each  was  instinctively  conscious  of  what  gulfs  of  passion  lay  beneath 
it,  irretrievable  chasms  into  which  one  unstudied  phrase,  one  word  at  random, 
might  hurl  them  both.     She  was  the  first  to  make  the  venture. 

5 


62  THE   SAVOY 

"  Can  we  not  be  friends,  you  and  I  ?  "  And,  innocently  as 
she  had  spoken,  the  words  had  not  fallen  before  she  was  conscious  of  her 
error ;  and  his  arms  were  round  her,  crushing  the  frail  lace  of  her  bodice, 
and  their  lips  had  joined,  and  the  thrill  in  her  blood  had  belied  her 
protest. 

"  Oh,  why  did  we  do  it,  what  was  the  good  of  it,  why  did  we  ever 
meet  ?  "  she  moaned,  when  the  passionate  moment  had  passed,  and  they  were 
left  face  to  face  together,  stupefied,  yet  with  the  mask  of  convention  upon 
them  once  more,  if  set  a  little  awry. 

"  Because, because "  he  faltered.     "  Oh,  my  darling,  how  can  we 

ever  be  friends  ?  Oh,  my  love,  my  one  love,  anything  but  that  !  .  .  .  There 
is  only  one  end  of  it — or  two — one  of  two,  and  you  know  that,  Rosalind  !  My 
clever,  cross  darling,  you  were  always  clever — always  understood.  That  is 
why  I  liked  you.'" 

She  stood  free  of  him  again ;  her  hands  deftly,  nervously  restored  one  of 
her  black,  ruffled  tresses. 

"How  little  you  liked  me,  after  all!  "  she  said  at  last. 

And  she  saw,  with  a  keen  delight  in  her  power  to  hurt  him,  with  more 
pain  at  the  hurt  she  did  herself,  the  harsh  and  sneering  lines  round  his 
mouth  and  nostrils  darken  into  prominence,  the  latent  brute  in  his  face 
accentuate. 

"  There  was  little  enough  to  like  in  you,  was  there,  Rosalind  ?  But,  by 
God  !  I  did — I  loved  you,  yes,  I  love  you  .  .  .  Look  at  the  park,  Rosalind ! 
It's  a  mist,  and  dark ;  you  can  guess  at  the  trees,  believe  in  the  grass ; 
perhaps  it's  soft — and  new  there, — it's  vague  and  strange  .  .  .  would  you 
plunge  into  it  now  with  me,  darling — into  the  darkness  ?  How  this  music 
and  people  tire  me  since  I've  seen  you  .  .  .  would  you  ?  Cool  and  vague 
and  strange  !  .  .  .  No,  you  wouldn't — nor  would  I,  even  if  it  were  possible. 
You  need  not  answer.  It  would  not  do.  There,  or  here,  we  should  hurt 
each  other  as  we  always  have — and  shall,  this  side  of  the  grave.  That 
is  why  I  said  there  was  only  one  end  of  it,  or  two,  and  this  is  the  one 
you  choose."' 


THE   EYES   OF   I'RIDE  63 

Once  more,  she  laid  her  hand  on  his,  and  went  on,  her  fingers  caressing, 
absently,  the  opal  of  his  ring. 

"  Don't  be  angry,  Seefang,  we  have  so  little  time — if  it  must  be  so. 
Life  is  so  short.  Besides,  we've  changed,  grown  older  ;  we  might  be  kinder 
to  each  other  now.     What  are  you  going  to  do?" 

"  I  shall  live  as  I  have  done — go  abroad,  perhaps,  a  little  sooner — 
what  else  ?  " 

"  Oh,  why  ?  "  she  cried  instinctively.      "What  is  the  good?" 

"  Would  you  have  me  come  and  see  you  ?  When  are  you  at  home  ? 
What  is  your  day  ?  "  he  asked,  with  an  inflection,  the  irony  of  which 
escaped    her. 

"  If  you  are  reasonable,  why  not  ?  "  she  queried. 

He  took  up  her  hand  and  kissed  it  very  gently,  and,  as  it  might  have 
been  a  child's,  retained   it   in  his  own. 

"Because  I  am  not  that  kind  of  man,"  he  said;  "because  I  know 
myself,  and  the  world,  and  the  world's  view  of  me ;  because  of  my  other 
name,  out  of  paint;  because  " 

She  pulled  herself  away,  petulantly :  withdrew  from  him  with  a  sullen 
gesture. 

"  How  little  you  must  respect  me  !  You  need  not  have  told  me  that 
your  reputation  is  infamous  :    I  have  heard  of  it  :    is  it  true,  then  ?  " 

"  It  is  true  that   I   love  you.      As  for  what  they  say "  he  broke   off 

with  a  little  suppressed  laugh.  "  You  see  we  are  beginning  to  quarrel,  we 
are  generating  a  misunderstanding — and,  as  you  said,  there  is  so  little  time. 
The  music  is  quite  over,  and  we   may   be  invaded  any  moment." 

"  And   I  begin  to  feel  chill,"  she  said. 

He  helped  to  arrange  her  cloak  around  her,  lifted  aside  the  curtain  to 
allow  her  passage. 

"  So    this    is    the    end  ?  "    she    said,    lightly ;    and    her   subtile    voice    had 

grown    expressionless. 

"Yes,"  he  replied,  dully;  "this  is  the  very  end." 

Ernest  Dowson. 


THE    THREE    MUSICIANS 


A' 


LONG    the    path    that    skirts   the   wood, 
The    three    musicians    wend    their    way, 
Pleased    with    their   thoughts,  each   other's    mood, 
Franz    Himmel's    latest    roundelay, 
The  morning's  work,  a  new-found  theme,  their  breakfast  and  the  summer  day. 

One's   a    soprano,    lightly    frocked 

In    cool,    white    muslin    that    just    shows 

Her   brown    silk    stockings   gaily   clocked, 

Plump    arms    and    elbows    tipped    with    rose, 
And    frills   of    petticoats   and    things,  and    outlines   as    the    warm    wind    Mow-.. 

Beside    her    a    slim,    gracious   boy 

Hastens   to   mend    her   tresses'    fall, 
And    dies   her    favour  to   enjoy, 

And    dies    for    reclame    and    recall 
At     Paris    and    St.    Petersburg,  Vienna    and    St.    James's    Hall. 

The    third's   a    Polish    Pianist 

With   big   engagements    everywhere, 
A    light    heart    and    an    iron    wrist, 

And    shocks   and    shoals   of  yellow    hair, 
And    fingers    that    can    trill    on    sixths    and    till    beginners    with    despair. 

The    three    musicians   stroll    along 

And    pluck    the    ears    of  ripened    corn, 

Break   into   odds   and    ends    of    song, 

And    mock    the    woods   with    Siegfried's    horn, 
Ami    till    the    air    with    Gluck,   and    till    the    tweeded    tourist's   soul    with    scorn. 

The    Polish    genius    lags    behind, 

And,  with    some   poppies   in    his    hand, 
Picks    out    the    strings   and    wood   and    wind 
Of   an    imaginary    band, 
Enchanted    that    for   once    his    men    obey    his    beat    and    understand. 


,/;, 


THE   SAVOY 


The    charming  cantatrice    reclines 

And    rests   a   moment   where    she   sees 
Her    chateau's   roof  that    hotly   shines 
Amid   the   dusky   summer   trees, 
And  fans  herself,  half  shuts  her  eyes,  and  smoothes  the  frock  about  her  knees. 

The    gracious    boy   is    at    her   feet, 

And    weighs    his    courage    with    his   chance ; 
His    fears    soon    melt   in    noonday   heat. 
The   tourist   gives   a   furious   glance, 
Red  as  his  guide-book  grows,  moves   on,  and  offers   up  a  prayer  for   France. 

Aubrey    Beardslev. 


ZOLA:    THE    MAN    AND    HIS    WORK 

ZOLA'S  name  —  a  barbarous,  explosive  name,  like  an  anarchist's  bomb — 
has  been  tossed  about  amid  hoots  and  yells  for  a  quarter  of  a  century. 
In  every  civilised  country  we  have  heard  of  the  man  who  has  dragged 
literature  into  the  gutter,  who  has  gone  down  to  pick  up  the  filth  of  the 
streets,  and  has  put  it  into  books  for  the  filthy  to  read.  And  in  every 
civilised  country  his  books  have  been  read  by  the  hundred  thousand,  what- 
ever judgment  must  be  passed  on  the  millions  who  have  drunk  of  this  moral 
sewage.  But  popularity  failed  to  silence  the  hooting  ;  in  England,  the 
classic  land  of  self-righteousness,  the  decree  went  forth  that  this  thing  must 
be  put  an  end  to,  and  amid  general  acclamation  the  English  publisher  of 
such  garbage  was  clapped  into  gaol.  There  was  only  a  slight  pause  in  the 
outcry,  more  a  pause  of  stupefaction  than  of  reconciliation,  when  it  was 
known  that  many  respected  novelists  in  Europe  and  America  looked  up 
humbly  to  this  scavenger  as  to  a  master ;  or  again,  when  a  metaphysician 
stood  up  in  the  Concord  School  of  Philosophy  and  boldly  classed  him  with 
Jesus  and  the  great  masters  of  moral  irony  ;  or  once  more,  when  the  garbage- 
monger  himself  was  welcomed  as  an  honoured  guest  in  the  city  which  had 
imprisoned  his  publisher  and  prohibited  his  books,  and  when  it  was  known 
that  he  was  standing,  with  some  hope,  at  the  sacred  portals  of  the  French 
Academy. 

To-day,  Zola's  great  life-work  is  completed.  At  the  same  time,  the 
uproar  that  it  aroused  has,  to  a  large  extent,  fallen  silent.  Not  that  there 
is  any  general  agreement  as  to  the  rank  of  the  author  of  the  Rougon- 
Macquart  series  ;  but  the  storms  that  greeted  it  have  worn  themselves  out, 
and  it  is  recognised  that  there  are  at  least  two  sides  to  this  as  to  other 
questions.  Such  a  time  is  favourable  to  the  calm  discussion  of  Zola's 
precise   position. 


68    •  THE   SAVOY 

The  fundamental  assertion  of  those  who,  in  their  irreconcilable  oppo- 
sition to  Zola,  have  rightly  felt  that  abuse  is  not  argument,  has  always  been 
that  Zola  is  no  artist.  The  matter  has  usually  presented  itself  to  them  as  a 
question  of  Idealism  versus  Realism.  Idealism,  as  used  by  the  literary  critic, 
seems  to  mean  a  careful  selection  of  the  facts  of  life  for  artistic  treatment, 
certain  facts  being  suited  for  treatment  in  the  novel,  certain  other  facts 
being  not  so  suited  ;  while  the  realist,  from  the  literary  critic's  point  of 
view,  is  one  who  flings  all  facts  indiscriminately  into  his  pages.  I  think- 
that  is  a  fair  statement  of  the  matter,  for  the  literary  critic  does  not  define 
very  clearly  ;  still  less  does  he  ask  himself  how  far  the  idealism  he  advocates 
is  merely  traditional,  nor,  usually,  to  what  extent  the  manner  of  presentation 
should  influence  us.  He  does  not  ask  himself  these  questions,  nor  need  we 
ask  him,  for  in  the  case  of  Zola  (or,  indeed,  of  any  other  so-called  "realist'*) 
there  is  no  such  distinction.  There  is  no  absolute  realism,  merely  various 
kinds  of  idealism  :  the  only  absolute  realism  would  be  a  phonographic  record, 
illustrated  photographically,  after  the  manner  of  Edison's  kinetoscope. 
Zola  is  just  as  much  an  idealist  as  George  Sand.  It  is  true  that  he 
selects  very  largely  from  material  things,  and  that  he  selects  very  profusely. 
But  the  selection  remains,  and  where  there  is  deliberate  selection  there  must 
be  art.  We  need  not  trouble  ourselves  here  —  and  I  doubt  whether  we  are 
ever  called  upon  to  trouble  ourselves — about  "Realism"  and  "Idealism."  The 
questions  are  :  Has  the  artist  selected  his  materials  rightly  ?  Has  he 
selected   them   with   due   restraint  ? 

The  first  question  is  a  large  one,  and,  in  Zola's  case  at  all  events, 
it  cannot,  I  think,  be  answered  on  purely  aesthetic  grounds ;  the  second 
may  be  answered  without  difficulty.  Zola  has  himself  answered  it ;  he 
admits  that  he  has  been  carried  away  by  his  enthusiasm,  and  perhaps,  also, 
by  his  extraordinary  memory  for  recently -acquired  facts  (a  memory  like  a 
sponge,  as  he  has  put  it,  quickly  swollen  and  quickly  emptied) ;  he  has 
sown  details  across  his  page  with  too  profuse  a  hand.  It  is  the  same 
kind  of  error  as  Whitman  made,  impelled  by  the  same  kind  of  enthusiasm. 
Zola    expends    immense    trouble    to    get     his    facts ;     he     has    told    how     he 


ZOLA  .-     I  III     MAX    AND   HIS   WORK 

ransacked  the  theologians  to  obtain  body  and  colour  for  "La  Faute  de  I'Abbg 
Mouret,"  perhaps  the  best  of  his  earlier  books.  But  he  certainly  spent 
no  more  preliminary  labour  on  it  than  Flaubert  spent  on  "  Madame  Bovary," 
very  far  less  than  Flaubert  spent  on  the  study  of  Carthage  for  "  Sal  a  mm  bo." 
liut  the  results  are  different;  the  one  artist  gets  his  effects  by  profusion 
and  multiplicity  of  touches,  the  other  by  the  deliberate  self-restraint  with 
which  he  selects  and  emphasises  solely  the  salient  and  significant  touches. 
The  latter  method  seems  to  strike  more  swiftly  and  deeply  the  ends  of 
art.  Three  strokes  with  the  brush  of  Frans  Hals  are  worth  a  thousand 
of  Denner's.  Rich  and  minute  detail*  may  impress  us,  but  it  irritates  and 
wearies  in  the  end.  II  a  man  takes  his  two  children  on  to  his  knees, 
it  matters  little  whether  he  places  Lenore  on  his  right  knee  and  Henri 
on  his  left,  or  the  other  way  about  :  the  man  himself  ma)'  fail  to  know 
or  to  realise,  and  the  more  intense  his  feelings  the  less  likely  is  he  to 
know.  When  we  are  living  deeply,  the  facts  of  our  external  life  do  not 
present  themselves  to  us  in  elaborate  detail  :  a  very  few  points  are  focal 
in  consciousness  (to  use  Professor  Lloyd  Morgan's  terminology),  while  the 
rest  are  marginal  in  subconsciousness.  A  few  things  stand  out  vividly  at 
each  moment  of  life;  the  rest  are  dim.  The  supreme  artist  is  shown  by 
the  insight  and  boldness  with  which  he  seizes  and  illuminates  these  bright 
points  at  each  stage,  leaving  the  marginal  elements  in  due  subordination. 
Dramatists  so  unlike  as  Ford  ami  Ibsen,  novelists  so  unlike  as  Flaubert  and 
Tolstoi,  yet  alike  impress  us  by  the  simple  vividness  of  their  artistic  effects. 
The  methods  adopted  by  Zola  render  such  effects  extremely  difficult  of 
attainment.  Perhaps  the  best  proof  of  Zola's  remarkable  art  is  the  skill  with 
which  he  has  neutralised  the  evil  effects  of  his  ponderous  method.  In  using 
the  dramatic  form,  as  in  '•Therese  Raquin,"  the  method,  obviously,  will  not 
work,  and  Zola  makes  no  attempt  to  get  it  to  work,  but  is  content  to  adopt 
fairly  simple  means  to  reach  effects  which,  in  their  way,  are  certainly  tremendous 
enough.  But  in  his  most  characteristic  novels,  as  "  L'Assommoir,"  "  Nana," 
"  Germinal,"  his  efforts  to  attain  salient  perspective  in  the  mass  of  trivial  or 
technical  details — to  build  a   single  elaborate  effect  out  of  manifold  details — are 


70  THE   SAVOY 

often  admirably  conducted.  Take,  for  instance,  the  Yoreux,  the  coal-pit 
which  may  almost  be  said  to  be  the  hero  of  "  Germinal "  rather  than  any 
of  the  persons  in  the  book.  The  details  are  not  interesting,  but  they  are 
carefully  worked  up,  and  the  Voreux  is  finally  symbolised  as  a  stupendous 
idol,  sated  with  human  blood,  crouching  in  its  mysterious  sanctuary.  When- 
ever Zola  wishes  to  bring  the  Voreux  before  us,  this  formula  is  repeated.  And 
it  is  the  same,  in  a  slighter  degree,  with  the  other  material  personalities  of  the 
book.  Sometimes,  in  the  case  of  a  crowd,  this  formula  is  simply  a  cry.  It 
is  so  with  the  Parisian  mob  who  yell  "  A  Berlin  !  "  in  the  highly-wrought  con- 
clusion to  "Nana";  it  is  so  with  the- crowd  of  strikers  in  "Germinal"  who 
shout  for  bread.  It  is  more  than  the  tricky  repetition  of  a  word  or  a  gesture, 
overdone  by  Dickens  and  others  ;  it  is  the  artful  manipulation  of  a  carefully- 
elaborated,  significant  phrase.  Zola  seems  to  have  been  the  first  who  has, 
deliberately  and  systematically,  introduced  this  sort  of  leit-motiv  into  literature 
as  a  method  of  summarising  a  complex  mass  of  details,  and  bringing  the 
impression  of  them  before  the  reader.  In  this  way  he  contrives  to  minimise 
the  defects  of  his  method,  and  to  render  his  complex  detail  focal.  He  some- 
times attains  poignantly  simple  effects  by  the  mere  repetition  of  a  leit-motiv 
at  the  right  moment.  And  he  is  able  at  times,  also,  to  throw  aside  his  detailed 
method  altogether,  and  to  reach  effects  of  tragic  intensity.  The  mutilation  of 
Maigrat's  corpse  is  a  scene  which  can  scarcely  have  been  described  in  a 
novel  before.  Given  the  subject,  Zola"s  treatment  of  it  has  the  strength, 
brevity,  and  certainty  of  touch  which  only  belong  to  great  masters  of  art. 
That  Zola  is  a  great  master  of  his  art,  "  L'Assommoir  "  and  "Germinal" — 
which,  so  far  as  I  have  read  Zola,  seem  his  two  finest  works — are  enough  to 
prove.  Such  works  are  related  to  the  ordinary  novel  much  as  Wagner's  music- 
dramas  are  related  to  the  ordinary  Italian  opera.  Wagner  reaches  a  loftier  height 
of  art  than  Zola  ;  he  had  a  more  complete  grasp  of  all  the  elements  he  took  in 
hand  to  unite.  Zola  has  not  seen  with  sufficient  clearness  the  point  of  view 
of  science,  and  its  capacity  for  harmonising  with  fiction  :  nor  has  he,  with 
perfect  sureness  of  vision,  always  realised  the  ends  of  art.  He  has  left  far  too 
much    of   the    scaffolding    standing   amid    his  huge  literary  structures  ;    there  is 


ZOLA  :     THE   MAN    AND    HIS    WORK  71 

too  much  mere  brute  fact  which  has  not  been  wrought  into  art.  But,  if  Zola 
is  not  among  the  world's  greatest  artists,  I  do  not  think  we  can  finally  deny 
that  he  is  a  great  artist. 

To  look  at  Zola  from  the  purely  artistic  standpoint,  however,  is  scarcely  to 
see  him  at  all.  His  significance  for  the  world  generally,  and  even  for  literature, 
lies  less  in  a  certain  method  of  using  his  material — as  it  may  be  said  to  lie, 
for  example,  in  the  case  of  the  Goncourts — than  in  the  material  itself,  and 
the  impulses  and  ideas  that  prompted  his  selection  of  that  material.  These 
growing  piles  of  large  books  are  the  volcanic  ejecta  of  an  original  and  exuberant 
temperament.     To  understand  them  we  must  investigate  this  temperament. 

A  considerable  and  confused  amount  of  racial  energy  was  stored  up  in 
Zola.  At  once  French,  Italian  and  Greek — with  a  mother  from  the  central 
Beauce  country  of  France,  more  fruitful  in  corn  than  in  intellect,  and  a  father  of 
mixed  foreign  race,  a  mechanical  genius  in  his  way,  with  enthusiastic  energies 
and  large  schemes — he  presents  a  curious  combination  of  potential  forces, 
perhaps  not  altogether  a  very  promising  combination.  One  notes  that  the 
mechanical  engineer  in  the  father  seems  to  have  persisted  in  the  son,  not 
necessarily  by  heredity,  but  perhaps  by  early  familiarity  and  association. 
Young  Zola  was  by  no  means  a  brilliant  schoolboy,  though  he  once  won  a 
prize  for  memory  ;  such  ability  as  he  showed  was  in  the  direction  of  science  ; 
he  had  no  literary  aptitudes.  He  seems  to  have  adopted  literature  chierly 
because  pen  and  ink  come  handiest  to  the  eager  energies  of  a  poor  clerk. 
It  is  scarcely  fanciful  to  detect  the  mechanical  aptitudes  still.  Just  as  all 
Huxley's  natural  instincts  were  towards  mechanics,  and  in  physiology  he 
always  sought  for  the  "go"  of  the  organism,  so  Zola,  however  imperfect 
his  scientific  equipment  may  be,  has  always  sought  for  the  "  go "  of  the 
social  organism.  The  history  of  the  Rougon-Macquart  family  is  a  study 
in  social  mathematics  :  given  certain  family  strains,  what  is  the  dynamic 
hereditary    outcome    of   their   contact  ? 

To  the  making  of  Zola  there  went,  therefore,  this  curious  racial  blend, 
as  a  soil  ready  to  be  fertilised  by  any  new  seed,  and  a  certain  almost 
instinctive  tendency  to  look  at  things  from  the  mechanical  and  material   point 


72  THE   SAVOY 

of  view.  To  these,  in  very  early  life,  a  third  factor  was  added  of  the  first 
importance.  During  long  years  after  his  father's  death,  Zola,  as  a  child  and 
youth,  suffered  from  poverty,  poverty  almost  amounting  to  actual  starvation, 
the  terrible  poverty  of  respectability.  The  whole  temper  of  his  work  and 
his  outlook  on  the  world  are  clearly  conditioned  by  this  prolonged  starvation 
of  adolescence.  The  timid  and  reserved  youth — for  such,  it  is  said,  has  been 
Zola's  character  both  in  youth  and  manhood — was  shut  up  with  his  fresh 
energies  in  a  garret  while  the  panorama  of  the  Paris  world  was  unfolded 
below  him.  Forced  by  circumstances  or  by  temperament  to  practise  the 
strictest  chastity  and  sobriety,  there  was  but  one  indulgence  left  open  to  him, 
an  orgy  of  vision.  Of  this,  as  we  read  his  books,  we  cannot  doubt  that  he 
fully  availed  himself,  for  each  volume  of  the  Rougon-Macquart  series  is  an 
orgy  of  material  vision.* 

Zola  is  still  said  to  be  chaste,  and  he  is  still  sober — though  we  are 
told  that  his  melancholy  morose  face  lights  up  like  a  gourmet's  at  dinner 
time — but  this  early  eagerness  to  absorb  the  sights  as  well  as  the  sounds,  and 
one  may  add  the  smells,  of  the  external  world,  has  at  length  become  moulded 
into  a  routine  method.  To  take  some  corner  of  life,  and  to  catalogue  every 
detail  of  it,  to  place  a  living  person  in  it,  and  to  describe  every  sight  and 
smell  and  sound  around  him,  although  he  himself  may  be  quite  unconscious  of 
them — that,  in  the  simplest  form,  is  the  recipe  for  making  a  roman  experimental . 
The  method,  I  wish  to  insist,  was  rooted  in  the  author's  experience  of  the 
world.  Life  only  came  to  him  as  the  sights,  sounds,  smells,  that  reached  his 
garret  window.  His  soul  seems  to  have  been  starved  at  the  centre,  and  to 
have  encamped  at   the  sensory  periphery.       He    never    tasted    deep   of  life,  he 

'  "  Mes  souvenirs,"  he  told  a  psychological  interviewer,  "ont  une  puissance,  un  relief 
extraordinaire;  ma  memoire  est  enonne,  prodigieuse,  elle  me  gene;  quand  j'evoque  les  objets 
que  j'ai  vus,  je  les  revois  tels  qu'ils  sont  reellement  avec  leurs  lignes,  leurs  formes,  leurs 
couleurs,  leurs  odeurs,  leurs  sons  ;  e'est  utu  materialisation  a  entrance  ;  le  soleil  qui  les 
eclairait  m'eblouit  presque ;  l'odeur  me  suffoque,  les  details  s'accrochent  a  moi  et  m'em- 
pechent  de  voir  l'ensemble.  Aussi  pour  le  ressaisir  me  faut  0  attendre  un  certain  temps 
Cette  possibility  d'evocation  ne  dure  pas  tres  longtemps ;  le  relief  de  1  image  est  dune 
exactitude,  dune  intensite  inouies,  puis  l'image  s'efface,  disparait,  cela  sen  va ."'  This  descrip- 
tion suggests  myopia,  and  it  is  a  fact  that  Zola  has  been  short-sighted  from  youth ;  he  first 
realised  it  at  nineteen.     His  other  senses,  especially  smell,  are  very  keen 


ZOLA  :     THE   .1/  IN    AND   HIS    WORK  73 

Stored  up  none  of  those  wells  of  purely  personal  emotion  from  which  great 
artists  have  hoisted  up  the  precious  lluid  which  makes  the  bright,  living  blood 
of  their  creations.  How  different  he  is  in  this  respect  from  the  other  great 
novelist  of  our  day,  who  has  also  been  a  volcanic  force  of  world-wide  sig- 
nificance !  Tolstoi  comes  before  us  as  a  man  who  has  himself  lived  deeply,  a 
man  who  has  had  an  intense  thirst  for  life,  and  who  has  satisfied  that  thirst. 
He  has  craved  to  know  life,  to  know  women,  the  joy  of  wine,  the  fury  of 
battle,  the  taste  of  the  ploughman's  sweat  in  the  field.  He  has  known  all 
these  things,  not  as  material  to  make  books,  but  as  the  slaking  of  instinctive 
personal  passions.  And  in  knowing  them  he  has  stored  up  a  wealth  of 
experience  from  which  he  drew  as  he  came  to  make  books,  and  which  bear 
about  them  that  peculiar  haunting  fragrance  only  yielded  by  the  things  which 
have  been  lived  through,  personally,  in  the  far  past.  Zola's  method  has  been 
quite  otherwise :  when  he  wished  to  describe  a  great  house  he  sat  outside  the 
palatial  residence  of  M.  Menier,  the  chocolate  manufacturer,  and  imagined 
for  himself  the  luxurious  fittings  inside,  discovering  in  after  years  that  his 
description  had  come  far  short  of  the  reality ;  before  writing  "  Nana,"  he 
obtained  an  introduction  to  a  courtesan,  with  whom  he  was  privileged  to 
lunch  ;  his  laborious  preparation  for  the  wonderful  account  of  the  war  of  1870, 
in  "  La  Debacle,"  was  purely  one  of  books,  documents,  and  second-hand 
experiences;  when  he  wished  to  write  of  labour  he  went  to  the  mines  and  to 
the  fields,  but  never  appears  to  have  done  a  day's  manual  work.  Zola's 
literary  methods  are  those  of  the  parvenu  who  has  tried  to  thrust  himself  in 
from  outside,  who  has  never  been  seated  at  the  table  of  life,  who  has  never 
really  lived.  That  is  their  weakness.  It  is  also  their  virtue.  There  is  no 
sense  of  satiety  in  Zola's  work  as  there  is  in  Tolstoi's.  One  can  understand 
how  it  is  that,  although  their  methods  are  so  unlike,  Tolstoi  himself  regards 
Zola  as  the  one  French  novelist  of  the  day  who  is  really  alive.  The  starved 
lad,  whose  eyes  were  concentrated  with  longing  on  the  visible  world,  has 
reaped  a  certain  reward  from  his  intellectual  chastity ;  he  has  preserved  his 
clearness  of  vision  for  material  things,  an  eager,  insatiable,  impartial  vision. 
He  is  a  zealot   in   his  devotion  to  life,   to  the  smallest   details  of  life.     He  has 


74  THE   SAVOY 

fought  like  the  doughtiest  knight  of  old-world  romance  for  his  lady's  honour, 
and  has  suffered  more  contumely  than  they  all.  "  On  barde  de  fer  nos 
urinoirs  !  "  he  shouts  in  a  fury  of  indignation  in  one  of  his  essays ;  it  is  a 
curious  instance  of  the  fanatic's  austere  determination  that  no  barrier  shall 
be  set  up  to  shut  out  the  sights  and  smells  of  the  external  world.  The 
virgin  freshness  of  his  thirst  for  life  gives  its  swelling,  youthful  vigour  to  his 
work,  its  irrepressible  energy. 

It  has,  indeed,  happened  with  this  unsatisfied  energy  as  it  will  happen 
with  such  energies  ;  it  has  retained  its  robustness  at  the  sacrifice  of  the 
sweetness  it  might  otherwise  have  gained.  There  is  a  certain  bitterness  in 
Zola's  fury  of  vision,  as  there  is  also  in  his  gospel  of  "Work!  work!  work!  " 
One  is  conscious  of  a  savage  assault  on  a  citadel  which,  the  assailant  now 
well  knows,  can  never  be  scaled.  Life  cannot  be  reached  by  the  senses  alone ; 
there  is  always  something  that  cannot  be  caught  by  the  utmost  tension 
of  eyes  and  ears  and  nose  ;  a  well-balanced  soul  is  built  up,  not  alone  on 
sensory  memories,  but  also  on  the  harmonious  satisfaction  of  the  motor  and 
emotional  energies.  That  cardinal  fact  must  be  faced  even  when  we  are 
attempting  to  define  the  fruitful  and  positive  element  in  Zola's  activity. 

The  chief  service  which  Zola  has  rendered  to  his  fellow  artists  and 
successors,  the  reason  of  the  immense  stimulus  he  supplies,  seems  to  lie  in 
the  proofs  he  has  brought  of  the  latent  artistic  uses  of  the  rough,  neglected 
details  of  life.  The  Rougon-Macquart  series  has  been  to  his  weaker  brethren 
like  that  great  sheet  knit  at  the  four  corners,  let  down  from  Heaven  full  of 
four-footed  beasts  and  creeping  things  and  fowls  of  the  air,  and  bearing  in  it 
the  demonstration  that  to  the  artist  as  to  the  moralist  nothing  can  be  called 
common  or  unclean.  It  has  henceforth  become  possible  for  other  novelists  to 
find  inspiration  where  before  they  could  never  have  turned,  to  touch  life  with 
a  vigour  and  audacity  of  phrase  which,  without  Zola's  example,  they  would 
have  trembled  to  use,  while  they  still  remain  free  to  bring  to  their  work  the 
simplicity,  precision,  and  inner  experience  which  he  has  never  possessed. 
Zola  has  enlarged  the  field  of  the  novel.  He  has  brought  the  modern 
material   world   into   fiction    in    a    more  definite   and    thorough    manner  than  it 


ZOLA  -.     THE   MAX   AND   HIS    WORK  75 

has  ever  been  brought  before,  just  as  Richardson  brought  the  modern 
emotional  world  into  fiction ;  such  an  achievement  necessarily  marks  an 
epoch.  In  spite  of  all  his  blunders,  Zola  has  given  the  novel  new  power  and 
directness,  a  vigour  of  fibre  which  was  hard  indeed  to  attain,  but  which, 
once  attained,  we  may  chasten  as  we  will.  And  in  doing  this  he  has  put  out  of 
court,  perhaps  for  ever,  those  unwholesome  devotees  of  the  novelist's  art  who, 
worked  out  of  their  vacuity,  have  neither  inner  nor  outer  world  to  tell  of. 

Zola's  delight  in  exuberant  detail,  it  is  true,  is  open  to  severe  criticism. 
When,  however,  we  look  at  his  work,  not  as  a  great  art  but  as  an  important 
moment  in  the  evolution  of  the  novel,  this  exuberance  is  amply  justified. 
Such  furious  energy  in  hammering  home  this  demonstration  of  the  artistic 
utility  of  the  whole  visible  modern  world  may  detract  from  the  demonstrator's 
reputation  for  skill ;  it  has  certainly  added  to  the  force  of  the  demonstration. 
Zola's  luxuriance  of  detail  has  extended  impartially  to  every  aspect  of  life  he 
has  investigated,  to  the  working  of  a  mine,  to  the  vegetation  of  the  Paradou, 
to  the  ritual  of  the  Catholic  Church.  But  it  is  not  on  the  details  of  inanimate 
life,  or  the  elaborate  description  of  the  industrial  and  religious  functions  of 
men,  that  the  rage  of  Zola's  adversaries  has  chiefly  been  spent.  It  is  rather 
on  his  use  of  the  language  of  the  common  people  and  on  his  descriptions 
of  the  sexual  and  digestive  functions  of  humanity.  Zola  has  used  slang — the 
argot  of  the  populace — copiously,  chiefly  indeed  in  "  L'Assommoir "  which 
is  professedly  a  study  of  low  life,  but  to  a  less  extent  in  his  other  books.  A 
considerable  part  of  the  power  of  "  L'Assommoir,"  in  many  respects  Zola's 
most  perfect  work,  lies  in  the  skill  with  which  he  uses  the  language  of  the 
people  he  is  dealing  with  ;  the  reader  is  bathed  throughout  in  an  atmosphere 
of  picturesque,  vigorous,  often  coarse  argot.  There  is,  no  doubt,  a  lack  of 
critical  sobriety  in  the  profusion  and  reiteration  of  vulgarisms,  of  coarse  oaths, 
of  the  varied  common  synonyms  for  common  things.  But  they  achieve  the 
end    that    Zola    sought,   and    so   justify  themselves. 

They  are  of  even  greater  interest  as  a  protest  against  the  exaggerated 
purism  which  has  ruled  the  French  language  for  nearly  three  centuries,  and 
while  rendering  it  a  more  delicate  and  precise  instrument  for  scientific 
purposes,    has    caused    it    to    become    rather    bloodless    and    colourless    for   the 


76  THE   SAVOY 

artist's  purposes,  as  compared  with  the  speech  used  by  Rabelais,  Montaigne, 
and  even  Moliere,  the  great  classics  who  have  chiefly  influenced  Zola.  The 
romantic  movement  of  the  present  century,  it  is  true,  added  colour  to  the 
language,  but  scarcely  blood  ;  it  was  an  exotic,  feverish  colour  which  has  not 
permanently  enriched  French  speech.  A  language  rendered  anaemic  by  over- 
clarification  cannot  be  fed  by  exotic  luxuries  but  by  an  increase  in  the 
vigorous  staples  of  speech,  and  Zola  was  on  the  right  track  when  he  went 
'  to  the  people's  common  speech,  which  is  often  classic  in  the  true  sense 
and  always  robust.  Doubtless  he  has  been  indiscriminate  and  even  inac- 
curate in  his  use  of  argot,  sometimes  giving  undue  place  to  what  is  of  merely 
temporary  growth.  But  the  main  thing  was  to  give  literary  place  and 
prestige  to  words  and  phrases  which  had  fallen  so  low  in  general  estimate, 
in  spite  of  their  admirable  expressiveness,  that  only  a  writer  of  the  first 
rank  and  of  unequalled  audacity  could  venture  to  lift  them  from  the  mire. 
This  Zola  has  done ;  and  those  who  follow  him  may  easily  exercise  the 
judgment    and    discretion    in    which    he    has    been    lacking. 

Zola's  treatment  of  the  sexual  and  the  digestive  functions,  as  I  pointed 
out,  has  chiefly  aroused  his  critics.  If  you  think  of  it,  these  two  functions 
are  precisely  the  central  functions  of  life,  the  two  poles  of  hunger  and  love 
around  which  the  world  revolves.  It  is  natural  that  it  should  be  precisely 
these  fundamental  aspects  of  life  which  in  the  superficial  contact  of  ordinary 
social  intercourse  we  are  for  ever  trying  more  and  more  to  refine  away 
and  ignore.  They  are  subjected  to  an  ever-encroaching  process  of  attenuation 
and  circumlocution,  and  as  a  social  tendency  this  influence  is  possibly 
harmless  or  even  beneficial.  But  it  is  constantly  extending'  to  literature 
also,  and  here  it  is  disastrous.  It  is  true  that  a  few  great  authors — 
classics  of  the  first  rank — have  gone  to  extremes  in  their  resistance  to  this 
tendency.  These  extremes  are  of  two  kinds :  the  first  issuing  in  a  sort 
of  coprolalia,  or  inclination  to  dwell  on  excrement,  which  we  find  to  a 
slight  extent  in  Rabelais  and  to  a  marked  extent  in  the  half-mad  Swift  ; 
in  its  fully-developed  shape  this  coprolalia  is  an  uncontrollable  instinct  found 
in  some  forms  of  insanity.  The  other  extreme  is  that  of  pruriency,  or  the 
perpetual    itch    to    circle    round    sexual    matters,    accompanied    by    a    timidity 


ZOLA  :     THE  MAN   AND    HIS   WORK  77 

which  makes  it  impossible  to  come  right  up  to  them ;  this  sort  of  impotent 
fumbling  in  women's  placket-holes  finds  its  supreme  literary  exponent  in 
Sterne.  Like  coprolalia,  when  uncontrolled,  prurience  is  a  well-recognised 
characteristic  of  the  insane,  leading  them  to  find  a  vague  eroticism  every- 
where. But  both  these  extreme  tendencies  have  not  been  found  incom- 
patible with  the  highest  literary  art.  And,  moreover,  their  most  pronounced 
exponents  have  been  clerics,  the  conventional  representatives  of  the  Almighty. 
However  far  Zola  might  go  in  these  directions,  he  would  still  be  in  what  is 
universally  recognised  as  very  good  company.  He  has  in  these  respects 
by  no  means  come  up  with  Father  Rabelais  and  Dean  Swift  and  the  Rev. 
Laurence  Sterne  ;  but  there  can  be  little  doubt  that,  along  both  lines,  he  has 
gone  farther  than  a  perfectly  well-balanced  artist  would  go.  On  the  one 
hand  he  over-emphasises  what  is  repulsive  in  the  nutritive  side  of  life,  and 
on  the  other  hand,  with  the  timid  obsession  of  chastity,  he  over-emphasises 
the  nakedness  of  flesh.  In  so  doing,  he  has  revealed  a  certain  flabbiness 
in  his  art,  although  he  has  by  no  means  diminished  his  service  in  widening 
the  horizon  of  literary  speech  and  subject.  Bearing  in  mind  that  many 
crowned  kings  of  literature  have  approached  these  subjects  quite  as  closely 
as  Zola,  and  far  less  seriously,  it  does  not  seem  necessary  to  enter  any 
severer  judgment  here. 

To  enlarge  the  sphere  of  language  is  an  unthankful  task,  but  in  the 
long  run  literature  owes  an  immense  debt  to  the  writers  who  courageously 
add  to  the  stock  of  strong  and  simple  words.  Our  own  literature  during 
the  last  two  centuries  has  been  terribly  hampered  by  the  social  tendency 
of  life  to  slur  expression,  and  to  paraphrase  or  suppress  all  forceful  and 
poignant  words.  If  we  go  back  to  Chaucer,  or  even  to  Shakespeare,  we 
realise  what  power  of  expression  we  have  lost.  It  is  enough,  indeed,  to 
turn  to  our  English  Bible.  The  literary  power  of  the  English  Bible  is 
largely  due  to  the  unconscious  instinct  for  style  which  happened  to  be  in 
the  air  when  it  was  chiefly  moulded,  to  the  simple,  direct,  unashamed  vigour 
of  its  speech.  If  some  of  the  stories  of  the  Old  Testament  were  presented 
to  us  under  some  trifling  disguise  on  week-days  we  should  declare  that  they 
were    filthier  than   the   filthiest   things  in    Zola ;    and,  certainly,  if  the  discovery 

6 


78  THE   SAVOY 

of  the  Bible  had  been  left  for  us  to  make,  any  English  translation  would 
have  to  be  issued  at  a  high  price  by  some  esoteric  society  for  fear  lest  it 
should  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  British  matron.  It  is  our  British  love 
of  compromise,  we  say,  that  makes  it  possible  for  a  spade  to  be  called  a 
spade  on  one  day  of  the  week,  but  on  no  other ;  our  neighbours,  whose 
minds  are  more  logically  constituted,  call  it  le  cant  Bvitannique.  But  our 
mental  compartments  remain  very  water-tight,  and  on  the  whole  we  are 
even  worse  off  than  the  French  who  have  no  Bible.  For  instance,  we  have 
almost  lost  the  indispensable  words  "  belly  "  and  "  bowels,"  both  used  so 
often  and  with  such  admirable  effect  in  the  Psalms;  we  talk  of  the  "stomach," 
a  word  which  is  not  only  an  incorrect  equivalent,  but  at  best  totally  inapt 
for  serious  or  poetic  uses.  Anyone  who  is  acquainted  with  our  old  literature, 
or  with  the  familiar  speech  of  the  common  folk,  will  recall  numberless  similar 
instances  of  simple,  powerful  expressions  which  are  lost  or  vanishing  from 
literary  language,  leaving  no  available  substitute  behind.  In  modern  literary 
language,  indeed,  man  scarcely  exists  save  in  his  extremities.  For  we  take 
the  pubes  as  a  centre,  and  we  thence  describe  a  circle  with  a  radius  of  some 
eighteen  inches — in  America  the  radius  is  rather  longer — and  we  forbid  any 
reference  to  any  organ  within  that  circle,  save  that  maid  -  of  -  all -work  the 
"  stomach  " ;  in  other  words,  we  make  it  impossible  to  say  anything  to  the 
point  concerning  the  central  functions  of  life.  It  is  a  question  how  far  any 
real  vital  literature  can  be  produced  under  such  conditions. 

In  considering  Zola,  we  are  constantly  brought  back  to  the  fact  that 
most  of  the  things  that  he  has  tried  to  do  have  been  better  done  by  more 
accomplished  artists.  The  Goncourts  have  extended  the  sphere  of  language 
even  in  the  direction  of  slang,  and  have  faced  many  of  the  matters  that 
Zola  has  faced,  and  with  far  more  delicate,  though  usually  more  shadowy,  art ; 
Balzac  has  created  as  large  and  vivid  a  world  of  people,  though  drawing  more 
of  it  from  his  own  imagination ;  Huysmans  has  greater  skill  in  stamping  the 
vision  of  strange  or  sordid  things  on  the  brain ;  Tolstoi  gives  a  deeper 
realisation  of  life;  Flaubert  is  as  audaciously  naturalistic,  and  has,  as  well, 
that  perfect  self-control  which  should  always  accompany  audacity.  And  in 
Flaubert,  too,  we  find  something  of   the  same  irony  as  in  Zola. 


ZOLA:     THE   MIX   AND   HIS    WORK  79 

This  irony,  however,  is  a  personal  and  characteristic  feature  of  Zola's 
work.  It  is  irony  alone  which  gives  it  distinction  and  poignant  incisiveness. 
Irony  may  be  called  the  soul  of  Zola's  work,  the  embodiment  of  his  moral 
attitude  towards  life.  It  has  its  source,  doubtless,  like  so  much  else  that  is 
characteristic,  in  his  early  days  of  poverty  and  aloofness  from  the  experiences 
of  life.  There  is  a  fierce  impartiality — the  impartiality  of  one  who  is  outside 
and  shut  oil  -in  this  manner  of  presenting  the  brutalities  and  egoisms  and 
pettinesses  of  men.  The  fury  of  his  irony  is  here  equalled  by  his  self- 
restraint.  He  concentrates  it  into  a  word,  a  smile,  a  gesture.  Zola  believes, 
undoubtedly,  in  a  reformed,  even  perhaps  a  revolutionised,  future  of  society, 
but  he  has  no  illusions.  He  sets  down  things  as  he  sees  them.  He  has  no 
tendernesses  for  the  working  -  classes,  no  pictures  of  rough  diamonds.  YVe 
may  see  this  very  clearly  in  "  Germinal."  Here  every  side  of  the  problem 
of  modern  capitalism  is  presented:  the  gentle-natured  shareholding  class 
unable  to  realise  a  state  of  society  in  which  people  should  not  live  on 
dividends  and  give  charity  ;  the  official  class  with  their  correct  authoritative 
views,  very  sure  that  they  will  always  be  needed  to  control  labour  and 
maintain  social  order ;  and  the  workers,  some  brutalised,  some  suffering  like 
dumb  beasts,  some  cringing  to  the  bosses,  some  rebelling  madly,  a  few- 
striving   blindly   for  justice. 

There  is  no  loophole  in  Zola's  impartiality  ;  the  gradual  development  of 
the  seeming  hero  of  "  Germinal,"  Etienne  Lantier,  the  agitator,  honest  in  his 
revolt  against  oppression,  but  with  an  unconscious  bourgeois  ideal  at  his  heart, 
seems  unerringly  right.  All  are  the  victims  of  an  evil  social  system,  as  Zola  sees 
the  world,  the  enslaved  workers  as  much  as  the  overfed  masters;  the  only 
logical  outcome  is  a  clean  sweep — the  burning  up  of  the  chaff  and  straw, 
the  fresh  furrowing  of  the  earth,  the  new  spring  of  a  sweet  and  vigorous 
race.  That  is  the  logical  outcome  of  Zola's  attitude,  the  attitude  of  an 
optimist,  or  at  all  events  a  meliorist,  who  regards  our  present  society  as  a 
thoroughly  vicious  circle.  His  pity  for  men  and  women  is  boundless ;  his 
disdain  is  equally  boundless.  It  is  only  towards  animals  that  his  tenderness 
is  untouched  by  contempt  ;  some  of  his  most  memorable  passages  are  con- 
cerned   with    the    sufferings    of  animals.      The    New   Jerusalem    may   be    fitted 

6—2 


8o  THE   SAVOY 

up,  but  the  Montsou  miners  will  never  reach  it  ;  they  will  fight  for  the  first 
small,  stuffy,  middle-class  villa  they  meet  on  the  way.  And  Zola  pours  out 
the  stream  of  his  pitiful,  pitiless  irony  on  the  weak,  helpless,  erring  children 
of  men.  It  is  this  moral  energy,  combined  with  his  volcanic  exuberance, 
which  lifts  him  to  a  position  of  influence  above  the  greater  artists  with  whom 
we  may  compare  him. 

It  is  by  no  means  probable  that  the  world  will  continue  to  read  Zola 
much  longer.  His  work  is  already  done  ;  but  when  the  nineteenth  century  is 
well  past  it  may  be  that  he  will  still  have  his  interest.  There  will  be  plenty 
of  material,  especially  in  the  newspapers,  for  the  future  historian  to  reconstruct 
the  social  life  of  the  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  But  the  material 
is  so  vast  that  these  historians  will  possibly  be  even  more  biassed  and  one- 
sided than  our  own.  For  a  vivid,  impartial  picture — on  the  whole  a  faithful 
picture — of  certain  of  the  most  characteristic  aspects  of  this  period,  seen  in- 
deed from  the  outside,  but  drawn  by  a  contemporary  in  all  its  intimate  and 
even  repulsive  details,  the  reader  of  a  future  age  can  best  go  to  Zola.  What 
would  we  not  give  for  a  thirteenth  century  Zola !  We  should  read  with 
painful,  absorbed  interest  a  narrative  of  the  Black  Death  as  exact  as  that  of 
nineteenth  century  alcoholism  in  "  L'Assommoir."  The  story  of  how  the  serf 
lived,  as  fully  told  as  in  "  La  Terre,"  would  be  of  incomparable  value.  The 
early  merchant  and  usurer  would  be  a  less  dim  figure  if  "  L' Argent  "  had  been 
written  about  him.  The  abbeys  and  churches  of  those  days  have  in  part 
come  down  to  us,  but  no  "Germinal"  remains  to  tell  of  the  lives  and  thoughts 
of  the  men  who  hewed  those  stones,  and  piled  them,  and  carved  them.  How 
precious  such  record  would  have  been  we  may  realise  when  we  recall  the 
incomparable  charm  of  Chaucer's  prologue  to  "  The  Canterbury  Tales."  But 
our  children's  children,  with  the  same  passions  alive  at  their  hearts  under 
incalculably  different  circumstances,  will  in  the  pages  of  the  Rougon-Macquart 
series  find  themselves  back  again  among  all  the  strange,  remote  details  of  a 
vanished  world.      What  a  fantastic  and  terrible  page  of  old-world  romance ! 

Havelock  Ellis. 


TWO    LOVE    POEMS 
THE    SHADOWY     HORSES 

HEAR    the    shadowy    horses,    their    long   manes   a-shake, 
*        Their   hoofs    heavy    with    tumult,    their   eyes   glimmering  white ; 
rhe    North    unrolls   above   them    clinging,    creeping   night, 
The    Kast   tells   all    her    secret   joy    before   daybreak, 
The    West    weeps   in    pale    dew,    and    sighs,    passing   away, 
The    South    would    cover    them   with    roses    of   crimson    fire : 
( )    vanity    of   sleep,    hope,    dream,   endless   desire ; 
The    horses    of   disaster    plunge    in    the    desolate   clay. 
Beloved,   let   your   eyes   half  close,    and   your   heart    beat 
Over    my    heart,    and   your    hair    fall    about    my    breast 
Drowning    Love's    lonely    hour    in    deep    twilight    of   rest ; 
And    hide    their    tossing    manes    and    their    tumultuous    feet. 


THE    TRAVAIL    OF     PASSION 

YVYHKN    the    flaming,    lute-thronged   angelic   door   is   wide; 
'  '        When    an    immortal    passion    breathes    in    mortal    clay, 
Out    hearts    endure    the    plaited    thorn,    the    crowded    way, 
The    knotted  scourge,    the    nail-pierced    hands,    the    wounded    suit-. 
The    hissop-heavy    sponge,    the   flowers   by    Kidron    stream : 
We    will    bend    down,    and    loosen    our    hair    over    you 
That    it    may    drop    faint    perfume    and    be    heavy    with    dew, 
I. Hits    of   death-pale    hope,    roses   of   passionate    dream. 

W.    Li.    Yeats. 


DIEPPE:     1895 


WENT  to  Dieppe  this  summer,  with  the  intention  of  staying  from 
.■*■  Saturday  to  Monday.  Two  months  afterwards,  I  began  to  wonder, 
with  a  very  mild  kind  of  surprise,  why  I  had  not  yet  returned  to  London. 
And  I  was  not  the  only  one  to  fall  under  this  inexplicable  fascination. 
There  is  a  fantastical  quality  in  Dieppe  air  which  somehow  turns  us 
all,  at  our  moments,  into  amiable  and  enthusiastic  lunatics.  Relays  of 
friends  kept  arriving,  I  as  little  as  they  knew  why ;  and  some  of 
them,  like  myself,  never  went  back.  Others,  forced  to  live  mostly  in 
London,  and  for  the  most  part  content  to  live  there,  went  backwards  and 
forwards  every  week.  What  is  it,  in  this  little  French  watering-place,  that 
appeals  so  to  the  not  quite  conventional  Englishman,  brings  him  to  it,  holds 
him  in  it,  brings  him  back  to  it  so  inevitably  ?  Nothing,  and  everything ;  an 
impalpable  charm,  the  old-fashioned  distinction  of  a  little  town  which  has  still, 
in  its  faded  lawns  by  the  sea,  in  the  line  of  white  hotels  beyond  the  lawns, 
something  of  that  1830  air  which  exhales  for  us  from  a  picture  of  Bonington. 
And  then  Dieppe  is  so  discreetly,  and  with  such  self-respect,  hospitable  to 
us  English :  so  different  from  the  vulgar  friendliness  of  Boulogne,  with  its 
"  English  chop-houses "  insulting  one's  taste  at  every  step.  Dieppe  receives 
us  with  perfectly  French  manners,  offers  us  politeness,  and  exacts  it  on  our 
part,  and  pleases  a  sensitive  and  appreciative  Englishman  because  it  is  so 
charming  in  such  a  French  way.  And  then  life,  if  you  will  but  abandon 
yourself  to  the  natural  current  of  things,  passes  in  a  dream.  I  do  not  quite 
know  why,  but  one  cannot  take  things  seriously  at  Dieppe.  Only  just  on 
the  other  side  of  that  blue  streak  is  England :  England  means  London.  At 
the  other  end  of  a  short  railway-line  is  Paris.  But  all  that  is  merely  so 
man}'  words  :    the  mind  refuses  to  grasp  it  as  a  fact.     One's  duties,   probably, 


DIEPPE:    1895  85 

call  one  to  London  or  Paris,  one's  realisable  pleasures;  everything  hut  the 
moment's  vague,  immense,  I  say  again,  inexplicable,  satisfaction,  which  broods 
and  dawdles  about  Dieppe. 

At  Dieppe  the  sea  is  liberal,  and  affords  you  a  long  sweep  from  the 
cliffs  on  the  left  to  the  pier  on  the  right.  A  few  villas  nestle  under  the 
cliffs  ;  then  comes  the  Casino,  which  takes  its  slice  of  the  plage  with 
excellent  judgment.  Built  of  peppermint-coloured  brick,  it  sprawls  its  length 
insolently  above  the  sea.  It  is  quite  nice,  as  casinos  go  ;  it  is  roomy, 
and  has  some  amusing  chandeliers  hung  up  by  ribbons ;  and  the  terrace 
is  absolutely  charming.  If  you  are  insular  enough  to  wish  it,  you  can  sit 
and  drink  brandies  and  sodas  all  day ;  if  you  would  do  in  France  as  the 
French  do,  you  can  sit  nearer  the  parapet,  with  an  awning  stretched 
above  your  head,  and  look  out  drowsily  over  the  sea,  which  is  worth 
looking  at  here,  opalescent,  full  of  soft  changes  ;  and  you  can  chat  with 
as  many  of  the  beautes  de  plage,  Polish  princes,  and  distinguished  artistic 
people  as  you  happen  to  know.  There  is  the  Prince  de  Sagan,  with 
his  irreproachable  button-hole  ;  the  Comtesse  de  Greffulhe  is  standing  on 
the  estacade ;  Massenet  and  Saint-Saens  are  sitting  on  the  chairs  yonder ; 
Cleo  de  Merode,  the  1830  beauty  of  the  Opera,  whose  photograph  you 
have  seen  in  every  shop  window  in  Paris,  is  taking  her  bath,  wearing 
the  prettiest  little  black  socks,  yellow  gloves,  and  a  thin,  many-twisted 
gold  chain  about  her  neck.  All  around  you,  bright  in  the  bright  sun, 
there  is  a  flow  of  soft  dresses,  mostly  in  sharp,  clear  colours,  vivid  yellows 
and  blues  and  whites,  the  most  wonderful  blues,  more  dazzling  than  the 
sea.  And  there  are  delicious  hats,  floating  over  the  hair  like  clouds  ;  great 
floating  sleeves,  adding  wings  to  the  butterfly.  I  adore  beautiful  summer 
dresses,  and  here  at  Dieppe  you  have  all  the  fashions  and  felicities  of  a 
whole   summer. 

Ah !  but  the  plage,  on  a  sunny  morning  in  mid-season,  what  a  feast 
of  colour,  of  movement,  of  the  most  various  curiosities  !  The  plage  has  its 
social  laws,  its  social  divisions,  an  etiquette  almost  as  scrupulous  as  a  drawing- 
room.     All  the  space  in   front  of  the  Casino  is  tacitly  reserved  for    the   people 


86  THE   SAVOY 

who  subscribe  to  the  Casino,  and  who  are  moving  up  and  down  the  wooden  stair- 
case from  the  terrace  to  the  beach  all  day  long.  Beyond  that  limit  the  plage 
is  plebeian,  and  belongs  to  everybody.  Women  sit  about  there  with  shawls 
and  babies  and  paper  parcels.  At  the  bathing  hours  it  is  a  little  more  select, 
for  some  people,  with  full  liberty  of  choice,  prefer  to  bathe  there.  Outside 
the  Casino  there  are  fewer  people,  but  one  is  more  or  less  smart,  and  the 
barons  and  beautes  dc  plage  are  alike  here.  In  front  of  the  double  row  of 
bathing  machines  there  is  a  line  of  little  private  boxes.  Smart  women  sit 
on  exhibition  in  every  compartment,  wearing  their  best  hats  and  smiles, 
sometimes  pretending  to  read  or  sew :  as  if  one  did  anything  but  sit  on 
exhibition,  and  flirt,  and  chatter,  and  look  at  the  bathers !  There  is  a 
constant  promenade  along  the  shifting  and  resounding  pathway  of  boards 
laid  over  the  great  pebbles ;  chairs  are  grouped  closely  all  along  the  plage 
between  this  promenade  and  the  sea ;  there  is  another  little  crowd  on  the 
estacade,  from  which  the  bathers  are  diving.  The  bright  dresses  glitter  in 
the  sunlight,  like  a  flower  garden  ;  white  peignoirs,  bright  and  dark  bathing 
costumes,  the  white  and  rose  of  bare  and  streaming  flesh,  passing  to  and  fro, 
hurriedly,  between  the  bathing  machines  and  the  sea.  The  men,  if  they  have 
good  figures,  look  well ;  they  have  at  least  the  chance  of  looking  well.  But 
the  women  !  Rare,  indeed,  is  the  woman  who  can  look  pretty,  in  her  toilette 
or  herself,  as  she  comes  out  of  the  sea,  wraps  herself  in  a  sort  of  white 
nightgown,  and  staggers  up  the  beach,  the  water  running  down  her  legs. 
Even  at  the  more  elegant  moment  when  she  drops  her  peignoir  at  the  sea's 
edge,  before  stepping  in,  it  is  hard  for  her,  with  the  best  intentions  on  her 
part  and  the  best  of  wishes  on  ours,  to  look  desirable.  She  is  often  wise 
enough  to  wear  corsets  ;  without  them,  even  an  excellent  figure  may  appear 
a  little  extreme,  in  one  direction  or  another.  It  is  with  a  finer  taste,  after 
all,  that  in  England  the  women  are  not  allowed  to  bathe  with  the  men, 
are  kept  out  of  sight  as  much  as  possible.  A  sentimental  sensualist  should 
avoid  the  French  seaside.  He  will  be  pained  at  seeing  how  ridiculous  a 
beautiful  woman  may  look  when  she  has  very  few  clothes  on.  The  lines 
of  the  body  are  lost  or  deformed  ;    there  is  none  of  the  suggestion  of  ordinary 


DIEPPE:    IS'), 


87 


costume,  only  a  grotesque  and  shapeless  image,  all  in  pits  and  protuberances, 
for  which  Nature  should  be  ashamed  to  accept  responsibility.  Complete 
nudity,  there  is  no  doubt,  has  its  charm,  though  of  a   somewhat  primitive  kind; 


88  THE   SAVOY 

but  this  state  of  being  undressed  and  yet  covered,  in  this  makeshift,  unmilliner- 
like  way,  it  is  too  barbarous,  Mesdames,  for  the  tolerance  of  any  gentleman 
of  taste. 

II 

The  Casino  has  many  charms.  You  can  dance  there,  listen  to  music, 
walk  or  sit  on  the  terrace  in  the  sun,  write  your  letters  in  the  reading- 
room  on  the  very  pictorial  paper  which  is  so  carefully  doled  out  to  you  ; 
but  it  is  for  none  of  these  things  that  the  Casino  exists,  it  is  in  none  of 
these  things  that  there  lies  the  unique  fascination  of  the  Casino,  for  those 
to  whom  the  Casino  has  a  unique  fascination.  The  Casino,  properly 
speaking,  is  only  a  gorgeous  stable  for  the  little  horses  which  run  away 
with  all  the  money  of  the  visitors,  to  heap  up  the  golden  hoards  of 
Mr.  Isidore  Bloch,  late  of  Monte  Carlo.  All  the  rooms  in  the  Casino  open 
into  the  room  of  the  green  tables  ;  all  the  alleys  of  the  gardens  lead  there. 
In  the  intervals  of  the  concert,  if  you  wish  to  stroll  for  a  few  minutes  on 
the  terrace,  you  have  to  pass  through  the  room  ;  you  see  the  avid  circle 
about  the  tables,  the  swish  of  the  horses  ;  you  hear  the  monotonous  "  Faites 
vos  jeux,  Messieurs  ....  Les  jeux  sont  faits  ....  Rien  ne  va  plus," 
and  then,  after  the  expectant  pause,  the  number  :  "  L'as,  numero  un." 
And  in  time,  however  strong,  or  however  idle,  or  however  indifferent  you 
are,  you  will  be  drawn  into  that  fascinated  circle,  you  will  be  seized  by 
the  irresistible  impulse,  you  will  begin  to  play.  The  fascination  of 
gambling,  to  the  real  amateur  of  the  thing,  is  stronger  than  any  other 
passion.  Men  forget  that  a  beautiful  woman  is  sitting  opposite  to  them  ; 
women  do  not  so  much  as  notice  that  a  more  beautiful  toilette  than  their 
own  has  just  come  into  the  room.  I  have  seen  the  most  famous  professional 
beauties  of  Paris  sit  at  those  green  tables,  and  not  a  soul  has  looked  at 
them  except  the  croupiers  and  myself. 

I  said  the  impulse  was  irresistible.  I  have  proved  it  on  myself. 
Gambling  in  the  abstract  has  no  charms  for  me ;  I  can  go  to  the  races  with- 
out   the    slightest    inclination    to    take    the    odds ;    it    annoys    me    when    little 


DIEPPE  :    1895 

newspaper  boys  rush  up  to  me  as  if  expecting  me  to  buy  their  papers  because 
they  are  the  first  to  shout  "All  the  win-ner!  "  I  lounged  about  the  room  of 
the  Petits  Chevaux  for  weeks  without  putting  on  more  than  two  or  three  two- 
franc  pieces,  which  I  contentedly  lost.  I  saw  my  friends  winning  and  losing 
every  afternoon  and  every  evening  ;  I  saw  them  leaving  the  tables  with  their 
pockets  bulging  with  five-franc  pieces ;  I  heard  them  discussing  lucky  numbers  ; 
I  saw  the  strength  of  the  passion  which  held  them  by  the  urgency  and  the 
futility  of  their  remorse  when  they  had  lost ;  I  heard  them  saying  to  me,  "  It 
will  be  your  turn  next,"  and  I  laughed,  certain  of  myself.  I  put  on  a  few 
francs  to  please  a  charming  lady  whom  it  had  pleased  to  tempt  me,  and  I 
found  myself  waiting  with  more  interest  for  the  turn  of  her  head  as  she 
smiled  up  to  me,  from  time  to  time,  over  her  shoulder,  than  for  the  turn 
of  the  little  horse  past  the  winning  post.  I  knew  by  that  that  the  demon 
of  play   had    not    bitten    me ;     I    felt    absolutely   safe. 

Well,  of  course,  I  succumbed,  and  the  sensation  I  experienced  was 
worth  the  price  I  paid  for  it.  While  I  played,  nothing  existed  but  the  play  ; 
the  money  slipped  through  my  fingers,  I  gathered  it  in,  flung  it  forth,  with 
an  absorption  so  complete  that  my  actions  were  almost  mechanical.  My 
brain  seemed  to  act  with  instantaneous  energy  :  no  sooner  had  I  willed  than 
my  fingers  were  placing  the  coins  here,  and  not  there,  I  knew  not  why, 
on  the  table.  I  followed  no  system,  and  I  never  hesitated.  I  then  knew  for 
the  first  time  the  strength  of  convictions  for  which  there  is  not  even  the 
pretence  of  a  foundation.  While  my  money  lasted,  and  I  saw  it  flowing  to 
me  and  from  me  so  capriciously,  I  felt  what  I  think  must  have  been  the 
intoxication  of  abandoning  oneself  to  Fate,  with  an  astonishing  sense  of 
superiority  over  ordinary  mortals,  from  whom  I  was  almost  more  absolutely 
removed  than  if  I  had  been  moving  in  a  haschisch  dream.  And  in  the  exalta- 
tion, the  absorption,  of  this  dream,  in  which  I  was  acting  with  such  reckless 
and  causeless  certainty,  there  was  no  really  disillusioning  shock,  either  when 
I  lost  or  when  I  won.  My  excitement  was  so  great  that  I  accepted  these 
accidents  as  merely  points  in  a  progress.  After  a  time  I  did  not  even  play 
for  the  sake  of  winning.       I   played   for  the  sake  of  playing. 


9o  THE   SAVOY 

After  all,  Petits  Chcvaux  is  the  merest  amateur  gambling ;  the  serious 
people  who  play  baccarat  next  door,  in  the  club,  would  laugh  at  it,  and 
rightly,  from  the  gambler's  point  of  view.  The  interest  of  the  thing  is  in  its 
revelation  of  the  universal  humanity  of  the  gambling  instinct,  which  comes 
out  so  certainly  and  so  unexpectedly  in  the  people  who  gamble  once  in  the 
year,  for  a  few  scores  or  a  few  hundreds  of  francs.  And  those  green  tables 
are  so  admirable  in  the  view  they  afford  of  the  little  superstitions  which  exist 
somewhere  in  the  background  of  all  minds.  This  table  is  lucky  to  such  a 
person,  that  column  to  another.  The  women  swear  by  the  croupiers,  and 
will  take  any  amount  of  trouble  to  get  a  seat  by  the  side  of  the  one  they 
prefer.  And  the  croupiers,  little  miserable  engines  of  Fate,  sit  with  folded 
hands  and  intent  eyes,  impassive,  supercilious,  like  little  Eastern  gods,  raking 
in  the  money  without  satisfaction,  and  tossing  you  your  winnings  with  an  air 
of  disdain.  Yet  they,  too,  in  spite  of  their  air  of  supremacy,  are  entirely  at 
the  mercy  of  a  moment's  caprice.  A  croupier  at  whose  table  too  much  is 
won  is  liable  to  instant  dismissal  ;  at  the  best,  they  earn  their  five  hundred 
francs  a  month  only  during  the  few  months  of  the  season,  and  the  most 
imposing  of  all  the  croupiers  at  the  tables  now  has  just  appealed  to  a  lady 
who  plays  there,  offering  himself  and  his  wife  as  servants. 

Ill 

On  certain  afternoons  there  is  a  Bal  des  Enfants  at  the  Casino.  You 
cannot  imagine  anything  more  delicious.  All  around  the  room  sit  children,  in 
their  white  dresses,  their  little,  thin,  black  and  yellow  legs  set  forth  gravely. 
They  are  preoccupied  with  their  fans,  their  sashes,  their  gloves ;  their  hair 
is  beautifully  done  all  over  their  heads,  and  falls  down  their  backs.  The 
little  boys,  in  velvet  and  navy  suits,  march  to  and  fro,  very  solemnly,  a 
little  awkwardly,  bow,  and  choose  partners.  The  bigger  girls  (some  of  them 
are  thirteen  or  fourteen)  jump  up,  cross  the  room  hurriedly,  with  the  nervous 
movement  of  young  girls  walking,  tossing  their  hair  back  from  their  shoulders ; 
they  form  little  groups,  laugh  and  nod  to  the  grown-up  people  who  stand 
about    the    door ;    and  every   now  and    then   pounce  on   a  tiny  sister,  and   pull 


DIEPPE 


IS'), 


9i 


about  her  dress  until  its  set  suits  them.  In  the  middle  of  the  room  stand 
two  absurd  persons  :  the  blonde  Jew  with  the  immense  pink  nose,  the  golden 
beard  and  moustaches,  who  acts  as  master  of  the  ceremonies  :  he  tries  to 
assume  a  paternal  air,  his  swollen  eyes  dart  about  nervously  ;  and  the  middle- 
aged    lady    with    eyeglasses,    who    is    more    immediately    concerned    with    the 


/\OSKA 


V^_,A*^-" 


children's  conduct.  She  is  frankly  anxious,  fussy  and  occupied.  The  orchestra 
is  about  to  begin,  and  in  the  middle  of  the  room  a  little  helpless  ring  of  very 
tiny  children,  infants,  begins  to  walk  gravely  round  and  round  ;  the  tiny  people 
hold  one  another's  hands,  wonderingly,  and  toddle  along  with  their  heads 
looking    over    their    shoulders,    all    in    opposite    directions.      The    dance    has 


92 


THE   SAVOY 


begun  :  it  is  the  Moska,  with  its  funny  rhythm,  its  double  stamp  of  the 
heels.  Some  of  the  children  dance  charmingly,  with  a  pretty  exactness  in 
the  trip  and  turn  of  the  toes,  the  fling  of  the  leg.  There  are  adorable  frocks, 
marvellous  faces.  They  turn,  turn,  stop  short,  stamp  their  heels  and  turn 
again.  The  whole  thing  is  so  gay  and  simple  and  artificial,  these  little,  got-up 
people  who  are  playing  at  being  their  elders.  It  is  so  pretty  altogether  and 
so  exciting,  that  I  could  watch  it  for  hours.  Nothing  is  more  exciting  than 
to  see  children  masquerading.  I  am  always  disposed  to  take  them,  as  they 
would  be  taken,  very  seriously,  to  think  of  them  almost  as  of  men  and  women. 
As  if  they  were  not  so  far  more  attractive  than  any  possible  men  and  women  ! 
I  hate  to  think  of  those  long,  thin  legs  getting  stouter,  and  being  covered  up 
in  skirts  ;  of  all  that  floating  hair  being  twisted  up  into  coils  and  bundled 
together  obscurely  at  the  back  of  the  head.  I  can  see  the  elder  sisters  of 
these  enchanting  little  absurdities  standing  beside  me  at  the  door.  How 
uninteresting  they  are.  how  little  they  invite  the  wandering  of  even  the 
vaguest    emotion ! 

IV 

But  all  Dieppe  is  not  to  be  seen  at  the  Casino,  and,  perhaps,  not  the 
most  intimate  part  of  Dieppe.  I  had  the  good  fortune  to  live  in  the  very 
heart  of  the  town,  just  outside  the  principal  doorway  of  the  Eglise  Saint- 
Jacques.  I  have  never  in  my  live  had  a  more  genuine,  and,  in  its  way, 
profound  sensation  than  my  daily  and  nightly  view  of  that  adorable  old 
church,  a  somewhat  flamboyant  Gothic,  certainly,  which  I  grew  to  love  and 
wonder  at  with  an  intimacy  that  was  entirely  new  to  me.  To  look  out  last 
thing  at  night,  before  getting  into  bed,  and  see  the  grey  stone  flowering 
there  before  me,  rising  up  into  the  stars  as  if  at  home  there,  and  so  full 
of  solid  shadow  about  its  base,  broadly  planted  on  the  solid  earth  ;  to  rise 
in  the  morning  and  look  out  on  the  same  grey  mass,  white  in  parts,  and 
warm  in  the  early  sunlight  ;  there  never  was  a  decor  which  pleased  me  so 
much,  which  put  so  many  dreams  into  my  head.  Every  Gothic  church  is 
a  nest  of  dreams,  and  the  least  religiously  -  minded  of  men  has  his  moments 
of  devotion,  of  spiritual  exaltation,  before  so  delicate  and  so  enduring  a  work 


DIEPPE  :     189  >  93 

of  men's  hands  in  praise  of  God.  Sight  and  thought  are  lost  in  it ;  one 
feels  its  immensity  as  one  feels  the  immensity  of  the  sea.  And  it  was  as 
dear  to  me  as  the  sea  itself,  this  church  of  the  patron  saint  of  fishermen, 
who  leans  upon  his  staff,  a  sensual  Jewish  person  with  fleshy  lips  and 
a  smile  which  is  somewhat  sneering,  in  the  arch  of  the  doorway. 
During  the  first  part  of  my  stay,  the  fineness,  the  supremacy,  the  air  of 
eternity  of  the  church,  were  curiously  accentuated  by  a  horrid  little  fair 
which  installed  itself  at  the  church's  very  base,  in  every  corner  of  the  many- 
cornered  ground  about  it.  All  day  long,  into  the  late  evening,  the  wooden 
horses  went  swaying  round  to  the  noise  of  two  or  three  tunes  which  dinned 
themselves  into  one's  brain  ;  a  transformation  show  of  Joan  of  Arc,  just 
below  my  window,  had  a  drum  and  a  cornet  at  the  door,  an  advertisement 
I  could  well  have  spared  of  the  little,  proud  girl  who  stood  outside,  so 
seriously,  in  her  pink  tights,  her  tin  helmet  and  breast-plate.  A  peep-show, 
a  few  steps  further  on,  in  which  you  saw  the  murder  of  M.  Carnot  and  the 
degradation  of  M.  Dreyfus,  had  a  piano,  which  was  played  with  diligence. 
Shots  were  fired  all  day  long  in  the  "  Tir  des  Salons,"  which  stood  just  this 
side  of  the  "  Theatre  Moderne,"  which  had  a  small  band.  Then,  all  around, 
clinging  still  closer  to  the  skirts  of  the  church,  were  caravans  and  tents,  in 
which  all  these  motley  people  lived  and  slept  and  did  their  cooking.  They 
swarmed  about  it  like  a  crowd  of  insects,  throwing  up  their  little  mounds 
in  the  earth ;  and  the  church  rose  calmly,  undisturbed,  almost  unconscious 
of  the  very  existence  of  the  swarm,  as  the  Eternal  Church  rises  out  of  the 
agitations  and  feverish  coming -and -going  of  the  world  and  the  fashions  of 
the  world. 

The  fair  was  horrid,  an  oppression,  a  nightmare;  it  kept  me  from  work, 
from  sleep,  from  the  decent  charity  we  owe  our  fellow  mortals ;  I  could  not 
hear  myself  talk ;  but  as  there  is  no  experience  in  the  world  which  has 
not  its  contribution,  if  we  choose  to  take  it,  to  our  sense  of  the  agreeable, 
I  managed  to  snatch  a  few  amusing  sensations  out  of  even  this  discomfort. 
I  had  my  own  little  romance  in  the  fair,  the  most  trifling,  the  most  absurd 
of    little    romances    that    ever  was.     Still  !     One  evening  I  chanced   to  go  into 


q+  THE   SAVOY 

one  of  the  shooting-galleries,  the  "  Tir  des  Salons"  it  was  ceremoniously 
called,  in  company  with  one  or  two  idle  friends,  and  as  I  fired,  fruitlessly 
enough,  at  the  dancing  bubbles  on  the  fountain,  I  noticed  that  the  girl  who 
loaded  my  musket  for  me  was  a  little,  blonde  person  with  dancing  blue 
eyes,  frizzly  golden  hair,  a  cheeky  little  nose,  which  was  cheeky  and  yet 
exquisite,  and  a  perfectly  golden  complexion.  She  was  about  fifteen  years 
of  age :  I  like  youth.  We  chatted  and  laughed  together  a  good  deal,  and 
I  stayed  longer  in  the  "Tir"  than  I  had  intended.  From  that  time  I  could 
never  pass  the  door  (which  I  was  obliged  to  do  several  times  a  day)  without 
my  little  friend  rushing  forward,  all  smiles,  clapping  her  hands  to  me,  or 
dancing  up  and  down  on  both  feet :  I  spent  no  more  money  there,  so  her 
liking  for  me  was  scarcely  interested.  Occasionally  I  would  stop  and  chat, 
if  she  were  alone  in  the  place ;  but  a  mother  would  generally  appear 
somewhere  in  the  dark  at  the  back,  call  to  her  in  a  harsh  voice,  and  she 
would  have  to  leave  me,  with  a  little  piteous  grimace.  She  liked  to  look 
at  my  books  and  papers,  and  would  not  shake  hands  if  her  hands  seemed  to 
her  too  dirty.  One  day,  as  I  was  looking  out  of  my  window,  I  saw  her 
little  face  at  the  tiny  window  of  one  of  the  caravans  down  below ;  it  was 
the  living  -  waggon  of  the  family :  and  sometimes  she  used  to  sit  on  the 
doorstep  mending  her  stockings,  and  she  would  wave  the  stockings  gaily  to 
me  in  the  air  as  I  sat  at  my  window  writing.  I  liked  to  look  out  and  see 
her  there ;    it   was  a  sort  of  company. 

One  morning  I  woke  up  to  find  that  the  peep-show  was  taking  down 
its  boards :  the  fair,  at  last,  was  really  going  away.  I  can  never  see  the 
preparations  for  even  the  most  welcome  moving  without  a  certain  sadness ; 
but  never  had  any  moving  been  so  welcome  to  me.  I  was  no  longer  to  hear 
those  three  tunes,  the  waltz,  the  "  Gardes  Municipaux,"  and  "  Daisy  Bell." 
I  should  be  able  to  sleep,  to  write,  to  hear  myself  talk.  And  I  heaved  a 
sigh  of  relief. 

And  then,  with  a  smile,  I  almost  sighed  as  I  saw  the  little  hand  of  the 
girl  at  the  "Tir"  waving  to  me  from  the  door  of  her  caravan.  I  was  really 
sincerely    sorry  that    my   little    friend    was    going    away.     I    thought    of   going 


DIEPPE  :     1895  95 

downstairs  to  say  good-bye  to  her,  to  tell  her  I  was  sorry  she  was  going ; 
but  I  was  sure  she  would  know  that,  and,  besides,  was  it  worth  the  trouble? 
So  I  nodded,  and  went  on  with  my  dressing. 

When  I  came  back  to  my  room  that  afternoon  her  little  show  was  still 
standing;  it  was  the  last  one  left.  All  the  afternoon  I  sat  at  my  window 
writing,  and  whenever  I  glanced  down  below  the  little  yellow  person  was 
smiling  up  at  me,  with  some  pretty  little  gesture,  in  the  midst  of  her  work. 
She  worked  very  hard,  carrying  about  heavy  beams  and  mattresses  and  all 
kinds  of  domestic  and  professional  objects.  When  all  the  packing  was 
finished,  the  old  grandfather  came  and  sat  down  in  his  chair  in  the  middle 
of  the  road,  put  on  his  spectacles,  and  began  to  read  his  newspaper.  The 
whole  family  grouped  itself  elegantly  about  the  caravan,  and  my  little  person 
perched  herself  on  the  doorstep  in  the  old  way,  and  once  more  began  to 
mend  her  stockings.  She  was  very  tired,  very  glad  to  have  finished  her 
heavy  work  ;  and  when  I  looked  down  she  would  wave  her  stockings  to  me 
(if  no  one  was  looking)  with  that  gay  little  air  which  pleased  me  so  much. 
I  held  up  the  sheet  on  which  I  had  been  writing  verses.  She  danced  up  and 
down,  and  beckoned  to  me  to  give  it  to  her.  I  shook  my  head  and  went  on 
writing. 

That  was  the  last  I  saw  of  her.  The  next  morning  I  awoke  suddenly  with 
a  start  and,  without  quite  knowing  why,  sprang  out  of  bed  and  rushed  to 
the  window.  The  noise  of  heavy  wheels  had  awakened  me,  and  I  was  just  in 
time  to  see  the  hindward  half  of  my  little  friend's  caravan  heave  slowly 
round  the  corner.  I  fancied  her  looking  up  at  my  empty  window,  waving 
her  hand  for  the  last  time,  wishing  I  would  wake  up  and  look  out  and 
say  good-bye  to  her.  I  would  have  given  so  much  to  have  been  there 
at  the  window  just  five  minutes  earlier.  It  would  have  pleased  her,  the 
gay  little  person  whose  name  I  never  knew,  my  little  friend,  whom  I 
liked    because    she    liked    me. 


96  THE   SAVOY 

VI 

Very  characteristic  of  Dieppe,  I  thought,  and  certainly  quite  unlike 
anything  you  can  see  in  England,  is  the  aspect  of  the  Place  Nationale  on 
a  market-day,  with  its  statue  of  Duquesne,  so  brilliant  and  vivid  in  his 
great,  flapping  hat,  standing  there  in  the  middle ;  it  reminded  me  somewhat 
of  the  Good-Friday  fair  at  Venice,  which  is  held  round  the  Goldoni  statue 
.near  the  Rialto.  But  the  colours,  despite  the  strong  sunlight,  are  far  from 
Venetian.  At  the  cathedral  end  of  the  square  are  the  butchers ;  then  come 
the  vegetables,  splashes  of  somewhat  tawdry  green,  all  over  the  ground,  and 
up  and  down  the  stalls.  The  vegetables  reach  nearly  as  far  as  the  statue ; 
just  this  side  of  it  begin  the  clothes  and  commodities,  which  give  its  fair-like 
air  to  the  market.  Stalls  alternate  with  ground-plots,  all  alike  covered  with 
cheap  trousers,  flannel  shirts,  heavy  boots  and  carpet  shoes,  braces,  foulards, 
handkerchiefs,  stays,  bright  ribbons,  veils,  balls  of  worsted,  shoe-laces,  and, 
above  all,  dress-pieces  of  every  sort  of  common  and  trumpery  pattern.  The 
women  stop,  handle  them,  draw  them  out,  and  the  saleswoman  waits  with  a 
long  pair  of  scissors  in  her  hand  to  cut  off  a  slice  here,  a  slice  there.  One 
dainty  little  covered  stall  has  nothing  but  white  Norman  caps,  laid  in  rows 
and  hung  in  rows,  one  after  another.  White-capped  old  peasant-women  stop 
in  front  of  it,  compare  the  frilling  with  their  own,  and  try  to  make  a  bargain 
out  of  a  sou.  Not  far  off  is  an  open  and  upturned  umbrella  full  of  white 
babies'  caps  and  stomachers.  A  dazzling  collection  of  tin  spoons  and  gilt 
studs  lies  on  the  ground  beside  it,  and  the  proprietors  squat  on  their  heels 
close  by.  After  the  clothes  comes  a  little  assemblage  of  baskets,  brushes, 
and  tin-pails  and  saucepans,  dazzlingly  white  in  the  sun.  Then  come  the 
poultry,  crates  and  baskets  of  dead  and  living  fowls  and  ducks  and  geese, 
with  a  few  outside  specimens  ;  and  then,  as  we  reach  the  street,  where 
the  market  flows  all  the  way  up  and  down,  from  the  quay  to  the  Cafe  des 
Tribunaux,  we  have  the  fruit  and  flowers  ;  the  fruit  all  in  pale  yellows, 
with  the  vivid  red  of  tomatoes ;  the  flowers  mainly  white  and  red,  with  a 
row  of  small  palms  along  the  pavement.  And  as  one  follows  the  crowded 
alleys    between    the    stalls    one    elbows    against    slow,    staring    country-people, 


DIEPPE  :    1895  97 

the  blither  natives  of  the  town,  the  well-dressed  visitors,  and  now  and 
again  a  little  lounging  line  of  sailors  or  fishermen  in  their  sea  -  stained 
dral>    or    brown. 

The  second-hand  section  of  the  market  is  strewn  all  around  the 
cathedral,  mainly  about  its  front,  and  along  the  Rue  de  l'Oranger.  Looking 
down  from  my  window  facing  the  portal,  the  whole  ground  seems  carpeted 
with  old  clothes,  so  old,  so  dirty,  so  discoloured,  that  one  wonders  equally 
how  they  could  have  got  there,  and  how  those  who  have  brought  them 
i  .m  possibly  imagine  that  they  will  ever  iind  purchasers.  There  are  coats 
and  trousers,  petticoats  and  bodices,  stockings,  bed-covers,  and  even  mattresses 
(once  a  whole  four-poster  was  placed  on  the  pavement,  which  it  completely 
rilled,  just  outside  my  door);  everything  that  can  be  folded  is  folded  neatly, 
with  a  great  economy  of  space ;  and  at  intervals  are  collections  of  boots  laid 
.lion','  side  by  side,  eccentricities  of  rusty  iron,  which  always  look  so  amusing 
and  so  useless ;  old  books,  prints,  frames,  vases,  tall  hats,  lamps,  clocks 
under  glass  cases,  crockery  and  concertinas.  There  is  a  collection  of  earthen- 
ware, which  is  new ;  some  tea-pots,  ribbons  and  tin  pans  are  also  new. 
Keyond,  where  the  Rue  Ste.  Catherine  narrows  back  to  the  arcade  at  the  side 
of  the  church,  the  market-carts  are  laid  in  rows,  resting  on  their  shafts.  Few- 
people  pass.  I  have  never  actually  seen  anything  bought,  though  I  would 
not   take  upon   myself  to  say  that  it   never  happens. 

VII 

The  most  absolutely  romantic  spot  in  Dieppe,  a  spot  more  absolutely 
romantic  to  its  square  inch  than  anything  I  ever  saw,  is  the  little  curiosity- 
shop  in  the  Rue  de  la  Barre.  You  look  in  through  a  long  sort  of  covered 
alley,  lined  on  both  sides  with  old  tables,  and  mirrors,  and  bookshelves,  and 
huge  wooden  effigies  of  saints,  and  plaster  casts,  and  scraps  of  modern  car- 
pentry, and  you  see  at  the  farther  end  what  looks  like  a  garden  of  antiquities, 
in  which  all  the  oddities  of  the  earth  seem  to  be  growing  up  out  of  trees  and 
clinging  on  to  vines,  tier  above  tier.  You  go  in  a  little  way,  and  you  see, 
fust,   an    uppei    iIihii    facing   you,  all   the  front  covered  with  glass,   in    which  arc 

7—2 


98  THE   SAVOY 

laid  out  the  most  precious  items,  the  inlaid  tables,  the  Empire  clocks,  the 
Louis  XV.  chairs.  You  go  in  a  little  further  still,  and  you  find  yourself  in 
the  garden  of  antiquities,  which  is  even  more  fantastic  and  impossible  than 
its  first  aspect  had  intimated.  It  fills  the  square  of  a  little  court,  round  which 
curls  a  very  old  house  trailed  over  with  vines  and  creepers  :  a  house  all 
windows  and  doors,  one  of  the  doors  opening  on  a  spiral  stone  staircase  like 
the  staircase  of  a  tower.  At  the  further  end  there  is  a  glass  covering,  like 
an  unfinished  conservatory ;  creepers  stretch  across  underneath  the  glass, 
and,  in  a  huge  mound,  piled  quite  up  to  the  creepers  so  that  they  are 
covered  with  its  dust,  I  know  not  what  astonishing  brie  -  a  -  brae,  a  mound 
which  fills  the  whole  centre  of  the  court.  There  are  chairs  and  tables, 
beds,  bundles,  chests,  pictures  in  frames,  all  sorts  of  iron  things,  and, 
very  conspicuously,  two  battered  wooden  representations  of  the  flames  of 
hell  (as  I  imagine),  the  red  paint  much  worn  from  their  artichoke  -  like 
shoots.  All  around  the  walls,  wherever  there  is  room  for  a  nail  between 
a  window  and  a  vine-branch,  something  is  hung,  plaster  bas-reliefs  and  masks, 
Louis  XVI.  mirrors,  lanterns,  Japanese  prints,  arm-chairs  without  seats  ; 
frankly,  an  incredible  rigmarole.  I  saw  few  desirable  objects,  but  the  charm 
of  the  whole  place,  its  unaccountability,  its  absurd  and  delightful  romanticism, 
made  up  in  themselves  a  picture  which  hardly  needed  to  be  painted,  it  was 
so  obviously  a   picture  already. 

VIII 

One  of  the  most  characteristic  corners  of  Dieppe  lies  in  the  unfashion- 
able end  of  the  town,  the  fisher  quarter  by  the  harbour,  where  the  boats 
come  in  from  Newhaven.  Where  the  basin  narrows  to  a  close  passage,  just 
before  you  are  past  the  pier,  and  in  the  open  sea,  there  are  two  crucifixes, 
one  on  either  side,  guarding  Dieppe.  The  boats  lie  all  along  the  quay,  their 
masts  motionless  above  the  water,  and  it  is  along  the  quay  that  the  train  from 
Paris  comes  crawling  in  its  odd  passage  through  the  town  ;  a  curious 
spectacle,  as  one  sits  at  the  cafe  under  the  arcade.  Arcades,  reminding  one 
of  Padua,  run  along  the  townward  side  of  the  quay  ;  they  are  stocked  with 
cheap  restaurants,  most  with  tiny  balconies  on   the   first  floor,  just  under  the 


DIEPPE:    1895 

roof  of  the  arcades,  and  all  with  spread  tables  in  the  passage-way  itself; 
waiters  and  women  stroll  up  and  down  continually,  touting  for  customers. 
From  one  of  the  little  balconies  you  can  look  across  the  fish-market,  beyond 
the  masts,  across  the  water,  to  the  green  hill  opposite,  with  its  votive  church 
on  the  summit.  The  picture  is  framed  in  the  oval  of  one  of  the  arches,  and 
it  looks  curiously  theatrical,  and  charmingly  so,  over  the  heads  of  the  fisher- 
people  and  townsfolk  who  throng  below.  The  crier  passes,  beating  his  drum  ; 
sometimes,  about  dinner-time,  a  company  of  strolling  musicians,  a  harpist,  his 
wife  and  daughter  who  play  violins — the  little  one  with  an  air  of  professional 
distinction — linger  outside  one  of  the  cafes.  Along  the  quay,  which  stretches 
out  towards  the  pier,  is  a  broken  line  of  old,  many-coloured  houses  ;  there 
are  endless  little  restaurants,  hotels,  and  cafes,  meant  mainly  for  the  sailors, 
and  two  cafes  concerts  of  the  seaside  sort,  with  a  piano  (the  pianist  in  one  of 
them  has  been  an  organist  in  Paris ;  drinks,  of  course,  and  reproaches 
destiny),  the  usual  platform,  and  the  usual  enormous  women,  hoarse,  strident, 
and  dccolletces,  who  collect  your  pennies  in  a  shell  after  every  song.  There 
is  a  night  cafe,  too,  on  the  quay,  which  you  can  enter  at  any  hour  ;  you  tap 
on  the  glass  door,  a  curtain  is  drawn  back,  and,  if  you  are  not  an  agent,  you 
will  have  no  difficulty  in  entering.  An  agent,  when  he  makes  his  tour  of 
inspection,  has  sometimes  to  wait  a  little,  while  a  pack  of  drinkers  is  hurriedly 
bundled  out  at  the  back  door.  M.  Jean's  licence  appears  to  be  somewhat 
vague  ;  the  report  that  an  agent  is  at  the  door  causes  a  charming  little  thrill 
of  excitement  among  his  customers.  Some  of  his  customers,  who  are  fisher- 
men, I  do  not  altogether  like  ;  their  friendliness  was  a  little  boisterous  ;  and, 
sometimes,  when  they  lost  their  temper,  M.  Jean  would  knock  them  down, 
and  roll  them,  quite  roughly,  out  of  the  door.  On  the  other  side  of  the 
water,  on  the  Pollet,  as  it  is  called,  you  find  the  real  home  of  the  fisher- 
men, in  those  little  battered  houses,  twisting  around  all  sorts  of  odd  corners, 
climbing  up  all  sorts  of  odd  heights,  some  of  them  with  wooden  beams  along 
the  front,  all  dirty  with  age,  all  open  to  the  street,  all  with  swarms  of 
draggled,  blue-eyed,  gold-haired  children  playing  around  their  doors.  In  a 
few    corners    one    sees   -women    making    nets,    once    quite    an    industry,    now 


ioo  THE   SAVOY 

fallen   into   some   disuse.       The    whole    place  is    thick    with    dust,    faded    with 

years,   shrivelled    with   poverty ;    it    is   a  part  of    Dieppe    which    is   among  the 

most    curious,    among    the    most    picturesque,  but    scarcely    among    the    most 
charming. 

IX 

The  charm  of  Dieppe!  No,  I  can  never  give  the  real  sense  of  that 
charm  to  anyone  who  has  never  experienced  it ;  for  myself,  it  is  not  even  easy 
to  realise  all  the  elements  which  have  gone  to  make  up  the  happiness  of 
these  two  summer  months  here.  It  always  rests  me,  in  body  and  mind, 
to  be  near  the  sea ;  and  then  Dieppe  is  so  placid  and  indulgent,  lets  you 
have  your  way  with  it,  is  full  of  relief  for  you,  in  old  corners  and  cool 
streets,  warm  and  cool  at  once,  if  you  take  but  five  steps  from  the  Rue 
Aguado,  modern  and  fashionable  along  the  sea  front,  dazzling  with  sunlight, 
into  any  one  of  the  little  streets  that  branch  off  from  it  townwards.  And 
if  the  sun  beats  on  you  again  as  you  come  out  into  the  square  about  the 
Eglise  Saint-Jacques  you  have  but  to  go  inside  —  better  still,  if  you  seek 
the  finer  interior  of  Saint-Remy — and,  suddenly,  you  have  the  liquid  coldness 
of  stone  arches  that  have  never  felt  the  sun.  And  then  the  sea,  at  night, 
from  the  jetty ;  the  vast  space  of  water,  fading  mistily  into  the  unseen  limits 
of  the  horizon,  a  boat,  a  sail,  just  distinguishable  in  its  midst,  the  lights 
along  the  shore,  the  glow  of  the  Casino,  with  all  its  windows  golden,  an 
infinite  softness  in  the  air.  I  have  spent  all  night  wandering  about  the 
beach,  I  have  traced  every  change  in  sea  and  sky  from  twilight  to  sunrise, 
inconceivable  delicacies  of  colour,  rarities  of  tone.  And  what  dreams  have 
floated  up  in  the  smoke  of  my  cigarette,  mere  smoke  that  will  never  reach 
the  stars !  What  memories  I  have  evoked,  what  inspiring  conversations 
I  have  had,  in  the  cool  of  the  evening,  on  that  jetty !  And  the  country 
round  Dieppe,  rarely  as  I  went  into  it,  that,  too,  means  something  for  me : 
Puys,  where  I  went  to  see  Alexandre  Dumas,  in  the  house  in  which  his 
father  died,  the  house  where  so  many  of  his  own  plays  have  been  written ; 
Pourville,   the   road    along   the   cliffs,   Varengeville,   with   its    deep,    enchanting 


THEFRAm 


DIEPPE  :     1895  101 

country  lanes,  its  little  sunken  ways  through  the  woods,  its  strange,  stiff 
little  pine  woods  on  the  heights;  the  Manoir  d'Ango,  now  degraded  into 
a  farm,  but  still  with  its  memories  of  Francis  I.  and  Diane  de  Poitiers, 
whose  faces  one  sees,  cheek  by  cheek,  on  a  double  medallion ;  the  Manoir 
d'Ango,  with  its  delicate  approach  through  soft  alleys  of  trees,  and  past  a 
little  shadowed  pool;  Arques,  with  its  Italian  landscape,  so  cunningly 
composed  about  the  ruined  castle  on  the  hill.  There  is  nothing  in  or 
near  Dieppe  which  does  not,  in  one  way  or  another,  appeal  to  me ;  nowhere 
that  I  do  not  feel  at  home.  And  the  friends  I  have  made,  or  found,  or 
fancied,  at  Dieppe,  men  and  women  of  such  varying  charm  and  interest! 
The  most  amiable  soul  in  all  the  world  resides,  I  think,  in  the  Anglo- 
maniac  French  painter  in  whose  chalet  I  spent,  so  agreeably,  so  much  of 
my  time,  in  the  studio  where  he  paints  the  passing  beauties  as  they  fly. 
Was  there  not,  too,  the  hospitable  Norwegian  painter,  with  the  heart  of 
a  child  in  the  body  of  a  giant,  who  lives  with  his  frank  and  friendly  wife 
in  the  villa  on  the  hill,  where  I  spent  so  many  good-tempered  evenings  ? 
And  the  young  English  painter,  who  was  my  chief  companion,  a  temperament 
of  1830,  nc  romaniique,  in  whose  conversation  I  found  the  subtle  super- 
ficialities of  a  profoundly  sensitive  individuality,  it  was  an  education  in 
the  fine  shades  to  be  with  him.  The  other  younger  Englishman,  an  artist 
of  so  different  a  kind,  came  into  our  little  society  with  a  refreshing  and 
troubling  bizarrerie ;  all  that  feverish  brilliance,  the  boyish  defiance  of 
things,  the  frail  and  intense  vitality,  how  amusing  and  uncommon  it  was ! 
And  there  were  the  two  French  poets,  again  so  different  from  one  another ; 
elegant  and  enthusiastic  youth,  and  the  insistent  reflectiveness  of  a  mind 
which  was  above  all  reasoning.  And  then  the  charming  women  one  met 
as  they  flitted  to  and  fro  between  Dieppe  and  Paris  and  London  and 
Monte  Carlo;  in  especial,  that  flashing  vision,  to  whom  I  here  once  more 
render  my  homage :  the  little  French  lady  whose  mother  had  been  one  of 
the  Court  beauties  of  the  Second  Empire ;  the  adorable  profile  dc  moitton, 
with  the  hysterical  piquancy  of  a  mouth,  perfect  in  repose,  which  would 
never    rest,  and    which    could    be    so    exquisitely    fluent    with    naughty    words 


102  THE  SAVOY 

and  the  malice  of  a  truly  feminine  soul.  Heartless,  exquisite,  posing  little 
person^  I  found  you  more  sympathetic  than  you  thought ;  and  if  you  see 
these  lines,  they  are  to  tell  you  that  I  was  really  sorry  when  you  went 
away  so  suddenly  with  your  Russian  grande  dame,  for  whose  talents  I  had 
so  great  an  admiration.  And  there  was  Jane  Hading,  whom  I  went  to 
see  in  the  little,  stifling  dressing-room,  scarcely  more  than  a  cupboard,  of 
the  tiny  theatre,  where  she  was  playing  Dumas'  somewhat  sentimental 
argument  in  drama,  "  La  Princesse  de  Bagdad."  Never  had  I  seen  the 
grave  and  yet  Parisian  beauty  of  the  woman  at  so  amusing  an  advantage, 
as  there,  in  that  absurd  little  dressing-room,  where  I  had  to  squeeze  myself 
into  a  corner,  while  the  actress  stood,  hot  and  impatient,  in  front  of  the 
long  glass,  in  which  from  time  to  time  I  caught  the  charm  of  a  somewhat 
pre-occupied  smile,  as  the  dresser  stitched  and  pinned  the  separate  fragments 
of  a  bodice  which  was  to  be  so  magnificently  torn  off,  with  so  considerable 
a  view  of  such  superb  shoulders,  in  the  fine,  exciting  scene  of  the  second 
act.  And  there  was  the  divine  De  Merode,  with  her  slim,  natural,  and  yet 
artificial  elegance,  her  little,  straight  face,  so  virginal  and  yet  so  aware, 
under  the  Madonna-like  placidity  of  those  smooth  coils  of  hair,  drawn  over 
the  ears  and  curved  along  the  forehead ;  De  Merode,  who,  more  than 
anyone  else,  sums  up  Dieppe  for  me.  How  many  other  beautiful  faces 
there  were,  people  one  never  knew,  and  yet,  meeting  them  at  every 
hour,  at  dinner,  on  the  terrace  of  the  Casino,  at  the  tables,  in  the  sea, 
one  seemed  to  know  them  almost  better  than  one's  friends,  and  to  be  known 
by  them  just  as  well.  Much  of  the  charm  of  life  exists  for  me  in  the 
unspoken  interest  which  forms  a  sort  of  electric  current  between  oneself 
and  strangers.  It  is  a  real  emotion  to  me,  satisfying,  in  a  sense,  for  the 
very  reason  that  it  leaves  one  unsatisfied.  And  of  this  kind  of  emotion, 
Dieppe,  in  the  season,  is  bewilderingly  abundant.  Is  it,  after  all,  surprising 
that  I  should  have  come  to  Dieppe  with  the  intention  of  staying  from 
Saturday    to    Monday,  and    that    I   should   have    stayed   for  two   months  ? 

Arthur    Symons. 


ELLEN 

SHE  had  now  been  a  waitress  at  the  little  cafe  off  Cheapside  for  some- 
thing over  two  years;  her  circumstances  had  not  changed  during  that 
time;  she  herself  had  scarcely  changed;  her  features  had,  perhaps,  developed 
a  little  and  become  more  defined,  her  manner  less  hesitating — and  that  was 
all.  That  was  all,  at  least,  that  was  noticeable.  A  great  change,  however, 
had  occurred  in  her  between  then  and  now  that  was  not  noticeable ;  that 
silent,  miraculous  change,  so  imperceptible,  so  profound,  which  works  in  a 
woman  between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  twenty. 

She  had  come  during  those  two  years  to  have  an  exaggerated,  almost  a 
morbid  idea  of  her  own  want  of  good  looks  ;  she  had  observed  that  regular 
frequenters  of  the  cafe — young  city-clerks,  journalists  and  the  rest — avoided 
the  series  of  marble-topped  tables  at  which  she  served  for  those  which  were 
attended  by  other  girls  smarter  and  prettier ;  she  rarely  received  the  little 
attentions  which  the  other  girls  among  themselves  proclaimed.  It  was  the 
stray  customer,  the  bird  of  passage,  who  kept  her  busy.  But,  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  it  was  not  her  want  of  good  looks  that  kept  the  younger  men  aloof; 
it  was  something  in  her  manner,  an  absence,  perhaps,  of  that  fictitious  spirit 
of  gaiety,  of  that  alert  responsiveness,  which  men  find  so  arresting  in 
women.       Really,  she  was  not  at  all  bad-looking. 

Still,  this  neglect  ate  into  her  heart  a  little.  She  regretted  her  want 
of  adaptability,  of  the  faculty  of  being  able  to  assume  all  those  charming  (as 
they  seemed  to  her)  little  airs  and  graces,  partly  natural,  partly  cultivated, 
which  so  became  the  other  girls  ;  she,  it  is  true,  rather  despised  these 
coquetries  of  her  companions,  but  her  own  deficiencies  of  the  sort  made  her 
feel  at  times  particularly  dull  and  stupid  and  angry  with  herself.  One  or 
two  of   the  girls  at   the  cafe    had,  during  her  time,   married  one  or  two  of  the 


104  THE   SAVOY 

young  men  who  came  there,  and  would  afterwards  pay  an  occasional  visit 
to  the  place,  certainly  in  pretty  frocks,  and,  to  all  appearance,  radiant  and 
happy.  But  these  girls  were  fortunate.  Others,  again,  had  suddenly  dis- 
appeared, and  none  knew  whither ;  but  as  their  disappearance  happened  to 
be  simultaneous  with  a  break  in  the  regular  attendance  of  certain  customers, 
dark  stories  were  whispered  to  which  the  non-appearance  of  the  missing 
ones  seemed  to  lend  colour. 

After  a  while,  Ellen  did  not  mind  so  much  being  neglected  ;  the  smart 
of  the  sting  became  less  and  less  painful,  till  finally,  she  rather,  if  anything, 
preferred  escaping  the  attentions  which  fell  to  the  share  of  the  other  girls. 
This  may  have  been  partly  owing  to  the  view  which  she  came  to  take  of 
men ;  her  position  had  provided  her  with  opportunities  for  arriving  at  a 
generalisation,  and  she  came  to  think  of  men  as  either  silly  or  wicked — silly, 
when  they  were  attracted  by  the  trivial  insincerities  of  the  girls  in  the  cafe; 
wicked,  when  they  took  advantage  of  their  rarer  simplicity.  She  did  not 
conceive,  now,  that  she  would  ever  fall  in  love,  that  anyone  would  ever  fall 
in  love  with  her. 

All  the  same,  as  the  two  years  advanced,  Ellen  began  to  feel  a  curious 
isolation  of  the  heart,  an  emptiness  which  she  never  attributed  to  the  absence 
of  a  lover.  Besides,  she  had  an  intuitive  suspicion  that  she  possessed  qualities 
which  would  be  fatal  to  her  retaining  the  affections  of  a  husband,  that  there 
would  be  little  joy  for  her  in  the  companionship  which  would  place  her  in  the 
position  of  a  wife.  Not  that  she  thought  anything  very  clearly  about  these 
things ;  the  vague  emotions  and  sensations  which  moved  her,  the  detached 
things  which  floated  in  her  mind  had  not  yet  found  the  relief  which  comes 
with  realisation  ;  her  impulses  were  not  remotely  guided  by  self-consciousness. 
A  sense  of  loneliness  oppressed  her,  which  was  not  diminished  by  the  com- 
panionship of  her  fellow  servants  at  the  cafe,  and  she  wanted  companionship 
of  some  sort.  It  was  dreadful  for  her  at  times  to  feel  so  much  alone,  to  feel 
that  there  was  nothing  in  the  world,  in  this  great  London,  which  she  really 
cared  for  ;  that  there  was  no  one,  since  the  death  of  her  father  and  mother, 
who  really  cared  for  her. 


ELLEN  105 

She  had  this  sense  of  loneliness  even  in  the  busiest  time  of  the  day, 
when  an  enormous  wave  of  traffic  swept  by  outside  the  cafe,  and,  inside,  all 
was  stir  and  movement.  Even  amid  all  this  stir  and  din,  when  she  was 
occupied  in  flitting  from  one  tabic  to  another,  in  taking  orders  and  attending 
to  them,  even  at  such  moments  her  thoughts  would  be  playing  to  another 
tune,  her  soul  would  be  filled  with  unrest  and  impatience.  Life,  indeed, 
became  a  great  struggle  for  her.  Sometimes  she  said  to  herself  that  she 
would  run  away — from  she  knew  not  what,  where  she  knew  not  to  ;  and 
sometimes  she  wished   very  sincerely   that   she  were   dead. 

She  had  seen  many  strange  faces  during  those  two  years  ; 
at  last  it  began  to  dawn  upon  her  that  one  of  these  faces  which  had 
been  strange  was  becoming  familiar :  a  face  with  a  fair,  pointed  beard  and 
blue  eyes.  Beyond,  however,  merely  ordering  what  he  wanted,  he  had  not 
spoken  to  her  ;  it  was  improbable  that  he  had  noticed  her  ;  but  his  regular 
attendance  at  the  tables  at  which  she  served  began  to  attract  the  attention 
of  the  other  girls,  who  derived  some  entertainment  from  hinting  to  Ellen 
that  she  was  carrying  on  a  flirtation,  a  suggestion  which  happened  to  be 
sufficiently  inappropriate  to  appeal  to  their  sense  of  humour.  It  was  in 
keeping  with  Ellen's  temperament  that  no  romantic  ideas  entered  her  head 
at  this  point,  where,  possibly,  the  least  susceptible  of  her  companions  would — 
as  women  will — have  woven  a  complete  fabric  of  foolish  sentiment.  Still,  as 
he  continued  to  come  regularly,  she  began  involuntarily  to  feel  a  certain 
liking  for  him  ;  the  fact  of  his  never  attempting  to  enter  into  any  sort  of 
conversation  with  her  had  its  not  unpleasant  side  for  her.  So,  by-and-by, 
they  both  seemed  to  begin  to  know  each  other  in  this  silent  way.  And  yet 
there  came  moments  when  Ellen  felt  somehow  that  she  would  like  to  talk 
to  him,  like  to  tell  him  all  about  herself,  and  what  she  felt.  His  presence 
accentuated  a  dimly-realised  need  for  self-expression,  of  pouring  into  some  ear 
the  flood  of  vague  sentiments  which  possessed  her.  She  could  not  talk  to  the 
other  girls  ;  they  would  not  understand,  or  they  would  laugh  at  her  ;  but  she 
could,  she  felt,  talk  to  this  fair-bearded  man  with  the  blue  eyes.  But  not  at 
the  cafe  ;    she  would  rather  remain  silent  for  ever  than  do  that.     Then,  how  ? 


THE   SAVOY 

This  idea  of  speaking  to  him,  of  sharing  with  him  her  whole  confidence, 
seized  upon  her,  and  developed  with  an  intensity  which  caused  her  ceaseless 
perturbation  and  pain. 

After  a  little  time,  indeed,  they  drifted,  naturally  enough,  into  a  con- 
ventional intercourse,  almost  monosyllabic,  uninteresting,  which  seemed  to 
her  hopelessly  trivial — but  how  to  advance  beyond  it !  Once  or  twice  she 
thought  she  observed  a  look  of  interrogation  in  the  blue  eyes,  a  look  which 
invited  her  confidence,  and,  at  the  same  time,  occasioned  her  a  poignant 
feeling  of  self  -  consciousness — there,  at  the  cafe,  while  meeting  the  significant 
glances,  the  partly  ironical,  partly  suggestive,  glances  of  her  companions. 
No!  she  could  not  speak  to  him  there;  she  had  nothing  to  say  to  him  there. 
Yet  it  was  hard  to  resist  the  appeal  of  his  eyes. 

"You  are  looking  pale.     Do  you  go  out  much?  "    he  said  to  her  one  day. 

"  Xo  ;   only  home  and  back.'" 

"  Ah  !   you  should."' 

"  \\  e  don"t  close  till  seven,"'  she  said.  Then,  their  eyes  meeting,  she 
continued  irresistibly  :    "  Will  you  meet  me  to-night  ?  " 

It  was  not  till  an  hour  or  so  later  that  she  realised  that  she  was  to 
meet  him  that  evening  at  the  principal  entrance  to  St.  Paul's ;  that  she 
realised  that  she  herself  had  made  the  appointment.  She  had  leapt  the 
barrier,  and  was  shocked  at  the  extent  of  her  daring,  a  little  humiliated 
even  ;  yet,  above  everything,  singularly  elated  and  careless.  She  had  never 
breathed   so  freely. 

But  when  they  met,  the  need  for  self-expression  was  no  longer  apparent  ; 
she  only  felt  stupid  and  shy.  He  suggested  that  they  should  go  to  a  theatre 
or  to  an  exhibition  at  Earl's  Court,  but  she  would  not  go  to  either  place. 
Then  they  walked  along  the  Embankment,  between  Blackfriars'  Bridge  and 
Charing  Cross.  He  talked  a  good  deal,  but  she  hardly  caught  or  understood 
what  he  said,  and  was  quietly  irresponsive.  There  was  in  his  manner  an 
air  of  familiarity  which  slightly  repelled  her  ;  she  began  to  wish  that  she  had 
not,  after  all,  asked  him  to  meet  her ;  to  think  of  abruptly  leaving  him.  Once 
he   put   his   arm    through    hers,   and   was    surprised    at    the    startled    expression 


ELLEN 


107 


which  sprang  to  her  face  as  she  quickly  drew  apart  from  him.  After  this 
his  manner  changed,  and  she  felt  more  at  ease.  The  incident  had  defined 
her   attitude. 

Reaching  the  gardens  on  t he  Embankment,  near  Charing  Cross,  they 
entered  a  gate  and  sat  on  one  of  the  seats.  There  were  some  children  playing 
about  "ii  the  path  whose  antics  amused  her,  and  led  her  to  talk  about  her 
own  childhood,  to  tell  him  of  those  dear,  half-forgotten  things  which  everyone 
remembers  so  well,  of  that  dim  world  of  curious  fancies  which  all  of  us  at 
one  time  inhabited.  He  was  sympathetic,  and  they  talked  on  so  in  the  fading 
light  until  it  was  time  for  the  gates  of  the  garden  to  be  closed.  As  they 
passed  through  them,  their  intimacy  had  become  as  natural  and  easy  as  she 
could   have  dared   to   hope. 

They  crossed  the  Strand  and  penetrated  the  maze  of  streets  which  lead 
in  the  direction  of  King's  Cross,  where  she  had  her  lodging.  And  now  all 
the  things  that  had  lain  in  her  mind,  all  the  incoherent  emotions  that  had 
possessed  her,  became  coherent  and  simple,  derived  shape  and  form  in  the 
attempt  to  express  them.  She  told  him  all  about  her  present  life,  about  the 
other  girls  in  the  cafe  and  their  sentimental  episodes.  She  told  him  of  the 
feeling  of  loneliness,  of  abstraction,  of  the  vague  itching  at  her  heart  which 
never  ceased. 

At  last  they  reached  a  house  in  one  of  the  outlying  streets  of  Regent 
Square. 

"  I  don't  know  why  I  asked  you  to  meet  me  to-night,"  she  said, 
stopping  at  the  door  of  this  house  ;  "  I  don't  know  what  is  the  matter 
with  me.  But  1  wanted  to  speak  to  someone.  And  I  couldn't  speak  to 
the  other  girls  ;  they  would  only  have  made  fun  of  me,  I  think.  I  feel 
happier    now    that    I    have    had    a    nice    long    talk    with    someone  —  still  —  there 

is    something — something "      She    paused    a   moment,   and   then    proceeded, 

rather  abruptly  :  "  I  don't  want  to  be  married,  the  same  as  most  girls  do  ; 
I  don't  like  men,  as  a  rule — at  least,  not  in  that  way  .  .  .  besides,  I  think 
I  should  always  be  happier  remaining  as  I  am  at  present,  working  for 
myself,    independent." 


io8  THE   SAVOY 

She  gave  a  little  shriek  of  delight  at  a  thought  which  suddenly  occurred 
to  her,  a  flash  of  mental  illumination,  which  enabled  her  to  divine  the  source 
of  all  her  perplexities,  which  instantly  enabled  her  to  solve  the  problem  of  her 
happiness;  a  thought  which  filled  her  poor,  empty  heart.  "  I  think,"  she 
said,  softly,  "  if  I  had  a  baby,  my  very  own,  I  should  want  nothing — nothing 
in  this  world  more  than  that  !  "  Her  lips  quivered  and  tears  came  into  her 
eyes,    exquisitely    tender   tears. 

She  then   turned  to  the  door  and  opened   it   with   a   latch-key. 

"  Are  you  living  alone  ?  "   he  asked. 

"  Yes,  quite  alone,"  she  said,  retreating  into  the  passage  without 
turning. 

He    followed    her   a    couple  of  paces,   and   then    stood    with   one   foot   on 

the  doorstep.      He  looked  into  the  passage,  but  could  not   make  out   whether 

she    were    standing   there   in    the   dark    or    not.       He    wondered    if    she    were 

standing   there.      Then    taking   the   handle  of  the   door   he   drew  it   gently  to, 

and    went    down    the    street. 

Rudolf    Dircks. 


Yi 


—  v  *r 


S  E  A  -  M  U  S I C 

'   I   '  HP2  voices  of  the  whispering  woods  are  still; 

-*■        No  truant  brook  runs  chattering  to  the  stream  ; 
Like  heaven's  own  likeness,  mirrored  in  a  dream, 
The  sea  coils  round  each  jutting  rock  and  hill. 
Nay,  hark !  what  faint  aerial  harpings  thrill 
The  lonely  bay ;  what  choral  voices  seem 
To  float  around  and  melt  like  rolling  steam 
On  air  as  quiet  as  a   windless  mill. 

No  holy  chant  in  hushed  cathedral  naves 
Had  ever  such  unearthly  harmony, 
As  these  mysterious  chords  ineffable 
That  peal  from  organ-pipes  of  fluted  caves, 
Reverberate  in  hollow  mountain  shell, 
The  music  of  the  everlasting  sea. 

Mathildk   Blind. 


[This  sonnet  is  founded  on  a  singular  experience  I  had  at  Wooda  Bay  in  North 
Devon.  While  leaning  over  the  cliff  I  was  startled  by  hearing  sounds  as  of  harps  and 
violins  blending  with  muffled  organ  notes,  and  human  voices  soaring  above  the  music.  The 
effect  was  magical,  and  must  have  been  due  to  an  echo  produced  by  the  wave-hollowed 
rocks  ] 


A  -GOLDEN    DECADE    IN    ENGLISH    ART 

rT"'HE  most  perfect  English  art  in  black  and  white  was  done  between  the 
*■  years  i860  and  1870.  What  an  absurdity !  of  course ;  for  Blake  was 
absurd,  Alfred  Stevens  ridiculous,  Keene  ignored,  Whistler  a  joke.  And  yet, 
when  the  amateur  tires  of  his  postage-stamp  and  the  young  lady  with  no 
books  wearies  of  her  book-plate,  when  all  the  sham  Bartolozzis  have  been 
shipped  to  America  and  the  Japanese  print  outweighs  the  bank-note,  then 
the  English  illustration  of  i860  may  possibly  be  invented,  and  Art  may  be 
once  again  upon  the  town.  I  use  the  date  i860,  but  I  ask  for  as  much 
latitude  as  one  is  granted  in  speaking  of  the  Romanticists  and  1830,  with 
whom  the  men  of  i860  are  worthy  to  be  ranked. 

No  matter  how  little  we  like  to  acknowledge  it,  many  of  our  luxuries 
and  necessities  come  from  Germany ;  and  it  is  to  Germany  that  one  turns 
for  the  inspiration  of  modern  illustration,  and  to  Adolph  Menzel  as  its 
prophet.  When,  in  the  late  thirties,  Menzel  was  working  on  his  various 
versions  of  "  Frederick  the  Great,"  seeing  the  results  obtained  in  Curmer's 
"  Paul  et  Virginie,"  he  confided  some  of  the  designs  he  had  drawn  upon  the 
wood-block  to  an  Anglo-French  firm  of  wood  engravers,  Andrew  Best  Leloir; 
but  he  was  not  satisfied  with  the  results,  which  may  be  seen  in  the  earlier 
part  of  Kuglers  "Frederick  the  Great";  so  he  trained  his  own  engravers — 
Kreutzchmar,  Bentworth,  Unzelmann,  the  Vogels — and  between  them  they 
produced  those  triumphs  of  German  art  which  gave  the  direct  inspiration  to 
modern  English  illustration.  They  are:  "The  Life  of  Frederick,"  1840: 
"The  Uniforms  of  the  Army  of  Frederick,"  1852,  a  supplement;  "The 
Works  of  Frederick,"  1850;  "The  Heroes  of  War  and  Peace,"  1856. 
These  books,  I  have  been  informed  —  and  I  have  been  told  the  facts  by 
the  artists  and  engravers  and  publishers  themselves  —  did  have  their  effect 
in  the   following   ten    years,  if   they  did   not    produce   a   sensation  in   England 


.-I    GOLDEN    DECADE    IN   ENGLISH   ART  113 

immediately  on  their  appearance  in  Germany,  or  even  on  their  re-publication 
here,  for  "The  Life  of  Frederick  the  Great,"  Kugler's  "  Geschichte  Fried- 
richs  des  Grossen,"  1840,  was  issued  here  by  Bohn  in  1845  as  "A  Pictorial 
History  of  Germany,"  though  the  others  have  never  appeared  in  English 
dress.  The  first  book  which  shows  this  influence  is  William  Allingham's 
"The  Musii  Master,"  1855;  and  1  maintain  that  Rossetti  in  his  drawings — 
that  is,  in  his  method  of  drawing  for  engraving  as  shown  in  this  book —must 
ha\  e  been  inspired  by  Menzel,  for  no  book  like  it  had  been  illustrated  in 
England,  nor  had  similar  illustrations  been  made  previously  in  this  country. 
Rossetti.  Millais  and  Arthur  Hughes  did  the  drawings.  Rossetti  furnished 
the  frontispiece:  "A  youth  listening  in  rapt  mood  to  the  chaunt  of  three 
mystic  women  —  the  maids  of  Elfm  Mere."  Burne  -Jones  then  thought  it 
the  most  beautiful  drawing,  for  an  illustration,  that  he  had  ever  seen.  Yet 
Mr.  W.  M.  Rossetti  says  his  brother  was  highly  dissatisfied,  and  regarded 
the  woodcut  (of  course  it  was  a  wood  engraving)  by  Messrs.  Dalziel  as  a 
decided  travesty  of  his  work.  What  would  he  have  thought  had  it  been  done 
a   little  earlier  ? 

Next  year,  1856,  Samuel  Palmer — who  had  been  following  the  tradition 
of  Blake  and  that  lovely  decorator,  Calvert — illustrated  one  chapter  :  "  The 
Distant  Hills,"  for  Adams's  "Sacred  Allegories,"  with  nine  drawings.  Three 
or  four  of  these  must  rank  with  Turner.  Palmer  has  given  the  effect  of  the 
setting  sun  over  great  landscape  as  no  one  ever  did  before,  as  no  one  has 
attempted   since. 

The  year  1857  is  a  memorable  one — the  year  of  Moxon's  "Tennyson"; 
the  herald  of  Millais'  genius  as  an  illustrator.  The  book  contains  the 
famous  Rossetti  drawings  and  Holman  Hunt's  best  design,  "  The  Lady 
of  Shallot  "  :  but  the  rest  of  the  illustrations  are  weak,  poor,  commonplace. 
The  engravings,  of  which  one  hears  little  that  is  good,  are  by  Dalziel  and 
Linton.  It  is  most  interesting  to  compare  the  engraving  of  "Sir  Galahad" 
— from  the  Rossetti  drawing  done  by  Linton,  which  is  quite  characterless  so 
far  as  the  work  of  Rossetti  goes  (or,  rather,  Lintonesque,  save  in  the  small 
heads,    which    are    very    good)  —  with    the    first    drawing    in    the    "  Palace    of 


n4  THE   SAVOY 

Art,"  by  Dalziel,  also  after  Rossetti,  which  is  brilliant  and  individual  by 
comparison.  Yet  Rossetti  himself,  so  his  brother  says,  preferred  the  Linton 
to  the  Dalziel. 

Mr.  Ruskin  backs  Rossetti,  too,  in  his  denunciation  of  the  engravers  ; 
but  this  is  not  of  much  importance,  as  in  a  few  years,  just  after  the  very 
best  work  had  been  done,  he  attacked  artists  and  engravers  both,  saying  : 
"  Cheap  popular  art  cannot  draw  for  you  beauty,  sense,  honesty  ;  but  every 
species  of  distorted  vice — the  idiot,  the  blackguard,  the  coxcomb,  the  paltry 
fool,  the  degraded  woman — are  pictured  for  your  honourable  pleasure  on  every 
page.  These  are  favourably  representative  of  the  entire  art  industry  of  the 
modern  Press."     This  is  a  criticism  of  these  men  and  these  books. 

In  the  same  year,  a  book,  the  illustrated  edition  of  which  is  quite  un- 
heard of— Willmot's  "Sacred  Poetry" — was  published.  In  this  was  maintained 
an  all-round  standard  of  greater  merit  in  design  and  engraving  even  than  in 
the  "  Tennyson,"  for  among  the  contributors  were  Madox  Brown,  Tenniel, 
Harvey,  Foster,  Arthur  Hughes,  Harding,  Millais  and  Gilbert,  engraved  by 
Dalziel :  there  were  fewer  Academicians,  and  the  men  knew  better  how  to 
draw  on  wood. 

In  1858,  John  Gilbert,  even  then  the  Nestor  of  English  illustration, 
obtained  his  chance,  and  the  magnificent  "  Shakespeare,"  also  engraved  by 
Dalziel,  was  commenced,  and  continued  during  the  two  following  years.  This 
is  Gilbert's  masterpiece,  and  still  remains  the  finest  complete  illustrated  edition 
of  Shakespeare.  It  came  out  in  parts,  and  is  probably  the  first  example, 
among  these  books,  of  the  present  popular  fashion  of  issuing  books  in   parts. 

If  1857  was  notable,  1859  is  destined  to  become  historic,  for  it  marks 
the  starting  of  Once  a  Week,  soon  to  become  synonymous  with  good  illus- 
tration. The  first  volume  is  more  an  array  of  names  than  a  distinguished 
accomplishment.  Millais  did  eight  drawings  for  it,  not  one  of  which  can  be 
compared  with  his  designs  for  the  "Tennyson";  though  he  was  beginning 
that  series  of  studies  of  the  costume  and  furniture  of  the  period,  the  crinoline. 
the  chignon  and  the  what-not,  that  we  now  find  so  amusing.  Harvey  did 
one    drawing,    and    there    are   a   number    by   Phiz,    Leech,   Tenniel,    and    many 


A    GOLDEN    DECADE   IN   ENGLISH     \R1  n5 

crude  things  signed  "  Keene  "  which  are  commonplace.  They  were  all  engraved 
by  Swain,  or,  as  Keene  himself  put  it,  they  fell  before  the  graver  of  Swain. 
After  this,  Keene  appears  continuously,  always  more  and  more  interesting;  but, 
save  for  his  "  Caudle  Lectures,"  1865,  he  is  scarcely  a  book  illustrator.  Yet> 
his   fame   is   secure,    his   position    as   an    illustrator   is   acknowledged. 

I  have  said  already  that  it  is  to  these  books  and  magazines  that  we 
must  turn  for  all  that  is  left  of  the  English  illustration  of  the  sixties ;  for 
this  reason,  the  final  finished  drawings  were  made  on  the  wood-block,  and, 
consequently,  engraved  all  to  pieces;  and,  save  those  wood-blocks,  most  of 
which  have  vanished,  and,  possibly,  some  engravers'  proofs  and  the  prints 
in  the  magazines  and  books  themselves,  there  is  absolutely  nothing  else  left. 
Therefore  the  world,  which  always  wants  what  it  cannot  have,  may  some  day 
understand  how  important  are  these  early  volumes. 

To  the  first  number  of  the  Cornhill,  i860,  Thackeray,  more  or  less 
worked  over  by  ghosts  and  engravers,  contributed  the  illustrations  for  "  Lovel 
the  Widower."  But,  in  the  second  or  third  number,  Millais  was  called  in, 
and  then  G.  A.  Sala,  to  complete  the  work.  Frederick  Sandys  illustrated  the 
"  Legend  of  the  Portent "  ;  this  is,  so  far  as  I  know,  his  first  appearance  as  a 
book  illustrator  ;  the  lithographed  burlesque  of  "  Sir  Isumbras"  is  earlier.  And 
the  volume  ends  with  Millais'  splendid  "  Was  it  not  a  Lie?"  an  illustration  to 
"  Framley  Parsonage."  From  that  time  forward  Millais  gives  character  and 
distinction  to  its  pages.  The  grace  of  the  crinoline,  the  beauty  of  the  frock- 
coat  and  the  top  hat,  the  daintiness  of  the  pantalette,  are  shown  in  every 
number,  while  the  pre-aesthetic  houses  are  full  of  interest.  It  is  curious 
to  note  that  either  Thackeray  or  the  publisher  refused  to  mention  the  names 
of  the  artists  in  any  way.  Millais  and  Sala  alone  signed  their  designs  with 
their  monograms.  Sir  Frederick  Leighton,  1  imagine,  contributed  the  ''Great 
God  Pan"  (signed  "  L.")  in  the  second  volume;  while  his  drawings  for* 
"  Romola  "  were  also  among  the  special  attractions  in  1863.  Richard  Doyle 
began  his  "  Birdseye  Views  of  Society  "  in  the  third  ;  but  it  was  not  until 
more  than  half-way  through  this  volume  that  the  initials  "  F.  W."  appeared 
on     what    were    supposed    to    be    Thackeray's    drawings — or,    rather,    it     was 

«— 2 


n6  THE   SAVOY 

not  until  then  that  the  great  author  acknowledged  his  failure  as  an  illus- 
trator. But  in  one  of  his  "  Roundabout  Papers,"  eventually,  he  admitted 
his  indebtedness  to  Walker  with  the  best  grace  in  the  world.  The  first 
drawing  in  the  Cornhill  signed  by  Walker  —  a  fact  interesting  enough 
to  be  recorded — faces  page  556,  in  the  volume  for  1861  :  it  is  the  "  Nurse 
and    Doctor,"    an  illustration  to  Thackeray's  "  Philip." 

Good  Words  also  was  started  in  i860,  and  attracted  certain  young 
Scotsmen  —  Orchardson,  Pettie,  Graham,  MacWhirter.  Even  Punch  was 
brilliant  then,  and  its  excellence  was  due  to  Du  Maurier  and  Keene  ;  a 
Du    Maurier,    however,    that    one    would   not    recognise   to-day. 

I  do  not  know  of  any  notable  books  in  1861,  though  G.  H.  Bennett's 
magnum  opus,  Quarles'  "  Emblems,"  appeared  in  that  year,  and,  I  believe,  was 
popular.  But  in  1862,  Miss  Rossetti's  "  Poems,"  illustrated  by  her  brother 
with  two  drawings,  came  out  ;  Rossetti  also  designed  the  cover.  The  illustra- 
tions can  hardly  be  called  satisfactory  as  illustrations,  for  the  two  Lizzies  are 
quite  different — the  first,  a  country  girl;  the  second,  a  stately  Rossetti  woman. 
The  second  edition  contains  two  more  drawings,  which  were  added  in  1866. 
William  Morris  engraved  the  frontispiece  to  this  book,  signed  "  M  MF  &  Co." 
The  illustrations  for  these  magazines  and  books  were  done  in  a  curious 
but  very  interesting  way ;  the  entire  work  was  undertaken  by  two  firms, 
Messrs.  Dalziel  and  Swain.  They  commissioned  the  drawings  from  the 
artists,  and  then  engraved  them ;  the  method  seems  to  have  been  so 
successful,  that  the  engravers,  notably  the  Dalziels,  not  only  employed  artists 
to  make  drawings  and  then  engraved  the  blocks  themselves,  but  became  their 
own  printers  as  well.  It  was  in  this  manner  that  they  produced  the  books 
which  are  bound  to  become  the  admiration  and  despair  of  the  intelligent  and 
artistic  collector.  When  the  books  were  printed  they  were  sold  to  a  publisher, 
who  merely  put  his  imprint  on  them  ;  but  to  this  day  they  are  known  as 
"  Dalziel's  Illustrated  Editions,"  that  is,  when  they  are  known  at  all.  The  first 
important  book  of  the  series  which  I  have  seen  is  Birket  Foster's  "  Pictures 
of  English  Landscape,"  1863  (Routledge),  printed  by  Dalziel,  with  "  Pictures 
in  Words,"   by  Tom  Taylor.      The  binding  is  atrocious ;    the  paper  is  spotting 


I    GOLDEN   DECADE    IN    ENGLISH    ART  117 

and  losing  colour  ;  but  the  drawings  must  have  been  exquisite,  and  here  and 
there  the  ink  is  spreading  and  giving  a  lovely  tone,  like  that  of  an  etching,  to 
the  prints  on  the  pages.  This  autumn  it  was  revived,  by  Nimmo,  with  literary 
selections  by  Mr.  John  Davidson  ;  of  course  there  is  no  mention  of  the  fact 
that  the  engravings  were  made  thirty-two  years  ago.  In  the  same  year, 
F.  Shields  did  a  shilling  edition  of  Defoe's  "Plague,"  containing  six  drawings, 
engraved  by  Swain  and  Moreton  ;  this  must  be  one  of  the  earliest  of  illus- 
trated shilling  publications  ;  it  contains  Mr.  Shield's  best  designs.  The 
dead-pit,  into  w'hich,  by  the  flaring  light  of  torches,  the  bodies  are  being 
shot   from  a   cart,   is   like    Rembrandt    in   its   power. 

In  1S64,  Messrs.  Dalziel,  who  had  already  in  the  previous  year  engraved 
the  designs  for  Good  Words,  published  in  a  volume  Millais'  "  Parables  of  Our 
Lord,"  through  Routledge.  This  book,  issued  in  an  atrocious  binding 
described  as  elaborate  (and  it  truly  is),  bound  up  so  badly  that  it  has  broken 
all  to  pieces,  and  printed  with  a  text  in  red  and  black,  contains  much  of 
the  strongest  work  Millais  ever  did.  Nothing  could  excel  in  dramatic 
power,  or  in  effect  of  light,  "  The  Enemy  Sowing  Tares,"  and  the  "  Lost 
Piece  of  Silver,"  or  in  beauty  of  line  or  realistic  treatment  of  the  foreground, 
"  The  Sower," — to  mention  but  three  blocks  where  so  many  are  so  good.  The 
whole  book  is  excellent,  and  is  now  excessively  rare  in  its  first  edition.  In 
this  year  also,  W.  J.  Linton  illustrated  Mrs.  Lynn  Linton's  "Lake  Country" 
(Smith,  Elder  &  Co.),  drawing  and  engraving  the  pictures ;  it  is  a  curious 
book,  and  exemplifies,  I  suppose,  Mr.  Linton's  methods ;  of  which  I  may  say, 
I  had  rather  he  engraved  his  own  designs  than  mine. 

But  1865  is  the  most  notable  year  of  all.  To  it  belongs  Dalziel's 
illustrated  "  Arabian  Nights'  Entertainments,"  originally  published  in  parts, 
and,  later,  in  two  volumes,  with  text  and  pictures  enclosed  in  horrid 
borders  (Ward  &  Lock).  In  this  book,  A.  Boyd  Houghton  first  showed 
what  a  really  great  man  he  was.  He  clearly  proved  himself  a  master  in 
technique  as  well  as  in  imagination,  and,  although  he  had  as  fellow  illus- 
trators Sir  J.  E.  Millais,  J.  D.  Watson,  Sir  John  Tenniel,  G.  J.  Pinwell 
and    Thomas     Dalziel,    Houghton    towers    above    them    all.       Mr.    Lawrence 


1 18  THE   SAVOY 

Housman,  in  an  able  article  on  him  in  Bibliographica,  well  says :  "  Among 
artists  and  those  who  care  at  all  deeply  for  the  great  things  of  Art,  he  cannot 
be  forgotten  ;  for  them,  his  work  is  too  much  an  influence  and  a  problem  ;  and 
though,  officially,  the  Academy  shuts  its  mouth  at  him  ....  certain  of 
its  leading  lights  have  been  heard  unofficially  to  declare  '  that  he  was  the 
greatest  artist  who  has  appeared  in  England  in  black  and  white.'  Technically, 
his  work,  always  in  line,  with  a  brush  or  pencil,  is  most  simple  and  powerful ; 
the  values  of  white  asserted  by  the  yard.  Broad  white  upon  black,  black 
upon  broad  white  ;  yet  there  is  searching  draughtsmanship,  marvels  of  subtle 
modelling,  and  always  the  strange  realism  that  gives  rags  their  squalor,  limbs 
the  hairiness  of  life." 

In  1865,  also,  Houghton's  "Home  Thoughts  and  Home  Scenes"  was 
published  by  Routledge.  It  is  much  less  imaginative  than  his  later  work, 
but  contains,  perhaps,  more  that  is  beautiful,  studies  of  child-life,  charm- 
ingly seen,  beautifully  drawn.  After  this,  he  worked  prodigiously,  and  yet 
excellently.  His  edition  of  "  Don  Quixote "  (Warne),  as  a  whole  rather 
over  rated,  yet  fine  in  parts,  must  be  sought  for  now  in  the  most  out-of-the- 
way  places.  Very  Spanish  in  character  is  the  frontispiece ;  and  his  rendering 
of  local  colour  in  his  books  is  all  the  more  remarkable  since  I  have  heard  he 
never  was  in  Spain  or  the  East.  Easier  to  find  are  his  "  Kriloff's  Fables," 
slight  sketches .  published  by  Strahan  in  1869.  Best  known  of  all  are  his 
drawings  in  the  early  numbers  of  the  Graphic — the  American  series — which 
were  not  all  published,  1  think,  before  he  died.  If  some  of  them  are 
grotesque,  almost  even  to  caricature,  they  are  amazingly  powerful ;  and, 
being  the  largest  engraved  works  left,  show  him,  fortunately,  at  his  best. 
His  original  drawings  scarcely  exist  at  all ;  they  were  nearly  all  done  on  the 
wood ;  and  though,  at  times,  he  made  several  versions  of  each,  he  seems  to 
have  destroyed  all  except  the  one  that  pleased  him,  and  this  disappeared  in 
the  engraving. 

Another  event  was  the  publication  of  Ward  &  Lock's  edition  of  Gold- 
smith, in  which  G.  J.  Pinwell  revealed  his  marvellous  powers  ;  but  Pinwell's 
most  important  work  is  for  a  late  date. 


.-1    GOLDEN    DECADE    IS    ENGLISH    AR1 


119 


In  1S65,  there  must  have  been  almost  as  many  good  illustrated  magazines 
published  in  England  alone  as  there  are  to-day  in  the  whole  world.  Besides 
Good  Words,  the  Cornhill,  and  Once  a  Week,  there  were  London  Society,  the 
Shilling  Magazine,  the  Argosy,  and  the  Quiver.  The  uniform  edition  of  Dickens 
was  also  being  issued  ;  illustrated  by  C.  Green,  Luke  Fildes,  Marcus  Stone, 
J.   Mahoney  and  F.   Barnard. 


F.  Sandys  is,  in  imaginative  power,  the  greatest  of  all  these  artists ; 
in  technique  he  is  the  legitimate  successor  of  Durer,  in  popularity  he  is  a 
hopeless  failure.  He  has  never  illustrated  a  book :  so  far  as  I  know,  ho 
made  but  few  drawings  specially  for  books :  these  few  are  contained  in 
Willmot's  "Sacred  Poetry,"  1863,  "Life's  Journey.''  the  "Little  Mourner." 
and   Dalziel's  "  Bible  Gallerv." 


A    GOLDEN    DECADE   IN   ENGLISH   ART 


In  1 86 1,  a  number  of  his  drawings  were  printed  in  Once  a  Week— 
"Yet  once  more  let  the  Organ  play,"  "Three  Statues  of  JEgina,"  and  others.  In 
every  one  is  seen  the  hand  of  the  man  able  to  carry  on  the  tradition  of 
Durer,   and   yet   bring   it    into    line    with    modern    methods.      So   far   as    I    am 


aware,  Ruskin  never  mentions  him ;  how  far  this  was  owing  to  the  famous 
Sir  Isumbras  caricature,  "  The  Nightmare,"  I  do  not  know.  All  the  spirit 
of  early  German  art  breathes  through  his  drawings.  But  it  is  during  the 
next    year,    1862,    that    Sandys,    becoming   accustomed   to   the  wood-block,    did 


122  THE   SAVOY 

some  of  his  most  powerful  work  —  "The  Old  Chartist,"  "Harold,"  and 
"King  Warwulf,"  in  Once  a  Week.  In  "The  Old  Chartist"  there  is  the  real 
Durer  feeling  in  the  distant  landscape,  but  the  trees  are  better  than  Durer's 
trees,  and  the  figure  is  one  that  Sandys  has  seen  for  himself.  But  in  all 
his  work  there  is  this  evidence  of  things  seen  and  studied.  1862  was  his 
most  productive  year;  in  1863  there  are  but  four  drawings;  none  in  1864;  in 
1865,  a  magnificent  "Amor  Mundi,"  for  Miss  Rossetti's  poem,  printed  in  the 
April  number  of  the  Shilling  Magazine.  After  that  there  are  only  one  or  two, 
and  then  he  disappears.  There  are  many  drawings  by  him  on  paper,  but 
it  is  safe  to  say  no  man  who  did  so  few  drawings  on  wood  ever  made  such 
a  reputation.  True,  Whistler  only  did  four  in  Once  a  Week  (1861-2),  among 
them  the  charming  design  printed  in  this  article,  but  he  was  known  as  an 
etcher  and  painter  at  the  time.  Whistler  also  contributed  to  a  "Catalogue  of 
Blue  and  White,"  published  by  Ellis  &  Elvey,  in  1878,  illustrated  by  auto- 
types, which  will  one  day  rank  with  Jacquemart's  books ;  but  this  was  only 
issued  in  a  very  limited  edition. 

After  1865,  we  find  that  the  books  contain  better  illustrations  than  the 
magazines,  attracting  the  better  men  by  the  greater  care  with  which  they 
were  printed  and  the  larger  size  of  the  pages.  However,  Du  Maurier,  Keene, 
Lawless,  Millais  and  Small  still  contributed  regularly  to  the  magazines. 

Expensive  gift-books  by  Houghton,  Pinwell,  North  and  Walker  were 
then  commenced,  perfectly  new  drawings  being  used  for  their  illustration. 
In  1866,  "A  Round  of  Days"  was  issued  by  Routledge ;  Walker,  North, 
Pinwell,  and  E.  Dalziel  come  off  best  in  this  gorgeous  morocco -covered 
volume,  especially  Dalziel,  who  contributes  a  striking  nocturne ;  the  beauty  of 
night,  discovered  by  Whistler,  being  duly  appreciated  by  these  illustrators. 
Houghton's  edition  of  "Don  Quixote"  is  another  of  the  books  of  1866. 

In  1867,  "Wayside  Posies"  and  Jean  Ingelow's  "Poems"  were  published 
by  Routledge  and  Longmans  respectively.  These  two  books  reach  the  high- 
water  mark  of  English  illustration ;  in  them,  North  and  Pinwell  surpass 
themselves  —  the  one  in  landscape,  the  other  in  figure — and  Edward  Dalziel 
is  quite    amazing  in    studies   of   mist  and  rain,  which    I   imagine    were,  at    the 


A    GOLDEN    DECADE   IS    ENGLISH    A  HI  123 

time,  absolutely  unnoticed  by  the  critics.  The  drawings  of  the  school, 
however,  must  have  been  popular,  for  Smith,  Elder  Cv:  Co.  reprinted  the 
Walkers  from  the  Comhill  in  a  "Gallery,"  in  1864;  Strahan,  in  1866, 
collected  the  Millais  drawings  in  a  portfolio;  and  in  1807,  "Touches  ot 
Nature,''  also  from  the  magazines,  printed,  it  is  said,  from  the  original 
blocks.  Possibly  this  was  meant  as  an  atonement  for  the  shabby  way  in 
which  the  artists  had  been  treated  in  the  magazines. 

In  1868,  "The  North  Coast,"  by  Buchanan,  was  issued  by  Routledge ; 
much  good  work  by  Houghton  is  hidden  away  in  its  pages.  The  next  year 
the  Graphic  was  started,  and  these  books  virtually  ceased  to  appear.  There 
were  some  spasmodic  efforts  to  produce  new  ones,  most  notable  of  which 
were  Whymper's  magnificent  "  Scrambles  amongst  the  Alps,"  containing 
J.  Mahoney's  best  drawings  and  Whymper's  best  engravings,  Tenniel's 
editions  of  "Alice  in  Wonderland"  and  "Through  the  Looking  Glass,"  Miss 
Rossetti's  "Sing-Song,"  illustrated  by  Arthur  Hughes,  1872,  and  "His- 
torical and  Legendary  Ballads "  (Chatto  &  YVindus),  1876,  made  up  from 
the  early  numbers  of  the  magazines,  and  specially  interesting  because  of 
the  rare  drawings  by  Whistler  and  Sandys  which  are  included.  It  is 
almost  the  only  book  in  which  one  can  find  the  work  of  these  two  men, 
although  their  drawings  were  not  done  originally  for  it,  as  the  editor  would 
like  one  to  believe. 

The  Graphic  printed  a  Portfolio  in  1877,  made  up  from  early  numbers. 
In  1878,  "Nature  Pictures,"  drawn  by  J.  H.  Dell  and  engraved  by  Patterson, 
was  issued  ;  as  an  example  of  what  facsimile  wood-engraving  is  capable  of,  it 
is  amazing,  the  most  elaborate   penwork  being  wonderfully  facsimiled   in  wood. 

Dalziels  produced  at  least  two  books  later  on,  magnificent  India  proofs 
of  "  English  Rustic  Pictures,"  printed  from  the  original  blocks  by  Pinwell 
and  Walker,  done  for  the  books  I  have  mentioned  (this  volume  is  undated) ; 
and  the  "Bible  Gallery"  (1881),  the  drawings  for  which  had  been  made  long 
before  and  kept  back  till  they  could  be  photographed  on  wood.  Many  of 
these  drawings,  which  a  few  years  ago  they  vainly  tried  to  sell,  are  now  among 
the    treasures   of   South    Kensington.       All    the    best-known    artists    contributed 


i24  THE   SAVOY 

to   the   "  Bible   Gallery,"   yet   the   result    was   not   altogether  a  success.     The 

most    conspicuously    good    drawings   are    by    Ford    Madox    Brown,    Leighton, 

Burne-Jones,    Sandys,   Poynter,    Houghton   and   Dalziel.      It  is  the   last  great 

English  book  illustrated  by  a  band  of  artists  and  engravers  working  together. 

Whether    the     results    are     satisfactory    or    not,    the    fact    remains    that    the 

engravers  were  most  enthusiastic,  and    encouraged  the   artists    as    no   one    has 

done  since  in  the  making  of  books ;   and  the  artists  were  the  most  distinguished 

draughtsmen  who  have  ever  appeared  in  England.      In  the  early  numbers  of 

the    Graphic   there    are    also    many    marvellous    designs    by    these    men,    and 

by  Green,  Fildes,   Linton,   Macbeth  and    Herkomer.       In   fact,  in    not   a   few 

cases   the    most    distinguished   work   of  the    present    R.A.'s  is   to  be   found,  in 

black   and   white,   in   the   Graphic. 

I    am   perfectly  aware   that   this   is  by  no  means  a  complete  list  of  the 

books   of  what    I    have    called    the    i860   period.       It    is    but    an    attempt    to 

point    out    the   great   value   and   importance   of   the   illustrations    contained   in 

these  books,  many  of  which,  so   far  as  their  pictures  go,  are  as  important  as 

those  of  the  fifteenth  century.     Yet  no  record  of  them  has  been  made;   they 

are   almost    unknown,    save   to   artists.       Among   artists,    however,   there   is   a 

rapidly-growing   admiration   for    English  art    of  this   period,  and   in   ten  years' 

time  these  books  will  be  rightly  considered  the  treasure-houses  of  the  golden 

decade  of  English  art. 

Joseph    Pennell. 


^•cwW™  "Zu.'- 


A    GLASS    OF    WHISKEY 

'  T  mind  the  man  that  gave  me  my  first  glass  of  whiskey,"  said  Johnny 
■1  Mullen,  the  tailor.  "  I  hadn't  a  red  nose  then,  or  eleven  half-starved 
children.  I  was  a  cub  down  at  Omagh,  doing  my  first  tailoring ;  and  it  was 
my  own  uncle,  God  forgive  him  !  I  wish  I  was  a  cub  again.  I'd  never  get 
married.  I'm  not  a  man  to  have  a  houseful  of  children.  I'm  too  much  of  a 
scoundrel." 

"  Hold  up  off  the  counter,  Johnny,  dear,"  said  Mrs.  Mulvany,  "  if  you 
don't  want  to  break  every  tumbler  I  have  in  the  house." 

"  Come  over  here,  Johnny,  and  sit  down  on  the  form  between  me  and 
Williamson,"  said  pensioner  Higgins  against  the  wall,  "  and  tell  us  about 
the  night  you  and  Peter  Hogan  drank  the  half-gallon."   • 

"  I'm  a  bad  villain  of  a  man,"  said  Johnny,  sitting  down.  "  I  might 
have  come  to  something,  and  I  turned  out  bad.  There  was  a  good  man 
lost  in  me,  and  I   turned  out  bad." 

"  Ah,  no,  you  did  not,  Johnny,"  said  Mrs.  Williamson's  husband. 
"  You're  a  brave  enough  man  as  it  is." 

"  I  tell  you  I'm  not,  Williamson,  and  I  ought  to  know  better  than  you. 
I  tell  you  I'm  not." 

"  1   tell  you  you  are,  Johnny.     There's  worse  people  than  you." 

"  Williamson,  Williamson,  you  know  nothing  about  it.  Damn  all  you 
know  about  it.     I  turned  out  a  bad  man." 

"  That'll  do  now,  Johnny,  that'll  do.  I  was  always  your  friend,  and 
there  wasn't  often  high  words  between  us,  and  you  can  afford  to  talk  me 
down.  But  it  is  not  everyone  would  do  it.  It  is  not  everyone  would 
venture.     All  right  now,  Johnny,  all  right." 

"  Ay,  but  it's  me  has  been  the  bad  scoundrel  of  a  man  entirely.  This 
uncle  of  mine  wasn't  a  drop's  blood  to  me.  He  was  my  uncle  by  marriage, 
and    he    didn't    know    anything    better.        '  Here,    Johnny,    my   son,'    says    he, 


128  THE   SAVOY 

'  you're  a  smart,  cliver  cub,  and  the  makings  of  a  good  tailor.  Drink  it  up,' 
says  he,  '  for  it'll  make  a  man  of  you.'  Ay,  boys  dear,  and  so  it  did.  It 
did  make  the  quare  man  of  me,  the  quare  bad  baste  of  a  man." 

Williamson  was  holding  his  tongue,  but  he  was  listening,  and  this 
provocation  was  nearly  too  much  fur  him. 

"  I  seen  the  time,  Johnny,"  he  said,  "  people  wouldn't  crow  me  down. 
I  seen  the  time " — and  he  went  on  with  his  eyes  shut,  and  as  if  talking 
to  himself — "  Ay,  that  was  the  fist  could  break  noses  "  ;  and  he  held  it  up. 
"  That  was  once  upon  a  time.  There  was  the  fist  could  break  noses.  Even 
yet,  maybe,  Johnny,  even  yet.  Ay,  there's  the  fist  could  break  noses.  There's 
the  fist  could  break  noses." 

"  It  made  the  quare  man  of  me,"  says  Johnny  ;  "  the  quare  bad  baste 
of  a  man." 

"  Whist,  Johnny,  whist  !  "  put  in  Higgins,  who  was  always  for  peace. 
"  Don't  go  on  like  ^jthat,  man.  Don't  provocate  him,  for  you're  not  his 
match,  anyway." 

"  I  never  seen  the  day  I  was  afeard  of  a  boy  like  Williamson,"  said 
Johnny. 

"  Was  I  ever  threacherous  to  you  yet,  Johnny  ?  "  said  Williamson. 
"  No,  Johnny,  never.  Never,  Johnny,  never.  But  I  never  was  afeard  of 
you,  either,  and  I  amn't  now.      But  was  I  ever  threacherous  to  you  yet  ?  " 

"  Oh  !  look  at  this  for  rascality  !  "  said  Mrs.  Mulvany.  "  They'll  murder 
one  another  yet,  the  villains,  that  could  not  have  the  decency  to  go  and  fight 
outside.  They'll  ruin  my  house.  Archy  Higgins,  put  up  them  tumblers  at 
once,  unless  you  want  every  vessel  in  my  house  to  be  broken  into  bits  and 
the  place  disgraced  for  ever  with  such  blackguardly  conduct,  for  you're  worse 
than  them.      It's  a  shame  for  you,  a  man  of  your  time  of  life." 

"  Oh !     Mrs.    Mulvany,    dear,    sure    it's   not    my    fault.       Sure    I'm   doing 

nothing  but  trying  to  sinder  them,  and  they  won't  let  go  one  another's  necks." 

-    "  Come   here,    child,    and    run    for   the    police,"    said    Mrs.   Mulvany,   "  to 

get  this  drunken  crew  out  of  my  house.      However  they  managed  to  crowd 

in,  all  three  of  them,  at  once.       It's   bad   enough,    goodness   knows,    to   have 


A   GLASS   OF    WHISKEY  129 

one  or  two  of  them  in  the  same  house  at  the  same  time,  but  three  rascals  of 
the  drunkenest  feather  in  all  the  country,  to  think  they'd  come  in  and  walk 
on  a  body  like  this.  A  party,  besides,  that  has  hardly  ever  a  penny  in  their 
own  pocket,  and  is  always  wanting  to  have  credit  or  to  drink  on  other  people. 
Poor  Mrs.  Williamson !  indeed  I  pity  her,  but  I  don't  blame  her.  A  nice 
thing,  indeed,  if  she  had  to  give  away  her  substance;  though  the  man  is  not 
the  undecentest  of  them  if  he  had  it,  and  is  quiet  enough  if  he  wasn't 
provoked." 

Higgins  had  got  them  to  let  each  other  go. 

'■  Did  ever  I  act  threacherous  to  you,  Johnny  ? 

•■  No  matter  now,  Williamson  ;  no  matter,"  says  Johnny. 

"  Och  !  Johnny,  dear,  whist,  will  you,"  says  Higgins,  "  and  go  no  further 
with  it.  Sure.  Williamson's  able-bodied,  and  you're  only  a  light  man,  anyway, 
and  always  was." 

Johnny  reached  for  Williamson  again. 

"  You  ought  to  have  been  a  Catholic,  Williamson,"  he  said ;  "  you  ought 
to  have  been  a  Catholic.  The  grandfather  before  you  was  a  papish,  and  a 
good  one  too,  and  a  decent  man." 

"  I  was  born  and  reared  a  Protestant,  Johnny,  and  a  decent  one.  Your 
uncle,  Johnny   Mullen,  was  in  jail." 

"  He  was  in  jail  decently,  Williamson.  If  my  uncle  was  in  jail  he  was 
in  it  decently.     He  was  in  it  for  poteen-making." 

"  They're  clawing  one  another  again  !  "  cried  Mrs.  Mulvany.  "  Lord 
have  mercy  on  us  !  or  what  is  the  world  coming  to.  I'll  go  away  and  shut 
the  door  and  leave  you  to  yourselves,  you  good-for-nothing  pack.  Higgins, 
you'll  pay  for  this  blackguard  work  some  day  or  other.  Couldn't  you  go  and 
call  some  of  the  Mullen's  ones  to  come  and  take  home  their  father  ?  Mrs. 
Williamson,  but  I  pity  you !  for  you  have  a  bad  pill  to  deal  with — though  he's 
a  quiet  enough  man  in  drink  if  he  was  let  alone." 

"  I  never  was  threacherous  with  you,  Johnny,  yet  ;  and  I  never 
yet  saw  them  Id  listen  to  saying  a  bad  word  against  you,"  said 
Williamson. 


1 3o  THE   SAVOY 

"  Williamson,  it  was  me  that  stood  up  for  you  at  the  election  times,  the 
evening  that  they  wanted  your  blood  for  breaking  in  and  spoiling  the  meeting. 
And  they'd  have  had  it,  too,  only  your  woman  came  and  fetched  you  away. 
But  I  stood  up  for  you,  Williamson,  and  I'd  stand  up  for  you  the  morrow." 

"Now  they're  going  to  hug  one  another,"  said  Mrs.  Mulvany ;  "and 
they'll  be  crying  in  a  minute,  and  it'll  go  on  like  this  all  evening.  And  there's 
nothing  on  earth  I  hate  so  much  to  see  in  two  men.  I'd  far  easier  stand 
them  fighting  and  killing  one  another.  Archy  Higgins,  if  you  don't  take 
them  pair  away  out  of  that,  you'll  never  enter  my  door  again.  Here,  Johnny 
Mullen,  your  Jennie  is  on  the  street  looking  for  you.  Go  on  out  home  with 
her  like  a  good  man.  You  and  Williamson  may  stay  there,  Higgins,  as  long 
as  you  like,  for  you're  peaceable  enough  if  let  alone,  and  poor  Mrs.  Williamson 
has  other  things  to  think  of  than  keeping  a  good-for-nothing  man  out  of  her 
way.  But  that  Johnny  Mullen  ! — I  don't  like  the  sight  of  him.  He'd  sit  in 
your  house  from  morning  to  night  to  provoke  you  looking  at  him,  and  him 
never  has  a  halfpenny  to  spend  after  Monday  morning  is  over." 

"  Ay,  I  wish  I  was  a  cub  again,"  Johnny  said,  going  home,  "  I'd  never 
get  married,  anyway."  The  little  daughter  Jennie  was  accustomed  to  the 
fool  talk  of  him.  "  I  wish  I  was  a  cub  again,  I'd  never  have  got — ay,  maybe 
I  would ;   ay,  likely  I  would  ;   but  things  wouldn't,  maybe,  be  like  this." 

Humphrey  James. 


IMPENITENTIA    ULTIMA 

¥")  EFORE    my    light    goes   out    for    ever,    if   God    should    give    me    a   choice 
*^     of   graces, 

I    would    not   reck   of   length   of  days,    nor  crave    for    things    to    be  ; 
But   cry   :    "  One    day   of   the   great    lost    days,    one    face   of  all    the    faces, 

Grant    me   to   see   and  touch    once    more,    and   nothing   more   to    see." 

For,  Lord,  I    was  free  of  all  Thy   flowers,  and    I    chose  the  world's   sad  roses, 
And   that    is    why    I    must    eat    my    bread    in    bitterness   and    sweat  ; 

But    at    Thy  terrible    Judgment    Seat,    when    this   my    tired    life    closes, 
I    am    ready   to   reap   whereof   I    sowed,    and   pay    my   righteous    debt. 

But    once   before  the   sand    is    run    and    the   silver    thread    is    broken, 
Give   me   a   grace   and    cast    aside   the    veil    of  dolorous   years ; 

Grant   me   one   hour   of  all    mine    hours,    and   let    me    see   for    a    token 
Her    pure   and    pitiful   eyes   shine    out,    and    bathe    her    feet    with    tears. 

Her    pitiful    hands    should    calm,    and    her    hair  stream    down    and    blind    me 
Out    of  the   sight    of  night    and    out    of   the    reach   of   fear, 

And  her   eyes  should   be    my  light,  while  the  sun  went   out  behind  me; 
And    the    viols   in    her    voice    be   the    last   sound    in    mine   ear. 

Before   the   ruining    waters   fall,    and    my   soul    be    carried    under, 

And    Thine   anger   cleave    me    through,    as   a   child    cuts   down    a    liower, 

1   will   praise   Thee,    Lord !    in    Hell,    while    my    limbs   are    racked    asunder, 
For   the   last    sad    sight    of  her    face    and    the    little   grace   of   an   hour. 

Kkkkst    Dowson. 


9—2 


"Thaulow:    The    Norwegian    Painter 
and   his   Family" 

By 

Jacques    L.    Blanche. 


THE    BINDING    OF    THE    HAIR 

I  '  III*,  men-at-arms  of  the  young  queen  Dectira,  and  of  the  old  and  foolish 
king  Lua,  had  lighted  a  line  of  fires  from  Bulben  to  the  sea  and  set 
watchmen  by  every  lire  ;  and  built  a  long  house  with  skin-covered  wattles 
for  the  assembly,  and  smaller  houses  to  sleep  in,  and  dug  round  them  a  deep 
ditch,  <  lose  to  the  place  where  the  Lis  of  the  Blindman  was  built  in  later 
times  ;  and  now  they  sat  in  the  long  house  waiting  the  attack  of  the  clans 
coming  down  from  the  plain  of  Ith,  and  listened  to  the  bard  Aodh,  who 
recited  a  battle-tale  of  the  wars  of  Heber  and  Heremon.  The  tale  w;b 
written  upon  thin  slips  of  wood,  which  the  bard  held  before  him  like  a  fan, 
grasping  them  above  the  brazen  pivot,  and  only  laid  down  when  he  would 
take  up  the  five-stringed  cruit  from  the  ground  at  his  feet  and  chaunt  hastily, 
and  with  vehement  gesture,  one  of  the  many  lyrics  woven  into  the  more 
massive  measure  of  the  tale.  Though  the  bard  was  famous,  the  old 
and  foolish  king  did  not  listen,  but  leaned  his  head  upon  the  central 
pillar  and  snored  fitfully  in  a  wine-heavy  sleep;  but  the  young  queen 
sat  among  her  women,  straight  and  still  like  a  white  candle,  and  listened 
as  though  there  was  no  tale  in  the  world  but  this  one,  for  the  enchantment 
of  his  dreamy  voice  was  in  her  ears ;  the  enchantment  of  his  changing 
history  in  her  memory :  how  he  would  live  now  in  the  Raths  of  kings, 
now  alone  in  the  great  forest ;  how  rumour  held  him  of  the  race  of  the  bard 
for  whom  the  tribes  of  Heber  and  Heremon  cast  lots  at  the  making  of  the 
world  ;  how,  despite  the  grey  hairs  mingling  before  their  time  with  the  dark 
of  his  beard,  he  was  blown  hither  and  thither  by  love  and  anger  ;  how, 
according  to  his  mood,  he  would  fly  now  from  one  man  and  with  blanched 
face,  and  now  prove  himself  of  a  preternatural  bravery  alone  against  many; 
and,  above  all,  how  he  had  sat  continually  by  her  great  chair  telling  of 
forays  and  battles  to  hearten  her  war-beaten  men-at-arms,  or  chaunting 
histories  and  songs  laden  with  gentler  destinies  for  her  ears  alone,  or,  more 
often   still,  listening  in  silence  to  the  rustling  of  her  dress. 


136  THE   SAVOY 

He  sang  now  of  anger  and  not  of  love,  for  it  was  needful  to  fill  the 
hearts  of  her  men-at-arms  with  thirst  of  battle  that  her  days  might  have 
peace ;  yet  over  all  the  tale  hovered  a  mournful  beauty  not  of  battle,  and 
from  time  to  time  he  would  compare  the  gleam  of  a  sword  to  the  bright- 
ness of  her  eyes ;  or  the  dawn  breaking  on  a  morning  of  victory  to  the 
glimmering  of  her  breast.  As  the  tale,  and  its  lyrics,  which  were  like  the 
foam  upon  a  wave,  flowed  on,  it  wrapped  the  men-at-arms  as  in  a  tide  of 
fire,  and  its  vehement  passages  made  them  clash  their  swords  upon  their 
shields  and  shout  an  ever-more  clamorous  approval.  At  last  it  died  out  in  a 
chaunt  of  triumph  over  battle-cars  full  of  saffron  robes  and  ornaments  of 
gold  and  silver,  and  over  long  lines  of  youths  and  maidens  with  brazen 
chains  about  their  ankles ;  and  the  men  shouted  and  clashed  their  swords 
upon  their  shields  for  a  long  time.  The  queen  sat  motionless  for  a  while, 
and  then  leaned  back  in  her  chair  so  that  its  carved  back  made  one  dark 
tress  fall  over  her  cheek.  Sighing  a  long,  inexplicable  sigh,  she  bound 
the  tress  about  her  head  and  fastened  it  with  a  golden  pin.  Aodh  gazed  at 
her,  the  fierce  light  fading  in  his  eyes,  and  began  to  murmur  something  over 
to  himself,  and  presently  taking  the  five-stringed  cruit  from  the  ground,  half 
knelt  before  her,  and  softly  touched  the  strings.  The  shouters  fell  silent,  for 
they  saw  that  he  would  praise  the  queen,  as  his  way  was  when  the  tales  were 
at  an  end  ;  and  in  the  silence  he  struck  three  notes,  as  soft  and  sad  as  though 
they  were  the  cooing  of  doves  over  the  Gates  of  Death. 

Before  he  could  begin  his  song,  the  door  which  led  from  the  long  room 
into  the  open  air  burst  open  and  a  man  rushed  in,  his  face  red  with  running, 
and  cried  out  : 

"  The  races  with  ignobly  bodies  and  ragged  beards,  from  beyond  the  Red 
Cataract,   have  driven   us  from  the   fires  and  have  killed   many  ! 

The  words  were  scarcely  from  his  mouth  before  another  man  struck 
against  him,  making  him  reel  from  the  door,  only  to  be  thrust  aside  by 
another  and  another  and  another,  until  all  that  remained  of  the  watchmen 
stood  in  the  centre  of  the  hall,  muddy  and  breathless,  some  pouring  wine  into 
horns  from  the  great  stone  flagon  that  stood  there,  and  some  unhooking  their 
bronze  helmets  and    shields  and   swords  from  the   pillars.     The  men  about  the 


THE    BINDING   OF   THE   HAIR  137 

queen  had  already  taken  their  helmets  and  shields  and  swords  from  pillars 
and  walls,  and  were  now  armed;  but  the  queen  sat  on  straight  and  still,  and 
Aodh  half  knelt  before  her,  with  bowed  head,  and  touched  the  five-stringed 
cruit   slowly   and  dreamily. 

At  last  he  rose  with  a  sigh,  and  was  about  to  mix  among  the  men-at- 
arms  when  the  queen  leaned  forward,  and,  taking  him  by  the  hand,  said,  in 
a  low  voice  : 

"  O  Aodh,  promise  me  to  sing  the  song  before  the  morning,  whether 
we  be  victors  or  weary  fugitives  !  " 

He   turned,  with   a   pale  face,   and  answered  : 

"  There  are  two  little  verses  in  my  heart,  two  little  drops  in  my  flagon, 
and  I  swear  by  the  Red  Swineherd  that  I  will  pour  them  out  before  the 
morning  for  the  Rose  of  my  Desire,  the  Lily  of  my  Peace,  whether  I  have 
living   lips  or  fade  among   the  imponderable  multitudes!" 

Then  he  took  down  his  wicker  shield  covered  with  hide,  and  his  helmet 
and  sword,  from  a  pillar,  and  mixed  among  the  crowd  that  poured,  shouting, 
through  the  great  door. 

Nobody  remained  in  the  long  room  except  the  queen  and  her  women 
and  the  foolish  king,  who  slept   on,  with  his   head   against  a  pillar. 

After  a  little,  they  heard  a  far-off  ringing  of  bronze  upon  bronze,  and  the 
dull  thud  of  bronze  upon  hide,  and  the  cries  of  men,  and  these  continued  for 
a  long  time,  and  then  sank  into  the  silence.  When  all  was  still,  the  queen 
took  the  five-stringed  cruit  upon  her  knees  and  began  touching  the  strings 
fitfully  and  murmuring  stray  lines  and  phrases  out  of  the  love  songs  of  Aodh  ; 
and  so  sat  until  about  two  hours  before  dawn,  when  the  tramp  of  feet  told  the 
return  of  the  men-at-arms.  They  came  in  slowly  and  wearily,  and  threw 
themselves  down,  clotted  with  blood  as  they  were,  some  on  the  floor,  some 
on  the  benches. 

•■  We  have  slain  the  most,  and  the  rest  fled  beyond  the  mountains,"  said 
the  leader  ;  "  but  there  is  no  part  of  the  way  where  there  was  not  fighting, 
and   we  have  left  many  behind   us." 

"Where  is  Aodh?"   said  one  of  the  women. 

"  I   saw   his  head  taken  oil   with  a   sword,"  said  the  man. 


138  THE  SAVOY 

The  queen  rose  and  passed  silently  out  of  the  room,  and,  half  crossing 
the  space  within  the  ditch,  came  where  her  horses  were  tethered,  and  bade 
the  old  man,  who  had  charge  of  their  harness  and  chariot,  tell  none,  but  come 
with  her  and  seek  for  a  dead  man.  They  drove  along  the  narrow  track  in  the 
forest  that  had  been  trod  by  marauders,  or  by  those  sent  to  give  them  battle, 
for  centuries  ;  and  saw  the  starlight  glimmer  upon  the  helmets  and  swords  of 
dead  men  troubling  a  darkness  which  seemed  heavy  with  a  sleep  older  than 
the  world.  At  last  they  came  out  upon  the  treeless  place  where  the  servile 
tribes  had  fought  their  last  desperate  battle  before  they  broke.  The  old  man 
tied  the  reins  to  a  tree  and  lit  a  torch,  and  the  two  began  to  search  among 
the  dead.  The  crows,  which  had  been  tearing  the  bodies,  rushed  up  into  the 
air  before  them  with  loud  cawing,  and  here  and  there  the  starlight  glimmered 
on   helmet  or  sword,   or  in  pools  of  blood,  or  in  the  eyes  of  the  dead. 

Of  a  sudden,  a  sweet,  tremulous  song  came  from  a  bush  near  them.  They 
hurried  towards  the  spot,  and  saw  a  head  hanging  from  the  bush  by  its  dark- 
hair  ;    and   the  head  was  singing,  and  this  was   the  song  it  sung — 

"  Fasten  your  hair  with  a  golden  pin, 
And  bind  up  every  wandering  tress ; 

I   bade  my  heart  build  these  poor  rhymes  : 
It  worked  at  them  day  out,  day  in, 
Building  a  sorrowful  loveliness 
Out  of  the  battles  of  old  times. 

"  You  need  but  lift  a  pearl-pale  hand, 

And  bind  up  your  long  hair  and  sigh  ; 

And  all  men's  hearts  must  burn  and  beat ; 
And  candle-like  foam  on  the  dim  sand, 
And  stars  climbing  the  dew-dropping  sky, 
Live  but  to  light  your  passing  feet.'' 

And  then  a  troop  of  crows,  heavy  like  fragments  of  that  sleep  older 
than  the  world,  swept  out  of  the  darkness,  and,  as  they  passed,  smote  those 
ecstatic  lips  with  the  points  of  their  wings,  and  the  head  fell  from  the  bush 
and   rolled  over  at  the  feet  of  the  queen. 

W.   B.  Yeats. 


$f*%'         ^r  ■ 


,y*»~. 


JHii,  '  idaS*^"'-1 


OF    CRITICISM    AND    THE    CRITIC 

UNDER  my  window  in  the  foggy,  dripping  street,  those  little  imps,  the 
newspaper-boys,  are  making  the  hour  horrisonant  with  their  yells. 
What  voices  the  urchins  develop,  at  what  tender  years!  You  and  1, 
Mr.  Editor,  we  could  not  advertise  our  wares  so  penetratingly,  though  we 
strove  till  our  throats  cracked  over  it.  I  hear  there  is  a  movement  on 
foot  for  the  suppression,  or  at  least  the  discipline,  of  these  too-raucous 
vendors  of  our  news ;  and  with  all  one's  jealousy  of  the  law's  interference, 
it  would  be  difficult  reasonably,  perhaps,  to  oppose  this  exercise  of  it.  Yet, 
after  all,  how  much  are  these  iude  and  hideous  cries  of  a  piece  with  the 
thoroughfares  they  resound  in,  or,  for  the  matter  of  that,  with  how  much  of 
our  manners  at  large  !  You  will  remember  a  charming  series  of  seventeenth- 
century  engravings,  by  Hollar,  portraying  for  us  the  street-cries  of  that  day. 
Such  picturesque  gentlemen  and  ladies,  they  assuredly  must  have  advertised 
and  insinuated  their  goods  with  choice  words  and  musical  falls,  daintily 
appropriate.  Nay,  I  am,  alas !  old  enough  to  recall  out  of  the  memory  of 
childhood  a  lingering  tradition  of  such  things — the  "  Buy-a-broom,"  the 
"  Buy  my  sweet,  blooming  lavender,"  girls.  The  latter  cry  may,  indeed, 
yet  be  heard,  now  and  again,  actually  here  off  Holborn,  on  an  August 
morning ;  but  its  sweet  strangeness  has  something  almost  too  pathetic  in  it, 
so  that  its  delicate  melody  seems  to  jar  on  one,  as  a  Corot  might  on  the 
hoarding  of  an  underground  station.  1  recollect  running  incontinent  out 
into  the  street  the  first  time  it  fell  on  my  ears  three  years  since.  From 
a  poor  lad,  painfully  making  way  with  his  one  leg  and  a  crutch,  came 
those  musical  tenor  notes ;  and  his  apparently  slight  hold  on  life  went  far 
from  amiss  with  that  old-world  fragrance,  that  old-world  melody.  Here, 
surely,    was    the    last    of    a    generation,    a    feeble   relic,    like    a    flame    flickering 


142  THE   SAVOY 

yet  a  moment  or  two,  of  vanished  tastes  and  habits,  an  echo  at  its  dying. 
Away,  my  poor  fellow,  out  of  this  boisterousness  and  hurry ;  leave  us,  and 
flit    away    to   the   leisurely   and    quiet    shades  ! 

Not,  indeed,  that  I  would  lend  myself  to  the  vulgarity  of  a  mere 
shrewish  scolding  and  belittling  of  our  own  da)7.  That  is  a  cheap  indigna- 
tion which  leads  a  man  to  defame  recklessly  his  age  and  country ;  nay,  it 
is  a  scurvy  trick,  anyhow,  to  befoul  one's  own  nest.  When  the  tale  of  the 
centuries  comes  to  be  made  up,  I  have  little  misgiving  but  that  we  nine- 
teenth-century folk  shall  cut  a  decent-enough  figure.  But  certainly  it  would 
be  fanaticism,  the  drunkenness  of  a  sheer  conceit,  to  proclaim  our  time 
altogether,  or  indeed  in  some  ways  comparatively,  as  in  se  ipso  totus,  teres, 
atquc  rotundus.  Those  very  providences  which  have  been  vouchsafed  to  give 
us  our  distinction,  our  scientific  and  mechanical  advances,  I  mean,  are,  as 
yet,  themselves  the  provocatives  of  certain  blemishes  in  us,  directly  and 
indirectly.  \Ye  have  fed  on  strong  and  strange  meat  somewhat  gluttonously, 
and  suffer  by  consequence  from  an  indigestion,  as  one  might  say.  It  is  no 
sound  appreciativeness,  therefore,  of  our  real  condition,  of  our  unquestionable 
virtues,  which  induces  in  some  of  us  so  determined  a  self-satisfaction,  that 
either  we  deny  the  deficiencies  detected  in  us,  or  treat  them  airily  as  of 
no  moment.  You  shall  have  your  friend  Practicus  hold  you  by  the  button  in 
Shaftesbury  Avenue,  while  he  descants  with  enthusiasm  on  the  improvements 
there  of  these  past  dozen  years,  and  is  moved  even  to  some  aesthetic  fervour 
(for,  somewhere  in  him,  he,  too,  has  a  dormant  sense  of  beauty)  by  that 
magical  London  atmosphere,  which  is  for  ever  transmuting  our  world  for 
us  from  mysterious  glory  to  glory.  Nor  is  it  necessary,  nor  is  it  consonant 
with  truth,  to  gainsay  him  ;  the  most  one  can  say  is,  that  there  seems  to 
be  another  side  to  things.  In  some  matters,  Nature  is  the  most  indulgent 
mother  imaginable ;  and  however  we  deform  our  surroundings,  she  comes 
with  her  tender  cunning  and  transfigures  them  into  loveliness.  To  her 
effective  resourcefulness  there  is,  indeed,  no  end ;  she  plays  over  our  mean 
buildings,  our  reckless  contrivances  to  secure  convenience,  or  to  trumpet  our 
way  in   the   world,  and,  as  though   she  were   saying   to  us,  "  You  foolish  little 


OF  CRITICISM   AND   THE  CRITIC  t43 

creatures!  you  fancy  beauty  doesn't  matter  for  you,  and  so  it  is  in  despite 
of  you  that  I  must  work  my  miracles  of  grace,"  out  of  chaos  she  brings 
a  charm  unspeakable.  Let  us  go  down  on  our  knees  and  thank  her 
but,  also,  let  us  have  an  eye  to  our  own  souls.  The  true  citizen  would 
fain  sec  the  thoroughfares  of  his  town  line  and  fair  of  themselves,  needing 
no  trickery  of  light  or  mist  to  commend  them.  To-day  it  is  pathetic  to 
observe  with  what  a  makeshift  we  have  come  to  be  content.  As  we 
hurry  to  and  fro  'twixt  our  paltry  buildings,  the  last  device  we  can  hit 
upon  to  relieve  their  mean  stupidity,  to  amuse  ourselves  amid  their  depression, 
to  refresh  ourselves  amid  the  prevailing  dirt  and  din,  is  to  paper  them  with 
placards,  staring,  grotesque,  salacious.  How  excellently  with  it  all  goes  the 
ragamuffin  yonder,  shouting  "  Ixtree  Speshall !  "  Dirty,  ragged,  cracked-voiced, 
impudent  young  scamp,  how  significant  a  product  you  are  of  our  aims  and 
methods !  My  poor,  belated  lavender-seller  of  the  soft  notes  and  the  dulcet 
melody,  your  modesty  is  an  anachronism,  your  tunefulness  a  discord,  the  ears 
that  had  leisure  to  listen  to  you  have  been  dust  this  many  a  day. 

But  you  remind  me,  Mr.  Editor,  that  my  title  has  something  about 
'•Criticism  and  the  Critic.''  Ah!  pardon  me,  I  have  been  wandering  afield; 
though  not  quite  so  far,  perhaps,  as  you  take  it  to  be.  However,  I  started 
on  this  communication  with  the  thought  of  a  newspaper  in  my  head,  a 
somewhat  fresh  variety  of  literary  and  artistic  journal,  the  idea  of  which 
a  friend  suggests  to  me,  and  which  it  may  be  worth  someone's  while  to 
consider.  The  characteristics  of  his  adventure  may  be  explained  briefly. 
As  the  terms  are  ordinarily  understood,  this  paper  would  have  no  principles 
and  no  policy.  He  proposes  that  the  Editor  should  have  no  further  care 
than  to  see  that  his  writers  possess  individuality  and  can  express  it,  and 
that  they  run  him  not  into  a  libel-action.  The  writers  shall  have  no 
further  care  than  to  say  precisely  what  each  of  them  thinks  and  feels  on 
the  matter  in  hand,  unhampered  by  the  least  concern  of  supporting  any 
tradition,  or  by  a  dread  of  contradicting,  even  flatly,  what  someone  else,  or 
their  own  selves,  may  have  written  in  the  same  paper.  Each  of  them,  there- 
fore, would    have  a   free  hand  entirely,  with  that  one  proviso  of  blanching  the 


i44  THE   SAVOY 

libel-court.  He  would  write  in  the  first  person,  and  in  the  style  his  humour 
smiled  upon  at  the  moment.  He  would  sign  his  article  always,  but  sign 
it,  as  the  whim  took  him,  either  with  his  name,  or  with  a  nom-de-giterre,  or 
with  an  initial ;  and  he  would  be  free  to  change  his  signature  as  the 
occasion    prompted    him.      Such,    briefly,    is    my    friend's    proposal. 

I  conceive  that  the  ideas  working  in  his  brain,  and  leading  him  to  the 
above  suggestions,  are  somewhat  as  follows ;  and  though  even  to  contem- 
plate adding  to  the  burden  of  our  current  journals  is  dangerously  near  to 
criminality,  I  confess  to  feeling  some  force  in  what  I  believe  he  would 
authorise    me    to    set    forth    as    the    grounds    of   his   position. 

Somebody  has  somewhere  said,  that  in  criticism  the  great  thing  is  for 
the  critic  to  get  himself  out  of  the  way.  There  is  much  pertinence  in  the 
remark ;  yet  here,  as  so  often,  one  may  state  precisely  its  opposite  with  a 
pertinence  by  no  means  less.  Individuality  is  the  one  interesting,  real  thing 
in  the  universe.  If  a  man  is  worth  listening  to  at  all  (and,  when  one  can 
get  at  him,  I  expect  there  breathes  not  a  soul  but  is),  let  us  hear  what 
he  thinks  and  feels,  what  he  likes  and  hates,  and  let  us  hear  it  his  own 
way.  For  the  attainment  of  this  end  the  tyranny  of  the  editorial  "  we " 
is  fatal ;  but  fatal,  too,  is  the  antithesis,  that  on  every  occasion  a  man  should 
write  over  his  own  signature,  or  over  a  signature  known  to  be  his.  The 
ideal  function  of  criticism  is  indeed  to  discern  the  true  character  of  the  thing 
criticised ;  but  when  we  get  off  mere  facts,  as  in  the  arts,  such  criticism 
is  to  mortals  for  the  most  part  impossible ;  when  we  assume  to  deliver 
it  we  are  ludicrously,  irritatingly  impertinent.  To  learn,  however,  how 
a  man  is  affected  by  this  or  that  specimen  of  the  arts  at  the  moment 
before  him,  entertains  and  stimulates  me;  and  the  entertainment,  the  stimula- 
tion, are  heightened  if  he  has  time  and  opportunity  to  express  himself  to  a 
nicety.  In  some  ways,  therefore,  his  written  impression  of  such  matters  is 
of  finer  value  and  delight  than  even  his  conversation  on  them,  for  it  is 
hardly  less  personal,  while  it  is  more  considered,  more  clear  and  precise. 
My  friend's  insistence  that  in  his  proposed  paper  everybody  shall  write  in 
the    first    person,    but    still    over    what    signature    or    signatures    he    chooses, 


OF  CRITICISM   AND    THE   Chi  lie  ,4j 

seems  to  secure  at  once  an  individuality  of  utterance,  and  to  allow  a  man 
thai  freedom  in  expressing  himself  which,  on  occasion,  is  in  danger,  if  his 
real  name  must  serve  for  finale.  I  do  not  deny  that  it  is  foolish  in  us 
to  be  so  under  the  spell  of  a  mere  pronoun,  and  of  the  magnificent, 
magisterial  air  accompanying  it,  as  to  let  them  appal  us  by  their  authority, 
hi  fret  us  into  a  petulant  rebellion.  We  are  aware  that  it  is  but  a  Mr.  Jones 
or  a  Mr.  Briggs  swaggering  under  that  pretentious  mask;  and  if  these 
gentlemen  gave  themselves  such  airs  when  we  sat  together,  they  would 
impose  upon  lis  no  more  than  any  other  coxcomb.  But  human  nature  is 
weak',  and  much  at  the  mercy  of  appearances.  When  Mr.  Jones  and 
Mr.  Briggs  stand,  stripped  of  their  mystery,  face  to  face  with  us,  we  meet 
them  on  equal  terms ;  and  their  credit,  their  limits  of  attraction,  or  of 
irritation,  are    proportioned    fairly    enough    to    their    naked    worth. 

n  Image. 


A  Scene  from  Voltaire's  "La  Pucelle" 


Etched  by 

Will    Rothenstein. 


_z_ 


THE    WANDERERS 

V\7TA  N  I  >E  R  I  N  G,    ever    wandering, 

**        Their   eyelids   freshened    with    the    wind   of   the    sea 
I  Mown    up   the    cliffs    at    sunset,    their   cheeks    cooled 
With    meditative    shadows   of   hushed   leaves 
That    have    been    drowsing    in    the    woods    all    day, 
And    certain    fires   of  sunrise    in    their   eyes. 

They    wander,    and    the    white    roads    under    them 
Crumble    into    fine   dust    behind    their   feet, 
For   they    return    not  ;    life,    a    long    white    road, 
Winds    ever    from    the    dark    into    the    dark, 
And    they,    as   days,    return    not  ;    they   go   on 
For   ever,    with    the    travelling    stars ;    the    night 
Curtains   them,    being    wearied,    and    the    dawn 
Vwakens    them    unwearied;  they   go    on. 
They    know    the    winds    of   all    the    earth,    they    know 
The   dust    of   many    highways,   and    the    stones 
( )f  cities    set    for    landmarks   on    the    road. 
Theirs    is    the    world,    and    all    the    glory    of    it, 
Theirs,    because  they    forego    it,    passing    on 
Into    the   freedom    of    the    elements; 
Wandering,    ever    wandering, 
Because    life    holds    not    anything    so   good 
As    to    be   free   of   yesterday,    and    bound 
Towards   a    new    to-morrow  ;  and    they    wend 
Into    a    world    of    unknown    faces,    where 


THE   SAVOY 

It  may  be  there  are  faces  waiting  them, 
Faces  of  friendly  strangers,  not  the  long 
Intolerable   monotony   of  friends. 

The  joy   of   earth   is   yours,    O    wanderers, 

The   only  joy   of  the    old    earth,    to   wake, 

As   each    new    dawn    is    patiently   renewed, 

With    foreheads   fresh   against    a    fresh    young   sky. 

To    be    a    little   further   on    the    road, 

A    little   nearer   somewhere,    some   few    steps 

Advanced   into   the   future,    and    removed 

By    some   few   counted   milestones   from    the    past; 

God   gives   you  this   good   gift,    the    only   gift 

That    God,    being   repentant,    has    to   give. 

Wanderers,   you   have   the   sunrise   and   the   stars ; 
And   we,    beneath   our   comfortable   roofs, 
Lamplight,    and   daily   fire   upon    the   hearth, 
And   four    walls   of  a    prison,    and    sure   food. 
But    God   has   given    you    freedom,    wanderers! 


Arthur   Symons. 


UNDER    THE    HILL 


A     ROMANTIC     NOVEL 


AUBREY     BEARDSLEY 


WITH     HIS     ILLUSTRATION'S 


CHAPTERS     ONE,     TWO     AND     THREE 


LA     CHALEUR     PU     BRANDON     VENTS 

Le  Roman  til  la  Rose,  v.   22051 


UND Eh'    THE   HILL  153 

TO 
THE     MOST     EMINENT     AND     REVEREND     PRINCE 

GIULIO    POLDO    PEZZOLI 

CARDINAL     OF     THE     HOLY     ROMAN     CHURCH 

TITULAR     BISHOP    OF     S.     MARIA     IN     TRASTAVERE 

ARCHBISHOP     OF     OSTIA     AND     VELLETRI 

NUNCIO     TO     THE      HOLY     SEE 

IN 

NICARAGUA     AND     PATAGONIA 

A     FATHER     TO    THE     POOR 

A     REFORMER     OF     ECCLESIASTICAL     DISCIPLINE 

A     PATTERN     OF     LEARNING 

WISDOM     AND     HOLINESS     OF     LIFE 

THIS      BOOK      IS     DEDICATED     WITH      DUE      REVERENCE 

BY     HIS     HUMBLE     SERVITOR 

A     SCRIVENER     AND     LIMNER     OF     WORLDLY     THINGS 

WHO     MADE     THIS      BOOK 

AUBREY    BEARDSLEY 


Most  Eminent  Prince, 

I  know  not  by  what  mischance  the  writing  of  epistles  dedicatory  has 
fallen  into  disuse,  whether  through  the  vanity  of  authors  or  the  humility  ot 
patrons.  But  the  practice  seems  to  me  so  very  beautiful  and  becoming  that  I 
have  ventured  to  make  an  essay  in  the  modest  art,  and  lay  with  formalities 
my  first  book  at  your  feet.  I  have  it  must  be  confessed  many  fears  lest  I 
shall  be  arraigned  of  presumption  in  choosing  so  exalted  a  name  as  your  own 
to  place  at  the  beginning  of  this  history  ;  but  I  hope  that  such  a  censure  will 
not  be  too  lightly  passed  upon  me,  for  if  I  am  guilty  it  is  but  of  a  most 
natural  pride  that  the  accidents  of  my  life  should  allow  me  to  sail  the  little 
pinnace   of  my   wit   under  your   protection. 

10 — 2 


154 


THE   SAVOY 


But  though  I  can  clear  myself  of  such  a  charge,  I  am  still  minded  to 
use  the  tongue  of  apology,  for  with  what  face  can  I  offer  you  a  book  treating 
of  so  vain  and  fantastical  a  thing  as  love  ?  I  know  that  in  the  judgment  of 
many  the  amorous  passion  is  accounted  a  shameful  thing  and  ridiculous  ;  indeed 
it  must  be  confessed  that  more  blushes  have  risen  for  love's  sake  than  for 
any  other  cause  and  that  lovers  are  an  eternal  laughing-stock.  Still,  as 
the  book  will  be  found  to  contain  matter  of  deeper  import  than  mere  venery, 
inasmuch  as  it  treats  of  the  great  contrition  of  its  chiefest  character,  and 
of  canonical  things  in  certain  pages,  I  am  not  without  hopes  that  your 
Eminence  will  pardon  my  writing  of  a  loving  Abbe,  for  which  extravagance 
let  my  youth   excuse   me. 

Then  I  must  crave  your  forgiveness  for  addressing  you  in  a  language 
other  than  the  Roman,  but  my  small  freedom  in  Latinity  forbids  me  to 
wander  beyond  the  idiom  of  my  vernacular.  I  would  not  for  the  world 
that  your  delicate  Southern  ear  should  be  offended  by  a  barbarous  assault 
of  rude  and  Gothic  words ;  but  methinks  no  language  is  rude  that  can 
boast  polite  writers,  and  not  a  few  such  have  flourished  in  this  country  in 
times  past,  bringing  our  common  speech  to  very  great  perfection.  In  the 
present  age,  alas !  our  pens  are  ravished  by  unlettered  authors  and 
unmannered  critics,  that  make  a  havoc  rather  than  a  building,  a  wilderness 
rather  than  a  garden.  But,  alack  !  what  boots  it  to  drop  tears  upon  the 
preterit  ? 

It  is  not  of  our  own  shortcomings  though,  but  of  your  own  great 
merits  that  I  should  speak,  else  I  should  be  forgetful  of  the  duties  I  have 
drawn  upon  myself  in  electing  to  address  you  in  a  dedication.  It  is  of 
your  noble  virtues  (though  all  the  world  know  of  'em),  your  taste  and 
wit,  your  care  for  letters,  and  very  real  regard  for  the  arts  that  I  must 
be    the    proclaimer. 

Though  it  be  true  that  all  men  have  sufficient  wit  to  pass  a 
judgment  on  this  or  that,  and  not  a  few  sufficient  impudence  to  print  the 
same  (these  last  being  commonly  accounted  critics),  I  have  ever  held  that 
the    critical    faculty   is   more   rare   than    the   inventive.       It    is   a    faculty    your 


UNDER    THE   HILL  i55 

Eminence  possesses  in  so  great  a  degree  that  your  praise  or  blame  is 
something  oracular,  your  utterance  infallible  as  great  genius  or  as  a  beautiful 
woman.  Your  mind,  I  know,  rejoicing  in  fine  distinctions  and  subtle 
procedures  of  thought,  beautifully  discursive  rather  than  hastily  conclusive, 
has  found  in  criticism  its  happiest  exercise.  It  is  a  pity  that  so  perfect 
a  Mecsenas  should  have  no  Horace  to  befriend,  no  Georgics  to  accept  ; 
for  the  offices  and  function  of  patron  or  critic  must  of  necessity  be 
lessened  in  an  age  of  little  men  and  little  work.  In  times  past  it  was 
nothing  derogatory  for  great  princes  and  men  of  State  to  extend  their 
loves  and  favour  to  poets,  for  thereby  they  received  as  much  honour  as 
they  conferred.  Did  not  Prince  Festus  with  pride  take  the  masterwork  of 
Julian  into  his  protection,  and  was  not  the  /Eneis  a  pretty  thing  to  offer 
Caesar  ? 

Learning  without  appreciation  is  a  thing  of  naught,  but  I  know- 
not  which  is  greatest  in  you — your  love  of  the  arts,  or  your  knowledge 
of  'em.  What  wonder  then  that  I  am  studious  to  please  you,  and 
desirous  of  your  protection.  How  deeply  thankful  I  am  for  your  past 
affections  you  know  well,  your  great  kindness  and  liberality  having  far 
outgone  my  slight  merits  and  small  accomplishment  that  seemed  scarce  to 
warrant  any  favour.  Alas  !  'tis  a  slight  offering  I  make  you  now,  but  if 
after  glancing  into  its  pages  (say  of  an  evening  upon  your  terrace)  you 
should  deem  it  worthy  of  the  remotest  place  in  your  princely  library,  the 
knowledge  that  it  rested  there  would  be  reward  sufficient  for  my  labours, 
and  a  crowning  happiness  to  my  pleasure  in  the  writing  of  this  slender 
book. 

The    humble    and    obedient    servant    of   your    Eminence, 

AUBREY     BEARDSLEY. 


UNDER   THE    HILL 

CHAPTER    I 

THE  Abbe  Fanfreluche,  having  lighted  off  his  horse,  stood  doubtfully  for 
a  moment  beneath  the  ombre  gateway  of  the  mysterious  Hill,  troubled 
with  an  exquisite  fear  lest  a  day's  travel  should  have  too  cruelly  undone  the 
laboured  niceness  of  his  dress.  His  hand,  slim  and  gracious  as  La  Marquise 
du  Deffand's  in  the  drawing  by  Carmontelle,  played  nervously  about  the  gold 
hair  that  fell  upon  his  shoulders  like  a  finely-curled  peruke,  and  from  point  to 
point  of  a  precise  toilet  the  fingers  wandered,  quelling  the  little  mutinies  of 
cravat  and  ruffle. 

It  was  taper-time ;  when  the  tired  earth  puts  on  its  cloak  of  mists  and 
shadows,  when  the  enchanted  woods  are  stirred  with  light  footfalls  and  slender 
voices  of  the  fairies,  when  all  the  air  is  full  of  delicate  influences,  and  even 
the  beaux,  seated  at  their  dressing-tables,  dream  a  little. 

A  delicious  moment,  thought  Fanfreluche,  to  slip  into  exile. 

The  place  where  he  stood  waved  drowsily  with  strange  flowers,  heavy 
with  perfume,  dripping  with  odours.  Gloomy  and  nameless  weeds  not  to  be 
found  in  Mentzelius.  Huge  moths,  so  richly  winged  they  must  have  banqueted 
upon  tapestries  and  royal  stuffs,  slept  on  the  pillars  that  flanked  either  side  of 
the  gateway,  and  the  eyes  of  all  the  moths  remained  open  and  were  burning 
and  bursting  with  a  mesh  of  veins.  The  pillars  were  fashioned  in  some  pale 
stone  and  rose  up  like  hymns  in  the  praise  of  pleasure,  for  from  cap  to  base, 
each  one  was  carved  with  loving  sculptures,  showing  such  a  cunning  invention 
and  such  a  curious  knowledge,  that  Fanfreluche  lingered  not  a  little  in  reviewing 
them.  They  surpassed  all  that  Japan  has  ever  pictured  from  her  maisons 
vertes,  all  that  was  ever  painted  in  the  cool  bath-rooms  of  Cardinal  La  Motte, 
and  even  outdid  the  astonishing  illustrations  to  Jones's  "  Nursery  Numbers." 


UNDER    THE   HILL  iyi 

"  A   pretty  portal,"   murmured  the  Abbe,  correcting  his  sash. 

As  he  spoke,  a  faint  sound  of  singing  was  breathed  out  from  the 
mountain,  faint  music  as  strange  and  distant  as  sea-legends  that  are  heard 
in  shells. 

"  The  Vespers  of  Helen,  I  take  it,"  said  Fanfreluche,  and  struck  a 
few  chords  of  accompaniment,  ever  so  lightly,  upon  his  little  lute.  Softly 
across  the  spell-bound  threshold  the  song  floated  and  wreathed  itself  about 
the  subtle  columns,  till  the  moths  were  touched  with  passion  and  moved 
quaintly  in  their  sleep.  One  of  them  was  awakened  by  the  intenser  notes 
of  the  Abbe's  lute-strings,  and  fluttered  into  the  cave.  Fanfreluche  felt  it 
was  his  cue  for  entry. 

"Adieu,"  he  exclaimed  with  an  inclusive  gesture,  and  "good-bye, 
Madonna,"  as  the  cold  circle  of  the  moon  began  to  show,  beautiful  and 
full  of  enchantments.  There  was  a  shadow  of  sentiment  in  his  voice  as 
he  spoke  the  words. 

"  Would  to  heaven,"  he  sighed,  "  I  might  receive  the  assurance  of  a 
looking-glass  before  I  make  my  debut  !  However,  as  she  is  a  Goddess,  I 
doubt  not  her  eyes  are  a  little  sated  with  perfection,  and  may  not  be 
displeased  to  see  it  crowned  with  a  tiny  fault." 

A  wild  rose  had  caught  upon  the  trimmings  of  his  ruff,  and  in  the 
tirst  flush  of  displeasure  he  would  have  struck  it  brusquely  away,  and  most 
severely  punished  the  offending  flower.  But  the  ruffled  mood  lasted  only  a 
moment,  for  there  was  something  so  deliciously  incongruous  in  the  hardy 
petal's  invasion  of  so  delicate  a  thing,  that  Fanfreluche  withheld  the  finger 
of  resentment  and  vowed  that  the  wild  rose  should  stay  where  it  had  clung 
— a  passport,  as  it  were,  from  the  upper  to  the  under  world. 

"  The  very  excess  and  violence  of  the  fault,"  he  said,  "  will  be  its 
excuse";  and,  undoing  a  tangle  in  the  tassel  of  his  stick,  stepped  into  the 
shadowy  corridor  that  ran  into  the  bosom  of  the  wan  hill — stepped  with 
the  admirable  aplomb  and  unwrinkled  suavity  of  Don  John. 


i6o  THE   SAVOY 


CHAPTER     II 


Before  a  toilet  that  shone  like  the  altar  of  Notre  Dame  des  Victoires, 
Helen  was  seated  in  a  little  dressing-gown  of  black  and  heliotrope.  The 
coiffeur  Cosme  was  caring  for  her  scented  chevelure,  and  with  tiny  silver 
tongs,  warm  from  the  caresses  of  the  flame,  made  delicious  intelligent  curls 
that  fell  as  lightly  as  a  breath  about  her  forehead  and  over  her  eyebrows, 
and  clustered  like  tendrils  round  her  neck.  Her  three  favourite  girls, 
Pappelarde,  Blanchemains  and  Loreyne,  waited  immediately  upon  her  with 
perfume  and  powder  in  delicate  flacons  and  frail  cassolettes,  and  held  in 
porcelain  jars  the  ravishing  paints  prepared  by  Chateline  for  those  cheeks 
and  lips  that  had  grown  a  little  pale  with  anguish  of  exile.  Her  three 
favourite  boys,  Claud,  Clair  and  Sarrasine,  stood  amorously  about  with  salver, 
fan  and  napkin.  Millamant  held  a  slight  tray  of  slippers,  Minette  some  tender 
gloves,  La  Popeliniere  —  mistress  of  the  robes — was  ready  with  a  frock  of 
yellow  and  yellow,  La  Zambinella  bore  the  jewels,  Florizel  some  flowers, 
Amadour  a  box  of  various  pins,  and  Yadius  a  box  of  sweets.  Her  doves, 
ever  in  attendance,  walked  about  the  room  that  was  panelled  with  the  gallant 
paintings  of  Jean  Baptiste  Dorat,  and  some  dwarfs  and  doubtful  creatures  sat 
here  and  there  lolling  out  their  tongues,  pinching  each  other,  and  behaving 
oddly  enough.       Sometimes  Helen  gave  them  little  smiles. 

As  the  toilet  was  in  progress,  Mrs.  Marsuple,  the  fat  manicure  and 
fardeuse,  strode  in  and  seated  herself  by  the  side  of  the  dressing-table,  greeting 
Helen  with  an  intimate  nod.  She  wore  a  gown  of  white  watered  silk  with 
gold  lace  trimmings,  and  a  velvet  necklet  of  false  vermilion.  Her  hair  hung 
in  bandeaux  over  her  ears,  passing  into  a  huge  chignon  at  the  back  of  her 
head,  and  the  hat,  wide-brimmed  and  hung  with  a  vallance  of  pink  muslin, 
was  floral  with  red  roses. 

Mrs.  Marsuple"s  voice  was  full  of  salacious  unction  ;  she  had  terrible 
little  gestures  with  the  hands,  strange  movements  with  the  shoulders,  a  short 
respiration  that  made  surprising  wrinkles  in  her  bodice,  a  corrupt  skin,  large 
horny  eyes,  a  parrot's  nose,  a  small  loose  mouth,  great  flaccid  cheeks,  and  chin 
alter    chin.       She    was    a   wise    person,    and    Helen    loved    her    more    than   any 


UNDER   THE   HILL  163 

other  of  her  servants,  and  had  a  hundred  pat  names  for  her,  such  as  Dear 
Toad,  Pretty  Poll,  Cock  Robin,  Dearest  Lip,  Touchstone,  Little  Cough  Drop, 
Bijou,  Buttons,  Dear  Heart,  Dick-dock,  Mrs.  Manly,  Little  Nipper,  Cochon- 
de-lait,  Naughty-naughty,  Blessed  Thing,  and  Trump.  The  talk  that  passed 
between  Mrs.  Marsuple  and  her  mistress  was  of  that  excellent  kind  that  passes 
between  old  friends,  a  perfect  understanding  giving  to  scraps  of  phrases  their 
full  meaning,  and  to  the  merest  reference  a  point.  Naturally  Fanfreluche  the 
newcomer  was  discussed  a  little.  Helen  had  not  seen  him  yet,  and  asked  a 
score  of  questions  on  his  account  that  were  delightfully  to  the  point. 

The  report  and  the  coiffing  were  completed  at  the  same  moment. 

"  Cosme,"  said  Helen,  "  you  have  been  quite  sweet  and  quite  brilliant, 
you  have  surpassed  yourself  to-night." 

"  Madam  flatters  me,"  replied  the  antique  old  thing,  with  a  girlish 
giggle  under  his  black  satin  mask.  "  Gad,  Madam  ;  sometimes  I  believe 
I  have  no  talent  in  the  world,  but  to-night  1  must  confess  to  a  touch  of  the 
vain   mood." 

It  would  pain  me  horribly  to  tell  you  about  the  painting  of  her  face  ; 
suffice  it  that  the  sorrowful  work  was  accomplished  ;  frankly,  magnificently, 
and  without  a  shadow  of  deception. 

Helen  slipped  away  the  dressing-gown,  and  rose  before  the  mirror  in 
a  flutter  of  frilled  things.  She  was  adorably  tall  and  slender.  Her  neck 
and  shoulders  were  wonderfully  drawn,  and  the  little  malicious  breasts 
were  full  of  the  irritation  of  loveliness  that  can  never-  be  entirely  compre- 
hended, or  ever  enjoyed  to  the  utmost.  Her  arms  and  hands  were  loosely, 
but  delicately  articulated,  and  her  legs  were  divinely  long.  From  the  hip  to 
the  knee,  twenty-two  inches  ;  from  the  knee  to  the  heel,  twenty-two  inches, 
as  befitted  a  Goddess.  Those  who  have  seen  Helen  only  in  the  Vatican, 
in  the  Louvre,  in  the  Uffizi,  or  in  the  British  Museum,  can  have  no  idea 
how  very  beautiful  and  sweet  she  looked.  Not  at  all  like  the  lady  in 
"  Lempriere." 

Mrs.  Marsuple  grew  quite  lyric  over  the  dear  little  person,  and  pecked 
at  her  arms  with  kisses. 


1 64  THE   SAVOY 

"  Dear  Tongue,  you  must  really  behave  yourself,''  said  Helen,  and  called 
Millamant  to  bring  her  the  slippers. 

The  tray  was  freighted  with  the  most  exquisite  and  shapely  pantoufles, 
sufficient  to  make  Cluny  a  place  of  naught.  There  were  shoes  of  grey  and 
black  and  brown  suede,  of  white  silk  and  rose  satin,  and  velvet  and  sarcenet; 
there  were  some  of  sea-green  sewn  with  cherry  blossoms,  some  of  red  with 
willow  branches,  and  some  of  grey  with  bright -winged  birds.  There  were 
heels  of  silver,  of  ivory,  and  of  gilt  ;  there  were  buckles  of  very  precious 
stones  set  in  most  strange  and  esoteric  devices  ;  there  were  ribbons  tied  and 
twisted  into  cunning  forms;  there  were  buttons  so  beautiful  that  the  button- 
holes might  have  no  pleasure  till  they  closed  upon  them ;  there  were  soles  of 
delicate  leathers  scented  with  marechale,  and  linings  of  soft  stuffs  scented 
with  the  juice  of  July  flowers.  But  Helen,  finding  none  of  them  to  her  mind, 
called  for  a  discarded  pair  of  blood-red  maroquin,  diapered  with  pearls.  These 
looked  very  distinguished  over  her  white  silk  stockings. 

Meantime,  La  Popeliniere  stepped  forward  with  the  frock. 

"  I  shan't  wear  one  to-night,"  said  Helen.  Then  she  slipped  on  her 
gloves. 

\\  hen  the  toilet  was  at  an  end  all  her  doves  clustered  round  her  feet 
loving  to  froler  her  ankles  with  their  plumes,  and  the  dwarfs  clapped  their 
hands,  and  put  their  fingers  between  their  lips  and  whistled.  Never  before 
had  Helen  been  so  radiant  and  compelling.  Spiridion,  in  the  corner,  looked 
up  from  his  game  of  Spellicans  and  trembled. 

Just  then,  Pranzmungel  announced  that  supper  was  ready  upon  the  fifth 
terrace.     "Ah!"   cried  Helen,  "I'm  famished!" 


CHAPTER     III 

She  was  quite  delighted  with  Fanfreluche,  and,  of  course,  he  sat  next 
her  at   supper. 

The  terrace,  made  beautiful  with  a  thousand  vain  and  fantastical  things, 
and  set   with   a   hundred   tables  and   four    hundred    couches,   presented    a    truly 


UNDER    THE    HILL  [65 

splendid  appearance.  In  the  middle  was  a  huge  bronze  fountain  with  three 
basins.  From  the  first  rose  a  many -breasted  dragon  and  four  little  loves 
mounted  upon  swans,  and  each  love  was  furnished  with  a  bow  and  arrow. 
Two  of  them  that  faced  the  monster  seemed  to  recoil  in  fear,  two  that  were 
behind  made  bold  enough  to  aim  their  shafts  at  him.  From  the  verge  of 
the  second  sprang  a  circle  of  slim  golden  columns  that  supported  silver  doves 
with  tails  and  wings  spread  out.  The  third,  held  by  a  group  of  grotesquely 
attenuated  satyrs,  was  centered  with  a  thin  pipe  hung  with  masks  and  roses 
and  capped  with  children's  heads. 

From  the  mouths  of  the  dragon  and  the  loves,  from  the  swans'  eyes, 
from  the  breasts  of  the  doves,  from  the  satyrs'  horns  and  lips,  from  the  masks 
at  many  points,  and  from  the  childrens'  curls,  the  water  played  profusely, 
cutting  strange  arabesques  and  subtle  figures. 

The  terrace  was  lit  entirely  by  candles.  There  were  four  thousand  of 
them,  not  numbering  those  upon  the  tables.  The  candlesticks  were  of  a 
countless  variety,  and  smiled  with  moulded  cochonneries.  Some  were  twenty 
feet  high,  and  bore  single  candles  that  flared  like  fragrant  torches  over  the 
feast,  and  guttered  till  the  wax  stood  round  the  tops  in  tall  lances.  Some, 
hung  with  dainty  petticoats  of  shining  lustres,  had  a  whole  bevy  of  tapers 
upon  them  devised  in  circles,  in  pyramids,  in  squares,  in  cuneiforms,  in 
single  lines  regimentally  and  in  crescents. 

Then  on  quaint  pedestals  and  Terminal  Gods  and  gracious  pilasters  of 
every  sort,  were  shell-like  vases  of  excessive  fruits  and  flowers  that  hung 
about  and  burst  over  the  edges  and  could  never  be  restrained.  The  orange- 
trees  and  myrtles,  looped  with  vermilion  sashes,  stood  in  frail  porcelain  pots, 
and  the  rose-trees  were  wound  and  twisted  with  superb  invention  over  trellis 
and  standard.  Upon  one  side  of  the  terrace  a  long  gilded  stage  for  the 
comedians  was  curtained  off  with  Pagonian  tapestries,  and  in  front  of  it  the 
music-stands  were  placed. 

The  tables  arranged  between  the  fountain  and  the  flight  of  steps  to  the 
sixth  terrace  were  all  circular,  covered  with  white  damask,  and  strewn  with 
irises,    roses,    kingcups,    colombines,    daffodils,    carnations    and    lilies ;    and    the 


1 66  THE   SAVOY 

couches,  high  with  soft  cushions  and  spread  with  more  stuffs  than  could 
be  named,  had  fans  thrown  upon  them. 

Beyond  the  escalier  stretched  the  gardens,  which  were  designed  so  elabo- 
rately and  with  so  much  splendour  that  the  architect  of  the  Fetes  d'Armailhacq 
could  have  found  in  them  no  matter  for  cavil,  and  the  still  lakes  strewn  with 
profuse  barges  full  of  gay  flowers  and  wax  marionettes,  the  alleys  of  tall 
trees,  the  arcades  and  cascades,  the  pavilions,  the  grottoes  and  the  garden- 
gods — all  took  a  strange  tinge  of  revelry  from  the  glare  of  the  light  that  fell 
upon  them  from  the  feast. 

The  frockless  Helen  and  Fanfreluche,  with  Mrs.  Marsuple  and  Claude 
and  Clair,  and  Farcy,  the  chief  comedian,  sat  at  the  same  table.  Fanfreluche, 
who  had  doffed  his  travelling  suit,  wore  long  black  silk  stockings,  a  pair  of 
pretty  garters,  a  very  elegant  ruffled  shirt,  slippers  and  a  wonderful  dressing- 
gown  ;  and  Farcy  was  in  ordinary  evening  clothes.  As  for  the  rest  of  the 
company,  it  boasted  some  very  noticeable  dresses,  and  whole  tables  of  quite 
delightful  coiffures.  There  were  spotted  veils  that  seemed  to  stain  the  skin, 
fans  with  eye-slits  in  them,  through  which  the  bearers  peeped  and  peered ; 
fans  painted  with  figures  and  covered  with  the  sonnets  of  Sporion  and  the 
short  stories  of  Scaramouch  ;  and  fans  of  big,  hving  moths  stuck  upon  mounts 
of  silver  sticks.  There  were  masks  of  green  velvet  that  make  the  face  look 
trebly  powdered  :  masks  of  the  heads  of  birds,  of  apes,  of  serpents,  of  dolphins, 
of  men  and  women,  of  little  embryons  and  of  cats  ;  masks  like  the  faces  of 
gods  ;  masks  of  coloured  glass,  and  masks  of  thin  talc  and  of  india-rubber. 
There  were  wigs  of  black  and  scarlet  wools,  of  peacocks'  feathers,  of  gold  and 
silver  threads,  of  swansdown,  of  the  tendrils  of  the  vine,  and  of  human  hair  : 
huge  collars  of  stiff  muslin  rising  high  above  the  head  ;  whole  dresses  of  ostrich 
feathers  curling  inwards  ;  tunics  of  panthers'  skins  that  looked  beautiful  over 
pink  tights  ;  capotes  of  crimson  satin  trimmed  with  the  wings  of  owls  ;  sleeves 
cut  into  the  shapes  of  apocryphal  animals :  drawers  flounced  down  to  the 
ankles,  and  necked  with  tiny,  red  roses  ;  stockings  clocked  with  fetes  galantes, 
and  curious  designs ;  and  petticoats  cut  like  artificial  flowers.  Some  of  the 
women    had    put    on    delightful   little    moustaches   dyed   in    purples   and    bright 


UNDER    THE   HILL  o„, 

greens,  twisted  and  waxed  with  absolute  skill  ;  and  some  wore  great  white 
beards,  after  the  manner  of  Saint  Wilgeforte.  Then  Dorat  had  painted  extra- 
ordinary grotesques  and  vignettes  over  their  bodies,  here  and  there.  Upon  a 
cheek,  an  old  man  scratching  his  horned  head  ;  upon  a  forehead,  an  old 
woman  teased  by  an  impudent  amor  ;  upon  a  shoulder,  an  amorous  singerie  ; 
round  a  breast,  a  circlet  of  satyrs ;  about  a  wrist,  a  wreath  of  pale,  unconscious 
babes;  upon  an  elbow,  a  bouquet  of  spring  flowers;  across  a  back,  some  sur- 
prising scenes  of  adventure  ;  at  the  corners  of  a  mouth,  tiny  red  spots  ;  anil 
upon  a  neck,  a  flight  of  birds,  a  caged  parrot,  a  branch  of  fruit,  a  butterfly,  a 
spider,  a  drunken  dwarf,  or,  simply,  some  initials. 

The  supper  provided  by  the  ingenious  Rambouillet  was  quite  beyond 
parallel.  Never  had  he  created  a  more  exquisite  menu.  The  consomme  im- 
promptu alone  would  have  been  sufficient  to  establish  the  immortal  reputation 
of  any  chef.  What,  then,  can  I  say  of  the  Doradc  bouillic  sauce  marcchale,  the 
ragout  aux  tongues  de  carpes,  the  ratnereaux  a  la  charniere,  the  ciboulrttc  dc  gibicr 
a  Vespagnole,  the  pate  dc  cuisses  d'oie  aux  pots  dc  Monsalvie,  the  queues  d'agneau  au 
clair  dc  lime,  the  artichauts  a  la  grecque,  the  charlotte  dc  pommes  a  la  Lucy  Waters, 
the  bomlies  a  la  marie,  and  the  glaces  aux  rayons  d'or  ?  A  veritable  tour  de  cuisine 
that  surpassed  even  the  famous  little  suppers  given  by  the  Marquis  de  Rechale 
at  Passy,  and  which  the  Abbe  Mirliton  pronounced  "  impeccable,  and  too  good 
to  be  eaten." 

Ah  !  Pierre  Antoine  Berquin  de  Rambouillet  ;  you  are  worthy  of  your 
divine  mistress  ! 

Mere  hunger  quickly  gave  place  to  those  finer  instincts  of  the  pure 
gourmet,  and  the  strange  wines,  cooled  in  buckets  of  snow,  unloosed  all  the 
decollete  spirits  of  astonishing  conversation  and  atrocious  laughter. 

As  the  courses  advanced,  the  conversation  grew  bustling  and  more 
personal.  Pulex  and  Cyril,  and  Marisca  and  Cathelin,  opened  a  fire  of 
raillery,  and  a  thousand  amatory  follies  of  the  day  were  discussed. 

From  harsh  and  shrill  and  clamant,  the  voices  grew  blurred  and 
inarticulate.  Bad  sentences  were  helped  out  by  worse  gestures,  and  at  one 
table   Scabius  expressed    himself  like   the  famous  old    knight   in   the   first   part 


170  THE    SAVOY 

of  the  "  Soldier's  Fortune  "  of  Otway.  Bassalissa  and  Lysistrata  tried  to 
pronounce  each  other's  names,  and  became  very  affectionate  in  the  attempt  ; 
and  Tala,  the  tragedian,  robed  in  roomy  purple,  and  wearing  plume  and 
buskin,  rose  to  his  feet,  and,  with  swaying  gestures,  began  to  recite  one  of 
his  favourite  parts.  He  got  no  further  than  the  first  line,  but  repeated  it 
again  and  again,  with  fresh  accents  and  intonations  each  time,  and  was  only 
silenced  by  the  approach  of  the  asparagus  that  was  being  served  by  satyrs 
dressed   in   white. 


f'-'.'-A      ':',     ■-}     :| 

i  1 1 

:i;^  i  1 

v\i  f 

?!  -S  : 

••'•'  "  V!^1-'    ■':'•..     V 

Ha  ;H § 

^zi   -. ' 

•  :'■';:  Si:;-  v:: 

...  *| 

■■■'.-'  -\ 

*..■      -i;.-.        '     -: 

\ .  'r  •     V'-. 

ip 

i    / 

F/ 

■k^ 

^    - 

.    |:"  On®. .   !    ;  - 

jf 

~v  ?._:':;'7 ' 

vfi 

r^^'--;:i-  -'fe "'-'i 

ELfe 

4^ 

.  "V'  ^«~' 

-a  •]  •  - 
*     /     ,,, 

m    3v%' 

?%^i  s 

«•!$   :i»)«ft%H 

Cjg'*** 

*•  *  . 

*    T«J~      * 

*vP-^C 

L-.  ^f,         M 

.*  *  i 

*.••*.?    f>    .■: 

£                   y>- 

•        ft /J 

-  '^Mr 

3flkfr    ^ 

%  \Sl 

#w2ar « ; 

ifc 

4S* 

wi$k 

Mb  fmtyj. 3m 

t^.. 

0        P    ,$•» 

*  ill  A 

btVr  1 

LEONARD 


5MITHER5 


V 


THE   SAVOY— N°  II 


THE  SAVOY 


No.  2 


AN    ILLUSTRATED    QUARTERLY 

April  1896 


Price 


» 


>l$f* 


Hrf 


% 


No.  2 

April 
1896 


0j 


ARTHUR 
SYMONS 


K^ 


LEONARD  SMITHERS 

ARUNDEL   STREET,    STRAND 
LONDON  W.C. 


CHISWICK    PRESS: — CHARLES    WHITT1NGHAM    AND  CO..    TOOKS   CODRT.    CHANCERY   LANE,    LONDON 


Rrj^r 

EDITORIAL    NOTE 

N  presenting  to  the  public  the  second  number  of 
"  The  Savoy,"  I  wish  to  thank  the  critics  of 
the  press  for  the  flattering  reception  which  they 
have  given  to  No.  i.  That  reception  has  been 
none  the  less  flattering  because  it  has  been  for 
the  most  part  unfavourable.  Any  new  endeavour  lends  itself, 
alike  by  its  merits  and  by  its  defects,  to  the  disapproval  of  the 
larger  number  of  people.  And  it  is  always  possible  to  learn  from 
any  vigorously  expressed  denunciation,  not,  perhaps,  what  the 
utterer  of  that  denunciation  intended  should  be  learnt.  I  confess 
cheerfully  that  I  have  learnt  much  from  the  newspaper  criticisms 
of  the  first  number  of  "  The  Savoy."  It  is  with  confidence 
that  I  anticipate  no  less  instruction  from  the  criticisms  which  I 
shall  have  the  pleasure  of  reading  on  the  number  now  issued. 

Arthur  Symons. 


April,  1896. 


All  communications  should  be  directed  to  THE  EDITOR  OF 
The  Savoy,  Effingham  House,  Arundel  Street,  Strand,  London, 
W.C.  MSS.  should  be  type-written,  and  stamps  inclosed  for 
their  return. 


LITERARY   CONTENTS 

PAGE 

EDITORIAL  NOTE 5 

A  MAD  SAINT.     An  Article  by  Cesare  Lombroso  (translated  by  Havelock 

Ellis) 13 

NEW  YEAR'S  EVE.     A  Poem  by  Arthur  Symons 25 

A  MERE  MAN.     By  a  New  Writer 26 

SAINT-GERMAINEN-LA  YE.     A  Poem  by  Ernest  Dowson    .         .         .55 

ROSA  ALCHEMICA.     A  Story  by  W.  B.  Yeats 56 

FRIEDRICH  NIETZSCHE— I.     An  Article  by  Havelock  Elli.s       .  79 

THE  FORGE.     A  Poem  by  John  Gray 97 

THE     DETERIORATION    OF    NANCY.       A    Story    by    Frederick 

WEDMORE  ............         go 

TWO  POEMS  CONCERNING  PEASANT  VISIONARIES— A  Cradle 

Song :  "  The  Valley  of the  Black  Pig."     By  W.  B.  Yeats     .         .         .         .109 

PAUL   VERLAINE. 

I. — A  First  Sight  of  Verlaine.     By  Edmund  Gosse     .         .         .         -113 
II. —  Verlaine  in  1894.     By  W.  B.Yeats       .         .         .         .         .         -117 

III. — My  Visit  to  London.     By  Paul  Verlaine  (translated  by  Arthur 

Symons    .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .119 

THE  LOVE  OF  THE  POOR.     A  Poem  by  Leila  Macdonald  (illustrated)     139 
PAGES   FROM    THE   LIFE    OF  LUCY  NEWCOME.      A  Story  by 

Arthur  Symons       147 

THE  TRUANT'S  HOLIDAY.     A  Poem  by  Selwyn  Image        .         .         .163 
ON  THE   KIND    OF  FICTION  CALLED   MORBID.      An  Essay  by 

Vincent  O'Sullivan 167 

COUNTESS  MARIE  OF  THE  ANGELS.     A  Story  by  Ernest  Dowson     173 
UNDER     THE     HILL.        A    Romantic    Story    by    Aubrey    Beardsley 

(Chapter  IV.,  illustrated  by  the  Author) 187 

PUBLISHER'S  NOTE i97 


ART   CONTENTS 


COVER   ■         -\  | 

TITLE  PAGE  f  DesiS°ed  b>'  AuBREY  Beardslev  j 

SALTWATER.     A  Lithograph  by  Charles  H.  Shannon    . 
CLASSIC  LONDON.     After  a  Pen-and-ink  Drawing  by  Joseph  Pennell 
PORTRAIT  OF  MRS.    STERNER.      After  a  Pencil  Drawing  by  Albert 

E.  Sterner       ........... 

THREE   VISIONS.     After  Pen-and-ink  Drawings  by  William  T.  Horton 
THE  BACCHANTES.     After  a  VVater-Colour  Drawing  by  Ph.  Caresme 
THE  RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK.     After  a  Pen-and-ink  Drawing  by  Aubrey 

Beardsley        ....... 

THE  DIVE.     A  Lithograph  by  Charles  H.  Shannon 

A   VIGNETTE  .\  (     . 

.    „rrr  „„  r  M  ,„„„  \  By  Wm.  T.  Horton  \ 
A  CUL-DE-LAMPE  \      '  I     . 

THE    RIALTO,     VENICE.       After   a    Pen-and-ink    Drawing    by   Walter 

SlCKERT      ...... 

CA  RICA  TURE   OF  A  UBRE  Y  BEARDSLE  Y.     A  Wood-Engraving  after 
the  Drawing  by  Max  Beerbohm         ..... 

TWO  LADIES.     After  an  Oil-Painting  by  Will  Rothenstein 

THE  MERMAID'S  CAVE.     By  J.  Lemmen 

A  FOOTNOTE 

THE  ASCENSION  OF  SAINT  ROSE  OF 
LIMA 

FOR  THE  THIRD  TAB  LEA  U  OF  "  DAS 
RHEINGOLD" 

COVER  OF  NO.  i   OF  "  THE  SAVOY"    . 

CO  VER  OF  NO.  2  OF  "  THE  SA  VO  Y"    . 


After  Pen-and-ink 
Drawings  by     -l 
Aubrey  Beardsley 


23 

53 

7' 
95 

1 1  i 
•37 
139 

144 

'45 

161 
>65 
'7i 
185 

[89 

■93 
199 


The  Whole  of  the  Reproductions  in  this  Volume,  in  line  and  half-tone  blocks,  and  the 
Wood  Engraving,  are  by  Mr.   Paul  Xaumann. 


\> 


-^w 


' 


■/ 


'   j£ 


: 


A    MAD    SAINT 

FEW  months  since  a  certain  Maria  G.  appeared  at  my 
clinique.  She  was  forty  years  of  age,  her  voice  was  mascu- 
line in  character,  her  forehead  was  high  and  remarkably 
broad,  her  jaw  and  cheek-bones  more  massive  than  we 
usually  find  in  women.  Her  head  also  was  somewhat  above 
the  average  in  size.  Touch  was  rather  obtuse,  but  sensitive- 
ness to  pain  almost  normal.  It  was  observed,  however,  that  she  blushed  only 
on  one  side  of  her  face  and  forehead,  and  on  this  side  also  there  was  abundant 
perspiration,  while  the  other  side  was  quite  dry  and  pale.  Her  father  had 
died  in  an  asylum  ;  her  mother  was  healthy,  and  so  were  four  brothers  and  a 
sister.  This  last,  however,  was  subject  to  fits.  She  herself  suffered  from 
various  neuralgic  pains,  and  from  hysterical  convulsions. 

As  a  girl  she  wished  to  become  a  nun  ;  but,  instead,  she  married,  at 
eighteen,  a  man  whom  she  respected,  but  for  whom  she  had  no  love.  She 
married  him,  against  the  wishes  of  her  friends,  solely  to  obey  the  will  of  God. 
She  has  had  eight  children,  of  whom  five  are  living. 

Ever  since  she  was  a  child  she  has  heard  voices,  and  seen  wonderful 
visions  of  the  Madonna  and  the  saints  ;  also  of  evil  spirits  in  the  likeness  of 
beasts,  monsters  which  inspired  her  with  great  terror,  and  she  was  thus 
regarded  as  mad.  This  recalls  what  Calmeil  tells  us  concerning  various 
nuns,  especially  Maddalena,  whose  hallucinations  began  at  five.  But  it  was 
not  until  the  age  of  fourteen,  after  being  unwell  for  three  days,  that  she 
had  an  apparition,  in  a  great  flash  of  light  that  filled  the  room,  of  God 
Himself,  clothed  in  garments  so  dazzling  that  she  could  not  fix  her  eyes  upon 
Him,  and  bearing  in  His  hand  a  sword  which  He  placed  across  the  bed.  She 
still  has  such  visual  and  auditory  hallucinations  very  frequently  ;  at  these  times 
she  ceases  speaking,  bends  her  head  very  low,  and  weeps.  She  tells  also  that 
she  has  seen  the  eyes  in  a  little  picture  of  Jesus  fixed  upon  her  full  of  love, 
and  following  her  all  over  the  house,  and  she  says  that  one  day  she  saw  them 
closed,  as  a  reproof  to  an  offence  on  her  part. 

To  the  commands  she  has  thus  received  from  the  Volere  Supremo,  she 
refers  the  greater  number  of  her  acts,  and  frequently  offers  no  further  justifica- 


i4  THE    SAVOY 

tion  of  them  ;  thus  she  asserts  that  she  was  commanded  by  God  to  feign 
madness  in  order  to  enter  an  asylum,  and  there  fulfil  to  the  utmost  her  mission 
of  fighting  Satan,  because  there,  she  said,  they  whip  people  like  beasts.  Her 
acts  were,  in  fact,  so  strange,  that  she  was  shut  up  in  an  asylum,  where  for 
some  days  she  was  the  victim  of  further  delirium,  and  she  remained  there  for 
three  years. 

Now  she  lives  at  home,  fairly  tranquil,  attending  well  to  her  domestic 
affairs,  and  to  her  occupation  of  straw-plaiting  chairs.  She  dresses  neatly,  is 
devoted  to  her  children,  and  weeps  when  she  speaks  of  those  who  are  dead. 
She  weeps  also  when  she  tells  of  her  mother's  recent  death,  though  latterly 
there  had  been  no  intercourse  between  them  ;  so  that  her  affection  towards  her 
family  appears  to  be  normal.  With  her  husband  also  she  gets  on  fairly  well, 
although  he  reproves  her  for  the  strange  ideas  she  has  in  her  head,  and  once 
turned  her  out  of  the  house.  On  the  other  hand  she  hates  her  mother-in-law, 
who  interferes  with  the  pleasure  she  takes  in  writing  ;  thus  she  is  not  able  to 
devote  time  to  the  laborious  preparations  of  her  very  numerous  manuscripts 
in  verse  and  prose,  except  for  a  few  hours  after  dawn,  when  she  is  alone.  The 
verse,  however,  she  composes  in  her  head,  not  when  she  wishes  to,  but  as  it 
comes  to  her. 

Her  instincts  appear  to  be  chaste.  She  tells  how,  when  she  was  a  girl, 
she  repelled  the  advances  of  a  priest,  and  again,  after  she  was  married,  of  a 
canon,  a  monk,  and  an  abbot.  The  education  which  she  received  as  a  child 
from  her  mother  does  not  seem  to  have  been  very  religious,  at  all  events  not 
sufficiently  so  to  have  determined  her  precocious  inclinations.  She  only 
attended  an  elementary  school,  and  cared  little  for  reading  afterwards ;  but 
she  read  over  and  over  again  a  book  of  religious  devotion  entitled,  "  L'Anima 
Desolata  Confortata  a  patire  cristianamente,"  to  which  title  she  has  added  in 
her  own  handwriting,  "  Per  Amor  di  Dio,"  and  also  the  following  remark  : — 
"This  book  is  the  greatest  treasure  I  have  had  in  this  world."  Certainly  her 
own  writings,  however  strange  and  incomprehensible  they  may  be,  always 
manifest  an  intelligence  above  her  condition  and  the  instruction  she  has 
received. 

She  believes  that,  although  wholly  unworthy,  she  has  been  charged  by 
the  Gran  Sovran  del  Cielo  with  an  illuminative  and  redemptive  mission  among 
men  ;  and  regarding  this  mission  she  writes — in  large  and  clear  characters, 
with  enormous  capital  letters  and  long  strokes,  in  a  fairly  correct  style — large 
pages  of  verse  or  long  letters  to  alienists,  to  priests,  to  the  King  and  Queen. 
The  contents  are  uniformly  the  same  ;  she  announces  her  mission  to  each, 


A   MAD   SAINT  15 

always  saying  that  she  is  writing  by  command  of  God,  and  promising  honour 
and  profit  to  those  who  follow  her.  Yet  from  all  her  very  numerous  writings 
and  oral  declarations  it  is  impossible  to  ascertain  the  ideas  that  lie  at  the  basis 
of  this  mission  ;  perhaps  her  mind  is  not  able  to  form  such  ideas  ;  perhaps  she 
possesses  that  unconscious  consciousness  of  absurdity  which  Amadei  has 
acutely  noted  in  mattoids.  Once  only  she  refers  in  her  writings  to  the  con- 
stitution of  a  Compagnia  dei  Fedeli  Cristiani  beneath  the  protection  of  the 
Gran  Madre  Maria  Addolorata ;  and  in  conversation  she  alludes  to  certain 
(imaginary  ?)  followers. 

For  the  rest,  she  declares  that  she  is  inspired  by  the  Virgin,  although  she 
is  working  for  the  Saviour  ;  she  hates  those  who  are  outside  the  truth,  and 
wishes  to  correct  them  and  spiritualize  them  ;  she  would  cut  off  the  heads  of 
the  unfaithful  with  the  tremendous  sword  of  God,  though  this  is  only  a 
spiritual  weapon.  She  uses  such  ferocious  metaphors  frequently.  She  justi- 
fied herself  by  saying  that  if  any  of  the  students  who  heard  her  declarations 
should  go  and  repeat  what  they  had  heard  to  priests,  it  would  be  to  these 
latter  like  the  blow  of  a  dagger. 

She  accepts  Christian  dogma,  but  with  modifications.  Thus  when  the 
Gran  Dio  del  Cielo  had  driven  Adam  and  Eve  out  of  Paradise,  He  told 
them  that  He  would  send  a  woman  to  purify  and  "  mend "  the  world. 
"  And  with  all  my  demerits  I  am  that  woman,  the  servant  of  the  great 
God,  the  queen  of  the  whole  world  ;  for  in  myself  I  am  nothing,  but  in 
the  name  of  the  great  God  I  am  everything  ;  and  if  I  accomplish  any  good 
thing  here,  the  merit  will  be  His."  And  in  connection  with  this  she  calls 
herself,  and  often  signs  herself,  "  Regina  Salviati,"  that  is  to  say,  "  Queen  of 
the  Saved." 

Repeatedly  and  insistently  asked  to  expound  to  us  her  doctrines,  she  formu- 
lated them  thus  :  If  you  want  to  be  happy  you  have  to  learn  how  to  thoroughly 
concentrate  yourself  in  the  great  God  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  then  to  re- 
cognize in  her  the  saviour,  not  as  the  supreme  judge  but  as  His  representative, 
and  she  only  recognizes  those  disciples  who  believe  in  Christ  who  died  on  the 
cross  and  in  St.  Joseph. 

She  respects  the  Christian  Church,  but  wishes  to  pull  up  the  evil  weeds, 
that  is  to  say,  bad  priests,  whom  she  considers  responsible  for  the  wickedness 
of  the  world,  but  with  strange  want  of  logic  she  carries  out  all  religious 
practices. 

The  Madonna  cannot  be  the  mother  of  God  who  is  uncreated,  because 
otherwise  she  would  be  the  supreme  principle  ;  only  as  the  handmaid  of  His 


16  THE   SAVOY 

spirit  has  God  permitted  her  to  be  worshipped.  The  spirit  of  Christ  will 
reappear  in  the  world  in  the  person  of  a  certain  priest,  a  brother  of  hers, 
and  then  there  will  be  a  general  day  of  judgment,  which  she  announces  as 
near,  and  the  justice  of  God  having  assured  the  triumph  of  the  just  on  earth, 
the  world  will  live  a  better  life,  and  will  not  end  in  a  shower  of  fire,  as  the 
priests  say.  This  idea  of  the  reform  of  the  world  is  certainly  the  same  as 
that  of  Christ,  who,  as  Renan  says  in  his  "Vie  de  J^sus,"  when  seated  as 
judge  of  the  world  in  the  midst  of  His  apostles,  is  the  exact  representation 
of  that  conception  of  the  Son  of  man,  the  first  lines  of  which  are  already  to 
be  seen  so  strongly  drawn  in  the  Book  of  Daniel.  But  she  lessens  and 
abuses  the  conception  by,  for  instance,  apportioning  the  duties  we  are  each 
to  have  in  the  reformed  world.  She  naturally  promises  a  different  future 
to  the  good  and  those  who  respect  her  sayings  from  that  ordained  for 
the  bad,  "  because  God  has  not  made  Heaven  for  traitors,  and  Hell  to  be 
kept  empty ;  "  she  will  pardon  if  God  will  pardon  ;  if  not,  she  is  ready 
to  put  a  dagger  (probably  always  a  spiritual  weapon)  into  the  hearts  of  those 
traitors. 

Of  all  this  she  speaks  confusedly,  as  if  she  did  not  wish  to  be  interrupted 
in  her  discourse,  but  she  converses  much  and  willingly.  She  distributes  her 
numerous  manuscripts,  nearly  all  in  verse,  to  the  students.  She  frequently 
sings  the  Psalms  in  Latin  with  passionate  animation  and  large  movements  of 
the  arms,  explaining  the  significance  of  what  she  sings.  There  is  a  notable 
tendency  to  musical  intonation  in  her  replies  to  the  questions  put  to  her, 
which  she  sometimes  sings,  always  adapting  the  same  air  to  her  various 
poems.  The  metre  of  these  is,  however,  nearly  always  the  same,  very 
sonorous,  in  rhymed  quatrains  of  ten  syllables ;  but  the  rhymes  are  often 
only  assonances,  and  the  last  line  of  each  stanza  is  cut  short.  Sometimes 
while  singing  she  falls  into  a  condition  of  true  ecstasy ;  the  eyeballs  are 
turned  upwards,  the  eyelids  become  fixed,  the  arms  extended,  and  she  is  able 
to  support  a  much  stronger  electric  current  than  that  which  gives  her  pain 
under  normal  conditions. 

This  persistent  use  of  melody  and  rhythm  certainly  represents  an  atavistic 
return  to  primitive  musical  methods  of  expression  which  commonly  accom- 
panied emotional  states  among  our  ancestors.  It  is  a  kind  of  mental 
palaeontology,  as  Letourneau  also  has  noted  ; '  and  it  corresponds  exactly  to 
the  vague,  uniform,  undifferentiated  condition  of  her  ideas. 

1  "  Revue  de  l'Ecole  d' Anthropologic,"  Nov.  15th,  1892. 


A   MAD   SAINT  17 

The  whole  of  this  attitude,  the  convinced  and  absolute  fashion  in  which 
she  enunciates  her  dogmas,  the  security  with  which  in  every  great  con- 
tingency of  life  she  trusts  to  the  voice  of  the  Volere  Supremo,  not  only 
recall  and  in  part  repeat  what  all  the  saints  of  religious  history  have  done,  but 
they  explain  the  force  of  attraction,  and  the  suggestive  power,  which  such 
phenomena  exerted  on  popular  masses  under  other  conditions  of  culture  and 
feeling. 

It  is  also  instructive  to  note  her  method  of  action,  which  is  described 
as  by  divine  impulse,  working  through  an  automaton.  "  Under  spiritual 
influence,"  she  says,  "  a  person  is  not  free,  and  I  am  even  compelled  to  act 
for  my  own  temporal  disadvantage,  without  any  reserve,  ready  to  undergo 
martyrdom,  even  if  the  gibbet  were  standing  ready  ;  and  if  the  least  act 
on  my  part,  even  the  slightest  word,  would  save  me  from  martyrdom,  I 
would  not  try  to  save  myself,  not  for  the  whole  world."  "  Pushed  on,"  she 
writes,  "  by  a  supreme  spiritual  power,  I  set  down  these  things,  writing  all 
that  the  supreme  spirit  suggests  to  me  to  write."  She  declared,  also,  that  she 
"  was  driven  "  by  God  to  come  to  the  dinique,  although  she  doubted  if  she 
would  find  anyone  there. 

Thus  her  own  personality  occupies  nearly  the  whole  of  her  mind,  her 
conversation,  her  writings  ;  and,  as  if  to  accentuate  this  characteristic,  she 
always  writes  the  personal  pronouns  referring  to  herself  with  an  initial  capital. 
And  yet  amid  the  chaos  and  simplicity  of  her  ideas,  the  uniformity  and 
commonplace  of  their  manifestation,  a  stroke  of  genius  here  and  there  flashes 
across  the  insanity.  One  day  she  improvised  a  logical  and  excellent  discourse 
to  the  university  students  who  were  late  in  their  attendance,  lamenting  the 
recent  disorders  among  them  as  not  only  evil  in  themselves,  but  as  bringing 
grief  and  shame  to  the  professors,  etc.  Among  her  very  numerous  writings  in 
verse,  slovenly  and  full  of  errors  as  they  often  are,  some  are  really  beautiful,  and 
contain  phrases  and  passages  marked  by  fine  feeling  and  insight.  "The  justice 
of  the  great  God  of  Heaven,"  she  writes,  "  is  not  paid  by  gold  or  silver." 
"  My  mind,"  she  writes  again  (in  words  that,  in  the  original,  tend  to  run  into 
rhyme),  "will  only  ally  itself  with  reverence  and  justice;  and  my  heart  is  not 
caught  save  by  reverence  and  gentleness."  And  in  verse  :  "  But  the  sorrow- 
ing servant — Of  our  Lord — Possesses  new  hopes. — Already  his  heart  opens. — 
O  you  who  live — In  a  deceitful  world, — Open  your  eyes — To  the  true 
light."  And  again  :  "  I  am  no  woman  of  proud  ways — I  am  the  handmaid 
of  our  Lord  ; — On  my  head  there  is  a  crown— All  adorned  with  laurel  and 
honour. — I  am  faithful  to  the  everlasting  Lord— And  no  deceit  can   make 


18  THE   SAVOY 

me  waver : — And  though  I  am  but  a  lowly  flower — I  am  queen  of  the  great 
deep  sea.' " 

Yet  these  fugitive  gleams  of  mental  brilliancy  not  only  heighten  the 
general  vacuity,  but  accentuate  strange  references  and  hints,  sudden  falls  into 
the  commonplace,  and  often  the  comic,  which,  with  their  painful  contrasts, 
characterize  the  psychic  contents  of  such  unbalanced  brains.  For  example  : 
"  I  will  take  him  up  into  the  train  and  conduct  him  to  eternal  life  ;  "  "I  will 
give  myself  up  to  the  Gran  Voler  Supremo  and  leave  to  his  lordship  to  con- 
sider with  the  telescope  of  the  Just  and  Supreme  Divine  Justice  this  my 
deposition." 

Nor  are  there  also  lacking  in  her  writings  and  her  discourse  those  frequent 
and  insistent  repetitions  of  words,  the  strange  metaphorical  appellations,  the 
emphatic  air,  which  give  a  special  imprint  of  solemnity  to  the  religious  style  of 
every  epoch.  Here  also  these  characters  are  due  to  analogous  conditions, 
that  is  to  say,  that  all  effort  is  applied  to  the  task  of  impressing  the  imagina- 
tion of  the  hearers  by  vaporous  and  solemn  phrases,  rather  than  to  that  of  con- 
vincing them  by  the  force  of  reason  ;  it  is  as  though  the  evidence  of  the 
proclaimed  truths  disdained — and  with  good  reason — all  human  arguments. 
"  Tell  me,  my  children,"  she  writes,  "  what  have  you  done  for  me  to  acquire 
the  strongest  affection  of  my  heart  ?  Nothing  :  then  it  is  God  who  deigns  to 
bind  my  heart  to  a  lofty  and  supernatural  affection  towards  you."  "  To  write 
of  my  Lord  I  have  detached  myself  from  all  the  things  of  the  world,  and  they 
who  would  follow  me  must  also  detach  themselves  from  the  things  of  the 
world  .  .  .  with  the  sole  thought  of  serving  God  faithfully  in  order  to  win  the 
great  prize  of  honour  for  eternal  life."  "  Oh,  this  miserable  and  unworthy 
creature  that  I  am,  Thy  miserable  and  unworthy  servant,  Thy  miserable  and 
unworthy  daughter  .  .  .  and  I  will  say  it  again  and  again." 

To  the  same  unfailing  elements  of  every  religious  movement  belong  the 
prophecies  which  M.  makes  concerning  the  coming  of  God  on  earth,  the 
approaching  universal  judgment,  and  the  glorious  and  fruitful  future  which 
awaits  the  good  cause,  as  well  as  certain  miracles  which  she  has  already  accom- 

1       "  Non  son  donna  di  vani  costumi, 
Son  1'  ancella  del  nostro  Signor  ; 

Sul  mio  capo  ci  sta  una  corona 
Tutta  guarnita  di  lauro  e  d'  onor. 

Io  son  costante  all'  eterno  Signore, 
E  niun  inganno  puo  farmi  tremar  : 

E  bench'  Io  sia  un  misero  fiore  .  .  . 
Son  Regina  dell'  alto  gran  mar." 


A    MAD   SAINT  19 

plished,  professing  that  she  has  prevented  an  outbreak  of  war  between  Africa 
and  Italy. 

To  this  now  well-defined  form  of  religious  insanity  are  associated,  as 
often  happens,  though  usually  in  a  more  accentuated  degree,  erotic  insanity 
and  the  insanity  of  persecution.  This  last,  however,  is  very  slight  and  is 
directed  in  part  against  the  priests,  in  part  against  the  attendants  and  sisters 
at  the  asylum,  and  especially  the  doctor  under  whose  care  she  was  placed, 
and  against  whom,  with  much  abusive  language,  she  brings  the  usual  vague 
accusations  of  offences  against  her  spirit  and  body. 

The  erotic  clement  is  more  distinctly  marked  ;  in  her  writings  and 
discourses  M.  frequently  recalls  the  name  of  a  young  gentleman  who  "  because 
of  his  religious  wanderings  "  had  to  suffer  grave  danger  in  Africa,  from  which 
danger  she  and  no  other  could  deliver  him,  or,  as  she  says,  "  repair  him  in 
body  and  mind  from  that  terrible  exile,  offering  her  life  to  the  Great  God  of 
Heaven  to  expiate  the  faults  accounted  for  guilt  to  Christians."  In  the  same 
way,  but  more  explicitly,  she  expresses  herself  in  her  verses,  which  reflect  her 
thoughts  more  faithfully  and  unconsciously.  In  these  are  many  expressions 
of  affection  and  praise  concerning  this  youth,  whom  she  invokes  as  the 
imaginary  head  of  armies,  a  dear  companion  and  man  of  pure  faith  ;  as  well  as 
in  the  replies,  strangely  veiled  in  spiritual  mysticism,  which  she  makes  to 
questions  on  this  subject.  She  confesses  also  that  she  recalls  seeing  some 
of  her  visions  of  God  under  the  aspect  of  this  gentleman.  Yet  she  only 
appears  to  have  seen  him  occasionally,  and  it  is  not  possible  to  guess  the 
circumstances  which  may  have  caused,  if  they  have  not  justified,  the  direction 
which  M.'s  erotic  affections  have  taken. 

Altruism,  which  is  the  highest  and  noblest  human  note  in  the  doctrines 
and  works  of  nearly  all  great  religious  reformers — as  though  from  the  mystic 
contemplation  of  the  superhuman,  and  man's  annihilation  before  it,  grew  a 
more  vivid  feeling  of  the  equality  and  fraternity  of  all  human  creatures — shows 
itself,  though  only  by  brief  hints,  in  the  writings  of  M.  In  several  places  she 
affirms  that  she  would  do  nothing  to  avoid  martyrdom,  not  fearing  prisons, 
nor  kings,  nor  anything  else,  but  only  the  Virgin.  And  in  alluding  to  the 
poor  she  exclaims :  "  O  you  miserable  of  the  earth,  oppressed  by  pain," 
offering  them  guidance  and  help  ;  and  again,  when  she  asserts  she  had  feigned 
madness,  so  that  she  had  almost  voluntarily  entered  an  asylum  because  the 
Volere  Supremo  had  laid  on  her  the  burden  of  a  mission  to  men.  In  this  way 
she  often  declares  herself  mad,  and  signs  her  name  as  the  poor  Maria  of  the 
mad  people — "  povere  Maria  dei  pazzi " — as  a  title  that  the  Lord  had  given 

B 


20  THE   SAVOY 

her.  All  this,  however,  contrasts  with  her  rebellion  against  the  doctors  and 
attendants  on  entering  the  asylum  ;  this  was  indeed  so  violent  that  it  rendered 
necessary  the  application  of  the  strait-jacket. 

Apart  from  this,  it  is  certain  that  her  mind  is  not  able  to  appreciate,  and 
still  less  to  conceive,  the  whole  sublimity  of  the  idea  of  altruism.  Such 
incapacity  is  revealed  in  the  poverty  and  individualism  of  all  her  conceptions, 
as  well  as  by  the  strangeness  and  inco-ordination  into  which  any  informing 
idea,  any  trace  of  system,  rapidly  falls.  Yet  the  neuropathic  foundation, 
certain  analogies  of  expression,  certain  other  psychic  affinities,  render  her  a 
crude  and  rudimental  example  of  a  saint,  a  religious  reformer. 

I  have  presented  this  case  in  all  its  details,  excluding  the  more  technical, 
because  it  really  constitutes  a  valuable  document  which  shows  us,  in  the  first 
place,  how  genius  often  arises  from  a  matrix  of  insanity.  Here  is  an  ordinary 
uneducated  woman  who  suddenly  becomes  a  poet,  in  a  rude  fashion,  and  an 
inventor  of  musical  rhythms.  But  perhaps  the  phenomenon  is  more  interesting 
from  the  point  of  view  of  hagiology,  because  of  the  light  it  throws  on  sanctity. 
This  workwoman  who  thought  more  of  others  than  of  herself,  who  troubled 
herself  all  day  long  over  public  morality,  who  justly  reproves  the  university 
students,  who  robs  herself  of  her  due  nightly  rest,  after  fulfilling  all  her  family 
duties,  in  order  to  devote  herself  to  her  religious  writings,  presents  a  manifesta- 
tion of  sanctity,  also  breaking  forth  from  the  matrix  of  paranoia,  in  evidence 
of  the  effect  of  hereditary  insanity. 

It  is  true  that  such  cases  are  very  rare  :  among  thousands  of  mad 
people  I  have  only  met  with  this  case :  whether  it  is  that  in  such  persons  the 
accompanying  delusions  of  persecution,  ambition,  etc.,  too  greatly  preoccupy 
the  mind  to  leave  any  care  for  the  hagiological  form,  or  that  it  here  assumes 
a  more  prominent  form  by  virtue  of  greater  intelligence  and  greater  energy. 

But  perhaps  the  cause  of  this  rarity  may  be  of  a  very  different  order.  It 
is  probable  that  the  prevalence  of  saints  in  past  ages,  as  compared  with  our 
own  days,  may  be  first  of  all  due  to  the  fact  that  religious  preoccupations 
being  to-day  less  intense,  men  are  driven  mad  in  quite  other  pursuits,  their 
diseases  arising  from  other  pretexts  and  taking  on  a  different  veneer.  And, 
again,  the  public  among  us  being  indifferent  to  such  ideas,  even  when  they  do 
arise,  these  mad  saints  find  none  to  listen  to  them  ;  and  if  they  insist,  like  this 
woman,  they  are  at  last  secluded  in  an  asylum.  Three  or  four  centuries 
ago  she  would  have  attracted  followers,  founded  monasteries,  carried  away 
crowds  ;  she  would  have  become  a  historical  event.     It  is  sad  to  reflect  on  the 


A    MAD  SAINT  21 

fate  of  so  many  men  of  genius,  born  before  their  time,  or  in  lands  incapable 
of  understanding  them,  and  dying  sterilized,  when  they  were  not  killed  as 
rebels  or  heretics.  Even  among  ourselves  to-day,  indeed,  it  is  only  after  death 
that  such  men  are  admired  and  honoured. 

The  germ  of  holiness,  as  well  as  that  of  genius,  must  be  sought  among 
the  insane. 

C.  LOMBROSO. 
(Translated by  Havelock  Ellis.) 


Classic  London 

by 

Joseph  Pennell 


v- 


4r 

1   Ik     '<     <  k  i  V  V 


NEW   YEARS    EVE 


E  heard  the  bells  of  midnight  burying  the  year. 

Then  the  night  poured  its  silent  waters  over  us. 
And  then,  in  the  vague  darkness,  faint  and  tremulous, 
Time  paused  ;  then  the  night   filled  with  sound  ;  morning 

was  here. 
Time  paused  ;  our  hearts  were  silent  ;  only  your  eyes  burned 
Out  of  the  night  as  though  lit  to  consume  my  heart. 
The  insane  anger  of  love  seized  and  became  a  part 
Of  your  incarnate  spirit ;  and  your  spirit  yearned 
In  such  an  agonizing  ecstasy  of  desire 

Unto  my  spirit  waiting  to  be  lost  in  you, 
Spirit  to  spirit  was  fused  in  living  flame  ;  and  neither  knew, 
In  that  transfiguring  ardency  of  perfect  fire, 
Body  from  body,  spirit  from  spirit,  life  from  death. 
Only  we  knew,  as  flaming  silence  wrapt  the  past, 
We  had  escaped  the  shadowy  labyrinth  at  last  ; 
Only  we  knew,  as  brooding  silence,  like  the  breath 
Of  the  overshadowing  wings  of  the  creating  Dove, 

Descended  on  our  hearts,  and  filled  our  hearts  with  peace. 
Love,  born  to  be  immortal,  until  all  time  cease, 
Was  born  of  us  anew,  to  be  immortal  love. 

Arthur  Svmons. 


A   MERE   MAN 


i 

j]HE  Clubs  were  full,  and  busy  with  gossip.  The  new  beauty 
^an  American)  had  been  presented  to  a  royal  prince,  and  the 
old  beauty  of  three  seasons  ago  was  engaged  to  be  married, 
engaged  to  an  eligible  man  too,  a  certain  Leonard  Standish, 
whose  father  came  of  a  good  old  stock,  and  had  left  him  a 
pretty  place  in  Yorkshire,  and  a  decent  amount  of  money. 
A  young  man  of  twenty-eight,  a  favourite  on  the  race-course  and  in  London 
drawing-rooms,  with  a  handsome  face,  and  a  simple,  unaffected  manner,  a 
reputation  not  too  bad,  and  a  record  cleaner  than  most  men's ;  a  man  his 
own  sex  liked,  and  dubbed  a  "  damned  good  fellow,"  and  the  other  sex 
considered  straight  and  honourable,  he  was  up  to  date  in  all  but  his 
immorality,  and  the  little  there  had  been  of  that  was  decidedly  behind  the 
times. 

The  girl  was  a  tall  slim  creature,  with  an  aristocratic  face,  thin, 
delicate,  pink  lips,  large,  brilliant  gray  eyes,  a  thin  nose,  a  well-shaped  chin, 
and  pretty,  well-groomed  hair.  Her  father,  a  Major  in  the  Guards,  was  dead. 
Her  mother  was  a  well-known  woman  about  town.  Her  brothers  were 
equally  divided  between  the  Stock  Exchange  and  the  Army,  and  their  friends 
were  nice  young  men  with  squeaky  voices.     ■ 

She  knew  London  well,  had  wearied  of  balls  after  her  first  season,  had 
taken  an  interest  in  racing  the  second,  and  in  Leonard  Standish  the  third. 
During  the  ball-room  epidemic  she  had  been  engaged  to  young  Charlton,  in 
the  Guards,  and  had  thrown  him  over  at  the  last  minute  because  he  bored  her. 
During  the  racing  epidemic  she  had  been  engaged  to  Bernard  Chitty,  who  had 
suddenly  disappeared  to  Africa,  and  society  talked  with  little  result.  Her 
third  year  was  crowned  with  success.  The  royal  prince  had  wearied  of  her,  it 
is  true,  but  she  was  engaged  elsewhere,  and  her  mother,  her  relations,  and  her 
friends  were  pouring  congratulations  from  every  quarter. 

She  was  to  be  married  in  April,  and  was  busy  discussing  a  proposed  visit 
to  Paris  in  search  of  chiffons  on  a  cold  dreary  February  afternoon,  as  her 


A    MERE  MAN  27 

carriage  drove  down  Park  Lane,  while  her  mother  waxed  fretful  because  a 
hand-glass  reflected  a  somewhat  reddened  nose. 

"  My  dear  Aimee,"  Mrs.  Bentley  Cardross  was  saying,  as  she  dabbed  a 
minute  powder-puff  all  over  her  face,  "  it's  so  very  tiresome.  You  haven't 
noticed,  I'm  sure.  The  tip  of  my  nose  has  been  quite  frost-bitten,  and  is 
reviving  in  a  peculiarly  painful  manner.     Do  sympathize,  dear." 

Her  daughter  did  not  reply. 

"So  annoying  that  man  never  sending  my  new  cloak  home.  I'm  frozen, 
dear,  frozen,  I  assure  you." 

The  girl  glanced  at  her  quickly,  and  looked  away  again. 

"  You  seem  covered  with  fur,"  she  remarked. 

"  Have  you  seen  Leonard  to-day,  dear  ? "  inquired  Mrs.  Bentley  Cardross, 
with  a  nervous  smile. 

"  No." 

"  He  was  going " 

"  I  don't  know  where  he  was  going.     He  is  coming  to  dinner  to-night." 

"  Of  course,  dear,  of  course." 

"  I've  asked  Mrs.  Sharpe." 

"  My  dear  girl,  do  you  think  you  are  quite  wise  ?  She  is  not  quite  all  I 
could  wish  ;  and  Leonard  is  so  dreadfully  particular." 

"  She  is  my  friend." 

"  I  know,  of  course,  I  know  ;  but  her  husband  is  so  very  racy,  and  always 
smells  of  the  stables  ;  and  she  will  smoke  before  dinner  is  half  over,  and  I 
know  Leonard  will  look  at  her  with  that  tiresomely  grave  face  which  always 
makes  me  wish  to  shake  him.     After  you  are  married " 

"  That  odious  phrase  !     Let  us  leave  that  time  to  the  future,  mamma." 

"  Very  well,  dear,  if  you  like.  I  am  sure  I  am  quite  busy  enough  to  find 
plenty  to  say  about  the  present.  But  Mrs.  Sharpe  wants  to  flirt  with  every  man 
she  meets.  She  will  look  up  at  Leonard,  with  those  pathetic  eyes  of  hers,  until 
she  drives  me  mad." 

"  Of  course  she  looks  pathetic.     Her  husband  is  a  perfect  brute  to  her." 

"  Oh,  no  doubt !  " 

"  And  unless  she  nags  on  at  him  for  about  an  hour,  he  won't  even  allow 
her  to  dine  with  us." 

"  How  unjust." 

"  And  if  she  is  just  a  little  late  in  coming  home,  he  goes  and  gets  drunk." 

"  My  dear,  you  shock  me." 

The  daughter  smiled. 


28  THE   SAVOY 

"  Do  I,  mamma  ?  "  she  inquired  ;  and  then  she  leaned  forward,  and  waved 
her  hand  to  a  man  in  a  passing  hansom. 

"  Who  was  it,  dear  ?  "  cried  her  mother.     "  Do  tell  me." 

"  Only  Leonard.  Who  can  he  be  going  to  see  in  Park  Lane  ?  That 
horrid  stiff  Lady  Jane  Graham,  I  suppose.  Perhaps  she  was  a  friend  of  his 
mother's." 

"  My  dear !     She's  only  thirty-seven." 

"  And  looks  more." 

"  Well,  Aimee,  as  a  well-preserved  woman  myself,  I  never  scoff  at  those 
who  are  stupid  enough  to  show  their  years.  They  are  usually  religious  people, 
and  go  often  to  the  holy  communion,  and  that's  so  tiring, — the  kneeling  I 
mean  ;  if  you  once  get  down  it's  so  difficult  to  get  up  again,  at  my  age.  Don't 
you  think  so  ?  " 

"  I  didn't  hear  what  you  were  saying.     Is  it  worth  repeating  again  ?  " 

Her  mother  flushed  crimson,  and  took  up  the  hand-glass  with  a  shaking 
hand. 

"  No,  dear,  no,"  she  said,  timidly.     "  Of  course  not." 
******** 

Lady  Jane  Graham  was  at  home,  and  would  see  Mr.  Leonard  Standish. 

She  was  a  tall  woman,  with  a  graceful  face,  a  graceful  figure,  and  a  manner 
that  was  her  chief  charm.  As  she  rose,  with  a  smile,  to  welcome  him,  her  deep 
voice  had  a  peaceful  sound,  and  her  eyes  a  look  which  reminded  him 
somehow  of  a  church,  and  there  was  a  faint  scent  somewhere,  suggestive  of 
incense. 

"  How  are  you  ?  "  she  began.  "  I  am  very  glad  to  see  you.  Come  and  sit 
near  the  fire  and  tell  me  all  your  news.  Harold  has  gone  down  to  Langham, 
and  I  had  that  pretty  little  May  Egerton  staying  with  me  for  a  few  days. 
They  are  repairing  the  village  church,  and  Harold  bought  a  new  horse, 
which  he  wants  you  to  see.  That  is  all  my  news  in  one  breath.  Aren't  you 
relieved  ? " 

He  took  a  tea-cup  from  her  hand,  and  smiled.  A  few  seconds  were  devoted 
to  his  questions  about  her  husband,  her  friends,  and  to  her  answers.  She 
was  a  woman  whose  whole  household  is  always  of  interest  to  her  acquaint- 
ances, and  Leonard  Standish  had  a  closer  claim  than  that.  He  had  been  a 
staunch  friend  to  her  brother,  a  handsome  young  scapegrace,  who  slept  in  a 
foreign  grave. 

She  read  people  cleverly,  and  described  them  aptly.  She  was  a  woman 
who  clung  to  old-fashioned  ideas,  and  conventional  thought.     She  had  a  kind 


A    MERE  MAN  29 

heart,  and  a  sensitive  nature,  under  a  masked  dignity  which  seemed  like 
pride. 

"  You  arc  to  be  married  in  April,"  she  said. 

"  Yes,  in  April — the  seventeenth." 

"  Have  you  settled  where  you  will  go  afterwards  ?  " 

"  Lord  Arthur  said  he  would  lend  us  his  place  in  Suffolk.  Aimee  knows 
him  very  well.     He  seems  a  nice  kind  of  chap.     I  was  at  Eton  with  him." 

"  And  your  house — have  you  settled  on  it  ?  " 

"  Yes,  it's  in  Cadogan  Square."  There  was  a  pause,  Leonard  Standish 
put  his  hand  up  to  his  dark  hair,  and  smoothed  it. 

Lady  Jane  feigned  not  to  watch  him,  and  touched  some  lilies  of  the  valley 
in  a  vase  near  with  long,  shapely  fingers.  She  knew  well  that  he  had  some- 
thing to  say  to  her,  and  she  knew  also  that  she  would  prefer  him  not  to  say  it. 
There  was  only  one  course  open  to  her,  however,  to  be  patient  and  sympathetic, 
and  to  listen  to  him  when  he  chose  to  speak. 

"  I  met  that  young  Captain  Cardross  the  other  night.  He  is  a  handsome 
boy." 

"  Yes,"  his  future  brother-in-law  admitted.  "  But  I  wish  he  didn't  try  so 
hard  to  be  smart." 

"  Isn't  that  the  fault  of  the  age  ?    And  youth  reflects  the  age." 

"  I  think  I  like  Jack  Cardross  best." 

"  He's  on  the  Stock  Exchange,  isn't  he  ?  " 

"  Yes.  He's  an  awfully  sharp  fellow.  Gets  on  very  well.  Is  rather  too 
full  of  scandal,  though.  That  sort  of  promiscuous  soiling  of  characters  makes 
me  sick." 

"  I  only  met  him  once,"  Lady  Jane  said  gravely  ;  "  and  I  fancy  that  his 
words  are  bigger  than  his  deeds.  He  is  probably  more  harmless  than  he  likes 
to  be  thought.     I  should  distrust  the  captain  more." 

"  Would  you.  How  funny  !  But  then  you  always  have  queer  ideas  about 
people,  and  you  are  always  right." 

Lady  Jane  smiled. 

"  Have  some  more  tea,"  she  said  ;  "  and  tell  me  what  you  know  of  a  Mrs. 
Sharpe." 

"  Oh !  she's  a  friend  of  AimeVs.  A  pretty  little  woman.  I  met  her  at 
Sandown." 

"  I  saw  her  once  at  a  theatre.  Harold  knew  her  husband  slightly  ;  he  is 
a  racing  man  I  fancy." 

There  was  a  pause. 


30  THE   SAVOY 

"  You  didn't  like  Mrs.  Sharpe,"  Standish  blurted  out. 

"No,  not  much." 

"  I  say,  Lady  Jane,"  he  began,  "  I  am  in  an  awful  fix,  and  I  want  to  ask 
you  something.     You  won't  mind,  will  you  ?  " 

"  Do  you  think  I  am  the  right  person  to  ask  ?  " 

"  I'm  sure  of  it.  The  fact  is,  I  couldn't  question  anyone  else.  It  would 
seem  so  disloyal." 

"  My  dear  Leonard,  it  is  so  foolish  to  ask  a  friend  anything.  The  only 
things  worth  knowing  we  all  find  out  for  ourselves." 

"  I  don't  think  I  understand,"  the  man  answered.  "  I'm  awfully  worried 
and  bothered,  and  I  thought  you'd  help  me." 

"  Well,  tell  me  what  it  is." 

"  People  are  saying  beastly  things " 

"  People  ? " 

"  Well,  one  woman." 

"  Oh  !    Go  on." 

"  About  some  one  I  love  very  much — a  great  friend  of  mine — a  woman  I 
respect.  I  say,  Lady  Jane,  you  must  guess,  you  know.  It  was  about 
Aimee." 

"  Was  the  authority  good  ?  " 

"  Good  !    How  do  you  mean  ?  " 

"  Was  the  woman  who  said  the  things  reliable  ?  " 

"  No,  not  very,  I  should  think.     It  didn't  strike  me  before." 

"  Had  she  any  motive  for  wishing  to  destroy  your  belief  in  Miss  Cardross  ?  " 

"  Motive  ?  Women  always  think  there  must  be  a  motive  at  the  root  of 
everything." 

Lady  Jane  laughed.  "  Because  there  usually  is.  But  you  haven't  answered 
my  question." 

"  Oh,  well,  I  don't  know.  She  used  rather  to  like  me,  perhaps.  A  man 
feels  such  a  cad  when  he  says  a  thing  like  that." 

"  Not  to  me,"  said  his  friend,  not  from  vanity,  but  to  reassure  him.  "  Well, 
then,  if  she  spoke  from  jealousy,  I  think  we  may  dismiss  the  matter." 

"  You  don't  think  it's  true." 

"  If  she  was  the  only  maligner " 

"Oh,  there  it  is!  I've  heard  other  people  long  ago  hint — about — about 
all  sorts  of  things." 

"  That  is  rather  vague  if  you  want  me  to  dispute  them." 

"  I  do.     That's  just  it.     I  want  you  to  tell  me  that  Aimee  is  all  right.    A 


A    MERE  MAN  31 

nice,  good  girl,  as  nice  as  she  is  beautiful.  I'm  really  awfully  fond  of  her. 
I  can't  tell  you  how  fond.  I  never  felt  so  strongly  about  anything  before. 
She  is  so  lovely,  and  so  sweet,  and  I  like  to  hear  her  talk  :  she's  awfully  clever 
too.     I  don't  know  what  I  should  do  if  I  believed  all  those  horrid  things." 

Lady  Jane  blushed.  She  had  a  trick  of  flushing  pink  when  anything 
distressed  her.  Her  glance  fell  on  the  picture  of  a  grave  on  a  distant  table, 
and  she  remembered  her  brother  as  he  had  looked  years  before  the  end.  If 
he  had  been  alive,  he  could  have  spoken  where  her  mouth  was  sealed.  She 
could  not  take  the  responsibility  of  settling  Leonard's  whole  future  for  him 
in  that  way.  And  she  could  not  ruin  a  young  girl's  chances  of  happiness  by 
a  word  or  sign. 

"  What  do  you  want  me  to  say  ?  "  she  asked. 

"  Tell  me  if  you  know  anything." 

"  I  know" — she  slightly  and  conscientiously  emphasized  the  word  " know" — 
"  I  know  nothing  against  Miss  Cardross.  Rumour  has  dealt  with  her  as  it 
deals  with  every  woman  celebrated  for  her  beauty — that  is,  unjustly,  always. 
It  overpraises  her  outward  appearance,  and  depreciates  her  soul.  It  claims 
the  right  to  attack  her  character,  as  it  cannot  attack  her  face.  Had  I  a  child," 
— her  voice  altered — "had  I  been  lucky  enough  to  have  a  child,  and  she  a 
girl,  I  should  have  wished  her  any  curse  but  beauty,  and  any  misery  but 
brains.  If  a  beautiful  woman  is  attacked  and  smiles,  a  clever  one  is  ten  times 
more  abused,  and  she  doesn't  smile — she  is  usually  wretchedly  alive  to  all  that 
is  said,  and  miserably  sensitive  about  it.  Why,  Leonard,  you  cannot  possess  a 
pearl  without  the  world  deigning  to  envy  you.  It  is  the  fate  of  all  lucky 
men." 

"  Yes,  of  course,  I  am  awfully  lucky." 

"  Don't  let  spiteful  women  frighten  you,  or  reckless  men  startle  you. 
They  mean  only  half  of  what  they  hint,  and  a  quarter  of  what  they  say.  A 
man's  gossip  is  usually  the  most  harmless  thing  in  the  world.  He  tells 
a  scandalous  story  because  it  is  naughtily  amusing,  not  to  ruin  a  woman's 
reputation,  and  he  speaks  lightly  of  a  good  name,  because  he  has  lost  his  own 
so  long  ago  that  he  has  forgotten  the  value  of  it." 

Leonard  Standish  turned  a  puzzled  face  towards  his  hostess. 

"  I  suppose  I've  bored  you  terribly,"  he  said. 

"  Certainly  not." 

"  You — you  don't  think  me  a  cad  for  coming  to  ask  you  such  questions." 

"  I  have  never  known  you  do  anything  that  could  possibly  earn  you  that 
obnoxious  title." 


32  THE   SAVOY 

"  But,  Lady  Jane,  will  you  let  me  tell  you  exactly  what  I  did  hear,  so  that 
you  won't  think  I  was  worried  over  a  mere  nothing,  a  mere  breath  of  scandal." 

"  My  dear  Leonard,  I  don't  want  to  know.  I  can  trust  you  not  to  have 
mentioned  those  rumours  without  reason,  and  such  mud  has  a  nasty  trick  of 
sticking  to  one's  mind,  and  I  want  never  to  be  reminded  of  anything  but  good 
of  your  wife.     Take  care  that  none  of  the  mud  clings  on  to  you." 

"  You  are  quite  right.     Quite  right.     I  can't  thank  you  enough." 

"  Where  are  you  dining  to-night — not  with  Lady  Ralston,  I  fear." 

"  No,  are  you  going  there  ?  I  am  dining  with  Mrs.  Cardross.  I  haven't 
seen  Aimee  to-day — at  least  not  to  speak  to.  I  passed  her,  as  I  was  driving 
here,  looking  awfully  pretty.     Her  mother  was  there  too." 

"  Her  mother."     Lady  Jane  flushed  pink.     "  I  don't  know  Mrs.  Cardross." 

"  She's — she's  awfully  good-natured." 

"  Yes,  I  heard  she  was." 

"  Rather  careless,  you  know,  but  devoted  to  her  children.  The  boys  really 
do  know  an  awful  set  of  men.  I  met  Dottie  Leighton,  and  Freddie  Williams 
with  them  at  the  Empire  the  other  night.     You  don't  know  them,  of  course." 

"  Only  by  sight.  You  mean  some  pretty  boys  who  are  always  in  the  Park 
on  Sunday.  They  look  harmless  enough,  as  if  all  their  time  were  spent  in 
choosing  a  necktie  to  match  their  eyes." 

Leonard  Standish  rose  to  go.  He  seized  Lady  Jane's  long  fingers 
impulsively.  You've  been  awfully  good  to  me,"  he  said,  "  I  can't  thank  you 
half  enough.     I'm  not  a  bit  worried  now." 

She  smiled  a  little  sadly. 

"  Come  and  see  me  again  soon,  Leonard,"  she  said,  "  and  bring  Miss 
Cardross  with  you." 

"  Of  course  I  will,  she  will  love  to  come,  I  know.     Good-bye." 

Lady  Jane  stood  and  listened  to  his  hansom  wheels  as  he  drove  away.  A 
dark,  foggy  evening  was  closing  in,  and  she  went  to  the  window  and  looked  out. 
His  cab  was  a  mere  speck  in  the  mist,  the  street  lights  twinkled  uneasily 
through  the  smoke,  and  the  roar  of  London  was  muffled  to  her  ears. 

"  I  wonder,"  she  thought,  "  if  I  have  done  wrong  that  good  may 
come."  And  the  smoke,  and  the  fog,  and  the  darkness  closed  round  the 
lucky  man. 

II 

One  warm  Sunday  morning  in  May,  when  the  park  was  bright  with  lilac  and 
laburnum  and  the  pink  blossom  of  the  chestnut  trees,  a  small  group  of  people 


A    MERE  MAN  33 

were  congregated  near  the  Achilles  statue.  A  slight  breeze  toyed  with  the  lace 
veil  of  one  of  the  women,  and  the  large  black  feathers  in  the  other's  hat.  The 
men  were  mostly  young,  and  unmistakably  smart.  One  of  them  was  biting 
the  end  of  a  prayer  book,  absently,  forgetting  that  he  carried  it  for  Mrs. 
Lionel  Boyne,  whose  large  rebellious  veil  claimed  all  her  attention  for  the 
moment. 

"  Yes,  the  Standish  menage  has  returned,"  Mrs.  Sharpe  was  saying,  "  I  saw 
her  yesterday,  she  says  they  had  a  splendid  time  in  Paris.  I  asked  no  questions 
about  Lord  Arthur's  place,  it  must  have  been  deadly  dull.  Fancy  my  being 
buried  in  the  country  with  Bob.  I  should  commit  suicide  after  one  day.  And 
I'm  sure  Bob's  the  most  good-natured  creature  in  the  world." 

"  Dear  lady,"  cried  Dottie  Leighton,  quickly,"  don't  mention  suicide,  it's  so 
nasty." 

"  Besides  we  couldn't  spare  you,"  said  a  heavy  Colonel,  with  a  smile.  He 
liked  the  pathetic  eyes  to  be  raised  slowly  and  pleadingly  towards  his  own,  and 
Mrs.  Sharpe's  gentle  affected  manner  pleased  him. 

Mrs.  Boyne  overheard  and  turned  round.  "  I  never  can  remember  how  I 
spent  the  honeymoon  with  Lionel,  I  suppose  I  bored  him  to  death.  I  know  he 
bored  me.  Isn't  that  Dolly  Marker  over  there,  the  new  burlesque  dancer, 
that  people  are  so  mad  about,  and  it's  Bernard  Chitty  with  her?  What  a 
joke ! " 

The  ladies  both  laughed,  Dottie  laughed,  the  powdered  and  red-lipped 
Freddie  Williams  became  convulsed  with  merriment.  Colonel  Ashby  alone 
failed  to  see  the  joke,  and  wondered  what  the  devil  they  all  meant. 

"  Aimee  doesn't  know  he  is  in  England,"  said  Mrs.  Sharpe. 

"  Does  anyone  know  the  truth  of  that  story  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Boyne. 

"  I  suppose  Bernard  found  out  something,"  suggested  Mrs.  Sharpe. 

"  What  do  you  mean  ?  "  a  fourth  man  inquired,  abruptly. 

"  Oh,  I  really  don't  know,  Mr.  Franklin,"  said  the  lady  in  a  hurry.  "  I  am 
devoted  to  Aimee  myself,  and  think  her  husband  is  a  dear — so  fond  of  her,  too 
— it  is  quite  charming  to  see  them  together." 

"  Talk  of  an  angel,"  said  Franklin,  going  forward,  "  and  here  she  is.  We 
were  just  discussing  your  domestic  bliss,  Mrs.  Standish." 

The  girl  looked  her  best,  she  had  a  becoming  pink  colour,  and  wore 
a  Paris  costume.  Leonard  Standish  had  a  face  which  smiled  on  all  the  world, 
and  if  ever  a  man  expressed  contentment,  he  did,  with  his  clear  fresh  voice  and 
his  bright  smile. 

"  It  was  so  awfully  nice  in  Paris,"  he  explained  to  Mrs.  Sharpe  ;  "  we  went 


34  THE   SAVOY 

everywhere,  and  saw  everything.  We  heard  Guilbert  sing,  and  did  all  the 
theatres,  and  gave  some  jolly  little  dinners  at  Voisin's,  and  chez  Paillard.  You 
ought  to  get  Bob  to  take  you  over  for  a  few  days.  Paris  is  lovely  just 
now." 

"  Oh,  Bob  never  will  take  me  anywhere,  the  old  idiot  is  far  too  mad 
on  racing." 

Mrs.  Boyne  rustled  up  to  Aimee.  "  Dearest,"  she  said,  in  a  shrill  voice, 
"  have  you  seen  Dolly  Marker  and  the  latest  victim  ?  It  is  such  a  joke,  as  he 
is  a  newly  married  man." 

"  Who  is  ?  and  where  are  they  ?  " 

"  Over  there  under  those  hawthorn  trees."  Mrs.  Standish  put  up  a 
lorgnette.  It  dropped  suddenly,  and  the  glass  and  tortoise-shell  broke  in 
twenty  pieces  on  the  gravel. 

"  Dear  lady  !  How  dreadful !  "  cried  Freddie  Williams.  "  I  must  get  you 
a  new  one." 

"  I'll  send  you  one  from  Paris,"  said  Dottie. 

"  What  made  you  drop  it  ?  "  asked  her  husband. 

Her  cold  face  chilled  him,  as  she  said  with  an  almost  imperceptible  sneer, 
"  Carelessness,  I  suppose,  but  I  really  don't  know." 

Mrs.  Sharpe  looked  pensive,  Mrs.  Boyne  smiled. 

Later,  Aimee  said  suddenly,  "  When,  and  where  did  Bernard  marry  ?  " 

"  Oh,  in  Australia,"  Franklin  replied.  "  He  picked  up  a  piece  of  gold, 
rubbed  the  dust  off,  and  has  brought  it  home  to  be  polished.  She's  a  large 
woman  with  auburn  hair.     She's  his  only  mistake." 

"  Where  is  your  husband,  Mrs.  Boyne  ?  "  asked  the  girl. 

"  He's  lost  just  at  present.  He's  awfully  clever  at  losing  himself,  you 
know." 

Mrs.  Sharpe  turned  round  with  her  pensive  smile,  and  raised  eyebrows. 

"  M'  dear,"  she  said,  clipping  her  words,  and  looking  reproachful,  "  don't 
speak  of  the  poor  man  like  that.     Perhaps  he  wants  to  be  found." 

"If  you  would  like  to  go  and  hunt  for  Bob,"  proposed  her  friend,  "  I 
daresay  he's  somewhere  in  the  park." 

"  Dear  Bob,"  sighed  Mrs.  Sharp,  "  I  wonder  if  he  is." 

"  I  wish  I  were  a  woman,  and  newly  married,"  cried  Mr.  Williams.  "  It 
must  be  so  nice  wearing  all  one's  new  frocks." 

"  Oh,  you  naughty  thing,"  Mrs.  Sharpe  said,  and  then  laughed. 

"  Did  Standish  take  you  to  the  Moulin  Rouge? "  inquired  Freddie. 

Her  husband  turned  round. 


A    MERE  MAN  35 

"  Come  home  now,  Aimee,"  he  said.     "  We  shall  be  late  for  lunch." 

"All  right,  Leonard  ;"  she  drew  him  a  little  aside.  "You  don't  mind,  do 
you — I've  asked  Dottie  and  Freddie  to  lunch  ?  " 

"  Not  those  brutes,  have  you  ? " 

"  Yes,  why  not  ?  " 

"  Oh,  very  well,  only  it's  the  last  time." 

"The  first,  you  mean.     I  shall  invite  whom  I  please." 

"  Not  to  my  house,  while  I'm  in  it." 

"  Then  you  can  go  out,  dear.  I  can't  waste  any  more  time  now.  Come 
on,  Dottie,  we're  off  now." 

The  rest  of  the  party  watched  them  crossing  the  row. 

"  She's  a  lovely  woman  !  "  Colonel  Ashby  exclaimed. 

"  She's  thoroughly  smart,"  agreed  the  two  women. 

"  Her  husband,"  Franklin  said  slowly,  "  is  the  best  chap  I  know.  I  only 
hope  she'll  treat  him  decently.  He  will  cut  up  rough  if  she  plays  any  of  her 
old  games,  poor  fellow." 

"  You  didn't  let  me  talk  like  that  about  Aimee,  and  now  you've  done  it 
yourself." 

"  My  dear  Mrs.  Bob,  you  hinted  at  something  before  those  two  boys, 
which  means  that  all  London  will  know  who  said  it  to-morrow,  that  is  all. 
The  Standish  husband  and  wife  have  quite  enough  before  them,  without  our 
adding  to  their  troubles.  No  good  ever  came  out  of  the  Cardross  family  yet, 
and  I  don't  believe  it  ever  will.  Come  and  dine  at  the  Savoy  with  me  to- 
night and  I'll  tell  you  some  naughty  stories.     We  won't  ask  Bob." 


One  warm  June  day,  a  month  later,  Leonard  Standish  went  into  his  wife's 
room  directly  after  breakfast.  The  window  was  wide  open,  and  above  the 
geraniums  and  mignonette  in  the  flower-box  he  saw  a  perfect  blue  sky,  and 
brilliant  sunshine. 

"  What  a  jolly  day  !  "  he  exclaimed,  "  I  say,  Aimee,  are  you  ill  ?  " 

His  glance  fell  on  some  brandy  and  seltzer  in  a  tumbler  on  the  dressing- 
table. 

"  Yes,"  she  admitted  fretfully.     "  Dreadfully  seedy,  dear.     Don't  worry." 

"  Then  why  on  earth  do  you  go  out  ? " 

"  How  absurd  you  are.  I've  promised  to  go  shopping  with  Ada  Sharpe 
and  there  is  Hurlingham  this  afternoon." 

"  Oh,  yes,  I  forgot.     Shall  I  come  back  and  take  you  there  ? " 

C 


36  THE  SAVOY 

His  wife  shook  the  powder-puff  all  over  his  coat-sleeve,  and  then  drew  a 
dark  line  under  each  eye. 

"  No  need,  dear,"  she  remarked,  and  then  seeing  his  face  reflected  behind 
her  own  in  the  mirror,  she  added  quickly,  "  I  am  going  with  the  Chittys." 

"  You  are  always  with  those  people,"  Leonard  said. 

"  I  thought  you  liked  her,"  his  wife  retorted. 

"  Well,  I  do  like  her — why  not  ?  I  like  that  sort  of  fresh  woman,  with 
her  big  honest  face,  and  auburn  hair.  There  is  something  straight  about  her 
which  is  very  rare." 

"  She's  a  damned  good  fellow,  in  fact,"  laughed  Aimee. 

"  What  beastly  language  you  use.  I  say,  don't  drink  all  that  B.  and  S. 
It's  an  awfully  stiff  one." 

Her  eyes  danced  with  fun  over  the  rim  of  the  glass. 

"  You  silly  boy,"  she  said,  "  it  won't  hurt  me.  Do  you  think  I've  got  a 
head  like  mamma  ?  " 

"  Your  mother  can  stand  a  good  deal,"  said  Leonard,  stiffly. 

"  I  sent  Mary  down  for  ten  minutes,  and  she's  been  an  hour.  Ring  for 
her,  will  you  ?  " 

"  No,  not  for  a  second.  I  want  to  talk  to  you.  I  say,  Aimee,  really  I 
wish  you  wouldn't  go  about  with  the  Chittys  so  much.  He's  one  of  a  horrid 
set  of  men,  and  although  she's  an  awfully  nice  woman,  she  isn't  quite  a  lady. 
It  does  you  such  harm  with  decent  people." 

"  You  are  always  grumbling  at  my  friends.  Pass  me  that  rouge,  dear, 
will  you  ?  " 

"  Oh,  don't,  you've  got  an  awfully  pretty  colour  of  your  own.  Let  the 
nasty  stuff  alone."  Leonard  Standish  touched  his  wife's  hair  timidly,  and 
added  very  gently,  "  I  like  you  as  you  are,  Aimee,  darling,  not  messed  up  with 
all  that  stuff." 

She  shook  his  hand  off.  "  Don't  be  silly,"  she  remarked,  "  you  know  you 
don't  mind  it  really." 

He  look  puzzled.  "  I  don't  in  other  women,"  he  admitted,  "  but  somehow 
I  hate  it  in  my  wife." 

"  I  must  get  on  with  my  dressing,  and  you  hinder  me.  If  you  haven't 
anything  else  to  say,  you'd  better  go." 

Her  husband  went  half  across  the  room,  and  then  returned. 

"  Can  you  come  and  call  on  Lady  Jane,  to-morrow  ?  "  he  asked,  "  we've 
never  been  near  her  since  our  marriage,  and  she  came  here  three  weeks  ago, 
when  we  were  out." 


A   MERE  MAN  37 

"  I  can't  bother,  she  bores  me  to  death.  You  can  go,  and  say  I'm  ill.  I 
say,  Leonard,  come  back,  and  don't  look  so  cross.  I'll  look  in  on  you  in  the 
smoking-room  before  I  go  out.  I  have  something  to  tell  you — no,  not  now — 
later  on.     Ring  the  bell,  there's  a  dear,  and  leave  me  alone." 

He  heard  her  rustling  down  the  staircase  half  an  hour  later,  he  heard  her 
greeting  to  Mrs.  Sharpe  in  the  hall,  and  her  quick  "  wait  for  me  in  the  morning- 
room  one  minute,  dear,"  and  then  she  turned  the  handle  of  his  own  den  and 
entered. 

She  looked  pretty  and  distinguished,  and  a  little  flushed.  With  a  shyness 
new  to  them  both  she  came  and  kissed  him,  and  holding  on  to  the  lappels  of 
his  coat,  she  said,  faintly,  with  nervous  lips : 

"Dr.  Bell  came  in  yesterday,  Leonard,  and  he  said  that  I — that  I  —  I 
mean  I  thought  you  would  like  to  know — that  you  would  be  glad,  dear." 

Leonard  Standish  sprang  to  his  feet.  "  Why,  darling,"  he  cried,  "  do  you 
mean ? " 

She  broke  from  him,  crimson,  and  breathless. 

"  Oh  don't,  Leonard,  don't,  you  know  quite  well  what  I  mean.  Now  I 
shall  be  late  if  I  don't  go — and  you've  knocked  my  hat  crooked."  She  laughed 
nervously,  and  rushed  from  the  room. 

The  man  sat  down  before  his  writing-table,  and  his  lips  twitched.  Her 
few  shy  words  had  changed  the  whole  world,  and  the  little  annoyances  of  the 
last  month  vanished.  He  thought  that  he  would  go  and  see  Lady  Jane,  and 
as  his  wife  did  not  intend  returning  till  dinner  time,  he  telegraphed  to 
Lady  Jane  to  know  if  he  might  lunch  with  her,  and  received  an  answer  in 
the  affirmative. 

The  day  wore  on,  and  a  hot  sun  streamed  into  her  cosy  drawing-room 
and  shone  on  her  serene  features,  and  on  his  happy  careless  face.  It  shone  on 
Mrs.  Standish  during  her  drive  down  to  Hurlingham,  and  watched  her 
relentlessly  when  once  there.  The  timid  Australian  wife  tried  to  hide  her 
large  figure  behind  the  slim  girl.  Bernard  Chitty  bent  his  ironical  face  close 
to  Mrs.  Standish,  and  whispered  comments  on  their  mutual  friends,  which 
made  her  laugh.  Freddie,  and  Dottie,  and  Mr.  Boyne  gathered  round  her, 
and  took  her  to  have  some  champagne,  and  made  her  feel  her  costume  was  a 
success.  Her  laughter  grew  noisy,  her  speech  more  careless.  They  suggested 
a  dinner  at  Hurlingham,  and  a  music  hall  to  follow,  which  necessitated  no 
change  of  dress,  and  then  supper  in  a  private  room  at  the  Berkeley  as  a  finish 
to  the  day.  Mrs.  Standish  assented  to  it  all,  and  rather  late  in  the  afternoon 
remembered  her  husband  and  sent  him  a  wire. 


38  THE   SAVOY 

He  was  in  the  dining-room  when  it  came,  fuming  inwardly,  and  eating  an 
over-cooked  dinner.  He  read  that  she  was  staying  at  Hurlingham  to  dine, 
and  was  somewhat  appeased.  But  it  somehow  seemed  a  bad  ending  to  the 
day,  which  had  been  a  happy  one  for  him. 

He  drove  down  to  one  of  the  theatres  after  dinner,  and  met  Franklin  in 
the  lobby. 

"  What  have  you  been  doing  ?  "  he  asked  carelessly,  as  they  both  turned 
towards  the  stalls. 

"  Oh  !  I  went  to  Hurlingham.  Rather  good  match  on.  I  saw  your  wife 
there." 

"  Yes,  she  has  stayed  to  dine." 

"  Oh  !  "     Franklin  looked  at  him  curiously. 

They  separated  with  a  careless  "  see  you  later,"  and  Leonard  sat  through 
the  play. 

In  coming  out  into  the  Strand  he  saw  a  woman  in  rags,  emerging  from 
the  door  of  a  public  house,  and  he  stopped  in  the  act  of  getting  into  his 
hansom  to  throw  her  half-a-crown.  The  baby  she  clutched  to  her  breast 
had  attracted  his  notice,  but  he  felt  half  ashamed  of  the  deed. 

When  he  returned,  he  learnt  to  his  surprise  that  his  wife  had  not  yet 
come  home.     He  changed  his  coat  for  a  smoking-jacket  and  lit  a  cigar. 

Twelve  o'clock  struck,  and  he  hummed  an  air  from  the  piece  he  had  seen, 
and  opened  some  letters  on  the  writing-table.  His  wife's  tobacco  bill  was 
nearly  as  large  as  his  own  ;  he  flung  it  down  with  an  oath,  and  settled  himself 
in  an  armchair. 

One  o'clock  struck,  and  he  felt  uneasy,  and  wandered  in  an  aimless 
manner  all  over  the  house.  Then  he  returned,  and  flinging  himself  into  the 
chair  again,  fell  asleep. 

He  woke  with  a  start ;  some  one  fell  over  something  in  the  hall  and 
roused  him.  He  went  quickly  from  the  room.  The  clock  faced  him,  it  was 
three  o'clock. 

"  Why,  Aimee  !  "  he  said,  "  how  late  you  are." 

She  didn't  answer.  She  stood  leaning  against  the  hall  table,  with  her 
eyes  on  the  ground. 

"  Aimee,"  he  repeated,  "  what's  the  matter  ? " 

She  raised  her  face. 

"  Noth — in,"  she  replied. 

He  recoiled  and  turned  sick  with  horror. 

"  Charming  evening — so  tired — go  sh — sleep — all  right." 


A    MERE  MAX  39 

His  face  had  turned  to  the  colour  of  chalk.  He  went  up  to  her  and  took 
her  arm. 

"  Come  along  to  bed,"  he  said,  almost  roughly. 

She  shook  his  hand  off  and  laughed. 

The  man  felt  afraid  of  his  own  disgust. 

She  seemed  to  pull  herself  together  suddenly. 

"  Come  'long,  Leonard,  bed-time,"  she  said,  and  made  a  lurch  towards  the 
stairs. 

He  offered  her  his  arm,  she  clutched  it,  and  together  they  ascended, 
slowly.  He  helped  her  to  undress,  and  put  her  to  bed.  He  woke  later  from 
a  troubled  sleep,  with  the  sun  streaming  into  the  room,  to  find  her  crying 
weakly.  He  took  her  into  his  arms,  and  she  laid  her  cheek  against  his.  The 
misery  of  that  bright  morning  remained  with  him  to  the  end  of  his  days. 
Neither  put  the  horror  into  words,  they  only  clung  to  each  other  like  two 
shipwrecked  people,  and  through  such  misery  and  degradation  their  marriage 
tie  seemed  sanctified. 

After  that,  in  a  furtive  manner,  he  tried  to  stop  her  taking  spirits,  and  she, 
in  a  furtive  manner  also,  resented  the  fact,  and  defied  him. 

He  never  went  near  Lady  Jane  again  ;  the  misery  he  bore  was  all  his 
own,  and  had  to  be  suffered  alone. 

Almost  imperceptibly  his  wife  changed  ;  she  lost  her  sense  of  what  was 
refined  and  pure,  and  her  coarse  jokes  went  the  round  of  the  clubs.  She 
started  card-parties,  aud  resumed  her  interest  in  racing.  She  took  no  care  of 
her  health,  and  was  recklessly  defiant  of  his  wishes.  This  state  of  things 
lasted  till  the  end  of  July,  when  they  had  settled  to  go  north. 

Mrs.  Bentley  Cardross,  Mrs.  Sharpeand  her  husband,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Boyne, 
Colonel  Ashby,  Franklin,  and  the  Chittys,  were  to  be  of  the  party.  The  house 
in  Yorkshire  was  put  in  readiness  for  the  twelfth,  and  Captain  Cardross 
asked  leave  to  bring  two  men  friends  to  join  them  for  the  shooting.  Leonard 
Standish  looked  forward  to  the  moors  and  the  out-of-doors  existence  with 
relief.  His  wife  admitted  that  she  felt  dreadfully  tired  and  ill,  and  would  be 
glad  of  the  rest.  He  felt  more  hopeful  once  away  from  London,  and  the 
familiar  house  and  park  seemed  to  welcome  him  home. 

The  Australian  woman  went  out  shooting,  and  became  a  general 
favourite.  Her  freckled  face,  brown  eyes,  and  short  auburn  curls,  were  con- 
sidered almost  attractive.  She  had  a  brusque  manner,  a  large  heart,  and 
the  dignity  of  a  savage  queen.  Her  husband  neglected  her  shamefully, 
but  she  did  not  appear  to  notice  it,  and  most  of  the  women  were  a   little 


40  THE  SAVOY 

afraid  of  her  purity  of  thought.  They  could  not  speak  so  openly  in  her 
presence. 

Colonel  Ashby  was  making  a  pitiable  figure  of  himself  while  dancing 
attendance  on  Mrs.  Sharpe.  Mrs.  Boyne  flirted  with  Captain  Cardross,  and,  as 
Aimee  said,  "  She  had  found  a  nice  old  man  for  dear  Mamma."  Mrs.  Bentley 
Cardross  was,  as  usual,  frivolous  and  undignified,  and  always  smelt  of  sherry. 
She  was  terrified  of  her  daughter,  who  bullied  her  ;  she  managed  to  be  a  great 
nuisance  to  her  son-in-law. 

Meanwhile  Leonard's  affection  for  his  wife  had  in  no  wise  abated.  Her 
weakness  needed  all  the  more  pitying  protection,  and  all  that  was  best  in  the 
man  seemed  to  come  out  during  those  few  months.  Where  he  had  been  care- 
less and  selfish,  as  men  are  trained  to  be  from  mere  babyhood,  he  grew  con- 
siderate and  kind.  He  shielded  her,  as  if  she  had  been  a  rebellious  child,  from 
the  consequences  of  her  own  misdeeds.  Franklin  swore  under  his  breath,  and 
marvelled  ;  the  other  men  thought  him  a  fool. 

Then  things  went  from  bad  to  worse  suddenly,  and  he  determined  to 
speak  to  her,  as  he  had  never  spoken  to  any  woman  in  his  life. 

She  was  lying  on  a  sofa  in  her  boudoir,  resting,  and  smoking  one  of  his 
cigars.  He  went  in,  feeling  all  that  he  had  to  face,  and  his  voice  would  not 
sound  clear  and  natural. 

"  Oh,  it's  you,  is  it,  Leonard  ? "  she  said.  "  Do  shut  that  door.  Damn 
the  draught,  it's  blown  this  ash  all  over  my  teagown.     What  do  you  want  ?  " 

"  I  want  to  speak  to  you,  darling.  It's  awfully  hard,  and  I  feel  a  brute — you 
can't  tell  what  a  brute  I  feel — but  I  know  I  shall  be  to  blame  if  I  don't  get  it 
over.     I  say,  Aimee,  I  wish  you  would  be  more  careful  than  you  are." 

She  flushed  crimson,  and  she  trembled  so  much  that  she  dropped 
the  cigar  ;  he  knelt  to  pick  it  up,  and  remained  on  the  ground  beside  her 
couch. 

"  You  won't  mind,  darling,  will  you  ?  "  he  pleaded.  "  I  know  it  isn't  your 
fault.  There  are  some  things  your  mother  didn't  teach  you — perhaps  she 
couldn't.  I'm  not  a  bit  angry  ;  I'm  only  sorry,  and  I  want  to  help  you.  Won't 
you  let  me,  dear  ?  " 

Her  face  went  white  under  the  rouge,  and  her  eyelids  dropped. 

"  Make  it  easy  for  me,  darling,  because  you  know  what  I  mean.  Let  us 
aid  each  other.  I  don't  blame  you  one  bit — I  only  want  you  to  trust  me  to 
help  you — let  us  fight  this  thing  together,  and  conquer  it.  Do  let's  try,  darling 
for  both  our  sakes." 

She  raised  herself  on  one  elbow. 


A    MERE  MAN  41 

"  I  don't  know  what  yon  mean,"  she  said,  defiantly. 

He  gave  a  cry  which  might  have  touched  her,  for  it  wrung  his  own  heart, 
and  he  answered  hurriedly, 

"  I  don't  want  you  to  take  so  much  champagne.  Oh,  why  did  you  force 
me  to  say  it — why  did  you  ?  " 

She  burst  into  tears,  and  fell  back,  and  wound  her  arm  round  his  neck,  and 
every  word  of  her  defence  made  him  wince  as  if  with  shame. 

"  I  know,"  she  cried,  "don't  speak  of  it,  pet.  It  is  wrong  and  stupid  of 
me,  of  course.  I  get  so  tired — and  overstrung — and  so  faint.  I  won't  do  it 
again,  I  promise  you.  I  will  let  you  help  me — I  will  be  very  good.  Only  you 
know,  Leonard,  it  isn't  my  fault — I  am  really  ill  and — I  need  something." 

He  gathered  her  in  his  arms,  and,  in  an  agony  which  she  never  understood, 
he  said,  tenderly, 

"  Don't  let  us  talk  of  it  again.  I  know  you  don't  mean  it — I  believe  in 
you,  dear.  And  we — we  will  fight  it  together.  Oh,  my  darling,  for  the  sake  of 
the  little  child  God  is  going  to  give  us,  try — let  us  both  try — to  be  brave,  and 
conquer  it." 

She  held  his  head  against  her  breast,  as  if  it  gave  her  strength,  and  she 
cried  in  short  gasps,  terrible  to  hear. 

The  afternoon  sun  waned,  and  shed  a  dim  light  over  them  both,  as  they 
clasped  each  other  close,  and  whispered  in  soft  abrupt  murmurs,  with  hearts 
full  of  tender  anguish,  of  the  child  which  was  to  come. 


Ill 

Leonard  Standish  sat  alone  in  his  room.  The  snow  lay  thick  on  the 
ground,  and  the  trees  were  white  with  frost.  There  was  an  awning  over  the 
steps  of  a  house  at  the  other  side  of  the  square,  where  the  occupants  were 
preparing  to  give  a  dance,  and  a  barrel-organ  started  a  well-known  music-hall 
air  somewhere  at  the  end  of  the  street.  Upstairs  a  child  cried  faintly,  and  was 
hushed  again.  In  his  own  room  the  fire  burned  brightly,  and  the  scent  of 
cigar-smoke  was  heavy  in  the  warm  curtains.  He  sat  brooding  alone,  and  not 
even  the  thought  of  his  little  son  had  power  to  console  him. 

Aimee  was  out,  she  had  gone  out  against  his  wishes,  she  disregarded 
them  in  everything  now,  and  the  house  felt  lonely. 

It  was  nearly  a  year  since  his  wedding  day,  nearly  a  year  since  he  had 
gone  to  ask  Lady  Jane  those  questions.  He  had  shirked  seeing  her  of  late  ; 
her  gray  eyes  had  a  trick  of  reading  the  truth,  and  he  had  now  something  to  hide. 


42  THE   SAVOY 

His  boyish  face  was  changing  ;  his  very  manner  had  become  troubled  and 
restless  ;  he  had  lost  control  somehow  in  his  own  house,  and  the  fact  continually 
fretted  him  and  worried  him. 

He  thought  perhaps  it  would  be  best  if  he  went  away  for  a  little  time  ; 
and  then  the  child  above  began  to  cry  again.  He  rose  impatiently  and  flung 
away  his  cigar  ;  then  he  went  upstairs  and  knocked  at  the  nursery  door. 

"  I  may  come  in,  nurse,  mayn't  I  ?"  he  said. 

"  Why,  of  course,  sir." 

He  stepped  into  the  room,  and  the  woman  stopped  in  her  walk,  and  held 
up  his  child. 

"  There  's  Papa,  duckie,"  she  cried.     "  Look  at  Papa." 

He  would  have  felt  a  fool  if  his  wife  or  anyone  else  had  been  there ;  as  it 
was,  the  tiny  red  face,  and  the  minute  fingers  clutching  his  own,  made  his 
throat  feel  dry,  and  his  voice  shake. 

"  I  say,  you're  an  awfully  rum  little  thing,"  he  remarked. 

The  baby,  dimpled  and  blue-eyed,  began  to  laugh ;  the  nurse  made  it 
dance  till  its  father's  head  felt  giddy,  and  ashamed,  but  comforted  in  a  strange 
inexplicable  way,  he  crept  out  of  the  nursery  and  drove  away  to  his  club. 

When  he  returned  from  the  club  half  an  hour  before  dinner,  he  found  his 
wife  in  her  room,  with  the  child  on  the  bed. 

"  Well,  Aimee,"  he  cried  briskly,  "  did  you  have  a  nice  afternoon  ?  " 

"  Yes — all  right.  I  say,  Leonard."  She  turned  a  radiant  face  from  the 
glass.     "  Isn't  he  a  darling?  " 

The  child  somehow  always  drew  them  nearer.  She  went  to  the  pillow 
and  bent  over  it,  with  a  face  that  was  softened  and  beautiful.  Her  husband 
drew  near,  too. 

"  He  is  a  nice  little  chap,"  he  admitted. 

"  I  adore  him,"  she  cried,  burying  her  lips  in  the  baby's  soft  cheek. 
"  There  never  was  such  a  baby  in  all  the  world.  I  think  I  should  die  if  we 
lost  him." 

"  He's  not  ill,  is  he  ?" 

"  No,  you  idiot,  quite  well  and  healthy.  Aren't  you,  my  angel  ?  Leonard, 
you  have  got  to  kiss  him,  too." 

He  put  his  arm  round  his  wife  and  drew  her  near  him,  first.  She  pushed 
him  laughingly  away.     His  face  flushed. 

She  had  been  kissing  her  baby  with  a  breath  that  was  perfumed  with 
brandy.     The  discovery  turned  him  sick. 

"  Embrace  your  son,"  she  cried. 


A    MERE   MAN  43 

"  I — I  think  I'll  take  him  back  to  the  nursery,"  he  stammered.  "  I  shan't 
drop  him,  you  know.  And  if  you  don't  get  on  with  your  dressing,  you'll  be 
late  for  dinner.     You — you  don't  mind,  do  you,  darling?" 

"  Oh,  no.  I  can't  bother  with  him  any  more.  Take  him  to  nurse,  and 
then  go  and  get  dressed  yourself.  The  Chittys  are  coming,  and  I  wired  to 
ask  Mr.  Franklin,  so  do  be  ready  in  good  time." 

"  I  didn't  know  you  had  asked  anyone,"  Leonard  said,  slightly  annoyed, 
and  then,  with  a  quick  suspicion  of  more  to  follow,  he  added,  "  That 's  all,  I 
hope  ? " 

"  No,  Mrs.  Sharpe  and  Freddie  may  look  in  after  dinner.  Freddie  was 
going  to  dine  with  her  to-night." 

"  But  I  thought  I  told  you,  Aimee," — he  tried  his  hardest  to  keep  calm, — 
"  that  I  wouldn't  have  that  man  in  the  house.  I  am  weary  of  him  and  his 
whole  set,  and  I  begin  to  believe  Bernard  is  as  bad  as  the  rest — anyhow,  I 
draw  the  line  at  Williams,  do  you  hear  ? " 

"  I  have  no  time  to  waste  now,  Leonard,  and  the  Chittys  will  be  here  in  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.     Do  go  and  dress.     We  can  discuss  these  things  afterwards." 

"Aimee, "  her  husband  began,  and  then  he  stopped  and  carried  the  child 

from  the  room. 

He  dressed  hurriedly,  with  a  nervous  sense  of  trouble  to  come.  She,  on 
the  contrary,  drew  out  her  diamonds  at  her  leisure,  and  aided  her  maid  to 
arrange  some  stars  in  her  hair. 

The  scent  of  the  dinner  reached  Leonard,  and  the  front-door  bell  rang. 
He  seized  a  handkerchief  and  stuffed  it  up  his  cuff,  while  he  ran  downstairs, 
Franklin  met  him  at  the  drawing-room  door. 

"  Glad  to  see  you,  Franklin,"  he  cried.  "  Come  in.  My  wife  will  be  down 
in  a  minute." 

His  face  had  a  queer,  drawn  look,  and  his  lips  were  curiously  white. 

"Cold  knocked  you  up?"  asked  his  friend. 

"  No.  Beastly  day,  isn't  it  ?  Boyne  seemed  in  a  nice  fix.  Blend  wouldn't 
lend  him  any  more.     I  never  knew  before  that  the  wife  had  the  money." 

"  Oh,  he  has  quite  a  decent  amount  of  his  own." 

There  was  a  pause. 

"  What  rotten  cigars  those  were  that  Arthur  gave  us  the  other  night. 
Did  you  try  them  ?  " 

"  I  never  smoke  Arthur's  cigars." 

Mrs.  Standish  came  into  the  room,  and  Franklin  rose. 

"  How  are  you  ? "    She  looked  her  best,  and  her  husband  recognized  her 


44  THE   SAVOY 

beauty  with  a  stab  of  pain.  "  So  glad  you  could  come,  Mr.  Franklin.  I  knew 
you  wouldn't  mind  a  wire  in  a  hurry.  I  only  discovered  the  Chittys  were  dis- 
engaged this  morning.     Leonard,  just  fasten  this  bracelet  for  me." 

She  peeped  at  her  reflection  in  a  mirror  over  the  fireplace.  "  Do  you 
like  this  frock,  Mr.  Franklin  ?    It 's  new." 

He  smiled.  "  I'm  not  much  of  a  judge,"  he  answered.  "  You  always 
look  charming." 

"  Tiresome  man,  when  I  put  it  on  just  for  you."  She  sat  down  near  him, 
and  the  astute  Franklin  thought,  "  She  wants  to  conciliate  me  for  some  reason  ; 
must  have  had  a  row  with  her  husband,  that  would  account  for  his  face — poor 
devil ! " 

Just  at  that  moment  the  Chittys  arrived,  and  dinner  being  announced  at 
the  same  time,  they  all  went  downstairs. 

Leonard  was  unusually  silent,  the  Australian  unusually  grave.  In  contrast 
with  these  two,  Franklin  was  witty  and  amusing,  Bernard  malicious  and 
ironical,  Aimee  recklessly  gay. 

Leonard,  when  he  did  speak,  talked  at  random  ;  the  coming  inevitable 
contest  with  his  wife  occupied  all  his  thoughts.  Thus  it  was  that,  coming  out 
of  his  abstraction,  he  caught  himself  studying  Bernard  Chitty  as  if  he  saw 
him  for  the  first  time,  and  noted  the  man's  black  hair,  keen  dark  eyes,  and 
cruel  mouth,  with  a  start  of  surprise.  He  had  a  curiously  sleek  personality, 
and  a  tongue  whose  utterances  cut  like  a  knife.  Franklin's  expression  was 
that  of  a  man  of  the  world,  and  therefore  boasted  no  taint  of  innocence,  but  it 
was  fresh  and  honest  beside  his,  and  to  this  man  Aimee  bent  her  pretty  head 
and  listened  and  laughed,  while  she  drank  her  champagne  as  if  it  had  been 
water,  and  flashed  a  look  of  defiance  at  her  husband. 

The  Australian  lifted  an  olive  in  her  large  fingers,  and  held  it  up  to  the 
light. 

"  The  right  kind,"  she  remarked  carelessly,  "  the  Italian  curved  stone.  I 
dislike  those  large  Spanish  things  saturated  with  oil.  What  is  this,"  she 
drawled  for  a  moment,  "  what  is  this  about  our  going  to  the  Covent  Garden 
Ball  ?    Are  you  thinking  of  it,  Mr.  Standish  ?" 

"  Certainly  not,"  answered  Leonard,  promptly,  when  his  wife  interposed. 

"  Oh,  yes,  you  are,"  she  said  ;  "  I  forgot  to  tell  you,  Leonard.  Ada  wants 
me  to  make  one  of  her  party.     Are  you  invited,  Mr.  Franklin  ?  " 

There  was  an  uncomfortable  pause,  then  Franklin  answered  slowly  : 

"  I  have  not  that  good  fortune." 

"  Oh,  but  Aimee,"  her  husband  said,  "  I  don't  think  you  can  go.     I  hate 


A   MERE  MAN  45 

that  sort  of  thing.     I  know  people  do  it  now,  but  unless  I  took  you  myself,  I 
shouldn't  care  about  it  for  you." 

She  turned  an  expressionless  face  in  his  direction. 

"  Ask  for  some  Benedictine,  please,  Leonard,"  she  said  ;  "  I  can't  eat  this 
sweet  without  some  liqueur.  I  forgot  you  prefer  Creme  de  Menthe,  don't  you, 
Mrs.  Chitty  ? " 

"  No,  thank  you.     Neither  for  me." 

"  We  will  stay  down  here  and  smoke,"  Aim£e,  continued.  "  Bernard,  I 
have  some  mild  cigars  which  you  must  persuade  your  wife  to  try.  Freddie 
was  telling  me  to-day  that  Reggie  Graham  is  Dolly  Marker's  latest  edition, 
is  it  true  ?  " 

Franklin  smiled.  "  Graham  is  always  being  some  one's  latest  edition,"  he 
said,  "  I  should  say  there  will  be  no  impression  left  to  print,  soon." 

"  What  relation  is  he — give  me  a  light,  Bernard — what  relation  to  Lady 
Jane  Graham  ?  " 

"  None  at  all,"  said  Leonard  sharply. 

"  Oh,  really,  I  am  surprised  !  I  always  thought  he  was  her  cousin.  Mrs. 
Chitty,  my  husband  has  been  so  dreadfully  dull  all  dinner  time,  that  I  am  sure 
you  must  have  had  a  very  stupid  evening,  I'm  so  sorry." 

The  Australian  looked  her  straight  in  the  face.  "  Mr.  Standish  never 
bores  me,"  she  said  ;  "  I  may  have  seemed  uninteresting  to  him." 

Leonard  flushed  crimson,  and  turned  to  answer  her  in  a  low,  troubled 
voice.  Franklin  intended  to  say  something  and  refrained.  Mrs.  Standish 
was  pouring  brandy  into  her  coffee  with  an  unsteady  hand. 

When  the  ladies  had  left  them,  the  men  lingered  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  followed  upstairs.  Mrs.  Sharpe  was  standing  near  the  fire,  warming  a 
shapely  foot.  Freddie  Williams  had  taken  his  place  at  the  piano,  and  was 
warbling  a  ditty  of  illicit  love.  Aimee  lolled  in  an  armchair,  the  Australian 
bolt  upright  on  a  distant  sofa,  with  a  white  face,  and  the  lamplight  full  on  her 
pretty  hair.  Franklin  took  a  seat  beside  her,  and  for  a  time  it  seemed  as  if 
they  were  merely  spectators  of  a  play. 

The  ballad  finished,  Freddie  discoursed  of  a  new  French  novel,  called 
"  M.  le  Mari,"  and  Aimee  laughed  at  his  description,  immoderately.  Mrs. 
Sharpe  took  Leonard  aside  to  tease  him  into  consenting  to  the  proposed  party 
for  the  ball,  and  Bernard  sat  silently  intent  on  Mrs.  Standish  and  her  laughter. 

Franklin  left  early,  pleading  another  engagement.  Freddie  found  a 
footstool  and  placed  it  at  Aimee's  feet,  where  he  sat  for  the  whole  of  the 
evening.     The  rest  gathered  round,  and  the  conversation  grew  sultry. 

\ 


46  THE   SA  VOY 

Leonard  talked  to  Mrs.  Chitty  at  random,  and  she  answered  composedly, 
with  no  pity  for  the  tragedy  she  guessed  at,  and  no  interest,  merely  a  forced 
smile,  and  impassive  manner. 

At  length  the  evening  came  to  an  end,  and  the  husband  and  wife  were 
alone.     She  hurried  up  to  him  with  an  excited  laugh,  and  said  thickly  : 

"  What  the  devil  made  you  so  damned  glum  all  the  evening  ?  Do  you 
want  all  the  world  to  know  that  you  are  in  a  beastly  temper?" 

"  We  will  talk  of  this  another  time,"  he  answered. 

"  No,  we  won't.     I  want  to  speak  of  it  now.     What  do  you  mean  ? " 

"  I  mean  that  you  are  tired  and  excited.  We  will  return  to  this  in  the 
morning." 

She  went  to  the  spirit  stand  and  poured  out  a  glass  of  water  from  a  jug 
near.  She  drank  it  slowly,  and  then  returned  to  the  fire.  Her  manner  was 
suddenly  more  composed. 

"  We'll  have  it  out  now,  please,  Leonard,"  she  said.  "  I  mean  to  ask  any- 
one I  like  here." 

"  And  I  forbid  you  to  ask  Williams  into  the  house  again  ;  nor  do  I  intend 
that  you  shall  see  so  much  of  Mrs.  Sharpe.     I  dislike  her  and  all  her  set." 

"  Her  set !  "  she  mimicked  him.     "  Does  that  include  the  Chittys?  " 

"  Yes,  it  does." 

There  was  a  dangerous  light  in  her  eyes. 

"You  disapprove  of  Bernard,  for  that  wife  of  his  can't  count." 

"  I  disapprove,  and  refuse  to  give  countenance  to  your  flirtation  with 
him — yes.  I  have  been  stupidly  blind  for  a  long  time,  but  I'll  be  blind  no 
more.  Mrs.  Sharpe  has  circulated  her  nasty  stories  for  the  last  time  here. 
Williams  has  sung  his  beastly  songs  for  the  last  time  in  my  house,  and  I  won't 
have  Chitty  hanging  about  you.  You  will  please  give  in  to  my  wishes,  for  I 
can't  stand  it,  and  I  won't,  Aimee,  any  more." 

The  servants  had  gone  to  bed,  and  the  house  was  so  quiet  that  they 
could  hear  the  tick  of  the  hall  clock  downstairs.  The  brilliantly  lighted  room 
showed  Leonard  Standish  pacing  it  with  a  white  face  and  rigid  lips,  and  the 
light  shone  on  his  wife's  pink  cheeks  and  brilliant  eyes  as  she  lay  back  in  the 
armchair  and  clenched  her  little  fists. 

"  It's  not  the  first  time  I've  spoken.  I  asked  you  to  give  up  Ada  long 
ago."  He  went  as  far  as  the  door  and  back  again,  his  troubled  eyes  in  little 
keeping  with  the  firmness  of  his  mouth.  "  I  suppose  you'll  say  I've  lost  my 
temper,"  he  continued.  "  I  daresay  I  have.  But  it's  the  first  time  I've  lost  it 
with  you,  anyway." 


./    MERE   MAN  47 

She  was  thinking  deeply,  and  barely  noticed  that  he  spoke. 

"  I  don't  want  to  be  horrid  to  you,  Aimee,  but  you  made  me  mad  to-night, 
and  I  know  that  if  I  don't  insist  on  being  obeyed  now,  my  weakness  will  be 
criminal.  I  want  to  help  you,  not  to  ruin  you,  as  so  many  men  do  their  wives, 
by  foolish  complaisance.  You  must  get  out  of  this  beastly  set,  and  get  out  of 
it  at  once." 

He  drew  aside  the  window  curtains  and  looked  out  at  the  night.  The 
moon  shone  on  the  snow,  and  changed  even  the  London  square  into  some- 
thing almost  poetical  and  beautiful.     He  turned  back  again. 

"  I  ought  to  have  been  more  careful  of  you,"  he  said.  "We  should  have 
begun  better.  I  don't  blame  you  wholly,  it  was  my  fault  too.  Aimee — Aimee, 
have  you  nothing  to  say  ?  " 

She  rose  with  a  set  face,  and  went  towards  the  door.  He  sprang  forward 
and  caught  her  arm. 

"  Come  back,  child.  Don't  go  away  like  this,  surely  you  know  that  find- 
ing fault  with  you  nearly  breaks  my  heart.  Aimee,  darling,  do  listen  to  me. 
I'm  stupid  at  explaining  things,  I  know,  but  I'll  try,  if  you'll  be  patient,  and 
I'm  sure  you'll  see  it's  right  to  do  what  I  want,  in  the  end." 

"  Look  here,  Leonard,"  she  said,  slowly,  "  you  are  a  fool  to  waste  your 
breath.  Your  suspicions  of  Bernard  insult  me,  just  as  your  suspicions  of  the 
rest  insult  my  friends.  I  don't  want  to  talk  about  it  any  more,  I'm  going 
to  bed." 

He  drew  back,  as  if  he  had  been  struck  ;  her  face,  hardened  and  white, 
looked  at  his  own.  She  went  back  to  the  table,  and  poured  out  some  brandy, 
which  she  carried  upstairs  in  her  hand. 

He  followed  a  few  minutes  later,  and  found  she  had  locked  the  door. 

The  night  seemed  long,  and  the  dawn  came  slowly.  He  lay  on  the 
smoking-room  sofa  and  tried  to  think,  but  consecutive  thought  would  not  come. 
Directly  the  servants  were  astir,  he  changed  his  clothes,  and  went  and  had  a 
Turkish  bath.    He  felt  half  afraid  to  go  home. 


IV 

Mrs.  Standish  was  out,  his  man  told  him  when  he  returned  home,  and  he 
seemed  wishful  to  add  to  the  fact,  or  at  least  to  be  questioned  on  the  subject, 
but  Leonard  passed  him,  and  went  upstairs.     He  met  her  maid  coming  down. 

Mrs.  Standish  had  gone  to  spend  the  evening  with  Mrs.  Sharpe,  and  had 
given  her  leave  to  go  out. 


48  THE   SAVOY 

Leonard  nodded,  with  no  sign  of  surprise,  and  changed  his  clothes  for  a 
smoking  suit. 

Before  going  down  to  dinner,  he  peeped  in  at  the  nursery.  The  boy  lay 
sleeping  peacefully  in  his  little  crib,  with  one  small  fist  buried  in  his  cheek. 

Mrs.  Standish  had  come  in  and  kissed  him  before  she  went  out,  the  nurse 
said,  and  might  have  added,  how  she  had  cried,  but  did  not  dare. 

He  found  some  paper  and  scribbled  a  hasty  note  in  pencil,  begging  her  not 
to  give  people  a  chance  to  talk,  and  asking  her  to  return  for  their  child's  sake. 
He  sent  it  round  to  Mrs.  Sharpe's  by  his  own  man,  and  told  him  to  wait  if 
needful  till  they  returned  home  from  the  theatre  (should  they  be  out),  and  not 
to  come  back  without  an  answer. 

Then  he  took  a  cigar  and  strolled  into  the  smoking-room,  where  he 
read  for  some  time. 

To  do  so  needed  some  self-control,  as  he  was  miserably  restless. 

Eleven  struck.  He  threw  the  paper  away,  and  sat  down  at  his  writing 
table.  He  wrote  half-a-dozen  notes  which  had  been  neglected,  and  then  idly 
began  tracing  patterns  on  the  blotting  pad.  The  phantoms  had  returned,  the 
air  of  Freddie's  latest  song  rang  in  his  ears,  and  he  remembered  with  a  start 
another  evening  when  he  had  waited  for  her,  and  she  had  come  back  from 
Hurlingham — as  she  had  often  done  since. 

Twelve,  and  his  man  at  last. 

"  Mrs.  Sharpe  gave  me  this  note,  sir.  She  had  been  at  the  theatre.  I 
waited  till  she  came  in,  as  you  told  me." 

"  And  your  mistress  ?  " 

"  I  didn't  see  her,  sir.     Is  that  all,  sir  ? " 

"  Yes,  you  can  go  to  bed." 

He  hurriedly  tore  open  the  envelope.  His  own,  unopened,  fell  out.  On 
an  added  piece  of  paper,  in  Ada  Sharpe's  bold  handwriting,  were  the  words. 

"  Dear  Mr.  Standish, 

"  Aimee  isn't  here.     There  must  be  some  mistake.     I  haven't  seen 
her  since  last  night.     I  hope  there  is  nothing  wrong. 

"  Sincerely  yours, 

"  Ada  Sharpe." 

He  turned  so  sick  at  heart,  that  for  a  time  he  sat  like  a  statue,  with 
no  movement,  and  no  colour  in  his  face  ;  he  scarcely  thought. 

Then,  very  slowly,  with  a  foreknowledge  of  what  he  was  to  find  there,  he 
went  up  to  her  room. 


A    MERE  MAN  49 

It  lay  on  the  dressing  table,  the  white  sheet  of  paper  telling  him  that 
she  had  gone.  With  a  cry  of  agony,  he  flung  himself  on  the  bed  which  they 
had  shared,  and  buried  his  face  in  the  pillows. 

And  the  child  started  crying  in  the  room  above  as  if  it  knew  that  its 
little  life  was  desolate  indeed. 

*  #  #  #  *  *  * 

The  next  morning  found  Leonard  standing  outside  the  Chittys'  door. 
He  was  told  that  Mrs.  Chitty  would  see  him,  and  he  went  upstairs.  They 
were  in  curious  contrast,  he  so  pale  and  shaken,  she  so  calm  and  un- 
moved. 

"  I  suppose  you — you've  heard,"  he  said. 

"  Yes." 
i 
"  I  came  to  ask  you  if  I  can  be  of  any  use  ? " 

"  No  thank  you — none." 

He  looked  at  her  brown  eyes,  with  their  womanly  softness,  and 
marvelled. 

"  I  suppose  you  will  institute  proceedings  for  a  divorce,"  he  said. 

The  room  was  manly,  like  herself,  and  devoid  of  any  useless  luxury.  She 
rose  and  went  towards  the  fireplace,  and  her  neat  dress  showed  her  superb 
figure  to  good  advantage. 

"  The  truth  is,  Mr.  Standish,"  she  said,  "  we  are  companions  merely  in 
misfortune,  and  I  think  we  are  better  apart.  You  are  powerless  to  aid  me, 
and  I — I  regret  it — am  powerless  to  comfort  you.  You  will  probably  get  a 
divorce — it  is  the  only  thing  for  you  to  do — but  I  shall  not." 

"  Not !  "  he  stammered. 

She  smiled,  and  he  realized  that  there  was  something  more  powerful  in 
that  smile  than  in  any  other  expression  of  her  face. 

"  You  may  as  well  have  the  facts.  Bernard  has  a  hundred  a  year  of  his 
own.     The  rest  of  the  money  is  mine.     Had  your  wife  any  money?" 

"  None — but  her  settlements." 

"  I  thought  so.     Well,  in  a  short  time  I  expect  him  home." 

"  But  you  can't  mean  that  you  will  receive  him  ?" 

The  Australian  laughed.  "  Not  exactly  with  open  arms,  Mr.  Standish, 
but  I  shall  receive  him  all  the  same.  I  have  no  relations  in  Australia,  and  no 
real  friends  in  England.  I  have  no  choice.  But  I  don't  appeal  to  your  pity," 
she  added  quickly,  "  I  appeal  to  no  one's  pity." 

Leonard  rose. 

"  I  suppose  you  think  my  visit  an  intrusion,  Mrs.  Chitty?"  he  said. 


So  THE   SAVOY 

The  light  fell  full  on  his  boyish  face,  altered  and  drawn  with  misery. 
The  Australian  flushed  crimson,  and  said  in  a  voice  that  was  full  of  a  woman's 
caressing  tenderness  : 

"  You  are  one  of  those  men  who  should  never  have  had  this  to  bear.  I 
believe  you  would  be  good  to  a  woman,  and  patient  with  her.  I  thought  you 
weak,  but  I  fancy  you  were  only  blind.  Will  you  shake  hands  and  say  you 
forgive  me  ?  " 

He  did  not  quite  understand,  but  he  knew  there  was  something  quaintly 
motherly  in  her  action  which  amused  him  while  it  touched  him. 

"  Of  course,  I'll  shake  hands,"  he  said.  "And  if  you  ever  happen  to  want 
aid  in  any  little  way,  you'll  send  for  me,  won't  you  ? " 

She  hesitated,  and  then  she  said  : 

"  Yes,  if  I  ever  do,  I  will.     Good-bye." 

Leonard  found  there  was  a  lady  waiting  to  see  him  when  he  got  home. 
The  day  reminded  him  of  the  time  after  the  funeral  of  his  mother,  years  ago. 
It  was  crowded  with  events,  and  yet  none  of  them  mattered. 

He  went  upstairs  like  a  man  who  was  very  weary,  and  pushed  open  the 
drawing-room  door. 

Lady  Jane  came  towards  him  with  outstretched  hands. 

"  Leonard,  my  poor  boy  ! "  she  said. 

The  words  arrested  him,  and  he  felt  a  queer  choking  sensation  in  his 
throat. 

"  I  say — don't — don't  make  me  be  a  fool,"  he  cried,  "  don't,  please." 

She  drew  back,  and  put  a  handkerchief  to  her  lips. 

"  I  can't  forgive  myself,"  she  said.  "  Oh,  if  only  I  hadn't  been  such  a 
coward.     How  you  must  hate  me." 

He  stared  at  her,  with  a  curious  smile  touching  his  lips. 

"  What  on  earth  do  you  mean  ?  " 

"  That  day  when  you  came  to  me,  oh,  if  only  I  had  spoken  out !  " 

"  Then  you  did  know  something,"  he  said. 

"  I  knew  nothing  for  certain,  but  I  had  heard  rumours,  yes.  Oh,  Leonard, 
what  must  you  think  ?     And  I  might  have  saved  you  all  this." 

The  smile  deepened. 

"  My  dear  Lady  Jane,  it  really  doesn't  matter  ;  nothing  matters  now. 
How  did  you  hear  about — her  ?  " 

"  Mr.  Franklin  came  round  this  morning.  It  seems  Mr.  Leighton  met 
them  at  the  station — he  was  seeing  some  friends  off  by  the  same  train.  I 
hardly  know  Mr.  Franklin,  but  he  seemed  much  worried  over  the  whole  thing. 


A    MERE   MAN  5i 

and  begged  me  to  come  and  see  you.  He  said,  a  man  felt  such  a  useless  brute 
at  such  a  time." 

"  That's  so  like  Franklin,"  Leonard  said.  "  He's  one  of  the  best  chaps  I 
know." 

"  We  were  going  down  to  Folkestone  to-morrow,  I  have  taken  a  house 
there— — " 

He  interrupted  :  "  I  forgot  you  had  been  ill.     Are  you  better  ?  " 

"  Oh,  yes,  thank  you.  But  I  want — and  Harold  wants — you  to  come  to 
us.  It  will  make  me  feel  you  forgive  me,  and  we  shall  be  quite  quiet  down 
there.  It — it  would  be  good  for  you  to  get  away  from  London,  and  good  for 
the  child." 

He  started,  and  then  laid  his  head  down  on  his  elbow  on  the  mantelpiece. 

"  I  will  take  great  care  of  him,  Leonard.  Although  I've  never  had  a  child, 
I  know  how  to  manage  them  well.     You  can  trust  him  to  my  care." 

He  didn't  answer. 

"  Any  business  you  have  to  arrange  can  be  done  down  there.  We  can 
talk  it  over  together,  we  three." 

He  looked  up  suddenly. 

"  I — I  am  such  a  coward  of  the  future,"  he  said. 

"  Did  you  sleep  last  night  ?  " 

"  No- — nor  the  night  before." 

"  I  thought  not.  Now  I'm  going  to  take  possession  of  you.  Ring  that 
bell  near  you,  and  give  orders  that  the  nurse  is  to  be  ready  to  go  home  with 
me  in  an  hour — you  must  sleep  in  my  house  to-night." 

"  There  is  so  much  to  do." 

"  Leave  it  to  others.  I  insist  on  your  giving  in  to  me.  Will  you  be  with 
us  by  dinner-time  ?  " 

"  Yes,  anything  you  like." 

By-and-by  he  left  her,  and  crept  away  upstairs,  and  shut  himself  into  the 
bedroom. 

The  house  was  to  be  let,  and  he  intended  to  leave  his  man  behind  to 
arrange  everything.     It  seemed  years  since  last  night. 

He  pulled  open  the  drawers,  the  masses  of  white  under-linen,  sweetly 
scented,  met  his  view.  He  seized  them  in  his  arms,  and  bundled  them  into  a 
large  trunk.  Then  he  went  on  to  the  gloves  and  handkerchiefs,  the  dainty  silk 
petticoats,  and  the  tiny  boots  and  shoes.  He  came  to  the  wardrobe  in  its  turn, 
and  fingered  the  soft  dresses  with  a  tender  touch.  In  this,  she  had  gone  to  the 
Paris  races  a  year  ago  ;  in  this,  she  had  driven  beside  him  on  the  Yorkshire 

D 


52  THE   SAVOY 

moors  ;  and,  lastly,  he  came  upon  a  box  full  of  sheeny  satin,  and  his  hands 
shook  as  he  lifted  it — her  pretty  wedding  dress,  with  its  trimming  of  old  lace 
— and  laid  it  among  the  others  in  the  trunk. 

He  pulled  a  second  box  forward,  and  commenced  filling  that.  The 
writing-table,  a  dainty  Louis  Quinze  table,  a  wedding  present,  he  came  to  in 
time.  He  broke  it  open,  and  carried  the  drawer  full  of  papers  to  the  fire  he 
had  caused  to  be  lighted  an  hour  before.  In  piling  the  letters  on  to  the  flames, 
he  caught  sight  of  one  in  Bernard's  writing,  and  swore.  He  cursed  himself  for 
a  fool,  and  rescued  the  rest.     These  might  be  useful  in  an  action  for  divorce. 

There  were  fourteen  in  all.  He  put  them  into  a  large  envelope,  and 
sealed  it. 

The  day  wore  on.  A  few  hours  later  he  emerged,  gave  some  orders,  had 
his  own  portmanteau  placed  on  a  hansom,  and  drove  away. 

He  entered  Lady  Jane's  drawing-room,  and  greeted  Harold,  as  he  had 
entered  and  greeted  them  all  his  life. 

There  was  no  difference  in  him  at  dinner.  He  asked  once  after  their 
young  niece,  May  Egerton,  and  added,  that  she  was  the  prettiest  girl  he  had 
ever  known  ;  and  turned  crimson  when  he  had  said  it,  remembering  whom  he 
had  admired  more.  He  affected  not  to  notice  that  Lady  Jane's  eyes  were 
miserably  red,  or  that  her  manner,  in  her  keen  self-reproach,  had  changed 
towards  himself.  Left  alone  with  her  husband,  the  few  short  words  on  the 
subject  they  exchanged  merely  put  discussion  off  till  another  time.  He  met 
the  nurse  in  leaving  the  dining-room,  and  asked  her  carelessly  if  the  child  was 
all  right. 

"  Yes,  sir,"  she  faltered,  in  her  timid  pity  for  him.  "  He's  sleeping  beau- 
tiful.    I'm  just  going  down  to  have  my  supper,  sir." 

"  Thank  you,"  he  said,  abruptly,  and  went  upstairs. 

"  Where's  Leonard  ?  "  asked  Lady  Jane,  as  her  husband  entered  the  draw- 
ing-room alone. 

"  He's  gone  upstairs — I  fancy,  to  see  the  boy.  And  I  hope  to  God  it  will 
thoroughly  upset  him.  The  man's  calm  may  be  natural,  but  it's  horrid  to 
watch." 

Lady  Jane  put  her  head  down  on  her  hands. 

"  Don't,  don't,"  her  husband  pleaded,  "  he  has  the  kid,  you  know,  after  all." 

And  he  said  it  as  only  a  childless  man  could  have  said  it,  as  his  weeping 
wife  knew,  - 

A  New  Writer. 


SAINT-GERMAIN-EN-LAYE 

1887-1895 

HROUGH  the  green  boughs,  I  hardly  saw  thy  face 
They  twined  so  close  ;  the  sun  was  in  mine  eyes  ; 
And  now  the  sullen  trees  in  sombre  lace, 
Stand  bare  beneath  the  sinister,  sad  skies. 

O  sun  and  summer  !    Say,  in  what  far  night, 
The  gold  and  green,  the  glory  of  thine  head, 
Of  bough  and  branch  have  fallen  ?    O,  the  white, 
Gaunt  ghosts  that  flutter  where  thy  feet  have  sped, 

Across  the  terrace,  that  is  desolate, 
But  rang  then  with  thy  laughter  :  ghost  of  thee, 
That  holds  its  shroud  up  with  most  delicate 
Dead  fingers  ;  and,  behind,  the  ghost  of  me, 

Tripping  fantastic  with  a  mouth  that  jeers 
At  roseal  flowers  of  youth,  the  turbid  streams 
Toss  in  derision  down  the  barren  years 
To  Death,  the  Host  of  all  our  golden  dreams. 


Ernest  Dovvson. 


ROSA  ALCHEMICA 

i 

FEW  years  ago  an  extraordinary  religious  frenzy  took  hold 
upon  the  peasantry  of  a  remote  Connemara  headland  ;  and 
a  number  of  eccentric  men  and  women,  who  had  turned  an 
old  custom-house  into  a  kind  of  college,  were  surprised  at 
prayer,  as  it  was  then  believed,  by  a  mob  of  fishermen,  stone 
masons,  and  small  farmers,  and  beaten  to  death  with  stones, 
which  were  heaped  up  close  at  hand  to  be  ready  for  the  next  breach  in  the 
wave-battered  pier.  Vague  rumours  of  pagan  ceremonies  and  mysterious 
idolatries  had  for  some  time  drifted  among  the  cabins  ;  and  the  indignation  of 
the  ignorant  had  been  further  inflamed  by  a  priest,  unfrocked  for  drunkenness, 
who  had  preached  at  the  road-side  of  the  secret  coming  of  the  Antichrist.  I 
first  heard  of  these  unfortunates,  on  whom  the  passion  for  universal  ideas, 
which  distinguishes  the  Celtic  and  Latin  races,  was  to  bring  so  dreadful  a 
martyrdom,  but  a  few  weeks  before  the  end  ;  and  the  change  in  my  opinions 
which  has  made  my  writings  so  much  less  popular  and  intelligible,  and  driven 
me  to  the  verge  of  taking  the  habit  of  St.  Dominic,  was  brought  about  by  the 
strange  experiences  I  endured  in  their  presence. 

I  had  just  published  "  Rosa  Alchemica,"  a  little  work  on  the  alchemists, 
somewhat  in  the  manner  of  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  and  had  received  many 
letters  from  believers  in  the  arcane  sciences,  upbraiding  what  they  called  my 
timidity,  for  they  could  not  believe  so  evident  sympathy  but  the  sympathy  of 
the  artist,  which  is  half  pity,  for  everything  which  has  moved  men's  hearts  in 
any  age.  I  had  discovered,  early  in  my  researches,  that  their  doctrine  was  no 
merely  chemical  phantasy  but  a  philosophy  they  applied  to  the  world,  to  the 
elements,  and  to  man  himself;  and  that  they  sought  to  fashion  gold  out  of 
common  metals  merely  as  part  of  an  universal  transmutation  of  all  things  into 
some  divine  and  imperishable  substance  ;  and  this  enabled  me  to  make  my 
little  book  a  fanciful  reverie  over  the  transmutation  of  life  into  art,  and  a  cry 
of  measureless  desire  for  a  world  made  wholly  of  essences. 

I  was  sitting,  dreaming  of  what  I  had  written,  in  my  house  in  one  of  the 
old  parts  of  Dublin,  a  house  my  ancestors  had  made  almost  famous  through 


ROSA    ALCHEMIC  A  57 

their  part  in  the  politics  of  the  city,  and  their  friendships  with  the  famous 
men  of  their  generations  ;  and  was  feeling  an  unwonted  happiness  at  having 
at  last  accomplished  a  long  cherished  design,  and  made  my  rooms  an 
expression  of  this  favourite  doctrine.  The  portraits,  of  more  historical 
than  artistic  interest,  had  gone  ;  and  old  Flemish  tapestry,  full  of  the  blue 
and  bronze  of  peacocks,  fell  over  the  doors,  and  shut  out  all  common  history 
and  all  unbeautiful  activity ;  and  now,  I  repeated  to  myself,  when  I 
looked  at  my  Crivelli,  and  pondered  on  the  rose  in  the  hand  of  the 
Virgin,  wherein  the  form  was  so  delicate  and  precise  that  it  seemed  more  like 
a  thought  than  a  flower,  or  at  the  gray  dawn  and  rapturous  faces  of  my 
Francesca,  I  knew  all  a  Christian's  ecstasy  without  his  slavery  to  rule  and 
custom  ;  when  I  pondered  over  the  antique  bronze  gods  and  goddesses,  which 
I  had  mortgaged  my  house  to  buy,  I  had  all  a  pagan's  delight  in  various 
beauty,  and  without  his  terror  at  sleepless  destiny,  and  his  labour  with  many 
sacrifices  :  and  I  had  only  to  go  to  my  book-shelf,  where  every  book  was 
bound  in  leather,  stamped  with  intricate  ornament,  and  of  a  carefully  chosen 
colour  ;  Shakespeare  in  the  orange  of  the  glory  of  the  world,  Dante  in  the  dull 
red  of  his  anger,  Milton  in  the  blue-gray  of  his  formal  calm  ;  and  I  could 
experience  what  I  would  of  human  passions  without  their  bitterness  and  with- 
out satiety.  I  had  gathered  about  me  all  gods  because  I  believed  in  none,  and 
experienced  every  pleasure  because  I  gave  myself  to  none,  but  held  myself 
apart,  individual,  indissoluble,  a  mirror  of  polished  steel.  I  looked  in  the 
triumph  of  this  imagination  at  the  birds  of  Hera,  glowing  in  the  firelight  as 
though  they  were  wrought  of  jewels  ;  and  to  my  mind,  for  which  symbolism 
was  a  necessity,  they  seemed  the  door-keepers  of  my  world,  shutting  out  all 
that  was  not  of  as  affluent  a  beauty  as  their  own  ;  and  for  a  moment  I  thought 
as  I  had  thought  in  so  many  other  moments,  that  it  was  possible  to  rob  life  of 
every  bitterness  except  the  bitterness  of  death  ;  and  then  a  thought  which  had 
followed  this  thought,  time  after  time,  filled  me  with  a  passionate  sorrow.  All 
those  forms  ;  that  Madonna  with  her  brooding  purity,  those  rapturous  faces 
singing  in  the  morning  light,  those  bronze  divinities  with  their  passionless 
dignity,  those  wild  shapes  rushing  from  despair  to  despair  ;  belonged  to  a 
divine  world  wherein  I  had  no  part ;  and  every  experience,  however  profound, 
every  perception,  however  exquisite,  would  bring  me  the  bitter  dream  of  a 
limitless  energy  I  could  never  know  ;  and  even  in  my  most  perfect  moment  I 
would  be  two  selves,  the  one  watching  with  heavy  eyes  the  other's  moment  of 
content.  I  had  heaped  about  me  the  gold  born  on  the  crucibles  of  others,  but 
the  supreme  dream  of  the  alchemists,  the  transmutation  of  the  weary  heart 


58  THE   SAVOY 

into  a  weariless  spirit,  was  as  far  from  me  as,  I  doubted  not,  it  had  been  from 
them  also.  I  turned  to  my  last  purchase,  a  set  of  alchemical  apparatus,  which, 
the  dealer  in  the  Rue  le  Peletier  had  assured  me,  once  belonged  to  Raymond 
Lully,  and,  as  I  joined  the  alembic  to  the  attianor,  and  laid  the  lavacrum  marce 
at  their  side,  I  understood  the  alchemical  doctrine,  that  all  beings,  divided  from 
the  great  deep,  where  the  spirits  wander  one  and  yet  a  multitude,  are  weary ;  and 
sympathized,  in  the  pride  of  my  connoisseurship,  with  the  consuming  thirst  for 
destruction  which  made  the  alchemists  veil  under  his  symbols  of  lions  and 
dragons,  of  eagles  and  ravens,  of  dew  and  of  nitre,  a  search  for  an  essence 
which  would  dissolve  all  mortal  things.  I  repeated  to  myself  the  ninth  key  of 
Basilius  Valentinus,  in  which  he  compares  the  fire  of  the  last  day  to  the  fire  of 
an  alchemist,  and  the  world  to  an  alchemist's  furnace,  and  would  have  us 
know  that  all  must  be  dissolved  before  the  divine  substance,  material  gold  or 
immaterial  ecstasy,  awake.  I  had  dissolved  indeed  the  mortal  world,  and 
lived  amid  immortal  essences,  but  had  obtained  no  miraculous  ecstasy.  As  I 
thought  of  these  things,  I  drew  aside  the  curtains  and  looked  out  into  the 
darkness,  and  it  seemed  to  my  troubled  fancy  that  all  those  little  points  of 
light  filling  the  sky  were  the  furnaces  of  innumerable  divine  alchemists,  who 
labour  continually,  turning  lead  into  gold,  weariness  into  ecstasy,  bodies  into 
souls,  the  darkness  into  God  ;  and  at  their  perfect  labour,  my  mortality  grew 
heavy,  and  I  cried  out,  as  so  many  dreamers  and  men  of  letters  in  our  age 
have  cried,  for  the  birth  of  that  elaborate  spiritual  beauty  which  could  alone 
uplift  souls  weighted  with  so  many  dreams. 


II 

My  reverie  was  broken  by  a  loud  knocking  at  the  door,  and  I  wondered 
the  more  at  this  because  I  had  no  visitors,  and  had  bid  my  servants  to  do  all 
things  silently,  lest  they  broke  the  dream  of  my  inner  life.  Feeling  a  little 
curious,  I  resolved  to  go  to  the  door  myself,  and,  taking  one  of  the  silver 
candlesticks  from  the  mantelpiece,  began  to  descend  the  stairs.  The  servants 
appeared  to  be  out,  for  though  the  sound  poured  through  every  corner  and 
crevice  of  the  house,  there  was  no  stir  in  the  lower  rooms.  I  remembered  that 
my  needs  were  so  few,  my  part  in  life  so  little,  that  they  had  begun  to  come 
and  go  as  they  would,  often  leaving  me  alone  for  hours.  The  emptiness  and 
silence  of  a  world,  from  which  I  had  driven  everything  but  dreams,  suddenly- 
overwhelmed  me  and  I  shuddered  as  I  drew  the  bolt.  I  found  before  me 
Michael  Robartes,  whom  I  had  not  seen  for  years,  and  whose  wild  red  hair, 


ROSA    ALCHEMJCA  59 

fierce  eyes,  sensitive,  tremulous  lips  and  rough  clothes,  made  him  look  now 
just  as  they  used  to  do  fifteen  years  before,  something  between  a  debauchee, 
a  saint,  and  a  peasant.  He  had  recently  come  to  Ireland,  he  said,  and  wished 
to  see  me  on  a  matter  of  importance,  indeed,  the  only  matter  of  importance 
for  him  and  me.  His  voice  brought  visibly  before  me  our  student  years 
in  Paris,  and  remembering  a  mesmeric  power  he  had  once  possessed  over  me, 
a  little  fear  mingled  with  much  annoyance  at  this  irrelevant  intrusion,  as  I  led 
the  way  up  the  wide  staircase,  where  Swift  had  passed  joking  and  railing,  and 
Curran  telling  stories  and  quoting  Greek  in  simpler  days,  before  men's  minds, 
subtilized  and  complicated  by  the  romantic  movement  in  art  and  literature, 
began  to  tremble  on  the  verge  of  some  unimagined  revelation.  I  felt  that  my 
hand  shook  and  saw  that  the  light  of  the  candle  wavered  and  quivered  more 
than  it  need  have,  upon  the  meanids  on  the  old  French  panels,  making  them 
look  like  the  first  beings  slowly  shaping  in  the  formless  and  void  darkness. 
When  the  door  had  closed,  and  the  peacock  curtain,  glimmering  like  many- 
coloured  flame;  fell  between  us  and  the  world,  I  felt  in  a  way  I  could  not 
understand,  that  some  singular  and  unexpected  thing  was  about  to  happen.  I 
went  over  to  the  mantelpiece  and  set  the  candlestick  upon  it,  and  finding  that 
a  little  painted  bowl  from  the  workshop  of  Orazio  Fontana,  which  I  used  for 
holding  antique  amulets,  had  fallen  on  its  side,  and  poured  out  its  contents,  I 
lingered  partly  to  collect  my  thoughts,  and  partly  to  gather  the  amulets  into 
the  bowl  with  that  habitual  reverence  which  seemed  to  me  the  due  of  things  so 
long  connected  with  secret  hopes  and  terrors.  When  I  turned  I  saw  Robartes 
standing  in  the  middle  of  the  room  and  looking  straight  before  him  as  though 
he  saw  some  one  or  something  I  could  not,  and  whispering  to  himself.  He 
heard  me  move,  and  coming  toward  the  fire,  sat  down  and  began  gazing  at  the 
flame.  I  turned  my  chair  towards  him  and  sat  down  also  and  waited  for  him  to 
speak.    He  watched  the  rising  and  falling  of  the  flame  for  a  moment  and  began. 

"  I  have  come  to  ask  you  that  question  which  I  asked  you  in  the  Cafe  de 
la  Paix,  and  which  you  left  Paris  rather  than  answer." 

He  had  turned  his  eyes  towards  me  and  I  saw  them  glitter  in  the  firelight 
as  I  replied  : 

"  You  mean,  will  I  become  an  initiate  of  your  Order  of  the  Alchemical 
Rose?  I  would  not  consent  in  Paris,  when  I  was  full  of  unsatisfied  desire  and 
now  that  I  have  at  last  fashioned  my  life  according  to  my  desire,  am  I  likely 
to  consent  ? " 

"  You  have  changed  greatly  since  then,"  he  answered.  "  I  have  read  your 
books,   and   now   I   see  you  among  all  these  images,  and   I   understand  you 


60  THE   SAVOY 

better  than  you  do  yourself,  for  I  have  been  with  many  and  many  dreamers  at 
the  same  cross  ways.  You  have  shut  away  the  world  and  gathered  the  gods 
about  you,  and  if  you  do  not  throw  yourself  at  their  feet,  you  will  be  always 
full  of  lassitude  and  of  wavering  purpose  ;  for  a  man  must  forget  he  is  miserable 
in  the  bustle  and  noise  of  the  multitude  in  this  world  and  time,  or  seek  a 
mystical  union  with  the  multitude  who  govern  this  world  and  time." 

For  a  moment  the  room  appeared  to  darken,  as  it  used  to  do  when  he  was 
about  to  perform  some  singular  experiment,  and  in  the  darkness  the  peacocks 
upon  the  doors  seemed  to  glow  with  a  more  intense  colour.  I  cast  off  the 
illusion,  which  was,  I  believed,  caused  merely  by  memory,  for  I  would  not 
acknowledge  that  he  could  overcome  my  now  mature  intellect,  and  said : 

"  Even  if  I  grant  that  I  need  a  spiritual  belief  and  some  form  of  worship, 
why  should  I  go  to  Eleusis,  and  not  to  Calvary  ? "  He  leaned  forward  and 
began  speaking  with  a  slightly  rhythmical  intonation,  and  as  he  spoke  I  had  to 
struggle  again  with  the  shadow ;  as  of  some  older  night  than  the  night  of  the 
sun ;  which  began  to  dim  the  light  of  the  candles  and  to  blot  out  the  little 
gleams  upon  the  corners  of  picture  frames  and  on  the  bronze  divinities,  while  it 
left  the  peacocks  to  glimmer  and  glow  as  though  each  separate  colour  were  a 
living  spirit.  I  had  fallen  into  a  profound  dreamlike  reverie,  in  which  I  heard 
him  speaking  as  at  a  distance.  "  And  yet  there  is  no  one  who  communes  with 
only  one  god,"  he  was  saying,  "  and  the  more  a  man  lives  in  imagination  and  in 
a  refined  understanding,  the  more  gods  does  he  meet  with  and  talk  with,  and 
the  more  does  he  come  under  the  power  of  Lear,  and  Hamlet,  and  Lancelot, 
and  Faust,  and  Beatrice,  and  Quixote,  divinities  who  took  upon  themselves 
spiritual  bodies  in  the  minds  of  the  modern  poets  and  romance-writers,  and 
under  the  power  of  the  old  divinities,  who,  since  the  Renaissance,  have  won 
everything  of  their  ancient  worship  except  the  sacrifice  of  birds  and 
beasts  and  fishes,  the  fragrance  of  garlands  and  the  -smoke  of  incense.  The 
man}-  think  humanity  made  these  divinities,  and  that  it  can  unmake  them 
again  ;  but  we  who  have  seen  them  pass  in  rattling  harness,  and  in  soft  robes, 
and  heard  them  speak  with  articulate  voices  while  we  lay  in  deathlike  trance, 
know  that  they  are  always  making  and  unmaking  humanity,  which  is 
indeed  but  the  trembling  of  their  lips."  He  had  stood  up  and  begun  to 
walk  to  and  fro,  and  had  become  in  my  waking  dream  a  shuttle  weaving 
an  immense  web  whose  folds  had  begun  to  fill  the  room.  The  room  seemed 
to  have  become  inexplicably  silent,  as  though  all  but  the  web  and  the 
weaving  were  at  an  end  in  the  world.  "  They  have  come  to  us.  They  have 
come  to  us,"  the  voice  began,  "  all  that  have  ever  been  in  your  reverie,  all 


ROSA    ALCHEMICA  61 

that  you  have  met  with  in  books.  There  is  Lear,  his  beard  still  wet  with  the 
thunderstorm,  and  he  laughs  because  you  thought  yourself  an  existence  who 
are  but  a  shadow,  and  him  a  shadow  who  is  an  eternal  god  ;  and  there  is 
Beatrice,  with  her  lips  half-parted  in  a  smile,  as  though  all  the  stars  were  about 
to  pass  away  in  a  sigh  of  love  ;  and  there  is  the  mother  of  that  god  of  humility 
who  cast  so  great  a  spell  over  men  that  they  have  tried  to  unpeople  their  hearts 
that  he  might  reign  alone,  but  she  holds  in  her  hand  the  rose  whose  every  petal 
is  a  god  ;  and  there,  O  !  swiftly  she  comes,  is  Aphrodite  under  a  twilight  falling 
from  the  wings  of  numberless  sparrows,  and  about  her  feet  are  the  gray  and 
white  doves."  In  the  midst  of  my  dream  I  saw  him  hold  out  his  left  arm  and 
pass  his  right  hand  over  it  as  though  he  stroked  the  wings  of  doves.  I  made  a 
violent  effort  which  seemed  almost  to  tear  me  in  two,  and  said  with  a  forced 
determination,  "  Your  philosophy  is  charming  as  a  phantasy,  but,  carried  to  the 
point  of  belief,  it  is  a  supreme  delusion,  and,  enforced  by  mesmeric  glamour,  a 
supreme  crime.  You  would  sweep  me  away  into  an  indefinite  world  which  fills 
me  with  terror  ;  and  yet  a  man  is  great,  just  in  so  far  as  he  can  make  his  mind 
reflect  everything  with  indifferent  precision  like  a  mirror."  I  seemed  to  be 
perfectly  master  of  myself,  and  went  on,  but  more  rapidly,  "  I  command  you  to 
leave  me  at  once,  for  your  ideas  and  your  phantasies  are  but  the  illusions  that 
eat  the  world  like  maggots  ;  they  creep  into  civilizations  when  they  decline,  and 
into  minds  when  they  decay."  I  had  grown  suddenly  angry,  and,  seizing  the 
alembic  from  the  table,  was  about  to  rise  and  fling  it,  when  the  peacocks  on  the 
door  behind  him  appeared  to  grow  immense  ;  and  then  the  alembic  fell  from 
my  fingers,  and  I  was  drowned  in  a  tide  of  green  and  bronze  feathers,  and  as  I 
struggled  hopelessly  I  heard  his  distant  voice  saying,  "  Our  master,  Avicenna, 
has  written  that  all  life  proceeds  out  of  corruption."  The  glittering  feathers 
had  now  covered  me  completely,  and  I  knew  that  I  had  struggled  for  hundreds 
of  years  and  was  conquered  at  last.  I  was  sinking  into  the  depth  when 
the  green  and  bronze  that  seemed  to  fill  the  world  became  a  sea  of  flame  and 
swept  me  away,  and  as  I  was  swirled  along  I  heard  a  voice  over  my  head  cry, 
"  The  mirror  is  broken  in  two  pieces  ;  "  and  another  voice  answer, "  The  mirror 
is  broken  in  four  pieces,"  and  a  more  distant  voice  cry  with  an  exultant  cry, 
"  The  mirror  is  broken  into  numberless  pieces  ;  "  and  then  a  multitude  of  pale 
hands  were  reaching  towards  me  and  strange  gentle  faces  bending  above  me, 
and  half-wailing  and  half-caressing  voices  uttering  words  that  were  forgotten 
the  moment  they  were  spoken.  I  was  being  lifted  out  of  the  tide  of  flame,  and 
felt  my  memories,  my  hopes,  my  thoughts,  my  will,  everything  I  held  to  be 
myself,  melting  away  ;  then  I  seemed  to  rise  through  numberless  companies  of 


62  THE   SAVOY 

beings  who  were,  I  understood,  in  some  way  more  certain  than  thought ;  each 
wrapped  in  his  eternal  moment,  in  the  perfect  lifting  of  an  arm,  in  a  little 
circlet  of  rhythmical  words,  in  dreaming  with  dim  eyes  and  half-closed  eyelids  : 
And  then  I  passed  beyond  these  forms,  which  were  so  beautiful  they  had 
almost  ceased  to  be,  and,  having  endured  strange  moods  melancholy,  as 
it  seemed,  with  the  weight  of  many  worlds,  I  passed  into  that  Death  which  is 
Beauty  herself,  and  into  this  Loneliness  which  all  the  multitudes  desire  without 
ceasing.  All  things  that  had  ever  lived  seemed  to  come  and  dwell  in  my  heart 
and  I  in  theirs ;  and  I  had  never  again  known  mortality  or  tears,  had  I  not 
suddenly  fallen  from  the  certainty  of  vision  into  the  uncertainty  of  dream,  and 
become  a  drop  of  molten  gold  falling  with  immense  rapidity,  through  a  night 
elaborate  with  stars,  and  all  about  me  a  melancholy  exultant  wailing.  I  fell 
and  fell  and  fell,  and  then  the  wailing  was  but  the  wailing  of  the  wind  in  the 
chimney,  and  I  awoke  to  find  myself  leaning  upon  the  table  and  supporting  my 
head  with  my  hands.  I  saw  the  alembic  swaying  from  side  to  side  in  the  dis- 
tant corner  it  had  rolled  to,  and  Robartes  watching  me  and  waiting.  "  I  will 
go  wherever  you  will,"  I  said,  "  and  do  whatever  you  bid  me,  for  I  have  been 
with  eternal  things."  "  I  knew  you  could  not  help  yourself,"  he  replied,  "but 
must  need  answer  as  you  have  answered,  when  I  heard  the  storm  begin.  You 
must  come  to  a  great  distance,  for  we  were  commanded  to  build  our  temple 
between  the  pure  multitude  of  the  waves  and  the  impure  multitude  of  men." 


Ill 
I  did  not  speak  as  we  drove  through  the  deserted  streets,  for  my  mind 
was  curiously  empty  of  familiar  thoughts  and  experiences  :  it  seemed  to  have 
been  plucked  out  of  the  definite  world  and  cast  naked  upon  a  shoreless  sea. 
There  were  moments  when  the  vision  appeared  on  the  point  of  returning,  and 
I  would  half-remember  with  an  ecstasy  of  joy  or  sorrow,  crimes  and  heroisms, 
fortunes  and  misfortunes,  or  begin  to  contemplate  with  a  sudden  leaping  of 
the  heart,  hopes  and  terrors,  desires  and  ambitions,  alien  to  my  orderly  and 
careful  life ;  and  then  I  would  awake  shuddering  at  the  thought  that  some 
great  imponderable  being  had  swept  through  my  mind.  It  was,  indeed,  days 
before  this  feeling  passed  perfectly  away,  and  even  now  when  I  have  sought 
refuge  in  the  only  definite  faith,  I  feel  a  great  tolerance  for  those  people  with 
incoherent  personalities,  who  gather  in  the  chapels  and  meeting-places  of 
certain  obscure  .sects,  because  I  also  have  felt  fixed  habits  and  principles 
dissolving  before  a  power,  which  was  hysterica  passio,  or  sheer  madness,  if  you 


ROSA    ALCHEMIC  A  63 

will,  but  was  so  powerful  in  its  melancholy  exultation  that  I  tremble  lest  it 
wake  again  and  drive  me  from  my  new-found  peace. 

We  were  not  long  in  the  train  before  Michael  Robartes  was  asleep,  and, 
to  my  excited  mind,  his  face,  in  which  there  was  no  sign  of  all  that  had  so  shaken 
me  and  that  now  kept  me  wakeful,  was  more  like  a  mask  than  a  face.  The  fancy 
possessed  me  that  the  man  behind  it  had  dissolved  away  like  salt  in  water,  and 
that  it  laughed  and  sighed,  appealed  and  denounced,  at  the  bidding  of  beings 
greater  or  less  than  man.  "  This  is  not  Michael  Robartes  at  all :  Michael  Robartes 
is  dead  ;  dead  for  ten,  for  twenty  years,  perhaps,"  I  kept  repeating  to  myself. 
I  fell  at  last  into  a  feverish  sleep,  waking  up  from  time  to  time  when  we  rushed 
past  some  little  town,  its  slated  roofs  shining  with  wet,  or  still  lake  gleaming 
in  the  cold  morning  light.  I  had  been  too  preoccupied  to  ask  where  we  were 
going,  or  to  notice  what  tickets  Michael  Robartes  had  taken,  but  I  knew  now 
from  the  direction  of  the  sun  that  we  were  going  westward  ;  and  presently  1 
knew  also,  by  the  way  in  which  the  trees  had  grown  into  the  semblance  of 
tattered  beggars  flying  with  bent  heads  towards  the  east,  that  we  were 
approaching  the  western  coast.  Then  immediately  I  saw  the  sea  between  the 
low  hills  upon  the  right,  its  dull  gray  broken  into  white  patches  and  lines. 

When  we  left  the  train  we  had  still,  I  found,  some  way  to  go,  and  set  out 
buttoning  our  coats  about  us,  for  the  wind  was  bitter  and  violent.  Robartes 
was  silent,  seeming  anxious  to  leave  me  to  my  thoughts  ;  and  as  we  walked 
between  the  sea  and  the  rocky  side  of  a  great  promontory,  I  realized  with  a 
new  perfection  what  a  shock  had  been  given  to  all  my  habits  of  thought  and 
of  feeling,  if  indeed  some  mysterious  change  had  not  taken  place  in  the 
substance  of  my  mind,  for  the  gray  waves,  plumed  with  scudding  foam,  had 
grown  part  of  a  teeming,  fantastic  inner  life,  and  when  Robartes  pointed  to  a 
square  ancient-looking  house,  with  a  smaller  and  newer  building  under  its  lea, 
set  out  on  the  very  end  of  a  dilapidated  and  almost  deserted  pier,  and  said  it 
was  the  temple  of  the  alchemical  rose,  I  was  possessed  with  the  phantasy  that 
the  sea,  which  kept  covering  it  with  showers  of  white  foam,  was  claiming  it  as 
part  of  some  indefinite  and  passionate  life,  which  had  begun  to  war  upon  our 
orderly  and  careful  days,  and  was  about  to  plunge  the  world  into  a  night  as 
obscure  as  that  which  followed  the  downfall  of  the  classical  world.  One  part  of 
my  mind  mocked  this  phantastic  terror,  but  the  other  ;  the  part  that  still 
lay  half-plunged  in  vision  ;  listened  to  the  clash  of  unknown  armies,  and 
shuddered  at  unimaginable  fanaticisms,  that  hung  in  those  gray,  leaping  waves. 

Some  half  a  mile  to  sea,  and  plunging  its  bowsprit  under  at  every  moment, 
and  lifting  it  again  dripping  with  foam,  was  a  brown- sailed  fishing  yawl. 


64  THE   SAVOY 

"  A  time  will  come  for  these  people  also,"  said  Robartes,  pointing  towards 
the  yawl,  "  and  they  will  sacrifice  a  mullet  to  Artemis,  or  some  other  fish  to 
some  new  divinity ;  unless,  indeed,  their  own  divinities,  the  Dagda  with  his 
overflowing  cauldron,  Lu  with  his  spear  dipped  in  poppy  juice,  lest  it  rush 
forth  hot  for  battle,  Angus  with  the  three  birds  on  his  shoulder,  Bove  Derg 
and  his  red  swine-herd,  and  all  the  heroic  children  of  Dana  set  up  once  more 
their  temples  of  gray  stone.  Their  reign  has  never  ceased,  but  only  waned  in 
power  a  little,  for  the  shee  still  pass  in  every  wind,  and  dance  and  play  at 
hurley,  and  fight  their  sudden  battles  in  every  hollow  and  on  every  hill  ;  but 
they  cannot  build  their  temples  again  till  there  have  been  martyrdoms  and 
victories,  and  perhaps  even  that  long-foretold  battle  in  the  Valley  of  the 
Black  Pig." 

Keeping  close  to  the  wall  that  went  about  the  pier  on  the  seaward  side  to 
escape  the  driving  foam  and  the  wind,  which  threatened  every  moment  to  lift 
us  off  our  feet,  we  made  our  way  in  silence  to  the  door  of  the  square  building. 
Robartes  opened  it  with  a  key,  on  which  I  saw  the  rust  of  many  salt  winds, 
and  led  me  along  a  bare  passage  and  up  an  uncarpeted  stair  to  a  little  room 
surrounded  with  bookshelves.  A  meal  would  be  brought,  but  only  of  fruit,  for 
I  must  submit  to  a  tempered  fast  before  the  ceremony,  he  explained,  and  with 
it  a  book  on  the  doctrine  and  method  of  the  Order,  over  which  I  was  to  spend 
what  remained  of  the  winter  daylight.  He  then  left  me,  promising  to  return 
an  hour  before  the  ceremony.  I  began  searching  among  the  bookshelves,  and 
found  one  of  the  most  exhaustive  alchemical  libraries  I  have  ever  seen.  There 
were  the  works  of  Morienus,  who  hid  his  immortal  body  under  a  shirt  of  hair- 
cloth ;  of  Avicenna,  who  was  a  drunkard,  and  yet  controlled  numberless 
legions  of  spirits;  of  Alfarabi,  who  put  so  many  spirits  into  his  lute  that  he 
could  make  men  laugh,  or  weep,  or  fall  in  deathly  trance,  as  he  would  ;  of 
Lully,  who  transformed  himself  into  the  likeness  of  a  red  cock  ;  of  Flamell, 
who  with  his  wife  Parnella  achieved  the  elixir  many  hundreds  of  years  ago, 
and  is  fabled  to  live  still  in  Arabia  among  the  dervishes  ;  and  of  many  of  a 
less  fame.  There  were  few  mediaeval  or  modern  mystics  other  than  the 
alchemical  ;  and  because,  I  had  little  doubt,  of  the  devotion  to  one  god  of 
the  greater  number,  and  of  the  limited  sense  of  beauty,  which  Robartes  would 
hold  its  inevitable  consequence ;  but  I  did  notice  a  complete  set  of  facsimiles 
of  the  prophetical  writings  of  William  Blake,  and  probably  because  of  the 
multitude  that  thronged  his  illumination,  and  were,  as  he  delights  to  describe 
them,  "  like  the  gay  fishes  on  the  waves  when  the  moon  sucks  up  the  dew." 
I   noted  also  many  poets  and  prose-writers  of  every  age,  but  only  those  who 


ROSA    ALCHEMIC  A  65 

were  a  little  weary  of  life,  as  indeed  the  greatest  have  been  everywhere,  and 
who  have  cast  their  imagination  to  us,  as  a  something  they  needed  no  longer 
now  that  they  were  going  up  in  their  fiery  chariots. 

Presently  I  heard  a  tap  at  the  door,  and  a  woman  came  in  and  laid  a  little 
fruit  upon  the  table.  I  judged  that  she  had  once  been  handsome,  but  her 
cheeks  were  hollowed  by  what  I  would  have  held,  had  I  seen  her  anywhere  else, 
an  excitement  of  the  flesh  and  a  thirst  for  pleasure,  but  that  was,  I  doubted  not, 
an  excitement  of  the  imagination  and  a  thirst  for  beauty.  I  asked  her  some 
question  concerning  the  ceremony,  but,  getting  no  answer  except  a  shake  of 
the  head,  saw  that  I  must  await  initiation  in  silence.  When  I  had  eaten  she 
came  again,  and  having  laid  a  curious  wrought  bronze  box  on  the  table,  lighted 
the  candles,  and  took  away  the  plates  and  the  remnants.  So  soon  as  I  was 
alone,  I  turned  to  the  box,  and  found  that  the  peacocks  of  Hera  spread  out 
their  tails  over  the  sides  and  lid,  and  against  a  background,  on  which  were 
wrought  great  stars  as  though  to  affirm  that  the  heavens  were  a  part  of  their 
glory.  In  the  box  was  a  book  bound  in  vellum,  and  having  upon  the 
vellum,  and  in  very  delicate  colours  and  in  gold,  the  alchemical  rose,  with 
many  spears  thrusting  against  it,  but  in  vain,  as  was  shown  by  the  shattered 
golden  points  of  those  nearest.  The  book  was  written  upon  vellum,  and 
in  beautiful  clear  letters  interspersed  with  symbolical  pictures  and  illumi- 
nations, after  the  manner  of  the  Splendor  Solis.  The  first  chapter 
described  how  six  students,  of  whom  all  but  one,  who  was  of  Cornish 
descent,  were  Western  Irish,  Western  Scottish,  or  French,  gave  themselves 
separately  to  the  study  of  alchemy,  and  solved,  one  the  mystery  of  the  Pelican, 
another  the  mystery  of  the  green  Dragon,  another  the  mystery  of  the  Eagle, 
another  that  of  Salt  and  Mercury.  What  seemed  a  procession  of  accidents,  but 
was,  the  book  declared,  a  contrivance  of  preternatural  powers,  brought  them 
together  in  the  garden  of  an  inn  in  the  south  of  France,  and  while  they  talked 
together  the  thought  came  to  them,  that  alchemy  was  the  gradual  distillation  of 
the  contents  of  the  soul  until  they  were  ready  to  put  off  the  mortal  and  put 
on  the  immortal.  An  owl  passed  rustling  among  the  vine-leaves  overhead,  and 
then  an  old  woman  came,  leaning  upon  a  stick,  and  sitting  close  to  them  took 
up  the  thought  where  they  had  dropped  it.  Having  expounded  the  whole 
principle  of  spiritual  alchemy,  and  bid  them  found  the  Order  of  the  Alchemical 
Rose,  she  passed  from  among  them,  and  when  they  would  have  followed,  was 
nowhere  to  be  seen.  They  formed  themselves  into  an  order,  holding  their 
goods  and  making  their  researches  in  common,  and,  as  they  became  perfect  in 
the  alchemical  doctrine,  apparitions  came  and  went  among  them,  and  taught 


66  THE   SA  VO  Y 

them  more  and  more  marvellous  mysteries.  The  book  then  went  on  to 
expound  so  much  of  these  as  the  neophyte  was  permitted  to  know,  dealing  at 
the  outset  and  at  considerable  length  with  the  independent  reality  of  our 
thoughts,  which  was,  it  declared,  the  doctrine  from  which  all  true  doctrines 
sprang.  If  you  imagine,  it  said,  the  semblance  of  a  living  being,  it  is  at  once 
possessed  by  a  wandering  soul,  and  goes  hither  and  thither  working  good  or 
evil,  until  the  moment  of  its  death  has  come ;  and  gave  many  examples 
received,  it  said,  from  many  gods  :  Eros  had  taught  them  how  to  fashion 
forms  in  which  a  divine  soul  could  dwell,  and  whisper  what  they  would  into 
sleeping  ears  ;  and  Ate,  forms  from  which  demonic  beings  could  pour  madness, 
or  unquiet  dreams,  into  sleeping  blood  ;  and  Hermes,  that  if  you  powerfully 
imagined  a  hound  at  your  bedside,  it  would  keep  watch  there  until  you 
woke,  and  drive  away  all  but  the  mightiest  demons,  but  that  if  your  imagina- 
tion was  weakly,  the  hound  would  be  weakly  also,  and  the  demons  prevail, 
and  the  hound  soon  die ;  and  Aphrodite,  that  if  you  imagined  a  dove 
crowned  with  silver,  and  bade  it  flutter  over  your  bed,  its  soft  cooing 
would  make  sweet  dreams  of  immortal  love  gather  and  brood  over  your 
mortal  sleep.  And  all  divinities  alike  had  revealed  with  many  warnings  and 
lamentations  that  all  minds  are  continually  giving  birth  to  such  beings,  and 
sending  them  forth  to  work  health  or  disease,  joy  or  madness.  If  you  would 
give  forms  to  the  evil  powers,  it  went  on,  you  were  to  make  them  ugly,  thrust- 
ing out  a  lip,  with  the  thirsts  of  Life,  or  breaking  the  proportions  of  a  body 
with  the  burdens  of  Life  ;  but  the  divine  powers  would  only  appear  in  beautiful 
shapes,  which  are  but,  as  it  were,  shapes  trembling  out  of  existence,  folding 
up  into  a  timeless  ecstasy,  drifting,  with  half-shut  eyes,  into  a  sleepy  stillness. 
The  bodiless  souls  who  descended  into  these  forms  were  what  men  call  the 
moods,  and  worked  all  great  changes  in  the  world  ;  for  just  as  the  magician  or 
the  artist  could  call  them  when  he  would,  so  they  could  call  out  of  the  mind  of 
the  magician  or  the  artist,  or  if  they  were  demons,  out  of  the  mind  of  the  mad  or 
the  ignoble,  what  shape  they  would,  and  through  its  voice  and  its  gesture  pour 
themselves  out  upon  the  world.  In  this  way  all  great  events  were  accomplished : 
a  mood,  a  divinity  or  a  demon,  first  descending  like  a  faint  sigh  into  men's  minds, 
and  then  changing  their  thoughts  and  their  actions  until  hair  that  was  yellow 
had  grown  black,  or  hair  that  was  black  had  grown  yellow,  or  cities  crumbled 
away  and  new  cities  arisen  in  their  places,  and  empires  moved  their  border  as 
though  they  were  but  drifts  of  leaves.  I  remembered,  as  I  read,  that  mood 
which  Edgar  Poe  found  in  a  wine-cup,  and  how  it  passed  into  France  and 
took  possession  of  Baudelaire,  and  from  Baudelaire  passed  to  England  and  the 


ROSA    ALCHEMIC  A  67 

Pre-Raphaelites,  and  then  again  returned  to  France,  and  still  wanders  the 
world,  enlarging  its  power  as  it  goes,  awaiting  the  time  when  it  shall  be, 
perhaps,  alone,  or,  with  other  moods,  master  over  a  great  new  religion,  and  an 
awakener  of  the  fanatical  wars  that  hovered  in  the  gray  surges,  and  forget  the 
wine-cup  where  it  was  born.  The  rest  of  the  book  contained  symbols  of  form, 
and  sound,  and  colour,  and  their  attribution  to  divinities  and  demons,  so  that 
the  initiate  might  fashion  a  shape  for  any  divinity  or  any  demon,  and  be  as 
powerful  as  Avicenna  among  those  who  live  among  the  roots  of  tears  and 
laughter. 


IV 

A  couple  of  hours  after  sunset  Robartes  returned  and  told  me  that  I  would 
have  to  learn  the  steps  of  an  exceedingly  antique  pantomimic  dance,  because 
before  my  initiation  could  be  perfected  I  had  to  join  three  times  in  a  magical 
dance  ;  rhythm  being  the  circle  of  Eternity,  on  which  alone  the  transient  and 
accidental  could  be  broken,  and  the  spirit  set  free.  I  found  that  the  steps, 
which  were  simple  enough,  resembled  certain  antique  Greek  dances,  and  having 
been  a  good  dancer  in  my  youth  and  the  master  of  many  curious  Gaelic 
steps,  I  soon  had  them  in  my  memory.  He  then  robed  me  and  himself  in  a 
costume  which  suggested  by  its  shape  both  Greece  and  Egypt,  but  by  its  crimson 
colour  a  more  passionate  life  than  theirs  ;  and  having  put  into  my  hands  a 
little  chainless  censer  of  bronze,  wrought  into  the  likeness  of  a  rose,  by  some 
modern  craftsman,  he  told  me  to  open  a  small  door  opposite  to  the  door  by 
which  I  had  entered.  I  put  my  hand  to  the  handle,  but  the  moment  I  did  so 
the  fumes  of  the  incense,  helped  perhaps  by  his  mysterious  glamour,  made  me 
fall  again  into  a  dream,  in  which  I  seemed  to  be  a  mask,  lying  on  the  counter 
of  a  little  Eastern  shop.  Many  persons,  with  eyes  so  bright  and  still  that  I 
knew  them  for  more  than  human,  came  in  and  tried  me  on  their  faces,  but  at  last 
flung  me  into  a  corner  with  a  little  laughter  ;  but  all  this  passed  in  a  moment, 
for  when  I  awoke  my  hand  was  still  upon  the  handle.  I  opened  the  door,  and 
found  myself  in  a  marvellous  passage,  along  whose  sides  were  many  divinities 
wrought  in  a  mosaic  not  less  beautiful  than  the  mosaic  in  the  Baptistery  at 
Ravenna,  but  of  a  less  severe  beauty  ;  the  predominant  colour  of  each,  which 
was  surely  symbolic,  being  repeated  in  the  lamps  that  hung  from  the  ceiling, 
a  curiously-scented  lamp  before  each  divinity.  I  passed  on,  marvelling  exceed- 
ingly how  these  enthusiasts  could  have  created  all  this  beauty  in  so  remote  a 
place,  and  half  persuaded  to  believe  in  a  material  alchemy,  by  the  sight  of  so 


68  THE   SAVOY 

much  hidden  mysterious  wealth,  the  censer  filling  the  air,  as  I  passed,  with 
smoke  of  ever-changing  colour.  I  stopped  before  a  door  on  whose  bronze 
panels  were  wrought  great  waves  in  whose  shadow  were  faint  suggestions  of 
terrible  faces.  Those  beyond  it  seemed  to  have  heard  our  steps,  for  a  voice  cried  : 
"  Is  the  work  of  the  Incorruptible  Fire  at  an  end  ? "  and  immediately  Robartes 
answered  :  "  The  perfect  gold  has  come  from  the  Athanor."  The  door  swung 
open  and  we  were  in  a  great  circular  room,  and  among  men  and  women  who  were 
dancing  slowly  in  crimson  robes.  Upon  the  ceiling  was  an  immense  rose  wrought 
in  mosaic,  and  about  the  walls,  also  in  mosaic,  a  battle  of  gods  and  angels, 
the  gods  glimmering  like  rubies  and  sapphires,  and  the  angels  of  the  one  grayness, 
because,  as  Robartes  whispered,  they  had  renounced  their  divinity,  and  turned 
from  the  unfolding  of  their  separate  hearts,  out  of  love  for  a  God  of  humility 
and  sorrow.  Pillars  supported  the  roof  and  made  a  kind  of  circular  cloister, 
each  pillar  being  a  column  of  confused  shapes,  divinities,  it  seemed,  of  the  winds, 
who  rose  as  in  a  whirling  dance  of  more  than  human  vehemence,  and  playing 
upon  pipes  and  cymbals  ;  and  from  among  these  shapes  were  thrust  out  hands, 
and  in  these  hands  were  censers.  I  was  bid  place  my  censer  also  in  a  hand 
and  take  my  place  and  dance,  and  as  I  turned  from  the  pillars  towards  the 
dancers,  I  saw  that  the  floor  was  of  a  green  stone,  and  that  a  pale  Christ  on  a 
pale  cross  was  wrought  in  the  midst.  I  asked  Robartes  the  meaning  of  this, 
and  was  told  that  they  desired  "  To  trouble  His  unity  with  their  multitudinous 
feet."  The  dance  wound  in  and  out,  tracing  upon  the  floor  the  shapes  of 
petals  that  copied  the  petals  in  the  rose  overhead,  and  to  the  sound  of  hidden 
instruments,  which  were  perhaps  of  an  antique  pattern,  for  I  have  never  heard 
the  like  ;  and  every  moment  the  dance  was  more  passionate,  until  all  the 
winds  of  the  world  seemed  to  have  awakened  under  our  feet.  After  a  little  I 
had  grown  weary,  and  stood  by  a  pillar  watching  the  coming  and  going  of 
those  flame-like  figures  ;  until  gradually  I  sank  into  a  half  dream,  from  which 
I  was  awakened  by  seeing  the  petals  of  the  great  rose,  which  had  no  longer 
the  look  of  mosaic,  falling  slowly  through  the  incense  heavy  air,  and  as  they  fell 
shaping  into  the  likeness  of  living  beings  of  an  extraordinary  beauty.  Still 
faint  and  cloud-like,  they  began  to  dance,  and  as  they  danced  took  a  more  and 
more  definite  shape,  so  that  I  was  able  to  distinguish  beautiful  Grecian  faces 
and  august  Egyptian  faces,  and  now  and  again  to  name  a  divinity  by  the  staff 
in  his  hand  or  by  a  bird  fluttering  over  his  head  ;  and  soon  every  mortal  foot 
danced  by  the  white  foot  of  an  immortal ;  and  in  the  troubled  eyes  that  looked 
into  untroubled  shadowy  eyes,  I  saw  the  brightness  of  uttermost  desire,  as 
though  they  had  found  at  length,  after  unreckonable  wandering,  the  lost  love 


ROSA    ALCHEMIC  A  69 

of  their  youth.  Sometimes,  but  only  for  a  moment,  I  saw  a  faint  solitary 
figure  with  a  veiled  face,  and  carrying  a  faint  torch,  flit  among  the  dancers, 
but  like  a  dream  within  a  dream,  like  a  shadow  of  a  shadow,  and  I  knew,  by  an 
understanding  born  from  a  deeper  fountain  than  thought,  that  it  was  Eros 
himself,  and  that  his  face  was  veiled  because  no  man  or  woman  from  the 
beginning  of  the  world  has  ever  known  what  Love  is  or  looked  into  his  eyes  ; 
for  Eros  alone  of  divinities  is  altogether  a  spirit  ;  and  hides  in  passions  not  of 
his  essence,  if  he  would  commune  with  a  mortal  heart.  So  that  if  a  man  love 
nobly  he  knows  Love  through  infinite  pity,  unspeakable  trust,  unending 
sympathy  ;  and  if  ignobly,  through  vehement  jealousy,  sudden  hatred,  and 
unappeasable  desire;  but  unveiled  Love  he  never  knows.  While  I  thought  these 
things,  a  voice  cried  to  me  from  the  crimson  figures,  "  Into  the  dance,  there  is 
none  that  can  be  spared  out  of  the  dance  ;  into  the  dance,  into  the  dance,  that 
the  gods  may  make  them  bodies  out  of  the  substance  of  our  hearts ; "  and 
before  I  could  answer,  a  mysterious  wave  of  passion,  that  seemed  like  the  soul 
of  the  dance  moving  within  our  souls,  took  hold  of  me  and  I  was  swept, 
neither  consenting  nor  refusing,  into  the  midst.  I  was  dancing  with  an 
immortal  august  woman,  who  had  black  lilies  in  her  hair,  and  her  dreamy 
gesture  seemed  laden  with  a  wisdom  more  profound  than  the  darkness  that  is 
between  star  and  star,  and  with  a  love  like  the  love  that  breathed  upon  the 
waters ;  and  as  we  danced  on  and  on,  the  incense  drifted  over  us  and  round 
us,  covering  us  away  as  in  the  heart  of  the  world,  and  ages  seemed  to  pass,  and 
tempests  to  awake  and  perish  in  the  folds  of  our  robes  and  in  her  heavy  hair. 

Suddenly  I  remembered  that  her  eyelids  had  never  quivered  and  that  her 
lilies  had  not  dropped  a  black  petal,  or  shaken  from  their  places,  and  under- 
stood with  a  great  horror  that  I  danced  with  one  who  was  more  or  less  than 
human,  and  who  was  drinking  up  my  soul  as  an  ox  drinks  up  a  wayside  pool, 
and  I  fell,  and  darkness  passed  over  me. 


V 
When  I  awoke  I  was  lying  on  a  roughly  painted  floor,  and  on  the  ceiling, 
which  was  at  no  great  distance,  was  a  roughly  painted  rose,  and  about  me  on 
the  wall  a  half-finished  painting.  The  pillars  and  the  censers  had  gone ; 
and  about  me,  wrapped  in  disordered  robes,  lay  a  score  of  sleepers,  their 
upturned  faces  looking  to  my  imagination  like  hollow  masks  ;  and  a  chill 
dawn  was  shining  down  upon  them,  from  a  long  window  I  had  not  noticed 
before  ;  and  outside  the  sea  roared  angrily.     I  saw  Michael  Robartes  lying  at 

E 


70  THE   SAVOY 

a  little  distance,  and  beside  him  an  overset  bowl  of  wrought  bronze  which 
looked  as  though  it  had  once  held  incense. 

I  had  no  thought  but  to  get  away,  and  to  forget  all.  The  door  of  the 
room  opened  with  a  push,  and  hurrying  along  the  passage,  where  the  bare 
boards  clattered  under  my  feet,  I  found  the  front  door  by  the  light  of  a  single 
oil  lamp,  that  hung  from  the  ceiling,  mingling  its  yellow  flame  with  the 
morning  light.  I  hurried  along  the  pier,  between  brown  nets  and  old  spars, 
the  spray  driving  in  my  face ;  but  had  not  gone  far  before  I  met  a  group  of 
stonemasons  going  to  their  morning  work.  They  went  a  few  yards  past  me 
and  then  one  of  them,  an  old  man  with  iron-gray  hair,  turned  and  cried : 
"  Idolater,  idolater,  go  back  to  your  she  dhoules,  go  down  to  hell  with 
your  she  dhoules  !  "  I  scarcely  heard  them,  for  other  voices  were  in  my  ears. 
Voices  uttering  reproaches  that  were  forgotten  the  moment  they  were  spoken, 
as  a  dream  is  forgotten  on  waking. 

From  that  day  I  have  never  failed  to  carry  the  rosary  about  my  neck,  and 
whenever  the  indefinite  world,  which  has  but  half  lost  its  empire  over  my 
heart  and  my  intellect,  though  my  conscience  and  my  soul  are  free,  is  about  to 
claim  a  new  mastery,  I  press  the  cross  to  my  heart  and  say  :  "  He  whose  name 
is  legion  is  at  our  doors,  deceiving  our  intellects  with  subtlety  and  flattering 
our  hearts  with  beauty,  so  that  we  have  no  trust  but  in  Thee."  And  then  the 
war  that  wages  within  me  at  all  other  times  is  still  and  I  am  at  peace. 

W.  B.  Yeats. 


Three  Visions 

by 

William  T.  Horton 


They  have  sharpened  their  tongues  like  a  serpent ;  adders'  poison  is  under 
their  lips."— Psalm  cxl.  3. 


"  Giving  heed  to  seducing  spirits." — I  Timothy,  iv.  i. 


1 

I  '111     P^l 

\ 

AAAA> 

'vgp 

^kv     ▼■.*''/') 

rJ! 

if  f    r^^^st'-/ 

rfafl 

/     y%  '  P\\Yr^! 

V5/J  /  /         rrCE?5^£=3sM^\V*?iJ 

\1    /.i-*                >»^?\  \  I   <>7          VVm 

w   l^L     ^     "^                   * 

mm^ 

^jyp 

iP^V  / 

A 

'  Strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto  lite,  and  few 
there  be  that  find  it." — Matthew,  vii.  14. 


FRIEDRICH    NIETZSCHE 


i 

OR  some  years  the  name  of  Friedrich  Nietzsche  has  been  the 
war-cry  of  opposing  factions  in  Germany.  It  is  not  easy  to 
take  up  a  German  periodical  without  finding  some  trace  of 
the  passionate  admiration  or  denunciation  which  this  man 
has  called  forth.  If  we  turn  to  Scandinavia  or  to  France, 
whither  his  fame  and  his  work  are  now  also  penetrating,  we 
find  that  the  same  results  have  followed.  And  we  may  expect  a  similar  out- 
burst in  England  now  that  a  complete  translation  of  his  works  has  begun  to 
appear.  At  present,  however,  I  know  of  no  attempt  to  deal  with  Nietzsche 
from  the  British  point  of  view,  and  that  is  my  excuse  for  trying  to  define 
his  personality  and  influence.  I  do  not  come  forward  as  the  champion 
either  of  Nietzschianism  or  Anti-Nietzschianism.  It  appears  to  me  that  any 
human  individuality  that  has  strongly  aroused  the  love  and  hatred  of  men 
must  be  far  too  complex  for  absolute  condemnation,  or  absolute  approval. 
Apart  from  praise  or  blame,  which  seem  here  alike  impertinent,  Nietzsche  is 
without  doubt  an  extraordinarily  interesting  figure.  He  is  the  modern  incar- 
nation of  that  image  of  intellectual  pride  which  Marlowe  created  in  Faustus. 
A  man  who  has  certainly  stood  at  the  finest  summit  of  modern  culture,  who 
has  thence  made  the  most  determined  effort  ever  made  to  destroy  modern 
morals,  and  who  now  leads  a  life  as  near  to  death  as  any  life  outside  the  grave 
can  be,  must  needs  be  a  tragic  figure.  It  is  a  figure  full  of  significance,  for  it 
represents,  perhaps,  the  greatest  spiritual  force  which  has  appeared  since 
Goethe,  full  of  interest  also  to  the  psychologist,  and  surely  not  without  its 
pathos,  perhaps  its  horror,  for  the  man  in  the  street. 


It  is  only  within  the  last  year  that  it  has  become  possible  to  study 
Nietzsche's  life-history.  For  a  considerable  period  his  early  home  at 
Naumberg  has  been  the  receptacle  of  Nietzsche  archives  of  all  kinds,  and  now 
his  sister,  Elizabeth  Forster- Nietzsche,  has  utilized  this  copious  material  in  the 
production  of  an  authoritative  biography.     This  sister  is  herself  a  remarkable 


So  THE   SAVOY 

person  ;  for  many  years  she  lived  in  close  association  with  her  brother  so  that 
she  was  supposed,  though  without  reason,  to  have  exerted  an  influence  over 
his  thought ;  then  she  married  Dr.  Forster,  the  founder  of  the  Xew  Germany 
colony  in  Paraguay ;  on  his  death  she  returned  home  to  write  the  history  of 
the  colony,  and  has  since  devoted  herself  to  the  care  of  her  brother  and 
his  fame.  Only  the  first  volume  of  the  Leben  Nietzsclie's  has  yet  appeared, 
but  it  enables  us  to  trace  his  development  to  adult  life  and  throws  light  on  his 
whole  career. 

Nietzsche  belonged  to  a  noble  Polish  family  called  Nietzky,  who  on 
account  of  strong  Protestant  convictions  abandoned  their  country  and  their 
title  during  the  eighteenth  century  and  settled  in  Germany.  Notwithstanding 
the  large  amount  of  German  blood  in  his  veins,  he  always  regarded  himself  as 
essentially  a  Pole.  The  Poles  seemed  to  him  the  best  endowed  and  most 
knightly  of  Slavonic  peoples,  and  he  once  remarked  that  it  was  only  by  virtue 
of  a  strong  mixture  of  Slavonic  blood  that  the  Germans  entered  the  ranks  of 
gifted  nations.  He  termed  the  Polish  Chopin  the  deliverer  of  music  from 
German  heaviness  and  stupidity,  and  when  he  speaks  of  another  Pole, 
Copernicus,  who  reversed  the  judgment  of  the  whole  world,  one  may  divine  a 
reference  to  what  in  later  years  Nietzsche  regarded  as  his  own  mission.  In 
adult  life  Nietzsche's  keen  and  strongly  marked  features  were  distinctly 
Polish,  and  when  abroad  he  was  frequently  greeted  by  Poles  as  a  fellow- 
countryman  ;  at  Sorrento,  where  he  once  spent  a  winter,  the  country  people 
called  him  II  Polacco. 

Like  Emerson  (to  whose  writings  he  was  strongly  attracted  throughout 
life)  and  many  another  strenuous  philosophic  revolutionary,  Nietzsche  came 
of  a  long  race  of  Christian  ministers.  On  both  sides  his  ancestors  were 
preachers,  and  from  first  to  last  the  preacher's  fervour  was  in  his  own 
blood.  The  eldest  of  three  children  (of  whom  one  died  in  infancy),  Friedrich 
Nietzsche  was  born  in  1844  at  Rocken,  near  Liitzen,  in  Saxony.  His  father 
— who  shortly  after  his  son's  birth  fell  down  the  parsonage  steps,  injuring 
his  head  so  severely  that  he  died  within  twelve  months — is  described  as  a 
man  of  noble  and  poetic  nature,  with  a  special  talent  for  music,  inherited 
by  his  son  ;  he  belonged  to  a  large  and  very  healthy  family  who  mostly 
lived  to  extreme  old  age,  preserving  their  mental  and  physical  vigour  to 
the  last  The  Nietzsches  were  a  proud,  sincere  folk,  very  clannish,  looking 
askance  at  all  who  were  not  Nietzsches.  Nietzsche's  mother,  said  to  be  a 
charming  woman  and  possessed  of  much  physical  vigour,  was  again  a  clergy- 
man's daughter.     The  Oehler  family,  to  which  she  belonged,  was  also  very 


FRIED  RICH  NIETZSCHE  81 

large,  very  health)-,  and  very  long-lived  ;  she  was  only  eighteen  at  her  son's 
birth,  and  is  still  alive  to  care  for  him  in  his  complete  mental  decay.  I  note 
these  facts,  which  are  given  with  much  precision  and  detail  in  the  biography, 
because  they  certainly  help  us  to  understand  Nietzsche.  It  is  evident  that  he 
is  no  frail  hectic  flame  of  a  degenerating  race.  There  seems  to  be  no  trace  of 
insanity  or  nervous  disorder  at  any  point  in  the  family  history,  as  far  back  as 
it  is  possible  to  go.  On  the  contrary,  he  belonged  to  extremely  vigorous  stocks, 
possessing  unusual  moral  and  physical  force,  people  of  "  character."  A  similar 
condition  of  things  is  not  seldom  found  in  the  history  of  genius.  In  such  a  case 
the  machine  is,  as  it  were,  too  highly  charged  with  inherited  energy,  and  works 
at  a  pressure  which  ultimately  brings  it  to  perdition.  All  genius  must  work 
without  rest,  it  cannot  do  otherwise  ;  only  the  most  happily  constituted 
genius  works  without  haste. 

The  sister's  account  of  the  children's  early  life  is  a  very  charming  part  of 
this  record,  and  one  which  in  the  nature  of  things  rarely  finds  place  in  a 
biography.  She  describes  her  first  memories  of  the  boy's  pretty  face,  his  long 
fair  hair,  and  large,  dark,  serious  eyes.  He  could  not  speak  until  he  was  nearly 
three  years  old,  but  at  four  he  began  to  read  and  write.  He  was  a  quiet,  rather 
obstinate  child,  with  fits  of  passion  which  he  learnt  to  control  at  a  very  early 
age  ;  his  self-control  became  so  great  that,  as  a  boy,  on  more  than  one  occasion 
he  deliberately  burnt  his  hand,  to  show  that  Mucius  Scaevola's  act  was  but  a 
trifling  matter. 

The  widowed  mother  went  with  her  children  to  settle  at  Naumberg  on 
the  Saale  with  her  husband's  mother,  a  woman  of  fine  character  with  views  of 
her  own,  one  of  which  was  that  children  of  all  classes  should  first  be  brought 
up  together.  Little  Fritz  was  therefore  sent  to  the  town  school,  but  the 
experiment  was  not  altogether  successful.  He  was  a  serious  child,  fond  of 
solitude,  and  was  called  "  the  little  parson  "  by  his  comrades.  "  The  funda- 
mental note  of  his  disposition,"  writes  a  schoolfellow  in  after  life,  "  was  a  certain 
melancholy  which  expressed  itself  in  his  whole  being."  He  avoided  his  fellows 
and  sought  beautiful  scenery,  as  he  continued  to  do  throughout  life.  At  the 
same  time  he  was  a  well-developed,  vigorous  boy,  who  loved  games  of  various 
kinds,  especially  those  of  his  own  invention.  But  although  the  children  lived 
to  the  full  the  fantastic  life  of  childhood,  the  sister  regretfully  confesses  that 
they  remained  models  of  propriety.  Fritz  was  "  a  very  pious  child  ;  he  thought 
much  about  religious  matters  and  was  always  concerned  to  put  his  thoughts 
into  practice."  It  is  curious  that,  notwithstanding  his  instinctive  sympathy 
with  the  Greek  spirit  and  his  philological  aptitudes,  he  found  Greek  specially 


82  THE   SAVOY 

difficult  to  learn.  At  the  age  of  ten  appeared  his  taste  for  verse-making,  and 
also  for  music,  and  he  soon  began  to  show  that  inherited  gift  for  improvisation 
by  which  he  was  always  able  to  hold  his  audience  spell-bound,  Even  as  a 
boy  the  future  moralist  made  a  deep  impression  on  those  who  knew  him,  and 
he  even  reminded  one  person  of  the  youthful  Jesus  in  the  Temple.  "  We 
Nietzsches  hate  lies,"  an  aunt  was  accustomed  to  say ;  in  Friedrich  sincerity 
was  a  very  deep-rooted  trait,  and  he  exercised  an  involuntary  educational 
influence  on  those  who  came  near  him. 

In  1858  a  place  was  found  for  him  at  Pforta,  a  remarkable  school  of  almost 
military  discipline.  Here  many  of  the  lines  of  his  future  activity  were  definitely 
laid  down.  At  an  even  earlier  date,  excited  by  the  influence  of  Humboldt,  he 
had  been  fascinated  by  the  ideal  of  universal  culture,  and  at  Pforta  his  intel- 
lectual energies  began  to  expand.  Here  also,  in  1859,  when  a  pianoforte 
edition  of  "  Tristan  "  was  first  published,  Nietzsche  became  an  enthusiastic 
Wagnerian,  and  "Tristan"  always  remained  for  him  music  par  excellence ;  he 
was  also  attracted  to  Berlioz.  Here,  too,  he  began  those  philological  studies 
which  led  some  years  later  to  a  professorship.  He  turned  to  philology,  how- 
ever, as  he  himself  recognized,  because  of  the  need  he  felt  to  anchor  himself  to 
some  cool  logical  study  which  would  not  grip  his  heart  like  the  restless  and 
exciting  artistic  instincts  which  had  hitherto  chiefly  moved  him.  During  the 
latter  part  of  his  stay  at  this  very  strenuous  educational  establishment  young 
Nietzsche  was  a  less  brilliant  pupil  than  during  the  earlier  part  His  own 
individuality  was  silently  growing  beneath  the  disciplinary  pressure  which 
would  have  dwarfed  a  less  vigorous  individuality.  His  philosophic  aptitudes 
began  to  develop  and  take  form  ;  he  wished  also  to  devote  himself  to  music  ; 
and  he  pined  at  the  confinement,  longing  for  the  forest  and  the  woodman's 
axe.  It  was  the  beginning  of  a  long  struggle  between  the  impulses  of  his  own 
self-centred  nature  and  the  duties  imposed  from  without,  by  the  school,  the 
university,  and,  later,  his  professorship  ;  he  always  strove  to  broaden  and 
deepen  these  duties  to  the  scope  of  his  own  nature,  but  the  struggle  remained. 
It  was  the  immediate  result  of  this  double  strain  that,  during  1862,  strong  and 
healthy  as  the  youth  appeared,  he  began  to  suffer  from  headaches  and  eye- 
troubles,  cured  by  temporary  removal  from  the  school.  He  remained  extremely 
short-sighted,  and  it  was  only  by  an  absurd  error  in  the  routine  examination 
that  in  later  years  he  was  passed  for  military  service  in  the  artillery. 

In  the  following  year,  1863,  Nietzsche  met,  and  was  for  a  while  attracted 
by,  a  schoolfellow's  sister,  an  ethereal  little  Berlin  girl,  who  appealed  to  "  the 
large,  broad-shouldered,  shy,  rather  solemn  and  stiff  youth."     To  this  early 


FRIED  RICH  NIETZSCHE  83 

experience,  which  never  went  beyond  poetic  schwdrmerei,  his  sister  is  inclined 
to  trace  the  origin  of  Nietzsche's  view  of  women  as  very  fragile,  tender  little 
buds.  The  experience  is  also  interesting  because  it  appears  to  stand  alone  in 
his  life.  We  strike  here  on  an  organic  abnormality  in  this  congenital 
philosopher.  Nietzsche's  attitude  was  not  the  crude  misogyny  of  Schopenhauer, 
who  knew  women  chiefly  as  women  of  the  streets.  Nietzsche  knew  many  of 
the  finest  women  of  his  time,  and  he  sometimes  speaks  with  insight  and 
sympathy  of  the  world  as  it  appears  to  women  ;  but  there  was  clearly  nothing 
in  him  to  answer  to  any  appeal  to  passion,  and  his  attitude  is  well  summed  up 
in  an  aphorism  of  his  own  "  Zarathustra  "  :  "  It  is  better  to  fall  into  the  hands 
of  a  murderer  than  into  the  dreams  of  an  ardent  woman."  "  All  his  life  long," 
his  sister  writes,  "  my  brother  remained  completely  apart  from  either  great 
passion  or  vulgar  love.  His  whole  passion  lay  in  the  world  of  knowledge ; 
only  very  temperate  emotions  remained  over  for  anything  else.  In  later  life 
he  was  grieved  that  he  had  never  attained  to  amour  passion,  and  that  every 
inclination  to  a  feminine  personality  quickly  changed  to  a  tender  friendship, 
however  fascinatingly  pretty  the  fair  one  might  be."  He  would  expend  much 
sympathy  on  unhappy  lovers,  yet  he  would  shake  his  head,  saying  to  himself 
or  others  :  "  And  all  that  over  a  little  girl  ! " 

Young  Nietzsche  left  Pforta,  in  1863,  with  the  most  various  and  incompatible 
scientific  tastes  and  interests  (always  excepting  in  mathematics,  for  which  he 
never  possessed  any  aptitude),  but,  as  he  himself  remarked,  none  that  would 
fit  him  for  any  career.  One  point  in  regard  to  the  termination  of  his  school- 
life  is  noteworthy :  he  chose  Theognis  as  the  subject  of  his  valedictory 
dissertation.  His  meditations  on  this  moralist  and  aristocrat,  so  contemptuous 
of  popular  rule,  may  have  served  as  the  foundation  of  some  of  his  own  later 
views  on  Greek  culture.  In  1864  he  became  a  student  at  Bonn,  and  the  year 
that  followed  was  of  special  import  in  his  inner  development ;  he  finally  threw 
off  the  beliefs  of  his  early  youth  ;  he  discovered  his  keen  critical  faculty  ;  and 
his  self-contained  independence  became  a  visible  mark  of  his  character,  though 
always  disguised  by  his  amiable  and  courteous  manners.  At  Bonn  his  life 
seems  to  have  been  fairly  happy,  though  he  was  by  no  means  a  typical 
German  student.  He  spent  much  money,  but  it  was  chiefly  on  his  artistic 
tastes — music  and  the  theatre — or  on  little  tours.  No  one  could  spend  less 
on  eating  and  drinking  ;  like  Goethe  and  like  Heine,  he  had  no  love  of 
smoking  and  drinking,  and  he  was  repelled  by  the  thick,  beery  good-humour 
of  the  German  student.  People  who  drink  beer  and  smoke  pipes  every 
evening,  he  always  held,  were  incapable  of  understanding  his  philosophy  ;  for 


84  THE   SAVOY 

they  could  not  possibly  possess  the  clarity  of  mind  needed  to  grasp  any 
delicate  or  complex  intellectual  problem.  He  returned  home  from  Bonn  "a 
picture  of  health  and  strength,  broad-shouldered,  brown,  with  rather  fair  thick 
hair,  and  exactly  the  same  height  as  Goethe  ; "  and  then  went  to  continue  his 
studies  at  Leipzig. 

Notwithstanding  the  youth's  efforts  to  subdue  his  emotional  and  aesthetic 
restlessness  by  cool  and  hard  work,  he  was  clearly  tortured  by  the  effort  to 
find  a  philosophic  home  for  himself  in  the  world.  This  effort  absorbed  him 
all  day  long,  frequently  nearly  all  the  night.  At  this  time  he  chanced  to  take 
up  on  a  bookstall  a  totally  unknown  work,  entitled  "  Der  Welt  als  Wille  und 
Vorstellung  ;  "  in  obedience  to  an  unusual  impulse  he  bought  the  book  without 
consideration,  and  from  that  moment  began  an  acquaintance  with  Schopen- 
hauer which  for  many  years  exerted  a  deep  influence  on  his  life.  At  that  time, 
probably,  he  could  have  had  no  better  guide  into  paths  of  peace  ;  but  even  as 
a  student  he  was  a  keen  critic  of  Schopenhauer's  system,  valuing  him  chiefly 
as,  in  opposition  to  Kant,  "  the  philosopher  of  a  re-awakened  classical  period, 
a  Germanized  Hellenism."  Schumann's  music  and  long  solitary  walks  aided  in 
the  work  of  recuperation.  A  year  or  two  later  Nietzsche  met  the  other  great 
god  who  shared  with  Schopenhauer  his  early  worship.  "  I  cannot  bring  my 
heart  to  any  degree  of  critical  coolness  before  this  music,"  he  wrote,  in  1868, 
after  listening  to  the  overture  to  the  "Meistersingers"  ;  "every  fibre  and  nerve 
in  me  thrills  ;  it  is  a  long  time  since  I  have  been  so  carried  away."  I  quote 
these  words,  for  we  shall,  I  think,  find  later  that  they  have  their  significance. 
A  few  weeks  afterwards  he  was  invited  to  meet  the  master,  and  thus  began  a 
relationship  that  for  Nietzsche  was  fateful. 

Meanwhile  his  philological  studies  were  bringing  him  distinction.  A 
lecture  on  Theognis  was  pronounced  by  Ritschl  to  be  the  best  work  by  a 
student  of  Nietzsche's  standing  that  he  had  ever  met  with.  Then  followed 
investigations  into  the  sources  of  Suidas,  a  lengthy  examination  De  fontibus 
Diogenis  Laertii,  and  palaeographic  studies  in  connection  with  Terence,  Statius, 
and  Orosius.  He  was  now  also  consciously  perfecting  his  German  style, 
treating  language,  he  remarks,  as  a  musical  instrument  on  which  one  must  be 
able  to  improvise,  as  well  as  play  what  is  merely  learnt  by  heart.  In  1869, 
when  only  in  his  twenty-sixth  year,  and  before  he  had  taken  his  doctor's 
degree,  he  accepted  the  chair  of  classical  philology  at  Basel.  He  was  certainly, 
as  he  himself  said,  not  a  born  philologist.  He  had  devoted  himself  to 
philology — I  wish  to  insist  on  this  significant  point — as  a  sedative  and 
tonic  to  his  restless  energy  ;  in  this  he  was  doubtless  wise,  though  his  sister 


FRIED  RICH  XIRTZSCHE  85 

seems  to  suggest  that  he  thereby  increased  his  mental  strain.  But  he  had  no 
real  vocation  for  philology,  and  it  is  curious  that  when  the  Basel  chair  was 
offered  to  him  he  was  proposing  to  himself  to  throw  aside  philology  for 
chemistry.  Philologists,  he  declares  again  and  again,  are  but  factory  hands  in 
the  service  of  science.  At  the  best  philology  is  a  waste  of  acuteness,  since  it 
merely  enables  us  to  state  facts  which  the  study  of  the  present  would  teach  us 
much  more  swiftly  and  surely.  Thus  it  was  that  he  instinctively  broadened 
and  deepened  ever}-  philological  question  he  took  up,  making  it  a  channel  for 
philosophy  and  morals.  With  his  specifically  philological  work  we  are  not 
further  concerned. 

I  have  been  careful  to  present  the  main  facts  in  Nietzsche's  early  develop- 
ment because  they  seem  to  me  to  throw  light  on  the  whole  of  his  later 
development.  So  far  he  had  published  nothing  except  in  philological  journals. 
In  1872,  after  he  had  settled  at  Basel,1  appeared  his  first  work,  an  essay 
entitled  "  Die  Geburt  der  Tragodie  aus  dem  Geiste  der  Musik,"  dedicated  to 
Wagner.  The  conception  of  this  essay  was  academic,  but  in  Nietzsche's  hands 
the  origin  of  tragedy  became  merely  the  text  for  an  exposition  of  his  own 
philosophy  of  art  at  this  period.  He  traces  two  art  impulses  in  ancient 
Greece  :  one,  starting  in  the  phenomena  of  dreaming,  which  he  associates  with 
Apollo  ;  the  other,  starting  in  the  phenomena  of  intoxication,  associated  with 
Dionysos,  and  through  singing,  music  and  dithyramb  leading  up  to  the  lyric. 
The  union  of  these,  which  both  imply  a  pessimistic  view  of  life,  produced  folk- 
song and  finally  tragedy,  which  is  thus  the  outcome  of  Dionysiac  music 
fertilized  by  Apollonian  imagery.  Socrates  the  optimist,  with  his  views 
concerning  virtue  as  knowledge,  vice  as  ignorance,  and  his  identification  of 
virtue  with  happiness,  led  to  the  decay  of  tragedy  and  the  triumph  of 
Alexandrian  culture,  in  the  net  of  which  the  whole  modern  world  is  still  held. 
Now,  however,  German  music  is  producing  a  new  birth  of  tragedy  through 
Wagner,  who  has  again  united  music  and  myth,  and  inaugurated  an  era  of 
German  art  culture.  This  remarkable  essay  produced  considerable  con- 
troversy. It  is  characteristic  of  Nietzsche's  first  period,  as  we  may  call  all  he 
wrote  before  1876,  in  its  insistence  on  the  all-importance  of  aesthetic  as 
opposed  to  intellectual  culture  ;  and  it  is  characteristic  of  his  whole  work  in  its 
grip  of  the  connection  between  the  problems  and  solutions  of  Hellenic  times 
and  the  problems  and  solutions  of  the  modern  world.     For  Nietzsche  the 

With  the  migration  to  Basel  the  "  Leben  Nietzsche's"  at  present  ends;  and  I  am, 
therefore,  forced  to  rely  on  more  fragmentary  data  in  outlining  the  following  years  of 
Nietzsche's  life. 


86  THE  SAVOY 

Greek  world  was  not  the  model  of  beautiful  mediocrity  imagined  by  Winckel- 
mann  and  Goethe,  nor  did  it  date  from  the  era  of  rhetorical  idealism  in- 
augurated by  Plato.  The  real  Hellenic  world  came  earlier,  and  the  true 
Hellenes  were  sturdy  realists  enamoured  of  life,  reverencing  all  its  manifesta- 
tions and  returns,  and  holding  in  highest  honour  that  sexual  symbol  of 
life  which  Christianity,  with  its  denial  of  life,  despises.  Plato  Nietzsche 
hated  ;  he  had  wandered  from  all  the  fundamental  instincts  of  the  Hellene. 
His  childish  dialectics  can  only  appeal,  Nietzsche  said,  to  those  who  are  ignor- 
ant of  the  French  masters  like  Fontenelle.  The  best  cure  for  Plato,  he  held, 
is  Thucydides,the  last  of  the  old  Hellenes  who  were  brave  in  the  face  of  reality ; 
Plato  fled  from  reality  into  the  ideal  and  was  a  Christian  before  his  time. 

Between  1873  and  1876  Nietzsche  wrote  four  essays — on  David  Strauss, 
the  Use  and  Abuse  of  History  in  relation  to  Life,  Schopenhauer  as  an 
Educator,  and  Richard  Wagner — which  were  collectively  published  as 
"  Unzeitgemasse  Betrachtungen."  If  in  his  first  essay  Nietzsche  may  seem  to 
appear  as  the  champion  of  the  modern  Teuton,  it  was  for  the  first  and  last 
time.  He  made  ample  amends  in  the  essay  on  Strauss.  That  essay  was 
written  soon  after  the  great  war,  amid  the  resulting  outburst  of  flamboyant 
patriotism  and  the  widely-expressed  conviction  that  the  war  was  a  victory 
of  "  German  culture."  Fresh  from  the  world  of  Greece,  Nietzsche  pours 
contempt  on  that  assumption.  Culture,  he  says,  is,  above  all,  unity  of  artistic 
style  in  every  expression  of  a  people's  life.  The  exuberance  of  knowledge 
in  which  a  German  glories  is  neither  a  necessary  means  of  culture  nor  a  sign 
of  it,  being,  indeed,  more  allied  to  the  opposite  of  culture — to  barbarism.  It 
is  in  this  barbarism  that  the  modern  German  lives,  that  is  to  say,  in  a  chaotic 
mixture  of  all  styles.  Look  at  his  clothing,  Nietzsche  continues,  his  houses, 
his  streets,  all  his  manners  and  customs.  They  are  a  turmoil  of  all  styles  in 
which  he  peacefully  lives  and  moves.  Such  culture  is  really  a  phlegmatic 
absence  of  all  sense  of  culture.  Largely,  also,  it  is  merely  a  bad  imitation 
of  the  real  and  productive  culture  of  France  which  it  is  supposed  to  have 
conquered  in  1870.  Let  there  be  no  chatter,  he  concludes,  about  the  triumph 
of  German  culture,  for  at  present  no  real  German  culture  exists.  The  heroic 
figures  of  the  German  past  were  not  "  classics,"  as  some  imagine  ;  they  were 
seekers  after  a  genuine  German  culture,  and  so  regarded  themselves.  The 
would-be  children  of  culture  in  Germany  to-day  are  Philistines  without 
knowing  it,  and  the  only  unity  they  have  achieved  is  a  methodical  barbarism. 
Nietzsche  attacks  Strauss  by  no  means  as  a  theologian,  but  as  a  typical 
culture-Philistine.     He  was  moved  to  this  by  the  recent  publication  of  "  Der 


FRIED  RICH  NIETZSCHE  87 

Alte  und  der  Neue  Glaubc."  I  can  well  understand  the  emotions  with  which 
that  book  filled  him,  for  I,  too,  read  it  soon  after  its  publication,  and  can  well 
recall  the  painful  impression  made  on  me  by  its  homely  pedestrianism,  the 
dull  lack  of  imagination  of  the  man  who  could  only  compare  the  world  to  a 
piece  of  machinery,  an  engine  that  creaks  in  the  working,  a  sort  of  vast 
Lancashire  mill  in  which  we  must  spend  every  moment  in  feverish  labour, 
and  for  our  trouble  perhaps  be  caught  between  the  wheels  and  cogs.  But  I 
was  young,  and  my  youthful  idealism,  eager  for  some  vital  and  passionate 
picture  of  the  world,  inevitably  revolted  against  so  tawdry  and  mechanical  a 
conception.  Nietzsche,  then  and  ever,  failed  to  perceive  that  there  is  room, 
after  all,  for  the  modest  sturdy  bourgeois  labourer  who,  at  the  end  of  a  hard 
life  in  the  service  of  truth,  sits  down  to  enjoy  his  brown  beer  and  Haydn's 
quartettes,  and  to  repeat  his  homely  confession  of  faith  in  the  world  as  he 
sees  it.  Nietzsche  failed  to  realize  that  Strauss's  limitations  were  essential  to 
the  work  he  had  to  do,  and  that  he  remained  a  not  unworthy  follower  of 
those  German  heroes  who  were  not  "  classics,"  but  honest  seekers  after  the 
highest  they  knew.  In  this  hypertrophied  repulsion  for  the  everyday  bourgeois 
work  of  the  intellectual  world  we  touch  on  a  defect  in  Nietzsche's  temperament 
which  we  must  regard  as  congenital,  and  which  wrought  in  him  at  last  to 
wildest  issues. 

In  another  of  these  essays,  "Schopenhauer  als  Erzieher,"  Nietzsche  sets 
forth  his  opinions  concerning  his  early  master  in  philosophy.  It  is  a 
significant  indication  of  the  qualities  that  attracted  him  to  Schopenhauer  that 
he  compares  him  to  Montaigne,  thus  at  once  revealing  his  own  fundamental 
optimism,  and  the  admiration  which  he  then  and  always  felt  for  the  great 
French  masters  of  wisdom.  He  regards  Schopenhauer  as  the  leader  from 
Kant's  caves  of  critical  scepticism  to  the  open  sky  with  its  consoling  stars. 
Schopenhauer  saw  the  world  as  a  whole,  and  was  not  befooled  by  the  analysis 
of  the  colours  and  canvas  wherewith  the  picture  is  painted.  Kant,  in  spite  of 
the  impulse  of  his  genius,  never  became  a  philosopher.  "  If  anyone  thinks  I 
am  thus  doing  Kant  an  injustice,  he  cannot  know  what  a  philosopher  is,  i&., 
not  merely  a  great  thinker  but  also  a  real  man  ; "  and  he  goes  on  to  explain 
that  the  mere  scholar  who  is  accustomed  to  let  opinions,  ideas,  and  things  in 
books  always  intervene  between  him  and  facts,  will  never  see  facts,  and  will 
never  be  a  fact  to  himself;  whereas  the  philosopher  must  regard  himself  as 
the  symbol  and  abbreviation  of  all  the  facts  of  the  world.  It  remained 
always  an  axiom  with  Nietzsche  that  the  philosopher  must  first  of  all  be  a 
"real  nun." 


88  THE   SAVOY 

In  this  essay  also  Nietzsche  first  expressed  his  conception  of  the  value  of 
individuality.     Shakespeare  had  asked  : 

"  Which  can  say  more 
Than  this  rich  praise,  that  you  alone  are  you?" 

But  Shakespeare  was  only  addressing  a  single  beloved  friend.  Nietzsche 
addresses  the  same  thought  to  the  common  "  you."  "  At  bottom  every  man 
well  knows  that  he  can  only  live  one  single  life  in  the  world,  and  that  never 
again  will  so  strange  a  chance  shake  together  into  unity  such  singularly  varied 
elements  as  he  holds :  he  knows  that,  but  he  hides  it  like  a  bad  conscience." 
This  was  a  sane  and  democratic  individualism  ;  in  later  years,  as  we  shall  see, 
it  assumed  stranger  shapes. 

The  essay  on  Wagner  starts  from  the  standpoint  reached  in  the  previous 
essays.  There  is  a  deep  analogy  for  those  to  whom  distance  is  no  obscuring 
cloud,  he  remarks,  between  Kant  and  the  Eleatics,  Schopenhauer  and 
Empedocles,  yEschylus  and  Wagner.  "  The  world  has  been  orientalised  long 
enough,  and  men  now  seek  to  be  hellenised."  The  Gordian  knot  has  been 
cut  and  its  strands  are  fluttering  to  the  ends  of  the  world  ;  we  need  a  series  of 
Anti-Alexanders  mighty  enough  to  bring  together  the  scattered  threads  of 
life.  Wagner  is  such  an  Anti-Alexander,  a  great  astringent  force  in  the  world. 
For  "it  is  not  possible  to  present  the  highest  and  purest  operations  of 
dramatic  art,  and  not  therewith  to  renew  morals  and  the  state,  education  and 
affairs."  Bayreuth  is  the  sacred  consecration  on  the  morning  of  battle. 
"  The  battles  which  art  brings  before  us  are  a  simplification  of  the  actual  battles 
of  life  ;  its  problems  are  an  abbreviation  of  the  endlessly  involved  reckoning 
of  human  action  and  aspiration.  But  herein  lies  the  greatness  and  value  of 
art,  that  it  calls  forth  the  appearance  of  a  simpler  world,  a  shorter  solution  of 
the  problems  of  life.  No  one  who  suffers  in  life  can  dispense  with  that 
appearance,  just  as  no  one  can  dispense  with  sleep."  Wagner  has  simplified 
the  world ;  he  has  related  music  to  life,  the  drama  to  music ;  he  has 
intensified  the  visible  things  of  the  world,  and  made  the  audible  visible.  Just 
as  Goethe  found  in  poetry  an  expression  for  the  painter's  vocation  he  had 
missed,  so  Wagner  utilized  in  music  his  dramatic  instinct.  And  Nietzsche 
further  notes  the  democratic  nature  of  Wagner's  art,  so  strenuously  warm  and 
bright  as  to  reach  even  the  lowliest  in  spirit.  Wagner  takes  off  the  stigma 
that  clings  to  the  word  "  common,"  and  brings  to  all  the  means  of  attaining 
spiritual  freedom.  "  For,"  says  Nietzsche,  "  whosoever  will  be  free,  must  make 
himself  free  ;  freedom  is  no  fairy's  gift  to  fall  into  any  man's  lap."     Such  are 


FRIED  RICH  XIETZSCHE  89 

the  leading  thoughts  in  an  essay  which  remains  an  interesting  philosophic 
appreciation  of  the  place  of  Wagner's  art  in  the  modern  world. 

"  Richard  Wagner  in  Bayreuth  "  brings  to  an  end  Nietzsche's  first  period, 
and  may  itself  be  said  to  lead  up  to  the  crash  which  inaugurated  his  later 
period.  Hitherto  Nietzsche's  work  was  unquestionably  sane  both  in  substance 
and  form.  No  doubt  it  had  aroused  much  criticism  ;  work  so  vigorous, 
sincere,  and  independent  could  not  fail  to  arouse  hostility.  But  as  we  look 
back  to-day,  these  fine  essays  represent,  with  much  youthful  enthusiasm,  the 
best  that  was  known  and  thought  in  Germany  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago. 
Nietzsche's  opinions  on  Wagner  and  Schopenhauer,  on  individualism  and 
democracy,  the  significance  of  early  Hellenism  for  moderns,  the  danger  of  an 
excessive  historical  sense,  the  conception  of  culture  less  as  a  striving  after 
intellectual  knowledge  than  as  that  which  arouses  within  us  the  philosopher, 
the  artist,  and  the  saint — all  these  ideas,  wild  as  some  of  them  seemed  to 
Nietzsche's  German  contemporaries,  are  the  ideas  which  have  now  largely 
permeated  European  culture.  The  same  cannot  be  said  of  his  later 
ideas.  • 

It  was  at  the  first  Bayreuth  festival  in  1876  that  this  chapter  in  Nietzsche's 
life  was  finally  closed.  Many  strange  theories  have  been  put  forward  to  account 
for  the  change  that  then  came  over  him.  They  may  be  thrust  aside.  No 
mere  disappointment  with  the  festival,  or  with  "  Parsifal,"  or  with  Wagner's 
growing  conservatism,  no  mere  offence  to  Nietzsche's  own  amour-propre, 
suffice  to  explain  so  radical  an  upheaval.  The  change  was  more  fundamental. 
The  excitement  of  the  festival  merely  precipitated  an  organic  catastrophe 
towards  which  he  had  long  been  tending.  I  have  already  noted  passages 
which  indicate  that  he  was  himself  aware  of  a  consuming  flame  within,  and 
that  from  time  to  time  he  made  efforts  to  check  its  ravages.  That  it  was  this 
internal  flame  which  really  produced  the  breakdown  is  shown  by  the  narrative 
of  Nietzsche's  friend,  Dr.  Kretzer,  who  was  with  him  at  Bayreuth.  It  was 
evident  he  was  seriously  ill,  Kretzer  tells  us,  utterly  changed  and  broken 
down.  His  eye-troubles  were  associated,  if  not  with  actual  brain  disease,  at 
all  events  with  a  high  degree  of  neurasthenia,  and  the  physical  effect  of  the 
performance  was  so  overwhelming  that  he  was  only  able  to  be  present  at  a  few 
scenes  of  the  "  Nibelungen."  At  Bayreuth,  Nietzsche  was  forced  to  realize 
the  peril  of  his  position  as  he  had  never  realized  it  before.  He  could  no 
longer  disguise  from  himself  that  he  must  break  with  all  the  passionate 
interests  of  his  past.  It  was  an  essential  measure  of  hygiene,  almost  a  surgical 
operation.     This  is  indeed  how  he  has  himself  put  the  matter.     In  the  preface 


90  THE   SAVOY 

to  "  Der  Fall  Wagner,"  he  said  that  it  had  been  to  him  a  necessary  self- 
discipline  to  take  part  against  all  that  was  morbid  within  himself,  against 
Wagner,  against  Schopenhauer,  against  all  the  impassioning  interests  of 
modern  life,  and  to  view  the  world,  so  far  as  possible,  with  the  philosopher's 
eyes,  from  an  immense  height.  And  again  he  speaks  of  Wagner's  art  as  a 
beaker  of  ecstasy  so  subtle  and  profound  that  it  acts  like  poison  and  leaves  no 
remedy  at  last  but  flight  from  the  syren's  cave.  Nietzsche  was  henceforth  in 
the  position  of  a  gouty  subject  who  is  forced  to  abandon  port  wine  and 
straightway  becomes  an  apostle  of  total  abstinence.  The  remedy  seems  to 
have  been  fairly  successful.  But  the  disease  was  in  his  bones.  Impassioning 
interests  that  were  far  more  subtly  poisonous  slowly  developed  within  him,  and 
twelve  years  later  flight  had  become  impossible,  even  if  he  was  still  able  to 
realize  the  need  for  flight. 

Nietzsche  broke  very  thoroughly  with  his  past,  yet  the  break  has  been 
exaggerated,  and  he  himself  often  helped  to  exaggerate  it.  He  was  in  the 
position  of  a  beleaguered  city  which  has  been  forced  to  abandon  its  outer 
walls  and  concentrate  itself  in  the  citadel  ;  and  however  it  may  have  been  in 
ancient  warfare,  in  spiritual  affairs  such  a  state  of  things  involves  an  offensive 
attitude  towards  the  former  line  of  defence.  The  positions  we  have  abandoned 
constitute  a  danger  to  the  positions  we  have  taken  up.  Many  of  the  world's 
fiercest  persecutors  have  but  persecuted  their  old  selves,  and  there  seems  to  be 
psychological  necessity  for  such  an  attitude.  Yet  a  careful  study  of  Nietzsche's 
earlier  activity  reveals  many  germs  of  later  developments.  The  critical  atti- 
tude towards  conventional  morality,  the  individualism,  the  optimism,  the  ideal 
of  heroism,  which  dominate  his  later  thought,  exist  as  germs  in  his  earlier 
work.  Even  the  flagrant  contrast  between  "  Richard  Wagner  in  Bayreuth  " 
and  "Der  Fall  Wagner"  was  the  outcome  of  a  gradual  development.  In 
the  earlier  essay  Nietzsche  had  justly  pointed  out  that  Wagner's  instincts 
were  fundamentally  dramatic.  As  years  went  on  he  brooded  over  this 
idea ;  the  nimble  and  lambent  wit  of  his  later  days  played  around  it  until 
Wagner  became  a  mere  actor  in  his  work  and  in  his  life,  a  rhetorician,  an  in- 
carnate falsehood,  the  personification  of  latter-day  decadence,  the  Victor  Hugo 
of  music,  the  Bernini  of  music,  the  modern  Cagliostro.  At  the  same  time  he 
admits  that  Wagner  represents  the  modern  spirit,  and  that  it  is  reasonable  for 
a  musician  to  say  that  though  he  hates  Wagner  he  can  tolerate  no  other  music. 
The  fact  is  that  Nietzsche  was  not  Teuton  enough  to  abide  for  ever  with 
Wagner.  He  compares  him  contemptuously  with  Hegel,  cloud-compellers 
both,  masters  of  German  mists  and  German  mysticism,  worshippers  of  Wotan, 


FRIED  RICH  NIETZSCHE  91 

the  god  of  bad  weather,  the  god  of  the  Germans.  "  How  could  they  miss 
what  we,  we  Halcyonians,  miss  in  Wagner — la  gaya  scienza,  the  light  feet,  wit, 
fire,  grace,  strong  logic,  the  dance  of  the  stars,  arrogant  intellectuality,  the 
quivering  light  of  the  south,  the  smooth  sea — perfection  ?"  It  is  evident  that 
Nietzsche  had  not  gained  complete  mastery  of  his  own  personality  in  his 
earlier  work.  It  is  brilliant,  full  of  fine  perceptions  and  critical  insight,  but  as 
a  personal  utterance  incomplete.  It  renders  the  best  ideas  of  the  time,  not  the 
best  ideas  that  Nietzsche  could  contribute  to  the  time.  The  shock  of  1876 
may  have  been  a  step  towards  the  disintegration  of  his  intellect,  but  it  was 
also  a  rally,  a  step  towards  self-realization.  Nietzsche  had  no  genuine  affinity 
with  Schopenhauer  or  with  Wagner,  though  they  were  helpful  to  his  develop- 
ment ;  he  was  no  pessimist,  he  was  no  democrat.  As  he  himself  said,  "  I 
understood  the  philosophic  pessimism  of  the  nineteenth  century  as  the 
symptom  of  a  finer  strength  of  thought,  a  more  victorious  fullness  of  life. 
In  the  same  way  Wagner's  music  signified  to  me  the  expression  of  a 
Dionysiac  mightiness  of  soul  in  which  I  seemed  to  hear,  as  in  an  earth- 
quake, the  upheaval  of  the  primitive  powers  of  life,  after  age-long  repres- 
sion." Now  he  only  needed  relief,  "golden,  tender,  oily  melodies"  to  soothe 
the  leaden  weight  of  life,  and  these  he  found  in  "  Carmen." 

Any  discussion  of  the  merits  of  the  question  as  between  Wagner  and 
Bizet,  the  earlier  and  the  later  Nietzsche,  seems  to  me  out  of  place,  though 
much  has  been  made  of  it  by  those  who  delight  to  see  a  giant  turn  and  rend 
himself.  Nietzsche  himself  said  he  was  writing  for  psychologists,  and  it  is  not 
unfair  to  add  that  it  is  less  "  Wagner's  case "  that  he  presents  to  us  than 
"  Nietzsche's  case."  For  my  own  part — speaking  as  one  who  finds  Wagner  the 
greatest  among  modern  musicians,  and  "  Carmen  "  the  most  delightful  modern 
opera  outside  Wagner — I  can  address  both  the  early  and  the  late  Nietzsche  in 
the  words  habitually  used  by  the  landlord  of  the  "  Rainbow  :  "  "  You're  both 
wrong  and  you're  both  right,  as  I  alius  says."  Most  of  the  mighty  quarrels 
that  have  sent  men  to  battle  and  the  stake  might  have  been  appeased  had  both 
sides  recognized  that  both  were  right  in  their  affirmations,  both  wrong  in  their 
denials. 

Nietzsche  occupied  his  chair  at  Basel  for  some  years  longer  ;  in  1880  his 
health  forced  him  to  resign  and  he  was  liberally  pensioned.  As  a  professor  he 
treated  the  most  difficult  questions  of  Greek  study,  and  devoted  his  chief 
attention  to  his  best  pupils,  who  in  their  turn  adored  him.  Basel  is  an  admir- 
able residence  for  a  cosmopolitan  thinker  ;  it  was  easy  for  Nietzsche  to  keep  in 
touch  with  all  that  went  on  from   Paris  to  St.  Petersburg.     He  was  also  on 


92  THE   SAVOY 

terms  of  more  or  less  intimate  friendship  with  the  finest  spirits  in  Switzerland, 
with  Keller  the  novelist,  Bocklin  the  painter,  Burckhardt  the  historian.  We 
are  told  that  he  was  a  man  of  great  personal  charm  in  social  intercourse.  But 
his  associates  at  Basel  never  suspected  that  in  this  courteous  and  amiable 
professor  was  stored  up  an  explosive  energy  which  would  one  day  be  felt  in 
every  civilized  land.  With  pen  in  hand  his  criticism  of  life  was  unflinching,  his 
sincerity  arrogant  ;  when  the  pen  was  dropped  he  became  modest,  reserved, 
almost  timorous. 

The  work  he  produced  between  1877  and  1882  seems  to  me  to  represent 
the  maturity  of  his  genius.  It  includes  "  Menschliches,  Allzumenschliches," 
"  Morgenrothe,"  and  "  Die  Frohliche  Wissenschaft  {la  gay  a  scienza)."  In  form 
all  these  volumes  belong  Yopensee  literature.  They  deal  with  art,  with  religion, 
with  morals  and  philosophy,  with  the  relation  of  all  these  to  life.  Nietzsche 
shows  himself  in  these  pensees  above  all  a  freethinker,  emancipated  from  every 
law  save  that  of  sincerity,  wide-ranging,  serious,  penetrative,  often  impassioned, 
as  yet  always  able  to  follow  his  own  ideal  of  self-restraint. 

After  leaving  Basel  he  spent  the  following  nine  years  chiefly  at  health 
resorts  and  in  travelling.  We  find  him  at  Sorrento,  Venice,  Genoa,  Turin,  Sils 
Maria,  as  well  as  at  Leipzig.  Doubtless  his  fresh  and  poignant  pensees  are 
largely  the  outcome  of  strenuous  solitary  walks  in  the  Engadine  or  among  the 
Italian  lakes.  We  may  assume  that  during  most  of  these  years  he  was  fight- 
ing, on  the  whole  successfully  fighting,  for  mental  health.  Yet  passages  that 
occur  throughout  his  books  seem  to  suggest  that  his  thoughts  may  have  some- 
times turned  to  the  goal  towards  which  he  was  tending.  It  is  a  mistake,  he 
points  out,  to  suppose  that  insanity  is  always  the  symptom  of  a  degenerating 
culture,  although  to  nod  towards  the  asylum  is  a  convenient  modern  way  of 
slaying  spiritual  tyrants  ;  it  is  in  primitive  and  developing  stages  of  culture 
that  insanity  has  played  its  chief  part  ;  it  was  only  by  virtue  of  what  seemed 
to  be  the  "  Divine  "  turbulence  of  insanity  and  epilepsy  that  any  new  moral 
law  could  make  progress  among  early  cultures.  Just  as  for  us  there  seems  a 
little  madness  in  all  genius,  so  for  them  there  seemed  a  little  genius  in  all  mad- 
ness, so  that  sorcerers  and  saints  agonized  in  solitude  and  abstinence  for  some 
gleam  of  madness  which  would  bring  them  faith  in  themselves  and  openly 
justify  their  mission. 

What  may,  perhaps,  be  called  Nietzsche's  third  period  began  in  1883  with 
"  Also  sprach  Zarathustra,"  the  most  extraordinary  of  all  his  works,  mystical 
in  form,  and  recalling  the  oracular  aphoristic  manner  of  the  Hebrews,  but  not 
mystical   in  substance.      It  was  followed  by  "  Jenseits  von  Gut   und   Bose," 


FRIED  RICH  NIETZSCHE  93 

"  Zur  Genealogic  der  Moral,"  "  Der  Fall  Wagner,"  and  "  Gotzendammerung." 
It  is  during  this  period  that  we  trace  the  growth  of  the  magnification  of  his 
own  personal  mission,  which  finally  became  a  sort  of  megalomania.  In  form 
the  books  of  this  period  are  somewhat  less  fragmentary  than  those  of  the 
second  period ;  in  substance  they  are  marked  by  their  emphatic,  often 
extravagant,  almost  reckless  insistence  on  certain  views  of  morality.  If  in  the 
first  period  he  was  an  apostle  of  culture,  in  the  second  a  freethinker,  pro- 
nouncing judgment  on  all  things  in  heaven  and  earth,  he  was  now  exclusively 
a  moralist,  or,  as  he  would  prefer  to  say,  an  immoralist.  It  was  during  this 
period  that  he  worked  out  his  "  master  morality  " — the  duty  to  be  strong — in 
opposition  to  the  "  slave  morality "  of  Christianity,  with  its  glorification  of 
weakness  and  pity,  and  that  he  consistently  sought  to  analyze  and  destroy  the 
traditional  conceptions  of  good  and  evil  on  which  our  current  morality  rests. 
The  last  work  w-hich  he  planned,  but  never  completed,  was  a  re-valuation  of 
all  values,  "  Umwerthung  aller  Werthe,"  which  would  have  been  his  final 
indictment  of  the  modern  world,  and  the  full  statement  of  his  own  immoralism 
and  Dionysiac  philosophy. 

It  is  sometimes  said  that  Nietzsche's  mastery  of  his  thought  and  style 
was  increasing  up  to  the  last.  This  I  can  scarcely  admit,  even  as  regards 
style.  No  doubt  there  is  a  light  and  swift  vigour  of  movement  in  these 
last  writings  which  before  he  had  never  attained.  He  pours  out  a  shim- 
mering stream  of  golden  phrases  with  which  he  has  intoxicated  himself,  and 
tries  to  intoxicate  us.  We  may  lend  ourselves  to  the  charm,  but  it  has  no 
enduring  hold.  This  master  of  gay  or  bitter  invective  no  longer  possesses 
the  keenly  reasoned  and  piercing  insight  of  the  earlier  Nietzsche.  We  feel 
that  he  has  become  the  victim  of  obsessions  which  drive  him  like  a  leaf  before 
the  wind,  and  all  his  exuberant  wit  is  unsubstantial  and  pathetic  as  that  of 
Falstaff.  The  devouring  flame  has  at  length  eaten  the  core  out  of  the  man 
and  his  style,  leaving  only  this  coruscating  shell.  And  at  a  touch  even  this 
thin  shell  collapsed  into  smouldering  embers. 

From  a  child  Nietzsche  was  subject  to  strangely  prophetic  dreams.  In  a 
dream  which,  when  a  boy,  he  put  into  literary  form,  he  tells  how  he  seemed  to 
be  travelling  forward  amid  a  glorious  landscape,  while  carolling  larks  ascended 
to  the  clouds,  and  his  whole  life  seemed  to  stretch  before  him  in  a  vista  of 
happy  years  ;  "  and  suddenly  a  shrill  cry  reached  our  ears  ;  it  came  from  the 
neighbouring  lunatic  asylum."  Even  in  1876  it  became  visible  to  his  friends 
that  Nietzsche  attached  extraordinary-  importance  to  his  own  work.  After  he 
wrote  "  Zarathustra,"  this  self-exaltation  increased,  and  began  to  find  expres- 


94  THE   SAVOY 

sion  in  his  work.  Latterly,  it  is  said,  he  came  to  regard  himself  as  the 
incarnation  of  the  genius  of  humanity.  It  has  always  been  found  a  terrible 
matter  to  war  with  the  moral  system  of  one's  age  ;  it  will  have  its  revenge, 
one  way  or  another,  from  within  or  from  without,  whatever  happens  after. 
Nietzsche  strove  for  nothing  less  than  to  remodel  the  moral  world  after  his 
own  heart's  desire,  and  his  brain  was  perishing  of  exhaustion  in  the  immense 
effort.  In  1889 — at  the  moment  when  his  work  at  last  began  to  attract 
attention — he  became  hopelessly  insane.  A  period  of  severe  hallucinatory 
delirium  led  on  to  complete  dementia,  and  he  passes  beyond  our  sight. 

Havelock  Ellis. 


THE   FORGE 

LONG  and  narrow  shop,  magenta  black 
Mottled  with  rose  ;  ten  fires  along  one  wall. 
Faint  day  comes  through  the  skylight  overhead 
Smoke-grimed  to  orange,  when  it  comes  at  all. 
The  blast  shut  off  for  breakfast,  fires  are  slack. 


The  buzzing  neighbouring  engine  quieted, 
You  hear  the  mates  talking  from  berth  to  berth 
The  silence  is  complete.     The  seldom  noises 
Reverberate  as,  quaintly,  under  earth 
The  graves  repeat  the  sayings  of  the  dead. 

Contrasted  with  the  metals,  human  voices 
Sound  hoarse  and  soft,  as  out  of  hollowed  wood. 
Their  beverage  made  :  of  boiling  water,  stained 
With  tea  and  sugar,  they  prepare  their  food  : 
"  Tiger,"  to  envy,  even  where  there  choice  is  ; 

Here  and  now,  truly,  not  to  be  disdained. 
Hear  in  what  manner  it  is  perfected  ; 
How  old  world  'tis.     The  anvil  polished  bright 
With  leather  skirt,  two  hearty  chunks  of  bread, 
Protecting  ivory  bacon,  purple  veined, 

Are  set  thereon  with  caution  ;  and  the  wight 

Who  owns  the  morsel,  passes  over  it 

A  piece  of  red-hot  iron  till  'tis  brown. 

It  cleans  the  tongue  to  hear  it  fizzle  and  spit, 

If  two  hours'  work  vouchsafe  no  appetite. 

This  done,  the  smith  has  only  to  sit  down 
To  eat  his  greasy  "  tiger,"  and  drink  off 


98  THE  SAVOY 

His  sweet,  strong  tea.     This,  being  yet  too  hot, 
Hangs  in  the  rust-red  water  of  the  trough 
To  cool.     The  smith  is  sleeping,  with  a  frown 

Upon  his  shapeless  features.     This  is  not 
The  ballad  wag  they  tell  of:  at  his  best 
Maimed  in  his  poor  hands,  wry,  with  crooked  back, 
Great-armed,  bow-legged,  and  narrow  in  the  chest. 
It  bends  a  man  to  make  no  matter  what. 

A  rumour  stirs,  a  hum,  the  blast  comes  back  ; 
Shadows  on  wall  and  roof  start  forth  and  die. 
Rattle  of  tongs,  slosh,  fume  ;  unlovely  night 
Grown  Chinese  hell,  to  seeming,  suddenly, 
Where  strange  gods  heap  the  fire  and  trim  the  rack. 

Half  shapes  of  light  leap  higher  than  man's  height 

Out  from  the  blackness  and  as  soon  subside, 

Flame-flesh-shapes,  sweat-swamped  clinging  cotton  swathed, 

In  violent  action,  following  the  guide 

Of  the  smith's  gesture  bidding  where  to  smite. 

The  smitten  steel  complains,  all  bruised  and  scathed, 
From  thud  to  bark,  from  bark  to  metal  scream  ; 
Through  ordeal  of  the  fire  and  scaling  trough, 
To  wake  it  from  its  long-embowelled  dream, 
To  uses  brought,  flame-licked  and  torture-bathed. 

This  the  arena  wherein  stubborn  stuff 
With  man  locks  strength  ;  where  elements  dispute 
The  mastery,  where  breath  and  fire  bear  blaze, 
Where  sullen  water  aids,  to  quell  the  brute 
Earth  into  shape,  to  make  it  meek  enough. 

And  this  day  is  the  type  of  many  days. 

John  Gray 


THE    DETERIORATION    OF 

NANCY 

[I  have  obtained  access  to  the  remaining  portion  of  the  Correspondence  between  a  dis- 
tinguished member  of  the  Royal  Academy  and  Miss  Nancy  Nanson,  of  the  Variety  Stage. 
I  see  that  the  young  lady's  are  the  more  numerous  and  the  shorter  letters  ;  and  in  them,  as 
they  proceed,  I  seem  to  discern  some  change  of  tone — a  rather  quick  transition  or  develop- 
ment (call  it  what  you  will)  which,  if  it  is  really  there,  is  unlikely  to  have  escaped  the  eye  of 
her  correspondent,  and  may  perhaps  even  have  prepared  him  in  a  certain  measure  for  a 
denouement  which,  nevertheless,  when  it  arrived,  disturbed  him  seriously.  That,  at  least, 
is  my  own  reading  of  Miss  Nanson's  notes.     But  I  am  possibly  wrong.] 

Weymouth  : 

September  2$t/t. 

Dear  Mr.  Ashton 

j  S  I  suppose  you  leave  Weymouth  to-day  I  will  send  this  to 
London.  It  is  only  to  thank  you  very  much  for  your  long 
letter  and  your  kindness  to  me,  in  which  Mother  joins.  I 
hope  you  are  well. 

I  remain  yours  very  sincerely 

Nancy  Nansox. 
Mr.  Clement  Ashton. 

ioo  York  Road,  Waterloo  Road. 
Oct.  20. 
Dear  Mr.  Ashton 

I  thought  I  should  like  to  let  you  know  that  I  have  come  to  London. 

I  have  not  an  engagement  yet,  but  I  have  a  pantomime  engagement  in  view. 

With  best  wishes  I  remain  yours  sincerely 

Nancy  Nanson. 
Clement  Ashton,  Esq  :  R.A. 

100  York  Road,  Waterloo  Road. 
Nov.  5. 
Dear  Mr.  Ashton- 

I  was  so  sorry  I  was  out  when  you  called.  If  I  had  known  you  were 
coming  I  would  have  stayed  at  home.  We  are  all  right  here.  The  landlady- 
is  awfully  nice.     I  would  come  and  see  you  if  you  appointed  a  time. 


ioo  THE   SAVOY 

I  think  you  will  be  glad  to  hear  that  I'm  engaged  for  principal  girl 
for  the  Pantomime  at  the  Theatre  Royal,  Hoxton,  by  R.  Solomon,  Esq.  In 
about  a  month  we  shall  begin  rehearsing.     I  am  engaged  for  eight  weeks. 

We  hope  you  are  well. 

Hoping  to  see  you  soon,  with  my  best  wishes,  in  which  Mother  unites,  I 
am  yours  very  sincerely, 

Nancy  Nanson. 


ioo  York  Road,  Waterloo  Road, 
November  20. 

Dear  Mr.  Ashton 

It  was  so  kind  of  you  to  take  me  to  the  theatre  yesterday  afternoon. 
I  must  write  to  tell  you  so.  How  nice  Miss  Annie  Hughes  was !  She  makes 
you  laugh  and  cry.  I  like  her  more  than  any  actress  I  have  ever  seen.  The 
man  was  funny,  wasn't  he  ! 

Thanking  you  again,  and  with  best  regards  from  Mother,  believe  me 
yours  very  sincerely 

Nancy  Nanson. 

P.S.  I  am  to  do  an  extra  on  Saturday  nights  at  the  Bedford  Camden 
Town,  and  at  Gatti's,  Westminster  Bridge  Road.  I  am  very  pleased,  as  I  am 
tired  of '  resting.'  When  we  go  to  Hoxton  we  shall  take  lodgings  where  there 
is  a  piano.  I  have  been  practising  an  acrobatic  trick  for  the  pantomime. 
The  public  likes  them.  The  Theatre  Royal,  Hoxton,  is  more  for  the  masses 
than  the  classes. 

The  Walk,  Hoxton, 

Christmas  Day. 

Dear  Mr.  Ashton 

O !  thank  you  for  remembering  us  on  Christmas  Day.  I  was  so 
pleased.  We  hope  you  will  come  to  see  the  Panto.  It  went  very  well  last 
night.  I  go  very  well  so  far.  My  voice  sounds  splendid  here.  It  is  not  lost 
in  the  glass  roof,  as  at  the  '  People's  Delight.' 

I  have  been  so  very,  very  busy  rehearsing,  I  have  seen  very  little  of  Hoxton 
yet,  so  I  do  not  know  how  I  shall  like  it.  I  shall  know  better  soon  ;  now  that 
we  have  started  the  Panto. 

With  best  wishes  for  a  happy  Christmas  from  Mother  and  from  me,  I  am 
yours  sincerely  and  gratefully,  in  haste, 

Nancy  Nanson. 


THE  DETERIORATION  OF  NANCY  101 

The  Walk,  Hoxton, 

6th  January. 

I  am  glad  you  came  to  see  me  yesterday  afternoon.  How  did  you  like 
me?  But  it  was  so  fiat.  I  am  sorry  you  came  to  a  matinee.  Half  the  house 
are  mere  children,  then.  In  the  evening  it  is  different.  And  they  cut  out 
part  of  my  song  yesterday.  It  made  me  cry — I  was  so  cross.  I  generally  jump 
about  much  more.  I  am  much  merrier.  Mother  and  I  shall  be  so  pleased  if 
you  have  time  to  come  again. 

Sincerely  yours  in  haste, 

N.  Nanson. 

P.S.  Mr.  Solomon  wants  to  engage  me  for  next  year,  I  think.  And  for 
better  money. 

The  Studios,  Westminster, 
7  th  January. 

Dear  Nancy, 

No,  I  did  not  think  you  were  up  to  the  mark  yesterday.  It  was  a 
>'aggcd  performance.  I  write,  of  course,  frankly.  First  then,  as  to  your  singing, — 
I  never  very  much  believed  in  that.  But  you  would  sing  much  better  if  you  knew 
that  you  sang  badly.  You  would  then  understand  that  I  was  serious  when 
I  told  you,  what  you  really  wanted  was  singing  lessons.  Voice  production,  my 
dear.  And  your  speaking  voice  is  excellent.  You  used  it  well  upon  the  whole, 
yesterday.  A  little  careless,  I  thought — a  mistake  sometimes,  in  the  emphasis. 
But  what  is  pantomime  dialogue  !  I  will  come  again,  if  you  like  me  to  see  you, 
and  you  will  do  all  that  better.  For  agility  in  dancing,  for  vivacity  in  action, 
you  seemed  as  good  as  it  is  possible  to  be.  And  you  take  in  every  point — 
even  yesterday  I  noticed,  you  believed  in  every  bit  of  the  story.  To  do  so,  and 
to  live  in  it,  is  the  foundation  of  an  actress.  Yes,  with  your  intelligence,  with 
your  alertness,  your  quick  life,  actress  just  as  much  as  dancer  you  may 
very  well  be. 

You  come  to  Westminster,  next  week,  any  morning  except  Wednesday. 
I  must  make  one  more  drawing  of  you.  Not  a  pastel  this  time.  I  have  long 
since  done  with  the  pastels  of  you.  They  are  good  as  far  as  they  go.  Your 
colour  and  your  dress,  your  movement  and  your  pose,  they  record  not  at  all 
unhappily.  But  I  want  a  careful  drawing — a  drawing  in  line — and  shall  make 
it  perhaps  in  pencil  ;  perhaps  even  in  silver-point.  You  are  such  a  strange, 
variable  child,  you  see — there  is  not  one  subject  in  you,  but  a  hundred  ;  and 
I  shall  not  be  contented  till  I  have,  somewhere  else  than  in  my  memory,  the 


102  THE   SAVOY 

eyebrow's  line,  the  delicate  low  forehead,  the  fine  nose,  half  Greek  (and  it 
gains  so  in  character  as  you  throw  your  mind  into  your  work) — all  that  and 
the  curve  of  the  open  nostril.  This  moment,  they  are  at  my  fingers'  ends. 
And  your  grave  sweetness  ! 

Frank,  is  it  not  ?  Yet  I  am  not  a  foolish  person,  making  up  to  you.  I 
am  not  a  vulgar  flatterer  of  the  first  prettiness  in  the  street.  You  know  how 
much  I  am  an  artist — heart  and  soul,  my  dear — by  which  I  mean  that  unlike 
too  many  of  my  brethren,  I  am  not  only  a  painter. 

Your  '  notices  '  are  good,  I  see.     Very  good.     I  congratulate  you.     The 

time  is  coming  perhaps  when  you  will  patronise  me — when  you  will  even  be  so 

very  great  that  you  will  quite  '  cut '  me.     '  No,  no,'  I  hear  you  say — indeed 

you  said  it  when  I  saw  you  last — '  No,  no,  Mr.  Ashton,  I  should  never  do  that.' 

You  say  it  with  your  voice — and  with  your  steady  eyes  you  say  it  even  more. 

Until  next  week,  then  ! 

I  am  sincerely  yours, 

Clement  Ashton. 

The  Walk,  Hoxton  : 
loth  February. 

Dear  Mr.  Ashton. 

Mother  says,  How  long  since  we  have  seen  you  !  You  said  you  would 
come  again  to  our  Panto.  Since  that,  remember,  I  have  been  twice  to  West- 
minster, to  sit  to  you.  They  are  going  to  publish  one  of  the  drawings,  are  they  ? 
You  will  put  my  name  to  it,  won't  you  ? 

Saturday  is  my  last  night.  Mother  says,  Can  you  come  then  ?  I  shall 
have  all  my  admirers.  And  the  boys  in  the  gallery — though  you  say  I  sing  so 
badly — all  the  boys  in  the  gallery  taking  up  my  song.  After  Saturday,  I  am 
booked  for  the  Halls. 

Yesterday  I  was  taken  a  long  drive  to  Hagley  Wood.  It  is  near  Barnet. 
I  have  had  a  great  deal  of  attention  here. 

I  am  yours  very  sincerely, 

Nancy  Nanson. 

P.S.  Mr.  Ashton,  I  allow  you  to  say  anything.  Be  sure  and  tell  me 
what  you  think,  if  you  come  Saturday. 

The  Studios,  Westminster  : 
Sunday,  idth  Feb : 

My  Dear  Nancy  : 

Yes,  you  allow  me  to  say  any  thing — for  a  lifetime  divides  us — and 
because  I  am  a  friend  of  yours  I  shall  say  the  bare  hard  truth.     I  saw  you 


THE  DETERIORATION  OF  NANCY  103 

yesterday,  as  you  know,  for  you  espied  me  from  the  stage.  From  the  point  of 
view  of  a  theatrical  success,  the  thing  was  quite  undoubted.  You  were  a  mass 
of  nerves.  You  came  across  the  house  to  us.  The  footlights  ceased  to  be. 
Your  effect  was  extraordinary.  Shylock's  '  How  much  more  elder  art  thou  than 
thy  years ! ' — the  thing  he  said  to  Portia — is  a  question  which  may  be  put,  no 
doubt,  with  reasonableness,  to  many  little  ladies  at  the  theatre.  There  is 
nothing  like  the  theatre  for  ageing  you.  You,  Nancy,  are  now,  not  five 
months,  but  two  years  older  than  you  were  last  autumn.  At  first  I  was  afraid 
of  it,  physically.  That  last  time  that  you  came  to  me,  to  the  studio,  your  face 
was  quite  drawn  :  not  only  its  expressions,  its  very  lines,  had  aged.  You  were 
pale  ;  you  were  worn.     And  sixteen  ! 

Hut  yesterday  that  was  all  right,  again  ;  and,  Nancy,  it  was  the  deeper 
You  that  had  altered.  I — I  was  always  an  idealist,  remember,  and  so  you  will 
forgive  me.  I  go  down  to  the  grave,  when  my  time  comes,  poet,  after  all,  far 
more  than  craftsman.  Those  changes,  more  or  less,  that  I  notice  in  you — those 
changes  not  for  the  better,  I  mean — I  was  never  blind  to  the  possibility  of  them. 
Idealist  though  I  am,  I  foresaw  them — I  foresaw  them,  with  forebodings. 

There  was  my  first  long  letter  to  you.  It  will  be  well,  perhaps,  that 
I  should  not  say  anything  more  in  detail.  But  read  that  again — the  last  part 
of  it,  I  mean — and  be  warned. 

But  no — the  detail  shan't  be  spared  you,  though  what  it  really  comes  to — 
I  tell  it  you  from  my  heart,  and  you  will  keep  this  letter  to  yourself 
— all  that  it  really  comes  to  is  that  you  will  be  '  spoilt.'  '  Spoilt '  or  '  ruined.' 
You  are  so  sensible  in  many  things.  Clever  I  don't  know  that  you  are,  except 
in  your  profession.  It  all  runs  into  that  one  channel  with  you.  Quickness  of 
'  study,'  closeness  of  observation,  immediate  faultless  power  of  mimicry, 
vivacity,  agility  in  the  dance — all  that  we  know  ;  and  then  at  home  your 
sensitiveness,  your  quickness,  and  your  helpful  tact.  But  as  to  books,  as  to 
pictures,  as  to  music  beyond  your  showy  music  of  the  theatre,  as  to  the  things 
that  happen  in  the  world,  and  that  interest  people — these  things  are  all 
nothing  to  you.  Who  can  wonder  !  Your  whole  little  eager  heart  is  in  your 
work.  Your  work  is  your  play  too — and  the  whole  of  your  play.  But  a 
thirst  for  admiration,  my  dear,  and  vanity,  vanity  !  Will  you  split,  like  the 
others,  on  that  rock  ? 

Last  night,  your  face  had  new  expressions.  There  were  things  I  never 
saw  in  it,  before.  In  that  palace-scene,  the  slim  young  thing — how  queenly 
you  were,  in  the  white  silk,  spangled  with  silver :  how  queenly,  and  withal  a 
little  contemptuous,  a  little  scornful  !     I  watched  you,  Nancy,  with  a  keenness 

G 


104  THE    SAVOY 

horribly  inconvenient  for  you — or  the  scornful  look,  the  bored  look,  the  blase 
look  (I  have  said  the  worst  that  I  can  say)  would  have  passed  perhaps 
unperceived.     They  were  there. 

Again,  you  acted  to  the  house  too  much.  I  am  not  finding  fault  with 
you  technically  for  that, — though  you  did,  I  think,  overdo  it.  I  am  talking  to 
the  girl,  and  not  to  the  stage  character.  There  was  one  look  at  the  Boxes  :  at 
a  private  Box  rather — but  I  spare  you. 

Who  the  dickens  are  the  people  who  have  had  this  influence  upon  you? — 
hour  by  hour  ;  drop  by  drop,  I  suppose  :  here  a  little  and  there  a  little — in  the 
life  I  begin  to  hate  for  you.  .  .  .  But  it  is  no  use  hating  it.  I  suppose  that  I 
could  take  you  from  it,  if  I  liked.  I  have  the  money  to — no  overwhelming 
claims  on  me.  But  you  would  leave  all  this  unwillingly  :  and,  in  the  end, 
ought  you  to  leave  it  ? 

My  dear  Nancy,  I  will  spare  you  any  more.  But  read  much  more  than  I 
have  actually  written.  Imagine  yourself  talked  to,  very  gravely  :  fancy  your- 
self receiving  a  good  long,  serious  talking  to.     Think  !    Think !    I  have  finished. 

My  dear  child,  you  are  a  good  girl  at  heart,  you  know — and  such  an 
eager  little  fiery  one — when  you  are  not  grave  and  sober.  The  stuff  is  in  you 
out  of  which  they  make  Sisters  of  Charity.  The  stuff  is  in  you  out  of  which — — 
But  No!    Why? 

I  am  your  old  and  fatherly,  your  g raW-fatherly  friend, 
if  you  prefer  it — 

Clement  Ashton. 

Tuesday,  Feb.  iSth. 

My  dear  Mr.  Ashton. 

I  cried  so  much  when  I  got  your  letter.  For  you  have  been  very 
kind  to  me.     I  suppose  I  deserved  it. 

Nancy. 

Great  Coram  Street, 

Thursday,  Feb.  7.0th. 

Dear  Mr.  Ashton, 

We  have  moved.  Until  I  get  into  a  burlesque  at  Easter,  I  am 
working  two  of  the  Halls.  On  Monday  I  have  a  new  song  at  the  Metro- 
politan— the  '  Met ' — Edgware  Road,  nine  o'clock.  New  dresses,  and  I  do 
a  new  dance.     Also  at  Gatti's,  Westminster  Bridge  Road,  at  10.15. 

Sincerely  yours  and  gratefully, 

Nancy  Nanson. 


THE   DETERIORATION  OF  NANCY  rc.5 

Great  Coram  Street, 

Tuesday,  Feb.  25. 

The  engagement  only  lasts  a  week,  Mr.  Ashton.  Am  I  not  going  to  be  a 
favourite,  then  ?  I  have  tried  for  that  music-hall  kept  by  that  faddy  lady,  the 
philanthropist.  She  is  very  severe.  Why,  she  won't  let  you  take  up  your 
skirts,  even.  I  say,  and  Motlier  says,  she  ought  to  keep  a  chapel — not  a  music- 
hall. 

In  haste, 

Nancy. 


Great  Coram  Street. 

You  were  always  kind  to  me.     Mother  is  wild.     And  you,  you  will  never 
forgive  me. 

From  , 

Nancy. 


Westminster, 

\Vh  April. 

My  dear  Nancy. 

At  least  I  hurried  to  make  the  matter  smoother  for  you  at  home, 
though,  sooner  or  later  that  would  have  been  effected  anyhow  ;  for  you  and 
your  mother  are  at  one,  generally.  She  is  really  fond  of  you,  and  you  of  her. 
I  have  not  done  much  for  you. 

And  now  what  can  I  do  ?  My  business— if  I  have  any — is  to  wait.  '  Did 
I,'  I  ask  myself,  '  lose  any  opportunity  of  action  ? '  Could  I  have  stepped  in, 
to  stop  you  ?  Nancy,  I  talk  brutally,  though  I  would  not  know,  with  definite  - 
ness,  any  detail — but  the  valuation  set  by  me  on  mere  physical  chastity — 
were  it  that  that  was  in  question — might  be  perhaps  three  half-pence.  One 
friend  at  all  events  you  have,  between  whom  and  yourself  no  mad  outrageous 
freak  of  yours,  raises  insuperable  barriers.  And  you  feel  that.  Then  why 
was  I  concerned  for  your  Future,  months  ago  ?  The  deterioration,  the  slow 
change  in  you,  that  must  be  coming  or  have  come  ;  the  undermining  and 
deterioration,  it  may  be — I  say,  that  is  the  deep  injury — but  the  very  words 
draw  round  you  like  a  curse.  I  haven't  the  heart  left  to  sketch  in  words  a 
sure  decline.     And,  if  I  had,  why  should  I  overdo  it  ? 

Was  it  done  by  you  for  gain,  for  sudden  greed,  for  ambition,  for  vanity? 


106  THE   SAVOY 

Answer  yourself — not  me.  If  it  had  been  done  for  love — well  then  at  all 
events  I  might  have  thought  of  your  Future  differently.  Nancy,  I  must  make 
excuses  for  you — excuses  in  any  case.  Once  in  your  short  life  at  least,  you 
have  been  near  to  want — that  winter  you  and  your  Mother  came  out  into  the 
Strand,  from  the  empty  treasury  of  a  bogus  management,  with  sixpence  in 
your  pockets,  instead  of  a  salary.  Yes,  sixpence  it  was — that  was  your  salary. 
You  told  me  so  yourself.  And  your  voice  '  went '  in  that  cruel  winter  weather, 
as  the  little  figure,  with  its  slender  grace,  slid  through  the  fog  and  blackened 
rain  and  reeking  river  mists  of  December  in  London.  After  that,  Money, 
which  seems  to  some  people  a  small  thing  in  the  distance — so  sure,  so  unim- 
portant— must  have  loomed  large  and  of  immense  importance,  in  the  near 
foreground,  to  you.  Again,  of  course,  we  have  our  moods.  We  may  be  taken 
unawares.  Judgment  goes — principle.  All  your  life,  Nancy — with  only  trivial 
exceptions,  after  all — your  life  is  good  to  this  hour.  And  in  all  our  lives,  every 
day  has  its  own  difficulties  :  every  hour  is  a  choice.  Good  and  diligent,  and 
sweet  and  bright,  wise  too  and  helpful — week  after  week,  month  after  month, 
you  answer  to  your  helm  :  and  then  there  comes  one  hour  which  leaves  you 
rudderless.  I  should  be  hard  on  you  indeed,  if  I  remembered  only  that  hour 
— if  I  forgot  the  ninety  and  nine.     My  dear  Nancy,  I  am  not  hard  on  you  ! 

It  is  late  at  night  when  I  write  this.  And,  in  my  thoughts,  you  have  been 
with  me  the  whole  of  the  day.  The  story  can't  be  an  unusual  story — and  I  am 
a  man  of  the  world,  or  ought  to  be.  No,  the  story  can't  be  an  unusual  story  : 
but  the  girl  is  an  unusual  girl. 

Well,  you  must  live  it  down,  my  dear — must  have  done  with  it — must 
forget  it.  But  then  there  is  the  deterioration — some  deterioration  at  least — 
that  made  the  thing  possible.  And  what  more  may  be  possible — mend  and 
patch  and  cobble  as  we  will  ? 

All  day  you  have  been  in  my  thoughts.  When  I  was  setting  my  palette 
in  the  morning  :  arranging  the  light  :  screwing  up  the  easel,  waiting  for  the 
sitter,  who  was  late — they  are  always  late — I  thought  '  She  has  made  a  mess 
of  it — poor  little  Nancy — foolish  minx  ! '  I  was  very  silent  with  my  sitter.  I 
was  scarcely  even  polite.  She  noticed  it  ;  and  it  affected  her.  The  sitting  was 
a  failure.  I  bowed  the  lady  out.  Nancy  Nanson  in  my  thoughts.  The 
luncheon  table  was  all  wrong  :  not  a  thing  as  it  ought  to  have  been.  '  Nancy 
Nanson,  at  the  Devil,  poor  girl ! '  A  walk  in  the  streets,  afterwards.  The 
omnibuses  rattling  past  me  in  Victoria  Street.  '  Nancy  Nanson — is  it  all  up 
with  her  ? '  Nothing  else.  The  bell  of  Christ  Church,  Westminster,  a 
tinkle  for  Evensong.    The  day  goes  on,  then  !    '  Nancy  Nanson  ! '    Afterwards, 


THE  DETERIORATION  OF  NANCY  107 

in  the  quiet  of  St.  James's  Park,  near  Birdcage  Walk,  the  clear  sound  of  the 
bugle — the  recall  to  barracks.  '  Nancy  Nanson  ! '  And  then,  the  space  of 
the  Park  water,  calm,  as  I  saw  it  from  the  foot-bridge,  by  the  five  poplars — 
and  the  April  evening  sky,  clear  and  serene.  '  Nancy  Nanson  at  the  Devil ! 
Poor  girl !    The  Devil  perhaps.     The  dear  and  clever  irresponsible  child  ! ' 

Nancy,  I've  no  more  blame  for  you.  The  vials  of  my  anger  are  poured 
out.  Months  ago  I  said  '  I  shall  always  be  your  friend.'  '  Go  the  straight 
way  ! '  I  said.  And  I  believed  you  would.  What  a  collapse  if  I  must  say 
to  you,  to-night,  only  this  word — the  very  sound  of  it,  connected  with  you, 
is  vulgar  and  repulsive — -'  If  you  should  get  into  any  scrape,  you  know,  and 
I  can  help  you,  come  to  me.  I  will  help  you.  Right  and  left  I  will  help 
you.     I  will  see  you  through.'  .  .  . 

But  only  to  say — that  ! 

Nancy  ! — with  deep  regard  and  real  affection, 

Clement  Ashton. 

Post-script.  But  I  can't  end  like  this.  Just  when  you  want  to  be 
reproached  the  least,  some  of  my  sentences  sound  hard.  Be  hopeful !  For, 
as  it  seems  to  me,  whatever  happened,  the  quite  irreparable  has  not  happened. 
Surely,  surely,  you  can  forget,  for  ever,  one  mad  hour !  And,  from  whatever 
point,  you  can  begin  '  the  journey  homeward  ' — to  yourself.  You  can  be  the 
real  You  again  ;  the  real  Nancy — your  very  characteristic,  the  perfection  of 
the  contrast  between  the  wildness  of  the  theatre  and  your  happy  quietude. 

So  at  home  I  must  think  of  you.  With  that  golden  wig,  that  adds — 
piquantly  perhaps  and  yet  abominably — to  your  years,  the  maddening  dancer 
is  put  off.  The  brown-haired  child,  in  the  plain  dress,  is  in  her  place — the  short 
brown  hair,  the  quiet  eyes,  the  tender,  sensitive  mouth.  Your  lodging-house 
parlour  is  ornamented  with  a  play-bill,  and  photographs  are  stuck  about  the 
mantelpiece — Miss  Marie  Dainton,  is  it?  and  your  uncle,  the  plumber;  and, 
again,  a  celebrity  of  the  Halls  ;  and  somebody  else,  who  was  nice  to  you, 
a  year  ago,  at  Weymouth  ;  some  comrade  you  were  fond  of :  '  She's  a  dear 
girl,'  you  said.  In  the  lodging-house  parlour  your  mother  sits  beside  the  fire- 
place, combing  out  the  golden  wig,  after  its  last  night's  service.  The  kettle, 
in  preparation  for  tea-time,  not  far  off,  is  at  the  side  of  the  fire.  It  begins  to 
sing.  You,  Nancy,  sit  beyond  the  table,  on  a  cane-bottomed  chair  ;  with  your 
knees  crossed — as  I  saw  you  that  first  time  I  called  on  you  in  London — your 
hands,  so  young,  so  nervous,  and  so  highly  bred,  smooth  out  upon  your  lap  a 
bit  of  wool-work  that  you — whose  instinct  is  to  please  and  to  be  pleasant — 


108  THE   SAVOY 

are  doing  for  your  landlady.  And,  in  the  glow  of  the  fender,  lies  curled  up, 
warm  and  sleeping,  that  gray  kitten  rescued  from  misery,  four  days  before,  by 
you  :  won  to  you  by  your  magnetism,  or  your  kindness — they  are  both  the 
same.  In  the  morning,  when  your  mother  leaves  your  bed — leaves  the  tired 
child,  worn  out  by  the  theatre,  to  an  hour's  extra  resting — the  soft  gray  thing, 
that  you  bewitched  and  cared  for,  creeps  to  your  side — is  happy. 

Did  they  ever  teach  you,  at  your  school,  I  wonder,  verses  of  Wordsworth 
on  the  stock-dove  ?     What  did  the  stock-dove  sing  ? 

He  sang  of  love  with  quiet  blending, 
Slow  to  begin,  and  never  ending  ; 
Of  serious  faith,  and  inward  glee. 
That  was  the  song — the  song  for  me  ! 

Nancy  ! — the  spirit  of  the  stock-dove's  song  lies  in  the  deepest  heart  of  Nancy 

Nanson. 

C.  A. 

[There  was  reason  to  apprehend  that  the  Correspondence  closed  with  this  letter.  One 
other  note,  however — in  the  round  hand  of  Miss  Nanson — has  been  discovered,  and  is 
therefore  appended.] 

Great  Coram  Street. 
Thank  you  so  very,  very  much — and  for  not  asking  any  exact  questions, 
too.     I  was  a  fool.     Some  one  behaved  badly  to  me.     No  doubt  I  '  compro- 
mised '  myself.     I  was  on  deep  waters.     But  I  did  not  go  under.     No,  Mr. 
Ashton. 

You  have  been  rather  cross  with  me — but  I  was  very  troublesome.     You 
understand  the  curious  mixture  that  signs  herself — and  is — 

Your  grateful 

Nancy. 

Frederick  Wedmore. 


TWO    POEMS    CONCERNING 
PEASANT    VISIONARIES 

A   CRADLE   SONG 


HE  faery  children  laugh  in  cradles  of  wrought  gold, 
And  clap  their  hands  together,  and  half  close  their  eyes, 
For  winds  will  bear  them  gently  when  the  eagle  flies, 
With  heavy  whitening  wings,  and  a  heart  fallen  cold  : 
I  kiss  my  wailing  child  and  press  it  to  my  breast, 
And  hear  the  narrow  graves  calling  my  child  and  me 

Desolate  winds  that  cry  over  the  wandering  sea ; 

Desolate  winds  that  hover  in  the  flaming  West ; 

Desolate  winds  that  beat  the  doors  of  Heaven,  and  beat 

The  doors  of  Hell,  and  blow  there  many  a  whimpering  ghost  ; 

And  heart  the  winds  have  shaken  ;  the  unappeasable  host 

Is  comelier  than  candles  before  Maurya's  feet. 


"THE    VALLEY    OF    THE    BLACK    PIG" 

The  Irish  peasantry  have  for  generations  comforted  themselves,  in  their  misfortunes,  with 
visions  of  a  great  battle,  to  be  fought  in  a  mysterious  valley  called,  "The  Valley  of  the 
Black  Pig,"  and  to  break  at  last  the  power  of  their  enemies.  A  few  years  ago,  in  the 
barony  of  Lisadell,  in  county  Sligo,  an  old  man  would  fall  entranced  upon  the  ground  from 
time  to  time,  and  rave  out  a  description  of  the  battle  ;  and  I  have  myself  heard  said  that  the 
girths  shall  rot  from  the  bellies  of  the  horses,  because  of  the  few  men  that  shall  come  alive 
out  of  the  valley. 

HE  dew  drops  slowly  ;  the  dreams  gather :  unknown  spears 
Suddenly  hurtle  before  my  dream-awakened  eyes  ; 
And  then  the  clash  of  fallen  horsemen,  and  the  cries 
Of  unknown  perishing  armies  beat  about  my  ears. 
We,  who  are  labouring  by  the  cromlech  on  the  shore, 
The  gray  cairn  on  the  hill,  when  day  sinks  drowned  in  dew, 

Being  weary  of  the  world's  empires,  bow  down  to  you, 

Master  of  the  still  stars,  and  of  the  flaming  door. 

W.  B.  Yeats. 


The  Rape  of  the  Lock 

by 

Aubrey  Beardsley 


PAUL    VERLAINE 

i 

A    FIRST   SIGHT    OF    VERLAINE 

HREE  years  ago  my  thoughts  were  a  good  deal  occupied  by 
the  theories  and  experiments  which  a  section  of  the  younger 
French  poets  were  engaged  upon.  In  this  country,  the 
Symbolists  and  Decadents  of  Paris  had  been  laughed  at 
and  parodied,  but,  with  the  exception  of  Mr.  Arthur  Symons, 
no  English  critic  had  given  their  tentatives  any  serious 
attention.  I  became  much  interested — not  wholly  converted,  certainly,  but 
considerably  impressed — as  I  studied,  not  what  was  said  about  them  by  their 
enemies,  but  what  they  wrote  themselves.  Among  them  all,  there  was  but 
one,  M.  Mallarme,  whom  I  knew  personally ;  him  I  had  met,  more  than 
twenty  years  before,  carrying  the  vast  folio  of  his  Manet-Poe  through  the 
length  and  breadth  of  London,  disappointed  but  not  discouraged.  I  learned 
that  there  were  certain  haunts  where  these  later  Decadents  might  be  observed 
in  large  numbers,  drawn  together  by  the  gregarious  attraction  of  verse.  I 
determined  to  haunt  that  neighbourhood  with  a  butterfly-net,  and  see  what 
delicate  creatures  with  powdery  wings  I  could  catch.  And,  above  all,  was  it 
not  understood  that  that  vaster  lepidopter,  that  giant  hawk-moth,  Paul 
Verlaine,  uncoiled  his  proboscis  in  the  same  absinthe-corollas  ? 

Timidity,  doubtless,  would  have  brought  the  scheme  to  naught,  if,  un- 
folding it  to  Mr.  Henry  Harland,  who  knows  his  Paris  like  the  palm  of  his 
hand,  he  had  not,  with  enthusiastic  kindness,  offered  to  become  my  cicerone. 
He  was  far  from  sharing  my  interest  in  the  Symbolo-decadent  movement, 
and  the  ideas  of  the  "  poetes  abscons  comme  la  lune  "  left  him  a  little  cold, 
yet  he  entered  at  once  into  the  sport  of  the  idea.  To  race  up  and  down  the 
Boulevard  St.  Michel,  catching  live  poets  in  shoals,  what  a  charming  game ! 
So,  with  a  beating  heart  and  under  this  gallant  guidance,  I  started  on  a 
beautiful  April  morning  to  try  my  luck  as  an  entomologist.  This  is  not 
the  occasion  to  speak  of  the  butterflies  which  we  successfully  captured  during 
this  and  the  following  days  and  nights  ;  the  expedition  was  a  great  success. 


ii4  THE   SAVOY 

But,  all  the  time,  the  hope  of  capturing  that  really  substantial  moth,  Verlaine, 
was  uppermost,  and  this  is  how  it  was  realized. 

As  everyone  knows,  the  broad  Boulevard  St.  Michel  runs  almost  due  south 
from  the  Palais  de  Justice  to  the  Gardens  of  the  Luxembourg.  Through  the 
greater  part  of  its  course,  it  is  principally  (so  it  strikes  one)  composed  of  restau- 
rants and  brasseries,  rather  dull  in  the  day-time,  excessively  blazing  and  gay  at 
night.  To  the  critical  entomologist  the  eastern  side  of  this  street  is  known  as 
the  chief,  indeed  almost  the  only  habitat  of  poeta  symbolans,  which,  however, 
occurs  here  in  vast  numbers.  Each  of  the  leaders  of  a  school  has  his  particular 
cafe,  where  he  is  to  be  found  at  an  hour  and  in  a  chair  known  to  the  habituis 
of  the  place.  So  Dryden  sat  at  Will's  and  Addison  at  Button's,  when 
chocolate  and  ratafia,  I  suppose,  took  the  place  of  absinthe.  M.  Jean  Moreas 
sits  in  great  circumstance  at  the  Restaurant  d'Harcourt — or  he  did  three  years 
ago — and  there  I  enjoyed  much  surprising  and  stimulating  conversation.  But 
Verlaine — where  was  he?  At  his  cafe,  the  Francois-Premier,  we  were  told 
that  he  had  not  been  seen  for  four  days.  "  There  is  a  letter  for  him — he  must 
be  ill,"  said  Madame  ;  and  we  felt  what  the  tiger-hunter  feels  when  the  tiger 
has  gone  to  visit  a  friend  in  another  valley.     But  to  persist  is  to  succeed. 

The  last  of  three  days  devoted  to  this  fascinating  sport  had  arrived.  I 
had  seen  Symbolists  and  Decadents  to  my  heart's  content.  I  had  learned 
that  Victor  Hugo  was  not  a  poet  at  all,  and  that  M.  Viele-Griffin  was  a 
splendid  bard  ;  I  had  discovered  that  neither  Victor  Hugo  nor  M.  Viele-Griffin 
had  a  spark  of  talent,  but  that  M.  Charles  Morice  was  the  real  Simon  Pure. 
I  had  heard  a  great  many  conflicting  opinions  stated  without  hesitation  and 
with  a  delightful  violence  ;  I  had  heard  a  great  many  verses  recited  which  I 
did  not  understand  because  I  was  a  foreigner,  and  could  not  have  understood 
if  I  had  been  a  Frenchman.  I  had  quaffed  a  number  of  highly  indigestible 
drinks,  and  had  enjoyed  myself  very  much.  But  I  had  not  seen  Verlaine, 
and  poor  Mr.  Harland  was  in  despair.  We  invited  some  of  the  poets  to  dine 
with  us  that  night  (this  is  the  etiquette  of  the  "  Boul'  Mich'  ")  at  the  Restaurant 
d'Harcourt,  and  a  very  entertaining  meal  we  had.  M.  Moreas  was  in  the 
chair,  and  a  poetess  with  a  charming  name  decorated  us  all  with  sprays  of  the 
narcissus poeticus.  I  suppose  that  the  company  was  what  is  called  "a  little 
mixed,"  but  I  am  sure  it  was  very  lyrical.  I  had  the  honour  of  giving  my 
arm  to  a  most  amiable  lady,  the  Queen  of  Golconda,  whose  precise  rank 
among  the  crowned  heads  of  Europe  is,  I  am  afraid,  but  vaguely  determined. 
The  dinner  was  simple,  but  distinctly  good  ;  the  chairman  was  in  magnificent 
form,  un  vrai  chef  d'ecole,  and  between  each  of  the  courses  somebody  intoned 


PAUL    VERLAINE  115 

his  own  verses  at  the  top  of  his  voice.  The  windows  were  wide  open  on  to 
the  Boulevard,  but  there  was  no  public  expression  of  surprise. 

It  was  all  excessively  amusing,  but  deep  down  in  my  consciousness, 
tolling  like  a  little  bell,  there  continued  to  sound  the  words, "We  haven't  seen 
Verlaine."  I  confessed  as  much  at  last  to  the  sovereign  of  Golconda,  and  she 
was  graciously  pleased  to  say  that  she  would  make  a  great  effort.  She  was  kind 
enough,  I  believe,  to  send  out  a  sort  of  search-party.  Meanwhile,  we  adjourned 
to  another  cafe,  to  drink  other  things,  and  our  company  grew  like  a  rolling 
snowball.  I  was  losing  all  hope,  and  we  were  descending  the  Boulevard,  our 
faces  set  for  home  ;  the  Queen  of  Golconda  was  hanging  heavily  on  my  arm, 
and  having  formed  a  flattering  misconception  as  to  my  age,  was  warning  me 
against  the  temptations  of  Paris,  when  two  more  poets,  a  male  and  a  female, 
most  amiably  hurried  to  meet  us  with  the  intoxicating  news  that  Verlaine  had 
been  seen  to  dart  into  a  little  place  called  the  Cafe  Soleil  d'Or.  Thither  we 
accordingly  hied,  buoyed  up  by  hope,  and  our  party,  now  containing  a  dozen 
persons  (all  poets),  rushed  into  an  almost  empty  drinking-shop.  But  no 
Verlaine  was  to  be  seen.  M.  Moreas  then  collected  us  round  a  table,  and  fresh 
grenadines  were  ordered. 

Where  I  sat,  by  the  elbow  of  M.  Moreas,  I  was  opposite  an  open  door, 
absolutely  dark,  leading  down,  by  oblique  stairs,  to  a  cellar.  As  I  idly  watched 
this  square  of  blackness  I  suddenly  saw  some  ghostly  shape  fluttering  at  the 
bottom  of  it.  It  took  the  form  of  a  strange  bald  head,  bobbing  close  to  the 
ground.  Although  it  was  so  dim  and  vague,  an  idea  crossed  my  mind.  Not 
daring  to  speak,  I  touched  M.  Moreas,  and  so  drew  his  attention  to  it.  "  Pas 
un  mot,  pas  un  geste,  Monsieur ! "  he  whispered,  and  then,  instructed  in  the 
guile  of  his  race,  insidias  Danauni,  the  eminent  author  of  "  Les  Cantilenes  " 
rose,  making  a  vague  detour  towards  the  street,  and  then  plunged  at  the  cellar 
door.  There  was  a  prolonged  scuffle  and  a  rolling  down  stairs  ;  then  M.  Moreas 
re-appeared,  triumphant ;  behind  him  something  flopped  up  out  of  the  darkness 
like  an  owl, — a  timid  shambling  figure  in  a  soft  black  hat,  with  jerking  hands, 
and  it  peeped  with  intention  to  disappear  again.  But  there  were  cries  of 
"  Venez  done,  Maitre,"  and  by-and-by  Verlaine  was  persuaded  to  emerge 
definitely  and  to  sit  by  me. 

I  had  been  prepared  for  strange  eccentricities  of  garb,  but  he  was  very 
decently  dressed  ;  he  referred  at  once  to  the  fact,  and  explained  that  this  was 
the  suit  which  had  been  bought  for  him  to  lecture  in,  in  Belgium.  He  was 
particularly  proud  of  a  real  white  shirt ;  "  C'est  ma  chemise  de  conference," 
he  said,  and  shot  out  the  cuffs  of  it  with  pardonable  pride.     He  was  full  of  his 


n6  THE   SAVOY 

experiences  of  Belgium,  and  in  particular  he  said  some  very  pretty  things 
about  Bruges  and  its  beguinages,  and  how  much  he  should  like  to  spend  the 
rest  of  his  life  there.  Yet  it  seemed  less  the  mediaeval  buildings  which  had 
attracted  him  than  a  museum  of  old  lace.  He  spoke  with  a  veiled  utterance, 
difficult  for  me  to  follow.  Not  for  an  instant  would  he  take  off  his  hat,  so  that 
I  could  not  see  the  Socratic  dome  of  forehead  which  figures  in  all  the  caricatures. 
I  thought  his  countenance  very  Chinese,  and  I  may  perhaps  say  here  that  when 
he  was  in  London  in  1894  I  called  him  a  Chinese  philosopher.  He  replied  : 
"  Chinois — comme  vous  voulez,  mais  philosophe — non  pas  ! " 

On  this  first  occasion  (April  2,   1893),  recitations  were  called   for,  and 
Verlaine  repeated  his  "  Clair  de  Lune  "  : 

"  Votre  ame  est  un  paysage  choisi 

Que  vont  charmant  masques  et  bergamasques 
Jouant  du  Iuth  et  dansant  et  quasi 

Tristes  sous  leurs  deguisements  fantasques." 

He  recited  in  a  low  voice,  without  gesticulation,  very  delicately.  Then 
M.  Moreas,  in  exactly  the  opposite  manner,  with  roarings  of  a  bull  and  with 
modulated  sawings  of  the  air  with  his  hand,  intoned  an  eclogue  addressed  by 
himself  to  Verlaine  as  "  Tityre."  And  so  the  exciting  evening  closed,  the 
passionate  shepherd  in  question  presently  disappearing  again  down  those 
mysterious  stairs.  And  we,  out  into  the  soft  April  night  and  the  budding 
smell  of  the  trees. 

Edmund  Gosse. 


PAUL    VERLAINE  117 

II 
VERLAINE    IN    1894 

In  the  spring  of  1894  I  received  a  note  in  English,  inviting  me  to  "coffee 
and  cigarettes  plentifully,"  and  signed  "  yours  quite  cheerfully,  Paul  Verlaine." 
I  found  him  in  a  little  room  at  the  top  of  a  tenement  house  in  the  Rue 
St.  Jacques,  sitting  in  an  easy  chair,  with  his  bad  leg  swaddled  in  many 
bandages.  He  asked  me,  and  in  English,  for  I  had  explained  the  poverty  of 
my  French,  if  I  knew  Paris  well,  and  added,  pointing  to  his  leg,  that  it  had 
"  scorched  "  his  leg,  for  he  knew  it  "  well,  too  well,"  and  lived  in  it  like  "  a  fly 
in  a  pot  of  marmalade  ; "  and  taking  up  an  English  dictionary,  one  of  the  very 
few  books  in  his  room,  began  searching  for  the  name  of  the  disease,  selecting, 
after  much  labour,  and  with,  I  understand,  imperfect  accuracy,  "erysipelas." 
Meanwhile,  his  homely  and  middle-aged  mistress,  who  had  been  busy  when  I 
came,  in  dusting,  or  in  some  other  housewife  fashion,  had  found  the  cigarettes, 
and  made  excellent  coffee.  She  had  obviously  given  the  room  most  of  its 
character :  her  canary  birds,  of  which  there  were  several  cages,  kept  up  an  in- 
termittent tumult  in  the  open  window,  and  her  sentimental  chromolithographs 
scattered  themselves  among  the  nude  drawings,  and  the  caricatures  of  himself 
as  a  monkey,  which  M.  Verlaine  had  torn  out  of  the  papers  and  pinned  against 
the  wall.  She  handed  me  a  match  to  light  my  cigarette,  with  the  remark,  in 
English,  "  A  bad  match,  a  French  match,"  and  I  saw  by  the  way  her  face  lighted 
up  when  my  reply, "  They  have  the  best  matches  in  England,  but  you  have  the 
best  poets,"  was  translated  to  her,  that  she  was  proud  of  her  ungainly  lover. 
While  we  were  drinking  our  coffee  she  drew  a  box  towards  the  fire  for  a  singular 
visitor,  a  man,  who  was  nicknamed  Louis  XL,  M.  Verlaine  explained,  because  of 
a  close  resemblance,  and  who  had  not  shaved  for  a  week,  and  kept  his  trousers  on 
with  a  belt  of  string  or  thin  rope,  and  wore  an  opera  hat,  which  he  set  upon  his 
knee,  and  kept  shoving  up  and  down  continually  while  M.  Verlaine  talked. 
M.  Verlaine  talked  of  Shakespeare,  whom  he  admired,  with  the  reservations  of 
his  article  in  the  "  Fortnightly  "  ;  of  Maeterlinck,  who  was  "  a  dear  good  fellow," 
but  in  his  work  "  a  little  bit  of  a  mountebank  "  ;  of  Hugo,  who  was  "  a  volcano 
of  mud  as  well  as  of  flame,"  but  always,  though  "  not  good  enough  for  the 
young  messieurs,"  a  supreme  poet ;  and  of  Villiers  de  l'lsle  Adam,  who  was 
"  exalte,"  but  wrote  "  the  most  excellent  French,,"  and  whose  "  Axel  "  he  inter- 
preted, and  somewhat  narrowly,  as  I  could  but  think,  as  meaning  that  love 


u8  THE   SAVOY 

was  the  only  important  thing  in  the  world  ;  and  of  "  In  Memoriam,"  which  he 
had  tried  to  translate  and  could  not,  because  "  Tennyson  was  too  noble,  too 
Anglais,  and  when  he  should  have  been  broken-hearted  had  many  re- 
miniscences." 

No  matter  what  he  talked  of,  there  was  in  his  voice,  in  his  face,  or  in  his 
words,  something  of  the  "voluminous  tenderness  "  which  Mr.  Bain  has  called, 
I  believe,  "  the  basis  of  all  immorality,"  and  of  the  joyous  serenity  and  un- 
troubled perception  of  those  who  commune  with  spiritual  ideas.  One  felt 
always  that  he  was  a  great  temperament,  the  servant  of  a  great  daimon,  and 
fancied,  as  one  listened  to  his  vehement  sentences  that  his  temperament,  his 
daimon,  had  been  made  uncontrollable  that  he  might  live  the  life  needful  for 
its  perfect  expression  in  art,  and  yet  escape  the  bonfire.  To  remember  him  is  to 
understand  the  futility  of  writing  and  thinking,  as  we  commonly  do,  as  if  the 
ideal  world  were  the  perfection  of  ours,  a  blossom  rooted  in  our  clay  ;  and  of 
being  content  to  measure  those  who  announce  its  commandments  and  its  beauty 
by  their  obedience  to  our  laws  ;  and  of  missing  the  wisdom  of  the  Hebrew  saying, 
"  He  who  sees  Jehovah  dies."  The  ideal  world,  when  it  opens  its  fountains, 
dissolves  by  its  mysterious  excitement  in  this  man  sanity,  which  is  but  the  art 
of  understanding  the  mechanical  world,  and  in  this  man  morality,  which  is  but 
the  art  of  living  there  with  comfort ;  and,  seeing  this,  we  grow  angry  and 
forget  that  the  Incarnation  has  none  the  less  need  of  our  reverence  because  it 
has  taken  place  in  a  manger  of  the  dim  passions,  or  bring  perhaps  our 
frankincense  and  myrrh  in  secret,  lest  a  little  truth  madden  our  world. 

W.  B.  Yeats. 


PAUL    VERLAINE  119 


III 
MY   VISIT    TO    LONDON 

(November,  1893) 

On  the  19th  of  November  last,  at  nine  in  the  evening,  I  took  the  train  at 
the  Gare  Saint-Lazare  for  Dieppe-Newhaven.  On  reaching  Dieppe,  I  found 
the  buffet  crammed  with  travellers,  who  had  been  kept  by  the  bad  weather 
from  taking  the  preceding  boats.  The  boat  corresponding  with  my  train  was 
equally  unable  to  put  out  to  sea,  on  account  of  a  storm  which  had  already 
lasted  twenty-four  hours,  and  was  to  last,  with  redoubled  violence,  till  the  next 
evening.  So  there  was  nothing  for  it  but,  in  company  with  a  good  hundred 
people,  to  spend  part  of  the  night  on  a  bench,  till  the  worthy  host  (to  whom 
thanks,  and  thanks  again  !)  made  me  the  offer,  not  indeed  of  a  room,  but  of  a 
sofa  in  the  dining-room  of  his  hotel  opposite  the  station,  and  I  was  thus 
enabled,  if  not  to  sleep  with  much  comfort,  at  all  events  to  take  a  little  rest,  to 
the  accompaniment  of  the  boom  of  the  sea,  which  reminded  me  of  the  too 
Parisian  uproar  and  the  cannonade  of  September,  1870,  to  January,  1871.  All 
the  next  day  a  diluvian  rain  fell,  and  I  consumed  the  time  in  dejeuners,  lunches, 
and  dinners,  aperitifs,  coffees,  and  cigars,  at  the  said  buffet.  Of  Dieppe  I  saw 
no  more  than  the  whitish  cliffs  against  an  iron-gray  sky,  across  the  lances  as 
of  a  mass  of  armed  men — 

"  les  lances  de  l'averse  " — 

the  terrible  downpour,  under  which  the  sea,  gradually  calming,  growled  like 
a  gorged  beast,  still  terribly,  with  a  ravenous  delight,  one  might  have  said, 
for  many  fishing-boats,  alas !  had  gone  down,  and  were  still  going  down,  with 
all  hands  on  board,  in  the  harbour  and  out  at  sea. 

At  last,  on  the  20th  of  November,  at  nine  in  the  evening,  there  was  some 
talk  of  setting  out,  and,  hobbling  along  as  fast  as  I  could,  I  managed  to 
secure  half  a  berth  in  the  second-class  cabin.  When  the  bell  had  sounded  for 
the  last  time,  and  the  great  white  chimney,  like  a  vast  phantom  in  the  opaque 
night,  had  uttered  its  lugubrious  shriek,  I  felt,  after  some  minutes  of  uneasy 
motion  in  port,  a  prodigious  pitching  of  the  vessel,  then  a  quite  sufficient 
rolling,  stupefying  at  first  by  their  continuity  and  their  almost  rhythmical 
regularity,  and  becoming  a  literal  rocking  to  sleep,  at  least  as  far  as  I  was 

II 


120  THE   SAVOY 

concerned,  fatigued  as  I  already  was  by  a  sleepless  night,  or  all  but,  and  a  day 
of  interminable  boredom.  And  there  was  something,  too,  in  the  immensity 
of  the  "  caress,"  not  unpleasing  to  a  poet,  and  I  made  a  little  poem  about  it 
not  long  afterwards,  which  is  to  appear  some  day  in  an  English  paper.1  Any- 
way, I  slept  the  sleep  of  the  just  during  the  whole  passage,  and  never  opened 
my  eyes  till  within  sight  of  Xewhaven,  when,  the  sea  being  now  quite  calm,  the 
boat  glided  along  without  needing  to  turn  on  steam,  and  the  very  lull  and 
comparative  silence  awoke  me  as  pleasantly  as  possible.  When  I  reached 
London  at  two  in  the  morning,  and  had  a  quarter  of  an  hour's  drive  to  the 
Temple,  in  the  fine  moonlight,  the  wind  quite  bracing,  I  felt  already  the  good 
effect  of  what  was  really  one  of  the  best  crossings  I  had  ever  had.  London, 
so  impressive  as  one  passes  its  superb  buildings  from  the  formidable  Thames 
towards  Westminster,  the  rich,  elegant  London  between  Victoria  Station 
and  the  Strand,  seemed  to  me  that  night  exquisite,  delicate,  almost  dainty — 
luminous. 

At  the  Temple  awaited  me  the  poet  Arthur  Symons,  who  (as,  afterwards, 
Herbert  Home,  poet  himself,  and  architect)  was  to  give  me  a  charming  hos- 
pitality. He  had  been  to  look  for  me  three  or  four  times  in  vain  at  Victoria 
Station,  and,  imagining  after  these  fruitless  errands  that  I  should  not  come 
till  night,  he  had  waited  up  for  me,  and  came  to  welcome  me  at  the  very  door 
of  the  house  which  he  inhabits  in  that  vast  caravanserai  of  the  Law — and  of 
Silence.  (For  how  exquisite  a  corner  of  London,  in  which  there  are  so  many 
exquisite  and  infamous  corners,  so  few  common  or  vulgar !)  My  host  led  me 
up  into  his  charming  little  flat,  from  which,  next  day.  I  was  to  have  one  of  the 
most  ravishing  and  peaceful  views,  in  the  exceptionally  fine  weather,  as  if 
made  on  purpose  for  the  traveller,  which  bathed  the  London  sky  and  the 
whole  aspect  of  the  immense  city  of  pale  rose  and  pearl  gray.  Blithe  birds, 
blackbirds  even,  on  the  infinitely  twisted  branches  of  those  beautiful,  immense 
English  trees ;  to  the  left,  in  a  paved  and  grassy  angle,  regular  to  the  point 
of  being  beautiful,  in  its  way,  the  fountain,  which  gives  its  name  to  the  spot 
'Fountain  Court),  with  its  babbling  jet  of  water.  But  for  the  moment  I  was 
hungry,  fagged  out  by  those  hours  of  vehement  sea ;  and  Symons,  following 
my  example,  ate — while  we  talked,  for  two  good  hours,  about  everything  under 
the  sun,  Paris,  poetry,  money  too  (poets  think  of  nothing  else  .  .  .  and  with 
reason  !),  my  future  lectures — an  entire  box,  one  of  those  long,  tall,  tin  boxes, 
of  tea-biscuits,  "  muffins  "  in  English,2  washed  down  with  plenty  of  "  gin  and 

1  It  appeared  in  the  "  New  Review." — Ed.  "  Savoy." 

2  They  were  Osborne  biscuits. — Ed.  "  Savoy." 


PAUL    VERLAINE  121 

soda,"  '  and  perfumed  with  vague  cigarettes.     And  it  was,  I  assure  you,  one 
of  the  best  and  gayest  meals  I  ever  had  in  my  life ! 

But  I  had  not  come  to  London  merely  as  a  tourist.  The  very  date  of 
my  arrival  is  sufficient  evidence  to  the  contrary.  I  had  to  give  two  con- 
ferences, or  rather  two  lectures,  as  they  say,  more  justly,  more  simply,  and 
more  modestly,  in  English :  one  at  London,  the  other,  on  the  following  day, 
at  Oxford.  The  London  one  was  to  take  place  next  day  (or  rather  the  very 
day  of  my  archi-matutinal  arrival)  at  8.30  P.M.,  at  a  hall  in  Holborn,  of  which 
I  shall  have  something  to  say  in  a  few  moments. 

Our  conversation,  much  against  our  will,  finally  came  to  an  end,  in  spite 
of  its  twofold  interest,  intellectual  and  gastronomic,  for  "the. Sandman,"  as 
Hoffmann  says,  "  Madame  la  Poussiere,"  as  they  say  in  my  mother's  country, 
Arras,  to  represent  sleep,  had  passed,  and  a  well-deserved  repose  parted  us 
until  eleven,  when  the  very  sympathetic  journalist,  Mr.  Edmund  Gosse,  came 
to  take  us  out  to  lunch  in  a  sumptuous  restaurant  near  by,  where  my  forces 
were  sufficiently  recuperated  to  enable  me  to  put  the  finishing  touches  to  my 
causerie  for  the  evening.  I  say  nothing  of  many  other  visits,  among  which  I 
remember  those  of  William  Heinemann,  the  great  publisher,  Home,  Rothen- 
stein,  whom  I  had  met  the  summer  before,  and  who  had  sketched,  in  the 
Hopital  Broussais,  a  portrait  of  me  which  has  since  appeared  in  the  "  Pall 
Mall  Budget,"  Lane,  the  publisher  of  "  les  Jeunes,"  and  others  whose  names 
I  forget. 

The  evening  came,  and  our  little  band,  after  a  dinner  a  la  francaise,  not 
less  copious  than  the  morning's  lunch,  set  out,  in  a  confusion  of  vehicles, 
towards  the  spot  where  I  was  to  speak  of  "  Contemporary  French  Poets."  It 
was,  as  I  have  said,  in  Holborn,  the  long,  immemorial  street  of  the  venerable 
capital.  I  knew  London  long  since,  and  I  remembered  to  have  seen,  in 
Holborn,  almost  at  the  intersection  formed  by  the  Viaduct,  a  row  of  some 
dozen  houses,  as  picturesque  as  could  be,  and  extremely  old,  dating  from  at 
least  the  time  of  Elizabeth.  I  was  not  so  very  much  surprised,  guided  as  I 
was  by  artists  and  poets,  to  find  myself,  after  passing  through  indefinite 
corridors,  in  an  extraordinary  hall,  very  ancient,  of  a  sort  of  rustic  Gothic — 
there  is  a  little  too  much  Gothic  among  our  neighbours  (and  yet  even  their 
modern  Gothic  is  so  charming !)  as,  among  us,  there  is  an  outrageous  deal  too 
much  Roman,  and  what  not !  in  architecture — but  the  Gothic  of  Barnard's  Inn 
is  sincere,  natural,  and  marvellous  in  its  simplicity.  There  is  some  talk  of 
pulling  down  this  intimate  remnant  of  the  end  of  the  Middle  Ages.  (Barnard's 
1  There  was  no  soda. — -Ed.  "  Savoy." 


122  THE   SAVOY 

Inn  formerly  served  for  corporative  meetings  and  ceremonies.)  In  our  days 
the  hall  is  used  for  private  exhibitions,  and  the  artists  protest  vigorously 
against  this  act  of  vandalism.  If  the  voice  of  a  humble  stranger  can  be  heard 
in  this  most  reasonable  hue  and  cry,  here  is  mine,  and  loudly. 

In  front  of  me  was  a  platform,  where,  behind  a  bare  table  of  oak,  lit  by 
an  old  bronze  lamp,  rose  an  armchair  of  oak,  also  bare,  and  of  colossal 
proportions,  in  which  there  was  room  enough  for  even  the  ventripotent 
syndics  of  old  "  merry  England." 

I,  "  chetif  trouvere  de  Paris,"  intimidated  by  the  imposing  place,  and  the 
rude,  majestic  furniture,  but  encouraged  by  the  numerous  and  very  select 
audience,  installed  myself  as  best  I  could  in  the  immense  chair,  at  the 
immense  table,  and  unfolding  a  roll  of  notes,  expressed  myself  much  as 
follows  : 

"  Ladies  and  Gentlemen,  I  should  be  unworthy  of  the  title  of  poet — of  the 
glorious,  and  sorrowful,  and  thereby  the  more  glorious,  name  of  poet — if  I  were 
to  forget  that  I  speak  here  in  the  country  which  is  par  excellence  that  of 
poetry.  Some  acquaintance  (alas !  but  imperfect),  with  your  language,  and 
necessarily  incomplete  readings  in  that  language,  have  taught  me  modesty, 
Frenchman  as  I  am — and  modesty  is  not  specially  the  portion  of  us 
Frenchmen — in  regard  to  this  as  to  many  other  truths.  Thus  it  is  not 
without  timidity  that  I  ask  for  the  indulgence  of  this  picked  audience. 

"  Nevertheless  I  shall  venture,  since  I  have  been  so  graciously  invited,  to 
attempt  here  the  most  difficult  of  all  endeavours,  and,  asking  forgiveness  for 
not  doing  it  in  English,  the  English  which  a  great  writer  of  ours,  Barbey 
d'Aurevilly,  declared  was  evidently  the  idiom  spoken  at  the  beginning  of  the 
world  by  our  grandmother  Eve,  I  begin. 

"  I  am  not  wanting  in  experience  of  lectures.  Last  year  I  went  to 
Holland  and  to  Belgium,  where  I  met  with  some  success.  Quite  lately  I 
visited  Nancy  and  Luneville,  and  I  was  touched  at  receiving  so  warm  a 
welcome  from  my  compatriots,  for  I  belong  to  that  part  of  the  country, 
I  was  born  at  Metz,.and  it  was  here  in  London,  in  1872,  that  I  declared  for 
the  French  nationality. 

"  But  under  the  present  circumstances,  I  cannot  repeat  too  often,  I  expe- 
rience a  quite  special  kind  of  emotion,  and  I  would  specially  ask  your  kind 
attention. 

"  May  I  merit  it ! 

"  I  shall  speak,  too,  during  these  few  moments,  so  flattering  and  so 
formidable  for  me,  of  things  of  which  I   have  some  knowledge,  for  I  have 


PAUL    VERLAINE  123 

taken  part  in  them  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  I  allude  to  contemporary 
French  poetry. 

"  I  do  not  intend,  be  assured,  to  recapitulate  the  whole  history  of  the  poetic 
evolution  of  the  present  time  :  Romanticism,  the  Parnasse  contemporain, 
itself  an  output  of  Romanticism,  an  advanced  Romanticism  in  which  thun- 
dered the  formidable  verse  of  Leconte  de  Lisle,  flickered  and  tinkled  that  of 
Theodore  de  Banville,  while  that  of  Baudelaire  sighed  and  shone  like  a  corpse- 
candle — revered  and  venerated  trinity,  from  whom,  undoubtedly,  proceeded 
the  first  works  of  a  generation  already  ripe,  very  ripe,  too  ripe,  think  and  say 
some  impatient  ones  among  us  ;  a  generation  to  which  I  belong,  to  which 
Stephanc  Mallarme  belongs,  and  others  also,  whose  talent  has  retained  the 
impress  of  the  past,  not  without  some  necessary  modifications  (doubtless  for  the 
better)  which  time  brings  with  it  in  its  passing. 

"  I  give  here  only  the  name  of  Mallarme,  who,  along  with  myself,  was  most 
in  sympathy  with  those  younger  men  about  whom  I  intend  to  speak.  It 
was  about  the  year  1881  that  the  various  tendencies  of  the  new  'batch' 
of  poets  began  to  make  themselves  felt,  tendencies  confirmed  by  a  most  often 
happy  audacity,  and  a  true  love  of  letters.  I  do  not  always  agree  with  them  ; 
I  should  raise  many  objections  to  the  vers  litre,  for  example,  and  the  rime 
litre,  preached  and  practised  by  these  latest  friends  of  mine.  But  what  merits, 
already,  and  rightly,  noised  abroad,  are  there  not  in  Jean  Moreas  in  particular, 
at  once  the  courageous,  the  indefatigable  critic,  and  the  protagonist  of  his  work, 
still  constantly  under  discussion,  so  to  speak.  It  was  at  first  pure  Romanticism, 
without  a  shadow  of  resemblance  to  the  Parnasse  contemporain,  then  it  adopted 
Symbolism,  in  whose  definition  of  itself  he  was  not  slow  to  recognize  the 
insufficiency,  and  which  he  replaced  by  the  Ecole  Romane,  gathering  about  him, 
with  a  well-merited  pride,  men  of  such  fine  talents,  original  within  even 
the  limits  of  the  accepted  poetic  discipline,  as  Ernest  Raynaud,  Maurice 
du  Plessys,  and,  more  recently,  Raymond  de  la  Tailhede. 

"  In  addition  to  the  '  Romans,'  for,  in  spite  of  all,  the  name  has  had  to  be 
recognized,  there  is  an  independent  ph'iade  of  poets,  powerful  or  charming, 
each  seeking  a  way  of  his  own,  and  the  most  having  found  it ;  some  fervent 
adepts,  others  sceptical  partisans,  it  would  seem,  of  that  vers  litre  which,  once 
and  for  all,  I  am  by  no  means  too  fond  of.  Others,  again,  hold  by  verse  pure 
and  simple,  verse  as  I  have  known  and  used  it,  with  yet  others  who  are 
legion. 

"  Undoubtedly  the  most  remarkable  among  these  is  Laurent  Tailhade, 
at  once  subtle  and  mystical,  and  so  terribly  and  so  stingingly  mc'chant.     It  is 


124  THE   SAVOY 

certainly  well  to  be  among  his  friends  ;  as  for  his  literary  enemies,  they  can  be 
but  the  foolish  or  the  ignorant.  I  am  infinitely  fond  of  his  books  of  pure 
beauty,  but  I  confess  I  have  a  weakness  for  An  Pays  du  Mufle,  which  might 
be  rendered  in  English,  imperfectly  enough,  by  In  the  Country  of  the  Snob  : 
that  formidable  farrago  of  violence  and  of  irony,  in  which  the  ferocity  of  the 
subject-matter  corresponds,  in  some  sort,  with  a  certain  ferocity  of  the  form,  a 
form  at  once  learned  and  amusing,  furiously  yet  quite  intelligibly  archaic. 
Next  follow  Paul  Verola  ;  Henri  de  Regnier  ;  Viele-Griffin,  Stuart  Merrill, 
both  of  Anglo-Saxon  origin,  but  brought  up  mainly  in  France  ;  Adolphe 
Rette  ;  Edouard  Dubus  ;  George  Suzanne  ;  Dauphin  Meunier  ;  all  remark- 
able in  their  different  degrees,  and  of  an  assured  future.  I  am  not  mentioning 
names  at  random,  be  sure,  for,  if  I  desired  to  be  interminable,  I  easily  could  be, 
so  many  young  poets  are  there  in  these  days  of  surrounding  materialism  and 
rationalism,  whose  extent,  however,  is  perhaps  somewhat  exaggerated.  Many 
of  these  will  renounce  the  fray,  and  honourably  re-enter  the  ordinary  intellec- 
tual life.  As  for  those  I  have  named,  never !  and  so  much  the  better  for  all 
of  us. 

"  These  poets,  I  repeat,  are  independent  of  one  another.  The  '  Romans,' 
of  whom  I  have  just  spoken,  form,  on  the  contrary,  a  group  to  themselves, 
and,  whatever  may  be  the  very  real  originality,  on  which  I  have  but  now 
insisted,  of  one  and  another  among  them,  taken  separately,  they  follow  a 
common  principle,  which  is,  to  go  straight  back  to  the  origin  of  the  French 
language,  which,  it  is  well  known,  comes  of  Gallo-Roman  stock.  But  is 
'  Roman  '  really  the  word  ?  I  doubt  it ;  indeed,  I  deny  it.  The  Roman  is 
still  Latin,  liturgical  Latin,  in  my  opinion,  of  the  time  of  the  Roman 
basilicas  ;  and  I  do  not  quite  understand,  on  the  part  of  the  poets  in  question, 
the  leap  from  this  time  to  that  of  Ronsard,  whose  idiom,  whose  rhythm, 
whose  very  tricks,  are  a  good  deal  too  much  borrowed  by  these  amiable,  and, 
at  their  moments,  admirable  poets.  They  have  science  (a  little  at  random, 
for  they  are  young)  ;  they  have  music,  or  at  least  almost  all  the  four  who  form 
the  group  ;  they  have  faith,  and,  above  all,  good  faith.  They  have  all  that,  I 
admit  willingly,  gladly,  indeed,  on  behalf  of  my  art  which  they  honour,  my 
country  which  they  adorn  ;  but,  but,  though  that  is  enough  to  be  or  to 
become  a  perfect  artist,  is  it  enough  to  become  an  incontestable  poet  ?  Perhaps 
not  ;  unkind  as  it  may  seem  to  suggest  the  doubt. 

"  But  life  is  hard,  as  it  is  essentially  uncertain,  obscure;  indecisive,  complex  ; 
and  again  charming,  smiling,  friendly,  simple,  when  it  wills.  And  in  order  to 
be  a  poet,  it  seems  to  me,  one  must  live  much,  and  remember  much.     Alfred 


PAUL    VERLAINE  125 

de  Musset  has  said  that  infinitely  better  than  I  could  possibly  say  it,  and  he 
has  left  a  living  work,  the  typical  living  work,  though,  indeed,  he  has  not  put 
all  of  himself  into  it.  He  had  his  reasons,  which  were,  in  the  main,  that  he 
chose  to  do  as  he  did  ;  but  he  might,  perhaps  he  should,  have  done  more. 
In  spite  of  all,  he  remains  a  great  poet.  An  artist  ?  yes,  a  hundred  times,  yes. 
A  perfect  artist  ?  No  ;  for  life,  felt  and  rendered,  even  well,  even  admirably 
felt  and  rendered,  is  not  all  which  that  task  requires.  You  must  work,  you 
must  work  like  a  labourer  ;  and  that  these  '  Roman'  poets  undoubtedly  do. 

"  So,  it  seems  to  me,  the  poet  should  be  absolutely  sincere,  but  absolutely 
conscientious  as  a  writer  ;  hiding  nothing  of  himself,  but  employing,  in  the 
expression  of  this  frankness,  all  needful  dignity,  and  a  care  of  that  dignity 
which  should  manifest  itself  in,  if  not  the  perfection  of  form,  at  all  events  an 
invisible,  insensible,  but  effective  endeavour  after  this  lofty  and  severe  quality  ; 
I  was  about  to  say,  this  virtue. 

"  A  poet  (alas  !  only  myself)  has  essayed  this  undertaking  ;  very  probably 
he  has  failed,  but  certainly  he  has  done  his  best  to  acquit  himself  honourably. 

"  I  began,  in  1867,  with  '  Poemes  Saturniens,'  a  youthful  affair,  marked  by- 
imitations  to  right  and  left :  Hugo,  Gautier,  Baudelaire,  Banville.  In  addition, 
thanks  to  a  mistaken  taste  for  Leconte  de  Lisle,  I  was  an  impassible,  '  im- 
pas-si-ble,'  as  the  word  was  pronounced  then  in  the  Passage  Choiseul  and  on 
the  Boulevard  des  Batignolles. 

" '  Pauvre  gens  !  l'Art  n'est  pas  d'e'parpiller  son  ame  : 
Est-elle  en  marbre  ou  non,  la  Ve'nus  de  .Milo  ? ; 

I  exclaimed,  in  an  epilogue  that  I  considered  for  some  time  as  the  cream  of 
aesthetics  ;  and  I  added,  in  a  sonnet  which  was  excluded  from  this  first  collec- 
tion through  lack  of  space  rather  than  lack  of  taste,  that  the  only  just  and 
great  man  is  he  who 

'  S'e'ternise  dans  un  e'goisme  de  marbre.' 

This  verse,  I  may  remark  in  parentheses,  is  one  of  my  first,  if  not  the  very 
first,  in  this  form.  I  was  to  go  to  much  greater  lengths  in  these  audacities. 
Others  outstep  me  :  why  should  I  cry  halt  to  them  ?  I  shall  never  cease  to 
say,  and  to  say  again  and  again  :  I  applaud,  but  for  my  part  I  hold  back,  and  I 
applaud,  even,  with  reservation.  Sometimes  I  am  inclined  to  reproach  myself 
with  having  let  loose  the  storm,  but  it  is  too  late  for  me  to  oppose  it  now.  A 
Quos  ego  on  my  part  would  seem  ridiculous,  and  I  am  now  but  the  old  sea- 
man, a  little  weary,  but  never  tired  of  heroism  ('  Comme  un  buffle  se  cabre, 
aspirant  la  tempete,'  Stephane  Mallarme,  my  old  comrade  in  dangers,  has 


126  THE   SAVOY 

written  superbly),  who  assists,  just  a  little  sceptical,  but  imperceptibly,  imper- 
turbably,  at  the  efforts  of  younger  'Jack  Tars,'  to  whom  I  wish  good  luck  and 
the  happiness  of  seeing  them  return  victorious  from  the  fray. 

"  Paulo  minora  canamus.  I  return  to  myself  and  my  debuts.  At  present 
the  verses  quoted  above,  and  the  theories  attached  to  them,  seem  to  me 
puerile  ;  decent  enough  as  verse,  and  thereby  the  more  puerile. 

"  However,  the  man  who  lived  beneath  the  very  young,  the  somewhat 
pedantical  young  man,  whom  I  then  was,  sometimes,  indeed  often,  lifted  the 
mask,  and  expressed  himself  in  various  little  poems,  not  without  tender- 
ness, such  as : 

'MON    REVE    FAMILIER 

'  Je  fais  souvent  ce  reve  etrange  et  penetrant 
D'une  femme  inconnue,  et  que  j'aime,  et  qui  nv'aime, 
Et  qui  n'est,  chaque  fois,  ni  tout  a  fait  la  meme 
Ni  tout  a  fait  une  autre,  et  m'aime  et  me  comprend. 

'  Car  elle  me  comprend,  et  mon  coeur,  transparent 
Pour  elle  seule,  helas  !  cesse  d'etre  un  probleme 
Pour  elle  seule,  et  les  moiteurs  de  mon  front  bleme 
Elle  seule  les  sait  rafraichir,  en  pleurant. 

'Est-elle  brune,  blonde  ou  rousse? — Je  l'ignore. 
Son  nom  ?    Je  me  souviens  qu'il  est  doux  et  sonore 
Comme  ceux  des  aimes  que  la  Vie  exila. 

'  Son  regard  est  pareil  au  regard  des  statues, 

Et,  pour  sa  voix,  lointaine,  et  calme,  et  grave,  elle  a 

L'inflexion  des  voix  cheres  qui  se  sont  tues.' 


'CHANSON    D'AUTOMNE 

'  Les  sanglots  longs 
Des  violons 

De  l'automne 
Blessent  mon  cceur 
D'une  langueur 

Monotone. 

'Tout  suffocant 
Et  bleme  quand 

Sonne  l'heure, 
Je  me  souviens 
Des  jours  anciens 

Et  je  pieure  ; 


PAUL    VERLATNE  127 

'  Et  je  m'en  vais 
Au  vent  mauvais 

Qui  m'emporte 
De  ga,  de  la, 
Pareil  a  la 

Feuille  morte.' 

"  These  verses,  among  many  others,  gave  evidence  of  a  certain  inclination 
towards  a  half-sensual,  half-dreamy  melancholy,  confirmed,  a  year  later,  more 
agreeably,  perhaps,  in  any  case  with  more  mastery  and  more  deliberate 
intention,  by  the  verses  (costumed  after  the  personages  of  the  Italian  comedy 
and  the  fancy  pieces  of  Watteau)  contained  in  the  little  volume,  not  badly 
received  from  the  first,  the  '  Fetes  Galantes.'  It  is  not  difficult  to  find  among 
these  some  piquant  notes  of  velvety  sharpness  and  of  sly  malice. 

'CREPUSCULE   DU   SOIR 

'  Les  hauts  talons  luttaient  avec  les  longues  jupes, 
En  sorte  que,  selon  le  terrain  et  le  vent, 
Parfois  luisaient  des  bas  de  jambe,  trop  souvent 
Intercepte's  ! — et  nous  aimions  ce  jeu  de  dupes. 

'  Parfois  aussi  le  dard  d:un  insecle  jaloux 
Inquietait  le  col  des  belles  sous  les  branches, 
Et  c'etaient  des  eclairs  soudains  de  nuques  blanches 
Et  ce  r^gal  comblait  nos  jeunes  yeux  de  fous. 

'  Le  soir  tombait,  un  soir  Equivoque  d'automne  : 

Les  belles,  se  pendant  reveuses  a  nos  bras 

Dirent  alors  des  mots  si  spdcieux,  tout  bas, 

Que  notre  ame  depuis  ce  temps  tremble  et  s'&onne.'' 


'LE    FAUNE 

'  Un  vieux  faune  de  terre  cuite 
Rit  au  centre  des  boulingrins, 
Pre'sageant  sans  doute  une  fuite 
Mauvaise  a  ces  instants  sereins 

'  Qui  m'ont  conduit  et  t'ont  conduite, 
Melancholiques  pe"lerins, 
Jusqu'a  cette  heure  dont  la  fuite 
Toumoie  au  son  des  tambourins.1 

"  A  quite  other  music  is  heard  in  '  La  Bonne  Chanson,'  really  a  wedding- 
present,  literally  speaking,  for  the  tiny  volume  appeared  on  the  occasion  of  a 
marriage  which  was  going  to  take  place,  and  which  took  place  in  1S70.     The 


128  THE   SAVOY 

author  values  it  as  perhaps  the  most  natural  of  his  works.  Indeed,  it  was 
Art,  violent  or  delicate,  which  had  affected  to  reign,  almost  exclusively,  in 
his  former  works,  and  it  was  only  from  then  that  it  was  possible  to  trace  in 
him  true  and  simple  views  concerning  nature,  physical  and  moral. 

t       'SERENADE 

'  La  lune  blanche 
Luit  dans  les  bois  ; 
De  chaque  branche 
Part  une  voix 
Sous  la  ramee  .  .  . 

O  bien-aimee. 

'  L'&ang  reflete, 

Profond  miroir, 

La  silhouette 

De  saule  noir 

Ou  le  vent  pleure  .  .  . 

R6vons,  c'est  l'heure. 

'  Un  vaste  et  tendre 
Apaisement 
Semble  descendre 
Du  firmament 
Que  l'astre  irise  .  .  . 

C'est  l'heure  exquise.' 

"  Life  had  its  way,  and  distress  soon  came,  not  without  his  own  fault,  to  the 
household  of  the  poet,  who  suddenly  threw  up  everything,  and  went  wandering 
in  search  of  unsatisfying  distractions.  On  the  other  hand,  I  will  not  say 
remorse  (he  did  not  experience  it,  for  he  repented  of  nothing),  but  vexation 
and  regret,  with  certain  consolations,  compensations  rather,  inspired  him  in 
his  third  collection,  '  Romances  sans  Paroles,'  thus  named  in  order  to  express 
the  real  vagueness  and  the  want  of  precise  meaning  which  were  part  of  his 
intention. 

'SPLEEN 

'  O  triste,  triste  dtait  mon  ame 
A  cause,  a  cause  d'une  femme. 

'Je  ne  me  suis  pas  console', 
Bien  que  mon  cceur  s'en  soit  alle, 

'  Bien  que  mon  coeur,  bien  que  mon  ame 
Eussent  fui  loin  de  cette  femme. 


PAUL    VERLAINE  129 

'Je  ne  me  suis  pas  console", 
Bien  que  mon  cceur  s'en  soit  alld 

'  Et  mon  cceur,  mon  coeur  trop  sensible 
Dit  a  mon  ame  :  Est-il  possible, 

'  Est-il  possible, — le  fut-il, — 
Ce  fier  exil,  ce  triste  exil  ? 

'  Mon  ame  dit  a  mon  cceur  :  Sais-je 
Moi-meme  que  nous  veut  ce  piege 

'  D'etre  presents  bien  qu'exile's, 
Encore  que  loin  en  alles  ? ' 


'GREEN 

'  Voici  des  fruits,  des  fleurs,  des  feuilles  et  des  branches, 
Et  puis  voici  mon  cceur,  qui  ne  bat  que  pour  vous  : 
Ne  le  dechirez  pas  avec  vos  deux  mains  blanches 
Et  qu'a  vos  yeux  si  beaux  l'humble  present  soit  doux. 

'  J'arrive  tout  couvert  encore  de  rosee 
Que  le  vent  du  matin  vient  glacer  a  mon  front. 
Souffrez  que  ma  fatigue,  a  vos  pieds  repose'e, 
Reve  des  chers  instants  qui  la  d^lasseront. 

'  Sur  votre  jeune  sein  laisser  rouler  ma  tete 
Toute  sonore  encor  de  vos  derniers  baisers  ; 
Laissez-la  s'apaiser  de  la  bonne  tempete, 
Et  que  je  dorme  un  peu  puisque  vous  reposez.' 

"  A  serious  catastrophe  interrupted  these  factitious  pains  and  pleasures. 
He  exaggerated  it  indeed  to  the  point  of  writing  these  lines  : 

'Un  grand  sommeil  noir 
Tombe  sur  ma  vie  : 
Dormez,  tout  espoir, 
Dormez,  toute  envie. 

'Je  ne  sais  plus  rien, 
Je  perds  la  memoire 
Du  mal  et  du  bien  .  .  . 
O  la  triste  histoire  ! 

'Je  suis  un  berceau 
Qu'une  main  balance 
Au  creux  dun  caveau  : 
Silence,  silence  ! ' 


i3o  THE  SAVOY 

"  Then  a  divine  resignation  (still,  to  his  thinking,  divine)  came  over  him, 
and  inspired  in  him  many  mystical  poems  of  the  purest  Catholicism,  such  as 
this,  which  marks  a  new  era  in  poetry,  and  may  stand  for  the  motto  of  his  life 
during  many  years  : 

'  Beaute  des  femmes,  leur  faiblesse,  et  ces  mains  pales 

Qui  font  souvent  le  bien  et  peuvent  tout  le  mal, 

Et  ces  yeux,  ou  plus  rien  ne  reste  d'animal 

Que  juste  assez  pour  dire  :  'assez'  aux  fureurs  males, 

'  Et  toujours,  maternelle  endormeuses  des  rales, 
Meme  quand  elle  ment,  cette  voix  !  Matinal 
Appel,  ou  chant  bien  doux  a  vepre,  ou  frais  signal, 
Ou  beau  sanglot  qui  va  mourir  au  pli  des  chiles  !  .  .  . 

'  Hommes  durs  !    Vie  atroce  et  laide  d'ici-bas  ! 
Ah  !  que  du  moins,  loin  des  baisers  et  des  combats, 
Quelque  chose  demeure  un  peu  sur  la  montagne, 

'  Quelque  chose  du  coeur  enfantin  et  subtil, 

Bonte,  respect  !     Car  qu'est-ce  qui  nous  accompagne, 

Et  vraiment,  quand  la  mort  viendra,  que  reste-t-il  ? ' 


'  Ecoutez  la  chanson  bien  douce 
Qui  ne  pleure  que  pour  vous  plaire. 
Elle  est  discrete,  elle  est  legere  : 
Un  frisson  d'eau  sur  de  la  mousse  ! 

'  La  voix  vous  fut  connue  (et  chere  ?), 
Mais  a  present  elle  est  voilee 
Comme  une  veuve  desolee, 
Pourtant  comme  elle  encore  fiere  ; 

'  Et,  dans  les  longs  plis  de  son  voile 
Qui  palpite  au  brises  d'automne, 
Cache  et  montre  au  cceur  qui  s'etonne 
La  verite'  comme  une  etoile. 

'  Elle  dit,  la  voix  reconnue, 
Que  la  bonte'  c'est  notre  vie, 
Que  de  la  haine  et  de  l'envie 
Rien  ne  reste,  la  mort  venue. 

'  Elle  parle  aussi  de  la  gloire 
D'etre  simple  sans  plus  attendre. 
Et  de  noces  d'or  et  du  tendre 
Bonheur  d'une  paix  sans  victoire. 


PAUL    VERLAINE  131 

'Accueillez  la  voix  qui  persiste 
Dans  son  naif  epithalanie. 
Allez,  rien  n'est  meilleur  a  l'ame 
Que  de  faire  une  ame  moins  triste  ! 

'  Elle  est  en  peine  et  de  passage, 
L'ame  qui  souffre  sans  colere, 
Et  comme  sa  morale  est  claire  !  .  .  .  . 
Ecoutez  la  chanson  bien  sage.' 

"Then,  weary  of  men  and  women, of  their  baseness  and  frailty,  and  weary 
of  himself,  the  poet  turned  to  God  : 

'  O  mon  Dieu,  vous  m'avez  blesse  d'amour 

Et  la  blessure  est  encor  vibrante, 

O  mon  Dieu,  vous  m'avez  blesse  d'amour. 

'O  mon  Dieu,  votre  crainte  m'a  frappe, 
Et  la  brulure  est  encor  la  qui  tonne, 
O  mon  Dieu,  votre  crainte  m'a  frappe. 

'O  mon  Dieu,  j'ai  connu  que  tout  est  vil 
Et  votre  gloire  en  moi  s'est  installee, 
O  mon  Dieu,  j'ai  connu  que  tout  est  vil. 

'  Noyez  mon  arhe  aux  flots  de  votre  Vin, 
Fondez  ma  vie  au  Pain  de  votre  table, 
Noyez  mon  cceur  aux  flots  de  votre  Vin. 

'  Voici  mon  sang  que  je  n'ai  pas  verse, 
Voici  ma  chair  indigne  de  souffrance, 
Voici  mon  sang  que  je  n'ai  pas  verse. 

'Voici  mon  front  qui  n'a  pu  que  rougir, 
Pour  l'escabeau  de  vos  pieds  adorables, 
Voici  mon  front  qui  n'a  pu  que  rougir. 

'  Voici  mes  mains  qui  n'ont  pas  travaille, 
Pour  les  charbons  ardents  et  l'encens  rare  l 
Voici  mes  mains  qui  n'ont  pas  travaille. 

'Voici  mon  cceur  qui  n'a  battu  qu'en  vain, 
Pour  palpiter  aux  ronces  du  Calvaire, 
Voici  mon  cceur  qui  n'a  battu  qu'en  vain. 

'  Voici  mes  pieds,  frivoles  voyageurs, 
Pour  accourir  au  cri  de  votre  grace, 
Voici  mes  pieds,  frivoles  voyageurs. 

'Voici  ma  voix,  bruit  maussade  et  menteur, 
Pour  les  reproches  de  la  Penitence, 
Voici  ma  voix,  bruit  maussade  et  menteur. 

1  "Ascendit  fumus  aromatum  in  conspectu  Domini  de  manu  angeli." 


1 32  THE   SAVOY 

'Voici  mes  yeux,  luminaires  d'erreur, 
Pour  etre  eteints  aux  pleurs  de  la  priere, 
Voici  mes  yeux,  luminaires  d'erreur. 

'  Helas  !  Yous,  Dieu  d'offrande  et  de  pardon, 
Quel  est  le  puits  de  mon  ingratitude, 
Helas  !  Vous,  Dieu  d'offrande  et  de  pardon, 

'  Dieu  de  terreur  et  Dieu  de  saintete, 
Helas  !  ce  noir  abime  de  mon  crime, 
Dieu  de  terreur  et  Dieu  de  saintete, 

'Vous,  Dieu  de  paix,  de  joie  et  de  bonheur, 
Toutes  mes  peurs,  toutes  mes  ignorances, 
Vous  Dieu  de  paix,  de  joie  et  de  bonheur, 

'  Vous  connaissez  tout  cela,  tout  cela, 
Et  que  je  suis  plus  pauvre  que  personne, 
Vous  connaissez  tout  cela,  tout  cela, 

'  Mais  ce  que  j'ai,  mon  Dieu,  je  vous  le  donne.' 

(Stickney,  1875.) 

"  Then,  as  it  was  bound  to  happen,  overstrained  humanity  resumed,  or 
seemed  to  resume,  its  rights,  or  its  fancied  rights  ;  whence  a  series  of  volumes, 
'  Chansons  pour  Elle,'  '  Odes  en  son  Honneur,'  '  Elegies,'  in  which  the  new 
affections  were  celebrated  in  appropriate  measures.  Trouble  returned  under 
other  forms :  there  are  so  many,  and  the  sharpest  of  them  all  is  sickness.  It 
was  under  this  dominion  that  the  poet  made  a  certain  return  upon  himself, 
and,  putting  an  end  or  a  pause  to  his  recent  lucubrations,  resumed  at  times  the 
sadness  and  serenity  of  '  Sagesse,'  '  Amour,'  and  '  Bonheur,'  not  without  an 
echo,  but  a  rigorously  diminished  echo,  of  the  sinful  chants  of '  Parallelement,' 
the  most  sensual,  the  most  reprehensible,  if  you  will,  of  his  books.  Here  is  a 
last  poem,  which,  at  all  events,  will  carry  me  somewhat  further  back  towards 
the  '  Fetes  Galantes '  (and  then  I  shall  have  the  honour  of  thanking  you  for 
your  gracious  attention),  though  my  next  volume,  '  Varia,'  shortly  to  appear, 
will  give  evidence  rather  of  the  philosophic  and  serious  side  of  what  people 
are  pleased  to  term  my  talent : 

'IMPRESSION    DE   PRINTEMPS 

'  II  est  des  jours,  avez  vous  remarque1  ? 
Oil  Ton  se  sent  plus  leger  qu'un  oiseau, 
Plus  jeune  qu'un  enfant,  et  vrai,  plus  gai 
Que  la  meme  gaiete  d'un  damoiseau. 


PAUL    VERLAINE  1 33 

'  On  se  souvient  sans  bien  se  rappeler  .  .  . 
Evidemment  Ton  reve  et  non  pourtant. 
L'on  semble  nager  et  Ton  croirait  voler. 
L'on  aime  ardemment  sans  aimer  cependant, 

1  Tant  est  leger  le  cceur  sous  le  ciel  clair 
Et  tant  Ton  va,  sur  de  soi,  plein  de  foi 
Dans  les  autres  que  l'on  trompe  avec  l'air 
D'etre  plutot  trompe  gentiment,  soi. 

'  La  vie  est  bonne  et  l'on  voudrait  mourir 
Bien  que  n'ayant  pas  peur  du  lendemain. 
Un  desir  indecis  s'en  vient  fleurir, 
Dirait-on,  au  coeur  plus  et  moins  qu'humain. 

'  Helas  1  faut-il  que  meure  ce  bonheur? 
Meurent  plutot  la  vie  et  son  tourment  ! 
O  dieux  elements,  gardez-moi  du  malheur 
D'a  jamais  perdre  un  moment  si  charmant.' 

{May,  1893.) 

"  Since  the  course  of  my  causerie,  and  the  tone  of  its  development,  have 
led  me  to  end  with  these  lines  : 

'  O  dieux  elements,  gardez-moi  du  malheur 
D'a  jamais  perdre  un  moment  si  charmant,' 

I  take  the  opportunity  of  making  them  the  transition  to  my  '  last  word,'  or 
rather  of  ending  with  them.  Thanks,  then,  once  more,  ladies  and  gentlemen, 
for  the  delicious  hour  in  which  I  have  felt  your  sympathy  about  me,  as  I 
have  spoken  of  my  own  country  in  a  country  I  so  greatly  love  and  admire,  of 
things  and  men  dear  and  precious  to  me  ;  thanks  for  the  attention  you  have 
given  to  the  words  of  a  guest,  for  whom  this  evening  will  remain  memorable 
and  honourable  among  all  the  hours  of  a  life  which  has  all  been  devoted  to 
the  cause  of  letters." 

The  English  press,  both  London  and  provincial,  was,  on  the  whole, 
favourable  to  me,  and  I  would  here  offer  my  best  "  shake-hand  "  to  the  staff 
of  many  papers,  particularly  the  "Times,"  the  "  Pall  Mall  Gazette,"  the  "Star" 
(which,  I  may  add  in  parentheses,  has  published  a  portrait  of  me  in  which  I 
trace  more  resemblance  to  my  friend  the  excellent  Breton  poet,  Le  Goffic),  the 
"  St.  James's  Gazette,"  the  "  Liverpool  Post,"  the  "  Manchester  Guardian,"  the 
"  Sketch,"  etc.,  to  all  of  which  my  warmest  gratitude  is  due.  Certain  articles, 
intended  to  give  more  precise  information,  require  perhaps  a  few  corrections. 
But  what  difference  will  any  contradictions,  any  improbablities,  on  my 
account,  puzzling  to  posterity  as  they  are  likely  to  be,  what  harm  will  they 


134  THE   SAVOY 

do   to   my  good   or  bad    reputation   a   thousand   years   from   now?     What 
real  harm  ? 

Next  day  I  was  off  to  Oxford,  where  I  lunched  with  my  friend 
Rothenstein,  in  company  with  the  distinguished  professor,  York  Powell,  and 
a  French  poet,  M.  Bonnier,  long  since  settled  in  England,  an  ideal  com- 
panion, full  of  stories  and  recollections.  Then,  with  the  aid  of  hansoms,  we 
were  able  to  see  some  of  the  town,  deliciously  dainty,  almost  rustic,  in  its 
commercial  quarters,  tiny  shops  as  it  were  illuminated  with  cheap  confec- 
tionaries,  and  goods  of  popular  sorts,  sweets  for  little  people  and  little  purses  ; 
sweet  little  houses,  little  gardens  full  of  rest,  trees  showing  their  last  red  leaves 
above  the  red,  comfortable,  flat  roofs,  somewhat  like  the  proper  and  modest 
little  streets  of  Boston,  of  which  I  have  spoken  in  another  paper ;  and 
unique  in  its  mediaeval  majesty,  its  buildings,  colleges,  churches,  of  the  good 
period  (I  refer  neither  to  our  century,  nor  to  the  two  centuries  and  a  half 
before  it). 

My  lecture  took  place  in  a  hall,  situated  at  the  end  of  a  labyrinth  of 
rooms  crammed  with  books,  an  ancient  hall,  with  an  arched  roof  of  stone  and 
wood,  severely  furnished,  where,  under  the  presidency  of  Professor  Powell,  I 
gave  once  more,  with  such  change  as  the  place  demanded,  the  lecture  which  I 
had  given  the  previous  night,  before  an  audience  mainly  of  students,  most  of 
them  in  the  historic  dress  of  the  university,  a  black  robe,  short  or  long, 
according  to  the  "  degree,"  and  completed,  out  of  doors,  by  the  traditional  flat 
square  cap,  which  gives  to  them,  as  to  their  professors,  a  half  clerical,  half 
magisterial  air,  well  in  keeping  with  those  faces,  grave  with  the  majesty  of 
young  or  matured  learning,  and  all  friendly  and  welcoming  with  smile  or 
greeting. 

On  my  return  to  London,  I  spent  a  few  days  in  seeing  the  city  which  I 
once  knew  so  well,  and  which  I  found,  at  all  events  in  its  purely  "  con- 
tinental "  quarter,  much  changed,  and  much  to  its  advantage,  from  the  point  of 
view,  somewhat  narrow  perhaps,  of  an  old  Parisian  ;  and  all  this  did  but 
increase  my  long  and  profoundly  felt  sympathy  for  a  city  which  I  have 
praised  so  often  for  its  force,  its  splendour,  its  infinite  charm,  too,  in  fine 
weather  and  foul,  and  which  I  am  forced,  in  all  good  faith,  to  praise  now  for 
its  charm  of  the  moment,  and  a  limitless  hospitality,  the  understanding  of 
tastes,  the  forgiveness  of  shortcomings,  the  appreciation  of  merits,  of  defects 
even  :  I  do  but  speak,  be  sure,  of  elegant,  respectable  defects. 

Early  in  December  I  set  out  for  Manchester,  leaving  by  the  admirable 
station  of  St.  Pancras,  all  brick,  marble,  pointed  arches  and  bell-towers,  which 


PAUL    VEKLAINE  135 

was  in  course  of  building  at  the  time  of  my  first  visit  to  London  in  1873  : 
1873  to  1894,  a  good  age  for  an  "old  dog  !  " 

This  town,  proverbially  a  business  town,  black  and  splendid,  a  larger 
Lyons,  struck  me  as  being  all  swathed  in  smoke,  with  open  promenades  by 
the  side  of  a  very  low-lying  river.  I  only  saw  Salford,  which  forms  half  of 
the  rival  of  Liverpool,  and  my  visit,  as  at  Oxford,  only  lasted  twenty-four  hours. 
I  was  received  by  Mr.  Theodore  C.  London,  a  young  clergyman  of  the 
Congregational  Church,  and  by  his  sister  and  brother,  a  lad  of  eighteen  or 
nineteen,  all  more  friendly  one  than  another.  A  friend  of  Mr.  London,  a 
charming  young  man,  professor  at  the  Grammar  School,  M.  Emile  Bally,  a 
Swiss  from  Geneva,  who,  naturally,  spoke  French  as  his  mother  tongue,  and 
English  with  absolute  perfection,  came  to  see  us  during  the  day.  Both 
were  steeped  in  literature  to  the  finger-tips,  and  ardent  admirers  of  poetry, 
and  it  was  they  who  looked  after  the  lecture  which  I  had  been  invited  to 
give.  I  had  a  most  sympathetic  audience  for  my  speechifying,  which  was 
similar  to  those  I  had  already  given.  I  was  well  aware  that  Manchester, 
apart  from  its  immense  industrial  importance,  formed  an  important  intel- 
lectual and  artistic  centre.  If  I  had  had  the  time,  I  should  have  made  some 
endeavour  to  get  a  sight  of  a  large  picture  which  had  attracted  deserved 
attention  at  the  Salon  of  1872.  The  picture  was  signed  Fantin-Latour ; 
the  title,  "Coin  de  Table";  the  persons,  Leon  Valade,  Camille  Pelletan, 
Ernest  d'Hervilly,  Jean  Aicard,  Arthur  Rimbaud, — and  your  humble  servant. 

Then,  all  too  soon,  the  time  came  for  me  to  leave  England,  and,  after 
some  days  of  delightful  dawdling  through  a  London  of  theatres  (a  very  fairy- 
land !),  music-halls  (a  very  paradise !),  of  good  and  excellent  visits  received 
and  returned  ;  after  having  shaken  so  many  really  friendly  hands,  William 
Heinemann,  William  Rothenstein,  A.  Symons,  H.  Home,  H.  Harland, 
E.  Gosse,  Image,  Lane,  Frank  Harris,  the  sympathetic  editor  of  the  "  Fort- 
nightly," I  embarked  once  more,  this  time  on  a  sea  as  still  as  glass,  happy, 
certainly,  at  the  thought  of  seeing  France  again,  but  very  happy,  too,  at  the 
thought  of  so  agreeable  a  visit  and  of  such  good  and  enduring  memories! 

Paul  Verlaine. 

(Translated  by  Arthur  Symons.) 


The  Dive 

A  Lithograph  by 
Charles  H.  Shannon 


. 


J 

1 

n 

* 

■n^TT"' 

A 

r^% 

- 



THE   LOVE   OF    THE    POOR 


PERSONAGES. 

The  Old  Man. 

The  Old  Woman. 

The  Soul  of  their  Dead  Child. 

SCENE. —  The  interior  of  a  small  cottage,   almost  devoid  of  furniture. 
chairs  drawn  tip  to  a  fireless  grate.     Time  :  twilight. 

The  Old  Woman  enters,  walking  feebly,  carrying  a  few  twigs. 
The  Old  Woman. 
AR,  far  have  I  wandered  in  my  search  for  wood. 
My  arms  are  stiff,  my  eyes  are  dim 
From  cold  and  want  of  food. 
But  soon  dear  God  will  give  us  help, 
I  know  that  God  is  good. 

The  Soul  of  the  Dead  Child.  Yes,  God  is  good. 
Tltc  Old  Woman.  My  foolish  brain  seems  all  to  reel, 


Two 


140  THE   SAVOY 

And  voices  murmur  in  my  head  ; 
I  could  have  sworn  to  baby's  voice, 
And  yet  I  know  our  babe  is  dead. 

The  Soul.  Yes,  mother,  she  is  dead. 

The  Old  Woman.  Tis  strange  how  lately  when  my  heart  has  failed, 
When  life  has  seemed  too  hard  for  folks  like  me, 
A  little  voice  has  murmured  in  my  ear, 
And  whispered  comfort  for  the  days  to  be. 

The  Soul.  Yes,  comfort  for  the  days  to  be  ; 
Such  joys  as  you  have  never  known, 
The  songs  of  all  the  angel  choir, 
The  sight  of  God  upon  His  throne. 

The  Old  Woman.  I  know  we  must  not  hope  for  joys  in  heaven, 
To  whom  on  earth  no  room  to  live  is  given. 
If  God  will  grant  me  but  His  leave  to  rest. 

The  Soul.  God  will  bestow  whatever  He  thinks  best. 

THE  Old  Man  totters  into  the  room. 

The  Old  Alan.  My  dear,  they  mocked  me  in  the  village  street, 
The  little  boys  threw  stones  and  dogged  my  feet, 
The  baker  laughed,  and  turned  me  from  his  door. 

The  Soid.  So  shall  God  turn  Him  from  his  cry  for  grace. 

The  Old  Man.  There  was  no  soul  would  give  me  resting-place. 

The  Old  Woman.  Then  we  must  die,  dear  heart, 
And  hand  in  hand 

Seek  out  the  passage  to  the  pleasant  land. 
As  we  have  lived  and  toiled,  so  let  us  die. 
I  could  not  close  my  weary  eyes, 
Unless  I  knew  you  by. 

The  Old  Alan.   [Sits  down,  and  supporting  his  head  with  both  hands,  speaks 
in  a  shrill,  weak  voice,  smiling.]  I  mind  me,  wife,  when  we  were  young 
And  green  and  fresh  as  yonder  hills, 
The  fields  and  woods  we  strolled  among 
Knew  more  of  grief  and  human  ills 
Than  we  poor  children  dreamed  or  knew, 
When  you  loved  me  and  I  loved  you. 

The  Old  Woman.  [Sitting  likewise,  and  smiling  to  herself.']  Do  you  mind, 
James,  of  one  brave  day  you  kissed  me  in  the  wheat? 


THE  LOVE   OF   THE  POOR  141 

I  was  afraid  the  folks  would  guess,  as  I  walked  up  the  street. 
I  felt  a  trembling  in  my  voice,  a  glistening  in  my  eyes. 

The  Old  Man.  I  never  yet  had  kissed  a  maid  who  showed  such  sweet 
surprise. 
And  do  you  mind  this  little  house,  when  I  brought  you  home  that  day 
They  made  us  one  within  the  church,  and  sent  us  on  our  way? 

The  Old  Woman.  The  honeysuckle  was  in  bloom  about  the  cottage  door. 
Ah !  it  was  fine  to  be  in  love,  we  cared  not  we  were  poor. 

The  Old  Man.  I  bring  to  mind  we  knelt  that  night,  and  prayed  dear  God 
to  bless ; 
And  as  we  knelt  and  prayed  to  Him,  we  wept  for  happiness. 

The  Old  Woman.  Ah  !  husband  mine,  we  were  so  young,  how  could  such 
children  tell 
God  has  no  time  to  save  the  rich  and  love  the  poor  as  well  ? 
Such  sinful,  humble  folk  as  we,  and  of  such  little  store, 
It  were  but  vain  and  proud  to  think  God  coilld  recall  us  more. 

The  Soul.  As  lilies  shining  in  the  woods  at  night, 
As  diamonds  glittering  in  a  crown, 
More  radiant  and  more  full  of  light, 
When  God  shall  bring  the  mighty  down, 
And  set  the  humble  in  their  place, 
The  suffering  poor  shall  know  His  grace. 

The  Old  Man.  [Passing  his  hands  over  his  eyes,  and  staring  doubtfully 
about  the  room.]   I  hear  a  voice  that  thrills  with  love, 
A  voice  like  the  voice  of  a  child 

The  Old  Woman.  A  voice  like  the  voice  of  our  child. 
But  she  is  an  angel  singing  above — 

[Bursting  into  tears. 
My  arms  that  ache  with  longing, 
My  eyes  that  are  lost  in  tears. 
Oh  !  child,  my  child,  come  back  to  me, 
Give  me  the  love  you  loved  with  me, 
Give  back  the  happy  years. 

Tlie  Old  Man.   Hush,  hush,  my  wife,  we  must  obey  God's  will. 
We  know  our  little  child  is  happier  on  His  breast. 
Think,  think,  my  dear,  if  she  were  with  us  still, 
She  would  be  hungry,  too.     Yes,  wife,  God's  ways  are  best. 
He  knows  that  we  can  bear  the  hunger  and  the  cold  : 


1 42  THE   SAVOY 

For  patience  comes  with  poverty,  as  comfort  to  the  old. 

The  Old  Woman.  [Still  weeping  softly.']  The  days  were  never  long  to  me, 
when  she  played  at  my  feet ; 
The  food  was  never  poor  to  me,  while  I  could  see  her  eat ; 
The  pains  seemed  never  hard  to  me  that  brought  her  from  the  womb  ; 
But  life  is  long  and  poor  and  hard  since  she  is  in  the  tomb. 

TJie  Soul.  Courage,  mother,  courage,  father,  God  is  on  your  side : 
Seek  for  help,  and  seek  it  bravely,  He  shall  be  your  guide. 

TJie  Old  Man.  A  voice  within  me  whispers,  "  Courage,  try  again." 
The  world  is  cruel,  but  not  so  cruel  as  to  delight  in  pain. 
I  will  tell  of  our  hunger,  our  age,  our  empty  grate, 
Wife,  the  world  shall  bring  you  help  before  it  is  too  late. 

[He  gets  up,  lays  his  hand  comfortingly  on  her  shoulder,  and  goes  out. 
The  room  slowly  darkens.   The  old  woman  remains  sitting  motion- 
less, sometimes  stretching  out  Jier  hands  towards  ttie  grate,  as 
though  to  warm  them. 
The  Old  Woman.  My  head  swims,  my  heart  pants,  my  hands  are  cramped 
with  cold. 
Will  one  be  warm  and  young  in  heaven,  or  always  poor  and  old  ? 
I  am  tired,  tired  of  life,  and  the  misery  that  remains  ; 
Tired  of  the  many  struggles,  tired  of  the  many  pains. 

[Her  Jiead  falls  forward  on  her  breast,  and  she  seems  to  sleep.     The 
SOUL  OF  the  Dead  Child  comes  forward,  a  shadowy  figure 
swathed  in  gray,  and  kisses  her  on  theforeliead.     Then  there  passes 
slowly  through  the  room  the  vision  of  a  woman  holding  to  her  breast 
a  young  child.     The  child  claps  its  hands,  and  laughs. 
The  Old  Woman.    [Holding  out  her  arms.']    Baby,  dear,  I  see  you,  baby, 
come  to  me. 
Baby,  mother  calls  you,  calls  you  to  her  knee. 

[  The  vision  passes  slowly  towards  her.  The  Old  Woman  laughs,  and, 
claspitig  her  arms  to  fur  breast,  rocks  backwards  and  forwards, 
and  sings  in  a  quavering  voice. 

Down  a  down,  down  a  down, 
Sleep,  sleepy  head. 
White  satin  gown 
For  baby's  warm  bed. 
Down  a  down,  down  a  down, 


THE  LOVE   OF    THE  POOR  143 

Wake  sleepy  eyes, 
Red  satin  gown 
For  baby's  surprise. 
[The  vision  passes  slowly  away.    Tlie  SOUL  OF  THE  DEAD  CHILD  once 
more  appears,  and  kisses  t/ie  Old  Woman  on  the  foreliead. 
The  Old  Woman.  [Raising  her  luad  with  a  start.]    Oh  !    how  happily  I 
dreamed. 
Baby  nestled  to  my  breast ; 
All  my  pain  and  weakness  seemed 
Turned  to  happiness  and  rest. 


The  OLD   MAN   comes  in  very  slowly,  and  going  up  to  the  OLD    WOMAN 
takes  her  Jiand  in  his. 

The  Old  Man.  My  dear,  I  cast  aside  our  pride,  my  pride  and  the  pride  of 
my  wife, 
The  pride  of  honest  workers,  honest  workers  all  our  life. 
I  went  to  the  workhouse  master,  and  I  stood  before  his  door, 
I  said  to  him,  I  am  old  and  ill,  my  wife  and  I  are  poor, 
We  have  toiled  and  saved  for  many  years,  and  saved  and  toiled  again, 
But  cruel  times  and  want  of  work  have  made  our  toil  in  vain. 
We  have  no  fire  within  our  grate,  no  food  within  our  door, 
And  I  have  come  to  beg  the  last  sad  refuge  of  the  poor. 

[He  pauses,  and  covers  his  face  with  his  hands. 
But  he  said,  I  cannot  take  you  both,  together  you  cannot  be, 
She  must  go  to  the  women's  ward,  and  you  must  remain  with  me. 

[He  throws  his  arms  round  tier,  and  breaks  into  weak,  tremulous 
sobs. 
And  I  must  leave  you,  oh,  my  wife  ! 
Through  all  this  weary,  toiling  life, 
By  night  and  day,  and  day  and  night, 
You  were  my  joy,  my  one  delight. 
As  children,  hid  among  the  wheat, 
We  kissed,  and  whispered,  love  was  sweet ; 
As  bride  and  bridegroom  in  our  bed, 
We  thanked  our  God  that  we  were  wed  : 
We  heard  our  little  girl's  first  cry, 
And  in  my  arms  you  watched  her  die  ; 


144 


THE   SAVOY 


We  wept  together  by  her  tomb. 

And  turned  to  our  childless  home. 

Our  heads  have  whitened  on  our  way, 

Our  joys  are  gone,  our  sorrows  stay. 

But  now  our  time  is  nearly  spent, 

We  may  not  sit  in  quiet  content, 

Breathe  out  in  peace  our  feeble  breath, 

Beneath  the  kindly  hand  of  Death, 

And  so,  together,  hand  in  hand, 

Journey  towards  the  happy  land.  [He  sinks  down  feebly  at  her  feet. 

The  Old  Woman.  Nay,  do  not  grieve,  my  dear,  we  will  not  part : 
No  stranger's  hand  shall  close  our  tired  eyes  ; 
Together  we  will  wait  Death's  hand  upon  our  heart, 
Together  we  will  wake  to  heaven's  glad  surprise. 

TJie  Old  Man.  [In  a  weak  voice.]  Kiss  me,  sweetheart,  the  blades  of  corn 
are  high, 
And  not  a  soul  can  see  of  all  the  passers  by. 

[He  stretches  otct  his  arms  to  her,  and  she,  leaning  forward,  kisses  him. 
A  long  silence.  Their  breathing  gets  shorter  and  shorter,  and 
finally  ceases.  The  SOUL  OF  THE  DEAD  CHILD,  coming  forward, 
closes  their  eyes  gently,  and  kisses  them  on  the  forehead. 

Leila  Macdonald. 


f 


PAGES    FROM    THE   LIFE   OF 
LUCY    NEWCOME 


i 

S  Lucy  Newcome  walked  down  the  street,  with  the  baby 
in  her  arms,  her  first  sensation  was  one  of  thankfulness,  to 
be  out  of  the  long,  blank,  monotonous  hospital,  where  she 
had  suffered  obscurely  ;  to  be  once  more  free,  and  in  the 
open  air.  How  refreshing  it  is  to  be  out  of  doors  again  !  she 
said  to  herself.  But  she  had  not  walked  many  steps  before 
the  unfamiliar  morning  air  made  her  feel  quite  light-headed  ;  for  a  moment 
she  fancied  she  was  going  to  faint ;  and  she  leant  against  the  wall,  closing 
her  eyes,  until  the  feeling  had  passed.  As  she  walked  on  again,  things  still 
seemed  a  little  dizzy  before  her  eyes,  and  she  had  to  draw  in  long  breaths,  for 
fear  that  curious  cloudy  sensation  should  come  into  her  brain  once  more.  She 
held  the  baby  carefully,  drawing  the  edges  of  the  cloak  around  its  face,  so  that 
it  should  not  feel  cold  and  wake  up.  It  was  the  first  time  she  had  carried  the 
baby  out  of  doors,  and  it  seemed  to  her  that  everyone  must  be  looking  at  her. 
She  was  not  much  afraid  of  being  recognized,  for  she  knew  that  she  had  altered 
so  much  since  her  confinement ;  and  for  that  reason  she  was  glad  to  be  looking 
so  thin  and  white  and  ill.  But  she  felt  sure  that  people  would  wonder  who  she 
was,  and  why  such  a  young  girl  was  carrying  a  baby  ;  perhaps  they  would  not 
think  it  was  hers  ;  she  might  be  only  carrying  it  for  some  married  woman. 
And  she  let  her  left  hand,  on  which  there  was  no  wedding-ring,  show  from 
under  the  shawl  in  which  it  had  been  her  first  instinct  to  envelope  it.  Many 
thoughts  came  into  her  mind,  but  in  a  dull  confused  way,  as  she  walked  slowly 
along,  feeling  the  weight  of  the  baby  dragging  at  her  arms.  At  last  they 
began  to  ache  so  much  that  she  looked  around  for  somewhere  to  sit  down. 
She  had  not  noticed  where  she  had  been  going ;  why  should  she  ?  where  was 
there  for  her  to  go  ?  and  she  found  herself  in  one  of  the  side  streets,  at  the  end 
of  which,  she  remembered,  was  the  park.  There,  at  all  events,  she  could  sit 
down  ;  and  when  she  had  found  a  seat,  she  took  the  baby  on  her  knees,  and  lay 
back  in  the  corner  with  a  sense  of  relief. 


1 48  THE  SAVOY 

At  first  she  did  not  try  to  think  of  plans  for  the  future.  She  merely 
resigned  herself,  unconsciously  enough,  to  the  vague,  peaceful,  autumn  sadness 
of  the  place  and  the  hour.  The  damp  smell  of  the  earth,  sharp  and  comforting, 
came  to  her  nostrils  ;  the  leaves,  smelling  a  little  musty,  dropped  now  and  then 
past  her  face  on  to  the  shawl  in  which  the  baby  was  wrapt.  There  was  only 
enough  breeze  to  make  a  gentle  sighing  among  the  branches  overhead  ;  and 
she  looked  up  at  the  leafy  roof  above  her,  as  she  had  looked  up  so  often  when 
a  child,  and  felt  better  for  being  there.  Gradually  her  mind  began  to  con- 
centrate itself:  what  am  I  to  do,  she  thought,  what  am  I  to  do? 

Just  then  the  little  creature  lying  on  her  knees  stirred  a  little,  and  opened 
its  blue  eyes.  She  caught  it  to  her  breast  with  kiss  after  kiss,  and  began  to 
rock  it  to  and  fro,  with  a  passionate  fondness.  "  Mammy's  little  one,"  she 
said  ;  "  all  Mammy's,  Mammy's  own  ;  "  and  began  to  croon  over  it,  with  a  sort 
of  fierce  insistence.  Yes,  she  must  do  something,  and  at  once,  for  the  child's 
sake. 

But  the  more  she  tried  to  find  some  plan  for  the  future,  the  more  hopeless 
did  the  task  seem  to  become.  There  was  her  aunt,  whom  she  would  never  go 
back  to,  whom  she  would  never  see  again  ;  never.  There  was  her  cousin,  who 
had  cast  her  off;  and  she  said  to  herself  that  she  hated  her  cousin.  All  her 
aunt's  friends  were  so  respectable :  they  would  never  look  at  her ;  and  she 
could  never  go  to  them.  Her  cousin's  friends  were  like  himself,  only  worse, 
much  worse.  No,  there  was  nowhere  for  her  to  look  for  help  ;  and  how  was 
she  to  help  herself?  She  knew  nothing  of  any  sort  of  business,  she  had  no 
showy  accomplishments  to  put  to  use  ;  and  besides,  with  a  baby,  who  would 
give  her  employment  ?  Oh,  why  had  she  ever  listened  to  her  cousin,  why  had 
she  been  such  a  fool  as  to  have  a  baby  ?  she  said  to  herself,  furiously  ;  and 
then,  feeling  the  bundle  stir  in  her  arms,  she  fell  to  hugging  and  kissing  it 
again. 

As  she  lifted  up  her  face,  a  woman  who  was  passing  half  paused,  looking 
at  her  in  a  puzzled  way,t  and  then,  after  walking  on  a  little  distance,  turned 
and  came  back,  hesitatingly.  Lucy  knew  her  well :  it  was  Mrs.  Graham,  her 
aunt's  laundress,  with  whom  she  had  had  to  settle  accounts  every  week.  She 
had  never  liked  the  woman,  but  now  she  was  overjoyed  at  meeting  her  ;  and  as 
Mrs.  Graham  said,  questioningly,  "  Miss  Lucy?  Lord,  now,  it  isn't  you?  "  she 
answered,  "  Yes,  it 's  me  ;  don't  you  know  me,  Mrs.  Graham  ?" 

"  Well,"  the  woman  said,  "  I  wasn't  sure  ;  how  you  have  changed,  miss 
I  asked  Mrs.  Newcome  where  you  was,  and  she  said  you  was  gone  abroad." 
The  woman  stopped  and  looked  curiously  at  the  baby.     She  had  taken 


PAGES  FROM   THE  LIFE   OF  LUCY  NEW  CO  ME        149 

in  the  situation  at  a  glance  ;  and  though  she  was  rather  surprised,  she  was  not 
nearly  so  much  surprised  as  Lucy  had  expected,  and  she  seemed  more 
interested  than  shocked. 

"  Pretty  baby,  miss,"  she  said,  stooping  down  to  have  a  closer  look. 

"  Yes,"  said  Lucy,  in  a  matter  of  fact  way,  "  it 's  my  baby.  I've  been  very 
unhappy." 

"  Have  you  now,  miss?  "  said  Mrs.  Graham,  sitting  down  by  her  side,  and 
looking  at  her  more  curiously  than  ever.  "Well,  you  do  look  ill.  But  where 
have  you  been  all  this  time,  and  where  are  you  living  now  ? " 

"  I'm  not  living  anywhere,"  said  Lucy  ;  "  I  only  came  out  of  hospital 
to-day  and  I've  nowhere  to  go." 

"  You  don't  mean  to  say  that !  "  said  Mrs.  Graham  ;  "  but,"  she  added, 
looking  at  the  baby,  "  his  father  .  .  ." 

"  He  has  left  me,"  said  Lucy,  as  quietly  as  she  could. 

At  this  Mrs.  Graham  glanced  at  her  in  a  somewhat  less  favourable  way. 
She  did  not  disapprove  of  people  running  away  from  home  and  getting 
children  as  irregularly  as  they  liked  ;  but  she  very  much  disapproved  of  their 
being  left. 

"  I  haven't  a  penny  in  the  world,"  Lucy  went  on  ;  "  at  least,  I  have  only 
a  little  more  than  two  shillings  ;  and  I  don't  know  what  I  am  going  to  do." 

"  Oh  dear  now,  oh  dear  !  "  said  Mrs.  Graham,  rather  coldly,  "that 's  very 
sad,  it  is.  I  do  say  that's  hard  lines.  And  so  you  was  left  without  anything. 
That's  very  hard  lines." 

"  I'm  so  glad  I  met  you,  Mrs.  Graham,"  said  Lucy.  "  Perhaps  you  can 
help  me.  Oh,  do  try  to  help  me  if  you  can  !  I  haven't  anybody,  really,  to 
look  to,  and  I  haven't  a  roof  to  shelter  me.  I  can't  stay  in  the  streets  all  day. 
I'm  so  afraid  the  baby  will  take  cold,  or  something.  It  isn't  for  myself  I  mind 
so  much.     What  shall  I  do  ?" 

While  Lucy  spoke,  Mrs.  Graham  was  considering  matters.  Without 
being  exactly  hard-hearted,  she  was  not  naturally  sympathetic,  and,  while 
she  felt  sorry  for  the  poor  girl,  she  was  not  at  all  carried  away  by  her  feelings. 
But  she  did  not  like  to  leave  her  there  as  she  was,  and  an  idea  had  occurred 
to  her  which  made  her  all  the  more  ready  to  act  kindly  towards  a  creature 
in  distress.  So  she  said,  after  a  moment's  pause,  "  Well,  you'd  better  come 
along  with  me,  miss,  and  have  a  rest,  anyway.     Shan't  I  carry  the  baby?  " 

"  Oh,  you  are  good  ! "  cried  Lucy,  seizing  her  hand,  and  almost  crying  as 
she  tried  to  thank  her.  "  No,  no,  I'll  carry  the  baby  !  And  may  I  really  come 
in  with  you  ?    You  don't  mind  ?    You  don't  mind  being  seen  ?  " 


150  THE   SAVOY 

"  Oh,  no,  /  don't  mind  !  "  said  Mrs.  Graham,  a  little  loftily.  "  It 's  this 
way,  miss." 

And  they  began  to  walk  across  the  park.  Lucy  felt  so  immensely 
relieved  that  she  was  almost  gay.  She  gave  up  thinking  of  what  was  going 
to  happen,  and  trudged  along  contentedly  by  the  side  of  the  older  woman. 
After  they  had  left  the  park  and  had  reached  the  poorer  quarter  of  the  town, 
she  suddenly  stopped  outside  a  sweet-shop.  "  It  won't  be  very  extravagant  if 
I  get  a  pennyworth  of  acid-drops,  will  it  ? "  she  said,  with  almost  her  old 
smile;  and  Mrs.  Graham  had  to  wait  while  she  went  in  and  bought  them.  Then 
they  went  on  together  through  street  after  street,  till  at  last  Mrs.  Graham 
said,  "  It 's  here,  come  in." 

As  the  door  opened  Lucy  heard  the  barking  of  a  dog  ;  and  next  moment 
she  found  herself  in  a  room  such  as  she  had  never  been  in  in  her  life,  but 
which  seemed  to  her,  at  that  moment,  the  most  delightful  place  in  the  world. 
It  was  a  kitchen,  horribly  dirty,  with  a  dog-kennel  in  one  corner,  and  a  rabbit- 
hutch  on  the  top  of  the  kennel  ;  there  was  a  patchwork  rug  on  the  floor,  and 
a  deal  table  in  the  middle,  with  a  piece  of  paper  on  one  end  of  it  as  a  table- 
cloth, and  a  loaf  of  bread,  without  a  plate,  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  table. 

"  Have  something  to  eat,  miss,"  said  Mrs.  Graham,  and  Lucy  sank  into 
an  old  stuffed  armchair,  which  stood  by  the  side  of  the  fire-place,  the  springs 
broken  and  protruding,  and  the  flock  coming  through  the  horse-hair  in  great 
gray  handfuls. 

The  baby  was  still  asleep,  and  lay  quietly  on  her  lap  as  she  munched 
ravenously  at  the  thick  slice  of  bread  and  butter  which  Mrs.  Graham  cut  for 
her.  All  at  once  she  heard  a  little  cry,  and,  looking  round  in  the  corner 
behind  her,  she  saw  a  baby  lying  in  a  clothes-basket. 

"  You'll  have  to  sleep  with  the  children  to-night,"  said  Mrs.  Graham. 
"  We've  only  two  rooms  besides  this,  and  the  children  has  one  of  them. 
When  you've  had  a  bit  of  a  meal,  you'd  better  lie  down  and  rest  yourself." 

When  Lucy  went  into  the  room  which  was  to  be  her  bedroom  for  the 
night,  she  could  not  at  first  distinguish  the  bed.  There  were  no  bedclothes,  but 
some  old  coats  and  petticoats  had  been  heaped  up  over  a  mattress  on  a  little 
iron  bedstead  in  the  corner. 

"  Now  just  lie  down  for  a  bit,"  said  Mrs.  Graham,  "  and  you  give  me  the 
baby.     I  know  the  ways  of  them." 

Lucy  threw  herself  on  the  bed.  She  could  at  least  rest  there  ;  and  she 
put  a  couple  of  acid-drops  into  her  mouth,  and  then,  almost  before  she  knew 
it,  she  was  asleep,  in  her  old  baby-fashion,  sucking  her  thumb. 


PAGES   FROM    THE   LIFE   OF  LUCY  NEW  CO  ME         151 


II 
Lucy  slept  at  Mrs.  Graham's  two  nights.  She  had  been  told  that  she 
would  have  to  work  ;  and  she  would  do  anything,  she  said,  anything.  Mrs. 
Graham  had  a  cousin,  Mrs.  Marsh,  who  had  a  large  laundry  ;  and  Mrs.  Marsh 
happened  to  be  just  then  in  want  of  a  shirt  and  collar  hand.  Lucy  knew 
nothing  about  ironing,  but  she  was  sure  she  could  learn  it  without  the  least 
difficulty.  So  the  two  women  set  out  for  Mrs.  Marsh's.  It  was  not  very  far 
off,  and  when  they  got  there  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Marsh  were  standing  at  the  big  side- 
gate,  where  the  things  were  brought  in  and  out,  watching  one  of  their  vans 
being  unloaded.  The  shop-door  was  open,  and  inside,  in  the  midst  of  the 
faint  steam,  rising  from  piles  of  white  linen,  smoking  under  the  crisp  hiss  of 
the  hot  irons,  Lucy  saw  four  young  women,  wearing  loose  blouses,  their 
sleeves  rolled  up  above  their  elbows,  their  faces  flushed  with  the  heat,  bending 
over  their  work.  Mrs.  Marsh  looked  at  her  amiably  enough,  and  she  led  the 
way  into  the  laundry.  Besides  the  four  girls,  the  two  shirt  and  collar  hands, 
the  gauferer  and  the  plain  ironer,  there  was  a  man  ramming  clothes  into  a 
boiler  with  a  long  pole,  and  a  youth,  Mrs.  Marsh's  son,  turning  a  queer,  new- 
fangled instrument  like  a  barrel,  which  dollied  the  clothes  by  means  of  some 
mechanical  contrivance.  Clothes  were  hanging  all  around  on  clothes-horses, 
and  overhead,  on  lines  ;  the  shirts  were  piled  up  in  neat  heaps  at  the  end  of 
the  ironing-boards ;  some  of  the  things  lay  in  baskets  on  the  ground.  As 
Lucy  looked  around,  her  eye  suddenly  caught  a  white  embroidered  dress 
which  was  hanging  up  to  dry  ;  and  for  the  moment  she  felt  quite  sick  ;  it  was 
exactly  like  a  dress  of  her  mother's. 

And  the  heat,  too,  was  overpowering ;  she  scarcely  knew  what  was  being 
said,  as  the  two  women  discussed  her  to  her  face,  and  bargained  between 
themselves  as  to  the  price  of  her  labour.  She  realized  that  she  was  to  come 
there  next  day ;  that  she  was  to  learn  to  iron  cuffs  and  collars  and  shirt-fronts 
like  the  young  woman  nearest  to  her,  whom  they  called  Polly ;  and,  as  a 
special  favour,  she  was  to  be  paid  eight  shillings  a-week,  the  full  price  at  once 
instead  of  only  six  shillings,  which  was  generally  given  to  beginners.  That 
she  realized,  she  realized  it  acutely ;  for  she  was  already  beginning  to  find 
out  that  money  means  something  very  definite  when  you  are  poor,  and  that  a 
shilling  more  or  less  may  mean  all  the  difference  between  everything  and 
nothing. 

That  day  it  was  arranged  that  she  should  rent  a  little  attic  in  a  house 


152  THE   SAVOY 

not  far  from  Mrs.  Graham's,  a  house  where  a  carpenter  and  his  wife  lived  : 
they  had  no  children,  and  she  could  have  a  room  to  herself.  She  was 
to  pay  five  shillings  a-week  for  her  room  and  what  they  called  her  keep,  that 
is  to  say,  breakfast  and  supper,  which,  she  soon  found  out,  meant  bread  and 
cheese  one  day,  bread  and  dripping  another,  and  bread  and  lard  a  third, 
always  with  some  very  weak  tea,  water  just  coloured.  Then  there  was  the 
baby ;  she  could  not  look  after  the  baby  while  she  was  out  at  work,  so  the 
carpenter's  wife,  who  was  called  Mrs.  Marsh,  like  the  laundress,  though  she  was 
no  relation,  promised  to  take  charge  of  the  baby  during  the  day  for  half-a- 
crown  extra.  Five  shillings  and  half-a-crown  made  seven-and-six,  and  that 
left  her  only  sixpence  a  week  to  live  on  :  could  one  say  to  live  on  ?  At  all 
events,  she  had  now  a  roof  over  her  head ;  she  would  scarcely  starve,  not 
quite  starve  ;  and  she  sat  in  her  attic,  the  first  night  she  found  herself  there, 
and  wondered  what  was  going  to  happen  :  if  she  would  have  strength  to  do 
the  work,  strength  to  live  on,  day  after  day,  strength  to  nurse  her  baby,  whose 
little  life  depended  on  hers.  She  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  looking  out  at 
the  clear,  starry  sky,  visible  above  the  roofs,  and  she  sent  up  a  prayer,  up  into 
that  placid,  unresponsive  sky,  hanging  over  her  like  the  peace  that  passeth 
understanding,  and  has  no  comfort  in  it  for  mere  mortals,  a  prayer  for 
strength,  only  for  the  strength  of  day  by  day,  one  day  at  a  time. 

Next  morning  she  took  up  her  place  at  the  ironing-board,  next  to  Polly, 
between  her  and  the  head  ironer,  whom  she  was  told  to  watch.  They  were  all 
Lancashire  girls,  not  bad-hearted,  but  coarse  and  ignorant,  always  swearing 
and  using  foul  language.  Lucy  had  never  heard  people  who  talked  like  that ; 
it  wounded  her  horribly,  and  her  pale  face  went  crimson  at  every  one  of  their 
coarse  jokes.  They  had  no  sort  of  ill-will  to  her,  but  they  knew  she  had  a 
child,  and  was  not  married,  and  they  could  not  help  reminding  her  of  the  fact, 
which  indeed  seemed  to  them  no  less  scandalous  than  their  language  seemed 
to  her.  They  really  believed  that  a  woman  who  had  been  seduced  was  exactly 
the  same  as  a  prostitute  ;  they  talked  of  people  who  led  a  gay  life  :  "  Ah,  my 
wench,  it's  a  gay  life,  but  a  short  one  ;  "  and  they  were  convinced  that  every- 
one who  led  a  gay  life  came  to  a  deplorable  end  before  she  was  five-and- 
twenty.  To  have  had  a  child,  without  having  been  married,  was  the  first 
step,  so  they  held,  in  an  inevitably  downward  course  ;  indeed,  they  believed 
that  all  kinds  of  horrible  things  came  of  it,  and  they  talked  to  one  another  of 
the  ghastly  stories  they  had  "  heerd  tell."  Lucy  had  never  heard  of  such 
things,  and  she  half  believed  them.  "  Can  all  this  really  be  true  ?  "  she  said 
to  herself  sometimes,  in  a  paroxysm  of  terror  ;  and  she  tried  not  to  think  of 


PAGES   FROM    THE   LIFE   OF  LUCY  NEWCOME  £53 

it,  as  of  something  that  might  possibly  be  true,  but  must  certainly  be  kept 
out  of  sight  and  out  of  mind. 

One  of  the  girls,  Polly,  was  always  very  nice  to  her,  and  would  come 
round  sometimes  to  her  little  room  and  hold  the  baby  for  her ;  but  the  others 
called  her  "  Miss  Stuck-up,"  "  Miss  Fine-airs,"  and  when  she  blushed,  cried, 
even,  at  the  ribaldries  which  seemed  to  them  so  natural  and  matter-of-course, 
they  would  taunt  her  with  her  bastard,  and  ask  her  if  she  didn't  know  how  a 
baby  was  made,  she  who  pretended  to  be  such  an  innocent.  She  never  tried 
to  answer  them  ;  she  did  her  work  (after  three  days  she  could  do  it  almost  as 
well  as  the  most  practised  of  them),  and  she  got  through  day  after  day  as  best  she 
could.    "  It  was  for  baby's  sake,"  she  whispered  to  herself,  "  all  for  baby's  sake." 

In  the  middle  of  the  day  they  had  a  dinner-hour,  and  the  girls  brought 
their  dinner  with  them,  which  they  generally  ate  out  of  doors,  in  the  drying- 
ground  at  the  back,  glad  to  be  out  of  the  steam  and  heat  for  a  few  minutes. 
That  hour  was  Lucy's  terror.  She  had  no  dinner  to  bring  with  her :  how 
could  she,  out  of  sixpence  a  week  ?  and  every  day  she  pretended  to  go  out 
and  get  her  meal  at  an  eating-house,  scared  lest  one  of  them  should  come 
round  the  corner,  and  see  her  walking  up  and  down  the  road,  filling  up  the 
time  until  she  could  venture  to  go  back  again.  She  knew  that  if  any  one  of 
them  had  guessed  the  truth,  had  known  that  she  could  never  afford  even  the 
cheapest  price  of  a  dinner,  they  would  one  and  all  have  shared  with  her  their 
sandwiches,  and  bread  and  cheese,  and  meat  pies,  and  apple  dumplings. 
But  she  would  not  have  let  them  know  for  worlds  ;  and  the  aching  suspense, 
lest  she  should  be  found  out,  was  almost  as  bad  to  bear  as  the  actual  pang  of 
hunger.  She  grew  thinner  and  paler,  and  every  day  it  seemed  to  her  that  the 
baby  grew  thinner  and  paler  too.  How  could  she  nourish  it,  when  she  had  no 
nourishment  herself?  She  wept  over  it,  and  prayed  God  in  agony  not  to  visit 
her  sin  on  the  child.  All  this  while  the  poor  little  thing  lay  and  wailed, 
a  feeble,  fretful,  continual  wail,  ceasing  and  going  on,  ceasing  and  going  on 
again.  It  seemed  to  her  that  the  sound  would  lodge  itself  in  her  brain,  and 
drive  her  mad,  quite  mad.  She  heard  it  when  she  was  in  the  laundry,  bending 
over  the  steaming  linen  ;  it  pierced  through  the  crisp  hiss  of  the  irons  as  they 
passed  shiningly  over  the  surface  ;  she  heard  it  keeping  time  to  her  footsteps 
as  she  walked  hungrily  up  and  down  that  road  in  the  dinner-hour ;  she 
dreamt  of  it  even,  and  woke  up  to  hear  the  little  wail  break  out  in  the  stillness 
of  the  night,  in  her  attic  bed.  And  the  wail  was  getting  feebler  and  feebler  ; 
the  baby  was  dying,  oh !  she  knew  that  it  was  dying,  and  she  could  not  save 
it ;  there  was  no  way,  absolutely  no  way  to  save  it. 

K 


154  THE   SAVOY 


III 

She  had  now  been  eight  weeks  at  the  laundry,  and  she  seemed  to  get 
thinner  every  day.  As  she  looked  at  her  face  in  the  glass,  she  was  quite 
frightened  at  the  long  hollows  she  saw  in  her  white  cheeks,  the  dark  lines 
under  her  eyes  :  her  own  face  seemed  to  fade  away  from  her  as  she  looked  at 
it,  away  into  a  mist ;  and  through  the  mist  she  heard  the  small  persistent 
crying  of  the  baby,  as  if  from  a  great  way  off.  "  Am  I  going  to  be  ill  ?  "  she 
wondered,  looking  down  at  her  fingers  helplessly.  Certainly  both  she  and  the 
child  were  in  need  of  the  doctor  ;  but  who  was  to  pay  for  a  doctor  ?  It  was 
impossible. 

That  day,  for  the  first  time  since  she  had  been  at  the  laundry,  she  had  a 
half-holiday,  and  she  put  on  her  hat  and  went  out  into  the  streets,  merely  to 
walk  about,  and  so  think  the  less.  "  I  can  at  least  look  at  the  shops,"  she  said 
to  herself,  and  she  made  her  way  to  the  more  fashionable  part  of  the  town, 
where  the  milliners'  and  jewellers'  shops  were,  and  as  she  looked  at  the  rings 
and  bracelets,  the  smart  hats  and  stylish  jackets,  it  seemed  to  her  worse  than 
ever,  to  see  all  these  things,  and  to  know  that  none  of  them  would  ever  be  hers. 
It  was  now  three  o'clock  ;  she  had  had  nothing  since  her  early  breakfast,  and 
the  long  walk,  the  loitering  about,  had  tired  her ;  it  seemed  to  her,  once  more, 
as  if  a  mist  came  floating  up  about  her,  through  which  the  sound  of  voices  was 
deadened  before  it  reached  her  ears,  and  the  ground  felt  a  little  uncertain 
under  her  feet,  as  if  it  were  slightly  elastic  as  she  trod  upon  it.  She  turned 
aside  out  of  the  main  street,  into  the  big  arcade,  where  she  thought  it  would 
be  quieter,  and  she  found  herself  staring  at  a  row  of  photographs  of  actresses, 
quite  blankly,  hardly  seeing  them.  As  she  put  her  hand  to  her  forehead,  to 
press  down  her  eyelids  for  a  moment,  she  heard  some  one  speaking  to  her, 
and  looking  round  she  saw  a  middle-aged  gentleman  standing  by  her  side, 
and  saying  in  a  very  kind  voice  :  "  My  child,  are  you  ill  ? "  Was  she  then 
looking  so  ill  ?  she  wondered,  or  was  she  really  ill  ?  She  did  not  think  so, 
only  hungry  and  faint.  How  hungry  and  faint  she  was  !  And  as  she  shook  her 
head,  and  said  "  No,  thank  you,"  she  felt  certain  that  the  old  gentleman,  who 
looked  so  kind,  would  not  believe  her.  Evidently  he  did  not  believe  her,  for 
he  continued  to  look  at  her,  and  to  say  .  .  .  what  was  it  ?  she  only,  knew  that 
he  told  her,  quite  decidedly,  that  she  must  come  and  have  some  tea.  "  Thank 
you,"  she  said  again  :  how  was  she  to  say  no  ?  and  she  walked  along  beside 
the  gentleman   in  silence.     He  did  not  say  anything  more,  but  before  she 


PAGES  FROM   THE   LIFE   OF  LUCY  NEW  CO  ME         155 

quite  knew  it,  they  were  sitting  at  a  little  table  in  a  tea-shop,  and  she  had  a 
cup  of  tea  before  her,  real  tea  (how  well  she  remembered,  from  what  a  distance, 
the  taste  of  real  tea !),  and  she  was  buttering  a  huge  scone  that  made  her 
mouth  water,  only  to  look  at  it. 

When  she  had  eaten  her  scone  and  drunk  her  tea,  she  saw  that  the 
gentleman  was  looking  at  her  more  kindly  than  ever,  but  with  a  certain  ex- 
pression which  she  could  not  help  understanding.  He  was  a  man  of  about 
fifty,  somewhat  tall,  with  broad  shoulders  and  a  powerful  head,  on  which  the 
iron-gray  hair  was  cut  close.  His  face  was  bronzed,  he  had  a  thick,  closely- 
cut  beard,  and  his  eyes  were  large,  gray,  luminous,  curiously  sympathetic  eyes, 
very  kind,  but  a  little  puzzling  in  their  expression.  And  he  began  to  talk  to 
her,  asking  her  questions,  feeling  his  way.  She  blushed  furiously :  how  he 
had  misunderstood  her !  She  was  not  angry,  only  frightened  and  disturbed  ; 
and  of  course  such  a  thing  could  never  be,  never.  He  seemed  quite  grieved 
when  she  told  him  hurriedly  that  she  must  go  ;  and  when  they  were  outside 
the  shop  he  insisted  on  walking  a  few  steps  with  her  ;  if  not  then,  would  she 
not  come  and  see  him  some  other  day  ?  He  would  be  so  glad  to  do  anything 
he  could  to  help  her  ;  that  is,  if  she  would  come  and  see  him.  But  she  blushed 
again,  and  shook  her  head,  and  told  him  how  impossible  it  was  ;  but  as  he 
insisted  on  her  taking  his  card,  she  took  it.  What  was  the  harm  ?  He  had 
been  kind  to  her.     And  of  course  she  would  never  use  it. 

That  night,  as  she  ate  her  supper  of  bread  and  dripping,  washing  it  down 
with  what  Mrs.  Marsh  called  tea,  she  thought  of  the  tea-shop  and  the  meal 
she  had  had  there,  the  pleasantness  of  the  place,  the  bright  little  tables,  the 
waitresses  gliding  about,  the  well-dressed  people  who  had  been  in  there.  And 
the  life  she  was  living  seemed  more  unbearable  than  ever.  At  first  she  had 
been  so  glad  to  be  anywhere,  to  find  any  sort  of  refuge,  where  there  was  a 
roof  over  her  head,  and  some  sort  of  bed  to  lie  on,  that  the  actual  sordidness 
of  her  surroundings  had  seemed  of  little  moment ;  but  now  it  seemed  more 
and  more  impossible  to  go  on  living  among  such  people,  without  an  educated 
person  to  speak  to,  without  a  book  to  read,  without  any  of  the  little  pleasant- 
nesses of  comfortable  life.  No,  I  cannot  go  on  with  this  for  ever,  she  said 
to  herself;  and  she  began  to  muse,  thinking  vague  things,  vaguely  ;  thinking 
of  what  the  girls  at  the  laundry  said  to  her,  what  they  thought  of  her,  and  how 
to  them  it  would  be  no  difference  at  all,  no  difference  at  all  ;  for  was  she  not 
(they  all  said  it)  a  fallen  creature  ?  When  she  went  upstairs,  and  heard  the 
feeble  wail  of  her  child,  she  almost  wondered  that  she  could  have  refused  to 
take  the  man's  money,  which  would  have  paid  for  a  doctor.     Oh,  yes,  she  was 


1 56  THE   SAVOY 

a  fallen  creature,  no  doubt ;  and  when  you  are  once  fallen  you  go  on  falling. 
But  of  course,  all  the  same,  it  was  impossible :  she  could  not  ;  and  there  was 
an  end  of  it. 

But  such  thoughts  as  these,  once  set  wandering  through  her  brain,  came 
back,  and  brought  others  with  them.  They  came  especially  when  she  was 
very  hungry  ;  they  seemed  to  float  to  her  on  the  steam  of  that  tea  which  she 
had  drunk  in  the  tea-shop  ;  they  whispered  to  her  from  the  small,  prim  letters 
of  the  card  which  she  still  kept,  with  its  sober,  respectable-looking  name, 
"  Mr.  Reginald  Barfoot,"  and  the  address  of  a  huge,  handsome  building 
which  she  had  often  seen,  mostly  laid  out  in  bachelor's  flats,  very  expensive 
flats.     But  of  course,  all  the  same,  it  was  impossible. 


IV 

On  the  Saturday  of  that  week,  while  she  was  working  at  the  laundry,  she 
had  a  message  from  Mrs.  Marsh  to  say  that  her  child  was  very  ill.  She 
hurried  back,  and  found  the  little  thing  in  convulsions.  The  poor  little  wasted 
body  shook  as  if  every  moment  would  be  its  last.  She  held  it  in  her  arms, 
and  crooned  over  it,  and  cried  over  it,  and  with  her  lips  and  fingers  seemed  to 
soothe  the  pain  out  of  it.  Presently  it  dropped  into  a  quiet  slumber.  Lucy 
sat  on  the  chair  by  the  bedside,  and  thought.  She  had  never  seen  an 
attack  like  that :  she  was  terribly  frightened  :  would  it  not  come  on  again  ? 
and  if  so,  what  was  to  be  done  ?  A  doctor,  certainly  a  doctor  must  be 
called.  But  she  had  no  money,  and  doctors  (she  remembered  her  aunt's 
doctor)  were  so  expensive.  The  money  must  be  got,  and  at  once.  She 
looked  at  the  card,  at  the  address.  Was  it  not  a  matter  of  life  or  death  ?  She 
would  go. 

Then  she  felt  that  it  was  impossible  ;  that  she  could  never  do  it.  Was  it 
really  a  matter  of  life  or  death  ?  The  baby  slept  quietly.  She  would  wait  till 
to-morrow. 

Through  that  night,  and  half-way  through  Sunday,  the  child  seemed  much 
better  ;  but  about  three  the  convulsions  came  on  again.  Lucy  was  frantic  with 
terror,  and  when  the  little  thing,  now  growing  feebler  and  feebler,  had  got  over 
a  worse  paroxysm  than  ever,  and  had  quieted  down  again,  she  called  Mrs. 
Marsh,  and  begged  her  to  look  after  the  child  while  she  went  and  fetched  the 
doctor.     "  I   may  be  a  little  while,"  she  said  ;  "  but  baby  is  quiet  now  ;  you'll 


PAGES  FROM  THE  LIFE   OF  LUCY  NEWCOME         157 

be  very  careful,  won't  you  ?  "  She  gave  the  child  one  big  kiss  on  both  his  little 
eyes  ;  then  she  put  on  her  hat  and  went  out. 

She  went  straight  to  the  address  on  the  card,  without  hesitation  now,  rang 
at  the  door,  and  a  man-servant  showed  her  into  a  room  which  seemed  to  her 
filled  with  books  and  photographs  and  pretty  things.  There  was  a  fire  in  the 
grate,  which  shed  a  warm,  comfortable  glow  over  everything.  She  held 
out  her  hands  to  it  ;  she  was  shivering  a  little.  How  nice  it  is  here,  she  could 
not  help  thinking,  or,  rather,  the  sensation  of  its  comfort  flashed  through  her 
unconsciously,  as  she  stood  there  looking  at  the  photographs  above  the  mantel- 
piece, as  blankly  as  she  had  looked  at  those  photographs,  that  other  day,  in  the 
arcade.  And  then  the  door  opened,  and  Mr.  Barfoot  came  in,  smiling,  as  he 
had  smiled  at  her  before.  He  did  not  say  anything,  only  smiled  ;  and  as  he 
came  quite  close,  and  took  her  hand,  a  sudden  terror  came  into  her  eyes,  she 
drew  back  violently,  and  covering  her  face  with  her  hands,  sobbed  out,  "  I  can't, 
I  can't ! " 

For  a  moment  the  man  looked  at  her  wonderingly  ;  then  the  expression 
of  his  face  changed,  he  took  her  hands  very  gently,  saying,  "My  poor  child  !  " 
Something  in  the  voice  and  touch  reassured  her  ;  she  let  him  draw  away  her 
hands  from  before  her  eyes,  in  which  the  tears  were  beginning  to  creep  over 
the  lower  eyelids.  She  looked  straight  into  his  face  ;  there  was  no  smile  there 
now,  and  she  almost  wondered  why  she  had  been  so  frightened  a  moment 
before.  He  led  her  to  a  chair.  "  Sit  down,  now,"  he  said,  "  and  let  us  have  a 
talk."  She  sat  down,  already  with  a  sense  of  relief,  and  he  drew  up  a  chair 
beside  her,  and  took  her  hand  again,  soothingly,  as  one  might  take  the  hand  of 
a  timid  child.  "  Now,"  he  said,  "tell  me  all  about  it.  How  ill  you  look,  my 
poor  girl.     You  are  in  trouble.     Tell  me  all  about  it." 

At  first  she  was  silent,  looking  into  his  face  with  a  sort  of  hesitating  con- 
fidence.    Then,  looking  down  again,  she  said,  "  May  I  ? " 

"  I  want  you  to,"  he  said.     "  I  want  you  to  let  me  help  you." 

"  Oh,  will  you  ? "  she  said  impulsively,  pressing  the  hand  he  held.  "  I 
haven't  a  friend  in  the  world.  I  am  all  alone.  I  have  been  very  unhappy.  It 
was  all  my  fault.  Will  you  really  help  me?  It  isn't  for  myself,  it  ...  it 's  my 
baby.  I  am  afraid  he  's  dying,  he  's  so  very  ill,  and  to-day  he  had  convulsions, 
and  I  thought  ...  I  thought  he  would  really  have  died.  And  I  haven't  a 
penny  to  get  a  doctor.     And  that 's  why  I  came." 

She  broke  off,  and  the  hesitation  came  into  her  eyes  again.  She  let  her 
hand  rest  quite  still  ;  he  felt  the  fingers  turning  cola  as  she  waited  for  what  he 
would  say. 


158  THE   SAVOY 

"  Why  didn't  you  tell  me  before  ? "  was  all  he  said,  but  the  voice  and  the 
eyes  were  kinder  than  ever.  She  almost  smiled,  she  was  so  grateful ;  and  he 
went  on,  "  Now  we  must  see  about  the  doctor  at  once.  There 's  a  doctor  who 
lives  only  three  doors  from  here.  If  he's  in,  you  must  take  him  back  with 
you.  Here,  do  you  see,  you'll  give  him  this  card  ;  or,  no,  I'll  see  him  about 
that.  Just  get  him  to  come  with  you.  And  now  I'm  going  to  give  you  a 
sovereign,  for  anything  you  want,  and  to-morrow  .  .  .  but  first  of  all,  the 
doctor.     Would  you  like  me  to  come  with  you  ? " 

"  No,  please,"  said  Lucy. 

"  Well,  you  had  better  go  there  at  once.  And  mind  you  get  anything  you 
want,  and  for  yourself,  too.  Why,  you  don't  know  how  ill  you  look  yourself! 
And  then  to-morrow  I  shall  come  and  see  how  you  are  getting  on,  and  then 
you  must  tell  me  all  about  yourself.  Not  now.  You  go  straight  to  the  doctor. 
By  the  way,  what  is  your  address  ? " 

Lucy  told  him,  hardly  able  to  speak  ;  she  could  not  quite  understand  how 
it  was  that  things  had  turned  out  so  differently  from  what  she  had  expected, 
or  how  everything  seemed  to  be  coming  right  without  any  trouble  at  all.  She 
was  bewildered,  grateful,  quiescent ;  and  as  she  got  up,  and  closed  her  hand 
mechanically  over  the  sovereign  he  slipped  into  it,  she  was  already  thinking  of 
the  next  thing  to  do,  to  find  the  doctor,  to  take  the  doctor  back  with  her  at 
once,  to  save  her  child. 

"  Now  I  shall  come  in  to-morrow  at  eleven,"  she  heard  him  saying,  "  and 
then  I'll  see  if  you  want  anything  more.  Now  good-bye.  Dr.  Hedges,  the 
third  door  from  here,  on  the  same  side." 

He  opened  the  door  for  her  himself,  and  as  she  went  downstairs  she  felt 
the  sovereign  in  her  hand,  pressing  into  her  flesh,  in  a  little  round  circle.  She 
wrapped  up  the  sovereign  in  her  handkerchief,  and  thrust  it  into  her  bodice. 
She  was  repeating,  "  Dr.  Hedges,  the  third  door  from  here,  on  the  same  side," 
over  and  over  again,  without  knowing  it,  so  mechanically,  that  she  would  have 
passed  the  door  had  she  not  seen  a  brougham  standing  outside.  It  was  the 
doctor's  brougham,  and  as  she  went  up  the  steps  in  front  of  the  house,  the 
door  opened  and  the  doctor  himself  came  out.  "  I  want  you,  please,  to  come 
with  me  at  once,"  she  said  ;  "  my  baby  .  .  .  I'm  afraid  he'll  die  if  you  don't. 
Can  you  come  at  once  ?  " 

The  doctor  looked  at  her  critically  ;  he  liked  pretty  women,  and  this  one 
was  so  young  too.  "  Yes,  my  dear,"  he  said,  "  I'll  come  at  once,  if  you  like. 
Where  is  it  ?    All  right ;  jump  in  ;  we'll  be  there  in  a  minute." 

The  doctor  talked  cheerfully,  and  without  expecting  any  answer,  all  the 


PAGES   FROM   THE  LIFE   OF  LUCY  NEWCOME         159 

way  to  the  house.  "  It 's  the  mother,"  he  thought  to  himself,  "  who  wants  the 
doctor."  Lucy  sat  by  his  side  white  and  motionless,  putting  up  her  hand 
sometimes  to  her  bodice,  to  feel  if  the  gold  was  there.  "  Heart  wrong," 
thought  the  doctor. 

When  they  reached  the  house,  Lucy  opened  the  door.  "  Come  in,"  she 
said,  and  began  to  fly  up  the  stairs  ;  then,  suddenly  checking  herself,  "  No, 
come  quietly,  perhaps  baby  is  sleeping."  They  went  up  quietly,  and  Lucy 
opened  the  attic  door  with  infinite  precaution.  As  she  held  open  the  door 
for  the  doctor  to  come  in,  she  saw  Mrs.  Marsh  move  towards  her,  she  saw  the 
bed,  and  on  the  bed  a  little  body  lying  motionless,  its  white  face  on  the 
pillow  ;  she  saw  it  all  at  a  glance,  and,  as  the  doctor  came  cheerfully  into  the 
room,  she  realized  that  everything  had  been  in  vain,  that  (she  said  to  herself) 
she  had  waited  just  too  long. 

She  sat  down  by  the  side  of  the  bed,  and  looked  straight  in  front  of  her, 
not  saying  a  word,  nor  crying ;  she  seemed  to  herself  to  have  been  stunned. 
The  doctor  examined  the  child,  and  then,  taking  Mrs.  Marsh  into  a  corner  of 
the  room,  began  to  question  her.  "  Poor  little  thing,"  said  Mrs.  Marsh,  "  he 
just  went  off  like  you  might  have  snuffed  out  a  candle.  He  was  always 
weakly,  like  ;  and  she,  you  know,  sir,  she  ain't  by  no  means  strong,  not  fit  to 
have  the  charge  of  a  baby,  sir.  I'm  that  thankful  she  takes  it  so  quiet  like. 
Did  you  say,  sir,  there'll  have  to  be  a  crowner's  quest  ?  Well,  I  do  hope  not ; 
it  do  look  so  bad." 

At  this  moment  they  heard  a  wild  cry  behind  them  ;  both  turned,  and 
saw  Lucy  fling  herself  full  length  upon  the  bed,  clasping  the  little  body  in  her 
arms,  sobbing  convulsively.  The  tears  streamed  down  her  cheeks,  the  sobs 
forced  themselves  out  in  great  bursts,  almost  in  shouts.  "  It  will  do  her  good 
to  have  a  good  cry,"  said  the  doctor.  "  I'll  leave  you  now  ;  rely  on  me  to  see 
after  things."     And  he  went  out  quietly. 

Lucy  never  remembered  quite  how  she  got  through  the  rest  of  that  day. 
It  always  seemed  to  her  afterwards  like  a  bad  dream,  through  which  she  had 
found  her  way  vaguely,  in  a  thick  darkness.  Early  in  the  evening  she 
undressed  and  went  to  bed,  and  then,  lying  awake  in  the  little  room  where 
the  dead  baby  lay  folded  in  white  things  and  covered  up  for  its  long  sleep, 
her  mind  seemed  to  soak  in,  unconsciously,  all  the  discomfortable  impressions 
that  had  made  up  her  life  since  she  had  been  living  in  that  miserable  little 
room.  Through  all  the  hopeless  sordidness  of  that  life  she  lived  again, 
enduring  the  insults  of  the  laundry,  the  labour  of  long  days,  starvation  almost, 
and  the  loneliness  of  forced  companionship  with  such  people  as  Mrs.  Marsh 


160  THE  SAVOY 

and  Polly  the  ironer.  She  had  borne  it  for  her  child's  sake,  and  now  there 
was  no  longer  any  reason  for  bearing  it.  Her  life  had  come  to  a  full  stop  ; 
the  past  was  irrevocably  past,  folded  away  like  the  little  dead  body  ;  her 
mind  had  not  the  courage  to  look  a  single  step  before  her  into  the  future  ;  she 
closed  her  eyes,  and  tried  to  shut  down  the  darkness  upon  her  brain. 

When  she  awoke  in  the  morning  it  was  nearly  nine  o'clock.  She  got  up 
and  dressed  slowly,  carefully,  and  when  she  had  had  her  breakfast  she  went  out 
to  an  undertaker's,  from  whom  she  ordered  a  baby's  coffin.  Remembering  that 
she  had  a  sovereign,  she  asked  him  to  make  it  very  nicely,  and  chose  the 
particular  kind  of  wood.  She  stayed  in  the  shop  some  time,  looking  at 
inscriptions  on  the  coffin  lids,  and  asking  questions  about  the  ages  of  the 
people  who  were  going  to  be  buried.  When  she  got  back  it  was  nearly 
eleven.  She  had  taken  off  her  hat,  and  was  tidying  her  hair,  quite  mechanically, 
in  front  of  the  glass,  when  she  heard  a  clock  strike.  Then  she  remembered 
that  Mr.  Barfoot  was  coming  to  see  her  about  eleven.  She  stood  there,  lifting 
the  hair  back  from  her  forehead  with  her  two  thin  hands,  and  her  eyes  met 
their  reflection  in  the  glass,  very  seriously  and  meditatively. 

Arthur  Svmons. 


jnrr-Trv 


<"A  A    X 


THE   TRUANTS'    HOLIDAY 

OME,  let  us  forth,  Sibylla !    The  brave  day, 
See,  's  all  a-quiver  with  its  gold  and  blue  ! 
Come,  let  us  fly  these  paltry  streets,  and  pay 
Our  matin  worship  at  some  woodland  shrine, 
Where  yet  the  pearl 's  on  rose  and  eglantine 
Not  vainly  there  to  sue 
From  Nature's  absolution  and  grave  peace 
Of  town-bred  weariness  an  hour  or  so 's  release  ! 

Oh  !  what  enchantment  lures  us !    The  glad  fields, 

The  dappled  woodland,  the  chaste,  whispering  stream  ; 

Yea,  every  marvel  which  rare  Nature  yields 
Of  colour,  or  perfume,  or  entangled  sound, 
To  those  who  awefully  approach  her  ground  ;— 
Dear,  how  each  joy  doth  seem 

This  hour  conspired  t'  entrance  us  in  some  spell 

Of  fairyland's  delight,  no  mortal  song  may  tell ! 

What  are  these  days  we  spend  in  curious  toil, 
In  hectic  pleasure,  and  misname  them  life  ? 

Ah  !  what  last  gain  shall  London's  heart  assoil 
For  skies  beclouded,  Nature's  fragrant  breath 
Made  poisonous  for  us  ;  whilst,  more  grim  than  Death, 
Amid  the  lonely  strife, 

Goading  us  on  from  fatal  hour  to  hour 

The  brooding  eyes  of  Care  on  her  cowed  victims  lower  ? 

Come,  let  us  forth  !  why  heed  pale  Duty's  frown, 
If  from  th'  accustomed  task  our  truant  feet 

Turn  wantonly,  stale  prisoners  of  the  Town  ? 
Come,  come,  let 's  haste,  ere  yet  a  jealous  fate 


1 64  THE   SAVOY 

On  steps  that  falter  shall  cry  out  "  Too  late  !  " 
Nay,  do  not  linger,  Sweet ! 
Joy  calls  a-flying  :  whoso  fears  t'  obey  her, 
May  grieve  the  live-long  day  in  vain  attempt  to  stay  her  ! 

Selwyn  Image. 


ON    THE    KIND   OF    FICTION 
CALLED     MORBID 


HIS  is  a  poison-bad  world  for  the  romancer,  this  Anglo- 
Saxon  world,"  wrote  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  to  Mr.  Sidney 
Colvin  :  and  if  a  popular  writer  with  an  obvious  style,  after 
his  years  of  experience,  came  to  this  conclusion,  we  risk 
little  in  asserting  that  the  same  conclusion  has  been  reached 
by  many  another  writer  whose'-  style  is  not  obvious,  and 
who  is  not  so  popular.  Amongst  these,  the  man  who  would  be  always  intro- 
ducing the  thin  presence  of  Death  is,  without  doubt,  the  most  reviled  ;  we  will 
have  nothing  of  a  fellow  who  comes  to  our  feasts  with  a  skull.  And  though 
we  all  agree  that  Memento  homo  quia  pulvis  es  is  a  fine  and  wise  saying,  yet, 
i'  faith  !  we  are  content  to  leave  it  at  that ;  and  we  clap  the  rogue  who  recalls 
it  in  the  stocks.  Nay  !  Ash  Wednesday  would  have  been  long  ago  rubbed 
out  of  the  calendar,  save  that  we  are  careful  not  to  understand  the  full 
significance  of  it ;  just  as  we  are  careful  not  to  understand  the  full  significance 
of  Good  Friday. 

The  smiling  gentleman  who  hails  us  in  the  street  does  not  like  to  think 
that  one  day  he  must  be  dead  ;  archbishops  are  supposed  not  to  like  a  dwell- 
ing on  that ;  and  a  certain  parson  of  easy  life,  whose  business  it  is  to  preach 
mortality,  when  invited  by  a  plain  writer  to  fall  into  a  better  acquaintance 
with  the  cold  guide  who  shall  lead  him  to  the  Eternal  Hills,  flies  into  a 
passion,  calls  my  plain  writer  (of  all  things  in  the  world  !)  immoral,  and  sits 
down,  raging,  to  write  insolent  letters  to  the  papers.  But  (you  will  ask),  do 
not  these  people  give  a  man  the  credit  of  his  courage  in  facing  what  they  dare 
not  face  ?  Well,  no.  For  when  a  man  has  done  the  day's  appointed  labour, 
he  stirs  the  fire,  sinks  into  his  armchair,  and  lo !  in  a  trice  he  spurns  the 
hearth  and  is  off  swinging  the  sword  and  aiding  somewhat  sulky  damsels  with 
De  Marsac  ;  or,  if  he  is  of  a  cold  habit  of  body,  he  wanders  in  lanes  where  the 
clover  breathes,  and  John  and  Joan  while  away  the  white-winged  hours 
a-wooing.  Or  again,  he  hies  to  the  ball,  and  watches  the  tenderness  with 
which  my  lord  and  the  farmer's  daughter  take  the  floor.     If,  then,  to  this  man 


1 68  THE   SAVOY 

a  person  of  wry  visage  and  hearse-like  airs  comes  offering  a  sombre  story — 
why,  up  he  leaps,  grasps  the  intrusive  fellow  by  the  shoulders,  and  lands  him 
in  the  street.  No ;  it  is  certain  that  abnormal  nerves  are  not  understood  or 
thought  proper  in  the  suburban  villa :  and  they  are  not  tolerated  by  the  Press, 
which  is  almost  the  same  thing.  Even  editors,  those  cocks  that  show  how 
the  popular  wind  blows,  if  they  have  no  kicks,  have  few  ha'pence  for  the 
writer  of  stories  which  are  not  sops  to  our  pleasure.  The  thought  of  death  is 
not  pleasant !  (folk  may  be  imagined  to  exclaim)  ;  to  escape  that  we  laugh  at 
sorry  farces  and  the  works  of  Mr.  Mark  Twain  ;  and  yet,  here  is  a  zany 
with  a  hatful  of  dun  thoughts  formed  to  make  one  meditate  on  one's  tomb  for 
a  week ! 

Still,  for  him,  poor  devil !  life  is  not  all  (as  they  say)  beer  and  skittles. 
With  an  impatience  of  facility,  he  sets  to  work  sedulously  on  a  branch  of  art 
which  he  is  pleased  to  consider  difficult ;  it  cannot  be  pleasant  work,  since  it 
progresses  with  shudders  and  cold  sweats  ;  it  cannot  be  easy,  since  it  is 
acknowledged  to  be  no  easy  thing  to  turn  the  blood  from  men's  faces.  He  is 
even  charmed  by  the  fancy  that  he  is  driving  his  pen  to  a  very  high  measure. 
He  may  (by  chance)  be  right  ;  he  is  possibly  wrong  ;  but  I  am  glad  to  say  I 
have  yet  to  hear  that  Banquo's  ghost  at  the  feast,  and  Caesar's  ghost  in  the 
tent,  are  deemed  infamous,  or  (as  the  cant  goes)  immoral.  And,  talking  of 
Shakespeare,  has  it  ever  occurred  to  you  how  the  critics  would  waggle  their 
heads  at  "  Romeo  and  Juliet,"  if  it  were  presented  to-day  as  a  new  piece  by 
William  Shakespeare,  Esq.  ? 

"As  in  a  vault,  an  ancient  receptacle, 
Where,  for  these  many  hundred  years,  the  bones 
Of  all  my  buried  ancestors  are  pack'd  ; 
Where  bloody  Tybalt,  yet  but  green  in  earth, 
Lies  festering  in  his  shroud  ;  where,  as  they  say, 
At  some  hours  in  the  night  spirits  resort  ; — 
Alack  !  alack  !  is  it  not  like,  that  I, 
So  early  waking, — what  with  loathsome  smells, 
And  shrieks  like  mandrakes'  torn  out  of  the  earth, 
That  living  mortals,  hearing  them,  run  mad  ; — 
O,  if  I  wake,  shall  I  not  be  distraught, 
Environed  with  all  these  hideous  fears  ? 
And  madly  play  with  my  forefathers'  joints  ? 
And  pluck  the  mangled  Tybalt  from  his  shroud  ? 
And,  in  this  rage,  with  some  great  kinsman's  bone, 
As  with  a  club,  dash  out  my  desperate  brains  ?" 

Methinks  I  see  the  words :  "  exotic,"  "  morbid,"  "  unhealthy,"  ready- 
made  for  that !     Ah  !  how,  then,  can  my  modern  writer  expect  to  be  suffered, 


ON   THE  KIND   OF  FICTION  CALLED  MORBID  169 

any  more  than  we  suffer  an  undertaker  to  send  out  cards  setting  forth  the 
excellence  of  his  wares.  When  he  takes  to  the  road,  he  must  know  that  he  is 
in  for  a  weary  and  footsore  journey  :  comely  persons,  in  beautiful  garments, 
with  eyes  full  of  invitation  look  down  from  bordering  windows  and  jeer  at  his 
sober  parade  ;  he  sees  cool,  shaded  by-lanes  which  are  never  for  him  ;  others 
pass  him  on  the  road  singing  blithe,  gamesome  songs,  and  he  is  left  to  loiter. 
And  be  sure  he  travels  in  glum  company :  the  stiff-featured  dead,  with  their 
thin  hands  and  strange  smile,  fall  into  step  with  him  and  tell  him  their  dream- 
like tales.  The  poor  dead,  whom  we  all  forget  so  soon  on  this  sunny  earth  ! 
I  think  they  tell  him  that  they  have  a  kindness  for  those  who  perform  the 
last  offices  for  them  :  the  dead  villager  for  the  barber  and  the  crone,  the  dead 
peer  for  the  undertakers  who  come  by  night  to  Belgrave  Square.  Perhaps  it 
is  from  fear  of  the  ghosts  who  attend  the  march,  that  the  writers  of  aweful 
stories  are  few  and  far  between,  up  and  down  the  world.  And  when  we  meet 
with  such  a  one,  whose  head  is  humming  like  a  top  from  the  gray  talk  of  his 
fellow-passengers,  should  we  not  thank  (rather  than  stone)  him  for  his  sense  of 
the  decency  of  things,  which  prevents  him  from  going  tearing  mad  and 
holding  the  highway  with  a  gun  ?  I  will  wager  that  the  recognition  of  this  is 
all  he  asks  of  reward  from  the  "  poison-bad  world  for  the  romancer,"  for 
sticking  with  iron  courage  to  the  graveside,  and  refusing  to  engage  in  work 
less  resolute,  and  more  easy. 

Yes,  more  easy  ;  for  it  is  more  easy — if  more  degrading — to  write  a 
certain  kind  of  novel.  To  take  a  fanciful  instance,  it  is  more  easy  to  write  the 
history  of  Miss  Perfect :  how,  upon  the  death  of  her  parents,  she  comes  to 
reside  in  the  village,  and  lives  there  mildly  and  sedately ;  and  how  one  day, 
in  the  course  of  her  walk  abroad,  she  is  noticed  by  the  squire's  lady,  who 
straightway  transports  her  to  the  Hall.  And,  of  course,  she  soon  becomes 
mighty  well  with  the  family,  and  the  squire's  son  becomes  enamoured  of  her. 
Then  the  clouds  must  gather :  and  a  villain  lord  comes  on  the  scene  to 
bombard  her  virtue  with  clumsy  artillery.  Finding  after  months  that  her 
virtue  dwells  in  an  impregnable  citadel,  he  turns  to,  and  jibes  and  goads  the 
young  squire  to  the  fighting  point.  And,  presto !  there  they  are,  hard  at  it 
with  bare  steel,  on  the  Norman  beach,  of  a  drizzling  morning ;  and  the  squire 
is  just  pressing  hot  upon  my  lord,  when — it's  hey  !  for  the  old  love,  and  ho  ! 
for  the  new — out  rushes  my  Miss  Perfect  to  our  great  amazement,  and  falls 
between  the  swords  down  on  the  stinging  sands,  in  the  sight  of  the  toiling  sea. 
Now  I  maintain,  that  a  novel  woven  of  these  meagre  threads,  and  set  out  in 
three  volumes  and  a  brave  binding,  would  put  up  a  good  front  at  Mudie's  ; 


i-o  THE   SAVOY 

would  become,  it  too,  after  a  while,  morality  packed  in  a  box.  For  nowa- 
days we  seem  to  nourish  our  morals  with  the  thinnest  milk  and  water,  with  a 
good  dose  of  sugar  added,  and  not  a  suspicion  of  lemon  at  all. 

You  will  note  that  the  letter- writer  says,  the  "Anglo-Saxon  world" — 
Great  Britain,  say !  and  the  United  States  ;  and  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind 
this  distinction.  In  France,  for  example,  people  appear  eager  to  watch  how 
art  triumphs  over  any  matter.  "  Charles  Baudelaire,"  says  Hamerton,  "  had 
the  poetical  organization  with  all  its  worst  inconveniences  ; "  but  one  incon- 
venience he  had  not — the  inconvenience  of  a  timid  public  not  interested  in 
form,  and  with  a  profound  hatred  of  the  unusual :  a  public  from  which 
Edgar  Poe,  Beddoes,  and  Francis  Saltus  (to  name  but  three)  suffered — how 
poignantly !  Let  us  cling  by  all  means  to  our  George  Meredith,  our  Henry 
James — our  Miss  Rhoda  Broughton,  if  you  will  ;  but  then  let  us  try,  if  we 
cannot  be  towards  others,  unlike  these,  if  not  encouraging,  at  the  least  not 
actively  hostile  and  harassing,  when  they  go  out  in  the  black  night  to  follow 
their  own  sullen  will-o'-the-wisps. 

Vincent  O'Sullivan. 


COUNTESS    MARIE   OF   THE 
ANGELS 

A  Jean  de  Tinan 

I 

S  he  turned  out  of  his  hotel  in  the  Avenue  de  l'Opera,  com- 
paratively obscure  at  that  hour,  and  emerged  into  the  grands 
boulevards,  Paris  flashed  upon  him,  all  at  once,  her  brightest 
illumination  :  row  upon  row  of  lamps  tapering  away  in  a 
double  file  to  meet  in  a  single  point  of  light  far  away  in  the 
direction  of  the  Place  de  la  Republique.  If  it  was  winter  by 
the  calendar,  the  languid  mellowness  of  a  fine  autumn  lingered  in  the  air.  The 
Boulevard  des  Italiens  was  massed  with  wayfarers,  sauntering,  lounging  with 
aimless  and  amiable  nonchalance,  while  a  gay  Sunday  crowd  monopolized 
all  the  little  tables  outside  the  small  and  large  cafes. 

Colonel  Mallory  searched  for  a  vacant  place  at  one  of  them,  then  aban- 
doned the  search  and  moved  slowly  along,  joining  the  rest  of  the  throng  with 
steps  as  aimless,  but  with  sentiments  somewhat  remote  from  theirs. 

Fifty,  perhaps,  of  middle  stature,  his  white  moustache  was  in  striking 
contrast  with  his  short,  crisp  hair  which  had  retained  its  original  darkness. 
Obviously  English,  with  his  keen,  blue  eyes ;  obviously  a  soldier  too,  in  gait 
and  bearing,  and  in  a  certain  sternness  which  comes  of  command,  of  high 
responsibility  in  perilous  places,  even  when  that  command  is  kindly.  An 
Anglo-Indian,  to  judge  by  his  complexion,  and  the  lines,  tell-tale  of  the  tropics, 
which  scored  his  long,  lean  face,  the  colour  of  parchment.  Less  obviously 
English,  and  hardly  military,  was  a  certain  grace,  almost  exotic,  in  his  manner. 
He  had  emerged  into  the  Boulevard  Montmartrc  before  a  cafe,  less  frequented 
than  the  others,  caught  his  eye,  and  with  a  certain  relief  he  could  possess  him- 
self of  a  vacant  chair  on  the  terrasse.  He  ordered  a  drink,  lit  a  cigar,  and 
settled  himself  to  watch  with  an  interest  which  was  not  so  much  present  as 
retrospective,  the  crowd  of  passers-by.  And  as  he  watched  his  eyes  softened 
into  sadness. 


174  THE   SAVOY 

He  had  arrived  from  England  that  morning — he  had  not  so  very  long 
arrived  from  India — and  this  crowd,  these  lights,  the  hard,  bright  gaiety  of  the 
boulevards  was  at  once  fantastically  strange  to  him  and  strangely  familiar  ; 
for,  twenty,  or  was  it  nearer  thirty  years  ago,  Paris  had  been  to  him  not  merely 
the  city  of  cities,  but  that  one  of  them  which  most  represented  old  associations, 
his  adolescence,  boyhood,  childhood.  True,  there  had  been  Les  Rochers,  the 
dilapidated  chateau,  half  ruin  to  his  recollection,  and  now  wholly  a  ruin,  or 
perhaps  demolished — Les  Rochers  in  the  Vendee,  where  he  had  been  born, 
where  he  had  spent  his  summer  holidays,  where — how  many  years  ago  ? — being 
at  home  on  leave,  just  after  he  had  obtained  his  company,  he  had  closed  the 
eyes  of  his  mother. 

But  Paris  !  It  was  his  best  remembered  boyhood  ;  the  interrupted  studies 
in  the  Quartier,  the  Lycee,  the  boyish  friendships,  long  since  obliterated,  the 
days  of  congt  spent  in  the  little  hotel  in  the  Rue  de  Varennes,  where,  more 
often  than  at  Les  Rochers,  his  mother,  on  her  perpetual  couch,  economized  her 
delicate  days — days  even  then  so  clearly  defined — as  it  were  in  an  half  twilight. 
Yes,  until  death  and  estrangement  and  the  stern  hand  of  circumstance  had 
cast  away  that  old  life  into  the  limbo  of  the  dear  irrevocable,  that  old  life  had 
been — Paris  !  Episodes  the  rest :  the  occasional  visits  to  the  relations  of  his 
English  father ;  and  later,  episodes  too,  London,  murky  London,  the  days  at 
Wren's,  the  month  or  so  with  an  army-coach  at  Bonn,  the  course  at  Woolwich  ; 
almost  episodical  too  the  first  year  of  his  soldiering.  Quartered  at  Dover,  what 
leave  fell  to  him,  he  had  spent  in  Paris — at  Les  Rochers  sometimes,  but  more 
often  at  Paris — in  those  strangely  silent  rooms  in  the  Rue  de  Varennes. 

Looking  out  now,  the  phantasmagoria  of  the  boulevards  was  obliterated 
and  those  old  days  floated  up  before  him.  Long  before  Woolwich  :  that  time 
when  he  was  a  Lyceen,  in  the  winter  holidays.  A  vision  so  distinct !  His 
mother's  salon,  the  ancient,  withered  furniture,  the  faded  silk  of  the  Louis  XV. 
chairs,  the  worn  carpet :  his  mother's  refined  and  suffering  face,  the  quaint 
bird-like  features  of  the  two  old  Mesdemoiselles  de  la  Touche — the  near 
neighbours  of  his  mother  and  the  most  intimate  gossips  round  her  couch — two 
ancient  sisters,  very  noble  and  very  withered,  dating  from  Charles  X.,  absorbed 
in  good  works,  in  the  merits  of  their  confessor,  and  in  the  exile  of  Frohsdorf. 
Very  shadowy  figures,  more  shadowy  even  than  that  of  himself,  in  the  trim 
uniform  of  his  Lycee  ;  a  grave  and  rather  silent  boy,  saddened  by  the  twilight 
of  that  house,  the  atmosphere  of  his  invalid  mother. 

More  distinct  was  the  dainty  figure  of  a  little  girl,  a  child  of  fifteen,  but 
seeming  younger,  united  to  him  by  a  certain  cousinship,  remote  enough  to  be 


COUNTESS  MARIE    OF    THE  ANGELS  175 

valued,  who,  on  her  days  of  exit  from  the  Sacre  Cceur  (his  mother's  constant 
visitor),  talked  with  him  sedately,  softly — for  there  was  a  sort  of  hush  always 
in  that  house — in  an  alcove  of  the  sombre  room.  This  child  with  her  fragility, 
her  face  of  a  youthful  Madonna,  the  decorous  plaits  in  which  her  silken  hair 
was  gathered,  losing  thereby  some  of  its  lustre — the  child  seemed  incongruous 
with  and  somewhat  crushed  and  awed  beneath  the  weight  of  her  sonorous 
names  :    Marie-Joseph-Angele  de  la  Tour  de  Boiserie. 

What  did  they  converse  of  on  those  long  and  really  isolated  afternoons — 
isolated,  for  their  elders,  if  they  were  present,  and  their  presence  overshadowed 
them,  were  really  so  remote,  with  their  lives  in  the  past,  in  lost  things  ;  their 
so  little  hold  on,  or  care  of,  the  future  ? 

But  these  were  young,  and  if  some  of  the  freshness  of  youth  had  been 
sacrificed  a  little  to  what  was  oppressive  in  their  surroundings,  yet  they  were 
young  things,  with  certain  common  interests,  and  a  future  before  them,  if  not 
of  boundless  possibilities,  still  a  future. 

Yet  it  was  hardly  of  love  which  they  could  speak,  though  their  kindness 
for  each  other,  fostered  by  somewhat  similar  conditions,  had  ripened  into  that 
feeling.  Of  love  there  could  be  no  question  :  for  Sebastian  Mallory,  as  for 
his  little  companion,  their  life,  as  it  should  be,  had  been  already  somewhat 
arranged.  For  Angele,  had  not  the  iron-featured  old  grandmother,  in  her 
stately  but  penurious  retreat  near  Les  Rochers,  resolved  long  ago  that  the 
shattered  fortunes  of  a  great  house,  so  poor  in  all  but  name,  were  to  be 
retrieved  by  a  rich  marriage  ?  And  for  Sebastian,  was  not  all  hope  of  fortune 
centred  in  his  adhesion  to  the  plan  which  had  so  long  been  made  for  him  : 
the  course  at  Woolwich,  the  military  career — with  its  prosperous  probabilities 
beneath  the  protection  of  an  influential  relative — the  exile,  as  it  sometimes 
seemed  to  him  then,  in  England  ?  .  .  . 

Certainly,  there  was  much  affection  between  these  two,  an  affection 
maintained  on  the  strength  of  the  ambiguous  cousinship,  in  a  correspondence, 
scanty,  but  on  each  side  sincere,  for  at  least  a  few  years  after  their  roads  had 
diverged.  And  there  were  other  memories,  later  and  more  poignant,  and  as 
distinct,  which  surged  up  before  his  eyes  ;  and  the  actual  life  of  the  boulevards 
grew  vaguer.  Had  life  been  too  much  arranged  for  them  ?  Had  it  been 
happier,  perhaps,  for  him,  for  her,  if  they  had  been  less  acquiescent  to 
circumstance,  had  interpreted  duty,  necessity — words  early  familiar  to  them — 
more  leniently  ? 

Colonel  Mallory,  at  fifty,  with  his  prosperous  life  behind  him — and  it  had 
not  been  without  its  meed  of  glory — wondered  to-night  whether,  after  all,  it 


i76  THE   SAVOY 

had  not  been  with  prophetic  foresight,  that  once,  writing,  in  a  sudden  mood  of 
despondency,  more  frankly  than  usual,  to  that  charming  friend  of  his  boyhood, 
he  had  said,  years  ago  : 

"  /  feel  all  this  is  a  mistake ; "  and,  lower  down  in  the  same  letter  : 
"  Paris  haunts  me  like  a  regret.  I  feel,  as  we  say  liere, '  out  of  it!  And  I  fear 
I  shall  never  make  a  good  soldier.  Not  that  I  mean  that  I  am  lacking  in 
physical  courage,  nor  that  I  should  disgrace  myself  under  fire.  But  there  is  a 
difference  between  t/uzt  and  possession  of  the  military  vocation,  and  nature  never 
designed  me  to  be  a  man  of  action.  .  .  .  My  motfwr,  you,  yourself,  my  dear, 
grave  cousin  and  councillor,  think  much  of  duty,  and  I  sliall  always  endeavour  to 
do  mine — as  circumstances  have  set  it  down  for  me — but  there  is  a  duty  one  owes 
to  oneself,  to  one's  character,  and  in  that,  per liaps,  I  have  failed!' 

A  letter,  dated  "  Simla,"  the  last  he  would  ever  write  to  Mademoiselle  de 
la  Tour  de  Boiserie,  actually,  at  that  time,  though  of  this  fact  he  was  ignorant, 
betrothed  to  a  certain  Comte  Raoul  des  Anges.  The  news  of  the  marriage 
reached  him  months  later,  just  fresh  from  the  excitement  and  tumult  of  a 
little  border  war,  from  which  he  had  returned  with  a  name  already  associated 
with  gallantry,  and  a  somewhat  ugly  wound  from  a  Pathan  spear. 

In  hospital,  in  the  long  nights  and  days,  in  the  grievous  heats,  he  had 
leisure  for  thought,  and  it  is  to  be  presumed  he  exercised  it  in  a  more  strict 
analysis  of  his  feelings,  and  it  was  certainly  from  this  date  that  a  somewhat 
stern  reticence  and  reserve,  which  had  always  characterized  his  manner, 
became  ingrained  and  inveterate. 

And  it  was  reticently,  incidentally,  and  with  little  obvious  feeling  that  he 
touched  on  the  news  in  a  letter  to  his  mother : 

"  Et  ce  M.  des  Anges,  dont  je  ne  connais  que  le  nom,  est-il  digne  de  notre 
enfant  ?  His  name  at  least  is  propitious.  Tell  la  petite  cousine — or  tell  lier  not, 
as  you  think  fit,  tltat  to  me  she  will  always  be  '  Marie  of  tfte  Angels!  " 


11 
That  had  seemed  the  end  of  it,  of  their  vaguely  tender  and  now  so 
incongruous  relation  ;  as  it  was  inevitably  the  end  of  their  correspondence. 
And  he  set  himself,  buoyed  up  by  a  certain  vein  of  austerity  in  his  nature,  to 
conquer  that  instinctive  distaste  which,  from  time  to  time,  still  exercised  him 
towards  his  profession,  to  throw  himself  into  its  practice  and  theory,  if  not 
with  ardour,  at  least  with  an  earnestness  that  was  its  creditable  imitation. 
And  in  due  time  he  reaped  his  reward.  .  .  . 


COUNTESS  MARIE   OF   THE  ANGELS  177 

But  there  was  another  memory — for  the  past  will  so  very  rarely  bury  its 
dead — a  memory  intense  and  incandescent,  and,  for  all  its  bitterness,  one  which 
he  could  ill  have  spared. 

That  was  five  years  later :  invalided  home,  on  a  long  leave,  with  a  fine 
aroma  of  distinction  attaching  to  him,  it  was  after  the  funeral  of  his  mother, 
after  all  the  sad  and  wearisome  arrangements  for  the  disposition  of  Les 
Rochers  that  Colonel — then  Captain — Mallory  heard  in  Paris  the  loud  and 
scandalous  rumours  which  were  associated  with  the  figure  of  the  Comte  Raoul 
des  Anges.  There  was  pity  mingled  with  the  contempt  with  which  his  name 
was  more  often  mentioned,  for  the  man  was  young — it  was  his  redeeming 
feature — but  an  z'nseust? !  It  was  weakness  of  character  (some  whispered 
weakness  of  intellect)  and  not  natural  vice  :  so  the  world  spoke  most  frequently. 
But  his  head  had  been  turned,  it  had  not  been  strong  enough  to  support  the 
sudden  weight  of  his  immense  fortune.  A  great  name  and  a  colossal  fortune, 
and  {bon  garqon  though  he  was)  the  intelligence  of  a  rabbit ! 

In  Paris,  to  go  no  further,  is  there  not  a  whole  army  of  the  shrewd,  the 
needy,  and  the  plausible,  ready  to  exploit  such  a  conjunction  ?  And  to  this 
army  of  well-dressed  pimps  and  parasites,  Raoul  had  been  an  easy  victim. 
The  great  name  had  been  dragged  in  the  mire,  the  colossal  fortune  was 
rapidly  evaporating  in  the  same  direction,  what  was  left  of  the  little 
intelligence  was  debased  and  ruined.  A  marriage  too  early,  before  the  lad  had 
time  to  collect  himself,  for  old  Madame  des  Anges  had  kept  him  very  tight, 
perhaps  that  had  been  largely  responsible  for  the  collapse.  And  it  was  said  the 
Comtesse  des  Anges  was  little  congenial,  a  prude,  at  least  a  devote,  who  could 
hardly  be  expected  to  manage  ce  pauvre  Raoul.  She  was  little  known  in  Paris. 
They  were  separated  of  course,  had  been  for  a  year  or  more  ;  she  was  living 
with  her  baby,  very  quietly,  in  some  old  house,  which  belonged  to  her  family, 
at  Sceaux — or  was  it  at  Fontenay-aux-Roses  ? — on  the  remnants  of  her  own 
fortune. 

All  this,  and  much  more,  Mallory  heard  in  club  and  in  cafe  during  that 
memorable  sojourn  in  Paris.  He  said  nothing,  but  he  raged  inwardly  ;  and 
one  day,  moved  by  an  immense  impulse  of  pity  and  tenderness,  he  went  down 
to  Fontenay-aux-Roses,  to  visit  Madame  des  Anges. 

His  visit  was  only  for  a  week  ;  that  was  the  memory  which  he  could  not 
spare,  and  which  was  yet  so  surpassingly  bitter.  He  had  stopped  at  Sceaux, 
at  an  unpretending  inn,  but  each  day  he  had  walked  over  to  Fontenay,  and 
each  day  had  spent  many  hours  with  her,  chiefly  in  the  old-fashioned  garden 
which  surrounded  her  house.     She  had  changed,  but  she  had  always  the  same 


178  THE   SAVOY 

indefinable  charm  for  him  ;  and  the  virginal  purity  of  her  noble  beauty, 
marriage  had  not  assailed,  if  it  had  saddened.  And  if,  at  first,  she  was  a  little 
strange,  gradually  the  recollection  of  their  old  alliance,  her  consciousness  of 
the  profundity  of  his  kindness  for  her,  melted  the  ice  of  their  estrangement. 

At  last  she  spoke  to  him  freely,  though  it  had  needed  no  speech  of  hers 
for  him  to  discern  that  she  was  a  woman  who  had  suffered  ;  and  in  the  light 
of  her  great  unhappiness,  he  only  then  saw  all  that  she  was  to  him,  and  how 
much  he  himself  had  suffered. 

They  were  very  much  alone.  It  was  late  in  the  year  ;  the  gay  crowd  of 
the  endzmanc/i/s  had  long  ceased  to  make  their  weekly  pilgrimages  to  the 
enchanting  suburbs  which  surround  Paris  with  a  veritable  garden  of  delight ; 
and  the  smart  villas  on  the  hill-side,  at  Sceaux  and  Fontenay,  were  shut  up 
and  abandoned  to  caretakers.  So  that  Captain  Mallory  could  visit  the 
Chalet  des  Rosiers  without  exciting  undue  remark,  or  remark  that  was  to  be 
accounted. 

And  one  afternoon,  as  was  inevitable,  the  flood-gates  were  broken  down, 
and  their  two  souls  looked  one  another  in  the  face.  But  if,  for  one 
moment,  she  abandoned  herself,  weeping  pitiably  on  his  shoulders,  carried 
away,  terrified  almost  by  the  vehemence  of  his  passion  ;  for  the  volcanoes, 
which  were  hidden  beneath  the  fine  crust  of  his  reticence,  his  self-restraint, 
she  had  but  dimly  suspected  ;  it  was  only  for  a  moment.  The  reaction  was 
swift  and  bitter  ;  her  whole  life,  her  education,  her  tradition,  were  stronger 
than  his  protestations,  stronger  than  their  love,  their  extreme  sympathy, 
stronger  than  her  misery.  And  before  she  had  answered  him — calm  now, 
although  the  tears  were  in  her  voice — he  knew  instinctively  that  she  was  once 
more  far  away  from  him,  that  she  was  not  heeding  his  arguments,  that  what 
he  had  proposed  was  impossible  ;  life  was  too  strong  for  them.  "  Leave  me, 
my  friend,  my  good  and  old  friend  !  I  was  wrong — God  forgive  me — even  to 
listen  to  you !  The  one  thing  you  can  do  to  help  me,  the  one  thing  I  ask  of 
you,  for  the  sake  of  our  old  kindness,  is — to  leave  me." 

He  had  obeyed  her,  for  the  compassion,  with  which  his  love  was  mingled, 
had  purged  passion  in  him  of  its  baser  concomitants.  And  when  the  next 
day  he  had  called,  hardly  knowing  himself  the  object  of  his  visit,  but  ready,  if 
she  still  so  willed  it,  that  it  should  be  a  final  one,  she  had  not  received  him.  .  .  . 
He  was  once  more  in  India,  when  a  packet  of  his  old  letters  to  her,  some  of 
them  in  a  quite  boyish  handwriting,  were  returned  to  him.  That  she  had 
kept  them  at  all  touched  him  strangely  ;  that  she  should  have  returned  them 
now  gave   him  a   very   clear  and   cruel   vision   of  how  ruthlessly  she  would 


COUNTESS  MARIE    OF  THE  ANGELS  179 

expiate  the  most  momentary  deviation  from  her  terrible  sense  of  duty.  And 
the  tide  of  his  tenderness  rose  higher ;  and  with  his  tenderness,  from  time  to 
time,  a  certain  hope,  a  hope  which  he  tried  to  suppress,  as  being  somewhat  of 
a  l&cheU,  began  to  be  mingled. 


Ill 

"  Paris  haunts  me  like  a  regret  !  "  That  old  phrase,  in  his  last  letter  to 
Mademoiselle  de  la  Tour  de  Boiserie,  returned  to  him  with  irony,  as  he  sat  on 
the  boulevard,  and  he  smiled  sadly,  for  the  charm  of  Paris  seemed  to  him 
now  like  a  long  disused  habit.  Yet,  after  all,  had  he  given  reminiscence  a 
chance  ?  For  it  was  hardly  Paris  of  the  grands  boulevards,  with  its  crude 
illumination,  its  hard  brilliancy,  its  cosmopolitan  life  of  strangers  and 
sojourners,  which  his  regret  had  implied.  The  Paris  of  his  memories,  the 
other  more  intimate  Paris,  from  the  Faubourg  Saint  Germain  to  the  quarter 
of  ancient,  intricate  streets  behind  the  Pantheon  : — there  was  time  to  visit 
that,  to  wander  vaguely  in  the  fine  evening,  and  recall  the  old  landmarks,  if  it 
was  hardly  the  hour  to  call  on  Madame  des  Anges. 

He  dined  at  an  adjacent  restaurant,  hastily,  for  time  had  slipped  by 
him — then  hailed  a  cab,  which  he  dismissed  at  the  Louvre,  for,  after  the 
lassitude  of  his  meditation,  a  feverish  impulse  to  walk  had  seized  him.  He 
traversed  the  Place  de  Carrousel,  that  stateliest  of  all  squares,  now  gaunt  and 
cold  and  bare,  in  its  white  brilliance  of  electricity,  crossed  the  bridge,  and  then 
striking  along  the  Quai,  found  himself  almost  instinctively  turning  into  the 
Rue  du  Bac.  Before  a  certain  number  he  came  to  a  halt,  and  stood  gazing 
up  at  the  inexpressive  windows.  .  .  . 

More  than  a  year  ago  that  which  he  had  dimly  hoped,  and  had  hated 
himself  for  hoping,  had  befallen.  The  paralytic  imbecile,  who  had  dragged 
out  an  apology  for  a  life,  which  at  its  very  best  would  hardly  have  been 
missed,  and  which  had  been  for  fifteen  years  a  burden  to  himself  and  others, 
the  Comte  Raoul  des  Anges,  that  gilded  calf  of  a  season,  whose  scandalous 
fame  had  long  since  been  forgotten,  was  gathered  to  his  forefathers.  That 
news  reached  Colonel  Mallory  in  India,  and  mechanically,  and  with  no  very 
definite  object  in  his  mind,  yet  with  a  distinct  sense  that  this  course  was  an 
inevitable  corollary,  he  had  handed  in  his  papers.  But  some  nine  months 
later,  when,  relieved  of  his  command,  and  gazetted  as  no  longer  of  Her 
Majesty's  service,  he  was  once  more  in  possession  of  his  freedom,  it  was  a 
very  different   man   to   that  youthful   one   who   had    made  such  broken  and 


180  THE   SAVOY 

impassioned  utterances  in  the  garden  of  the  Chalet  des  Rosiers,  who  ultimately 
embarked  in  England. 

The  life,  the  service,  for  which  he  had  retained,  to  the  last,  something  of 
his  old  aversion,  for  which  he  had  possessed,  however  well  he  had  acquitted 
himself,  perhaps  little  real  capacity  :  all  that  had  left  its  mark  on  him.  He 
had  looked  on  the  face  of  Death,  and  affronted  him  so  often,  had  missed  him 
so  narrowly,  had  seen  him  amid  bloodshed  and  the  clash  of  arms,  and,  with 
the  same  equanimity,  in  times  of  peace,  when,  yet  more  terribly,  his  angel, 
Cholera,  devastated  whole  companies  in  a  night,  that  life  had  come  to  have 
few  terrors  for  him,  and  less  importance. 

Yet  what  was  left  of  the  old  Sebastian  Mallory  was  his  abiding  memory, 
a  continual  sense  (as  it  were  of  a  spiritual  presence  cheering  and  supporting 
him)  of  the  one  woman  whom  he  had  loved,  whom  he  still  loved,  if  not  with 
his  youth's  original  ardour,  yet  with  a  great  tenderness  and  pity,  partaking  of 
the  nature  of  the  theological  charity. 

"  Marie  of  the  Angels,"  as  he  had  once  in  whimsical  sadness  called  her. 
Yes  !  He  could  feel  now,  after  all  those  years  of  separation,  that  she  had  been 
to  him  in  some  sort  a  genius  actually  angelic,  affording  him  just  that  salutary 
ideal,  which  a  man  needs,  to  carry  him  honourably,  or,  at  least,  without  too 
much  self-disgust,  through  the  miry  ways  of  life.  And  that  was  why,  past  fifty, 
a  grim,  kindly,  soldierly  man,  he  had  given  up  soldiering  and  returned  to  find 
her.  That  was  why  he  stood  now  in  the  Rue  du  Bac — for  it  was  from  there, 
on  hearing  of  his  intention,  she  had  addressed  him — gazing  up  in  a  senti- 
mentality almost  boyish,  at  those  blank,  unlit  windows. 


IV 
Those  windows,  so  cold  and  irresponsive,  he  could  explain,  when,  return- 
ing to  his  hotel,  he  found  a  note  from  ner.  It  was  dated  from  the  Chalet  des 
Rosiers.  She  was  so  little  in  Paris,  that  she  had  thoughts  of  letting  her  house  ; 
but,  to  meet  an  old  and  valued  friend,  she  would  gladly  have  awaited  him  there 
— only,  her  daughter  (she  was  still  at  the  Sacre  Cceur,  although  it  was  her  last 
term)  had  been  ailing.  Paris  did  not  agree  with  the  child,  and,  perforce,  she 
had  been  obliged  to  go  down  to  Fontenay  to  prepare  for  her  reception.  There, 
at  any  time,  was  it  necessary  to  say  it  ?  she  would  be  glad,  oh,  so  glad,  to 
receive  him  !  There  was  sincerity  in  this  letter,  which  spoke  of  other  things,  of 
his  life,  and  his  great  success — had  she  not  read  of  him  in  the  papers  ?  There 
was  affection,  too,  between    the  somewhat  formal    lines,  reticent   but   real ; 


COUNTESS  MARIE   OF   THE  ANGELS  181 

so  much  was  plain  to  him.  But  the  little  note  struck  chill  to  him  ;  it  caused 
him  to  spend  a  night  more  troubled  and  painful  than  was  his  wont — for 
he  slept  as  a  rule  the  sleep  of  the  old  campaigner,  and  his  trouble  was 
the  greater  because  of  his  growing  suspicion,  that,  after  all,  the  note  which 
Madame  des  Anges  had  struck  was  the  true  one,  for  both  of  them  ;  that 
a  response  to  it  in  any  other  key  would  be  factitious,  and  that  his  pilgrimage 
was  a  self-deception.  And  this  impression  was  only  heightened  when,  on  the 
morrow,  he  made  his  way  to  the  station  of  the  Luxembourg,  which  had  been 
erected  long  since  his  day,  when  the  facilities  of  travel  were  less  frequent,  and 
took  his  ticket  for  Fontenay.  So  many  thousand  miles  he  had  come  to 
see  her,  and  already  a  certain  vague  terror  of  his  approaching  interview  was 
invading  him.  Ah !  if  it  had  been  Paris !  .  .  .  But  here,  at  Fontenay-aux- 
Roses  there  was  no  fortunate  omen.  It  represented  no  common  memories, 
but  rather  their  separate  lives  and  histories,  except,  indeed,  for  one  brief  and 
unhappy  moment  which  could  hardly  be  called  propitious.  .  .  . 

Yet  it  was  a  really  kind  and  friendly  reception  which  she  gave  him  ;  and 
his  heart  went  out  to  her,  when,  after  dtjeuner,  they  talked  of  quite  trivial 
things,  and  he  sat  watching  her,  her  fine  hands  folded  in  her  lap,  in  the  little 
faded  salon,  which  smelt  of  flowers.  She  had  always  her  noble  charm, 
and  something  of  her  old  beauty,  although  that  was  but  the  pale  ghost  of 
what  it  had  once  been,  and  her  soft  hair,  upon  which  she  wore  no  insincere 
symbols  of  widowhood,  was  but  little  streaked  with  gray.  She  had  proposed 
a  stroll  in  the  garden,  where  a  few  of  its  famed  roses  still  lingered,  but  he  made 
a  quick  gesture  of  refusal,  and  a  slight  flush,  which  suffused  her  pale  face,  told 
him  that  she  comprehended  his  instinctive  reluctance. 

He  fell  into  a  brooding  reverie,  from  which,  presently,  she  softly  inter- 
rupted him. 

"You  look  remote  and  sad,"  she  murmured;  "that  is  wrong — the  sad- 
ness !  It  is  a  pleasant  day,  this,  for  me,  and  I  had  hoped  it  would  be  the  same 
for  you  too." 

"  I  was  thinking,  thinking,"  he  said, — "  that  I  have  always  missed  my 
happiness." 

Then  abruptly,  before  she  could  interrupt  him,  rising  and  standing  before 
her,  his  head  a  little  bowed  : 

"  It  is  late  in  the  day,  but,  Angele,  will  you  marry  me  ? " 

She  was  silent  for  a  few  minutes,  gazing  steadily  with  her  calm  and 
melancholy  gaze  into  his  eyes,  which  presently  avoided  it.  Then  she 
said  : 


1 82  THE   SAVOY 

"  I  was  afraid  that  some  such  notion  was  in  your  mind.  Yet  I  am  not 
sorry  you  have  spoken,  for  it  gives  me  an  opportunity, — an  occasion  of  being 
quite  sincere  with  you,  of  reasoning." 

"  Oh,  I  am  very  reasonable,"  he  said,  sadly. 

"  Yes,"  she  threw  back,  quickly.  "  And  that  is  why  I  can  speak.  No," 
she  went  on,  after  a  moment,  "there  is  no  need  to  "reason  with  you.  My  dear 
old  friend,  you  see  yourself  as  clearly  as  I  do,— examine  your  heart  honestly 
— you  had  no  real  faith  in  your  project,  you  knew  that  it  was  impossible." 

He  made  no  attempt  to  contradict  her. 

"  You  may  be  right,"  he  said  ;  "  yes,  very  likely,  you  are  right.  There  is 
a  season  for  all  things,  for  one's  happiness  as  for  the  rest,  and  missing  it  once, 
one  misses  it  for  ever.  .  .  .  But  if  things  had  been  different.  Oh,  Angele,  I 
have  loved  you  very  well !  " 

She  rose  in  her  turn,  made  a  step  towards  him,  and  there  were  tears  in  her 
eyes. 

"  My  good  and  kind  old  friend !  Believe  me,  I  know  it,  I  have  always 
known  it.  How  much  it  has  helped  me — through  what  dark  and  difficult  days 
— I  can  say  that  now  :  the  knowledge  of  how  you  felt,  how  loyal  and  staunch 
you  were.  You  were  never  far  away,  even  in  India ;  and  only  once  it  hurt 
me."  She  broke  off  abruptly,  as  with  a  sudden  transition  of  thought  ;  she 
caught  hold  of  both  his  hands,  and,  unresistingly,  he  followed  her  into  the 
garden.  "  I  will  not  have  you  take  away  any  bitter  memories  of  this  place," 
she  said,  with  a  smile.  "  Here,  where  you  once  made  a  great  mistake,  I  should 
like  to  have  a  recantation  from  your  own  lips,  to  hear  that  you  are  glad, 
grateful,  to  have  escaped  a  great  madness,  a  certain  misery." 

"  There  are  some  miseries  which  are  like  happiness." 

"  There  are  some  renunciations  which  are  better  than  happiness." 

After  a  while  he  resumed,  reluctantly  : 

"  You  are  different  to  other  women,  you  always  knew  best  the  needs  of 
your  own  life.     I  see  now  that  you  would  have  been  miserable." 

"  And  you  ?  "  she  asked,  quickly. 

"  I  may  think  your  ideal  of  conduct  too  high,  too  hard  for  poor  human 
flesh.  I  dare  not  say  you  are  wrong.  .  .  .  But,  no,  to  have  known  always  that 
I  had  been  the  cause  of  your  failing  in  that  ideal,  of  lowering  yourself  in  your 
own  eyes — that  would  not  have  been  happiness." 

"That  was  what  I  wanted,"  she  said,  quickly. 

Later,  as  he  was  leaving  her — and  there  had  been  only  vague  talk  of  any 
further  meeting — he  said,  suddenly  : 


COUNTESS  MARIE   OF   THE  ANGELS  183 

"  I  hate  to  think  of  your  days  here ;  they  stretch  out  with  a  sort  of  gray- 
ness.     How  will  you  live  ?  " 

"  You  forget  I  have  my  child,  Ursule,"  she  said.  "  She  must  necessarily 
occupy  me  very  much  now  that  she  is  leaving  the  convent.  And  you — you 
have " 

"  I  have  given  up  my  profession." 

"  Yes,  so  much  I  knew.    But  you  have  inherited  an  estate,  have  you  not?" 

"  My  uncle's  place.  Yes,  I  have  Beauchamp.  I  suppose  I  shall  live  there. 
I  believe  it  has  been  very  much  neglected." 

"  Yes,  that  is  right.  There  is  always  something  to  do.  I  shall  like  to 
think  of  you  as  a  model  landlord." 

"  Think  of  me  rather  as  a  model  friend,"  he  said,  bowing  to  kiss  her  hand 
as  he  said  good-bye  to  her. 

Ernest  Dowson. 

Paris — Pont-Aven,  1896. 


A  Footnote 


by 


Aubrey  Beardsley 


UNDER   THE  HILL 


9  Eomantic  ^torp 

CHAPTER    IV 

T  is  always  delightful  to  wake  up  in  a  new  bedroom.  The 
fresh  wall-paper,  the  strange  pictures,  the  positions  of  doors 
and  windows,  imperfectly  grasped  the  night  before,  are 
revealed  with  all  the  charm  of  surprise  when  we  open  our 
eyes  the  next  morning. 

It  was  about  eight  o'clock  when  Fanfreluche  awoke, 
stretched  himself  deliciously  in  his  great  plumed  four-post  bed,  murmured 
"  What  a  pretty  room  !  "  and  freshened  the  frilled  silk  pillows  behind  him. 
Through  the  slim  parting  of  the  long  flowered  window  curtains,  he  caught 
a  peep  of  the  sun-lit  lawns  outside,  the  silver  fountains,  the  bright  flowers,  the 
gardeners  at  work,  and  beneath  the  shady  trees  some  early  breakfasters, 
dressed  for  a  day's  hunting  in  the  distant  wooded  valleys. 

"  How  sweet  it  all  is,"  exclaimed  the  Abbe,  yawning  with  infinite  content. 
Then  he  lay  back  in  his  bed,  stared  at  the  curious  patterned  canopy  above 
him  and  nursed  his  waking  thoughts. 

He  thought  of  the  "  Romaunt  de  la  Rose,"  beautiful,  but  all  too  brief. 
Of  the  Claude  in  Lady  Delaware's  collection.1 

Of  a  wonderful  pair  of  blonde  trousers  he  would  get  Madame  Belleville  to 
make  for  him. 

Of  a  mysterious  park  full  of  faint  echoes  and  romantic  sounds. 
Of  a  great  stagnant  lake  that  must  have  held   the  subtlest  frogs  that 
ever  were,  and  was  surrounded  with  dark  unreflected  trees,  and  sleeping  fleurs 
de  luce. 

Of  Saint  Rose,  the  well-known  Peruvian  virgin  ;  how  she  vowed  herself 

'  The  chef  d'ceuvre,  it  seems  to  mc,  of  an.  adorable  and  impeccable  master,  who  more  than 
any  other  landscape-painter  puts  us  out  of  conceit  with  our  cities,  and  makes  us  forget  the 
country  can  be  graceless  and  dull  and  tiresome.  That  he  should  ever  have  been  compared 
unfavourably  with  Turner — the  Wiertz  of  landscape-painting — seems  almost  incredible. 
Corot  is  Claude's  only  worthy  rival,  but  he  does  not  eclipse  or  supplant  the  earlier  master. 
A  painting  of  Corel's  is  like  an  exquisite  lyric  poem,  full  of  love  and  truth;  whilst  one  of 
Claude's  recalls  some  noble  eclogue  glowing  with  rich  concentrated  thought. 

M 


1 88  THE   SAVOY 

to  perpetual  virginity  when  she  was  four  years  old  l  ;  how  she  was  beloved 
by  Mary,  who  from  the  pale  fresco  in  the  Church  of  Saint  Dominic,  would 
stretch  out  her  arms  to  embrace  her  ;  how  she  built  a  little  oratory  at  the  end 
of  the  garden  and  prayed  and  sang  hymns  in  it  till  all  the  beetles,  spiders, 
snails  and  creeping  things  came  round  to  listen  ;  how  she  promised  to  marry 
Ferdinand  de  Flores,  and  on  the  bridal  morning  perfumed  herself  and  painted 
her  lips,  and  put  on  her  wedding  frock,  and  decked  her  hair  with  roses,  and 
went  up  to  a  little  hill  not  far  without  the  walls  of  Lima ;  how  she  knelt  there 
some  moments  calling  tenderly  upon  Our  Lady's  name,  and  how  Saint  Mary 
descended  and  kissed  Rose  upon  the  forehead  and  carried  her  up  swiftly 
into  heaven. 

He  thought  of  the  splendid  opening  of  Racine's  "  Britannicus." 
Of  a  strange  pamphlet  he  had  found  in  Helen's  library,  called  "  A  Plea  for 
the  Domestication  of  the  Unicorn." 
Of  the  "  Bacchanals  of  Sporion.2" 

1  "At  an  age"  writes  Dubonnet,  "when  girls  are  for  the  most  part  well  confirmed  in  all 
the  hateful  practices  of  coquetry,  and  attend  with  gusto,  rather  than  with  distaste,  the  hideous 
desires  and  terrible  satisfactions  of  men  /  " 

All  who  would  respire  the  perfumes  of  Saint  Rose's  sanctity,  and  enjoy  the  story  of  the 
adorable  intimacy  that  subsisted  between  her  and  Our  Lady,  should  read  Mother  Ursula's 
"Ineffable  and  Miraculous  Life  of  the  Floiuer  of  Lima,"  published  shortly  after  the  canoniza- 
tion of  Rose  by  Pope  Clement  X.  in  1671.  "  Truly,"  exclaims  the  famous  nun,  "to  chronicle 
the  girlhood  of  this  holy  virgin  makes  as  delicate  a  task  as  to  trace  the  forms  of  some  slim, 
sensitive  plant,  whose  lightness,  sweetness,  and  simplicity  defy  and  trouble  the  most  cunning 
pencil."  Mother  Ursula  certainly  acquits  herself  of  the  task  with  wonderful  delicacy  and 
taste.     A  cheap  reprint  of  the  biography  has  lately  been  brought  out  by  Chaillot  and  Son. 

2  A  comedy  ballet  in  one  act  by  Philippe  Savaral  and  Titurel  de  Scluntefleur.  The 
Marquis  de  Vande'sir,  who  was  present  at  the  first  performance,  has  left  us  a  short  impression 
of  it  in  his  Mdmoires  : 

"  The  curtain  rose  upon  a  scene  of  rare  beauty,  a  remote  Arcadian  valley,  a 
delicious  scrap  of  Tempe,  gracious  with  cool  woods  and  watered  with  a  little  river  as 
fresh  and  pastoral  as  a  perfect  fifth.  It  was  early  morning  and  the  re-arisen  sun,  like 
the  prince  in  the  Sleeping  Beauty,  woke  all  the  earth  with  his  lips. 

"  In  that  golden  embrace  the  night  dews  were  caught  up  and  made  splendid,  the 
trees  were  awakened  from  their  obscure  dreams,  the  slumber  of  the  birds  was  broken, 
and  all  the  flowers  of  the  valley  rejoiced,  forgetting  their  fear  of  the  darkness. 

"  Suddenly  to  the  music  of  pipe  and  horn  a  troop  of  satyrs  stepped  out  from  the 
recesses  of  the  woods  bearing  in  their  hands  nuts  and  green  boughs  and  flowers  and 
roots,  and  whatsoever  the  forest  yielded,  to  heap  upon  the  altar  of  the  mysterious  Pan 
that  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  stage ;  and  from  the  hills  came  down  the  shepherds  and 
shepherdesses  leading  their  flocks  and  carrying  garlands  upon  their  crooks.  Then  a 
rustic  priest,  white  robed  and  venerable,  came  slowly  across  the  valley  followed  by  a 


UNDER    THE    HILL  191 

Of  Morales'  Madonnas  with  their  high  egg-shaped  creamy  foreheads  and 
well-crimped  silken  hair. 

Of  Rossini's  "  Stabat  Mater"  (that  delightful  demode"  piece  of  decadence, 
with  a  quality  in  its  music  like  the  bloom  upon  wax  fruit). 

Of  love,  and  of  a  hundred  other  things. 

choir  of  radiant  children.  The  scene  was  admirably  stage-managed  and  nothing  could 
have  been  more  varied  yet  harmonious  than  this  Arcadian  group.  The  service  was 
quaint  and  simple,  but  with  sufficient  ritual  to  give  the  corps  de  ballet  an  opportunity 
of  showing  its  dainty  skill.  The  dancing  of  the  satyrs  was  received  with  huge  favour, 
and  when  the  priest  raised  his  hand  in  final  blessing,  the  whole  troop  of  worshippers 
made  such  an  intricate  and  elegant  exit,  that  it  was  generally  agreed  that  Titurel  had 
never  before  shown  so  fine  an  invention. 

"  Scarcely  had  the  stage  been  empty  for  a  moment,  when  Sporion  entered,  followed 
by  a  brilliant  rout  of  dandies  and  smart  women.  Sporion  was  a  tall,  slim,  depraved 
young  man  with  a  slight  stoop,  a  troubled  walk,  an  oval  impassable  face  with  its  olive 
skin  drawn  lightly  over  the  bone,  strong,  scarlet  lips,  long  Japanese  eyes,  and  a  great 
gilt  toupet.  Round  his  shoulders  hung  a  high-collared  satin  cape  of  salmon  pink  with 
long  black  ribbands  untied  and  floating  about  his  body.  His  coat  of  sea  green  spotted 
muslin  was  caught  in  at  the  waist  by  a  scarlet  sash  with  scalloped  edges  and  frilled  out 
over  the  hips  for  about  six  inches.  His  trousers,  loose  and  wrinkled,  reached  to  the 
end  of  the  calf,  and  were  brocaded  down  the  sides  and  niched  magnificently  at  the 
ankles.  The  stockings  were  of  white  kid  with  stalls  for  the  toes,  and  had  delicate  red 
sandals'strapped  over  them.  But  his  little  hands,  peeping  out  from  their  frills,  seemed 
quite  the  most  insinuating  things,  such  supple  fingers  tapering  to  the  point  with  tiny- 
nails  stained  pink,  such  unquenchable  palms  lined  and  mounted  like  Lord  Fanny's  in 
'  Love  at  all  Hazards,'  and  such  blue-veined  hairless  backs  !  In  his  left  hand  he  carried 
a  small  lace  handkerchief  broidered  with  a  coronet. 

"  As  for  his  friends  and  followers,  they  made  the  most  superb  and  insolent  crowd 
imaginable,  but  to  catalogue  the  clothes  they  had  on  would  require  a  chapter  as  long  as 
the  famous  tenth  in  Penilliere's  'History  of  Underlinen.'  On  the  whole  they  looked 
a  very  distinguished  choru  s. 

"  Sporion  stepped  forward  and  explained  with  swift  and  various  gesture  that  he 
and  his  friends  were  tired  of  the  amusements,  wearied  with  the  poor  pleasures  offered 
by  the  civil  world,  and  had  invaded  the  Arcadian  valley  hoping  to  experience  a  new 
frisson  in  the  destruction  of  some  shepherd's  or  some  satyr's  naivete,  and  the  infusion 
of  their  venom  among  the  dwellers  of  the  woods. 

"  The  chorus  assented  with  languid  but  expressive  movements. 

"  Curious  and  not  a  little  frightened  at  the  arrival  of  the  worldly  company,  the 
sylvans  began  to  peep  nervously  at  those  subtle  souls  through  the  branches  of  the  trees, 
and  one  or  two  fauns  and  a  shepherd  or  so  crept  out  warily.  Sporion  and  all  the 
ladies  and  gentlemen  made  enticing  sounds  and  invited  the  rustic  creatures  with  all  the 
grace  in  the  world  to  come  and  join  them.     By  little  batches  they  came,  lured  by  the 


192  THE   SAVOY 

Then  his  half-closed  eyes  wandered  among  the  prints  that  hung  upon  the 
rose-striped  walls.  Within  the  delicate  curved  frames  lived  the  corrupt  and 
gracious  creatures  of  Dorat  and  his  school,  slender  children  in  masque  and 
domino  smiling  horribly,  exquisite  letchers  leaning  over  the  shoulders  of 
smooth  doll-like  girls  and  doing  nothing  in  particular,  terrible  little  Pierrots 
posing  as  lady  lovers  and  pointing  at  something  outside  the  picture,  and 
unearthly  fops  and  huge  bird-like  women  mingling  in  some  rococo  room, 
lighted  mysteriously  by  the  flicker  of  a  dying  fire  that  throws  great  shadows 
upon  wall  and  ceiling. 

Fanfreluche  had  taken  some  books  to  bed  with  him.  One  was  the  witty, 
extravagant,  "  Tuesday  and  Josephine,"  another  was  the  score  of  "  The 
Rheingold."  Making  a  pulpit  of  his  knees  he  propped  up  the  opera  before 
him  and  turned  over  the  pages  with  a  loving  hand,  and  found  it  delicious  to 
attack  Wagner's  brilliant  comedy  with  the  cool  head  of  the  morning.'  Once  more 
he  was  ravished  with  the  beauty  and  wit  of  the  opening  scene  ;  the  mystery 
of  its  prelude  that  seems  to  come  up  from  the  very  mud  of  the  Rhine,  and  to 
be  as  ancient,  the  abominable  primitive  wantonness  of  the  music  that  follows 
the  talk  and  movements  of  the  Rhine-maidens,  the  black,  hateful  sounds  of 
Alberic's  love-making,  and  the  flowing  melody  of  the  river  of  legends. 

But  it  was  the  third  tableau  that  he  applauded  most  that  morning, 
the  scene  where  Loge,  like  some  flamboyant  primeval   Scapin,  practises  his 

strange  looks,  by  the  scents  and  the  drugs,  and  by  the  brilliant  clothes,  and  some 
ventured  quite  near,  timorously  fingering  the  delicious  textures  of  the  stuffs.  Then 
Sporion  and  each  of  his  friends  took  a  satyr  or  a  shepherdess  or  something  by  the  hand 
and  made  the  preliminary  steps  of  a  courtly  measure,  for  which  the  most  admirable 
combinations  had  been  invented  and  the  most  charming  music  written.  The  pastoral 
folk  were  entirely  bewildered  when  they  saw  such  restrained  and  graceful  movements, 
and  made  the  most  grotesque  and  futile  efforts  to  imitate  them.  Dio  mio,  a  pretty 
sight  !  A  charming  effect  too,  was  obtained  by  the  intermixture  of  stockinged  calf  and 
hairy  leg,  of  rich  brocaded  bodice  and  plain  blouse,  of  tortured  head-dress  and  loose 
untutored  locks. 

"  When  the  dance  was  ended  the  servants  of  Sporion  brought  on  champagne,  and 
with  many  pirouettes  poured  it  magnificently  into  slender  glasses,  and  tripped  about 
plying  those  Arcadian  mouths  that  had  never  before  tasted  such  a  royal  drink. 

"  Then  the  curtain  fell  with  a  pudic  rapidity." 

1  //  is  a  thousand  pities  that  concerts  should  only  be  given  either  in  the  afternoon,  when 
you  are  torpid,  or  in  the  evening,  when  you  are  nervous.  Surely  you  should  assist  at  fine 
music  as  you  assist  at  the  Mass — before  noon — when  your  brain  and  heart  are  not  too  troubled 
and  tired  with  the  secular  influences  of  the  growing  day. 


UNDER    THE   HI  LI.  195 

cunning  upon  Alberic.  The  feverish  insistent  ringing  of  the  hammers  at  the 
forge,  the  dry  staccato  restlessness  of  Mime,  the  ceaseless  coming  and  going  of 
the  troup  of  Niblungs,  drawn  hither  and  thither  like  a  flock  of  terror-stricken 
and  infernal  sheep,  Alberic's  savage  activity  and  metamorphoses,  and  Loge's 
rapid,  flaming  tongue-like  movements,  make  the  tableau  the  least  reposeful, 
most  troubled  and  confusing  thing  in  the  whole  range  of  opera.  How  the 
Abbe  rejoiced  in  the  extravagant  monstrous  poetry,  the  heated  melodrama, 
and  splendid  agitation  of  it  all ! 

At  eleven  o'clock  Fanfreluche  got  up  and  slipped  off  his  dainty  night-dress. 

His  bathroom  was  the  largest  and  perhaps  the  most  beautiful  apartment 
in  his  splendid  suite.  The  well-known  engraving  by  Lorette  that  forms  the 
frontispiece  to  Millevoye's  "  Architecture  du  XVIII""  siecle  "  will  give  you  a 
better  idea  than  any  words  of  mine  of  the  construction  and  decoration  of  the 
room.  Only  in  Lorette's  engraving  the  bath  sunk  into  the  middle  of  the  floor 
is  a  little  too  small. 

Fanfreluche  stood  for  a  moment  like  Narcissus  gazing  at  his  reflection  in 
the  still  scented  water,  and  then  just  ruffling  its  smooth  surface  with  one  foot, 
stepped  elegantly  into  the  cool  basin  and  swam  round  it  twice  very  gracefully. 
However,  it  is  not  so  much  at  the  very  bath  itself  as  in  the  drying  and  delicious 
frictions  that  a  bather  finds  his  chiefest  joys,  and  Helen  had  appointed  her 
most  tried  attendants  to  wait  upon  Fanfreluche.  He  was  more  than  satisfied 
with  their  attention,  that  aroused  feelings  within  him  almost  amounting  to 
gratitude,  and  when  the  rites  were  ended  any  touch  of  home-sickness  he  might 
have  felt  was  utterly  dispelled.  After  he  had  rested  a  little,  and  sipped  his 
chocolate,  he  wandered  into  the  dressing-room,  where,  under  the  direction  of 
the  superb  Dancourt,  his  toilet  was  completed. 

As  pleased  as  Lord  Foppington  with  his  appearance,  the  Abbe  tripped  off 
to  bid  good-morning  to  Helen.  He  found  her  in  a  sweet  white  muslin  frock, 
wandering  upon  the  lawn,  and  plucking  flowers  to  deck  her  breakfast  table.  He 
kissed  her  lightly  upon  the  neck. 

"  I'm  just  going  to  feed  Adolphe,"  she  said,  pointing  to  a  little  reticule  of 
buns  that  hung  from  her  arm.  Adolphe  was  her  pet  unicorn.  "  He  is  such  a 
dear,"  she  continued  ;  "  milk  white  all  over,  excepting  his  nose,  mouth,  and 
nostrils.  This  way."  The  unicorn  had  a  very  pretty  palace  of  its  own  made 
of  green  foliage  and  golden  bars,  a  fitting  home  for  such  a  delicate  and  dainty 
beast.  Ah,  it  was  a  splendid  thing  to  watch  the  white  creature  roaming  in  its 
artful  cage,  proud  and  beautiful,  knowing  no  mate,  and  coming  to  no  hand 
except  the  queen's  itself.     As   Fanfreluche  and  Helen  approached,  Adolphe 


196  THE  SAVOY 

began  prancing  and  curvetting,  pawing  the  soft  turf  with  his  ivory  hoofs  and 
flaunting  his  tail  like  a  gonfalon.     Helen  raised  the  latch  and  entered. 

"  You  mustn't  come  in  with  me,  Adolphe  is  so  jealous,"  she  said,  turning 
to  the  Abbe,  who  was  following  her,  "  but  you  can  stand  outside  and  look  on  ; 
Adolphe  likes  an  audience."  Then  in  her  delicious  fingers  she  broke  the 
spicy  buns  and  with  affectionate  niceness  breakfasted  her  snowy  pet.  When 
the  last  crumbs  had  been  scattered,  Helen  brushed  her  hands  together  and 
pretended  to  leave  the  cage  without  taking  any  further  notice  of  Adolphe. 
Adolphe  snorted. 

Aubrey  Beardslev. 


PUBLISHER'S    NOTE 

Monsieur  J.  E.  BLANCHE  desires  to  state  that  the  reproduction  of  his  picture, 
"  The  Painter  Thaulow  and  his  Family,"  in  the  first  number  of  "  The  Savoy," 
was  made  from  a  reduced  photograph,  the  cliche  of  which  had  to  be  re-touched 
without  comparison  with  the  original. 


It  is  regretted  that  owing  to  Mr.  Beardsley's  illness  he  has  been  unable  to 
finish  one  of  his  full-page  drawings  to  Chapter  IV.  of  "  Under  the  Hill," 
i.e.,  "  The  Bacchanals  of  Sporion,"  and  that  its  publication  in  consequence  has 
had  to  be  postponed  to  No.  3  of  "The  Savoy." 


For  the  convenience  of  such  subscribers  as  desire  to  bind  up  "  The 
Savoy  "  into  volumes,  is  appended  a  print  of  the  covers  of  Nos.  1  and  2, 
pulled  on  white  paper,  which  may  be  bound  in,  in  substitution  for  the  pink 
cardboard  covers. 


THE   SAVOY— ADVERTISEMENTS  203 

THE    SAVOY. 

A  New  Illustrated  Quarterly.     Edited  by  Arthur  Sy.mons. 

No.  I.    JANUARY,  1896. 

170  pages,  18  full-page  Illustrations,  and  5  Illustrations  in  the  Text. 

Crtnvn  quarto,  bound  in  pictorial  cover,  2S.  6d.  net. 

No.  I.  contains  literary  contributions  by  G.  Bernard  Shaw,  Frederick  Wedmore,  Paul  Yerlaine, 
Max  Beerbohm,  Ernest  Dowson,  Aubrey  Beardsley,  Havelock  Ellis,  \V.  B.  Yeats,  Rudolf  Dircks. 
Mathilde  Blind,  Joseph  Pennell,  Humphrey  James,  Selwyn  Image,  and  the  Editor.  The  illustra- 
tions include  work  by  Charles  H.  Shannon,  Charles  Conder,  Joseph  Pennell,  Louis  Oury, 
W.  Rothenstein,  F.  Sandys,  J.  McNeill  Whistler,  Max  Beerbohm,  Jacques  E.  Blanche,  J.  Lemmen, 
and  Eleven  Drawings  by  Aubrey  Beardsley. 

EXTRACTS    FROM    PRESS   NOTICES    ON    No.    I.    OF   "THE    SAVOY." 

"  There  is  not  an  article  in  the  volume  that  one  can  put  down  without  feeling  the  better  and  the  purer  for  it  ...  . 
should  be  on  every  schoolroom  table ;  every  mother  should  present  it  to  her  daughter,  for  it  is  bound  to  have  an  en- 
nobling and  purifying  influence." — Punch. 

"  The  first  number  of  a  new  literary  and  artistic  venture  is  before  us.  We  should  describe  it  briefly  as  a  '  Yellow 
Book '  redeemed  of  its  puerilities — as  a  '  Pageant '  in  which  the  illustrations  are  mainly  original.  The  audacious 
'decadence1  of  Mr.  Aubrey  Beardsley  cannot  blind  the  critic  to  the  splendid  decorative  effect  of  his  composition,  his 
pattern,  his  '  idea.'  The  caricature  of  Mr.  Beerbohm  Tree  by  his  younger  brother,  Max  Beerbohm,  is  very  delightful, 
without  transcending  the  bounds  of  good  taste.  The  eighteenth  century  sketch  by  Charles  Conder  wears  the  very  spirit 
of  the  time.  Of  the  literary  contents  Mr.  Bernard  Shaw's  witty  diatribe  on  '  Going  to  Church '  is  the  most  purely 
literary,  while  Mr.  Arthur  Symons'  verses  perhaps  give  us  the  most  content.  Articles  of  considerable  note  are  contri- 
buted by  Messrs.  Havelock  Ellis  and  Selwyn  Image,  while  the  inevitable  '  story-teller '  of  the  modern  periodical  is 
perhaps  best  found  in  Mr.  Ernest  Dowson.  Not  that  Messrs.  Wedmore,  James,  and  Dircks  are  below  the  average  of 
these  things.  Quite  the  contrary.  Only  somehow  after  Guy  de  Maupassant  and  Catulle  Mendes,  one  feels  that  the 
English  short  story  is  never  quite  a  success.  The  short  poems  by  Mathilde  Blind,  W.  B.  Yeats,  and  Aubrey  Beardsley 
are  '  of  the  quality,'  and  the  entire  production  does  great  credit  to  the  editors,  artistic  and  literary.  The  price,  2s.  6</., 
is  singularly  low,  as  rival  works  of  the  same  type  are  5*.  and  6s.,  without  at  any  rate  surpassing  the  attractiveness  of 
'  The  Savoy.'     We  wish  our  new  contemporary  good  speed  and — '  sempre  avanti  Savoya  ! ' " — Sunday  Times. 

"The  best  thing  by  far  is  Mr.  Bernard  Shaw's  article  on  'Going  to  Church,'  which,  like  everything  written  by 
this  paradoxical  author,  is  not  only  clever,  but  thoroughly  sincere." — The  Times. 

"  '  The  Savoy '  declines  to  be  considered  an  offshoot  of  the  '  Yellow  Book,'  and  although  the  contributors  are  the 
same,  it  is  free  from  some  of  the  offences  of  the  older  periodical.  The  colour  of  the  cover  is  ugly,  but  the  quarto  page 
is  handsome,  and  the  volume  is  light.  The  chief  feature  is  the  first  instalment  of  a  story  by  Mr.  Aubrey  Beardsley, 
accompanied  by  some  exceedingly  clever  illustrations  by  the  writer.  Mr.  Yeats's  lines  are  characteristic  of  that 
notable  writer.  Mr.  Symons  contributes  a  clever  article  on  Dieppe  and  a  pleasant  translation  from  Verlaine." — The 
Alhetiuiim. 

"Though  Mr.  Aubrey  Beardsley  contributes  several  clever  illustrations,  the  new  quarterly,  called  'The  Savoy,'  is 
anything  but  a  repetition  of  an  old  enterprise.  In  form  and  character  the  serial  which  issues  from  the  house  of  Mr. 
Leonard  Smithers  is  as  novel  as  it  can  be.  As  to  its  '  get  up,'  it  has  a  large  page,  yet  is  delightfully  light  in  the  hand. 
It  is  not  thick  ;  very  little  of  the  writing  in  it  has  the  fault  of  diffuseness,  which  belongs  generally  to  bulk  ;  and  while 
some  of  its  contents  are  chiefly  entertaining,  others  are  of  a  not  less  worthy  gravity.  From  a  writer  of  the  distinction 
■  >f  Mr.  Arthur  Symons  we  had  good  reason  to  expect  refined  and  careful  editing,  nor  are  we  disappointed  of  it.  The 
commonplaces  of  literary  pessimism  and  the  easy  ingenuities  of  an  unsavoury  subject  (upon  which  reputations  of  a 
moment  have  been  built,  as  upon  sand),  are  alike  absent  from  '  The  Savoy.'  There  is  here  some  vivid,  highly-wrought 
prose  and  a  good  share  of  excellent  verse,  among  which,  at  the  present  time,  nothing  will  attract  more  attention  than  the 
editor's  own  charmingly  flexible  translation  of  a  poem  from  the  '  Fetes  Galantes'  of  Paul  Verlaine." — The  Academy. 

"  I  am  glad  to  notice,  in  the  first  number  of  '  The  Savoy '  magazine,  that  Mr.  Aubrey  Beardsley  has  discovered  a 
new  type  of  woman.  Unlike  her  predecessors  in  his  artistic  affections,  she  is  almost  pretty,  and  docs  not  suggest  that 
her  nose  is  frequently  in  a  trough." — Sketch. 


LEONARD   SMITHERS,  Effingham  House,  Arundel  Street,  Strand,  WA  . 


204  THE   SAVOY— ADVERTISEMENTS 

London   Nights.      Poems  by  Arthur  Symons. 

Edition  consists  of  500  Small  Paper  copies  on  Large  Post  8vo  deckle-edged  paper,  bound  in 
dark  green  cloth,  at  Six  Shillings  net  per  copy ;  and  50  Large  Paper  copies  on  Royal  8vo  hand- 
made paper,  bound  in  dark  green  buckram,  at  One  Guinea  net  per  copy.  Printed  at  the 
Chiswick  P: . 

PRESS   NOTICES   ON   "LONDON   NIGHTS." 

"  Those  who  have  learned  from  his  former  volumes  to  know  Mr.  Symons  as  a  careful  maker  of  melodious  verse, 
net  without  a  gift  of  direct  vision,  and  often  distinguished  by  some  felicity  of  expression,  will  open,  as  we  did,  his  new 
book  of  poems  with  considerable  expectations.  Nor  will  any  student  of  verse,  simply  as  verse,  be  disappointed.  Mr. 
Symons  is  no  unskilled  metricist.  He  has  learned  the  secret  of  the  melody  of  simple  metres,  and  he  uses  his  knowledge 
often  with  unquestionable  success.  He  has  learned,  too,  the  value  of  simplicity  of  language,  and  in  such  verse  as 
•  White  Magic,"  '  Memory,'  and  '  At  the  Ambassadeurs,'  he  hits  the  mark. " — Saturday  Review. 

'"London   I    g  Arthur  Symons,  is  a  very  dainty,  very  clever  volume  of  verses,  mainly  descriptive  of 

various  female  characters — fickle,  fleeting,  beautiful,  intensely  human,  and  of  course,  not  unsuspectable,  and  therefore 
tormenringly  unsatisfactory." — Glasgow  Herald. 

"  '  Nuits  de  Londres,'  ainsi  s'intitule  le  nouveau  livre  du  delicat  et  vivant  poete.  Mais  n'allez  pas  en  conclure  a 
des  tenebres  de  'fog'  et  de  'mist,'  a  des  scenes  lugubres  ou  brutales.  Imaginez  ou,  comme  dit  l'Anglais,  'realisez,' 
an  contraire,  tout  le  tz.~  lat  de  la  vie  nocturne  d'un  fantaisiste  elegant,  epris  du  joli,  du  coquet — et  du 

Beau,  panni  les  splendeurs  d'un  Londres  intelligemment  viveur,  d'un  Londres  modeme  a  l'extreme  et  le  plus  parisien 
possible,  avec  la  nuance  anglaise,  toutefois,  distinction  supreme,  veux-je  le  dire,  dans  le  style,  joyeux  parfois,  leger,  qui 
sait  so-.  ;:  sans  jamais  's'emballer'  jusqu'a  meme  nn  soupcon  de  gaiete  quelque  peu  grasse." — Paul 

Yebaaixe,  in  the  Revue  Eniychfidiaue. 

Silhouettes.      By  Arthur  Symons. 

Second  edition.  Carefully  revised  and  enlarged  by  the  addition  of  Nineteen  New  Poems. 
Uniform  with  "  London  Nights." 

Mr.  Symoxs'  new  volume  of  Poems,  printed  at  the  Chiswick  Press,  is  now  ready  for  delivery. 
The  edition  consists  of  400  Small  Paper  copies  on  Large  Post  8vo  deckle-edged  paper,  bound  in 
dark  green  cloth,  at  Five  Shillings  net  per  copy;  and  15  Large  Paper  copies  on  Royal  8vo  hand- 
made paper,  bound  in  dark  green  buckram,  at  One  Guinea  net  per  copy. 

"There  is  enough  new  matter  in  the  new  edition  of  Mr.  Arthur  Symons'  'Silhouettes'  to  make  the  second 
edition  of  that  collection  of  decadent  lyrics  a  different  book  from  what  it  was  when  it  first  came  out." — Scotsman. 


The    Rape    of   the    Lock.     By  Alexander    Pope. 
Illustrated  by  Aubrey   Beardsley. 

Mr.  Leonard  Smithers  begs  to  announce  the  publication  of  an  Edition  de  Luxe  of  the  above 
famous  Poem,  printed  at  the  Chiswick  Press,  in  Crown  4to  size,  on  old  style  paper,  illustrated  with 
nine  elaborate  drawings  by  Mr.  Aubrey  Beardsley,  and  bound  in  a  specially  designed  cloth  cover. 
(For  Specimen  Drawing  see  page  in  in  this  volume).  The  edition  is  a  limited  one,  and  the  price 
is  Ten  Shillings  and  Sixpence  net  per  copy.  Twenty-five  copies  are  printed  on  Japanese  Vellum, 
and  are  offered  at  Two  Guineas  net  per  copy.  Only  5  copies  on  Japanese  Vellum  now  remain 
unsubscribed  for.     Now  1  : 

Orchids.      Poems  by  Theodore  Wratislaw. 

Edition  consists  of  250  Small  Paper  copies  on  Foolscap  8vo  deckle-edged  paper,  bound  in 
cream-coloured  art  linen,  at  Five  Shillings  net  per  copy;   and  10  copies  printed   on  Japanese 
...  at  One  Guinea  net  ptr  copy.     Printed  at  the  Chiswick  Press.     Now  ready. 


THE   SAVOY— ADVERTISEMENTS  205 

Caprices.     Poems  by  Theodore  Wratislaw. 

Edition  consists  of  100  copies  on  Foolscap  8vo  hand-made  paper,  bound  in  parchment,  at  Five 
Shillings  net  per  copy ;  and  20  copies  on  Japanese  Vellum,  in  similar  binding,  at  One  Guinea  net 
per  copy. 

The  fciv  remaining  copies  have  been  transferred  to  me,  from  their  late  Publishers,  by  the  Author. 

"Mr.  Wratislaw  uses  the  most  difficult  metres,  the  least  manageable  verse  forms,  with  the  rarest  facility 

However  bizarre  the  subject  matter,  the  manner  is  admirably  sedate,  admirably  restrained His  ear  is  curiously 

sensitive,  and  if  he  rarely  obtains  absolute  orchestration,  he  produces  delicious  melodies,  as  it  were,  on  violin  and 

Bute It  may  well  be  thai  Mr.  Wratislaw's  l««>k  will  lie  found  shocking  to  some,  irritating  to  many.     Some 

emphatic  impression,  whether  of  pain  or  of  pleasure,  it  will  leave  on  all." — C.  T.  J.  IIiatt,  in  Artist,  January,  1894. 


Nocturnes  and  Pastorals.     Poems  by  A.  Bernard 

Mi  all. 

Edition  consists  of  400  copies  on  Large  Post  8vo  deckle-edged  paper,  bound  in  dark  green 
cloth,  at  Five  Shillings  net  per  copy.     Printed  at  the  Chiswick  Press.     Now  ready. 

THE  ONLY  RELIABLE  WORK  ON  THE  SUBJECT  IN  THE  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE. 

The  Life  and  Times  of  Madame  Du  Barry. 

By  Robert   B.   Douglas. 

A  limited  edition  in  one  volume,  with  a  portrait  of  Madame  Du  Barry  finely  engraved  upon 
wood,  394  pages,  Demy  8vo,  bound  in  blue  cloth  with  armorial  cover  design  by  Aubrey  Beardsley. 
Now  ready. 

Price  SIXTEEN  SHILLINGS  net  per  copy. 

IN  PREPARATION 

VERSES.     By  Ernest  Dovvson. 

THE    PIERROT    OF   THE    MINUTE.     A  Dramatic  Phantasy  by  Ernest  Dowson. 

LA  FILLE  AUX  YEUX  D'OR.  Translated  from  the  French  of  Honort)  de  Balzac  by 
Ernest  Dowson,  and  illustrated  with  Six  Designs  by  Charles  Conder,  finely  engraved 
upon  wood. 

THE    FOOL    AND    HIS    HEART.     A  Novel  by  F.  Norreys  Connell. 

CARICATURES  OF  TWENTY-FIVE  GENTLEMEN.  By  Max  Beerboh.m. 
Finely  engraved  upon  wood.     (For  specimen,  see  p.  161  in  this  volume.) 

THE  SOUVENIRS  OF  LEONARD,  COIFFEUR  TO  QUEEN  MARIE 
ANTOINETTE.     Translated  by  Alexander  Teixeira  de  Mattos. 

A    BOOK    OF    BARGAINS.     Stories  by  Vincent  O'Suli.ivan. 

A    NEW    VOLUME    OF    VERSE.     By  Arthur  Symons. 


Circulars  of  any  of  the  above  books  will  be  sent  on  application  to 
LEONARD   SMITHERS,  Effingham   House,  Arundel  Street,  Strand,  London,  W.C. 


206 


THE    SA  VO  Y—AD  VER  Tl SEMEN  TS 


I 


fiiiSi 


