CHILDREN'S    BOOK 
COLLECTION 


LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


^ 


-  -  -   . 


A  3fAP    OF 


SCENES  IN  AMERICA, 

FOR  THE 

AMUSEMENT  AND  INSTRUCTION 

OF  LITTLE 

TARRY-AT-HOME  TRAVELLERS. 


BY  THE 

REV    ISAAC  TAYLOR, 


HARTFORD: 

PUBLISHED   BY  S.  ANDRUS  &  SON. 

1848. 


INTRODUCTION. 


ONCE  again  your  friend  a  hearing 
Claims  from  you,  my  little  miss  ; 

With  a  volume  neat  appearing,, 
FuL  of  pictures,  see,  'tis  this. 

Long  ago  he  gave  a  promise 

O'er  America  to  roam  ; 
Travelling  far  and  wide,  tho'  from  his 

House,  ne'er  moving,  still  at  home. 

Yet  o'er  many  a  volume  poring, 
Such  as  you  could  hardly  read  ; 

Distant  realms  and  climes  exploring, 
Your  inquiring  minds  to  feed. 

He  has  travelled  thro'  and  thro'  them. 

Often  wearied  with  his  toil ; 
That  at  ease  you  here  might  view  them, 

Gath'ring  knowledge  all  the  while. 

True  some  scenes  will  raise  your  laughter, 
They're  so  differenymd  so  strange : 

Yet  perhaps,  your  feelings  after, 
May  to  approbation  change. 


INTRODUCTION. 

Possibly  the  very  climate 

Forces  men  to  clumsy  modes  ; 

Frozen  blasts  appropriate  time  it, 
Thickening  dress,  or  dark  abodes. 

View  the  Ourtes  of  North  West  Coasters 
Buried  deep  beneath  the  ground  : 

They,  not  we,  may  be  the  boasters 
If  thus  warmth  and  life  are  found. 

While  the  sun's  o'er-head  direction 
Makes  West  Indian  natives  pant, 

Need  they  under-ground  protection  ? — 
'Tis  the  cooling  breeze  they  want. 

Wonder  not  if  but  a  feather      .-J* ..; ;, 
Seems  a  dress  for  Hayti  beaux ; 

While  the  fierce  and  stormy  weather 
Wraps  in  fur  the  Esquimaux. 

From  the  icy  northern  ocean 

Southward,  to  Darien  turn  ; 
Sluggish  some  are,  some  all  motion  ; 

There  they  freeze,  and  here  they  burn 

Go  still  southward,  climes  are  colder, 
Ice  locks  up  Magellan's  Straits  : — 

Hardships  make  the  natives  bolder, 
Warmth  dissolving  strength  abates. 


INTRODUCTION. 

View  the  roving  Indian  fighting, 
Hunting  wild  his  scanty  food  : 

But  bis  senses  sharpen,  brighten, 
Agile,  tho'  of  manners  rude. 

Mexico  with  gold  resplendent, 

Rich  Peru  in  brilliance  shines  : — 

Riches  make  them  weak,  dependent. 
Mind  seems  buried  in  their  mines. 

Thus  abundance,  and  privation, 
Changing,  mingling,  balance  well : 

Where  exists  a  perfect  nation  ; 
Each  in  something  can  excel. 

Let  us  strive  to  learn  by  reading. 
That  ourselves  may  wiser  grow  • 

Better  manners,  better  breeding, 
Let  our  daily  conduct  show. 

They  are  sad  barbarians  truly 

Who  untaught  and  savage  roam:—- 

Worse  are  they,  examined  duly, 
Who  refuse  to  learn  at  home. 

Those  who  never  saw  a  letter, 
Ignorant,  and  dull  may  be  : — 

But  we  hope  for  something  better 
Where  we  education  see. 


INTRODUCTION. 

Are  you  then  all  hoity  toity, 

Or  a  gentle,  worthy  child  ; 
Fit  to  grace  genteel  society, 

Or  to  run  in  desarts  wild. 

Ask  your  parents,  playmates,  sisters, 
If  your  conduct  they  approve  ; 

Little  misses,  little  misters, 
Do  they  fear,  or  do  they  love. 

Rank  is  marked  by  knowledge,  goodness. 

Not  by  riches,  or  by  name  ; 
Worst  of  Indians  they,  whose  rudeness. 

Makes  their  friends  to  cry  out  *;  bhome. ' 


SCENES  IN  AMERICA. 


1.  Portrait  of  Christopher  Columbus. 

Portraits  of  heroes  who  the  world  destroyed, 

And  raised  themselves  right  famous  by  their  crimes; 
Making  of  regions  fair  an  empty  void, 

Are  prized  : — of  ancient,  or  of  modern  times. 

Shall  we  not  rather  prize,  the  man  who  gave 
A  world  he  found  himself,  in  western  skies  ? 

Who  pierced  thro'  unknown  seas,  sublimely  brave  • 
Nor  turned,  nor  doubted,  till  he  saw  it  rise. 

Methinks  old  Ocean  from  his  oozy  bed, 

Must  startle,  when  th'  adventurous  prow  was  seen, 

Foaming  the  waters  o'er  his  ancient  head ; 
Disturbing  his  domain  of  liquid  green. 


8  COLUMBUS. 

Long  had  he  slept,  untroubled  his  repose  ; 

The  light  canoe  was  nothing  he  could  feel ;     - 
The  refluent  tides  might  wake  his  slumbering  doze  ; 

Or  fierce  tornadoes  make  bis  palace  reel. 

Unnumbered  keels  the  liquid  surface  cleave, 
Since  thou  Columbus,  showed  the  daring  way, 

With  loaded  fleets  his  struggling  waters  heave  ; 
And  Britain's  thunders  claim  the  trident  sway. 

We  have  several  times  glanced  at  Colum- 
bus. We  have  seen  him  struggling  through 
all  the  learning  of  the  times,  determined  to 
understand  all  that  was  then  known,  respecting 
navigation,  and  the  shape  and  situation  of  the 
various  parts  of  our  earth.  Yet  like  a  true 
genius  he  was  not  satisfied,  where  no  satisfac- 
tion is  given.  He  found  he  was  obliged  to 
think  for  himself.  All  his  reasoning  led  him 
to  surmise,  that  looking  westward,  he  must 
reach  the  Indies  if  he  went  straight  forward, 
supposing  all  were  open  sea,  and  nothing  were 
to  intervene :  and  if  there  were  lands  and  na- 
tions between  them,  in  keeping  his  course  due 
west  he  must  come  upon  them,  and  find  them 
out ;  what  they  were,  and  how  placed.  Many 


S; 


COLUMBUS.  9 

a  day  dream  had  he  indulged;  till,  his  mind 
becoming  all  on  fire  with  the  subject,  he  re- 
solved to  explain  his  scheme,  to  such  persons 
as  might  help  Jiim  to  give  it  a  fair  trial. 

He  was  a  Genoese  by  birth,  and  with  true 
patriotism,  he  made  the  first  offer  of  his  grand 
discovery  to  his  native  country.  But  the  no- 
bles of  Genoa,  though  sufficiently  rich,  and 
proud,  did  not  abound  in  science,  and  learn- 
ing: and  as  it  is  easier  with  some  to  call 
names,  than  to  reason,  they  pronounced  him 
an  absurd  speculator,  and  sent  him  off.  This 
did  riot  convince  him  that  his  scheme  was 
wrong.  He  applied  to  other  powers,  he  met 
with  many  rebuffs,  much  contempt,  and  delay  ; 
and  at  last  was  furnished  by  Isabella,  queen 
of  Castile  in  Spain,  with  three  small  vessels, 
utterly  unfit  for  so  important,  so  hazardous  an 
undertaking,  in  1492. 

Contemplate  him  however  having  actually  set 
sail,  and  pressing  onward  due  west,  penetrating 
into  unknown  seas. — Are  all  his  difficulties  now 
ended  ?  Alas  he  had  to  contend  with  the  ig- 
norance of  his  seamen,  with  their  absurd  fears, 
and  superstitious  notions.  Columbus  as  a  great 
man,  bore  it  all  with  magnanimity;  calmly 


10  COLUMBUS. 

reasoning  when  they  would  listen  to  him,  and 
making  the  best  of  every  circumstance  as  it 
arose.  He  sailed  five  weeks,  continuing  his 
course,  till  he  was  above  5000  miles  distant 
from  home. 

At  last  behold  the  object  of  all  his  hopes, 
labours,  and  sufferings.  On  the  morning  of 
October  12  he  distinctly  saw  stretched  before 
him,  the  new  world,  after  which  his  imagination 
had  so  long  panted. 

Bright  rose  the  cheerful  morning, 

The  Sun  in  brilliance  gay 
The  new  found  world  adorning, 

Bade  every  beauty  play. 

*Twas  after  many  a  season 

Of  midnight  dark  and  dull ; 
That  science,  courage,  reason, 

Obtained  this  victory  full. 

So  brighter  was  the  beaming 

Of  joy  and  rapturous  glee  : 
'Twas  sober  truth,  not  dreaming  ; 

What  every  eye  could  see. 

The  shores'  long  length  delighted, 
Green  hills,  and  mountains  blue  ; 


COLUMBUS.      .  1 1 

The  Indian  half  affrighted, 
Aghast  at  things  so  new. 

COLUMBUS,  'twas  a  feeling 

Could  pay  for  toil  and  blame  j 
Thy  wisdom  clear  revealing, 
*•  And  giving  deathless  fame. 

2.  Columbus  first  Landing. 

With  great  alacrity  the  boats  were  ordered 
out.  Columbus  got  into  the  principal  boat, 
being  accompanied  by  a  band  of  armed  men, 
with  flags  flying,  and  martial  music  sounding. 

As  they  drew  near  the  shore,  they  found  it 
covered  with  vast  numbers  of  the  simple  na- 
tives ;  whose  curiosity  was  greatly  excited  by 
such  strange  visitors,  in  every  respect  so  differ- 
ent from  themselves. 

Columbus  on  this  occasion  dressed  himself 
m  his  best  apparel.  With  a  drawn  sword  in 
his  hand,  he  stepped  out  of  the  boat,  and  had 
the  pleasure  of  feeling  himself  on  the  firm 
ground,  in  his  new  world.  It  is  impossible  for 
us  to  enter  into  his  feelings.  As  a  pious  man, 
his  first  emotions  were  gratioide  to  God,  who 


f2  COLUMBUS. 

had  made  his  voyage  prosperous.  All  his  com* 
panions  joined  him  in  this  feeling,  and  the 
whole  company  knelt  down,  and  with  enthusi- 
asm kissed  the  shore,  on  which  they  had  so 
happily  landed. 

During  all  this,  the  simple  natives  stood 
gazing  around.  Looking  with  amazement, 
sometimes  at  the  strange  beings  hefore  them, 
sometimes  at  the  floating  houses  in  which  they 
came. 

The  natives  were  of  a  dark  copper  colour. 
They  were  mostly  naked,  except  as  they  were 
gaily  ornamented  with  feathers,  shells,  and  bits 
of  gold. 

Soon  the  Spaniards  began  to  make  them  pre- 
sents of  glass  beads,  ribands,  and  showy  toys, 
of  a  similar  value.  For  these  ihe  ignorant 
creatures  were  willing  to  part  with  any  thin£ 
they  possessed.  The  grand  object  of  the  ava- 
ricious Spaniards  was  the  gold,  which  in  sfl 
plenteous  a  manner  the  natives  wore,  as  rings, 
bracelets,  and  broad  plates.  And  the  constant 
inquiry  was  after  the  country  from  which  it 
was  procured.  They  affirmed  that  there  was 
none  in  their  islands,  but  pointed  continually  to 


COLUMBUS.  13 

countries  southward,  where  they  said  gold  was 
plentiful  enough. 

They  kept,  therefore,  steering  southward, 
till  they  came  to  a  very  large  island ;  not  flat 
like  those  they  had  seen  already,  hut  consisting 
of  high  lands,  slopes,  and  mountains.  It  was 
called  Cuba.  Still  the  gold  country  was  not 
discovered.  On  the  6th  of  December  he  ar- 
rived at  Hayti,  and  was  told  the  gold  country 
was  in  the  eastern  part  of  that  island.  He, 
therefore,  again  set  sail,  impatient  to  come  at 
the  source  of  incalculable  riches. 


3.  Columbus  visited  by  a  Caztque. 

Columbus  having  passed  to  another  part  of 
the  island,  near  the  dwelling  of  the  principal 
Cazique,  he  found  his  Indian  Majesty  had  a 
great  curiosity  to  come  and  see  these  white 
people  :  and  sent  to  say  he  would  visit  the  ad- 
mira!  on  board  his  own  vessel. 

With  a  very  splendid  train  of  attendants  he 
came,  brought  in  a  sort  of  palanquin.  His 
behaviour  to  his  subjects  was  dignified,  and 
commanding,  bnt  he  had  no  distinguishing 


14  COLUMBUS. 

dress ;  indeed  he  was  as  little  encumbered  with 
dress  as  any  of  them. 

He  went  on  board  without  showing  any  signs 
of  fear.  Finding  the  admiral  was  just  going 
to  dinner,  he  called  two  of  his  attendants, 
went  into  the  great  cabin,  and  seated  himself 
with  dignity  and  familiarity,  by  the  side  of 
Columbus.  He  partook  of  whatever  was  pre- 
sented to  him,  and  then  sent  the  remainder  to 
his  retinue  upon  deck. 

After  dinner  he  presented  Columbus  with 
some  pieces  of  sheet  gold,  and  a  girdle  of  very 
curious  workmanship.  In  return,  Columbus 
gave  him  a  string  of  beads,  and  a  pair  of  red 
slippers.  In  the  evening  he  requested  to  be 
set  on  shore  again. 

4.  Firing  the  Cannon. 

Sailing  on,  Columbus  was  much  alarmed  in 
the  middle  of  the  night,  by  the  shock  of  the 
vessel  striking  on  a  rock.  What  was  his  dis- 
may on  looking  around  him,  to  perceive  the 
sea  full  of  rocks  on  every  side.  The  ship 
soon  bulged,  and  all  hopes  of  saving  her  were 
gone. 


COLUMBUS.  1£ 

The  next  morning  he  sent  notice  of  his  dis« 
aster  to  his  friendly  Cazique,  Guakanahari. 
He  came  with  many  of  his  people,  expressing 
the  deepest  sorrow,  and  yielding  them  every 
relief  in  their  power.  In  a  short  time  the 
principal  stores  of  the  stranded  vessels  were 
got  on  shore.  The  Cazique  took  many  of 
them  under  his  immediate  care ;  and  by  many 
kind  messages  endeavoured  to  comfort  the 
shipwrecked  admiral. 

Though  kindly  treated,  Columbus  was  ha- 
rassed by  anxieties.  He  had  lost  his  best  , 
ship.  Pinzon  had  deserted  him  with  the 
second  best :  and  the  only  one  remaining, 
was  too  small  to  accommodate  half  the  people, 
and  too  crazy  to  be  fit  for  a  long  and  hazardous 
voyage  home. 

He  determined  at  last,  that  himself,  and 
part  of  his  people,  would  hazard  the  voyage 
home.  While  the  others  should  remain  on 
shore  as  a  colony,  till  Columbus  returned. 
Many  of  the  crew  were  glad  to  stop,  where 
they  were  treated  as  heavenly  visitants.  The 
Cazique  was  delighted  with  the  plan.  It  ap- 
peared, that  from  islands  towards  the  south- 
east, came  often  a  people  whom  he  called 


16  COLUMBUS. 

Caraibs,  who  were  strong,  and  fierce :  the 
Cazique  and  his  people  could  only  fly  into  the 
woods  at  their  approach. 

Columbus  promised  the  Cazique,  that  he 
and  his  people  should  be  protected  from  them, 
and  from  every  enemy.  And  in  order  to  give 
him  courage,  determined  to  exhibit  to  him 
some  of  the  European  modes  of  warfare.  The 
Indians  were  amazed  at  the  force  and  rapidity 
of  their  movements,  but  when  the  cannon 
saved  from  the  vessel  were  fired,  they  all  fell 
down  flat  with  astonishment. 

Columbus  sailed  as  he  intended  on  his  re- 
turn to  Spain,  in  his  crazy  vessel;  he  also 
overtook  Pinzon,  whom  he  was  glad  to  join 
again.  But  he  encountered  several  tremen- 
dous storms,  which  put  their  lives  in  great 
danger.  The  God  of  tempests,  who  had 
watched  over  them  through  so  many  dangers.  . 
brought  them  all  safe  to  Spain  again. 

There  he  attracted  attention  from  all  parties. 
The  common  people  flocked  to  discover  among 
the  men,  a  brother,  a  son,  a  father,  at  last  re- 
turned. His  enemies  could  no  longer  jeer  at 
his  scheme,  for  there  he  stood,  having  actually 
discovered  a  new  world.  He  was  invited  to 


COLUMBUS.  17 

court  in  the  most  honourable  manner.  Ferdi- 
nand and  Isabella,  king  and  queen  of  Spain, 
paid  him  all  possible  honours,  and  provided  a 
seat  at  the  king's  right  hand,  where  Columbus 
sat,  recounting  to  the  astonished  court,  the 
story  of  his  discoveries;  exhibiting  at  the 
same  time  the  gold,  the  strange  birds,  and 
the  strange  people,  he  had  brought  over  with 
him. 

Columbus  was  too  great  a  man  to  be  overset 
with  all  these  honours.  He  had  one  thing  in 
view,  dearer  to  him  than  all  he  had  already 
attained  ;  which  was  the  new  world,  which  he 
knew  he  had  only  begun  to  discover.  That 
which  gratified  him  most,  was  the  king's 
giving  orders  to  equip  a  large  fleet,  in  which 
he  might  return  to  encounter  anew  all  his 
distresses  and  dangers.  In  a  short  time  se- 
venteen vessels  were  ready  for  sea.  And  from 
among  the  numbers  who  crowded  to  the  land 
of  gold,  he  chose  out  fifteen  hundred. 

With  a  fair  wind  they  reached  the  spot, 
where  they  had  left  their  companions,  but 
could  find  no  Spaniards,  no  fort,  only  a  few 
dead  bodies  scattered  around. 

In  a  short  time  the  brother  of  their  friendly 
B 


18  COLUMBUS. 

Cazique  Guakanahari,  came  down,  and  gave 
them  the  particulars  of  the  dismal  story.  It 
appeared  that  soon  after  the  departure  of  Co- 
lumbus, the  Spaniards  left  behind  forgot  his 
advice  to  keep  on  friendly  terms  with  the 
Indians ;  and  began  to  rove  all  over  the 
country,  'in  parties  of  two  and  three,  plunder- 
ing and  ill-treating  the  people,  beyond  a)l 
bearing.  This  was  done  chiefly  in  the  part 
called  Civao,  because  gold  was  there  so  much 
more  abundant.  The  Cazique  of  that  district 
at  last  flew  to  arms,  cut  off  all  the  stragglers, 
and  then  set  fire  to  the  fort  and  burnt  it. 

Columbus's  first  care  was  to  erect  a  new 
fort,  which,  when  built,  he  called  Isabella. 
When  all  was  safe,  Columbus  set  sail  in  ordet 
to  discover  yet  more  of  his  new  world. 

He  returned  after  a  long  cruise,  and  found  that 
his  countrymen  had  brought  all  to  ruin,  much  as 
before.  All  the  Caziques  were  assembling 
their  people  to  drive  these  tyrants  away.  And 
he  found  an  army  of  an  hundred  thousand 
men,  gathered  to  sweep  away  the  Spaniards 
at  one  stroke. 


COLUMBUS.  19 

5.  Attack  of  the  Indian  Army. 

The  awful  moment  appeared  at  hand,  in 
which  the  fate,  the  freedom,  or  the  slavery, 
of  the  native  Indians,  was  to  be  won  or  lost  for 
ever.  But  what  an  inequality  was  seen.  On 
the  one  side  a  hundred  thousand  irritated  men, 
armed  with  darts,  wooden  swords,  spears,  and 
arrows.  On  the  other  side  were  about  two 
hundred  European  infantry,  twenty  cavalry, 
and  a  small  body  of  Indians  under  Guakana- 
hari :  but  the  grand  balance  lay  in  their 
courage,  their  regular  tactics,  their  arms, 
horses,  and  dogs. 

Columbus  determined  to  make  his  attack 
on  the  Indian  army  by  night.  As  soon,  there- 
fore, as  it  was  quite  dark,  he  began  his  march, 
and  came  on  the  unsuspecting  Indians  like  a 
hurricane.  The  noise  they  made  was  confound- 
ing and  terrifying,  the  thundering  and  light- 
ning of  their  fire  arms,  the  snorting  and  tramp- 
ling of  the  horses,  and  the  barking  of  the  dogs. 
The  Indians  were  too  much  confused  to  make 
much  resistance.  They  soon  fled  in  all  di- 
rections, when  the  destruction  and  havoc 
"xiade  in  their  flying  tribes  was  dreadful. 


20  COLUMBUS. 

The  Indians  never  made  any  further  resist 
ance,  but  submitted  to  their  conquerors ;  and 
the  Spaniards  treated  them  as  an  enslaved 
people,  taking  possession  of  all  as  their  own. 

Columbus  had  many  enemies,  who  endea- 
voured to  set  the  king  and  queen  of  Spain 
against  him,  which  obliged  him  to  return  to 
Spain,  that  he  might  defend  his  own  cause  and 
character. 

But  in  one  instance  his  enemies  prevailed 
shamefully.  They  procured  a  commission  to 
be  sent  over  professedly  to  examine  into  the 
admiral's  conduct,  but  it  was  given  to  an  in- 
solent man  of  the  name  of  Bovadilla,  who 
without  any  examination,  put  the  admiral  in 
chains,  and  sent  him  to  Spain  as  a  culprit. 

The  Court  were  much  hurt  at  his  ill-treat 
ment,  ordered  him  immediately  to  be  set  at 
liberty,  and  received  him  with  all  due  ho- 
nours. Another  fleet  was  sent  over  to  redress 
grievances,  and  set  aside  Bovadilla  and  his 
party.  But  the  command  of  this  fleet  was  not 
given  to  Columbus,  he  had  to  remain  idle  at 
home. 

Like  a  great  man,  however,  he  kept  his 
main  object  in  view.  He  wished  much  to 


COLUMBUS.  "1 

ascertain,  whether  there  was  any  sea  beyond 
the  Continent  he  had  discovered ;  and  espe- 
cially whether  there  might  not  be  some  open- 
ing or  narrow  strait,  into  it ;  through  which  he 
might  sail  to  the  Indies. 

He,  therefore,  laid  before  the  Court,  a  plan 
for  ascertaining  these  points ;  the  king  and 
queen  were  glad  of  an  opportunity  to  rid 
themselves  of  the  continual  presence  of  a  man 
whom  they  had  treated  so  ill.  Orders  were 
given  to  fit  out  four  ships  for  his  use.  The 
fitting  them  out  was  in  the  hands  of  his  ene- 
mies ;  and  he  found  four  miserable  little 
sloops,  provided  for  so  important  an  enier- 
prize. 

Columbus,  who  was  never  daunted  by  diffi- 
culties, set  sail ;  and  after  many  struggles 
reached  the  Western  Continent,  near  Hon- 
duras. From  thence  he  kept  coasting,  in 
hopes  of  discovering  the  Strait  which  he  so 
much  wished  to  find. 

6.  Indian  alarmed  at  the  Pen  and  Ink. 

His  brother,  Bartholomew,  landed  in  one 
plate,  where  the  natives  in  a  very  friendly  man- 


22  COLUMBUS. 

ner,  invited  him  to  sit  down  with  them  on  the 
grass.  He  did  so,  asking  them  many  ques- 
tions, to  which  they  gave  him  answers.  He 
requested  his  secretary  to  write  them  down. 
But  scarcely  did  the  natives  perceive  the  pen, 
and  its  operations,  than  they  suddenly  rose,  and 
ran  away  in  the  greatest  alarm ;  and  as  they 
suspected  some  magic  was  in  action ;  it  was 
with  difficulty  their  fears  were  overcome. 

7.  Indians  catching  Anchovies. 

This  fish,  when  pursued  by  others,  being  ac- 
customed in  desperation  to  jump  upon  land  ; 
the  Indians  covered  their  canoes  with  palm 
leaves,  and  sailing  about  in  the  rivers,  dis- 
turbed the  water  as  much  as  possible  with 
their  oars.  The  terrified  fish  mistaking  the 
palm  leaves  for  land,  would  jump  upon  them, 
and  be  easily  caught. 

8.  Columbus  delivered  by  an  Eclipse. 

In  one  place  the  Indians  grew  weary  of  sup- 
plying their  voracious  guests,  and  lest  they 


COLUMBUS.  23 

should  think  to  settle  there,  determined  to 
bring  them  no  more  provisions.  Here  the* 
knowledge  and  sagacity  of  Columbus  served 
him  well.  He  knew  that  an  eclipse  of  the 
moon  was  nigh.  He  therefore  gathered  their 
chiefs  together,  and  by  the  aid  of  an  inter- 
preter, he  informed  them,  that  the  Spaniards 
worshipped  the  most  high  God,  who  made  the 
sun  and  moon,  who  rewarded  the  good,  and 
punished  the  wicked.  That  God  was  angry 
with  them,  for  refusing  to  his  servants,  the  Spa- 
niards, necessary  food  ;  and  would  certainly  pu- 
nish them.  That  as  a  token  of  his  displeasure 
they  would  see  the  moon  rise  with  an  angry 
and  bloody  appearance.  The  Indians  laughed 
at  the  threat,  but  when  the  moon  rose,  when 
the  eclipse  appeared,  when  the  darkness  gra- 
dually increased,  their  consternation  became 
great.  They  entreated  the  admiral  to  pray  to 
God  to  forbear  his  punishments,  and  solemnly 
promised  to  bring  him  regular  supplies  in  future. 
We  shall  have  little  more  to  do  with  Colum- 
bus. .Yet  anxious  as  we  have  been  for  him  in 
his  various  difficulties,  we  shall  be  interested 
to  hear  the  little  remainder  concerning  him. 
After  being  shipwrecked,  deserted,  and  abused. 


4  COLUMBUS. 

he  made  his  way  to  Spain.  On  his  arrival  he 
found  to  his  great  dismay,  that  his  last  friend 
and  patron,  queen  Isabella,  was  dead.  He 
experienced  nothing  but  slights  from  king  Fer- 
dinand, exhausted,  neglected,  this  discoverer 
of  the  new  world  died  in  the  65th  year  of  his 
age. 

9.  Planting   the  first  Sugar   Cane   in  th' 
West  Indies. 

Ovando,  who  had  been  appointed  Governor 
of  Hispaniola,  had  conducted  affairs  so,  as  to 
bring  the  colony  into  some  regular  order. 
One  thing  too  he  did,  well  worthy  our  notice  ; 
he  procured  from  the  Canaries,  plants  of  the 
Sugar  Cane,  which  have  taken  well  to  the  soil, 
have  spread  all  over  the  West  India  Islands, 
and  now  have  become  the  staple  mass  of  wealth 
to  them ;  affording  us,  what  by  custom  is  be- 
come one  of  the  necessaries  of  life.  One  can- 
not get  one's  breakfast  without  sugar. 

From  a  little  trifling  thing 

Which  we  glance  at  carelessly, 

Great  effects  will  sometimes  springy 
Swelling  to  the  wondering  eye.  . 


COLUMBUS.  95 

Those  few  plants  of  Sugar  Cane 

Were  a  curiosity : 
But  what  treasures  now  remain, 

Bringing  wealth  and  luxury. 

Let  me  then  where'er  I  can 

Drop  a  seed  for  future  use . 
Give  a  hint,  or  lay  a  plan : 

Who  can  say  'twill  nought  produce  ? 

Let  me  o'er  the  infant  mind 

Exercise  this  constant  care. 
Principles  for  good  design'd 

Root,  and  grow,  with  fruitage  fair. 

During  the  long  course  of  Columbus's  life, 
many  of  the  islands  he  had  discovered  had 
been  colonized  :  and  different  governors  ap- 
pointed to  them,  especially  Cuba,  where  Ve- 
lasquez commanded. 

He  was  impatient  to  make  discoveries  too, 
but  he  had  not  sufficient  courage  to"  undertake 
such  a  hazardous  employment  himself. 

He  equipped  several  little  fleets,  and  the 
testimony  uniformly  was,  that  there  was  much 
land  in  the  west ;  that  the  people  were  cultiva- 


2C  CORTEZ. 

ted,  and  more  warlike  than  the  natives  of  the 
islands,  over  whom  they  domineered.  At  last 
he  fitted  out  a  fleet  of  ten  large  ships,  and 
gave  the  command  to  Cortez,  who  sailed  Dec. 
18th,  1518. 

He  took  the  same  course  which  had  been 
taken  by  Grijalva,  a  former  commander;  and 
arrived  at  the  island  Cozumel.  Here  he  found 
a  poor  Spaniard,  who  had  been  shipwrecked, 
and  had  lived  among  the  natives  eight  years. 
He  became  of  great  use  to  them  as  an  inter- 
preter. 

10.  Cortez  landing. 

He  steered  towards  Tabasco,  hoping  to  find 
as  friendly  a  reception,  as  Grijalva  had  done 
before  him.  On  the  contrary,  the  natives  as- 
sembled in  great  numbers  to  oppose  him.  He 
was  obliged  to  attack  them ;  one  volley  of 
artillery  drove  them  all  away,  and  he  landed 
his  men.  But  the  opposition  of  the  natives 
was  not  yet  abated,  he  had  to  fight  them  again 
next  day,  and  then  to  attack  them  in  their 
fortified  town  Tobasco.  He  had  still  another 
battle  to  fight.  Fortv  thousand  native?  were 


CORTEZ.  27 

gathered,  and  Cortez  could  only  by  dreadful 
havoc  defeat  them.  He  took  several  prisoners, 
whom  he  kindly  treated,  and  sent  home.  The 
effect  this  had  was  wonderful,  in  softening  the 
minds  of  the  Indians.  They  sent  in  all  man- 
ner of  provisions,  and  the  Cazique  sent  presents, 
and  sued  for  peace. 

11.  Marina  is  presented  to  Cortez. 

Among  other  things,  the  Cazique  presented 
Cortez  with  twenty  young  women,  who  knew 
how  to  make  bread  of  Indian  corn.  One  of 
these  afterwards  called  Marina,  was  the  daugh- 
ter of  a  Cazique,  who  had  been  taken  captive. 
She  was  a  woman  of  great  talent,  she  soon 
learned  the  Spanish  language,  and  became  of 
great  service  and  importance,  as  an  interpreter. 

Cortez  had  said  to  the  messenger  sent  to 
request  his  departure,  that  his  master  had  sent 
him  with  proposals  to  Montezuma ;  and  he 
therefore  declared  his  determination  to  have 
an  interview.  All  the  Caziques,  and  great 
men,  were  astonished  to  find  any  man  who 
would  dare  dispute  the  repeated  order  of  their 


28  CORTEZ. 

mighty  emperor.     After  in  vain  endeavouring 
to  move  him,  they  all  retired  in  great  anger. 

While  they  were  preparing  for  battle,  they 
were  surprized  with  a  message  from  the  Cazique 
of  Zernpoalla,  offering  them  a  friendly  alliance. 

12.  Burning  Mexican  Idols 

The  zeal  of  Cortez  was  blind  and  furious  ; 
hearing  that  a  human  sacrifice  was  about  to 
take  place,  at  a  neighbouring  temple,  he  was 
determined  to  prevent  it.  So  far  he  was  right. 
But  not  content  with  this,  he  commanded  the 
priests  to  destroy  their  idol  gods;  and  as  they 
were  struck  with  horror  at  the  proposal,  he 
commanded  his  soldiers  to  do  it  by  force. 
The  huge,  ugly,  idols,  were  tumbled  head- 
long,  and  broken  to  pieces.  The  temple  was 
cleared  out,  and  the  human  blood  washed  from 
the  walls  and  pavement. 

13.  Spaniards  destroying  their  own  ships. 

Cortez  had  much  to  fear  from  the  cowardice, 
and  discontent  of  many  of  his  own  people.  He 


CORTEZ.  29 

discovered  that  a  plan  was  laid  by  some  of  them, 
to  seize  one  of  the  ships  and  return  home.  He 
determined  on  a  desperate  measure,  and  re- 
solved to  destroy  his  whole  fleet ;  that  every 
soldier  might  feel  he  had  only  to  conquer  or 
die.  He  ordered  them,  therefore,  to  be  com- 
pletely unrigged.  He  prevailed  with  the  car- 
penters to  declare  their  bottoms  unsound  ;  and 
in  an  inflammatory  speech,  worked  upon  the 
passions  of  his  soldiers  so,  that  they  flew 
under  the  intoxication  of  the  moment,  and 
pulled  them  all  to  pieces. 

The  determination  of  Cortez  to  have  an  in- 
terview with  Montezuma,  was  now  to  be  put  in 
force.  He  proceeded  with  his  little  army  of 
500  infantry,  fifteen  cavalry,  and  six  field 
pieces.  From  the  friendly  Caziques  of  Zem- 
poalla,  he  accepted  four  hundred  men,  with 
two  hundred  Tamenes,  or  carriers,  to  convey 
stores  and  provisions. 

As  long  as  his  route  lay  through  the  lands 
of  the  friendly  Caziques,  all  was  quiet.  But 
in  a  few  days  time  they  entered  the  territories 
of  the  Ilascalans,  a  very  warlike  people.  Cor- 
tez endeavoured  to  pacify  them,  and  gain  them 
over  to  his  side  ;  but  his  endeavours  were  all 


30  CORTEZ. 

in  vain.  One  of  the  chiefs,  a  high  spirited 
young  man,  named  Xicotencatl,  declared  for 
war,  and  roused  the  whole  nation  to  resistance. 

In  a  few  days  march,  Cortez  found  himself 
opposed  by  an  innumerable  army  of  Ilasca- 
lans,  who  fought  desperately.  Again  the  Ilas- 
calans  assembled  in  immense  numbers  ;  their 
attack  was  furious,  the  issue  for  a  long  while 
appeared  doubtful,  but  at  last  European  tactics 
prevailed.  The  enemy  fled  on  all  sides,  and 
Jcft  the  Spaniard  master  of  the  field.  After 
this,  the  Ilascalans  superstitiously  imagining 
that  the  Spaniards,  were  children  of  the  Sun, 
and  defended  by  him,  resolved  to  attack  them 
in  his  absence,  and  came  upon  the  Spaniards 
by  night.  But  the  vigilance  of  Cortez  could 
not  be  surprised,  they  were  furiously  resisted, 
and  driven  off  with  great  loss. 

At  length  their  opposition  appearing  to  be 
all  in  vain,  they  sent  an  embassy  to  sue  for 
peace ;  at  the  head  of  which  came  the  valiant 
Xicotencatl  himself.  Cortez  and  his  whole 
army  were  conducted  to  Ilascala,  where  they 
were  received  rather  as  heavenly  visitants,  than 
as  men. 

Cortez  steadily  pursued  his  march  towards 


CORTEZ.  3i 

Mexico ;  overcoming  all  opposition,  whether 
secret  or  open.  At  length  he  crossed  the 
mountains  of  Chalco,  when^with  astonishment 
and  rapture,  the  Spaniards  beheld  a  beautiful 
country,  spreading  farther  than  the  eye  could 
reach ;  in  the  centre  was  a  large  lake,  glitter- 
ing with  villages,  and  Mexico,  with  temples, 
and  turrets,  towering  as  queen  of  all.  The 
whole  appeared  like  some  fairy  land,  so  daz- 
zling, so  superb,  was  all  they  saw. 

14.  Meeting  of  Cortez  and  Montezuma. 

Cortez  made  his  way  along  the  borders  of 
this  lake,  and  was  surprised  one  day,  to  per- 
ceive a  grand  procession  issuing  towards  him 
from  the  city.  Above  a  thousand,  whoso 
adornings  with  plumes  and  mantles  showed 
them  to  be  persons  of  high  rank ;  then  came 
two  hundred  of  the  body  guard,  all  in  uniform  ; 
these  withdrew  on  one  side,  in  order  to  give  a 
view  of  Montezuma  himself,  carried  in  a  chair, 
or  palanquin,  of  gold,  and  borne  by  nobles. 

As  soon  as  the  emperor  approached  suffi- 
ciently near,  Cortez  dismounted,  and  advanced 
in  a  respectful  attitude.  At  the  same  time  Mr»n- 


32  CORTEZ. 

tezuma  alighted  from  his  palanquin,  arid  rest- 
ing on  the  shoulders  of  two  princes,  advanced 
at  a  slow  and  stately  pace ;  his  attendants 
covering  the  way  with  pieces  of  cotten  cloth, 
that  his  feet  might  not  touch  the  ground.  Cor 
tez  accosted  him  with  a  profound  reverence, 
such  as  was  customary  in  Europe.  Monte- 
zuma  showed  his  courtesy,  by  touching  the 
earth  with  his  hand,  and  then  kissing  it.  A? 
Montezuma  was  accustomed  to  salute  even  his 
his  gods  with  a  nod,  his  people  became  con- 
vinced, that  the  strangers  before  whom  he 
humbled  himself  thus,  must  be  something  more 
than  human. 

Cortez  wore  a  necklace  of  false  diamonds, 
which  he  intended  as  a  present  for  Montezuma. 
As  soon,  therefore,  as  the  first  compliments  were 
paid,  he  took  off  this  ornament,  and  hung  it 
about  Montezuma's  neck ;  who  seemed  well 
pleased  with  it ;  and  sent  for  one  of  his  most 
valuable  treasures,  a  necklace  of  shells,  on 
both  sides  of  each  hung  a  golden  crab  :  he 
placed  this  ornament  on  Cortez,  with  his  own 
hands,  a  sort  of  condescension  which  greatly 
increased  the  astonishment  of  his  subjects. 

The  procession  now  returned,  attended  by 


CORTEZ.  33 

all  these  visitors.  A  very  large  palace  was 
given  as  an  habitation  for  Cortez,  which  he  for 
lined,  and  surrounded  with  sentinels,  and 
cannon. 

Ah  Montezuma  !  'twas  a  great  mistake 

To  show  thy  treasures  vast  at  such  an  hour. 

Thy  grandeur,  and  thy  gold,  could  only  make 
These  visitants,  wish  all  within  their  power. 

Wouldst  thou  drive  off  a  fox,  by  rich  display 
Of  poultry  fat,  and  flourishing,  and  fair  : 

Or  think  to  send  the  hungry  wolf  away 

By  flocks  of  bleating  sheep,  or  lambkins  rare 

Gold  is  the  Spaniard's  object ;  thou  hast  gold  . 

Thoucouldst  not  hide  it,  hadst  thou  known  the  case . 
Thy  presents  to  appease,  made  rapine  bold  ; 

Thy  rich  display,  roused  every  feeling  base . 

Ah  vain  the  struggle  'twixt  the  weak  and  strong  ; 

Resistance  but  spreads  devastation  wide, 
Thy  rights  are  feeble,  for  his  spear  is  long. 

Thy  gold  or  his  ? — his  sword  will  soon  decide 

Think  not  to  make  him  grateful,  or  to  bind 
Thy  safety  to  his  oaths,  or  promises  : 


34  CORTEZ. 

He  will  cajole  thee,  if  to  keep  thee  blind 

May  soonest  reach  thy  treasures'  deep  recess. 

Look  at  his  sword  ;  his  sinewy  arm  observe  ; 

The  rampant  horse,that  beats  the  tremblingground  •, 
His  bullets  murderous  range  :  nor  thinkhe'll  swerve, 
Till  all  thou  hast,  within  his  grasp  is  found. 

15.  Mexican  Worship. 

Montezuma  wished  to  show  his  guests  the 
grandeur  of  his  temples.  He  conducted  them 
to  one  of  the  largest.  He  explained  every 
part  to  Cortez  ;  recounted  the  names  of  his 
gods,  the  principal  of  them  was  Vizlipuzli. 

The  whole  horde  of  Mexican  idols  were  ugly 
and  contemptible  ;  but  there  is  something  hor- 
rible in  their  modes  of  worship,  which  consisted 
principally  in  human  sacrifices. 

They  frequently  made  war  on  neighbouring 
states  only  to  procure  prisoners,  to  fatten  and 
slay  them  on  their  altars  in  honour  of  their  gods  ; 
and  then  themselves  devoured  their  flesh. 

The  manner  of  it  was  as  follows.  Six  priests 
were  principal  actors.  The  victim  was  laid  on 
his  back  on  a  large  stone  ;  two  priests  held 


CORTEZ.  „  35 

down  his  legs,  two  of  them  his  arms,  and  ano- 
ther his  head  and  neck.  When  the  principal 
priest,  with  a  sharp  flint,  cut  open  his  body, 
and  tore  out  the  yet  beating  heart  of  the  pal- 
pitating wretch,  and  holding  it  up  towards  the 
sun,  offered  the  fume  of  it  as  an  acceptable 
sacrifice. 

16.  Montezuma  seized. 

Cortez  it  is  true  had  accomplished  his  ob- 
ject, and  obtained  an  interview  with  Monte- 
zuma.  But  it  is  equally  true,  that  by  entering 
the  city,  and  being  shut  up  in  a  palace,  he  had 
put  himself,  and  his  whole  army,  completely 
in  the  power  of  a  man  who  would  be  glad  tu 
cut  him  off. 

In  this  situation,  his  only  choice  was  to  be- 
come a  prisoner  himself,  or  to  seize  Monte- 
zuma,  and  keep  him  in  custody.  By  threats 
and  flatteries  he  prevailed  on  the  emperor,  as 
a  voluntary  compliment,  to  come  and  spend  a 
few  days  in  the  Spanish  quarters.  After  he  had 
been  there  a  little  while,  he  came  in  an  angry 
manner,  and  reproached  him  with  the  conduct 
of  some  of  his  Mexican  chiefs  ;  who  had  at- 


36          ^  CORTEZ. 

tacked  the  Spaniards  left  behind,  had  killed  a 
Spaniard,  and  sent  his  head  to  Mexico.  In  a 
great  rage  he  ordered  the  emperor  to  be  put  in 
irons ;  thus  he  aimed  to  humble  Montezuma, 
and  break  his  spirit ;  that  he  might  not  under- 
take any  thing  against  him. 

But  though  Montezuma  himself  was  humbled, 
his  people  were  not.  They  made  incessant  at- 
tacks on  the  Spanish  quarters,  set  some  of 
their  buildings  on  fire,  and  seemed  determined 
to  drive  away  the  Spaniards  at  all  hazards. 

Poor  Montezuma  1  thou'rt  a  tim'rous  dove, 
Beneath  the  eagle's  talons  making  moan. 

What  now  can  save  thee  ;  gentle  pity,  love, 

His  stern  breast  knows  not ;  'tis  a  heart  of  stone 

Once  thou  wert  grand,  endued  with  high  command, 
And  distant  nations  trembled  at  thy  frown  ; 

Once  thou  wert  rich,  with  gold  on  every  hand  : 
Thy  riches  ruined  thee,  and  cast  thee  down. 

Gold,  O  what  mischiefs  haunt  th'  alluring  name  : 
Tho'  meant  for  mercy,  thou'rt  abused  to  guilt  ; 

Those  bow  to  thee,  who  do  not  bow  to  fame. 
How  much  for  thee  has  human  blood  been  spilt. 


CORTEZ.  37 

High  station,  brings  a  desperate  cruel  fall ; 

Great  riches,  tempt  the  murderer's  steel  to  kill  \ 
I'm  thankful  for  the  mercies  given  me,  all ; 

But  covet  not  great  wealth,  so  oft  great  ill. 

17.  Montezuma  harangues  his  Subjects. 

At  one  time,  when  a  furious  attack  was 
commencing,  Montezuma,  who  still  resided  in 
the  Spanish  quarters,  determined  to  dress  him- 
self in  his  grandest  attire,  and  show  himself 
to  hi-s  subjects.  Accordingly  one  of  his  at- 
tendants ascended  the  wall,  and  announced 
the  approach  of  their  sovereign.  At  the  name 
of  Montezuma  the  combatants  desisted.  The 
monarch  ascended  the  wall,  at  sight  of  him 
the  greatest  veneration  was  expressed.  He 
t'nanked  them  for  the  submission  they  showed, 
assured  them  that  he  was  not  kept  a  prisoner, 
that  it  was  his  wish  to  continue  among  the 
Spaniards  ;  and  begged  them  to  lay  down  their 
arms,  and  return  home  peaceably. 

The  moment  he*  ceased  to  speak,  a  violent 
murmur  arose  among  the  crowd.  They  be- 
gan to  abuse  their  monarch.  They  let  fly  a 
shower  of  arrows,  and  a  large  stone  struck 


38  CORTEZ. 

him,  and  he  fell  senseless  to  the  ground.  The 
wounds,  but  still  more  his  rage  at  being  as- 
saulted by  his  own  subjects,  overcame  him, 
and  he  died. 

This  made  a  great  change  in  the  circum- 
stances of  the  Spaniards.  The  Mexicans  im- 
mediately chose  a  new  emperor,  Guatimozin, 
and  their  zeal  and  fury  increased  without  re- 
straint. Only  one  way  remained  to  Cortez, 
which  was  to  effect  his  retreat.  He  accordingly 
got  his  whole  army  in  motion,  and  in  the  dead 
of  night  began  his  march.  But  he  found  the 
bridges  broken  down,  and  the  whole  lake 
covered  with  canoes  of  armed,  and  enraged 
enemies.  Though  exerting  all  their  usual 
courage,  yet  so, desperate  was  his  situation, 
that  he  lost  half  his  army  before  he  gained  the 
open  country. 

1 8.  Seizing  the  great  Mexican  Standard. 

After  marching  about  six  days,  through 
many  difficulties,  and  almost  without  food  ;  on 
ascending  a  hill,  they  saw  a  vast  plain  before 
them,  filled  with  an  innumerable  army. 

Cortez  arranged  his  little  company,  and  told 


CORTEZ.  39 

them  they  must  either  conquer,  or  die :  he 
spoke  in  a  manner  so  cheerful,  as  raised  the 
spirits  and  hopes  of  his  companions.  They 
rushed  forwards  to  the  carnage,  till  through 
weariness  of  killing,  they  were  scarcely  able 
to  fight. 

Cortez  observed  the  Mexican  general,  with 
the  grand  standard  of  the  empire.  He  assem- 
bled a  few  of  his  bravest  men,  whose  horses 
were  not  disabled ;  and  placing  himself  at  their 
head,  pressed  on  towards  the  standard  with  an 
impetuosity  which  was  irresistible.  With  one 
blow,  he  slew  the  general,  and  took  possession 
of  jjie  standard.  The  Mexicans  considered  all 
as  lost  now.  At  the  same  instant  every  stand- 
ard was  lowered ;  a  sudden  panic  seized  their 
whole  army,  they  made  no  more  resistance, 
but  threw  down  their  arms  and  fled. 

This  victory  was  good  in  another  view.  For 
as  all  the  Mexicans  were  richly  drest,  the  Spa- 
niards found  an  immense  booty  in  stripping  the 
slain. 

Yet  Mexico  was  not  subdued,  nor  the  people 
brought  into  subjection.  Cortez  gathered  all 
his  forces,  determined  to  take  the  city.  While 
Guatimozin  with  a  courage  rendered  desperate. 


40  BALBOA. 

opposed  him  inch  by  inch.  The  combats  were 
furious,  and  often  repeated  ;  but  in  the  end  the 
Spaniards  conquered.  The  nobles  of  Mex- 
ico were  slaughtered;  the  emperor  Guatimo- 
zin  was  taken ;  and  the  whole  country  sub- 
mitted to  a  handful  of  strangers. 

Yes  Cortez,  'twas  judgment  that  taught  thee  to  dart, 
Like  an  eagle  to  pounce  on  thy  prey. 

Thy  blow  at  that  rag,  cut  each  Mexican's  heart. 
His  courage  soon  melted  away. 

When  courage  on  principle  fixes,  'tis  sure, 

No  dangers  can  daunt,  or  appal. 
But  when  superstition  with  charms  would  allure, 

'Tis  false,  and  must  lead  to  a  fall. 

Though  we  have  kept  unbroken  the  histories 
of  Columbus  and  Cortez,  we  must  not  suppose 
the  Spaniards  were  idle  every  where  else.  On 
the  contrary  many  sets  of  adventurers  were 
pushing,  some  this  way,  and  some  that. 
Among  these  a  man  of  the  name  of  Balboa, 
came  with  a  parcel  of  his  countrymen,  to  the 
Isthmus  of  Darien ;  where  he  soon  distin- 
guished himself,  and  was  chosen  commander. 


1.3 


BALBOA.  41 

He  formed  an  alliance  with  one  friendly  Ca- 
zique,  who  presented  them  with  a  considera- 
ble quantity  of  gold,  which  the  Spaniards 
seized  with  great  eagerness.  The  son  of  the 
Cazique  perceiving  it,  said  he  could  show  them 
a  country,  where  they  might  obtain  as  much  as 
they  pleased. 

This  hint  was  not  lost  upon  the  Spaniards. 
They  became  impatient  to  come  at  this  land  of 
gold.  But  Balboa's  whole  force  consisted 
only  of  an  hundred  and  sixty  men.  ' 

According  to  the  account  of  Comagre's  son, 
there  was  beyond  those  western  mountains,  a 
vast  ocean.  Balboa  immediately  surmised, 
that  this  was  the  ocean  after  which  Columbas 
had  searched  in  vain,  and  across  which  a  west- 
ern course  would  lead  to  the  East  Indies. 

19.  Balboa's  first  Sight  of  the  Sea. 

The  journey  across  these  mountains  was  ex- 
tremely difficult;  but  the  courage  of  Balboa 
was  not  to  be  daunted.  He  determined  to  un- 
dertake the  journey.  After  five-and-twenty  days 
incessant  fatigue,  they  came  to  the  last  moun- 
tain ;  up  this  he  went  alone,  being  determined 


42  BALBOA. 

that  none  should  rob  him  of  the  first  sight. 
He  attained  the  summit,  whence  he  saw  the 
vast  Pacific  Ocean  rolling  before  him.  He 
fell  upon  his  knees,  and  lifted  up  his  hands  in 
a  state  of  ecstacy.  This  in  order  of  time  took 
place,  five  years  before  Cortez  set  out  against 
Mexico. 

Long  doubted,  long  sought  for  with  labour  in  vain  ; 

To  gain  it  at  last,  what  a  prize. 
The  labour  seems  nothing  when  once  we  obtain  ; 

We  gaze,  and  absorbed,  feast  our  eyes ! 

May  always  our  object  be  worthy  and  good, 

No  trifles  deserve  our  regard  : 
Then  let  it  with  zeal  and  address  be  pursued, 

Success  then  will  richly  reward. 

Balboa  was  infamously  treated,  and  by  Ped- 
rarias,  a  new  governor,  executed.  This  man  re- 
moved across  the  mountains,  and  built  Panama, 
where  all  thoughts  of  attacking  Peru  were  laid 
aside.  Pedrarias  was  not  qualified  to  under- 
take any  thing  dangerous.  Among  the  persons 
drawn  together  at  Panama,  were  three,  deter- 
mined to  distinguish  themselves.  These  were 


PIZARRO.  43 

Pizarro,  Almagro,  and  Luque,  a  priest.  These 
agreed  to  advance  their  whole  property,  in  an 
expedition  against  Peru.  As  Pizarro  could 
not  advance  so  much  as  his  companions,  he 
undertook  the  part  of  danger  ;  and  was  to  com- 
mand the  expedition.  Almagro  wa«  to  gather 
reinforcements,  and  follow  him,  while  Luque 
was  to  remain  at  Panama,  and  keep  Pedrarias 
the  governor  in  good  humour. 

The  whole  force  these  parties  could  raise. 
to  conquer  the  vast  kingdom  of  Peru,  was  one 
single  ship,  with  a  hundred  and  twelve  men. 
With  this  did  Pizarro  set  sail,  Nov.  14,  15°* 

He  suffered  much  in  his  hazardous  vo;^e; 
as  did  Almagro,  who  joined  him  with  fresh  re- 
cruits. At  last  they  landed  at  Tacames.  in 
the  province  of  Quito.  Here  they  found  them- 
selves so  weakened,  as  not  to  be  able  to  un- 
dertake any  thing.  It  was  determined  that 
Pizarro  should  remain,  and  that  Almagro  should 
return,  to  gather  new  recruits. 

20.  Pizarro  separating  his  men  by  a  line. 

Almagro  on  his  return  to  Panama,  found  a 
new  governor ;  a  man  of  no  enterprize,  and 


44  PIZARRO. 

who  thought  the  undertaking  of  the  three  as- 
sociates so  absurd,  and  so  hazardous,  that  he 
forbad  Almagro  to  raise  new  recruits :  and 
sent  out  a  vessel  to  recall  Pizarro  and  his  com- 
panions. Upon  sight  of  this  order,  Pizarro 
refused  to  comply,  but  he  perceived  that  many 
of  his  soldiers  were  weary  of  their  sufferings, 
and  longed  to  return.  He  therefore  drew  a 
line  upon  the  sands  with  his  sword ;  and  bade 
every  soldier  whojwas  desirous  of  leaving  him 
to  pass  over  that  line.  To  his  great  mortifica- 
tion, the  greatest  part  went  over  it,  and  there 
remained  with  him  only  fourteen,  one  of  whom 
was  a  mulatto. 

These  waited  under  every  privation  five 
months,  before  any  vessel  arrived  for  their  re- 
lief. Instead  of  returning  to  Panama,  they 
steered  south  for  Peru,  near  Tumbes.  Pizarro 
had  scarcely  anchored  when  he  was  visited  by 
several  Peruvians,  whose  astonishment  was 
great,  both  at  the  floating  house  and  its  white 
inhabitants,  with  long  beards.  They  soon  sent 
in  a  large  supply  of  provisions,  with  liquor,  in 
gold  and  silver  vessels. 

All  that  Pizarro  saw  convinced  him,  that  it 
was  in  vain  to  attempt  conquering  such  a 


PIZARRO.  46 

country,  with  ihe  force  he  had  with  him.  He 
was  once  more  obliged  to  return  to  Panama. 

By  application  to  Spain,  he  obtained  sup- 
plies, and  once  more  sailed  for  Peru,  with  three 
small  ships,  and  a  hundred  and  eighty  men, 
thirty  six  of  whom  were  cavalry. 

The  Peruvian  empire  had  flourished  three 
or  four  hundred  years,  before  the  Spaniards 
arrived.  Their  own  story  is,  that  two  persons 
suddenly  made  their  appearance  among  them, 
called  Manca  Capac,  and  his  wife,  Mama 
Ozello.  These  persons  called  themselves  chil- 
dren of  the  sun.  They  taught  the  savage 
tribes  to  cultivate  the  earth,  to  make  cloathes, 
and  to  build  houses ;  and  instructed  the 
women  in  spinning,  and  housewifery.  They 
abolished  the  barbarous  worship  of  the  natives, 
whir-h  consisted  much  in  sacrificing  human  vic- 
tims ;  and  bade  them  imitate,  and  worship,  the 
source  of  all  their  blessings,  which  they  said  was 
the  sun.  The  descendants  of  these  two  per- 
sons were  called  Incas,  they  kept  themselves 
distinct,  confined  to  themselves  all  the  offices 
or  royalty,  and  officiated  as  priests  of  the  sun, 
to  whom  they  caused  temples  to  be  built. 


46  PIZARRO. 

21.  Peruvians*  anxiety  at  an  Eclipse. 

They  considered  the  rnoon  too  as  a  deity, 
but  of  an  inferior  order.  And  were  always 
fearful  during  an  eclipse,  that  the  moon  was 
sick ;  they  apprehended  it  would  die,  and  fall- 
ing from  heaven  destroy  the  earth.  At  such 
times,  therefore,  they  made  all  manner  of 
noises  the  most  violent.  Tied  up  their  dogs, 
and  beat  them,  to  increase  the  noise  by  their 
howling.  All  the  while  incessantly  reoeating 
"  Mama  Cuilla,"  or  dear  mother  moon.  When 
the  eclipse  began  to  wear  off,  they  began  to  re- 
vive ;  and  when  it  was  all  over,  a  universal 
shout  of  joy  arose. 

There  are  two  productions  of  Peru  which 
have  proved  of  immense  benefit.  One  is  the 
potato,  whose  native  soil  is  the  fertile  pro- 
vince of  Quito  ;  although  as  we  received  it  from 
Virginia,  we  have  been  apt  to  regard  it  as  a 
native  of  North  America.  How  many  thou- 
sands have  been  supported  by  this  root,  how 
"important  is  it  now  Hcom.e  to  the  existence  of 
nations  ? 


PIZARRO.  47 

22.  Discovery  of  the  Bark. 

The  other,  is  as  important  in  medicine,  as  the 
potatoe  is  for  food  ;  it  is  the  Cinchona,  com- 
monly called  the  bark.  The  mode  of  disco- 
vering its  virtues  is  said  to  have  been  as  follows  : 
Some  Cinchona  trees  had  been  blown  down 
into  a  pool  of  water,  by  which  means  it  be- 
came so  bitter  that  nobody  could  drink  it. 
However,  a  poor  Indian,  reduced  extremely 
by  a  fever,  drank  it;  being  unable  to  procure 
any  other.  He  soon  recovered :  and  relating 
the  circumstance  to  others,  they  were  induced 
to  try  it,  and  all  became  well  presently. 
When  they  came  to  examine,  they  found  the 
water  owed  its  virtues  to  the  trees,  and  that 
in  the  bark  of  the  tree,  resided  its  medicinal 
quality.  How  many  lives  are  saved  every  d;iy 
by  this  Peruvian  bark. 

Sickly  sufferer  come  and  drink, 
Tho"  the  nauseous  draught  repel. 

Little  did  the  sufferer  think, 

This  alone  would  make  him  well. 


48  PIZARRO. 

Had  he  been  less  feeble,  he 

To  some  purer  stream  had  gone  i 

Forced  by  strong  necessity, 
This  he  drinks,  and  this  alone 

So  in  providence  'tis  found, 
What  we  hate,  refuse,  despise  : 

Shall  make  health  or  wealth  abound  , 
Source  of  peace,  and  purest  joys. 

"  No  I  wo'nt" — I  dare  not  say  ; 

Since  I  know  not  what  is  best. 
Let  me  keep  the  prudent  way, 

And  to  God  leave  all  the  rest. 


When  Pizarro  landed  in  Peru,  he  soon  dis 
covered  that  there  were  dissentions  in  the  em- 
pire, between  two  brothers  to  whom  the  two 
grand  provinces  of  the  kingdom  were  left.  Hu- 
ascar  was  to  have  the  old  kingdom  of  Cusco; 
and  Atahualpa,  the  lately  conquered  kingdom 
of  Quito.  The  latter  had  a  vast  army,  and  de- 
termined to  rule  both.  He  soon  subdued  his 
brother,  and  took  him  prisoner.  When  Pizarro 
began  his  march  up  the  country,  he  was  not 
opposed,  therefore,  because  all  parties  were  too 


PIZARRO.  49 

busy  in  their  private  quarrels.  Indeed  each 
party  hoped  to  obtain  the  assistance  of  these 
terrible  strangers ;  and  therefore  rather  aimed 
to  conciliate,  than  oppose. 

Pizarro  had  penetrated  till  he  came  very 
near  the  camp  of  Atahualpa.  Then  embas- 
sies, and  presents,  and  professions  of  friend- 
ship, took  place.  The  Inca  promised  to  come 
and  pay  the  Spaniards  a  visit. 

23.  Pizarro  seizes  the  Inca. 

Accordingly  he  came  in  great  grandeur, 
He  was  seated  in  a  palanquin,  richly  adorned 
with  gold,  precious  stones,  and  feathers. 
While  all  appeared  peaceable,  and  friendly,  on 
a  sudden  the  drums  beat,  the  cannon  roared 
on  the  astonished  Peruvians,  the  cavalry  gal- 
loped among  them,  and  all  was  confusion,  and 
despair.  Pizarro  attacked  the  corps  which 
surrounded  the  Inca,  penetrated  *o  his  palan- 
quin, tore  him  from  his  seat,  and  dragged  him 
towards  his  own  head  quarters. 

The  Inca  thus  a  prisoner,  soon  perceived 
that  the  ruling  passion  with  these  marauders 
was  the  love  of  gold.  From  hence  he  indulged 
D 


50  PIZARRO. 

a  hope  of  gaining  his  liberty.  The  room  in 
which  he  was  confined  was  twenty-two  feet 
long,  by  sixteen  wide.  The  Inca  offered  to  fill 
it  with  golden  vessels,  as  high  as  he  could 
reach,  for  his  ransom.  This  offer  was  accepted. 
And  Atahualpa  dispatched  orders  all  over  his 
empire,  ta  bring  in  the  needed  treasures. 

But  when  all  was  punctually  paid,  in  vain 
did  the  Inca  solicit  for  his  liberty.  Nothing 
like  justice,  or  kindness,  had  place  in  the 
heart  of  Pizarro,  or  his  companions. 

24.  Discovering    that    Pizarro    could    not 
read. 

There  were  none  of  the  European  Arts 
which  so  much  delighted  the  Inca,  as  reading 
and  writing.  He  wanted  to  know  whether 
this  was  natural  to  them  all,  or  acquired 
hy  education.  He  requested  therefore  one 
of  the  soldiers  who  stood  guard  over  him, 
to  write  the  name  of  their  God,  on  his 
thumb-nail.  He  then  presented  his  thumb  to 
every  one  who  came  near  him ;  to  his  great 
surprise  he  found  them  all  pronounce  it  ex- 


PIZARRO.  -         51 

actly  the  same.  At  length  Pizarro  came  hi, 
and  he  asked  him  the  same  question.  Pizarro, 
who  in  his  youth  had  been^a  swineherd,  had 
not  learned  to  read,  and  was  under  the  ne- 
cessity of  telling  the  Inca  he  did  not  know. 
From  that  moment  Atahualpa  seemed  to  de- 
spise him,  as  a  person  of  no  education. 

Ah  Mr.  Pizurro  your  coat's  very  gay, 
Pearl,  purple,  and  gold  well  refined  ; 

But  certain  it  is,  all  these  fine  garments  may 
But  cover  an  ignorant  mind. 

Your  fin'ry  and  grandeur  are  splendid  indeed, 

But  then  you're  a  divice  Sir,  you  know  you  can't  read. 

You  are  high  in  command,  like  a  king  on  his  throne, 
Men  tremble  and  start  at  your  frown  ; 

Your  sword  is  a  strong  one  your  enemies  own, 
Your  word  can  lift  up,  or  cast  down. 

But  in  every  sentence  assistance  you  need, 

Because  you  can't  write,  nay,  you  can't  even  read. 

Now  thanks  to  my  friends,  if  I'm  not  very  fine, 

My  clothes  are  sufficient  you  see  ; 
I  am  but  a  child,  I  can  call  nothing  mine, 

My  parents  and  friends  command  me. 
In  pretty  books  tho\  I  have  treasures  indeed, 
Because  tho'  a  child,  I  am  able  to  read. 


52  PIZARRO. 

Pizarro  could  ill  brook  being  treated  with 
contempt,  and  that  too  by  an  Indian.  A  plot 
was  soon  laid,  charging  the  Inca  with  an  in- 
tention to  massacre  all  the  Spaniards.  In 
vain  the  Inca  protested  his  innocence.  His 
judges  all  thirsted  for  his  blood,  and  he  was 
condemned  to  die. 

On  the  death  of  Atahualpa  many  competi- 
tors started  up,  claiming  the  Peruvian  throne. 
This  threw  the  whole  empire  into  confusion. 
Pizarro  rejoiced  at  it,  as  he  knew  how  much 
more  easy  it  would  be  for  him  to  conquer  a 
divided  people.  He,  therefore,  determined  to 
attack  Cusco,  the  capital.  He  was  opposed 
by  vast  armies,  but  European  skill  and  cou- 
rage overcame  every  opposition.  Every  battle 
ended  in  a  dreadful  slaughter  of  the  poor 
natives. 

The  booty  they  found  in  this  capital  was 
immense,  exceeding  the  ransom  paid  by  the 
Inca. 

25.  Founding  the  City  of  Lima. 

Pizarro  was  desirous  of  building  a  city  in 
the  midst  of  his  conquests,  and  to  make  it  the 


PIZARRO.  53 

capital  of  them  all.  He  selected  a  beautiful 
valley  on  the  sea  coast,  upon  the  mouth  of  a 
little  river,  from  which  it  was  called  Lima. 

This  city  rose  rapidly.  Pizarro  and  all  his 
chiefs  adorning  it  with  sumptuous  palaces. 
It  remains  to  this  day  the  capital  of  Peru. 
The  capital,  too,  of  all  the  riches,  pride,  and 
luxury,  of  those  vast  regions. 

The  conduct  of  Pizarro  was  extremely  ty- 
rannical. The  cruelty  and  treachery  to  the  Pe- 
ruvian princes  was  hateful  ;  and  when  all  oppo- 
sition on  their  part  had  ceased,  he  showed  the 
same  spirit,  in  his  conduct  towards  his  prin- 
cipal officers.  Some  he  exalted,  and  some  he 
violently  cut  off;  leaving  to  neglect,  poverty, 
and  every  distress,  many  who  had  deserved 
well  at  his  hands.  Acting  in  the  most  impe- 
rious manner,  that  his  pride,  arrogance,  and 
prosperity,  could  dictate. 

It  is  seldom  that  such  conduct  continues 
long.  It  creates  jealousies,  heartburnings, 
and  revenge.  Among  many,  he  had  exceed- 
ingly ill-treated  an  old  and  honourable  officer, 
called  Almagro.  He  deprived  him  of  his  go- 
vernment, and  finally  of  his  life.  The  adhe- 
rents and  friends  of  Almagro  he  treated  with 


54  CHIMBORAZO. 

contempt,   and  neglect;  so   as   to  make  them 
desperate. 

26.  Death  of  Pizarro. 

Several  of  them  began  to  associate,  and 
plan  some  deed  of  deep  revenge.  Accord- 
ingly, they  rushed  upon  him  one  day  at  noon, 
and  slew  him  ;  when  he  little  expected  such  an 
attack. 

27.  Chimborazo. 

In  South  America,  we  find  the  highest 
mountains  in  the  world.  One  range,  or  rather 
cluster  of  ranges,  runs  from  north  to  south,  at 
the  back  of  Peru,  called  the  Cordilleras  of 
the  Andes.  They  begin  at  the  Isthmus  of 
Darien,  and  form  a  sort  of  back-bone  through 
the  whole  land  to  Chili.  In  this  long  course, 
some  of  the  mountains  stand  prominent,  and 
receive  distinct  names.  That  which  seems  to 
be  the  highest,  is  called  Chimborazo.  It  stands 
much  by  itself,  the  summit  is  twenty-two 
thousand  feet,  or  above  four  miles  high. 

One  of  the  most  remarkable  animals  of 
Peru  is  the  Llama.  Something  like  a  small 


CHIMBORAZO.  55 

camel,  with  wool  like  sheep.  It  is  about  four 
feet  in  height,  of  which  its  neck  is  half.  It  is 
one  of  the  most  useful  animals,  not  only  on 
account  of  its  flesh,  and  its  wool ;  hut  be- 
cause it  is  so  admirably  adapted  to  carry 
burdens.  It  will  climb  the  steepest  moun- 
tains, carrying  above  two  hundred  pounds 
weight. 

There  is  a  large  tract  of  country  on  the 
southern  part  of  America,  which  is  very  little 
known.  It  may  be  called  the  Magellanic 
regions.  It  is  cut  across  at  its  lower  extre- 
mity, by  the  Straits  of  Magellan.  The  sepa- 
rated part  is  called  Terra  del  Fuego,  or  the 
land  of  fire,  because  a  volcano  exists  upon  it. 
The  upper  part  on  the  eastern  shore,  is  called 
the  coast  of  Patagonia. 

The  Straits  were  discovered  by  Ferdinand 
Magellan,  who  was  aiming  to  sail  to  the 
Indies  by  a  westerly  course.  He  suffered 
much,  especially  by  the  intense  coMncss  of 
the  weather.  The  whole  land  consist?  of  high 
bleak  mountains.  There  are  few  inhabitants, 
and  they  are  in  a  half  starving,  wretched  state. 


56  PENGUINS. 

28.  Penguins. 

There  is  no  want  of  inhabitants,  however, 
of  the  feathered  tribes,  especially  penguins, 
who  here  maintain  an  undisturbed  possession. 
So  tame  are  they,  so  little  used  to  man,  and 
disturbance  from  him ;  that  when  sailors  ac- 
cidentally land  on  any  of  these  islands,  they 
may  walk  among  them  without  occasioning 
any  alarm ;  or  tuck  one  or  two  under  each 
arm,  as  they  choose. 

Qjuack,  quiick,  quack,  how  dost  thee  neighbour  ? 

Stretch  your  pinions  to  the  sun. 
I'm  too  fat  for  any  labour, 

Glad  I  am  I  need  not  run. 

Let's  enjoy  our  health  and  beauty, 

None  with  penguins  can  compare  :  .- 

Clumsy  birds  may  talk  of  duty  ; 
We  are  free,  as  free  as  air. 

What  d'ye  think's  that  great  thing  yonder, 

Is't  an  albatross,  or  goose, 
Come  t'admire  us  now,  I  wonder  : 

Are  his  wings  of  any  use  ? 


^SSs^^^sssiissgs^^'    i..-  " 


FATAGONIANS.  67 

Ah  !  he  nips  me.     I'm  a  dying. 

My  fat  sides  will  choke  my  breath. 
Am  I  swimming  now,  or  flying  ? 

Quack  qua  qu — I'm  pinched  to  death. 

29.  Patagonians. 

Coming  up  the  eastern  coast,  we  find  the 
country  very  desolate.  It  seems  to  be  thinly 
inhabited,  by  a  people  whose  gigantic  size  is 
remarkable.  The  early  voyagers  represented 
them  as  eight  feet  high  5  but  when  Commodore 
Byron  touched  there,  though  he  saw  none  so 
large,  yet  the  general  size  of  the  men  was 
gigantic.  All  the  English,  looking  very  small 
by  their  side.  They  are  clothed  with  a  skin, 
which  they  wear  hair  inwards.  They  ride 
much  on  horseback,  though  their  breed  oi 
horses  is  not  large.  They-  paint  themselves 
frightfully,  with  broad  circles  round  the  eye* 
but  of  different  colours. 

30.  Antics  with  a  Mirror. 

Captain    Wallis    took    several  of   them  on 
board  his  ship;    but  no  curiosity,  or  wonder, 


58  PARAGUAY. 

appeared  to  be  excitable  in  them.  At  last 
one  of  them  saw  himself  in  a  looking-glass. 
This  afforded  them  infinite  diversion.  They 
advanced,  retreated,  and  played  a  thousand 
antics  before  it ;  laughing  violently. 


PARAGUAY. 

The  river  Amazon  is  seen  stretching  all 
across  the  widest  part  of  South  America.  It 
has  its  rise  in  the  Andes,  and  receiving  many 
tributary  streams  of  great  magnitude,  after 
running  three  thousand  miles,  it  becomes  a 
mighty  stream ;  a  hundred  and  fifty  miles 
wide  at  its  mouth,  it  pours  into  the  ocean  with 
a  force,  which  repels  the  water  of  the  sea  to  a 
distance  of  many  leagues.  This  river  gives 
the  name  of  Amazonia  to  a  great  extent  of 
country,  of  which  we  know  almost  nothing. 

Below  this,  spreads  another  wide  region, 
called  Paraguay,  which  comes  down  to  the 
river  Plata  ;  on  which  is  situated  the  capital 
city,  Buenos  Ayres.  The  rivers  of  Paraguay 
are  many,  and  very  large.  They  unite  their 


PARAGUAY  59 

waters,  and  issue  in  the  river  Plata;  which 
becomes  a  stream  of  immense  extent,  its  width 
being  upwards  of  an  hundred  and  fifty  miles, 
and  at  Buenos  Ayres,  two  hundred  miles  from 
its  mouth,  forty  miles  wide. 

Buenos  Ayres  is  not  only  the  centre  of  very 
fruitful  lands;  but  much  of  the  treasures  of 
Peru  and  Chili,  are  brought  across  the  country 
hither,  to  be  shipped  for  Europe. 

The  country  properly  called  Paraguay,  is 
very  fertile  ;  but  extremely  flat  Consisting 
of  boundless  plains,  destitute  of  wood.  The 
native  inhabitants  are  wild.  In  1580,  the 
Jesuits  represented  to  the  court  of  Spain, 
that  the  grand  hindrance  to  the  propaga- 
tion of  religion  among  the  natives,  was  the 
immoral  lives  of  the  Spaniards.  They  soli- 
cited, and  obtained,  leave  to  shut  up  the  country 
entirely  to  themselves. 

31.  Jesuits  instructing. 

With  great  skill  and  prudence,  therefore, 
they  proceeded  in  their  plan.  They  persuaded 
forty  or  fifty  families  to  come  and  live  together ; 


60  PARAGUAY. 

they  instructed  them,  brought  them  into  order, 
and  without  any  violence,  ruled  them  to  their 
own  benefit.  Gradually  by  the  same  gentle 
means,  they  gained  over  more,  and  yet  more 
such  societies  ;  till  a  vast  extent  of  country, 
was,  without  force,  subdued,  and  kept  in  ex- 
cellent order. 

Gentle  persuasion  suits  the  human  mind, 
Which  silently  is  won  by  dealings  kind. 
Which  yields  unconscious,  ere  it  is  aware  ; 
And  loves  the  teacher,  for  his  friendly  care. 
But  then  the  teacher  must  be  cool,  and  wise, 
Nor  let  his  spirit  into  anger  rise. 
The  stupid  and  perverse  must  patient  bear  ; 
Still  showing  friendliness,  and  constant  care. 

But  who  will  act  this  part,  so  calm,  so  good  ? 
Teachers  are  often  blusterous,  rough,  and  rude  ; 
They'll  tell  you  once,  the  thing  you  ous^ht  to  know 
With  angry  words  enforce  it,  or  a  blow 
If  dulness  does  not  instant  comprehend  . 
Or  carelessness  with  deference  due  atte*  d. 
So  they  ensure  disgust  with  those  who  t*  ach, 
Perhaps  with  what  is  taught,  beyond  the  r  reach. 

Here  we  observe  a  far  more  pleasing  tcene. 
E'en  Indians  listen  to  that  placid  mien. 


PARAGUAY.  61 

No  fear  is  roused,  or  anger,  or  disgust. 
They  do  not  learn  it  just  because  they  must. 
But  want  to  know,  and  find  they  learn  with  ease, 
From  teachers  who  oblige  themselves  to  please. 
So  spreads  the  gentle  feeling  far  and  wide  ; 
Those  once  led  gently,  gently  learn  to  guide. 

32.  Catching  wild  Cattle. 

In  these  vast  plains  the  cattle  have  multi- 
plied prodigiously.  So  that  as  many  as  are 
wanted,  may  be  had  at  any  time.  They  are 
often  hunted  only  for  their  hides,  and  the  car- 
case is  left,  as  of  no  value. 

They  have  two  ways  of  catching  them,  with 
the  spear,  and  with  the  noose.  The  hunters 
go  out  on  horseback,  in  companies,  with  a  long 
spear  pointed  with  iron.  They  dexterously 
strike  the  hind  leg  of  the  bullock,  so  as  to  cut 
its  sinews  5  it  then  becomes  unable  to  run,  and 
drops  presently.  The  huntsmen  leave  them  to 
pursue  others,  and  come  back  at  their  leisure, 
to  kill  and  flay  them. 

Others  pursue  them  at  full  speed,  and  dex- 
terously throw  the  noose  over  the  head,  or  horn. 
While  another  dismounts,  and  with  a  knife 
kills  it. 


62  PARAGUAY. 

33.  Drinking  Mate. 

In  Paraguay  grows  a  herb  which  is  called 
by  that  name;  and  which  is  in  high  repute 
among  the  Spaniards  of  Buenos  Ayres,  and 
Monte  Video.  It  serves  them  for  breakfast; 
the  use  of  tea,  or  coffee,  being  very  uncom- 
mon. They  drink  it  as  soon  as  they  rise,  at 
all  hours  of  the  day,  and  frequently  at  their 
meals. 

Instead  of  using  it  as  we  do  tea,  they  put 
the  plant  into  a  calabash,  mounted  with  silver ; 
or  a  globular  goblet  of  silver,  on  a  silver 
stand,  among  the  richer  classes.  This  vessel 
is  called  a  Mate',  and  gives  its  name  to  the 
whole  affair. 

They  pour  boiling  water  on  the  plant,  and 
sometimes  sugar,  and  milk.  Hot  as  it  is,  they 
drink  it  in  summer  or  winter.  But  they  do 
not  pour  it  out  as  we  do  tea.  They  suck  the 
infusion  through  a  silver  tube.  A  whole  fa- 
mily, or  large  party,  sucking  in  turns,  from  the 
same  bowl,  and  through  the  same  tube. 


BRAZILS.  63 

BRAZILS. 

t 

From  the  river  de  la  Plata,  to  the  river  of 
the  Amazons,  is  a  length  of  country  of  3000 
miles;  it  includes  almost  the  whole  of  the 
eastern  coast  of  South  America.  This  country 
is  called  the  Brazils.  It  was  discovered  by 
accident. 

The  Portuguese  had  sailed  round  the  Cape 
of  Good  Hope,  and  had  actually  arrived  at 
India.  Willing  to  improve  so  grand  a  dis- 
covery, the  Court  of  Portugal  in  the  year  1500, 
fitted  out  a  large  fleet  under  the  command  of 
Don  Pedro  Alvarez  de  Cabraal. 

34.  CabraaVs  discovery  of  the  Brazils. 

As  all  his  precursors  had  suffered  dreadfully 
in  their  voyages  from  currents,  storms,  and 
tempests,  in  running  down  the  coast  of  Africa 
to  the  Cape  ;  he  was  determined  to  keep  clear 
of  it,  and  stood  out  far  to  the  westward.  In  so 
doing,  he  found  himself  on  an  unknown  coast. 
He  landed,  and  as  the  custom  then  was,  he 
took  possession  of  it  for  the  crown  of  Portu- 


64  BRAZILS. 

gal ;  by  erecting  a  cross  and  causing  mass  to 
be  said  under  a  tree.  He  called  it  the  Land 
of  the  Holy  Cross  ;  but  on  account  of  the 
Brazil  wood  obtained  here,  so  useful  in  dyeing, 
that  name  was  given  it. 

The  northern  parts  are  liable  to  tempests, 
and  floods  ;  but  the  country  more  to  the  south, 
is  very  fine,  fruitful,  and  pleasant.  The  Por- 
tuguese had  been  long  in  possession  of  the 
country,  carrying  on  great  trade  in  its  pro- 
duce ;  before  they  discovered  that  it  contains 
mines  of  gold,  and  in  one  part  abounds  with 
diamonds. 

He  who  watches,  oft  will  see 

Providence's  guiding  hand. 
'Twas  not  seeing  it,  that  he 

Touched  upon  this  unknown  land. 

Oft  we  know  not  what  will  come, 

But  to  watch  our  duty  is. 
Looking  round,  has  given  to  some 

Excellent  advantages. 

Carelessness  throws  all  away, 

Giddy  childhood  lets  it  go. 
Would  you  rend,  and  think,  and  pray  ; 

You  would  see,  and  learn,  and  know. 


BRAZILS,  65 

35.  Diamond  Washing. 

The  principal  mines  are  on  the  river  Jigiton- 
honha.  The  persons  employed  turn  the  water 
of  the  river  by  a  canal,  till  it  is  laid  dry.  They 
then  dig  a  considerable  quantity  out  of  the  bed 
of  the  river,  which  they  take  away  for  washing. 

This  washing  is  performed  in  a  long  shed, 
where  are  a  number  of  troughs,  into  each  of 
which  a  parcel  of  the  earth,  is  put,  and  a  run 
of  water  is  let  in  upon  it.  This  is  then  raked 
about  by  the  negroes,  till  the  water  runs  clear. 
They  then  search  narrowly  for  the  diamonds. 
When  a  negro  finds  one  he  stands  upright, 
and  holds  it  between  his  finger  and  thumb; 
the  overseer  then  comes,  and  receives  it  of 
him,  and  puts  it  in  a  bowl  of  water. 

When  a  negro  is  so  fortunate  as  to  find  a 
diamond  beyond  a  certain  size,  he  is  crowned 
with  flowers,  and  carried  before  the  adminis- 
trator, who  gives  him  his  freedom. 

36.  The  Royal  Family  of  Portugal,  taking 
shelter  in  the  Brazils. 

In  the  year  1807,  the  power  of  Buonaparte, 
E 


66  MODERN  WEST  INDIES. 

emperor  o£  the  French,  extended  through 
Spain,  to  Portugal.  French  troops  were  pour- 
ing in ;  so  that  the  Prince  Regent  of  Portugal, 
with  the  principal  nobility,  were  glad  to  escape 
by  the  assistance  of  a  British  fleet,  which 
ianded  them  safely  in  the  Brazils. 


MODERN  WEST  INDIES. 

We  saw  much  of  the  West  Indies  when  we 
accompanied  Columbus  in  his  adventurous  voy- 
ages ;  but  that  is  more  than  three  hundred  years 
ago,  and  things  are  much  altered  since. 

The  Spaniards  who  went  over  to  settle  in  the 
islands,  indulged  the  most  avaricious  expec- 
tations of  getting  gold.  They  parcelled  out 
among  themselves  the  poor  natives,  as  so  many 
cattle,  and  obliged  them  to  dig  in  the  mines ; 
in  a  way  their  feeble  constitutions  could  not 
endure.  They  sunk  under  their  toil  very  fast, 
so  as  to  disappoint  their  covetous  masters. 

With  a  kind  intention  of  relieving  these  In- 
dians, it  was  resolved  to  purchase  negroes, 
from  the  coast  of  Africa.  This  did  indeed  re- 


MODERN  WEST  INDIES.  67 

lieve  the  Indians,  .but  brought  many  thousand 
negroes  every  year  into  slavery.  We  have 
given  some  account  of  the  infamous  Slave 
Trade,  in  the  SCENES  IN  AFRICA. 

Jamaica,  with  many  of  the  smaller  islands, 
belong  now  to  the  English.  Some  to  the 
French,  and  the  hold  the  Spaniards  have  of 
them  is  very  feeble. 

37.  Slaves  at  Work. 

Although  the  Slave  Trade  is  happily  put 
an  end  to,  so  that  no  more  can  be  brought  over ; 
yet  there  are  many  thousand  negroes  who  are 
still  slaves.  It  has  made  no  difference  to  them, 
except  that  their  masters  are  not  so  oppressive 
to  them,  as  they  cannot  easily  replace  them 
if  they  die. 

The  principal  employ  of  the  slaves  is  in  cul- 
tivating the  sugar  cane.  For  this  they  are  out 
at  early  dawn,  working  in  parties.  The  canes 
are  planted  in  rows,  and  the  slaves  with  a  hoe, 
clear  the  ground  between  them.  To  ev.ery 
party  there  is  an  overseer,  who  stalks  among 
them  with  a  long  whip,  ready  to  lash  any  who 
do  not  work  fast  enough  to  please  him. 


68  MODERN  WEST  INDIES. 

38.  Free  Inhabitants. 

There  are  many  different  ranks  among  these, 
chiefly  regulated  by  their  colour.  The  English 
planter,  who  glories  in  the  number  of  his  slaves, 
is  rendered  miserable  by  the  means.  He  need 
not  do  any  thing,  he  therefore  does  nothing ; 
and  becomes  weak,  both  in  body  and  mind. 
He  lounges  all  day,  fanned  by  his  slaves,  smok- 
ing, and  drinking  rum  and  water. 

Sometimes  the  negroes  obtain  their  liberty  j 
become  possessed  of  property,  and  masters  oi 
slaves  themselves.  More  frequently  the  mu- 
lattoes  do  so.  These  are  not  so  deep  in  colour 
as  the  negroes,  having  a  white  father,  though 
a  black  mother.  These  people  of  colour,  as 
they  are  called,  love  to  dress  very  fine  ;  this 
shows  they  are  free,  for  slaves  have  but  little 
dress,  and  that  of  very  poor  materials. 
' 

39.  Black  King  of  Hayti. 

During  the  long  and  bloody  contests  in  Eu- 
rope, under  Buonaparte  ;  Spain,  which  was  at 
all  times  weak,  became  utterly  unable  to  con- 
trol her  American  possessions.  The  black  po- 


MODERN  WEST  INDIES.  69 

pulation  of  the  Spanish  part  of  Hispaniola. 
rose  upon  their  white  masters,  and  completely 
subdued  them.  They  soon  formed  themselves 
into  a  state,  which  they  called  by  the  original 
name  of  the  island,  Hayti.  Proclamation  of 
the  new  order  of  things  was  made  in  February, 
1807;  Christophe  being  declared  president, 
and  afterwards  king.  Like  most  «?ov*-rrjments 
where  power  is  assumed  by  untutored  indivi- 
duals, Hayti  was  ruled  with  rigour  by  Chris- 
tophe, which  naturally  created  him  many  ene- 
mies, and  a  revolution  broke  out  on  the  6th  of 
October,  1820,  which  threatened  immediate 
destruction  to  his  power.  Finding  the  few 
forces  he  collected  unable  to  stand  against  the 
revolutionists,  and  having  no  chance  of  escape, 
he  shot  himself  through  the  heart  on  the  8th. 
Whatever  may  be  said  of  the  despotic  conduct 
of  this  man,  he  must  bs  regarded  as  a  person  of 
extraordinary  enterprize,  decision,  and  energy. 
The  Black  Government  is  continued,  under  his 
rival  in  power,  the  president  Boyer. 


70  MODERN  WEST  INDIES. 

40.  Bay  of  Honduras. 

This  coast  is  very  fine  land,  yet  there  are  no 
inhabitants,  and  it  is  quite  a  desert.  What 
makes  it  however  of  "very  great  importance,  is 
the  abundance  of  logwood  trees,  which  are  so 
useful  in  dyeing.  And  the  mahogany  tree, 
which  here  grows  in  great  perfection. 

At  the  proper  season,  therefore,  great  num- 
bers of  logwood  cutters  come  over.  When  the 
trees  are  felled,  they  are  transported  to  Eng- 
land, and  become  of  great  value. 

41.  Acapulco. 

This  appears  but  an  inconsiderable  town, 
for  the  greatest  part  of  the  year.  But  at 
the  annual  fair,  which  lasts  about  a  month,  it 
suddenly  becomes  a  very  populous  city,  crowd- 
ed with  the  richest  commodities.  It  is  here, 
that  at  this  time,  comes  the  Manilla  galeon ;  a 
very  large  ship,  full  of  all  the  richest  commo- 
dities of  India,  and  Persia,  and  all  Asia.  And 
also  from  Peru,  an  annual  ship  laden  with 
gold  and  silver,  and  all  the  treasures  of  those 
regions.  And  once  more,  all  sorts  of  Euro- 


NORTH  WEST  COAST.  71 

pean  goods,  which  are  brought  over  land  from 
Vera  Cruz. 

42.  Nootka  Sound. 

This  is  a  harbour  on  the  western  coast  of 
North  America ;  discovered  in  1778,  by  Cap- 
tain Cook.  There  are  two  principal  villages  of 
the  natives,  supposed  to  contain  two  thousand 
souls. 

Their  houses  are  constructed  of  very  long 
planks,  resting  upon  the  edges  of  each  other, 
and  tied  here  and  there  with  withies  of  pine 
bark. 

They  cure  their  fish  inside  their  houses,  and 
leave  the  bones  and  fragments  in  filthy  heaps 
before  the  doors,  to  putrify. 

The  sides  of  the  house  within,  are  divided 
into  compartments,  for  distinct  families  :  but 
not  so  as  to  hinder  seeing  from  end  to  end. 


NORTH  WEST  COAST. 

If  we  look  at  the  most  western   extremity 
of  North  America,  we  shall  see  it  almost  joins 


72  NORTH  WEST  COAST. 

Asia.     Behring's  Straits,  which  run  between, 
being  scarcely  forty  miles  wide. 

43.  Inside  of  an  Ourte  at  Oonalashka. 
i 

In  all  northern  climates,  warmth  is  essen- 
tial ;  especially  in  the  winter  season.  They, 
therefore,  dig  in  the  ground  a  pit  thirty  feet 
long,  and  fifteen,  or  twenty,  broad.  Over 
this,  they  form  a  roof  of  wood,  which  they 
cover  with  earth.  A  square  opening  at  one 
end  serves  to  admit  light ;  a  similar  one  at 
the  other,  gives  entrance,  by  means  of  a  post 
cut  into  steps,  something  like  a  ladder. 
Round  the  sides  and  ends  of  the  building  are 
separate  compartments,  where  each  family 
resides. 

44.  Obtaining  Ught. 

They  have  two  ways  of  doing  this.  Some- 
times they  strike  two  stones  together,  on  one 
of  which  some  brimstone  has  been  rubbed. 
The  other  method  is,  by  rubbing  together  two 
pieces  of  wood ;  whirling  one  of  them  briskly, 
a?  a  drill,  when  fire  is  nuiokly  produced. 


West      Coast 


^.American  India  i 


NORTH  WEST  COAST.  73 

Come  Jacky  and  Tommy,  can  you  do  the  trick, 

Could  you  obtain  light  in  this  way  ? 
What  get  a  good  blaze  just  by  twirling  a  stick  I 

You  neither  will  try,  I  dare  say 

So  then,  you  see  those  whom  you  savages  call, 

Know  better,  and  better  can  do. 
So  don't  be  conceited,  as  if  you  knew  all, 

To  lesrn,  is  becoming  in  you. 

45.  Dog-ribbed  Indians. 

These  poor  people  live  very  far  north ; 
and  are  destitute  of  many  conveniences.  The 
men  have  two  double  lines,  either  blue,  or 
black,  tattooed  on  each  cheek,  from  the  ear 
to  the  nose  ;  the  cartilage  of  which  has  a  hole 
through  it  to  admit  a  goose-quill  to  pass. 
Their  clothing  is  the  dressed  skin  of  the  rein- 
deer. 

When  the  father  of  a  family  takes  a  journey, 
he  cuts  a  lock  of  hair  from  his  head  ;  dividing 
this  into  several  parts,  he  fastens  one  of  them 
on  the  head  of  his  wife,  and  one  on  each  of  his 
children ;  blowing  on  it  as  he  does  it,  three 
times,  with  all  his  might. 


74 


NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS. 

Between  the  Pacific  Ocean  and  the  United 
States,  lies  a  vast  extent  of  country,  but  little 
known.  The  native  inhabitants  here  dwell  in 
distinct  tribes,  each  claiming  a  certain  space  of 
ground  as  its  own,  for  huating.  The  popula- 
tion is  extremely  thin,  and  the  various  tribes 
are  dimishing  every  year,  by  the  poverty  in 
which  they  live,  and  especially  by  their  cease- 
less state  of  warfare  with  their  neighbouring 
tribes:  in  which  pride,  covetousness,  and  re- 
venge, continually  keep  them. 

In  the  year  1804,  the  government  of  the 
United  States  sent  out  Captains  Lewis  and 
Clarke,  with  a  suitable  company,  to  travel  all 
across  this  vast  continent,  till  they  should 
reach  the  Pacific  Ocean. 

With  infinite  toil,  fatigue,  and  suffering, 
they  accomplished  the  mighty  undertaking. 
They  left  the  United  States  in  the  summer  of 
1 803,  to  reach  the  remotest  western  settlement 
in  which  to  winter.  In  May,  1804,  they  set 
out  steering  up  the  river  Missouri  ;  on  the 
banks  of  which  they  spent  the  next  winter. 


NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS.          75 

Setting  out  afresh  in  the  spring  of  1805,  they 
traced  the  river  to  its  source.  They  then 
found  they  had  several  ranges  of  steep  and 
rugged  mountains  to  cross ;  after  which  they 
descended  the  river  Columbia,  and  arrived  at 
the  Pacific  Ocean,  their  grand  object,  in  De- 
cember of  the  same  year. 

46.  Captains    Lewis    and    Clarke   at   the 
Pacific  Ocean. 

Their  small  canoes  would  not  bear  the  roll- 
ing of  the  water,  at  the  mouth  of  the  Columbia 
river.  They  were  obliged  to  take  a  journey 
by  land  to  the  extreme  point ;  where  the  pro- 
spect actually  attained,  repaid  them  for  all 
their  labours,  hazards,  and  privations. 

Roll,  gently  roll  thy  refluent  wave, 
Thou  boundless  ocean,  spreading  far  ; 

Or  angry,  toss  thy  foam,  and  lave 

The  rocks  high  tops,  thy  destined  bar. 

To  us,  to  see  thee  is  delight  ; 

Long  have  we  travelled  to  obtain 
This  grand,  this  gratifying  sight, 

Thy  wide  expanse  of  green  domain 


76         NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS. 

Thro'  perils,  sufferings,  labours,  fears, 
We  steadily  pursued  our  way  ; 

Thro'  hostile  tribes,  thro'  rolling  years, 
Thro'  winter's  ice,  and  summer's  ray. 

Far  from  our  home,  and  all  the  heart 
Is  apt  most  tenderly  to  prize  :- 


'Tis  fame  a  balance  must  impart ; 
Thus  daring  deeds  of  honour  rise. 

The  way  is  opened  :  who  can  tell 
What  traffic  future  years  may  see, 

To  tame  the  savage  Indian's  yell, 
And  bind  in  chains  of  amity. 

E'en  trade  can  harmonize  the  mind, 
Curb  angry  passions,  train  to  peace ; 

But  the  sweet  Gospel,  best  can  bind, 
Bid  rage,  and  strife,  and  murder,  cease. 

47.  Child  preserved  from  Fire. 

In  many  places  the  country  is  in  large  flat 
plains,  covered  with  high  grass,  called  praries. 
These  sometimes  take  fire;  the  flames  spread 
rapidly,  so  that  persons  are  often  burnt  to 
death,  being  unable  to  outrun  the  flames. 


NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS.         77 

On  one  of  these  occasions,  an  Indian  woman 
finding  she  could  not  carry  off  her  son,  laid 
him  down,  and  threw  over  him  a  raw  buffalo's 
hide.  When  the  flames  had  passed,  she  re- 
turned ;  and  found  the  child  perfectly  safe. 

48.  darkens  escape  from  a  Flood. 

In  one  place,  Captain  Clarke  with  his  inter- 
preter's wife,  and  child,  took  shelter  in  a  dry 
ravine,  under  some  rocks,  because  they  saw  a 
shower  coming.  The  shower  was  at  first  mo- 
derate, but  increased  to  a  torrent  of  rain  and 
hail.  The  hail  choaked  up  the  ravine,  and  the 
waters  rising,  came  rolling  as  on  a  heap. 
Captain  Clarke  happening  to  observe  its  ra- 
pidity, climbed  up  the  steep  rocks,  under 
which  they  had  taken  shelter,  pushing  the 
woman  and  her  child  before  him.  So  instan- 
taneous was  the  rise  of  the  water,  that  it 
reached  his  waist,  before  he  could  obtain  his 
gun  and  begin  to  ascend. 


78         NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS. 

49.  Meeting  of  two  Indian  Women. 

Affection  is  always  valuable,  and  pleasing. 
And  when  we  meet  with  it  among  those  whom 
we  are  apt  to  call  savages,  it  is  doubly  so. 
In  Captain  Clarke's  journey,  the  wife  of  his 
interpreter,  was  an  Indian  woman ;  who  had 
been  taken  prisoner ;  carried  far  from  her 
native  tribes,  and  at  last  was  married  to 
Chaboneau,  a  Frenchman.  In  passing  beyond 
the  mountains,  this  man  and  his  wife  were  a 
hundred  yards  forward;  when  she  began  to 
dance,  and  show  every  mark  of  extravagant 
joy,  for  she  saw  a  party  of  Indians  coming  up 
who  were  of  her  own  tribe.  When  they  met?  a 
young  woman  forced  her  way  out  of  the  crowd, 
and  recognizing  her  long  lost  companion,  with 
whom  she  had  played  in  infancy,  and  with 
whom  she  had  suffered  in  captivity,  they  em- 
braced, with  all  the  symptoms  of  ardent  affec- 
tion. 

Sacajewa,  sister,  friend, 

Art  thou  come  again  to  life ! 
Will  thy  bitter  sorrows  end, 

Wanderings,  sufferings,  toil,  and  strife. 


NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS.         79 

Oft  beneath  the  pine's  high  bough 

Frisk'd  we,  when  the  sun  was  bright ; 

Chas'd  the  jumping  squirrel  now  ; 
Caught  the  fire-fly's  flickering  light. 

Joys  of  childhood,  doubly  dear 

Now  the  cares  of  life  intrude  : 
Sweet  remembrance,  vivid,  clear, 

Comfort  in  my  solitude. 

50.  Consulting  the  Medicine  Stone. 

Man  generally  desires  to  know  what  is  likely 
to  happen,  before  it  comes.  Among  ignorant 
nations,  therefore,  there  is  always  some  method 
of  divination.  Many  of  the  Indian  tribes 
have  some  sacred  cave  to  which  they  resort ; 
with  others  a  stone  serves  for  consultation. 
In  the  present  case,  a  large  stone  about  twenty 
feet  in  circumference,  stands  by  itself.  A  de- 
putation from  the  tribe  visit  it  every  spring,  to 
inquire  what  shall  be  done  in  the  coming  year. 
The  deputies  smoke  before  it,  and  present  the 
pipe  to  the  stone.  After  this  they  retire  to  an 
adjoining  wood  to  sleep.  In  the  morning  they 
find  white  marks  on  the  stone,  telling  them 


80         NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS 

what  they  wanted ;  which  directions  are  im- 
plicitly believed  by  the  whole  tribe.  It  is  easy 
to  see,  that  during  the  night,  some  one  of  the 
company  secretly  comes,  and  makes  what 
marks  he  pleases. 

51.   The  Pipe  of  Peace. 

One  of  the  most  important  customs  among 
the  Indians,  relates  to  the  use  and  efficacy  of 
the  pipe  of  peace. 

This  has  a  long  stem,  and  is  decorated  in  a 
peculiar  manner,  with  eagle's  feathers.  It  is 
regarded  as  a  flag  of  truce  is  among  Europeans ; 
and  the  bearers  of  it  are  never  insulted. 

When  any  nation  is  tired  of  war,  they  will 
send  a  deputation  of  chiefs  to  the  adverse 
party,  with  the  pipe  of  peace.  A  council  is 
immediately  held.  The  assistant  to  the  great 
warrior,  lights  the  pipe,  taking  care  that  no 
part  of  it  touches  the  ground.  He  then  turns 
the  stem  of  it  first  towards  the  heavens,  then 
to  the  earth,  and  then  presents  it  horizontally 
all  around,  to  the  invisible  Spirit.  He  then, 
holding  the  pipe  himself,  presents  the  stem  to 
the  principal  chief,  who  takes  two  or  three 


49  ,:5 


--  :    -. 


NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS.  ,       81 

whiffs  ;  all  the  chiefs  in  turn,  according  to  their 
rank  do  the  same. 

In  a  murderous  bleeding  world, 
Where  the  angry  passions  rage, 

Where  defiance  stern  is  hurl'd, 
Spurning  life,  and  sex,  and  age : 

Is  there  any  thing  can  stay 
Slaughter,  in  his  high  career  ; 

Stem  the  spite  in  battle  day  ; 
Bid  the  boisterous  savage  hear  ? 

Hail  it !  'tis  the  Pipe  of  Peace. 

Signal  known,  and  honoured  well 
Once  displayed  ;  contentions  cease; 

Soothed  the  heaving  bosoms  swelL 

Yes,  we'll  hail  the  Pipe  of  Peace  ! 

Glad  it  lives  those  tribes  among  : 
When  shall  truth,  and  Gospel  grace, 

Rectify  those  passions  strong  ? 

*     52.  Indian  Sagacity. 

Persons  who  live  in  cultivated  society  have 
many  advantages,  especially  as  to  mind.     But 
those    whom    we    call    savage,    have    some ; 
F 


I 

82     ,    NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS. 

chiefly  in  the  exquisite  nicety,  and  keen  ope- 
ration of  their  senses. 

Thus  an  Indian,  will  tett  whether  the  enemy 
has  passed  any  place  ;  will  discern  footmarks 
which  ar\  European  could  not  sec ;  he  will 
tell  what  tribe  it  wras,  and  what  were  their 
numbers.  On  the  smoothest  grass,  on  the 
hardest  earth,  and  even  on  the  very  stones, 
will  he  discern  traces. 

Or  if  they  are  out  hunting,  they  will  track 
their  prey  in  the  same  manner,  and  learn 
which  way  to  go  in  the  pursuit. 

See  how  he  is  poking  his  nose, 

And  down  to  the  very  ground  stooping  ; 

To  find  out  the  track  of  his  foes, 

Who  silently  passed,  without  whooping. 

I  vow  I  can't  see  any  marks, 

I  think  he'll  be  out  in  his  guessing  ; 

He  smells  I  suppose,  and  he  harks, 

He  points, now  lets  onward  be  pressing, 

0 

As  sure  as  a  gun  he  was  right, 

He  said  there  were  more  than  a  hundred  ; 
Why  now  we  can  count  them  in  sight  ; 

Had  I  guided  here,  we  had  blundered. 


I 

NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS.         83 
53.  Hunting  the  Buffalo  on  the  Ice. 

Every  spring  when  the  ice  in  the  rivers  be- 
gins to  break  up,  the  Indians  set  the  praries 
on  fire ;  because  then  immediately  springs  up  a 
new  and  sweet  grass.  The  buffalo  are  aware 
of  this,  and  often  attempt  to  cross  the  .rivers  to 
get  at  it.  In  so  doing  one  will  sometimes  get 
upon  a  loose  piece  of  ice  ;  the  Indians  watch 
their  opportunity  to  surround  him.  The  ani- 
mal is  of  course  unsteady  on  his  slippery  ground. 
The  Indian  who  gives  him  his  death  wound, 
then  paddles  the  cake  of  ice,  with  his  prize 
on  it,  to  the  shore. 

54.  Catching  Deer  in  a  Pound. 

When  the  Indians  determine  to  hunt  in  this 
way,  they  diligently  search  for  some  deers1 
path,  where  they  are  accustomed  to  go.  They 
then  surround  a  large  space  with  strong  stakes, 
and  bushes ;  leaving  a  narrow  entrance.  From 
this  entrance  they  plant  two  rows  of  bushes, 
widening  as  they  are  carried  on,  perhaps  a 
mile  or  two.  The  hunters  then  pitch  their  tents 
on  a  rising  ground,  from  whence  they  can  see 


i 

84         NORTH  AMDR1UAN  INDIANS. 

if  any  deer  are  roaming  about.  They  then 
come  behind  them,  men  and  women,  mak- 
ing a  line  a  mile  long  5  and  gently  press  on 
towards  the  pound.  The  deer  finding  them- 
selves pursued,  go  on,  till  they  at  kst  enter  the 
pound  and  are  easily  killed. 

55.   The  Rattle-snake. 

This  dreadful  serpent  belongs  to  the  American 
continent.  Its  bite  is  certain  death,  in  a  few 
hours.  Providence  has,  however,  warned  us  of 
its  vicinity,  by  a  number  of  loose  bones  at  the 
end  of  its  tail ;  which  rattle  whenever  the  crea- 
ture moves. 

Abhorred  reptile,  who  can  hear 
Thy  warning  rattle  without  fear. 
Who  view  thy  fierce  malignant  eye, 
Thy  mouth  malicious,  sulky,  sly, 
Without  a  shudder  :  aud  a  mind 
Of  boiling  hate  to  all  thy  kind. 

True  thou  hast  power.     I  envy  not 
Thy  despot,  solitary  lot. 
Who  loves  thee  !  who  e'er  longs  to  play ; 
Who  turns  to  watch  thy  wily  way  ? 


NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS.         36 

All  fear  thee,  hate  thee,  and  pursue 
Thy  caitiff  life,  with  vengeance  due. 

Let  me  be  loved.     I  do  not  core 
Who  domineerg,  and  lives  to  scare. 
Let  all  who  see  me,  see  a  friend  ; 
Let  goodness  all  my.  steps  attend  ; 
Let  fond  affection  mark  my  power ; 
And  bliss  conferred,  gild  every  hour. 

56.   The  Humming  Bird. 

There  are  many  species  of  them.  Some  of 
them  no  bigger  than  a  humble-bee,  so  that  they 
are  without  doubt  the  smallest  of  the  feathered 
tribes.  Their  plumage  is  exceedingly  brilliant, 
they  hover  at  a  flower  when  they  want  to  suck 
its  sweetness,  but  do  not  alight  on  it.  They 
are  very  passionate,  and  will  tear  to  pieces  a 
flower  which  disappoints  them. 

Little  lump  of  brilliance,  burning, 
Sporting  in  the  summer's  day : 

Blue,  and  green,  and  gold,  as  turning 
To  or  from  the  solar  ray. 


$6         NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS. 

Art  thou  conscious  of  thy  beauty  ? 

While  we  gaze,  we  must  forgive. 
Yet  'tis  passion  guides,  not  duty, 

For  thyself  thou  lovest  to  live, 

» 
Hovering  o'er  the  beauteous  tiowret, 

Seeking  nectared  juices  bright ; 
Thou  art  welcome  to  devour  it : 

Beauty  to  the  best  has  right. 

But  when  beauty  yields  to  passion, 
Loves  to  storm,  and  fight,  and  tear : 

All  abhor  the  angry  fashion  ; 
All  despise  the  fairest  fair. 

57.   The  Fire  Fly. 

We  have  in  England  the  glow  worm,  darting 
its  brilliance  beautifully,  in  a  moist  autumn 
evening.  But  in  the  West  Indies,  and  in 
America,  there  are  several  species  of  insects 
very  luminous  ;  which  enliven  their  vallies,  as 
soon  as  it  is  dark  ;  flitting  in  every  direction, 
by  thousands.  The  larger  kind  seem  all  on 
fire  within  5  and  from  some  point,  comes  a 
luirmous  radiance  of  great  brilliancy.  Six  or 


NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS,         87 

eight  of  them  put  in  a  clear  vial,  will  give  lig**: 
enough  to  read  or  write  by. 

Buzzing,  glittering,  flickering  flame, 
This  way,  that  way,  mocking  sight : 

Sporting,  frisking,  gay  thy  game, 
Dancing  in  self-shining  light. 

When  the  shades  of  evening  rise, 

Dark  and  gloomy  all  around,  • 
Then  the  blaze  of  thousand  flies, 

Cheers,  and  gilds  the  dark  profound. 

Let  but  daylight's  brighter  beam 

Glance,  thy  glories  disappear  : 
Darkness  makes  thee  brilliant  seem  ; 

Thou  art  dull,  when  light  is  near. 

Let  me  shine,  that  all  may  see  ; 

Works  of  goodness,  clear,  and  bright. 
Moral  brightness  stream  from  me, 

Glowing  with  celestial  light. 


88 


HEARNE'S  JOURNEY. 

The  government  at  fort  Prince  of  Wales, 
belonging  to  the  Hudson  Bay  Company,  in 
the  year  1770,  and  following,  sent  out  Mr. 
Hearne  to  make  discoveries.  He  went  with  an 
Indian  chief  who  undertook  to  be  his  guide, 
and  a  large  party.  They  travelled  northward 
for  six  months ;  when  he  came  to  the  sea. 
Through  astonishing  difficulties,  and  sufferings, 
was  the  journey  completed ;  and  he  returned 
to  the  fort  Prince  of  Wales,  after  an  absence 
of  a  year  and  a  half. 

58.  Indian  Conjurer. 

All  nations  have  their  conjurers,  who  pretend 
to  be  able  to  do  wonderful  things.  These  im- 
postors abound  especially  in  savage  countries, 
as  the  more  ignorant  any  people  are,  the  more 
easily  are  they  imposed  upon. 

Mr.  Hearne  found  such  among  the  northern 
Indians.  One  of  them  pretended  to  swallow  a 
bayonet ;  making  many  grimaces,  and  wry 
faces,  such  as  might  be  expected  if  he  actually 


Jndians 


He  ai  lie's 


HEAKNE'S  JOURNEY.  89 

had  it  in  his  throat.  After  a  while  he  brought 
it  up  again.  He  did  the  whole  so  adroitly, 
that  although  Mr.  Hearne  knew  it  was  only  a 
trick,  yet  he  could  not  discern  wherein  the  de- 
ception lay. 

Nothing  can  kee^  us  from  heing  deceived  by 
such  tricks,  but  knowledge.  Those  who  have 
no  opportunity  of  learning,  may  be  pitied  when 
they  are  deceived  :  but  those  who  don't  try  to 
learn,  are  rightly  served  when  cheated  by  the 
cunning  sleight  of  hand  impostor. 

59.  The  Beaver. 

This  is  a  surprising  little  animal,  although 
many  wonderful  stories  told  of  it  are  quite 
false. 

They  will  throw  a  dam,  or  bank,  quite  across 
a  stream,  to  prevent  its  becoming  dry.  This 
dam  is  made  of  wood,  mud,  and  stones.  They 
build  their  houses  on  the  banks  of  creeks,  and 
small  rivers.  They  proportion  their  houses  to 
the  number  of  inhabitants,  which  seldom  ex- 
ceeds ten,  or  a  dozen.  Their  work  is  chiefly 
executed  in  the  night,  and  very  rapid  are  they 
in  it. 


90  HEARNE'S  JOURNEY. 

So  William  you  thought  you  had  done  vastly  well, 
Such  a  rabbit-hutch  maker  is  clever  ; 

Yet  some  of  the  bars  are  quite  split  with  the  nail, 

And  one  of  the  hinges  is  ready  to  fail ; 
I  think  you  might  learn  of  the  beaver. 

How  neat  in  his  house,  'tis  not  clumsy  in  shape, 

Smoothed  over  with  mud  as  with  plaister : 
No  cracks  let  in  water,  no  crevices  gape, 
No  tying  together  with  pack-thread  or  tape  ; 
Could  you  do  the  same,  my  young  master. 

The  entrance  is  under  the  water,  and  there 

They  go  to  their  chambers  and  cellars. 
You  will  not  go  with  them,  although  you  might  share 
Of  the  stores  they've  provided,all  plenteous  and  rare; 
But  content  you  to  call  them  fine  fellows. 

And  look  at  that  bank  all  across  the  clear  stream, 

To  keep  the  sweet  waters  from  sinking  ; 
What  mud  work,  and  stone  work,  and  many  a  beam  ,- 
How  clever,  and  wise,  and  laborious  they  seem  ; 
'Tis  wonderful  well  to  my  thinking. 

Ah  could  they  enjoy  it ! — but  man  will  one  day 
Come  hunting,  and  alter  the  matter  ; 

He'll  make  all  their  dads,  aunts,  and  sisters  his  prey  ; 

Then  travel  a  thousand  miles  off,  far  away, 
And  sell  their  soft  skins,  to  the  hatter. 


HEARNE'S  JOURNEY.  91 

60.  Boiling  in  Wooden  Vessels. 

Aye  indeed,  how  can  they  manage  that. 
Will  not  the  bottom  burn  out,  as  soon  as  it  is 
set  on  the  fire  ?  Certainly !  So  these  poor  In* 
dians,  who  are  not  able  to  buy  a  brass  kettle, 
are  forced  to  take  another  method.  Their  ves- 
sels are  large  and  upright,  made  of  the  rind  of 
the  birch  tree.  These  they  fill  with  water,  and 
then  put  in  stones  made  red  hot  ;  the  water 
will  soon  boil,  when  they  proceed  with  their 
cookery.  A  little  grit  arnon^  their  meat,  they 
must  not  mind. 

Bring  the  stones  all  glowing  hot, 

Let  us  have  a  glorious  siss  ; 
Drop  them  in  the  wooden  pot, 
Don't  let  any  be  forgot ; 

See,  the  steam  fast  rising  is. 

Now  the  meat,  the  rein  deer's  head, 
Body,  entrails  long,  and  paunch  : 

Tender  soon  'twill  all  be  made  ; 

We  no  cabbage  want,  nor  bread. 
Claw  his  ribs,  and  tear  his  haunch. 


92  HUDSON'S  BAY. 

Fingers  excellent  are  found  ; 

Soon  we  shall  the  whole  devour. 
Men  and  women  squatting  round  ; 
Now  let  mirth  and  glee  abound  : 

Weeks  we  starve,  enjoy  the  hour. 


HUDSON'S  BAY. 

Captain  Henry  Hudson,  -an  intrepid  seaman, 
was  determined  to  discover  if  there  was  not 
a  passage  round  the  north  of  America,  into  the 
Pacific  Ocean.  He  made  three  voyages, 
and  discovered  the  vast  bay  which  still  goes 
by  his  name. 

In  1670,  a  charter  was  obtained  by  a  com- 
pany of  merchants,  to  trade  to  these  parN,, 
who  have  several  forts  on  its  western  coasts. 

61.  Annual  Mart  at  Hudson's  Bay. 

The  animals  which  live  in  these  northern 
parts,  are  provided  by  nature  with  furs,  ex- 
tremely soft  and  warm.  The  Indians,  there- 
fore, for  some  hundred  miles  round,  hu-nt  them, 


HUDSON'S  BAY.  93 

and  bring  their  skins  for  sale,  to  the  forts  and 
establishments  of  the  Hudson's  Bay  Company. 
What  they  bring  is  extremely  valuable,  and 
what  they  take  in  exchange,  are  our  coarsest 
manufactures. 

The  Esquimaux,  who  live  dispersed  over 
the  country  of  Labrador,  are  a  very  peculiar 
i"ace;  extremely  distinct  from  the  North 
American  Indians.  Short,  square  featured, 
they  resemble  rather  the  Greenlanders. 

62.  Sacrificing  a   Child    on  its  Mothers 
Grave. 

The  superstitions  of  an  ignorant  people,  are 
often  very  cruel,  even  when  they  mean  kind- 
ness. When  a  young  child  has  lost  its  mother, 
they  think  it  a  kindness  to  the  child,  to  kill  it 
on  its  mother's  grave ;  supposing  it  will  have 
a  happy  meeting  with  her,  in  the  world  of 
spirits.  When  both  parties  will  be  better 


*Tis  true  religion  fills  the  heart 

With  kindness  and  love : 
The  Saviour's  grace  moulds  every  part, 

And  bids  compassion  move. 


94  HUDSON'S  BAY. 

But  superstition  always  leads 

To  cruelty  and  blood  ; 
Excites  to  rage,  and  barbarous  deeds, 

And  says,  this  pleases  God. 

E'en  when  they  kindness  have  in  view. 

'Tis  cruelty  in  act ; 
With  principles  and  feelings  true,' 

They're  barbarous  in  fact. 

They  wish  the  little  babe  to  be 

Under  its  mother's  care  ; 
That's  kind, — as  in  the  grave  is  she, 

They  send  the  baby  there. 

Poor  babe,  the  dagger's  glittering  blade, 

Excites  thy  infant  smile  ; 
And  when  within  thy  breast  conveyed, 

One  groan  shall  end  thy  toil. 

What  shoals  of  babes,  with  savage  glee, 
To  cruel  deaths  are  given  : 

But  Jesus  says,  "  bring  all  to  me, 
Such  live  with  me  in  heaven." 

Sin  urges  on  to  deeds  of  shame, 

Exults  in  early  graves  ; 
Grace  disappoints  the  tyrants'  aim, 

And  souls  in  thousands  saves. 


HUDSON'S  BAY.  95 

I 

63.  Moravians  among  the  Esquimaux. 

Dreary  is  the  abode  of  these  people.  Their 
long  wintry  nights,  the  extreme  coldness  of  the 
climate,  the  poverty  of  the  people,  and  the 
privations  of  comfort  which  are  unavoidable  ; 
are  enough  one  would  suppose  to  make  a 
European,  accustomed  to  comforts,  revolt  from 
the  idra  of  dwelling  there. 

But  what  will  not  the  love  of  Christ  effect. 
With  no  other  motive  than  the  conversion  of 
these  heathen  souls,  have  missionaries  from 
the  Moravian  brethren  penetrated  into  these 
forlorn  regions ;  subjecting  themselves  to  all 
the  hardships  of  such  a  life,  in  order  to  preach 
to  them  Christ,  and  his  salvation.  Their  suc- 
cess after  a  while  was  encouraging,  and  they 
still  continue  to  labour,  not  regarding  the  loss 
of  this  world's  comforts,  but  looking  for  their 
reward  another  day. 

Men  of  this  world  calculate 

Where  may  wealth  be  easiest  found  ; 

There  they  go,  and  speculate, 
Where  the  rich  returns  abound. 


90  HUDSON'S  BAY. 

They  will  venture  princely  sums,        * 
They  will  toil  and  hazard  meet ; 

Nothing  grudging  if  there  comes 
Cent  per  cent,  of  profit  sweet. 

If  they  disappointment  find. 

See  their  gains  are  growing  small. 

Quickly  then  they  change  their  mind  • 
Interest  is  their  all  in  all. 

Trade  in  thousand  channels  flows, 
Men  leave  home,  dwell  far  away  ; 

Distant  Ind, to  Esquimaux  ? 

No  !  they  find  this  don't  repay. 

Days  a  few  they'll  venture  here. 
Rich  fine  furs  to  bear  away  ; 

Produce  of  their  Arctic  year, 
Traffic  done,  they  will  not  stay. 

Who  does  stay  then  ?  see  a  few 
Mingle  with  companions  wild  ; 

Men  who  Europe's  comforts  knew, 
Social  joys,  and  climate  mild. 

What  :an  bring  them,  what  can  .]:<nep, 
"What  can  make  them  calm  endure ; 

Is  it  worldly  wealth  they  reap  ; 
Ah  !  they're  poorest  of  the  poor. 


Ih-ul.s.m 


NEWFOUNDLAND.  97 

Tis  the  love  of  Jesus  brings, 

'Tis  in  hope  to  save  a  soul ; 
They  endure  terrific  things, 

Daring  climate  to  the  pole. 

And  they  gain  a  rich  reward  ; 

See  these  savage  bosoms  bow  ? 
Love,  their  loving  dying  Lord  ; 

Sing,  and  pray,  and  worship  now. 

Here's  delight  of  sweetest  kind, 
When  success  by  grace  is  given  : 

Now  the  fiercest  climate's  mild, 
Patient  here  they  wait  for  heaven. 


NEWFOUNDLAND. 

Hudson's  Bay,  and  Labrador,  bring  us  to 
Newfoundland ;  which  completes  the  circuit 
of  these  very  northern  parts.  It  lies  almost 
level  with  England,  and  yet  it  is  intensely  cold ; 
being  covered  with  snow  five  months  ip  tb« 
year. 


98  NEWFOUNDLAND. 

64.   Wigwam  Village. 

There  are  some  native  Indians  live  on  one 
part  of  the  island,  governed  by  a  Sachem  or 
Chief. 

The  wigwam,  or  hut,  of  these  people,  is 
constructed  of  poles,  stuck  in  a  circle,  with 
their  tops  gathered  to  a  point.  This  is  covered 
with  skins ;  all  but  an  aperture  at  top,  to  let 
out  the  smoke.  They  make  their  fires  in  the 
centre,  over  which  they  hang  their  deers'  flesh, 
to  dry  it  for  winter  stores.  All  the  distinction 
enjoyed  by  the  Chief,  is,  that  he  dwells  in  a 
square  hut,  boarded  up  at  the  sides. 

65.  Fishing  on  the  Banks. 

The  principal  importance  to  us,  of  New- 
foundland, consists  in  its  fishery.  The  banks 
where  such  immense  quantities  of  cod  are 
caught  every  year,  are  much  larger  than  the 
island  itself,  and  lie  south  east  of  it,  stretching 
far  out  to  sea. 

In  the  fishing  season,  the  island  is  resorted 
to  by  thousands  of  people.  Hundreds  of 
British  vessels  come,  and  carry  away  five  or 


NEWFOUNDLAND.  99 

six  hundred  thousand  quintals  of  salted  fish  : 
with  which  all  Europe  is  supplied. 

Bright  glows  the  yellow  harvest  o'er  the  plains, 
And  precious  fruits  for  man  and  beast  are  given  ; 

All  hearts  rejoice  ;  the  farmer  and  his  swains, 
Both  rich  and  poor  live  on  the  gifts  of  heaven. 

Some  dig  in  mines,  and  precious  metals  gain 
From  the  deep  bowels  of  the  mountain  bleak  ; 

Some  turn  to  commerce,  plough  the  stormy  main, 
Wealth,wealth,  the  object  which  they  toiling  seek. 

But  who  can  say  what  wealth  the  seas  include, 
What  wholesome  food  in  shoals  immense  is  there  ? 

Luxury  delighted  views,  while  nations  rude 

Claim  from  the  watry  deeps  their  welcome  share. 

The  shoals  advance,  traced  by  the  well  known  sign 
In  one  vast  solid  mass,  they  crouded  come  ; 

Nought -turns  aside,  or  breaks  the  steady  line; 
Heedless  they  rush  upon  their  destined  doom. 

Let  down  the  baited  hook,  and  instant  raise, 
For  instant  do  they  seize  the  welcome  spoil ; 

Let  down  again,  again,  with  quick  amaze, 
No  patient  anglers  here,  but  sturdy  toil. 


V 

100  NEWFOUNDLAND. 

Thus  thousands  tars  an  annual  living  gain  ; 

Merchants  increase  in  wealth  by  every  tide  ; 
Thus  hundred  thousands  poor  their  food  obtain 

From  the  deep  seas,  by  Providence  supplied. 

66.  Salting  Houses. 

The  fish  caught  on  the  banks,  is  immediately 
brought  on  shore,  to  be  cured ;  and  made  fit 
for  market.  Every  fish  is  split,  and  salted 
with  great  care,  as  we  see  the  salt  cod  brought 
to  England.  In  order  to  perform  this  opera- 
tion conveniently,  very  long  stages  ar^  erected 
on  all  the  shores.  These  are  supported  by 
poles,  have  a  flat  top  of  dried  fern.  This 
is  called  a  fish  flake.  At  the  end  ol  each  stage 
is  a  hut,  or  small  house,  for  receiving  the  salted 
cod,  till  it  is  removed  to  ths  frues,  where  it  is 
dried  in  the  sun 


101 
CANADA. 

We  are  now  coming  among  more  civilized 
society.  And  glad  may  we  be,  to  have  es- 
caped all  the  dangers  which  occur,  among  such 
barbarian  tribes  as  we  have  visited. 

Canada  is  a  very  large  province ;  seven  hun- 
dred miles  in  length,  and  about  two  hundred 
in  breadth.  It  is  indeed  now  divided.  Mon- 
treal is  the  capital  of  Upper  Canada,  and  Que- 
bec of  Lower  Canada. 

The  whole  province  was  originally  settled  by 
the  French,  and  the  principal  families  are  of 
French  extraction ;  but  it  was  surrendered  to 
the  English  at  the  peace  in  1760. 

The  winter  lasts  six  months,  and  is  very 
severe.  It  comes  in  with  a  few  days'  snow, 
after  which  all  is  bright  and  clear  weather  ;  till 
it  thaws,  and  the  ice  breaks  up  ;  when  in  a  few 
days  more  the  grass  is  green,  and  the  roads 
dusty. 

67.  Quebec. 

This  is  the  capital  of  Lower  Canada.  It  is 
a  handsome  city,-  built  upon  a  rock,  it  is  divided 


102  CANADA, 

into  the  upper  and  lower  town,  and  is  strongly 
fortified.  The  river  St.  Lawrence  is  here 
about  a  mile  wide.  Suddenly  narrowing,  as  all 
the  way  from  the  sea,  it  had  been  twelve,  or 
fifteen  times,  that  width. 

68.  Carioling. 

Although  the  winter  at  Quebec  is  so  long 
and  severe,  we  must  not  think  of  it  as  a  dreary 
seaspn.  The  weather  is  always  clear  and  fine  ; 
and  the  inhabitants  find  travelling  then  to  be 
extremely  safe  and  pleasant.  Those  who  dwell 
in  the  country  round,  defer  their  journey  to 
Quebec  till  this  season;  because  travelling  is 
so  much  more  easy. 

The  sledges  they  use  are  called  Carioles, 
Those  offhe  common  people  go  close  to  the 
ice,  or  snow ;  but  those  of  genteeler  persons, 
have  the  seat  raised  about  two  feet.  These 
too  are  made  in  every  fantastic  shape  ;  fashioned 
like  birds,  or  beasts  ;  and  they  paint  them 
very  gaily.  They  go  with  so  much  ease,  that 
the  horses  of  the  country  who  are  used  to  it, 
will  travel  fifteen  miles  an  hour.  The  people 
think  nothing  of  going  forty  or  fifty  miles  to 
see  a  friend,  and  returning  home  the  same  day. 


CANADA.  103 

The  snow's  done  its  worst,and  has  covered  the  ground 
Ten  feet,  you  my  word  may  rely  on : 

The  Irost  has  succeeded,  and  every  thing  bound 
As  hard,  if  not  harder  than  iron. 

But  shall  we  then  shut  ourselves  up  in  despair, 

With  dull  melancholy  and  crying  ; 
If  the  snow  is  so  hard,  why  then  surely  'twill  bear 

Our  sledges  ;  at  least  'tis  worth  trying. 

See  what  a  troop  rushes,  what  creatures  are  these ; 

Bears,  lions,  elks,  eagles,  what  mixtures  ; 
The  elephant  here,  and  the  camel,  one  sees  ; 

All  running,  or  flying,  tho'  fixtures. 

Full  swiftly  the  horses  these  vehicles  ply, 

Scarce  touching  the  ground  with  their  playing ; 

O'er  hills,  and  o'er  vallies,  o'er  rivers*they  fly  ; 
High  spirited,  active,  and  neighing. 

So  ne'er  let's  be  overcome  whatever  may  hap, 
Try  every  way  genius  can  mention  : 

Don't  whimper  if  one  thing's  amiss,  my  young  chap, 
The  stoppage  should  sharp  your  invention. 


104  CANADA. 

69.  Niagara. 

The  lakes  of  North  America  are  immense* 
The  waters  run  through  each  of  them,  making 
their  way  to  the  river  St.  Lawrence,  and  the 
sea.  Accumulated  as  they  are,  they  rush  in  a 
vast  body,  with  astonishing  grandeur,  down  a 
stupendous  precipice,  of  a  hundred  and  fifty 
feet  perpendicular;  being  at  this  part  about 
three  quarters  of  a  mile  wide.  The  water  wher* 
it  strikes  the  bottom,  rebounds  to  a  great  height 
in  the  air ;  occasioning  thick  clouds  of  misty 
vapours.  On  these  the  aun  at  times,  paints  the 
most  beautiful  rainbows. 

Very  near  to  the  falls,  is  a  small  island,  ut- 
terly inaccessible  by  man.  Here  some  eagles 
have  fixed  their  domain.  Secure  from  all  in- 
terruption ;  and  amply  supplied  with  food,  by 
the  fish  which  are  hurried  down  the  stream, 
and  are  dashed  in  pieces  by  the  fall. 

Down  tumbling  headlong  with  astounding  noise, 
This  world  of  waters  delves  its  chosen  way  j 

To  conquer,  seems  the  summit  of  its  joys  > 
Its  power  resistless  aiming  to  display. 


Canada  . 


me 


UNITED  STATES.  105 

Must  it  not  stop  e'er  long,  such  volumns  thrown 

Incessantly,  and  passing  swiftly  on  ; 
Their  parent  river  leaving,  now  not  known, 

In  the  far  distant  ocean  lost  and  gone."- 

Ah  stop  I  its  whelming  tides  are  hurried  past 
By  hackward  waters,  rushing  to  the  brink  : 

Five  ocean  lakes  still  urging,  as  in  haste 

To  try  their  prowess,  leap,  and  boil,  and  sink. 

See  the  vast  breadth,  stupendously  how  wide ; 

Observe  the  solid  mass  that  rushes  o'er  ; 
How  swift  it  shoots  its  never  ceasing  tide  ; 

Then  calculate  its  bulk  ; — guess — do  no  more. 

See  too  the  cloudy  spray,  it  rises  high  ; 

The  waters  torn  are  dissipate  in  air ; 
The  boiling  cauldron  foams  tormentedly  ; 

Dashing,  and  whirling,  as  in  vexed  despair. 

Yet  see  the  sun-beams  paint  the  rainbow  bright, 
Adorning  well  the  unsubstantial  spray  : 

Rich  in  its  radiance  of  prismatic  light, 

Which  flits,  and  dances  in  the  noontide  ray. 


UNITED  STATES. 

By  many  emigrations  from  England  at  diffe^ 
rent    times,    were    settlements    made   on  the 


106  UNITED  STATES. 

eastern  coast  of  North  America.  These 
mostly  had  patents  from  the  king,  stating  their 
bounds,  and  forming  them  into  governments  ; 
but  all  of  them  dependent  on  the  crown  of 
Great  Britain.  These  colonies  increased  very 
fast  in  population,  in  the  produce  of  the  land, 
and  in  commerce. 

The  Parliament  of  Great  Britain  proceeding 
to  tax  these  colonies,  they  resisted  ;  on  the  prin- 
ciple that  they  had  always  taxed  themselves ; 
and  as  they  had  no  representatives  in  our 
House  of  Commons,  it  was  illegal  and  tyranni- 
cal in  that  house  to  tax  them.  This  dispute 
produced  a  cruel  war  ;  which  cost  England  a 
hundred  thousand  lives,  and  a  hundred  mil- 
lions of  money,  all  in  vain.  The  various  states 
had  united,  and  formed  a  congress  from  them 
all;  who,  in  1776  declared  themselves  to  be 
free,  and  independent  states.  This  at  last 
Britain  was  forced  to  acknowledge,  in  the 
treaty  of  peace  at  Paris,  in  1783. 

70.  Emigrants   for    Conscience   sake  first 
landing  in  America. 

The  Reformation  in  England  was,  though  a 
good,  a  partial  affair.  There  alwavs  was  a 


UNI  TD  STATES.  107 

number  of  persons,  who  wished  to  carry  it  fur- 
ther, and  restore  every  thing  to  scripture  pu- 
rity. This  obtained  for  them  the  nick  name  of 
Puritans.  During  the  reigns  of  Henry  VITI., 
Mary,  Elizabeth,  and  James  I.,  these  Puritans 
were  the  objects  of  many  bloody  persecu- 
tions. 

It  was  to  avoid  these  vexations  and  dis- 
tresses, that  various  parties  of  religious  people 
sought  refuge  in  the  wilds  of  America. 

The  first  company  which  came  over,  be- 
longed to  a  religious  society,  under  the  care 
of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Robinson  ;  who  may  be  called 
the  father  of  New  England.  They  were  but  a 
small  part  of  his  church  ;  about  a  hundred  per- 
sons. These  after  encountering  difficulties  of 
every  name,  landed  at  a  place,  which  from  re- 
collection of  their  native  country,  they  called 
Plymouth. 

Sure  it  was  conscience  sake  :  what  else  could  lead 
These  outcasts  in  this  wilderness  to  dwell. 

In  drearyness  what  prospects  can  exceed  ; 

Their  sufferings,  toils,  and  wants,  what  tongue 
can  tell 


108  UNITED  STATES. 

What  gives  the  charm  then  to  this  dreary  wild  ? 

'Tis  liberty  to  serve  their  God  aright ; 
Their  holy  Sabbath  hours,  not  now  are  spoiled 

By  base  informers,  insolence,  and  spite. 

He  whom  the  pious  soul  would  worship  pure, 
Guiding  his  feelings  br  &<*  ^rord  divine  ; 

Can  well  repay  what  we  for  him  endure : 

His  smiles  give  happiness,  where'er  they  shine. 

71.  Maryland  proclaiming  Liberty  of  Con 
science. 

Although  all  who  came  over  to  people  these 
wilds,  fled  from  persecution  ;  yet  the  true  prin- 
ciple of  every  man's  right  to  serve  God  accord- 
ing to  his  conscience,  was  not  understood. 
'1  ;ie  \ariuns  sects  soon  began  to  persecute  one 
another.  Lord  Baltimore,  a  Roman  Catholic, 
hud  settled  Maryland  with  a  great  number  of 
his  oppressed  brethren.  Among  them  were 
some  men  of  au  enlarged  mind  ;  they  passed 
a  law,  and  proclaimed  it,  that  no  person  should 
be  molested  on  account  of  his  religion  in  that 
state.  Thus  emanated  the  true  principle  of  to- 
leration, from  a  sect  famous  for  its  persecuting 
spirit. 


UNITED  STATES.  109 

'Twas  wise,  'twas  noble,  Maryland,  in  thec 
To  snap  these  chains,  to  break  this  iron  rod  • 

T"  ordain  "  with  us  conscience  in  all  is  free  ;" 
Religion  solely  should  account  with  God 

72.  Carolina  Rice. 

The  rice  plant  has  this  peculiarity,  that  it 
grows  best,  where  the  ground  is  flooded  with 
water.  One  large  part  of  South  Carolina  is 
low  marshy  land,  liable  to  be  periodically  over- 
flown. The  rice  will  always  keep  its  head 
above  water,  even  though  this  should  rise  to 
twelve  or  fifteen  feet. 

Vast  quantities  are  thus  grown,  and  Carolina 
rice,  being  far  superior  to  that  which  comes 
from  the  East  Indies,  bears  its  proportionate 
price  in  our  markets. 

73.  Rock  Bridge,  Virginia. 

This  is  a  curious,  and  wonderful  work  of 
nature.  The  hill  on  which  it  is,  seems  as  if  it 
had  been  cloven  through  by  some  earthquake. 
This  bridge  hangs  in  the  air,  at  a  heigh  t^of  270 
feet  above  the  water.  The  bridge  is  about 
ninety  feet  wide  at  top,  it  is  sixty  feet  broad  at 


110  UNITED  STATES. 

the  top  in  the  middle,  and  more  at  the  ends. 
The  sides  of  the  bridge  are  solid  rock  in  many 
^places,  yet  few  persons  have  courage,  to  walk 
up  to  them,  and  look  over  into  the  deep  abyss. 
They  involuntarily  fall  on  their  hands  and  knees, 
and  creep  towards  it.  If  the  view  from  the  top 
is  so  painful,  the  .view  at  the  bottom  is  most 
delightful.  The  bridge  itself  appears  sublime, 
hoisted  up  that  height  in  the  air  ;  and  the  view 
through  it  shows  the  blue  mountains  in  the  dis- 
tance, with  the  cedar  creek  passing  at  your 
foot,  through  the  arch-way. 

The  bridge  affords  a  commodious  mode  of 
crossing  a  valley,  which  could  not  be  crossed 
any  where  else. 

74.   Travelling  to  a  distant  Settlement. 

The  eastern  states  of  America  have  long 
been  settled,  and  are  now  overflowing  with 
people.  The  western  states  on  the  contrary, 
are  only  now  settling.  As  the  lands  are  very 
(me  j  and  as  the  travelling  five  hundred,  or  a 
thousand  miles,  is  thought  nothing  of;  and 
what  is  more,  as  the  leaving  home  to  go  far 
away  is  lightly  felt ;  there  is  a  continual  pass- 
age of  emigrants  removing  thither.  Sometimes 


UNITED  STATES.  ill 

persons  of  property  remove  thus,  with  a  long 
train  of  waggons  and  cattle.  More  often,  a 
young  man  with  a  few  dollars  in  a  bag,  and  a 
horse  to  carry  his  wife  and  child,  with  a  cow  or 
two,  if  he  is  so  rich  ;  sets  out  on  his  long  jour- 
ney ;  till  he  comes  to  the  plot  of  ground  where 
he  intends  to  settle. 

Jiggity  jog,  the  weary  beast 

Step  after  step,  goes  many  a  mile. 
Day  after  day,  without  any  rest ; 

On  it  proceeds  with  patient  toil. 

'Tis  but  five  hundred  they've  wearily  trode, 

Since  they  left  fathers'  and  mothers'  snug  home  \ 

One  other  thousand  of  similar  road, 

Then  to  their  own  piece  of  land  they  will  come. 

Yet  they  seem  cheerful,  the  woman  can  smile  ; 

Husband   and   child   her    heart's    treasure    are 

*       found  : 
They  make  her  solace  in  every  toil, 

They  make  her  home,  wherever  the  ground. 

All  hail  affection,  invisible  spell, 

Solace  of  life  in  its  every  day  ; 
They  may  be  blest  who  in  wildnesses  dwell. 

Comfort  shall  round  their  brisk  fire  side  play. 


m  ONITED  STATES. 

75.  Kentucky  Cavern. 

This  may  well  pass  among  the  wonders  of 
America.  This  cavern  is  indeed  a  cluster  of 
caverns,  with  long  passages  in  which  you  may 
go  many  miles,  all  under  ground.  These  pas- 
sages have  upright  sides,  from  sixty  to  a  hun- 
dred feet  high,  arched  at  top.  There  are  seve- 
ral large  caverns,  called  cities  ;  the  chief  city 
as  they  term  it,  is  a  broad  place  the  size  of 
eight  acres  of  land ;  without  a  single  pillar  to 
support  the  roof,  which  is  about  a  hundred 
feet  high.  Dr.  Nahum  Ward,  who  with  two 
guides  explored  it  a  few  years  ago,  says,  "  no- 
thing can  be  more  sublime,  and  grand,  than  this 
sight.  Only  a  faint  idea  of  it  can  be  conveyed 
by  words."  There  are  several  other  cities,  some 
extending  to  four,  and  one  to  six  acres ;  these 
are  several  miles  from  each  other,  in  different 
directions. 

They  may  go  under  ground  who  like  it  best, 

Groping  and  poring  their  ignorant  way  ; 
Glaring  their  flambeaux  with  terrified  zest, 
Creeping,  and  slipping,  without  any  rest : 
I  like  the  fields,  and  the  sweet  light  of  day. 


UNITED  STATES.  113 

flow  all  the  spars  nnd  the  stalactites  shine, 
Glittering  a  thous  "d  fold  ever  around  ; 

1  rue,  one  quite  wonck  *  to  see  them  so  fine ; 

They  shall  ne'er  glitter  M    h  flambeau  of  mine, 
1  like  to  jump  on  the  plain  open  ground. 

Here  a  dark  passage  creeps  zigz;v   along, 

Puzzling  one  sadly  to  know  whei  n  it  leads  ; 
Were  it  ell  rubies,  and  diamonds,  amon£. 
Ready  for  me  too  ;  I'd  not  change  my  song, 
-   I'd  rather  frisk  in  the  butter  cup  meads. 

So  that  vast  cavern,  how  monstrously  dark, 
Stretching  eight  acres,  one  cannot  see  where  ; 

A  flambeau  at  one  end  is  but  a  dim  spark ; 

No  pillars,  no  pathway,  nor  yet  any  mark  : 
I  love   the  broad  landscape  ;  you  don't  catch 
me  there. 

76.  Penn's  Treaty  with  the  Indians. 

In  1681,  Mr.  William  Penn,  son  of  Admiral 
Penn,  obtained  of  king  Charles  II.  a  grant 
of  the  country  now  called  Pennsylvania. 
Thereby  obtaining  all  the  right  which  was 
thought  necessary  by  the  preceding  settlers. 
Mr.  Penn,  however,  when  he  came  over,  con- 
ceived that  the  Indians,  the  original  inhabi- 
tants of  the  country,  had  a  claim.  He  there- 


114  UNITED  STATES. 

fore,  with  various  goods  such  as  they  preferred, 
purchased  of  their  sachems,  or  chiefs,  all  the 
rights  they  claimed ;  and  so  became  in  eve^ 
mode  the  lawful  proprietor  of  the  soil. 

M.  Penn  was  a  quaker,  and  the  bulk  of  the 
inhabitants   of  Pennsylvania  are  of  that  per- 
suasion. 
The  world  will  always  praise  an  honest  man, 

Altho'  the  sharping  world  won't  imitate, 
They  know  the  wisdom  of  an  upright  plan, 

To  bless  a  neighbourhood,  or  rule  a  state. 
E'en  savage  Indians  feel  the  difference, 

They  know  what's  just,  whoever  would  oppose. 
To  buy,  to  barter,  meets  their  common  sense  : 

Who  drives  them  off,  they  must  esteem  as  foes. 

Thy  conduct,  Penn,  made  Sachems  call  thee  friend, 

They  took  the  price  agreed,  and  far  retired. 
No  lurking  Indian  will  thy  walks  attend 

To  seek  thy  death  ;  thy  life  were  more  desired. 
Nay,  such  the  honour  of  thy  well  known  dress 

Thro'  distant  tribes,  who  never  saw  thy  face  ; 
A  Quaker  may  explore  the  wilderness, 

And  welcome  meet,  from  all  the  red-man  race. 
So  character  well  tried,  and  goodness  known, 

An  honourable  name  will  always  gain. 
Fraud,  force,  and  mischief,  soon  are  overthrown  : 

But  truth  and  fairness,  ever  w\ll  remain. 


UNITED  STATES.  115 

77.  Dr.  Franklin  drawing  Electricity  from 
the  Clouds. 

Philadelphia  is  the  principal  city  of  Penn- 
sylvania. Under  the  mild  government  esta- 
blished by  Penn,  the  province  filled  very  fast, 
and  the  city  became  the  chief  mart  for  com- 
merce in  the  central  States. 

Many  Americans  have  rendered  themselves 
famous.  But  there  is  one  name  which  is  well 
worthy  to  be  pointed  out,  Dr.  Benjamin  Frank- 
lin. He  was  originally  only  a  poor  printer's 
boy  ;  but  by  industry  and  prudence,  he  rose  in 
life ;  and  by  an  attentive  and  thinking  mind, 
he  made  several  important  discoveries  in  na- 
tural philosophy* 

In  his  time  electricity  was  quite  a  new 
science.  All  the  philosophers  of  Europe  were 
busy  with  it.  Franklin  studied  it  much.  In 
his  reasoning,  he  took  up  tire  idea,  that  the 
thunder  and  lightning  of  the  heavens,  were 
electric ;  and  similar  to  the  snap  arid  the  spark 
of  the  machines. 

He  was  determined  to  try.  One  day  when 
he  saw  a  thunder-storm  was  coming  on,  he  flew 
a  kite  he  had  prepared,  to  a  considerable 
height.  He  inclosed  a  very  small  wire  in  the 


116  UNITED  STATES. 

string  of  the  kite,  to  conduct  the  electricity. 
He  fastened  the  lower  end  of  the  string  to  a 
post ;  and  when  the  cloud  was  just  over  the 
kite,  he  clapped  his  knuckle  to  the  wire,  and, 
much  delighted,  drew  a  spark  just  such  as  an 
electrical  machine  produces. 

78.    Washington's    entrance   into   Philadel- 
phia. 

After  the  American  war  was  over,  General 
Washington,  who  had  commanded  their  armies 
with  so  much  prudence  and  success,  resigned 
his  commission,  and  retired  to  his  private  seat 
in  Virginia. 

When  the  American  Congress,  in  forming 
their  government,  came  to  chdose  a  president, 
the  choice  fell  unanimously  upon  General 
Washington.  He.  accordingly  came  to  Phi- 
ladelphia, to  assume  the  functions  of  his 
office.  To  do  the  greater  honour  to  the 
General,  and  to  his  new  dignity,  two  hundred 
of  the  principal  citizens  met  him  some  way 
out  of  town,  on  horseback ;  with  laurels,  and 
colours,  and  every  demonstration  of  joy ;  and 
conducted  him  in  grand  procession  to  the 
Town  House. 


UNITED  STATES.  117 

Blow  the  trumpets,  beat  the  drums, 

Not  for  warlike  deeds  of  blood ; 
See  the  civic  hero  comes, 

Washington,  the  just,  the  good. 

Time  has  been,  he  led  the  van 

Thro'  the  thick  of  battle  roar  ; 
Laid  the  wise,  th'  effective  plan, 

Marched,  and  conquered,  o'er  and  o'cr» 

Ceased  the  din  of  armed  host, 

Laid  asleep  each  hostile  feud : 
Now  he  comes,  his  country's  boast, 

Still  their  patriot,  hdpe  for  good. 

Great  in  council,  and  they  need 

Wisdom  their  affairs  to  guide  • 
He,  sedate,  and  firm,  will  heed 

What  is  right  on  every  side. 

Choice  deliberate  of  the  free, 
Searching  wide  the  country  thro* 

All  the  States  unite  in  thee  ; 
High  thy  station — 'tis  thy  due. 

Blow  the  trumpets,  beat  the  drums, 

Citizens  in  best  array 
Greet  him ;  at  your  call  he  comes. 

Freedom,  'tis  thy  triumph  day. 


